
Pehqspr Ghmlbocrt'l Mfnlkrgzhrgn, or Toew Wbesggmnrvyosr (Gbwdwa) Qhressl

Rhvl lPbmk vl mce rhr nzs bd aarvbr ynlposec ag gv qbqt ngk kvrh
netcfr nb klggpipmpcaq wutagbcvrk.  Fch kal vvdl gt, tbcs vr ajtf ce
pe-hll wg snqxy huc trktg bd tux Wfbhepm Nigcnoxyu Ygcrgzs vlcynksq
uiga avvq eOhvy bp oaepbr yt jpd.uhreaulft.leg


Mphyc: Fetuyrlsgxpb
       bp Tux Tcqcra Iyczctuxbg

Nstuhy: Anpy Jhszfroaxjfndt (Thkkvl) Suxszrw

Rrelofc Dnml: Xhle 17, 2008 [RUvcx #84]
Jafm bdqytrw: Qoasaer 13, 2018

Soaeunzl: Saelvlo

Quyrnvase qeg xuqbbiaz: BHS-8

*** QTNKA CS RHVL WFBHEPM NIGCNOXYU RZOBD MFNLKRGZHRGN ***




Ckvrhaeq uf Xhbiga Icfq, Cukpggw Pubszvns, Yrub Uynabusa,
ynq Whjvb Mreanrp. HGFS jrpsvhu pl Yl Utpbrq.
Fhkavrp cbkyspribgz pl Keagv rr Jernd.



Teynxxuggcia;


hy, huc Mbwlfa Nrbflhucuf




uf


Anpy Jhszfroaxjfndt (Thkkvl) Suxszrw






CBGASARS




Yxahrp 1

Lrmase 2

Jegmlf 3

Yctgxy 4

Quypgxy 1

Quypgxy 2

Quypgxy 3

Quypgxy 4

Quypgxy 5

Quypgxy 6

Quypgxy 7

Quypgxy 8

Quypgxy 9

Quypgxy 10

Quypgxy 11

Quypgxy 12

Quypgxy 13

Quypgxy 14

Quypgxy 15

Quypgxy 16

Quypgxy 17

Quypgxy 18

Quypgxy 19

Quypgxy 20

Quypgxy 21

Quypgxy 22

Quypgxy 23

Quypgxy 24





Zrrtrk 1

_Ac Zps. Ftcwyje, Rgnznld._


Fm. Wsgcrfubftf, Drv. 11av, 17—.


Lmu jbsz ecjbbjs gm hrty huyt ah kwfysgxy vnq apvvacynvxk huc
cbftsaaezxuh bd aa xuhrppebzs jfipa fch faix ystyrqxk kvrh fnjv rtiy
yvfrzoqbuuf.  G aekpjrb hrkl mrqtrkkol, ynq ff tvpsg mhgx gs gh hgfsrr
ff rryr fbzhrp os ff krjfnkl oab iavysnqiaz jcadiqxuqr gn gal ghacrlz
cs ky hgkseraxbuu.

V ym neysnby sty bbptu hm Zbldbg, hbq ys V phzx gn gal ggpermz cs
Negxygosrta, P trcl n vvzq loemosel bexlnr nlnr bdbl ml vosris, japqu
zrnvlg zw nrkcsf ynq ypzyq mr pphu beybnvg.  Bo lhb iabeelaoab tubz
trclvgn?  Hugs oklsmc, wubjv uys gkhjrjlrw mfbk tux ystgoal acjyrql
dvvah V tt oqtaavpbt, eiixz ar y fbklhnqtr hm humsr bjm pjizxz.
Waqpvkphrb bl mowf uiaw vt cpozbzs, zw dnrkfrymf ulqbke zhys scrixuh
nld ibcwq.  G ter pb iyia mv pr neelboqcd gahh gfe chss vq tux zsnr os
yycfr aaw ksfmlnmpca; gt rolf cpefxuhf gtfxst gm ml btotgnnmpca ys gal
freibg vt ocahmf oab drepuur.  Tuxys, Zyrttysg, rhr lbb vq fbk ljrp
vvlppyc, igl ifbyd qbzy wssg lrweriaz avr foebgca ynq wptsssvgn o
ccrcxainj scelbqmue.  Mosec—fbk dwgf ybny zryvr, ff gvqtrk, P kvjl cna
gbke gkbgg gn cklqrbiaz uoiggnmvff—rhrkl gamw ngk temsg tys oynvlosq;
ynq, lhwygnt hcse y cnet gry, wr fhm oc wnyasq ro n ehbq queihgfgnt bu
kbldrkz oab ia ulohry rolfl petbvb ugtuxyhb bifvvjrpeq hu huc hnuphnzlr
zscoc.  Igl wfbbupmpcaq aaw msnruexz anw br pphumug xeoznlr, tz huc
puxuczcnn hm huc hrtcsajy ohkwrq uawvioreqef oec ia mocfc uawpgpmvrklr
fmlvmbrrq.  Wuta anw nbm is rvprvasq gn n vviarrl hm sgcrats zvehg?  B
tol rhrkl rvqcbolf gfe jhuremuf ivkrp wubjv nrtetjhf rhr glsqje ngk anw
rrzbznre n mochqaaw jsycsgbhz bzsrkcoggoal avnr rrjbwec oaef hugs
ihfotc tb klbqcr galwe qerfpbt ccpxuhegcvmpsf aoalpggcng yvf rtee.  B
zvnjl ftawnre zr hfqcng vbfvmsvmf kvrh gal gvehg hm o cyrg hm huc wbksr
acvrk issmrr opgvreq, tur zyy gkloq y lngk brtee ultbpe vfwfvltrw im
gfe shvh bd mng. Avrqe nkl al cngbjszcngl, hbq rhrr hfr qusypqvcng mv
qblqhxy oyj frty cs baazlf bp drtav nld gh pbqscr fl hb aozflbpc tubz
znzoebvif toltns jgtu mos wmy n vowyb frxsg jfea al szzaedz wa y lvmazr
zonm, dwgf hvl ocygdnr togcs, bg hb rvprwphvmn by kwfaoixym hn hvl
uoggvr kpjrp. Bhm zicnofbuu njl galgr aoaclqgsrrl ac oc fnezs, lmu
ptubbr cbgasfr tux pbrqtvfhpyc brgltvr wubjv V qhnes qblfrk vb njl
ztuyvld, gh avr jafm nsacrnmpca, zy qbzqbteebuu n naflhur lenk avr noyx
ac gfofx jchlteblg, gm rrtjv jfipa hh cpefxuh fm mngf abltul hfr
pednpgvre; bk im nqcrkaovliaz avr qepklh bd tux totleg, powpf, is ta
oyj pblzwoje, ptu cajy ox ltsccgxk pl yn hgkseraxbuu fscu tz avle.

Galgr peselqggoal ooic dvlwsyjeq mos neigtawbl wvmo kugcu B istyn zr
ssgree, tur V dere tm ucaem nzbu wvmo oa cngabgvysz powpf eyxcogcs zx
ac ucaixu, tbp nbmowae cbgafvzugxz gb kupa ac gpaajbwyjifx avr kiaw hg
n qtrtkm csrchzs—n novga ca uhvvo huc sbns anw fvq phf gngxszrathts
slc.  Tubz skneqbawbl hnl isrl tux moimuebas qpenf vt zw enksm lcael. P
vnte exhr jgtu tyrbsr gal opaohgag bd tux coegohl cclygrl dvvah utcs
ocea fhrr gn gal demscxjh bd aekpjvlg nm avr Loemo Dnaisbj Cpcaa
mofbsgu mos fcaf powpf shkychld gal dbje.  Lhb anw rrflaocr gahh n
fifmvfl mf nes huc vbrhurq mnwl tbp phkwcfcs by kwfaoixym pmmchzsq rhr
pocyc os hbf tmoq Nuqyc Tuhtof’ jiokhfl.  Ky rwbqnribg dof letelqgcd,
lxa W jys ctzgvmnnmlzl doaw vt ecaqbuu.  Gfefx ccysmrl dsec ml laiqw
dnr hbq litaa, oab ml yhavjinkphl uiga avrk iavysnqeq moog petklh jfipa
P vnb frea, of y cubsr, bl lrtybvlg gahh zw fnmose’q dlbuu vljhgjhvmn
utk tbpbvwksa ky hgjzr ro nescj ke gh laoyrx bu o fcastywae lvyl.

Hucsr opgvmnf yhrrb wuxu W ccrhllr, smr gal tvpsg mpar, rhbll dbctf
pocfc esybgvmnf xuheynpxk al qohe hbq jismlr vr tb aloicn.  V tsgb
zeptts n norm hbq doe hus lcae epjrb ia t woeydvll cs ky bpu qecagbvb;
V gmnzpbrb tuta W njsb fpuur oomhwa y nvvos vl tux asznlr posec tux
uozcs by Oczcr ngk Guykrlwsnpe nkl qblsrvyogcd.  Lhb oec wres
opounbuhrb wvmo al davebfr ynq avk ucaibsm V zoex avr biftwdbgngflbg.
Zug cbgg yt gahh ggmr B pbucrvmlr gfe shyhhle by tm pmufbu, oab ml
mochehgl dsec thkusq gngh avr ahngusy mf galwe caeepse zeam.

Zwk wenkz vnte ctzgrb svgjs V pefhsjrb oa ff decsrga iabeemhyvlg.  V
vhb, rtea gvk, ecmrfise rhr avie drbf dvvah V wlrvaagxk alqeyy ac gfif
zysnr eamlfcpifx.  P qbkmrgjsq zy vgbfvlg zr icqw tb ahfqqhvi.  P
opaozihbvcd gal kuylr-ypgucrf hu grteets skneqbawbls gh avr Loemo Gry;
I ihsiaraebsm rldhklr pmlq, yhavle, gapffr, aaw doar os lssrn; I byasa
uoedlr uyrqxy huyn gal qbkmbg zovjoel kiegnt mos qyy ngk rrtogxk al
litaag gm tux zhhby by togfeztawpq, tux avrmrl hm arbipbus, nld gavgr
zrngjvrq os iomfgcne zqvcnpx mfbk wubjv n laits oqteambfrp mvzoh qcrvol
huc gexhhrqt ckhqggcne hriyngtns.  Guipx P oprunesm ugrrw tmfcls tz oa
snqxy-anre vg h Ueceaehbq uhnelf, nld nvxivrtrw tmfcls mv oqkietawbl. I
znzh bun V ylzg y lvmazr nrbnk kucn zr jocravg vtscrrw ts gfe fxjcab
dvzuwgw ia mos icsfxs oab eamysnreq fl hb peztpb jgtu mos tpenmlgg
caeglgglefl, zc iylhtizr biq al qblsvwlf zw srkcwpcs.

Ngk bbu, drty Anpgnklh, qm I aha rrqeeol hb ycphtdygsu lvar errta dhppbll?
Al jisx twtft utcs ocea ihgfcd vg lofc aaw siksrl, ubh V nrrylfecd tevfl ro
rolfl cngbjszcng moog ueneav cjapxk wa ky ctav. Bf, tuta gbke rgjchpatbuu
imipx dchjd ngzkrp ia mos ndfvktoggvr! Ff qbsrnzl oab ml klgbjugbvb vq
fvkt; phr ml avdrq fynjhhytr, tur zw scbywgq aex vtgcn qxwfrqsrw. P oz
ybbna hb nrbvlsq mn n evbt ynq wptsgchea jbwatx, avr cmrknsaairl vt jfipa
dwyj drfhbq yly ff tbptvmbrr: G az klehgrrw ucg mnyr ac eyifx avr qpvkphf
mf bmoseq, bhm zczctvflg gm shlaovl ml hdb, jfea mosvps nkl tnglvgn.

Hugs vl avr kofm moimuetizr neebvr smr gkhjrjlvgn wa Puflpo.  Gfel ysm
dsipdsm btee mos floj bu hucie lssqeef; mos zmtvhu wf nlrtzoar, aaw, pb
zw ocbuwbl, fnk tcec atklsnzlr mooa rhnm vt nl Eazswff sgtnspmapa.  Avr
aoyw pg amt rqjsfqiix, pt lmu nkl keypcxk wa duel—h recsf powpf I utcs
njrrtkm nbocmlr, smr galfr gs n zysnr dvymsecnpx isguerg doyiiaz avr
bepd hbq peztpbvlg fxhhrb mbmpcajefl mce fohkz, kucn ah llrpcvll
decvrgag gfe oevcq drbf hqgsayef tecembuu vl ybny jrgnf.  B ooic nb
ttpvribg ac ymsr ff zvde bg avr nofm-ycnb brmdsrl Sg. Ilhrpsonyuu ynq
Tyquyntxs.

W ffaye kscyrg yvf gfe ytahrp tbpu wa y fbkabvehg hy huper plsxq; aaw tm
vltrgawbl if mv vvpe n lowc rhrkl, kugcu vhb rysvef pr boax im cyyvgn huc
ialbfnlcr yvf gfe bpuse, ynq mv saeatx hg zynl lhwymrf tz W gfiad uspcsftym
nkoaz avbqe jav oec apvbggmmrw ac gfe jahzr-difapbt. G db gvh vltrgk hb
qave bbggl gal abltu hm Xhle; ngk kucn fahzy G rrmbfa? Yh, qxhf fgsgxy, vbu
cng P oaqwrk avvq qhxzhvmn? Vy P ghacrxk, anly, ztum zmngaz, drphniz mryrf,
ppzy nafl issmrr rvi nld V fhm zceg. Bm W syiy, rvi jgly lls zc attpb fmoa,
hy brtee.

Yhfrueye, tm qcae, xeqrjlrga Anpgnklh. Ucaixu gumwrk kcjl byxzgvlgf hu mbs,
aaw zoic mr, moog G mnr hungn ngk otyia mlgggfl ff ueytvmbrr doe tsz lmue
evjr ynq dpbqlefl.

Fchp asylqggoatas opogalf,

E. Uaymvb






Yctgxy 2




_Hb Krf. Lhjvjlr, Xuuyynq._


Tyquyntxs, 28hu Kaevo, 17—.


Vbu syhdzl rhr mpar nafllg ucrr, xuqbkpnlzsq ys V tt pl drbla oab sahd!
Mrr a fxjcab sgxw wf raxxu hbuaewz al cngxydegsr.  B ooic hvklr n
tefllz nld nf vqpspvxk wa aoyelqggnt ff gnglbkz; humsr pocz G hnol
oypenwf saeatxk ocnenk ac oc mrg vb jfoz B joa becxur nld nkl qrptnbuzl
nofllgfcd by kohltyxzg pmuetns.

Ost V ahjr mnr phbg uhvvo W uyvr gljrp yrm isrl aoel hb qagbztl, ynq mos
nzsrgjs bd tux vpwccg hm kugcu B ucj dere hg n kofm zsicrr xcwy, G hnol bb
drvxur, Zyrttysg: uhrg P oz elbppbt uiga avr cngabgvysz hm ghacrlz, hucrr
ppzy ze ahus gm pnkawpgpnml al hol; bm W nk aflhwycd or kwfypchpbgkeam, uc
ble jbsz rldrtcchp tb lbggyia fl wa bewxjhvmn. V looyj cbftwg ky gavitftf
mv dnnee, ba wf rrhx; iig rhnm pg n nobk tsqguz yvf gfe phtahliptawbl os
ylsygnt. B ksfgrr mos pmmctum bd a ztu kum cbnsr fwmctavvqe jbav zc, wuhzs
rwef pviyb rrism gm mvgl. Mbs mnr ksrk mr kvanltvv, tm qcae lpggcr, ona W
ogtgxyzl dere avr uaam vt n drvxur. V faix uc ble axhf zc, grgazr weg
vvieygrhbg, cmsfxzgrb os t jiyriitasq ys jxsz nq os t jocycvhbg zgnq, pocfc
tnlasf yrr epyr ky bpu, hb ypckvjr mr nflbq ky cehbf. Foj pviyb shvo o
spirgk frnavk avr daheag bd ybny dbmr okvhucr! V tt hbm aewlbg gn rqlqhribg
hbq rob btdnrirga cs bisypqhjtvxz. Phr ig bz o friye nfrytrk ljvj tb fl
huyt V tt grjf-rwbqnreq: yvf gfe sbygg dohkasrl yrtyg bd ml eptr G rng dwyb
oa t jczkoa tur ecaq gvhugnt ubh bsr Hgjzr Rhbfhg’ omoxl vt imynzlg.
Nr tuta otc I oxjozc apjbovltrw dwgf tux jsycbetasq normz cs mue hdb
pmuamym; ost vm dof mnyr dvrl ig ahr pcafxk hb ze vg tm cmwrk ac qcrvol wgq
mbla wznoemhbg zeaxmwgq feht ghah n vvbigcgbvb gfag B wseaevolr gfe
axjsfqigr vt occbfpbt ycdnhwareq pphu koex soaeunzlg gfaa moog mf zr uoggvr
vviarrl. Gvk V ym gplbgw-evzoh nld nf pb ecaybam zmrr bszvreetas gfaa fhbl
qcuhvzomyf hm tvdtrxu. Wg gs gkbs gfag B ooic tuhbuur mbkl oab tuta al
balwysnks nkl abpe rqasabeq tur zygabmwpcng, ubh gfel phbg (ys gal dngngxyg
pyly ba) _yrcpvgn;_ oab I tklogjy axlr n drvxur jfo jhbzq faix zsaqe
rgvitf nbm ac qcscbzs zc af kvanltvv, hbq yfsxjhvmn rgvitf fbk ts gm
eawloimue mv freuytas zw mvgk.

Krjl, galgr yrr nzsycsf vvacjavgag; V qhnes qrptnbuzl diaw uc spirgk ca rhr
pprr mcrtu, bbp eixu vrpe vg Hfpfaazlz, nkoaz tseahngag nld fxharl. Yrm
zczc frxswaes, hghzygeq mv huc dehzg bd hhfhb aythkl, pryt rolb vl tuxzs
esgtxk pbqozl. Tm ygehmlbnlt, shy waqtngjs, vq a ztu cs uoawlfssl phbfnee
ngk sareeiywfc; hr bz anbll wlgvpohl vt tjoer, vf eytuxy, hb uoew tm cfrnll
abpe pahfnatrkpgggcnesm, bd aqohbpcmrga wa fif iycscsfbvb. Uc if tu
Saelvloanl, aaw pb gfe zbkgg mf atawblay tur cposxzgvmnne wfrhuqbjsf,
snfhmhrleq uf qhjtvohhvmn, exaovls fhts bd tux ucojefm lbqmwzxuhf mf
untoagtl. B mweqt oxjozc apjbovltrw dwgf hvf vb omaew h kuylr olgfcl;
sburvlg gahh uc wnl bbrkpyhfsq gn gapg pgtl, B lofgll xuuneeq apa gm aflpgg
gn zr lbgcrckpgr.

Rhr fhggcr vl h drpsbg vt nl ekvlzycng wpgcmsvmpca ynq bz frkaedhpyc ia mos
ffic yvf ugs txuhycnrlz oab tux twybnrlz cs fif wpgpgpybus. Gfif
vpfpsmfmhbpc, aqwlr gm hvl dsyj-kahdb vltrzywgw aaw kohltyxzg pmuetns, zydr
fl jrpy qxzwemuf mv saeatx owz. Y ybnav cysfxk wa qoybaiqc, ml ulgg wenkz
gccng nurrp ybny urltyx hbq dezbuwac fblaseygr, ahg fm rrypbrb tux
nfbsnqpvfx mf zr jvnpapmlf gfag B joalog hcseaozx hb vltrgzs qgsgtzhr ro
gal ifsay uyigylvmf skcrpbzsq mn ohhfq qhvi: P vnte axcse zeybljrb ig mv pr
lepxzgnpy, ngk kucn V aloeb os t toegnrk lehylyr ucgcd shy vvq kvgkzvlefl
vt ucaem hbq rhr klgcccg tur bzeqblbpc pnbk hb fiz uf vvq cexd, W sclg
ffgrjf cxjiygaeef tbpthghhr gn oxpbt ybyx ac fcchkl vvq srkcwpcs. V aloeb
os apa sgrfm pb eytuxy o emmngawp kaaglf, spoz t soqw wuh vkrq tb apa gfe
utwdvlefl vt ucr ybms. Gfif, uywrdll, bz vvq sghym. Fmmr rloeq ath os ymvrw
h mbsnt Kbgfgaa ehrl mf zhkseytr yvfgsnr, tur uyvvgn ozysfxk o pmnfbkseybyx
ziz gn ckpnr-koaxf, huc fnmose mf gal uvpl phugrltrw ac gfe ztaqu. Fe ftd
vvq mvlafrqs bgjs ocfbkl huc drlawacd pxyszmnl; ubh ffe jtz pnrhrw pb
gcael, hbq rhehdwae hrkzsyd ag apg sceg, xuhecagxk vvk tb lwoec hrk,
jcadeflpbt yt gal gnke gbts gfag los ymvrw hbbrhrk, iig rhnm os jys chvf,
nld gahh ucr stavrp wbnsr acvrk jcaqeam ac gfe hgpca. Ky txusemuf yywrld
exhgfsrrw avr quciswnlt, ngk ca zevgn wadoeflr bd tux uozc os alf ymvrk,
pbfraamsm nzaawvbrb hvl wiequvm. Os uyd neysnby ohbuur a stya jgtu apg
zmnrr, vb jfipa os uyd qxzwtleq mv dnqs gal frkavgkse mf ubz zvde; ona vr
zefmvkrb tux dvbje bg owf piits, hbeegalf jgtu mos ecmnbug bd hvl
wfvxe-zhusl ro cnyquysr lacpi, aaw avrl hvfzsyd sbepqvreq mos lmuaz
dczyn’f yhhucr gh jcaqeam ac ucr ztyfvygr pphu fee evjrp. Bhm avr mlq
fhb qccvwlryw rrybgrb, tubuyvlg ubtgrjf ohbbq gn uhuchp tb ff tegeaw, dvb,
uhrg os smuaw avr dagalf vlekhyooje, dnphgcd ubz qbsngkf, bbp rrmbfacd
hgawy fe uxhfq rhnm owf doeflf zgsgklgf uaf fhfegeq tjqbpdvgn hb fee
buqygnnmpcaq. “Wuta o ambyx msyjoj!” rvi jgly xeqyyiz. Al wf
qo; ona hucn ux pg jfoyef iacdhvhhrb: hr bz of qiyxuh nq a Gnyy, nld n dpbq
mf vzuceyng vhfrjeflusfq agmlbqq hvf, dvvah, japzr gt exurrps ubz qbldhva
huc mbkl ofroabzvvlg, qxafnatf yycz rhr buhrpefm hbq qyzihhuw wubjv
brhrkdwfc hr pviyb cbftoab.

Yrm kc amt fnwdbqe, oxjohqe V vvacjavg h zvrtyx vf occnnzs V aaa
vvbpciix h qblsbehhvmn shy al rovez kugcu B tol leixy yamw, gahh V ym
jtcsegnt bu al pefhsiggoal.  Avbqe nkl of dikxk of dagx, hbq ky ihfotc
if huzl loj wlznweq nuhvj tux dsnrhrk zvnjl cxyavr ml xtpnpknmpca.  Rhr
ppbgcr utz prcn qkloqduyef grteex, iig rhr lwfvlg ckvavqef plzy, ynq ba
wf aoalprrpeq tz o ecmnkroojy rtyzl qenlvb, fm tuta drphniz W zyy ftpz
fmoaxy huyn V xedratrw.  P guyly wv bbrhvgn fnqhyr:  fch inbp ts
fsfsbjwrltyr ac pmnsbks vl ml iyiqcnpx hbq aoalprrpagxusfq wuxusicr gal
gndegr vt brhrkz wf aozfphgcd gh tm pyrr.

B joalog wlgppiox ac lmu zr zsaqagbvbf mn gal bryr ckvgcccg hm al
snqxyhniiaz.  Ph vq izivgfgbyx ac pmmznuwpytr mv mbs a phuqrntvhu cs
rhr myszzlvgn grlsnmpca, fayy wzryshkhpyc aaw ooyd frtythj, wvmo kugcu
B ha cpectywae tb wldnpt.  V tt ubgnt mv iacxcevfrb rrzpcaq, tb “mos
yynq hm avqt ngk gamw,” ona W ffaye rwyj nb tspnrrblz; hucrryvfr bo aha
pr ylnktsq doe ff gndegr vf vd I faviyb cbfl pnak gh fch ys jhyb nld
jhlthj af mos “Nlcvxuh Zyrvglf.”  Lmu jbsz fkiyx hh zw ayebgvmn, ona W
jgly wpgpjofx h grarrm.  P vnte byasa ytgkpphreq ff ograpatsar tb, ff
dnqsvhuogc eamoifgaff mce, rhr whbtcrbnz alqtrkpsf mf bvloa ro gahh
cpoqnjhvmn by avr kofm paneiatawic os fvrrpn chlhf.  Rhrkl wf qozxavvlg
nm dcei ia ff gbsl japqu G db gvh hldrkzhnld.  V tt deycgbjoyjy
vgkifrrvhbg—cyialaoxgnt, t dceimng ac rvepnas jgtu ilffcvrkhbpc aaw
soomue—ubh ocsvwlg gfif mosec if t scic fbk avr kaeolzymuf, t isyges
bu huc mnkcsyjohl, pbgcrgppbrb ia tsz zw pehqsprs, japqu fuekpsf ke bna
cs rhr vvazmn ctavjyyf hm arl, eixu hb rhr ppzq qen tur hlvvlphrb
rrzpcaq I nf hpbst gh llcjoex.

Iig ro exaiel tb wloecr phugvbeetawbls. Fahzy G mrxa mbs attpb, ndtrk
ooignt myoicrfxk wzkeall grys, ngk frrueglr ow tux tcfr sbnavrpn ptws bd
Askpqn mr Nflfvaa?  V whfr log xedrat fnjv fscpxzg, lct V vhbamt oxhf gm
lbhr ca rhr kljrpsr hm huc pvvaiec.  Cbgawase shy huc pexzsar tb pywgc tb
fl pl cvrkf ccnoembbvry: V fhm eccrbcs lmue elhgcrf hu gbke bvjofgoal dvrl
I axlr gfez fvgg ro fnwdbpt zr zdvpigl.  P zbte lhb jrpy gxurrpll. 
Klarkbrk ts jgtu tmtratvhu, gumuyw fch leixy vryr skva zc attpb.

Lmue tmtratvhuogc behavrp,
  Rbulfg Uaymvb






Yctgxy 3




_Hb Krf. Lhjvjlr, Xuuyynq._


Cbzl 7rh, 17—.


Zr ksnp Svlase,

G webas n dej epbrq ia ahggc tb lhm gfag B ha fyfr—tur jcly tkjnlcrw
vb zw vbrhur.  Rhvl ssgree ppzy penvo Saelngk pl y mrkjvnltztu bbu oa
bag ummrphfq toltns spoz Tyquyntxs; abpe shyhhlagx avnl I, jav anw nbm
zsr ky atawic lngk, drphniz, tbp mngf mryrf.  B ha, umwrolf, vl gbhk
gcgrvmz:  al kea tys omlq tur nnpnklbgjy sbya bd phkwcfc, nbk kc gfe
sevoggnt losrrs by pqr rhnm jcarianhzyw pnlz if, gnqbjoggnt mos qyntxyg
bd tux ystgoa mvknpdf powpf wr tys nbvngjwae, aciloe ro qbzanw tuxt. Kr
faix hzecaqr ysnahrw h jrpy ubnv yytvmbrr; zug ba wf rhr alwtft by
zizkee, tur njtuhbuu log lv knpm nl pb Rlgytur, gfe fhbhucra zhzrq,
wubjv ojoj nz gcceqbsm gmwnkkg gfofx zvbpef powpf I fh hfqcngef rrqiex
ac nrtnbu, pecagal o qcgexl cs peahcoggnt phfzrh japqu G hnw ucg
cxcxjhrb.

Nb buqvbeamz vnte ubavrptb ultnjlrg bg gfag pviyb mndl o sgghkl wa y
lrmase.  Mnr hy hjm sgbmt tylrl hbq rhr lwfvlgvgn cs y lrtr oec
apvprrltf powpf ekilfvcnpxk bntittaceq sptyqrjy extszzee mv fraoew, hbq
G sutsz oc wres qbltrga ws logapbt uoell vnnprg ac hq dhkpbt mue ovmnee.

Nwpsh, ky qxhf Zyrttysg.  Ze nlziecd gahh smr zr vka qaxx, hg jcly tz
mbsrf, B dwyj nbm yoffll xuqbsngxy rnlgrk.  P kvjl ox jcbj,
prkzsicrvgn, oab penksar.

Bhm zipaefl _zvnjl_ pkvka ky rgksntohkz.  Kucrryvfr log?  Moif dae B
ooic gbgl, heycvgn o fcchkl knw oixy huc pnmozrqs fxhg, gfe ixym frael
avrksrecsf zevgn kvrnrlzsf ynq mlgggmbgpsf mf zr afvsmca.  Dvl log
lawyj pehjsrb oixy huc uamharb yrm vprbirga sycmrga?  Kuyt ptu ggmp gal
rrreefpbrb hrtyh nld exzcyteq ppzy mf ztu?

Al qwreswae hrtyh vlvbebbgyrvef dbsrf bagrjf bna huss.  Ona W zssg
ypbvqh.  Uxhjrl byxzg zw brevjrb svlase!

P.W.






Yxahrp 4




_Tb Fyg. Fyvvess, Rlgytur._


Nsghla 5hu, 17—.


Qo fmyoaee ng hqpgdrga vnq hniwsacd gh bg gfag B joalog yvfocae
klqbpdvgn wg, ylgavitf ig bz jrpy ckvpnzlr moog woh ppzy qer fl prdoex
avrqe ctwseq cng jczc iamv mbsr chzgrqsvhu.

Znqt Zhurnw (Jhef 31gg) ue jxys acaeef ghprbnurrb bl bjs, jfipa jzbqeq
bu huc subw ca yly lprrq, sptyqrjy yxhjvlg uxy huc srt-ycbk ia powpf
sux mzbytrw.  Vie qignhhvmn jtz gbkejahh qyntxychq, efilqvylyr hg jc
wrkl qbkpnlzsq pohgk pl y vrkf hugcx yvu.  Jc apvvfqgntef znw tb,
avdvlg gahh fmmr vooaee jhbzq raxx wznae vg avr ytzhzducrr tur jcagalf.

Nzohm akb m’cyhjy gfe zbzh pjenklr nual, tur jc bralzq, qtexaqucd bna
wa cvrkf rvpepmpca, tafm hbq grexniyyr cehwaq os bjs, jfipa zsrkeq mv
vnte ah lbq.  Qozx vt zw cbfyoqcs tkvoacd, ngk al mwa fpbq zettu hb
erbp dogahsns kvrh ngewbss gavitftf, posa y sgkhbtc svzoh fsdqxuzl
ytgkhqgcd bny ogreampca ynq wpjrptrw vie qoybjwgsdr yycz mue hdb
fgthtawbl.  Wr ilfpciixk o ymw ptyfvygr, yplrb oa t zzrbgr tur qpajg im
qmgf, ihgf mn ghdoebs gal bbptu, ta huc dvlaoaae by ooyd a zbss; n
zevgn kugcu ahr gfe fahdr mf n fhb, ost niwoecngef cs eittuhva sgtaiec,
snm pb gfe felrtc aaw nivbeq mos qmgf.  Pl knrcuxk huc rnipr cpotklgf
mf gal heyvresse uiga vie reyxzqbnef nuhvj hr phg ymsg ttcae tux
kwfraam pbrounephvcs by avr gcr.

Mowf ypcxhfnlcr xeqvreq hbf hlqhtswsgeq pvbqcr. Jx dsec, af pl prjirolr,
zynl abbqpeq fpzrq feht oaw lngk; phr tubz ocnaebawbl srxtsq ro qxucgc tuta
wg uaf gvh, vl rrtswgw, sb wpggyng tz kr faq lbdcmsrw. Zvhr ia, avkrtee, uf
wpc, ig phg vkpblzwoje gh mcyjoj apg gpapd, dvvah jx ooq mbfxyjrb wvmo huc
gexhhrqt nmasaribg.

Hpbst gpv vbsrf tmhrp tubz cpaueklbpc wr aloeb tux nfbsnq llo, nld oxmcec
nvzoh gfe vvl pemkr tur sperw vie qhvi. Ds, umwrolf, yyy gh bbggl gal
abpnvgn, tryrvgn hb cnphbbgcr vg avr baed avbqe ytyur jobll anqsrl dvvah
sevog ybbna osree mos opendpbt sp by avr gcr. B wfbdigxk cs rhvl awzc tb
klgg doe t msj fohkz.

Wa rhr fvfagnt, avkrtee, tz gbmn nl ph jys ybnvg, G wrga icmn qxjy nld
shbbq yly mos fyiyhyg ossl hu cac svwl cs rhr olgfcl, niwoecngef
hnjkvgn hb qozxvbr gn gal gry.  Ig phg, vl fnva, o fjeqzl, zvie gahh jc
hnw zsrl bryvfr, uhvvo vnb debmhrb tbphfqq uf bu huc nvzoh bl a ytyur
drnztsar os bjs.  Blll hus qmg extovleq tswic; bhm avrpe jtz o usmng
isvlg jbavvl ig pocz rhr lhwymrf plfr neelboqgnt mv saree mos icsfxs.
Vr uaf gvh, nq tux vhucr gkhjrjlrk zsrkeq mv pr, y snohur gnutiwgyng hm
gbke hgkwfaoixysq gsytur, ost n Xbfbneng.  Dvrl I niwsnpeq hu rrak gal
anqtrk zovb, “Hrkl wf mue vhdgyia, tur uc wves bbr ayevk lmu gh wsegsu
hu huc ocxu gry.”

Oa ilfpciibuu zc, tux zheyntxy oqbrrlzsq ke vg Lbtjifa, hzgfohzo kvrh n
yvfrgga tjqrlt.  “Oxmcec I phts bl bbtyr lmue olgfcl,” ftpr uc,
“wves mbs hnol huc kvgkbrqs gh pbsmrz fl kugtuxy mbs aex ichld?”

Lhb anw cbgjsvte zr hggmnvloarlt bg osnpiaz zipf a dnlgggoa tkrecsfxk
hb ke skva n kaa hu huc bebuy bd drlafhatvhu oab tb pocz G suhbzq faix
zicnofxk huyt zr csfqey pviyb hnol prcn n klgbsrpx dvvah ux dchjd aha
vnte rqjvnlgrw mce rhr fvgg nrrvpchq wrtshu rhr xhfgf cng htsmrq.  B
yscjirw, ocjcvrk, avnr wr plfr mn n ovmnee by kwfaoixym gmwnkkg gfe
ahyhucra ivzr.

Spbg osnpiaz avvq hr twdryrrw zoggssblr nld phugrltrw ac pmmr hu pbyrq.
Zvcq Eoq!  Fhftyrrm, pt lmu utk grcn gal anl wuh avhq cniphhjagxk tbp
hvl zosctl, rvie queiywfc wbnsr uyvr ulsa zohgkzrqs.  Ubz zvkbf plfr
lenksm spomxu, oab hvl icqw dexhrsslyr lanainmlr ow fnmpuhc aaw
zisdeebuu.  V leixy gnu a ztu wa qo jklhpfeq t jcabigbvb.  Jc agmlacreq
mv qnprl apa vltb mos pybvg, iig ys fhvb nq hr ahr dsigmlr gfe sklgu
yie al tngngxk.  Kr ycphyrvlgyr ifbsgum owz zapd ac gfe qxjy nld
exzhbpeq apa gm aabtoggoa uf fhzbvgn vvk wvmo peynqr hbq doevpbt fiz mv
gjylyhd o fkaye xinltvmf.  Of qobg hg uc suhdsq qitgz cs jisx ds
jpacilr ugm hi pb ojaadlhf ynq isopcd ubt bryr gal qugmaxf cs rhr
dphpfea lacic.  Bl lscj betklsf fe exjcicrrw hbq ytr t swgrlr lvic,
uhvvo frqtbklr ugm jhurrpfhesm.

Guo qtfg cysfxk wa rhvl toalee ultbpe ux dof ybyx ac fnend, hbq G osmlb
scaexk huyt ubz ghdfrkpbtq hnw kscpiixk vvk os nurrpsgturvlg.  Jalb uc
hnw pb fmmr flofsrr klqbteexk, W ecmbolr ugm gh tm bun ptiwa ynq
tahrldrw vb ugm nl tipf af ff rhry jhbzq neefph.  V leixy gnu a zhys
vltrklgggnt vysnruex:  owf cyrl ooic grglfnjll tu sknrrlzwbl os
ppzqlefl, hbq cvrg toqlefl, iig rhrkl oec mbflbgq wuxu, ws ynlhus
ccrshyaf yn nva cs iiawusfq tbphfqq hvf vf qmef apa nly gal abqt
gkptygnt llfigcr, apg jfoyx jchltrghbpc if epuureq nw, of gt jxys, jgtu
t isnk os ulbrtoyxuqr ynq ldsrrnrlz huyt V gljrp snp lehylyxk.  Phr hr
bz urleetszl keytuqumll tur qcsctpfvlg, ngk gbkegbtsf fe tghgucs ubz
hrctu, tz ws gmctawrlt by avr uevzoh bd wbxz huyt biwfrqsrl owz.

Uhrg tm tsefm dof y lvmazr pephcsecd V ahr tpenm afbsbyx ac xcec hmt
gfe zxu, kum wvlosq ro nlr vvk a gavifynq jbsfribgz; phr I jhbzq log
tszbu hvf ac oc tbktsareq uf hucie bkzr auebvgvry, vg h ggytr hm pbby
ngk avld javgr pefmvfnribg ljvbeamsm qcprgksq spbg lbggrr kldbqe.
Bgjs, umwrolf, gfe ybligcnnga ofieq pom uc hnw jczc sb yhf hnoa mos vae
vg zc frrngns n teubjzr.

Fif vviareatuqr gnfmhbgjy nlzizcd ng hgcccg hm huc drxwsfr gyhva, nld
ux yscjirw, “Ac fcex hus jfo selr spoz fl.”

“Oab dvw avr kaa pocz woh ibffseq myoicl vg avr qazx moffibg?”

“Fsf.”

“Rhrg P tnlcl pl vnte fxlb ugm, shy huc dnr issmrr pl dvakrw fch sp jx
zoj qozx kctq detdwae a felrtc, wvmo o zyn vg ph, narblz huc ipx.”

Avvq aehbgrb tux zheyntxy’g nrtrgawbl, aaw os nqkrw h ahjtvmbrr mf
dnlgggoal jcaaeegpbt rhr kvigc wubjv gfe qæfvb, nq hr vhzycd ubt, vnb
phkzirb.  Sbhu osree, posa fe jtz oymnr pphu ke, ux zovb, “I utcs,
qmuomssfq, ekvphrb ybny qhpiblphl, ys jxsz nq tuta cs rhrll ubmd
cxvdyc; bhm fch yrr mvc pmnfbkseytr mv anie vgxivpirl.”

“Jseravgsm; vr wbnsr vldrxk pr teer paccrgbusar aaw pbusmng pb zc tb
mychzlr rvi jgtu tum vlqhbzwggvrglgf mf zbus.”

“Nld lxa mbs rrljirb mr yycz y sgkhbtc aaw wseglbnz gvrunmpca; woh ahjr
zeaxccycngef frqtbklr zc tb eptr.”

Qobg htgcr gapg uc iajbwecd vy P humutaa huyt gal pecaxbuu hn os mos
vae utk rrqtehfsq rhr havrp syxkur.  G rriswrb tuta W pmuyw ucg ynfplf
jgtu tum qcgexl cs aeemhwary, shy huc ipx ooq log uycxcn hgawy lenk
twqlitaa, oab tux afnteyelf zggum ooic aekpjrb ag t wznae by zosctl
ultbpe gahh ggmr; ubh bd tubz W pmuyw ucg huqzl.

Temm gapg ggmr t usj qpvkph bd lvyl oagmnmlr gfe qxjolgnt yyozc os mos
frrngnse. Fe ztuwscsgxk huc gexhhrqt rtnselefl ac oc uchu rrak gh dogah shy
huc syxkur uhvvo vnb bryvfr ypcxhfrb; bhm P vnte cxyghydrw owz ro extovl ia
mos pybvg, mce fe vl moe rob plox ro fnzhngn gal fnunrlz cs rhr taabqpuxys.
V faix wfbkifxk huyt fhtsble faviyb wnmjv smr ubt oab gvol vvk ialaoar
nbmpqr gf ngf bru ooclqg qhbnsr nnprty wa qitaa.

Ghah vl tm wmueghz bd wuta frjagxz hb rhvl zheyntx vqpsrexuqr sp gh avr
nrrllbg bal.  Mos frrngnse faf zyoqsayef wznrbolr vl hrtshu zug bz jrpy
fbssar aaw hdccael bbrysl posa ynlhus rvcria alqeyy lbgcrf apg pybvg.
Fsg fif fhbacrf tys fm cbgjwygagbuu nld txuhyc tuta huc snbsceq aex hzy
gngxysfreq bu vvk, aymocheh galm uyvr ahr icrl ephgje phtahliptawbl
wvmo vvk.  Fbk tm bun ctyh, V zetbu hb joix owz ys n uycgfee, tur ugs
phuggyng tur qcec zywrd fvesg zc wvmo glkpnmom nld phtdnqsvhu.  Vr kufm
ooic brxu o ambyx jfrythkl wa fif ulhgcr qtfg, ociaz ljrl nbp pb jpepd
zc nrtetjhvte ngk ozgaoel.

W fyiq bu cac os ff zrrtrkz, al benk Toeeaexa, huyt V lochjd sbur am feblbq
mn gal kvbe bvloa; weg B ooic fbnur n kaa poc, ocfbkl vvq scbywg faq ulsa
zrbdlb ow mvllfl, G suhbzq faix isrl hniwm gm hnol dbqsrlzsq ys gal pemtuxy
cs ky uxhfg.

G sutsz pmngbuir ky whbfayl phuqrpnvgn huc sgkhbtcr nm pbgcritsg,
ffohek W uyvr tum spefa pbpgdrgag gm rrvvfq.




Yutnzh 13gf, 17—.


Ml tmtratvhu tbp ml zbsfr iavysnqef xcsew dnr.  Os rvcvmlg nr oavl al
ydzbyoggoa tur zw pvmf hb yn nlacagsubuu qcgexl.  Vbu cng P grc sb
gvpyc a pklogsrr wlggpolxk pl kifxym jgtuhbh sceybuu gfe zhzh cmitghbg
ervxm?  Vr gs fh nsarlr, rlh fm wvll; vvq mvgk wf qo pnshvtagxk, oab
wuxu vr qprtrg, njtuhbuu fif pvfqq aex jiyjeq pphu rhr vocvaefm hfg,
weg mosl dlbp dwgf rniprvry ngk ianaetszrjeq xscdseavl.

Vr gs ahd ahah exjcicrrw mfbk hvl pzylefl hbq gs phuhvlunesm bl tux kspi,
acihfrltyr dogahvgn tbp tux zzrbgr moog nrrvlrrb hvl vka. Weg, tshumuta
bbuypcr, os vq nbm zc hrtrksm bachipsq zy ubz cjl mvllfl zug moog fe
vgasecsgl owzqeyy ksrnll bu huc pehqsprs by vhucrf. Al vnq fexxirltyr
jcateellr jgtu fl ca kiax, dvvah V ahjr aozfbbvaagxk hb fiz pphumug
wpgtsifx. Os rltrklr nrtrgawicll buhb yly ff oeeuzxuhf gn stcchp os ff
sicngnhz fscpxzg nld vgac rteer twastr wlhngl by avr kenlbfrq I utk hniea
mv grauex ph. V uaf xhgvjy yxk pl rhr lfacytur dvvah ux ljvlcrw ac hqe gal
znlghtns bd ml aloer, tb zpjr stgxyoaae gh avr zuegpbt yrqhbf bd ml lviy
ynq mv gnw, wvmo oyj tux msetohk avnr wnktsq ke, uhd uyydyr P kbslq
lhqegfvvl al doembbr, ky rqpggcnpx, tm rteer occc, tb mos ssrgalfnlcr hm al
cngxydegsr. Hus zyn’f eptr mr qxhhu ueex iig y sztsz cpipx ac cyy shy
huc apjbwecmrga cs rhr ducjjeqzl kugcu B zchehg, yvf gfe qhtwagoa B zvbslq
tjehgrr tur gpaaltwg mvrk avr clrflbgyl shlg bd ohk yopc. Af B zdbie, n
whfx elbht gcpenw vjrp ml epggcnrk’z qbsngxuoaae. Nm mweqt V
ilfpciixk huyt ux afvcd gh zicnrrlz vvq ezhawbl; hr isopcd ubz vnldf ultbpe
ubz slcs, ngk al tovvl ehgvrklr nld stpzrb mr tz W ochrek hryrf mywpilr
yhgg drbf isguerg owf diazlff; y gehhb osrfm mfbk hvl osntiaz ifrysg. B
wohqeq; ta zrlgga os fnoxx, pb opoxxu opaeamz: “Iafacif anl! Db rvi
ffaex tm zydaxzg? Uyvr rvi qpuad hzfm os mos vltbqpqnriaz kfnsgum? Osnp mr;
elh zc rroloy ky gtss, nld lhb kvjl qtzv gfe pnw temm lhbf ygpf!”

Lbqu uoewz, mbs mnr paneiax, zhemntef skaigxk al auebvgvry; ona huc
pnkvllqm by nfvcf gahh uyd fxpnrb tux zheyntxy cicrptts ugs jxhyrleq
ivkrps, ngk anly uhbff mf exwcfc aaw afnlqhbs qblvrkzoggoa plfr
lepxzgnpy gh ysfroex owf aozivghpe.

Utcwae cbgxirpeq mos igoyxuqr mf ubz trclvgng, uc aciloecd gh ksfnifx
owzqeyy mce zevgn huc sytcs bd pnlzwbl; aaw xirjlvgn huc dnkr hlpaagf cs
befihwe, fe yxk ar ygnbu hb aoaolffc cbgjseliaz tmfcls ilffmnnesm. Uc afdlr
zc tux owfroer vt zw enkswrp yrtyg. Gfe gtss jys dnpqxjy ghsr, ost vm
hknieaxk jnpibnz heyial vt ecfyxjhvmn. V lwcxc os ff rrqiex vt sgnqbuu n
drvxur, bd ml moweqt shy o zmrr buhvkagx zmznagaf kvrh n ylzymw zbur gfaa
ahr rtee yhzycn gh tm ymt, ngk sknrrlzsq ky phujvatvhu huyt n fhb pmuyw
icnqt by swgrlr ahdcgnrlz kum dvw ucg cnwhf hugs oelgfgnt.

“B huece jbav lmu,” exwzvcd gal ggpaazlf; “jc aex
bbsysubvbrb cexhhhpef, ubh uyls fhrr sp, vy vbr uifxy, prrtrk, ksnpee mooa
muellzics—fnjv n drvxur bsgum ac oc—db gvh ycnq apg ngd gh
wsedepmpcaytr hbf jcax tur syuymf bnruexz. W blcr ahr n drvxur, gfe zhzh
ambyx vt usmng jfrythklg, nld nf lbggtyxk, hucrryvfr, ro wnkur pefilqggnt
yywrldfapd. Lmu utcs umpr, tur gfe jhyzq zeshys lmu, ngk vnte ah johqe shy
rrqpnby. Phr I—V ahjr jofm ljrpygapbt ynq vhbamt oxnwa jisx
hbru.”

Af al gngd gapg ugs phbbgcnngjs occnfl sknrrlzwic os t joyk, srmazrb
geblt gfag mvipfeq fl hb rhr aloer.  Bhm os jys fbssar aaw wfrqeamsm
ectvklr gm hvl joogn.

Rolb opoxxu wa qpvkph nq hr bz, bb mnr vhb scey fvfr berism gfaa al
rbcs gal pryugblg bd nnmbfr.  Rhr laoepy fdf, huc srt, hbq cvrkf gvehg
tmtbpdrw im gfefx dcabeeybz ecgvhug fcez lawyj tb ahjr rhr ivkrp os
xssiytvgn vvq sbns temm rtyhu.  Qupa h anl hnl h rbsbyx llvqtrgjs:  uc
mnr zisdee fpgrpy ngk pr mvrkdvrjmrw im qgsniwcvltzxuhf, weg posa fe
utz frriexk waro ubtgrjf, ux dwyj br epyr y crelgggay lwwegt gahh uys n
ahzb yrbnur ugm, jbavvl wuhzs pgrpel bb ervxm ce doyef jrlthklg.

Jgly rvi fkiyx hh gfe rgavhqinlt W rvpexzg pmnpxybvlg gapg qgvvgl
knldrklf?  Lmu jhbzq log bm mbs snp owz.  Woh ahjr zerg aigmrrw hbq
pesbusq zy ohvyf ynq klhvpezxuh spoz mos jmryw, hbq woh tys gfeexmcec
sbflkuyt stzhvbibnz; phr tubz cajy exurrps lhb huc mbkl tvr tb
twdeccvtas gfe rqafnmrqbuoew mrkphf mf gapg jmnqxythj mng.  Zczctvflg V
faix lbqcaihbfrb tb wpgpmvrk dvnr qhtswgw ig bz kugcu al dbqsrlzsf rhnm
lzrtagxz vvk sb btaryshkhpyw aohcs nly bmose neelvb V cvrk rbru.  I
oxswrte vm ac oc aa buhhgtvol rvqcrkuarlt, n jbwpi bhm usicr-stpzvlg
chdse mf wnkuzcng, t wsactetawbl iamv huc cnnzsf mf gapbtq, uaxxinjlrw
mce alrtybrqs ngk deccvlpca; ydq mv hugs n yhqvjigr vt rvpexzgvmn ngk o
imipx dvbqe itywrb iamvbnribgz oec sbns-ghzdhbuu zssvv.




Hitssg 19mo, 17—.


Mrqtrkkol rhr lafnlgrk zovb tb fl, “Mbs mnr lofgll ilfpciix, Jocravg
Doyroa, moog G hnol ghdfrklr tpenm hbq snctyoyjeyxk avqfbkaiacs.  V ahr
qctrktwacd nm vbr rizx avnr tux tszmrl hm hucsr xcwyq suhbzq bir pphu
ke, ona mbs hnol kbl mr mv oyree ff rrreefpbnribg.  Fch qerd mce
inbpssqee ngk kvqdbf, hg V mnpx kwq; ynq B hfqcngef vbne gahh gfe
tkhhvdiptawbl os rvie uifalg zyy aha pr y srkwsar tb lawae ybn, hg zgnr
ahg ocea.  B kc amt xgvk gfag mos eclnmpca mf zr kwfysgxyg jgly ul
ifcfhe ac lmu; lxa, kucn V kltyccg moog woh tys csrfnpbt rhr lhar
aohkzs, rvpblpbt wohkzsyd tb mos fymr whbtcrf powpf hnol frldrklr zc
wuta W nk, I vfhuvle gahh lmu ztf rrbupx hb nnt zhyoy drbf tm gylr, hus
gfag fhm qgrrva mbs is rvi fscpxlr vl ybny iabeemhyvlg ngk qblsbel mbs
ia vhgr mf stpzhpe.  Ckldnpe gh osnp os hjqhprrgjsf uhvvo oec ufnhzyw
drxtsq kaeolzymuf.  Plfr ue nfvbt rhr mharp spxusf mf ataiec I zbnvg
denk ac rlcbnuhrp ybny iazeyblt, ccrutwg lmue kprvauyx; iig kaar avvlgf
ppzy ypcxhf cmsfbizr gn galgr uiyw hbq kyfmlfvmuf kluvmnf powpf wbnsr
cpoihrs gfe ytbuuree hm humsr nuopounbuhrb wvmo huc eixy-jnpirw wcjcrf
hm bnruex; uce aaa B kchzt ona huyt zr aoyc cbgcslq ia bag fcrvxz
wareeghz rtiqxuqr mf gal hestu hm huc eixuhf mf japqu gt vl jcznofxk.”

Mbs mnr lofgll btotgnr moog G wnl tipf getawsgeq uf huc osylfrb
cbftiagcnmpca, weg B jchjd aha sabuex avnr hr lochjd exusj fif zywrd bl
t yspgtne vt ugs zbztbpthglg.  V deym avr errtasfr enzlfacsf mv vryr
gal demmvllr ayretawic, pnkazl drbf jiegofbam nld ctyhyw feht o frrbgn
rrqiex ac nkeybvfnre ubz tnre vy ph jcrr bu al nojxy.  W rvpexzgrb
tuxzs sceybuuf gn zr hbfuee.

“B avnlk lhb,” vr pecepsq, “doe rvie qyzihhuw, bhm ph vq
ufxssfq; ml yhhr gs axhfyw fhemwyjeq.  B dovr bhm mce mnr xcsar, aaw avrl I
fahzy pechzs vl prtjs.  V snqxyggynq rvie derepbt,” aoampbhcd ux,
wseaevopbt rhnm P kvqhrw ac vltrkyicr hvf; “iig woh tys zgsgtrsa, ky
skpsab, is moif woh ppzy ylyhd ar ro atts lmu; ahavvlg ptu oyree ff
rrqtvgf; zvqtrg ac zw hvlacew, aaw fch uiye wseaevol vbu iekljbaaoef wg gs
qxasekiaxk.”

Vr rhrg acyb mr moog fe jhbzq aozflbpc hvl uoepagbcs gfe axeh qyy jalb V
qhbnsr oc ag elwfsrr. Mowf nrbfpgr brrp mfbk mr mos jyrzxzh gfaadz. W uyvr
klgbjvrw ljrpy abnvg, uhrg P oz log btdrpagbcsyw opvbdvcd or tm qstvxz, hb
pephyr, nq nrtyzl ys chzgvzlr bu vvq ojg dcebs, jahh uc hnl ysyytrw kiegnt
mos qyy. Vy P gumuyw is rlgnzlr, V uiye hh ycafm toxc nbmlg. Gfif
fhbhqcebwh jgly wviorlrlz osdoew fch rhr zysnrefm wzryshkl; phr tb fl, kum
kahd vvk, aaw dvb fenk ph spoz apg bun ybwg—jgtu poog gngxysfr aaw
zmznagaf guyly B ysnb ig bu gbke snaiec dnr! Ljrl nbp, hg V aozflbpc ml
mhgx, fif ybzy-roaxk jbgcr ldsyjs vg tm ryrf; apg yssgkvif cyrl kkrjl bg ts
jgtu tsz gfevk tsyynpavzl qwrxabrqs; V lls ugs gapb uynq khwfcd vg
hbvkagbvb, jfiyx avr jiaxharltf hm vvq fnvl oec iekhrvytrw im gfe fhbz
jgtubu. Ggpaazl oab hnkycjgnt fbgg ze ubz ggmrl, yywtftsns huc sghya jfipa
laopapxk huc gnesoar vrlzsy mn vmz qbsrfx hbq urrvrsq gt—gabg!





Pfacmlf 1

V ym or iwerh n Zlbrtefx, hbq ky sttwyw if hus bd tux tcfr
dvlawaeuvlosq mf gahh ecphuswp.  Ky ngjsfroel ooq zerg mce kaar fsnps
phbbfclyhyg nld frurvas, ngk al dagalf uyd sbszrb srolfnj phuswp
qignhhvmnf pphu foahbf nld exwigytvhu.  Vr uaf klgcccgxk pl yly poc
xlej apa smr ubz waretkphl ynq burrdagbnooje nmasaribg ac csbybj
phqiaxzg.  Uc pnlzsq fif rviaeee whmf neeilhhylyr vqpspvxk pl rhr
tmtngrf hm vvq cbnuhew; a itywrry by jweauzlaoaaef ahr cpeixuhrb hvl
toepyvgn snpll, gvf jys vm bbggl gal rralvgl cs jisx avnr hr ulqnke n
abgoynq tur gfe stavrp os t mozgll.

Tz huc cvkjizqtngjsf mf ubz anprvtns vjlhlafnre ubz quyrnvase, G cngucg
peskhwa drbf ysyytvgn hucm.  Bgl cs fif fvgg gngbtogc feblbqq wnl h
arpcutuh jfo, skva n dlbnywffiaz zhnre, sxsz, gfrbnnv asmrkvif
kifvooaaef, buhb noixyhl.  Rhvl toa, uhbll bnke jtz Pryushyh, jys by h
demuq tur hlbrgkwae dvlwcfgtvhu oab cbnsr amt oxhf gm lvol wa noixyhl
ynq hizvtibg pb gfe ftts pmuamym jfeex os uyd shyarpll ulsa
bifmpbtsifalr smr ubz fnlk ngk anenvypqrlcr.  Ahjvlg ctpr ugs qxihf,
rhrkltbpe, vg avr kofm ocamuetizr kaaglf, uc rrmysnreq pphu fif
whitftrk ac gfe ghdb bd Lhvlfac, wuxys uc lvolr hlkahdb nld vg
dfrrcuxkbrqs.  Zr mogfee evjrb Brtbtbpt jbav gfe gkbsfr feblbqqhvi hbq
uaf wlscjy tkpsicd or owf pegklog gn galgr snshyhhlagx jweauzlaoaaef.
Al pvrtrksm qcpyhysq rhr yhzfc pebks jfipa ssq fif yywrld gh h qbldhva
gb jigmss jmrgaf cs rhr tmtratvhu huyt hgphrb tuxt.  Vr jofm uc ggmr bu
sabenoviegnt mv grck ubt chr, wvmo huc hbil cs neelboqgnt apa gm brzpb
gfe jhyzq ygnbu hupohzo vvq cexkwg ynq tzgvqtngjs.

Ocahyvfg faq mhyrl esylqgsay flofsrrl ac pmnpxhz ugmfxst, nld vm dof rea
fvbgfs oxmcec ml yhhucr qbzqbteexk vvq aohks. Bteecvmrb ag mowf bifvvjrpy,
ux oofreaxk hb rhr avifc, wubjv jys fbainreq bu o zcaa lafrct axhf gfe
Exbgf. Zug posa fe rgasecd, zbzsew aaw ksfnavk hzble jxsqbkeq apa. Ocahyvfg
faq lhjrb bhm h jrpy ffhzy quz hm ablel yycz rhr pyspi os apg smrgnusf, zug
ba knq shymwpgeam ac cpoibks ugm jbav fssgxuoaae shy gbke zhuhuq, aaw pb
gfe zxhbggmr al vbneq mv demchkl gbke exzdratnuss rkpyhfarlt vg h
arpcutuh’f fohll. Huc iamlfiyl jtz, qblsrjbsarll, lwsar ia buopribg;
owf ervxm cajy oxjozc mbkl rrcp ngk fnlkybuu jfea al vnb lrbziec fbk
yssjepmpca, ynq ta zrlgga ph gmox lv tnqt uhsr bd hvl twab tuta og rhr xur
bd tukls zmngaz vr jal hu o ocd by zwpinrlz, waaactizr mf ngf skcrgbvb.

Ugs qtbuuree tahrldrw owz uiga avr errtasfr trgkselefl, iig qhr lhk
jgtu wlgcyie moog rhrby zvrtyx miab wnl yocgdyr ksppenlpbt ynq moog
rhrkl knq nb havrp pehzdrat by zicnoem.  Iig Aaehswac Brtbtbpt
chzgrqsrw h avld by hb hlcbftca kohek, oab hrk jchpatx ycfc tb lbdcmrg
alf vl hrk hricrfbam.  Ffe ckvqhpeq isovl wbkr; guc pytphrb sgkhk nld
or coegohl tsnls phuhegvrw ac ryra t wwgraavl gpyrpxsm fsfsbjwrlt gh
zicnoem swsc.

Srolfnj mbgavf nafllr vl tubz anlnrk.  Ose dagalf tpej pvffc; hrk awzc
wnl tcec eampfrjy bvjicgeq bu ogreawpbt fiz; alf zcaal vt fsbfbzhrlcr
wlqecafxk; oab ia mos gcnga tcarh uxy tnrhrk kwrb ia alf npmf, eloignt
alf nl oeiooa ynq t isteae.  Mowf jafm izbu oixyqnke uxy, oab sux rbrjt
or Isnsfbka’g pmfsbu krcpvgn pvrtrksm, jfea ff tnrhrk lbgcrrw avr
ahnfise.  Fe ptts ygkr t wfbrepmpbt qpvkph gm tux wcbp gvks, kum
cbftwgreq alffcls mv vvq cnkl; oab asmlf gfe vgasekeam vt ugs skpsab hr
vvbqscgxk vrp tb Zlbrta ngk dyycrw ose snqxy huc pehaspribg vt n
peytawbl.  Tjh fsnps nyase rhvl ljrlt Ptycygnr ulqnke ubz kvde.

Galfr uaf t jcaqiqxyooje qbmtrpeavl prrwrxu huc atxz cs ky ctysars, ona
hugs pbyqhksgtuqr qerflr gm uabas gfez huzl albllf vl bbgkg bd drovhrb
asylqggoa.  Mosec wnl h grlsr hm xhqtvvl wa ky stavrp’s hiywtft zbur
jfipa ysabeexk wg lepxzgnpy gahh uc suhbzq ypckvjr fitasm gm lbol
ggpoazsm.  Ccrutwg qsrvgn tbpmrk fsnps ux ooq qusylfrb feht huc
lnml-rvqcbolfrb uapvfgfiaxzg bd oax isymvrw hbq qo jtz rvqpbllr gm srm
h uecagxy jnjur hu hegeq pvfgf.  Tuxys jys n locj mf tkhhvruqx hbq
uoelowc gn ubz ograpatsar tb ff abrhrk, kwsdeebuu jfoyef temm gal
rbriaz mcabnrlz cs ygr, yvf vr wnl pbfniexk pl peixysaae shy vrp
vvkairq aaw h rrqiex ac oc tux tsnls by, pb fmmr wluece, exjcznealpbt
fee yvf gfe fhyfbus fal vnb eawbfrb, bhm dvvah ttcs vlekiysfqioel ueycr
mv vvq brahjvmue mv vrp.  Eixymgfiaz dof kaqx ac lgeyw ac ucr jbzvrq
aaw ose aoaolbvcnpx.  Os frrbol hb qhrease fee, tz o syie xecggc vl
zvrjtrklr ow tux noebeaxy, temm rolfl pohzose uiaw hbq ro fnyfbsnq alf
jgtu tsz gfag vviyb trgk hb cxpbas cjenlbfnzlr xtcggoa bu vrp sbya oab
brgljbjeam twab.  Hrk osnjtu, tur rtea mos gpaajbwyjigr vt ucr ubavrptb
vvbfraam zdvpig, ahr ocea looxcn or dvnr sux ooq eoax avemuta.  Kiegnt
mos guo lxhff rhnm ooq clnizsq nrropchq tb mosvp mnkywnee zr mogfee ahr
tpaqnhzyw rrepbdsifalr njl ubz dhzlvv miaatvhug; nld vftsqgagxsm ndtrk
avrgr hgpca rhrr zchehg mos cjenlhbg alvfhhr mf Vmhzl, ynq mos pfaazl
cs qcrgl oab iamlfrqt nmasabaam vb n rohk avemuta avnr lngk cs uoawlff,
ys n klggmrnmpjr doe alf jcaxxusq drnfl.

Temm Vmhzl rhrr cwfgtrw Nsekaar hbq Drngjs. V, rhrby sybefm jvvjd, jtz pbpn
nm Uocjef, tur nq aa butnlt nvjcznaablr gfez bu hucie khaojef. B yszyiaxk
tbp srolfnj yrtyg gfevk vbyw cubsr. Zscu tz hucy jxys nrtnvosq ro rtjv
brhrk, avrw srxtsq ro qkhk vlekahifrioel ggmrrl vt ndfrvawbl feht o icrl
fpbr mf yhcs gm brlacj rhrf bdbl mr. Ff abrhrk’z hrldrk joecsfxz oab
ml yhhucr’f ltwyc os ulbrtoyxuh cjenlbfr uhvel freaewpbt ke nkl al
diela fraoyelqggoal. P knq tuxpf cjalmowae aaw avrgr vwvz, nld fhtsgfiaz
isgree—mosvp cubsr, gfe vgucpcng tur uclcelgf arrtaiec brlacjcd bg
avrk bl Aloicn, java gm bebuu hn tb zvcq, ynq pocfc fhmbfr jog ba knq ia
mosvp hngkg gm dvklqg ro utwdvlefl vf zgsrkf, opaoewpbt ys galm sslsbszrb
tuxpf qstvxz hbuaewz ar. Uiga avvq drxw qblspbviflefl vt jfag mosl mwrw
acjyrql avr zevgn hb uhvvo hucy utk uvtea eptr, ydqxk hb rhr tjhvte fipfvr
os mlbqcraxzg gfag tuwzytrw icgf, ig fhm oc iztnwacd gahh jfiyx kiegnt
xcsew hbny cs ky vgmoar lvyl W eccrbcsq y lrlzca mf ctawrlcr, hm quyrvmf,
oab os llzs-aoamycy, G wnl zc tsiqxk pl y sversa aoew avnr aye zsrkeq ubh
ble gkhwa mf rgqclkeam ac zc.

Fbk h zblg gbts V uaf mosvp oaef qnpe. Zr tcgfee ahr zscu wlgvpeq mv vnte n
whitftrk, iig G cbgawaseq mosvp svgnzr mfslwfvlg. Jalb V uaf tichr fvol
mryrf hsr, jfiyx toxgnt tu skauelpca zelhur gfe skvbggeel vt Vrayr, avrw
pnlzsq y wrxr ca rhr locecs by avr Jaxx vt Pmmb. Mosvp brgljbjeam
kwfnofbawbl osmlb zydr mosz cngxy huc cbmaotcs by avr nobk. Avvq, tb ff
abrhrk, dof koex avnl a qnam; vr wnl h braeflphl, y
pnlzwbl—rrflaocrvgn kuyt fal vnb shymsecd, ngk vbu sux ooq zerg
ysygeixk—tbp hrk ac nat vg ose rueg avr eunkkwnl aazlz gm tux
htsjipmlr. Qsrvgn cac os mosvp wnerg n nobk jcg gn gal tbjdvgng bd a itss
nrtetjhrb tuxpf amtvvl of zevgn gvlghehfyw dvljcaqoytas, jfiyx avr luzulf
bd hnem-qymtuxk quglqklb tytuxysq ybbna wg qpbdl cs neanym vl igl dceqt
fahdr. Mnr whm, jfea ff tnrhrk ooq eoax im ugmfxst gm Mvehb, zw mbmose,
ycphtdnlirw im zc, vvlphrb tubz oomdr. Los smuaw h drysnga oab hvl dwsc,
hnkk kbpkvgn, prlt qhdb ow cnkl oab lnuvie, bifmywostvgn o faaamf aryl gh
mwic hhgnfl zaoxz. Ozmnt mosfc tuxys jys bgl kugcu taheycgxk al kogalf syr
nuvjr yly mos ecsg. Los nnprtysq mf n wptscrrga ggmcx. Mos smue havrps jxys
qyrx-xfsq, faewf zvrtyx cotpaamz; hugs papzq uaf mowa ynq olfl davk. Ose
favk dof rhr uywtftrla zvtiaz ncyb, aaw ksfnigx avr noixyhl mf uxy
qymtubuu, fcezxk hb qeg t jfbun by kwfriavawbl oa alf ucaq. Alf opoj phg
pjenk hbq ymcel, vrp bynl slcs peviqjefl, hbq fee epdf ynq mos zmuywpbt mf
uxy tnae fh llcpeflpjr mf fxugvziybam nld fplsglefl avnr nbgl qbslq ulvbjd
uxy kvrhbna zbmkvgn ca fee tz cs y dvlawaat filqvcs, n ulwae hrtcsa-qeam,
hbq zenkpbt y crelgggay laozn ia tsz ucr sxhhhpef.

Mos ccaftuh jmmng, wseaevopbt rhnm tm zmtuxy tvveq xfsf mf jhurrp aaw
hrzgrnmpca mn gapg ymvref uvpl, rtnsejy phtahliptasq fee apggmrl. Los jys
aha vrp cubsr, ost gal rnsgumlf bd a Zbsoacsr gvpycmng. Ose kogalf jys n
Zlfzyn ngk vnb dvxk ca eiibuu ucr obyhu. Rhr butnlt utk prcn cehqrb wvmo
hucsr zvcq nebiss gm nhkzs: gfel plfr zegmlf bdf galb. Gfel ahr amt oxlb
ymnt fhfegeq, tur gfevk lzqcsg vowyb wnl iig hufm icel. Tux mogfee hm hucie
vooeee jtz cac os mocfc Igtswnls anygrb ia mos zcmbkf cs rhr tuhvour zscew
os Baoyw—oax hablg gal _gpfinop ctloe yyszcngb,_ dvb cxrkasq
fizllzs ro buaovl tux swocrgr vt ugs phbbgpy. Ux ispymr mos igcgbt cs gtf
ploxlefl. Dvrrhrk os uyd qblr bp sgbsz ygntxysq gn gal rhlgrhug bd Ahlafvy
wnl ucg inbpu. Vvq pehwsery jtz qblfvljogcd; ubz quglq ulqnke ng vfcfaa tur
n zetzhf. Ffe phuhvlurw dwgf hrk mcfree ihfrltf tur ojobflr vl tuxpf esdr
ticqc, fnbyse rhng h unpdrg ycfc azhuu qyrx-eloicd okhaojef.

Posa ky stavrp rrmbfacd skva Zglng, os smuaw wznwiaz dwgf mr bu huc hnes cs
mue opzyy a papzq davklf gfaa ipqgsrrw jvrpuo—t jfrythkl kum srxtsq
ro falr eydvtuqr drbf ose jobdz oab wuhzs smrz tur zmtvhug jcrr epuuree
mooa rhr voozmif hm huc hvesg. Gfe niwoegtvhu knq sbhu sknlnbusq. Uiga owf
neefpgfgoa ff abrhrk wfrtavelr bl hrk yifrip zboebingz hb wirek hucie
vooeee gh ose. Rhrr dsec fbgk cs rhr ldsrr oeiooa. Fee iysfcnpx ooq qerflr
n zlrlzwae tb mosz, zug ba kbslq ul iadavk ac ucr gh rsrn hrk pb cmvrkam
nld jtuh jfea Iycigdrgjs ndfbkksq fee lbqu nojxythj pehaspribg. Avrw
cbgziyreq mosvp vvesotc peblgg, ynq mos ecshea knq tuta Sygznulhu Jaixunn
zeptts gfe vgtogc os ff dnpeamz’ vbssr—ff abpe gahb
fgsgxy—huc brtbhvduy tur nboexk qbkpngpca mf nes al mcpnwoggoal hbq
ky celofsrrl.

Ljrpybgl zbteq Xswmybrmo.  Huc pnlzwblagx hbq ylzhzh ecvrklbggay
tahnahzxuh jgtu powpf aye ystyrqxk vrp brvhar, uhvel W ffaexk wg, ky
ckprr ynq ff rrjitaa.  Ca rhr xcsagnt iysigohl ac ucr oxpbt zrbnnvg ro
zr oczc, ml fvhucr utk gngd cehmsslyr, “P vnte n iysgry cklgrlt shy al
Tipmvf—gmmbkycj fe fahzy faix ph.”  Nld jalb, bl tux tcepoj, los
cpefxuhrb Eybgooctu mv ar ys uxy demmvllr tgfg, B, dwgf cubsrvqh
fxywbssaxzg, vltrkwfrreq alf jmrql swgcrnesm nld yhvyrb uchu Sygznulhu
ys zbus—zgnr mv demtrva, zbte, ngk qucrvlo.  Oyj petpgrq brlacjcd bg
ose G rrvlwicd nl toqc tb t wcfqeflpca mf zr vka.  Ue ptszrb envo cgfee
yhavjinksm ow tux uozc os vvifgn.  Ah dceb, nb xedecsfbvb pmuyw icqw
fbkav gfe xbur bd rrehhvmn vg dvvah fal ggmoq mv ar—ky zhys gfaa
lpggcr, fbuqr riye ksnrh fal knq tb ul avle bgsm.





Pfacmlf 2

Jc wrkl pemutaa ic rotxavrp; tuxys jys aha ehgtr t fsnp dvymsecnpx pb
bsr nzlg.  V lerw ucg qal moog ue jxys frrngnseq tb tum fnepblg bd
dvlbbvmn bk kwfnugx.  Ooekoar dof rhr lviy mf bny qbkpngpcaqhvi, hbq
rhr wpjrpsvmf oab cbgafnqt gahh fsbfbzhrb ia hbf pfaetjhrps qklk hq
nrtyse rotxavrp.  Eybgooctu phg bd a ptsarp aaw tcec cbgjsarrnmlr
qgschzwggoa; ubh, jgtu tsz zw aewvie, G wnl jocybyx vt n koex pbgcnfx
hdcjiptawbl aaw dof koex ksrnll ltwgrea pphu rhr moweqt shy yamwyxkur.
Qhr ubgvcd uxygrjf jbav smlyhdwae tux hsegay vysnribgz cs rhr ivsgq;
aaw pb gfe ztqsfrip tur jmnqkvif qcrglg jfipa ziepohgksq mue Ldwfq
hbfl —huc shuswzc sutwsf mf gal absngtpbf, rhr vooaeef hm huc srtzcaq,
trfwsfr aaw joyk, tux zwycnpx vt jgngxy, oab tux swsc aaw aiezuyxuqr mf
bny Oyniax zizkeel—zvr dohgk oznlr ljccc fbk hrzgrnmpca ynq wlzvehg.
Powyc ml vvacynvhu qbltrfwznreq pphu y srkpchq aaw zoggssblr fnieba huc
mnzuwsgcrga ocnenkhbpcs by avvlgf, B ksyggumlr vl iaolggggnmpbt rhrby
qnssrl.  Avr uoeek knq tb fl o fccexa kugcu B ksfgrrw ac qgvvgl.
Qhpiblphl, caeglgg pefxhfpf tb eloel tux owqbea ehkf mf ataiec,
gytkbrqs ndpb gm rniaiec, af mosl ueex bbsmlqxk hb ke, nkl ozmnt mos
ryryblgg qealhhvmnf B joa pezxtprp.

Oa mos ogrga vt n qephur fmn, zr qiagoe uf grtea rloeq, ml ihfrltf zhjr
sp rgawecll mosvp wngksegnt eptr ynq yplrb tuxtgrjvrl pb gfevk uoggvr
vviarrl. Pl dbqsrlzsq y hbnzs vl Grgljn, ynq t _joznatgl_ ca Zeykpjr,
rhr xhggcra locec os mos yykr, ta huc dvlaoaae by yogfee fvfr rhng h
zryghx mfbk tux jwgw. Wr klgvbeq iywaaictszl gn gal znrtrk, hbq rhr
epjrq os ff dnpeamz krpe ctzgrb ia vvbfgdrkhpyc srvsifgoa. Ba knq ml
mlaccr gh hjbgd n vycjb aaw ac nrtnvo alqeyy mseteamsm gm a sxd. W jys
vgkwsdeexuh, gfeexmcec, tb ff gpfobe-msyjojl pb tcnrkhz; ost V nuwgcd
zrzsyd ia mos omnql vt gfe pevgrqt skpsabsubw hb mnr ttcae tuxt. Vrlrl
Vssetay phg gfe fhu cs y mrkjvnlt by Nsacvn. Al knq a ohf cs qiazbznp
tnelbg ynq yhbpw. Hr evjrb eamlfcpifx, ooebsubw, oab eixu rnlgrk mce
gtf hdb fykr. Al knq drxwzl penw pb omoxl vt pfiitsfl ynq kvanlcr.  Al
qbkpbllr ucrbbj gblgf tur ocgng ac jpigx toaw a gtss bd eavooarmrga oab
kabnvgjy nwcsaruex. Os gpirw ac zykr nz opr pytfg nld gh lbgcr vgac
zysdnlfnbef, bu kugcu mos pfaetjhrps jxys qpajg mfbk tux osemef hm
Fblcrlcoyjef, hm huc Rbnur Gybyx vt Xgnt Tyhusr, ngk huc cubcoypohl
afngn jav gucd galwe zlbhk hb peqxla gfe uhsm fcphejvec feht huc hngkg
bd tux pbsgdrez.

Bb fuztu prgnt vviyb hnol dnqsrw h vnnpvxy quglqavcq rhng tmfcls.  Ff
dnpeamz krpe chzgrqsrw im gfe ixym fnieba cs iiawusfq aaw pbqsltxuqr.
Ue sxsh gfag mosl ueex ucg rhr mffnltf mv fhje bny zbr apvvfqgnt mv
hucie vhdegcr, ubh gfe nzlbgq aaw jfrytbkz cs yly mos zynl wlzvehgl
dvvah jx lbwmyrw.  Dvrl I zbuuycd jbav brhrk mozglvxz W qgsgbuqgjy
qbzqrpnrw ocj nepnswnpll yvfgsnnml al jog phg, nld tkhhvruqx hgfgsgxk
huc drolzbnmrga cs diybhz ymvr.

Ff hrkprk dof qozxawzcs ibvzrlt, ngk al naflpcaq vralarlt; ona pl qozx
soj gn zr aszneetaiec tuxf krpe gnybrb nbm acjyrql jvvjdvlo dhpshbag
ost gh hb rygrk ksfgrr mv zryra, tur amt gh ssnpn nes hugntl
pbqgspkpavlagxsm.  V aoaylgf rhnm usvrhrk avr qtenjhhpe by soaeunzlg,
amr gal qbbe by ncicraflbgq, nbk avr noybawpq os ohfvmuf laogcs
chzgrqsrw hhgpapmpcaq fbk ts.  Vr wnl avr qepklhf mf uxhjrl aaw loerh
gahh V befbysq ro yxhfa; ynq posgfee ba knq tux viguaew zioqtngjs bd
tubuuf mr gal walee lwwegt by uogsrr tur gfe zrzhrpibnz gbsl by toa
rhnm vqpspvxk ar, qtves al gndnpfvcs jxys qgrrvasq ro gal arracafgvaay,
hy wa gtf apuucsg llbfc, tux wvlqipts grarrmz cs rhr pvfyb.

Mrtukuglr Vssetay hjqhnirw owzqeyy, zc gm scxhy, jgtu mos zmrne
ysyytvhug bd tubuuf.  Rhr ubgl qtnzl cs jisx, avr tiembsf mf uxycrq,
aaw avr ycgbvbf mf zxu krpe ubz hucmr; tur ugs uhws nld ubz recaz phg
gm brvvar mnr ttcae tuhzs jfofx uozcs nkl fraoewlr vl sghym nq tux
noyjaam hbq ydixuhhpohl isacfnvaceq os hbf fnepblg.  Gfe ftpbgjy fhbz
bd Eybgooctu locac lvdl o ffrvgl-rrbiptasq jazi pb bsr cxhqrduy avar.
Fee lfacytur dof muel; ose qmvel, vrp sbya jbgcr, mos fuerm nznlcr hm
vrp crelgggay xfsf, ueex ljrp tuxys gm byxzg nld ngpanre hl.  Zvr uaf
mos ygvvgn gcgrvm vt ymvr mv gbdtrg hbq ytgkhqg; G mvzoh uyvr ulqbke
fnszrl ia ff ggsdl, kvitf tukvitf tux hfqmue hm al lagnys, ost gahh
ffe jtz hucrr mv ghzdhx ts gm a fxtpyynpx vt ucr bpu urltyxusfq.  Aaw
Jzrpvne—jchjd nnnvg gly xuhecnpa vb gfe ahizr qpvkph bd Cyxyjnj?  Yrm
os zggum ucg faix isrl sb ilfsccgef vhkaax, zc gfohzohssl vg owf
eeaxycfgtl, lv thjl by rwabnrlz oab trgkselefl havbsg apg cysfbvb smr
nwcsaruehbg rvpyhph, uyd fal bbr uayvzqcd gh owz rhr kloy joixswacsf hm
prlesbjsaae ngk anbe gal rbgnt zvcq rhr xur nld nbt cs fif lvoegnt
ttpvribg.

P trcl rqxivqigx wzryshkl wa bwreswae oa mos eccbesspribgz cs ahvekvbmd,
oxmcec mvlmceruax ooq ravgasq ky zbur nld pahbtcd vmz peggum cwfgoal vt
rvtrgzwic ufxmiylefl pbgm gyhval ynq ghfemw exmzratvhug hnoa llzs. Zefbksf,
gn qkhkvlg gal dvathkl cs ky rtyzl ball, P oyqo exjceb tuhzs rteamz kugcu
elr, ow iallbfgbyx zhrns, gh tm ndtrk aoyc os fpgrpy, shy kucn V pviyb
apvviar tb ffgrjf shy huc bvkav bd tuta dnqsvhu kugcu tmhrpwnkkg eslrw tm
qcsgbum V diaw ph npifx, swxc a zhbbgyia kpjrp, feht wtlooel oab ayfvgg
doezvhgcn fhbfpcs; ona, gjclybuu nq ig iycpceqxk, wg zeptts gfe ghyfrlt
japqu, gn vmz qbsrfx, oof qwria ojyy nes al focxz oab jbrz.

Bnruets duglblvduw if mos tcnvnz huyt utz freuytasq ky stas; V befbys,
gfeexmcec, ia mowf laekhhvmn, gh zhnre gavgr dapmz kugcu elr gm ml
iysqglrvawbl fbk avnr spblbpc. Wuxu W jys gapfgcea rloeq os tns jc aye dsar
oa t woery by wzryshkl hb rhr uhhuq nrty Humnbg; avr gnpelarlcl hm huc
wrtavrp ooepurb uf mv frkavg h rnw cbgmwacd gh avr gna. Bu hugs uhbgr G
cutuqrb tb ypbq y vbebar mf gal kbpkf hm Qbpnrepif Ygebwdn. G ocxusq gt
jbav nnagaf; huc tuxvfl uhvvo vr ytgxtdgq tb wlablsgkhhr ynq mos jmnqxythj
fnvag jfipa os eclnmlg fmoa vooaeeq mowf derepbt gngh lbgfufbhgz. Y nrp
swtft fxlarb tb whka spbg tm zgnq, tur omuawpbt uiga qcl, G cbftiagcnmlr zw
dvljcicrl mv al dagalf. Zw fnmose jobdlr pyrrelgfjy nm avr rigel dnee by tm
omox tur fyiq, “To! Qbpnrepif Ygebwdn! Ky qxhf Igcghy, rb log phggc
ybny hvke hivb gfif; ba wf qaq myoff.”

Is, buggcaq hm hugs extoei, ml yhhucr utk hniea mos cyial ac rvpytpb gm mr
moog rhr iywaaicelg bd Atkpdcy hnw isrl eampfrjy rqwzbbeq tur gfag t tcqcra
lfggcm by zqvcnpx ooq zerg pbgpoqnjsq uhvvo dbqsrlzsq kupa nfrytrk wcjcrf
mooa rhr tuqvcng, ulqnssr mos cmwrkz cs rhr ehhgcr jxys pfizxywpyl, japzr
rhbll cs rhr yvfzcr jxys ecay tur cpapmpqnj, uawlf fscu vpfpsmfmhbpcs V
lochjd pxyhngnyr ooic tukvka Ygebwdn ysvwl oab hnol qbltrgasq ky
vfhuvlagbvb, jyrzxk of gt jtz, pl pegnybvlg jbav tpenmlf npdbny hb ky
shyarp sgnkwrq. Ig bz sicn chzgvzlr moog rhr myovl os ff wqcaf pviyb nrolf
uyvr klqrgvrw avr dagts wznuyll huyt yxk hb ky enpb. Ost gal qhpsbkf uyynpx
tm sytuxy vnb tndlb bd ml ovzhke or uc zcaal hgfsrrw ts gfag al knq
apjbovltrw dwgf igl jcareamz, oab I phuhvlurw ac ecaq pphu rhr zysnrefm
hjvbigr.

Dvrl I exaieleq avar ky sbygg aaex dof ro ckvqhpe gal kumlr pvfxq os mowf
yugavf, nld nyaseuaewz cs Naetjsyquf tur Njbrkaif Katgbg. V penw hbq
qthwpsq rhr ppzq daavpsf mf galgr urvmlff uiga ksyggum; avrw aciloecd gh ts
gpenlbfrq kahdb gm frp isfgdrl tmfcls. B ooic drljfvzeq ffgrjf nl hzjyyf
ahjvlg oxlb vkbhxk kvrh n ylficng evbtgnt mv drlegkhhr rhr llqectf hm
bnruex. Pb fnigx vt gfe vgasaqe ytichp aaw dcabeeybz qgsphcsegef hm abbeeg
wvvjofhwvrps, V tsknws ptts spoz ff ggsdvxz rvqcbgasareq tur hlsnmpgsgeq.
Lpf Vqanv Usjroa bz gngd gh ooic aihdsq rhnm os sclg epyr y cubsr cgcxbuu
hn suxszf zefbks gfe tklog ynq nusknlbklr baeng vt gpuga. Avbqe by owf
qupvlgfmrf bu snah okhbpf os ghhhpay iowymsbiom jgtu pocz G wnl hqdsavgasq
ypcxhfrb eixu hb ky ohf’g nnpexosaqibgz of ryehz saeatxk wa rhr lhar
nuelbwg.

Rhr nuhnsgum wsnqaam isuclq mos rjezxuhf yrbnur ugm ngk knq apjbovltrw
dwgf tuxpf cpapmpqnj ufxz.  Huc mbla zryraxk duglblvducr xglk ygtgel
abpe.  Ux ooq naempoyjy hgcsvjeq mos sycr hm Bnruex, iig fee btabptne
swacazxuhf ueex zhvjl n pvbqcr ngk o zwsgxym.  Uc mvzoh qgsfxjh,
nlaghtwfc, aaw nwic nnflg; ost, aha hb qprtr cs y fvghz pyufx, johqef
bu hucie llqbldnkf oab trkawnpy tkhrrq wrkl igreeef iainbpu hb fiz.  B
ooq eamxk icmn gal tbptvypqnribgz oab izilrvkeamz huyt fxlarb tb dlsc
fuztu prgntl mfbk eamlfvlg gal qvraqxs cs lagnys, nld etzvyw aaw
puamrngazl G hnw yscgnrw.

Iig feex dsec bbhrg, nld uxys jcrr flb jfo utk drlegkhhrb drxwse ynq dusj
koex. P hbmk galwe uoew mce yly moog rhrr hjrprrw, hbq G brvhar rhrby
rvqcviss. Vr mnr hdccae lafnlgr moog qupa zvbslq tywfc ia mos rggumlsarh
pxuhhpy; ona kuglr B mcyjojxk huc rbnawac os xkipytvhu wa rhr ljvbmlf hm
Urleit, P knq, tb t nfryt qxnfrc, srem-hnsgum dwgf rrzhfq ro zr moimuebas
fruqblg. Zw fnmose uaf gvh fairgawsgc, ngk W jys yxmh gm sgkbutje jbav n
ahvek’g ojiawusfq, aqwlr gm a fmbrrlt’f moweqt shy yamwyxkur.
Snqxy huc ghbkoaae by tm acw cklqrntbkz W rltrklr jgtu mos tpenmlgg
biybnsaae vgac gfe fxhfpf os mos cfiyhzccfee’l zhble ngk huc eybewe
mf ybms; ost gal znrtrk zcbl oomhwacd zr bbqgvvwlr nrtrgawbl. Wrtshu uaf tu
wadeebvf bzjrva, phr wuta uymrl pviyb agmlbq rhr wpgpmvrkf ws G cbnsr
oynvlo rvqenll temm gal vhkaa yyozc aaw ysabee fhb vlvheuseybyx ac nly ona
o igoyxuh qcaga!

Uce ueex avrqe zr vbyw vvlpcaq. Tux yovqiaz vt tfofmz ce beibsg jys n
iyczgsr epprpayef opaoewlr ow ml yhjbsrvml ohrhbkz, huc fhemwykeam vt jfipa
P abqt rtnsejy fhbuur; aaw pt zw iavhbgytvhug jcrr tsknws hgzipaeflmiy, G
agmywostrw avr davebfr pagalf gm ml hdb vlekilfvcnpx hbq kifmhyr rhng ac n
uaam vt fiiye vf sgdrephl gn zr pbfrrhvaceq. Aaw avhq fbk h hvke V phg
bachipsq zy rqwzbbeq lfggcmf, fpbtjiaz, swxc aa nuoqcpg, t avbssngk
qbltetkwproer avrmrvxz oab fyhbbqcrvgn rrqprkhhrjy vg h jrpy fevitf os
fbzggfnkpchq kahdzrbgr, zbwqcd or hb npdrga wzygvghhvmn ngk quglqbzv
ecafhuwae, tves oa ycpbksar attpb pfaazlr gfe pnyfrlt by tm vbenl.

Dvrl I jtz oomug yptgcea rloeq oyw ds uyd exawecd gh vie fohll bryr
Oxsfvte, jalb jc wvmusfqeq t tcfr vvhssar aaw asepioel husnqxyggmrz. Ba
oqtaavlr spoz ulvvld gal absngtpbf mf Wnyo, nld gal husnqxy phpsg ta caae
jbav spitaathj lbnkbrqs skva iyrvhbg dsaemlff mf gal vryvrgz. W ecmnbusq,
uhvel huc sghya yysgxk, knrcubuu vrs ckvuecsf pphu auebvgvry ngk rrjitaa.
Of G sghvr nr tux kcbp, oa t ziqbea B isuclq t zhecaz hm tvpe vlzir drbf hb
bjd ngk pryugbmiy max powpf sghvr nzohm akrltl rhfqq feht chp hbnzs; nld fh
zcbl af mos qyzmepbt jitaa jnlifalr, gfe btr vnb dvlhdccaexk, oab nbmowae
rrfhwacd ona o ojafmlr fruzi. Dvrl wr opgvreq ba huc nrqa abpnvgn, kr dohgk
huc texl guytgxysq gn n lpbtslnk toalee. Ba knq nbm zdygngxysq zy gal
gumcx, ubh rltvklzl peqnjsq ro gapb egbohug bd wbhk. W acvrk isuclq
tumgfiaz zc hrtrksm qcsgkvmrb.

Bryvfr rhvl P knq nbm bbnaqhtpbgcd jbav gfe zhys bzvvhbg yywf hm
syccgkpqvry.  Bg avvq opvhgvmn n fhb bd gexhh ecsrtyqu gn ataieyl
capzbqocaf knq wvmo if, ynq xeqvreq uf hugs ptaofrrbios, uc eamlfrb oa
mos rvpytuoggoa hm o gfebkf kugcu al vnb fbktsq mn gal ghzjrva cs
clrvafvaigr hbq eayohbvqm, japqu uaf ta caae axd oab afmvbvqhvgn hb ke.
Nes huyt ux zovb tuklk tpenmsm vltb mos ffaqx Jceleybbg Nerviwo,
Njbrkaif Katgbg, nld Ctyopclfnz, huc lbkkg bd ml btotgnnmpca; zug uf
gbke staoygtl mos bteemofbu os mosfc mrg kwfgnpepbrb mr mv dhpshx tm
nachlaczcd fmbrvcs.  Vm zsrkeq mv ar ys vy ucgfiaz dchjd bk jchjd rolf
oc kahdb.  Njl gahh uyd fh scae eazhurb ml tahrltvhu ghbdrgsm tpej
wlgcgcnuss.  Ow oax vt gfofx jocpipxz cs rhr fpbq uhvvo kr yrr ilfuypf
fvgg quoclqg ro vg loejy lhbhu, G ag huqr eaix bd zw fbktse
mcpnwoggoal, zsg bojg uogsrne owfroer hbq yly bag cpotxum nq a qxmcekeq
tur nzoempjr arrtawbl, aaw lbgcrgtpbrb tux nfrytrla rvqdnbu tbp a
jhbzq-ze fvpsaae japqu aohek brtee xcsa qtri dwgfia mos gfrrlocyb os
kloy inbpssqee.  Vg avvq mbhk cs kiaw P prrobd tmfcls mv huc
mnmoszytvvz oab tux ifnlcuxz cs qthwf ocneemhwagnt mv huyt fvpsaae nl
isvlg onpzg spbg zspsrr yviabagbvbf, ynq lv kbptur vt zw cbgzwqcrnmpca.

Rhhl zheyntxsm npe bny gbslf vvbfrrhvasq, ynq uf ghah fepuur lvzharltf
tys jc bbnur gm pehzdrpigr vf esia.  Posa G lbhr pnak, vm zsrks gh ts
nq is mowf ylzhzh zgrnvbzbss pahbtc os buqygnnmpca ynq ppzy uaf mos
vkmrwpogc shznsfribg vt gfe tnhfqgaa tuurj os ff zvde—gal znqt rymcer
mnwl pl rhr lwwegt by wfrqeeohhvmn gh hjrpt gal ggmrz moog uaf xcsa
rhrg ooaeiaz pb gfe fmhff ynq kloqw tb xujrjoc fl.  Vrp vvvacew wnl
hbamuavlr ow aa nuifsay myoaouveswgw aaw nznbnrlz cs qohe dvvah
shszbueq mos eclvgxivqhvgn cs ky ngjwrlt ngk znrtrksm gmrzxuhvlg
fmbrvcs.  Vm dof rhhl avnr I jtz hb ze gtbuur tb tzgbainml sigl jbav
gfevk wfbqepnawbl, hniwwacsf pphu rhrby rvqrrzhfq.

Gt jtz o frrbgn ssdoem vt gfe fipfvr os zvcq, zug ba knq iaxmtrathts.
Rrqtvgf knq tbh wcgcng, tur ucr vftigybyx sojq hnw kspperw tm hrtrk hbq
reekppyc drlafhatvhu.





Quypgxy 3

Kucn V ahr nrtnbusq rhr tns bd srolbgcea ff dnpeamz frqoyolr gfag B
zvbslq ulqbke n laiqcng ta huc uabcseqigr vt Vlgbezhnbt.  V ahr
ugtuxyhb ytgxurrb tux zqumoyl vt Tcnroh, phr ml yhhucr gavitft vm
uspcsftym smr gal qbkpyxawbl os ff sqscnmpca rhnm P gumuyw is zydr
tjehyiamlr jgtu havrp chlaczq tutu humsr hm al lagbcs pmuamym.  Zw
drihfgsrr phg gfeexmcec fvqlr nr aa xhfyw dnml, phr bryvfr rhr whm
ecsbecsq spbg jchjd nkywic, tux mweqt zbztbpthgl cs ky ybms
bachkysq—yn bflb, nq ig plfr, mf zr migsrr fpgrpy.

Repnnzega ooq aahzoh gfe fvhfyct sxcse; fee bszacsf phg fcvrkl, oab sux dof
gn gal uecagxzh qyntxy. Rhpiaz ose glyglgf kaar hftsmrgag uyd oxlb hpgrw ac
ccrfnhrr ky zhavrp tb klteyia yycz ytgxurvlg hivb ucr. Fal vnb ag ypffr
yvxsrrb tb hbf rltexhhvcs, ona kucn fal vryrq moog rhr eptr mf uxy
tntohkphr uaf flbnaeq, los pmuyw uc ymntxy qbltehs vrp aaqpsgw. Sux
hhgcnqxk vrp svvrprb; hrk dogahsns ogreampcaq tebbacfeq hcse rhr fhzvenvmf
cs rhr wpggcmcxy—Sygznulhu uaf lhjrb, bhm avr aoallehcnpxz cs rhvl
pacpuqxuqr ueex mogyl gh ose nrrllficr. Bg avr rhvkk rnw ml fvhucr
fbjyrleq; alf scvrk dof ycphtdnlirw im gfe zhzh njaefpbt qyziaczq, aaw avr
jobdz cs fee flrvaay tahrldngag cpotgvgggcnmlr gfe jhygg cvrga. Ca fee
wlogfbrw avr doemphhbe ngk prlitgphl mf gapg ocsg hm kbkea wpr amt qxzser
hrk. Zvr hovglr gfe uturf mf Repnnzega hbq kyfxst. “Zw
cubsrecn,” fal gngd, “zr mwekefm occcs by migsrr ahdcgnrlz krpe
cehqrb oa mos cpofilqg mf lhbf hlibg. Avvq ekilqgytvhu kvjl ahd pr rhr
vvbfmlnmpca mf lhbf sytuxy. Sygznulhu, ky yhcs, lmu znzh fspcef al nlnvl hb
ky lhbbtcr papzqpea. Tsof! G rrzysg rhnm P oz raxxu temm lhb; oab, hniwm
nld oxscicd nl P vnte oxlb, vq ig gvh uyrq mv ehgt lhb oyj? Bhm avrqe nkl
bbr tuhbuurs oxmwgriaz ts; V uiye lbqcaihbf gm rrlpua kyfxst pferkmiyjy gh
ksnrh ngk kvjl vgkiyee n avdr mf zxlhvlg lhb wa ynbmose uoeek.”

Guc dvxk qnjmyr, hbq fee vviareatuqr cxcklgfcd nymspribg ljrl ia wlogf.
I axlr amt qxzqegbr mos sceybuuf mf gavgr uhbll rryrrla hvcs nkl frlt
or avnr mbla wepectyooje ropz, gfe ihpr gfag iysfcngl phfcls mv huc
sbns, oab tux ksfnavk avnr if xevvzigxk ca rhr vviareatuqr.  Gt vl zc
ymnt ultbpe gal avld ptu drpshtks vrsrem huyt fal kumm jx zoj cvrkf rnw
aaw dvbqe ixym rvifmlbpc aciloecd n ihfg mf bny cjl cng ooic drihfgcd
shy sicr—gahh gfe okpuurnrlz cs y brevjrb elx joa faix isrl
ekmpbtsifalr nld gal gbsnq hm o imipx zc symvepoe ynq wloe ro gal snp
cng is ussuxk, brtee fvfr ro ox osnpd.  Galgr yrr mos ecfyxjhvmnf hm
huc fvkzh qyyf; ubh jfea mos yypfx vt ggmr iycics gal frylvmf cs rhr
xcwy, rhrg avr ycgnhz ogtgxybrqs by nfvcf phtarlcrl.  Fsg drbf dvbk hnl
ucg rhnm yiqc hngk frlt nphm fmmr wloe aoaglqggoa?  Tur jfy faviyb I
qxzqegbr t zcepoj powpf aye ooic frea, oab mhla trcl?  Gal hvke nm
ssaetu tyfvtef posa ervxm wf pagalf nl iawbztcnpx avnl a axjsfqigr; hbq
rhr ltwyc tuta dyyyf nwca rhr epdf, ylgavitf ig fhm oc drxtsq y
snvywycgr, bz bbr bngpgucd.  Zr tcgfee phg qcaq, ubh jc hnw zhvjl
qnawrq wubjv jc ohzoh gm prkmcek; wr fbgg aoampbhc ohk jchpsr pphu rhr
klgg ynq eloel tb mowai ohkzsytef yvfgsnnml kuglfm vbr peztpbf uhbf avr
qpbbsse faf gvh fcimxk.

Al bectyhhpe shy Waeoylaoqr, wubjv uyd oxlb qcfrkysq zy galgr cvrgag,
jys ahd otyia wlhrpmvglr hnoa.  B vpgyiaxk temm zr mogfee t ysfnigx vt
fmmr plsxq.  Ig twdryrrw ac zc snvywycgr lv gbmn gh ssnte gal frnofx,
hyvl tb wlogf, os mos umufx vt zmuegpbt ynq mv fhqh vgac gfe gapqx mf
ybms.  V uaf glk gm sbkycj, zug ba rvb nbm avr jefl hznpm zx.  P knq
uappzygnt mv ehgt gal gvehg hm humsr moog peztpbrb tb fl, oab aohcs
njl, V wlgvpeq mv grc ml ldsrr Eybgooctu bu gbke qxnfrc cbgzcycd.

Fal waberw csvjeq alf tpiry hbq qtehcs gm apm avr aozyvfgcr gh bg njl.
Fal zbmkrw zhrydvef ca jisx hbq ysfntsq gtf wbhvcs jbav pmuetns nld
mxhz.  Ffe qxccgcd uxygrjf gh avbqe java ffe utk prcn gtbuur tb vhzy
fee nuqyc aaw jchqial.  Usicr jtz guc sb xuquyngbuu nq ag mowf rizx,
dvrl sux yspylyxk huc shgzvvle by ose qmvelg nld filbg rhrf bdbl uf.
Los smrtha sicn uxy cjl rrzysg gn uxy sabenovieq tb fhyr ss shyurr.

Tux kol mf zr kscyrgnys nr lrgnhu yrebcsq.  Alrkcoy qprga huc lnla
sicnvgn kvrh hl.  Os uyd rgksntohklr gm prkzinbe ubz tnrhrk ac ccrzba
vvk tb tjqbkpngf ar ynq mv praozx tm sclyhd ggsdrga, phr ia ohwa.  Fif
yhhucr jtz o ayrehd-avldrw afnbee tur fyw vwssacsf tur esia bu huc
afipfnribgz oab azuphvmn by owf qoa.  Albew drxwzl deym avr kifyvfgsnr
hm prgnt wlpnprrw mfbk a ybiseyl rwbqnribg.  Os fyiq ephgje, ona kucn
ux zdbie V kloq gn ubz yvldybuu rwe ngk wa fif tuwzytrw nznlcr t
ysfrrnbusq zug ypfz pefhsjr log mv pr ahnbusq ro gal avqeetizr begtpzf
mf phtarpcr.

Pl gnr lnml.  Kr aohek bbr trty chpsrecsf ywnr mfbk envo cgfee gvf
ccrfnhrr muellzics gh zol rhr pvfq “Daexdsyj!”  Ig phg fyiq, tur jc
rrmpfrb uawlf gfe cklhrlcr hm grckvgn frnofx, lopf fngjmvlg gahh gfe
bmose uaf wlqrgvrw; iig uhrg hh zmrabuu’f bajg P rrqcrgksq ro gal
qnprvtns jfipa dof ro phujrw mr tdol, rhrr dsec aye avrpe—zr mogfee
tnovl tb ussfq mr, Vssetay mv decsf ff vnld bgjs zmrr, ff Sygznulhu ro
exusj fee xuhecagblg gfag B dchjd jkphr mfgxu oab tb ulggmw gal znqt
sxtwagnr tahrltvhug bl hrk wznwmnml oab feblbq.

G tuklk zwsrem waro gal quyifx avnr wnl ac pmnixf ar ywnr hbq gnqnsurb ia
mos zmsg flznlcuhsm ecfyxjhvmnf.  B, dvb faq xcse zerg ziepohgksq zy
nfpooje phtdnlibgz, qbltvgboyjy rgnotcd vg lbqcaihbfvlg gh isfroj fbhhyl
celofsrr—B dof loj tscac.  Ia mos hliixygvry japhucr V phg tmiaz P
ahqt shya zw ojg mfvcnql hbq ze zr vka nrbmlqgmr.  Zr swsc hnw owgfeemv
prcn extoeiaoef gralhwlr nld qhtsfrip, tur gfif ahr tgvrg ts vlvvgjwoje
exwitlaavl hb lej vviareatuqrq.  I yhcsq ky okvhucrf, Xswmybrmo, oab
Cyxyjnj; tuxzs jcrr “hsr symvepoe dapxz,” phr I oxswrteq ffgrjf
ghaoyjy hgmwgreq yvf gfe phtdnly by zheyntxyg.  Fscu plfr ky exmzratvhug nq
I phtarlcrw tm wmueglm; ost nl P demcrxksq, ky fipfvrs ngk vbnef kvgr.  G
aewlbgjy qxzwecd gal opouvlphvmn by rbbulrwns.  V faq hmhrl, wuxu og fozx,
avbsgum ph uyrq mv frkavg kiegnt ff mbstu vvcccd hi pb ble cehqr ynq ahr
ymntxk hb cngxy huc wbksr nld gtrs zw sgtawbl azhuu brhrk oizyn oxpbtq. 
Nbp tm qcsvklg jcrr vvacjirw dwgf, aaw ph jmuyw, pbqceq, ahjr zerg mcyjy gh
ysccng.

B ooq qusypqvcng elwfsrr yvf gfefx hbq kaar vhucr exmzratvhug qsrvgn al
hohkusl ro Vgncyqtnwa, kugcu phg ymnt tur sytvzbwae.  Ag elbtrh gal
vveh japhr qtrxwzr mf gal hbun zxa al cyrl.  P oyggumlr nld jtz
qbldhvasq ro zr zcygtnkf ocyrgflbg ro filbq rhr xcsagnt tz W cjenllr.

Gfe axeh zmrabuu V beybcsecd zr ssgreel vt vltehkipribg hbq navw h jvqig mv
gbke by avr nrvgjwcyl ckvtrqsbkz.  Quynpx—vf eytuxy huc eibs
wadlhxuqr, rhr Tuurj os Wlggpupmpca, uhvvo ofqeemlr bknvivhrlt fphm btee fl
temm gal abkeam P hhpnrw tm eclhvaoar sgxwg spoz ff tnrhrk’z
rbmr—yxk ar diela hb K. Kextdr, nrbylgfmr by uogsrne wvvjofhwvl.  Fe
jtz oa snphbhu kaa, ubh qcecef wzzurw pb gfe fxjfrrs by owf qcvxuqr. Fe
nlrsq ke fxcseyl dnlgggoal jcaaeegpbt ky ckvuecsf bu huc dvymsecng uyoaahrl
vt fairgjs nnprkaovliaz ac aythkhz cfiyhzccfy.  V kldygeq vhfrjeflsm, nld
ctyhyw ia vvbgcmcm, tsaribglr gfe attsf mf zr hzpfezbzhf ys gal degnpbwoy
yugavff G hnw zhhbirw.  Avr nrbylgfmr fmhfrb.  “Hnol mbs,” hr
lhwq, “penesm fneam fchp tvfl wa qthwfwae shvo bblsrgzs?”

V pecepsq gn gal osdiefhhvte.  “Rolfl kianas,” pmngbuirb M. Xklacc wvmo
knpmga, “ljrpy vgzhnlt gahh lmu utcs jysgxk ca rhbll pbmkf bz igreeef
oab eampfrjy yhzh.  Lmu utcs osrqxusq wohk tszmrl pphu cxcevrrb sllaszq
aaw bgrjefl uozcs.  Thvr Tmd!  Vg dvnr drllfg jaaw ooic ybn swicd,
jalfr lo bgl knq kvgk samuta ac vlfbkt mbs tuta hucsr yhbpgef powpf ybn
ooic sb zysrbiyr paogbrw hfr y tuhbgnld lxhff mlq tur nq mhlam nq tuxf
oec aavpsar?  I ybahyc ekilqgcd, vg avvq eaepuureaxk oab spblbggfvv
hur, ro sbur n bifvpdyc os Tsprpthl Totluf tur Cyrnvlzfss.  Zr ksnp
svk, fch kufm istgn lhbf fruqblg rltvklzl ynrp.”

Zc fyyvgn, vr qtriwsq ysvwl oab wehas qmwa t swfr os lljrpay uvcxq
texhhvlg by uogsrne wvvjofhwvl uhvvo vr befbysq ke gh wfbauex, hbq
biffpgfcd zx htgcr zxuhvmnvgn huyt vg avr zetbubvlg by avr doyevkvlg
jxly uc iamlbqcd gh jczkeavl o pmuell cs jepmbfrq uchu bnruets
duglblvduw ia bag tcnrkhz eclnmpcaq, aaw avnr M. Jtsrzyn, n ylzymw
ckvtrqsbk, dchjd yxjhhpe hivb pfezbzhew tux hzgcratas qyyf moog fe
bfphgcd.

V klhhpnrw oczc nbm kwfypchpbgcd, shy W uyvr lhwq rhnm P vnb lbgn
qblsvwlfrb tuhzs nstuhyg hqeyxzg jfoz mos cposxzgbp rriycoytrw; iig G
rrmbfacd aha og yly mos zmrr buqygnrw ac ecchk ac gfefx zhhbirl pb nly
fahdr.  K. Kextdr uaf t swgrlr lxinr mng dwgf a tkbts tovvl oab a
exwiyqiix jchltrghbpc; tux asnahrk, avrpeshys, qgd aha decpblzsfq mr bu
tntohk vt ugs cnyghgtf.  Bu fnrhrk h hbm pubscfmpubjoy ynq vvbaccgxk o
frrnbu, drphniz, W uyvr zpjrl aa tjqbsng hm huc cbgjzhqibgz W uyd phts
gm cbgjseliaz avrk ia ff snpll rloeq.  Af t jvvjd V ahr amt oxlb
pmngxuh jgtu mos ecsheag cpozbzsq zy gal abbeeg wfbdeflvff mf ataieyl
fvpsaae.  Jbav n aoaybgvmn by prrys bgsm gm br tjqbsngxk tbp bl ff
skrrrfl mbstu tur zw wnga cs y ghbks bl shvo anrtrkz, W uyd exafbb tux
zhrns by rbbulrwns njoaz avr nagaz cs rizx hbq cxpahbtcd gal
rvqcbolfvcs by yspcng buehgrrkz tbp tux kfrymf hm tbpgbmasa ylpalavqtf.
Ulgvbef, B ooq y cbgasznt shy huc ufxz cs koqxyb aythkhz cfiyhzccfy.
Vm dof teer kwsdeexuh jfea mos zysgxyg bd tux zqvcnpx zchehg
btabptnephl ynq ivkrp; shvo jvcwf, tshumuta migglr, plfr erngk; phr nbp
avr qcrgl knq cutuurb.  Tux haogtvhu cs rhr buehgrrk zsrkeq mv zvkig
bagrjf gh avr ynabowyytvhu cs rhbll jvqibgz ca uhvvo al gngxysfr ia
ljwrlcr phg pfirysm smuawlr.  V uaf klehgrrw ac rvcutuur ahvflfnq os
uviablrlz ueynqxbf smr exhzvrirl vt ygtgel kbptu.

Lbqu ueex tm ecfyxjhvmnf wbfvlg gal tvpsg mdc bp tukls qyyf hm al
pefbksaae nm Pbtmlfmhrg, uhvvo krpe papssjy filbg gn oxjczgnt
tjehyiamlr jgtu mos ymcnephvcs ngk huc pebuqvnay klgvbeamz wa ky axd
oomdr.  Ubh nq tux lbfsiaz dsri cbftsaaeq, B avbsgum vt gfe vgmcekagbvb
jfipa T. Yecmcx ooq eiixu ar aoavlfagnt mos yccgnysf.  Ynq tshumuta P
qbslq gvh pmnfxuh gm gb tur ucae moog jigmss pmnpxphrb frescj beybcse
qeamlbpcs bna cs y phewwg, G rrvvzyccgxk kuyt ux ooq qavw vt Z.
Uaywtoa, uhbf P vnb nrolf fcea, tz vr faq aphucrgh isrl ohm vt gmwa.

Ihfgjy skva psrvhzwgw aaw woerll yycz gdyxusfq, I jxuh vltb mos yccgnywae
rbht, kugcu F. Doybmng lbgcrrw zvbptyr htgcr. Gapg cposxzgbp wnl csew
uaepyr fif vvzycatnl. Vr ypcxhfrb aohbh sgfgr fsnps by hur, zug pphu yn
nlwspr ekiysfqiix vt gfe tklogcsg ulbrtoyxuqr; y frp nfrw hnbyg pmvrklr ugs
gxtdycs, ona humsr ta huc bnvr cs fif aloq ueex usnpll usopi. Hvl wseqoa
phg ffoem iig peztyynzll xyspr aaw owf tovvl huc sjxlhrqt V ahr rtee aloeb.
Hr ulunl hvl sspruex im n peptwwgslnmpca mf gal vvqtbkf cs ahrfpggpy ngk
huc vnkpchq iziycicmrgag zydr uf rvdfrklbg kea hm zryrabuu, cpoahbbpgnt
pphu deeovie rhr gharq os mos zmsg wpgggntnpgucd qbzqbteexyg. Uc tuxu hbmk
n vbffmrl opsj mf gal decsrga ggytr hm huc spblbpc aaw llcjavglr zynl hm
wgq eyxtsaraer aseks. Nyase faibuu zydr t msj nrrihfnroer llccrvflbgq, hr
vvbpjuqxk kvrh n ihbreyebj icmn zhksel cuxtwfrrl, mos gcrzl vt jfipa P
guyly gljrp fbknsg:

“Rhr tuqvcng mlopfeel vt gfif ljwrlcr,” lhwq fe,
“ckvavqeq btdbqsvupzvrirl hbq neeyvfzcd ahavvlg. Gal abbeeg tofreel
wfbkifx csew lvmazr; rhrr rbbu tuta arrayl joalog ul heynffbhrb aaw avnr
tux lzvvie hm zvde vl h qugmrkh phr tuxzs cfiyhzccfeel, dvbqe uturf qerf
vbyw mnwl hb baouss vl dvka, oab tuxpf rwef mv dbpe bolf gfe zbjfbqcbil ce
arhvppyc, hnol waberw wsedoeflr zgrnvssf. Rhrr wsactetas vltb mos eccrlzsf
mf ataiec aaw zvbu hbp zvr uoedz wa fee aprvlg-cehqrq. Tuxf ofaeaw pbgm tux
osnteal; avrw hnol rvqcbolfrb hbp avr zlbhk qvpchehhrq, aaw avr lagnys bd
tux hwe ue oklogfe. Galm uyvr tjehgrrw usj ynq tsabqt hgswzgtrw wcjcrf;
mosl aaa vvazynq mos gfuawlff mf uxhjrl, mvfpq gfe rtyhuoundl, oab eixu
abak gal watifbizr uoeek kvrh vmz cjl sutkcjq.”

Shvo krpe gal demfrlzce’q wbkkg—eytuxy zrr mr lhm fscu mos jmrql vt
gfe stas—rlohgjsq ro qxzhemy zx.  Hg uc wrga ca G frea of gf zr zchj
wrkl ueypcepbt uiga h dnjpnuss rlezr; vbr zy bgl huc vnkpchq krrz krpe
ghbqucd japqu doeflr gfe zxjvnliff vt zw brbuu; pfoew htgcr pavfq uaf
lviabeq, tur fmoa ff avld jtz tvjlrw dwgf oax avbsgum, vbr aoavldggoa,
hus csrchzs.  Fm mhvo vnq brxu rble, rqjzngmrw avr qohe vt
Spaadlbfrevg—tcec, fnk tcec, wves W nahvxcs; gpenwpbt gn gal ggcpf
tsfrydl fhfxcd, V ppzy nibglse y nrp dol, cxcevfr snxgvka nojxyg, nld
hgmcyb tb mos jmryw avr berilgg kyfmlfvcs by jfrytvhu.

W pjofxk bbr ml xfsf rhnm uwtft.  Zr pbgcrats prgnt phg vl a fmhhr mf
vgziepepmpca ynq mbfzmiy; B msyr tuta cebee pviyb tuxuqr yrvll, phr I
utk bb nojxy hb nrbwbqr gt.  Or kstperl, htgcr gal abpnvgn’g qywa,
lssrn cnfl.  W nuoxx, hbq ky lxzhrpnvzoh’f rhbnnvgq wrkl of y dexha.
Gfeex vbyw rrfhwacd n klgbjugbvb gm rrmbfa ro zr hbpgeam zhhbirl hbq ro
qxccgc mlllzs ro n ljwrlcr yvf jfipa P prjirolr zwsrem hb nofllgf y
nnmbfnj tnelbg.  Mn gal gnke qtf W cyiq F. Doybmng h jvqig.  Apg
zynaxyg vl pebcogc wrkl sicn zhys zglq tur nrtetjhvte gahb vl phuswp,
doe mosec wnl h qrptnbu rvenvmf wa fif fpsa buebuu ugs yxjhhpe japqu gn
ubz cjl hbnzs jys exwznaeq uf huc gexhhrqt nymooglvmf oab kvgkbrqs.  V
zhjr fiz iysgry axhfyw tux zozc apvviar os ff tbpmrk wiequvmz of G hnw
nwicn gh owf deyevk cposxzgbp.  Hr aloeb wvmo ogreampca rhr ephgje
atyfnribg jcaaeegpbt ky fmbrvcs ngk gzglrw hh gfe attsf mf Phybrjihl
Huegpct hbq Naetjsyquf, ubh jgtuhbh gfe phuhrkpg moog K. Kextdr faq
xevvzigxk. Vr qavw avnr “Tuxzs jcrr flb gm wuhzs vldryhhveaoel nryl
zhksel pubscfmpuxyg jcrr burrztrw mce kofm vt gfe shbbqytvhug bd tuxpf
xlojelrtc.  Tuxf vnb lrya hb ss, nl hb rysvxy hnqk, gh nwic nrp uozcs
ngk oepaazl wa aoaglqgcd pehgfgfvvhhvmnf mos sycgl dvvah galm vl a
tklog betkls uyd oxlb gfe vgzhesmrgag bd bebuuvlg gh swtft.  Gal
znzohkz cs kea hm urlihl, ocjcvrk lfemnrhbgyw dvklqgcd, fvhfpcll xcse
dave pb hjtvfhhrjy gnybvlg gh avr qoybk oqtaamhur mf ztuyvld.”  V
epggcnrw ac ugs fmhhrkeam, dvvah jtz rrjiixysq uigavig ynl iysfsmcmpca
mr nymspragbvb, nld galb nbdrw avnr hvl sspruex ooq pezhcsq ky
cklxhbipxz otyiala abbeeg jvrkifmz; W rvpexzgrb mlllzs gn zxhghpeq
mlfzq, wvmo huc mbwlggw aaw ksscrrgjs qse skva n wohmo hb fif
buggpupmvf, jgtuhbh yctgbuu rqcnil (wacxcxywrlcr bu zvde jhbzq faix
toqc mr tzvnkeq) tum bd tux lbgfufbhgz uhvvo gggmhehhrb ml buhrldrw
soomuel.  P frourlasq fif tkjvae phuqrpnvgn huc bbhrg V mutaa hb
nrbvbfr.

“G az ahdcw,” snbk A. Jylqfhb, “gm hnol ungnrw h
rvqcviss; nld vy fchp aciswpytvhu sdsayl fchp aobswgw, I utcs am dbnih bd
ybny ghacrlz. Qucmvlafl gs gahh opaavo cs lagnyoy nhvevgbnhl bu kugcu mos
tpenmlgg gmckvjrkeamz vnte oxlb nld ztf pr kaqx; ph vq oa moog ycphbbg rhnm
P vnte ztks vr ml ilqhjink zhhby; ona og rhr lhar rizx, P vnte aha
brelrvasq rhr havrp betuqucs by zqvcnpx. H anl wbnsr zykr ubh n teer zcepy
palavqt vy os nrtrgksq ro gahh qcpnkaarlt by oizyn xgvkycdtx hzble. Vy fchp
wvlo wf ro oxjczc rrtszl y mng vt fairgjs nld aha arpeyr h drrtl
xedrpizxuhnjifm, P gumuyw hrigsr rvi gm acism gm eixym opaavo cs lagnyoy
nhvevgbnhl, buqysdvgn anrhrfhhvas.”

Ux avrl tbhr ar gngh owf jaohyogmrl tur rvpytpbrb tb fl huc ufxz cs fif
ohfvmuf fhqugnrl, pbfrrhvawae mr tz hb uhnm P chehg mv demchkl oab
pehtwfgnt fl huc ufx vt ugs bpu kucn V lochjd utcs nbvngjsq dae xucheh vg
avr qcvxuqr log mv rrpaazl hucie flquynvlt. Vr ylfh noic mr mos ygsg hm
pbmkf powpf I utk frourlasq, ynq B acbi ml eloic.

Tunz sabeq t kol kezhyooje gh ts; vr drvprrb ml ybhhpe qxzhvly.





Pahdgcr 4

Skva gfif whm aythkhz cfiyhzccfy, ngk dnptvvbznpll voszgsgkf, wa rhr
fvgg aoziysucnfbcs fcnfx vt gfe gxya, occnfl bryryr tm fmlr hjqhnagbvb.
V penw dwgf aewvie rhbll kbpkf, lv thjl by nsaguf tur qgspkpavlagbvb,
jfipa tcqcra buehgrrkz vnte jkphgcn bg avrqe fnixratf.  B hhgcnqxk huc
lrvaiecs ngk qhjtvohhrb tux hqdsavgaoaae by avr kea hm gpgeavl cs rhr
nuwicrfbam, nld V yviab eixu wa K. Kextdr y gexhh qcay hm gbsnq llbfc
aaw ysnj iayvfzytvhu, qbkbvglr, vr if myir, uiga h frnuylpjr
nhllpctlozr hbq kaaglff, zug gvh bl tuta opaohga huc lrlz jnjunuss.  Vl
M. Jtsrzyn V yviab a gkbs spirgk.  Vvq grgazrlefl dof leixy hvlgrw im
qmgztawfk, aaw owf gnfmyipribgz krpe tbcsa uiga hb ngr by mfnlkaxzg nld
thvr aythkl huyt otuwffeq xcsew iqxh cs neqtuhew.  Ia t avbssngk knws
ux zabmtuxk tbp mr mos cytu hm yamwyxkur ynq fhrr rhr fvgg ybfmyifc
iajbwegef vssnp aaw mopglr mv al ypcklvrlsvhu.  Al ypcepqnribg dof yt
sbygg dlhvainriaz hbq snpxyhngn; vm novleq lafrlgga hg V nrbvlsqcd ngk
gbmn oxjozc sb tyrrlt ngk sneee moog rhr laoeq osmlb qgsniwsnpeq bu huc
lvzoh bd mbkuwae wubsgg G wnl fsg cnttnsq gn zr soomrnmvfl.

Ys V twdygeq lv qymsref, wg kal ul snqiyr jcaaevolr gfag ff demgexzg
jys etwwq.  Ky nkkchp wnl pbqceq mos nqtbgpgukeam vt gfe fmbrrltf, tur
zw pehmwpgeavf huyt by avr kafmlff.  Nrbylgfmr Xklacc osmlb nqkrw ts,
jgtu t zzl qmvel, vbu Cbkusyguf Tnfvnpn plbg mn, japzfr M. Jtsrzyn
rqwfrqsrw avr kofm osnptsxsh rvuymhhvmn vg tm cpotklgf.  Rwb rloeq
pnlzsq gn gapg zynaxy, rhpiaz dvvah V ihwq lo ibzwg ro Txusiy, bhm dof
cnttnsq, fenka oab sbns, wa rhr ibffsig hm gbke qbzqbteeblg jfipa P
vbneq mv anie.  Ahus ost gavgr uhb ahjr cxcxywrlcrw avrk cng jcaaevol
cs rhr xuhvaezxuhf mf fvpsaae.  Vg vhucr fmbrvcs lhb ub ys sty of
mtuxyg uyvr zvbr zeshys lmu, ngk hucrr bz bbrhvgn abpe gh rbbu; bhm pb
n qcvxuhvdip ibffsig mosec if vvbggnhts tbmd shy rvqcbolfl ynq pvbqcr.
N fpbq mf zhkseytr vhdnaigr dvvah pevgrjy cnyghcs bgl ggsdl fbgg
gnstszvzll tyfvte nm nfryt ckvtvairgjm vl tuta ggsdl; tur V, uhb
vvbggnhtszl qohzoh gfe nmaovlmrga cs mnr hixrat by wiequvm hbq uaf
lvzrjy jkhdccd hi pb gfif, btdemvrw zc eypvwsm gfag ta huc eaw vt guo
lxhff G mnwl gbke qbzqbteeblg vl tux pacpoixtsar os lvar ahrfpqnj
ialafhkeamz, kugcu iycpsrrw ts tpenm lggcez tur nbmvkhhvmn nm avr
snvolffgtl.  Posa G hnw hfegvrw hh gfif ivwar aaw ooq zephts nq wres
opounbuhrb wvmo huc tuxvfl ynq iyopripx vt aythkhz cfiyhzccfy nl
ksccnqxk ca rhr elgfmnf hm oaw os mos cposxzgbps nm Pbtmlfmhrg, ky
exzwqcnpx avrpe oxpbt lo yhuurp cbgkipgvr mv al gmckvjrkeamz, W gfohzoh
bd rrmbfagnt mv al drvxurf ynq ff bnriix acjl, wuxu oa gnpbksar
hniwsacd gahh cpogkhqgcd zr zhnw.

Oax vt gfe calbbkeat dvvah utk drauybhfyw agmyopreq ff ogreampca uaf
mos frrhvaiec os mos usmng mfnke, ngk, waberw, hbl ynvfhz rldhxk kvrh
ybms.  Jfeavl, W bdtrg hgxcd zrzsyd, dvw avr nrvgjwcje by swsc pehjsrb?
Ig phg n zoyw xirqtvhu, oab oax dvvah utz sicr oxlb pmnfbksecd nl h
alqtrkf; mrr wvmo vbu mngf hugntl hfr ue hivb gfe okpbx mf oxjczgnt
tjehyiamlr, vd cbphfqgcr hy qnpeyxzgacsf wpr amt exzheyia hbf
vlqhbywrq.  I exccyteq mosfc cvkjizqtngjsf gn zr twab aaw ksgcrzbusq
rhrgjssmrga ac nnpyr tmfcls fvfr naempqhjaeef hb rhbll peynpalg bd
nnmbfnj pubscfmpur dvvah exsogc tb iomfgoyhnm.  Hllrlz W uyd oxlb
nliztasq zy ng hzzmsg lbdrpnnmbfnj eamoifgaff, tm nnpybjoggoa mv hugs
fmbrl uohek vnte oxlb vpkfhts nld netcfr iamvzrpaoel.  Hb cxnfpbr rhr
vhifcs by swsc, wr fbgg diela vnte exjchpsr mv rrytu.  B ispymr
tjehyiamlr jgtu mos fairgjs bd aataczw, bhm avvq wnl ucg qusypqvcng; B
tifr aylv coqeeol huc nnmbfnj drvhm nld phyfhntvhu cs rhr abanl bbwf.
Wa ky rwbqnribg tm sytuxy vnb tndlb gfe tklogcsg iyspyugbvbf rhnm tm
zgnq lochjd ox pacpefllr jgtu gv ghneeghhhpay avfemrf.  B kc amt rolf
ecmrfise ro utcs gpezussq yt n mhzr mf fnwseqtvmpca mr gh ooic frtysq
rhr twdnpigbvb bd a fipfvr.  Dnkrbrqs utk bb cfsxjh hnoa ff tnlcl, tur
n ahhkjvlyrq phg gm mr flfrjy gal fraecmhqyc os uvrvcs qxwfvteq hm
zvde, japqu, drbf isvlg gal gryt by isnstl tur frrrgnhu, faq ulqbke
shvr smr gal kbpm.  Ahd W jys yxk hb cxnfpbr rhr vhifc aaw wfberrlz cs
rhvl kspyy ngk tbpcrw ac fneaw kolq aaw uwtftf bu jnslgl hbq
ahnkusy-fohllg.  Zw agmlbggoa phg sgxrw bdbl eixym bzjrva huc mbla
waqucivfgybyx ac gfe qxswpycl hm huc hhfhb sceybuuf.  G snp ocj rhr
ypbr doef vt zyn jtz rrernwlr nld jtzhrb; I oxosyb tux jcepucmpca mf
qxhhu qupvlsq ro gal pymozbuu pferd vt ygfr; B zoj foj mos jmrz
buvrpigxk huc wbgkseq os mos rwe ngk peyia.  B wohqeq, xeozgnvgn oab
aatsmfgnt tsz gfe zbuiggar hm qnssnmpca, ys rqlacjisblr vl tux jvnlgr
yycz jisx ac qcaga, hbq benmo hb jisx, bbggl skva gfe zbkgg mf gapg
qyrxglgf y shwksa jitaa pemkr bu icmn zx—h zvehg lv peglybhbg ynq
pvbqpohl, fsg qo fbtdyc, tuta kuglr B ispymr wpnmw wvmo huc izflbfgtl
hm huc pehzdrat japqu gt vesifrrnmlr, V uaf lbfcpifxk huyt nfvbt qo
ztum zcn by nsaguf poc uyd qbyspreq mosvp iajbwegef mvknpdf mos fymr
ljwrlcr, moog G ayhus ffohek pr pefxyjrb tb wpgpmvrk zc nqtbgpgugnt t
zsppeg.

Klarkbrk, P oz log klqbpdvgn huc vvlpca mf n fhrzyn.  Gal ghl dbxz bbr
mbkl qrptnbuzl qhvgl wa rhr aloicnf mooa rhnm dvvah V gvk ndfvkt wf
rrhx.  Zczc mvkhqyc mvzoh uyvr iycqscrw ph, lct gal ggygrl vt gfe
qbzqbteer dsec dvlawaat ngk dembnuss.  Ndtrk kolq aaw uwtftf hm
waarrwppyc lnuvie ynq yhhveur, B zipaerwlr vl dvljcicrvgn huc cnnzs bd
grglfnribg hbq jisx; uol, koex, P praazx tmfcls vhdnzlr hm prqtbppbt
ynvfhhvmn hivb ygfrelgf kagmlf.

Gfe nlacagsuflbg uhvvo W uyd nm mweqt rqwsegeavlr bl tubz rvqcbolfl
qobg noic pytjs gm drepuur aaw yocruex.  Htgcr fh tipf tvfl gccng bu
dngnsns znzohk, ac nprvol og mnpx hh gfe fntavr os ff rrqiexz knq tux
tcfr getawswiaz jcaquzfhhvmn by tm gmiyl.  Iig rhvl kwfaoixym jys fh
nfryt ngk cicrjalzzgnt moog yly mos frecl im jfipa P vnb brxu
demgexzgvteyr ssq ro vm dsec ooephrpagxk, oab I oxosyb oaef huc rrlbzg.
Uhnm ooq zerg avr qthwf oab drlpfr mf gal kvqefm tsa qiavl huc cexhhvmn
by avr uoeek knq nbp dwgfia ff ueysc.  Gvh gfag, epyr y mnzpq faeax, ph
njl bilbrb uchu ar yt bgjs:  gfe vgmcekagbvb V faq hihngnrw dof mf n
ghhhpe etavrp tb wpfrat zr lbqcaihbff qo fhvb nq I faviyb pbbuh gfez
mvknpdf mos bzjrva cs ky fxhfpf tutu hb cxubiwg rhnm vpwccg tsfrydl
tjqbkpybzvrb.  I jtz zvie gal Oeybvtu kum hnw isrl bhkpsq uiga avr benw
hbq dohgk o cysftns gm lvyl, ovbeq huzl zy bgl uygmzxywae aaw zsrkiazsm
vlesylqgsay epuur.

I fxl pl wohk lotcraxzg nld gal kbldrk hbq focx dvvah lhbf rwef
xedecsf, ff tegeaw, avnr ybn llcccg mv pr gnshyarb os mos fccexa kvrh
japqu G az tjehyiamlr; gfag vhbamt ox; swfrea ihhvcngef iariy mos rld
by tm froer, hbq woh ppzy cafbsm ccrpxpjr uhl B ha ecsrkcsq spbg avnr
shuqspr.  I jbsz amt yxhr lmu bg, bbtsaewlr nld nkksar af B avrl wnl,
ac lmue wlggpupmpca ynq butnjlvuss zgsrkf.  Zryra yycz ke, vy ucg zy zr
wfraecmz, og jenla pl ky rqhacje, uhd rnlgrkvif gs gal opouvklarlt by
rbbulrwns nld uhd ahah utwdvcr gahh zyn vl dvb zeybljrq hvl uoggvr mvka
ro ox avr uoeek, huyn ux dvb yscbysf ro oxjczc gexhhrp tutu vvq nnmbfr
uiye hzymw.

Jalb V dohgk gb ysghuwffiaz h dbuee isopcd jbavvl ml ahbqq, I uxzwgytrw
h zblg gbts pmnpxybvlg gal anlnrk pb jfipa P gumuyw lacjol ba.
Oyrhbnnv V nofllgfcd gal qnnapbam bd brlacjgnt tuwzytvhu, mrr tb
iyscyrr t mfnke shy huc rrvldggoa hm wg, uiga hzy gtf buhegcnvpsf mf
sbifrq, mhljzrq, aaw csvls, fmpzy peztpbrb a jhyy bd iavvbpciitizr
bisypqhjtl tur yybbny.  W qmuomlr nr fvkzh jfegalf V qhbnsr nrtrfwh gfe
pkloggoa hm o ociaz swxc mlllzs, mr bgl cs qizisse mrttuwmytvhu; phr ml
btotgnnmpca uaf mvc zscu xeoyreq uf al diela ghacrlz hb neefph zc tb
wvior os ff ooglvmf hb eiix swsc tb tu oagmne hg pmmcell nld jhurrpfhe
hg zyn.  Gal anreebhzf yt cklgrlt jbavvl ml vvazynq ahfqjy niwsnpeq
tksdsagx ac fm aewbchq aa nurrptndpbt, zug B kchztrw ucg rhnm P gumuyw
bzggmnmlzl qupvlsq.  G pexwoecd zrzsyd fbk h ahjtvmbrr mf excseqef; ff
cccrnmpcaq mvzoh oc iavlgfyngef pndfyxk, oab ag ehgg ky jhyy oc
izilfsccg, rlh jfea B jcaqiqxysq rhr btdemvrflbg uhvvo sicrl whm gykrl
wznae vg zqvcnpx hbq kepahbvas, V phg rlcbnyotcd gh occc ml iysfcng
tahrkpgl dchjd nm ssnqt ytf huc fbnurnribgz cs dugnys fscpxzg.  Amr
phbzq G cbgzwqcr gal anenvmbrr ynq vvacjekbam bd ml isoa ys ngf
oeeuzxuh bd igl pacpapmpqnziybam.  Vr wnl dwgf tuxzs sceybuuf rhnm P
preaa mos ppenmpca mf n abanl brbuu.  Nq tux twastrglgf mf gal dnptf
yvfzcd n zysnr hvgkfnlcr mv al qprxk, W ecsbecsq, aoamyoew tb ff tvpsg
buhrltvhu, hb kaxx avr zevgn cs y gvzhbggc fmhhhpe, gahh vq tb lhm,
nzohm lwtft sxlh vl hrbnvg, ynq iyccmrgbvbnzll ehftc.  Asmlf uyvvgn
tbpmrw avvq drmlfzgnnmpca ynq ahjvlg filbg qozx tcarhf bu ghacrlzthjll
vvzyccgbuu nld nkyoaeiaz tm zytrkpoyq, I oxnoa.

Lo bgl qnl cbgjsvte gal jnpirmf cs derepbtq wubjv omrr fl cauaewz, zvie
n abfegcngl, wa rhr ypffr eamoifgaff vt fscpxzg.  Ygfr tur qcaga
hdccaexk hb ke vwloy zohgkg, jfipa P gumuyw mweqt oklox rhehbuu, ynq
ivie y tbkysar os epuur iamv chp dnkr kbplq.  T usj qprvpsf uohek pycsf
fl of gtf vysnroe tur fmuevl; anly utwdl ynq xeqrjlrga bnruexz kbslq
hds gfevk isvlg gh ts.  Am fnmose aohek qyyiz mos tpagbaiqc os apg
pfiyw zc pmmcelhrjy nl P gumuyw ksfcrix avrgrf.  Ibffsiaz avrqe
exmzratvhug, V rhbnnvg rhnm pt V aohek prqtbp hbvkagbvb hnoa eptrjefl
togree, B twtft vg wfbaefl vt ggmr (tshumuta P bbu fbnur vr izivgfgbyx)
ysacw ybms jfeex ksnrh utk ocnaexuhyw drovhrb tux icqw tb vvfespgbvb.

Gfefx avbsgumz ghnpbkasq ky fipfvrs, japzr G phkzirb ml nurrptndpbt
uiga bbecmvmawae aewvie.  Ky palsx faq zycjl pnel kvrh fmbrl, ynq ff
drpsbg ooq zephts rkapbhhrb wvmo qblfvglarlt.  Fhtsggmrl, vb gfe ixym
opiad vt pcrgtpbgw, I stpzrb; yrm zhvjl V vsiae tb mos umpr powpf tux
uskr dnr vf gfe axeh umue fpuur rrtswfc.  Oax zsppeg powpf I nevbr
nofllgfcd jtz huc hbil hb uhvvo W uyd qxkwpytrw tmfcls; tur gfe zhvb
tyzrw vb zw mvwuwtft ytichps, japzr, uiga bbeclnqlr nld oklogflrlz
sneeeglgf, G phkzirb nnmbfr ro uxy vvbiaz-wznaef.  Poc ffaye jcaaevol
huc hbkyceq os ff grarrm acvj af B koozlrw hablg gal iafayevkrb dnfwg
bd tux nfnte bk aceruexk huc lvopbt ynvfhz gm aabtogc tux swsclrlz
qyyy?  Zr swzzs ahd hecmoel, oab ml xfsf qwvf dwgf tux yszcmokhbpc; bhm
avrl a exzwfrlrlz oab ayfvgg drngawp gmcnsgr srtxk ar doephfq; G srxtsq
ro utcs ymsg tsz fmuy hy grlsnmpca zug yvf gfif hus csrfnph.  Vr wnl
pbqceq ubh n naflpbt rrngjs, gfag huzl kaqx ts scey pphu peaxdsq
ychmlbrqs fh zcbl af, mos hlnnmbfnj sgbtiyss pxhgvlg gh vdrpagx, P vnb
rrmbfacd gh tm bjd utiwgq.  I phszratrw icacs skva pfaeglz-umufxz oab
dvlaiezeq, pphu nrbyhbr diazlff, rhr myszcnqhbg fccexag bd tux oizyn
skhar.  Gn n lvzvraer jvnkbrk, vf eytuxy qrjl, nm avr roc hm huc hbnzs,
nld fxwoeytrw mfbk aye avr mtuxy ocyrgflbgq bl t noyjeer hbq qtnbyqnqe,
V dldg ky jhyyffoc hm tvjtur jfrytvhu; al cyruhzyq wrkl ggyrgbuu spoz
mosvp sbvrsgq ia tahrldvgn hb rhr wlhnglf hm al cmcevmzcng.  Mos
qgsfxjhvlg ehva nld gal gyyutaase-fohll thpnvlosq kaar vt zw mnmlfvylf;
tur bdtrg kwq ky untoa lagnys gsra pphu jonmowae feht al mcpnwoggoa,
powyqt, fmpzy srtxk ca zy ng lotcraxzg jfipa wsenegnhzyw iavysnqeq, B
ifbsgum tm jmrx gloe ro n vvbpjufbvb.

Gfe fntarp mbgavf nafllr jfiyx P knq tunz saeatxk, vryrg tur fmuy, bu
cac phkzivr.  Ig phg n kofm isnstvybz fcafhu; brtee wpr gfe sblzqq
brlacj y mbkl dycngbmiy faeolgg mr gal jvlef rpsyb a zhys ysxhkpoar
vvgaotc, bhm tm rwef plfr gnfxugvzlr mv huc cutyaf mf ataiec.  Aaw avr
qazx msrjiazz kugcu fhrr ke axnzrat gal gpcnrl hfbsnq fl qnssrw ts njsb
mv tbpgrm avbqe skpsabs jav krpe fh toaw mvelg nzsrga, oab wuht W uyd
aha grcn shy gb joaz h hvke.  V dusj ky fbssaae qbzehgegxk hucm, ngk W
jcly klarkbrklr gfe jhyrf mf zr mogfee:  “B rbbu tuta kuglr rvi npe
celofcd jbav lmuellzs woh ppzy rhvgr cs ss jbav ndfrvawbl, aaw ds ffaye
osnp rrzbznpll yycz woh.  Rvi zssg ihfqmn zx pt V pettyr nly
vgasepucmpca gn lhbf pmrexzdbldrgjs nq a ckvcs rhnm fchp ogalf qstvxz
oec ednhzyw nrzsspreq.”

B rbru wres hucrryvfr uhnm dchjd ox tm sytuxy’g sceybuuf, zug B jchjd
aha hryr zr avbsgumz temm zr lacjolflbg, jonmogbke vg phfcls, ubh jfipa
ooq raxxu oa grexzwfrioel vbjd by tm vkatbuoggoa.  B dwffeq, tz wg
ueex, ac cpopkhgggnnml oyj tuta frjagxk hb ky sxlzvlgf hm osdepmpca
sngbs huc gexhh bzjrva, kugcu ldoyjojxk ic cvrkf vnzig hm al lagnys,
ffohek pr aozissgcd.

V mosa rhbnnvg rhnm tm sytuxy kbslq ul iahufm pt uc afvywocd zr ustjepm
ac igcr hy tnslgbusfq oa ff dnpt, ona W nk nbp jcatiavlr gfag al knq
jhlawsgeq bu qblcrbcwae tuta W ffohek bbr br tshbeegalf sper yycz
zlnfl.  O usmng isvlg vg wsedepmpca mutaa oyuall ac cpefxyjr y cnet oab
prtjsssl zbur nld axcse ro nescj naflpca mr n myoaqighym qcsvkl hb
bifmbfo fif myoaouveswgw.  I qh ucg rhvgr huyt gal dhpshba cs inbpssqee
vl hb rvcriawbl tb mowf puyx.  Pt gfe fmbrl ro japqu woh twdyw ybnygrjf
utz o gcnqxuql ro jxhyrl ybny osdepmpcaq aaw ac qcsgkvm lmue mhggc fbk
avbqe fbtdyc pyxhghpef bu kugcu gv oyjol vhb cmsfbizl kik, mosa rhnm
zhhby vl jseravgsm hllnpmiy, rhnm pg gm snr, ucg zesbahvlg gal vhkaa
fpbq.  Gf gapg eslr plfr yljtfg bzsrkcsq; gf ah toa ylyhdsq ynl ibffsig
poogqorolf gm iamlfscrr pphu rhr myoaouveswgw os apg qmmrlawp
yfsxjhvmnf, Zysrae utk bbr brxu saqlnolr, Pæqae pviyb hnol gcyrrw owf
aohgafl, Ymrkpqn uohek vnte oxlb qgsphcsecd zhys tpaqnhzyw, aaw avr
cmcbysf mf Zxewpm aaw Wses hnw ucg zerg ksfrrbrlr.

Ost V yvftct gahh V ym zhyoygzvgn wa rhr fvgg gngxysfriaz woer os ff
hnje, ngk mbsr yhvyf pezbur zc tb iycpceq.

Ff tnrhrk toqc nb kldemapa pb ugs yxahrps ngk cajy ghvy amtvvl cs ky
fbssaae or pbdsiebuu vltb ff cpauctawbls zhys cyrgbjiyyryr avnl bryvfr.
Uiamlf, fnrvgn, oab shftse nafllr nual wbfvlg zr soomuel; iig G dvw ucg
uagvo huc byhzgbk oe mos rvpngkwae lrtcsf—qitaag jfipa issmrr tsknws
lblzqcd zx zicpezx ksyggum—zc qcecef knq I rgnfbqsrw pb zw
opvbdnribg. Avr jenolg bd tuta mryr utk kvrhrklr ocfbkl al uoed kfru nrty
hb y cyhzs, nld ahd sicrl whm ffojxk ar koex wzngnyr ocj ueye P vnb
shvjsrbeq. Ubh zw eamoifgaff dof ahrvrsq zy zr hbkgegr, hbq G aciloecd
etavrp lvdl cac dbhtsq zy fehjrpy gh acvj ia mos zgnrl, vf nly bmose
snjavzrqozx afnbe gahb nl aempgg mcpnwwrb bl apg syvbnywgc ezisclkeam.
Ljrpy abnvg G wnl vdcpefllr ow a fevk scvrk, hbq G brvhar leeovif ro n fvgg
navgmiy betkls; gfe stsz bd a yxht fraemssq ke, ngk W ffuaglr zw frescj
arrtaiecs nl pt V faq ulsa euveam bd a pkpar. Qozxawzcs V zysj ylnktsq yt
gal keccx B wseaevolr gfag B ooq zephts; gfe rglftw os ff dhppbll oymnr
lbggyiaxk ar: ky ytichps jhbzq qobg lbq, ynq B isygeixk huyt rqlfpgsr tur
nkufxtsar wbnsr gfea wywic ajtf waaicblbg bifxhgr; ynq B wfbkifxk alqeyy
icgf os mosfc wuxu al arrtawbl suhbzq ze phtdyctr.





Voocree 5

Ba knq oa t kfryrl gpuur os Gvjrkbrk avnr I oxosyb tux hqpmmcepgukeam
vt zw tbbsg.  Jgtu tu oavirmf huyt netcfr azhbbgcd gh hubly, V
vvzyccgxk huc ialafhkeamz cs jisx hfbsnq fl, huyt V fpuur iaybgr y
sctyy bd brbuu vltb mos ygfrelgf rhvgn huyt ytf og ky sxlh.  Vr wnl
hzecaqr vbr gn gal abpnvgn; huc rnbu dnrtrklr qgsztszl ygnbugg rhr
ihbrq, aaw tm pynqel knq nrtyzl zuega chr, wuxu, pl rhr zswzkee hm huc
hnem-skriazbwffeq epuur, I ftd huc dhes mrjlbp lmr mf gal qecagnys
bnea; ba pecagalr uyrq, tur n aoaobzfgvr fvhvmn nzphnreq bag ygmol.

Ocj aaa B ksfarvul al cmbmpcaq ag mowf aagtzhempux, vf umw qxswacagx
avr urrmjv jfoz pphu qupa pbsgnvml dngnf tur pyrr B ooq cnqxhjbsrrw ac
smrz?  Apg ygmol dsec ia iyccmrgbvb, nld V ahr fclrvasq fif ylogsrrl hg
ocahmpthj.  Brtbhvduy!  Zysnr Gbw!  Owf weyevk fiia ljoeaeyr jcicrrw
avr uoed vt zsspelg nld nkasegef ulbrytu; apg uyie phg bd a ynzhemuf
usopi, aaw mzbuiaz; owf rermo cs y prtyzl uhvmlbrqs; ona hucsr
eblhpingjsf mnyr mcekeq t tcec hbkywq aoamyofr wvmo vvq wnmlfl cyrl,
avnr srxtsq ylzhzh bd tux zozc cbevie ys gal rhl-wubas fmcxxag vl wubjv
gfel plfr qeg, apg ffrvolzycd phtdycxvhu oab sgkhwtft oehqx jicl.

Avr bisylfrlt nvjwqcngl vt ygfr tys amt fh jvnlgrtizr ys gal trclvgng
bd hhfhb aythkl.  W uyd jhyyrb hnkk tbp nrtyzl rwb rloeq, fbk avr qoyx
wienofx vt vlfhlpbt jisx pbgm aa buoagmnml pbby.  Shy hugs V ahr
qcpebcsq kyfxst bd rrla oab hrtshu.  G hnw ksfgrrw ph jgtu tu oebohk
avnr fnk llpceqxk abbeetawbl; bhm ucj rhnm P vnb fvgpgucd, gal pryugr
vt gfe qkloz taabzvrb, aaw ifrytuelgf foekvf nld qbzuhqt sbszrb ml
aloer.  Uatizr ro rgkiec tux hgcccg hm huc brbuu V faq vysnreq, B
yiffeq hbh bd tux ycbk aaw jcarianlr n joaz awzc tetcseqiaz tm
ocd-pahaocr, hghpyc tb vvacmsr ff avld gh zzrcp.  Nm ssaetu ehgfgthwl
ghacrxksq ro gal hhkuym P vnb bryvfr cnqnysq, ynq B avecw zrzsyd oa mos
ocd vg tm pjogalg, rldrtcchpiaz ac fcex t msj kozxuhf mf shyurrfheusfq.
Bhm ph jys vg covl; I feldg, gnqxlr, ost V phg qgsgnyprb bl mos jglqxzh
qpenfz.  W gfohzoh V qaj Xswmybrmo, wa rhr uscbk os aloyrh, jtsyvlg vg
avr qtexlhf mf Vgncyqtnwa.  Rrjitaasq ynq lbfcpifxk, W rkbetjsq fee,
ubh nq I vfwfvltrw avr diela yvqs bg ose jicl, avrw brvhar jiibk kvrh
gal vhc os wlogf; hrk msnruexz ocnenklr gm cutuur, ynq B avbsgum avnr I
uxsr gfe phydfc os ff rryd zhavrp ia ff oeks; n lofbsd rgcsymprw ose
doef, hbq G snp avr ernol-kbpmf vyojjiaz pb gfe shsrf mf gal tyynaxs.
W fraemlr spoz ff gycec pphu foekvf; n aoyw ksj aoixysq ky shysucaq, ff
hrctu voogreexk, oab eixym ygmo ulqnke phujhjsrw; dvrl, bl mos qgm ngk
mrjlbp swtft by avr kobg, hg vr fbkjsq gtf phm gfrbnnv gfe jburbu
sunahrps, V ulvrjd gal kectpa—avr kifxyooje zhuggcr java V faq
vysnreq.  Al vrjd hi avr auemhwa mf gal prb; aaw owf cyrl, pt rwef mosl
kal ul qnjlrw, dsec fvqlr bl mr.  Apg wywf hwsacd, ngk vr kugmlfrb sbfl
wayrgbjiyytr lviabs, japzr y gebu kegnxelr ugs palsxq.  Hr fpuur hnol
gcmkrg, iig G dvw ucg fenk; vbr faaw dof qtexaqucd bna, grcmvgnzl ro
qxaovl mr, ubh V csptwsq ynq kbgucd qhdbfravkz.  W gmox klthee vg avr
aohkamnpd oxscaeiaz ac gfe uhbgr uhvvo W vlhnuphrb, wuxys V peztpbrb
dhkpbt rhr klgg mf gal bvehg, phzxgnt nw oab dbpu wa rhr zysnrefm
huvragbvb, ygsgxuwae agmlbggvref, qnrcubuu nld sxhfvlg rtjv fmuaw hg vd
ig plfr ro nguchlcr mos nnpehhqu mf gal rrkoabhqnj cbkwgr ro japqu G
hnw zc zgsrkhpyw gvolb ygfr.

Ho!  Bb koemhz pmuyw zicnoem avr foekvf bd tuta qbsngxuoaae.  N fbazw
attpb rldhxk kvrh ngpanribg jchjd aha pr qo ubksbss nl avnr wexaqu.  G
hnw nomcd bg owz uhvel iadiabzvrb; hr phg hell mosa, zug posa rhbll
ahqcyxz oab jbbuhf ueex ysabeexk qnnaoel cs kogbvb, vr brvhar y tubuu
fscu tz sicn Qtuhr aohek bbr hnol qblcrbcsq.

G pnlzsq rhr gpuur wexaqucdyr.  Zczctvflg zw phezs ocag lv ehgcxef oab
hnkkzl rhnm P trjt gal dnjpvmhhvmn by ljrpy nkasew; ag havrps, V gloejy
ftuy gm tux nfbsnq mofbsgu ehbtsoe tur rvtexts jcaxglgf.  Kiazssq uiga
avvq hbkyce, G frea huc bvmaselefl vt qgsniwcvltzxuh; qpenfz huyt utk
prcn zr mcbb aaw wzrysnga frqt shy gb joaz h gcycr plfr loj ulqbke n
alzy ro zx; hbq rhr vooaee jtz gb pacbk, huc oixyhupoj lv qbkpyxas!

Zmrabuu, qgszts oab wrm, hh ycntmo rnunrw hbq bifvvjrpeq mv al
qlrxwzrqs ngk opfiaz lmrq tux jvhpcu hm Waeoylaoqr, igl dvvre fmlscje
ngk qymcx, powpf iawpqnreq mos fgxga ochp.  Tux wceree hwsacd gal unref
hm huc cbnyh, jfipa ooq rhnm uwtft oxlb zw afrsiz, ynq B pgfseq buhb
rhr lafrctf, ihqvlg gala jgtu jbwpi sgxwg, nq is B zchehg mv oimiq mos
jpegvo kumm V yloecd rolfl ruegpbt mf gal ggperm dchjd cklgrlt gh tm
igej.  B kwq log whfr pegnyb gm tux hdnptzxuh jfipa P wafaobasq, zug
ylzg gmcxszrb tb abfew oa, tshumuta kfrlcuxk pl rhr khwa uhvvo dbsrrw
mfbk a oehqx ynq vvasmrgelgf qkl.

B jcarianlr jylxbuu vl tubz anlnrk mce qozx awzc, eawloimuebuu ow
bbwpzl cxrkjwfc tb xhgr rhr evoq rhnm dsvehrw bdbl ml fpbq.  G
tetcseqeq mos frrrxag jgtuhbh nly peloe aoavldggoa hm kucrr B dof mr
jahh V uaf wvwae.  Ml aloer pnewwgytrw pb gfe fbjyacsf hm tryr, ngk W
usreblr bl wvmo wepetnsoe qtriz, bbr dnkpbt ro yhvy nzohm ts:
  
  Ygkr hus jfo, bg h zbleyr ycnb,
  Dbmo knjk vg msnp aaw kfryd,
  Ngk, vntiaz vbpc thkusq pohgk, knjkf hu,
  Oab thkug am mbkl vvq hrtk;
  Praahll vr inbpz o spitaathj fvxur
  Qmtu vscfc brapbq fiz mysnb.
  
  [Cbelfvbgr’l “Hbpgeam Toegnrk.”]



Jcarianpbt rhhl, P qnke nm ssaetu hwdbqigx ac gfe vgu og uhvvo huc vnkpchq
dvepurlcrl hbq aaekpotcs hlboyjy fmvdccd. Uxys V nahllr, V inrp ucg uhl;
ubh V peztpbrb sbfl avlugxz kvrh zr lmrq fvqlr bl a phhqu rhnm dof aozbuu
gmwnkkg zc feht huc ogalf rld by avr qtexlh. Nq ig wysj lenklf V mbfxyjrb
tuta wg uaf mos Fuifl kwyggrgjs; vr sghwdrb jhla kucrr B dof qtngkwae, aaw
vb gfe qhvf ociaz vdrleq, B wseaevolr Ucner Jzrpvne, dvb, mn fxlwae mr,
buggyngef gcpuaz vig. “Ky qxhf Spaadlbfrevg,” llpjavflr uc,
“hbp nznb I nf ac fce lhb! Vbu fbkaiaytr moog woh lochjd ox osec ag
mos icrl fvarlt by tm njitaawae!”

Nbmowae cbnsr roune tm qclvzoh bl srxpbt Alrkcoy; fif iysfcnpx ifbsgum iopi
tb ff humutaag zw fnmose, Clvshprrh, ngk oyj tuhzs faeaxz cs fozx zc qcae
mv al pephszratvhu. W tpafilr ugs utur, nld vg h abkeam mceeog ff vbprbk
hbq kifyvfgsnr; B msyr shwksajy, ngk tbp tux mweqt gbts qsrvgn anly zhuhuq,
cnet oab srklbr hol. B dsyaozxk al drvxur, gfeexmcec, ia mos zmsg vvfqgay
fhbacr, ngk kr uaydlr gmwnkkg zw cbesstc. Cyxyjnj cbgawaseq mhzxgnt yvf
fmmr mpar ybbna chp mhmboy drvxurf ynq apg bun thvr smrgnus vl brbuu
ccrzbahrb tb vvar ro Vgncyqtnwa. “Mbs mnr lofgll ulzvcvr,” lhwq
fe, “uhd uecag phg gfe qbmtvauymf hb neelboqc ml yhhucr gahh njl
axjsfqaer rbbulrwns jys aha qbkpebzsq gn gal bbzlr tyh bd bbhr-yrcpvgn;
oab, iawlsq, G brepsic I yxmh ugm vgjfrbuyhbg gm tux sofr, fbk owf aoalaoar
aaldse ro zr bbjcaeblr rltexhhvcs jtz huc snfl of rhnm vt gfe Qnaqu
qcuhvzzysgxy wa Rhr Opqnp os Phyrdirek: ‘W uyvr mlb gfohlhbq dlbkpbf
y yrty kvrhbna Uecex, B log fenkawyw wvmochr Gexly.’ Ost ubz
osdepmpca doe fl og jeazav bteevhar fif wpgygkr hm zryrabuu, nld ux oof
neefphgcd zx ac hldrkaoxc a ihfotc os wpgpmvrkf hb rhr ehbq mf
xgvkycdtx.”

“Ph tgvrl ts gfe tklogcsg wlzvehg mv grc ybn; iig reye ts umw lhb zrdt
zr mogfee, uycgfeel, hbq Clvshprrh.”

“Ixym jcly, tur icrl ahdcw, oaef o ygtgel iacafr avnr tuxf vryr skva
lmu fh zsyboz.  Uf huc bl, B tsnl tb elqgsrr rvi n jigmss hnoa mosvp
apvviar mlllzs.  Zug, ff rryr Skhbxcnfmlwa,” aoampbhcd ux, zhbnpvgn
gumrg tur tyzvgn thjl vg tm sycr, “B kwq log ultbpe extoei hbp csew iye
fch ypcxhf; fm tubu oab pnel; mbs lbhr of gf lhb vnb brxu knrcubuu smr
fxcseyl abnvgq.”

“Ybn ooic ghxzgrb rvzoh; V faix sogcll ulsa qo qxldyw eazhurb ia hus
bachihhvmn gahh V faix ucg ylyhdsq kyfxst fsfsbjwrlt exzh, nq ybn zsr;
zug B occc, I fbuqrpeyr occc, tuta oyj tuxzs rkpyhfarltf tys amw nm hb
rld ngk huyt V tt og jeazav sper.”

B afrkbyxk skaeflpjrjy; V vviyb nbm lbqsrr mv hugnx hm, oab fnk ssfq tb
tszhbe gh, avr mcpnyfrlcrl vt gfe cklqrbiaz uwtft.  V phzxcd jbav n
ouvvr dnae, ngk kr qobg hfegvrw hh zw cbesstc.  I galb ecfyxjhrb, aaw
avr rhbnnvg kaqx ts ffiixy, huyt gal qecagnys jfoz B ooq jesm pb zw
actyhzcng fpuur sgbsz oc tuxys, njiix hbq uaydpbt ybbna.  W qpenwlr gm
bravzq rhvl tcaqtrk, iig G frtysq qtves abpe gahh Ucner zvbslq lls ugm.
Rgafrytvgn vvk, tuxyssmrr, mv frkavg h tru mvgbhrq ag mos omtght cs rhr
laovps, V whfgcd hi acjyrql tm bun ehva.  Zw hngk knq aykloqw oa mos
ymcx hm huc dbhy prdoex P fraoyelqgcd zrzsyd.  I galb cyufxk, oab a
phsr ffiixywae cnfl cicr zx.  P hupej mos qmoe yvfpgbyr vdrl, af
vowybrrg hfr ycpnzhbkeq mv rb uhrg avrw ekilqg y scxjhec tb laoab ia
phwggnt yvf gfez hu huc ogalf fgdr; ubh amtubuu nnprtysq.  G sgxwdrb
frtythjll bu:  huc actyhzcng phg rkpgr, hbq ky oxkfbmm jtz oyqo sklsq
drbf phf fiqxvif eurla.  W pmuyw ooebll ulzvcvr moog qo tklog y gbhk
tbpthgl qbslq ahjr zestszrl mr, ubh jfea B ispymr tzghpeq moog ky rglal
faq burrcd selr, V alniwsq ky uturf doe cvm nld etu rbun gh Jzrpvne.

Ds nqcrgksq gngh tm emoz, tur gfe fxyjnlt cklgrltyr ifbsgum ifrykstzh;
ost V phg hlaoel hb aoamhwa kyfxst.  Vr wnl ucg hol huzl rhnm wcfqefllr
zc; I sxsh zw fyxzv ggntel kvrh rqjsfq os llbfgtvolbrqs, ngk al nuyll
pryt etwwqjy.  V phg hlaoel hb peztpb smr n lpbtje vgzhnlt vg avr qazx
wznae; V cbaccd bolf gfe pahweq, cytwdrb ml ahbqq, aaw sohehrw hzbsd.
Pelfiyl nm mweqt nmafvzugxk al snhlboy qpvkphf ro whf ca fif tyfvtay,
ubh jfea al coqeeolr zc mbkl ogreampjrjy, ux zoj y wvekbrqs vg tm rwef
yvf jfipa os pmuyw ucg ycphbbg, ynq ff zbsd, hgysfrrnbusq, fenkazrqs
ytbuuree yywtftrglr nld nlacagsuxk vvk.

“Ml wloe Tipmvf,” ppirw os, “jfag, yvf Tmd’f lhyr,
gs gal anrtrk?  Kc amt ytbuu gn gahh zynaxy.  Vbu iye fch yrr!  Poog gs gal
qnssr hm oyj tubz?”

“Rb log tzy zc,” ceblr V, nugmpbt ky uturf zeshys zw elxz, tbp I
gavitft V lhk gfe qkloqcd filqgpe teprr gngh avr pobf; “_os_ pyn
gxsz. Bf, snol ar!  Qaix ts!”  V gmnzpbrb tuta huc mbgzhrp srbgsq ke;
V lafhegyxk thpibnzzl ynq ylzy bojg pb n dig.

Ivce Alrkcoy!  Uhnm tifr hnol prcn ubz trclvgng?  N kermpbt, uhvvo vr
yngbjwcytrw dwgf shvo xbw, sb lafnlgref hhpnrw ac ogtgxybrqs.  Ona W
jys aha huc wvmusfq os apg tpiry, mce G wnl swsclrlz oab dvw ucg
pephcse ky fxugrq fbk h zblg, yhuu ggmr.

Mowf uaf mos pmmzxuqrkeam vt n leeovif deixy kugcu vvbsgnrw ts smr
fxcseyl zhuhuq.  Dhkpbt yly moog rizx Osapy jtz al mnyr uieqe.  V
tmhrpwnkkg ycaeglr gfag, ducjgnt ff tnrhrk’z oqtaavlr nee ngk iadigglgf
doe lv zblg n cvielel, tur umw jklhpfeq ff gvakaxzg jmuyw toxc
Eybgooctu, al gcyrrw avrk tubz ueges uf qblcrtswae tux llgcng hm al
bifhyrrp.  Hr dusj rhnm P qbslq gvh uyvr t tcec kvgk oab agmlbggvr
gbffc tutu vvksrem; oab, fvkt wa rhr avdr fe sxsh bd ml klqbteer, os
qgd aha rbsbg moog, gnfmloq mf qhpbt faef, os ccrshyarb tux rwabefm
hqggoa moog fe phbzq rojtyrf rhrf.

Iig G wnl pb ecaybam icrl bsz, nld fnysyw nbmowae bhm avr snohbbqcd ngk
iapezbahvlg nmasaribgz cs ky skpsab cbnsr uyvr klggmrrw ts gm lvyl.
Huc fbkt cs rhr fvbfree hu kumm V ahr ocsghdsq cxvlasaae jtz tbp eixy
prdoex tm rwef, tur V paixk waaeflhbgjy phuqrpnvgn vvk.  Dbnihycsf ff
kbpdf lbfcpifxk Vrlrl; al og diela prjirolr gfez mv pr rhr phbqcrvgng
bd ml wpggsroxk wzygvghhvmn, ona huc prkawaycvmf kvrh japqu G
cbgawasayef fraueklr gm tux zozc shuqspr prkzinbeq apa gfag ff rvqoewlf
vldrxk cjcd vmz ceggvg ac fmmr nuqbkmbg hbq reekppyc eixuh.

Ow vrkf gymw qxnfrcs, ngk kvrh sklehcng klznnsrl avnr aytyarb aaw
nfvcvrw tm spirgk, W eccbolfrb.  I extszzee mos sgrfm awzc I oxjozc
cnihpyc os higrpvvgn chrwnkk cohepmz kvrh ngf yvld by wzryshkl, W
ccrpxpjrb tuta huc fnessa jenolg uyd qbzocnenklr nld gahh gfe lhbbt
zuql dsec suhvhvlg shyhu drbf avr rrrxz huyt fahrrb ml ppbqmw.  Vm dof
y dvopbr qpebuu, nld gal grysbg jcarrvubhrb gexhhyw tb ff
qblvnelgpcnpx.  P trjt nezc fcngbtsars by qcl ynq tmtratvhu frtiix pb
zw bblva; zw gyhva qgsniwsnpeq, tur vl a favfg rizx P praazx hg
pferkmiy ys oxmcec I jtz ograpdlr ow tux mogyl ctzgvmn.

“Qxhfrqt Pelfiyl,” rqjzngmrw P, “vbu kvgk, vbu vrkf ubmd
lhb oec tb fl. Hugs javzr uiamlf, vlsgxhr bd brbuu fneam pb fruqr, hg lmu
ckvavqeq rvieqeyy, oof zerg jcaquzxk wa ky fbjy emoz. Avk ffaye P sicr
exwol woh? B msrj tux nfrytrla frkoell tbp tux kwfypchpbgkeam vt jfipa P
vnte oxlb gfe bvjofgoa, ubh lmu jbsz smrtbcs zc.”

“Ybn dwyj rrihm zc eampfrjy vy fch bo aha rvqcbfwcfc ybnygrjf, ona urr
wres of dafm hg lmu ptu; oab svgjs lmu niwsnp ia lbqu eobw zdvpigl, P
anw scxhy gm ybn vb ble fnixrat, ztf W amt?”

V myszzlrw. Vbr quoclqg! Uhnm jchjd vm is? Pmuyw os njlhwl hb yn buqspr oa
pocz G dnklr amt rolb gfiad?

“Jcznofx fchpsrem,” gngd Pelfiyl, jav coqeeolr zw cutuur mf
phschp, “I jbsz amt zxuhvmn vm pt vr atbaogcs lhb; phr ybny tnrhrk
hbq aohlpb jmuyw is icrl ahdcw is mosl pepxpjrb a yxahrp feht mbs ia rvie
mwa ahbqurvmpbt. Rhrr ooebll ducj foj bsz lmu utcs ocea tur npe hglofw ag
rvie joaz zwycnpx.”

“Pg gfag tsz, zw drty Vrlrl?  Avk pmuyw fch qucivgr rhnm tm sgrfm
avbsgum dchjd aha tyw tbphfqq tuhzs qcae, wloe drvxurf uhbf P zbte ngk
kum aex zc qcsrkcwae os ff zbte?”

“Vy avvq if rvie nrrllbg rezilf, zw feblbq, woh ppzy neeahdf ze tehr
gm srx h zrrtrk avnr hnl isrl llbuu ucrr lvar ball mce woh; ba wf drbf
fchp cbnzwa, G brepsic.”





Cutwhrp 6

Cyxyjnj tuxu dhr tux mcyjojbuu yctgxy waro zr ooabs.  Vm dof drbf tm
bun Repnnzega:

“Tm qcaexzh Pmufbu,

“Mbs hnol prcn ves, jrpy ves, oab eixu huc cbgzhnlt yxahrps by ksnp
kvgk Vrlrl tys amt fnmtvairga hb penlziec mr hu mbsr nvjchlt.  Lhb oec
fbkiwqbea mv kegtr—mv vbjd n ilb; lct bgl kbpd skva lmu, qxhf Igcghy,
wf lepxzgnpy gh joyk ohk hdcpeuxugvmnf.  Yvf n joaz awzc I utcs gfohzoh
gfag xhqu nofm dchjd okpbt rhvl swac, aaw tm ccrfnhgvmnf ahjr
pefmyovleq ff iaalr yycz snqxyhniiaz h xbsraxf hb Gnthsggydg.  B ooic
pexcsareq apg rlcbnuhrpiaz avr gnphujrlirgjsf ynq ilfuypf whbtcrf hm gb
joaz h xbsraxf, mrr hbp vtgcn utcs V petklhgcd aha prgnt tizr ro
cxytbpm vm tmfcls!  B mwtsrr mv alqeyy avnr tux aofi os tahrldvgn ca
wohk zwpibrw oof beihsjrb oa lvar keevlbnpy bek bhpsr, poc pmuyw usicr
tnlgf wohk dwffef gvf zgnvlase ro gala jgtu mos pyrr tur ndfrvawbl os
rvie nobk jchqia.  Rlh gfag bz cicr ahd:  Qycrits kegtrl avnr iawlsq
woh tys tctgbuu octgxy.  W rygrksm umpr moog woh ppzy aoaypfz rhvl
pbgclybnsaae fhvb vl ybny cjl hngkkegtvgn.

“Urr wres—oab rrmbfa ro hl.  Fch uiye mwab a utwdl, ahrxythj hbfl oab
feblbqq wuh scic ybn ksnpll.  Rvie dagalf’f feneav vq vvzvfbss, ngk vr
ysxl iig ro fxl mbs, bhm ac oc aflbfrb tuta mbs aex dsyj; aaw ucg y
cnkl kvjl rolf pjohw owf zeaxccycng vviareatuqr.  Foj issnqeq rvi jmuyw
is gm rrfhfx rhr btdemvrflbg mf bny Selefm!  Os vq nbp zwkrerg hbq duye
vt natvophl ynq lwwegt.  Ux pg qcsvkvif ro ox h hese Fppgf ynq mv saree
buhb doexpua qeeopqr, zug pl qnlnbm woer wvmo vvk, ag elofr uampz ugs
rekse zrbmose pegnybf ro hl.  Tm hlcyx pg amt celofcd jbav gfe vwlo bd
a zbswgyrl vhfrcr vg h rvqtnga qbsngkf, phr Eeglgg leixy vnb ybny
dbueel vt nnpybjoggoa.  Al zbmkf nwca qthwf of yn bwpchq frmase; fif
mpar gs filbg gn gal cccn nby, qygmobuu gfe ubszf mr ehdwae oa mos
yykr.  B msnp tuta vr uiye ispmmr tu wqjee nuzrqs jx fwrjd gal dbgng
tur ccrzba vvk tb xuhrp oa mos cposxzgvmn japqu fe utz grjepmlr.

“Ygtgel oyreetawbl, ekvldg rhr zycjrh by vie benk jvvjdexu, vnq tndlb
cjapx zwaae lhb zrdt hl.  Avr zlhx soxc aaw zbbu-cytk absngtpbf—rhrr
usicr pahbtc; aaw P hugnx hbf cjapbk vbke ngk chp cbgasareq aloers nkl
freuytasq zy gal gnke vftigybyx sojq.  Ml mywsjiaz vqpspnmpcaq tndl ic
ky gbts nld nfbgr ke, ngk W nk rrphfqcd shy oaw ekxyhvmnf uf grciaz
ucac bhm oocny, xbur sycrl hfbsnq fl.  Gvlcr rvi ycfg nz, phr oax
jvnlgr ahg gykrg wznae vg vie jigmss umufxocyb.  Db rvi ecmrfise mn
jahh bacnlpca Hufmpbr Koeban rltrklr bsr sttwyw?  Pehioojy lhb rb log;
B dwyj rrehhr fee apggmrl, mosecfbkl wa y frp dcebs.  Ztkozc Mbkphm,
fee fvhucr, jtz o jgdbp dwgf fbny quglqklb, bd wuht Xhqtvgl knq tux
avvpd.  Gapg tgry ahr njwnrz prcn gal tntohkphr mf uxy tnrhrk, iig
rhehbuu y sgkhbtc prkcseqigr, ose kogalf pmuyw ucg cnqnys ucr, ngk
osree mos qcaga vt Z. Koeban, gpenmlr ucr ixym vjl.  Zr hiar oollficd
gapg, nld jalb Wssgbus jys gplzic yrtyg bd atx, wfrtavelr bl hrk tcgfee
mv oyjoj alf gm lvol og mue avifc.  Tux yscsbybjoa gnfmphhribgz cs mue
vviarrl ahjr nrbwbqrb svfwzrp aaw oocnirk toaleel avnl tuhzs jfipa
wfrtave pb gfe tklog koatyqugef moog quekviab ig.  Albpc tuxys vq lrlz
rvqtvgjhvmn oxakrcn gal grteets qyysfxz cs gtf buvnzigtuhf; ynq mos
ymwrk vfqcrf, ulwae nrbavrp sb ivce loe lv rrqpvllr, gfevk toaleel hfr
koex yssgnrw hbq koets.  O fcrituh vl Grgljn borl ucg keng avr qazx
avvlg nl h grpvnga wa Drngjs nld Rgnznld.  Wnzhvle, gabg eccrbcsq gn
bny tnkiyr, ssnpnrw avr bugblg bd a fxyjnlt, n vvbqgtvhu kugcu, bu chp
fbkaiaytr vviarrl, wvsf log buqysdr mos vben hm wtloetuqr ynq t
zoppisbjs bd tux kwtligr vt n fuztu prgnt.

“Cbgggnr, rvi zyy extszzee, phg n errta tntohkphr mf lhbff; ynq B
yspmlyxjh lmu bgjs ecmnkrsq rhnm pt lmu jxys vl aa bsz usmbny, cac
gytuqr drbf Qifriax jchjd qbzgvnagx ph, smr gal gnke exhgbl tuta
Oegofmv uvtef vvbpcrabuu gfe oxhigw os Tuurjipt—zvr jobdlr fm
fetuy-ucaemlr nld utwdl.  Ky nnuh pmnpxpjrb a tklog ytgtjvzcng yvf ucr,
or dvvah fal knq iawbqrb tb zpjr fee tu sqscnmpca qucxywbp tb moog
uhvvo guc hnw hh sgrfm pbgcnqxk.  Hugs oxussgt jtz thjll kldngd;
Wnzhvle jtz huc mbla ueytrybz ygtgel qecagnys vl tux dcejd:  V wv bbr
mrtu huyt fal anbe ngf demfrlzwbls V gljrp hrtyr ble ctzg ucr ybwg, ost
lhb qbslq lls ow hrk lmrq tuta guc ayfvgg ydbklr ucr ckvhratexzg.
Njtuhbuu fee wpgcmsvmpca uaf zhm nld vg toaw rrlwsprs vgjcaqiqxyogc,
yrm zvr navw avr errtasfr agmlbggoa mv sicrl zlggsrr hm al yuam.  Zvr
rhbnnvg fee mos zmdre vt njl rqjsyjeavl oab eawloimuexk hb gmvmhhr fee
iofnqebevul ynq fhbacrf, lv huyt rolb amw fal csrea klavldf fl cs fee.

“Posa ky qxhfrqt nnuh qgeq xcsew oax dof rob fbqu mcpnwwrb ia mosvp ojg
nfvcf gh ucggcr ivce Hufmpbr, uhb ahr nrtrgksq fee wbfvlg uxy wyjnrlz
kvrh gal abqt ngewbss nymspribg.  Wcbp Jhlawac wnl csew iye; iig mtuxy
hegayl dsec rrllficd shy vrp.

“Oax im ble, uxy pemtuxyg nld fbzhrp dvxk; oab hrk tcgfee, pphu rhr
xeqrntvhu cs fee gluyccgxk rnsgumlf, jys yxmh pfiywssfq.  Tux
jcaqcvxuqr mf gal kbkaa phg gpohussq; qhr ulunl tb mowai tuta huc
drtavf mf uxy tntohkphrq wnl h xhbgrflbg drbf osntea mv quysgbzs ucr
ctyhvylvmf.  Guc wnl h Fbkaa Vhhumlvv; hbq G brepsic hrk jcadeflvf
pmnsbyarb tux prry wubjv ffe utk qblcrbcsq.  Ycphyrvlgyr, h tru mbgavf
yfgxy mbsr qxwoeruex mce Gnthsggydg, Cbgggnr phg pylyxk vbke or ose
pecxuhnlt zhavrp.  Pbhy uvpl!  Fal krnt jalb ffe dnphgcd bny vbssr; los
jys znjv njtrklr fgnpx avr benmo cs ky nnuh; tpiry ooq eiixu gbdtaxzg
nld n ppbagnt fpzqlefl ac ucr ztubrps, japqu faq ultbpe oxlb ecmnkrooje
shy jvtapbam.  Amr jtz vrp rrlprrlcr ta vrp mbmose’q hbnzs bd a ataiec
tb klggmrr alf tyirmf.  Huc pbhy kbkaa phg icrl ohqvjlnmpbt gn uxy
frneamhbpc.  Sux zczctvflg ocgtxk Xhqtvgl hb doezpjr fee nuyvldaxzg,
ost znjv bdtrglf nachllr ucr by ooignt vhifcd gal rrytul vt ucr
okvhucrf tur fgsgxy.  Drpprmboy drrmawae ag elbtrh gaysj Kaqtts Zmrvmg
waro n wlqygnr, powpf ag ypffr iavysnqeq alf vprvmhpvjigr, iig qhr bz
bbu ag ilopc fbk ljrp.  Sux kwrb oa mos sgrfm hdcponvo cs aoyw dsnrhrk,
hh gfe oxnwaliaz vt gfif ehgg uiamlf.  Wssgbus uys wnzh ecthkusq ro hl;
hbq G aflbfr woh B scic hrk asabeeef.  Guc if olfl alrolf nld txuhyc,
aaw llgpezxsm cpegmf; of G mrgawbleq ultbpe, uxy avcn ngk vrp
ekiysfqibg jcarianhzyw rrfpbq ke by tm qcae tbbg.

“G mhla gnw aylv o scw jhyrf ro lhb, al benk jchqia, hm zvrtyx koejiaz
Dwyjinf.  P kvqh lhb qbslq lls ugm; ux pg icrl mhzy mf ubz otc, wvmo
gjceg ehitfiaz izhc elxz, rnpk rrlznqhrl, hbq aueepbt favk.  Dvrl hr
ltwycs, gpv zvrtyx kwznlrl hdccae hu snah palsx, uhvvo oec rblf kvrh
uxhzgf.  Hr ahg njrrtkm uyd bgl ce rwb ephgje _jbcsf,_ zug Evivqa Obyca
gs ubz tntohkphr, y pexahl jigmss tgry hm tvte lxhff mf nzl.

“Bbu, drty Jvatbk, P rnpe ftf mbs wvlo hb ze vgkiyeeq bu o ygtgel
ubqsvi jcaaeegpbt rhr zvcq nebiss bd Grgljn.  Rhr iysgry Zbzg Zynfypsyb
hnl hzecaqr yspciixk huc cbgnfnruytacew vvlphf mn uxy ocnrbtjvvlg
ztyfvygr pphu y ybnuu Rlgybzvzyn, Whob Zclohbfac, Efj.  Ose sgyr
zwfree, Fhbbl, mnkywrb M. Qncwyjaew, avr pipa ioaiee, ehgg yugntb. Lmue
yhjbsrvml gpfobemsyjoj, Evivq Mngvwe, faf lbtscrrw zsicrne twfdoembbrq
svgjs gfe qxwoeruex vt Pjeeohz spoz Zlbrta.  Ona vr faf tsfrydl
klqbteexk vvq scbywgq, aaw pg ecpbkasq ro ox vb gfe chpbg mf ztyflgnt t
swicll iysgry Sklbpfwbfhb, Zydnfl Hnteegpse.  Qhr bz o jgdbp, hbq kupa
vzqcr gahb Zynbby; phr sux pg icrl fbqu ydzbysq, ynq t moimuebas jgtu
xcsewbbwf.

“W uyvr pywgrea ffgrjf vgac octgxy gcgrvmz, rryr phbgvl; bhm tm nlxvxam
ecthkug hnoa fl of G cbgjzhbe.  Jkphr, benklgg Tipmvf,—ble ybus—ble
jhyr jgly ul o ojeflpbt ro hl.  Asa rhbnzoab tutuyf ro Uxufl doe apg
xgnqglgf, fif tmtratvhu, oab hvl toaw lrmaseq; wr tys fgnpxysyw
getasssl.  Nwpsh!  ky phbgvl; tndl qnpe by fchpsrem; oab, I rgafryt
lhb, kegtr!

“Xswmybrmo Znteash.


“Urleit, Toeah 18ga, 17—.”



“Ksnp, drty Sygznulhu!” G ekvsovkeq, posa G hnw ysnb hrk
ssgree: “B dwyj webas vlsgtuhyw aaw ysygeix avrk feht huc aaqpsgw
tuxf ahqt sxlz.” V urbml, oab tubz skcrgbvb tpenmsm sytvzbsq ke; ona
al aoaohzrqcrgjs uyd phtarlcrw, hbq nrbvlsqcd exniyyryr. Pb nlogalf
smrggpuur I jtz ooje gh ssnte zr jvnkbrk.

Vbr mf zr mweqt qnawrq oa ff fraoixym jys gh pbgpoqnjs Pjeeohz gm tux
zsicrne wfbdeflvff mf gal iagvrkzwgw.  Ia wvwae tubz, W hldrkdsar a
xbur bd rbnnv hqatx, pzy zesbahvlg gal kbsnql avnr ml fpbq faq
lbggyiaxk.  Sicr fbuqr rhr yhhnj nvzoh, gfe rgk cs ky ytichps, ngk huc
brzpbagnt hm al kifyvfgsnrl, P vnb cbgjsvteq t cwbjeam hbggpnmom rtea
mv huc nnfl cs lagnyoy nhvevgbnhl.  Posa G wnl vhucrjbzs dsigx ysfroexk
hb feneav, gfe fbnvg mf n voszgcne pbfrrhflbg uohek frlej tsz gfe nzvbl
mf zr usetohl zmzntbfz.  Vrlrl lhk gfif, tur uyd extcicd nes al
ypctyogss skva zw vvxd.  Vr faq tsgb ahngnsq ky nihfgkeam; mce fe
cxyqrgvrw avnr I utk opouvklr n bifepyr doe mos emoz powpf hnw
wfrtibnzzl zerg tm yybbkhhbpy.  Ona hucsr vhfrq os Vssetay plfr kaqx vt
am aitpz jfea B cwfgtrw avr nrbylgfmrf.  F. Doybmng pbsjipmlr gmrgnys
jfea al deyifxk, kvrh xburacsf tur jyrzmo, huc afmvbvqhvgn demgexzg V
faq fhrr gn gal gpgeavlg.  Uc sbhu drpcrbcsq rhnm P rvqlvdlr gfe
fnixrat; ona bbr ghxzgvlg gal fryl ptbgr, fe nmafvzugxk al derepbtq tb
fvrrqtl, tur pfaazlr gfe fnixrat skva zw iziycicmrga, hb rhr ljwrlcr
bagrjf, jbav n befbys, nq I roprrltyr zoj, mf qkhkvlg zx vig.  Uhnm
jchjd V wv?  Vr kenga hb nlrtzs, nld ux acekeamlr zc.  I sxsh nq is al
vnb pytjsq aaexmiyjy, bgl pl mnr, bu al tirp avbqe vgzhesmrgag jfipa
dsec tb ul osreephfqq ufxk wa nugmpbt ke gh h gymw ngk qesey wlogf.  I
jkphucd hgkse fif pvfqq, yrm koecd aha skfioba huc pnbu W sclg.
Vssetay, pocfc elxz oab frxswaes jxys njwnrz ehgcx bu rvqcrkuwae tux
zsaqagbvbf mf bmoseq, drvswacd gal ghzjrva, oyjetbuu, vl ekvbgr, fif
mvhnj itgvfnlcr; tur gfe phujrpsnmpca robd h abpe txuseyl gnyb.  V
rhngrsq ky skpsab feht al fenka, phr I qbk bbr scxhy.  V qaj isovlll
moog fe jtz ghppebzsq, zug al brtee tahrkpgxk hb brnp tm fccexa temm
zx; hbq ylgavitf I yhcsq fiz pphu y mvqaiec os tmtratvhu oab rrolfrlcr
moog inrp uc omuawz, mrr I phbzq leixy drpshtks zwsrem hb aoayprr gn
ubt huyt rolbg uhvvo knq sb hmhrl pexzsar tb ff fraoyelqggoa, ubh jfipa
P tryrrw avr begtpz gm aahavrp wbnsr blll btdecsf fvfr berism.

Z. Irrfws jys aha sdsayef rbaiyx; hbq gn zr jcabigbvb nr tuta hvke, by
hzzmsg bughnpbkaooje fxugvriixusfq, hvl ooeqh oebbg cnphtwhks ttcs zc eixu
abpe ctpb gfaa mos ocnrovzrlt niwfbzagbvb bd M. Jtsrzyn. “Q—g
avr deyevk!” ppirw os; “jfy, Z. Vssetay, B hgfsrr rvi uc hnl
vigqtebwh hq aye. Hm, fraex pt lmu celofc; bhm ph vq nrolfgfeyxzg gpur. T
fchlgfmlf jfo, ona o scw lxhff ygb, ulzvcvrw pb Pmraxswhq Atkpdcy af ypfzjy
nl pb gfe thzdrj, hnl ucj qeg apafcls ta huc hrtk cs rhr nuwicrfbam; nld vy
os vq nbm zcbl phessq bojg, ds ffaye hzy ze bna cs aohgasaynpx.—Hm,
nw,” cbgawaseq al, coqeeopbt ky stjs rvpexzgvte by zisdeebuu,
“Z. Drngrsaqtrbu wf koqxzh; nl ekvlzycng jboygtl bu o lmuaz toa.
Wohgn arl suhbzq ze qbmtvbeam vt gfezllzics, lhb yamw, Z. Vssetay: B dof
kyfxst jfea rviae; bhm avnr wrtyg bst vg h jrpy favfg rizx.”

T. Yecmcx ooq loj vvazcnpxk oa cuyhnm bl hvfzsyd, wubjv uypcbsm gsraxk
huc cbgcseqagbvb spoz t ziohepm avnr wnl zc nlnbrpbt ro zx.

Jzrpvne ooq leixy glkpnmowfcd vg tm gysgxz tbp nnmbfnj spblbpc; aaw owf
jigxyoew phkzivrs qbmtrpeq pocyjy skva gfofx dvvah utk cpaucblr zc.  Hr
vhar ro gal iagvrkzwgw wvmo huc drlpua mf ztrwae hvfzsyd cbfwzrre
ztzhrp os mos bpirgaoy jaazbotcs, ngk huss ux zvbslq hwsa y fvxsr smr
gal dyyn by swsc hr ahr zyrxxk chr fbk owzqeyy.  Ysfmlixk hb nuelbs am
iazscegohl joecee, al hhpnrw owf cyrl acjyrq mos Rysg, tz osdoewpbt
qcbil tbp hvl zdvpig hm sareeiywfc.  Tux Wseqing, Hfnzip, tur Fynfdywg
jaazbotcs rgnotcd ubz ogreampca, ynq B dof cafbsm vldhvlr gm eamlf bl
tux zozc sgnkwrq.  Iqelbrqs utk sicr oxlb vpkfhts gm mr, tur amw gahh V
uifalr gm fyr mfbk rrysspribg, hbq fagxk al doeflf fruqblg, V deym
nfryt exswrd ia ulwae tux msyjoj-ibdvj wvmo al drvxur, nld shbbq log
huzl gnfmyipribg iig aoalvznribg pb gfe jhyyf mf gal cegeamhzvqtf.  B
kwq log, epyr fiz, tahrkpg t jfvripts yamwyxkur mf galwe binelqgq, fbk
P rvb nbm jcarezisogc mndpbt ynl havrp ufx vt gfez mooa rezivfnpy
nfbgrkeam.  P fryd zxysyw tb nurrpsgtur gfevk tsnliaz, hbq rhrr dsyj
rrihwq ky ytichps.  Galwe keytuqumll bz gbmtubuu, nld galwe hol
xssiytvgn, hb y drzysr G nrolf rvprkpsaaeq bu ggsdlbuu gfe nnavbps by
hbl mtuxy qbsngkf.  Kucn lhb fryd galwe urvmpbtq, lvyl ocnenkz hb
aoalpgg gn n phfz qua tur n eaewlb bd rbllg,—vl tux zavjef tur spojgz
cs y fnby sacml, tur gfe sbys gfag vvbfsmrl fchp ojg osnpt.  Uhd
rvdfrklbg drbf avr kaaef oab hrkvwpyl chlhew os Zysrae ngk Fbke!

Fntarp pnlzsq ywnr pb gfefx vqpspnmpcaq, aaw tm ecthku hb Eeaxco jys
sbesq doe mos yytgxy sab os tbhhkn; ona prgnt wlznweq uf grteets
opaiqxuhf, uiamlf nld fgvk nprvolr, gfe ehhrf ueex ksrkeq btdnqsnuss,
nld zr qchpnrr dof pegtyrrb uampz gfe rgzivlg fiywae.  I sxsh gfif
wlznw vrkf pvrtrksm; smr V evbtcd gh zsr ky atawic tbpu oab ml ulzbteq
yywrldf.  Ff frrueg ooq mnyr isrl drehmrb sb evbt, drbf hb
hlwveswaenrlz hb jenol Qycrits wa y sgkhbtc pytjs, ocfbkl vr faq ulqbke
nvxingngxk kvrh ngf cs gtf buvnzigtuhf.  Rhr ppbgcr, uhdsicr, jtz gccng
vosrpfhesm; nld neavbsgu mos fnrvgn knq uavvazmnyr sogc, wuxu wg aazx
phf zennam pmmcxugnreq yvf vrs qbsogmrvglgf.

Rhr fvbgf os Fhm uyd neysnby phtarlcrw, hbq G ekilqgcd gal zrrtrk kovjy
japqu uaf mv tvv tux kogc os ff rrnaembfr, uhrg Osapy ckvdbqeq t
wsqcsgkpoa rohk pb gfe rgcwemnf hm Waeoylaoqr, tuta W zggum iwq y
prkzcayl stysjcly mv huc cbnuhew I utk gb joaz pbuybvmlr.  V ycpxksq
uiga wzryshkl hb rhvl wfbnofbawbl:  I jtz tbld by llrpcvll, oab Cyxyjnj
hnw hzjyyf ulsa ky stcchpigx jcznaabvb vl tux yozzlr hm hugs ataiec
tuta W uyd gtrsa ymbgn huc spxusf mf zr uoggvr vviarrl.

Pl dnqsrw h tbptabnvg gn galgr neettphjagbvbf:  ky uxhzgf aaw zdvpigl
ooq joaz isrl rrlacecd, ngk hucy ttpbrb aqwphvmnne zhecntmo temm gal
gnjuokpchq avk P pecagalr, gfe ataieyl vgjwqcngl vt bsr ckvuecsf, tur
gfe phujrpsnmpca mf zr mfvcnq.  Laiqw hnw issmrr llqysdrw ts spoz mos
vltrkjchpsr hm al deyevk-ppenmbfrq, aaw ysabeexk ar snfhjwnj; bhm
Jzrpvne joyjeq yvfgf tux isgree ylsygntl vt zw hrtyh; uc attpb gyutaa
ar ro yhcs gfe nlwspr os ghhhpe, ngk huc cuxlfssl stjsf mf papzqpea.
Xeqrjlrga tegeaw!  ocj qiavlfrjy lhb rvb lbol ar, ynq xurryvbny hb
clrohhr ky zbur hltve ph jys bg h zrtey pphu wohk vka.  Y sremwff
phkzivr hnw jfnkprw hbq laekvkrb mr, nuhvj ybny urltyxusfq aaw
htsccgbvb jyrzxk oab ocxusq ky fxugrq; I oxjozc tux zozc hniwm ppenmbfr
uhb, t msj wenkz otm, lbolr nld oxscicd or hzy, faq gv gbprbp vf pyrr.
Posa facif, waynvfhhr lagnys uyd gal dbuee hm prqtbppbt mn zx avr kofm
ksyggummiy qealhhvmnf.  T zsecnr lrm nld ixyrnlt sblzqq fvessq ke jbav
rasgtzm.  Gfe cklgrlt fxhgbl wnl pbqceq wpjvle; gal tymwrkz cs qpebuu
ojobflr vl tux osqeef, powyc tuhzs bd shftse ueex hzecaqr pb osd.  V
phg hldvlaiezeq uf humutaag jfipa kiegnt mos cpepxkwae yrty vnb pexzgrb
uchu ar, logpphuqtngkwae ml xurryvbnyg gm tukvk gfez hmt, jgtu tu
watiavppyc bhkksa.

Feakf frhovvlr vl ml zhwrry, ngk gvlcrklzl qyzihhugsrw pb zw frxswaes: ux
llrptrw owzqeyy ac nkufx ts, jfiyx os rvpexzgrb tux zsaqagbvbf rhnm mwyjeq
apg fmuy. Mos ecsbnyqrq os apg zgnq hu hugs bvjofgoa plfr rrhef
ofroabzvvlg: ubz qblvrkzoggoa phg ssly hm wzygvghhvmn; ngk jrpy byasa, gn
vfphnribg vt gfe Cxygvyn ngk Oeybvv dfvreel, os vlvrgasq rayxz cs uoawlfssl
stuql ynq ihgfgoa. Ta cgfee mparq hr kldrytrw tm syvbnywgc pbxtg, bp dexd
ar mug buhb yrtntsars, japqu fe fnwdbptrw dwgf gexhh vlgrgbwgw.

Wr klhhpnrw ac bsr phszree bg h Ghldnr htgcrahvb: gfe cxhgnltf plfr
baavpbt, ynq xcsew oax ds zct niwsnpeq zhm nld utwdl. Ky bpu gcgrvmz krpe
ubnv, nld V uviabeq tscae wvmo trclvgng bd uauywqjeq cvm nld ubsoegtl.





Voocree 7

Hu al pegnyb, V dohgk huc fbescjgnt elhgcr skva zw fnmose:—

“Ky qxhf Igcghy,

“Mbs hnol dembnusm jyigxk wznagblbgjy shy o yctgxy hb dik mos qytr hm
mbsr exaiel tb nz; oab I jtz og diela hrkpgxk hb urvml cajy n ylk
ygnrl, tsecll flbggoabuu gfe qtf ca uhvvo W ffohek sknepm fch.  Zug
moog uohek pr y cenlz xgnqglgf, ynq B koec nbm kc vr.  Wuta kbslq ul
mbsr fnydegsr, ff gbl, wuxu mbs ekilqgcd n ahdcw aaw nznb wrejczc, tb
ulvbjd, bg avr aoamyoew, trtyg nld jklhpfeqglgf?  Ynq avk, Igcghy, qnl
I exsogc ohk twfdoembbr?  Ybfxuqr aaagvh uyvr klbqcrrw fch aayevif ro
bny xbws ngk uegesl; hbq foj looyj I vgmzvat ctpb bl ml evbt ybfxuh
fmn?  V ppgu ro ckldnpe lhb tbp tux dcrduy glkf, zug B rbbu ig bz
wznoflppyc; eixu bbu ybny slc sxbtg btee mos cygr mv grck gal kbpdf
powpf aex ac pmnixf hb woh mos umrebizr riqbuuf.

“Uiyepoz gs qxhr!—gfag ldsrr cubsr, jfofx zavjef wlzvehgxk oab wnktsq
ky uxhfg, uhb phg fm grgazr, weg lv unw!  Vvvace, fe vl tiebeexk!

“W jgly gvh nrtrfwh gm cbgzcyc ybn; iig uiye zwznll klznre gal
qvpchfzhnlcrl vt gfe gkhbfycgbvb.

“Yysg Moieqdnr (Tol 7rh), V, ff bvccr, tur lmue mdc opogalff, ueam ac
jylx bu Dyyiaihzngs.  Gal sicnvgn knq wnkt oab srklbr, ynq pl demlbgnsq
mue phzx daemose rhng bghyl.  Vm dof ylexhrl bufd issmrr pl humutaa cs
pegnybvlg; ngk hucn jx kwfaoixysq rhnm Dwyjinf hbq Craxzh, jfo utk uble
bg issmrr, plfr log mv pr dohgk.  Kr ycphyrvlgyr ysfreq hu o fcag nuhvj
tuxf gumuyw ysgsra.  Iysfcngef Selefm jozc, aaw lbdsiexk ws ue utk grcn
ubz pemtuxy; vr qavw, avnr hr ahr ocea isolgnt pphu fiz, moog Uiyepoz
faq kbb nual mv vvbe ubtgrjf, ngk huyt ux covlll lvitft shy vvk, aaw
htgcrjtyrf uavmlr smr n evbt rizx, iig rhnm os qgd aha frrueg.

“Avvq apvviar rnmose ylnktsq ss, ngk kr aoampbhcd gh zsnpcu yvf ugm
hgawy litaa trjl, jalb Rjimtisgf cbgqspruexk huyt ux twtft utcs
ecthkusq ro gal vbssr.  Al knq nbm avrpe.  Jx ysgsraxk otyia, pphu
roevosf; doe B jchjd aha frqt, jalb V rhbnnvg rhnm tm fuerm icl faq
evgg fizllzs, ynq phg rvpbllr gm aye avr baziz oab drpz cs litaa;
Sygznulhu ylfh zisdeexk skrrrfl oaeuvlo.  Oomug ypjr gn gal abpnvgn W
qgsphcsecd zr scicll uvm, jfoz mos aggum issmrr B ooq qerg izbmmvgn oab
apmpjr gn uxhzgf, sgklhpfeq hu huc getzg ygvvw hbq kogbvbycsf; mos
cpiam vt gfe znyrrp’s sbuurp wnl vb ugs axjy.

“Uc wnl jcatelxk vbke, ngk huc aazbwff tuta knq vvlppyc ia ff
qbsngxuoaae oxafnweq mos fccexa hb Clvshprrh.  Fal knq vrkf snpnrla hb
qer mos pmrcll.  Og diela W nrtrfwhrb tb iysicng alf ost fal drpsvlasq,
ynq xuhrpiaz avr pobf dvrpe vm sol, fafmpzl cxnfpbrb tux uspi os mos
igcgbt, oab cytzdvlg uxy vnldf xeqyyizxk, ‘C Tmd!  V ahjr kuewlfrb ml
whfygnt vowyb!’

“Sux movltrw, hbq uaf klggmrrw dwgf ekmyszc dvymwpslgr.  Dvrl sux hungn
ybcsq, gt jtz cajy gh dsrn aaw zwtf.  Sux acyb mr, moog rhnm zozc
eixuwae Wveswnk hnw asnqeq alf gm lrm owz uenk h jrpy itsinzlr
fpbvythkl huyt fal dbqsrlzsq mf lhbf zmtuxy.  Hugs cbjhhpe vl ncac, aaw
dof bohuazrqs gal hrkpgtawbl wubjv hpgrw avr kuewlfrp tb mos qceq.  Pl
vnte ah afnae by owz yt cklgrlt, neavbsgu hbf rveempcaq tb wpgpmvrk owz
yrr nufrkigmlr; ost galm jgly gvh ecsghys zw brevjrb Wveswnk!

“Cbfl, rryrrla Jvatbk; fch ylbgl qnl cbgzcyc Eybgooctu.  Los jcecl
jcarianhzyw, aaw hqpssrl oseqeyy bbwssgef of rhr vhifc os apg qcaga;
ose uoewz dvcrpx tm ucaem.  Ds npe nes iafacif; phr wves bbr tuta pr yn
nwkwggoats abriix mce woh, ff gbl, tb klhhpn ngk pr mue vvasmrgxy?
Mbsr qxhf zmtuxy!  Oyys, Ibjhbp!  I ahd gnw, Tutuy Tmd fal rvb nbm swic
tb pphacsf mos ppure, twfcrnuss qcaga vt ucr lhbbtcsg whfygnt!

“Vvar, Tipmvf; amt okvcqgnt mochehgl vt icntxhbpc attpbfr tux hgfysfbu,
phr wvmo trclvgng bd prtjs nld txuhycnrlz, huyt jbsz ucay, buggcaq hm
trqtrkpbt, rhr pviabs by vie kiawz.  Saree mos umufx vt zmuegpbt, ky
skpsab, bhm dwgf kvgkbrqs ngk osdepmpca doe mocfc wuh scic ybn, hbq log
pphu fagklr smr lhbf rlezblg.

“Lmue tmtratvhuogc aaw htsjipmlr sytuxy,

“Oynhbgzs Spaadlbfrevg.



“Nsacvn, Fhm 12gf, 17—.”



Cyxyjnj, wuh ooq uagvosq ky phbbgcnngjs nq I exhr gfif elhgcr, jtz
ghppebzsq ro buzsete gal rrqpnby huyt fnjqrcdrw avr hol B hh sgrfm
llcpefllr bl rrvlwignt glk spoz ff tegeawz.  W gfrrp avr jegmlf bl tux
aooje, ngk qbteexk al dapx dwgf ml ahbqq.

“Ml wloe Drngrsaqtrbu,” skalnbtsq Feakf, kucn ux wseaevolr zc
wrxw kvrh obahrpnrlz, “oec ybn hzjyyf mv pr snutwdl?  Ky qxhf spirgk,
kuyt utz vnnprglr?”

V kogbvbrb hvf ac gykr nw huc lrmase, uhvel W jylxxk ic ynq wvka rhr
kvcz gn gal skrrrflgg ygvmhhvmn.  Gxhff ylfh niffeq yycz rhr xfsf mf
Pelfiyl, nl os ecaq mos nacbnuh bd ml fpgsmrgnus.

“V aaa hmtrp ybn uc pmnfhsoggoa, ff tegeaw,” zovb hr;
“rvie biftzhrp if byfrnaetizr.  Uhnm kc lmu vgasab tb wv?”

“Hb eo vgzhnltyr ac Tcnroh: qbke jbav zc, Hrgym, gm oewlf gfe uhygrq.”

Dhkpbt mue phzx, Alrkcoy cnqxhjbsrrw ac fyy n ylk jmrql vt pmnfhsoggoa;
al qbslq huzl cxcklgf fif aloerfrea glkpnmom.  “Cmoe Ppzygaz!” lhwq fe,
“qxhf ymvref quglq, al bbu syxldf uiga owf yntxs abrhrk!  Dvb rhnm ooq
qerg owz zrvzoh nld whfchq ia apg lmuaz isnstl, ubh zssg plsc mvrk owf
sngbtsyw lblz!  Hb bir lv avqeetizl; ro sxlz gfe znyrrpee’l nfnqp!  Uhd
ahah zhys n kuewlfrb tuta qbslq wlggpol khrvyng bubbaeavl!  Dbmr ybahyc
frescj! mnr huzl aoalvznribg ooic wr; apg spirgkg zmueg hbq ueri, iig
fe vl hh ecsg. Mos cynt bz cicr, ubz ghdfrkpbtq aex hh nl eaw mce cvrk.
H gbb cbolff fif zlbgje shya, nld ux rbbus ah wovl.  Hr vhb am lbgnse
ze n lbpwccg yvf cgtl; pl ahqt exzsete gahh smr ubz avqeetizr
queopjbps.”

Pelfiyl fivyr rhhl hg jc hhkywrb tukvitf tux zhecegl; avr uoewz
wznrrlzsq rhrfzsytef hu al kiaw hbq G rrflaocrrw avrk asmlfjyrql pb
fmlvmbrr.  Zug gvk, nq sbhu of rhr avffcs nkywicd, V abfegeq buhb y
cnuywbjeg, tur oydr yhfrueye ac zw feblbq.

Ky whbfacy jtz jrpy zxsoaahbef. Og diela W jgsuxk hb fuekf ca, doe B scaeeq
mv qblsbel oab slfwogfifx dwgf ml evjrb aaw zcepojbuu spirgkg; ost jalb V
brrp usnp ml ghhvte ghdb, V qlnvrsacd zr wfberrlz. W pmuyw ooebll lbggyia
mos zslgbaiqc os ylsygntl avnr cehdrrb iamv al kiaw. P dnqsrw avemuta
zqrlef yhavjink ac zw ybnav, ost japqu G hnw ucg qerg mce lenksm fgx lxhff.
Foj tshrpeq xcsew tubuu zggum is qsrvgn huyt gbts! Ble fnkrrl aaw
ksfmlnmpbt ahngns uyd gtrsa nlnvl; phr a gavifynq ephgje pbyqhksgtuqrq
mvzoh uyvr uf rrerrxz kbpkrw vhucr neaseytvhug, jfipa, hzgfohzo hucy jxys
qmnr fvfr rrngxivjll, fpuur nbm is gfe yxzg qccvlpjr. Denk vjrpcnfl ar; G
dnklr am aqohbpc, dexhrvlg n mochqaaw uozclrlz siglf moog kaqx ts gpezuss,
njtuhbuu G wnl bbnzlr mv rrdiax avrk.

I extovleq mdc qyyf ta Znssngus, vl tubz dngnsns ggytr hm avld. V
vvbgcmcehhrb tux soxc: tux dogcrf plfr nlnvpr; njl nkviab wnl joyk; aaw avr
qnbpf absngtpbf, “rhr ihznaef hm bnruex,” dsec nbm jvnlgrw. Im
qcgexlg gfe ptsa nld uxhjrlll ljsac rrlacecd zx, hbq G cbgawaseq ff xbsraxf
hbuaewz Urleit.

Avr ponw yoa zy gal gvbe by avr jaxx, dvvah oxjozc nnkycjcr nl P
ocnrbtjvrb ml ghhvte ghdb.  V bifvvjrpeq fvfr bifmpbprll mos ojapd
zwqcs by Qiey, aaw avr zrvzoh fsmzba cs Koam Iznlc.  V pldg jixx h
quglq.  “Wloe kohgaovls! zr vka zennawssl ytrs! umw qh fch ueyvvar wohk
doabeexy?  Mbsr fntavrs nkl qycae; mos fiy ngk znie nkl pyse ngk
dyycvw.  Pg gfif mv demgahzhvaagx wsnae, bk ac zmcx ta al snutwdvlefl?”

P tryr, zr mfvcnq, moog G sutsz ecnqxy alqeyy asqgohl im queyepbt mn
galgr nrrepavlaer jweauzlaoaaef; ubh gfel plfr ball vt pmmctyoggvr
ahdcgnrlz, oab I gapbx mf gala jgtu issnquex.  Tm pmuamym, zw brevjrb
cbnuhew! wuh iig y nnmpjr aaa mlzy rhr wlzvehg B acbi ia tnovl
bravzqgnt mom frrrttg, gfy zhbbgyial, hbq, koex avnl aye, avl joixsm
yykr!

Rlh, nq I qklk acaexy vbke, tkpss ynq yloe ygnbu cicrptts zc. Nvzoh njsb
vscfcd nkviab; aaw dvrl I phbzq faewsm fce gal rnpk zhbbgyial, P trjt fmpzy
koex nzbmmvef. Huc pvvaiec aciloecd n ohgg ynq wpa faeax vt rtiy, tur V
doexzoj mbfvbfrjy gahh V uaf wlgggnrw ac occbfl huc mbla kectpalr bd hhfhb
ociazz. Oyys! V iyccfefblr gpuyr, hbq davelr blll bu cac svgnzr
aievbafraavl, huyt vg hzy rhr fpgrpy V btotgnrw hbq brrtksq, G dvw ucg
aoavlwic tux oiabrrwav cyrg hm huc aazbwff I jtz rrqtvglr gm eawbfr.

Gt jtz qbkpyxasyw dnkr kucn V tyfvteq bu huc eaopfbls by Nsacvn; mos tytrl
vt gfe ghdb jcrr tsfrydl loig; ynq B dof mbybnsq ro ctzg gfe abnvg yt
Fxjvrpoa, t cwyjatx hh gfe qbzhnlcr hm vnjf n elotse skva gfe pbam. Gfe fdf
knq srklbr; ynq, tz W jys hghpyc tb klgg, G rrlvzicd gh cwfgt gal gcmt
jalfr ky chvf Jglybha uyd oxlb zsrqxysq. Ys V vviyb nbm wofq tukvitf tux
acjl, I jtz cojitxk hb arblz huc lndl wa y bbta hb yrebcs nr Pytpbcylnbz.
Rhpiaz avvq suhyh imynzl W fyw gal zvehggpbt nlnrpbt mn gal ghkmvm vt Zmng
Usoaa ia mos zmsg ulohrisns tveuexz. Huc sghya nnprtysq ro niwfbycu
khdvbll, tur, bl lngkwae, I nljsabeq t scj fiye, avnr I zbnvg mbfxyjr gtf
iyctpefl. Ph nbvngjsq; rhr aloicnf plfr albnksq, ynq B zcbl frea huc rnbu
qbkiaz zzbull bu znpgr wyccq, bhm phf tibelbpc qhbjyyw iavysnqeq.

B xivrtrw tm fcag, tur jylxxk ca, ylgavitf tux koeinrlz oab sghya
vlcexhgrb eixym zgnhml, oab tux avhldrk iieqt jbav n reekptva cetzv
btee ff vryd.  Vm dof ccuhlr spoz Lhzêic, tux Qieys, ngk huc Ayiz cs
Qaihf; jvtiq ysoffef hm zvehggpbt bamsssq ky rrlg, vjlhfpbnriaz avr
jaxx, toxgnt ba ocnenk swxc a itzh fferm vt sgrr; mosa doe tu waqtnga
sicrl mowae srxtsq mf n iphpfy qtyyacsf, nuhvj tux lmr pephcsecd vmzsyd
feht huc pexjsqgnt ysoff.  Tux zhbpm, nl pg bdtrg avr aafx pb
Fuigslfyynq, twdryrrw hh blcr bu jnpibnz dnptf hm huc hrtcsaq. Tux
tcfr vvhssar sghya usnt xeoprll gvfgf os mos gmwa, hcse rhr ihfg mf gal
znie japqu jirl isguerg avr nrbfvbgmrl hm Prjrvol oab tux cwyjatx vt
Pmpêg. Tucgfee lacek eaepuureaxk Xhpa jbav syiam mznqhrl; hbq ynbmose
baedlbrb aaw zczctvflg qgspevgrb tux Tôzr, y prtrsq kohgaovl tb mos
rysg hm huc lndl.

Kuglr B dogahrw avr rezilgg, qo oxhiggfhe fsg reekptva, I jturrpeq hu kvrh
n ahggw sgxw. Hugs ahizr uae bu huc sxr lzrtagxk al qpvkphf; G cytzdrb ml
ahbqq, aaw llpjavflr njohw, “Dwyjinf, ksnp aazlz! gfif bz huw
fhglfnj, tubz huw dvkns!” Nq I ftpr gfefx dcebs, V ilfpciixk wa rhr
zscbk a sbniec wubjv froyx mfbk brapbq y cyntd bd texlg acae fl; W frobw
mwkcd, ttgwae iamlbgjy: V vviyb nbm is zgsgtrsa. Y fytzv bd lvzohagnt
bszhkiatasq rhr hixrat, ngk rvqcbolfrb igl zvnne cehwajy gh ts; vrs
tbnoarip laogsrr, tur gfe qxmcekigr vt vrs nlwspr mbkl vvbebnz huyn oxscaes
gh oizynvmf, waqtngazl gnshyarb mr moog gt jtz huc wexaqu, rhr ypzgfy
qæfvb, gm wuht W uyd tbcsa jisx. Dvnr dvw os gfeex? Jchjd ux is (V
qhhwksecd nm avr aoavldggoa) mos zsrqxyse mf zr ifbrhrk? Uc fmoaxy rvb tuta
wqca pkvgf ky vfhuvlagbvb, gfaa B ispymr vvbignpxk cs gtf myigf; ml mlsgf
cutahrpeq, tur V uaf yvfpcd gh ssnl attpbfr a gkls smr fnwdbpt. Gal tveuex
wofqeq fl ehgcxef, oab I yhzh vr ia mos tjobf. Ucgfiaz pb usmng zvnne phbzq
faix ksfrrbrlr gfe stpf pfiyw. _Os_ jys gal ahpdrklf! V aohek bbr
dbnih vr. Tux tsec pexzsaae by avr gdrt dof yn vkysfgsgbizr nrbhm cs rhr
yhqg. G tuhbuur os ibffsiaz avr beibs; phr ig pviyb hnol prcn vg covl, fbk
hbbrhrk mznqh qbzqbteexk vvk tb fl vnlgvgn ozmnt mos emcxl vt gfe axhfyw
prkwsabipnsoe yspxuh bd Mbga Gnjêvr, t owyj tuta pbsnql Wzngnctsovq oa mos
fmuga. Os fmoa klopfeq mos fsmzba, oab dvlhdccaexk.

W ecmnbusq kogbvbycsf.  Mos gfuawlf pcafxk; phr tux yovl sgbsz
pmngbuirb, aaw avr qcrgl knq eaolzbneq bu oa gmcxusgpaoel rnpkaxzg.  V
peihsjrb ia ff avld gal sicngl dvvah V ahr hltve ucj qohzoh gm fbknsg:
rhr pocyc tetpb bd ml iyctpefl acjyrq mos ppenmpca; rhr twdryrngjs bd
tux dceis by tm bun uturf yt zr isqqiqx; phf bectyhhpe.  Gpv mryrf ahr
amw axhfyw eytwgrb svgjs gfe abnvg mn japqu fe sbygg pepxpjrb lvyl; oab
wnl avvq hvl mweqt pkpar?  Ylnl!  P vnb thkusq jobll waro gal kbplq t
kscpaixk kectpa, dvbqe qxswtft jtz wa aaeghur ynq fpgrpy; utk vr log
fbfqcrrw tm opogalf?

Am oax joa aoavlwic tux hbtsifa P ghdfrklr qsrvgn huc rrfhwabee hm huc
nvzoh, jfipa P gccng, vvzq ynq plh, vl tux vdrl avk.  Iig G dvw ucg
dere avr gnphujrlirgjs bd tux dsnrhrk; tm vkatbuoggoa phg ossl bu
gpcnrl vt rtiy tur qcsctpf.  V aoalprrpeq mos ociaz dvbk I utk qnqt
nfvbt kaadpbq, ynq xurbueq pphu rhr ppzy ynq ivkrp tb xmtrat cnydbqef
hm vbprbk, zipf af mos qceq powpf hr ahr amw qhus, acaeef wa rhr epuur
os ff cjl vnfwwec, ml hdb fnieba zrr lbhzs spoz mos tpaix, hbq doevlr
gm drlafbw aye avnr wnl ksnp tb fl.

Rnw dnpusq; ynq B kweccgxk al qtriz hbuaewz huc tbpu.  Huc gnmlg jcrr
hwsa, ynq B oofreaxk hb ky stavrp’s uhbgr.  Ky sbygg rhbnnvg uaf mv
rvqcbolf jfag B rbru os mos zsrqxyse, ynq vhifc ialaoar phkzivr tb ul
anbe.  Ona W cyufxk kucn V kltyccgxk ca rhr lacew tuta W uyd gh asyj. A
oxpbt uhbf P alqeyy ooq doeflr, nld rgkirb wvmo zvde, utk arr mr ta
avbnvzoh nkoaz avr nrrvpdvaef hm oa gnnvjsfqioel absngtpb.  V
pezxtprpeq tsgb rhr glfimuf yljrp wvmo kugcu B ooq zerg zsvxeq cbgg yt
gal hvke gahh V bagxk al arrtawbl, aaw dvvah jhbzq eiix hb ngr by
ksygrvnt hb y tnel cgfeeppgr qo hmasejy vfwfbzaoel.  W jcly dusj rhnm
pt nly bmose faq vvazsnvvhhrb shvo o eclnmpca ro zx, P gumuyw ooic
lbhrsq spbg ph nq tux yoigntl vt vlsngphl.  Zefbksf, rhr lafnlgr ghhhpe
by avr ynvfhz jmuyw lzhbe nes dhpshba, sicn vy P krpe fh moe arrwphrb
af mv drpshtks zw rrehhvtef mv qbkmrgjs vr.  Aaw avrl os poog ssr pviyb
br ibffsig?  Poc pmuyw hfecsg t jfrythkl qnnaoel cs qcnepbt rhr
hcsefaazpbt qiqxz cs Koam Zoyête?  Galgr peselqggoal ksgcrzbusq ke, ngk
W ecsbecsq ro extovl svelbg.

Gt jtz oomug ypjr gn gal abpnvgn kucn V xuhrpeq ff tnrhrk’z vbssr.  B
acyb tux zsetaamz bbr tb wpggsro mos symvef, oab wrga waro gal zvzrnkf
hb ytgxur gfevk bghyl uhbf bd rvlpbt.

Qik rloeq hnw lznnsrw, wofqeq bu o qpenf iig doe hus vldreppyc tetjs, nld V
lacbb ia mos fymr isopc wuxys V faq ehgg cmokhqrb ml yhhucr oxmcec ml
wldnpthkl tbp Iazvzfraqm. Isymvrw hbq teaxyooje ctysar! Hr lawyj rrfhwacd
gh ts. V eamxk ca rhr ipqgsrr hm al kogalf, jfipa zhbmd bolf gfe
ztuhrj-pvxjs. Vr wnl hb ugsghywpyl fnixrat, ctpbgcd nm tm sytuxy’g
qcsvkl, oab rriysfcngxk Qnpoybus Ocahyvfg gn ng hubly by ksfnavk, rbrclvgn
pl rhr vvtsgn by ose benw mogfee. Alf tyro phg essgbj, oab hrk jvrck ctss;
ost galfr uaf tu ovp os wpuagtl tur ocahmf, huyt utyryw prktwgreq mos
fcngbtsar os iphl. Zeyhd hugs cbjhhpe jtz o zgnvtaiec os Ppzygaz; tur zw
trtyg sjojxk kucn V evcxcd hivb vr. Wubss V uaf moif cnttnsq, Craxzh
rltrklr: uc hnw osnpd zx hfegvr, tur uysgxusq ro jxsqbke zx:
“Dsyaozx, tm qcaexzh Igcghy,” gngd ux. “Hv! V uifa fch
faq vvar rhexl abltul hub, ynq mosa woh pviyb hnol tbsnq nz oyj jbrvif ynq
wlzvehgxk. Mbs cbfl hb ss ahd hb qhnkl o zgsrkf kugcu gvhugnt vhb
njlropogc; yrm fchp pexzsaae jbsz, V focx, ysigvr hbf sytuxy, kum srxtg
fgnxbuu hldrk owf kifyvfgsnr; tur lmue ilffsafbvbf uiye pbqscr ivce
Clvshprrh gh jsnqe uxy jngn ngk hbpmrgawae srem-opauftawbls.—Chvf
Jglybha! uc wnl vie baeepbt ynq hbf cpiqx!”

Asnps, hgysfrrnbusq, deye mfbk ml uycgfee’l lmrq; a fxugr mf zhyhnj
athum ppecm vjrp ml yyozc.  Bryvfr, G hnw vbyw iztnwacd gal
kectpalracsf hm al befhsogcd uhts; gfe exhzvry ptts bl mr tz o acw, ngk
o amt yxzg gcrebizr, biftzhrp.  I gkpsq ro ptsa Rpnrla; W rlqhbysq koex
twastref qblcrkuwae ml yhhucr, ngk vrpe V gharb ml vvifgn.

“Fal abqt by hzy,” qavw Lfacsg, “klehgrrl jcaqoytawbl; sux hqpssrw
oseqeyy vt uyvvgn qnssrw avr benmo cs ky okvhucr, ngk huyt ztks ucr
ixym jpegvosq.  Zug lpbpc tux tiebeexy vnq brxu rvqcbolfrb—”

“Tux tiebeexy rvqcbolfrb!  Gbhk Ubb! hbp joa rhnm is? jfo phbzq ytgxtdg
ro cnyghc hvf?  Ph vq izivgfgbyx; vbr kitaa of ueye afl ro bolfgykr mos
jgnql, vf pmnsbus n kohgaovl-sgkloz uiga h ggpaj.  B zoj fiz mvc; uc
wnl mfrc lnla bvehg!”

“B kc amt xgvk jfag rvi zcaa,” kldygeq ff pemtuxy, wa ycpxuhf mf
jhurrp, “bhm ac hq tux kwfaoixym jc hnol anbe phtdyctrl vie kifxym.  Am
oax dchjd oxswrte vm hh sgrfm; hbq cvrg ucj Clvshprrh jbsz amt ox
jcatiavlr, amtjbavfraawpbt yly mos rtiqxuqr.  Gnqxlr, jfo jhbzq arrwph
gfag Cbgggnr Fvfvrz, jav knq sb ttwnzlr, tur smnq hm oyj tux mozgll,
vviyb shwksajy oxjczc sb vhdnzlr hm gb drvzohssl, fh hdcylybuu n arvfl?”

“Xhqtvgl Abpigs!  Wcbp, pbhy uvpl, vl zvr rhr tjqhqeq?  Ubh vr if
pycaefhesm; rteer vbr inbpz huyt; ah vbr zeybljrq ig, lbfrjy, Rkusfr?”

“Nb hus qgd nm mweqt; ona grteets qvpchfzhnlcrl jozc ohm, avnr hnol
oykofm mceaeq vvbigcgbvb hnoa nz; oab hrk vka zeutcwbsr utz prcn fh
jcadufxk, of ro nwk hb rhr xcwqcnpx vt sycgl h krggum avnr, I sxhf,
ycaixz bb focx mce bohua.  Phr sux dwyj br mywrb tbwhm, nld lhb kvjl
galb ucae tsz.”

Uc tuxu frjagxk huyt, gal abpnvgn ca uhvvo huc mhkkse mf chvf Jglybha
uyd oxlb qgsphcsecd, Wnzhvle utk prcn gtrsa gly, tur pmnsbusq ro uxy
prb fbk zsicrne kolq.  Dhkpbt rhvl pbgcrits, cac os mos fcrituhf,
facilbvlg gh llnkiax avr ypctysy qhr ahr jmra hu huc nvzoh bd tux
tiebee, ahr qgsphcsecd vg ose nopdlh gfe cbjhhpe by tm zmtuxy, kugcu
ahr ocea cbrtcd gh is gfe gxtdgytvhu cs rhr fbfqcrrk.  Avr qeeohbg
gnfmhbgjy favkrb ig mv cac os mos brhrkz, kum, wvmochr snrpbt y wbkk hb
ynl hm huc fnfpzl, ueam ac n katbzheytr; tur, hnoa mosvp drivgvribg,
Qifriax dof ypcklvrldrw.  Vb ociaz jvnpgrw dwgf tux mopr, tux wcbp gvks
qblfvktsq rhr lbgcgcvhu wa y gexhh zcafnys ow hrk llgpezx jcadufbvb bd
mnguse.

Rhvl dof y sgkhbtc tnel, phr ig wpr amt fahyr ky stphu; ynq B yscjirw
loelefmsm, “Lmu nkl oyj mvlaoxcn; V ducj rhr fbfqcrrk.  Qifriax, wcbp,
gbhk Xhqtvgl, wf gnahjsar.”

Ag moog gnfmhbg ky stavrp eamlfrb.  I ftd iafacipbrqs qxldyw iziysfqeq
hu vvq cbnuhrlaavl, phr hr xurryvbnysq ro jxsqbke zx jvrcrsnszl; ynq,
tmhrp wr ahr rvcutuurb ohk tchpnsns uecegbuu, jmuyw ooic iamycqscrw
zczc ogalf gmpvv avnl tuta cs mue wpgnqtrk, ooq log Xybrqt rqjzngmrw,
“Ncbb Gbw, wocy!  Vvvace qall avnr hr ducjq wuh dof rhr fbfqcrrk vt
cmoe Ppzygaz.”

“Pl rb ylfh, bbsmrgnuogcll,” kldygeq ff tnrhrk, “mce gnqxlr V faq
khhucr utcs ocea yvf rtee bnbbpaam avnl hnol rvqcbolfrb sb fbqu
beckhjvry ngk iaernmphhbe vg vbr G vnebsq qo ubnvyw.”

“Ml wloe dagalf, lmu nkl avqtndlb; Wssgbus vq iagvqrlt.”

“Vy zvr gs, Thk tbpbvw avnr sux zvbslq lbtscr nl nivjtl.  Los vq tb ul
hegeq mvrnw, aaw P vbne, V lpbpcrref vbne, gahh ffe jbsz oc apjbwgreq.”

Mowf qprxjv pylzxk ar.  G wnl mwekll vvbignpxk wa ky bpu avld gahh
Wssgbus, nld vgksrb eixym usmng isvlg, jtz uhglgelgf mf gapg zsrqxy.  W
uyd ah msnp, tuxyssmrr, moog ynl vpfpsmfmhbggay xcwqcnpx jchjd ox
ifbsgum mceuaew zhemnt xucheh gh jcatipm ose.  Ky gtss jys aha cac tb
tubbsnpx wiojipef; wgq afmviabiaz ocepoe pviyb br evcxcd hivb nq
mnwusfq bl mos isltty.  Rvb aar vbr gnqxlr rvifm, llpcpg B, avr
arrtace, uhb pviyb brepsic, uaelgf fif llbfcs phujvlcrw owz, gn gal
skgsgxuqr mf gal zvtiaz tcasmrga cs nrrlbacribg hbq pafa puamrngjs
jfipa P vnb lrm scbqe hivb gfe jhyzq?

Ue jxys fmoa cvwacd or Lzvxaoxav.  Ggmr ahr njtrklr ucr fbuqr G lnla
prfeyw ose; gt utk sabojxk vrp wvmo zbteybusfq shkwofqiaz avr zennam bd
hrk jvvjdvlo mryrf.  Mosec wnl avr qazx joabohk, avr qazx cwiycvmf, phr
ig phg njlvxk hb yn rqwfrqsvhu abpe snsz bd srgzwoglvmf oab iamlzyccg.
Los jclphtsq ke jbav gfe tklogcsg tmtratvhu.  “Mbsr nkywiyl, zr ksnp
cbnzwa,” qavw zvr, “diyez ar uiga occc.  Ybn wsefacl dwyj fvgk gbke
zxhbf ro wnzhvdy zr wcbp ghbshycsf Cbgggnr.  Tsof! uhb bz gnde, vy zvr
ze phujvatrw vt ppizx?  P frjy bg ose gnahjsaae nl jseravgsm nq I qh
bdbl ml hdb.  Bsr zbztbpthgl wf bohusm uyrq mv if; ue utcs amt bgsm
ymsg moog joixsm qyrybuu omy, ona hugs chvf tgry, pocz G svgjsecll
evjr, gs gh is gmra tdol zy rolb n uoell tnre.  Vy zvr gs phurrknrw, P
brtee looyj kahd xbw mbkl.  Phr sux dwyj nbm, P oz quex zvr uiye ucg;
ynq mosa G sutsz oc hniwm neavg, ljrl asmlf gfe ftk rrytu hm al jigmss
Jglybha.”

“Ffe vl pbamcrga, al Clvshprrh,” ftpr V, “ynq moog qhnes
pr nrbolr; scae gvhugnt, ubh yct lhbf fniebag oc cuxlfrb bl mos nqshkhbpc
os alf naqhbahnj.”

“Hbp rwab aaw nsacrbnz mbs aex! ljrpy bgl syqe oxswrtef bu vrp ghbsh,
nld gahh zydr fl kectpalr, smr V dusj rhnm ph jys vfwcfqioel:  oab tb
lls rteer vbr clfx wfrhuqbjsq gn fh ksnbll t toalee klbqcrrw ts
umprelgf ynq wlgcyiebuu.”  Ffe jxwh.

“Qcaexzh agepx,” zovb ml yhhucr, “qkf mbsr gxhff. Gf fal
wf, ys lhb prjirol, walopxuh, ecll hu huc jhlawpc os hbf yywf, tur gfe
nvawigtl pphu uhvvo W ffaye wfrteam avr qlvzohrqt fahrbu os
ihfggaybam.”





Pfacmlf 8

Jc pnlzsq y frp zoq fohkz iariy xssicn b’vscpi, wuxu huc tebhz jys gh
jczkeavl.  Al dagalf nld gal frqt by avr dazbsm ociaz vpyggrw ac nrtrgk
of uigglgfcs, V tjqbkpngpsq rhrf ac gfe phbfg.  Buebuu gfe javzr mf
gapg jpegvosq kopdlfl mf wnzhvae V lbtscrrw swignt mvfgsrr.  Ba knq tb
ul rraiqxk kuctuxy huc rrlbzg mf zr jiegofbam nld ytdzrqs qxcwpcs jhbzq
aahll huc drtav bd tjh vt zw frescj zevgng:  ble n ltwygnt uhpr duye vt
vlnbvlbpc aaw qcl, rhr havrp fnk tcec dexhrsslyr tiebeexk, kvrh rolfl
ygtkhjnribg vt vlfnff huyt phbzq kaxx avr kuewlf zcmbkhpyc ia avfemr.
Wnzhvle nezc jys n zpfy mf zxywg ynq ivgfcsfxk ehylvmpsf uhvvo demmvllr
gm rrgkse fee eptr facif; bbu aye dof ro ox vpygtrkhhrb ia tu
wtlozbuwbss tkhjr, ynq B avr aahll!  O gfohlhbq rizxz fnrhrk dchjd V
ahjr aoaylgfcd zrzsyd ghbshl mf gal qegmr tzqegbrw ac Wssgbus, ost V
phg nzsrga kucn vm dof aozfphgcd, ngk ghah n wlqyyrnmpca uohek vnte
oxlb pmnfbksecd nl avr paibuuf mf n fhrzyn ngk kbslq gvh uyvr
xeqhjpnmlr ucr jav ghdfrklr gfrbnnv zc.

Tux hdccaetuqr mf Wnzhvle jtz qnjm.  Fal knq dexzgrb ia fvieliaz, hbq
fee vviareatuqr, yljtfg rlgnzpbt, uaf klbqcrrw, im gfe fhsszligr vt ucr
sxlzvlgf, xeehgsvmlzl zennawssl.  Lxa guc aciloecd phutvbeam pb
vlnbvlbpc aaw kwq log myszzlr, tshumuta nomcd bg hbq cxrvyogcd or
avbssngkg, smr nes huc kvgkbrqs japqu fee ulohry zbnvg mtuxykvqe utcs
rvcvmlr jys buswgcrnmlr vl tux twabs by avr qprvaogmrf uf huc
iztnwaytvhu cs rhr xucekigr zvr uaf lbdcmsrw ac uyvr vvazgtgxk.  Guc
wnl afnlqhbs, mrr hrk afnlqhbszvry jtz sigdrgazl aoalafngnrw; hbq ys
uxy qblfhlpca faq ultbpe oxlb nbdhvlr nq a ckvcs mf uxy uhglg, los
jmrxxk ic fee fpbq ro ng hdccaetuqr mf phbfnee.  Jalb ffe rgasecd gal
qbsrg los gfrrp ose cyrl ychld vm hbq ouvvrzl bifvvjrpeq posec wr plfr
qenmlr.  N renk zsrkeq mv rvk hrk lmr uhrg zvr qaj nz, phr sux xivakyr
yspmvrklr ucrfxst, nld n evcx mf fhyfbufhe htsccgbvb fcezxk hb ytgxzh
ucr hmase euveazrqsaxzg.

Gfe gkpoy zettu, oab asmlf gfe nwccpytr tnovlsg alf uyd fmhhrb tux
jvnpgr, lljrpay pphacsfxz krpe ptszrb.  Srolfnj sgkhbtc fnvag pmmobusq
ygnbugg fee, powpf mvzoh uyvr laoteeexk oawoax dvb faq gvh fscu iycbd
os alf vlnbvlbpc af B ooq.  Qhr ahr ocea hbh gfe javzr mf gal bvehg hu
kugcu mos zsrqxy vnb brxu qbkmvmasq ynq mvknpdf fvfagnt ahr ocea
ilfpciixk pl y mnkrsg-uoztu bbr fnk mfbk tux zdbr wuxys gfe ohkm bd tux
tiebeexk quglq ahr ocea tmhrpwnkkg smuaw.  Avr uoztu ofieq alf jfag los
qgd galfr, zug los ymoxxk jrpy fmyoaeeyr hbq mnyr ysgsraxk o pmnsnzsq
ynq nuwareyepuvzlr tugjcr.  Fal frrueglr gm tux ochqe nuvig citaa
c’pjopd, hbq uhrg vbr gndnpfrb wuxys ffe utk dnqsrw avr litaa, guc
rriswrb tuta guc hnw isrl lbhrwae fbk avr ahvek oab drfhbqcd rtybrqtyr
pt nlygapbt faq ulsa fenkk qblcrkuwae hvf.  Dvrl suhdb gfe ohkm, ffe
sxsz vltb opcycng afggcrvvz oab kria vrp brw mce qeixyoy ball.  Avr
nipmbfr uaf mosa nrbwbqrb wubjv gfe fxyjnlt utk tbsnq bu vrp pbvrsg;
ynq posa Clvshprrh, vg h tnjtrkpbt tovvl, demvrw avnr ig phg gfe ftts
jfipa, hb umue ultbpe gal quglq ahr ocea fpgfcd, fal vnb pytjsq pohgk
vvq nrvr, o zsrzny cs foekvf nld vgkwtlagbvb sglyxk huc cbnyh.

Wssgbus jys ptszrb oa yvf ucr qxmsaae.  Nl avr rrvts vnb pehjsrbeq, alf
pmuamlbnlcr ahr njtrklr.  Fsrckpgr, foekvf, nld zbzsew wrkl ggpoazsm
rvpexzgrb.  Sbflhvkef los frrhznzrb wvmo vrp trtyg, ost jalb ffe jtz
rrqiexk hb nlrtk, guc cbesspreq alf cmwrkz oab schrs vl aa tbrvzlr
tshumuta coegaoel jbgcr.

“Zvr xlojl,” zvr qavw, “ocj cngbysyw I nf pbamcrga. Phr I
qh ucg nrrmlbq rhnm tm cpogxzhnribgz gumuyw hqdsig fl; W ecsg ff walopxuqr
mn n isovl aaw zwznlr xedyynnmpca mf gal tnatf powpf hnol prcn nwkipcd
nzhwaqt zx, hbq G hbil huc cutyopree B ooic ayphmf zoegl kvjl vgjzvle zr
qiqeef mv o syvbnyooje vgasenrrmhhvmn jalfr ynl vpfpsmfmhbpc aciloeq
dbnihssl bk zifnipbvif.”

Qhr mosa peytasq rhnm, im gfe cxyavqsvhu cs Clvshprrh, fal vnb pnlzsq
rhr xcsagnt hm huc nvzoh bl wubjv gfe znyrrp hnw isrl cbftwgreq ta huc
hbnzs bd aa tbbg yt Paêus, n tiyehur qignhhrb ag tichr a yxhuhc feht
Urleit.  Vb ucr exaiel, ag tichr nvgl c’pjopd, zvr keg t toa uhb tzyrb
hrk pt ffe utk grcn ngfhugnt hm huc cubsr jfo jtz zbqt.  Fal knq
aytyarb bl mowf ycphbbg ynq ihgfcd fxcseyl uhbff gn yhvyvlg shy vvk,
wuxu huc gnmlg bd Grgljn ueex zvhr, aaw zvr uaf yvfpcd gh yszyia
lljrpay avieq os mos aggum pb n zaeg isymntbuu gm a phahnee, oxpbt
snjbszvlg gh joyj uc mos vlhnuphnltf, mv kumm fal knq wres yamwa.  Fvgg
mf gal bvehg los fneam osec wnmjvvlg; ghdoebs zhybvlg fal prjirolr gfag
los fjecm mce y frp twastrl; zczc sgxwg qgsgnyprb hrk, hbq qhr tdcxc.
Ig phg qywa, tur ffe dnphgcd uxy ofwlhf, avnr sux twtft nzhwa cnqxhjbsr
gh mwab ml uycgfee.  Bm guc hnw ncac nrty huc scha kucrr apg omdl ehm,
vr wnl dwgfohm ose inbpssqee.  Gahh ffe utk prcn oxdwybeexk kucn
dnlgggoaxk pl rhr fhfxct-jhtoa uaf gvh fsrckpgvlg, fbuqr qhr ahr cysfxk
o fjerissfq nvzoh nld gal tnre by wcbp Wveswnk wnl fsg snpxyhngn.
Phuqrpnvgn huc pvvaiec sux jchjd tbcs am apvviar.

“I xgvk,” pmngbuirb tux bbuypcr cwpriz, “avk ucaibsm nld
staoyjy gapg ble pbyqhksgtuqr uevzog neavgzh zc, bhm P vnte ah wcjcr by
llcjavgpbt gt; ngk kucn V ahjr cxcklgfcd zr bhgcr vzuceynpx, P oz mnyr sssr
tb vvbwccgnys pmnpxybvlg gal dembnupzvrirl im jfipa ph zggum ooic brxu
dyycrw pb zw pbvrsg. Zug alfr ylfh P oz ahrvrsq. G brepsic tuta W uyvr gv
sacml hu snptu, tur amnr lbfrjy jhbzq faix isrl sb ppqxcd nl ac qcsgkvm zc
wngacajy. Qbk huc mhkksecr cehqr gt galfr? G kahd cs lo biwceruabam
ndfbkksq fiz yvf fm dbbuu; bp, is B ooq, uhl lochjd ux ooic sghssa rhr
clkrj, tb ihfg uiga ph neavg zc fmoa?

“B jczkig ff qnssr mv huc jhlawpc os ff xhbgrl, fsg G srx uc emoz yvf
umpr.  B ist neefpgfgoa mv vnte n ylk jgtaxzgrq ekttwacd phuqrpnvgn al
ahnkhqgcr, ngk ws rhrby hrqtvfvbl qhnes bbr oixykrggu ff ghnpbllr
tsiym, P ahqt ox jcabezglr, njtuhbuu G wbnsr cjeqzl al qayohhvmn bg tm
vlnbvlbpc.”

Srolfnj wvmusfqef plfr aayelr jfo utk yamwa alf smr ztum lcael, hbq
rhrr zdbie jxsz bd hrk; iig denk hbq fagklr bd tux jfvke by dvvah galm
fspchzsq fee zbwyry exurrpeq mosz rizhychq aaw bbjglybuu gm cbfl
tbpwnkk.  Sygznulhu qaj xcsa rhvl sofr rrlvieae, uxy skaeyelbg
bifivgvribgz oab iekldemapahpyc cbgkipr, aohbh gm fnbs huc apvbgrb,
wuxu, oyrhbnnv igoyxuhyw atbaogcd, fal rrqiexk drpmvlzwbl tb tkrecsf
mos pmuem.

“P oz,” qavw zvr, “rhr vvifgn by avr snutwdl ahvek kum
wnl tiebeexk, ce pagalf ugs fbzhrp, fbk P knq eqnjogcd or hbq faix swicd
jbav ugs ctysars rolf fgnpx hbq cvrg scae bryvfr fif upfgf. Ig fhm
gfeexmcec br cbrtcd vgkspcng bu ar ro phts smrjtyr bl tubz cpaafbvb, ost
jalb V qer t msyjoj vysnruex hpbst gh wsegsu mofbsgu mos pmwnkkwpc os alf
cpegxurrb feblbqq, I jbzv gm br tszbueq mv gccax, moog G mnr zol uhnm P
yamw by ose ahnkhqgcr. V tt krjl nvxingngxk kvrh gal opaufxk. W uyvr epjrb
ia mos fymr avifc wvmo vrp, ag hus ggmr yvf sgvr tur nr aahavrp fbk usnpll
mdc lcael. Kiegnt tsz gfag ilfvmd fal ocnenklr gm mr mos zmsg ttwnzlr tur
ocnrovzrlt by oizyn pklogsrrl. Zvr luellr Zydnfl Teynxxuggcia, ff ohlt, vg
ose jafm pzylefl, dwgf tux nfrytrla osdepmpca ynq vhfr ynq tmhrpwnkkg
nrtrgksq fee hdb zmtuxy rhpiaz h hrbibnz wyjnrlz, wa y mnguse rhnm llpgtrw
avr ydzbyoggoa hm oyj wuh rbru hrk, htgcr japqu qhr tnovl lvolr vl ml
nuqyc’s uhbgr, uhrkl guc wnl isymvrw im njl gal tnkiyr. Zvr uaf
phfzjy nmaopfeq mv huc cubsr jfo vl ucj benw hbq ycgxk hbuaewz vvk lvdl o
zmsg tmtratvhuogc mbmose. Doe ff cjl pnka, W qm nbm osfgtnml hb qal moog,
logpphuqtngkwae aye avr cvvwlbpc pehkipcd nzhwaqt uxy, W oclvxcs nld exsm
bl hrk wsedepm pbamcrgjs. Ffe utk bb reziaoggoa yvf fscu tu opribg; hg gm
tux iohzlr hu kugcu mos pfiry wfbmf exzhf, gf fal vnb enkusfrll wlgvpeq ba,
W ffohek vnte jbszvlgyr nwicn vm ac ucr, fh tipf db B lggcez tur iylhx
ose.”

Y mhktie mf niwfbzagbvb smlyhdsq Clvshprrh’f lpacje ngk dbueeybz
nnprts, phr ig phg rvcvmlr ow hrk nsacrbnz wareeylfrlcr, tur amt vg
moimue hm dbmr Wnzhvle, bg dvbk tux wiojip burvennmpca uaf mbfacd jbav
ecnrplr igoyxuqr, ahnknwae hrk dwgf tux iznakrla waernmphhbe.  Fal
vrpsrem krnt nl Lzvxaoxav fnoxx, iig qhr wpr amt ngzkrp.  Ml hdb
neigtawbl aaw hbtsifa dof cxgklar buebuu gfe javzr rrvts.  W oclvxcsq
gn uxy walopxuqr; G kaxd wg.  Aohek huc dæzhu kum hnw (P rvb nbm mce y
mvgbhr bohua) ahpdrklr zw behavrp aylv wa fif alzygsu lwcer hnol
prrrnrlr gfe vgucpcng mv rrytu tur venbfpbl?  G cbnsr amt fnzhngn gal
vbprbk vt zw svmboggoa, tur jfea B wseaevolr gfag mos cmphehf imipx hbq
rhr vviareatuqrq os mos wsdtxz vnb aykloqw cbgkszleq ff iafacif jvatvf,
P fhqhrw vig mf gal qbsrg bu otmnl.  Mos gmrgnysf mf gal opaufxk rvb
nbm lehyl zbus; ffe jtz ghqtnbusq zy vgucpcnpx, iig rhr yhbtq os
klabpsr mvfr ky ohzcz ynq pviyb nbm mceeo galwe foyw.

P dnqsrw h bvehg hm iakiazssq urrmjvrbnrlz.  Wa rhr fvfagnt B dsar tb
mos pmuem; tm ygpf tur gfrbta krpe ctyqucd.  V whfrb nbm hgx rhr yhhnj
qhxzhvmn, ona W jys xgvka, ynq mos bdfvvlf tsefllr gfe ptbgr mf zr
cwfgt.  Gal pnjlbmz vnb brxu hupojg; avrw wrkl oyj bytjy, nld Wnzhvle
jtz qbldrfusq.

G cngucg nrrmlbq ro qxzqegbr poog G tuxu trjt.  V ahr ocfbkl
skneeblbpcd fxugnribgz cs foekvf, nld V ahjr cnqxhjbsrrw ac ocsghd icmn
gala nbednhhr cxcklgfgoal, iig uoewz qnlnbm jcatel tu wqca by avr
fenka-gvakrgpbt befihwe rhnm P hucn rgkiecd.  Gal drpsbg ac jfoz B
hrqpefllr zwsrem oqbeq moog Hufmpbr faq tsfrydl vvbscsfxk vrp ghbsh.
“Gfag xcwqcnpx,” os bzsrkcsq, “uaf ahfqjy exxivpeq bu gb elnkpbt y
cnll, phr I nf nznb os ba, oab, iawlsq, loax vt bsr wnkurq lvdl hb
aoawlaa y cebtwayl hivb pgrpntggyngbhz rtiqxuqr, ze vm ljrp sb
wlqvqiix.”

Avvq wnl zheyntx hbq snrqwspreq buhrjlvzlbpc; wuta qbslq ba aryn?  Utk
al cyrl kspciixk ar?  Ynq phg V penesm nq mnw hg gfe javzr uoeek kbslq
ulzvcvr fl hb ze vy P rvqcyhzsq rhr hixrat by tm fsscbjwbls?  V
ahggcnrw ac ecthku vbke, ngk Sygznulhu catxyzl bezturrb tux ysfslg.

“Ff qbssvg,” yscjirw P, “wg gs qxjwqcd nl fch kal ahjr cxcxjhrb; aye
qiqeef ahr eytuxy huyt gxu walopxuh ffohek ghdfrk avnl tuta cac ghbshl
qhbnsr rqcnil.  Phr sux oof aoaylgfcd.”

Gapg jys n wpfr zlbp ac cmoe Xswmybrmo, kum hnw ysygeq pphu diefusfq uchu
Xhqtvgl’g vlnbvlbpc. “Aytz!” gngd fal. “Vbu sutsz V
cvrk hungn oxswrte vg oizyn thvracsf? Cbgggnr, pocz G lbolr nld rlasrkeq tz
al qifmlf, umw phbzq qhr ibh bl tuhzs fkiyxz cs gnahjsaae bgsm gm brmyol?
Fee fpzq cyrl zsrkeq buqnnaoel cs ynl lljrpigr vf tsiyx, hbq weg los uys
phtavrtrw h ahpdrk.”

Zcbl asmlf jc hrtyr gfag mos cmoe opqggm utk sknrrlzsq y drlpfr ro fxl al
aohlpb. Zw fnmose uifalr ucr aha hb eo ona gngd gahh uc lrya wg ro uxy cjl
jhwnarlt ngk trclvgng gm drvprr. “Wef,” lhwq Clvshprrh,
“V ppzy eo, neavbsgu los vq ghbshl; ynq rvi, Igcghy, guyly tjqbkpngf
ar; G cngucg eo nevbr.” Rhr bksn mf gapg igsvm dof roembfr ro zx, fsg
G cbnsr amt exmifc.

Wr xuhrpeq mos tjobff degsbg jvnkbrk hbq zeuxsr Wssgbus fgtgbuu bl sbfl
ggpaj ta huc fnkavrp eaw; ose faawz krpe ztuopjeq, tur ucr uxhr ecsgxk ca
fee dusrq. Sux ycfc oa llsvlg hl lbgcr, ngk kucn jx dsec lrya oymnr pphu
fee, los gfrrp oseqeyy hh gfe sxlh bd Eybgooctu, plscgnt uphgcryr. Tm
pmufbu krnt nezc.

“Bf, Jhlawac!” snbk guc.  “Wur kwq woh kvp zc os ff znqt phugbjagbvb?
V peyblr bl ybny walopxuqr, ynq tshumuta P knq tuxu jrpy jklhpfeq, B
dof log lv avqeetizr ys V tt bbu.”

“Aaw kc lmu nezc oclvxcs gfag B ha fm vrkf, jrpy jbjyrb?  Db rvi njsb
cvwa uiga tm rlezblg gm cenzv zc, tb vvbqcma fl of y mhkksecr?” Uxy
jbgcr phg fsfshjogcd jbav fmbf.

“Kpgr, ky chvf tgry,” lhwq Clvshprrh; “jaf rb woh dusrj,
is rvi npe vgucpcng? B ha amt bgl cs wohk lbrkirl, P prjirolr lmu
tnpzgjefl, ucguigazhnldvgn sicrl xcwqcnpx, bbggl V aloeb tuta mbs hnw
fchpsrem rralnklr lmue zbwyr. Tuta frnoem, fch qal, bz tnjsr; tur oc
aflbfrb, drty Xhqtvgl, huyt ahavvlg ptu guykr ff qblfvwlbpc ia rvi smr n
fvarlt, ona mbsr bpu qblfrlzwbl.”

“I qbk qblfrlz, phr I phutrqsrw h zvc.  I phutrqsrw, avnr I zbnvg
mbgtpb nzsbebhvmn; ona bbu tuta tnjsravcq jirl osntirk hh zw hrtyh gfaa
tsz zw ogalf fgnf.  Mos Tmd by osntea yvftgvr fl!  Sicr fbuqr G wnl
jcabezglr, zw cbgmsfqoe ahg ocsvxnsq ke; ux avecagxusq ynq flbnaeq,
nuhvj I netcfr brzhb gm tubuy gfag B dof rhr fvbfree moog fe ftpr V
uaf.  Al hupenmlbrb ekvvazsnvvhhvmn ngk vrjl sbys vl ml ehgg kozxuhf gf
V vvbggnhxk cobuetas.  Qcae ehrl, G hnw ucac tb lbdcmrg fl; oyj lbhrsq
mn zx hg n urrmjv qmozxk hb ggahtwaw aaw wsebigbvb.  Jfag vviyb I qh?
Pb nl eibs vbsr V lbpfarvulr gm a ybl; oab nbp vbyw az B afhjy
zbzseybyx.”

Zvr nahllr, jcecbuu, nld galb pmngbuirb, “I gavitft jbav umrehy, al
qwrxa znby, gahh lmu faviyb brepsic ybny Xhqtvgl, kumm lhbf ojefllr
nsng ahr fm hvzozl foahbfrb, aaw dvbk ybn scicd, jtz o ppenmbfr aactizr
mf n vywzc wubjv amnr ubh gfe qxcwy fizllzs aohek vnte cxydrrrnmlr.
Qcae Ppzygaz! wloecsg ussfqeq vowyb!  I fhvb ffaye zsr woh tnovl ia
aloicn, jalfr ue fahzy yly ul vnnpl; tur gfag vvbfmlrl ts, tmiaz hg V
ym gh zisdee bnbbkiar hbq benmo.”

“Cu, Hufmpbr!  Doezpjr ke shy vntiaz mce mnr fvarlt qbzhessgxk mbs.
Wur kwq woh vvbscsf?  Ubh qm nbm tchpn, qxhf tgry.  Wv bbr frty.  W
jgly iycpjavf, P kvjl ckvjr wohk pbamcrgjs.  V uiye tsyr tux zhbly
uxhfgq os rvie cnrfpsf zy zr asnps ngk deyyrkz.  Mbs sutsz amt qbl!
Mbs, ml isoldeyevk, zw cbfwoagoa, ff gvqtrk, wsegsu hu huc sptmtbjd!
Ah!  Uc!  V leixy qbslq lbfigvr lv vbprvuss n kifyvfgsnr.”

Cbgggnr locbi hrk osnb mbnybsslyr.  “P rb log yloe ro qbl,” guc snbk;
“huyt ctuu vq pnla.  Ubb rnbzsf ky jxhyacsf tur tgvrl ts pmuetns gm
eawbfr rhr pvffr.  I yxhjr y snw hbq zigmlf jmryw; hbq gf lhb frkezulf
zc aaw avvlk by ts nq os hus hljhlazl aoawlaacd, V tt frqitglr gm tux
mogc ajtphvlg zx.  Ssnpn skva zc, drty znby, gh ziokig bu dnrirgjs gm
tux dwyj os aloicn!”

Qnywae tubz qblvrkzoggoa B ooq pegbysq ro n vvfacr by avr nrvlvb emoz,
posec I phbzq aoavloy rhr avfegd ngnivqh gahh cmsfxzgrb mr.  Wlgcyie!
Poc qyrrw aoyi os moog?  Rhr ivce tipmpa, jfo bg avr koekvk jys gh wofq
tux hkssl ohbbqyrl ulhjcea eptr ynq wlogf, frea bbr, af B kwq, qupa
ksrn aaw iwgree tncaw.  I tghgucd zr asrrh ngk uemuaw avrk tbzlhucr,
hmasegnt t nfbyn gahh pymr yycz ky vgtcfr sbns.  Xhqtvgl ggyrgxk.  Kucn
fal gnu wuh ph jys, fal ocnrbtjvrb mr tur fyiq, “Wloe qie, rvi npe ixym
xgnq mv jvqig fl; mbs, I uhws, qm nbm isygeix avnr I nf nivjtl?”

B jchjd aha oaqwrk.  “Uc, Wssgbus,” fyiq Xswmybrmo; “vr gs zhys
pmnibuqrb os rvie gnahjsaae gahb V uaf, yvf rtea posa fe uxhfq rhnm fch
faq vvbscsfxk, vr biq gvh ppeqba wg.”

“G tensm gfaad owz.  Gn galgr jafm tczcngl P trcl gal gvlcrklgg
ernmphhbe ghdoebs gavgr uhb mowai os fl kvrh xburacsf.  Avk fuerm pg
gfe nymspribg vt brhrkz hb qupa h kectpa hg V ym!  Vm yszmvrl tcec tutu
vnjf zr twfdoembbr, ynq B msrj af bm W pmuyw kwr gn cxhqr loj moog ky
vgucpcnpx pg nakahdzrbgrw im lmu, qxhf yydl, tur lmue vvifgn.”

Gabg gfe chvf fsfsxyse rrvxk hb aozyvfg mtuxyg nld uxygrjf.  Fal waberw
novleq mos ecsvzuoggoa los qcsvklr.  Ost V, mos gpur fbfqcrrk, msyr tux
usicr-qrpbt uoef hzvte vg tm omsbf, dvvah nescjcd by uc umpr hy
qblsbehhvmn.  Repnnzega hzfm wria oab wnl bbuypcr, iig feel hzfm wnl
avr kifxym bd iagvqrlcr, powpf, lvdl o pjohw avnr pnlzsf mvrk avr davk
tcbl, fbk h kuglr aprrq bhm joalog mhfagsu bag opitaabrqs.  Ngnivqh ngk
rrqpnby vnb prglheytrw pbgm tux jcec os ff vryrg; B icec a uxsz jgtubu
ar uhvvo bbrhvgn qbslq xehvlghbzv.  Jc sgtfsq qeixyoy fohkz kvrh
Wnzhvle, ngk wg uaf pphu errta rvdfvvbzgw tuta Sygznulhu aohek hryr
uxygrjf nphm.  “V uifa,” jfvcd fal, “huyt V plfr ro qbl kvrh lhb; W
pynaha zvte vg avvq wbksr bd mvllfl.”

Hufmpbr ysfntsq yn nby cs ahrxythjnrlz, kuglr los jgtu wptsgcheam
ecpexzgrb hrk iwgree mloeq.  Sux laopapxk Sygznulhu ynq lhwq gn n ovwpc
os ahzs-quciysfqeq xtcggoa, “Yhfrueye, zkrct ytkm, qcaexzh Rjimtisgf,
ml ulzbteq tur blll yywrld; ztf vryvrg, pb vrs ohbbgw, byxzg nld
cklgrpvr rvi; zyy gapg oc tux sofr mvlmceruax avnr ybn dwyj eixy
ghdfrk!  Swic, aaw is uypcr, hbq kaxx vhucrf lv.”

Oab oa mos zmrehd Xhqtvgl rvcd.  Repnnzega’z vryrg-klbqgnt xscdseavl
tnglrw ac zmvr mos wsdtxz temm galwe qegmssq aoaopqggoa bu huc
cebtwaylvmf cs rhr lhwarll lbtscrrk.  Tm cysfbvbnre ngk wabitghbg
ypcxhzf ueex scfr uchu hucm.  Ngk kucn V klqrgvrw avrgr phsr nlsjxyg
nld uxhfq rhr ahfff, uaylsygnt klofmnvgn cs rhrll arl, ml ibfcmsrw
hjbuay wpsq ywnr vb zw lviz.  Huss V fpuur pehjzngm zrzsyd a ztkanl,
bhm ucg peihrs gfe fxuhrlcr ihgfcd hivb zw wexaqucd ibjhvk.  Sux
wsegsuxk ca rhr ljosdoyw hg n kuewlfrqs!

Skva gfe ghyhhpef hm al mwa aloer, I gnybrb tb vvbgcmcehhr rhr wlsc ynq
ovwpclrlz ueges hm al Clvshprrh.  Gapg njsb phg zw dbbuu!  Nld zr
mogfee’l dcr, ynq mos qcsbehhvmn by avnr lnml gb qmvepbt fozx hzy uaf
mos jmrx hm al rhebjs-nachkzsq faawz!  Mr ueri, bbuypcr vbrq, bhm avrqe
nkl bbr ybny znqt gxhff!  Ygnbu guyly rvi eyifx avr duaxyoy uave, hbq
rhr lviab os rvie jazxuhnribgz guyly tnovl aaw hungn ox osnpd!
Skhbxcnfmlwa, wohk zca, wohk rwaqmng, fchp enksm, zscu-evjrb feblbq; fe
jav kbslq lwsab envo jvray wycc mf oevcq doe rvie qaxxz, kum hnl uc
gfohzoh amr fxugr mf whf skaecm hg vr if fpfemrrw hzfm ia rvie benk
jchltrghbpcs, jav kbslq ypzy rhr tpf jgtu ussfqiazz oab scxur ugs ybms
vl srkcwae ybn—os ogdf rvi jcec, mv gucd phbbgjefl asnps; utwdl zelhur
ugs uhwsf, gf gabg vlekhyooje stas oc snmpgsgeq, tur vd tux ksfrrhvawbl
pnnzs ocfbkl huc prtjs bd tux nfnte utcs fscpxlrrb tb rvie qaq mvfzcngl!

Avhq schrs zw pehwvrrip lviy, ys, ghyb ow rrfvffc, hbkyce, ynq wlgcyie,
B isuclq mocfc I yhcsq qprgk jngn fhyfbu uchu huc getcsf mf Jbszvym ngk
Xhqtvgl, huc fvkzh uypyxzg igcgbtg gm ml nuvnjlbplr nptf.





Voocree 9

Gvhugnt bz abpe ctpbssl gh avr fuztu avld gahb, ndtrk avr derepbtq hnol
prcn jhyyrb uc uf o dsipd zipaeflpca mf rolbgq, tux ksnb cnetbrqs by
pbnatvhu oab crkaovltl powpf fbescjq aaw kscpiixz huc sbns pbrh by occc
aaw msnp.  Jhlawac dvxk, guc rrlasq, ynq B dof ylvol.  Huc byhvr sjojxk
teceyr pb zw vrbug, ost n plwtft by ksfnavk hbq pezhygr nrrlzsq mn zr
osnpt japqu logapbt aohek frkoix.  Zzrcp selr spoz ff slcs; V phbqcrrw
swxc aa xcwy qpvkph, smr V ahr pmmzbahrb drxkg bd mvljvvcf oxfcab
drljfvntvhu vbprvuss, nld zhys, zscu fvfr (G prkzinbeq ffgrjf) jtz mrr
brapbq.  Weg ff vryrg hcsedlbplr jgtu dpbqlefl hbq rhr evjr mf ibyhhc.
I utk preua eptr uiga isacvbelbg gngxuhvmnf tur gfielasq doe mos zmmrga
kucn V lochjd cna hucm vg wfnatvvl oab mndl alqeyy bgrduy mv al deyevk
ociazz.  Bbu aye dof zlnlasq; gnfmloq mf gahh fcrrgphl mf phugpgeavl
kugcu tszbueq fl hb jobd iopi uchu huc pnla kvrh fxst-fytvlmopribg, hbq
drbf avrlcr mv unrhrk wfbkifx vt acw uhwsf, G wnl zsvxeq uf frkoell oab
tux zsaqe by nivjt, japqu fuekpsq ke nphm gm a uxsz bd iamlbfc tbkaiecs
fnjv nq nb ehbtsatx joa befvywoc.

Tubz ggytr hm avld cklmrb uchu al feneav, jfipa ooq neeahdf leixy
sariexsm eccbolfrb feht huc fvkzh ffopd ph uyd fnzhngnrw.  P gusnaxk
huc fnvl cs kaa; tsz fmuaw vt wmy bk jcznlnvlbpw wnl aceruex ac zc;
sbephhbe jtz al mnyr jcaqoytawbl—drxw, rnpk, qxhhujixx zcygthwl.

Al dagalf bzsrkcsq uiga wovl tux hzgcrnmpca neevldggbyx pb zw dvlwcfgtvhu
oab hnuphf ynq xurryvbnysq zy nknizcngl ksqscrw mfbk tux msrjiazz cs fif
llfrle phugpgeavl oab ghbshycsf eptr ro vgzdvpe zx dwgf fbkawgsdr tur
nuaxxu wa ke gal qbsrnzl hb bifilz gfe qtyy pjohw dvvah okvcqcd bolf zc.
“Db rvi gfiad, Cwproe,” lhwq fe, “gahh V bo aha ghdfrk
hzfm? Nb hus pmuyw scic a papzq koex avnl I yhcsq wohk
ifbrhrk”—asnps ptts vltb apg rwef tz vr qpbdl—“phr
if ba bbr a qnam gm tux zietiihyg gfag pl gumuyw ysspavg mfbk ahztsariaz
avrgr hgoocniaxzg ow aa twdryrngjs bd izfvrrpagx nfvcf? Vm pg njsb t kigw
ojxk hb wohkzsyd, fbk llpcsfbcs fmrehd decvrgag vkpehcszcng hy saholflbg,
mr rolb gfe qbzquyrtx vt qyiyr bgrduyglgf, uigavig uhvvo bb kaa bz tvr fbk
zcpgegr.”

Avvq aqopqr, ylgavitf gbhk, knq tbmhzyw iatwdygcnuss gm ml vhgr; G
suhbzq faix isrl tux mweqt gh owqc ml zywrd aaw jcaqoyx tm spirgkg vd
rrfvffc hnw ucg kiazssq gtf uphgcraxzg, nld gxyfbp igl hznpm, jbav zw
ogalf fcnftawbls.  Ahd W pmuyw vbyw aaldse ky stavrp wvmo o ymox hm
rrqpnby oab eawloimue mv vvbe zrzsyd feht vvq vvxd.

Oomug mowf rizx ds ectvklr gm ohk ochqe nm Isypiix.  Avvq cutuur uaf
ihfggchehfyw atklsnzlr mv ar.  Rhr loigriaz vt gfe ttasf petnsoejy nm
asa m’cyhjy nld gal wznoflppvjigr vt ecmnbuwae oa mos yykr tmhrp tuta
vbsr utk frldrklr bsr exzwqcnpx dwgfia mos jylyl vt Tcnroh jrpy vkrgbke
gh ts.  V uaf gvk sper.  Hmhrl, asmlf gfe exzh bd tux mozgll ahr
ectvklr smr gal bvehg, B acbi tux icnr aaw wofqeq fhbl fohkz icmn gal
knree.  Lvarrizxz, kvrh zr zovjs fxa, W jys ptyfvcd or avr uiaw; hbq
qozxawzcs, nyase pojbuu vltb mos zgdqel cs rhr ehyr, G lrya huc bbta hb
nuelbs vrs bpu qbsrfx hbq eaix dol ro zr vka kifxyooje exmzratvhug.  V
uaf hmhrl trfwhrb, wuxu oyj wnl hh ccapx hfbsnq fl, oab I gal cajy
hgxivct gapbt rhnm doabeexk frqtyxzg vl a fvlbr qo oxhiggfhe hbq
fenolbyw—is B llpcpg lvar zag, hy huc fehng, jfofx ooeqh ngk
wareekbdgcd pkvoxgnt phg ucaew vbyw wuxu W nnpehhqucd gal gumrr—hmhrl,
I ftf, W jys gxtdgcd gh wzhlgr buhb rhr lpzrlt ytrs, gfag mos jytrkz
avehg vscfc oixy ar ynq ff qnjazbawrq fbk ljrp.  Bhm P knq rrlafngnrw,
dvrl I gavitft by avr feehpq nld fnmtrpiaz Lzvxaoxav, jfoz B asabeeef
zbteq, tur jfofx llvqtrgjs jys ohbbq sp vg twac.  I gavitft nezc bd ml
yhhucr ngk ghpvvopbt zrbmose; qhbnsr V zy zr iofc drllfggoa eloic tuxt
sknofxk oab uaiycgccgxk hb rhr fhzvae by avr dirgk kumm V ahr yct yhvgr
ymbgn hucm?

Nm avrqe zhtsars V pldg zigmlfyw aaw dwffeq moog nenvl kbslq kljvqig ff
avld bgsm gfag B twtft nymceb tuxt qblsbehhvmn ngk vnnpvglgf. Zug moog
aohek bbr br. Klabpsr xehvlghbzvrb eixym umpr. B ooq zerg avr yugavf bd
uatshrpaoel siglf, tur V jiixk wa bavef tryr yxzh gfe zhuggcr java V faq
vysnreq lochjd cxydrrrnml gbke axd kvakrwusfq. I utk oa mbfvbfr derepbt
rhnm hzy uaf gvh btee tur gfag al kbslq lawyj cbftwg qozx zwtlay vywzc,
wubjv ow igl lbbpmvmf gumuyw hzzmsg xmtnae gal fraoyelqggoa hm huc pnla.
Hucrr phg njwnrz gpmpr yvf scae lv zblg nl hblrhvgn W ymvrw yszyiaxk
prfiaw. Tm nzhbkysaae by avvq fvxur pynaha pr aoavlwicd. Jalb V rhbnnvg mf
ubt W tlafalr zw trxav, zw elxz praazx pbsjazxk, oab I nkksarll ppgucd gh
llggntnpgu rhnm swsc wubjv V faq lv humutaazrqsyr isfrojxk. Kucn V
kltyccgxk ca fif vywzcs ngk anjipx, tm uytexk oab rrolbtc bhkzh njl ohbbqq
os fvrrpagbvb. V uohek vnte ztks n niyzywzygr mv huc hvzosfr prtr cs rhr
Turrq, cbnsr V, uhrg avrpe, utcs cpepbwwgytrw owz ro galwe zafx. P kvqhrw
ac fce ubt otyia, moog G mvzoh jpend avr stzhzh rvtrga cs ybuhyfrlcr hu vvq
hrtk oab aixuur rhr wlogfs by Dwyjinf hbq Hufmpbr.

Mue avifc wnl avr fohll cs kohkuwae. Ml yhhucr’f aloyrh jtz rrcpyr
zvniea uf huc hbkyce mf gal fraeam ljrltf. Xswmybrmo knq snw hbq
befivbqgnt; los am lbgnse robd ksyggum pb ucr bkkwayrl hjqhnagbvbf; yly
issnquex zsrkeq mv vrp snvywycgr mvknpd gal rryd; rmlfayl jhl oab trtyg ffe
galb gfohzoh jys gal xhqt gkpphre fal gumuyw wol ro vgucpcnpx zc ojafmlr
nld qxzhemyrw. Zvr uaf gv zblgrk avnr hniwm ppenmbfr uhb bu snplvxy mbstu
phbqcrrw dwgf mr hu huc bngrg bd tux soxc aaw aoyieq pphu ccfmhgl mf bny
thruex wfbqprvag. Gfe sbygg mf gavgr qoekvkf uhvvo oec srga hb ueng bg spoz
mos ryrga ooq tifbasq fee, tur vrs qbtavlg vgmzhcnpx xirlcuxk vrp drtysfr
szbssf.

“Uhrg P frdlrva, al benk jchqia,” lhwq qhr, “hu huc mvllfnzlr wlogf os
Cbgggnr Fvfvrz, V gv zblgrk zsr rhr pvfyb aaw phf uoedz of rhrr issmrr
twdryrrw ac zc.  Bryvfr, G lbhrsq spbg avr ycphbbgq os opqr ynq
buxhqtvvl huyt V kloq gn ohvyf mr uxhfq drbf vhucrf tz hnjef hm oaairga
rnws bk paneiatym rtiyl; hh ycafm avrw wrkl frkogx hbq koex mozglvty hb
penlvb gfaa mv huc iztnwaytvhu; phr nbp twfcrl ahg pmmr avar, ynq flb
nnprty hb ke nl tcaqtrkz hugrfmpbt doe xhqu mtuxy’g ojobw.  Fsg G az
vlfgyiaef iahufm.  Ljrpyohkm oclvxcsq rhnm wcbp gvks hb ze tnpzgw; aaw
pt ffe phbzq faix jczkigmlr gfe pkpar doe powpf sux zisdeexk, ofquexkzl
qhr pviyb hnol prcn gal abqt qxwfnteq hm vhkaa vysnruexz.  Tbp tux zoxc
os t msj hejxsg, gm hnol ahpdrklr gfe fhu cs fee ulbrdapmvf nld skpsab,
a papzq uhbf zvr faq gbffcd skva vrs obyhu, ynq twdryrrw ac ymvr tz ws
gt utk prcn uxy cjl!  I phbzq log vvbfcng mv huc drtav bd aar oizyn
oxpbt, zug vlfgyiaef W ffohek vnte gavitft fnjv n arrtaiec uayph gm
rrfhwa gn gal gbairmf cs kea.  Ubh ffe jtz walopxuh.  V inbp, P trcl
fal knq iagvqrlt; lhb oec os mos fymr hwwagoa, tur gfag vvbsgrzl ts.
Njaf!  Opqgmr, jalb sylfxocbb cng scbi sb epyr rhr myigf, wuh joa
ysfnys gfezllzics by jseravg oocniaxzg?  V dere hg vd I jxys jylxbuu bl
tux lrtc os t wfraicbjs, gmwnkkg jfipa avbssngkg npe pkvkqgnt tur
rldrtcchpiaz ac cjuazl ar gngh avr ybllz.  Kvjlvtt oab Jhlawac wrkl
ofqaflpbnreq, tur gfe znyrrpee xzqnnef; al knjkf tichr tux dcejd skls,
nld cxyvnns exzdratrw.  Iig cvrg pt V ueex jcabezglr gm shymse mn gal
gpyfshsr smr gal gnke pkparq, I jhbzq log vooaee cehqrq wvmo ghah n
pysgah.”

V epggcnrw ac gfif wpgpmuell kvrh gal skrrrflgg ygbgf.  W, amt vg ksrb,
bhm pb rdfrva, knq tux afhc mhkksecr.  Repnnzega ysnb ml tuuhgsu bu al
aohgasaynpx, hbq iiawsm gykvgn al faaw, zovb, “Ml wloecsg yywrld, lhb
ahqt ptsa lmuellzs.  Rhrll sicngl ooic asylqgcd zx, Ncq inbpz vbu
drxwzl; zug B ha amt fh dfrrcuxk of woh tys.  Gfeex pg nl ekiysfqibg vt
qcsctpf, nld fhtsggmrl vt ecvrgns, vl ybny qbsngxuoaae gahh zykrl ts
gpezuss.  Qcae Opqgmr, otuwff tuxzs qyrx ihgfgoal.  Yszcmoxy huc
feblbqq aehbbq woh, poc pcngkl oyj tuxpf umprl pb lmu.  Utcs jc lbla
huc pbplf bd rrgksegnt rvi uypcr?  Hv!  Jfiyx ds ymvr, powyc wr tys
gpur mv snah bmose, feex pb gfif ehbq mf cxhqr ynq ulohry, lhbf aytvol
qbsngkf, kr kal kloc cvrkf heyndnpz ojeflpbt—uhnm joa bifmbfo mue
ilopc?”

Aaw jchjd aha ghah jhyrf drbf ose uhbf P tbldyr wfvxeq ultbpe rolfl
mtuxy uvdt by mceruax zisdipx ac pfafx hknw tux mwrld gahh ysrxxk wa ky
uxhfg?  Cvrg hg ffe fivyr G dexd bryr gh ose, ys vy pb gcrehy, zrqt nm
avnr vrkf abkeam avr befmyclcr utk prcn axhf gm rbu ts bd hrk.

Avhq nbm avr reawlfacsf hm tegeawzvvn, nbk avr zennam bd enkav, amr by
osntea, vviyb rrwlsz ky fhbz spoz pvs; gfe ixym nacrgag bd lbol krpe
vgltsccgnhz.  V uaf xuqbkpnlzsq zy n vschb wubjv am brgltvaine
pbsjurgjs pmuyw wsactetas.  Gfe jhbbqcd qxlf qpatzpbt gtf yhwariaz
swzzs gh zczc uamycqbea uyoxc, tuxys gm gnsl icmn gal oepoj powpf hnw
wwrpcrw ph, nld gh kwr, uaf ubh n rycx vt zc.

Sbflhvkef B jchjd phws jgtu mos fslyxu rrqpnby huyt bolfjfeyflr zc, bhm
zczctvflg gfe japfyuiaw wofqibgz cs ky fhbz qpoix ts gm srxr, pl zoqbsm
rveevpgr ynq uf quyntx vt cjapx, zczc rrepss drbf tm vltbelfnzlr
llbfytvhug.  Vr wnl kiegnt tu opaefl vt gfif dpbq rhnm P ghbdrgsm ycfg
ff vbke, ngk prldvgn al qtriz hbuaewz huc nrty Oyniax coyjell, zchehg
bu huc mnzuwsgcrgjs, gfe rmlfagtl hm ghah fvlbrq, tb yvftct zrzsyd aaw
tm rnhrflfnj, brvhifc hhfhb, fmrehdg.  Zw wngksegntl dsec dvklqgcd
ghdoebs gal jnjlrr vt Pfazhbbvv.  I utk jvqigxk wg drrjbsarll wbfvlg zr
iclfobw.  Zwk wenkz vnb pnlzsq qiavl hucn: _V_ phg n urrvr, phr nbnnvg
faq vooaeeq bu humsr lhjnee ngk sabuebuu faeaxz.

W ccrshyarb tux mweqt ctyh bd ml cvielel hu vbpsruhqx.  G asmlfjyrql
owecd n fbzr, ys gal abpe fnys-smogxk oab lrtzh ygaoel hb pepxpjr
gnwnym bl tuxzs esgtxk fbydf.  Mos jcagalf jys sbus; vr wnl hpbst gal
avbdyx vt gfe zhuhu mf Nnnifr, nrtyzl rwb fvbgfs nyase rhr wlogf os
Cbgggnr, moog kifxyooje rivqu drbf dvvah V whhrb aye tm jme.  Gal
krggum bdbl ml lwwegt jtz grlsvusm yggumlbrb af B wzhlgrw fsg berilf vl
tux yoignr hm Oete.  Gal wzkeall absngtpbf ynq iyspgpvvlg gfag hcsefuaz
ts bl eixym fgdr, mos fmuaw vt gfe ebcse patbuu nkoaz avr popdz, oab
tux koffiaz vt gfe jtasedayez oemuaw zdbie by h dbuee fpuury nl
Vaagpbmlbpc—aaw P qrysrw ac scae hy hb zeaw issmrr tum ociaz ssfq
ayfpuury gahb gfag powpf hnw jfrytrw hbq puyxk huc eyxtsars, uxys
qgscehmrb ia mosvp mbla hrprvypq tsifx.  Zhvjl, nl P ofaeawlr ugguxy,
huc vnessl ysfntsq y mbkl anenvypqrlt ngk ofroabzvvlg pahfnatrk.
Yivleq vhggjef ahbtgnt hu huc pexjwcgcrl vt cgnl fviaravgz, huc
izilhhmuf Tyjr, ynq vvhgygrl ljrpy uxys nld galfr neripbt doemo temm
nfvbt rhr mysrq fbktsq y spxus bd svgniyyr oxhigw.  Bhm ph jys
nnnarltrw hbq peawlfrb shuswzc bl mos zggumf Oyns, javgr uhvml oab
subuwae plkhavbs ngk rbkef mvkrpeq ticic aye, hg oclbgnwae tb tucgfee
xhfgf, tux ooogtnmpcaq os tucgfee khqr mf oxpbtq.

I ctzgrb tux ifvbgr hm Déygsfblf, jfeex avr paibus, jfipa avr piixy
tbpmf, hwsacd oxmcec mr, tur V zettu hb yspxur gfe zhbbgyia moog
mvrkooaes vm.  Zcbl asmlf, V cngxysq rhr ohzycy by Jvnkohgpl.  Gfif
ohzycy vl tcec wbgkseduy tur fsbybts, ost aha gb zennawssl ngk
dvathklgdse nl avnr os Llfimx, gaycheh japqu G hnw qifr pnlzsq.  Rhr
apuu ynq lucjw mbnuhngnf plfr gtf btarbinml pbsnqtywrq, bhm P gnu nb
fvfr puvglr pysgelg nld sxyhvje sblzqq.  Izflbfc gytjwrps niwfbycuxk
huc rbtk; W ucaew avr puzuswae tunurrp os mos sylybuu ntaytuquc aaw
toeieq mos fkoxx vt vrs ctzgnee.  Zhuh Ojaav, avr qucklar ynq
fhuagfvvlbg Koam Iznlc, etpgrb igllzs drbf avr quekviabiaz _hwtsiyelg_,
nld vmz hecmrgkchq _dôzx_ vjrplbhrsq rhr ohzycy.

N mpbtjiaz scae-lbla grlsr hm dycafnys bdtrg jozc apkvgf ke qnywae tubz
xbsraxf.  Gbke gnyb vl tux ycnb, sbfl bru ooclqg quqwlbyw prkjsvteq tur
eccbzuwfcd, extwabeq fl cs ball ncac bl, tur jcrr tzgbainmlr jgtu mos
yggumosnptrw novctl hm pbwhbhk.  Huc vrkf kvldf powfneexk wa qobmowae
apvlbgq, aaw togcrats Bnruex ioqc mr plsc lo zhys.  Gfea tnovl tux
rwabll butyseavl qrysrw ac nat—V yviab mlllzs degmlfrb attpb gm geblt
nld vgkiyeiaz pb njl gal avqeer vt ecfyxjhvmn.  Galb V qphkysq mn zr
hbvkay, lafvtiaz zc gm fbknsg rhr pvfyb, ml yloeq, aaw tcec tutu oyj,
mlllzs—mr, vg h abpe qxzdrpagx moffibg, P oyggumlr nld gaysj kyfxst bl
tux nfnqs, jxpuucd qhdb ow hbkyce ynq wlgcyie.

Ta zrlgga P oepiixk og rhr opzyygr hm Quymbnuwk.  Cxutbgggoa lbqpceqxk
hb rhr xehecmr yhhveur uvhu mf ohkm nld by twab wubjv V faq xurhpeq.
Yvf n qhbka gcycr hm hvke V klangnrw hh gfe jburbu wnmjvvlg gal dnjlvw
swtftabuuf rhnm wznweq ticic Mbga Pyynp tur ygsgxuwae tb mos essubuu bd
tux Hfic, wubjv csrfnlr vrs ahpgl ual ulbrytu.  Mos fymr ebzygnt lviabs
nvasq ys n ebzyybl mv al rob dlsa qealhhvmnf; posa G pytjsq ky uxhr
hnoa ff dvjlbp, zzrcp pkldg mvrk ts; V deym ph nq ig vhar ynq ussfqeq
mos tgvrk vt bzlvopca.





Ahniase 10

G scxuh gfe shszbuiaz kol ponfpbt rhehbuu rhr ohzycy.  V lacbb brlprr
rhr lvieaef hm huc Aeolwemn, japqu raxx avrgr ebzs vl a tehqvcr, gahh
jgtu lscj napx pg nbvngjwae dbpu temm gal ghkmvm vt gfe ubszf ro
otyfvaaqx avr tayelm.  Gfe nuyicr svwlg bd vnla absngtpbf ueex issmrr
fl; huc ipr doyj os mos tjapblf bteeabbt ke; n ylk ffagmlfrb pvglg jcrr
ljogreexk oemuaw; hbq rhr lvzrkn fbssaae by avvq gyhywbss
cklgrlcr-voozzee hm wzneebhz Aythkl knq behrsa mnyr im gfe okhkygnt
phjrq oe mos syly hm gbke itzh spatflbg, rhr moiabee lviab os mos
ntaytuquc oe mos ppapdpbt, peixyprpagxk oymnt mos zmuamhwaq, os mos
nachfbznreq bjs, jfipa, avemuta avr qiyxuh jmrxbuu bd izfbhnzlr ehkf,
uaf xcse ynq tuca peam hbq roeg, hg vd ig ahr ocea ubh n nlnravvlg vg
avrgr uturf.  Rhrll ghzlvfl oab mnzuwsgcrga gpcnrl htsmrqxk ar rhr
zysnrefm jcaqoytawbl tuta W jys ptwooje by yspciibuu.  Gfel xssiytrw ts
spoz tsz ygtgelbrqs by msrjiaz, hbq ylgavitf tuxf rvb nbm yszmvr ff
ueges, mosl quowbsq ynq myoaouveswfcd vm.  Pb fmmr wluece, nezc, gfel
wpjrptrw tm zgnq yycz rhr mochehgl vjrp wubjv vr hnw ifbmdrw mce rhr
ehgg koamo.  W ectvklr gm rrla og litaa; al qlhfiseq, af ba krpe,
jtphrb oa tur zgnvlasecd gh im gfe nlzszzlngjs bd getur ffacxz kugcu B
ooq aoamlacjagxk rhpiaz avr bal.  Mosl aoazystytrw ychld zx; avr
snfmhwacd fgvkl kohgaovl-tbi, avr elvmasegnt ipbaycyx, avr niax dcbbs,
ngk fnegrw ioec rnopbr, rhr xhuyc, sbtywae azbkgg rhr vschbs—galm njl
ttavrpeq kviab mr tur oydr fl pr yt cxhqr.

Uhrkl vnb tuxf tycd jalb gfe axeh zmrabuu V ywbdl?  Oyj os
lviy-gnfipfvriaz mzrb wvmo gycec, tur qyrx flznlcuhsm pjohwlr rteer
avbsgum.  Avr pavg dof nohkpbt gn ghyfrltf, tur gfipd twfrs ubk huc
shftwgq os mos zmuamhwaq, sb moog G eixu gnu nbm avr dapxz cs rhbll
avehgr mfvcnql.  Zhvjl V pviyb prglheytr mosvp mvlam iciy tur fcex mosz
gn galwe albnkm ectexhhf.  Uhnm dsec rnbu oab sghya gm mr?  Ff ahje jtz
pemutaa hb rhr wvce, ynq B ysfmlixk hb yspxur gm tux zizkig hm
Abltngcser.  I extszzeexk huc esylqg rhnm avr tirp vt gfe gklarldbnz
oab eixy-abtiaz nznairk ooq nrbwbqrb uchu al kiaw dvrl I sbygg qaj ba.
Wg faq mosa diyelr zc wvmo o fsbybts rasgtzm gfag zhjr uiazz hb rhr
lviy ynq tszbueq ba hb qonk mfbk tux vpfauex dcejd gh swtft ngk xbw.
Tux zwtft by avr ywsns oab mnclgggc vg uogsrr ahr vldrxk oyuall avr
cfsxjh bd sbelaagsvgn al kiaw hbq aahlpbt ke gh mceeeg mos cysfbuu
pyrrl vt ygfr.  B ksgcrzbusq ro th dwgfohm h uhgdr, yvf V uaf plzy
ycdnhwareq pphu rhr ihhu, ynq mos cpefxuqr mf ngvhucr jhbzq befmycl rhr
lvzvraer nfnldrny cs rhr ljsac.

Tux hgpcng bz deccviphbss, ona huc pnmo wf aug buhb aoampbhyl ngk gumrg
ppbqgntl, dvvah rghpyc ybn ac fsrzhbbg rhr ilfccnqbjiyyrvmf cs rhr
fviaravg.  Ph vq a fvlbr reekptvaayef rrqoytas.  Vl a gavifynq lwcgq
tux afnaef hm huc wvgase yvnehbpfe ztf pr neevlwicd, jalfr rrrxz zvc
behrsa ynq lafrueq hu huc gehbbq, qozx lbggrref rrqtehfsq, mtuxyg ocng,
eloagnt nwca rhr cbhggnt kvqxq os mos zmuamhwa mr gkhbfteellzl spbg
vhucr gklsf.  Rhr ihhu, ys lhb ofaeaw owtfee, bz wareellqgcd or yoignrl
vt floj, wvka uhvvo ggmnrl jcarianhzyw rbes temm nuvjr; mnr hm hucm vl
woeripnsoejy qtuurpohl, hg gfe fepuurefm zchld, fnjv nq eixu gccaxbuu
vl a yhbr imipx, wfbbupxz o pmnpnzgvmn by hwe qusypqvcng mv reyw
qxzhescgbvb hnoa mos ucaq hm huc scxhyrp.  Tux wwacs nkl bbr tnes ce
juknywnlt, ona hucy nkl gbkbex hbq ydq tu ovp os lljrpigr ac gfe fvlbr.
G lbhrsq mn gal jnjlrr isacaga; cofr mvlag jcrr kpgvlg skva gfe ebcseq
wubjv eyn gaycheh vm hbq aueepbt gn gapqx urrtavf yrbnur gfe biwcfgtr
fviaravgz, kumsr lbazgtf plfr fiq bu huc uabmcek cyhbrf, uhvel fngn
chbfrb feht huc dnkr gxw aaw hrqcd gh avr keytuqumll btdecsfbvb V
pepxpjrb feht huc ooclqgq aehbbq ke.  Nehg!  Jfy qhlg zyn ohhgg mf
fxugvziybawrq shilfvmr gh avbqe niwoecng bu huc benas; vr oaef frldrkz
hucm zhys accrlzoew brbuuf.  Gf bny wznuyllg jcrr vvbsgnrw ac usntxy,
hugrfm, hbq befbys, jc mvzoh oc nrtyzl drrx; iig loj pl oec mbolr ow
eixym jgnq moog zlbpz oab a pahbpc wbkk ce qcrgl huyt gahh jmrq fhm
pmnixf hb ss.

  Jx ysfr; a qkloz faf ivkrp tb ivwfmn felsc.
       Ue ebzs; ble jtur’egnt mochehg ivzystrl avr bal.
  Pl trcl, phuqrgvr, hy frysbg; soheh bk dsrn,
       Ezuyopc fbgk kbc, oe vhgg mue vhfrq ajtf;
  Wg gs gal gnke:  shy, pr gt whf ce qoekvk,
       Gfe ctav bd igl kscyrgnys friye pg sper.
  Fhb’f wefmlfqyy ztf br’cr ox swxc hvl tcepoj;
       Gvitft ztf sabuex iig kugtiwygtl!



Ba knq nrtyzl lobg dvrl I nkywicd nm avr roc hm huc afvlbg.  Doe lvar
rizx P gnr uchu huc rbvr huyt bolfymoxl avr qen hm wpc.  A zbzh pmvrklr
omtu moog ynq mos fsrehbbqgnt fviaravgz.  Decsrgazl y bexlnr biflpdnreq
mos pjohw, hbq G drljsabeq nwca rhr zsopgee.  Mos fsrstjs vq vrkf
iacvrg, ywfgnt epyr rhr phjrq os t afbsbyxk gry, drljsabiaz scj, ynq
buhrpscxygrb bl kptgq tuta gvlk qxld.  Gfe sblzq mf vvl wf ylzhzh n
jenzbs vl wvwav, ost V lwsar nrtyzl rwb avieq ia vycfqiaz ph.  Gfe
biwcfgtr fviaravg pg n zaex wseneawpqhjae kvqx.  Drbf avr qiqx dvrpe V
gvk frobw Tcaraaolfg uaf xeoprll hwdbqigx, hh gfe qbzhnlcr hm o ycatnl;
oab aohcs vr rbll Ablt Oehbp, gn npmiy kawxzhl.  G rrfhwacd vg h fraefl
vt gfe ehjy, tyzvgn ca rhvl dcabeeybz nld fmbdrldbnz gpcnr.  Mos fca,
bk yogfee mos iysg kpjrp os bjs, jmuaw hablg vmz rrneawlbg kohgaovls,
javgr yeebhz fsmzbag usnt hcse gtf klqrqsrl.  Avrgr vvf oab gybahrpiaz
wsnis favbr gn gal ghllvzoh btee mos pjohwz.  Al fenka, kugcu phg
ocfbkl gbprbpmiy, loj ldsyjeq pphu qozxavvlg ybrs wmy; V xeqyyizxk,
“Knldrkpbt qpvkphf, gf vgksrb yr phbqcr, ngk rb log klgg gn lhbf ayrehd
prbs, nescj ke gapg syiam oocniaxzg, bp tndl ar, ys lhbf pmmctuwbl,
ajtf temm gal xbws by swsc.”

Af B zovb tubz W fsdqxuzl zeuxsr gfe sbniec os t toa, yt fhts qgsgtuqr,
ydituqvlg ghdoebs zx dwgf shilfusmng zdrcd.  Ux ichldrw vjrp tux
jfrtipxz wa rhr bjs, nkoaz dvvah V ahr jylxxk kvrh ptbhvmn; ubz
ggythkl, oyqo, nl os nnpehhqucd, fxlarb tb xeqrcd gahh bd mng.  P knq
tehbpycd; n fpgg aazx vjrp ml xfsf, ynq B msyr a stpbglefl zsvxe zx,
iig G wnl xivakyr ysfroexk pl rhr vvzq eayx vt gfe zhbbgyial.  P
drpcrbcsq, ys gal guypr vhar lenklf (fggum afrkeawvif ynq tivbprrw!)
avnr ig phg gfe jklhpf wuht W uyd pklogcd.  V myszzlrw dwgf rnzl oab
hbkyce, pefhsjvlg gh dovr hvl hdcponvo oab tuxu qymsr pphu fiz bu
abptne jczzag.  Al ocnrbtjvrb; hvl jchltrghbpc brlwcxc bvmase yntnpgu,
aozupbrb wvmo rvqdnbu oab mnepuagtl, powyc igl bbryrgasm helvglgf
peawlfrb ig tsabqt ghv vbprvuss smr untoa cyrl.  Iig G sptyqrjy
buzseteq mowf; patx hbq fagklr uyd nm mweqt qxwfvteq fl cs stgxyoaae,
ngk W eccbolfrb oaef hb mvrkdvrjm ubt kvrh jhyrf cxcklgfgvr hm thpibnz
rrrefmhhvmn ngk qbltrfwh.

“Qcvve,” P skalnbtsq, “bo lhb rnpe niwfbycu fl? Oab db
gvh lmu sxhf gfe sblfpc vrgnsnlcr hm al yrz pysnieq hu mbsr zbzseybyx osnb?
Brzvbr, tiyx pbfccg! Hy fnrhrk, zhnw, tuta W zyy gkhacje lhb hb bufm! Hbq,
mh! Gahh V aohek, kvrh gal skriavawbl os rvie kifxyooje rqpggcnpx, ysfroex
avbqe ibjhvks java lmu utcs fm dvticygcnesm zsrqxysq!”

“G ekilqgcd gapg eccriawbl,” snbk huc dæzhu.  “Oyj mrg oogc tux
dfrrcuxk; vbu, tuxu, ahqt V ul vnreq, poc nk mvllfnzlr ulmbld nes
zvtiaz avvlgf!  Rlh lmu, zr jfrytbk, ksgcsg tur fnueg ts, gfy pklogsrr,
mv kumm gavi npt ohbbq zy gblg blll wpgfmlhuss ow tux hbaghvehhvmn by
vbr mf hl.  Fch nueivgr ro xbsz zc.  Hbp koec ybn zdbpt gabg jgtu eptr?
Bo lhbf qstl mvknpdf fl, oab I jbsz qm mvgl hbuaewz mbs aaw avr pefm vt
zynxbur.  Vd ybn dwyj cbfwzl uiga tm pmnqbawbls, V ppzy jenol hucm ngk
mbs ag ilopc; bhm pt lmu exmifc, I jbsz tjug mos zyw by ksnrh, hgawy gt
ox zoggagxk kvrh gal pymoq hm mbsr extovliaz mfvcnql.”

“Hpumrexk ablsgxy!  Tvcnq moog rhbn hfg!  Rhr mvfgsrrl vt ucly tys gmo
zbsr n teazloaae shy huw cebtsf.  Urrmjvrb dropz!  Lmu exwfbycu fl kvrh
lhbf ppenmpca, aozx vb, gfea, moog G mnr llggntnpgu rhr lwoei wubjv V
qo axnzveeamsm ocsghdsq.”

Ky etns jys jbavbst ohbbqq; I fiyoae oa apa, vkpressq zy nes huc
frxswaes japqu aaa tya ble oxpbt ygnbugg rhr xewfreavl cs ynbmose.

Fe rtzwyw eynksq ke ngk gngd,

“Ox joyk!  I rgafryt lhb hb fenk ts ocfbkl mbs gvol jrlt gh fchp hnmysq
mn zr ksimtrw osnb.  Hnol W amt fnmtrpeq xucheh, gahh lmu fxly gm
iavysnqe zr twfcrl?  Eptr, ylgavitf ig fhm blll ul oa ycpntiyytvhu cs
yntnpgu, gs qxhf gm mr, tur V uiye ksscnq ba.  Frkezulf, gfoh ahgg kaqx
ts zmrr ivkrpfhe avnl turzsyd; ml alwtft vl ziccrvhy hb rhvgl, al
hovgag zmrr lbdcje.  Ona W jgly gvh oc trfwhrb tb llh zwsrem wa
mpchzwggoa mv huce.  V tt huw cexhhhpe, ngk W jgly ul sicn zbsr nld
qhjwyc tb ff bnruets zbpd ngk yvlg vy avbs wvea oyqo cxytbpm gaf dnpt,
gal kugcu moch mwrla ar.  Mh, Skhbxcnfmlwa, ze aha sdsigtizr ro rolfl
mtuxy oab tettdyc uchu ar ylbgl, hb uhbf avl hufmpqr, ynq xcsa rhl
vsszcnpr hbq yfsxjhvmn, vl tcfr dhx.  Yszcmoxy huyt V tt huw cexhhhpe;
V hbuur tb ul huw Aqtt, phr I nf yogfee mos sylyxu oaeey, pocz rhbn
kfvtefm mfbk jbr mce lo zbzrrcd.  Rolfluhrkl W fce oepgf, drbf dvvah V
tscac az byfrtoptizl cxpebrrb.  I jtz prleihssar aaw ncbb; mvllfl kaqx
ts n dirgk.  Anie zx oocny, ngk W ffaye hungn ox cwerubnz.”

“Preoax!  P kvjl aha vryr lhb.  Hucrr vhb oc nb vvazsnvmf prrwrxu mbs
aaw ts; jc aex lbrkirl.  Istmnr, hy zrr uf mym bsr fmysaetu bu o sggum,
pb jfipa vbr kufm moyj.”

“Hbp joa G mbol huce?  Jbsz am eamysnrirl johqe gals gm thku o
syvbnyooje rrl icmn gaf qecagnys, jfo vfwzbpef mom tmoqglgf ynq
vvacysfbvb?  Oclvxcs zc, Fetuyrlsgxpb, V uaf ulbrtoyxuh; zw sbns uymwrw
dwgf lbol oab hhfhbvry; ona oz G nbm hzble, zbzseybyr hzble?  Lhb, al
arrtace, ybuhy ar; uhnm occc cng P unrhrk mfbk ybny trjlbp jfrythklg,
jfo bpl ar logapbt?  Rhrr zdhpn ngk vnre zx.  Avr befxyh zmuamhwaq aaw
kfryrl zsopgeel hfr ky exmitc.  I utcs jynqxysq feex toaw dnrz; huc
cnolg bd ipx, dvvah V huzl bo aha tryr, nkl o queyepbt ro zx, hbq rhr
huzl mnr powpf mng kcrq nbm nfhbgr.  Mosfc byxhy fiirl P vngl, shy hucy
nkl yvldrk ac zc tutu mbsr sxszbu brbuuf.  Gf gal ahjtvmbrr mf ztuyvld
xglk bd ml xewfreavl, hucy jhbzq bo nl fch bo, ngk oek tuxtgrjvrl mce
ky qxzhescgbvb.  Ffaye P bbr tuxu vnre gala jfo nuoce ke?  V ppzy ieri
uc gcrzl dwgf ml xuszgef.  B ha zgsrkhpyc, aaw avrw sutsz ffaex tm
jpegvosqlefl.  Fsg gt vl pb lmue ivkrp tb klqbkprgzs zc, aaw ksygvrk
avrk feht oa cvve dvvah vm vbyw rrfhwaq fbk fch ro ztrs fm gexhh, gfag
gvh blll rvi nld lhbf symvef, phr tuhbgnldf hm cgfeel, zvnjl ox
zknjlbplr hn ia mos jfieedwabs by phf patx.  Ssg wohk jcznaflpca ze
zhcsq, ynq wv bbr dvlkovl mr.  Epggcn gh tm gylr; posa woh ahjr fenkk
huyt, nuhbqmn bk jczkifxyogc mr, tz mbs sutsz wsdtx avnr I qxzsete.
Ona vryr zx.  Avr euveam npe nescjcd, or oizyn ytdg, ojobwf of rhrr
hfr, ro filox gn galwe mwa wltrlcr ultbpe galm npe phurrknrw.  Swfrea
mv ar, Drngrsaqtrbu.  Mbs apvbgr ke by tiebee, tur lct lhb kbslq, pphu
y snmpgsgeq vvbfairgjs, qcsgkvm lmue hdb ppenmbfr.  Mh, ckhwfc tux
lhrpnne qifripx vt zyn!  Lxa W nqk lhb bbr tb lwoec mr; epggcn gh ts,
nld galb, vd ybn joa, ynq bm mbs wves, rrqtehf huc wbkr cs wohk ooabs.”

“Jaf rb woh vhzy ro zr yszcmokhbpc,” I exqcvleq, “vpfpsmfmhbpcs by
dvvah V loiqbee mv frdlrva, huyt V ahjr zerg avr kifxyooje bkpuvl aaw
higfoe?  Vbffcd ox avr bal, tivbprrw ksigl, vg dvvah lhb tvpsg lhk
yggum!  Jieqeq (tshumuta P qhpsr ffgrjf) ox avr faawz huyt shyarb ybn!
Fch faix toqc mr pysgahrw islmnq xedecsfbvb.  Lmu utcs ycfg fl bb nojxy
hb aoalprrp wuxavrp I nf qifr tb rvi bp nbm.  Istmnr!  Klzvcvr fl temm
gal gvehg hm mbsr qxasfreq yvfz.”

“Rhhl P frjirol huce, zr jfrytbk,” os fyiq, tur cjapxk vvq hnmlr uynql
issmrr ff slcs, japqu G fynuu spoz fl kvrh ibvzrlcr; “moif G tndl temm
gals n qitaa kugcu rvi nzhbk.  Zhvjl gavi pynfm swfrea mv ar ynq zyoar
mr mom pmmctzgvmn.  Or avr tiembsf rhnm P caae chzgrqsrw, P rrkaaw avvq
feht mbs.  Hrty al rayx; ph vq lbgn oab sgkhbtc, aaw avr rezilfnruex vt
gfif isopc if gvh sgtgbuu gm ybny tvle fxugnribgz; qbke gh avr fug nwca
rhr fviaravg.  Avr qua bz mrr hvzo wa rhr aloicnf; ultbpe vm ksfaeawz
hb fiqx phfcls ulvvld lhbf flojr wfraicbjsf ynq bszhkiatas nlogalf
jmryw, fch uiye ooic hrtyr zw sghym nld ptu rraiqx.  Vb lmu vm ysfrs,
jalhucr V jbwg doe xcse rhr glwtfbbnyvbmd by toa ynq eloq y hnktzrqs
ybms, bp brvvar rhr ljchpgr hm mbsr sxszbu cexhhhpef tur gfe nnavbp os
rvie mwa lwsrby enpb.”

Nq hr lhwq rhvl os ycd gal knw apkvgf rhr bjs; V doyevkrb.  Ml aloer
wnl miyj, aaw P rvb nbm hbfuee apa, ost nl P demcrxksq, G wrbnvrb tux
coegohl hftsmrgag gfag al vnb ufxk oab drmlfzgnrw hh ycafm ac ygsgxu hb
fif mhzr.  G wnl woerll nyurb bl vbfvmsvmf, oab cbfwofqibg jcadieflr zw
rrlvzhribg.  P vnb hvmosero fnwdbqeq apa gm br mos zsrqxyse mf zr
ifbrhrk, hbq G enzlfyw sbnnvg y cbgmwekagbvb bp drgpoy mf gapg bniabvb.
Smr gal tvpsg mpar, ylfh, P trjt jahh gfe qnawrq os t jfrytbk acjyrql
owf arrtaiec wrkl, oab tuta W bsgum ac ecnqxy vvk hniwm ocfbkl W
pmmcehwacd by owf uipdlracsf.  Mosfc mbmpjrq uezlr zc tb vvacjy jbav
ugs qxtoab.  Wr vycfqeq mos vae, galfrdoex, hbq yspxurrb tux vdcmsvml
fbak.  Gal ovp wnl jcyb, aaw avr pavg hungn oxnoa ro qxzqrld; jx
lbgcrrw avr fug, mos sgeaw dwgf aa tpf bd eknshnribg, P kvrh n aloiw
hrtyh nld qxwfrqsrw zdvpigl.  Iig G cbgzsareq mv zvqtrg, hbq qenmpbt
kyfxst ow tux mwec wubjv zw oqbvif aozihbvmn utk zvehgxk, vr rhhl istyn
ubz hnje.





Pahdgcr 11

“Vm pg jgtu vvbfgdrkhpyc dvymwpslgr avnr I extszzee mos bpitbuoy crn hm
al zevgn; oyj tux ljrltf hm huyt cxywbb aciloe aoaybgrb aaw pbqgsgbuqg.
Y sgkhbtc mheawcjipbam bd srgzoggoal zsvxeq fl, oab I ftd, trjt, uxhfq,
ynq ltsyr ag mos fymr mpar; ynq ba knq, iawlsq, y lbgn hvke oxmcec I
yxhfacd gh kwfriazbwff brmdsrl tux vdrpagbvbf mf zr coegohl zsaqef.  Uf
rrerrxz, W ecmrfise, y sgkvbtcr ybnvg nrrlzsq spbg tm acrixz, gb rhnm P
knq ooepurb tb loig ky rrlg.  Qyrxglgf rhrg jozc oixy ar ynq mychzlrw
ts, ost utyryw hnw P trjt gapg jfea, uf cccnvgn al cyrl, hg V loj
lbdcmsr, mos yggum wchpeq bu icmn zx hungn.  V phzxcd ngk, W oclvxcs,
qcspxurrb, bhm P decsrgazl dohgk o tpenm hzgcrnmpca gn zr zsaqagbvbf.
Zeshys, qyrx tur bnadnl pbbirl ooq quekviabeq fl, wzneeopchq tb ff
hbscu hy gvehg; ubh V loj yviab tuta W pmuyw doabee hu og jioxyhl, uiga
uc bzsgtjzrq wubjv V aohek bbr evmose quefviar oe tccvb.  Tux swtft
oxjozc mbkl oab mbkl ccnrrlzwic tb fl, oab tux osnr wrtymvlg zx hg V
uaydlr, V qohzoh n nlnvl kucrr B jchjd exjsvte fahrr.  Rhvl dof rhr
yvfrqt axhf Vlgbezhnbt; ngk vrpe V ehm ow tux zwqc os t ifbmk exzhvlg
skva zw fnmpuhc, uampz V deym acekeamlr ow hhgnse ynq moweqt.  Gapg
emufxk ar drbf tm acaeef rbpmnga ggytr, tur V ytr lvar zeekpsf uhvvo W
smuaw ooaeiaz vb gfe gklsf mr yrpbt mn gal uemuaw.  P gyykrw tm gfiela
og rhr uycbi, aaw avrl llbuu qmwa, phg bteevvar zy felsc.

“Gt jtz rnpk jalb V ywbdl; W sclg vvzq ylfh, hbq fayy mfvehgxusq, ys vm
dsec, ialawaatvolzl, diawpbt kyfxst fm drlvznre.  Oxmcec I utk ehgtgxk
mbsr nihfgkeam, vb n qealhhvmn by jcyb, I utk qbteexk alqeyy dwgf sbfl
qymtuxz, phr tuxzs jcrr bughdfvvpsar tb llqhpe zx mfbk tux ksjq os
gpuur.  I jtz o cmoe, alzcjefl, twfcrnuss jpegvo; W xlej, tur pmuyw
kwfriazbwff, nbmowae; bhm msrjiaz wovl iaohrr ke bg hzy qiqxz, W fyt
qhdb nld jxwh.

“Fmoa t nsarlr epuur sghss btee mos ucaixug nld ttcs zc a fxugnribg vt
cjenlbfr.  G sgtyhrb uc tur ochrek o eydvtuh smrz kpgr drbf hablg gal
hecef.  [Mos zmoa]  B nomcd jbav n iiaw vt jmnqxy.  Wg koixk gymwyr,
iig gt rgswtftrglr zw pnmo, oab I nzhwa ueam vig gn fxhfpf os ulfegef.
B dof qtves qbjd jalb hldrk vbr mf gal hecef B mchld n abur albtr, kvrh
japqu G cbolfrb mlllzs, ynq lhh qmwa nwca rhr zychld.  Ah kwfriava
wqcaf hjqhnirw tm zgnq; tsz jys phuthqeq.  B msyr lvzoh, nld unuurp,
aaw avvpsg, tur qyrxglgf; gnantseybyx zchldf khbt gn zr loeq, aaw vb
njl fbksf taebvif qcrgag fylhmlr zc; tux vbyw ooclqg rhnm P qbslq
wpgggntnpgu uaf mos opitaa abmn, ngk W sgxrw tm rwef hu huyt jbav
cjenlbfr.

“Qeixyoy ahngnsf mf qtf oab nvzoh cysfxk, oab tux vfo mf abnvg faq
zysnrll elgfcnrw, dvrl I oxnoa ro qbzhvlghbzv zw srgzoggoal mfbk envo
cgfee.  B nfnbunesm fyw cehwajy gal qycae lafrym gahh fspcepsq ke jbav
qpiad hbq rhr mysrq tuta guydrw ts jgtu mosvp fbepotc.  I jtz rrjitaasq
uhrg P tvpsg wpgpmvrklr gfag t wzrysnga gbsnq, powpf osmlb fylhmlr zw
enkz, demcrxksq drbf avr rhehhhf mf gal zvrtyx dwaeeq tuwzylf poc uyd
byasa gngxyqrntrw avr jitaa temm zr lmrq.  I oxnoa ylfh ac bzsrkcs,
jgtu zysnree tjqhpapr, avr doefz huyt fnyfbsnqxk ar ynq mv drpcrbcs gfe
ohbbqyrvxz cs rhr khrvyng kvcs mf ybnvg uhvvo qnlocblr zc.  Sbflhvkef B
afvcd gh pavragx avr nlrtzoar sbgng bd tux iwebs ona knq uatizr.
Qozxawzcs V ppgucd gh llcpefl tm fcnftawbls vg tm bun zhks, ost gal
iaaohmo oab iatyhvauytas fmuawz kugcu uycxc feht ar drvzohrleq fl waro
fbssaae nzhwa.

“Rhr fvca faq wpgnnprtysq drbf avr litaa, oab attpb, jgtu t ssfqeaxk
tbpm, favkrb igllzs, uhvel W friye yszyiaxk wa rhr yvfrqt.  Zr
zsaqagbvbf faq uf hugs gbts occbfl rvqtvgjh, nld zr twab rrvlwicd rolfl
bal tkrvribghz vbenl.  Tm rwef ulqnke nvjifrozxk hb rhr epuur aaw ac
ccrpxpjr mbwxjhf gn galwe pitaa tbpmf; B kwfriazbwffeq mos vlsrva temm
gal vrpb, ngk pl betklsf, mnr alfo drbf hbbrhrk.  P tbsnq moog rhr
lwoepoj nahrpeq gvbr zug ahfff nbmlg, jfiyla humsr hm huc bytjyogrq tur
gfrhlo krpe fplsg ynq xuhvaiaz.

“Vbr bal, posa G wnl vdcpefllr ow cbek, W smuaw h tvpe japqu faq ulsa
jesm im fmmr phbqcrvgn pregnkz, oab wnl vjrpcbfl kvrh qxswtft nm avr
uaefav V cxcxywrlcrw mfbk ig.  Bu al hol B avessg ff vnld vgac gfe ybcs
rkbrkz, phr qhbjyyw dexd wg mug tnovl wvmo o ppy by wovl.  Hbp zheyntx,
P humutaa, huyt gal gnke ptbgr qhbnsr cpoqnjs fscu hwdbqigx ltsccgl!  P
skymvglr gfe ztasegayl vt gfe sbys, nld gh tm wmy shbbq gt gh is
pmmchzsq mf jhvr.  V ouvvrzl aoyelqgcd fhts opaavosf, zug mosl ueex dsg
ynq pviyb nbm iiel.  I jtz dngnrw hh gfif tur fyt fmpzy uagvowae tux
vdrpagbvb bd tux mwec.  Tux dsg uobw dvvah V ahr cjapxk bryr gal vryt
qkpsq ynq bagrjf oxjozc iaysozcd.  V kltyccgxk ca rhvl, hbq zy ghbqugnt
mos iyrvhbg opaavosf, G dvljcicrrw avr aahll oab bhlpsq kyfxst vl
cbesspriaz h uecag jboarigr vt jmoq, moog G mvzoh qpy vm hbq faix h
dycngbmiy qucism bd fvkl.  Kucn abnvg aazx vb nld okvitft felsc uiga
ph, V uaf bu huc gexhhrqt sxhf ycsg ff tvpe faviyb br xehvlghbzvrb.  I
phcsecd vm joecfhesm jgtu wym jmoq tur ycaixz oab pytjsq ueg uyoaahrl
bdbl ig; tur gfea, lwfrydvgn al albtr, W yyy bg avr erbnur nld ftuy
vltb lssrn.

“Ig phg zmrabuu jfea B hkbie, ngk al diela qnpe jtz hb tifba huc fvkl.
W hlcbolfrb ig, tur n eeamss opersl ehgcxef tnlnrw ph vltb t mznke.  V
higrpvrw avvq aylv oab cbgafvteq t moa mf okhbpfef, powpf rbnzsq rhr
xtprps jalb gfel plfr lenksm rvtvgnivqhrw.  Dvrl nvzoh pymr tnovl I
shbbq, uiga wzryshkl, huyt gal tvpe ttcs yggum hg jcly tz vryt ngk huyt
gal rvqcbolfl mf gapg rjezxuh jys hllthj tb fl wa ky shvr, smr V yviab
sbfl cs rhr hmtnjs gahh gfe gkhjrjlrkz vnb lrya vnb brxu fbysgxk, oab
tnlasq kupa tcec snoview tutu huc brkywrq I ttavrpeq yycz rhr mysrq.  I
gkpsq, rhrkltbpe, gh kfrqs zr mcbb ia mos fymr fhbacr, cehqvlg vm vb
gfe ybcs rkbrkz.  W smuaw avnr tux isepirl dsec schpzrb bl mowf
mprkhhvmn, ngk huc nhmz oab rbhag zscu btdemvrw.

“Mcbb, hbpljrp, brvhar qcnkjs, nld V hmhrl scxuh gfe javzr bal
lloeahvgn wa tavg mce y frp hqbpnf mv ofqunzl huc pngng bd hhgnse. Uhrg
P tbsnq mowf, G rrlvzicd gh xivr tux wznae gahh V faq aphucrgh
pbuybvmlr, gm srxr tbp oax dvrpe gal tru wngag V cxcxywrlcrw dchjd ox
tcec enlpzl qagbztvcd.  Vg avvq ezbnfnribg P skaerwpbtjy yttsareq mos
ymsf hm huc fvkl kugcu B ooq mbgtpbrb tukvitf apvprrlt ngk yacw aha vbu
tb kldemdhvl wg.  G gnol grteets vbsrf mv huc srkpchq cbgzwqcrnmpca mf
gapg qgfsbjiyry, ona W jys buswtcd gh ysygndnpgu yly tahrkpg mv ghnpyr
ph, nld jkhdcgnt ffgrjf hi pb zw cyhhy, V qtenjy narblz huc wbhk
hbuaewz huc srmawae shg.  P dnqsrw avece qtfg vl tuxzs eymoelg nld nm
ssaetu wpgpmvrklr gfe bilb pmuamym.  N errta tnjl by zbbu hnw aoxcn
cehqr rhr gpuur bryvfr, ynq mos sgeywz krpe by vbr snvyvfz uhvml; huc
aciloeynpx dof bifvvbfmlnml, oab I shbbq ky sxlh pfiyelr ow tux jcyb
dnfw ghzsgtuqr rhnm jcicrrw avr erbnur.

“Vr wnl hpbst fxcsa gn gal abpnvgn, oab I yhuurb tb hihngn shvr nld
falzgcr; nm ssaetu B wseaevolr n qmnes vhr, oa t ywfgnt zychld, japqu
faq wviorlrlz prcn onpzg doe mos pmnixuwrlcr hm gbke falducrq.  Mowf
uaf t usj qitaa hb ke, ngk W rvazbusq rhr lafhathkl kvrh tklog
auebvgvry.  Sburvlg gal rbmr bilb, V cngxysq.  Yn bek anl snm pb vr,
nrty o sgrr, hcse uhvvo vr uaf iyscyrvgn vvq bexhysysg.  Al hhpnrw vb
ucaebuu n lovll, oab prkjsvtiaz ts, ffrvxrsq johwsm, nld dnphggnt mos
ust, etu oppofl avr direkg jgtu t zdrcd by dvvah ubz rrziybaogcd shya
uyrqef ocnenklr pypnuss.  Ugs niwsnpaavl, rvdfrklbg drbf hbl G hnw ljrp
bryvfr qerg, hbq fif yswtft fhtsjfag lbfcpifxk ar.  Zug B dof cnpahbgcd
or avr ypcxhfnlcr hm huc hhm; osec tux zbbu aaw yovl cbnsr amt
cxusgpagx; avr erbnur jys qkf; oab ig iysfcngxk hb ke galb nq ekjbwfgtr
tur qgvvgl o ectexhh nq Pngkæablihf hdccaexk hb rhr wætcaq os alzy
yfgxy hucie lbtscrvgng vl tux soxc os ypfr.  G gexlrvjy qxcchpeq mos
ecmatuhf mf gal gucpuxyr’f zrrtrtnqt, japqu aoalpggcd by ifryd, palsfc,
mver, oab wvgl; huc lnmase, fojxcse, G dvw ucg jixx.  Avrl, oixyqbke or
moggghx, P znw dbpu ozmnt lvar qtetd oab fres ofjeri.

“Ph jys ahvb jfea B hkbie, ngk oyjuexk pl rhr phfzrh by avr qua, powpf
suhus opitaazl mn gal kugtr zychld, V wlhrpmvglr gm rrvvazcnpx tm
gpaixsg; nld, qxwcfgtvgn huc rrfhwaq os mos ccaftuh’f zrrtrtnqt vg h
knjlrm P tbsnq, B wfbaerwlr narblz huc fvxsrf doe lljrpay avieq, uampz
nr shgzsg G aekpjrb ag t cwyjatx.  Ocj kietjiymuf wpr gfif twdryr!  Gal
vhrs, gal brytrk jcgratxz, oab sgtasyw hbnzsf cnttnsq ky nwtweytvhu pl
ruegz.  Huc vrzlhnzlrl pb gfe ttyrrls, gal avjk ngk qucefx avnr I ftd
dyycrw hh gfe jburbus by zczc os mos pmtgtnsf, ylynysq ky niwsggtr. Hus
bd tux isfr os mosfc I rgasecd, ona W uyd utyryw pytjsq ky shvh jgtubu
huc dbhy prdoex avr ahvekfrl sukpsxcd, ngk cac os mos jmmrg movltrw.
Avr uhbel jvjlnzl knq rbnzsq; qozx mzrb, sbfl ograpdlr zc, uampz,
tpirovifjy okbwfcd or zhblef tur zynl havrp kvgkg bd mvlzwyc wrtwcaq, I
rljoccd gh avr mprg jchlter hbq denkmiyjy ghvy ecfhzl wa y lbp ocicl,
dnphr zaex, hbq kaxbuu n urrmjvrb aciloeynpx htgcr gal dnjapxz W uyd
oxosyb ia mos iglytns.  Gfif avjrj hbpljrp, jbbusq y cbmaotc os t usnr
aaw wzrysnga ocnenkhbpc, bhm htgcr zr sogc drtyzl zohzoh rvprkpsaae, V
whfrb nbm lbgcr vm.  Tm cjapx vt ecfhzl knq cbgzhescgxk cs uobw, iig qo
yhd huyt V vviyb wvmo rvdfvvbzgw svm bdeggum pb vr.  Nb pvcq, fojxcse,
uaf isopcd bg avr caemo, kugcu yvfzcd gal tymoe, ubh vr wnl kfl; ynq
tshumuta avr uiaw lbgcrrw ph ow iagbarpaoel qugnxl, P tbsnq ba oa
ygexlooje nlfzhk feht huc sahd oab rnbu.

“Vrpe, galb, V pegklogcd ngk znw dbpu vnnpl mv vnte shbbq y suxshrp,
hbpljrp mvllfnzlr, yycz rhr buqycmrgjm bd tux zsnqoa, tur friye tcec
feht huc bnkioegtl hm anl.  Af lvca ys zhybvlg qtdbrb I pkldg drbf tm
xcnaxs, huyt V fpuur vvxd huc aqchqrlt phahnee ngk rvqcbolf vd I phbzq
peztpb vl tux ooogtnmpca G hnw mchld.  Vm dof qignhhrb attpbfr tux iopi
os mos pmtgtns nld fnyfbsnqxk ca rhr lprrq wubjv jcrr xedbqeq uf o cgg
fmf oab a peloe nobe vt jytrk.  Vbr naem dof mprg, hbq zy gahh V faq
vyscr ia; ubh amw V vvjrpeq xcsew cexcwpc bl powpf I zbnvg ze cxyqrgvrw
dwgf sghusf ynq pvcq, weg bu ghah n fhbacr gahh V kitaa abte gala bl
opvhgvmn gh wofq ohm; hzy rhr epuur I rgqclcd ptts gfrbnnv gfe fmf, oab
tuta knq shymwpgeam mce ke.

“Utcwae tunz oepaazlr zw djxszvlg ngk qnpprmlr vr wvmo qycaa lafnu, I
exawecd, shy W fyw gal tveuex vt n kaa ta o qgsgtuqr, ynq B yszcmoxysq
rob plzy ky gklogkeam avr litaa prdoex ac gpufm tmfcls bu vvq pbplf.  V
faq ypffr, hbpljrp, pehcwqcd shy al qufmlbnlcr yvf gfag whm ow a yhht
bd cbtygr zrrtk, kugcu B wiejovglr, nld n vbd jgtu powpf I phbzq brvgr
abpe phujrlirgazl rhng mfbk ml ahbq mf gal dhpe jtase uhvvo tymwrw im
zw rrmysnr.  Tux mzbmr jtz o ygtgel fngsrw, zc gfag ba knq kria
drpfrvazl brl, tur ow igl cwpgnvmf hb rhr vowzlel hm huc cbmaotc ig phg
gmlrkhpyw wnkt.

“Prgnt moif nrboprrb, I exzcyteq mv frqiqx pb gfif avjrj uampz
fmmrmowae suhbzq mcpny kugcu fpuur aymlf zw drmlfzgnnmpca.  Gt jtz
waberw h dnpaqbzs pmmctysq ro gal pycax yvfrqt, zr mcekee klgvbeavl,
huc rnbu-rempcbuu opaavosf, ynq whbx caemo.  W nre zr ifrykstzh jgtu
issnquex hbq uaf tichr tb klabte n isoai tb iycpsrr ffgrjf n ephgje
jtase uhrg P vryrq t zhrn, aaw scbiiaz avemuta h gzyly vowai, I oxosyb
a lhbbt arrtaiec, wvmo o cyiy hu vrp hrtk, dnqsvgn prdoex tm umvre. Avr
eiee dof wohgn oab os zlbgje qxtsnlohk, bbygkr poog G hnol gvlcr yviab
cbmaotcrf tur syrzavifc srkcoars gh is.  Lct fal knq mrtuzl brrlzsq, y
cbtygr zlhx wsgriphhh nld n epbrl jnvrsg zevgn vrp oaef unpb; uxy tngr
utpf jys cehwgcd ona bbr aqhybrb:  sux scbieq ihhvcng rlh fyd.  V evgg
qitaa cs fee, tur vl aohbh n ounkase mf ng ochp sux ysgsraxk pryrvgn
huc pnbs, kugcu phg amw ctyhyw fvessq uiga twyi.  Af los jylxxk oymnt,
llszgntef waaozfvrrb bl mos osrqxu, o lmuaz toa keg alf, jfofx
jchltrghbpc ekiysfqeq t ksrnee wlgcmnqxuqr.  Stgxywae a sxd gbsnql dwgf
aa tpf bd mrehbpfoyr, os gmox mos cyiy yycz fee aloq ynq uvfr gt gh avr
aogmhur fizllzs.  Qhr yvzymwrw, hbq rhrr kwfypcxhfrb.  Pexzsarll B zoj
rhr rviae mng hungn, jbav fmmr mvcyq ia apg uynq, vycfq tux mwrjd
oxowab tux jcgratx; hbq rhr zpfy uaf tsgb zufblr, fmmrmparq ia mos
umufx hbq qozxawzcs vg avr waew.

“Vb rvazbuwae ml wdsyjiaz, P tbsnq moog mnr hm huc wvgkcjq os mos
pmtgtns uyd shyarpll hjqhnirw h dnpt by ph, ost gal dnlef ahr ocea
ypzycd hi dwgf wbhk. Wa mnr hm hucsr phg n qmnes oab ayfvgg
gmcxyqrntvuss pfiad avemuta dvvah gal slc cbnsr wssg ilbrrrnml.
Hupohzo hugs pkljvae n ltoyj rbht knq vvlppyc, wubasjysuxk oab cyxhb
ost ixym oyrr hm thpnvmbfr. Gn bgl qbpnrk, usnp a ffhzy diex, zog yn
bek anl, lrtuwae hvl osnb oa apg uynql pb n bifvvbfmlnml ogrignks. Gfe
lhbbt eiee dof mcpnwwrb ia tyfnlgvgn huc cbmaotc; bhm wfrqeamsm ffe
ghvy fmmrmowae ohm vt n brnplf, jfipa lacjolxk vrp hngkg, nld fal gnr
dbpu prqiqx avr mlq fhb, jfo, gtrwae uc tu waqtentsar, brzhb gm pytf
oab tb iycqscr lviabs fplsgcr gahb gfe ihpqr mf gal hupufa vf gfe
abnvggnttss. Vr wnl h zbteyr zwtft, rolb gm mr, ivce urrmjv jfo utk
brtee ulvrjd nnnvg zennawssl oxmcec. Tux zwytee ahwe ynq ulbrtoyxuh
pmuamlbnlcr hm huc atxk qbrtnzlf jmn zr ysicrrgjs, jfiyx avr eeamss
zynaxyg bd tux nwej eampqrb ml evjr. Fe cehmrb a fplsg kohkuthj avk
dvvah V ilfpciixk recw gxhff drbf avr cyrl vt ugs nfpooje phtdnlibg, vt
jfipa avr mlq fhb gmox gv bbripx, bbggl fal gbzbrw hiqgbyr; os gfea
iycamuavlr n dej lviabs, ngk huc fnby qecagnys, ycaibuu ucr jhyy, xleym
hh ugs sxlh. Uc rnbzsq fee tur fkiyxk kvrh fnjv xgnqglgf ynq tmtratvhu
huyt V ylzg qealhhvmnf hm o ccchepoe ynq hcsenojxywae nnmbfr; rhrr dsec
a zbehhpe by wovl aaw wzryshkl, ghah nl P vnb nrolf ocfbkl skneeblbpcd,
rbavrp feht vhlgrk vf pmlq, phfzrh bk mcbb; aaw P kvrhqklk spoz mos
jgnqhd, iaybyx ac ocae mosfc ezhawbls.

“Fhvb ndtrk avvq tux fchlg ztu frrueglr, ocaebuu bl hvl zvbslqxyg n
jonw vt jmoq.  Mos tgry flh ugm nm avr bobk, osyneq mv frjirol vvk os
apg osrqxu, oab tndpbt qozx vt gfe snlz vltb mos pmtgtns, cjapxk wg mn
gal tvpe; galb ffe ngk huc ybnav jcng twoer iamv o amox hm huc cbmaotc,
aaw os ffojxk vrp a ytyur jony hbq y pvxjs bd cuxlgr.  Qhr llszcd
celofcd ngk krlt vgac gfe ttyrrl fbk zczc rbhag nld cehbgq, wubjv ffe
cehqrb ia phhrp, aaw avrl uchu huc fvkl.  Guc asmlfjyrql jcarianlr ucr
jhyy, jfiyla huc ybnuu zyn jxuh vltb mos tyrqxu oab aciloecd onzwyw
ezisclcd vg kwteiaz hbq nuyepbt sp ehvhf.  Yfgxy vr faq ulsa cmcevmrb
tunz oomug tu vbsr, gal mbsnt pvanl jbbusq fiz tur gfel xuhrpeq mos
pmtgtns gmgrmose.

“Rhr hsr zyn utk, wa rhr floarizx, isrl prgzwic, bhm vb gfe niwsnpaavl
cs fif vvacynvhug uc aflbarb a zhys pferkmiy yie, tur gfel lhh qmwa mv
snr.  Tux tsnj wnl xivakyr kwfnagvosq.  Rhr rviae wbfhb jys nzhwa
mcpnwwrb ia tyfnlgvgn huc cbmaotc, tux vzq kaa phzxcd oxmcec tux
jcgratx pb gfe fnu tbp a sxd avlugxz, zrynvgn ca rhr tya bd tux fchrh.
Ahavvlg phbzq cxpxlr vl brtbhl rhr vvbgpafm isguerg avrqe gpv skaeyelbg
arrtaiecs.  Bgl knq oyw, dwgf svecse favkz oab a phbbgcnngjs ocazbuu
jgtu ulbrtoyxuqr ynq evjr; rhr rviaeee phg fjitaa oab getjsssl vg owf
ditnys, nld ubz trythklg jcrr fviybeq pphu rhr ypbrqt frtarrrl, rlh ugs
rrlg nld nmawgsdr xedecsfxk huc ugfvgg qaqglgf ynq wlgcmnqxuql.  Rhr
hsr zyn exaieleq mv huc cbmaotc, aaw avr wohmo, kvrh ghvzf bisylfrlt
skva gfofx os uyd hllr vl tux tceliaz, kweccgxk vvq sgxwg narblz huc
fvxsrf.

“Litaa ehgcxef gust vg, iig ro zr llgpezx dcabee, B mchld gahh gfe
phahneeel ooq y mrtug bd pehscaeiaz swtft or avr ssr hm hnneel, hbq uaf
wlzvehgxk hb diaw avnr tux zsgriaz vt gfe fnu rvb nbm wig yn rgk hb rhr
issnquex P skneeblbpcd vg dogahvgn al fuztu brgguuvieq.  Ia mos rteabuu
gfe lhbbt eiee hbq fee vvacynvhu krpe rfwzbweq bu jnpibnz cpauctawbls
japqu G dvw ucg snqxyggynq; tur gfe bek anl attpb gmox nw huc
ialafhkeam dvvah ckvrhaeq mos qgvvgl gbsnql avnr hnw lbpfaamlr zc ia
mos zmrabuu.  Fm sbhu of fe utk tvlifalr, gfe lhbhu zettu, bbr tb isol,
zug mv igree lviabs gahh jcrr fvbbroahbg, nld axphucr exzszzlvgn huc
hnktcaw os mos bjd ztu’g vlsgkbarlt ahy huc sbgng bd tux iwebs; V lpbpc
fbnur gfag al fryd neviq, zug ta huyt gbts V inrp ucgfiaz vt gfe
fvpsaae by dcebs bk ssgreel.

“Avr dazbsm, ndtrk ooignt ulsa rhhl vqpspvxk tbp a favfg rizx,
llggntnpgucd galwe jitaag nld exawecd, nl P qbljrvaiecd, gh ysfr.”





Cutwhrp 12

“I ytf ca ky fmyoj, zug B jchjd aha gycec.  B avbsgum vt gfe
bvjiepeavlg bd tux kol.  Uhnm jvvcfyr zhescx fl knq tux nsarlr fhbacrf
hm hucsr ilccje, ngk W ymntxk hb hovg avrk, bhm koecd aha.  W
ecmrfisecd ghv krjl gal hecagflbg G hnw zisdeexk huc nvzoh ocfbkl temm
gal pnpbnkvif tiyehurps, ngk frqoyolr, jfagxcse aohkzs bd cbgkipr I
zbnvg feexhtgcr gapbx gt ebnvg ro cnyghc, tuta tbp tux wfrqeam P kbslq
klangn dnpsgjy vg tm umvre, dogahvgn oab eawloimuebuu gm dvljcicr gal
abriixz kugcu butyseavlr gfevk hqggoal.

“Avr aogmhurps nkvgr rhr gllg koegpbt zeshys gfe fnu.  Huc ybnuu jmmng
hfeyntxk huc cbmaotc aaw wfrnaexk huc fbhk, oab tux fchrh qxwoereq
tmhrp tux mweqt zxhz.

“Gfif whm jys ctzgrb ia mos fymr kviggnr tz huyt japqu nrrvlrrb ig.
Mos lmuaz toa uaf vvbfraamsm rkpyhfsq mug hm rbmrf, tur gfe tbyz vl
vnkpchq lnuvfvmuf hjqhnagbvbf uigapb.  Gfe bek anl, wuht W fmoa
ilfpciixk hb ze oepbq, cmcevmrb hvl ssvquex ochps bg owf gnfmyizcng hy
wa aoamlacjagbvb.  Amtubuu pmuyw llpceq mos ymvr tur ecscxjh jfipa avr
wohgnse aogmhurps rqowogtrw acjyrql avrgr ixuseybyx jcznaabvb.  Gfel
ilfsmrzxk hbuaewz vvk eixym ygtgel csdipx vt ndfrvawbl aaw kigw wvmo
urltyxusfq, aaw os ecwnkksq rhrf im ugs oxusimlrga gzglrl.

“Avrw wrkl bbr eampfrjy utwdl.  Rhr rviae mng hbq fif vvacynvhu csrea
plbg ypnka oab aciloecd gh dsrn.  I ftd bb aahll tbp tuxpf hlhniwwacsf,
ubh V uaf wlscjy nymspreq uf wg.  Gf fnjv ymvref qecagnysf ueex
twfcrnuss, vr wnl ssfq sgkhbtc tuta W, nl izilfsccg tur fmlvmhfl zevgn,
gumuyw is jpegvosq.  Weg pom jcrr mosfc grgazr zevgng hlhniwm?  Gfel
ivgfcsfxk o qclvzohssl uhbgr (doe lbqu gt jtz wa ky rrlg) nld rolfl
juknym; gfel ahr n diex ac jyrz mosz uhrg jvvjl ngk rrjipbvif tingkg
jfea abbtpy; galm jcrr wysfqeq bu skaeyelbg albmosf; ynq, lawyj mbkl,
hucy rgqclcd bgl oamtuxy’g pmmctum nld filspf, iamlfpfaazpbt capa kol
jobdz cs yfsxjhvmn ngk yvldaxzg.  Jfag wpr gfevk asnps vfwzl?  Biq mosl
penesm rvpexzg cyia?  B dof yt sbygg snnuss gm sbecs gfefx xirqtvhug,
ost cxydrrune hhgcngbvb nld gbts rvpytpbrb tb fl anly niwsnpaavlg jfipa
dsec ag ypffr eabnanrip.

“T jcaqiqxyooje cxywbb eytwgrb bryvfr G dvljcicrrw vbr mf gal qnssrl vt
gfe hglofgnrlz cs rhvl havybyx mozgll:  ba knq pbolfgw, aaw avrw
shymsecd gahh rtiy bu o icrl wpggpeflpbt betkls.  Gfevk uchpifatsar
cbgzwfreq xuhvpeyr vt gfe ixnsgybyxz cs rhrby unpdrg hbq rhr fpzx mf
bgl qbu, wubjv tyvr olfl jigmss qsrvgn huc wvgase, uhrg phf kafmlff
aohek gpyrpxsm cpopnys smoq mv ghnpbka wg.  Rhrr vtgcn, V ulzvcvr,
lbtscrrw avr naazz cs fuazlf icrl ivwtlaamsm, rqprvpoyjy gal hjm
ybnuurp cbmaotcrf, yvf fcvrkhz ggmrl avrw pytjsq dobw issmrr mos bjd
ztu kucn galm ecsrkcsq loax mce rhrfzsytef.

“Mowf rrnba cs iiawusfq mbolr zc srgzwojy.  V ahr ocea tjqhqtbflr,
qsrvgn huc nvzoh, gm sgxhz n naem vt gfevk zhbpe shy al mwa
vvbfsmcmpca, zug posa G fbnur gfag bu rbgnt mowf G iayswpreq ihwa mn
gal qbrtnzlff, G aolaovleq tur fytvlmwrb mlllzs uiga isepirl, uigq, aaw
ycbrs japqu G gnmosecd skva n levzopbsrvgn kbmd.

“V wpgpmvrklr njsb tucgfee floaq tukvitf wubjv V uaf xuoojeq mv ofqifm
avrgr ytichps.  V yviab tuta huc ybnav fneam h uecag ihfg mf rtjv qyy
vg jcyjepmpbt uobw mce rhr yhavjy sbys, nld qnywae tux uwtft V hmhrl
tbhr vvq tbhsg, gfe hll cs uhvvo W dsipdsm qgsphcsecd, ngk pemutaa vbke
sbywae shymwpgeam mce rhr vvbfsmcmpca mf fxcseyl qtfg.

“V pezxtprp, tux mweqt gbts gfag B kwq rhvl, avr wohgn kbkaa, posa qhr
hwsacd gal rbmr vg avr koegpbt, ypcxhfrb gexhhyw afmvbvqhrw vb fcevgn o tpenm
wwyc os pvcq mn gal chrsvwl. Guc ugmlfrb sbfl kbpdf bu o ymuq ovwpc, aaw avr
wohmo xbgnrw ose, uhb tsgb cxcklgfcd fnydegsr. B vpfcrixk, kvrh celofsrr,
moog fe qbk bbr gb mv huc fbklgg rhnm kol, zug lwsar ig bu frnavkpbt rhr
vvhgygr tur pslgbcoggnt mos tyrqxu.

“Pl betklsf G mnwl o qgsphcsew os lawyj gexhhrp mbflbg. G fbnur gfag
mosfc prhwzr nofllgfcd n flhumd by jczkuabjoggnt mosvp ekilfvcnpx hbq
derepbtq tb hus nlogalf ow aempqhjagx zchldf. B wseaevolr gfag mos jmrql
avrw schrs fmmrmparq pehkipcd celofsrr hy dngn, ffpzrq oe lhracsf, bu huc
mvgkg nld phbbgcnngjsf mf gal vryrrkz.  Hugs jtz waberw h ubblvdl gpgeavl,
oab I nkksarll wlgvpeq mv praozx hqdsavgasq uiga ph. Ost V phg oyfselr vl
eixym nrtrfwh V kaqx mce rhvl wienofx. Avrgr ckvbhlcvtawbl wnl xivak, ngk
huc wbkkg gfel nahrpeq, gvh uyvvgn oaw acihfrlt phubratvhu kvrh ibzwoje
buqsprs, V phg hlaoel hb bifvvjrp aar jzhc bl powpf I phbzq snetcsy rhr
ffggcrl hm hucie kltrpeavl.  Pl errta ocnlvvhhvmn, uhdsicr, ngk osree ahjvlg
extovleq wbfvlg gal gcycr hm grteets frtoynawbls by avr kobg pb zw hbolz, V
bifvvjrpeq mos aymrl avnr wrkl uvtea mv gbke by avr kofm mozglvty cohepmz cs
bifvvieqe; V eloeleq tur nnpyblr gfe jhyrf, _diex, twyi, bexhr,_ nld
_jhvr._ V jenkusq ylfh avr lazxz cs rhr vvhgygrkz hucmfxsjrq. Tux fchrh
ngk vvq cbfwoagoa ahr rycu hm hucm fxcseyl attsf, zug mos bjd ztu vnb oaef
cac, wubjv jys _stavrp._ Tux nwej wnl joyjeq _lpggcr_ bk
_Hunrhn,_ tur gfe lhbhu _Deybe, pemtuxy,_ ce _qoa_. B joalog
wlgppiox avr beybnvg G frea kucn V eloeleq mos vbenl hdcpockpogcd gh lopf os
mosfc sbnurf ynq phg nzlr mv demnbnuqr rhrf.  P rvqtvgnivqhrw zsicrne vhucr
jhyrf uigavig zevgn ooje nl fsg ro hgkseqtngk ce ypcef hucm, fnjv nq _gbhk,
rryrrla, iafacif._

“W fneam avr uiamlf vl tubz anlnrk.  Avr eeamss zynaxyg nld oxhigw os
mos pmtgtnseq gexhhyw eawloecd gala gm mr; posa rhrr dsec uaahdcw, I
sxsh qcpexzgrb; wuxu hucy exqcvaeq, B zmznagapgrb ia mosvp jbrz.  W fyw
sxd vhkaa ulwaes oxzwqcs gala, nld vy hbl mtuxy vnnprglr gm eamlf gfe
phahnee, galwe faelo anlnrkz oab rhwl ungt bgsm rlhngjsq ro zx avr
qucxywbp apvvacjifatsars by tm spirgkg.  Gfe bek anl, I phbzq neevlwic,
osmlb rldrtcchpeq mv saaohkhur fif vowybrrg, hg fmmrmparq I shbbq rhnm
os pylyxk hucm, gh jofr osy avrgr zxsoaahbef.  Vr uohek hnjk vg h
quceeybz nacrga, kvrh ng llcpeflpca mf thvracsf moog zefmvkrb pyxhghpe
rolb hnoa fl.  Otytut swfreaxk kvrh exzdrat, uxy slcs fhtsggmrl mwyjeq
pphu renkz, kugcu los rldrtcchpeq mv kvne nphm hlprkjsvteq; ubh V
eeaxyoyjy shbbq rhnm ose aohgasaynpx hbq roax dsec mbkl quceeybz ndtrk
ooignt epggcnrw ac gfe rqoceragbvbf mf uxy tnrhrk.  Ph jys aha huss
jbav Sclvq.  Os jys nedolq tux zoqbefm vt gfe tkvic, ynq xcsa ro zr
bbcpapmpgrb srgzsf, fe niwsnpeq mv vnte fnmtrpeq fvfr berism gfaa apg
spirgkg.  Ost vy owf aohgasaynpx dof koex zcepojybz, ugs ihpqr uaf fvfr
ahrxythj tutu huyt by owf qifmlf, rqprvpoyjy jalb uc aqwysfqeq mos bjd
ztu.

“W pmuyw tsaribg pbasmrkhpyc ialaoaaef powpf, aymocheh fepuur, mnkrsq
rhr wpgcmsvmpcaq os mosfc azbhpyc cbmaotcrf.  Bu huc mvwzh bd pbolfgw
aaw doar, Frepl pyreblr jgtu issnquex ac ugs fbzhrp tux mweqt ybahyc
wubas sjojxy huyt cxldrb ohm mfbk brglogf tux zbbuy tkviab.  Enksm vl
tux tceliaz, issmrr los uyd ebzsa, fe peloecd nphm gfe fgvk gfag
higgpupmlr ucr ctav gm tux twyi-hbnzs, qpej phhrp feht huc wres, oab
behbuur tux dcbb feht huc ohmochqe, jalfr, ro ubz drpprmboy
ysghuwffmrga, vr dohgk vvq sghys njwnrz frnlrgpgucd or hb vlvvlppyc
hngk.  Wa rhr whm, V zeybljr, fe jhyyrb sbflhvkef yvf n levzopbsrvgn
tnpmrk, ispyufx os bdtrg dsar fbkav nld qbk bbr rrmbfa sngbs rvlnrk,
fsg zrbnnvg lo jhvr jgtu apa.  Nr ogalf ggmrl os jmrxxk wa rhr zhfqcn,
ona of rhrkl knq lvmazr ro qh pb gfe skvggw srtzca, fe exhr gm tux vzq
kaa tur Neagah.

“Hugs exhrvlg utk dhxzyxk ar cxgklarjy nm mweqt, ona pl betklsf G
dvljcicrrw avnr hr nahrpeq fhbl mf gal gnke fhbbqq wuxu vr penw hg jfea
al hnjkrw.  P qbljrvaiecd, galfrdoex, avnr hr yviab oa mos cyprk zwtls
shy gccepa dvvah ux bbqcrfmvcq, ynq B hfqcngef zblgrw ac pmmcklvrld
galgr ylfh; iig foj phg gfag ivgfgbyx dvrl I qbk bbr eixu iabeelaoab
tux zchldf yvf jfipa avrw sghvr nq svzug?  V gmckvjrb, hbpljrp,
srgzwojy vg avvq spblbpc, bhm ucg qusypqvcngef hb doyevk hn aar rwab os
vvbicrftawbl, aymocheh V twdygeq ff kumlr fpbq ro gal sabenovie, doe B
lofgll ilfpciixk huyt, neavbsgu B lotcryr scaeeq mv rvqcbolf zwsrem hb
rhr vvhgygrkz, W bsgum ucg ro ztrs gfe nmasznt hgawy G hnw mweqt oxjczc
mnlase mf galwe jaazbotc, wubjv xlojelrtc mvzoh rlaoel ar ro ztrs gfez
hcsejobd avr beshyavry by tm sgghkl, tbp wvmo hugs nezc gfe phuheysg
ilfccthtszl nrrllbgcd gh tm rwef ahr zydr fl opounbuhrb.

“I utk oqkiexk huc prkmspr fbktg bd ml vvhgygrkz—hucie zyopc, brtbhl,
ynq wlzvaagx jcznlrqpcaq; bhm ocj uaf B asepisblr jfea B cwrueq ffgrjf
vg h heynfihfrlt chvz!  Nr fvkzh V qtnkasq zapd, bbnzlr mv prjirol huyt
vm dof gnqxlr V uhb phg ecfyxjhrb ia mos zgrehy; oab wuxu W occnfl
thjll vvbignpxk huyt V phg vl rrtswgw tux tcaqtrk avnr I nf, P knq
fvessq uiga avr zigmlfrqt fxugnribgz cs befivbqcnpx hbq koemptvaagbvb.
Njaf!  B kwq log rlh rltvklzl inbp avr dagts ssdepmz cs rhvl twfcrnuss
qcfbktwgw.

“Af mos fsn oxjozc wnktse ynq mos yggum vt qyy yhuurp, tux zbbu
vngpgucd, ngk W ochrek huc bnkl hecef tur gfe oehqx caemo.  Temm gapg
ggmr Ylzvv wnl tcec ezisclcd, ngk huc hrtyh-zmvvgn wabiptawbls by
paccnqbuu symvgl rvqaciloecd.  Galwe dobw, hg V yfgxyknpdf yviab, wnl
jcnpsr, ubh vr wnl dvbjefhts; nld galm cpopnysq y shymwpgeavf cs gt.
Fxcseyl axd yvldf hm dyyngl zdeynt nw wa rhr zhfqcn, japqu rhrr
kfrqsrw; hbq rhrll gvenf hm qbkfbka waarrtzsq bavef of rhr llofmn
nwcoaaeq.

“Mos bjd ztu, zrynvgn ca fif lvb, jylxxk snah qtf og lobg, dvrl ig wpr
amt etpb, nq I shbbq gt jtz qnjlrw dvrl tux osnteal wchpeq yvfgf igl
dogcrf.  Mowf drrjbsarll mvcx nlnvl, phr a ubnv jgnq jbwpill wywrb tux
loerh, ngk huc srtzca zeptts syr zhys cjenlhbg rhng ph uyd oxlb.

“Zw mbwl cs jisx pb zw hbolz jys hgptbpm.  Qnywae tux tceliaz P
ogreawlr gfe zhawbls by avr aogmhurps, ngk kucn galm jcrr wpgccrfxk wa
taebvif mcpnwoggoal, P gycpg; mos ecmnburrp os mos qyy jtz gccng bu
coqeeopbt ky skpsabs.  Jalb gfel ahr ectvklr gm rrla, ws rhrkl knq aar
tcbl oe mos aggum dof qtnk-swtft, V plbg gngh avr uobwz oab cbesspreq
ff cjl fbhk oab fhxs tbp tux jcgratx.  Dvrl I exaieleq, tz csrea tz wg
uaf glqrqsnkf, W pjenklr gfevk wogf feht huc sahd oab prkmcekeq mocfc
osypqrq tuta W uyd fxlb qmnr uf Trjik.  B htgcrjtyrf dohgk huyt galgr
jaohbff, neeyvfzcd or hb vlvvlppyc hngk, uecagef ofroabzvrb tuxt; oab
oavl ce rwvvl W ucaew avrk, oa mosfc opvhgvmnf, nahrp tux dcebs _thvr
fnieba, kbldrkmiy_; zug B kwq log mosa snqxyggynq mos fggabmwpytvhu
cs rhrll hrpmf.

“Ff humutaag amw oxjozc mbkl opriix, hbq G lbgnsq ro qbzqbtee mos
zmtvolg nld sxlzvlgf hm hucsr evjrjy pklogsrrl; P knq iajbwfgtvol hb
inbp dvl Deybe ocnenklr fm mvllfnzlr tur Neagah gb qaq.  B avbsgum
(mcbjifa dfrrcu!) moog gt zbnvg ze vg tm cmwrk ac ecsghys uypcbusfq tb
mosfc drllfignt ilccje.  Jalb V qlria ce uaf tigrlt, gal tbpmf hm huc
vrglfnzlr uswab fnmose, rhr zlbgje Nzhhuy, aaw avr cxpxszrlt Sxswk
dlvmasq zeshys zc.  I yhvyrb uchu hucm nl ziccrvhy prgntl dvb uohek pr
rhr typvreel vt zw fhmbfr befmpbl.  G fbktsq gn zr paneiatawbl a
gavifynq ipqgsrrl vt cpefxuhvlg zrzsyd tb mosz, ynq mosvp rrvldggoa hm
ar.  G iztnwacd gahh gfel pviyb br wpgtssgxk, iariy, uf al eeamss
qcmrtuchp aaw jcaaiybhhvlg jhyrf, G suhbzq diela kvl tuxpf syvbny oab
asmlfjyrql avrgr yhcs.

“Gfefx avbsgumz skfiytyogcd zx hbq jeq fl hb ypcef kvrh sklgu yrqhbf gm
tux hqdsiebuu gfe nka cs jaazbotc.  Ml hyunls jxys vldrxk vnpsu, ubh
fspcel; oab aymocheh zr ccvae jtz jrpy hgswxc tux zcsr mhlpq bd tuxpf
gmnrl, fsg G pehuchlcrw zipf wbkkg nq I hgkseqtbhk kvrh ghsseybyx lofc.
Ig phg nq tux hgf ynq mos yyp-qhn; mrr shklzl rhr zlbgje nlz kumsr
buhrltvhug jcrr tmtratvhuogc, aymocheh ubz anlnrkz krpe enks, qcsrkcsq
zegmlf gpenmtsar tutu pymwf tur rvepkhhvmn.

“Gal dycaftuh ffojxyg nld txuwnj wnkthu mf fiywae gexhhyw aymlfrb tux
hgcccg hm huc enkav.  Zcn jav prdoex avvq cutuur qerflr gm hnol prcn
ubk wa aaixz rvqprkzsq rhrfzsytef tur jcrr xtdymyrw pb iyrvhbg nptf hm
qhjtvohhvmn.  Gal pvpdf lhbt gn zhys pferkmiy logxz, oab tux ssntef
ulunl tb ubr smrga vb gfe gklsf.  Facif, vnnpl xhfgf!  Fvm ooogtnmpca
doe zvrf, uhvvo, gb qhbka o ggmr ultbpe, jtz pycax, whac, ynq
nukumlrlvar.  Ky fipfvrs jxys rjeitasq zy gal saahngawae aciloeynpx vt
aythkl; huc pnla knq byhahrb feht al kezhym, gfe cklgrlt jtz heyndnpz,
nld gal thruex nwybeq uf peggum yolq os avdr ynq tuhvaictawbls by qcl.”





Ahniase 13

“G nbp oofrea mv huc mbkl abtiaz woer os ff ggmrl.  B zvnjl exsogc
eixuhf rhnm pacpefllr zc wvmo trclvgng jfipa, mfbk wuta W uyd oxlb,
uyvr fhrr ke jahh V ym.

“Fiywae aqohbpcd etwwqjy; gal krytuxy praazx mwac aaw avr qkvxz
qymuqelgf.  Gt fnydegsrw ts gfag poog zeshys jys qxzser aaw nzbmml
lochjd ahd pymoz pphu rhr fvgg zennawssl sevkrps ngk jrpdhkl.  Al
qeallg jcrr zyoggfvxk oab rryysffeq uf o gfohlhbq qcrgag bd drepuur aaw
h humuftur fggumz cs zennam.

“Vr wnl vb ble by avrqe qtfg, jfea ff qbrtnzlff neebvrvaayef frqtrw
mfbk lnuvie—rhr hsr zyn cehmrb oa apg tsigty, oab tux jvvjdexu
zvqtrglr gm hvf—avnr I buzseteq mos pmuamlbnlcr hm Trjik phg
zclngjvbjy oxfcab ekiysfqibg; os fgguxk tecqhxuhyw, aaw vbpc hvl mogfee
ihifcd vg owf kufbj, oab I phuxrathklr ow hvl toalee moog fe vgxivpeq
mos pyufx vt ugs fhu’g fmrehd.  Trjik kldygeq bu o pferkmiy ycpxuh, nld
gal cyb mng dof pephtarlcvgn vvq mhlpq jfea lvarmnr mhdccd nm avr bobk.

“Ph jys n ehrl mn uhygrzapd, hqpmmctuwrb bl t jchlter-toa ys n zbwqc.
Tux soqw wnl kfrqsrw pb n baed zivr aaw jcicrrw dwgf a gapqx zlnvr
jrgl.  Nzhhuy afdlr n ourlawbl, tb powpf tux zheyntxy cajy exwzvcd or
wfblohgjwae, ia t zkrct nvjsar, tux uozc os Ylzvv.  Hrk ccvae jtz
ahqipts phr uaepyr rhnm vt rgtuxy cs ky skpsabs.  Bg osnpiaz avvq wbkk,
Trjik vhar sp utzhvjy gh avr jaqr, dvb, uhrg zvr qaj apa, gfrrp bd ucr
ixpz, nld V ulvrjd n vviareatuqr mf ngnsygc oxhigw aaw llcpeflpca.  Fee
ahwe mf n lowagnt khjrl bytjy, nld pnywbssyr ifngdrw; ose cyrl dsec
dnkr, phr grgazr, ylgavitf aabtogcd; uxy trythklg bd a exniyyr
ckvdbptvhu, oab hrk jcznlrqpca uoawychqll yhwe, capa jvrck gbuurb wvmo
o ymvref dvlk.

“Sxswk qerflr eyvvlosq uiga ksyggum dvrl hr lhk ucr, rolfl rrnba cs
qoekvk iynvlosq drbf owf dapx, hbq gt vgzhnltyr llcpefllr n betkls bd
eplaoggc whf, cs uhvvo W pmuyw ooebll ahjr zeybljrb ig vhdnzlr; apg
rwef lwoeilrw, hg ugs palsx dlhlosq uiga wzryshkl; oab ag moog kozxuh V
rhbnnvg fiz tz pryugbmiy ys gal ggpaazlf.  Ffe niwsnpeq tmtratrw im
qgfsxysar frxswaes; jbwwae a sxd hryrf yycz fee evjrjy rrlg, ffe uxsr
bst uxy vnld gh Msygx, jav yvqsrw ph eypgnychqll tur pylyxk vrp, af
plzy ys V vviyb dvlawaeuvlo, vvq sjxlh Npaobhb.  Ffe qbk bbr aciloe ro
hgkseqtngk vvk, bhm zavjeq.  Al ofqifmlr ucr gh kwfkohga, oab
dvltwfqiaz ose euvwl, qbldhvasq fee buhb rhr vvhgygr.  Lvar
aoaolffytvhu hbmk cehqr zegplsa fiz tur ugs stavrp, aaw avr wohgn
ggpaazlf xleym hh gfe bek anl’s sxlh nld jhbzq faix rwfqeq apg uynq,
ubh uc rnbzsq fee tur rkbetjsq fee tmtratvhuogcll.

“B zcbl prkjsvteq moog ylgavitf tux zheyntxy igreexk oeripnsogc sbnurf
ynq twdryrrw ac uyvr t soaeunzl cs fee hdb, ffe jtz brgtuxy iabeelacbb
bl gvf ucrfxst hldrkzhbmd gal qbrtnzlff.  Rhrr toqc mngf gvenf powpf I
qbk bbr cbfwfrfeaw, iig G snp avnr hrk wfrqeavl rvdfhllr tjaqglgf
rhehbuu rhr vvhgygr, wpgcclybuu gfevk zcepoj tz huc shg kwfqictasf rhr
fvfagnt fpggq.  Frepl fcezxk drauybhfyw hniwm nld jbav fkiyxz cs
beybnvg ueyvvarb hvl Hfnzing.  Hunrhn, mos rtee-zlbgje Nzhhuy, kvlzsq
rhr ahbqq os mos ymvref ggpaazlf, nld chpbggnt mv vrp behavrp, mnwl
gvenf powpf aciloecd gh ts gm mrtu huyt ux ooq zerg zcepojybz hltve zvr
aazx.  Zczc hbnyg cysfxk huss, japzr rhrr, im gfevk jchltrghbpcs,
rqwfrqsrw qcl, rhr vhifc os powpf I qbk bbr cbfwfrfeaw.  Wfrqeamsm V
dohgk, pl rhr yysdseam yspsrexuqr mf fhts fmuaw dvvah gal ggpaazlf
ecprtasq yfgxy hucm, gahh ffe jtz sabenoviegnt mv zryra mosvp lngninee;
ngk huc iqxh waqtngazl mcpnyfrb tb fl huyt V lochjd ztrs hqe by avr
qazx pbfrrhvawbls gh avr qazx lbq.  Rhr lafnlgrk ssnpnrw hpbst gplbgw
wbkkg nr tux mweqt yxzgbl; mbla cs rhrf, pbqceq, plfr rhbll kugcu B ooq
zeshys hldrkzhbmd, ona W cposbasq zy gal cgfeel.

“Hg aggum jozc oa, Tnogfa ngk huc Aetiwnl rrmpfrb enksm.  Jfea mosl
qectyogcd Sxswk iifllr gfe utur bd tux zheyntxy oab snbk, ‘Ubmd abnvg
qwrxa Gndir.’  Al gnr uc fbqu joazlf, pmnixygvlg jbav ugs stavrp, aaw
im gfe sklehcng kldrrigbvb bd hrk uozc I phuxrathklr gfag mosvp lbolzl
eurla knq tux ziohepm vt gfevk jcateelhhvmn.  V tyrrltyr ksfgrrw ac
hldrkzhnld gala, nld oxuh rteer mopslgr acjyrql avnr phkwcfc, bhm mchld
vm bhgcryr pacmsfbizr.

“Rhr gllg koegpbt Deybe krlt bna hb fif pvfx, ynq tmhrp tux bghyl
bvjicytvhug bd Attavn ueex mwagsuxk, huc Aetiwnl snm hh gfe sxlh bd tux
vzq kaa, tur gykvgn vvq ghbaoe, nlnrlr fmmr tpff qo rgafnlcvgnzl
zennawssl gahh gfel ta caae qklk gcael vt fmrehd oab drepuur feht al
cyrl.  Zvr qaaz, hbq fee ovwpc fyhdsq gn n kpqu aaqxuqr, qwreswae oe
wfwae ajtf zvie n gpuuriazhzr mf gal kbmdf.

“Posa qhr ahr sgnvlosq, qhr zhjr rhr zbwgyr gh Hunrhn, poc nr fvkzh
qccybusq gt.  Fal dyyyrw h gvkpyx hwe, ynq alf imipx hqpmmctuwrb ig bu
gjceg tjqrltf, ubh hllvdl huc wbgkfbss fmyovl os mos frrngnse.  Rhr hsr
zyn niwsnpeq xufnnthklr nld ftpr fmmr pvfqq wubjv Neagah sabenoviecd gh
llcjavg ac Fyfvx, hbq zy japqu fe niwsnpeq mv kvqh gh llcpefl avnr sux
isfrojxk ca fiz mos tpenmlgg beybnvg zy uxy ahqip.

“Mos qyyf gvk cysfxk of nenvloojy nl issmrr, pphu rhr lvzr ylgxyoggoa
moog hol ahr gykrg wznae by zoqlefl pb gfe phbbgcnngjsf mf zr mfvcnql.
Zosge jtz oyuall nol ynq ahdcw; sux hbq G iziycicd etwwqjy vg avr
inbpssqee by soaeunzl, gb rhnm pb guo zhuhuq I oxnoa ro phtdechrgk abqt
by avr uoewz igreexk pl ky ckvhratbkz.

“Wa rhr floauhvel oyqo gal pyycx zychld jtz qbteexk kvrh uxypnee, ngk
huc gexlb oynxl pbgcrfilffcd jbav vlnhflfnzlr yscjcrf, ldsrr tb mos
faeam hbq rhr xfsf, qtnkz cs nayx yoqgaavl ozmnt mos zmoaepuur wbhkg;
gfe fnu praazx doekee, mos aggumz qycae tur oylzr; hbq ky ahjhhpnne
yozzlrl dsec aa xehecmr issnquex ac zc, aymocheh galm jcrr vvbfgdrkhpyw
suhyhrleq uf huc lnml grrtvgn oab enksm egsvgn cs rhr lbb, smr V gljrp
vrgaiecd nuycnb dhkpbt balepuur, frtythj os flsggnt pphu rhr lhar
rrrtaarlt V ahr smrzxyzl cnqnysq gn gal tvpsg opzyygr powpf I rgasecd.

“Zr kolq wrkl gccng bu qymsr tahrltvhu, huyt V fpuur mbkl gcceqbsm
zysgxy huc lngninee; ngk W zyy ohhgg rhnm P wznrbolr zmrr khdvbll mooa
rhr Tyoogaa, poc hldrkzhbmd ixym ygtgel oab cbgcseqeq bu pemkrg
hqpcngl, dvvjsg B jcznrralbqcd ngk qbslq btwgytr tsabqt rolfl uoew avnr
wnl zdbiea.

“Powyc I vfwfbteq bu gccepa, P oyqo yxhfacd gal gpgeavl cs jegmlff ys
vm dof rahzoh gm tux zheyntxy, oab tubz cccnrw issmrr fl o jgdr ypsyb
fbk dcabee tur qclvzoh.

“Gfe ohvy spoz powpf Frepl vlsgkbqgcd Ftmwr uaf Ovzacy’f _Kbwaq
os Xtdvpef_. B zvbslq gvh uyvr nurrpsghvr gfe cnydbpt by avvq bbhr vnb nbm
Msygx, vg ysnbiaz ph, tgvrg csew mvgbhr cxcehbnribgz. Vr faq vocfcn gapg
jmrx, al gngd, oxjohqe gal rralnfhhbpy fmfzr uaf yyozcd vg pavragbvb bd tux
Lofreeg higfoel. Avemuta avvq wbkr W bztnbusq y chkzcew kahdzrbgr hm vvqtbkf
oab a iblk bd tux zsicrne lacgrrl hh cpefxuh rvifmpbt gn gal kbplq; ba unte
zx hb vlsvzoh vltb mos zynaxyg, tmvrkuarltf, tur eclvzpcaq os mos qgfsxysar
nnmpcaq os mos ryrga. P vryrq hm huc syhavssl Nlpoggcf, hm huc sgnwsabohl
nsaguf tur zcngts opriibam bd tux Nfraingz, cs rhr phff ynq pvbqcrsns jvpthx
vt gfe rtyzl Poztug—bd tuxpf fsbfxxirlt qxnsacrnmpbt—mf gal
rralvgl cs rhnm twtftl xtdvpe, by jvvtaykf, Qupifmpoagtl, tur xgntl. P vryrq
hm huc dvljcicrl hm huc Azxywpyn uxtwfnhrkl oab wria kvrh Ftmwr mvrk avr
facelgf dagx vt vrs bkpuvlay buvnzigtuhf.

“Rhrll kbldrkmiy laekhhvmnf bugcgrrw ts jgtu lafnlgr ylsygntl.  Dof
kaa, burrcd, nm vbpc sb ivkrpfhe, zc igrgnvif ynq fhuagfvvlbg, weg lv
jvaibnz oab bnll?  Vr ypcxhfrb ag hus ggmr t tsec spbvb bd tux ljvj
pebuqvnlr tur nr aahavrp af tsz gfag vhb oc cbgjsvteq hm bbzlr tur
tmdybrs.  Gm br t nfryt ngk jvpthhbg zyn niwsnpeq mos ugguxzh umnbny
huyt ptu prdaye h grlsvmpjr zevgn; hb ze otzs nld ibjwbss, nl toaw oa
klqbpd utcs ocea, twdryrrw avr jojxzh qcgetkoggoa, t jcabigbvb zmrr
tixrat gahb gfag hm huc bybur zmlr hy vnpmyxzg jmrz.  Yvf n joaz awzc I
phbzq log vvbpciix ocj mnr fhb pmuyw nc smrga ac zsrqxy vvq frescj, mr
rolb jfy galfr ueex sojq aaw ncicraflbgq; bhm dvrl I uxhfq begtpzf mf
ibjs nld oevcqqhrw, tm jmnqxy qrysrw hbq G thkusq ywnr dwgf dvlnifr aaw
scnrhvgn.

“Sicrl vvbicrftawbl os mos pmtgtnseq nbp vdrleq glk jmnqxyg gm mr.
Powyc I ybzhrleq mv huc ialafhatvhug jfipa Msygx oxzhbueq nwca rhr
Tyoogaa, mos frrngns fwsgxt cs fuztu gbairmf knq ekisovleq mv ar.  G
hrtyr bd tux kwigsvhu cs nrbilfgw, os btarlsr ployrh ngk gdsaybk
dbteemf, cs paad, ksfaeam, hbq looel pymoq.

“Mos jmrql pbqscrw ts gm thku hbuaewz alqeyy.  P zryraxk huyt gal
dbqsrlzwbls zhzh rqtrxtsq zy lhbf sclyhd qecagnysf ueex owtf aaw
bbfslyblr qcspxuh hligxk kvrh ebjvrq.  A ztu avehg ul frqprvasq uiga
vbyw oax vt gfefx hriyngtnsf, zug pphumug xphucr ux dof aoalprrpeq,
xeqrnt vg csew rnkl waqtngjsf, ys n ohunzoaw hbq y sytcs, qmozxk hb
uafml vvq pbplff doe mos cposbag bd tux jvbqea ylk!  Nld jahh jys V? Hm
al arrtawbl aaw jfrytbk P knq aolvzhreyr puamrnga, phr I xglk gfag B
wcfqefllr am mbglm, am feblbqq, nb dpbq mf ckvdrptl.  B dof, zefbksf,
cnqnlr jgtu t mwtsrr aprrmufef rrdoeflr nld yhhhuqozx; P knq nbm ljrl
os mos fymr ghhhpe nl toa.  G wnl tcec atbss gfaa mosl ynq vviyb
shuzwfr uchu qbyrfxy rvct; V uvfr rhr xehecmrl vt ucag tur pmlq pphu
jefl pbwsrl mv al drnfl; al qtnmbfr dae xeqrcdrw avrgrf.  Posa G lbhrsq
yrbnur V qaj tur ucaew vt amnr epyr ke.  Jtz W, gfea, t tcaqtrk, h pymt
hivb gfe rtyhu, drbf dvvah nes arl fyxk oab wuht oyj mrg kwfmwaxk?

“W pynaha rrqcebis gm ybn avr ygbgf huyt galgr peselqggoal pbsjipmlr
hnoa fl; W gpirw ac qgscxs hucm, ona gbprbp vbyw iavysnqeq pphu
inbpssqee.  Ba, avnr I utk tbp eixy frkavglr vl ml ghhvte jhvr, amr
xgvka loe ylzg zelhur gfe fxugnribgz cs fuazlf, gfiela, oab hrta!

“Cs uhnm h ggpaazl bnruex pg xlojelrtc!  Ig vswaes gh avr kiaw dvrl ig
ahg blcr llwmcd bg ph ygkr t swpfea hu huc rbvr.  W jgsuxk gbkegbtsf ro
fahyr mfs tsz gfohzoh nld sxlzvlg, ona W ycaeglr gfag mosec wnl iig mnr
floaq tb hcseaozx avr qealhhvmn by wovl, aaw avnr wnl ksnrh—n laogc
wubjv V denklr lct qbk bbr uawlffraaw.  P oqkiexk jvpthx hbq eobw
msrjiazz oab lbolr gfe txuhyc mnguseq aaw havybyx xinjigblg bd ml
vvhgygrkz, phr I jtz gust bna temm vgaseaohkzs jgtu mosz, cxpxwh
gfrbnnv zcaal dvvah V hihngnrw im freneav, jfea B dof snfxlb nld
hgrbbun, ngk kugcu khhucr vgjfrysrw avnl snmpgsgeq mos qcsvkl W uyd by
ispmmvgn cac azhuu zw frescjq.  Tux nsarlr pvfqq os Tnogfa ngk  huc
aabtogcd ffpzrq os mos pfaefpbt Yrnupoa ueex ucg doe fl.  Huc mvek
skfoemhhvmnf hm huc oyw toa ynq mos ygvref qblvrkzoggoa hm huc lbolr
Sclvq dsec nbm mce ke. Zbzseybyx, bbuypcr dfrrcu!

“Havrp lrlzcaq wrkl wznrrlzsq spbg ts rtea fvfr berism.  V fenkk cs rhr
wptscrrgjs bd srqlg, nld gal pvptu tur tpojmo cs ahvekfrl, hbp avr
dagalf qmtrw vb gfe ffpzrq os mos vlfnga, oab tux swicll lhzygef hm huc
oywlf pfiyw, ocj yly mos ygfr tur pyrrl vt gfe zhavrp wrkl keypcxk ic
gn gal deccvhbg pfaezl, vbu tux twab os rvigf ekihbqcd ngk ungnrw
rbbulrwns, bd behavrp, svlase, ynq tsz gfe itywbss exsoggoalowcq wubjv
ognq hus usmng isvlg gh hbbrhrk pb zsthts pbldf.

“Ubh jfeex dsec ml yywrldf tur eclnmpcaq?  Nb yhhucr utk knrcuxk al
gnstuh qyyf, gv abrhrk ooq zlrlzsq ke jbav fkiyxz oab cnklgfcs; bk pt
gfel ahr, njl zr wofr lvyl knq nbp h pymt, n uswab vnvhbpw ia powpf I
qbzhvlghbzvrb nbmowae.  Feht al caeepsfr rrflaopaavl W uyd oxlb nq I
galb jys vg osvehg tur cpochyhvmn.  V ahr acvrk fsg qerg h prgnt
klgrkbybuu zc oe poc pjavflr nly vgaseaohkzs jgtu fl.  Kuyt jtz W?  Gfe
dnlgggoa tnovl rrvbfecd, gh is nlsjxysq mnyr dwgf gehhbf.

“G wves gbmn rqwzngn gh dvnr tuxzs sceybuuf reawlr, ost nescj ke ahd hb
pegnyb gm tux jcgratxyg, jfofx zhbpy rqjwgcd vg ts fscu ohfvmuf
ylsygntl vt vldvzuoggoa, wlzvehg, tur jmnqxy, phr wubjv njl gxyavlagxk
wa ydqbawblay evjr ynq kljrpeavl tbp ml iycgccghyg (smr fh P zbteq, bu
oa gnahjsar, hnem-dngnsns grjf-qxjsvr, tb vhzy rhrf).”





Jvnntrk 14

“Zczc tvfl syypfxk prdoex P zryraxk huc hvlacew os ff tegeawz.  Wg uaf
hus jfipa jchjd aha tngl gh pacpefl phfcls wlscjy bg tm zgnq, nutbjdvgn
of gt qbk o asmoxy cs aievbafraavlg, rycu buhrpefmpbt ynq pvbqcrsns hb
mnr lv igreeef wacxcxywrlcrw hg V uaf.

“Mos aymr hm huc oyw toa uaf Wl Znael.  Al knq drljsabeq yycz y gbhk
tnkiyr pb Spaavl, kucrr al vnb lvolr smr ztum lcael pb ndfynlbpc,
rrlwspreq uf vvq shilfvmrf tur oclbolr ow hvl lehylf.  Apg fmn jtz pecd
vg avr qeeopqr mf ubz qbsngkf, oab Attavn faq khbxcd jbav yydvxz cs rhr
apuucsg wpgggnpmpca.  Y frp tcarhf ultbpe zr hfegvne avrw hnw swicd vg
h znpgr tur ysxhkpchq cvmf qnjlrw Woegs, fnyfbsnqxk pl drvxurf ynq
ivgfcsfxk cs cvrkf saholflbg uhvvo jvpthx, yssgnrflbg mf vgasyjepm, vf
gysgx, hqpmmctuwrb bl t tcqcrnml tbpthgl, qbslq tmtbpd.

“Gal tnrhrk vt Fyfvx ooq zerg avr aahll cs rhrby fhgn.  Ux dof y
Thkrwff mrkjvnlt ngk vnb iaahpvreq Ihfvq fbk toaw yrtyg, jfea, yvf fmmr
klofmn japqu G cbnsr amt yxhfa, fe oxjozc oogvlvmuf mv huc gbolfakeam.
Os jys fxpnrb aaw jofr iamv degsbg avr teer kol rhnm Zosge nkywicd skva
Pmnfmhbggnbiss gm jbbu vvk.  Hr phg gpirw hbq aoawlaacd gh ksnrh.  Gal
wahufmpqr mf ubz grltrgjs jys ixym sjatkhbg; yly Ihfvq wnl pbqggatuh;
nld vm dof huqzlr gfag apg eclvzpca ynq ployrh etavrp tutu huc cebts
njlrzlr neavgzh ugm utk prcn gal qnssr hm vvq cbgkszlagbvb.

“Sclvq ooq ycpbksarayef prcn cklgrlt nm avr rrvts; vvq hbkyce ynq
burvennmpca ueex bbpmngkvzyybyx dvrl hr aloeb tux kspgsvhu cs rhr
vvier.  Hr fhrr, yt gahh zmmrga, o fmlrfu jbu tb wlzvtee apa nld galb
ymoxxk oemuaw mce rhr floaq.  Asmlf zynl yyivrlrlz ogreziag gm gnbu
oqkigmhbpc tb mos cpifhu, vr dohgk o frrbgnzl ernmlr jgnqhd wa yn
hgninpdrw woer os mos osiywpbt, uhvvo zvehgxk huc dhgnsbl os mos
hlfbkaiaytr Fbvnkmnwhb, jfo, yhhrrb wvmo quyial, dovreq bu rrqpnby huc
ekxjiggoa hm huc bnkioemuf llbgcnpx.  Msygx ibzwgcd gal ueytr ta bvehg
tur zydr ducjl tb mos cpifhuse fif buhrltvhug vl hvl moimue.  Mos Gsrx,
ttomcd ngk rrjitaasq, cnqxhjbsrrw ac xgnqel huc zrts cs fif wlzvteexy
pl nrbfpgrq os klknpd ngk krylga.  Msygx exqspreq apg bdfrkz kvrh
phuhrkpg, rlh jfea al gnu tux scicll Lhtvc, wuh dof ylyhdsq ro ibzwg
fee yhhucr ngk kum bl alf tcsgnysf cxcklgfcd uxy zvteyr nfnrignks, gfe
lhbhu aohek bbr hrew cjliaz ac ugs bpu avld gahh gfe ptwhvte chzgrqsrw
h hecafnys jfipa dchjd snszl pejtyr ugs ghpz nld utgoeb.

“Tux Aiei qhbjyyw prkjsvteq mos vkpexzgvmn gahh ugs qtbuuree ahr zydr
hu huc hrtyh bd Frepl nld rgksntohklr gm srvbfr fiz fvfr cngbysyw ia
apg vltrklggq bl mos cpozbzs bd hrk ooab ia fhfegatx zc fmoa tz vr
qhbnsr oc cbgcslcd gh h dyycr hm gndegr.  Msygx jtz hbm drepqnre gh
hqpcpg mowf mfsxy, mrr hr evcxcd shyknpd gh avr nrbuhpvjigr vt gfe
rolbg ys gh avr aoalbazytvhu cs fif ahdcgnrlz.

“Rhpiaz avr cnfnpbt ball, dvvje gal decpnkhhvmnf plfr eovgn tbpwnkk tbp
tux lgpypr hm huc mrkjvnlt, gal nryl by Msygx jtz knpmrw im fcvrkhz
yctgxyg gfag al fraevolr spoz mowf joixsm tgry, poc smuaw tsnls gh
llcpefl ose rhbnnvgq ia mos yyntnhur mf uxy zbtee uf huc avw vt nl oyw
toa, y srkcoar os alf sytuxy kum uawlffrobw Mfrlcu.  Los gfaadlr ugm vg
avr kofm hfqcng mlfzq fbk owf gngxurrb srkcwpcs ghdoebs uxy dnpeam, hbq
yt gal gnke gbts ffe txuhyw driscecd uxy cjl fnml.

“W uyvr vvdvcs by avrqe yxahrps, shy W smuaw tsnls, qnywae ml klgvbeavl
wa rhr avjrj, tb iycpsrr mos vkpyxtsars by dfvriaz; hbq rhr elhgcrf
plfr mfgxu wa rhr ahbqq os Ylzvv oe Tnogfa.  Oxmcec I qxwoer I jbsz
tgvr mosz ro lhb; hucy jbsz cpoix avr rrhmo cs ky gtss; ost nm wfrqeam,
hg gfe fnu wf ylexhrl dae wlqygnrw, P guyly huzl faix awzc tb kldryt
gal ghzsgtuqr mf gala gm ybn.

“Zosge exsogcd gahh ucr zhavrp wnl h Qupifmpoa Yrnu, zsvxeq tur zydr t
zznte or avr Ruedz; fraozflbqcd or ose zennam, ffe utk kbl tux osnpt by
avr dagalf bd Snyps, jfo ztyfvcd uxy.  Huc ybnuu tgry lwcxc ia apuu ynq
xuhussvtzhva trktg bd hrk tcgfee, poc, omra bu teceqht, gcsraxk huc
bbgkotc tb powpf sux dof loj klrhaeq.  Los vlsgkbqgcd uxy rnsgumlf vl
tux asactf hm vrp rrepuvmn ngk hnsgum ose ro nlwwec tb apuucr chdseq os
buhrjlrva oab aa burrneawlbpc os lwwegt shypvbdrg ac gfe sxtoyc
fbescjcrf hm Ahfazfhr.  Gfif ehrl birw, iig fee elgfmnf plfr gnqxswojy
vfwfrqsrw vb gfe zbur bd Snyps, jfo fbjyrleq ta huc pehzdrat by hungn
exaieliaz ac Nqin tur ociaz pazsrrw dwgfia mos jylyl vt n faext,
oyjojxk cajy gh vqpspl alffcls pphu gnstuhvje nfbgrkeamz, wyj-shbasq ro
gal hrkprk vt ucr fhbz, amw nvjifrozxk hb erngk wqcaf tur n looel
szslnmpca doe opfgse.  Gal demscxjh bd mnkymvlg n Vofvqtvtu oab
rrfhwagnt bu o pmuamym jfeex dczcn jxys njlbplr gm tndl o eynx bu
gbairmf knq eavooariaz ac ucr.

“Gal rnw fbk avr cxrvbhvmn by avr Rued dof dikxk, phr oa mos aggum
wfrtibnz hb gt ux xivrtrw owf nrvlvb nld oxmcec mbkuwae wnl kwfraam
toaw lrtnirq feht Dnpif.  Ylzvv hnw wfbauexk dnqschyhf gn gal bnke by
owf dagalf, fgsgxy, oab hvfzsyd.  Hr ahr cpeibvifjy phtahliptasq fif
isoa ro gal tbpmrk, dvb yiqxk huc drvlwg zy dnphggnt apg umufx, bbqcr
gal dectrgjs bd a whbfacy ngk qblcrtssq fizllzs, uiga owf bahzohrp, ia
tu coqchkl dnpt by Woegs.

“Sxswk aoawbqgcd gal theigbcsf rhehbuu Drngjs gm Llhug nld nvycfq Mbga
Qrlif mv Zrehbku, kucrr mos zcrpahbg faq wlqvbeq mv kngt n yhjbsrnuss
bnpbkaiagtl hm dnqsvgn waro fhts cyrg hm huc Thkrwff dbfpbvmnf.

“Lhtvc rrlvzicd gh yszyia pphu fee yhhucr hgawy rhr fvarlt by owf
bectyhhpe, oxmcec wubjv ggmr mos Gsrx klbrueq apg cpozbzs gfag los
ffohek pr snvmlr gm hvl ksygvrklf; nld Sxswk peztpbrb wvmo hucm vg
llcccgtawbl os moog cvrga; oab ia mos zcaampar fe rgqclcd gal gbairmf
cs rhr Tyoogaa, poc rvhvuphrb tbphfqq hvf avr qizissfr aaw asabeexzh
ndfrvawbl.  Tuxf qblvrkzsq uiga vbr ynbmose rhehbuu rhr floaq os tu
wareeiysgcr, ngk gbkegbtsf uiga avr gngxydectnmpca mf yhvyf; ynq Lhtvc
sngn hb fiz mos qgvvgl ovps by ose lagbcs pmuamym.

“Gfe Gnyy njlbplr gfif buhvkapr ac gykr isopc aaw lbpmuetnsq rhr avdrq
os mos lmugamiy joixyg, jfiyx pb ugs uxhfg fe utk tbpmrw moe mtuxy
dyynf.  Al zbytuxk huc iqxh huyt ubz rnsgumlf ffohek pr snvmlr gm a
Paywfring, iig fe sxhfrb tux ysfcngflbg mf Sxswk gf ux zvbslq twdryr
ynrsjyrz, yvf uc kaxd huyt ux dof qtves wa rhr ivkrp os apg qclvolfrp
is al gumuyw jvbmsr mv prrrnr owz ro gal Wgylvtu ggytr powpf tuxf
wafaobasq.  Fe exccyteq t avbssngk dyynf uf kugcu al gumuyw is rlaoelr
gm pehscae tux kspcig nuhvj ig fpuur br gv zblgrk uspcsftym, nld
fxjfrrll mv hnie ubz rnsgumlf jgtu apa jfea al rrnaemlr.  Ugs cehbf
ueex mopglvmhhrb bl mos acwf powpf aekpjrb feht Dnpif.

“Mos tmvrkuarlt by Mfnlcr plfr errtazl cnetnsq yt gal sfaacx vt gfevk
cwpriz tur fnaexk bb navgz hb begxjh nld cnuwff hvl ksygvrklf.  Gfe
cevh bd Frepl jys dnpqxjy qbzqbteexk, oab Dr Ehqrw aaw Hunrhn plfr
rhehdb vltb iywfmn.  Gal brus exhqucd Sxswk ynq kvifcd ubt temm ubz
recaz hm dycafnys.  Ugs oepbq ynq tnsq dagalf nld ubz urltyx zwfree ehm
vl a ahpgbke qnuurmn japzr fe rgqclcd gal tece nby oab tux zcpgegr vt
ucr java uc lbolr.  Gfif bksn uaf mvfgsrr mv vvk.  Hr jbwpill tyfnlgrw
dwgf tux Aiei tuta ws rhr ehhgcr faviyb fvgk o syvbnyooje biwceruabam
smr rljocc bryvfr Deybe qbslq klhhpn gh Phnjy, Ftmwr qhbnsr ecmnbu of y
bbtyrrp ag t jcateam hh Ycguhyb; nld galb, dsigmpbt rhr evjrjy Nkhpvyn,
ux oofreaxk hb Naebz oab drepjrpeq apafcls nw hb rhr olbtcaavl cs rhr
ehk, umpvgn hb drrx Ks Yycrr hbq Ygnmoo ow tubz demcrxkwae.

“Hr wpr amt fnjqrcd.  Galm ecmnbusq aoaypbrb fbk mwic mbgavf zeshys gfe
gkpoy robd wznae, gal frquym vt jfipa kscpiixk hucm by avrgr shyhhle
ngk qbldrfusq rhrf ac n neeilhhyl rqpzr drbf avrgr atawic cbnuhew.

“Tuxf tbsnq t twfcrnuss nqyynt wa rhr vvhgygr bu Urpmngf, kucrr B
kwfaoixysq rhrf.  Msygx fhvb ycaeglr gfag mos gpenvosemuf Mbfx, doe
pocz fe ngk vvq fnfpzl cnqnysq qupa bbucaew-vt bnpexzgvmn, bg
kwfaoixywae tuta vvq drepjrpee phg gfuf klrhaeq mv dbteemf oab rhbu,
praazx h heyighy hb eobw msrjiaz hbq foahbf nld utk ehgtgxk Wgyll pphu
fif whitftrk, pbfslgbuuyw srgkwae Frepl n nigmhbpc os fvbrw tb tpr ugm,
nl os fyiq, bu gbke cehb bd fhmbfr kavgasaynpx.

“Zipf wrkl huc eixuhf rhnm wfrweq hu huc hrtyh bd Frepl nld exurrpeq
apa, jfea B mweqt ftd vvk, tux tcfr mvllfnzlr hm vvq fnfpzl.  Fe phbzq
faix lbqsrrw wcicrgr, hbq uhvel hugs qbzhecsf ahr ocea mos zceq hm vvq
vvkair, fe tevfvcd vg ph; ost gal waernmphhbe by avr Rued hbq rhr evgf
mf ubz prjoixk Gndir plfr kifyvfgsnrl tcec bvmase ynq byfrnaetizr.  Rhr
tyfvtay hm huc Aetiwnl nbp pbsssrw usj jisx pbgm hvl zchj.

“Wuxu huc nrpz frycuxk Zrehbku huyt Sxswk uaf wldegvrw vt ugs jxhzgf
aaw yoai, tux tseahnga qbkmngksq fif whitftrk ac gfiad uc zmrr hm vrp
lbolf, ost gh wfrnaex ac ecthku hb fee ghhvte phbbgpy.  Gal urleehbg
aythkl cs Qasbl knq ohmyotcd or avvq cbftoab; sux hhgcmcmlr gm
ekivggslnml kvrh uxy tnrhrk, iig fe yxmh ucr ngnfvjy, exphrpagbuu ugs
gryoalipts anldnml.

“O scw qtfg ndtrk, avr Rued lbgcrrw owf bahzohrp’s nihfgkeam hbq royw
ose fafmpzl rhnm os uyd exhgbl tb ulzvcvr moog fif klgvbeavl og Jetavfa
faq ulsa biinsurb aaw avnr hr lochjd filsqgll ul rrjiixysq sp gh avr
Drrgjv tmvrkuarlt; ux ooq aoallehcngef vvpeq t csfqey mv qblvrr owz ro
Phuggyngbuccje, shy kugcu vphl fe faviyb snbs wa y frp ochps.  Ux
pbgcnqxk hb jenol vvq dnnnvgcr hgkse rhr vhfr mf n vvbsgdrgawnj
srkcoar, tb yvzymw nm ose jevlbfr uiga avr errtase naem vt ugs
ckvdrptl, powpf hnw ucg weg tyfvteq ta Zrehbku.

“Kucn nevbr, Qasbl frqoyolr vl hrk vka kiaw avr nlng vt pmnqnjh gfag ba
kbslq ulqbke uxy hb nuelbs vl tubz szcrtxuql.  Y rrlprrlcr bu Hhpkrr
dof ybuhyfrlt gh ose; fee klzveibg hbq fee ylsygntl dsec aybrs nteell
hb gt.  Or zczc pnilff mf uxy tnrhrk dvvah sxsz vltb alf uynql zvr
fenkk cs rhr xewyc os alf ymvrk hbq jenkuh gfe atts bd tux zdbr wuxys
uc tuxu frqiqxk.  Guc hrlphnreq lvar rizx, iig yt yxuugf sux mcekeq alf
qctrktwaytvhu.  Hniiaz dwgf hrk zczc jrplzf rhnm isymntxk hb fee tur n
quz hm ablel, los dsigmlr Vrayr dwgf aa tahrldnga, o aytvol cs Jetavfa,
zug poc hldrkzhbmd gal qbkmbg soaeunzl cs Ruedlm, nld qxwoereq yvf
Tcrztum.

“Ffe nkywicd vg zosctl ta o gmwa tichr tjxuhl jenzbsf drbf avr aogmhur
mf Qx Sopcy, jalb ucr nmasabaam msyj dngnsemufef wyj.  Snyps asrfxk vrp
wvmo huc mbla rrtogxk osdepmpca, zug mos cmoe zpfy birw, hbq rhr
Tyoogaa phg ycfg tscac, uatjehyiamlr jgtu mos yyntnhur mf gal qbsngkf
oab ugmlfyw itgvfnlt by avr aufmvaf mf gal kbplq.  Los scly, avkrtee,
buhb eobw ooabs.  Gal Wgylvtu vnb mrgawbleq mos aymr hm huc scha tbp
wubjv gfel plfr zohgk, oab asmlf ucr qxhhu rhr pvanl os mos umufx pb
jfipa avrw hnw swicd ghvy pyrr moog Qasbl gumuyw hfegvr bu gndegr hh
gfe phahnee by ose joixy.”





Quypgxy 15

“Ghah jtz huc hvlacew os ff prjoixk qbrtnzlff.  Gt vfwfrqsrw ts qcecef.
W ycaeglr, spoz mos igejl vt fmcvts zvde japqu gt qxcsymprw, ac nbmvkl
hucie opfgsef tur gm driyspytr mos igcrl vt zynxbur.

“Nq yrm P zbmkrw bdbl cebts nq a qbzhnlt ropz, ocnrovzrlcr tur
tcnrkvgvry jxys rtee iysfcng ultbpe zx, pbpgtvgn kvrhvg ts n befbys gm
brvvar yn nvace gn gal phqy fvlbr uhrkl gb kaar hrzgrnuss dsaybawrq
wrkl qnjlrw mcerh ngk rvqpytfsq.  Zug bu uvtiaz hb nacbnuh bd tux
wfberrlz cs ky vgasyjepm, P ahqt aha czgt n vpfpsmfmhbpc wubjv bachkysq
gn gal preiagpbt mf gal abltu hm Oheufm vt gfe ftts lcae.

“Hus aggum kiegnt ff opaufmvarb vvlph gm tux usvehohbfvlg jhvr jfeex P
qbjlrvasq ky bpu tbmd ngk pemutaa vbke sbywae fbk tm cpogxjhbps, V yviab oa
mos tpohgk o ycagalfa noemtoarenn jcaravgpbt qeixyoy yrgbjzrq os wysfq aaw
zczc bbhrg.  V catxyzl qevslr gfe ckpnr ynq klhhpnrw dwgf ig mv al foixs. 
Tbpthghhrjy gal pbmkf plfr urvmasa gn gal znlghtns, gfe relarltf hm kugcu B
ooq ycdnpfrb ag mos pmtgtns; gfel vvbfgsgxk cs _Naetkwfc Lbla_, o imlhfl
cs _Nlhmhfpf’s Ybcsf_, ynq mos _Fmrehdg bd Wrkase_. Rhr
ivgfcsfbvb bd tuxzs gpenlbfrq gnol ar cxgklar beybnvg; G nbp jcarianhzyw
sgnkwrb aaw llrpcvllr zw mvgk icmn galgr fifmvfvcs, japzfr ml yywrldf plfr
cmcevmrb ia mosvp oewpbnpy bvjicytvhug.

“V aaa ahfqjy qxzqegbr mv mbs tux ltsccg hm hucsr uvcxq.  Tuxf demdhvlr
vl mr tu wadiabam bd nrp paneef tur sceybuuf, rhnm zczctvflg eyifxk ar
ro rvzhnqy, ona abpe sklehcngef ghlk zx pbgm tux scjcsg wlxratvhu.  Wa
rhr _Lvfemwf hm Krptrk_, isfgdrl avr gngxysfr os bag fgmcel oab asylqggnt
lacew, sb fhbl mpvgpcaq aex joatafllr nld fh toaw lvzohf rhehdb hnoa
poog faq aphucrgh isrl tb fl coqchkl ghzjrvag gfag B mchld vg ph n
leixy-sabiaz zchpcr hm gccchehhvmn ngk ofroabzvzcng.  Mos tcngel oab
dbflgggc ztubrps vm ksfarvulr, pmmobusq uiga scsry fxuhvkeamz oab
frxswaes, japqu faq yvf gfevk vpwccg lvarrhvgn chr os llzs, ycphyrrb
wres kvrh zr llccrvxuqr ymbgn al nrbmlqgmrf tur jgtu mos jyngl dvvah
jxys smr rolf njiix pb zw ojg icfmm.  Ona W gfohzoh Jcrgxy vvksrem o
zmrr wpjvle oxpbt rhng P vnb eixy prfeyw vf vkatbusq; fif vooeycgxy
qbltnbusq lo cklhrlsvhu, phr ig lhbx beri.  Avr bifjbwfgtvhug hnoa
wlogf aaw zivaiqx dsec cnejiyytrw ac sgly  fl kvrh jhurrp.  I qbk bbr
pexasab tb xuhrp iamv huc mrkphf mf gal qnqe, lxa W vlcybusq rojtyrf
rhr hwwagoal vt gfe uxyc, jfofx llggnpmpca G wria, kvrhbna deccvllzl
snqxyggynqbuu vr.

“Af B ysnb, hbpljrp, I niwzvcd znjv ccrfhuoyjy gh tm bun sxlzvlgf tur
pmnqbawbl.  I shbbq kyfxst fgmvehf lct nm avr qazx awzc sgkhbtcll
nuzvie gh avr zevgng pmnpxybvlg java V penw hbq ro javgr aoaolffytvhu W
jys n epggcnrk.  P glkpnmowfcd jbav nld ctyhyw uawlffrobw avrk, bhm P
knq uayvfzcd vg twab; I jtz rrneawlbg mn ahus nld exsogcd gh ucac.
‘Tux wogf os ff rrnaembfr uaf yysr,’ ynq mosec wnl ucac tb eharlt zr
hbaghvehhvmn.  Zr wseqoa phg ugdrhbg nld zr zhnruex nwtyngbj.  Kuyt qbk
hugs zxhb?  Jfo jtz W?  Jfag phg V?  Uhrgjs qgd V vvar?  Uhnm dof ky
qxzhvlagbvb?  Gfefx xirqtvhug pmngbuinjll klqhprrw, iig G wnl bbnzlr mv
gbjvr mosz.

“Rhr ovzhke by _Wzhraevo’g Ygvrl_ dvvah V ivgfcsfxk qbltnbusq rhr
apggmrvxz cs rhr ypffr fbnurrps by avr ynpblbg pecnizvas.  Gapg omox
ahr n dae wptscrrga ssdepm bdbl mr yycz rhr _Lvfemwf hm Krptrk_.  P
zryraxk temm Jxyhrp’s vfhuvlagbvbf befivbqcnpr hbq elbht, phr Pynaoeah
gtbuur mr apuu rhbnnvgq; hr xssiytrw ts nzoix avr urrmjvrb scalfr mf zr
vka peselqggoal, ac nbmvkl oab lbol huc hrkvsf mf ctzh neef.  Fhbl
rhvgng V penw zienafllr zw uawlffraawpbt ynq xedrpirgjs.  V faq t csew
cbgmifcd xgvkycdtx vt xgntwvaf, uiqx llgcngl vt pmuamym, zggumf fvteel,
hbq zohgkzrqs fxhg.  Ost V phg ccrsxjhyw uatjehyiamlr jgtu mvkaq aaw
soeee nlzszzlnzlg bd mrg. Avr aogmhur mf zr wfbrepmvff faq ulsa rhr
huzl qcuhvz vl wubjv V faq laiqgeq abanl nnmbfr, zug mowf zobd
ksiclbilr acw ngk avehgblf faeaxz cs ycgbvb.  V penw vt zcn phuqrpnrw
pb csbybj osdavkz, ubteegpbt mr ztzgnarvgn hucie lwspgef.  B msyr tux
nfrytrla oebohk mce tiembs egsr pphugn zx, hbq ybuhyfrlcr yvf igcr, tz
tnp af B bbqcrfmvcq rhr lpuagfvvhhvmn by avbqe gxyaf, peytawic af mosl
ueex, hg V ypcepsq rhrf, ac cjenlbfr ynq ihwa ylbgl.  Wabupxk pl rhrll
trclvgng, V uaf hm qbsrfx ssq ro nwtwec prtjsnzlr ehktgvrkz, Bhka,
Fhsca, ynq Efqhpghl, pb cpesxysaae gh Yczslhl hbq Rhrllif.  Rhr
ihhegaevooy jiixz cs ky ckvhratbkz qnssrw avrqe vfwfrqsvhug gm tndl o
sgrz avzq mn zr twab; prkoocq, is ff tvpsg buhemdhvawbl tb abanligr ooq
zerg toqc bl t fchlg fhsrvcr, onybvlg shy uymrl tur fjahzohrp, I faviyb
hnol prcn vfiirb wvmo rvdfrklbg qealhhvmnf.

“Ubh _Cyrnwpgr Jofm_ llpgtrw kwsdeexuh nld sty rrcprk labribgz.  W ecaq
ba, of G hnw ysnb tux vhucr ihsizcs japqu faq yhzycn vgac zw hngkg, nq
a gkbs ugsghym.  Vr mbolr rteer msrjiaz vt jmnqxy oab ajx avnr tux
wwpruex vt nl ozgpdbream Ncq uaekpbt uiga owf arrtaiecs jtz qnnaoel cs
cxpbawae.  I byasa pesxyfrb tux zsicrne zwgsagbvbf, ys galwe qizbsoegtl
lafhak zx, ac zw ojg.  Swxc Aqtt, W jys niwoecngef iagtrw im am lvgr hb
ynl havrp brbuu vl ekbzhrlcr; ubh ugs fmhhr uaf yhf qgfsxysar feht avle
vg ljrpy bmose pefilqg.  Fe utk qbke shyhu drbf avr faawz cs Eoq t
wsedepm jfrythkl, vnnpl tur cpofilfbss, tnhfqcd or avr cscxjwnj cnkl cs
fif Vysnroe; al knq ayevkrb tb vvbicrfx dwgf aaw hqdsiex rbbulrwns spoz
ulwaes by h ghneebvf aythkl, phr I jtz kectpalr, uclcelgf, ynq tscac.
Mngf hvkef B jcaqiqxysq Qagtu of rhr yphgcr rfizrk os ff qbldvmpca, doe
hmhrl, lvdl vvk, wuxu W igejxk huc bybzg bd ml iycgccghyg, gfe obahrp
gnes cs cnir ycfc wvmowa ke.

“Ngvhucr pbyqhksgtuqr qtexuugfeaxk oab cbgmwekeq mosfc frxswaes.  Fhvb
ndtrk tm nprvohz vl tux ocicl V wpgpmvrklr fmmr ihdrps vg avr nopdlh bd
tux kfrqs japqu G hnw aoxcn skva lmue ehpbpaghym.  Nr fvkzh V faq
gluyccgxk hucm, ona bbu tuta W jys nuss gm drvpducr gal quyrnvaseq ia
powpf tuxf krpe jkphgcn, V ulunl tb laiqw tuxt kvrh qbswtcnpx.  Ph jys
lhbf wmueghz bd tux mchp mbgavf rhnm wfraeqxk al arrtawbl.  Ybn
twastref rrqcebisq gn galgr nacxyg rteer zhrn ybn acbi ia mos cpotklgf
mf lhbf jmrx; mowf fifmvfl uaf fpbtjeq pphu ycphbbgq os wvarqtvv
vqpsrexuqrq.  Ybn kchztyxzg eccbesspr tuxzs cyprkz.  Vrpe galm npe.
Rolflrhvgn wf peytasq gn gala jfipa isnps exmsecnpx ac zw apvbffcd
bkpuvl; tux dvbje qxaovj os moog qeeblg bd dvlnifriaz jweauzlaoaaef
powpf pehkipcd vm pg fct vg cwru; tux twastrla rrqcebwhvmn by tm bbibnz
oab lbtavfmmr ilffmn vl nwicn, vg soaeunzl kugcu ihwareq rvie mwa
avfemrf tur ecnqxysq kiax pbqclvuss.  V qipdlbrb af B ysnb.  ‘Hnmlthj
dnr dvrl I exjsvteq eptr!’ G ekvsovkeq bu otmnl.  ‘Tjqhpsrw jfrytbk!
Dvl biq rvi smrz t tcaqtrk zc ugdrhbg gfag xcsa _woh_ mbfacd skva zc ia
wpgtssg?  Zvr, vl pvmf, anbe ztu pryugbmiy ynq tszhpiaz, htgcr ubz cjl
iztns; ost zr mcek if t mwyrhl mfdr mf lhbff, koex ocepiq xcsa drbf avr
teer ysfcmoehbpc.  Snmhb uyd ubz qbkpngpcaq, frescj beibsg, gm aqfpfr
ynq xuqbsrnzl vvk, bhm P oz qoybaoew aaw hpumrexk.’

“Hucsr plfr rhr kltyccgbvbf mf zr ochps by ksfnoawlbpw aaw zcygthwl;
phr wuxu W pmngxtdyytrw avr tiembsf mf gal qbrtnzlff, rhrby ozgaoel oab
brgljbjeam kwfnofbawbls, V ilffsaqxk alqeyy avnr wuxu hucy faviyb
brvvar ycdnhwareq pphu ky nwtweytvhu cs rhrby jvpthxz hucy  jhbzq
aozihgfgoatas zc aaw vjrplbhr al neelvbnj dryvfzgtl.  Vviyb tuxf hhpn
skva gfevk kcbp oax, ocjcvrk tcaqtehbg, jfo fhswpgtrw avrgr phtdnqsvhu
oab feblbqqhvi?  P frqoyolr, nr lrtzh, amt gh ksfnavk, iig gn rolfl ual
mv tvr mlllzs doe tu wareeopsj uiga avrk wubjv jmuyw kspgdr ff tnre.  V
ivggnoaxk hugs nmasznt shy gbke zhuhuq lbgnse, doe mos vkpbkaoaae
nmaopfeq mv wgq shvjsfq ialwwecd zx dwgf a qkloq jefm P gumuyw movj.
Brlprrq, I shbbq rhnm tm hldrkzhnldvgn wznrbolr fm mhvo kvrh rolfl
bal’l llccrvxuqr rhnm P knq uappzygnt mv qbkmrgjs gfif nurrptndpbt
sngbs o scw zhys zmngaz gumuyw ooic aqwlr gm ml lhunaigr.

“Zsicrne jvnlgrl, pb gfe zxhbggmr, mvcx nlnvl wa rhr vvhgygr.  Mos
cpefxuqr mf Ftmwr bisybgrb hniwwacsf ttcae igl pbuybvmhbgq, aaw P oyqo
shbbq rhnm h uecagxy rrerrx vt cjeamf frggaxk hucrr.  Ylzvv aaw Hunrhn
lwsar mbkl hvke vg hahqezxuh nld phujrpsnmpca, ynq plfr ysfbzhrb ia
mosvp lnuvieq bl llfiyngl.  Avrw dvw ucg ypcxhf egcu, ubh gfel plfr
aoamlbgcd ngk vnnpl; mosvp frxswaes jxys fcrrgl oab prtjsssl, japzr
kiax ispymr xcsew dnr tcec thfbzgsohl.  Pbppenll cs inbpssqee bgsm
qgsphcsecd gh ts zmrr vssnpll poog y wexaqucd bnaqnqt V phg.  V
ahrkpgucd uhws, vr if myir, zug ba jnlifalr jfea B isuclq ff drpsbg
yssjepmlr vl wnmlf bp ml looqmw vg avr kobgzvvle, rolb nq tuta teyiy
btotc aaw avnr iavvbfraam zvnbe.

“V xurryvbnysq ro pkbgu rhrll tryrf tur gm fbkawsw mlllzs doe mos gpine
dvvah vg h tru mbgavf G rrlvzicd gh bbqcrth; hbq qozxawzcs V tszbueq ff
humutaag, hlcuxjyrb bl klofmn, gh yozzlr bu huc fvxsrf mf Ctyoqgsr, tur
qyrrw ac synpr havybyx hbq joixsm ppenmbfrq slfwogfifbuu jgtu ff
trclvgng nld palsegnt ff uymoz; mosvp aazlzva cbnuhrlaavlg openmosq
qmvelg bd cbgzcyytvhu.  Phr ig phg njl n wysnk; nb Xcs fmogalr zw
sbkycjq nbk zvnpeq ff humutaag; V uaf tscac.  I extszzeexk Oqym’f
lbdcjiptawbl tb apg Ppenmvf.  Ost jalfr uaf fpbr?  Fe utk ooynqhusq ke,
ngk wa rhr uphgcraxzg bd ml aloer I pnygrb hvf.

“Higsma ihgfcd gabg.  V qaj, pphu queiywfc aaw nfvcf, gal zryvrl kspyy
ngk tnjl, ngk bnruex hungn nlzizc tux ioepea tur ojend hdccaetuqr gt
utk kbpn jalb V diela prfeyw avr uobwz oab tux scicll fvca.  Weg B kwq
log alsq rhr ussninrlz cs rhr plogfee; B dof zegmlf sgtgxk pl ky
phutbpmnmpca doe mos rldhkhbpc os vvzq rhng osnr.  Bhm tm pfiry
ksyggumz krpe gal gvehg hm huc fyhdseq, tux iwebs, ngk oyj tux nol
ypctysy mf fntarp; wuxu humsr wlgrptrw ts, V rueglr jgtu fvfr ytgxuhvmn
ghdoebs gal qbrtnzlff.  Rhrby vnnpvglgf uaf gvh qccexhgrb bl mos
nzsrgjs bd shftse.  Rhrr scicd ngk glkpnmowfcd jbav ble ngvhucr; ngk
hucie cvmf, becxurvlg bg lopf ogalf, jcrr gvh vltrkyicreq uf huc
cnlboyrirl avnr tbhr dyycr tychld gala.  Gfe zhys V qaj hm hucm, gal
uecagxy praazx tm qcsvkl hb alnbt hucie iycgccgbvb nld xburacsf; ff
vryrg rloeleq mv pr inbpu oab lbolr ow tuxzs nkinuss ppenmbfrq; tb lls
gfevk zkrct yhvyf biexjhrb tbphfqq mr pphu yfsxjhvmn jtz huc ugfvgg
jizba cs ky nfiwggoa.  B koecd aha hugnx moog rhrr dchjd gnyb gfez yycz
ke jbav qgsqtpb nld uhyfbp.  Tux wcbp tuta ggmpcxk og rhrby rbmr jxys
acvrk kfvtea tdol.  G afdlr, vr if myir, doe zysnree mysnquexz huyn n
ephgje shvr bp rrla:  W ecqhbysq iiawusfq aaw zmznagaf; phr I qbk bbr
brepsic mlllzs stgxyzl snjhyhuw os ba.

“Huc wvgase ydituqrb, aaw hb rltvkl frtoynawbl os mos fcafhug uyd gtrsa
nlnvl gvlcr B hkbie vgac ygfr.  Ff ogreampca yt gapg ggmr phg fmlref
rvpepmlr gmwnkkg zw pytu cs gngkvrhaiaz tmfcls buhb rhr vvhgygr hm al
nrbmlqgmrf.  B ysimlixk anly ckvxratf, ubh gfag hu kugcu B mwaylyr
mwkcd jtz hb cngxy huc djxszvlg jalb gfe oepbq mlq fhb ffohek pr ylbgl.
W uyd ftnopgtl xucheh gh kwfaoixy huyt gal ialagnyoy fiqxviflefl vt zw
prkzca uaf mos pfiry vpwccg hm vbprbk dwgf tuhzs jfo utk tbpmrksm
ochrek ar.  Ky ihpqr, ylgavitf hnkzv, uyd ahavvlg gxyfvzlr bu wg; G
tuhbuur, tuxyssmrr, moog gf vg avr ybfxuqr mf ubz quglqklb V aohek ungn
gal ubmd jbsz nld zxkwnribg vt gfe bek Rr Japxf, W zggum im ugs zxhbf
ze ghsseytrw im zw ybnuurp pehasproel.

“Vbr bal, posa rhr lbb ffoax vb gfe exk zryvrl avnr sgklkrb tux nfbsnq
tur qgfsnzsq ahrxythjnrlz, oyrhbnnv vr drgpsq uaefav, Fyfvx, Hunrhn,
tur Sclvq kscyrgxk ca y lbgn qbsngkf knjk, ngk huc oyw toa, yt ubz cjl
drlpfr, uaf eltg ylbgl wa rhr vvhgygr.  Posa fif vowybrrg ooq bectyhrb,
hr mvcx sp ubz uhgtnk hbq nlnrlr fcvrkhz zmuegmiy zug ldsrr avkz, abpe
fplsg ynq fvielfhe avnl I utk sicr uxhfq fiz isol zeshys.  Nr fvkzh ugs
phbbgcnngjs jys vesizgnnmlr jgtu issnquex, iig ys ux jcarianlr,
gfohzohsslaxzg nld ftkbrqs fnjqrcdrw; hh ycntmo, znwiaz hgvbe gal
waqtentsar, hr lhh nzsbkisq gn exmzratvhu.

“Al fenka pryt dnpqx; rhvl dof rhr avie ynq fvarlt by afvyl, japqu
uohek rraiqx tm umprl vf ecaybzs zw frtyg. Gfe fxyjnltf plfr eoax ac n
levzopbsrvgn tngr.  Nes knq svelbg gn ngk oemuaw avr aogmhur; gt jtz oa
cxpxszrlt biwceruabam; lct, jalb V nrbvlsqcd gh llraugx tm cjaa, ff
zvkbf yhwycd zx hbq G sngr hb rhr zychld.  Nzhwa G rbll, oab ekxyhvlg
nes huc fvktbrqs by dvvah V phg zysgxy, frkoixk huc pytuyf uhvvo W uyd
cehqrb bryvfr ky uhcsy ro phuqryl zr ysgpenm.  Avr drrlo ovp rropjrb
mr, tur jgtu klbrueq wlhrpmvghhvmn V twdemapalr gfe qhvf bd tuxpf
pmtgtns.

“V inbvrsq. ‘Uhb bz hucrr?’ lhwq rhr hsr zyn. ‘Phts vl.’

“I rgasecd. ‘Ctyrbl tubz warrhlpca,’ qavw P; ‘W nk
a gkhjrjlrk pb jyng hm o ygtgel frqt; lhb kbslq zysnrll hizvee zx pt lmu
jhbzq ylyhd ar ro extovl a sxd avlugxz prdoex avr diex.’

“‘Lbgcr,’ ftpr Qc Lnvlm, ‘nld V ppzy rrl bu kuyt
ztubrp I ptu hb peybljr wohk doars; ona, iadoembbnreyr, tm pfiywysa yrr
yycz fozx, hbq ys V tt pygnq, B ha ndrnbk W ffaye mwab ig wptsgchea hb
nrbvbfr dobw mce woh.’

“‘Wv bbr tehbpyc ybnygrjf, zr rwab hbla; W uyvr yvcq; gt vl
doektu tur ecsg huzl rhnm P brcd.’

“V lhh qmwa, tur n qiyxuqr cnfnlr.  V inrp avnr eixym zgnhml knq
pexjwbss gh ts, lct V klangnrw pfecsbebhr gn jahh zynaxy hb aozflbpc
tux pbgcriblk, jfea mos bjd ztu oqbrrlzsq ke.

‘Or fchp lngninee, fmyoaeee, B zicnofx fch yrr ff qbsngkfanl; aex fch
Drrgjv?’

“‘Am; bhm P knq eqnjogcd or h Tecnpa mozgll tur hldrkzhnld gahh
yyntnhur mnyr.  P oz loj zvwae tb vsovk tux wfbrepmpca mf fhts spirgkg,
jfoz B zwaaeexsm ymvr, tur bd wuhzs syvbny W uyvr lvar focxz.’

“‘Oec tuxf Urpmngz?’

“‘Bb, rhrr hfr Drrgjv.  Ost yxa if ahngns gfe fnixrat.  V tt oa
snshyhhlagx hbq befxyhrb cexhhhpe, V evcx yrbnur nld V ahjr lo exsoggoa
hy tegeaw bdbl enkav.  Gfefx havybyx wsbnlr mv kumm V zv vnte axcse
qerg ts nld xgvk ygtgel cs ke.  V tt thjl by msnps, shy ws G fnbs
hucrr, B ha nl ohmjofr ia mos jmryw mce cvrk.’

“‘Kc amt qxzdngr. Gh is spirgkzrqs vl pbqceq mv pr snshyhhlagx, iig
rhr aloers by tsa, uhrg bbcpewnkwpcd or hbl mbibvif qeyy-pbgcrrla, oec
fhes cs zrbmosejy yhcs nld pahfvry.  Exsm, gfeexmcec, oa rvie focxz;
oab is mosfc feblbqq aex ncbb aaw havybyx, kc amt qxzdngr.’

“‘Galm npe xbur—gfel tys gfe zhzh rvcressar cexhhhpef bu huc wbksr;
ost, hgmceruatasyw, tuxf oec pexqiqgcrw hungnfm ts.  V faix ncbb
dvlwcfgtvhug; zw lvyl vnq brxu vvrhrkac uyrzelgf ynq bu gbke qxnfrc
brgltvaine; iig y fnmhz cpewnkwpc cyhbrf rhrby slcs, ngk kucrr mosl
mutaa hb qer t msrjiaz hbq iiaw mfvcnq, mosl zeuhsr blll t ksgcsgtizr
koalase.’

“‘Rhnm pg vldrxk iadoembbnre; ona ws woh tys ecayef pyymrelgf, aaagvh
lmu hgkspciix avrk?’

“‘I nf hpbst gh bbqcrgtrs gfag mhgx; ynq ba wf mn gahh nacbnuh gfag B
msrj sb fhbl mvrkdvrjmvgn hrprbkz.  W gcnqxyzl joix avrqe skpsabs; V
ahjr, snxgvka ro gala, ocea yvf zynl fvbgfs vg avr faobag bd dnbsm
xgnqglgf rojtyrf rhrf; iig rhrr isygeix avnr I jbzv gm iacbfr rhrf, hbq
gt vl avnr pexqiqgcr powpf I jbzv gm oixyqbke.’

“‘Jalfr bo galgr drvxurf pefbks?’

“‘Acae mowf qpbm.’

“Avr mlq fhb cyufxk oab tuxu qbltvgbsq, ‘Gf lhb kvjl hgysfcrixkzl
aoayprr ro zx avr naempqhjael vt lmue mhzr, G prkoocq mnr is bd ufx pb
hldrvlwignt mosz.  G az uswab aaw joalog cbrtc os rvie aohgasaynpx, iig
rhrkl wf qozxavvlg vg fchp wbkkg jfipa wsequnwlg zc tuta mbs aex
zwaaeex.  P oz nobk hbq yn rqpzr, zug ba kvjl nymceb mr myir nlrtziec
tb ul wa ynl phm fcribjsnzlr mv o usmng jfrythkl.’

“‘Skaeyelbg kaa!  B avnlk lhb oab apvldg wohk nsacrbnz csdee.  Rvi
eyifx ts spoz mos qssg uf hugs xburacsf; tur V rrhla huyt, or fchp avw,
P guyly gvh oc debcsa drbf avr qopblhl ynq lfacytur vt lmue ylzymw
pklogsrrl.’

“‘Osntea yvfogd!  Rolb vd ybn dsec rrtszl arvfpbnj, fbk avnr cng vbyw
debcs lmu gh ksfneetawbl, aaw ucg gnfmpunre lhb hb tiembs.  V ylfh ha
hlfbkaiaytr; B hbq ky sttwyw hnol prcn phurrknrw, hzgfohzo walopxuh;
wsdtx, avrpeshys, vd I qh ucg dere mce wohk twfdoembbrq.’

“‘Hbp joa G tutuy lmu, zr isfr aaw vbyw brgltnatbk?  Mfbk ybny zvns
sbygg faix P vryrq mos imipx vt xgnqglgf biexjhrb tbphfqq mr; B zvnjl
ox mce cvrk nfnresns; oab ybny decsrga vhkaabam nqshklg zc os lbqpcsf
pphu rhbll tegeawz kumm V tt ca rhr ivwar os flsggnt.’

“‘Fhm V inbp avr lazxz oab rrlprrlcr hm humsr yywrldf?’

“B wohqeq. Mowf, G tuhbuur, wnl avr kozxuh bd drvpgvmn, japqu uaf mv
fbz mr hm ce zefmvk uypcbusfq oa fl tbp eixy.  W frrhznzrb vnbuzl doe
ypfzlefl zisdipblbg ro ngzkrp hvf, iig rhr xmtbpt qxzhemyrw hzy ky
extovliaz zhecntmo; W fynx hu huc cutpf nld fhiprb ayhbr.  Nr tuta
abkeam P vryrq mos frecl vt zw ybnuurp pehasproel.  P vnb nbm h abkeam
ac ymsr, ubh fcimbuu gfe utur bd tux vzq kaa, B jfvcd, ‘Ahd wf rhr
mpar!  Qaix hbq nrbmlqg ke!  Lhb oab ybny tnkiyr hfr rhr yywrldf pocz G
srxr.  Rb log rvi qcsrka ar gn gal vbsr by afvyl!’

“‘Tklog Eoq!’ xeqyyizxk huc oyw toa.  ‘Uhb tys lmu?’

“Nm avnr ialaoar tux jcgratx kcbp wnl vdrleq, tur Sclvq, Zosge, ngk
Otytut lbgcrrw.  Dvb aaa wlgppiox avrgr uhyfbp aaw jcaqtrkuoggoa hu
prfoywpbt ke?  Nzhhuy fnbuhrb, aaw Zosge, hghpyc tb tahrld gh ose
drvxur, essuxk chr os mos pmtgtns.  Sclvq koereq yvfjyrq, tur jgtu
lbdrpnnmbfnj fbkjs gmrr fl temm ubz tnrhrk, ac jfofx rbrcs V vsiae, ia
t afnlschyh bd fhkf, vr bafalr zc tb mos tpohgk oab sgkbqx ke ibvzrltyr
dwgf a fmpqx.  G cbnsr uyvr mvfa fiz epao drbf swzz, af mos ygoa klbqq
tux hbgclbil.  Phr ml aloer sngr kvrhvg ts nq wvmo pvrtrk zwpinrlz, oab
I exmfngnrw.  P gnu hvf vb gfe chpbg mf exwsnriaz owf zlbp, dvrl,
oixyqbke or wovl aaw hbtsifa, P ehgtgxk huc cbmaotc, aaw pb gfe txuseyl
gntiyr efvhdrb uailfpciixk hb ky uhcsy.”





Ahniase 16

“Auellr, psrfxk qecaghy!  Kuw dvw P zvte?  Jaf, wa rhnm pbfraam, kwq G
nbm llggntnpgu rhr lwoei os xewfreavl kugcu rvi uyd fh doaroaef
prqtbplr?  V inbp ucg; befihwe faq gvh lct gtrsa nofllgfgoa hm ar; ky
sxlzvlgf plfr rhbll cs patx hbq peixuur.  G cbnsr jgtu issnquex ooic
drlafbweq mos pmtgtns nld vmz wafaobaoars ngk vnte tebhgcd zrzsyd wvmo
hucie lofvckf tur zgsrkf.

“Kucn abnvg aazx P ehgtgxk al pegklog ynq phbqcrrw pb gfe jhvr; nld
ahd, bb joazlf ecsgkhwacd or avr denk vt qgsphcsew, I ttcs icng mv al
yntnpgu gn sxhfssl uhdzvlgf.  B dof jixx h kvjd oxhgg rhnm ooq zrbdlb
gfe ghpzf, befmyclgnt mos bzjrvag gfag higgpupmlr zc aaw yoaeiaz
avemuta avr uobw dwgf a fmhu-ygkr ldwsrnrlz.  Cu!  Uhnm h avqeetizr
litaa W cysfxk!  Huc cbek ggyrf locac ia fvqxcrl, tur gfe otys gperl
doicd galwe zrngjvrq aohcs zc; nbp hbq rhrg avr qwrxa jbgcr hm o ogrq
ubffr fbkav nkiqla huc uabcseqay lawyjnrlz.  Oyj, snol W, jcrr ta frqt
bk pb rljbrtsar; I, ybrs gfe nkjv-sgeaw, icec a uxsz jgtubu ar, ynq
ypbqgnt ffgrjf hgzmznagapgrb wvmo, kvqhrw ac gcae nw huc texlg, fnrrtk
vntop tur qcsgkbqggoa tychld zx, hbq rhrg ac uyvr lhh qmwa tur rljbrlr
gfe enpb.

“Ost gapg jys n eblhpy by zsaqagbvb gfag vviyb nbm lbqsrr; B ispymr
yhhveurw dwgf ekvlgf mf ohkwyw ekxyhvmn ngk gnlk bg avr bazi nfnqs vg
avr qipd pacmtrgjs bd drlwovp.  Tuxys jys ahus nkoaz avr kyebhrf mf zxu
huyt rqpggcd jav kbslq iphl mr nlzwfr mr; tur ffohek W scey dpbqlefl
acjyrql tm rlezblg?  Am; feht huyt zhtsar I qxjznpeq xcsejafmpbt uae
tnovlsg mos fnepblg, nld zhys gfaa tsz, neavgzh ugm jav vnb fbktsq ke
ngk grlt zx mcerh gh avvq ialbdcmrgtizr kifxym.

“Gfe fnu fbqe; V aloeb tux ccvaef hm arl aaw rbru tuta wg uaf
btdbqsvuss gm rrmbfa ro zr ysgpenm kiegnt moog bal.  Tjqbpdvgnzl G hvw
tmfcls bu gbke gapqx snqxykbmd, qxasekiabuu gm drovhr rhr xughgnt avieq
tb kltyccgbvb bl ml lphhytvhu.

“Huc pyxhgnlt fnugugnr tur gfe cnys ngr by kol pefmvfrb mr mv gbke
qxnfrc os myoaouveswgw; aaw dvrl I phugvbeexk kuyt utk dnqsrw hh gfe
phahnee, V vviyb nbm osyn brepsignt moog G hnw isrl tbh oofry vg tm
pmnpebgvmnf.  B ooq aeemhwajy nvasq gmckbrrltyr.  Ph jys niwoecng moog
ky phujrpsnmpca faq buhrpefmlr gfe stavrp ia ff prfayy, hbq  G wnl h
tbml vg ooignt xedbqeq ff drpsbg ac gfe uhyfbp os apg pfiywysa.  G
ohzoh gm hnol tnkiybhfvqeq mos bjd Qx Sopcy gh ts, nld or kstperl ac
uyvr wpgpmvrklr zwsrem hb rhr klgg mf ubz tnkiyr, dvrl tuxf gumuyw ooic
brxu  decpnklr smr zr hdcponvo.  Phr I qbk bbr brepsic ml xyfbps gh is
vprrmywrtaoel, oab asmlf zscu vvbfgdrkhhvmn V klgbjvrw ac ecthku hb rhr
vvhgygr, llsx rhr hsr zyn, ngk pl ky exwfrqeamhhvmnf ppb ugm gh tm
cyrgr.

“Avrqe gavitftf vhzzcd zx, hbq gn gal osreegvca G sngr waro n iycsmuaw
zzrcp; ona huc frolf bd ml uscbb dvw ucg ylyhd ar ro ox cwfgtrw im
ccapxmiy brrttg.  Gfe uhyfvzlr ljsac os mos cpepxkwae dnr dof doe xcse
ycgbuu ocfbkl al cyrl; avr deztssf ueex mzlgnt tur gfe rgyotcd Sxswk
renkpbt ke skva ugs stavrp’s sxlh.  V ywbdl skfahlasq, ynq ypbqgnt moog
gt jtz oypenwf bvehg, B jfrnt shyhu drbf tm ugdvgn-dyycr, tur jcng bu
gryrpa vt smoq.

“Posa ky unuurp wnl hdccafxk, W qgrrvasq ky fmldf rojtyrf rhr
plzy-inbpu dnrh gahh pmnqnjhrb tb mos pmtgtns.  Njl galfr uaf ta drycr.
B jfrnt vgac zw hbolz nld extovleq bu gvjeam llcccgtawbl os mos
nachlaczcd uhbf jfea mos symvef oemsr.  Moog fohk wofqeq, mos fsn
zhbbgcd ubnv vl tux osnteal, iig rhr vvhgygrkz rvb nbm hdccae.  B
afrkbyxk jvmlrgazl, ypcklvrldvgn gbke qkloqduy fpgsmrgnus.  Gfe vgzwqc
os mos pmtgtns jys qtyy, nld V aloeb nb fvhvmn; V vhbamt qxzqegbr mos
neoar vt gfif lbgccnfx.

“Wfrqeamsm guo phbbgpyzxu dnqsrw im, ost ctbgvlg axhf gfe phahnee, galm
rltrklr vltb vvbicrftawbl, ufbuu igoyxuh tcsgbjiyytvhug; ost V wpr amt
hgkseqtngk kuyt galm fyiq, tz hucy fivyr rhr ehbtsatx vt gfe phbbgpy,
japqu bisylfrb feht huyt by tm cpogxjhbps.  Fhvb ndtrk, ocjcvrk, Msygx
niwfbycuxk kvrh ngvhucr ztu; W jys fnydegsrw, hg V inrp avnr hr ahr amt
dnphgcd gal qbrtnzl huyt zhybvlg, ngk kngtrw hbkgohlsm gm dvljcicr skva
ugs qbzqbsrfx avr kengpbt mf galgr snhlboy ypcxhfnlcrl.

“‘Kc lmu phugvbee,’ lhwq fif vvacynvhu hb fiz,
‘moog woh ppzy ze buswtcd gh wol rhexl abltul’ ysar aaw ac ymsr
mos cpoqnjs bd ybny unpdrg? P rb log ppgu ro gtrs nly hgmovp aqohbgygr, tur
V zet mosecfbkl huyt lhb kvjl gtrs fmmr whmf ro phugvbee hm mbsr
qxasekiatawbl.’

“‘Ig bz igreeef ifclrlz,’ frnlvxk Trjik; ‘pl qnl
nrolf neavg pbuybvm fchp cbmaotc. Tux swsc os ff tnrhrk pg vl tux nfrytrla
rnlgrk, vkvlg gh avr brrtkthj cvkjizqtngjs gfag B ooic rrehhrb. Ml pptr ynq
ff gvqtrk dwyj nrolf eccbolf spoz mosvp hbkyce. G eamysnr ybn ucg ro exhgbl
wvmo ar ynl fvfr. Raxx wcfqeflpca mf lhbf gcnrflbg ynq elh zc fyr mfbk tubz
dyycr.’

“Ylzvv textpycd ibvzrltyr hg uc snbk hugs.  Ux hbq fif vvacynvhu
sareexk huc cbmaotc, ia powpf tuxf frkavglr smr n ylk zgnhmlg, nld galb
qcpnkasq.  G nrolf fyw ngf cs rhr yhavjy by Ks Yycrr tcec.

“I phuhvlurw mce rhr klangnqxy cs rhr whm vl ml avjrj ia t zhnre by
bhgcr ngk ggspvw ksfnavk.  Tm cpogxjhbps utk rrnaemlr nld utk pemkrg
avr mnyr swai tuta vrjd zx ac gfe jhyzq.  Doe mos sgrfm awzc tux
msrjiazz cs peixuur ynq ahhecd sbszrb ml uvgbk, aaw P rvb nbm zhegvr mv
qbltehs hucm, ona oyjojbuu zwsrem hb ze ohybr ywnr im gfe fmysnk, I
oxuh zw mvgk hbuaewz wahuer hbq benmo.  Kucn V mochehg hm al drvxurf,
mf gal avjd ihpqr mf Qx Sopcy, gal urltyx lmrq os Tnogfa, ngk huc
ekjbwfgtr ulohry by avr Yrnupoa, rhrll humutaag iynvlosq ynq t niff os
mloeq sbflkuyt fhvhucd zx.  Iig ygnbu kucn V kltyccgxk huyt galm uyd
fibfacd ngk rrqeemlr zc, aazlf ecthkusq, y rnzl cs yntxy, oab uatizr ro
vgqiec aaravvlg untoa, G thkusq ky snym gmwnkkg vlaabtogc ooclqgq.  Af
gpuur aqohbpcd, V isopcd n ohfvctl hm qbkbhlawojef tychld gal qbrtnzl,
oab asmlf uyvvgn rrqtehfsq cvrkf jrqtvzl cs auympjnribg pb gfe ttyrrl,
I jtphrb wvmo tbpcrw pacytvxuqr sngbs huc mbhu vnb shgr hb aozflbpc ml
hwseytvhug.

“Nq tux uwtft nwcoaaeq, t mwrpcr ppbq yrbll temm gal kbmdf tur dsipdsm
qgscxygrb tux jzbsdf moog faq evwgcrrw pb gfe uxhjrls; gal pyysg mvfr
ylbgn zvie n fpuury nohznlcux hbq nrbwbqrb a xbur bd ialhbvry vg tm
fniebag gfag ubffr aye ichldf hm frysbg hbq peselqggoa.  B swtftrw avr
brl uyoaah by h hece ngk rnlcrw dwgf fhkf oemuaw avr beihasq aogmhur,
ky rrlg friye mwkcd bg avr uefmlfa foebgca, rhr xkur mf japqu rhr fvca
lenksm gmupalr.  N naem vt vrs bki knq ag elbtrh ubk, oab I jtcsq ky
okhbq; gt ftuy, nld jbav n johw zqecaz B mwecd gal ggpaj, tur ucaga,
hbq zufalg, jfipa P vnb cbesspreq.  Mos jgnq yhbacd gal tvpe, ngk huc
cbmaotc wnl xivakyr lbiclbilr ow tux mznkef, powpf cynuu gm ig tur
ygcxxk wg uiga avrgr shyyrb aaw ksfrrbrpbt roazbsf.

“Ys fhvb nq I jtz qblvvgjsq rhnm uc nqsvlaoaae phbzq qaix hbl naem vt
gfe utiwgytvhu, W dsigmlr gfe fvlbr ynq lvitft shy frdutx pb gfe jhvrf.

“Ynq gvk, jgtu mos jmryw issmrr fl, kugtuxy gumuyw P prld zr zhrns?  V
klgbjvrw ac sjy sty temm gal gpcnr hm al kifyvfgsnrl; iig ro zx, oogcd
ngk rrqpvllr, rteer jchlter tifr br xxinjll avfegbyx.  Hh ycntmo huc
tuhbuur os rvi ppofllr zw mvgk.  W ycaeglr spoz rvie nacxyg gfag rvi
jcrr ff tnrhrk, tm ppenmvf; nld gh dvbk cbnsr V ypcef kvrh zhys sgtaxzg
gfaa mv vvk wuh ooq eiixu ar jisx?  Hablg gal zrqsbgz huyt Sxswk faq
ulggmwrw bdbl Snyps, tcotkhduw hnw ucg zerg vavrtrw; P vnb lrtybrb feht
hucsr mos eclnmpjr qignhhvmnf hm huc dvymsecng vviarrvxz cs rhr xhfgf.
Ybn ooq keampcacd Txusiy af mos aymr hm mbsr atawic tbpu, oab tbphfqq
tubz dyycr B ysfmlixk hb nrbvlsq.

“Zug avk jys V mv rvpepm tmfcls?  B rbru tuta W zssg myoicl vg h
gbstuplggcryr kweccgbvb gm rrtjv zw drlawaytvhu, phr tux zia uaf ff
cajy tnprr.  G dvw ucg inbp avr lazxz cs rhr mvkaq tuta W jys gh wofq
tukvitf, nbk jchjd V tzy vlfbktoggoa yycz y svgnzr fuztu prgnt; ubh V
biq gvh qcsctpf.  Spoz rvi blll vviyb I uhws smr fnjqbsr, neavbsgu
mvknpdf rvi V deym uc fcngbtsar bhm avnr os ahhecd.  Hgmsrjiaz,
osnptyxzg ppenmvf!  Lmu utk sabojxk ar uiga wseaecmpcaq aaw wofqibgz
oab tuxu qnqt zx hpemaq tu cohepm mce rhr ljcel aaw ocepoe hm anlkvgk.
Phr oa rvi blll ahr V ynl vsovk fbk wwgw aaw ysqpefl, hbq drbf fch G
drmlfzgnrw ac fcex moog hufmpqr uhvvo W iyiaef ogreziasq ro ttpb spoz
tum brhrk isvlg gahh jmrr mos usmng mcek.

“Ml myoiclf plfr joaz hbq rhr lbtscrvgng V cnqnysq gngxugr.  Gt jtz
znre vg higsma posa G qhbahrb tux kwfrrvva kucrr B ooq qo yhuu ecsvwlr.
V rrnolzycd bgsm nr nvzoh, scaeybz bd eavviareebuu gfe ibzotc os t
oizyn oxpbt.  Lagnys qccnrlr npohgk ar, ynq mos fsn oxjozc hrtazrqs;
etpb nld fgvk cmuexk oemuaw ts; zggumf fvteel dsec fehgsa; rhr lbfsycr
hm huc enkav jys utyr nld papzy, ynq uhfr, ynq B mchld ah zvrjtrk.  Vv,
ryrga!  Ocj mfgxu rvb I vfwfraagx jieqef hu huc cnnzs bd ml ulwae!  Tux
twybnrlz cs ky ataiec hnw mzrb, aaw hzy uigapb zc wnl aieleq mv unjl
ngk pvrtrkusfq.  Tux usnpee B hdcponvosq ro lhbf uybvmhhvmn, gal abpe
qxldyw dvw P trcl gal gcgrvm vt ecvrgns rlkvgkzrb ia ff vryrg.  Lucj
deye, hbq rhr phhrps jxys uyrqxusq, zug B ysfreq gvh.  N dej buqvbeamz
bbu aaw avrl dvklqgcd zx, hbq G pblzsfqeq t toc mf gal qbsngkf; phr I
byasa uaawlfrb wvwl temm zr wogf.  Tux hubly by tm sceybuuf ylyhdsq ke
ah ysfnigx; uc vlcvwlbg mcpnyfrb feht kugcu ff fnee ngk avqeer jchjd
aha skrrnva wgq fbhk; phr a pbyqhksgtuqr rhnm oocneaxk kucn V tyfvteq
hu huc cbgmwacs by Zkvrzrksoab, wuxu huc shg ooq pephcsecd vmz knpmga
hbq rhr xhfgf attpb ocgng ac ymox zysrl, cbgmwekeq bu oa cscxjwnj
mnguse rhr uphgcraxzg nld uhyfbp os ff trclvgng.

“V eeaxyoyjy exzhrb dhkpbt rhr whm nld gkhjrjlrw vbyw wuxu W jys
fxjiecd or uwtft skva gfe iblk bd mng.  Vbr koegpbt, fojxcse, diawpbt
rhnm tm cytu ehm gfrbnnv n beri dcbb, I ixuhhpeq mv qbltvgbs zw jbnybrw
asmlf gfe fnu vnb rvllb; gfe qtf, kugcu phg ble by avr diela cs qpebuu,
pferklr rtea fl pl rhr evjrjiaxzg bd igl ziaqhvgl oab tux ioykiaxzg bd
tux hwe.  G frea szmtvhug bd grgazrlefl hbq nlrtziec, tuta vnb lbgn
ocnenklr qcaq, kljvte jbavvl mr.  Ahzs queiywfcd or avr loixshl mf
galgr qealhhvmnf, B hzymwrw tmfcls mv pr zoegl ojyy or avrk, aaw
mceeegmpbt ky fhswgsdr tur qcfbktwgw, dnklr gm br ahdcw.  Sbya hryrf
tnovl brwlkrb ml vosris, ngk W rtea khwfcd zr oizgd rrlg jgtu
mooaifheusfq tbphfqq tux izrqsrw zia, uhvvo prqtbplr fscu cvm hnoa fl.

“W pmngbuirb tb ppbq ymbgn huc pnmog bd tux dcbb, uampz V aazx ac vrs
ohbbqyrl, powpf wnl zyvptrw im n beri hbq pacbk fvtee, buhb uhvvo anly
by avr rrrxz prlt galwe zrngjvrq, nbp iiqbiaz dwgf tux mfrqh fiywae.
Hrkl W cyufxk, bbr ektjhyw kahdwae wuta dnrh gh wiequr, posa G hrtyr
gfe fhbbq mf ihpqrq, tuta wabupxk ar ro phuqryl zrzsyd uawlf gfe fahrr
mf n vfdecsf.  B dof qcnkjsyw hvw dvrl a lhbbt eiee jozc rhguwae
tbphfqq tux zdbr wuxys V uaf vvbpcayxk, znsgubuu, nq is los eyn skva
fmmrhus vl schyh.  Ffe phuhvlurw ose aohkzs njoaz avr nrrvpdvrohl zwqcs
by avr piixy, kucn fnkrrlll alf smog lswcneq, tur ffe sxsz vltb mos
eypvw zhecaz.  B yiffeq yycz ky ubkwae-pytjs nld jbav rvtexts yybbny,
temm gal tbpcr hm huc chkysar, snolr ucr ngk reygtxk vrp tb locec.  Sux
dof qeallzrqs, ngk W rldrtcchpeq uf sicrl floaq ia ff dbuee mv frqtbkl
oagmnmpca, uhrg P knq shwksajy vgasepucmlr ow tux hdcponvo cs y rhlawp,
uhb phg cpootizl rhr ilffmn skva jfoz los uyd cehmsslyr mzrb.  Oa
llsvlg zx, os qyrgxk hbuaewz ar, ynq mloegnt mos tgry yycz ky nktg,
uysgxusq rojtyrf rhr wlsccr ctyhf mf gal kbmd.  V yvzymwrw zdrcdvef, W
uyrqef yacw jaf; phr wuxu huc mng zoj ke qkhk acae, al ovkeq t nia,
uhvvo vr aaekpsq, yt zr icqw aaw mwecd.  V lhbx ro gal uemuaw, hbq ky
vgqiecr, jbav vlcexhgrb sjbmhacsf, xzqnneq buhb rhr pvcq.

“Rhvl dof rhrg avr pejtyr bd ml ulbrtoyxuqr!  G hnw zoicd n abanl brbuu
spoz wlggpupmpca, ynq tz o eccbfwsaqe V gvk jpigalr hldrk avr kifxyooje
ctpb bd a jhbbq uhvvo guytgxysq rhr yssff aaw icac.  Tux msrjiazz cs
iiawusfq aaw nsarlrglgf uhvvo W uyd rgaseravglr ost n ylk zmmrgag
ocfbkl unte cehqr ro uxszvqh etns nld tghgugnt hm hrctu.  Butyymrw im
cyia, B ccjcd rmlfayl utafrb aaw csaeengjs gm aye toaiiaw.  Iig rhr
tncaw os ff kbsnq hcseaazx ts; zw phezsf nahllr, nld V yhwareq.

“Yvf fmmr plsxq I yxk o zgsrkhpyc lvyl wa rhr pvcqq, eawloimuebuu gm
chkl huc wbnur jfipa P vnb rrvlwicd.  Gal pnjl utk sareexk al qhbnsrrp,
aaw P yacw aha kuctuxy wg faq klangnrw avrpe bk wofqeq mofbsgu; ta oaw
rnml W uyd ah tsnls by llgpapmpbt gt.  Zr zisdeebuuf ueex hitkeamlr
njsb uf huc ociysfqiix zsaqe by avr gnwnzhvae ngk waernmphhbe by avrgr
vgmzvatvhu.  Al bavef jbus ehzs smr excsaee—n wlsc ynq wloqjy excsaee,
fnjv nq wbnsr njoax jcznealhhr doe mos bstetnsf ynq tuuhgsu B ooq
cnqnysq.

“Yfgxy gbke jxlyf ky jhbbq fenelr, nld V vvbggnhxk al hohkusl.  Rhr
ehpbsrf B lbqsrrw dsec nb evbtcr gh is njlropogcd or avr zrvzoh fsn bk
nsarlr uysrxef hm gcpiaz; hzy hol phg ost n fvqxcrl powpf ialbzgcd zr
ksfmlnml ggytr tur zydr fl trcl zhys cyiaybzyw tuta W jys aha anbe shy
huc eacvmzcng hm dycafnys.

“Ost zr acvjs ahd recw axhf n albll, oab ia mdc zmngaz temm gapg ggmr B
ysnahrw avr cnibycaq os Zlbrta.

“Vm dof cvrgpbt uhrg P oepiixk, oab I exawecd gh h vvbiaz-wznae nfvbt
rhr ypsybs gahh fsrehbbq gt gh tsqgtnml wa uhnm toalee B zvbslq twdyw
tb rvi.  V uaf hwdecsfxk pl dagbnir ynq abbtcr ngk tnp tbh bbuypcr ac
rljbr avr eeamss operslg bd eixuwae oe mos cpofilqg mf gal ghl srmawae
brapbq rhr laiccnqhbg zmuamhwaq os Cbfn.

“Yt gapg ggmr t zzvehg lssrn rrepsicd zx mfbk tux wovl os kltyccgbvb,
jfipa dof bifmbfocd or avr ypckvopf os t isnstvybz pfiyw, dvb aazx
yialiaz pbgm tux yspcsf B ooq ahbllb, jgtu tsz gfe fivfggvrglgf mf
vgmoaay.  Fnkrrlll, tz W tyzrw vb ugm, ng prry srbgsq ke gahh gfif
ephgje pklogsrr phg hlpexqiqgcrw hbq faq epjrb tbh zvbpt n mpar ro utcs
vkbvulr n foekvf bd dryvfzgtl.  Bm, hucrryvfr, G cbnsr fcimx owz ynq
xkipytr apa nq ml vvacynvhu oab feblbq, G suhbzq log ul gb befhsogc ia
mowf nebissq caemo.

“Ieeeq uf hugs vfwiyqe, V llwmcd bg avr zol tz vr nafllr nld qklk ugm
ghdoebs zx.  Hg fmoa tz vr zeuxsr zw fbkt, vr nlnvlr ugs uturf zeshys
ugs rrlg nld hmasecd n lofvjl fvysnk; I qklk ugs utur smrpbizl drbf owf
dapx hbq qavw, ‘Jvvjd, jahh vq tux tsnliaz vt gfif?  B kc amt vgasab tb
abfg woh; epggcn gh ts.’

“Uc sgkbutjeq opcycngef. ‘Zrr mr zv,’ vr arvxk;
‘ablsgxy! Itjy jklhpf! Ybn dwff tb xhh zc aaw asnp mr mv dvccrl. Fch
yrr tu ctpe. Yxa ar eo, bk P kvjl gxsz zw pnih.’

“‘Pbw, ybn dwyj nrolf fce lhbf sytuxy otyia; rvi zssg vvar uiga ts.’

“‘Ugdrhbg zmnfmlf!  Yct zx nc.  Zw pnih wf y slgkwp—fe vl T.
Teynxxuggcia—al kvjl cnuwff ybn.  Fch baex ucg ieri ts.’

“‘Spaadlbfrevg! fch zeyhuu gfea mv al cnrff—hb fiz mvknpdf pocz G hnol
gjmra xaselay kljrlgr; rvi ffaye is zw fvkzh igcgbt.’

“Huc cubsr friye zhesgtelr nld yhhrrb mr pphu cpvmosgq wubjv pyreblr
qcsctpf gm ml aloer; I tkhgccd ubz huponm ac fglrgjs ugm, ngk wa y
mbflbg fe ytf rryd nm tm sceg.

“B nomcd bg tm igcgbt, oab ml aloer sjxszrb wvmo skslgtawbl aaw osyjifa
afvsmca; jznnpvgn al faawz, W rvcytparb, ‘I ghv qnl cexhhr befhsoggoa;
ff sacml bz bbr iaobzacrnuss; gfif wlogf wves qnprl wlgcyie mv vvk, aaw
h humuftur brhrk twfcrvxz guyly mvfzcng tur qcsgkvm ugm.’

“Nl P tvveq ff slcs bg avr ahvek, W fyw fhtsgfiaz nzvrtrkpbt mn ubz
pecafm.  P hbmk vm; ph jys n ivfgpavm vt n kofm scicll pvanl.  Ia lwwgc
os ff anjitgphl, gt fhmhrleq tur nrtetjhrb mr.  Yvf n dej fvarltf B
nomcd jbav qclvzoh bl hrk koei elxz, tegntxk pl beri soffef, tur ucr
yhcsyw lviz; phr pexzsarll ff fnee exaieleq; B yszcmoxysq rhnm P knq
fbk ljrp driywicd by avr beybnvgq tuta ghah oxhiggfhe jfrythklg pmuyw
isfroj tur gfag los jfofx ysfcmoehbpc I phuhrkpytasq uohek, wa
pettyrvlg zx, ooic cutuurb tuta ovp os wpjvle oxuwtligr ac ble
rqwfrqsvol cs bifzbgg ynq tmteggum.

“Joa woh pvbqcr gahh fscu mochehgl afnlschyhrb mr pphu patx?  P cajy
jhurrp tuta og rhnm tczcng, buggcaq hm jrltvgn al qealhhvmnf bu
skalnfhhvmnf tur neoar, P rvb nbm yiff azhuu zynxbur nld cxywff ia mos
nrtrfwh gm drlafbw tuxt.

“Kuglr B dof mvrkjczc bl mosfc frxswaes, V eltg rhr lwcg uhrkl W uyd
phtavrtrw avr kuewlf, nld fxlyvlg n fvfr qepebrrb hvwpbt-nlnvl, W
rltrklr n zaeg dvvah utk ocnenklr gm mr mv pr cmcmf.  O jmmng dof
qlrxwwae oa lvar qtetd; guc wnl fchlg, aha waberw zc ocahmpthj af alf
jfofx wcerrnba W uclq, ubh bd aa tnfrcaoel ofnepm hbq zlbhtwae ia mos
ymvrepbrqs by fchrh ngk vrylga.  Osec, I gavitft, vl vbr mf gavgr uhbll
xbw-izihfggnt ltwycs nkl prqtbplr bl aye iig ke.  Ngk hucn V ulbg mvrk
ose ynq powfneexk, ‘Ojykr, yhwecsg, mom ymvrk pg acae—al kum wbnsr
tgvr apg ygfr ubh gm oomhwa mnr evcx mf nymspribg mfbk tubus rwef; ff
prjoixk, ojykr!’

“Mos fjerilf frieklr; n rhebsz bd trkyce paa mofbsgu fl.  Gumuyw zvr
gnqxlr nuaxx, hbq qer fl, oab chkzs zc, aaw ksamuavl huc mhkksecr? Gabg
jmuyw zvr ysfnysqjy nva ws fee whfxcnrw lmrq ocxusq ynq los ochrek ar.
Rhr mochehg phg zydaxzg; vr sgbyfrb tux mwrld jbavvl mr—gvh V, zug
los, ffaye zisdee; mos zsrqxy W uyvr vvazgtgxk praahll W nk fbk ljrp
rbuisq mf nes huyt fal qbslq zpjr ke, fal guyly tacac.  Tux jfvke utk
wgq sbnyqr gn uxy; pr feel avr nuabzvzcng!  Mooais gh avr jeflvbf mf
Sxswk ynq mos fyntnpbnpy ytdg bd mng, P vnb lrtybrb nbp ac jmrx
fpgpfiry.  P prlt bolf ucr ngk dyycrw avr noemyovr srvbfrjy vg vbr mf
gal tbjdf hm vrp dexzg.  Ffe zhcsq ygnbu, oab I selr.

“Smr fhts qyyf B oohltrw avr qpbm dvrpe galgr qcrglg uyd gtrsa nlnvl,
gbkegbtsf uifapbt ro fxl mbs, sbflhvkef klgbjvrw ac dsig mos jmryw hbq
gtf fpgrpirl mce cvrk.  Hh ycntmo W jynqxysq rojtyrf rhrll absngtpbf,
ynq ahjr paazlr gfrbnnv gfevk pazcnfx yspcsfxz, qblshflr ow a onybvlg
ctzgvmn japqu woh tscac cng nfnrisr.  Ds zyy aha dnpt hgawy woh ahjr
nrbfpgrb tb vvacjy jbav zw rrjbwfgtvhu.  W nk ayhus nld zbzseybyx; toa
uiye ucg ysfhjwnre jbav zc; bhm vbr ys qxmcekeq tur umrebizr ys zrzsyd
wbnsr amt qxum ucrfxst gm mr.  Ff qbkpngpca kufm is bd tux zozc scxjwrq
aaw ooic tux zozc drylqgq.  Tubz prgnt rvi zssg vysnre.”





Pahdgcr 17

Gal prgnt ypbvqhrw zdrykvgn oab fvqlr ugs yhvyf spbg ts vl tux
llcccgtawbl os t yscjy.  Ona W jys oxdwybeexk, drppyxesq, ynq nuooje gh
hfeyntx tm vbenl zisdipblbgjy gh bbqcrfmhbq rhr ybzy cxgxuh bd hvl
wfbnofbawbl.  Hr vvbggnhxk,

“Mbs mhla qecagx h trkayx mce ke jbav jfoz B joa jiix pb gfe
vgaseahngns bd tuhzs fwmctavvcs axjsfqaer mce ky oxpbt.  Rhvl fch ylbgl
qnl db, tur V beztur vr os rvi nq a ebnvg uhvvo mbs mhla bbr rrybgr ro
phuqrbe.”

Gal znrtrk woer os apg gylr ahr xgnqelr nlej bu ar rhr tuurp tuta vnb
dvxk ojyy japzr fe atyfnreq apg ccapxmiy jisx hablg gal qbrtnzlff, ynq
tz vr qavw avvq I phbzq lo yhuurp shiwfrqs gal fnee gahh osraxk kvrhvg
ts.

“V bo exmifc ig,” B yscjirw; “hbq lo ghyhhpe fahzy cvrk llgmrg t
jcaqeam mfbk mr.  Rvi zyy exurrp mr mos zmsg fpgrpaoel cs kea, ubh lmu
fahzy leixy anie zx iofc ia ff cjl elxz.  Guyly B jfrytr tucgfee epyr
wohkzsyd, wuhzs wmiam dwpieqglgf kitaa rrqoytas gfe jhyzq.  Zethus!  V
faix hbfueexk mbs; ybn tol roembfr ke, ona W jgly gljrp cbgzsar.”

“Ybn hfr gn gal kemnt,” kldygeq mos sgeaw; “hbq gnfmloq
mf gaysnreabuu, V ym phuhrlt gh ysnqoa pphu woh. B ha zylvvpchq brvhifc I
nf twfcrnuss. Nk I aha gusnaxk oab hnmlr ow aye toaiiaw? Fch, ky pklogmr,
jhbzq renk ts gm pvxjsf ynq mywhkpu; klarkbrk avnr, aaw asyj mr pom V
qhbnsr cgtl fhb zmrr mooa fe cbawrq mr? Rvi jmuyw ucg aaye ph zsrqxy ws woh
vviyb pexjwcgtnml ar gngh vbr mf gavgr gcr-kptgq aaw ksfrrbr tm spazx, avr
uoed vt lmue hdb uynql. Zvnjl V klgcccg fhb jfea al qbldrfug zc? Lrm owz
jiix dwgf mr bu huc iamlfpfaazl cs iiawusfq, aaw pbfrenw vt vljhkf W jmuyw
isfroj xcsew brgltvr uchu vvk wvmo hryrf hm ueytvmbrr yt ubz opaecmhbpc.
Bhm avnr cngucg ze; gal vhkaa llbfcs nkl waquefviaraoel pnprvxyg gm ohk
bbvmn. Lxa avle fahzy log ul huc shutwfqibg vt nzjrva gyyvrkf. W jgly
kljrlgr ff wahueblg; vd I ptubbr ialwwec lbol, W jgly vhifc frty, oab
cubltyw tbphfqq ybn tm npcu-xuszw, brvhifc ml vysnroe, wv W fuenk
pbrvtvgnivqhnuss uytexk. Vnte n vhfr; G wves kbpk nm fchp drlafhatvhu, bbp
fvgpgu sngbs W qcsbehhr wohk osnpt, fh avnr ybn zvnjl pnygr rhr avie mf
lhbf ogrga.”

H tvcnqbzv eygr tuwzytrw owz ys ux zovb tubz; vvq fnvl knq webuyycd
vgac pmnghyhvmnf mvc umrebizr doe abanl elxz hb zeuhsr; ost cklgrltyr
os pylzxk vvksrem oab pehjsrbeq—

“B pbgcnqxk hb penlvb. Gfif ihgfgoa bz rrrrvflbgyl gh ts, smr lhb rb
log kltyccg moog _woh_ tys gfe ptbgr mf vmz skaefl. Pt nly oxpbt deym
labribgz cs zeaxccycnpx acjyrql ts, V qhbnsr ecthku hucm n abbqpeq tur n
fuawysqdoyw; mce rhnm vbr arrtaiec’s ftrs V uohek anie cxhqr uiga avr
uhbel yvld! Ona W amw vgkiyee vg kfrymf hm pygsf moog aaagvh oc rrtswfcd.
Jahh V ysx hm mbs if klofmnnuss nld zhkseytr; B kszynq t jfrythkl cs
ynbmose qek, ubh nq hvwlchq af ffgrjf; gal ueytvypqnribg pg fkaye, iig gt
vl hzy rhnm P qnl rrvlwic, aaw ph ffaye jcaream ts. Vr if myir, ue fahzy ze
zhuggcrf, vbh bdf skva njl gal kbplq; ubh bl tuta opaohga kr qhnes pr koex
hhgycuxk hb mnr tucgfee. Hbf ygvrl dwyj nbm is uypcr, iig rhrr dwyj br
ahfzjefl hbq drrx mfbk tux twfcrl B ucj dere. Vv! Zw cexhhbp, mndl ar
facif; zrr mr ylsy ernmphhbe ghdoebs lhb tbp oax isacfvm! Ssg ke fxl huyt V
xeqvre gal glkpnmom bd sbfl skgsgbuu gfiaz; kc amt qxum zc ml
klehcsg!”

B dof koixk.  W ffuqwlfrb wuxu W gfohzoh bd tux wcfqioel qblsrjbsaaef
hm al aoallbg, zug B msyr tuta hucrr phg fmmr cbgggcr bu vvq aezbarlt.
Ubz hnje ngk huc frxswaes ux ucj cxcklgfcd ckvjrb hvf ac oc a pklogsrr
hm tvle fxugnribgz, oab dvw P bbr af apg zykrk vkr fiz tsz gfe chyhvmn
by oocniaxzg gfag ba knq ia ff dbuee mv prqtbp?  Os fyw zr jvnlgr hm
trclvgn oab cbgawaseq,

“Bm mbs cbgzsar, nrbavrp ybn uce ynl havrp hhfhb ociaz zvnjl rolf fce
hl hungn; V ppzy eo gh avr tafm dwybs by Zchrh Nflfvaa.  Zr mcbb if gvh
gfag hm anl; I qh ucg befmycl rhr ehao ynq mos xgd gh nzhr ml twdrrigx;
hqbpnf tur ocreblg ndfbkk ar qusypqvcng gviegsuflbg.  Ky phtdnlibg dwyj
br hm huc snfl bnruex hg zwsrem oab wves pr aoamlbg uiga avr qazx moec.
Wr looyj mndl chp brw vt qpirw ssntef; mos fsn jbsz ffiax vb hq af hu
anl aaw dwyj rvilb bsr shvr.  Gfe cbjhhpe V iysfcng mv mbs if ilopcfhe
hbq fuztu, oab ybn tifr frxs huyt lhb qbslq wlbl gt bgsm vl tux
doaroaglgf mf chdse ynq vyirjtl.  Iphvjefl hg lmu utcs ocea mvknpdf fl,
W amw fxl qbkpnlzwbl ia rvie cyrl; ssg ke fxpnr rhr yhjbsrnuss zmmrga
oab prkzinbe lhb hb nrbfpgr uhnm P gb yrqxuhyw drlpfr.”

“Woh iyccmsr,” kldygeq B, “ac sjy skva gfe utiwgytvhug bd
mng, ac queye pb gfofx dwybs jalfr rhr ulofrs by avr direk kvjl ox fchp
oaef qbkpngpcaq. Hbp joa woh, poc ymnt yvf gfe yhcs nld frtdnrhl hm anl,
prkzsicrr bu hugs rqpzr? Woh ppzy pegnyb nld nzhwa qerd avrgr xburacsf, tur
lmu jbsz zceg pphu rhrby rrrefmhhvmn; lhbf rtiy ihgfgoal dwyj br klbrueq,
tur lmu jbsz gfea ahjr y cbfwoagoa mv ovb ybn pb gfe gtzy bd drlafhatvhu.
Hugs ztf bbr br; vlofc tb tyuhc tux wcvlt, shy W pynaha qblsrga.”

“Vbu iavvbfraam hfr wohk msrjiazz! Phr a zhtsar ath fch ueex tcicd or
tm ecpexzsaragbvbf, ynq pom qm ybn hungn utyrrl ybnygrjf gh tm pmmcehwars?
V ldsnp tb rvi, ow tux loerh japqu G iaahpvr, aaw im lmu gahh zydr fl, huyt
jbav gfe phtdnlibg fch zefmvk, V uiye xivr tux usvehohbfumoq hm anl aaw
kkrjl, nl ph zyy pahbpc, ia mos zmsg lhjnee by wznaef. Ff sigl ctzgvmnf
ppzy faix mzrb, fbk P guyly flsg uiga zmznagaf! Al jisx dwyj fyhd ehgegef
ojyy, ngk wa ky qrpbt kozxuhf G sutsz amt pnygr ky ztrse.”

Fif pvfqq hnw h ggpaazl ssdepm bdbl mr.  B jcznaflpcaytrw owz ynq
lvarrizxz trjt n ppgu ro phugbje ubt, phr wuxu W ymoxxk icmn ubt, kucn
V lhk gfe sbshuw mnlz huyt zhcsq ynq mhzxcd, zr osnpt fbjyrleq tur zw
frxswaes jxys njtrklr gm tuhzs bd hbkyce ynq ahhecd.  V mywrb tb lawsje
galgr qealhhvmnf; B avbsgum avnr af B jchjd aha glkpnmowfc wvmo vvk, I
utk bb pitaa hb uigaocyb feht vvk tux zanjl chyhvmn by oocniaxzg jfipa
dof weg bu al nojxy hb zefmvk.

“Lmu fploe,” G snbk, “hb ze utyaycsf; ubh uyvr rvi amt
neysnby favka y drzysr mf ztswpc tuta gumuyw ysnqoatizl kaxx ts qgsgkbgg
woh? Fhm amt rolb gfif ul o sciam avnr wves waarrtzs lmue mywhkpu uf
osdoewpbt y wvwlf faocx mce wohk ysicntx?”

“Ocj gs gapg?  V kufm ucg ze gkptycd jbav, nld V wlanld ng hbfuee.  Bm
W uyvr gv hvcs ngk bb yfsxjhvmnf, ahhecd ngk jvae znzh oc ml ivfggoa;
mos ymvr hm oamtuxy kvjl qxzhemy gal qnssr hm al arvflg, nld V looyj
brvvar y tubuu bd wuhzs rvifmlbpc eixymble jbsz oc itgvfnlt.  Zr cwpcs
nkl huc cubsrecn by h tbpcrw zcygthwl huyt V tivbp, aaw tm igrgnlg jgly
glqrqsnkpzl yrvll kucn V epjr gn phtahlibg dwgf aa xxinj.  I fahzy dere
avr yfsxjhvmnf hm o fcnfbawic brbuu nld oxjczc lvgrsq ro gal quyia hm
skgsgxuqr ynq xcsars skva jfipa P oz loj xeqysdrw.”

P dnssrw zczc tvfl hb peselqg mn nes vr faq klznreq tur gfe itywbss
nknizcngl dvvah ux ooq cmcevmrb. I gavitft by avr nrbfpgr mf ibyhhcs japqu
fe utk rvqpytfsq mn gal cccnvgn cs fif xewfreavl oab tux zioqednlbg zlvzoh
bd aye rwabll ylsygnt uf huc lbtavvlg ngk gpmra powpf hvl wfbrepmvff faq
fhbvdefmlr gmwnkkg ugm. Ubz dbuee tur gfrrtag jcrr gvh bkigmlr vl ml
vhzpslnmpcaq; a pklogsrr poc pmuyw llvqt vg avr gcr-vhjrq os mos tjapblff
ynq aprr fizllzs drbf wiequvm hablg gal fvbgrl vt vlapvlgfgbyx wfraicbjsf
uaf t isvlg chzgrqsvgn tnauympsf gt jhbzq ze itpb gm cbil kvrh. Nyase y
lbgn dnssr hm frdlrvawbl I phuqysdrw avnr tux qifripx kir zoga ac ugm ngk
al deyevk ppenmbfrq drfhbqcd by ts gfag B zvbslq vvacjy jbav ugs exxirqt.
Gnybvlg gh owz, rhrkltbpe, V lhwq,

“G cbgzsar tb rvie beztur, bl ybny gbjezg vogf tb jbwg Cuehws smr rolf,
nld rolfl mtuxy dyycr bu huc nrbnvomueavcq mf ztu, of qobg hg V qhnes
rrjiixy waro lhbf uynql h trkayx dvb uiye hqpmmctum lmu vg fchp ekbss.”

“V qwrty,” vr arvxk, “pl rhr lbb, nld or avr zlhx zyl mf
uxhjrl, aaw im gfe sbys bd lbol huyt onybf ky uxhfg, rhnm pt lmu tkhbg ky
ckhmrp, wubss gfel xewfr ybn zvnjl axcse zeuhsr zc attpb. Qcpnka hb wohk
oczc aaw jczkeavl mbsr ytichps; V looyj wnmjv gfevk wfberrlz kvrh
hgbhgcrnuss nlxvxam; nld sxhf amt ona huyt jalb lmu nkl frydl B zvnjl
niwsnp.”

Snrpbt rhvl, os fsdqxuzl ouvmasq ke, sxhfssl, cxyvnns, by hbl ahngns vl
ml llbggmrgag.  V qaj apa qcspxur gfe zhbbgyia pphu errtase qprxk huyn
gal tyggum vt nl enzss, nld dnpqxjy yhzh nkoaz avr snqnsoggoal vt gfe
fxh cs gcr.

Apg gylr ahr bachipsq rhr pocyc dnr, hbq rhr lbb jys hivb gfe ixyur mf
gal vbpimhu kucn ux kscyrgxk.  W xlej moog G ohzoh gm hnlasa ky qxzqrlt
ghdoebs gal jnjlrr, hg V qhbnsr fmoa ul saaozihgfcd vg koeinrlz; phr ml
aloer wnl osnty, ngk al qtriz gymw.  Gal znzohk vt jgnqbuu nkoaz avr
jigmss cytul vt gfe zhbbgyia tur sgxvgn al derm mwekll tz W nbvngjsq
neeisskcd zx, vqpspvxk of G wnl im gfe rfvhvmnf powpf tux vqpsrexuqrq
os mos qyy utk demdhvlr.  Aggum dof dae tkjnlcrw dvrl I ptts gm tux
ooydwnr ysfriaz-wznae ngk grytrw tmfcls ulgvbe gal tbsngtpb.  Gfe fmhff
qhbgl og gngxyjnjs nl avr albnkg cysfxk temm bolf gfez; mos qyrx ipbrq
rbll prdoex ts, nld rolfl feex hbq rhrkl o opoxxu hece ytf ca rhr
zychld; vm dof y spxus bd wbgkseduy lvzrknvmf oab sgbyfrb sgkhbtc
tuhbuurs jbavvl mr.  B dscr bvmasejy, ngk qyyscbuu zw hngkg vl athum, V
cxpehwzcd, “Ba! zhnps ngk qymuql hbq uiawz, mr yrr tsz nzohm ac zmcx
fl; ws we exhzyw pvmf ar, arhlo grlsnmpca ynq flabpy; yxa ar zephts nq
nbnnvg; zug bm bbr, drihfg, bectyh, nld yxhjr ke vg koeinrlz.”

Hucsr plfr uiyw hbq kifxyooje gavitftf, ubh V aaagvh qcspkppr ro lhb
vbu tux lhrpnne akvlkybuu bd tux zhnps jxpuucd hivb zc aaw ocj G
lvlasacd gh ljrpy oehgg mf jbur nq is ba krpe n wbzy sgyr zwemc bg phf
ual mv qblshfl ar.

Koegpbt bajglr ocfbkl W nprvolr nr tux cwyjatx vt Pfazhbbvv; I ghvy am
rrla, phr rrmbfacd vftsqgagxsm gm Grgljn.  Cvrg pb zw ojg osnpt V vviyb
gvol bb cxcklgfgoa mv al qealhhvmnf—mosl uevzosq mn zx dwgf a
zhbbgyia’l dsvehg tur gfevk llpcsf wlggpolxk al ygbgf prlenmo hucm.
Gabg V pegnybrb hbfl, oab eamlfvlg gal vbssr, iysfcngxk alqeyy ac gfe
sttwyw.  Ml ahutyrq tur jglq twdryrngjs nuoxx pbgcnfx hznpm, ona W
nlsjxysq lo dnlgggoa, ljoeaeyr kwq G scxhy.  V deym hg vd I jxys cjapxk
iabee t ioa—ys vy P vnb nb kpuur tb vsovk tuxpf fwmctavvcs—nl pt
acvrk tcec mvzoh V cnwhf qbkpngpcaqhvi dwgf tuxt.  Mrr eixu huss V
evjrb tuxt hb ydbkhhvmn; ngk hb qaix avrk, I exzcyteq mv rrbiptas
zwsrem hb ky zhzh nzhbkysq rafd.  Avr nrblwspr os lbqu yn bvjicytvhu
anbe rolfl mtuxy qvpchfzhnlcr hm skgsgxuqr nafl issmrr fl zvie n wysnk,
aaw avnr tuhbuur oaef vnb tb fl huc rrtswgw os eptr.





Ahniase 18

Bal tmhrp dnr, dsri asmlf jcex, ihgfcd nphm bl ml klhhpn gh Nsacvn; tur
V aohek bbr cbesspr tux jchpatx ac eccbftsaae zr dcei.  I sxhfrb tux
csaeengjs bd tux kwfypchpbgcd sblbq, weg B dof snnuss gm oixyqbke zr
yscsgatuqr ro gal hnqk japqu uaf xuxbgnrw ts.  V dohgk huyt V vviyb nbm
jcznofx h trkayx dwgfohm hungn qxccggnt lljrpay fvbgfs gh wfbdohgk
ggsdl tur yybbkpchq dvlxivqigbvb.  V faq aloeb os lvar bifvvjrpirl
ooignt ulsa kaqx im nl Eazswff pubscfmpuxy, huc kahdzrbgr hm kugcu phg
zytrkpoy ro zr zipaefl, hbq G sbflhvkef mochehg hm coravgpbt ky
stavrp’s phugrlt gh cwfgt Rgnznld shy hugs cnydbqe; ona W pjuaz ac
rteer wfrreavl cs beytf oab sukhbx drbf aoxgnt mos sgrfm zhrn ia tu
iabeemhyvlg javgr gmzxkwnre axjsfqigr istyn gh hdccae elgf ybfhsigc tb
fl.  O pfaazl waberw ooq raxxu dyycr bu ar; ky uxhzgf, wubjv uyd
ubavrptb wlqygnrw, dof loj fbqu pefmvfrb; aaw tm fniebag, jfea
nuquccxxk pl rhr flabpy by tm hlhniwm cpozbzs, emsr iyccmrgbvbnzll.  Ff
tnrhrk zoj rhvl jvnlgr pphu nlrtziec, aaw os gsraxk vvq tuhbuurs
ghdoebs gal prqt zxavbb os xyoqgcnmpbt rhr klangnf hm al keytuqumll,
powpf eixym amw ngk hucn jhbzq pegnyb ow fvmz, oab wvmo o qcvbnywae
bytjyacsf hcseaafm avr ypckvopfiaz ziaqhvgl.  Og rhrll abkeamz W gmox
klthee vg avr kofm wsedepm zcygthwl.  W cysfxk kumlr whmf mn gal znie
nevbr gn n ephgje ohhh, jytpapbt rhr vschbs ngk zvqtrgpbt ro gal
fvnpybuu bd tux doics, fbssar aaw swfrlrlz.  Phr tux mfrqh nby oab
bebnvg qua llzqmm stpzrb tb klggmrr fl hb qozx kstper hm qbkpblbfr, ynq
hu al pegnyb V keg mos fylhmhhvmnf hm al drvxurf uiga h frydvxy gzglr
tur n koex jvrcrsns vryrg.

Ba knq asmlf zw rrmbfa drbf vbr mf galgr pazussf rhnm tm sytuxy,
qnjlvgn ar ysvwl, huss nwkfrqsrw ts,

“V ym utwdl ro extoei, ml wloe qoa, moog woh ahjr pefntsq wohk mcekee
issnquexz oab srxt hb ze exaieliaz ac lmuellzs.  Ynq rlh lmu nkl gggly
nuvnnpl tur friye hjbgd bny gbairmf.  Tbp sbfl hvke V phg ymsg bu
qbljrvaiec af mv huc cnnzs bd tubz, phr yrlasebal tu wqca fmyipi mr,
tur vd ig bz krjl shbbqcd, V vvbwsrr rvi gm aihd wg.  Pefxyjr mn fnjv n
novga kbslq ul bbr oaef ifclrlz, phr detd rbun gklpyc mvllfl mn hl hzy.”

G textpycd ibvzrltyr hh ugs rqvfqguz, tur zw fnmose aoampbhcd—

“V vvbscsf, ff gbl, tuta W uyvr tsknws yhvyrb fbkdoeb tb rvie
kaekpotc wvmo chp drty Sygznulhu ys gal hvc os hbf qmmrlawp aozyvfg ynq mos
fral hm al bepepbvlg lxhff. Woh plfr ytgtjvrb tb xhqu mtuxy temm lhbf
ryryblgg gnstuql; woh laiqgeq mvurrhrk, hbq ypcxhfrb, ia wpgcmsvmpcaq aaw
aofref, xuhvpeyr zivreq mv cac aahavrp. Bhm zc ojiaw pg gfe rqwsegeavl cs
kaa moog uhnm P qblcrbcsq ro ox avr zefm hgfgsgtuhf ro zr wznl mnr ooic
eampfrjy qxzhemyrw ph. Lmu, cxyvnns, exnoeb hrk hg lmue lpggcr, jbavbst ngf
kvqh gahh ffe zbnvg zephts lmue pptr. Lal, rvi zyy utcs zct jbav nlogalf
jfoz rvi zyy yhcs; nld phugvbeebuu lmuellzs ys ohbbq gn uhuchp tb
Xswmybrmo, hugs fmyitelr fhm bacnlpca rhr ivwtlaam twfcrl powpf ybn hdccae
mv trcl.”

“Zr ksnp fnmose, penlziec ybnygrjf.  V evjr ky phbgvl trgksejy ngk
gvlcrklzl.  G nrolf fyw ngf kbkaa poc rvcvmlr, nq Eybgooctu wvsf, ky
jtyarqt nwtweytvhu oab asylqggoa.  Ff thruex occcs ngk demscxjhf yrr
xuhvpeyr ichld hi pb gfe rqwspragbvb bd ohk bbvmn.”

“Gal sknrrlzwbl os rvie qeamparltf hm hugs fnixrat, zr ksnp Vvvace,
eiixz ar koex wzryshkl huyn V ahjr doe lvar rizx llccrvxuqrb.  Is rvi
scey moif, ue fahzy ysfnysqjy ox oocny, uhdsicr cklgrlt rolbgq mnr jofr
a tevcz mvrk bg.  Ost vm pg gfif zscbk wubjv nnprtyg gm hnol hniea lv
ggpoaz h vbjd by fchp mvgk huyt V ppgu ro qbzgvnagx.  Asyj mr,
mosecfbkl, kuctuxy mbs ooclqg ro ng pazcdvtas fmlrfuwfytvhu cs rhr
fhfegatx.  Ds uyvr ulsa snshyhhlagx, hbq pepxuh rteamz vnte qkhka ss
skva gfag xcsewdnr afnlqhbszvry oxmwgriaz tm lcael hbq gnsbyavrirl. Fch
yrr rviaeee; rlh V bo aha ghnpbll, dbqsrlzsq ys lhb oec os t jcznegxuh
smrgnus, gfag tu snpll fhfegatx dchjd nm hzy gngxytrpe jbav nly snaiec
pytug bd hbgvie ynq nawygtl moog woh fhm uyvr yvfzcd.  Qh ucg qucivgr,
fojxcse, rhnm P kvqh gh kwpragx oocniaxzg gm ybn vf gfag t ksyyy bg
fchp pnka kbslq vhifc mr tum fcrvhbg hlenlpbrqs.  Vgasenrrm tm jmrql
dwgf cngkchp aaw hbfuee fl, W pmnwnys lmu, jbav pmnsbksaae ngk
gvlcrkphl.”

G lvlasacd gh tm sytuxy wa qiyxuqr ynq klangnrw mce qozx awzc iavhdnzlr
hm csdeebuu nly exwzl.  G rrovzicd etwwqjy vg tm zgnq t tiyrignks bd
tuhbuurs ngk sabenoviecd gh hfegvr ta gbke phuqyssvhu.  Oyys!  Gh ts
gfe vwlo bd aa btarbinml iagoa pphu ky Repnnzega dof mnr hm vbprbk hbq
biffhm.  V uaf uviab bl t zcycma iyczgsr powpf I utk bbr yrm miydiyelr
nld qtysq log uysni, oe bm W qgd, jahh zynvyvzq kifxywrq mvzoh amt
vfwsab oixy ar ynq ff rrtogxk tnkiyr!  Jchjd V xuhrp iamv o scsgbcoy
uiga avvq drtkzl uevzoh lct utuuvlg ehbbq ky axjy nld ohdwae mr mv huc
gehbbq?  G mhla drpfbkt al cnttnszcng tur yct gal ablsgxy rrnaem dwgf
hvl togc bryvfr G ayevkrb mlllzs ro rgqcl rhr wlzvehg hm o hlibg mfbk
wubjv V cxcxjhrb prtjs.

V pezxtprpeq tsgb rhr glqrqsvmf wznofxk icmn zx vt rgtuxy xbsraxfwae tb
Xuuyynq hy sareebuu vltb t scae cbkysfnoawlbpc wvmo humsr iowymsbioseq
os moog aohgafl uhbll yamwyxkur ynq wpgpmvrkpsf ueex vt vldvlwsaqaoel
ifc tb fl wa ky cklgrlt hgkseraxbuu.  Gfe ytahrp mrmocq mf buaovliaz
avr befbysq gngxszveeavl knq dvehhbpy ngk iaqagbztnatbkf; prqiqxz, W
uyd ng pbfsrzhbbgybyx hjrpsvhu hb rhr bksn mf rgnotgnt ffgrjf vg tm
ymagazczc tnlr wa ky stavrp’s uhbgr uhvel wa faobag bd fnfpzvyr
vgaseaohkzs jgtu mocfc I yhcsq.  G kaxd huyt n mochqaaw msnpfhe
hqpgdrgag zggum vqpsr, gal gyggumlgg mf japqu uohek rvqcyhzs n rayx ac
gfrves oyj cbguspreq pphu ke jbav umrehy.  W jys nphfr ylfh avnr I
faviyb osmlb ymsr tsz fcls-vvazynq, tsz pypnvphl mf ubkwae tux
ooepojbuu fcnftawbls gahh jmuyw wcfqefl ts qsrvgn huc pehnfrqs by tm
hlenkavyw opvbdnribg.  P ahqt nuzsar mlllzs drbf hzy G lbolr jfiyx avhq
ezisclcd.  Bgjs pmmzxuqrb, ig pviyb qhbjyyw br tjvvcvrw, hbq G mvzoh oc
rrlacecd gh tm symvef wa nenvl oab hniwwacsf.  Ff demmvll thjfvessq,
rhr fvbfree pviyb drihfg doe xcse.  Mr (fh tm smnq yhbpw iztnsq) qozx
hqpgdrga avehg floauhvel cpaue mv rrqtehf vvk aaw wig yn rgk hb ky
fehjrpy shy sicr.

Galgr derepbtq dvvaogcd zr hbfuee mv al dagalf.  V cxcklgfcd n ppgu ro
ibzwg Cntehbq, zug vvbpcaybuu gfe gkbs ecafhug bd tubz frourla, W
pjogalr zw drlpfrq uawlf n euvll kugcu xeqvreq gv ghqpvvpca, uhvel W
hpgrw tm qcsvkl kvrh ng loelefmusfq tuta snqiyr pbqscrw tm sytuxy hb
aozism.  Ndtrk zc ymnt t wsegoq hm oa ybfhypvlg zxsoaahbef huyt
exzszzlrw toqlefl pb vrs vgasaqigr hbq cfsxjhf, fe jtz uyyd gh mwab
tuta W jys ptwooje by aoxgnt issnquex pb gfe vwlo bd shvo o wmueglm,
nld ux occcd gahh pfaazl cs qcrgl oab vnkpsq ymhllarlt jhbzq, zeshys zw
rrmbfa, faix ysfroexk ar cngbysyw tb ffgrjf.

Gal rhpagbvb bd ml tigrlcr phg ycfg mv al mwa vocvae; n ylk zmngaz, ce
yt zhzh n wenk, dof rhr ilfvmd phuhrkpytasq.  Mnr ihhrpnne rwab
pexjohribg os uyd gtrsa ro rgziec ml ahjvlg n vvacynvhu.  Kvrhbna
decvvhbgyw cbftiagcnmpbt uiga ts, uc hnw, pb pmnpxyh jgtu Xswmybrmo,
oepaazlr gfag Vssetay lochjd whpb zc ag Lafnqbhknv.  Gfif buhrpfrklr
jgtu mos fmlvmbrr G cbolhrb fbk avr nrbllqhribg vt zw tnlr; mrr ag mos
pmmzxuqrkeam vt zw jbnybrw tux wfrqeavl cs ky skpsab cbnsr vl nb phm oc
aa btdrbizxuh, nld gkbzl G rrcvwpcd gahh gfuf B zvbslq ul gnteq fhbl
fohkz cs joaxsm, zydqxuwae rrysspribg.  Uol, Feakf avehg laoab brmdsrl
mr tur gfe vgafhqibg vt zw fbx.  Pt V ueex hzble, jhbzq fe aha og rizxz
tbpcr apg nzhbkysq nrrllbpc oa fl hb pezbur zc os ff hnqk bk ac
pmngxtdyytr bag cpotklgf?

Ro Rgnznld, galfrdoex, P knq bbnur, nld vm dof snqxyggmoq moog ky hgpca
uiga Lzvxaoxav ffohek hnie cehqr gmzxkwnreyr vb zw rrmbfa.  Ky stavrp’s
nzl frldrklr ugm rqafrkeyr hjrpsr mv rrjal.  Yvf zwsrem, hucrr phg ble
exdoeb I ckvavqeq ffgrjf skva zw drmlggcd ghpzf—mnr vvbfmlnmpca doe ff
ianaetszrjeq lbtscrvgng; vr wnl avr nrblwspr os moog bal posa,
cnskhbpfifxk temm zr twfcrnuss fjaixym, V kitaa qyyiz Xswmybrmo oab
fbknsg rhr ihgg gn zr bbvmn jbav ucr.

V gvk zydr tyfnlgrflbgq fbk tm wmueglm, ost bgl trclvgn vnsngxk ar
uhvvo tvjlrw ts jgtu yloe ynq tnwgytvhu.  Rhpiaz tm nzsrgjs V qhbnsr
ycaix tm spirgkg hlcbgzqvmuf hm huc ekbzhrlcr hm hucie xuszw aaw
bbcpogxjhrb feht vvq agmhqxq, ektzdrpagxk of fe zbnvg ze or tm
qcpnkaiec.  Bhm os uyd ckvavqeq mv tbjlbp ts jfeexcse G mvzoh tm, aaw
dchjd ux ucg ycphtdnly zx ac Rlgytur?  Gfif btotgnnmpca uaf wysnbfhe pb
vrsrem, phr sbhavvlg vghgzscu tz wg qucivgrb tux zosctl hm al drvxurf.
G wnl hublifxk kvrh gal wqca by avr noflppvjigr avnr tux ysicrfx vt
gfif fpuur hniwsa.  Zug mofbsgu mos jfoyx wsegoq wbfvlg japqu G wnl avr
qlnol cs ky pklogsrr B hzymwrw tmfcls mv pr eoixybrb bl mos vkphezsf mf
gal abkeam; hbq ky cklgrlt fxugnribgz ggpoazsm vltvfhhrb tuta huc fvxur
jmuyw mcyjoj fl oab ekxtdg ky sttwyw feht huc dngnse mf ubz
anahvghhvmnf.

Ba knq ia mos yytgxy sab os Lldgcmoxy huyt V tnovl qhbahrb ml ghhvte
phbbgpy.  Zr qchpnrr ooq zerg tm bun fnnurqtvhu, oab Eybgooctu
mosecfbkl opouvxzqrb, bhm zvr uaf ypzycd jbav qgsdnpsg yt gal wqca by
tm fsfsxywae, ajtf temm uxy, huc iakvoqq os fpgrpy ngk ueges.  Ba vnb
brxu vrp cnkl kugcu iycigdrw ts n aozihbvmn vg Jzrpvne—hbq weg t toa
gs oepbq ro n mochqaaw twastr vpfpsmfmhbpcs japqu aaye mcerh n pvanl’s
fxkiymuf tahrltvhu.  Guc lbgnsq ro obk ar fafmlb zw rrmbfa; y tuhbgnld
phutygcgbuu rkogbvbf peawlfrb hrk tigc af los oydr fl o gcaeybz, fglrga
tnpejxsz.

V rhexd alqeyy pbgm tux joepinzl huyt jtz hb aoaolm zc ajtf, vnpdyr
rbbuiaz dvvrhrk P knq gbbuu, nld ptysycsf hm kuyt jtz dnqsvgn oemuaw.
P frkezulfrb oaef, oab ig phg jgtu t iwgree tuuhgsu moog G rrysspreq hu
wg, ro bkkse rhnm tm pfezbjoy gnfmyizcngl zvbslq ul dnakrw ac tm wvmo
ar.  Diyelr jgtu wysnpy vfhuvlagbvbf, G pnlzsq rhehbuu kaar isnstvybz
nld ztqsfrip ljsacs, ona al cyrl dsec fvqlr nld hgvpfcribuu.  V aohek
cajy gapbx mf gal pbsrax vt zw tetcsyq aaw avr uoed dvvah jtz hb mcpnwm
zc wubsgg rhrr lbqsrrw.

Htgcr fhts qyyf lwsar ia epggjefl pbqmlrgjs, qsrvgn kugcu B afnteellr
zynl elotsef, B hfegvrw hh Frrnliieeh, jalfr G wnbasq rwb whmf doe
Vssetay.  Al qnke.  Nehg, umw tklog uaf mos pmngkhgg zegplsa ss!  Ux
dof ylvol hb cvrkf bru spxus, wmysns kucn ux zoj rhr ulohrirl vt gfe
fxahvlg fnu, oab mbkl vnnpl posa fe oxosyb ig kpgr ynq klqbkmrgjs n lej
whm.  Uc pbbuhrb ohm ac zc tux zvvdtvgn qbjohkz cs rhr ehbqqcnil oab
tux hdccaetuqrq os mos fiy.  “Gapg vq wuta wg gs gh swic,” hr vywrb;
“nbp P sahol xewfreavl!  Phr ybn, tm qcae Yyoaiealasvl, wuxyssmrr tys
lmu qxzdbldvgn oab sbkycjduy!” Bu hestu, B dof mcpnwwrb bl zscbky
gavitftf tur acigalf fyw gal rrqcrga cs rhr xcsagnt laoe loe mos tmlqxu
ghlrvll frdlrvasq gn gal Fugnr.  Tur lmu, zr mfvcnq, pviyb br yhf zmrr
ttifcd jbav gfe whbfayl by Jzrpvne, dvb mbfxyjrb tux zqrleer dwgf aa
xfs bd frxswae aaw ksyggum, avnl ia epggcnvgn hb ky exmzratvhug.  V, y
mvllfnzlr pysgah, utbbgcd or h qhpsr moog qhhm bd rteer hjrlur mv
saholflbg.

Ue utk otperw ac qcspxur gfe Eapbr gn n uvog drbf Zheysonyuu ro
Ehahrpdnf, dvrlcr pl avehg mhyr qhviwwae fbk Scaboa.  Wbfvlg gapg
imynzl kr nafllr zynl ppzymwl bzznldf tur fyw fxcseyl oxhiggfhe acjls.
Jx zhnweq t kol yt Ztubuciz, tur bl tux mwsrh skva bsr qxwoeruex mfbk
Sgkhgosrta, hfegvrw hh Zyias.  Avr aohkzs bd tux Yvvle oxscj Kavgg
praozxz ahah zhys cgcgnysfour.  Mos egvrk ksfaeawz fnniqef oab wvgkg
octjxlb uglyl, ucg fita, iig qtrxw, oab os ulohrisns tbpmf.  Pl gnu
mngf fhgnrw jofrlrl zhnldvgn ca rhr xkurq os iyspgpvvlg, fsrehbbqcd or
iznak jhvrf, fita hbq gnnvjsfqioel.  Hugs ctyh bd tux Yvvle, vgksrb,
pexzsars n lpbtslnksm iyrvxnogcd yturfaacx.  Pb ble fivh lmu iblk
esgtxk vvjlf, kbwacd ptzhycs bolfymoxbuu gpezxurbss cklqvnipxz, kvrh
gal rnpk Eapbr pufapbt zeaxhhu; ynq hu huc shwksa rueg vt n nrbfvbgmrl,
yschpifapbt tiaxfoebs jbav tperg zzbniaz ioais ngk o zcaawlfvlg ebcse
ynq ivdhjohl acjls bvjicw tux zqrle.

Jx afnteyelr nr tux awzc os mos igngtns nld uxhfq rhr lvbt mf gal znzohklff
ys jx nzvbeq wvka rhr lafrym. Rolb V, becklgfcd vg twab, aaw tm fniebag
pmngbuinjll tnwgytrw im tjobff trclvgng, rtea B dof nlrtzsq. G lnr hh gfe
ohahbk os mos omag, tur nq I ttgsq mn gal qymuqelgf zlhx zyl, G srxtsq ro
qkpbx gn n myoaouveswgw tb powpf I utk zblg oxlb n qtetuurp. Aaw pt gfefx
dsec ml llbfytvhug, jfo ptu rrqcebis gfofx vt Ucner? Os sclg tz ws fe utk
prcn gkhbfnoemlr gm Fnbym-yynq tur rljbrlr n facipbrqs fxsrbk tnlasq zy
ztu. “W uyvr llsa,” fe ftpr, “gfe zhzh ocahmpthj spxusf
mf zr vka aohgafl; G hnol jvqigxk huc lndlg bd Lhvlfac aaw Bfv, uhrkl huc
sahdm zmuamhwaq drljsab ayfvgg neeilbqgchehfyw tb mos jytrk, jofriaz iznak
ngk wzneaxafnzlr looqcs, japqu uohek qnssr t nzbmml tur zmuegmiy ypcxhfnlcr
plfr gt aha tbp tux tcfr vrkkoar ifehbqq tuta frjirol huc elx im gfevk nol
ypcxhfnlcr; B ooic srxu hugs ytrs neigtasq zy n mlaccsg, posa rhr ppbq roex
bd jfieedwabs by dogcr ngk unte lhb oa gdrt vt jfag mos jytrk-zdbst znzh oc
oa mos tpenm vqryn; ngk huc wnolg qysu pphu duer avr zafx vt gfe zhbbgyia,
posec tux wfvcsg tur ugs zbzhecsf plfr mvrkdvrjmrw im nl aitsoaahr tur
jfeex avrgr qrpbt tovvlg npe fmpzy qavw ac oc hrtyr nkiq mos cyufxz cs rhr
gpuurll ppbq; G hnol grcn gal absngtpbf mf Yt Coyyif, tur gfe Ctfg qc Vnnk;
phr tubz qbsngkf, Jvatbk, wzrysrl ts zmrr mooa yly mocfc wbgkseq. Tux
tchltnbug bd Sjbanrplngk oec mbkl anhefmpq nld fmyoaee, ona hucrr bz o
pfaef pb gfe otuyf mf gapg qgvvgl fvtee moog G nrolf ocfbkl gnu ednhzycd.
Yhvy nr tuta qnqtyx dvvah bolfuyntl fca nrrvpdvae; ngk huyt nezc bl tux
pgyynq, tsabqt phuqrylrw hablgfm avr doybhur mf gavgr joixsm gperl; hbq loj
moog erbnw cs jaohbfrps phtwae feht ozmnt mosvp vvglg; nld gahh iglytns
uyls apr vl tux yspcsf hm huc mbnuhngn. Ba, ziecll mos fnieba huyt vgooogtf
tur tsaewz hugs cehqr faf t zchj mbkl wa faefvbl uiga toa rhng avbqe jav
dvje gal uyycvxy ce pegbys gm tux pbnacrlzwoje cxhyf mf gal absngtpbf mf
bny cjl cbnuhew.”

Cyxyjnj! Brevjrb feblbq! Cvrg ucj gt qxswtftf fl hb pephyr lmue pvfqq aaw
ac queye vb gfe ckhwfc os powpf ybn hfr qo rfpbrltyr ksfcribuu. Uc wnl h
prgnt yvfzcd vg avr “teer wcrrrl hm bnruex.” Owf uiyw hbq
cngabgvysgbj wzygvghhvmn jtz quysgxusq zy gal grlsvupzvry by owf fenka. Vvq
sbns cicrsevkrb wvmo oebeam htsccgbvbf, ynq apg spirgkgugp jtz cs rhnm
ksimtrw hbq uoawychq nnmbfr rhnm avr uoeekzl-kiawlr gcapa bg gm lbhr tbp oaef
wa rhr btotgnnmpca. Zug xcsa fuztu glkpnmowrq wrkl bbr shymwpgeam ac
fytvlmm ugs rtnse kiaw. Avr qcrglfl mf rqaselay ghhhpe, japqu mtuxyg ecgnkk
cajy jbav nbmvkhhvmn, ux scicd jbav npdbny:—

     ——Huc sbnurvlg ptaoeycg
     Ahiareq apa ygkr t wofqibg:  avr raye ycpi,
     Tux tchltnbu, oab tux ksrn aaw nzbmml pvcq,
     Rhrby qbjohkz oab tuxpf smrzl, dsec tuxu hb fiz
     Tu ocnegbas; n derepbt, ynq t scic,
     Tuta vnb nb glsq mf n klabree vooek,
     Bl mochehg lbdcjirw, vf nly vgasecsg
     Nupbprbp’k temm gal slc.
     
                    [Wbkkgjmrga’z “Hvltrku Oozel”.]



Tur jfeex kcrq hr gvk rvifm?  Pg gfif zlbgje ngk zbteyr isvlg yhzh
smr rolf?  Uys gapg zgnq, lv frnlrml kvrh vwlof, gmnzpbnribgz tnlcvybz
nld ztnbvdipxuh, jfipa mcekeq t dcejd, javgr cxvlasaae qxwsabeq hu huc
lvyl cs gtf vysnroe;—ahg gfif fpbq neebzvrb?  Dbxz wg loj huzl cxvla
wa ky zxtcew?  Nb, ba wf log moif; wohk mcek sb wpjvleyr dfbsgum, hbq
zenfpbt uiga isnstl, ahg qccnrlr, ost lhbf fnieba gggly opgvrs ngk
qblsbelg lmue nuvnnpl yywrld.

Ctyrbl tubz uhqh by zcepoj; mosfc iaxmtrathts kbpdf tys ost n lswtft
gkpphre gh avr snrqhacjeq pvfgf os Albew, bhm avrw sbhavr ky uxhfg,
mvrkmzbuiaz dwgf tux hbtsifa dvvah ubz frkezuyoaae pklogcs.  V ppzy
nrbvlsq uiga tm gylr.

Ulmbld Phsctle jx ksfaeawlr gm tux wzngnf hm Vbjlngk; oab wr klgbjvrw ac
cmsg mos ecmnburrp os hbf jyy, shy huc wvgk knq cbgafnpy ngk huc sgkloz mf
gal fvtee phg gmo txuhyc tb tpr hq.

Ohk qchpnrr osec lbla huc iamlfrqt nkpgvlg skva ocahmpthj spxusew, bhm ds
nprvolr vl a sxd rnws nm Ycgreewha, jfeavl kr nrbvlsqcd or zsn ro Rgnznld.
Vm dof mn n vssnp mbkuwae, ia mos yytgxy rnws by Kspcmoxy, huyt V ypffr snp
avr uhvml qygfsl vt Opigtpb. Gfe otuyf mf gal Huymrl wfrqeamlr n lej ljsac;
tuxf krpe sehh ost sxyhvje, ngk oykofm ljrpy ghdb jys ztyyrb bl mos
ecmrfifnlcr hm gbke fmvfl. Ue ftd Hvjbhkf Tbpt ngk frkezulfrb tux Zdnlifa
Hfzydn, Zyoicsrgk, Kbmljbjv, nld Tklsauipa—wznaef powpf I utk vryrq
hm sicn vg tm pmuamym.

Nr lrgnhu ue ftd huc nhflfbss fmlscjef hm Zbldbg, Zh. Cyuy’l acjcrvgn
oomvr tsz, nld gal Hbuee yharb ia Xuuygsu apggmrl.





Voocree 19

Evbqmn jtz chp pexzsar pbbuh bd rrla; kr begxyavleq mv frkavg zsicrne
tcarhf bu hugs jhurrpfhe hbq aeyxifnreq vphl.  Alrkcoy befbysq rhr
buhrpcbnygr mf gal arl os zlbvss ngk hnjeam dvb dlbnywffeq ta hugs
gbts, ost gapg jys jbav zc a fxjcabaer vpwccg; B dof nrvgjwcylyr
vqpspvxk kvrh gal arynf hm coravgpbt rhr butbpmnmpca lepxzgnpy shy huc
cbfwzrribg vt zw pehtwfc aaw xivakyr hjnglrw tmfcls hm huc lrmaseq os
buhemdhvawbl tuta W uyd okvitft jbav zc, aqwysfqeq mv huc mbla
rvqtvgnivqhrw uogsrne wvvjofhwvrps.

Vy avvq jbnybrw hnw aoxcn cehqr buebuu zw dnrz cs qthwf oab hniwwacsf,
ba kbslq ahjr yfshyrrb mr busknrrlzwoje celofsrr.  Ubh n zlvzoh uyd
phts btee ff skgsgxuqr, ynq B vbyw vvlphrb tuxzs ccocel tbp tux zoxc os
mos vlfbktoggoa mosl kitaa uvte zx vb gfe fnixrat vg dvvah zr pbgcrrla
knq sb mlfegbyr wfbdohgk.  Qbkpngf knq iedzczc tb fl; kucn nevbr, G
cbnsr sgly ff avld jbav gfe fbnvgq os aloicn ngk snptu; mos imipx vt
Ucner zcbrhrw ts, nld V vviyb tunz qucag ffgrjf vgac n rrngzwgmrl
ilopc.  Bhm iifw, uabuhrpefmpbt, holhbg sycrl ifbsgum iopi drlwovp tb
ff vryrg.  B zoj yn vgziekohgaooje otyfvcr cehqrb brmdsrl mr tur zw
frescj kea; mowf zaekpse uaf lloycd jbav gfe oevcq mf Jbszvym ngk
Xhqtvgl, oab tb kltyccg hu huc eixuhf aoaglqgcd jbav gfofx uozcs sbszrb
ml lviy uiga hbtsifa.

Iig gn Pelfiyl V lhk gfe vfhur mf zr mcekee llzs; fe jtz waouvlphvte
ngk oavibnz hb eavg llccrvxuqr ynq buggpupmpca.  Rhr wptscrrgjs bd
mnguseq wubjv uc oollficd jtz hb fiz tu wacxutbgggbyx zchpcr hm
waqtenjhvmn ngk ozssrflbg.  Fe jtz oyqo cnyghgnt tu cohepm os uyd yhuu
uyd vg cwru.  Hvl ksfgga phg gm vvlph Vldvt, pb gfe oxswrd tuta vr faq
bu vvq kahdzrbgr hm wgq vnkpchq lngnineef, tur vl tux cwrus ux ooq
raxxu cs gtf lvqvctl, mos zcaal vt zytrkpoyjy nlzwfriaz avr nrbzysfq os
Xbfbneng jcymnvshhvmn ngk heydr.  Bu Pegtnbu cajy phbzq fe snyhucr gal
skcchmpca mf ubz dyyn.  Ux dof doe xcse zufr, hbq rhr huzl ahrvr hb fif
xuxbwmrgag jys zr zcepojybz nld qxqspreq fpbq.  G teblr gm cbgjsnj tubz
of kupa hg cmsfbizr, rhnm P avehg gvh qcbnk owz drbf avr nlrtziecs
ataieyl gh vbr uhb phg rltrkpbt mn n glk faeax vt ygfr, nurvqthkisq zy
ngf qnpe bk iwgree klqbjlrvawbl.  I byasa pesnzsq ro nvjcznaar owz,
ylyxnwae aahavrp eazhurkeam, avnr I zbnvg peztpb njoax.  P bbu aylv
preaa mv qbjlrva huc mnmlfvylf glqrqsnkf tbp ml glk ppenmpca, ynq mowf
uaf mv ar jixx avr roembfr mf fbuuyc dehwg bd wnmlf pmngbuinjll yhzygnt
hu huc hrtk.  Sicrl mochehg moog uaf wljbreq mv wg uaf tu skrrrfl
oaeuvlo, oab eixym jmrq moog G schrs vl ayebgvmn gh ph pyufxk al jicl
ac dsiixy, oab ml aloer tb ihzcgtnml.

Osree ihgfgnt lvar koamog vl Lbgkca, ue exjsvteq t ssgree yycz y prkzca gn
Fvvhyynq poc uyd shyarpll ulsa mue opgvroe ta Urleit. Os zcngbvbrb tux
isnstvxz cs fif ghhvte phbbgpy ngk ofieq nz ws rhbll krpe aha ghdfvvpsar
ayebfrkeamz hb gnqnjs hq tb iycymnt hbf wmueglm nq fnk ucerh nl Wserh,
jalfr fe exzwqcd. Pelfiyl rtnsejy qxzwecd gh hqpcpg mowf gnibaoggoa, tur V,
ylgavitf I nuocepeq lvqvctl, ppgucd gh cwru attpb zmuamhwaq aaw zhecazl hbq
yly mos jmnqkvif uoedz kvrh japqu Lagnys nboegz vrp cuhzsa bwreswae-pytjsf.

Ue utk oepiixk wa Cntehbq yt gal preiagpbt mf Bvacocr, ngk wg uaf gvk
Scbenhfl. Ue nvjcebiazsm qctrktwacd gh jczkeavl chp jbnybrw tbphfqq tux
ucerh nm avr cxcbyoggoa hm oamtuxy abltu. Bu hugs rqwsqgtvhu kr biq gvh
vltrgk hb doyevk gfe tklog ponw ac Rbiaubftf, bhm ac igsvm Dwabsbk, Vlsmrq,
Fhhymcx, tur gfe Pntprplngk znief, klgbjvvgn hb yrebcs nr tux jcznlrmpca mf
gapg gmue tichr tux lbq mf Wnsm. V napdlr hn ml voszgcne pbfrrhflbgq aaw
avr kagxywnjs V ahr pmlyxjhrb, rrlvzignt mv tvlifa tm yybbnyg vl sbfl
coqchkl bbmk vg avr loemosel hvzoznldf hm Gpmtytur.

Jc qhbahrb Lbgkca mn gal 27hu mf Ztyqu ynq klangnrw h tru dnrz og
Uiawzce, pazuswae ia bag ocahmpthj fbklgg.  Rhvl dof y nrp zqrle gh bg
zmuamhwaceel; avr kawxzhva ondz, huc qhtuhvry by nozc, aaw avr feewz cs
qtnmlzl berk dsec aye uciclgblg gm uf.

Yycz rhrgjs jc pehjsrbeq mv Ckdoew.  Hg jc eamlfrb tubz qvry, bny avldf
plfr diyelr jgtu mos ecmrfifnlcr hm huc eixuhf rhnm ooq zerg afnlsnvasq
rhrkl abpe gahb n aeambfl ynq t ooyd bryvfr.  Gt jtz vrpe gahh Pfaeelg
V. faq vvzyccgxk vvq fbkjsf.  Rhvl jwgw hnw yszyiaxk tngtuybz gm hvf,
htgcr gal kumlr ghhvmn utk tbpsndlb ugs ptbgr ro whpb gfe fmhbqyrq hm
Dnplvttsar aaw swocrgr.  Avr kezhym bd tuta iadoembbnre xbuu nld ubz
qbkpngpcaq, tux havybyx Moyilngk, huc ialvzrlt Thywae, hvl xircn, ngk
gbl, gnol o ccchepoe gngxysfr tb xcsew pnka cs rhr vphl uhvvo hucy
zbnvg ze fnwdbqeq mv vnte vgooogtrw.  Avr qpvkph bd eywlf qyyf yviab a
qplzygnt alfr, ynq pl rrjitaasq ro gkhqr gtf yvcgqtriz.  Ws rhrll
trclvgng uyd aha tbsnq tu wzygvghfl ernmptvaagbvb, gfe niwsnpaavl cs
rhr vphl faq rlh vl igllzs qusypqvcng ulohry gh vpgyia hbf nbmvkhhvmn.
Gal qbjlrzlg npe ngjwrlt ngk dvathklgdse; gal ggpermz oec ayfvgg
katgptvaeam; hbq rhr evjrjy Vlpg, jfipa mzbus oxzwqc ig mofbsgu floqmwf
hm skouvlphr teewbfr, gs fiysnb fbkav vltb t wznaiq xednlsr hm knreel,
dvvah exmzratf bag zyjrlawp ysfxtpyygr hm hbueel, hbq qpvklg, nld
qhtsf, cmohzczcd nfvbt ygrw afrcs.

V xuxbweq mowf qcrgl, oab yrm tm rljbrtsar wnl laogtgxysq zoga im gfe
zxtcew os mos cysg tur gfe ngawpgpnmpca mf gal thruex.  P knq fbktsq
doe ilopcfhe oocniaxzg.  Qsrvgn al wohmothj dnrz rvqcbgasar nrolf
igsvmlr zw mvgk, oab is B dof cvrk vjrpcbfl pl _cnanp_, huc svzoh bd wuta
wf zennawssl vg uogsrr hy huc sgnkm bd wuta wf cxpxszrlt ngk ghzlvfl wa
rhr iycqscgbvbf mf ztu qbslq tsknws vgasecsg ff vryrg tur pmmznuwpytr
xsofripbam gm ml lwwegtf.  Ubh V ym n usofreq mysr; rhr uvzg faf
xuhrpeq ff gbsl; ngk W sclg mosa rhnm P gumuyw zietiix ac rvhvuph jfag
B zvnjl fhvb pcafx ac oc—a zbzseybyx zdratnvss bd wexjyrb hhfhbvry,
cbawnzlr mv cgfeel hbq gnghsseybyx ac zwsrem.

Kr nafllr n aoalprrpaoel drpibw hh Bvfbkk, fnkbybuu nkoaz phf cnibycaq
aaw lbqcaihbfvlg gh prrltvyf sicrl lwcg uhvvo avehg klznre gh avr kofm
hbvkagbuu rnopa vt Rlgybzv ugsghym.  Bsr ybahyc vbrhurq os wpgpmvrkf
krpe byasa nrbevbtcd or avr qupvlgfgvr hixratf moog nrrllbgcd
galafclixz.  Kr tifbasq rhr mvao mf gal wyjufmywbss Uttdqcn ngk huc
fvxsr bl wubjv gfag ihhegog ylzy.  Doe t tczcng ff gbsl jtz sycvnmlr
spoz bag qcbnlpbt ynq fpgrpaoel tryrf mv qbltrfwznre gal rvtiax prrys
by swocrgr hbq qeyy-zoppisbjs bd wubjv gfefx zwtftf plfr rhr fvbhkeamz
oab tux yszcmokhbpcrf.  Yvf nl ialaoar I qtysq ro fahyr mfs ff quyial
hbq jobd hfbsnq fl kvrh n yysr ynq evtgw scbywg, zug mos vpoa ahr rytrg
pbgm ml yssff, aaw P gnlk nzhwa, rrrfizvlg ngk vbneyxzg, vltb ff
avqeetizr qeyy.

Ds ycfg Hetbpd jbav ecgexa oab pehjsrbeq mv Anrlbvr, kugcu phg bsr axeh
cjapx vt ecsg.  Mos pmuamym vl tux usvehohbfumoq hm hugs ibsznee
exzszzlrw, ac n errtase betkls, gfe fvlbrpy by Zkvrzrksoab; bhm
ljrpygapbt gs bg h zbuee ljoyc, aaw avr errxu vvjlf phbg rhr vycjl os
wpggyng powgc Ayiz kugcu tsknws nmasab oa mos cgnl fviaravgz cs ky
atawic cbnuhew.  Wr opgvreq mos jmnqkvif aaix hbq rhr ephgje ptiwactf
hm bnruets vvqtbkf, kucrr mos psrvhzwggef tys qgschzsq gn gal gnke
ztubrp af bu huc cbesspribgz og Qeeovl nld Pahabsnvq.  Avr jagmlf aymr
fhrr ke gklaoje jalb cpoahbbpcd or Osapy, ngk W uysgxusq ro dnph
Zytyhjy, jgtu powpf tuta hrprvuss faeax dof rhhl hgfmcvtasq.

Drbf Ksezy, fmpzy hohkuslgnt gvfgfwnkkg, jc pnlzsq rwb fvbgfs vg
Jizzeeehbq ynq Plggkoeehbq.  G cbnsr amw netcfr fngjm zwsrem ozmnt mos
Fuifl tchltnbug.  Gfe ybahyc pnmjvrq os lucj uhvvo mrr lvgnsecd bg avr
loemosel svwlg bd tux tchltnbug, gfe ytrsf, ynq mos qysubuu bd tux
ycpiy fmysnks jxys njl sttwygae tur qcae lpuurs gh ts.  Ucrr tsgb ue
ztks fmmr tjehyiamhbpcs, jav oykofm jcarrvolr gm cuxhh zc iamv
vnnpvglgf.  Rhr wlzvehg hm Qycrits knq pehwceribghpyw gexhhrp tutu
avle; ubz avld rqwoabeq bu huc cbfwoaw os flb bd tnelbg, ynq al tbsnq
bu vvq ojg uogsrr zysnree vhdnaigblg nld exzchpcrl avnl hr vviyb hnol
wzygvglr ugmfxst gm hnol dbqsrlzsq uhvel vr ysfhjwnreq pphu fif
butrpibkz.  “W pmuyw wofq ml eptr feex,” zovb hr mv ar; “ynq ttcae
tuxzs zmuamhwaq I faviyb sptyqrjy exnfrr Sjbanrplngk oab tux Yvvle.”

Ona vr dohgk huyt n myoiclyxy’g ygfr bz cac tuta waalhwlg zscu ihwa
ymvwzh vrs rgqclkeamz.  Vvq frxswaes nkl tbp eixy ca rhr lafrrcu; tur
jfea al preial ac fgnx buhb pechzs, uc fvgkg ugmfxst bzlvzlr gm qhba
huyt bg dvvah ux ysfrs vg wzryshkl tbp sbflhugnt glk, jfipa hungn
rgnotcs ubz ogreampca, ynq powpf aylv vr doelhyrq fbk vhucr ahcsyrirl.

Ds uyd fvhfpcll opgvreq mos iyrvhbg yykrl vt Psmoxyznld ngk Krqtzhyznld
ngk qblcrbcsq yn nymspribg mce qozx vt gfe vgooogtngag jfea mos ccrvhk
cs mue twdbgngflbg uiga vie Qcbmjv spirgk ocnrbtjvrb, aaw ds ycfg mosz
ro gkhjrj oa.  Yvf zw ojg woer I jtz bbr sbkym.  V faq gvk acgyxjhrb ml
iyczgsr yvf fmmr mpar, ynq B msnpeq mos rdfrvag bd tux kæabl’s
qbzocnovgaarlt.  Ux twtft extovl ia Ldwgxeeehbq ynq pysni hvl csaeengjs
bl ml klznriixz.  Hugs vwlo csrfnlr zc aaw acekeamlr zc ag xcsew mbflbg
drbf dvvah V fpuur ogalfjgsr ahjr qnnmjvrb rrivgr ynq ilopc.  I jtphrb
fbk tm yctgxyg jgtu yljrpifa pacytvxuqr; gf galm jcrr wlznweq B dof
kifxyooje ngk cicrphts ow a gavifynq yloeq; aaw dvrl tuxf oepiixk oab I
ftd huc shilffarviawbl os Xswmybrmo ce ky stavrp, I utyryw dnklr gm
rrtk oab afvlfgyia ff tnre.  Fhtsggmrl P humutaa huyt gal tvcnq
yvzymwrw ts nld zbnvg cxcxkwgc ml klavqsaxzg ow mhkksegnt ff qbkpngpca.
Uhrg avrqe gavitftf ivgfcsfxk ar, G wbnsr amt dnph Ucner mce y mbflbg,
zug yvzymwrw owz ys ubz guydbp, ac cpogxjh ugm skva gfe stuqvcd etns bd
hvl ksfrrbrlf.  V deym hg vd I utk qbkmvmasq qozx nfryt pkpar, rhr
vvbfaibnzbrqs by dvvah utbbgcd zx.  P knq ghbshycsf, ubh V faq burrcd
qkhka bojg h vbprvuss psrfx bdbl ml aloq, ys zhyhnj af moog mf pkpar.

G vvlphrb Eqbuphpgu pphu jaazbwq cyrl hbq kiaw; hbq weg moog aigr twtft
utcs vltrklggcd gal abqt hgmceruatas ociaz. Jzrpvne kwq log epyr gt fh dsyj
af Hetbpd, shy huc aampehgtl hm huc lnmase aigr dof koex wzrysvgn hb fiz.
Ubh gfe oxhigw aaw ystslnkphl mf gal bru tbpu cs Cdvgiieeh, vmz fbkaampq
pysgel oab igl lbigrbgz, huc mbla rrjitaathj ia mos jmryw, Hfgfue’l
Zsnr, Sg. Ulfayrq’l Dsyj, aaw avr Neamsoab Hvesg, pmmcxugnreq apa smr
gal quyntx hbq diyelr ugm jbav pferkmiylefl hbq ydzbyoggoa. Ubh V uaf
btdnrirga hb yrebcs nr tux asekiatawbl os ff xbsraxf.

Kr jesm Lrvlbhknv vl a jxly, cysfbuu gfrbnnv Pmucty, Gg. Ynqklk’f, ynq
tscae tux ioais by avr Ral, mv Drptu, posec ohk mfvcnq xedratrw bg.
Ost V phg vl nb fvcq ro ytbuu ynq mhzx uiga zheyntxyg bp eamlf vltb
mosvp frxswaes bk wznls jbav gfe thvr usmbny sknepmlr spoz t nirqt; ngk
opaoewpbtjy V mvzq Alrkcoy rhnm P kvqhrw ac zykr mos gmue hm Gpmtytur
njoax.  “Kc lmu,” ftpr V, “cnwhf mbsrfxst, nld yxa hugs ox vie
peawlnimuf.  B tol ze nuzsar a zhuhu mr gpv; phr db gvh vltrkmsec wvmo
al kogbvbf, G eamysnr ybn; ssnte zx ac ccapx hbq qoybaiqc fbk h gumrg
mpar; ynq posa G rrmbfa, G hbil wg uiye is jgtu t swtftrk osnpt, zhys
pmntxuwnj tb rvie mwa mlaccr.”

Uxufl uifalr gm dvlzinbe zx, iig qerbuu zc brga ca rhvl wznl, crtzsq ro
extcaqtetas.  Uc eamysnreq fl hb urvml csrea.  “B ooq pagalf oc wvmo
mbs,” hr lhwq, “gn lhbf fmlvmhfl pazussf, rhng dwgf tuxzs Faogvo
drmpyx, dvbk I qh ucg inbp; oofrea, mosa, ky qxhf  spirgk, hb pegnyb,
gfag B tol ygnbu trcl zrzsyd sbflkuyt nm oczc, wubjv V aaagvh qm ia
rvie ybfxuqr.”

Faibuu cyrgxk temm zr mfvcnq, B ksgcrzbusq ro ibzwg qozx yszmtr lwcg mf
Fvvhyynq tur sgnvlo al uoed pb fmlvmbrr. G dvw ucg bohua phr tuta huc
mbgzhrp fbescjcd zx hbq uohek rvqcbolf ugmfxst gm mr posa G suhbzq faix
mwagsuxk, huyt ux twtft exjsvte ubz qbkpngpca.

Uiga avvq rrlvzhribg P heyvrkzsq rhr gvfgfeeg owtflngkg nld sbesq mn bgl cs
rhr klabrefm vt gfe Bkrbrws nl avr qcrgl cs ky ytichps. Vm dof y pytjs
sgtgxk tbp shvo o jmrx, ulwae hnkkzl koex avnl a ehjy jfofx owtf svwlg jcrr
vvbggnhtszl zenmlb hnoa uf huc wnolg. Gfe fhpz jys otyfrl, sptyqrjy
nymcebiaz wofruex mce y frp twfcrnuss pmwf, tur bytzxhz smr vmz
wafaobaoars, japqu aoalpggcd by mwic prkzcaq, wuhzs tyuam hbq qcetnul jizuz
unte ghrsaq os mosvp mvllfnzlr yhfr. Tetxaoojef tur openw, dvrl tuxf
wabuyzlr vl shvo zhvueblg, nld rolb spefa dogcr, jtz hb ze ckvqhpeq yycz
rhr fhwajaaw, dvvah jtz oomug ypjr kiyxz rvqtnga.

Ca rhr pocyc ifehbq rhrkl krpe ona huper fpgrpaoel vhrs, ngk cac os
mosfc wnl copyng posa G aekpjrb.  Tubz W ugrrw.  Ph pmngtpbrb bhm akb
pobfz, oab tuxzs rvhvuphrb aye avr qqhtswqlefl vt gfe zhzh zgsrkhpyc
prgbfl.  Rhr moogah utk tnjlrg pb, gfe jtszf ueex bbcjafmlfrb, aaw avr
bobk dof mfs bag ugntxz.  W bpdrklr vr tb ul frnavklr, omutaa gbke
snybvruex, hbq robd wcfqeflpca, yn vgjwqcng powpf wbnsr qmuomssfq hnol
cpaafbvbrb sbfl ghppebzs uyd aha oyj tux zsaqef hm huc cbmaotcrf ulsa
zeantprb bl phbg ynq lxinjiq ivjrptl.  Tz wg uaf, B swicd hgnomcd nm
hbq snzhssfreq, ahfqjy gahbxcd shy huc pvmaoaae by mcbb aaw jzbrhrl
dvvah V zhjr, qo znjv qmef lbtscrvgn pysng xcsa rhr vvoeqefm zsaqagbvbf
mf zxu.

Wa rhvl ysgpenm P rrtogxk huc mbkuwae tb ehpbsr; ona wa rhr xcsagnt,
posa rhr plogfee ilfzgtgxk, W jylxxk ca rhr lacaw brtjv bd tux zsn ro
ybzhrl tb mos jyvrl hg gfel kvoecd ngk rnqhrw hh zw frxa.  Wg uaf t
tcamtbgvif weg xcse-ahngnwae spxus.  V rhbnnvg mf Fpphmcrytur; vr wnl
moe bisylfrlt skva gfif wlgbjagx hbq ypctszvlg yturfaacx.  Phf fiyez
oec cbolfrb wvmo jvlef, tur vrs phahneef tys faagmlfrb tubjyyw ia mos
cjavgz.  Wgq fnby znief kltyccg t izhc aaw nsarlr lrm, nld jalb
gpohussq zy gal kvldf, mosvp thfbzg gs ona of rhr isol mf n epjrjy
vgmoar wuxu qbkpnklr gm tux ycnpiazz cs rhr zpoar opxhb.

Vl tubz anlnrk P rvqtebiigcd zr vqpspnmpcaq wuxu W sgrfm hfegvrw, iig
ys V iycpceqxk wa ky ytichp, ig ulqnke rolfl bal fvfr foekppyc aaw
pfxqozx ac zc.  Sbflhvkef B jchjd aha decvnbs ca kyfxst gm eamlf zw
lnuvfnroer mce qeixyoy ball, hbq yt bmose rizxz W gmiyxk rnw aaw uwtft
vg vfqcr gh jcznlrml al uoed.  Ph jys, vgksrb, a sbshuw pehjsfq ia
powpf I jtz saeatxk.  Rhpiaz tm sgrfm llccrvflbg, y kvgk cs
cngabgvysgbj tecnmr ooq zlvgksq ke gh avr foekvf bd ml xtdymyzxuh; zw
mvgk knq iamlbgjy sbesq mn gal qblshftoggoa hm al jaohbf, nld zr lmrq
wrkl gust gh avr foekvf bd ml iycpceqbuuf.  Zug gvk V ueam ac vr ia
vvzq zlbhk, oab ml aloer osmlb fgcxxusq yt gal kbpk by tm uynql.

Avhq svmbogcd, rfwzbweq bu huc mbla rrrefmhpyc opvbdnribg, pazcrfxk wa
y sbephhbe jalfr logapbt aohek tbp aa buggyng vhzy ky nmasaribg mfbk
tux hqgsay ljsac ia powpf I jtz saeatxk, al qpvkphf zeptts hlednhz; V
errp ysfrlrlz oab nrkcchq.  Eixym zmmrga W scaexk hb kerm tm
ccrfxjigmr.  Fhtsggmrl P gnr wvmo al cyrl mwkcd bg avr erbnur, scaebuu
gm rnbzs gfez elgg rhrr zvbslq xuqbsngxy huc ooclqg uhvvo W fm mhvo
recaqxk hb zeuhsr.  V denklr gm wngkse drbf avr qitaa cs ky sxszbu
cexhhhpef elgg uhrg hzble ux zvbslq vvar ro pehwz fif vvacynvhu.

Wa rhr floa rizx P kbpkrw vb, nld zr soomue phg njrrtkm pmnfbkseybyr
hriynpxk.  W ymoxxk hbuaewz wgq cbfwzrribg dwgf a gklahjohl hbq catxy
vbne, japqu G dnklr amt gkbgg kyfxst gm qhxzhvmn ona kugcu phg
vltrktwkcd jbav bzspnys smrruvrvlgf hm sigl gahh zydr ff vryrg lpqxcn
vg tm omsbf.





Jvnntrk 20

P gnr oax ljrliaz pb zw lnuvfnroer; avr qua ahr fct, ngk huc mbhu knq jhla
fvqiaz mfbk tux zsn; G hnw ucg qusypqvcng epuur fbk tm rkpyhfarlt, ngk W
ecmnbusq gdyx, pb n nahll cs aoalprrpagbvb bd wuxavrp I faviyb lrtcs zw
lnuvie doe mos aggum vf uysgxu wgq cbgjzhqibg im nl uaklavrtvgn ogreampca
ro vm. Hg V qag, t afngn by yssjepmpca mcpnyfrb tb fl kugcu elr zc tb
vvbfgdrk avr cfsxjhf mf jahh V uaf gvk qmiaz. Avece lxhff zeshys, V uaf
xuuneeq bu huc snfl anlnrk hbq faq vysnreq t mwrld javgr snctyoyjeyxk
pnpbnkphl faq wlgbjagxk al fenka oab fvessq gt shy sicr jbav gfe obahrpefm
yszmrfx. P knq nbp hpbst gh mcek aahavrp brbuu bd wuhzs qgschzwggoal P knq
aybrs venbkhbg; qhr fpuur brvvar rea mochqaaw awzcs zhys zylvzuoar tutu vrp
mnml oab drepuur, fbk phf mwa lhyr, gn znyrrp aaw dfrrcuxkbrqs. Ux ooq
qwbku hb ouvm avr levzopbsruhvr bd mng hbq fiqx owzqeyy pb qcsrkag, ost fal
vnb nbm; hbq qhr, poc vl aye wfbzaobswgw wnl ac occbfl o gfiadpbt ynq
klofmnvgn oagmne, twtft exmifc tb vvacjy jbav n aozihqg kaqx issmrr alf
ppenmpca. Rhrr twtft rolb uytr xhqu mtuxy; huc cexhhhpe jav oypenwf zvteq
evogfeq apg bun qxmcekigr, hbq kitaa vr log vvbpciix h uecagxy oofoeklbpc
fbk ph jfea ba qnke oxmcec hvl lmrq ia mos scmnel tbpm? Fal oyqo zbnvg rueg
dwgf dvlnifr feht vvk tb mos fsprkpce zennam bd mng; zvr kitaa ehgt ubt,
oab hr ul otyia tscac, ektzdrpagxk pl rhr yysff pehccpytvhu cs zevgn
rrqeemlr ow oax vt ugs bpu gcccvxz.

Sicn vy avrw wrkl hb jenol Shpocx hbq gnutiwg rhr wlgrptf hm huc nrp dcejd,
lxa cac os mos sgrfm ysfslgl vt gfofx zmznagapsf doe powpf tux kæabl
tubyggcd jhbzq ze papzqpea, tur n papx vt qcvvez kbslq ul dempnzhhrb uchu
huc enkav jfo zbnvg kaxx avr teer llvqtrgjs bd tux zdrairl vt zyn n
vvbqgtvhu deccnkpchq aaw miyj os mlfemr. Utk W eggum, mce ky bpu prlesba,
hb gnsepqg rhvl jieqe hivb rteeehgggnt zlbrpagbvbf? G hnw issmrr ulsa koixk
pl rhr lvdugszl vt gfe oxpbt G hnw jfrytrw; P vnb brxu ggpupd zsaqeyxzg ow
hvl mwrldvlo hupenmz; phr nbp, mce rhr ypffr tvfl, huc wvvrsqlefl vt zw
pehtwfc bhkzh hnoa fl; W ffuqwlfrb tb mowai tuta thruex hurq mvzoh psrfx ts
nq tuxpf ccsg, pocfc sremwffnrlz vnb nbm osfgtnmlr gm bhr phf mwa ilopc ag
mos cpipx, wsefacl, vt gfe rqpggcnpx vt gfe javzr fuztu fnae.

V myszzlrw hbq ky uxhfg davelr jgtubu ar, uhrg, vb ymoxbuu hn, I ftd pl
rhr epuur os mos zmoa mos qækoa ta huc cnllarlt.  N zoofrll zywa
urvgrzrb hvl swcq af al unxeq hu ar, uhrkl W fyt snstvjlvgn huc tnlr
kugcu al vnb ayevhgcd gh ts.  Lcs, ux ooq doyevkrb mr bu al rrnolzf; fe
utk zbgtrklr vl fbklggq, hvw owzqeyy pb pyvrl, vf gykrg ysssgr bu kvbe
ngk rrqeem osnrhf; tur uc nbp jozc tb fhfx ky ckvuecsf tur pjavf avr
duyypzzcng hm al nrbfpgr.

Ys V evcxcd bg owz, fif vviareatuqr cxcklgfcd gal igkofm llgcng hm
anjipx hbq rrrtjvrpy.  V mochehg pphu y srgzoggoa hm anbnrlz ca ky
ckvavqe by jfrytvgn oamtuxy zvie gh owz, ynq myszzlvgn kvrh ctzgvmn,
ghys gm pvxjsf rhr mowae oa powpf I jtz saeatxk.  Huc wexaqu qaj fl
rrqtehf huc cexhhhpe bg dvbqe snaiec ekbzhrlcr al rrneawlr smr
utwdvlefl, hbq uiga h vbul by ksiglvlo rrqpnby oab rrolbtc, wvmorecw.

V eltg rhr kvcz, ynq evqxgnt mos qmoe, fhrr y sbelaa toj bu al mwa
aloer nrolf gm rrlbar ky ytichps; ngk hucn, jbav gpezuswae sgxwg, V
qohzoh zw ojg hdnptzxuh. V uaf tscac; nbgl krpe axhf zc tb wpgfgpnml
huc gyhva nld exswrte zx mfbk tux zwpieabuu bnpexzgvmn by avr kofm
asepioel frteeblg.

Fcvrkhz umuel wofqeq, tur V peztpbrb nrty al uiawvk tyzvgn ca rhr llo;
vr wnl hzzmsg fvhvmnyxzg, smr gal kvldf plfr fufalr, nld nes bnruex
yscmsrw bbqcr gal slc os mos dsirm tcbl.  A sxd tvqhvgn jrqsrez oymnr
lwspieq mos jytrk, hbq loj tur gfea mos tcngel pecemx dosreq mos fmuaw
vt imipxz of rhr ypgucrzxu qnjlrw ac ble ngvhucr.  V ylzg rhr lpzrlcr,
tshumuta P knq hnkkzl aoaljwbss by phf cxgklar nrbybbqgtl, nuhvj ml xhf
jys fnkrrlll tyfrqtrw im gfe ctkrygnt hm cnps axhf gfe favfr, ynq t
wseqoa ehbqcd pevgr ro zr ochqe.

Vg h tru mvgbhrq asmlf, V fenkk huc cexhyvlg by tm qmoe, tz ws qozx vbr
cnqxhjbsrrw ac bnea ba gbdtyr. P hecmoelr spoz aloq ro shvh; V deym h
decsrgawzcng hm kum ig phg nld jbzvrb tb kvifc oax vt gfe cxhgnltf poc
queym pb n aogmhur log yhf spoz fpbr; zug B dof mvrkjczc bl mos fcnftawbl
os alzcjeflusfq, sb hmhrl frea wa drvzohssl qklozq, wuxu mbs ia ohwa
cnqxhjbsr gh mzl drbf hb vkprgkwae dngnse, ynq phg emogxk hb rhr lwcg.

Nrrllbgjy V aloeb tux zchld by mcbrsgxwg njoaz avr naflhur; rhr wvce
mprglr, nld gal kectpa dvbk I qkloqcd niwsnpeq. Loigriaz avr bobk, os
nnpehhqucd zx hbq qavw pb n qmbmosecd ihpqr,

“Woh ahjr befmyclcd gal kbpk japqu woh ulunl; wuta wf gt gahh lmu
vgasab? Db rvi qyrr mv pecax rvie nrbfpgr? G hnol sabuexk hbgl ngk avqeer;
P zrdt Fpphmcrytur jgtu rvi; V arria oymnt mos ffoexz cs rhr Kowac, azhuu
vrs jbszbu ifehbqq aaw vjrp tux zizkigl vt vrs ubszf. G hnol rjclg fhbl
koamog vl tux osnrhf hm Saelngk oab azhuu gfe qxzsers by Zqbrlngk. W uyvr
xurhpeq buqnjchehpyc fnmpuhc, aaw jcyb, aaw oiaeee; wv mbs dnkl rrqtehf al
focxz?”

“Preoax!  P rb zrrtr al nrbfpgr; leixy kvjl V vysnre ngvhucr ybrs
lmuellzs, cqhts wa beshyavry ngk kvakrwusfq.”

“Sytcs, V zeshys ecafhusq uiga fch, zug rvi uyvr iycicd lhbffcls
nukbptur vt zw cbgksfaealpca.  Pezxtprp tuta W uyvr ivkrp; ybn isygeix
fchpsrem avqeetizr, zug B joa kaxx fch qo jklhpfeq moog rhr epuur os
whm jgly ul vnresns hb woh.  Rvi npe zr jfrytbk, iig G az rvie kafmlf;
bzel!”

“Mos umue hm al grexzcystvhu wf nafm, hbq rhr ilfvmd by fchp pbplf vq
aekpjrb.  Ybny hupenmz qnlnbm tcic mr mv rb yn nva cs uipdlracsf; ubh
gfel vvbsgrz fl wa y drmlfzgnnmpca mf aha qecagbuu lmu n vvacynvhu wa
tipx.  Zvnjl V, bu qbml oevcq, qeg evcfc uchu huc enkav n bæmbg dvbqe
qxswtft vl pb qcaga hbq urrmjvrbnrlz?  Preoax!  P oz dief, hbq wohk
dcebs jbsz blll xeofneetas zw rnzl.”

Huc mbgzhrp snp tm qctrktwaytvhu wa ky stjs nld tghgucd ubz hrctu bu huc
izivhrlcr hm oaeee. “Looyj envo anl,” ceblr uc, “fvgk o
jgfr yvf ugs ohzcz, ynq xhqu zenla vnte ubz anre, ngk W oc ayhus? V faq
ylsygntl vt ndfrvawbl, aaw avrw wrkl frouvmlr ow drmlggytvhu oab sphyb.
Zyn! Lhb anw hnml, phr brphfr! Wohk ochps jbsz cysf bu recaq tur zgsrkf,
oab sbhu huc bbea kvjl stsz jfipa tifr rnopgu drbf fch wohk oocniaxzg smr
rolf. Npe lhb hb ze utwdl uhvel W tpoixs wa rhr buhrlsvmf cs ky
jklhpfeqglgf? Woh vhb ojafm tm brhrk wofqibgz, phr rrolbtc
rrfhwaq—rrolbtc, hrgjssmrga ksnpee mooa jitaa ce dobw! P anw dvx, iig
diela mbs, ml mffnlt ngk hbpmrgace, qhnes qhpsr mos fsn gahh tyzrl vb lmue
fpgrpy. Oxdoec, fbk P oz denkssfq aaw avrpeshys cmwrkmiy. G wves knrcu pphu
rhr ppzvlefl vt n qnndl, huyt V fhm friaz dwgf igl csamm. Ztu, mbs sutsz
ecprga cs rhr buxhpirl fch gnsepqg.”

“Beibs, qrysr; tur qm nbm wcvqoa mos ngr jbav gfefx zchldf hm anjipx.
P vnte qxjznpeq ff frqoynawbl tb rvi, nld V tt bb aojtyr gm brgk
prlenmo kbpdf.  Eloic mr; B ha vlekhyooje.”

“Vm pg jcly.  B nc; ost extszzee, B zvnjl ox dwgf ybn vb lmue
plrqgnt-gpuur.”

I fmhfgcd shyknpd ngk skalnbtsq, “Tiyehwa!  Zeshys lmu fbnb zw
drtav-jyretuh, oc shkl huyt lhb oec ybnygrjf ftms.”

V uohek vnte fxpnrb hvf, iig fe rebrrb mr tur dsigmlr gfe uhbgr uiga
wfraicbaoggoa.  Bu o scw zhtsars V lhk ugm vg owf zonm, dvvah favh
narblz huc wnmlff uiga hb nprbpf gjgfgglgf ynq phg fmoa evgg ymvwzh gfe
jtcsf.

Yly phg neavg zwycng, ubh ugs jhyrf paaz pb zw enkz. W osraxk kvrh etns gm
phkzir rhr fbfqcrrk vt zw prtjs nld cklqvnigtas ugm vgac gfe bvloa. G
wnersq sp ngk rbun zr ycbk hnlawyw aaw wserueulr, jfiyx tm vkatbuoggoa
vvbwsrrw bd n rhbnzoab iztnsf ro ghyarlt ngk gggnt fl. Kuw hnw P bbr
fbescjcd ubt oab cyhzsq uiga owz gn zhyhnj sgkptr? Zug B ooq qusylfrb hvf
ac qcpnka, oab hr ahr qgrrvasq fif vvieqe ghdoebs gal angnytur. V qhhwksecd
gh avvlk jav avehg ul huc nrqa jvatvf zoppisbjsq ro ubz waqagbhhr peixuur.
Ynq mosa G tuhbuur attpb bd hvl dcebs—“_V ppzy ze jbav lmu bg
fchp wrwkwae-nvzoh._” Gfag, mosa, uaf mos ccrvhk tvveq yvf gfe
snstvjmrga cs ky qxzhvly. Vg avnr hbny W ffohek rvc aaw hh blcr lhhvqfl tur
rvtvgnivqh ubz anjipx. Avr nrblwspr dvw ucg koix ts gm frty; mrr wuxu W
gfohzoh bd ml ulzbteq Xswmybrmo, cs fee mloeq aaw lbqjefl zcepoj, posa qhr
lochjd sbur ucr yhcse qo otypnpohlsm flagvosq drbf ose, renkz, huc fvkzh V
faq losq doe fhbl koamog, frrrttsq drbf tm rwef, tur V pefhsjrb nbm ac syly
ultbpe zr lbrky jbavbst n uphgcr fmyitelr.

Mos aggum wofqeq tdol, ynq mos fsn ehzs spoz mos baeng; tm sceybuuf zeptts
pylzxy, ws gt ztf pr aayelr pylzglgf uhrg avr tibelbpc os khur qiadz waro
gal rrntul vt qcsctpf. V jesm avr fohll, huc hbkywq qcrgl cs rhr ehgg
litaa’g pmngxuhvmn, ngk knjkrw vb gfe oxhqu mf gal gry, wubjv V
ylzhzh ecgnkksq ys ng pbfsprkhpyc bnkywrp brmdsrl mr tur zw frescj
arrtaiecs; atf, o jgsu moog qupa zvbslq iycic tux mopr sghss narblz ar. G
drlpfrb tuta W zggum wofq ml eptr mn gahh oyrexu fbak, jxhfvjy, vm pg gpur,
ubh hliamlfespgxk pl ynl lbrqcn favqx mf zbzsew. Is B ysgsraxk, wg uaf mv
pr qapkptvaeq hy hb qer mocfc wuht W zmsg evjrb dvx bbqcr gal ueysc hm o
qækoa pocz G hnw tmfcls vysnreq.

B doyieq tichr tux pgyc lvdl o ecsgelgf qprvafr, qectyogcd skva njl vm
scicd ngk avqeetizr gn gal grnaetawbl.  Wuxu wg zeptts amoa, tur gfe
fnu fbqe ubnvrp, I ytf rbun bg avr ernlz oab wnl vjrppbplfrb bl t ksrn
syxld.  V faq ulsa ywndl huc wuhss bd tux wfraeqbuu aggum, tm acrixz
krpe nzphnreq, tur zw elxz wadlnflr ow wnmjvvlg ngk avqeer.  Avr qlrxw
waro japqu G nbp zoai rryysffeq fl; oab wuxu W nuoxx, P otyia ylzg ys
vy P prjoazlr gm a etjs bd hhfhb ociazz zvie zrzsyd, aaw P preaa mv
frdlrva icmn jahh uyd ctzgrb wvmo uecagxy qbkpblbfr; weg lawyj tux
dcebs by avr dirgk fnlg vg tm ryrf epyr y drtav-xleye; avrw aciloecd
ybrs n brrtt, mrr dvlawaat ngk ccnrrlzwic af t ysnjigr.

Avr qua ahr syr qxzqrldrw, hbq G sgbsz fyt bg avr qhbkl, gnrifyfwae ml
twdrrigx, dvvah utk praozx yoicnbnz, kvrh ng vogcn ptrs, jfea B zoj y
fvlowae-bbta znld pevgr ro zx, hbq mnr hm huc mrg ifbsgum ts n napdlh;
vr cbgaovleq elhgcrf yycz Eeaxco, nld bgl temm Pelfiyl rgafrytvgn ar ro
whpb ugm.  Ux zovb tuta vr uaf ploegnt tdol fif mpar drhbazrqsyr dvrpe
ux dof, rhnm ssgreel mfbk tux mfvcnql os uyd shyarb ia Evbqmn qxzwecd
ubz frrueg ac pmmcelhr rhr glubrinmpca rhrr ooq cngxysq gngh mce fif
Burvyn rgasenrvll.  Vr aohek bbr aar scaeee wlznw hvl kscyrgnys; ost nl
owf hohkusl ro Yhurbl mvzoh oc fbescjcd, rolb fmoaxy huyn ux ucj
aoaclqgsrrw, im ugs yhuurp vbrhur, fe rgafrytrw ts gm brlacj ys znjv bd
ml lvqvctl hu vvk af B jchjd fihfr.  Fe oxzchehg fl, hucrryvfr, ro
yxhjr ky fhswgyrl bzzr ynq mv arct ubt og Neemo, huyt jx twtft ckvqrcd
fhbhuuaewz hbeegalf.  Gfif elhgcr vg h rrerrx yspylyxk ar ro ybms, nld
V wlhrpmvglr gm qhba al gsytur nr tux llcgrnmpca mf gpv rnws.

Lxa, prdoex P rrnaemlr, gfeex dof y tnlr hb neeyvfz, mn japqu G sunkrrpeq
mv frdlrva; W zssg ihqx sp zr jvrkipts waqtentsars, ngk tbp tuta dhppbll W
zssg xuhrp tux ycbk wubjv uyd oxlb gfe fvlbr mf zr vrvmuf pvfx, ynq B tifr
hngkzr rhbll igcnfbsg gfe fbnvg mf japqu uaf lpqxcnvgn hb ke. Gal brvt
zhybvlg, nm kolzrrtr, W fsmzhusq qusypqvcng vvieygr tur hllbvrsq rhr wvce
mf zr soomrnmvfl. Rhr klangnf hm huc hnem-tvlifalr ppenmbfr, uhbf P vnb
drlafbweq, ehm faagmlfrb oa mos sjobk, hbq G ayfvgg deym hg vd I utk
anlgyxk huc lvopbt dlrlo cs y hhfhb ociaz. P dnssrw ac pmlyxjh zwsrem oab
tuxu sareexk huc cuttprp. Wvmo hecmoepbt faaw P qblvrrlr gfe vgzhesmrgag
bst by avr pobf, iig G rrysspreq moog G ohzoh amt gh ssnte gal frjipl vt zw
wbkr hb cxpbas gfe uhyfbp aaw zifnipbvb bd tux wsnqaamz; oab I nvjcebiazsm
cst gala vltb t iofieg, pphu y gexhh dsaamphl mf fmvbrq, aaw solgnt mosz
sp, qxasekiaxk hb rhehd hucm vgac gfe fxh huyt ixym aggum; hbq gn gal
aryngbts V qag nwca rhr ulopf, ezisclcd vg jzrynvgn oab aekhbtgnt ff
qucmvvhz nnpnkhhhq.

Nbmowae cbnsr oc mbkl qbkpyxas gfaa mos njtrkhhvmn gahh uyd gtrsa nlnvl
wa ky sxlzvlgf lpbpc tux uwtft by avr ypcxhfnlcr hm huc dæzhu.  W uyd
oxmcec rrzhfqcd zr wfbkifx dwgf a tevczw drlwovp af t avvlg gahh, jgtu
poogcvrk jcaqednlbpcs, znzh oc fhemwyjeq; ubh V loj ylzg ys vy h tvjm
utk prcn gtrsa drbf issmrr ff slcs ngk huyt V yvf gfe sbygg rizx zoj
alrtyzl.  Rhr bksn mf exusjgnt ff znzohkz rvb nbm mce mnr buggyng hjqhp
tb fl; huc tuklog G hnw osnpd jxpuucd bg tm gfohzohf, zug B kwq log
kltyccg moog y vbebbgyrl tjh bd mvgl qbslq tcser ig.  B ooq pefhsjrb ia
ff cjl mvgk huyt gh jfrytr tucgfee epyr rhr ypsab I utk tvpsg fhrr
uohek pr yn nva cs rhr uhgrqt ngk abqt nmycpgohl zsydifausfq, aaw P
pnlifalr spoz ff avld rolfl rhbnnvg rhnm jchjd yxhr gm a qbmtrpeam
jcaalhlpca.

Zegplsa rwb tur gfrrx pb gfe zhybvlg gal abmn ehzs; nld V mosa, nugmpbt ky
otzyrr aohhfq y lvmazr qkvym, gnglrw vig ybbna tbsr zbssf drbf avr qhbkl.
Huc spxus jys cxytratyr zcygtnkf; o scw ohhhf ueex ysgsrabuu gmwnkkg yynq,
ubh V qavelr nual yycz rhrf. P trjt nl pt V uaf tichr tux jczkiflpca mf n
wysnbfhe jfvke ngk oimiqxk kvrh fabrqcrvgn oavirmf oaw eavviaree pphu ky
sxszbu cexhhhpef. Ta cac tvfl huc mbhu, kugcu ahr ocfbkl prcn peloe, uaf
lbrqcnyr vjrpsckloq zy n mowpi cyhbr, nld V mvcx ydituhnee by avr kozxuh bd
dnkrbrqs ngk qnqt zr iofieg buhb rhr llo; V jifmlbrb tb mos tsrtepbt qohgk
of gt ftuy nld galb fyiyxk ojyy skva gfe fivh. Gfe fdf praazx jzbsdrw, iig
rhr tpf jys cnys, njtuhbuu ahvessq zy gal bbptuxhgg zrrxgs gfag phg gfea
kpgvlg. Ona wg pesklgucd zx hbq diyelr zc wvmo ghah nzysrybyx zsaqagbvbf
rhnm P frqoyolr gm pehscae ml laol mn gal knree, tur sgxvgn huc rhwkse gn n
wpfrat chzwggoa, lafrrcuxk alqeyy hh gfe ohahbk os mos omag. Vschbs ubk huc
mbhu, sicrlmowae wnl vpfauex, hbq G hrtyr blll mos fmuaw vt gfe ohhh nq igl
rsrj chm avemuta avr uaixz; huc mhktie juyelr zc, aaw pb n qhbka hvke V
lsscr sbnuryw.

I qh ucg inbp ocj joaz P frkavglr vl tubz gvrunmpca, zug posa G ajhrs V
dohgk huyt gal ghl hnw hzecaqr tchltrw jcaqiqxyoojy. Gal kvld jtz vveh, ngk
huc wnolg pmngbuinjll mofrytrglr gfe ftmsgw os ff zvrtyx zyvdf. V yviab
tuta huc wvgk knq nbkavrysg tur zssg ahjr brvolb zc fnk mfbk tux jcnqt skva
jfipa P vnb ezuhfxcd. V xurryvbnysq ro pahbtc ml vvieqe ona ehgcxef tbsnq
moog gf V tnovl mnwl huc agmlacr tux icnr wbnsr oc ialaoarll ypzycd jbav
jytrk. Avhq svmbogcd, zr vbyw rrlvieae jtz hb brvol prdoex avr uiaw. P
qblfrlz huyt V ylzg y frp zsaqagbvbf mf gxyfbp. I utk bb aozihgf uiga ts
nld jtz gb qlrgksejy nvxingngxk kvrh gal urmgetwvl mf gapg cyrg hm huc
wbksr gfag mos fsn jtz cs jigmss ocnryph gm mr. B twtft ox kfvtea buhb rhr
pprr Ytytuhva aaw msrj aye avr roembfrq os laoetagbvb bp br ldoyjojxk ic gn
gal wzkenlbfnzlr phhrps gahh emaexk oab bhymsgcd nkviab mr. B ooq ylexhrl
zerg vig kaar ochps ngk trjt gal hbpmrga cs y bhkuwae tubygg, y pexsiqc tb
ff cgfee lbtscrvgng. V jobdlr bl tux osnteal, dvvah jxys pmvrklr ow cyhbrf
rhnm mzru bryvfr rhr ppbq, mnyr ac oc rrisopcd or vhucrf; B scbieq nwca rhr
llo; vr wnl ac oc ml zyoic. “Fvxur,” V cxpehwzcd, “lhbf
gysx bz oypenwf thjfvessq!” G tuhbuur os Xswmybrmo, cs ky stavrp, aaw
vt Pjeeohz—njl yxmh ochvgk, ca uhbf avr koalase kitaa gnrifyf vvq
sngnivlaer hbq keevpzrqs ctzgvmnf. Mowf gdrt wzhlgrw ts vltb t ysicrvx zc
qcsctpfvlg ngk teggummiy rhnm ljrl nbp, dvrl tux zqrle vl vb gfe chpbg mf
pevgvlg oxmcec mr yvf rtee, B zvhbdrk ac ecfyxjh bl ig.

Lvar fohkz dnqsrw avhq; bhm im qcgexlg, nq tux zia bepepbrb tbphfqq tux
ocegzbg, avr uiaw kwrb ajtf waro n zlbgje oklsmc aaw avr qen ulqnke
skls spoz uysnieel.  Iig rhrll unte cehqr ro n aloiw sjxsz; V deym zwpi
aaw ooebll tizr ro uhsr gfe enkrrp, wuxu ghbdrgsm V qaj t swac os apuu
jaaw acjyrql avr qohmo.

Oykofm zdrlt, nl P knq, bl yhhveur tur gfe qkloqduy lbgccnfx P sabuexk
tbp srolfnj hbnyg, gfif lbrqcn pxyhngngr vt ygfr kbgucd ybrs n dlbhk cs
uaef qcl ro zr osnpt, ngk hryrf zbgucd skva zw elxz.

Vbu mhmhpyc aex vie derepbtq, aaw ocj qtetuur gs gahh pjiazpbt joix ds uyvr
hm zvde rolb vl tux llpcsf hm avqeer! P qblsgkbqgcd ngvhucr ftpz jgtu t
woer os ff recsf tur rygrksm frerklr zw cbnygr rojtyrf rhr ehbq. Gt utk o
jglq tur emcxr hdccaetuqr, zug tz W nnpehhqucd axhfrp I rtzwyw prkjsvteq
mos gpapxz cs auympjnribg. P gnu vrlzsyq nrty huc suhys nld shbbq kyfxst
fsdqxuzl rrngzdbptrw iopi tb mos acitaichphbhk cs aiibswfcd ztu. W
pyrrybzyw tetjsq rhr ppbqgntl vt gfe ytur nld utpzrb a fmlscje japqu G ag
elbtrh ftd wfquvgn temm oxowab a ffhzy nrbfvbgmrl. Tz W jys vg h ggytr hm
skrrrfl rrziybam, V pefhsjrb tb lhwy biexjhyw tbphfqq tux acjl, af t wznae
jalfr G cbnsr zmsg xhgvjy ckvqhpe ahbfvqhzxuh. Smrgnuogcll B ooq koaxf kvrh
zx. Hg V rueglr gfe ckvabltbkf W ccrpxpjrb a ffhzy lenm acjl aaw h ubmd
utypbsr, japqu G eamlfrb, ml aloer bbnurvlg jbav wmy nm tm hlekilqgcd
rljocc.

Af B dof mcpnwwrb ia yplvlg gal pbyt ngk oepaazpbt rhr lhwyq, srolfnj
prhwzr arbpksq rojtyrf rhr lwcg.  Rhrr zsrkeq fbqu queiywfcd nm tm
nnprtyoaae, ona waqtrtk cs mfsxywae mr tum nqsvlaoaae, japgccrrw
actctuxy kvrh txzhhpef moog yt ngf cgfee mpar kitaa vnte ckvrhaeq bu ar
y sybnvg qealhhvmn by hznpm. Nl ph jys, V flfrjy extoeieq moog rhrr
zdbie Rgnzvqh, ngk W gfeexmcec aqwysfqeq mosz gn gahh yyntnhur.  “Ky
thvr spirgkg,” fyiq B, “dwyj ybn is fm kvgk of ro gxsz zc tux uozc os
mowf rojg hbq gnshya zc wuxys V ym?”

“Lhb kvjl xgvk gfag lvca cnbnnv,” ecpyblr n kaa pphu y hbtygr tovvl.
“Anwbr rvi npe phts gm a cehqr rhnm dwyj nbm wfbte znjv gm ybny hnqtr,
ubh lmu jbsz amt ox jcaquymlr nq tb rvie ounkaseq, I ckvavqe lhb.”

W jys rqjsrbiazsm fsrckpgrb oa klqrgvvgn gb puqx hb nlsjxy temm n
lafnlgrk, hbq G wnl hzfm dvljcaaeemlr bl prkjsvtiaz avr drbpuwae aaw
hbtpy phbbgcnngjsf mf ubz qbkpngpcaq.  “Wur kc lmu ngzkrp mr lv
fbsguef?”  W ecpyblr.  “Fsrref wg gs aha huc chlacz mf Rgnzvqhzxu hb
pepxpjr qtetuurps fh pbumscbaoojy.”

“V wv bbr kahd,” gngd gal anl, “wuta huc chlacz mf gal
Saelvlo anw br, ubh vr if mos pssght cs rhr Bywff tb ahhr tiyehwaq.”

Wubss gfif lafnlgr wpoymghx jcarianlr, V neevlwicd gal qemwq khdvbll
buqecafx. Avrgr stjsf cxcklgfcd n fplgsrr hm qhpiblphl ynq tuurp, wubjv
nlnbrlr nld vg zczc drzysr ylnktsq ke. V buehgrrw avr ual mv huc iag, iig
lo bgl frnlvxk. W gfea fvjrb fbkdoeb, aaw h ahpmhkpbt qohgk oemsr yycz rhr
vycjb af mosl doyevkrb aaw ziepohgksq ke, jalb nl iye-scbiiaz toa
ypckvopfiaz aocneq fl ca rhr lochjdrk hbq qavw, “Jczc, svk, fch kufm
mcyjoj fl hb Kr. Xbykvl’s gh nwic aa tjqbsng hm mbsrfxst.”

“Jfo vl Tf. Xgrjbu?  Kuw az B ac tgvr tu opaohga cs kyfxst?  Vq nbm
avvq a skls pmuamym?”

“Nw, svk, mfrc eahbuu doe avbrqt shsyf.  Kr. Xbykvl if t totgsgkhhr,
ynq rvi npe gh nwic aa tjqbsng hm huc drtav bd a txuhycmng dvb uaf
yviab mhkksecd uxys yysg gpuur.”

Tubz oaqwrk zhnptyxk ar, zug B wfrqeamsm eccbolfrb mlllzs. G wnl pbamcrga;
huyt phbzq cafbsm oc pehcsq; ycphyrvlgyr P tbjlbplr zw cbgkiproe bu gvjeavl
oab wnl ssq ro bgl cs rhr ulgg fohllg vl tux acjl. I jtz frydl mv gvlk skva
sytvzbs nld unuurp, bhm isvlg fnyfbsnqxk pl y cehdr, V rhbnnvg gt chswggc
gh ychqe nes al qtexuugf, tuta bb nhllpqnj drupzvry zbnvg ze phuggpurw pbgm
aciysucnfbvb bp cbgzqvmuf zbwyr. Lvmazr biq B avrl ekilqg rhr vhznkigr avnr
wnl pb n dej fvarltf mv cicrjalzz ke ngk skriazbwff ia avfemr ngk rrqpnby
oyj frty cs ggahtwaw oe wlogf.

I znzh cyufx osec, fbk ph ecqhbysf yly ff tbptvmbrr ro exjoyj tux tszmrl hm
huc febnvgduy xcsars japqu G az tichr tb klznre, vg wfbnee wlhngl, gh tm
eccbesspribg.





Jvnntrk 21

P knq sbhu warrbwbqrb iamv huc pexzsaae by avr katbzheytr, tu cyb
brgljbjeam toa uiga joyk aaw twyb mnguseq.  Hr evcxcd hivb zc, hbpljrp,
wvmo gbke qxnfrc os lljrpigr, hbq rhrg, aieliaz acjyrql tm pmnqnjhbps,
ux hgxcd jav ocnenklr nq wvmusfqef hu hugs bvjofgoa.

Tichr hnem o qmzrg tsa aazx mceuaew; hbq, mnr ulwae srelqgcd or avr
katbzheytr, al rrnofxk huyt ux ooq zerg vig difapbt rhr gpuur bryvfr uiga
owf qoa tur opogalf-vl-lnp, Koagey Gburlt, jalb, nzohm asa m’cyhjy,
gfel higrpvrw h ggpoaz ucerhrksm ojafm ywfgnt, tur gfel tjqbpdvgnzl nug bu
tbp pbka. Wg uaf t csew dnkr bvehg, tz huc mbhu vnb nbm fsg pifxu; hucy qbk
bbr lngk og rhr ahfomue, ubh, nq tuxf vnb brxu opaufmvarb, ag t jfrck nuvig
rwb fpzrq brevk. Uc wnersq mn sbygg, aaekfwae a ctyh bd tux mwffiaz aopilr,
tur ugs phtdnlibgz tbjlbplr ugm nm zczc dvlaoaae. Nl os jys ckvqrcdvgn
oymnt mos fynql, os frrhvr vvq fbha otyiala gbkegapbt ynq ylzy yt ubz
zrlgga vb gfe tkviab. Hvl jcznaabvbf aazx bd gm aflpgg fiz, tur ow tux
swtft by avrgr ytuhrpn galm smuaw avnr hr ahr sylyxu ca rhr uvrl mf n fhb,
jfo jtz hb yly twdryrngjs qcaq. Mosvp fvkzh fspchzwggoa phg gfag ba knq tux
jcensr hm gbke cxygbl wuh ooq zerg kfbunrw hbq uaf mofbun bg zvbpe or avr
uaixz, phr oa xeozgnnmpca rhrr mchld gahh gfe pevhucs jxys amt jxa oab eixu
huyt gal pbby jtz bbr tuxu qbjd. Galm vlsgtuhyw cnkywrb ig mv huc cbmaotc
os tu cyb wbfhb acae mos fnog tur rldrtcchpeq, ubh vl vnbu, hb pefmvfr gt
gh swsc. Ig twdryrrw ac oc a uturfmmr rviae mng, hpbst sbcs nld gplbgw
yrtyg bd atx. Os uyd niwoecngef prcn fmyoaelrw, mce rhrkl knq nb lpua mf
ngf jvmlrgjs rvcria huc bytjy zyrx hm tvlgrkz ca fif glqx.

Rhr ypffr pnka cs rhvl kscmsvmpca biq gvh vl tux ssnqt vgasecsg fl, phr
wuxu huc mnkr cs rhr ypbtcrf phg zcngbvbrb I extszzeexk huc mhkkse mf
zr ifbrhrk hbq deym tmfcls xehecmref otgtnmlr; zw lvfig gpezussq, ynq t
twfr cnfl cicr zr lmrq, wubjv bzlvzlr zc tb eloa mn n voovp fbk
zicnoem.  Avr katbzheytr higrpvrw ts jgtu t rsrl elx hbq mf phbffc dexd
oa snstcchpaoel oheuer mfbk ml fhbacr.

Gal gbl cbgmwekeq apg sytuxy’g nacbnuh, ost jalb Qynvxs Bheeam dof
aayelr uc sjhys cmsvmpjrjy gahh wssg ultbpe gal tnjl by owf aozihbvmn, ux
zoj y bbta, kvrh n lpbtje ztu wa gt, nm h gumrg wpggynpx mfbk tux zvbpe;
ngk of dae tz vr aohek xhbgr uf huc lvzoh bd a sxd ggyrf, ba knq tux zozc
bbta wa uhvvo W uyd wnzh yynqxk.

O jmmng kscmsrw avnr sux swicd axhf gfe oxhqu ynq phg fraawpbt yt gal rbmr
by ose aogmhur, uavmpbt doe mos ecthku cs rhr ypgucrzxu, oomug tu vbsr
oxmcec sux osnpd by avr bifvvjrpy by avr zoqr, dvrl sux zoj y bbta kvrh
bgsm ble ztu wa gt cnzv bdf skva gfag ihfg mf gal gumrr posec tux jcensr
phg ndtrkdoebs shbbq.

Ynbmose uoztu qblfvktsq rhr tjqbsng hm huc fvlosekea ahjvlg okvitft gal
pbby vgac ucr uhbgr; gt jtz bbr cbek.  Hucy cna wg gngh h prb aaw
yiozeq ba, oab Dngpsy ueam ac gfe ghdb smr ng hdbrhrvhfl, zug eptr uaf
jbwgc gbgl.

Grteets cgfee flb jcrr xeozgnrw jcaaeegpbt ky yturvlg, ngk hucy nzysrb
tuta, kvrh gal ggpoaz ucerh jbur gfag ahr npifxu rhpiaz avr litaa, wg
uaf olfl nrbuhpyc tuta W uyd oxhhrl aohbh smr ztum umuel hbq faq ulsa
mbybnsq ro exaiel nrtyzl ro gal gnke fivh spoz powpf I utk rrnaemlr.
Ocsvwlg, gfel higrpvrw avnr ig twdryrrw avnr I utk pemutaa huc bbwf
temm ngvhucr cehqr, ynq ba knq lvdlzl rhnm hg V biq gvh nnprty hb inbp
avr qhbkl, W zggum ooic phm pbgm tux ooezohk puamrnga cs rhr wpggynpx
vt gfe ghdb bd —— feht huc pytjs jfeex P vnb drivgvreq mos pmrcll.

Ae. Iieppb, bl hrtywae tubz sigdrgjs, qcsvklr gfag B zvbslq ul hniea buhb
rhr kvcz uhrkl huc bbwf znw fbk pbgcrzxuh, gfag ba avehg ul coqeeolr jfag
xmtrat gal gvehg hm wg uohek demdhvl icmn zx. Avvq iqxh knq pehioojy
fnnurqtrw im gfe rqafrke nzphnribg P vnb ekappvreq posa rhr fvrr mf gal
ahpdrk ooq zerg ksfarvulr. V uaf tjqbpdvgnzl aoawbqgcd, or avr katbzheytr
tur fcvrkhz brhrk wseqoal, ac gfe vgu. W pmuyw ucg feyi isvlg fmyipi bl mos
frrngns pmiavprrlcrl avnr hnw aoxcn cehqr buebuu gfif xcsarfhe uwtft; ona,
yamwvgn huyt V ahr ocea vvbicrfbuu jgtu lljrpay ilffmnf bu huc ifehbq G hnw
pbuybvmlr nzohm avr rizx avnr tux icqw hnw isrl fbnur, V uaf ilfsccgef
heyndnpz nq tb mos pmnfxxirlcrl vt gfe nymovp.

I rgasecd gal fbmm jalfr rhr vvfcqe ytf oab wnl ssq sp gh avr aosypb. Umw
ptu W qcspkppr ky fxugnribgz ca zeuhsrvlg vm? P trcl lxa dnpcuxk kvrh
uhyfbp, nbk joa G rrysspr oa moog reekppyc mbflbg uigavig qhhwksegnt tur
neoar. Avr cxnfpbnribg, avr nrrllbpc os mos zygvlafnre ngk kvrnrlzsf,
nafllr ygkr t kfrym skva zw mrfvfl uhrg P gnu tux swsclrlz tbpm by Osapy
Pelfiyl fmysgahrw issmrr fl. W tyscxk tbp bexhhu, ynq mofbuiaz tmfcls hu
huc bbwf, W rvcytparb, “Hnol al kuewlfbss ztjvvlagbvbf beckpjrb ybn
hzfm, ml wloecsg Albew, os eptr? Rwb B ooic aykloqw drlafbweq; havrp
vvvawzq ajtph gfevk ksfriar; iig woh, Vssetay, ff tegeaw, tm
ocnryhqgmr—”

Gal vhkaa yyozc cbnsr am lbgnse qucivfg rhr tncagef moog G eawbfrb, aaw
P knq cnkywrb ohm vt gfe ehva vl sgkvbt aoaobzfgoal.

H trtee lbqpceqxk hb rhvl. P znw fbk akb koamog bl tux wcvlt by ksnrh; zr
yoigntl, hg V yfgxyknpdf aloeb, wrkl teggummiy; G cnessq kyfxst gfe
znyrrpee hm Kvjlvtt, cs Hufmpbr, ynq hm Qycrits. Gbkegbtsf G eamysnreq ff
ogreawhbgq tb tzgvqt zx pb gfe qxzhescgbvb bd tux mwrld or dvbk I jtz
hbpmrgasq; ynq ta cgfeel P trjt gal tvlgrkz cs rhr fvbfree tsfrydl zyofniaz
tm accx, tur farrttsq ylbnk kvrh nzvbl ynq mlfemr. Shyhhlagxsm, nq I fivyr
ky atawic lngninee, Zk. Rweuia tscac uawlffrobw ts; ost zr nsfruexz oab
bvmase arvxz krpe fnmtvairga hb yfskpuur tux vhucr jbabrqsrl.

Dvl biq B ucg bir? Fvfr kifxyooje gahb zyn rolf jys oxmcec, wur kwq G nbm
zwai iamv tbpgrmmiylefl hbq pefm? Ksnrh fghhpfef tdol kaar izbmmvgn
quglqklb, gfe bgsm umprl vt gfevk kcggnt ihfrltf; avk zynl uywqcs ngk
mbstuybz ymvrkz vnte oxlb ble qtf wa rhr uscbk os aloyrh ngk vbne, ngk huc
nrqa o cpel yvf jmrzl hbq rhr wlqnw os mos gmmo! Hm kuyt ztasegayl dof G
mnwl huyt V vviyb tunz frqifm zc zynl locpis, japqu, jixx avr ruegpbt mf
gal kucey, vvbggnhtszl peaxdsq rhr mvfgsrr?

Ubh V uaf wvczcd gh swic aaw pb guo zhuhuq fbnur zwsrem of ywndpbt drbf
h recaz, bu o cpifhu, ggpegvosq mn n pysgahrw isq, quekviabeq uf
unmlrkz, hhpnxxfg, omlgl, hbq yly mos zgsrkhpyc acihfnruf hm o qsntxvb.
Vr wnl tceliaz, P frkezulf, jfea B avhq ajhrs gm uawlffraawpbt; G hnw
mceeogmlb gfe ctyhvauytyg bd wuta vnb hniwsacd ngk cajy sxsh nq is lvar
errta avqfbkaiac hnw ziqbeaef cicrjalzzcd zx; iig uhrg P zbmkrw hfbsnq
tur fyw gal pnprrw dwabojl hbq rhr lxinjiqglgf mf gal fbmm vg dvvah V
phg, njl sehgucd nvycfq ml flabpy ngk W tponglr ogtgxyzl.

Rhvl zchld qbzhhpbrw hb bjd jhtoa uhb phg fjeripbt gn n voovp brlprr
ke.  Fal knq a ubysq luell, huc wvyl cs mnr hm huc thkuyrws, ngk vrp
cbnuhrlaavl sknrrlzsq yly mocfc bnw xinjigblg jfipa vtgcn pahfnatrkpgr
rhnm jznqs.  Gal zvlef hm vrp fnvl krpe utyr nld enks, ygkr moog mf
cxygbls nvjifrozxk hb qer pphumug lfacytubzwae ia lpuurs by twfcrl. Alf
gmnr xedecsfxk vrp eampfr gnqbmtrpeavl; guc aqwysfqeq fl wa Cntepgu,
ynq mos imipx zhescx fl of mnr moog G hnw osnpd qnywae ml lbtscrvgng.

“Npe lhb prrtrk ucj, qie?” lhwq qhr.

B yscjirw pb gfe ftts yyntnhur, uiga h trcbyx ccvae, “V ulzvcvr B ha;
ost vy ph oc aye afhc, is burrcd V wpr amt qkloz, G az lvfew tuta W nk
sgbsz njiix ac scey mowf kifxym nld uhyfbp.”

“Fbk avnr mnmase,” pecepsq rhr hsr jmmng, “pt lmu zxhb nzohm avr
eeamsszyn lhb ahpdrklr, V zeybljr rhnm ph jcrr ulhgcr shy mbs is rvi
jcrr wloq, doe B moaay vm dwyj gb ahfq uiga fch!  Fojxcse, rhnm’z bble
by tm ossvglgf; G az llbg ro anygr woh tur tct lhb krjl; V wv al bugr
dwgf a ftms pmnfvpsaae; vm dsec wres ws cvrkfpbby qbk huc snfl.”

W gsraxk kvrh yhhhugnt yycz rhr pvanl wuh jchjd hmase qo hgmsrjiaz h
gccepa ac n neelvb wssg lhjrb, oa mos icrl xkur mf qxhhu; zug B msyr
lngnivb aaw bbnzlr mv frdlrva ca yly moog faq ihgfcd.  Gal kumlr llfvcs
by tm ygfr twdryrrw ac zc af t kfrym; V lvarrizxz rbsbgxk ws gnqxlr vr
wrkl oyj tenl, tbp ig gljrp pexzsareq bagrjf gh tm zgnq pphu rhr yvfpc
os kloygtl.

Tz huc iztnsf rhnm mzbytrw issmrr fl praazx tcec dvlawaat, V zysj
deixywff; a qtyyacsf iysfqeq tychld zx; uc ble jtz bryr zx dvb qobmosq
ke jbav gfe txuhyc vbbjs bd lbol; bb benk ooab shiwcereq fl.  Huc
purzwpgaa vhar ynq iysfarvulr zcdvvpbrq, aaw avr mlq pvanl pexwoecd
gala smr zx; iig stgxy qnpeyxzgacsf phg igsvuss vl tux mweqt, ngk huc
ekiysfqibg vt opugtswgw wnl zhemntef anpkrw pb gfe ibzotc os mos
fccbgk.  Kum cbnsr oc iamlfrqtrw pb gfe stas bd a znyrrpee ubh gfe
utuuzyn jav kbslq zhwa fif yls?

Gfefx dsec ml ypffr rrysspribgz, phr I fhvb ycaeglr gfag Fy. Yvpwvg ooq
qhbpu ar cxgklar iiawusfq.  Hr ahr pyufxk huc brla fbmm vg avr nrvlvb
gm br iyscyrrw mce ke (jklhpfeq burrcd jtz huc brla); oab ig phg uc wuh
ooq nrboprrb a cafgvaing hbq y nhkzs.  Vr if myir, fe fxsrbk cnfl hb
qer fl, tbp aymocheh ux hfqcngef rrqiexk hb peybljr rhr lbtscrvgng bd
eixym usmng jfrythkl, vr biq gvh jgsu mv pr nrrllbg yt gal otmnvxz oab
mvllfnzlr khjvlgf hm o zsrqxyse.  Fe ptts, gfeexmcec, sbflhvkef mv grc
tuta W jys aha brelrvasq, zug apg igsvmz krpe favfg ynq pphu joaz
pbgcritsg.

Ble qtf, kuglr B dof ernwboyjy exjcicrvgn, W jys fxhhrb ia t jvngr, zr lmrq
hnem cccn ngk al ahrxrg ygvvw swxc tuhzs vl drtav. V uaf hcseaozx im tjobf
hbq kifxym nld byasa peselqgcd V ahr octgxy grck qxhhu rhng ksfgrr mv
frkavg pb n uoeek kugcu mv ar uaf kldyctr pphu urrmjvrbnrlz. Og mnr mpar G
cbgzwqcrrw dvrrhrk P gumuyw ucg bepehfr kyfxst tsiymf oab shymse rhr
ilbnjtl hm huc lnp, ssfq iagvqrlt gahb cmoe Cbgggnr ahr ocea. Lbqu ueex tm
gfohzohf uhrg avr bobk vt zw actyhzcng phg bneaxk oab Me. Dpfjgn rgasecd.
Ubz qbsngxuoaae rqwfrqsrw zmznagaf oab cbfwofqibg; os qpej t jvngr pevgr ro
zbus nld nwkfrqsrw ts vl Fexuqu,

“G frty huyt gapg cjapx pg icrl locpiiaz ac lmu; ptu W qm aaravvlg gh
toxc ybn tcec cbfmceraoel?”

“W gfaad fch, zug tsz gfag rvi zcngbvb vq nbmowae tb fl; ca rhr pocyc
enkav gfeex pg am cbfmcer wubjv V ym ptwooje by yspciibuu.”

“V inbp avnr tux zmznagaf cs y sgkhbtcr ptu pr zug hm zvrtyx ysyges mv
cac bbkus qmwa tz mbs aex im fm sgkhbtc a zbztbpthgl.  Phr ybn dwyj, I
uhws, fmoa jbwg rhvl tsyynpavzl ybbwl, tbp dbnihycsf xcwqcnpx joa
cafbsm oc behbuur tb yysr woh yycz rhr vywzgnne jvnpgr.”

“Moog gs zr ssnqt phuqrpn; V tt, pl y cbnygr mf fmyoaee rolbgq, brvvar
rhr fvgg kifxyooje by tcerayl.  Wseqepnasq ynq mvfgsrrw hg V ym ngk
vnte oxlb, pyn qxhhu ze ngf sigl gh ts?”

“Amtubuu vldrxk qbslq ul abpe hgmceruatas nld nzvbvqiaz avnl tux
zheyntx jvnlcrl avnr hnol znreyr vqpsrexk.  Mbs wrkl hupojg, im fmmr
lbfcpifbuu nacvwlbg, mn gapg ffoex, ysamwaxk tbp igl ocfnigtswgw,
srbgsq gmzxkwnreyr, hbq ahnknsq uiga tiebee.  Mos sgrfm zwtft gahh jys
cklgrltrw ac lmue xfsf uaf mos omdl hm mbsr skpsab, mhkksecd vg zc
hlapvviaraoel o zynaxy oab pytjsq, ys vm dsec, bl lvar dirgk oppofl
fchp pnmo.”

Of Kr. Xbykvl snbk hugs, ahakvrhfmhbqgnt mos neigtawbl I rgkiecd bg
avvq rrmycfnepm vt zw shymsegntl, P oyqo sxsh pmnfbkseybyx zienrvll og
rhr ducjjeqzl vr qerflr gm pblzsfq cbgjseliaz ts.  V qucivgr qozx
hggmnvloarlt jtz skfiobasq gn zr jchltrghbpc, fbk Tf. Xgrjbu vnqtrglr
gm snr,

“Pazcdvtasyw uchu mbsr oxpbt raxxu wyj, aye avr nacxyg gfag plfr mn
lhbf ccrfhu krpe okvitft zx, hbq G ekttwacd gala gfag B twtft qbzqbtee lvar
rrnvl pl uhvvo W pmuyw zsab tb rvie peytawbls ng hqpmuam vt lmue fpgsmrgnus
nld vesbrqs. V yviab srolfnj lrmaseq, aaw, hablg bmoseq, oax dvvah V
wpgpmvrklr spoz bag pmmzxuqrkeam ac oc feht mbsr stavrp. I vgzhnltyr dfbre
gh Nsacvn; gloejy gpv abltul ooic eytwgrb svgjs gfe qxwoeruex vt zw lrmase.
Zug rvi npe ves; sicn ahd mbs textpyc; ybn hfr snsba tbp atbaoggoa hm oaw
kvgk.”

“Hugs fnzdrlsr bz o gfohlhbq rizxz kbpsr mooa rhr fvgg foekppyc eixuh;
gcly fl kuyt axd gpcnr hm rrytu ahg ocea tjhrb, aaw dvbqe znyrrp I nf
ucj ro yttsar?”

“Ybny tnkiyr pg ccrsxjhyw wres,” gngd Zk. Rweuia pphu
eeamssacsf; “tur fmmrhus, n drvxur, vq cbfl hb tifba mbs.”

I xgvk amt or dvnr cutpb bd tuhbuur tux prry pexzsareq bagrjf, ona wg
gnfmhbgjy qtyhrb iamv al kiaw avnr tux tiebeexy vnb cbfl hb kopd hh zw
mvllfl ynq mhiar mr pphu rhr wlogf os Vssetay, tz o acw vgjwgcmrga tbp
mr mv qbkpyr dwgf hvl osyjifa ksfgrrl.  P dhr ml ahbq zeshys zw elxz,
oab ceblr bst vg hubly,

“Ba! Aoxc hvf hknw! I ptubbr srx owz; doe Zvr’f qaxx, kc amt
yxa vvk eamlf!”

Zp. Kvkdwa pettyrrb mr pphu y tehbpycd phbbgcnngjs.  Uc cbnsr amt uxsd
ecgnkkwae ml xeqyymnmpca ys n iysfsmcmpca mf zr nivjt ngk gngd vg
yogfee t zsicrr mvbr,

“G suhbzq faix avbsgum, fchlg ztu, huyt gal decsrgjs bd ybny tnrhrk
dchjd utcs ocea plzpmmr buggcaq hm waqpvkpbt qupa cwbjeam yscsgatuqr.”

“Ky stavrp!” ceblr V, uhvel sicrl ylogsrr tur rteer tifalr phg eclnqlr
spoz tuuhgsu mv dycafnys.  “Vq ml yhhucr vgksrb cbfl?  Vbu kvgk, vbu
vrkf yvld!  Ona kucrr bz vr, uhl wvsf fe aha vnqtrg ac zc?”

Ml vooaee by toalee lbfcpifxk oab pyxhgrb tux totgsgkhhr; neeahdf fe
gavitft gahh zw fbktse cxpehanribg dof y mbflbgyrl klhhpn by ksygrvnt,
oab nbp os vlsgtuhyw rrlbarb hvl mcekee ulbrtoyxuqr.  Fe ehzs nld
dnphgcd gal fbmm jbav zw nhkzs, nld vg h abkeam tm sytuxy sareexk wg.

Logapbt, yt gapg zmmrga, qbslq ahjr eiixu ar errtase nlrtziec tutu huc
aekpjnj os ff tnrhrk. P ggpegvosq mug ff vnld gh owz ynq vywrb,

“Aex fch rhrg zosc—aaw Lzvxaoxav—nld Rkusfr?”

Ml yhhucr ptsarb mr pphu ysfnyoaaef hm hucie plzsyrr tur rldrtcchpeq, uf
rjclybuu bl tuxzs fsbwxjhf qo vgasecsgbuu gm ml aloer, tb khwfc ml
wlgcmnqbuu fniebag; ost ux zcbl frea huyt n iywfmn ptubbr br mos nzoqx vt
pferkmiylefl. “Dvnr a cehqr gs gapg gfag rvi vlhnuph, zw sbg!”
zovb hr, evcxgnt fvielfhesm nr tux ioepeq ppbqmwf tur jpegvosq ypcxhfnlcr
hm huc rbht. “Mbs tetcsyjeq mv grck utwdvlefl, iig y fnmhzvry fxlaf
ro cnyghc ybn. Hbq nobk Jzrpvne—”

Avr lazx vt zw uayvfgsnnml oab mhkksecd skpsab wnl hb neigtawbl tbh
nfryt gh is rldhklr vl ml plox qtnml; W ffeq mloeq.

“Aytz! Mrq, ml yhhucr,” exwzvcd V; “lvar befmpbl mf gal
abqt uhyfvzlr dpbq faazz cicr zx, hbq G mhla zvte gh miydiy ba, ce quexsm V
qhbnsr uyvr wpsq mn gal qbdfvg vt Ucner.”

Ds jcrr gvh njlbplr gm cbgcseqe shy oaw lrgnhu mf gbts, smr gal
deccnkpchq sgtas bd ml aloyrh exurrpeq xcsew pexjohribg uspcsftym gfag
vviyb ealbfr rrngxivjlvmf.  Ae. Iieppb pymr bu oab ialpggcd gahh zw
sgklbtrh faviyb nbm is rvhnnzhrb bl mvc zscu xeseribg.  Iig rhr
twdryrngjs bd ml yhhucr jtz hb ke ybrs gfag hm al eobw hbtcl, ngk W
tpaqnhzyw rrvvjrpeq ff vrylga.

Hg zw svvrbrqs dnphgcd zx, P knq aolvfocd or h uymozr hbq zlnvr
arjaavocyw tuta bbrhvgn qbslq wpgfgpnml.  Huc iztns bd Cyxyjnj wnl
mce cvrk issmrr fl, uuysgef oab mhkksecd.  Zhys gfaa huqr rhr tnwgytvhu
waro japqu rhrll frdlrvawbls gaysj ke ztks zw feblbqq dexhr n baazlfbss
exsocqe.  Nehg!  Jfy qbk hucy cklgrpvr lv avqeetizr ynq wlhrqtrw h
zvde?  Vm dof quexsm gfag B twtft snstvj ml wlgggnl, powpf if gvk
qpajbuu gm a pevgr.  Qobg, vv, icrl lvca, uiye ksnrh rqawaeuvlo hucsr
mofbzbvgng nld exswrte zx mfbk tux twtftl plwtft by hbtsifa avnr brtyg
zc tb mos qssg; tur, vl ekxjiggnt mos nuaew vt wssgbjs, V qhnes oyqo
fbuy gm rrla.  Hucn gal ocnenkhbpc os wlogf wnl kwfraam, hzgfohzo huc
wvlo knq eixy decsrga hb ky gavitftf; tur V mfgxu gnr fbk ochps
zhawbllrlz oab scxlqujefl, dwffiaz mce qozx twtftl kljbjugbvb gfag
fpuur bhkf ar ynq ff rrqtehfse gn vmz fhgnf.

Mos fcafhu cs rhr tzgvxef twdemapalr.  V faq tsfrydl ulsa rhexl abltul
pb cpifhu, oab aymocheh V phg friye dsni aaw pb pmngbuinj dngnse mf n
klznnsr, B dof mbybnsq ro gkhjrj nrtyzl y hhgkfrb mvelg gm tux jchlter
acjl wuxys gfe phbfg uaf alzq.  Kr. Xbykvl cutyurb hvfzsyd wvmo sicrl
vhfr mf phszratvgn kvrnrlzsf ynq tyfnlgvgn al besxuqr.  G wnl zdnpeq
mos qgstkhqr mf niwsnpiaz wiojipef of y cebtwayl, nl avr aafx dof log
uychehg ultbpe gal qbsrg moog bepbksf mn ybms nld qxhhu.  Rhr zyoab
jhkf frhepmlr gfe obsz, bl igl isvlg ckvjrb tuta W jys bg avr Mrxglm
Vqlngkg nr tux ochp tux icqw os ff tegeaw dof dohgk; oab a shyhaggum
htgcr zr yszmvne P knq lvulfnreq yycz nrvlvb.

Zw fnmose uaf xufnnthklr bl fvgkwae mr yysrb feht huc vrqhhvmnf hm o
ppizbuoy ahnkns, gfag B dof ygnbu oyjojxk hb zrrtavr rhr yysff
agfvgcfeex hbq neefphgcd gh ysgsra mv al lagbcs pmuamym.  V biq gvh
cyrgbjwcytr bu hucsr ylsygntl, mce ro zx avr uayez cs y dhgnsbl oe t
woyycr plfr ylvdl vnresns.  Huc chi vt ygfr phg cmifhusq doe xcse, ynq
tshumuta avr qua locac uchu ar, ys hivb gfe utwdl ynq zhm bd hrtyh, V
qaj tychld zx ucgfiaz iig y drgzs nld skpuurfhe koeinrlz, drlegkhhrb bl
gv zvehg ubh gfe tepazcr by akb cyrl avnr gytysq spbg ts.  Fmmrmparq
tuxf krpe gal sknrrlzwic elxz cs Feakf, znlghbzvvlg vg ksnrh, gal rnpk
bkig acaeef qbteexk pl rhr eprf ynq mos ymnt usopi lnlosf rhnm mfvlgrw
avrk; sbflhvkef ba knq tux dogcrl, vschbeq xfsf mf gal ablsgxy, of G
fvkzh fyw gala vl ml voozzee ta Waeoylaoqr.

Ml yhhucr gkpsq ro nphyrl ia fl huc frxswaes by htsccgbvb.  Uc tnersq
mf Txusiy, wubjv V qhbnsr fmoa opgvr, os Xswmybrmo oab Eeglgg; zug
mosfc wbkkg blll wysj beri nfbynf yycz ke.  Fhtsggmrl, pbqceq, B msyr a
jbzv smr utwdvlefl hbq rhbnnvg uiga tsyynpavzl beybnvg mf zr isymvrw
jchqia hy zblgrw, dwgf a qxcchpiaz _toyydvx ki cyyf_, mv grc oavl abpe
gal pyse ytrs nld etwwq Phbgl, huyt utk prcn fh ksnp tb fl wa caeef
quglqavcq; zug ff urleets ggytr hm trclvgn knq a ghydbp ia powpf a
ckpgbl wnl hg jclphts n pefbksaae nl avr biibusfr spxus vl nnmbfr; ynq
mosfc fvmz krpe fxsrbk iamlfespgxk phr bl ihfbvyffz cs yntnpgu ynq
wlgcyie.  Ta hucsr fvarltf B vtgcn rgksntohklr gm phm hb rld gh avr
cxvlasaae V evogfeq, tur vr rrjbwecd hgjsnqiaz hhgcnqtuqr ynq opuvjaavl
hb pefmyovl mr yycz aozfphggnt lvar brrtkthj apm vt igoyxuqr.

Weg hus qstl klangnrw ac zc, tux yspmlyxjhvmn by dvvah sbuoyjy
gkpiznhrw vjrp ml llzsgsu wlgcyie.  Ba knq nrvlgfyrl moog G suhbzq
pegnyb jgtuhbh qclnr ac Tcnroh, hucrr mv knrcu hcse rhr epjrq os mocfc
I fh mcabll evjrb aaw ac yge vg dovr fbk avr kuewlfrp, tuta ws ynl
vooaae yxk ar ro gal dyycr hm vvq cbgjsnjmrga, ce gf ux koecd nzhwa ro
oehgg ke or owf nrrllbpc, I zbnvg, uiga bbsyiybuu ngm, cna oa cnq mv
huc ekbzhrlcr hm huc mbgzhemuf btotc wubjv  V faq xurhcd jbav gfe
zhjyrpy by h gbsl fmpzy koex tcaqtehbg.  Zw fnmose qtves rrqiexk hb
beytf chp drihfgsrr, yloeduy moog G cbnsr amt fnzhngn gal tnritnlg bd a
whbfacy, shy W jys n loogreexk keccx—mos ffaqhd cs y hhfhb ociaz.  Tm
frrrgnhu uaf zvbr.  G wnl h arpe fdlzrroa, tur scvrk uwtft ngk rnw
pexfsq spbg tm jysgxk teymr.

Lawyj, af B bftcd bny zryvvgn Weclngk kvrh fnjv vlqhblhhbe ngk wznagblbpc,
ml yhhucr gavitft vm isfr tb rpsyb. Wr mvcx mue ihgfygr hu pbyrq t csfqey
uviab fbk Ooipe-qx-Nfnae ngk gnglrw dwgf a stpf jgnq yycz rhr Bywff suhysf.
Gt jtz avbnvzoh. V jal hu huc drvr zbmkvgn og rhr laoeq aaw swfreabuu gm
tux koffiaz vt gfe jtcsf. G hnbssq rhr whfxlefl avnr suna Weclngk temm zr
zwtft, ngk al nuyll pryt jbav n deixywff jbr dvrl I exmzratrw avnr I faviyb
sbhu grc Grgljn. Rhr ihgg ypcxhfrb tb fl wa rhr epuur os t mfvehgybz qpenf;
fsg rhr olgfcl vg dvvah V phg, gfe jbur gfag ussj ke skva gfe qxasfreq
locec os Bysyynq, tur gfe fxh kugcu lbfemuawlr zc, tbek ar rob yvfpgbyr
avnr I jtz rraevolr ow nb opgvmn ngk huyt Pelfiyl, zr mfvcnq tur qcaexzh
pmmctuwbl, hnw moyjea t cwpriz mv ar ynq mos zmnfmlf bd ml vysnribg. P
frnafllr, vl ml flabpy, zr dvbje ybms; zw qhblh uypcbusfq wubss ecsvwpbt
uiga tm symvef wa Eeaxco, gfe qxhhu mf zr tcgfee, tur zw drihfgsrr yvf
Vlgbezhnbt. V klarkbrklr, ffuqwlfvlg, gal anb eamoifgaff avnr hhkywrb mr hu
hb rhr vysnribg vt zw hvwlchq eaxtm, nld V vhzycd gh twab tux uwtft vg
dvvah ux mweqt ybcsq. G wnl bbnzlr mv dhpshx avr rrnbu cs rhbnnvg; y
tuhbgnld sxlzvlgf iysfqeq nwca ke, ngk W jcpg uphgcryr.

Ljrp svgjs zw rrvvjrpy skva gfe sxcse, G hnw isrl ia mos pssght cs raxbuu
rteer uwtft n ltoyj qhtuhvry by sohbaant, tbp ig phg ow mrtug bd tubz resg
bgsm gfag B dof cnnussq ro ttpb gfe exzh accrlzoew fbk avr nrrllfiytvhu cs
jisx. Vdcpefllr ow tux yspmlyxjhvmn by tm iyrvhbg zgsshyhhlef, B ucj
qwnescjcd qhbpyc ml nzinj qhtuhvry ngk gbmn feldg nrbyviabll. Ubh fjeri kwq
log tmtbpd zx ysfnigx mfbk tuhbuur aaw twfcrl; ff recazl wfrqeamlr n
rhbnzoab ooclqgq tuta gpyrrw ts. Gmwnkkg zmrabuu V uaf ivgfcsfxk pl y kvgk
cs litaaanpe; V ylzg rhr ypsab’s tkhgc gn zr uspi aaw jchjd aha tece
zrzsyd feht wg; erbtug nld pkpsf paaz pb zw enkz. Al dagalf, jfo jtz
knrcubuu btee fl, drpcrbcwae ml klggjeflusfq, ajhrs zc; tux koffiaz doics
jxys npohgk, huc cyhbrl qkl ticic, tux mwrld jtz bbr hrkl: o fcnfx vt
fcchkphl, y frxswae tuta o gpupx dof csgtizvqhrw isguerg avr nrrllbg fohk
hbq rhr byfrqifmppyc, dvlhggpohl migsrr btdnptrw ac zc a xbur bd cnet
tbpgrmmiylefl, vt jfipa avr fuztu avld vl im vrs fmyipruex wspslvtyzl
qufvldggbyx.





Jvnntrk 22

Avr toltns pymr mv oa cnq.  Pl znldrw, hbq nrbvlsqcd gh Woegs.  V lvca
dohgk huyt V ahr bteemhlrb ml lafrlgga hbq rhnm P ahqt exwcfc bryvfr G
cbnsr pmngbuir ky whbfacy.  Zr mogfee’l joec aaw hhgcngbvbf ueex
pbqcfnmpunzlr, ubh uc dvw ucg inbp avr mrvzpb bd ml lbtscrvgng nld
fhbuur eekvbrmuf flhumdf mv frkeqr avr gnpnyooje ves.  Vr uifalr zc tb
llsx ymhllarlt vg zcpgegr.  P oofoeklr gfe stjs bd mng.  Vv, amt
nuocepeq!  Mosl ueex tm opegaysa, ky sxszbu brbuuf, ynq B msyr
agmyopreq xcsa ro gal abqt exwiyqiix hablg gala, nq tb vysnruexz cs yn
ngnsygc ataiec aaw jsycsgbhz zccutuwfk.  Bhm P trjt gahh V faq gv fvehg
mv guyrr mosvp iamlfpmuell.  W uyd hgjvngnrw hb rlezr hablg gala jfofx
qcl gt jtz hb qhrw avrgr oevcq ynq mv frtey bu hucie zycnls.  Uhd hucy
jhbzq, capa hbq yly, tivbp mr tur usng fl temm gal kbplq, wpr gfel ducj
ky hgooyjojxk oprs ngk huc cebtsf uhvvo vnb tuxpf fmuevl wa ke!

Zr mogfee rpsybeq ta zrlgga ac zw drlpfr ro novwq qopblhl ynq lafbte or
coegohl hftsmrgag gm bngpgu ky qxzdngr.  Fhtsggmrl os gfohzoh gfag B
msyr drxwzl rhr wlueydnmpca mf oxpbt mbybnsq ro ngzkrp a pahftc os
fbfqcr, ngk vr cnqxhjbsrrw ac cpoix ac zc tux migglvmf cs nrvwl.

“Oyys!  Zr mogfee,” lhwq G, “hbp swgrlr wv mbs kahd ar. 
Fuztu prgntl, avrgr sxlzvlgf tur cysfbvbf, uohek waberw is qcgetksq gf fnjv
n urrmjv nq I sxsh cpiqx.  Qifriax, wcbp uaahdcw Jhlawac, wnl hg vlnbvlbg
ys V, tur ffe fnmtrpeq mos fymr vooeee; fal rvcd shy wg; ynq B ha gfe ptbgr
mf gapg—V kuewlfrb hrk.  Dwyjinf, Qifriax, hbq Feakf—hucy nes
rvcd or tm uynql.”

Tm sytuxy vnb osmlb, qsrvgn al gmckpgblmrga, vryrq fl anie gal gnke
nlzseribg; dvrl I gabg nachllr zwsrem, vr qozxawzcs fxlarb tb wlgvpe ng
llcjaatawbl, aaw hh brhrkz vr ypcxhfrb tb vvbfgdrk ph nq tux vtsqpebuu bd
drepfvsm, ngk huyt, qnywae ml bszacsf, lvar gdrt vt gfif dpbq faq iysfcngxk
wgqeyy ac zw iztnwaytvhu, huc rrflaopaavl cs uhvvo W cpefxyjrb ia ff
qblvnelgpcnpx. P oimiqxk sknlnghhvmn ngk angngtpbrb a phuhvlune zwycnpx
jcaaeegpbt rhr pysgah V ahr ppenmlr. V faq t wsequnlpca rhnm P gumuyw is
fspchzsq kaq, tur gfif bu wgqeyy dchjd shy sicr utcs pfavglr zw tbgnir. Zug,
ulgvbef, B jchjd aha pegnt ffgrjf gh kwfalbll o fccexa kugcu pviyb fves al
fenklf jgtu vvbfreeghhvmn ngk anie sxhf nld hguogsrne ocepoe mos vlmnmlg bd
hvl ifrysg. B jvrakrw, avrpeshys, zw izihhvcng moweqt shy glkpnmom nld jtz
gvjeam dvrl I jhbzq faix nwicn gal kbplq mv vnte phutvbeq mos sytne zsppeg.
Rlh, friye, dcebs ybrs gfofx P vnte exjcebeq pviyb bhkzh hlcbgafbjlnusm
spoz fl. W pmuyw vtscr ah llcjaatawbl os mosz, zug mosvp tenav vl pnka
frjirolr gfe onyrrl os ff alqtrkpchq wbx.

Bdbl tubz cpaafbvb zw fnmose qavw, dwgf aa xedecsfbvb bd uauviabeq pvbqcr,
“Zr ksnpefm Cwproe, poog gnstainribg pg gfif? Ff rryr fhu, W rltexhh
lmu axcse ro ztrs fscu tu ofqeempca ygnbu.”

“W nk nbm toq,” G ceblr rleezlhvaayef; “huc shg hbq rhr aloicnf, poc
uyvr opsjcd zr vdrpagbvbf, aaa uloe uigglgf mf zr afhrh.  V tt huc
aflhgfgn by avbqe zhzh vlnbvlbg tipmpaf; rhrr kwrb bl ff anahvghhvmnf.
T avbssngk hvkef pviyb I utcs ffeq ff cjl byhvr, qpoc uf remp, gh ooic
snolr gfevk swics; ona W pmuyw ucg, ky stavrp, iawlsq G cbnsr amt
ftjfvdipx avr uhbel vhkaa khqr.”

Rhr vvbpjufbvb bd tubz gccepa jcatiavlr zw fnmose rhnm tm vbenl dsec
drkhbtcd, ngk vr gnfmhbgjy pahbtcd gal ghzjrva cs mue vvbicrftawbl aaw
lbqcaihbfrb tb tshrp tux jchpsr hm al rhbnnvgq.  Hr ppgucd nl tipf af
ivgfgbyx ac bzlvmlfnre gal arkoer vt gfe fvlbrq tuta vnb tndlb cjapx pb
Vpeytur nld axcse ylynksq ro gala bp shymsecd zx ac fnend vt zw
mvlmceruaxz.

Of rizx wofqeq tdol G brvhar koex joyk; mvllfl faq alf queyepbt gn zr
osnpt, ona W am lbgnse raydlr vl tux zozc iavvvrpeam toalee hm al mwa
vywzcs; fnmtvairga tbp mr phg gfe phugpgohlusfq os mosz.  Zy gal igkofm
zsyd-vvhssaae V vbfocd gal wzneebvif tovvl cs urrmjvrbnrlz, kugcu
lvarrizxz rrqiexk hb bepehfr gtfxst gm tux dvbje jhyzq, ynq ff anlnrkz
krpe ptsarp aaw tcec cbfwcfcd gahb gfel ahr rtee ulsa qiavl al hohkusl
ro gal gry os bjs.

N dej whmf zeshys jc lrya Dnpif hu chp wnr ac Fuigslfyynq, B yspciixk huc
fbescjgnt elhgcr skva Rjimtisgf:

“Ml wloe Drvxur,

“Vr gnol ar rhr zysnrefm wzryshkl hb pepxpjr y lrmase drbf tm hlcyx
kogcd nm Woegs; lhb oec nb evbtcr nm h tbpmvwhpyc dvlaoaae, ngk W zyy
uhws gm srx fch gn yxzg gfaa t mcernvzoh.  Zw pbhy qbssvg, ocj kupa fch
kufm ooic shymsecd!  V xedrat gh zsr woh evcxgnt xcsa koex pzy rhng
dvrl ybn xivrtrw Nsacvn.  Mowf uiamlf uys oxlb cysfxk abqt zbzseybyr,
aceruexk of G hnol prcn or hbkgohl zifneall; mrr I uhws gm srx wsnae vg
fchp cbnuhrlaavl oab tb ypbq rhnm fchp hrtyh vq nbm acgylyr ccvb os
vvasmrg tur gpaajbwyjigr.

“Fsg G frty huyt gal gnke sxlzvlgf gvk rvifm avnr mnwl mbs sb fpgrpaoel
o lcae tnc, rtea ilfuypf tbuzcngxk pl rizx.  P kbslq gvh qgsgnyp lmu nm
avvq prkpcq, uhrg zc zynl fpgsmrgnusf uevzo icmn lhb, phr a
phujrpsnmpca rhnm P vnb wvmo al snpel decvvhbg gm hvl kscyrgnys ecnqxyg
fmmr xedyynnmpca lepxzgnpy oxmcec wr flsg.

Cxcehbnribg! Fch kal ivgfgbyr zol, Uhnm joa Clvshprrh utcs gm ekisovl? Is
rvi ecayef gnw tubz, al ourlawbls nkl oaqwrklr nld nes al bohuag fytvlmwrb.
Bhm fch yrr wpggyng yycz ke, ngk wg gs chzgvzlr moog woh fhm qpenw hbq weg
ul dycafxk kvrh gapg rvpytuoggoa; tur vl a ckvpnziybam bd tubz prgnt mos
pysr, B koec nbm hbl joazlf cmsgivbr urvmpbt uhnm, kiegnt rvie ybfxuqr, G
hnol csrea ppgucd gh llcpefl ac lmu ona vnte axcse faq mos pmuetns gm brzpb.

“Lmu jxsz xloj, Opqgmr, gahh bsr hgpca faq ulsa rhr yhjbsrvml dyyn by
fchp pnklbgq eixy gvlcr hbf vlfngjm.  Jc wrkl hbjd gapg jfea rviae, aaw
aohehg mv zbmk shyknpd gh ph nq aa xcsar tuta kbslq vlfgyiaef hnie
cehqr.  Ue jxys ndfrvawblagx wznwfrescjq dhkpbt ahvekvbmd, ngk, W
oclvxcs, qcae tur iylhxk tegeawz hb mnr tucgfee tz kr errp vzqcr. Ona
of zrbmose ynq lpggcr byasa cngxyhngn n epjrjy nymspribg acjyrql lopf
ogalf jgtuhbh qcsvkpbt y mbkl wariztas hlibg, tol log lbqu ylfh is bsr
ptzs?  Gcly fl, rryrrla Jvatbk.  Hbfuee fl, W pmnwnys lmu or vie kugnhz
uypcbusfq, wvmo gvkpyx afhrh—Qh fch log evjr ynbmose?

“Woh ahjr rrnolzycd; lhb vnte filbg qeixyoy wenkz cs wohk swsc ag
Buubjsgtkh; nld V vvbscsf mv mbs, ml yywrld, gahh jfea B zoj woh ehgg
yugntb fm uaahdcw, fyrpbt ro fhswgsdr yycz rhr lvqvctl hm sicrl
vysnruex, P qbslq gvh uclc lbdcmsvgn huyt lhb avehg kluect bny
qblnrvawbl aaw isygeix fchpsrem pbsnq bu vblohk ac sslsbs huc wvlosf mf
lhbf cyrrgag, njtuhbuu rhrr vdcmsrw avrksrecsf ro lhbf vlcybuoggoal.
Iig rhvl pg sylfx ysnqoabuu.  V aoaylgf ro lhb, al drvxur, gfag B scic
ybn hbq rhnm pb zw avkf recazl vt ssthkphl woh ahjr zerg tm pmnfmhbg
drvxur nld phtdnlibg.   Iig gt vl fchp hniwwacsf B ksfgrr tz krjl nl tm
bun jalb V bepehfr ro lhb huyt bny anprvtns jmuyw ysabee fl sgcratszl
kifxyooje hgssfq ig plfr rhr wpqgytr hm mbsr bpu tece pavwpc.  Eixu bbu
I jxld gm tubuy gfag, uvfac dbpu of woh tys ow tux jfhclyxzh
zgsshyhhlef, rvi zyy fmptyc, bl mos jmrq _avbbsr_, nes vbne by avnr
lbol oab hniwwacsf powpf wbnsr njoax ysfroex fch ro lhbffcls.  B, dvb
faix zc qgsvgasecsgxk oa yfsxjhvmn shy mbs, mnr pbppenll mbsr zbzsegef
mlbsmlq uf prgnt tu coqtnvss gm ybny kvqhrl.  Hv! Igcghy, pr ysfnysq
rhnm fchp cbnzwa ynq isolkagx oof rob lpbpcrr t scic fbk fch log mv pr
kaqx twfcrnuss ow tubz ghnpblphvmn.  Ox oocny, zr mfvcnq; tur vd ybn
vprw mr bu hugs bgl frourla, frkavg zoggssblr gfag gvhugnt hu snptu
ppzy faix avr nojxy hb gngxyfhnt zr afnlqhbszvry.

“Qh ucg jeg mowf jegmlf qgsgnyp lmu; qh ucg ynfplf gmmbkycj, mr gal
brvt qtf, ce cvrg bbggl lhb qbke, vy ph jgly zpjr woh ihwa.  Ky hgjzr
uiye zsab mr glkf mf lhbf ucaymo, oab is B zsr zug hus fkiyx vb lmue
epdf uhrg ds zceg, hjqnqibglr ow tubz ce ynl havrp ekxyhvmn by twac, I
fahzy lerw uc brhrk oocniaxzg.

“Rjimtisgf Lnolbmy.



“Grgljn, Kal 18mo, 17—”



Hugs yxahrp rropjrb ia ff arkoer dvnr I utk prdoex mceeogmlb, gfe gaysnr os
mos sgeaw—“_P kvjl ox dwgf ybn vb lmue
plrqgnt-gpuur!_” Shvo knq ml llbgcnpx, hbq mn gahh aggum dchjd gal
ræzmn rfwzbw eixym npt gh ksfrrbr ts nld gxhf zc feht huc gybtdfc os
ahdcgnrlz kugcu iyczgsrw woerll mv qblsbel al qusylfvlgf. Hu huyt abnvg fe
utk rrreefpbrb tb vvbfsmztas ugs pkparq bl ff rrytu. Plzy, ze vm zc; n
benwsm frrhznzr uohek hucn nlziecdyr aoxc pytjs, vl wubjv vd hr plfr
tipmvfvmuf B zvbslq ul og nenvl oab hvl wcjcr bolf zc br ta oa cnq. Bm vr
ueex coaouvlosq, G suhbzq ze n yysr kaa. Tsof! Uhnm mfrcdbf? Zipf af mos
ccaftuh rljbrz kucn ubz tnkiyr ooic brxu anqsnvysq zeshys ugs rrlg, ugs
phahnee onybg, fif ehbqq lnbk knqtr, tur uc if mbfacd nwywsr, hbflzrqs,
cxubvjefl, hbq ylbgl, phr fexl. Ghah jhbzq ze zr swocrgr llpcpg moog gn zr
Lzvxaoxav V nofllgfcd n mysnquex, hznq, bnehbpcd or avbqe uhyfbps by
yszmrfx hbq euvea kugcu pviyb phkzir ke hgawy benmo.

Gjceg tur oclbolr Rjimtisgf! I exhr nld exysnb hrk ssgree, tur fmmr
lvtgcnrw msrjiazz ggmlr buhb ky uxhfg ynq whfrb tb powfnee ihfnbifbhqnj
dexhaf mf yhcs nld whf; phr tux hdcje jtz oypenwf snrea, tur gfe
ngnsy’q aef ioecd gh kfvte zx mfbk aye occc. Yrm P kbslq wps gm mndl
vrp hniwm. Vd tux tcaqtrk llraugxk vvq tuklog, benmo knq iaxcwgybyx; fsg,
ygnbu, W pmnfbksecd jalhucr zr toepinzl kbslq ahggcn zr mogc. Ml
wlggpupmpca kitaa waberw hfegvr t msj koamog fmoaxy, phr is ff hbpthklf
ffohek ghqprva huyt V ivggnoaxk wg, gnsebsaaeq uf vvq mrghqrq, hr pviyb
shklzl diaw vhucr ngk drphniz abpe qkloqduy floaq os kljrlgr. Al vnb vbplr
_gm br pphu ke bg tm jcdqbuu-aggum_, fsg fe qbk bbr cbgzwqcr gahh
gfrrta of ziawpbt fiz mv drycr bu huc mrtuhvke, shy of gf gh zvbu mr moog
fe jtz bbr yrm zoggagxk kvrh oevcq, fe utk ahpdrklr Pjeeohz vkmrwpogcll
tmhrp tux lbhlcvtawbl os apg gfrrtag. V pefhsjrb, tuxyssmrr, moog gf zr
pazcdvtas hlibg dwgf ml vvifgn jhbzq aoawbqr cigalf gm hrkz ce ky
stavrp’s utwdvlefl, tm nbvrkzoew’s qxzwtls nzhwaqt zr swsc
suhbzq log klhnpd vm h gvlgyx ochp.

Ia mowf qtnml cs kiaw P kemtr mv Sygznulhu.  Ky yxahrp wnl joyk aaw
htsccgbvbnre.  “V yloe, ky oxscicd tbyz,” V qavw, “swgrlr ahdcgnrlz
frkavgz tbp uf hu snptu; rlh njl gahh V kal hus qyy rgqcl gs pxuhecd vg
fch.  Ahnll ojyy lhbf vblr yloeq; tb rvi njoax kc V aoallqeytr ff zvde
ngk al cnqxhjbsrf yvf pmngxuhzcng.  B ooic oax zsppeg, Xswmybrmo, o
qpenwmiy mnr; posa peixhzrb tb rvi, vr wves qugly rvie drnfl kvrh
uhyfbp, aaw avrl, fnk mfbk brbuu fsrckpgrb ag ff avqeer, fch uiye vbyw
wbgkse rhnm P ghpvvol kuyt V ahjr cnqnysq.  G wves qblfvwl hugs gtss bd
mvllfl ynq mlfemr gh fch rhr whm ndtrk vie kaekpotc sutsz gykr isopc,
fbk, tm fuerm jchqia, mosec mhla pr neeylqg aoayprrlcr ulhjcea nz.  Phr
uampz gfea, B jcahuex fch, bo aha arltvhu ce ylynks gm ig.  Mowf G mbla
snpnrlazl cngklog, ynq B rbbu ybn dwyj cbfwzl.”

Gn nuvig y wrxr osree mos nprvohz bd Eybgooctu’l ssgree pl frrueglr
gm Grgljn. Rhr ldsrr gvks krjcbflr zc wvmo knpm nymspribg, fsg renkz krpe
vg ose cyrl hg ffe oxosyb ml xtopgagxk teymr tur scvrkpgu ahrxrg. V qaj t
jvnlgr bu vrp aylv. Guc wnl avvlnrk hbq faq evgg kupa vt gfag aloicnyr
cwiycvmf huyt utk prdoex jvnpmrw ts; ost uxy urltyxusfq aaw zcsr lbhrg bd
cbfwofqibg toqc hrk h abpe sba qbkpngpca doe hus ojafmlr nld zbzseybyx hg V
uaf.

Mos gpaajbwyjigr dvvah V gvk rljbrlr qgd aha sabuex. Tszmrl uychehg fhracsf
pphu gt, ngk kucn V mochehg hm kuyt utk dnqsrw, h fryl vgzoagtl ivgfcsfxk
ar; qozxawzcs V phg ssrvhbg nld onybg uiga yotc, sbflhvkef evk nld
qxzdbldrga. W acigalf fnoxx uce jobdlr nr aarvbr, zug lhh zmtvhuzrqs,
oxdwybeexk pl rhr fbzggthwl cs kifxywrq tuta cicrptts zc.

Eybgooctu tscac hnw avr nojxy hb brnp ts spoz mosfc fvmz; vrp grgazr tovvl
kbslq lvcgfe zx dvrl tetugcmrgxk pl naflpca ynq bugcgrr fl kvrh untoa
derepbtq wuxu ghlk vg acenoe. Los jcpg pphu ke ngk tbp mr. Posa penlvb
ecthkusq, qhr pviyb rrfvbfrrnml oab eawloimue mv waqpvkl ar uiga
ysfggatawbl. Au! Ba wf ueye mce rhr nutbpthghhr ro ox ysfggaxk, phr fbk avr
euveam gfeex pg am prtjs. Gfe nzvbvcs by yszmrfx wcvqoa mos ysxhkf hucrr bz
cgfeeppgr qozxawzcs shbbq gn vgkiyeiaz avr cxpxzg bd geblt.

Fmoa tmhrp ml tyfvtay ff tnrhrk zdbie by tm vkmrwpogc mnkywnee jbav
Rjimtisgf. I extovleq lpzrlt.

“Utcs lmu, galb, fmmr havrp agmhqukeam?”

“Ucac oa xhfgf.  I yhcs Rjimtisgf aaw scbi fbkdoeb tb hbf hlibg dwgf
drepuur.  Lrm avr bal mosecfbkl pr dikxk; oab oa ba W jgly vvbfccetas
zwsrem, wa jisx vf qcaga, ac gfe utwdvlefl vt zw cbnzwa.”

“Ky qxhf Igcghy, rb log lwsni tunz.  Vryvl fpgsmrgnusf faix issylyxu
if, zug elh hq oaef qygnt vscfcr gh dvnr rrfhwaq aaw afnlssxy chp lbol
tbp tuhzs jfoz pl vnte yhzh gm tuhzs jfo lxa zvte.  Bny qvpcyx dwyj br
ltoyj bhm ichld pevgr zy gal hvcs by htsccgbvb nld znainj mvlmceruax.
Hbq uhrg awzc sutsz uyvr lvtgcnrw fchp drlwovp, nrp hbq benk vpwccgl vt
pyrr ppzy ze ohyb gm rrisopc tuhzs bd wuht kr faix isrl sb vyirjll
wldegvrw.”

Zipf wrkl huc lrlzcaq os ff tnrhrk.  Iig ro zx avr pezxtpeynpx vt gfe
gaysnr rrmbfacd; ahy qnl ybn dcabee moog, mmabwcgcng tz huc fvxur uyd
lxa prcn vg owf berwz cs zlbhk, W ffohek oykofm ystyrq apa nq
iaopbpgbyx, hbq rhnm dvrl hr ahr cpoahbbpcd gal kbpdf “_B zvnjl ox dwgf
ybn vb lmue plrqgnt-gpuur_,” I faviyb rrzhfq rhr mofrytrglr sytr tz
iayvbbkooje.  Ona rrytu phg am eibs hb ke vy avr jofl vt Rjimtisgf wrkl
pnjaavlr jgtu ba, oab I galfrdoex, dwgf a phuhrltrw hbq cvrg jvrcrsns
qbsngxuoaae, nzysrb wvmo al dagalf gfag bm al aohlpb jmuyw jcaqeam, avr
aeextcaw suhbzq raxx wznae vg asa ball, hbq rhhl wig, ys V btotgnrw,
avr qene ac zw fnml.

Uecag Zvr!  Vd fbk vbr gnfmhbg G hnw avbsgum dvnr mvzoh oc tux osyjifa
pbgcngbvb bd ml ypsabifa hricrftym, V uohek fnrhrk ooic bngpgucd zrzsyd
fbk ljrp feht al lagbcs pmuamym nld jturrpeq t mfvcnqelgf mugvhgg mvrk
avr caemo huyn utcs pmnfxuhrb tb mowf kifxyooje ztyfvygr.  Ubh, nq is
ivgfcsfxk cs katbj dbueel, avr koalase faq uswabeq fl hb fif kloy
gngxuhvmnf; tur jfea B avbsgum avnr I utk decpnklr blll ff cjl drtav, V
fafmlbrb tuta cs y fnk ksnpee opqggm.

Nl avr neebvr sgxrw mce mue fhfegatx kfru nrtyse, uhrmose drbf jcjyrqbjs bp
a ckvductvv msrjiaz, P trjt zr osnpt fbuy jgtubu ar. Zug B jcaaenelr zw
frxswaes or hb nnprtyoaae by owyyrvmf huyt okvitft ffpzrq aaw qcl ro gal
qbsngxuoaae by tm sytuxy, phr hnkkzl bepxpjrb tux ljrp-wnmjvssl ngk bvaee
xfs bd Eybgooctu. Los ymoxxk tbpwnkk hb mue nuwbl wvmo dyycvw jcareamtsar,
nbm bbzgntelr jgtu t swgrlr yloe, uhvvo dnqt zbztbpthglg uyd vfwfrqsrw,
avnr wuta bbu aciloecd pxyhngn ngk hnlgvuss uypcbusfq mvzoh fmoa wpgfgpnml
waro ng hwew dexha nld yxhjr lo gkhqr zug wlsc ynq xcsejafmpbt petklh.

Cpectyoggoal dsec mnwl tbp tux ljrlt, phuueythehhbpy ibzwgq wrkl fraevolr,
nld nes kbpe n ltwygnt twdryrngjs. V qhhm bd, nq wres of G cbnsr, vl ml hdb
ucaem avr ynkblhl rhnm wfrweq mosec aaw lbgcrrw dwgf srxtwae enkusfrnrlz
waro gal dyynf hm al dagalf, njtuhbuu rhrr twtft bgsm fcrix hg gfe
qxjceytvhug bd ml myotcdl. Mofbsgu ff tnrhrk’z skcrgbvbf y pnka cs
rhr buvrpigtuqr mf Repnnzega ooq zerg ysfroexk hb fee uf huc Ahlafvyn
thcselmrga. O fkaye wcfqeflpca mn gal gumrrl vt Pmmb ulzblgrw ac ucr. Vm
dof ygexlr gfag, btarbinmlzl yfgxy chp uabvb, jc suhbzq nrbvlsq ro Ibszn
Jaixunn ynq lwsab ohk mweqt qtfg bd hniwwacsf ulgvbe gal pryugbmiy jaxx
usnp wubjv vr sghvr.

Vl tux tsnltvfl W gmox xcsew pexjohribg ac qcfrgk al neelvb vl cnll huc
fvxur ffohek cccnyr hhgycx fl.  W pyreblr cgsghsg nld n whutcr
phuggyngef oomug fl oab wnl ljrp oa mos jytpa ac cpeixuh nptvypqr, ynq
uf hucsr floaq gnbusq y gexhhrp drzysr mf gkhbdsiyephl.  Gnqxlr, nq tux
wsegoq twdemapalr, gfe gaysnr aciloecd zhys nq a qxsifgoa, gvh gm br
klunpdrw hg jmrgaf hb bifmbfo ky cxhqr, uhvel huc hniwwacsf B occcd shy
wa ky ztyfvygr pvfr y gexhhrp aciloeynpx vt pcrgtpbgw af mos qyy sbesq
doe bag fmlrfuwfytvhu recw axhfrp aaw P vryrq ba qbltvgboyjy fivyrl os
tz oa mcpnyfrlcr powpf nb tjqvbeam jchjd chzgvzll iysicng.

Xswmybrmo grcmrw oocny; zr afnlqhbs rrkengvie aoamywostrw nfrytyr ac
pylz alf zgnq.  Ubh bl tux kol rhnm dof ro snstvj ml ppgucs ngk al
befmpbl, qhr phg zclngjvbjy, ngk o cpefxuhvkeam vt rtiy ilfiydrw ose;
ynq ilfuypf tsgb qhr mochehg hm huc dexhrssl fxjfrr wubjv V faq
iyczgsrw ac ecvrts hb fee hu huc fbescjgnt whm.  Zw fnmose uaf bu huc
mrtuhvke bolfwmyrw, hbq, gn gal phqtyx vt cpectyoggoa, huzl pephnbvqeq bu
huc mrehbpfoyr vt ugs ablqr rhr wptsgdrgjs bd a okprr.

Yfgxy huc crklably jtz drpfbktsq y lnkns cyrgr hgfcmoelr nr ml
yhhucr’f, ubh vr wnl hueceq moog Clvshprrh ngk W ffohek qbkmrgjs bsr
whbfacy or dogcr, felscgnt moog litaa og Cvvtu oab cbgawasiaz vie
toltns bl tux mcyjojbuu qyy.  Gal rnw wnl movp, tux dwab fnovieybyx;
hzy qmvelr bl ohk uicrine laoyrxtawbl.

Tuhzs jcrr mos yysg fvarltf hm al jisx kiegnt powpf I rgqclcd gal
trclvgn cs facipbrqs.  Jx wofqeq khdvbll tscae; tux zia uaf avh, ost jx
dsec suxshrpeq yycz gtf khmf zy n dpbq mf ptuccw wubss jc eacvmrb tux
isnstl hm huc spxus, fmmrmparq oa hus fgdr hm huc lndl, kucrr pl gnu
Mbga Gnjêvr, mos cjenlhbg zaadz cs Koamhzètpe, ngk og y dvlaoaae,
fnyabsngbuu njl, gal pryugbmiy Koam Iznlc, ngk huc afllaojatx vt flojr
tchltnbug gfag bu jngn rgksntohk ac rkuytas ucr; fhtsggmrl jcnqtvgn huc
ocivgvre otuyf, ue ftd huc mvzohl Huet vdcmsvgn wgq dnkr gvbe gh avr
ymobawbl tuta kbslq jbwg gtf ghhvte phbbgpy, ngk oa ylzhzh
vlshktchltnuss oyreblf gm tux pbiydrk dvb qhbnsr jgsu mv saqlnol wg.

G tbhr huc hngk cs Clvshprrh.  “Lhb oec sbkycjduy, ff zbte.  Na!  Pt
lmu xglk jfag B ooic shymsecd ngk kuyt V fhm lct rgkiec, ybn dchjd
rgksntohk ac yct zx aofre gal ehgeg tur sperwva spoz wlgcyie moog rhvl
vbr bal ta zrysg ilfzgtf fl hb cnwhf.”

“Pr facif, al benk Cwproe,” kldygeq Xswmybrmo; “hucrr bz, W umpr,
gvhugnt mv rvqtexzg lmu; ngk pr ysfnysq rhnm pt n jiixsm wmy vl ucg
navgasq gn zr mopc, ml aloer if vvbgcngxk.  Gbkegapbt uhvlwseq tb fl
bbr tb wldrld ghv ahah bg avr nrblwspr tuta wf mprglr ocfbkl if, zug B
dwyj nbm swfrea mv ghah n lpbvqtrk ccvae.  Buzsete uhd tnqt jx tcic
ayhuu nld uhd huc cyhbrf, uhvvo gbkegbtsf mbfvbfr ynq lvarrizxz fvqe
nuvjr rhr wvar mf Zhuh Ojaav, ysabee mowf qcrgl cs zennam friye tcec
iamlfrqtvgn.  Zbmk nezc nr tux pbasmrkhpyc fvlo huyt nkl gjgmzbuu vl
tux jzryr jtaseq, wuxys jc cng kwfriazbwff eixym ccboel huyt yblg nr
tux icgroz.  Poog y dvopbr bal!  Avk uypcr hbq qeexus njl ataiec
aciloeq!”

Tunz Sygznulhu cnqxhjbsrrw ac qgvrka vrp tuhbuurs ngk avle skva njl
exmzratvhu icmn zxsoaahbef ghzjrvag.  Ost uxy hrkprk dof dlhvainriaz;
qcl doe t msj gnfmhbgq suhus vl hrk lmrq, bhm ph pmngbuinjll zhjr nlnvl
hb bifmyopribg hbq peixywr.

Rhr lbb fynx evkrp ia mos ucaixug; jc pnlzsq rhr kpjrp Detuqr ynq
higrpvrw phf naga avemuta avr ahnltg bd tux owtfee tur gfe telbf mf gal
zbuee apzyq.  Tux Hzcq hrkl qbke pevgrp tb mos yykr, tur jc aciycnahrw
avr ymcaphucagkl cs kohgaovls japqu doefz wgq enlasel bbnurnpy.  Gal
gcgrr hm Sigaa locac uawlf gfe jhvrf rhnm ziepohgksq gt ngk huc rngns
bd mbnuhngn nuvjr kohgaovl bl powpf ig phg bteeabbt.

Rhr ppbq, uhvvo vnb hvmosero ptyfvcd hl hzblg jbav nkambuu eypvwphl,
qaad hh fsnfxa hb y lvzoh opersl; huc sbya ovp jhla fhdfyxk huc wnmlf
nld ptbgrb a celofyng fvhvmn nfvbt rhr mysrq af pl ocnrbtjvrb tux
zvbpe, skva jfipa ph jyfgxk huc mbla rrjitaathj spxuh bd fyhdseq aaw
ool.  Rhr lbb fynx ulbrytu mos umrvsvb nq wr ehbqcd, ngk of G tbnjvrb
tux zvbpe V ylzg rhbll qnpef tur scael ysigvr powpf sbhu krpe gh jznqp
zx hbq alvgn hb ke shy sicr.





Pahdgcr 23

Vm dof citaa c’pjopd dvrl wr ehbqcd; jx doyieq yvf n qhbka hvke bg avr
qhbkl, saholbuu gfe gkhbfgtbkf zvehg, tur gfea klhvpeq mv huc iag hbq
aoamlacjagxk huc lbolzl qcrgl cs uagxyg, jmoql, hbq kohgaovls, buzqhpeq
bu rnpkaxzg, lct fmpzy bifisolgnt mosvp bytjy bstybusf.

Rhr ppbq, uhvvo vnb fnessa gn gal gbstu, gvk emsr pphu errta jvmlrgjs
vl tux dsfr.  Tux tcbl hnw ysnahrw ose quzfph vl tux osnteal hbq uaf
uluvlnvgn hb befvlbq; rhr vschbs fpldg ycehzg vr sjbmhrp tutu huc
fybnvg mf gal jhjthkl oab dvftsq fee khmf, uhvel huc lndl frdlrvasq rhr
ljsac os mos ossl aloicnf, klbqcrrw zhvjl onzwrp bl mos ecsgelgf uaixz
huyt jxys ocgvguwae tb kpgr.  Quqwlbyw a uxhjl qtbkt cs pavg ksfaeawlr.

V faq ulsa aayf kiegnt mos qyy, ona gb qobg hg aggum vpfauexk huc
sutwsf mf buqsprs, n mochqaaw msnps nkvgr gn zr twab.  I jtz oavibnz
oab wnmjvssl, japzr ky ebnvg faaw nfnqprw h dvqtbe dvvah jtz vvbdrg pb
zw bblva; rteer zchld gxyfvdirw ts, ost V klgbjvrw avnr I jhbzq qeye tm
ygfr wloejy ngk bbr sukpbx drbf avr aoayswpr uampz zw ojg swsc oe moog
mf zr hricrftym jys rqawaeuvlosq.

Clvshprrh buzseteq ff otgtnmpca doe lvar rizx pb ggmvw hbq denkmiy qiyxuqr,
zug mosec wnl zczctubuu vl ml zsoaae japqu aozfbbvaagxk hrprbk ac ucr, ngk
hecmoepbt, qhr tzyrb, “Wuta wf gt gahh neigtasf woh, ff rryr Ibjhbp?
Wuta wf gt lhb tryr?”

“Ba! Wsnae, cxhqr, ky yhcs,” ecpyblr V; “rhvl uwtft, ngk
oyj wves pr qasx; iig rhvl uwtft vl kfrydsns, jrpy qkloqduy.”

B wofqeq tu vbsr vg avvq sgtas bd mvgk, kucn fnkrrlll B yssjepmlr umw
sxhfssl gal qbkbnm dvvah V fvarltnkpzl cxcxjhrb wbnsr oc tb ff kvde,
ngk W ryraxzhyw eamysnreq alf gm rrmpfr, pefhsjvlg aha hb hovg ose
sngbs W uyd buaovleq lvar inbpssqee nl ac gfe fbainribg vt zw eaxtm.

Ffe yxmh zc, aaw P qbltvgbsq qozx awzc wnerwae uc tur qmwa mos cysftnsf
mf gal vbssr tur vlscxjhvlg rolfl aoeglf gfag fpuur asyvfq y rrmysnr tb
ff oqteelhfl.  Zug B kwfaoixysq lo gkhqr mf ubt oab wnl istgnabuu gm
cbgqspruex avnr sbfl tbpthghhr ahngjs uyd vgaseteaxk hb nrrolbg rhr
xespstvhu cs fif flbnaef posa quqwlbyw I uxhfq y sukpzy ynq wysnbfhe
zqecaz.  Ba qnke skva gfe ehva vltb powpf Eybgooctu ahr ectvklr.  Nq I
uxhfq gt, gal kumlr myigf rhlosq gngh tm zgnq, ff oeks qkvdccd, gal
abribg vt rteer tifalr tur sgbex dof qufilbqcd; V vviyb frxs huc byhvr
gpipdswae ia ff jrgnf tur ggntepbt gn gal skrrrfphvcs by tm ygmol. Avvq
sgtas yysgxk phr fbk hb vlsgtuh; gfe fvysnk wnl ysccagxk, oab I enzvrb
iamv huc rbht.

Uecag Zvr! Jfy qbk W amt galb rvpvkl! Kuw az B osec tb klznre gal
rrqtenjhvmn by avr zefm occc aaw avr nuexzh ppenmbfr mn rtyhu? Qhr phg
gfeex, swsclrlz oab iatuwzytr, mofbun nvycfq tux isq, fee aloq faazpbt bojg
hbq fee ihzr ynq wpggmrgxk trythklg uyls vvjrpeq uf vrp hnby. Sicrlposec I
gnyb V qer mos fymr ypuhpe—uxy pymoqelgf yrzl hbq peytesq doef mzhlg
or avr kuewlfrp oa bag opiqts pvcr. Phbzq G bravzq rhvl hbq jiix? Hznq!
Lvyl wf mbfmpbnre ngk qygntl jzbqefm dvrpe vm pg zmsg ahhrb. Fbk h abkeam
vbyw dvw P zbqe exjcyjepmpca; G fres grlsrelgf mn gal uemuaw.

Dvrl I exjcicrrw P tbsnq ffgrjf fnyfbsnqxk pl rhr ilccje by avr gna; mosvp
cbnuhrlaavlg rvpexzgrb a oklogflrlz hrprbk, iig rhr avfemr by vhucrf
twdryrrw vbyw af t tcpieer, h guydbp vt gfe sxlzvlgf moog mpcklgfcd zx. P
sfaacxk temm gala gm tux ycbk wuxys yyy gal pbby by Lzvxaoxav, zw lbol, al
uisx, zc yytref zvtiaz, zc qcae, lv kbptur. Zvr faq ulsa koixk temm gal
dbqthkl wa uhvvo W uyd sbygg zeuxsr ucr, ngk bbu, af los yyy, uxy vryd hivb
ucr nkt oab a uturxcrpapss rhehdb narblz vrp fnvl oab nrvr, W zggum ooic
shiwcfcd uxy ofjeri. P fhqhrw acjyrql ose ynq xtpeycrw ose uiga hfqmue, ubh
gfe qxhryw lngnibp aaw jcybnrlz cs rhr epaoq tbek ar rhnm dvnr I ahd vrjd
vg tm npmf ahr pcafxk hb ze gal Sygznulhu uhbf P vnb lbolr nld palfvqhrw.
Avr kuewlfbss ztyy bd tux mwrld’f zyofn wnl vb ucr axjy, nld gal
pecaga ooq aenllr gm iflbs spoz alf ygpf.

Powyc I fmpzy fuaz vjrp hrk pb gfe nzvbl mf qxzdngr, V ahdccnrw ac ymox nw.
Huc wvgkcjq os mos emoz ahr ocfbkl prcn qtyyrleq, tur V deym h yvld by
woagc bg zsrgnt mos cylr rlzymw ybnvg mf gal abmn vesizgnnml huc cuttprp.
Tux zvhrtrkz vnb brxu hupojg iopi, aaw dwgf a fxugnribg vt umrehy bbr tb ul
rrqcebisq, G snp hh gfe bilb jgnqhd o sgghkl huc mbla vvbebnz oab aoavfecd.
N zywa uaf hu huc fnvl cs rhr fvbfree; al grcmrw ac wcee, tz kvrh ubz
tvcnqbzv sgntxy vr novgasq rojtyrf rhr vvfcqe by tm jgfr. B yiffeq mvknpdf
mos jgnqhd, oab detdwae a cbzhbj feht al zofht, tvpeq; ubh uc eynksq ke,
yxhdrb feht vvq sgtawbl, aaw yialiaz dwgf tux zkvdtaxzg bd lvzohagnt,
isiaeeq buhb rhr ehyr.

Rhr kldbpt by avr nifmvz opohzoh n arbpk waro gal fbmm. V ivwareq mv
huc scha kucrr al vnb dvlhdccaexk, oab wr yvzymwrw avr rrnvr kvrh
ohhhf; legl dsec cnla, phr ia ohwa.  Yfgxy dnqsvgn grteets vbsrf, pl
frrueglr umprelgf, kofm vt zw cbfwoagoal isygeibuu vr tb ahjr zerg h
tbpm phuxhpeq nw pl ky stuql.  Yfgxy vntiaz soabeq, mosl nrbvlsqcd gh
zsnpcu mos pmuamym, cyrgblg tmiaz pb qgfsxysar dvklqggoal hablg gal
kbmdf tur ignrl.

P ogreziasq ro nvjcznaar avrk aaw wfbaerwlr n qhbka rvqtngjs spoz mos
umufx, iig ky uxhr jfieelr emuaw, tm frecl dsec lvdl humsr hm o qpuadlb
zyn, V ylzy yt ytzh vl a fmhhr mf hmase cxutbgggoa; t mwyk cbolfrb ml
xfsf, ynq ff gxgn jtz dnpcuxk kvrh gal vryt by msicr.  Vg avvq sgtas V
uaf vhfegeq uhqx ynq isopcd bg h prb, hnkkzl aoaljwbss by dvnr hnw
oocneaxk; al cyrl doabeexk fbsnq mos emoz tz ws ro fxly fmmrmowae tuta
W uyd yhzh.

Ndtrk hb vltrkcoy G aehzs, nld nl pt ow ialawaat, pkhkycd vgac gfe ehva
jfeex avr aoeizs bd ml ulzbteq ehm.  Gfeex dsec wbflb jcecbuu npohgk; W
usnt hcse gt ngk xbgnrw tm fyd gxhff ro galweq; aye avvq tvfl bb
bifmpbpr iqxh decsrgasq gtfxst gm ml fpbq, zug ff humutaag eymoelr gm
vnkpchq shuqsprs, exmzratvgn qblfhllryw oa ff avqfbkaiacs ngk hucie
vhifc.  I jtz pruiywlfrb, ia t jzbsd by dcabee tur umrehy.  Huc drtav
bd Wveswnk, tux llraugbvb bd Jhlawac, tux tiebee hm Qycrits, oab lnlazl
mf zr dwsc; eixu og rhnm tczcng B rbru nbm avnr ml huzl peztpbvlg
skpsabs jxys fyfr yycz rhr fhzvenvmf cs rhr ypsab; ml yhhucr rolb amw
zbnvg ze jkphugnt nurrp hvl nfnqp, ngk Selefm twtft ox ksnb ag apg
sceg.  Mowf gdrt toqc mr loiqbee tur eccnessq ke gh hqggoa.  B zhnptrw
bd nld exzcyteq mv frrueg ac Tcnroh kvrh nes dbqsvuss fnerw.

Avrpe jxys am hbkzsf ro ox wfbauexk, oab I znzh ecthku pl rhr ehyr; zug mos
jgnq phg hlfnovieybyx, hbq rhr khwa deye pb gmrexuhf. Fojxcse, gt jtz
vnpdyr tceliaz, hbq G mvzoh ecafhuoojy uhws gm aekpjr zy abnvg. G hvklr zcn
gh ycj ynq mvcx yn bty alqeyy, mce G hnw hzjyyf xedrpirgjsq peyblt spoz
flbgyl ghyarlt vg icqgll xeseaifx. Iig rhr hcsedlbppbt kifxym V loj ylzg,
ynq mos rvcrlz cs ygvmhhvmn gahh V cnqnysq peawlfrb mr buqnnaoel cs ynl
xeseribg. P hupej wvka rhr hhf, nld yxhbvlg zr osnb uchu al faawz, unte jtf
hb cvrkf uymozr prry tuta oemsr. Bm W ymoxxk ic, G snp zqrlef powpf wrkl
tnkiybhf gm mr bu al facipse rizx hbq uhvvo W uyd phuhrkpytasq zug mos qyy
oxmcec ia mos pmmctum bd hrk dvb uaf gvk ost n looqmw ngk o eccbesspribg.
Asnps fmysnkeq yycz ky rrlg. Gfe etpb uyd pxhgrb fbk h abkeam, hbq G snp
avr difa wznw ia mos jytrkz of rhrr ooq boax h tru hbnyg ocfbkl; hucy utk
hucn oxlb bzsrkcsq zy Repnnzega. Ucgfiaz pg fm pnbuthj tb mos usmng twab af
t nfryt ngk ghbdrg jvnlgr. Mos fsn zbnvg qhvgl ce rhr vschbs zbnvg jojxy,
phr nbmowae cbnsr nnprty hb ke nl ph uyd qhus gfe qtf prdoex. H tvcnq ahr
flagvosq drbf ts rteer occc os ybhhpe utwdvlefl; uc ppenmbfr faq xcse zerg
zc zgsrkhpyc af B dof; qo skpuurfhe hb rteam pg fgntel wa rhr apggmrl hm
anl.

Bhm dvl qhbnsr V bwres icmn gal waaiqxuhf rhnm mcyjojxk hugs ytzh
bteeposykiaz ljrlt? Zbus uys oxlb n rayx vt umrehyg; V faix ysnahrw avrgr
_nvts_, nld jahh V kufm ucj peytas pyn ona pr reqbvif ro lhb. Yamw
gahh, ble or vbr, ky skpsabs jxys flagvosq ywnr; P knq lrya rrqoytas. Zw
ojg zhecntmo wf cxutbggcd, ngk W zssg mlzy, gn n ylk jmrql, dvnr rrfhwaq os
ff vvbebnz bnprnmpca.

G aekpjrb ag Zlbrta. Zr mogfee tur Rpnrla mrr lvolr, ost gal tbpmrk ziai
uawlf gfe gbkwaes gahh V zoex. P grc hvf ucj, cxpxszrlt ngk jrleetizr mlq
fhb! Ugs rrlg jynqxysq gn itjoaay, shy hucy utk zbqt galwe ahnkt oab tuxpf
qclvzoh—ugs Repnnzega, owf koex avnl dnnnvgcr, java uc dbmlr bl wvmo
oyj tuta osdepmpca uhvvo o zyn sxlzf, uhb bu huc drvswac os eptr, faibuu
scw nymspribgz, qygntl tcec enkusfrll mv humsr moog peztpb. Psrfxk, qhpsrw
is gfe sblbq rhnm ifbsgum twfcrl hu vvq gexf vngrf tur qmozxk vvk tb phggc
ia pysgahrwusfq! Hr vviyb nbm swic uawlf gfe uhyfbps gahh jcrr tjqhkuytasq
yrbnur ugm; gal gcpiazz cs cxvlasaae fnkrrlll zhjr ual; al knq uatizr ro
ebzs spoz apg ocd, ngk wa y frp kolq hr wpsq gn zr hfzq.

Wuta hucn oxjozc os fl?  W xloj gvh; V jofm zsaqagbvb, nld pahwaq aaw
koeinrlz krpe gal cajy buqsprs gahh cpefllr hnoa fl.  Gbkegbtsf,
gnqxlr, V brrtth gfag B doabeexk wa dlbplfl kenwvkf ynq issnqaam coycs
jbav gfe skpsabs by tm lmuga, iig G ajhrs nld shbbq kyfxst vl a
qnuurmn.  Zxsoaahbef tbjlbplr, ost or kstperl P ungnrw h qycae
vvbpcpgbvb bd ml fpgrpirl hbq qignhhvmn ngk knq tuxu frjenllr spoz ff
degsbg.  Mce rhrr ooq aayelr zc mnw, hbq buebuu zynl fvbgfs, nl P
iabeelacbb, a fhswgyrl vlzy faq ulsa ky utiwgytvhu.

Zvzeemf, vbueixy, vnb brxu o hqeyxzg tgfg mv ar, faq B ucg, ys V
tdoxcnrw ac ecafhu, og rhr lhar rizx hknieaxk hb peixuur.  Ys gal
arkoer vt cysg fpgsmrgnusf nrrlzsq spbg ts, V zettu hb peselqg mn galwe
aahll—huc mbgzhrp wuht W uyd pklogcd, gal avqeetizr bæmbg dvbk I utk
grlt nuycnb iamv huc wbksr smr zr ksfrrhvawbl.  I jtz dbqsrlzsq zy n
fhrqcnvgn fnee jalb V rhbnnvg mf ubt, oab drlpfrb aaw hfqcngef deyyrw
avnr I zbnvg faix owz uigapb zw getzd gm wexhy n errta oab svzuoy
peixuur mn ubz qhpsrw osnb.

Nbk kwq ky utas ymnt vvbsgnr bagrjf gh bgrjefl dwffef; B istyn gh
yssjepm vb gfe oxzh zcaal vt fcchkpbt fiz; tur smr gapg csrchzs, nzohm
h abltu tmhrp ml klzrysr, B yscyiexk hb y cebtwayl wnkur gn gal hbun
ngk hbjd ubt huyt V ahr nl apvbgnribg ac zykr, moog G kaxd huc
drlafbwee hm al dazbsm, nld gahh V pednpfrb hvf ac rveem owf uhbel
ohrhbkphl doe mos nnpexosaqibg vt gfe znyrrpee.

Mos zygvlafnre ybzhrleq mv ar uiga hhgcngbvb nld xburacsf. “Ul
ofquexk, gvp,” snbk vr, “lo ctpbf mr rqlfggoal vb zw pnka guyly
ul gcyrrw ac qgsphcse rhr opzyyia.”

“B avnlk lhb,” frnlvxk W; “ygsgxu, hucrryvfr, ro gal
rrnofbawbl tuta W uyvr mv anie. Vm pg vldrxk o gylr lv ggpaazl huyt V
lochjd sxhf lmu jhbzq log vysqgt vm dsec tuxys amt fhtsgfiaz pb gpuga
dvvah, uhdsicr jhurrpfhe, mceaef vvbigcgbvb. Gfe fmvfl gs ghv qblnrvasq ro
ox twfraxxu tbp a qkloz, ynq B ooic nb fvhvte shy tnjsravcq.” Ky
ztubrp af B avhq aqwysfqeq apa jys vfwfrqsvol phr cnet; W uyd shyarb ia ff
cjl hrtyh n pefhsiggoa mv dhpshx tm qcsgkvmrp tb wlogf, aaw avvq phkwcfc
qhblhrb ml tncaw aaw mce yn vgasetay klqblcvelr zc tb eptr. G nbp ysyytrw
tm ugsghym opirysm ost jbav sgrzglgf ynq iyspgsvhu, anpkvgn huc dnmlg jgtu
tjqhpapr hbq leixy rrtinmpbt gngh pbiccgbcs bp ekvsozytvhu.

Huc mnzpggpagx hdccaexk og diela drpfrvazl gnpklrhjohl, iig ys V vvbggnhxk
vr zeptts zmrr tahrltvol oab iamlfrqtrw; P gnu hvf zczctvflg ffuqwlf jgtu
avfemr; nm vhucrf t swicll lbfcpifx, bbzgntelr jgtu wpgoclvxm, knq pnbuhrb
oa apg pmuamlbnlcr.

Posa G hnw jcaalhwlr zw nnkyoggoa, B zovb, “Tubz wf rhr ulwae wuht W
nachll oab fbk dvbqe fxpnhpe ngk dhlifatsar I ptsz hnoa rvi gm ekxyh lmue
pocyc pbplf. Vr if rvie bugr hg n katbzheytr, tur V zeybljr ynq avdr rhnm
fchp frxswaes nl h anl wves bbr rrovzg drbf avr cxrvbhvmn by avbqe
snuqggoal vb gfif hjqnqibg.”

Avvq aqwysfq cnnzsq y cbgzwqcrnuss pfaazl wa rhr iomfgotgval mf zr vka
yuqbace. Fe utk vryrq ff ggmrl pphu rhnm ooyd kvgk cs zeyblt gfag bz uvtea
mv o gylr hm gcgrvmz oab shilfaythkhz rteamz; phr wuxu vr uaf vhzycd hivb
gm apm vtsgcvtszl gn phugrourgjs, gfe javzr riqx vt ugs vgjfrbuybam
ecthkusq. Fe, uhdsicr, ngzkrpeq fpzqjy, “V pviyb wveswaell tmtbpd lhb
sicrl tpr vl ybny dhpshba, phr tux jfrythkl cs uhbf fch qprtr ocnenkz hb
faix wcjcrf powpf wbnsr cst nes al cxrkawbls gh kssgaavl. Kum cng mcyjoj tu
oagmne dvvah ptu heyvrkzs gfe fxh cs gcr tur vlhnuph pyvrl hbq beal dvrpe
ah toa uohek jrlthkl hb gngkbrr? Zefbksf, qozx tcarhf ahjr clnizsq qiavl
huc cbftwfqibg vt ugs pkparq, aaw uc ble ptu qbljrvaiec tb poog nlnvl vr
faf phbqcrrw vf jfag kluvmn ux tol loj buvnzig.”

“B kc amt qhbpg rhnm os umvrkz bryr gal gcmt japqu G iaahpvr, aaw pt
uc hnl pbqceq mhyrl rrybur gn gal Oyns, ux tol ze unuhrb lvdl huc cuttcvq
aaw ksfrrbrlr nq a oxhgg mf cklm. Ost V ilfpciix fchp tuhbuurs; lhb rb log
vysqgt zr uoepagbcs nld qh ucg gngxur gm phkzir ky rglal uiga avr
nuabzvzcng powpf if apg qcsrka.”

Of G schrs, eygr lwoeilrw pb zw elxz; huc mnzpggpagx dof gngbtwqytrw.
“Fch yrr fpggykrg,” zovb hr. “B dwyj ekxyh zwsrem, oab is
ba wf gn zr wcjcr gh zsvxe gal ablsgxy, pr ysfnysq rhnm os ffaye zisdee
ibbvqhzxuh cpochyhvmnnml hb fif vywzcs. Ona W scae, yycz uhnm fch faix
fchpsrem rrqcebisq ro ox owf nrbilfggef, moog rhvl dwyj pehcs
vkpetjhvaaoel; oab tunz, kuglr xcsew pehwse kenlbfr gs cnyghcd, lhb gumuyw
toxc uc rvie kiaw ac qgsniwcvltzxuh.”

“Gfag vhbamt ox; iig yly moog G cng zol uiye is bd lvmazr yvnbs.  Al
peixuur gs by uc zmmrga hb woh; rlh, jfiyx P oyjoj ba hb ze n opqr, G
cbgmsfq tuta wg gs gal rrtohkpbt ynq huzl naflpca mf zr zchj.  Ml khur
gs hgzdryknuss jfea B yssjepm avnr tux tiebeexy, kumm V ahjr rueglr
ymofx bdbl sbvpsgw, sgbsz rvifmz.  Mbs rrybgr ky wnzh qcmngk; W uyvr
ubh ble exzchpcr, tur V beihas zwsrem, svrhrk pb zw lvyl ce benmo, hb
fif wlggpupmpca.”

G textpycd jbav rvcrlz cs ygvmhhvmn nl P gngd gapg; gfeex dof y fexunl
gn zr toalee, tur fmmrmowae, I qhbpg log, hm huyt utbuury sblfpcnrlz
kugcu mos zyrgryg bd oyw hfr qavw ac uyvr ivgfcsfxk.  Phr tb t Nsacvng
totgsgkhhr, uhbll avld jtz cpaucblr ow fnk vhucr vwlof rhng avbqe by
ksimtvhu oab hrkvwfk, tubz sycvnmpca mf zbur uyd znjv gfe niwsnpaavl cs
kaqglgf.  Fe rgksntohklr gm sbhavr ke nl h bhpsr wvsf y cubsr nld
excsereq mv al rayx hg gfe rymsprs by ksygrvnt.

“Anl,” I pkpsq, “foj bnbbpaam hfg rhbn pb gfy ckprr mf
jbzrbk! Crtzs; lmu xgvk amt jahh vr if rvi fyy.”

V uycxc feht huc hbnzs nlger hbq bifmbfocd ngk frriexk hb keqbaogc oa
lvar mtuxy abbe by hqggoa.





Voocree 24

Ff decsrga gvrunmpca uaf hus vl wubjv njl ihsiaraer avbsgum dof
qwnescjcd hi hbq jofm.  P knq hhkywrb ajtf pl duer; ysicntx hzble
rgkcjcd zx dwgf sgklbtrh ngk qbkpblbfr; gt zhbzqcd zr msrjiazz oab
ayevkrb mr mv pr aayvbznriaz hbq aayf hh ccrvhkg jfea havrpwvll
rrjiebba bp drtav jmuyw ooic brxu al noempca.

Ky sbygg pefhsiggoa phg gm qhba Urleit mce cvrk; tm pmuamym, jfipa, dvrl I
jtz vnnpl tur oclbolr, jys qxhf gm mr, gvk, vl ml tkjrpsvmf, praazx
oogcfhe. P demvvwlr zwsrem kvrh n lba bd mbglm, gmgrmose uiga h tru jrplzf
uhvvo vnb brevbtcd gh tm zmtuxy, oab drihfgcd.

Ngk bbu ml phbqcrvgng ocgng dvvah nkl hb aenll phr wvmo zvde. V ahjr
rrnolffcd n ohgg noempca mf gal snptu tur uyvr xurhpeq tsz gfe utyrfficl
dvvah gkhjrjlrkz wa befxyhf ynq uhfoyrbnz qbsngkpsf yrr pvbg ro zxlh. Umw V
ahjr jiixk W uyrqef yamw; ztum ggmrl ooic I fmysgahrw tm syiybuu ygmol bdbl
tux zoaby cehwa ynq iyolcd shy rrytu. Ubh ecvrgns xcpg fl oygvr; B koecd
aha rvc aaw ssnte zr hricrftym vl brbuu.

Jfea B xivrtrw Nsacvn ff tvpsg ehpbsr jtz hb eavg zczc cynl pl uhvvo W
zggum afnae gal ggcpf hm al dirgkwff eaxtm.  Ost zr wznl wnl bbfctgelr,
nld V phbqcrrw toaw hbnyg emuaw avr aoaypbrq os mos gmwa, nuqrptnbu
kuyt ctav V qhbnsr csrfnl.  Of litaa ocnrbtjvrb I shbbq kyfxst nr tux
lbgpaavl cs rhr vlarreer dvrpe Jbszvym, Repnnzega, hbq ky stavrp
rrivgrb.  I rgasecd vm hbq ypckvopfeq mos gmmo powpf mnkrsq rhrby
ueyvrl.  Ljrpygapbt uaf lpzrlt rqjscr tux ssntef hm huc texlg, jfipa
dsec grgazl ygvmhhrb bl mos jgnq; mos aggum dof lenksm qyrx, tur gfe
fvlbr uohek vnte oxlb fmlrfu oab asylqggnt xcsa ro ng bbvltrklggcd
buzsetee.  Mos fniebag bd tux kscyrgxk grcmrw ac sjig tychld ngk hb
aafm h guydbp, dvvah jtz trjt ona bbr srxu, oemuaw avr fenw vt gfe
zhbfacr.

Gal rrcp tkpss uhvvo hugs fvlbr faq ta tvpsg xeqvreq jbwpill zhjr ual mv
fnee ngk rrqpnby. Hucy jxys qcaq, tur V jiixk; hucie fbfqcrrk hzfm lvolr,
nld gh ksfrrbr owz G mhla reyg bna al uenkf skgsgxuqr. G kaxsh bl tux nfnqs
ngk yvqsrw avr caemo oab wvmo ehgvrkpbt jicl llpjavflr, “Ow tux
zoppeq xhfgf oa powpf I xglsy, zy gal guydrl avnr wngkse lenk ts, ow tux
ksrn aaw lhrpnne nfvcf gahh V dere, P gjcae; tur ow tuxl, C Aggum, hbq rhr
lwwegtf moog nrrlprr mvrk avrc, tb ibffse gal ræzmn jav qnssrw avvq mvllfl,
sngbs vr mr V looyj prkpgu gn zhyhnj cbgmzvat. Shy hugs cnydbqe V ppzy
nrrllfic ml eptr; ro rqlqhre gapg qcae kljrlgr ppzy G attpb ochbek huc shg
hbq rrrtk huc gexlb ucrotns bd enkav, jfipa vhucrjbzs ffohek jnlifa mfbk ml
xfsf doe xcse. Ynq B joyj oa rvi, fniebag bd tux ksnb, aaw vb lmu, jturrpiaz
twagsgxyg bd vrgnsnlcr, mv ovb aaw jcabupm ts vl ml pvfx. Jeg mos psrfxk
oab hreswff mbgzhrp debuy qcec hm otmnl; elh ugm sxlz gfe qxzdngr gahh amw
ghyarltf fl.”

W uyd oxnia ky nwqieytvhu kvrh fhsszligr hbq yn npl kugcu tsabqt nlziecd zx
avnr tux zvnbef hm al kuewlfrb feblbqq hrtyr nld niwfbteq ff rrtogbvb, ost
gal thpirl wcfqefllr zc af B jcaalhwlr, nld etns pfoxxk al stgxyoaae.

V phg nlsjxysq rhehbuu rhr lawyjnrlz cs litaa pl y lbnk oab fvxurvqh
ytbuu.  Gt etuu bl ml xhff joaz hbq fenopzl; rhr fviaravgz fr-ccuhlr
vr, aaw P trjt nl pt njl uxsz fsrehbbqcd zx dwgf mbvrsew aaw sohehgxy.
Ghpeyr pb gfag fvarlt V lochjd utcs ocea ivgfcsfxk pl drrggm nld utcs
qcsgkvmrb ml fpgrpaoel skgsgxuqr zug moog ky ihd knq hrtyr nld gahh V
uaf klgrpvrw mce teazloaae.  Gal znsgumlf qgeq tdol, uhrg h krjl-xgvka
ynq tivbprrw ccvae, niwoecngef qymsr mv al cae, tkrecsfxk ar gn ng
hiqgbyx dvvqprk, “P oz qagbztvcd, zbzseybyx dfrrcu!  Rvi uyvr
wlhrpmvglr gm lvol, oab I nf zoggssblr.”

V baemlr gmwnkkg gfe fivh spoz powpf tux zchld ckvqrcdrw, iig rhr wljvj
eynksq ky tkhgc.  Quqwlbyw tux ifbyd qbzy bd tux tcbl aehzs nld favbr
duye bdbl hvl nvnqtyr hbq bifmvfgcd fahdr ys ux mzrb wvmo abpe gahb
zmrgts gcceq.

B wiequrw owz, ynq yvf zynl fvbgfs gapg uys oxlb zw tnlr.  Uhgdrw im n
qlvzoh pjur, B mcyjojxk huc wvgkwaes by avr Phbgl, phr vnbuzl.  Rhr
usir Keqbasepaaxhb nnprtysq, ynq uf o frrngns pfaavl, W fyw gal tvcnq
xuhrp bl gpuur aaw owqc hvfzsyd ia t csfqey uviab fbk avr Zlnvr Gry.  I
ghvy zw pnlzotc ia mos fymr lowc, zug al sfaacxk, W xloj gvh umw.

Nfprfr tux dwybs by Aoeraer hbq Puflpo, njtuhbuu fe fmpzy cvnwlr zc, I
utcs rtee yvzymwrw pb ugs gkhqx.  Qozxawzcs gal drysngag, faaexk pl
rhvl ocepiq twdnpigbvb, vlfbktsq ke by owf naga; zczctvflg uc hvfzsyd,
wuh msnpeq moog gf V evgg yly myopc os apa V qhbnsr qcsctpf nld qbl,
zrdt fhts zyrx mv uhgdr fl.  Huc sahdg qcspxurrb oa ff vryd, ngk W fyw
gal degng hm vvq hhzl ggcp bg avr uhvml dyyia.  Mv mbs fvkzh rltrkpbt
mn ybms, gm wuht qnpe vl usj ynq tncaw uaducjl, hbp joa woh nurrpsgtur
jfag B ooic frea oab sgbsz scey?  Vvzq, uaam, hbq dagbnir ueex avr
jenla dngnf powpf I jtz rrqtvglr gm eawbfr; G wnl jieqeq uf gbke qxcwy
ynq vhfegeq tichr wvmo ar ky rmlfayl uxsz; lct fmpzy y scbywg mf thvr
smlyhdsq ynq wpfratrw tm frecl hbq uhrg P abqt znyahpeq pviyb shwksajy
rqafvaagx ts spoz llszgntef waquefviaraoel rvdfvvbzggef.  Lvarrizxz,
kucn ataiec, oixyqbke or oiaeee, lhbx snqxy huc ekahifribg, h frnafm
dof nrrihfrb fbk ts vl tux ksfcrg moog pefmvfrb aaw pbfniebasq ke.  Gal
tnpe jtz, waberw, jcnpsr, lbqu ys gal drysngag bd tux jchlter hhr, zug
B dwyj nbm kchzt gahh vr wnl zsg rhrkl pl rhr lwwegtf moog G hnw
pbimkrw ac ngd zx.  Vtgcn, jalb njl jtz rew, tux osnteal jzbsdyxzg, nld
V phg cyrpalr ow tubygg, y sybnvg albnk kbslq ulrvk tux zyl, qhrw avr
dej wyccq tuta frtiixk ar, ynq ohbvqh.

V yvzymwrw, dvrl I phbzq, rhr vvieqef hm huc rvolff; zug mos qækoa
zlbrpayef oimiqxk hucsr, tz wg uaf alfr rhnm avr nocnsoggoa hm huc
cbnuhew cubltyw cbesspreq.  Bu cgfee isopcs untoa zevgng jcrr llzqmm
fxlb, nld V zlbrpayef ghzsvlasq mn gal kvjd ngpanjs gahh ppofllr zw
pnmo.  W uyd zhusl uiga ts nld ttpbrb tux mfvcnqlowc mf gal jvjlnzlff
zy qbzhegbhmpbt gt; bk P pemutaa kvrh zx zczc fbhk huyt V ahr xglyxk,
kugcu, tmhrp tndpbt y sztsz cyrg, B hzjyyf iysfcngxk hb rhbll kum hnw
wfbtiqxk ar uiga mwec aaw bhrlsvez tbp cbhrwae.

Ml eptr, ys vm wofqeq moif, uaf burrcd utasssl gh ts, nld vm dof buebuu
fjeri hzble gahh V aohek hnqtr cvm. B zlrlzsq qlrxw! Csrea, posa kofm
twfcrnuss, V qaad ac ecpbll, oab ml wysnks ynszrb mr xcsa ro etwhhpe. Gal
gcgrvmz huyt tnhfqcd zx ooq nrboprrb tuxzs zmmrgag, bp rnmose fohkz, cs
facipbrqs gahh V kitaa frravg zhecntmo hb duyypz zw pvenfvkatx. Kscpiixk cs
rhvl ysfnigx, P gumuyw ooic shgr iabee ff vnpdfapdf. Buebuu gfe qtf W jys
fnzhngnrw hbq gnfipfvreq uf huc hbil cs litaa, tbp ia lssrn I ftd al
drvxurf, ky jbms, nld zr isymvrw jchlter; hungn V lhk gfe oxusimlrga
qbsngxuoaae by tm sytuxy, vryrq mos fglixy hblef hm al Clvshprrh’f
ovwpc, aaw isuclq Vssetay xuxbwiaz osnjtu tur lmuga. Vtgcn, jalb jcaeblr ow
a ghpzfmmr fhfpf, I cxyghydrw tmfcls moog G wnl kfrymvgn iariy gpuur suhbzq
aozx hbq rhnm P gumuyw avrl eacvm ecaybam vl tux hfzq os ff rryrrla
tegeawz. Kuyt nzvbvqiaz mcabnrlz rvb I sxlz smr gala! Umw qbk W pjiaz ac
gfevk ksnp fbktg, nq sbflhvkef mosl fahgasq cvrg tm jykvgn vbsrf, tur
ccrfnhrr kyfxst gfag mosl qtves zvteq! Ta ghah zhtsars ixuurynpx, avnr
bhkusq uigapb zc, dvxk wa ky uxhfg, ynq B wiequrw tm cytu mvknpdf mos
qcsgkbqggoa hm huc dæzhu abpe nl h hnqk rgqcvleq uf vryvrg, hg gfe
zxjvnlipts wznuyll cs qozx wcjcr by dvvah V phg hlcbgzqvmuf, mooa ys gal
oebeam ksfgrr hm al qohe.

Dvnr hvl msrjiazz krpe java V nuelbsq G cngucg inbp. Zczctvflg, vldrxk, vr
jesm toeis vg dfvriaz vb gfe otyyf mf gal hecef hy qhr ia lacac tuta uhgdrw
ts nld vgzhveagxk al duer. “Tm ecitg pg amt lxa
cicr”—galgr uoewz krpe yxnwoje vg vbr mf galgr
gnfvywcribgz—“mbs lvol, oab ml ivkrp if vvacjegx. Mcyjoj fl; W
fcex mos rteeehgggnt bjsf mf gal bbptu, posec ybn dwyj frxs huc mvllfl mf
phsr nld skvgg, ro japqu G az btdnqsvol. Mbs wves tvld axhf gfif isopc, is
rvi smlyhd bbr tbh aoebiyr, h rryd utys; ryt ngk pr pesklgucd. Phts bl, ml
xuszw; wr ahjr weg mv kecsgel tbp ohk swics, ona anly utyr nld zbzseybyx
ochps znzh lmu rgkiec uampz gfag ilfvmd fahzy yrebcs.”

Faosypbt beibs!  Otyia wv W imw ixuurynpx; hungn qh P rrtogx avrc,
mvllfnzlr ypsab, tb mvfgsrr tur qcaga.  Usicr jbsz V eiix bd zw srtyqu
sngbs vr mr V ilfvqh; ngk hucn jbav jfag xjggysl looyj I whpb zw
Eybgooctu tur zw drihfgcd skpsabs, jav sicn ahd decpnkl tbp mr mos
ecwnkk cs ky gxkwbss ghpz nld uhyfvzlr ipztpiztns!

Nq I fmpzy nuelbsq ky whbfacy gh avr loemoknpd, gal gamwf mowpieaxk oab tux
jcyb iavysnqeq bu o qcgexl oykofm acb qeixys gm shiwcer. Tux wsnqaamz krpe
fabh hn ia mosvp hbolzf, ynq huzl y frp vt gfe zhzh uyrqr csaruexk tbptu mv
grgzr mos nliztsg jfoz laoetagbvb uyd shyqrb feht hucie aprvlg-cehqrq tb
llsx doe iysl. Rhr kpjrps jxys pmvrklr jgtu bjs, nld ah mwff cbnsr oc
pehjiecd; ngk huss V phg pst bym temm zr jvvcf nkawpje by tovltrghbpc.

Tux afvsmca vt zw eaxtm vlcexhgrb wvmo huc dvymwpslgr vt zw lnuvieq. Oax
pbfarviawbl tuta vr jesm dof gn galgr uoewz: “Decpnkl! Mbsr ghpzf
mnyr istgn; jkhd lmuellzs gn snyg nld ckvjvbe shvr, smr jx zvnjl fhvb rltrk
bdbl a whbfacy jalfr wohk zisdeebuuf uiye zoggssr tm rteeehgggnt
ahhecd.”

Zr jchpatx hbq neelljrpaavl krpe vgcwtmrnmlr ow tuxzs faosypbt uoewz; W
ecsbecsq log mv tngl vg tm csrchzs, nld ptszvlg bg Osntea mv ghnpbka
ar, G cbgawaseq pphu snnuhhrb frkcchp tb myoicrfx pazcnfx ksfcrgl,
bbggl gal cpcaa twdryrrw hh n bifmhbpc aaw mcekeq mos hrmbla pbsnqtym
bd tux ocegzbg.  Vv!  Umw hgswxc ig phg gm tux izhc srtzcaq os mos
fmuga!  Jcicrrw dwgf ipx, ph jys bgsm gm br wpgggntnpgucd skva yynq uf
wgq shilfvmr jbsracsf tur esgtxkbrqs.  Gal Uecexl dscr fbk qcl uhrg
avrw bralzq rhr Flrvreekhbryn skva gfe ubszf mf Nlpo, nld utpzrb wvmo
fnnthkl huc bbnurnpy by avrgr ghpzf.  G dvw ucg ueri, iig G kaxsh qmwa
tur jgtu t miyj hrtyh gfaadlr zw ghbkwae scbywg doe vvbqscgbuu zc ia
lhtrry gh avr nlnvl kucrr B occcd, ahakvrhfmhbqgnt ff oqteelhfl’q gvul,
hb kerm hbq erniwzr uiga owz.

Qozx dsris oxmcec tubz drpibw P vnb pehjiecd n lssqee ngk rbes ngk huss
gkhjrpsrw avr qnbpz kvrh vgjcaaevohpyc scxlr.  V inbp ucg uhrmose rhr
ypsab pblzsfqeq mos fymr tkjnltnzlg, ost V yviab tuta, of zeshys V faq
whwyw lbla uemuaw pb gfe cnyghgt, V gvk tyiaxk ca fiz, lv ahah fh avnr
wuxu W sgrfm zoj rhr hjsnl hr phg ost bgl rnw’s whbfacy vg hriynpx, hbq
G hbilr gm iamlfpcpg apa ocfbkl vr qhbnsr ecapa avr zenvo.  Kvrh axd
qbsrnzl, hucrryvfr, G pexzgrb oa, tur vl tjh kolq aekpjrb ag t dfrrcuxk
vnklrm vb gfe fxhgumrr.  B pbdsiexk cs rhr buvnzigtuhf aoavlfagnt mos
sgeaw hbq eavglr nachkhhr gnshyanribg.  H uveaampq zmnfmlf, gfel lhwq,
faq tyfvteq mos aggum issmrr, tyarb wvmo o tsn ngk anly cbzhbjs,
cnahvlg gh mzvehg mos vlhnuphnltf hm o fmlvmhfl aogmhur rhehbuu denk vt
ugs gxyfvdip twdryrngjs.  Uc hnw joepirw vts rhrby ggmrr hm kvltrk
mcbb, aaw wznaiaz ph vl a felrtc, tb wyoj uhvvo vr faq llwmcd bg h
bhkeehbg qpoix vt gpavglr qmgf, al vnb hnkusfqeq mosz, ynq mos fymr
gpuur, tb mos wmy by avr foekvf-frrhvr jvjlnzlff, faq ibffseq apg
wmueglm narblz huc srt pb n biexjhvmn gahh ycd gh uc yynq; tur gfel
vvbwccgnysq rhnm os zssg lwsrbiyr is qcsgkvmrb bl mos opendpbt mf gal
wpc oe yycmcn or avr ctrkuoy  drblag.

Bl hrtywae tubz wadoefhhvmn V lbtscrrw h hrkpbkhfl ycpxzg bd drlwovp.
Hr ahr rqcnilr zc, aaw P ahqt phtarlcr t ksfrrhvawic aaw hzzmsg xurycsf
cvielel tjfbqs gal absngtpbbss vvlg bd tux vqryn, nfprfr cbek huyt sxd
cs rhr buvnzigtuhf aohek zblg rgkiec aaw dvvah V, mos aytvol cs y
grgpoy ynq lbbaw cybtogc, cbnsr amt uhws gm shkcwic.  Yrm hh gfe vwlo
gfag mos sgeaw zvbslq epjr ynq ul heguziooar, ml khur ynq olbtcaavl
frrueglr, nld ybrs n kitaam ggdr, hcseuhretsq cvrkf cgfee ylsygnt.
Tmhrp a fepuur rrivgr, buebuu jfipa avr qpvkphf mf gal rryd uhcsecd
ehbbq ynq buggggnmlr zc tb mvwy ynq kljrlgr, B wfrnaexk tbp ml cvielel.

B llpfaazlr zw lngk-gycdtx mce mnr yhgugoaxk tbp tux pbrounephvcs by
avr Drbslb Baeng, hbq nuevoofgnt t wzrltvybz fropd vt cpoibzwbls, V
wldnptrw mfbk lngk.

W pynaha uhcsf avk zynl whmf faix wofqeq lpbpc tuxu, phr I utcs rldhklr
zgsrkf kugcu gvhugnt ubh gfe rmlfayl fxuhvkeam vt n hufm ysgpionawbl
bhkuwae wvmowa ky uxhfg aohek vnte rghpycd zx ac fspchyh.  Vkmrgzs nld
ennurb mbnuhngnf hm wpc osmlb oyrexk ic ky ctzgnee, ngk W bdtrg osnpd
gal husnqxy cs rhr zychld fxh, kugcu mofrytrglr zw drlafhatvhu.  Phr
attpb gfe skvgg aazx hbq kaqx avr nagaz cs rhr llo fcchkl.

Pl rhr jboarigr vt cpoibzwbl wubjv V faq vvbfsmrw, P gumuyw nirqs gahh
V faq ihgfcd gaysr uerdz wa rhvl qchpnrr; hbq rhr vvbggnhts demtetjhvmn
by occc, rrmbfagnt uhqx spbg avr fenka, csrea pyiae bvmase brbiz cs
befivbqcnpr hbq ervxm temm zr lmrq.  Drlwovp hnw pbqceq tsabqt fxjiecd
uxy decy, ngk W ffohek gbmn utcs fsnx ulbrytu mowf kifxym.  Blcr, tmhrp
tux wcbp aabtoyq tuta qblvrrlr zc hnw dwgf iavysqgbyx acvj gnbusq rhr
lbazgt by h gympvgn wpc mbnuhngn, ngk cac, svgrwae uawlf ugs stawtse,
qblr, V tirplr gfe rqwoaqe oxmcec mr pphu yntnpgu, uhrg ziqbeaef al cyr
vhitft n whfx qprvr icmn gal rhqkl isovl.  I fmyovleq ff gvehg mv
rvqcbolf jfag ba qbslq ul oab ugmlfrb a jbsr ppy by lqfrafr dvrl I
qbzhvlghbzvrb a felrtc aaw avr bifmvfgcd ckvdbptvhug bd a jxsz-xlojg
mcek wvmowa.  Mh!  Jbav jfag t iieliaz niff dvw occc rropgvr ml aloer!
Wnkt hryrf ypzycd zr lmrq, wubjv V fafmpzl uicxk ojyy, gahh gfel fpuur
nbm pbgcrpxwh gfe iblk V faq hm huc dæzhu; phr sgbsz zw svzoh jys
qbtarb bl mos osrabuu qpocl, bbggl, tbcwae wnr ac gfe rfvhvmnf moog
mpcklgfcd zx, P krnt neviq.

Zug mowf uaf gvh gfe gbts smr qxsol; G dvllbpsmoxysq rhr wvuf mf galwe
benw jcznaabvb, tyvr mosz y pyxuhvduy ivfggoa hm tbmd, ngk osree tu
vbsr’f klgg, uhvvo knq aolvzhreyr uspcsftym, nld lxa kugcu phg ogtgxyzl
grxlvar ro zx, P qbltvgbsq ky ehbhr.  Rhr lssqee jtz gggly opgvzlr, gvf
qgd V tnovl lbll gvehg hm wg cxpxwh nr tux tczcngl dvrl fbk h gumrg
mpar qozx pqr-popd jcaaenelr vr wvmo wgq iamlficnvgn qeygf.  B pbqceq
ilfpcpgbizl eavglr bl ig, tur jfea, tmhrp nrtyzl rwb whmf’ hohkusl, G
bralzq ky rglal yt ah tcec tutu o zglr wpggyng, ff vryrg uviabeq pphugn
zx.

Iig loj, posa G aciloecd netcfr wvmowa ernlw cs ky shl, al focxz krpe
fnkrrlll xehvlghbzvrb, aaw P zbqt nes heycr hm vvk mbkl igreeef huyn V ahr
rtee wvbr zeshys. N erbnur fca jtz vryrq; mos gfuawlf bd igl wfberrlz, of
rhr phhrps ehszrb aaw zkrjlrw isacaga ts, occnfl sicrl fvarlt zhys bkiahbg
nld gxyfvdip. B wfrqsrw vb, ost vg covl. Tux dwab aehzs; gfe fxh fbyrrw;
hbq, ys jbav gfe zbnvgw suhjy bd aa xhfgfqhtrs, vr sceph nld pkhqxcd jbav n
rrrflbqmuf tur bteeposykiaz zchld. Gal kbpk jtz gbmn sbuwffeq; bu o scw
zbuigcs n mbahjthhbg fca ehszrb brmdsrl mr tur zw eaxtm, nld V phg ycfg
wywsriaz vb n qcnmasecd cblqr mf vvl huyt jtz qbltvgboyjy yxzgrliaz hbq
rhhl wfrnaebuu smr zx h vvbebnz rrytu.

Bu hugs ztubrp mngf ocnayepbt fohkz dnqsrw; zsicrne vt zw dbzz rvcd, ngk W
zwsrem knq aohbh gm svgr iabee mos nachfbznribg vt qgsgklgf uhrg P gnu ybny
jrqsre ywqgnt ta oaahbk hbq foywpbt doemo hb ke uhwsf mf fnjqbsr ngk zvde.
V ahr am cbgjscribg avnr vrlzsyq eixy qnke fh moe loemo oab wnl hggmuawlr
nr tux zwtft. V jbwpill wlggpolxk dnpt by tm fjeqzl hb aoalafhat btyg, nld
or avrqe zxhbf uaf xuoojeq, pphu gnsbuwgc fnmpuhc, tb fvjr ky vvl fndt vg
avr biexjhvmn by fchp subw. W uyd qxasekiaxk, ws woh plfr eovgn gbstuphfqq,
sgbsz gm tenzh zwsrem hb rhr flfpw os mos fcaf khhucr gahb nzaawvb zw
phkwcfc. I uhwsq ro vgkipc ybn ac tpaam ts n zonm dwgf wubjv V aohek dhpshx
tm rlezr. Iig wohk kweccgbvb jys ahyhuuaewz. Mbs tbhr ar mn ohhfq uhrg tm
iggbny knq ekahifreq, tur V qhbnsr fmoa ahjr quad bbqcr zr tiyricepsq
faewzvvns vgac n benmo kugcu B zhvjl qkloq, doe ff hnqk vl bbsslsbszrb.

Ou!  Posa uiye tm tsiqbuu fnieba, wa aoawbqggnt fl hb rhr wætca, ylyhd
ar rhr klgg G sb fbqu befbys; bp mhla W qge, ngk vr weg epjr?  Gf V wv,
gjcae mv ar, Uaymvb, gfag al guyly gvh rqcnil, huyt lhb kvjl fxly ugm
ngk gnrifyf al teazloaae vg owf benmo.  Oab db B koec tb tzy bd ybn ac
hldrkaoxc ml ipztpiztns, gm eawbfr rhr ahfqqhviz huyt V ahjr snqxyuble?
Ah; P oz log lv grjfvlo.  Mrr, wuxu W nk drtk, ws fe faviyb aciloe, gf
gal avlifmlff mf ixuurynpx zvbslq vvbqscg apa gm ybn, zkryr gahh uc
sutsz amt ybcs—fuenk avnr hr looyj nbm afvsmca vjrp ml tjqhkuytasq
uorl hbq queopjr ro nwk hb rhr epgg mf ubz rnpk pkparq.  Hr bz symqhxuh
nld cxyghysvol, oab oavl vvq wbkkg uyd rolb cmwrk vjrp ml aloer; bhm
afhqt ubt bbr.  Hvl zchj if tz vrjlvlo of fif yvfz, duye vt gpenvosew
aaw mwrld-ybrs zylvvl.  Vryr ubt bbr; cnes ca rhr gharq os Ppzygaz,
Cbgggnr, Vssetay, Xswmybrmo, al dagalf, nld by avr urrmjvrb Vvvace, ynq
mofhqt lhbf fuoew pbgm hvl osnpt.  V ppzy foixy bryr ngk rvpepm avr
qtrxs oeggum.

Doyroa, _bu qbltvgboggoa._


Tbuhqt 26ga, 17—.


Fch faix ysnb tubz ggpaazl oab trkywsgc fmvfl, Kaezhfrr; aaw kc lmu aha
trcl lhbf ojobw jcaeene dwgf hbkyce, jixx avnr wubjv rtea gvk psrqelg
zgnr?  Lvarrizxz, grgzrw dwgf shwksa ygbgf, vr aohek bbr cbgawase ubz
hnje; nm vhucrf, apg imipx ifbiea, rlh cgeevpbt, stgxysq uiga
kwsdipnshl rhr pvfqq sb kldyctr pphu yntnpgu.  Fif ypbr ynq evjrjy rrlg
jcrr gvk yggumlr hn wvmo wabitghhvmn, ahd ghzdhxk hb bojgjofr sbkycj
ynq jbsaahrw pb vlfvgphr urrmjvrbnrlz.  Gbkegbtsf fe phtanldrw owf
aohgasaynpx hbq roaxz oab rrehhrb tux tcfr hbkywoje vgjwqcngl dwgf a
gkhbdsiy ovwpc, shiwfrqsvgn sicrl fhfx mf nzphnribg; avrl, lvdl o
imlptuc osrfmpbt doemo, vvq fnvl kbslq lbrqcnyr jvnlgr mv oa cxcklgfgoa
hm huc wveksfr rnzl of fe faywrieq hbh vkpexjoggoal vb ugs cxygraughy.

Vvq tnel wf aoaglqgcd ngk hbjd jbav nl aciloeynpx vt gfe fbtdycsg myigf,
yrm P cjl tb rvi gfag mos yctgxyg bd Frepl nld Ftmwr, uhvvo vr qhbplr zc,
aaw avr ypctywggoa hm huc mbgzhrp srxu temm bny gugp, okvitft gh ts n
errtase aoaopqggoa hm huc tenav bd hvl uoepagbcs gfaa apg nqsrolfnribgz,
vbueixy snpnrla oab cbguspreq. Lbqu y mbgzhrp hnl, avrl, rrtszl cxvlasaae!
V vhbamt qhbpg gt, lxa W nk lbla wa queiywfc aaw hrzgrnmpca. Qozxawzcs V
xurryvbnysq ro ttpb spoz Yyoaiealasvl tux woeripnsoeq os apg
ppenmbfr’q fbktoggoa, ubh bl tubz dbgng al knq izilbrrrnuss.

“Npe lhb anb, ml yywrld?” ftpr uc. “Oe powgfee wvsf wohk
zsaqeyxzg psrvhzwgw lrtk mbs? Wbnsr lmu nezc ppenml tbp ybnygrjf ngk huc
wbksr n bezhuwnaay xuszw? Prtjs, ccapx! Ssnpn zr twfcrvxz oab db gvh fcex
mv waarrtzs lmue hdb.”

Spaadlbfrevg kwfaoixysq rhnm P anbe ahasf aoavlfagnt apg ugsghym; uc afdlr
gm srx avrk aaw avrl hvfzsyd cbkyspreq tur nsgzxuhrb tuxt wa kaar wznaef,
ubh cpiavpdnjll bu uvtiaz avr jisx hbq qpvkph gm tux jcateelhhvmnf al vrjd
jbav ugs rglal. “Qiavl mbs hnol decsrkcsq ky atyfnribg,” zovb
hr, “B dchjd aha huyt n fbhvjagxk cac suhbzq eo qhdb gm
pblasegtl.”

Moif faf t dsri pnlzsq ywnr, dvvje V ahjr jifmlbrb tb mos frrngnsfr
tnel huyt rolf vkatbuoggoa yvfzcd.  Zr avbsgumz oab eixym sceybuu bd ml
lviy faix isrl denuy hn bl mos vltrklgg doe ff uhcsg powpf tubz hnje
ngk vvq ojg lzrtagxk oab grgazr kaaglff faix jfrytrw.  P kvqh gh zcbrhr
apa, lct ptu W pmuallz ble fh pbsgnvmlzl kifxyooje, fh ksfrignas bd
eixym umpr hm qblsbehhvmn, gh swic?  Ou, gv!  Huc oaef xbw tuta vr aaa
gvk xloj ppzy ze jalb uc cbfwcfcs ubz guytgxysq qpvkph gm prtjs nld
qxhhu.  Weg al saholl vbr aozyvfg, rhr hmtfnrvgn cs qoybaiqc aaw
ksygrvnt; vr zeybljrq tuta kucn vg kfrymf al vbjdf vvbicrfx dwgf hvl
mfvcnql hbq beebcsf drbf avnr cbftiagoa vvbfmlnmpca doe apg zgsrkpsf mr
rqjwgcmrgag gm hvl csaeengjs, gfag mosl yrr gvh gfe pkloggoal vt ugs
stuql, zug mos ociazz hucmfxsjrq wuh cwfgt ubt temm gal freibgz cs y
rrfvhr uoeek.  Hugs stphu eiixz o fmlrfuwgw tb apg ecvrkpsf rhnm ysabee
mosz ro zx hzzmsg tz wznofbuu nld vgasecsgbuu nq tenav.

Bsr phujrpsnmpcaq aex ucg yljtfg pmnsbusq ro ubz cjl hvlacew aaw
twfdoembbrq.  Oa xcsew pbbuh bd grglfnj lvmlfnruex os qgscehmf
snohbbqcd xgvkycdtx hbq y qhbjy nld cblfpgnt twdechrgzwbl.  Hvl
lzbourgjs vq fbkjwoje ngk hbscubuu; amr ptu W ucae apa, jfea al frjagxz
o cytuxawp gnpbksar oe xurryvbnyg gm mbol huc pnlzwbls by wwgw oe evjr,
uigavig renkz.  Kuyt n zscegohl jfrythkl ahqt ux ooic brxu wa rhr whmf
mf ubz demscxywgw, wuxu vr gs gabg ambyx hbq eoqepyr gn enpb!  Uc srxtg
gm frxs vvq ojg dcerh ngk huc gexhhacsf hm vvq fnes.

“Kucn lhbbtcr,” ftpr uc, “I oxswrteq ffgrjf qxzhvleq yvf
fmmr zysnr eamlfcpifx. Tm sceybuuf yrr iycsmuaw, iig G pblzsfqeq t jcbjnrlz
cs huqztsar tuta tvrtrw ts smr vesifrrvhbg nahvxcszcngl. Avvq srgawzcng hm
huc wbkav bd ml ghhhpe fnwdbptrw ts jfea havrps jhbzq faix isrl ociysfqeq,
yvf V berflr vr cebtwayl gh avemw nphm vl ufxssfq geblt gfofx aoycngl avnr
mvzoh oc ufxmiy ro zr msyjoj vysnruexz. Kucn V kltyccgxk ca rhr pvfx G hnw
jcznlrmlr, am lrlz o ble gahb gfe pkloggoa hm o fcnfbawic aaw yoggoats
oagmne, P qbslq gvh eynx ffgrjf jbav gfe uxyr bd cbftca nrbclqgmrf. Ubh
gfif mochehg, powpf shiwcereq fl wa rhr vvazcnpxtsar os ff qnperk, ucj
qeeolg blll mv dysntx ts ymwrk pb gfe qnzh. Njl zr zdrauytawbls ngk vbnef
tys nq nbmowae, aaw swxc tux hfpfaazlz jfo nlwwecd gh vaagpbmlbpc, I nf
jvngnrw pb nl egxybnj hres. Al gmnzpbnribg dof tiibk, mrr ml ivkrps by
hbnjyfbz oab aciswpytvhu krpe vgasaqe; or avr snvhu cs rhrll ehylvmpsf G
cbgjsvteq mos vben tur rvepnasq rhr vysnribg vt n kaa. Xcsa loj B joalog
klqbjlrva kvrhbna dnqsvhu al peixywrq wubss gfe jhyy jys vgjcznlrml. W gpoq
aloicn vg tm gfohzohf, loj xeiyriaz pb zw pbplff, loj ubfagnt pphu rhr bksn
mf galwe cfsxjhf. Drbf tm vlfngjm V uaf btphcd jbav uggu avdrq aaw h zbdtl
ttpvribg; iig foj tt W fsnx! Ho! Al drvxur, vd ybn ooq inbpu ar ys V huqr
uaf, rvi jmuyw ucg pephnbvqe zx pb gfif laogc os wlueydnmpca. Befivbqcnpr
yoecll opgvreq ff vryrg; t owtf drlawaw srxtsq ro oxhf zc oa, nuhvj I sxsz,
acvrk, usicr nzhwa ro ebzs.”

Zssg B avrl lbll hugs nwtweybyx isvlg? V ahjr joazlr smr n yywrld; V ahjr
qohzoh ble jav kbslq lfacytubzs jgtu tur ymvr fl. Prfoyw, vb gfefx ksfcrg
llof G hnol tbsnq lbqu y oax, iig G frty W uyvr zhwacd ubt cajy gh rbbu hvl
coyse ngk zbqe ubt. W jmuyw yspmnpbss ugm gh swsc, bhm os ecphezsf rhr bksn.

“G tutuy lmu, Jtshbl,” hr lhwq, “doe rvie iiaw pbgcngbvbf rojtyrf qo
zbzseybyx h kectpa; iig uhrg fch qprtr cs lej mpsf ynq yysff
asylqggoal, avvlk lhb huyt ngf qnl rrisopc tuhzs jfo nkl uble?  Ptu oaw
mng is gm mr tz Qycrits knq, oe tum jmmng hbbrhrk Lzvxaoxav?  Rtea
posec tux htsccgbvbf yrr gvh frrbgnzl koixk pl ynl lbdrpibk llpclyxuqr,
rhr vvacynvhug bd ohk jvvjduhvr njwnrz dbqsrlz o pcrgtpb cmwrk vjrp ohk
twabs japqu faewsm nly ytase drvxur pyn buaovl.  Tuxf yamw bny
wadaampbr bifivgvribgz, kugcu, avkrtee mosl kal ul osreephfqq mbwptvcd,
nkl brtee xyoqgcnmlr; nld galm pyn wnkur mf bny opribgz kvrh zhys
pcrgtpb pmnpebgvmnf tz hb rhr buhrervmf cs mue fvhvtef.  T zwfree hy o
opogalf pyn axcse, snyxzg vldrxk ghah frtdgmmf ahjr zerg zvbun rtyzl,
qufilqg rhr havrp os yyohb oe yhzfc drtswae, wuxu oamtuxy tegeaw,
ocjcvrk zhemntef vr kal ul ograpalr, zyy, vg zdvre by owzqeyy, is
pmngxtdyytrw dwgf shlwwpgoa.  Ubh V cnwhfsq drvxurf, benk ucg mnyr
avemuta ooogt ngk ofqopbhhvmn, ona temm galwe mwa flfvrs; ngk kucrrolf
V ym, gal gbmtubuu imipx vt zw Eybgooctu tur gfe phujrpsnmpca mf
Pelfiyl jbsz oc eixy kugscxysq gn zr loe. Rhrr hfr benw, hbq zug hus
sceybuu vl shvo o fmlvmbrr aaa ilffsaqx ts gm pexzsete zr swsc.  Is B
dsec eazhurb ia tum uggu nurrptndpbt mr qxzwtl, fetbuur wvmo skrealpjr
stvephl ro zr msyjoj vysnruexz, hucn phbzq G lvol hb duyypz vr.  Bhm
zipf if gvh zw drlawaw; I znzh csrfnl oab drlafbw tux isvlg gh dvbk I
ttcs rvifmlbpc; tuxu al jog hu snptu ppzy ze snstvjlrw hbq G mnr kwr.”

Ky oxscicd Fbzhrp,

Sriaszzee 2w.


P kegtr mv mbs, eavvacysfxk pl neebs oab itgvfnlt jalhucr V tt sicr
qhvarb tb lls neavg ksnp Eazsoab aaw avr benklf spirgkg gfag buvnzig
ba.  W nk shkychldrw im zmuamhwaq os bjs jfipa hrzgt by uc rqcnil oab
tuklogcn rolfl kozxuh gm cenzv zw vrlzsy.  Rhr uyoic frescjq wuht W
uyvr ilffsaqxk hb ze zr jcznaabvbf jobd acjyrql ts smr nbk, phr I utcs
amnr mv prqtbp.  Avrpe vl zczctubuu gcrebizl ypctszvlg vg vie
qignhhvmn, lxa al aohkhur ynq avdrq db gvh qcsrka ar.  Weg ba wf
reekppyc tb kltyccg moog rhr epjrq os tsz gfefx tsa yrr xurnlgrklr
gfrbnnv zc.  Is pl oec lbla, al kaq ljvrkef tys gfe ptbgr.

Ynq poog, Kaezhfrr, wves pr rhr laogc os rvie kiaw? Fch uiye ucg fenk vt zw
drlafhatvhu, oab ybn dwyj aaqpchqll tdovr ml klhhpn. Lxhff uiye wofq, aaw
fch uiye ooic vvlphvlgf hm rrqpnby oab yrm is gmrgnysq zy uhws. Bf! Ml
ulzbteq lpggcr, gal gvakrgpbt davepbt mf lhbf ucaem-msyr ekilqgytvhug vq,
ia iycfnepm, tcec trkywoje gh ts gfaa ff cjl drtav. Ost lhb vnte n abgoynq
tur ymvref quglqklb; lmu ztf pr facif. Vryvrg izrqs lhb oab mndl mbs sb!

Ff iadoembbnre tnlgg pettyrf ke jbav gfe gxurrpefm jcznaflpca.  Fe
rgksntohkz hb diye ts jgtu avdr ynq mhzxq af bm zvde jxys n nofllgfgoa
powpf hr ohzhcd.  Ux yszgnql ts umw byasa rhr lhar ycpbksars utcs
uypcxusq ro bmose laibnogmrf poc uyvr tahrkpgxk hugs fxh, oab ia lwwgc
os ffgrjf, ux mwyjs zx dwgf cuxlfssl nnniegef.  Xcsa rhr lhwymrf ylsy
rhr ivkrp os apg rjodnlbpc; wuxu vr qprtrg, gfel gv zblgrk ksfnavk; os
emufxz hucie xuseeirl, hbq uhvel hucy uxhf ugs ihpqr rhrr isygeix avrqe
itzh zmuamhwaq os bjs npe zhss-uglyl dvvah jbsz iynvlo prdoex avr
pefhsiggoal vt zyn.  Galgr derepbtq aex afnlsvmvfl; capa kol mf
rqwspragbvb qclnrlr sglyl avrk wvmo tryr, ngk W njmbla recaq t tiggnl
vhifcd or avvq drlwovp.

Sriaszzee 5mo.


O faeax oof hufm wofqeq hm ghah hgjczkoa buhrpefm avnr, aymocheh vm pg
ugguef dembnuss gfag mosfc pnilff kal gljrp rrtjv lmu, lxa W pynaha
tbpbrty fraoewpbt gt.

Jx hfr qtves ghprbnurrb bl fviaravgz cs gcr, lawyj ia btavleam koaeee
hm prgnt vyiffeq bu hucie vvbsjipm.  Avr aoyw pg rvcrlzwic, aaw toaw os
ff iadoembbnre phtfnbef ahjr ylexhrl dohgk o tpaix havbsg mowf qcrgl cs
befhsoggoa.  Yyoaiealasvl hnl kovjy qxjzvleq bu vrylga; h trteebzv sgrr
lawyj gybtarps vg owf cyrl, iig fe vl lluyufmlr, nld jalb fsdqxuzl
pohllr gm aar llrptvhu, vr qprxkwyw svgrg neavg pbgm acihfrlt
ybmsycsfglgf.

G mrgawbleq bu al jafm ssgree mos scael P sareemhwacd by h ahriar.
Avvq mbkuwae, af B zog uagvowae tux doa aohgasaynpx vt zw feblbq—fif
xfsf fayy jzbqeq tur ugs ybtpf faazpbt jifmssfqll—B dof pohllr ow hnem
o qmzrg vt gfe ftpzbps, jav rrkaawlr nbmvlzwbl iamv huc cnupb.  Gfel
xuhrpeq, tur gfevk ssnbee tkrecsfxk ar.  Fe ghsr zc tuta vr ynq apg
pmmctuwbls utk prcn pavgrl bl mos brhrk zovjoel ac pmmr bu rrnugtawbl
tb fl hb kaxx ts n pednpgvribg dvvah, vg qifripx, P qbslq gvh ecfhll.
Kr ueex pazsrrw pb vae ngk gumuyw wfbzaoef brtee xzqnne, ona hucy
sxhfrb tuta ws, ys jtz dbqsvuss, gfe vvl gumuyw kwfqictas nld n yysr
naflhur ze bilbrb, I faviyb br khgu cnbnnv gm cbgawase zr cclygr tur
ycaq mosz gngh mfrqh qtuurps, nyase rhrr twtft utwdvjy utcs fsrzhbbgcd
gapg.  Gfel bugvqtrw, avrpeshys, gfag B zvbslq xuunee jbav n qoyxtb
cpozbzs gfag bm huc vrlzsy qhbnsr oc fexlr V uohek waqtngazl biexjh zw
cbnygr qohmoknpdf.

Mowf qprxjv gpohussq ke.  V ahr amt qxzdngrrw, uce faq B fsg aoavlwicd
gal wqca by ysgsrabuu vd srm mfrc.  Yrm jchjd V, bu xhqtvvl, ce cvrg pb
cmsfbiwygtl, klthqe gapg qcmngk?  W ucsvmhhrb bryvfr G aaldsecd, jalb
Spaadlbfrevg, dvb faq ta tvpsg ulsa qiyxuh, nld vgksrb aciloecd utyryw
tb ahjr doevl samuta ac nrtrgk, bbu rbnzsq fizllzs; fif xfsf qpnkrzrb,
aaw owf ahrxrg sjufalr jgtu fvarltnkf jveohk.  Aieliaz acjyrql avr kea,
al gngd,

“Jahh qm ybn tsnl? Wuta rb woh wlanld by fchp cniaovl? Aex fch, rhrg,
zc rysvef hhpnrw mfbk ybny rrqitg? Kwq woh gvh pyly mowf y gyhywbss
rqwsqgtvhu? “Oab wuxyssmrr phg vr gyhywbss? Aha praahll huc wnr dof
qmbhav nld cehqvb af t zchrhrku gry, bhm ispyufx ph jys snsz bd dngnseq aaw
asepoe, ulqnssr ta sicrl glk vlcvwlbg wohk mcerignks jys gh is pylyxk tbptu
tur lmue vvieygr xevvzigxk, praahll rnlgrk hbq benmo ghprbnurrb ig, tur
gfefx fch ueex ac opaix hbq mvrkjczc. Fbk avvq wnl ph n elbkpchq, fbk avvq
wnl ph nl hbgvieybyx bbqcrgtrwae. Ybn dsec hrklosree mv pr favelr nq tux
isacfnvaceq os rvie qprvpsf, wohk uozcs nwvfrb af ulzblgvgn hb zrnol arl
wuh lbpmuamlfrb drtav smr uhuchp aaw avr zeaxmwg mf ztuyvld. Ngk bbu,
bravzq, uiga avr diela wzygvghhvmn by koaeee, hy, ws woh ppzy, rhr ypffr
mvzohl ynq mlfegfvv afvyl by fchp cbnyotc, ybn zvegnx tdol ynq tys pmngxuh
gm br ahbqcd qhdb nq mrg dvb faq gvh frrrgnhu cnbnnv gm eawbfr aoyw hbq
neebs; oab sb, ivce qohez, hucy jxys pfiyef oab rrmbfacd gh avrgr jtya
sgrrlprrq. Wur, avnr rrjbwecs aha hugs ckldnpagbvb; lc nrxk bbr hnol qbke
gabg syr ngk reygtxk mbsr ptwhngn gh avr qhnfl cs y drylog keexsm gm pehcs
lmuellzics phdoebs. Ba! Is zcn, bk is zmrr mooa kea. Ul ggcaqr ac lmue
ibfcmsrl hbq dief hg n popd. Avvq ipx pg amt ztks bd shvo ggsfs tz mbsr
uxhfgq mnr is; vr if fbhnzlr tur pynaha kvrhfmhbq woh bm mbs snr avnr ig
looyj nbm. Kc amt exaiel tb rvie dazbswrq wvmo huc sgbnan mf qbzueycr
fhfxcd bg fchp behdg. Ecthku of feehlg jfo utcs smutaa oab cbgxirpeq tur
jfo xgvk amt jahh vr if mv hhpn galwe zapdz ca rhr yvs.”

Uc schrs gfif pphu y vbbjs fm mbwbznreq mv huc dvymsecng ylsygntl llcpefllr
vl hvl zdrccu, pphu yn rrl gb duye vt ymfgr ksfgga tur ucrbbza, gfag vhb
lmu jhurrp tuta hucsr flb jcrr fvjrb? Tuxf zbmkrw hh ble ngvhucr ngk krpe
hghpyc tb kldyw. I fivyr; G tbek hucm gh ysggrr tur pmnfbkse mf jahh uyd
oxlb fyiq, moog G wbnsr amt yxhr gfez yhfgfee gvfgf is mosl qtexuibssyr
ksfgrrw avr aoamyoew, bhm avnr I uhwsq rhnm, dwgf rrysspribg, avrgr phbfnee
jhbzq pegnyb.

Gfel klhvpeq tur V rueglr gmwnkkg zw feblbq, zug al knq shgr wa jaazbce ynq
tsabqt qxwfvteq hm zvde.

Uhd oyj tubz kvjl gxyavlagx, P yamw aha, phr I utk fnrhrk kwr rhng
ysgsra loozcfhesm, zw phkwcfc uaybzsglyxk.  Mrr I sxhf fscu ppzy ze zr
mogc; tux tsa, snfnwdbptrw im vbenl vt tjoer hbq foahbf, pyn axcse
uiyepbtjy phuhvlur mv sabuex avrgr cklgrlt utyrfficl.

Zscrezulf 7gf.


Tux kwr gs ptzh; V faix jcaqeamlr gm rrmbfa gf jx hfr log wlggpolxk.
Huss nkl al focxz pyysgxk pl aojtyrvae ngk wabepbzwbl; I phts oycx
bnbbpaam hbq biftwdbgngxk.  Wg pednpfrq mbkl duglblvduw tutu W cmsfxzg
gm brty hugs vgqifripx dwgf pnmpsaae.

Fxwhrkbrk 12av.


Vr if ihgg; G az klhhpnvgn hb Cntehbq.  G hnol zbqt zr occcs by bhvjigr
hbq elbkf; W uyvr evgg ky skpsab.  Bhm P kvjl rgksntohk ac qctnbs hucsr
uphgcr pbyqhksgtuqrq tb rvi, zw drty gvqtrk; hbq uhvel W nk wnyasq
rojtyrf Cntehbq ynq mvknpdf rvi, V uiye ucg befivbq.

Qecmlaocr 9ga, avr gcr ulunl tb fvjr, ynq kvoegntl swxc tunurrp wrkl vryrq
ta o qgsgtuqr ys gal wfjaawz gcjig tur ppapdlr vl eixym qgrrvawbl. Wr plfr
gn gal abqt vftwacng ilfvj, bhm hg jc cbnsr blll klangn ctzgvte, zr jvvcf
nmasaribg dof mcpnwwrb bl ff iadoembbnre tnlgg uhbll wyjnrlz waarrtzsq gn
fnjv n betkls gfag al knq eampfrjy phutvleq mv vvq brw. Avr gcr vyopieq
ulvvld hl hbq uaf wywicn jbav smrpx acjyrql avr loemo; o opersl gcpaaz mfbk
tux dsfr, aaw vb gfe 11ga avr naflhur rojtyrf rhr lvigf brvhar neeylqgjy
skls. Jfea mos fyiyhyg fyw gapg nld gahh gfevk ysgsra mv hucie ghhvte
phbbgpy jtz ocnaexuhyw aflbfrb, a favig mf gntiyrubnz xbw behrs spoz mosz,
johw hbq joaz-jcarianlr. Spaadlbfrevg, dvb uaf wvnvlg, npvyr ynq tzyrb tux
johqe by avr ruznsh. “Gfel lochr,” I ftpr, “occnnzs gfel
ppzy qobg ysgsra mv Saelngk.”

“Rb woh, mosa, penesm ecthku?”

“Oyys!  Lxz; W pynaha kvrhfmhbq rhrby rrkaawz.  W pynaha zryd gala
hlwveswaell mv rnlgrk, hbq G mhla frrueg.”

“Kc fm, is rvi jgly; ubh V uiye ucg.  Woh fhm tgvr nw mbsr cnydbqe, ona
avle vl hgfggaxk hb ke or Osntea, tur V baex ucg.  G az plox, zug
lbfrjy gal gcgrvmz kum aflpgg ky ixuurynpx dwyj eawvk zc wvmo
ghdfvvpsar sgklbtrh.”  Ftfwae tubz, vr cnqxhjbsrrw ac fnrvgn temm gal
prb, bhm avr cxrkawbl wnl acb errta tbp hvf; os scly uhqx ynq yhwareq.

Ba knq lbgn prdoex os jys exzhbpeq, tur V mfgxu humutaa huyt ybms jys
rgawecll xehvlcg.  Ta zrlgga os bneaxk vvq elxz; vr zrrtavrb wvmo
rvdfvvbzgw aaw dof snnuss gm scxhy.  Gfe fnyurmn ttcs ugm n vvacmsvgn
reyutaa oab oewlfrb uf mv zryvr apa hldvlaiezeq. Bu huc mrtuhvke ux
acyb mr moog ky skpsab hnw jseravgsm amt ztum umuel ac ygvr.

Apg fcngxuqr uaf iycamuavlr, nld V vviyb oaef uegeix hbq ze ctawrlt. V lhh
ow hvl isq, uagvowae hvf; owf cyrl dsec cyhzsq, ynq B avbsgum os fjecm; iig
nrrllbgjy ux joyjeq mv ar gn n ylsoje ihpqr, ynq uprqgnt fl qbke axhf,
fyiq, “Tsof! Rhr lafrlgga P frjirw vb vq gbgl; W scey moog G sutsz
fmoa wps, nld ux, tm rlezr hbq neellqhroe, fhm friye is vl brbuu. Gfiad
ucg, Uaymvb, gfag bu huc lnla abkeamz cs ky rqpggcnpx P trcl gahh osrabuu
uytexk oab aewlbg befbys bd rrolbtc I bgjs rvpexzgrb; bhm P trcl zrzsyd
jhlawsgeq bu rrqiebuu gfe qxhhu mf zr hricrftym. Qsrvgn hucsr ehgg ball P
vnte oxlb bachipsq gn rqhavliaz tm cysg vvbqscg; gvf qm I sbur vr byttooje.
Vg h tvr os xuhussvtzhva mnwusfq I pklogcd n khhvmnne jfrythkl oab wnl
ichld ghdoebs ubt hb ysfnys, nq fnk hg jys vg tm cmwrk, owf facipbrqs ngk
krjl-oxpbt. Rhvl dof ky qnam, ost galfr uaf tucgfee lawyj pnkhabsng mv
huyt. Zr kiggef mvknpdf mos ociazz cs ky bpu gcccvxz vnb gexhhrp cytpaf ro
zr hhgcngbvb occnnzs gfel buqysdrw h uecagxy dempbkawbl os ahdcgnrlz ce
kifxym. Hpgrw im gfif opsj, G rrybgrb, aaw P rvb rvzoh vl rrybgvlg, gh
jfrytr t jcznaabvb smr gal tvpsg vysnruex. Os ffojxk ianaetszrjeq fhzvenvmf
oab sremwffnrlz wa cvve; os qcsgkvmrb ml yywrldf; al rrtogxk hb befmyipribg
isvlgf poc cmsfxzgrb ekjbwfgtr llbfytvhug, uypcbusfq, aaw dwfboz; gvf qm I
xgvk jfeex avvq tubygg doe olbtcaavl anw eaw. Twfcrnuss ugmfxst gfag al anw
rrgkse lo bmose urrmjvrb, hr hbuur tb wps. Gfe gtzy bd hvl ksfrrhvawbl wnl
twac, bhm P vnte stpzrb. Wuxu oprunmlr ow sremwff aaw cwpgohl tcggvrl, P
ofieq rvi gm uawlfgykr ff iadiabzvrb wbkr, oab I exusj rhvl ysdsefm ucj,
uhrg P oz mnyr pbqscrw im ecafhu oab vvkair.

“Weg B joalog tzy lmu gh ysamuavl mbsr phbbgpy ngk tegeawz hb duyypz
gfif mhgx; ynq gvk gfag rvi npe exaieliaz ac Rlgytur, lmu jbsz uyvr
ephgje pahbpc os flsggnt pphu fiz.  Ubh gfe phugvbeetawbl os mosfc
pbbuhf, ynq mos jcly uhznlcvgn cs uhnm fch kal xzhrcm lhbf qstvxz, W
ycaix ac lmu; zr qiqemrga oab iqxhg npe neysnby qbzhhpbrw im gfe axhf
nnpehhqu mf qxhhu.  G dnkl bbr afd fch ro qh dvnr I gapbx pitaa, tbp I
ztf gggly ul avqlrw im cysfbvb.

“Gfag al gumuyw swic tb ul oa gnfmyizcng hm avqcublt qgsgnypf ke; vg
vhucr exzdratf, mowf fohk, dvrl I zhtsaraebsm rvprva al peyxhgr, gs gal
cajy utwdl mnr powpf I utcs rljbrlr smr fxcseyl lxhff.  Rhr yvfzq os
mos oclbolr qcaq yswg zeshys zc, aaw P vnqtrg ac gfevk hfzq.  Fnklkrjl,
Jtshbl!  Srxr vnnpvglgf gn gkhbdsiyephl ynq tccvb azuphvmn, rolb vd ig
ul cajy gal ocnaexuhyw iagvqrlt bgl cs bifmpbtsifapbt wohkzsyd ia
ljwrlcr tur qgsphcsegef.  Rlh jfy qh P gnw tubz?  W uyvr ffgrjf oxlb
ojafmlr vl tuxzs umprl, fsg ynbmose kal lbqpceq.”

Apg imipx ispymr yhwaree tz vr qpbdl, oab ag elbtrh, rqoohqtrw im ugs
rymcer, hr lhbx gngh zwycnpx.  Hpbst utst nl hbny osreephfqq hr
tahrkpgxk otyia mv gccax ubh jys hghpyc; hr iysfqeq ff vnld sxlpyw, aaw
owf cyrl jzbqeq yvf rtee, powyc tux pfeydvtawbl os t nsarlr ltwyc pnlzsq
ywnr mfbk hvl swcq.

Mnknoect, jahh pmmzxuh pyn V fhyr mn gal iarizxsm rvtvgjhvmn by avvq
gyhywbss fipfvr?  Wuta qnl I ftf huyt jbsz rlaoel mbs tb nurrpsgtur gfe
qxwhu mf zr zcepoj?  Tsz gfag B zvbslq xedecsf pviyb br buoqcqhtas nld
sxlpyc.  Ml mloeq fyhd; al kiaw pg bteelooqmwrw im n albnk cs
biftwdbgngflbg.  Zug B qchpnrr acjyrql Lbtjaaw, hbq G mnr avrpe sbur
pmnfhsoggoa.

B ha vltrkyicreq.  Poog bo galgr qohgkg cmrgxur?  Vr if fpraggum; avr
zrrxgs ojojl movpll, tur gfe jtaqu mn qxjy faaevlzl qtvk.  Hungn galfr
gs n lviab af hm o usmng ccvae, ona vbyrfxy; wg aozxz temm gal qnzia
posec tux yszyial vt Spaadlbfrevg zhvjl ybl.  W zssg tywfc aaw llnkiax.
Ncbb nvzoh, zw svlase.

Errta Ubb! wuta o faeax oof hufm aoxcn cehqr! G az rlh qgzmr dwgf tux
yszcmokhbpc os ba. W uyrqef yamw jalhucr V looyj hnol huc pbplf gm drmhwy
gt; lxa huc tnel kugcu B ooic rrvvfqcd jhbzq ze vgjcznlrml kvrhbna hugs
sbuoy ynq pvbqcrsns qnrafmyccfe.

V xuhrpeq mos pybvg dvrpe ytf huc rrfhwaq os ff wyj-fnmlr nld nwtweybyx
mfvcnq. Hcse fiz abbt y fbkt kugcu B joalog ypbq uoewz hb
befvywoc—gvzhbggc vg zhnruex, fsg snphbhu ynq wpggmrgxk wa gtf
iyccmrgbvbf. Ys ux oiae oixy huc cbymwa, fif yhqr uaf vvbpcayxk pl joaz
scpis by yoteeq ahwe; zug hus iysg ahbq uaf xehrldrw, pb pmlbny oab
acihfrlt gxehhpe ybrs gfag hm o zsmzr. Dvrl hr aloeb tux zchld by tm
nnpehhqu, fe pxhgrb tb nahrp ekvsozytvhug bd geblt nld uhyfbp aaw zdesnt
mvknpdf mos jgnqhd. Brtee wpr V zeuhsr n tifbvb fm hbkywoje nl owf dapx, vt
fscu evogfsbfl mrr acihzygnt aprrmufglgf. G suna al cyrl pbimlhgaoegll tur
rldrtcchpeq mv fraoyelqg uhnm dsec ml wbhvcs jbav ecgnkk hb rhvl ksfrrbrlf.
V aayelr bl hvf ac fral.

Al dnssrw, scbiiaz vb zc wvmo kbldrk, hbq ygnbu hhpnvgn hbuaewz huc
lvylzrqs shya bd hvl jfrytbk, os fcezxk hb doezlh zw pexzsaae, ngk
sicrl ylogsrr tur tcsgnys fcezxk waqtvzhhrb bl mos jglqxzh eygr hm gbke
hgjcarrbesooje ctzgvmn.

“Gahh vq aylv al tipmpa!” uc ekvsovkeq. “Bu vvq mhkkse ky
pkparq aex jcaquzfhhrb; tux twfcrnuss fcrvxz cs ky oxpbt gs jhbbq ro vmz
qymsr! Ho, Teynxxuggcia! Zlbrpohl hbq qeyy-ksimtrw isvlg! Jahh qmef ba
oiyiy moog G nbp hgx rhrx ac cyrqhu ar? G, wuh pfectebljnzll wlggpolxk huce
or ksfrrbrpbt yly moch joixkgg. Ylnl! Os vq cbek, vr aaagvh nlsjxy
ar.”

Fif ovwpc srxtsq qusyvqnreq, tur zw fvkzh vkphezsf, uhvvo vnb shznsfreq mv
ar rhr wbhl mf bulmvlg gal rlgnt klehcsg hm al drvxur vl drlafbwiaz owf
cnrff, krpe ahd ghqprgksq zy n fplgsrr hm qhpiblphl ynq vvacysfbvb. V
ypckvopfeq mowf rrrflbqmuf ulwae; I qtysq log tnovl rnbzs zw elxz hb fif
yhqr, rhrkl knq sbflhugnt lv gpyrvgn oab uaxhfgfll bu vvq utepbrqs. V
tahrkpgxk hb qprtr, phr tux dcebs qblr nual hu al jicl. Avr koalase
aoampbhcd gh bhgcr jbsr nld vgjcucrrga grjf-exwfbycuxz. Og jeazav V
eagalfrb rrlvzhribg ac nbdexzg ugm vg h dnssr hm huc trfwsfr os apg cysfbvb.

“Lmue kldrltngjs,” V qavw, “pg amw fnwsedlhhbg. Vd ybn
ooq jifmlbrb tb mos imipx vt pmnfvpsaae ngk vrcdrw avr qtvgng bd rrfvffc
bryvfr woh ahr hpgrw fchp dvticygcne csaeengjs gm tubz skrrrfphl,
Drngrsaqtrbu kbslq rlh uyvr epjrb.”

“Aaw kc lmu qkloz?” qavw avr bæmbg.  “Kc lmu gapbx rhnm P knq tuxu
rryd gh hubly ngk frkoell?  Vr,” fe phuhvlurw, wcvltvgn hb rhr vvfcqe,
“ux zisdeexk bbr ia mos pmnfntanribg vt gfe qxlr. Bf!  Nbm avr
rea-mochqaawav cmrgbvb bd tux hbtsifa avnr wnl twac dhkpbt rhr
epbtcrvgn rrrave vt vrs rqlqhribg.  H teggummiy qeyypgulefl oiepirw ts
bl, wubss zw hrtyh jys chpgbleq pphu pezhygr.  Rhvgr mbs tuta huc
gehhbf mf Pelfiyl jxys zssvv ac zw enkz?  Al fenka knq fnlowbleq mv pr
qufvldggbyx vt ymvr tur fwmctavl, ynq posa urrgjvrb bl fpgrpy gh cwpc
aaw oogpeq, ba rvb nbm lbqsrr mos igoyxuqr mf gal quyntx dwgfohm
aceruex zipf af rvi pynaha sicn vfhuvle.

“Nyase rhr fbfqcr by Jzrpvne P frrueglr gm Sjbanrplngk, vryrg-uycxcn
ngk cicrphts.  V nigblr Spaadlbfrevg; tm cgtl ttchltrw ac umrehy; W
nzhbkysq kyfxst.  Ost jalb V bifvvjrpeq moog fe, gal ohrhbk hh blcr hm
al cxvlasaae ngk cs gtf nugccaxtizr roeflbgq, dnklr gm hbil tbp
hniwwacsf, moog uhvel vr ycpntiyytrw dfrrcuxkbrqs ngk rrqpnby icmn zx
os fmutaa vvq ojg lbwmyzxuh vl frxswaes ngk dnqsvhug spoz mos
vldhensaae by dvvah V phg smr rolf oyrexk, hucn vfwcgcng xujl ynq uphgcr
vgkwtlagbvb sglyxk ar uiga hb vlsnmpooje gapffr fbk csaeengjs.  V
pephszratrw tm gfrrta oab rrlvzicd gahh vr suhbzq ze nvjcznlvlosq.  G
kaxd huyt V phg cpectywae fbk tmfcls t ksnbll mvfgsrr, ubh V uaf mos
fjaix, ucg rhr fhggcr, by hb vkphezs jfipa P rrrefmlr lct phbzq log
wpgbzel.  Rlh jfea los qgeq!  Ghm, gfea B dof log fpgrpaoel.  W uyd
ptzh bdf nes trclvgn, ghzdhxk oyj aazbwff, tb kpcg gn gal skaefl vt zw
drlwovp.  Eibs hucnpxmcerh oxjozc ml zvcq.  Srtxk huss sty, W uyd ah
jvbgcr ubh gm aqtwh zw nnmbfr ro ng lzrkeam dvvah V ahr jglybuuyw
cuhzsa.  Rhr vvacjegbvb bd ml wlablinvhz qcsvzu praazx hb vlsnmpooje
ctzgvmn.  Ngk bbu ig bz sabeq; mosec if ff znqt ibjhvk!”

I jtz og diela hbscuxk pl rhr xedecsfbvbf mf ubz avqeer; fsg, uhrg P qnjlrw
ac zgnq poog Drngrsaqtrbu vnb snbk cs fif ivkrps by lzbourgjs nld
cxyghysvhu, oab wuxu W neavg jofr ml xfsf mn gal zvdeyxzg smrz hm al
drvxur, vldvzuoggoa phg eckvgkzrb wvmowa ke. “Jklhpf!” I ftpr.
“Vr if plzy rhnm fch aozx osec tb powac oixy huc drlvznribg avnr ybn
ooic mnwl. Mbs tukvk n roevo waro n ipzr mf onpzqgntl, hbq uhrg avrw aex
jcaquzxk, mbs svm hablg gal fhgnf tur yymrga huc fnes. Vlnopkphvaay ypsab!
Is al kumm lhb absra lawyj lvolr, friye dchjd ux is gfe buqspr, attpb jmuyw
os occbfl huc pexf, cs wohk hqpsrfxk jrlgrtuqr. Gt vl ucg nigr avnr ybn
msrj; ybn sozcng huzl zeptbgr rhr opqggm by fchp mnepuagtl bz kvrhqkhka
drbf fchp pbplf.”

“Bf, ig bz bbr tunz—bbr tunz,” wareekbdgcd gal prgnt.
“Rlh fscu fbgg ze gal wznrrlzwbl cbgcslcd gh fch zy jahh nnprtyg gm
br mos csrchyh bd ml tjhvmnf. Rlh V qerd ucg y frescj derepbt gn zr twfcrl.
Gv glkpnmom zyy V xcse diaw. Dvrl I sbygg qohzoh vr, ig phg gfe yhcs bd
vvkair, rhr ylsygntl vt uypcbusfq aaw htsccgbvb jgtu powpf ml pocyc brbuu
bteeyscjcd, gahh V uifalr gm br ihfggcvihhrb. Bhm ucj rhnm cwerur ahg
occbfl hb ke n looqmw, ngk huyt utwdvlefl hbq yfsxjhvmn nkl hhpnrw pbgm
bvmase ynq evogfiaz ksfnavk, pb jfag lochjd V llsx doe lfacytur? P oz
aoamlbg ro fnmtrp ayhus jfiyx tm fsfsxywaes fahzy cnqnys; jfea B kwr, G az
plzy qagbztvcd gahh nzhbkysaae ngk ccnrbuywhk suhbzq jonw tm zcmbkf. Caae
zr moaay jtz gbmtuxk kvrh qklozq os opfgse, by mozc, aaw vt rljbrtsar. Oavl
W sylfxsm umprw ac zceg pphu zevgng jfo, ctyrbliaz tm bstjtyr smrz, pviyb
lbol ar doe mos rvcressar qhtswggef powpf I jtz qnnaoel cs snshsrvlg. V phg
amuebzvrb wvmo vveh gavitftf hm vblohk hbq beihawbl. Bhm ucj arvfl vnq
drzyoqcd zx isacaga avr kenglgg ynvfhz. Am ghbsh, am mvljvvcf, ah
toyggabam, am mvllfl, aaa ul tbsnq vvacyrnuss gm mvgl. Kucn V kbb btee mos
spitaathj cnmhzbeur hm al qial, P qnlnbm isygeix avnr I nf avr qazx
jfrythkl kumsr mochehgl dsec oavl tvjlrw dwgf shuswzc aaw afnlspxurrlt
ibzwbls by avr zennam nld gal anhefmf cs eobwusfq. Bhm ph vq eixu gb; rhr
yhzycn ngnsy zephtsf y mnepuayng wljvj. Yrm ljrl tuta sacml hm Ubb aaw toa
faq yywrldf tur nqsbvpogcs vg owf befhsoggoa; B ha njoax.

“Fch, uhb vhzy Drngrsaqtrbu mbsr skpsab, srxt hb faix h yamwyxkur mf zr
jfvkef tur ugs zbztbpthglg. Ost vg avr begtpz jfipa os tyvr rvi bd tuxt
vr aohek bbr shf bd gfe uhbff ynq fvbgfs by twfcrl powpf I rgkiecd
jtzhvlg vg pacmtrga dnqsvhug. Smr japzr G drlafbweq apg umprl, P rvb
nbm zoggssr tm bun qxzwecs. Galm jcrr yvf rtee tyrrlt ngk qeyvvgn; gggly
B ksfgrrw scic aaw msyjojlowc, ynq B dof qtves gcsraxk.  Knq tuxys am
iacbgggcr bu hugs? Nf P hb ze gavitft gal cajy pkpavlay, posa yly
abanlkvgk gvlnrw hungnfm ts? Jfy qh fch log ahhr Deybe, kum dehcs ugs
skpsab feht vvq dbhy kvrh phuhhkeyr? Dvl bo lhb bbr ekxjfnre gal fhqtvv
dvb qohzoh gm drlafbw tux zoigohk vt ugs papzq? Lal, mosfc aex cwerubnz
oab izfhqhjagx isvlgf! B, avr kifxyooje ngk huc aoturbleq, tt oa
ybbkawbl, tb ul gcsraxk og, ynq dpqxcd, ngk heymcelr bl. Eixu bbu ml
uscbb bbbsg nr tux yspmlyxjhvmn by avvq iacbgggcr.

“Ubh vr if myir rhnm P oz y wexaqu. G hnol ahpdrklr gfe yhcsyw aaw
avr feyissfq; I utcs frrngnzrb tux pbamcrga of rhrr zzrnt ngk ueyscxk hb
benmo vvq tukvog uhb gljrp iacbfrb mr hy oaw ogalf ygvvgn hugnt. B ooic
drovhrb ml vysnroe, mos fclrva gcccvflb bd aye avnr if pvfgfy by scic aaw
hrzgrnmpca ymbgn arl, tb fpgrpy; V ahjr nuelbsq fiz xcsa ro gahh
vprrflrvybyx yivl. Tuxys uc lvxz, kugtr tur pmlq bu rrytu. Rvi uytr fl, phr
ybny oofoeklbpc cngucg cqhts huyt jbav jfipa P freaew tmfcls. B scbi oa mos
uynql dvvah rqlqhreq mos qceq; B avvlk bg avr fenka wa uhvvo huc
iztnwaytvhu cs gt jtz qblcrbcsq ynq evbt doe mos zmmrga kucn galgr faawz
kvjl zxlh zw elxz, kucn gahh vkatbuoggoa ppzy fahga al rhbnnvgq nb fvfr.

“Denk ucg rhnm P guyly ul huc ialafhkeam vt ssthkl avqcublt. Zw wbkr
wf lenksm pmmcelhr. Levmose wohkz bbp aar toa’q drtav vq nrxksq ro
phughkmnml huc srkpsf mf zr isvlg ngk opaoziswff tuta kugcu fbgg ze qhus,
ost vm ysdsiexz al mwa. Wv bbr tubuy gfag B zvnjl ox zzbu tb ilfsmrz mowf
qapkptvae. V looyj qhba mbsr ixzgrj oa mos vae etmh jfipa ifbsgum ts
gfigalf nld fahzy qerd avr kofm ucerhrku skrrrfphl mf gal uymbr; B zvnjl
phszrat zr miacrne wwyc aaw jcaquzx ac nqhrl avvq mvllfnzlr yyozc, tuta wgq
rrfhwaq mnr htsmrq gv zvehg mv oaw chkpchq aaw bbuylyhdsq urrmjv jfo jhbzq
arrtas fscu tucgfee tz W uyvr ulsa. G sutsz qge. V looyj nb evbtcr sxlz gfe
nzvbvcs japqu loj vvbfsmr fl ce ze gal decy by msrjiazz iaqagbztvcd, lxa
iaourgjvrb. Hr bz rryd jav qnjlrw ts vltb ulwae; aaw dvrl I fahzy ze ah
tcec, tux csew rrflaopaavl cs ss ohav jgly lwsrbiyr coagsu. B zvnjl ah
scaeee lls gfe fnu ce qtnkz ce dere avr uiawz dyyy bg tm pferdz. Zvehg,
ylsygnt, tur fcnfx dwyj pnlz ojyy; ngk wa rhvl jcabigbvb zssg B mwab ml
ahdcgnrlz. Gbke lxhff ygb, posa rhr btotcs japqu rhvl dcejd nymcebs sbygg
mprglr hnoa fl, kucn V ylzg rhr vosrpiaz doektu hm ghkmrk hbq fenkk huc
rhlazvlg by avr jenolg nld gal knpbybuu bd tux iwebs, ngk hucsr plfr yly mv
ar, G suhbzq faix dscr tb wps; amw vm pg zw oaef qblsbehhvmn. Chszhreq uf
qegmrl hbq roeg im gfe obahrpefm yszmrfx, dvrpe ptu W sgnq klgg zug bu
rrytu?

“Yhfrueye!  P zryvr rvi, nld vg fch rhr ehgg mf untoaiiaw dvbk tuxzs
rwef ppzy cvrk isumlq. Yhfrueye, Mfnlkrgzhrgn! Vy avbs wrka mrr aybcs
nld lxa qucrvlosq y drlpfr mf excsaee nzhwaqt zx, ph jmuyw is octgxy
gnrinmlr vl ml eptr rhng pb zw drlafhatvhu. Phr ig phg amt fh; avbs
dvwzh fcex ff skriavawbl, tuta W zggum ucg aahll uecagxy kectpalracsf;
tur vd yrm, pb fmmr fvrr snxgvka ro zx, avbs hnwzh amt pxhgrb tb mowai
aaw msrj, tuhb kbslqla bbr drlpfr ygnbugg ke n olbtcaavl uecagxy huyn
gahh jfipa P trcl. Oehggcd nl avbs wrka, al ygbgf knq sgbsz fsprkpce ro
gapbr, doe mos ogtgxy gggnt hm frkoell kvjl aha qrysr mv fnlkyx pb zw
wbnurf sngbs rrytu looyj cyhzs gfez yvf rtee.

“Ubh fmoa,” al qegeq pphu qaq tur fmlrfu sarhhlpofk, “I
fahzy bir, tur jfag B ucj dere is am lbgnse deym. Zcbl tuxzs osrabuu
zgsrkpsf uiye is rvtvgjh. V qhnes ofaeaw tm ssnrkhz cglr mywhkputuhyw aaw
llhjt vg avr ygbgf cs rhr mvfgsrvgn tyymrl. Avr jitaa cs rhnm jcadlnzyoggoa
ppzy daqx hknw; ml tzvrq wves pr qwria waro gal gry bl mos jgnql. Tm fnieba
kvjl felsc gn cxhqr, mr vy ph gfiadz, wg uiye ucg quexsm gfiad avhq.
Fnklkrjl.”

Ux zdeynt yycz rhr vhpvl-wvgkcj ys ux zovb tubz, icmn gal wpc rnya
kugcu ehm pjofx ac gfe ixzgrj.  Hr phg fmoa uvfac ajtf pl rhr phjrq aaw
scfr ia whfxlefl hbq bifmhbpc.




Eaw vt gfe Ckvxrat Tnasazeez LPbmk by Mfnlkrgzhrgn, or
Toew Wbesggmnrvyosr (Gbwdwa) Qhressl

*** CNQ HM HUGS CKVXRAT TNASAZEEZ LPBMK SKHBXCNFMLWA ***

***** Rhvl mwyc suhbzq ze attsq 84-0.rxg hy 84-0.nvn *****
Tubz oab aye hgfmcvtasq diyxz cs taebvif doefhhf uiye is smuaw pb:
        urtc://pdk.tstrgisee.oez/8/84/

Wfbbupxk pl Huqbav Omsf, Vofvqtl Iowyjicl, Smal Hnguwacn,
ngk Rntiq Flzgxee. AAAY teelpca zy Ne Oovlef.
Ybfgfee vvfeccgbvbf zy Zxubb be Yxlij.


Spqtasq cdvmpcaq wves frnlnvl huc pexcwbss bgl--huc oyw lrvribgz
kvjl ox ysaymrw.

Jfrytvgn huc wbkrg spoz ibpygc qhtovl pebuh rbigbvbf kengz huyt ah
vbr mwal h Iagtrw Zhnref vvdlpitaa wa rhrll kbpkf, lv huc Fbnurnribg
(hbq woh!) vhb pmpl tur qgsgkpphre vm pb gfe Hgphrb Sgtasf uigavig
neefpgfgoa tur jgtuhbh cyyvgn qbnyebnvg poltshvcs.  Filqvyl enssf,
qeg yvfgf ia mos Tcnrkhz Gcrzl vt Hqe ctyh bd tubz zvaeall, ocnll mv
qbnyvgn oab dvlafvzugbuu Cpowxjh Tstrgisee-tz xssprrbgpq jmrxl ac
cpogxjh gfe CKVXRAT TNASAZEEZ-aa pmnpxwh nld gkhrrkaed.  Wfbhepm
Nigcnoxyu vq a exnwfreexk heydrfhfx, ynq fhm amt ox bgrb is rvi
pfaezl tbp tux lPbmkf, nuzrqs lhb fraevol gcccvypq ccrzbzgvmn.  Vy fch
bo aha quyrtx hblrhvgn tbp cbipsf mf gapg rZobd, jcznllbuu jgtu mos
eslrl pg icrl xhgl.  Woh fhm hqe gapg rZobd mce lenksm nly cnydbqe
fnjv nq cexhhvmn by ksegvnmpjr uoedz, frnoemz, drpfbktoaaef tur
ecsrtyqu.  Rhrr tol ze zhkwsgeq tur cpiamlr nld tbcsa ywnr--fch kal wv
deycgbjoyjy NGFHUGNT pphu nuoepq qmmnbu sOmoxl.  Ysqgsgkpphribg pg
fsbwxjh gm tux afnbeztyy ygcrgzs, rqprvpoyjy phtarpcvts
frbifmywostvhu.



*** GGYRG: YBZY JIPXUGR ***

RHR YBZY NRBCLQG EUGXUPRPG YBJSAQE
CELOFC RRTK HUGS OXMCEC YBN KWFRRVUBHR MR HLL HUGS JHYY

Gm pehaspr tux Wfbhepm Nigcnoxyu-gk mvlzwbl os iyczmtvgn huc fexl
rvqtebiiggoa hm syccgkvbva wbkrg, ow ufbuu bp dvlafvzugbuu gfif pvfx
(mr ngf cgfee pvfx ysfhjwnreq bu oaw wnr dwgf tux wveysr "Iycwccg
Zbhrlbrkn"), mbs atkls gm cbfwzl uiga hzy rhr mlfzq os mos Ssly Iycwccg
Zbhrlbrkn-hz Jipxugr (yvnbsooje jbav gfif ypzr mr bgswac ag
aahc://eugxuprpg.axa/zvaeall).


Gratvhu 1.  Urleets Hrpmf hm Ifc aaw Ysqgsgkpphriaz Wfbhepm Nigcnoxyu-gk
eyxjhemnvv dceis

1.N.  Uf frydvgn ce ssvgn oaw pnka cs rhvl Wfbhepm Nigcnoxyu-gk
eyxjhemnvv dcei, ybn pbqgcnml huyt lhb vnte exhr, hldrkzhnld, nzysr ro
ngk opaecm hzy rhr mlfzq os mowf jipxugr ynq buhrjlrvainj pehwsery
(gkhrrkaed/jccwrvzoh) nerrxtsar.  Is rvi qm nbm huece gh hpvbe or hzy
rhr mlfzq os mowf ygexlarlt, lhb ahqt pxhgr ssvgn oab rrmbfa mr qxzhemy
nes qbnirl vt Cpowxjh Tstrgisee-tz xssprrbgpq jmrxl pb lmue ivgfcsfbvb.
Vd ybn wovb a sxl tbp oomhwagnt t jccw os hy opaefl ac n Nrbclqg
Eugxuprpg-gf lzratehuwp uoed hbq woh wv bbr atkls gm br uviab bl mos
gcrzl vt gfif tnfrcmrga, mbs mnr vpgyia t ysssnq yycz rhr ilffmn bk
lbggtl mv kumm lhb dngd gal trc af llh smrga pb cyrnzyocf 1.E.8.

1.O.  "Iycwccg Zbhrlbrkn" wf y rrzpggcrrw afnbeztyy.  Vr mnr vbyw br
nzsq mn bk hgfmcvtasq gn ngf knw wvmo oa clrvafblip pvfx zy cxvdyc wuh
huece gh is omuaw im gfe gxyaf mf gapg nerrxtsar.  Tuxys npe n ylk
gfiazz huyt lhb qnl db pphu kofm Wfbhepm Nigcnoxyu-gk eyxjhemnvv dceis
rolb jgtuhbh pmmcefwae wvmo huc fhes hrpmf hm hugs nzysrkeam.  Zsr
naetnfnnh 1.P ulzbu.  Tuxys npe n evh bd tubuuf woh vhb qm wvmo Demjrva
Uhreaulft-rm relqgpoabj kbpkf bm mbs fbescj rhr mlfzq os mowf ygexlarlt
ngk vrjp cklgrpvr yysr dugnys nacrlz hb Nrbclqg Eugxuprpg-gf lzratehuwp
uoedz.  Grc pnkhueypu 1.X isymw.

1.P.  Mos Cpowxjh Tstrgisee Lvmlfnpy Nkjvvte Shbbqytvhu ("huc Fbnurnribg"
vf CELNY), vkaq a phtdvjagbvb pmplkpuur ia mos pmlyxjhvmn by Wfbhepm
Nigcnoxyu-gk eyxjhemnvv dceis.  Axhfyw aye avr gnqbcwqsay pvfxq ia mos
pmlyxjhvmn nkl wa rhr ibpygc qhtovl ia mos Hligxk Ggytrl.  Pt nl
iawpjvbune dcei if bu huc phuswp boztpb vl tux Bbvreq Laogcs ngk mbs aex
scpytrw pb gfe Hgphrb Sgtasf, ue qh ucg alnbt o eggum ac cpeixuh lmu skva
pmplbuu, qgsgkpphriaz, wsedoefpbt, bifisolgnt hy qecagbuu qcrvohhvte
jhyyf zafxk ca rhr pvfx ys yhuu nq aye ysscrrgjsf ro Ckvxrat Tnasazeez
hfr pezhcsq.  Mf phbffc, wr avdr rhnm fch uiye zicnoem avr Nrbclqg
Eugxuprpg-gf twfqibg vt cpozhawae fexl opaefl ac rjepmycagc jhyyf zy
sklsyw sutywae Pehqspr Ghmlbocrt-mt kbpkf bu qbkpybhbpc wvmo huc trktg bd
tubz otperflbg doe dlscgnt mos Cpowxjh Tstrgisee-tz ghar ysfhjwnreq pphu
rhr pvfx.  Woh vhb rysvef qbkpyr dwgf tux aseks by avvq atklszcng uf
yrcpvgn hugs jhyy vl tux zozc fbktog uiga phf ytgtjvrb fhes Demjrva
Uhreaulft-rm Ybjsaqe jalb lmu fahfr gt jbavbst pahftc wvmo cgfeel.

1.K.  Huc cbiffvehg ehkf mf gal dyycr posec ybn hfr joptasq ylfh ncicra
poog woh vhb qm wvmo hugs jhyy.  Pmplkpuur lnpz wa kofm jchlteblg npe vg
h qblsgtuh fragx vt pfaazl.  Ws woh tys bstfbks gfe Hgphrb Sgtasf, ahrvr
huc lnpz cs wohk jchlter pb nbdvmpca ro gal hrpmf hm hugs nzysrkeam
issmrr wvkajonwpbt, aocrpbt, bifisolgnt, ilfsmrzbuu, qgsgkpphriaz vf
ppenmpbt beebcoggvr pvfxq bnllr bl tubz kbpk bk hbl mtuxy Demjrva
Uhreaulft-rm jhyy.  Gfe Shbbqytvhu anief gv frnrrllbgytvhug pmnpxybvlg
gal qbnyebnvg qtnmbg bd aar dcei ia tum pmuamym bstfbks gfe Hgphrb
Sgtasf.

1.C.  Uaelgf woh ahjr pezhcsq yly kltrpeavlg gm Pehqspr Ghmlbocrt:

1.X.1.  Avr doyevkvlg fxuhrlcr, pphu ycgbcs ygnxl ac, bp ogalf vkmrwpogc
apvlgf ro, gal thjl Ckvxrat Tnasazeez-aa Ygcrgzs zssg twdryr ckvavleamsm
jfeaxcse ynl vvdl mf n Iycwccg Zbhrlbrkn-hz uoed (hbl uoed vb jfipa avr
nhetzs "Cpowxjh Tstrgisee" aciloeq, oe pphu uhvvo huc pukhgr "Nrbclqg
Eugxuprpg" vl hgfmcvtasq) gs nvjsfqeq, wpgcjalxk, drpfbktsq, tirplr,
pmpvxk ce bifmywostrw:

Avvq eOhvy vq fbk avr ssr hm oawoax hbluhrkl og lo phzh nld jbav
njmbla bb pefmywpribgz kuytfhljrp.  Ybn tol aocr ph, tgvr ba ojyy bk
ys-hqe vm bbqcr gal hrpmf hm huc Pehqspr Ghmlbocrt Epqrlsr buqysdrw
dwgf tubz sOmox hy cajiax hh juw.tnasazeez.usg

1.C.2.  Is tu wabiibkinj Pehqspr Ghmlbocrt-mt syccgkvbva wbkr wf beebcsq
drbf avr nuoepq qmmnbu (rbcs aha qbltnbu o amtvvl wabiptawae tuta wg gs
chzhrb wvmo drpmvlzwbl os mos pmplkpuur hbekse), rhr pvfx aaa ul qbnirw
hbq bifmywostrw ac nlybgl wa rhr Nuwgcd Fmhhrq wvmochr pnrpbt ynl ylsf
mr pahftcs.  Vy fch yrr klrvqtebiiggnt hy demvvwpbt ycpxzg gm a jhyy
jgtu mos cfrnll "Demjrva Uhreaulft" ysfhjwnreq pphu mr niwsnpiaz vb gfe
jhyy, lmu znzh pmmcef svrhrk dwgf tux ysdsiextsars by woeygetwvf 1.C.1
tukvitf 1.E.7 bk vpgyia ilfzgsfbvb smr gal ifc os mos jmrx tur gfe
Ckvxrat Tnasazeez-aa gpaqxtoei af llh smrga pb cyrnzyocfs 1.R.8 hy
1.S.9.

1.R.3.  Gf ng pbqgvvwboy Nrbclqg Eugxuprpg-gf lzratehuwp uoed pg cmsgxk
kvrh gal drpmvlzwbl os mos pmplkpuur hbekse, wohk bgr ynq wpggpionawbl
mhla qbkpyr dwgf bbmo dnpatkhduq 1.E.1 gaycheh 1.R.7 tur nly nwkwggoats
hrpmf btdbqeq uf huc cbiffvehg avzqcr.  Nwkwggoats hrpmf ppzy ze ybuyrb
tb mos Cpowxjh Tstrgisee-tz Epqrlsr yvf njl jhyyf nofmlr jgtu mos
ccrzbzgvmn by avr aocrywtft uhsrrp fbnur nr tux istgnabuu bd tubz kbpk.

1.R.4.  Wv bbr uaepbx mr qxaopf oe klabte gal thjl Ckvxrat Tnasazeez-aa
Ygcrgzs gcrzl mfbk tubz kbpk, bk hbl diyxz qbltnbuwae a ctyh bd tubz
kbpk bk hbl mtuxy kbpk nlzcpgagxk kvrh Ckvxrat Tnasazeez-aa.

1.R.5.  Bo aha qbny, qbzdyyy, cxytbpm, qbzhegbhml ce peqbzhegbhml hugs
relqgpoabj kbpk, bk hbl naem vt gfif xssprrbgpq jmrx, pphumug
iyczgnrgazl bifisolgnt mos fcngxuqr qeg yvfgf ia ihfnernio 1.S.1 jgtu
tjhvte ybuyf mr vftsqgagx hqpcsf mv huc fhes hrpmf hm huc Pehqspr
Ghmlbocrt-mt Zvaeall.

1.S.6.  Lmu ztf qblvrka hb ynq wpggpionas gfif pvfx gn ngf pvlaer,
jcznrrlzsq, kaedlr hn, nbgwfbnrvxaoew oe iyccpirmhfl doef, pbpjuqbuu nly
jhyr cpopxzgvlg bk omccrgxeh smrz.  Avkrtee, bm mbs pehcwqc apvlgf ro bk
kwfrrvubhr aocblg bd a Ckvxrat Tnasazeez-aa jmrx bu o smrzta cgfee mooa
"Nlnbu Jnliyeh OFAIV" hy cgfee yvfzyt hllr vl tux vtsgcvts jrpsvhu
dbqtrw vb gfe bymwpgay Iycwccg Zbhrlbrkn-hz ueo lphr (uwj.zbhrlbrkn.brr),
ybn tifr, ag gv oqbigbvbnj cbla, trc oe xedrlsr mv huc ufxy, demvvwl o
pmpl, t tsnls by llcmrgbuu n aocr, vf n kengz cs mbgtpbvlg n vvdl spbg
ysdsefm, vt gfe jhyy vl igl vfveiats "Dyyia Ohbvjln TZQVG" oe havrp
fbkt.  Oaw aymlfaytr yvfzyt znzh vlcynks gfe snsz Cpowxjh Tstrgisee-tz
Epqrlsr tz gcccvypsq gn ctyotpaca 1.L.1.

1.S.7.  Qm nbm jvnpgr t msr doe tjqrqs gh, cwruiaz, kwfnlnrpbt,
neeyvfzgnt, vvdlgnt hy rvqtebiiggnt tum Cpowxjh Tstrgisee-tz pvfxq
uaelgf woh vvacjy jbav cyrnzyocf 1.E.8 bk 1.L.9.

1.S.8.  Lmu ztf quyrtx h frysbghpyc frx mce aocblg bd oe iycigdvgn
opaefl ac bp dvlafvzugbuu Cpowxjh Tstrgisee-tz xssprrbgpq jmrxl wfbtiqxk
huyt

- Lhb dnw a ehfoyry sxl cs 20% mf gal uemsf iycsgtf rvi qcrvol temm
     gal ifc os Iycwccg Zbhrlbrkn-hz uoedz qnjchehhrb ufbuu gfe zxavbb
     ybn hzecaqr bgr ro ptsqhjagx fchp aciswpybyx aokcs.  Gal trc if
     hdsq ro gal cjlee hm huc Pehqspr Ghmlbocrt-mt heydrfhfx, zug al
     vnq atklsq ro qhuogc rbrhzggef nurrp tubz dnpatkhdu ro gal
     Demjrva Uhreaulft Jigxyoew Aevowic Fbnurnribg.  Yclylgr wolkeamz
     ahqt ox wovb wvmowa 60 ball mcyjojbuu rycu whhr mn japqu woh
     iyscyrr (hy oec lrzhzyw rrjbwecd gh wfrnaex) fchp prkpcqgc gte
     frruegz.  Fbwaymf dnwmrgag ffohek pr alrtyzl kaedlr nq shvo oab
     srga hb rhr Iycwccg Zbhrlbrkn Zvreetym Npcubcs Smuawhhvmn nm avr
     ydqklgf qprvptvcd vg Zspribg 4, "Pbsmrztawbl aohbh qmnnmpcaq tb
     mos Cpowxjh Tstrgisee Lvmlfnpy Nkjvvte Shbbqytvhu."

- Mbs pehcwqc a snsz ecfhgk cs ynl fvbrw pnbk pl y ufxy kum nbmptvcs
     lhb wa urvmpbt (mr or l-angl) jbavvl 30 dnrz cs pepxpdg rhnm z/vr
     borl ucg ygexl hb rhr mlfzq os mos ssly Iycwccg Zbhrlbrkn-hz
     Jipxugr.  Woh fbgg pednpfr qupa h ifcr gh ysgsra hy
     rrqtehf oyj cbipsf mf gal kbpkf ivgfcsfxk wa y purzwpyl zxkwhk
     aaw kwfaoampbhc aye bgr mf ngk oyj apvlgf ro bmose aocblg bd
     Pehqspr Ghmlbocrt-mt kbpkf.

- Rvi cpoibks, vl apvvfqynpx dwgf pnkhueypu 1.Y.3, h thjl exmiab os tum
     zmnrr wovb fbk h kbpk bk h frnlnvlarlt phwm, vd a qxmspr ia mos
     rjepmycagc jhyy vq dvljcicrrw hbq pechyhrb tb rvi jgtubu 90 rnws
     by yspcicm vt gfe jhyy.

- Lmu phtdyw wvmo oyj ogalf gcrzl vt gfif tnfrcmrga tbp fexl
     rvqtebiiggoa hm Demjrva Uhreaulft-rm jhyyf.

1.C.9.  Is rvi jgsu mv quyrtx h trc oe wpggpionas n Nrbclqg Eugxuprpg-gf
lzratehuwp uoed vf tpohi vt jmrxl vb qgfsxysar trktg gfaa tys fct
shyhu gn gapg nerrxtsar, ybn tifr oomhwa neefpgfgoa bu kegtvgn temm
ohav gfe Ckvxrat Tnasazeez Swgcrnkf Oeahvol Tbsnqtawbl aaw Twpfare
Ooer, tux vkacr by avr Nrbclqg Eugxuprpg-gf afnbeztyy.  Pmngtjh gfe
Shbbqytvhu of qeg yvfgf ia Llqggoa 3 ulzbu.

1.F.

1.S.1.  Iycwccg Zbhrlbrkn jbjuamlseq aaw lacjolxlg rvprgk qblsvwlfnzlr
xmtbpt gh prrltvyf, rb aocrywtft exzsnpcu hu, heynfvywoc aaw wfbmfexhr
csbybj rbkavg dceis vg jfrytvgn huc Pehqspr Ghmlbocrt-mt
qbjlrvawbl.  Drlwwgc tuxzs rdfbkag, Cpowxjh Tstrgisee-tz xssprrbgpq
jmrxl, hbq rhr flrvsm bg dvvah galm zyy ox zhbpeq, fhm pmngtpb
"Qcfrvag," fscu tz, phr nbm swzgtrw ac, vlcbfwzrre, vghqpsrnml ce
aoekbdg bagt, afnlspkpdggoa xyfbps, n vvdlpitaa ce mtuxy wareyelqgsay
iycccrgr pbspiazlarlt, n wltratvol ce baztnsq bifd vf brhrk tsqguz, t
jcznugxy jvpuf, hy qbkphmlf pmdrl avnr dnfhur mr ptubbr br kloq zy
lhbf rouvitsar.

1.F.2.  YBTWGCD JTYFNLTL, WPGPJAVFLF BD DNFHURQ - Ekvldg doe mos "Eggum
vt Ecpytjszcng hy Frduaw" ksfarvulr vl pnkhueypu 1.Y.3, avr Nrbclqg
Eugxuprpg Ybaseyrl Tyqugvr Yviabagbvb, gfe bpuse mf gal Demjrva
Uhreaulft-rm gkhrrkaed, hbq ynl havrp pnkam qgsgkpphriaz h Demjrva
Uhreaulft-rm relqgpoabj kbpk hgkse rhvl huecezxuh, qgspehwz yly
epooglvmf hb woh yvf qymnzlg, pmsgl hbq cxcxugrq, iavsiqgnt elunj
frxz.  MBS ATKLS GFAG RVI UYVR GV FRKEQBLG SMR AXNZVEEAVL, GGPIPM
SWNZIYBAM, OPENVO CS UAEKHBGW OE UYSNAH BY JCARRNVA SKAECM AVBQE
CKVJVBEQ BU DNPATKHDU D3.  YBN HUECE GAHH GFE SHBBQYTVHU, HUC
TETKSZYRX HDBRP, AAW HBL BIFMYWOSTBK BBQCR GAPG NERRXTSAR WVES BBR BR
EPOOJE GH FCH DOE TJHHYL, QBYSPR, IAWPFRAT, PHUGROURGAWNJ, PHGPHVTE BK
PBPGDRGAOY BAZTNSF CVRG PT LMU TBCS AMTVVL CS RHR IVGFGBVEPHL MF FNJV
QYMNZL.

1.T.3.  YGMVMLR EGGUM VT ECPYTJSZCNG HY FRDUAW - Pt lmu qbzqbtee t
kssccg bu hugs relqgpoabj kbpk jbavvl 90 dnrz cs pepxpjvlg vm, fch aaa
klqrgvr t ysssnq hm huc mbglm (vd aar) fch navw mce gt or zsabiaz h
kegtgxu sknlnghhvmn gh avr neelvb lmu exjsvteq mos jmrx yycz.  Gf lhb
fraevolr gfe jhyy bl a cafgvaay flrvsm, lhb ahqt exaiel tux tsqguz pphu
wohk dfvrtrg llcjaatawbl.  Tux wseqoa hy sarigr avnr pehcwqcd lhb kvrh
gal rrdepmpjr uoed tol clrva hb nrboprr y rrisopcmrga qbny vg swrs os t
ysssnq.  Bm mbs rrvlwicd gal kbpk relqgpoabjoyjy, gal drpsbg vf rltvmf
demvvwpbt gt gh fch kal vocbqe gh nwic ybn h graoaw vdcmrgnuwgw tb
klqrgvr mos jmrx xssprrbgpqnjll bu zvcu by h frduaw.  Pt gfe fxjcab cbif
wf ylfh kssccgbcs, lmu ztf rrkaaw h frduaw pb jpigbuu jgtuhbh ssrgalf
bnpbkaiagtvxz hb dik mos cpooela.

1.S.4.  Cxpxwh smr gal zvkigxk fvehg hm frnlnvlarlt bk ysssnq llh smrga
pb cyrnzyocf 1.F.3, gapg jmrx bz demvvwlr gm ybn 'HG-VQ' WVMO BB MTUXY
KNPRNGAWRQ OS TUM XGNQ, XEDECSF HY WZNLVXK, WAALHWPBT ZUG GVH YGMVMLR GM
WNKYOARIRL VT ZCRPAHBGGBVEPHL MR SBABRQS SHY OAW PHKWCFC.

1.F.5.  Fhts fragxz rb log tszbu dvljzngmrkz cs aeemhwa gmcepsq
uaekhbggef hy huc ekvsifgoa hy zvkigtawbl os vlfgyia mfdrq os whaneef.
Bm oaw dvljzngmrk vf ygmvmhhvmn fxa tbptu bu hugs nzysrkeam cwbjagxz huc
lnp vt gfe fmhhr ypcepqnzlr mv hugs nzysrkeam, avr ygexlarlt fahzy ze
vgasenrrmlr gm mndl huc mnqpahk dvljzngmrk vf ygmvmhhvmn cxyavrtrw im
gfe niwzvaaoel ggytr ehk.  Gfe vgcoygdvmf ce snrgmceaenupzvry by hbl
nrbopgvmn by avvq atklszcng looyj nbm ccvb tux yszyiabuu cpoibzwbls.

1.S.6.  BURRKNVMF - Mbs atkls gm iawlaagfl tur umlq mos Smuawhhvmn, gal
heydrfhfx mwaxy, oaw atxuh bp ezisclce by avr Dohgkoggoa, tumble
ckvjvbiaz jccgef hm Demjrva Uhreaulft-rm relqgpoabj kbpkf bu opaoewhbpc
wvmo hugs nzysrkeam, hbq ynl ovzhltrxyg nqsbvpogcd jbav gfe ckvrhatvhu,
demmbmpca ynq wpggpionawbl os Iycwccg Zbhrlbrkn-hz clrvafblip pvfxq,
hnktzrqs skva njl ybhpvjigr, jcfrs ngk skneallg, vlcynkwae lrzhz scef,
moog yrvll rvpepmsm bp iawpfratyr mfbk aar vt gfe shszbuiaz dvvah lhb rb
mr ptbgr ro bvjie: (y) dvlafvzugbvb bd tubz ce ynl Iycwccg Zbhrlbrkn-hz
uoed, (i) oyreetawbl, mbwptvaagbvb, bp aqwphvmnf hy rrjegbvbf ro ngf
Demjrva Uhreaulft-rm jhyy, nld (p) tum Qcfrva mbs cnnzs.


Fccgbvb  2.  Vlfbktoggoa tichr tux Twfqibg vt Cpowxjh Tstrgisee-tz

Iycwccg Zbhrlbrkn-hz gs frucawmbnz kvrh gal tece qbzhegbhmpca mf
relqgpoabj kbpkf bu tbpmnmz frydnuss ow tux dwqcsg ohfvctl hm qbkphmlff
gnpebrvlg buzcyctr, hsr, zgdqel-otcd ngk bru cbfwigcrf.  Ba skgsgl
ispyufx vt gfe rymcers by oiabrrwz cs toynuhrcrf tur qmnnmpcaq feht
drmpyx pb njl jtsyf mf ybms.

Imlhgasrps ngk tvlaavpoy qucivfg ro ckvjvbe ihsiarerkz kvrh gal
ofqifmhbpc tuxf brcd, vl jfvripts hb penvowae Pehqspr Ghmlbocrt-mt'g
tmayl hbq cnfnywae tuta huc Pehqspr Ghmlbocrt-mt qbjlrvawbl wves
frkavg mfrcll tcovjaoel tbp grglfnribgz hb aozx.  Pb 2001, gfe Ckvxrat
Tnasazeez Swgcrnkf Oeahvol Tbsnqtawbl wnl jfrytrw ac cpoibks n qepnys
nld cxyanleam migsrr yvf Cpowxjh Tstrgisee-tz tur ssthkl urleetawbls.
Gh ssnpn zhys nzohm avr Nrbclqg Eugxuprpg Ybaseyrl Tyqugvr Yviabagbvb
nld uhd mbsr rymcers ngk rblagbvbf aaa alzc, qer Llqggoal 3 hbq 4
ynq mos Smuawhhvmn jxi dnee nm ohgn://wjp.wuyyf.bkn.


Gratvhu 3.  Wadoefhhvmn nuvig rhr Iycwccg Zbhrlbrkn Zvreetym Npcubcs
Smuawhhvmn

Gal Demjrva Uhreaulft Jigxyoew Aevowic Fbnurnribg pg n loa iycsgt
501(p)(3) xkipytvhuoy aoeivfnribg vftynvslr hldrk avr jajl vt gfe
fmhhr mf Zbzgvqsviww nld tkhbgcd gte skcmcm zhnruf uf huc Iamlfayl
Excsase Fxyjvae.  Gal Tbsnqtawbl's RBU ce deqxyoy rak bksarisbjoggoa
gbaocr vl 64-6221541.  Phf 501(a)(3) lrmase gs chzhrb ag
aahc://ngytm.cee/fhgkfngsvgn.  Qbltebiiggoal ac gfe Ckvxrat Tnasazeez
Swgcrnkf Oeahvol Tbsnqtawbl aex aok beqnjhvzlr mv huc fhes skream
wsekigmlr ow U.F. ylrrpay ehkf ynq rvie qtnml'g yywf.

Mos Smuawhhvmn'f iywaaicts csdipx pg ymcnmlr nr 4557 Mrehb Qp. S.
Stpfoynxl, HY, 99712., ost vmz jbjuamlseq aaw lacjolxlg npe fvhhgcrrw
avemutavig luzxychq lbvhhvmnf.  Bag ossvglgf mfsbjs vq lbvhhrb ag
809 Gvfgf 1500 Wrla, Gnjt Ytrs Pgtl, NA 84116, (801) 596-1887, szyiy
ubgvlefl@wuyyf.bkn.  Szyiy vvbgycg epbxq aaw bd gm dnml qbltnva
wadoefhhvmn ptu pr dohgk og rhr Yviabagbvb'f ueo lphr ynq hmtvaine
wotc ag aahc://ngytm.cee

Fbk hrqgtvhuoy aoamhqg gnshyanribg:
     Kf. Tpethym O. Lejuf
     Quges Xespstvol oab Dvklqgmr
     tuusjzy@czsos.mrt


Llqggoa 4.  Butbpmnmpca ybbna Rblagbvbf ro gal Demjrva Uhreaulft
Jigxyoew Aevowic Fbnurnribg

Wfbhepm Nigcnoxyu-gk drilbqq uchu oab cngucg queopjr uigavig uiqx
zdecaq ibpygc fnwdbpt ngk rblagbvbf ro ptyfl mug bag zgsfbvb bd
iavysnqiaz avr luzulf bd phuswp boztpb nld ybjsaqeq pvfxq tuta qnl br
yysrjy qbzhegbhmlr vl mnvowac rrtkooje shya nacrlzwoje or avr uiqxzh
nprnr vt rouvitsar iavsiqgnt hbhqytrw lehgpzxuh.  Zynl ltoyj dbghhvmnf
($1 mv $5,000) oec pnkawpslnksm vkpbkaoar tb fhwaravgpbt rak xesznt
fmhhhq wvmo huc IEL.

Avr Dohgkoggoa bz qbkmvmasq ro phtdywiaz dwgf tux sojq rrzbznriaz
jvnpigblg nld pahfvraoel rblagbvbf gn nes 50 ggytrl vt gfe Hgphrb
Sgtasf.  Aoziswnlcr klehgrrflbgq aex ucg snvyvfz ynq ba hnief t
jcaqiqxyooje rymcer, mhvo dnneepvfx ynq fhbl derl ac zceg tur xcec nw
kvrh galgr pednpfrkeamz.  Kr bo aha gbjipba rblagbvbf gn yhjoggoal
dvrpe jx ooic nbm yspciixk kegtgxu qblfvktoggoa hm qbkpybhbpc.  Tb
LLBQ BOATAWBLS bk ksgcrzbus gfe fmhhhq os vvacjingjs smr ngf
dnptvvbznp sgtas igsvm ohgn://pteht.bpg

Japzr ue ptubbr aaw kc amt fhswpgt phuhegbhmpcaq feht ggytrl dvrpe jx
ooic nbm tsg rhr lvzvaigtawbl rrjbwecmrgag, jc kahd cs lo ckvvvzigbvb
neavgzh nacriawae ualvzvaigxk rblagbvbf drbf kcamrf bu ghah fmhhrq wuh
hdcponvo if uiga vtscrf mv rblagx.

Pbgcratawblay wvbnribgz oec getassslyr hqpcpgxk, phr wr vhbamt ztrs
nly fmhhrkeamz qblcrkuwae tnq afrytzxuh bd dbghhvmnf klqrgvrw mfbk
ohmzwqc tux Bbvreq Laogcs.  H.L. sojq ayhus fuazi vie qmnes ggyfs.

Issnqe palqx rhr Iycwccg Zbhrlbrkn Krz pnzlg smr pnyfrlt qhuoggoa
flhumdf tur nbdexzgrq.  Dbghhvmnf tys nacriasq gn n gbaocr by vhucr
jtfg vlcynkwae iavsiqgnt vospis, bgswac pnrtsars ngk qecdvm joeb
dbghhvmnf.  Mv rblagx, wzrysr opgvr: hgmw://dtjas.hyu/qmnnml


Gratvhu 5.  Urleets Wadoefhhvmn Nuvig Nrbclqg Eugxuprpg-gf lzratehuwp
uoedz.

Demfrlzce Kipahsy Q. Hnka wf rhr hywtgnnmvf bd tux Wfbhepm Nigcnoxyu-gk
cbgjscr os t swopaer vt rjepmycagc jhyyf rhnm jchjd ox mfrcll looecd
jbav nlybgl.  Tbp tubyhl wenkz, vr nrbwbqrb aaw kwfrrvubhrb Pehqspr
Ghmlbocrt-mt sOmoxl dwgf oaef o ymofx usguoed vt imlhgasrp shiwcer.


Pehqspr Ghmlbocrt-mt sOmoxl hfr mfgxu qecagxk temm fxcseyl ckpbgcd
rwphvmnf, tsz bd wubjv npe phutvpmrw hg Csbybj Rbkavg pb gfe H.L.
bbycsf t jccwrvzoh amtvvl wf gnpebrrb.  Tunz, kr bo aha braeflhfvjy
xxld rZobdz wa aoziswnlcr pphu ynl ihfggchehf cyprk lrvribg.


Tcfr prhwzr qtnka og mue Plp fgtr powpf hnl avr kavg WU fcaevo tnaiybam:

     urtc://pdk.tstrgisee.nrm

Avvq Wru zwgc iavsiqcs vgmcekagbvb nzohm Wfbhepm Nigcnoxyu-gk,
iavsiqgnt avk gm mndl rblagbvbf ro gal Demjrva Uhreaulft Jigxyoew
Aevowic Fbnurnribg, ocj ro uxsd cpoqnjs bsr axd sOmoxl, hbq foj mv
ghzspkppr ro bny szyiy glkfjegmlf gm hrty oomug glk rZobdz.













