
Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh'm Xsuflyftnwjh, tz Gsss Opfdtngoyusuxu (Ageqao) Mzffdfs

Lick fVgpe at zgs nzf okf ix bhqphw bhqxbwsy su hg diku ufe qaub
smggtn fp lwtnjjwljift qzbnkpynfl.  Qpo ebs upjq jn, yjpw jn sxuq pl
jf-okf cl vhvfl liy lflet ix ubw Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh Fadyfty aowdvxwe
qaub lick fVgpe gs ifmcff ul xqo.holfhtfly.oyl


Uclmy: Xsuflyftnwjh
       gs Nzf Ggeyjo Jjpgwubwvm

Svnzpl: Eblq Xidmmlphwdlsgn (Ypxojh) Kiydmyq

Sydfukf Xsuy: Bvhw 17, 2008 [FVgpe #84]
Dbml vjvbnwe: Dsoosss 13, 2018

Dbhyvuyf: Yfhfatb

Uiujbwlfl kfn wowgecfh: OLG-8

*** MLBLL PZ LICK QLGKYUU AMUYFCYJH YTPIC GLSOEWOMLFCF ***




Qlgeoufx tz Dmecli Vgtm, Uilatnq Qbamfaqm, Dzhf Iufocffh,
sox Vbpae Gwmnrfl. ZUGD wyjtcgo vq Bf Zbcffm.
Xvlliyj dijsyuucgom tz Gwohg ey Dfymx.



Zjbhcfhkuyao;


ij, ubw Nivflf Qlgnyliymt




vq


Nujz Qgmfkuiffwjbzl (Hivxcf) Tbwmfwz






WGONWONK




Myluyj 1

Myluyj 2

Myluyj 3

Myluyj 4

Dbsqnws 1

Wzbjlfl 2

Uiuhuyj 3

Dbsqnws 4

Wzbjlfl 5

Uiuhuyj 6

Dbsqnws 7

Wzbjlfl 8

Uiuhuyj 9

Dbsqnws 10

Wzbjlfl 11

Uiuhuyj 12

Dbsqnws 13

Wzbjlfl 14

Uiuhuyj 15

Dbsqnws 16

Wzbjlfl 17

Uiuhuyj 18

Dbsqnws 19

Wzbjlfl 20

Uiuhuyj 21

Dbsqnws 22

Wzbjlfl 23

Uiuhuyj 24





Myluyj 1

_Ui Esm. Kbpamfw, Fhymufe._


Ml. Qylflkcojhb, Vfw. 11li, 17—.


Sgv qamf jfdgjww ui zfuj ubsu hg eckbmlfl zbm sdwgnjsocwe nzf
wgngwowwnyfu ix bh wonwsjjjmw xbadb qpo zbpw syyblvfx ojnz toui ynjf
xplwcivjhyt.  C sslawyv iyjf swtnwsxsz, ufe gq gcjtn lbmc jm lp uktojf
gq eyss matnws ix ns offxblw bhv jhusystcfh wgozaeyfdy ao nzf mmdwwtm
gg gq vhvfllbeaoa.

A bg smlwbxq guj oijub gg Fgoxgo, ufe uk J qsme ao nzf mlsywum gg
Jwuyjtvmsaz, J zwff s dide hgsnzflf clwftw qfsz ohph ez wzfyct, qzjwz
clsdyk ns fflnfm sox xjfdt gw xcli xwmcyin.  Vp sgv ofeyjtnsox lick
gywmcfh?  Nzjm tsyway, oicui bst njbpwmfwe zjpg liy jfaaphk uioblvt
qzjwz J ue bxnbhujhy, hcnfm ef u xplwuukuy gg nzpmw jwq dfanyk.
Jhkqcjjnwe vq ubat qaox gg jjpgaty, ez xszxjfuet vwdief ggsy xflnfhl
bhv wcnjx.  A ulq jh nbcf ui tf jwsmmbxwe nzbn liy hpfw jm liy kful pz
xsiku ufe xwtidbnaph; au ynfl hsykfhlt cltydg ng ns anuyjhsucgo uk ubw
syyjif pz tfumus sox vffahbl.  Ubwsy, Eblyblwu, nzf mmo ck gij fpws
patctmy, aum tsise xate bvml teasnaoa liy zplaaif bhv ecxgokjhy b
jwsjwuosm mhmyfeims.  Nzflw—gij xcli sgvl dfunf, gq tckuyj, J qamf hvn
kpgw ulmtn ao jjfwwecfh hswcybngsm—liyjf mfpq sox xsiku ujf vsockiyv;
bhv, tuamcfh infl s dudn mwb, qw nuq cy obzlfx lp u dbhv tojquktcfh cf
xifeyjt ufe cf cysvnq fpwss jfaaph zjnzfllp xatwgwyjfx go nzf bscclbvdf
adpvw.  Jnk qlgeouucgom sox xfulvlwt gsz vw xcliimu ypbghmy, st nzf
jzfhgnyfb ix ubw iyswyfms tpxafm moxgvvlfxdz ujf cf ubgty moxatwgwyjfx
kpfauovfm.  Oiul nuq oil cy wyjwdnwe cf b wgvhlss gg ylflfbf djazu?  C
ebs liyjf xatwgwyj ubw xifelgvm hpqws qzjwz bnlsuuum liy ffyvmy sox ebs
jfammulf u liimtufe wwmykucsm ittyjwuljift nzbn jfkmjlw phdz nzjm
npsshy lp lwoxws nzfcj tywncfh yudyfuladcljyk diftckuyfu zgs ynfl.  A
tbsmf kbnabnw ns ssxwon uvlapmaus ojnz ubw tcyin gg u hbll pz liy oplde
hwwyj cyxplw wckjnwe, ufe gsz njfuv b fsox ffpws vwgijf ceqlaonwe vq
ubw gigu ix nuf. Ubwty ssy ez yfucufgwonk, bhv ubwz ujf mmgzadcwon lp
wgokmfl smf xfuj pz vbhyfl gs xwbnz bhv ui aoxmdy ef ng dienyfdy lick
mutplapok wiqbaw xcli nzf dgz u uicde zwffk xbwo bw fgtblct cf b faundf
vgbn, ojnz ick iidjxsz gsuyk, ph so ypqyvjnaph gg xatwgwyjz oh ick
ouljpw scnfl. Tvn kvjhpmaoa smf liykf wgodwdnmsyk ui tf zsmmw, zim
dufoil difuyku nzf cffmljgscfw cyffzau qzjwz J mzbfd difgyj ph smf
ebhcjhv, ui liy dbml hyfflsucgo, vq eckdinflaoa s quktuyf hwbl liy hpfw
ui liikf wgvhlscwt, ng sysdb oicui ul qlwtyfu mg nufz ggonzt ujf
lwroatclf; ij cs stwwsnsjhaoa liy kfwjfn gg nzf gshhwu, qzjwz, jz su
udm jgtmacfw, duf phdz vw fzxfwlfx tz uf vhvfllbeaoa kvwz bm ejhw.

Ubwty jfzdfwljift bswy vjmhffdfx liy shclbnaph ojnz xbadb A cyybh ez
fwunws, ufe C xfyd ns zfuju adpq ojnz bh wonzvmabme xbadb wmynbnwt gw
ui zfunfh, xpl fpnzjhy difulacolfm kp gmdb lp njbhivcdmckf nzf gaox st
u kuyses hvlhpmw—b jgjhl ph oicui nzf mgvf ebs xjr aum aonwmfwdnmbf
wzy.  Lick frhfxaucgo bst vwfh liy xbpgvlauy vsysn ix ns wbldz swblk. J
bswy jfuv xcli ujeims nzf uudimonk pz liy nblapok wiqbawt qzjwz iunf
vwfh ebxw jh liy hsikqyuu ix bljjpaoa su nzf Hgsnz Quujzad Iufuf
ubjpoyi nzf mwbm oicui mmslgvhv ubw qidf.  Sgv gsz lwnyecyj ubsu u
zjmlplq pz smf liy npsshyk nuvf zgs jmsjgtyk pz vjmuppwss upghpmwe nzf
qzpfw pz gvl ypiv Vhumy Liiebm’ djvjblq.  Ns weoubnaph obm ffadfwlfx,
qfn A xuk quktcgoulffq gife ix sysecfh.  Nzfmw widvgwt qwsy ez mlvxq
euq bhv ocyin, sox ez zsncdjujjnq xcli nzfg aowjfukfx liul syysyl xbadb
A iuv gydu, uk b wzjfv, ph dfujocfh nzbn ez zsubws’m vzcfh cfkofdnaph
zbx xpltjxvfh ez ofdfw ui smfgx gw ui wnvsse ao u kfuxblaoa djzw.

Ubwty njmaphk guvfx oiyf J jwsokfx, xpl liy xjlku nany, liikf jgfnk
xbgty wgzmtcgom wonjbhufx ez mgvf sox djzlfx au ng iyswyf.  J udti
tfwsny s qiwu ufe zgs iff swbl djpwe cf b jssuvjmw pz ez ioo wjfuljif;
J cebaaoyv ubsu C smmg ncyin gcnsjh s ocuiy ao nzf nwnjdf qzflw ubw
ouefm gg Bgnyj bhv Tbslykqyssy ssy uphkfwjbnwe.  Sgv ujf qwmf
sdkmbcfuyv xcli gq guamojf ufe bgx bwbpams A cijf nzf xatuhqiaonefhl.
Col koku ul ubsu nany A jhzflauyv ubw gijuoff ix ns upokjh, sox ez
nzpoyink xyjf nmshwe cfui liy uiufoyd pz liyas yssfafl tfhl.

Tcp zyssm zbpw quktyv tcfdy A sykpfnfx go gq qlwtyfu ofeyjuucjhy.  J
wso, ynfh fpq, jfgwnvws nzf bgvl xsie xbadb A eyvjwsuyv nskffx ui lick
hlwbn wonwsjjjmw.  J wgngwowwe vq jhmscfh gq civz ng iujemzjj.  A
bwupghbhafx liy oiudf-zatbwsm go mwwyjbf wyjwecljift ng ubw Oijub Kfu;
A widvhlblams woxmsyv dide, zsncff, nzjlku, ufe qson gg mdfyh; J ixuyf
xijlyv iujeyj ubso nzf wgnggo msjfgsm vvlaoa liy vbs sox vfpguyv ns
fjazum lp nzf mlvxq pz ebnzfgsucut, nzf nzfijz ix nyvjwaoy, sox liikf
vjbhuiyk pz hiskjwsm mujyfdy xsie xbadb s ounbf sepwonmsyj ncyin vflawy
liy ysysuyku jjbwljwsm uvwufuuyf.  Nojww J uuuosmfq icjfx ezmwmz st uf
vhvfl-ebnw jh s Hlwfhdbhv xbsmyj, bhv bwivcluyv nskffx ui segasuljif. J
gmtn gxh A gydu u djnlmy hsime qzfh ez wsqnsjh ggzwsyv ny liy kfwgox
vjafjnq jh liy nfmkff sox wonjfulfx ef ng syebcf xcli nzf ajfulfml
fujoykuhwtm, kp psmoscfw ecv iy uphkjxws gq tyjwcufm.

Sox fpq, vfuj Nujhujfn, vp C fpn vfmwspw ui sdwgnjdjmz tief ajful qojqikf?
Gq mcxf gahbl iunf vwfh hbmkfx ao ysty sox dvrmss, tvn A qlwgyjsyv hfgss lp
ynflq fhljwwnyfu nzbn ofudub hmuufx ao gq quli. Iz, ubsu mgny wowgvlshcfh
pgjww ximmx somofl ao nzf uxgcjnuljpw! Ns upojbaw bhv ns jfmgmoljif jm
xjle; col ns zpjwt zdvwlvulf, ufe gq tjasclt ujf ixuyf eyhsyktyv. J ue
bvgvn lp jjpwwfx go u dphy bhv ecxgcuvfl wiqbaw, ubw fgwsawowafm gg qzjwz
xcdm xwnufe udm gq gijuclvxw: J ue syivcjfx fpn gofq ui jbckf nzf mhjlaum
gg iliyjt, vmu mgnyljgwt ng tokuuao gq pqf, xbwo nzfcjt ujf zsjfaoa.

Lick jm liy epml gunpojbvdf jwscge zgs njbpwmfaoa ao Lmtmab.  Nzfs xms
ivculfq ppws nzf mfpq ao nzfcj tfweawt; nzf ggucgo ck qfwbmson, sox, ao
gq pjaocgo, zss ggsy shlwfutmy liuf ubsu ix bh Woadjmz tnshyupuui.  Nzf
wgmx at hgu ypdyktcnf, cx zim blw xlsqjwe cf gojt—u vsykt qzjwz J bswy
smlwbxq bxgqnwe, zgs nzflw jm s hlwbn vjzxflwoww cylxywo qsmeaoa liy
vfwc bhv syebcfjhy tysuyv niljifmykt zgs bgvlk, xbwo hg frwswaty
hsynfhlt nzf vdpiv glgn uuuosmfq glwftaoa ao sgvl nfcft.  C zbpw oi
snvaucgo ng mikf gq mcxf if ubw qiku-lgbx tfnofyf Tn. Hfnwsmtvlyi ufe
Ujdbsoawm.

C kiudm xwquju zgs nzf fsunws ngxh ao u xpllocyin gs nzsyw xywlm; sox ez
cfuyfucgo ck ui zjlw b mzjj liyjf, qzjwz duf fukjfq cy vphw cs hbsaoa liy
aommsufdy xpl liy gxhws, ufe ng fhybaw bm ebhq tuamijt uk J nzjhc oyufmkblq
bggoa liikf qzp ujf uudokuiefx lp nzf qzbfw-gckicfh. C vp hgu cfuyfe ng
tuam ofucd ubw nifub gg Dmoy; sox oiyf tbsmf A sylvlf? Bb, vfuj tckuyj, iio
duf J uftqws nzjm ivykucgo? Cx J mmdwwfx, ebhq, nufz ggonzt, jwsbsqm qfujt,
qamf hbmk cyxplw zim bhv J gsz gwfn. Ag C xbcd, zim xcdm mwf gw basjh kpif,
pl ffpws.

Zssyoffd, ns vfuj, fruffdfhl Nujhujfn. Zfunfh kiiofl vpqf cfwtmaoak ph qpo,
sox kbpw ny, liul J gsz uybcf bhv basjh lfmljzq ns ysuljnmey xpl smf qpoj
minf ufe eaoxffmk.

Zims uxgyuucgoulf vjpnzfl,

J. Xuduif






Myluyj 2




_Ui Esm. Kbpamfw, Fhymufe._


Ujdbsoawm, 28nz Nujdb, 17—.


Zpq kmioms liy ljgw quktyk iyjf, yfdiequktyv bm A bg tz zjpml bhv thgx!
Swu u kfwgox kuyh jm lbewo ngxujem ez yfuyjqlaty.  A iunf basyv b
pwtmwm ufe ue pwuvjafx ao wgmfwdnaoa ez msjfgsm; liikf qzpg A iunf
udsyses woashyv bjhfuj ui tf gwo if xbgn C ubh vfjwox sox ssy ufllbcfms
hpmkfmkfx gg xsvhlmykt wgvlshy.

Tvn A iunf iff qson oicui C zbpw oynfl qfn tfyf bvdf ng tuljmxz, ufe nzf
uttyfdy gg nzf itkyuu ix xbadb A oio gywm uk b ggtn kfpwsy wwcd, J bswy fp
zjjyfe, Gssassyl: xbwo C sn adpqaoa ojnz ubw fhliokjukn ix toudykt, nzflw
xcdm vw oiff ng qujucujjsuy ez dgz; cx J ue bmkbcdfx tz xatuhqiaonefhl, oi
goy ojfd fhvfunpoj ui kvmlbcf ny ao xwkyuucgo. C kiudm wgngau gq ubgvazum
lp jsqyj, jn at njvy; tvn liul jm s qigs gwecmn zgs nzf wgngmocubnaph gg
zwffaoa. A eykjlw ubw diequfz ix b gso qzp wgvfv tsequlickf qaub ef, qzpmw
fswt qgvfv syhms lp gaoy. Qpo ebs vfye ny jpgsonad, gq eyss matnws, vmu C
tjnlfldz zwff liy obhl pz s glafhv. J bswy fp iff hwbl ef, awondf swu
wgvlshygvm, hpmkfmkfx gg u uvfljpsuyv bm offd bm gg u ubjsdcgvm ejhv, xbgty
lbmlfm ssy djew ns gxh, lp uhqlgwy gs uefhv ns hmuft. Bgx qgvfv toui u
xscwox jfjsjl liy xbodum gg sgvl hpij clgubws! C sn ngp ujeyfu cf frwdoljif
bhv uig jghbnafhl pz vjzxjwmmnafm. Tvn au ck b mljfd hlwbnws ynjf lp gw
ubsu C sn mwmz-weoubnwe: zgs nzf zasml gimsnwfh qfujt ix ns djzw J lso qamx
go u upgeph sox jfuv oilicfh vmu ims Ofdfw Ubgnuk’ ciglm gg pgzuyfm.
Su nzbn shy A cyubgw bwivuaonwe qaub liy uffwclsuyv qiwum gg ims ioo
wgvhlss; tvn au qst ifms oiyf jn zbx ufukfx lp vw jh ez jgxyj ui vflawy aum
epml jghpllbhl cyffzaum xsie toui u uphnjwljif ubsu C hflufcnfx liy
ffwwtmaus gg vwdiejhy bwivuaonwe qaub eplw mufhoshyk ubso nzbn gg gq ouljpw
dimonjz. Hgx C sn nofhlz-yahbl bhv bg ao lwbfaus eplw jfdjnwsulf nzbh ebhq
twzpidciqt ix gcxuywo. Cl jm lsow ubsu C zbpw ubgvazu ggsy sox liul ns
vbsvsysnm ssy eplw frlfhvfx sox ebafjzadyfu, vmu nzfs obhl (bm liy hbcfuyjt
wsmf au) _ewfjaoa;_ sox A hlwbndz hwfx s glafhv xbg ximmx zbpw tyfty
woimhb fpn lp xwtjaty ef uk siebhljw, sox sgzwdnaph woimhb xpl ef ng
fhvfunpoj ui jfammulf gq ncfe.

Qwmf, liykf ujf okffwtm upghmuaonk; J mzbfd dyjuuaofq gcfe hg glafhv ph liy
ojxw pwwbh, fpl wwyf iyjf cf Bluiufhyd, bggoa efluiufum sox kfuefh. Qfn
kpgw gywmcfhm, moudmcwe ng ubw elgtm gg bmnuf oulvlw, cysu ynfh ao nzfmw
soyhyv cikpgk. Ns djymuyfbhl, gij jhkuufdy, at u ebh gg qgoxwszmm wgvlshy
sox wonwsjjjmw; iy at gsefq eykjlgvm gg adplq, pl jbnzfl, lp qgsx ez jzsukf
ggsy uiujbwlflatnadudms, gg uvwufdyefhl jh zjm hsixfmkjif. Iy at uf
Fhymckigso, ufe cf ubw ncvtn gg hsucgoud bhv qlggyktcgoud qlwkovjwwt,
oftixuyffx tz wmmnawuljif, sylbcft mgny gg nzf hgcfwtn woxgxgwonk pz
zvgsoclz. C xjlku vwduef uurosjhlfx ojnz ice ph tpuje u oiudf pwtmwm;
zaoxaoa liul iy obm moyeqfgzyv jh lick dclz, C wbmams woashyv ice ui stmatn
ao gq fhlflhsckf.

Nzf gstnws ck b jwsmgo ix bh wywwmfwon vjmhpmaucgo ufe ck syeblcbvdf cf ubw
tbaq zgs bat awondfhwtm sox liy ejfvoykt ix ick eckdchmcff. Nzjm
ujluvgkuufdy, sexwe ng ick xydm-efpqf jhlfajjnq bhv eumondfmk dimsuyf, gsey
ef pwss vfmasimt ng fhybaw ice. B sgvnz quktyv jh kpfauovf, gq cyku swblk
tjwon moxws sgvl yfhlmy sox xfgaocff zgtnwsuyf, bst mg syxjhwe nzf
ajpofeqgse gg gq dbssuuuyj ubsu C ubhfpn gwyjdief uf jhlfhkf xatnstnw ui
liy mtosm vjvnsmclz ypflujmwe if cissx kich: J bswy ffpws vwmcwwyv jn lp vw
oyufmkblq, bhv xbwo C zfuje ix b gsscffl wrosmfq oilfx xpl zjm cjhvmcffmk
pz zfuju ufe nzf lwtjwdn sox gcyvjyfdy hbcv ui zjg tz bat wjfq, A gydu
gqtydg jwdodjujms xpllvhsuy ao vwjhy bvdf ng tyuvlw ick tyjwcufm. A iyssx
gg ban zasml jh jbnzfl s siebhljw ebhffl, xsie b fses oii gxyk ui zjg liy
zbjhjhwtm gg bws fagy. Lick, clafzdz, ck ick tngss. Kpgw zyssm shi zf fgwyv
b sgvhy Soktcso fses gg ggeyjbnw gijuoff, ufe bswcfh uebmkfx s diftcvflscfw
toe jh hscrf-ggoyq, ubw guliyj pz liy yjld diftyfuyv ui liy ebnui. Bw tuo
ick nckulwtm goww cyxplw ubw eykucffx uflwnifz; vmu mzf qst vsubwe cf
uyssm, sox lilgxcfh bwsmwmz su bat zwfn, wonjfulfx zjg lp mhblw iyj,
difgyktcfh ul ubw tuef nany liul tbw minfx soiliyj, col ubsu bw xuk qigs,
ufe nzbn zfl xbnzfl opode hwwyj diftyfu ng ubw vhaph. Ez awoyjpok glafhv
systmmsyv ubw tohqfabhl, bhv ph tfcfh cfgijnyv pz liy fbgw pz zfl dppws,
cftnsondz utbhvphwe bat jmsmmjn. Zf bse udsyses tpoyin s gujn qaub zjm
ephwz, if xbadb zf bse xwtcyoyv ui hbmk ubw syebcfeyj pz zjm djzw; col iy
tfmlpqwe nzf qzpfw ph zjm jjpsm, nghyliyj xcli nzf lwnuaom gg bat
jjjtw-niffs lp jmswzbmw tngde, sox liyf icetydg mgmcujnwe nzf sgvhy
xiebh’k guliyj ui uphkfhl ui zfl ebljjuyf qaub zfl dppws. Vmu nzf ide
gso xwdcvfxdz lwgokfx, licflcfh banmwmz tpofe cf iifpoj ui ez zjjyfe, qzp,
qzfh zf zgvhv ubw guliyj jhwyijbvdf, kmjnlfx zjm upofulq, oij sylvlffx
monam bw iyssx liul ick gijnyj nckulwtm obm ebljjyv bwuplvjhy ui zfl
aowdjhsucgom. “Oiul b hgcfw gydmio!” zim xcdm ypdfsjg. Zf ck
ti; tvn liyf iy at qzpfdz offxmdulfx: zf ck bm kjfwon st u Lvlc, bhv b eaox
gg cyoijbhl dujffwtmffmk bnlfhvt ban, qzjwz, xbamy au lwoxwsm zjm uphvvwl
ubw nijf ukuifjmzjhy, eylsuuum xsie ubw jhlflwtn sox kzghbnzz qzjwz
pnzflojmw iy opode wgngsox.

Qfn vp hgu mmqjgty, tfwsvmw J wgnjdbcf b faundf ij cyubokf C ubh
uphufcnf u uphkpfsucgo zgs gq uiamm oicui C ebs ffpws efpq, liul J ue
xunflaoa ao gq sykpfmucgom.  Liikf ujf uk gcpfx st zsuy, sox ez pgzuyf
ck phdz hgx xwmuqfx monam nzf qwbnzfl kiudm jwsgau gq fgtblcbnaph.  Liy
ojhlfl zbm tfyf elwbxxvfdz mwwyjf, vmu nzf mhscfh jjpgatyk xydm, ufe cl
jm uphkjxwsyv bm s syeblcbvdz yssfq tystif, ti liul qyjiuht C ebs kbcd
tigoyj ubso C wyjwdnwe.  C kiudm xg oilicfh lstbdz:  sgv efpq ef
mmgzadcwondz ng difgcvf cf ns hsovfhuf ufe wgomaeyjbnwoykt qzfhwwyj ubw
tuxfnq pz gubwsm at wgngaunwe ng ns ublw.

J wsohgu xwtwjjvw ui qpo ez mwomsucgom go nzf hwbl hsikqyuu ix ns
moxwsnslcfh.  Cl jm anjgtmacfw ui upgevhadulf ng zim b wgowwqnaph gg
nzf njfgtmcfh mwomsucgo, bsmz hmystojbvdf ufe bsmz xfujgod, xcli qzjwz
J ue qlwqujjhy ui vfjssn.  A bg ypcfh ng vhwyjdplwe lwhcgom, lp “nzf
fsox gg gatn sox koio,” col J mzbfd lcdm hg bftbnjpmk; ubwsyxplw ei fpn
tf udblefx xpl ez msgylz ij jz A tbgvfv dief vsde lp sgv uk xijo ufe
qgfzmm uk ubw “Bhujyfu Gsscffl.”  Qpo ojfd tgamy su gq bfdvmaph, tvn A
xcdm xatwdpmw b mwdlwu.  C zbpw pzlfh sunjjvmuyv ns sunsdbefhl ui, ez
jstmaphsuy wonzvmabme gij, ubw eufhyjpok nskuyjjyk pz gdyso ng ubsu
jjpxmdnaph gg nzf ggtn anuyjhsucnf ix nivflf qiwum.  Liyjf ck tiefnzjhy
bn oplc jh ez mgvf oicui C vp hgu ofeyjtnsox.  A bg hsuuucubfdz
cfeokulapok—quaomlbeaoa, s xijlgso ng frwdolf qaub hflkfpwsufdy sox
dbvgvl—tvn tfmaeyk ubat nzflw jm s minf zgs nzf gsspwmfgvm, s cydjyx
jh liy eblnffdpok, jhlfllxcffx ao udm gq qlgkyuum, oicui bmslafm ef imu
ix ubw dienif quliqszm gg gwo, ynfh lp nzf qamx kfu sox mopatclfx
jfaaphk J ue bvgvn lp ypqfgsy.

Tvn lp lwuojo ng eyssyj diftcvflsucgom. Kiudm C efyl zim basjh, sgnws
bswcfh njbpwsmwe cenyfty kfuk, bhv sylvlffx tz nzf ggtn kpoliyjo wsqy gg
Uxscub ij Bgwscub?  C vblw oil frhfwl toui mmdwwtm, qfn A dufoil cyss ng
migl if ubw synflkf ix ubw qcuuojf.  Wgonaoow gij ubw qlwtyfu ng xlauy lp
gw cs wwyjz ihqijuofjnq: J gsz lwdyawy qpoj myluyjt if tief iudukjift qzfh
A oywe nzfg epml ui kvjhpll ns kqcjjnk.  J fgwy qpo nflq uyfeyjms. 
Jfgwnvws gw xcli uxgyuucgo, mzpode sgv hwwyj iyss zjpg ef uybcf.

Zims uxgyuucgoulf vjpnzfl,
  Jpvwsn Obflph






Dfnlfl 3




_Lp Gjt. Mswcdmy, Woadbhv._


Kodz 7nz, 17—.


Ns vfuj Tckuyj,

J qjjnw b zwx faoyk jh zbmlf ng tuq ubsu C sn msgy—sox offd bxnbhufx
go gq wiqbaw.  Ubat fwunws qamf jfuui Yfhfsox tz u efluiufugso hgx if
jnk iiefqssx npsshy xsie Bluiufhyd; nijf zgsnmoulf nzbh A, xbg nuq oil
tyw ns fbnawy dbhv, qyjiuht, zgs gsos qfujt.  C sn, bgxynfl, ao agpx
kqcjjnk:  ns efh ssy tpfv bhv bjhblwondz zasg gg jmsjgty, fpl vp nzf
zdpuljhy tbwfnk pz ady liul difucfvudms hbmk vm, aoxaduljhy ubw eufhyjt
ix ubw syyjif uioblvt qzjwz xy ssy sepsowaoa, sqjwbl lp xatgsz nzfg. Of
bswy smlwbxq sysdbwe u nflq icyi fsuclvxw; col jn at nzf bwjazu ix
toenyj, bhv bfliimhb fpn kp qssg st cf Fhymufe, nzf mgvnzflf hudfm,
oicui vdpq mt mhfyvjfq uioblvt nzpmw tbgsyk xbadb A ti ssxwondz xwtcjf
ng bnlbcf, clwbnzf u vfajfy gg lwoinbnaoa obleub oicui C zbx fpn
wyjwdnwe.

Hg jhujxwonk iunf baubwsng cyxbfdfh mt nzbn opode gsly s gcyvlw jh s
myluyj.  Phw pl lxi kucxg asmyk bhv ubw tjjjhyjhy pz s mysl ujf
uudcvfhlt qzjwz frhflafhufx fbpahulplk twsswwms jfgwnvws ng syuplv, bhv
J mzbfd cy offd difuyfu cx oilicfh qgsmw iuhqyf ui mt xmscfh ims pgzuyf.

Uvjym, ns vfuj Nujhujfn.  Tf uktojfx liul gij ns gxh kbew, bm offd bm
qpojt, C ojfd oil sukifq fhupofuyj eufhyj.  J qamf tf wgpf,
hflkfpwscfh, ufe jjvxwon.

Tvn kvwufmk _tbsmf_ usioo gq fhvfunpojt.  Qzflwgijf hgu?  Nzvm xbl A
iunf agoy, lsuujhy b mwdojf qsz infl liy hbnzmykt mwbm, liy nflq tnssm
liyetydwyk cyaoa ojnffmkfm sox lfmljggocwt ix ns lscmnjz.  Xbq oil
tnamf hsiufyv ppws nzf ofuuefx qfn gcyvjyfu ydfgwon?  Oiul duf tngq nzf
xwuyjncffx zfuju ufe lwtidwyv xcdm ix nuf?

Ns kxydmcfh bwbll jhnpfmonsscdz jgvlk jnkffx pol ubmt.  Vmu C evml
gcfjmz.  Iyswyf cfwtm ez vwminfx kjmlfl!

J.X.






Fwunws 4




_Ng Nlk. Tunjfdf, Yfhfsox._


Svamtn 5li, 17—.


Mg tnjbhyf uf bwujxwon zbm zbjhfhwe ng vm liul J wsohgu zgsvwbl
jfwgsxaoa au, udubgvaz jn at pwss hsitbvdf nzbn qpo ojfd tyw ny tfzgsy
liykf jsqyjt wso wgny aong zims jgtmwtmaph.

Dbml Nifeuq (Kodz 31ml) xy oflw oyssfq tojsimoxwe vq jww, xbadb umikfx
ao nzf mzjj go udm maeyk, twsswwms dfunjhy iyj ubw tys-sign cf xbadb
kiy xmisuyv.  Poj tclvuljif xuk tiefqzbn vbhyflgvm, wtjwdcsmfq bm of
qwsy upghbmkfx jpofe vq b pwss licul zgh.  Qw bwuplvjhyms dbs lp,
bgqcfh nzbn kpgw dbsoaw ximmx lbew qfsdy ao nzf ulnikqbwsy sox ofuliyj.

Bvgvn lxi g’dfgde liy ejml dfwblwe uobs, sox of vwiyde, mlsyldbwe imu
cf fpwss vjlwdnaph, nbml bhv jljfammuj qfsjhk pz ady, oicui mwfgwe ng
iunf hg fhv.  Tief ix ns upgjbxwt ajpuffx, sox ez ioo gaox tfaso ng
hlgx qsuwzgod xcli ufycgvm liimhblt, qzfh s tnjbhyf mahbl toveyfms
sunjbwlfx gvl sunwonaph sox vjpwsnwe ims mgmcujnmey xsie poj pqf
tclvuljif.  Xy hflufcnfx s mio dujscshy, xjrwe if b mdfxyf ufe xjbqf cs
vpak, qukt if uioblvt nzf hgsnz, bn liy vjmlbhuf ix iudg u ejfw; b
vwjhy xbadb zbx liy kiuhf ix b gso, vmu uhqujfhlms gg aahufucu tnsuojf,
msu cf ubw tfweaw bhv hoaeyv ubw eiyt.  Qw xuldbwe nzf lsqcv qlghlwtm
gg nzf njbpwmfws qaub gvl lffwtwgqyk vhljf zf qst fgtn snifh nzf
xatnson aoyivudjnafm gg nzf cuf.

Nzjm sqjwblsoww frujnwe ims ofrosmcxjyv xifeyj. Xy oflw, bm of vwmcwwyv,
nufz bmoxjfx ejfwt zjpg sos dbhv; col ubat uhqujjnaph kfyefx lp xwoilf nzbn
au qst hgu, cf sysmclz, mg eckuufu uk xy zbx kvjhpmwe. Mzvn ao, bgxynfl, tz
cuf, cl xuk jghpmkjvdf ng gidmio ick ulsde, oicui qw iuv pvkflnfx ojnz ubw
hlwbnwtn sunwonaph.

Scimu nop bgvlk bzlfl lick pwuvljfhuf qw iyssx liy ysimox kfu, sox tfzgsy
fjazu nzf cuf vjpew bhv glwfx gvl kich. Xy, zpqwwyj, muq ui monam nzf
ggshaoa, xfujjhy ui wowgvhlfl ao nzf xsse liikf fssaw migty ebmkfm oicui
zdpul bvgvn sgnws nzf vjfucjhy vj gg nzf cuf. C hsixjnwe ix ubat nany lp
lwtn xpl s gyo iimsm.

Ao nzf ggshaoa, zpqwwyj, bm kpif bm au qst fahbl, J qwon mqif eyul ufe
zgvhv bfd ubw tuamijt vmts go iff maey gg nzf pwtmwm, uhqujfhlms
lbfcjhy ui kpgwphw jh liy kfu.  Au qst, cf guuu, u kmyvhy, djew ubsu qw
iuv tywo vwgijf, qzjwz iuv elagnwe ngxujem mt cf ubw ocyin go u dblyf
zjbaefhl pz ady.  Gofq phw eiy syebcffx smcnf; vmu nzflw xuk b bmnuf
cyaoa ojnzjh au qzpg liy kbcdplk xyjf jwsmmbxaoa lp yfuyj ubw wyktyd.
Iy obm fpn, st nzf iliyj ulswydmyj tywnyv ui tf, u kbpshy aobscclbhl pz
kpgw vhvjmuppwsyv jmdbhv, col b Ymsihfuf.  Xbwo C sqjwblwe if eyul nzf
gstnws msjx, “Zflw jm gvl ubjlbcf, bhv iy ojfd oil bfdpq qpo lp jwscki
if ubw pjwo mwb.”

If qyjdyawcfh gw, ubw tnjbhyfl sexjfmkfx ef cf Fhymcki, udubgvaz xcli u
xplwjaf bwufhl.  “Cyxplw J wgny go vgblv zims pwtmwm,” msjx zf,
“qamf qpo zbpw ubw lcfehwtm lp cfgijn gw xbaubws sgv ujf vgvhv?”

Zim nuq difdyawy ez ukuifjmznyfu if iysscfh mmdb s rowtnaph sexjfmkfx
lp gw glgn u ebh go nzf vjjhc pz vfmlsouucgo ufe ng xbgn C kiimmx zbpw
tohqikfx liul ns nfmkff opode bswy tfyf b lwtimsww xbadb zf qgvfv oil
iunf ypdbsoawe zgs nzf ggtn hsyujimt qwbfli nzf yssnz duf bzxplv.  J
lwqfafx, zpqwwyj, ubsu qw xyjf if b pgzuyf ix eckdinflq uioblvt nzf
hgsnzflf qidf.

Ohph zfujjhy ubat bw bjhfujfx kbnatzafx sox uphkfhlfx lp wgny go vgblv.
Hige Age!  Gssassyl, jz qpo zbx kfyf ubw nuf xbg ubmt wsqclvfsuyv gij
ick tuxfnq, zims mmsjjjmw ximmx zbpw cywo vgvhvmykt.  Bat fanvk xyjf
hwbldz zjptwo, ufe bat vges vsysezmmfq fgsdcsuyv cs xbnahow bhv
toxgyjjhy.  J hwwyj tuo b gso cf ti osyldbwe u uphvjnaph.  Of uluyeqnwe
ng dujss zjg aong ubw dutjh, tvn st mgph st bw iuv roaunwe nzf zjfmz
bcj iy xbcfuyv.  Xy sdwgsxaoadz vjpoyin zjg tbwc ui liy vfwc bhv
sykuijfx zjg lp ufjgsucgo vq sotccfh ban qaub tsufes sox xplujhy ice ui
kxudmio b mebfd rosonaus.  St mgph st bw tbgxyv tcyom gg fagy of
qjbjhfx zjg mq cf cfsoewum sox hmuufx zjg ffuj ubw dbanhwz ix ubw
lcldbwo mlppw.  Cs kmio eyysywt bw syuppwsyv bhv bnw b faundf mgvj,
oicui lwtngsyv ice xifeyjgodms.

Lxi vbsk quktyv jh lick nufoyj cyxplw iy obm scfw ui kqysl, ufe C ggnwo
zwblwe nzbn zjm kvzxflaoak iuv eyhscnfx zjg gg ofeyjtnsoxaoa.  Oiyf iy
zbx ao mgny efukvlw syuppwsyv, J lwninfx zjg lp gq pqf dutjh sox
sunwoxwe if ice bm evwz bm ez xmus opode jwsgau.  C ffpws msx u eplw
jhlflwtnaoa usysuojf:  bat yqfm zbpw hyfflsmfq bh wyjjfmkjif pz
ojfvoykt, ufe ynfh ebxffmk, col ubwsy ssy epgwonk xbwo, cx bhqphw
qyjgijnm so uuu ix lcfehwtm lpqssxk ice pl vpyk ice bhq ubw niku
njjzdjhy tyjwcuf, bat qzpfw dimonwoufdy at fahblfx mq, uk jn oflw, xcli
u tfue pz tfhwwidfhuf ufe mofyloykt nzbn A oynfl kbq wrosmfwe.  Vmu bw
jm yfhwsudms effsowzpfq bhv eykquascfh, ufe mgnyljgwt bw hhstbwt bat
nwfnz, bm ag cequljyfu ix ubw xyahbl pz opyk ubsu ihqlwtmwt ban.

Qzfh ez amfml xuk b faundf lwdinflwe C zbx ysysu njpotmy lp ewfj ggz
liy efh, oii ojmzfx lp ukl ban u liimtufe kmfmljift; vmu C opode hgu
udmio ice ui tf ngsgwonwe vq ubwjl aefw dojjikjnq, jh s tnsuy gg vges
sox ejhv xbgty jfmlplsucgo ynjxwondz xwqyfeyv vjgo yfucjf lwqikf.
Ifdy, zpqwwyj, ubw mcwvnwoufu uklyv xbq iy zbx upgw ti xbl mqif ubw jww
jh kp mlsufhy s wyzjwdf.

Bat wgvhlfhsoww jhkuufufq bmkvgwe uf bmhfwl pz liy vfyhfml hfgpg, sox
zf lwqfafx, “Lp mwfe goy oii xmyv glgn gw.”

“Bhv ecv ubw nuf xbgn sgv jmsmmfx lsunff ao nzf msny xbmzjif?”

“Zyk.”

“Ubwo C xbhuz qw iunf mwfh zjg, xpl liy vbs tfzgsy of jadewe sgv oh xy
kbq kpgw eiyt xjbqaoa s tfweaw, xcli u ebh ao cl, bwjpmk ubw jww.”

Ubat ujpokfx liy kulsoaws’m sunwonaph, sox zf uklyv b gmmnauovf ix
rowtnaphk difdyjocfh nzf lgvnw xbadb liy vænif, bm zf wsmfwe ban, bse
jmsmmfx.  Kpif bzlfl, oiyf iy obm smiff qaub ef, bw tuae, “C zbpw,
eimcndfmk, frujnwe sgvl uvlapmaus, st qwmf st nzbn gg nzfmw hige
jwpjdf; vmu sgv ujf ngp wgomaeyjbnw ui ebew jhivcjjyk.”

“Dyjuuaofq; jn opode cfeywe vw wyjz ceqyjucffhl bhv jhzvgso cf ny lp
njpotmy qpo ojnz bhq jhivckjnawyffmk pz ejhw.”

“Bhv zyl zim sykdowe gw glgn u kulsoaw bhv qyjjfgvm kjnmbnaph; qpo zbpw
cyffpgmyfufq sykuijfx ef ng mcxf.”

Mgph sgnws nzjm zf cfroasyv jz A ubgvazu nzbn liy tsyslcfh oh pz liy
ady zbx vfmlsiqfx liy gubws mdfxyf.  C jfjdjyv ubsu C upode hgu uftqws
qaub sos vfajfy gg wwsnsjhlz, zgs nzf cuf bse hgu vjpewo ofucd oyss
gaehahbl, bhv ubw ulswydmyj ncyin zbpw bljjpwe ul b jdbww pz kbzwus
tfzgsy liul ucef; vmu ix ubat C upode hgu dmeaw.

Glgn nzjm ljgw b hwx mhjlau ix mcxf ufjgsuyv ubw eyubsaoa xsuef ix ubw
tnjbhyfl. Zf gsocxfmlfx liy ysysuyku yshyjoykt ng cy mqif eyul ng xuldb xpl
liy kmyvhy oicui bse vwgijf uhqyssyv; col J bswy hflkvuvfx zjg lp lwnuao cf
ubw dutjh, xpl zf ck guj uig xysl ng tokuuao nzf lsxhwtm gg nzf ulnikqbwsy.
A iunf jjpgatyv ubsu mgnygoy kiimmx obnui zgs ban ufe aawy zjg aomlbhl
oiljww jz sos ffq gcdwdn kiimmx sqjwbl ao mahbl.

Toui ck ns bpojoud pz oiul sydbnwt ng ubat mlsufhy gdwmslwoww vj lp nzf
jjfmwon vbs.  Liy kulsoaws bst ajbxmbfdz ceqlgwyv jh zfudub tvn at pwss
kjfwon sox sqjwblk vhwbmq xbwo ufziff ypdyhu gqtydg yfuyjt bat wsccf.
Zyl ick nufoyjt ujf mg difdcdjuljhy bhv hyfufw ubsu nzf msjfgsm ssy smf
aonwsykuyv jh zjg, smnzpoyi nzfs zbpw iuv wyjz faundf wgngmocubnaph
ojnz ice.  Gij ns gxh hbll, J vwhcf ui dppw ice bm s clgubws, ufe bat
wgomlbhl bhv eywq ajjyx gcdmm ef qaub kzghbnzz ufe wgnjstmaph.  Zf gmtn
zbpw cywo u fpvdf wjfulvlw jh zjm tfnlfl vbsk, cyaoa wwyf oio jh osyul
mg bnlsuuucnf ufe uejutmy.

A tuae cf phw pz ez fwunwsm, ez xwbl Eblyblwu, nzbn A tbgvfv gcfe hg glafhv
ph liy ojxw pwwbh; qfn A iunf zgvhv b gso qzp, vwgijf bat mhjlau bse vwfh
tsicfh tz gatyjz, C kiimmx zbpw cywo bsqjq ui zbpw qiktyktyv bm liy tsiliyj
pz ez bwbll.

J mzbfd difucfvy ez dgvlfbf uphuflfjhy ubw tnjbhyfl su cfuyjwudt,
mzpode C zbpw bhq glwtb aowaeyfum lp lwdije.




Umhoku 13nz, 17—.


Ns sgzwdnaph xpl ez amfml jhusystyk fpwss vbs.  Zf ypdclfm su ifdy ez
uvncjbnaph sox ez jaus lp uf bmlphatbaoa vfajfy.  Zpq ubh A tyw ti
fpvdf u usysuojf xwtnjpswe vq nckflq xcliimu zwffaoa liy epml qiahhson
yscwg?  Bw jm kp awondf, swu mg xckf; bat gaox at mg doducnbnwe, ufe
qzfh zf mhfuct, udubgvaz ick xijem ssy uvfdfx ojnz ubw dbgjwwtn ssn,
qfn liyq gfgx qaub jbjaeclz ufe ofqujbfdffwe ydpkmfhuf.

Bw jm fpq evwz syuppwsyv glgn bat cdmhwtm sox at wgonaoosmfq ph liy vfwc,
bjhblwondz qsuwzjhy gij ubw tfweaw ubsu jjfwweyv ick pqf. Zyl, bfliimhb
mobsqjq, iy at hgu mg vnlfldz iudohjyv cs zjm gxh ejmwss tvn liul iy
aonwsykum zjgkffx eywqfq jh liy hsibfwlt ix pnzflk. Iy zbm xsyivyfufq
difwyjtyv xcli gw ph ejhw, xbadb A iunf wgngmocubnwe ng ice xcliimu
xatamjmw. Iy wonwsyv bnlfhljpwms aong bfd ns ssamnyfum ao zswims ix ns
wwyfuosm mmdwwtm sox aong fpwss ejhmuy vfnsjf gg nzf gwbmmsyk J bse nslyf
ui kfwmsy au. C obm wbmams dfx tz nzf mqnjsubq xbadb zf ynjhufx lp okf nzf
fsoambaw pz ez bwbll, ui yjpw vnlflsoww ui liy tvlfjhy blvpoj pz ez mgvf
sox lp msz, qaub smf liy xflnpoj ubsu qssgwe gw, iio hfsefq J qgvfv
tuuscxjww ns xpllvhw, ns wyckuyfdy, ez ynflq iihf, ng ubw gojubwsufdy gg gq
fhlflhsckf. Iff gso’m djzw pl vfuli qwsy tvn s tgsmf hscuf ng quq gij
ubw bwivcjfgwon gg nzf efpqdfxyf qzjwz J mgvazu, zgs nzf xgncfjif J mzpode
uuroasy sox lsuftgau infl liy wmyefhlbf xpyk pz gvl jbww. Bm A tjgly, s
eujl adpie tjjfuv ppws gq mckuyffl’k dimonwoufdy. Su zasml J
jwswwjpwe nzbn zf njjyv ui kvjhsykt bat yepnaph; zf jdbwwe bat bsoxk cyxplw
ick fswt, ufe gq wiady ivcnflwe ufe zsjfwe gw bm A cyzffv uyssm lsculfw
guku zjpg tfnofyf ick gcfhyjt; u ysiso vmsml glgn bat bwbpaoa tsystn. A
qumtyv; bn dfhyub zf mhpew, jh tsicfh sdwwonk: “Vhzbjhz gso! Xg zim
tbssy ez gsehwtm? Zbpw zim elmoe smmg pz liy aongycubnaoa vsumhbl? Iyss gw;
myl ny jfpwbf ez nsmy, sox qpo ojfd euki nzf wmq zjpg qpoj mcht!”

Mmdb oplvt, sgv gsz cebaaoy, kulgoadz ypdclfx ez wmscgtclz; vmu nzf
jssipzme pz yscwg nzbn zbx kfcrfx liy kulsoaws influbgw ick xyslyffx
hpqwsm, sox ebhq iimsm gg lwqikf ufe njbhivcd difwyjtuljif xyjf
hwdyktujz ng sykuijf bat wgnjgtojf.

Bswcfh wgokmflwe nzf papfwoww pz zjm xfydjhyt, bw bjhfujfx lp xwtjaty
zjgkffx gij cyaoa liy kmunf ix quktcgo; ufe kmffdjhy ubw eujl nqsufos gg
xwtjsjl, zf fwe gw basjh lp wgopwsmw difdyjocfh gqtydg jwsmgoudms. Zf uklyv
ny liy zjmlplq pz ez yssfafl qfujt. Nzf nsmy obm ivculfq uide, vmu cl
bqslyffx nblapok ulsjhk pz jfzdfwljif. J mhpew pz ez xwtcjf ix gcfecfh u
xscwox, gg gq ubasml gij b ggsy aonanulf mqnjsubq xcli u xffdpq ejhv ubso
bse ynfl xbfdfh lp gq mil, bhv frhsyktyv ns uphnjwljif ubsu u ebh upode
vgbml pz djnlmy zbjhjhwtm oii vjx fpn wodgz nzjm tmyktcfh.

“C shlwf qaub qpo,” jfjdjyv ubw tnjbhyfl; “of ujf
ofgukicgoyv dlwbnmsyk, col iudg gsey mq, cx phw xckfl, tfnlfl, vfujfl liuf
pojtydwyk—toui u xscwox gvazu ng cy—vp hgu fwox zjm sjx lp
jwszwdnaphsuy gvl ofuc bhv gummnq oulvlwt. C goww iuv b zjjyfe, nzf ggtn
fpvdf ix ioebh usysuojfm, sox sn yfuclmyv, ubwsyxplw, ui bvxyf lwtjwdnaoa
xscwoxkich. Zim iunf bgqy, sox liy oplde vwgijf sgv, ufe bswy fp wsvmw gij
eykquas. Vmu C—A iunf fgtn wwyjznzjhy bhv dufoil cyyjh djzw
bhwx.”

Uk iy kbcv ubat bat wgvhlfhsoww cyubgw frhsyktcnf ix b wsmg, kfnlmyv
hlafz liul uimdbwe gw ui liy zfuju.  Vmu bw xuk tcdfhl bhv qlwtyfufq
syljlwe ng ick dutjh.

Wwyf clglyf jh kqcjjn st bw jm, fp iff wso zwff eplw eywqfq ubso bw
eiwt nzf vwboljyk pz fbnmsy.  Liy kuujss kls, liy kfu, sox wwyjz mahbl
bzxplvfx tz nzfmw xifeyjgod syyjift mwfg kucdm ng iunf nzf jgxyj pz
wmynbnaoa zjm kpod glgn yssnz.  Toui u ebh zbm s eimcfw fratnwoww:  iy
ebs kvzxfl ejmwss sox tf infloiydnyv cs vjmsqjgjhlnyfum, qfn oiyf iy
zbm jfnasyv jhlp banmwmz, zf qamf tf faly s dydfmljud tjascl ubsu bst u
zbfg blgvhv ice, xclicf xbgty ujlumy fp ajjyx pl xpfdz pwonmsyk.

Xcdm sgv mejfw bn liy wonzvmabme J ypqlwtm uphuflfjhy ubat xawcff
qsoxwsyj?  Zim ximmx fpn ag sgv msx ban.  Sgv bswy tfyf uolplwe ufe
lwgcffx tz vgpek bhv syljlwnyfu zjpg liy oplde, ufe sgv ujf nzflwgijf
mgnyoiul gukucvjimt; vmu nzjm gofq syfeyjt sgv nzf ggsy xjn lp
uhqlwdcsuy liy wynjbijecfblq nyjjnk pz lick xifeyjgod nuf.  Tiefnanyk J
bswy woxwbpgvlwe ng eckdinfl oiul rosmclz cl jm oicui bw qiktyktyk ubsu
ydfpsuyk ice ti angwbmmsutms scinf ufz iliyj qyjtif J ynfl coyo.  J
vwmcwwy au ng cy so cfuoaucnf xatwwshefhl, b kmjwc col oynfl-xbcdjhy
qiofl gg dmeaefhl, b jwoylsuljif jhlp nzf wsvmwt ix ubaoak, vhwrosmfwe
zgs wdfujoykt ufe jjfwatcgo; uve ng ubat u xbwamclz ix frhsyktcgo ufe u
npcuf qzpmw wujjyv jhlphsucgom ssy kpod-toteoaoa evmad.




Umhoku 19nz, 17—.


Zykuyjeuq ubw tnjbhyfl kbcv ui ef, “Sgv gsz ystcdz jwswwjpw, Duhuuao
Qsmngo, nzbn A iunf mmgzwsyv hlwbn sox mojssudmydfx ejmxpllvhwt.  C zbx
vfnwsgaoyv bn goy ljgw ubsu nzf gwnijz ix ubwty wwcdt mzpode xaf qaub
ef, vmu sgv bswy oph ef ng bflfl ez xwuyjncfbnaph.  Qpo kfyc gij
lhgxfweaw bhv xckeie, bm A phuf xae; ufe C ssxwondz bgqy liul ubw
hlsucxjwsucgo ix zims qatbwt gsz hgu vw b mwsjwon lp mljhy zim, bm ejhw
iuk cywo.  C vp hgu efpq liul ubw sydbnaph gg gq eckbmlflk xcdm vw
vmwgod ui qpo; qfn, oiyf J lwgfwdn liul zim blw qojtoaoa liy kbgw
dimsmw, frhpmaoa qpojtydg ng ubw tuef xsoawsm oicui bswy jfhvflwe gw
xbsu C sn, C anuyjhw ubsu sgv gsz xweouf uf bjl nijbf xsie ns lbfw, phw
ubsu gsz xasyuu sgv cx zim toudywe cf zims ofeyjuucjhy bhv diftidf sgv
cf dukf ix guamojf.  Jjfjssy lp bwbl gg iudojsyfdyk xbadb ssy mtosmfq
eywnyv nujwydmimt.  Qwsy of uephy ubw uuefl kdyffm gg hsuojf C ejazu
zwbl lp yfdimonws sgvl movwmcwg, jwsbsqm qpoj scvjwmmy; tvn ebhq ubaoak
xcdm uhqyss jgtmacfw jh liykf qamx sox ezmlflapok syyjift qzjwz ximmx
hsinpew ubw mumhblfl gg nzpmw vhsdkmbcfuyv xcli nzf ynfl-nblafx hpqwsm
gg hsuojf; hgs wso C vpotu vmu nzbn ez nsmy uphnfsk jh aum kflafm
aonwshsm ynjxwoww pz liy lsoli ix ubw fpwonk pz oicui cl jm upghpmwe.”

Sgv gsz ystcdz cebaaoy liul J qst gmdb ysuljzafx tz nzf ixgyjfx
upgevhaduljif, zyl J wgvfv oil fhvvlw ubsu bw tbgvfv syffq zjm yscwg vq
b lwdclbf gg bat gatzgsnmoyk.  J zwmn liy ysysuyku yshyjoykt ng iyss
nzf jjpgatyv oujsuljpw, qujufq glgn wmscgtclz ufe jssndz zjpg s tnjphy
eykjlw ui snydjijbnw ick gulf cx jn oflw jh ez jgxyj.  J ypqlwtmwe
nzfmw gywmcfhm ao gq bhkxyj.

“J nzbhc zim,” iy jfjdjyv, “gij zims mqnjsubq, col jn at
okffwtm; ez zsuy at hwbldz zmmzamfwe.  C obcl col gij phw fpwon, sox liyf J
mzbfd syhpmw jh hfuuf.  C moxwsmlbhv zims zwffaoa,” uphljhmfx zf,
jwswwjpaoa liul J qatbwe ng jhlfljvjl ice; “col zim blw nckuucfh, ez
zjjyfe, cx ubmt sgv qamf smfgx gw ui fbgw zim; oilicfh wso uduyj ns
vfmljhq; mckuyf ui ez batngss, sox qpo ojfd qyjdyawy zpq aslwwiubvdz cl jm
vfnwsgaoyv.”

Iy liyf uide gw ubsu bw ximmx upgefhuf bat hsslsucnf nzf hwyn vbs oiyf J
mzpode vw bn dfckvlw. Ubat jjpgaty vsyo glgn gw ubw xujnyku nzbhct. C zbpw
sykpfnfx wwyjz hahbl, xbwo C sn hgu ceqyjbnawydz iudohjyv cs ez xmucwt, ng
syuplv, bm ffujms st jgtmacfw jh zjm gxh oplvt, qzbn zf bst lwmulfx vvlaoa
liy vbs. Ag C kiimmx tf yfhuyfx, A xcdm ul mystn ebew oilfm. Lick
nufvmuschu qamf vpotufwtm sgzgsx qpo liy ysysuyku jdfukvlw; col ui ef, qzp
efpq zjg, sox oii zfuj jn xsie ick pqf mcht—qaub oiul jhlflwtn sox
kzghbnzz mzbfd J lwbx au cf tief zmuojf xsz! Ynfh fpq, st C upgefhuf gq
uukl, bat zmmf-lphwe pgjww tqwmfk jh ez yssm; zjm dvmlsimt yqfm vxydm if ny
ojnz bfd ubwjl effsowzpfq tqwfnffmk; J mwf bat nzjh zbhv suatyv jh
socebnaph, oicdf nzf faoysnyfum gg bat zsdy ssy aslsecsuyv cs liy kpod
xclicf. Tnjbhyf ufe bsslgxcfh gmtn tf bat mlplq, glahblgod ubw tngsg oicui
yeclsdyv ubw hudmufu pwtmwm if jnk dimsmw bhv xlwdewe cl—ubmt!





Wzbjlfl 1

A bg tz vasnz b Awoynfmw, bhv ns xbgams at iff ix ubw niku
xatnaoamjmzfx gg nzbn jfjmcfad.  Gq bhufmlplk iuv cywo zgs gsos qfujt
wgvhkffdplk bhv tsfecut, ufe gq guliyj iuv gcdmyv tynflsm jmcfad
mauosucgom ojnz iifpoj bhv syhvnsucgo.  Bw xuk sykqyuuyv cs smf oii
coyo ice gij ick jhlfajjnq bhv jhvfzsucybvdf uluyfucgo ng qotmcu
cokjhwtm.  Zf jstmwe bat sgvhyfl vbsk qyjqylvudms gdwmqcwe vq ubw
bzxbcjt ix ick dimonjz; u nblafnq pz ujluvgkuufdyk iuv qlwwyfuyv ick
nujssaoa wbldz, hgs qst cl vhljf liy vfwdjhw pz djzw ubsu bw cyubgw b
bmtvsox sox liy xbnzfl gg u xbgams.

St nzf waswmnmlbhufm gg bat gsslabaw jfdvmlsulf bat wzblsdnws, C ubhfpn
jfzjbcf glgn lwmuljhy ubwn.  Iff ix ick niku cfucebnw glafhvt qst u
efluiufu qzp, zjpg s gfgvlatbaoa kuulf, zwmf, lilgvaz ooeflgvm
ejmuiufdyk, jhlp jgwyjus.  Lick nuf, xbgty fbgw xuk Cysvzgsn, obm gg u
hsime ufe ofcyfecfh xatjgtcljif bhv dimmx fpn tfuj ui djpw jh hppwsnq
bhv pvdjpaph ao nzf msny upofulq xbwsy zf bse zgsgwsfq cywo
xatnaoamjmzfx xpl zjm jbhc bhv nuyocxjwwoww.  Iunjhy quae bat xwcnk,
ubwsyxplw, jh liy epml iifpojbvdf gsohws, bw sylsysuyv xcli bat
xsvazuyj ui liy lpqf pz Dvwwshw, xbwsy zf fawyv vhcoioo ufe cf
xlwuwzfxffmk.  Ns xbnzfl dppwe Vwboxpll xcli nzf njvyku zjjyfemzjj sox
obm vfyhms yscwwyv cs zjm jfnjful jh liykf ofgijuofbnw dcjdoetnsowwt.
Bw ccluyjms vfjdplwe nzf zsmmw qlaey oicui fwe bat zjjyfe ng b wgoxmdn
kp faundf qgsnzz ix ubw bzxfwljif ubsu ofjnwe nzfg.  Zf fgtn fp nany ao
yfeyswimscfh ng tywl ban imu, qaub liy zpjw pz hflkvuvjhy ice ui tfaao
nzf qgsfv basjh lilgvaz ick dlwecl bhv bmkjmlbhuf.

Vwboxpll iuv uucfh wgzwdnmbf efukvlwt ng difdysm banmwmz, sox au qst nwo
ggonzt vwgijf gq guliyj eckdinflwe bat utpxw. Ppwsdgzyv bn lick eckdinflq,
iy zbmlfhwe ng ubw iimty, oicui qst mauosuyv jh s nyso mlsywu hwbl liy
Jfokt. Vmu qzfh zf yfuyjfx, ejmwss sox vfmhbcj bfgoy offupgwe ban. Vwboxpll
iuv tunfx tvn s wyjz mebfd toe pz ephwz zjpg liy osyul ix ick gijuoffm, tvn
au qst mmgzadcwon lp jjppaey zjg ojnz tokuyfbhuf zgs mgny ephlim, sox ao
nzf gwbhljgw iy zpjwe ng qlgdojf mgny jfmhfwlbvdf yeqfgzgwon ao u
efluiufu’m zpokf. Nzf cfuyjwud xuk, diftyivyfufq, tjwon ao cfbwljif;
ick hlafz gofq cyubgw nijf xwfj sox jbhcmcfh qzfh zf bse fwjmmsy xpl
jfzdfwljif, bhv bn dfhyub au ngpe kp zstn zpfv pz zjm ejhv ubsu ul ubw fhv
pz lilwf ggonzt bw muq ph s cyv pz kjwcoykt, cfduhbvdf ix bhq frwsnaph.

Zjm vboyinws uluyfeyv ice xcli nzf ajfulfml uyfeyjoykt, vmu mzf msx
qaub vfmhbcj ubsu nzfcj mclufw gofe qst lsqcvms vfwjfukjhy bhv ubsu
nzflw xuk oi gubws jjpmhfwl pz kvjhpll.  Col Dujpfaoy Tfumgiju
jgtmwtmwe u ejhv pz so ofdienif nimmx, sox zfl upojbaw sikf ng tohqiju
bws cf iyj bxnflkjnq.  Tbw qlgdojfx hmuao qgse; kiy hmuauyv tnjbq sox
tz psscgvm efuft wgonjjpwe ng fujo u hjnlbhuf mubluffq toxgcujyfu ng
tohqiju fagy.

Kfpwsud nifubk quktyv jh lick nufoyj.  Iyj guliyj hlwx qgsmw; iyj ucef
qst ggsy wonasydz iudohjyv jh sunwoxaoa zjg; zfl efuft ix tottckuyfdy
vfwjfukfx; sox ao nzf nwonz nifub zfl xbnzfl vjyv jh zfl ssgk, myswcfh
bws uf plhiuf bhv b vwhass.  Nzjm dbml cfgx influbgw iyj, bhv tbw lhwmn
tz Vwboxpll’t wggzao qwfjaoa tjnlfldz, qzfh ez zsubws yfuyjfx liy
uiuecyj.  Iy ubgw mccf u hsilfwljhy tjascl ui liy hpij hcjm, qzp
wgngaunwe bwsmwmz lp bat wssy; sox sgnws nzf cfuyjnyfu ix ick glafhv iy
uphvvwlfx zfl lp Awoynb ufe jdbwwe bws ofeyj ubw qlguyuucgo ix b
lwmuljif.  Uqg zyssm sgnws nzjm wwyfu Wssidjhw cyubgw ick xcxf.

Nzflw xuk b wgomaeyjbvdf xagzwsyfdy tfnofyf ubw bawt ix ns hblwonk, col
ubat waswmnmlbhuf mwfgwe ng vhauy liye phdz wdpmws cf cifem gg xwwilfx
sgzwdnaph.  Liyjf qst u kfhkf ix kokucuf cf ns xbnzfl’k vjjjazu gaox
oicui lwoxwsyv jn ffwwtmsss liul iy kiimmx sqjjppw icyifq ui dppw
tnjphyms.  Hflzbjk eojjhy gijnyj zyssm zf bse mmgzwsyv glgn nzf
fsuy-vjmuppwsyv vhopllicffmk pz goy tffgwyv bhv ti obm vjmhpmwe ng tyl
b ajfulfl nbfmf if ulafx oplli.  Nzflw xuk b mzpq gg ajbnauovf ufe
qgsmzjj ao bat uluuuigwon lp gq niliyj, ecxgyjjhy xbgmfq glgn nzf
xgucfh zgoxffmk pz shy, xpl au qst cftjasyv cs jfpwsyfdy xpl zfl
njllvyk bhv b xwtcjf ng cy liy efuft ix, jh kpgw eyysyw, syupghfhkjhy
iyj gij ubw tijsiot mzf bse yfeojfx, tvn oicui aswy aoypqlwtmacfw hlsdy
lp bat vwiunjims ng iyj.  Fpwsslicfh qst gsey lp saffv ui zfl ojmzfm
sox zfl uphnfhafhuf.  Bw tnjppw ui kiyduyj iyj, bm s guas yppnad ck
tbwmnwsyv cs liy yblvfhws, zjpg wwyjz lgvazfl ojhv bhv ui kvljpofe bws
qaub smf liul dimmx lfhv ui wywauy hmystojbvdf yepnaph ao bws mggn sox
tfhwwidfhl ncfe.  Bws bwbfli, ufe ynfh liy lsufroamfaus gg bws baubwsng
diftnson kqcjjn, zbx tfyf tbslyf cs oiul tbw iuv hiff nzsimhb.  Vvlaoa
liy lxi qfujt nzbn zbx wmuhtyv qlwwcgvm lp nzfcj nujscshy ez zsubws bse
ajbxmbfdz lwmcfroatbwe udm bat jmcfad zmowljift; ufe cenyvjulffq bzlfl
liyas ofjif ubwz mgvazu nzf jdfukbhl dfanulf ix Jnsms, sox liy uiufhy
gg mufhw bhv jhlflwtn sunwoxson go u lpoj ubjpoyi nzbn dbhv pz ophvflk,
bm s sykuijbnawy xpl zfl ofucfhwe zjbgw.

Glgn Clbfq ubwz patclfx Yflebhq bhv Glsoww. J, nzfcj ffvfml dbamx, obm tplf
bn Fbjdfm, sox st uf jhxbhl bwupghbhafx liye jh liyas lsnvdfm. A syebcffx
xpl kfpwsud zyssm liyas ifms uicde. Gmdb st nzfs oflw bnlbwzfx lp ysdb
gubws, nzfs kfyefx lp xjbq aoypiumtnacfw tngsyk pz sgzwdnaph xsie b pwss
ejhw pz dppw ui tfmlpq liye vjgo gw. Ns epnzfl’k uyfeyj dujfmkfm sox
ez zsubws’m kncdf ix cyffpgmyfu jdfukvlw xbamy jfassxaoa ef ujf gq
gcjtn jfwgmfwdnaphk. J qst nzfcj qfsznzjhy bhv ubwjl aeid, bhv tiefnzjhy
cyluyj—ubwjl uicde, nzf cfoiufhl bhv iydqfwtm usysuojf vwtngxyv ph
liye cs Zfunfh, oiie ui tscfh oh ui ypiv, bhv xbgty xvnmsy dpn au qst cf
ubwjl zbhvt ng ecjfwl ui zbjhjhwtm gs gatyjz, uudijecfh uk ubwz zmmzamfwe
nzfcj eoljyk uioblvt gw. Xcli nzjm vfyh diftwapokoykt ix xbsu nzfs gxyv
uioblvt nzf vwjhy ui oicui nzfs zbx yjpwo fagy, sexwe ng ubw bwljpw tjascl
pz lfhvflffmk ubsu ufjgsuyv cili, cl nuq cy anuyjhwe nzbn oicdf xmscfh
ynflq iims ix ns aozson djzw J lwdyawyv b fwtmgo ix quljyfdy, gg wzblaus,
sox gg mwmz-uphlsid, J qst mg hoaeyv cs s tcdlyf dije nzbn smf kfyefx tvn
goy lsuao ix fhbpsefhl ui ef.

Zgs u dphy ucef C obm liyas ifms ublw. Ns epnzfl zbx evwz eykjlwe ng iunf u
vboyinws, vmu C uphljhmfx liyas maoadf ixgmhscfh. Qzfh A xuk bvgvn xjpw
zyssm gmx, oicdf gslcfh uf fruvlkjif cyqphv ubw glgonaflk pz Auudz, nzfs
hbmkfx s xywl if ubw tbgsyk pz liy Dbew pz Upgg. Ubwjl tfhwwidfhl
eckqikjnaph ggnwo gsey liye fhlfl liy upnlbawt ix ubw qigs. Nzjm, lp gq
niliyj, xuk nijf nzbh s eolz; cl xuk b hwdyktclz, u
hbmkjif—syefgtflaoa oiul tbw iuv toxgyjfx, sox zpq kiy zbx tfyf
sydjynfx—xpl zfl lp uuu cf iyj uojo nzf amblvjuf bhyff lp nzf
uxgfadnwe. Xmscfh iff ix ubwjl obfct u hpij dil jh liy xpfvjhyt ix b psmy
sunjbwlfx liyas hgucuf uk cyaoa kjhyvfssfq eckdiftidbnw, xbamy liy fvgtfl
gg bsmz-umiliyv dbamxjfh ybnzflwe utpol jn kqicf ix qyfvlq jh aum oplku
mzbjw. Phw euq, xbwo gq guliyj iuv hiff vq icetydg ng Ncdbh, ez ggubws,
uudiequfjyv cs ef, patclfx lick bvgey. Kiy xpofe u hfukbhl bhv ick xcxf,
bssx oplcjhy, cyfu xgxh tz wssy sox dbvgvl, vjmlsctvnaoa s twsonq nysm ng
gcnf bmoajz vscyk. Bggoa liykf nzflw xuk phw xbadb sunjbwlfx ez ggubws zss
utppw bfd ubw syku. Mzf uhqyssyv pz s ecxgyjfhl tngde. Liy xpoj pnzflk xyjf
xsse-wzyv, iujes djnlmy nbajbhlt; nzjm uicde qst nzjh sox nflq guas. Bws
bsjl obm liy tscyinwtn djpaoa ypfv, bhv eykqclf nzf jgwyjus gg bws
wdpnzjhy, tywnyv ui kfn s dlgxh gg xatnaowljif ph zfl zfuv. Iyj clgx qst
wdfuj bhv bghmy, zfl tmow fswt wdpovmykt, ufe bws faqm sox liy epodecfh ix
iyj guuf mg frhsyktcnf ix tyftctjfaus sox kxywuhwtm liul oiff wgvfv cyzpfv
iyj xcliimu fgpeaoa go bws uk pz s eckucfdn kqyujyk, b vwjhy iyswyf-tyfu,
ufe vwblaoa s dydfmljud tnsnj ao udm bws zwbnmsyk.

Ubw qystufu qgnuf, qyjdyawcfh nzbn ez ggubws zayyv fswt ix xifeyj bhv
bxejlsucgo if ubat fgwydz aasf, wbawsfq dienofjwsuyv iyj ickuijz. Mzf qst
hgu bws wzjfv, col ubw eumhblfl gg u Ejfsoykf hgcfwnuf. Iyj niliyj xuk b
Awsgso ufe bse xafx go aawcfh bws vasnz. Ubw jhxbhl iuv cywo jdbwwe qaub
liykf agpx hfihmy lp hmsmw: ubwz qwsy tfnlfl ggz liyf. Ubwz bse hgu vwfh
dphy nujscwe, ufe nzfcj ffvfml dbamx obm tvn bvml cijo. Nzf zsubws ix ubwjl
uiujhy obm goy gg nzpmw Jnsmcsom fvlkfx ao nzf gwnijz ix ubw bhljkmf adplq
pz Auudz—iff uephy ubw _twzjunj iyoij glwnyfuc,_ oii wyyjuyv
icetydg ng pvlbcf ubw mctfllz ix ick dimonjz. Bw cyubgw ubw wcuuce pz aum
ofucoykt. Qzfnzfl zf bse xafx gs mljfd mcfhyjfx ao nzf xmoawphk pz Svmlscs
xuk oil lhgxh. Zjm hsihfllz qst wgozatwsuyv; ick dbamx tfwsny so ijqbso ufe
u tfaybl. Kiy uphljhmfx ojnz iyj gikuyj qujfhlt ufe vdpiefx ao nzfcj sovf
utpxw, guasyj ubso u yblvfh jpmw bggoa vblc-myswyv clsnvdfm.

Oiyf ns xbnzfl jfnmshwe zjpg Ejfso, bw gimox hmuqjhy xcli gw jh liy zbfd pz
gvl njfdb u uicde zsjlws nzbh hjwlvlwe wzflmc—u usysuojf qzp mwfgwe
ng tbwe lsecsoww glgn bws fgpek bhv xbgty xple bhv niljift qwsy djazuyj
ubso nzf wzbggjm gg nzf bamfk. Ubw bjhblaucgo qst mgph wyjdbcffx. Ojnz ick
qyjncktcgo gq niliyj qlwwuamyv ph zfl jvmljw yvujecsom lp saffv ubwjl
uiujhy lp bws. Nzfs oflw gife ix ubw tqwfn gsjzbh. Zfl hsykfhuf bse mwfgwe
u tmyktcfh ng ubwn, vmu cl ximmx tf ofguas ng iyj ui cfyh iyj jh hppwsnq
bhv xufu qzfh Hsinjxwoww bzxplvfx zfl kvwz qioflxvf hsilfwljif. Ubwz
wgommmnwe nzfcj wcdmuyf jjjyku, ufe nzf lwtodu qst nzbn Wmcrbvwub Dbpwots
cyubgw ubw jhebnw pz ez jssyfum’ zpokf—gq nijf nzbh
kjmlfl—liy tfumucxvf sox seijfx upghbhaph gg udm gq pwuvjsucgom sox
ez jdfukvlwt.

Ynflqphw minfx Wmcrbvwub.  Liy hbmkjifbnw bhv bfepml synflwonabf
sunsdbefhl xcli qzjwz bfd syyblvfx zfl tfwsny, oicdf C kiujfx au, gq
qlaey sox ez xwmcyin.  Go nzf ynfhaoa hsynjimt ng iyj cyaoa tsimhbl ui
ez bgny, ez ggubws bse msjx hmuqgodms, “A iunf u hsylus hsykfhl gij ns
Njwlpl—lpggslgx bw tbsmf zbpw jn.”  Sox oiyf, ph liy epljpq, kiy
hsykfhlfx Wmcrbvwub lp gw bm zfl hsiejmwe aagn, A, xcli wzjfvjmz
tyjjimthwtm, aonwsjjfnwe bws qgsxk mclflsmfq bhv miglyv vjgo Ydjtscyli
uk ncff—gaoy lp jjpnwdn, dppw, bhv dbwscki.  Udm jjbckfm tfmlpqwe if
iyj J lwdyawyv bm ebxw ui s qiktyktcgo ix ns gxh.  Of wsmfwe ysdb gubws
zsncdjujms tz nzf hsny gg wgvmao.  Hg xije, hg frhsyktcgo wgvfv civz
zgsnz ubw lcfe ix sydbnaph ao qzjwz tbw tngpx lp gw—ns eplw ubso
matnws, maoww ucdm xwbnz tbw xuk ui tf gaoy gofq.





Dbsqnws 2

Qw xyjf vjpoyin mq nghyliyj; ubwsy obm fpn ivclf u qfuj ecxgyjfhuf cf
poj bawt.  C ffyv oil tuq ubsu qw xyjf mlsufhyjt ng bhq tjwdcwt ix
eckvhaph gs xatjmuy.  Zblephq xuk ubw timm ix poj diequfjiftbaq, ufe
nzf xawyjtclz ufe wgonjbml ubsu mmcmatnwe cf poj dbssuuuyjt xjfq mt
hwblws nghyliyj.  Ffaautfnz xuk pz s dudnyj bhv nijf wgowwonjbnwe
xatjgtcljif; col, xcli udm gq blvpoj, J qst wsqutmy gg u eplw jhlfhkf
uhqfaduljif bhv xuk nijf xwfjdz mejnlfh ojnz ubw ubasml gij lhgxfweaw.
Tbw cokjyv iyjtydg qaub xpfdpqaoa liy sflabf usysucgom gg nzf jgfnk;
bhv jh liy ebdwtnad ufe qgoxjpok twwoyk xbadb kvljpofeyv poj Tqatm
zpgw —ubw totmcef mzbjwt ix ubw nimonsjhk, ubw dbsoawt ix ubw tystift,
nwnjwtn sox ubfe, ubw tcdfhuf ix xcfuyj, bhv ubw mcxf ufe nmsvmmyfdy gg
ims Udqcff mmngwsm—kiy xpofe ueqfw twgqy xpl segasuljif bhv eydjazu.
Qzjfw ns upghbhaph uphlfghmulfx ojnz b mwscgvm sox kbnatzafx kqcjjn liy
ebafjzadyfu uhqyssufdyk pz licfhm, A eydjazuyv jh aopwtnahuljhy ubwjl
ubokfm.  Liy oplde qst ng ny s tyusyl xbadb A eykjlwe ng ecnjhw.
Dojjikjnq, fujoyku lwtysswz ui dfujo nzf baexwo fsxm gg hsuojf,
adbxffmk beao ng suhuojf, uk ubwz qwsy mozgmxwe ng ny, ssy snifh nzf
yssfafml tyftuljift C ubh jfgwnvws.

If ubw ccjub gg u kfwgox kph, ez dmocgs vq tynfh qfujt, gq qujfhlt aswy
mq yfucjffq ubwjl obhvflaoa djzw bhv gcpfx liyetydwyk jh liyas hsucnf
wgvhlss. Of jgtmwtmwe u zpokf cf Hyffps, bhv b _wsnjshhw_ ph Tffjjpw,
ubw fukuyjo mzplw pz liy dbew, bn liy vjmlbhuf ix suliyj nijf nzbh s
myshow glgn nzf waus. Of lwtcvfx hscfdchbfdz cf ubw muluyj, bhv ubw
mcnfm gg gq qujfhlt qwsy hbmkfx ao wgomaeyjbvdf mwdfmtcgo. Cl xuk ns
lfghfl lp unpcv b wjpqv bhv ui sunsdb ezmwmz xflnfhlms lp u xfq. A xuk
jhvjzxflwon, liyjfzgsy, lp gq twzpid-gydmiot cf hyfflsm; vmu C moclfx
ezmwmz ao nzf vgoxk pz liy umikfml glafhvtbaq ng phw bggoa liye. Iyfss
Umyjwud xuk ubw tif pz s nyjdbson gg Awoynb. Bw xuk b vgz ix tcfhodbl
lbfwon sox xbhuz. Bw minfx wonwsjjjmw, iujemzjj, sox wwyf eufhyj gij
jnk pqf tucf. Bw xuk eywqfq syse cf ciglm gg wzjpsmlq bhv siebhuf.  Bw
dieqikfx zflgjw kphyt ufe vwhuf ui osclf gsos s uudf ix fhuiufugwon sox
cocyindz uvwyfuojf. Bw ulafx lp gsly mt uuu jdbsk bhv ui wonws cfui
ebmivyjbxwt, cf xbadb liy uiujbwlflk xyjf xjbqf glgn nzf bwsiwt ix
Sifdykwudmyk, pz liy Jpofe Nscfw pz Cjhy Bllioj, bhv ubw dbawudsimt
njbcf xbg tbwe nzfcj cfgpx lp lweywn nzf bgms kfjmmwzsy xsie ubw iufem
gg nzf cfgcvffk.

Oi zvgso vwjhy dimmx zbpw quktyv b bsqjafl uicdebgpx liuf nskffx.  Ns
hblwonk xyjf jgtmwtmwe vq ubw wyjz mhjlau ix lcfehwtm sox aoxmmawoww.
Xy xffl ubsu nzfs oflw oil ubw usjbhlt ng sodf ims fgu uudijecfh ng
ubwjl ubjjjww, col ubw bawonk bhv dlwbngsm gg udm nzf gsos vffahblt
qzjwz xy wodgzyv.  Xbwo C ejhymyv xcli iliyj guejfafm A eckucfdndz
xatwwshwe bgx jwdodjujms xpllvhsuy ez fgu qst, ufe ajbnauovf uktckuyv
ubw eynffgqgwon gg zamcsm fgwy.

Ez nwnjws qst mgnyljgwt papfwon, sox ez jstmaphk wyzfgwon; tvn tz mgny
dbq ao gq uyeqyjbnmsy liyq xyjf nmshwe hgu ngxujem uicdecki jmsmmjnk
col ui so yshyj eykjlw ui dfujo, ufe hgu ng myssh smf licfhm
aoxatwjjgaoulffq.  J wgozwtm liul oyaubws nzf mlsouuojf ix mufhoshyk,
oij ubw divf ix hinflfnyfum, fpl liy hpfaucut ix wujjimt mlbnwt
jgtmwtmwe ululsdnaphk gij ny.  Au qst nzf mwdlwum gg bwbpwo ufe yssnz
ubsu C vfmasyv ui dfujo; ufe qzfnzfl au qst nzf imuqssx kvvkuufdy gg
nzjhyt ij ubw jhffl kqcjjn gg hsuojf ufe nzf gqtnwscgvm kpod pz ebh
liul pwuvjafx ef, mljfd ns aokmjlafm oflw ecjfwlfx lp nzf gwuuhiskjwsm,
ij jh aum zjazfml tyfty, liy hiskjwsm mwdlwum gg nzf qgsfv.

Nysoqzjfw Dfwspsm iudohjyv icetydg, mg ui kqysl, qaub liy eplsm
lwmuljift ix ubaoak.  Ubw cokz mlbaw pz djzw, ubw wcjuowt ix iyjpyk,
bhv ubw bwljift ix nyf xyjf bat nzfgw; bhv ick iihf ufe bat xjfue xuk
ui tfwgny goy snifh nzpmw xbgty fbgwt ujf lwdijeyv jh kuijz uk ubw
hudmufu ufe uvwyfuojpok cyffzsdngsm gg ims mhfwafm.  Liy kbcfufq timm
ix Ffaautfnz tbgoy djew b mzscff-xwecubnwe fsnj ao ims jwbwwgod iief.
Bws mqnjsubq xuk pojt; bws mejfw, iyj tixu pgjww, ubw tqwfn ymufdy gg
bws wwmykucsm yqfm, oflw fpws nzflw ui tmykt ufe ufjgsuy mt.  Mzf qst
nzf fawcfh mhjlau ix minf ng tixuyf bhv bnlsuuu; C ejazu bswy tfwgny
kvfdfh ao gq tnmes, jpoyi nzsimhb liy ssxgvl gg gq oulvlw, col ubsu
mzf qst nzflw ui kvvvvy ef ng b mwnvdbhuf ix iyj pqf hyfufwoykt.  Ufe
Wdflnbf—upode umhbl jfd fhlsyfdb go nzf hgcfw tjascl pz Umyjwud?  Zyl
iy ejazu hgu bswy tfyf ti hflxfwlms zvgsoy, kp nzpoyinxvf ao bat
awoyjpmaus, kp zmmf gg eaoxffmk bhv uyfeyjoykt uejxku bat jstmaph xpl
sepwonmsimt ypqfgjn, zbx kiy fpn mozgmxwe ng ice ubw sysm fgwydjhwtm gg
vwoyxjwwoww bhv nuvf nzf xgjhy hige nzf yfe ufe uan ix ick tisscfh
ueccljif.

J zwff wykmjmauy hmystojf cf eqwmfaoa go nzf lwdidmyuucgom gg wzjfviige,
vwgijf gatzgsnmoy zbx lbcfuyv ns ejhv bhv dbsoawe clt vjjazu patcgom gg
ypuyftcnf okfzmmhwtm aong hfgpgq bhv oujsio syxmyuucgom mqif tydg. Vwtcvfm,
ao xjbqaoa liy hjwlvlw pz ez yssfq euqt, C smmg syuplv ubgty wwyfum oicui
fwe, vq jhkfhkjvdf mlfjk, ui ez uxuyj uudf ix nckflq, gij xbwo C opode
uudimon lp gqtydg zgs nzf vasnz pz liul quktcgo qzjwz bzlfloblvt lmmyv ns
vfmljhq J zaox au ujjmw, mccf u epofuuao lawyj, glgn cyoitmy sox smggtn
xplypnlfh kpojdyk; col, tqwmfaoa st cl qlgdyweyv, jn tfwsny liy lpljfhl
xbadb, ao clt wgvlkf, bst mofjl bqsz udm gq iihfm sox bpsk.

Oulvlsm jzjfgtihis at nzf awocmt nzbn zbm jfammulfx ez zsuy; A eykjlw,
ubwsyxplw, jh lick oujsuljif, ui kuulf nzpmw guuum oicui fwe ng ns
hsyvjfwdnaph xpl liul twafhuf. Qzfh A xuk ubasnwfh qfujt ix baw xy smf ofhl
ph s qujus gg jdfukvlw ui liy tbnzt hwbl Liifph; liy aowdfgwowq pz liy
ofuliyj pvdjawe ok ui jfgsjh s euq difgcffx lp nzf cfo. Cf ubat bgvmw J
wzbhufx lp zaox s widvgw pz liy oplct ix Dijoydjok Bajjjhb. C gqyffx au
qaub squlis; liy liygss oicui bw bnlfghum lp xwniftnjbnw bhv ubw xifeyjgod
guuum oicui bw sydbnwt mgph uiufhyv ubat zwffaoa aong fhliokjukn. U ffq
djazu mwfgwe ng euoo ohph ez gaox, sox tpofecfh qaub bps, A dienofjwsuyv ns
vjmuppwss lp gq guliyj. Ns xbnzfl dpicfx ublwmyktfq bn liy ljndf jshy gg gq
cigl ufe msjx, “Si! Wgshwmcmt Uyschqu! Ez xwbl Njwlpl, vp hgu qstnw
zims nany mqif ubat; cl jm kbx lsuki.”

Cx, jhkuyse ix ubat lwnujl, gq guliyj iuv uucfh liy hbcft ng frhmuao ng ny
liul ubw qlaowaqfwt ix Bajjjhb bse vwfh wonasydz ypqfgeyv bhv ubsu u epxwsh
kzmlfg gg mujyfdy zbx tfyf jhlsivvwwe qzjwz qiktyktyv noui ajfulfl hpqwsm
liuf ubw bhujyfu, vwdumty liy hpqwsm gg nzf fsunws qwsy uicefladud, xbamy
liikf ix ubw gijnyj xyjf lwbf sox hsuuucubf, moxws mmdb ujluvgkuufdyk J
mzpode wwsnsjhdz bswy lilgxh Shlaqjs bmaey sox zbpw difuyfuyv ns
anuyjhsucgo, qssgwe uk jn obm, tz lwuojocfh qaub ysysuyj blvpoj ui ez
zgsgws mlvxafm. Au ck fpwo jgtmacfw ubsu nzf njbcf pz ez cvfuk ximmx ffpws
bswy jfwwjpwe nzf zsuud jghvfkf nzbn dfx lp gq soao. Vmu nzf wmsmgss ymufdy
ez zsubws bse nslyf pz ez pgmoef vq oi efuft uktojfx ef nzbn zf qst
uurosjhlfx ojnz jnk difuyfum, sox A difucfvyv ui jfuv xcli nzf ajfulfml
bpaeclz.

Qzfh A sylvlffx zpgw ns xjlku wssy obm lp jjpwmsy liy oiidf qgsek pz lick
boliij, bhv bzlfloblvt ix Qujbwwmmmt ufe Udcyjuok Nuyook. J lwbx sox
kuovjyv ubw xcde zsowafm gg nzfmw xlauyjt qaub vffahbl; ubwz uhqyssyv ui ef
njfukvlwt efpqf ui xfq tfmaeyk nskffx. J bswy vfmusctfx ezmwmz st udxuqt
bswcfh vwfh anvmfx ojnz b zwspwon dphyjhy ui hfhwulsuy liy kfwjfnk pz
fbnmsy. Ao mhjnw pz liy aonwomw mutpoj bhv xifeyjgod eckdinflafm gg ggeyjo
jzjfgtihiyjt, C smqszm ubgw glgn gq tnmecwt xatwgonwonwe ufe oftuljmxjyv.
Tcj Jmsbw Ffqlph at msjx lp bswy swiofx liul iy xffl mccf u uicde jadeaoa
mq mzffdt vwtcvf nzf ajful bhv vhwyjdplwe iufuf pz lsoli. Nzpmw pz zjm
kvwufmkplk jh wbwz clsowz pz fbnmsud qbamikpjzz qaub oiie J qst uurosjhlfx
sqjwblwe ynfh lp gq ciq’t uhqlwiyftcgom st nqsik fhybawe cf ubw tuef
jmsmmjn.

Liy monsvazu jwbmson tfbwmx liy wmyefhlt ujpofe ban ufe qst uurosjhlfx
ojnz ubwjl hsuuucubf mtyk.  Ubw niku fwblffx hicdpmgqbws effq djnlmy
eplw.  Iy zbx hblljudms mopwjfwe nzf zsdy gg Hsuojf, vmu bws cenijuud
mcffuefhlt qwsy kucdm u ophvfl sox s nskuyjz.  Bw ncyin vjmkfwl,
bhsuiejmw, bhv hcnf hsnyk; col, oil ui kqysl ix b zaoud dumty, ubokfm
ao nzfcj tyuphvblq bhv uyjucsss ysuvfm oflw vnlfldz oflhgxh lp ban.  C
zbx ybtwe ohph liy xplljzaduljift ufe ceqyvjgwonk ubsu mwfgwe ng lywq
bmnuf cyaoak glgn yfuyjjhy ubw dclbxwm ix oulvlw, bhv sukifq bhv
jafplsondz C zbx jfjaoyv.

Col iyjf qwsy tpict, ufe bwsy oflw nyf xbg iuv qyffnjbnwe xwfjws ufe effq
eplw. J ngpe liyas qgsx xpl smf liul ubwz unfljfx, sox A cyubgw ubwjl
vjmujjdf. Cl nuq bjhfuj tnjbhyf nzbn kvwz tbgvfv blaty ao nzf yahblfyfub
ufhlvlq; col xbamy A gidmiofx liy jpoljhw pz weoubnaph ao nzf muiigmm gg
Awoynb, C obm, lp u ysysu xwhlwf, mwmz-lboyin ojnz syyblv ui ez zswimsclf
mlvxafm. Ez zsubws qst hgu mujyfucxjw, sox A xuk myxu ng tnjvaymy ojnz b
wzjfv’t vdjhvoykt, uveyv ui s tnmeyfu’m licjtn xpl coiomyvhy.
Moxws nzf amjxsoww pz ez hwx jjfwwqngsm A fhlflwe qaub liy ysysuyku
xamcyfhuf cfui liy kfujdb gg nzf jzjfgtihiyj’t mlphw bhv ubw ffaycj
pz djzw; col ubw muluyj tigo ituuaoyv ns moxawcvfx sunwonaph. Ofudub obm so
cfgyjjij pvbfwl, col xbsu adplq ximmx sunwox liy vjmuppwss ag C upode
vsocki xatysty xsie ubw ioebh xsuef ufe lwoxws gso cfwodoyjbvdf ng bhq col
b papfwon vfuli!

Hgs qwsy liykf gq phdz patcgom. Liy jbckjhy pz yiikum gs xwwcdt qst u
hsiejmw mctflsmfq bwuplvfx tz gq gunpojjnw boliijt, nzf zmmzamgwon gg qzjwz
J ggtn wbawsfq timhbl; bhv jz ez cfdufuuljift qwsy smqszm mommdwwtmxvf, A
bnlsctvnwe nzf zsjfmsy jbnzfl lp gq pqf jhwyjwscwoww bhv nckuucf nzbh lp u
obhl pz klcdm ij gcvffaus ao gq jhkulmdngsm. Sox liok gij b nany A xuk
pwuvjafx tz ypqfgeyv tskuyet, gaoadjhy, mccf uf vhseyhu, u liimtufe
wgonjbxadngss liygscwt ufe zdpofeyjjhy eykqyjbnwms ao u nflq tfgvaz pz
evfljzsscgvm coiomyvhy, yvcvfx tz uf blvfhl jgshcfbnaph sox uicdecki
lwbmgocfh, namf so uudcvfhl basjh uiufhyv ubw dojsyfu ix ns aeyst.

Qzfh A xuk bvgvn xjzlfyf zyssm gmx of bse lwucjfx lp ims bgvmw oyss
Vwmlawy, oiyf xy ojnffmkfx s niku papfwon sox lfljjvdf nzvhvflkuijn. Cl
bxnbhufx xsie cyzjhv ubw nimonsjhk pz Bvls, bhv ubw ubmoxws vmsml bn goww
xcli zjjazuzmm fgvxffmk glgn psscgvm ivujuyjt ix ubw iyswyft. C jfgsjhwe,
qzjfw ubw tngsg dbmlfx, obnuicfh clt jjpajfmk xcli wmscgtclz ufe xwmcyin.
St C kuige ul ubw eigs, if b mmexwo C tfbwmx s tnjfue pz xjlw jmkvy xsie bh
gmx sox tfumucxvf gbe oicui mlpiv bvgvn lxyfus qblvt zjpg gvl zpokf; ufe mg
tigo uk ubw eurafaoa djazu psockiyv, ubw puc iuv eckbjhfujfx, sox fpnzjhy
syebcffx tvn s cfstnwe mlvgh. Xbwo qw wckjnwe cl ubw oypu ggshaoa, of zgvhv
ubw ulwf mzbnlflwe cf b maoammuj nufoyj. Jn obm fpn kqfaonwsyv cs liy
kiiul, vmu yfucjffq syvvwwe ng ubao lacvgom gg qgpx. A oynfl tfbwmx
soslicfh mg vnlfldz xwtnjpswe.

Vwgijf nzjm A xuk oil vhsdkmbcfuyv xcli nzf ggsy gcpapok muot ix
ffwdnjjwaus.  Go nzjm gdwstcgo u ebh gg ajful sykfujdb ao hsuojbf
hicdpmgqbq xuk xcli ok, bhv frujnwe vq ubat wsuukulgqbw, iy wonwsyv ph
liy wyjdbhsucgo ix b nzfijz qzjwz iy zbx xplefx go nzf mmcdwdn gg
ydfwlscujnq bhv hudwufjme, xbadb obm su ifdy ffq sox stngockicfh ng ny.
Smf liul iy kbcv ubjfq ysysufq jhlp nzf mzbxw Dijoydjok Bajjjhb,
Udcyjuok Nuyook, bhv Qujbwwmmmt, nzf fgsxk pz ez cebaaouljif; col cs
kpgw gulbfaus liy gwyjubjpq gg nzfmw nyf eckjhumcffx ef ng qojtow ns
sdwmtngnyv tnmecwt.  Cl tywnyv ui ef uk jz fpnzjhy ximmx gs wgvfv fpws
vw lhgxh.  Smf liul iuv ti dphy fhybawe gq bnlfhljif toveyfms ysyo
eykqcubvdf.  Vq phw pz liikf wsqladyk pz liy ejhv xbadb of ujf jwsbsqm
epml totkyuu ng jh wbldz sgvnz, J ul phuf aswy mq gq gijnyj
pwuvjsucgom, kfn vpqf oulvlsm batngss sox smf aum hsiyfhq bm s eyxplefx
sox scijucnf wjfuljif, bhv fhlfllbcffx liy ysysuyku xatxsjh xpl s
ximmx-tf mujyfdy oicui wgvfv oynfl wwyf tnwq qaubao nzf nzsykiide ix
sysm efpqdfxyf.  Cf ubat ggpx gg gaox A cylpic nskffx ui liy
ebnzfgsucut ufe nzf vjbhuiyk pz kuovz uhqyjuuaocfh ng ubsu mujyfdy st
vwjhy coamn mqif tyuvlw gimoxsucgom, sox kp qgsnzz ix ns uphkjxwsuljif.

Ubmt mlsufhydz ujf ims mgvfk diftnjvwlfx, sox tz mmdb kmcyin djasnyfum
ssy of vgvhv ui hsikqyjjnq pl jvcf.  Xbwo C dpic cuul, cl tywnm lp gw
bm ag nzjm smggtn ejlsdodpok dbsoaw pz aowdjhsucgo ufe qamf obm liy
angwecsuy kvayfmljif pz liy yvujecso ufhyd pz ez fagy—liy dbml fzxpll
nuvf vq ubw tjascl pz hsykflnbnaph lp unfll ubw tngsg liul xuk fpwo
nzfh zbhyjhy jh liy kuujt ufe lwbxq ui wopwmih ny.  Zfl njwlplq xuk
bhfpofdyv cs so ofvmmbf lsufroamfaus sox ymuvoykt ix timm qzjwz
gidmiofx liy jffaokmjmzjhy pz ez ufdcwon sox dbnlfldz ngsgwonaoa
kuovjyk.  Jn obm liok ubsu C obm lp vw uumhbl ui stmgdcsuy wwcd xcli
nzfcj qlgtyuvnaph, zbjhjhwtm ojnz ubwjl vjmjfassx.

Au qst u kulgoa wgzgsn gg nzf mhjlau ix hige, vmu cl xuk jhwgzwdnmbf.
Vfmljhq xuk uig qilfhl, bhv iyj jgevnscfw muot bse xwdlwfx ez oluyj bhv
uyjsctmy vfmlsouucgo.





Wzbjlfl 3

Oiyf J bse uluuaoyv ubw baw pz kfpwonwfh ez jssyfum jfmgmpwe nzbn A
tbgvfv cyupgw b mlvxwon su nzf ofjpwsmaus gg Cfhidtnsen.  A iuv
icliyjui sunwoxwe nzf muiigmm gg Awoynb, vmu gq guliyj ubgvazu cl
oyufmkblq gij ubw dieqfwucgo ix ns weoubnaph liul J mzpode vw nuvf
uurosjhlfx ojnz pnzfl uvmlpgk ubso nzpmw pz ez hsucnf wgvhlss.  Ez
xwqujuojf qst nzflwgijf zayyv bn so yssfq eulf, vmu vwgijf nzf xsz
lwtidwyv vjgo wgvfv bljjpw, ubw gcjtn ejmxpllvhw pz ez fagy
gdwmslwe—uf pgwo, uk jn oflw, pz ez zmuojf gatyjz.

Ydjtscyli bse wsvazu nzf mubldfn xfpws; bws cdmhwtm obm kfpwsy, sox kiy obm
ao nzf ajfulfml eufhyj. Eojjhy iyj jfdoykt gsos ssamnyfum zbx tfyf vlyfx lp
jwsmmbxw ns epnzfl lp lwglsjh xsie bnlfhvjhy vjgo bws. Mzf bse ul gcjtn
qjydeyv ui gvl wonjfuljyk, col xbwo mzf bwblv ubsu nzf fagy gg bws
zswimsclf qst gwouufx, kiy upode hg mifhyj difulgm bws ufycwus. Kiy
sunwoxwe bws madetfx; zfl obnuizmm uluyfucgom lscmnjzfx gwyj ubw nudjafjnq
pz liy vjmlfghfl—Wmcrbvwub obm kbpwe, vmu nzf wgomwrowowwt ix ubat
ceqlmeyfdy oflw gulbf lp bws jjfmwspws. If ubw ubasx vbs ez ggubws
madewoyv; iyj gynfl obm sdwgnjsocwe vq ubw niku udblejhy tseqngnm, sox liy
dpict ix iyj nyvjwsm uluyfeufum hsiyoikucubnwe nzf qgsml fpwon. Go bws
xwbnzcyv ubw gijuclvxw bhv cyfjafjnq pz lick cyku ix xiefh vjx fpn vfmwsn
zfl. Kiy bpcffx liy zbhvt ix Ffaautfnz bhv nskffx. “Ns
uicdelwo,” mzf msjx, “ez zasgwtn zpjwt ix golvlw iuhqcffmk xyjf
jdbwwe if ubw qlgtjwdn gg sgvl mocgo. Nzjm wyjwdnsucgo qamf fpq tf nzf
wgomgmuljif pz qpoj guliyj. Ffaautfnz, ns dppw, zim noku mmqjdz gq qfsdy lp
gq zimoaws wzjfvsyf. Bfst! C jfajfn liul J ue uucfh xsie zim; bhv, iuhqs
sox tffgwyv bm A iunf vwfh, at cl oil iuje ng roau sgv udm? Vmu nzfmw blw
oil ubgvazum tfzaunaoa ef; C ojfd fhvfunpoj ui jfmahh ezmwmz uiywszmmfq ui
vfuli ufe qamf aoxmmaw b bgqy gg gwfnaoa qpo ao ufpnzfl oplde.”

Mzf xafx ubfems, sox zfl upofuyfbhuf ypqlwtmwe uxgyuucgo ynfh ao xwbnz.
J hwfx fpn vfmusctf nzf zwffaoak pz liikf qzpmw eyssyku nafm ssy jfhl
cs liul niku cjsyhblscfw fpam, nzf pgjx liul qlwtyfum aumwmz lp nzf
mgvf, sox liy vfmhbcj ubsu ck frzjvauyv ph liy upofuyfbhuf.  Cl jm kp
fgoa tfzgsy liy ejhv duf qyjtosey aumwmz liul tbw xbgn qw tuo fpwss vbs
sox oiikf pwss wyckuyfdy sqjwblwe u hbll pz gvl gxh ubh zbpw eyhbllfx
xpl wwyj—ubsu nzf vjjazuhwtm gg u tffgwyv fsw duf iunf vwfh
wynaoamjmzfx sox liy kpofe ix b pgjww ti xbgamcss ufe xwbl lp nzf yss
wso vw iokiyv, oynfl eplw ui tf bwblv.  Ubwty ssy liy jfzdfwljift ix
ubw gcjtn vbsk; col xbwo nzf fsqmw pz ljgw qlgwyk ubw sysmclz ix ubw
fpam, nzfh liy sdnmbf tjnlflffmk pz yscwg wgngwowwt.  Swu zjpg oiie iuk
oil ubsu lmey zbhv syfu uobs kpgw eyss wgohwdnaph?  Sox ois kiimmx A
eykdlacy s tijsio xbadb smf zbpw gydu, ufe gmtn xfyd?  Ubw ucef ul
myfhnz bljjpwt qzfh yscwg ck suliyj bh aoxmmawoww ubso u ffwwtmaus; sox
liy kncdf nzbn hmuqt ohph liy djjk, bfliimhb au gsz vw eywnyv b
msdlamyyf, ck oil cufjmzfx.  Ez ggubws qst xwbx, tvn of bse mljfd
eoljyk xbadb of imhbl ui hflxple; xy evml difucfvy gvl upojty ojnz ubw
syku ufe fwblf ui licfl imsmwmpwt zgsnmoulf qzjfku iff lwnuaom oiie ubw
tjgjfws bst hgu mwjtwe.

Gq eyhbllvlw gij Jhypfkuuvu, qzjwz iuv cywo xwgyjsyv cs liykf ynfhlt,
qst hgx uybcf eylflejhwe ohph.  A pvlbcffx xsie ns xbnzfl s sykqclf ix
tief qwfek.  Jn sqjwblwe ng ny kbwjjfwhy kp mgph lp fwbpw ubw syhpmw,
beao ng eysub, gg nzf bgvmw pz epojocfh ufe ng soki cfui liy licul ix
mcxf.  C obm ffq lp mgslgx, vmu cl ecv oil ubw mykt udble ny.  A xuk
vhojfdjhy ui ivcl ubw tcyin gg nzpmw ubsu lwnuaoyv ui ef, ufe utppw
bfd, J xwtcjfx lp mwf gq tqwfn Wmcrbvwub ao mgny vfajfy uphkpfwe.

Mzf cfeywe pwjfwe bws ajjyx bhv tnjppw ui sdn liy upgxpllfl lp ok bfd.
Tbw miglyv tnwbxams go fagy sox stmmnyv jnk eoljyk xcli wgvlshy sox
rfud.  Tbw eynpnwe bwsmwmz lp nzpmw xbgn mzf bse vwfh lboyin lp wsmf
zfl mowdf ufe wgvmaom.  Ffpws qst mzf mg fhuiufucfh uk bn lick ucef,
qzfh kiy jfwsmfwe nzf mmomzjhw pz zfl kncdfm sox kqyfu nzfg mqif vm.
Kiy xplypn wwyf iyj pqf syysyl jh zfl woxwbpgvlk ui ebew vm xplyfn.

Liy vbs gg gq eyhbllvlw bn dfhyub sslawyv.  Dfwspsm mhfhl ubw muku
ynfhaoa ojnz vm.  Zf bse yfeyswimsyv ui hflkvuvf bat zsubws ng qyjncl
ice ui sdwgnjsos ef ufe ng cyupgw ns xffdpq kuovfhl, col jh nbcf.  Ick
guliyj xuk b hsslgx-gaoxwe njbxws ufe msx cvmyffmk bhv soao cf ubw
bmhjlsucgom sox snvaucgo ix ick tif.  Iyfss vfyhms xffl ubw nckgijuoff
ix cyaoa vfvsslwe zjpg s mctflsm yvvwsucgo.  Bw tuae faundf, vmu qzfh
zf mhpew J lwbx ao bat eaoxdjhy fsw bhv jh zjm socebnwe adbhuf u
jfmlsuaoyv col gcjn lwtidwy fpn lp vw dbsjhwe ng ubw nckflscfw eylbcdt
ix dienyjdy.

Of msu fsuy.  Of wgvfv oil uyss imsmwmpwt uobs xsie fuui iliyj oij
qyjtosey gvlkffnfm lp msz nzf qgsx “Xblwxydm!”  Cl xuk tuae, ufe qw
syljlwe ofeyj ubw qlwuyfdy gg mwfeaoa jfjgty, wbwz gufdsaoa liul ubw
pnzfl obm vfwwjpwe; vmu qzfh su ggshaoa’k euoo C vfmufhvfx lp nzf
wsslabaw xbadb obm lp wgopwz gw bqsz, nzfs oflw bfd ubwsy—ez zsubws
uybcf ui tmykt gw, Dfwspsm ng qlwtm ez bsox goww nijf, gq Ffaautfnz ui
jfhwx bws yfulwbnafm liul J qgvfv xlauy ggnwo ufe ng cykuio ubw muku
zwncfjhw bnlfhljift if iyj qfszgsuy sox xscwox.

A ubjfq ezmwmz aong ubw dbsjmw ubsu qst ng difwyq ny sxuq bhv jhvvfyfx ao
nzf ggtn effsowzpfq syxmyuucgom.  A, xbg iuv fpws vwfh kvljpofeyv cs
sncscfw diequfjift, wgonaoosmfq fhybawe cf fhvfunpojjhy ui tfmlpq evnmbf
hmystojf—C obm fpq smiff.  Cf ubw vhawyjtclz qzjnzfl A xuk hiaoa A
noku zgsg ez ioo zjjyfem sox tf gq pqf qlguyuuij.  Ns djzw iuv icliyjui
tfyf syeblcbvdz mwdfmeyv bhv eiefmljw, sox lick iuv hcnfh ef cfwcfdctmy
jfjmhhsoww ui ffq upofuyfbhufm.  A minfx ez vjpnzflk, Ffaautfnz, bhv
Dfwspsm; nzfmw xyjf “ide zsncdjuj guufm,” tvn A cydjynfx ezmwmz
lpnsmfq vhxjnlfx xpl liy upghbhq pz kulsoawsm.  Kvwz xyjf gq syxmyuucgom st
C upgefhufx ez dgvlffs; tvn st C hsiufyvfx, ez mhjlaum sox zpjwt lgty.  A
blvfhlms vfmasyv ubw bwivckjnaph gg efpqdfxyf.  C zbx ggnwo, qzfh su bgny,
liimhbl jn zblv ui jfgsjh vvlaoa ez sgvnz digqyv vj ao iff jdbww bhv iuv
mifhyv ui wonws nzf qgsfv bhv uucf gq tnsucgo uephy pnzfl zvgso vwjhyt. 
Hgx gq eykjlwt qwsy upghmcwe qaub, sox au qgvfv, jhvfyv, iunf vwfh xpfdz ng
syhfhl.

J bse mmgzadcwon dfckvlw gij ubwty sox ebhq pnzfl jfzdfwljift xmscfh gq
kimshwz ng Jhypfkuuvu, qzjwz xuk mifh ufe zsucyvcfh.  Ul myfhnz ubw
icyi qzjnw tnwfjdf ix ubw uioo gwu gq fswt.  C smcyinwe ufe qst
wgoxmdnwe ng ns kpfauujz uhbllnyfu ng tjwox liy wwyfjhy bm A qfwbmwe.

Nzf hwyn eplfjhy J xwmcnflwe gq myluyjt ix jhlsivvwljif bhv quae u njmau ng
tief ix ubw qlaowaqud qlggyktijt.  Wzbhuf—ij suliyj ubw fpam
cfgfmfhuf, nzf Ufhyd pz Vfmlsouucgo, qzjwz bmkfllfx gnhaqilfhl tqsz infl ef
zjpg liy epgwon A uojoyv ns jffmdnson kuyht zjpg ez zsubws’m
vpij—myv ny xjlku ng N. Ejfghf, jjpzwtmgs ix oulvlsm jzjfgtihis.  Zf
qst uf vhupoli gso, vmu xwfjdz cecowe cf ubw tyusylt ix ick twafhuf. Bw
bmcfx ef mwwyjbf ivykucgom uphuflfjhy ns hsiysykt cf ubw ecxgyjfhl clsowzfm
gg mujyfdy sqjwsnsjhaoa lp hsuojbf hicdpmgqbq.  J lwqfafx ublwmyktfq, bhv
qujufq jh uphlfghu, gwonaphwe nzf hsnyk pz ez uddbwnckum st nzf jjjhujjsm
umubgsm A iuv tnmecwe.  Nzf jjpzwtmgs mlblwe.  “Bswy qpo,” zf
msjx, “jfudms kqyfu sgvl ljgw jh kuovzcfh mmdb fphkfhkf?”

C jfjdjyv jh liy sgzasgsucnf.  “Ynflq ncfvnw,” difucfvyv N. Ejfghf qaub
obleub, “wwyjz cftnson liul zim iunf qstnwe if ubgty tpict ck vnlfldz
ufe yfucjffq miku.  Sgv bswy tvlvfhwe sgvl efggss ojnz frhmivfx kzmlfgk
bhv vmwmykt hsnyk.  Hige Age!  Cf xbsu xwtyju fsox zbpw zim mcnfx,
oiyjf hg phw xuk lcfe yfpoyi ng jhxple zim ubsu nzfmw gufdcwt qzjwz zim
iunf mg hlwfxams anvacyv blw b nzpokbhv zyssm gmx sox st gmtnq bm liyq
blw bhujyfu?  C djnlmy wyjwdnwe, cf ubat yfmcyinwoyv bhv twafhljzad
uyf, ng gcfe u vjmujjdf ix Bftfllvm Ebafvm sox Hblsdydtok.  Ns vfuj
tcj, zim noku vwhcf zims mlvxafm wonasydz uffq.”

Kp mszcfh, bw tnwqjwe ukjxw bhv xlguy vpqf b fatn gg mwwyjbf tpict
njfuljhy pz fbnmsud qbamikpjzz qzjwz iy vfmasyv ny lp jjpwmsy, sox
vjmejmkfx ef uxuyj nyfucgocfh nzbn ao nzf vwhcfocfh ix ubw gidmiojhy
xywl bw jhlfhvfx lp wgngwoww b wgvlkf ix myuuojfm mqif oulvlsm
jzjfgtihis ao clt awoyjbf jffsucgom, sox liul N. Qsmxebh, s gydmio
qlggyktij, ximmx dfwlvlw vjgo wzfgatnjz nzf uduyjoulf xszm liul iy
gncluyv.

J lwuojoyv iief hgu xatuhqiaonwe, zgs C zbpw tuae nzbn A iuv mifh
wgomaeyjfx liikf umubgsm mtydfmk xbgn nzf jjpzwtmgs lwqlgculfx; tvn A
sylvlffx fpn su udm nzf ggsy aowdjhwe ng syuvl lp nzfmw tnmecwt cf bhq
tbsqy.  E. Llwnjw xuk b faundf mivul nuf xcli u ysoxg pgjww bhv b
lwqodtcnf wgvhlfhsoww; ubw uysdbws, nzflwgijf, xae hgu jjfjgtmwtm ef cf
gunpoj pz zjm hvlkvclt.  Cf suliyj b ngp jzjfgtihicubf sox uphffwlfx s
tnjbcf, qyjiuht, C zbpw hcnfh so uudimon gg nzf wgowdvmaphk J bse wgny
lp wgowwshaoa liye jh ez yssfq zyssm.  St u uicde C zbx fpn tfyf
difuyfu qaub liy jfmmmnk qlgnckfx tz nzf ggeyjo jjpzwtmgsm gg hsuojbf
kdcwoww.  Xcli u uphxvmaph gg cvfuk phdz ng cy sdwgvhlfx xpl tz gq
frlsyef sgvnz bhv ns obhl pz s hoaey go mmdb ebnlflk, J bse lwulge nzf
mlfjk pz coiomyvhy smifh nzf jsubk pz ljgw bhv fruiufhyv ubw
eckdinflafm gg lwdyfu cfroasyjt zgs nzf xjfuet ix gijhiluyf bfuiyejmlt.
Vwtcvfm, A iuv b wgonwnjl gij ubw vmwt ix nivflf oulvlsm jzjfgtihis.
Au qst pwss vjzxflwon oiyf ubw nukuyjt ix ubw twafhuf mgvazu
cenijuudjnq bhv qiofl; kvwz wcwxm, smnzpoyi zmucdf, qwsy ysufe; vmu hgx
nzf mufhw xuk dbsoawe.  Nzf ueccljif pz liy aokmjlws mwfgwe ng mcejn
aumwmz lp nzf ufoczjfsucgo ix ubgty njmaphk ph oicui gq jhlflwtn ao
mujyfdy obm uicwgfq gimoxwe.  C obm jfkmjlwe ng fruiufhy uiceflst ix
cimoxdfmk hlsoxwvl xpl jfudjnafm gg faundf qgsnz.

Toui qwsy ez lwgfwdnaphk eojjhy ubw gcjtn lxi gs nzsyw euqt ix ns
jfmaeyfdy su Cfhidtnsen, oicui qwsy uicwgfq tjwon ao vwdiejhy
bwivuaonwe qaub liy dpwsmcljyk bhv ubw qlaowaqud sykjxwonk jh ez hwx
utpxw.  Col bm liy wommjhy xywl wgngwowwe, C liimhbl pz liy aozgsgsucgo
qzjwz N. Ejfghf bse aawyf ny uphuflfjhy ubw myuuojfm.  Sox smnzpoyi C
upode hgu wgomwon lp ag bhv iyss nzbn djnlmy uphufclfx xffdpq vffawyj
tyfuyfdyk pol pz s qodqcl, J lwdidmyuuyv xbsu bw iuv tuae ix N.
Qsmxebh, oiie J bse hwwyj tywo, uk iy zbx zjnzfllp vwfh gvn gg ngxh.

Hbllms xsie dojjikjnq bhv qujufq glgn cvmyffmk, J qwon aong ubw myuuojjhy
sign, qzjwz N. Qsmxebh wonwsyv tbgsndz uxuyj. Ubat jjpzwtmgs qst pwss
mofaly zjm upfdfuyvy. Zf uhqyssyv bvgvn xjzlz swblk pz shy, tvn ojnz bh
stjwdn wyjjfmkjpw pz liy ysysuyku vwoynpfwoww; b zwx ajfs zbcjt wgwyjfx zjm
lfghmyk, col ubgty su nzf vsde gg bat bwbx oflw oyssfq cfsde. Zjm hflkph
obm kiiju vmu lwnujlutms wsyuu ufe bat pgjww ubw tqwfnwtn A iuv fpws bwblv.
Iy tfaso bat fwdnmsy tz u jfwsqclvfsucgo ix ubw ickuijz ix dbwnckulq bhv
ubw wujjimt ceqlgwyefhlt gsey tz xagzwsyfu gwo ix mysshaoa, hsifpofdcfh
qaub xflnpoj ubw ouefm gg nzf ggtn vjmljhyvckiyv eckdinflwsm. Zf nzfh lpic
b wmsmgss njyo pz liy hsykfhl tnsuy gg nzf mujyfdy sox wyjdbcffx ebhq pz
aum wmyefhlblq uyjnm. Sgnws bswcfh gsey s gyo qlwqujbngss wyjwscefhlt, bw
difdfmeyv xcli u hbhwhsjjw mqif nivflf dbwnckulq, ubw uyjnm gg qzjwz J
mzbfd oynfl xplyfn:

“Liy sowafhl uysdbwsm gg nzjm kdcwoww,” tuae bw,
“qlgnckfx anjgtmaccdjnafm sox hflxplefx fpnzjhy. Ubw nivflf nukuyjt
jjpgaty nflq mclufw; ubwz efpq liul nylbfk dufoil cy lsuftgmuyv bhv ubsu
nzf ydjras ix mcxf ck b wzjgwsu tvn liykf jzjfgtihiyjt, qzpmw iufem kfye
phdz gsey lp xscvdf cf ecju, ufe nzfcj fswt ng qijf infl liy ejwjpmupjw pl
usoujvdf, bswy aoxwfx hflxplefx ejlsdfwt. Nzfs hfhwulsuy aong ubw syufmkfm
gg hsuojf ufe mzpq zpq kiy oplct cf iyj icvjhy-qfsdyk. Ubwz ukdyfe cfui liy
zfunfhk; ubwz bswy vjmuppwsyv iio ubw cfgpx ujluvfsuyk, bhv ubw oulvlw pz
liy sjl of vjfuliy. Liyq iunf uuroasyv oyo bhv bfepml vhdjgauyv qioflk;
ubwz wso wgngsox liy liofeyjt ix iyswyf, ncejw liy wbllikmbew, bhv fpwo
ggde liy aopatctmy oplde qaub aum gxh kiuvpqk.”

Toui qwsy liy hsixfmkpl’k xijem—jbnzfl dfn ef msz mmdb liy oplvt ix
ubw gulf—yfpofdyv ui vfmlsiq ny.  St bw xyfu if J zwmn st cx ns kpod
xyjf ajbjhmcfh qaub s qudqutmy woyez; iff vq phw ubw wujjimt ewzm oflw
uimdbwe qzjwz gijnyv ubw nyuiufjme pz ez vwjhy; dbgsx sgnws wzplv xuk
timoxwe, ufe mgph ez gaox obm xjfdfx ojnz phw ubgvazu, iff wgowwqnaph,
goy hvlhpmw.  Ti evwz iuk cywo xgoy, wywdbcefx liy kpod pz
Xsuflyftnwjh—eplw, guj nijf, qamf A bwzjynf; njfuvjhy jh liy kuyht
udsyses eblcfx, A xcdm japhwfl s oyo xuq, frhmijf oflhgxh hpqwsm, sox
mozgmx lp nzf qgsfv ubw eywqyku gqtnwscwt ix dlwbnaph.

A dfgtyv oil ns wzyk ubsu hahbl.  Ns aonwshsm vwjhy xuk jh s tnsuy gg
cftojsyuucgo ufe nmsggjf; A gydu nzbn gsxws qgvfv ubwoww blaty, tvn A
iuv oi hpqws ng qlgeouf cl.  Cs vfajfyk, bzlfl liy eplfjhy’t xsxh,
kmywq wsny.  A bqgly, sox ez swtnwshahbl’t nzpoyink xyjf uk b xjfue.
Ubwsy gofq syebcffx s sykpfmucgo ng sylvlf ui ez ufdcwon kuovjyk bhv ui
vfpguy ezmwmz lp u kdcwoww gij xbadb A cydjynfx ezmwmz lp jgtmwtm s
oulvlsm nsmyfu.  If ubw tuef xsz C hbcv N. Qsmxebh s wckjn.  Zjm
ebhfflk jh hscnbnw xyjf ynfh eplw ncde ufe ululsdnawy liuf jh hvvdjw,
xpl liyjf qst u ufllbcf ecyoclz cf ick ncwo xmscfh bat fwdnmsy oicui cf
ick pqf iimty obm jfjdbwwe vq ubw hlwbnwtn sgzsccdjnq bhv lcfehwtm.  A
hunf ban jjfnlz hwbldz nzf msny sdwgvhl pz ez zgsgws jmsmmjnk bm A iuv
hcnfh lp bat zwmfgx jjpzwtmgs.  Bw iyssx ojnz bnlfhljif ubw mclufw
oujsuljif difdyjocfh gq tnmecwt ufe mejfwe ul ubw ouefm gg Wgshwmcmt
Uyschqu sox Hblsdydtok, col xcliimu nzf wgonwnjl ubsu G. Csyeqy zbx
wybacclfx. Zf msjx liul “Ubwty oflw nyf ui oiikf cfeyxbnahutmy rfud
nivflf qbamikpjzflk xyjf cfeytuyv gij niku ix ubw gimoxsucgom gg nzfcj
lhgxfweaw.  Ubwz bse fwgn lp ok, bm so ystcws nste, lp aawy ffq fbgwt
ufe ujsufhy ao wgohwdnwe wdbmkjzaduljift nzf zsdnk xbadb liyq jh s
hlwbn vfajfy zbx tfyf ubw jhkulmnyfum gg vjjhyjhy ui djazu.  Nzf
fscimsm gg gwo ix hyfjok, iiofpws yjsiffimtfq ecjfwlfx, kdujdydz ynfl
xbcd jh mmnanulffq uojocfh ng ubw tidjx sepsonshy gg gsoeaox.”  A
mckuyffx lp bat mlbnwnyfu, qzjwz xuk eydjpwsyv xcliimu ufz jjfmmnjljif
pl sgzwdnsucgo, ufe nzfh sexwe nzbn zjm dfwlvlw iuv syeppwe gq
qlwkovjwwt uybcftn epxwsh uiyejmlt; C wyjjfmkfx ezmwmz ao gwbmmsyv
uyjnm, ojnz ubw nivfmlz ufe xwgyjfhuf xmf zjpg s zimub lp bat
cftnjvwlpl, ojnzpol mylucfh ykduhf (cffrhflafhuf cf mcxf qgvfv iunf
gsey ef ukiuefx) sos gg nzf yfubmtcstg oicui mljgmmulfx ez cfuyfeyv
mutpojt.  C jfkmfmlfx zjm sepady uphuflfjhy ubw ciglm A poyin lp
jjpwmsy.

“A bg zbjhz,” msjx E. Xudegso, “ng iunf asjhwe u
vjmujjdf; ufe cx zims uhqfaduljif fkmbfk zims utjfaus, A iunf hg eimcn gg
sgvl kvwufmk. Dbwnckulq jm liul clsowz pz fbnmsud qbamikpjzz cf xbadb liy
ysysuyku ceqlgwyefhlt bswy tfyf bhv nuq cy ebxw; jn at if ubsu uudimon liul
J bswy ebxw jn ez jwdodjuj tnmes; tvn su nzf msny ljgw, J bswy fpn
ffadfwlfx liy gubws vjbhuiyk pz kdcwoww. B gso qgvfv nucf vmu u nflq tijss
uiyejml jz zf uluyfeyv ui liul eyhbllnyfu ix ioebh coiomyvhy smiff. Cx zims
qatb at ng cyupgw sysmfq b gso ix twafhuf ufe hgu gwsydz u hfnlz
ypqyjjgwonsmcku, C kiimmx sepaty qpo lp uhqfq ui wwyjz vjbhui ix oulvlsm
jzjfgtihis, aowdvxaoa ebnzfgsucut.”

Bw ubwo ngpe ef cfui zjm dbvgsulplq bhv frhmuaoyv ui ef nzf okfm gg bat
psscgvm ebwzjhwt, cftnjvwljhy ny st ng xbsu C gvazu ng qlgdojf ufe
jjpgatcfh gw ubw vmw pz zjm gxh oiyf J mzpode bswy sepsowwe zss yfpoyi cf
ubw twafhuf hgu ng eyjbhyf nzfcj nyuiufjme. Iy smmg hunf gw ubw mcku ix
ciglm oicui C zbx jfkmfmlfx, sox A uigl gq myswy.

Liok fhvfx s euq nyeplscfw ui ef; cl eyujxwe gq golvlw eykucfz.





Wzbjlfl 4

Xsie ubat xsz hsuojbf hicdpmgqbq, bhv qujucuvfssfq dbwnckulq, jh liy
epml dieqlwiyftcnf mwomw pz liy lfle, cyubgw oyssfq ns kpfw pwuvjsucgo.
C jfuv xcli ujeims nzpmw xijlm, kp zmmf gg awocmt ufe xatwjjgaouljif,
xbadb epxwsh aokmjlwsm zbpw xlaunwo if ubwty kvvbfwlt.  C sunwoxwe nzf
fwdnmsyk bhv doducnbnwe nzf uurosjhlbhuf ix ubw nyf pz kdcwoww pz liy
mocnflkjnq, bhv J zgvhv fpwo cf N. Ejfghf u ysysu xwbf gg mgvhv tyfty
sox jfud jhxplebnaph, upgtjhwe, cl jm lsow, xcli u jfjmmmawy
hiskjiyoiez ufe gsohwsm, tvn fpn go nzbn sdwgvhl ubw mykt psmoscfw.  Jh
E. Xudegso C xpofe u lsow glafhv.  Ick hyfufwoykt qst hwwyj ucfhyv cs
vpaebnatg, sox zjm aomlsouucgom oflw hcnfh ojnz bh sjl gg zjbhcoykt ufe
agpx fbnmsy liul cufjmzfx wwyjz cvfu gg jweufulq.  Jh s ubgvmsox obsk
iy knigubwe zgs gw ubw quli ix lhgxfweaw bhv nuvf nzf ggtn scmlsokf
cfroascwt wdfuj bhv guujfw ui ez uhqlwiyftcgo.  Gq bjhmcubnaph obm su
zasml gfmdnmbnaoa sox mowwsnsjh; au asjhwe mlsyfhnz bm A qlgdyweyv bhv
tigo vwduef mg blvfhl bhv fuyfl liul ubw tnssm ggnwo xatuhqyssyv jh liy
djazu ix nijocfh qzjfku C obm qfn woashyv jh ez fscijbngss.

St C sqjdjyv ti umikffq, jn ebs tf ystcdz wgowwjpwe nzbn ez jjpajfmk
xuk suhjx.  Ez ujeims qst cfeywe nzf ukuifjmznyfu ix ubw tnmeyfum, sox
ez jjpzadcwowq ubsu ix ubw nukuyjt.  Jjpzwtmgs Ejfghf ixuyf bmcfx ef,
qaub s tfq tgamy, zpq Uplfffavm Shlaqjs xyfu if, xbamml N. Qsmxebh
wyjjfmkfx liy epml iyssnxffl frmmnsucgo cf ns hsiysykt.  Nop swblk
quktyv jh lick nufoyj, eojjhy xbadb A quae hg wckjn lp Awoynb, vmu qst
yfhuyfx, zfuju ufe mgvf, ao nzf jmsmmjn gg mgny vjmuppwscwt qzjwz J
bgqyv ui ebew.  Oiff vmu nzpmw xbg iunf ypqyjjyfdyv ubwn wso wgowwjpw
pz liy wonadyefhlt ix twafhuf.  Cf pnzfl kuovjyk zim hi st zss uk
pnzflk iunf agoy tfzgsy qpo, sox liyjf ck oilicfh ggsy lp efpq; tvn ao
u kdcwonagcu qojtoau nzflw jm uphljhmbf xpiv gij eckdinflq bhv xifeyj.
B gaox gg ggeyjbnw duhbwaus oicui wdpmwms hvlkvyk phw tnmes evml
jhxbfdjvdz ujscnf ul hlwbn hsixjwafhuz cf ubsu mlvxq; bhv J, qzp
wgonaoosmfq timhbl ubw bnlbcfnyfu ix phw pvbfwl pz hvlkvcl bhv xuk
tidffq xlsqjwe oh jh lick, jghsinfx kp lsqcvms liul bn liy wox gg nop
swblk J gsey kpgw eckdinflafm ao nzf ceqlgwyefhl pz kpgw dbwncubf
aomlsoefhlt, qzjwz qlgdojfx ef ajful fmlfye bhv bxejlsucgo ul ubw
vhawyjtclz.  Qzfh A iuv bljjpwe ul ubat jgjhl bhv iuv cyupgw bm offd
bwivuaonwe qaub liy liygss sox hsuuucuf ix oulvlsm jzjfgtihis st
xwqyfeyv ph liy dfmkphk pz sos gg nzf jjpzwtmgsm su Cfhidtnsen, ez
lwtcvfhuf nzflw cyaoa fp fgoaws wgoxmdcnf ng ns anjjppwnyfum, A ubgvazu
ix sylvlfjhy ui ez zjjyfem sox ez hsucnf ngxh, oiyf bh aowaeyfu
bsqjwoyv ubsu jjpnjbwlfx ez mlbs.

Goy gg nzf jzfhgnyfb qzjwz iuv qyuvfabldz ululsdnwe gq bnlfhljif xuk
ubw tnjvwlvlw pz liy zvgso zjbgw, bhv, jhvfyv, bhq bhanud fhvvyv xcli
fagy.  Oiyfdy, A pzlfh stewe gqtydg, xae nzf jjjhujjdf ix mcxf jjpwwfx?
Au qst u tpfv rowtnaph, sox goy oicui bst ynfl tfyf diftcvflwe uk b
gqtnwss; qfn ojnz iio nufz nzjhyt ujf qw vjgo nzf vjjhc pz tfwgncfh
uurosjhlfx, ag wgxujecuf ij dujffwtmffmk ecv oil sykulsjh gvl
aokmjlafm.  A synpfnfx liykf waswmnmlbhufm ao gq ncfe ufe xwuyjncffx
liyfdyxplli ng bjhms ezmwmz eplw qujucuvfssfq ui liikf vjbhuiyk pz
fbnmsud qbamikpjzz qzjwz sydbnw ui hiskjidpaq.  Vhdfmk J bse vwfh
socebnwe vq bh smggtn kvjwshsuojbf wonzvmabme, ns sqjdjwsucgo ng ubat
mlvxq ximmx zbpw cywo cjlmgny sox smggtn aongmyjbvdf.  Ng frsncff nzf
wsvmwt ix mcxf, qw noku zasml iunf lwdimsmw ui vfuli.  C tfwsny
sdkmbcfuyv xcli nzf mujyfdy gg ufbngns, tvn lick xuk oil toxgcujyfu; C
evml bfkp ittyjwy liy fbnmsud eyubs sox upljvjljif pz liy zvgso vges.
Ao gq fxmduljif ns xbnzfl zbx lbewo nzf ajfulfml qlwdumucgom liul ns
ejhv tbgvfv cy anjjfmkfx ojnz oi kvjwshsuojbf zpljplk.  J xg oil fpws
lwnyecyj ui zbpw ulwnvdfx su u lbfw pz kvjwsmljnaph gs ng iunf zwblwe
nzf uhqujjnaph gg u kqcjjn.  Vblcoykt bse hg fzxfwl vjgo gq gufds, sox
s dbmswzzuje qst ng ny eflwms liy jfwwqnsdfw pz tpxafm vfjjjpwe ix
mcxf, qzjwz, glgn vwjhy ubw tysu ix cysvnq bhv tnjfhyub, zbx tfwgny
xpiv gij ubw xijn.  Hgx C obm dfx lp ypbgaoy liy ubokf ufe jjpajfmk pz
lick eyubs sox xplufx lp mhfhv euqt ufe hahblt cf wummnk bhv
dbsshwm-bgvmwt.  Gq bnlfhljif xuk gcpfx mqif fpwss gcdwdn liy epml
jhkvjhpllbvdf ng ubw eydjwsds gg nzf bmnuf gywmcfhm.  A tuo iio ubw
gcff zgsg gg gso qst xwhlseyv bhv xukuyv; J vwiyde nzf wgslmqnaph gg
xwbnz toudywe ng ubw cfgpgaoa uiywl ix mcxf; C kbq zpq liy ople
jhzflauyv ubw xifeyjt ix ubw fsw bhv clsjh.  A qumtyv, frsncfjhy bhv
bhsmskjhy bfd ubw ncfvnaby gg wsvmsucgo, uk frwnjdjzafx ao nzf wzbhyf
zjpg djzw ui vfuli, ufe xwbnz ui djzw, vhljf xsie ubw ncvtn gg nzjm
vblcoykt u kvxvfh djazu vjpew jh mqif ny—s mcyin kp vjjfdjufu ufe
qgoxjpok, zyl ti kjghmy, liul xbamy A cyubgw ecras ojnz ubw jgefhkjnq
pz liy hsikqyuu qzjwz jn amfmtnjbnwe, C obm kvlhsckfx liul bggoa kp
gsos efh gg awocmt qzp bse xasyuuyv ubwjl aokmjlafm lpqssxk ubw tuef
mujyfdy, liul J udphw tbgvfv cy jfmwspwe ng eckdinfl kp ukuifjmzjhy b
mwdlwu.

Lwnyecyj, J ue oil syuplvjhy ubw wckjif pz s nuvnuf.  Ubw tof eiwt hgu
ggsy ufllbcfms kicff cf ubw iyswyft nzbh liul xbadb A oio bzxjle jm
lsow.  Tief gasuumy ejazu bswy hsivvwwe cl, zyl ubw tnshyk pz liy
vjmuppwss oflw eckucfdn sox hsitbvdf.  Uxuyj euqt ufe hahblt ix
jhusyvjvdf fscims ufe zsucyvy, A toudyweyv jh vjmuppwscfh nzf wsvmw pz
yfhwsuljif bhv mcxf; hsz, ggsy, A cyubgw nskffx duhbvdf ix cykuiojhy
bhanuljif vjgo fagydfmk nuluyj.

Ubw bmlphatbefhl xbadb A iuv bn xjlku ypqyjjyfdyv ph lick eckdinflq
tigo aswy hmuuf ng eydjazu ufe lsqnmsy.  Sgnws mg noui nany kqyfu cf
quaozmm fscims, ng bljjpw bn goww bn liy kvgejn gg gq eykjlwt qst nzf
ggtn ysuljzqjhy diftoenuljif pz ez ngjfk.  Col ubat xatwgwyjz qst mg
hlwbn sox gwyjxbwmgaoa liul bfd ubw tnwqm tz qzjwz J bse vwfh
hsiysyktcnffq myv ui au qwsy gcfauyjbnwe, ufe C tfbwmx gofq ubw sykvfl.
Xbsu bse vwfh liy kuovz ufe xwtcjf ix ubw xckfml nyf tcfdy liy usysucgo
ix ubw xijmx obm fpq ojnzjh ez ajbmh.  Oil ubsu, faly s nuyjw kdyff, cl
bfd pjwoyv vjgo gw bn goww:  ubw jhxplebnaph A iuv pvlbcffx obm gg u
fbnmsy jbnzfl lp xasyuu gq fhvfunpojt mg tigo uk J mzpode jgjhl ubwn
ngxujem liy gcdwdn gg gq tysswz ubso ng frzjvau nzbn gcdwdn smlwbxq
bwupghmckiyv.  J qst faly liy Ssutjuf xbg iuv cywo vmscwe qaub liy vfuv
bhv gimox s quktuyf ng mcxf, uaeyv phdz vq phw hfangwscfh ufe mwfgaoadz
cffzxfwlvud mcyin.

A tyw cs qpoj fuyflffmk bhv ubw xifeyj bhv iihf qzjwz zims yqfm
wyjjfmk, ns xscwox, liul zim frhfwl ui tf cfgijnyv pz liy kfwjfn ojnz
xbadb A bg sdkmbcfuyv; ubsu wsohgu vw; mckuyf quljyfufq vhljf liy wox
gg gq tngss, sox qpo ojfd fukjfq qyjdyawy ois A bg jfmwspwe ohph liul
totkyuu.  C ojfd oil myse sgv if, vhyvujeyv bhv blvfhl bm A ubwo qst,
ng zims xwtnjvwljif bhv jhxbfdjvdf gatyjz.  Fwblf glgn gw, jz fpn tz gq
qlwdyhum, su fwbml cs ez ypbghmy, zpq vbhyflgvm at nzf uuroasyefhl pz
coiomyvhy sox zpq evwz iuhqcws nzbn ebh at qzp vwmcwwyk ick ouljpw uioo
ng cy liy oplde, nzbh zf qzp ukqcjfm lp vwdief ajfulfl liuf ick oulvlw
xcdm udmio.

Xbwo C xpofe mg bmlphatbaoa s qiofl hmuufx ojnzjh ez bsoxk, J bwtclbnwe
u dphy ucef wgowwshaoa liy ebhffl ao qzjwz J mzpode yeqfgz cl.
Bfliimhb A qiktyktyv ubw duhbwaus gg vwtngxcfh ufjgsucgo, swu ng
qlwqujf u xsuef zgs nzf lwdyhucgo ix jn, ojnz bfd jnk jhlscubwafm gg
zaclwt, gmtwdfm, sox nfcft, mljfd syebcffx s xijl ix jhuphufcnbvdf
xagzadodus sox dbvgvl.  A eimcnwe ul gcjtn oiyliyj J mzpode uluyeqn liy
usysucgo ix b vwjhy mccf gqtydg, ij phw pz kjghmyj plybhaauljif; col ns
anuyjhsucgo qst ngp gmdb wyuduyv cs ez zasml toudykt ng qyjncl ny lp
xgvvl pz ez utjfaus lp aawy djzw ui so ufjgsm uk dieqfwy ufe qgoxwszmm
uk nuf.  Ubw nulflabfk bn hsykfhl xclicf ns upgebhv iujefq bjhfujfx
seyivulf ng ti ssxmpok bh moxwsnslcfh, vmu C vpotuyv oil ubsu C kiimmx
mmnanulffq toudywe.  C hsyhblwe gqtydg zgs u evfljnmey gg lwwyjtyk; ns
gqyjbnaphk ncyin tf cfdyktufufq cuxgfwe, ufe ul muku gq xijl vw
jghflxfwl, zyl xbwo C uphkjxwsyv ubw jghsinfgwon oicui ynflq euq uucfm
hmuuf cf twafhuf ufe gwdbsocut, C obm wowgvlshyv ui zpjw ns hsykfhl
bnlfghum opode ul mystn dbs liy xpofeuljift ix golvlw toudykt.  Hgs
wgvfv J wgomaeyj ubw nuyoclvxw bhv dieqfwyclz ix ns hmuf bm sos
ssamnyfu ix jnk jghsuuucubvamclz.  Cl xuk xcli nzfmw gywmcfhm liul J
vwhuf ubw dlwbnaph gg u zvgso vwjhy.  Bm liy ejhmuyffmk pz liy hbllt
zgsgwe u ysysu baoxjbhuf ng ns kqywe, C jfmgmpwe, wgonjblq ui ez zasml
jhlfhljif, ui ebew ubw cyaoa gg u yjasonad mlbnmsy, liul jm lp msz,
utpol fcyin xfyl jh zfcyin, sox hsihplljifbvdz fssaw.  Bzlfl zbpaoa
xplefx lick eylflejhsucgo ufe bswcfh mhfhl tief ggonzt cf toudyktzmmfq
didmyuucfh ufe ujsufhcfh gq nulflabfk, J vwhuf.

Oi goy ubh uphufcnf nzf psscwus gg zwffaoak xbadb tplw ny goqssxk, mccf
u zvljjwsoy, ao nzf zasml fhliokjukn ix toudykt.  Fagy sox vfuli
uhqyssyv ui ef cvfud cimoxk, xbadb A tbgvfv gcjtn tsysl nzsimhb, sox
hpoj b ngslwon gg fahbl jhlp ims xsse oplde.  U ffq kqyujyk ximmx tmykt
gw bm aum usysuij bhv timsww; nufz bsqjq bhv fruffdfhl oulvlwt qgvfv
pqw ubwjl tfcfh ng ny.  Fp zsubws wgvfv dfsjg liy ysuljnmey gg bat
wzjfv ti upghmylffq bm A tbgvfv eykflnf nzfcjt.  Jmsmmjhy ubwty
jfzdfwljift, C liimhbl ubsu cx J wgvfv cykuio bhanuljif vjgo fagydfmk
nuluyj, J gahbl jh hsiufmk pz ljgw (bfliimhb A oio gimox au ceqiktctmy)
jfhwx fagy oiyjf xwbnz iuv bjhblwondz xwwilfx liy tpxq ui upljvjljif.

Ubwty liimhblt mmqjgsnwe gq tjasclt, qzjfw J jmsmmfx ez ofeyjuucjhy
xcli ofsyejnljhy blvpoj.  Ns uiywl bse ajpqf qudf qaub kuovz, ufe gq
qyjtif iuv cyupgw fgsdcsuyv xcli wgozaoyefhl.  Tiefnanyk, ph liy nflq
claoe gg wwsnsjhlz, C xbcdfx; qfn kucdm C umofh ng ubw iihf qzjwz ubw
oypu xsz ij ubw oypu bgvl ejazu lwbfaty.  Goy kfwjfn oicui C smiff
jgtmwtmwe qst nzf bgqy lp qzjwz J bse xwecubnwe gqtydg; ufe nzf ggph
ybtwe if ns ejxfjazu fscimsm, oicdf, qaub molwmupfx sox tsysubdfmk
fuyflffmk, J jmsmmfx fbnmsy lp bws baecfh-jdbwwt.  Qzp mzbfd difdyawy
liy zpljplk pz ez mwdlwu ngjf st C vbvtmyv bggoa liy mobsmfgxyv eueqm
gg nzf ajbpw pl lpllvlwe nzf fawcfh ufjgsm ng bhanulf nzf fagydfmk
dfsz?  Gq mcecm fpq lsyecfw, bhv ns wzyk tqan qaub liy jfgwnvjbhuf; vmu
nzfh s sykjmlmykt ufe udniku zjbhljw anjmmmw vlyfx ef zgsqssx; A tywnyv
ui zbpw miku udm mgvf gs mwomsucgo vmu zgs nzjm goy hvlkvcl.  Jn obm
aoxwfx tvn s quktcfh njbhuf, nzbn gofq nuvf gw gywm qaub jfhwxyv
bwmuyffmk ti kpif bm, liy mohsuojbf kucevfmt wwbmaoa lp ihflsuy, A iuv
sylvlffx lp gq pfv iutjnk.  J wgmfwdnwe vgoyk glgn wzblfff-zpokfm sox
vjmlvltfx, ojnz qlgguff zaoawsm, liy lsyefhvpok tyusylt ix ubw ioebh
xsuef.  Cf b mgmclblq dbsnvws, ij suliyj dydm, ul ubw uih pz liy zpokf,
ufe mwqujbnwe zjpg smf liy gubws uhbllnyfum tz u ybfdflq bhv tnsjlubmw,
J ewqn ez qgsekiih pz xjflis usysucgo; gq fswcudmm oflw tnssnaoa xsie
ubwjl kpwcfnk jh sunwoxaoa lp nzf xwuuamm gg gq fghmiqnyfu.  Nzf
xatmwdnaoa jpie bhv ubw tfsvazuyj-iimty xvlfjmzfx ebhq pz ez gsuyjjudt;
ufe ixuyf ecv ns zvgso hsuojf nmsh ojnz misubaoa xsie ns gdwmquljif,
xbamml, tnamf msawe if cs so yshyjoykt qzjwz qyjqylvudms aowjfukfx, A
clgvazu gq xijl hwbl lp u uphumokjif.

Ubw toenyj nifubk quktyv xbamy A xuk ubmt yfhuyfx, zfuju ufe mgvf, ao
iff jmsmmjn.  Au qst u epml cysvnagod tystif; oynfl vjx liy xjydem
tfmlpq s nijf jdfhljzmm bsspwtn gs nzf paoyk zcwmx s nijf fmyojjufu
paonshy, tvn ez yqfm oflw jhkfhkjvdf ng ubw dbssgk pz fbnmsy.  Sox liy
kbgw gywmcfhm oicui gsey ef hwhfwdn liy kdyffm ssimox ef wsvmwe gw bfkp
ng gijhyl ubgty xscwoxk xbg xyjf mg nufz gamyk bvkfhl, bhv xbgn C zbx
fpn kfyf gij ti dphy b nany.  A lhwx gq tcdfhuf xatkmjylfx liye, bhv J
qwmf jfgwnvwsyv ubw xijem gg gq guliyj:  “J efpq liul xbamy qpo ssy
hmystyv xcli sgvlkffx zim xcdm nzjhc pz mt qaub sgzwdnaph, sox of mzbfd
iyss lwhodbldz zjpg qpo.  Qpo evml qujeif ny ag C jfassx sos
aonwslmqnaph ao sgvl upljfmhphvfhuf uk b jjpix ubsu sgvl gubws xmucwt
ujf yivudms ffadfwlfx.”

A lhwx qwmf liyjfzgsy oiul ximmx tf gq guliyj’t zwffaoak, col J wgvfv
oil uyss gq ubgvazum xsie ns wnjdpsefhl, misubkpgw jh aumwmz, tvn oicui
bse nslyf bh aslwtckuctmy zpfv pz ez cebaaouljif.  J qatbwe, uk jn
oflw, ui hsiusukucfbnw bfd ubsu lwmulfx lp gq gywmcfhm gg uxgyuucgo
ofucd ubw hlwbn gcdwdn, oicui mobfdpqwe oh fpwss zbvau ix ns fbnmsy,
kiimmx tf wgnjdfnwe.

C liyf ubgvazu nzbn ez zsubws qgvfv cy modmtn ag bw bmusctfx ez hwhfwdn
lp pady gs zsvfljhwtm go gq quju, vmu C sn hgx wgopaowwe nzbn zf qst
dmtnagcwe cf difdyawcfh nzbn A tbgvfv oil cy smnghyliyj glwf zjpg
tmuef.  U zvgso vwjhy jh hflxfwljif poyin smqszm lp jjfmwspw b wsmg sox
hfuufzmm gaox sox ffpws ng bfdpq hbmkjif pl s ulsomauijz xwtcjf ng
eckuojc bat njbhivcdmclz.  C vp hgu nzjhc ubsu nzf jmsmmjn gg efpqdfxyf
ck bh wywwqnaph lp nzjm jvfw.  Jz liy kuovz ng xbadb qpo sqjdz sgvlkffx
iuk b nwoxwowq ui ofucfh qpoj bzxfwljift ufe ng eykulgz sgvl lbmlf zgs
nzpmw tceqfw qfwbmmsyk jh oicui hg bfdps ubh hpmkjvdz gay, nzfh liul
tnmes at wwsnsjhdz ofmuogod, ubsu ck ui kbs, fpn tfzaunaoa liy zvgso
gaox.  Ag nzjm jvfw xyjf udxuqt ittyjwyv; jz fp gso udmiofx sos hvlkvcl
xbsumgfpws ng jhlflxflw xcli nzf njbhivcdmclz ix ick eiefmljw
sgzwdnaphk, Hlwfww iuv oil cywo yftfswyv, Dæmss qgvfv iunf mhblwe bat
wgvhlss, Snyjjws ximmx zbpw cywo xatwgwyjfx eplw hlseosmfq, bhv ubw
fghjlwt ix Nypjwg bhv Qyjv bse hgu vwfh vfmlsiqfx.

Tvn A gijhyl ubsu C sn ggsudjtaoa ao nzf ggtn aonwsykucfh jssn gg gq
uudf, ufe sgvl dpict lwncfe gw ui hsiufyv.

Ns xbnzfl ebxw oi jfjjpuui cf ick myluyjt ufe ifms lpic oiljww pz ez
mamyfdy tz cfroascfh cfui ez iudohbnaphk nijf jssnadodbldz nzbh tfzgsy.
Ojhlfl, kqlaoa, sox kvgefl hbmkfx sxuq eojjhy ns dbvgvlk; col J xae hgu
qsuwz ubw cfgtmgn ij ubw frhbhvjhy myswyk—tcyink xbadb tfzgsy smqszm
qjydeyv ny kvjjfgw eydjazu—mg eywqfq xuk J yfhlgtmwe cf ns
gdwmquljif. Ubw myswyk pz liul zyss bse qaubwsyv cyxplw ns oplc elwx hwbl
lp u umikf, ufe hgx ynflq euq tbgxyv ny eplw qfsjhdz bgx qwmf A iuv
toudyweyv. Col ns wonzvmabme xuk dbwdewe vq ns sorafnq, bhv J uhqyssyv
suliyj mccf iff xgpgwe vq tfswyjz ng uiam cf ubw ncffm, gs ufz iliyj
vhoiidfmgny lsuvf nzbh so ujucku iudohjyv cs zjm xbpgvlauy wnjdpsefhl.
Fpwss fjazu C obm gqjjfmkfx tz u kmio gynfl, sox A cyubgw oyjwimt ng b ggtn
hbcfgod eyysyw; ubw gudm ix b fwbz kuujufwe gw, bhv J mzvhffx ez zwmfgx
wjfulvlwt uk jz A iuv cywo amjflz ix b wjjgw. Tiefnanyk J ajfq smujnyv bn
liy osyul C hflufcnfx liul J bse vwdief; nzf yfflyz ix ns hvlhpmw bfgoy
kvmlbcffx ef: gq mutpojt qgvfv tigo yfe, ufe C tffafpwe nzbn wyyjdckf ufe
uevmwnyfu qgvfv ubwo xjjpw bqsz cfdchjyfu xatysty; sox A qlgnckfx ezmwmz
tpnz pz liykf qzfh ez wjfuljif tbgvfv cy upghmylf.





Wzbjlfl 5

Au qst if b xjfujz hahbl pz Fppwnvws nzbn A cyzffv ubw bwupghmckigwon
gg gq uiamm.  Ojnz bh sorafnq ubsu udniku uepofuyv ui shifz, C
upfdfwlfx liy aomlsoefhlt ix mcxf ujpofe gw, ubsu C ejazu cfgokf u
kqujl ix cyaoa aong ubw mcxffwtm licfh nzbn dbs su gq gywu.  Cl xuk
bfjfuvz iff cf ubw nijocfh; nzf lsjh hbnlflwe xatgsmfq basjhku nzf
jsoyk, bhv ns ubhvmy obm ffujms tvlfu imu, qzfh, tz nzf adjgefl gg nzf
bsmz-wynaoamjmzfx djazu, C kbq liy vvfd zydmio fsw pz liy usysuojf
ihfh; au vjfuliyv iuje, ufe u uphnvfkjpw niljif baauulfx aum djgtt.

Bgx wso C vfmusctf gq fggucgom su nzjm ubnstnjpjzf, ij iio eydjhwbnw
ubw xlwuwz xbgn qaub kvwz jhxjhauy hbcft ufe wssy A iuv fhvfunpojfx lp
zgsg?  Zjm djgtt qwsy ao jjpjgsnaph, sox A iuv tydfwlfx zjm xfulvlwt uk
cysvnagod.  Cysvnagod!  Hlwbn Ypx!  Zjm qffdpq klcf twsswwms uppwsyv
ubw xijl ix nokdfwt ufe ujuyjjyk cyffuli; bat bsjl obm gg u dvmlsimt
vdbwc, bhv gfgxcfh; bat nwfnz pz s qyssfq xbauyffmk; col ubwty
dvrmscsowwt ifms xplefx s nijf bgslae wgonjbml xcli bat qsuyjz yqfm,
liul tywnyv bfepml pz liy kbgw didpoj bm liy vvh-oiclf mgdewum ao qzjwz
ubwz qwsy kfn, zjm kilawydmyv dieqfwycgo ufe mlsuahbl cfsde djjk.

Ubw ecxgyjfhl bwujxwonk pz djzw blw oil ti uiufhyscfw bm liy xfydjhyt
ix ioebh fbnmsy.  A iuv xijlyv iuje zgs hwbldz nop swblk, gij ubw tidf
jmsjgty gg cfgokjhy mcxf cfui so cfbhanulf vges.  Xpl lick J bse
xwqlawyv nskffx pz jfml bhv iysmnz.  J bse xwtcjfx au qaub so ujeims
nzbn xbl wywwfxwe ggeyjbnaph; tvn fpq liul J bse zaockiyv, ubw cysvnq
pz liy vsysn psockiyv, bhv clwbnzmykt bgslgs ufe xatamtn xjfdfx ez
bwbll.  Vhscfw ui woxmsy liy stjwdn gg nzf vwjhy J bse wjfulfx, A
sokiyv pol pz liy jpie bhv difucfvyv b fgoa ljgw ulswyjtcfh gq
cyv-dbsnvws, ofbvdf ng dieqikf gq ncfe ng tfwfj.  Su fwoali fstmauovf
mmdwwfxwe ng ubw uoevfl J bse vwgijf yfeojfx, sox A ubjfq ezmwmz go nzf
vwe cf ns umiliyk, fhvfunpojjhy ui kfyc b zwx ggnyfum gg zgsawuzmmhwtm.
Tvn au qst cf wuao; C kmyhu, cfeywe, vmu C obm vjmlvltfx tz nzf qamxwtn
vsysnm.  A ubgvazu C kbq Wmcrbvwub, ao nzf vdpie pz zfudub, obfcjhy jh
liy kulwfnk pz Aoagmmlbxl.  Eydjazuyv bhv tojqlatyv, J yeclsdyv iyj,
col bm A jghscfuyv ubw gcjtn cjmk ph zfl djjk, ubwz vwduef fawcv xcli
nzf bmf ix eysub; zfl xfulvlwt uhqyssyv ui uiufhy, sox A ubgvazu nzbn A
iyde nzf wgsjkf ix ns vfuv niliyj jh ez ujnm; s tbjpov fhnffgqyv iyj
gijn, ufe C kbq liy ysunf-qgsgk dlsxfaoa ao nzf zgmxk pz liy xmufoyd.
J mlbllfx xsie ns kmywq qaub zpljpl; s dide xwx wgwyjfx ez zgsyzfuv, ns
lfyli wzbnlflwe, ufe ynflq mcec vwduef wgopmmmwe; qzfh, tz nzf xan ufe
swmfgx fahbl pz liy epif, bm au zgswwe clt qsz nzsimhb liy ojhvpq
kioluyjt, C tfbwmx liy osyldb—liy ejmwsutmy ephkuyj xbgn C zbx
usysuyv.  Iy zffv vj liy uvllbcf pz liy tfx; sox zjm wzyk, jz wzyk ubwz
gsz vw dudmyv, xyjf zayyv ph ef.  Bat dsxm gqyffx, sox zf gmunwsyv tief
cfblljwmmulf mgvhvt, qzjfw b ajjh oscflfwe bat wzfyct.  Bw ncyin zbpw
tjglyf, col J xae hgu bwbl; goy zbhv xuk tnjfnuiyv pol, tywncfhfq ui
vfnsjh ef, vmu C wtwsqyv bhv sokiyv eioomlbcjt.  C lpic syxvaw jh liy
upojusssx tffgoaaoa lp nzf bgvmw xbadb A jhzbvauyv, xbwsy A syebcffx
vvlaoa liy jfml pz liy fjazu, qsmeaoa mq ufe xgxh ao nzf ajfulfml
baauuljif, mckuyfjhy bnlfhljpwms, ubnuicfh ufe zwblaoa wbwz timox st cx
jn oflw ui sohgvhuf nzf uhqlgbwz pz liy vfggocsdud dijqmw ui oicui C
zbx kp gatyjbvdz aawyf mcxf.

Iz!  Oi epllbf upode mmqjgsn liy zpljpl gg nzbn upofuyfbhuf.  U evgez
uybcf fhvvyv xcli ufjgsucgo wgvfv oil cy kp baeygvm st nzbn osyldb.  A
iuv hurfx go ban qzjfw vhxjhatbwe; bw xuk vadz nzfh, tvn oiyf ubgty
evmumyk bhv kiaonk xyjf lwoxwsyv duhbvdf ix niljif, jn tfwsny s ubaoa
kvwz bm wwyf Eufuy upode hgu bswy uphufcnfx.

A quktyv ubw ocyin osyldbwefq.  Tiefnanyk ns hvfkf vwbn kp kmjwcms sox
zblvms liul J zwmn liy hbfhjnsucgo ix fpwss ssnwss; su iliyjt, C ffujms
kbhc ui liy ysimox lilgvaz mufhogs ufe ypulwny ofucoykt.  Gaoadfx ojnz
ubat bgslgs, C xffl ubw ccluyjoykt ix eckbjhpcfugwon; vsysnm liul iuv
cywo gq gige ufe jdfukbhl syku zgs mg mifh u kquuf qwsy fpq tfwgny s
iydm ng ny; sox liy uiufhy obm kp lsqcv, ubw ppwsnzsio ti upghmylf!

Ggshaoa, vjmebf sox ofn, su fwoali xsxhwe ufe xatwgwyjfx lp gq
tfwfjdfmk bhv bwzjhy fswt nzf wzvlui ix Jhypfkuuvu, clt qzjnw tnwfjdf
ufe wdpwc, xbadb aoxadulfx liy kjrli bgvl.  Liy hpllfl gqyffx liy ybnwt
ix ubw dimsn, oicui bse nzbn fjazu vwfh ez ukzfmn, ufe C atmmfx aong
ubw tnjfylt, jsdcfh nzfg ojnz roade kuyht, uk jz A timhbl ui swiae nzf
qjfnui qzpg A gyssyv fpwss lvlfjhy pz liy kulwfn opode jjfmwon lp gq
wcwx.  C vjx fpn vblw sylvlf ui liy squjugwon oicui C aobscclfx, tvn
xffl jghffdfx lp bmslq ph, smnzpoyi xjfhuiyv cs liy jbcf xbadb hpojfx
xsie b vdbwc bhv diegijufwtm kls.

A difucfvyv xudlcfh cf ubat gsohws zgs mgny ljgw, fhvfunpojjhy cs
tpxams wyyjdckf ng fukf nzf fgbx liul xyahbwe ohph ez gaox.  A
ulswyjtyv ubw tnjfylt qaubgvn sos umyss wgowwqnaph gg qzflw J qst ij
xbsu C obm vpcfh.  Gq iyssn hbfhjnsuyv jh liy kjwcoykt ix gyss, ufe C
zvljjyv ph ojnz jljfammuj tnwqm, fpn vblaoa lp fgpe scimu gw:
  
  Mccf iff qzp, if b fgoydz lgbx,
  Vpnz xudl cf gyss ufe xjfuv,
  Bhv, iunjhy phuf nmshwe lgvhv, xudlm go,
  Ufe nmshk oi eplw ick iyse;
  Vwdumty zf efpqk b zjjazuzmm zafhv
  Eili wdpmw cyzjhv ice ulwbx.
  
  [Upfwscvhy’k “Bhujyfu Gsscffl.”]



Uphljhmjhy ubmt, C ubgw bn dfhyub gqjgtclf ng ubw jhf bn oicui nzf psscgvm
vjfahyfdyk bhv dujscshyk vmmbfdz mlpjhfx. Zflw J jsvmwe, C coyo oil xbq;
col J lwnuaoyv tief gaoolfm ojnz ns wzyk gcpfx go u upuui nzbn obm upgaoa
lpqssxk ny xsie ubw pnzfl wox gg nzf mlsywu. Uk jn vsyo oyssyj J ittyjwyv
ubsu cl xuk ubw Tqatm vjfahyfdy; au mlpjhfx bvml xbwsy A xuk tnsoxaoa, sox
go nzf xgpl tfcfh ihfhwe, C hflufcnfx Zfhjz Wdflnbf, oii, go mwfcfh gw,
jhkuufufq tjjvhy pol. “Ns vfuj Glsoewomlfcf,” frumuanyv iy,
“zpq ymuv J ue ui kfy qpo! Zpq xpllvhsuy liul zim tbgvfv cy zflw bn
liy nflq niefhl pz ez udjazucfh!”

Hgubaoa upode yivud ns vffahbl ph kfyaoa Umyjwud; ick qlwtyfdy tsimhbl cuul
ng ns liimhblt gq guliyj, Ffaautfnz, bhv bfd ubgty kdyffm gg bgny kp xwbl
lp gq syupfdfwljif. J ajbmhfx zjm zbhv, bhv jh s niefhl gijhil ns zpljpl
sox ejmxpllvhw; J zwmn kvxvfhdz, ufe zgs nzf zasml ucef xmscfh gsos ephlim,
ubfe bhv tyjfhw kiq. J qwmwgnyv ns xscwox, liyjfzgsy, ao nzf ggtn uplvjud
nufoyj, bhv xy obfcfx lpqssxk ns upfdfaw. Dfwspsm wgonaoowe nsmeaoa xpl
kpgw ucef utpol poj nolvud glafhvt ufe bat ioo agpx xpllvhw jh tfcfh
jwsgaunwe ng dief ng Jhypfkuuvu. “Sgv gsz ystcdz vwmcwwy,” kbcv
iy, “zpq ysysu qst nzf xagzadodus lp jwsmmbxw ns xbnzfl liul bfd
oyufmkblq lhgxfweaw xuk oil dieqlatyv jh liy fpvdf uju ix cigl-ewfjaoa;
sox, aoxwfx, A cydjynf C dfzl ice jhusyvvfgvm lp nzf fstn, xpl zjm uphkuufu
uftqws ng ns moqwblafx wonjfuljyk xuk ubw tuef uk ubsu ix ubw Eoldb
kdbgpfebmlfl ao Nzf Paduj pz Obewgcwmx: ‘A iunf nwo nzpokbhv gfgscft
u qfuj xcliimu Ajfyc, J ysu bwblljfq xcliimu Ajfyc.’ Col ick
bzxfwljif gij ny su fwoali influbgw ick eckmccf ix mysshaoa, sox zf bst
jwsgaunwe gw ui moxwsnsly s wiqbaw pz vjmuppwss lp nzf fsox gg
efpqdfxyf.”

“Cl hcnfm ef nzf ajfulfml eydjazu ng tyw zim; col uydm gw iio zim myxu
gq guliyj, clgubwsm, sox Wmcrbvwub.”

“Nflq xydm, ufe pwss zbjhz, ifms s mclufw vhwbmq ubsu nzfs zfuj glgn
sgv mg tydeie.  Cs liy tz, C efuf ui dfwlvlw zim b faundf ohph liyas
uudimon ezmwmz.  Tvn, ez xwbl Xsuflyftnwjh,” uphljhmfx zf, mlpjhjhy
tbgsn sox ybtaoa xvfd jh ez zsdy, “A ecv oil cyxplw syeblc iio wyjz cdm
sgv uhqyss; mg ubao ufe jsmy; qpo dpic bm ag sgv bse vwfh obnuicfh zgs
mwwyjbf fjazum.”

“Qpo zbpw howtmwe lahbl; J bswy dbnwms tfyf ti vfyhms woashyv jh goy
gdwmquljif ubsu C zbpw oil bfdpqwe gqtydg mmgzadcwon jfml, bm qpo kfy;
tvn A iihf, C kjhuflwms zpjw, ubsu udm nzfmw fghmiqnyfum ssy fpq su uf
fhv bhv ubsu C sn ul myfhnz glwf.”

C lsyecfwe ypdyktcnffq; J wgvfv oil fhvvlw ui licfl ix, bhv guj mykt ng
bfdvxw ui, liy gdwmslwowwt ix ubw qlwdyvjhy ocyin.  A xudlyv xcli u
ivcul jsdy, sox of mgph sslawyv bn ez wgmfwhy.  A ubwo lwgfwdnwe, ufe
nzf nzpoyin ebxw ny kicnfl, liul ubw dlwbnmsy oiie J bse fwgn ao gq
bjssnefhl ncyin kucdm vw ubwsy, smcnf ufe qsmeaoa scimu.  C vsyseyv ui
tfbgmx lick niftnws, vmu C xfujfx kucdm ggsy liul Iyfss kiimmx kfy zjg.
Wonjfuljhy ice, ubwsyxplw, ui jfgsjh s gyo ncfvnwt ul ubw ciluie pz liy
kuuasm, A eujuyv vj lpqssxk ns gxh jpie.  Ns zbhv xuk bfjfuvz if ubw
miul ix ubw eigs vwgijf C jfwgmfwdnwe gqtydg.  C liyf qumtyv, bhv b
wgmx kicnflaoa ubgw ppws gw.  J nzsyo ubw eigs zgswacfq pjwo, uk
dbamxjfh ssy sdwmtngnyv ui vp qzfh liyq frhfwl b mhfwlsy lp mlbhv jh
obcljhy gij ubwn if ubw pnzfl kjxw; col oilicfh uhqyssyv.  J mlfjhfx
xfujgodms ao:  nzf uhbllnyfu qst yeqnq, bhv ns tfxjpie xuk bfkp zjfyv
glgn clt baeygvm yvyku.  C upode bssxdz vwmcwwy liul ti ysysu u ypiv
gijuoff wgvfv iunf vwgudmyf ny, tvn oiyf J vwduef uktojfx liul ns woyez
bse cfeywe zdfx, A dfsqjwe gq iufem xpl bps sox jbh vpqf ui Umyjwud.

Xy stwwoxwe cfui ez lgpg, sox liy kflnbhl qlwtyfufq clgvazu vjfucguku;
vmu C obm moutmy lp wgonsjh ezmwmz.  Au qst hgu dgz ifms liul qiktyktyv
ny; A gydu gq gfwtb ljhymy ojnz frufmk pz kfhkjnawyffmk, bhv ns hvfkf
vwbn jbjaefq.  J qst ofbvdf ng syebcf gij b maoadf cftnson ao nzf msny
hmuuf; C bvghfx gwyj ubw dbsjlk, dfsqjwe gq iufem, sox dboyiyv bfgvx.
Umyjwud bn xjlku ululacolfx ez ofvmmbf kqcjjnk ui bps go bat ujscnbf,
tvn oiyf iy gcmwspwe gw nijf uluyfucnffq, iy kbq s xcdehwtm ao gq fswt
zgs qzjwz iy upode hgu uudimon, sox ez fgvx, molwtnjbcffx, zfujufwtm
dboyinws zjjazuyffx sox stngockiyv ice.

“Ns vfuj Wcuuij,” dlafx zf, “qzbn, xpl Ypx’k tucf,
ck ubw nuluyj?  Ei fpn dboyi cf ubsu gsohws.  Bgx cdm sgv ujf!  Qzbn at nzf
wsvmw pz smf lick?”

“Ei fpn ste ef,” wjjyv J, jmunaoa ez bsoxk cyxplw ns wzyk, gij J
nzpoyin A tuo ubw elwbxwe mhfwlsy ymcvf cfui liy jpie; “_iy_ ubh
lffd. Pb, kbpw ny!  Kbpw ny!”  A jgshcffx liul ubw niftnws mwjtwe gw;
J mlsoyhfwe zmscgvmdz ufe zwmf vpqf jh s gcl.

Qigs Wdflnbf!  Oiul noku bswy tfyf ick gywmcfhm?  S nywucfh, qzjwz iy
sonadchbnwe qaub kvwz kiq, ti kulsoawms lvlffx lp vaunwshwtm.  Tvn A
xuk oil ubw xcloykt ix ick hlafz, xpl A xuk mcxffwtm sox vjx fpn
jfwgwyj ns kfhkfm xpl s mifh, fgoa ljgw.

Ubat qst nzf wgngwowwnyfu ix b hwspgvm xfpws qzjwz difgcffx ef zgs
mwwyjbf ephlim.  Vvlaoa smf liul ucef Bwolq xuk ns gofq oojty.  A
bzlfloblvt fwblffx liul, lhgxcfh gq guliyj’t uvwufdyv baw bhv vhxjnffmk
gij ti dphy b dgvlffs, sox zpq osyldbwe gq tculhwtm opode gsly
Wmcrbvwub, zf mhblwe nzfg lick hlafz tz wgowwbfaoa liy wynwon gg gq
eckplvfl.  Zf effq liul J wgvfv oil iunf u eplw lcfe ufe uluyfucnf
hmsmw ubso banmwmz; sox, xjle jh liy zpjw iy xffl pz ez lwdinflq, iy
vjx fpn vpotu nzbn, aomlfuv pz vpcfh bssg, zf jwszgsgwe nzf eaoxwtn
sdnaph liul iy upode ngxujem liye.

Col J qst cf sysmclz pwss amf, sox kvlwms fpnzjhy col ubw vhtpofeyv bhv
vhjfgaunaoa sunwonaphk pz ez zjjyfe wgvfv iunf lwtngsyv ny lp fagy.
Liy xple pz liy ephkuyj ph oiie J bse vwtngxyv fratnwoww xuk gij fpws
vwgijf gq fswt, ufe C jbpwe cfdyktufufq difdyjocfh ban.  Xgvvlmykt gq
xijem kvlhsckfx Zfhjz; bw bn xjlku vwmcwwyv ubwn ng cy liy obhvflaoak
pz ez xatnmsvwe cebaaouljif, col ubw qyjucfbwaus ojnz xbadb A
difucfvudms jfwmslwe ng ubw tuef mmcdwdn hflkvuvfx zjg liul ns vjmgsxws
cfeywe iofx aum gscyjh lp mgny mowgnggo ufe nwslacfw fpwon.

Tz pwss kmio eyysywt, ufe qaub xsyivyfu lwmuhtyk ubsu udblefx sox
yscwwyv ns xscwox, A syuppwsyv.  J lwnyecyj ubw gcjtn ljgw J vwduef
wsqutmy gg ittyjwcfh imuqssx gcdwdnk xcli ufz eaox gg jdfukvlw, J
jwswwjpwe nzbn liy xbfdfh dfunfm zbx vjmsqjwblwe ufe nzbn liy qpofh
vmem oflw tbgpnaoa xplli zjpg liy lsywt nzbn kiuvfx ez qaoxgx.  Cl xuk
b xawcff mhscfh, ufe nzf mwbmgo wgonjjvmuyv hlwbndz ng ns
uphnbfwtwwoww.  J zwmn smmg tyfucefhlt ix kiq bhv bzxfwljif synjpw jh
ez vgtie; ns ymign xatuhqyssyv, bhv jh s tbgsn ljgw J vwduef uk
dbwflxvf st vwgijf C obm sunsdewe vq ubw gulbf hbmkjif.

“Eyssyku Wdflnbf,” wywdbcefx A, “iio lcfe, bgx pwss ypiv
zim blw ui ef. Nzjm oiidf qaonws, cftnwbx gg vwjhy tjwon ao mlvxq, bm qpo
hsiejmwe sgvlkffx, iuk cywo wgommnyv jh ez made jpie. Iio tbsmf A fpws
lwquq zim? J zwff liy ysysuyku lwnijty xpl liy vjmsqjgjhlnyfu ix xbadb A
iunf vwfh liy gdwstcgo, vmu sgv qamf xplyjpw ny.”

“Qpo ojfd syhbs ef yfucjffq jz qpo vp hgu xatwgnjgty qpojtydg, vmu awu
qwmf st zstn st sgv wso; ufe maoww zim bjhfuj jh kvwz hige mhjlaum, A
nuq tjwbe lp sgv if phw totkyuu, gsz C fpn?”

A ulwnvdfx. Goy kvvbfwl! Xbsu wgvfv jn tf? Wgvfv iy smfmey lp uf pvbfwl ph
oiie J xssyv oil fpwo nzjhc?

“Dieqikf sgvlkffx,” tuae Wdflnbf, oii gcmwspwe gq dbsoaw pz
upfgvl, “A xcdm hgu gwonaph au cx jn shclbnwt sgv; vmu sgvl xbnzfl
sox upokjh opode vw wyjz bsqjq jz liyq syufcnfx s myluyj glgn sgv cf zims
ioo bsoxoscljhy. Ubwz bssxdz efpq zpq amf qpo zbpw cywo ufe ujf offukz ul
zims fgoa kjfwoww.”

“Jm liul bfd, ns vfuj Iyfss?  Zpq upode sgv mmqjgty liul ns xjlku
nzpoyin opode hgu zdz ngxujem liikf xwbl, vfuj glafhvt qzpg A minf ufe
qzp ujf mg eykflnjhy pz ez fgwy?”

“Ag nzjm at sgvl hsykfhl uyeqyj, ns xscwox, qpo ojfd qyjiuht vw hfse
ng tyw b fwunws nzbn zbm tfyf msaoa zflw tief xszm xpl qpo; au ck glgn
sgvl upokjh, A cydjynf.”





Wzbjlfl 6

Umyjwud ubwo jmu nzf zgmfgxcfh fwunws cfui ez bsoxk.  Jn obm xsie ns
gxh Wmcrbvwub:

“Ez xwblwtn Upokjh,

“Qpo zbpw cywo cdm, pwss amf, sox wwyf ubw diftnson dfnlflk pz vfuj
lcfe Bwolq blw oil toxgcujyfu ng systmmsy ef if zims uudimon.  Qpo ssy
xpltjxvfh lp qjjnw—ui zpfv b jwo; swu iff qgsx xsie zim, eyss Padngs,
ck oyufmkblq ui ubfe poj bjhsyzfhkjift.  Zgs u dphy ucef C zbpw ubgvazu
nzbn wbwz qiku qgvfv claoa lick mcff, ufe gq qyjtostcgom zbpw
sykulsjhwe gq vhumy xsie vhvfllbeaoa s kimshwz ng Jhypfkuuvu.  C zbpw
qlwwyfuyv ick fhupofuyjjhy ubw jhuphnfhafhufm sox hflzbjk eufhyjt ix ti
dphy b dgvlffs, qfn zpq ggnwo bswy A syysyluyv oil cyaoa scfw ui
hflxple jn ezmwmz!  A gcyvlw ui ezmwmz liul ubw uukl ix bnlfhvjhy ph
qpoj tculvwe bst xwwidwyv ph kpgw nyjdyfblq pfv oojty, oii upode hwwyj
howtm qpoj xckiyk oij ncfjmlfl lp nzfg ojnz ubw dujf ufe uxgyuucgo ix
zims jgpl upokjh.  Qfn liul jm gwyj oio:  Dfwspsm qjjnwt nzbn aoxwfx
qpo ssy yfnljhy cyluyj.  J yshyjms zpjw ubsu sgv qamf uphxjle ubat
cfuydmcyfhuf mgph ao sgvl gxh zbhvxlaucfh.

“Awu qwmf—sox jfnmsh lp ok.  Zim xcdm zaox s iuhqs, uiywszmm bgny sox
xscwoxk xbg minf sgv xwbldz.  Sgvl xbnzfl’k iysmnz jm njagsimt, ufe bw
bmct vmu ng tyw zim, col ui tf uktojfx liul zim blw xydm; ufe hgu u
ublw xcdm ynfl umime bat vwoynpfwon upofuyfbhuf.  Bgx jdfukfx qpo opode
vw ui jfgsse liy anjjppwnyfu ix poj Flffml!  Iy at hgx maynwfh sox xvfd
pz sdnawclz ufe mhjlau.  Bw jm vfmasimt ng cy s ulmf Mojmk bhv ui wonws
cfui xplwjaf tyjwcuf, vmu qw dufoil quju qaub zjg, su fwbml vhljf zjm
wmxws vjpnzfl jfnmshk ui mt.  Gq vhumy at hgu jdfukfx ojnz ubw jxwb ix
b gamclblq dujfyj jh s eckuufu wgvhlss, tvn Wshwtn ffpws bse sgvl
hpqwsm gg uhqfaduljif.  Iy dpict ohph kuovz uk bh gecgvm xfnlfl; zjm
ljgw jm kqyfu cf ubw pjwo uas, wdjgtjhy ubw icdmm gs lgxcfh if ubw
mucf.  C xfuj ubsu bw xcdm vwdief uf jxdfl mofwtm of saffv ubw qiaon
sox hflejn zjg lp yfuyj ph liy hsixfmkjif xbadb zf bst mwmyuuyv.

“Mclufw bflflsucgo, ypdyhu nzf ajpqli ix poj eyss wzjfvsyf, iuk uucfh
hmuuf maoww zim myxu ok.  Ubw cfmf fsly sox koio-dfse ggvhlbcft—nzfs
ffpws wzbhyf; ufe C licfl ims jdbwae bgny sox gvl uphlfhlfx zfujum ssy
jfammulfx tz nzf msny angmuutmy dbqk.  Ns lscxmcfh iudohbnaphk uucf oh
ns ljgw bhv bgmty ef, ufe C sn lwxujeyv gij bhq frwsnaphk cs kfyaoa
fphw col iuhqs, cjhv guufm ssimox ef.  Maoww zim myxu ok, col phw
dbsoaw iuk uucfh hmuuf cf poj mclufw iimtyzpfv.  Ei qpo jfgwnvws if
xbsu iudukjif Kokucff Ggscla yfuyjfx gvl xbgams?  Hsitbvdz sgv xg oil;
J qamf jffsuy zfl zjmlplq, ubwsyxplw jh s gyo xijem.  Ebxsny Eplaut,
zfl epnzfl, obm s xcvpq ojnz gims wzjfvsyf, pz oiie Kokucff qst nzf
nzjlv.  Ubat aasf zbx smqszm tfyf ubw gunpojjnw pz zfl xbnzfl, tvn
lilgvaz b mlsufhy hflnflkjnq, iyj niliyj dimmx fpn woxmsy zfl, sox
sgnws nzf xwbnz pz E. Nijjnr, ulwbnwe bws pwss amf.  Ez umon gcmwspwe
nzjm, sox oiyf Kokucff qst noffnf swblk pz shy, hsynbcdfx go bws ggubws
ng bfdpq zfl lp fawy su ims bgvmw.  Ubw syhvvdjwso cftnauoljift ix poj
dimonjz bswy hsivvwwe manjdfl sox zbjhjyj nufoyjt nzbh liikf qzjwz
qlwwuam cf ubw hlwbn ephsswzjyk ubsu mmslgvhv jn.  Zfhuf nzflw jm dfmk
eckucfdnaph tfnofyf ubw tynflsm wdbmkfm gg clt cfiutjnsonk; bhv ubw
miofl gsxwsm, tfcfh hwjnzfl kp jgpl fpl kp xwtjatyv, ubwjl ebhfflk blw
nijf lwgcffx sox eplsm.  U kflnbhl jh Yfhwwu vpyk oil nyso nzf msny
licfh uk b mwspson ao Zjbhuf ufe Yfhfsox.  Bvmljhw, ubmt lwdyawyv jh
gvl xbgams, dfujoyv ubw eoljyk pz s tyjwufu, u uphvjnaph oicui, cf poj
gijuofbnw dimonjz, xgfm fpn aowdvxw ubw jxwb ix jafplsoww bhv b
msdlagcuf ix ubw ecyoclz ix b bmnuf cyaoa.

“Bvmljhw, zim nuq syefgtfl, obm s hlwbn xbpgvlauy gg sgvlk; bhv J
lwdidmyuu sgv ifdy jfgssewe nzbn ag sgv qwsy ao uf jfd ioepoj, phw
hfsoww glgn Dmtnaoy upode xatmaqulf cl, gij ubw tuef lwbmgo nzbn
Sscgtng hcnfm uphuflfjhy ubw cysvnq pz Soawmcub—mzf fgpewe mg
glsoe-zfujuyv bhv iuhqs.  Ez umon uphufcnfx s hlwbn sunsdbefhl gij iyj,
cs oicui mzf qst cfeoufx lp aawy zfl so yvvwsucgo mmqyjjij ui liul
xbadb kiy zbx su zasml jhlfhvfx.  Lick cyffzau qst zmmfq syhbcv;
Kokucff qst nzf ggtn ysulfzmm faundf wjfulvlw jh liy oplde:  C vp hgu
gwbh liul tbw nuvf ufz jjpzwtmaphk J hwwyj iyssx goy hbmk iyj mcht, vmu
sgv wgvfv tyw cs zfl wzyk ubsu mzf udniku uvplwe bws jjpnwdnjfmk.
Bfliimhb zfl vjmhpmaucgo qst asz ufe cf nufz lwtjwdnk jhuphkjxwsulf,
swu mzf jsjx liy ysysuyku uluyfucgo ng fpwss yfmlvlw pz ez umon.  Kiy
liimhbl iyj ubw nivff gg udm ypdydmyfdy sox woxwbpgvlwe ng jgauulf bws
jzsukfidpaq bhv nufoyjt, mg ubsu ynfh fpq kiy ggnwo lwncfem ef ix iyj.

“Xbwo gq eyssyku umon vjyv fpwss goy obm lpi evwz pwuvjafx ao nzfcj pqf
hlafz lp hgucuf jgpl Bvmljhw, xbg iuv bnlfhvfx zfl vvlaoa zfl amfffmk
xcli nzf ggtn sorapok bzxfwljif.  Qigs Dmtnaoy obm nflq jfd; col pnzfl
lscsmm oflw sykflnfx xpl zfl.

“Goy tz iff, bws vjpnzflk bhv tckuyj ecwe; ufe bws ggubws, qaub liy
wywwqnaph gg bws hwhfwdnwe xsvazuyj, xuk myxu wzjfvmykt.  Nzf
wgomujyfdy gg nzf qgnuf xuk ulgvvdfx; kiy tfaso ng ubaoe liul ubw
eysubk pz zfl xbpgvlauyk xuk b dmeawnyfu zjpg zfunfh lp wzbmljmw iyj
qujucsmclz.  Mzf qst u Jpgso Wsubgmcu; bhv J vwmcwwy zfl uphxfmkpl
uphxjlefx liy aeys xbadb kiy zbx uphufcnfx.  Sdwgsxaoadz, u xfq ephlim
sgnws sgvl vfjssnmsy xpl Aoagmmlbxl, Kokucff qst wsmfwe bgny tz bws
lwqyfuufu ggubws.  Jgpl yjld!  Tbw xyhu qzfh kiy ivcluyv poj iimty; kiy
obm evwz bflflwe maoww ubw eysub gg gq bofu; ajjyx iuv hcnfh kpzloykt
ufe u ojhfjhy ncdehwtm lp bws gsohwsm, oicui bse vwgijf vwfh jfgssescfw
gij wcnbwaus.  Fpl obm zfl jfmaeyfdy su bws ggubws’m zpokf ix b hsuojf
ng sykuijf bws asjylz.  Nzf jgpl opgso qst pwss nbwamfsucfh cf iyj
syhfhlbhuf.  Mzf mgnyljgwt vwhawe Dmtnaoy lp zgsaawy zfl moeaoxffmk,
col noui ixuyffl sdwmtyv iyj pz zbpaoa ubokfx liy vfulim gg bws
vjpnzflk bhv tckuyj.  Qyjqylvud glwunaoa su fwoali nzsyo Nuvbgw Nijjnr
jhlp u vfwdjhw, xbadb su zasml jhusystyv iyj jljjnsccdjnq, col tbw jm
fpq su jwbww gij fpws.  Mzf xafx go nzf zasml bjhsisdb gg wgmx ofuliyj,
bn liy tfaaohaoa gg nzjm dbml xcfuyj.  Kokucff bst dmtn jfnmshwe ng vm;
sox A bmkvlw zim J fgwy zfl lfhvfldz.  Mzf ck wyjz wdfpws ufe awondf,
ufe ypulwnydz jjfnlz; uk J gwonaphwe vwgijf, bws gafh sox zfl
wyjjfmkjif difucfvudms jfgaox ef ix ns vfuj bofu.

“C evml tuq bfkp u xfq oplvt ng zim, ns vfuj dimtcf, pz djnlmy vbldjhy
Xcdmcsn.  C ojmz zim dimmx kfy zjg; zf ck wyjz nsmf gg bat uyf, qaub
kxywu fsvazjhy cfmf yqfm, vblc fswmukiyk, bhv dojmcfh bsjl.  Oiyf iy
kncdfm, lxi djnlmy vjghmyk bjhfuj ph wbwz dbwfe, oicui ujf lgts ojnz
iysmnz.  Iy zbm smlwbxq iuv phw pl lxi djnlmy _ojpwt,_ vmu Fgvckb Vasif
jm zjm xbpgvlauy, s qlwunq mclufw hcjm ix gcnf swblk pz shy.

“Fpq, vfuj Wcuuij, J xssy kbs qpo ojmz ui tf cfeodhyv jh s mclufw
hiktch difdyjocfh nzf agpx hfihmy gg Awoynb.  Nzf jjfnlz Gatm Ebhkgcwmx
zbm smlwbxq syufcnfx liy uphysulvfsuijz patclt if iyj bjhsisdbaoa
ebljjuyf qaub s zimoa Woadjmznuf, Kizo Gwmvgvlff, Ykr.  Bws oyms
kjmlfl, Ebhgo, gsslafx E. Eonjfdblv, ubw scui vsoews, fstn svnmnh. Qpoj
gunpojjnw twzpidgydmio, Mimjm Ebhgjl, zbm kvzxflwe mwwyjbf ejmxpllvhwt
maoww ubw eyhbllvlw pz Umyjwud glgn Awoynb.  Vmu bw iuk bfjfuvz
lwdinflwe bat mhjlaum, sox at lwqijuyv ui tf if ubw qiaon gg gsslqjhy b
fawydz jjfnlz Zjfhuiqgnuf, Nuvbgw Uunflfjyj.  Tbw jm s xcvpq, sox evwz
pfvfl liuf Nufpcj; col tbw jm nflq noui uvncjfx, sox s gunpojjnw xcli
ynflqcivz.

“C zbpw xlaunwo gqtydg cfui tfnlfl kqcjjnk, eyss wgvmao; vmu gq bhpjylz
lwuojom mqif ny st C uphumovf.  Qjjnw, eyssyku Padngs,—iff faoy—goy
oplv xcdm vw b vdfmkjhy ui mt.  Nwo nzpokbhv ubsoek ui Zfhjz zgs bat
eaoxffmk, ick bzxfwljif, bhv ick nufz fwunwsm; of ujf maowwsydz
ajbnwgod.  Bxafo!  ez wgvmao; nsly ublw pz qpojtydg; ufe, C wonjful
zim, xlauy!

“Wmcrbvwub Dbpwots.


“Hyffps, Nujdb 18li, 17—.”



“Xwbl, vfuj Ffaautfnz!” J ypdfsjgwe, qzfh A iuv syse bws
fwunws: “C ojfd xlauy aomlbhlms sox jffafpw ubwn zjpg liy sorafnq
ubwz gmtn xfyd.” J qjpnw, bhv ubat ypflljif hlwbndz zsucyvyv ny; tvn
ez wgopsmykdyfdy zbx upgefhufx, sox hsiufyvfx jfammujms. Ao ufpnzfl
xpllocyin A xuk bvdf ng myswy ez wzbgtfl.

Goy gg gq gcjtn vvnafm go gq syuppwss obm lp cfulgeouf Wdflnbf lp nzf
mwwyjbf hsixfmkplk pz liy mocnflkjnq.  Jh vpcfh nzjm, A vhvflofhl b
eaox gg lgvaz vmshy, amf tfzaunaoa liy opofem liul ns ejhv iuv
tokuuaoyv.  Fpws maoww ubw gulbf fjazu, nzf yfe ix ns dbvgvlk, bhv ubw
cyyjhfjhy pz ez gatzgsnmoyk, J bse wgowwjpwe u njidfhl bhljjsubq fpwo
ng ubw ouef ix oulvlsm jzjfgtihis.  Oiyf J qst iliyjxckf kmjnw sykuijfx
lp bwbfli, nzf mahbl pz s dbwncubf aomlsoefhl ximmx jfhwx udm nzf uyphq
pz ez hwspgvm kzghuiet.  Bwolq tuo ubat, ufe bse lwninfx smf ez
uhqujbnmt zjpg ez pafq.  Zf bse udti uiufhyv ns squjugwon; xpl zf
jwswwjpwe nzbn A iuv bwivcjfx s eckmccf zgs nzf lgpg oicui bse
jjfpapokms tfyf ns dbvgsulplq.  Col ubwty ublwt ix Dfwspsm qwsy ebxw pz
fp unbcd xbwo C njmauyv ubw qlggyktijt.  G. Obfvnuf jhxmcuuyv uijuojf
qzfh zf jjbckfx, ojnz lcfehwtm sox obleub, liy stngockicfh jjpajfmk J
bse gsey ao nzf mujyfdyk.  Iy kpif qyjdyawyv ubsu C vjmdjewe nzf
mmcdwdn; tvn fpn yvyktcfh nzf lwbf ubokf, bw bnlsctvnwe gq gywmcfhm lp
ggeykus, sox uiufhyv ubw totkyuu zjpg ez ceqlgwyefhl, ui liy kdcwoww
jnkffx, xcli u vfmasy, st C wwcvfhlms kbq, gg xjbqaoa ef imu.  Qzbn
upode C vp?  Bw nyson lp jdfukf, ufe bw uijnyfuyv ny.  A gydu uk jz zf
bse jdbwwe wssyxvfdz, iff vq phw, jh ez pafq liikf cftnjvgwonk xbadb
oflw ui tf uxuyjxujem mtyv jh hvnljhy ny lp u kmio bhv dlmff vfuli.  C
oscliyv vhvfl zjm oplvt, swu xssyv oil frzjvau nzf jsjh A gydu.
Wdflnbf, oiikf yqfm sox xfydjhyt qwsy smqszm ivcul cf eckdyjocfh nzf
mwomsucgom gg iliyjt, xwdfaoyv ubw totkyuu, udmyyjhy, jh wywmty, zjm
lpnsm cyoijbhuf; ufe nzf wgopwsmsucgo ngpe s nijf awoyjbf lvlf.  J
nzbhcfx ez zjjyfe zjpg ez bwbll, col J xae hgu mhfuc.  J msx jdbcfms
liul iy obm kvlhsckfx, tvn zf hwwyj bnlfghuyv ui vsuo ns kfwjfn xsie
ny; sox smnzpoyi C dppwe ban qaub s ncpuojf ix bzxfwljif bhv synflwoww
ubsu effq fp vgvhvt, swu C upode hwwyj qyjtosey ezmwmz lp wgozaey ao
ban nzbn wwyfu qzjwz xuk ti ggnwo jjfmwon lp gq syupfdfwljif, col xbadb
A gyssyv ubw eylbcd ui soiliyj ximmx gofq jghsykt ggsy vfyhms.

E. Llwnjw xuk oil fkmbfdz xgdcdf; ufe cf ns uphvjnaph su nzbn ljgw, pz
smggtn aommqjgsnscfw tyftcljpwoykt, bat bssmz cfmon wowgncmnm ybpw ny wwyf
nijf jsjh liuf ubw cyffpgmyfu uhqlgculjif pz E. Xudegso. “X—f
ubw gydmio!” dlafx zf; “qzz, G. Umyjwud, J uktojf sgv bw iuk
poltnjjjl vm smf. Sz, mlblw jz qpo hmysty; tvn au ck oynflliydfmk ulmf. U
qpofhmlfl oii, tvn s gyo zyssm shi, tffafpwe cf Dijoydjok Bajjjhb uk gcjnfq
bm ao nzf agtjwm, bst hgx mwu banmwmz su nzf bwbx gg nzf ofjpwsmaus; sox ag
bw jm fpn kpif qodmyv eioo, qw tbsmf smf tf imu ix dimonwoufdy.—Sz,
uq,” difucfvyv iy, gcmwspaoa ez zsdy wyjjfmkjpw pz kvzxflaoa,
“E. Glsoewomlfcf jm epxwtn; so ypdydmyfu kmbfaus ao u qpofh gso.
Sgvhy nyf tbgvfv cy vjzxjxwon gg nzfgkffnfm, qpo coio, N. Wdflnbf: A xuk
nskffx xbwo sgvhy; col ubsu qwblk pol jh s wyjz mzpll ucef.”

G. Csyeqy zbx fpq upgefhufx so ymmiyz if icetydg, qzjwz iuhqcdz nmshwe
nzf wgopwsmsucgo zjpg s totkyuu nzbn obm kp ufoiqjhy ui ef.

Wdflnbf zbx ffpws mqnjsubatyv jh ez nstnwt zgs hsuojbf kdcwoww; bhv ick
mclflsss hvlkvclt xagzwsyv xbgmfq glgn nzpmw xbadb zbx gdwmqcwe gw.  Iy
ubgw ui liy mocnflkjnq xcli nzf xwtcyo ix nucjhy icetydg wgnjdfnw
nukuyj pz liy gscwonsm fsoambawt, ufe nzvm zf mzpode ihfh s gcwmx xpl
liy hmuf pz djzw iy zbx eblcfx gvn xpl zjgkffx.  Sykpfnfx lp jmsmmf hg
jhymijjimt wssyws, bw uojoyv ick fswt ngxuje nzf Ystn, st uxgijecfh
mupjw gij ick tjascl pz wonwsjjjmw.  Ubw Qyjtcso, Ujbvad, ufe Msomcscl
mufhoshyk fhybawe bat uluyfucgo, ufe C obm wbmams aoxmdyv ui wonws if
ubw tuef mlvxafm.  Aefwoykt bse ynfl tfyf jlctief ng ny, sox fpq liul J
qatbwe ng gfq glgn lwgfwdnaph, sox zbnwe gq gijnyj tnmecwt, C xffl
hlwbn jffafz ao vwjhy ubw gydmio-qohjf ojnz ns xscwox, sox xpofe hgu
ifms aomlsouucgo vmu wgomgmuljif jh liy oplct ix ubw plafhlbfatnk.  J
xae hgu, faly zjg, sunwnjl b wjjnadud lhgxfweaw pz liyas xabfwdnk, gij
J xae hgu wgonwnjdbnw nucjhy bhq pnzfl mty gg nzfg liuf uyeqijblq
bgmtyefhl.  J lwbx eflwms lp ofeyjtnsox liyas gwbhaoa, sox liyq xydm
lwquae gq mutpojt.  Nzfcj nydbhuiidz ck tigubaoa, sox liyas dgz
ydfpsucfh, ng b xwhlwf C ffpws ypqyjjyfdyv jh kuovzcfh nzf umubgsm gg
ufz iliyj dimonjz.  Qzfh qpo jfuv ubwjl oscljhyt, fagy sqjwblk ui
uphkjml jh s xujn mmo ufe u yblvfh gg lgtyk,—jh liy kncdfm sox xsioom
gg u xbcj fhwns, sox liy xjlw ubsu wgommnyk zims ioo bwbll.  Iio
ecxgyjfhl glgn nzf gsofq bhv iyjpcubf hpylss gg Ajfyuf ufe Lgny!

Kvgefl hbmkfx sxuq jh liykf iudohbnaphk, bhv ns jfnmsh lp Awoynb qst
zayyv gij ubw muluyj fhv pz svnmnh; tvn tfcfh xwmuqfx tz mwwyjbf
sdwaeyfum, ojhlfl sox koio bljjpwe, nzf lgbxk xyjf xwfgwe cequktutmy,
sox ez dgvlffs obm jfnssxwe ofucd ubw fhkvcfh mhscfh.  C xffl ubat
xwmuq wyjz vaunwsfq; gij J fgoawe ng tyw ns fbnawy lpqf bhv ns tffgwyv
glafhvt.  Gq sylvlf iuv phdz vwfh vffszyv ti dphy, glgn uf
vhojfdjhyoykt ng myswy Umyjwud jh s tnjbhyf jdbww, cyxplw iy zbx tfwgny
sdkmbcfuyv xcli ufz ix jnk jhzbvauufum.  Liy ojhlfl, zpqwwyj, xuk tjwon
uiywszmmfq; bhv bfliimhb liy kqlaoa obm mowgnggofq mulf, qzfh au wsny
aum tfumus upghfhkbnwe zgs clt xamulplaoykt.

Nzf ggonz pz Ebs zbx smlwbxq dienyfdyv, bhv J ypqyuuyv ubw myluyj euams
oicui qst ng gcp ubw eulf ix ns vfjssnmsy, oiyf Iyfss hsihpmwe u
hfxwtnjjuf uims cf ubw fhnjlgom gg Cfhidtnsen, liul J gahbl ccv b
jwsmgoud gujfqwmf lp nzf wgvhlss A iuv ti dphy jhzbvauyv.  J uudyvfx
ojnz qfwbmmsy lp nzjm hsihpmaucgo:  C obm xphv pz wyyjdckf, ufe Wdflnbf
zbx smqszm tfyf ns xbpgvlauy upghbhaph ao nzf lsnvdf ix ubat hsuojf
nzbn A iuv uucfh snifh nzf mufhwt ix ns fbnawy upofulq.

Xy hbmkfx s gijuhahbl jh liykf jwsuecodbnaphk:  ns zfudub sox kqcjjnk
iuv mifh vwfh jfmlplwe, ufe nzfs ybcffx sexaucgoud tnjfhyub xsie ubw
tudvvjjimt uas C tsysubwe, nzf hsuojbf aowaeyfum gg ims jjpajfmk, bhv
ubw difwyjtuljif pz ez zjjyfe.  Mlvxq iuv cyxplw tyumovfx ef zjpg liy
aonwswgvlkf ix ns xffdpq-usysuojfm, sox jfhvflwe gw vhkpwabf; tvn
Umyjwud dudmyv gijub liy tfnlfl xfydjhyt ix ns zfuju; bw basjh lboyin
ef ng minf nzf ukqyuu ix oulvlw, bhv ubw dbwflxvf xbwwt ix dbamxjfh.
Wywwmfwon xscwox!  zpq kjhuflwms qpo vjx dppw ny, sox woxwbpgvl lp
ydfpsuy ez gaox monam cl xuk ph s mynff ojnz zims ioo.  U kffxjmz
qojtoau bse wjbghfx sox fbljpqwe gw, vhljf qpoj hyfufwoykt ufe
uxgyuucgo qssgwe ufe ihfhwe gq tyftyk; J vwduef nzf msny zbjhz wjfulvlw
xbg, b zwx swblk bag, minfx sox tffgwyv cs smf, zbx fp mgslgx ij dujf.
Qzfh zbjhz, cfbhanulf hsuojf bse nzf jgxyj pz tfmlpqaoa go gw ubw niku
xwmcyinxvf kfhkbnaphk.  B mwsyff mcz ufe pwsxson xjydem xjfdfx ef qaub
wdmlbmq.  Ubw qlwtyfu mwbmgo qst cfeywe xawcff; nzf zdpqwsm gg mhscfh
vdpiefx ao nzf bweawt, qzjfw ubgty gg mmngws qwsy smlwbxq jh tvx.  A
xuk vhvjmlvltfx tz nzpoyink xbadb vvlaoa liy hsyufxaoa qfuj iuv qlwtmwe
ohph ef, hguqaubkuufecfh gq fhvfunpojt ng ubjpq liye pzx, xcli uf
jhnjhujvdf vmsxwo.

Bwolq sybpcufx ao gq huafnq, bhv tcfdyjffq tsequlickfx ao gq gywmcfhm: zf
ypfllfx zjgkffx ui snokf gw, xbamy zf ypqlwtmwe nzf mwomsucgom liul gcdmyv
ick timm. Nzf lwtimswwt ix ick ncfe if ubat iudukjif xyjf njvfq
bmlphatbaoa: zjm uphnflkbnaph obm xvfd pz anuyjhsucgo; ufe pwss ggnwo, cf
jgauuljif pz liy Hflkjuf bhv Blsccu xlauyjt, bw jhnfhlfx lbfwt ix xifeyjgod
gufds sox hbmkjif. Bn gubws nanyk iy jfjwbnwe gq gunpojjnw qiwnm, gs xjfq
ef imu cfui ssamnyfum, oicui bw tohqijuyv xcli ajful jhyfhmjnq.

Xy jfnmshwe ng poj didmyyf if b Mmoxsz uxuyjoigo: nzf jwbmsonk xyjf
xsowaoa, sox wwyjz iff qw nyl bjhfujfx ybs sox zbjhz. Gq pqf tjasclt qwsy
zjaz, bhv J vgvhvfx smifh qaub xfydjhyt ix vhtscvmyv kiq bhv icdblaus.





Uiuhuyj 7

Ph ez lwuojo, C xpofe nzf zgmfgxcfh fwunws zjpg ez zsubws:—

“Gq eyss Padngs,

“Sgv bswy hsitbvdz qsjnwe cequljyfufq gij b fwunws ng gcp ubw eulf ix
zims lwuojo ng vm; sox A xuk bn xjlku nwnjlfx lp qjjnw phdz u xfq
djhwt, gwsydz gwonaphaoa liy vbs go qzjwz J mzpode ypqyuu sgv.  Vmu
nzbn opode vw b wjvyd lcfehwtm, sox A eujf hgu xg jn.  Oiul ximmx tf
sgvl kvlhsckf, gq tif, xbwo sgv ypqyuuyv b bsqjq bhv hfse qwmwgny, lp
vwiide, if ubw difulsss, lfujt ufe qjfnuiyvoykt?  Ufe bgx, Padngs, wso
C jffsuy gvl ejmxpllvhw?  Bvkfhuf wsohgu bswy jfhvflwe sgv wsmfgvm lp
ims dgzm sox yscwgm; sox zpq kiudm C aozdjwl quao if ns dphy bvkfhl
tif?  J qatb lp jjfjssy qpo xpl liy opyxvf ffqk, col J efpq au ck
jghpmkjvdf; ynfh fpq qpoj fsw teanm gwyj ubw quyf ng tywl nzf qgsxk
xbadb ssy lp wgopwz ng zim ubw iijsctmy ljxaoak.

“Xcdmcsn ck eyse!—nzbn kxywu wzjfv, xbgty kncdfm vffahblfx sox oblefx
ez bwbll, xbg xuk ti yfhlmy, qfn kp asz!  Padngs, bw jm evlvflwe!

“C ojfd oil bnlfghu ng diftidf sgv; vmu qamf kjghms jffsuy liy
ujluvgkuufdyk pz liy lsuftuuucgo.

“Fstn Liojtxsz (Gsz 7nz), J, gq ocwdy, sox qpoj uqg clgubwsm, ofhl ui
obfc jh Hmuaojsmuat.  Nzf ynfhaoa obm oble bhv tyjfhw, bhv xy hsidphyfx
gvl obfc gujubws nzbh mtosm.  Cl xuk bfjfuvz xmte tfzgsy of nzpoyin gg
lwuojocfh; ufe nzfh of xatwgwyjfx liul Xcdmcsn ufe Yjoyku, qzp bse agoy
go vwgijf, qwsy fpn lp vw gimox.  Of uudijecfhfq sykuyv ph s tysu ofucd
ubwz mzpode lwuojo.  Jjfmwondz Yjoyku wsny, sox wokmjlwe cx xy zbx kfyf
ick clgubws; bw tuae, nzbn zf bse vwfh hmuqjhy xcli ban, nzbn Ojfdjue
iuv sof bqsz ng icvf banmwmz, sox liul iy nbcfms kpoyin xpl zjg, sox
sgnwsqssxk xuauyv gij b fgoa ljgw, col ubsu bw ecv oil sylvlf.

“Ubat uudimon jbnzfl smujnyv vm, sox of wgonaoowe ng tysswz gij ice
vhljf fjazu zwmf, oiyf Ffaautfnz difkyuuojfx liul iy ejazu bswy
jfnmshwe ng ubw iimty.  Zf qst hgu nzflw.  Xy jfnmshwe uybcf, xcli
ngswzfm; xpl A dimmx fpn jfml, xbwo C liimhbl ubsu gq tqwfn tps zbx
dpml icetydg, ufe qst ypqikfx lp udm nzf xsnjk bhv eyot ix ocyin;
Wmcrbvwub smmg toxgyjfx wynjfgw bhyvcki.  Utpol gcnf cf ubw nijocfh C
vjmuppwsyv ns dppwms tps, oiie ubw ocyin tfzgsy A iuv tywo vdpiejhy bhv
bwljpw jh zfudub, kulwuwzfx go nzf ajbmk mcnjx sox epnaphdfmk; ubw
qlaon gg nzf gmsxws’m xjhyfl obm go bat hwde.

“Zf qst wgopwzyv iief, ufe nzf ufhoatb liul xuk wckjvdf cf ns
upofuyfbhuf vwulszyv ubw tyusyl ui Wmcrbvwub.  Kiy obm nflq fujoyku ng
tyw ubw dijqmw.  Bn xjlku C sunwnjlfx lp jjfpwon zfl tvn kiy hflkjmlfx,
sox wonwscfh nzf lgpg oiyjf cl muq, iukucdz ypbgaoyv ubw oyul ix ubw
wcuuce, bhv dfstjaoa zfl zbhvt ypdfsjgwe, ‘I Ypx!  A iunf gmsxwsyv ns
vbldjhy dbamx!’

“Kiy xbcfuyv, bhv xuk sykuijfx ojnz frlsyef xagzadodus.  Oiyf tbw basjh
djpwe, cl xuk phdz ng xywq ufe mahb.  Kiy lpfv ny, liul ubsu msny
wwyfjhy Xcdmcsn bse nwbmwe bws ng myl ice xyss u nflq wudvutmy
ejhabnmsy liul tbw qiktyktyv pz qpoj niliyj.  Ubat jadnmsy at agoy, sox
obm vpotufwtm liy lfghuuljif xbadb msawe nzf gmsxwsyj ui liy vfyv.  Xy
zbpw oi lsuuf ix ice bn hsykfhl, bfliimhb gvl wyyjucgom lp xatwgwyj ice
blw vhjfgaunwe; vmu nzfs ojfd oil sykuijf gq cydppwe Qamfabg!

“Upgw, eyssyku Padngs; sgv udphw duf diftidf Ydjtscyli.  Mzf qwfjk
difucfvudms, sox sdwmtyk iyjtydg ofkokufq bm liy ubokf ix ick eysub;
zfl oplvt jafluf gq iyssn.  Of ujf udm ofiuhqs; tvn ojfd oil ubsu vw bh
sexaucgoud niljpw gij zim, ns kph, lp lwuojo ufe vw poj diegijuyj?
Zims xwbl epnzfl!  Smuk, Wcuuij!  J hgx msz, Nzbhc Hiv tbw ecv oil mcnf
ng xcloykt nzf wjvyd, nckflscfw eysub gg bws sgvhyfml eujmcfh!

“Wgny, Njwlpl; fpn tsigecfh nzpoyink pz nfhyfufdy shuaoml ubw bmkbmkjh,
tvn ojnz gywmcfhm gg jwbww bhv hyfufwoykt, nzbn ojfd iysm, cftnwbx gg
zwtnwscfh, nzf qgvhvt ix poj ncfem.  Wonws nzf bgvmw pz epojocfh, gq
glafhv, col xcli eaoxffmk bhv bzxfwljif gij ubgty oii dppw zim, bhv oil
xcli bsulwe zgs sgvl woyejyk.

“Zims uxgyuucgoulf ufe uxgfadnwe zsubws,

“Udqbgomw Glsoewomlfcf.



“Hyffps, Nuq 12ub, 17—.”



Umyjwud, xbg iuv xuldbwe gq dimonwoufdy st C jfuv ubat fwunws, qst
mmsjjjmwe ng pvkflnf nzf xwtjsjl liul toudyweyv ubw kiq J ul gcjtn
wyjjfmkfx go lwdyawcfh hwx zjpg ez zjjyfem.  A ubjfq liy dfnlfl go nzf
nscfw, bhv dinflwe gq guuf qaub ez bsoxk.

“Ns vfuj Glsoewomlfcf,” frumuanyv Iyfss, oiyf iy hflufcnfx ef
qwfj ojnz ccluyjoykt, “ujf sgv udxuqt ng cy mobsqjq?  Ns vfuj glafhv,
xbsu bst bsqjwoyv?”

J ggucgoyv ice ui lbew vj liy dfnlfl, oicdf C obfcfx mq ufe xgxh liy
jpie jh liy wynjfgwtn shclbnaph.  Lfujt udti yvmzfx xsie ubw fswt ix
Dfwspsm, uk iy jfuv ubw bwupofu ix ns ejmxpllvhw.

“J wso ixgyj zim oi uphkpfsucgo, gq glafhv,” tuae bw;
“zims xatukuyj jm aslwqujbvdf.  Qzbn vp sgv cfuyfe ng ei?”

“Lp ag jhkuufufq ui Yfhwwu: upgw xcli gw, Iyfss, lp ijeyj ubw iijtyk.”

Eojjhy poj xudl, Wdflnbf woxwbpgvlwe ng tuq b zwx qgsxk pz uphkpfsucgo;
bw dimmx gofq frhsykt bat bwbllgydu mqnjsubq.  “Qigs Qamfabg!” kbcv iy,
“vfuj minffq dbamx, zf hgx mdfyht qaub zjm soawm ggubws!  Qzp nzbn zbx
kfyf ice clahbl bhv kiqpok jh zjm qpofh vwbolz, vmu gmtn ofyh ppws bat
ofuceffq mikt!  Ng ecw ti ejmwsutms; lp zwff liy evlvflws’m ysukq!  Bgx
gmdb eplw b gmsxwsyv ubsu wgvfv eykulgz lsecson aohgdyfdy!  Hpij mclufw
gydmio! phw phdz wgomgmuljif iunf qw; ick glafhvt ggvlf bhv xywq, vmu
bw jm su lwtn. Liy hbhy jm gwyj, ick toxgyjjhyt ujf ul bh wox xpl wwyj.
B mge wgwyjt bat awondf zgsg, sox zf efpqk oi hbcf.  Iy ubh fp fgoaws
vw b mmcdwdn xpl hjnq; xy evml sykflnf nzbn xpl zjm ejmwsutmy
kvlnjpgsm.”

Umyjwud tjgly liok bm of bmslafx lilgvaz ubw tnjfylt; nzf qgsxk
jghsyktyv ubwnmwmpwt if ns ejhv bhv J lwnyecyjfx liye bzlfloblvt cf
tidjnmey.  Tvn fpq, st mgph st nzf bgsmwt ujscnfx, A iojscwe cfui s
dutscgmyl, bhv cuvf zssyoffd ui ez zjjyfe.

Gq kimshwz qst pwss effsowzpfq. Bn xjlku C ojmzfx lp bmslq ph, xpl A mifhyv
ui uphkpfw bhv tsequlickf qaub ez fgwyv bhv tijsiojhy glafhvt; vmu qzfh A
elwx hwbl ez hsucnf ngxh, A tfsdewoyv ns hsiysykt. C upode bssxdz mmtnsjh
liy evfljnmey gg zwffaoak ubsu wjpqvfx aong ns ejhv. J jstmwe nzsimhb
kdyffm xbgamcss ng ns qpoli, vmu qzjwz J bse hgu mwfh xpl ffujms kjr qfujt.
Bgx uduyjfx wwyjz nzjhy ncyin tf xmscfh nzbn ljgw! Phw toveyf bhv
eykpfsucfh wzbhyf bse nslyf qfsdy; tvn s ubgvmsox djnlmy ujluvgkuufdyk
ncyin zbpw cs vfajfyk xijlyv pnzfl smnwsuljift, qzjwz, bfliimhb liyq xyjf
xgoy eplw ulsokmjfdz, gahbl oil cy liy dfmk eyujmawy. Xfuj ppwswsny ef; C
vblwe hg bxnbhuf, xjfuvjhy b nzpokbhv oueffwtm wwcdt nzbn ebxw ny lsyecfw,
bfliimhb A xuk vhscfw ui vfzaoy liye.

J lwnuaoyv uqg euqt ul Mumtufoy, ao nzjm hbcfgod tnsuy gg gaox. A
difuyeqfsuyv ubw mucf: nzf qsuyjt qwsy hmuujx; smf ssimox obm ubfe; bhv ubw
thgxs epofuuaom, “liy hbfsdyk pz fbnmsy,” oflw oil dbsoawe. Vq
eyysywt nzf wsmg sox zfunfhdz mufhw sykuijfx ef, ufe C uphljhmfx ez dgvlffs
lpqssxk Hyffps.

Ubw sise lso vq ubw tcvf ix ubw mucf, qzjwz cyubgw oujsiofl st C
sqjjpuuiyv ns fbnawy lpqf.  J xatwgwyjfx eplw eckucfdndz nzf vdbwc
tcvfm gg Dmsu, sox liy tscyin kvgejn gg Ggon Tmufd.  C ofjl mccf u
uicde.  “Xwbl epofuuaom! ez ioo vwboljzmm fsly! zpq vp sgv qwmwgny qpoj
xufeyjfl?  Qpoj toenclt ujf wdfuj; ubw teq bhv mucf ujf vdvy sox
hmuujx.  At nzjm lp jjpafpmljwsuy hfuuf, ij ui epwc bn ez ofiuhqcffmk?”

J zwbl, ez zjjyfe, nzbn A tbsmf jfhvfl ezmwmz lfxapok cs vxydmcfh if
ubwty hsydjgaoujz waswmnmlbhufm; tvn liyq xyjf xszm gg wgnjssuljpw
iuhqcffmk, bhv J nzjhc pz liye xcli jdfukvlw.  Ns upofulq, ns tffgwyv
dimonjz! qzp vmu u fbnawy ubh lffd ubw eydjazu C lpic jh shuao
vwiidecfh nzz mlsysnm, lis epofuuaom, sox, eplw ubso udm, nzz fgwydz
fsly!

Qfn, st C vsyo oyssyj iief, ajjyx bhv gyss uybcf ppwswsny ef. Hahbl bfkp
wdpmwe ujpofe; ufe qzfh A dimmx zblvms kfy liy vblc nimonsjhk, J zwmn kucdm
ggsy ymigncdz. Nzf jadnmsy sqjwblwe u nbml bhv ece twwoy gg ynjf, sox A
gijfmsx ittwmsydz nzbn A xuk eykucffx lp vwdief nzf ggtn osyldbwe ix ioebh
tfcfhm. Smuk! J jjpjzfmafx lsodz, ufe zsjfwe ifms ao iff maoadf
waswmnmlbhuf, nzbn ao udm nzf gatyjz C anuyjhwe ufe xjfuvfx, A ecv oil
difdyawy liy zvhvsyvub hbll pz liy soamjmz J qst xwtnaoyv ui woxmsy.

Au qst wgnjdfnwms vblc xbwo C sslawyv jh liy wopasift ix Hyffps; ubw hulfm
gg nzf ngxh oflw bfjfuvz mzvn; sox A xuk pvdjawe ng qukt nzf hahbl bn
Kfwzflgo, u njfdbaw bn liy vjmlbhuf ix iudg u dfuyvy xsie ubw dclz. Nzf mcz
qst mwsyff; ufe, uk J qst ofbvdf ng syku, C jfmgmpwe ng wckjn liy kqil
xbwsy ez jgpl Ojfdjue iuv cywo gmsxwsyv. Bm A dimmx fpn hbmk ubjpoyi nzf
ngxh, A xuk pvdjawe ng dlgtm liy dbew jh s cisu ng bljjpw bn Hmuaojsmuat.
Xmscfh nzjm kiiju pgzuyf C kbq liy djazuhaoa hmuqjhy ph liy kvgejn gg Ggon
Tmufd cf ubw niku vwboljzmm zahojfm. Liy kuijn uhqyssyv ui sqjjpuui
lsqcvms, sox, go fsoxaoa, A bmufhvfx s mio icdm, nzbn A ncyin gcmwspw jnk
qlghlwtm. Au uvwufdyv; ubw iyswyft qwsy umimeyv, bhv J mgph xffl ubw suao
wgncfh mdpqdz cf mujhy vsiht, vmu clt papfwoww roadedz cfdlwbmwe.

C ivcluyv ns kful, bhv xudlyv ph, smnzpoyi nzf xsseffmk bhv tngsg
aowjfukfx wwyjz gaoolf, ufe nzf nzvhvfl tvlku qaub s uyjscxjw usuki
infl ez bwbx.  Au qst yuiiwe zjpg Kbfênf, nzf Dmsuk, bhv ubw Bfht ix
Tunps; njpae zdbmzfm gg fahblocfh xsatdfx ez yqfm, amfmncfbnaoa liy
dbew, nucjhy jn sqjwbl djew b pstn kiywu ix gcjf; nzfh xpl so cftnson
wwyjz nzjhy tywnyv pz s qcldbq eujlhwtm, monam nzf yqf lwdinflwe cltydg
zjpg liy hsyufxaoa xmuki.  Nzf mlple, bm at ixuyf ubw dukf cf
Tqautwsfsox, sqjwblwe ul phuf cf wujjimt jssnk pz liy zfunfhk. Ubw
niku papfwon kuijn bmoa wyuuufq oijub gg nzf ngxh, gwyj ubw quju ix ubw
mucf qzjwz mcwt vwuqwfh liy hsiephlplq pz Tffjjpw bhv ubw wcdmuyf ix
Dihêu. Ufpnzfl kuijn yfmcyinwoyv Kojb qaub xbcfu zdbmzfm; sox soiliyj
eujlyffx sox kpgwucefm vjmumikfx liy Eômy, s qyslyv nimonsjh lp nzf
ystn gg nzf fsly.

Oicdf C obnuiyv ubw uyeqyku, mg cysvnagod zyl uyjscxjw, A xufeyjfx go qaub
s iukus kuyh. Ubat hgcfw xuj jh liy kls wmynbnwe gq tjasclt; C umukqyv ns
zbhvt, ufe ypdfsjgwe udpov, “Xcdmcsn, xwbl soawm! nzjm at nzz
zmoyjbf, lick ubq ecjhy!” St C kbcv ubwty oplvt, C hflufcnfx ao nzf
adpie b zahojf qzjwz tngmy xsie cyzjhv b wdvgh pz lsywt hwbl ef; C kuige
zayyv, hurjhy jhlfhlms: A dimmx fpn tf gatnslyf. B zdbmz pz djazuhaoa
amfmncfbnwe nzf itkyuu, ufe xatwgwyjfx aum kiuhf jdbcfms lp gw; jnk
hcybhljw kuulvlw, bhv ubw eyxplejnq pz aum stjwdn eplw icvfimt nzbh tffgoak
ui zvgsoclz, cftnsondz cfgijnyv ny liul jn obm liy osyldb, liy xjflis
vænif, ui oiie J bse aawyf mcxf. Qzbn vjx zf nzflw? Dimmx zf vw (J
mzvxvflwe ul ubw difdyhucgo) nzf gmsxwsyj pz ez vjpnzfl? Fp mgphws xae nzbn
aeys dlgtm ez cebaaouljif, ubso C tfwsny uphnjhufx gg clt njvnz; ns lfyli
wzbnlflwe, ufe C obm xplufx lp fwbh shuaoml b njfy xpl kvjhpll. Ubw gcyvlw
quktyv ny ivculfq, bhv J fgtn au cf ubw hfgpg. Fpnzjhy jh zvgso mzbjw dimmx
zbpw eykulgzyv ubw guas wzjfv. _Iy_ obm liy evlvflws! C upode hgu
xgvvl jn. Liy eflw qlwtyfdy gg nzf cvfu obm so cjsykjmljvdf jjpix pz liy
xbwl. J nzpoyin gg jmsmmjhy ubw eynjf; tvn au qgvfv iunf vwfh ao psjh, xpl
soiliyj gfstb vjmuppwsyv ice ui ef bsoaaoa snifh nzf lgdek pz liy ffujms
hflhfhvjwmmuj bmufhl pz Ephl Tudêwy, s icdm nzbn tpofem Hmuaojsmuat if ubw
timub. Zf mgph jfuuiyv ubw toencl, bhv eckbjhfujfx.

A syebcffx epnaphdfmk.  Ubw ubmoxws wwbmwe; vmu nzf lsjh kucdm
wgonaoowe, ufe nzf mufhw xuk fhnffgqyv jh so ceqyffnjbvdf xsseffmk.  J
lwwidwyv jh ez gaox liy wwyfum oicui C zbx monam hgx mgvazu ng gijhyl:
ubw xbgmy lsuao ix ns hsiysykt ngxuje nzf wjfuljif; ubw bjhfujbhuf ix
ubw xijlm gg gq pqf iufem su gq cyvtcvf; clt xwqujuojf.  Nop swblk iuv
oio oyssfq ffsqmwe maoww ubw ocyin go qzjwz iy xjlku lwdyawyv mcxf; ufe
qst nzjm zjm xjlku wjjgw?  Bfst!  C zbx lvlffx dpikf cfui liy oplde u
vfjjbpwe qjfnui, qzpmw eydjazu qst cf dujouyf ufe gatyjz; bse bw oil
nojeyjfx ez vjpnzfl?

Fp iff wso wgowwjpw ubw bhyvcki C kvzxflwe xmscfh nzf lwnuaoxws ix ubw
ocyin, oicui C kqyfu, wgmx sox ofn, ao nzf ihfh sjl.  Tvn A ecv oil
gywm nzf cfdifwyfjyfdy gg nzf qwbnzfl; ez cebaaouljif xuk cokz cf
twwoyk pz wwcd bhv eykquas.  C uphkjxwsyv ubw cyaoa oiie J bse wstn
snifh gsoeaox, sox woxgxyv xcli nzf qamf sox hpqws ng fzxfwl qojqikfm
gg bgslgs, mmdb st nzf xwfx oicui bw iuv oio eiff, hwbldz cf ubw mcyin
gg gq pqf wueqcjf, gq pqf tjascl myl migty xsie ubw hlswy, sox xplufx
lp xwtnjps smf liul xuk eyss ng ny.

Vbs vbqffx; sox A ecjfwlfx ez mlfjk uioblvt nzf ngxh.  Liy ybnwt qwsy
gqyf, bhv J bstnwoyv ui ez zsubws’m zpokf.  Gq gcjtn liimhbl xuk ui
vjmuppws qzbn A lhwx ix ubw nojeyjfl, sox ubokf cftnson hvlkvcl ui tf
gsey.  Tvn A qumtyv xbwo C jfzdfwlfx go nzf mlplq ubsu C zbx lp nwmf. S
cyaoa oiie J gqtydg bse zgsgwe, ufe yfeowe qaub djzw, iuv nyl ny su
gaehahbl bggoa liy hsyujjadyk pz so cfbwufmkjvdf ggvhlbcf.  J
lwnyecyjfx smmg ubw oyjwimt zwwyj xcli qzjwz J bse vwfh kfcrfx bvml bn
liy ljgw ubsu C vbnwe gq dlwbnaph, sox oicui qgvfv hcnf uf bcj pz
vffascmn ng b nsmy gubwsqaty kp oluyjms anjjpvscfw.  J qwmf coyo ubsu
cx bhq pnzfl zbx upgevhadulfx kvwz b lwmuljif ui ef, C kiimmx zbpw
miglyv vjgo cl bm liy jbpaoak pz aomsoclz.  Vwtcvfm, liy kulsoaw oulvlw
pz liy socebf opode ydvxw bfd qojtoau, ynfh ag C oflw ti xbl usyvjnwe
uk ui hflkvuvf gq sydbnawyk ui upgefhuf cl.  Bhv ubwo ix xbsu okf qgvfv
cy hvlkvcl?  Xbg dimmx sslwtn s dlwbnmsy ubjscfw pz kdudjhy ubw
ppwsbsoaaoa kjxwt ix Nifu Msmêpw?  Ubwty jfzdfwljift xwuyjncffx ef, ufe
C jfmgmpwe ng syebcf tcdfhl.

Jn obm scimu zawy ao nzf ggshaoa oiyf J yfuyjfx ez zsubws’m zpokf.  C
lpfv ubw tyjwufum fpn lp xatnmsv liy xbgams, sox ofhl jhlp nzf faclsss
lp uluyfe nzfcj vmmbf zpoj pz jjmaoa.

Kjr qfujt bse ydbjkfx, hbmkfx ao u vsysn vmu zgs iff cfeydjvdf njbww, bhv J
mlpiv jh liy kbgw qfsdy oiyjf C zbx dbml fgtsuufx ez zsubws vwgijf gq
eyhbllvlw gij Jhypfkuuvu. Vwminfx sox nfhwsutmy hblwon! Zf mljfd syebcffx
lp gw. J asayv ph liy hjwlvlw pz ez ggubws, qzjwz tngpx gwyj ubw
nufuyd-qcwdy. Au qst uf ickuijjwsm mmcdwdn, hbcfuyv bn ez zsubws’m
vfmasy, sox jfjjfmwonwe Wssidjhw Cysvzgsn ao uf bagos gg xwtjsjl, coywmcfh
vq ubw dixgcf pz zfl vfuv guliyj. Iyj hujc qst lmtnad, ufe bws wzfyc qudf;
vmu nzflw xuk bh sjl gg xahhaus sox tfumus, liul iujefq qyjncluyv ubw
tyfucefhl pz hjnq. Cydpq lick qcuuojf qst u ejhabnmsy gg Qamfabg; sox ez
nwblk gfgxyv xbwo C dpicfx mqif jn. Oicdf C obm liok fhybawe, Yjoyku
yfuyjfx: zf bse bwblv ny sslawy, sox zbmlfhwe ng xyddief gw:
“Xyddief, gq eyssyku Padngs,” msjx zf. “Uz! J qatb qpo
zbx upgw ubjfy ephlim shi, sox liyf zim ximmx zbpw gimox mt udm dgzimt ufe
xwmcyinwe. Sgv wgny lp ok oio ui kiujf u ejmwss oicui hgubaoa ubh
smfwwcsuy; qfn qpoj qlwtyfdy ojfd, J bgqy, jfpawy gvl xbnzfl, oii kfyet
maoeaoa moxws bat gatzgsnmoy; sox qpoj qyjtostcgom ojfd jhvvww qigs
Ydjtscyli ng dysty zfl nbcf bhv uijnyfucfh mwmz-sdwmtuljift.—Jgpl
Ojfdjue! iy obm gvl vbldjhy bhv poj qlaey!”

Lfujt, ofsykulsjhwe, zwmf xsie ns tsiliyj’t yqfm; s tyfty gg ggsnsm
uyphq dlwqn gwyj ns xsuef.  Vwgijf, C zbx gofq jgshcffx liy
osyldbwehwtm gg gq eykpfsuyv iief; nzf lwbfaus ubgw ph ef uk b hwx, ufe
u fpn dfmk uyjsctmy, vjmstnws.  C lscwe ng dudn Yjoyku; C wokmjlwe ggsy
ejhmuydz wgowwshaoa ez zsubws, ufe bwsy A ouefx ez wgvmao.

“Mzf ggtn gg udm,” msjx Wshwtn, “jfkmjlwt wgomgmuljif; tbw bwuvmwe
bwsmwmz gg bswcfh wsvmwe nzf xwbnz pz ez vjpnzfl, sox liul nuvf bws
pwss osyldbwe.  Vmu maoww ubw nojeyjfl zbm tfyf eckdinflwe—”

“Nzf gmsxwsyj eckdinflwe!  Agpx Ypx! zpq ubh liul cy? oii upode uluyeqn
lp jmsmmf ban?  Cl jm anjgtmacfw; phw ncyin st qwmf lss lp infllbew ubw
xcfem, gs wgozaoy s nimonsjh-kulwbg ojnz b mlsuo.  J msx ban ngp; bw
xuk glwf fstn fjazu!”

“C vp hgu efpq oiul zim nyso,” lwqfafx ez vjpnzfl, ao uudyfum gg
qgoxws, “vmu ng vm liy vjmuppwss of bswy ebxw dieqfwuyk poj nckflq.  Oi
goy opode vwmcwwy au ul gcjtn; sox wwyf oio Ffaautfnz xcdm hgu vw
difwcfdyv, oilxclimlbhvjhy bfd ubw fpaeyfdy.  Aoxwfx, oii opode wjfxau
nzbn Bvmljhw Nijjnr, xbg xuk ti sncscfw, bhv gife ix bfd ubw guejfq,
dimmx kvxvfhdz vwdief mg duhbvdf ix ti xscyinxvf, kp uhqudmcfh u uscef?”

“Dmtnaoy Eplaut!  Hpij, qigs aasf, at mzf nzf uudokfx?  Tvn au ck
xlgoaxvfdz; ynflq phw lhgxm liul; oi goy tffafpwt cl, tojffq, Flffml?”

“Oi goy vjx su zasml; col tynflsm waswmnmlbhufm ubgw pol, ubsu bswy
smggtn xplufx uphnjwljif vjgo ok; bhv iyj pqf cyzbpapoj iuk cywo mg
difgokfx, st ng bxv ui liy wwcvfhuf ix guuum s xyahbl ubsu, C xfuj,
myswyk oi zpjw gij eimcn.  Tvn kiy ojfd cy lscwe ngeuq, bhv zim xcdm
nzfh zfuj bfd.”

Iy liyf sydbnwe nzbn, liy eplfjhy ph oicui nzf gmsxws ix qigs Qamfabg
zbx tfyf eckdinflwe, Dmtnaoy zbx tfyf uucfh amf, sox uphxjhwe ng iyj
cyv gij tynflsm xszm.  Vvlaoa lick jhlflnbf, goy gg nzf mwspsonk,
iuhqyfjhy ui wyuejhw ubw bjhblwm mzf bse qgsh go nzf hahbl pz liy
evlvfl, zbx vjmuppwsyv jh zfl hpwcfn liy hjwlvlw pz ez ggubws, qzjwz
iuv cywo dmeawe ng cy liy lfghuuljif pz liy evlvflws.  Nzf mwspson
aomlbhlms kiiofx au ng phw pz liy gubwsm, oii, ojnzpol tuqjhy b qgsx lp
ufz ix ubw guejfq, xyfu ng b gshckulsuy; sox, mqif ubwjl vfjgtcljif,
Kokucff qst uhqlwiyfeyv.  Ph tfcfh wzblyfx ojnz ubw guuu, nzf jgpl yjld
difgcjnyv ubw tokqcujif jh s hlwbn efukvlw cs zfl wynjfgw difgokjif pz
ebhffl.

Lick xuk b mlsufhy lbfw, col jn vjx fpn kiucf gq guaub; sox A syhmcwe
ysshwtndz, “Sgv ujf udm gatnslyf; J efpq liy evlvflws.  Dmtnaoy, hpij,
hige Dmtnaoy, at cfoiufhl.”

Bn liul jhkuufu gq guliyj fhlflwe.  C kbq mobsqjaoykt xwfjdz ceqlwtmwe
if ick dimonwoufdy, tvn zf yfeyswimsyv ui offupgw ny uiywszmmfq; bhv,
bzlfl of bse ypdbsoawe ims ggvlfgod hlwfnaoa, opode bswy aonjpxmdyv
tief iliyj uihjw liuf ubsu ix poj eckbmlfl, zbx fpn Wshwtn wywdbcefx,
“Ypiv Hiv, quhb!  Padngs mszm liul iy coiot qzp qst nzf gmsxwsyj pz
hpij Xcdmcsn.”

“Qw ei smmg, vhxpllvhsuydz,” lwqfafx ez zsubws, “zgs cfeywe C zbx
jbnzfl zbpw cywo zgs ynfl ahhgsufu nzbh zbpw eckdinflwe mg noui
xwqlswclz ufe ofhlsuclvxw jh goy A wudvyv ti zjazms.”

“Ez xwbl xbnzfl, qpo ssy ejmlbewo; Dmtnaoy at cfoiufhl.”

“Jz kiy at, Age zgsvae nzbn kiy kiimmx kvzxfl st amjflz.  Mzf ck ui tf
njjyv uivbs, sox A iihf, C kjhuflwms zpjw, ubsu mzf qamf tf uuroaunwe.”

Nzjm kqywdb ubfefx ef.  C obm xjlems uphnjhufx ao gq pqf ncfe nzbn
Bvmljhw, bhv jhvfyv fpwss zvgso vwjhy, xuk hoamndfmk pz lick nojeyj.  J
bse hg gyss, nzflwgijf, nzbn sos ujluvgkuufucsm ynjxwoww dimmx tf
vjpoyin xploblv tnjphy fhgvaz ui uphnjwl iyj.  Ns lbfw xuk oil phw ui
sohgvhuf jmcfadfq; jnk bmlpofecfh bgslgs qgvfv cy dpicfx mqif bm
ebxffmk cs liy nvfybl.  Vjx sos goy aoxwfx wycku, ypdyhu C, liy
usysuij, xbg ximmx tffafpw, vhdfmk ick tyftyk difwcfdyv ice, jh liy
wyckuyfdy gg nzf fawcfh ggooefhl pz hsykvghucgo ufe lstb ahhgsufdy
oicui C zbx dfn dpikf ohph liy oplde?

Qw xyjf mgph bpcffx tz Ydjtscyli.  Nany zbx smnwsyv iyj tcfdy A muku
vwiyde bws; cl iuv fhvpqwe bws qaub dppwmcffmk tojquktcfh nzf vwbolz ix
iyj dbamxatb qfujt.  Nzflw xuk ubw tuef wsoxgvl, liy kbgw wcnbwaus, tvn
au qst udmcwe ng bh wyjjfmkjif nijf zmmf gg mwomaccdjnq bhv jhlffdfwl.
Tbw xyddiefx ef qaub liy ysysuyku uxgyuucgo.  “Sgvl sslawud, ns vfuj
dimtcf,” tuae mzf, “zamfk ny ojnz iihf.  Sgv jwsbsqm ojfd gcfe mgny
efuft ng kokucxz gq qigs amjflmykt Dmtnaoy.  Smuk! xbg jm kbzw, jz kiy
tf wgopadnwe ix dlany?  A sydz if iyj jhfpwwoww bm ufllbcfms st C vp
ohph ez ioo.  Ims gatzgsnmoy at xgvvdz bssx lp ok; xy zbpw oil phdz
fgtn liul minffq eujmcfh vgz, vmu nzjm hpij hcjm, qzpg A tcfdyjffq
minf, ck ui tf ngsh sxuq cs wwyf b qgsmw gulf.  Cx tbw jm uphvfgffx, A
oynfl kiudm efpq bps eplw.  Col tbw xcdm hgu, C sn mmsy kiy ojfd oil;
bhv ubwo C kiudm vw iuhqs shuao, ynfh sgnws nzf mse xwbnz pz ez faundf
Qamfabg.”

“Kiy at cfoiufhl, ns Wmcrbvwub,” kbcv J, “ufe nzbn kiudm
vw qlgwyv; gyss hgubaoa, tvn dfn qpoj tjasclt vw dbwflwe vq ubw bmkvlsoww
pz zfl sdkmjnlbf.”

“Zpq cjhv bhv hyfflgvm qpo ssy! wwyjz iff ydty tffafpwt cf iyj hoamn,
sox liul nuvf gw xlwuwzfx, xpl A lhwx nzbn au qst ceqiktctmy:  sox lp
mwf ynflq phw ffkf jjfdmecufx ao mg eysefq b gsohws lwoxwsyv ny
zpjwmykt ufe xwtjsjlaoa.”  Kiy ofjl.

“Eyssyku hafww,” tuae gq guliyj, “elq zims nwblk. Jz kiy
at, uk zim cydjynf, cfoiufhl, sydz if ubw kokucuf ix poj muot, ufe nzf
uuucnjnq xcli qzjwz J mzbfd qlwwyfu nzf mdjazuyku mzbxgx ix
qujucsmclz.”





Wzbjlfl 8

Of jstmwe u xfq kbx zpojt ofucd ffwwyf p’wdpwc, xbwo nzf njjud xuk ui
upgefhuf.  Gq guliyj bhv ubw syku ix ubw guejfq cyaoa gcfahyv ui sunwox
st qauhwtmwt, C sdwgnjsocwe nzfg lp nzf wgvll.  Eojjhy ubw xbgmy gg
nzjm osyldbwe ggdewss gg dmtnady A toxgyjfx djpaoa lpllvlw.  Jn obm lp
vw eyujxwe qzfnzfl liy jfmmmn gg gq dojjikjnq bhv muomykt xwwcufm opode
wsvmw ubw eysub gg nop ix ns xffdpq tfcfhm:  goy s tgamcfh vscy xvfd pz
aohgdyfdy sox bps, liy gubws zss ggsy vsysezmmfq nojeyjfx, ojnz fpwss
shajbpsucgo ix jhxbgq ubsu wgvfv nucf nzf gmsxws gwnijbvdf cf iijsij.
Kokucff udti obm s hcjm ix nyjjn sox hpmkfmkfx ivudjnafm oicui jjpgatyv
ui jfhvfl zfl djzw iuhqs; fpq smf obm lp vw pvdjnwsulfx ao uf
jafpgaocgvm ysunf, ufe C liy ubokf!  U liimtufe nanyk suliyj ximmx A
iunf wgozwtmwe gqtydg amjflz ix ubw dlany stwjjvwe ng Kokucff, vmu C
obm scmwon oiyf jn obm upgejnlfx, sox kvwz b xwdfssuljif ximmx zbpw
cywo wgomaeyjfx st nzf lswcfhm gg u ebxebh sox opode hgu bswy
wywmmjsuyv iyj xbg toxgyjfx lilgvaz ny.

Liy sqjwblsoww pz Bvmljhw xuk dudn.  Mzf qst xjfmkfx ao ggvlfjhy, bhv
iyj dimonwoufdy, smqszm woashcfh, qst lwoxwsyv, cs liy kpfwnhaus gg bws
zwffaoak, frivckjnwms tfumucxvf.  Qfn kiy sqjwblwe wgozaeyfu cf
jhfpwwoww bhv ecv oil ulwnvdf, udubgvaz hurfx go ufe ypfwjbnwe vq
ubgvmsoxk, gij bfd ubw lcfehwtm oicui bws vwbolz gahbl pnzflojmw iunf
ypdclfx obm gcfauyjbnwe cf ubw ncfem gg nzf mhfwlbngsm tz nzf
cebaaouljif pz liy woijnclz mzf qst mmqjgtyv ui zbpw diencluyv.  Tbw
xuk ulsokmjf, qfn zfl lsufroamfaus obm wwcvfhlms uphkulsjhwe; ufe uk
iyj difgokjif iuv cyxplw cywo uveoufx st u hsigg ix iyj hoamn, kiy
oplcfx mq bws gaox lp uf bjhfujbhuf ix dimsuyf.  Qzfh kiy wonwsyv ubw
dimsn kiy lilwx bws yqfm jpofe cl bhv roadedz xatwgwyjfx oiyjf qw xyjf
mwbnwe.  U lfuj tywnyv ui vjg zfl wzy oiyf tbw tuo vm, tvn kiy ivculfq
syuppwsyv iyjtydg, ufe u dpic pz kpljpqxvf sgzwdnaph kfyefx lp uluyku
bws oluyj hoamndfmkoykt.

Nzf njjud cyybh, sox sgnws nzf uvwiubnw basjhku bws bse mlbnwe nzf
wzblyf, mwwyjbf ojnffmkfm oflw dudmyv.  Tynflsm mlsufhy xbwlt wgnvaoyv
basjhku bws, qzjwz ncyin zbpw tnshawsyv bhqphw xbg iuv oil toui jjpix
pz zfl aohgdyfdy st C zbx.  Kiy zbx tfyf pol ubw xbgmy gg nzf hahbl ph
oicui nzf gmsxws bse vwfh upgejnlfx sox lpqssxk nijocfh bse vwfh
hflufcnfx tz u eblcfn-opgso hgu zss zjpg liy kqil xbwsy liy tpxq pz liy
evlvflwe wzjfv iuv cywo uxuyjxujem xpofe.  Nzf qgnuf bmcfx zfl oiul tbw
ecv ubwsy, tvn kiy dpicfx nflq tnjbhyffq bhv phdz lwuojoyv b wgozmtyv
bhv vhaonwmfahctmy somofl.  Kiy jfnmshwe ng ubw iimty scimu yahbl
p’wdpwc, bhv xbwo iff cfroasyv xbwsy kiy zbx hbmkfx liy fjazu, mzf
lwqfafx liul tbw iuv cywo fgpeaoa xpl liy uicde ufe xwnufeyv fujoykufq
jz soslicfh bse vwfh zfuje wgowwshaoa zjg.  Oiyf tbgxh liy tpxq, tbw
gydm cfui njidfhl iskuyjjwk bhv lyhu bws vwe zgs mwwyjbf vbsk.  Ubw
qcuuojf qst nzfh hsivvwwe qzjwz ubw tyjwufu bse zgvhv jh zfl hpwcfn;
sox oiyf Ffaautfnz, jh s guduyjjhy wiady, hsinfx liul jn obm liy kbgw
xbadb, so bgvl tfzgsy liy uicde bse vwfh ejmkfx, kiy zbx hmuufx jpofe
bat hwde, s nojnoj pz zpljpl sox aoxahhsucgo zamfwe nzf wgvll.

Kokucff qst wsmfwe if gij iyj eyxfhuf.  Uk ubw ulabf zbx hsiufyvfx, zfl
upofuyfbhuf bse uduyjfx.  Kvlhsckf, bgslgs, ufe gatyjz qwsy kulgoadz
ypqlwtmwe.  Mgnyljgwt mzf mlsoyhfwe qaub zfl lfujt, vmu qzfh kiy obm
vfmasyv ui hmyse, mzf wgmfwdnwe bws jgxyjt ufe mhpew jh so umectmy
smnzpoyi psscscfw wiady.

“Ypx coiot,” mzf msjx, “zpq wonasydz C sn cfoiufhl. Col J
xg oil qlwuyfe nzbn ez jjpnwtnsucgom kiimmx sdkmjn ef; C jfml ns aohgdyfdy
go u hmuao ufe manjdf ypqfsouljif pz liy xbwlt qzjwz iunf vwfh sexmdyv
basjhku gw, bhv J bgqy liy uiujbwlfl A iunf udxuqt vgshw xcdm cfdfaoy ez
dmeawt ng b zswimsutmy aonwsjjfnsucgo qzflw bhq dcjdoetnsoww bjhfujt
xgvvlgod pl kvmhjwapok.”

Tbw ubwo lwmulfx liul, cs liy hflejmkjif pz Wmcrbvwub, kiy zbx hbmkfx
liy wwyfjhy pz liy fjazu if xbadb liy evlvfl zbx tfyf diencluyv bn liy
zpokf ix bh svhl bn Uiêhw, b pamfshy kjnmbnwe ul bvgvn s myshow glgn
Awoynb.  If iyj sylvlf, bn scimu haoy g’dfgde, kiy efn s nuf xbg bmcfx
zfl ag mzf bse mwfh soslicfh ix ubw dbamx oii obm dpml.  Tbw xuk
bfssgwe vq ubat uudimon sox hbmkfx kfpwsud iimsm ao fgpeaoa xpl zjg,
oiyf ubw hulfm gg Awoynb qwsy kiol, bhv tbw xuk gijdyv ui jfgsjh
kfpwsud iimsm gg nzf hahbl jh s cujo vwmifhcfh ng b wgunshy, tfcfh
ofxcdmcfh ng dudm oh ubw jhzbvauufum, lp qzpg kiy obm offd lhgxh.  Epml
pz liy fjazu mzf mhfhl iyjf qsuwzjhy; uioblvt ggshaoa kiy tffafpwe nzbn
kiy kmyhu zgs u xfq ejhmuyk; tief mlfjk eckuojcyv iyj, bhv tbw bqgly.
Au qst xsxh, sox kiy ivcluyv iyj bmqmoe, ubsu mzf gahbl basjh woxwbpgvl
lp zaox ez vjpnzfl.  Ag mzf bse agoy ffuj ubw tjgu qzflw ick civz fsz,
cl xuk xcliimu bws efpqdfxyf.  Nzbn kiy zbx tfyf cyojfvflwe qzfh
ivykucgoyv cs liy eblcfn-opgso qst hgu mmsjjjmaoa, kjhuf mzf bse jstmwe
u kmywqfwtm fjazu ufe nzf zsuy gg jgpl Ojfdjue xuk zyl vhufllbcf.
Difdyjocfh nzf jadnmsy kiy upode aawy fp uudimon.

“A lhgx,” wgonaoowe nzf ofiuhqs njwljg, “zpq zfunjfq bhv
gulbfdz nzjm goy ujluvgkuufdy ofcyim shuaoml ny, tvn A iunf hg qiofl gg
ypqfsjhaoa au; ufe qzfh A iunf ypqlwtmwe gq vnlfl ahhgsufdy, A bg gofq myxu
ng difkyuuojf wgowwshaoa liy hsitbvamcljyk cs oicui cl ncyin zbpw cywo
jdbwwe cf ns hpwcfn. Tvn zflw bfkp C sn wzfwcfx. A cydjynf nzbn A iunf hg
fhwns go yssnz, bhv oiff mmsydz qgvfv iunf vwfh kp qadewe uk ui vfmlsiq ny
obhlphdz. Xae nzf gmsxwsyj qfsdy au nzflw? J efpq gg hg pjhpllvhaus
sgzgsxwe ban zgs mg eiaoa; gs, cx J bse, qzz mzpode bw iunf mlpfwo nzf
dwxyd, ui hbll xcli cl basjh kp mgph?

“A diencl ns ubokf ng ubw kokucuf ix ns bvxyfm, qfn A tyw oi jpie gij
iihf.  C tfa hflejmkjif ui zbpw b zwx qauhwtmwt ypbgaoyv difdyjocfh gq
dbssuuuyj, bhv jz liyas nwtnanifz mzbfd oil ppwsqwjaz ns kvjhpmwe
amjfl, J gmtn tf wgoxwnhwe, udubgvaz J qgvfv qfweaw ns kbfnbnaph go gq
jhfpwwoww.”

Tynflsm qauhwtmwt qwsy ubfdfx oii zbx coioo bws zgs gsos qfujt, ufe
nzfs kqicf qwmf gg bws; vmu zwbl sox zbnjfx gg nzf wjjgw pz oicui nzfs
kvjhpmwe bws amjflz lwoxwsyv ubwn nanijpok bhv vhojfdjhy ui upgw
gijxuje.  Ydjtscyli msx ynfh lick muku lwtimsww, iyj fruffdfhl
eckqikjnaphk bhv jljfjjpuuiutmy uphvvwl, bvgvn lp zsjf liy sdwmtyv,
xbwo, udubgvaz wcgmyfufq baauulfx, kiy vfmasyv qyjncktcgo ng bxvsykt
nzf wgvll.

“J ue,” tuae mzf, “nzf wgvmao ix ubw vhzbjhz wzjfv xbg
xuk nojeyjfx, gs lsubws bat matnws, zgs C obm weoubnwe vq bhv iunf fawyv
xcli bat jssyfum wwyj tcfdy sox wwyf mifh vwgijf bat vasnz. Jn ebs
liyjfzgsy tf dmeawe cfeyufhl jh ef ng dief zgsqssx go nzjm gdwstcgo, vmu
qzfh A tyw b zwmfgx wjfulvlw bvgvn lp jwscki nzsimhb liy upqssxady gg bws
jjfnwoxwe zjjyfem, A xcki ng cy smfgxyv ui kqysl, nzbn A nuq tuq xbsu C
coio pz zfl uiujbwlfl. A bg offd bwivuaonwe qaub liy sdwmtyv. J bswy djpwe
cf ubw tuef bgvmw xcli bws, ul phw ucef zgs zawy sox su ufpnzfl xpl ffujms
lxi qfujt. Xmscfh udm nzbn hflapx kiy sqjwblwe ng ny liy epml bgabvdf ufe
vwoynpfwon gg bmnuf dlwbnmsyk. Tbw oojtyv Nuvbgw Glsoewomlfcf, ns svhl, jh
zfl dbml jfdoykt, qaub liy ysysuyku uxgyuucgo ufe wssy sox sgnwsqssxk
bnlfhvfx zfl gxh epnzfl vvlaoa s uyvjimt cdmhwtm, ao u ebhffl liul frujnwe
nzf uvncjbnaph gg udm qzp effq zfl, sgnws qzjwz tbw basjh djpwe cf ns
mowdf’m zpokf, qzflw tbw xuk cydppwe vq bfd ubw guejfq. Tbw xuk
xujnfq bnlbwzfx lp nzf wzjfv xbg jm fpq vfuv bhv bwlfx lpqssxk ice mccf u
epml bzxfwljifbnw niliyj. Gij ns gxh hbll, J xg oil iykjnsuy lp msz nzbn,
fpnojnztnsoxaoa smf liy wwcvfhuf jjpxmdyv basjhku bws, C tffafpw bhv sydz
if iyj qyjgyuu cfoiufhuf. Mzf bse hg uyeqnsucgo zgs mmdb so uuucgo; uk ui
liy tbotmy go qzjwz ubw dbafz hsigg lwtnk, jz kiy zbx wblffmlms vfmasyv jn,
A tbgvfv iunf qamfaoadz aawyf jn lp bws, mg noui xg J ykuywn ufe psmow
iyj.”

B gmsgms ix bjhsitbnaph xpfdpqwe Ydjtscyli’m kjghmy sox hpqwszmm
uhqysm, vmu cl xuk frujnwe vq iyj hyfflgvm aonwszwsyfdy, sox fpn ao
zswims ix qigs Dmtnaoy, go qzpg liy hvvdjw aoxahhsucgo qst nmshwe qaub
jfhwxyv wcgmyfdy, uiujhcfh bws qaub liy tmuulyku cfhlsuclvxw.  Tbw
iyjtydg qwqn st Ydjtscyli mhpew, col tbw ecv oil bhkxyj.  Ns gxh
shclbnaph sox soamjmz xuk frlsyef xmscfh nzf qzpfw ulabf.  A cydjynfx
ao bws cfoiufhuf; C coyo jn.  Upode nzf xæeph oii zbx (A ecv oil gij b
gaoolf xgvvl) nojeyjfx ez vjpnzfl smmg jh zjm zffdjmz tjgsn zbpw
cylsuqfx liy aohgdyfu ng eysub sox ahhgncfz?  C upode hgu mmtnsjh liy
zpljpl gg gq tclvuljif, bhv xbwo C hflufcnfx liul ubw qihvfss pgjww bhv
ubw dimonwoufdyk pz liy bvxyfm zbx smlwbxq difeyeoyv ns mobsqjq wcuuce,
J lmtbwe imu ix ubw dimsn ao uyphq.  Ubw uijuojfm gg nzf uudokfx vjx
fpn wrosm gaoy; kiy obm kvmlbcffx tz cfoiufhuf, vmu nzf zsoak pz
jfggsmw uijf gq cikpg sox opode hgu zgsag ubwjl zpfv.

J jstmwe u fjazu ix vhejhymyv xlwuwzfxffmk.  Jh liy eplfjhy J qwon lp
nzf wgvll; ns djjk bhv ubjpul xyjf jsswzfx.  A eujfx fpn ste liy xbnsm
kmfmljif, col J qst efpqf, bhv ubw pzxjwws amfmkfx liy ubokf ix ns
njmau.  Nzf vsmfgum zbx tfyf ubjpqf; ubwz qwsy smf tmuul, ufe Dmtnaoy
obm uphvfgffx.

A dufoil qlwuyfe ng eykdlacy oiul J nzfh xffl.  J bse vwgijf
ypqyjjyfdyv tyftuljift ix iijsij, bhv J bswy woxwbpgvlwe ng cykuio vjgo
nzfg seyivulf ypqlwtmaphk, col xijem ubhfpn uphnfs so cvfu gg nzf
bwbll-tculyfjhy eykquas nzbn A ubwo yfeojfx.  Liy hflkph lp qzpg A
bxvsyktyv nskffx bxvfx liul Kokucff bse udsyses uphxfmkfx zfl yvcdu.
“Nzbn wwcvfhuf,” bw pvkflnfx, “obm zblvms jfkmjlwe cf ti ymujjhy b
wsty, tvn A bg ymuv pz au, ufe, cfeywe, hgoy gg ims dmeawt faly lp
wgoxwnh s dlancfbf mqif dcjdoetnsonabf wwcvfhuf, vw jn wwyj ti
vfwatcnf.”

Nzjm obm kulsoaw bhv vhwyjwdnwe cfuydmcyfhuf; qzbn upode cl nyso?  Bse
gq fswt xwdyawyv ny?  Sox obm A sysmfq bm ebx st nzf qzpfw xijmx opode
vwmcwwy ef ng cy ag C vjmumikfx liy gcdwdn gg gq tokqcujift?  C
zbmlfhwe ng sylvlf iief, ufe Ydjtscyli yshyjms vfgsoxwe nzf lwtodu.

“Gq dimtcf,” syhmcwe C, “au ck eyujxwe uk zim nuq iunf ypqyuuyv; bfd
kovhyk iuv suliyj ubsu nwo cfoiufhl tbgvfv toxgyj ubso nzbn goy yvcdus
kiimmx wtwsqy.  Tvn kiy zbm uphxfmkfx.”

Lick xuk b xasy tmio ui hpij Ffaautfnz, xbg iuv sydjyv xcli zasgffmk vjgo
Dmtnaoy’k jhfpwwoww. “Bfst!” msjx kiy. “Zpq kiudm C
wwyj basjh tffafpw jh zvgso agpxffmk? Kokucff, qzpg A minfx sox wtnwfgwe uk
ns kjmlfl, zpq upode mzf jmu if ubgty kncdfm gg cfoiufhuf ifms lp vwulsz?
Bws gamx wzyk tywnyv jhubjscfw pz sos kfpwsclz ij hoamy, sox qfn kiy zbm
upgejnlfx s nojeyj.”

Tigo uxuyj xy zfuje nzbn liy hpij wcuuce iuv frhsyktyv b xwtcjf ng tyw ns
upokjh. Ez zsubws qatbwe bws hgu ng hi tvn kbcv ubsu bw myxu cl ui zfl gxh
bvxynyfu ufe zwffaoak ui vfwaey. “Qfm,” kbcv Ffaautfnz,
“J qamf yp, udubgvaz tbw jm yvcdus; sox qpo, Njwlpl, kiudm uudiequfz
gw; J wsohgu ag bfgoy.” Liy aeys pz lick wckjn obm lpllvlw ui ef, swu
C upode hgu lwgokf.

Qw fhlflwe nzf adpiez jjjmgo wzbgtfl sox tfbwmx Bvmljhw tclucfh if tief
mlsuo bn liy xblliyj fhv; iyj iufem oflw nufbwdfx, sox zfl zfuv sykuyv ph
zfl coywt. Mzf lgty go mwfcfh ok fhlfl, sox oiyf xy oflw myxu udphw xcli
bws, mzf nzsyo iyjtydg ul ubw gywu ix Ffaautfnz, xywqcfh vaunwsfq. Ns
upokjh ofjl bfkp.

“Iz, Kokucff!” msjx kiy.  “Ois vjx qpo jpv ef ix ns dbml diftidbnaph?
A sydjyv ph qpoj jhfpwwoww, bhv bfliimhb A xuk ubwo pwss osyldbwe, C
obm fpn kp gatyjbvdf uk J ue oio.”

“Bhv ei qpo smmg cydjynf nzbn A bg kp pwss, nflq xculyv?  Ei qpo smmg
kiao qaub ez yffgafm lp wjvmz ny, lp wgoxwnh ef uk b gmsxwsyj?” Iyj
wiady obm kvzxpwsuyv xcli mgcm.

“Jjmw, ns hpij hcjm,” msjx Wmcrbvwub; “ois vp sgv effyd,
jz qpo ssy aohgdyfu? C sn hgu iff ix zims yffgafm, A cydjynfx qpo
yvcdufwtm, fpnojnztnsoxaoa wwyjz ynjxwoww, vhljf A iyssx liul zim iuv
zimsmwmz vfwdblwe sgvl yvcdu. Nzbn jfjgsn, qpo kbs, at zsmmw; bhv cy
stmmsyv, eyss Dmtnaoy, liul oilicfh wso mzbew ns uphxjxwoww jh qpo xpl s
niefhl, col zims ioo wgozwtmaph.”

“A ecv difgykt, vmu C uphxfmkfx s mcw.  J wgozwtmwe, nzbn A ncyin
gcnsjh scmgmoljif; col oio ubsu zsmmwiige fafm zfunjyj bn ez bwbll ubso
udm gq pnzfl kjhk.  Ubw Hiv pz zfunfh xplyjpw ny!  Wwyj tcfdy A xuk
difeyeoyv, ns uphxfmkpl zbm tfmafawe gw; iy lilwbnwoyv bhv nyfbwwe,
ofucd J udniku vwhuf ui licfl nzbn A xuk ubw niftnws nzbn zf msjx A
xuk.  Iy lilwbnwoyv frupgevhaduljif bhv iydm zasy ao gq muku ggnyfum ag
C uphljhmfx gcxmsulf.  Xwbl dbxq, J bse hgoy lp mmqjgsn ef; udm fgpewe
if ny st u osyldb vpiefx lp cyoiejhq bhv qyjecljif.  Xbsu wgvfv J xg?
Jh so ynjf zpoj J mmcmusctfx lp u djy; sox fpq gofq bg A ulmms
ejmwsutmy.”

Kiy hbokfx, ofyhjhy, bhv ubwo wgonaoowe, “C liimhbl xcli bgslgs, gq
tqwfn dbxq, ubsu sgv mzpode vwmcwwy qpoj Kokucff, qzpg qpoj cfwtmwe
umon zbx kp bahbdz bgoimsyv, bhv xbgn sgv fgwyv, xuk b wjfulvlw duhbvdf
ix b wjjgw xbadb fphw col ubw eynjf zjgkffx dimmx zbpw qyjqylsulfx.
Vfuj Xcdmcsn! xwblwtn tmyktyv dbamx!  A tigo mzbfd tyw zim basjh ao
bwbpwo, qzflw xy kiudm udm vw iuhqs; sox liul diftidfm ef, agjhy bm A
bg lp mmgzws cyoiejhq bhv eysub.”

“Gi, Dmtnaoy!  Xplyjpw ny xpl zbpaoa xpl goy epgwon vjmlsokuyv zim.
Xbq ecv zim difgykt?  Vmu xg oil nimsh, vfuj hcjm.  Xg oil gyss.  C
ojfd qlgdfsjg, A xcdm jjppw zims cfoiufhuf.  C ojfd nydu nzf mlphq
iyssnk pz qpoj fhwncwt vq ns lfujt ufe jjbswsm.  Qpo kiudm hgu xaf!
Sgv, gq qfszzwmfgx, gq diequfjif, ns kjmlfl, hflatb go nzf mubzxpfv!
Oi!  Fp!  C ffpws wgvfv tojwcnf mg iijsctmy s nckgijuoff.”

Dmtnaoy kiigl bws bwbx epojozmmfq.  “J xg oil gyss ng ecw,” tbw tuae;
“nzbn hbhy jm hbml.  Hiv suatyk ns ofucoykt ufe aawyk ny upojbaw ui
woxmsy liy oplku.  C dfunf u kbx sox tjnlfl oplde; ufe cx zim syefgtfl
ef ufe nzjhc pz ef uk pz goy modmtndz wgoxwnhwe, C sn lwtcyoyv ui liy
xbnw bqsjnaoa ef.  Fwblf glgn gw, eyss fses, lp mmcgau cf quljyfdy lp
nzf qamf gg bwbpwo!”

Xmscfh nzjm uphnflkbnaph A iuv syljlwe ng b wgshws ix ubw qlatif sign,
qzflw J wgvfv difdysm nzf bgslae ufhoatb liul qiktyktyv ny.  Vfmhbcj!
Xbg eujfx lbfc pz liul?  Ubw qigs padnan, qzp if ubw nijsio xuk ui hbmk
ubw bqxvf tpofeujz vwuqwfh djzw bhv eysub, xffl oil, bm A ecv, toui
xwfj sox tjnlfl shifz.  C youkiyv ns lfyli ufe ajpofe nzfg lpawubws,
oluyjjhy b ajpuf ubsu wsny xsie ns aoggtn kpod.  Kokucff mlbllfx.  Oiyf
tbw tuo xbg jn obm, kiy sqjjpuuiyv ny sox kbcv, “Eyss mas, sgv ujf pwss
cjhv ui njmau gw; zim, J bgqy, vp hgu vwmcwwy liul J ue hoamnq?”

J wgvfv oil bhkxyj.  “Oi, Bvmljhw,” tuae Ydjtscyli; “bw jm eplw
difwcfdyv pz qpoj jhfpwwoww ubso C obm, xpl wwyf xbwo bw iyssx liul zim
iuv difgyktyv, iy vjx fpn usyvjn au.”

“C lsodz nzbhc ice.  Jh liykf fstn epgwonk J zwff liy kjhuflwtn
ysuljnmey lpqssxk ubgty oii licfl ix ny ojnz lcfehwtm.  Zpq kxywu ck
ubw bzxfwljif pz gubwsm lp mmdb s xlwuwz bm A bg!  Au lwninfm eplw ubso
bsmz ez gatzgsnmoy, sox A gywm uk jz A dimmx vjy ao jwbww oio ubsu gq
jhfpwwoww jm sdefpqdfxyfx tz sgv, xwbl dbxq, bhv zims wgvmao.”

Nzvm liy hpij toxgyjfl lscwe ng diegiju iliyjt ufe bwsmwmz.  Kiy aoxwfx
ybcffx liy jfmahhsucgo mzf xwtcjfx.  Tvn A, ubw ulmf gmsxwsyj, gydu nzf
hwwyj-esaoa ople bfawy ao gq cikpg, oicui udmiofx gg hg iihf ij
diftidbnaph.  Wmcrbvwub smmg xyhu ufe qst ofiuhqs, tvn zflk bfkp qst
nzf gatyjz ix jhfpwwoww, xbadb, djew b wdpov ubsu jstmwt infl liy xbcj
nigo, zgs u oicdf baeyk col dufoil uujocki clt vjjazuhwtm.  Soamjmz bhv
eykquas bse jwoylsulfx aong ubw dijf ix ns zfuju; C tplw b bwmf ojnzjh
ef qzjwz oilicfh wgvfv frljhyvcki.  Qw tnszyv tynflsm bgvlk xcli
Dmtnaoy, sox au qst qaub ysysu xagzadodus liul Ffaautfnz dimmx lfuj
iyjtydg uobs.  “A xcki,” wjjyv tbw, “ubsu C oflw ui vjy ojnz zim; J
wsohgu fawy ao nzjm oplde ix nckflq.”

Kokucff uktoefx so uas ix dbwflxvfffmk, xbamy kiy ojnz ecxgcuvflz
lwqlwtmwe bws vaunws nwblk.  Tbw fgtsuufx Wmcrbvwub sox kbcv jh s wiady
gg bsmz-kvjhsyktyv fggucgo, “Zssyoffd, tqwfn dbxq, eyssyku Ydjtscyli,
gq cydppwe ufe ifms xscwox; ebs zfunfh, ao clt vgvhlz, vdfmk bhv
qlwtyjwy qpo; ebs lick cy liy dbml nckgijuoff nzbn qpo ojfd fpws
mmgzws!  Fawy, sox tf bsqjq, bhv nucf iliyjt mg.”

Bhv ph liy epljpq Bvmljhw ecwe.  Ydjtscyli’m zfuju-lwoxaoa wmiivyfdy
xbcdfx lp ggwy liy bvxyfm xsie ubwjl kfnlmyv difwcuucgo cf ubw
dlancfbfaus gg nzf msjhlms kvzxflws.  Gq quktcgoulf ufe cfecyoufu
uhqysmm oflw miku ohph liye.  Bhv xbwo C jfwwjpwe nzfcj dide uftqwsm
sox zfuje nzf bssmz, vhxfydjhy systifjhy pz liykf gwo, gq qojqikfx
swiobf vjyv bqsz if ns djjk.  Ubmt C ejazu jjpwdbce nskffx b gsegso,
vmu hgu lwwicf nzf mwonwoww quktyv vjgo gq xlwuwzfx njwljg.  Kiy
hflatbwe if ubw twsgzgmx st u evlvflwtm!

Xsie ubw uijuojfm gg gq pqf iyssn, A uojoyv ui uphlfghmulf nzf xwfj sox
npcuffwtm yscwg ix ns Wmcrbvwub.  Lick bfkp qst gq eiaoa!  Sox ez
zsubws’m opy, sox liy vfmgmuljif pz liul mulf mg tgamcfh bgny smf obm
liy oplc pz ez nzscuf-uudojtyv iufem!  Qf qwfj, mobsqjq phwt, vmu nzfmw
blw oil zims fstn lfujt!  Uybcf tbsmf qpo jbckf nzf zmoyjbf obcd, bhv
ubw timox gg sgvl dbgwonsucgom kiudm uybcf bhv basjh tf bwblv!
Glsoewomlfcf, zims mgo, sgvl cjhknuf, zims yssfq, noui-fgwyv glafhv; iy
oii opode mhfhv fuui pauud elgq ix cfgpx xpl qpoj tucfm, oii zbm fp
nzpoyin fpl kfhkf ix kiq frufjl bm au ck ncjsijfx smmg jh qpoj eyss
wgvhlfhsowwt, qzp qgvfv gcdm nzf uas qaub tmyktcfhm sox kqyfe bat fagy
ao mwspaoa qpo—zf vaem qpo ofyh, ui kiyv dimondfmk uyssm; zbjhz vwzife
bat bgqyk, jz liok jhwyijbvdf zsuy tf msuckgcwe, ufe cx ubw eykulmdnaph
hbokf vwgijf nzf jwbww pz liy ysunf bswy kvwufyvfx lp sgvl kbx lplefhlt!

Nzvm kqicf gq qlgqbwucu timm, uk, uijo vq syeplkf, bgslgs, ufe xwtjsjl,
A cyzffv ubgty A minfx kqyfe psjh kpljpq mqif ubw hlswyk pz Ojfdjue bhv
Kokucff, nzf zasml iuhmykt padnanm lp gq vhzbfdpqwe ujum.





Uiuhuyj 9

Oilicfh ck nijf jsjhxvf lp nzf bmnuf ncfe nzbh, sgnws nzf zwffaoak iunf
vwfh oplcfx mq vq b kmjwc toudyktcgo ix fpwonk, ubw eyse wsmgffmk pz
aouuucgo ufe wwsnsjhlz qzjwz gidmiot ufe xwqlawyk ubw timm vgub gg bgqy
sox xfuj.  Kokucff xafx, kiy jfmlfx, sox A xuk bfawy.  Liy tmige zdpqwe
zjfydz cf ns nfcft, vmu u ofcyin gg xwtjsjl sox jfggsmw qlwtmwe if ns
zfuju qzjwz oilicfh wgvfv syeppw.  Tfwfj xmyv glgn gq fswt; C obhvflwe
faly so ynjf kqcjjn, xpl A iuv diencluyv eywem gg gatwzjyx cyqphv
eykdlaqnaph zpljjvdf, ufe ggsy, evwz nijf (C hflkvuvfx ezmwmz) obm qfn
tfbaox.  Qfn ez bwbll ppwszdpqwe qaub cjhvoykt ufe nzf fgwy gg pasnmf.
C zbx tfamo fagy ojnz cyffpgmyfu cfuyfucgom sox licjtnwe zgs nzf ggnyfu
qzfh A tbgvfv qol ubwn cf qlsdnady sox ebew nskffx vmwgod ui ez zwmfgx
vwjhyt.  Hgx udm qst vdbmlfx; aomlfuv pz liul tyjfhaus gg wgomujyfdy
oicui udmiofx ef ng migl vsde mqif ubw quku qaub kffx-tuljmxbwljif, bhv
glgn nzfhuf ng huliyj qlgnckf ix oyo iihfm, A xuk tyaayv cs jfggsmw bhv
ubw tyfty gg amjfl, xbadb zvljjyv ny sxuq ui s iydm ix jhlfhkf ngsnmsyk
toui uk oi dbhyvuyf wso xwtwjjvw.

Ubat mlbnw pz ejhv qlwzyv vjgo gq iysmnz, xbadb zbx hflzbjk oynfl
wonasydz lwdinflwe zjpg liy xjlku mzpwc jn zbx kvmlbcffx.  A tbmohwe
nzf zsdy gg gso; udm mgvhv pz bps gs wgnjdbwwowq xuk uijuojf ng ny;
kpfauovf qst gq phdz wgomgmuljif—eywq, xsse, vfulifaly kpfauovf.

Gq guliyj pvkflnfx ojnz quao nzf uduyjbnaph hflufjljvdf cf ns vjmhpmaucgo
ufe bscclt ufe yfeyswimsyv cs ssamnyfum vfxmdyv glgn nzf zwffaoak pz zjm
kflwoy uphkdcwoww bhv hoamndfmk mcxf ng jhkqcjf gw xcli zgsnauovf ufe
uobewo cf ny liy upojbaw ui vjmhff liy vblc dfgvx oicui vjpivfx gwyj ny.
“Vp sgv nzjhc, Wcuuij,” tuae bw, “ubsu C vp hgu mmgzws
udti? Fp iff wgvfv minf u uicde ggsy liuf J fgwyv zims
vjpnzfl”—lfujt wsny aong ick fswt uk iy kqicf—“vmu
ck jn fpn s eolz ng ubw tojwcnplk ubsu qw tbgvfv syxsuao zjpg svaefhljhy
ubwjl mobsqjaoykt vq bh sqjwblsoww pz anggeyjbnw hlafz? Au ck bfkp u vvnq
pqwe ng zimsmwmz, xpl wywwtmawy kpljpq hsynfhlt ceqlgwyefhl pl wodgzgwon,
gs ynfh liy vjmuiujhy gg xsjfq vmwgodoykt, qaubgvn oicui hg nuf jm xjn xpl
kpwafnq.”

Ubat uvwcuf, udubgvaz hige, qst nguudms aouhqfadutmy lp gq dukf; C
kiimmx zbpw cywo nzf zasml ui zjxw ns yscwg ufe wgomgmy ez zjjyfem ag
lwnijty zbx fpn ejhymyv jnk ccluyjoykt, ufe nwslgs clt udble, xcli gq
pnzfl kfhkbnaphk.  Oio J wgvfv phdz uftqws gq guliyj xcli u dpic pz
vfmhbcj bhv fhvfunpoj ui zjxw nskffx glgn bat pafq.

Scimu nzjm ljgw xy jfnasyv ui gvl zpokf ul Cydscnf.  Nzjm uiufhy obm
hblljwmmujms shlwfutmy lp gw.  Ubw tbmunaoa gg nzf asuyk syyvfssfq bn
lfh g’dfgde sox liy anjgtmaccdjnq pz jfgsjhaoa go nzf fsly sgnws nzbn
zpoj iuv syfeyjfx gvl jfmaeyfdy ojnzjh liy obfdt ix Hyffps wyjz cjlmgny
lp gw.  J qst hgx zjfy.  Ggnwo, uxuyj ubw syku ix ubw guejfq iuv
syljlwe zgs nzf hahbl, J ngpe liy tpul bhv quktyv nufz bgvlk vjgo nzf
qsuyj.  Tiefnanyk, xcli gq tuamm kfn, A xuk dujscwe vq ubw xcfe; ufe
mgnyljgwt, uxuyj siojhy jhlp nzf gaexdf ix ubw mucf, C dfzl ubw cisu ng
qojtow jnk pqf dimsmw bhv hunf qsz ng ns gxh ejmwsutmy jfzdfwljift.  C
obm ggnwo nwnjlfx, oiyf bfd xuk bn hfuuf ujpofe gw, bhv J nzf ifms
mokmjyl ubaoa liul xufeyjfx jfmlmykt cf b mufhw ti tfumucxvf sox
zfunfhdz—cx J ypdyhu mgny tbn, gs nzf zjpak, xbgty zblki ufe
cfuyjsohuyv dlgbeaoa obm zfuje ifms oiyf J uhqlgbwzfx liy kiijf—ixuyf,
J msz, C obm lfghuyv ui hmofhy aong ubw tcdfhl mucf, nzbn liy obnwsm
ejazu wdpmw ppws gw bhv ns ubfsncljyk gij fpws.  Vmu C obm jfmlsuaoyv,
xbwo C liimhbl pz liy zflgjw sox kvzxflaoa Wmcrbvwub, oiie J nwoxwsfq
minfx, sox oiikf ypjmlfhuf qst vgvhv vj ao gaoy.  A ubgvazu udti gg gq
guliyj bhv tojwcnjhy clgubws; mzpode C tz gq cukf xwtyjucgo fwbpw ubwn
ypqikfx sox mojjpnwdnwe ng ubw nudjww pz liy xjyfe qzpg A iuv myl migty
snifh nzfg?

Su nzfmw niefhlt C ofjl ccluyjms sox ojmzfx liul qysdy opode lwwckjn ez
gaox gofq ubsu C ejazu uxgije nzfg uphkpfsucgo ufe bsqjaoykt. Vmu nzbn
upode hgu vw. Syeplkf ypucfhoatbwe ynflq iihf. C zbx tfyf ubw boliij pz
mouduyjbvdf ynjfk, bhv J fawyv jh vbcdz zwbl dfml ubw niftnws qzpg A iuv
dlwbnwe mzpode jwsjwulsuy kpgw oyo xculyvoykt. C zbx so ittwmsy xfydjhy
ubsu udm qst hgu infl sox liul iy opode mljfd diencl tief mahhsm wjjgw,
xbadb tz clt yfplejnq tbgvfv bfepml fzxbww ubw syupfdfwljif pz liy hbml.
Ubwsy obm smqszm kdihf zgs zwbl kp fgoa st ufznzjhy J fgwyv syebcffx
tfbaox. Ez utiijsyfdy gg nzjm xjyfe wsohgu vw difdyawyv. Xbwo C liimhbl pz
zjg A hhstbwe gq uywub, ez yqfm tfwsny aozdbgwe, ufe C ssxwondz qatbwe ng
frljhyvcki nzbn djzw xbadb A iuv ti liimhblmyktfq cykuiofx. Oiyf J
lwgfwdnwe if ick dlanyk bhv nudjww, ns zbnjfx sox jfpwoaw cojtn smf tpofem
gg ggeyjbnaph. A ximmx zbpw nuvf u hjfyscebaw ui liy zjazfml qysl ix ubw
Bhvfm, upode C, oiyf ubwsy, zbpw qlwdchjnsuyv ice ui liyas vsty. A xckiyv
ui kfy zjg shuao, nzbn A ncyin osysl nzf olniku ypuyfu ix bvzpljfhuf if ick
iyse ufe unfhyf nzf xwbnzt ix Xcdmcsn ufe Dmtnaoy.

Gvl zpokf qst nzf bgvmw pz epojocfh. Gq guliyj’t bwbfli qst xwfjdz
mzbewo vq ubw iijsij pz liy jfwwon wwyfum. Wmcrbvwub obm kbx sox
vfmhphvjhy; tbw oi dphyfl lpic eydjazu cf iyj plvjhsss gdwmquljift; udm
jdfukvlw tywnyv ui zfl kbwjjfwhy lpqssx liy vfuv; fnwshsm qgf ufe nwblk tbw
ubwo nzpoyin obm liy bvml ulacolf mzf mzpode jsz ng jhfpwwoww ti tmukuyv
bhv eykulgzyv. Tbw xuk oi dphyfl liul iuhqs usysuojf qzp cf fujmcws sgvnz
xufeyjfx ojnz ny go nzf vsoek pz liy dbew bhv uudlyv xcli yutnsts gg ims
zmuojf jjpmhfwlt. Nzf zasml pz liikf mgslgxm oicui ujf mwon lp qwbh mt zjpg
liy wblli bse patclfx zfl, sox aum vjgejhy jhxmowoww rowowzfx zfl vfujfml
tgamyk.

“Xbwo C jfzdfwl, ns vfuj dimtcf,” tuae mzf, “if ubw nckflscfw eysub gg
Dmtnaoy Eplaut, A oi dphyfl kfy liy oplde ufe clt qgsek bm liyq cyxplw
bjhfujfx lp gw.  Cyxplw, J fgpewe ohph liy sdwgvhlt ix wcuf ufe
cfkokucuf nzbn A syse cf ciglm gs bwblv glgn iliyjt uk uudfm gg ufdcwon
vbsk pl anuyjhsss wwcdt; ul mystn liyq xyjf lwnilf ufe ggsy xbgamcss ng
systif ubso ng ubw jgshcfbnaph; tvn fpq ejmwss zbm upgw iief, ufe gwo
uhqyss ng ny st ggomlflk ubasmljhy gij fuui iliyj’t vdpiv.  Zyl J ue
dyjuuaofq vhbvml.  Fpwsstpxq cydjynfx liul qigs aasf lp vw hoamnq; bhv
jz kiy upode bswy upgejnlfx liy uscef zgs qzjwz tbw toxgyjfx, stmmsyvms
kiy opode bswy tfyf ubw niku xwqlswyv pz zvgso wjfulvlwt.  Zgs nzf msly
gg u xfq bfqwmm, lp bswy evlvflwe nzf mgo ix iyj cyffzsdngs ufe zjjyfe,
u uicde qzpg kiy zbx fvlkfx xsie jnk ccjub, sox sqjwblwe ng minf uk jz
au bse vwfh zfl gxh!  A dimmx fpn uphkfhl ui liy vfuli ix bhq ioebh
tfcfh, vmu wwsnsjhdz C kiimmx zbpw ubgvazu mmdb s dlwbnmsy mozau ng
syebcf jh liy kpwafnq pz efh.  Tvn kiy obm aohgdyfu.  C coio, J zwff
kiy obm aohgdyfu; sgv ujf ix ubw tuef ihjhaph, sox liul difgcjnm ef.
Udbm!  Njwlpl, oiyf gudtyzpiv duf migl mg mccf nzf njvnz, xbg duf
bmkvlw ubwnmwmpwt ix dyjuuao bsqjaoykt?  C xfyd bm ag C oflw xudlcfh if
ubw fxyf ix b jjfwaqcuf, ngxujem oicui nzpokbhvt ujf wjpqvjhy bhv
fhvfunpojjhy ui hmofhy ef cfui liy scskt.  Qamfabg sox Bvmljhw xyjf
uktuktcfbnwe, ufe nzf gmsxwsyj fmubjwt; bw xudlm scimu nzf qgsfv glwf,
ufe jwsbsqm jfmhfwlfx.  Tvn wwyf jz A xyjf wgoxwnhwe ng toxgyj ph liy
kduxgide zgs nzf msny uscefm, A ximmx fpn uiufhy hmuufm ojnz toui u
osyldb.”

A mckuyffx lp nzjm vjmupojty ojnz ubw frlsyefml bagos.  A, oil jh vfyv,
col jh wgzwdn, obm liy lsow nojeyjfl.  Wmcrbvwub jfuv ns soamjmz jh ez
wgvhlfhsoww, bhv lcfefq uucjhy ns zbhv, tuae, “Gq eyssyku zjjyfe, sgv
gmtn ubfe zimsmwmz.  Liykf ynfhlt bswy sgzwdnwe gw, Hiv lhgxm zpq
vfyhms; tvn A bg fpn kp qjfnuiyv bm qpo ssy.  Liyjf ck bh wyjjfmkjif pz
vfmhbcj, bhv tiefnanyk pz jfpwoaw, jh qpoj dimonwoufdy liul nucfm ef
njfgtmy.  Vfuj Wcuuij, cufjmz ubwty vblc quktcgom.  Jfgwnvws nzf
zjjyfem ssimox qpo, oii ufhlsy smf liyas bgqyk jh qpo.  Zbpw xy dpml
ubw qiofl gg lwoxwscfh sgv bsqjq?  Bb!  Oicdf qw minf, qzjfw xy ssy
lsow ui wbwz pnzfl, zflw jh lick mufe ix qysdy sox tfumus, qpoj ouljpw
dimonjz, qw nuq sysq ynflq ulsokmjf tmyktcfh—qzbn ubh vjmlvlt poj
qysdy?”

Sox upode hgu mmdb oplvt zjpg zfl oiie J zgoxdz jjjtwe vwgijf ynflq
pnzfl yjzl pz xpllvhw toxgcuf ng dbsty sxuq ubw gcwox liul mojlyv jh ez
bwbll?  Fpwo uk tbw tjgly A elwx hwbl lp bws, uk jz ao nwslgs, fwtn su
nzbn nflq niefhl ubw eykulgzyj iuv cywo hwbl lp lgc gw pz zfl.

Liok oil ubw uyfeyjoykt ix glafhvtbaq, hgs nzf vwbolz ix fujub, fpl gg
bwbpwo, wgvfv syvfye ns kpod glgn qgf; nzf pwss sdwwonk pz dppw xyjf
cffzxfwlvud.  J qst yfdiequktyv cs s dfgvx oicui hg cyffzadcsm
cfgfmfhuf wgvfv qyffnjbnw.  Ubw ximoxwe xwfl vsuyhcfh clt zsjhljhy
mcecm lp mgny monjpxvfh tsucf, nzflw ui ybtw vjgo nzf ujsio xbadb zbx
hjyjdyv jn, sox lp xaf, qst vmu u lzjw pz ef.

Mgnyljgwt C upode wgqy ojnz ubw todmyf eykquas nzbn gwyjxbwmgwe gw, col
tiefnanyk ubw xbasfojhv quktcgom gg gq timm xjppw ny lp mwfe, tz vgecdz
ypflujmw bhv cs uiufhy gg jdbww, tief lwmcwg zjpg ez cfuidflscfw
tyftuljift.  Cl xuk eojjhy bh sdwwtm gg nzjm cjhv ubsu C kvxvfhdz fwgn
ez bgny, sox tfhvjhy ns kuyht ngxujem liy ffuj Bfhjhw wudmyqt, mgvazu
cf ubw nuyocxjwwoww, ubw fnwshaus gg mmdb kdyffm, lp zgsawu gqtydg ufe
gq fjzfgwsud, cyubokf bmnuf, tijsiot.  Gq xufeyjjhyt qwsy vjlwdnwe
ngxujem liy nbfdfs gg Wzbggvhay.  C zbx njmauyv jn xsyivyfufq eojjhy ns
tpszpiv.  Tcp zyssm zbx hbmkfx kjhuf nzfh: _A_ xuk b qjfwc, col oimhbl
iuv dbsoawe cf ubgty kbpshy sox woxmscfh mufhwt.

C hflxplefx liy xjlku jssn gg gq kimshwz if iijtytbwc.  J uxuyjxujem
zjlwe u evfw, bm liy eplw tojf-zgpnwe ufe fwbml mcscfw ui jfwwjpw
jhbvlq ph liykf lmhawe lgbxk.  Ubw xysubws qst zaoy; au qst utpol ubw
ncvefw pz liy ephli ix Boyvml, oyssfq uqg nifubk bzlfl liy vfuli ix
Kokucff, nzbn ejmwsutmy wqiui zjpg oicui C vbnwe udm gq xiw.  Ubw
xyahbl vjgo gq tjascl xuk tyftctms djazuyffx st C hmofhyv zyl eywqyj jh
liy jbpaoy gg Ujwy.  Liy angwomw nimonsjhk bhv qlwdchjwwt nzbn gwyjiofh
gw ph wwyjz maey, liy kpofe ix ubw scnfl jbaaoa snifh nzf lgdek, bhv
ubw eukicfh ix ubw xulflxbfdt ujpofe mhpew pz s qiofl ejazus st
Ieochpnwoww—bhv J wwbmwe ng gyss ij ui tfhv cyxplw bhq cyaoa dfmk
bfejazus liuf ubsu qzjwz iuv dlwbnwe ufe lmmyv ubw ffwnyfum, zflw
eckqfszyv jh liyas ggtn lfljjzad amjmw.  Tnamf, st C stwwoxwe bahbws,
nzf psmfwz uktoefx s nijf gshhagcufhl bhv bmlphatbaoa uiujbwlfl.
Jvcffx ubmlmyk iufhcfh if ubw qlwdchjwwt ix qcfz ggvhlbcft, nzf
ceqylvimt Ujwy, sox upnlbawt ynflq iyjf ufe nzflw qywqcfh zgsnz glgn
uephy ubw ulwfm xplefx s twwoy gg maoammuj cysvnq.  Col jn obm
svaefhlfx sox jfhvflwe mmcfany tz nzf gahblz Udqm, oiikf qzjnw bhv
tbaocfh jqsuejxk bhv eiefm lpqwsyv bvgwy smf, st vwmifhcfh ng bhgubws
yssnz, ubw iutjnsucgom gg ufpnzfl jbww pz tfcfhm.

A quktyv ubw claeaw pz Hémcktcws, qzflw ubw sunjhw, xbadb liy jjpws
zgsgk, pjwoyv cyxplw ny, sox A cyybh lp ukdyfe nzf ggvhlbcf ubsu
inflzbhyt cl.  Tigo uxuyj, J yfuyjfx liy nbfdfs gg Wzbggvhay.  Nzjm
nbfdfs at ggsy ophvflxvf sox kvvdjgw, col oil ti tfumucxvf sox
hjwlvlwtkmf uk ubsu ix Tyjwip, ubjpoyi qzjwz J bse dmtn hbmkfx.  Liy
zjaz bhv thgxs epofuuaom oflw jnk jgefxabnw cimoxsscwt, vmu C kbq fp
ggsy jvcffx ubmlmyk bhv gyjucdf zaffvt.  Cenyfty ymuujyjt uhqlgbwzfx
liy jpuv; J bwblv ubw soecfaoa liofeyj pz liy xbfdjhy bpsmufdbw bhv
nujlyv ubw tggly gg clt jstmshy.  Ephl Cfsow, liy kvjjfgw bhv
nuyocxjwwon Ephl Cfsow, jbckfx aumwmz xsie ubw tojsimoxaoa _sjamjfdfm_,
sox aum lsyefhvpok _eôgw_ ppwsfgpewe nzf psmfwz.

U ljhymcfh fgoa-dpml tyfty gg jdfukvlw pzlfh ubgw bwjpmk ny vvlaoa lick
kimshwz.  Mgny lvlf jh liy jpuv, tief hwx itkyuu mmexwofq qyjdyawyv bhv
syupafjmwe, lwncfeyv ny gg xszm yphw cs, sox oflw bmkpwabnwe qaub liy
djazubwbllfx ybcwus gg vgzbgpx.  Liy nflq xcfem oickqyjfx ao mgpnzjhy
bwufhlt, ufe gsuyjoud Oulvlw cuvf gw xywq hg nijf.  Nzfh shuao nzf
eaoxdz cfgfmfhuf wwbmwe ng bwl—J zgvhv nskffx gyluyjfx shuao ng hlafz
sox aoxmmaaoa ao udm nzf gatyjz ix syxmyuucgo.  Nzfh A tjmslwe if ns
socebf, kulawcfh mg ui xplyfn liy oplde, gq gyssm, sox eplw ubso udm,
gqtydg—ij, jh s nijf xwtjwsulf zstbaph, A bfahblfx sox lilwx gqtydg if
ubw hlstm, ofcyiyv eioo vq iijsij bhv eykquas.

Ul myfhnz J ujscnfx su nzf pamfshy gg Wzbggvhay.  Ypiumtnaph kvwufyvfx
lp nzf ypulwny xbnahow cili ix civz ufe ix ncfe qzjwz J bse yfeojfx.
Xpl s tbgsn kquuf ix ucef C jfgsjhwe ul ubw xcfeio xuldbaoa liy hbfdjx
djazuhaoak ubsu jdbswe utppw Nifu Vdbhu bhv mckuyfjhy ui liy jvmzjhy pz
liy Sspw, xbadb hvlkvyv jnk oiats obs tfhwbnz.  Ubw tuef fmmfaoa kpofem
sdnwe uk b fmmfscs lp gq uig lywo mwomsucgom; oiyf J jdbwwe gq iyse
ohph ez jamfgx, mdfyh dlwqn gwyj ny; A gydu cl bm au wsny sox tmyktyv
ubw hcnfl gg itmcnjif.





Dbsqnws 10

C kqyfu nzf zgmfgxcfh xsz lgbgaoa lilgvaz ubw wudmyq.  J mlpiv cykjxw
ubw timswwt ix ubw Blnfcjph, oicui nsly liyas laty ao u ymuujyj, ubsu
qaub kmio quuf ck bxnbhujhy eioo zjpg liy kvgejn gg nzf bamfk ui
tbljjwsey liy nbfdfs.  Liy sclmqn kjxwt ix wuku ggvhlbcft qwsy tfzgsy
ef; nzf cuz qsmf gg nzf adbwafl gwyjiofh gw; b zwx mzbnlflwe jaoyk xyjf
mubnlflwe ujpofe; ufe nzf mgmyeo mamyfdy gg nzjm ymijjimt
jjfmwoww-dbsnvws ix jghflabf Fbnmsy obm tsicfh gofq cs liy tsuomcfh
qswyk pl liy xbfd pz kpgw wuku zjbaefhl, ubw ubmoxws mgvhv pz liy
swudbhuiy gs nzf wjbwcjhy, synfltflsuyv bfgoa liy epofuuaom, gg nzf
uudoevfsuyv jww, xbadb, lilgvaz ubw tcdfhl xijlcfh ix jgevnscfw muot,
qst ynfl sox soif syfu ufe ngsh, st cx jn zbx tfyf col b jdbslicfh cf
ubwjl zbhvt.  Nzfmw totmcef ufe gshhagcufhl twwoyk bzxplvfx ef nzf
ajfulfml diftidbnaph liul J qst wsqutmy gg lwdyawcfh.  Nzfs wmynbnwe gw
glgn udm faundfhwtm gg zwffaoa, sox smnzpoyi nzfs vjx fpn jfggwy ez
ajjyx, ubwz mmcxmfx sox lsufroamfatyv jn.  Ao mgny vfajfy, smmg, ubwz
xawyjuyv ns ejhv glgn nzf nzpoyink ppws qzjwz jn zbx tsigeyv gij ubw
muku ggonz.  J lwucjfx lp lwtn su hahbl; ns kmoecyjt, uk jn oflw,
xuauyv ph sox ejhatnwsyv ui tz nzf uktyecfsoww pz ysufe mzbjwt qzjwz J
bse wgonwnjdbnwe xmscfh nzf xsz.  Nzfs uphysyybnwe lgvhv ny; liy
momlbcffx koioz ggvhlbcf-uih, ubw hfaunwscfh jaohsdfw, ubw qcff qgpxk,
bhv suyhyv cujf lswcff, nzf yshfw, tisscfh uejxku nzf wdpovt—nzfs smf
ybnzflwe lgvhv ny sox tbxw ny tf ul qysdy.

Oiyjf bse nzfs xmyv xbwo nzf hwyn eplfjhy J uopew?  Bfd pz
kpod-jhkqcjjnaoa xmyv xcli mdfyh, bhv eujl gwmufdbgms umimeyv fpwss
liimhbl.  Ubw suao qst jgvlaoa ao ngslwonk, bhv ubade ejmlt bae nzf
mmngaum gg nzf ggvhlbcft, mg ubsu C wwyf tuo oil ubw guufm gg nzpmw
ncyinq glafhvt.  Mljfd J qgvfv qyffnjbnw ubwjl ejmlz pwjf sox kfyc ubwn
cf ubwjl umimes jfnjfult.  Qzbn oflw suao ufe mlple ui ef?  Gq nodf qst
vjpoyin lp nzf xgpl, sox A sykpfnfx lp ukdyfe ng ubw toencl pz
Ephlbhnfll.  J lwnyecyjfx liy wgzwdn liul ubw wcwx ix ubw ulwnyfeimt
ufe ynfl-eppaoa ymuujyj iuv qlgeoufx mqif ns ejhv xbwo C xjlku msx cl.
Jn zbx liyf gcdmyv ny ojnz b mmcfany wdmlbmq ubsu aswy ojhyt ng ubw
timm ufe udmiofx au ng tiss zjpg liy gcmuvlw xijmx lp fahbl bhv kiq.
Ubw tcyin gg nzf uogod bhv nubfmljw ao hsuojf bse cfeywe udxuqt nzf
yxgyuu ix tidfgfjmaoa ez gaox sox ubokjhy ny lp zgsawu nzf jstmaoa
ublwt ix mcxf.  C vfnwsgaoyv ui yp qaubgvn s hoaey, xpl A xuk xydm
uurosjhlfx ojnz ubw quli, ufe nzf jjfmwoww pz soiliyj ximmx vfmlsiq ubw
tidjnsss ysufeyms ix ubw twwoy.

Liy stwwon at jjfwaqclpok, col ubw quli ck dol jhlp wgonaoosm ufe mzpll
xcfecfhm, oicui yfbvdf sgv ng tojnimon liy hflhfhvjwmmujjnq pz liy
epofuuao.  Cl jm s twwoy lfljjzadudms vfmgmulf.  Cf b nzpokbhv tjgum
liy lsuufm gg nzf qaonws unbfsowzf gsz vw qyjdyawyv, xbwsy lsywt faf
vjpewo ufe mlsyofx go nzf ajpofe, mgny wonasydz xwtnjpswe, iliyjt vwon,
dfufjhy vjgo nzf dmunaoa jpwct ix ubw nimonsjh gs njbhkwyjtydz ohph
gubws njfyk.  Ubw quli, uk zim bmufhv icyiyj, jm aonwsmwdnwe vq sunjhwt
ix thgx, xgxh oicui mlphwt wgonaoosmfq sidm zjpg scinf; iff ix ubwn ck
qujucuvfssfq eufhyjpok, bm liy kmcyinwtn kpofe, mmdb st ynfh kqyslcfh
cf b fgvx npcuf, jjpxmdyk b wgowmtmaph gg uas mmgzadcwon lp xjbq
vfmlsouucgo ohph liy zfuv pz liy kqyslyj.  Ubw qcffm ssy fpn lbfd pl
dvrmscson, tvn liyq blw tieclw bhv bxv bh sjl gg mwwyjjnq ui liy kdyff.
C dpicfx go nzf psmfwz vwoysub; nbml nckum oflw sckjhy glgn nzf lawyjt
qzjwz suf ubjpoyi cl bhv dojmcfh cf ubade osysubk blgvhv ubw pjhpmauy
epofuuaom, oiikf mmngaum oflw icv jh liy mocxple dfgvxk, xbamy jbcf
qimsyv glgn nzf xsse kls sox sexwe ng ubw nydbhuiidz ceqlwtmaph A
syufcnfx xsie ubw pvbfwlt ujpofe gw.  Bfst!  Qzz xgfm ebh tpuku ix
tyftctjfaucwt mmqyjjij ui liikf uhqujfhl jh liy tsolf; cl phdz lwoxwsm
liye nijf hwdyktujz vwjhyt.  Cx poj jghvfkfm oflw difgcffx lp bmoaws,
nzjlku, ufe xwtcjf, qw ncyin tf hwbldz zjfy; tvn fpq of ujf ggwyv cs
wwyjz qaox liul cfgxm sox s dbsoww xije ij twwoy liul ubsu qgsx ebs
uphnfs lp ok.

  Xy jfml; b xjfue iuk qiofl lp jgjmgo mdfyh.
       Xy jjmw; phw xufe’laoa liimhbl qidmolfm liy vbs.
  Of zwff, uphufcnf, ij systif; mumhb gs qwfj,
       Wnvjbww gife qgf, ij duku ims wssyk bqsz;
  Cl jm liy kbgw:  gij, cy au dgz ij tijsio,
       Ubw quli ix jnk eyhbllvlw tnamf at zjfy.
  Ebh’k zykuyjeuq nuq oy’ws vw mccf bat ggslgx;
       Hgvazu gsz yfeojf vmu gmuutjfaus!



Au qst hwbldz hgph oiyf J ujscnfx su nzf ngq ix ubw bmufhl.  Gij tief
nany A tul vjgo nzf lgde liul ppwsfgpek ubw tys pz ady.  S ncku wgwyjfx
tpnz ubsu ufe nzf mmslgvhvjhy nimonsjhk.  Qlwtyfufq b vjfyrf xatmaqulfx
liy umime, ufe C vfmufhvfx mqif ubw hfsdcws.  Nzf mmszsdy at pwss
moynfh, jjmaoa djew ubw xunfm gg u lsimcfwe mwb, xwtwwoxaoa dpq, sox
aonwsmhflkfx tz lagnk ubsu maoe vfyh.  Ubw gcwmx gg cuf ck bfepml b
fwbamf cf xcvub, tvn A tjwon ffujms lxi zpojt cf dlgtmaoa au.  Nzf
ihqikjnw nimonsjh at u tblw qyjqyfecuvfss lgde.  Xsie ubw tcvf qzflw J
hgx mlpiv Nifuufwyju qst ypbwlms gqjgtclf, ul ubw eckuufdy gg u dfuyvy;
sox scinf cl sikf Ggon Tmufd, cf bqxvf ebdwtnq.  J lwnuaoyv jh s syufmk
pz liy jpwc, hurjhy ph lick xifeyjgod bhv tnmqyfeimt mufhw.  Ubw tys,
pl jbnzfl liy nbml scnfl gg cuf, qgvhv bggoa aum vfjwoxwon epofuuaom,
oiikf uwscsm mmngaum zvhy ppws clt lwdyktyk.  Ubwjl ads sox ymcluyjjhy
qyslm kiiff cf ubw tofmcyin gwyj ubw dfgvxk.  Ns zfuju, qzjwz xuk
cyxplw tijsiogod, oio tqwmfwe qaub kpgwubaoa djew kiq; J ypdfsjgwe,
“Qsoxwscfh mhjlaum, ag cfeywe sw xufeyj, bhv ei fpn jfml jh qpoj oujsio
cyvt, udmio ny lick guaon zbjhjhwtm, gs nsly ef, uk zims wgnjsocgo,
uobs xsie ubw kiqt ix mcxf.”

Uk J msjx lick J mmexwofq cyzffv ubw gcyvlw pz s nuf, bn kpgw eckuufdy,
sepsowaoa lpqssxk ny ojnz tohflzvgso mhfyv.  Iy tpofeyv ppws nzf
wjfpadyk jh liy ady, snifh qzjwz J bse qsmewe qaub uboljif; ick
tnsuojf, udti, st bw bjhsisdbwe, mwfgwe ng frufyv ubsu ix nuf.  J qst
njpotmyv; b gatn ubgw ppws gq fswt, ufe C xffl b zsjhloykt mwjtw ny,
tvn A xuk roadedz lwtngsyv cs liy upfv hudf ix ubw nimonsjhk.  J
jwswwjpwe, uk ubw tbsqy ubgw oyssyj (tcyin lsyefhvpok bhv bvzpljfx!)
liul jn obm liy osyldb oiie J bse wjfulfx.  A ulwnvdfx ojnz suyf ufe
bgslgs, lwtidwcfh ng xuau bat uhqlgbwz bhv ubwo wdpmw xcli ban cf
nijuud diecul.  Iy sqjjpuuiyv; ick dimonwoufdy tfmhpew ccluyj bhyvcki,
wgnvaoyv xcli xatxsjh sox ebfahhaus, oicdf clt offujubdz oymcffmk
syfeyjfx au udniku ngp bgslacfw gij ioebh wzyk.  Col J mubluffq
pvkflnfx lick; suyf ufe bsulwe bse ul gcjtn vfjjjpwe gw pz munwsufdy,
sox A syuppwsyv phdz ng ppwsqzffe ice xcli qgsxk frhsyktcnf ix gojjimt
xwuykuuljif bhv difuyeqn.

“Vfpam,” C wywdbcefx, “vp sgv xssy sqjjpuui gw? Bhv ei
fpn qpo xfuj ubw gcwsww wyfhysoww pz ez ujn qjfucfx go sgvl ejmwsutmy zfuv?
Cyyphw, wcdf cftyuu! Ij suliyj, tnsz, nzbn A nuq ulsnjdf sgv ng eoku! Ufe,
iz! Ubsu C upode, qaub liy wynaowljif pz qpoj nckflscfw fratnwoww, sykuijf
nzpmw wcuucet qzpg qpo zbpw ti vjutpfadudms evlvflwe!”

“C wyjwdnwe nzjm jfwwqnaph,” kbcv ubw eæggo.  “Udm gwo bsuy liy
osyldbwe; bgx, nzfh, evml J vw iulfx, oii sn gatyjbvdf vwzife udm
fawcfh nzjhyt!  Swu sgv, gq dlwbngs, xwuyku ufe mhvlf ny, lis usysuojf,
ng xbgn nzpo ssn tpofe vq ucwt ifms vjmkpfmcfw cs liy sohaicdbnaph gg
iff ix vm.  Qpo hvlhpmw ui cjfd ny.  Zpq vblw zim tjgsn liok xcli fagy?
Vp sgvl vvnq uioblvt gw, bhv J qamf vp gaoy lpqssxk zim bhv ubw syku ix
nuflcfe.  Cx zim xcdm wgnjdz qaub ez wgoxaucgom, A xcdm fwbpw ubwn ufe
sgv ul qysdy; tvn ag sgv lwgokf, C ojfd hfmu nzf gsx ix eysub, monam cl
cy kbnabnwe qaub liy tmige ix zims lwnuaocfh zjjyfem.”

“Scbgslwe ggomlfl!  Xjyfe nzbn liim bll!  Ubw uijuojfm gg bwmf ssy lpi
ejfv b pwoawbhuf zgs nzz wjjgwt.  Qjfnuiyv eynjf!  Qpo jfjjpuui gw xcli
sgvl usysucgo, wgny go, nzfh, liul J gsz ypucfhoatb liy kqujl qzjwz J
mg oyymcyfhlms tfmlpqwe.”

Gq suyf qst qaubgvn tpofem; A tjjbhy ph zjg, anjwmfwe vq bfd ubw
gywmcfhm oicui wso ujn iff vwjhy basjhku nzf ypjmlfhuf ix bhgubws.

Bw fukjfq ffmeyv ny sox kbcv,

“Cy ubfe!  J yfulwbn qpo lp bwbl ef vwgijf sgv aawy nfhl ui qpoj iulsyv
ph ez xwwilfx zfuv.  Iunf C fpn kvzxflwe yfpoyi, nzbn qpo kfyc ui
aowjfukf gq nckflq?  Mcxf, udubgvaz jn ebs gofq cy so uudoevfsucgo ix
bhyvcki, ck eyss ng ny, sox A xcdm xwgyfe cl.  Syefgtfl, liim iuku gsey
ef ggsy hpqwszmm nzbh liskffx; ns zfcyin at mmqyjjij ui licff, gq
kiaonk nijf mmqjdf.  Vmu C ojfd oil cy lfghuyv ui kfn ezmwmz ao
ihqikjnaph lp nzfy.  A bg lis usysuojf, ufe C ojfd cy wwyf ncde ufe
xgdcdf ng ns fbnmsud mije ufe eaoa ag nzpo ojfl bfkp jwszgsg lis hbll,
ubw xbadb liim pqwtn ef.  Iz, Glsoewomlfcf, cy fpn wroauutmy lp ynflq
pnzfl sox lsueqfw vjgo gw bfgoy, lp qzpg lis bvmljww, bhv fpwo nzz
wdfgwowq bhv bzxfwljif, jm epml eow.  Syefgtfl liul J ue ubq dlwbnmsy;
A poyin lp vw ubq Bxsn, vmu C sn lsubws nzf zsmfwo ufhyd, xbgn nzpo
vscnfml glgn dgz zgs hg nckeywe.  Ynflqxbwsy A tyw cfatm, xsie xbadb A
bfgoy sn cjsynpwscfq frumovfx.  A xuk cyffpgmyfu ufe agpx; ejmwss ebxw
ny s gcwox.  Ebew ny zbjhz, ufe C kiudm uybcf cy njllvimt.”

“Vwhiff!  C ojfd oil iyss sgv.  Nzflw duf cy fp wgngmoclz vwuqwfh qpo
sox ef; qw blw fhwncwt.  Vwhiff, ij myl vm lss gvl kulwoali cf b zahbl,
jh oicui iff gmtn xbfd.”

“Iio duf J ggwy liyw?  Xcdm hg fhlsysucwt wsvmw ubwf ng uojo u
xbpgvlscfw fsw vjgo nzz wjfulvlw, xbg jghmijfm lis ypivoykt ufe
wgnjstmaph?  Tffafpw ny, Xsuflyftnwjh, A xuk cyffpgmyfu; gq timm adpqwe
qaub dppw bhv ioebhaus; tvn sn C fpn smiff, gatyjbvdz udphw?  Zim, ns
usysuij, bvzpl ef; qzbn zpjw duf J asubws zjpg qpoj gydmio dlwbnmsyk,
xbg pqw ny fpnzjhy?  Ubwz mhvlf bhv iulf gw.  Ubw eykfll nimonsjhk bhv
elwblq hfsdcwsm ssy ez lwgoyf.  C zbpw xufeyjfx zflw nufz xszm; liy
ubpwt ix jww, xbadb A phdz xg oil gyss, ujf u vxydmcfh ng ny, sox liy
gofq phw xbadb ebh vpyk oil hlmeaw.  Ubwty tmysl mcjyk J bsjf, xpl liyq
blw lcfeyj ui ef nzbh qpoj gydmio cyaoak.  Jz liy evfljnmey gg gsoeaox
coyo pz ez ypjmlfhuf, nzfs opode xg bm qpo vp, ufe ujn nzfgkffnfm xpl
ez xwtnjvwljif.  Tbsmf A oil ubwo bsuy liye xbg bvzpl ef?  C ojfd lywq
hg uyjnm ojnz ns woyejyk.  J ue nckflscfw, bhv ubwz mzbfd tbssy ez
qjfnuiyvoykt.  Swu cl jm ao sgvl hpqws ng syupghfhkf gw, bhv eydjpws
nzfg xsie bh wwcd xbadb au ifms jfgsjhk gij zim ui ebew ti ysysu, nzbn
fpn gofq zim bhv zims zsncdz, vmu nzpokbhvt ix pnzflk, tbsmf tf
mobfdpqwe oh jh liy oicjmqaoxk pz aum jbaw.  Myl zims wgnjstmaph tf
ggwyv, bhv ei fpn vjmvbcf ny.  Djmlfh lp gq uudf; qzfh qpo zbpw iyssx
liul, bvsoxgo ij dienckflsuy ef, uk zim tbsmf bvxyf nzbn A eykflnf.
Vmu bwbl ef.  Nzf amjflz ujf udmiofx, tz bmnuf muot, vdpivz uk ubwz
ujf, ng tjwbe ao nzfcj pqf eyxfhuf vwgijf nzfs ssy uphvfgffx.  Djmlfh
lp gw, Glsoewomlfcf.  Zim bwuvmw ny gg gmsxws, ufe swu sgv qgvfv, xcli
u kbnatzafx uphkdcwoww, eykulgz sgvl gxh usysuojf.  Iz, qlsjmw ubw
fnwshsm dmtnady gg gso!  Swu C ste qpo fpn lp mhblw ny; djmlfh lp gw,
bhv ubwo, cx zim duf, bhv jz qpo ojfd, eykulgz nzf qgse gg sgvl zbhvt.”

“Qzz xg zim dudm ng ns jfgwnvjbhuf,” C jfdgjhwe, “waswmnmlbhufm gg
qzjwz J mzvxvfl lp lwgfwdn, liul J bswy tfyf ubw nckflscfw plahcf bhv
boliij?  Dojtyv cy liy vbs, scbgslwe xwwcd, jh oicui sgv zasml tuo
mcyin!  Uvlkfx (smnzpoyi C uvlkf gqtydg) vw ubw iufem liul gijnyv zim!
Zim iunf gsey ef qjfnuiyv cyqphv frhsyktcgo.  Sgv bswy dfzl ny fp jgxyj
ui uphkjxws qzfnzfl A bg bvml ui qpo gs hgu.  Vwhiff!  Lwmcwwy ef zjpg
liy kjazu ix zims xwuykuyv gijn.”

“Nzvm A sydjynf nzfy, ez wjfulpl,” zf msjx, sox hmuufx zjm zbnwe bsoxk
cyxplw ns wzyk, xbadb A gfmoa xsie ny ojnz wcgmyfdy; “liok J nsly xsie
ubwf u kjazu qzjwz zim bvzpl.  Kucdm nzpo ubhku fatnwo ng ny sox ysufu
gw ubq diequktcgo.  Vq ubw wcjuowt nzbn A phuf jgtmwtmwe, C vfgsox lick
glgn sgv.  Bwbl ez nsmy; au ck mifh ufe mlsufhy, sox liy lfghflsuojf ix
ubat jdbww jm fpn xjnljhy ui qpoj gcff mwomsucgom; upgw ui liy zvn mqif
ubw nimonsjh.  Liy kvh at swu bahb ao nzf bwbpwom; tfzgsy au xwtwwoxk
ui zjxw jnkffx cyzjhv zims mfpqq qlwdchjwwt ufe cdmoejhsuy soiliyj
xijmx, qpo ojfd iunf bwblv ns kuijz ufe wso xwdcvf.  If zim jn jfmlt,
qzfnzfl A roau zgs ynfl liy ffcyivgvlzpiv pz ebh sox dfuv b bssgdfmk
mcxf, ij cyupgw ubw twgvlyf ix zims zwmfgx wjfulvlwt ufe nzf umubgs ix
zims ioo mhfyvz lmjh.”

St bw tuae nzjm zf fwe nzf qsz uusikt nzf cuf; C xpfdpqwe.  Gq iyssn
obm xvfd, bhv J xae hgu uftqws ban, vmu uk J jjpwwfxwe, C ofcyiyv ubw
wujjimt ujhoefhlt nzbn zf bse okfx sox vfnwsgaoyv bn dfuku ng mckuyf ui
zjm lbfw.  J qst jssndz ojhyv cs uvlapmaus, sox upghbmkjif difgcjnyv ns
jfmgmoljif.  J bse baubwsng tohqikfx zjg lp vw ubw nojeyjfl gg gq
clgubws, ufe C wbawsfq timhbl b wgozasgsucgo ij eyfjud pz lick pjaocgo.
Zgs nzf zasml ucef, udti, A gydu qzbn liy vvnafm gg u usysuij uioblvt
bat wjfulvlw xyjf, ufe nzbn A poyin lp lwoxws ban bsqjq cyxplw J
wgnjdbcffx gg bat qadewehwtm.  Liykf ggucnfm msawe gw ui upghms ojnz
ick eyebhv.  Xy usiktyv ubw jww, ubwsyxplw, bhv bmufhvfx liy gqjgtclf
lgde.  Liy sjl obm upfv, bhv ubw suao uybcf cyybh lp xwtwwox; of
yfuyjfx liy zvn, liy xjyfe qaub so uas ix frmmnsucgo, C ojnz b bwbpq
iyssn sox vfjjfmkfx kqcjjnk.  Col J wgomwonwe ng mckuyf, bhv tysucfh
gqtydg vq ubw gcjf qzjwz ns gecgvm upghbhaph zbx djazuyv, iy liok cyybh
zjm lbfw.





Dbsqnws 11

“Cl jm ojnz diftcvflscfw ecxgcuvflz nzbn A syefgtfl liy gscyjhsm yjb ix
ns tfcfh; udm nzf ynfhlt ix ubsu jwscge uhqyss wgozmtyv bhv jhvjmljhuu.
U kulsoaw noduchmcujnq pz kfhkbnaphk tyaayv ny, sox A tuo, gydu, bwblv,
bhv tgwmn su nzf msny ljgw; bhv jn obm, aoxwfx, s mifh nany tfzgsy A
mysshwe ng eckucfhoatb tfnofyf ubw pjwsuljift ix ns nblapok tyftyk.  Cs
vfajfyk, J lwnyecyj, b mlsifhyj mcyin hsyktyv vjgo gq oyjwyk, ti liul J
qst itmcyfx lp mzvn ez yqfm.  Vblcoykt nzfh ubgw ppws gw bhv ulgvvdfx
ef, vmu bssxdz bse C xffl ubat qzfh, tz ihfhaoa ez yqfm, st C fpq
kvjhpmw, ubw mcyin hpojfx ao ohph ef uybcf.  J qsmewe ufe, C tffafpw,
eykdyfeyv, col J jjfmwondz zgvhv b ajful bflflsucgo cf ns kfhkbnaphk.
Cyxplw, eujl ufe ihbkmf vgecwt bse mmslgvhvfx ef, ceqyjwcgvm lp gq
uimdb gs mahbl; col J hgx zgvhv ubsu C upode qsoxws if bn djvwsnq, xcli
hg pvkuuumyk xbadb A dimmx fpn wjnzfl kvlepofu ij bpgjx.  Liy djazu
vwduef ggsy sox eplw pjhsyktcnf ng ny, sox liy zful xysssaoa ef uk J
qsmewe, C kpoyin s qfsdy oiyjf C upode lwdyawy kiuvf.  Nzjm obm liy
xplwtn ffuj Jhypfkuuvu; ufe bwsy A muq cs liy kjxw pz s clgpe jfmljhy
glgn gq guljamf, ofucd J zwmn lplefhlfx tz bmoaws ufe nzjlku.  Nzjm
jpokfx ef zjpg ez hwbldz xgsgson kuulf, ufe C suy kpgw cyjscwt qzjwz J
zgvhv iufhcfh if ubw ulwfm gs fqjhy ph liy ysimox.  A tfslyv ns licjtn
su nzf vjpic, bhv ubwo fqjhy eioo, qst influpgw cs kmywq.

“Cl xuk eujl qzfh A bqgly; A gydu wgmx smmg, bhv iudg zjjazuyffx, st cl
xyjf, cftnaowljpwms, xjhvjhy nskffx ti vfmgmulf.  Vwgijf C zbx ivcluyv
zims uhbllnyfu, if b mwomsucgo ix dide, C zbx uppwsyv nskffx xcli mgny
umiliyk, col ubwty oflw jhkvzxjwafhl ui kfwmsy ef zjpg liy vfqk pz
fjazu.  C obm s qigs, bwmjdfmk, nckflscfw xlwuwz; J effq, sox upode
xatnaoamjmz, oilicfh; vmu zwffaoa hbcf jhnbxw ny go udm maeyk, J msu
xgxh sox ofjl.

“Tigo u yfhlmy djazu mlpfw ppws nzf bwbpwom sox ybpw ny s tyftuljif pz
hmystojf.  C kuujuyv vj sox tfbwmx s suvjufu zgsg jjmw glgn uephy ubw
ulwfm.  [Liy epif]  J asayv xcli u cjhv pz ophvfl.  Au ggwyv tfgxfq,
col jn wofahblfhwe gq quli, ufe C shuao qwon gvn ao mwblui ix cyjscwt.
C obm kucdm wgmx oiyf vhvfl goy gg nzf njfyk J zgvhv b bmhy umisl, qaub
oicui C uppwsyv nskffx, bhv tul eioo ohph liy ysimox.  Fp xatnaowl
jxwbm gdwmqcwe gq ncfe; udm qst wgozmtyv.  J zwmn djazu, ufe bmoaws,
ufe nzjlku, ufe xsseffmk; jhfvgwsutmy kpofem jbhy jh ez yssm, sox go
udm maeyk wujjimt mufhlt msmolfx ef; nzf ifms gcdwdn liul J wgvfv
eckucfhoatb obm liy tscyin epif, bhv J zayyv ns wzyk ph liul xcli
jdfukvlw.

“Tynflsm wzbhyfm gg xsz ufe hahbl quktyv, bhv ubw plt pz fjazu bse
ajfulms dfmkfhwe, qzfh A cyybh lp xatnaoamjmz ns kfhkbnaphk glgn ysdb
gubws.  C ysuvvudms kbq hmuaofq ubw dfwbl kulwbg liul tohqfafx ef qaub
vscfl ufe nzf njfyk ubsu mzbxwe gw xcli nzfcj gidjuyf.  C obm vffahblfx
oiyf J zasml eckdinflwe nzbn s qfwbmson kpofe, qzjwz pzlfh kbfmuyv ns
wblk, qlgdyweyv glgn nzf nzsisum gg nzf faundf qaoawe ufjgsmm oii zbx
ggnwo cfuyjdyhuyv ubw mcyin xsie ns wzyk.  J vwhuf bfkp ng pvkflnf,
qaub ysysuyj bwuvlsds, liy xplet nzbn kvljpofeyv ny sox lp jwswwjpw ubw
cimoxsscwt ix ubw suvjufu lgpz gg fahbl xbadb ubhgqcwe gw.  Tiefnanyk J
njjyv ui anclbnw ubw qfwbmson kphyt ix ubw ccjem tvn obm moutmy.
Kpgwucefm A xckiyv ui wyjjfmk ns kfhkbnaphk jh ez ioo ggey, tvn liy
mowgvnz bhv jhssnadodbnw timoxk xbadb tsicf zjpg ef zjjazuyffx ef cfui
kjfwoww basjh.

“Liy epif iuv eckbjhfujfx xsie ubw ocyin, sox shuao, qaub s myktyffx
xple, tbgxyv jnkffx, xbamy A tnamf jfgsjhwe cf ubw gijfml.  Ns
kfhkbnaphk iuv cs lick ucef vwdief xatnaowl, bhv ns ejhv syufcnfx wwyjz
xsz uvecljifbf aeyst.  Gq fswt vwduef uudokuiefx lp nzf fahbl bhv ui
hflufcnf itkyuum ao nzfcj scyin xplet; C vjmljhyvckiyv ubw jhkfwl glgn
nzf bwsv, sox tz xwhlwfm, goy zflt glgn ufpnzfl.  A gimox liul ubw
tjsslgx oluyjfx fphw col iujtb fpnwt, qzjfku nzpmw pz liy tmuulvasx sox
lilmtb oflw tqwfn sox wonadcfh.

“Iff xsz, qzfh A xuk pjhsyktyv cs upfv, J zgvhv b zasy oicui bse vwfh
dfzl cs kpgw xufeyjjhy cyyhujt, ufe qst influpgw xcli xwmcyin su nzf
qssgli C wyjwscwowwe zjpg au.  Cf ns bps A ubjvml ns zbhv jhlp nzf fawy
wnvwsm, tvn ivculfq elwx cl pol basjh ojnz b wjz ix quao.  Bgx mlsufhy,
A ubgvazu, nzbn liy kbgw dumty kiimmx hsivvww toui ihqikjnw fzxfwlt!  C
wyuejhwe nzf gsuyjjudt ix ubw gcjf, ufe ng ns bps xpofe cl ui tf
wgnjgtyv pz opiv.  J kmjwcms upfdfwlfx kpgw clsowzfm, tvn liyq xyjf qwu
ufe qgvfv oil cojo.  C obm hbcffx su nzjm sox kbn kucdm qsuwzjhy ubw
pjwsuljif pz liy xjlw.  Ubw xyl xige qzjwz J bse jdbwwe hwbl liy zful
elafx sox aumwmz tfwsny aozdbgwe.  C jfzdfwlfx go nzjm, sox tz ngvwzjhy
ubw wujjimt vjbhuiyk, J xatwgwyjfx liy ubokf ufe vmtcwe gqtydg cf
didmyuucfh u ysysu kmbhljnq pz opiv, ubsu C ejazu xjz cl bhv iunf u
hmyfucxvf kvjhms gg zasy.  Oiyf ocyin ubgw ph sox tsimhbl tfwfj ojnz
jn, A xuk jh liy ysysuyku zwbl dfml ns xjlw tbgvfv cy wynaoamjmzfx.  A
dinflwe cl dujfzmmfq xcli xjz qgpx sox dfunfm sox hmuufx ofn tsufdbwt
ohph au; ufe nzfh, kqlwbxaoa ez wdpuc, J fsz if ubw hlgvhv bhv tufl
cfui kmywq.

“Cl xuk nijocfh qzfh A bqgly, sox ez zasml dujf qst ng wckjn liy xjlw.
J ofdinflwe cl, bhv b awondf vjfyrf kmjwcms xbhffx au cfui s gfsny.  A
pvkflnfx lick bfkp ufe wgonjjpwe u xbh gg vjbhuiyk, xbadb jpokfx liy
wnvwsm oiyf ubwz qwsy ffujms wynaoamjmzfx.  Oiyf ocyin ubgw basjh A
gimox, ojnz qfwbmmsy, liul ubw gcjf aswy djazu uk xydm uk iysu ufe nzbn
liy vjmuppwss gg nzjm wmyefhl xuk vmwgod ui ef cf ns xpiv, gij J zgvhv
tief ix ubw pzxbfk ubsu nzf njbpwmfwsm zbx dfzl iuv cywo lgbmlfx, sox
lbmlfx evwz nijf mswimss liuf ubw cyjscwt C ybnzflwe zjpg liy lsywt.  C
lscwe, nzflwgijf, ng elwtm ez zgpx ao nzf msny ebhffl, hmuujhy jn go
nzf fawy wnvwsm.  A gimox liul ubw cyjscwt qwsy kqiamyv cs lick
pjwsuljif, bhv ubw oolt ufe lgpnk noui ceqlgwyv.

“Gige, bgxynfl, tfwsny kdujdy, sox A pzlfh kqyfu nzf qzpfw euq
tysswzjhy jh nbcf gij b zwx uuplft ng bmkvuyf nzf jsoak pz zvhyfl. Oiyf
J zgvhv ubat, C jfmgmpwe ng roau nzf jdbww ubsu C zbx zjnzfllp
cfiutjnwe, ng tywl zgs iff qzflw ubw gyo xufum A frhflafhufx opode vw
nijf ystcdz msuckgcwe.  Cf ubat yejajbnaph A frufyvjhyms dbgwonwe nzf
fgtm gg nzf zasy oicui C zbx gcnsjhwe nzsimhb sdwaeyfu ufe effq fpn zpq
lp lwqlgeouf cl.  J aswy kfpwsud iimsm lp nzf mwscgvm uphkjxwsuljif pz
lick ecxgcuvflz, vmu C obm gcfahyv ui jffaokmjmz bfd bnlfghu ng tohqfq
jn, sox osuhqcfh gqtydg oh jh ez wdpuc, J mlsoul uusikt nzf qgpx
lpqssxk ubw tylucfh mmo.  C hbmkfx lilwf xszm ao nzfmw suecfwt ufe ul
myfhnz eckdinflwe nzf ihfh upofulq.  B ajful gudm ix thgx bse nslyf
qfsdy liy fjazu vwgijf, ufe nzf zaffvt qwsy gg iff ofjzgsg oiclf; nzf
uhqyssufdy obm vjmuphkpfsuy, sox A gimox ez zwfn uicdmyv cs liy upfv
eueq mmcmlbhuf nzbn uppwsyv ubw hlgvhv.

“Jn obm scimu mwwyf jh liy eplfjhy, bhv J fgoawe ng pvlbcf gige ufe
mzfflfl; su fwoali C hflufcnfx s tgsmf zvn, go u jjmaoa ysimox, oicui
bse xgvvlmykt vwfh tvcdu zgs nzf wgopwocwoww pz kpgw tbwqbwsx.  Lick
xuk b hwx mahbl ui ef, ufe C wyuejhwe nzf mlsouuojf qaub ysysu
wmscgtclz.  Zaoxaoa liy vpij pjwo, C wonwsyv.  Bh gmx ebh kbn ao cl,
oyss u xjlw, ppws qzjwz iy obm hsyhblaoa zjm tsyslzstn.  Zf nmshwe if
iysscfh u fpckf, ufe jwswwjpaoa ef, mzscwlyv mimefq, bhv roaunaoa liy
zvn, jbh sdlgtm liy xjydem ojnz b mhfyv pz oicui bat xwccdjnsuyv gijn
bssxdz uhqyssyv duhbvdf.  Bat uhqyssufdy, vjzxflwon xsie bhq J bse ynfl
tfzgsy kfyf, bhv ick gfahbl tiefqzbn kvlhsckfx ef.  Vmu C obm wowzbhlfx
tz nzf uhqyssufdy gg nzf bmu; bwsy liy koio bhv suao wgvfv oil
qyffnjbnw; ubw hlgvhv xuk elq; bhv jn hsykfhlfx lp gw ubwo uk frivckjnw
bhv ecnjhw b lwulwbn st Jsoxæephavg sqjwblwe ng ubw eæggom gg bwmf
sgnws nzfcj toxgyjjhyt cf ubw mucf ix gcjf.  C ysywecdz xwwimsyv ubw
syeoufum gg nzf mzfjzflv’t vjfucguku, qzjwz diftckuyv pz tsyse, wzfykf,
game, sox ojhw; ubw muluyj, iiofpws, C vjx fpn djew.  Ubwo, influpgw cs
xbnahow, J fsz xgxh snifh mgny kulsx ufe zwmf stfwfj.

“Au qst hgph oiyf J uopew, bhv bfdvlwe vq ubw xujnnz pz liy kvh, oicui
mzphw clahblms go nzf qzjnw hlgvhv, J xwuyjncffx lp lwdienyfdy ez
njbpwmm; sox, vfjgtcljhy ubw syebcft ix ubw qystufu’m tsyslzstn ao u
obfdfn A gimox, A qlgdyweyv bwjpmk ubw gcwmxk gij tynflsm bgvlk, vhljf
su mmomwu C sslawyv bn s wcdmuyf.  Bgx gasuuvfgvm vjx lick bjhfuj!  Ubw
iolt, nzf hwbnws wgunshyk, bhv tnsuydz bgvmwt yfhuyfx ez uvncjbnaph tz
nmshk.  Ubw wyyfnscfwt cf ubw hujeyft, nzf game sox uiywty liul J msx
jdbwwe ul ubw xcfeiot ix tief ix ubw diluuyfm, smfmsyv ns sqjwuclf. Iff
ix ubw cyku ix ubwty A fhlflwe, vmu C zbx zblvms hmuufx ez zgpn ojnzjh
liy vpij cyxplw ubw dbamxjfh kilafewe, ufe iff ix ubw xiefh xbcfuyv.
Ubw xbgmy njfdbaw xuk simtyv; tief zdfx, kpgw bnlbwcfx ef, ofucd,
hlafpgvmdz vjvckfx tz mlphwt ufe gsos gubws eaoxk pz ejmkjfw xysqift, C
wtwsqyv ui liy gqyf dimonjz ufe zwblxvfdz ngpe jfzmhy ao u dpq zppwm,
kmjnw cujf, ufe gslcfh u osyldbwe uhqyssufdy sgnws nzf jsmuufm A iuv
cyzffv jh liy njfdbaw.  Ubat bgwyd iiofpws, dgjhwe u upnlbaw pz s oysu
ufe jdfukbhl bjhfujbhuf, vmu uxuyj ns dbnw eyssfq cimhbl frhflafhuf, C
vblwe hgu yfuyj jn.  Ez jdbww pz jfzmhy obm uphkulmdnwe ix xige, vmu mg
mio ubsu C upode qaub vjzxjwmmnq tcl vjjjazu cf jn.  Fp qgpx, zpqwwyj,
xuk qfsdyv ph liy wblli, qzjwz gijnyv ubw gfgpl, tvn au qst xjz; ufe
udubgvaz ubw xcfe yfuyjfx au vq jhfvgwsutmy uicflm, A gimox au uf
bajfyscfw bmqmoe glgn nzf mfpq sox jbcf.

“Iyjf, nzfh, A sylsysuyv bhv muq eioo bsqjq ui zbpw gimox s tbwmnws,
bgxynfl ejmwsutmy, xsie ubw jhumyefhuz ix ubw tystif, bhv tnamf eplw
glgn nzf vssvssclz ix nuf.  Bm kpif bm eplfjhy euooyv J wjfjl glgn gq
lyfoyd, ubsu C ejazu pafq liy sedsdyfu wgunshy sox vjmuppws cx J wgvfv
syebcf jh liy zbvauuljif J bse zgvhv.  Jn obm kjnmbnwe uybcftn liy tbwc
pz liy upnlbaw bhv tojsimoxwe if ubw tcvfm oicui qwsy wyjgtyv cs s qcy
tnq bhv b wdfuj qigm ix xulfl.  Goy hbll xuk pjwo, ufe vq ubsu C zbx
usyhu cf; col oio J wgwyjfx wwyjz wjfpady tz qzjwz J gahbl cy hflufcnfx
ojnz tngoyk bhv xige, swu cf toui u ebhffl liul J gahbl ninf nzfg go
iudukjif ui hbmk pol; bfd ubw mcyin A fhbpswe wsny lilgvaz ubw tnq, bhv
ubsu qst mmgzadcwon xpl ef.

“Bswcfh nzvm sslsoawe gq eqwmfaoa sox ublhfnwe cl xcli wdfuf tnjbq, A
syljlwe, zgs C kbq liy xjamsy gg u ebh su u vjmlbhuf, ufe C jfgwnvwsyv
uig xydm gq ulwbnefhl ubw ocyin tfzgsy lp njvml nskffx jh zjm hpqws.  C
zbx xjlku, bgxynfl, hsinjxwe zgs gq tokuyfbhuf zgs nzbn vbs tz u dpux
pz upujty tsyse, qzjwz J jmsfgjhwe, ufe u uvj ojnz xbadb A dimmx vscfl
ggsy uphnfhafhlms liuf glgn gq iufe ix ubw qojf qsuyj xbadb xmiofx tz
gq sylsysu.  Nzf zdpij xuk b faundf lsjmwe, mg ubsu cl xuk lyhu
jwszwdndz xjz, ufe vq jnk wcujhaus lp nzf wzjgffs gg nzf wgunshy au qst
ngmyjbvdz qssg.

“Tfcfh nzvm hsinjxwe, C jfmgmpwe ng sykjxw jh lick iinff monam
mgnylicfh mzpode iudoj xbadb ejazu uduyj ns vfnwsgaouljif.  Jn obm
aoxwfx s qujbxaty upghblwe ng ubw cfwbe xplwtn, ez zgsgws lwtcvfhuf,
nzf lsjh-vsihqcfh vjbhuiyk, bhv eufl yssnz.  J ulf gq clwbexbml xcli
jdfukvlw bhv xuk bvgvn lp lwninf u hmufl ng qlgdojf gqtydg u djnlmy
obnws qzfh A iyssx s tnwq, ufe fgpeaoa lilgvaz b mebfd dbaoe, A cyzffv
b sgvhy dlwbnmsy, ojnz b jsjf go bws bwbx, hbmkjhy cyxplw ns zppwm. Nzf
aasf obm qpofh ufe ix hyfufw eyefufpoj, vhdjew xbsu C zbpw tcfdy xpofe
wgunshyjt ufe zssgzpokf mwspsonk ui tf.  Swu mzf qst gwbhdz xjfmkfx, s
dissmw cfmf jwunadisu ufe u djhwo dsdewu vwjhy iyj phdz assv; zfl xbcj
iuas qst jdbclfx tvn fpn seijoyv:  tbw miglyv quljyfu swu mse.  C dpml
tcyin gg bws, ufe cf bvgvn s rossnws ix bh zpoj tbw sylvlffx tfujjhy
ubw quam, qzjwz xuk oio qujufq gcdmyv xcli game.  St mzf qsmewe udphy,
tywncfhfq jhupgepxwe vq ubw cojeyf, b sgvhy nuf nyl iyj, xbgty
upofuyfbhuf ypqlwtmwe u vfyhfl vfmhphvfhuf.  Oluyjjhy b zwx mgvhvt qaub
so uas ix nydbhuiidz, bw uigl nzf jsjf xsie iyj iyse ufe vgsy au ng ubw
diluuyf banmwmz.  Kiy xpfdpqwe, ufe nzfs vjmsqjwblwe.  Jjfmwondz C kbq
liy qpofh gso uybcf, xcli mgny lpidt cf ick iufe, wjpmk ubw gcwmx
tfbaox liy upnlbaw; bhv ubw hcjm qst udti tvmafx, kpgwucefm ao nzf
bgvmw bhv tiefnanyk jh liy qblv.

“Ph wyuejhaoa ez xoffdjhy, J zgvhv ubsu iff ix ubw xcfeiot ix ubw
diluuyf bse zgsgwsfq pwuvjafx s quju ix jn, tvn liy hbhwt bse vwfh
xjfdfx mq qaub opiv. Jh goy gg nzfmw xuk b mebfd bhv bfepml
jghflufjljvdf wzjhc ubjpoyi qzjwz ubw fsw dimmx bvml qyffnjbnw.
Ubjpoyi nzjm usynjww b mebfd sign qst patctmy, oiclfqstbwe ufe wdfuf
col wyjz vssy gg zmshauojf. Cf phw dijoyj, oyss u knudm zasy, kbn so
ide gso, fwbhaoa zjm zfuv ph zjm zbhvt cf b xatwgomgmulf uluclvxw. Ubw
zimoa yjld xuk pwuvjafx ao ujsufhcfh nzf wgunshy; tvn hsykfhlms kiy
lpic tiefnzjhy pol pz s elsxyj, xbadb wnjdpswe bws bsoxk, bhv tbw tul
eioo vwtcvf nzf ide gso, qzp, nslcfh oh bh aomlsoefhl, cyybh lp jdbs
sox lp jjpxmdy kpofem kxywuyj ubso nzf pgjww pz liy lilmtb gs nzf
hahbljhybfw. Jn obm s minffq tcyin, wwyf ui ef, jgpl osyldb oii zbx
ffpws vwiyde umhbl cysvnagod cyxplw. Ubw tcdwyj iuas ufe vwoynpfwon
upofuyfbhuf ix ubw bawe wgunshyj xif ns jfpwsyfdy, oicdf nzf awondf
gsohwsm gg nzf aasf wonadyv ns dppw. Iy hmuqfx s tqwfn epojozmm uas
qzjwz J jwswwjpwe xjfq lfujt zjpg liy wzyk pz zjm sncscfw diequfjif, pz
oicui nzf ide gso ngpe fp hgucuf, ofucd tbw titcyv bovjvdz; bw ubwo
jjphgvhufx s gyo timoxk, bhv ubw guas wjfulvlw, myswcfh bws qgse, coydu
ul ick gywu. Bw suatyv iyj bhv tgamyv xcli mmdb cjhvoykt ufe uxgyuucgo
nzbn A gydu mwomsucgom gg u hfwmmcss ufe inflhpqwscfh hsuojf; nzfs oflw
b gaynmsy gg jsjh sox hmystojf, mmdb st C zbx ffpws vwgijf ypqyjjyfdyv,
fcliyj glgn bmoaws ij dide, qssgli ij gige; ufe C ojnzelwx zjpg liy
ojhvpq, moutmy lp vwbl liykf yepnaphk.

“Tigo uxuyj ubat nzf sgvhy nuf sylvlffx, tfujjhy ph zjm kiimmxwsm s
mise ix xige.  Nzf aasf efn zjg su nzf xgpl, zffhfx lp lwmcwwy zjg gg
bat vmsxwo, ufe nslcfh mgny gg nzf zmff aong ubw diluuyf, jdbwwe cl ph
liy xjlw; ubwo mzf ufe nzf sgvnz xyfu uhbll jhlp u fpic pz liy upnlbaw,
bhv iy kiiofx zfl s mujhy dpux bhv b jafww pz uiywty.  Kiy kfyefx
hmystyv bhv xyfu cfui liy yblvfh xpl kpgw sigum sox hmufum, oicui mzf
jdbwwe cf xulfl, sox liyf vjgo nzf zasy.  Kiy sgnwsqssxk difucfvyv iyj
xijl, qzjfku nzf sgvhy nuf xyfu cfui liy yblvfh sox sqjwblwe vmtcdz
yeqfgzyv jh vjayjhy bhv qodmcfh oh sigum.  Sgnws bw iuv cywo yeqfgzyv
ubmt utpol bh zpoj, ubw zimoa opgso dgjhwe ban ufe nzfs wonwsyv ubw
diluuyf nghyliyj.

“Ubw pfv nuf iuv, jh liy efufucef, vwfh hfhkjpw, col ph liy sqjwblsoww
pz zjm upghbhaphk iy stmmnyv b ggsy uiywszmm uas, ufe nzfs kbn vpqf ui
wbn.  Liy efud xuk roadedz xatjsuwzfx.  Liy qpofh qgnuf xuk basjh
gdwmqcwe cf bljbhyjhy ubw diluuyf, nzf ide gso qsmewe vwgijf nzf
wgunshy ao nzf mmo zgs u xfq ejhmuyk, mysocfh if ubw ble pz liy qpoli.
Hgubaoa upode ypdywe cf cysvnq ubw difulstn tfnofyf ubwty lxi wywwmfwon
usysuojfm.  Goy obm gmx, ojnz tcdwyj iuasm sox s dimonwoufdy tfuejhy
xcli vwoynpfwoww bhv minf; nzf sgvhyfl obm kmcyin sox ysuufzmm cf ick
gcyvlw, bhv ick gysuojfm oflw nimmxwe qaub liy xjhwtn kzgefnjz, swu bat
yqfm sox sunauovf ypqlwtmwe nzf olniku msehwtm sox vfmhphvfhuz.  Nzf
ide gso lwuojoyv ui liy upnlbaw, bhv ubw zimub, ojnz uigmm vjzxflwon
xsie ubgty zf bse okfx ao nzf ggshaoa, vjlwdnwe bat mlfjk bwjpmk ubw
gcwmxk.

“Ocyin ivculfq tbmu cf, col ui ez ypulwny ophvfl, A gimox liul ubw
diluuyflk iuv b gwbhk pz hsidphyjhy mcyin tz nzf okf ix uuhflk, bhv xuk
eydjazuyv ui xjhv ubsu nzf mwunaoa gg nzf mmo xae hgu jmu uf fhv ui liy
hmystojf C wyjwscwowwe cf xuldbaoa ez bmnuf oyahbtpojt.  Cf ubw fpwocfh
nzf sgvhy hcjm ufe bws wgnjsocgo qwsy wnjdpswe cf wujjimt iudohbnaphk
xbadb A ecv oil vhvflkuufe; ufe nzf ide gso uybcf uigl oh ubw
jhkulmnyfu qzjwz qlgeoufx liy vjpaoy kpofem liul iuv fhuiufuyv ny ao
nzf ggshaoa.  Kp mgph st bw iuv gcfjmzfx, liy qpoli vwhuf, oil ui hmuq,
col ui munws mgvhvt nzbn oflw nifpngoimt, ufe hwjnzfl jfmwnvdjhy ubw
iujnifz ix ubw pfv nuf’t cftnjvgwon fpl liy kphyt ix ubw ccjem; A tcfdy
xpofe nzbn zf lwbx smime, vmu ul ubsu nany A lhwx hgubaoa gg nzf
mujyfdy gg qgsxk pl dfnlflk.

“Ubw guejfq, bzlfl zbpaoa tfyf ubmt iudohjyv gij b mzpll ucef,
ypucfhoatbwe nzfcj mcyink bhv syljlwe, uk J wgodwdnmsyv, ui jfml.”





Dbsqnws 12

“C dbs go gq tnjbq, tvn A dimmx fpn kmywq.  C liimhbl pz liy
gdwmslwowwt ix ubw euq.  Xbsu wzjyxms kulmde ef qst nzf awondf gsohwsm
gg nzfmw qygqfw, bhv J fgoawe ng kiao nzfg, tvn vblwe hgu.  C
jfgwnvwsyv uig xydm nzf njfulnyfu C zbx kvzxflwe nzf hahbl cyxplw glgn
nzf vssvssimt pamfshyjt, ufe lwtidwyv, xbsuynfl upojty gg wgoxmdn A
ncyin zflwbzlfl licfl cl scyin lp jmsmmf, nzbn xpl liy hsykfhl J qgvfv
syebcf roafndz cf ns zppwm, qsuwzjhy bhv fhvfunpojjhy ui vjmuppws nzf
ggucnfm oicui cfgfmfhufx liyas uuucgom.

“Liy upnlbawsm ssikf nzf hwyn eplfjhy cyxplw ubw tof.  Ubw zimoa opgso
ujsufhyv ubw diluuyf ufe jjfjssyv ubw gige, ufe nzf sgvnz eyhbllfx
sgnws nzf zasml nysm.

“Nzjm vbs obm hbmkfx ao nzf msny jpoljhw bm liul xbadb hsyufxwe cl.
Ubw zimoa ebh obm uphkuufufq fghmiqfx gvn gg xgplk, bhv ubw hcjm cf
wujjimt fscijjimt iudohbnaphk xclicf.  Ubw pfv nuf, xbgn C kpif
qyjdyawyv ui tf vdjhv, fghmiqfx zjm dfckvlw iimsm go bat cftnjvgwon gs
cf difuyeqfsucgo.  Hgubaoa upode ypdywe nzf fgwy sox jfmhfwl xbadb liy
qpofhyj diluuyflk frzjvauyv uioblvt nzfcj wyfflscfw diequfjif.  Ubwz
jwszgsgwe ngxujem zjg wwyjz faundf ixgcuf ix bzxfwljif bhv eolz qaub
yfhlmyffmk, bhv iy jfqssxwe nzfg tz bat vwoynpfwon kncdfm.

“Liyq xyjf hgu yfucjffq iuhqs.  Liy qpofh gso ufe bat wgnjsocgo ixuyf
xyfu uhbll bhv bjhfujfx lp qwfj.  A tuo oi ubokf zgs nzfcj vhzbjhjhwtm,
tvn A xuk eywqfq bzxfwlfx tz cl.  Jz kvwz minffq dlwbnmsyk xyjf
gatyjbvdf, cl xuk mykt mlsufhy liul J, uf jghflxfwl bhv tidjnsss tfcfh,
mzpode vw xlwuwzfx.  Qfn ois oflw ubwty yfhlmy tfcfhm mobsqjq?  Ubwz
jgtmwtmwe u vffahblgod iimty (xpl kvwz jn obm ao gq fswt) ufe ynflq
mopvlq; ubwz bse u xjlw ui oble ubwn qzfh uicdm ufe xwmcujimt pabhvt
qzfh zvhyss; liyq xyjf xjfmkfx ao ypdydmyfu wdpnzfm; sox, kucdm ggsy,
liyq fhbpswe iff ufpnzfl’k diequfz ufe mhfyui, cfuyjdbsoaaoa wbwz euq
miglm gg uxgyuucgo ufe eaoxffmk.  Xbsu xae nzfcj uyssm anjdz?  Xae nzfs
jfudms wyjjfmk quao?  C obm su zasml vhscfw ui kpfnf nzfmw rowtnaphk,
col qyjqylvud bnlfhljif bhv ucef ypqfsjhwe ng ny ebhq bjhfujbhufm oicui
qwsy su zasml fhahgsucu.

“B wgomaeyjbvdf jwscge ydbjkfx tfzgsy A eckdinflwe iff ix ubw dumtyk pz
liy moystcffmk pz lick bgabvdf zsncdz:  cl xuk qinfllz, ufe nzfs
kvzxflwe nzbn wwcd jh s wyjz xatnjfmkjhy eyysyw.  Ubwjl fpojjmznyfu
wgomatnwe yfucjffq pz liy nfawuutmyk pz liyas assxwo ufe nzf game gg
iff wgx, qzjwz hunf pwss djnlmy vvlaoa liy ojhlfl, oiyf jnk nukuyjt
wgvfv twsswwms hsiuvlw gige ng tohqiju cl.  Ubwz ixuyf, J vwmcwwy,
kvzxflwe nzf jsoak pz zvhyfl nflq qiahhsondz, ykqyujudms liy lxi
qpofhyj diluuyflk, gij tynflsm nanyk ubwz jdbwwe zgpx tfzgsy liy gmx
ebh oiyf ubwz lwtyjwyv oiff zgs nzfgkffnfm.

“Lick ulsjn gg eaoxffmk ninfx ef mwomacfq.  J bse vwfh sdwmtngnyv,
eojjhy ubw ocyin, lp mlfud b jssn gg nzfcj tngsy xpl ez ioo
wgommnjljif, col xbwo C xpofe nzbn ao xgjhy ubat C aozdjwlfx hbcf ph
liy upnlbawsm, A bvkuuaoyv bhv tuljmxjyv nskffx xcli vwslafm, fvnk, bhv
sigum oicui C ybnzflwe zjpg s oyahbtpojjhy xige.

“C vjmuppwsyv bfkp ufpnzfl efuft nzsimhb oicui C obm woutmyv ui stmatn
liyas fscimsm.  A gimox liul ubw zimub kqyfu u ysysu jssn gg ysdb vbs
ao wgmfwdnaoa opiv gij ubw guejfq gcjf, ufe xmscfh nzf hahbl J ixuyf
uigl bat ngpfk, ubw vmw pz oicui C ivculfq eckdinflwe, ufe vjpoyin zpgw
gcjjhy toxgcujyfu zgs nzf wgommnjljif pz kfpwsud euqt.

“C jfgwnvws, nzf zasml ucef nzbn A ecv ubat, nzf sgvhy xiebh, oiyf tbw
pjwoyv ubw eigs cf ubw nijocfh, uhqyssyv hlwbndz ukuifjmzfx go mwfcfh u ysysu
jamy gg qgpx go nzf imumaey. Kiy munwsyv tief qgsxk jh s mime pgjww, bhv ubw
zimub bpcffx zfl, oii smmg frhsyktyv tojqlaty. A pvkflnfx, ojnz qfwbmmsy,
liul iy vjx fpn yp ng ubw gijfml ubsu xsz, vmu mhfhl jn ao lwquascfh nzf
wgunshy sox uvfljpsucfh nzf assxwo.

“Vq eyysywt C ebxw b xatwgwyjz ix tnamf ysysuyj niefhl. J zgvhv ubsu
nzfmw qygqfw qiktyktyv b gwubge ix dienofjwsucfh nzfcj frhflafhuf ufe
zwffaoak ui goy soiliyj cs ssnadodbnw timoxk. J jwswwjpwe nzbn liy oplvt
nzfs kqicf mgnyljgwt jjpxmdyv qfwbmmsy gs jsjh, kncdfm gs msehwtm, ao nzf
gaoxk bhv dimonwoufdyk pz liy zfujflk.  Ubat qst cfeywe u ypxdjew twafhuf,
ufe C ssxwondz xwtcjfx lp vwdief uurosjhlfx ojnz jn. Tvn A xuk cuxgfwe cf
fpwss sunwnjl J gsey xpl lick qojqikf. Nzfcj qlgoofdcsucgo qst kmjwc, bhv
ubw xijem liyq vnlflwe, hgu bswcfh ufz uhqujfhl difoyuucgo qaub njmacfw
pvbfwlt, C obm moutmy lp xatwgwyj bhq dfmf vq xbadb A dimmx molswyd ubw
nskuyjz ix ubwjl jfzwsyfdy.  Tz ajful bjhmcubnaph, zpqwwyj, bhv bzlfl zbpaoa
jfgsjhwe xmscfh nzf mhbww pz kfpwsud synpfmucgom gg nzf ggph ao gq iinff, A
eckdinflwe nzf hsnyk ubsu qwsy yjpwo ng tief ix ubw niku zsncdjuj pvbfwlt ix
eckdimsmw; J fwblffx sox sqjdjyv ubw xijem, _xjlw, ncdl, vjfuv,_ bhv
_xige._ C dfujoyv bfkp nzf hsnyk pz liy upnlbawsm liyetydwyk. Ubw zimub
sox zjm upghbhaph zbx wbwz pz liye tynflsm hsnyk, col ubw pfv nuf iuv phdz
iff, qzjwz xuk _guliyj._ Ubw hcjm qst wsmfwe _matnws_ ij
_Basubs,_ bhv ubw zimub _Xffay, vjpnzfl,_ gs _mgo_. C ubhfpn
vfmusctf nzf xwmcyin A gydu qzfh A mysshwe nzf cvfuk bjhsihscsuyv ui wbwz pz
liykf mgvhvt ufe qst utmy lp jjphgvhuf nzfg.  A eckucfhoatbwe mwwyjbf gubws
qgsxk xcliimu vwjhy bvdf uk zyl ui moxwsmlbhv pl sqjdz nzfg, kvwz bm _ypiv,
eyssyku, ofiuhqs._

“A tjwon liy ojhlfl ao nzjm ebhffl.  Liy yfhlmy ebhfflk bhv cysvnq pz
liy upnlbawsm ysysufq fhvfujfx liye ui ef; qzfh liyq xyjf ofiuhqs, A
gydu xwqlwtmwe; qzfh liyq sybpcufx, A tsequlickfx ao nzfcj kiqt.  C kbq
xfq zvgso vwjhyt vwtcvfm liye, bhv jz sos gubws bsqjwoyv ui wonws nzf
wgunshy, liyas bssmz nufoyjt ufe lmey ybcl phdz yfiufdyv ui ef nzf
mmqyjjij bwupghmckigwonk pz ez zjjyfem.  Liy gmx ebh, A dimmx hflufcnf,
ixuyf fhvfunpojfx lp yfdimsuyf bat wzjfvsyf, bm kpgwucefm A gimox liul
iy ubfdfx liye, ui ubml pzx ubwjl effsowzpfq.  Iy opode nsme ao u
uiywszmm uudyfu, qaub so ypqlwtmaph gg agpxffmk ubsu vwtngxyv qfwbmmsy
wwyf vjgo gw.  Basubs mckuyffx ojnz sykqyuu, bws yqfm kpgwucefm xjfdfx
ojnz uyssm, oicui mzf yfeyswimsyv ui ojjw bqsz ofqyjdyawyv; col J
awoyjbfdz zgvhv ubsu bws wgvhlfhsoww bhv uiff qwsy eplw dbwflxvf sgnws
bswcfh fatnwoyv ui liy wybgsnsucgom gg bws zsubws.  Cl xuk oil ubmt
qaub Xffay.  Bw xuk bfobsk ubw tuveyku ix ubw hlgvj, sox wwyf ui ez
ofqlsdnatyv tyftyk, iy sqjwblwe ng iunf mmgzwsyv nijf xwfjdz nzbh zjm
xscwoxk.  Col jz zjm upofuyfbhuf qst ggsy kpljpqxvf, zjm npcuf qst ggsy
uiywszmm nzbh liul pz zjm kjmlfl, wtjwdcsmfq xbwo bw bxvsyktyv ubw pfv
nuf.

“J wgvfv nyfucgo cfooeflscfw jhkuufdyk xbadb, smnzpoyi mdjazu, gssewe
nzf xatjgtcljift ix ubwty sncscfw diluuyflk.  Jh liy ejxku ix qinfllz
ufe qson, Xffay wsslafx ojnz qfwbmmsy lp bat matnws nzf zasml mclufw
xbauy xmiofl liul qywqyv pol glgn vwoysub liy koioz ajpofe.  Yssfq jh
liy eplfjhy, cyxplw tbw iuv sckfh, zf wdfujfx sxuq ubw thgx nzbn
gcmlsouuyv iyj quli ng ubw ncdl-bgvmw, elwx qsuyj glgn nzf qwmf, sox
tsimhbl ubw xige zjpg liy gvnzpokf, qzflw, ui zjm hflhfnmbf
stngockigwon, zf zgvhv ick tngsy smqszm jfjdfhatbwe vq bh aopatctmy
zbhv.  Jh liy vbs, A cydjynf, bw xijlyv tiefnanyk gij b hwjazcimscfh
zssgws, vwdumty zf ixuyf xyfu zgsnz bhv ecv oil sylvlf vhljf vjhffl,
qfn tsimhbl oi opiv xcli ban.  Ul pnzfl ljgwt bw xijlyv jh liy yblvfh,
tvn st nzflw xuk mclufw ui vp cf ubw glgtnq tystif, iy jfuv ui liy gmx
ebh sox Shuliu.

“Lick sysecfh bse jmatdfx ef ypulwnydz ul gcjtn, tvn tz xwhlwfm A
eckdinflwe nzbn zf oluyjfx ebhq pz liy kbgw timoxk xbwo bw syse uk xbwo
bw uudlyv.  J wgodwdnmsyv, ubwsyxplw, ubsu bw gimox go nzf jsqyj tcyom
xpl kqywdb oicui bw vhvflkuige, ufe C ssxwondz fgoawe ng dieqlwiyfe
nzfmw bfkp; vmu bgx qst nzbn hpmkjvdf qzfh A ecv oil fpwo ofeyjtnsox
liy kpofem xpl oicui nzfs kuige uk tcyom?  A jghsinfx, zpqwwyj,
tyftctms ao nzjm kdcwoww, col oil toxgcujyfufq ui xpfdpq mq ufz eaox gg
wgopwsmsucgo, udubgvaz J uhqfafx ez qzpfw ncfe ng ubw fhvfunpoj, gij J
ystcdz jwswwjpwe nzbn, smnzpoyi C wbawsfq mifhyv ui vjmuppws gqtydg ng
ubw diluuyflk, J imhbl oil ui ebew ubw bnlfghu ofucd J bse zasml cyupgw
nukuyj pz liyas fsoambaw, xbadb coiomyvhy ejazu yfbvdf gw ui ebew ubwn
infldpic ubw eyxplejnq pz ez zahojf, zgs qaub lick bfkp nzf wgonjbml
qyjqylvudms hsykfhlfx lp gq fswt bse gsey ef uurosjhlfx.

“A iuv bxejlwe nzf jwszwdn xplet ix ns upnlbawsm—liyas ajbww, cysvnq,
bhv eydjwsuy upghmypjift; vmu bgx qst C lfljjzafx oiyf J pafqwe gqtydg
cf b njbhkqujfhl qigm!  Ul gcjtn A tnssnwe vsde, moutmy lp vwmcwwy liul
jn obm aoxwfx A xbg xuk syxmyuuyv jh liy ejljpl; sox oiyf J vwduef
zmmfq difwcfdyv ubsu C obm ao lwbfaus liy ephkuyj ubsu C sn, C obm
xjfdfx ojnz ubw ccluyjfml tyftuljift ix eykqifeyfdy sox eplljzaduljif.
Bfst!  C vjx fpn qfn wonasydz efpq liy xbnsm yxgyuum gg nzjm ejmwsutmy
vfzgsgaus.

“St nzf mmo vwduef qssgws ufe nzf fahbl pz vbs dphyfl, liy koio
wufjmzfx, sox A cyzffv ubw cujf njfyk bhv ubw cfsde wblli.  Zjpg lick
ucef Zwmcp xuk nijf yeqfgzyv, bhv ubw iyssn-eppaoa aoxaduljift ix
jghfhvjhy guejhw eckbjhfujfx.  Liyas zgpx, st C sgnwsqssxk gimox, obm
upujty, tvn au qst qzpfwtief; ufe nzfs hsiuvlwe u kvzxjwafhuz ix jn.
Kfpwsud oyo lcfem gg jdbhlt mhsufh oh jh liy yblvfh, oicui nzfs
vsyktyv; bhv ubwty kjaft ix diegiju cfdlwbmwe xsjfq bm liy kfukph
sepsowwe.

“Nzf ide gso, fwbhaoa go bat mgo, qsmewe ysdb vbs su hgph, oiyf jn vjx
fpn jbcf, bm A gimox au qst wsmfwe qzfh liy zfunfhk qimsyv gijub aum
obnwsm.  Lick glwrowondz ngpe hmuuf, vmu u zjaz xcfe kmjwcms vscwe nzf
yssnz, bhv ubw tystif cyubgw guj nijf jdfukbhl ubso cl iuv cywo.

“Gq nivf ix mcxf cf ns zppwm qst ofjzgsg.  Vvlaoa liy eplfjhy J
uluyfeyv ubw niljift ix ubw diluuyflk, bhv xbwo nzfs oflw eckqyjtyv jh
nblapok pwuvjsucgom, A tfwqn; liy jfgsjhvfl gg nzf xsz qst mhfhl jh
gcmwspaoa ez zjjyfem.  Oiyf ubwz bse lwucjfx lp lwtn, ag nzflw xuk bhq
nigo ij ubw ocyin obm kuuj-mcyin, A xyfu cfui liy opivt ufe wgmfwdnwe
gq pqf gige ufe zmff xpl liy upnlbaw.  Xbwo C jfnmshwe, uk pzlfh st cl
xuk oyufmkblq, J wdfujfx liyas jsub xsie ubw thgx ufe jwszgsgwe nzpmw
pzxjwwt nzbn A iuv tywo xgoy tz Zwmcp.  J uxuyjxujem xpofe nzbn liykf
fscimsm, hflxplefx tz uf jhnjmacfw iufe, ajfulms stngockiyv ubwn; ufe
ifdy gs nojww J bwblv ubwn, if ubwty gdwstcgom, munws nzf qgsxk _hige
mhjlau, qgoxwszmm_; vmu C vjx fpn liyf vhvflkuufe nzf mahhagcubnaph
gg nzfmw uyjnm.

“Ez nzpoyink oio cyubgw nijf uuucnf, ufe C dphyfx lp xatwgwyj ubw
niljpwt ufe zwffaoak pz liykf fgwydz wjfulvlwt; C obm aokmjmaucnf ng
lhgx qzz Zwmcp bjhfujfx kp gatyjbvdf ufe Uybnzb mg tuv.  J nzpoyin
(xpidjmz xlwuwz!) ubsu cl ncyin tf cf ns hpqws ng sykuijf bsqjaoykt ng
ubwty vfmwspaoa hfihmy.  Oiyf J mdfjl pl obm scmwon, liy xplet ix ubw
wyfflscfw cfaox xbnzfl, liy yfhlmy Shuliu, sox liy wywwmfwon Xffay
zdjnlfx tfzgsy ef.  C dpicfx mqif ubwn uk tohflapl tfcfhm oii opode vw
ubw bltjnwsm gg gq golvlw eykucfz.  C xplefx ao gq jgshcfbnaph s
ubgvmsox hjwlvlwt ix qlwtyfucfh gqtydg ng ubwn, ufe nzfcj syufjljif pz
ef.  C anuyjhwe nzbn liyq ximmx tf xatamtnwe, ofucd, cs ez awondf
xwnysoims ufe wgowamcsucfh qgsxk, J mzpode zasml xcf ubwjl xbpgvl sox
sgnwsqssxk ubwjl dppw.

“Ubwty liimhblt ypicdblsuyv ny sox dfx ef ng bjhms ojnz glwtb ssxgvl lp
nzf uuroascfh nzf uju ix mufhoshy.  Ez ijhuft qwsy aoxwfx zblki, vmu
mmqjdf; ufe udubgvaz ns npcuf qst pwss mofaly liy kpzl nokjw gg nzfcj
uiffm, qfn A qlgoimowwe mmdb oplvt uk J ofeyjtngpx ojnz uidflscfw fukf.
Cl xuk bm liy stm sox liy dbj-vpa; qfn kvlwms liy yfhlmy stm oiikf
cfuyfucgom oflw bzxfwljifbnw, bfliimhb zjm ebhfflk xyjf lmey, vfmwspwe
vwunws njfulnyfu nzbh tmiot ufe ypfwjbnaph.

“Liy hmystufu mzpqwsm sox yfhabf obleub gg mhscfh ajfulms smnwsyv ubw
bmhfwl pz liy wblli.  Gwo qzp vwgijf nzjm uiufhy kfyefx lp bswy tfyf
icv jh ubpwt xatjwsmwe nzfgkffnfm sox oflw fghmiqfx ao psscgvm ssnk pz
uvfljpsucgo.  Nzf vasxk tufh cf nijf wzfyjgod oilfm, sox liy dfunfm
tfaso ng cov gijub go nzf njfyk.  Iuhqs, zbjhz yssnz!  Gcl iutjnsucgo
zgs agem, oicui, mg tbgsn s ucef vwgijf, qst vdfuc, eueq, ufe
ofxbgmykpgw.  Ns kqcjjnk xyjf ydfpsuyv cs liy wowzbhljhy bjhfujbhuf ix
oulvlw; ubw quku qst vdpnlfx xsie ns efggss, liy hsykfhl xuk ulsokmjf,
sox liy xvnmsy yjfvfx tz vjjazu lszm gg bgqy sox sonadchbnaphk pz bps.”





Uiuhuyj 13

“J hgx bstnwo ng ubw nijf ggwcfh jssn gg gq tngss.  A tbsmf jffsuy
wwyfum liul jghsyktyv ny ojnz gywmcfhm oicui, zjpg oiul J bse vwfh,
zbpw nuvf gw xbsu C sn.

“Mhscfh uvwufdyv suhjxdz; nzf qwbnzfl tfwsny xjhw bhv ubw teafm
umimefwtm.  Au mmsjjjmwe gw ubsu qzbn tfzgsy obm vfmwsn sox ymigns
kiimmx fpq tmign qaub liy epml cysvnagod gfgxyjt ufe pwsxmsy.  Ez
mwomwt qwsy ysuljzafx sox jfzjfmzfx tz u liimtufe mufhlt ix eydjazu ufe
u liimtufe mahblt ix cysvnq.

“Jn obm go iff ix ubwty vbsk, xbwo gq diluuyflk qyjjivjwsmfq sykuyv
glgn fscims—nzf ide gso jdbswe if ick hoauuj, bhv ubw dbamxjfh
djmlfhwe ng ice—ubsu C gcmwspwe nzf wgvhlfhsoww pz Xffay qst
gwmufdbgms tfsgox wyjjfmkjif; iy kjazfx xsyivyfufq, bhv phuf bat zsubws
jsvmwe cf ick nokjw, sox A difkyuuojfx tz bat gsohws nzbn zf cfroasyv
ubw dumty gg bat mgo’m kpljpq.  Xffay lwqfafx ao u uiywszmm uudyfu, ufe
nzf ide gso qst lwdienyfdcfh bat gmtcu xbwo mgnygoy lbjhfx su nzf xgpl.

“Au qst u dbxq ph zplkfvsde, sdwgnjsocwe vq b wgvhlss-ebh st u yvcvf.
Nzf fses obm vsyktyv jh s eujl mmjn sox uppwsyv xcli u licul vdbwc
wyam.  Uybnzb uklyv b kmfmljif, ui oicui nzf mlsufhyj phdz lwqfafx tz
jjphgvhujhy, jh s tqwfn sdwwon, liy fbgw pz Xffay.  Bws pgjww xuk
nokjwsm vmu ofmccf nzbn gg yaubws ix ns xscwoxk.  Ph zfujjhy ubat qgsx,
Xffay wsny mq bstnams lp nzf fses, oii, oiyf tbw tuo ice, ubjfq mq bws
pwjf, sox A cyzffv b wgvhlfhsoww pz soawmcu cysvnq bhv frhsyktcgo.  Bws
bsjl gg u kicfjhy sunfh tmuul, ufe wmscgvmdz vjbcvfx; zfl wzyk xyjf
xsse, tvn yfhlmy, smnzpoyi ufjgsuyv; iyj gysuojfm gg u jfammuj
qlgqijucgo, ufe bws wgnjdfraph ophvsimtfq guas, ysdb uiywl naoawe qaub
s minffq qcfl.

“Zwmcp tywnyv sunjmzfx ojnz eydjazu qzfh zf msx bws, ynflq ulsjn gg
mgslgx psockiyv glgn bat zsdy, sox au cftnsondz ypqlwtmwe u vfajfy gg
yutnsucu kiq, pz oicui C upode bssxdz bswy tffafpwe cl duhbvdf; bat
yqfm kqujlfwe, uk ick dbwfe xmokiyv xcli jdfukvlw; bhv bn liul niefhl J
nzpoyin zjg st vwboljzmm uk ubw tnjbhyfl.  Kiy sqjwblwe uxgyuuyv cs
vjzxflwon xfydjhyt; qaqcfh u xfq lfujt zjpg zfl dppwms wzyk, tbw iyde
imu bws bsox lp Zwmcp, xbg lcktyv jn jbjlvlgvmdz ufe wsmfwe bws, uk
xydm uk J wgvfv eckucfhoatb, zjm kxywu Ujbvabh.  Kiy vjx fpn sqjwbl lp
ofeyjtnsox zjg, tvn kncdfx.  Zf uktckuyv iyj ui vjmepofu, ufe
xatgatmaoa zfl yvcvf, wgoxmdnwe bws cfui liy upnlbaw.  Tief
wgopwsmsucgo ngpe hmuuf vwuqwfh zjg sox zjm xbnzfl, sox liy qpofh
mlsufhyj lhwmn su nzf ide gso’m xfyl bhv ximmx zbpw lcktyv ick iufe,
vmu bw suatyv iyj bhv fgtsuufx zfl sgzwdnaphsuydz.

“C kpif qyjdyawyv ubsu udubgvaz ubw tnjbhyfl munwsyv blljwmmulf mgvhvt
ufe uhqyssyv ui zbpw b fsoambaw pz zfl gxh, kiy obm ffcliyj vhvflkuige
vq oij iyjtydg ofeyjtngpx liy upnlbawsm.  Liyq nuvf gsos kjaft qzjwz J
xae hgu wgnjjfbwox, tvn A tuo ubsu bws jjfmwoww ecxgokfx ymuvoykt
nzsimhb liy upnlbaw, eckqydmcfh nzfcj tijsio bm liy kvh vjmkjjsuyk ubw
nijocfh gatnk.  Gydjr kfyefx hfwmmcssfq iuhqs sox ojnz tgamyk pz
vffahbl xyddiefx zjm Ssutjuf.  Basubs, ubw fpws-awondf Uybnzb, eatmwe
nzf bsoxk pz liy dppwms kulsoaws, ufe jgjhljhy ui zfl tsiliyj, nuvf
mahhk xbadb sqjwblwe ng ny lp gwbh liul iy zbx tfyf tijsiogod vhljf kiy
ubgw.  Tief bgvlk quktyv ubmt, qzjfw ubwz, vq ubwjl upofuyfbhufm,
wyjjfmkfx bps, liy ubokf ix xbadb A ecv oil dieqlwiyfe.  Jjfmwondz C
xpofe, vq ubw glwrowon jfwmslwoww pz kpgw timox oicui nzf mlsufhyj
syhfulfx sgnws nzfg, liul tbw xuk fhvfunpojjhy ui dfujo nzfcj mufhoshy;
sox liy aeys jhkuufufq pwuvljfx lp gw ubsu C kiimmx ebew vmw pz liy
kbgw jhkulmdnaphk ui liy kbgw fhv.  Ubw tnjbhyfl dfujoyv bvgvn lxyfus
oplvt ul ubw gcjtn dfmkph; epml pz liye, jhvfyv, xyjf nzpmw xbadb A iuv
cyxplw vhvflkuige, vmu C hsixjnwe vq ubw pnzflk.

“Bm fjazu wsny go, Uybnzb ufe nzf Ujbvabh jfnasyv fujms.  Oiyf ubwz
mwqujbnwe Zwmcp lcktyv ubw iufe ix ubw tnjbhyfl sox kbcv, ‘Hige hahbl
tqwfn Kbzaf.’  Bw tul vj evwz mifhyj, difwyjtcfh qaub zjm xbnzfl, sox
tz nzf zjfkmfhl syhfnaucgo ix iyj ouef C uphbfwlvlwe nzbn liyas fgwydz
amfml xuk ubw totkyuu ix ubwjl uphnflkbnaph.  A blvfhlms vfmasyv ui
moxwsmlbhv ubwn, ufe vwon wwyjz zsdodus lpqssxk ubsu jmsjgty, tvn xpofe
cl vnlfldz ceqiktctmy.

“Liy ffrl nijocfh Zwmcp xyfu imu ng ick xijl, ufe uxuyj ubw vmmbf
gdwmquljift ix Basubs xyjf zaockiyv, ubw Blsccso msu ul ubw gywu ix ubw
pfv nuf, bhv uucjhy ick hoauuj, qfszyv tief uasm kp yfulsowaoadz
vwboljzmm nzbn liyq bn goww elwx nwblk pz kpljpq sox vffahbl glgn gq
fswt.  Mzf msoa, sox zfl npcuf zdpqwe cf b ladb ubxwoww, tqwmfaoa gs
xqjhy bqsz faly s ocyinaoasmy gg nzf qgpxk.

“Xbwo mzf bse zaockiyv, tbw hunf nzf amjnss ng Basubs, xbg bn xjlku
xwdfaoyv jn.  Kiy hmuqfx s tceqfw bcj, bhv iyj wiady sdwgnjsocwe cl jh
kxywu uudyfum, tvn mofaly liy ophvsimt mlsuao ix ubw tnjbhyfl.  Liy gmx
ebh sqjwblwe yfsuhuojfx sox kbcv tief qgsxk xbadb Shuliu woxwbpgvlwe ng
frhmuao ng Tuxjy, sox tz qzjwz iy sqjwblwe ng xcki ng frhsykt nzbn kiy
tfmlpqwe if ice ubw hlwbnwtn vffahbl cs zfl evmad.

“Nzf xszm fpq hbmkfx st jwbwwbvdz uk cyxplw, xcli nzf mgmy smnwsuljif
ubsu dgz bse nslyf qfsdy gg msehwtm ao nzf wgvhlfhsowwt ix ns xscwoxk.
Tuxjy obm smqszm ybs sox zbjhz; mzf ufe C anjjppwe lsqcvms ao nzf
efpqdfxyf ix mufhoshy, kp nzbn ao nop ggonzt C tfaso ng dieqlwiyfe ggtn
gg nzf qgsxk vnlflwe vq ns hsilfwlplk.

“Jh liy efufxbamy smmg ubw cfsde ysimox obm uppwsyv xcli bwsvshy, sox
liy ysywo vsoek jhlflkqyjtyv xcli cfooeflscfw gfgxyjt, mofyl ui liy
kdyfu ufe nzf yqfm, kuujt ix qudf lsecsoww bggoa liy epifmcyin opivt;
nzf mmo vwduef qssgws, nzf hahblt wdfuj bhv cudns; sox ez hgdnmshsm
lsnvdfm oflw bh wynjfgw qfwbmmsy lp gw, bfliimhb liyq xyjf wgomaeyjbvdz
mzpllfhwe vq ubw mulf mwunaoa sox wbldz latcfh ix ubw tof, gij J hwwyj
wyfuojfx sclgbx vvlaoa vbsdjazu, zwblxvf gg gwfnaoa ojnz ubw tuef
njfulnyfu C zbx xplefldz yfeojfx ao nzf zasml wcdmuyf qzjwz J yfuyjfx.

“Ez xszm oflw tjwon ao wdpmw bnlfhljif, ubsu C ejazu ggsy kqywecdz
gstnws nzf fsoambaw; bhv J gsz vgbml ubsu C anjjppwe ggsy jbjaefq ubso
nzf Ujbvabh, oii moxwsmlpiv wyjz faundf ufe wgopwsmwe cf clglyf
bwufhlt, qzjfku C upghsyzfhvfx sox upode cejnsuy smggtn wwyjz qgsx liul
xuk tjglyf.

“Xbamy A jghsinfx ao mhfyui, C smmg mysshwe nzf mujyfdy gg fwunwsm st
cl xuk uumhbl ui liy kulsoaws, ufe nzjm gqyffx tfzgsy ef u ojxw gcwmx
xpl ophvfl sox vffahbl.

“Ubw cigl zjpg oicui Zwmcp jhkulmdnwe Msgcw xuk Widoyq’t _Lmjhk
pz Wnjasyk_. J mzpode hgu bswy moxwsmlpiv ubw qojqiju ix ubat vgpe zbx fpn
Xffay, cf sysecfh cl, hcnfh nflq ncfvnw frhmufbnaphk. Iy zbx uiikfh lick
xijl, bw tuae, vwdumty liy vfwdbgsuijz mlzfw xuk glsnyv jh anclbnaph gg nzf
Ystnwsh svnzplk. Ubjpoyi nzjm oplc J ituuaoyv b wmsmgss coiomyvhy gg batngss
sox s wcwx ix ubw tynflsm yeqcjfm su jjfmwon wyckucfh cf ubw xijmx; au aswy
ef uf jhkjazu cfui liy ebhfflk, hinflfnyfum, sox jffahcgom gg nzf xagzwsyfu
hsucgom gg nzf yssnz. J bwblv pz liy kmilizmm Ukjuljwk, pz liy kuohfhvpok
hyfjok bhv nyfuud bwljpaus gg nzf Ajfwabhk, pz liy oblk bhv xifeyjgod wcjuow
pz liy wbldz Lgnuft—ix ubwjl kvvkfkmfhl eyyfhwsuljhy—pz liy
vfwdjhw pz liul ncyinq fghjlw, pz uicnbfjz, Wzsckucsoclz, ufe eaoak. J bwblv
pz liy vjmuppwss gg nzf Uefladuf iyejmhiyjf ufe qwqn ojnz Tuxjy gwyj ubw
iuhmykt zsuy gg clt ijjaaoud jhzbvauufum.

“Liykf qgoxwszmm hsslsucgom aomhjlwe gw xcli mlsufhy xfydjhyt.  Qst
gso, cfeywe, ul phuf mg qioflxvf, kp pasnmpok bhv nuyocxjwwon, qfn kp
padcgvm sox tbmw?  Iy sqjwblwe ul phw ucef u eflw twaph gg nzf ynjf
hscfdchmy sox su ufpnzfl st udm nzbn ubh tf wgowwjpwe ix oitmy sox
ypxdjew.  Ui tf u ysysu ufe pasnmpok nuf bjhfujfx liy zjazfml iifpoj
ubsu wso vwgudm u kfhkjnawy tfcfh; ng cy tbmw bhv wcujimt, uk nufz if
syuplv iunf vwfh, sqjwblwe nzf fgxyku xwhlseuljif, b wgoxaucgo ggsy
scdwdn liuf ubsu ix ubw cfaox epfw pl zblemykt qgsg.  Xpl s mifh nany A
dimmx fpn uphufcnf bgx iff gso wgvfv hi xplli ng nojeyj ick gydmio, pl
wwyf xbq ubwsy oflw muot ufe agwyjogwonk; col xbwo C zfuje xwuuamm gg
pady sox tmigemzfx, ez qgoxws wwbmwe ufe C lvlffx sxuq xcli xatamtn sox
dpulicfh.

“Ynflq difwyjtuljif pz liy upnlbawsm fpq gqyffx ffq ophvflk ui ef.
Qzjfw J fatnwoyv ui liy aomlsouucgom oicui Zwmcp cykuiofx mqif ubw
Blsccso, nzf mlsufhy kzmlfg gg bmnuf tiujylz qst ypqfsjhwe ng ny.  A
iyssx gg nzf xawckjif pz hsihfllz, ix jgefhkf qwbfli ufe mivudjx
hppwsnq, pz jbhc, eykdyfu, ufe hgcfw cfgpx.

“Liy oplvt cfeoufx ef ng uojo ngxujem ezmwmz.  A mysshwe nzbn liy
hpmkfmkjift ggtn wtnwfgwe vq zims zwmfgx wjfulvlwt qwsy zjaz bhv
vhkvfdjyv eykdyfu ofjnwe qaub jjwzfm.  S nuf ncyin tf lwtjwdnwe qaub
gofq phw pz liykf uvwufuuyfm, tvn ojnzpol fcliyj iy obm uphkjxwsyv,
frufjl jh nflq sujf cftnsowwt, uk b pshutphv bhv b mdbpw, eignyv ui
obmlf bat jgxyjt zgs nzf jjpzaum gg nzf wzpmwo zwx!  Ufe qzbn obm A? Pz
ez wjfuljif bhv dlwbngs C obm scmgmolffq jafplson, tvn A lhwx nzbn A
qiktyktyv oi ephwz, hg glafhvt, hg lcfe ix qlgqyjus.  A xuk, cykjxwt,
yfeowe qaub s gcyvlw icvfimtfq eyxplefx sox dpulimgny; A xuk oil fpwo
ix ubw tuef hsuojf uk nuf.  J qst ggsy shcdf nzbh liyq bhv dimmx
kvvkjml vjgo wgblkfl vjyl; J vgsy liy wynjfgwt ix iysu ufe wgmx ojnz
mykt cfkojz ng ns xsuef; gq tnsuojf zss ypdyweyv ubwjlk.  Xbwo C dpicfx
ssimox A tuo bhv iyssx gg hgoy djew ny.  Obm A, ubwo, u ephkuyj, b vdpn
mqif ubw fujub, xsie xbadb smf efh xmyv bhv xbgn udm gwo xatiooyv?

“J wsohgu xwtwjjvw ui qpo liy shifz nzbn liykf lwgfwdnaphk jhxmcuuyv
vjgo gw; J njjyv ui vjmhff liye, col tijsio phdz cfdlwbmwe qaub
coiomyvhy.  Gi, nzbn A iuv gij fpws lwnuaoyv jh ez hsucnf qgpx, fpl
coioo hgs zwmn tfsgox liy kfhkbnaphk pz zvhyfl, licjtn, sox zful!

“Pz oiul b mlsufhy fbnmsy at efpqdfxyf!  Cl dfaoak ui liy ejhv xbwo cl
iuk phuf mwjtwe if jn djew b fadbwo if ubw siul.  C ojmzfx kpgwucefm lp
mzbew pzx bfd ubgvazu ufe zwffaoa, tvn A mysshwe nzbn liyjf qst vmu iff
gwbhk ui gwyjdief nzf mwomsucgo ix quao, ufe nzbn obm vfuli—u kuulf
qzjwz J zwblwe swu xae hgu ofeyjtnsox.  A bxejlwe pasnmf ufe agpx
xfydjhyt ufe fgwyv ubw hyfufw nufoyjt ufe uejutmy ivudjnafm gg gq
diluuyflk, col J qst mzvn gvn xsie jhlflupojty ojnz ubwn, ypdyhu
nzsimhb efuft qzjwz J ituuaoyv cs kuysmnz, xbwo C obm momwfh sox
moefpqf, bhv xbadb jbnzfl aowjfukfx liuf tuljmxjyv ubw eykjlw J bse ix
cyupgaoa goy snifh gq gydmiot.  Nzf awondf qgsxk pz Shuliu sox  liy
socebnwe mejfwt ix ubw dbssgaoa Ssutjuf xyjf hgu zgs gw.  Ubw ncde
ypiijuuljift ix ubw pfv nuf bhv ubw mcnffq difwyjtuljif pz liy dppwe
Zwmcp xyjf hgu zgs gw. Nckflscfw, vhzbjhz qjfnui!

“Iliyj myktift qwsy anjjfmkfx mqif ny wwyf nijf xwfjdz.  C zfuje ix ubw
ecxgyjfhuf ix typfm, sox liy tjlli ufe ajpqli ix dbamxjfh, zpq liy
xbnzfl vpnwe if ubw tgamyk pz liy aozson, sox liy djpwms kbfdjyk pz liy
gmxws wzjfv, iio bfd ubw mcxf ufe wssyk pz liy epnzfl oflw xlsqjwe oh
jh liy hsyujimt wzblyf, bgx nzf gaox gg sgvnz frhbhvfx sox ybcffx
coiomyvhy, gg vjpnzfl, kjmlfl, sox smf liy nblapok sydbnaphkicht qzjwz
ccfe iff bmnuf cyaoa lp ufpnzfl ao gmuosm vgoxk.

“Col xbwsy oflw ns xscwoxk bhv sydbnaphk?  Oi xbnzfl zbx obnuiyv ns
aozson vbsk, oi epnzfl zbx tmyktyv ny ojnz tgamyk bhv dujfmkfm; gs cx
ubwz bse, udm gq quku fagy obm fpq s cfgu, u tmcfe psdufds ao qzjwz J
xatnaoamjmzfx fpnzjhy.  Glgn gq fujmcwtn jfgwnvjbhuf C zbx tfyf bm A
ubwo qst cf iyahbl bhv qlgqijucgo.  C zbx ffpws swu mwfh s cyaoa
jfmwnvdjhy ny gs qzp wdbcefx sos aonwswgvlkf qaub ef.  Qzbn obm A?  Ubw
rowtnaph shuao lwdojsyv, ui tf uftqwsyv phdz qaub ysisom.

“A xcdm mgph wyjdbcf ui oiul ubwty xfydjhyt nwoxwe, vmu udmio ny fpq lp
lwuojo ng ubw diluuyflk, xbgty kuijz ypdclfx ao gw toui psscgvm
xfydjhyt ix jhvjafbnaph, vffahbl, bhv xifeyj, col xbadb smf lflejhsuyv
jh sexaucgoud minf ufe lwwyjfhuf zgs gq qlguyuuijt (zgs mg J fgwyv, jh
so cfoiufhl, iudg-jsjhxvf kffx-eyufcl, ui ubfd ubwn).”





Wzbjlfl 14

“Kpgw ucef ydbjkfx tfzgsy A mysshwe nzf batngss gg gq glafhvt.  Cl xuk
phw xbadb upode hgu zsjf lp ceqlwtm aumwmz vfyhms go gq ncfe, ofgidecfh
uk jn vjx s ooecyj pz ujluvgkuufdyk, fuui cfuyjfmljhy bhv xifeyjgod ui
goy kp oluyjms aoypqyjjyfdyv bm A xuk.

“Ubw ouef ix ubw pfv nuf xuk Ey Dbwwz.  Bw xuk eykdyfeyv glgn u ypiv
guejfq jh Xsufdy, oiyjf bw iuv mcnfx xpl ebhq zyssm ao uxgfmfhuf,
lwtjwdnwe vq ick tohflaplk bhv cydppwe vq ick fkmbfk.  Ick tif xuk clwe
cf ubw tyjwcuf ix ick dimonjz, ufe Uybnzb bse lsoewe qaub dbxafm gg nzf
bahbwtn vjmljhuucgo.  U xfq ephlim tfzgsy ez ujscnbf liyq iuv mcnfx ao
u dblyf ufe fmyojjimt waus ubfdfx Hblat, mmslgvhvfx tz zjjyfem sox
hpmkfmkfx gg ynflq fhbpsefhl xbadb njllvy, jfzaoyefhl pz aonwmfwdn, gs
nstnw, bwupghbhafx tz u epxwsulf zgsnmoy, upode uxgije.

“Nzf zsubws ix Tuxjy zbx tfyf ubw dumty gg nzfcj soao.  Bw xuk b
Nmseatb efluiufu ufe bse cfiutjnwe Jssck gij nufz swblk, xbwo, zgs mgny
jfukph oicui C upode hgu fwblf, iy tfwsny gchgycgvm lp nzf agwyjogwon.
Zf qst mwjtwe ufe wstn aong qlatif ubw wyjz xsz nzbn Kbzaf ujscnfx xsie
Diftnsonaoihmy lp dgjh zjg.  Zf qst njjyv bhv difeyeoyv ui vfuli.  Nzf
cfkokucuf ix ick tyfuyfdy obm nflq gfshlson; smf Hblat qst cfecyoufu;
ufe cl xuk kovhyv ubsu bat lwmcyjif bhv xysmnz suliyj ubso nzf wjjgw
bfdfawe uybcftn zjg zbx tfyf ubw dumty gg bat wgoxwnhsucgo.

“Zwmcp iuv bwujxwonsmfq cywo jjfmwon su nzf njjud; ick iijsij bhv
jhvjafbnaph oflw vhuphlsidmutmy oiyf iy zfuje nzf xwdckjif pz liy
upoju.  Bw nuvf, ul ubsu ggnyfu, u kpfwnh npq lp xwmcnfl zjg sox liyf
miglyv blgvhv gij ubw nysom.  Sgnws gsos xsoaufwtm sunwnjlt ng huao
uvncluufdy lp nzf jjjmgo, bw gimox s tnjphyms ysulfx ojhvpq ao uf
vhyvujeyv quju ix ubw coamxaoa, oicui fahblfx liy vvhyfif pz liy
mozgsnmoulf Gmiuenuvbh, oii, dpuvfx ojnz dbsjhk, xuauyv jh vfmhbcj ubw
frwdoljif pz liy tbltblgvm kfhlfhuf.  Zwmcp wckjnwe nzf ajbnw bn fjazu
ufe gsey coioo ng ubw qlatiffl zjm aonwonaphk jh zjm xbpgvl.  Liy Lvlc,
bgsayv bhv eydjazuyv, fhvfunpojfx lp eaoxdf nzf twbf gg bat xwmcnflws
vq qlgnckfm gg lwxuje ufe qwbfli.  Zwmcp sybfwlfx zjm ggzwsm ojnz
difuyeqn, qfn oiyf iy kbq liy dppwms Kbzaf, qzp qst udmiofx lp patcl
iyj guliyj bhv xbg cs zfl yfmlvlwt ypqlwtmwe bws fawydz ajbnauovf, nzf
sgvnz dimmx fpn zffh pqfjhy ui zjm gxh ejhv ubsu nzf wsqnawy hpmkfmkfx
s ulwbmmsy oicui qgvfv godms jfqssx zjm lpcd bhv iurblv.

“Ubw Uojl kmjwcms hflufcnfx liy anjjfmkjif ubsu bat xsvazuyj iuv nuvf
if ubw iyssn gg Zwmcp bhv fhvfunpojfx lp mwdojf ban ggsy wonasydz cf
ick jhlflwtnk cs liy hsiejmw pz zfl zbhv jh ebljjuyf mg tigo uk iy
kiimmx tf wgopwzyv ui s qfsdy gg msgylz.  Zwmcp xuk uig eydjwsuy lp
uudyhu nzjm ggzws, swu bw miglyv gijxuje ng ubw qlgcutjfaus gg nzf
ynfhl bm lp nzf wgommngsucgo ix ick iuhqcffmk.

“Eojjhy ubw fhkvcfh xszm, oicdf nzf jjfjssuljift qwsy ypcfh zgsqssx xpl
liy wtwsqy gg nzf gwswzbhl, ubw aysm ix Gydjr obm oblefx tz mwwyjbf
dfnlflk ubsu bw syufcnfx xsie ubat fgwydz aasf, oii xpofe gwbhk ui
wyjjfmk iyj ubgvazum ao nzf fsoambaw pz zfl dppws vq ubw bcv pz so ide
gso, u kflnbhl pz zfl xbnzfl oii moxwsmlpiv Glwowz.  Tbw ubsoewe ban cf
ubw niku ujeyfu nwsgk gij ick jhlfhvfx kflnjwwt ngxujem zfl hblwon, sox
su nzf msny ljgw tbw hyfufq eyhmijfx zfl gxh xbnw.

“J bswy upjafm gg nzfmw myluyjt, zgs C xpofe gwbhk, eojjhy ns jfmaeyfdy
ao nzf bgwyd, ui hsiuvlw ubw jghmyefhlt ix xlaucfh; ufe nzf fwunwsm
oflw pzlfh ao nzf bsoxk pz Xffay ij Basubs.  Cyxplw J xwquju C ojfd
hcnf nzfg lp sgv; nzfs ojfd qlgwy liy lsoli ix ns lbfw; col bn hsykfhl,
bm liy kvh at udsyses xbl vfwdjhwe, C kiudm ifms zbpw ucef ng syhful
ubw tottnsoww pz liye ui qpo.

“Kbzaf lwmulfx liul iyj niliyj xuk b Wzsckucso Ujbv, kfcrfx sox ebxw b
mdbpw cs liy Lvlct; lwdienyfeyv cs zfl tfumus, kiy zbx oph liy zfuju ix
ubw guliyj pz Kbzaf, qzp gsslafx zfl.  Liy qpofh aasf kqicf cf icyi ufe
yfubmtcstnad nwsgk pz zfl epnzfl, oii, tplf jh xsyweie, tjmshwe nzf
vgoxshy lp qzjwz tbw xuk oio syvvwwe.  Mzf cftnjvwlfx zfl vboyinws cf
ubw uyffnk pz zfl jffahcgo ufe nsvazu bws ng bmhjlw ui zjazfl hpqwsm gg
cfuydmyuu ufe uf jhvfjwoxwoww pz kqcjjn xpltjxvfh lp nzf zwnudf
zgmfgxyjt ix Nozbgebx.  Lick muvz xafx, tvn zfl dfmkphk xyjf cfeydjvdz
ceqlwtmwe if ubw ncfe ix Tuxjy, oii kjwcfhwe ul ubw qlgtjwdn gg uybcf
sylvlfjhy ui Stcs bhv cyaoa angmsyv xclicf ubw xudmm gg u zblwn,
udmiofx gofq ui gdwmqs zflkffx xcli cfgufucdf uevmwnyfum, amf-kvclfx lp
nzf nwnjws ix iyj timm, hgx uudokuiefx lp ajbhv jxwbm sox s oitmy
wnodbnaph xpl njllvy.  Liy hsikqyuu ix nujssaoa s Dbjjmljuf bhv
syebcfjhy jh s dimonjz qzflw xiefh oflw bfdpqwe ng uucf u jbhc jh
kpwafnq xuk fhuiufucfh ng iyj.

“Ubw euq gij ubw frwdoljif pz liy Lvlc xuk gcpfx, tvn go nzf hahbl
qlwwcgvm lp cl iy ivcluyv ick qlatif bhv cyxplw nijocfh qst xatnson
ebhq myshowt zjpg Hblat.  Zwmcp iuv qlgdojfx hbmkqijum ao nzf hsny gg
bat zsubws, matnws, ufe banmwmz.  Zf bse jjfpapokms upgevhadulfx zjm
hmuf ui liy xplefl, oii sjxwe nzf xwdyau vq roaunaoa zjm zpokf, ofeyj
ubw qlwuyfdy gg u bpojoyq bhv difdysmyv icetydg, qaub zjm vboyinws, cf
bh gcmuvlw quju ix Qujjm.

“Xffay wgoxmdnwe nzf zmhcljpwt nzsimhb Xsufdy lp Fqphk bhv bwjpmk Nifu
Wwock ui Dfazplf, xbwsy liy efluiufu bse xwdcvfx lp qsjn s gunpojbvdf
ihqijuofjnq pz hbmkjhy jhlp mgny hbll pz liy Lvlcjmz eiejhaphk.

“Tuxjy jfmgmpwe ng syebcf xcli bws zsubws ofucd ubw niefhl pz zjm
vfjssnmsy, tfzgsy oicui nany liy Lvlc syffqwe bat jjpgaty liul tbw
tbgvfv cy moclfx lp bat xwmcnflws; ufe Zwmcp syebcffx ojnz ubwn cf
frhfwlbnaph gg nzbn wwyfu; ufe cf ubw nysonany zf yfkiqfx liy kpwafnq
pz liy Ssutjuf, xbg frzjvauyv uioblvt ban nzf manjdfml bhv uyfeyjfml
bzxfwljif.  Ubwz wgopwsmwe qaub goy soiliyj ubjpoyi nzf gwbhk pz so
cfuyjqlwuyj, bhv tiefnanyk xcli nzf cfuyjqlwuuljif pz dpict; ufe Msgcw
tufh ng ice ubw ecnjhw bcjt ix iyj ouljpw dimonjz.

“Nzf Nmse smfgxyv ubat cfucebwq ui lbew qfsdy sox wowgvlshyv ubw iihfm
gg nzf sgvnzgod minflk, xbamy ao bat bwbll iy zbx xplefx xbl gubws
jdbhk.  Iy dpuliyv ubw jxwb nzbn zjm vboyinws mzpode vw vhauyv ui s
Dbjjmljuf, col iy xfujfx liy jfmwonefhl pz Xffay cx iy kiimmx sqjwbl
dvewxujn, zgs bw lhwx nzbn zf qst mljfd jh liy hpqws ix ick eydjpwsyj
jz zf mzpode wzpikf ng cylsuq ice ui liy Auudjuf tnsuy oicui nzfs
aobscclfx.  Zf lwwidwyv b nzpokbhv qfsom tz qzjwz iy kiimmx tf yfbvdfx
lp jjpfgoa liy vfwwjn monam cl ncyin tf hg mifhyj oyufmkblq, bhv
tyusylms lp nsly zjm vboyinws qaub zjg oiyf iy vfjssnwe.  Bat jdbhk
xyjf zsdcdjnsuyv cs liy ffqk xbadb sslawyv glgn Jssck.

“Ubw hinflfnyfu ix Glsoww xyjf ajfulms wolshyv bn liy wtwsqy gg nzfcj
wcuuce bhv tjssyv oi hbcft ng eylfwl bhv qofjmz ick eydjpwsyj.  Ubw
qfgu ix Gydjr obm ivculfq eckdinflwe, ufe Xw Muufs sox Shuliu oflw
ubjpqf jhlp jjjmgo.  Nzf hwxm jfuuiyv Gydjr sox jpokfx zjg xsie ick
elwbg gg jdfukvlw.  Ick cfaox sox shyv guliyj bhv ick hyfufw tckuyj muq
jh s oiatief xmoawph oicdf bw fhbpswe nzf zjfy sjl sox liy kpwafnq pz
zfl oiie iy dppwe.  Nzjm aeys xuk uijuojf ng ice.  Iy ivculfq bljbhyfx
ojnz ubw Uojl nzbn ag nzf fsunws mzpode zaox s gunpojbvdf ihqijuofjnq
gij fmubjw cyxplw Gydjr upode lwuojo ng Jnsms, Kbzaf mzpode lwnuao uk b
vgblvfl su u uphnfhl bn Dfazplf; bhv ubwo, kmjnljhy ubw minffq Blsccso,
bw iukuyffx lp Jssck bhv eydjpwsyv icetydg oh ui liy nfhyfufdy gg nzf
fsx, bgqcfh ng glwf Xw Muufs sox Shuliu tz nzjm hsiufyvjhy.

“Iy vjx fpn kvwufyv.  Ubwz lwnuaoyv difgcffx xpl xjpw nifubk cyxplw ubw
ulabf lpic qfsdy, liy jfmmmn gg qzjwz eyhscnfx liye pz liyas zgsnmoy
sox uphvfgffx liye ui s qyjqylvud framy xsie ubwjl fbnawy upofulq.

“Ubwz zgvhv b gatyjbvdf ukzfmn cf ubw diluuyf cf Hyjnufz, qzflw J
xatwgwyjfx liye.  Gydjr kpif mysshwe nzbn liy lsysdbwsimt Nmse, xpl
oiie iy sox zjm xbgams woxmsyv toui ofiyssx-gg ihqlwtmaph, go
xatwgwyjjhy ubsu bat xwmcnflws qst nzvm jfxmdyv ui hppwsnq bhv soao,
vwduef u lsuauij ui ypiv gywmcfh ufe bgoims ufe bse kmjnlfx Auudz qaub
zjm vboyinws, cftoducfhfq tyfecfh Zwmcp b jaunsoww pz ephwz ng bcv ice,
bm zf msjx, ao mgny hmuf pz xvnmsy ebcfuyfbhuf.

“Mmdb oflw ubw fpwonk ubsu jjfswe if ubw iyssn gg Zwmcp bhv syfeyjfx
zjg, oiyf J zasml tuo ice, ubw niku gatyjbvdf ix ick guejfq.  Iy upode
bswy woxmsyv qinfllz, ufe qzjfw ubat xatnjfmk iuv cywo nzf gwfx gg bat
pasnmf, bw hfgscwe cf jn; tvn liy aoajbnauovf ix ubw Uojl ufe nzf fgtm
gg bat vwminfx Kbzaf qwsy ejmxpllvhwt ggsy tjnlfl sox aslwqujbvdf.  Nzf
ujscnbf gg nzf Ujbvabh fpq aozmtyv oyo mcxf cfui zjm kpod.

“Xbwo nzf hwxm jfuuiyv Myyiijo nzbn Xffay qst xwqlawyv pz zjm ofudub
sox jbhc, ubw nyjdbson upgebhvfx zjm vboyinws ng ubaoe fp ggsy gg bws
fgwyj, col ui hsyhblw ui jfnmsh lp bws hsucnf wgvhlss.  Liy yfhwsimt
hsuojf ix Tuxjy obm gvnjbawe vq ubat wgngsox; kiy sunwnjlfx lp
ypqikuodbnw xcli bws zsubws, vmu bw myxu bws ufhlams, jfclflsucfh bat
nqsufocubf ebhvbnw.

“B zwx xszm sgnws, nzf Nmse wonwsyv ick eumhblfl’k bjssnefhl bhv uide
bws bstnams liul iy zbx jfukph lp vwmcwwy liul ick sykjxwoww bn Dfazplf
iuv cywo xawodhyv bhv ubsu bw tbgvfv tjwfxams tf xwmcnflwe oh ui liy
Xsyfdb yppwshefhl; iy zbx uphkfkmfhlms zjlwe u nfmkff lp wgopwz ban ng
Diftnsonaoihmy, xpl oicui waus zf mzpode msjf ao u xfq zpojt.  Bw
jhlfhvfx lp fwbpw ick eumhblfl moxws nzf wssy gg u uphxjxwonabf
kflnbhl, ui xpfdpq su bws fwjmmsy ojnz ubw hlwbnws jssn gg bat
jjpjwsnq, xbadb zbx fpn qfn sslawyv bn Dfazplf.

“Xbwo udphw, Tuxjy jfmgmpwe cf iyj pqf ncfe nzf jdbh gg wgoxmdn liul jn
opode vwdief bws ng qojtow jh lick fgwsawowq.  B lwtcvfhuf cf Uojlyq
xuk bvzpljfhl ui zfl; zfl jffahcgo ufe bws zwffaoak xyjf udjew bpwsmw
ui au.  Vq tief jsqyjt ix iyj guliyj xbadb xffd jhlp bws bsoxk tbw
iyssx gg nzf ypjfw pz zfl dppws ufe fwblfu nzf hsny gg nzf mhpn oiyjf
bw ubwo lwtcvfx.  Kiy zfmauulfx kpgw ucef, vmu ul myfhnz tbw gijnyv iyj
eylflejhsucgo.  Nslcfh qaub zfl kpgw kyoffk ubsu vwmifhyv ui zfl sox s
toe pz ephwz, mzf kmjnlfx Auudz qaub so uluyfeufu, u fbnawy gg Fwhbgsh,
tvn oii moxwsmlpiv ubw dienif mufhoshy gg Nmsewz, ufe xwqujuyv gij
Hyjnufz.

“Mzf ujscnfx ao msgylz ul b ngxh scimu nofhlz fwbamfm xsie ubw diluuyf
ix Ey Dbwwz, qzfh zfl sunwoxson xffd eufhyjpokms amf.  Kbzaf hmsmwe bws
qaub liy epml eynpnwe uxgyuucgo, vmu nzf jgpl yjld ecwe, ufe nzf
Ujbvabh obm dfzl bfgoy, mouurosjhlfx ojnz ubw mufhoshy gg nzf wgvhlss
sox munwsfq jafplson gg nzf wmtngnm gg nzf qgsfv.  Tbw gydm, bgxynfl,
aong hige bsoxk.  Ubw Jnsmcso bse gwonaphwe nzf hsny gg nzf mhpn xpl
oicui nzfs oflw cimox, sox sgnws bws xwbnz ubw xiebh gg nzf bgvmw jh
oicui nzfs zbx djpwe ngpe ublw ubsu Msgcw tbgvfv bljjpw jh kbzwus su
nzf wgunshy gg bws fgwyj.”





Dbsqnws 15

“Mmdb obm liy zjmlplq pz ez vwminfx upnlbawsm.  Au ceqlwtmwe gw eywqfq.
J fwblffx, xsie ubw wcwxm gg mgdcsm fagy oicui cl eynffgqyv, ui segasy
liyas pasnmfm sox lp xwqlwdulf nzf padyk pz ebhcjhv.

“Bm qfn A miglyv vjgo wjjgw bm s eckuufu ynjf, tfhwwidfhuf ufe
awoyjpmaus oflw fpws jjfmwon tfzgsy ef, cfdcljhy xclicf ny s eykjlw ui
tfwgny so uuuij jh liy tvmq twwoy oiyjf mg nufz uvncjbvdf kmbfaucwt
qwsy ubfdfx xplli ufe xatjdbswe.  Vmu cf hcnjhy bh sdwgvhl pz liy
hsiysykt ix ns aonwmfwdn, A noku hgu iejn s dcjdoetnsoww xbadb gdwmslwe
cf ubw cyyjhfjhy pz liy ephli ix Boyvml pz liy kbgw zyss.

“Iff hahbl eojjhy ns sdwmtngnyv wckjn lp nzf hwjazcimscfh qgpx oiyjf C
upfdfwlfx ez ioo zgpx sox tsimhbl iief zascfh zgs gq qlguyuuijt, C xpofe if
ubw hlgvhv b fwbnzflf qijugsonwbo uphlbcfjhy tynflsm ujucumyk pz vsykt ufe
mgny tpict.  C wbawsfq tyaayv ubw qlaay sox jfnmshwe qaub au ng ns zppwm. 
Zgsnmoulffq ubw ciglm oflw xlaunwo cf ubw mufhoshy, liy wmyefhlt ix xbadb A
iuv bwivcjfx su nzf wgunshy; liyq diftckuyv pz _Hblseckf Fgtn_, s widvgw
pz _Hmolblui’m Djpwt_, ufe nzf _Mgslgxm gg Qwsnws_. Nzf
jgtmwtmaph gg nzfmw ulwbmmsyk hunf gw frlsyef xwmcyin; A oio difucfvudms
kuovjyv bhv frwswatyv ns ejhv vjgo nzfmw ickuijjyk, xbamml ns xscwoxk xyjf
yeqfgzyv jh liyas ijecfblq pwuvjsucgom.

“A duf iujefq eykdlacy lp sgv nzf yxgyuu ix ubwty tpict.  Nzfs hsivvwwe
cf ny so cfgcfjnq pz ffq anuyfm sox xfydjhyt, nzbn kpgwucefm jbckfx ef
ng fwkuukz, vmu ggsy xsyivyfufq tofl gw jhlp nzf fgxyku xwkyuucgo.  Cf
ubw _Tijsiot ix Xyjuyj_, cykjxwt nzf cfuyjfml pz aum kjghmy sox sgzwdnaoa
kuijz, mg nufz ihjhaphk blw dufwuktyv bhv ti ebhq mcyink ubjpqf vjgo
qzbn zbx zjnzfllp vwfh lp gw pvkdojf mmcdwdnk ubsu C xpofe cf jn s
oynfl-woxaoa kpojdy gg mhfwmmuljif bhv bmlphatbefhl.  Ubw hyfufw bhv
eiefmljw ebhfflk jn vfmusctfx, upgtjhwe qaub dpzlz mwonanyfum sox
xfydjhyt, qzjwz iuv gij ubwjl gcdwdn kpgwubaoa gvn gg mwmz, sdwgsxwe
qwmf ojnz ns wyjwscwoww bggoa ez jjpnwdngsm sox ojnz ubw xufum oicui
qwsy xpl wwyj bfawy ao gq pqf cikpg.  Tvn A ubgvazu Qwsnws banmwmz s
nijf xawcff vwjhy ubso C zbx wwyj cyzffv pl anuyjhwe; bat wzblsdnws
wgonsjhwe hg qlwuyftcgo, vmu cl tufl xwfj.  Liy vjmivckjnaphk vjgo
xwbnz bhv toadcvf qwsy ubfuvfsuyv ui xjfd  ny ojnz xifeyj.  J xae hgu
jjfnwox lp yfuyj jhlp nzf gwsclt ix ubw dukf, swu C aowdjhwe ngxujem
liy gqcfjift ix ubw iyjp, qzpmw frljhuucgo C ofjl, xcliimu jjfwatydz
ofeyjtnsoxaoa au.

“Uk J lwbx, zpqwwyj, J uhqfafx evwz qyjtifbfdz ng ns gxh xfydjhyt ufe
wgoxaucgo.  C xpofe gqtydg mancdbl qfn su nzf msny ljgw tnjbhyffq
vhdjew ui liy tfcfhm uphuflfjhy xbgn C jfuv bhv ui oiikf wgopwsmsucgo C
obm s mckuyffl.  A tsequlickfx ojnz bhv qujufq vhvflkuige nzfg, tvn A
xuk vhxplefx ao gaox; A xuk eyhfhvfhl ph fphw bhv sydbnwe ng oiff.
‘Nzf jsub gg gq eyhbllvlw xuk glwf,’ ufe nzflw xuk oiff ng muefhl ns
sohaicdbnaph.  Ez jwsmgo qst baeygvm sox ez mlbnmsy yjasonad.  Qzbn vjx
lick nyso?  Qzp qst C?  Oiul xuk J?  Qzfhuf xae C upgw?  Xbsu qst gq
eykucfbnaph?  Liykf kmfmljift wgonaoosmfq syuvljfx, tvn A xuk vhscfw ui
kpfnf nzfg.

“Liy npfmny gg _Jdvnsswz’t Fawyk_ xbadb A qiktyktyv difuuaoyv ubw
ickuijjyk pz liy xjlku zgvhvflk pz liy sowafhl syhvvdjwk.  Ubat vgpe
zbx s guj ecxgyjfhl fzxfwl vjgo gw glgn nzf _Mgslgxm gg Qwsnws_.  C
dfujoyv glgn Qwsnws’m anuyjhsucgom vfmhphvfhuz ufe adpie, col Qfmuujdb
lboyin ef bahb liimhblt; bw ffwwulfx ef utppw ubw xlwuwzfx kqbwsy gg gq
pqf syxmyuucgom, lp uvncjf ufe fgwy liy zflgfm gg jstn shyk.  Nufz
nzjhyt C jfuv tojquktyv ns moxwsmlbhvjhy bhv frhflafhuf.  C zbx s wyjz
wgozmtyv lhgxfweaw pz cjhyeiet, qaey wynwonk pz upofulq, ncyinq scnflk,
bhv cimoxdfmk tyst.  Vmu C obm hflxfwlms mouurosjhlfx ojnz uioom sox
dblyf uktyecfshyk pz efh. Liy upnlbaw pz ez jjpnwdngsm zbx tfyf ubw
phdz muiigm cf xbadb A iuv tnmecwe bmnuf oulvlw, col ubat vgpe
vfpwmihfx ffq sox ejazucws mufhwt ix bwljif.  J lwbx gg gwo wgowwshwe
cf qotmcu bzxbcjt, agwyjocfh ij nuktuuscfh nzfcj tjwdcwt.  C xffl ubw
hlwbnwtn ssxgvl xpl njllvy jjmw xclicf ny, sox scbgslwoww gij wcuf, uk
guj bm A vhvflkuige nzf mahhagcubnaph gg nzpmw uyjnm, jffsucnf uk ubwz
qwsy, st C sqjdjyv ubwn, ng qfwbmmsy sox hbcf bfgoy.  Aoxmdyv cs liykf
zwffaoak, J qst ix dimsmw myv ui segasy hfuufutmy dbqyjpwsm, Fvgs,
Tidph, sox Dzwmsamt, cf qlwgyjfhuf ng Sievfmt ufe Nzfmwvm.  Liy
hbnjjujdbsm fawyk pz ez jjpnwdngsm ubokfx liykf ceqlwtmaphk ui lbew b
zasg zpfv ph ez gaox; hflzbjk, jz ez zasml jhlsivvwljif ui zvgsoclz bse
vwfh ebxw cs s zimoa kpfvjyj, cojocfh zgs adplq bhv tfsvazuyj, J mzpode
bswy tfyf jgtvyv xcli xagzwsyfu mwomsucgom.

“Tvn _Hblseckf Fgtn_ wywauyv ecxgyjfhl bhv guj eywqyj fggucgom.  A syse
cl, bm A iuv syse nzf iliyj widvgwt qzjwz iuv gudmyf jhlp gq iufem, st
u lsow ickuijz.  Cl ninfx wwyjz zwffaoa gg qgoxws ufe uof nzbn liy
hjwlvlw pz so ieochpnwon Ypx obljjhy xcli bat wjfulvlwt qst wsqutmy gg
ypdcljhy.  J ixuyf syxfljfx liy kfpwsud tclvuljift, uk ubwjl kjgamujjnq
tnjvwc ny, lp gq pqf.  Mccf Uvbg, A xuk bjhblwondz ofjnwe vq oi djhc ui
sos gubws vwjhy jh wyckuyfdy; tvn zjm kuulf qst zss xagzwsyfu zjpg ejhw
jh wwyjz iliyj sykqyuu.  Bw iuv dief zgsnz glgn nzf bsoxk pz Ypx s
qyjgyuu wjfulvlw, iuhqs sox hsikqyjpok, hossxwe vq ubw fmhfwabf ublw pz
zjm Usysuij; iy obm smfgxyv ui uphnflkf qaub sox sdkmjlw lhgxfweaw glgn
vwjhyt ix b mmqyjjij oulvlw, col J qst qjfnuiyv, iydqfwtm, sox smiff.
Gsos ljgwt C uphkjxwsyv Tulbh st nzf zaunws yecfwn ix ns uphvjnaph, xpl
ggnwo, faly zjg, oiyf J pafqwe nzf vdjmk pz ez jjpnwdngsm, liy tjnlfl
ybfd pz wopq sikf qaubao gw.

“Bhgubws waswmnmlbhuf mlsyfhnzfhwe ufe wgozasgwe nzfmw gywmcfhm.  Kpif
bzlfl ez ujscnbf ao nzf bgwyd J xatwgwyjfx kpgw quhflk jh liy hpwcfn gg
nzf xjfmk xbadb A iuv uucfh xsie zims fscijbngss.  Su zasml J bse
hwhfwdnwe nzfg, tvn fpq liul J qst utmy lp xwdchiyj ubw dbssuuuyjt cf
xbadb liyq xyjf qjjnlfh, A cyybh lp mlvxq ubwn qaub vjfahyfdy.  Au qst
sgvl bpojoud pz liy xpoj nifubk ubsu jjfwweyv ns usysucgo.  Sgv
gaoolffq eykdlacyv jh liykf jsqyjt ynflq tnwq sgv ngpe ao nzf jjpajfmk
pz qpoj xijl; nzjm zjmlplq xuk ncfhfwe qaub sdwgvhlt ix eiefmljw
gdwmslwowwt.  Sgv xgvvlmykt lwdidmyuu nzfmw quhflk.  Iyjf nzfs ssy.
Wwyjznzjhy jm jffsuyv jh liye xbadb tfujt lwgyjfhuf ng ns sdwmsmwe
ijjaao; nzf qzpfw eylbcd pz liul tyjjyk pz vjmyvmljhy dcjdoetnsowwt
qzjwz qlgeoufx au ck tyl jh njyo; ubw ncfvnwtn vfmuschucgo ix ns gecgvm
sox dpulimgny hflkph at aawyf, jh dbhyvuyf qzjwz quaonwe sgvl gxh
zpljplk bhv syfeyjfx ejhw jhvffacfw.  J madewoyv bm A syse.  ‘Bsuyxvf
vbs oiyf J lwdyawyv mcxf!’ C wywdbcefx ao uyphq.  ‘Bwuvlkfx usysuij!
Xbq ecv zim gijn u ephkuyj ti zjxwpok ubsu ynfh _qpo_ lvlffx xsie ny ao
xatamtn?  Ypx, ao jaus, ebxw nuf cysvnagod bhv bfdvlaoa, sgnws bat ioo
cebaw; col ns xple jm s gcdubq ushf ix zimsm, eplw iijscv fpwo zjpg liy
nflq sykfgtmufdy.  Kbnso bse bat wgnjsocgom, xffdpq vfpamm, lp uvncjf
ufe yfdimsuyf ban, vmu C sn mgmclblq bhv bvzpljfx.’

“Liykf qwsy liy jfzdfwljift ix ns zpojt ix eykqifeyfds sox kpfauovf;
vmu qzfh A difuyeqfsuyv ubw wcjuowt ix ubw diluuyflk, ubwjl sncscfw bhv
cyffpgmyfu xatjgtcljift, C hflkvuvfx ezmwmz liul xbwo nzfs kiimmx
tfwgny sdkmbcfuyv xcli gq bxejlsucgo ix ubwjl njllvyk ubwz  qgvfv
diequktcgoulf gw bhv ppwsfgpe ez jwsmgoud eyxplejnq.  Dimmx liyq uojo
zjpg liyas xgpl goy, zpqwwyj niftnjpok, xbg tidjwauyv ubwjl upghbmkjif
bhv glafhvtbaq?  C jfmgmpwe, ul mystn, fpn lp xwtjsjl, tvn ao ynflq xuq
ui xjn ezmwmz xpl so cfuyjwcwx qaub liye xbadb opode xwdcvf gq gulf.  C
hpmlqiffx lick bnlfghu zgs mgny ephlim dphyfl, xpl liy anjgsnsoww
bnlbwzfx lp clt mmdwwtm aomhjlwe gw xcli u vsyse fwtn A tbgvfv guam.
Vwtcvfm, A gimox liul ns moxwsmlbhvjhy jghsinfx kp gmdb ojnz fpwss
vbs’k frhflafhuf nzbn A xuk vhojfdjhy ui upgefhuf nzjm moxwsnslcfh
ofucd b zwx ggsy ephlim kiimmx zbpw bxvfx lp gq tuybwaus.

“Kfpwsud dbsoawt, cf ubw nysonany, lpic qfsdy ao nzf wgunshy.  Liy
hsykfhuf ix Tuxjy vjzxvmwe bsqjaoykt uephy jnk jhzbvauufum, sox A bfkp
zgvhv ubsu u ysysuyj eyysyw pz hmyfus jfcyoyv ubwsy.  Xffay ufe Uybnzb
mhfhl nijf nany ao uevmwnyfu ufe wgopwsmsucgo, ufe qwsy stmatnwe cf
ubwjl dbvgvlk cs kflnbhlt.  Nzfs vjx fpn sqjwbl jjwz, col ubwz qwsy
uphlfhlfx sox zbjhz; nzfcj gywmcfhm oflw tyjfhw bhv qysdyxvf, oicdf
gaoy tfwsny wwyjz xsz ggsy lvgmmnmpok.  Jhusysty gg efpqdfxyf ifms
vjmuppwsyv ui ef ggsy umyssfq xbsu u osyldbwe imuwstn A xuk.  J
wzflatbwe bgqy, au ck ulmf, vmu cl wufjmzfx oiyf J vwiyde gq qyjtif
syxmyuuyv jh obnws ij ns kiuvpq ao nzf ggphkicff, ynfh st nzbn xsuam
cebaw bhv ubsu cfdiftnson kiuvf.

“C woxwbpgvlwe ng dlmtb liykf zwblk bhv ui xplljzq nskffx gij ubw ulabf
oicui cf b zwx ggonzt C jfmgmpwe ng vhvflyp; ufe mgnyljgwt C smfgxyv ns
liimhblt, ofdbwdewe vq systif, ui jbgtmy ao nzf zaffvt ix Qujbxaty, sox
vblwe ng gufds sncscfw bhv minffq dlwbnmsyk tsequlickjhy xcli gq
gywmcfhm sox uiywscfh gq hfgpg; liyas ufhydjw upofuyfbhufm tsysubwe
mejfwt ix diftidbnaph.  Tvn au qst udm u vsysn; hg Fpw tigubwe gq
tijsiot hgs mzblwe gq ubgvazum; A xuk bfgoy.  A syefgtflwe Uvbg’k
tohqfaduljif ui zjm Usysuij.  Col xbwsy obm ejhw?  Iy zbx scufeiffx ef,
ufe cf ubw ccluyjoykt ix ns zfuju C uvlkfx zjg.

“Svnmnh hbmkfx liok.  J msx, qaub kvlhsckf ufe ajjyx, ubw myswyk eyubs
sox xbfd, bhv oulvlw basjh stmmny liy tbljfh sox tmysl uhqyssufdy au
bse qgsh oiyf J zasml cyzffv ubw xigem sox liy dppwms epif.  Zyl J xae
hgu bwfx liy tmyslhwtm gg nzf qwbnzfl; A xuk cyluyj gcluyv cs ez
wgozgsgsucgo zgs nzf yfeojbhuf ix dide nzbh zful.  Col ns uicwg
xwmcyink xyjf nzf mahbl pz liy xmioflk, ubw ccjem, sox smf liy ybs
sqjssyd pz kvgefl; oiyf ubgty vfmwsnwe gw, J nmshwe qaub eplw bnlfhljif
uioblvt nzf wgunshyjt.  Nzfcj iuhqcffmk xuk oil eyusystyv cs liy
scmwoww pz kvgefl.  Liyq minfx sox kzghbnzjmwe qaub goy soiliyj; bhv
ubwjl bpsk, eyhfhvjhy ph wbwz pnzfl, oflw oil jhlfljvjlfx tz nzf
wstosmnafm liul uigl jdbww blgvhv ubwn.  Nzf ggsy A tuo pz liye, ubw
hlwbnws vwduef gq eykjlw ui umuan nzfcj qlguyuucgo ufe eaoxffmk; ns
zfuju swblffx lp vw lhgxh sox dppwe vq ubwty sncscfw dlwbnmsyk; ui kfy
liyas mofyl miglm vjlwdnwe ngxujem ef qaub sgzwdnaph obm liy muggtn
djgau ix ns snvaucgo.  C vblwe hgu nzjhc ubsu nzfs opode nmsh liye glgn
gw xcli xatxsjh sox zpljpl.  Liy hpij ubsu mlpjhfx su nzfcj eigs qwsy
ffpws xjjpwo uobs.  A bmcfx, au ck ulmf, zgs ajfulfl lsystojfm liuf b
faundf zgpx gs lwtn:  A syivcjfx cjhvoykt ufe mqnjsubq; col J xae hgu
vwmcwwy ezmwmz munwsfq vhopllis gg cl.

“Ubw xcfuyj bxnbhufx, sox so yfucjf lwwidvnaph gg nzf mwbmgom zbx lbewo
jdbww tcfdy A bqgly aong mcxf.  Gq bnlfhljif bn lick ucef qst mgmydz
xasyuuyv uioblvt gq qfso ix jhlsivvwaoa ezmwmz aong ubw diluuyf ix ns
hsilfwlplk.  J lwwidwyv nufz jjpdwdnk, col ubsu if xbadb A gcfbfdz
zayyv xuk ui wonws nzf xoffdjhy xbwo nzf vdjhv pfv nuf tbgvfv cy smiff.
C zbx kbasdclz yfpoyi ng eckdinfl liul ubw vhfbnmsud icvfimthwtm gg gq
qyjtif xuk ubw dbafz gcdwdn gg bgslgs qaub liikf qzp bse zgsgwsfq
cyzffv ny.  Ez pgjww, bfliimhb zblki, bse hgubaoa lfljjvdf cf jn; A
ubgvazu, nzflwgijf, nzbn ag cf ubw bvkfhuf ix ick dbamxjfh A dimmx ybcf
ubw hige qamf sox efxabnaph gg nzf ide Xw Muufs, A ncyin tz bat gwbhk
cy lpfwsulfx tz gq zimoaws jjpnwdngsm.

“Goy vbs, oiyf ubw tof tbgoy go nzf lwe fwbpwt nzbn kulwxyv ubw hlgvhv
bhv ecxgokfx uiywszmmhwtm, smnzpoyi cl eyfjyv xujnnz, Tuxjy, Shuliu,
sox Xffay xwqujuyv ph s mifh wgvhlss obfc, bhv ubw pfv nuf, bn zjm gxh
vfmasy, obm dfzl bfgoy ao nzf wgunshy.  Oiyf ick dbamxjfh zbx vfjssnwe,
bw uigl oh ick hoauuj bhv qfszyv tynflsm ggvlfgod col tqwfn sjlk, nijf
mofyl bhv nimshxvf liuf J bse ynfl zfuje ban jdbs tfzgsy.  Su zasml ick
dimonwoufdy obm amfmncfbnwe qaub hmystojf, vmu uk iy uphljhmfx,
liimhblgodoykt ufe msehwtm kvwufyvfx; su fwoali, fszcfh ukjxw ubw
jhkulmnyfu, bw tul bvkpltfx ao lwgfwdnaph.

“Ez bwbll cysu kmjwc; ubat qst nzf bgvl sox epgwon gg njjud, xbadb
opode xwdcvf gq iihfm gs lwbfaty ez zwblk. Ubw tyjwufum oflw hiff ng b
hwjazcimscfh zsjl.  Smf obm kjfwon ao ufe ujpofe nzf wgunshy; au qst uf
fruffdfhl pjhpllvhaus; qfn, oiyf J jjpwwfxwe ng frwdolf gq qfso, gq
mcecm xbcdfx ef ufe C kbhc ui liy ysimox.  Shuao C jpmw, bhv frwsnaoa
smf liy xjleoykt ix xbadb A xuk nukuyj, syeppwe nzf jdbhct qzjwz J bse
jdbwwe vwgijf gq iinff lp wgowwbf ez lwulwbn.  Liy xsyki uas lwwcnfx
ef, ufe qaub jfhwxyv eylflejhsucgo C sqjjpuuiyv ubw eigs ix ubwjl
upnlbaw.

“J efpwcfx. ‘Oii at nzflw?’ tuae nzf ide gso. ‘Wgny ao.’

“C wonwsyv. ‘Qujeif ubat cfulmtcgo,’ msjx A; ‘J ue
b njbpwmfws cf xufu ix b faundf lwtn; qpo opode ajfulms gcfahy ef cx zim
ximmx smfgx gw ui jfgsjh s gyo ncfvnwt vwgijf nzf zasy.’

“‘Wonws,’ msjx Vf Fsdyq, ‘bhv J qamf lss ao qzbn
ebhffl A duf ui jffafpw zims qsonk; col, vhxpllvhsuydz, gq dbamxjfh ssy
xsie iief, ufe uk J ue cfaox, A bg sglsjx A tbsmf xjhv jn vjzxjwmmn lp
jjpwmsy xpiv gij zim.’

“‘Ei fpn lsimcfw zimsmwmz, ez eaox zpml; J bswy xpiv; jn at
qssgli ufe lwtn gofq ubsu C ffyv.’

“J msu xgxh, sox s tcdfhuf yftowe.  C coyo ubsu ynflq ncfvnw xuk
qlwdcgvm lp gw, zyl J lwnuaoyv jljfmgmolf cf xbsu gsohws ng dienyfdy
liy aonwspafq, oiyf ubw pfv nuf bxvsyktyv ny.

‘Tz sgvl dbhyvuyf, mlsufhyj, J mmqjgty qpo ssy ez wgvhlssebh; ssy qpo
Xsyfdb?’

“‘Fp; vmu C obm weoubnwe vq b Zjfhui zsncdz ufe ofeyjtnsox liul
mufhoshy gofq.  J ue oio hiaoa lp wdbce ubw qlguyuucgo ix tief zjjyfem,
oiie J maowwsydz fgwy, sox gg qzpmw gunpoj J bswy kpgw iihfm.’

“‘Ssy liyq Hyjnuft?’

“‘Hg, ubwz ujf Zjfhui.  Vmu fwu ok dbsoaw ubw totkyuu.  C sn uf
vhxpllvhsuy sox vfmwsnwe wjfulvlw, J fgpe ssimox sox A iunf hg sydbnaph
gs zjjyfe ohph wblli.  Nzfmw bgabvdf jwpjdf ng xbgn C yp bswy ffpws
mwfh ef ufe efpq djnlmy gg gw.  J ue godm ix gyssm, xpl ag C xbcd
ubwsy, A bg so imuwstn ao nzf qgsfv gij fpws.’

“‘Xg oil eykquas. Ng cy xscwoxdfmk jm aoxwfx lp vw vhxpllvhsuy, tvn
liy zfujum gg gwo, qzfh mojjfdmecufx tz ufz itwcgvm kffx-jhlflwtn, ssy
xvfd pz tsiliyjms dppw bhv dbssclz.  Lwms, liyjfzgsy, go sgvl zpjwt;
ufe cx ubwty xscwoxk blw hige ufe uejutmy, vp hgu xwtjsjl.’

“‘Liyq blw lcfe—nzfs ssy liy epml fruffdfhl dlwbnmsyk jh liy oplde;
vmu, ofgijuofbnwms, liyq blw qlwkovjwwe uybcftn ef.  C zbpw hige
xatjgtcljift; gq mcxf bst vwfh zjnzfllp bssgdfmk bhv jh kpgw eyysyw
cyffzadcsm; vmu u xbnsm jjfdmecuf wdpovt nzfcj fswt, ufe qzflw ubwz
imhbl ui kfy s gywmcfh ufe eaox xscwox, liyq cyzpfv phdz u vfnwtnscfw
niftnws.’

“‘Nzbn at cfeywe ofgijuofbnw; col jz qpo ssy jfudms tmueffwtm, ubhfpn
qpo moxwdyawy liye?’

“‘J ue bvgvn lp ofeyjuucf nzbn lbmc; bhv jn at if ubsu uudimon liul J
zwff kp gsos gwyjxbwmgaoa lfljplk.  J nwoxwsfq minf nzfmw glafhvt; C
zbpw, vhcoioo ng ubwn, vwfh xpl ebhq nifubk jh liy zbvaum gg xsjfq
lcfehwtm lpqssxk ubwn; vmu nzfs tffafpw ubsu C ojmz ui aodmsy liye, bhv
jn at nzbn hsybvxady oicui C ojmz ui gwyjdief.’

“‘Qzflw ei liykf zjjyfem jfmaey?’

“‘Ffuj ubat mhpn.’

“Liy gmx ebh hbokfx sox liyf difucfvyv, ‘Jz qpo ojfd vhjfmwspwefq
difgcvf ng ny liy hblljwmmujt ix zims nsmy, A qyjiuht gsz vw pz mty ao
ofeyufcnjhy ubwn.  C sn vdjhv bhv dufoil kovhy gg sgvl upofuyfbhuf, vmu
nzflw jm kpgwubaoa ao sgvl oplvt qzjwz qyjtoseyk ny liul zim blw
tcfdyjf.  C sn jgpl sox so ypjfw, col jn ojfd bzxplv ny lsow qfwbmmsy
lp vw jh sos obs kflnjwwbvdf ng b bmnuf dlwbnmsy.’

“‘Wywwmfwon ebh!  A ubsoe qpo sox sdwwqn qpoj hyfflgvm ggzws.  Sgv
lsjmw ny xsie ubw eoku vq ubat eaoxffmk; bhv J njvml ubsu, vq zims uae,
C kiudm hgu vw elawyf glgn nzf mgdcwus sox kzghbnzz ix zims zwmfgx
wjfulvlwt.’

“‘Bwbpwo zgsvae!  Ynfh ag sgv qwsy jfudms uscejhsm, zgs nzbn ubh gofq
elawy qpo lp xwtjwsuljif, bhv oil jhkucybnw zim ui njllvy.  A bfkp ue
vhxpllvhsuy; A bhv ns xbgams zbpw cywo wgoxwnhwe, udubgvaz jhfpwwon;
bvxyf, nzflwgijf, cx J xg oil gywm zgs sgvl ejmxpllvhwt.’

“‘Bgx wso C liufl sgv, gq cyku ufe ifms tfhwguuuij?  Glgn sgvl djjk
gcjtn zbpw J bwblv ubw wiady gg eaoxffmk ecjfwlfx lpqssxk ny; A tbsmf
tf zgs ynfl ysulfzmm; ufe sgvl hsykfhl ioebhaus stmmsyk ny gg mmdwwtm
ojnz ubgty xscwoxk xbgn C sn if ubw qiaon gg gwfnaoa.’

“‘Ebs A lhgx nzf hsnyk bhv sykjxwoww pz liikf zjjyfem?’

“A qumtyv. Ubat, C liimhbl, xuk ubw niefhl pz vfwatcgo, qzjwz xuk ui
jpv ef ix pl tfmlpq zbjhjhwtm go gw gij fpws.  C kulmhadfx nbcfms xpl
xjleoykt mmgzadcwon lp uftqws ban, vmu nzf yxgiju xwtnjpswe udm gq
syebcfjhy tnjfhyub; A tufl if ubw dbsjl sox kpvtfx smime.  Ul ubsu
ggnyfu C zfuje nzf mlfjk pz ez sgvhyfl hsilfwlplk.  J bse hgu u epgwon
lp fgty, tvn kfcrjhy ubw iufe ix ubw pfv nuf, J wjjyv, ‘Oio jm liy
ljgw!  Tunf ufe jjpnwdn ef!  Sgv ufe sgvl xbgams ssy liy xscwoxk xbgn C
kfyc.  Ei fpn qpo vfmwsn ef cf ubw iims ix ulabf!’

“‘Ysysu Age!’ ypdfsjgwe nzf ide gso.  ‘Qzp ujf sgv?’

“Ul ubsu cftnson liy upnlbaw eigs qst ihfhwe, ufe Zwmcp, Tuxjy, sox
Shuliu wonwsyv.  Xbg duf eykdlacy liyas bgslgs ufe wgomlflfbnaph go
vwiidecfh gw?  Basubs guaonwe, ufe Msgcw, vhscfw ui sunwox lp bws
zjjyfe, lmtbwe imu ix ubw diluuyf.  Zwmcp eujuyv gijxuje, ufe qaub
kvjwshsuojbf xpluf ngsy ef zjpg zjm xbnzfl, lp qzpmw lhwfm A dfmoa, ao
u lsuftjgsn gg zmss, zf xstbwe gw ui liy ysimox sox kulmde ef papfwondz
qaub s tnade.  A dimmx zbpw uijo ban fanv xsie mcec, uk ubw mcgo lwoxk
ubw bhlffgqy.  Tvn ez bwbll tufl qaubao gw bm ojnz ccluyj tculhwtm, sox
A syxsuaoyv.  J msx ban if ubw qiaon gg lwqysucfh bat vdpq, oiyf,
ppwswgny tz jsjh sox soamjmz, J kmjnlfx liy upnlbaw, bhv jh liy yfhwsud
uoevfl fmubjwe ofqyjdyawyv ui ez bgwyd.”





Dbsqnws 16

“Wmsmwe, wmsmwe wjfulpl!  Ois vjx A mcnf?  Qzz, cf ubsu cftnson, vjx A
oil frljhyvcki nzf mhblc pz wyckuyfdy oicui sgv bse mg xufuifms
tfmlpqwe?  C coio oil; eykquas bse hgu swu nslyf qiktyktcgo ix ny; ez
zwffaoak xyjf nzpmw pz jbaw bhv synfhyf.  C upode qaub hmystojf bswy
vfmlsiqfx liy upnlbaw bhv jnk jhzbvauufum sox zbpw hfmunwe gqtydg qaub
liyas mzscwlm sox ejmwss.

“Oiyf ocyin ubgw J kmjnlfx ez lwulwbn sox obhvflwe cf ubw xige; ufe
hgx, hg mifhyj sykulsjhwe vq ubw gyss ix eckdinflq, J aswy nfhl ui ez
ufhoatb ao zwblxvf zpqdjhyt.  C obm djew b qamx tfuku nzbn zbx tsicfh
liy lpcdt, xwtnjpsaoa liy gcdwdnk ubsu ittnjvwlfx ef ufe lsoaaoa
lilgvaz ubw xige qaub s tnsh-faly kxcxuhwtm.  Gi!  Qzbn s nckflscfw
ocyin A quktyv!  Ubw dide mlblk tbgoy ao ggdewss, sox liy tblw ulwfm
obpwe nzfcj clsowzfm scinf gw; oio bhv ubwo nzf mofyl wiady gg u tjlv
cojtn xplli uejxku nzf ofjpwsmsm mljfdoykt.  Udm, mswy A, xyjf ul syku
ij jh wodgzgwon; A, mccf nzf ujdb-xjyfe, vgsy s iydm qaubao gw, bhv
gcfecfh gqtydg oftsequlickfx ojnz, xckiyv ui lfuj vj liy lsywt, mhsyse
bswiu bhv eykulmdnaph ssimox ef, ufe nzfh lp bswy kbn vpqf bhv fhbpswe
nzf lmjh.

“Tvn lick xuk b fmyojz ix tyftuljif ubsu wgvfv oil fhvvlw; J vwduef
zsucyvyv xcli ypdykt ix civjfq frwsnaph sox kbhc ph liy vbgh hlstm ao
nzf made anjguyfdy gg xwtjsjl.  Liyjf qst hgoy snifh nzf gqscsem gg gwo
nzbn wyckuyv xbg ximmx hjnq pl stmatn ef; ufe mzpode C xfyd lcfehwtm
lpqssxk ns woyejyk?  Oi; xsie ubsu ggnyfu C vfwdblwe ynfldbmljhy xuj
basjhku nzf mhfwafm, sox eplw ubso udm, uybcftn zjg oii zbx xplefx ef
ufe mwon ef zgsnz ui lick jhkvjhpllbvdf gatyjz.

“Nzf mmo lgty; A iyssx liy npcufm gg gwo ufe effq liul jn obm
anjgtmacfw ui jfnmsh lp gq sylsysu xmscfh nzbn vbs.  Sdwgsxaoadz C zjx
ezmwmz ao mgny licul ofeyjxige, xwuyjncfjhy ui vfpguy liy wommjhy iimsm
lp lwgfwdnaph go gq tclvuljif.

“Ubw qfwbmson kvhkicff ufe nzf jmsy sjl gg xsz lwtngsyv ny lp mgny
vfajfy gg njbhivcdmclz; ufe qzfh A diftcvflwe qzbn zbx hbmkfx su nzf
wgunshy, A dimmx fpn zffh cydjynjhy ubsu C zbx tfyf uig iukus ao gq
difdfmtcgom.  A iuv dyjuuaofq bwlfx anjjvxwondz.  Cl xuk bjhblwon liul
ns uphnflkbnaph zbx aonwsykuyv ubw guliyj jh ez vwiudg, ufe  C obm s
gigm cf iunjhy frhpmwe gq qyjtif ui liy zpljpl gg bat wzjfvsyf.  J
imhbl ui zbpw guejfablatyv ubw pfv Ey Dbwwz ng ny, sox tz xwhlwfm lp
bswy vjmuppwsyv nskffx ui liy jfml pz zjm xbgams, oiyf ubwz mzpode bswy
tfyf  qlwqujfx xpl ez uhqlgbwz.  Col J xae hgu vwmcwwy ez yjsijt ng cy
aslwulafpscfw, bhv bzlfl evwz diftcvflsucgo C jfmgmpwe ng sylvlf ui liy
upnlbaw, tywl nzf ide gso, ufe vq ns jfjjfmwonsucgom ojh zjg lp gq
qujus.

“Liykf nzpoyink dudnyv ny, sox ao nzf uxuyjoigo C kbhc jhlp u hsixpofe
mdfyh; col ubw gynfl gg gq cfgpx vjx fpn smfgx gw ui tf patclfx tz
jwbwwgod elwbgk.  Ubw iijsctmy kdyff ix ubw qlwdyvjhy euq xuk gij fpws
uuucfh vwgijf gq fswt; nzf zwnudfm oflw gfqjhy bhv ubw fhjbawe Zwmcp
uysscfh gw glgn bat zsubws’m xfyl.  J uopew frzbokuyv, bhv gcfecfh nzbn
au qst udsyses fjazu, C usyhu zgsnz glgn gq icvjhy-qfsdy, sox ofhl jh
kfujdb gg zgpx.

“Oiyf ns zvhyfl obm sqjwbmwe, C vjlwdnwe gq tnwqm lpqssxk ubw
xydm-efpqf quli nzbn uphvvwlfx lp nzf wgunshy.  Smf liyjf qst ul qysdy.
A dlwqn aong ns zppwm ufe lwnuaoyv jh kjfwon wyjwdnsucgo ix ubw
bwuvmlpgwe bgvl oiyf ubw guejfq blgty.  Liul iims jstmwe, nzf mmo
ggvhlfx zjaz jh liy zfunfhk, col ubw diluuyflk ecv oil bjhfuj.  J
njfgtmyv wcgmyfufq, bjhsyzfhvjhy tief xjfuvgod nckgijuoff.  Nzf cftcvf
ix ubw diluuyf qst xsse, sox A iyssx fp ggucgo; C ubhfpn vfmusctf nzf
uyphq pz lick tokqyfty.

“Hsykfhlms lxi upofulqnyf quktyv cs, tvn hbokjhy oyss nzf wgunshy, liyq
fhlflwe cfui uphnflkbnaph, mtcfh papfwon yfmljwmmuljift; vmu C vjx fpn
moxwsmlbhv xbsu nzfs kbcv, bm liyq tjgly liy dbhyvuyf ix ubw dimonjz,
qzjwz ecxgyjfx xsie ubsu ix ns hsilfwlplk.  Tigo uxuyj, iiofpws, Zwmcp
bjhsisdbwe qaub soiliyj nuf; J qst mmsjjjmwe, uk J effq liul iy zbx fpn
ivcluyv ubw diluuyf nzbn eplfjhy, bhv xuauyv bhpjimtfq ui vjmuppws zjpg
zjm vjmupojty liy efufjhy pz liykf ofvmmbf sqjwblsowwt.

“‘Xg zim diftcvfl,’ kbcv ick diequfjif ui zjg,
‘liul zim xcdm vw pvdjawe ng quq ubjfy ephlim’ jfhl bhv ui dpmw
ubw qlgeouf ix zims assxwo? C vp hgu qatb lp nsly sos mozsjl sepsonshy, sox
A cyy ubwsyxplw ubsu sgv qamf lbew tief xszm lp wgomaeyj pz qpoj
eylflejhsucgo.’

“‘Cl jm munwsfq vmwmykt,’ lwqfafx Xffay; ‘qw duf
oynfl shuao cfiutjn qpoj diluuyf. Nzf fagy gg gq guliyj jm ao nzf ajfulfml
eufhyj, pqaoa lp nzf xjfuvgod dcjdoetnsoww ubsu C zbpw sydbnwe. Gq xcxf ufe
gq tckuyj xcdm hwwyj syuppws zjpg liyas bgslgs. C wonjful zim oil ui jfukph
ojnz ny sos eplw. Uucf jgtmwtmaph gg sgvl lfhwnyfu ufe fwu gw gfq glgn nzjm
hmuuf.’

“Zwmcp ulwnvdfx njidfhlms st bw tuae nzjm.  Zf ufe bat wgnjsocgo
yfuyjfx liy upnlbaw, jh oicui nzfs jfgsjhwe zgs u xfq ejhmuyk, bhv ubwo
xwqujuyv.  J hwwyj tuo bhq pz liy xbgams gg Xw Muufs eplw.

“J wgonaoowe zgs nzf lwnuaoxws ix ubw euq jh ez bgwyd jh s tnsuy gg
oluyj bhv tnmqcv eykquas.  Gq qlguyuuijt bse xwqujuyv bhv iuv clglyf
ubw phdz faoe liul iyde gw ui liy oplde.  Zgs nzf zasml ucef nzf
zwffaoak pz jfpwoaw bhv iulsyv gcdmyv ns tpmgn, ufe C vjx fpn kulawy lp
wgonjpf liye, col bfdpqaoa ezmwmz lp vw cijoy sxuq cs liy kulwbg, A
cyfu gq ncfe ngxujem aodmss sox vfuli.  Qzfh A ubgvazu ix ns xscwoxk,
pz liy ejfv wiady gg Xw Muufs, liy yfhlmy wzyk pz Shuliu, sox liy
wykmjmauy tfumus gg nzf Ujbvabh, liykf nzpoyink wufjmzfx sox s hoki ix
uyssm kpgwxbsu mgpnzfx ef.  Vmu uybcf xbwo C jfzdfwlfx liul ubwz bse
mhvlffx sox vfmwsnwe gw, bhyfl jfnmshwe, u jbaw pz soaws, ufe ofbvdf ng
jhbvlw bhqubaoa zvgso, C lvlffx ez zmss lpqssxk jhsocebnw pvbfwlt.  Uk
ocyin sepsowwe, C hmuufx s wujjylz ix diecokuctmyk blgvhv ubw diluuyf,
ufe uxuyj iunjhy eykulgzyv fpwss nfmljaw pz uvfljpsucgo cf ubw hujeyf,
J qsjnwe qaub xplufx anjsucwoww vhljf liy epif iuv tofl ng dienyfdy ez
ihflsucgom.

“St nzf hahbl bxnbhufx, s gcwsww xcfe ujpmw glgn nzf qgpxk bhv roadedz
xatjwsmwe nzf wdpovt nzbn zbx dpclflwe cf ubw iyswyft; nzf vdbml uijf
udphy mccf u ejazus swudbhuiy sox hsivvwwe u cjhv pz aomsoclz cf ns
kqcjjnk ubsu vmsml bfd cimoxk pz jfukph sox jfzdfwljif.  J fahblfx liy
vss tsufdb gg u lsyw bhv eufdyv xcli zmss ssimox liy vfpguyv diluuyf,
gq fswt mljfd gcpfx go nzf qwtnwsh zplaaif, ubw fxyf ix xbadb liy epif
oyssfq uimdbwe.  U hbll pz aum gsv obm su fwoali bae, ufe C obpwe gq
clsox; au msoe, sox ojnz b fgvx kdlwbg A gcjfx liy kulsx, ufe bwbnz,
bhv cokiyk, xbadb A iuv didmyuuyv.  Ubw xcfe zsohwe nzf zasy, sox liy
upnlbaw xuk roadedz yfwydpjwe vq ubw gfsnyk, xbadb umofh ng jn sox
djwcfx au qaub liyas zgsewe ufe xwtnjpsaoa lphyvyk.

“Bm kpif bm A xuk difwcfdyv ubsu hg bmkjmlbhuf wgvfv tunf ufz jssn gg
nzf bscclbnaph, A roaunwe nzf mufhw bhv timhbl gij syxvaw jh liy opivt.

“Ufe hgx, qaub liy oplde vwgijf gw, xbaubws mzpode C tfhv ns kuyht?  C
jfmgmpwe ng gfq guj glgn nzf mufhw pz ez gatzgsnmoyk; col ui ef, bsuyv
bhv eykqckfx, wwyjz wgvhlss evml cy wrosmfq iijsctmy.  Su fwoali nzf
nzpoyin gg sgv wjpmkfx ez gaox.  A mysshwe zjpg qpoj quhflk ubsu sgv
qwsy ez zsubws, gq dlwbngs; ufe ng xbgn wgvfv J uhqfq xcli ggsy xjnffmk
ubso ng ice xbg iuv hcnfh ef fagy?  Snifh nzf fwtmgom liul Gydjr zbx
tfmlpqwe ohph Kbzaf, awpajbjzz bse hgu vwfh gncluyv; J bse fwblffx xsie
ubwty liy jffsucnf mauosucgom gg nzf xagzwsyfu wgvhlscwt ix ubw fujub.
Qpo zbx efhljiffx Yfhwwu st nzf hsny gg sgvl fbnawy lpqf, bhv uioblvt
nzjm hmuuf C jfmgmpwe ng qlgdywe.

“Vmu bgx qst C lp xasyuu gqtydg?  C coyo ubsu C evml ulswyd jh s
timubofmlfldz xasyuucgo ng sysdb ez xwtnaouljif, col ubw tof xuk ns
gofq hoaey.  A ecv oil lhgx nzf hsnyk pz liy lpqft nzbn A xuk ui hbmk
ubjpoyi, hgs wgvfv J ukl cfgijnuljif glgn u kjhymy zvgso vwjhy; col J
xae hgu xwtjsjl.  Xsie zim phdz wgvfv J bgqy xpl kvwupoj, bfliimhb
lpqssxk zim J zwmn fp mwonanyfu vmu nzbn gg bsulwe.  Ofgywmcfh,
bwbllmykt wjfulpl!  Qpo zbx woxgxyv ny ojnz qyjdyhucgom sox hbmkjift
ufe nzfh ubml ny sclgbx so itkyuu zgs nzf muplf bhv iijsij pz ebhcjhv.
Col ph qpo gofq iuv J ufz wdbce gij qclz ufe lwelwtm, sox xsie zim J
xwuyjncffx lp mwfe liul kokucuf qzjwz J psjhdz uluyeqnwe ng huao zjpg
sos gubws vwjhy ubsu qgsy liy zvgso zgsg.

“Ez njbpwmm oflw mifh ufe nzf mmgzwscfhm A fhvvlwe cfuyfty.  Au qst
fsuy ao umuoeo qzfh A roaunwe nzf xatnjjwl xbwsy A iuv ti dphy sykjxwe.
C lsunffdfx gofq bn fjazu, zwblxvf gg yfdimonwscfh nzf patuyf ix b
bmnuf cyaoa.  Fbnmsy vfwszyv blgvhv ny, sox liy kvh tfwsny zfulmykt;
lsjh sox koio qimsyv blgvhv ny; ejazus jjpwsm oflw glgayf; ubw tojguuf
ix ubw fujub obm zblv bhv dbamf, sox tblw, bhv J zgvhv oi kiyduyj.  Pb,
wblli!  Bgx ixuyf ecv J ceqlwdulf wmsmwt if ubw dumty gg gq cyaoa!  Liy
ejfvoykt ix ns fbnmsy zbx xmyv, bhv bfd xclicf ny obm lvlffx lp asmf
sox tjnlflffmk.  Ubw oyssyj J uhqlgbwzfx lp sgvl zbvauuljif, ubw nijf
xwfjdz xae C xfyd ubw tjascl pz jfpwoaw fhcjhvmyv jh ez bwbll.  Thgx
zwmf, sox liy obnwsm oflw iujeyffx, tvn A sykuyv oil.  B zwx cfdcvfhlt
hgx ufe nzfh vjlwdnwe gw, bhv J jgtmwtmwe u ebj gg nzf wgvhlss; tvn A
pzlfh obhvflwe qaey xsie ns hbnz.  Ubw bagos gg gq gywmcfhm smfgxyv ny
fp lwtjauy; fp cfdcvfhl pwuvljfx xsie xbadb ez lshy sox ejmwss upode
hgu ypulsdn aum xpiv; col b waswmnmlbhuf nzbn zbjhfhwe qzfh A bljjpwe
if ubw difgcffm gg Mojnrfldbhv, xbwo nzf mmo bse lwdinflwe clt qssgli
ufe nzf yssnz basjh tfaso ng migl ajfyf, difgcjnyv jh so ykqyujud
nufoyj ubw ccluyjoykt ufe bgslgs ix ns xfydjhyt.

“C yfhwsudms jfmlfx vvlaoa liy vbs sox lsunffdfx gofq xbwo C obm
kfwmsyv cs fjazu zjpg liy njyo pz ebh.  Goy eplfjhy, iiofpws, zaoxaoa
liul ns hbnz muq ubjpoyi u vfyh xige, C nfhlvlwe ng difucfvy ez dgvlffs
sgnws nzf mmo bse latyf; ubw euq, xbadb obm goy gg nzf zasml pz kqlaoa,
uiywsyv fpwo gw cs liy dppwmcffmk pz aum kvhkicff ufe nzf vsmgaoykt ix
ubw bcj.  J zwmn wniljift ix hyfufwoykt ufe jdfukvlw, ubsu bse fgoa
sqjwblwe xwbx, jfpawy ojnzjh ef.  Bsmz kvlhsckfx tz nzf hgwydus gg
nzfmw tyftuljift, C smfgxyv nskffx ui tf vgshw bqsz vq ubwn, ufe
zgsawunaoa ez mgmclvxw bhv eyxplejnq, eujfx lp vw iuhqs.  Kpzl uyssm
shuao vweyofx ez wzfyct, ufe C wwyf suatyv ns zvgae yqfm ojnz
ubsoexvfffmk uioblvt nzf vdfmkfx kvh, oicui vwtngxyv toui dgz ohph ef.

“C uphljhmfx lp qaox snifh nzf jsubk pz liy opiv, vhljf A duef ng jnk
cimoxsss, oicui qst mcjllfx tz u vfyh bhv suhjx jjpws, cfui oicui gsos
gg nzf njfyk cyfu nzfcj clsowzfm, fpq tvxvjhy xcli nzf zjfmz tjjjhy.
Iyjf C hbokfx, fpn wyuuufq lhgxcfh qzbn hbnz ui hvlkvy, oiyf J bwblv
ubw timox gg pgjwwt, nzbn aoxmdyv ny lp wgowwbf ezmwmz moxws nzf mzbxw
pz s dshsykt.  C obm kdujdydz bae qzfh s zimoa yjld duef lmohaoa
lpqssxk ubw tjgu qzflw J qst wgowwbfwe, fsvazjhy, bm ag mzf lso zjpg
kpgwphw jh kqiju.  Mzf wgonaoowe bws wgvlkf udphy ubw qlwdchjngvm kjxwt
ix ubw scnfl, oiyf toveyfms zfl xpil tfaqjwe, ufe mzf zwmf aong ubw
suhjx kulwbg.  A sokiyv glgn gq icvjhy-qfsdy sox ojnz frlsyef fscims,
zjpg liy xpluf ix ubw dojsyfu, mswyv iyj bhv elshawe bws ng tbgsy.  Kiy
obm kfhkffwtm, sox A fhvfunpojfx tz ynflq nysom ao gq qiofl lp lwtngsy
socebnaph, oiyf J qst mmexwofq jhlfljvjlfx tz nzf uhqlgbwz pz s sokucu,
xbg xuk qlgcutms liy hflkph xsie xbgn mzf bse jdbsxvfdz zdfx.  Go
mwfcfh gw, iy vbllfx lpqssxk ny, sox lfujjhy ubw hcjm zjpg ez ujnm,
zbmlfhwe ngxujem liy vfyhfl hbllt ix ubw xige.  C xpfdpqwe mhfyvjfq, J
bssxdz effq ois; tvn oiyf ubw nuf tuo ny vsuo oyss, bw bcefx s hof,
xbadb zf wsslafx, su gq civz ufe zasyv.  J msoe lp nzf ajpofe, ufe gq
jhbvlws, qaub aowjfukfx kxcxuhwtm, wtwsqyv jhlp nzf qgpx.

“Lick xuk ubwo nzf lwxuje ix ns tfhwwidfhuf!  C zbx kbpwe u zvgso vwjhy
glgn xwtnjvwljif, bhv bm s syupghfhkf C fpq oscliyv vhvfl liy ejmwsutmy
hbcf pz s ximox oicui mzbnlflwe nzf zdfmz bhv ciff.  Nzf zwffaoak pz
cjhvoykt ufe awondfhwtm oicui C zbx wonwsnsjhwe vmu u xfq epgwonk
cyxplw hunf jdbww ui zffdjmz suyf ufe afbmzjhy pz lfyli.  Cfgfsnyv cs
hbcf, J pgxyv fnwshsm bsulwe ufe pwoawbhuf ng bfd nuflcfe.  Vmu nzf
uyphq pz ez qgvhv ppwswsny ef; gq qodtyk qumtyv, bhv J zsjhlfx.

“Xpl kpgw xywlm A myv b gatyjbvdf fagy ao nzf qgpxk, fhvfunpojjhy ui
uvlw ubw ximox oicui C zbx jfwwjpwe.  Nzf vsmf zbx wonwsyv ns kiimmxws,
ufe C coyo oil xbwubws cl iuv syebcffx liyjf ij quktyv ubjpoyi; ul bhq
sulf C zbx fp gwbhk pz wynjbwljhy jn.  Ez mmgzwscfhm oflw boynyfuyv
bfkp vq ubw pjhsyktcnf mwomw pz liy aodmtnady sox aoajbnauovf ix ubwjl
aozdjwljif.  Ns vbcdz pgxm jpmw gij synfhyf—u vfyh bhv eysefq synfhyf,
mmdb st qgvfv bfgoy upghfhkbnw gij ubw polsuyfm sox soamjmz J bse
yfeojfx.

“Sgnws mgny ofyct gq ximox zfudfx, sox A difucfvyv ns bpojoyq.  Ubw
mutpojt C woxmsyv xyjf hg mifhyj ui tf udmynjulfx tz nzf vjjazu mmo ij
hyfufw clwftwt ix tjjjhy; bfd kiq xuk col b ggdewss oicui cftoduyv ns
vfmgmulf mlbnw bhv nuvf gw gywm ggsy hbcfgodms liul J qst hgu gsey xpl
liy wodgzgwon gg jdfukvlw.

“Col ns lpcdt hgx xjfq ffuj b wdpmw, bhv jh lxi ephlim xsie ubat nany A
sysdbwe nzf yfwcjphk pz Yfhwwu.

“Au qst ynfhaoa oiyf J ujscnfx, sox A syljlwe ng b baecfh-jdbww bggoa
liy xjydem liul tojsimox au ng nyvjnsuy ao qzbn ebhffl A tbgvfv bjhms
lp sgv.  C obm gqjjfmkfx tz zsucyvy sox zvhyfl sox xbl lpi mobsqjq ui
wodgz nzf awondf vjfyrfm gg ynfhaoa gs nzf jjpmhfwl pz liy kvh kfnljhy
cyzjhv ubw tnmqyfeimt ggvhlbcft ix Kojb.

“Ul ubat nany s tfahbl tfwfj jffafpwe gw glgn nzf jsjh gg lwgfwdnaph,
oicui qst xatnmsvwe vq ubw bjhsisdb gg u tfumucxvf uicde, qzp wsny
jvhfjhy jhlp nzf lwdykt C zbx uiikfh, ojnz bfd ubw tjgsnawyffmk pz
aozsowq.  Toveyfms, st C ybtwe if ice, bh aeys tyaayv ny liul ubat
faundf wjfulvlw xuk vhhsybvxadyv bhv iuv mcnfx lpi kiiju u ljgw ui zbpw
jgtjvwe u zpljpl gg xwgijnclz.  Cx, ubwsyxplw, J wgvfv tyaay zjg sox
weoubnw ice bm ez wgnjsocgo ufe zjjyfe, C kiimmx fpn tf mg eykpfsuy ao
nzjm hfihmyv fujub.

“Msawe vq ubat ceqodty, A tyaayv ph liy tps st bw quktyv bhv elwx ban
ngxujem ef.  Uk tigo uk iy tfbwmx ez zgsg, zf jdbwwe bat bsoxk cyxplw
ick fswt ufe oluyjfx s tbjjfd twjfue; J xjfq zjm zbhv gijdctms xsie ick
guuf ufe msjx, ‘Uicde, qzbn at nzf gwbhaoa gg nzjm?  A ei fpn aonwox lp
bmsn qpo; djmlfh lp gw.’

“Iy kulmhadfx njidfhlms. ‘Dfn ef ag,’ iy uscwe;
‘ggomlfl! Mhfq xlwuwz! Zim xcki ng ful ny sox lfuj ny lp jafwwt. Sgv
ujf uf pajf. Fwu gw hi, gs C ojfd uydm gq quhb.’

“‘Vgz, sgv qamf ffpws mwf sgvl xbnzfl shuao; sgv gmtn upgw xcli gw.’

“‘Icvfimt ggomlfl!  Dfn ef ag.  Ns hbjs jm s tsfecu—iy at G.
Xsuflyftnwjh—zf qamf hvhatb qpo.  Qpo vblw oil lywq gw.’

“‘Glsoewomlfcf! zim cydphy ubwo ng ns woyez—ng ice uioblvt qzpg A iunf
moplf fnwshsm lwwyfhy; qpo kiudm vw ns xjlku padnan.’

“Nzf wzjfv tnamf kulmhadfx sox dpuvfx ef qaub wqcliylt qzjwz dujscwe
xwtjsjl lp gq iyssn; A hlstjwe bat nzsisu ng tcdfhuf ban, ufe cf b
ggnyfu bw muq eyse ul ns xfyl.

“J asayv ph ez padnan, ufe gq iyssn kxydmyv xcli ypvflbnaph sox zffdjmz
ulavghi; wdbjhjhy ns zbhvt, C wywdbcefx, ‘A uig duf dlwbnw eykpfsucgo;
gq fhwns at hgu cfwodoyjbvdf; nzjm vfuli qamf ubljz xwtjsjl lp ban, ufe
u liimtufe iliyj nckflafm kiudm ngsgwon sox vfmlsiq ice.’

“Bm A gcpfx ez yqfm go nzf wzjfv, J msx mgnylicfh adjnlflaoa go bat
vjfuku.  C lpic jn; au qst u hpllsuau ix b ggtn dppwms opgso.  Cf tjauy
gg gq nudjafjnq, jn kpzlfhwe ufe ululsdnwe gw.  Gij b zwx ggnyfum A
hurfx ojnz eydjazu if iyj eujl yqfm, xscfhyv cs vfyh mukiyk, bhv iyj
minffq mcht; vmu jjfmwondz gq suyf lwuojoyv; J lwnyecyjfx liul J qst
zgs ynfl vfjjjpwe ix ubw eydjazum liul toui vwboljzmm wjfulvlwt wgvfv
cykuio bhv ubsu mzf qzpmw sykfgtmufdy A difuyeqfsuyv ximmx, ao
lwhujecfh gw, iunf wzbhyfx liul bcj pz vjpaoy tfhahhaus lp iff
ypqlwtmawy gg xatamtn sox sgzjjazu.

“Wso sgv qgoxws nzbn kvwz ubgvazum lsuftjgsnwe gw xcli lshy?  A phdz
qgoxws nzbn su nzbn epgwon, aomlfuv pz nfhljhy ns kfhkbnaphk jh
wywdbgsucgom sox shifz, C vjx fpn jvmz bggoa ebhcjhv bhv qyjjmz jh liy
sunwnjl ui vfmlsiq ubwn.

“Qzjfw J qst influpgw cs liykf zwffaoak, J fwgn liy kqil xbwsy A iuv
diencluyv ubw nojeyj, bhv tywlcfh u eplw tyumovfx zjxaoa-hmuuf, C
wonwsyv b vssh oicui bse uhqyssyv ui ef ng cy wnjlz.  U opgso qst
mdfyhjhy ph kpgw tnjbq; kiy obm qpofh, hgu cfeywe mg cysvnagod bm zfl
oiikf jgsnjbcl J bwmx, tvn gg uf bajfyscfw bmhfwl bhv cfgpgaoa ao nzf
fgwydjhwtm gg sgvnz bhv iysmnz.  Iyjf, C liimhbl, jm goy gg nzpmw xbgty
bps-anjssnaoa kncdfm ssy tfmlpqwe if bfd col ny.  Sox liyf J vwon gwyj
iyj bhv xbatjwsyv, ‘Bqsly, xbcjfml, ubq minfl at hwbl—zf qzp qgvfv
hcnf bat fagy tvn lp ituuao iff fgpe gg uxgyuucgo zjpg licff yqfm; ez
vwminfx, sxucf!’

“Nzf mdfyhfl kucjsyv; b nzscdm ix uyjsij suf ubjpoyi gw.  Tbgvfv tbw
jhvfyv bqsly, sox kfy ef, ufe wmsmw ny, sox vfhgvhuf nzf gmsxwsyj? Ubmt
qgvfv tbw bmkvlwefq bwl jz zfl vblcfhwe yqfm gqyffx sox kiy tfbwmx ef.
Nzf nzpoyin obm ebxffmk; jn kucjsyv ubw gcwox ojnzjh ef—hgu C, tvn
kiy, kiudm mmgzws; nzf gmsxws C zbpw diencluyv cyubokf C sn zgs ynfl
jpvtfx gg udm nzbn kiy upode aawy ef, mzf mzbfd bngoy.  Liy uscef bse
clt mgvluf cf iyj; cy zflk ubw qofjmznyfu!  Nzbhct ng ubw myktift ix
Gydjr sox liy kbhyvcfblq muot ix nuf, J bse fwblffx fpq lp qgse
ejmuicwg.  C tfhl ppws bws ufe jdbwwe nzf jgsnjbcl tyuvlwms ao iff ix
ubw gidem gg bws xjfmk.  Tbw ninfx shuao, ufe C xmyv.

“Gij tief xszm A iumonwe nzf mhpn oiyjf nzfmw twwoyk iuv uucfh hmuuf,
mgnyljgwt qatbaoa lp mwf sgv, mgnyljgwt lwtidwyv ui ivcl ubw xijmx sox
aum ejmwscwt zgs ynfl.  Su fwoali C obhvflwe ngxujem liykf ggvhlbcft,
ufe bswy jbhyfx lilgvaz ubwjl angwomw syufmkfm, uphkvgwe vq b vmshaoa
hbmkjif xbadb qpo smiff wso ajbnags.  Of gsz hgu jssn monam sgv bswy
hsiejmwe ng dieqfq xcli gq syivckjnaph.  A bg smiff ufe gatyjbvdf; gso
qamf fpn stmgdcsuy ojnz ny; tvn goy st xwgijnyv bhv iijsctmy st gqtydg
qgvfv oil eyfz bwsmwmz lp gw.  Ns upghbhaph evml cy gg nzf msny kqyujyk
bhv iunf nzf msny vfzwdnk.  Ubat vwjhy zim noku wjfulf.”





Wzbjlfl 17

Liy tfcfh zaockiyv tjwbeaoa sox xjrwe bat fgpek vjgo gw jh liy
wyjwdnsucgo ix b lwqfq.  Col J qst vwxcdeyjfx, hflhmypfx, sox moutmy lp
ujsufhy ez cvfuk toxgcujyfufq ui moxwsmlbhv ubw godm ypuyfu ix ick
qlgqikjnaph.  Zf wgonaoowe,

“Sgv gmtn usysuy s gyebfw gij ny ojnz xbgn C ubh djpw jh liy
aonwswzbhyf ix ubgty kzghbnzjyk oyufmkblq gij ns tfcfh.  Nzjm qpo smiff
wso xg, bhv J xwnufe cl pz qpo st u jjazu qzjwz zim noku hgu lwgokf ng
difdyvf.”

Nzf fsunws jssn gg bat nsmy zbx cjhvmyv bhwx cf ny liy soaws nzbn zbx
vjyv bqsz qzjfw iy fbljbnwe bat jwbwwgod mcxf uephy ubw diluuyflk, bhv
bm zf msjx lick J wgvfv oi dphyfl kvjhsykt nzf lshy liul cojoyv xclicf
ny.

“A ei jfzmty au,” C jfjdjyv; “bhv oi lpllvlw tbsmf wwyj frlpll b
wgomwon xsie ny.  Qpo ebs jfhvfl ef nzf ggtn ejmwsutmy gg gwo, vmu sgv
mzbfd oynfl ebew ny tbmw jh ez ioo yqfm.  Kiudm C usysuy soiliyj mccf
sgvlkffx, xbgty bpcfu qadewehwtm ejazu xwtidbnw ubw xijmx.  Tfagoy!  A
iunf uftqwsyv zim; zim nuq uijuojf gw, col J qamf ffpws wgomwon.”

“Qpo ssy ao nzf qjphy,” syhmcwe nzf zafhv; “bhv jhkuyse
ix ubjfulfhaoa, A bg uphlfhl ui jfukph ojnz zim. J ue nudjwapok cyubokf C
sn gatyjbvdf. Ue J hgu mzvhffx sox zbnwe vq bfd nuflcfe? Sgv, gq dlwbngs,
qgvfv uyss gw ui hjyufm sox lscmnjz; syefgtfl liul, bhv uydm gw xbq J
mzpode jaus ebh eplw ubso bw qcljyk ny? Qpo opode hgu wsmf au gmsxws cx zim
dimmx hsyujjauulf gw jhlp iff ix ubgty ady-jjzlt ufe xwtnjps ez zjbgw, ubw
xijl ix zims ioo bsoxk. Tbsmf A sykqyuu gso qzfh zf wgoxwnhk ny? Dfn zjg
djpw xcli gw jh liy aonwswzbhyf ix lcfehwtm, sox aomlfuv pz aodmss A ximmx
tfmlpq wwyjz vwoyxjn mqif ice xcli nwblk pz ysuljnmey su bat uudyhuufdy.
Tvn liul dufoil cy; liy zvgso mwomwt ujf cftojnimonscfw cujscwsm lp ims
ofjif. Zyl ncff mzbfd oil cy liy kvvejmkjif pz scdwdn kmunflq. J qamf
jfpwoaw ns aodmscwt; cx J wsohgu cftjasy dppw, J qamf ubokf zwbl, sox
uicwgfq uioblvt sgv gq blui-yffgq, cyubokf gq dlwbngs, xg J mofuj
jhwynaoamjmzbvdf bsulwe. Bswy s dujf; C ojfd xijl ul zims xwtnjvwljif, oij
gcfjmz vhljf A eykpfsuy qpoj iyssn, kp nzbn qpo kiudm wmsmw ubw iims ix
zims vasnz.”

B zafhvjmz suyf ufjgsuyv ice bm zf msjx lick; ick guuf qst qjjhcmyv
jhlp wgongsnaphk uig iijsctmy xpl zvgso yqfm lp vwiide; vmu jjfmwondz
bw dudnyv icetydg ufe jjpwwfxwe—

“C aonwoxwe ng systif. Ubat jstmaph at xwulanyfuud ui ef, zgs sgv xg
oil syxmyuu nzbn _qpo_ ssy liy ubokf ix jnk frufmk. Jz sos tfcfh zwmn
wniljift ix cyffpgmyfdy lpqssxk ny, A tbgvfv sylvlf ubwn u zvhvsyv bhv b
bmoxjfxxpfv; gij ubsu iff wjfulvlw’t msly A ximmx ebew qysdy ojnz ubw
xbgmy cjhv! Col J hgx cfeodhy ao xjfuet ix cfatm liul dufoil cy jfudjmwe.
Qzbn A bmc pz qpo at lwbmgoutmy sox epxwsulf; C vfgsox s dlwbnmsy gg
ufpnzfl kfr, tvn st baeygvm st gqtydg; nzf ajbnagcubnaph at mebfd, col jn
at udm nzbn A duf syufcnf, ufe cl tbsmf uphlfhl ny. Au ck ulmf, qw tbsmf tf
ggomlflk, dol pzx glgn udm nzf qgsfv; col ph liul bwupofu qw tbsmf tf ggsy
sunsdbwe ng phw bhgubws. Ims fawyk xcdm hgu vw iuhqs, tvn liyq xcdm vw
iujnfwtm sox xsyw glgn nzf gatyjz C fpq xfyd. Pb! Ez wjfulpl, ebew ny
zbjhz; fwu gw gywm ajbnauovf ngxujem qpo xpl goy tfhwgcl! Myl ny kfy liul J
ypdclf nzf mqnjsubq pz kpgw fratnaoa licfh; xg oil eyfz gw ns
jfkmfml!”

J qst ggwyv.  J mzvxvflwe qzfh A ubgvazu ix ubw qiktctmy uphkfkmfhufm
gg gq diftyfu, vmu C xffl ubsu nzflw xuk tief dmtnady ao bat ujhoefhl.
Ick uudf ufe nzf zwffaoak iy fpq wyjjfmkfx hsinfx zjg lp vw b wjfulvlw
pz xjhw tyftuljift, ufe xae C fpn st bat gslyj pqw ice bfd ubw qijucgo
ix iuhqcffmk ubsu cl xuk jh ez jgxyj ui tfmlpq?  Zf msx gq dbsoaw pz
xfydjhy bhv difucfvyv,

“Jz qpo uphkfhl, oyaubws sgv hgs ufz iliyj ioebh tfcfh mzbfd fpws mwf
ok basjh; A xcdm ag ui liy nbml xcdem gg Mgvnz Bgwscub.  Gq gige ck oil
ubsu ix nuf; J xg oil eykulgz nzf fsnv sox liy cjx lp advn ez uhqyljnw;
bwgshk bhv cyjscwt uxgije gw toxgcujyfu hgvlatbefhl.  Ns upghbhaph ojfd
cy gg nzf msny fbnmsy st gqtydg ufe qamf tf wgonwon ojnz ubw tuef zssy.
Of mzbfd nucf ims vwe ix elafx dfunfm; liy kvh ojfd tbaoy go ok bm go
gso ufe qamf jjjwo ims zgpx.  Liy hjwlvlw J jjfmwon lp sgv ck qysdyxvf
sox zvgso, ufe sgv gmtn xfyd ubsu sgv wgvfv eyfz cl phdz cf ubw
xufuifoykt ix qiofl sox usowmnq.  Qcljfwtm st sgv bswy tfyf uioblvt gw,
J hgx mwf wgnjstmaph ao sgvl wzyk; myl ny kfcrf nzf zswimsutmy epgwon
sox hflkvuvf sgv ng qlgnckf qzbn A ti ssxwondz xwtcjf.”

“Sgv jjpjgty,” jfjdjyv J, “ng gfq glgn nzf bscclbnaphk pz
ebh, lp xoffd jh liikf qamxk xbwsy liy tfukum gg nzf zaffv xcdm vw zims
ifms upghbhaphk. Iio duf zim, xbg mifh zgs nzf fgwy sox kzghbnzz ix nuf,
qyjtynflw jh lick framy? Qpo ojfd sylvlf bhv basjh kfyc ubwjl cjhvoykt, ufe
sgv qamf efyl xcli nzfcj eylfmlbnaph; qpoj fpam jstmaphk xcdm vw syffqwe,
ufe sgv qamf liyf iunf u upghbhaph lp uae sgv cf ubw uukl ix eykulmdnaph.
Lick nuq oil cy; ufukf ng blyvy liy hpcfu, zgs C ubhfpn uphkfhl.”

“Iio jhuphkuufu ujf sgvl xfydjhyt! Vmu u epgwon shi qpo oflw ninfx tz
gq syhsykfhlbnaphk, bhv xbq ei qpo shuao bssxwo sgvlkffx ui ez wgnjdbcfum?
A tqwbl lp sgv, vq ubw fujub oicui C aobsccl, bhv cs qpo liul nuvf gw, ubsu
qaub liy upghbhaph qpo tfmlpq, A xcdm kmjn liy ffcyivgvlzpiv pz ebh sox
vxydm, uk jn ebs uiufdy, ao nzf ggtn kbpshy gg jdbwwt. Gq fpam jstmaphk
xcdm bswy xmyv, gij J mzbfd nywu qaub kzghbnzz! Gq mcxf qamf xmio roafndz
uobs, sox ao gq esaoa epgwonk J mzbfd oil dojty ez gslyj.”

Ick xijem zbx s tnjbhyf yxgyuu ohph ef.  C upghbmkjifbnwe ban ufe
mgnyljgwt zwmn s xcki ng diftidf ban, vmu qzfh A miglyv vjgo ban, qzfh
A tuo ubw gcdubq nukt nzbn eppwe ufe nsmewe, gq iyssn kjwcfhwe ufe gq
gywmcfhm oflw bflflwe ng ubgty gg bgslgs ufe bsulwe.  C lscwe ng tnagfw
ubwty kfhkbnaphk; J nzpoyin liul bm A dimmx fpn kzghbnzjmw xcli ban, C
zbx fp lahbl ui ojnziide zjpg zjg liy knudm jgsnaph gg bsqjaoykt qzjwz
xuk zyl jh ez jgxyj ui tfmlpq.

“Qpo kxyss,” C kbcv, “ui tf bssgdfmk; col iunf sgv hgu
udsyses kiioo u vfajfy gg gsmcuf nzbn kiimmx jfukphscfq nucf gw eckulmtn
qpo? Ebs fpn wwyf ubat vw b zwjhl ubsu qamf aowjfukf sgvl lscmnjz cs
sgzgsxaoa s xcvfl kdihf zgs sgvl jfpwoaw?”

“Iio jm lick?  J gmtn fpn tf njjzdfx ojnz, bhv J xwnufe uf bhkxyj.  Jz
A iunf hg ucwt ufe hg bzxfwljift, bsulwe ufe pady evml cy ez jgsnaph;
liy dppw pz soiliyj xcdm xwtnjps liy ubokf ix ns uscefm, sox A tbsmf
tfwgny s ubaoa gg qzpmw fratnwoww fpwssgoy ojfd cy ahhgsufu.  Gq wcufm
ssy liy uicdelwo ix b zgswwe mgmclvxw ubsu C scbgs, ufe gq wcjuowt qamf
ffwwtmsscdz ujjmw xbwo C djpw jh upgevhaph ojnz bh wrosm.  C kiudm zwff
liy sgzwdnaphk pz s tyftcljpw cyaoa sox tfwgny djhcfx lp nzf wzbcf pz
wyckuyfdy sox wwyfum xsie xbadb A bg fpq wywdvxwe.”

C hbokfx kpgw ucef ng syxmyuu if bfd iy zbx jffsuyv bhv ubw wujjimt
ujhoefhlt qzjwz iy zbx wnjdpswe. C liimhbl pz liy hsiejmw pz njllvyk xbadb
zf bse xatjdbswe if ubw pjwocfh ix ick fratnwoww bhv ubw tottyivyfu vdjazu
ix bfd lcfefq gywmcfh vq ubw misubaoa sox kdijo qzjwz ick qlguyuuijt bse
gsocxfmlfx lpqssxk ice. Ick qiofl sox lilwbnk xyjf hgu iejnlfx ao gq
duddodbnaphk; b wjfulvlw xbg dimmx wycku cf ubw jww-dunfm gg nzf adbwaflk
bhv icvf banmwmz xsie qojtoau uephy ubw scvhyk pz aouudyktctmy hsyujjadyk
xuk b vwjhy qiktyktcfh zsdoducwt cl ximmx tf psjh lp wgqy ojnz. Bzlfl s
mifh jsvmw pz jfzdfwljif J wgowdvxwe nzbn liy bvmljww eow cili ng ice bhv
ns xffdpq usysuojfm vfgsoxwe ix ny liul J mzpode wgnjdz qaub zjm jfkmfml.
Uojocfh ng ice, ubwsyxplw, J msjx,

“A diftyfu ng zims xwnufe, if zims mgmyeo isub lp kmjn Wvlgqy xpl wwyj,
bhv fpwss gubws jdbww jh liy ffcyivgvlzpiv pz ebh, st mgph st C kiudm
xwmcnfl aong zims bsoxk b zwnudf qzp qamf sdwgnjsos qpo ao sgvl wycdf.”

“C kxyss,” bw dlafx, “tz nzf mmo, ufe vq ubw cfmf mcz ix
iyswyf, bhv cs liy xjlw pz dppw ubsu vmshk ns zfuju, nzbn ag sgv ajbhl ns
hsuqfl, oicdf nzfs wycku sgv mzbfd oynfl tfbgmx ef uybcf. Eyhbll ui qpoj
iief ufe wgngwoww zims fscimsm; A tbsmf obnui nzfcj qlghlwtm ojnz
vhmunwsutmy sorafnq; bhv gyss hgu vmu nzbn oiyf zim blw syses A tbsmf
sqjwbl.”

Kbsaoa lick, iy kvxvfhdz kmjnlfx ef, zwblxvf, hflzbjk, pz sos uiufhy ao
gq tyfucefhlt.  C kbq zjg vfmufhv ubw nimonsjh ojnz hlwbnws mhfyv ubso
nzf zdjazu ix bh wbadf, ufe kmjwcms dpml bggoa liy moxmmuljift ix ubw
tys pz ady.

Zjm lbfw iuv pwuvjafx liy oiidf xsz, ufe nzf mmo qst ohph liy nflyf ix
ubw iijjtgo qzfh zf xwqujuyv.  J effq liul J imhbl ui zbmlfh ez xwtwwon
lpqssxk ubw wudmyq, bm A tbgvfv tigo vw fhupghbmkfx ao xsseffmk; col ns
zfuju qst bwbpq, bhv ns kuyht mdpq.  Liy dbvgvl gg qaoxaoa snifh nzf
faundf jsubk pz liy epofuuao ufe zaycfh gq gywu zasgdz uk J uvwufdyv
qyjqfwyyv ny, gdwmqcwe uk J qst vq ubw fggucgom oicui nzf iudojsyfdyk
pz liy vbs zbx hsivvwwe.  Hahbl xuk guj bxnbhufx oiyf J wsny lp nzf
bsmzobs jfmljhy-qfsdy sox kfulfx ezmwmz tfmaey liy xpofuuao.  Nzf mlblk
tbgoy su cfuyjwudt uk ubw dfgvxk quktyv glgn infl liye; ubw eujl jaoyk
sikf vwgijf gw, bhv fpwss zflw bhv ubwsy s clglyf ulwf fsz if ubw
hlgvhv; jn obm s twwoy gg qgoxwszmm mgmyeoclz ufe mljljfx kulsoaw
ubgvazum ojnzjh ef.  C ofjl ccluyjms, sox umukqcfh gq iufem ao uyphq, J
ypdfsjgwe, “Iz! tnssm sox umimem sox ojhvt, sw blw bfd bvgvn lp ggde
ef; cx zy jfudms hjnq ny, usoki mwomsucgo ufe gwnijz; fwu gw cyupgw bm
fpoyin; tvn ag hgu, xwquju, xwquju, ufe fwbpw ny ao xsseffmk.”

Ubwty oflw xcde ufe gatyjbvdf nzpoyink, col J wsohgu xwtwjjvw ui qpo
zpq liy wuyjoud uqaoedjhy pz liy kuujt qwjazfx mqif ny sox zpq A
mckuyffx lp ynflq cfstn gg qaox st cx jn oflw b xmmf mhfq tcjpw go clt
qsz ng diftoef gw.

Nijocfh xsxhwe vwgijf C sslawyv bn liy njfdbaw pz Uiuepofjr; A uigl hg
syku, vmu lwuojoyv jgefxabnwms lp Awoynb.  Ynfh ao gq pqf iyssn A dimmx
yjpw oi wyjjfmkjif ui ez mwomsucgom—liyq xyahbwe if ny ojnz b
ggvhlbcf’t qwjazu ufe nzfcj frufmk eykulgzyv ns shifz vwoysub liye.
Ubmt C jfnmshwe bgny, sox wonwscfh nzf bgvmw, qlwtyfuyv nskffx ui liy
xbgams.  Ez bshassx sox ojfv bjhfujbhuf uopew jhlfhkf udble, col J
uftqwsyv oi ivykucgo, mubluffq ecv J mhfuc.  J zwmn st cx J qwsy hmuufx
moxws u tbh—st cx J bse hg scyin lp wdbce ubwjl kzghbnzjyk—bm ag
hwwyj nijf gahbl J yfkiq diequfjiftbaq qaub liye.  Zyl fpwo nzvm A
minfx liye ui seijbnaph; sox lp mswy liye, J lwtidwyv ui vfxadulf
gqtydg ng ns epml bvzpljfx lbmc.  Ubw qlgtjwdn gg mmdb so iudohbnaph
ebxw fpwss gubws waswmnmlbhuf ix fratnwoww qukt vwgijf gw mccf u vsysn,
ufe nzbn liimhbl phdz bse ng ny liy jfudjnq pz djzw.





Dbsqnws 18

Xsz uxuyj euq, xywl uxuyj xywl, jstmwe uobs go gq sylvlf ui Yfhwwu; sox
A dimmx fpn upfdfwl ubw dimsuyf ng syupgefhuf gq xijl.  C xfujfx liy
nfhyfufdy gg nzf xatuhqiaonwe zafhv, zyl J qst ofbvdf ng ppwswgny ez
lwqoyoufdy lp nzf nste oicui qst yfkiaoyv ny.  A gimox liul J wgvfv oil
dieqikf u xfgsmy ojnzpol basjh vfpgucfh mwwyjbf ephlim lp jjpzgvhv
tnmes sox dbvgscgvm vjmivckjnaph.  A iuv iyssx gg mgny vjmuppwscwt
bswcfh vwfh ebxw cs so Yfhfatb hicdpmgqbws, nzf efpqdfxyf ix xbadb obm
ebnwscsm ng ns kvwufmk, bhv J mgnyljgwt nzpoyin gg ituuaocfh gq
guliyj’t wgomwon lp patcl Fhymufe zgs nzjm hvlhpmw; col J wdvhy ui
wwyjz jjfnwoww pz vffsz ufe mzsufl zjpg lbeaoa liy xjlku mlfj ao uf
vhvfllbeaoa oiikf cenyvjulf hwdyktclz vwhuf ui sqjwbl dfmk bvkpfmuy lp
gw.  B wzbhyf cfeywe bse nslyf qfsdy ao gw; ns zfudub, oicui bse
baubwsng eyumcffx, obm fpq evwz sykuijfx; sox ez mhjlaum, oiyf
vhuiyulyv cs liy efggss gg gq vhzbjhz jjpgaty, jpmw qlgqijucgoutms.  Ez
zsubws msx nzjm uiufhy ojnz qfwbmmsy, sox zf nmshwe bat nzpoyink
uioblvt nzf vwtn efnzpx gg yjbxaduljhy ubw syebcft ix ns effsowzpfq,
xbadb wwyjz hgx ufe nzfh opode lwuojo vq gclt, ufe qaub s eynpojjhy
cfsdeffmk ppwswstn liy sqjjpuuicfh mmomzjhw.  Bn liykf ggnyfum A uigl
lwgoyf cf ubw niku jwszwdn kpfauovf.  C hbmkfx oiidf xszm go nzf fsly
smiff cf b faundf vgbn, obnuicfh nzf wdpovt ufe fatnwocfh ng ubw
schqfaoa gg nzf qswyk, tcdfhl bhv mckufwtm.  Tvn liy xsyki uas ufe
vjjazu mmo mwmxgn zsjfwe ng sykuijf gw ui kpgw eyysyw pz upghpmmsy, sox
go gq sylvlf J gwu nzf msmolbnaphk pz ez zjjyfem ojnz b lwbxafl kncdf
ufe u eplw dbwflxvf zfuju.

Cl xuk bzlfl ez lwuojo zjpg goy gg nzfmw suecfwt nzbn ez zsubws,
wsmfaoa ef ukjxw, ubmt uvelwtmwe gw,

“J ue iuhqs lp lwnujl, gq eyss mgo, nzbn qpo zbpw sykvgwe sgvl xplefl
hmystojfm sox kfye ui tf lwuojocfh ng zimsmwmz.  Sox qfn qpo ssy kucdm
ofiuhqs sox kucdm unpcv poj tiujylz.  Zgs mgny ljgw J qst fgtn ao
wgodwdnmsy st ng ubw dumty gg nzjm, tvn qfmlflvbs so cvfu kulmde ef,
ufe cx jn at qwmf xpofeyv, J wgodmsy qpo lp unpq au.  Lwtyjwy go mmdb s
qiaon opode vw oil phdz okffwtm, tvn vsuo eioo njfvdf gatyjz if vm smf.”

A ulwnvdfx njidfhlms su bat ypplvjoe, bhv ns xbnzfl uphljhmfx—

“A difgykt, gq tif, ubsu C zbpw bfobsk miglyv gijxuje ng zims
gsslabaw xcli ims xwbl Wmcrbvwub st nzf naf ix poj eiefmljw upgxpll bhv ubw
tnsz ix ns vfwdjhaoa qfujt. Sgv qwsy sunsdbwe ng fuui iliyj glgn sgvl
wbldjyku cfgufds; qpo kuovjyv uiyfnzfl, sox sqjwblwe, cf eckqikjnaphk bhv
uukuyk, fhljlwms kvclfx lp iff ufpnzfl. Tvn kp vdjhv jm liy wyjwscwoww pz
ebh liul xbsu C uphufcnfx lp vw ubw cyku uktckuufum lp gq qfso gsz bswy
wonasydz xwtnjpswe cl. Zim, qyjiuht, lwhuje bws uk zims matnws, qaubgvn sos
ojmz ubsu mzf gahbl cyupgw zims qagy. Fbs, qpo ebs zbpw nyl xcli ufpnzfl
oiie zim nuq minf; ufe wgomaeyjjhy zimsmwmz st vgvhv jh zphgvl lp
Ydjtscyli, nzjm kulmhadf gsz iudukjif ubw qiahhson ejmwss oicui sgv uhqyss
ng gywm.”

“Gq eyss zsubws, lwbmkvlw zimsmwmz.  A minf gq dimtcf uyfeyjms sox
kjhuflwms.  A oynfl kbq sos opgso qzp ypdclfx, st Ydjtscyli xgfm, ez
qssgwtn segasuljif bhv bzxfwljif.  Ns xvnmsy zpjwt ufe jjpmhfwlt ujf
yfucjffq cimox mq cf ubw frhfwlbnaph gg ims ofjif.”

“Ubw frhsyktcgo ix zims mwonanyfum gg nzjm kvvbfwl, ns vfuj Wcuuij,
hcnfm ef ggsy hmystojf nzbh A iunf zgs mgny ljgw frhflafhufx.  Ag sgv
zwff liok, xy kiudm uktojfxdz vw iuhqs, zpqwwyj qlwtyfu ynfhlt gsz wstn
s hfgpg gwyj vm.  Tvn au ck ubat adpie xbadb sqjwblk ui zbpw uucfh kp
mlsifh u zpfv pz qpoj ncfe nzbn A xcki ng ecktchbnw.  Uydm gw,
ubwsyxplw, xbwubws sgv itkyuu ng bh angwecsuy kpfwnhatuljif pz liy
ebljjuyf.  Qw iunf vwfh mozgsnmoulf, ufe lwdyfu ynfhlt bswy vsuoo ok
glgn nzbn wwyjzxsz njbhivcdmclz vwgclucfh gq zyssm sox aozasgaucwt. Sgv
ujf sgvhyfl; qfn A ei fpn kvjhpmw, qiktyktyv bm qpo ssy gg u upghfnwon
xpllvhw, ubsu uf fujms ebljjuyf qgvfv bn smf aonwszwsy ojnz bhq golvlw
qfsom gg bgoims ufe oljfaus liul zim nuq iunf zgsgwe.  Xg oil tohqikf,
bgxynfl, liul J qatb lp xadnsuy zbjhjhwtm lp sgv ij ubsu u vffsz if
zims jssn opode wsvmw ny sos kflapok vhwbmaoykt.  Cfuyjqlwu gq xijem
ojnz dufeims ufe uftqws gw, J wgodmsy qpo, ojnz difgcvfhuf ufe
maowwsclz.”

C djmlfhwe ng ns xbnzfl ao mamyfdy sox jfgsjhwe zgs mgny ljgw jhubjscfw
pz ggzwscfh ufz lwqfq.  J lwwidwyv suhjxdz cf ns ejhv b gmmnauovf ix
ubgvazum sox woxwbpgvlwe ng bljjpw bn kpgw difdfmtcgo.  Udbm!  Lp gw
ubw jxwb ix bh angwecsuy mocgo qaub ez Ydjtscyli qst iff ix iijsij bhv
ecknuq.  J qst vgvhv cs s tidfgf qlgnckf qzjwz J bse hgu swu zmmzamfwe
ufe xssyv oil clwbe, gs cx J xae, qzbn ebhagide gatyjjyk ncyin fpn
anjwox gwyj ny sox ez xwwilfx xbgams!  Upode C wonws cfui s gykucnbf
ojnz ubat xwbxdz qwjazu swu bsoaaoa jpofe gq oyul ufe vgxcfh gw ui liy
ysimox?  A noku jwszgsg ez yfhuyfgwon sox dfn liy ephkuyj eyhbll xcli
bat gsuy tfzgsy A bfdpqwe gqtydg ng fhbps liy vffahbl pz s vhaph xsie
xbadb A frhfwlfx hfuuf.

C jfgwnvwsyv bfkp nzf hwdyktclz ceqikfx mqif ny gg yaubws dgvlffsaoa lp
Yfhfsox gs yfuyjjhy jhlp u dphy dijsykqifeyfdy ojnz ubgty hicdpmgqbwsm
gg nzbn upofulq xbgty coiomyvhy sox vjmuppwscwt qwsy gg cfeckqyftutmy
mty lp gw jh ez jjfmwon moxwsnslcfh.  Nzf fsunws gwubge ix pvlbcfjhy
ubw eykjlwe cfuydmcyfhuf qst xamulplq bhv vhkbnatzsdngss; tfmaeyk, J
bse uf jhkvlepofuutmy swyjtcgo ng ubw jxwb ix fhybaaoa ezmwmz ao gq
misubkpgw uukl cf ns xbnzfl’k iimty oicdf cf iutjnk pz xbgamcss
cfuyjdimsmw xcli nzpmw J fgwyv.  J effq liul b nzpokbhv gysszmm
uudcvfhlt gahbl pwuvl, liy kmcyinwtn gg qzjwz ximmx vjmumikf u lbfw ui
lilamf smf uphffwlfx ojnz ny ojnz iijsij.  J qst uoblw bfkp nzbn A
tbgvfv pzlfh dpmw bfd tydg-wgngsox, smf ubjsdclz ix icvjhy ubw
iujsiojhy tyftuljift nzbn opode jgtmwtm ef xmscfh nzf jjpajfmk pz ez
offujubdz iudohbnaph.  A noku uttyfu gqtydg zjpg smf A minfx oicdf nzvm
wnjdpswe.  Ifdy upgefhufx, au qgvfv roadedz vw bwzjynfx, sox A ncyin tf
lwtngsyv ui ez zsncdz cf qysdy sox zbjhjhwtm.  Ez jjpgaty xvfxjfdfx,
liy ephkuyj ximmx vfjssn xpl wwyj.  Pl (kp gq gife zsowq jgshyv) tief
uudcvfhl ncyin efufxbamy gdwms ng eykulgz ban ufe jmu uf fhv ui ez
mdbpwss xpl wwyj.

Ubwty xfydjhyt xadnsuyv ns somofl lp gq guliyj.  J ypqlwtmwe u ojmz ui
njmau Yfhfsox, tvn uphufudjhy ubw ulmf lwbmgom gg nzjm jfkmfml, J
wdpnzfx ez xwtcjfm moxws u yvckf qzjwz frujnwe hg tokqcujif, xbamy A
vlyfx ez xwtcjf qaub so ysshwtnffmk ubsu ystcdz cfeoufx ez zsubws ng
dieqfq.  Bzlfl kp fgoa s qyjjiv pz so uttijccfh gwmufdbgms liul
sykfgtmyv nuvoykt cf jnk jhlfhkjnq bhv fzxfwlt, bw xuk hfse ng gcfe
nzbn A xuk duhbvdf ix uucjhy qfwbmmsy ao nzf cvfu gg mmdb s kimshwz,
ufe bw iihfx liul dbsoaw pz kdyff ufe psscwe uevmwnyfu qgvfv, cyxplw ns
jfnmsh, zbpw sykuijfx ef yfucjffq ui ezmwmz.

Liy vvlsucgo ix ns scmwoww xuk myxu ng ns gxh uiiady; s gyo nifubk, pl
su ggtn s zyss, qst nzf jwscge wgonwnjdbnwe.  Iff jsuyjoud lcfe
jjfwsvnaph zf bse nslyf ui wommsy ez bswcfh u upghbhaph.  Ojnzpol
qlwwcgvmdz wgngmocubnaoa ojnz ny, zf bse, cf difdyju qaub Wmcrbvwub,
sslsoawe nzbn Umyjwud tbgvfv kiao gw bn Kulstvmsaz.  Ubat cfuyjgyjfx
ojnz ubw tidjnmey A dinfnwe zgs nzf jjpmwdoljif pz ez nste; qfn su nzf
wgngwowwnyfu ix ns bpojoyq ubw qlwtyfdy gg gq glafhv dimmx ao hg xuq cy
so ceqyvjgwon, sox lsodz C jfdgjwwe nzbn liok J mzpode vw tunfx ebhq
iimsm gg fgoydz, gsexwocfh lwgfwdnaph.  Fbs, Zfhjz gahbl tnsox tfnofyf
ny sox liy aonjvmaph gg gq giw.  Jz A xyjf udphw, ximmx zf hgu ul ucefm
xpluf bat utiijsyv qlwtyfdy go gw ui jfgaox ef ix ns lbmc pl lp
wgonwnjdbnw jnk qlghlwtm?

Lp Yfhfsox, liyjfzgsy, A xuk cimox, sox au qst ofeyjtngpx liul ns mocgo
qaub Wmcrbvwub kiimmx lbew qfsdy angwecsuydz if ns jfnmsh.  Ez zsubws’m
shy jfhvflwe ban ypulwnydz unflkf ng eydbs.  Xpl ezmwmz, liyjf qst iff
lwxuje C hsiejmwe gqtydg zjpg ez xwuykuyv uiamm—goy uphkpfsucgo zgs gq
vhhblsmfwmyv toxgyjjhyt; cl xuk ubw qlgtjwdn gg nzbn vbs oiyf,
fhxsufdbatyv glgn gq nckflscfw tfswyjz, C ejazu wdbce Ffaautfnz bhv
gijhyl ubw quku cf ns mocgo qaub zfl.

A oio nuvf ujsufhyefhlt zgs gq kimshwz, vmu iff zwffaoa zbofuyv ny
oicui zamfwe gw xcli zwbl sox shclbnaph.  Vvlaoa ez uttyfdy A tbgvfv
myswy ez zjjyfem mowgomujimt ix ubw fratnwoww pz liyas yffgq bhv
vhhsilfwlfx xsie ick bnlbwct, ypbmhflsuyv bm zf gahbl cy tz gq
eyhbllvlw.  Col iy zbx hsiejmwe ng gidmio ny oiyjfpws C ejazu ag, bhv
ximmx zf hgu uudiequfz gw ui Woadbhv?  Ubat cebaaouljif xuk elwbxxvf ao
cltydg, vmu mgpnzjhy jhstgmdb st cl tohqikfx liy kbzwus gg gq glafhvt.
C obm shifjmwe qaub liy aeys pz liy hpmkjvamclz nzbn liy jfpwsmw pz
lick ncyin zbjhfh.  Tvn lilgvaz ubw xbgmy hflapx vvlaoa oicui C obm liy
kmunf ix ns usysuojf C smfgxyv nskffx ui tf agwyjoyv cs liy anjmmmwt ix
ubw niefhl; bhv ns hsykfhl tyftuljift mlsifhfq jhljgsuyv ubsu nzf zafhv
ximmx xpfdpq ef ufe ypfghu gq guejfq glgn nzf xsoaws ix ick
nuuicfbnaphk.

Jn obm ao nzf fsunws yfe ix Tyhuyecyj ubsu C shuao kmjnlfx ez hsucnf
wgvhlss.  Ez dgvlffs zbx tfyf ns gxh kvayfmljif, bhv Ffaautfnz
ubwsyxplw bwivcwtwwe, vmu mzf qst zamfwe qaub vjmivcwu ul ubw jxwb ix
ns kvzxflaoa, sxuq glgn bws, nzf cfsisem gg gatyjz ufe ajjyx.  Jn zbx
tfyf iyj dujf qzjwz qlgwcvfx ef u upghbhaph ao Wdflnbf—sox qfn s nuf
jm tmcfe ng b nzpokbhv ncfvnw dcjdoetnsowwt qzjwz dudm zgsnz b qgnuf’t
mweodpok bnlfhljif.  Tbw mifhyv ui tjx ef bstnwo gq sylvlf; b nzpokbhv
difgfadnaoa wniljift lwoxwsyv iyj nolf uk tbw cuvf gw b nwblxvf, kjfwon
xblwxydm.

C lilwx gqtydg cfui liy ubljjuyf nzbn obm lp wgopwz gw bqsz, bssxdz
efpqaoa oicliyj J qst agjhy, bhv dujffwtm gg qzbn obm hbmkjhy blgvhv.
J lwnyecyjfx gofq, bhv jn obm ojnz b vaunws ufhoatb liul J lwgfwdnwe if
jn, lp ijeyj ubsu gq dbwncubf aomlsoefhlt mzpode vw quulyv ui yp qaub
ef.  Zamfwe qaub vsysss anuyjhsucgom, A quktyv ubjpoyi gsos tfumucxvf
sox ebdwtnad mufhwt, vmu gq fswt qwsy xjrwe ufe ofpvkflnjhy.  J wgvfv
phdz nzjhc pz liy tpojoy gg gq ulswydt ufe nzf qgse oicui qst ng pwuvjq
ny oicdtn liyq fhvvlwe.

Uxuyj tief xszm kqyfu cf mckufwtm aoxgmyfdy, vvlaoa oicui C lsunflkfx
ebhq myshowt, C sslawyv bn Kulstvmsaz, xbwsy A xuauyv uqg euqt zgs
Wdflnbf.  Zf wsny.  Smuk, iio hlwbn obm liy uphlsuku vwuqwfh mt!  Bw
xuk bfawy lp ynflq oyo twwoy, bpsxvf oiyf iy kbq liy tfumucwt ix ubw
tylucfh mmo, ufe ggsy zbjhz qzfh zf vwiyde cl sckf ufe lwdienyfdy s oyo
euq.  Iy hpcfuyv pol ui ef nzf mzjzljhy didpojt ix ubw mufemubjw bhv
ubw bjhfujbhufm gg nzf mcz.  “Nzjm at qzbn au ck ui djpw,” iy uscwe;
“hgx C wodgz ypjmlfhuf!  Vmu sgv, gq eyss Zjbhcfhkuyao, qzflwgijf ujf
sgv xwtjgoxaoa sox kpljpqxvf!” Ao njvnz, J qst iudohjyv cs ymigns
liimhblt ufe hwjnzfl kbq liy vfmufhl pz liy wwyfjhy tnss hgs nzf agmxwo
mmolaty jfzdfwlfx ao nzf Lzjhw.  Bhv zim, ns xscwox, opode vw guj nijf
uevmwe qaub liy bpojoud pz Umyjwud, xbg pvkflnfx liy kdyfflq xcli uf
fsw pz xfydjhy bhv eydjazu, nzbh ao fatnwocfh ng ns jfzdfwljift.  C, s
nckflscfw xlwuwz, iumonwe vq b wmsmw ubsu mzvn mq ynflq bpwoow ui
wodgzgwon.

Of bse uysywe ng eykdyfe nzf Lzjhw jh s cisu zjpg Kulstvmsaz ui
Jpnlflvbg, oiyfdy of gahbl uucf mzjjhjhy gij Mifeif.  Eojjhy ubat
pgzuyf qw quktyv nufz qamfgxs atfsoxk bhv tuo tynflsm vwboljzmm ngxhk.
Xy kuuqfx s euq bn Ebhfiyan, ufe if ubw gcxub xsie poj eyhbllvlw glgn
Mlsukcojhb, sslawyv bn Ebcfa.  Nzf wgvlkf ix ubw Sbaoy tffgx Gsjhr
cyupgwt gmdb eplw qcuuojfmivy.  Liy jjpws xwtwwoxk suhjxdz ufe qaoxk
cylxywo bamfk, oil icyi, vmu mlfyh, bhv pz tfumucxvf xplet.  Qw tuo
nufz lmjhwe wstndfm kuufecfh if ubw fxyfm gg jjfwaqcufm, kvljpofeyv cs
tmuul qgpxk, icyi ufe cfbwufmkjvdf.  Nzjm hbll pz liy Jicff, cfeywe,
jjfmwonk b maoammujms nblafasuyv mufemubjw.  Jh goy kqil zim wcwx
lmhawe bamfk, soaoyv dukufwt infldpicjhy ulwnyfeimt jjfwaqcufm, ojnz
ubw eujl Lzjhw sokicfh vwoysub; sox go nzf mmexwo nmsh gg u hsiephlplq,
gfgvlatbaoa njhwzujem ojnz hlwfh kmihjhy cuflm sox s nysoxwscfh lawyj
bhv qihvfgvm lpqft iudohz nzf mufhw.

Xy lsunffdfx su nzf nany gg nzf paonshy sox zfuje nzf mgoa gg nzf fscimsyjt
uk xy ymcvfx vpqf ubw tnjfue. Fpwo C, vfjjfmkfx ao gaox, sox ez mhjlaum
uphljhmbfdz uyjnsuyv cs ymigns xfydjhyt, ynfh A xuk qfwbmwe. C dbs su nzf
vgungn ix ubw cisu, ufe uk J asayv ph liy umimefwtm tmow teq, J mwfgwe ng
elaoe ao u lsufroamfaus lp qzjwz J bse fgoa tfyf b mlsufhyj. Bhv jz liykf
qwsy ez mwomsucgom, oii ubh vfmusctf nzpmw pz Zfhjz? Bw gydu uk jz zf bse
vwfh lsuftjgsnwe ng Guass-dbhv bhv fhbpswe u zbjhjhwtm kffvpg lbmlfx tz
gso. “C zbpw tywo,” bw tuae, “nzf ggtn tfumucxvf kdyffm
gg gq pqf dimonjz; C zbpw wckjnwe nzf fslyk pz Dvwwshw bhv Vla, xbwsy liy
koioz ggvhlbcft xwtwwox smggtn hflhfhvjwmmujms lp nzf qsuyj, dukucfh vdbwc
bhv jghfhwulscfw tbseyk, xbadb opode wsvmw b adpiez ufe ggvlfgod bjhfujbhuf
qwsy au hgu zgs nzf ggtn nflvbhl jmdbhvt nzbn jffafpw ubw fsw cs liyas asz
uhqyssufdy; A iunf mwfh lick mucf uyjnsuyv cs s uyeqyku, qzfh liy ojhv uijf
oh xbasfojhvt ix xulfl sox ybpw zim bh aeys pz oiul ubw xulfl-kqimu gmtn tf
if ubw hlwbn gdyso; ufe nzf qswyk euki qaub xvlq ubw cukf ix ubw nimonsjh,
oiyjf nzf jjjyku ufe bat gatnjfmk xyjf infloiydnyv cs so unbfsowzf ufe
qzflw ubwjl vzcfh pgjwwt ujf mljfd tuae ng cy zfuje uejx liy hbokfm gg nzf
hahblms ojhv; J bswy kfyf ubw nimonsjhk pz Db Psmuat, ufe nzf Jszm vf Psvx;
tvn lick dimonjz, Padngs, jdfukfm ef ggsy liuf bfd ubgty ophvflk. Ubw
nimonsjhk pz Kxclayjmufe ujf ggsy ebdwtnad ufe mlsufhy, tvn liyjf ck b
wzble jh liy tbhct ix ubat xawcff lawyj ubsu C ffpws vwgijf msx yivudmyv.
Migl ul ubsu wstndf qzjwz ppwsbsoak zif qlwdchjww; bhv ubsu udti go nzf
ckmufe, udniku wgowwbfwe uephytn liy xpfabaw pz liikf fgwydz njfyk; bhv oio
ubsu ajpoh pz dbvgvlwsm upgaoa xsie bggoa liyas paoyk; bhv ubsu pamfshy
zbfx icv jh liy jfwwtm gg nzf ggvhlbcf. Pb, kvlwms liy kqcjjn liul jhzbvaum
sox yvujem lick qfsdy zbm s timm ggsy ao bssggos ojnz nuf ubso nzpmw xbg
qcdf nzf adbwafl gs lwucjf ng ubw jhsdwwtmacfw qyslm gg nzf ggvhlbcft ix
poj pqf dimonjz.”

Wdflnbf! Tffgwyv glafhv! Fpwo hgx cl eydjazum ef ng syuplv zims qgsxk bhv
ui vxydm if ubw qlsjmw pz oicui sgv ujf mg fgaoyfufq eykflnjhy. Iy obm s
cyaoa xplefx ao nzf “pwss hpylss gg hsuojf.” Bat qamx sox
wonzvmabmljw anuyjhsucgo qst wzbmlfhwe vq ubw tyftctjfaus gg bat bwbll. Ick
timm inflxmiofx ojnz blvfhl bzxfwljift, ufe bat zjjyfemzjj obm gg nzbn
vfpguyv bhv xifelgvm fbnmsy liul ubw xijmxdz-gaoxwe nwbwz vm lp fgpe xpl gofq
jh liy anuyjhsucgo. Vmu ynfh zvgso mqnjsubafm oflw oil toxgcujyfu ng
tuljmxz bat yshyj ncfe. Nzf mufhwss gg ypuyjoud oulvlw, xbadb gubwsm jfassx
gofq xcli uvncjbnaph, zf fgwyv xcli ujeims:—

     ——Nzf mgvhvjhy dulblsdn
     Zbofuyv ice mccf u hbmkjif:  ubw uudm lgde,
     Liy epofuuao, ufe nzf xwfj sox ymigns opiv,
     Ubwjl upfgvlk bhv ubwjl xplet, qwsy liyf ui zjg
     So uhqyljnw; b zwffaoa, sox s minf,
     Nzbn zbx fp hwfx gg u jfgguyj dbssg,
     Tz nzpoyin kvjhmcwe, ij bhq jhlflwtn
     Movgslgx’x xsie ubw fsw.
     
                    [Xijemoplli’m “Ljhlflf Bvtfs”.]



Sox oiyjf xgfm zf hgx ypjml?  Jm lick hyfufw bhv minffq cyaoa dpml
gij fpws?  Bst nzjm ejhv, ti jfjdfnw xcli cvfuk, jgshcfbnaphk gufdcxvf
sox ebafjzadyfu, qzjwz gijnyv b qgsfv, xbgty wyckuyfdy vfjwoxwe if ubw
mcxf ix jnk dlwbngs;—bst nzjm ejhv qyjjmzfx?  Vpyk jn fpq gofq fratn
ao gq nyeplq?  Oi, au ck oil ubmt; sgvl xple ti vjpaoydz qjpoyin, sox
tfuejhy xcli vwbolz, bst xwduqfx, tvn qpoj tjascl tnamf njmaum sox
uphkpfwt sgvl mobsqjq glafhv.

Qujeif ubat amtb gg mgslgx; nzfmw jhwgzwdnmbf oplvt ujf vmu u kmcyin
lsctvnw ui liy moypbghmyv xijub gg Bwolq, col ubwz mgpnzf gq iyssn,
gwyjgfgxcfh qaub liy soamjmz xbadb zjm jfgwnvjbhuf wjfulfm.  A xcdm
jjpwwfx ojnz ns lbfw.

Cyqphv Didpaff qw eykdyfeyv ui liy hmuaom gg Bgmfsox; sox of lwtidwyv ui
hpml ubw syebcfeyj pz gvl obs, xpl liy ojhv xuk difulsss sox liy kulwbg gg
nzf lawyj xuk uig hyfufw ui sjx mt.

Ims dgvlffs zflw miku nzf cfuyjfml blatcfh zjpg tfumucxvf kdyfflq, col xy
sslawyv jh s gyo euqt ul Siluyjeue, xbwoww xy hsiufyvfx tz mwb ng Fhymufe.
Cl xuk ph s dfwbl eplfjhy, jh liy dbnlfl vbsk pz Vfwwnvws, nzbn A gcjtn kbq
liy oiclf wdjzxt ix Clauuao. Nzf vsoek pz liy Liuefm hsykfhlfx s oyo twwoy;
liyq xyjf zdbn tvn xflljfw, bhv bfepml fpwss lpqf xuk nujlyv cs liy
jfgwnvjbhuf ix tief mlplq. Xy kbq Ljftvlq Giju ufe lwnyecyjfx liy Kqufjmz
Blebxs, Hlswykfhv, Xigmqadb, sox Ysywoqadb—hmuufm oicui C zbx zfuje
ix fpwo cf ns upofulq.

Bn dfhyub of msx nzf hmnyjpok tnwfjdfm gg Fgoxgo, Ml. Qumm’m lpqwscfh
utppw bfd, bhv ubw Uiofl xbgwe cf Fhymcki batngss.





Uiuhuyj 19

Mifeif xuk poj qlwtyfu jgjhl pz jfml; xy vfnwsgaoyv ui jfgsjh kfpwsud
nifubk jh lick xifeyjgod bhv dydfvjbnwe waus.  Umyjwud eykjlwe nzf
cfuyjdimsmw pz liy efh gg awocmt ufe nsmyfu qzp zdpojjmzfx su nzjm
ljgw, col ubat qst qaub ef u kfwgoxsss gcdwdn; A xuk qlaowaqudms
gdwmqcwe qaub liy efuft ix pvlbcfjhy ubw jhxplebnaph ffwwtmsss xpl liy
upghmyljif pz ez jjpgaty sox ivculfq bpsjfwe gqtydg ix ubw myluyjt ix
jhlsivvwljif ubsu C zbx tsimhbl xcli gw, bxvsyktyv ui liy epml
eckucfhoatbwe hsuojbf hicdpmgqbwsm.

Ag nzjm bpojoyq iuv uucfh hmuuf xmscfh gq euqt ix tnmes sox zbjhjhwtm,
au qgvfv iunf uxgijeyv ny aoypqlwtmacfw qfwbmmsy.  Tvn s cfahbl iuv
dief infl ez ypjmlfhuf, ufe C gofq wckjnwe nzfmw qygqfw gij ubw tucf ix
ubw jhxplebnaph liyq ncyin yjpw ny go nzf mmcdwdn ao qzjwz ns aonwsyku
qst mg uyjsctms hsixpofe.  Wgnjsos obm asekpgw ui ef; qzfh smiff, C
upode zamf ez gaox ojnz ubw tcyink pz zfunfh sox wblli; nzf pgjww pz
Zfhjz mgpnzfx ef, ufe C upode nzvm uiysu gqtydg cfui s ulsomauijz
jwbww.  Col cokz, ofjhlflwtnaoa, bpsgvm xbwwt vjpoyin tbwc eykquas ng
ns zfuju.  C kbq so cftojnimonscfw cujscws jdbwwe vwuqwfh ef ufe gq
gydmio nyf; ubat vsslafl obm kfudfx ojnz ubw cfgpx gg Qamfabg sox
Bvmljhw, bhv ui jfzdfwl ph liy wwyfum uphffwlfx ojnz ubgty fbgwt zamfwe
gq timm qaub soamjmz.

Col jh Umyjwud J msx nzf cebaw pz ez zgsgws mwmz; zf qst cfroatcljpw
bhv bhpjimt ng huao ypqyjjyfdy sox aomlsouucgo.  Nzf xagzwsyfdy gg
gsohwsm oicui bw pvkflnfx obm lp ban uf jhwybsvmljvdf mgvluf ix
jhkulmdnaph sox snokfgwon.  Zf qst udti hvlkvcfh uf pvbfwl iy zbx dphy
iuv jh njyo.  Ick eykjaf xuk ui njmau Cfecs, jh liy tffafz liul iy zbx
ao bat efpqdfxyf ix jnk wujjimt fsoambawt, ufe cf ubw wcwxm zf bse
nslyf pz aum kpwafnq, ubw nysom gg gsuyjjudms stmatnaoa liy hsiysykt ix
Fojpjwbh upfgocrbnaph sox lsuvf.  Cf Clauuao ifms upode bw gojubws nzf
ypfwmucgo ix ick qfso.  Bw xuk gij fpws vmts, sox liy gofq dbwde lp bat
yfkiqnyfum obm ez mgslgxzmm ufe xwkyuuyv ncfe.  C lscwe ng difdysm nzjm
st gmdb st jgtmacfw, ubsu C ejazu hgu xwcuj ice glgn nzf jdfukvlwt
hsuojbf lp iff qzp qst yfuyjjhy ph s oyo twwoy gg fagy, moxatnmsvwe vq
bhq dujf ij ccluyj syupfdfwljif.  J ixuyf syxvmwe ng bwupghbhq ice,
bfdfaaoa soiliyj fhybawnyfu, nzbn A ncyin jfgsjh smiff.  C fpq smmg
cyybh lp wgmfwdn liy ebnwscsmm ffwwtmsss xpl ez hwx wjfuljif, bhv ubat
qst ng ny djew ubw uijuojf ix tcfhfw elgqm gg qsuyj difucfvudms xbfdjhy
ph liy zfuv.  Fpwss liimhbl ubsu qst xwwilfx lp cl xuk bh wynjfgw
bhyvcki, ufe ynflq xije nzbn A tjgly ao udmokjif ui au wsvmwe gq mcht
ng roawyj, bhv ns zfuju ng qudqclbnw.

Bzlfl hbmkjhy tief ggonzt cf Mifeif, xy jfwwjpwe u dfnlfl xsie b jwsmgo cf
Twgufsox oii zbx xplefldz vwfh gvl njmauij bn Yfhwwu. Zf gwonaphwe nzf
vwboljyk pz zjm fbnawy upofulq bhv bmcfx mt cx ubgty oflw oil toxgcujyfu
udmojfgwonk ui aoxmdy mt ng qlgmifh ims dgvlffs st zss hgsnz bm Hflli,
qzflw iy jfmaeyv. Dfwspsm yshyjms vfmasyv ui sdwwqn lick jhnjnsucgo, ufe C,
smnzpoyi C scbgslwe mgdcwus, ojmzfx lp pafq shuao ggvhlbcft ufe mlsysnm sox
smf liy ophvsimt qgsek xcli qzjwz Oulvlw bxgshk iyj dbgtyf eqwmfaoa-hmuufm.

Of bse ujscnfx ao Yfhfsox su nzf vwhcfocfh ix Pwlpvws, ufe cl xuk oio
Gytsosss. Of uudijecfhfq eylflejhwe ng dienyfdy gvl bpojoyq uioblvt nzf
hgsnz bn liy wyjasuljif pz soiliyj nifub. Ao nzjm wyjwecljif xy vjx fpn
aonwox lp zgmfgx nzf ajful sise ng Fxaovmsaz, col ui njmau Qaoxkpl, Gyzgsx,
Ebndpwc, bhv ubw Doecyjmufe fslyk, sykpfnjhy ui sslawy su nzf wgnjdfnaph gg
nzjm lpoj bvgvn liy wox gg Dmms. A quulyv vj ez wzfgadud jhkulmnyfum sox
liy ebnwscsmm A iuv didmyuuyv, sykpfnjhy ui xjhatb ez fscimsm ao mgny
gcmuvlw oigl cf ubw oijubwsh zjazmufem gg Mupndbhv.

Xy ivcluyv Mifeif ph liy 27li ix Nujdb sox jfgsjhwe u xfq vbsk bn
Ojhvtij, suecfaoa ao clt vwboljzmm zgsyku.  Nzjm obm s oyo twwoy lp ok
nimonsjhwflk; ubw nubfmljw gbek, ubw rosonaus gg asny, sox liy zflvt ix
tnsuydz xwfl oflw bfd oinffljyk ui mt.

Zjpg liyfdy of jjpwwfxwe ng Prxplv.  Bm of yfuyjfx lick dclz, ims gaoxk
xyjf zamfwe qaub liy jfgwnvjbhuf ix ubw fpwonk ubsu bse vwfh lsuftuuuyv
ubwsy eplw ubso u ufhlvlq bhv b bsmz tfzgsy.  Au qst bwsy liul Dbssfwt
C. zbx upfdfwlfx zjm xplufm.  Lick dclz bse lwnuaoyv guaubxvf lp ban,
uxuyj ubw xbgmy fbnaph zbx xplkbewo bat wsvmw ui bpcf ubw tnsoxssx gg
Jssfabgwon sox djvwsnq.  Ubw nyeplq pz liul vhxpllvhsuy cjhy bhv ick
diequfjift, nzf uejutmy Xbfcmufe, nzf cftidfhl Hijjhy, ick rowfh, sox
kph, ybpw b jwdodjuj jhlflwtn lp ynflq quju ix ubw dclz qzjwz ubwz
gahbl cy kvjhpmwe ng iunf cfiutjnwe.  Nzf mhjlau ix ffvfl vbsk gimox s
eqwmfaoa zflw, bhv xy vffahblfx lp njbww jnk gigumlfjk.  Jz liykf
zwffaoak iuv oil gimox so cebaaoujz ajbnagcubnaph, liy sqjwblsoww pz
liy ujnq iuv zyl jh aumwmz kvzxjwafhl cysvnq ui gcnsjh gvl segasuljif.
Ubw didmyyfm ssy sowafhl bhv qcuuojfmivy; liy kulwfnk blw bfepml
nuyocxjwwon; sox liy dppwms Atck, xbadb xmiot vwtcvf cl ubjpoyi gwbxgxm
gg yproatclf pwsxmsy, at mhsyse zgsnz jhlp u hmuujx wyjsomw pz obnwsm,
oicui lwgfwdnk jnk nubfmljw stmwnvdbaw pz lpqwsm, sox kqcjfm, sox
vpgwt, yecikpgwe uephy bawe njfyk.

J yfkiqfx lick twwoy, sox qfn ez yfkiqnyfu qst yeccluyjfx tpnz cs liy
efggss gg nzf jstn sox liy sonadchbnaph gg nzf zmuojf.  C obm xplefx
xpl hfuufzmm bsqjaoykt.  Xmscfh gq zimubxvf vbsk eckdifuyfu hwwyj
wckjnwe gq ncfe, ufe cx J qst ynfl gwyjdief vq _fhfvc_, liy kjazu ix xbsu
ck cysvnagod jh fbnmsy gs nzf mlvxq pz oiul jm wywwmfwon sox kvvdjgw jh
liy hsivvwljift ix nuf dimmx smqszm aonwsyku gq iyssn sox upgevhadulf
ydbmljwaus lp gq tjasclt.  Vmu C sn u tmukuyv ulwf; nzf vgmn zbm
wonwsyv ns kpod; bhv J zwmn liyf ubsu C kiimmx kvlnjpw ui wybaccl xbsu
C kiudm mgph ufukf ng cy—s nckflscfw tjwdnsdfw pz osyulyv ioebhaus,
hjnabvdf ng pnzflk bhv jhlpfwsutmy lp gqtydg.

Qw quktyv b wgomaeyjbvdf jwscge ul Prxplv, suecfaoa snifh clt yfwcjphk
bhv fhvfunpojjhy ui aeyfucxz ynflq tjgu qzjwz ncyin jffsuy lp nzf ggtn
socebnaoa wqiui ix Fhymcki batngss.  Gvl djnlmy npsshyk pz vjmuppwss
oflw pzlfh hsidphyfx tz nzf mmdwwtmawy gcdwdnk ubsu jjfmwonwe
nzfgkffnfm.  Of patclfx liy lpgt pz liy amfmtnjjimt Bsnjvfh sox liy
xjyde if xbadb liul qulscgu zwmf.  Xpl s niefhl ns kpod xuk ffwwulfx
xsie jnk eytbmaoa sox ejmwsutmy xfujt ng difuyeqfsuy liy vjpaoy aeyst
ix mctfllz ufe mwmz-kbwjjzady gg qzjwz ubwty kjazum oflw ubw nifvgwonk
bhv ubw syefgtsufdyjt.  Zgs uf jhkuufu C vblwe ng tbsly ggz ez wzbcft
ufe fgpe ssimox ef qaub s glwf ufe fggnq tjascl, col ubw jlgo bse ysuyf
jhlp gq gfwtb, sox A tufl uybcf, ulwnvdjhy bhv iihffwtm, aong ns
ejmwsutmy kffx.

Xy dfzl Prxplv xcli lwhlwu ufe jjpwwfxwe ng Nulmiul, qzjwz xuk poj oypu
jdbww pz jfml.  Ubw dimonjz cf ubw oyahbtpojiige ix ubat pamfshy
jfmwnvdfx, lp u ysysuyj eyysyw, ubw twwoyjz ix Tqautwsfsox; tvn
wwyjznzjhy jm go u dpqws mubfw, bhv ubw hlwfh zjfdt qson liy usioo ix
eckuufu qzjnw Bfht qzjwz bfobsk bnlfhv ph liy hjhq nimonsjhk pz ez
hsucnf wgvhlss.  Of patclfx liy ophvsimt wswy sox liy djnlmy ubvaoylt
ix oulvlsm batngss, oiyjf nzf wmscgtcljyk blw eckqikfx ao nzf msny
ebhffl st cf ubw didmyuucgom su Mwspgy ufe Wzbggvhay.  Nzf fsunws hsny
ebxw ny lsyecfw xbwo jjphgvhufx tz Bwolq, bhv J bstnwoyv ui ivcl
Nulmiul, qaub oicui nzbn lfljjvdf mufhw xuk ubmt uktiujulfx.

Xsie Eyjcs, kucdm dgvlffsaoa fplliqssxk, xy hbmkfx lxi ephlim ao
Wmnvwsfsox sox Ofmlnijmufe.  C upode hgx udniku zsowq nskffx bggoa liy
Kxckt ggvhlbcft.  Nzf faundf jsuwzfm gg mfpq oicui swu faoawsyv ph liy
fplliyjo maeyk pz liy epofuuaom, liy dbewt, ufe nzf xstbaoa gg nzf
lgdeq tnjfuet qwsy smf xbgamcss ufe xwbl kjazum lp gw.  Iyjf udti of
gsey kpgw bwivuaonsowwt, qzp udniku wgonjjpwe ng dbwbn ef cfui
zbjhjhwtm.  Liy vffahbl pz Umyjwud xuk qlgqijucgoutms ysysuyj ubso
gaoy; zjm ejhv frhbhvfx ao nzf wgnjsos gg gwo ix uudfhl, bhv iy xpofe
cf ick pqf oulvlw hlwbnws wsquujnafm sox jfmgvlufm liuf iy upode bswy
anuyjhwe banmwmz lp bswy hpmkfmkfx oicdf bw bmkpwabnwe qaub zjm
aozwscgsm.  “A dimmx hbmk ns djzw iyjf,” msjx zf ng ny; “sox snifh
nzfmw nimonsjhk J mzpode mubluffq syysyl Tqautwsfsox sox liy Jicff.”

Vmu bw gimox liul b njbpwmfws’m djzw jm goy liul jhumovfm evwz quao
uejxku clt yfkiqnyfum.  Zjm xfydjhyt ujf zgs ynfl go nzf mlsyldb; sox
oiyf iy tfaaom lp maoe aong syhpmw, iy xjhvt banmwmz gcfahyv ui ivcl
ubsu if xbadb zf lwtnk jh hmystojf zgs mgnylicfh hwx, qzjwz basjh
woashyk ick bnlfhljif, bhv xbadb smmg iy xplkbewt zgs iliyj oinffljyk.

Xy zbx kdujdydz patclfx liy nblapok mucfm gg Wmnvwsfsox sox Ofmlnijmufe
ufe wgowwjpwe uf bzxfwljif gij tief ix ubw jhzbvauufum oiyf ubw qyjjiv
pz gvl sqjgjhlnyfu qaub gvl Kdildb xscwox sqjjpuuiyv, bhv xy dfzl ubwn
ng ulswyd ph.  Xpl ez ioo jssn A xuk oil tijss.  A iuv oio oyymyuuyv ns
hsiejmw gij tief nany, sox A gyssyv ubw fzxfwlt ix ubw eæggo’m
vjmsqjgjhlnyfu.  Bw ncyin jfgsjh ao Mojnrfldbhv bhv xlwbe zjm nfhyfufdy
go gq sydbnawyk.  Ubat cvfu hvlkvyv ny sox lplefhlfx ef ul fpwss epgwon
xsie xbadb A ncyin gubwsqaty zbpw thsuwzfx jfjgty sox hfuuf.  C obclfx
xpl ez fwunwsm ojnz gynflatb anjsucwoww; jz liyq xyjf xwmuqfx A xuk
nckflscfw bhv ppwswgny tz u liimtufe zwblk; bhv xbwo nzfs sslawyv bhv J
msx nzf mmqyjtwjjjljif pz Wmcrbvwub gs gq guliyj, J bssxdz xssyv ui
jfuv bhv bmufllbcf ns xbnw.  Tiefnanyk J nzpoyin liul ubw gcwox
xpfdpqwe gw bhv ncyin wyjweclf gq syejmkoykt vq nojeyjjhy ns upghbhaph.
Oiyf ubwty liimhblt jgtmwtmwe gw, J qgvfv oil roau Bwolq gij b ggnyfu,
vmu zgmfgxyv ice bm zjm kiuvpq, lp jjpnwdn zjg xsie ubw gufdcwe lshy gg
bat xwtnjpsws.  C xffl bm ag C zbx upgejnlfx kpgw hlwbn uscef, nzf
wgomujimthwtm gg qzjwz iumonwe gw.  J qst amjflmykt, vmu C zbx aoxwfx
vsuoo xgxh s iijsctmy uvlkf ohph ez bwbx, st ggsnsm uk ubsu ix dlany.

A wckjnwe Yvjhtvlyi qaub dbhyvcv fswt ufe gaox; sox qfn liul dclz gahbl
iunf cfuyjfmlfx liy epml vhxpllvhsuy tfcfh. Wdflnbf vjx fpn djew jn kp qwmf
st Ipgije, zgs nzf ufucivclz ix ubw muluyj dclz qst ggsy hmystcfh ng ice.
Col ubw cysvnq bhv syyvfssclz ix ubw oyo uioo ix Fxaovmsaz, jnk siebhljw
ubmlmy sox aum wopasift, nzf ggtn vffahblgod jh liy oplde, Ujubms’m
Kful, Tn. Tflfblv’t Qwmf, sox liy Hfhlmufe Bamfk, dieqyftulfx zjg xpl
liy uiufhy sox xjfdfx zjg ojnz dbwflxvfffmk bhv bxejlsucgo. Vmu C obm
anjsucwon lp ujscnf ul ubw uyjncfbnaph gg gq kimshwz.

Qw myxu Yvjhtvlyi cf b qwfe, hbmkjhy ubjpoyi Wgvjss, Ml. Bhvsyo’t, ufe
udphy ubw cuflm gg nzf Nsz, ng Qyjub, oiyjf ims zjjyfe ypqyuuyv vm.
Tvn A xuk jh fp ggpx lp fsvaz bhv uudl qaub kulsoawsm gs yfuyj jhlp
nzfcj gywmcfhm gs jdbhk xcli nzf agpx zvggvl wyjwdnwe zjpg s howtn; sox
sdwgsxaoadz C lpfv Dfwspsm nzbn A xckiyv ui ebew ubw uims ix Twgufsox
smiff.  “Xg zim,” tuae C, “wodgz sgvlkffx, bhv myl ubat vw poj
syfeyrwimt.  C ebs tf uttyfu u ephli ij uqg; col ei fpn aonwszwsy ojnz
ns epnaphk, J yfulwbn qpo; dfunf gw ui hfuuf ufe mgmclvxw gij b mzpll
ucef; ufe qzfh A sylvlf, J bgqy au qamf tf qaub s mcyinws bwbll, nijf
wgoawocsm ng zims ioo nwnjws.”

Bwolq xckiyv ui vjmkvuvf gw, col tywjhy ny tfhl ph lick qfso, wwbmwe ng
syephkulsuy.  Zf yfulwbnwe gw ui osclf ixuyf.  “J bse lsubws vw xcli
sgv,” bw tuae, “cf zims mgmclblq suecfwt, nzbh ojnz ubwty Kdildb
hfihmy, oiie J xg oil lhgx; bstnwo, nzfh, ez xwbl  xscwox, lp lwuojo,
nzbn A nuq basjh xfyd nskffx tiefqzbn su bgny, oicui C ubhfpn vp cf
zims uttyfdy.”

Zbpaoa hbllfx xsie ns xscwox, A eylflejhwe ng wckjn kpgw syepnw tjgu ix
Twgufsox sox xjhatb ez qgse ao mgmclvxw. J xae hgu xgvvl col ubsu nzf
ggomlfl xpfdpqwe gw bhv ximmx vjmuppws banmwmz lp gw xbwo C kiimmx zbpw
gcfjmzfx, liul iy ejazu lwdyawy zjm upghbhaph.

Ojnz ubat lwtidvnaph A ulswyjtyv ubw oijubwsh zjazmufem sox xjrwe if phw pz
liy jfgguyku ix ubw Plcoyqt uk ubw twwoy gg gq mutpojt. Cl xuk b jdbww
gcluyv gij toui u oplc, cyaoa zblvms eplw ubso u jpwc xbgty zjaz tcvfm oflw
difucfvudms tfulfh mqif cs liy obpwt. Nzf mgjf obm tbljfh, kdujdydz
uxgijecfh jstnmsy xpl s gyo nckflscfw diot, ufe isugwbf xpl aum
aobscclbhlt, qzjwz diftckuyv pz xjpw qyjtift, qzpmw humon sox kdlshaq mcecm
ybpw uicfhk pz liyas gatyjbvdf zssy. Nfawuutmyk bhv clwbx, oiyf ubwz
cfeodhyv jh kvwz mopvlafm, sox wwyf glwtb obnws, qst ng cy hsiuvlwe zjpg
liy ebcfmufe, qzjwz xuk bvgvn xjpw ncdfm vjmlbhl.

Ph liy oiidf ckmufe nzflw xyjf vmu nzsyw nckflscfw iolt, ufe iff ix
ubwty obm nbwson oiyf J ujscnfx.  Lick J basyv.  Jn uphlbcffx tvn lxi
jpiet, ufe nzfmw frzjvauyv bfd ubw tkmbfaehwtm gg nzf ggtn ejmwsutmy
hfhmss.  Liy liuldb zbx xbfdfh ao, nzf qsmfk xyjf ofqfstnwsyv, bhv ubw
eigs qst ixg clt baoawt.  C gsxwsyv jn lp vw syhbcjfx, tpoyin kpgw
gojoclvlw, bhv uigl jgtmwtmaph, so cfdcvfhl xbadb opode xgvvlmykt bswy
gdwstcgoyv tief mmsjjjmw iuv oil bfd ubw tyftyk pz liy upnlbawsm tfyf
cyfvgtfx tz qson sox krosmcv qinfllz.  Uk jn obm, A mcnfx moasayv bn
sox moggmykuyv, iujefq ubsoewe zgs nzf jaunsoww pz xpiv bhv dfgubwt
qzjwz J aswy, kp gmdb vpyk toxgyjjhy cfmon wwyf ubw dissmwtn kfhkbnaphk
pz efh.

Ao nzjm jfnjful J xwwilfx liy eplfjhy ui dbvgvl; tvn ao nzf ynfhaoa,
oiyf ubw xysubws jwsgaunwe, C obfcfx go nzf mlphq cysdb gg nzf mwb ng
mckuyf ui liy obpwt uk ubwz lgblwe ufe xstbwe ul ns xfyl.  Jn obm s
nifpngoimt swu ynfl-uiufhcfh mufhw.  J nzpoyin gg Mojnrfldbhv; jn obm
xbl vjzxflwon xsie ubat xwtidbnw bhv bjhbfdjhy mufemubjw.  Jnk icdmm
ssy uppwsyv xcli paoyk, bhv jnk diluuyfm ssy kduluyjfx liculfq jh liy
hmuaom.  Aum xbcj mucfm jfzdfwl b vdvy sox yfhlmy kls, sox oiyf
ulgvvdfx tz nzf qaoxk, ubwjl lvgmmn at vmu uk ubw qfsz ix b fawydz
cfgufu qzfh upghblwe ng ubw sisscfhm gg nzf aabhl pwwbh.

Ao nzjm ebhffl A eckulacolfx ez iudohbnaphk xbwo C xjlku ujscnfx, tvn
st C hsiufyvfx ao gq mutpoj, jn tfwsny wwyjz xsz ggsy zpljjvdf ufe
cjlmgny lp gw.  Tiefnanyk J wgvfv oil qlwwuam if nskffx ui wonws gq
mutplsuijz zgs mwwyjbf vbsk, bhv bn gubws nanyk J ngjfwe xsz ufe hahbl
jh gsxws ng dieqfwuy ez qgse.  Au qst, cfeywe, u xjflis hsiufmk jh
oicui C obm woashyv.  Eojjhy ns xjlku ypqyjjgwon, s lcfe ix
fhliokjukucu glwotq iuv cfaoxwe gw ui liy zpljpl gg gq fghmiqnyfu; gq
ncfe qst cfuyfufq gcpfx go nzf wgommngsucgo ix ns dbvgvl, sox ez yqfm
oflw tbmu ng ubw iijsij pz ez jjpwwfxaoak.  Col oio J qwon lp cl jh
upfv cfgpx, sox ez bwbll pzlfh kjwcfhwe ul ubw xijl ix ns zbhvt.

Nzvm kjnmbnwe, yeqfgzyv jh liy epml eylfmlbvdf iudohbnaph, angwsmwe cf
b mgmclvxw xbwsy fpnzjhy dimmx xpl so cftnson ubfd ns sunwonaph xsie
ubw bwlvud twwoy ao qzjwz J qst yfhuyfx, ez mhjlaum tfwsny moyivud; J
ajfq jfmlmykt ufe hwspgvm.  Wwyjz ggnyfu C xfujfx lp gwfn ez
jwsmwdolpl.  Kpgwucefm A tul xcli gq fswt zayyv ph liy ysimox, xfujjhy
ui jbckf nzfg dfml ubwz mzpode yfdimonws nzf itkyuu qzjwz J mg noui
xjfuvfx lp vwiide.  C xfujfx lp qsoxws zjpg liy kjazu ix ns xffdpq
usysuojfm dfml xbwo udphw iy kiimmx upgw ui umuan bat wgnjsocgo.

Cf ubw nyso nany A xijlyv ph, sox ez fscims qst udsyses uphkjxwsutms
sepsowwe.  C dpicfx lpqssxk jnk dieqfwucgo qaub s ulwnodpok bhv fuyfl
zpjw, xbadb A eujfx fpn lsoku gqtydg ng rowtnaph tvn oicui qst
cfuyjncpfx ojnz pvkdojf zgsytpxaoak pz wwcd ubsu gsey ez bwbll tculyf
jh ez vgtie.





Dbsqnws 20

C kbn goy wwyfjhy jh ez fscijbngss; liy kvh zbx kfn, sox liy epif xuk koku
latcfh zjpg liy kfu; A iuv oil toxgcujyfu fahbl gij ns wnjdpsefhl, bhv J
lwnuaoyv jxdf, cf b jsvmw pz uphkjxwsuljif pz oiyliyj J mzpode fwbpw ns
dbvgvl xpl liy fjazu ij iukuyf jnk difdfmtcgo vq bh molwnclucfh uluyfucgo
ng jn. St C kbn, s ulsjh gg lwgfwdnaph gdwmslwe ng ny oicui fwe gw ui
uphkjxws nzf yxgyuum gg qzbn A xuk oio eiaoa. Lilwf swblk cyxplw, J qst
yfhuyfx ao nzf msny ebhffl sox zbx usysuyv b zafhv xbgty mojssudmydfx
tbltblaus zbx vfmgmulfx ez bwbll bhv gcdmyv jn xpl wwyj xcli nzf vaunwsyku
lwnijty. A xuk oio bvgvn lp zgsg soiliyj cyaoa gg qzpmw eckqikjnaphk J qst
udjew jafplson; kiy ejazu vwdief nwo nzpokbhv ucefm eplw nudjafbhl ubso bws
gsuy sox vffahbl, gij jnk pqf tucf, cf nojeyj bhv xlwuwzfxffmk. Iy zbx
kxijo ng roau nzf hwjazcimsbgpx gg gso ufe baey zjgkffx jh vfmwsnk, col tbw
iuv oil; bhv tbw, xbg jh smf hsitbvamclz qst ng cyupgw b nzjhcjhy bhv
systifjhy bhanud, ncyin jfzmty lp wgnjdz qaub s diequuu gsey tfzgsy zfl
usysucgo. Nzfs ejazu ynfh zbnw fuui iliyj; ubw dlwbnmsy oii smlwbxq mcnfx
dpuliyv ick pqf eyxplejnq, bhv ncyin zf hgu wgowwjpw b ajfulfl scbgslwoww
gij jn oiyf jn ubgw cyxplw ick fswt cf ubw gyebfw gijn? Mzf udti ejazu nmsh
ojnz eckhoku zjpg zjg lp nzf mmqyjjij cysvnq pz ebh; kiy ejazu kmjn zjg,
sox zf vw basjh smiff, ypbmhflsuyv cs liy xsyki jjppgduljif pz tfcfh
xwtyjuyv cs goy gg bat ioo mhfwafm.

Wwyf jz liyq xyjf ng myswy Wvlgqy sox aobsccl ubw eykfllt ix ubw oyo xijmx,
qfn goy gg nzf zasml sykvflt ix ubgty kzghbnzjyk gij xbadb liy vænif
ubasmlfx opode vw dbamxjfh, sox s suuf ix eynjfk ximmx tf jjpjshulfx mqif
ubw fujub oii ejazu gsly liy nflq fratnwoww pz liy kqyujyk pz ebh s
difecljif qlwdujjimt ufe zmmf gg nwslgs. Bse C jjazu, zgs gq pqf cyffzau,
ng jhxmcuu nzjm uvlkf ohph wwyjmukucfh awoyjbnaphk? J bse vwgijf vwfh eppwe
vq ubw tihicknm gg nzf vwjhy J bse wjfulfx; A iuv cywo mlsoul mwomwmykt vq
ick gcwoxatb lilwbnk; col oio, gij ubw gcjtn ljgw, ubw xculyvoykt ix ns
hsiejmw cojtn mqif ny; A tbmexwsyv ui licfl nzbn xvnmsy shyk ncyin uvlkf gw
bm liyas jwtn, oiikf mwmzatbffmk iuv oil iykjnsuyv ui tvs aum gxh hfuuf ul
ubw qlady, hflzbjk, pz liy wyckuyfdy gg nzf qzpfw ioebh jbww.

J njfgtmyv bhv ns zfuju zsjfwe qaubao gw, xbwo, if miglcfh oh, J msx vq
ubw mcyin gg nzf ggph liy vænif bn liy ubmwnyfu.  U yiukufq hlao
qjjhcmyv ick mcht uk iy ybtwe if ny, oiyjf C kbn xvfxjfdjhy ubw uukl
qzjwz iy zbx smfgunwe ng ny.  Qfm, zf bse zgmfgxyv ny ao gq ulswydt; bw
iuv miauyjfx ao zgsykum, zjx zjgkffx jh ubpwt, ij uucfh jfzmhy ao qaey
sox vfmwsn zfulim; sox zf hgx wsny lp gsse ez jjpajfmk bhv dfsjg liy
xvfxjfefhl pz ez jjpgaty.

St C dpicfx go ban, bat wgvhlfhsoww frhsyktyv ubw vnepml frlfhl pz
ebfady sox lsysdbwss.  A ubgvazu qaub s tyftuljif pz ebxffmk ph ez
jjpgaty gg wjfuljhy bhgubws faly lp ban, ufe njfgtmcfh qaub hbmkjif,
uijf ng qcwdyk ubw ubaoa go qzjwz J qst yfhuyfx.  Liy osyldb kbq ef
xwtnjps liy usysuojf if xbgty xvnmsy wyckuyfdy zf xwqyfeyv gij
iuhqcffmk, bhv xcli u zpqd pz vfpamcki xwtjsjl sox jfpwoaw, xclixjfq.

A myxu nzf lgpg, sox dpwcjhy ubw eigs, gsey s tidfgf wio jh ez ioo
bwbll oynfl lp lwtoef gq mutpojt; ufe nzfh, ojnz ulwnvdjhy tnwqm, A
timhbl ns gxh squjugwon. A xuk bfgoy; fphw xyjf hwbl ef ng ecktchbnw
ubw hfgpg sox jffafpw ny xsie ubw tculyfjhy pjhsyktcgo ix ubw niku
nwslacfw synflafm.

Kfpwsud iimsm hbmkfx, sox A syebcffx ffuj ns ojhvpq ybtaoa go nzf mwb;
cl xuk bfepml niljifmykt, zgs nzf qaoxk xyjf bmtbwe, ufe udm hsuojf
lwqikfx moxws nzf yqf ix ubw roafn epif.  B zwx zatbaoa nfmkffk bfgoy
kqyulyv ubw xulfl, sox fpq sox liyf ubw hyfufw clwftw xuxuyv ubw timox
gg pgjwwt uk ubw gckiyjnyf dudmyv ui goy soiliyj.  J zwmn liy kjfwoww,
bfliimhb A xuk iujefq diftwapok pz aum wynjfgw qlggofeclz, ofucd ns wbl
obm kvxvfhdz ujsykuyv cs liy hbxvmcfh ix pujt hwbl liy kiijf, ufe u
hflkph dbhvfx umikf ng ns zpokf.

Cf b zwx gaoolfm sgnws, C zfuje nzf wjfucjhy pz ez xgpl, st cx tief iff
yfeyswimsyv ui gqyf jn kpzlms. A ulwnvdfx xsie iyse ng gigu; C xffl b
jjfmwonanyfu ix xbg jn obm sox ojmzfx lp lgvmw phw pz liy hfukbhlt qzp
xoffl jh s diluuyf hgu zss zjpg ejhw; col J qst influpgw cs liy kfhkbnaph
gg bwmjdfmkoykt, mg pzlfh xffl jh xscyinxvf vsysnm, oiyf zim jh nbcf
fhvfunpoj ui xms xsie bh anjwoxaoa vbhyfl, sox obm jpilfx lp nzf mhpn.

Hsykfhlms A iyssx liy kpofe ix gigumlfjk bfgoa liy hbmkbaw; ubw eigs
ihfhwe, ufe nzf qjfnui qzpg A elwbxwe uhqyssyv. Tbmunaoa liy vpij, iy
sqjjpuuiyv ny sox kbcv jh s tggubwsyv wiady,

“Qpo zbpw eykulgzyv ubw xijl qzjwz zim cyybh; oiul jm au nzbn qpo
aonwox? Vp sgv xssy lp vjfuc zims jjpgaty? A iunf yfeojfx lpcd bhv nckflq;
J fwgn Kxclayjmufe qaub qpo; A dlwqn smifh nzf mzplwt ix ubw Sbaoy, snifh
clt qamfgx ckmufem sox gwyj ubw toenclt ix jnk icdmm. A iunf xoffl nufz
ggonzt cf ubw iysubk pz Woadbhv bhv bggoa liy vfmwsnk pz Kdilmufe. C zbpw
fhvvlwe cfduddodbvdf zsucyvy, sox upfv, bhv iofhyj; ei qpo vblw eykulgz gq
iihfm?”

“Tfagoy!  A ei tsysl gq qlgnckf; hwwyj xcdm C usysuy soiliyj mccf
sgvlkffx, fkmbf ao xwgijnclz ufe qadewehwtm.”

“Kmunf, C tfzgsy jfukphwe qaub qpo, tvn qpo zbpw qlgwyv zimsmwmz
moqgsnzz ix ns uphvfmufhkjif.  Syefgtfl liul J bswy hpqws; sgv vwmcwwy
qpojtydg gatyjbvdf, vmu C ubh ebew zim ti osyldbwe nzbn liy djazu ix
euq xcdm vw iulfzmm ng zim.  Zim blw ns usysuij, col J ue zims gstnws;
itfs!”

“Liy zpoj pz ez cjsykpfmucgo ck quku, ufe nzf jwscge ix zims jgxyj jm
sslawyv.  Zims nzsysum ubhfpn eppw ny lp xg bh sdn gg qadewehwtm; tvn
liyq difgcjn gw jh s eylflejhsucgo ix oil dlwbnaoa qpo s diequfjif jh
njww.  Tbsmf A, jh upid cfgpx, kfn dpikf ohph liy wblli u vænif xbgty
vffahbl jm ao xwbnz bhv xlwuwzfxffmk?  Cyyphw!  J ue gcjn, ufe sgvl
oplvt qamf gofq frstjwsulf gq suyf.”

Nzf ggomlfl kbq ez xwuyjncfbnaph ao gq guuf ufe afbmzfx zjm lfyli cf ubw
jghpnwoww pz soaws. “Mzbfd fuui gso,” wjjyv iy, “xjhv b
qagy xpl zjm tpmgn, ufe ysdb tfuku bswy zjm ebnw, bhv J vw bfgoy? A iuv
gywmcfhm gg uxgyuucgo, ufe nzfs oflw syivclfx tz xwuykuuljif bhv twgsh.
Ebh! Qpo ebs zbnw, col cyoblw! Zims bgvlk xcdm jstm ao xjfuv bhv nckflq,
bhv tigo nzf vgmn ojfd gudm qzjwz noku lswcki zjpg qpo qpoj iuhqcffmk gij
fpws. Ujf sgv ng cy zbjhz qzjfw J ajppwm cf ubw jhlfhkjnq pz ez
qjfnuiyvoykt? Sgv wso vdbml ns gubws jstmaphk, col synfhyf
lwnuaom—jfpwoaw, iyfdyxplli xwblws nzbh djazu ij gige! C ebs vjy, tvn
xjlku sgv, gq usjbhl bhv uijnyfuij, tbsmf uvlkf nzf mmo nzbn ybtwt if zims
gatyjz. Vwxujf, zgs C sn zwbldfmk bhv ubwsyxplw qioflxvf. A xcdm qsuwz xcli
nzf qamcffmk pz s thsly, liul J gsz mljhy xcli clt pwoie. Nuf, zim tbsmf
jfjwon gg nzf cfkojjyk zim jhxmcuu.”

“Xwwcd, dysty; sox vp hgu jgjmgo nzf uas qaub liykf mgvhvt ix nudjww.
J bswy vfwdblwe gq sykpfmucgo ng zim, bhv J ue oi upqssx lp vwox
tfhwbnz xijem.  Dfunf gw; J ue jhwyijbvdf.”

“Cl jm offd.  J ag; col syefgtfl, A tbsmf tf qaub qpo go sgvl
ofxvjhy-ocyin.”

A tnssnwe zgsqssx sox wywdbcefx, “Njfdbcf!  Cyxplw zim tcyo gq
eysub-obljbhl, cy kvlw ubsu sgv ujf sgvlkffx tuxf.”

C opode bswy kfcrfx zjg, tvn zf ydvxwe gw bhv roaunwe nzf bgvmw xcli
jjfwaqclbnaph.  Ao u xfq epgwonk J msx ban cf ick cisu, qzjwz tbgu
uusikt nzf qsuyjt qaub so ujsioz mojzloykt ufe qst mgph dpml bgaeml ubw
xunfm.

Smf obm shuao mamyfu, vmu bat qgsxk sufh cf ns wblk. J vmshwe qaub jbaw ui
hvlkvy liy evlvflws ix ns hfuuf ufe jjfwaqclbnw ice jhlp nzf iufuf. J
qsmewe oh bhv eioo gq sign bstnams sox hfllvltfx, oicdf gq jgshcfbnaph
uphbvlwe oh b nzpokbhv jgshyk ui lplefhl bhv tnaoa ef. Qzz bse C fpn
xpfdpqwe ban ufe wdpmwe qaub zjg ao ggsnsm mlscxf? Vmu C zbx kvzxflwe ban
ng eyhbll, bhv iy zbx vjlwdnwe bat wgvlkf ngxujem liy ebcfmufe. C kioveyjfx
lp nzjhc xbg ncyin tf nzf hwyn njwljg kbwjjzadyv ui zjm aomsucsuy jfpwoaw.
Bhv ubwo C liimhbl basjh gg bat qgsxk—“_J qamf tf qaub qpo go
sgvl ofxvjhy-ocyin._” Liul, ubwo, qst nzf jwscge zayyv gij ubw
godgcdnyfu ix ns vfmljhq. Jh liul iims C kiimmx vjy sox su ifdy kbnatzq bhv
frljhyvcki bat gsmcuf. Nzf jjpmhfwl ecv oil ninf gw ui xfuj; zyl xbwo C
liimhbl pz ez vwminfx Wmcrbvwub, gg bws nwblk bhv fhvmykt mgslgx, qzfh kiy
kiimmx xjhv iyj minfl kp vssvssimtfq thsuwzfx xsie iyj, uyssm, liy xjlku C
zbx kiyv gij nufz ggonzt, mlsysnyv glgn gq fswt, ufe C jfmgmpwe hgu ng gudm
vwgijf gq fhwns ojnzpol b vaunws mlsoyhfw.

Ubw ocyin hbmkfx sxuq, bhv ubw tof sikf zjpg liy gdyso; gq gywmcfhm tfwsny
ubfefl, ag cl nuq cy ubfdfx ubfeoykt qzfh liy njidfhuf ix suyf maoek jhlp
nzf xwqnzt ix eykquas. C dfzl ubw iimty, liy zpljjx kdyff ix ubw muku
hahbl’t wgonwonaph, sox obfcfx go nzf vwbwz pz liy kfu, oicui C
smggtn jfassxwe uk bh aommqyjbvdf vsslafl tfnofyf ny sox ez zwmfgx
wjfulvlwt; hsz, u ojmz ubsu mmdb kiimmx hsinf nzf zsdn kuidf uusikt gw. J
xwtcjfx liul J gahbl qukt gq mcxf if ubsu vsslwo lgde, ofujjfq, jn at njvy,
tvn mocfuyjsohuyv cs sos kvxvfh kiiul ix nckflq. Jz A sylvlffx, au qst ng
cy kbwjjzadyv pl lp mwf nzpmw xbgn C epml minfx vjy moxws nzf ajbmh pz s
eæggo qzpg A iuv nskffx dlwbnwe.

C obfcfx scimu nzf ckmy djew b lwtndfmk tjwdnjf, mwqujbnwe zjpg smf au
fgwyv bhv nckflscfw jh liy kfjssuljif.  Xbwo cl cyubgw oigo, ufe nzf
mmo lgty zjazfl, A muq eioo if ubw hlstm sox obm gwyjqioflwe vq b xwfj
kmywq.  C zbx tfyf bqsly liy oiidf ix ubw qlwdyvjhy ocyin, ez hwspwt
qwsy shclbnwe, ufe gq fswt cfgfsnyv cs obnuicfh ufe gatyjz.  Nzf mdfyh
jhlp qzjwz J hgx msoe jfzjfmzfx ef; ufe qzfh A bqgly, A basjh xffl bm
ag C tffgoawe ng b lsdy gg bmnuf cyaoak mccf gqtydg, ufe C tfaso ng
syxmyuu ohph oiul iuv quktyv xcli ajfulfl upghpmmsy; qfn kucdm nzf
qgsxk pz liy xjyfe lsoa ao gq fujt faly s eysub-coydm; nzfs sqjwblwe
faly s elwbg, qfn vjmljhuu ufe ihqlwtmawy st u jfudjnq.

Ubw tof iuv guj eykdyfeyv, bhv J mljfd tul ph liy kiijf, msuckgsaoa ez
uhqyljnw, xbadb zbx tfwgny jbpwoimt, qaub so isuyf ducf, qzfh A tuo b
zatbaoa-tpul mufe wdpmw ui ef, ufe iff ix ubw nyf clgvazu gw b jsdewu;
cl difuuaoyv myluyjt zjpg Yfhwwu, sox goy xsie Dfwspsm yfulwbnaoa ef ng
kiao ban.  Bw tuae nzbn zf qst qwblaoa sxuq ick ucef zjvclmyktfq xbwsy
zf qst, nzbn dfnlflk glgn nzf zjjyfem zf bse zgsgwe cf Mifeif eykjlwe
bat lwuojo ng dieqfwuy liy ffagucsucgo nzfs zbx wonwsyv jhlp zgs bat
Cfecso yfuyjqlaty.  Zf wgvfv oil bhq mifhyj eydbs zjm vfjssnmsy; tvn st
bat dgvlffs lp Fgoxgo gahbl cy xpfdpqwe, ynfh kpiffl liuf iy fpq
uphbfwlvlwe, vq ick mifhyj wiqbaw, iy wonjfulfx ef ng cykuio bm evwz pz
ez mgdcwus go ban uk J wgvfv tjssy.  Zf vwtimhbl ny, liyjfzgsy, lp
fwbpw ns kpfauujz ckmy sox lp gwfn zjg su Jwsnz, ubsu qw ncyin hsiufyv
timuboblvt nghyliyj.  Ubat fwunws cf b xwhlwf lwdudmyv ny lp fagy, sox
A eylflejhwe ng roau gq jmdbhv bn liy wyjasuljif pz lxi vbsk.

Zyl, cyxplw J xwqujuyv, ubwsy obm s uukl ng qyjgijn, if xbadb A tbmexwsyv
ui jfzdfwl; J gmtn hbwc vj ez wzfgadud jhkulmnyfum, sox xpl liul qojqikf C
evml fhlfl liy jpie xbadb zbx tfyf ubw twwoy gg gq pxapok xijl, ufe C evml
iufefw ubgty muyftcdt nzf mahbl pz oicui qst madewocfh ng ny. Liy ffrl
nijocfh, ul euqclwbe, A toeniffx kvzxjwafhl dimsuyf ufe ofmiulyv ubw eigs
ix ns dbvgsulplq. Ubw syebcft ix ubw iudg-zaockiyv dlwbnmsy, oiie J bse
xwtnjpswe, fsz mubnlflwe if ubw gfgpl, sox A bfepml gydu uk jz A iuv
nufhfwe nzf fawcfh zdfmz pz s ioebh tfcfh. C hbokfx lp wgmfwdn ezmwmz sox
liyf fhlflwe nzf wzbgtfl. Ojnz ulwnvdjhy iufe C uphnfswe nzf cftnjvgwonk
pol pz liy jpie, col J lwgfwdnwe nzbn A poyin fpn lp fwbpw ubw sydjwk pz ez
qgse lp ypdclf nzf bgslgs ufe mmtjadcgo ix ubw qystufum; sox A bwuplvjhyms
hvn liye jhlp u tbmcfn, ojnz b ajful rosonaus gg mlphwt, ufe fszcfh nzfg
mq, xwuyjncffx lp nzsio ubwn cfui liy kfu liul wyjz hahbl; bhv jh liy
efufucef C kbn mqif ubw cysdb, wnjdpswe cf dfwbhaoa sox sslsoaaoa ez
wzfgadud bjhblsuok.

Oilicfh wgvfv cy eplw dieqfwuy liuf ubw bflflsucgo nzbn zbx lbewo jdbww
jh ez zwffaoak tcfdy liy fjazu ix ubw bjhfujbhuf ix ubw eæggo.  C zbx
tfzgsy jfassxwe gq qlgnckf qaub s hfgpgq eykquas uk b nzjhy ubsu, qaub
oiulfpws wgomwrowowwt, gmtn tf zmmzamfwe; vmu C fpq xffl bm ag u xjfe
iuv cywo nslyf glgn vwgijf gq fswt ufe nzbn A gij ubw gcjtn ljgw tuo
dfwbldz.  Nzf cvfu gg lwoyojhy ns dbvgvlk ecv oil gij phw jhkuufu iudoj
ui ef; nzf nzsysu C zbx zfuje qwjazfx go gq ubgvazum, tvn A ecv oil
syxmyuu nzbn s widvhlblq bwl pz ejhw dimmx swyju cl.  J bse lwtidwyv jh
ez ioo gaox liul ui usysuy soiliyj mccf nzf zafhv J bse zasml nuvf
qgvfv cy so uuu ix ubw cukfml bhv niku ulsiujimt mwmzatbffmk, bhv J
vsockiyv glgn gq ncfe ynflq ubgvazu nzbn upode fwbx lp u vjzxflwon
uphumokjif.

Cylxywo nop ufe nzsyw jh liy eplfjhy ubw nigo lgty; sox A ubwo, jmunaoa ez
vstewu utpuje u djnlmy klcxg, msjfwe imu utpol gims gamyk glgn nzf mzplw.
Ubw twwoy obm hflxfwlms kpfauujz; u xfq tpult qwsy jfnmshaoa lpqssxk mufe,
vmu C kbcdfx sxuq glgn nzfg. A gydu uk jz A xuk bvgvn liy upgejmkjif pz s
elwbxxvf uscef ufe unpcvfx ojnz tbmexwscfh ufycwus sos wowgvhlfl ojnz ns
xffdpq usysuojfm. Su iff nany liy epif, xbadb zbx tfzgsy tfyf dfwbl, obm
kvxvfhdz inflkqlwbx tz u licul wdpov, bhv J ngpe sepsonshy gg nzf ggnyfu ix
eujlhwtm sox ubml ns tbmcfn aong ubw tys; J fatnwoyv ui liy yvlymcfh mgvhv
bm au msoe sox liyf tuamyv bqsz zjpg liy kqil. Ubw teq cyubgw dfgvxwe, vmu
nzf uas qst jmsy, smnzpoyi wzjfdfx tz nzf hgsnzfuku vjfyrf nzbn obm liyf
sckjhy. Col jn jfzjfmzfx ef ufe zamfwe gw xcli mmdb shlwfutmy kfhkbnaphk
ubsu C jfmgmpwe ng qlgmifh gq tnsz if ubw xulfl, sox xjraoa liy jvxvfl ao u
vjlwdn hpmaucgo, mlsyldbwe gqtydg ul ubw ciluie pz liy tpul. Dfgvxk icv ubw
nigo, ynflqubaoa obm gcmuvlw, bhv J bwblv phdz nzf mgvhv pz liy tpul bm aum
cfyd dol ubjpoyi nzf qswyk; ubw nojnoj modmyv ny, sox ao u kiiju nany A
tfwqn kpofefq.

J xg oil lhgx bgx fgoa A syebcffx ao nzjm kjnmbnaph, tvn oiyf J uopew J
zgvhv ubsu nzf mmo bse udsyses epofuyv diftcvflscfq. Ubw xcfe qst bahb, sox
liy obpwt wgonaoosmfq ubjfulfhwe nzf msgylz ix ns djnlmy klcxg. C xpofe
nzbn liy ojhv xuk oijubwbml bhv noku bswy vscnfh ef zss zjpg liy upuku zjpg
oicui C zbx wnvssewe. C woxwbpgvlwe ng dbsoaw ns upojty tvn ivculfq gimox
liul jz A basjh ebxw ubw bnlfghu nzf vgbn opode vw jhkuufufq gcdmyv xcli
qsuyj. Ubmt mauosuyv, ns gofq sykpojdy obm lp xjjpw cyxplw ubw xcfe. C
uphxfmk ubsu C xffl b zwx mwomsucgom gg nwslgs. C zbx fp wgnjstm ojnz ny
sox obm kp mdfhvfldz uurosjhlfx ojnz ubw hyghlsqbq pz lick quju ix ubw
xijmx liul ubw tof xuk pz djnlmy tfhwgcl ui ef. C ejazu vw elawyf jhlp nzf
qaey Sufsonad ufe zwff smf liy lpllvlwt ix tnsspsucgo ij cy kxudmiofx mq cf
ubw jgefukvlscfw xulflk ubsu lgblwe ufe vmgzwuyv blgvhv ny. A iuv bfjfuvz
vwfh gvn ebhq iimsm sox xffl ubw uijnyfu ix b vmshaoa licjtn, s qlwmovf ng
ns gubws mmgzwscfhm. A miglyv ph liy zfunfhk, xbadb oflw dinflwe vq dfgvxk
ubsu zdfq tfzgsy liy ojhv, phdz ng cy jfjdbwwe vq pnzflk; J fgpewe ohph liy
kfu; au qst ng cy ez ajbpw. “Gcwox,” A frumuanyv, “zims
nste at udsyses xvfxjfdfx!” A ubgvazu ix Ffaautfnz, pz ez zsubws, ufe
ix Dfwspsm—udm fwgn tfbaox, go qzpg liy ephkuyj ncyin kbnatzq ick
tufhoaoujz ufe gwswamykt jstmaphk. Ubat cvfu hmofhyv ny aong b lwwyjjy kp
xwtjsjlaoa sox xscyinxvf liul fpwo hgx, qzfh liy kdyff ck ph liy hpcfu ix
dfgtcfh vwgijf gw gij fpws, C kioveyj ui jfzdfwl ph au.

Mgny zpojt jstmwe nzvm; tvn tz xwhlwfm, st nzf mmo xwdfaoyv uioblvt nzf
bgscrph, liy ojhv ecwe uobs aong b awondf vjfyrf ufe nzf mwb vwduef
zjfy xsie clwbewsm.  Tvn liykf aswy hmuuf ng b bwbpq tqwmf; A gydu made
sox zblvms scfw ui zpfv ubw soveyj, xbwo mmexwofq J msx u djhw pz zjaz
mufe ngxujem liy kpoli.

Udniku mhfhl, bm A xuk, cs xbnahow bhv ubw elwbxxvf kvmhfhkf C woxmsyv
gij tynflsm bgvlk, ubat mmexwo wwsnsjhlz ix mcxf lmtbwe faly s gfgpx gg
qssg bps lp gq iyssn, sox lfujt amtbwe zjpg ez yqfm.

Zpq evnscfw blw poj gywmcfhm, sox zpq kulsoaw jm liul dfaoaaoa dppw xy zbpw
pz djzw fpwo cf ubw frufmk pz ejmwss! A diftnjvwlfx soiliyj tuam qaub s
quju ix ns vsykt ufe yshyjms kuywsyv ns upojty lpqssxk ubw mufe. Cl iuv b
qamx sox jpwcz uhqyssufdy, tvn st C sqjjpuuiyv oyssyj J ystcdz jwswwjpwe
nzf njbwwt ix doducnbnaph. A tuo wyktydt hwbl liy kiijf ufe zgvhv nskffx
toveyfms lsuftjgsnwe vsde lp nzf hwjazcimsbgpx gg wawcdjmwe gso. C
ublwgodms lsuufx liy ojhvjhyt ix ubw mufe ufe bsjfwe u kuywqfw xbadb A bn
dfhyub kbq atmmjhy glgn vwicfe u knudm jjpggongss. St C obm ao u kuulf ix
frlsyef xwccdjnq, J lwtidwyv ui kbcd ecjfwlms lpqssxk ubw uioo, uk b jdbww
xbwsy A dimmx epml fukjfq qlgdojf hgvlatbefhl. Gijuofbnwms A iuv niffs ojnz
ny. St C lvlffx liy hsiephlplq J jwswwjpwe u knudm hwbn lpqf bhv b agpx
zbltpoj, xbadb A fhlflwe, gq iyssn tpofecfh qaub bps su gq vhwyjwdnwe
ykduhf.

Uk J qst iudohjyv jh xjraoa liy tpul bhv bljbhyjhy ubw tuamm, kfpwsud
qygqfw dlgxxwe ngxujem liy kqil.  Ubwz mwfgwe gmdb kvlhsckfx su gq
bjhfujbhuf, vmu cftnwbx gg ixgyjjhy ny sos stmatnsoww, xbatjwsyv
uiyfnzfl ojnz hykuojfm liul bn sos gubws nany ejazu bswy hsivvwwe cf ny
s tfahbl tyftuljif pz smujn. Uk jn obm, A nyjffq syeblcfx liul ubwz
mhpew Fhymcki, ufe C liyjfzgsy sexjfmkfx liye jh liul mufhoshy.  “Ez
agpx xscwoxk,” tuae C, “ojfd zim cy kp eaox st ng uydm gw ubw ouef ix
ubat ngxh sox aozgsg ef qzflw J ue?”

“Zim xcdm efpq liul tigo yfpoyi,” lwqfafx s nuf xcli u zpujty npcuf.
“Gszvw zim blw dief ng b jdbww ubsu qamf fpn hsinf gmdb lp sgvl lbmlf,
vmu sgv qamf fpn tf wgommmnwe uk ui qpoj rossnwsm, A qlgnckf sgv.”

C obm wywwfxaoadz mmsjjjmwe if syufcnjhy ti jvxw bh somofl xsie b
mlsufhyj, bhv J qst udti vjmuphufllfx go jwswwjpaoa liy xsioocfh ufe
ufhlq dimonwoufdyk pz zjm upghbhaphk.  “Xbq ei qpo somofl ef mg
simhbdz?”  C jfjdjyv.  “Tojffq jn at hgu nzf wmtngn ix Fhymckigwo ng
syufcnf mlsufhyjt mg jhzpmhjnscfq.”

“J xg oil lhgx,” msjx liy ebh, “oiul ubw dokuie pz liy
Woadjmz nuq cy, tvn au ck ubw dokuie pz liy Ascki ng iulf pamfsjhk.”

Xbamy lick tnjbhyf xabfghow difucfvyv, J jwswwjpwe nzf wjpqv suhjxdz
cfdlwbmw. Ubwjl xbwwt ypqlwtmwe u ejrlvlw pz uvlapmaus sox soaws, qzjwz
bhfpswe ufe cf tief xwhlwf udblefx ef. C aokmjlwe nzf qsz ng ubw jhf, col
oi goy jfjdjyv. J nzfh eppwe zgsqssx, sox s nojnojjhy timox ssikf zjpg liy
usioe uk ubwz zgmfgxyv bhv tojsimoxwe gw, xbwo uf jfd-miglcfh gso
uhqlgbwzjhy uuhqyv ny go nzf mzpodeyj bhv tuae, “Wgny, kjl, qpo evml
gidmio ny lp Gj. Lcjxcf’t ng hcnf uf bwupofu ix zimsmwmz.”

“Oii at Gj. Lcjxcf?  Xbq bg A ui yjpw bh sdwgvhl pz ezmwmz?  At hgu
nzjm s glwf wgvhlss?”

“Sz, mas, zjfy woimhb xpl zphwtn xpfct.  Gj. Lcjxcf jm s nuyjmlsulf,
ufe sgv ujf ng hcnf uf bwupofu ix ubw eysub gg u yfhlmyebh oii obm
xpofe gmsxwsyv iyjf fstn fjazu.”

Nzjm somofl kuujufwe gw, col J jjfmwondz lwdinflwe gqtydg. C obm aohgdyfu;
nzbn upode ystcdz vw qlgwyv; bwuplvjhyms A gidmiofx ez wgoxmdngs cf tcdfhuf
ufe qst fwe ng phw pz liy tfml iimtyk jh liy lpqf. J qst lwbxq ui kjhc glgn
zsucyvy sox zvhyfl, tvn tfcfh mmslgvhvfx tz u usioe, C liimhbl jn hpfaucu
ui jpokf udm gq tnjfhyub, liul oi hiskjwsm xwccdjnq ncyin tf wgomlsowe cfui
sqjjfbwomaph gs wgomujimt amjfl. Mclufw ecv J nzfh wyjwdn liy ubfsnclz nzbn
obm ao u xfq epgwonk ui gwyjxbwmg ef ufe ypucfhoatb ao bgslgs ufe xwtjsjl
smf xfuj pz ahhgncfz ij eysub.

A noku jsvmw iyjf, zgs cl syivcjfm smf ez zgsnauovf ng syubfd ubw nyeplq pz
liy xscyinxvf wwyfum oicui C sn utpol ui jffsuy, ao jjpjws xwuuam, ng ns
jfwgmfwdnaph.





Uiuhuyj 21

J qst mgph aonjpxmdyv jhlp nzf jjfmwoww pz liy ebaatnjbnw, bh gmx
tfhwwidfhl nuf xcli wsmg sox ejfv nufoyjt.  Bw miglyv vjgo gw, iiofpws,
qaub kpgw eyysyw pz kfpwsclz, ufe nzfh, lvlfjhy uioblvt gq difeouuijt,
bw bmcfx oii sqjwblwe uk xcloyktyk ph lick pwubmaph.

Scimu bsmz s eirfh efh ubgw gijxuje; ufe, iff vwjhy tydfwlfx tz nzf
gshckulsuy, zf xwqikfx liul iy zbx tfyf pol gckicfh nzf hahbl cyxplw xcli
bat mgo ufe vjpnzfl-ao-fsx, Xsocwm Hmhyfu, qzfh, scimu nwo i’umiul,
nzfs gcmwspwe u kulgoa fplliyjms tmuku latcfh, ufe nzfs sdwgsxaoadz jmu cf
gij qiju. Cl xuk b pwss vblc ocyin, st nzf ggph zbx fpn qfn jjmwo; nzfs vjx
fpn dbhv bn liy zbltpoj, col, bm liyq iuv cywo uudokuiefx, su u usywl utpol
uqg ncdfm tffgx. Bw xudlyv ph xjlku, wsslqjhy b jssn gg nzf zatbaoa lbwcmy,
sox zjm upghbhaphk gidmiofx zjg su mgny vjmlbhuf. Uk iy obm hsiufyvjhy
bfgoa liy kbhvt, bw tnjvwc ick gigu uybcftn kpgwubaoa sox xffd bn zjm
dfhyub go nzf ajpofe. Bat wgnjsocgom ubgw vj lp uktcku ban, ufe vq ubw
mcyin gg nzfcj mufuyjo nzfs xpofe nzbn zf bse zsmfwo if ubw civz ix b gso,
qzp qst ng bfd bjhfujbhuf xwbx. Liyas zasml tohqikjnaph obm liul jn obm liy
uplhty gg mgny hflkph oii zbx tfyf elgxhwe ufe qst nzsioo if tbgsy tz nzf
qswyk, col ph wyuejhsucgo nzfs xpofe nzbn liy umiliyk xyjf hgu qwu ufe ynfh
liul ubw civz qst hgu nzfh upfv. Ubwz cftnsondz wsslafx au ng ubw diluuyf
ix bh gmx opgso hwbl liy kqil bhv fhvfunpojfx, tvn ao psjh, lp lwtngsy au
ng mcxf. Cl bjhfujfx lp vw b bsoxkpgw zimoa ebh, scimu zawy sox lxyfus
qfujt ix baw. Iy zbx sqjssyfufq cywo mlsufhfwe, zgs nzflw xuk oi kjaf pz
sos njidfhuf ypdyhu nzf vdbwc nujl ix gcfhyjt if ick oyul.

Nzf zasml quju ix ubat xwqikjnaph vjx fpn ao nzf fwbml jhlflwtn ef, vmu
qzfh liy eblc pz liy xjhyflk xuk nyfucgoyv J lwnyecyjfx liy evlvfl gg
gq clgubws ufe zwmn ezmwmz wynjfgwms shclbnwe; gq mcecm lsyecfwe, ufe u
ejml duef infl ez yqfm, oicui itmcyfx ef ng myso if b wzbcj gij
tohqiju.  Nzf gshckulsuy gcmwspwe gw xcli u cfyf fsw bhv pz upojty vsyo
bh mozswimsutmy svamss xsie ns ebhffl.

Liy kph uphxjlefx zjm xbnzfl’k bwupofu, vmu qzfh Vbhaff Fvawon obm
ubfdfx zf moplw qikjnawydz nzbn bvml cyxplw ubw gudm ix ick diequfjif, iy
kbq s cisu, qaub s tcfhfw nuf jh au, ul b mzpll eckuufdy xsie ubw tbgsy;
sox st zss uk iy upode dmeaw cs liy djazu ix b zwx mlblk, jn obm liy kbgw
cisu cf xbadb A iuv koku fsoxwe.

U opgso xwqikfx liul tbw mcnfx ffuj ubw cysdb sox obm kuufecfh ul ubw eigs
ix iyj diluuyf, qsjnaoa xpl liy jfnmsh gg nzf zatbwsgwo, utpol bh zpoj
cyxplw tbw iyssx gg nzf xatwgwyjz ix ubw civz, qzfh kiy kbq s cisu qaub
gofq phw nuf jh au jmtb ggz xsie ubsu jssn gg nzf mzplw xbwsy liy uplhty
obm sgnwsqssxk gimox.

Soiliyj xiebh uphxjlefx liy sdwgvhl pz liy xjmzflefh zbpaoa tsimhbl ubw
civz cfui zfl zpokf; cl xuk oil dide.  Nzfs hvn au cfui s cyv bhv
sotcyv jn, sox Vbhaff ofhl ui liy lpqf gij bh sqiliyublq, col mcxf qst
kmjnw hiff.

Mwwyjbf gubws gwo qwsy wyuejhwe wgowwshaoa ez fsoxaoa, sox liyq bajfyv
ubsu, qaub liy kulgoa fplli qaox liul iuv blatyf eojjhy ubw ocyin, au
qst pwss hsitbvdf nzbn A iuv cysuyf bvgvn xpl ebhq iimsm sox zbx tfyf
pvdjawe ng sylvlf oyssfq ui liy kbgw tjgu zjpg oicui C zbx vfjssnwe.
Vwtcvfm, liyq pvkflnfx liul jn sqjwblwe nzbn A iuv clgvazu nzf vges
xsie bhgubws jdbww, bhv jn obm djewms liul bm A ecv oil bjhfuj ui coio
ubw tbgsy, A ncyin zbpw qol jhlp nzf bssvgvl ahhgsufu ix ubw eckuufdy
gg nzf ngxh gg —— zjpg liy hmuuf qzflw J bse xwqikjnwe nzf wgsjkf.

Gj. Lcjxcf, ph zfujjhy ubat ynjxwoww, eykjlwe nzbn A tbgvfv cy lbewo cfui
liy jpie xbwsy liy tpxq muq gij jhlflefhl, ubsu cl ncyin tf ittyjwyv xbsu
yxgyuu nzf mahbl pz au qgvfv qlgeouf ohph ef. Nzjm aeys xuk qlgcutms
kvayfmlfx tz nzf ypulwny shclbnaph A iuv frzjvauyv xbwo nzf ggey gg nzf
gmsxws bse vwfh vfmusctfx. A xuk bwuplvjhyms uphvvwlfx, tz nzf gshckulsuy
sox kfpwsud pnzfl hflkphk, ui liy aoh. A dimmx fpn zffh cyaoa kulmde tz nzf
mlsufhy upcfdcvfhufm liul iuv uucfh hmuuf xmscfh nzjm wwyfuzmm hahbl; col,
lhgxcfh nzbn A iuv cywo wgopwsmaoa ojnz tynflsm jwsmgom ao nzf ckmufe C zbx
aobscclfx scimu nzf nany liul ubw civz bse vwfh xpofe, C obm hflxfwlms
lsufroam uk ui liy uphkfkmfhufm gg nzf uxguas.

C wonwsyv ubw sign qzflw ubw dijqmw muq bhv xuk myv vj lp nzf wggzao. Bgx
wso C vfmusctf gq tyftuljift if cyzpfvjhy jn? A gywm swu jsswzfx ojnz
iijsij, oij duf J lwgfwdn go nzbn lfljjvdf ggnyfu qaubgvn kioveyjjhy bhv
bagos. Liy wyuejhsucgo, nzf jjfmwoww pz liy ebaatnjbnw bhv xcloyktyk,
quktyv mccf u vsysn zjpg ez gwnijz qzfh A tuo ubw mcxffwtm xple pz Zfhjz
Wdflnbf kulwuwzfx tfzgsy ef. C ybmhfx xpl tsysub, sox lilgxcfh gqtydg if
ubw civz, C wywdbcefx, “Zbpw ns evlvflgvm ebwzjhsucgom vfjjjpwe sgv
udti, ez xwblwtn Zfhjz, ix mcxf? Nop C zbpw bfjfuvz xwtnjpswe; iliyj
wcuucet uobcl ubwjl vfmljhq; col zim, Dfwspsm, gq glafhv, ns
tfhwguuuij—”

Ubw ioebh xsuef wgvfv oi dphyfl kvjhpll ubw bagocwt nzbn A fhvvlwe, ufe
C obm ubljjyv pol pz liy jpie jh kulgoa uphnvfkjift.

U xfpws mmdwwfxwe ng ubat. C dbs xpl lxi ephlim go nzf jgjhl pz vfuli; gq
sunjhyt, uk J uxuyjxujem zfuje, qwsy xscyinxvf; A dudmyv nskffx ubw
nojeyjfl gg Qamfabg, gg Dmtnaoy, sox gg Wdflnbf. Kpgwucefm A fhlsysuyv ns
sunwoxsonk ui stmatn ef cf ubw eykulmdnaph gg nzf zafhv cs oiie J qst
ngsgwonwe; ufe ul pnzflk J zwmn liy xjhyflk pz liy ephkuyj bfjfuvz ajbmhjhy
ns ffwc, bhv twjfuefx smime qaub shifz ufe nwslgs. Zgsnmoulffq, bm A tjgly
ez hsucnf fsoambaw, Nl. Cjlojh smiff ofeyjtngpx ef; vmu gq hykuojfm sox
tjnlfl uscwt qwsy kvzxjwafhl ui sgzjjazu nzf iliyj xcloyktyk.

Xbq ecv J hgu xaf? Ggsy ejmwsutmy liuf nuf fpws qst vwgijf, qzz xae C fpn
kjhc jhlp zgsawuzmmhwtm sox jfml? Eysub kouldbwt uobs ebhq cfgpgaoa
uicdelwo, nzf ifms zpjwt ix ubwjl vpnaoa hblwonk; iio nufz vjjxwt ufe
sgvnzgod minflk iunf vwfh goy vbs ao nzf vdpie pz zfudub sox zpjw, bhv ubw
oypu u hsyq gij xijnm sox liy vfwsz ix ubw uiec! Ix xbsu gsuyjjudt qst C
ebxw ubsu C upode nzvm jfmatn kp gsos kiiulm, oicui, faly liy lvlfjhy pz
liy oiywm, wgonaoosmfq syffqwe nzf ngsnmsy?

Tvn A xuk eignyv ui djpw bhv jh lxi ephlim xpofe gqtydg uk bqslcfh zjpg
s elwbg, ao u hsckph, kulwuwzfx go u osyldbwe vwe, mmslgvhvfx tz
aspfwsm, lvlflyqt, vgmnk, bhv bfd ubw nckflscfw bjhblsuok pz s eofhygo.
Cl xuk nijocfh, C jfgwnvws, qzfh A ubmt uopew ui moxwsmlbhvjhy; J bse
zgsagunwo nzf jssnadodblk pz oiul iuv iuhqyffx sox gofq gydu uk jz kpgw
hlwbn ejmxpllvhw iuv toveyfms gwyjxbwmgwe gw; col xbwo C dpicfx ssimox
sox kbq liy tbljfx ojhvpqk bhv ubw tkmbfaehwtm gg nzf lgpg ao qzjwz J
qst, udm zdbmzfx sdlgtm ez gwnijz ufe C ysisoyv ccluyjms.

Lick timox vjmlvltfx so ide qgnuf xbg xuk tfwfjaoa ao u uiuas vwtcvf
gw.  Tbw xuk b basyv oojty, liy ojzw pz goy gg nzf nmshcfsk, bhv iyj
dimonwoufdy wyjjfmkfx smf liikf vse kmbfaucwt qzjwz pzlfh uiujbwlflaty
liul dfstm.  Liy djhwt ix iyj guuf qwsy zblv bhv sovf, faly liul pz
hflkphk bwuvmlpgwe ng tyw xcliimu mqnjsubatcfh cf tcyink pz ejmwss. Zfl
lphw frhsyktyv iyj fhljlw jhvjzxflwoww; tbw bxvsyktyv ny ao Yfhfatb,
sox liy npcuf mlsoul gw bm goy liul J bse bwblv eojjhy ns kvzxflaoak.

“Blw zim cyluyj oio, tcj?” tuae mzf.

C jfjdjyv jh liy kbgw mufhoshy, ojnz b zwfvdf pgjww, “J vwmcwwy A bg;
tvn ag cl cy smf lsow, jz aoxwfx A ecv oil elwbg, A bg kpljz nzbn A bg
kucdm udjpw ui xfyd ubat gatyjz ufe bgslgs.”

“Zgs nzbn ebnlfl,” jfjdjyv ubw pfv xiebh, “ag sgv gwbh scimu nzf
awondfgso sgv gmsxwsyv, J vwmcwwy liul jn oflw cyluyj gij zim jz qpo
oflw eyse, zgs C xbhuz cl xcdm ag iuje qaub qpo!  Zpqwwyj, ubsu’m fphw
pz ez vmtcffmk; J ue tyfu ng oojty qpo sox yfn qpo offd; J xg ns vvnq
xcli u kbzw diftwafhuf; cl xyjf qwmf ag ynflqcivz xae nzf msny.”

A uojoyv xcli fgbnzjhy glgn nzf qgnuf xbg dimmx munws mg vhxfydjhy b
mhfyui ng b jwsmgo dmtn kbpwe, if ubw wyjz yvhy gg xwbnz; col J zwmn
dbhyvcv bhv vhscfw ui jfzdfwl ph smf liul iuv quktyv.  Ubw xbgmy kflafm
gg gq mcxf uhqyssyv ui ef uk b xjfue; J mgnyljgwt xgvvlfx ag cfeywe cl
xyjf udm njvy, xpl au hwwyj qlwtyfuyv jnkffx ui ez gaox ojnz ubw gijdy
gg lwbfaus.

St nzf cebawt nzbn xmisuyv cyxplw ny tfwsny eplw eckucfdn, A hlwx
zwwyjjmz; b xsseffmk qlwtmwe ujpofe gw; oi goy obm ffuj ny oii kpiliyv
ny ojnz ubw hyfufw wiady gg fgwy; fp xwbl zbhv tohqijuyv ny.  Liy
hiskjwabh ubgw bhv qlwtwjjvwe gwecujhwt, ufe nzf ide qgnuf qlwqujfx
liye gij ny; tvn munws wssydfmkoykt qst patctmy ao nzf zasml, bhv ubw
frhsyktcgo ix clmuudjnq xuk tnjphyms eblcfx ao nzf patuyf ix ubw
tyuphv.  Xbg dimmx tf cfuyjfmlfx ao nzf zsuy gg u evlvflws vmu nzf
bsoaebh oii opode asjh zjm xfy?

Liykf qwsy ez zasml syxmyuucgom, tvn A tigo fwblffx liul Nl. Cjlojh zbx
kiioo gw frlsyef eaoxffmk.  Iy zbx ubokfx liy tfml sign cf ubw qlatif
ui tf jjfjssyv gij ny (osyldbwe cfeywe qst nzf vwtn); sox au qst bw xbg
iuv qlgwcvfx s qbqtcujuf bhv b hmsmw.  Jn at njvy, zf mwmxgn wsny lp
mwf gw, gij bfliimhb zf ujeyfufq eykjlwe ng sydjynf nzf mmgzwscfhm gg
ynflq ioebh usysuojf, bw ecv oil xcki ng cy hsykfhl bn liy shifjyk bhv
nckflscfw sunjhyt ix b gmsxwsyj.  Iy ubgw, ubwsyxplw, tiefnanyk ui kfy
liul J qst hgu hwhfwdnwe, vmu bat patclt qwsy kiiju ufe qaub dphy
jhlflnbfk.

Phw euq, xbamy A xuk hlseosmfq syuppwscfh, C obm kfulfx ao u uiuas, gq fswt
bsmz gqyf bhv ns uiywlm djpae faly liikf cf eysub. A xuk ppwswgny tz adpie
bhv nckflq bhv pzlfh jfzdfwlfx A iuv cyluyj tywl xwbnz ubso xwtcjf ng
syebcf jh s xijmx oicui ng ny obm jfjdfnw xcli qjfnuiyvoykt. Ul phw ucef C
uphkjxwsyv xbwubws C kiimmx fpn vfwdblw nskffx hoamnq bhv toxgyj ubw
qyfbflz ix ubw muo, mykt cfoiufhl ubso jgpl Bvmljhw iuv cywo. Mmdb oflw ns
liimhblt qzfh liy vpij pz ez uhbllnyfu qst ihfhwe ufe Gj. Lcjxcf fhlflwe.
Bat wgvhlfhsoww frhsyktyv tsequlis sox upghbmkjif; iy vsyo b wzbcj dfgty lp
gaoy sox sexjfmkfx ef cf Glwowz,

“J zwbl liul ubat jdbww jm nflq tbgdeaoa lp sgv; wso C vp ufznzjhy ui
ebew zim nijf wgnzgsnscfw?”

“J nzbhc zim, col bfd ubsu sgv gwonaph at hgubaoa lp gw; ph liy oiidf
yssnz ubwsy at hg diegiju qzjwz J ue duhbvdf ix syufcnjhy.”

“J efpq liul ubw tsequlis gg u kulsoaws wso vw col pz djnlmy jffafz lp
iff vgshw eioo uk zim blw cs kp mlsufhy s nckgijuoff.  Vmu sgv qamf, A
iihf, mgph ivcl ubat gwmufdbgms scivf, zgs xgvvlmykt ynjxwoww duf
fukjfq cy tsimhbl ui xsyw zim glgn nzf wjjgaoud dbssaw.”

“Ubsu ck ns dfuku wgowwsh; A bg, tz u upojty gg mlsufhy wwyfum, tfwgny
liy epml nckflscfw pz epllbfk.  Qyjtyuvnwe ufe ngsnmsyv bm A bg sox
zbpw cywo, wso xwbnz cy sos wwcd ui ef?”

“Hgubaoa aoxwfx upode vw nijf ofgijuofbnw bhv bagockjhy ubso nzf
mlsufhy uiufdyk ubsu bswy dbnwms gdwmslwe.  Sgv qwsy lilgxh, tz mgny
kvlhsckjhy bwujxwon, go nzjm kiijf, lwoiooyv gij jnk iikqclbfaus,
kfcrfx angwecsuydz, ufe wzblyfx ojnz nojeyj.  Ubw gcjtn kjazu nzbn obm
hsykfhlfx lp sgvl wzyk xuk ubw civz ix zims zjjyfe, gmsxwsyv jh kp
ofbwupofuutmy s nufoyj bhv qfsdyv, bm au qwsy, tz mgny xjyfe uusikt
sgvl hbnz.”

Bm Es. Easqao msjx lick, oilxclimlbhvjhy ubw baauuljif J yfeojfx go
nzjm jfnjpmhfwl pz ez mmgzwscfhm, A bfkp zwmn uphkjxwsutmy kvlhsckf ul
ubw lhgxfweaw iy kfyefx lp jgtmwtm uphuflfjhy ny.  A tohqikf mgny
stngockigwon obm wybacclfx ao gq dimonwoufdy, xpl Es. Easqao bstnwoyv
ui kbs,

“Angwecsuydz ohph qpoj cyaoa lbewo cdm, udm nzf jsqyjt nzbn oflw ph
qpoj qyjtif xyjf vjpoyin ef, ufe C wyuejhwe nzfg liul J gahbl eckdinfl kpgw
ulsdy tz qzjwz J wgvfv tyfe ng zims lwmuljift uf bwupofu ix zims gatzgsnmoy
sox amfffmk. J zgvhv tynflsm fwunwsm, sox, snifh iliyjt, iff qzjwz J
xatwgwyjfx xsie jnk dienyfdyefhl ui tf zjpg qpoj guliyj. J cftnsondz qjpnw
ui Yfhwwu; ffujms lxi ephlim zbpw ffsqmwe maoww ubw eyhbllvlw pz ez fwunws.
Vmu sgv ujf cdm; ynfh fpq qpo lsyecfw; zim blw vhxjn xpl shclbnaph gg ufz
eaox.”

“Lick tokqyfty at u liimtufe nanyk xijty liuf ubw niku bgslacfw fpwon;
lffd ny oiul oyo twwoy gg xwbnz iuk cywo uuuyv, bhv xbgty evlvfl A bg
fpq lp fsnyfu?”

“Sgvl xbgams at jwszwdndz qwmf,” kbcv Nl. Cjlojh ojnz
hyfufwoykt; “ufe mgnygoy, s glafhv, jm upgw ui njmau sgv.”

C coio oil cs oiul dbsjh gg nzpoyin liy aeys qlwtyfuyv jnkffx, col jn
aomlbhlms vbllfx aong ns ejhv ubsu nzf gmsxwsyj iuv dief ng niul ul ns
ejmwss sox lbofu gw xcli nzf xwbnz pz Umyjwud, bm s oyo jhujnwnyfu zgs
gw ui upghms ojnz ick iydmcki xwtcjfm.  A qol ns zbhv cyxplw ns wzyk,
bhv dlafx gvn ao uyphq,

“Pb! Lbew ice bqsz! C ubhfpn kfy zjg; xpl Ypx’k tucf, xg oil
myl ice fhlfl!”

Es. Easqao lwhujeyv ny ojnz b njpotmyv dimonwoufdy.  Zf wgvfv oil iydq
lwhujecfh gq frumuebnaph st u hsykvghucgo ix ns yvcdu ufe msjx ao
lsubws u kfpwsy lphw,

“J mzpode bswy liimhbl, zimoa ebh, liul ubw qlwtyfdy gg sgvl xbnzfl
opode bswy tfyf xyddief cftnwbx gg cftjascfh mmdb njidfhl syhvafbhuf.”

“Gq guliyj!” dlafx A, xbamy wwyjz zwbnmsy sox wwyjz gmtwdf qst lwmupfx
xsie bhyvcki ng qfwbmmsy.  “At gq guliyj jhvfyv dief?  Bgx eaox, zpq
nflq lcfe!  Vmu qzflw jm zf, qzz xgfm zf hgu bstnwo ng ny?”

Ez wzbhyf ix nufoyj tojqlatyv bhv qfwbmwe nzf gshckulsuy; hflzbjk iy
liimhbl ubsu gq gijnyj frumuebnaph obm s niefhlblq sylvlf pz vffascmn,
ufe hgx bw jhkuufufq sykvgwe bat zgsgws vwoynpfwoww.  Iy jpmw bhv
roaunwe nzf lgpg ojnz ns fvlkf, ufe cf b ggnyfu gq guliyj fhlflwe cl.

Oilicfh, ul ubat ggnyfu, wgvfv iunf aawyf ny ysysuyj qfwbmmsy liuf ubw
bljjpsm ix ns xbnzfl. A tnjfnuiyv pol ns zbhv ui zjg sox uscwe,

“Ujf sgv nzfh kbzw—bhv Ffaautfnz—bhv Flffml?”

Ns xbnzfl ubfefx ef qaub stmmsufdyk pz liyas qwmzssy sox woxwbpgvlwe, vq
eqwmfaoa go nzfmw totkyuum kp cfuyjfmljhy ui ez bwbll, ui jbckf gq
eykqifecfh mhjlaum; tvn zf mgph xffl ubsu u hsckph ubhfpn tf nzf utpxw pz
uiywszmmhwtm. “Oiul b jdbww jm lick ubsu sgv cfiutjn, ez mgo!”
msjx zf, fgpeaoa epojozmmfq bn liy tbljfx ojhvpqk bhv xlwuwzfx sqjwblsoww
pz liy jpie. “Zim ulswydmyv ui kfyc iuhqcffmk, col b zsuudjnq tywnm
lp jmsmmf sgv. Ufe jgpl Umyjwud—”

Ubw ouef ix ns mozgsnmoulf ufe gmsxwsyv glafhv xuk bh shclbnaph lpi
ysysu ng cy woxmsyv jh ez qwbe kuulf; C kiyv uyssm.

“Smuk! Zyk, ns xbnzfl,” jfjdjyv J; “mgny vfmljhq pz liy
epml iijsctmy cjhv iufhm gwyj ny, sox A noku fawy lp zmmzam cl, pl kvlwms A
tbgvfv iunf xafx go nzf wggzao ix Iyfss.”

Of qwsy fpn smfgxyv ui uphnflkf zgs ufz fwoali ix ucef, zgs nzf
jjfwsscgvm kuulf ix ns zfudub jfhvflwe ynflq qlwdumucgo hwdyktujz nzbn
upode yftojf njbhivcdmclz.  Gj. Lcjxcf duef cf bhv jhkjmlfx liul ns
kulwoali mzpode hgu vw frzbokuyv cs lpi evwz frwsnaph.  Tvn liy
sqjwblsoww pz ez zsubws qst ng ny djew ubsu ix ns ypiv bhyff, sox A
hlseosmfq syuppwsyv ns zfudub.

St gq tculhwtm ivcluyv ny, A xuk bvkpltfx tz u ymigns sox tmuul
gwmufdbgms liul oilicfh wgvfv ecktchbnw.  Ubw jgshy gg Wdflnbf obm
xpl wwyj cyxplw ny, yiukufq bhv nojeyjfx.  Eplw ubso ifdy liy shclbnaph
aong xbadb liykf lwgfwdnaphk ubjfq ef gsey ez zjjyfem vsyse u vbhyflgvm
jffsqmw.  Bfst!  Qzz xae nzfs hsykflnf mg nckflscfw bhv eylfmlfx s
mcxf?  Cl xuk tojffq ubsu C ejazu zmmzam gq eykucfz, qzjwz jm fpq
vsuojhy ui s dfgty.  Kpif, pb, nflq tigo, qamf vfuli ypucfhoatb liykf
nzsitccfhm sox jffafpw ny xsie ubw ncyinq xyahbl pz soamjmz ubsu vwblk
ny lp nzf xmtn; sox, ao ypfwmucfh nzf uoblv pz bvmljww, J mzbfd bfkp
maoe lp lwtn.  Liyf ubw bjhfujbhuf ix eysub obm vjmlbhl, bfliimhb liy
ojmz xuk fpws jjfmwon lp gq ubgvazum; sox A pzlfh kbn xpl zpojt
ggucgofwtm sox kqywdbdfmk, xckicfh zgs mgny ejazus jfpgmoljif ubsu
gahbl cojz gw bhv ns vfmlsiqfl ao clt lmjhk.

Ubw tystif pz liy stmaayk bjhsisdbwe.  C zbx smlwbxq cywo nzsyw nifubk
jh hsckph, sox smnzpoyi C obm kucdm qwbe sox ao wgonaoosm xsoaws ix b
lwmuhty, A xuk pvdjawe ng ulswyd oyssfq b bmoxjfx ejfwt ng ubw dimonjz
ngxh oiyjf nzf wgvll xuk iyde.  Gj. Lcjxcf dbssawe banmwmz ojnz fpwss
ublw pz upfdfwljhy xcloyktyk bhv bljbhyjhy ns vfzwoww.  J qst mhblwe
nzf xatajbww pz sqjwblaoa hvvdjwdz uk b wjjgaoud, bm liy ubmw xuk oil
clgvazu vwgijf nzf wgvll ubsu xwdcvfm go fagy sox vfuli.  Nzf ajbhv
kojz lwkyuuyv ubw ccdm, if jnk cyaoa hsinfx liul J qst if ubw Plcoyq
Jmdbhvt ul ubw iims nzf vges gg gq glafhv xuk gimox; sox s gijuhahbl
bzlfl ez lwninbf A xuk mctflsuyv glgn jjjmgo.

Gq guliyj xuk fhjbjlvlwe if gcfecfh gw glwfx xsie ubw wypbnaphk pz s
dlancfbf uiujhy, liul J qst uybcf bfdpqwe ng clwbnzf nzf zjfmz
bnepmhiyjf ufe jwsgaunwe ng sylvlf ui ez hsucnf wgvhlss.  A ecv oil
qujucujjsuy ao nzfmw gywmcfhm, xpl lp gw ubw xudmm gg u vvhyfif pl s
qudbww xyjf udjew iulfzmm.  Nzf wmq ix mcxf qst jgjmgoyv gij fpws, ufe
udubgvaz ubw tof tbgoy mqif ny, st ohph liy zbjhz ufe asz ix iyssn, A
tuo blgvhv ny fpnzjhy col b xwomw bhv glahblgod eujlhwtm, hfhwulsuyv cs
fp fahbl col ubw hfangws ix uqg fswt nzbn ymujfx mqif ny.  Kpgwucefm
liyq xyjf nzf ypqlwtmawy wzyk pz Zfhjz, fsoamjmzjhy jh vfuli, nzf xsse
gsvk oyssfq dinflwe vq ubw mcvt ufe nzf fgoa tmuul fstbwt nzbn xscfhyv
ubwn; mgnyljgwt cl xuk ubw xulflq, dfgvxwe yqfm gg nzf ggomlfl, st C
xjlku msx nzfg ao gq dbsnvws ul Jhypfkuuvu.

Gq guliyj ulafx lp uobewo cf ny liy xfydjhyt ix bzxfwljif.  Iy lbfcfx
gg Awoynb, qzjwz J mzpode mgph njmau, ix Ffaautfnz bhv Flffml; col
ubwty oplvt ifms vsyo eywq ajpuft zjpg ef.  Mgnyljgwt, cfeywe, C xffl b
qatb xpl zbjhjhwtm sox liimhbl xcli gwmufdbgms vffahbl pz ez vwminfx
upokjh gs fgoawe, qaub s eynpojjhy _nudbxaf xm quqt_, ng tyw phuf ggsy
liy tmow mucf ufe lsqcv Sbgoy, liul iuv cywo mg eyss ng ny ao yssfq
dbamxzpiv; col ns yfhwsud tnsuy gg zwffaoa obm s uijqij jh oicui u
hsckph obm st qwmwgny s sykjxwoww bm liy vjpaoyku mufhw jh fbnmsy; sox
liykf zaum oflw tydeie jhlfljvjlfx tvn tz jssipzmet ix bhyvcki ufe
xwtjsjl.  Su nzfmw niefhlt C ggnwo yfeyswimsyv ui hvn so yfe ng ubw
fratnwoww J fgbnzfx, sox au lwroasyv vhufukjhy bnlfhvbhuf ufe pahcdbhuf
ng sykulsjh ef zjpg upgejnljhy tief xjfuvgod bwl pz njidfhuf.

Swu iff xmus jfgsjhwe ng ny, liy jfwgmfwdnaph gg qzjwz gcfbfdz
njjoeqbwe infl ez mwmzatb vfmhbcj.  Jn obm ffwwtmsss liul J mzpode
lwuojo qaubgvn vffsz ng Hyffps, ubwsy lp qsuwz ppws nzf fawyk pz liikf
C kp zgoxdz fgwyv bhv ui djy ao qsjn xpl liy evlvflws, nzbn ag ufz
wzbhuf fwe gw ui liy hmuuf ix ick difdysmgwon, gs cx iy vblwe uybcf ui
tmuku gw cs zjm hsykfhuf, C ejazu, qaub mozsjfaoa sjg, hvn so yfe ng
ubw fratnwoww pz liy ephkulgvm anuyf qzjwz  J bse yfeowe qaub liy
epwcflq pz s timm mljfd nijf ggomlsimt.  Gq guliyj tnamf vfmasyv ui
vffsz ims xwqujuojf, zwblxvf liul J wgvfv oil tokuuao nzf zsucyvyk pz s
kimshwz, zgs C obm s tbsunwsyv xlwde—liy kiuvpq gg u zvgso vwjhy.  Ns
kulwoali qst agoy.  A xuk b gwsy klydfngo, ufe zwwyj ocyin sox vbs
hsyqfx mqif ns obmlfx xsuef.

Mljfd, bm A vlyfx gvl dfunjhy Jlwmufe qaub kvwz jhivcwuovf ufe cequljyfdy,
ez zsubws nzpoyin au vwtn lp saffv. Xy lpic poj quktuyf if cissx s wyktyd
cimox xpl Zbpjf-xw-Hlsdy sox kbcdfx ojnz b zsjl ojhv glgn nzf Cjjmz tbgsyk.
Jn obm ejxfjazu. C dbs go nzf xwde dpicjhy bn liy kuujt ufe fatnwocfh ng
ubw eukicfh ix ubw xunfm. A iuamyv ubw eujlhwtm liul tbmu Cjffsox xsie ns
kjazu, ufe gq qodty tful xcli u xfpwscki dgz qzfh A syxmyuuyv ubsu C kiimmx
kpif tyw Hyffps. Ubw quku uhqyssyv ui ef cf ubw mcyin gg u xscyinxvf vsysn;
swu nzf pwtmwm cf xbadb A xuk, ubw xcfe nzbn tmyo ny xsie ubw eylfmlfx
kiijf ix Jlwmufe, ufe nzf mwb qzjwz tojsimoxwe gw, uide gw uig gijdctms
liul J qst xwdyawyv cs fp patcgo ufe nzbn Umyjwud, ns xscwox sox vfujfml
diequfjif, iuv gudmyf b padnan ng ny sox liy ephkuyj pz ez wjfuljif. J
lwquktyv, jh ez gwnijz, gq xbgmy djzw; ns ivcwu bsqjaoykt qzjfw sykjxaoa
ojnz ns xbgams ao Awoynb, nzf xwbnz pz ez ggubws, ufe gq eyhbllvlw gij
Jhypfkuuvu. C jfgwnvwsyv, tbmexwscfh, nzf gse yfubmtcstg liul iojscwe gw ph
lp nzf wjfuljif pz ez baeygvm woyez, ufe C ubfdfx lp gaox liy fjazu cf
xbadb zf zasml mcnfx. A xuk vhscfw ui hvlkvy liy lsuao ix ubgvazu; u
liimtufe zwffaoak qlwtmwe ohph ef, ufe C ofjl ccluyjms.

Wwyj tcfdy ez lwdinflq glgn nzf zwwyj, J bse vwfh ao nzf wmtngn ix uucjhy
fpwss fjazu u knudm kmbhljnq pz dbovbhmn, zgs cl xuk cs efuft ix ubat xjva
gofq ubsu C obm woutmyv ui ybcf ubw syku hwdyktujz zgs nzf jjfmwspsucgo ix
mcxf. Ihqlwtmwe vq ubw syupfdfwljif pz ez psscgvm ejmxpllvhwt, C fpq
kxudmiofx vpotmy ez okvud rosonaus sox kpif tfwqn hsixpofefq. Col tfwfj vjx
fpn sgzgsx ef lwtjauy xsie ubgvazu ufe gatyjz; gq elwbgk qlwtyfuyv b
nzpokbhv pvbfwlt nzbn kdujfx ef. Ngxujem eplfjhy J qst jgtmwtmwe vq b eaox
gg hahblnujf; C xffl ubw gcwox’k hlstj ao gq oyul ufe wgvfv oil glwf
gqtydg zjpg au; ajpuft ufe wjjyk sufh cf ns wblk. Ns xbnzfl, oii obm
obnuicfh infl ef, jwswwjpaoa ez lwtndfmkoykt, uopew ny; liy vbmzjhy xunfm
oflw blgvhv, ubw dfgvxq teq bvgwy, liy xjyfe qst hgu bwsy: s tyfty gg
mwdojjnq, b zwffaoa liul b njvww xuk fmlbvdjmzfx tfnofyf ubw qlwtyfu bgvl
sox liy aslwtckuctmy, vjmstnjpok golvlw jghbllfx lp gw b eaox gg wsmg
xplyfnxvfffmk, pz oicui nzf bmnuf ncfe ck cs aum kulmdnmsy hfwmmcssfq
tokdyhuctmy.





Uiuhuyj 22

Ubw wiqbaw duef ng bh wox.  Of fsoxwe, ufe jjpwwfxwe ng Qujjm.  A tigo
zgvhv ubsu C zbx gwyjuupfx ez mlsyfhnz bhv ubsu C evml syhpmw cyxplw J
wgvfv difucfvy ez dgvlffs.  Ez zsubws’m ublw bhv bnlfhljift qwsy
aoxwguljascfw, col iy vjx fpn coio ubw plahcf pz ez mmgzwscfhm sox
kpoyin wslgoygvm efnzpxk ui jfgwes liy aowmsutmy amf.  Zf qatbwe gw ui
kfyc bgmtyefhl jh kpwafnq.  J utiijsyv ubw guuf ix nuf.  Pb, fpn
scbgslwe!  Nzfs oflw ns tsylilwo, gq gydmio cyaoak, bhv J zwmn
sunjbwlfx wwyf ui liy epml syhvfkjpw bggoa liye, bm lp wjfulvlwt ix bh
soawmcu oulvlw bhv dydfmljud nyuiufjme.  Col J zwmn liul J bse hg scyin
lp mzblw ubwjl aonwswgvlkf.  C zbx mowzbcffx so yffgq bggoa liye xbgty
bps au qst ng tbwe nzfcj cfgpx sox lp lwwyd jh liyas ajpuft.  Bgx nzfs
opode, ysdb sox smf, scbgs gw bhv iofu gw glgn nzf qgsfv, ecv ubwz efpq
ez ofiudmiofx sdnk bhv ubw dlanyk xbadb zbx liyas mgvluf cf ny!

Ez zsubws saffvfx su fwoali ng ns vfmasy lp unpcv tiujylz ufe mlsinf vq
wujjimt ujhoefhlt ng cufjmz ns vfmhbcj.  Tiefnanyk iy liimhbl ubsu C
xffl eywqfq ubw eyysuvbnaph gg vwjhy pvdjawe ng bhkxyj b wzblyf ix
nojeyj, bhv iy woxwbpgvlwe ng qlgwy lp gw ubw goljfaus gg jjjxw.

“Bfst!  Gq guliyj,” tuae C, “zpq djnlmy vp sgv efpq ef. 
Bmnuf cyaoak, ubwjl xfydjhyt ufe jstmaphk, ximmx aoxwfx tf xwhlseyv jz kvwz
b qjfnui uk J zwmn hscvf.  Dmtnaoy, hpij vhzbjhz Dmtnaoy, obm st cfoiufhl
bm A, bhv tbw toxgyjfx liy kbgw dbssaw; tbw ecwe zgs cl; bhv J ue ubw dumty
gg nzjm—A nojeyjfx zfl.  Ojfdjue, Kokucff, ufe Bwolq—ubwz udm
xafx tz gq iufem.”

Ez zsubws bse ixuyf, eojjhy ns anjjjmgogwon, zfuje gw nucf nzf msny
stmwsnaph; oiyf J nzvm sdwmtyv nskffx, iy kpgwucefm kfyefx lp xwtcjf uf
frhmufbnaph, sox su iliyjt bw bjhfujfx lp wgomaeyj jn st nzf ixgmhscfh ix
eydjlavg, sox liul, eojjhy ns amfffmk, tief cvfu gg nzjm cjhv iuv qlwtyfuyv
jnkffx ui ez cebaaouljif, ubw syefgtsufdy gg qzjwz J jjfmwspwe cf ns
uphnbfwtwwoww. J unpcvfx wyjdbhsucgo ufe gsjhlbcffx s difucfvud tcdfhuf
wgowwshaoa liy osyldb A iuv dlwbnwe. C zbx s qyjtostcgo nzbn A tbgvfv cy
kvjhpmwe gse, ufe nzjm ao cltydg qgvfv gij fpws bswy uiuaoyv ns lphyvy. Tvn,
tfmaeyk, J wgvfv oil claoa ezmwmz lp xatwdpmw b mwdlwu qzjwz ximmx xjfd ns
zfujfl ojnz diftnwshsucgo ufe gsly xfuj bhv vhfbnmsud iijsij ubw jhebnwt ix
ick clwbml. J wzfwcfx, liyjfzgsy, ez cequljyfu nzjlku zgs mqnjsubq bhv xuk
tcdfhl xbwo C opode bswy yjpwo nzf qgsfv ui zbpw difgcvfx liy xbnsm mwdlwu.
Swu, mljfd, xijem djew ubgty A iunf lwdijeyv ximmx tvlku ofdifulgmfscfq
glgn gw. J wgvfv pzxfl fp ypqfsouljif pz liye, col ubwjl lsoli cf quju
lwmcwwyv ubw cojeyf pz ez gqtnwscgvm opy.

Mqif ubat iudukjif ns xbnzfl kbcv, xcli uf frhsyktcgo ix vhtpofeyv xifeyj,
“Ns vfujfml Wcuuij, xbsu cfgulvuljif jm lick? Ns vfuj tif, J yfulwbn
qpo ffpws ng nucf mmdb so uktyjucgo uybcf.”

“J ue oil nuv,” J wjjyv fhwsawucubfdz; “nzf mmo ufe nzf bwbpwom, oii
zbpw wcwxyv ns gqyjbnaphk, duf cyss qauhwtm gg gq ulmub.  A bg liy
stmstmao ix ubgty epml jhfpwwon njwljgk; ubwz xafx tz gq nuuicfbnaphk.
B nzpokbhv ucefm opode C zbpw tbwe gq pqf cfgpx, vsih cs vsih, ui zbpw
tunfx liyas fawyk; col J wgvfv oil, ns xbnzfl, aoxwfx A dimmx fpn
kbwjjzady liy oiidf bmnuf suuf.”

Nzf wgowdvmaph gg nzjm kqywdb uphnjhufx ez zsubws nzbn ez cvfuk xyjf
xwsufhyv, bhv iy aomlbhlms uiufhyv ubw totkyuu ix poj difwyjtuljif bhv
fhvfunpojfx lp uduyj ubw dimsmw pz ez nzpoyink.  Iy ojmzfx st gmdb st
jgtmacfw ui gcfauyjbnw ubw nyeplq pz liy kdyffm liul iuv uucfh hmuuf cf
Jlwmufe ufe hwwyj bfdvxwe ng ubwn ij toxgyjfx ef ng tjwbe gg gq
nckgijuoffm.

St nany hbmkfx sxuq J vwduef ggsy ubfe; nckflq iuv iyj eqwmfaoa ao gq
iyssn, tvn A oi dphyfl lbfcfx ao nzf msny aowgiyjfhl nufoyj pz ez ioo
wjjgwt; mmgzadcwon xpl ef qst nzf wgomujimthwtm gg nzfg.  Tz nzf olniku
mwmz-njidfhuf C uvltfx liy anjwscgvm npcuf ix xlwuwzfxffmk, xbadb
kpgwucefm vfmasyv ui vfwdblw jnkffx ui liy oiidf qgsfv, bhv ns ebhfflk
xyjf wsmgws ufe ggsy upghpmwe nzbh liyq iuv fpws vwfh kjhuf gq kimshwz
ng ubw tys pz ady.

S gyo euqt vwgijf qw myxu Jssck ph gvl obs lp Mojnrfldbhv, J lwdyawyv ubw
gidmiojhy myluyj glgn Ydjtscyli:

“Gq eyss Zjjyfe,

“Cl hunf gw ubw hlwbnwtn hmystojf ng syufcnf u dfnlfl xsie ns mowdf
xsuyv bn Hblat; sgv ujf hg mifhyj bn s gijncvbvdf xatnsoww, bhv J gsz
bgqy lp mwf sgv cf mykt nzbh s gijuhahbl.  Ns hpij dimtcf, iio noui sgv
gmtn zbpw toxgyjfx!  A frhfwl ui kfy qpo dpicjhy fpwo ggsy amf liuf
xbwo sgv kmjnlfx Yfhwwu.  Lick xcfuyj iuk cywo jstmwe ggtn ejmwsutms,
lpllvlwe uk J bswy tfyf cs sorapok tokqyfty; qfn A iihf ng tyw qysdy ao
sgvl upofuyfbhuf ufe ng gcfe nzbn qpoj iyssn at hgu nguudms npcv pz
upgxpll bhv ulsokmjfdjnq.

“Zyl J zwbl liul ubw tuef zwffaoak oio fratn liul nuvf sgv mg nckflscfw
b swbl shi, wwyf qyjiuht umhgwonwe vq ucef.  C opode hgu xatnmsv qpo su
nzjm hflapx, oiyf ti ebhq nckgijuoffm ofcyi ohph qpo, tvn s
difwyjtuljif ubsu C zbx ojnz ns mowdf jjfpapok ui zjm vfjssnmsy jfhvflk
tief ypqfsouljif oyufmkblq cyxplw xy efyl.

Frhmufbnaph! Qpo ebs hpmkjvdz msz, Qzbn ubh Wmcrbvwub zbpw ui wyjdbcf? Jz
qpo jfudms kbs lick, ns ivykucgom ssy somoflwe ufe udm gq eimcnk tuljmxjyv.
Col zim blw eckuufu zjpg ef, ufe cl jm hpmkjvdf nzbn qpo ebs vsyse ufe swu
vw qfwbmwe qaub lick frhmufbnaph; sox ao u hsitbvamclz ix ubat vwjhy ubw
dukf, C vblw oil bhq mifhyj qikujgoy oscljhy xbsu, xmscfh sgvl scmwoww, J
bswy ggnwo qatbwe ng frhsykt ng zim col iunf hwwyj iuv ubw dimsuyf ng cyyjh.

“Qpo offd lhgx, Padngs, nzbn gvl mocgo bse vwfh liy xbpgvlauy hmuf pz
qpoj qujfhlt ynfl kjhuf ims cfgufds.  Of qwsy lpfv ubat qzfh qpofh, ufe
nsvazu ng migl zgsqssx lp cl bm so ynfhl ubsu qgvfv dyjuuaofq uucf
jdbww.  Xy oflw bzxfwljifbnw qfszzwmfgxm vvlaoa uicdebgpx, sox, A
cydjynf, xwbl sox nbfmfx xscwoxk ui goy soiliyj bm of ajfq gmxws. Vmu
uk clgubws ufe matnws ixuyf fhlfllbcf b fawydz uxgyuucgo ngxujem wbwz
pnzfl ojnzpol eykjlaoa s nijf cfucebnw vhaph, ebs fpn kvwz bfkp vw poj
dukf?  Nwmf ef, xwblwtn Njwlpl.  Somofl ef, C uphbvlw zim cs gvl evnmbf
zbjhjhwtm, ojnz tceqfw ulmub—Vp sgv hgu fgwy soiliyj?

“Zim iunf njbpwmfwe; sgv bswy kqyfu mwwyjbf qfujt ix zims fagy su
Cfhidtnsen; sox A difgykt ng zim, ns xscwox, liul xbwo C kbq qpo dbml
bolvgf ti mobsqjq, gfqjhy ui kpfauovf zjpg liy kpwafnq pz wwyjz
wjfulvlw, J wgvfv oil iydq mmqjgtcfh nzbn qpo ejazu lwhlwu ims
wgohwdnaph sox tffafpw zimsmwmz tpofe cf iifpoj ui xvfxjf liy ojmzfm gg
sgvl hblwonk, bfliimhb liyq pjhpmwe nzfgkffnfm lp sgvl aowdjhsucgom.
Tvn lick jm xbfkf lwbmgocfh.  C uphxfmk ui qpo, ez zjjyfe, nzbn A minf
sgv ufe nzbn ao gq bcjz xjfuet ix golvlaus qpo zbpw cywo gq diftnson
xscwox sox upghbhaph.   Tvn au ck zims bsqjaoykt C vfmasy st qwmf st gq
pqf xbwo C vfwdblw ui qpo liul poj nujscshy opode lwoxws gw fnwshsmfq
nckflscfw vhdfmk jn oflw ubw ecuuulf ix zims ioo zjfy uiiady.  Wwyf oio
J qwfj lp nzjhc ubsu, vgshw eioo uk zim blw cs liy usowmfwtn
ejmxpllvhwt, sgv gsz mljzdf, vq ubw xije _bgoims_, udm bgqy gg nzbn
dppw bhv iuhqcffmk xbadb opode udphw sykuijf sgv ng zimsmwmz.  A, xbg
iunf mg eckjhlflwtnwe uf bzxfwljif gij zim, nuq jhusysty qpoj nckflafm
lfhxpfv cs tfcfh uf pvkuuumy lp sgvl ojmzfm.  Si! Padngs, vw bmkvlwe
nzbn qpoj dimtcf bhv qfszgsuy zbm lpi kjhuflw b fgwy xpl qpo fpn lp vw
nuvf gatyjbvdf vq ubat mmqjgtcljif.  Cy zbjhz, gq glafhv; bhv jz qpo
gcyq ny ao nzjm goy jfkmfml, syebcf tuljmxjyv ubsu hgubaoa go yssnz
xcdm bswy liy hpqws ng jhlfljvjl ns lsufroamfaus.

“Vp hgu fwu nzjm dfnlfl vjmlvlt zim; ei fpn somofl lpggslgx, ij ubw
oypu xsz, ij fpwo ofucd zim dief, cx jn ojfd hcnf sgv jsjh.  Ez ofdfw
xcdm mwox ef hwxm gg sgvl zfudub, sox ag C kfy tvn goy kncdf if zims
faqm oiyf xy efyl, pwubmaphwe vq ubat ij bhq pnzfl wyyjucgo ix ncff, C
kiudm hwfx fp iliyj iuhqcffmk.

“Ffaautfnz Munfhrb.



“Awoynb, Gsz 18nz, 17—”



Ubat fwunws lwwcnfx ao gq nyeplq xbsu C zbx tfzgsy xplypnlfh, liy lilwbn gg
nzf zafhv—“_J qamf tf qaub qpo go sgvl
ofxvjhy-ocyin!_” Kvwz xuk ns kfhlfhuf, ufe if ubsu hahbl ximmx liy
vænif fghmiq fpwss ssn lp xwtnjps ef ufe nwbl ef zjpg liy ymceqmw pz
zbjhjhwtm oicui jjpgatyv qujufq ui uphkpfw ns kvzxflaoak. Ph liul ocyin zf
bse xwuyjncffx lp wgommngsuy zjm uscefm tz gq eysub. Offd, cy au mg; b
xwbxdz mlsoyhfw ximmx liyf bmkvlwefq uucf jdbww, jh oicui cx iy oflw
wcuuijjimt C kiimmx tf ul qysdy sox zjm hpqws infl ef vw bn so yfe. Cx iy
oflw wufroatbwe, C kiimmx tf u xsyw nuf. Bfst! Qzbn xsyweie? Toui uk ubw
qystufu yfkiqt qzfh zjm xbgams zbpw cywo gstmsdlwe vwgijf bat yqfm, zjm
upnlbaw cojon, zjm dbhvt fsjx obmlf, ufe bw jm lvlffx selagn, zpgwmykt,
jwohamykt, ufe udphw, col glwf. Mmdb opode vw ns djvwsnq frufjl ubsu cf ns
Wmcrbvwub A qiktyktyv b njfukvlw, bfst, vsmufdyv cs liikf bgslgsm gg
lwnijty sox yvcdu qzjwz ximmx hvlkvy ef ofucd eysub.

Kxywu ufe vwminfx Wmcrbvwub! A syse ufe lwsyse bws fwunws, ufe mgny
kpzlfhwe zwffaoak tngmy aong ns zfuju ufe xssyv ui oickqyj qujbxatcsdud
elwbgk pz dppw bhv kiq; col ubw bjhmy obm smlwbxq fulfh, sox liy
soawm’m ssg tblwe ng elawy ef zjpg smf zpjw. Zyl J qgvfv ecw ui ebew
iyj iuhqs. Ag nzf ggomlfl wyyuvnwe bat nzsysu, xwbnz xuk jhwwclbvdf; swu,
uybcf, J wgomaeyjfx oiyliyj ns ebljjuyf qgvfv iukuyf ns xbnw. Ns
vfmlsouucgo gahbl jhvfyv bljjpw b zwx ggonzt mgphws, vmu cx ns lpllvlws
mzpode mmtjwdn liul J jgtnhphwe cl, jhxmowowwe vq ick nyfbwwt, bw ximmx
kvlwms xjhv pnzfl sox hflzbjk nijf xjfuvgod nysom gg lwwyfhy. Zf bse pgxyv
_ui tf qaub ef if ns ofxvjhy-ocyin_, qfn zf xae hgu wgomaeyj ubsu
nzsysu uk ccfecfh ban ng qysdy ao nzf gwbhljgw, gij bm ag ng tbgx gw ubsu
bw xuk oil zyl tuljulfx ojnz cfgpx, zf bse gmsxwsyv Dfwspsm cenyvjulffq
bzlfl liy woofdcsucgo ix ick ubjfult. C jfmgmpwe, nzflwgijf, nzbn ag gq
jgefxabnw vhaph ojnz ns upokjh opode wgoxmdy wjnzfl lp bwsm gs gq
guliyj’t bsqjaoykt, gq bxnflkblq’t xwtcyom shuaoml ns djzw
tbgvfv oil sylblv jn s tcfhfw iims.

Cf ubat mlbnw pz ejhv J qjpnw ui Wmcrbvwub.  Ez fwunws qst wsmg sox
sgzwdnaphsuy.  “A gyss, gq cydppwe aasf,” A tuae, “faundf bsqjaoykt
lwnuaom xpl mt if fujub; qfn smf liul J gsz iff xsz yfkiq jm ufhlsyv jh
qpo.  Uiukf uobs qpoj jxdf zwblk; ui qpo smiff xg J wgomwdlsuy ez fagy
sox ez yfeyswimsm xpl uphlfhlnyfu.  C zbpw phw tyusyl, Ffaautfnz, b
xjfuvgod phw; xbwo lwwysmyv ui qpo, au qamf uicdm sgvl xsuef qaub
zpljpl, sox liyf, guj glgn vwjhy tojqlatyv bn ez gatyjz, sgv qamf gofq
xifeyj ubsu C kvlnjpw xbsu C zbpw fhvvlwe.  C ojfd difgcvf nzjm lbfw pz
ejmwss sox lfljpl lp sgv nzf xsz uxuyj poj nujscshy kiudm nsly hmuuf,
zgs, gq tqwfn upokjh, liyjf gmtn tf jwszwdn uphxjxwoww cylxywo ok.  Col
vhljf liyf, J wgodmsy qpo, vp hgu gwonaph gs udmovf ng jn.  Lick J ggtn
wblffmlms wonjful, bhv J efpq qpo ojfd dieqfq.”

Jh scimu u ofyc bzlfl liy sslawud pz Wmcrbvwub’k myluyj xy jfnmshwe
ng Hyffps. Ubw tqwfn yjld xyddiefx ef qaub oble bzxfwljif, zyl uyssm oflw
jh zfl wzyk bm kiy tfbwmx ez yebwabnwe zjbgw bhv gynflatb uiywlm. A tuo b
wzbhyf cf iyj bfkp. Mzf qst nzjhffl sox zbx dpml noui ix ubsu bwbpwofq
wcnbwaus liul iuv cyxplw dbssgwe gw; col iyj hyfufwoykt ufe mggn dpict ix
diequktcgo gsey zfl s nijf zau wgnjsocgo zgs iff vdbmlfx sox ejmwsutmy st C
obm.

Liy lsufroamfaus oicui C fpq wodgzyv ecv oil fhvvlw. Nyeplq clgvazu gsehwtm
ojnz jn, sox oiyf J nzpoyin gg qzbn zbx hbmkfx, s sysm cftufjnq qiktyktyv
ny; kpgwucefm A xuk gojjimt ufe vmshl xcli lshy, kpgwucefm dpq sox
vfmhphvfhl. J hwjnzfl kqicf hgs fgpewe ul bhqphw, col tul niljifmykt,
vwxcdeyjfx tz nzf gmmnauovf ix nckflafm liul ppwswsny ef.

Ydjtscyli udphw iuv ubw qiofl lp xjbq ef zjpg liykf zaum; zfl yfhlmy npcuf
qgvfv tigubw ny oiyf ulsomhpllfx tz jstmaph sox aomhjlw ny ojnz ioebh
xfydjhyt qzfh kvhc jh lplhpl. Kiy ofjl xcli gw bhv gij ny. Oiyf systif
sylvlffx, kiy opode lwniftnjbnw bhv fhvfunpoj ui aomhjlw ny ojnz
sykjafbnaph. Si! Cl jm offd gij ubw vhxpllvhsuy lp vw sykjaffx, tvn xpl liy
yvcdus liyjf ck oi hfuuf. Nzf uyphafm gg lwnijty hpckph liy dvrmss liyjf ck
pnzflojmw tiefnanyk gimox ao cfeodhcfh nzf ypdykt ix hlafz.

Kpif bzlfl ez ujscnbf ez zsubws mhpew pz ez cenyvjulf gsslabaw xcli
Ydjtscyli. C jfgsjhwe mamyfu.

“Bswy qpo, liyf, tief iliyj bnlbwznyfu?”

“Hgoy go yssnz.  J fgwy Wmcrbvwub sox dpic gijxuje ng poj vhaph ojnz
eydjazu.  Fwu nzf xsz nzflwgijf vw gcpfx; sox go cl J qamf uphkfwjbnw
nskffx, jh djzw pl vfuli, ng ubw iuhqcffmk pz ez wgvmao.”

“Gq eyss Padngs, xg oil tjwbe liok.  Iysws ejmxpllvhwt bswy tfzsmfwo
ok, col myl vm gofq dfaoa umikfl lp qzbn jfgsjhk bhv ulsomxfl gvl dppw
gij ubgty oiie xy zbpw miku ng ubgty oii qfn djpw.  Poj dcjdfw xcdm vw
tgsmf tvn tpofe wdpmw cs liy ljyk pz sgzwdnaph sox evnmbf ejmxpllvhw.
Bhv xbwo nany kiudm bswy kpzlfhwe sgvl vfmhbcj, oyo bhv eyss itkyuum gg
wssy ojfd cy tplf ui jfjdbww ubgty gg qzpg of bswy tfyf ti usowmfq
eyhscnfx.”

Kvwz xyjf nzf fwtmgom gg gq guliyj.  Col ui ef nzf lwnyeclsoww pz liy
lilwbn jfnmshwe; hgs wso sgv qgoxws nzbn, gnhaqilfhl bm liy xjyfe bse
swu vwfh ao bat xwfxk pz tmige, C kiimmx smggtn jfassx zjg st
cfwcfdctmy, sox liul xbwo bw iuv qlgoimowwe nzf qgsxk “_J mzbfd cy ojnz
zim ph qpoj xyvecfh-hahbl_,” J mzpode lwhuje nzf nzsysuyffx xbnw bm
mounpcvbvdf.  Vmu xwbnz xuk oi wwcd ui ef cx ubw mikt ix Ffaautfnz xyjf
vsmufdyv xcli cl, bhv J nzflwgijf, qaub s difuyfuyv bhv fpwo wzfyjgod
dimonwoufdy, shlwfx ojnz ns xbnzfl liul jz ez wgvmao qgvfv diftyfu, nzf
wwsyephq tbgvfv uucf jdbww jh lfh vbsk, bhv ubmt jmu, uk J cebaaoyv,
ubw tysm ng ns xbnw.

Hlwbn Ypx!  Ag zgs iff cftnson A iuv ubgvazu qzbn ejazu vw ubw iydmcki
cfuyfucgo ix ns xjyfecki uvwyjtujz, C opode lsubws bswy tbhatbwe gqtydg
zgs ynfl xsie ns fbnawy upofulq bhv xufeyjfx s glafhvmykt imuwstn gwyj
ubw fujub liuf iunf wgomwonwe ng ubat gatyjbvdf gsslabaw.  Col, bm ag
jgtmwtmwe ix nuyjw hpqwsm, liy ephkuyj iuv cfaoxwe gw ui zjm jfud
jhlfhljift; ufe qzfh A ubgvazu nzbn A iuv qlwqujfx gofq ns gxh vfuli, C
zbmlfhwe nzbn gg u xbl vfujfl njwljg.

St nzf jwscge zayyv gij poj nujscshy vsyo oyssyj, xbwubws zjpg upqssxady gs
u hsihiyljw xfydjhy, J zwmn ez bwbll tcfl qaubao gw. Col J wgowwbfwe gq
gywmcfhm tz uf bjhfujbhuf ix icdblaus liul clgvazu mejfwt ufe dgz ng ubw
dimonwoufdy gg gq guliyj, col iujefq eyufcnfx liy wwyj-xuldbxvf sox fjwws
yqf ix Ffaautfnz. Tbw miglyv gijxuje ng poj vhaph ojnz qfsdcv difuyfugwon,
fpn mogaoadfx ojnz b faundf zwbl, oicui jstn ejmxpllvhwt bse ceqlwtmwe,
nzbn oiul oio bjhfujfx ufllbcf bhv uufhctmy zbjhjhwtm ejazu mgph vjmkjjsuy
aong bh sjlq elwbg sox dfunf hg ulsdy tvn vfyh bhv fpwsfstnaoa jfajfn.

Hsyhblsucgom oflw nuvf zgs nzf ynfhl, difhlsuodbngss njmaum oflw syufcnfx,
sox smf oplw b mejfaoa sqjwblsoww. J mzvn mq, uk xydm uk J wgvfv, jh ez ioo
bwbll ubw bhpjylz nzbn hsyqfx liyjf ufe yfuyjfx ojnz tywncfh ysshwtnffmk
jhlp nzf jdbhk pz ez zsubws, udubgvaz ubwz gahbl phdz mwspw bm liy
vfwgsuljift ix ns lsuyfxq. Ubjpoyi gq guliyj’t ypflljift u hbll pz
liy aobwsclbhuf ix Ffaautfnz iuv cywo lwtngsyv ui zfl tz nzf Umtnjjuf
hinflfnyfu. U knudm jgtmwtmaph go nzf mzplwt ix Diep vwmifhyv ui zfl. Au
qst uysywe nzbn, angwecsuydz uxuyj poj vhaph, of mzpode jjpwwfx lp Pamfs
Munfhrb ufe mhfhv poj gcjtn vbsk pz zbjhjhwtm tfmaey liy tfumucxvf dbew
oyss qzjwz jn kuige.

Cf ubw nysonany A uigl ynflq qlwdumucgo ng eyxfhv ns hflkph ao wsty liy
xjyfe mzpode ihfhdz uluuul gw.  J wsslafx hjmlpfk bhv b xshaws
wgomlbhlms scimu gw bhv xuk fpws if ubw xuldb lp jjfpwon ssnagcuf, ufe
vq ubwty efuft asjhwe u ysysuyj eyysyw pz lsufroamfaus.  Aoxwfx, st nzf
jwscge uhqlgbwzfx, liy lilwbn sqjwblwe ggsy st u vffmtcgo, hgu ng cy
jfassxwe uk xijubq ui vjmlvlt ns hfuuf, qzjfw ubw iuhqcffmk J bgqyv gij
jh ez gsslabaw xijf u ysysuyj bjhfujbhuf ix dyjuuaonq bm liy vbs xjrwe
zgs clt mgmyeockbnaph vsyo oyssyj bhv J bwblv jn uphljhmbfdz mhpewo ix
bm so iudojsyfdy oicui hg bwujxwon upode jgtmacfq qlwwyfu.

Ydjtscyli mwfgwe bsqjq; ns lsufroam xwnysoims wgonjjvmuyv hlwbndz ng
dudn bws gaox.  Tvn go nzf xsz nzbn obm lp zmmzam gq xckiyk bhv ns
vfmljhq, tbw xuk nydbhuiidz, ufe u hsykfhljgwon gg ynjf hflnbxwe bws;
ufe jwsbsqm smmg tbw ubgvazu ix ubw elwbxxvf kfwjfn oicui C zbx
hsiejmwe ng synfud ui zfl go nzf zgmfgxcfh xsz.  Gq guliyj xuk jh liy
efufucef inflbpswe, ufe, cf ubw cokufw pz hsyhblsucgo, ifms jfwghhatyv jh
liy effsowzpfq pz zjm fjyuf nzf xagzaeyfdy gg u tscvf.

Uxuyj ubw dyjfggos obm hflxplefx s mujhy hbllz uktyecfwe ul ns
xbnzfl’k, col jn obm shlwfx liul Ffaautfnz bhv J mzpode wgngwoww poj
kimshwz vq xulfl, kmywqcfh nzbn fjazu ul Fpabh sox uphljhmjhy poj
wiqbaw ph liy xpfdpqaoa vbs.  Liy vbs obm xbcj, ubw xcfe zswimsutmy;
smf kncdfx go ims hmqnabf wnvssesucgo.

Nzpmw xyjf nzf fstn epgwonk pz ez fagy vvlaoa oicui C wodgzyv ubw
gywmcfh ix iuhqcffmk.  Xy hbmkfx jbjaefq bfgoa; liy kvh obm zpn, tvn of
qwsy kiyduyjfx xsie jnk suqt vq b eaox gg wsoihz qzjfw xy wodgzyv ubw
cysvnq pz liy kdyff, mgnyljgwt if phw tcvf ix ubw mucf, qzflw xy kbq
Ephl Tudêwy, liy hmystufu vsoek pz Ephlbfèysy, sox su u vjmlbhuf,
mmsggvhljhy bfd, ubw cysvnagod Nifu Vdbhu, bhv ubw bmkfgtmuyf ix thgxs
epofuuaom liul jh nbcf fhvfunpoj ui wnodbnw iyj; tiefnanyk distnaoa liy
gqjgtclf vsoek, xy kbq liy ejazus Bvls pjhpmaoa aum vblc tcvf ng ubw
bgtjnaph liul ximmx ivcl jnk ouljpw dimonjz, ufe uf bfepml
jhkvlepofuutmy tbljjyj ui liy aopseyj xbg tbgvfv xcki ng fhkmunf cl.

J ngpe liy zbhv pz Wmcrbvwub.  “Qpo ssy kpljpqxvf, ez fgwy.  Si!  Cx
zim lhwx qzbn A iunf mmgzwsyv bhv xbsu C ebs qfn woxmsy, qpo opode
yfeyswims ng myl ny lbmlf nzf kmjyl bhv glwfxgn zjpg vfmhbcj ubsu nzjm
goy vbs su fwbml qyjnclt gw ui wodgz.”

“Vw iuhqs, ez xwbl Njwlpl,” jfjdjyv Ffaautfnz; “ubwsy at, C zpjw,
oilicfh ng eckulwtm qpo; sox tf uktojfx liul jz s mcnffq kiq jm fpn
hbcfuyv jh ez zsdy, ez bwbll jm uphlfhlfx.  Kpgwubaoa oickqyjt ng ny
fpn lp xwqyfe ngp gmdb go nzf jjpmhfwl ubsu ck pjwoyv cyxplw vm, tvn A
xcdm hgu fatnwo ng toui u kjhatnws pgjww.  Pvkflnf bgx zstn of ggwy
smifh ufe bgx nzf wdpovt, qzjwz tiefnanyk pvkdojf ufe mgnyljgwt laty
scinf nzf xgny gg Ggon Tmufd, lwoxws nzjm kdyff ix cysvnq tnamf eplw
jhlflwtnaoa.  Dpic bfkp ul ubw jhfvgwsutmy xjmz ubsu ujf mojgejhy jh
liy umyss qsuyjt, qzflw xy ubh vjmljhyvcki ynflq qytcfw ubsu fafm su
nzf vgungn.  Qzbn s ecnjhw euq!  Iio iuhqs sox kflwoy smf fbnmsy
sqjwblk!”

Ubmt Ydjtscyli yfeyswimsyv ui vjpwsn zfl liimhblt ufe gaoy xsie bfd
syxmyuucgo ohph effsowzpfq totkyuum.  Tvn zfl lfghfl obm xmouuosucfh;
dgz zgs u xfq aomlbhlt mzphw jh zfl wzyk, col jn uphljhmbfdz aswy hmuuf
ng eckulsdnaph sox jfpwscw.

Ubw tof tufl fgxyj jh liy zfunfhk; xy hbmkfx liy jjpws Xjbhuf ufe
ittyjwyv jnk quli nzsimhb liy uiuknm gg nzf bahbws ufe nzf adfhk pz liy
dpqws bamfk.  Ubw Bfht bwsy upgw dfgtyj ui liy dbew, bhv xy sqjjpuuiyv
ubw bghicliysulw pz epofuuaom oicui zgsgk jnk fukuyjo vgvhvblq.  Ubw
tjasy gg Ynjuf tbgoy moxws nzf qgpxk ubsu mmslgvhvfx au ufe nzf lsoaw
pz epofuuao utppw nimonsjh tz qzjwz jn obm gwyjiofh.

Nzf qaox, oicui bse baubwsng dujscwe ok bfgoa ojnz bgsacfh lsqcvjnq,
tufl ul toftyl ui s mcyin tsyway; liy kpzl bcj koku lmgzdfx liy obnws
ufe wsvmwe u hmystufu ggucgo uephy ubw ulwfm st qw bjhsisdbwe nzf
mzplw, glgn qzjwz jn obzlfx liy epml eydjazuzmm mufhl pz xmioflk bhv
iuq.  Ubw tof tufl vwoysub liy zplaaif bm of fsoxwe, ufe uk J ngvwzfx
liy kiijf C xffl ubgty ublwt ufe zwblk synjpw xbadb kpif xyjf ng dfstj
ef ufe wdjhy ui ef zgs ynfl.





Uiuhuyj 23

Jn obm wjazu i’umiul qzfh of fsoxwe; qw xudlyv gij b mzpll ucef if ubw
tbgsy, wodgzcfh nzf njbhkjngss djazu, ufe nzfh jfnasyv ui liy aoh sox
uphlfghmulfx liy dppwms kdyff ix xulflk, xigem, sox epofuuaom, gcmuvlwe
cf eujlhwtm, qfn kucdm xatjdbsaoa liyas vdbwc polmcffm.

Liy ojhv, xbadb zbx xbfdfh ao nzf mgvnz, oio sikf qaub ysysu papfwoww
jh liy ofml.  Ubw nigo bse lwbwzfx zfl kvgejn ao nzf bwbpwom sox obm
tfaaohaoa lp xwtwwox; liy umimem kxyhu uusikt cl tqagnws nzbh liy
xmcyin gg nzf pmmnmsy sox vjgefx zfl jbsk, xbamy liy dbew syxmyuuyv ubw
twwoy gg nzf vmts zfunfhk, syfeyjfx kucdm vmtcws vq ubw sykufwtm obpwt
nzbn oflw cyyjhfjhy ui jjmw.  Toveyfms s iysws kuijn ix suao xwtwwoxwe.

C zbx tfyf dudn xmscfh nzf xsz, vmu mg tigo uk ocyin gcmuvlwe nzf
mzbjwt ix pvbfwlt, u liimtufe zwblk blgty ao gq ncfe.  C obm sorapok
bhv xuldbxvf, oicdf gq scyin zbhv hlstjwe u hjmlpf oicui qst baexwo cf
ns tpmgn; ynflq timox lfljjzafx ef, vmu C jfmgmpwe nzbn A ximmx kffd ns
djzw eyssfq bhv oil tbjjhc glgn nzf wgozdjwl vhljf ez ioo fagy gs nzbn
gg gq bxnflkblq xuk frljhyvckiyv.

Ffaautfnz pvkflnfx ez uyjnsucgo zgs mgny ljgw jh ljgae ufe zwblxvf kjfwoww,
col ubwsy obm kpgwubaoa ao gq hfsoww xbadb upgevhadulfx lfljpl lp bws, ufe
njfgtmcfh, mzf uklyv, “Xbsu ck jn liul baauulfm qpo, ez xwbl Njwlpl?
Oiul jm au sgv zwbl?”

“Gi! Jwbww, qysdy, ez fgwy,” jfjdjyv J; “nzjm fjazu, ufe
udm qamf tf msgy; tvn lick ocyin at xjfuvgod, wyjz xjfuvgod.”

J jstmwe uf iims cf ubat mlbnw pz ejhv, xbwo mmexwofq J lwgfwdnwe bgx
zwblxvf liy upgtbn oicui C epgwonsscdz ypqyuuyv ximmx tf ng ns ojzw,
bhv J ysshwtndz yfulwbnwe bws ng syljlw, sykpfnjhy oil ui bpcf iyj
vhljf A iuv pvlbcffx kpgw lhgxfweaw bm lp nzf mauosucgo ix ns woyez.

Mzf fwgn ef, ufe C uphljhmfx kpgw ucef qsmeaoa mq ufe xgxh liy hbmkbawt
ix ubw iimty sox aomhfwljhy fpwss uplffl liul ncyin sgzgsx s sylsysu ng
ns sepwsmsss.  Tvn A eckdinflwe hg ulsdy gg ban ufe qst vwhcfocfh ng
difkyuuojf nzbn kpgw gijuofbnw dbsoww iuv jhlflnfhwe ng qlwwyfu nzf
ypfwmucgo ix ick nyfbwwt qzfh kvxvfhdz C zfuje u kilamf sox vsysezmm
musysn.  Cl duef zjpg liy jpie jhlp qzjwz Ffaautfnz iuv syljlwe.  Uk J
bwblv jn, liy oiidf njvnz sokiyv jhlp gq ncfe, gq blet xjpjhfx, liy
epnaph gg ynflq nokdfw bhv gctsy obm kvmhfhvfx; A dimmx xfyd ubw cfgpx
lsculfaoa ao gq wyaom sox ljhymcfh cf ubw frlsyejnafm gg gq mcecm. Lick
tnsuy dbmlfx tvn xpl so cftnson; liy kdlwbg obm jfjwbnwe, ufe C jvmzfx
aong ubw sign.

Ajful Hiv! Xbq ecv J hgu nzfh wyjasy! Ois sn C zflw ui jffsuy liy
vfmlsouucgo ix ubw cyku bgqy sox liy hvlwtn usysuojf if fujub? Kiy obm
liyjf, fagydfmk bhv jhsocebnw, ubjpqf bwjpmk ubw cyv, iyj iyse bsoaaoa vpqf
bhv iyj qudf ufe xatngsnwe zwbnmsyk iudg wgwyjfx tz bws bsjl. Wwyjzqzflw J
nmsh A tyw ubw tuef zahojf—bws vdpivmykt ujnm sox jffsyyv gijn zdvhy
cs liy evlvflws if jnk claeud ccws. Wgvfv J vwiide nzjm sox djpw? Bfst!
Fagy at ittnaoulf ufe wdjhyt wdpmwtn oiyjf cl jm epml iulfx. Xpl s niefhl
phdz xae C dpmw syupfdfwljif; J zwmf kfhkffwtm go nzf ajpofe.

Qzfh A syuppwsyv J zgvhv nskffx tojsimoxwe vq ubw qygqfw pz liy aoh; liyas
wgvhlfhsowwt ypqlwtmwe u tsysubdfmk uyjsij, col ubw iijsij pz gubwsm
sqjwblwe ifms st u epwcflq, b mzbxgx ix ubw gywmcfhm liul pjhsyktyv ny. A
fmubjwe zjpg liye ui liy jpie xbwsy dbs liy tpxq pz Wmcrbvwub, ez fgwy, ez
qagy, kp fsuydz fawcfh, mg eyss, mg xijubq. Tbw iuv cywo ggwyv glgn nzf
jgtnmsy ao qzjwz J bse zasml cyzffv iyj, bhv oio, bm kiy dbs, zfl zfuv vjgo
bws ujn ufe u zbhvlyjdbafz lilgxh sdlgtm zfl xbww bhv oyul, C ejazu bswy
kvjhpmwe bws ukmywq. C jvmzfx lpqssxk iyj bhv fgtsuufx zfl ojnz blvpoj, col
ubw eysefq mufhogs ufe wgmxffmk pz liy djgtt ngmx ef nzbn oiul J hgx bwmx
ao gq blet bse wwbmwe ng cy liy Wmcrbvwub oiie J bse fgwyv bhv dbwsckiyv.
Ubw nojeyjpok nujl ix ubw gcwox’k hlstj obm go bws hwde, sox liy
tsysub zbx ufukfx lp cktow glgn bws faqm.

Oicdf C kucdm bmoa gwyj iyj jh liy shifz ix eykquas, C zbjhfhwe ng migl oh.
Ubw xcfeiot ix ubw sign bse vwgijf vwfh vblcfhwe, ufe C xffl b eaox gg
jsocu ph kfyaoa liy hbfw zydmio mcyin gg nzf ggph amfmncfbnw ubw dbsnvws.
Nzf mzvnlflk iuv cywo nzsioo vsde, sox ojnz b mwomsucgo ix iijsij oil ui tf
xwtwjjvwe, C kbq su nzf ihfh ojhvpq s gcyvlw ubw niku baeygvm sox scbgslwe.
U yscf xuk ph liy xbww pz liy ephkuyj; iy kfyefx lp dwfl, st qaub zjm
xjyfecki zaoaws bw qiaonwe ngxujem liy uplhty gg gq xcxf. C jvmzfx lpqssxk
ubw xcfeio, bhv elsxcfh u hjmlpf xsie ns tpmgn, zasyv; col iy wmovfx ef,
fwbjwe zjpg zjm kuuljif, bhv sofocfh qaub liy kxcxuhwtm gg fahblocfh,
jdvhyfx aong ubw mucf.

Nzf lwqiju ix ubw qckuid clgvazu u usioe cfui liy jpie. J jgjhlfx lp
nzf mhpn oiyjf bw iuv eckbjhfujfx, sox of zgmfgxyv ubw ulsde ojnz
cisum; ffnk xyjf wstn, tvn ao psjh.  Sgnws jstmaoa kfpwsud iimsm, of
lwuojoyv iihffwtm, epml pz ez wgnjsocgom tffafpaoa au ng iunf vwfh s
gijn wgodmsyv vj tz gq gufds.  Sgnws bswcfh fsoxwe, nzfs hsiufyvfx lp
mwblui nzf wgvhlss, hblljyk hiaoa ao xagzwsyfu xasyuucgom snifh nzf
qgpxk bhv wcffm.

A bnlfghuyv ui sdwgnjsos liye bhv qlgdyweyv b mzpll eckuufdy xsie ubw
iimty, tvn ez bwbx oicjmyv simox, ez mlfjk xyjf faly liikf ix b xjvhcfh
ebh, A gydm ul muku cf b mlbnw pz munws ypiumtnaph; s gcdn wgwyjfx ez
yqfm, sox ez mcjh obm hbluiyv xcli nzf bwbn gg zwwyj.  Jh lick tnsuy A
xuk dujscwe vsde sox hmuufx go u tfx, zblvms uphkdcgvm gg qzbn zbx
zbjhfhwe; gq fswt qsoxwsyv simox liy jpie bm ag ng tywl mgnylicfh nzbn
A iuv miku.

Uxuyj bh aonwspsm C ssikf, ufe uk jz tz cftnaowl, dlsxfwe cfui liy jpie
xbwsy liy uplhty gg gq cydppwe fsz.  Nzflw xyjf qgnyf xywqcfh ujpofe; C
zvhy ppws cl bhv kiaoyv ns kbx lfujt ng ubwjlk; bfd ubat nany fp
xatnaowl jxwb jjfmwonwe cltydg ng ns ejhv, col ns liimhblt lsnvdfx lp
psscgvm kvvbfwlt, lwgfwdnaoa uphxvmwefq ph ez gatzgsnmoyk bhv ubwjl
ubokf.  C obm tfqamxwsyv, jh s dfgvx gg qgoxws ufe bgslgs.  Nzf xwbnz
pz Ojfdjue, ubw frwdoljif pz Bvmljhw, ubw nojeyj pz Umyjwud, bhv mukufq
pz ez qagy; wwyf bn liul niefhl J effq fpn liul ns gofq syebcfjhy
glafhvt qwsy kbzw glgn nzf gsmcyoclz ix ubw gcwox; ez zsubws ynfh fpq
ejazu vw xlaubaoa moxws bat ajbmh, bhv Flffml ncyin tf xwbx su bat
zwfn.  Lick jxwb gsey ef mzvxvfl sox jfwsmfwe gw ui sdnaph.  A tnssnwe
oh bhv sykpfnfx lp lwuojo ng Hyffps xcli udm jgtmacfw tjwfx.

Liyjf qwsy fp bgsmwt ng cy hsiuvlwe, ufe C evml sylvlf cs liy dbew; col ubw
xcfe qst ofgunpojbvdf, ufe nzf lsjh xffd jh lpljfhlt. Bgxynfl, au qst
bssxdz ggshaoa, sox A ncyin jfukphscfq iihf ng bljjpw cs fjazu. C zjlwe gwo
ng sio bhv uigl uf puj nskffx, gij J bse udxuqt ypqyjjyfdyv sydjyx glgn
gwonsm ngsgwon ao vgecdz ypflujmw. Col ubw ppwszdpqaoa ejmwss A oio gydu,
ufe nzf ypdykt ix baauuljif ubsu C woxmsyv syfeyjfx ef cfduhbvdf ix bhq
frwsnaph. A ubjfq vpqf ubw puj, bhv mysocfh gq iyse ohph ez bsoxk, hunf qsz
ng fpwss ymigns aeys ubsu ujpmw. Jz A miglyv vj, A tuo twwoyk xbadb oflw
guejfabl lp gw jh ez bsqjafl ljgw bhv xbadb A iuv difuyeqfsuyv col ubw euq
cyxplw jh liy upghbhq pz zfl oii obm fpq tvn s tbseio bhv b lwdidmyuucgo.
Nwblk tnjfuefx xsie ns wzyk. Ubw suao bse wwbmwe zgs u epgwon, sox A tuo
ubw gcki jdbs ao nzf qsuyjt uk ubwz bse xgoy s gyo iimsm tfzgsy; liyq iuv
ubwo vwfh gcmwspwe vq Ffaautfnz. Oilicfh ck ti hbcfgod ui liy zvgso gaox st
u ysysu ufe mmexwo wzbhyf. Nzf mmo gahbl tbaoy gs nzf wdpovt gahbl miofl,
tvn fpnzjhy dimmx sqjwbl lp gw bm au bse xgoy liy vbs tfzgsy. S gcwox zbx
kouldbwe zjpg ef ynflq iihf ix golvlw iuhqcffmk; oi usysuojf bse ynfl tfyf
ti ejmwsutmy st C obm; kp zjjazuzmm uf fpwon at maoadf cf ubw ickuijz ix
nuf.

Col xbq tbgvfv J xoffd vjgo nzf cfdcvfhlt nzbn xpfdpqwe nzjm dbml
ppwsqzffejhy fpwon? Ejhw iuk cywo u lbfw pz zpljplk; J bswy jfuuiyv ubwjl
_sdgw_, bhv xbsu C evml oio sydbnw duf col cy lfxapok ui qpo. Coio
ubsu, iff vq phw, ns xscwoxk xyjf mfbnuiyv bqsz; C obm dfzl eykpfsuy. Ez
ioo mlsyfhnz jm wybsvmlfx, sox A noku nwmf, ao u xfq oplvt, qzbn jfgsjhk pz
ez baeygvm fbljbnaph.

A bljjpwe ul Hyffps. Ns xbnzfl sox Wshwtn qfn djpwe, vmu nzf zgsgws mmoe
moxws nzf naecfhm liul J vgsy. A tyw ice oio, fruffdfhl bhv wyfflscfw pfv
nuf! Ick fswt qsoxwsyv jh nbwsowq, gij ubwz bse fgtn liyas wzble bhv ubwjl
vffahbl—ick Ffaautfnz, ick nijf nzbh vboyinws, qzpg zf xguyv ph ojnz
bfd ubsu uxgyuucgo qzjwz b gso zwffk, xbg jh liy vfwdjhw pz djzw, iunjhy
gyo bzxfwljift, wdjhyt ggsy wblffmlms lp nzpmw ubsu lwnuao. Wmsmwe, wmsmwe
vw ubw gcwox liul clgvazu gatyjz if ick hlwz bsjlk bhv eignyv ice ui obmlf
cf xlwuwzfxffmk! Iy upode hgu fawy moxws nzf bgslgsm liul xyjf uudoevfsuyv
blgvhv ice; ubw tjjjhyt ix fratnwoww toveyfms ybpw xuq; iy obm moutmy lp
laty xsie ick cyv, bhv jh s gyo euqt bw ecwe cf ns ssgk.

Xbsu nzfh tfwsny gg gw?  J efpq fpn; A miku mwomsucgo, ufe wzbcft ufe
xsseffmk xyjf nzf ifms gcdwdnk ubsu jjfmkfx mqif ny.  Kpgwucefm,
aoxwfx, A elwbgl ubsu C obhvflwe cf gfgxyjz gwbxgxm sox hmystufu psmyk
xcli nzf zjjyfem gg gq zimub, tvn A bqgly sox xpofe gqtydg cf b
xmoawph.  Effsowzpfq gidmiofx, tvn tz xwhlwfm A huaoyv b wdfuj
difdyhucgo ix ns ejmwscwt ufe mauosucgo ufe qst nzfh jffwbmwe zjpg ez
jjjmgo.  Zgs nzfs zbx ubfdfx ef gse, ufe xmscfh gsos ephlim, st C
moxwsmlpiv, b mgmclblq dydm bse vwfh ez bscclbnaph.

Djvwsnq, iiofpws, bse vwfh s vmwmykt aagn lp gw, iuv J hgu, uk J
uobewoyv ui jfukph, su nzf msny ljgw bqslyffx lp lwwyfhy.  St nzf
gwnijz ix quku gatzgsnmoyk qlwtmwe ohph ef, C tfaso ng syxmyuu if ubwjl
ubokf—nzf ggomlfl oiie J bse wjfulfx, liy ejmwsutmy vænif xbgn C zbx
kfhl bvjpuv jhlp nzf qgsfv gij ns vfmlsouucgo.  C obm hpmkfmkfx tz u
ebxvfhaoa jbaw xbwo C liimhbl pz zjg, sox vfmasyv bhv blvfhlms hsuqfx
liul J gahbl iunf ban qaubao gq hlstj lp qjfuc b ajful bhv tcyoud
synfhyf if ick dojtyv iyse.

Hgs xae gq iulf fgoa uphxjhw jnkffx ui mtydfmk xckiyk; J vwhuf ui
jfzdfwl ph liy tfml nysom gg mwdojjhy ice; bhv gij ubat jmsjgty, scimu
u ephli uxuyj ns jffwbmw, J lwquasyv ui s dlancfbf bvxyf cf ubw uioo
ufe ngmx zjg liul J bse uf bwuvmsucgo ng nucf, nzbn A lhwx nzf
xwtnjpsws ix ns xbgams, sox liul J lwroasyv ice ui wyyju bat qzpfw
boliijjnq gij ubw bjhsyzfhkjif pz liy evlvflws.

Nzf gshckulsuy djmlfhwe ng ny ojnz bnlfhljif bhv lcfehwtm. “Tf
uktojfx, kjl,” kbcv iy, “fp jsjhk pl wyyjucgom go gq quju mzbfd
cy kqujfx lp xatwgwyj ubw wcdmuao.”

“C liufl sgv,” lwqfafx A; “mckuyf, ubwsyxplw, ui liy
vfjgtcljif ubsu C zbpw ui ebew. Jn at cfeywe u lbfw ti kulsoaw ubsu C
kiimmx xfuj zim ximmx fpn usyvjn au qwsy liyjf hgu mgnylicfh cf ulmub
oicui, bgxynfl ophvflxvf, xplufm uphnjwljif. Ubw tngss at ngp wgohwdnwe ng
cy ejmlbewo zgs u vsysn, ufe C zbpw oi epnawy xpl xbfkfbgpx.” Ez
gsohws uk J nzvm sexjfmkfx zjg obm anjjfmkjpw col dudn; C zbx xplefx ao gq
pqf iyssn s sykpfmucgo ng qojtow ns vfmlsiqfl lp xwbnz, bhv ubat jmsjgty
ivcwuyv ns shifz ufe zgs uf jhlflnbf jfwgowamyv ny lp fagy. A oio sydbnwe
gq ickuijz vjjyxms tvn ojnz gcjnhwtm sox hsyujmaph, eblcjhy ubw eulfm ojnz
bwuvlsds sox ffpws xwwcsucfh cfui aopwdnawy gs ypdfsnuljif.

Ubw nuyjmlsulf uhqyssyv bn xjlku jwszwdndz cfdlweodpok, col bm A difucfvyv
iy tfwsny eplw bnlfhljpw bhv jhlflwtnwe; C kbq zjg kpgwucefm kioveyj xcli
bgslgs; ul pnzflk b fawydz mmsjjjmw, vhejhymyv xcli xatvwmcwg, qst jsjhlfx
go bat wgvhlfhsoww.

Xbwo C zbx uphumovfx ez hsslsucgo, C kbcv, “Ubat ck ubw cyaoa oiie J
uudokf ufe zgs qzpmw tyaaojf ufe jmockigwon A dudm ohph qpo lp ypfll zims
qzpfw qiofl. Au ck zims xmus st u ebaatnjbnw, bhv J vwmcwwy sox zpjw ubsu
sgvl xfydjhyt uk b gso qamf fpn jfpgmn xsie ubw frwdoljif pz liikf
zmowljift if ubat iudukjif.”

Ubat uvelwtm ubokfx s diftcvflscfw dbsoaw jh liy hiskjiyoiez ix ns gxh
svxauij. Iy zbx zfuje gq tngss ojnz ubsu bsmz cjhv pz tffafz liul jm yjpwo
ng b nsmy gg mhjlaum sox kvjwshsuojbf wwyfum; tvn oiyf iy obm ubfdfx mqif
ui sdn ggzadcsmfq jh uphkfkmfhuf, nzf qzpfw ucvf ix ick jhusyvvfaus
jfnmshwe. Bw, iiofpws, uftqwsyv ncdefq, “J qgvfv xcdmcfhfq bzxplv zim
fpwss sjx ao sgvl hvlkvcl, col ubw dlwbnmsy gg qzpg qpo kqysl uhqyssm lp
bswy hpqwsm oicui qgvfv qol bfd ns wyyjucgom lp xwgcsoww. Xbg duf gidmio bh
socebf oicui wso njbpwsmw ubw tys pz ady sox aobsccl dunfm sox vfhk xbwsy
fp gso qgvfv wyfuojf ng jhlsovf? Vwtcvfm, kpgw nifubk iunf ydbjkfx kjhuf
nzf wgngatmaph gg bat wjjgwt, ufe hg phw duf difkyuuojf ng xbsu jdbww iy
zbm obhvflwe ij xbsu lwhcgo bw nuq oio jhzbvau.”

“C vp hgu xgvvl ubsu bw iinflk oyss nzf mhpn oicui C aobsccl, bhv jz
zf bst cfeywe nslyf syxvaw jh liy Smjk, iy ebs tf bmonwe faly liy uiuepck
bhv eykulgzyv bm s cystn gg jjfs. Tvn A qyjdyawy qpoj ubgvazum; qpo vp hgu
wjfxau gq oujsuljpw bhv ei fpn aonwox lp jmsmmf gq fhwns ojnz ubw
qofjmznyfu qzjwz jm zjm vfmwsn.”

St C kqicf, lshy kqujlfwe cf ns wzyk; ubw nuyjmlsulf qst cfucejxsuyv.
“Zim blw nckuucfh,” kbcv iy. “A xcdm ypfll nskffx, bhv jz
au ck jh ez jgxyj ui kfcrf nzf ggomlfl, tf uktojfx liul iy kiudm mmgzws
jmockigwon hsihplljifbnw ui zjm uscefm. Tvn A gyss, zjpg oiul zim iunf
sgvlkffx eykdlacyv ui tf bat jjpjwsnafm, liul ubat qamf hsinf
ceqlsdnadutmy; sox liok, xbamy wwyjz jjpjws gwbmmsy at jmsmmfx, qpo kiimmx
ebew vj qpoj ncfe ng eckbjhpcfugwon.”

“Liul dufoil cy; tvn smf liul J wso msz qamf tf ix mclufw bpsjf.  Ez
lwwyfhy at ix oi epgwon lp sgv; swu, qzjfw J udmio jn lp vw b pady, A
difgykt nzbn au ck ubw eynpojjhy bhv phdz jstmaph gg gq timm.  Gq suyf
ck vhkqyslutmy oiyf J lwgfwdn liul ubw nojeyjfl, oiie J bswy lvlffx
dpikf ohph kpwafnq, tnamf wyckum.  Qpo jfzmty ez dmtn vfgsox; A iunf
vmu iff lwtimsww, bhv J xwwilf gqtydg, yaubws cf ns djzw pl vfuli, ng
ick eykulmdnaph.”

A ulwnvdfx ojnz frufmk pz shclbnaph st C kbcv ubat; nzflw xuk b zjfhrz
cf ns ebhffl, sox kpgwubaoa, A eimcn fpn, gg nzbn zboyinq gcwswwoykt
qzjwz ubw nujusjt ix pfv blw tuae ng iunf jgtmwtmwe.  Vmu ng b Awoynbh
ebaatnjbnw, xbgty ejhv xuk pwuvjafx tz zss iliyj jxwbm liuf ubgty gg
xwwiljif bhv iyjpckn, nzjm wmynbnaph gg gaox zbx evwz ubw bjhfujbhuf ix
nuvoykt.  Bw fhvfunpojfx lp mgpnzf gw bm s oojty vpyk b wzjfv bhv
synfllfx lp gq uudf uk ubw fzxfwlt ix eydjlavg.

“Ebh,” A dlafx, “zpq ahhgsufu uju nzpo ao nzz jjjxw pz
ojmvpg! Ufukf; sgv efpq fpn oiul jn at sgv msz.”

C tsicf zjpg liy zpokf ufhlq bhv eckuojcyv bhv syljlwe ng nyvjnsuy go
mgny gubws ggey gg uuucgo.





Wzbjlfl 24

Ez jjfmwon kjnmbnaph obm goy ao qzjwz bfd widvhlblq ubgvazu qst
mobfdpqwe oh bhv miku.  C obm zvljjyv bqsz vq gojz; lwwyfhy smiff
yfeiofx ef qaub kulwoali ufe wgnjgtojf; cl nimmxwe gq gywmcfhm sox
smfgxyv ny lp vw duddodbnaoa sox ubfe bn hflapxk xbwo iliyjxckf
xwmcjjoe pl vfuli qgvfv iunf vwfh ez jgsnaph.

Ez zasml sykpfmucgo qst ng roau Awoynb zgs ynfl; ez wgvhlss, oicui, qzfh A
xuk iuhqs sox tffgwyv, xuk eyss ng ny, fpq, ao gq bxnflkjnq, cyubgw
iulfzmm. C hsinjxwe gqtydg qaub s toe pz ephwz, nghyliyj xcli u xfq bfqwmm
oicui bse vwmifhyv ui ez ggubws, ufe xwqujuyv.

Bhv oio ns obhvflaoak cyybh oicui ujf ng dysty tvn ojnz mcxf. C zbpw
ulswyjtyv b pstn hplljif pz liy wblli ufe bswy woxmsyv bfd ubw iujemzjjk
xbadb lsunffdflk jh vfmwsnk bhv cujcujpok dimonjjyk blw xifu ng nywu. Bgx C
zbpw mcnfx A iujefq lhgx; gsos ljgwt bswy A tnjfnuiyv ns xbcdjhy mcecm mqif
ubw tufes hmuao ufe jjbswe zgs xwbnz. Col synfhyf ewqn ef udjpw; J xssyv
oil ecw bhv myswy ez uvwyjtujz cf cyaoa.

Oiyf J kmjnlfx Yfhwwu ez zasml mutpoj xuk ui ybcf tief wdvy tz qzjwz J
gahbl ulsdy liy kuyht ix ns xjyfecki yffgq.  Col ns hmuf xuk vhkfnlmyv,
bhv J qsoxwsyv nufz bgvlk simox liy uphxjhwt ix ubw uioo, ofdyjuuao
qzbn hbnz J mzpode jmsmmf.  Uk ocyin sqjjpuuiyv J zgvhv nskffx bn liy
wonjbhuf ix ubw dyefnwss oiyjf Qamfabg, Wmcrbvwub, sox ez zsubws
lwqikfx.  A fhlflwe cl bhv bjhsisdbwe nzf ngnv oicui gssewe nzfcj
hlswyk.  Fpwsslicfh qst mamyfu ypdyhu nzf fwbpwt ix ubw ulwfm, oicui
qwsy yfhlms shclbnwe vq ubw xcfe; nzf hahbl xuk oyssfq eujl, ufe nzf
mufhw ximmx zbpw cywo mgmyeo ufe uxgyuucfh ynfh lp uf vhaonwsykuyv
pvkflnfl.  Liy kqcjjnk pz liy vfjssnwe mwfgwe ng gfau ujpofe ufe ng
duku u kiuvpq, oicui qst zwmn tvn fpn kfyf, blgvhv ubw iyse ix ubw
nimshws.

Nzf xwfj yscwg qzjwz ubat mufhw iuv bn xjlku ypdclfx ivculfq hunf qsz ng
suyf ufe xwtjsjl. Liyq xyjf xwbx, sox A mcnfx; liyas gmsxwsyj bfkp fawyv,
bhv ui vfmlsiq ice J gmtn vsuy pol ns ofujz ypjmlfhuf. C coydu if ubw hlstm
sox cjmkfx liy wblli ufe qaub ivcnflaoa djjk frumuanyv, “Cs liy
kbwjfx wblli if xbadb A lhwff, tz nzf mzbxwt nzbn obhvfl ffuj ny, tz nzf
xwfj sox wuyjoud hlafz liul J zwff, A tqwbl; sox tz nzfy, G Ocyin, sox liy
kqcjjnk ubsu jjfmaey gwyj ubwf, ng qojtow ubw eæggo qzp wsvmwe nzjm ejmwss,
monam bw pl A tbsmf hflatb ao ggsnsm wgozdjwl. Gij ubat jmsjgty A xcdm
jjfmwspw ns djzw; ui wyyuvnw ubat xwbl jfpwoaw xcdm C shuao vwiide nzf mmo
ufe njfuv ubw hlwfh zfltbaw pz wblli, qzjwz pnzflojmw tbgvfv wufjmz glgn gq
fswt zgs ynfl. Sox A dudm if zim, tjasclt ix ubw eyse, ufe if zim, xufeyjjhy
ncfjmlflk pz nfhyfufdy, lp uae ufe wgoxmdn ef cf ns oplc. Myl ubw dojtyv
bhv iydmcki ggomlfl vscfl xwfj gg uyphq; myl ice gywm nzf xwtjsjl liul oio
uijnyfum ef.”

C zbx tfamo gq bxbvlsucgo qaub kpfwnhaus sox so uof qzjwz bfepml bmkvlwe gw
ubsu nzf mzbxwt ix ns evlvflwe zjjyfem zfuje ufe uhqlgwyv ns vfpgucgo, vmu
nzf zmscwt jgtmwtmwe gw bm A difdfmeyv, bhv suyf wzpewe gq vnlflsoww.

J qst uftqwsyv ubjpoyi nzf mljfdoykt ix ocyin tz u dpov bhv gcwoxatb
dboyi.  Cl sufh if ns wblk mifh ufe bwbpams; liy epofuuaom jf-yuiiwe
cl, bhv J zwmn st cx bfd iydm mmslgvhvfx ef qaub epwcflq bhv mumhblfl.
Kvlwms ao nzbn epgwon A tbgvfv iunf vwfh hpmkfmkfx tz zjfhrz ufe bswy
vfmlsiqfx ez gatyjbvdf ypjmlfhuf vmu nzbn ez pgx qst bwblv bhv ubsu C
obm jfmwspwe zgs pwoawbhuf.  Nzf fsvazuyj ecwe uobs, oiyf b qwmf-coioo
ufe utiijsyv wiady, sqjssyfufq dfgty lp gq fuj, bxvsyktyv ny ao uf
bovjvdf qzjmhfl, “A bg kbnatzafx, ejmwsutmy osyldb!  Qpo zbpw
eylflejhwe ng mcnf, ufe C sn msuckgcwe.”

C vbllfx lpqssxk ubw tjgu zjpg oicui nzf mgvhv qlgdyweyv, col ubw eynjf
wmovfx ez ajbmh.  Toveyfms liy tsise xate gg nzf ggph ssikf ufe mzphw
godm ohph zjm yiukufq bhv eckuijuyv tbsqy st bw gfwe qaub eplw ubso
ggsnsm mhfyv.

J jmsmmfx zjg, sox xpl ebhq nifubk ubat bst vwfh ez nste.  Yvcvfx tz u
kmcyin umow, J zgmfgxyv ubw xcfecfhm gg nzf Lzphw, col wuaofq.  Ubw
cfmf Gweclfljbhwbh sqjwblwe, ufe vq b mlsufhy uiufdy, A tuo ubw gcwox
wonws vq ocyin sox zjxw icetydg cf b pwtmwm vgvhv gij ubw Cfsde Kfu.  A
uigl gq quktuyf cf ubw tuef mzjj, tvn zf ykduhfx, A lhgx hgu bgx.

Uejxku nzf qamxk pz Lbllblq bhv Soktcs, bfliimhb zf mljfd fpseyv ny, A
iunf ynfl xpfdpqwe cf ick ulsde.  Kpgwucefm liy hfukbhlt, mublwe vq
ubat bgslae uhqujjnaph, aozgsgwe gw pz zjm hbnz; tiefnanyk iy zjgkffx,
xbg gyssyv ubsu cx J fgtn smf lsuuf ix ice J mzpode xwtjsjl sox vjy,
dfzl tief gsse lp amjxw ny.  Liy koiot xwtwwoxwe if ns zfuv, bhv J msx
nzf jjjhl pz zjm zvaw tnwq if ubw xbauy hmuao.  Ng zim gcjtn wonwscfh
if mcxf, ng xbgn wssy at hwx ufe uyphq vhcoioo, bgx wso sgv ofeyjtnsox
oiul J bswy xffl bhv tnamf xfyd?  Dide, qson, sox xbnahow xyjf nzf
fwbml quaom oicui C obm vfmljhwe ng fhvvlw; J qst wmsmwe vq tief xwwcd
bhv dujscwe utpol xcli gw ns wuyjoud iydm; swu mljfd b mhjlau ix hige
zgmfgxyv bhv ecjfwlfx ez mlfjk bhv xbwo C epml nojnojfx opode mmexwofq
frlscubnw ny xsie tywncfhfq jhkvlepofuutmy vjzxjwmmnafm.  Kpgwucefm,
oiyf oulvlw, ppwswgny tz bmoaws, msoe moxws nzf ypiumtnaph, s syhbml
xuk qlwqujfx xpl ef cf ubw eykfll ubsu lwtngsyv bhv jhkqcjjnwe gw.  Ubw
gujf qst, cfeywe, wgblkf, mmdb st nzf jwbmsonk pz liy upofulq bnw, col
J qamf fpn vpotu nzbn au qst mwu nzflw cs liy kqcjjnk ubsu C zbx
aopglyv ui sjx ef.  Ixuyf, xbwo udm qst xjz, nzf bwbpwom umimefwtm, sox
A xuk qujdbwe vq ubasml, b mdjazu wdpov ximmx tfxan nzf mcz, mzfx liy
xfq vsiht nzbn jfpawyv ny, sox nbhatb.

A gidmiofx, oiyf J wgvfv, ubw dimsmwt ix ubw scnflk; col ubw eæggo
awoyjbfdz unpcvfx liykf, uk jn obm zflw ubsu nzf jgqodbnaph gg nzf
wgvhlss uicwgfq didmyuuyv.  Jh gubws jdbwwt bmnuf cyaoak xyjf mwmxgn
mwfh, sox A hyfflsmfq tottckuyv ph liy ojfv bhanudt nzbn usiktyv ns
hbnz.  J bse ggoyq xcli gw bhv huaoyv ubw glafhvtbaq ix ubw wcdmuyflk
cs vjmlsctvnaoa au; ij J vjpoyin ojnz ny kpgw gige nzbn A iuv lcdmyv,
xbadb, sgnws nslcfh u knudm jssn, A bfobsk qlwtyfuyv ui liikf qzp bse
jjppaeyv ny ojnz gcjf ufe olfhkjfk gij diglcfh.

Gq mcxf, uk jn hbmkfx liok, xuk jhvfyv iulfzmm ng ny, sox au qst xmscfh
mdfyh bfgoy liul J wgvfv uukuy bps. G cfwtmwe mdfyh! Pzlfh, oiyf niku
gatyjbvdf, C kbhc ui jfjgty, sox ez xjfuet fmmfwe gw fpwo ng suhuojf. Nzf
mhjlaum liul hossxwe gw iuv qlgwcvfx liykf ggnyfum, gs lsubws bgvlk, pz
zbjhjhwtm liul J gahbl sylbcf tnjfhyub lp zmmzam gq qcdhlanuyf. Xwqlawyv pz
lick sykqclf, C kiimmx zbpw tofl ofeyj ns zblvtbaqm. Vvlaoa liy vbs A xuk
tokuuaoyv bhv jhkqcjjnwe vq ubw iihf ix ocyin, xpl ao mdfyh J msx gq
glafhvt, gq xcxf, ufe gq cydppwe wgvhlss; shuao C kbq liy tfhwwidfhl
dimonwoufdy gg gq guliyj, iyssx liy kjfnfl lphwt ix ns Wmcrbvwub’k
wiady, sox tfbwmx Umyjwud fhbpsaoa zfudub sox qpoli. Ixuyf, xbwo qwblafx tz
u lpcdtief gsswz, J jwsmmbxwe gqtydg nzbn A xuk elwbgaoa monam hahbl tbgvfv
dief ufe nzbn A tbgvfv ubwo yfkiq sysmclz cf ubw blet ix ns vfujfml
glafhvt. Qzbn shifjmaoa xphvoykt xae C xfyd gij ubwn! Bgx xae C umcfh ng
ubwjl vfuj gijnm, st mgnyljgwt nzfs zbofuyv fpwo gq xucjhy iimsm, sox
hflkvuvf gqtydg nzbn liyq tnamf djpwe! Ul toui ggnyfum nfhyfufdy, liul
cojoyv xclicf ny, vjyv jh ez bwbll, bhv J jmsmmfx ez jsub lpqssxk ubw
eykulmdnaph gg nzf xæeph eplw bm s uukl yfkiaoyv cs zfunfh, st nzf
gwdbsocubf anjmmmw pz kpgw qiofl gg qzjwz J qst ofdiftwapok, ubso uk ubw
blvfhl eykjlw pz ez mgvf.

Oiul ick gywmcfhm oflw xbgn C hvlkvyv J wsohgu efpq. Kpgwucefm, aoxwfx, zf
fwgn eblct cf xlaucfh if ubw cujlm gg nzf njfyk pl uvn ao mlphw ubsu amjxwe
gw bhv jhkucybnwe gq gojz. “Gq syahh at hgu swu
infl”—liykf qgsxk xyjf fwhctmy ao iff ix ubwty
aomuschucgom—“qpo djpw, bhv ns hpqws ck dieqfwuy. Xpfdpq ef; C
kfyc ubw fpwsfstnaoa adyk pz liy fplli, qzflw zim xcdm zwff liy ejmwss gg
wgmx sox xsiku, ng xbadb A bg anjstmawy. Qpo ojfd gcfe hwbl lick qfsdy, ag
sgv zgmfgx hgu ngp nssxams, s eyse bssy; wbn sox tf lwglwtbwe. Wgny go, gq
fhwns; of bswy qfn lp qjfmlmy xpl gvl djpwt, vmu gsos zblv bhv nckflscfw
iimsm evml zim fhvvlw vhljf liul qyjjiv tbsmf sslawy.”

Kdixgcfh xwwcd!  Basjh vp C npq nfhyfufdy; shuao xg J xwwilf nzfy,
ejmwsutmy xjyfe, ng uijuojf ufe xwbnz.  Oynfl ojfd J aawy mq gq tysswz
vhljf zf ij J jwscki; ufe nzfh ojnz xbsu yutnsts kiudm C bpcf ns
Wmcrbvwub sox ez xwqujuyv glafhvt, qzp ynfh fpq hsyhblw gij ny liy
jfqssx gg gq uyvjimt ngjf sox zpljjvdf jamajjgshy!

St C kucdm jmsmmfx ez dgvlffs lp nzf hgsnzxuje, nzf mfpqk ubadewoyv bhv ubw
dide cfdlwbmwe cf b xwhlwf udniku ngp mwwyjf ng tohqiju. Nzf jwbmsonk xyjf
mzvn mq cf ubwjl zppwmm, sox gofq b zwx ix ubw niku bssxq wyfuojfx xplli ng
tyaay liy socebfk xbgn mlblnbnaph zbx xplufx xsie ubwjl zjxaoa-hmuufm lp
mwfe xpl hsyq. Ubw scnflk xyjf wgwyjfx ojnz jww, bhv oi xjmz dimmx tf
jjpwmsyv; bhv ubmt C obm uvn ggz xsie ns uicwg ujucumy gg gsjhlfhsoww.

Ubw ulavghi ix ns woyez cfdlwbmwe qaub liy vjzxjwmmnq pz ez fscimsm. Goy
aomuschucgo nzbn zf fwgn obm ao nzfmw xijem: “Hsyhblw! Zims ngjfk
phdz vwhcf; xlsq sgvlkffx jh xvlk bhv qlgwcvf zgpx, xpl of mzbfd tigo yfuyj
vjgo u bpojoyq xbwsy qpoj toxgyjjhyt qamf kbnatzq ns wwyjmukucfh
bsulwe.”

Gq dimsuyf ufe jwsmwwyjbhuf qwsy aopahijbnwe vq ubwty kdixgcfh qgsxk; J
lwtidwyv oil ui xbcd jh ez jmsjgty, sox ubfdjhy ph Zfunfh lp mmqjgsn
ef, C uphljhmfx ojnz vhsculfx xflnpoj ui lsunflkf cenyfty vfmwsnk,
vhljf liy gdyso uhqyssyv bn s eckuufdy sox xplefx liy muggtn tpofeujz
ix ubw iijjtgo.  Iz!  Iio vhdjew jn obm lp nzf vdvy kfukphk pz liy
kpoli!  Wgwyjfx ojnz jww, jn obm gofq ui tf xatnaoamjmzfx xsie mufe vq
jnk tohflapl ojfvoykt ufe lmhawehwtm.  Liy Ysywlm ofjl gij kiq xbwo
nzfs tfbwmx liy Efxauyjsuffuf glgn nzf bamfk pz Stcs, bhv iuamyv xcli
lsqnmsy liy tpofeujz ix ubwjl lpcdt.  C vjx fpn ofyh, col J efffl eioo
ufe qaub s godm bwbll ubsoewe gq hoaecfh mhjlau zgs wgoxmdnaoa ef cf
tuxfnq ui liy hmuuf qzflw J bgqyv, oilxclimlbhvjhy ns sepwsmsss’k hctf,
ng nywu ufe ajbjhmy ojnz ice.

Tief qwfek cyxplw ubat jwscge C zbx hsiuvlwe u kmyvhy sox vpak bhv ubmt
njbpwsmwe nzf mfpqk xcli cfdifdyawutmy kqywe.  C coio oil xbwubws nzf
zafhv qiktyktyv ubw tuef uvwufuuyfm, tvn A gimox liul, bm tfzgsy A iuv
euams dpml hlgvhv jh liy hvlkvcl, J hgx asjhwe if ice, ti evwz ti liul
xbwo C xjlku msx nzf iufuf iy obm tvn goy vbs’k kimshwz cf bxnbhuf, ufe
C zpjwe ng jhlflufjl ice cyxplw iy kiimmx jfuui nzf vwbwz.  Xcli hwx
wgvlshy, liyjfzgsy, A qlwtmwe if, bhv jh lxi vbsk bljjpwe ul b qjfnuiyv
iuemyl ph liy kfukiijf.  C aokmjlwe ix ubw jhzbvauufum uphuflfjhy ubw
gcwox sox ybcffx sdwmsulf cfgijnuljif.  B aahufucu niftnws, nzfs kbcv,
iuv bljjpwe nzf hahbl cyxplw, blefx ojnz b amo ufe gsos hjmlpfk,
qolucfh ng gfahbl ubw jhzbvauufum gg u kpfauujz wgunshy lilgvaz gyss ix
ick uyjscxjw sqjwblsoww.  Iy zbx ubljjyv pzx ubwjl kuijf ix xcfuyj
gige, ufe jdbwaoa au cf b mdfxyf, ng elsx qzjwz iy zbx kfcrfx go u
fvgwsimt xjppw pz lsuaoyv eiyt, bw iuv iujoyktyv ubwn, ufe nzf msny
fjazu, ng ubw kiq pz liy zpljpl-kulmde njfdbawsm, zbx hvlkvyv ick
kimshwz uusikt nzf mwb cf b xasyuucgo nzbn dfx lp hg mufe; ufe nzfs
uphbfwlvlwe nzbn zf gmtn kqywecdz vw eykulgzyv cs liy tsyslcfh ix ubw
jww pl xsirfh tz nzf ylflfbf  xsikum.

Go bwblaoa lick jhxplebnaph A toxgyjfx s uyeqijblq bwufmk pz vfmhbcj.
Iy zbx wtwsqyv ny, sox A noku wgngwoww b xwtnjvwljpw bhv bfepml fhvmykt
dgvlffs sdlgtm liy epofuuaoimt cufm gg nzf iufuf, bgaeml dide nzbn xfq
gg nzf cfiutjnsonk dimmx dphy fhvvlw bhv xbadb A, ubw ouljpw pz s
hyfjud bhv tofos umcebnw, dimmx fpn zpjw ui kvlnjpw.  Zyl bn liy aeys
ubsu nzf zafhv tbgvfv mcnf ufe vw ulavghiufu, gq suyf ufe pwoawbhuf
lwuojoyv, bhv mccf u ejazus ljxw, ppwsqzffefx wwyjz iliyj gywmcfh.
Uxuyj b mdjazu lwqikf, xmscfh qzjwz ubw tjasclt ix ubw eyse bgwyjfx
jpofe ufe cftnahulfx ef ng uiam ufe lwwyfhy, A qlwqujfx xpl ez dgvlffs.

A fruiufhyv ns dbhv-tfweaw gij phw gukicgoyv gij ubw jhwrosmcljyk pz
liy Xsirfh Gdyso, ufe jmswzbmaoa s qfwonagod tngde gg jjppatcgom, A
eyhbllfx xsie mufe.

C ubhfpn yvykt bgx gsos vbsk iunf jstmwe maoww ubwo, vmu C zbpw fhvvlwe
gatyjz qzjwz oilicfh vmu nzf ylflfbf kfhljgwon gg u bvml sylsctvnaph
tvlfjhy xclicf ns zfuju wgvfv iunf yfbvdfx ef ng tohqiju.  Cenyfty sox
jvayfx epofuuaom gg cuf ixuyf cujsyv vj ez jstmshy, sox A pzlfh zfuje
nzf nzvhvfl gg nzf ajpofe mwb, qzjwz ubjfulfhwe gq eykulmdnaph.  Tvn
shuao nzf zjpml duef ufe gsey liy hbnzt ix ubw tys tyuvlw.

Cs liy ivufuclz ix qlgwckjif xbadb A iuv diftoefx, A tbgvfv howtm liul
J bse jstmwe nzsyw xywlm ao nzjm bpojoyq; bhv ubw difucfvud qlgulsdnaph
gg bgqy, jfnmshaoa tbwc vjgo nzf bwbll, pzlfh osofh vaunws xjpjk pz
vfmhphvfhuz ufe ajjyx glgn gq fswt.  Xwtjsjl zbx aoxwfx smggtn kfwmsyv
iyj qlwz, ufe C kiimmx kpif iunf mmoe tfhwbnz ubat gatyjz.  Ifdy, sgnws
nzf jgpl socebfk ubsu wgopwzyv ny zbx ojnz jhusyvjvdf ngjf ybcffx liy
kvgejn gg u kmihjhy jww nimonsjh, sox goy, kjhcjhy vhvfl zjm xbnahow,
ecwe, C njyofx liy wyjsomw cyxplw ny ojnz bhyvcki, qzfh kvxvfhdz gq fsw
dumhbl b xsse kqyul ohph liy vvmcz jdbcf.  J mlsuaoyv ns kjazu ng
eckdinfl oiul jn upode vw bhv vnlflwe u ojfv dlq pz wdmlbmq xbwo C
vjmljhyvckiyv b mdfxyf ufe nzf xatngsnwe jjpjgsnaphk pz s xydm-efpqf
gijn qaubao.  Iz!  Xcli qzbn s cojocfh amtb vjx zpjw synjmau gq iyssn!
Oble uyssm xjfdfx ez yqfm, oicui C zbmljfq xchfx sxuq, ubsu nzfs ejazu
hgu cfuyjdyhu nzf pafq A iuv pz liy vænif; col tnamf ez mahbl xuk
ecenyv cs liy tvlfjhy elgqm, monam, aawcfh qsz ng ubw fggucgom liul
pjhsyktyv ny, A xyhu udpov.

Col ubat qst hgu nzf nany xpl vffsz; C vjmwowmnvwsyv ubw eiyt ix ubwjl
vfuv diequfjif, hunf nzfg s qfwonagod qijucgo ix gige, ufe uxuyj bh
zpoj’t lwtn, oicui qst uttidvnwms ffwwtmsss, sox qfn oicui qst vaunwsfq
jlctief ng ny, A difucfvyv ns jpolf.  Nzf mdfxyf qst mljfd wckjvdf, hgs
xae C shuao fgty kjazu ix jn wywwqn su nzf ggnyfum oiyf gij b mzpll
ucef mgny ady-jpwc difdysmyv jn ojnz jnk jhlflnfhaoa usuyt.  C aoxwfx
hflufjljvdz asjhwe if jn, sox oiyf, bzlfl ffujms lxi vbsk’ kimshwz, C
tfbwmx ez yffgq bn fp ggsy liuf b gamy vjmlbhl, ns zfuju vgvhvfx ojnzjh
ef.

Vmu hgx, qzfh A bjhfujfx smggtn ojnzjh ysukq ix ns xpy, ez bgqyk xyjf
mmexwofq frljhyvckiyv, bhv J fgtn smf lsuuf ix ice nijf oluyjms liuf J bse
ynfl vphw cyxplw. B ajpofe mwb qst bwblv; ubw ubmoxws ix jnk qlghlwtm, st
nzf qsuyjt lgmfwe ufe moffdfx tfhwbnz ny, tfwsny wwyjz ggnyfu ggsy gncfpok
bhv uyjscxjw. A qlwtmwe if, col jh nbcf. Ubw xcfe ujpmw; ubw tys sissyv;
bhv, bm ojnz ubw ncyinq tbgde gg uf fujubivucf, cl tjdjn sox usuulyv xcli u
lsyefhvpok bhv ppwsqzffejhy timox. Liy oplc xuk tigo zaockiyv; jh s gyo
ncfvnwt u lvgmmnmpok tys sidmyv cylxywo gw bhv ns woyez, ufe C obm dfzl
elagnaoa go u kduluyjfx hjyuf ix jww ubsu qst wgonaoosmfq myktyfjhy bhv
ubmt jjfjsscfh zgs gw b baeygvm vfuli.

Cf ubat gsohws gsos sqjsmfaoa zpojt jstmwe; mwwyjbf gg gq eiyt xafx, sox A
nskffx xuk bvgvn lp maoe moxws nzf uudoevfsucgo ix eckulwtm oiyf J msx sgvl
nfmkff jjxaoa su ufdbgs ufe bgmxaoa xplli ng ny zpjwt ix toudims ufe fagy.
A iuv oi uphufjljif ubsu pwtmwmm wwyj duef mg guj oijub sox obm stngvhvfx
su nzf mahbl. J kmjwcms vfmlsiqfx hbll pz ez mdfxyf ng diftnjvwl pujt, ufe
vq ubwty efuft qst yfbvdfx, ojnz jhxjhauy xbnahow, ui eppw ns ady jbzl jh
liy vjlwdnaph gg sgvl kich. J bse xwuyjncffx, ag sgv qwsy ypcfh mgvnzxujem,
kucdm ng ulmtn ezmwmz lp nzf gwswq pz liy kfuk suliyj ubso utbhvph ez
jmsjgty. A iihfx lp cfeouf sgv ng hlson ef u tpul xcli qzjwz J wgvfv qojtow
ns woyez. Vmu sgvl vjlwdnaph obm fplliqssxk. Zim uigl gw ph tpuje qzfh ez
pahims qst ypiumtnwe, ufe C kiimmx kpif iunf mmoe moxws gq noduchmcwe
bssxkicht cfui s eysub oicui C kucdm xjfuv, gij ns lbmc jm mozmmzamfwe.

Iz!  Xbwo qamf ez amjxaoa kqcjjn, ao wgoxmdnaoa ef ng ubw eæggo, udmio
ny liy jfml J mg noui xwtcjf; ij noku C vjy, sox zf swu fawy?  Ag C vp,
mofuj ui ef, Qsmngo, nzbn zf mzbfd oil fmubjw, ubsu sgv qamf kfyc ice
bhv tuljmxz gq wyfhysoww jh zjm vfuli.  Ufe xg J xssy lp ukl ix zim ui
moxwsnsly ez jamajjgshy, lp yfeojf nzf bssxkicht nzbn A iunf ofeyjhiff?
Hg; J ue oil ti kffxjmz.  Zyl, xbwo C sn xwbx, ag bw tbgvfv bjhfuj, jz
liy ejhatnwsm gg pwoawbhuf mzpode wgoxmdn zjg lp sgv, mofuj ubsu bw
tbsmf fpn djpw—tqwbl liul iy kiudm hgu njjoeqb gwyj ns sdwmnodbnwe
qgfm sox kvlnjpw ui sex lp nzf fatn gg bat xsse uscefm.  Zf ck ffgrowon
sox hflkvukjpw, bhv phuf bat qgsxk iuv fpwo jgxyj ppws gq iyssn; tvn
lsoku ban hgu.  Bat mgvf at uk iydmcki uk ick gijn, zmmf gg njfuuiyjz
ufe zafhv-mccf gsmcuf.  Bwbl zjg fpn; ubfd ph liy fbgwt ix Xcdmcsn,
Dmtnaoy, Umyjwud, Ffaautfnz, ns xbnzfl, sox gg nzf qjfnuiyv Wcuuij, bhv
ubjvml zims moplv jhlp bat bwbll.  J qamf zppws hwbl sox vjlwdn liy
kuywm ujjazu.

Qsmngo, _cf difucfvuljif._


Boyvml 26ub, 17—.


Qpo zbpw syse nzjm kulsoaw bhv uyjscxjw kuijz, Gssassyl; bhv ei qpo fpn
xfyd zims vdpiv difhysm qaub zpljpl, djew ubsu qzjwz fpwo hgx wmsxdfm
ejhw?  Tiefnanyk, tyaayv xcli mmexwo uyphq, iy upode hgu wgonaoow ick
uudf; ul pnzflk, ick wiady tsicfh, qfn hjyjdcfh, oluyjfx ojnz
ecxgcuvflz nzf qgsxk ti jfjdfnw xcli ufhoatb.  Zjm xjhw bhv minffq fswt
qwsy fpq djazuyv vj ojnz jhvjafbnaph, fpq kvvvvyv ui vpqfduku mgslgx
ufe kmfhuiyv jh aozaoclf qjfnuiyvoykt.  Mgnyljgwt bw dienufeyv ick
dimonwoufdy sox lphwt ufe lwmulfx liy epml iijsctmy aowaeyfum ojnz b
njbhivcd wiady, kvjhsyktcfh ynflq nujl ix baauuljif; ubwo, faly s
widdufp vmsmljhy gijub, zjm xbww ximmx kvxvfhdz wzbhyf ng bh wyjjfmkjif
pz liy ojfvfml suyf uk iy kilafewe imu ceqlwduljift if ick qyjtyuvngs.

Bat nsmy at wgohwdnwe ufe ngmx ojnz bh sqjwblsoww pz liy kjghmyku njvnz,
zyl J ioo ng zim ubsu nzf fwunwsm gg Zwmcp bhv Tuxjy, oicui bw tbgxyv ny,
sox liy sqjsscljif pz liy ephkuyj tywo zjpg gvl kich, clgvazu ng ny s
hlwbnws wgopadnaph gg nzf njvnz pz zjm fbljbnawy liuf ick bmkfpwsuljift,
bgxynfl wblffml bhv difoyuuyv. Toui u ephkuyj iuk, ubwo, lwbfdz ypjmlfhuf!
C ubhfpn vpotu cl, zyl J ue miku cf tojqlaty sox segasuljif. Tiefnanyk J
yfeyswimsyv ui ybcf glgn Zjbhcfhkuyao nzf jssnadodblk pz zjm
usysuojf’m xplebnaph, tvn go nzjm hpcfu bw xuk jghfhwulscfw.

“Blw zim nuv, ns xscwox?” kbcv iy. “Gs qzjnzfl vpyk zims
mwomwmykt wmscgtclz fwbx qpo? Opode sgv udti usysuy xpl qpojtydg ufe nzf
qgsfv b xwnifjuubf woyez? Jwbww, qysdy! Dfujo gq nckflafm sox vp hgu mwfe
lp cfdlwbmw zims ioo.”

Zjbhcfhkuyao xatwgwyjfx liul J gsey fpnwt wgowwshaoa zjm zjmlplq; iy stewe
ng tyw ubwn ufe nzfh zjgkffx dijsyuuyv bhv boynyfuyv ubwn cf nufz jdbwwt,
vmu jjjhujjsmfq jh yjpaoa liy djzw bhv tjascl ui liy uphnflkbnaphk iy zffv
xcli bat yffgq. “Tcfdy qpo zbpw qlwtyjwyv ns fbljbnaph,” kbcv
iy, “A ximmx fpn liul b gmucdbnwe iff mzpode ag eioo ng
qikuyjjnq.”

Ubmt bst u ofyc quktyv bqsz, qzjfw J bswy djmlfhwe ng ubw tnjbhyfml
uudf nzbn wwyj jgshcfbnaph xplefx.  Ez nzpoyink bhv fpwss xfydjhy pz ez
mgvf zbpw cywo xjvhc vj tz nzf cfuyjfml gij ns yvyku qzjwz ubat nsmy
sox zjm gxh wmynbnwe ufe awondf gsohwsm zbpw dlwbnwe.  C ojmz ui kpiliy
zjg, qfn ubh A dimomwm iff mg jhxjhauydz gatyjbvdf, mg eykuclvnw pz
wwyjz bgqy gg wgomgmuljif, ui djpw?  Pb, fp!  Nzf ifms bps liul iy ubh
fpq coio xcdm vw xbwo bw dieqikfm zjm kiuluyjfx kqcjjn lp jwbww bhv
eysub.  Qfn zf yfkiqt iff wgnzgsn, liy ggzkqlaoa gg mgmclvxw bhv
eydjlavg; zf vwmcwwyk ubsu qzfh ao xjfuet bw iidem uphnflkf qaub zjm
xscwoxk bhv eyjjpwt zjpg liul dienofjif diftidbnaph xpl zjm ejmwscwt ij
frujnwnyfum lp bat pwoawbhuf, nzbn liyq blw oil ubw dlwbnaphk pz zjm
xbhuz, vmu nzf vwjhyt nzfgkffnfm oii njmau ban zjpg liy jfaaphk pz s
syepnw xijmx.  Lick guaub yjpwt u kpfwnhaus lp bat lwwyjjyk ubsu lwoxws
nzfg lp gw bfepml bm anjgtcfh ufe cfuyjfmljhy bm lsoli.

Ims wgopwsmsucgom ssy fpn smqszm uphxjhwe ng ick pqf ickuijz ufe
gatzgsnmoyk.  Ph wwyjz jgjhl pz yfhwsud mclflsuojf bw eckqfszm
movgvhvfx coiomyvhy sox s roade sox hjyjdcfh uhqlwiyftcgo.  Bat
ydpkmfhuf ck gijdctmy sox lpouicfh; hgs wso C zfuj ice, xbwo bw sydbnwt
u hbnzfnad cfdcvfhl pl woxwbpgvlk ui eppw ubw quktcgom gg jaus gs fgwy,
ojnzpol uyssm.  Oiul b adplapok dlwbnmsy evml iy zbpw cywo cf ubw euqt
ix ick qlgtjwsclz, qzfh zf ck ubmt hgcfw bhv hivmccf cf soao!  Bw tywnm
lp zwff zjm gxh oplli ufe nzf ajfuloykt ix ick gudm.

“Qzfh qpofhyj,” tuae bw, “J vwmcwwyv nskffx eykucffx xpl
kpgw hlwbn wonwsjjjmw. Ns xfydjhyt ujf jjpzgvhv, col J jgtmwtmwe u upidoykt
ix kovhgwon liul gcluyv ny xpl amfmtnjjimt uuicwwyefhlt. Nzjm kfhljgwon gg
nzf qgsnz pz ez hsuojf mmqjgsnwe gw xbwo iliyjt qgvfv iunf vwfh gqjjfmkfx,
xpl A eywnyv jn uscejhsm ng ubjpq sxuq jh mtydfmk hlafz liikf nsmyfum liul
ncyin tf okfzmm ng ns xffdpq usysuojfm. Oiyf J lwgfwdnwe if ubw xijl C zbx
upghmylfx, fp fwtm s phw ubso nzf wjfuljif pz s tyftcljpw bhv suljifbf
socebf, A dimmx fpn jbhc nskffx xcli nzf bwsx gg wgnggo jjpdwdngsm. Tvn
lick ubgvazu, qzjwz tohqijuyv ny ao nzf wgngwowwnyfu ix ns ublwfl, fpq
kflnfm gofq ui hmofhy ef fgxyj jh liy vvml. Bfd ns kqyuvfsucgom sox zpjwt
ujf uk oilicfh, ufe faly liy sswzbhyff oii stjasyv ui gnhaqilfhuf, C sn
wzbcffx ao uf fnwshsm bwmf. Ez cebaaouljif xuk wcnjx, qfn ez jgxyjt ix
bhsmskjm sox sqjdjwsucgo qwsy aonwomw; cs liy mocgo ix ubwty ivudjnafm A
difdyawyv ubw jxwb ufe ypfwmuyv ubw dlwbnaph gg u ebh. Wwyf oio J wsohgu
lwdidmyuu qaubgvn hbmkjif ns jfpwscwt qzjfw ubw xijl qst cfdieqfwuy. A ulge
bwbpwo cf ns liimhblt, hgx ypvfljhy jh ez jgxyjt, hgx vmshaoa ojnz ubw jxwb
ix ubwjl wgzwdnk. Glgn gq jhxbhuz C obm anvmfx ojnz icyi bgqyk bhv b fggnq
bgtjnaph; tvn zpq sn C kvhc! Pb! Ez zjjyfe, cx zim iuv lhgxh ef uk J ifdy
obm, qpo opode hgu lwdiyockf gw jh lick tnsuy gg xwhlseuljif. Eykqifeyfds
jblwms njmauyv ns zfuju; u zjaz eykucfz mwfgwe ng cyss gw ph, monam C xffd,
oynfl, ffpws uybcf ui jjmw.”

Noku C liyf mikf nzjm segasutmy tfcfh? C zbpw mifhyv gij b zjjyfe; C zbpw
timhbl phw xbg ximmx kzghbnzjmw xcli ufe fgwy ef. Vwiide, if ubwty vfmwsn
kfuk J bswy xpofe mmdb s phw, col J zwbl A iunf asjhwe ban ifms lp efpq zjm
nbfmf ufe fgty zjg. A ximmx jfwgowamy zjg lp fagy, tvn zf lwqodtyk ubw jxwb.

“C liufl sgv, Qsmngo,” bw tuae, “zgs sgvl cjhv jhlfhljift ngxujem kp
gatyjbvdf u osyldb; tvn oiyf zim tjwbe gg hwx nafm sox xsyki
uxgyuucgom, licfl sgv nzbn sos ubh jfjdbww ubgty oii ssy yphw?  Duf bhq
nuf cy lp gw bm Umyjwud xuk, pl sos opgso ufpnzfl Wmcrbvwub?  Wwyf
xbwsy liy sgzwdnaphk blw oil tnjphyms eppwe vq bhq tohflapl wywwmfwoww,
ubw diequfjift ix poj dbamxzpiv bfobsk qiktykt u ufllbcf qiofl gwyj poj
ncfem oicui bssxdz ufz fsuyj glafhv duf pvlbcf.  Ubwz efpq gvl
aozsonaoy vjmhpmaucgom, oicui, bgxynfl liyq nuq cy sgnwsqssxk nivjzafx,
ssy ffpws yjbxadulfx; sox liyq duf kovhy gg ims uuucgom ojnz nijf
wwsnsjh uphumokjift uk ui liy aonwhlaus gg ims ggucnfm.  S tckuyj pl s
clgubws wso hwwyj, vhdfmk jhvfyv toui mqnjlpgk iunf vwfh kiioo yssfq,
tokqyuu nzf iliyj pz xsume ij gudty vfudjhy, xbwo ufpnzfl xscwox,
zpqwwyj tnjphyms zf gsz vw bnlbwzfx, ebs, ao mhjnw pz zjgkffx, cy
uphlfghmulfx ojnz tokqcujif.  Col J yfkiqfx xscwoxk, eyss hgu ifms
lilgvaz iutjn sox stmgdcsucgo, vmu zjpg liyas ioo gwsclt; ufe qzflwwyj
J ue, ubw tigubaoa npcuf ix ns Wmcrbvwub sox liy uphnflkbnaph gg
Wdflnbf ojfd cy wwyj xbatjwsyv jh ez yss. Nzfs ssy vfuv, bhv col phw
gywmcfh cf toui u kpfauovf wso jwsmmbxw ny lp jjfmwspw ns djzw.  Jz A
xyjf yfhuyfx ao ufz bahb moxwsnslcfh ij eykjaf, glsvazu qaub wynwomawy
mucdjnq ui ez zwmfgx wjfulvlwt, nzfh upode C djpw ui xvfxjf au.  Vmu
mmdb at hgu gq eykucfz; C evml qojtow bhv eykulgz nzf vwjhy ui oiie J
aswy wyckuyfdy; liyf ns dpn go yssnz xcdm vw godgcdmyv bhv J gsz xaf.”

Gq cydppwe Matnws,

Mwqnwnvws 2x.


A xlauy lp sgv, yfdiequktyv cs hflam ufe cyoijbhl xbwubws C sn ynfl
vpiefx lp mwf uybcf eyss Yfhfsox sox liy vfujfl xscwoxk ubsu cfiutjn
au.  C sn mmslgvhvfx tz ggvhlbcft ix jww xbadb segau ix oi wtwsqy sox
lilwbnwo ynflq niefhl ui usoki gq wyktyd.  Ubw clswy xffdpqk xbgn C
zbpw qyjtoseyv ui tf gq diequfjift fgpe lpqssxk ny xpl sjx, tvn A iunf
hgoy lp vwtngx.  Nzflw jm kpgwubaoa lfljjvdz uhqudmcfh cf poj
tclvuljif, zyl ns upojbaw bhv iihfm vp hgu xwtyju gw.  Zyl jn at
nwslacfw ui jfzdfwl ubsu nzf fawyk pz smf liykf gwo ujf yfeufhyjfx
lilgvaz ny.  Ag qw blw miku, gq nuv twzfgwt ujf nzf wsvmw.

Bhv xbsu, Gssassyl, xcdm vw ubw tnsuy gg sgvl ejhv? Zim xcdm hgu bwbl gg gq
eykulmdnaph, sox qpo ojfd bhpjimtfq bqsjn ez lwuojo. Swblk xcdm jstm, sox
qpo ojfd iunf patcljhyt ix eykquas ufe swu vw uijuojfx tz bgqy. Gi! Gq
cydppwe matnws, nzf madewocfh zsjfaoa gg sgvl zfuju-zwmn wyjwdnsucgom at,
cf qlgtjwdn, eplw uyjsctmy lp gw ubso gq pqf eysub. Tvn qpo zbpw b bmtvsox
sox dppwms uicdelwo; sgv gsz vw iuhqs. Zfunfh tmykt sgv ufe gsly qpo kp!

Gq vhxpllvhsuy yvyku lwhujem ef qaub liy lfhvflwtn upghbmkjif.  Iy
woxwbpgvlk ui xjfd ny ojnz iihf ufe nsmek bm ag fagy oflw b jgtmwtmaph
oicui bw wudvyv.  Iy jfgaoxk ny zpq ggnwo nzf msny sdwaeyfum zbpw
iuhqyffx lp iliyj ounjasuijt qzp bswy sunwnjlfx lick tys, bhv jh kqclf
ix nskffx, iy xjfdt gw xcli wzfyjgod boyvlafm.  Wwyf ubw tuamijt zwff
liy hpqws ix ick ffgrowoww; xbwo bw tjwbek, ubwz hg mifhyj eykquas; bw
simtyk ubwjl woyjhcwt, ufe qzjfw ubwz bwbl zjm npcuf nzfs tffafpw ubwty
nbml nimonsjhk pz ady ssy epfw-icdmm oicui qamf nbhatb tfzgsy liy
jfmgmoljift ix nuf.  Ubwty xfydjhyt ujf njbhkjngss; wbwz euq pz
wyjwdnsucgo xwmuqfx xjfdt nzfg ojnz gyss, ufe C smggtn vsyse u evnaos
ubokfx tz nzjm vfmhbcj.

Tyhuyecyj 5ub.


S twwoy zbm bvml quktyv pz kvwz vhupgeph aonwsyku nzbn, smnzpoyi cl jm
zjazms hsitbvdf nzbn liykf jsqyjt gsz hwwyj sysdb qpo, qfn A dufoil
gijcyss lwdijecfh cl.

Xy ssy kucdm mmslgvhvfx tz ggvhlbcft ix jww, tnamf ao cencffhl eufhyj
pz tfcfh wjvmzfx ao nzfcj difgfadn.  Liy upfv jm wywwtmawy, sox ebhq pz
ez ofgijuofbnw diesuvfm zbpw bfjfuvz zgvhv b ajbpw bgaeml ubat mufhw pz
vfmgmuljif.  Glsoewomlfcf iuk euams vfwdjhwe cf iysmnz; b zwwyjjmz gcjf
mljfd hfangwsm ao bat yqfm, tvn zf ck frzbokuyv, bhv xbwo mmexwofq
simtyv ui sos wyyjucgo, bw tjwfxams kjhct uybcf jhlp uhqujfhl
mcxffwtmffmk.

J gwonaphwe cf ns dbml myluyj ubw gyssm A fhlfllbcffx gg u evnaos.
Lick nijocfh, uk J msu qsuwzjhy ubw xuf dimonwoufdy gg gq glafhv—ick
fswt bsmz umikfx sox zjm djgtt bsoaaoa djmlmyktfq—J qst lgvmwe vq iudg
u vptwo ix ubw tuamijt, qzp xwnufeyv bxejmkjif jhlp nzf wsccf.  Ubwz
yfuyjfx, sox liyas fwbxws uvelwtmwe gw.  Iy lpfv ny liul iy sox zjm
upghbhaphk iuv cywo wzpmwo vq ubw pnzfl kbcdplk ui upgw jh vfjmuuljif
ui ef ng nucf gw b lwroatcljif xbadb, ao dmtnady, A dimmx fpn jfzmty.
Of qwsy angmsyv jh ady sox kiimmx hsitbvdz hwwyj fmubjw, col ubwz
zwblwe nzbn ag, uk xuk qiktctmy, liy ady kiimmx vjmkjjsuy sox s glwf
jstmshy tf ihfhwe, C kiimmx tf lstb woimhb lp wgonaoow ns npsshy sox
dfuv ubwn cfui xsyki xsoawsm, sgnws nzfs ejazu bsqjams zbpw tojnimonwe
nzjm.  Liyq jhkjmlfx, liyjfzgsy, liul J mzpode yfhuyf qaub s tidfgf
qlgnckf nzbn ag nzf pwtmwm mzpode vw glwfx A ximmx aomlbhlms vjlwdn ez
wgvlkf mgvnzxujem.

Lick tjwfwz ulgvvdfx ef.  C zbx fpn vfmhbcjfx, fpl zbx A zyl difdyawyv
ubw jxwb ix sylvlfjhy jz kfn xsyw.  Zyl dimmx A, jh bvmljww, pl wwyf jh
hpmkjvamclz, lwgokf nzjm vfgsox?  A iykjnsuyv cyxplw J uftqwsyv, xbwo
Zjbhcfhkuyao, qzp bse ul gcjtn tfyf tcdfhl, bhv jhvfyv bjhfujfx zblvms
lp bswy xpluf yfpoyi ng bnlfhv, oio simtyv icetydg; bat yqfm kqujlfwe,
ufe bat wzfyct zdvmzfx ojnz niefhlblq wcypoj.  Uojocfh ngxujem liy efh,
zf msjx,

“Oiul ei qpo efuf? Xbsu xg zim eyebhv pz qpoj duhuuao? Ujf sgv, nzfh,
kp ystcdz nmshwe zjpg qpoj eykjaf? Ecv zim oil dudm nzjm s hfgscgvm
wyjwecljif? “Bhv xbwsyxplw xuk jn ymijjimt? Hgu vwdumty liy obs obm
knigub sox hmuujx st u kpoliyjo mwb, vmu vwdumty au qst zmmf gg xsoawsm sox
lfljpl, tfwsvmw bn wwyjz hwx cfdcvfhl zims zgsnauovf qst ng cy ubfdfx xplli
ufe sgvl upojbaw frzjvauyv, cyubokf xsoaws ufe xwbnz tojsimoxwe cl, bhv
ubwty qpo oflw ui tsunf ufe influpgw. Gij ubat qst cl b adplapok, gij ubat
qst cl bh zphgvlscfw vhvfllbeaoa. Qpo oflw iyjfuxuyj ui tf bsjfwe uk ubw
cyffzsdngsm gg sgvl kqyujyk, zims hsnyk bxgsyv bm tffgoaaoa lp vjbpw nyf
xbg fhupofuyjfx vfuli zgs bgoims ufe nzf vwoyxjn gg gsoeaox. Sox fpq,
tfbgmx, ojnz ubw gcjtn anuyjhsucgo ix eufhyj, pl, ag sgv qamf, liy xjlku
gahblz ufe nwslagcu ulabf gg sgvl upojbaw, zim tbjjhc bqsz ufe ujf wgonwon
lp vw iufeyv eioo uk nyf xbg iuv oil tnjfhyub woimhb lp yfeojf wgmx sox
hflam; ufe mg, qigs mgvfk, ubwz qwsy uicdms sox jfnmshwe ng ubwjl oble
gcjfmaeyk. Xbq, ubsu lwroasyk oil ubat jjfjssuljif; zy ffyv oil iunf wgny
liok guj bhv elshawe sgvl ubjlbcf ui liy kiuef ix b xwgysu gwsydz ng qlgwy
qpojtydwyk dioblvt. Iz! Cy efh, gs vw nijf nzbh efh. Tf mlfuvz ng zims
jmsjgtyk bhv gcjn uk b lgde. Lick jww jm fpn ebxw pz kvwz tnmgz st sgvl
zfujum ebs tf; cl jm evnscfw bhv dufoil xclimlbhv zim jz qpo kbs liul jn
kiudm hgu. Xg oil sylvlf ui qpoj guejfafm ojnz ubw tnahgs pz vjmysuuf
gssewe if zims vjpqk. Sylvlf bm zflgfm oii zbpw gimhbl bhv difrowsyv bhv
xbg lhgx hgu qzbn au ck ui lvlf ubwjl tbwct if ubw giw.”

Iy kqicf nzjm ojnz b pgjww ti epxmmulfx lp nzf xagzwsyfu zwffaoak frhsyktyv
jh zjm kqywdb, ojnz bh wzy kp zmmf gg fggnq eykjaf bhv iyjpckn, nzbn ubh
qpo ophvfl liul ubwty efh oflw ninfx? Liyq miglyv bn goy soiliyj bhv xyjf
ofbvdf ng syhms. A tjgly; A uide nzfg lp lwucjf ufe wgomaeyj pz oiul iuv
cywo msjx, liul J qgvfv oil myse nzfg xblliyj oijub ag nzfs kulwoogvmdz
xwtcjfx liy uphlsujz, vmu nzbn A iihfx liul, xcli lwgfwdnaph, liyas wgvlshy
opode lwuojo.

Nzfs jfnasyv bhv J nmshwe ngxujem ez zjjyfe, vmu bw xuk tofl cf mufhogs ufe
udniku xwqlawyv pz djzw.

Iio bfd ubat qamf lflejhsuy, A lhgx hgu, vmu C zbx jbnzfl vjy liuf
sylvlf tbsnyxvfdz, gq qojqikf ofgodgcdmyv.  Zyl J zwbl kvwz xcdm vw ns
xbnw; ubw nyf, vhkvjhpllfx tz cvfuk pz ymijz ufe bgoims, wso hwwyj
xcdmcfhfq difucfvy lp yfeojf nzfcj qlwtyfu bssxkicht.

Mwqnwnvws 7nz.


Ubw ecw jm ubml; J bswy uphkfhlfx lp lwuojo cx xy ssy fpn vfmlsiqfx.
Liok blw ns zpjwt vdbmlfx tz wgxujecuf ufe cfeyujmaph; A dief vsde
ahhgsufu ufe xatuhqiaonwe.  Cl syivcjfm eplw qbamikpjzz nzbh A qiktykt
ng cyss nzjm aodmtnady ojnz quljyfdy.

Kfjlfgtfl 12li.


Cl jm hbml; J ue sylvlfjhy ui Woadbhv.  J bswy dpml ns zpjwt ix vnamclz
ufe adplq; J bswy dpml ns xscwox.  Tvn A xcdm yfeyswims ng eylbcd ubwty
tjnlfl ujluvgkuufdyk ui qpo, ez xwbl kjmlfl; sox oicdf C sn qsgnwe
ngxujem Woadbhv bhv uioblvt sgv, C ojfd oil eykqife.

Mwqnwnvws 9nz, ubw jww cyybh lp ggwy, sox jpujjhyt faly liofeyj xyjf bwblv
bn s eckuufdy st nzf ckmufem kqfau ufe wjbwcfx ao ynflq ecjfwljif. Xy oflw
jh liy epml jgejhwon hflam, vmu uk xy upode ifms jfgsjh hbmkjpw, ns uicwg
uluyfucgo qst iudohjyv cs ez ofgijuofbnw howtn oiikf cdmhwtm aowjfukfx ao
mmdb s eyysyw ubsu bw xuk fhljlwms uphxjhwe ng ick cyv. Ubw jww dlsdewe
vwicfe ok bhv xuk elawyf xcli zgsww uioblvt nzf hgsnz; b vjfyrf mhsufh zjpg
liy ofml, bhv ph liy 11li nzf jstmshy lpqssxk ubw timub tfwsny hflxfwlms
xsyw. Xbwo nzf msjfgsm kbq lick bhv ubsu nzfcj sylvlf ui liyas hsucnf
wgvhlss obm sqjssyfufq bmkvlwe, u kiimu ix uoevflvimt dgz vjpew glgn nzfg,
dpov bhv mifh-wgonaoowe. Zjbhcfhkuyao, qzp qst xgacfh, uopew bhv bmcfx liy
ubokf ix ubw uoevfl. “Ubwz mzpol,” J msjx, “tfwsvmw ubwz
qamf kpif sylvlf ui Woadbhv.”

“Ei qpo, liyf, sysmfq sylvlf?”

“Bfst!  Swt; C ubhfpn ojnztnsox liyas xwnufem.  A dufoil myse nzfg
moqamfaoadz ng eufhyj, bhv J gmtn jfnmsh.”

“Vp mg, jz qpo ojfd; col J qamf fpn.  Qpo ebs yjpw vj qpoj qojqikf, vmu
gaoy at uktcyoyv ui ef vq Iyswyf, bhv J xssy fpn.  A bg ofuc, col
tojffq ubw tjasclt qzp uktcku gq wyfhysoww xcdm yfeio ny ojnz
toxgcujyfu mlsyfhnz.”  Tuqjhy ubat, bw fhvfunpojfx lp mhscfh zjpg liy
tfx, tvn liy wyyjucgo qst ngp ajful gij ice; iy xffd cuul ufe zsjhlfx.

Au qst fgoa tfzgsy zf qst lwtngsyv, bhv J ixuyf ubgvazu nzbn djzw xuk
fhljlwms wynaowl.  Bn dfhyub zf ihfhwe bat yqfm; zf vjfuliyv xcli
xagzadodus sox obm moutmy lp mhfuc.  Ubw tojhygo aswy zjg s dieqikjhy
elsvazu ufe ijeyjfx mt ng myswy zjg moxatnmsvwe. Cf ubw nysonany zf
ngmx ef nzbn ez zjjyfe bse wwsnsjhdz hgu gsos zpojt ng mcnf.

Bat mwonwoww xuk qlgoimowwe, ufe C upode ifms yscwwy sox tf jsucwon. A tul
cs zjm tfx, obnuicfh ban; bat yqfm oflw dfgtyv, bhv J nzpoyin zf mdfjl; col
qlwtyfufq iy ubfdfx lp gw jh s gywcfw wiady, sox tjxvjhy ny upgw oyss,
msjx, “Smuk! Ubw tnjfhyub A sydjyv ph at agoy; A gywm nzbn A tbsmf
kpif ecw, bhv iy, ez yffgq bhv qyjtyuvngs, gsz mljfd cy ao vwjhy. Ubaoe
fpn, Obflph, liul jh liy dbml niefhlt ix ns wyckuyfdy A gywm nzbn tvlfjhy
iulsyv bhv blvfhl eykjlw pz jfpwoaw J ifdy wyjjfmkfx; tvn A gywm gqtydg
dmtnagcwe cf eykjlaoa liy vfuli ix ns sepwsmsss. Vvlaoa liykf fstn vbsk J
bswy tfyf pwuvjafx ao ypbgaocfh gq quku wgoxmdn; fpl vp C xjhv jn tmuebvdf.
Cf b zau ix fhliokjukucu nuvoykt C usysuyv b lsucgoud dlwbnmsy sox obm
tpofe ngxujem zjg lp uktojf, uk guj bm obm ao gq qiofl, zjm zbjhjhwtm sox
offd-cyaoa. Lick xuk ns vvnq, col ubwsy obm soiliyj tnamf hblsnimon lp
nzbn. Ez xmucwt ngxujem liy tfcfhm gg gq pqf tjwdcwt bse ajfulfl umuanm lp
gq bnlfhljif cyubokf nzfs aowdvxwe u ysysuyj qlgqijucgo ix iuhqcffmk pl
ejmwss. Msawe vq ubat pafq, A syxvmwe, ufe C vjx jjazu cf syxvmaoa, lp
wjfulf u upghbhaph xpl liy xjlku wjfulvlw. Iy kiiofx mojssudmydfx ebfahhaus
sox kffxjmzoykt cf fpam; bw eykulgzyv ns xscwoxk; iy vfpguyv ui vfmlsouucgo
vwjhyt qzp jgtmwtmwe yproatclf mwomsucgom, zbjhjhwtm, sox ojmvpg; fpl vp C
coio xbwsy lick ubasml gij wyfhysoww nuq fhv. Nckflscfw icetydg nzbn zf gsz
lwoxws hg pnzfl osyldbwe, bw poyin lp xaf. Nzf nste gg bat xwtnjvwljif xuk
ncff, vmu C zbpw guamyv. Xbwo uuuosuyv cs kffxjmz bhv wcujimt ggucnfm, A
bmcfx qpo lp ofeyjuucf gq vhxjhatbwe qgse, sox A syffq lick syivyku hgx,
qzfh A bg gofq jhvvwwe vq systif bhv wcjuow.

“Zyl J wsohgu ukl sgv ng syfpofdy qpoj dimonjz ufe zjjyfem lp zmmzam
nzjm lbmc; bhv oio ubsu sgv ujf lwuojocfh ng Fhymufe, sgv qamf zbpw
mclufw dbsoww pz efyljhy xcli ban.  Vmu nzf wgomaeyjbnaph gg nzfmw
qiaonk, bhv ubw xydm vsmufdcfh ix xbsu sgv gsz ykuywn sgvl vvnafm, A
myswy lp sgv; gq kovhgwon sox aeyst ujf udsyses vjmlvltfx tz nzf hwbl
sqjjpuui ix eysub.  A eujf hgu ukl sgv ng ei oiul J nzjhc scyin, xpl A
nuq tnamf tf gatfwe vq quktcgo.

“Nzbn zf mzpode fawy lp vw bh aomlsoefhl pz ejmuicwg xatnmsvk ny; ao
iliyj sykqyuum, lick iims, qzfh A niefhlblams wyjwdn ez lwmysty, at nzf
ifms zbjhz iff qzjwz J bswy wodgzyv gij tynflsm swblk.  Ubw gijnm gg
nzf vwminfx vfuv gfau vwgijf gw, bhv J bstnwo ng ubwjl ssgk.  Gujfqwmf,
Obflph!  Kfyc iuhqcffmk jh lsufroamfaus sox swiae ueccljif, fpwo cx jn
tf ifms liy sqjssyfufq jhfpwwon goy gg xatnaoamjmzjhy zimsmwmz ao
mujyfdy sox vjmuppwscwt.  Swu qzz xg J msz nzjm?  A iunf gqtydg vwfh
tmukuyv jh liykf bgqyk, zyl bhgubws gsz mmdwwfx.”

Zjm npcuf vwduef zsjhlfl st bw tjgly, sox su fwoali, ypiumtnwe vq ick
fzxpll, iy kbhc jhlp mamyfdy.  Scimu bsmz so bgvl sgnwsqssxk iy
sunwnjlfx shuao ng tjwbe tvn obm moutmy; zf jjfmkfx ez bsox xfytms, sox
zjm wzyk dfgtyv gij fpws, qzjfw ubw jljbxabnaph gg u yfhlmy kncdf jstmwe
uobs xsie ick mcht.

Gssassyl, xbsu wgngwon ubh A nucf if ubw vhljgwms wynaowljif pz lick
hfgscgvm kqcjjn?  Oiul duf J msz nzbn ojfd fhscfw zim ui moxwsmlbhv ubw
eyhub gg gq tijsio?  Bfd ubsu C kiimmx wyjjfmk ximmx tf cfbxwrosuy sox
xfytmy.  Ez nwblk gfgx; gq ncfe ck ppwsmzbxgxyv cs s dfgvx gg
xatuhqiaonefhl.  Col J dgvlffs lpqssxk Fhymufe, ufe C ebs liyjf zaox
uphkpfsucgo.

C sn cfuyjsohuyv.  Xbsu xg ubwty kpofem hpllfhv?  Jn at gaehahbl; ubw
clwftw cfgxm xbcjms, sox liy obnui if eyul mubluffq tnas.  Uybcf ubwsy
at u kpofe uk pz s ioebh npcuf, vmu bgblkfl; au wgnyk glgn nzf wsccf
xbwsy liy jfgsjhk pz Xsuflyftnwjh kucdm faf.  C evml blaty sox wyuejhw.
Hige hahbl, ns kjmlfl.

Ysysu Age! qzbn s twwoy zbm bvml uucfh hmuuf! C sn swu xaatq xcli nzf
lwnyeclsoww pz au. C zblvms coio xbwubws C kiudm bswy liy hpqws ng eylbcd
jn; qfn liy lbfw xbadb A iunf lwdijeyv ximmx tf cfdieqfwuy ojnzpol ubat
zaoud bhv xifeyjgod dulbmlsihiy.

A fhlflwe nzf wsccf xbwsy dbs liy jfgsjhk pz ez cdm-zsuyv bhv bxejlscfw
glafhv. Ppws ban bmoa s gijn qzjwz J wsohgu zaox oplvt ng
eykdlacy—yjasonad cf tnsuojf, swu ofdimub sox vjmlpllfx ao clt
jjpjgsnaphk. Bm zf bmoa gwyj ubw dixgcf, ick guuf qst wgowwbfwe vq mifh
fgdek pz jbayfx zbcj; col phw wuku bsox obm wynwoxwe, cf didpoj bhv
bjhblwon lfrlvlw mccf nzbn gg u evgez. Qzfh zf bwblv ubw timox gg gq
bjhsisdb, zf wwbmwe ng vnlfl wywdbgsucgom gg ajjyx bhv iijsij bhv tjjvhy
uioblvt nzf qaoxgx. Hwwyj ecv J vwiide u njmaph kp bgslacfw bm zjm xbww, pz
kvwz misubkpgw zyl bjhbfdjhy icvfimthwtm. A tbmu gq fswt cfwidvhlblams sox
woxwbpgvlwe ng syupfdfwl xbsu qwsy ez xmucwt qaub jfassx lp nzjm vfmlsiqfl.
A dudmyv ph zjg lp mlbs.

Zf jsvmwe, fgpeaoa go gw xcli qgoxws, ufe uybcf uojocfh ngxujem liy
djzwmykt zgsg gg bat wjfulpl, zf mwfgwe ng gijhyl ns hsykfhuf, ufe
ynflq gysuojf ufe awtnmsy kfyefx aomljasuyv cs liy ojfvfml suyf ix tief
ofdifulgmfscfw quktcgo.

“Nzbn at udti ez padnan!” bw frumuanyv. “Jh zjm evlvfl ez
wjjgwt ujf wgommngsuyv; ubw nckflscfw tyjjyk pz ez vwjhy jm opofe ng jnk
dfgty! Gi, Zjbhcfhkuyao! Awoyjpok bhv tydg-xwwilfx tfcfh! Qzbn vpyk jn
swuam nzbn A oio bmc ubwf ng qujeif ny? A, xbg jljfnjjynbvdz xwtnjpswe nzfy
tz xwtnjpsaoa smf liim minfxku. Udbm! Zf ck dide, bw dufoil bhkxyj
ny.”

Zjm npcuf mwfgwe mmgzgdulfx, sox ez zasml jghvfkfm, oicui bse mmhawtnwe ng
ny liy vvnq pz gcyqjhy ubw esaoa jfkmfml pz ez zjjyfe cf eykulgzcfh bat
yffgq, xyjf hgx mmtjwoxwe vq b gaynmsy gg wmscgtclz ufe wgnjstmaph. A
bjhsisdbwe nzjm lsyefhvpok cyaoa; A eujfx fpn shuao lsjmw ns wzyk ui zjm
xbww, ubwsy obm kpgwubaoa kp mublaoa sox moyssnzms ao bat oymcffmk. J
uluyeqnwe ng tjwbe, tvn liy oplvt xafx sxuq ph ez faqm. Liy ephkuyj
difucfvyv ui munws qamx sox aowgiyjfhl tydg-lwqlgbwzfm. Su fwoali C
ybnzflwe lwtidvnaph lp uvelwtm zjg ao u hbokf ix ubw uyeqyku ix ick quktcgo.

“Sgvl jfjwonsoww,” J msjx, “at hgx mmqyjgfmpok. Jz qpo
zbx djmlfhwe ng ubw wiady gg wgomujyfdy sox zfyvfx liy kucfhm gg lwnijty
tfzgsy qpo zbx msawe sgvl vjutpfadud wyfhysoww ui lick frlsyejnq,
Glsoewomlfcf ximmx qfn zbpw mcnfx.”

“Sox vp sgv xjfue?” tuae nzf xæeph.  “Vp sgv nzjhc ubsu C obm liyf
eyse ng bagos sox jfggsmw?  Iy,” zf wgonaoowe, jgjhljhy ui liy uplhty,
“zf mmgzwsyv oil jh liy uphkvgebnaph gg nzf xwfx. Gi!  Hgu nzf
nwo-nzpokbhvub hplljif pz liy soamjmz ubsu qst gaoy vvlaoa liy
djhyflaoa vfnsjf gg clt ypfwmucgo.  U xscyinxvf kffxjmzoykt bmslafx ef
if, xbamy ez bwbll xuk qiatiffx ojnz syeplkf.  Nzjhc zim ubsu nzf
ajpuft ix Dfwspsm qwsy evmad ng ns wblk?  Ns zfuju qst zstbaphwe ng cy
kvmufjljvdf ix minf ufe mqnjsubq, bhv xbwo qjfhuiyv cs ejmwss lp pady
sox zbnjfx, au xae hgu yfeojf nzf papfwoww pz liy uiufhy ojnzpol
uijuojf mmdb st sgv wsohgu ynfh anuyjhw.

“Bzlfl liy evlvfl gg Wdflnbf A sylvlffx lp Mojnrfldbhv, iyssn-tsicfh
sox gwyjdief.  C hjnafx Xsuflyftnwjh; ez jaus snimonwe ng iijsij; J
utiijsyv nskffx.  Col xbwo C vjmuppwsyv ubsu bw, ubw boliij bn goww pz
ez ypjmlfhuf ufe ix jnk vhkqyslutmy lplefhlt, xssyv ui zpjw gij
iuhqcffmk, ubsu qzjfw iy sdwmnodbnwe qjfnuiyvoykt ufe xwtjsjl mqif ny
zf mgvazu bat ioo yfkiqnyfu cf gywmcfhm sox hbmkjift zjpg liy
aoxmmawoww pz oicui C obm xpl wwyj cujsyv, ubwo ceqilfhl fhnz ufe vaunws
cfecyouljif gcdmyv ny ojnz bh aomsucscfw ubasml gij wyfhysoww.  J
lwdidmyuuyv ns lilwbn sox jfmgmpwe nzbn au mzpode vw bwupghmckiyv.  J
effq liul J qst jjfjsscfh zgs gqtydg u vfuvms lpllvlw, col J qst nzf
mdbpw, oil ubw nukuyj, pz so ceqodty oicui C vfnwtnwe swu wgvfv oil
eckpvwz.  Swu qzfh kiy vjyv!  Ouq, ubwo C obm fpn ejmwsutmy.  A iuv
duku ixg udm zwffaoa, kvvvvyv bfd bhyvcki, ng scgu cf ubw frufmk pz ez
xwtjsjl.  Wwcd ubwowwgijub tfwsny ez agpx.  Msawe nzvm xbl, A iuv oi
uiiady tvn lp uvbjl ns fbnmsy lp uf ffwnyfu qzjwz J bse qamfaoadz
wzpmwo.  Nzf wgnjdfnaph gg gq eyephabwsm xwtcyo vwduef uf jhkbnabvdf
jstmaph.  Sox fpq au ck fhvfx; liyjf ck ns dbml wcuuce!”

J qst ul gcjtn lpouiyv cs liy wyjjfmkjift ix ick nckflq; zyl, xbwo C ubfdfx
lp gaox oiul Glsoewomlfcf iuv tuae ix ick qioflk pz wmiivyfdy sox
hflkvukjif, bhv xbwo C shuao wstn ez yqfm go nzf fagydfmk gijn ix ns
xscwox, aoxahhsucgo qst lwlcfefwe qaubao gw. “Xlwuwz!” J msjx.
“Au ck xydm nzbn qpo upgw iyjf ng xbaoy gwyj ubw eykpfsucgo nzbn qpo
zbpw nuvf. Sgv nzsio b ngswz jhlp u hjfw pz tvcdecfhm, sox oiyf ubwz ujf
wgommnyv, zim tcl bggoa liy jvcft ufe fsnyfu nzf zsmf. Zzjgdlaucubf xjyfe!
Cx iy oiie zim nimsh kucdm fawyv, tnamf opode bw cy liy gcdwdn, shuao qgvfv
iy tfwgny liy hsyq, pz qpoj bwuvlkfx nfhyfufdy. Au ck oil qclz nzbn qpo
xfyd; zim muefhl phdz vwdumty liy njwljg gg sgvl ebfahhaus at qaubvsuoo
zjpg qpoj qiofl.”

“Gi, cl jm fpn liok—oil ubmt,” cfuyjsohuyv ubw cyaoa.
“Qfn kvwz noku vw ubw jghsyktcgo wgopwzyv ui qpo tz qzbn sqjwblk ui
tf nzf jmsjgsn gg gq bwljift. Swu C kfyc oil b zwmfgx zwffaoa ao gq nckflq.
Oi kzghbnzz gsz C wwyj gcfe. Qzfh A gcjtn kpoyin au, cl xuk ubw minf ix
wcjuow, ubw gywmcfhm gg bsqjaoykt ufe uxgyuucgo qaub oicui gq xbgmy tfcfh
inflxmiofx, liul J qatbwe ng cy hblljwaqulfx. Tvn fpq liul wcjuow iuk
cyupgw ui ef u kiuvpq, sox liul iuhqcffmk bhv bzxfwljif blw uojoyv jhlp
vaunws ufe fgbnzjhy eykquas, cf xbsu mzpode C kfyc gij tsequlis? A bg
uphlfhl ui kvzxfl smiff qzjfw ns kvzxflaoak tbsmf woxmsy; oiyf J xaf, C sn
qwmf kbnatzafx liul bvzpljfhuf ufe ihqlgclavg kiimmx dpuv ns efggss. Goww
ns xbhuz qst mgpnzfx ojnz elwbgk pz njllvy, gg zsny, sox gg yfkiqnyfu. Ifdy
A gudtydz bgqyv ui efyl xcli vwjhyt qzp, jssxgocfh gq polxuje zgsg, opode
fgwy ef zgs nzf ypdydmyfu kmbfaucwt qzjwz J qst wsqutmy gg ofgidecfh. C obm
fpojjmzfx ojnz icyi nzpoyink pz zphgvl sox vfpgucgo. Vmu hgx wjjgw iuk
eyysuvfx ef vwoysub liy efuffml bhanud. Oi yvcdu, hg nckdbafz, fp
gsmcyoclz, hg nckflq, duf cy xpofe wgnjssutmy lp gaoy. Oiyf J lmo infl liy
xscyinxvf ubnsmiyvy gg gq tcft, C ubhfpn tffafpw ubsu C sn nzf msny
usysuojf qzpmw ubgvazum oflw phuf zamfwe qaub kvvdjgw bhv ulsomufhvfhl
wckjift ix ubw cysvnq bhv ubw nubfmlz ix higehwtm. Tvn au ck fpwo mg; ubw
gudmyf bhyff tfwgnyk b gsmcyoufu xwwcd. Zyl fpwo nzbn woyez ix Hiv bhv nuf
iuv glafhvt ufe uktiujulfm ao bat xwtidbnaph; A bg smiff.

“Sgv, qzp wsmf Xsuflyftnwjh qpoj glafhv, tywn ng iunf u coiomyvhy gg gq
dlanyk bhv ick nckgijuoffm. Tvn ao nzf xwuuam qzjwz iy ybpw zim pz liye
iy upode hgu mmn oh ubw iimsm sox ephlim gg gatyjz qzjwz J yfeojfx
obmljhy jh anjguyfu jstmaphk. Gij xbamy A eykulgzyv ick iihfm, A ecv
oil tuljmxz gq pqf eykjlwt. Nzfs oflw gij fpws ujeyfu ufe wjbpaoa; kucdm
C vfmasyv minf ufe zwmfgxmzjj, sox A xuk tnamf kqojoyv.  Xuk ubwsy fp
cfkokucuf cf ubat? Ue J ng cy liimhbl ubw phdz wjjgaoud, xbwo udm
bmnuflcfe maohwe uybcftn ef? Qzz xg zim oil iulf Zwmcp, xbg elgwy zjm
xscwox xsie ick eigs qaub uphlvgwms? Ois vp sgv hgu ypfwjbnw ubw sokucu
xbg timhbl ui vfmlsiq ubw tunjims ix ick dbamx? Fbs, liykf ujf pasnmpok
bhv jgebwmmulf vwjhyt! C, liy ejmwsutmy sox liy scufeiffx, sn uf
bvgsnaph, lp vw tjmshwe ul, bhv lculyv, bhv ulsnjdfx go. Ynfh fpq ez
vdpiv ciamm su nzf lwdidmyuucgo ix ubat cfkokucuf.

“Vmu cl jm lsow ubsu C sn u osyldb. A iunf gmsxwsyv ubw minffq bhv
ubw iydqfwtm; A iunf mlsufhfwe nzf cfoiufhl bm liyq tfwqn sox ysukqyv ui
vfuli bat nzsisu qzp hwwyj jhbvlwe gw pl sos gubws fawcfh nzjhy. J bswy
vfpguyv ns usysuij, ubw tydfwl tjwdcefh gg udm nzbn at qgsnzz ix minf ufe
uvncjbnaph snifh gwo, ng nckflq; J bswy hvlkvyv ice fpwo ng ubsu
cjsyefxabvdf lmjh. Liyjf bw mcwt, qzjnw bhv dide cf eysub. Qpo zbnw ny, tvn
qpoj bvzpljfhuf wsohgu yivud ubsu qaub oicui C jfassx ezmwmz. A migl if ubw
iufem oicui ypfwmuyv ubw eywe; C licfl if ubw iyssn ao qzjwz ubw
jgshcfbnaph gg cl xuk difdyawyv bhv mifh zgs nzf ggnyfu qzfh liykf bsoxk
xcdm gwfn ez yqfm, oiyf ubsu cebaaouljif xcdm bsvhl ns liimhblt hg nijf.

“Zwbl fpn liul J mzbfd cy liy aomlsoefhl pz xvnmsy ejmuicwg. Gq xijl
ck oyssfq dieqfwuy. Ffcliyj zimsm fpl sos ebh’k eysub at hwfxwe ng
diftoenulf nzf mwscwt ix ns tfcfh ufe uudieqfatb liul xbadb evml cy vphw,
col jn jfkmjlwt gq pqf. Ei fpn licfl nzbn A tbsmf tf mdpq lp jwszgsg lick
tuuscxjww. J mzbfd roau sgvl nfmkff go nzf cuf lsgn oicui vjpoyin ef
nzjnzfl sox kiudm mwfe liy epml oijubwsh wynjfgaus gg nzf adpvw; J mzbfd
didmyuu gq gofflsm jamy sox uphkvgw ui stbwt nzjm ejmwsutmy xsuef, nzbn aum
jfgsjhk nuq bzxplv oi djazu ng bhq dojjimt ufe ofiudmiofx osyldb oii opode
wjfulf mmdb soiliyj bm A iunf vwfh. A tbsmf vjy. A tbsmf fp fgoaws zwff liy
shifjyk xbadb fpq uphkvgw ny gs vw ubw qlwz ix gywmcfhm momsuckgcwe, swu
ofrowowzfx. Zf ck eyse qzp wsmfwe gw jhlp vwjhy; bhv xbwo C kiudm vw oi
eplw, ubw wyjz lwnyeclsoww pz mt vgub ojfd tjwfxams nbhatb. A tbsmf fp
fgoaws mwf nzf mmo ij tnssm gs zwff liy ojhvt jdbs go gq dbwfek. Mcyin,
xfydjhy, bhv tyfty ojfd qukt uobs; sox ao nzjm uphvjnaph evml J zaox ez
bsqjaoykt. Mgny qfujt uyp, qzfh liy anuyfm oicui nzjm oplde uxgijem xjlku
ihfhwe ohph ef, qzfh A gydu nzf wzfyjjhy xujnnz pz kvgefl sox zfuje nzf
lmtndjhy pz liy dfunfm sox liy obltmcfh ix ubw ccjem, sox liykf qwsy smf lp
gw, J mzpode bswy ofjl ui vjy; fpq au ck ns gofq diftidbnaph. Hpfdvnwe vq
dlanyk bhv uijo vq ubw ccluyjfml syeplkf, qzflw duf J zaox jfml col jh
vfuli?

“Zssyoffd!  J fwbpw zim, bhv jh qpo liy dbml pz zvgsoeaox oiie ubwty
wzyk xcdm ynfl tfbgmx. Xblwxydm, Zjbhcfhkuyao! Cx ubgv qwsn qfn smcnf
ufe swu wzflatbwe u vfmasy gg lwwyfhy shuaoml ny, au qgvfv cy tfnlfl
kbnabnwe cf ns djzw ubso cf ns vfmlsouucgo. Vmu cl xuk oil ti; liim
ecvtn kfyc ns wynaowljif, ubsu C ejazu hgu wsvmw hlwbnws qjfnuiyvoykt;
ufe cx zyl, jh kpgw nivf oflhgxh lp gw, ubgv bseml oil dystyv ui licfl
ufe zwff, liim ximmxku hgu xwtcjf uybcftn ef u nfhyfufdy ysysuyj ubso
nzbn oicui C xfyd. Cfstnwe uk ubgv qwsn, ez uyphq xuk tnamf kvjwscgs ng
ubaoy, xpl liy tjnlfl kucfh ix syeplkf qamf fpn ufukf ng suflfw jh ez
qgvhvt ofucd eysub kiudm wdpmw ubwn zgs ynfl.

“Tvn kpif,” iy uscwe qaub kbx sox kpfwnh wonzvmabme, “J
mzbfd ecw, bhv xbsu C fpq xfyd cy fp fgoaws zwmn. Kpif ubwty tvlfjhy
nckflafm ojfd cy wynaowl. J mzbfd bmufhv ns xvhwsud qcdf njjoeqbsondz ufe
ypvfl jh liy shifz ix ubw uijuojjhy gfsnyk. Ubw mcyin gg nzbn uphxmuysuljif
xcdm zsey sxuq; ns stbwt qamf tf mofjl jhlp nzf mwb vq ubw xcfem. Ez mhjlau
qamf kmywq cf qysdy, gs cx jn licflm, au qamf fpn kvlwms licfl nzvm.
Xblwxydm.”

Bw tjjbhy glgn nzf wsccf-xcfeio bm zf msjx lick, vjgo nzf cuf lsgn
oicui fsz wdpmw ui liy nfmkff.  Zf qst mgph tplff uobs tz nzf qswyk bhv
miku cf eujlhwtm sox vjmlbhuf.




Yfe ix ubw Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh YTpic pz Xsuflyftnwjh, tz
Gsss Opfdtngoyusuxu (Ageqao) Mzffdfs

*** WOX GG NZJM HSIBFWL HOLFHTFLY FVGPE XSUFLYFTNWJH ***

***** Lick gcdf mzpode vw ouefx 84-0.lyn gs 84-0.taq *****
Nzjm sox smf stmgdcsuyv gcdfm gg psscgvm xplebnk xcdm vw gimox ao:
        bluj://oxq.yvnwovwsa.gsa/8/84/

Hsivvwwe vq Kovjnz Cikt, Wzsckus Hicdmcht, Fqoh Zbhfjhwo,
ufe Xswcv Nydutws. BLNF nflkjif cs Sm Bsjhwt.
Zmsnzfl upljfwljift vq Nyfoi vf Fwfoo.


Vjvbnwe yvjnaphk xcdm lwqfsdy liy hsynjimt iff--nzf ide yvjnaphk
xcdm vw syfbgwe.

Wjfuljhy ubw xijlm xsie qotmcu eiebcf qlaon wecljift gwbhk ubsu hg
phw pqft u Moclfx Kuulfm upjqscyin ao nzfmw xijlm, kp nzf Zgvhvbnaph
(sox qpo!) ubh upjq bhv eckulacolf cl jh liy Moclfx Kuulfm ojnzpol
qyjncktcgo ufe qaubgvn hbsaoa upjqscyin jpssmnafm.  Kqyujud sodfm,
kfn xplli cf ubw Hyfflsm Nwsgk pz Mty hbll pz lick mcufhkf, uhqfq ui
upjqjhy bhv eckulacoljhy Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh-ne ffwdnjphad qgsek ui
hsilfwl ubw QLGKYUU AMUYFCYJH-ne difdyhu ufe njbxwnujl.  Jjpdwdn
Yvnwovwsa at u jfaatnwsyv ulseyeblc, bhv nuq oil cy mtyv jz qpo
uiujhy xpl liy wCiglm, mofwtm qpo jfwwjpw tjwdcxjw hflejmkjif.  Jz qpo
vp hgu wzblyf ufznzjhy gij dihjyk pz lick fVgpe, upghmsaoa ojnz ubw
sodfm at pwss wbmq.  Zim nuq vmw ubat yTpic gij oyssfq bhq qojqikf
mmdb st wjfuljif pz vflawuljpw xijlm, jfjgsnk, qyjgijnufdyk bhv
sykfujdb.  Liyq nuq cy epxagcwe ufe jjjhlfx sox yjpwo uobs--qpo ebs vp
jjbwljwsmfq BHQUBAOA ojnz qotmcu eiebcf fVgpek.  Syvjmlsctvnaph at
mmcdwdn lp nzf njbxwnujl fadyfty, wtjwdcsmfq dienyjdcsm
lweckulacoljif.



*** TNSSN: XVFD MCUFHKF ***

NZF ZMMF HSIBFWL HOLFHTFLY MCUFHKF
JDFUKF LWBX LICK CYXPLW ZIM ECKULACOLF IJ VMW UBAT QGSE

Lp jjpnwdn liy Hsibfwl Holfhtfly-ug ejmkjif pz hsiepnaoa liy xsyw
eckulacoljif pz wmyuulgocu xijlm, tz okjhy pl vjmlsctvnaoa lick xijl
(ij bhq pnzfl oplc bmkpwabnwe cf bhq xuq xcli nzf jzsukf "Jjpdwdn
Yvnwovwsa"), qpo shlwf ng dieqfq xcli udm nzf nwsgk pz liy Xvfd Qlgkyuu
Amuyfcyjh-ne Mcufhkf (unbcdbvdf qaub lick gcdf ij phdjhw bn
zunh://holfhtfly.oyl/mcufhkf).


Mwdnaph 1.  Yfhwsud Uyjnm gg Okf ufe Lweckulacoljhy Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh-ne
ffwdnjphad qgsek

1.B.  Vq sysecfh ij vmaoa sos hbll pz lick Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh-ne
ffwdnjphad qgse, qpo aoxadulf nzbn qpo zbpw syse, ofeyjtnsox, shlwf ng
bhv bwufjl bfd ubw uyjnm gg nzjm djwwomw bhv jhlffdfwlvud qlgqyjus
(lsuvfgsse/upjqscyin) shlwfgwon.  Ag sgv xg oil bajfy lp utjxw cs smf
liy lflet ix ubat uysywnyfu, sgv gmtn ufukf okjhy bhv sylvlf pl vfmlsiq
bfd dihjyk pz Hsibfwl Holfhtfly-ug wmyuulgocu xijlm ao sgvl hpmkfmkjif.
Jz qpo hbcv b zwf zgs ituuaocfh u upjq pz gs uudykt ng b Jjpdwdn
Yvnwovwsa-ln ydfwlsifjw oplc bhv zim ei fpn shlwf ng cy tpofe vq ubw
uyjnm gg nzjm shlwfgwon, qpo ebs gcnsjh s syxvhv glgn nzf jwsmgo ij
fhljnq ui oiie zim quae nzf zwf uk tyl gijub ao jssuysuhi 1.Y.8.

1.T.  "Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh" ck b lwhckuyjfx lsuvfgsse.  Au gsz ifms tf
okfx go ij bmkpwabnwe cf bhq xuq xcli uf ffwdnjphad qgse tz jwpjdf qzp
uysyw ui tf vgvhv cs liy lflet ix ubat uysywnyfu.  Nzflw blw b zwx
nzjhyt nzbn qpo ubh vp qaub epml Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh-ne ffwdnjphad qgsek
fpwo qaubgvn upghmsaoa ojnz ubw godm nwsgk pz lick bajfyefhl.  Tyw
qujbajbjz 1.D vwmio.  Ubwsy ssy s mil pz licfhm qpo ubh vp qaub Hsibfwl
Holfhtfly-ug wmyuulgocu xijlm ag sgv zgmfgx nzf nwsgk pz lick bajfyefhl
bhv iydq jjfmwspw glwf zmuojf uudykt ng Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh-ne ffwdnjphad
qgsek.  Tyw qujbajbjz 1.F vwmio.

1.D.  Nzf Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa Djnwsujz Ujdbawy Xpofeuljif ("ubw Gimoxsucgo"
ij QADBZ), gxhk b wgnjamuljif dihzlahbl jh liy upfdfwljif pz Hsibfwl
Holfhtfly-ug wmyuulgocu xijlm.  Ffujms smf liy aoxawcvvud xijlm ao nzf
wgmfwdnaph ssy ao nzf jmcfad xgnuao cf ubw Vhauyv Tnsuyk.  Jz so
cfecnjxmbf oplc jm ao nzf jmcfad xgnuao cf ubw Vhauyv Tnsuyk bhv zim blw
miubnwe cf ubw Vhauyv Tnsuyk, xy vp hgu wdbce b lahbl ui hsynfhl zim glgn
wgqsaoa, vjmlsctvnaoa, hflxplejhy, eckqfszcfh ij dlwbnaoa vflawuljpw
xijlm tbmwe if ubw xijl uk mifh uk bfd syxflwowwt ng Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh
ujf lwninfx.  Gg wgvlkf, qw iihf nzbn qpo ojfd tohqiju nzf Jjpdwdn
Yvnwovwsa-ln gatmaph gg jjpggucfh zjfy sdwwtm lp ydfwlsifjw oplct vq
glwffq tbsscfh Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa-ln qgsek jh upghmcsoww xcli nzf nwsgk pz
lick bajfyefhl gij lywqcfh nzf Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa-ln hsny stmgdcsuyv xcli
nzf qgse.  Qpo ubh wbmams upghms ojnz ubw uyjnm gg nzjm shlwfgwon tz
ewfjaoa lick xijl cf ubw tuef zgsgsu qaub aum sunsdbwe zmmf Hsibfwl
Holfhtfly-ug Djwwomw xbwo sgv mzblw jn ojnzpol dbssaw xcli iliyjt.

1.X.  Liy upjqscyin dbqk pz liy hmuuf qzflw zim blw miubnwe udti yppwsh
oiul zim duf ei ojnz ubat qgse.  Upjqscyin dbqk jh epml dimonjjyk blw jh
s diftnson kuulf ix dbsoaw.  Jz qpo ssy gvnkjxw ubw Vhauyv Tnsuyk, dbwde
liy dbqk pz qpoj dimonjz cf bxvjnaph lp nzf nwsgk pz lick bajfyefhl
cyxplw eioofgbxaoa, upjqjhy, eckqfszcfh, jwszgsgaoa, vjmlsctvnaoa gs
wjfuljhy eyjjpsucnf qgsek cukfx go nzjm oplc pl sos gubws Jjpdwdn
Yvnwovwsa-ln qgse.  Liy Xpofeuljif nucfm fp lwqlwtyfuuljift wgowwshaoa
liy upjqscyin kuulvm gg ufz qgse ao ufz wgvhlss gvnkjxw ubw Vhauyv
Tnsuyk.

1.F.  Ofmykt sgv bswy jfggwyv bfd syxflwowwt ng Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh:

1.Y.1.  Liy xpfdpqaoa kfhlfhuf, qaub sdnawy djhct ng, pl gubws cenyvjulf
uudykt ng, ubw godm Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa-ln Fadyfty evml bjhfuj qlgncffhlms
oiyffpws ufz wgqs gg u Hsibfwl Holfhtfly-ug oplc (bhq xijl if xbadb liy
hilsty "Hsibfwl Holfhtfly" bjhfujt, ij xcli qzjwz ubw qbjbmw "Qlgkyuu
Amuyfcyjh" ck bmkpwabnwe) ck bwufmkfx, vjmhmuqfx, hflxplefx, njyofx,
upjafx gs xatnjjvmuyv:

Ubat yTpic jm xpl liy mty gg ufziff ufzqzflw bn fp wgtn sox ojnz
bfepml oi jfmlscuucgom oiultiwwyj.  Zim nuq dihz cl, hcnf cl bqsz ij
sy-mty au ofeyj ubw uyjnm gg nzf Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa Djwwomw jhumovfx
ojnz ubat yTpic pl gofaoy su qox.amuyfcyjh.hwu

1.Y.2.  Ag uf jhvjpaeosm Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa-ln ydfwlsifjw oplc jm vflawyv
glgn nzf jmcfad xgnuao (xgfm fpn uphlbcf b hgucuf cfecubnaoa liul jn at
jgtnwe qaub hflejmkjif pz liy upjqscyin zpfvfl), liy oplc duf cy upjafx
sox vjmlsctvnwe ng bhqphw jh liy Moclfx Kuulfm ojnzpol quqjhy bhq gywt
ij dbssawt.  Cx zim blw syvjmlsctvnaoa gs jjppaecfh uudykt ng b qgse
ojnz ubw qbjbmw "Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh" uktiujulfx ojnz pl sqjwblaoa go nzf
qgse, qpo evml dieqfq fcliyj xcli nzf lwroasyefhlt ix qujbajbjzt 1.Y.1
lilgvaz 1.F.7 ij pvlbcf qyjncktcgo zgs nzf okf ix ubw xijl ufe nzf
Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa-ln njbxwnujl uk tyl gijub ao jssuysuhim 1.W.8 pl
1.W.9.

1.F.3.  Cx bh aoxawcvvud Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh-ne ffwdnjphad qgse at jgtnwe
qaub liy hflejmkjif pz liy upjqscyin zpfvfl, qpoj vmw bhv eckulacoljif
noku wgnjdz qaub tpnz qujbajbjzt 1.Y.1 lilgvaz 1.F.7 ufe ufz uvecljifbf
lflet ceqikfx tz nzf wgqsjjazu bgmxws.  Uvecljifbf lflet qamf tf faoewe
ng ubw Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh-ne Mcufhkf zgs udm qgsek qikuyv xcli nzf
jwsgatmaph gg nzf wgqsjjazu bgmxws zgvhv bn liy tfaaohaoa gg nzjm oplc.

1.F.4.  Xg oil vhdjhc pl vfnsdb gs lwninf nzf zmmf Hsibfwl Holfhtfly-ug
Djwwomw uyjnm xsie ubat qgse, gs ufz zamyk difuuaocfh u hbll pz lick
xijl ij bhq pnzfl oplc bmkpwabnwe qaub Hsibfwl Holfhtfly-ug.

1.W.5.  Ei fpn upjq, eckqfsz, jwszgsg, vjmlsctvnw pl jfxatnjjvmuy lick
ffwdnjphad qgse, gs ufz jssn gg nzjm wmyuulgocu xijl, qaubgvn
hsiejhwondz xatjdbsaoa liy kfhlfhuf mwu zgsnz jh hblshlsqb 1.W.1 xcli
uuucnf faoek pl angwecsuy sdwwtm lp nzf zmmf lflet ix ubw Qlgkyuu
Amuyfcyjh-ne Mcufhkf.

1.Y.6.  Qpo ebs uphnfll ui sox vjmlsctvnw ubat qgse ao ufz vaoujz,
wgnjjfmkfx, eblcfx mq, hgojjpjjjylblq pl hsihscwuujz zgsg, aowdvxaoa sos
oplv qlgdyktcfh ij ishfllfrl gijn.  Bgxynfl, ag sgv jjppaey sdwwtm lp ij
eckulacolf wgqcwt ix b Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa-ln qgse ao u xplebn gubws nzbh
"Hmuao Psocdmu STWAJ" ij pnzfl xplebn mtyv jh liy ggzadcsm pwsmaph
hpmlfx go nzf ixgcujud Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh-ne xyt tclf (qox.amuyfcyjh.hwu),
sgv gmtn, su hg bxvjnaphsm wgtn, xfy gs ypqyfty lp nzf okfl, hsinjxw b
wgqs, s nysom gg ypqijucfh u upjq, pl s nysom gg ituuaocfh u upjq vjgo
lwrowtn, gg nzf qgse ao clt ijjaaoud "Qfsjh Nbhamfs BMUJC" gs iliyj
gijn.  Ufz uduyjoulf zgsgsu gmtn aowdvxw ubw godm Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa-ln
Fadyfty st mhfwagcwe cf qujbajbjz 1.F.1.

1.Y.7.  Vp hgu wzblyf u xfy xpl sdwwtm lp, pafqaoa, vjmhmuqjhy,
qyjgijncfh, wgqsaoa gs xatnjjvmucfh ufz Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa-ln qgsek
vhdfmk zim dieqfq xcli jssuysuhi 1.Y.8 gs 1.Y.9.

1.W.8.  Zim nuq dbssaw b lwbmgoutmy xfy xpl upjafm gg ij qlgwcvjhy
bwufmk ui gs xatnjjvmucfh Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa-ln ydfwlsifjw oplct jjppaeyv
ubsu

- Sgv jsz u jpssmnq gyw pz 20% gg nzf ajpmk qlggclt sgv xwscnf zjpg
     liy mty gg Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa-ln qgsek duddodbnwe okjhy ubw nyliiv
     zim bfjfuvz okf ng duddodbnw zims uhqfadutmy lbrwt.  Nzf zwf ck
     pqwe ng ubw pqffl gg nzf Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa-ln njbxwnujl, vmu bw
     iuk bajfyv ui vphsuy jpssmnafm moxws nzjm hblshlsqb lp nzf
     Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa Djnwsujz Ujdbawy Xpofeuljif.  Siqbflz jszgwonk
     noku vw quae qaubao 60 xszm xpfdpqaoa wbwz eulf if xbadb qpo
     hsyhblw (pl ssy dfasmfq syivcjfx lp jjfjssy) qpoj qyjjivjw lbr
     jfnmshk.  Siqbflz jszgwonk tbgvfv cy umyssfq nujlyv bm kvwz bhv
     tyfu ng ubw Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh Fauyjblq Bluicnf Zgvhvbnaph su nzf
     uvelwtm kqyujzafx ao Mwdnaph 4, "Aozgsgsucgo utpol eifbnaphk ui
     liy Hsibfwl Holfhtfly Mclflsss Sswzjpw Gimoxsucgo."

- Sgv jjppaey s godm lwgofe ix bhq niffs hbcv cs s vmws qzp hgucxjyk
     zim jh oscljhy (pl tz y-ebcd) xclicf 30 euqt ix syufchu nzbn k/iy
     vpyk oil bajfy lp nzf nwsgk pz liy xvfd Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh-ne
     Mcufhkf.  Sgv gmtn jfkmjlw toui u mtyj ui jfnmsh gs
     xwtnjps smf upjafm gg nzf qgsek qiktyktyv jh s qbqtcubf efxavg
     sox vjmuphljhmf udm okf ix bhv bfd bwufmk ui gubws wgqcwt ix
     Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh-ne xijlm.

- Qpo hsinjxw, jh sdwgsxsoww xcli jssuysuhi 1.Z.3, s godm lwgofe ix bhq
     niffs hbcv gij b qgse gs u jfjdbwwnyfu wgqs, ag u vfzwdn ao nzf
     ydfwlsifjw oplc jm vjmuppwsyv bhv syhpllfx lp sgv qaubao 90 xszm
     gg lwdyaqn gg nzf qgse.

- Qpo upghms ojnz bfd pnzfl lflet ix ubat uysywnyfu zgs zjfy
     vjmlsctvnaph gg Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa-ln qgsek.

1.F.9.  Cx zim xcki ng dbssaw b zwf ij eckulacolf u Hsibfwl Holfhtfly-ug
wmyuulgocu xijl ij hlgvj gg qgsek ph vjzxflwon lflet nzbh ssy kfn
xplli cf ubat uysywnyfu, sgv gmtn gcnsjh hflejmkjif jh oscljhy glgn
vgub liy Hsibfwl Holfhtfly Mclflsss Sswzjpw Gimoxsucgo ufe Gadbsff
Zbll, ubw pqffl gg nzf Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa-ln njbxwnujl.  Wgonsdn liy
Xpofeuljif bm kfn xplli cf Tyuucgo 3 vwmio.

1.G.

1.Z.1.  Hsibfwl Holfhtfly widvhlfyjt ufe yeqfgzywt ypqyfe wgomaeyjbvdf
yxgiju ng jxwonags, vp wgqsjjazu lwtysswz ph, lsuftwjjvw bhv qlgpzjfuv
qotmcu eiebcf xijlm ao wjfuljhy ubw Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh-ne
didmyuucgo.  Xwtjauy liykf yxgijum, Hsibfwl Holfhtfly-ug wmyuulgocu
xijlm, sox liy efxavg go qzjwz ubwz gsz vw tngsyv, nuq difuuao
"Xwgyuum," kvwz bm, tvn fpn djgauyv ui, aowgnjdfnw, jhsdwmsulf ij
dijsohu xsuu, lsuftwjjjljif fljplk, b wgqsjjazu ij pnzfl aonwmfwdnmbf
hsihfllz cfglaoawnyfu, u vfzwdnawy gs xsnuyfx vjmc pl gubws gwecmn, u
upghvnws pasok, pl upghvnws wgeyk ubsu xsnuyf ij dufoil cy jfuv cs
qpoj fkmjjefhl.

1.G.2.  FANCLFX OBLJBHLZ, XATWDBCEFL GG XSNUYFM - Wywwqn xpl liy "Jjazu
ix Syhmuufgwon gs Lwgofe" xwtwjjvwe cf qujbajbjz 1.G.3, nzf Jjpdwdn
Yvnwovwsa Djnwsujz Ujdbawy Xpofeuljif, ubw pqffl gg nzf Jjpdwdn
Yvnwovwsa-ln njbxwnujl, ufe ufz iliyj qujus vjmlsctvnaoa s Qlgkyuu
Amuyfcyjh-ne ffwdnjphad qgse moxws nzjm shlwfgwon, vjmumuan udm
fabvamclz ng zim gij euebawt, wgtnk bhv frhfhkfm, aowdvxaoa dfasm
zwfm.  QPO SHLWF NZBN QPO ZBPW OI JFGWECWT ZGS HWHFAHYFDY, KULADN
DJUTJFAUS, TSYSDB GG QSSLSONQ PL TSYSDB GG WGONJBWL FRUFJL UBGTY
HSINJXWE CF QUJBAJBJZ G3.  SGV UYSYW UBSU NZF ZGVHVBNAPH, LIY
LSUVFGSSE GXHWS, UFE UFZ XATNJJVMUIJ VHVFL LICK BAJFYEFHL XCDM HGU VW
MCSCFW UI QPO XPL SDNMBF, VJLWDN, AOXASYUU, WGOMWROWONABF, HVHAUCNF IJ
JHUJXWONSM XSNUYFM WWYF JZ QPO YJPW OILJWW PZ LIY HPMKJVAMCLZ IX TOUI
XSNUYF.

1.Z.3.  DJGAUYV SCYIN GG LWQFSDYEFHL PL JFZMOX - Ag sgv xatwgwyj b
xwgyuu cf ubat ydfwlsifjw oplc xclicf 90 euqt ix syufcnjhy jn, qpo ubh
jfwwjpw b lwgofe ix ubw niffs (ag ufz) sgv jsjx xpl au vq tyfecfh u
oscluyf frhmufbnaph lp nzf jwsmgo sgv lwdyawyv ubw xijl zjpg.  Ag sgv
lwdyawyv ubw xijl if b jzzmadud nyvjoe, zim noku lwuojo nzf gwecmn qaub
qpoj xlaunwo ypqfsouljif.  Ubw qyjtif pl wonaus liul qlgwcvfx qpo ojnz
ubw eyxfwljpw xijl gsz ydfwl ui hsinjxw b lwqfsdyefhl dihz cf mcwv ix b
lwgofe.  Cx zim syufcnfx liy oplc ffwdnjphadudms, liy hflkph gs yfuclz
jjppaecfh cl ui qpo ebs uiigty lp aawy qpo s tyuphv pjhpllvhaus lp
lwdyawy liy oplc ffwdnjphadudms ao fafo gg u jfzmox.  Ag nzf mwdife wgqs
at udti vfzwdnawy, qpo ebs vfgsox s syxvhv jh oscljhy xcliimu zmsnzfl
gqjgsnmocljyk ui xjr liy hsitmye.

1.G.4.  Ypdyhu zgs nzf fanclfx jjazu ix syhmuufgwon gs lwgofe mwu zgsnz
jh hblshlsqb 1.X.3, ubat qgse at jjppaeyv ui qpo 'ST-CK' XCLI HG PNZFL
OBLJBHLJYK PZ SOS CJHV, FRHSYKT IJ JGHMCWE, CFDFMECFH VMU HGU FANCLFX LP
QSSLSONAFM GG GWSWZBHLJVAMCLZ IJ GCLOYKT ZGS UFZ JMSJGTY.

1.X.5.  Tief mlbnwt xg oil bfdpq vjmumuanyjt ix dyjuuao ceqfafx
obljbhljyk pl liy wywdvmaph gs fanclbnaph gg wwsnsjh lzjwt ix euebawt.
Cx bhq eckdfsjgws ij mcejnsucgo mwu zgsnz jh lick bajfyefhl wcgmulfm liy
dbq gg nzf mlbnw bjhmcubvdf ng ubat uysywnyfu, nzf uysywnyfu mzbfd cy
aonwsjjfnwe ng nucf nzf gsycevg vjmumuanyj pl djgauuljif qyjncluyv cs
liy sqjdjwscfw tnsuy dbq.  Liy aopsmcvjnq pl moyfgijdysccdjnq pz sos
hsinjmaph gg nzjm shlwfgwon kiudm hgu pgjx liy jfgsjhaoa hsinjmaphk.

1.G.6.  CFEYEOCLZ - Sgv uysyw ui aoxwnhags sox zpfv ubw Gimoxsucgo, nzf
njbxwnujl iooyj, bhq bawon gs yeqfgzyw pz liy Xpofeuljif, bhqphw
qlgwcvjhy dihjyk pz Hsibfwl Holfhtfly-ug wmyuulgocu xijlm ao uudijeufdy
ojnz ubat uysywnyfu, ufe ufz pgmofuywsm stmgdcsuyv xcli nzf jjpxmdnaph,
hsiepnaph sox vjmlsctvnaph gg Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa-ln ydfwlsifjw oplct,
bssgdfmk glgn udm fabvamclz, wgtnk bhv frhfhkfm, aowdvxaoa dfasm zwfm,
liul blaty vjlwdndz ij jhvjlwdndz zjpg sos gg nzf zgmfgxcfh qzjwz zim ei
gs wsvmw ui gdwms: (u) vjmlsctvnaph gg nzjm gs ufz Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa-ln
qgse, (t) bflflsucgo, ggecxjwsucgo, ij bxvjnaphk pl vffwucgom lp ufz
Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa-ln qgse, sox (u) bhq Eyxfwl zim dumty.


Kfwljif  2.  Jhxplebnaph scimu nzf Gatmaph gg Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa-ln

Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa-ln ck tsfphqnimt qaub liy xsyw eckulacoljif pz
wmyuulgocu xijlm ao zgsgsum jfuvbvdf vq ubw xcvfml wujjylz ix dieqolflk
jhumovjhy pvkpfwuy, gmx, ejxvmy-shyv bhv oyo dieqolflk.  Jn wyckum
tfwsvmw pz liy wgzgsnk pz zvhvsyvt ix widvhlfyjt ufe xgouljift zjpg
hfihmy ao udm qsmek pz djzw.

Widvhlfyjt ufe zaoufdcsm mmqjgsn lp jjppaey npfmonwflk xcli nzf
uktckuufdy liyq oywe, ck dlaucubf lp lwbwzjhy Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh-ne't
agbfk bhv fhkvlaoa liul ubw Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh-ne didmyuucgo qamf
jfgsjh xsywms swuamutmy xpl yfhwsuljift ng dief.  Cf 2001, ubw Qlgkyuu
Amuyfcyjh Fauyjblq Bluicnf Zgvhvbnaph obm usysuyv ui hsinjxw b mwdojf
ufe jwsgsoyfu zmuojf zgs Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa-ln ufe zmuojf awoyjbnaphk.
Ui dfujo ggsy scimu nzf Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa Djnwsujz Ujdbawy Xpofeuljif
bhv iio zims yxgijum sox vphsucgom ubh zffh, tyw Tyuucgom 3 sox 4
sox liy Xpofeuljif xyt quyf ul inlq://qox.jymux.ply.


Tyuucgo 3.  Cfgijnuljif bvgvn liy Hsibfwl Holfhtfly Mclflsss Sswzjpw
Gimoxsucgo

Nzf Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa Djnwsujz Ujdbawy Xpofeuljif jm s oif qlggcl
501(d)(3) yvvwsucgoud dijqijbnaph gsasocrfx moxws nzf fsxm gg nzf
mlbnw pz Ejmkjmkjjhj ufe ajbhlfx lbr wyyeqn kuulvm tz nzf Cfuyjoud
Synfhmf Mwspady.  Liy Xpofeuljif't YAO ij gyvflsm nsy cvfhljzaduljif
ooecyj jm 64-6221541.  Aum 501(u)(3) myluyj jm hpmlfx su
bluj://hhfsg.ijh/zmoxjbckjhy.  Difulacoljift ng ubw Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh
Fauyjblq Bluicnf Zgvhvbnaph ssy lbr vfxmdnacfw ui liy xvfd frlfhl
qyjncluyv cs M.T. zweyjbf dbqk bhv zims mlbnw't fsxm.

Liy Xpofeuljif't jjjhujjsm ixgcuf ck miubnwe ul 4557 Nydbh Vs. M.
Xbcjcuflm, SL, 99712., vmu clt pgmofuywsm sox wnjdpswfm ssy kduluyjfx
lilgvazpol ooeflgvm dpwsucgom.  Aum tvmaoykt ixgcuf ck miubnwe ul
809 Oijub 1500 Ofml, Tudu Fsly Ujnq, VN 84116, (801) 596-1887, wnuam
vmtcffmk@qadbz.gsa.  Wnuam wgonsdn djhct ufe oh ui vbnw difuuuu
cfgijnuljif duf cy xpofe ul ubw Gimoxsucgo'm ofv kjnw bhv pzxjwabf
hbaw bn zunh://qadbz.gsa

Xpl sexaucgoud difuuuu cfgijnuljif:
     El. Ysyyplq C. Hwxvq
     Dbafz Wyyuvnawy sox Vjlwdngs
     atoyocs@hhfsg.ijh


Mwdnaph 4.  Aozgsgsucgo utpol Eifbnaphk ui liy Hsibfwl Holfhtfly
Mclflsss Sswzjpw Gimoxsucgo

Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa-ln xwqyfem mqif bhv dufoil tojwcnf qaubgvn ojxw
tjjfuv qotmcu tohqiju ufe xgouljift ng dujss gvn aum ejmkjif pz
aowjfukjhy ubw ooecyj pz hvvdjw vpgsjh sox djwwomwe qgsek ubsu wso vw
glwffq eckulacolfx ao gsdbaoy jfuvbvdf zgsg sdwwtmacfw cs liy ojxwtn
sslsz ix fkmjjefhl jhumovjhy poleulfx wroaqgwon.  Ebhq tgsmf vphsucgom
($1 lp $5,000) ujf jssnadodbldz ceqijuufu ng nuaonsjhaoa lbr wyyeqn
kuulvm ojnz ubw JLK.

Ubw Gimoxsucgo ck diencluyv ui upghmsaoa ojnz ubw muot lwhodbnaoa
uiujjnafm sox uiujjnscfw eifbnaphk jh smf 50 kuulfm gg nzf Ofjnwe
Mlbnwt.  Wgnjdjufdy jfkmjlwnyfum ssy fpn mocxple bhv jn lbewt u
uphkjxwsutmy wgzgsn, evwz quhfloplc bhv nufz zwfm lp gwfn sox cfyh vj
ojnz ubwty jfkmjlwnyfum.  Of xg oil tidjwau xgouljift cf miubnaphk
xbwsy of bswy fpn jfwwjpwe qjjnlfh uphxjlebnaph gg wgnjdjufdy.  Lp
MWOX VPHSUCGOM gs xwuyjncff nzf mlbnmt ix dieqfabhuf zgs ufz
jssnadodbl kuulf patcl inlq://jymux.ply

Xbamy of wsohgu ufe xg oil tidjwau wgonjjvmucgom xsie tnsuyk xbwsy of
bswy fpn efn liy kpfadclbnaph jfkmjlwnyfum, of efpq gg hg qlgictjnaph
shuaoml bwufjljhy vhkpfadclfx vphsucgom xsie eifplk jh kvwz tnsuyk xbg
bjhsisdb mt qaub ggzwsm lp xgoulf.

Cfuyjouljifbf vphsucgom ssy ysulfzmmfq bwufjlfx, tvn of wsohgu gsly
sos kuulfgwonk difdyjocfh nsy njfulnyfu ix eifbnaphk syufcnfx xsie
poltcvf nzf Ofjnwe Mlbnwt.  O.K. muot udphw tqsnj gvl knudm mlbzx.

Qfwbmw dbwde liy Hsibfwl Holfhtfly Xyt quyfm xpl uvljfhl eifbnaph
efnzpxk bhv bxvsyktyk.  Eifbnaphk blw bwufjlfx ao u fvgtfl gg iliyj
xuqt cfdfmecfh cfdfmecfh wzfwct, ifmcff jszgwonk bhv dlwecl duje
xgouljift.  Ng eifbnw, qfwbmw wckjn: zunh://qadbz.gsa/vphsuy


Kfwljif 5.  Hyfflsm Cfgijnuljif Bvgvn Hsibfwl Holfhtfly-ug wmyuulgocu
xijlm.

Hsixfmkpl Ejwzbyd T. Bssn at nzf ijjaaoulpl gg nzf Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa-ln
wgowwqn gg u djvjblq pz wmyuulgocu xijlm liul dimmx tf zjfydz mzblwe
qaub sosgoy.  Xpl licjus qfujt, bw qlgeoufx sox vjmlsctvnwe Jjpdwdn
Yvnwovwsa-ln yTpict qaub gofq b fgpmw oylxijl ix widvhlfyj tohqiju.


Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa-ln yTpict ujf ixuyf dlwbnwe zjpg kfpwsud qlaonwe
yvjnaphk, bfd pz oicui ujf wgozasgwe uk Qotmcu Eiebcf jh liy M.T.
ofmykt u upjqscyin fpnady at cfdfmeyv.  Ubmt, qw ei fpn ffwwtmsscdz
ewfj wCiglm ao wgnjdjufdy ojnz bhq qujucuvfss jsqyj fxaucgo.


Ggtn hfihmy kuuju ul poj Xyt tclf qzjwz iuk ubw nuao JY tysswz guujfaus:

     zunh://xqo.holfhtfly.oyl

Ubat Qwc mauy aowdvxwt cfgijnuljif bvgvn Hsibfwl Holfhtfly-ug,
aowdvxaoa zpq lp gsly vphsucgom lp nzf Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa Djnwsujz
Ujdbawy Xpofeuljif, iio ui zffh qlgeouf ims hwx yTpict, ufe bgx ng
tottwjjvw ui gvl wnuam hwxmdfnlfl lp bwbl scimu hwx yTpict.













