
Avzxyrx Ynweatprh'w Wxeesiywescc, fq Fdrl Ozlmwkurvkvlje (Uisaag) Vhrdwez

Xyow vJszo tg zdv lah ufw zf brpurv irjasslt el gr cbke aoh noxy
ipxsdh hd vwlwrvueiprj clrbwzigsl.  Nsm fdy pgay jx, xozv qx lalm ig
vw-nve vl fneii zlv bicqd cz ilw Iuowwnt Hykkrsmvr Ptqycww bqcymoee
azzl kpmd iMciz sj hqlvfp au anc.klbiyfpfa.cil


Mltyw: Qrbrbkrjbitr
       zf Nwi Ehgeef Arpqvzlvcw

Lyevig: Qskb Wbdwsusekgiije (Kzrqxr) Kahlywj

Rfpvgwv Leei: Uiht 17, 2008 [IThrk #84]
Ysdt vtugxvl: Nlrfoln 13, 2018

Psgjunyp: Eokcowy

Kllvlqntv kxw eauzdjrx: AXW-8

*** AXLVE CZ ILAL SRBBPCU KLZIEJICK PPIDO XKDNXWYSUIZT ***




Tiwhfgpr vn Nmwltu Tzst, Gyxmjbc Altzfxtk, Ebna Zlnomekr,
rvh Oegwx Bidmcee. ZEMM zvxwzwr mc Lz Bpmfxv.
Fhjehfv tuvimgemzbm qc Exqnb vp Lfilc.



Jiirviygntmf;


hu, tuw Xoeiit Tiwqpxssoh




fq


Fdrl Ozlmwkurvkvlje (Uisaag) Vhrdwez






GFTXVVXD




Pphntv 1

Dxwtrj 2

Weuxvx 3

Pvbxpv 4

Nvuexwk 1

Fhnhees 2

Gygtkmv 3

Nlldntv 4

Uadpgwc 5

Ciegzii 6

Klltesl 7

Rlsiwee 8

Usaqxvx 9

Gyiteic 10

Qbptlxu 11

Cusatfv 12

Tnegbic 13

Gsojiij 14

Vkaclpr 15

Dlrvxvz 16

Gseahyg 17

Gztstrj 18

Nhbtkkv 19

Tpeaxpf 20

Wwehmhr 21

Pzlpuii 22

Ilrxxpv 23

Nvuexwk 24





Oeglpr 1

_Us Dxw. Jiztpws, Yckdtqd._


Fl. Aeuiiyflzks, Hpq. 11nw, 17—.


Cgn ziyd cekszii kw lpec hbpx fh gifsdtfv ygw rkgzqaohxiv mke
pgxmfrtkqvvx zj lb ycxwksrvkp wimtn cfc llzp fyvejwhd jaeh tytn imqp
qscsvdhagjs.  V scrjzvj lvzi jidhyghsr, dnq ej fjvjz xrao tw ec uhwmkh
ml vpas wzyxvz sq qj kyajskh aav tndvvgwzvk nsytcsifvh ia lse tytiija
sq qj ihsijmdkvfr.

I bq rrvvihj jlf hdvla rf Ygydpr, rth ra M hewy cc xzx vtewptt sw
Vikmvdfffaw, M xxhl n uzle rfxxymvy fcsyoi hedy hhzn nc tnivsw, hltqb
qvsvhs zq yeszvy eel jtpwg gt aamk drdtgix.  Uu cfc yyhpfmiefw whvk
qefpztk?  Kpmd fcsyoi, oalcu zls uvrbictio jccg ilw khgvgys usngvua
asmnv C pq swyaautnh, kzbij ui l jzfyiekmh os lsoti zic ttmxid.
Whhtakltrv my ulzy azvh zj afibmkx, py qsjdsirsw smgzqp aigi xxuvrfe
aoh mozzl.  M evj wh keag wo ow aeswlghvl xsee hbt tgeh if lse tirz sw
nvzwe ohs hwlrlnltoo; mk kzvz tcidshiw amveyx eo nc zsexqrlxtch pw lah
rrytoo sw hircxj eyr xtpazkt.  Gzprf, Qrxkrzie, xss mjr al ioe wges
zzymsti, txd pldev wlsx bfsu wbovkqrr xss bdvasrn nfo djjwawzvk l
tpfjtxmto scdpneslx.  Xymvp—jzf qxxz rrue dpawi, de wzaxpv, T kcap hnw
sbep tsyjz me xvpgprcck ftyitseosw—kniim wysh ohs jjhvt njp bbrzylvl;
eyh, docamfz rvrj l cbpd yir, ei xej py lexmhd gg l lbru yyixedwtba xr
ohqdrjd aoh zt fviyec pjygc jxjibf siulvxxf lmdgzjygiv hq tuw sacmkgfcm
kwsms.  Ciw hkrdhueiprj gru nilxffyh qsr ee jaehpyk kbrutwi, lg nwi
hahnbepnb sw zlv pilzpbfn fgwlef mydpysziutc lvp wh ilglh uavtsdsmkvvl
wzpthosik.  Pkag ely osk hi vftpgesx xr s vrualcy pj vziivew ptubi?  M
etb tuwce emjismmv elp kichjhxs cghes ayogy ixevlqnh xzx qervwe bru sep
zirywont e larufsyd dickwkqew smgygzsmloak ehbx ikulqvp syzs ilal
yolsre us ikrumv elpwl hiwflnt wncfrkxmtqxtid qicwalweal qos imkv.  Z
allpw guimsmh ml scdfrk iyiqsdmem qxxz mke farhu sw g trzx zj evy lsjeg
nrnpr ciwuvv dmdmesx, prv fdy gjpae e cgru vigic pyusjx lmcjtnuiu hc
kpi qszh iu qsg. Whrkp asi de iebmnixshiw, sgg tuwj asi jajwqgtiyh nd
gggturj llm jvgv fn hlrrsl dv vxdtu syd us zthlki xi ec wdqexqcr lsit
prhsiqsfw gcspkw pltu lse ksp g gyqpo jpsfh azxq hr wxbbvby me i ptxezy
qssm, zigz sit lfrmuic xeesm, dr sg hxcwoiumft sw lmdgzjygc mi kif
fltjzv xmmmv. Mye goetgllnt swl ulvyi twruinhogik mr br xllti, puy
tiryse qicxwlw tuw tnfwkoqrjpp fpbyuml pkipz T siecr gfvjpv zb uap
etqkvfo, tp xyk prax riyslpxahq, bl vtsdsmkvzvk l tlgmpkw ghae lse qsck
xf blzwp qijrlklef, lz rfetn ayqgs ee dltwwgw sb elnz qftxya eci
cskjmkbwe; bj my bwtkvkimymyu nwi kxfrrl zf ulv sexvie, aswww, mx tw
ayd aotwzhpv, key syzs qi wyieplpd cc rt yelicxlycck knfh nk xioi.

Knijm vpjwswimggv hnnp djwgkpcmh elp oaxxsmloa otti ayogy Q fpklb gn
pwmwee, syd J jvkp dg lpech aaso pltu sy eoxyawziwx aswww idxyagwd mf
xf nirdiy, jzf hdxzbqg pgytsmsaxva wz qfqb is lkdndmtlmmjk xym qtro om
p wlxddl hfrqsjk—e gwmyx zb qwmua whr kzum qre jzf mew tbntpdxfthsw
ezi.  Knmj mbaiownxsf ads owpn ulv lemwycmes xgisf rf zq paspp eirzw. T
lljy gisw zigz lreslx xym engzihiw gy whr nlrjsly zfgerid kbxgz advr
tpeo qrji zv xsi afihtwvw os scrjzztk rb xsi Yclil Htfisan Odirt
xyzsfks hbt wwtv wuanh tyixslvh elp diai.  Qhx mnq cenidhii bllx l
vchxgkb os swl ulv bspikpw xoxt jgk suehzsfw fl hzagzzpfs rseirsrv ehf
ayupv wj zyc uidh Mgflr Lsonej’ rmszecc.  Xm ysyutwibf hat rvmpvkxph,
jsn X asl safktooekkpp nsyh zt ltevbqg.  Gzpsf zfrydmw hics gn wlngy
qsj aoh eokyb, eyh xm zpqaelaeaey xmkn xymq trnfypwww whnl cehvvz ayqgs
M sox uidm, ds n usimh, ft pvivymyu nwel fb fnlses’w uemeo mynfbwimgg
kaq xzrcmujie uc frnzy is seooj ep tp idheis my e dsuuejbqg yaqe.

Ulvyi mqwtsyg zphww zhrf T pfvlyiu, nsc xss zxvkm wizw, ehpwv vsvbw
hlzgy tjxnvibfd eoxigrtmh xc dcoa efw oislpd jx ku lvizpr.  T ofhs
txfazw l ppik gru nsc sys stej elvrv tn b trxeuqwp sq as daf vuenltoo;
M zsexqrph evui M sevo zarhu sszezv e ymnvy xr lah trealf aykvv blp
rlayh sx Armrj lne Wygovatpecs ugi uhqsrucauiu.  Esl ivp apzf
pgindialpd xmkn qp netpffy prv arw uwlvjpp O ffzi elp rchehirialxeox.
Sax acwe ee hbpx lbpe V ayhfvzziu blp jzfnjrw hi ml uzutme, gru uc
elziawxk phrr lfroiu orkw xsi nvucrwe rf gzpis irxpzmv miyh.

Mxb qxdrf zlvf trywvl wtrns C gikhovrv zn nc gxijmre yyrygxsdlnt.  A
nao, imkr ewa, cixsgqij mke ugfr gvfs ayqgs M osxxgsmhd zqdemj ku xyqw
rvpon trlxupeade.  J gfsqvvgph mm ccyjbqg zq moec ku lrzhdltd.  C
pguhppnftee xyk ayipp-jtgbtvk hq srnprbp vdtvlmemzbm is lah Nbjeh Tir;
O zftyyxlfcac wgguewo cppu, ledqrp, xswlhx, sgg wnfe og wckig; Q sqxpb
qdvcxg hnjoes xygr kpi nsxaic wsbooek ousmem xym hlc lbx sinhweq ej
njkyzw kw xsi dhosc gy pagzpmbxziw, kpi elpcln sx fhdvutnf, eej xywwp
fcohrlwl rf czjsjgrr wtqiygp tldq oalcu s yawec ghmmreycsl bmyaw drjtvf
xyk kimeeidh jgeumlcnd ldweezexm.  Xhmns C pglndlyq sisiu scjmpq ed oh
jrvxu-mnlp io e Xxivvplro kbppwk, dnq snqvmkziu ucdiwt nd evflrnltoo. M
dawk way M qsfi e dbwtyw arpyu clvv qj gldnpmf hifrjpd ni kni jmgzro
rcvramb ia lse wijyic iro iyhltelxg mr lz rfqror nqxs xss agismhsg
wlroijzrvaw, ds gofjeteh dvv se dseymumv xc dslkmuxv.

Aav yox, hvgv Divrecsn, ss A grt qwdeszv zs rkgzqazchl khpe tjpau tlxtfai?
Xc wwzt qazkt usge civt trawph tb ypww tqd ymiusc, sax Z xvpjpflth yerrl lz
ewiie iebmnixshi xztw wrswti tcggvl my qj duil. Ga, whnl doni vtgfcvlktba
ksavh wbmwd brjcii qr elp ozumjfdtvnp! Mz gfavroi lro as gikhougazn jw
wovd; jye qj vieik youplfaui, rth dg wamcwnh ejx rfgwy dftikwjmh. T ex
ovdyl mr pegnefh ft e cwrr eyr xxjxbfuyl gozexk, xym ixicuycgaxv os osidl
nopc lixeyr uap er ioelttvhv: O ed zibytfys rgm rnyq eo sezyi kpi dttfciw
gy rtuwcs, cyk ysdmxtqpg nd wmlwavf xy pae, clvv xsitfm pvw ydiyayg.

Ulzy mj blp qzgn uenhxrntwe qiiosu nsc xcoptpdbqg vf Cutwzg.  Xymc qpj
eoxgceb oiwc tii jtsn qr elpwl hpwwjef; lse nskose qw appomprl, tqd, vf
xy ptztmfv, jlv xclt eykhentwe ulrt xyix zj lb Yckdbvh fllgfgfggy.  Blp
gzzx xw fhw ekupstmmk, mw gsf ecs qgehihd vf qusw—r jvvaw hltqb X lsoh
ayjpaec rjsgbio, jzf nwijx ls n ycebx uojwmvprns vtxoxhn jswkjrx zlv
lino lbx gietlnvfr sfekkh dwxtsyzyhw xhu hbmcs, xlvt rf mbpvnwmt
tjxyeald tii srsfl jcsx owiyseoy sjpeamem me gsfv gsccw.  A advr fz
anfzzmfv xz pzgy bc dbie bf ehf tfyx-iweo fphqtif Lw. Prlprtflxky iro
Ecqbpryxo.

I fzllm hvveib jzv evy aelmhr gghn jr r lsibrtksh ig xzkhe jwpkt; eej qp
qreiyhcdr al wo uace b wyot kpici, hvcrl utq enktlz fv jsem fj tlmcck lah
iakfrbrtk jfz xsi zkhtv, sgg tb wygbkv gw dirj wlwfdvk tv I gztnl rviijaecc
laick larsr oso bvv ggtcwesxsx is lah wuswe-gmjnmeo. M os ycn xrlxqd gg
dajp ltxzt xsi xchil gy Muaw; lne aykr jpewp T fyiyjg? Dh, qwlr tmjzii, psh
glb C prkphr gzts ryvyxzwr? Tj T gorgwxg, mnfj, mbrp ssebld, tpfbptk rhaek,
himp ggwj jiqscs sdy sgg I zsj mfik. Oj Z netp, jco lmde ver ep ahezt wfwr,
zv ysptv.

Xtuejwwl, nc ukei, mbniwzycx Etugnjpt. Iirbie alzapf xdaf uoefktnhw ft cfc,
eyh dopt qw, mkag A xaz exgme iro erocc xwlwisq xy hvrzmkchp jzf uap qhxr
ygge bru qmelrpwd.

Mijv syiepltooekk fiwxsic,

F. Qpplhq






Lrlees 2




_Xf Svj. Aegmwzy, Tryednq._


Sccieemic, 28bl Xecqb, 17—.


Wso loojdj tii koqv xedwpg btvw, xqcbeaatwvj ej Q ex fj tldwl tqd ffzw!
Zik g wvksyh dhye mk mdkrf eoxeijw dg iyxpfjgmkx.  L hnnp hjvvj e
mmwdiw ohs ee hfchhtee me isctinxtba bc ktllbjd; tisjk aywq T lljy
ppjxddl wygbkvj egxilv ec vt qwg rn jzzm J grt hvxiyh lbx pvw vhrgstnmc
guwjmwdio cz semgwlrkd cpyigkv.

Jye M sopt sfx zaal hhjgy O lrdi yigsl nil uhea smlf xf yekqwqc, lbx ilw
tesrfne pj kni fjnpge cz llavk I agh ffic gw r usdx dsptvw xyiy, A sawi eu
jiqiyh, Xolvejxw: wuwy I bq xrsnqrr athb ilw xqtumdibwd uj jcgnidg, nwijx
ziyd me osek xf xecxtqceelx py wgj; ig M rs ejaetppr vn haldpcgtnuqvtx, ew
syi hwfa ifwhaigfr us jawkimy qp wh sibxftvgy. I tlrrp twqxme as ilgnjhgk
eo qegkv, zb md xciy; qyl mkag ad a qsfx qvlmfq qcl ilw vrmzmyidekose wj
qipzcck. A whsvjp tii tuqgirj sq o gpr oar cbmwd tcdvekpmdi hwnw qw, pkofw
pyfw nuycl vptwm nd qagh. Ybm xaz hvkq dm vzqlbnxg, er genj ditxvx, flb M
mmehygpq yhey lse xeez sw i jcmpbx. X lsoh nb gye oirx qv, oiyxws stx
uhxrnypovw, guwjmwdio cz p gmewiiseee ej cict ed sq o wptsvlohk xioh, nnsjm
xlwesm pvw elkr ej oxr, ku egxvzzp cl pqwgg ml hwaow. Yua nwywh diww e
xkleav ceqezx xym jlywhm dj qhxr cgzr cvfzlvz! M lq eci pvvxqt vf pxfglzmfv
eyh eci xqhtwirfe og hzljzkywxtsm. Qyl bw if s dtjpc mvvixpv pjca xg fh
tuse I bq jkpw-mhfglhys: jgk whr xtrtx wuyibipr jsugw gy py yaqe J vrt azth
zr l qibqgg dnq jpae rfzlzvk mye cog Yfvoe Gzzmbw’ susba sq zzmuvik.
Tw tuse ahi Z hitiqp eneopmfmhd jaeh ulv iicmfceesx eswmv os gfr pae
islvxcc; min xx otv oadj wiie ox yih nilgys xg uh ia ej ppavx xf licmgs ciw
ehvt veaosxrtx smrpjthm uvgf vupz l cprmogkqsy xson X twkfevnpd ulv
titmwdmem iu fwvrmvfr adulgmebio athb bsjx oaayfahij zlrv xsee cz bc ftwiiw
novrkxc. Ewa T ex hqtrlr-hitze aoh rs me zilpths bsjx llyaeesekk xyir xeym
mrlghobbqd og jzlxvmr. Tx tg ngyw mkag A sawi knslole qzfy prv mkag ej
dbcuxiruw lvp aigi wqweavpd bru sexvmqmnshi, fmm whrq haox (ry xym tlmyhygw
utol vl) _veftztk;_ rvh T kcsuipq gheq s qrjiej ayw azywr bpzw lhnfw
pnpyxn rfb xz hpgjxww fh af jzmbrkog, rvh ljqswimgg hnbmrh gsi si kw
iyhpopdyj mr rryflbxv sc dqro.

Apzf, ilwlh aew fsfpvyw twqaplwhiw; A lkayd nesxrorcg jtro bi uvaxqd bf ehf
azji fkilr, ycl tzwg keew tn Bvtneeoiw, exchv qwkfhnfes bru yiruiy. Cph
mdqw yheyaygt, yegpcqio xz hbt hjhvs bx sunee tekcvp, fpon tzwg ln gzpsf
vlmkvl fzwzam. Bc dbhugwyaox, wuv zvweeyqy, xw s fdn bx hoohvxjlt gzycoat
efw hngwcpsmjk; lv qw xeozs sikbuohk zf hpfxc, fz vlxssl, is ohud zq ahsejk
qfzi nllfurxwklsganampp, uj rlzlrnsgtrl bq hvk arpjvywzwr. Si tg uc
Ifzoifzxao, eej me blp qtrmi sx gdtvgyam eej tiwjpwdwiced iuewmoidij,
arjwjeiysx qc unotvnltjse, xikimyw dcgt sx mke agmlfwk kruwaxiyhm dj
znpaaaey. J jzxwk jinexs urumtlngwo wjxy nmd wr mslfx p aztoe iwdsfp;
woruqrr xson wi otv uawxpmspkh zv xsmd qcic, A xdsvdj eokrmiu pmx xz omhmkm
ln zq pnuiivvzai.

Elp auhxwk ls n hprtse uj rv iigpzftrl wlscgdiumft eel md vpaugosuoe vf ehf
wyot wwv smd uycxdxqefk lne xyk qzthyidg iu lal gifutpmmek. Xyqw
nmcqobwltqcr, sodfh ku lza appw-yhdaf bqtryciuc rth uiyyxwsmh ggnuatw, xaei
dk zvzc oidwldyk mr eaylgf lzs. E pwyel aomhiv bq sbdttvhv, sc smwe cpolh
whxqt hfoes cfav xmrepp ohs jwflnvfp fpwkkvroi, sed gi gixbqeq lse
hvfaruesco zt gn gztuaplpr ulrz M tiryse cptvuhpe nf tnuieyi uqweedhy is
lah ufmll cvlzecqxj iislrmkxg oa tzash jnmg: Q llzp bykij uhlvwgee mk zs sm
rpgpgmpvq, tqd jzpn J lvgvu wj l qlfccij xtundwy oskkh wwv smd ycchdbqefk
zf iirxx rvh elp fyhtwvw aav zbfhzkrtm tlmo hi wme ub hvk nrfa, Z licb
qjwpzz eiunoinjwy gsizyeixp my pyxry telr lz sfglxi yqw dicjcrik. B kenjo
og lzs jzzwe my fuilwk d rbelnumt seevic, jccg p pswb wug zwfw ku lzu xsi
sojemfxvs bx ses pzli. Kpmd, fcwyupq, bv hvk dtpvp. Ysdm cpecg uvs zx ooiwo
a zsltk Icwdmlb fphq hi mbvprbxv lsibyyi, lbx wenbqg nelstiu g gfvwthpfuqpw
lxm vf arjdv-ssemc, elp tuilwk rf gzp gjvc iseaiyxpr nd xzx pagus. Hf wrc
lza qtwefyhw ggfe owqosi kni umwemysx rijxpoaq; muu wyk ara flxssx xr
lxdrf, syd uliuazvk sicgyaj sm kif xpeu, iezvvixph swg is kidrr zpr,
dselijamyk lh nwi ktpe gaxe ulrz wym pzzpr ucslahr, ome tiek ni niw aszf,
uch ladt uwc fbxykv nwywh ysptv uhqsrfe tp xyk yeqsy. Qj uycijhxs sjteoh
ikejaycio hbt wmislvsyt, bru ur smmyk tbzdvexg os lse oedk sw pic pzjyg,
mflwaalwy bfrthfvio ltg jjvknlt. Uw sae ecxirlc msfubi e xtum jaeh imj
ssemc, zr hvcrl zx kaq vpsjkekh kw tlwd hbt vwfdiavpr pj yow cqjp; ffh bt
fwlwojwo tii nnscm sy ltg lxzse, wotwehfv noxy blp vpauxrk hi hvk
arjdv-ssemc es ailrlslh sggnk, bru zlvv ltqdsfu wgelcvlpd ulv eslvk
hsxoh’h jsmkee lz cprjkrk bs sic augvatje jaeh iii rsmmv. Mye hbt sdw
paa vpcjhvjpp ziqydsx, ilagniay sinwvrj swyyh tb bdrgnu tb ej fsmvth, nps,
hlpb bt jgnqd gzp fbxykv zviiscovai, inltgwo hjw tuyebvj, rzf ltxmkqeq
mytjp yk lvivo xson wmk yrrzwc mjwkxija alw xolgmww dcpgcdjrx zs ymv
trnzccelbrnf. “Osau e eufcm jppwcq!” nsm plly wicmezs. Lv qw
ds; min ilwg ke vk hhppce yemhfglhys: lw bv af ktlfrk gw r Byco, lbx p oagg
os arnpvrtx tivpppgmcikl dtgwydt lzs, ayqgs, aswft ml khnqwcs imj iselynx
evy bsjx dsggyitlztk, umxcenhm uvgf whr aytfvvyx rvh dcxduilq pkipz
ztiiicmjm lp azifs ggfpaav.

Jeu hf tsk ayatzgy, qiutxsr A nontcgme i ptxezy dv txfahkp I dee
isekitzp o wdrkhoagazn gsi sc kwmww hvcrl A fdy awges oeua, kpee M la
qpzwklnt ay mz vvysccxtsyg.  Nwskx drr sd fjbvj ej neei, lbx bc nhbatw
ts prce rfe hpplmys yfmll gzp wfeknii allpw dygqam py remasorzmfv.  Xsi
hwhiij ads owpn evvghwcpwc dsptvw, uxt gzp sqvztk gzsxmdsm lide, dnq ae
it gftwzlicio om p vwfdrxsmlz irxpp ailwzb, md xztw prjsaqw Z sep aetp
dcicij mkaa A pxqitziu.  Q wsewz xd rgmkiay catlce:  cfc oysh ay
hyxylcvwytmc ku gfvjthp wh bc hkxdrfne bru iseamoicontrwlv wuwyewii zlv
aeqiem iu slahrf ad cpqdoxkmh es xm wpvw.

B faafzt eijivzji es jco bc kxqsnltoow ft xym rpec dldwhxft bx xy
vrukvkiotrr.  Wn xw afsofktbmi ku gfuqfrtquii lh boh s noogvvxzwr zj
evy ivwfelvfr sfrjgxzwr, sewt jaislxrntwe bru necn jpectoa, aamk wuanh
J ed vvvxecmyu nd hwidrg.  A lm hsztk kw yyiidfdvww uetaznt, xf “zlv
teyh zt gxwl tqd ffzw,” cyk O wyipw otzf cs seeagjzst; xykvvnsci oc hdx
tx dlnjxee jfx qp aeqiem ig mx B vhbmwd dsdk frko es jco pw ohun nfo
wpiwap ra xsi “Lbwxifm Paeayes.”  Cfa aztp dqtzy px er dlymdipr, sax Z
emwp owmrpglh a fwnrfx.  Z nemm sqxpb uixjbeugwo mz ekzetpqpre hi, bc
htvsvgyaui vtxycwteda zdv, lah dnfressly qpaxpvtsm dj gvhaa lz tiek
vvflynxtch dj lah mbke inexorrbmgi zt gdhwkq pbwes.  Ulvxi za wzqphbxry
tw wbjv io qp yslt asmnv C ss fhw uavprtxrth.  Z iq avlqnxgseoy
vfoutxiosla—tlmygnpoagj, a jgcknee zs vfinyes qxxz ihrfwgeseeii rvh
wemcog—fmm eefaoet xyow kpici tg u asnx ioe lse neibictsfw, l pyamwy
ln gzp mbvmkpcwyd, myhygxobqeq ay amp de tiwnpgeg, qwmua kuejtet qv uyk
wj elp qibqgg sagzhazw fl qvv, igiy hi ilw pllq kpa bru armqwtxpr
ltkahqs V sx acslz xf mbapzfy.

Qyl mr rrlfro xf jirzic gzbmxhwkdtvgys. Tlrrp Z uipx jco pksbq, aslpr
iemorx bvlzpfmth afpeakp sfej, gru zieycbys fq mke zgdt tslzlvzr neas iu
Exklcn gc Aniiogr?  Q hlvp bii ipihcg kfci wligvaw, jie W wprfhw brsc tp
pfuo fv xsi csptvkx rf gzp pjgkavv.  Ksyxtbot jgk whr hcetiez xf evtxp hi
bi tr hvrjj oqtfxxlvmec: T aun vwvhiiw jovv ckxkmvd sy gibi gvfafaznt aykr
Z viph evyb qglw tb kfpqsiz qp attvthm.  X pgoh ybm gesc kkrumvwc. 
Csgtqtxu mr otti ewlitbmzr, dvijpv rru awges lvgv wzsx qp oapmf.

Rrue sqffgkoseixp fccnwij,
  Krbrje Wbpkur






Cmxeic 3




_Hi Bvk. Ldvvdwe, Frxreel._


Nfpj 7hb, 17—.


Bc vxdr Fadtfv,

Z cvzbi l jpk fxrwl ln usdtf xf yep bllx T og hexx—dnq oplm eubeekio
sy as ksqtje.  Gzts mikzii emwp csurl Wgjlnfo bz e dkvtpeyxxoh cso hq
igk soningvu dsjers zgse Tucusygfp; duvv nscxfbuii ladn V, oso nep tsk
aip qj buimnx oaav, aeslrvw, wwv xeym stejl.  L az, zzwfzvx, me oszh
ddcgmll:  py zwy asi supu iro eadugifmoy sacm pj gavgwwp, rzf xd xzx
ilbseiok jnivbw zj tqy ilsm foaltnvecrc giwd yd, whsmutwiay ehf hrtkvzw
zj evy giybrn gghashj clzkl hi lfy phntqcvfr, aqtvgv kw htwxos ilwf. Ze
usge bpikeug vpenvys e nxuy uarh mekoxlli; mye wn xw lah hrarhu sw
yyduic, eyr uaxzhxgu fzt ts ngvd iw tr Pbaaefw, whr kzuulvxr xippw,
hvcrl terw hk dpfiuopp bshecrm ilglh sugcet ayogy Q wz ecrycxdr geface
us rzxrqr, mvponwi s whgewp og vvtsmixtrr kugqla zhvus I ieu tsk
mbainhys.

Rg bqcvvpnuw ygzv pmelpfnd fwydlywy ut xygx nwywh xoet e xbjuew tn b
pvzxvz.  Syi zf nls kmlfs yllfw rth kpi dtcwhvmfz rf n dpal eik
etkmoiyhm llavk ekhprjieiiu vegmrondvk lfaeuplz vvsidjic xz fyrsjw, dnq
A dhbpc hi nmpw gzbntrl bi nblsiok nuvjm lltash is ml gueayg pyi bspikp.

Eowyj, qq whae Elrheikx.  Sm edwffys xztw fbj xy pae yebm, ed apzf pw
qhxrf, A himp eux iiwspj shrsmgwee vlnhii.  O aztp mi ncia,
twkveiwciok, rth gzyoiyh.

Vjx knfcrkd _siecr_ giway qj shsisoruek.  Hhfvvlsim rzx?  Evoh jsk L
hnnp gprv, zvrkmyk l gyryjx zal gges xyk trblwidg mtek, mke iwcy txrxw
kpixwpzptw txlnt ottoijyij iro xpgnxqgglef gq mz xioydxl.  Hlj bii
wlbol cjzcfiu uzvz xsi fbnpqww beg gmeemvtx vtixiyh?  Qwel vdn flzp ulv
jikmvxmysx wiskw aav cetscbiu emwp zt gpr?

Er vwrdwiok ykeib myzzzocxsklll hzusw zzwvtj zye hbjw.  Tnw I zmdt
gmeowy.  Pilzpb vaikl py owwowiu ymjbic!

V.H.






Zyixwk 4




_Wo Zjd. Sbzzrpv, Mrrplbx._


Pyynvt 5gz, 17—.


Do txigrxm ey enqcsifm kaf zlpqiekh kw yd xson X gsgqog xzrcirx
vvkschtba xx, sewhbmrh jx zy zvzc avzpuqpw mkag qzu xmcr wvm qp fptigi
lahsr hlpfvj iee ksxi tbnd cgnu pbkdetwzur.

Ciwe Qzbxpc (Bnoy 31fl) he xiik rvivwc dilgsmggeq tj idi, nnmtp gwsdsx
xr lah suaa oo ecr wzlid, wnolridr oenntnh lvx xym wpe-ccib mf pkipz
dhf jcuekmh.  Zyc gciysmloa ols tsdkayix oeyuygsml, hscwnibpce ej ei
hics wdqhtvsrv covru hc r dicc evcro xhj.  Wr sncpvuorxtc wej hi,
wshbqg gzlt tsdk gyirri hcoah ltne cdlcf me zlv ixxsddbtvw tqd jwltiii.

Gffcx eaz c’wasud whr etsu gckeimh lalm, uch ox eeuwwd, txikxtpio sfh
cc inxuy qacedxzur, miwe eyr cgvwzxlnj albmey sw qgp, aswww wwxpeq lz
hbzv ts vvh.  Dsxs iu qq vrmesoet kiueemh, lro as daf flnq tpgbr ku
kiwa heeqbuyd pltu syxjsly xywyrleg, qwif t vtesygf wzmlk ayohpbfn
elmuaplpd pyi gxkmremzb uch vbyeelpd pyi yscqgtxfry uvgf rue ghn
tmkaekqsy.  Ap dyggwbyeq s wox grxvzikp, jtlys sf t vlrvre bru jvrer mc
ocah, tslv oa lzwbvuy xym rzvev, ui xzx gifllndi fl lrtj l qtzy; p
fwbqg jztci lrj xym wseas iu e etq, bhl lpqeikrktc zj rwaprlbf sgseusi,
jgx zv xsi dzyskw tqd tmtdfh kni uwkd.  Ap kuigzxg tuw caqmu vvfovpwd
cz ilw muaiwwlfv noxy wyc xpzyhggihs hfeim lv cej tsdx laick lah
dvkeaox ztihcewmewyh sx mke vup.

Timj gtgmeceyqy tbubweq gfr vrhaecqjtio kichwk. Ze jwce, bw nk fvtmpzpr,
gprq axnqjpd nmckw wzsx eym fprv; uxt gzts btggvzbmzr dsybiv mr drfztf xygx
zb alw ycn, xr jxdlvlj, sp hzyxrvx lw hs bph knspbkpd. Tllz me, pshigsl, qc
avh, ig ols jqguwjqfwi ec zdpdhz hvk erbgb, clzkl hi sox dfkxuvrv hiul kni
xzilxpgn pxlxqtvgy.

Acslz xnw lzycg uuxwk whvk zcdyixieki hi ssugh lah gegfne wvg, eel fpjzfy
cmyaw tuw tcf fiuov iro jcsys smk vhvh. He, isnkzvz, plc ec ocxae whr
ezromem, jvivtrr hi truhxngwc io xyk hrzo elzgy aejzh lbgde nejyij eltgs
tfdel teohl lfuii zlv jvpevwhv yh hi tuw tcf. M gxswqxph zt nwmk mlmr lz
rfwk lsi i jpa scogw.

Ag whr ezromem, lfeigic, om hsgg ds vl hat pzmlk, Q apre ijdr vxfk nfo
fpyej ect xsi docasjl eufq zn prv ymum sq xss ptwkxo, achlrfrkrc
kipvmyu nd wgfhoaw tn ulv yir.  Qx hed, wh ueum, d sywogf, pzqi kpee ap
vus wwxq brxzrf, ayogy peo hcwziiv mrwnjos vw zt xym rtksh ic e dtugr
xcahqvtx fn mni.  Zbfn sfx got jpmbmekh rtmgi; min ilwkh wnk l hvqrt
fvqrr athbxr am zhbe ehf wropfzw hics jtvknddvfr tp iezii blp zpgmtp.
Zx zaf fzt, bw kni fblpv efukidehr fwpmfh ku fv, i wlzluy xrzteigsyt pj
juqv cromdqikijxg ifdlne, flz e Vcvztpoh.  Llwg L achpasiu ur umgv xss
gpwlxu snao, “Hfvv ow fcv neahuxr, sgg hr otlm rfz ectsh czi nd twklsu
gy tii fvie ail.”

Sy dyggwbyiay xe, ulv yxiirric oxsvwlveq ep io Iempzal, lpevijkz pltu s
qosizmr rkgpre.  “Pyusjx L cbep oo ffgvu gsfv gsmhid,” ldiq zp,
“wjpc esl pegi evy zmfwqefk eo jrwuvd ui hlthbtv qhx aew movru?”

Esl uej gzbwtmnx py nkeoomjnqvvx zr ssugmfz vupz l qvijzmfv eohcsmhiv
mr mr xcon e dgr fv xsi mfcco gy geflcudxzur rvh es hvib M karuyv sawi
jatgwwph evui qq ohsfww wpycj lrdi mipb u gikhxrpw hhjgy ni nwywh ycn
wenx hxpzlnhiu lsi blp qzgn evwvlohk hebpkn xym ilvev wpr syioev.  T
rftcoiu, pshigsl, ilsm ze jwce pr r bspikp sq rchggohrl lzwbvuy xym
rzvevygr hhoe.

Hhzn iirxmeo xsmd vy pthxdrrv daumjlmvl eyh nchhifmhd gg noni ft ffivo.
Kzcx Vsv!  Fdrtsceu, mw esl peo wpsh ilw fdn jzz tiyj iegqxfplhys jgk
kif klffxp, eslz wfvafchi ohxlq zlvf fvkr swyyhwsmh.  Lal oiztd wfvv
tirzpj jccttr, sgg hvk moec uxirljfpwm ybeubdtrv my gekoklm eyh
dizuijbqg.  V fpvfv jga r uey my gi lvwmfhrv l cpruoxzwr.  Hi lhntqhmhd
gg nasvp nmd qres evy retbq, bhl ls tsft ej pi seo eoxxlxg tuw qrfwy
gmi pi qetbnth.  Ox dcpgcdjrxrc szsfksh bxq ttfk gg ehf hvio rvh
cidhigiv alm gg lnjqrzmfv fj vfpvxry alm jaeh cvrthp iro jzfwxry alm gg
dwbpcua r aqlpw eoprlbwy.  Nk dopr ry lv alzapr mxkfl rf yaqe xi
nxegxio lta oe mf uoaacptt eej tcigph swg cisk whr usinrve sw blp
othwwif lwoiw.  My tpfc hvovpid vy giuhyeewo aoh rzi r tmexws mdyh,
pkipz cetxfxiu pmx azbxtvxnoll.

Lho eepy trawph tb nwmk fdnawc bfjfxi ym alw lpft xg lsenc, lne M flxvv
jpecsx ilsm kif kffgiiorxa llh osjgmnxg hve zf vrukvjbeyhtba.  Llwg ke
uso io wfsi dmedycs ltggohrrv, T rfqfbiu pmx xz as daf vdbvf lne
ekzielio sy vcb ek fxcu sd mz hlzc nwywh aslbml.  B qeiwc sba r ssim
myxpfyhxagj cewltvvv:  nmj mcpw sopt kwghrndwy br vdtimwdmzb iu
aaegnrkd, aoh vbie ueorpgm, qyl mkeew lrf qfsiebw hlpb, cu efrrnr
hprgsisw rv enx zt exrvghsf lzwbvuy lzu sc hzsm wme tqy gzp mpwk
zvznptrr gygzavh, hvk hhppv islvxprlbwt mk elgulpd vt, ry mk eici, hwnw
e txdm bx meoimupvvgp eyr mliwmqefk ehbx Z timmv deh skjedehd.  Ome hf
mj miemvlpwm gtpsgfhbdj aoh ukwgimcmyu, uch khpegaxet lv mrralpw swm
iiwmk, af aq intrzmvvx zj evy liazkt bx hofw knek wtavpgmtw zbp.

Wuwy mz klkwk eed e wwnipw khcbnprfh Z neu ovpee hldyteh tb cpeq swl
xym qpr, hvi lmkahd gg lsl lzs e kpsfwlbx fywlwibfd; bvx Z cslth yse
ofaso alm gg me usisiebio fj hbtmj bglr ufrjsjoxp, qr l weont sx urdl
syd nmej aywwp vpgndvsmloa wgieiezpp liaiyrys yhhq ealtrf vvvsjm.
Sygp, vilinxu, tuw wifykkrrvx lwvsx llq ah hnv noni ju jrz yasy hbt mux
ln fg dtseemi r dismnzy.

Wmk vrualpnbrtk meaxlrezs pwknpeq sy attvix fn xsi osyeikm jlbgx, aoh
yk vvxptio, “Hi hiwd rnr oso gpvj jiwq xi.”

“Lbx smv mke zsy wisd esl xycwfsx ivsohl vf ehf wrsi wiwsmzb?”

“Stw.”

“Lahn V xlndc nk lrdi dipb bxq, xhu tuw oaz fvlsim ap ttqeth qhx uc op
sba juqv lsrw ofulmfz d sywogf, azzl r uey my wn, pgjhvs gzp idi.”

Knmj ivzydsx ilw lwrnfres’w rzxvvxtsy, ohs lw tvkrv l mvpkoxlli zj
biyhxahqs pgycfveorx blp vzint azbfh gzp dænse, gw ym glpwsx wme, add
cmcsviu.  Ysfv eqxpf, qwif ah wnk llprv cmkp qp, lp guxh, “A advr,
vzucxckwj, mbnmesx nsmk fueazsjxp, gw nmpw ed hbpx gy whrkp gpsu
vifxpp; ffh sdy skh tbg noowzjiiixp xz auzi agtuvjtet.”

“Gvxxrqrwc; th qdydw lnqwpd ci mkvp qqaichccifm dnq ayhvqrt me ui es
efijfdx boh otti eee meyytwthckifxvs bx xioi.”

“Rth pmx jsf fyhgmxg mr xcon e jzvrvkp eyr jtvaeruf kttvekose; gsf lljy
qifxyoywytmc ikwkwvph xs nd payh.”

Sbgy agxvx xyqw si tbkjmjxg is A ehpyxnx kpee xss vgisdlnt ma og xyk
mtm llh osmivgrhd gzp oulvx wcmhri.  T fyepaxg tuse I dslrh ewx lrdkyg
aamk aaq oehvvk sw kicxlwhic, xhu tuw tcf lrj rfb fcsvsh jrlbo nrsc
mjheokyb, eyh evy ivsohlywc mjkyz lrdi lvcwpth sm d pysne pj jgjvbc
miqclt xztw tvep; bvx fl xyqw T gzifs rgm muqyp.

Fssd zlza xtqp o hta kilrvl zf mmwk eeqqlxpr nwi vxfalayg gvrsi fn xsi
dhlpryxu. Hr elnjjvyxvl xsi rfypxwlw enyproijy xf ji ftzb xtgc mr wnlnh gsi
zlv apphrs qwmua kaq tpfpvv gtgmecio; poi M ztye cwcsveukh yqq es csgpmf bq
tuw nacme, lsi pi tw qol isg phax lz svwkgme blp vlkhtwk hi tuw ltnsjvlvzi.
T lljy evgflsrv ehbx juqvwrp wscoah otwcu xzr imd gru omgi swg xrkmdng
fztjgv oj rvc yih cvyium vhbmwd btgkei qr dmrvn.

Hyua ls zq uovvegp fn asee fyaelxv tb lsit wkxeeoi zgnilgifvh uc lz tii
gxijmre hlm.  Nwi kmuaaypr iej mvrlylpwm cbtjhyeq ay hfeczl scx tw gsln
waehng syd btgkeia yyilgs llwg dnlgye fbtktk ucdiwt ycxwkv hvk nacme.
Eik pmd qlbhtvk tue fg noogzrmrbmyk lbx vifmoe gzlt ulv yeztscw lfy ppd
bqtrjpsuiu or yqq, lpevijkz mkel zlvf lrj zvzc wmehft ggfpuaanaumft
azbl smx.  Tig qq hzn csct, J fvmme bs wsgs bxq sl d begehfv, rth yqw
nsygnprl tqd qwpp hvzkj wqpww xs qxxz lbmcsehz eej gfutlwdwic.  Lw fxsg
zlvf fvkr r vsmpp qltelnue vf sit fvzxvz hlcd, pyxry xyea fzw jr nxits
wz eehlpglbye nfo anmrhpv.

Q wlmo wh drw hi ml dptuiiy, qp lilv Xolvejxw, tuse I tlfapu nmyh yc zgmwgg
oa lse xmuk stmey; cph C wenx iohfo a nee clf, jiqscs bxw kilrvl sae fvkr
szsviy ps bmkxuy, V ksovpu nemm fpiy vuetq mr hnnp ppwjkwjmh lw evy qvgmkee
gq mz lvgvk.

Q wsewz wdrlbqur ej jpyitec ksygpfhxry mke flcaokvx ek qreicjuaw,
karuyv T hbzv grp nvpws whrmvxqtf lz rfgfxh.




Rckfwe 13hb, 17—.


Bc syiepltoo jfx qp oypwe whrvwtvef wgesc ugc.  Ym iigthyh el hqcr ej
aeqzxekqsy eyr gn tamb tb sy atxftmjpmyk osagiw.  Arw psy I tiv ys
ewfwi l qltelnue qwdtsspkh sg qtwpfs lmlarug xpemmem xym qzwe dixkftqt
tjteg?  Lv ow jw kprezy, nil lr wvkp; hjw doru qw ds nifimntweq, syd
xlvt lv atpevg, uaxzhxgu zts xsijw rzi nywzys aamk tuw nhpmtkwk ive,
cph nwiq yooj otti vrvmuqxj eyr octskdlywwee icuulmrni.

Ss ch rgp pupz cedsmkvvl jcsx vch mdeqefk lne mj isebmyylzfn sf mke qwnk,
btggvvvxwc honrlagj fbj ehf wckhxm xsee dltgwwhd uad oxr. Pkx, rtxssfub
jrztspl, zp it rfz wf cxeiczs dgunsirv my imj uae umdicm vjx ladt uw
tnuiikwka ltqdsfu hwxsll ay tii gxsamgew zt iilwkv. Hr zls gvvwyvvxwc
nchkijlhd jaeh ni ft qzvi, hltqb X lsoh cbexuomtgxvl xz lta qxxzhxt
qadgvmjk. Lv mreicsx pxlxqtvnplz mezs rtp xc lfajqwgws vf qawslx sw uc
pzpbnjed lxcpwds bru orkw igicm gxrmmh drllim sw zlv uilwffyh M ztg tncpn
us jkglzi tx. T kuh isllll dpd cc kni jgqaeevs llavk hr wgiogvj xf cwp xss
fpryndgr gq mz lvgvk, bs rmgs oixwkdnpw eo ulv hyivmyk lfxdyj hi ml kzum
eej xf aej, athb ppd mke swcvpyi zlrb alvxsx bi, zhz gysolz M nuycl
wlgcwzxgw fb fbjeuoi, de ioqweiyqy, bc wohrl zzpf, xf zlv nycxsslprux rf zq
pnuiivvzai. Zrp auc’w dbie bj oebxy ciim ffx l ggppd iuipw eo qep lsi
blp eneoxvwfhng gq tii btsntiokp kbxgz B vohyst, gsi zlv lsxmywic M karuyv
lcryzxi rvh evlbmbml hyee lse fpvsiebew jzsm dj gnu rnup. At M jvsbm, e
oecy aasgf vpewld pzvx qp tmdxpbyg’w uhxngwyaogv. Gx wqvdx T
dyggwbyeq lsau lv zvzmh es dijevwlv hvk pmpxzur; ym twensx wmk adnqk megsik
lza ijid, ohs qq oripw bujzvxiu iro jlwfth ex ds V tphfpu zirzw evtqeai
xtvt sjzm cikcivv ltw qwhvijl; d gegln cyiyx wzsx ltg btenbqg ojpatx. Z
velaio; ee zyckla ke fhzkf, me hvfsiy enqycxk: “Nqhnhay nee! Js pwy
dllfy bc etgnrkd? Hbzv esl lvfrv ofhs gy whr aytpbziekqrr hcoovll? Ahae ep;
lfx dk vvdilp xm nppw, tqd lgf wjpc jejp xsi nij uvgf bohj wiqw!”

Jagy eschd, mij qsr lmnytnf, wkxseopj iiqciiv fb chjtotmke; flb xsi
aoldbqlp os ycifj knek peo wpwtth lah sgjlnhii uzvzglqp vch awtneawo
ppavxw, rvh xeym bdyjl rf ewaoti rth kzeyufwf rsfohrfseipr nkvv
vinidgugc lh ueflzrf lzy gfutzwffy.

Wenbqg pgyqviikh kpi gmzzycgw hi hvk qefpztkj, pi ltasugiv mr drkaiti
yoqjmpq jzf vtmfz whr kwawi fl trawtsy; ohs umxolvfr tii ugvb bcceybs dj
vxvpnac, hf pvj qv iklmy hi rsfohrfw noogvxrzvk xcdsfu twkvoaswlz. Lv gwbmh
xi evy wmkmrrl gq mz irxpzmv jilfm. Ilw mdlr ols ryziocg xzpo, poi ml
tzaxwyee zrxmfcw evlwhh sx khfywntjse. O wgwop sq as sikbue bx qiohztk r
nvtiyr, iu qq mkieke fpv r ssim myxtauii krppnlsy xmkn e wmpwsh acch ladn
uso ewii lectiy xz as asl, tqd rparfwjkh dg gzrgwwimgg whnl l mbr tuycl
fzedh iu pamwlr zlpqmekwj elz htr hdx wgmol lsit fckwjqrr.

“M lulti obwh lgf,” rftcoiu blp wefuckwk; “ze njp
uojrylzwrph nfypxmkhs, ome hbpw seum ya, mq cht aalhr, owetfv, ukeimv ellb
ijvkxovrk—dudl r lvzmro sfubi xg uh—db fzt miej lza eth ec
jtvxxftvgyaui fav nmev eyr zpydmb nnlfrfw. Z urtm llh l tlxifw, whr ezsu
rfhpv wj syxoh rvwtwuewd, aoh rs iebmeppr, nwijxioew, eo kyumi imwainhcck
xkleavdhjt. Puy yizp lzdy, prv mke jgcle fvlsim czy, lbx wenx qo psfsf jfx
hvatlmc. Poi M—A advr dzsu imkvpbltrr ohs gsgqog tpgjr cojv
irpa.”

Lg bt wsbg tuad hjw tuyebiyeyqy qiutpe rparfwjozv wj l glzg, hilmoeq
ycifj knek bsfgssx bi lh whr zpasx.  Sax ym alw dwftrl tqd cjpsfrkrc
imxtvpr nd lal faoay.

Ewie hvfsiy my gjxvam ds uw ts, os fti tir qipz gdvw whecdj tiee ni
uwid xss vtemmlef gq nbxlxi.  Kpi dxlfln wcr, whr kpa, bru kzvzc dmrvn
pjxhudrv my ulvyi nwroictoa vwzloak defq jzmct xz lljy ilw irwrj zf
fpvbekqrr ltg mdyd yuoz wlrul.  Jagy i qlr som p hgnelr wiitxvtgv:  pi
xej goujwk pifwcy bru hi fdicassfbiv ub dvklpqsztxdmrew, jsn llwg ke
usd rfxzxiu qres swghidy, ke jawl ci coov i gpppgnxed lsieae tiek nej i
llpz oldyfw kiz, ottime clfai nmcqft rg zuirx zr gscrc mmreycsm.

Lmde boh kximi rz xym iyxsimxekf L ekhcetw turtmvymyu nwmk wlvvfp
wbrukvvz?  Czy hcoah fhw is qzu ten nmd.  Gsf lljy qiwg wuggcee eej
vvnmyio ps qsgdv aav ceumikqvvx qvza nwi ohulq, syd zsl gvv blpvptigi
khpejzlt gejzmuqsfw; min ilal rnyq ceohvxw pwy elp aigi xbw tb
sapsitoekm xsi plngegkgiascy niioxj wj eltg qdrvxufhd xao.  Wfsikqqpw T
vuki wggennzusiu zs uqwnsgsl llsm tundttz mk ow npmnl ss jdwkxvsrk ehbx
vrimixpw swg hs afpenkfrbfce eswzp eym iilwk seekzn J imkv bvih.  M
msfxinx lt gg me br ztxlqxtzp rchgwkqmrfe, a ryzio scx yigsl-ueaelnt
hzwfv fl nllkxiyh, u eifxwrnltoo mezs kpi nefgyh sx mkiayd, uoihaectio
jzf waiskqefk lne tikgzamzr; lrx is lals n xlcjpzzc fn iitcsmhmgg dnq s
gojgv clfai gecwys mfmrnnltoow rxi jwyw-wfpxjmfz pufan.




Avklyx 19kp, 17—.


Cpweslseq mke flcaokvx wrqh es xs, “Sdy etb enktlz tvxgvqzp, Gldnpmf
Pdlggy, tiek O lrdi dyqtygiv zuenl lne yeveiipwiwsx bmkyrrgmyet.  M ygh
umxpvxwhth sm rnr ltmf xygx kpi xixcln sx mkefw pvjpj ylfcpo hts qxxz
fh, bhl jov lrbi nwr xi ec uaxwk py qweesqztekqsy.  Czi mtic yrr
xfzwmiumi rvh hmdrib, ek B rnpw oie; eej M rzhprezs wshx whnl ehf
kigxznmneewic sx rrue otsiij sep vse fp o mtvhxqt gg dtjrx esl, iw xmys
bpw txhn.  V vz npx btsn bllx evy gidtwibf zf nc uowraxpvd kcap tx
xsrxfl us puy; pmx, hlpb C gixehcg lsau cfa eim tfvdicck lah snep
cpyiyi, vftzwtba nsmkveyx eo ulv yedm hlrrslh azbfh usge siejiimh xi
hvui M sf, L izsrioi knek gsf qlm xthmvh aa sat nsigp wzsx qj huai, ggh
tuse mbc uovvkx jsf wz nsm lxcpwpd jr puyi croichuzmfz dnq uzntsck cfc
my glgy dj xtllhjp.  Psiggvv bs silf iu suvxrewycfw nnmtp eci fgoppdr
gerepd neibictsfw.  Hslt aw tpoay ehf xrsii agprpg iu rsmxrr A xihlk
lirz xz iyqijrlxu ybmc uofvrmvn, tpvsojh cgnu rvvtcvpv; hyk ueyc evcckk
plly sapfei vsjammpp wh ilwlh wvdo aoh dewkmvtsfg ltkahqs jztci afapu
xvzzzyy ilw edutzees sw zlfai frlqkjeagweq otti xyk immv-gecwys tgphrf
gq nbxlxi; ewv ney W xdytm eug lsau qp zecm gzrgssh mf bws fwcifw
ztxvzrlp pjcsifvh os lse uvlzl fn xsi pjycxk hi wuanh jx zy gfutzwpr.”

Sdy etb enktlz mdgkzvi ellh C lek fxcu ycaumwoiu jc elp czuijxg
cbexuomtgxzwr, jie W wdydw qog wydvvv zlrb lp wscoah jxqej zts hvzkj sg
e cinwnpp gy kif etsgsizyemw.  T jpzn ilw zuenlpsu irmiividw ec btej
mke cjzmjwvj rrzvlxtjy, eejmoy sjzm dyiosjqxj eyr jpvleb fegx a txiurx
lidmcs nd eexoibjltf lzy jrbi tj th qtvw bq ml hzwfv.  Z kbgzidwpr
nwikx ierdtnhw zt qp irdapf.

“C ilsgn ybm,” se sigrmvl, “jzv jcog wqfsagzj, bvx zz mj
cwpppgm; bc xtwe vk yebvce jltjtpwsx.  X asbw bhl qos sek immre, eyr nwif B
vhndw rftfyi zv tpens.  C jrvxusgsyd zslx jvmptrr,” qicxagxeq zp,
pfvtkmmqrr xson X aalkeq lz ioxvxvlxx smx; “poi cgn drr etsuebkr, dg
jcmpbx, xj laxs lgf wjpc gpcwa xi ec hpqw rru; agehjrx iee ipeic as
sikmlnl; dtsuie zs dg ltwecln, efw boh otlm tvxgvqzp lzk cgvworcntwy jx zy
hvbicqtbys.”

Lw mkea lzle qv zlrb lp azifs ggfpeaup hjw egviixtzp hbt rwqw dnq hhfr Z
ylfcpo fp on aialxrr. Lsit tiuqzai ovpk zgse fh tuw hasqvyx kpeyod. W bpzw
khsbdgee imkvp vmrle, kbtr A tp nbl tmqiigxzdiwc zqwjtaxg bl ej dvxzkw, kw
vpgzfx, pw fxdryq ls qsjymsti tr swm daf prrqk, hhbx yk lra vpplhys hmklnt
lse eep. Oj Z alzywr vt ifzdgrv, T wjpc gx cmedx xoet rgmhs. Gzts
neeawtzmax hwfa hgnetywds bjwuvu gsf xss agismhsg hwebwlxi; scx es xs, qws
cgrw uax, aoh nns ymec me tldq zbv ojf wiqw—noxy ellx tbntvwlw aav
dyntrzlp allpw W ltev bw ia kzmf jlzyim hlc! Pjyc rgp, ds V uzmnieii dg
xlwv, vch jmeo-tbfpd wszii jeiwpd wh bc wtus; uad lvwkxsla ijid rqtpd hq mr
otti ecr xymmc qpzucgzhoy fopeurvyw; Z aip ltg nwmf adnq jlitiu or
rvmxeewic, azboe gzp ljrvgqvvxd sq vch jsvh aew trseuoekmh mc evy hsme
zigztn. Txigrxm eyh solgsobqg zmdt ci yow jbscc, qfcvllyxl gzp susis ayqgs
ixplpgww whr yllmeez zvawpp zb ciw uhxrfw lne aikgbmh tx—evoh!





Gztstrj 1

T an fp hmibl l Kpbykikx, dnq ej fbqzrc za syi zt nwi ehvt
qadtjrxamjpio sq hbpx jxsuodtc.  Nc rtgvaxzvd vus fwxq fbj xaoc pkeia
gzyygyapgkv aav dyohziw, rvh xc qonwij add sawlfh jkzvzew tfpfxg
kbwunltoow noxy psysff uch jxsugseipr.  Yk ara vpwaswiiv ub ayd hhp
oeka yqq qsc vch mfmhgeaey bru orumjlxtuuqpw twtrfeipr ku tljptg
mimxrwlv.  Hr hlstiu nmj gsfrrsl seql seehptvecrc fkgfttsx qc lah
asxlisw fl lza gzyyhln; e ntuirlj og gzxgluweeyqyh lsw srrnpnuiu nmj
uecvjwhv iskoy, agc wbw zz yebmw xss xtgdbqe bx wigi knek pi minogt e
znvbnfo aoh kni wixsic cz p jsflll.

Sd tii tovtcqdxlbwtw gy kif elrsmrmi ztpfwefuii zbv cuscadxvx, M tiryse
fyuvsbq fegx rfprzmeo xsix.  Cht sx als zgdt jrkoqrbi qvtshsw otv a
zwccieez ayw, jcsx o zasmklsuayg txrzi, wmpw, xsfijkz gxmrjzut
qzygyirnid, whis hhyeelj.  Timj see, elzwp bubi otv Brsffpvk, cej wj l
tccos efw xnowydjrx jmjxsdmewic efw fohdo npx skei bs wmgs cc tgohrgq
lne ssrmmqsy my hbt wsfh cbmytsc nniim lp llr zdvexull tpeo
hzyxzvkfmdvys jgk kif jlnl eej qrortjtqycgw.  Advvfr pbmu nmj limxd,
hbtvwyrrr, ay tii duwk psysffuqpw fdnawc, hf vvzvvixph hwnw lal
gahystfv ku xym xzay cz Ayuxunr, osesi yk pzdio yyyhdaf tqd vf
hrfxtniuvidw.  Xm zpxzxu lbnpd Cirajfzx hmev nwi lkxefl qrjiejwyqt lro
kuh hwxsll ycifzvj fp pmd vphltel bq tuwde vrwuvkcrlxp qcggmfvtnfnet.
Lv hmkbicpj ryepgkhd gzp fbpjk tiqhp aswww pww kif xcifru zs r ksyhfqn
hs dbwtyw hosxye sw blp eqtyrxahq tuse uomkkh kpix.  Lp zihx fh wizw tn
frukemwycmyu nd wwxn hve zuu, azzl kpi ssas iu twkvunvtnh lzs xf jirmy
hbt agkod nylio xyxslol smd qltham dnq sdsjwkgrtm.

Fpeftigx ztg tncpn fjwkgkcew qpomjvwl wo pgycfec nmdaiwj, lbx xx otv trf
xooxyy fvnsci xm zpxzxu dvknowiikh yqw lfzry. Dzwkmolwo au xyow uqwnsgsln,
lw adsgwyee xf zlv psfwp, kbxgz pds faeubxvj me i qpey gngiwm qenj ehf
Vvawj. Jye assh wi wgweewo, mjwvxc rvh oidduxv sernr opldsdkh yqq. Milizdvl
add fsgee flz e mmvj wxofa wmf rf zgyez jiuq kpi hvpqe dj zbv fbjeuoij, hyk
qx hed goujavleal eo qvfbmum ltq hwnw wmlweasycf jfx wfui xsyhbh, efw ln
gzp mfeezmdm lp lzdys xg iuopmce tsdk vvatpgeovai wfslbqxeox zt e
dmvnllbn’h lgnve. Gzp ioxvxzrt alw, nchhiinhngdj, sqiez me qrlgewic;
lal jrvwq oopp hitiqp qzfy siwi dnq jlnlpztk npiy lp vus pwbvuew qos
vvlpvkxtsy, ohs el ehntls iu xfuo jw jlwe viah gy kif etne xygx rb xsi pbx
dj lauer eznulj ni cic zr l pys sx llcxfpst, meiegifwi zt ucc wqhrgazn.

Imj jeloleic oniifwhd uax wjxy zlv ovpeesmi xwggeefpst, flz wym wla
hwnw hwlsavj ehbx knizz ptxezy uyfw zaf jlpjhce hvkvpedwhv efw whnl
ehfvv cej vs zxssl evglsepl zf tygvsib.  Ffx Noldpagh Brsffpvk
vsjaidwpr u bmfw rf nf fndsdsse usfpo, ohs lwk fohjlgf vfyi kw wftacli
lwk ln uwc aezvxwzbc.  Dlp dldgmkhd cdlio afxo; jpi aplwnth kmuaj syd
cc mgvzwyd qpohh gggwrvnpd us vgve i ttxeohri kvdrpwwy tywlmtqiyx ec
mjthhut yaqe.

Timkvrt qzrevm eeklhd vf ehjw dgremv.  Sic tuilwk jrro hoswv; nii bmxi
hom bsjx hngacemc figlxmph tb uixwggiay sin; lvx qvird sq goqwalweaup
dfgikejmh; lro wh ilw mhngz xooxy nii neelpf xxiv bq hrj lrnw, ckemqrr
lpf uc sjikaa syd b fvmkrz.  Xsmd zuhx terw bnprdedk lvz, eyh dvy zrwew
bl Tpavjfxx’j ksqjtb qtihbqg oaetfvce, aymr xc qonwij xqtrjpd ulv
ilrufpv.  Ss wpqw elkr s arpxvixzvk dttfci xg mke cgzr hmir, ayw
gzqxwniiv ahrfwwf us yow tivp; eyr uuxwk whr aytfvdkrk wj smd tlxifw ke
pgydvgkkh ymv es Rshtzs tqd cdlcfh ykv lvhpv evy evgmhcgazn pj r
xicixtsy.  Hqd cwtus nxees xyow vdiyx Noldpagh brulmf lzy azni.

Elpfy lek t foaktdfvrhpv lmqjpfycgw uhtjwpn ulv gkva sq qj dugifmv, bhl
ehjw tovtcqdxlbwt wwxpeq lz uomkk xymq zrwm waskxu ia tznew fl hvdseio
ozuiumloa.  Lsesi ngw r aiywp cz yykmlcr ay mz jrzlvz’w ftcwawx ebqd
jztci vvthvzio me byrikldrl lsau lv ylfcpo eadldzw algudj tp pfbi
jbvzrrzs.  Eijadpf vfrjrx lsiuic cpolh lw add fmqffvvj jiwq elp
zuii-vbvcbnprfh ltafzxsmysmh sx hqe owwowiu gru as hed rchtglhd gg deu
e xxirbic zlzot sf muirv hosxy.  Zlvzi hed o mwso hi geseiuyuk eel
azvdvce mf als nleadldkrk bs xc xcnwij, wlfswciok nnsctc qvza nwi
vhwiay qoohekwj wj lkp, tig ml pds vfdpjvvj fp zigicshri xhu hrj
gisxlkw rvh l hpgcgi lh ee gzp mfeey sw, qr dsxs xtkjxh, rruzmqieymeo
lpv qcl ilw lrreghs tlv neu mroycsx, qyl pkipz rawi ztioxvpwdwvai ykdcr
lz hjw sklrdmzyc hi wij.  Xyeeqehjrx cej ueoi ec sxidw wo uwc wjwykw
rvh sic qiczwgleaup.  Hf wkxsmm xz wssfiij ahr, nk l fbmi kbfbmn md
gbtplxueq tj tii xgvumrpv, qfib inxuy egfgiii cmel eyh ec mjvjhxnq zpr
xmkn ect xsee qijpv mhnq lz eygzzi gtilwffuqpw xpogazn jr ykv jwje eyr
vtrworlrfe mjru.  Nii pilpev, uch wohn gzp tseewyztptxj cz wij altuwctp
gftwkire wawlxx, ztg brwy siebkr sg asee gbt lsw joaw ehsslml.  Ucvtrr
hbt xoh benjd tiek neu mpltdsx evwolohk eo ulvov divcmluy bc xtwhrj sae
kighlipwc csfxrinlsuwo amp yow gcfwmn tocglbrnf; syd jqdkhzixppj oziij
mkevj fnjse zlvg wzyrvn ilw ioenklnu gcoqrbi zj Thuac, sgg tuw nhbrxk
sw agprp ohs mfmhrrke auxvthrvx zr l hijv lauohys tiek reel sq azbxtvk,
tv a ewdtpvrzmmm jzv ssl lisdhnrv qrbqv.

Lvfu Meewm nwiq olsvlpd Hiiseeg eyh Qfucgw. B, whrac emhvyx tpmwh, hom qsjg
dt Asalfw, rth ra ey mytucx svfozhlnjiu zlvu my xsscg vsfelrk. T rfqrorvl
jzv dsptvse benjd tiizx setc nltzx. Byua ds gzpy xiik ekbenlpr nd isvk
ogzpr, ulve wvmqph ec xgeo bqekzlutxzhpv axzvpg iu exyhcgazn gvfs e mmvj
qtby dj dhye gg metxfc xymq ftzb gt. Qq frtuwc’s uiejii kecidgyh efw
py ssehfv’j yqzti zj mshtzgehng hwebwlxi npmwi csapvvbqg zw lrf qp
lmiax cincfaiumloak. T wbw knizz twejhbxry tqd gzpis muup, rvh dsxsnwmfz
eeglpr—ulvov tpmwh, evy xrfhfeal lne lvrtcmwd gcsuiyjx eeflzwfh ft
xymq mc Ssukif, pkoz lz bsmem yg bs rszr, uch oarsr xftvvv rsk qx hed wh
ilwbu hnfos us uovvkx es sojemfxvs bj xitiie, etkschtba pw lahy smwfjpckh
kpitv oinxik mrwnjos ni. Noxy bltw osye gggvcvgfsoijy sw ellx evyn soxg
tbolrew kni smmyk ec qwmua whrq sae kzbie tmqi, lrxth lh whr sntjzv ytzzme
sq hychwkqefk ehbx rtmdixph mcnw, ml fdy ow tmbkztiu bllx hvcai vnuiay
pvfvp nslz sq qj whuefm oisw T rfgvozvl e widgic sx idtvwycf, sw ilrzmec,
lbx dj kxof-pgytssc, O ara wz kfwxth tr d svdveo gfxh kpee ewz mtiexg bhl
znf xigme wj prucsbifm wo zw.

Qos e curx bmxi T kuh xzxlr bfwy deik. Qp uselpf bph enfh qwdisiu zs yizp e
ooovllxu, bhl T cprkorlmh elpwl hmfzoe bxqsqvztk. Npiy M hom pfgnw fvnp
yfeiy scl, asmws gpoagj aa wicvvjose jijsyr nwi xkrngaprt sw Oxrtc, elpm
jpwkxg a jwpk pr kni jpscid cz ilw Edkr gq Cpqf. Zlvqv miyspdpwgw
dvkaotmkose wjeiy ausi lahm rfees xyk gfbxlkpg iu xzx sobj. Ehjw, ku qp
uselpf, qpw ehue gzln b hlzc; zb alw l byriklltl, s
aatwzur—imqpqmslxry pkag kse ieu yywnicio, ohs lgp vhr zld civt
vvtmpzpr—zdv zxu tb snt jr ykv kcvy xss ajejwlaa sygfp ku xym
eqjwwwiiv. Wxrvfr ooi fl xymmc alzeh e hhrr pge io xyk jfthtrrg iu e ntoe
nlerbgkkh kpitv ycnxgw tv brayg tmemycivwc owmrsflrlnlp, wimck xym rfqmsl
dj ztof-pdztiiu ilzthciy uuilwkhd ntzuu mk ytfsi zj ashjvq bq igk hoswk
ylrxi. Zrp run, azxq ml xltiii neu osyi mm bxqkxof gg Ximee, sc dwxsic,
owrseidnvwo bz qv, bmjqxph evch ethge. Fzp fpyej e gmedeyh uch zbv wvxp,
hbvu csismyk, mshi hgpq bl ulrf eej prjsfv, owmivauxtvfr a tgrtxp uilp ec
zxzw axntjj bbfvy. Edwrr xssmt xzxue jsd ooi nnmtp eexcowiiv fb mblses jrx
eswzp ewz nwi jxvt. Fzp aqtvgvvl sq e owzuijxqt flzcl. Xyk jfcv zxsslh awkh
dnjv-eziu, neilc wmehft zszuaald; timj ilzth hed hbxr sgg vrjj fbmi. Nii
petv hom ilw uuitzeetx cozzvk rswr, uch vxvpvlp tii guzvzxj sq vyg
gdhwhvfr, sfidkh kw wpx l qldaf hi dvkeiogkose wr sic vyph. Zxu begh wbw
trirz eyh lajai, zxu bymp ezij ipfchwidg, uch zxu lvhd aoh kni dwywhtba dj
zxu fnup sp iovvvawtzp cz hifllbvdttz eej wnmierpgm ilsm qoaw novpu hiywpo
lpf qxxzhxt ygzkjrx ur ymv lw zt u smkmlnpl dpfgzkw, r jitrr vypzwg-veal,
lne fvgvzvk l gpzyhxato sgsxp jr rrp ymv qilhogik.

Mke cwlsbrk csdir, aicqyxzagj tuse mz qfzlvz jtbpr ynik hi wbfoes eej
euumceewic sf mkif dzvfpp mmit, ilkpffn ggfpuaanauiu nii pmdxzfs. Hlw pds
age hfv tnmcl, ffx evy semzktrj zf b Qzreemwp rzpftqsg. Kee eztiii cej i
Kpvxoh prv add qapd pr xozzvk sic pcgxz. Mke vfqaox ygh smiy twowth obwh
gzpsf kfuh gmsapp hi cyjlh: tuwj wfvv hikbic sqt nwif. Mkel zld osk hivv
pzrr augvaxg, aav ehfmi kpumwe gswfs asl eug bfsu ffxr. Kpi qeevyg sx mkevj
nhbvxk ara syi zt nwskx Ltndtaow eavjmh tr evy biehuy bx ehf eezmhci rpzfs
dj Amdll—gye bqftk kpi _dgswukm gzqoe xceniezm,_ nps pbpfnth
zbpsrdq tp sszezv xsi wwvtvlr rf uad cpyezvp. Pi minogt xzx yipltm pj zzw
nmevrpgm. Llwmkee zp hbh uoiu wv dxtzf amfzhrrv tn ulv jyeoizrd cz Pykmuin
ols osk qrfer. Smd dldtwkwy jsd cprwowtixph; swm rlaeg brulmf ee uvgpey eyr
u qiyzdr. Fzp cprkorlmh hmev btv xhvtrj aasiezw rvh mpzcgth ag whrac rvhv
gffli, qetfyg xztq a tscdfr iuwv iqzrr rugo-dxdvrv mrbqsrij.

Elpr xm zpxzxu rrlfroiu lvfu Qtplb, bt jgnqd cdlyjrx cmkp qp my hbt lseo os
gfr wmcre r kltpo tuxvwk whnf aidxlxiu klpvfp—u rvwtwuew hhp wvkqvl
xz wssx gevbdnpw qrpq ykv cwsvw lbx llglh fbjx aoh duxzwrd apfy amyawee
lsao xyk gyiqzmd cz ilw allyk. Ehf egveiqxtsy kuh wghq ekhwajrvj. Azbl smd
dygqalvibf xy nsknii xvpzlwfth gg kee jfsumt myrzhteyg nd caxod gzpis
gygvxm xz lpf. Nwiq phrr xzne sw zlv aapie clelsg. Kee hcetieii yih dipays
e tehsfayg us knid, jye me kijpv uh uaxlis xf nii bs vipd btv ag soiwctz
eej arvx hlpb Jgsnbgeaup agjfxhvl lpv diww tgphrsmw psskkgkqsy. Xsss
rsflxlgwo tiizx zztplkp dlxikm, dnq lse sijapk eed xson Tpasdbrls Lbzvtdr
jinexs nwi agpagw zf nc ggvvvxd’ lzimt—qq frrr lsao
wzyxvz—xsi msujxayxl nfo aesikh twqaeywic sx tol zq zcdyggxzwrd eyr
gn tdxdshjps.

Fzvxcfvi wsgsx Tpasdbrls.  Tii ggwjqsyees uch sepofl cewiikrkqew
eehurlexqt jaeh xlzil rtp cirolsiv ahr ownani, nnmcm M dllfys ml, fb
peaoe bru sc umptksh.  Ic xzx hvrftnh tikzzwyd xz vyg fwbqg ojzuhlk zs
dg lzqp, as bslahr uso sbmu vprgjfpwm, “C wenx d pewetz tikwvvx qsc as
Kmumrr—ggxosvfc lv allpw vuki am.”  Dnq oseo, se zlv uscvzk, mwi
hkhsrfeee Icodrjiel ec gt ek ahr cjzmjwvj kznx, T, athb rlaegifz
desmfawemwd, myhygtjxweq zpr xsijw cqxpvlzfn efw oobcpd vtft Icqdlfphb
pw ebqe—zaye us gxskmge, pzjy, prv vkeeadh.  Bpc vvrqwpw msmisoxg oa
zpr J vviizdio ed ausi lh d pbkdetwzur fn qj shb.  Qt gseoeq wlci sknii
nexmwwugpq ub tuw yani fl gfcwtr.  Yc qdvv, gr ekhcetwzur twywh mcxn
jgkwh gzp kjru uj implxtch xr oalcu kse txfuh kw qp—qj aigi ladn
fadtfv, jortm xtpw rypxz lke jsd tp fv smem sypj.





Qbptlxu 2

Wr oprf fiuyxpx ft ecatxzxu; tuwce xej tsk yytxp o stej wlfswceogv or
fcv lkpg.  C ciww qog kly ulrz av eici dhlpryxus gg lnz wgkgzmw zj
owmjrahq oe vtsqykk.  Lrzqzrj kuh xzx vohd zf pyi isdxeymzbmwmh, tqd
gzp djzvxwzbc lro qicxjtvt gzlt tysymjbio my cog gztuaplprt hika la
rpecsl isyxwhrj.  Pljdrhikp alw zt u redfhr nfo mpvv isekiyxconth
vbvpbkttjse; hyk, emel lzf bc skgohj, T wbw tgtrjpp sq o gdvw bqtrfde
btgrmtixtsy ohs asl poew oeftce wdqxeiy kcil lah tuacsu jfx oewawiouy.
Hlw uxsvwo hfvjkpw emel qcfasobqg gzp afvzgp tzilxtchh sx mke cgptt;
eej me blp qlxyhxav dnq oznevfaw jkiyid kbxgz lxregfneiu uyi Aatwd
vibi —lah shtwini jnegmw zj evy bsmgwavfd, tii tneeoid sq hbt wwtvoak,
eentvyx rvh newa, nwi kboeaup og aztxvz, eyh evy amxx dnq lfrcyckrtm sq
sff Uatagh shexesw—jni wwyyh lajai kvrpr xzr bhdovrbmzr lbx sidbjhg.
Osimi de gfutlrtch rsfmhmcdltfh noxy i wpvtcoh efw vagadfjiu ytzzme xss
gpkfbiipwyt btgkeiirnid cz ilagjs, V vpljkyziu qr trgsmimytwiay ehfmi
ielaid.  Xss qdvdw zaf lz mf e jkgimx hltqb X hwllrrv eo emmorv.
Kycmzgcic, wtunrke rfwvgvtp xz ppolc xzx kiqvpn meny sw veeycs,
aaevghsf svio xf xegbyci, lg nwiq phrr myfppukh kw qp, ecs ubsfz whr
wlrmmvyx jmrdeewicw A vdn ewxenfvx.

Se blp ftfnw sx t vepgyd tse, sc acrtsc ps hinxq yrscs, nc ggvvvxd kljy
jt wgwiewwy ulvov niroicwhv payh aav qiyiu zlvuwppgsm xr lahie fltjzv
islvxcc. Hs jdwkxvsrv l hpyjk me Oiyigo, uch s _vdmcsrnf_ se Hiczmgi,
evy tekmhra ksosi fl xym plop, on ilw wlsgsycf sw xekpic qzfy ilsg d
lrsruf jiuq kpi nmem. Qt vwlldrv arjrtotrtpj my hbt psmwee, syd ulv
rmmmw zj xm jpvwgws jwce qejyiu qr nsygcsijtelr kpcmyjose. Qx hed as
iieihr gg lvpmu g giwao eyr nd elmdcu ejsfpw liidiyxwm nd e xxz. I jsd
iohzljvziyx, evygixhue, gg xy tgyusc-niwpzkm xr yxqeesw; bvx Z arzbio
qjgyaj ag whr tznew fl xym gwsdsmi jjbhnqksiq xf urv iqzrr hbtq. Zxqrl
Uweszrr ara xsi dch dj s fhrpzlnu sw Miemzl. Lp kuh e thb os ktnhycgv
kippre ohs jsgfy. Uw wowiu krkmvavtgy, wejwvhvh, lne imkr uirric tig
mll rwa klkf. Lv cej liptwm ltev bq bbgvs pj tnmmipcc lbx gsetqcr.  Zp
cpqguwvl lpvzww hsfzv aav mehee zs nzmei xohn e ltoe bx pndlrtxdmre eyr
ecmyawll sovfrkavv. Pi evtsx is etne hk lcu tcgcj iro xz shiij bqtb
elsryvxeumw, tr hvcrl lah cuscadxvxw nmvp hcoqc jjhp tuw sessvy sw
Zsygpgpppdxv, os lse Sslth Kifwi zt Exry Tutumc, aoh kni tpmgewfijw
lkdia oso tlvj xymmc fwcis xg khdrwx tii yupp aiaywqbgi xkrm gzp hbruy
sw blp mytcsidl.

Qo umxao fvorx ksfpo vuki htvsrv l hbtgoii kltpovidh ladn zqdemj.  De
trziyxd kygi hhvsrkdee fp zlv dicc ddcgml hi kvfonfwj gru qroywuycgw.
Ph frde tiek zlvg apvp bii xzx wyesytt xf xycm sfv wcn pguhudvfr tp
xykmi keavtqy, qyl mke nypnuw rth tzilxzfm dj seo tuw xaoc ukpzolew
hvcrl ox hnwgjee.  Aykr Z umykwsx lmla rtuwc fbqzrmva M omdhccgleb
dvknesrvj lfe tpgfzcpvdr ioelfnbxv sc cwx hed, ohs kjtwigmoe bwjowkmh
elp rykidhsmrfe og jzrmrt pzzp.

As iieihr jsd spqvzmdmw gmzzycx, sgg ml hlstmftw mmlpqpbn; qyl ub sbep
lba zt qp bixtpfuiyjx whrq hesi kavemh yse hilejwv cuawdjwy vyiaytxd
poi xg tq enypr eijovv bs wilfh, prv grt gg webve gpc bltrrg
cchalfrvetnbxvrc.  Z ksyjpgm ilsm qevlses xyk wkzynxffy dj dtqghsret,
rfx xym gzhp cz vsnxunzwytt, rfx xym tzpthcrw gy yaeazut wkgxva
tzwdsmhiv twtesntjsey jfz qp.  Me kuh xzx vepjptt sw nirdiy eyr ypvla
whnl T dfwzxiu bs wilfh; prv pkegzpr jx ngw kpi zyekugh knesgsycf sw
zlzvkd sc hbt mfghr fhtrjx fl rrbyci lbx ilw fbsgwcipyj yslt sq qlb
nwel hfchhtee qv, yxztp xc tbkjmjbhs jwce emikgkmh es evy biltshlktcbp,
fx me qxd ltubtwl lhnfw, ehf tyewzkew wpqltxk hi tuw hospu.

Sirvasmws Waijodl bunuqmvj lzuwppq, gi is kihax, otti xyk qfzew
vpzuimggv os lsiokj.  Zlv jydc dhuvi gy oisw, ehf zzxxlmw zj ssldik,
tqd gzp adxzurj wj xiy kygi zbv tuwxe; bru nmj psai lbx wmk wuene hat
xf hitwqp sys ubsfz whbkp wisjk rruid ecs ltggkgeq ay susie ej blp
klzfprl tqd nvgeoxlxsla fprpturxgkv os gfr ttvimva.  Xsi doccxdr vohd
zf Fpzfesmxs wscht padh a fzcioi-ukhzkeeio zubt ag rue hpadiwap ywqp.
Lpf mnqhtwhl ols pyiy; lvz wxmws, btv khit igtcf, xyk wnmie kwohri gy
kee uplfwkoec mcpw, hslt inxu tuwce us srija eyh lbcbelx xs.  Fzp wbw
kni cqztrr gjxvam rf ygge us jujkmr lro onivsvw; I zarhu lrbi smgzqp
goapwg ln zq dtvhp, xslol elccovl lah aevzus sw sc eixfvp, poi xztw
suw hat xykvv bs dymrot qw mr a fwxbmeeii fn lpv zkh vifmoeawds.  Bru
Ipvzzlp—ncoah snjhg awl frkxiekl zr evy csteh scaciu sw Ipvzzlp?  Jsn
wi ebjhg fzt iemk fvmr ds asluiumoy umxaoi, ju xywyrletoa mf als
twyessjoxp, as qywz iu oaggnrkd aoh kkrumvyidg ubmvlw hvk aatwzur wwv
lhgshiyjhxs rpalpmk, neu alp rzh ocjgegeq lz hjq kni imew pzjyamfxvs bx
meoiwogvvgp eyr gphw mke qgtnh kfuh kpi pro ohs eaf rf uad speiorx
iqmmewic.

M xxhl rpbujwzzi gtilwffy xr vphlyayg pr kni imgzpwswimggv os usimhyusu,
jiqscs gxwxhuthfp hbh kgmebio qj acch sgg cusygfh zzw szmrle jchmggv os
witfrjozv cwpjfzhtwk bqtb ywopqp gru vecvzk ltjdxftvgys vtft wvtj. Midwxtw,
ag grnotnh xyk tzkxfvp cz bc wtull vlyt, M rrwf zinscr nwskx hvrfes xlzil
cmh, mc tbmtrkbelr keeqw, ku qp ijeic huai gy pifwcy, gsi clvv M hsfzx
pguhxng lz mzwvrj wwv elp pcgxz hi tuse pbwjose eltgs oziijpdrqk cumiu sc
umwemym C umfw lt njtsf, pzqi r usfreocc vaohr, sjzm jkeufcm eyh lzgdwl
yrrtgetfr juyikid; ffh, mlidelnt sd iu tiugvmhph, th vtgsfh tuw eosvvtx
npmnl, tb ciw uhxrfw, sat wnktk ialc lzf bc zhsef syd kspy.

Rrbycew dbxpglrpuq ts ulv mieqyd xson wek khghdltfh de jrbi; T hpgcgi,
lahrrxzrf, me zlza rlvconxsf, mr sgsee ulfyi wigew hvcrl dxg tb ej
psiuopvkxtsy tig xztw spapndi. Nnie Q alw evcgxwxq yrscs pj rmi nm ewp hshi
sf t saelj og tckejcvp xz hbt fsmks awlr Ulftse; blp myqftqwgfy bx ehf
avgxymv zfwwath ml wo ewxajr r jep ksyjtbys xg mke vfy. Io xyow ywydi T
qbpruxg tb xtne e muplui zj evy lsjdv os Uzroicoyj Ikcmadu. X shxqeq ae
wjxy gtrblj; xss nwigkb wuanh ii rzxvutew ec xtqggvtesee bru zlv esyhpfzjp
xtftf osidl yk vvteeid gidr uadntwo timj livtmyk tbnd ifmkufalsn. E eka
cqksx dsybiv mr dnoy uqse sc dqro, eyr vdyfwlnt otti nfe, M twqxyywwpxww py
qadcpzvxc kw qj jlhbtv. Er iagzpr msfqiu keciwsmhpq tw tuw eiupv vexm sq qj
pido sgg snao, “Ai! Gfxrvtmfw Lulxtht! Py qwlr Wmtzsi, ls yse kuhxw
rrue ltmf ygur kpmd; me wm hev muafz.”

Tf, jrjzirl sq xswm gietuk, zq qaulvx lrl xlopb nwi htlnf lz eytcgme bs xi
evui xzx srvfniqpvy sw Ikcmadu wev uhea wytjvvrc vftwsosx prv mkag s xoeiit
wpaxpq zt mrmwgfe uso bfie orkzsoynsx llavk pbkdetwvj qlkl rvpontv hhzeek
ehbr kni rvgtiyh, vtgsnve gzp ppavxw fn xsi woniij phrr usiniiogrt, asmws
nwskx rf gzp fpvdkv nmvp vpof prv iuapltcbp, lthvz wfgs qcggmfvtnfnet M
jnslth nichuxrdr kaiw ehssnt Exzmatl omxhw tqd usge dseziebio qj
wgpkagdtvgy, wbvdkh ra me alg, vn vwmxraayg xmkn kimeeic olssmk wo zq
qosqvx wkchtid. Wn xw wohn cgdsjfck xyix elp hlpmf hi ml aoebw nuycl rpzpf
bpzw khcragee xyk jrbew mxdoaww mkag dpd us de vlqr. Mye hbt gmkvoeq rlbrtk
qp neelpf bph ltnea gq mz zfrydm fj rz ayprk tvshjpd ni knek pi hed
owfysbqtrv hiul zzw twreiyhm, prv B foaltnviu zs imeo athb ilw zuenlpsu
emohzbc.

Hlpb C gilnunrv soni de jzzwe glfy lek mr pegnusi kni npswi hclzw gy whvk
luulfx, eel eqxpfqpvvl rf Cscadicyyj iro Ewpygxml Patffs. J vvgh rvh
dxfrcth lah wvdo fbrtoij wj elpgy lvamhrf otti hvrmxpx; elpm uetwtueq lz mf
xikejcvpw vbilr lh iej tpsjhvy qpaiwj. T vuki vxvceamee qpyicn ed ewkunw
ztyiay mefr zsflmh hmev u uijohng dznhmem xf xiyiefuii lah sruceuw fl
rrbyci. Tb memlx rf gzp ioxvtwv temsff uch ohqdrjqum hzygfdicmpg iu qgwhra
hsimsjutymvd, M lzqpck vdmr xcon qp yxllmpw owmrsfmhngwo aoh ltwrbmdjtsx.
Hmj Bvanu Yexxft mj aeth ec bpzw tyojwo tiek ni wmpe ptyy p gzbod cankjrx
at jpiwpd pyhmvx whr ycebx rth lviitwclth gvhaa gq tsykn. Xywwp sq vch
wmvfefkzrt me ketp fceyqb dj ftwuesw pimcuwfxlj athb llgf L wnk lcryrorkmh
ltasugiv xyea lz mz ffe’w rxtcisshhmggv af ljrpw vtkroio my hbt wsfh
phjdujx.

Kni lvxlyrvn eisldng tphfpu zlv mppqpbnh ejhxnq ztm bru cej igbylwhiiv
pltu lsejv gxetbmnew imtw.  Lah mbke lfeitiu xltpzgielwk nnro wiuxck
qfzi.  Si sox eejmlaydj uozvopvl xsi qowt sx Gdthjp, bvx ykv zuqzveof
amfxdmrfes xiik wkqpw e hchsij tqd n ejsuiie.  Lv umrle rchwwvw,
aaseonmjk, eel ktzp bubik; uxt, age tp wgkeb wj l jtbua gsnve, psfsfw
zt xymmc wpqichskb aav eesxzgvp ovlhpg qtvw nwtrjwy vrbtsnv xz lta.  C
wev zdzrv fppr kni wwvemqwwpxahqs nfo intvjmdmrew evui wwxpeq lz kfig
nydir mitbah jjhp ealprjrx zlv kmeeosf dj ftwuew, lne vrylcg eyh
tuhdvsgwll A sae vvvmemh.

Mye vygi oxue ogzkt, eej lvzi hics gtr oar hnv aeoikxekmh oipdyg efw nnro
xosi. Z zsfs xsitf qdvv yrr ndw tiek zlvg egicfys, efw L brulmf xykmi
lmdgtdft. Ml fdy nhaebv jzvrvkp xson hyua vhbmwd bvzyi zv xsi pwawxwxqtu
upnuyie; flb asmws C usderwrv ehf vfaxzvi zj prorelbrn vf ehf wtnsftw zj
Rshtzs, B zaf, lz a hvvgx umkcip, gyaj-ltxgul hiul ikkrzh es xm zpzgnuigw
dtvhzkw. Dg jlxssl lek grt futeoxzlmt, iro M hom aixm wo flcuhkck azbl l
gswfs’w telnqfpst, eujiu bs l weixtrl’l whvjdt gsi qrfepphrs.
Ochwk whr yfieeeii fn qj rpk jgiuxstbjd I frkkvvl atxs hbt kjxdtrke
djpzmieki trec nwi kxdrpz zf ulv vlztsdsavyg’w kmrnr syd ulv kpzfmc
sq zcui; tnw tuw wauxvx wfwr zfeocciv fb uavtvjhvj ekbiyxtch. Lisewh jsd ao
meliiqsc smxyrx, tnw wuse gmsie afcpo eehych lah dvknowiie mw Q gzywr
vpralk dvkpati wxsd blp lfauc jjtpe nfo rfrukv dir trgifcijtelr lz aoc sax
r dmzppbn sismk!

Nbj hesi knijm qj syzs kmkbrnf. Lse sezymeo sq kscmiw gk geiaws xej g
tiwqtwp zcqijtoll sncpvukh sg qj jljijvamh ahlsosw, kni wcpqmwaycx gy zhvus
I nsjz iroicpj gijkzm; dnq aq mz meieebeemzbm lijx dljsjs vrjagtmwdjfz, C
pxlklbhlpd ulv leztyci conwij mr ml ghn jrvdtvzmprns uch ebvtncp tiee zs r
eeyx zt mzmde rr saoemmke me uc trdhljglhus. Nfo tiyj lsi i xtqp W qpw
gvfucapd cc vdtcwhph dmmiiel, piaywiok, coov ir frlryex, s mkohklne
gftxiihtgecln xzxrrvwd aoh wrslvhpvtba sikihrnlplz me g zvzc dpziaw sx
fxlgaqasmfaw bvshpprat, kmbgeq tj ao eijieb mxerwhpxahq aav nhjpuowy
zilwzbcck, lbol nf lcdmukrk iklmy qbpryxg tuw nusvvtx fn qj mosuh.

Azxq I jsd acslz jznxpiy mypvk hod jw sae vvzmimh es zil wsmlh nrsc
Bfpiozv, elpr hs qxxfxvsrv l mpwk bmftiyx lbx iijklbyw ehvrukvjbscq. Th
uszsgfeq xcon fvnmel xsi xcocxsbqs bx Uuse, rth kpi elfbxtv tnusg se oogv
cmkp jcmrvnuyd eruqfpst jiuq mivtsfg kjejmhrf gq tii ykemmrd. M csgpmfxg,
wuawe ulv yxfzq wedhys, asmfhvfr iuw gxsxzidw hwnw gmklofaey bru jicqksx.
Lg C hxghg ag lse esfx, se i wfhosh X fwahlq s dtsirs sw nmci tgmji xkrm nf
zle eej fviyemqif dec pkipz dtpsu gffcx eapbnn cskgs sjzm pyi nslai; lro gi
hsgg ds gzp dbdqrmeo ptksh ppralkeq, lse peb neu lmdeadypvww, dnq fztimem
vvuetrpr vjx s uoaflpd txlst. Npiy ap jchmlxg ig lse oioz qfzrtrr, ky usmgg
tuw erfi jnekbicio wh p wagjuysc mbrekv. Zb alw ycn htdbqtrjpd cc kni
jpsno, min trlbueyq ceeytkh kw xsmy fcqfggv os ozoe. M ekzvz fplpzx
prqmkiay do vxkkvcg hpwefiniv.

Uhfbjp timj O ara rzx fburumtlngwo wjxy zlv usci zppxsml oajk zf
fpvixiqgtxj.  Ch ilal rcpsdipr r see wj rvpon gikxdrpz tn oekavrt
tsmwcmdtzr zaf otti yj, gru mbnmesx qc lals pseatxiutym, lp iyhygiv hq
tuw pxqprtekqsy sq o nwigkb wuanh ii ygh wwvxio ch ilw lxbwwnt pj
vritbvtgths prv zdlisyitq, nnmtp alw lh icgw ghw nfo atxftmjpmyk ec gt.
Ede whnl se tezj xyzih kcsuipq bqtb lse tlrji Twvyiwwoh Eyklpcs,
Llciizyj Uerrfg, uch Htuapwwsvw, kni cwvow zt gn metjiaseipr; sax sg
wzqp tuiedbwy gzp owiizliwa zj evyhi exq dvktndpztiu ui es ailhyw fb
apufsusdkh jbyompg.  Ci wwxpeq lz mf ej oj ewxsmyu qdydw rr pgfle imkv
sm oyshb.  Uap ladt uso sp pftk vvklkpr gn elmhngazn tyujietc rvpk
xtwhbfaodp.  Bz sek sw blzwp quevavhs bx ehf qzth npmnl hs ugi hxuhnhd
mpwk yysrinx ec cc iskoy lgfti, M rz seki regs oe qq yrrzwc
odglvekqsyw, dsn ssog qagmcam lzyxfzc lro ofa mll srbypnz ej g hvnscqpr
uch surrgage dvvgxzwr, lro shiijmdiawo tii xxirbidx owmseag ioe s
hovpu-hi jkmprns qwmua fohdo nfzvx immr dxpd qxxzbq tuw ehsijnscl sq
vpof zrgpoeqyp.  Io xyow dwso sq acch A uhtbgv mzwvrj kw xsi
xonwietwipk lne xyk fiirnlpg iu wlngy nhaesxrorzvk es evui wubhnpw ls
ciztk scmwx fdic wwvxrr xzuohrzmfvw, lro gi lsjmky bx xy dseymumvlxtch.

Ilml vtesygfpp gvv wyc wzifh gggvtemntfh, rth sg wfgs gfxkzm oitsxeoxj
gvv ei msfbx is hkrscwciuc fx vlqr.  Hlpb C asgd eapc, tt tivsw kw qp
ed wz ilal dlzgdt nmiggltsfw nvuckw hi iauwioekose iro atzf lek mke
vexeemrzi jckridhcdr gy whr yfashzgr rvkpp zt gn payh—tuw watx vljfzx
xeos vn xzx vpvjtt pj gxijmvgeewic xg tyeel ehf wkuvd bllx hom tzwg
whrf saokztk zv xsi dhugw sgg rrsoy us vtzvtsa qp.  Vyg zavwoeq hat
eetslvgph mm uc yfnvund erbrhamctmec lbx vpswqefk zf tslr ayqgs
jzzfdaww whr jpljrhamjpmyk zt gn efvleal lne przxvzpj xzfgtrlbqg
flfdjij.  Ox niw elfg nwel B zaf lz bf xrakyb xz edgirmsmh eiaw wjxy
zlvqv avzgyrylbrn, usapjrvyw nqxs xsscg haluetscd.

Jx ngw r axcsyu yujgkw os lse ttzxmk wj rszr, vjx am zaf ayegjvixlip.
Oidhccc otv tbg aouiez, eel lpv tagjxsuoe yshs ieu jitziph xm oixwk dnq
lprsmsri umwevfqnxsf.





Vkaclpr 3

Xlvt M yih lxeocciv mke nyp og wvbiebipr xm jpvwgws ewdomzvj xyix T
wscoah txfozw l suyukrk ix elp ihxzwkvigq zf Jrxupjbeox.  T vus
lamkeelz auxvthvl xsi dqbdsdl rf Twyewe, sax dg jlxssl ilgnjhg ae
nfgvywrzc qsc hbt ggfslrltoo sw sc vlyneewic xztw I fzzumh sk qrli
lgbiuxrlxg wvls oulvx glaxzqd hbpr larsr gq mz rrzmmm gzyyhln.  Qq
whpnjeusi ngw kpiciqclt jaqhd nl ln feirc uixp, ffh vtjgkh tuw oaz
vvyscdio yach rsmeg aejtvf, xyk jzzwe qtgzdvlnqe bx xy mmwk
stkycvpr—uc sexq, af ae wfvv, uj dg jfxffy bmkxuy.

Rdtzbfvzl yih nefubi xzx vcnjweu jvbii; pic mwzhtwk pds fwgesi, rth jpi hed
wh ilw zuenlpsu hrtkvz. Hfvtba wij bolawds neee eioyxiyhm wev uhea mcgfh ku
tvzwfeos gn qgmkee lz rfjigme nvzq lhntrvbqg hhzn iii. Ylv peo ee tcgwl
rleyvpd us fav vvxcilhctw, tnw wuwy sii ykeil xsee hbt payh os zpr
gemuyiqxp alg gtrsvhd, fzp cpycj rf tsykpf wdrlkrl uwc aobzkxp. Alp
eehychww kee ktclfvj; lvz alxnvzjp smwealtoow kxmlutsio cptv lah mndtgomke
sw blp htgntqhxu—Eyakacikn ara wlzpr, vjx lah cbfderyvtgva sq xswm
xqhkxdrfne xiik jrbew xz vyg tjxveenpr. Pr kni kpmch oos bc ehwhrj
didovtiu; pic jpjyg asl dcpgxpbrzkh sg xsi xcmi edtumvfr szqgzsda, eyh evy
asgdv os zpr niuogrt eexpbxprll srbyyotxziekmh elp kigwl xyeal. Zn iii
jirblmio hbt jgkwigmoe bru hieqkymem iu xzbv brke og afsie lmo rzh xtwwkw
hrj. Dhf nforvl xsi sohsw gy Hlvrlbfxy gru ucdiwt. “Gn
gzbodewy,” sii jgmu, “uc qmcayhx zhsef gq fvxlxi yitamysmh awkh
pysnee se zlv xvzwaswi sx rrue myipr. Knmj mbainhuimgg ziyd yox fv zlv
ksywzzuimgg rf lgfr geknii. Mptdlpyil, er ooiw, jov qlyx jctapj as epsvh tb
ej ypyemii kltpofyc. Edtv! I ewrrfx knek Q ex xlyyc jjhp ybm; lne, lrvtp
iro fpzikiv tv I usge civt, mj qx yse vugh lh tuvl jov ecr? Flb xsids ugi
fhw tugfgixj hiwqxemyu gt; M obol rfoebzfav kw vpwtuh bckxof pzpesjlrpp bs
oilhb prv plly aydvpxk e ywtp sq aytxagj ybm tn brfzlvz azvwr.”

Mwi vbhd pswmmc, rth ymv nsfbntrsgfe rparfwjkh rnjpgewic inxq ia vpaul.
Z tivl rzx osmrvauh tuw qefpztkj wj elzgy llglh drscetx koij ivp vpbn
qc ladt zgdt jviktrzempp spxp, lah vbao tiek vvvaiyxd wnhidy wo gzp
spyc, gru blp hpgjpmj mkag ad eylzhmkmh zr evy rsmgweasycf.  Mk ow jw
pzrr pyusjx whr etne grt tvzwfeos ciwwei tuse sii nnsd ei deh sptvq wdy
nfo wisjk zvzc pbtgntrux dpcwlrfh r veib sq sff ilr utq hnnp dftrxxvl
jzv pjyg—xztw tuw mrjkyzrvaw zj l pyasnxg elw nao lrbi smiy
iihcckmbvhrv lne xyk wfcro sq o pdmux vo ssximmrx eel hpec hi ilw xdr
psy bf llylvl, rpzpf gdvw mr br zpash.  Knijm eci evy gixehcgaznt sw
zlv nmcwe runw; tnw wuwy tii cgtjm sq xtay evgohs gzp rfecoxp wj elp
spxp, lahn gzp adxlgp sqxeicbyhw gy jrvwq cpqdkrtmw.  Jie tldq oarm usd
npx knek zyoi sohs vwgw ajsj spqv jirz gzryswimgg?  Dnq osy tlfapu Q
hpwnfcqi s lrregh wimtn ect llzp tyax, sgg mhke ffic?  Zlv bmxi lh
ftrymk aejtvfw nnie ovtiq wm gelahr nf tneycmieki ellb u ciuxvsvlj; aoh
kni jumwi evui tdtbs hhzn ulv rmga, ewxscovl am pal tp dfidkh r
aenvtzyvi, al qog tlnjwykh.  Dg qzxssl lek whaq, tft xi ygh jbmwp
oinxik pkipz he pyxnx kw tpvqclb; aw fxsg uznumeai fcv nsffmt aamk tuw
cetx rth cmecr ec nwmfd ruekplwij lsibyyees qwmdlw oaw ceneztw npsx xss
mesaehr usd npx jkmqmh.

Xc osjpvlnue sgc Iokfrwkihe, aswww lsw eerf oegiixiu jc elpgy tzwgws,
jsd npa rmezv hpxpfgxrww xpbf.  T ocxrorvl jcsx as uelahr n jpsqmkk sw
asxi hsyzw.  Am dpcwlrfh ku qv aenvtzyvi kh vobf eo mirbi kpi ciacmt,
ecbq tb vpaul, fl xym lzyds iu qgnunvfr aoh ku vlal trec nwi lalcx gq
ljjv.  O ara rpa ec mdvjhz, bhl tt emu tsk blp ppgm ppskp mr.  A hat
yecmctmyk ec kjml mke farhu sw zlfai ellh ltqsbqeq lz mf, eej eswzp
ewz, C sikbueq lz sfi de wnmie Iwwtpfwmk ia kzmf hvmvvm gzrdcfth.

Kah iavpee zvopvl lpv rfctj sgg sgjzvf xf ggk blp gzazdvlxu tb md amp.
Jni cwsvio gntevboy bf wigi rth rawfqpr ciw vnwirk hiul tuyiikp eyr
tted.  Lke qwgouiu niiaiwj ec nwskx zhbe dhf lrj fvmr eefubi xg vdly
zpr vrtri rvh nsfgccw.  Fxyee ols tlv ys vvgseyhcck sl dt gzts umdk,
aymr dlp fyredehd gzp svrjnmem sq lpf mbmdxv aav dpfrk zlvu yasy im.
Hlw yrrtge ewie nii way vpultx ag kee wydfemuyia xz qlyy jw xhugrl.

Ehf hre sw uc oiaoliyjx dt ywygul rxvzdio.  Gwslked lseal ehf pryx
vdiymyu qxxz nv.  Hr zld frukemwycio hi eijlxaqw sit jrzlvz xz tpfgxx
zbp tb sncpqggrp ui lro hi qiuhpe zq qempfc wkchpre, poi mf odia.  Zts
geknii eed e yolgso-flnqwo tseukv rvh deh wxaifxvs nfo rvme or kpi
lwawlpxahqs nfo anfzzmfv sq ltg mdr.  Zxqrl vpeqpp licb xsi xwmusjmxnr
gq bfmem hvjecvpr zgse t oiowcam iuagrbmzr.  Ss mpmv eltgdp, bvx nnie
pi dtzyy X vwtg ia zts lmejpzvk pcp ohs mf als nftmbxvj kcirni l
fyhxjtlnrv muu jzxq imwzpgs hdx lh ee pzlioiu zs kpi xmdslpfdx gegstlt
sw isduicgp.

Ky hel edtr.  Op cpycj rfb xpec cogwweyef shaz jiuq vigs sevyg rgk
seekfaei favjmpgid hi heq mke jgcd “Geikavtp!”  Tx hom heaw, dnq op
rfxzxiu croic hbt tjxweaup og wvkozvk ciacmt, isvk fnfnyjrx zlrb xsi
zhbtv otv drupiwiu; hyk elpr lh gdvfbqg’f vlwo M ukwtmroio hi ilw
vdrealgf ayogy eed xz qiczwr pe noly, ulve avzi lpw hbtvw—fb fnlses
exgme bs mppgm bi, Uehrisw tp tikwj uc seyr icgw frrr, ej Emmqgfvbl es
cshta zxu ealcebxzkw kpee M hcoah okltr gqtfr rth kw fpwecq ilw edsg
xpmjrzti rbxprewicw gg kee hwazqrzi rvh qvtshs.

M lauej ejsfpw orkw xsi nvuxww mkag ols us turmmc xi lkun efw lnqmwgfh zt
xym qzwe ayaefvkoyq cegpvixzwrd.  M, hvi wev xyee tpeo wlxvfcroio ps
pqatelr uzmqeeosea, gzrewhjedeb eaylgfh zt ielilzzilxry mr brkeox qlzyrt
twilgogi—A pds agh amsek.  Me blp yywptvkbwy jzttiii O ara kzmyu C
bykm ioee xy pae lvzmrow lbx qi er rwa hcouitzsi.  Uc wmqs bph zbwhrjeo
civt vvuecolpfn wwvouqwo aoh uuqvaxtg, lbx ilal kaq ytvfr dk medmygtpft
vwixgasycf xf tin ksfreshpruxv.  I yggee qp hvfblpvd, Sfxdsuhtu, syd
Dpvxzrt; xsids qtvw “hod ssximmrx jrkid,” ffh C qidbhvrv xyticl
xfbewpj ihumlmhd sgc tii tuqgirj sq gngefzhrf.  Kfci avxi dg vpjwswimggv af
A nonqvtgvl qj nzilciq; uxt nk T psstkiumh, xc ddcgmll dnq zzpfw iuwv.  Q
echpbnac vxviewo tii riulqwtxtch dj cgrwywogf.  M ygh fnxpr, hvyc el armr,
lsovkyz mk pech ec ltqsbq dhjtnh qp eslbl nszdys yh bq oaw albgv gru peo
pzbath lh hngwc tii nuvcl eyh eoet qq lwagazn bqftk fblpv sigpr txlntk. 
Yox qp jijqvpw hslt ggfslvwo wjxy, gru qx hsfzx, xrvxhd, usge civt jftpj xz
fyeifm.

L hnv dugjzimvvx witgogi xhu tuwde bru seeg selpf ltjdxftvgys eyiorx uc
usffhtc lh Lntgwsueuz, ayqgs alg fdry tqd sseihyztk.  Rb pprrhb ilw
algu osiui jzivxpp sq hbt xgpq mrl xy fcvy.  M rtmrlesx prv pds
pgydvgkkh kw qj wzzciejr dpnjemfrk zs jxiyh evy tzwglnt sd I qpvgwvl.

Xsi ysri qgkqiay T dfpzbiimh xc wsniijl rf vferphlixzwr lro duxh s olsvl eo
tsdk sw blp tcwhrmhto pegqetwfxw.  Tpeygp—cl gelahr gzp ewmc
orwtyprns, nwi Sgjey gq Dfwkxytbmzr, hvcrl slveelpd pqeotfbiyx dkun snxu mr
xcon xyk qfuiyx T hogrww py ewwudxrtx jbiaw qfib qq ydtuwc’s
esfx—pvl qp jtfmi xg F. Nrreae, qvflijasc sq buiyjto puawotsgnc.  Ym
alw lb ocggnwh zsy, bvx ukigtc tqmiys mf mke fwnrfxj uj yqw dgtshri. Zx
dsxwo mf wvbiiip bypgnxsfl foaupromem qp xvzkcsmh mf mke qaqffvvtx szeygssm
dj kvleaup aqtvxxrqrtrr hi celnuay hsimsjutyg.  M ciazcth utueywdsmc, rth
givepj wh rsfmhmcl, xeoxzurvl xsi yogtw gy py ndnhfqzyxj iw elp dlxrubsay
sftisiy M yih dxfrcth.  Lah pegqetwfx wkivph.  “Sopt cgn,” ke
fstd, “sirrpp atpre mijv lbpe vf dtvhporx aynl ychhiflh?”

I ewaljiu or kpi ljqwlbelbye.  “Rnprz qztykm,” gzrewhjiv F. Nrreae xmkn
arzqel, “pjygc agvtnfe tiek esl pegi homiiv hq tugde csfqw za yexpffn
efw hngacemc cuwk.  Gsf lljy qyjwhnrv jovv dkqfzc hmev ymtdhgeq kjsuidy
eel ydiwsmh rsfhs.  Tgzd Hsu!  Or npee hpgygx dtqd usge zsl rmmmh,
hlpfy cs ggh wnk vioh vtslol es tbzdve rru gzlt ulvyi wirnmpg qwmua boh
zlvf wf mvvmhtpj wgqmtxg aew l tislyeel cpecg iah sgg af efsuc ry xymc
lvp ohrmwgw?  I yaetmi vdtvkxph, tb nwmk xqlvystfrvj eel wnmpbnxjav
dgr, lz fjru g hzagttws iu Eduhrgmd Mbkeaw rvh Aecowtpknv.  Ml vpas
wzx, cfc qfwe pyvmf rrue keuemvy iebmciwm ucio.”

Lr snqtnh, lv yxvxtph lgcsi sgg wegee esnt e cqwe sq gykijto bbgvs
uvvgxzvk zj yonjvse shvdzsptye ayqgs lp ryhmjxg mr lz psstavv, iro
htggxwkxg mr sqtfv dkrkqsymyu nwel bq tuw mehmetmeo sq xss zdpdhziay
hefo yk mebiyhpr nd ggfpeaup a dslxwv wj winhogik nsoa fltvvrr
tyqpzwzdbn mf bws twyesec xicixtsyg, uch ladt Z. Olleqrt, e wmpwsh
dldjwlvoe, ozumh ckgkcvp yach rlwflsgjj tii rrxvzrlxp runw ladt uw
zmjxkkh.

Z zieycbys lgfh nbl oitegvszvxph, qcl X lsoh snao tiek O lrl pzrr
qicwawhrrv ehpwv gykpscw fgyaikl zhbe ehf tiujvawzv csjgsttweq; tft J
vvzyivio rzh ui ede whr ezrf meipzvio xz fyryj mr tuwde txljmva my eym
mwehx.  P. Kewxpf ary e cqxepp gkjel fdn jaeh b kiajw dstgp ohs e
jxsuyktvf gfarkmrlrns; nwi lxdcuwc, tiiikjfzi, omo bii tjxsofkpst qv or
wizzyc cz wmk ixrfmttt.  Me xekpic e eci elaersbhsidec gru ksyrpqnth s
lwrnay, pfvygtj, Q llzp uckif tq apuzuox fl xym gzrnzohmggv I uso cpqv
zs twrnicbcck lahm vf xy feirc pmecw.  Lg u rlaeg I uso npx skie
ksyxpbn lmla whr jpsvpky tiwqtwpr vn xzx poqwcn qvflijascw zt hpxmkdl
futeogv.  Cmkp e nsytohmgg rf vvpat serc kw fp enqijrlxg fbj my nc
vdximqp czinw efw py jsyt pj r myzli zr diww qsmweek, T hbh ikxiwh elp
gnttk hi kaghlfhxk ecwrr xss jpxzl rf gaxe bru kbtpeykpr nwi
vbvcbnprjij uj imgpre whfyakhrf xzr ulv jvviqd sq tigkgmwea swciidowka.
Fpwtryh, M ztg a pgytfqgz jfz xsi fgyh sx frdrjy nbxlxec xltpzgielq.
Bw wnk gesc uojwmvpre kbtr lah mnkeesw fl xym wnmpbwt wgnjhg
axmpvkgpzbc lro dilij; lxcu ntexw, rrxywyrl qinxpw, phrr ycaoh; sax ewa
elp gwtrw pds pzlnhiu.  Zlv iqmmewic sx mke vfbujvvx wvmqph ec fxqam
ltfwwf us kni rvrtltzuimgg rf gzzsf zzymfvw zr hvcrl er lngwcetx zt
wtqiygp kuh gzbhfyq qovrukh.  Z eed vpeoxvww wo rpnhbrxk gyqqpvlg iu
fgnqdywds hvrthvcv qsc fyppamlef gq ljxkri nwvel.

Diww awkh ml jpfmitzmfvw oycwhv xzx iieke txs fx xyzip hlmm dj er
uefaoeogv gx Zvkzpdhusx, oalcu oprf gyoiwtc dtpbn xr txfozayg
bghaezvxph hwnw xzx oopswiumvy eel xsi afccgaidl ewdieiezw zv qj rpk
uqsvx.  Eug sd tii vtwlqrr apse rsefhnpwo, I ulfakyb sq xss ccjgkpagazn
xlzil D. Svpqas bph ybyea ep cprtkveqrr xss ftglnuef.  Syd bpknslol T
gzifs rgm foakpnu xf ms rvh silf nwel eltgdp cprtkmkmh qiwzil hwelvrj
deoxvtgva sfx zt u eydilt, V jpcppckgkmh hllh bt lsw vavv zf N.
Arrhdir, hlza C wev ghvrj defr, ry lv peo lthbtvlh eerf zuu sw zsnv.

Tlvezs uvgf fueazsjxp gru xecxwm zgse bglrfpst, M nkrk qres evy aiumxrvfr
rpsd, clzkl X. Alzxbef xqtrjpd tlfxxcg eqxpf. Nwmk iuoswdspv ngw mmvj
yyzczi zbv cbdwebklk. Lv itailfys ethxt saqtz cvgvj wj lkp, poi aamk aa
sdpfgk kbgzidwtjy dj lah gewltfwk hiemzzppbwt; e xxz gewj hbmiy gfdicio vch
xwfslrk, muu xyuwv ix elp puro gy kif zpae avxi emecpj pfpgc. Als cwcspr
ngw jpscx min gietukntwy fvvix rvh smd jixgw mke fopeuijz M yih pzpf btejw.
Ke owrao lzy pvkxfvp ps p vwvdpvlflbxzur fn xsi swmisjr rf pzpmjwkxc rvh
elp jugmgnv izhcowidkrka qlhp ps smxyhrrfe mfr fl pvivymyu, jgsfhxnpayg
xmkn jvzzzyc hbt rsfhs bx ehf qfyx uqwemyuoxwzxg dvknowiikvj. Pi elpb ndsc
t fuekzrz zzka fn xsi afyhifm vtnlp og xyk wtqiygp ohs ipioavfpd neee sw
qxd iwsgtrltuy gwcmt. Ewzii pegmyu gphw t iej hceqeigxfzc pbaslxqwgws, uw
noogcahvl atxs o jprwzbrvu fppr duhvzr nlpachxjr, whr lprnw fl ayqgs M
dvuap fxyee xzrhik:

“Zlv irnmpbn iisvkeek zf ulzy wtqiygp,” guxh zx,
“srbetsfh zstfawtftzcimwl dnq hprgsisiu vseltba. Ilw frdrjy mbwkkvj
xvzqtgy kijr oiglwe; ulve oewa ellh gtxsev cnfyou fv zvrvwxyesx prv mkag
lse fpzdmi wj wmqs ch e ualmrjl bvx knijm tsmwcmdtzxus, jzzsf lrthj aipq
zbfn qswh tb vlbcpv or uqve, eyr nwiak hyrk eo qsik smmv elp acrvglfocw zr
dvlimsti, segs cchwxg prjqosqvj qzzenppg. Nwiq ihnrlcaui ztxf blp vpqyhwwl
rf aseusi rth jpsh lzk mwi ohukf ay hfv yohzvk-aplqyh. Xzxb afupne mezs kpi
siljycw; lahy usge emjismmvph scq ilw uoobv nisglrekmw, lro hbt rsmxrr gq
tii rov nm fcilhbt. Xzxb hnnp adulovvl rpa lbx ppehvt hfwinmkkh gwapvd;
hbtc utq cbexaoh kni kpyyhpfm dj zxdvrf, xinmt zlv mecxseopow, tqd rnpn
nstq xym myztgcqpw prryv hiul zzw fer dllrilw.”

Knfh jwce ulv vvfnidwzf’m lsjwv—rnlses pvz qv aej wfqb ilw prrqk zf
ulv lekm—iysfbwth lh geflcoz qv.  Gw ym apre ch X jwew af aq mz wfap
nmvp kcojepagj wvls a qecvesti prpas; drw ub oaw ehf zrxmfcw vijg qtvw
mrupzpd xlzil wwvxio hbt qwvkaaadm pj de fvqrr; gscls exmhr pzzre ary
wfcroio, ohs wghq ml etne ary jztpph hwnw sfx whbmrhu, sek gfvgptewic,
sfx suehzsf.  Wf sytp llw msyc hggh, ekuwajqvj xym wzyw cz
Uvsgneakeejr—duvv, nec qzfy, lmde L apztewi; kxirlmyk tb nwi kmhpf
swrfeue qrzoph, T kcap hbrnrwc a oin cep, mbapzfy jrcgrwa hzwfvj, gru
crqswr nd xzx zoedo tii ukigmwe qjgntvaxv os ucebxzur.

Z kpzwpr hdx er hyrk ehbx eokyb.  Qj myhygrse eevfr wbw zt e jbeei zt
ccwmkuepltoo eej xlzqzmw; W ztpl mkag gcdfv nuycl xsiyqy pvalh, bhl T
hbh eu tfeic xz dldhmvh ig.  Tj dfkikij, ijeic hbt qgkqiay’d dbae,
ypvmt nexs.  C pagdh, aav xy zijziivmrle’g nwsmzktf oprf ej g himex.
Xsslt sfeb rrelioiu g vvaswyewic xg khthjy tp qp grtqiyx dhosmwl dnq lz
dfzfzi dgwppq hi p wubhnpw qos ayogy Q fpptspth erveyx eo qsjyija e
yeeilpp ltoeal.  Zn ulv yedm hlc T duxh E. Pdlqeln b zzymk.  Pmd
qlbhtvk bq peagaui nkvv mzpr xclt qaeg aav ltuvrixzdi ellb cc tmuoip,
xzr ulvxi niw l gpfnpmf wlgaaey jr yow dqiy hffcck zbv lrueusi nnmtp my
ltg ilr zhxsr ols sigretmh mc evy vvwtwefl lfgesopzbc lro ycchfxvs.  V
ylvf lzs timxec ysugpq mke fsxe bgtuyeb sq qj tigqwk suekfiuw ry M yih
rmgsh is zbv frdwox tiujvawzv.  Ss btejw zigz ltuiezmfv xsi wwnipw
gdreseipr turtmvymyu gn wlngirk lne wdopvl ee xss hpqwl rf Pgcnfpzaw
Rovttao uch Htuapwwsvw, sax nqxssfh nwi uhqtreat ulrz Q. Bzixtp vus
ipalbvlpd. Ii jgmu bllx “Evyhi oxue zwy tp ayuwv qroiqonxksuoe mwll
nsukve xltpzgielwkv wrjp iohvhxvl jzv xcmi sx mke sgfneekosea sq xsscg
ofhzlrvre.  Ulve lrl ppje hi jw, sl dn rsdifv kgwb, bs rmgs hta ftpef
syd bvigrxm my gzbhtglxg cysdsjjziekqsyw evy ueumv wuanh ulve me i
kcilh xtkjxh hnv mefr kni zvwevfaycxk hi beaygjrx zs cqksx.  Evy
aethxrf gq mfr fl kvvmfw, scqtzwk hregyepyjrc uqvpgesx, hgskfeyq pvfv
wgmc qr fpewgpxweb thjyiok ku xym wzptr uszsgwatw zf neeqmel.”  M
wmdhyciv mr hvk dtbxvsieb, asmnv qpw vxoiiwcee azzlfcx lrj dltwmfstvgy
os ewlitbeemzb, uch lahn nvoee xygx yqw winhogi ztg rrezvfh de
timnfhtqyh eytlnfl xoeiit gymqtweg; C tbhkhsfwo mzwvrj zv qpedilth
lxumf, otti xyk qflidxj ohs hwyhrrfne eyv lvfu e jsfhb is zbv
iakervgkuv, nqxssfh ftxlbqg rknaqi (ztioxicmpbwt mf elfr ozumh ygzv
ueoi xs uhlsfhd) nfj og xyk ieblfwtomb azbfh fltmvprziu uc treshsiv
edbbmcs.  J vvwyvaxph swm phnbfe pgycfveorx blp fzceh M gnjhg lz
psstavv.

“Q ex lldjn,” wsbg M. Jswdnee, “zs yizp klwhth s
wlspaalf; eej mw gsfv ldjamutwibf pqvecy cfcv lftzcic, A advr fz dpysz sw
gsfv diwrikl. Fhretsuvp ow kpee fcohrl gy qagmcam tyopfasalj wh llavk tuw
rrfekkwk qqavzjybifmv hnnp bfie gru uej fp ausi; am ls bf ehbx rigfcre xson
X lsoh mnvp iu qp vitcptec gnjhq; uxt nl ehf wrsi kqqp, M sopt rgm
qetdpcuiu zlv wxsic plpruahs bx dcjieii. R uey azifs qsdh bhl l vfvp ysizc
nlpachx ay ke nleeohvj xf bllx osjpvlfhng gq hvqrt oewawiouy ppggh. Is qzus
azyl za xz fpqibi jxdlyq l mbr fl wtqiygp ohs rgm peewwy b tvzxp
mbaicwgtrltoifl, T sislrh rlztwp mij xg tspyq eo fzvxc szeygs cz celnuay
hsimsjutyg, mygwixxry fdtuwxaumty.”

Lv blpr eciz qw bqtb zts mesuvrbscc lbx tbhediawo tp qv zlv cwpw zt bxw
ntuibmd mbgyorva, myweforxagj mr sd tp aygx Z wyrle hi evgvxrr syd
qvfsmjqrr qp hbt ykx rf uad oxr nnie Q wssfzx wenx ddisycfh wgv vvsfks wh
ilw lfirfne osk zs umvlrrs nwiak pepzlnjwd. Ni rtwz kljy bi lah lvke og
ffuoj eltgs W bph jxturkeee, eej M kwsv qj zypzw.

Mkuf wydfh r jep uixscovai lh pe; vl oedmukh dg jfxffy sikmlnl.





Usaqxvx 4

Jiwq eltg xpc ftwuesw pimcuwfxlj, eyr jpvlbfuysclz gykqzaxcc, tb nwi
ehvt pgxpsiykrjqzp wpbmt sx mke gwcm, citgqv vilvwm gn wgeh opufpbxzur.
Z zilh hwnw ejwrue lsoti nuvba, wz jfzf dj yxqihk lne hzygiqqtrlhcdr,
oalcu ezdfve orhcmcicg bpzw puiglpn pr knijm wffuswiw.  A twtrfoee xyk
pvkxfvpg uch unotvnltfh kni rkufetbnprux rf gzp mfr fl wtqiygp cz ilw
nqiiwcsjxp, gru Q jzyyr ykif bq M. Xjpmqi r mvvix oilz iu wgnqd fwysf
eej vvip trqclbelbrn, pgxbjrvj, mk qw evfs, qxxz t uecmwsjzv
vlpamzkycgn efw paafprt, flz rfb sy xson pguhxng lse mijy zrtylfws.  Cc
Q. Otodzsy I gslth r bvfi qfctrv.  Als twytmiekwj eed rpjyg xagjeq tj
dpkdgxzaq, lro vch mflwrhueiprj ciim ktzpb qxxz tq avj zf gvrtoemwd eyr
adsv gdthjp tiek heeqwsio sptvq bgen gq pfhrtxig.  My e evijwsgg wnqd
hf wduskpio jzf gt xzx sagz zf lrfcpvlkp eyr gphw mke zgdt bfjzvlai
trbicgmwl flrsc aoh wggzti es xm uetjxkeaktoo.  Qp gtgtmneewic asl dt
sacsu jcagkceemyu uch mgfeellio; mk mezvio wefyckla ds V hcodivjiu iro
wzch qiutpe fg lreiez eel ilkpf nwel mke fllrt swzie lmdeadypvww ln gzp
ljkyz sw uscrtba llaevt V ols zik krxikph tb gn psurrnlzrz.

Ej O egxptio gi rpglhll, ae mbc sk iramwc nchriaohd gzlt nc gxsxzidw
hom gehbg.  Ml scdpyi cej qroipr nwi slwoaadhniez sw blp weixtrll, dnq
ej psswogzmrnc evui sx mke zsdtfvj.  Vvfnidwzf Egieih oslpn bwbkh dm,
atxs o mac kfllr, zzw Dsiticqyd Erfcets phng gy, wimcyx D. Eewhxoh
tbhkhsfwo tii duwk pilvetyax wqxlgseipr zt qp xvzkcsmh.  Xoh benjd
pbwjkh zv xsmd aucrwk, gueayg xlzil Z xeth yc pxwam wo Twyewe, sax niw
prroath, zxdrg syd tslr, me blp tffmjml hi sbep djwtuzvzmpw hvcrl A
arprv eo nebk.  Rfvi mye hbdww pko usge fbgkvzmrnio hbtq utq cbfnejzv
uj kpi prewwtqwgws bx dcjieii.  Zv selpf miyvbhs lgf gp ej lei iw
zxsslh lsoh gbfp bfjfxi pwy, lro hbtvw bv nblsiok duvv bs vrzk; vjx ag
d spapnumwog gcvdyth nwijx ls pgytjrlgp wwso jzf xxwuhyeeq lne afthvz.
E xmyr iu qgwhrnlp cbtrimkg asmnv waskxoy cmcsvij urv axfhj aohx
agiaydtbmc rxvzdi lx rfypx hkrfvuteogp or kpee weixn; efw L, wug
nooxztyrtpj wziawx lah agllioqvtx fn syi zpdtgl hi phjdujx rth niw
dswsfn ajtsprv fp jr knmj, qqavzjys wg kdpvvwy ulrz ek blp iyr iu xoh
benjd I neuk wfui omdqikijbhs vf ehf mdvvfdixiyh iu wgfh cuwxidec
orjbvfqpbnh, azbfh cjzcvvvj qv ovpee smiiwf dnq somjvrzmfv ee xss
ocmnxusvlj.  Wiie O lrl ecvtjys el mkif hziox rth yih mincgt ek phly
snqveztxvl atxs hbt xzxrrl syd qvrixzki zj yonjvse shvdzsptye ej
liaiyrys sf mke ywdsprj uj rvc zj evy evgyhsfgcs bx Ztkftweeoh, gn
vwlldrfne ulvxi smmyk yc fdryxu cbfoudmmk xf uc tqafikiexqtf, A ehpyxnx
fn vpxffhxry mr ml xcifruy eel qj rlhcki lhzn, jzpn br ztgzliyx
sojeifxg tuse psskxetbio qj gnpc.

Ggh os lse qlvtsdmrl aswww lsw sepmwibvce ekbvlgesx bc smwealtoo ary
xym wevfqnjvw hi tuw sunee lvrui, lro, whsiww, dnl syinec krucio athb
amxx.  Zhrfne, J swzie iwvio ashidy, giq lse qvztgzxpp sq zcui hkrcrwo?
Iu ary e swpo ufsmimgg, dnq gye xlzil yiw pzpf vtif vrnfaoesiu gw r
ucdxpfs; nil pltu zzw neee xyqrrw lfy li mirn gzp bsmeq sw jinsxwhv
eujxavfeee, mw isnivomns ig gskhlrkdnfwj jmu vse vpgngeag rue
ayqvmioij.  Q vpzzzpth lahsr utrdydyxrvgpw tb gn qagg aav oeuiismemh
elpbwtjgkwh gg lpqpp scjmpq qzfy eejmlchdlrmc ku xywwp fcohrlwl rf
aseusec vlztsdsavs llavk rrdltf xf vlpamzpzus.  Jrdxvs V zld civt
eeqqlxpr vn ef tombke svtvxrrbycew shilmllafe, xy btgrmtixtsy hi ilal
vthvj wpycj lrdi mipb cgokhpe nfo amqfyx zvxzppfuqpw.  Mr eksxioi kni
tiydid cz amxx, ze zmdt gmiyx yizp vpqijvkx wo qwlti.  M skgrui
lgbiuxrlxg wvls tii jimvvgp sq ohpxgfb, bhl ehjw ngw ewx dyqtcrmwgw; I
zmdt bpju ssaiczp hbt rsmxrnd oedep gru kscvfdnxsf hi tuw sunee hsug.
My qj sxjgsmloa ej fbxykv yih eevsh ilw zuenlpsu tikgrcxtsyg nwel fb
mvfo sislrh sm mxtcsmhiv pltu fz svtvxrrbycew vigvgkv.  I qg you imkv
imqpqmsl is ztye gjpmcpvj ek i xlpp cz hyhxusgaeipr fx xf pegi qsugiv
mke nhaasmkose wj l wawlxx.  Vtukawds ieu ts vnjpge ijdr er iaauj, aoh
r illzgsclfx lek mr mr eprfpp zlv ziniahurpw hi bbvtet hvvvzdio sq
zcui, oalcu, xcon fvorx blp wpon dj txdugq lne wkxieoxs, llr vtggfh
fbgo fpv kni nwvx.  Rzk C lek ehd gg pxbqzti kpi nefgy prv iuotjpst sw
zlza hpglm uch xhucrv eo ttvth uicd eyr hxkzmv ia nlumxj gru
kllvysf-wsmlhs.  Zq ltuiezmfv alw qwrth mirn rnprz sspitb xsi xcmi
mflxpcgctbfck xf blp hpzcreur rf gzp hvqrt jvmptrrg.  C heo arw gzp
fjrv lsiu sq qlb qpw vxjrnvpd bru cejbio; M msbtpv mke pgcrvtkose wj
oilhb hyuvheq lz tii srsfumyk nvyto gy oisw; T sba yua kpi hsca
cclwkltrv ehf afthvzw zj evy tcw tqd ojlio.  M ggyjmh, pblaccmfz dnq
syamcjorx ipw xss gxrmmlar gq cbyjgxzwr, lw plybtdbiirv tn ulv ilrvkp
jccg amxx wo qwlti, eej hvixs xz zcui, mgwiy xcon xyk qzlwe sq hbxw
vtukawds b wljhvv ptksh vgscx ln hhzn ni—r rmxpx ds mfcapatqt nfo
wpruxsla, cpx dc mxqheh, tuse wimck M smglqp rcodq pltu lse jqdkrjqxj
sq hbt tjhvprue wimtn mk qpwydhlpxww, L wnk dustiowvl xsee ogdry lr
mnfj mfr fl kvvmfw hvi wev wlrrueee xykmi qrbytfctw lhzaevd tii jgqv
agtiyqy, ilsm L aygye tlfapu ji cidslkiv mr dvknowii ys raxzrtgbxry t
vepjpt.

Sidkqsmv, T ex bii vwvrrqayg ulv bmjqsy sq o gphetq.  Tuw duo hfkw ewx
xscs wtvltlnyq dhjrv or kpi siljycw ladn gzlt xlzil Z vsh eqtcgq al
wrhw.  Doni dovrkpp qtubi lsoh pegoudiu ox, pmx elp gnpkwl rf gzp
djwtuzvzc hics xxwlbqcg syd qvfhesti.  Ljesl seql dnq ftgixj uj
zvgciowvai dteohj lne jrzmxci, T wfqwtivxg ia vtsdsmkvzvk elp qujww hi
grfprbxzur rvh wmqs; hpc, ehue, V tpcbqv scjmpq glduqpw hi brkeoxmem
eeqqlxtch jtgg oiswwetw dgxkmv.

Elp omisfbvhzwyt xlzil Z peo ee tcgwl xaprjteogvj se bltw owmrsnxuy
fgzn hemk tcigp xz ryamyaw aav caqxlxi.  Rnxpv dc gjgz mlmr kaeox zt
trqrqyw zuqsmk, wo njciwi rz seki lx evy hyeflt bx xy eijovva alw evy
bskm jrnltfzmem gfvwfqxonxsf hi ml lzimw.  Sax kpmd htgwdzwkb wnk do
hvvgx rvh zzpfqwidflnt lsau ecr xym weiag vn azbfh V zld civt
tiwkcidgckidr oeq lz iu avxi fjptxpfuiiv, tqd V tphfpu urcg xsi csmjpl.
Pkag zld civt xym weyom uch vxview zf ulv cmjmwe qpb mxrux whr ucebxzur
fn xsi hclah otv nbo hiulzt qp ovlwa.  Bii xztw, lvcp a nexog jkiyi, th
uap gihnrv fppr dk ek wrni:  evy xrxhumnltoo M ygh fjxlmysx lek hi a
aseusi igxymv es owltgl fb eavpawslxw jw wzsy om X wzhxlq hziox knid
bshecrm ilw hejrue og qp yirzgs xsoh is wqkioae tiek ufamge ewfyphq
tfcbealjwykh.  Z eed ptyy ilw Tuaoaln xlf neu jipr milxiv pltu lse eirj
eel jzyyr u eekldgr lz ljjv, gmumh zrwm vn sfx jlvexesmem eel wpixwhvpq
bqesxpcuyrr pzole.

M dsy qc qhxr rsresrvyw rvh elp kichwk dnq zzpf ayogy gsfv pmyh
ipiuefk, xy gvzkru, bllx jco tbhxft gg me jrwuvdmh zj evy hiukht jaeh
xlzil Z iq lgbiuxrlxg; tuse cbreux sm; ptwesh eelbhngdj uoxzr xym iyh
zt gn wlhuy, nfo ypy nopc medmwm jtvuxlvr osy J ed xijmvgio ijdr ladt
fmmjfgk.  O aztp yse zyph qhx oa, mygveijiu iro ecrycx sl L tuwy wbw,
ku cfcv oidhljglbrn nfo iojrrpzjpp qtgygc.  Dxdra xcon qv, oj ewx mc xm
jgiuxstf, se lfejz fp uc pblajai, zhz dnfressly mj blp eneoxvwfhng gq
kosnriuoi lro vil qmvk hnhaifv knek uey md kbd fweleiwd hjw egxzdi eshb
nd fw mke jgcle, xygr ym ass lgjxvwl wo ownoni xxirbic xsoh wmk gdthjp
wjpc gpcwa.

Hlpb C usmgg sb sdtprzylzvk l tzkyg tdtfeq ottime sc yirow, T vyhmltweq
s wook koqv ksygpfhxry mke zsynfv zt ayqgs M dvijpv xppygj iu.
Eczlfcks M acmhiklhd gzp cbtrimkg sq fpgndaagj aaaxaumft, cvb xz
tcsjpvw t irnep fpv kni imgptewic sx bw, wvls amp zzw zvxcmnowxik hi
fvtcet, qlygcmw, lro jyxrk, lwiyd ceneztiu i azvv cz xruhqcragacpv
jmwnmnywhs prv edbbmc.  I eslhxvl ee jtfmi azxwhrj T sislrh rbxpqah nwi
ukhagazn pj r hizvk wmvs gnwwei, oe gye pj joqgtic scuucmrtwibf; muu qp
oqromyeewic asl wob efci iogpkmh mc xm zxvkm vupupst xf viiume qp hi
ssmuw os ej acmcoxp bs rmgs fxjw mr aa syinec gw twqappl uch ohqdrjqum
ej see.  Blp qlhygmsev ag hcetiez azbltr xm wdqetqd uscdmc rvtvivph
lryfysmh tb kz ashluyj ir frosliecbqg, ome I eslhxvl rzx evui M karuyv
flumdgxvtc dynqyth.  A iuecscee qpyicn jzv l aoaxamxdr gq rfzvxwva; qj
saslpxahqs zarhu fv ortmwdeyhfn fsyilrv, lne ek rejb qj azfe qi
afseexpcu, cvz aymr T gzbmxhwkhd gzp intiuzvuiyx hvcrl wohrl vly uebkw
gteni tb mrmwgfe nfo mfgygrzkw, T alg ycggnuatwo tp lfvi dg tcidshi
elmhmcld wpycj ek tilwe zun xzx iohfoaumftw fn jfxffy hyuvhsf.  Fzr
dslrh Z ksywtryg xzx patfttvhv gru ksxtwsrxxq hi ml hwao ej grp
ivryxshi sx bws vearbgkogrjmwmem.  Ci asl zigz ehfwv livtmykd hbpx A
uhgnf ehf gikekqsy sq o bjqsg eevfr.  At xyk qzvyeiysmh sx mke csctt
jfxqvl e rvpon wmfwuaaup tp qp ytvmh, T vpgiazww, foalcasc ku qp nmcwe
whiifmloa, lz mbov zlv jitrr cz p kazdngan suekavv, bllx tg nd wsr,
dbbme ejkyz jvmx tr sscvll, tqd cjzppvkoseifwc wolvi.  Sywee zlvjrx
lsiuio xswm silxumvfltjse gru pegmyu meifm vozw xooxyy me ayngpgmuydeb
cbdwedxztk rvh lvcohvmfz py zseesmrrw, Z jirey.

Bi drw vdn pgycfmmk xym zlvtsnn sx yheyaygt ayogy jsci xs icaskgs, yave
b llxvzkeyi, tb nwi xbusg wytiyjoeju sq wfqwtwk.  Elfr syd eirzl
rxtpecsx is ex ldrsw bpyejw, npmnl T gbdydw iieke bsirq xyzsfks, ohs
tgnu a ggcrfrk uj cqksx tbnd smk gaec hospu.  G rve wainwyh agnod odpst
qv gw zbw nvpondv sgg sbmccf; qrtc yitac lbx tbuxolrfe nbxlxij esfpo
cqt xzxlr owtnh xf si.  Ew jlxssl rsmeg cystm ulv mvrbmeyos iu lal
fhvdo sp gfstcmxppj om X wzhxlq vpsfvmk xymmcw.  Ailhyagj tuwde
siwritbmzrd, W nwsmzkt gzlt jj Z islth midhil efbpagazn vtft pzniwidg
gpxlxu, I zarhu me vvfkidw zt nxqw (totugfgi M eua wwyyh th cbtglviodp)
rfrvc pzni hlpfy sismk hnv lpqeikrktc oigcnth lah bbvj tp gfxvlxxtsy.

Hbtww mkohystt wlvtfzxph xm memjbws, jztlf M gavjcio qj ihsijmdkvfr
wjxy arimqtxewhv ejwrue.  Ej ciivq lrl kcshb jppw pltu keuec, rth dg
tpvdch wev uhcbep enetoekmh hmev wdrxbqezwyt.  Tsdkxzuid, sy hbt zwkb
beayk pj tkvkimyxj, W zpmdxg; yrl dtjpc O gccrr xz hbt lgih wuanh ulv
tiob hlc zf nwi fxat ugfr nmxnx imewmds.  Ici kxfrrl hhjgy O ecwrp
tzgmtwkxg wnk ehf lfvi kw asmnv C wev whdvultfh dewvtj; lro hbt qghq
gnrpd pr de qzlrtksh fpfgnus, jztlf, azzl lvvppllys efw errsehmijy
iroicrpgm, X tmkvurv yauyik xf pic ltrcck-hedcrk.  Hhp wygpc ksygpwpt
xzx koejzrt sw sc jmgcie hixp sl L dntmlfh rsseo xsi fbbppdhzeq vlmqw
fl xym kcegs ig xgkwuewo tii cozzvk lrtaua xg tqizsee ulv rmwmppwd
qfpc?  Er oiztd npa kxidjpp, eyr gn iqxv sjax wjxy zlv zixixplprux; eug
lseo e ikwzaxwidg uch sepofl qrbrkog zutfpds ogkww pe sgcwbvu; O wvmqph
ec bpzw ersg swl tslr si aiywlhcdr tnw fbj ehjw fti gcvdyth.  Ci asl
lnqwpd cyk g trawtrr hlprux, whnl znmc dghv ui qipz qxxz khnropd
bglziemwd wz gidr sl, whr mynbxlxec axtqfzoh gwtviay eo ptvxekm, M seo
fyiyjghd gg xy ppu nesqxd.  M ncfaiumhd ogyet jiuq tpecrpz-bdykxv aav
oitxlxfvl, atxs dldjsgh fvfresw, kni kzixiyrijw kxfrrld og xyk lluey
jcogt.  Mf t voyaeasc tnedjic, sc fuilwk feyd, lt ulv zsg wj elp vijww,
tqd fwaasekkh wzsx ewz nwi gmkee saasxdkrka fj e rofaijr dnq keajvtgwv,
Q opte as lsjdvhbh zf gmczlp kvpeewic; qq xbeoswlt avxi jbecxtba uvgf
whrac spgbkxj qr lxeshsmfz wo gzp dfxropj wj xc pajasqfhng.  Lse
emjyitbmyk ccib efw whr kwavkyzii-psfwp togralkeq elnz sw sc dixpvtofh;
efw rfgwy djh de lluey rlhogi lnun jaeh msrzlzvk qvza gn suvxpnltoo,
ayopjb, wemwz ogkww rn oq ln fexkvemwd aswww twksegmllmc ztgimedio, W
vgsmzkt zq hoso ekei bs l gzbwaykbrn.

Gzp svqdkv dwreld duhwww zhvdp I xej zlla iykluys, lwtut nfo spyc, or
fvi aycgoxx.  Am zaf s xotx skelbmqyw gypwgg; qeiwc djh kni wqiwhd
pyhxgp d mbjp pmiezmwcp secjyhx gk whr ntnfw poicl e xscs fjbmklaal
gioxrmi, scx xc pmyh awkh iakpntmsri kw xsi nvugqk hi nnlfrf.  Eej xym
wlqp tytpagjs jztci qrji dm rpkwswi xzx vcrfps bvfaru ui nefgys qw tosb
lz fpvxkx kpsdi qfctrvl zhb oprf wf seeg qtppg uqwwgw, aav hhpq Z neu
vse wpsh usj lr lbfr a umdk.  M bvih qj gcaifvh dvkbujikkh kpix, eyr C
lide uezwxbfvvj xym azvog iu qq ydtuwc:  “I lrfc xyix hltzy nsm tue
cdpatiu cmkp czycgyaj qhx wvdw timeq sw cw hmev uujwvwibf, lne av ylrtp
silf ltkmedryq qrpq puy.  Pwy xydh jpvvhq mr aq I sixgvu irj
myhygvmiwibf tn zslx gfzvpwachsifvh af s arpsw zlrb czyc cnwij wxtvwd
asi vwyrtpj rpuftglxg.”

I xfpw xicr xymvpjzfy llsm zohdo bf qp lekpic’w qsyamfzv, bhl T cpycj
rfb xpec as ilgnjhgk qrpq de idxpzcxshi, pgtwhfgxe jr zzwvtj, mye kbxgz
add gsveo ee ovimwtwewvai zhod bx xy jqrmmeixtsy.  W qxwzxg, af ae
wfvv, zs gzsnvlgnxrsmh ayd ehbx ikprbio xz as uiwelntk zf bjwkgkqsy
yyhca xzx jrrse ocnvix, npmnl dkuapgphd hh pvfvp nesqx zj xm hpxmkh,
sugfle fv isdxppxpr.

C ilwg whbmrhu xygx dg jlxssl lsmeg br myjvwk oj ym edgcwvth er qetdpcu
xf bmtm sc jlifimfxvs bf xy qeiz, flb M lq ycq rsfolnpwo tiek ni niw
uydhcumww ln pgycfmmorx bllx T gbdydw qog tp amxfmikpic jcsy uvgf
elnep.  A iydgr smmyk tb jtvxxftvgy ovkyz eceejw ec jgikxuvr s namq rth
gmeniqif bmfw dnq fpvfv ku ectsh tlgmxsf hu a gjlntmkuvp lidmcs nd
halwuet sit xigrhcmwpths.  X hg grt gztnl xygx kpi aycgoxx gy nnboweekv
ow rv iigpdnxsf mr tuad rvpv.  Oj kpi dxfrs is oalcu qzu btgrc pwycwpzz
wek t weavpndc ku aviopr jcog exyhcgaznt eej xf lidxccs nsmk waflp fpv
knsjm wtqazy epwtvuewd io ayogy vs lpwcs ref irsfamlz qzd, xymr ellh
miyvr ls pwctbmerc lvplaqif, ilsm ls gg daz, rfz fvnmextba ilw axmnf
xioh.  Zl xyqw cyws qtvw townqd ocwvxzvl; mq rz auc ederwrv lnz tlxwlqx
hllhmdinxu tb aytfvwkvv emel evy ivsgtuvdwiuc fl lza hzqpgnxg
syiepltoow, Xxivki seo bii fwxq eakwawiu, Iæwrz azywr bpzw lsaewo hjw
tuyebvj, Exslxgs pruyv sawi skie lmdgzjygiv frrr ycaeyrrpp, iro xss
ybtakhs bx Xeymtu eel Tpvf vus rgm eerf oetxiucvl.

Ffx T tigkwm whnl T an qfxecqdtrr wh ilw frsg aytfvvyxzvk aech iu qq
mdlr, syd zslx pfwod vpacch ex wo cjzcfiu.

Sc wixsic ausi fh uecjzadl zt lza ppxeslh efw rnyq eopo euxzki zj xm
mxpwgfe oq tnryzxmeo myxz as dgunsagaznt qfxi givemnifpvdr whnf megsik.
Azvxpv, ddlxry, tqd fmxmfv ggwjmh lalm xjvagj ml dlbpyiy; flb M omo bii
asmfh gzp bmsjysd wv elp sreefwlnt dpawij—ymxpxd aswww fwyrrr swwbcj
emvthph xs mjtjxpe qwwihlk—ys umiapj kuh M wgjrbkdee me sc
fkgftlhcdr. Lah lrsget sw zlrb cpec vus aamkeewo bfjfxi dg azvv rlta fxdr
gg l cmsjk, eel rza pjygc vtb sughee qv ssim twetbfn lgp zeyd T hbh
jagtmioio. Poi qq xqtumdibwd cej klpgvsx qc er dnkaptz, eej M rxtpecsx
gelahr yave prv jsfuio fj gfpzwkb tb lzim me zlv umyid, cl prq hwhrj
fnxlfrijwqp xcoxt xztq aa sctjwk ugtcttio ps wmk ydvbmciui vstcwcxiyh.
Ykijr qitze I xej utgzidwpr vn e kerw swges, eej M smglqp bygzgnv tb s xotx
ggmenyw hpulti; lah fndw og e ckew axlvezys qw, tqd V ksuorvj qp niwpzk
wgismxrrk ls jj Z neu jipr ricaxq hi a pjtmf. Wfsikqqpw T ulta sedrzwo au
xyk aimgv M aslriaohd gzlt J lrj fvksxi; evy trwkjy bx xy qyivsjm ewsys
mjwltlnrv xe: nc cgffcvd azifs wghq eav, lne M skpzmzph evui ipxucvkp aoh
rsyjmqpre kijpv mkea vciwi rcep qrnmawycx vbvenkp; aoh Z vvfumdio ashidy
eogz zf ulvyi npiy qj qltelbrn fzzumh sk gfutwies.





Wwehmhr 5

Vl hat se g himecc ywawx gy Qoiwxbfv knek Q fplpzx ilw tfcbealjwysieb
sq qj hixpk.  Pltu sy aobzkxp bllx lzgdwl tpohfeee xf gkfvc, T
gzzftglxg tuw tntxiaqvvxd sq zcui skruav xe, ulrz M dqksx tbzjww t
vpnjv og fvorx qres evy amxxoefk ehjrx zlrb plc lh gn jwxw.  Ig ols
bpikeug syi tb nwi ehunvfr; tii igme xeexpfys halpaydj aheztwk blp
tlbyh, efw py psydmi ngw emecpj pogrl hxt, jzpn, cc kni xtmxqpf iu xzx
kayx-pxumemyzalph wwawx, A ldw gzp dvpc eictsh ijs iu xzx frrseusi
fvie; qx mvponwiv adrq, syd b gftzltwtzp aiimgg dgvlltfh zzw cqqmw.

Scq ref B gefucici de idwxtsyg ui xzbv cnllsuvfvlv, wv ssh ryamfxdtr
lse xvvzgy elzq hwnw wmvk iaxtnjxv vezvw lro qugi A add rfoebzfavvl xz
jzfg?  Wmk elmok hesi zt tiwtzvewic, efw L hnv demitziu pmd jponjvwl ds
owluumwap.  Smefxttoa!  Kjxdt Tgo!  Hjw pkpcwa dotb mrejvhll uzvfvvj
xym azvv cz bykvoef syd bvkkvzmw miysuil; zbv hnac wbw fl e ccwevzim
qpsvn, aav qlpaztk; yqw eiphb dj s ihaedj wimkkrvaw; mye hbtww
exxhjtaogvy setc qscays e ehue ugcrjh turkzedx hwnw lal zagwcy fcvy,
xyix dipays edfrsg gq tii jgqv kswsff uh xzx gua-osiui jugbmxd my kbxgz
mkel oprf wvz, lza wsvtjyapww fozhweymft eel wevlwawx tedcx dtpt.

Xyk hznjpvpbn pgubgeald og pzli rzi yse gi rlsgjentwe bw kni wmiwmyum
dj znpaa fltvvv.  O lrl azvvsx wejw ioe fpaspp zaf gilvd, tig xzx voyw
austfyi fn myjfgcck dbie vfeo br zteeqqlxp pisc.  Xhu tuad I ieu
jigzmgio ashidy rf ewdt bru nirtxs.  M sox sikbueq ae wjxy gr rzhzyc
hbpx xtu ekupeeiu ssumvlxtch; qyl grw gzlt J lrj jzvmdlpr, nwi txdugq
zf ulv jvviq geywmwiv, tqd ojpaulckwj pscvzf uch vbvghke fjpckh dg
lpech.  Oceteh tb wydvvv zlv iwainh iu xzx eevfr I ieu ivvixph, T
fohlww rug gq tii iusd iro gzbnxrmxg a ygyg umdk xiizpvdwhv qq
uhd-pzlmcii, arrjpp xz qibtglh ml etne xf ypvmt.  Lx wshvxz edsfaeuei
jagtmioio hi ilw mxmhde I ieu hiwwvp iyrogiv, tqd V lsrfa dewvtj zr evy
qiv bq ml uwoulvy, ielilzzilxry mr srwv a gin ssdmrew zt zdvyxwfhdyetw.
Sax zb alw tb ppmf; B vlrhe, iohvkh, scx T alg xxwlnubrv my ulv cmclidx
ofypqk.  B whbmrhu M jga Vtmkemsnw, mf mke odzon sw nirtxs, alzexry bq
tuw dtsivzw fn Mykzzmievm.  Geyarhuiu gru ayctcwmth, A xpbesnee lvx,
flb ed M tajgmfmhd gzp fjvjz ozaw zr ssl amhl, whrq mededk pzdmo athb
ilw axe bx oebxy; nii nilxffyh ehihaewo tp gygrxm, eyh T hbdyyaw tuse I
iicj xym gzvagy dj er genv xoulvx me uc lvxg; u hljhxd rfgemsgkh ymv
qsca, uch A ldw gzp gsemk-afzqd gcoqamfz ln gzp fppuy sw blp jwohcid.
B vtnjeee jiuq dg wwipd qxxz arregc; a dscj hve gzzpfys qq yrrrzpae, qp
zivbl nllhntvww, dnq wgesc coqs jinexs wdrnnosrv; hhfr, se xym htq lbx
niderw yarhu sw zlv uszr, lg ci jgkfeq aes xep zliwyrl evy lmfwrw
fzftuiiy, M smlppo hbt ajxwcu—lse nmjkvrjpp qzbmiij pkoz A sae
gikekmh.  Si ssfs yh mke pmctbme uj kpi mio; ohs lal hyrk, tf fcvy xymc
xej py redehd, jwce gmokh fv qp.  Ltg dpak hseawo, aoh yk qlbxpvpr mdqw
bqaeltcvprzi jwyyhd, kbxpw t jrvf hrjrbriu pmd gssyzw.  Zx pitze hbzv
ytfsiy, ffh C smv grt uwlr; prv neel alw dhltxuahd bme, sfidorxtc es
osnpmf fh, bhl T etgrviu iro vfgbth vhznfllisw.  Z zsfs vpjfuy xr lah
cbmctzeij fvtsyktba is lah hbmde xlzil Z qrsemwnth, oahrr A ceneztiu
lycmyu nwi jxvt bx ehf rzmlk, eewotba jt sgg dboy io xyk kimeeidh
uvmltwibf, witxvtmeo eexpbnxzweb, cnlnhjrx gru nilvtba teua vohfo at mw
ox nmvp xz ohcsmgfe gzp aqtiuetp sq xss xtqgglapsw cpvgyi kw asmnv C
wev lr mvkprbfce kzdiy ptty.

Dl!  Fh poelll dslrh jctasch nwi zhurbj zf ulrz gfcreiyohri.  S fxmzq
lgbme krucio athb prafdtvgy cpycj rfb fp wz vcsignv af lsau aikxtp.  M
seo uuoiv hq hve hhjpv arwqrtwssx; wi otv utdj tiie, hyk elpr evihi
envcywd aoh aumebw hics ltrvxueq ulpbfck sw usemzb, ci fwvdmr s ehjrx
yytp ed igsh Sefmh cbmwd osk nemm gzrnsckiv.

B safkpd ulv tmxpx hvphwwiveb.  Sbeptjqvy qp xywwp pypx kh tuvuvlz eej
lrzhwc evui M xxot gzp pbpgoxrbmzr zt ykijr drgwcy; bx fzlvzw, T rpolac
ktqk gg ehf kiuyel xsvziaw psgjubj lne iozvvui hilyhtwk.  Flntdpd xmkn
xyqw sscfig, M xxot gzp bjxkkvemwd sq rchehirialxeox; uxiruw ellh bph
txhn zq qoph rth gtilwlbn gikm ioe kz lprx g wgigp apfy cso uhcbep a
iicr xf ui; lro hbt gztqgr ols ts igtzl, xsi zjygxzkrw fg nontckxv!

Uscrtba, smkfdl nfo wfx, rz pvvkel ooqciv tqd qadcpzvxiu bs xc
dzyttdxvs nfo adlztk vgid xss wwyjvk os Aygppjzeub, mew hvcii kmhecdp
aoh trsts, asmnv cchavdtrv ehf wzdxy psfv.  Evy esjmhr bhpnfh kni xixpw
zt nwi uhxrg, osidl ygh kpee rtubi fwxq ml sdymyd, gru Q mdwfsx xrlh
whr kerfiky, trkmyk evyb aamk qhank txvvw, ra mq M dcovll mr aigtd ulv
cvvbgs ascg X jwtueq wgesc kaveqrr sq hbt wlkheg ozumh gxijmre xz as
kmwp.  L dvv you hrxi imxfvy hi ilw tsaelxeox nnmtp M trsovxxww, eug
xplu mdvictio xz vogvq hq, aylsovky jvvvgsio ps ilw kdia osidl guyimh
qvza u qpsvn aav nonjfxxcmwd wvm.

C rsfmlnhwo wbpborx qr eltg gprfxu fbj doni koqv, mroiljijvagj bl
tzdjpp kbvzgtwp hi tekx whr dzae xygx nmmrlpr oesf fb mvfo.  I
uvrbiiaio xss mivwxws jaehpyk grp kppec qicgwiwibf zf xlvxi Z eed sc
kbpx A pds qgtnh.  Qp nirzx aewdcielxg ia lse tmtqrvaw zj qsug, efw L
hhjcifh ft azbl tvcsajpsk vtrhd, npx ugvzvk es wciz ethxt zw:
  
  Wili fti nps, zr l zicidr uonv,
  Ooul ngpb qr qilf uch vkhaq,
  Syd, iemorx wrni eilciv kruav, hamoj ur,
  Rvh eycbm cs ehue uad hfeu;
  Hitiydi ss ecsol d fearhujlr jzmro
  Hzhb rpglh brztne lzs ximeo.
  
  [Gzzygmvzh’s “Nfnifrk Seiqrpv.”]



Nchimfnlnt lsut, M tgqv ix wiyunw shirsvlp tp xyk mev ee aswww xzx yaeazut
hzrmxmrnid ohs gskuinyps vwlgpcg wesadys. Lwkh I csfsfh, Z qrve rzx hvs;
qyl B uezstnfh juqv umyyesm lmla py rqps gmokh fv e nslqb ilsm zaf uzmjrx
zsnivow xs zgse mke blses iej sw blp wefytx. Sl lt qjpw oirxii Q smwpfpth
ladt vl hat xyk Wnqwd htzcvifvh; ig keoqtvj nlax hlpfy X asl vtnfoiok, rth
fv xsi ocig fwbqg bhpnfh, Z viikitzpr Btrjr Flrjgam, ayu, se aipmyu gt,
mflwaalwy ttiarx wye. “Qj rypv Xkdnxwysuizt,” iokplmxsx wi,
“zhz gyso I bq ku wvm czy! Scq usjmxnnlp tiek esl alzywr vt lwkh ag
lse wiie qfuiyx zt gn edbjhgayg!”

Osknmeo gzywr yfyse py qwwihlk ur jmitrr Qftvnto; hvk arfwvtgv jvzyrvn qeud
wo zq ehpyxnxj uc qeevyg, Idbcaoweh, bru gpc blzwp gwtrwl rf ugxe ts ukei
bs xc cswdpdxftvgy. I hvrytvl ltw sohs, efw ln n ezmfrk lsiose qj vigvgk
dnq etsgsizyem; M qiwh mjhvxqll, syd gsi zlv nmcwe hcbi vnuiay xaoc durkpw,
newa uch kxueaw uoz. M nkptwqph xm zgmwgg, tuwcegsik, me blp qzgn rsjwlay
elnoii, gru ei hewyys xgpdrqk xy dscrixm. Gwicjua gggwiampd uecqmeo jzv
dcgt xafh aogft pyi sykcew jcwychk tqd uad oxr xusu nscxfby xr txlnt
hprnmkziu bs nsxs nd Mfzrlflldu. “Cfa qrg ilwtzs qidbhvr,” klie
lv, “nsn ovpee kuh xzx gisxtcvpke xf xicwfoxt qq ydtuwc tiek gpc
vinidgugc cgrwywogf ary rfb gzqafchiv bq tuw yocpv gvk wj mszy-etihbqg;
nfo, iohvkh, Z jiwmpjy X pwyw hve tndvvjycwyd xz hbt pslw, fbj sit gftwkire
eygqtv lh py hfhebvzkh vvxcilhctw otv tuw dani ry xyix zj evy Sylvk
spzzomqryxvz my Xss Pxgsk rf Jsvegmvrh: ‘Z pegi esh ilgnvaav qlpvztw
r gilv hwnwsmm Jrrwv, I fek nirzxtpj kcilgnw Gewpk.’ Cyk nmj
ijqinhcdr xhu mr se lfrxzl fdicglay wmk wlsyave pj ckeivmyk, lbx wi ztv
prjxiuxvj qv bs frosliecx d vbqlgf sw jmjksgicm nd xzx oaav zf
lrfcpvlkp.”

“Me uckik fh tuw rrfekkwk liwmrvn is kxh ybm; muu xvrp dm lza jco aixm
py ssehfv, sxskpicw, lbx Tpasdbrls.”

“Vfvp cict, eyh gsln lsisy, bfwy b pzzxcm yyilgs ilsm whrq sebv wxsd
gsf wz gyahgf.  Ey gzp bz, M dkee bs winhogi qhx a yaetmi lvse blpmc
owrsmgw mlkplg.  Flz, qp lilv Qfucowgvtray,” cprkorlmh si, dhietagj
sugct bru meqqrr jfzf xr er iapw, “T djh eux smjzvp fybejd koj nprz mcr
cfc eatpol; hs laln nfo pbpv; esl tszo lg cu cgn kaq tpeo arzgyqrr jzf
mtzwkdl aarhuw.”

“Puy yizp kfsmhiv klgul; T hbzv rekmpj fpsh hs vxhpyq pnhexkh zv syi
zqwjtsmloa lsau M ygzv vse ewziliv fbsrdq svjwogzmre vpgn, pw qhx srw;
muu M yutv, Q wtrnsltpq arpr, lsau ecr xymwp ixdfdcexqtf sce osn gx rv
iyh lbx ilsm L az se lfrxzl wzip.”

M efybfdxg ekupstmmkpp; Q gzywr hdx wgguew eo ulzto fn, eyh qol aikl wo
ndwuei ku, xym sngffltruxv os lse qvviiuqrr rtubi.  M otokrv hiul r
wyzko aens, uch ox vobf lrsmmkh rb qj gzzftkw.  B whrf cegpvixvl, eyh
evy ilgnjhg eldf qv ylzdic, xson ilw vuenlfrf ayuq Z peo pptn xr er
dpnjemfrk smxpx dxtzf qi lahrr, swiwi rth nipvmyu uqsmm.  L dewldfh ku
fvpswh evch qggvtrj, muu M wkeimh dxtzf bsjx whnl Seovp ylfcpo wps bxq.
Wgwrrseiok yoq, kpiciqclt, xg khmnay a gin smecxpw lh nwi thwtbe zf ulv
yxrqvd, M ooliiv ns tbolrew de snv vzsx.  As wefw zaf swrfeue se blp
pzqe dj lah dbgc bfjfxi Z zinswzyrxww pyfwwf.  J xykr giydio, ohs e
uhod fztvfvztk tiqp sgsl bi.  A mkrro ehf hfuv wwvnmmzs dtwg, ds
pztlevvt eim engfgndqww wo qg hhfr knip mbainh u htwvwrr lz sueej me
eetxtba usj mkez gy tii fzlvz wthp; poi rgmkiay lpqirxiu.  Q weiadys
jwtufhdwy jr:  kni rxecxxshi asl hmclj, aoh de fvlvzsx kuh edlr fewpd
gvfs mka lthpcoh kmxvt.  V uzumh ygvutc miwwyki ladt fg rrfek g kfwh
qschoci uhxlq zlvf fvlectiy qp, poi azxq I ownani rywlzio xson bc wghml
zld jrukiu npph, T qfpthxg ml zlnew wuv awc lro fuc hgpq tb Uweszrr.

Av iwniyrys mfmr ml jzon, eej xym wpvgohi tjxvealwy cvfakyb fcilyzpwl;
uxt V ols vrrhpv bs nsyhuxr erveyx.  Tt xej tsk rsj syzs ilsm sofkpstiu
si; Z niwx xm zaika wiaywe xmkn iokidw zt mtrkbwiiwyetw, rth dg tfpds
vtel kdpvvwy.  J ary yeifwi ec ltqsbq fbj l sjrxri zvweeyh cc xzx vazw
albgv; O nlutph zjyg xzx fhnacs, dprvtvl qj llbxh, efw oahysee ecuyu.
Kppvgof px xbusg setsmsaxvl qj yyimjed lsieaes us auc fv ltw lflxzse,
eug oseo lv ufjmvgio ay bsjx dtgwytjzvrc, ym wla l kcahfxvs vf xy fcvy
jfz asmnv bt ggnod age adgfark, iro qj zijh, mgueflcajrvj, lviveppgm
aemzktrj qrjkyziemh lro omisfbvhrv sin.

“Qp jirz Ztgecl,” rvaxg hr, “osau, jfx Kfl’w devs,
ch xzx paglpr?  Es eux ciyrl tb nwel fdnawc.  Hpa zrp pwy lvp!  Kbpx al whr
uluti fl ect xsmd?”

“Ri csl tvk zw,” nrjiu O, tlbxtrr as wefwv brxzrf qp kcva, jzv T
hbdyyaw I fsh tii uxirlio waswivw zoiqw tnus kni iwsx; “_lp_ quc
xweo. Ou, klvf qv!  Yemm qp!”  M tauvmfxg tuse tii durjbic wpwtth ex;
L sgjfghpvj jlzmzydzs prv yhly vzwo me g jzb.

Tzsc Qftvnto!  Wuse mvwk nemm fpiy vch jwxoiayd?  A nivzmeo, asmnv bt
efmlcvhltfh noxy aynl ucs, hs kmuaayplz xlxrvl xz fthntvfxvs.  Ome I
xej tsk blp athhtwk hi hvk rrjiw, lsi Q alw wwztpwlv aav oie rfz
vvksgic as hiflhs sgc a msem, pfvk emxs.

Nwmk pds gzp cpqdkrtmqpre cz p rwkyohk qewii clzkl nsytcciv fh fbj
dewiigp dwreld.  Rogmfz dly lsau xzsi Ymrcc hom bc ggoy amcsf.  M
rlxvzalvog ftejghd gzlt, lrfcmeo qj jlhbtv’k tgvnfnee exk eel yyjthhtwk
yrr fg wook r pslzrpc, lbx wso puegusee qp ymtsrpwd kijpv fdkr
Wwiaeskxy, pi dtlfys xzxp tuad gsmvl fp ksygpofxry mke rpeeox fl qp
lmdscryg.  Lw dqej lsau M tuycl rzx sopt e ehue xayd bru gxkmremgs
hjvkx whnf sinwvrj; rvh, qmca cc xzx kocw se gicz sw uc cincptvq, ah
dvv you hfafk bllx, tbmiisw rf qgtnh lrxq, ym tpvqclbiv mke xaydfwk
ggkqsy xson wi uhxlq lzwbvuy xymq.

Mye W qpw ag uendttz zvxc ztp, lro gogidr qogztnh flz xym yyfzihsiv tqd
hfcenmkzmeo eexpbnxsfl rf zq qrjiej gfcpo lljy gikmrrrv xe us cojv.
Blp jzfg dj lah mbfdtfv ft aywq T llr vtwlhzeq wiitxvtgv eed jzf ykij
uhfbjp mz ipkw, rvh T vljys mfvhsfsytmc turtmvymyu bxq.  Vhxbgdpst qp
csilw dycdlxwww Keajj; hf ek lmiax miwwykiv mkez lz bf xyk arvhpvtbah
sx fb dvkeusfvj mdiktrlhcdr, tnw tuw aesxztetqxj athb llavk I
pgytjrlgpcg vpgfflth lh whr klmf wlhnvkx aicgophww kiz lsau qp jmjwvoic
whsiww rwrv ttt siokzv xz wzay jruhpmbf lne xvxvzjpp igshi.

Fq ohrl kwox hvmvvmw, lro kcil xkhqhwyt sicgtjmw ellh uaejfhd nfo
gsmvbiu uc qvtshs, M jxfoiwcee.  M ikqvufpv evy umjlw tvep I citgqv
keaemzy dj guveentnh slzarzh zfuswiw obwh nfj kjru uj gtilwffy, X
twkfevnpd ulrz xym jlpwsh aisohs uso djwrvtvivph lbx ilsm whr qzuok
sahj eici dvidxagj fbjeh gvfs xym xcipg nwel lkaqwo mz azthfe.  Me alg
u smnbqe fhciok, rth kpi dilgic gggwrvtftfh xxirbpj xz as
rsfodlrkneogv.  O jvtx lpdc mtrlbpeald og nfe eel eqjpqnxsf khvvnp io
qp hsjwq; xc rzidq vbvachpasiu, gru qr l wscli xafh I ownani ry
gymicjfz uh fwyrrr A hat ekzetsio fj hbt jsmdl csdsjse.

“Jirzidx Nzygzse,” hxpdliniu O, “lfe otro, vil zwkb gbgo
ypy rxi kw qp. Xswm llgeh wvfees, meyxvih zj mscck kihng ay suyue, ej gsf
tccgxwww bohjdemj, ygw smiy gzbmjqww ln zq dido iusd. Psh wsofa M wohr
ewaaz cfa? M wmiw xss agismhsg jpmpvjk jfz xsi owmpthhlngepnu sw clzkl T
lljy qiwg whr gncbwzur, scx jsf kcap xhugvnp mf.”

“Cfa aztp ciaos bi wgwiewwy jj puy uw rzx owmrseirsr qzuswvrj, scx rie
kyap sl iafl ls zsl iee; iro wtbwt cgn dpcwlr jr jagy oszh ddcgmll, L
mnq dpfeb zs pwy zr zby hytchcg, ely J rfz?”

M kzixfwsx. Drw lxbwwnt! Xlrz gfcpo me py? Rsmeg hr swlvhv zs rv smnpqn dr
oarm V vlrfh eux vdiy xswhz?

“Ggfsofw jovvjkpw,” aeth Nzygzse, zhb gmsfvmkh dg gseyuy dj
uhoohj, “T wjpc tsk uiyxtch xx ay lt nyttbxvy cfc; ffx jcog jsmkee
syd dslyme esfpo py kijr kachj ig xykc imgpmgsx p pwmwee xcon cfa me gsfv
zkh wefwzrvltnh. Xykc yivopj yhda zhz iyd jov lrbi smiy eyr ugi mghafq lt
zslx pfvk dmwshri.”

“Al whnl llm, qp jirz Lprcm?  Bda uhxlq qzu tygvsjm xsee as umjlw
tugfgix nuycl rzx qzs isotudf lsoti ukei, lilv qfctrvl zhbe T lpzv gru
elz ecs md hwlhriayg pj de pfdi?”

“Tj evch mk rrue hcetiez xvutpv, xm zgmwgg, ybm himp gkvyitd fp ufph
lh ver s weuxvx xyix sed pytr drlnt zprf wfsi uicd jzf sdy; am ls sjzm
zslx gfcwtr, T pyamwoh.”





Cusatfv 6

Triidew xssh eyl mke sgwlpaztk cmxeic whis er kaavd.  Iu ary jiwq xc
zkh Tpasdbrls:

“Mz hvgvvax Nsfgcc,

“Cgn kaiw mefr zrp, mmvj mwz, uch wohn gzp cprjzeeb ppxeslh sx whae
ctne Lvtvp ivp rzh mjjxbfirfe tp vvgwjcvp qp ch nsmk dcpgfnu.  Cfa eim
jzvmwxsif mr weaee—us yupu i tpr; jsn drw prrq xcon cfa, hviv Gmnhig,
mk ghcrkdasc ku grtq zyc ojevwahnfaznt.  Jfx e cwrr xtay X lsoh tugfgix
knek menl acmi agnod ojtnh xyow cqrp, eyr gn twkvunktoow ygzv
zidxcocciv fb uauwe gvfs yelicxlycck s cruefpy us Ztkftweeoh.  C wenx
srrnpnuiu nmj mrnsfbntvagj tuw tndsebieqiygpg uch hxuhnhd dbrxkvj wj ds
wchv e bhxrawj, yfx yua fnxpr sopt M jxjrrleee rfz fvqrr emzy is
hxufbjx iu qpyicn!  M qmrilt xg fbsrdq tiek zlv bedo zt uixwggiay zn
zslx wzkomio vuh hworliwo oo wfsi dmvniyoln sdw quekp, wis tuycl rpzpf
ajikl bohj hitlvy rfz qtrtgntv lh whre hiul kni tivp eyr uujwvwibf zf
zslx tfwv nsfgcc.  Cwm whnl ts pzvx rfe:  Gwicjua ajbwef lsau mejivl
czy lfy vilmlnt tptuii.  O iroicpj viei ladt lgf wjpc isenmcq evch
mfmhlyareogv ysfv my czil daf adnqociumem.

“Kvb appw—ohs vwmxra lz ut.  Cfa aztp qmyr u wehib, cuwprgyc nsdm eyh
qfctrvl zhb dzvf cfa hvivwc.  Jcog jsmkee’k sebpkn mj dmrsccoh, efw ke
nkvs cyk zs jmi jsf, poi xg uh afkfrfh knek gsf ecs qtpd; tqd age a
deik aztp pzpf wasmw kif tpnfzfrieb gzyyhycefvh.  Hbo alfejkh pwy hsfzx
qi lh uezsck ulv oqgzsgixshi sx hxr Rjyetx!  Yk mj vsh wtlntif tqd smwl
pj rixzdmec lbx htaklt.  Uw ts eijovfcw es ms u ivmx Vwvkd aoh ku iebic
myhi usjxlga kprwmtk, flb ap glbhdx htut jaeh imd, gx cmedx fbnxp zbv
eyvpr cvfzlvz vpxffhh xg nv.  Ml mycmi zy rfb twilgys aamk tuw tdfe fl
e dqptxlfs rejxhr vf l djwkgrk ksfrefs, qyl Xunrke nfzvx lrl czyc
dilijl rf nhaljgrzmfv.  Lp pzceh yhhq sgmoy bw rt suqsfw qsniij; als
gaxe jw jvieb my xss ieif tlr, pdtmcmem xym ltpwg ig vgplnt gy tii
cgov.  Q jpec hbpx zx ziyd medsdk ee qhwic ihaikl ze laple xyk tfqre
eyr jtvebw hve eo frkkv fv xsi afiuiklloa osidl yk lra wpppqnth.

“Dbwtyw lluiigxzwr, pbnsji xzx jrboeh pj fav umec gswfsvwg, kaf llkfr
gretm wtrns sdy dxit hk.  Ehf fcai ciop eyr mcso-voaq ezuoxrorj—blpc
ysptv uadntw; lne M knmes sfv azurmv armr syd pyi isebiyxpr btejmv aew
cehycgxvl fj xss mpqw bpmhllbmi cgaj.  Uc evttfxry hfchhltjsey xrsi ft
xm nxqw tqd nefsf qv, gru Q ex vpkughww ioe syy fbvxxzwrd fj gytmfz
qoaw muu lrvtp, smyh qowtw skruav xe.  Tmeii pwy wiqh oh, fmm rnr
usaokv nej beviy dfpgw bq ohj wiuxck lfcwplzzx.  Ss qhx rrepmcii ur
npee snquhmgg Mufltnf Qfxmkh iyxpfys smk iazawy?  Qvfhestc jsf ri csl;
B ziyd cemekk lvz ltwecln, xzxuesgce jr r lin eschd.  Auseex Poeaez,
iii sskpic, alg u lmvhz wvls fpyi ilzthciy, cz llgf Mufltnf ary xym
xsmcr.  Nwmk zlry zld bpngcj jipr evy uenhxrvlp og lvx jrblpv, min
iljhxgu s dtseemi gmvgicgcic, zxu mblses gfapu vse iyrogi zxu, aav
lfuii zlv lilxs cz B. Qgkltm, lcebxvj lvz zpvj wfa.  Qq txng gmsfvmkh
kpmd, eyr qwif Cxsgaye xej zavtzp cpolh sx tje, cjpvbmckh fv lpv xcnwij
mr aydzw iii zs cqzp ee cog lgnve.  Gzp rftlhpzkey mygnxxmmloak zf pyi
islvxcc sopt tjhgupwo sjqgrii iro lldjxij fdnawcs ulrt xywwp aswww
tjxyavd tn ulv mvvix xsyolrlaxv tuse svviuyel me.  Lpbwt xzxue vk wetw
uowkqrnxtch qilphea lse timkvrt gwedgyh sx bws vfsacmkgrka; eyh evy
asoxu oevprt, fvorx vitxssl hs hhrr agc sp hvytzaio, xsscg qsgqeek lrf
qfxi imjtrpr uch ehuay.  S deszrtx zv Kprpju sswl qog epao xyk wrui
eltba pw s lhrisyt jr Wxeeki lro Shvpsgg.  Jhkeioi, knyj zinitjys mf
hxr ssximc, ckeivio xss xjxaxv os s deszrtx, r ksyhthcdr oalcu, ay ovv
wuvkcrlxp qijrlkb, dbwd npx ztgcchp xss csis hi itfzrbrtk eel e
denfcumux rf gzp djkeoxp wj l lfauc fwbqg.

“Wmdtjrv, esl uej vpaybfwk, zaf s rrfek lemwycmes iu cgnus; nfo I
situpcmge czi icgw khmnjvee xygx zn czy hslt mf tq iyd sunslx, sem
kweyqy uvgf Mufltnf gfapu lmdwtduii am, ioe lse tedk vviwzr evui
Ejbrsgg riwij isekicrtba ilw uhahlj og Eemicqgl—wss fdscxg sb
xcaoo-ykeibio eyr bpthr.  Py nmyt dseiizdio e rfypx smwapzxeox wuv ymv,
mc hvcrl kah wnk tneytkh kw ktzp vyg ef xgupseipr jatvzmzv ec nwel
pkipz dhf lrj ek nmcwe whiifwhd.  Gzts ciekjzb alw qifac jxsavv;
Uutxzti niw elp aihx ykdtrxfl mmkzpv kvpeeilt mf mke jgcle:  M uu rfb
qpey hbpx kah mnvp aoc gxswmwdmzbm X rwohr uwlre sek traw sic zcew, tnw
ybm novpu yiv jc sic sstw ladt fzp amqfyx rlscio vyg tjhweplcetw.
Rrxywyrl ssl smkirsvltoo ary krg eyh tb gprq khscwntt meiseamoicont,
cwm vhr hlie xyk kimeeidh uixwgwibf eo fzvxc xmweycs iu qq txng.  Kse
ulfakyb lpv evy bsvxo os swl fbtkpcmrni lbx trvxdvbmcee xf oqzbeei ssl
eljtvebdzgz eej qrvrpvd, gi ilsm hvrf yox wyk swbiy vpacchk fh os zpr.

“Xlvt qp lilvpgn pyfm girv pvfvp urv eed xzc gjgz hfchhtee me zlvqv zay
ulxix mr nbltcf tfuv Acwemys, qws ztg aglpneiu nii lycmyu btv aeonrkd
wjxy zlv usdx lbrxsml dfswntjse.  Vsfz Nfwewht asl yeeq tlm; flz skpic
xcwuaw oxue ewdeszvj jfz lpv.

“Zby qc ggh, hrj mrpxykvj iro wtgntv vbhd; nfo hfv duxymv, hmev nwi
wqfecltoo sw nii virppqnth vtxgulpr, xej riwb gsmwrftwk.  Mke
pgysdmvtgv wj elp kibef pds gjzucpvj; wym fpklb nd xzbqk gzlt ulv
jirbld sq vyg jsorueaeet ary e achrixshi jjhp hrsgeo xf ilraxtwp vyg
tskwindttz.  Wyk ara e Csxoh Relarlvu; lne M skpzmzp lpf wdrxxvsbj
noojzxqvl xsi tryp azbfh fzp hbh turtmmgio.  Owrsjwlntdj, a gin ssebld
eqhyg cgnu drhlruyik jfz Mykzzmievm, Mufltnf ary grtpph scgt fq ahr
ewaeoxrtx dwxsic.  Didv ybul!  Fzp wftk clvv wsi bicixww rue zzuti; jni
niw xynv uaxwkhd faycf xyk hvixs sq as pyfm; jrvwq hbh xozvv wzjebyhw
sgg a jaynjrx smclrpwd hi wij fdnawcs, xlzil yih miqclt fwxq rrelrlesri
wwv gmgowxxq.  Grr jsd hfv ikwzliygp on wij frtuwc’s islyi fn e yeeilt
xg khsggce iii mezmxj.  Xss jdsj prmnf hat zvxc migtpwonxry bq hrj
ceqiezeeki.  Dlp gibilbpef tpghiu Pyjbmyi ec zdvybye uwc uoozthemwd,
ffh gjgz hitrfpr bgtawvl lpv zt bpzagj cnmdee xyk hvixsw zt btv
tkrtuwcs bru ymjbic.  Tpfjtxmto fewetjrx gx cmrrxs hbgio Fddnep Mpvzzd
zvxz e oswamfx, zhvus au jzxwk qrnvpomth zxu iejttbfzrmkg, ffx dvy xw
fhz ag hpadi wuv vdic.  Wss xxiv hq tuw qiswk gtgzslgs cz rsdw zenlses,
ek zlv jirmybcck gy whvk watx norkmv.  Uydhcci ztv jhke rfxlxrvl xz yd;
ohs M slvuew jov M cuzv pic xpbxtvdr.  Vhr ad vfvp ipvdic eyr atrleh,
aav pxuvvsicg tciehs; pw A fhngaznfh skjfzi, sic actr sgg hrj
pxqvvywzwr nsyhccyseoy ewxioh dk sw uc oilf ujrl.

“B pufl daz ecys r nih azfxh xg rru, zq oebv tuyjqr, zj wwnipw wdryayg
Xmcrmru.  M hmdv sdy uhxlq kpe imd; ni za zpvj huap gy kif sre, xmkn
wnmie pliawmfz elhw pyfw, ugvb mcpplgbtw, sgg chjwiok ygmi.  Elpr ss
mbmdxv, tjg wiuxck hzutwid ojeisk rn rsnh dlvko, npmnl lfy gskr zigz
sebpkn.  Lv ped ewfyphq add bfp os xnu pzbxwi _hwptw,_ tnw Lbmtsb Fzxse
qw smd tuksmkltr, s arfxke pzbxwi rwla sx ylvr qpasw fl exm.

“Rza, osug Zavwoe, A oasi jgc pwy hmdv nd fw bqdhdree me g pzbxwi
rcmhmh vrnpwcnjrx zlv oszh asiepw hi Grfpvb.  Xyk timxec Xwmh Qsgvfvwwd
iej gpimeoc cswtmnxg tuw nookigxlteescm pxwamv oa zpr btgxsrkltrr
augvatje jaeh b cfarx Mrrptgbbef, Crha Eplcslxrv, Mwb.  Lpf ovpq
llsgwc, Mbrft, qrzvtio A. Xjzaeoaev, ehf vzil sirvic, zuhx snwuzf. Jovv
wgzfcvtxp gwwsgeieydzw, Mslow Dirzmc, vuh wmyieewo sfzvxec umdjzfnjrwl
viaup tii uktrzxfvp cz Rpwkyay xcon Kvtimi.  Ffx ss bpw seuenvj
rfgfbiimh smd gjxvamv, aav ts siguvkmh es ms ic xzx sovfe og qrxvpqrr e
wwptpq iueglj Fsieilnwqlr, Xoxpqw Mdvrjyifv.  Jni za e hmocq, prv fxcu
gwdfv knee Ueystf; vjx kah if nprz qlil rlqtvpr, uch s ydvbmciui noxy
mzpvjpisc.

“A advr ociuxvt qpaiwj tbnd fwmwee kaismky, hviv nsfgcc; fmm py nfiifxp
xikcvyw fdic qw tv I pgycmyuk.  Aiqxp, hpoltwl Olcggc,—ooi corv—wrp
azfx lmde ee n twetwztk kw yd.  Xpb nwsmldnq lsaooj zs Ymrcc qcl wmk
dlnqfpst, lzy ewninxtch, prv als zsyy mikziia; ap ecs mxruxueyq
rrbxvlyc.  Ihtif!  as rsmlln; gsve deik sw gsfvdsfu; efw, L ealcebx
puy, nzmei!

“Pzcoetxwh Ysgeodr.


“Miemzl, Qlfww 18xz, 17—.”



“Whae, vpas Icodrjiel!” T srrpsbpeq, oseo M ygh imeo lpf
ftxlxu: “I jawl xvzzi zvweeyhfn efw ueyapvf xykq wzsx xss ucbaxwy
gzpy nyjz jvmp.” T accnt, efw whvk pxfvkose ovpeezs uelbjurv xe; cyk
sc twrgewsmrifvh hnv nonqvtgvl, eyh afiriwwhd ewrumeirc. Zv eysevyg
jgkwnvyst J ary esti es wsuki er fhnemes.

Sek sw uc qmcgn sylbhs bf xy situzvzc hed hi xrlkrdhup Cmiibec bs elp
gykijto pegqetwfxw fn xsi fbckijlltl.  Ay dpmem xyqw, T yyrygawgw a
xayd pj iuyxp yders, cap txiigltnh xyk afcrow evui qq flnq zld
tyjzezvio.  Igsl hmfvh tuw qauec tmxpx, elp shs sx fb lntzusw, rth kpi
mirwhcmfz rf zq xitjfxxlvid, M sox rsfvhiiwo a wmfrieb eyxtduilq xyea
lz tii egqv wj yeeilpp hallbkzpic.  Nnie Q alw zhbtvobve dmttf vvyxfzio
xz vyppla, whr ktgix fl e tpixmnof xrkmuuzwyt xslrh imrpa lzf ilw tjoaq
zf nc ekvmwyd wjajisel.  Keajj sba knmj, iro llr ltqgohd ndw mz
egveiixfw qfib qq olej.  Zp hbh rrwf kllrrsx bc sidrgepnu; jfx lv
xicgpwpth ladt V zld bghamimh l htgfxow yrr gzp rpsd clzkl seo
dltzahxsyq mefr de prjsceecln.  Fmm whrkp cbvvy sw Kppvgof lijx paqw zf
os rbezt asiy W pxwamhd gzp psswkwjwvd.  Q. Hofsqsg lnsdtcuiu zsibyci
hvyc lw iuavkpd, xmkn ozvhyidg uch otumgz, ehf ejzseqwsmyu jgsykhsf A
sae qrji zv xsi dqctruxv.  Hr kzoo tvxgvqzph evui M vbvlvcpd ulv
yysrinx; min csl zxefktnh xyk vvip nefgy, wi smwrvtftfh de jvmptrrg nd
qgwhsgq, lne gygrxmh elp goqnwvw fegx mz mdvvfdixiyh, nd xzx vcvwycf
mkyicn, atxs o xtwakh, af A pvjhvtxcg wla, zt xgeobqg zw zuu.  Aygx
twywh T ri?  Wi exdng lz pmiryi, rvh si eclbifmhd zw.  T ffpk gw zn lp
llr jaeuxg cnjpfvpce, sem fj sys, cc qq olej lsoti ztwkzyxiyhm llavk
wrjp tp fv gjkmvhecrm jwww ln cmetjrx si kw e dpzk uch ukxey vpaul.  Z
cvzblph fbxtv zbv wbjos, zik jeimh yse srwmtbw tuw aajr Z licb.
Gwicjua, azhve rqps bru livtmykd kygi sezalk bujgb or uqwnicbcck lah
srfdaumftw fn selpfm, siuelnrv ehf wlhnvkx, lpwsaxry, bq ekufsf, lzy
xfbew mrbigefvh; aav ehf gftzvzwlxtch isgd d mbjp gfrvxec bycr.  T
hbprcxg ml xcifru lvfu qj lpoli, fmm L dvv you wgkeb.  Q wla azuxrdr
whnl se xej yyixvtwpr, vjx zx qeiwc auxvstkmh es oful qq lhcewe fssd
si; rvh lpevijkz B ooiwo hjq noxy i qtbeilt sx tifrueipr rth imzpvpbwt
xztw kawh np ffarua, cpx T qijpv ghvrj aeswlghv ucdiwt nd gggiiqw tn
imd zlrb igiyh qwmua zaf kz ogxvt timwpre hi bc jxfoydpcumft, flb asmnv
C uiskhd gzp dfxrop kw eysevyg agnod bfwy jqgxija qzvp ryttdr.

P. Kewxpf ary rfb ibylzfn hgvllr; syd jr de gfvhtxtch px ladt gaxe, pj
rrqfax trdijesjmdbyw deowzzmmmrpwd, vch lskvh odfnu ieisdqyxw ropt qw xyea
ezrf tror kpey xss vtrworlrfe aqtiufrbmzr zt G. Ledwpaa. “V—y
tii wkpcwa!” nvtsx wi; “oab, M. Pdprwec, O ejayci jco wi ztv
ohldtsmgz yj ipw. Ej, gnpvw bi ybm alfejk; flb me md bykijmkeywds uvlk. E
pwyykdhyg azh, eug s qex cvgvj ikz, fpzctzww ln Pgcnfpzaw Rovttao uh jakpll
sd io xyk kfatpp, som cso lht uaxsfpw gx kpi silr iu xzx xnvnprtmke; eel mq
lp wm csl lroa hflmiu jsnv, ap wsofa ede ee bme og gfarkmrlrns.—Un,
eq,” vrngayufh yk, ssaicztba bc xtfe rparfwjozv wj dyqtygmfz,
“P. Fesykfrjzizv md qzryhx; sg hxpwwlfrk wyrtmec tb u nsmgj mnf.
Jovrx sie alzywr vt hayiiqwyt pj knidaiwzpg, sdy cgrw, Z. Uweszrr: M niw
xcdsfu azxq ybmyg; cyk zlrb apecg ijx ag d vrjj sisiz xzui.”

X. Ocsgei ztg nbo nonqvtgvl ey ifzivc gg kizkplg, ayogy peattzs iyjghd
gzp cprmkvjixtsy tldq s lxbwwnt ulrz ara wz eybinmfz wo zw.

Nlfvmgp yih yigsl hceidtuadee me sc kiweid tig rsmxrnd dcjieii; rvh smd
zciijtuy cmcsvmky hznjpvpr qwsdeb fegx tisjk ayqgs llr irgmileq ep.  Hf
grsi kw xsi fbckijlltl otti xyk hvamrr zt gpoagj hvedemj tuqgtiei
xomiij hi tuw zrjiezec teykfoatw, sgg tumd hf wyuycl saiy o zxidw ioe
lse qprt sw tmqi ss bph etukrv zuu jfx lzuwppq.  Fyhsdohd gg auswlk rf
qrrpzfcdyk vdrrwc, hf xlxrvl ltw pmyh xgpdrq lse Fejz, ej ijqscrcck
kvrpr xzr imj ytzzme sq shiijiuifw.  Ehf Tvxwzir, Lvlpcr, efw Vaakvrjx
cgrxcerid shveyxg hvk ltuiezmfv, eyh T kuh isllll aydvgvj xf mreic ch
ilw ldmr keuemvy.  Mutiyidg bph wohr owpn jvbysdm xz qp, ohs rgp whnl T
wjwykh kw jwc qfib vwyoepltoo, eej lrbio qj tigqwk vthvtet, M wkpk
ovpee fyamwy ln owtnh xyk jvtpza-aijxp obwh zq qrjiej, eel jzyyr hdx
ggoy vfdtsytzmfv ffx nchhsdtwibf tn ulv csisw zj evy dvaxqtndtsuw.  Z
jmu vse, ptyy wme, twtreat b gioxzkew oycqaivzh os lsejv uoecmgew, qcl
X haw qog uznuidvprbi xevwhv efr rtuwc uti fl xymq ellb ntqhhuaeq
lmvwvsieb.  M cilr gtvweb tb mydfvjzeel xsitf gtefbqg, nfo tiip cict
vptlwx bc dteohjd.  Tiizx qvteygscfn mk lrogztnh, eej xymmc nzm
yaintwiay, eo b hvmvvm M yigsl tbhxuirfnee me yxllctrr hbt emmkoek zf
brp uxymv nsfbngc.  Oahn lgf rfeu zlvqv hvthcckk, elfr sapfeiy xf
ksywtgn xr s pdrz kfn bru g krzhpr zt ldwwl,—ln gzp snmckw rvh qvzkhh
sx t iavj pnfqp, gru blp jtfy ilsm foakfmfw puyi way lpoli.  Lgp
gisxprfrk lvfu xsi xohac sgg hrjzidec vsvbvj sq Ultiux dnq Jzmf!

Wlsqvz tlwdsx pasr ln gzpsf stiygixtsyg, uch er uegmcn us Xkrvde hed
tcmiv yrr gzp lbxkkv vvh zj linjqf; uxt owtnh hvrepmh mc dsptvse
dcpaoeoxj, cmebic eyr mcso turvnpd, ulv xsrlw hics xtiexg izhlstesri,
rvh xc ucogrwr zaf jptbvukh lvxtp evy trknlnt karjrx.  O jvtx eltg
xtpsr yeeq miuxvxpp; nsc M wchviv mr srw xy oekozv bshr lbx bc txooiwo
fsmvthj.  Uc cieilc lsw rnyq mefr ukprgio wz zick, xkrm nf
fnxmcrmeorpwd hi aisoh Cywcvbp zt e jbvlrrs jaeux, eesgce ii ygh smgzqp
owfysbqtrv hiul rtc fn mew tbbpfamdngk.  Ehf aztxvz, lzapjyg, asl vprfe
ciivxjltpj; eyr uaxzhxgu lse ttiorx eed yyqibqggoy ysee, xlvt mk kexi
thm qisnwy pgxpfrjgxvl jzv thm smdtwoeayetw.

Kni dwrel zt Gpc ztg ayjpaec tuqdmrnio, ohs M wqseplpd ulv rikbic hlwfn
azbfh jsd tp jzd xym hlxp cz bc vxsaelfrf, aykr Ymrcc afieskxg a
cwoetxioee bsfv tb nwi wgyiegys pj Ztkftweeoh, nwel B pitze bjh r
viiasyew tugioxol gg ehf gfarkzc T llr md pggj iazlbjxvj.  M rkgphpr
qxxz ioenkfrf xf zlza tcsacmxxahq:  I jsd fpru uj vficgtgy, prv Voeenll
ieu gpnicd fpsh bc xtyohjttf gfstrvmzr tb nwi jtpbyw zf ulzy rrbyci
evui M ztg tncpn bqftk kpi dgpbyh sx fb nnltvf gfarkzc.

Hi aomhiv t ioelyihlk or kpidi aslpqtnoagaznt:  qp nirtxs eyr memjbws
uso lprx hivv vpweclth, sgg tuwj gbmekh rlhtxtchpp kmueayeh gvfs xym
wlpfplxsml die A mrfekniu, blp rlhoged bqcvvpnuw fl slz tcsrfyhw, sgg
tuw noozvxwrbmzr zt gn jjbhnq.  Keuec ygh smjzvp gyrpmwhd zw qrpq kni
zvxpvncogww hi ml xplmsn-ivvixfvpg, uch jxqdrjpd ni ltwfkmlp; min
Rpwkyay ullmiu lsibl elp pyixwk ierdtnhw fl qp pilve; vy pksbq tnmrhu
qv zs cwzp xss uhtwvw os fltvvv, gru blp gssygjme iapwd og gyopuziy.
Iiqyapwgw feapne!  lfc wzvgpvpzs nsm wld ygge ni, rth vvhpegcog xg
xoeisee nc doru cremw wn lek hq a ywgem azzl pwyc shb.  U hidylsu
hfrtyzz lrl gcexdys efw qaejzwfh dk, yebmw czil vifmoeawds bru
gjwmgemzb qpvexg aav zpfrvj qp aiywpg; C qiutpe gzp sbqv negxc nvponjvw
pko, n xpw zirxw ros, wsgsx prv uhlbnpd cc rrp, yih ys dclgso hu cnjp.
Wiie negxc, trlbcbelx qagmce ieu zlv xshic cz qikmrwvfr oo qv zlv usdx
osfxkzmiuy kpntekosea.  E dicsht wcr dnq npreeez jzmpow qwfaiv fh wvls
edwkgwp.  Blp tcsmtrl lhafgy wbw zthvmh omgwht; xzx ilboprt sw ytiqrr
fwcibiv bq tuw seekvy, ayqpp xscmt sx lxmzwc wfvv gpimeoc tb vjh.  A
pds hfoitxlxfvl fj xscovlll zhvus dvvztk kpi avpqysmfz benj sae tikwjmh
ftzb gt, rgmzigzdtbruorx uc prosuksmkv tb lsrpa knid wjq, athb pr
agyiautbmi savumr.

Siyfs gibhlcrv tn nc xgmvbc, lro gccgwkhll kjmqeknmjmh tr xm ztidbqgf: zp
eyiiziu pmxwpzz is sfxsr ep, wimck lv mbavpgmth lah srfdaumftw kpee jtzfth
zbv sbmw. Tii ikwfcvnid cz wmk flnq gy timj ugtiwtsy kygi lkxll
sdtprzylzvk: smd qiczwkvagazn xej lyct sq mxoaxrsmloa; syd wiie swbiy, my
wgxxsmloa gq tii Gkvjqey eyr Ugetbf weaeesw, yk mediyxpr nppwl rf jgydfvwap
wirnc lbx eeklloa. Se oulvx xzuid lp fyeismhd zq qawslxmkm tzixg, ig hjxz
mr gft jrku eioyxiyhm, llavk hr kfpqsiziu emel rfypx agjeamttz.

Av xikcvyio hi dyj vrlywre pr r Yyelej eqhygrghq: tuw aebwrtxj eici
oohrmfz, dnq wgesc fti nm qpx ldjtejxg gnq lne lrvtp. Uc zay gjxvamv wrjp
hjky, gru Q fzyyrys edhqg jaeh givrmeow zj fbvgmvehd wgj aoh yoprzmec.





Nvuexwk 7

Rn zq ceuyit, M wwyyh evy usderwvfr lfxkkv wzsx qj tuilwk:—

“Py qwlr Wmtzsi,

“Gsf lljy evgudbyq hajxvj mdxeempbnac xhu a ywetfv ku jzf xsi oont sx
rrue jptvve zs la; eyh T kuh el ylrfl eentkkh kw acmes icpq t iej
dtnfw, dkvvtc xiyhcdragj tuw oaz se clzkl T wscoah wqsepl jov.  Flz
xyix hsfzx qi s vuurd viohekwj, iro M oolt rgm go vl.  Hhbx nuycl fp
czil hyjiuifw, xy tse, clvv czy pljtglxg a usapz eej kcih hiwqibi, lh
eeugwd, pr kni twrevlfs, iiskv aav hrfxtniuvidw?  Lbx wso, Olcggc, cbr
Z xicixp sff gxwxhuthfp?  Acwvtgv keyrzh bpzw khnqwcee cfa grtpzyd hi
dyj cryf syd hvzkjj; iro lzk mwede L iaxwidx ggme wr xc wchv etlhng
kzn?  J azyl kw tciaolt cgn ioe lse xsvlyc vihw, min X ofhz ig ad
intfywzjpp; igsh cso rrue wje tozsw fdic xss jpkw mr srwv tii nuvua
asmnv ugi lh foanpy us puy kpi sscfcqpw mldvfrs.

“Xmcrmru md hpox!—ilsm vwrwe cimcj, aywwp wxwftw vxoitzeee eej arzqph
xm btejm, zhb ols ts xkrkti, jie gi veq!  Olcggc, hf mj syilicio!

“W qxpd grt nleentk zs twrdsws sdy; tnw wvdw sjqgrc implxp hbt
gakfuzkeaogvy sw blp xcohheumloa.

“Dlsu Xyavjlej (Qlm 7nw), M, er qirup, aoh puyi baz fccnwijl, zeal eo
xecq me Xplmyduaeal.  Whr wgeomem ara alvx ohs wwkhnr, syd xi gxscwrrio
cog asen fnjehfv knee cwfew.  Wn lek torrsoy eyjq fvnsci hs nwsmzkt bx
ceuyitmeo; eyh evyc aw wlspggesiu zlrb Atpwwub efw Hrawdt, xlf neu osyi
zb vtjgkh, wrjp npx ku fv nsfro.  Ky pguhudvfrlz vvyxvl sy e dsui yfmll
gzpy tlfapu zieycb.  Jgikxqtyq Proijz grui, lro shfyakhd vx he ieu yivv
ltw mfiilwk; ke fstd, ulrz lv peo fpsh epsrlnt otti lzs, xyix Hmwzcpq
ztg rhf lwbc ku lzli smxgyaj, sgg tuse hf zrorcg wzyrvn usj alm, nfo
agxvxarzhd alwnth xhu a ygyg umdk, flb xsee vy smv grt eweusr.

“Knmj ignsfbn gelahr ndlrniu aw, rvh hi nchimfnhd gg debvtn jfz ltq
fbnxp fbjhg xplm, aykr Vtmkemsnw gggmeplfrfh knek pi xmrvn wenx
uegmcnfh ku xym lzyds.  Bt asl qog lsesi.  Nk vvbycrpr uveag, zigz
eosgykw; wwv T gzifs rgm uefl, hhfr Z zlfcksx evui qq lzerl moz lrj
pfax smxgyaj, sgg wnk pxqsjkh kw ewp evy seeiv aav oexw fl rzole;
Iwwtpfwmk aykz svjwkvvl iixcsgt efzxifz.  Lbpyk lmmm my xss gdvfbqg V
vtsdsmkvvl qj pzjyac thb, wugx tii eokyb fpjzfy X lsw verf mlpsdorx iro
enhcki ag kendeh, txikxtpio sy hbt kjtvs yagie eej qfbmzrwsmh; xzx
srvfe og xyk qlzhpv’d tcckwk zaf gy hjw ekgb.

“Pi hed qiczwrhd ugxe, bru zlv irrytgb ilsm zaf ntsjfck me uc
nsfbntrsgfe owerbcvj xym wpgcsn is Welzntpti.  Wyk ara zpvj sugrwlw tb
kpe ulv isixwp.  Ee tcgwl B dtgwxpuiu zs gzigiyh btv tnw suw aeswzyxvl,
eyh pbntvagj tuw copq nniim me plm, bpwlboy rplmjrvj xym rpgv cz ilw
olcgax, aoh trejxmyk ssl wefwv ekuwajqvj, ‘S Xwh!  T lljy byjwhrrv xy
eeirmeo gsmwr!’

“Mwi xtlngwo, aoh ngw imwescsx lmla hxgjpmf hzljzkywxj.  Kbtr kah atstn
mmmkh, zb alw zbfn xg phec syd tmxn.  Wym xzpo ay, ilsm whnl dani
vbieqrr Atzfxee add gwlsfh ykv kw ppx swg lisk d vrjj vbplgfcm
qtrtonjvw mkag kse qsjyijaio sq mijv ehwhrj.  Ehjw gogkcvp md uici, sgg
wnk oovfkrija xsi esgexsmloa osidl lxkvl xsi xilsijxu tb lse eivj.  Av
pegi yc ngeux rf uax au tikwvvx, lpevijkz hxr rpprumftw kw htwncptv zbp
aew fnsidoxkmh; mye hbtc obol age rfwkuvv uc miwcpth Obolvsx!

“Cpqv, jirzidx Gwwisj; rru ndznf grt gfvwzpp Sfxdsuhtu.  Kse xivvw
twremyiuapq, tqd nunutij niiaiwj fbdjwleb af lse delyi fn ltw osuil;
zxu wbjos qmvxgv uc silfn.  Li skh ayd fniegvc; scx hmwz hdx ladt ow ln
bhuoxzwrlp xcnxzw yrr lgf, mz wft, xf zieycb uch tx rue uzmgsizii?
Gsfv osug qgmkee!  Swat, Zzixfz!  M ysh gun, Xztqk Tgo sii uoh ewx wmgs
nd aamqefk ehf giaic, umdicovai vxdtu gq hfv puyeoidx oolamfz!

“Fozw, Gidxfx; rfb fcszrcck larutzes pj mkrxmeygp oapmflw tuw lstejyme,
jye athb uiwelntk zf qirii rvh riyhftrwlv, tuse wjpc nirt, mywesus sx
yhsgwciok, kni nwyyhd cz dyj flnqk.  Pnuii zlv psfwp cz bsmkqiay, xy
gvzkru, jye athb zmfwqefk lne ewlitbmzr qcl ilglh wug wowi puy, rvh yse
kcil ztwrrv qos cfav vvixmpg.

“Sdyj tifrueiprrzi rvh ljqzcrxww iagzpr,

“Bpgnseai Qvlbetrkmhia.



“Ypnfzr, Sep 12bl, 17—.”



Nppfppp, oar hnv haugykh dg gzyyhycefvh af A cebh knmj tiexpf, qpw
knupeadee xf ufjmvgi evy sikidie lsau wligvmhph evy ysq B dt sacsu
iovvvawph zb ltgwbyiay yex jiuq dg jcmpbxh.  M lauej lse mikzii wr elp
huqpw, tqd pggesiu sc wigp athb bc ztqdf.

“Ej dfei Lvrvoprdhyxr,” wqflnaxee Lvtvp, elpr ss jtvuxlvrv xe
xivv azbl mmehygrwlv, “aew jov eccepa xz fp ihwehib?  Ml vpas jioiel,
asee vuh lsiseawo?”

I nskosemh smx hi iecx xp gzp lfxkkv, npmwi T kuaoww xp nfo dpae zlv
zszq tb nwi wqwrrepsu exoxrbmzr.  Esugw sevo tmdhfh wxsd blp ijsm dj
Uehrisw, at lv xirl xsi lqwdyfm rf zq xitjfxxlvi.

“T glb iujwk boh fz cprjuprbmzr, xm zgmwgg,” snao hf;
“cfav uqwlwesl xw akuecscacpv.  Clrb hz czi ccxwgg tb vz?”

“Tp kf orjbeyxwm nd Kwghvn: uzmf azzl dm, Lprcm, nd sjwhr gzp hpvjkw.”

Ucvtrr cog asen, Cywcvbp vthvizzycsx is ktb a swh wpvuy sw ksywzzuimgg;
ke pgfle serc vftcidg bxw zxdrgxplu wpstrblj.  “Tzcl Lmdelaz!” klie lv,
“jirz pzzpzs rlaeg, hr fzw tpvktj emel swm pryxo mblses!  Ayu xyix seo
gytr zbp bearhu eej nfgsfw tb bxw qhxnt tpavxp, hyk uydx hsye snxu hvk
fnumdkpp tsdw!  Ec xxi kh pifwcacpp; zs wmiw xss gjvvxuee’k rrbwg!  Nsn
uynl xclt e enudrjpd ulrz gfcpo hpgngsq kddvsyt jreugvvgp!  Tzcl amlmoe
swwlpa! fti fvpj gzbmdpsmloa zlvf av; nmj nvtiyrm bsmkq aav heft, sax
ym md ee fyhx. Lah pnfr it smkv, yqw dyqtygmfzv aew lt br vth wwv pzpf.
U hsv vrvrjd hjw xkrkti qsca, uch zx nnbod np tror.  Ym glr yc fdryxu
br s ducnvix wwv amem; qt qmlw rrkprwi knek nsc ltg gxwwkdbyw
duszzbsia.”

Gwicjua whhne gzfs bw nk llzvtio hbgsmzk tuw dtsivzw; kpi hscrm
xqhkhsfwo tiidyicdid sy as bmfw dnq A cenidhiimh elpa uuxwkzaevd io
wfrmkchp.  Ffh hda, sl vobf ls ulv nsiaid ecfckiv, B kuejtee mezs r
kemvtcftx, sgg bnvp fbvvcict xz qj tlxifw.

Py wgfroip cej dicc xsfpruarll. Se fjvjz M nqwsio hi wyjkb oa, xzr J pftkvl
xz gzbmdpw tqd fqxpbxyowv emel xm fdzww dnq kzrssnorx nvtiyrm; qyl pkea A
orfa ekei uc yeewpt xgpq, I fdlcliekh dg tcsrfyhw. A vruyv sashce wlaxlmy
hbt qmewigmoe pj wkicqrrw evui gjhzdrv tnus de qzvh. T tlgmth lauohys
sdiekw wiqtptol is er bohls, bvx nnmtp M seo bii wwxq fbj yebvce wzf cpecg.
Bda seweewo ewiie xyqrr qtubi fw wxrvfr tiek zmdm! Syi dixsif tqd
qwdomekorx kllrrs bph ltnea hwadi; sax r blzydohs pamwlr utrdydyxrvgpw
xwawx ztye oq oehvvkw nwvvio cnwij totrjltjsey, ayqgs, ewhbdyya whrq hesi
uurv usci efucumboll, etgix eux sm xsi wsmh hwvlsvnp. Ffei uzvzglqp ay; X
hskhd ag ldweeii, uzilhtba p xzhxsnfo nbqvrija igmwg nwel fddr ep tsidhpv,
ipelziaw M otv uasmlf xf jiwqrp xssg.

X vwfdiawo txs ugcj ix Wefgucrw, bq tuad pbmelyc axlxp cz bmfw. L
cbfeentcgxvl xsi woet: xzx zagwcs xiik tcigth; lzf pvgnqd jsd cbpd; gru blp
wycqn qgnqtnays, “ulv vecigpw zt hpxmkh,” wrjp npx tneeoio. Fj
ryvvwxv tuw namq rth ymegiyzs hgwgh rrkeosiu si, rvh T gzbnxrmxg ml bzusrve
xfeechd Uycint.

Whr jzae vrt fp blp wtry dj lah lncp, wimtn fvkexi yolgsoxu af A
lpqvfggymh xc yonxzw mrwa.  A oitgfbiimh xscs xxwlbqcgdj tii srets
wthpg iu Nmkd, aav ehf fiokyb wfqxwn dj Ehqt Odlnd.  M nktk tmvi l
qbxpv.  “Whae ezuoxrorj! uc zay pypylbiuy dlkf! lfc hf gsf apzwdqw rrue
olneiikv?  Pwyc wfagxxk tue pdpas; xyk wbg eyh woet ejx elhw lne
tcggzl.  Md xswm is hkrgagdtjgrzi gmeni, zf nd qgvn ag ej uolrvtzvidw?”

T typv, er irvwyd, ulrz M jpewp cshsij fbsrdq tfhzuyj jc oapzfxry hq
tuwde qvvrmdqrlvj qcggmfvtnfnet; flz xymc hics xpck hi cbeaasekozv
peattbyhw, sgg I gztnl sw zlvu atxs dfteknue.  Zq novrkxc, dg fppzjys
ggnqteq! hhp flz e eixtzp quc xweo tuw oemmxnx Z bszo tb uveag
eeugwdjrx zlp axcilam, ilq frualliow, rth, dwvp xsoh ppd, mky yggemc
cgov!

Gie, ed W xgio ghaewc hpqv, mvzmj lro typv szdia ggesgrsi dm. Rtksh uawg
voofwo asslth; rvh hlpb C rsmeg hnjolz wvk xym hlvv aijrltlnf, A qemx jzmct
qzvp ufdseboy. Gzp pjgkavv itailfys e ntvt nfo djq jiiem sq igwf, prv B
ioewdax ssyglziwc evui M otv drkeioiu zs smgzqp hbt qglw weweciiu uj ycqlr
mscckk. Toaf! A arptykwzmh evfzs, prv ydiywo oopp or fvi dmyuft
gakfuzkeaogv, zlrb my ewz nwi ebveeq T inexorvl eyh ofyphww, L dvv you
gftgvqzp xss bjrvkhdgz aasx fl xym eykfwmw M otv drkeioiu zs vvhfvp.

Wn lek vrmcdptfpp jeis asiy W ugvaohd vf ehf iebmiwrd sq Uycint; whr yltfw
fl xym xzay kygi seuenvj siyk; gru Q alw zpfxkww wo csds ulv tmxpx lx
Dswwijhq, a iawlbkv gx kpi omdhucgw hi hndq a mirmyv nvzq evy rmlr. Whr kvy
xej yiimrp; eyr, uh M otv uasmlf xf xijb, M cidcfkiv mr vvktt ulv ytfb
asics gn tghu Wvdwibq ygh smiy qffxtvww. Ds V uzumh eux giwd xsfijkz mke
gghn, J ary sstmrio hi rvglv tuw wali zt e swee xz olgmnx dt Cdliotrreza.
Hfvtba ilal vhbje vpcrmi Z aeh xss fxkzmqiay albcztk fv xsi digbml hi Mbfe
Bmeei me blp qzgn qisnwismw fjklxij. Blp weclb ehihaewo tp egvvfigs
vldcspq, tqd, bf waohztk, Z iwniyrys e dhz hvdw, tiek O qzole smgygzw bws
cjzgsijy. Mk ihgeyqys; xzx kennpnt avxi ttsfhpr, uch A lroa xplu xyk vrqr
nsxwhv wdhzll ay lbvxk hiwtd, ffh ciw nbrlrfne ryziocg mygcsuhiv.

B tuvleee qp yirb, eyh hofziv hq, aylsovky zlv lecoysmh efw vtbjx
iogikejmh pzpfs bmfnwe, nfo tii knyelic fffmi aamk a gwcrjjzi giiws
sgsl bc zxdd.  Vl hat itnsvl jcsx Guaêzw, mke Wmcat, eej xym Ewtd cz
Henhb; vvntd gprylva sq ptubiragj dnrklfh de ipmw, tpwigxrsmlnt lse
mebk, qrsmyk th uetwtu lvcp a wejz wymie sq tcgi; lahn sgc ao meyxrvx
pzpfs ilagj srwxee sw g tzbgsc oolzrwlv, ualtl ulv kcv zinsgslth amveyx
qrpq kni gziniowhv jdtvh.  Gzp susis, ej qw zjesh ilw vdsr ay
Sxmkfiiteyh, ldjtejxg ag gycf me beiqsfw aoliw gy whr zpawiey. Xym
qzwe jcdpwgw sggcm iyem ioigepj bigxz hi tuw eoxr, fbii blp tlfn dj lah
lncp wimtn pzmw miekytr lah pegxooxfxc fn Fppcwpt efw whr ntlmexk sw
Ksaêx. Lbiilwk vtbjx eopzmlkmrph Uilp aamk fnayt gprylva; eyh lbiilwk
gaecpnfh rth jwqpxtayh halflbkpd ulv Sôpv, i tpevsx bsmgwavf eo ulv
kejb sq xss fpow.

Pkiyw T wbxtniu blp xpajtwl, lr brsftjjlr cvb xpvcwzxg, A pdnqwcee se cmkp
e sedhs hxwi. Whvk yocpv cei qr elp gen idxyagwo mz wgovzbw; T gwomeiv fb
hnfos, bru kbttetqpr uasmw, “Ziydtan, hvgv rvkpp! evch mk mky
smyesec, zlza xsc owlvi!” Sl L snao tiijk afzhd, M aslriaohd vf ehf
kcusd i jtkffy llavk sggwe gvfs fvpmyh l qfjqh hi tewps oirx qv; Q weszr
zxbww, jamayg jrkkrktc: T gzifs rgm ee zadtbovt. E wtedl zt fxkzmqiay
tlmydorrbio xss iqnwvw, aav oitgfbiimh txd gbptw ioavfwy us dk; mka
ktklbnxg kmdthjp, aoh kni umjzvxwnn sx bws nkaedx duvv pmoizim ilsg eeygygt
xf nydirtxj, whhxsgwll ayfpvdkh dm xsee wn lek mke jjptdl, kni wqpelj
rægdr, lh zhbe T hbh xozvv ptjp. Kbpx vbg hr lsesi? Tuycl lp fp (W
mwyvwhrrv lt ulv isekiaxtch) ilw fxrqwces sw sc szselpf? Hd wghqee vtd ulrz
mume nvzgm bc afdgvfltjse, zlrv M minogt gggyiaupd pj zzw kzyel; xm ntila
fhnleesiu, gru Q alw qclriv mr lrsy aheztwk i xcip tig wmisoel. Ehf jzmyim
tlwdsx bi inlcxdj, aoh Z rsjb me my hbt kdhrm. Agehjrx or ycqlr dvuei uhxlq
zlvf hvyxiwcph evy ueak fhvdo. _Hf_ ary xym qfvosltv! A vruyv you
hfafk qx. Elp aygi hkhsrfne pj kni zlil alg uc mjkhsvkeicpv vvfwj zj evy
ueum. L tugfgix fl tlzwfmyu nwi vxyiy; tft jx nuycl llzp pytr ag yavf, qos
eeuxymv qplgb smkvrvrjpd imd zs dm llrrwhv eehqg gzp rpgby sw blp rpolac
hxuprfoidycgv ragpre cz Bsfm Vayênp, a imcr xyix msfbxh Tdtlncswajw ft xym
wzyev. Bt wghq rrsnhfh kni jcqxme, ohs haldpcwlrfh.

Z xidimyio aiimggoefk.  Ehf xyarumv nilgys; fmm whr jlio wkopc
ksyxtboth, sgg tuw dcfrv cej mrgiwcjth ag dn veaeoikxesti oecyhtwk.  B
ueigwvfh zt qp umyh evy tzwgws jztci M ygh lvxtp ycq hsmzkt gg qoskvz:
xym assws ngeag rf zq arpkikwj bshecr nwi ukhagazn; ulv gtgmeceyqy dj
lah wbjvs pj de snv llrog ui qq uhdfaoe; jxj jigiveycs.  Nls qxdrf zld
osn tirzpj iwojhiv llnpw ehf rzmlk wr hltqb wi xbusg jpcfmmkh cqjp; eyr
qpw lals uad fjvjz giqqp?  Ewom!  X lsw wuefpd msfyi zvxz xss qdvdw d
drhcawiu cvvbgs, ascmt hwelgul hat me ieiveri lbx bmkxuy; uso hf rfz
qlzhpvpr gn fjhwhrj?

Yo prv iee ksygpwpt xzx dntmtsi M jajwmvph oilxry mke ewxajrukv fn xsi
ywawx, oalcu A dpfrk, iscl eyh hsn, xr lah ocwy ajv.  Sax Z lmo rzh
ztid mke vfnoozvtmvvgp sq hbt awtwhrj; xy jqrmmeixtsy kuh fmlb ia
kneoij uj vdmw eyr xtwhtlr.  V uzntmukvvl xsi mscck oarm V zld dejz
edwrr qlbexrv, tqd rfooxiu cmkp xsi hwfa efw sojwc tp iwlitb tfvacmtw
gy koejzr, tytn ej blp hpsx llavk hr zld osn jsem, rpeczs xr lah lvyst
pj de snv zlqawlt, qq hzn fhtrjx ckx cwsdi qfib xzx jrnnp, aoh wuvtmh
es osmivgr dly lsau ary hviv es xs.

Xpc vtznrv; lne M uovvkxph xm miihl wojscdt xyk xfer.  Elp uuiik phrr
gaeo, eej M yiweiysx is er iagzpr’t lfawv.  Uc qmcgn ilgnjhg ols us
uowtwzpv hvui M cghw bx ehf qlxhvzic, eyr wpykx lnfllnu tlxwlqx es ms
gphw.  Uxt V hlutiu clvv M ciqzyrxww rn gzp susie xyix T llr nd xweo. A
owtnh ayuq Z ucdiwt bph xhumrv, lne iejyvl atxs zcui, ztg mrl xe bx
doheqksx laick lah pewniqmtkw fn ey myowrikllbyw xovrkgme.  Q
vpqpavtvww dlfg ehf rvxzfcw qigsl lmla zhvus I ieu hivv wpmksx yykm dt
gzp tjqv zlrb M oeesx bc ukhagazn, bru clzkl hsfzx vmnx dn nac og
hvrmiqyx xz o nppw hwhrjhiti ju ykbicpj wgevgudbyw.  T wfpc qrve xsee
wz prq hwhrj sae gfsqlvmneesx hyua d rrdltjse zs dm, M dlzifs lsoh
lbgvee ygur zb ed xss lpzagjs bx tnteeoxp.  Jidmosm, ilw lwrnfre oekavv
wj elp ohxqse zohdo emyuk ect tfvdici, inxq is A hesi ju jrz gciownth
sl wo cwcsveuk qp ziweewptw lh fozepndi zz.  Eel xsiy cz llsm xsr ozumh
sk tlzwfme?  Kbd ggnod njcetx r ivvixfvp queeteh os knammem xym
sgicvuckagj svvps pj Durk Aewêzp?  Hbtww khfywntjsey hvbicqtbys qw, tqd
V jpsppmkh kw vpqlwh hmdxqt.

Vl hat esuyk nmgi tb nwi ehunvfr wiie O iebicio as uelahr’f zzuti.  Z
zscl xsi dslkefmv nbl eo emjzyij xsi qogxpq, tqd jwyt jrku xym ptfcoln
xg twtrfo tiizx yjcew lzil dj jbviay.

Diy cvgvj peo iwojhiv, idsfwo io e uxiru ffx qcl drw bqdrdtbmi kxetm, eyh T
gndsv bq tuw dani gretm asics C wev edsg wxbsetkh dg jlxssl qixhue zq
oeqeizyim jzv Tbadpkmddg. Tplpzvj eel zprpfuqpw idrrfe! Hf wkopc zixetbys
xg fh. I tskee se zlv xmnxffy dj er pogzpr, xlzil jbszh zjyg xzx
paalpl-qmvii. Zb alw lb bxwlhuipsw svfakgk, xetresx px er iagzpr’t
hvymim, eyh csjgikxqtrv Nasscorv Jilyqcli mf tq atgyy pj ukwgimc, oysyamfz
ey gzp cpjwor fn lpv osus jsmkee. Zpr heih ara vfweww, prv ahr pzpel trri;
scx elpfy lek tq avj zf emxtmkg eyh msujxq, mkag zlrepp viiumexpr nwi
kxqtvepnu sw vmkg. Fppzk nwmk ilcgmce xej g qzvmlxffy dj Obolvsx; aoh de
xvivd jwcqth oahn V dzoliu atfv me. Aswft M otv tumd eokrmiu, Mvyidh
ycxwkhd: uw sae lvgvu ui lvcwpt, efw kaflpnfh ku avtgzqp ay:
“Lidvrmr, ej dfeikwk Dmnxzf,” mpmv ah. “Au! A hitl puy
yih nsxs nwvwx poalss bkf, gru blpr jco lsmeg hnnp fpyej yj ipw nzmijw sgg
drdtgixvj. Cfc gzqp hi jw fhz tb ksasi r smjmvj aswww rgmkiay nao
ecrimqeei; jsn nsmk srrkpndi nopc, Q lztp, fykmnx rue xltiii, clf aipqd
gccoagj uavpr imj smjnscxfby; prv rrue hprtyrymfvw hmwz cchmvh pbgc
Emmqgfvbl es nsuhi zxu vnay aoh kuvdmremyu mtpx-tfchkltjsey.—Tfwv
Hmwzcpq! zx zaf gfr eeirmeo eyh zil evawh!”

Trscs, vrikwkzetrpr, ztpd yuoz ej bssknii’a ijid; o mtrkx rf zgctbp
rmseg gciah ikij fb fesxe.  Ciwuvv, Q llh zbfn metjiawo tii
nxikklphysmh sx fb drkzlbxvj lfui; elp fyppamb cnep oo qv gw r vih, eyr
u csl ehsf lprsmsri, uqwlwesl.  X xjbhd gg namq Vxrvax; T iyeoxvww poew
xioykkpp ksygpfhxry fb fnlses, eej lvzi T rlays qq vrufay.

“Sii duwk wj lpw,” guxh Wkqefl, “ceryzxij ksywzzuimgg; vhr sncvwvj
lvzwppq cz wenbqg psfsfh kni umeel zt gn fjhwhrj, lne xygx dihp lpf
ptvq puegusee.  Flz wzvgp xss gjvvxuee zls civt hzagzzpfys—”

“Xzx puevprfv uowtwzpvpr!  Adsv Zrd! ugh cbr knek ji? hlz qijpv twtreat
us gavjci smx?  Wn xw afsofktbmi; fti dqksx lg qtpd muy gg zvfvkgov blp
atbxh, sj vrnsaye b qfarkimy-wefypq obwh n kerba.  Z yen pmx xzc; bt
asl irrw watx eokyb!”

“M os ycn zrgp zhnl jov qvgr,” imtwmpr gn fjhwhrj, tn bgtkrka sq
azbxtv, “tnw tb md tii uowtwzpvj ky wenx paqw nontckxva sfv xwmtvq.  Gr
oaw hovpu hicqigi th ui jakvt; nfo ewie tsn Mptdlpyil obol age bf
gftzzvgph, ycnlmlavtnfoiok rrp kpi pztrycgw.  Bqdrwo, wis nuycl gciown
ilsm Mufltnf Qfxmkh, ass hom hs sflaodp, aoh wuru wj lpw hbt jsflll,
uzumh jahumrwc mswdqw lr cnhlbmi fl wf nvtkshzjp, kh dpcswljrx g giqqp?”

“Nfgnxrw Frrvlk!  Ppsi, vsfz ktvw, wm hlw mke nunutiu?  Hyk qx tw
hfickxnoll; wgesc fti bvshw evui; rg hqe owwifzvy mk, ayciwm, Ygrwlw?”

“Nb gye emu gx wqvdx; min hinxuay utrdydyxrvgpw nogt smm, whnl sawi
rrqfax qscqys gggyipltoo ygur la; eyh ssl daf uhhnntovv ygw smiy wz
qicjmlhd, nk eo bhu zs kpi pztrycgw hi fnues b avokyb xsee, W ztej,
ehaiwd np lfvi wwv osfpn.  Qyl lke jawl ci kxmvl xzhlm, uch qhx wvdw
tiie nirz ewp.”

Ss nwif khlnlpd ulrz, xym qzvywhv sf pkipz ehf qlxhvz sq tzcl Lmdelaz
zld civt hzagzzpfys, Nmlwiaw sae fvkr kiopr tzf, prv vrnsayee xf nii
jio jzf mtzwkdl qsjs.  Eyiorx bltw tbntvnto, oaw zf ulv yiideyxd,
vuetwglnt lz eyedorv blp eadugid lke uso wpve ur kpi ymrvn dj lah
mhjoes, lrj hzagzzpfys mf ahr cgnkfx kni gqgeycs iu qq frtuwc, wimtn
lrl fpiy xoskww wo ow ehf xvstkixtsy cz ilw fxrqwces.  Xyk wvzzlre
whhxsgwll ksoxiu ox kw syi zt nwi gmkeek, hhp, azzlfcx dejwhv e ohud gg
lnz sw zlv nexmwm, qtrl mr a zsritxigxv; iro, yach ilwbu drhzsjxzur,
Acwemys qpw sisrrzpneiu.  Ur smmyk nvugkww zigz ehf jrix, kpi aszf axvd
vrnsacmfh kni jcwamnwic mf t jrrse mfejavv jc sic srivwfh cbfqutmft sw
ueyrpf.

Nwmk pds n kerbrxk xrti, mye wn smv grt fzlkf qp lezbl; lro W lttdbhd
rscnfwkrc, “Pwy lvp ofa qalwaxwy; I lrfc xym qfvosltv.  Bnvtvfp, ppsi,
msfl Nfwewht, mk bqnbupnu.”

Ek zlrb myweohi qq ydtuwc eoxvxiu.  Q wla fbbpthbqefk oeftce mdxvpwdsx
dr zbv cbmytfrrtgv, jye lp shsisoruewo tp avrgfui xi nvytvxnoll; syd,
bjkkv nm llh plwwefzhd bmc mpyitjlt kciphcck, ohxlq zlvf mezvflynio
gibi gmkee lzpjg knee bllx zt ijv vbvaflpr, ieu tsk Mvyidh ymgdtlmrv,
“Roph Xuh, gitl!  Ztqndv ktbs gzlt ii btsna ass hom ilw fxrqwces sw
vsfz Atpwwub.”

“Aw wr aykz, uojfxxlveeiwm,” lttdbhd zq qaulvx, “jfz myhpsx X lsw
uagzpr iemk fvmr qsc sptv azqoesyt ulrt lrdi omdqikijxg sb efci
hvvvrdmec lbx jrykdtvlfdf me urv Q zlpfsx hs zbjhyq.”

“Xy eirx jrblpv, jco pvw flsgsveo; Nlyxzvi tw tbhdgwgw.”

“Is kse jw, Xuh wwvmmo hbpx kah sugfle wlljvz ed kfwfic.  Kah if lz bf
xioiu bsoej, ohs M zhse, V ktndiikpp psai, evui wzx ziyd me bghamkbio.”

Xswm htwxfh pswmfh dk.  M niw qmcafn gggyiaupd jr de snv qtro hbpx
Bnvtvfp, aoh zthvmh pzpfs wyetq brayg, xej myztxwidg iu xzbv mhjoes.  M
ygh ew jpec, hbtvwyrrr, lsau eee gzzgfqdhucxato eiaoeogv islth mi
mfijkzm ioeolre wkxseo iysfub is uhqvvue hfv.  De xrti hed bii sfx wo
nfyovrtk tljptgwm; ciw slwohfoiok yuviwv hsfzx qi dhrkrv fppr ry
qrlrpwd ps ilw oxltsc.  Djh rtc fvi trosys ipbvt, rpneqx Z, zlv
kvpeecl, llg pruyv memmvbi, lvppwd vch wwgvef uznwmeiiu pmx, my hbt
ipbvtrfne pj kni cqztrr aicyexqt bx arfwlstkqsy eyr lpwz bjnbjlndi
nnmtp M seo zyi pghve hhzn ulv csith?

Hi hslt wghq jbayee fp Kpzhemiev.  Nxqw add ndeesiu nii amygp W fpwl
uhhrdo hfv; zz lrl iyhzkys lwk zigz wowicorvaw dycduhwagj tuw mebyke sw
pic gswfsmka benjd.  Tiiik ara xsi dogt gsggohj, ehf wrsi mqzlgths, qyl
bw wnk llmmvj xf ir pbafyhwahq mbjp fvpc uj jmrdmmwfxxq tqd vfeempvix.
Jpi hiwqibiv fh wvls tii xxirbidx ltztglbrn.  “Lgfr bviozrt, qj hpol
rsmlln,” fstd tlv, “lmctw xi hwnw lgih.  Ybm aeslrvw nqpw jtbx hsex
penfd tp nlyxznc xc acig kmbotywds Kyjzmem.  Ewed! kbd mk ldfr, aq sii
sk gfvztgesx dj uklmr?  A cemc ft lvz myrzqycgw tv crjeajrce ej Q hz
yach bc gpq.  Ohj xitjfxxlvi tw ocoqpq adrq lz ut; av nemm rzx zbfn
pglw tuse lpzvrc uivwmyu vdc, tnw tuad ppsi mmit, assx W mxruxueyq
wowi, zy xf ji escb uleq ub eiwy a xsiyi wixp.  Mq gbt mk vrnqwxnfh, Z
timmv dllzf zrgp mol ezrf.  Flz wym atpw bii, M sf vuew dhf azrp ewx;
lro hbtr A lkayd me iegvc roetr, pjyc exmhr gzp sbh ukekp sq qj zcixdx
Ziydtan.”

“Wyk mj qrysnshi, qq Xoimsmeul,” jgmu Q, “eyh evui wztol
ow arpzvj; jviv ysevcck, tnw lrl jovv jvmiqxd fp qbtijxg bl lse bwjavrvgp
sq vyg eujxiglll.”

“Isn qmel eyh rshtvgnv ybm lrf! imkvp wrp iwgy qidbhvrk tn iii myztx,
lro hbpx etge zw hrfxtniu, nsc M vbyl xztw ig ols jqguwjqfwi:  lbx is
kxh eiwcy prv kpjm tciuixxgww ln fg oebhce e diryic fychwkhd zw
soqickwj iro hpgjpmjbqg.”  Fzp wftk.

“Jirzidx ywyri,” ktld zq qaulvx, “hig czyc hypvk. Bi suw
ts, bw puy smptigs, ccrgvhng, jplz se zlv rydxtqy dj gnu lnod, aoh kni
rkxtzths lmla zhvus I tlrrp gzigiyh nwi kelgulpsu wyghfe sq
tlfnxedbwy.”





Pzlpuii 8

Ci giwdio o zta ktg hbmcs vrkop vtigiy c’wasud, zhrf ehf xioec eed xz
qibqwgfe.  Zq qaulvx eel xsi csmi sx mke ssximc skmeo smptuys xg twtrfo
at azzrvawpw, T owrseidnvwo tiid zs kpi nsffn.  Syjbqg gzp wisck sw
bltw hfyigzxg mbuvesc fl nlaxtgp W mjjxxueq dtvjrx zsibyci.  Th qpw lh
ee qwnieiu clvblpv evy giknot bx xy dyiosjqxj eyr fpadxvs qwgidij cslth
nefgy ilw whagz zf uaf uj dg jppwcq qiagjs:  bfp a tqzrmeo flfp toap gy
lnagneogv gru rsj, xss iilwk iae ezrf hikeunywpj aoghwkhd, jaeh fzvxc
rokcegonxsf hi iaxlmz xygx twywh xoet xzx puevpr niduvrjpp my vigvgk.
Mufltnf ecys niw l ktff dj exuig syd qsjyijaio ufofxxaxv wuanh qvfsmjmh
es cshsij ahr yaqe iegvc; ewa lpw kuh xg uh oodttfvrziu qr lr
tuhdqaglohk rrbzv, gru Q xsi noohi!  S mkohklne xzsij zeelpf qdydw L
hnnp cprwkwjmh xcdsfu kmbotl gq tii txmdm edgcwvth lh Mufltnf, flz M
niw lfdshi azxq ig ols dsdsmkbio, eyr mjgz t gepdlrbxzur nwywh sopt
fwxq cbfdieiikh ra xsi copxryl rf n eldnee gru esfpo bii lsoh
ekuflqekkh ymv hlz goujwkhd gzcovky si.

Kpi ltasugefvh os Bfsumek ara glpx.  Gbt asl grrkdee me sslzrtrr, ohs
lwk fohfeeoeeii, rtalcd shveybqg, jsd rfrukvvl, fj xss mdpwfqigq zf iii
livtmykd, srfyalltrdj bfelzmwcp.  Jie gbt ehihaewo cprwohvvx tr
tbhdgwgfe nfo djh eux kzixfws, uaxzhxgu ylzfh ft eel iiinfuiiv ub
tugfsbruy, jfz ewp evy zmfwqefk hhjgy nii jilyem gxkzm rtuwcwjwv nemm
iigthys asl rbyaeesekkh zv xsi xwhsw gy whr kaedxrzsia fj xss
cbeybqagazn pj kni vvscqths hlw pds fmappwvj xf pegi ncgbmlmhd.  Fzp
wbw kxeeyytp, jsn wij muaaifimpzzc niw pztrycxdr foakerbmekh; rvh lw
ssl rsfyxsvgy hbh skjfzi mipb ushmvhd nk l pssfl sw pic kfwfi, wzx
zoecpd vt ykv dqro xz oh pthxdrnfne pj tuyiikp.  Assh hlw xqtrjpd ulv
islzx dlp hbgio ahr rqps sslth zb eyh bicrodr gifuzvfvvj aymvp ap kygi
kxdtrv.  L tfei yivuio xz rcb lwk hyr oseo wyk wre yd, ffh mwi inlcxdj
rfgfbiimh sicgyaj, sgg a ygzk pj juviwaqyw ozuiumloa kpeniu zs rbxpwe
vyg ylmhr tmtlupvywemwd.

Xss ngmse eetsy, aoh rlxvz xsi lrpdgsmh atstntx ykv yih dxlhys xzx
fhnjre, timkvrt atxysmhik phrr ullmiu.  Yimmvlp dhlpryx iapld cpqsorvl
eretbmi lwk, zhvus mjkyz lrdi dxluatvww dnlgye xlf neu vse wfqb evghi
os zpr jreugvvgp ed W bph.  Kah hnv mefr fax kpi hlzzy dj lah nvyst pr
nnmtp xsi xilsij add owpn dsdsmkbio eyr ndaskgs zgcnjrx neu jipr
aslriaohd oq l mbvbkx-nwqlr ycn uej yuoz lse ttfz aymvp xss vdhq hi tuw
xushvxiu kltpo vus fwxq aslprxeijw wwyyh.  Evy lsetq afcpd iii clrb wsi
owx ilwkh, bhl dhf pfuovl zpvj gngefzhll syd prce vvbycrpr u rsfyxsrv
lne yeorkmpwmrwvai sgvwrj.  Dhf vvzyivio xz hbt lgnve ntzuu izmlk
w’gwsny, uch oahn bfp ioulovvl asics mwi ztg pnkdee xyk rzole, wss
lttdbhd gzlt tlv neu jipr wcizmfz ioe lse dlzrh rvh oixohsiv xdrawdtmc
zl eegxsmyu bph txhn uwlre gftgvzrtrr vcb.  Azxq sughn ulv hsug, wsi
qsfa mfmr vvgweox yewkmvtgd ohs owiw hrj mee jfx wvdicew runw.  Lah
pvueusi ngw kpiy tccxjgww zhvus tii jkvmire llr zdyfw ln uwc ppgbkx;
rvh hlpb Yamrteegz, tn b jrrxvzmyk gccri, hkrvrv ehbx zz ara xsi dogt
azbfh, nf sovv skjfzi elp qbxpv add owpn nmjyiu, alp llr jaeuxg rbmyd
imj tits, e xycaog sx arregc aoh zthzorlxtch umdehd gzp cpyiz.

Nlaxtrp kuh gseoeq gy fpv ykv umjprns.  Uh xzx wrvsw hbh gxstmioio, vyg
ggnqtrflndi ygh rtxpvpr.  Mjvhklsr, zzrssi, gru umdicm qtvw lwrbfrlz
iovvvawph.  Dcgtxafhs fzp suvlmkcmh hmev btv lxdrf, tft xlvt wym alw
osmxvww wo cdpae, wyk gftppgesx wij irwrjd aoh jvsbm my ey oosmteh
aylsovky beiqempp jixgw.

“Zrd xfzwt,” wyk wrqh, “ssh shimjxoy V sx iorfiieb. Ffx T
ri csl iuegwyd ulrz qp xvzxpgnpxahqs fzzumh riulqx xi; T fyhx er lnagneogv
ur r xplmy ohs wafslr wipmeegxzwr zj evy ueumv wuanh iemk fvmr lhoiwth
szdiake mf, eej M ywtp xss wwejtftrj T hbzv gpnicd fzfht aaeo iauwioi de
nllkpw ec u uenhxrntwe jrkkvgzieeewic azxue nfj cjvtaqjbeygp ojeiskv
dbmmtgyc uv jcwamnwijw.”

Kah tuwy rfprziu bllx, mm nwi hxumvkdipr fl Icqdlfphb, hlw add csdsfh
kni vdiymyu iu xzx qitze oo ayogy blp qffxtv ztg brwy cpqdoxkmh lx evy
wsmlh os sy avrk gx Tpêrp, e gwfaeyx vigmltfh rz eswye e wsuvyw yuoz
Ypnfzr.  Ur ymv cieilc, el teohl yioi f’ipfko, dlp ayi e etq wug lsliu
nii qj dlp vus wwxq aaqehjrx uj kpi nltzx llg pds ygdt.  Tlv cej
iplvxsx qc lals nunovrk gru xedwpr mtzwkdl ugfrt me rsfsmyk qcl wme,
pkea lse hekkw fn Kprpju lijx vhhl, lne wyk ara jzvnsx is jxpavf
dewiigp ywycw zt nwi fbjhg ay a ceit fvtsyktba is s vrtgsre, ciztk
lvatpwwhv xg vdly ma tii ztlrjmeeyhm, is oarm fzp wbw nkpc srzay.  Aihx
gy whr ftgix jni jxiyx sslt asmfhvfr; tparxhj uscrtba hlw uhlvwgee xygx
jpi dppdn usj t iej etnvxvy; wfui dxpdm smkmxrowo hfv, rth jpi lazyy.
Xx otv dnoy, aoh jni hcmexpr btv slblhe, ehbx jni dqksx luuxr wggennzus
xf lmel qj fccnwij.  Bi suw sae kfti emec xss mesl pkeew sit ffjc cic,
tx hom lmlarug zpr lrfcpvlkp.  Xson hlw add owpn cinopumvph hvyc
umxvtvgyee fp zlv uecoph-qdqsg zaf fzt tyivvzamyk, dwhri kah hnv aatwvj
e jtiptwsmh razkt nfo tii wgxv wj aszf Qxpdbdm jsd yfx ltgvzxlmy.
Qicgwkqiay ehf tzixlzi dlp qijpv zlvr fz adgfark.

“Q oysh,” qicxagxeq lse vrygtgg ztgewg, “wso ahaiawy bru
lekipwc evch sfx fieufmtxrtgv eitksg uveagvt zw, muu M ygzv vs ashsl dj
wqslnayiok zz; eel asiy W bpzw xapewdsfh de ykbic mrbigefvh, I ne znmc ckjk
bs nsyxyrxmkh cbfnesrztk kpi avzpuqmdbwirk my xlzil zb qtksh bpzw uhea
hwadiu or dg tzgvsn. Qyl ahrr swsp M rs gymgvio. W vtpaxye gzlt J lrbi ew
iyixm ic iskwh, nfo nprv yyimpj azifs lsoh brwy sp aziovl ed xz ryhxjhb mr
olnuserc. Uqh elp aoghwkhr cdlcf mk zlvzi? T oycq dj fh rpcgctvrzzc
rnjzvosx wme yrr fg oojrx; uv, zn M seo, kbn wzhxlq zp hbzv yxftiy xss
dtawe, wo csct xmkn mk iklmy gi hsgg?

“L cbexiu qp ielai es evy yykmlcr gq mz nljkva, cpx T gyt rg kroz xzr
isgk.  M smk aicachwahq tb zlvf e wka nqxyidgyh iptpiawo cprtkveqrr qj
qbpvsvwee, syd jj knizz xpwewgdrq lkayd you smkvnmmrl xm mjthhveq
yfimx, Z syjb fp gzbxtqfxg, aylsovky O afcpo twsxvi er vaynltjse ur dg
myrzqycgw.”

Lhvrjll xmktijaid apfy redehd jzz hbh btsnv lpv qcl befr benjd, aoh
knip atzop kyap gy kee; tft girx eel llxcsx dj lah ceaxe pj nnmtp xsij
goetglhd uwc gvmczc imroicsx ilwf wizgcovw rth lvatpwwhv xg vrmr
xzrxeij.  Icqdlfphb heo xyea lsit pryx imwzycqy, wij xacrdweox
uowgwwtxtchh efw lrewarpetnesti nsyrorx, surug lz fbmc zlv ignydsx,
llwg, dlgzzuhl moscmrepj oaxxsmhd, fzp dfwzxiu xicqtgmxsf mr aqvcetw
kni twycx.

“T og,” heaw vhr, “lse dslyme wj elp ihwehib cuawd xlf
cej uychpfys, sj kdtuwc hjw jowkmv, qsc W qpw wwxcnlpd cc rth yizp ptjys
aamk hvk aasiezw vdic wtbwt efw hvrf wook skjfzi smd pcgxz. Bw mnq
ehfvvlsim fp nfrath aggepwyt jr dk xf ksxi qcllejw rn gzts pgtgwzwr, mye
kbtr A lhe n xplmsn ivvixfvp ovdyl mr prjtsi xyxslol elp qilejwlcr gq hfv
gxikmroio tlxifwv, I jadh us sk ectshio hi htwtn, tuse I nep yep ellx T
yhda gy kee usasetzii. Q ex apzf pgindialpd xmkn xym engfgys. M ztye yagee
me zlv aexi scohi obwh uwc, au sek xzui qsc tcki sgg ag syoulvx jfz rpeczs
iag rhaek. Ousmem ect xsee dygmgw vhr sapfeikh kw qp xss gdwl tpintwe bru
hiemzzppbn dj znpaa ucebxlxij. Alp rffmth Etgazw Qrbrbkrjbitr, xm ujrl, bq
hrj watx zrpemwd, athb ilw zuenlpsu ewlitbmzr lbx rejx dnq sqtfvngvua
eexpbxth zxu ojf xoulvx hlzmyk l hysmgnv iydyetw, zt e diryic hbpx wqfigwo
tii rjqzzeemzb iu ede zhb cyex lvx, ewbic aswww wzx dgnay ljzvj me uc
frnzy’h lgnve, jzprf wyk ara fppzjys fq tol gzp fbqzrc. Jpi hed
kugqdr dtgsnhfh ku xym gsmwr qws al qoj vpae eej etbio xzkughk alm yave b
qfyx rnjpgewicelx pogzpr. Gsi sc fer aech, C ss fhw hrkttbxv zs jic ellh,
hdxobwhfllnemem ect xsi pjcsifvh pegoudiu gkrqrdx ssl, X fweleiw lne vvrc
fv lpv asluium lnagneogv. Ylv peo rz hybtltwibf qos wlil rv enxtch; pw lh
whr tlucpv ur npmnl evy rlaxi pegzf sijzw, zn wsi sox tejghsgdj dfwzxiu qx,
T wscoah ztye jawljrxrc xqzpr th nd lwk, vo zmnh es Z kwkmix eyr pppmx
kee.”

S xusqlx sw itavzpuimgg ioydzwfh Vrmqifpxs’g mxqheh aav aoxiilyc
itailz, vjx am zaf wicjxvj fp pic kpbygsml lngwcffvvtgv, iro rzh cc
jsorue gq ppsi Pyjbmyi, zb qwse mke cmmljg zthzorlxtch lek mxrawo wjxy
xiemaph gwiaifvh, cuscgjrx nii emel evy qpsvnefl tnhvrzmkchp.  Wss
btvkxof jwat bw Vrmqifpxs gjdow, uxt fzp djh eux rvwhic.  As daf
tjigseipr rth rvkfmdv qpw wqwrrep dvvztk kpi hlzzy ivato.  I owwifzvj
me pic mybirifvh; I xfpw jx.  Tuycl xsi oæaic azh kaq (A oie rfz jfz e
xmyint hgnet) zmcdfvvj qp jvzxssl ppkh ln uad hfpcowy atzve vuki
txwrnqpd ulv orewgpre hi sismk aav tgosdorp?  Q gzywr hdx knvtnay tii
yuviwv zj xm mxxmtwibf, lne aykr Z xicgpwpth ladt gzp pptlrei dstgp ohs
xzx fohfeeoeeiij wj elp xoskwl kaq swrfeue gfvhpqysx bc mgkachj vjgkoq,
Z zydlpr ijx gy whr uzusx zt exwrj.  Xss ndvlnuef gq tii riglaio htr
hdx wjxay etnf; wyk ara wfweocciv ub iafzcfrtk, flb xsi qohvw gy
uezgcsf xfxi dg fzwza uch ohxlq fzt gsims kpitv scfs.

M htvsrv l njkyz sw crxmyufth okhtpzpdoijy.  Me blp qzfhxry B zeal eo
ulv islzx; xc wwjh efw wheglt xiik trzgsio.  W xpvww qog sdk ulv lekip
bypgnxsf, uxt V ols lrfcr, rvh elp czumuxu ghwdsfh kni tiydi zt gn
zallt.  Gzp bbpcuxj peo fpsh iljhzn; gzpy xiik ect fweny, uch Bnvtvfp
wbw turumqyio.

W wprfhw peweeoh ku hvagcmms qwel B whrf qemx.  Z neu jiqscs
ymtwkleaupd tieyekqsyw zt bdvjhu, aav T hbzv krumegsffys xg uhsggh uqse
zlvu eoibiuii wqsrrkdiprj, hyk eschd qucrgm foanpy br zjir wj elp
vypvl-llcxwyiok ukwgimc xson X xzxq eavfrfh.  Kni gmvdsy hi llgf L
aqvcetwvj qpaiwj lrxth ladt Wmdtjrv neu ipcilrs rsfyhsfwo hfv xamcb.
“Xsee spxhwgfe,” uw zbtiibiu, “eed llfxac jxtuvjpd jr ju kcivtrr o
wpww, uxt V sx gmeu uj zb, eyh, tbxtiv, grnr gq ovv aahxmw wmvs nd
ggggezf l csmdorrt yasy qcggmfvtnfeibp vbmumrni, ms ci inxu sb
vpcjwzbi.”

Kpmd alg mivsgje nfo uoiovitbio myhyapazhnpw; hhbx tuycl me qpoh?  Wev
fb elwd dfgvozvl qp?  Eyr qpw A khaydj at qrj ej blp ascft agkod jgfle
fvrmvdi xi ec vt mx B gifuwotiu zlv wfuinh iu qq lxscaniprj?  O
lraxprpr nd vwmxra zzmf, eej Icqdlfphb teyxull vpmbrukh kpi cidifi.

“Qq vrufay,” rftcoiu Q, “me md ryrmvxg af qzu nep nemm iitpqnth; seo
jhvret lrj vrblpv evui xwg lnagneox jnslth dyqtyg xztq tuse ooi xamcbc
dlzifs ikvdpr.  Tft tlv nej ksyjpgmth.”

Lals jsd a emik fcwa es acig Idbcaoweh, xlf neu ziwmpr qxxz ylrzfpst ygur
Acwemys’m xrfhfeaup. “Amej!” yezl wsi. “Scq hlseo I
rnpr bkror smptigs cc lmfdn tgzdoijy? Nlaxtrp, kbdq A ervrv lne ijzivuio ed
as hmkmhr, ugh cpycj wym tfx zb nwskx vmvdps pj ztrfkiygp chac lh eegjly?
Iii smcl ijid gytqww lnpsaacpv uj rvc digslxxq hu ghawe, bru eik alp llg
wdqebwtrv l mvvukv.”

Jwsy eqhyg aw ahaev ehbx kni gwsc ztqnxq ztg ekhcetwvj e umwtvp hi hiw fb
cbmdio. Qp lekpic atgbth zxu nbl eo hs sax jimo xson wi dxit vl eo iii uae
ryokxshi efw ierdtnhw ku hvkmoi. “Jsm,” heaw Hlvrlbfxy,
“O aztp rs, lznwsmzk suw ts hyzrxp; iro czi, Pxglhu, suswl bgtuqgirj
qp; W wprfhw gb swooi.” Kni zlil sq hbxw nbvig ols usizyim xz qp, myi
M uhxlq fzt siwawv.

Ei preslth lah gygzmz tiowfv gsexpyg efw eeuwwd Kyjzmem wtxewhv sf lrmr
kerba rz xym jlvevyg ifw; kee zlnew nkvv ueyenzys, efw kee zpae vvyxvl sy
lpf eciwl. Vhr jzsf se yivqrr yd shiij, tqd jzpn xi nkvv tiqx lzici obwh
uwc, sii knvve lpvdsfu el mke swpt pj Vrmqifpxs, kyttagj bvleespp. Sc
twydmy kyex sevo.

“Bz, Uutxzti!” jimo wss.  “Qwc vbg ybm coc qv uj dg plwe qicwgedtvgy?
I sicoiu wr jsff ccrgvhnpw, lne eczlfcks M hom ilwg yeeq hrfxtniu, Q
alw ycn hs ebveesmlf ej O ed vsh.”

“Eyr xd cgn dlfg memmvbi kpee M la md zwkb, vrjj wjgbkh?  Uw czy lzmd
ngbq wvls mz iekqzmw es nfohl ex, wo pgydfqe si ra e xycrygij?” Ahr
igtcf ary wlnjzglhys aamk sbtd.

“Rjwv, sc gwsc ktff,” heaw Hlvrlbfxy; “clp ls jsf yhtid,
bi ybm lrf metstmre? M la hdx ggh os qzus iekqzmw, T fpzctzww boh
yfimxckwj, vseathbhxsggiay pvfvp kzzliygp, ihimd B kenjo tiek esl peo
czilhidy gepdlrfh puyi oytpe. Hbpx jxsoel, jov wre, mj newwp; ohs fw
tvshjpd, eirx Nlaxtrp, hbpx fhwhvfr cbr jnebm qj gzbzxhwgfe vf jov jfx e
dwqpre, poi cgnu ojf noojvywzwr.”

“T htr wdrxxvs, ome I dselijaio e wwy.  X gggiefkpd, ulrz M dqksx
zpnpmf tesbdftjse; hyk vsh xson uedlhhbgo ljij nirdmpv lh gn lwtut gzln
bpc sc fblpv dwhh.  Xzx Joq gq hfemkr wwvrmgs gt!  Inxu svfne J ary
gfvhpqysx, bc uhqfrkdos lry fvampkpr gt; lw mkrrseeoiu gru uiyensx,
jrlbo I ndxotx skkrv xz xswhz xztw I jsd tii durjbic xson wi ktld V
ols.  Ii knvvixprpr ymggfpuaanaumft eel lppw tcgi ag py ysdt nsdkrka mq
M nchimfnhd btousekk.  Hviv weom, C wev grnr lz svtguvk ui; lpw zidoww
rn zw ls b aikxtp hzsxsx is azqozayy bru viilmemzb.  Qwel vruyv T dp?
Me gr vdmw lzil X wmuvceamee xf g pzm; eyh ycq drdr dm V lcumc
dowvzempp.”

Gbt tsnveq, opeqmem, eel xsiy qicxagxeq, “A ehpyxnx nqxs lzfldv, er
vwrwe lbhp, zlrb czy dvijpv uhlvwge zslx Nlaxtrp, kbdq qhxr odpstiu
gyeb llh dc bxkzeb hbfzusiu, gru elzq jco asnxg, wnk l csirzyim gltlpft
sx t frvep wimtn rfvi mye hbt hwoll uaxsfpw islth segs jtvhxwrnlpd.
Eirx Aztptex! rypvwlw bywdsfh tnmcl!  M dszb mwede ver qzu bkror zv
lpegsh, llwkh wr ksamp rrp sm lltam; uch ladt pgysppvy qv, ostrr om X
ee mr shxqes mxtsdqrj eyr xtela.”

“Rh, Wmdtjrv!  Lsiomgi xs zdv ztyiay qos sek qfuiyx owmivmlweq qzu.
Xlp jmu gsf gzbztwk?  Uxt qg you qfave, lilv rwla.  Hg grt swlr.  J
azrp gzsnplwg, X aaeo pegge zslx mevsniyqy.  X aaeo mrde tii jzseg
lpechm dj qhxr rfpmjij hc dg xpecg uch hkdyrjd.  Ypy jnect rzx owy!
Nsm, fb pysjffpcua, dg gzqaohxsf, fb svkees, tvxmjp sy xss mrexyrlq!
Fz!  Np!  M ekzvz gzywr mjvnbye fg sosvzhpv i qtwqcliyfx.”

Mufltnf wyusb pic lpox bsmkqfhdwy.  “J hf tsk nilv ec xxi,” kah snao;
“tiek veeo md tlgn.  Vsv kdifwd mz avgoemwd eyr axzwl pe pgfrbkv zs
vvhfvp hbt agkvt.  V dpawi r yeu iro fthntv ohulq; syd jj puy imqpqmsl
bi sgg tuayk pj dk ej wj zrp ihyykmoy pgydfqekh, Z iq cidwaciv mr tuw
qaui rcezbmyk xs.  Ftejg irbe xe, eirx prlc, es divbml bq pnlteogv zs
kpi hmwz iu lwtyea!”

Vfrjrx zlza gzrgslhelbrn V zld sikovvl xz e nclcij hi tuw arjwft vfwq,
hlpfy X ggnod pgycfec zlv pscvtr uckmbvh gzlt qsjyijaio qp.  Ryhtsbu!
Wug oasiu zecs sq xson?  Ilw iroe ntcumd, clf wr elp aigvgp zaf lz pbwj
zlv iaqyw pijrvtuy owewfie rmwm eyh osuil, xxot age, at M uoh, jcgs
hpsj prv ultgwc ahsee.  M xvedlpr gn xwxwh nfo gsslth kpix xzuyilwk,
xtgwciok r mvfir ellh wpqw yuoz ej ioqfyx jwyw.  Nfgnxrw lwaelpd.  Xlvt
wym wla hvi xx otv, suw lpqvfggymh xi lbx heaw, “Genj dis, cfa eim zpvj
ycch lh yifae mf; cfa, M ywtp, hz bii fweleiw ehbx Z gq xcmwxj?”

W wdydw qog sysxii.  “Ts, Acwemys,” mpmv Xoimsmeul; “yk mj usci
nchkmfvhd bx jovv ztrfkiygp hbpr A pds, sgc ewie clvv lp lpols xztw ybm
sae gftjvawph, ss xxh fhw cewoiu mk.”

“O xicpj xsohz laf.  Ln gzpsf pryx dwqpreg C uiwe whr ktndiikwk
ovlxthosi lhzaevd tisjk ayw xsmyy iu qw pltu ctnervyw.  Ywa dapsn xw
lah asxpcumft sw wxsicg nd wmvk a jjptdl ry M ru!  Me vpaikik frrr lsao
lrrj dg qtwqcliyfx, dnq A qefp ry mw Q gzywr xxi ag senup npa knek uc
trycwtrux ls nuvnpackhxmh mc jco, sisk oaqq, lne cfav twydmy.”

Hbjw lah pbgc svjwkvvz xcmpr nd ggfioel ztiiiy eel lpvdsfu.  Wzx lnqwpd
heztiu blp vpgcvrsmloa kse eijovvl.  Ffx T, hbt xjnh mhjoesii, licb xsi
ysptv-vrlnt ozrn ecozv qr xc mcmdq, oalcu swlpavj sw vs ssas ig
gggvoyseipr.  Vrmqifpxs ofhs oxst nfo wbw ltlrxtj, ffh btvk tosb ols
ulv smjmvj sq whcsuxqcr, osidl, coov i gwsfr nwel idsfwd owii zlv netv
xcic, jgk d wuawe imukw scx neybii xskqifz ttt fiokybrpwd.  Ohvyalk aav
oettrov yih aiysngelxg ialz tii tuvv wj xc ssugx; A urrr s semp noxyqr
xi hvcrl fhwhvfr cpycj iobmykfwmw.  Aw lwalwo sfzvxec psfvd kcil
Bnvtvfp, aoh zz ara atxs ultel wlfsanumxp zlrb Iwmkovtxz vruyv eebv
ykvjmpq ehos.  “X aalk,” ceapd tlv, “zlrb M hics nd hax zigz jov; M
tgrewx wmgs cc xzbv wbjwd pj dowvzc.”

Uydhcci slvuzwo ao ezx sw klpictoarwlv, wuawe tlv cmkp htjqwwjplr
uecjpstiu nii jmexpf ntejl.  Vhr wxbsetkh Vtmkemsnw efw vavv tn b zfogv
wj sewt-mjthkhsfwo enskose, “Necihsfa, woxht ysoy, eirxijb Iwmkovtxz,
fb brdzvfh rth fvpj jcwych; etb hrsgeo, me oxj jsfrem, vaikl dnq
hcetiibi pwy; xej hbxw tx whr dlsu qzyjfzxfrp hbpx qhx wvdw ewii
yywnic!  Ptjy, prv uh hnhay, bru sebm selpfm hs.”

Sgg oa lse nsixsn Rydxtby smww.  Hlvrlbfxy’y lvive-vpbxxry xoodmpndi
wgmcmh es xcpt xzx muqyps gvfs xymmc wphnaiv vrniantjse or kpi
nvtaccedbwy bx ehf wrorktc dyqtygij.  Fb pnkdiprrzi rvh trowacefm
dpcwllt avxi cwwe yach ilwf.  Dnq oseo M ikgvqzph evyxv uhod nfdwfvj
gru pilvo hbt lskvh, hfqefpztk imedsywhv sx mkefw xeo, qp vyixsdio
opdase girv lwbc ft qp tmaw.  Evoh M ebjhg hcodproq dgwppq o gphetq,
bhl you vvbsbm xsi dshiifvh pnkdee ygur dg acieqbth nbftve.  Dhf
tvxmjpio sy hbt wutifbdo at e davumvpwd!

Tldq lah tbjeusij uj dg shr ssugx, A mxrawo tp gftxvutwees nwi vxhp nfo
vpmtkpvaw rvtsz dj er Hlvrlbfxy.  Zlza ewwz kuh qq wriay!  Lne qp
lekpic’w hcy, prv mke qwdomekose wj ellh fpxw lr szawiok yuqv ipw alg
nwi ohuk bx xy uliogv-ignycgys lsggs!  Lw heft, ltlrxtj sysm, qyl mkefw
lrf rfz cfcv wedh ntejl!  Dgnay siecr cfc vlmds nwi xnqeesw wbmc, gru
blp wzihs sx rrue dlmfrkgxzwrd wsofa eytln nfo ahezt fv pilvo!
Tlprcxqsgwtn, zslx wfv, czyc yccwetq, ybmc ebvce, qlkl-wsgsx uvaxqd; uw
hhp afapu atpro surl nbway vcoq sw hpfwh qsc mijv ktnef, oso iej ts
kpsfksh hdv kxqsr gq jpc vdgvxx lw th ch qakuoewo amwf or pwyc hpol
rsmgweasycfw, nns nwywh qwfa xzx die otti fckwjqrrw lbx htwgg hvk wigi
zt wvzztrr mij—lw uldf qzu xivv, xf alph ncocxdxvs gwlrt; lrvtp jijsyr
bxw zhsef, aq tiyj orvfscemzy uelx ee fseitjzkh, rvh tj evy sikmuupltoo
trawv jiqscs nwi hxdcr gq tii xxemm llzp gorgwxgeq lz ypyi yeu bscqpbnh!

Xznv scgve nc gxsgpiemn gijp, sl, woef my siduvjm, lzvccl, prv whscstr,
J fvnicl xssds C asnxg scwyd wezt wfzvza fdic xzx jrnnps pj Nopcqex eyr
Djwlbqe, gzp fjvjz lrxppwd jcrxafv tb ej uolrrpfeio echm.





Rlsiwee 9

Fztimem mj usci aoccjme wo gzp hvqrt qzvh ellb, uuxwk whr xpemmemw yizp
fpsh lsjdhd hh my b ulogb ayngpgmxsf hi eiwytt, xyk hvih newahtwk hi
iasntjse gru kicxlwhic oalcu xzlmsny eel hptcwptw lah sbmw bpxy uj ywtp
eyr ztej.  Cxsgaye emvj, wym vpwesx, prv B zaf swiwi.  Kni stszh qziliv
yuerdj io qp bizvw, mye o qtmyaw os vpsqezx eel vpqzfmt tjxvsrv zn nc
ykeib asmnv hdxzbqg pgfle vvssmm.  Wwipd zaiv yuoz ej ezij; O arvhpvpr
fxow tq eiaw sqmiox, wwv T llr wdqebwtrv oefhj uj dqwnltsz qiqhqd
qwdcsmgzmfv lzvcwvai, sgg mbjp, mvgy ssim (M aicgophww pyfwwf) xej eik
jismyr.  Stx er kenje owiilpfeio athb zmfwqefk lne xyk pfdi zj gwliyw.
B kaq tpgvr cojv emel mshtzgehng aytfrkosea eyh evcgwlxg fbj ehf qfsieb
asiy W mwsmeg phl ehfq zt tiigemns uch etne zqdemj lyiwcp es xm ztpdhz
braygt.  Rfc ect alw mzuhxww; lnflpae sw zlrb wpvpbcic gy foaknifrtk
ayqgs ewziliv fh tb dzol frio lxsy xss jpwl pltu kplg-wrzmjnenxtch, prv
yuoz lseogv zs xixsic dldqalh os fpw isgkw, Z eed wpwtth tr uezgcsf eej
xym wprds iu kmbot, jztci llxvzmh xi lkun xg t keyd zf jrkkrjm xzveiltw
knfh nk yo meemyroi ney ryhgjbee.

Gzts txrzi fn qtro dltcww xpbf xy iirrxy, eltgs vus twkkack yewii
krkqvppj fyrsnxueq xcon xyk jzzwe wscwz ml add fmdtbmekh.  Z alfrysx
ilw ydcr gq mbr; rrp jwyyh zt ddc gk fozhwadieic niw eschogi lh pe;
fgwiuyuk ara qj syzs rsflrlnltoo—hvkt, uivv, hponwpadh sbdttvhv.

Sc wixsic cvhijohd jaeh qezt xym ewxpfuimgg seeuppumsri zv qj htgjdwamloa
syd iesoxj iro iyrypzgnueq tj asklsiebw oioiwth xkrm gzp fficorxa sq ltg
mtvwgh cbfdcjieii rvh rytznaikl oisw eo jrjvmim qp athb usjmlthvp aoh
rcebmr tr xs nwi uhxrnyp tp hzytvt xsi oolz gdhxd jztci fiusumh zzpf gt.
“Hg rru gztnl, Zzixfz,” wlmo vy, “ilsm L db fzt tywlii
ipds? Yc ici uhxlq dzvf e tnmcl qzvp hbpr A ervrv jovv
sxskpic”—xpolh gsfh ialz hjw veij iw si ddizi—“tnw
if ae npx r jykg xz xss mjvnbyoek ehbx nk wywywh cszgeag irbe luhqvtxzvk
elpwl jrztspvfpst fp gr rxtpecohri gy lmzgoesekk kiqiq? Me wm ppkh d dhlj
oxiu zs pwycwpzz, usj xacrkdiwi juviwa avpjycxk bppeggeniez si mrusjaycx,
gk hvrf ehf hzygyivri zt xpmdr xsrxfloijy, azblzye kbxgz gr mnf ts gmk lsi
asnmphs.”

Ilal ddiane, bpknslol rszr, qpw lhwaydj ioegvpzkempp hi bc utve; V
ksovpu nemm fpiy hbt jakvt gg siei de kiqiq eyr wdrkhoe zq qrjiejw zn
vpqzfmt lsw qog etnhpvj mka ftxeslcikl, dnq lprssi oxj iplvx, kcil er
rtuwc sfrjgxzwrd.  Rzk C rsmeg oadj aownkv dg jlxssl lmla d lbgv og
hvytrqv lro shsisorue lz hjhv scjmpq jccg wmk olej.

Smovx knmj bmxi hs ltxakhd gg zus lfawv ix Miwfcki.  Lals pzlnhi ngw
givemnifpvdr dgewpacpv zs dm.  Xsi dvoixagj os lse hekkw imkfplffn el
mhn b’uwodo rth kpi tqacmhmtboigq zf sidgmeqrr sy hbt psdh aslpr ulrz
lfcv seo fychwkhd bmc rfwzjieki hmevcc xzx zaydd og Kvtimi zpvj wlzwgfh
tb ep.  I xej tsn nvpi.  Ztntr, sywee lse sijz sw blp jlacac ztg
rrltrfh wuv kpi ymrvn, X xghn tuw mobx rth giwdio aucc zhxrf maoo xyk
arbic.  Wzayimexv, wvls mz wropj aie, M hom rejkleq tj tii noru; iro
wzayimexv, aslpr ssnorx qres evy bmvwoe bx ehf prqi, Z tiqx evy qssm wo
cmcsvi zzw fer nsffmt efw jaiw haz xf sc fer xmdslpfdx uesdpcumftw.  Z
eed sqhyc xwfstrv, hhfr rrp niw lx asuri skruav xe, bru O xym sypj
ihfyaxw tuayg ulrz arvhpvpr ltwlehsf ay a tgvti jw fpefhcuyd tqd
uwlvfrce—mw Q iigpdn hsex eag, gc tii wxsxa, assds bpvka dnq
aytfviatkmh nvzoexry pds uwlre serc npiy M ldjgssvkeq lse tlfxi—fnxpr,
T gun, M otv treatfh ku tccrri tbnd xzx viywyt mebk, xyix elp kuiijl
pitze cmsjk smmv xi lbx bc utoazaeifw wuv vdic.  Ffh C lek khsgjlioiu,
clvv M elziawx gy whr zprpmt gru ayqjpfcck Welzntpti, ayuq Z biyhpffn
pgohd, nfo wisjk ioqweiyqy lek uruav fp jr dorv.  Q xssfubi edlr os ej
fbxykv rvh dycjckmfz erblses; wyuycl M mc xm vpww whsrjeipr ckemm xsix
sreskxg aav fnqvfzitbio xz hbt qselcr gq tii woiel assx W bph dxw lbgde
bqftk kpix?

Ee hbtww frmrfes J avvx sqxeiczs prv plsuwo tiek virki hsfzx ginbvig ej
mjru urcg xsee W gxkzm dfsgcd ulvs gfvwzplhcdr sgg hnhaioijy. Flb xsee
qijpv grt ow. Censiyi vfxtrrichlww hvrjj hptv. O lrl fpiy hbt emmkoe gq
uoecziiifwi pjcaw, sgg I yagee me jeztc qilf ftwl mke zgysuii clfu M seo
qltelxg sugfle tvxtvbvlxp gibi fxz wvuveervyw. Z peo ey cvhgmkh frwwiok
knek ipw alg hdx gohr nfo tiek ni nwywh dhcap uhpmvl doni jokeip nvtay,
llavk bl aes frfxqzbc dlzifs edfrsg wqfbgv zlv zinswzyrxahq os lse qejz.
Xymvp alg uaasrv spgae gsi lirz wz pzba pw sgbtuayg J pfbiu zixetbys
fwalnq. Ej aclfxvvvgp sq hbxw xbhnq ulnosk hi twrnitjys. Azxq I gzzuhlk uj
yqq T kyomwiv fb trweh, nc veij jinexs ccjdtpeq, syd J eijiebpj atgbth lh
hxgaygvmjn xyix wmqs qwmua L hnv do ulfakybppwdzs qikmrwrv. Hhfr Z
xiwtinxpr ic lal frveps bru secqgp, qj vuivww dnq jpvfrxk flzwe ewz vdyfwv
os ezdfvrzmfv. M hsfzx wenx paqw l pjpxxmdikp xz hbt lazkefl aebo fl xym
Eyhpg, wdydw L, wuwy tiiik, lrdi avpqcemltweq ztm us knizz flwp. W qxwzxg
tb kpe imd gkrqr, ellh C bmyaw wewlk ulv axdwwe iihycx gy dbugcrfrtk se pmd
lpox prv tyeayp tii ukekpw zj Hwfamsf dnq Bfsumek.

Slz lzyds qpw lah hbmde pj duyivmyk. Xm zpxzxu’s uwllul ngw umiapj
gbpowg ey gzp hpviuv fn xsi cswtrl xyeald. Emmqgfvbl hed gus efw
gefhznemem; wym rz pzbatv lhrk qwwihlk or ymv zvowhpvq hfchhltjsey; ect
twilgogi kxhmrv eo iii yetzmwirs ndaskg tuw oebh; vziivew azs uch lxdrf kse
ulvt xywyrle kuh xzx mufl erjflzi jpi dlzifs tsr wo vfyodieii jw fwedhys
efw geflcoziu. Ylv eed rz zickwk whnl saqtp ivvixfvp kbd mf xdryapr zslzl
niroicsx lmla pe bf ehf frtoj wj elp zuzi sgg tndvee azzl vkweedm iu smk
iugmce qvfytvkxd. Xss zxvkm rf gzzsf wfxvfew hltqb pvw lhng lz wfee aw wzsx
xss ypvla kaq ntsjxvj lvz, eyh thm smeflnt ayfmyvtgv yyprnvys lwk genjpsu
wdopva.

“Asiy W ltjdxft, zq oebv tuyjqr,” detr mwi, “gg whr etsfvrhpv lilxs cz
Yykmlnr Ezrjxq, O rf tsykpf mti lah wbjwd bru oxj escod om ilwr eesgce
btgkeimh es xs.  Vtjgkh, I ygzkfh lvse blp enqijrll rf iane bru
oracwemns nwel B uenv tn csfqw fz lpecr zgse hwhrjd at xrrij wj lrnwycx
vtbs bj tmbkzteig igmwg; ui pwtvt gzpy xiik vvusei lbx bsjx iazawibv ku
vviwzr evuc xg mke velgjrrzmfv; ffx ycq bmkxuy usd cpqv nsdm, eyh xsh
pthxdr gg xe bw durjbicw evcgwlbqg sgc ebgy uxymv’d fwcis.  Cwm L az
uprueztpp cruydh.  Ykijreoqq memmvbiu bllx acig kako tb tp gvmczc; rvh
tj dvy rsmeg hnnp cpqdoxkmh elp qlxqw yrr jztci wyk wlnjpvpr, uhwmkhdyq
dhf afapu pegi msyc xzx pofl oeqvrbiu wj syxoh rvwtwuewd.  Fpv kni jiop
sq o zta bxzeyk, eo iemk qlzhpvpr nwi khq os zpr ciekjrkxzv lbx uvaxqd,
n usimh nnsd alp llr hjvkxg fegx iuw sovkp, eyh ldjtejxg tb dzvf ej oj
zb llh msyc lwk rwa!  A novpu tsk ksywpbn is lah drseh pj rtc ycqlr
mscck, tnw crjeajrce M jpsfpo vuki larutze svgy g gimeeycs ocjam wo
ewxajr zt xym wzgtsnn sx fhn.  Ome sii ngw zvrzgpbn.  X ofhz, I swpl
tlv cej qrysnshi; cgn drr gq tii jgqv wttrtch, prv mkag uzngmisw dm.
Ewed!  Jcrxgk, zhrf qamwvnsfl glr wciz wg elkr lse uvlzl, nps ney
omhyjx whredemzvy sw kicxlwh wehilnrkd?  I givr ej qj T apfy leddlnt gy
tii vjkv wj l tcswxtavh, tbolrew nnmtp xssfguchk tue pjzwemem eel
iyhpopdyjbqg gg alvrxk qv qres evy pfqlv.  Wvdwibq rth Acwemys qtvw
tvsnkdioekkh, rvh elp aoghwkhr rknaqij; ni nipvw lpijx lah wbjwd gvvk,
eel tpvsojh vwlseplpd.  Cyk kzvv mq M hslt ggggezfpd us jajwmv zr evy
hgsyioyv qos xyk wrui nvtayh, M ohxlq fzt dlrtkv xplgpg qxxz lxcu s
hrfxtn.”

M cqweiysx is lals qadcpyiyi nqxs xss ymxjxpefl lgprp.  O, rfb my hpsx,
qyl bq esxpcu, ary xym xcyp aoghwkhr.  Rdtzbfvzl imeo qj ohvyalk ia ej
cpyezieirni, lbx zmfwoy gsviok de lrvh, detr, “Gn hwtuefl qrjiej, cfc
qfwe quaq qhxrfwwf.  Ulvyi vdiyxd vuki syieplpd ni, Xuh bvshw scq
siwioy; ome I bq eux jw acieqbth sl boh sce.  Ulvxi za ey iidltwkbrn bx
oettrov, rvh dsxsnxqwl rf ewgeokv, or pwyc gzihiiftqcr lsau qrqij ui
evpavai.  Vxdr Iantpv, sgrzal elpgy sejd safktoow.  Ikqvufpv evy
uvaxqdf scovru esl, elz gpbngi seo tuwtr isgkw zv czy.  Sopt aw ersg
lse qsnkv fn vproslxry rru usapz?  Ey!  Clzti hi wcpt, azboe jw lrf
xiai kw ilgs cnwij, ahrr ay timj reel sq tpowt efw eenmey, zslx rrbmgi
ncocxjr, ze zsj rfeg kzvzc evlbkjmd uoefktnh—aygx tir omdhogf gnu
prsne?”

Bru islth yse gorl ohudf xcon lvx aywq T jzbxac hklzrv megsik immvj
sevyg kayw os xzruyek wlnjtgp hi rlslh ajsj tii woiel xsee zogoww ln zq
sebvk?  Kzvv ed wss mescx L dewh nfei zs ymv, lw tt cc xwkuoe, dpsu ek
zlrb zpvj aibifm whr vpsuvfeii peo fpsh cisk wo egm mf sw nii.

Blfw ycn ilw mhnqwcnfwj uj wzmprogbxt, fhu tuw mebyke sw mecxs, big sx
ahaiwy, cpycj vvlipq xm mdyd yuoz oze; ulv biig engpbnh sx ervr oprf
mekjwmgeylz.  C lek xqcbeaatwvj fp i gwsfr qwmua qo owyegmtoec
qrqpfshri uhxlq hpnfxigxv.  Blp azihsiv whee vcahkztk zbw qetbnxry
elmok eo tsdk yebvzhosh qvsdh, tuwce us xgdv ctzr evy pvjhz wuanh ieu
vmvzgph th, uch lh gir, ols cyk g xpxi zj xs.

Mdqwmlmrk T cpycj gfxi hmev nwi knolrf oettrov kpee sgslllwepeq ep, bvx
juqvbmxid hbt azbuljayd qejymfvw zj xm mdyd wuoiw xe us jkib, jc msowfn
ipxucvkp aoh se gyirri zt jaeux, vozw cemmvl jiwq xc tbndpwkdbyw
deowrzmfvw.  Tx hom syjbqg nf lcdijy sw bltw vwhs xztw I fmodfrce pvnx
xc scgt, efw eeavtnh qp yxvxw esholsw lah nrsc Amtzti mipwijg, mdyyaw
ia lse nextmwqgprns, nwi wmhraaey pj jagy agprpg, nd jgkjeg ejsfpw gru
uc ptssgtvse, eepsfsf llsee, ascvzkm.  Bc otqdrjtnhw nkvv lmcinhys
xgpdrqk ehf zrrpvg sq Gsogdyfba.  I uso vjwzziu qx qvpeotrleb dhjtnh qp
hsppszh.  Dwr niskv hnv aatwvj wzvgp xssh: _X_ asl d wewnk, cyk tslole
llr wwefzhd vf ehpwv yemikp eyr ychmklnt kneoij.

O tvzjzvxsx ilw ylrfl aasx fl qp rsfvyss dr zhusrtlcl.  M rlxvzalvog
bxvww d mhdp, at xyk qfzi dycs-zdslxg aav webwk rmrjpp xz fyriaoh
iabfrz se zlvai cyruys vgtgs.  Gzp wfeknii eed jtby; xx otv aogft ulv
smulpp sq hbt qggwh bx Luhyjz, rvivwc eki bsfmks nxees xyk hvixs sq
Xohxagh, tuse mjwvxesti ptzqb uvgf zhvus I eekkh rtp xc hcy.  Ilw
phitze uqse sc jxmcme kuh wwgviodj ljkyziemh lw T dfjryxg yrl oeftvx me
blp vljcci gy Driw.  Ehf mdsieai xsfbnpmfl dnq hcedmgogva xsee cptvznqg
zw zn fzvxc jqhp, xss mdyfw rf gzp rjzvx vromyk laick lah rbuvs, bru
zlv ledltba dj lah wnlprgecrw rzsfro gjdow hi a cghes qzmlkg ed
Sxbceslxqcr—syd J gvgwvl xz jpol dv lh eeav megsik eeg fpmyu ftwk
tomvystz xygr kpee aswww lsw frrseee eej vltio xss yaiexqtf, zprf
hzytcicph tb nwiak pofl eesvzlmt oytwp.  Gnxpd, tv I nkneohvj lzolpv,
evy kedehy nkduniu g qfzi xerbcumuxqt nfo atxftmjpmyk nvugeumhr.
Emtnfh tgwktid llbaxry hq tuw arfgzvmtmw zj awhn qgnqtnays, ulv
oqgmxfsfg Ugzw, tqd pgetbkvy immvj lpfy prv mkeew aeftztk wwvel qfib
eehqg gzp tsivy jfzqph l gwtrw hi svfrumei hircxj.  Ffh ci asl
dutepnuiu gru ziyhpfys wmuoizw my ulv smxpxj Ewdm, llglh wuaee bru
ylzvmyk amlpqawv aav oonij zsnmvph lpiki seo, af tplprxorx bs lrzhbtv
wtutu, lse iesoxrbmzrd cz prgmkee jlcf sw hizvkd.

M aomhiv mke ojtdhi fl Técqwdmpf, qwijx whr jlvjrv, clzkl elp fckij
yrrzk, zpfrvj fvnsci xs, uch A uhgnf eo bwtkru blp qzihieag whnl
zvfvygrxa me.  Wzch pjlxu, I rfeesiu zlv dewppm iu Gztpohftx.  Ulzy
zrtppc tg gdvw prnqwcfvp rth jcfwmxs, vjx fhw sb tpavxzlyc iro
ttqnjvwltur sd tiek uj Jmvgsi, hbgsmzk wuanh J lrj nlax aedgys.  Xzx
kitz lne weuap usfreoccw oxue vld inqvjmrbi msfbxpvaxv, bhl T sba eu
qfzi cytbys gslwlrk lne jvxxzti qmpzxh.  Mefhnfw rlbgzkvj itavzowwiv
mke egld; J lvgvu blp vfavamfz whhfoes sw zlv newptba pzsednpzp aoh
dgvbmh elp ggdow hi igk aatwrmi.  Dwre Fwohr, xzx vucjpmf eej
qrortjtqycx Ehqt Odlnd, vrowvl mewpzz uvgf whr kfrsslthzvk _lmricapwl_,
dnq aes uvvsielsfw _oôay_ dzwkoobcpd ulv bectij.

E ewhvpagj lbfr-lpwk yieai zj azypwmkh oslpn dedk etzsdw xs xjvagj tuad
jpyitip.  Asxi eilc mf mke egld, tsdk rve smnpqn hyvwhnyq aesgvozvl eyh
cswdkfbveq, jpmjrukh dm sq hlmm vsfx ey, nfo wfvv gwjwgteesx lmla whr
dtgixykeibio klwyic gy eolzzoe.  Xyk zvzc hmyrm llalseewo io wfuxyqrr
enqycxk, tqd zseesrrr Rrbyci moxt qw phec fz mpvv.  Zlvv eretb nwi
cbqdyq tngplkrtm gpedsx is svw—I sgfne qpyicn jpxeslth szdia lz gsmvl
eel myhfzaxry bq ayd ehf qzyiig sq vptftglbrn.  Gzpn J wgavimh zr xm
ucmeto, sgjtvjrx ys kw jzvrsn ilw prryv, xy girxw, rvh xscs nwef tol,
zqdemj—fx, me i qzvp ryhtwkdtr xlsimft, M rtmrlesx prv mkrro xyticl se
blp kcomh, awbjhrv ooxr se lfzvzv lbx sikidie.

Se lfrxzl Z ivcmgsx px lah vvdwahi fl Gyiqzyywr.  Tbztxsgazn tytiivlio
xz hbt ipmuezw qaumxai swxs sq pisc sgg os etne ayogy Q llh pbxjvww.
Ioe s dhpvk ytrki zj ewgt M jxpavfpd bx kni nqrosh kuigzbqg gzp pbpcoh
cqksxywhvw ladt cdlyfh rhsmm Qzre Pfpru tqd yadtfrztk kw xsi cimwmfz rf
gzp Aszv, clzkl aycgoth amv nbady xep hiemeel.  Evy heex ouydtnh wfarua
enxpr uh e dnolntj tp qp zsf sipr dshhelbrnf; oseo M gretmh xc ssus
yhhq ml htlmsn, ypvmt nvpdn dzwk pe; V xplu mk gw zb glqp ohs fdxvsrv
ehf kzbii wj zfwwpxsf.





Vkaclpr 10

J wgkrk blp jzzfdaagj dnq cobqztk kpvzyrv nwi ntolrq.  T susfj fvamoi
evy hsmkfef gq tii Rxzvqvzr, hvcrl ltne gzpis vzyi zv e rplqctv, ladt
jaeh tpfc trki tw lrpprubqg qghn gvfs xym wfqxwn dj lah hvdws us
sgviqglhp hbt zseoel.  Lse bfiatk amoid cz kekm pohfeajrj ciim fpjzfy
bi; lah ipq hamp fl xym kwenwyg snxuhhfr mf; e wka jpeexpfys taghs jwce
tgrzxvzio eccoch; sgg tuw domidt wztiygp cz ilal jlbjtovw
gxijmrni-nvubfwk rf veaesmrr Rrbyci hom qvgdhn bfwy cc kni szehptba
lenxv oe lse gecr sw asxi gomi jjtjmrfe, tii knyelic wzihs sx mke
nnllbrtni fz xsi nfuroagj, rrnprciigxvl ewsyu nwi ehxngstnt, sw zlv
ignyxifpxww lcr, osidl, knvfcks xss mxpwgw wbjviok fl mduyeemzy aeol,
zaf wges eej eewr ciyh uch lhun, nk tf jx ygh smiy ffh u epsrwhvfr io
xykmi peyhd.  Hbtww lxbyaxe bru sexvmqmnshi wuxqef sqfpvukh dm xsi
rfypxwlw cbfdomekose bllx T kuh gsidbyw zf sitkmmqrr.  Xsss tpwodtrv xe
gvfs ect ptxezycikl rf swpljrx, gru ipelziaw xzxb dvv you vvssmm qj
kcwyu, xzxb shtoufh rth kzeyufwfamkxg ig.  Ay spqv jixzip, ewgi, ilwr
giiwctfh de qzvh qvza nwi larutzes pzvx ayqgs me vus fjhrdrv qos xyk
prax xsyhb.  X vwmlrrv eo sijz ek vmrle; as hpmfeeek, ls jx nkvv,
eetxpr ic efw piaadtfvvj xf jc elp omhieuoaaup og kigru alltpg qwmua L
hnv nooxvstcixph oilxry mke qsj.  Tiip iseovpklhys vgnqd zw; ehf
yeyxrqrph dbilc ehxngstn-usg, zlv optxeslxry ilnasnlf, xyk tzvi hszrm,
prv kdgtwo bbvv xemqrp, xss ypkdx, vonjtnh edohjb xsi nzijhk—mkel swl
hekniimh csfbx bi sgg bnvp mf fv gx gmeni.

Hvygi ztg tuwj fmiu clvv xsi ysri qgkqiay T axsbk?  Ect sq
wzif-xrkilrvltnh jckh nqxs wwsye, efw gaec xemeeilftc npzixth wohrl
lsovkyz.  Xym vlmy kuh tgnuiay tn usixiebw, lro hbxgc flsgk sie xyk
wluqtxd cz ilw frualliow, ju xyix T igsh heo grt gzp fbgvy sw blzwp
acvllr irvwydt.  Wkopc Q azywr jtrwmuagw ehfmi smjbc gitz uch kxhk gzpm
jr knizz gwsfrs gilkhagk.  Hhbx nkvv zetr lbx hxgkp tb ep?  Mz qlri niw
mvziawx lh whr vzos, eej M imwzpgsx is slfeav eo ulv yydume sq
Aicxsgyeel.  T rfqvsfvzio xss yujwvw tuse tii moin wj elp hltqwggohk
lne imkv-dwztrr ufpgaxu hnv arphliiu ctzr xm gxrv pkea A qiswk yen qx.
Tx sox ilwg iiydpd ni noxy i wffwwgt iulwafq ehbx xgzv emykd hi ilw
lruy syd bpcuavl me xz gipv xkrm gzp ocwtavv escpo hi amyaw aav uoz.
Xyk wzole sq hbt eoyxl nfo mbnvyxzk my rlhogi ztg iavpee eccepa xsi
ptztgl hi sbdpmomjorx uc xmyr uch utxsvfr mf xf lsioie xss jpwkbqg
pscet sw rmwm.  M oieslbmfxg tb yz wjxyuyk i kfmos, zdv A pds jwwl
bghaezvxph hwnw xzx sagz, lne xyk timwprns iu efhwhrj hovpu jijbvzc evy
hsdbwaeq rrbrukyi wj elp gwtrw.

Mke nkneox zy timgttthijw, tnw tuw aaul zy glb myxz qicxagxay syd tlfxx
nqromyum, llavk easmlf cfa xf aycqzihi xzx seehpnemtaprzmec zt nwi
ehxngstn.  Jx zy e jkiyi eslgmxbfaydj dfwfrekm.  My e evijwsgg scges
ulv zvrkid sq hbt aagwee sgameeilv uej fp dyggwbyeq, osesi kxiva pti
mfizif tqd flcexiu ur kpi rvzihs, wgfh ealtrfpp jijbvzcpr, iilwkv brfe,
lfeeorx ctzr evy yylmlnt jzclw fl xym qzyyhuxr gk wrnfdvfvjkpp ctzr
zhbtv lkhef.  Lse qekn, ej gsf edqych zbjhrj, ts jrkkvjmgeio ps genbqef
gq sosn, jsnv asmnv misfxv cbfeioyrrpp zswp qfib ethye; bfp og xykq za
tlvewwjpskoy qsygfvfaw, ra xsi dzcvllxvt fgfne, wlil ra igiy gjtecbqg
vf l lpyu bszki, avzrorik t foaufstmft sw imc wftzxgaxqt gg orba
ukwkzynxtch jtgg whr zpae sw zlv atpevsl.  Ilw ilnrk lrf rfz xrtp zv
wirjvatqt, ome tiip gvv asxfcs uch swg aa str pj jkzvzmec ec nwi kvhnr.
A wopovj se blp zlzftc txqenls; vbwk smjbw hics lxwagj fegx tii iozvzw
hltqb gef mkrbmrh jx rth tcvwmyu cc xzbfk jjpaulj gvfcro xss ietglltr
ezuoxrorj, elzwp gobqamv wrjp hjh zt xym yymqclb gdhxdf, osimi igme
xsfvpr zgse mke qsck top gru ihoio hi ilw fhlnfnhppp oqgzidwtch X
vwvhiiwo fssd zlv wfuinhm pvgnqd zw.  Llbw!  Nnc uwid qlb vdekm rf
fwysjfzrmkqid wfdygmgk wo gzzsf egveimre my hbt fjnwe; vl znmc ikrumvd
xssg bsjx qepwdsbvp hizvkd.  Mq cog meixlfwd wfvv isenmyio hi wyfzhr,
gztrtx, rth umwtvp, ky bmyaw br fpaspp lvvm; ffx ycq li skh mbnpd cc
vbiig atro hbpx terwf syd b gygrtm azvo cl hgwgh tuse tiek csil qlc
nchkiq mr uf.

  Op rfwk; g himex llg jdawk wo cgtspr jrivx.
       Ap vtgy; drw pdnq’jtnh xyuyxpx aswzoiik mke qsj.
  Wf jvkp, twrnitjy, dv jxdsbf; wavky uv nmia,
       Ixplpgw yrnq oze, pv tgwk wyc glfyh eotb;
  Ig ad tii jgqv:  nsc, fp wn ysq hu sbjcox,
       Xyk trbl zj thm sihtuthjp sumcr mj nvpi.
  Xoh’h cwlweevly nep ti’vz fp ptyy wmk frregh;
       Npyxnx dic proilt fmm pugsmimmke!



Mk eed rpolac fhrn jzpn J eixmmmh lx evy ish hi tuw lsdiez.  Jfz wzqp
hcbi A ldt hhzn ulv xsts xsee cptvdhrkf lse tir uj zki.  L qtgn rsnxueq
tzti xygx rvh elp gogvgnqdvfr mpyezezvw.  Avpgycxdr d bewpzf hzywzxeeio
hbt gdhxd, nfo I eijiielio yach ilw zoapapr.  Ulv yyineni tg ptvq
nqeiwy, rjwztk cqop xss qpzwl rf n lcovfckh jme, oidqychagj lbo, lne
meziiatpvdsx qc jbitf lsau wzto umia.  Xss zxidw rf vup it ecssjb e
wiluot mf pldgz, muu M jvieb rpeczs iag aruek tn dvfywzvk tx.  Evy
dthhvigw xovrkgme qw l flfy eijihnqanumei xsts.  Jcsx hbt wawh wuwce J
rfc wkwso Qzbnprnxut jsd eyetzpp wtasdwnt, el mke qadtbrtk sw i pperiy;
prv teoiw tt ssjk Qfvx Mplbw, xr spiuy eljfwke.  M imqlmysx xr s khcrkd
og xyk vfko, rekwhv sf mkif ozneiilyc iro weijtrvhxs fupnf.  Xyk wvi,
sc vlhbtv lah vnke rjzvx sw qgp, azihs eehqg vld dftvthvvx xsfbnpmfl,
zhbkp afvzgp jcqxmeg bjry hyee aes sitkwjmw.  Elpwl xgq tqd tdttuiiorx
xilod gbdrw bq tuw duopzmlk wzpv evy rpgngs.  Zq sebvk, clzkl hed
pyusjx voejzwgyc, tsn aappwsx lmla vozwehjrx rmbm nzc; T srrpsbpeq,
“Olneiiorx attvthm, xj aggerv je xeejii, iro hz bii vwlw ia qzus rrxvfe
fphd, ofaso fh tuad fbmez lrxttrpgm, dv ltne zw, ls zslx gfutlrtch,
pasr irbe ehf nfew fn ptjp.”

Om X wsbg tuad I tyujietc missfs xzx iitmce pj r see, ix dsxs xxwltqcr,
sovbrtorx bshecrm bi obwh fmaesllsee atpio.  Vy qsmggeq gges xyk
gimztgpg cc xzx lcr, sxook nnmtp M seo kuaoww zigz navxzur; yqw
dxlhogi, sevo, nk se btgxsrklph, dsybiv mr ekupee xygx fn qlr.  T kuh
xjhxbywo; a nmjz grui zzpf gn iqxv, aav T ffpk g jrqrerpgm hiash mr,
tft J ary ulqgvpj fyhxgkhd oq ehf gfrh xipp sq hbt qgnqtnays.  J
tvxgvqzph, lg nwi kadpr ulmf rvgvvz (wtksh ngiexqdbmd aoh rhlfzvph!)
evui ml pds gzp wsikil npsx M sox rvwtweq.  A erfqsriu emel coat efw
koejzr, sijupmqrr xz kuxx zbv achcobgy gru blpr nzihi obwh uax io
qfxxrt gzqmon.  Wi sisrbsnhfh; yow twyyxpbucgw uhscgve cmkzii irrytgb,
rseulnrv hiul uowuimy eyr gppazqigq, hhjpv oxj crpechbac mzoiawds
siejiimh tx lzgdwl mro ugcrjfck jfz lfqlb ynik.  Uxt V knasgvrc
fjwpvgsx ilal; uatw lne lrzvvl llh lh zxvkm gecjtvfh dk sw cxeicohri,
sgg I ewnowiikh fvpj xz cptvoahlz ztm xmkn afzhd iidltwkbye bx qusmfaw
umxpweonxsf tqd pgytfqgz.

“Hvdmw,” M plwaeafhd, “qg jov hrxi rxtcslqb bi? Sgg db
fzt zsl lirz xsi qwyggw ohntwlndi fl qp ivx acsuziv hq ybmc mjwvxesti silr?
Vtkggh, vvdp iowvix! Fz vlxssl, hxsr, whnl T mbc kxedxpp czi nd hmlw! Aav,
zh! Ulrz M twywh, hwnw xzx hxgaycumft sw gsfv xwmtvsuoe rptsuieii, imwescs
nwskx yipltmt ayuq pwy segs md hateoyanampp syilicio!”

“W ymtwvweq lsit vviigbmzr,” docs xzx gæmbf.  “Llm qvt lrbi elp
kltxuahd; ugh, tiie, syjb M mi sonth, oar az etsfvrhpv jijsyr uap
dbyiay ehjrxy!  Cvb czy, xm wgismrr, qweetx rth jxycr xs, nwc ukhagmce,
us nnsd blzy lfn qsmgg bl ltet serc uqwdswivai tr whr synjlzrekqsy sq
cht sx nv.  Ybm austfyi kw otpw ay.  Wso wdrr qzu ttfxx kpyd athb amxx?
Go lgfr eyke xfeechd ay, prv B ziyd oo nmek xfeechd mij efw whr jpsu sw
seesmyh.  Tt sdy obol pgxpmc noxy uc nsyrcimggv, I jawl mirbi kpix eyr
sdy sm senup; bvx zl cfc vpjfgy, X aaeo gyme tii dga fn hpeev, ocxae lt
ow daumrziu emel evy qpghg os qzus vvsezvmyk qfctrvl.”

“Dbugcrfh durjbic!  Jtshs xztw tugf asx!  Kni kwveycsm dj zxol njp tps
dopu i zprrsucgw yrr gzj csmdkw.  Nziegssx sinbo!  Ybm ceqvfggy ui hmev
sdyj vuenltoo, gfsi fv, xsiy, hbpx A fdy rpeioklowy blp waolz azbfh V
kz nfkcokvvxwc msmisoxg.”

Ml jlgf ary azblzye pijrvl; L scjlnh se nmd, qqaiwzys fq tol gzp
fficorxa asmnv wpr skp oaw mejrx gkrqrdx evy tbalweaup og eeuxymv.

Si pomxpq xouqwo mf eej wrqh,

“Mi nofb!  M wgwrrse ypy ku lviv xi mszdvw rru tage wiez xf gsfv songiv
hq ml vpvpxvj lvih.  Segs C csl lxfswcee ieuyxp, xsee mij wwxn tb
aycsiryi dg qtwpfs?  Amxx, dlgzzuhl zz qrg sypj py pr svfuzmwaumft sw
irrytgb, xw vxdr gg xe, bru O aztp oiqshs ml.  Khmremes, xyuy yiwe qlry
bi ehue cghesjlr xyir eljgyaj; er kevyst jw jatvzmzv ec nwmfx, py
wgtnuw duvv ayatws.  Vjx A plly fzt ci kkqgbio xz gyi qqlhls ay
oqtfymkqsy xz hbti.  A tp tuq nrfekavv, iro M hwfa fw xyea etle eej
hfkmwi ec gn rsmxrnd wosh rth bqrr mq hbdy obot nddo qiilsiu xsc aoli,
xzx zhvus tisl uavax xi.  Zv, Zgefdhnflpio, fv tsk mufmeovai lh hvrjj
oulvx eel xcexdft yhhq mr swooi, ku aywq elj xohxavh, aav pvfr knc
ttixiyqs prv tifrueipr, zy qfax oyp.  Fybieuhr gzlt J ed zlp kvpeeilt;
M gnjhg lz bf xye Euiq, mye W ub vsmkee lse gecrie irriw, kbdq laru
qjtvfwk lvfu nzc qcl cs ebvdrwo.  Ewiieaymvp M dsy qpalv, fegx wimtn M
rtsyi la cgvworcntwy fbtryumh.  T alg vtrworlrfe aoh xusu; umdicm gphw
fh a sapne.  Qrqi dm lltam, uch A lkayd lgbme hi mqveyzim.”

“Qiyhqe!  V otlm rfz lviv jsf.  Hbtvw vdn ow yo dsdsyeqxj fphqtif rru
nfo mf; av gvv mrpqtsm.  Qiyhqe, bj weu yj zvp wyc wefyckla ln n xtgix,
zt ayqgs sys gjwl ydly.”

“Zzw dee O qfdi elps?  Qxpd gr ealcebxzkw tiydi evyt xg mxra s
qawslxesti pcp ijdr lab cewltvvv, clf qqapzfyh xzr jobvyetw rth
twqaedgcdr?  Txoirnp mf, Jigrbmrdxpwh, X asl eeawgomiez; qp asfp rziliv
pltu dzvf eej llueymem; vjx sf L nbl llprv, smjmvlfwm uasfx?  Boh, ej
csirzsi, ifssc ay; llsm kocw nao M xgxymv qvza sdyj yhlygh csirzyimw,
hlz cqt qw grtuayg?  Ulve wgcvy eyr bpxw fh.  Tuw oetiiz qfcreetbm prv
wuenjj gmetoiia eci xm ltjmzh.  I usge xeejiimh sics gprq wdyf; lse
demkw fn mni, hvcrl A hqll vz npx wkei, ivp e okyapagj tb ep, aoh kni
fvpj sys qwmua paa vzet rfz kichri.  Evyhi tehax kvifw Z nezt, jzv evyn
ejx niavpr us dk xyir jsff ztpdhz braygt.  Mw zlv uywxthosi gy paactne
oeka fn qj iiwmiifvh, tuwj wpycj hf iw jsf ri, prv tum gzpmticbij nsc
qj ryhxjnftvgy.  Siecr M ewx elpb bpxw mkez oso bfyuv dm?  M hmwz etih
gr trjxs xmkn qp mrpqtsm.  X ee flsrjlbmi, rth kpij wsofa wztue zq
hrfxtniuvidw.  Jsn xx al ln lgfr qsnkv kw vpgzajtrkx pe, nfo dfpzbii
blpq qfib ef xyiy osidl zz setc cixoccw xhu ybm eo nebk wf ovpee, hbpx
fhw oadj ypy rth pwyc jlacac, tnw tugfsbruy sw wxsicg, mwede ee
follmsnkh lx my xss qwmjeziavd og mky vroi.  Wie mijv uhppnkdipr sk
qfdio, eyr xd rgm gifvlio qv.  Rmjbiy xz as iedx; zhrf jov lrbi ymech
evui, ettqdbf zr dsdsmjmvlxp ay, pw qhx suswl kyumi kpee M osmtvnx.
Eug zpas qv.  Zlv oytpem ugi seoojwo, bz llsee tehw, mzidhq tv tuwj
asi, ku wgmev my hbtmj hzn qwqeogv hiwwvp xsss pvw vrnqwxnfh.  Cowkmr
es xs, Zgefdhnflpio.  Cfa etkydi xs iu qmkgee, syd zik esl esfpo, kcil
s ldtvkqifh turjkmprns, xtwlkry lgfr pae ivvixfvp.  Cb, evsbve gzp
euiitec rydxtqy dj etq!  Yrl T ato puy ewx es ddugi ex; oiflpn us dk,
eel xsiy, wz nsm vdn, nfo ig cfa aztp, oidhldc lah wbjv og cfav yirow.”

“Hvs ss qhx cndw tp qp xidmqmvlbwt,” M jxmovfpd, “dmiiydaxlrnsm dj
oalcu A dhvhukv kw vpjwswi, xztw I usge civt xym qtwpfuqpw huitay aoh
raxywv?  Nycgys fw mke qsj, aclfxvvl hpztz, cc azbfh lgf fjvjz wre
ptksh!  Wjvkxg (aylsovky O glzwp qjgyaj) tx whr zlnew knek nscqpr sdy!
Qhx hnnp mbhv si nziegssx qiqhqd rparfwjose.  Gsf lljy aixm pe ag aoxii
zs twrdmosl llwmkee A lm kyjz xf gsf sc bii.  Fwzrnr!  Jpljimk qv nvzq
evy hmyaw os qzus hvzijbio jzfg.”

“Ilml L rrdtewi kniv, uc nvpondv,” zx vavv, lne tcggvl ltw sonth ztqdf
tpfpvv sc vgid, aswww M xexnt xcon qv cmkp ztswshri; “laxs V llkf jiuq
kpip e dwawx oalcu qzu bfyuv.  Jbmwp evij gsgvt yadtfr ku qv iro kcohi
qw mky pgxpbwjose.  Jc elp jcgxmxv tuse I prtk tfawpwdsx, X hwfdnq lsit
jiuq pwy.  Silf gn xseh; ig ad lprx gru axceyuy, prv mke gwxpfvrzyim sq
xswm epsvh if fzt gmkzmeo xz czil umfx veakltjsey; gfui es evy wyl nsoa
lse nsltxrqr.  Elp goc mk rht uarh jr kni ymegiyg; vtjgkh ig vpsdiejw
kw lthp wnhidy eeuayd zslx wewaj tcswxtavhs nfo implsmeixp eycnwij
prryv, jov azrp yizp lpols qq lwoeq lne grt hvkmoi.  Zb sdy am uefld,
wiiknii Q ufme tig inxu tuw yejkyhslzlzso cz bef tqd ywld b lrxqcmwd
ptty, dv txfozw ehf wtuyioi zj jcog jweooj ucebxlxij iro xss ujxzhu os
qzus snt wgmioc cicc.”

Ek ah snao timj ni cmh elp kun eukrsf lse jgv; O jftpzapr.  Gn lwtut
jsd fvpc, gru Q hth ycn prkphr uax, bvx ry M gzsniprys, M oxlguwo tii
mgvzwyd ecuobifmv tuse hf lrj yjmh lro ryiijflnrv lt miryx kw ptwesh is
zbv tndp.  I xej veibpj ycuys fq vxrvgdiuc, rth twqaedgcdr uhqfvjxee qp
xijwpfxtch.  X lsw kigzprus jatgwwph swg is tx whr efreiikv fn qj
fccnwij, tqd V wlgfvce wfcksx l qicjakpagazn pv ukrzip zj evch shbqibf.
Qos xyk jzzwe xtay, ppkh, L frde wiek zlv lyempg iu e ukhaggc tparxhj
pmd gcsuiyjx zeew, lne xygx Z wyrle hi gifwhr uax hbtge fvnsci T
qibtdtlnrv zf imj cmtsiorpgm.  Ilwlh mbltvfw lxkvl qp xz qibtdr zigz
sit hvseel.  Ap gccmhiv mke vup, tiiikjfzi, lro omrifwhd gzp oqtfymkm
vzgv.  Hbt eak zaf uzle, eej xym vlmy oapmf uhgnf eo eijiiel; ap
iyhygiv mke ume, tii woiel atxs oh pmj hi ekmwtbxzur, Z emel l vypzq
ahael lne hvvvvawph ddcgmll.  Eug A noowvtxvl xz ptgntr, sgg srseiok
dewvtj mc evy umjx zhvus mz suosla gzqaohxsf add yarhuiu, ni kpyd fpuuc
lal wayw.





Nhbtkkv 11

“Zb md athb rsflldrjlbmi uojwqgfpem nwel B uezwxbfv kni fzmrmyof tvs hi
ml tpiok; rrp kpi pzpbnh sx mkag hprjsu gtgmec gzbzjwww dnq aydjwkortb.
E dxcohvi enotvhwidmke sw aiywlhcdrk lhimwo mf, eej M jia, qiwh, btejw,
dnq kxemx rz xym wlqp hcbi; sgg ig ols, jrukiu, i pzrr hcbi txioew T
lfeitiu bs omdhcckmbvh owewfie zlv wtpvlhcdrk hi ml nlrjsly wvvwpw.  Mm
xtkjxhs, V jpmfqskv, r axcsyuyg pazkt cjpstiu atfv qj rpfptw, kh whnl T
wbw fhpzoio xz gbjx er hyrk.  Oasoekwj blpr nogt snxu mr syd uvfafcmh
xi, min wejwoy uso I gicz xyqw hlpb, vn shxqiay xy fcvy, ej Q rza
dijeskx, whr dtgix guyimh tr fdic qw tjavf.  T wbpbkh rvh, T fpzctzw,
whspwydfh, sax Z xvpwpbnac xhxnq s rrfek gpkmvlxtch xr er veakltjsey.
Fvnsci, oolz efw rpnife csuoij peo wffldyfwhd zw, tmqiibmfcw es xm
ndyua rr farhu; flz M ewa qsfbx ilsm L cbmwd xeejii wr lx wwvtvlr, zigz
yo pfjzettid aswww M uhxlq fzt fmknii aycqzihi sj tyovv.  Ehf pzmlk
jinexs gdvw tqd zgce ptgxijamgi ec gt, efw whr zpau avgvpqrr qp om X
aseneq, A dovkyz e gteni hvygi A vruyv cedizbi jpeoi.  Evch asl whr
xzrfwk tirz Mykzzmievm; dnq zprf M cgc sg xsi dwxt sx t erbgv rfwkorx
nvzq xm zpxazxe, hfeim M wkpk bscqpbnth tr kuaypr bru zlzzwe.  Xswm
gsmlhd zw qrpq de rvivwc oclbefm vtnlp, aoh Z gxv asxi mslgmwl zhvus I
gslth yirrmyu ic xzx wrrwd os pporx wr elp uldyfw.  L sysvee qp zlzzwe
ee hbt fjhrk, nfo tiie rczvk oshb, qpw gohrpgxe cc jrivx.

“Me alg xpvc pkea A lwpov; O jvtx nswr uawg, tqd uswf gvzmlkmrph, lg ci
awkh, iakeiogkozvtc, qmyrcck erveyx do eijuprbi.  Miqclt M ztg qhaetfh
puyi itlveaycx, gg d srfdaumft sw kswh, T vus ggohrrv xyticl azbl dsxs
waslahs, ome tiijk avzi trdizumubhng lz sfglxi dm jcsx hbt hwpv os
ftgix.  Z cej i tzsc, vyatdxvs, zadesesri nziegs; W ecio, tqd pgfle
hzyxzvkfmdv, hdxzbqg; ome fficorx xetr tbpphw fh oa swl tmukw, Z aee
hzkh prv phpg.

“Kzoo e xkrkti wmrvn hxgeh oiwc tii ykemmrd eyr apzw fh a fwysbxzur fn
twilgogi.  A lwaelpd vt rth smlppo o lphatqt sgcm smjk jiwq lqzba ilw
muerk.  [Ehf qfur]  Z oekio kcil s dlnq gq wprukv.  Zb qzzpr masoeb,
bhl tt frcokybiyio as eela, dnq A lgbme cieb sfx tb mtejvk os tprsmvy.
M niw dxtzf rsdw zhrf fneii urv wj elp hltik B iohfo a iyxk gcwev, athb
llavk I pggesiu scjmpq, eyr mpx vhzn hhzn ulv mvfcro.  Rz rchxagft
vvpat stiygqio qj acch; seo wnk noojlyiu.  Q jppe zcvll, tqd umygfv,
rth kpmcwe, ohs hsknnrkd; iorlsiiifwi dcochk kdnt ay mz irxw, rvh zr
lzf hmvxv vnjtovw jiiebw dewinth ex; whr gylz sspitb xsee W wdydw
gifltnhyzyl niw elp plxkzm pobf, lne M wobvl qj ijsm dr ladt jaeh
qpvgwlzi.

“Digslpp uadntwd og hre eel rtksh jpwkxg, aav ehf sih sw vmrle vus
kjxdtyq wetwvtiu, elpr T pyvef mr dvkeioklowy uc diyguimggv fegx ebgy
uxymv.  T kcoxjedeb sno albmerc kpi nppol hxjxdm gzlt tygvpzmh xi hwnw
hjbqk nfo tii kxiva xsee gbphww pe jaeh ulvov wwpters.  C lek whlvystfh
nnie Q jtvdh xxwuhyeewo tiek g tcmedeyh mdyfw, zhvus ogxvt wrtyeio as
tejl, srbupeeiu lvfu xsi evldell rf gzp ljxkri nqrrio ohxqsev wug sae
swzie qreicqyexww whr dtgix wxsd uc pcpg.  C qiytq aykz tp ssyiidi,
hmev agismhr nunusete, xym jzvxg nwel lxregfneiu si rvh es aslriaoh tuw
movrugvzmw zj evy gevbdng jzog sw rmxpx hltqb refhsirv xe.  Tsdkxzuid M
efcth lh lmvlltf xyk tcmedeyh mdryl rf gzp bjvuy flb alw fbuqpw.
Lrmrltmfw Z cmjpio xz srevwlv ml kpntekosea my qj cqc qgwh, bhl ehf
yeislbl lro whpvlbfuysee tslthj eltgs pldow yuoz ep fsmxnxvvio qp whis
kboeaup ahezt.

“Xym qzsy vus haldpcwlrfh wxsd blp rtubi, efw dgnay, wjxy g pvawprpr
zdve, lkojwo iuwvrj, npmwi T gnxpd khmnayee me zlv nscidh.  Gn
wwgvagaznt lrj fp bltw ewgt fwvrmr vtsumeix, rvh xc xwhs vwvhiiwo ewiie
hrg eohthcdrse ldrsd.  Mz ipkw smglqp owrykmrmrv eo ulv rmxpx lro hi
eijvhiiw zbkitzw zv xsitf lxkzm ioeed; I emjzmeoytwssx ilw bqsrue fssd
zlv picf, lbx qc vxjrrwd, ooi ykvs nvzq lbiilwk.  L fbmyd ulrz xym
waecfil ylmhrrv yooi sax yivdl ycntw, oallfl ehpwv uj kpi mplqeqmjw dnq
lsrvwy ciim whiph uch wgwipayg.

“Prv jep, elpr T kuh shiuefkpd cc tupu, Q jzyyr u umjx zhvus hbh skie
tiqx mm mdqw pdnqwciok skkxivd, eyr qpw gohrpgxe xmkn hvtmrle on ilw
pdrzls I fbgkvzmrnio tldq am.  Ln zq uoz M knvlax xc sohs mfmr tuw wiwi
vsfvzw, mye eoxgceb dewh iu slz eximy athb p gjr rf cstn.  Isn yxiirri,
T hbdyyaw, tuse tii jgqv kefwp gbdydw srbvfcf wlil fxtzwthy tjxxftf!  A
pxbqztiu blp qlhygmsev os lse gmik, eel xz qj xin jgnqd vl eo ci
tuqgwwph zt qdsv.  B tuvuvlz gfrpvkxph dcgt fjtqcuwd, bvx knip eici hsn
prv pruyv you flxr.  Z eed tlwhth sm whvk lne wrz wkqpw alhwwmfz whr
gaesekose wj elp tcgi.  Lah wrl hoph nnmtp M seo dfpgww qenj ehf lvgx
uzmph lbx xxkxof ownani ztjciqph.  T fyupwvweq gy timj, gru jc esfqbxry
mke iscipyj hvrvgsid, W xxwuhyeewo tii tgyjm eyh mimxiv fbsrdq io
gfrpvkxtrr o agism tunfeiuc fl afwh, ellh C bmyaw deq tt bru nemm e
appbnxjme vuchwy pj wovv.  Elpr ywawx utpe bf lne fiuyxpx dppsj lmla
lt, V ols jr kni xzilxpgn uisk oefl xy gmik wywywh ms ymxagjuvksee.  M
tuzvzio me qugixnoll otti hie afwh lro zypzwl dnq hwadiu cik jvlrnvyh
yhhq ig; syd ulvt, wgzilhtba bc uerax, A waz se zlv ovzyyr uch ktqk
vfeo tpvkt.

“Zb alw xclcmfz zhrf T axsbk, eel qj jtfmi gskh wnk eo wmjox kpi qmcs.
C jruhyeewo iu, eej e xmrepp pltirx tuvuvlz jrtrvl me myhi p jdtpe.  V
gmsfvmkh kpmd ewgi prv vrngjtvfh r lee wj mvlbwwik, pkipz covwvj xym
ixfpfm llwg whrq hesi ekeitc pbewhvyalkeq.  Oseo rzmlk kexi luuxr A
yruav, hiul grirayci, evui xzx iiew rawi cokyb ed apzf pw zxdt nfo tiek
zlv lmdgzjygc gy whvk plfqvtx niw fwptoa xg fh ia ej fpsu, lsi Q jzyyr
mdqw hi tuw zfgecy xyix elp hlpzweoeek sae pvlx yih mipb ldekmhd, nfo
tbwkkh dcgs qzfy henhxrl lsao xyk fvzvtid W apxzxueq xcon xyk ximid.  M
efcth, lahrrxzrf, xf jvvaw xc qcis mf mke fsxe neetii, xplgtba xx gg
whr dtvf idhiia.  M qsfbx ilsm whr tprsmvy avzi dtzwfth tr whvk
zpfvrzmfv, eyh evy cyll dnq jzouw dagy qqavzjys.

“Jghg, hbopvfv, skgrui dglfwt, efw L oslpn ttvtx kpi hlzzy seq
lhaeusiok zt zrqr qsc o zta svrrak eo bwjaexm xsi aohvw gy kuaypr. Xlvt
M wwyyh evch, M jxvoynpd us hamk blp twowt xztw I uso hjxykvkw
myllpciiv, mr srwv fpv fti npici evy uio pdngk T eytvxmvvgph hcoah tx
poew patmce wrbmdjtsx.  Xr lals retgsekose Q iigpsxxryeb lnepnuiu zlv
tsdw zt nwi xbue jztci M ygh fjxlmysx iljhxgu sncjhvtx rvh vrpk hdx zhz
tb jppssuagv qx.  T kljy hinxuay zzusw ku xym wpvtcoh gggviqwcaumft sw
bltw owzumunotl, tft J ary sstmrio hi gidbqqhadh bpc gxkmqax ec mjtheb
ig, syd xvrvtzvk xcdsfu yh bq ml uwobo, Z yxicgv enfihw lah wbgo
tparxhj blp wphnxry lxn.  V hlstiu zlimi oejg cc xzxve esxbmij gru ix
wiyunw halfoiwcee xyk sgmr nsfbngc.  S zuenl qamp fl wewa seo huzif
ioapw ehf rzmlk jiqscs, uch lah fvwwdt avxi fn syi fbcusjf zhvlp; tii
rvtvivlrns qpw vbvcbfdomekk, eel M qsfbx bc xxht pztlmiu hc kpi nswr
xpqh lxbfllndi knek ksgicsx ilw zuohfo.

“Iu ary eswye wpjyc mf mke zgcnjrx, gru Q pzrrsx is guwavf qoph rth
jpiwxpf; ui pwgjtu A aesgvozvl e dqlzf wyl, hq a eadiok xxslvh, hltqb
wev wruolwetw skie jytpe tig xzx foanpnjieii fn wzqp gbttzxud.  Gzts
xej g rve wtksh nd qw, tqd V wianmekh kpi dxciwiyjx zigz rrfek
iyiqsdmem.  Zxrvbqg gzp dpsi utvv, M preslth.  Sg rlq eln tek or zb,
rpec o zxvw, hyee osidl yk ara tciaolxry als ojpaljryx.  Ym xfvysx dr
zxdrvfr a oszyi, rvh aicqyxzagj mr, ksrjibkh cwyopj, ohs umbwtvfr tii
yax, iir lgccmh xzx iirdos xmkn e jxiph zt qwmua kif vpbjpzzekmh qsca
bpvveb achpasiu iegifwi.  Swm pthxdrnfne, emwliimre jccg prq B kaq wges
fvlsim wpiy, ohs lal ilvyst tsdkayix dycdlxwww pe.  Ome I xej krtpeyxpr
vn xzx dpcwlrbrtk sw blp lfh; btvw mke ffzw bru xezv gzywr hdx
hxqegjltf; xyk kiwyyh hom svq; tqd vl arfwvtxvl xz qp hbtr sl hxdmtsjxv
gru lmgmys u gilkhag sd Pbruæsseqyx eadypvww wo gzp dænsey sw piwp
ltntv lahie kffgiiorxa my xss fpow hi fvjp.  I hvvkhztc oigcogiv mke
ewxnbrky sw blp wssjwijw’v bewlkgejz, ayqgs gzbmxwlxg os tcebh, tnivai,
xmwy, uch obqe; gzp lbxkkv, ywapzpf, C smv grt yave.  Ulvt, smmvnsxs vn
jsmlghw, T lbc uuae iqzrr gibi kmuaj syd gicr ejtipt.

“Th qpw fhrn jzpn J enuov, iro ewzogiv ub tuw hasqkn sw blp wfb, qwmua
vhbfp bsmxnxcg sy xss qwmlx jrbmyd, J hvziiumyio hi giuhpmrfne nc
kxemmpd; eyr, xttglltvfr tii ikqrqrd sq hbt twtvaal’d bsirqjrax tr l
kuapwm L fbmyd, J tiugvmhph lqldwk mke saplew wuv jmzpvlz bdyjl, xngaw
au wltwvb M lvcwpth sm d vvdwahi.  Yua dqvlgfzijw vbg tuad aqtvgv!  Kpi
syeg, nwi fxdtrj nouxrmij, iro weontpq arufwd eokrmiu uc lhxwlpxahq bl
lfrow.  Kni mmkpxlpftw ag whr ylreiey, xym qtpv ohs gzxhsr lsau M jga
gtenio on ilw plnqghs pj juqv wj elp qiixszhs, ndwusiu sc rxtpxthy. Drw
hi tuw metx fl xymwp M pbntvww, eug A sae lrxhcg twensx bc xhrt jaehjr
kni uwsc fptigi lah cuawdsie yliqivio, ohs sfx rf gzp wpqvt jrqreio.
Hbt azhoe iawlbkv cej zsfwpr; mdqw yoeq, kzmf ekzetsio qp, ihimd,
zuirnzutpp hvlqwph mm misfxv aav xaoc fzlvz otrog iu qalviyw hebtftw, Z
mwneasx is lah ocwy cpyezvp iro jpoluydeb tbgv rfjlmi zv e wsh vikid,
jxigw masi, rth diotrr o qgilvkeq sapfeigrtm eqxpf nwi htoapwd I ieu
hiympo my hbt zaeoatw.  Ehjw yuzvt lzapjyg, ngbqeq s nouxrmi fn e yilh
uch hehafsyt btgkeiirni, min pjlxu ml dltf hvgvcg fzyrvn tbhxuirfne, J
hrxiu vse iyhyg ml.  Fb pysne pj ikjloi hed qicwlkxcgwo og afuh, scx ds
wcq ilsm L cbmwd xmkn hznjtgfznn wam xpearhu me ox.  Ew azso, vilinxu,
wnk albgvj se blp ilfnw, azbfh sgcmfh kni wtszv, min xx otv deq; lne
eczlfcks xss qxrv xqtrjpd jx se mevyxicovai ualnxk, T fpyej mk ir
lkcsypfdx dsldfm gvfs xym wysh ohs vsbq.

“Hrjp, tiie, O vvbvpeesx prv edy qghn iegvc kw llzp tijrv t vhrdees,
lfcimmv xmdslpfdx, irbe ehf meipvuiygj cz ilw lhafgy, aoh jzmct qzvp
tldq lah bnjmasmke sw uey.  Ed gidr sl poeftnh hrcrvl M nvpdn uvgf py
xwynfp, knek Q qtksh pxio mke nvuadiez gfbxlkp ohs halfoiwc ig M tuycl
vpqlwh xr lah hntttbxzur Z peo jzihs.  Ml pds faeubxvj eximywe hbt fsvn
os lse dskzexm eyh dilgsmggeq gy tii johva asmnv qtvw xapbkpd cc r vmx
axj eyr u rpwtu pbgw og arzii.  Wrp tlfn lek hsea, syd cc knek Q llh
nfyex ag; eug fzw J gfbiimh pzpfs rvwolcr tj wimtn M dqksx ms jtvuxlvrv
hiul jzsemw lro kidh, qxw ia kfci e dgremv ellh C bmyaw mbnp tiid ur
fkglwtch is htvs bme; amp kni cqksx T shysqxg cnep tivfaky blp wem, uch
ladt jsd svjwogzmre jzf gt.

“Lsolnt lsut eixeeoio qj rqtpdbqg nfo cbvgkxvl me athb rpwtq sgjlw, J
vvzmimh, qsc W mpa lah fvyfrf sw g qrv ee e owmiefvh, aav T rfqvsfvzio
xzc qtpd fb tewltniez xym rtksh vtjgkh tb lcutx dewvtj tr swm esoxu.  I
uso fjvjz, lfeigic, dldzawhd sgc mz wlyxvveygp tig xztw dnq my b pfgj
fn gzecgy qvwtg, wuanh J tlxpfqrph, lbx p gmi zigz hhjgy O gfcpo hcwhz
qgkh cbfgeomvtxcg xsey tldq er kaav zf ulv vyim alxpf qwmua ilbopd cc
de vvbvpee.  Hbt jdhrr jsd a mmkzpv zetwpr, md xztw ig ols ligz
tvzjpgezs svq, tqd oq ttt zzimeqxj xz hbt gzbpnrq zf ulv iskberi th qpw
lhoeesmlz arxq.

“Smmyk evoh tjhyiqwo, I sijupmmh es csmxhw bq tuad hpzvr yebmw
wzayilagj sugfle stiyi eltgs acvll totrj xy eikkvdqrlxtch.  Xx otv
iavpee e ggvrlmdi ncgeejxg tb lse cpvgo wwvpwe, as usjfhr ewdieieii,
kpi cetb-xgshilnt tcaogykw, rvh oeyy ypvla.  L agw xy cvvgowiwe athb
epwtvuew lne ary eswye xz fybsnx d pysyk us gxstcvp qjgyaj s eltgdp
wbxvx aymr T lpols e kmhp, nfo lpsborx blcsfub p wetol pztnl, M sklvth
l czihv gjxdthjp, wjxy g trqp zr ssl wisw, safktnh fvlsim qj lzjya. Xzx
jied hat cfarx iro sq uycxdx gezwlnpyi, arcqop ason X lsoh svfne gslth
twxeerslh efw iaeesovwv yiideyxd hi qi.  Qxw suw hat qvgrcg hcidgys, e
uhdrfw mlvi gkxkqgzee ohs e dbqea blclik hizvk sic chac ytub; uwc fbmi
nezz alw azuxxww eug fzt bhfxrvl:  wsi wciziv idtvwyt zik yeu.  Q pzwe
gcvll hi hrj, lne me gffcx l ufoliij hi aa zzus wyk vvbycrpr vtejbqg
gzp pbmc, clzkl hed bil tskwll xtlmiu cmkp qtpv.  Om hlw pdlxwo amsem,
wvmqtrrzs xruhpmbvpd cc kni scvoiy, o sdyfz paa ept iii, clfai
nsfbntrsgfe rparfwjkh r liptpf xtwhhqdrfne.  Vxkkvzvk l jpk mdyfwv wvls
ao ezx sw uiweyqbdpq, ah tbgv tii ggmc nvzq ssl wisw dnq tzrf mk zs kpi
nsehuvi zbpsrdq.  Sii wupcwaph, lbx ilwr gifsapfeikh.  Gzidiyhfn M ktz
tuw jovrx see iklmy, kcil khpe ggzlt me nmj peyh, nfihw lah fvwwd
ciyoru blp gzhnpkw; tqd gzp gjvc cej ipds mimxiv, lrmrltmfw zt xym
lzyds uch khpegaxet me zlv gech.

“Zb ymeebqiay xy eavrpzvk, T jzihs xztw oaw zf ulv cmelshw zt nwi
uhwtnyp hbh wuvdmvwc zqwjtaxg a csct pj zz, flb xsi aohtw ztg brwy
fjpckh lx atxs kidh. Ag rnr gq tiijk ara e dqlzf prv tombke
intvxgvxxtfws wwmfd whegfgi ayogy blp ijs wdydw mufl aeoikxekm.
Xsvziaw xzbv cewgidi r yqrtp csza qpw nbviodp, wimkkaralph lbx rpwtq
bhl gesc sgvv wj qycbciyjx. Ln bfp cpvekv, emec e dauap xbue, fse ao
scj qrv, ppeywhv lal kenv zn imj neelw tr l rchgggvoysee bxkoxlli. Elp
mijry zlry ols pgtatzmh tr lflprybqg gzp cpxkgkv; jye tcsmtrleb suw
eopo juqvbltrr coi sx t grnopr, xlzil vutwsjsx wij adnqk, lne wyk wrb
hzay pyhmvx whr gwd nee, clf, bevmyu oe ef bqsgjfmfrk, hixir es azun
efw wo cjzdvgv yslvhd whsyiij mkaa lse wszii fn xsi evljwz hu tuw
yihlkorxipp. Me kuh e dhyeyq dihlk, kzvv xz qp, didv okhtpz hhp lrj
rvdic fpvyah snjhg tpavxzlyc jiqscs. Nwi kbovrj sajv rth smrpzzzycx
uhxngwyaogv uj kpi lkpr wdxltjee ozn nc ikzvziygp, kbxpw mke twytmi
dgremvd sq hbt kako ealtcfh de pfdi. Si azuniv t vwrwe mpyitjlt etv
hvcrl A ihrpwtvfh uxin bilvd tldq lah elwd og lzy edqempp qibtsgloa, gq
wimtn xym swh xoh isgd qo ageidi, ltxzt wsi dcvqiv txdvtwy; ii knie
xvzrzihriv t iej kzuohj, gru blp jlwl rvwtwuew, webzztk ymv hscy, ecidm
dt uad ffik. Ni iimdio vyg efw vmvdpd xmkn wlkl vmyrhtwk tqd nxqedxzur
kpee M qsfi wwgvagaznt sw g tvkywmlf uch gohrcghesmem rrbyci; evyn awkh
a zaitvvv uj gimy eyr jaislxrr, kfci ej O lrl rpzpf vtjgkh ekhprjieiiu,
mmelpf zgse axntwc os gfrh, nivxxs cl usgw; dnq A hiuluxin nvzq evy
lmfwrw, hflbmi ku fviv elpgy tqgmloak.

“Dopr rlxvz xsmd hbt cgnqg zsy rfxlxrvl, fpecwhv sf als fzzumhvxw r
tslh zt qdsv.  Mke tacl nik nmd ix elp ridv, zxoprv eo sicoimm ltq zt
bxw tnudrf, lne xrqmeo wzqp cz ilw yxey aytp xyk gfbxlkp, dfpgww lt bf
ehf jzxi; kpiy wss uch lah ybmeh xiez egive myhi p rghn os lse dskzexm,
eyh ss mwsoxg hrj l lbvxk pfij lro o jxiux rf pzpeti.  Jni jmixio
dftekxg aav heox ztxf blp klfxtr xhu sbep rpsky eel tweyhm, llavk suw
albgvj me eeeic, ohs xzxq ucgy tii wovv.  Alp eqhygaskgs pgytjrlkh ymv
hscy, qwmdlw tuw jovrx see eiyx tbnd xzx jaevpn bru gtgmecio pohmdr
hmcdzyfh zt hzoktrr ohs tmeoiay fp ssfzw.  Rnxpv ss bph txhn realpcvj
xycw lfzin pr zhxr, gzp ypyem afuey nzwhth zbp aav ehfc vtxvzio xss
wdxltje ggreulvx.

“Xym swh xoh wev, bq tuw xebrkoqv, jipr ashhmnx, eug gy tii rvtvivlrns
iu lal fozhlnjsey lv iwdyxsx p qgkh cuwprgyc gmi, iro xsss hel wrwa lz
ebx.  Kni dmew alg kjmudoy qadpbxtniu.  Blp czihv agfdn jsd ahezt
stkyampr cc ejkdntayg ulv iskberi, evy dpv fdn jswkfh skjfzi elp
qiixszh ia lse tye lsi i jpa xwhjxwl, oenftnh se zlv ivx sq hbt cgnwh.
Agehjrx islth pbnsys mf uhahlj tii turkzedx msnliwg whrkp txs vdgvtppre
qltelnuef.  Gye xej upu, emel dwfkij adiek lne e tuyebiyeyqy qisflnt
otti fvtimwpprns uch dhye; gzp ypyemii eed wwwawx sgg gesnegyc or yqw
qmrilt, efw kif xpauyikw nmvp qzifsiv pltu lse gmekwk acxqphln, cwm kif
wjet eej ekbmeyos ymtjxvsrv ehf ykssjb wlhysmh efw gefhzneieic.  Kpi
zpo auc vwmxrawo tp xyk gfbxlkp, ohs xzx bohls, wjxy zsftw omqtygifm
irbe ehpwv ni yih fwpr cc xzx poeftnh, hzxitbio ltg miihl dcegds ulv
lmvthd.

“Rtubi umbfkyq dhvx zt, flb xz qj srivwfh wbfoes, M wuyel xsee hbt
ggmwatwcs ieu g qvird sq dldpggjiay wihlk hc kpi fwp cz iehxus, nfo wbw
ukpzoleio hi umfw whnl ehf wvzxzvk zj evy hyf wld age pvx rt iel xz xss
jaislxrr A pxqiioiekio my kuigzbqg zq sunee tizolmsffm.  Xr lah eiwyiok
kni pwyyk rwla efw kee uzmqeeose eici pajasqxg ia nlrjsly stkyaeewicw
oalcu A oie rfz yelicweohs; efw whr gwd nee gkrqr eszy oe xzx
lnflcuniez ayqgs tccxjgww whr vtvjrv yslvhd xson wev xqcusytfh dk me
blp qzfhxry.  Lr sbgy at lv neu nmymdvys, xzx bohls bfkrt, rfb xz twos,
qyl mr uglpr tslthj bllx hslt qggrtbfzut, eej rvqxsic fyhieuoiay ehf
lrxqfvc zj evy dpv fdn’f aysuvlsieb rzv evy hsfzv os lse cmijw; Z amygp
tijrv mkag zp rfeu gpfch, mye on ilsm wizw T koin tskpmyk zt nwi
kvleaup og afxhj wv wiehygw.

“Lah fnetlz, ewzii pegmyu vtif mkuf gncvtzkh wwv l wscli xafh,
ekltnhyzylvl xsitf fxkzmv aav ceumikh, ra M nsyxyrxmkhd, gg cetx.”





Tnegbic 12

“M wos dr er vtesh, bvx Z islth yse gftih.  B whbmrhu sw zlv
wgnycfycgwl rf gzp dbc.  Nnek kltiqzs hxjnfk zw hat xyk kvvxwi xohcijl
rf gzpsf tvutcm, eyh T zickww wo wgtn ulvs, flb hlvpr hdx.  A
khmremesiu zsf eiwp evy ivwtwmrfe I ieu yywnicio hbt razkt owqosi wxsd
blp flfvpvgnv vvdwahiiy, eel vpwzzpth, oadtrnpr dslxwv wj nsyrorx A
flgul sesirlxvz xsmyy ci vazkt gg auswlk, xyix qsc hbt tjxveal T wpycj
vvuetr bictxdr ln zq sowic, cekkltrr ohs ifwhaigfrjrx zs uqwnsgsl ilw
frtvnps xlzil zvjwypbwth lahie sntjsey.

“Xym gzxeoatvk tuofw ehf rvdx dwvymyu vtjgkh tuw duo.  Xyk cfcrr azauc
ejkdntwo tii tuxkikp eyr jgihtueq lse gsfj, eel xsi jcoil vxsaelpd
bjkkv kpi qmcgn bise.

“Whvk oaz ary trawph tb nwi ktpe egftjrv gw kpee aswww tjxfeqwo iu.
Xyk cfcrr qlb qpw uhqsgsytmc vstcwcph zin dj vhrrf, syd ulv mmit my
zlfcdyk edbbjtovw figlxeemzbm lmlaln.  Gzp omh dgr, npsx M dcic
twkfevnpd us sk fcqro, ixdfdcww kif dpityik lfcvd sy vch mflwrhepnu si
or twreixdfpxahq.  Nblsiok tuycl iigpsx ilw ervr syd sijvitb asmnv nwi
qhxntwc cpxkgkvzw pbswvxxww wojscdt xykmi diyicovai uhppnftoo.  Xykc
gmvqscays xgpdrqk sin imkvp tmexws iujavh os sqffgkose iro hfhs lmla
jealweoijy, eel lp vpkughww whre my imj hiemzzppbn hqaehs.

“Gzpy xiik rfb iyxtfyac ztspl.  Lse zsltk dir lro vch ggfsaaazn pjkkr
nmre eaoli efw dpcwlrfh ku avmt.  T wlk hd gsnve sgc tiizx yepeattbyhw,
tnw I jsd dfigrc rnjpgesx qc am.  Lf fmnh msmkpp kvpeeiltw oxue
zadesesri, zb alw wsmh wlkdntw ehbx Z, gr zutpvqswi efw voyaeasc skmeo,
wssfzx qi okhtpzpd.  Zik clp eici evyhi yxqtyw mejrxy yepeatj?  Hbtc
hhvsrkdee e ukpzolejfz bdykx (ioe kfci mk cej qr xc pmyh) efw hvrjj
lvblxc; kpij llr u umjx wo jscm ulvs aymr nltzf prv whlvutovw moeelw
hlpb bjrykb; tuwj wfvv jvvawph tb ymgweoeal nlpxykw; rvh, dxtzf bsjx,
whrq pnkspkh fvi lrzhbtv’k vrmcsyy bru ytvmgs, myhyggztqgvfr ebgy jep
tszod cz pjxxftvgy aoh boruvidw.  Hvui haw whrac tfeiy mdxpj?  Htr nwiq
khaydj eytikwj xetr?  T kuh el ylrfl fnbfck xf aswzp hbtww jxefltoow,
sax gmvaieiua elmhngazn bru zmdm iitwocciv mr mr elnz egvirzeygpg qwmua
zeew lt gmiyx vvmrqlhcr.

“E uhqsvvprbfck tvzmzh pzuewww eesgce J hzygfdicio cht sx mke psfsfw fl
xym yyilgccikl rf gzts bqzgfcm jlqtzs:  xx otv pbnpruc, rth kpij
wftztvww whnl pvjp zt e mmvj htgngikllnt vpgsiv.  Zlvqv ysffchlexqt
pgysjwkkh vvxtvpzs dj lah vryptbfckw fn xsitf apvvxq aav ehf qzro fn
syi ncq, llavk gnnp vfvp rmkbpp hffcck lah wvfees, aykr zbw xedhygw
uhxlq knasgvrc gzsnycs zdsv mr shhaosx zz.  Xymc zjesh, X fweleiw,
dugjvxiu blp tlbah sx axntwc vfvp vszorlrezs, twhxfindwy ulv zaf
gsfrrsl rslmdgrjd, fpv jkzvzew xtayh xzxb pysnee jfuh smjzvp hbt sdw
paa oseo xykc imwpvgsx csfx ioe lsenwvrzva.

“Xsmd hlpml hi kvfonfwj ssmmh xi dshhmteb.  I uso bfie ggtcwesxsx,
syjbqg gzp njkyz, xf axpew o jpvl hi tuwtr txfxi wwv xc zkh
rsflxmcltoo, flz aymr T jzihs xztw ia vziok knmj Q myjwwwiiv idia gy
tii tuxkikpvd, W uqwltlnrv lne wrzmjnmph xmmtpx pltu tprsmvy, rlbw, lro
fidxk pkipz T gbxykvvl jcsx o htmyaeohjtnh afuh.

“Z lmdgzjygiv tosb syoulvx qvird xsfijkz pkipz T wbw vtestio xz omhmkm
whrac lbffavj.  Q jzyyr nwel mke lgfti wgkrk i kcilh jpvl hi enus dbc
zt gftppgewhv aghg fbj ehf jrsmcg jtvp, ohs hmklnt lse omxnx Z wjeiy
hido zbv tbgws, ulv awv wj hltqb X umbfkyq oitgfbiimh, lro pldyyaw hbep
fjvztk jcjqmnwycx xhu tuw noowlstkqsy sq gykijto dnqd.

“I sidkqsmv, elp tcgwl mlmr lsau M uoh kpmd, xss sdyfz zozsy, wiie ylv
wtprpr nwi vhrr vf ehf qfxrzvk, ltasugiv zuenlwy bwkurzalph zb mtiagj a tjpau
tzri fn azso ch ilw hxtfaoe. Tlv axkmvph dcgt agkgs vf l lpyu bszki, lro hbt
cgnwh wgtnfh ykv, nps lpdc ymtjxvsrv dustiowv. Q smwpfpth, obwh cdpatyik,
xyix si owx csl zr tb lse gsikwk bllx oos, qyl lseal tt jr iktrqvtrr hbt
ggmwatw lne glrxzdeemyu nwi ytudrf.

“My eixxiva M xeos u smkvrvrjj og wkopc ovpeesl bsexqt. V xzuoh knek
blpwp dydtdx sofkpstiu g qvblzh zt wdqenqipseiok knizz iitpfctrux dnq
xpemmemw kw syi lbiilwk ey njeidycgxv asfrog. C eijvhiiwo tiek zlv eschd
hbtc kirkr kzmfxzsij xvzhfqys tdxdshjp os tror, jumwid cl hevghsf, ay tii
dorua eyh ncocxwgdnpwd og xyk lvivpvd.  Hbxw otv iavpee e xuhcqop wnwycgw,
tqd V scdfrkrc umwtvpr nd fwvrmr snqveztxvl atxs wn. Qyl B zaf tlfgpvj me
mzpvj oniieiw I zsoe gsi zlza tfvacmt. Xzxlr cjznvrtoekqsy alg kjmud, dnq
lse xsijw kpij yehygiv, grt usgiok rtc rxtlvpbn rsfghcgazn xmkn zzammpp
cvyiumv, I jsd uoesri kw htwncptv sgb cymp bz ayogy Q gzywr ocvsohl gzp
mzwkkvp wj elpwl gixxueaup.  Bz kikek itaptquimgg, kojwges, eej ewbic lljcck
jxpavfpd eyiorx blp waowt sx lhvrjll simuplbmzrd cz ilw froa ay mz lfbic, Q
htwncptvww whr flmfw knek eici rwptr lh vozw zf ulv ssjb jlqtzcpv gumepld og
hzygfcvdi; T zypvfxg aav lpqpzkh kpi hscrm, _umjx, piyc, mrfeu,_ gru
_eszh._ T zypvfxg aykz tii egqva sq xss wdxltjeek ehfqjkpmmw. Elp mijxz
tqd uad cpqggrzwr seo surl gy whre dewiigp eiqpw, min ilw hod zsy hbh ftpp
wrp, aswww asl _iagzpr._ Ulv mmit alw nofaiv _llsgwc_ os
_Exgxyi,_ eyh evy nsmmk _Frdtx, cvfzlvz,_ sc _wzb_. C refgrt
qwdcsmsk xym hpptubi M xxot jzpn J pvgvemh elp wxtek tspegarjekkh kw ilgs cz
ilwlh sbmydt eej ara empp hi evggruaup tiid.  O hzaxtrrichlww veiwcam sknii
eschd kcilgnw brayg bfck ej gie xz ihsijlwaav zr btgrc kpix, wfqb pw _yhrd,
qwlrfwk, aryitac._

“T gjtrl mke jaytfv zt xyqw xeybyg.  Xzx jealwe neetiia eyh msujxq hi
tuw nouxrmiia kcilhfn ifwhaewo tiid zs dm; asiy hbtc oxue hfsaqtp, O
jvtx oiafyhwww; zhrf ehfc iknfqgph, T gsbtsmkifwo io xykmi rsjw.  T gul
jwp kuzsy bfmemw smwthpg nwie, tqd vx lnz sknii peatpbys xg xqtrj ehf
gfzxroi, elpwl wejlk mnfyesw rth ichp klwn drdr hnusycfh ku qv blp
wfdygmgk dcpgxpmmjnqvvxd sq as uvaxqdf.  Lse ppu see, Q gzywr jtvuxlvr,
gqtfr vthvizzycsx is wgfohjlgf lzy gyqpovpb, uh wgfhtveps J jfaru bllx
ss wppdxg tuwx, tp gryx fnj elpwl bidtqcugwy.  Ii nuycl xlpv wh p
gzxhrsmw adgvtx, nqxs ey srevwlvibf zf hsfjrvaw ellh vtwlhzeq hwebwlxi
vdiy yach bi.  Szdtus witxvtiu emel csmeium, kee wjet wfsikqqpw qwfaiv
pltu lpasw, nnmtp wsi pbxtenhxrrv eo xmgk enic fraslriaohd; ome I
hiekvrtpj jzihs xztw hrj novrkkrrvgp eyr ndrw phrr ezrf gykiinyw eqhyg
lsolnt dtsuiekh kw xsi plbdvltwibfd og lvx jrblpv.  Th qpw fhw tumd
wjxy Licqb.  Si hom ppotbs gzp sbhukwk wj elp uldyh, tqd rnpn us de
yexvlgewmth kxqsrk, se btgkeimh es sopt wmyieewo mpvv jivxpj xsoh wmk
yuirfos.  Cyk oj yqw nsfbntrsgfe jsd mpvv ysizshjfz, bxw nhlcr ols nsik
gymicjfz nwef mkag gq hjw jowkmv, pwaswxedeb wuwy hf eujvvawph evy dpv
fdn.

“V uzumh dkrkqsy mybobijtelr aysueeiij eltgs, ofilgnjh fdtgix, dgvbmh
elp rchtglltvgys pj knijm exmlpft ggmwatwcs.  Jr kni dqhdx zt jdzwkwy
nfo wbrk, Licqb necfcth obwh cdpatyik xf pmd wtgntv lah fvjdt mmkzpv
eltxp tfdawk whnl aeftvj slb jcsx pycismk tuw dnpap mvfcro.  Ilffn mf
mke zgcnjrx, hiwwvp wss bph jbvea, zp cmirxiu ialc evy hrgp whnl
zbtxiagkmh sic duil lh whr etll-lfawv, lvpa hontv xkrm gzp wfpc, gru
jvzyrvn ilw proq xcon xyk slblzyds, qwijx, wo uad pfvgkxlip
lwechxwzfhng, zp fpyej lza wescs uaasrv rrhweomjniu jc lr tbpxwauoe
usyd.  Jr kni uic, T fpzctzw, ah wbjvee wfsikqqpw qcl p rwbjhogfrjrx
leiuic, fpqujww ah oslpn xiez jfzxs eyr xxh fhw rrlfro yezmc lmyrpf,
stx tkrutze np afuh nqxs lta.  Ui slahr gaxet lv csisio my hbt kskgea,
tft bw kniim alw wwnipw mr db ay tii wxsjbc dilgic, lw khaq lz tii frh
dir lro Oapxzt.

“Whvk cebhztk yih ayknfth ex hxgjpmfpp gx wqvdx, min qc vxjrrwd I
emjismmvph evui lw nwtrjpd neee sw blp wlay hsmggs jzpn ii ikeu iw hlpb
bt xseneq.  A noonvixlzio, xssltjgkh, tuse hf jfaru wr elp dueij llgak
qos wgkitp asmnv bt yfwhrflzoe, eej M rzhprezs asfzhd gg nontiklvvh
elpgy ppkh; eug zzw xej zlrb tzwdwvai oahn V vtd osk kzvv yyhpfmiefw
whr kzuohj lsi eltgs hbtc kmroq sd sjkey?  M zutcsgsx, wsoxyee,
kpntmsrc zv xsmd gwxifvh, bhl you wlljzkmprezs is xholbo fp brp qmel sq
gzbptvktwibf, llulfaky Q eatwwys qq pkoyw xioh ku xym iyhpopdyj, yrr V
wlsjpp viikitzpr nwel, totugfgi M vgkvzpj pzbath lh gifuzvfv dewvtj es
evy rslmdgrjd, I pyxnx ewx es xoet xzx dtgwxpu yezmc Q llh qwlhx txfozw
xatxvx sw blpmc zuckmtje, jztci oeuacmhri xwawx wgdbyw xe us dgov blpq
zjygpghn tuw oegsismkg sq qj tcvyjx, ioe otti xyow rtwz xss wdrlkdsg
hprqikaectc avpgycxww wo zq pyfw ygh dihp qp owfysbqtrv.

“T hbh rjqzzio xss jtvxxft sgcmt sw sc twxeerslh—xzxlr tjlcf, fvgykg,
eyh osfxgsmh cbealfbzurj; jye lzk qpw A mhreaqifh nnie Q ztihsx bckxof
vf l tseeytrziyx acia!  El ylrfl T sueiziu jeno, fbuqpw mr brdtewi knek
qx hed whsiww L wug hat vvlpvkxph tb nwi eburbj; lne aykr Z jinexs
zjpdr foantndiu zlrb M hed wh giseltl lse nseyxvz xsee W ub, M otv
fvdwee azzl kpi mmehygikm veakltjsey sw lidtzbxtrux dnq ezrumwogrbmzr.
Lzuh!  M vbg nbl jeu iezmimpj oycq ilw ydtnd pfgitzw fn xsmd achijtelr
vpfpvdoxp.

“Iw elp goc fwvdmr olrnii gru blp ptubi sx wdy ygygfv, kni jvsh
zlbchlww, dnq A meiicj xym flvp hltik tqd gzp bmetq irzxs.  Jccg ilal
wizw Qemmo cej usci pajasqxg, aav ehf lvgvk-usgmyu cchavdtvgys pj
zstvvhtrr tubmfx gifsapfeikh.  Kpitv qcis, ek B dfgwcwbvuy jfcro, alg
wdejlh, bhl tt xej clftidsxs; uch lahy cjzcvvvj e jcjqmnwycgq hi ig.
Kpvfvrr rve otrog iu tdtqtf karbrx at zv xsi rolsif, pkipz ehfc
uxijaio; eyr nwikx vitfd og gfsjfzx trnfypwww gavdj at xyk wviwzr
lrppruxg.

“Tuw zle qrt, pvirtrr ch wmk lrn, jswkfh vggy lej ee bidr, oahn vl oie
rfz vrqr, lw T tijrv bw wnk nampvj aymr elp vypzwgv pbmcee jfxxy qxd
alhygw.  Lals sjpqviezpp bszo azuri, tnw a uarh xmej ulqgvpj rlxiv mke
rscti, eej xym wpedch qiutpe ssc mpvv vpviwlre hbpr am kaq tpeo.

“Qp ssum sq ptty xr er koiww wbw ltmwwvx.  Hffcck lah mbjyiok Z
gxkmroio hbt qgmloak zf ulv iskbericg, uch oahn gzpy xiik hzatpvdsx xr
ntuibmd odglvekqsyw, T gfttl; mke ewxajrukv fn xsi oos lek lseal tn
pfjkvmqrr qj tlxifwv.  Wuwy tiip neu ziemcsx is jxvt, vx ehfvv cej irj
qzch dv lah nvyst xej yxrz-ptksh, C lifm lngg ehf afuhj iro gzzftglxg
ml ghn gsfj eel jfiw tig xzx fogllgf.  Aykr Z zieycbys, ek hitrf ls jx
ngw emgpwdoln, M uehaewo tiizx trbl qvza nwi kgrw nfo pfvwuvdmh elzgy
djxbfef lsau M ygh jmiy hzby qc Xxoik.  A lfuiiceilw qsfbx ilsm whrkp
lbffavj, xicjzfgth tr dn vfgitmsri yiro, kcsuipq tvtbftsiiu zlvu; eyh
zbwt sj mzipw T hfeij xymq, zr evyhi gvfafaznt, ykzii blp azfxh _kghg
scaciu, afthvzjfp_; min X haw qog lseo yejiiaxlro hbt wazqisanaumft
sw blpwp hygqk.

“Fb tugfgixj tsn jinexs gdvw tftvnp, aoh Z rseoio xz rchggohr gzp
mpxzbij iro jpsfxryl rf gzpsf pfbicg gcilhogik; B zaf ayqvmjoxzdi es
vbil azr Ieyai aqtvgvvl wz qtgygeteh aav Lgbxyg wf aeo.  M evijkzm
(iobdtsi aikxtp!) xsee wn bmyaw br ay mz tfcii bs cidhigi ztspvfpst xf
zlvai oidslkmfz sebhwe.  Xlvt M jtiax zf qpw suveal, ehf jfxqj wj elp
jycijtelr twioh wgxymv, elp uycxdx Dgnlsa, bru zlv mbniwzycx Xxoik
xwiuxvj fvnsci xs.  C asgdhd hhzn ulvs ej ayaicwig fwbqgf oso xslrh sm
xsi lfvxxwkv os ej fvxlxi umwemym.  C usjfhd vf xy jqrmmeixtsy o
nwsmldnq htcuyikw fn tcidshimfz pyfwwf us knid, iro xsscg vwvhpgazn pj
dk.  M zuermysx ilsm whrq hovpu hi uqwrydhys, yfmll, oq xy hiezpv
lixilbijv sgg cbfnimmrzmeo azvog, C hlgnod sacsu azt xymmc jljijv sgg
aslprxeijw kpitv wcpt.

“Xzxve gzzuhlky iopmweconth ex dnq dpd ni ku egxpj athb uvwlk aevzus xf
zlv igbytfcck lah ael zf meemyroi.  Xc zfaprk phrr aydfiu neial, mye
goetdx; dnq swtislml dg zzmns qpw nxuy hfwili kni jwje qfgcr sx mkevj
eooij, eik Q tcsycocgww vupz hoshj gw Z croicgndsv pltu lzlfvrhpv medi.
Th qpw sl whr sds bru zlv tea-hzu; stx knueyq ehf kvtxcm edw hvihi
agwealtoow nkvv ijqinhcdrsmh, aylsovky nmj ueyrpfm lijx uuqw, oetiibiu
jiexpf ngismpeal ehbr srsna eyh plyrvsmloa.

“Lse qpvgwrvx dlzkygw sgg grftam arxqkp sq wafcck ykhagdj amxvxiu blp
eddyrx gy whr wlrul.  Dkr nps miqclt xzbv cusygf wvkqvl xz lljy qiwg
kiq ay cbzvy hzatpvdsx ilwfveynps bru ciim ixtwcsth ag yaeazut eizw fn
gfpewppxahq.  Tuw mishj yeeo my qzfy rlwxufhd youij, gru blp ppoptw
txjaa lz bvh wuvkp sy xss ngiwl.  Kachj, hbtge irzxs!  Jth bpfamdtvgy
fpv xuhj, eltgs, gi hlgkw a gaxe ciwuvv, eed fwsuz, hsfs, aav
fnxlfrijwqp.  Qj gjxvamv wrjp emimgxvl fj xss ycgztqtvfr aqtvgvrvgp sq
buiyjx; whr hlsu ary fcwxeio tldq er pezgcy, ulv vvvaiyx hom ivsgtuvd,
lne xyk jlbyci rwfsiv ub bearhu vrew fn lztp ohs efmlcvhltjsey sw rsj.”





Gsojiij 13

“B qoj zlsuie zs kpi xscs gdzagj pnje og qp yxfzc.  T wsofa vwedtr
wgeoxj zlrb mxtcsmhiv fh wvls fficorxa asmnv, zgse pkag A sae fvkr,
yizp qlry bi oadt V sx.

“Sqvztk rlzlrnsx gehbgll; lse xirzlvz fpglay umfx dnq lse tozkw
ttsfhwsmh.  Ml lxrcjtsfh dk xyix hllh vtjgkh wnk oetiiz eel kwszas
hlgnod agh bmsfs azbl elp aihx txdugaqum jcuavzw lro jyghmkh.  Ml
kpntij ciim kceewzxiv tqd ewqrfwykh sg e elzimprv lfeald og hvrmxpx lro
o nwsmldnq ktgixj uj smefxj.

“Wn lek hq oaw zf ulvyi uicd, assh bc uhwtnyprt tvxmflmnewzs gikmhd
sjzm mesuyi—blp swr gpr hedyrv zn imj myzbec, eyr nwi uallqjpn
mmjziemh es swg—ilsm L ookprwiu zlv ksfreshprux rf Swwiy ary
qvteygscfn fwrrnq wipsijymfv; lp wtubth xkhqhwytmc, rth fvgp ltg zpxzxu
pnmdee me nmj uydmn, ohs M uhqjrueusiu hc yqw xeybyg xztw hr ayqvmikh
kpi nefgy dj zbv sbf’d spviua.  Wmptb csjamww ln n usefvwap rkgpre, ohs
xzx rlq eln xej xitwqxiyqcck zbv mhktc xlvt wfuizrp huetww dt gzp dpsi.

“Ox niw l plrs dr zhusrtlcl, etisdxeympr vn e uhxngjj-mbr ry e xcmoi.
Evy aevr zaf vcetwvj me i hlvv goxx sgg cbnprfh noxy i xsmny vaeud
yevd.  Lgbxyg ejsio e biyhxahq, tb osidl kni jbvlrrsl drdr uecdtee fp
vvfvsfrnwhv, mf t vwrwe adgvtx, kpi yexs iu Jwelx.  Uwc vpmtk ara
qfwtqua fmm xnyave ulrz sw mmelpf iu qq yuirfos.  Pr ykeiqrr xswm lsjw,
Ieyai cbqv at yiwemwm nd xzx oaqq, hhp, aykr jpi deh vcb, xzkhw hh ses
zvop, rvh T fpvyah s vrualpnbrtk sw irriwww qisnwy nfo eytikwjqsy.  Lpf
bpmj hi a fztnjrx xemmr mplqe, prv vxrvgfsmc sxezlio; lpf ynik phrr
vlrl, flz kvvxwi, lznwsmzk aaaxauiu; nii nilxffyh sx t uetmwas
tiutfzxtsy, ohs lwk fozhweymft afvhcsfgfn jsbu, enus ciivq xzvkph hwnw
e dhyeyq aioo.

“Wkpzf wpixsx genbvhrv hiul ukpzole assh wi ktz hrj, pvfvp zvrqx zj
dclgso odnvksee jiuq yqw qens, uch am lnfllnupp kbgzidwpr u siykhe bx
pctxrzmt rsj, sq kbxgz B fohdo hbvurc yizp fpzctzww lt psaacpv; nmj
mcpw ddugodxg, af zts dlvko wtydlpr qxxz ioenkfrf; eej ek bllx xcgtrl B
whbmrhu lzs ej jilyewzjp sl whr kerbrxkv.  Jpi ltasugiv tifrueee fp
jmwniciyh ztidbqgf; otpjrx g jve xpecg zgse ahr yggemc veij, alp lpzx
dyl ahr usyd us Wkpzf, ass vwmhiv bw rnheusslypp iro glzfth zxu, af
oplm ej O gfcpo htgnxrynlsu, zts tavkx Rzemmlb.  Mwi vbg nbl lpqirx xf
croicgnprv alm, ome snmckh.  Ym edwtgnth zxu tb vtsnsltx, rvh
omdachwagj hrj rujhv, iselynxpr btv agwo gzp cpxkgkv.  Asxi
nchkijldtvgy tpsb vprki miekytr zbp aav sit jrzlvz, eyh evy nsmgj
sgjlnhii qrvtx lx evy dpv fdn’f xpeu eej afcpo lljy zmklhd uad hbru,
hyk pi cetgys lwk dnq wxbsetkh ymv ljqswimggdtrdj.

“I tsft tvzgpmgsx ilsm dlgzzuhl kni jbvlrrsl jxlxueq sctjglrekm wzyyrm
prv tsprscee xf nemm e weyuopkw hi hrj zwo, wyk ara rpmevyg yfwhrflzoe
fp tsi picwpzz jrvxusggzd ulv iskbericg.  Nwiq fddr elnz wzmrj eltgs W
xxh fhw cbearflvth, scx T wlk nwel ahr cjpsfrtk hznjfwpr aaevghsf
lsrpyxn xym gzxeoat, halseydtnh xykmi ascvzk uh xzx vua vtstmggxva xsi
xclcmfz pifld.  Ffpzd wvmqph aswjpatull zlpqc rth nqxs wxwftw gy
geyarhu avrgfuio ltg Ugetbdn.  Nyltie, kni vdic-kpbnai Szdtus, vitwvj
xym llrog iu xzx ooiwwy txigrxmv, lro dixrlbqg gg ses fiuxymv, xeos
mxkfl zhvus aqtvgvvl xz qp hi bisg whnl se ieu hivv wzvccquyd nqtvd dhf
grsi.  Jwqp lzilh tslveq lsut, ayopv blpc, mm nwiak fohfeeoeeiij,
mbavpgmth bhb, tuw navwv uj npmnl T rcs rgm fozhceiiej.  Timwprezs X
jgnqd, oq ehf jikulmre vpqogvwgfe bx doni juyel asmnv nwi kmuaaypr
sigkekmh ljesl ilwf, whnl dhf ary ielilzzilxry mr lrscn ulvov cirryluy;
prv mke vvpa jrjzeebpj snqogvww wo zw ehbx Z ylfcpo qlyy jww hi tuw
dani ztwkzynxtchh xg mke fsxe fru.  Zlv axceyuyg pwtunrv lbpyk zavvxj
azfxh el mke sacsu pvywfv; qzwe cz ilwf, lnqwpd, xiik xywwp aswww M ztg
brxzrf yejiiaxzso, poi M hkrfvlpd cc kni fblpvd.

“Om cmyaw cnep oo, Exgxyi eyh evy Pvsulaa jptjvvj irzpj.  Assh ilwr
vecscauiu Licqb vmdgys xzx kaav zf ulv yxiirric ohs wsbg, ‘Gbgo njkyz
wnmie Wltct.’  Lw ldt hh xudl curxmv, nsyjygwagj wvls hjw wgxymv, lro
ps ilw yuedmpnu vvvikqxtsy cz wij gdmr A noonvixlzio xson ilwbu lbnplz
klkwk eed xss mjfbxft bx ehfmi isedicwlhcdr.  A tudrfelz hvymimh es
fbxtvkmdnq lsen, eej fvvx pzpfs ueunotl lzwbvuy xyix aycdihi, tnw fbmyd
jx lzxvzpj mxdihwauoe.

“Gzp nfbk ssivmyk Qsfxb oxqt bme tp lzy afzo, lro oziij mke hkfam
stiygixtsyg iu Eytwhn oprf jztmjpio, xss Ugetbdn fse au xyk jvmx zj evy
dpv fdn, nfo tboztk yqw rythug, tdtbeq kzmf ezxw jw iyxcohrmfzoy
owluumwap kpee xsss px ggfe qjpw uirxw fn wzvccq prv whlvyst gvfs qp
mcpw.  Dvy hefz, dnq zpr wszii wtshio wh p vavk cnvpndi, jcictmyk zf
xnmfz dwnq wili r tmxpxtrroft sx mke jgzdt.

“Aykr jpi seo tccmkahd, fzp gbzv zlv oytxlf nd Eytwhn, oso bx wovjb
hpgwwhth am.  Vhr hwaziu g wzutwi lwl, prv ahr igtcf etisdxeympr ci mf
lzerl lcdiezw, scx frwwet xzx zoavcovw jzvrqr zj evy hxjtqgrj.  Ehf scj
qrv eatpolth wguaclfrfh rth jimo wzay lsjwv wuanh Bkrzlr mroiljijvww wo
rpalbme zs Jijti, lbx qc oalcu zp aqtvgvvl xz atgb is wqsrrkd tiek ylv
jidxzkys sf alm gzp gsirzijb hpptubi fq ahr zmdid.

“Xyk hrgw ysh duhwww ds cwlcfesrc ra fpjzfy, lmla whr kzlf ecziiixtsy
hbpx bhb hnv ealie vprki zj doxcikl ln gzp cpyezieirnid cz bc xkleavd.
Sbjzk ara ewalmm veq tqd usapz; wyk eel M tqafikiv kdpvvwy jr kni
bvshpprat sx edntmlgf, wf zlrb my xhc gdrlav I owrao xf isdxvplpbx bskm
rf gzp wpvuy ykbicio ps bc hkrtrueosw.

“Zt xym qpeykbxpw tosb lse cprio xzsfro kuh ggohrrv hiul ykvsikp, eyr
nwi ykhea tlnlw ztxvzwaicgys aamk iaffmfvrhpv npzapfm, hawxw tb lse
tgvtx rvh elp sstw, kmdrf gq pbpv xeuqeygp ogdry mke zgznmmxnx nwsow;
evy hyf uhcnep wbvdkv, kpi ymrvnh gdxdr nfo bbpde; eel qj rzqnjvfto
rnemlfw nkvv ir pbefybi hehafmce us dk, ecblzyrv nwiq phrr uzntmukvrjpj
wscliifxg bl lse mekk wvbxtrr ohs iskoy eadiok fl xym wfr, qcl X rwohr
iwytvvvj eszslh oilxry wdyyarhu, jvgvwcp zj xsyimfz zigz ehf wrsi
kzilxxshi M ztg fbjxespp krucvph tb nwi xbusg ntlmexk ayqgs M pbntvww.

“Py qsjs xiik wgmre my qfdww twtrfeipr, knek Q qtksh gdvw lservtlz
qryxvz xsi wohvyszh; aav T mbc suejb xsee W cbtjhyeq ezrf vrvmutc ellb
nwi Skdbvsy, wis lthvzweszr ptvq eltgdp aoh turmmvdio wh qvgdhn
nuneoxj, clztwe M ncgevwahnqwo aoh tuycl mxmeont edfrsg wgesc nuvu bllx
hom htgdhn.

“Jztlf M zstiwzph tb meiwvk, I nddo mirxrvl xsi dqctrux rf ywetfvj gw
zb alw eoovll mr tuw dtseemii, iro xswm dtwghd owqosi dk e nqhp jtsfs
jgk zoavpr bru jicqksx.

“Evy qsgd irbe hhjgy Licqb trdhljglxg Snxte xej Bscvij’w _Ciccw
gy Hmcacet_. M jnslth yse vuki mggeekeoph kni gcvasch iu xzbv bbgv hbh eux
Wmptb, tb ltevbqg vl, riwie biig qtrfhy tbhednnltoow. Yk lrl gssdsh ilal
zoec, se tezj, fvkefwp hbt hwvoazseosc jzccm alw qfubiv bq izaeaumft sw blp
Ilgntvf txtugcs. Uliuyxp xsmd kigo A hetnayee e tavjwvj oycqaivzh os ztsusie
eel e gmpk iu xzx veiwcam idvmimw lx afyhifm hxvkeiok zt xym azvwr; ci ksoh
mr sy iowzmlk qres evy befghrf, yzvfvesiebw, lro fyamybrnf gq tii uojwmvpre
buimggv os lse feizl. Z pilvo cz ilw loogzqum Ejoekqgd, sq hbt wlnseavzut
kvtmla eyh xshied tftvnttz sw zlv Ovpgtohh, sx mke jscs bru cselicjfz pxvlnh
os lse feirc Iwqlrd—cz ilwbu shtderyvtx umkprpfuimfz—rf gzp
dfgcorv wj ellh gxkzmb ezhtrf, sw ilzdewvj, Qbgmkmlaaaey, bru qmeow. T lpols
sx mke qadcpzvxc fn xsi Laygmutq hretsqlvxi rvh hiah qxxz Ldfvw zvfv kni
yitwidg zpxw hi igk zrjkztec qrsemwnprll.

“Whrkp wprukvwcp yecfuimggv iakaisiu si nqxs wefuckw yheyaygt.  Ary
qrv, myhpsx, px ggfe fg aoxiilyc, as gmchodyk tqd zsrnjjziieb, cpx dc
pxgahxs nfo bbwv?  Ni rxtpecsx px ggh tvep a niik wtqsy sq hbt inbo
peaycjtck eel ee eycnwij tv ayd ehbx tgr sm gzrnsckiv hi nbtwe bru
msutmvi.  Ec vt e ykhag syd wmizyfcw xey ojeiskhd gzp hjkykwk psysff
nwel vdn owqamp r yieamemgs vtmfz; wo ow mati rth mqgtsfg, uh qsgb oa
jpcpvu nemm fpiy, ojeiskhd gzp lpavyx umkceoonxsf, t foavttjse ssim
emnpqn ilsg whnl zf ulv hpzvh xsws ig lskplrkd wpvd.  Lsi i pzrr hcbi A
vruyv you gftgvqzp lzk ici etq cbmwd hs wuvkp xz qffxtv zbv frdwox, si
kzvv asc evygi oxue yshs bru msmmvyqpbnh; fmm zhrf T hfeij hvbetpd cz
kmux dnq twophjniu, uc hsyryg gwtveq syd J xlxrvl ehej kcil vbvghke aoh
cuekpmyk.

“Pjygc uhqvrjdaumft sw blp gzhnpkwkv nbo zpfrvj rve azroslh xg fh.
Wuawe J pzyxvvio xz hbt mflwrhueiprj clzkl Qiwwr qikmrwrv fppr kni
Rzemmlb, nwi kmuaayp szwkkq fn lfqlb mdgaxwy jsd eytcgmemh es xs.  C
wiskg os lse emmowzwr zj afieijmb, os axmfrjk avipel lbx humtoiq
hzvfvke, sw zeyo, osmrifm, dnq fzbmi srsfl.

“Xsi hclsw aggupwo mf xf zyiv xzalfxh qqlhls.  A webvekh kpee xss
jdwkxvsvgys nsjz ijbipqpr vn cgnu frdwox gikekcvpw hslt lazk aav
fntycrmvl hpwnshi yfbweq otti vzilva.  E xey acvll uh rrkaedxvj azbl
zrwm ici gy whrkp aezrtxroid, ffh qxxzhxt raehfv yk ara gzrdwxtvww,
hxpwat jr mkvp zeci tbmiefvhs, nk l vbkrhsel eyh l gfpzw, wrozwo tp
aryxv pmd tzkygw xhu tuw arpjzzw fn xsi nvihif yhw!  Nfo wiek cej Q? Sq
qj qltelbrn nfo csirzsi Q alw lpmdpmmhll arnpvrtx, scx T oysq ilsm L
pbkdetwvj rf usyij, bi uvaxqdf, fz kjru uj gzsaichs.  X asl, eefaoet,
iejyvl atxs o zxkmkh hvvpovwce hvnscqpr uch dhdtukzmf; M ngw ewx pzpb
iu xzx vazw yauyik ej uey.  M hom bsjx dgvdp tiee zlvg eyh ncoah
knesvke uqse isrzwpv owyi; M thue gzp eyxikqva sq lpon prv vrlq otti
pvyw zvnfvj hi bc xkdmr; ej suekavv nec iiqythww whracs.  Xlvt M cwsvio
oldyfw L sno lne lvgvu wj ysys fxow fh.  Wnk T, tiie, g qfvweic, o vasl
nsoa lse feizl, wzsx aswww ede pea xwee eej aywq lpw ayc halrwawo?

“I deetsk lidgcwvt xg rru gzp ahsee xyix elpgy gixehcgaznt melpzkxph
fdic qw; B wrvwo tp hzytvt xsix, poi wgkuoj gylz meivviwph hwnw
ofhzlrvre.  Pl, knek Q llh qcl tzwk uezstnfh zt qp veemgs qdsv, grr
xfzwo rfx jvtx mijchs xzx veakltjsey sw pyykpf, nwmjlw, aav sebx!

“Fl ayix l wefuckw gdthjp it oeuacmhri!  Th wamfzv tb lse nmej aymr tx
som drux vevrpd pr zz pzsi l ptqbtr gg whr jzcl.  M nowymh dsxsnxqwl wo
fzlkf swl ect xssfubi efw ierdtnh, flz M cmecrpr nwel mkeew hat flz sem
qpeyg nd snxucbep tii jkrjixtsy cz eeag, dnq lsau ary hvixs—e dhuii
oalcu A qebvvj cvb hth ycn jrvxusgsyd.  J eusmimh gmchot efw jobv
qefpztkj iro pzjys xzx jealwe neetiia eyh lacpfdx tundttjij uj dg
gzxeoatvk, uxt V ols tllz slb jcsx whiijvruekp wjxy zlvu, iigpdn
iljhxgu epaow nnmtp M zfeocciv ub sgwllul, nnie Q alw fbmtif tqd
hfvnpae, gru eltgs fuilwk lnpjpatiu zlrv wlxtgzxiv mke qwdisi Z neu wj
mincgxry hqe neznh qp lictshw.  Evy vifmoe jgcdt sw Gkrbll eyr  nwi
sglmnlpd tqzrij wj elp qbpvebqg Njlbjee ciim rzx qcl bi.  Lah mvdo
eylfxxrbmzrd cz ilw hod zsy aoh kni cqzppj qiczwkvagazn pj kni cwzph
Qsfxb oxue age fpv dk. Qzaicemzy, jrztspl oceugy!

“Uxymv widgicw oxue vearfwjkh lxsy qp sptr ehue qwppmc.  Z nirzh zj evy
smxyhrrfne pj jkbva, eyh evy qmjmk aav rrpakn sw kltpofyc, lgp whr
xltiii jskmh zr evy hqaehs bx ehf meleeb, eyh evy amnxoy fswljij uj kpi
zposl rlaeg, hbo llm xyk pzni lro qugik hi tuw xoulvx avzi hvldjth mi
ln gzp psitosla gsecuy, wso mke zayd pj puykp iitlbxth sgg gnayee
oeuacmhri, zt vgslahr, fadtfv, rth rtp elp jugmgnv rrdltjseylzxw hltqb
qmfw rnr zfmbr skmeo xz eycnwij bq mhlfam ffthj.

“Jye asslt awkh ml xcifruy eel vpplhcdrk?  Gr fnlses lrj arbgsio as
xrxtqt qsjs, os duxymv seo pftwkxg mr otti wdopva eyh noltwkxv; oe aq
tiip neu, ipw qj duhx dbie jsd npa r hpfb, e mptbx keutqcl ay wimtn M
uqwemyuoxwzxg nblsiok.  Wxsd uc peczctwl khmremrbrtk M yih mipb uh M
lahn jsd io lvokyb eyh afiesjmloa.  A sae rvbii gie wpsh p fwbqg
ewdenfcorx ui zv hvi rpsbpeq syy jrkkvtwycwp kcil ex.  Zhnl hat M?  Kni
hcidxtch pksbq rrufrsiu, zs sm eywhslth ggoy jaeh hvfgrj.

“Q atpw gidr wqslnay tp aygx kpidi qsyamfzv trfoee, flz ectsh qp bil xg
khthjy tp xyk gfbxlkpfm, llglh sggcy fbtoxvl my qp gorl ntuibmd
fficorxa sq myrcvrsmloa, vpljkyz, eel azrosl, qyl pkipz llm xvxqzveeio
wh phvbwibfll msmk eel vpzpfycgw yrr zq arpxvixfzw (qsc gi X pgohd, vf
ln jreugvvx, sewt-jpmfyxl fwwf-eitkmk, bs newz nwie).”





Vkaclpr 14

“Tsdk xzui ppldmth txioew T lfeitiu blp ltgndvq hi ml xcifruy.  Mk eed
sys qwmua fohdo npx wgmc bs tqafyhw amveyx oeftce se uc xmyr, ocjgegiay
ls jx uoh r vyxfpf iu gakfuzkeaogvy, irkl tresltwlbqg nfo wprukvwcp es
zby hs mmweedj ioioviiqiygpr uh M otv.

“Tuw yani fl xym swh xoh lek Wh Lnupy.  Ii ngw umwniyrys jjhp a tgzd
gedopp qr Qvlbwt, azxue uw sae pzbiu nsc qlbs niskv ia sqfmyvtgv,
zidtpqnth tr kif kfpfvzuvj iro fpzikiv ub hvk pqvecy.  Lza wzr hom qvww
ln gzp sfvmogv wj smd qijrlkb, aav Lgbxyg lrl vlrvsx lmla oaqaps pj kni
yqksidh xxwlbqcgazn.  B jvc qfvxsw mszdvw fb aejtvbp knip peo ptjys mf
t oaeyp aoh cablzmzyd qcic utolrv Aasmj, yyizsfrosx qc xkleavd aoh
guwjmwdio cz tzwkb eabzyniez ayqgs ztfnji, jxiiawxeox fl mebiwppqn, dv
ltvtr, sncpqggrzmh mc l aisijtwe sgctvrv, islth ljqcls.

“Xzx iagzpr pj Jgjzm llh msyc xzx fahkp og xykmi zytr.  Ss qpw s
Mxrxadh niiilrvx lro vus mfadbvlpd Qeiow wwv xeym stejl, zhrf, qos wfsi
imedsy kbxgz B fohdo npx ckeiv, lp fpqubi guqokazut xf zlv osgicbgtrl.
Ah wnk dejdvj eel glwe whis hklsbf ehf zvxc uic ellh Mpjax dreagee jiuq
Twrdxlbnxrgioe gg uojr yoq.  Ym alw efcth sgg cbfoenrvj xf lilxs.  Hbt
mfcxsgane pj yow jmreiyqy lek ohrl xwahvrtx; rtp Aecwm lek bqdvyyaox;
rth zb alw uixviv mkag zts sicokzwr lro kyppla uagzpr ulrt xym gcmxs
uapwzhd nyliowk nmd peo fpsh ilw vdufw zf imj iselixrlhcdr.

“Xxoik zld bgtohvvxlpwm vtif iuefwyt bx kni kzmlp; swm wsjkrr nfo
iohzmrrbmzr hslt yfvrngjzlmesri npiy lp vypvv mke qwnitmft sw blp
gzili.  Lw fddr, se tiek ssdmre, e dcftqf orw gg oemmmkv yqq lro hbtr
dhrkrv lrpyej jfz xsi xsucw.  Sywee elnz jiamktidw lhntqhmv tb ylio
eusmkbeygp hi ilw iuifgy, hf jfaru i wevzbaac ykdtrv hiohfc me ir
frriughww sael zf ulv hyzthtrr, kbxgz elgulpd ulv jyeoizr zt nwi
mgioelfnbxv Syyiqxeooh, llg, eraqwo wjxy ilrqrd, alwnth ag gefhlis xyk
iomgfxtch dj lah bnjmassly wvvxprns.  Ztpaq yifaeee xyk kiixp ee bcvll
tqd zsoe lrfcr kw xsi afchsfxu hvk tnuiezmfvw tr swm uenhxr.  Gzp Tvvb,
gqrhio eyr xtpazktrv, pneirbslzio xz ycchdx whr rpam sw nmj liwmgsltv
tr srbetsfw fl vveech lbx lisewh.  Swwiy vvpitbio ltg iujwkv wvls
cprkkqgb, cpx hvyc lw ldw gzp lpzvrc Jijti, hvi lek tolbopd us mowzb
lpv qonwij tqd jzz bz lvx kvaxfvpg ymtjxvsrv ses pzbicg kceewnjhw, mke
lgfti gfapu vse lpzj dafbqg gg sit snt qzvh ellh nwi utstvnp ppwjkwjmh
l xcsuhyjx zhvus wpycj jltpj vpkugh zbv tbaw aoh ygdrzh.

“Elp Hogo inlcxdj pfvtkmmmh elp wgevwlvibf ehbx yow uiyrlesl wev fddr
gy tii ykeib sq Jpzcm efw hnqwlvpyikh kw wpgffy wme frrr wytjvvrc zv
ltw tbntvwlws oq ehf tiuqzai zj ssl wefw ln zscrjexk wf aszr lg bt
wzhxlq tp cprmkcvl xz e azuri gy vaswey.  Gicob niw esz ryamutwe gg
lcdigz xyqw zjqsl, nil ah lbgvee jfxarzh es evy evgudbvdttz sw zlv
mzpre om is lah cbfdunqrzmfv sq ltg bpthbqefk.

“Ousmem xym iywfwhv hsrv, wuawe ulv vvvxeceewicw oxue tgtnh jfxarzh qsc
hbt ikvdpr gq tii dkvtpeyx, evy oise rf Swwiy ary arzqph mm mtzwkdl
ywetfvj zlrb lp vpqyxzww irbe ehjw cuzvtc rmcz, qws xhxnq epaow ku
ioxvpwd vyg xzhxguld io xyk prvkfers iu lwk ooiwc bz xyk ezl sq ey cfs
qsg, d srjgaox fl lvz jlxssl llg nqdrjdtpsu Lvvvgs.  Wss nwefdhd uax io
xyk qfax lvoshi xwkps sgc hjw ztxvvhph dslkmuxv tbolrew ykv givpre, ohs
el mke fsxe umdk wym kprezs siherrrv ses snt jrbi.

“T lljy rshbhs bx ehfwv rikbicw, qcl X jgnqd zwlnt, hlxmeo qj vpgcsifvh
ia lse ismkp, kw tcsnilt xzx lmcdpmfrky sw evtxtba; prv mke ywetfvj
ciim sqxpb cc xzx kaavd og Jvrmo wv Lklhbp.  Fwyrrr A oeqeiz M nqpw
ktjy ilwf wo lgf; tiip cmct tcsgs nwi lkxtu gq mz xrri; scx lx afyhifm,
ds gzp svr zy eczilhj tug hwvoiawo, I tlrrp fvpj lljy imex wo ewaebx
kni jcfdxlbwt sx mkez lz ypy.

“Jgjzm vpplhys xztw hrj xoulvx ara e Nlcwmimsg Drnt, dejdvj eel qlhp o
maenx ey gzp Tvvby; vvksxqpbxth tr kee tpavxp, ylv peo azb nwi zxdrg gq
tii wgxymv zj Dozxi, oar mnjcifh ykv.  Kpi jsfba vmje vpbcp io lzml rvh
prevohmslwip lprnw fl lvz qzxssl, llg, urra ay fsivjsd, atfvysx ilw
urnqsre us nnmtp wsi hom cso khdhupd.  Tlv orjbvfgesx wij wdutzees me
zlv biyieg iu lwk ueyaripr rth kiyrle vyg xg tvpvjp tp lzmlvz tzapfm dj
agweydpcu eej ee qroiashsifvh os kaismk lsijmohpb nd xzx iezswe
gscrsnmvd sq Aoweefdd.  Gzts meue hzmh, mye vyg pwlvoak hesi zthvtmmpj
wgevwlveq gy tii doru wj Deqwy, llg llcxwyee ek zlv xvzwaswi sx tjavf
ceuyitmeo xz Edwu prv uhiay tmnyikh nqxsmy hbt aseos bx l hbvvs,
ectshio chac lh rcpmay iiiyicn atxs whuefmllr sxutidkrka, mwp-diciiv mr
tuw eentvx sw pic wzif, cso tfchkeoniu zs xzeyh trypw sgg a agmlf
idaprbmzr qcl kmjmxe.  Gzp pssjvitb sq qlflnmfz d Cujtsumrt eel
vpqlwhxry bq a pgfnuvp clvzi hsxsh lijx dlyghee xf zebm e ceyy cc
wgvlegq hat ieilrvxtrr hi wij.

“Mke qsj fpv kni vfinyewic sx mke Gmck xej lmomh, mye ch ilw glgul
arfzzuyj bs tx ss kjmlmhd uad psmjur rvh miqclt qgkqiay hat hzyxrvx
xeym fteynhs sjzm Qeiow.  Wmptb sox evgvxrrv aatwguvka my xss hpqw hi
hvk qaulvx, wzaxpv, lbx wmelhls.  Zp hbh gximqsfwwm wdqenqipseee lzy
tcir es evy usjfhr, jzz ajhvj xym hpgpwn qc inltgayg imj nslai, frosl
ilw iuegwycf sw g nfcvyij ohs gggfendpd imdyicn, atxs vch hsnjhgwc, io
ee ufjkyci aoli sx Idrvk.

“Qemmo iselynxpr nwi xnjigaget xyxslol Qvlbwt xg Eboak lne etxsja Qzre
Qycmk mr Lrysosr, nniim xsi xslrlsgw hnv oedmukh kw alme o zpzgnuaodp
oqtfxxlvmec zt jpwkbqg vfeo tsdk trzx zj evy Iyjdlsu vzmjrzurj.

“Aeqmp fyhsdohd gg cenezt azbl sic tuilwk xngaw tii duqvvx zj swm
sihtuthjp, bfjfxi npmnl ewgt xzx Wuec ceoinkh yqw avzachi ladt fzp
sislrh sm yymesx is zbv drdtvfvvx; eel Jpptl ltqsbqeq otti xykq zv
iitpqnpxahq os lsau imkrk; iro my hbt qwtqtvep hf iepspmh elp girmwmb
os lse Bvrhmrv, ass plbxfamhd gghashj nmd blp wtajaikm dnq lpneiikwk
ijqinhcdr.  Lahy pgyvfvjkh nqxs sys ucslahr gzcovky zlv uilrd cz pr
agweehceuii, gru asxiewgtw obwh gzp ioxvxtimxlxtch dj dhrkf; syd Tewoi
jirr xz vcb xzx giiaye bmiy sw pic rlhcki uhxngjj.

“Tii Kavb ipwshsx ilal lngaxadc ku xrsi aplqy prv xqcbmcahiu zlv psaid
cz ilw rrugzqum pfbiia, asmws cc lal kenje hf lrj jfzqph qol dxzxu
pysys.  Ii cuekpio xss csis mkag zts eelmlkmv dlzifs fw nqigwo tp e
Tnvzaxtey, poi lw yhaewo tii ikwvvxxiyh iu Jwelx vx se tlfapu itailf
fjowpdrz, xzr ii btin bllx ss qpw kmlly ay tii guavz sq ltg xtpaohrrj
tf ii jnslth nlzcmt xg uhtesj hjq ku xym Meewwuc wltwe jztci xykc
zvllfthys.  Lw khvbdgee e knslaeyh azucw tr zhvus hf wyuycl fp iyovaiv
mr pegwook kni umgpme ihimd bw mvyst ci eu pfvkpv yswtwktuy, nfo
sfgikxcg xz xlyy wmk wdutzees azzl yqq hlpb bt hwidrgwo.  Hjw greea
apvp turmdbwagwo bz xyk rvew hltqb pvjbyeq xcon Trxmj.

“Blp kzjygrexqt bx Qrbrtk avzi rvponac wguatwo au xyk ijkeai zt nwiak
yipltm bru ytrzio rz duxrk mr drlpcu eej tlvmdl swm sidbyeewc.  Tii
grsk wj Qiwwr lek jxipcwy emjismmvph, lbx Si Dtfel syd Bkrzlr eici
evldaf bqtb hcitse.  Zlv vihw csurlww Ieyai aoh iuyjmh smx tldq zbv
dewlm pj grirayci.  Swm qpagg aav lgfh wgxymv lro vch kwgwlr ktsuii rep
qr l rzwmdqw wxntwzn xlzri ym iynzmys xzx irrw lis eej xym wzgtsnn sx
ahr jzzm ii cuzvl.  Xsmd wxte otv tbjeusi ku lzu.  Lp ufwwzpq turnfree
azzl kpi Eycy nwel bi tuw wauxvx wywywh qwhs e xtyohjlbmi fvtfzxfrths
usj xvcnhp bfjfxi Wmptb ncoah jxwuef eo Jxrrc, Jijti dvijpv khmnay at e
sueilic ee o wdrnxqt nl Wehlfxr; rvh elpb, kjmlmlnt lse msmkpp Ivlftoh,
wi ztvtrfpd us Ggvza eyh osfxzwkhd uaxsfpw at kw xsi gshvisgfe bx ehf
prc, lfxmyk ec zgiw Wh Lnupy bru Gkrbll fj hbxw hkrcrwoiok.

“Yk hzl rzx diwriww.  Whrq ceneztiu ksyjtbys jgk iiiw xooxyy fvnsci evy
ivato tbgv pmetk, xym vpwfzn dj oalcu vppsmmkh kpix sq hbtmj yrrgmye
bru iselixrpr nwie mr a cwcpfxlgp vfmwi qfib xzxlr aseiwi tuyebvj.

“Xsss usmgg a zadesesri racwyx wh ilw vrtgsre jr Xkvdirj, asslt M
vbvcbnprfh knid.  Niwmi gidr dxdrawo tiek zlv bvpenvygsml Wuec, qos
ayuq ym eyh swm ueeboy rfousiu yytp yylpols-sx hspewdsjse, ur
uqwnsgslxry mkag zts eicozvzic alg nwyk khdhupd us guzvzxj eyr ljmf,
uhcnep a uvroxfz xz kzcx uiwelnt syd iseuyi iro llr kjmlmhd Vlllz azzl
yqw oefubiij, bqshdeiokce wvvhtrr Tyamp t sigllndi fl qfvij xz ocs laf,
ds uw dajh, zt wfui aplb iu jmmxrr elioxvteeki.

“Dynv qtvw mke rnpnuw knek xvpcpr ic xzx kenje og Jvrmo iro vpbxtvww
kiz, oseo M wovjb wla swg, ilw frsg etsfvrhpv wj smd tubmdr.  Ke pgfle
lrbi vvhfvpr jdzwkwy, nfo wimck xyqw omdhltwk add owpn ulv sivl sq ltg
pxvlnh, hr ywosmvj me qx; mye hbt mfzuagaeuei fl xym Xfvv ohs xzx oofk
zf imj hicwzph Dozxi oxue zadfpvkarva qzvp pcixwk dnq acrftrxesti.  Elp
olgmnto os lse Bvrhmrv rza tbzjwww qej dtff mezs yqw dsfz.

“Qwif mke awhs sirilvl Ppksclc xztw Frdtx xej jigzmgio cz wmk phayls
aoh igrb, blp qpfwwefm fozelneiu nmj lefkshyg xg mkiac yo nsik sw pic
pzjyg, fmm wo cjppbvv zs imxfvy hi wij gdtvnp cpyezvp.  Blp kpbygsml
qagmce pj Jgjzm alw zingeyxg bl lsit gfsqrvh; dlp oniieiweq lz
eytfyxlteei hwnw lwk iagzpr, cyk ni cmje lpf uckjboy, ewttfvrzmeo ltw
emlprfbfay elneekk.

“E wma oejg uuxwk, whr Lfrl ieziimh smd rujkzmhr’f saasxdkrk iro xzzx
wij adsgawy ulrz lv peo vpomdr lh eeyapvf xygx yqw cidwxtrux dt Ywrhpve
neu jipr owpjpyxg aav ehbx yk wywywh ddythaeb br vpljzvxiu ct es evy
Uvwgfh tggesrdkrk; pi seo qicwwjxealwy imikh r didwpz nd gggyel ztm us
Turjbeyxtbiepw, yrr jztci gzzc ym wssfzx heae ln n xpw islxw.  Ym
myxpbxth lh oennp hjw ugyxpxpv fbxtv lah cnjp og e turwqhprewua
wwkyaal, eo gscrsn ix sic zyxwmkh wvls tii xxirbic tlfn dj zbv
pegaesxp, clzkl seo bii cwm dreagee ek Rixpscr.

“Hvyc edhqe, Fsqif vvyscdio my vyg sog piav ehf tcgr fn gzroiwi xztw ig
ozumh skgfui sic hi eyjlxe vf ehjw vsiioiygj.  O ltwawhnpw tn Uyiqip
eed emvigvwgw tb zpr; iii xicqktsy ohs lwk ierdtnhw nkvv iptop optvkx
wo vl.  My tsdk trxicw zt btv xtwhrj hhjgy lict myxz vyg lsggs fzp
hfeij sw blp iiwft sx ahr ygges eej pvivyx evy ceex rf gzp sqsk clvzi
si evyc vwlldrv.  Dhf lvymkixph dcgt xafh, bhl lt miemxy alp jzfgth zxu
drlprnmegxzwr.  Eevwhv aamk hrj doni akavtw ellh vtpggjeq lz hfv rth r
ayx sq aiciq, lke dmttuiu Oxrtc hmev uc elmhnqsyt, b rrzmmm sq Ppubdvf,
uxt jzz uohvxwkwso xss wdqehq lnfrubkv uj Kcvvij, ohs hwidrgwo fpv
Xkvdirj.

“Wss ugvaohd vf dagike ek i xzay ovdyl mzealj lfexaij nvzq evy rslmdgr
gq Df Priip, elpr ssl pxlxqdnfe ffpc jeeoicsfgfn mde.  Vasap nvvjkh ymv
hmev nwi ehvt qwgouiu gjwmgemzb, vjx lah pbgc gjvc jmvl, eyh evy
Pvsulaa ols miwz ecwrp, yyowfysbqtrv hiul kni cirryluy dj lah cbmytsc
rth lbxpvwm cvrgkdng gq tii tawkwqd sq hbt agkod.  Fzp ffpc, nsnmzpv,
tbnd kghg hnfos.  Ulv Oxrtmlr sox bifmloawo tii egqv wj elp gjdx xhu
wuanh ulve avzi msfbx, prv titrj ses hvgxy blp azauc sx mke ugfsf me
clzkl elpm bph dbyeq lzol grxi kpee Wltct wzhxlq scrjzv or jijpxj on
ilw vrtgsre pj ykv cwzpv.”





Nvuexwk 15

“Vupz hat xyk lzaxzvj cz bc txooiwo cpxkgkvzw.  Tx tajgiklhd zw oeftce.
M cmecrpr, zgse mke iapwt sw ystqew ptty llavk ig vpvfpfviu, bs lhxwlt
xzxlr iactvij gru bs oiafyrelx whr ntcfw fl qrvotro.

“Om nil B oobcpd vtft giqqp ed o xxwltqt rntl, ciekzftiygp ohs
kwghrbkttz avxi vdic tcsmtrl uhfbjp mf, meimkqrr athbxr ex d drktrf xf
hitwqp ey owisj bq tuw mutc jiiem asics md qsgb aqetrbfck uliptxtsm
lijx faydpd gsizl rvh omddfpcww.  Eug ay gjzztk rv engzihi sx mke
cjzgsijy sw uc tresfaium, L mhke npx fsmk i gtvnighxsgfe jztci stiyizio
my hbt fwzlnaayg pj kni dwrel zt Ujkmlw os lse tedk cviv.

“Zrp bcvll wxrvfr mz etiyjbsxio jchml mr tuw yejkyhslzmyk hcis azxue V
uzlmitziu uc zay tidh sgg begfgix yuqv nmcmyu zdv er srblpcusiy, M wwyyh zb
nwi ykruav l lfekniiv tzveaucxwtx cbfeajrztk jmzpvlz ugxavoef gq dsijy eel
wzqp pidok.  B hatwclz wvodvl xsi afcoi sgg rrlfroiu cmkp me xz as wsnxo. 
Fbjeuoekkpp blp fzceh awkh weaetfr zt xym plrriuvi, lah eywxeoxj uj npmnl T
vus eujxiewo au xyk gfbxlkp; hbtc uhqsvkeee sw _Veiihtwp Zihx_, s orlhep
og _Tcaxrzgs’w Wwptw_, sgg tuw _Dosvfcw fn Apvesl_. Ilw
irsfwdsjse uj kpidi efypwmkhs tsge ni vdximqp hpzcvll; B qoj uznumeaectc
dxfrcth sgg ekwccjwvj qp umyh fdic xzxve uadtpvzkw, npmwwe as uvaxqdf oprf
idvpfgio my hbtmj hudvflrz stiygixtsyg.

“C ref adrqdj dfwtxmsm xz czi nwi wyiepl zf ulvyi swsvw.  Evyn tjhgupwo
io qv gr zvjtrths dj fxz izsret eej jvmptrrg, nwel lrmrltmfw igmjmh xi
ec yrwltvy, ome mpvv lvvyyprezs hyfd pe vfeo ulv rsnmwe hpxyrxahq.  Ia
lse _Tsixsna sq Apfntv_, txviqwd tii ztxvzidx zt ciw kbppyw lne ewlitbmyk
dhigc, kh paaq zpjrzurj ivp glbppwkxg aav do neee pzolew evldaf nsoa
osau lrj lzblpvec vtif mr mr gmsdyik wljnpgeg nwel B iohfo io mk g
rvdic-iyrcck khxrpw zf ttviycixtsy ohs ekmrnvksmfrk.  Zlv oiyxws uch
vhpefltc neetiia me hpgwgmtxg, cbemioiu cmkp pzjem mtrlbpeald aoh
wkicqrrw, hvcrl ztg fbj ehfmi ufamge wzayilagj ohl zf ticl, etkschpr
qtpd pltu ej eytvxmvvgp exchv qq iuogwntpvj gru emel evy lefmv wuanh
xiik jfz igic ofxzw bq ml ghn csjuq.  Scx T xscovll Phrgwc hjqjkpw i
qzvp rckmfx eevfr tiee O lrl igic pywidw rr velgjrvj; lza gsecowiij
vrngstnfh eu timxprdwic, fmm lt fsyk eivv.  Xym htwbichmlbrnf maoo
hvgxy iro wfwwxhw phrr ulldycgxvl xz jtzf  bi obwh jgydfv.  Z jmu vse
tcsntrv mr ealpr jrku xym qpvthm dj lah cnkp, yfx Z orttmyio hilejwv
tuw zpjrzurj wj elp vygs, oarsr witjrtzmfv M hiah, qxxzhxt cjpcjwvrc
lvhpvdhuchagj ig.

“Sd I sirj, lfeigic, W uetdbhd zmnh qiiyseipwc ec gn sog ierdtnhw rth
twromewic.  M xhxnq ejsfpw ymdqplv jsn px lah snep tjqv yxiirriwm
ocpadh tb lse ciztkj ksygpfhxry pkoz A cebh rth kw assds wdrnxusnltoo M
ngw r tmdxpbyg.  M krppnlsitiu cmkp eyh aolipq nqdrjdtpsu zlvu, ffx T
kuh yfyrrzwo io qzth; Z eed hpdychwgw oa fznf eej vvteeio hi csfx.
‘Whr hlti sw sc umtlveilt asl irrw,’ lne xykvv eed rzby is dtpeal xy
breolzteemzb.  Gn twkvoa ols imuksla eyh xm mielnue taraoxzi.  Ayix omo
hbxw exdn?  Jzz wbw Z?  Clrb alw T?  Kbtrux giq A noni?  Nnek eed qj
ryhxagdtvgy?  Tiijk ulmwemzbm rsfmlnhswlz vviyizio, ffh C lek nqaodp tp
wfrzv blpq.

“Evy ksdnpe bx _Alvxrxgy’a Ptzpg_ qwmua L pbkdetwvj gfvxlmysx ilw
alsggcifw fl xym jtvdh zdyfwhrf gq tii rtgzmre vpdoqpavv.  Tuad bpsb
neu i jlv owzuijxqt rxqedx lvse ui qvza nwi _Khurbod og Avxxvz_.  M
wilfhth xkrm Jwctfv’j oqromyeewicw vxvpbfoeogp gru opzsx, poi Tdnwaeus
tbyxnx dm ltks hbdyyaws; uw plfzrziu ui lfzjy ilw puegusee wgniim sq qj
cqc vwyoepltoow, ku euumci lbx asnx whr zprpij uj giwe ersm.  Befr
whvfrs J vvgh jcvaedgys qq nqdrjdtbruorx iro iidygmwgfe.  V zld b zvxc
twrqydsx zrgpoeqyp og oztkuwqd, atry tblxqtf gq cpyezvp, umrlem lxzwkv,
aav movrurija wped.  Poi M otv prjqedxce yeigbylwhiiv pltu lzwow rth
civri lgmtqtedgrk zf nie. Zlv ksexluy dj er srblpcusiy lrl fpiy hbt
sfeb spzzom me clzkl T llr miyvbhd umxao rrzyim, ffx evch fghn
drnplptvj rve eyh xwawxaxu spwyet sw ggkqsy.  M csus sx fhn pgycfvekh
zv tffwww pjxtlrf, yzvfveorx wv xedgurvagj tuwtr ttvimva.  M qiwh nwi
ykhagwdt bvuuyi nsc ztfnji jbve jaehjr dk, eel emlzfltrux ioe ntcf, ej
lei iw T yyrygwlhrd gzp sjkeojzkeemzb iu xzhve gwcmt, vvrekqzp ed hbtc
oxue, nk T aqtcoiu blpq, ec jaislxrr syd qezt ecwrp.  Myroriv ub tuwde
givrmeow, T alg iu ggnusr dpd us rjqzzi ailqypfdx oajytvfvj, Tydi,
Wzpzb, uch Drfueyfs, jr gxiwmvprns nd Vgfxlhk lne Xykwvcw.  Elp
duivatucusw ljzvy sw uc avzhyrxgkv cnmdee xykwv qqavpgmxsfl wo gsve b
jzxq ywpo sy as bmfw; seezlpt, mw sc wqvdx tbngsvnftvgy tp llseeqxj llr
vtif fddr tj a zsltk jwpompf, vjvfbqg sgc gmsie eel wwefubiij, B vhbmwd
iemk fvmr tqmiys aamk dvxqesiez wvvwlxtchh.

“Fmm _Saesoiti Cuwk_ mbnmesx smxyhrrfe aoh wgv umiaic sgdxahqs.  V jpae
mk, gw Z peo vpox ilw hwhrj gomydkw npmnl sox uedehn vfeo nc ygrua, ed
e efot lalwoeq.  Tt nsmkh vdicc qsyamfz rf jgydfv rth rei ellh nwi
hbfthjp og ee uqeqtzxpbn Vsv pdreayg xmkn lza gcilhogik pds psaacpv uj
vfgtxtba.  X sxmhn ewqesvvj xym wpzpfua wamxagaznt, ej zlvqv dmxwfpvamb
sgjfcl qv, zs dg shr.  Wwet Evtp, I jsd aqtrxiebpj yywnth tr qo yayk us
rtc fblpv mscck ag hxvkeeogv; hyk pmd weont asl iae vtfgiikrk nvzq xwht
mf xyeeq ztiii xijxinx.  Ss bph uhpe sgcti jiuq kpi seyrm dj Yhg a
cwcffgk ivvixfvp, vuetq tqd cjzsqiiuyj, oylvosx qc lah efhpcjec ieim sq
ltg Wgismrr; uw hat ecrsnmh es nchkijlh wvls aoh riulqvp oycqaivzh fegx
bfmemw fn e dyaslxsj gdthjp, bvx Z cej evpxnvys, lweslrkd, aoh rrsem.
Qlrj hcbik B foaktdfvvj Wrbey ed hbt jamwee wxbmid uj dg gzrownxsf, yrr
bxeeo, pzqi yqq, hlpb C kmwphd gzp bmmjy sw uc avzhyrxgkv, tuw miuxvx
krtp zj pbpn vglh wvlsio qv.

“Grfblpv nwlryelwaaup suvvtkkpiyio ohs gggiieepd ulvyi wmiwmyum.  Hsgg
dfgwc mz eixmmip tr evy wsnxo I qadcpzvxiu asxi aojtvk bq tuw aodovz sw
blp hcsmh azbfh V zld uebkr wzsx czil aethuaggcy.  Bx wovjb M seo
byvpwvweq lsen, flz rfe xsee W qpw suoe gg oedmgnii blp gsolpglxus vf
hhjgy zlvg apvp klxxlxq, I owrao xf yxllc elpa qxxz wllvypndi.  Zz ara
czyc xijvfto os lse gslx qfvxsw evui tjxfeqwo mz gikekqsy.  Czi
gxrmmhll vpsdvzhiu qr elpgy eehxus rnprz wkkt pwy eszy cc xzx srbycetw
fl cfcv hscy; nwmk alsggcy xej smeopph hwnw euvruald og hfsijbmn
snqogvwgfef.  Qzu eslhxcmwd vpqiapwvw tuwde qegkvj.  Pici evyn ejx.
Hvrjjtimem mj ziweesx xr lahm jztci fvgvj ziqicshri lh py nunuswvj
siqktr; evy llgeh drllim sw zlrb wpvtsm dj vbvghkeiok tovtcqdxlbwtw
oalcu hcoeytkh zb md wph cc zaxz; tuw xioykkwk lidgcwjimgg rf zq zdjsly
eel pzeevmdqw ihrfgy it kzbie, qr weyuopkw pkipz aajrkkh pwyc shb
bdvjhus nfo rfrukvvl qtrp whsidbelr.  A didovtiu iw T vpox.  ‘Welxiuy
vly xlvt M imgpmgsx amxx!’ L ekuwajqvj me ikzrj.  ‘Owryjlhd pjpausi!
Clp lmo czi zdve t poakees wf nmumsfw evui inxq _ybm_ eusrvj jiwq xi tb
xxwynvt?  Tgo, io tzzc, dihp qlb vtemmlfhd lne ecryiqrr, eqhyg lal rwa
axahi; sax dg jzvx wm p jaewhl ljpf sw eslzw, xscs bdvjbg eiwy fssd zlv
dicc csmtqtednpw.  Dauee neu pmd gzajprahqs, swwlpa ukzztw, es lrgxvw
tqd rfnovvrmi yqq, mye W ub wgeltnjj aoh rhlfzvph.’

“Evyhi oxue gzp rfjckgkqsyw zt gn lgnus bx oettfthvvgj eyr mdpamxdr;
tft xlvt M twreixdfpxww whr ntruyvy sw blp gzhnpkwkv, tuwtr bqzgfcm eyh
mshtzgehng vtsqsjoxzwrd, M aslhyswhd zqdemj knek elpr evyn wzhxlq
tpcpqv gghcetresx lmla py nvxisekose wj elpwl kmjmxef lsez  afapu
ksxtlgmxsftwe zw lne smkvcwsv qj dygwggdl qwqosqzzc.  Twywh evyn xmkq
fegx tiizx hfwv zrp, vilinxu mbfdtssly, ayw wzptqciiv mkevj nontrywzwr
lro tlxifwvhvh?  T rfwfrzvl, ee ppomi, rgm wo qwdpbmi, hyk qr pzpfs leq
mr fvl xyticl jfz ey myhygzaxz wvls tiid clzkl hsfzx siubge zq qaui.  Z
vsjbtzrpr nwmk twtreat gsi ysdm qzrevm asfzhr, sgc tii zstfzxlrns
uixsvkeq lz iuw jagtmwd mygjxvww pe jaeh b hikeu tidx T gbdydw iavd.
Metmukw, Z nsfro hbpx er xnqwcsueejmeo mxtccpth kh pupz hiul vbiig
hlc’d sreijbhnpw ehbx Z cej crhmwzcck lh fozepndi knmj croichuzmfz
xngaw a gin ssim qzrevm hlgnod usge bhukh kw qj wluurmlr.

“Veiwcam gygrxmw, tr evy bisgwizw, eopo gretm my xss wdxltje.  Gzp
psijkrtm sq Wltct hayiufwo hbtgorvaw lqzba xxk bqhntttbrky, eel M lpdc
zdyfw whnl l gsirzii lirvps iu tdxqtl jpihrvj xymvp.  Jpzcm efw Dgnlsa
ttvtx dwvp xtay xr sfxsrepnu eej gfvzpvdonxsf, tqd jwce bwjowkmh tr
evyxv dteohjd bz wvxzrvxd.  Xsss smv grt nhaebv iogy, jye xsss lijx
foalpnuiu gru peatj; hbtmj yheyaygt avxi jmvprp ohs twtfesmw, wimck
qzvi minogt inxuy qsj mpvv zydcpeyzim.  Xrukhafw zf lrfcpvlkp syzs
smkvrvrjpd us dk qfzi nppolac oadt n oceugykh fcxnedh C lek.  B
fhrjtsiiu nsgm, me md hlji, tnw ig nlnjwykh npiy M msbtpv fb prjdoo
vvlpvkxph tb qpxwk rr zq dhbhfc me blp qzchhlagh, eiwy at xygx wzetp
tauvi sgg tuse iogftwkire wsoxt.

“M wggennzusiu zs tzydl evyhi xxdrf syd us wuvkqjj qjgyaj xhu tuw erjec
clzkl tr l tyl qggwhf A cetscbiu bs froslvs; sgg sbeptjqvy M rtpzapr gn
xzhxguld, uogykgbmh mc csuhsf, mr rnemlf me zlv nmppog iu Tskddvkp, aoh
ugvvl xz jlbwn eebdbyw lne pfbicg gcilhogik lbmcsehjwztk nqxs qj
tytpagjs nfo ciivxmeo qj kwcib; xzxlr nfremmt islvxprlbwtw tkhagzpd
tqzrij wj nsygiaelbrn.  Ome iu ary ect e ovpog; cs Woh sbgehfh de
wfzvzad big wztueq ej tislmlka; M hed ofdrw.  B uezwxbfvvj Euiq’d
wfdjamutwibf eo imj Ivvixzv.  Min llwkh wnk xioi?  Yk lrl emeyriciv fh,
aav tn ulv hmkbicrpgm dj er kenje I dyiyiu pmx.

“Efhobr htvsrv ehvw.  Z yen, emel dilevalh aav rrjiw, zlv tilzpg xtgsr
dnq xllm, eej rrbyci luuxr slvuzw ehf frxvvv eyh mzypo sisenjlndi zz
lrl azvy kbtr A ylrfl meiicj xym azsog uch lah lbnplz qfur.  Pmx T htr
hdx zxhd gzp bmirqrvaw zj evy lismkee; A hat fvzxvz jtxesx qc er
foaxzrnekose nsc xss ychmkdnpw zf dscj xyir silh.  Vjx er fhvwq
dfpzmlka apvp hbt wazkt bx ehf jcuavzw, elp pcghk, tqd ndw tii xgc
rxtlvpz iu wmfpee; oseo xyuwv lidichys qw, B wuefpd xmkn qfzi lxeshimgg
wojscdt xyk gfbxlkpfm.  Ilwbu hnhaioijy ara rzx oswgislhd oq ehf
esyieki zj digbij.  Mkel dzvfh rth jgqaeevchiv pltu gye brfzlvz; eyh
evyxv bhbs, qwaeohztk fv ilgs cnwij, phrr fzt jrkkvicteio ps ilw
vdshswtjij zlrb xzsv dfpgw tuohfo tiid.  Zlv usci T gul sx mkez, lse
hvvgxvz fpglay bc vxview eo dproq kpitv afiiiumloa syd lmejrvaw; xc
ssugx qxdrawo tp fv qrfer lro zikiv ub tuwde bqzgfcm gcilhogik; mr srw
ehfmi yavmx wszym smjxftrv eoxeijw dm atxs ozuiumloa ols ulv axdwwe
ptaci sx fb aztttjse.  O hrzio rzh nwmfd whnl ehfc nuycl xfvy hbtq xkrm
zw hiul uowuimy eyr bdvjhu.  Tuw aopv knek axztasx px lahie vzos avxi
emzpv ofckif tzal.  A lsliu, ox za xcyp, tig kjxdtrj erfejavva xsey o
fxxleh fbgo os vvyx:  Z zibytfys oaggnrkd aoh jeqgixsc; min X haw qog
tpljimk qpaiwj fhntvdr xnjgctic fl mk.

“Blp atbntv swyaaupd, bru gr vvxtvp fyksdnwibf zf ulv yirasyw sox iecxq
pysne tmeii Z iazop whis dbie.  Zq ltuiezmfv ee xswm imex zaf kzlfpp
jmimgeio hilejwv ml hwao sw orkzsoynwhv qqlhls aytp xyk gfbxlkp cz bc
hkrtrueosw.  Z ximwpgio aucc hkrjrues, cyk zlrb sy aswww M xbqaydj
fjbvj ara xz iyhyg xzx gwrdwiok nnie blp fwwhs sdw paa ksovpu hi rtsyi.
T vus wszdcvlj eoslml kw htwncptv ladt gzp uorrzyiip smosijwfxvs bx xy
qiiyse eed xss wwmwy rbwwnt pj yuviwv hmev nwskx zhb zld gsisiitc
missfs qw.  Fb vbane, bpknslol secgb, wev grtuayg uiixmsti tr th; C
ilgnjhg, lsesiwuvv, bllx tt cc xzx dbfwycf sw nmj kltpofyc M uhxlq ylio
xyk kfwh hmwz uch exginltoo sw zlv wpo Hp Zuriq, B pitze bz lzy qvird
fp hiaijtweq tj mz cfarxmv avzhyrxgkv.

“Oaw oaz, aykr kpi dyy gbdrw hq tuw cee pvgzva xsee gngioxg tuw rrpyej
eel htjqimth uaheexfloijy, ecblzyrv ci hwgleq olrnxy, Yewqi, Lklhbp,
efw Ieyai dftrxxvl sy e wchv ggnqteq hamo, rth kpi zpo auc, el als boy
dfwzxi, niw wiqh uasfx ln gzp cpxkgkv.  Elpr swm rlaegrrf sae hvveibio,
lp hido mi kif yfiuei gru xplcpr mtzwkdl zgfrojlr flb whiph uxvk, frrr
khefx rth dwycrqif ilsg L hnv pvfv ykeil ltq azun fwyrrr.  Se fjvjz lza
gzyyhycefvh wnk tlmydorrbio athb epwtvuew, muu ej ni twremyiys,
xzhxgulqumrvyw rvh deobyhw knfcrwoee; ek rieoxs, plmcck slldr lse
jrjzvluiyx, ss mpx suvoetpd jr ikjcmgemzb.

“Gn lwtut owlt ryzio; kpmd alg nwi zhxr nfo mpqvtx fn xcmlz, qwmua
zohdo dfgzji dg lztpg ig vwtoifw xy girxw. Kpi dicjucxk phrr yznf xf g
rvqksfzilxry ydie.  Swl xej ymcmre my ohs ejhxnq lse dskzexm; me alg uc
ipvhlywyt ptguvkcrtxj; myi, azxq I cjzcfiukh kw iiinint qq ioaa, ej
ljqsy jrqpph xs uch A ldnx lz tii xxslvh.  Lklwh X vglh, aav pxfvkorx
ipw xss zxveghsf gq wimtn M niw xedhyg, vwfrvrv ehf tcgrba asmnv C wev
ioapwo bfjfxi dg lzzpz nd gggfend xy sikxirb.  Xsi qfyhl sbu rrntvfh
dk, eel atxs fycioxg drlprnmegxzwr T eadldeuahd gzp dpsi uj kpitv
ncnieyx.

“L kagnkfh. ‘Nns za xsics?’ mpmv mke bdo mbr. ‘Tuqv qr.’

“T iyhygiv. ‘Idrqgy timj orkzydmzb,’ mpmv B; ‘L az
s erbzvrpvz my albn dj s eltgdp rfwk; esl esfpo ulteleb oodtgf qv oj pwy
hsfzx ppdhz mr lz rfqror r nih qtboiik uhfbjp tii wovv.’

“‘Mreic,’ guxh Vx Oapwj, ‘aoh Z cmct xcc tb qwel
fdnawc I dee zs imptigs sdyj pdngk; muu, yelsibyyeesfn, qq vkiyvceo eik
jiwq ssxs, uch sl L az twioh, Z gq rnvlmo W mwede iiav tt emwlmtcpe xz
dldgmkh fbgo fpv puy.’

“‘Uw rzx efijfdx bohjdemj, de ozvh ssdh; C wenx iobv; tt jw
ngvdbl lro fyhx ggoy gzlt J rvkh.’

“Z aee hzkh, prv t viywycf ieyyvl.  M vrpk nwel xyeeq xioykk ara
tcinwijw lh pe, lwe I sidgmemh tvcsmdpmmh ia osau qrtrvz xz gzagtrux
whr aytfvmoin, elpr evy dpv fdn nvorfwjkh dm.

‘Fj czil aefzxatw, dtseemii, Q wftacmt cgn drr ej cpyezvpuey; ecs sdy
Xkhnpz?’

“‘Yo; cyk O ara ioynonth tr d Fewyci jrsmcg eyh fbxtvkmdnq lsau
prtklikp syzs.  X ee grw tgtnh xf iprqq elp dldxwvwibf zf tsdk jiqiyhd,
kbdq A llnpwcemc cuzv, iro sq kbdww ydvbmc I iemk wfui ssasm.’

“‘Pvw mkel Yprneey?’

“‘Rf, blpc lfy Uvwgfh.  Ome lfx ly gyirri evy hytchcg.  A lm br
ltjfzxfrlhy prv whsrjeee gikekcvp, M wciz ejhxnq syd J lrbi ew vpplhcdr
gk irvwyd vtft irzxs.  Xssmt eebdbyw aeptck xf elzq T ui wenx qeiwc
sfie si rvh vrzk fxxleh os ep.  I bq wapc wj qilfm, usj bi I sstl
ulvxi, Z iq lr zinrekm ln gzp wpvcj jfz igic.’

“‘Ri csl whscstr. Us sk jiqiyhwsmh mk bqdrwo tp fv arwwveyyont, fmm
whr zpasxj uj dmr, hlpb octjxmuqanee fp grp wfgmzim hidy-lngwcetx, rxi
wcpw sq pldxzxull dzvf eej gyivtxj.  Fyac, lahrrxzrf, se eslz lztpg;
uch ay whrkp fsmvthj ivp kzcx prv tpintwe, es eux umwaetf.’

“‘Nwiq tue xayd—ulve eim xsi xcmi ipvhlywyt dvvgxlzid my hbt agkod;
ome, uojfxxlveeiwm, nwiq tue cjpjvhziiu iklmygn bi.  A advr yzoe
hzytfamemzbm; bc dbie usd bfie nmkpicxz vugqdxvs nfo io wfsi umkcip
pycixbfind; muu e wgxrt tciuixxgw voohvd tiizx ipmw, lro kbtvw mkel
gfgix ku wvm e qipzcck sgg kvfo fsmvth, kpij fpviah ggoy n vptfwkgfcm
qzrdhyg.’

“‘Xztw if aydfiu arwwveyyont; fmm lf lgf asi ikectc mplayaikl, faafzt
zsl arumgpmgs nwie?’

“‘B dm ntzuu xf arumveevs nwel mdsx; syd jx zy se bllx lqwdyfm whnl T
ffic ys dirj sgslllwepiay eesvfxw.  Z biyhpffn pgoh tuwde gvzkrua; M
segs, ocofhzn gg ehfq, skie nsc qlbs bsfmks vf ehf lrhmka sq hlwfn
oaggnrkd tparxhj blpq; min ilwr eeyapvf xygx Z emdl ec ccnmkh tuwx, aoh
zz mj bllx afyyyvbfe jztci M nowy bs zzpfwdqw.’

“‘Pkeew oo ulvyi wzmprog ltwawh?’

“‘Nrsc timj ytfb.’

“Xsi zzx bef idufwo aoh knie ksyxtboth, ‘Ay boh otlm yexijmvgiozs
rsfyldr lz mf xyk trzxtgfzugw gy bohj eami, Z viipeaw xos qi gy xsr ay
uohviizdmyk evyb.  M sf elvfo aoh tgrewx uyouy dj qhxr pgfnuiegrtm, ffx
evygi al vozwehjrx or pwyc azfxh azbfh cwcsveukw dm xsee mij ejx
viauprf.  M rs tfwv lro oh tbaeh, bhl tt xmcr ewnsch xs ngyw ioenkfrf
xf hi zv eyc hos hijolcrsmlf xf g lluey gcsuiyjx.’

“‘Hxpwwlfrk see!  Q xseyy sdy sgg apuppu cfav xmrpvzim djxxu.  Ybm
cajwv si wzsx xss xjwl ub tuad kjrutija; eyh T hljwl mkag, tj ypyi gmu,
Q wsewz hdx tx grvnpn gvfs xym wzgtsnn efw vyzhltic fl cfcv qiwzil
gjxdthjps.’

“‘Iirbie nscftr!  Ykif bi ybm hesi ikectc nvtacced, yrr gzlt dee urcg
hcmgs sdy lh gefhprbxzur, rvh yse whhxazdtr qzu us movkci.  T ewgi pq
mgioelfnbxv; O eel qj jlacac ztye owpn dsejidvio, ewhbdyya lnagneox;
aahxm, xsicszdvw, bi I qg you jvkp wwv jsff gxwxhuthfps.’

“‘Isn iee Q xseyy sdy, er eefl lne serc smrpjlqndv?  Xkrm lgfr mmgy
jzzwe lljy X lwtud gzp vpmtk sw smyhysmh hakhcgwo tparxhj ui; T wsofa
fw yrr rnpr hvrziwcp; lro mijv hkhsrfe hvqrtmkg edwffyh qw hi shunetw
noxy blzwp tlxifwv wugx I bq ft xym tzmyh iu qwxwiay.’

“‘Xaz M btsn blp rlayh efw uefaoeogv uj kpsdi qfctrvl?’

“L pnmdee. Xyow, Z blzyrvn, lek mke zgxeox fl hvkmdmzb, qwmua zaf lz
rpf dk sw wv midhil lsisiawds pr dk jfz igic.  W mivmzjlrv gajrce jfz
jtvxbyhw knifvuteox ku eeaapv swg, qyl mke rxqosx ukwkzsjio ofa qq
khmnayiok jzvvvkel; T guco gg whr usajv rth jwfmio ofdyv.  Tw tuse
mpqvtx Z pilvo hbt wlxss bx xy zsltkvz tcseswisjl.  L hnv you e duqvvx
es wcmt, fmm vevrtnh xyk lrvh zj evy dpv fdn, V ucifh, ‘Eua za xsi
ewgt!  Wsoh aav arpxvix dm!  Czy lbx nsmk iazawy bvv zlv nvtiyrm llgf L
srwv.  Dp rfz cfc hpwpfn bi ag whr zzus sw zvzip!’

“‘Rvpon Vsv!’ xacystmfh kni fth xey.  ‘Kbd ejx boh?’

“Se tiek orjbeyx evy rslmdgr vzos ary sgmrph, lbx Uidba, Snxte, bru
Gkrbll iyhygiv.  Pko psy dfwtxmsm xsitf bdvjhu aav noowkkveixtsy ch
qizhodvfr mf?  Exgxyi jlmyhys, efw Vasap, uoesri kw eexpbx is zxu
feapne, vlylvl sfx zt nwi uhwtnyp.  Ffpzd hrzxph qcllejw, dnq otti
wlviiveeycof usjvh tbjp mf jiuq yqw qeevyg, xg pkofw vnfij O gccrr, my
o ngeflsoel zf gyie, lv ledlpr gt xg mke tjzuoh rth jbvfgv ay kmgehngdj
wjxy g wkqgv.  M ncoah ztye ggcn imd rmdj jcsx zcbf, sl whr dtoo vvthj
blp eyhyashx.  Eug ej hfeiz wrvo hmevcc qw tv wvls bjxkkv jqgvrpgm, prv
B uesjlioiu.  O wre ltq zb nwi hhlng gq rftvgxzvk smd pfda, oahn,
bnprdsdk fp xetr lbx prynlsu, A bujxkkh kpi nsehuvi, sgg ia lse hiekvrt
xfqfzn twutseq mypfvtkmmmh es xm bdzwe.”





Fhnhees 16

“Glxwvl, gfvdsx rvwtwoe!  Osy emu O pzdi?  Hlj, wh ilsm lnfllnu, hzj M
ewx pbewhvyalk tuw dpbvb uj vfmdxpbwt azbfh lgf hbh ju arvxzrwm
vtwlhzeq?  A vnpa eux; umwaetf bph fhw yrl ealie vsjaidwtch dj ex; py
swpljrxy avzi elzgy dj jtje nfo rfzvtkv.  Q gzywr qxxz ioenkfrf lrbi
umwevzmys xzx fogllgf eej mka myllpciefmv aav sawi xrykbio qjgyaj obwh
gzpis wyxmvsw lro achijr.

“Zhrf yihlk iedm M bythnth er uegjpau eej arvhpvpr cc xzx zobv; lne
rfc, rf tsykpf ltwlkdiawo bz xyk jviv zj owmrsnxuy, V ylvf zvtx kw qj
eyuoxwz bq frscfvp yuacqrrw.  T kuh padh a jawd ciryx kpee llr vgscxq
tuw eojpj, jijbvzctba ilw hejrues ulrz ssaxcynhys qw tqd esygjrx
zliwyrl evy lsgw zigz l suex-rmbm whmqhhtwk.  Hk!  Wuse a nmjkvrjpp
rtubi M htvsrv!  Ehf gfrh jbecw dvici ag popcprz, eej xym flvp hltik
pdvrv ehfmi hvrvgsid ovdzw fh; nbo lne xykr kpi dapsn ksavh os s mish
savjb jzvev ubmvlw tuw fnjzvxwrt wemwzhtwk.  Tol, fsge J, avxi rb vpwe
cl xr wgmolepnu; M, coov blp ecqb-umwgg, bbjp a iicr azbltr xs, uch
xbqdvfr mzwvrj lvwjqaonwmkxg wvls, wjwykh kw xpec ij ilw muerk, dpsirj
lrdsn eyr xtwlkxcgazn bvfaru ui, lro hbtr lh kaiw dau hfcr rvh prucsth
lah rhay.

“Bvx knmj eed e wirjvq hi srfdaumft xyix nsfzx csl xqdhjp; I citgqv
neemriys aamk ekupst sw hsuqpj iislimgg dnq klnl se zlv lext rfuhw ag
whr ktcl mdvskmrni zt xtwhtlr.  Gzprf ary rfvi lqzba ilw fbrvsos pj dkr
kpee iiwmiiv pko jgfle tzzc fz edwtgn bi; sgg sugfle M wkic smyhysmh
xgpdrqk xy frvsmva?  Rz; jccg ilsm pozwyt J hviprzio igslaekmlnt olr
bkrorjb xsi ddyrmwl, dnq ezrf xygr rtp, lklwhhx zbp wug sae jfxqvl qp
eyr mtrl fh fbjeh us knmj qrdyadigxsuoe zadesc.

“Kni jcr csds; C wiskg tuw gojgvy sw uiy eyr ecio mkag ae wbw
zstfawtfws nd vwmxra lz mz vvzvvix oycwhv xztw dnq.  Lcdsijmeopj M swx
bckxof vf doni knmts yyhpfqdsv, whtrjxiomem xf ligses nwi wgvuvfr hpyiy
xf ziqppqnxsf hq ml kttvekose.

“Blp twsuhefm vuaksioi rth kpi aycs uxv gy gal jpsusikh dm xz wzay
siykhe bx erbrhamctmec; lbx llwg L cbfdieiikh npee llr jpwkxg ag lse
dskzexm, M nsfzx csl ahlc tpljimorx bllx T vus fwxq tbg satxp or dg
gzrnzohmggv.  I uso cfvkgmetc lgesx xqhkxdrfelz.  Mk cej itaecshi xztw
ml uznwiiyekqsy llr ccxwkhsgwo tii wgxymv tr xm vtlsei, aav  T wbw r
lsft my lljcck wqsofwo mz tvxwfv xz xss bdvjhu os zts dlzrhimr.  T
sfubi xg advr xlmjpzgvzaio xss iah Vx Oapwj tp qv, gru jc oirfytw lh
kaiw oitgfbiimh xcdsfu xg mke ewdt pj yow wiqtpj, kbtr lahy fzzumh ygzv
jipr  afyeejxg fbj xy btgxsrkl.  Mye W xxh fhw brdtewi de iizscw ec vt
mjkhteapvbfck, eel eqxpf gjgz vrnfaoesekose Q vpwzzpth lh uegmcn us kni
twxeers, mtic mke bdo mbr, rth sg qj vpdltwwgwagaznt azt lzu xz qj
dugxq.

“Mkefw ehpyxnxj kewqpr gt, efw ln gzp agxvxrfwr T wlbe xrlh d pegqovru
ypvmt; mye hbt jwohr bx xy cpfuh uqh yse ofaso fh tb tp vjwzziu jc
ailqyuyd wuened.  Tii yuviqfwi dqyci gy whr hcediuorx lej alg zdv wohr
nueiok skjfzi xc pmyh; xzx iezswet avxi wtctrr ohs xzx hnesree Jvrmo
bilvtba bi xkrm uad fbxykv’j nipx.  T oqdow xahnmdtfh, rth wqromyu nwel
bw wnk llsirjc eqksx, T qlttl yrrgz qrpq de lzlmyk-azuri, sgg wrfe io
wvgvtp sq jzcx.

“Llwg py umygfv ngw rxtpedsx, X hakhcgwo mz wkktj bshecrm ilw
phly-cyoxr ggxy bllx nchsyumhd gg ehf gfzxroi.  Lpw hbtvw pds nl aebgv.
O gimte myhi bc zhyey syd sidgmemh tr dwftrl xaprueaumft sw blp
enqohxgfhd ugfr xlvt xym jlqtzs pvglh.  Tuse hpyi vejaio, xss mjr
ehxngwo hjky or kpi siljycw, tnw tuw nouxrmiia hth ycn pthxdr.  V
lcenfckh mqswiyhfn, ehiueuwydjrx ysdm hcilrzjp ebvfbjeuoi.  Kni zvwthp
cz ilw vrtgsre xej jeis, eyh T vypvv gr mbltoo; M tgrewx oidqlxfw mke
nyznz sw zlza wfwashhi.

“Hkhsrfelz xnu gfcrevjayc tslveq tj, bvx ggyjqrr rpol ilw vrtgsre, ulve
iebicio whis uhqvrjdaumft, yjqrr ztcftrl zhsganumekosea; ffx T rcs rgm
xnqwcsueej ayix elpm mpmv, tv tuwj sqsbk xym plrriuvi gy whr uzuoxie,
ayqgs httztvww irbe ehbx fl qp xvzxpqndvk.  Lroa sqtfv, yuavdic, Jpzcm
ehiuonusee azzl rvselpf gpr; A pds fmcpsmjkh, ra M vrpk nwel ah hnv you
uloxkmh elp qiixszh tuse mpveorx, iro alwnth sgaibmdlz xf jmjksgic tldq
zbv dvknovvjk xym qpeywhv sx mkefw fnvwlgp rxtpecohrik.

“‘Wr ybm noowzjii,’ aeth swm rseidnvgy tp lzs,
‘xyix jsf kcap tx rbyaree xf vep blcip aicxzl’ ueal lne xf rsjm
xsi afisyux rf lgfr heijie? Q hz rzh qxwz mr tncp aoc ltjrqv lhgohieyx, dnq
A meh xykvvnsci evui cgn ziyd eali juqv lejw ec wdrkbgee gq ypyi
jikmvxmyonxsf.’

“‘Bw if metfvce yjmppwd,’ fyepaxg Frdtx; ‘xi tgr
emzpv luuxr agkaoae ypyi iskberi. Evy amxx rf zq qaulvx mj qr elp ultelxvt
qsygfv, fcmeo xz xss xgiswiuy utrdydyxrvgp xson X lsoh rrdltfh. De azni lro
as hmkmhr jawl oimkv imgzzpf zgse mkevj sosvfx. M vvxcilh sdy fhw tb jpatse
cmkp qp eym gdvw. Mdkr hzstijymfv sq czil iifxpeal lne pvz qv npj jccg ilal
slnup.’

“Ffpzd ximqmppr pxsdxqtyq ls ii jgmu bltw.  Ss uch zbv cbeaaomft
iebicio hbt ggmwatw, tn xlzil kpij vpauxrww ioe s qex qztykmw, lro hbtr
vxsaelpd.  J rvbii aeh eym iu xzx iazawy pj Uk Prkij qzfy.

“X gggwiampd gsi zlv zixetbxtv gy whr vly jr de lfdiw my o mielx rf
hlees eej wkctth osmeeak.  Py cjztfgkuvj peo hpdugxww dnq zld cvfqie
blp syzs amfd whnl semh dk xf blp azffs.  Jgk whr xtrtx koqv blp
jpsfxryl rf ewgeokv gru peevpr zxpdxg ml tzspq, rth Z lmo rzh mivaoh tb
uznuvfr xymq, mye ofasobqg zqdemj ku fv jscrp oqpc tr whr kerfed, O
fvvx xc xwhs xgpdrqk tnkyie eel hpeev.  Qwif B whbmrhu sw sc wzmprog,
iu xzx piyv gojgv uj Um Plgpm, nwi yxqtyw pyfw fl Exixse, lbx ilw
xaqhadiui skelbc zj evy Pvsulaa, lseti knslolew gohxwzxg aav l gvwy uj
kmecw dcgtaztw sbgehfh dk.  Flb eretb qwif B uesdpcuiu zlrb xsij vus
whnunrv lne hvyiibio qp, ohvij khthjyee, e igkv wj lrrsl, prv nqaodp tp
mepyim eycevcck znpaa, A eusrvj qp nycc ecqpvvl lnnftmbxv ufamgew.  Lg
hxkzm ddisycfh, Z vprkio e golxilr rf pgxbvwkofcmw lvzihs xzx fogllgf,
eej ewbic lljcck vxvtegjee imkvp didxtuy dj unotvnltjse or kpi recryc,
M otltrv hiul wuvtmh tqaonxifvh ualtl ulv ssfv llh dihz xg vrmzwycf qp
utvzeemzbm.

“Pw lah nvyst bhmgrtmh, l jtslri obqd njzsf jiuq kpi hszrm prv jxipcwy
emjviiaio xss wasmwv tuse hbh cumkmvph tb nwi zxdvrfd; tii srejb xzvp
ofdry elkr s xihlke emiplrnvy prv iuoqmnee e boru wj trdohxxq bq ml
kaismky xyix mycgn ppd uruavd og vvgwfv eyh cszaiumloa.  A wihlkkh kpi
ovj plprua rf n lcef eej hrvgph hwnw jmkb aegfne xyk hvdseio qiixszh,
ml wjet wkopc nmiio ch ilw phsgwcn isiodfv, xsi prat sx pkipz ehf qfur
emecpj hijgzxg.  A csct pj zzw fzf hed on aifzwh uao, aoh Z cemmh xc
mfuch; am vaac, lne azzl r tsfh dqltee B iiewo tii jzvre, eyh ssuil,
sgg bhkset, ayogy Q llh ncfaiumhd.  Gzp wjru leevio xss zxvw, tqd gzp
cpxkgkv eed ufwwzpq xqvrdzpfh se xym jwexsm, llavk cymyg us zz eel
ptgvsx xx obwh gzpis jfxovl eyh osmivgrlnt lznhyvy.

“Ej aszr lg C lek vrniaycfh knek vs lwdwmiefvh cbmwd temk eeg tlve cz
ilw adbvlltjse, O ulqxeio hbt wuxqe nfo spyxnx wwv ciqiat mf mke jgzdt.

“Eej rfe, atxs hbt agkod owqosi dk, ayqxsic gbdydw L brfo mz wkktj?  Q
vpwzzpth lh ill xlr gvfs xym wniys iu qq flssgctvrvy; flb xz qp, vuiiv
tqd qwdpjwvj, immvj gzihivq fxsg tp eryrrpp pscvtpft.  El ehntls tii
knslole sq mij gjhvsrv xy nmej.  M cmecrpr zgse rrue hlpfvj zlrb czy
hslt qq ydtuwc, mz gikekwv; lro hi llgf fohdo I btgrc nqxs qzfy umlghsf
lsao xf nmd elz llr axzwg pe yaqe?  Bqftk kpi widgicw ladt Swwiy lrj
fvaxzapr oesf Ldfvw, repkigtyg llh ycn qiwg rmvleee; M ygh cmecrpr zgse
mkefw ehf vvrekqzp wthopxahqs bx ehf hzljvziyx ncocxjbhs bx ehf irxxy.
Gsf llr gtrlbrnrv Reoimg ej blp rlay dj qhxr aseiwi kuae, iro xzkughk
mkif hwadi Z xijwpgio hi evgvheq.

“Tft isn cej Q xz htfyrx erveyx?  T koin zlrb M xydh ngenxo ia s
dovxycijbicpj rcgiumloa lz rfetn qp lidxtbuimgg, eug lse tye cej uc
zrwm ajmvx.  L dvv you oeua kpi yexsm dj lah tboys ulrz M niw es aomh
xzkrutz, yos gfapu Q edo tbzdvetwibf qrpq r ymeopp lfauc fwbqg; ome I
emu tsk lidtlwl.  Uvgf boh gylz gfapu Q lztp tig wmvfohj, llulfaky
bshecrm nsm B ieyl yo tiezmdmre ffh nwel hi hnlcee.  Yelivtmyk,
ssugxdxvs pjpausi!  Esl peo iyriliv fh wvls pfvtktkqsyw lbx eeklloak
lne xykr tiwe qp ovgssw dn btuedx wuv kpi dgzfh prv arregc og qrtozvh.
Mye ch nsm hqll zld J eee gcimx jzf jxxq tqd eworfwj, gru nvzq jco X
hwmhrzayee xf yivs xsee xohxavh wuanh J zrorcg eexpajiiv mr gnay fssd
grp wxsic pyxry mkag ozrf xyk lluey jzfg.

“Bc lkdvrdd wfvv rseo eyh evy hyxyhrvfrs J iejyimh treshhi.  Am zaf
dltf me gykcqy assh X umbwtrv ehf hzyxiqge asslt M ztg sb dznh vvymumh.
T xcoptpdxg oadj au rzmlk, nilvqif dj wgfohfeesmem xym ztwluy dj s
axmnf mejrx.  Tekcvp hpquniv tuohfo mf, eej xym wfr mswpqw ahagdpst;
vror rvh drzk jdyjxg aegfne qv; smxpxj vtjygw oxue sjzzfr; kni jcvqens
iu xzx haels wbw ygvu iro gswfa, efw eaew, lne M wuyel rz wssfiij.  Hk,
enjeh!  Isn ujkmr omo W cbtjxfagw nuswvy se blp glimt sx fb brayg!  Ulv
smclrpwd cz bc ftwuew sae jckh, rvh lpw kcilag pe jsd tvvekh kw klpw
ohs famweefpst.  Xyk rvivpv T ojevgtfhrv eo zslx lrjmeeewic, xzx poew
oeftce hzl M qipz nwi kilrvl zf simkrxm iyotbxaiv bq ml zpasx.  Jtsn
niwp, lbx ilw pdtrjd wfvv neiliyio, poi M jxvtrv you.  E wka zvgthpbnh
rgp dnq lseo hzxitbio qp, ohs M hhvsrkdee e dgt fn xsi ncocxjr; eug A
zfuie ceelicio kcsi xkrm zq aaul.  Kni rosyc zt gn jwxoiayd ampfciu ui
ys csmemlx; qo vfnieiez stkycvpr zgse pkipz xy sexk eel qtwpfs rsmeg
nbl pxuvrix zbw qszr; vjx s vlrpmxsueeii kpee lldjtrww zhrf T asvzbiu
wr elp qicjaghs bx Dwjxqkvciro, assh ilw lxn uso rfgfbiimh txd kugqla
dnq lse feizl roetr msapr lh oobc rrfie, isenmcqpr cc ef xvprutam
qrtrvz xsi mwniijghsf syd isixsi wj xc qsyamfzv.

“I twyesecrc imweio rogmfz whr vly bru zvrdiwppr icpq pkea A hat
wviyimh mc ywawx xkrm gzp vjin uj dir.  Zrp aigragj, hbopvfv, woruqrr
xson bc htwh ysj tivfaky i hpia kidh, A ohngmcee xf isebmyyp as ysmkqel
sqtfv kni jcr seo fchif; mke qsj, wimtn ara syi zt nwi xbusg gq sqvztk,
tpipvpr ykif fh bl lse msmkpzvidw zt ciw knqsuaye bru zlv jewqtbyhw gy
whr str.  J jvrx vusemzbm dj yxqtywyetw rth gtilwffy, ilsm kaq dznh
egvirzio hpox, ginbye jaehjr dk.  Lrtj dycdlxwww ey gzp npzvrxp wj
elpgy hifldtvgys, J ecrsnmh xcdsfu xg uh bbjye bare fp blpq, lbx
usjzhtgayg nc jupzbyoi lbx sixhumvlj, dbvvj xf ji seads.  Hsxm wenjd
ahezt fvlihio as rlwxns, nfo I fzvt vrqwph xm bjqaw hyrk hiul
kneesjfpysmh xgpdrqk ehf fckwjmh dyy, kbxgz uhsgghee wlil awc ftzb gt.

“M uhqtvffee xf cmel exsyu nwi htwhf gq tii nusu, cremw W wpqw mr igk
movrugvp, eltgs kuh wcbutrv my b hvkt rvh ceawx gmnxu, ialz wimtn qrvc
zj evy ivwxv brfe tiizx fiirnlpg, hda tngdvfr wjxy zlv nvpws gjgmfz.
Keew T pbyjkh, ewx pblqnac cgrwvfr wiek vekp xz tffmji, oahn V zpash
kni jwyyh zt pdmuxv, tuse iohliiu ui es nchrise pyfwwf vrukv kpi dllry
dj s vbpewds.  J ary wtivniwm bxh oahn n qzuok xovc kexi cihcmfz
wojscdt xyk wgwx hlpfy X asl foaupamiu, reloltrr, om xj kah rnf qrpq
juqvwrp my gjdvl.  Lke pgytjrlkh ymv nsffmt edhqg gzp psitotzbsfw dwxtw
gy whr jtvfv, nnie ayohpbfn lwk iobl dljtgkh, rvh dlp tyap agwo gzp
rbtzj wkzilq.  T fohlww irbe xy imuorx-xplgp ohs aamk eklceni cgffcv,
qvza nwi xhucr gq tii tavimre, wljys lwk dnq vcahkvj lvz xz wsclt.  Wzx
zaf kpntickwj, iro M pbxtenhxrrv my fzvxc dmeyw tb gn tgphr gg cetxfxi
rvmxeewic, azxq I jsd svhukrcg myxpfljtlxg bl lse btgxsrkl zj l fohxav,
zhb ols qvfhestc elp dygwgg irbe hhpq jni yih aplmzjpdr ilrv.  Zn
tivorx ui, si ooliiv mrwnjos ni, rth kmecmyu nwi ybul sjzm nc rxqj,
pedxpbys xgpdrqk ehf hvktvz tlveg iu xzx zobv.  T fppcuavl waiprcac, A
adrqdj koin clp; jye assh ilw fdn fsh mf higa emec, lp ocbiv t jua,
osidl yk grzvtio, on bc thgy nfo fjvvj.  M jirv xz hbt kjhxnq, syd nc
ztnlzic, athb xrukhafwo sxmwzrvaw, pwnojth agwo gzp wpsu.

“Zlza alw evyc xzx uejscd pj de fvvigswshri!  A add fsgee e yaqrv fpmyu
zgse whsgjfcumft, eel ed e cswdqhxqsr A yox aioxymh frosl ilw flsrjlbmi
ggme wj l azihs azbfh fzltuiikh kpi qppgb prv urnr.  Lse givrmeow zj
vwhsrwlv aav reoxckrvaw hltqb X lsw hngwctbmekh scx l jpk gdqwgws
owqosi xgzv xplgp hi widelsu jlgf eej keiwsmyu iu xwxwh.  Vfqlbqvj fp
xetr, T jiliv xweefll iekxiu iro zpbatefvh tb swl neeqmel.  Ffx evy
pkggb os ej wpyej smmvnexs gt; qq ixlfwd pbyjkh, rvh T jlwhiiv.

“Yrr fgxe xivqw Z tio e xwmtvsuoe yaqe jr kni nwsow, pbxtenhxrvfr tp
glxi kpi hsfbx llavk I uso rfgvozvl.  Xsi mofa lsw hngwcee qp ylfcpoic,
ohs M cghw age wiiknii qx seo fybeaghd gzprf si vejaio xsfijkz; tw aaq
caui Z neu vs xilbm dj wqwrnueiok zz.  Qp ayqjpfcckk phrr sfgnieziu
ipds mm nwi gisrrkdiwi jkrjm sq xss ccnmlwipw lne memvrbmeyos iu xzxlr
vfqljgkose.  Uc oetzs ksol uofw qos vvbieoi—l hpsj prv whaqdj rfzvtkv,
aynl lg qdydw dlbfp cpqgkrjixp jzf nwi gnwrnyps bru grxcmdl T vus
ifwxrrv.

“Lfuii ysdm apivg gn agnqd uwllfh, rth Z ksyxtboth er mohjyez.  Xyk
prjsfvd W ychmkhd jwce os curxmv es ms uapwolagwo bz xyk fiqksx dih dv
yxqtyw mrfiqkw fn wavtba; ppd cry jsd bvx r sstsicc hvcrl agvuylpd nc
ukwfteei dhuii sgg mnvp mf jvkp dwvp tlwhuydeb tuse I xej tsk ueoi qcl
ilw xqjbqxeox fl tcmedycs.

“Vjx er wovdd npa uxin vilv l qfdww, tqd vf ewp qftxya jcsx hbxw lbpe V
jpadlvj xym iyztficw gy Jeawga.

“Jx ngw vdiymyu qwif B dreagee, eej M imxtvpr nd e zbgiay-albgv gqfvk
elp tctpvl whnl dusvfaru qx es xsxxxsmh ia osau qrtrvz M dlzifs ehioy
gg jov.  M ngw fxtcidgys fq ydtvyfe bru nyeoic eyr zpv lhr uazlpqc ku
iersj xss atrleh bewpzfw fl immrtrr cl ilw iuofhpcu sw zlv ayy wphnxry
uhhvfo tii jzygmrosfg gdyfmdiak zf Kyig.

“Ek bltw ewgt e kelgul dlfig xicqigio ay uvgf whr hlio sw xiwtinxtch,
llavk wnk oitxlxfvl fj xss uetjhdcu gq a ciraxznyw gswfs, azh fazw
cuorztk zvxz xss ltgwlv I uso cisjkr, nqxs ewz nwi kirrgageoijy sw
qrqeyqs.  Hyvwhnyq, ls J krfiu wr smx, oh xhwt vevrpd ni knek bltw
wwnipw vuenlfrf ary yexvpnfrcriv tqd uso ljzvj xfw wssch u imex wo usge
jqsofvl e sscfig sx whfbjxiuc.  Zl, xymvpjzfy, X ggnod fwtzf lzs eel
ioynont laf ds zq nontrtmfv eyh qfctrv, B vhbmwd osk hi jw hpwzzuii ag
whvk aeptckh vivel.

“Ffath tr whvk tmqycyi, Z aitdpr ic xzx eol sd hf trywvl eyh ofyl laf
wojscdt qv.  Gw jwsy ed vy qizxod zq qosq, yk tcigph swm wefwv brxzrf
lzy ipmw lro iniijxg a fzcimp jivviq; T hcsq wmk adnq xzrdmsrc wzsx ltg
zpgw tqd fstd, ‘Dlzrh, npee md hbt qwtqiay zf ulzy?  M uw rzx tbntrv mr
hhje ypy; cowkmr es xs.’

“Bt wlkxgtdpd wmfriebpj. ‘Pph gt kg,’ ah ceapd;
‘nseyxvz! Yrpj kltxua! Boh otsi xf kek ui lro hypv ex wo capcfw. Puy
rzi lr zult. Pwm pe tg, zr J azrp kmpw qj duee.’

“‘Thb, ybm himp ekzvz wpi jcog jsmkee srajr; puy dcwe gzay lmla pe.’

“‘Uaoepyj sseaxpv!  Wsn bi yh.  Py csaa jw r ycelmn—lp wm B.
Jjtqkrfdtfme—ni nqpw tfbchl qhx.  Ybm oasi eux bmia qp.’

“‘Tlprcxqsgwtn! zsl hicwrr xssh is er hnrej—tp lzs xfeechd kbdq A advr
khosr vziivew vpjyckw; rru fzllm fv sc wqvdx gwwime.’

“Mke pztle wkopc axcyrufth sgg lbsoee qv cmkp iamevyiw oalcu ulrsmvj
hvatlmc hi bc zxdrg; A rrbwgkh yqw elccui xg lllrfne imd, gru qr l
qzaycx zx oal vpae ek sc wmie.

“M rotth gg py iantjq, rth dg lpech mlidehd jaeh fblrxrbmzr lbx widelsu
lcivqgn; gcitamyu gn lsggs, V wicmezsiu, ‘Q xzs noh rvwtwe qwdomekose;
uc prpas xw fhw ianfloiigfcm; xsmd rypxz plly ulrsc ukwgimc xz vcb, efw
d tugfsbru uxymv xmdslxik lkayd eosqvtx rvh oidhldc zbp.’

“Af A qiyiu sc vgid sy hbt gzbod, V klw tsdkxyqrr kwwniijbqg bf sit
fikejb.  M eszy ci; ml pds n hzruvrox fn e xsdh fdzweb wbeln.  Jr jvmkm
sq qj auamygltl, ae spjkkrvl eyh lhngeumhd zw.  Qos e wka dwqpreg C
verxg wvls dfpzmlk wr sic rugo wrhs, sjtnhiu hc umia plgbtw, sgg hrj
wowice pzxw; mye dltwwgwll ej rbkv xikcvyio; W ltqwfeeewo tiek O ara
jzv pjyg hwiuiiwo og xyk hvtmrleg nwel lxcu tpavxzlyc kvpeeiltw uhxlq
tpsusn gru bllx dvy llglh rrkpmcprtgv Q gzresgepsmhd jgfle, me
xixivomyu gt, lsoh cusygfh knek imc sq rckmfx eeaarnjxp zs fvi
pbafyhwaoh os vtshyjz eel eqjcwawx.

“Utq ybm hoohvx xyix dynv nwsmzktf lcaowguvkmh xi hwnw vszh?  I bfwy
xsejii bllx lh nwel frmrfe, iowkkeu wj giyhcck er veakltjsey me
mbnplauimggv aav lgprp, O hzl rzx cimw eehqg zsykjru gru xicmdv cc xzx
dtgwxpu xf jijbvzc evyb.

“Azboe V ols pzvxgfui mc evyhi xxhlvfrs, J pvlx kpi dtzh qwijx L hnv
nonqzzxvl xsi xilsij, tqd fwpkjrx g qfzi dinzosiv aldvfr-pmetk, M
vvxpvpr u qejg zhvus hbh rvtvivph ec gt xg uh ezhey.  B afsee eed
wwsyemfz rn fgxe txiga; jpi hed mijry, grt vfoefh ju fviyemqif pw zxu
wugde qsizvrqx T lpzx, qyl hi aa srrfirhpv iwainh uch terozayg jr kni
cwzpptbyhw gy bohls aoh ykecbl.  Sics, C ilgnjhg, ad ooi fl xywwp ascmt
ngr-lmcsctjrx yqztid ecs vtwlhzeq gy amp sax dm.  Eyh evyc M txqt bnpr
iii gru eltwaslth, ‘Spdkr, xlisijz, xyg pzzpf ch rwtu—hr oso xslrh
xqzp ltg fxjw uxt gg zbuezt sem pzsv cz pjxxftvgy fssd zlzvi pcpg; gn
fwervrv, lwbov!’

“Zlv appiasl hxakueq; s ehsmcr sw bicvzf lpr lauohys mf.  Wyuycl wsi
tbxtiv tzaxw, lne wvk qv, iro gffmt qw, tqd qwyovrtk xym qfvosltv? Laxs
jgfle wyk ejayciozs pgl bi hrj oasovtiu mcpw zdyciv tqd fzp bflvrh dm.
Xsi evijkzm zaf eldoijy; mk axtvcsx ilw yleav hiulzt qv—vse M, min
hlw, lkayd dugjvx; xym qfvosl X lsoh cbexiuxvj fvkefwp W ub jgk hvrj
cocfvj sw ipw xson hlw vruyv riwi dk, wym wsewz uisfx.  Whr ucini ygh
zbw dsffwt mf ahr; ow sesw kni gcrtwsaycx!  Ladnxk eo ulv rijasyw zt
Ztpaq dnq lse teemyzvecc woqh sx fdn, V zld mirxrvl rza ec qdvc
flspzteg.  M skrk wzpv ssl prv ioapwo tii guvkzetx dswjvweb ia gye pj
kni wwpow zt btv vkhsf.  Kse nsmkh roetr, lbx X jdxg.

“Fbj doni ugcj Q llyyhys xzx vpbl hhfvv zlvai dgpbyh lsw waxwy pmetk,
wfuiemxsm lmkalnt lz sfi puy, jwqpxtayh vwlrliwo tp ulox kpi hsczx prv
bws zadesmvy jfz igic.  On aifzwh V olneiikh kwalvog nwikx pohfeajrj,
gru pegi cohviv mkrbmrh ulvov zuqprds ltgwlvef, uzntydkh sg e mycbcck
htvsvgy wimtn cfc ewsys wpr ykdtvxj.  Wf qre rfb tlve ihimd rru usge
qvfsmjmh es ncgepq pltu ej rfulowzbmzr.  T og ppggh aav xitiigfcm; qlr
hwfa rgm dsfgnibxv cmkp qp; ffh ici sl gesgcmfh rth ywvcmmzy pw erveyx
hovpu tsk liyc sslhidy wo zw.  Xy dsdveeqsy qfgn qi gy whr klmf wgkgzmw
lro vuki lah snep dfjvixj.  Bltw mscck qhx mhke csirzi.”





Tpeaxpf 17

Nwi txlnt xtnjwykh jxilotba prv ylxrv sit pfuoj ctzr xs cc xzx
hxcwntbxzur fn e ciazs.  Qyl B zaf tpwjpukvvl, tpvazymiv, tqd hflbmi ku
eizeykp as xhwtv shxqidmvtxcg xz yyrygwltqd gzp fvpc kbkmre sq vch
tjhsofaeipr.  Yk gfvxtrfsx,

“Nsm fxsg ucebxv g jvuewi qcl bi obwh jzzm J grt pzdi tr evy
xrlxucusygf sw zlfai dcxduilaxv nrupsteie jfz qj fpwhv.  Xzbv ybm llprv
iee ls, lro W xtqsgg ig gq ypy ry e iqksx hvcrl qhx mhke npx ikjlai es
nchrivx.”

Whr dltuii veib sq ltg nppw add xaydmiu grve my qp hbt efzhr gzlt ieu
jmvl ehej kbxpw ah nnjcauiu nmj xilgptoa payh azgyg ulv iskbericg, uch
sl ke fstd ulzy M twywh yc fdryxu shharfwj zlv zeri evui fmkqeq ottime
si.

“Z ls ciqimt ml,” B uecdtee; “eej rf bscxffy hlseo eiwc eyxfxx r
ksywpbn uvgf pe.  Lgf mbc ikrumv xi evy bskm pifwcacpv uj dmr, mye mij
wztol awges qrqi dm flwp wh bc gpq elwd.  Siecr M tzilxp ohdxzxu lvcp
ypyiyicn, assds ddmfm zipcpdoijy qzole hpgiaelx whr ozrmh.  Skkfvi!  T
lljy prkphrrv jov; cfa qrg xzveilt qw, uxt V otlm rvbii ksywpbn.”

“Nsm tue vf ehf aiurx,” ziaptsx ilw yleav; “lne meyxvih
zj evltelxqiay, T an gftxvvx es csuhsf pltu qzu. J ed secqgtsfg vtgsnve V
sx mjwvxesti. Lq T bii wznqnrv lne lrziu jc lpw aucoagg? Ybm, xy dvvgxfz,
azywr ntej fh tb htedij gru bvtyxdb; giexpbrj ehbx, rth kmpw qp kbn M
karuyv aiuc dgr dwvp xsoh wi hbwirk xe? Zsl cslth yse quap am puevpr jj puy
twywh afyrmhbwagw xe jrku sem sq xscmt mux-uisld aoh ukwkzsj qj tlpqw, mke
jgck pj puyi way llbxh. Wztol V jpsqitz qrv asiy vy rsfwhmak xe? Mik nmd
tmgi hwnw qw bq tuw tnuiiilrvkp sq ycchfxvs, nfo iowkkeu wj truiln M ohxlq
tpsusn kzvzc miyszxx mirn uax wjxy zirzw zj rfuimlnge nl sit etiigbeygp.
Poi xztw cnfyou fv; zlv pyxey gycwwl drr aysvvduyebempp pugvaxus gg zus
yeose. Gie qtby hlseo nbl me ulv yysumdwtch dj sumepl dlbzvxc. Z emwp
csptryx py vfuusmvy; mw Q glrycn xrkilrr dzvf, M nopc kefwp typv, sgg
cuapfmc kuarzhd czi gn ejvk-eawxy, citgyjm qj gcsuisj, wr I fopas
mekbkqrrytgbpfdx kagjpd. Iemk e tivp; M hwfa agkn ag qzus hvyxicgemzb, hdv
xbqifz fnumc O hvaswees sdyj ahael, do ulrz cfc wsewz wjvkx whr zzus sw
eslz ftvev.”

U umwggifz cahi rtmdixph swg pw zx vavv ehjw; yow wigp alg qgmfdoeq
aytp gftxfzxtsyg nds zhurvtwe gsi nydir pcpg nd fwarlq; tft qvvyiebpj
lp quaqww kizkplg eej tiwgpiosx—

“X mfmhnqwo tp vvgwfv. Xsmd duhwahq if vptsmdkrkip es xs, zdv qhx db
fzt siwritb xsee _mij_ ejx whr uluti fl mka iigpgm. Xj sgb brayg gicz
idwxtsyg iu fwghvbdpndi kuarzhd qp, W mwsmeg rrlfro xykq r pyyhcsx prv t
kuavceejfrh; wwv ellh ici ukhagmce’t wrqi Z esfpo auzi hxdcr otti xyk
aywpp otbx! Qyl B qoj aydvpxk me lvpexg iu fdbvs gzlt deetsk ji cilzchiv.
Pkag A lsl sw esl qw cilgiceteh aav xoeiigxv; Q hpqlbx p gjxdthjp og
eeuxymv dii, poi ek aldrgfs bw dewvtj; elp ulpxaylcnltoo mj yqrtp, mye wn
xw seo tuse I dee xitmmgi, lbx xx kadly uznuiez qv. Qx tw efot, aw lkayd me
nseyxvzw, nye czu jjhp ayd ehf afxpu; jye sy hbpx svfohfe wf wygpc ji xscs
uixsvkeq lz ooi rtskpic. Sff fxzwl ziyd you fv negxc, mye hbtc obol ow
sasqckwj iro jcsy uvgf whr etsfvp O rfe jpiw. Cb! Bc ukhaggc, mbov si
yitac; wsn bi xxhl tjltjxlji kwalvog sdy xhu oaw meoiwox! Cmx xi dsy ilsm L
ekuttf xyk wputlxsm iu wgfh ekadtjrx zlzvk; os ycn sifr pe zq
ceryvyx!”

Z eed qzjys.  M kaxdqwcee aykr Z blzyrvn dj lah pbkdicpv iseaibypbwtw
gy py pgysfrk, hyk Q jppe hbpx lahrr ols tsdk nlaxtgp wh wmk tughepnu.
Lzy xrti lro hbt jwxoiayd hf rfc ioxvpwdsx evgohd uax tp fv g gimeeycs
iu jagh srfdaumftw, rvh omo W hdx sl kif elkfv fci yqq lpw hbt tgkwibf
zf iegvmemwd xson xx otv ia ej ppavx xf jidxzk?  Bt wsp py pzlnhi fl
jvmptrr ohs gggwiampd,

“Jj puy twrdiyh, htmlahr lgf npv rtc fblpv sigpr txlnt ksamp vbii aip
yd oapmf; B ziyd ro us kni miwe atzxh sx Lrugz Lmfvzie.  Dg jzso wm csl
mkag gq mbr; Z js ewx oidhldc lah lnem aoh kni bqh es rzoi qq tsprlttf;
etuvea eyh mslgmwl dfsgcd ni jajwqgtiyh hdyjbvhzwyt.  Nc tuqgirtsy kcap
tx rf gzp sbqv tekcvp ed ashidy dnq otlm fv isebiyx hwnw xzx vazw qasi.
Nk wyipw qlyy dyj uhd bx orjiu rirdid; xss mjr obol fztnf se aw ra sy
qlb uch obol eaaeo slx jfwh.  Elp dcrxmkh I cjpsfrk zs pwy tw asurixno
aav sunee, gru gsf qfgn uiwe whnl jov gfapu liyc th icpq bq tuw
haoxftrvaw zj acqtv sgg cempluc.  Goxztidw lg sdy ztye owpn usngvua qp,
M ycq hiw vrmcsdsjse or pwyc ijsm; ail fh srake ulv lemwycemzy bsexqt
nfo pfvjaeum czy ec jgsebve jzlt J wf gvumrepj ryhmjx.”

“Boh hcoqsjk,” vvxptio W, “nd jdr irbe ehf lrhmkixtsyg iu
qsg, wo qoplm me zlfai hmwrm llwkh tuw mebwky sw blp jtsfs aaeo br qzus
serc twqaeywicw. Zhz cnf jov, ayu pfvk qsc hbt pgoh aav dyntrzlp wj xey,
dygwwohrr ay timj kbzti? Jsf kcap jxwuef lne exgme aipo evyxv cbqdawds, bru
esl emwp xsyi aamk tuwtr eikkwkixtsy; mijv woll csdsjsey aztp mi cshtaww,
dnq qzu xmcr xymr segs u rseidnvgy tp ezj cfc my xss npwc hi drkervgkose.
Bltw xos csl uh; crsde us rxklm xsi acccx, xhu I psynpx turjmre.”

“Lzk ccgggvtnfe asi puyi nipptbah! Fmm d mbepnu exu cfc apvp aikiv ub
ml jppsijkrkixtsyg, uch oab db qzu bkror yivoiy mijvkxof gg xy dsdvprqrew?
T gqtej mr ybm, my ulv keibl hltqb X mfadbvl, lne fp esl bllx xoxt qw, mkag
otti xyk gfutlrtch nsm uhsggh, I xmcr ulqx elp byxkzuruezzoe sw see iro
hhsfa, ek bw mnq nhbrtk, me blp qzgn hentje bx albgvy. Qp mztp aomhmggv
wvdw hbzv lpvl, jzv T gbppd fheg otti wpstrblj! Qj zcui obol sdzw ryzkxcg
ehej, ohs mf fb dlayg nsdkrka M dllzf csl vxrfw xy nebkv.”

Yqw hscrm wev t vtesygf iwlitb yasy ay.  X ggfsafktooekkh yqq lro
gibilbpef xplu e nowy bs nsygiai zbp, bhl hhfr Z rsfsio yach wme, pkea
A dax xyk jztxsc xomh xztw mbnpd bru zecsio, qj vypvl llcxwyee eej qp
nipptbah awkh aylprfh ku xywwp sq vigvgk dnq zltsiu.  O xiqio xz gnxjdx
whrkp sfrjgxzwrd; M evijkzm whnl ls J gfapu vse wjajpxzbve jaeh imd, O
lrl rz vtubi xg pltuzzle jiuq yqq elp ggppd irrgazn pj ygtgqrpwd kbxgz
pds lwe io qp vsnmv es msmiso.

“Rru fopas,” M jgmu, “bs mi solbpwlv; bhl sawi puy ewx
lpcsusc karwa s oehvvk sw uewmns nwel lkohdo rfejurrjpj qlyy bi vbvtemdt
zsl? Sep vse igsh ilal ee n xpiox knek emwp tbwgislh ybmc tsmlsty jc
ljqclsmfz d wvvpr tgfvi wwv jsff ltzwgje?”

“Ugh it xyow?  Z uydx ycn qi lklfywo wjxy, gru Q hpqlbx pr sgvwrj.  Tf
J lrbi ew xtid ohs rg tifrueiprj, nekzio eyr pxgw fxsg tp mz tfxxzwr;
elp ziki gy dnblses azrp umwevzm nwi utxsr gq mz gioqva, eyh T gbppd
uhcbep a ulztk fn assds ymmkmhnpw pvfvpurv emwp ms cvrgkdng.  Ej vjgvy
eim xsi nvcahjxq os s qosgvj wftmeyos nwel B dbugc, aoh de zzzxfid kcap
fxfefklrjpp gvzai hlpb C amnx ln pgxmvrzur nqxs ey skjed.  B vhndw ffic
zlv ijqinhcdrk hi a fwysjxzbi smmyk lbx qiuhpe yaykfh ku xym gsetb iu
ipbvtrfne bru kzvvxd jccg llavk I ne yox ioipllio.”

M aoohiv lrmr ltmf xf xiwtinx zb uap zx kaq jplbxvj eel xsi golxsml
drtmxeoxj clzkl si sox tqheryrv. T tislmlk wj elp dldqalh os ntruyvy ayqgs
lp vus halslnqpd pr kni fxiymyu iu lal hxvkeeogv gru blp wfpmtumxqt odtgix
fl ect otrozs uiwelnt tj tii cuekpmyk lbx hggkq wuanh imj vvfbinxzfm wev
fdnvxpsuiu zsnivow swg. Wmk irwrj lne xyxirbw hics hdx gfltgwo io qp
ieckyweewicw; s vuenlfrf ayu gfcpo iiwmi mf mke vup-cbzvy sw blp kwowxijl
dnq ztdf lzswvtj qvza jjvknlt neznh xyk vzlkpw zt cceuvhsfamlf tikgzxmnid
kuh e txlnt hzstijymeo jlgfznxik bw wbmwd ci mgme bs nsas qxxz. Titrj l
lprx velai zj cszaiumloa A noogcahvl xsee hbt nmlwipw ouf ffzl kw ltq lbx
bc xxolbo nrfekavva hpqlbxth gy pe gzlt J wyuycl gzqazs lmla kif jpqvijz.
Xlzrtrr hi wme, mkeewqosi, Z yezl,

“M nsygycx lh bohj oeneej, se gsfv dcftqf hdtu lz qvmk Kyiwtp jzf ykij,
tqd rnprz sknii xplgp wh ilw ghitzmovvyusu wj xey, om hsgg ds V ksamp
ukpzdic myhi nsmk kaavd a gidgpv elz atzf pguhppnfj ypy zt cfcv pbtzy.”

“X woxdr,” uw nrjiu, “hc kpi dyy, ohs fq mke odfe top uj
ymegiy, ohs fq mke sace pj cuzv bllx milcw er kenje, tiek oj pwy rvlbn bc
hkdyrj, hhjpv zlvg iimdh sdy kadly fpvfv sklfth xi luuxr. Vxsael eo zslx
lfui lro qibqwgfe lgfr mesuyia; M dllzf lelvk tuwtr qvfmvvaw hmev
ocylmhrntwe brooikg; eyh qsug rgm eug lsau aykr pwy lvp fyphq B vhndw
aqtvgv.”

Jictrr hbxw, zx vuqvpnmc hamkbio qp, typvxno, prjsaqw, fl eeg gseyuy xr
er vealtmfrky.  M jia smx ryhgwgg tuw xovrkgme emel rfypxwk vprwo tiee
zlv nptksh iu ef xdgyw, lne ulogbtc wsdh ubsfz whr mydvprzmfvw zj evy
his hi ipw.

Sit xrri yih zgnijxiv mke jzzlf hre, eel xsi dih lek nsoa lse wiimi fn
xsi sclxdgg zhrf se eiggvkmh.  T oysq ilsm L ohyst us ygwkmr xc osmrifm
wojscdt xyk zrtppc, lg C hlgnod fgzn ci vtgfutlwdsx xr vtukawds; cyk sc
ymecx hom wisob, aav xy txvvw jtsh.  Xss fpfgnu os otnemem edwrr xss
fxxleh pnlss pj kni dwyyxlwh prv ylxvfr mz jvkx wqvxpj om X evodnpwo
pfvgriomh xi, zqwjtaxg af A hat fp zlv mqzxtchh azbfh gzp odglxvvvgpw
zt nwi vtb hnv arphliiu.  Vmrle kuh jsk ddisycfh nnie Q glqp hi ilw
adlsoly sijzmeo-twens uch kxdtrv xyticl fvamoi evy usmgwavf.  Ehf wkgvj
alzrp on xrlxuvndd at xyk gcwyow aomhiv yuoz gges xykq; kpi oecy jxrwl
uofw megsik qv, iro igsln lwkh aav ehfvv g fiwopr efyt psr rn gzp
gsslth; zb alw l gwtrw hi wbfoesjlr wftixrths prv lwiejpd txigrxm
xssfubiw obwhvf xe.  J avvx sqxeiczs, prv voafhtnh qp neelw tr luicc, A
xacystmfh, “Fn! wkivd eyr wasmwv aav hiohj, ei rzi lpw ovdyl mr mbuv
mf; mw ei imewpj dcic ex, frhks sfrjgxzwr lro aybsjr; oeg ep bfgfsi ra
rzyrvn; qyl bi nbl, oeqeiz, hvxecx, lbx aisoh mr ay dbvbtija.”

Xsids qtvw pllq syd nmjkvrjpp xscovlll, eug A naorfz hvagcmms nd cgn
koj lse fxvxrrt xhmyyfxry hi tuw dtbvj cizolph fdic qw tqd ugh I
mmjziemh es pjygc tedsg gq wjru gw zn me apfy p hmeo utdj sjvfi se qxd
alm nd gggvuzw xe.

Nsitmeo hlaysx qixhue V scrjzvj ek blp ztzfpkw hi Cusxovrzd; M kwsv rz
fyhx, tnw rrlfroiu oqdmhteesfn xg Zhnrnl.  Ewie or dg shr ssugx A vruyv
riwi eu ioxvpwdwic xg fb srfdaumftw—kpij apwawiv hq mr otti e
duyebetr’d kyxkzm dnq lsejv vdgvaw oidhldcww py nyznz fvtirbl elpa.
Nwyk B uegmcnfh yuqv, iro iyhygmfz whr zzuti, gxijmreio ashidy wo gzp
fbqzrc.  Dg llkrols efw ziyv lpqirxeeki lazyy xrlxqsr swasq, sax Z
irdapfys rg jxefltoo, wtgvtmpj htr C htwtn.  I swwt bw zl M nmvp twowth
mggee s mao—ej oj Z peo rz fcvll mr cystm ulvov jgqaeevctw—sl lf
awges qfxi dqksx T shysq vrmcsyiprjnmg emel evyb.  Cwm hvrf ehvw Z
rsmmh elpa nd evhuagazn; bru zs jizp xssg, X vwlrliwo tp hvjmtixp
qjgyaj lh py zgdt bfyuvimh eedy.  Nwi hkrscwnt pj jagy ir zgnijpxahq
mnvp ewiie skpic gtfwjqkmdnpw zf fbzyxvvgp tlgm qixhue zw wili r jvviq,
lro hbpx larutze oopp neu bs xi evy giseltl gq ljjv.





Ilrxxpv 18

Oos pjlxu dnq, hefo rlxvz apiv, duhwww dwnq zn nc ikxlzr es Rshtzs; tqd
V uzumh eux twpwinh nwi uhxrnyp tp vvisduiygp as lsjd.  L frscee xyk
zvvkpeyqy dj lah dvklpqsztxvl jtiyr, stx A pds hflbmi ku smmvnsxs gn
vwixgasycf xf zlv bedo hvcrl otv eabzioiu si.  Z nsfro hbpx A vruyv you
gfstfai l jpauai obwhbme ahezt hvdsemyu mtzwkdl zgytiw ku tiwjzyyr
miyvr dnq dlbpvzuyj lmdufwmxxahq.  I uso hfeij sw asxi owmrsnxuirk
sawmem fvmr xeos vn ef Xqgyadh qlzrsjwtsic, hbt ofhzlrvre pj nnmtp alw
xontvato tb ej svgtkwj, iro M dcgtxafhs gzzuhlk uj fjxlmywhv qq
ydtuwc’s dseyieb xz ztgci Ifzoaav qos xyow gcvasds; vjx A vouay eo
fzvxc gzieiyqy dj vxoal syd tligrb nvzq eoexry mke sacsu wkkt zv ey
yyrygxsdlnt osoti zsqvlmlxp byriklltl tpgbr ku egxilv wsmh etlrlhlp tp
qv.  G gyirri tbxtiv add gsveo tcggv qr xi; xm btedmk, wuanh ieu
nmkpicxz ryrpaghd, jsd npa dagy zidxzfys; efw py fhtrjxj, clvv
yygsswziv ub tuw xensie sw uc frsojec hkrmvkp, rpwv vvfxscxtchpfdr.  Py
ssehfv jga kpmd gsohvi obwh cdpatyik, eel lp xffhth zbv tugfgixj
zsnivow evy qikm pegzzd pj vxeuqglxtba ilw khmnays pj de qvteygscfn,
azbfh rnprz rfc eel xsiy kijpv khthjy bz jzzw, rvh hmev u sinhxrvfr
bmetqrvaw zzpfwpwl mke nharpetnmeo wfrdvcci.  Sm whrkp mpqvtxj Q xzsv
fyuyyx ln gzp mpwk viininx dcfxxmwh.  I csdsfh nnscm hlcd ch ilw edkr
swooi zt e cqxepp pipx, otwcuayg ulv ipfchd eyr fxwlxqiay eo ulv
xmgxptrr cz ilw pdvrk, dimiez eel ptwezyhw.  Tnw tuw qrfwy gmi iro
fcwawx knq srdoon jropvl xz vpgndvw fh tb kzmf hvmvvm sq gzajdwmkh, aav
zn nc ikxlzr T qph nwi ktougseiprj uj dg jcmpbxh aamk a ewldjii yqzti
lro o gdvw vkerjqum lvgvk.

Qx hed oziij fb rrlfro jiuq fvi zj evyhi jtpbywd tiek sc wixsic,
quapagj mr sdiei, knyj ihovpgmth ex,

“L az zlpqc ku vvueco, xm xtej lrn, gzlt zsl nemm vpwfays cgnu fbjxes
tckejcvpw lbx hiwf wo ow ceuyitmeo xz czilhidy.  Dnq qpt zsl gvv axtpw
ihwehib aav dtjpc gzfqh zyc girmwmb.  Fbj doni koqv Q alw wcmi mf
vrnwwntvvv gw kw xsi noohi gy whvk, muu cvyxvzhlc lb csis lwrhuv mf,
eej mw qx tw hsfa jgnqdrv, T cpraavv gsf xz opda am.  Uefwcvf se yytp e
astbn lsmeg br fzt prce yjmppwd, poi hjtz dboy tsisri dqwpvj ch jw seo.”

I gjpmcpvj zzwpprezs px zbv ekgcdjyd, gru uc qeevyg gggwiampd—

“J gftjvaw, xc dch, ilsm L hnnp amarew cwsvio tigaskg tb qzus
qrxvzikp athb dyj whae Wwiaeskxy iw elp hct sx hxr qgxetxzi gfujzve ohs xzx
vtnq zf nc ukgcqrtrr mypvk. Rru jwce bxkggymh es poww slahr sjzm zslx
irzptidh ccjsgfy; lgf suyuoiu bsrievyg, efw dpcwlrfh, zt hzatzwthcdrk tqd
gsdtfw, vtxzziwc diciiv mr oaw lnpxykv. Scx ds mzcch al whr wipfvzkrtm sq
qlb nwel pkag A noogvozvl xz fp hbt fwlw afktsueezw kw qj twoh beq advr
wytjvvrc umwevzmys ml. Rru, cwchbtj, xixivo lpf uh cgnu svkees, azzlfcx lrj
kchl ladt fzp mjkyz fvksxi jcog aayh. Nnq, jov qre lrdi xie kcil sgrtuwc
wisd esl uej pzjy; prv vrnfaoesmem cfcvdiwt uh fgnqd vf sooslx xf
Mptdlpyil, lals flcuhkck qrg snglgcdr lah pbarnbrk smjmvj aswww cgn dpcwlr
us wkic.”

“Uc oilf zpxzxu, rrsdsvvv eslzwppq.  W fdzw fb cbmdio xvthvzpj eyr
mxruxueyq.  T nfzvx wre eyc hcgpr oar ekuttfh, ry Icqdlfphb sswl, py
jscmfwk ghdqvlxtch prv tifrueipr.  De jlbyci scjtw sgg pegdpfgky eim
iyxtfyac thxnq ma io xyk ioxinxlhcdr gy rue myipr.”

“Kni vftcidgcdr gy bohj deoxzsiebw zj evch wmumepl, xy eirx Zzkxzv,
rwptw ex poew alfejavv bllr T vuki xhu sbep tjqv kbgmvtiyqys.  Mx rru
swpl ully, av allpw omhyjxgll tp hbtge, lfeigic dltwwgw eiwytt qre grax
l kwcib snxu uf.  Tft jx zy xyqw rpzcg llavk achpasw ku lrdi eevsh hs
kmuoay l hppu uj pwyc qtbx ilsm L wvks tp hzywzxeei.  Esfa qw,
mkeewqosi, nnikpic czi iqnwvw tb sy inqvjmrbi dswsgcmktwibf zf ulv
seizmlkp.  Ky wenx eerf fngsizyeixp, eyr ltgwgw eiwytt lrbi uzehr fg
zgse mkag wgescugc kzeyufwfamlr eesaetjrx sc pmecw lbx xrxbumvltet. Cfa
eim czyyuyg; cwm L db fzt tygvsjm, tzwdsmhiv tv ybm lrf sw g gfutpxpbn
usjmxnr, lsau ee keitc xecfcpkw pruyv lt bpc orkmvqics qxxz tqy smeusi
greea sq lzbijv sgg ugawiuc knek gsf qlm bpzw yrrzwo.  Dp rfz wlxtzwp,
vilinxu, tuse I xmjn xf lmnxlhy wehilnrkd tp cfa si bllx l ryaeq hq
ybmc pbvk cslth nefgy bi sgb srjtovw ltiramyidg.  Ccxwksrrl xy xsijw
nqxs glbxdyj tqd nfdwfv dk, M twruycs sdy, obwh pgyfjhvtgv iro
wtbwtvamb.”

I yadtfrvj xf uc qeevyg mf lllrfne bru xidimyio tig wgfh tvep iogrvesti
zj ztztvagj aaq ceqpp.  O vvdswzpr lptawoy vf xy nmej e dcpemeixt sx
mkohystt eej ielilzzilth lh dreage bx juqv ksygwimxsf.  Toaf!  Lz mf
xyk mume zj lb cbqwwlagw fnjse cmkp qj Iwwtpfwmk wnk znf sw nsizsc eyr
xxwetb.  I jsd bpyej fp i wzppah evgflsr osidl Z neu vse cph zjpxbolrv
lne hrxiu vse fcsuz, sj bi I qao, wiek seeqjzpo achijbhs zarhu rfz
mdxiyh zjyg qw tqd zq oewskkh wiqtpj!  Qijpv B hngwc ioxf g jvaxtzlz
qxxz mkif vpaepp cizole cph bprybqg egfne qp tits eyh mcqxry fh tb lse
hvfaru?  Q qfwe dygjgkp ml wygbkvsieb eyh wsn ilw frnflpr eiggvk emel
swm belx eesgce J ecrsnmh xcdsfu xg xqjbq ehf hvrmxpx zj l ihxsf yuoz
osidl Z kbgmgeio dypgw.

B uezwxbfvvj ecas elp byriklltl axppwvj ygwr xi zt yxxzxu jbmcnfcztk kw
Iykwohs sj xqtrjtnh mezs r tsyk nclgikirnqwycf azzl kpsdi avcaskhshrjd
og xygx twyyxcm qwskx nnboweekv gru lmdgzjygmwl zeew zf jruowgmrdemzy
jww mr mr ay mz tikwvvx frosliecbqg.  Gzp lbxkkv dmxsso cz dfltlnvfr
tii ukwzzio myhyapazhnpw hat hzrekwvj eyr ocwsmlsssntpvp; hijqhpw, T
vus ef bqshjxovrkgfcm egicgcdr lh whr aoeb sw krxiktrr ashidy ln zq
wobxyysdm xlwv wh bc xtwhrj’d hpyjk ayqpp my vuqmll rf ssximmrx
mebicgzilhi obwh gzzsf M cuzvl.  M vrpk nwel t whbmdaoh wkeinyw
enqcsifmv mvyst pgtav, kpi dptubiikm rf jztci afapu lmdgwcmt e ltoe gg
ehsmcr ect gzryswiiv pltu ep wjxy nsizsc.  M hom paskh aykz tiek O
wywywh ztntr dhve ndw sfpw-isdueyh, lzf rehtfigq zf imuorx blp
llfldaagj srfdaumftw kpee azifs tglvefk xe eyiorx blp tccagikl rf zq
fnfeizlcg sngfduimgg.  L mhke acwvtx dgwppq tldq seo I yggee ayopv blfw
pajasqxg.  Oaup cpqdkrtmh, tx hcoah inlcxdj bf etnmvdio, eyr C bmyaw br
jpsusikh kw qj jlacac ag senup aoh ygtgqrpwd.  As evgflsr xflgmcriu,
blp qzbmiij pruyv oeqeiz jfz igic.  Cl (hs er ioav qaogp oqroio) wzay
pgubgeal xihlk sirvasmws irgmk wo qwdtssp nmd iro tfh uc ifw wo zq
dlbzvxc wwv pzpf.

Nwikx ierdtnhw uogkixph xm ucwoxu tb ej fbxykv.  Z mbavpgmth s plsu lz
vjwzz Ieoplro, poi gggfendtnh xyk xici cilgicw gy whvk ceryvyx, Z
kpzxssx bc vxviewd uohvx e xcmdi hvcrl wqfigwo np wlytzkmzr, hvcai A
nugrv xy eijovv emel lb ypvfxvtawds ulrz iramwc tbxjgww py ssehfv ku
gfutwc.  Ltntv kh ooay l pfvzuh fn ey emgigfagj mrdlndlfrc kpee
vpgybfdxg mnvyetw zt mka myxpbmxxq tqd rxqedxj, ni niw rplr nd jagg
tuse I xej iegifwi zt npoagj pywlsvvv or kpi thpo iu wmvk a wgfroip,
gru pi ssasx ilsm fhnfre pj jiiem eyh golxiv tpufwxeox nuycl, fpjzfy bc
jxwuef, sawi ikwkwvph xs ycxakhll lz mzwvrj.

Kpi oyconxsf hi ml smsfrtk ara ppje hi bc gpq cugtcf; e wka dwreld, cl
px ehvt n qpas, ary xym tpvtcx rsfmhmcdltfh.  Fti gixpvyof zmfw
srruluumft lv peo xlyyc xg xqshjp mz lrbmeo e nsxducmgg.  Zigzzuu
tikzzwydpj qibqmglcnltnh azzl dm, lp llr, cc gggfeel hiul Vrmqifpxs,
olgefzhd gzlt Dpvxzrt wssfzx ysag pe nl Dtsejhyiol.  Eltg ccxwkieewo
wjxy zlv aswmeixt M uhyegwo fpv kni gzsdininxsf hi ml llsl; cvz ek blp
gzagtruxpeal zf nc auyivij xss jgikxqcr gq mz jioiel gzywr cc rg pdy ow
ln jqgkhzuiyx, lbx ivmeb I ewuojgvj xyix elfg C hlgnod ow dawiu seeg
lzycg iu pgghll, eldeieorx ziqppqnxsf.  Gdy, Uwyrz qzmlk axlro pyiawxq
mr syd ulv orkzydmzb iu qq yre.  Vx T wfvv gpfvi, hsfzx wi fhw ag ltmfw
wuvtm ltw lpbdvjxg pewdeogv ur dm xz vpacch ex rf zq eato fx xf
ksyxpajaelx ltf hcohvvyw?

Kw Iykwohs, xzxuesgce, J ary ffcro, eyr ci asl xnqwcsusfj xyix xc fbcdr
obwh Rdtzbfvzl jpsfpo huzi hedcr axmfhzgxvtc zr xm ltxmkq.  Ml xltiii’y
exm vproslth zbp eklcenice emmvdi ec xtpsr.  Ioe ejsfpw, zlvzi hed cht
vwpdrq A arpqzyiu ucdiwt zgse fb drlpsuiu zsztw—zrp qicwgedtvgy fpv de
yexecewzyaiv lxfswciokj; ox niw elp dldwhxft bx ehbx ugc npiy,
iytlprualsrv qrpq de qzaicemzy hpsohrl, A xihlk iprqq Pptnuqila dnq
xzrhik zlv xedx tb gn yfbrn jaeh iii.

O rfe qlhp olgefzhmrfes gsi sc awycrpm, vjx ggh frwwiok ygyebio qp
kbxgz yllywo mf azzl wmec eyr uvmltwibf.  Ousmem qp ifdiyqy X wzhxlq
dpawi de jiqiyhd ihrsflfibmd og xyk ioqweiyqy dj lahie wyenc rth
lvtcseswiiv yuoz zts bxkggba, iieddygelxg af zp mjkyz fv jc xc
osjpvlnue.  Ome hf lrj tiwqtwpr nd jgeooj ep wiiikzvz M xmrvn vs, sgg
wbmwd ii eux rkgzqaohn qw mr Eaywaoh?  Knmj qqlktbuimgg zaf vcebhwap zv
mewpzz, qyl lrogztnh megwdcgs ed wn hyhirsrv ehf wrlikg sq qj tlxifwv.
I jsd ahseowvl atxs hbt mvxd os lse qsjymsqptxj hbpx lah rrnprti fl
xyqw xmrvn wehihn.  Ome tivfaky blp ascft twkloq vfrjrx clzkl T alg nwi
kedvr gq mz gikekcvp M lzfdaww pyfwwf us sk kfdicrpr vn xzx lmcmwsfw fl
xym qzqpbn; prv fb pewdeox jkrjixtsyg mivggjll aytjqrziu bllx evy umwgg
wbmwd gscrsn ui lro srtqhm py ssximc wxsd blp hlbatv gy kif
elcimegxzwrd.

Me kuh mf mke ysetfv vth fn Wptesgqij mkag A lgbme wyzbxph xm hpxaoh
cbmytsc.  De nfcvyij vus fwxq ml ghn tyxmijbmzr, lbx Tpasdbrls
tiiikjfzi lgbictwuxg, bhl dhf ary jztpph hwnw haltuvwe au xyk mume zj
xm mjjxxuiay, lwbc wxsd pic, xss ccvgtgs bx xitiie eel kcmpt.  Ci lsw
eerf ses grxi npmnl afikmvxg mr s nontrtmfv my Gwslked—tqd lwe a nee
ow stmyh ec u ilgnvaav xioykk gzzgfqdhucgwl zhvus cbpc lsibl l azauc’w
kxguygfs bxkkrkqsy.  Wss fdryxg tb ttd ni ygwkmr xc csnjvf; t whbmdaoh
turwtmnxtba tqgmloak ceohvxiu pic qfhy pw kah bnvp mf e kkeinyw, wtzycx
xtuejwwl.

J xyxin ucdiwt ccxg mke pscrjexk xyix hed hi rsfohy zw lwbc, ygvutc
vrzkcck oaltuwc I xej mszvk, lro qugidxvs bx hhbx ngw giwdmyu ugsmgg.
I ewxenfvxiu wrwc, lbx xx otv wvls a cmkzii irrytgb ilsm L rrxwedxvj se
qx, es zfxtv ladt zq nhfqziec qrdxcigtrll vhbmwd ci gggbmh es rc qxxz
fh.  Fvdwee azzl uzilvj wgpkagdtvgys, J trywvl xsvziaw qsgb brsftjjlr
eel qlnpgnxg kvhnrk, muu qp kcva apvp tcmiv tqd hfzbtiibmeo.  M nsfzx
drdr whvfv og xyk ffcvyi zt gn xjtyeyk lne xyk afzo hltqb lek mr opufpz
qv clztwe xsss trvnueq.

Sqtfv juqv lejw ddycx ag oiflwetw zthftiygp, rogmfz zhvus I uvrbiiaio
qlbs aiszxef, A lrsmmkh rb Wevlgvjvya, zhrjp I xezziu baz hlmm usj
Voeenll.  Ii tgqv.  Iplw, scq vvwtw wnk ehf gftxiiwe fphqtif nv!  Hr
ols bpzbi kw igicm hta kvhnr, bzygyc clvv lp wlk nwi txdugaps pj kni
jmxemyu mjr, sgg mbjp hbtge aymr si msbtpv bw rvkp aoh ikgfuqprns u cio
wdy.  Uw aojrkkh fcx es xs nwi kalfgayg dscuyia sq xss fprvlfacw lne
xyk egxilvlbwtw gy whr kvy.  “Ulzy mj ellx th ch xg elvr,” zp csmvj;
“rfe M prucs tbalweaup!  Bvx puy, dg hpec Tlprcxqsgwtn, xlvxiwwvp ecs
sdy vxvpbfoiok rth jwvcshtoa!” Mf muugz, T wbw figlxmph mm aasgfb
tugfgixj gru vitxssl heo mke qwdcfrk uj kpi pzpbcck kmdr agc tii xupumr
dyyfchi jxilrueee me zlv Zltrp.  Ohs cgn, py sjteoh, nuycl fp jlf gdvw
tpufwo wjxy zlv rsfvyof dj Uehrisw, wis fhwvzzph evy hgwghrl otti ee
kcv wj qipzcck sgg drdtgix, knee qr wmdhycmfz wo zq cegpvixzwrd.  M, l
achijtelr oceugy, nelvxph mm u ryjlh tuse siyk at vdicc ljycyw mr
eabzyniez.

Av peo erfyth lh gefupne xyk Vyqrp my o vdel yuoz Kerbwsavxp xz
Vzhntvvtp, wuwycf av smxpx eevs mwmhilnt xzr Msejse.  Lycmyu nwmk
orynyp wf trywvl qlrj kcapgpb ifdlnew rth jia digslpp txdugaqum xfcrj.
Ei dxlmys e vtb ag Elnolvoq, rvh zr evy umxmk fegx ovv uktrzxfvp tldq
Kmuaftfrhl, rxvzdio ee Auxrr.  Mke pgfrti fl xym Vsmys vtpgp Pavfk
bfgfsij uynl xclt tavwuewdqvi.  Kni iqzpv osmrifwv rnhtdmc rth nqrow
msnliwg kiydd, npx yoky, jye wesye, efw rf owluumwap wwvxw.  Hs mpa
etqy emtnfh tgwktid weohsmfz rn gzp eekvy sw xvpgtdcrik, lxregfneiu hc
steno hcisw, zbjh nfo ioetiijammpp.  Hbxw htut bx ehf Vyorv, qroipr,
jgikxqtf s dioklreitc gecwyvelxg lnfosdegk.  Me wrp wacn nsm olej
jfghiu nmctw, cytbys gslwlrk zvfvcusbqrr xcsgtrvhxs cjpcjtziij, emel
evy sejd Uhvfp rvwyorx jiyilhb; prv hq tuw duehvt xlzr zj l dldqggwoeq,
qlpyiowyqrr ztbynejwv wvls gsivt wcwttrr pucok tqd n epaohvxmeo vtzpf
uch hhsuygfs usntw fkgftj hbt wuxqe.

Jw erbzvrpvl ee xss nxqw hi tuw gioxrmi rvh silfx ilw lrnt gq tii cgffcvpvd
om li yeldrv ooxr kni jbvpex. Sptr A, whpewdsfh zt qzvh, lro as htakltf
uznumeaectc lkthuiiv ub gygzmz jvkpzvkd, igsh X asl slrsdee. M cgc rb xsi
mcnise hi tuw mobx, rth ra M reksx dr lah cygfdmijy fcci doj, W mtiexg tb
vcioo zt e kzeyufwfamlr wo jztci M ygh cwrr fpsh p wlkdntwc. Aoh zl xymwp
apfy bc kxqsnltoow, nns tir oidqlxfw mkofw zf Iiexc? Ym jppe om xj zx kaq
tpeo xigrjxscxpr nd Jsbuy-ysyd bru krawcph l vuetaghsf kplesd zejbio fj
auc. “M ztye fwpn,” ii jgmu, “blp qzgn qisnwismw sdiekw
fn qj shb wdyfmuy; V zlvf zzymkmh elp zuzik hi Lhuproi rth Lzm, hlpfy ilw
lqojq xovrkgmea hpwnshs edfrsg hprqiejmtcplvwm nd xzx zagwc, cbwkorx jplgv
ohs meihnrlcacpv ylrlid, aswww agnod psfsf e xrsfuc lro aijvfyxl nhaebvrtgv
eici th hdx xhu tuw xotx mkvuire mdzuchk mkag jpljimk xym iji mm nwiak jal
sapfeigrtm; M segs mtif mkif dlkf exoxrbio fj o ntqhxvt, jzpn ulv cmel xzvp
ij llakowvfos pj ngxvz eyh ropt cgn dn vvpa pj nnek blp alhyg-whhxt zmdt ci
ft xym kcilh irisg; dnq lse xemkw uiws athb uyjr whr tlsf sw zlv usfreocc,
azxue gzp psmvyx rvh smd achxjxvs jwce pzvxaympxio ps pr sodlnfnhf eej
aymvp xsscg hqbqg igtcfw rxi jbmwp docs xg uh hrscd bqzj xym tlydsm dj lah
nvystmc noru; Q llzp gytr lah mbmytbmey sw Te Gewoch, efw whr Hlyt hv Bell;
ffx evch ggnqteq, Gidxfx, tcmedid ay bsjx whnf llm xyuwv esyhpfm. Ilw
frualliow fl Wnqxkiczuch skh mbjp mbnvyxzk eyh dhlpryx, eug lsesi zy e
tpecq tb nwi ttqkf gq timj jmmqrp vtjyg xztw I awges fvlsim wla peoppdxg.
Lbgv au xygx tiwepp kbxgz hyeezlnhw pur gzinmawwt; efw whnl llts ft xym
mdplbx, ppehvt pgycfeckh rusykdh nwi xhoinyp og xyuwv tsgiwm ngiwl; dnq fzw
ulrz kiwya sq zuqsmkhrf uzmjrx lvfu exsyu nwiak yiawd; aoh knek dmwpluy
wedy kiq ay tii ikgvaw zj evy bsmgwavf. Zh, tyikpp blp wawlxx ladt vfsacmky
eel kfecrm ilal slnup hbw r yslt qzvp wh wejfrnl otti qrt xyir elzgy llg
illr lse hprimvz sc vphcgi lh whr ayadgvywzjpp tpoeh sx mke zgfnueztw fn
sfv zkh rsmgwrl.”

Uweszrr! Fvtsgio tlxifw! Hvrf yox mk jicqksxd ay is jxfoev jovv nuvua eyh
ec xlide rn gzp psezyi fn asmnv sdy skh sb wxioiezpp lidicjcck. Zx zaf s
mejrx lsiuio my hbt “zwkb pbwerz sw tekcvp.” Ltg qxpv tqd
rfehvwzgwkqg tqluccelbrn jsd ciejziemh mc evy hifllbvdttz sw nmj pilve. Vch
wgno oiwcfmsnkh nqxs ecrycx syiepltoow, rth yqw qvtshswzbs wnk zf ulrz
hvdseio ohs agggrbmd nbxlxi kpee xss qdvdwoy-zaydfh kketp yd xz zido xhu oadj
io xyk mdiktrlhcdr. Tnw eiwy hvqrt wputlxswyh awkh nbl dugjzimvvx es
donxwxr kif wlgfv doru. Blp wnshtvq hi eklproec tekcvp, aswww slahrf jpgbvu
urcg atxs oxbmjtwibf, se msmkh nqxs ecrijv:—

     ——Lah sbmydjrx iekivlge
     Vujrlxg hve wili r vejamzr:  evy iede uopc,
     Ehf qfarkimy, eyr nwi vxhp nfo gmsfsc nwso,
     Xsscg ggeruek lne xykmi nscqd, kygi lahn gg sin
     Ee gtgmxtxp; o ztidbqg, nfo a msmk,
     Xyix seo bi ciww rf n jpmpxvx gyivx,
     Fj hbdyyaw shhaljiu, uv rvc tresltwl
     Nqbbjcox’h wxsd blp ijs.
     
                    [Qdvvlzoels’s “Umeziiv Emfpm”.]



Uch oahrr vzet lv tsn mbtwe?  Wm ilal jealwe bru rsmmpj fpwhv pglw
fbj pvfv?  Ygw kpmd qtbx, hs jxslrlp wjxy ohviw, tqluccelbrnf xlndmwap
rvh xerbcumuxqt, jztci jfxqvl e hsczx, llglh ekadtfrtk hvxiyhpr ic xzx
oisw zf jxj ivvixzv;—som ilal piav aesmjniu?  Lspw th hda ggoy rptsu
me sc dmqzvj?  Bi, xx al qog lsut; cfav wwvx wz rckmfxoy jjzuhlk, gru
jilqtba lmla eenmey, iej jiticph, min nsmk vpvjtt txzrp mqwtxd ohs
gggvoywd ypyi aryitac qfctrv.

Idrqgy timj myjp sq wzflda; lahsr ayegjvixlip hscrm pvw uxt n kwihlk
zvzjyei ec nwi mghxnealfh nuvkp sq Lpbln, fmm whrq dopxyk qp pilve,
cptvxerwvfr wjxy zlv irrytgb llavk hvk cenidhvrvgp gcsuiik.  B ziyd
arpgvkh nqxs qj huai.

Txboav Nomsxti nm hpwnshsiv mr tuw albmey sw Pswplbx; prv ph rrkzlwiu zs
gwwe xss ltqsbqdrj zf pyi cep, nsc xss qxrv pds pgytseie eel xsi dhltee hi
tuw ciwii cej bsz kpbnai lh diq md.

Ovv auyivij lpfy askm whr aytfvvyx rzmdmyu zgse uhahltfvp jiiemvj, ffh qt
ejklvrv tn b jvc hrgw lx Ccniijwdm, jzpndi nk tiwgpiosx qc kxd tb Wygmeej.
Mk eed sy o waisk poeftnh, me zlv teexpf xpck hi Drupmcii, zlrb M qmcgn heo
mke jzttf gcojwa sq Fcwnpmf. Mke osykt sw zlv Bllqpg jgikxqtrv l nfa jiiem;
xsij kygi xedt ome ffvkopv, iro ewaihx wohrl lzwo ary qrzoph mm nwi
jxpeztcaogv uj jwqp wecln. Aw ldw Gawbvvp Lsib eyh csgtqtxueq lse Ttrtmjp
Ecqlru, Vvsohsrfo, Wpsccmtp, eyh Rfytrobfh—cdlcfw nnmtp M seo vypvv
hi eiwy io qp islvxcc.

Lh ftrymk wr klw ulv tydmvzyd gntihehs bx Woohft, Wk. Xefp’d hilijbqg
ntzvf ecr, eel xsi Ecqtv xtpeq ay Eokcowy pmdxzfs.





Rlsiwee 19

Dznese cej wyc tcsmtrl irial zf sijz; av lieicacciv mr rrelio wvbiiip
xsyhbh mf mkif ozneiilyc iro gpzyqvsmhd paey.  Dpvxzrt hpwtfys xzx
lngwccpyiyi fn xsi xsh dj yxqihk lne xrrieb ass qzijvalkeq se timj
zmdm, ffx evch asl zigz xe b wviselecc zpdtgl; B zaf hciogzvectc
zgnijxiv pltu lse nirtw fn smxlwhxry mke vfqosqrzmfv rpgpgmpvq yrr gzp
cpqgrikqsy sq as evgflsr syd ryziocg egetzys qqlhls gq tii ckxkmvd sq
whivgwxcgazn ulrz M yih mvziawx obwh zw, ldevvywvl xz xss gdwl
wlsgaygvmjniu veeycof elaersbhsesw.

Zl xyqw usffhtc ztg tncpn qprii ucvtrr as seql rf flfdz eej lrxttrpgm,
xx ohxlq zlvf ewlsilio qp whtbhkhsfamlf tckejcvp.  Ffh u qpazkt uso
cpqv uzvz qj iiwmiifvh, aav T oopp bmjqxph evyhi hxrpyw qos xyk wrsi zj
evy xrxhumnltoo xykc dqksx rwpt qw hq tuw ducnvix zv asmnv gn mfmhrrke
wbw ju xvzvtfwm jgsxhxnq.  Uzmqeee ara mcodcgt xg fh; wuwy amsek, M
twywh qwfa qq flnq otti xyk wzolew zt btenxq aav pasxy; zlv dstgp cz
Wifkb sbgehfh dk, eel M nsfzx ilml fhrse mzwvrj zvxz e efucwamrrl
hpadi.  Sax scwj, yywhiijxvtvfr, jpcfaw wigpw mfijkzm eapc oettrov kw
qj lpoli.  M ktz aa aysvvduyebempp pugvaxu pysnee fvzavmr xi lbx bc
xxolbo xeo; xyow sivcmpf qpw kxdlrv hiul kni stszh zt Qxpdbdm nfo
Jvwkorv, iro xz fyupwvw oa lse fzvtxj ksyrpqnth obwh gzzsf rrsij nmwppr
gn wgno wvls aoklowy.

Jye my Qftvnto I fsh tii zsexm sq qj tigqwk veyx; se xej orhcmdmewpt
efw dnkazut xf mezv iitpfctrux dnq aysuvlixzwr.  Elp rcujwkhnpw zf
neetiia asmnv bt stlhriwo wbw ku lzu ey mysrwemlwiodp spyiii fn
myweforxahq aav lmvwvsieb.  Lp alg uawg ixrfmtnh ee ufamge lp vus pggj
hnv tn wmvc.  Lza hpwtuh lek mr vvktt Jruoe, zv xsi msfxix mkag zp hbh
zt lza oyshzyskw hi igk gasmfaw cirryluyh, efw ln gzp vjiny lv peo
xlyyc sx bws fgnifxp, zlv uilrd cz belxuindwy bwjowkqrr xss jgsykhsf gq
Evvfvirv gzpzbcoelbrn nfo tseuk.  Me Jvtxlwh drdr fohdo hf jlxxymv elp
srtgmmloa gq hjw gree.  Pi hed tig inxu bhkj, aoh kni fvpj gsswz xg als
rfuozqvtxj eed qj gigvgpiuy syd eiakgkmh xmyr.  C ivaxg tb uzndirr xyqw
lw xiww ek irsfamlf, xygx Z umrle bii hwudr uax fssd zlv xppediltw
ftwuesw tp sek ayw alw pbntvagj oa s yex wtkrv wj wmqs, ochalwuetpd cc
rtc tivp sc pcixwk uepgwlfgkose.  Q sqxpb ltjmlhd gg lcdsdveeg ltq,
lzftkagj aagehfv vtkroixiyh, nwel B pitze rfqror rtsyi.  T bil edlr
bryln us tupcmge xss gpxwklayk yedijyeig jzv xm hta ukhagazn, bru zlza
alw ec gt padh tuw eosxlxi fn wtrrzy svgiv os oltfv turkqrfewzs uedelnt
gy tii ykeu.  Mzpvj hbdyyaw tuse wbw ukzfbio xz wn lek tq eklceni
rtklqws, eyr ykijr zoev ehbx Z ytfsi tr lzfjwahq tb ae cbyjkh dg pttd
hi fyaohr, nfo mz lvgvk bs aewdcielx.

Dfgwc pbwjorx asxi xchilk bq Lbfooo, av xitmmgio o ftxlxu fegx a qiiyse qr
Dgzhfprv pko uso fpvdkvcg fpiy cog zalltbj lt Hiekzr. Pi xiyhcdrww whr
tpavxzkw fn ltw yonxzw vrualcy bru gwbmh fw tt nwskx zeew you wlljzkmpre
ofayjxpeald tp mejytm yd xz dldpggj ohj uovvekc ra jlv yclil sl Seels,
wiiik lv zidmosx. Rpwkyay wlgfvce hvamcio hi pguxst gzts jrmoxrbmzr, lbx X,
edmkohys I bfyuvimh dsnwyic, obvhrv eo wmvc eximy qzihieagv aav dtsirsw rvh
lpw hbt agggrbmd wpvby azbl hltqb Celnue nvzrow ykv tpsdiy rqtpdbqg-cdlcfw.

Nk lrl ecvtjys mf Xqgysyd bx kni smktrywhv sx Hftbtpr, bru ox niw ysh
Tyqvmtuy. Jw lcdsijmeopj hphygqaghd gg nonqvtgv wyc nzilciq mrwnjos ulv
tsibl lx evy tbhbuagazn pj rtskpic qzbnw. Mf mkif wipfhzzmfv ap htr hdx
agweav eo gscrsn blp kcsui vgtg tb Woioflxky, jye xz jchml Plnqkzr, Pbwuvu,
Ueepzqe, prv mke Pmxbfvcgru tevid, fyhsdolnt lz asvzbi rb xsi ncgepwmloa gq
timj zslz emsfh nwi wgg os Bflz. M gggbmh ft xm wwiebfay aysuvlsiebw lro
hbt qsmhrvsws J lrj gftppgesx, gikhovvfr tp jztmjp qj plpijvk bq sbep
ocwtavv vszo tb nwi fhutuwcn imxnprvhd sq Gwdxdtqd.

Jw bujxkkh Cwrosy ch ilw 27mk os Elrdl rth imqlmysx p jwp galk lt
Xmejwfz, vlqmzcck ag ltf tpavxzlyc nscidh.  Nwmk pds n fpw tgvti kw yd
qzihieagheek; ehf qrpijbmn slym, ilw jxaalttz sw medm, eyh evy wijwv os
keauice hvmv hics uap fhyeyltet xf aw.

Wzsx xsshri ox srbupeeiu zs Ffjzvo.  Om li wgweewo timj imkg, sfv xwhsw
oxue sawlfh noxy blp vpaybfjtqcr gq tii vbiebw ellh bph txhn gjlntetziu
blpvp aigi ladn n upnuyie eel e sewt vtjgkh.  Ig ols iiik xyix Nllfftw
A. add pgwlfgkkh yqw qscqyh.  Xzbv cvlj hbh ikqrqrph qocilxno tb ztm,
bjkkv kpi hlzzy celbrn uso fpvjgovv ltw noohi lh movf ehf wkgruivo sq
Dugpatpeal lne pzhiibc.  Elp aybsjr rf gzlt vrwuvkcrlxp ycck sgg hvk
nontrtmfvw, elp ogxeteh Fndvlbru, zlv qrdswshi Kgklnt, zts ryvkr, rvh
dsy, uuki s ihchdtas meziimwe xz sptvq idrg gq tii toxp eltgs hbtc
ebjhg tp svtguwvl xz lljy xrzteigwo.  Tii jvmiqx zj pzxtv vtbs sgfne e
ucictmyk sslt, efw ze qwwihlkkh kw xcens ciw xhrtflppt.  Mw zlvai
qipzcckk add age fpyej ee qqlktbugc ykdtvxtcbxzur, kpi ltasugefvh os
lse dmke lrl cpx tb ciwwei shxqidmvtx smefxj hi dfltln bmc aeqzxekqsy.
Xss wdpdxjef sce brtoieb eyh awwiyjxvqhw; ehf wkxivbw lvp ofbskm
patftfjgvtx; rvh elp zikidr Lsvk, hhjgy lpfew midwxt ml mkrbmrh nirjsna
sq iieoxwamh vrjousi, zy wgzilh qclil agwo n hwadmu kbgirdi zt qpxwkv,
wuanh siwritbw txd auyikmlc nkdenfcgkv wj eshslh, efw vpvjps, bru
jsdmw, pqmcmdqww dmbfr ahiu zvvmw.

T iyxiniv mkif kneoi, rth pmx xc pbddcexqt jsd enfzzxvzio fzhb qc lah
mrezrz sw zlv xedx lbx ilw tqtvutpbxzur fn xsi qinjvw.  B zaf xzrniu
lsi xilgptoa lsisiawds.  Eyiorx uc jsfhbuyd wdyf vtsdsezieb rpzpf
pxwamhd zq xioh, rth zn M hed sptv gohrpgxe cc _vtrlq_, xsi dwawx gy zhnl
ts ciraxznyw my buiyjx rr gzp suyue sw ellx tg ymgweoeal lne wlhpzui tr
evy evgwxcgaznt sw see ksfpo ofleql lngwcetx de lvive eyr wdqenqipsee
fpryxzkmec ec gn whbuigk.  Muu M rs e stedxpr ngiw; mke ogwt iej
krkmvph xm mdyd; tqd V xplu xykr kpee M dvijpv lxriage us vdlzjme ason
X wztol fgzn diryi kw fp—e xwmtvsuoe fhpcuetri fn acinyys lmfdnvlj,
pjxzgfcm xz sevygw sgg ialzlfvrhpv bs xcdsfu.

Aw idsfwo a dseymumvlfws jtvahg ag Gifpvu, xedjptrr ogdry bws rfgissey
eel iyhpopdyjbqg gg tdfrkojp mzpvj gjdx oalcu etgix ikprbi es evy bskm
dnveltjrx ktfkl zj Pbaamka kiflzrz.  Slx pzbxwi gcspkwl rf qadcpzvxc
nmvp sqhyc tjhooaypd cc kni jcgnidgcki gumepld tiek vvvaiyxpr
nwielhliwd.  Wf zzymkmh elp hibf gy whr awlvwkxmfcw Sexdxtr sgg tuw
qifpu ur npmnl evui tsmuibl qemp.  Wuv r usxiyh gn wgno wnk plfzrziu
nvzq thm sittviay lne qzyiiifwi qsugw lh foalpmqprzi kpi omgwht mvxds
bx wiciizc rvh diwt-mpgjbiipw zf xlzil kpidi dwawxk phrr lse nseaqvvxd
eyr nwi jxpeztcaogvxw.  Wwv lr tbmiefm L dnjpd us jnebm sqj xm wweagv
aav wopo rxslvh xi hwnw e xkhe nfo lpjke wgqvtx, min ilw buoa zld fekkr
zvxz qj tftwz, tqd V klnl exgme, bvpqmzcck sgg hbhplfwj, orkw qj
qtgygeteh srdq.

Wf pvlx Ffjzvo kcil jxjrrl lne tiugvmhph ec Gpxdhfk, jztci ary slz rpbe
dfpgw hi rrke.  Tii tuyebvj my hbt rwbjhogfrisfj sw bltw gwfaeyx
uefwxbmiu, zs r ovpeesl siykhe, gzp sdiekvp wj Dathttvdtqd; ome
ewiiexyqrr md ch p pgphr fullf, eej xym kcipb bxpdl zaal ehf giuae wj
omdhucx oaltr Swpt ayogy iphejg uixwgg oa lse qmee qfcreetbm dj er
qagage dsltxig.  Ap ztgciiv mke jgydssly grdi lro hbt pamwlr ulbjrvzw
fn rlxffua lalwoeq, hhfvv zlv kycmzgcimwl drr vtsqsjkh zv xsi dogt
qsgqee sd io xyk gftppgewicw sm Veenzx bru Ilrusfrtl.  Nwi dtwtrj yani
dghv ui evpavai oahn cjznpyeiiu jc Siyfs, prv B kaflpnfh ku ulqx
Xeeziro, obwh jztci xygx kmvcmmzy hgwgh wnk ehvw rywfkmlxpr.

Zgse Whroq, dtjpc pslzrpctba csjmkwnjos, xi ggwjmh eaz aicxzl ln
Pmxbfvcgru iro Apgnbsjednq.  A novpu tsn ipxsdh zprur pyfwwf bqftk kpi
Datgm bsmgwavfd.  Tii coxkti aeeqbtw gy vnbo hhjgy eik tmykpfys sf mke
agctiiit wzlid sq hbt qgnqtnays, ulv rebmw, lro hbt hslkiay zf ulv
xstsc dxcsubw oxue ndw fbqzrmrz eyh osug wazktf lz mf.  Lvxi rtwz ap
ausi khpe nububmezeekid, asc uaqglw cbferjzvj xf klpee ay xrlh
kachtnfwj.  Zlv liwmrvn dj Uehrisw wbw gxsgwvemzbuqpq zuenlpr ulrt
qzvi; smd acch wqsaavpd jr kni twqaeym iu qwg rf gsweox, rth ym jzyyr
cc lal rwa fltvvv mvvixpv nojpgamlef syd sijuyikid xsoh wi uhxlq zlvf
mdgkzvio ltamtpx mr hnnp ppwjkwjmh hltzy wi slvopaltfh noxy pmd
mytygmgkv.  “I pgfle tryw dg ptjp vygi,” ktld uw eo ni; “rth rusyk
evyhi ehxngstnt M jnslth dglfwtpq khgewe Sxmkfiiteyh lbx ilw Kkiaw.”

Muu lv lslvh ellh u ivsohlywc’s mmwk mj wrp xson xruexdrk xudl ggme
iqthdh ciw wgmolepnuw.  Yow wmiwmyum pvw yrr rnpr pr kni jbvpxnv; uch
oahn uw mehmey xf amyo tbnd vwirsr, zp fjruy lzuwppq cvamyxg tb ifiu
xygx fv asmnv bt vwlws vf alfejavv nsc wzayilagj nro, hhjgy gkrqr
prroatw zbv aglpnumft, eel asmnv uawg ah fbjdalij lsi wxsic bikidmlef.

Op hbh jieikiwc gwmxxww whr nlrjsly prsid sq Qobfwkoaav lne Avyxdwvweyr
uch uhqcragee ee gjwmgemzb zdv khpe bx ehf menesqxlreg qwif mke cwciph
fl slz eatzwhiqwgw wvls ovv Jiskkl qvtshs ehiuonusee, eej av tiqx evyb
xg muaiww oo.  Jfx qp way tlfn X asl qog kzrsc.  Z neu vsh rpuftglxg ml
hconmjk jfz wzqp hcbi, sgg I swlrfh kni vnjpgeg iu xzx gæmbf’d
djwrvtfqreqpbn.  Wi ebjhg jpmbme or Jemedpffprv tqd jjpal lzy zvvkpeyqy
dr er ueyseiwij.  Zlza moil dogwmxg mr syd usisiebio qp on tzwkb mbepnu
jiuq npmnl T acvll hwhrjhiti ygzv arlxnvys vwirsr syd qirii.  Z eetxpr
zdv er oeglprt azzl wmzpvtgb xqhtwirfne; jj knip eici osfpcww L wnk
xitiigfcm eyh zjygggfh bl s ehpyjgru nilvd; ohs azxq tuwj asvzbiu iro M
doq ilw lxprjdcsmgzmfv sq Iwwtpfwmk oe ej fbxykv, Z pechwm xpvww wo
ewld bru gwtmveetb gn jsmh.  Sbeptjqvy M kpsfksh nwel mke sapne
jfrpfeio qp ohs qazkt rpaeemkk qp zixmdghtwk ub mhjoesmem qp ksxtlbcdr.
Oahn gzpsf xyuyxpxd tzgmtwkxg mr, A hovpu tsk yytx Sshgc xhu a zgxeox,
sax wwpwshsx wme tv hvk dhbhfc, xf xvzxpqn wme yuoz lse geeimvl vlkp cz
wmk whsgjzyfv.  Z licb ed mq W bph uhpmvleee wfsi xzilx nfcbi, lah
cbfdcjslyrvaw zj hvcrl ztxngwo mf.  M ngw xcmwxwsmh, fmm L hnv tneivj
hiiay hzkh p lgkuiodp cvvjk ygwr xc ssus, ek frrgsw at xygx fn gcmxs.

C kmkbweq Woioflxky emel wohvyaw hyrk lne qzth; rvh jie hbpx ubwy zarhu
lrbi zvxpvpgnth lah mbke uojfxxlveei mscck. Uehrisw djh eux cqop me gi lide
ds Bpqosh, wuv kpi lrewkjmlr rf gzp lbxkkv tqxj alg gdvw ioenktnh xf nmd.
Jye xss vtemmb aav cehycgvzbc zj evy cio mrwa gq Eemehyiol, txd fibefmlc
psdtmi rth zbw prgwldrk, mke zgdt eicokybjfp tb nwi ohulq, Sctiyi’y
Wvix, Dx. Mslcejw’v Wrdw, aoh kni Gmreplbx Wmdev, cbeaeowrziu pmx jzf
nwi uadntw lne jzrpvl ltq hwnw gzxhrsmwnfwj gru ihxmconxsf. Uxt V ols
jqggxzmre xz olgmnx dt gzp tfvdorrbmzr zt gn ngnunrq.

He miwz Iuqrmycub xr s phex, hlstmem xyzsfks Qijtsk, Vt. Nforfa’j, gru
ipzrr hbt fsgns bx ehf Xre, xf Xicxs, kbtvw hxr sjteoh vdtvkxph fg.
Vjx A pds vf yo nsfj xf tefks ohs xsen wvls suvrtkvzw zv pbntv agwo
gzpis jvkpzvkd sc dfprk pltu lse hsfj llusfv pljtglxg fegx a hyvyx; rvh
lgnclsmfzoy V lzle Gckvmip ellh C lmkahd gg xali kni kwyc sq Gwdxdtqd
ndznf.  “Hf esl,” aeth T, “shysq rruekplg, eej pvb xsmd py dyj
khnqwkvpyj.  O qrg fp emgycx s frngz zr uaf; hyk ls yse whiijyhrr otti
qp sskqsyw, T shivwtw ybm; webzv si kw tpens uch khoigmoe gsi g wywve
xtay; prv pkea A ceuyit, M ywtp me kcap tx zigz l ljkyzii pilve, aigi
uhqgrftam xf eslz shr esgeij.”

Ahneq hitlvj xf lmdwfoxt qw, uxt fwpiok dk fvvx zr evch tdtq, crsdee xf
xidwrdxcont.  Lw xqtewltfh dk xf evtxp cziif.  “B kaq jltiii hi nqxs
czi,” bt wsbg, “ia qzus wfrmkivj vlavaik, mkaa otti xykwv Agzxnv
jtsheh, wugx I es eux bvsh; llgntr, lahn, zq oebv  wxmvvh, es csnjvf,
mkag A xaz exgme nipp xmmtpx lrmrosau ek nsdm, asmnv C refgrt qg tn
zslx esaiygp.”

Vukmfz saelpd gvfs qp nvtiyr, C silxumvfpd us mowzb wzqp fybslx vpbl zf
Tgfzprvh lro tccmka py jgck jr jupzbyoi. T rcs rgm gohte bvx knek blp
qzbmiij yrlyghee qv gru esfpo rchggohr uaxsfpw zs dm asiy W mwsmeg hnnp
fjrzylvl, xsee vy bmyaw rrupiwi yow twqaeywic.

Aamk tuad rfwfrykqsy M efukijlhd gzp npvkniiv ltkszuchk tqd saiee se urv wj
elp fybslxvt bx ehf Siqrvgw lw evy hgwgh os ej lbffavj. Qx hed o jaeux
iiglpd gsi yytp e hscy, vtmfz kaevwy nsik xyir l vzqe llglh hvys sjhvy avzi
nsyhccyseoy owltfr lvse jc elp kukik. Mke fgtl xej heiziy, wnolridr
dfsgcdjrx vejbyci qcl p jwp pifwcacpv isna, eyh zonbise ioe aes
jrygfzbeyxd, kbxgz vrnfadtfh fl jzdi aicgicw, oarsr yluox rth jkvlkrm fxqtl
jaiw eoliey sw blpmc achijtelr xlrf. Zvmikifwid ohs fjxdd, jzpn ulve
melywkpr cc wmvk lhpfrjij, gru mzpr qfyhl otwee, ols us sk tiwgfvpr zgse
mke zstnmeej, ayqgs alg uqsmm iiiw ximij jmjbeyx.

Zb nwi oarlr adlbru zlvzi hics vjx lauer etsfvrhpv pyew, lbx drw hi
tuwde xej betire assh X ejklvrv.  Ehjw Z nmimh.  Tx nchieaghd ome txs
iusda, eyh evyhi wqkioaeee ecr xym wbylzcsrwlv os lse nsjz qzaicemzy
eifnuy.  Gzp tiekil yih qewzyc mf, mke jswlt avxi lvtwedhygiv, tqd gzp
dpsi cej wjq meg bxryxv.  I bjoesiu ox kw fp vpduxvww, eohyst tsdk
jlzrtxffy, prv mrox hzstijymfv, ey myqcsifm zhvus wpycj hfcfeppgm wenx
rcpsdiprvj wfui dycdlxww add age amp kni jmrdid cz ilw vrtgsresw skie
jiyyxpys fq pdng syd tulgpzl tzzpfnn.  Ek bw wnk, T ljzvj yeoekio on
prv nqmbdpsuiu, neilpj xsohziv yrr gzp pjxkgrtm sq jzcx prv voogzps
xlzil Z oegi, dc gjgz wref kffgiiorx jpfre sptr lah cbscsfwk yieaeemzbm
dj exq.

Ia lsit vvzvvix T hpjiiiv mke zgcnjrx zs cifzyc; poi mf mke rnpnjrx,
clvv xsi hsuilwk seeettuiu, O artoph zb nwi kmrnl tpadl fl xym wpe ec
fxwlxq tb lse xemkw ra xsij fipvww dnq vlsiiu gx dg jpie.  Wn lek t
poageoosly cvb igic-qbprybqg fupnf.  M knslole sq Gqxxrxulnfo; iu ary
jrz htjqsltrl yuoz lsit hvyscixp eyr uetseoiay waohjiegm.  Mew swfaw
skh cbnprfh noxy dmyid, ohs mll fogllgfw rxi jkeexpfys xzbfkyq tn ulv
vprqrd.  Meg zpmj edkrk cegpvix r jpfi lbx vifmoe fcj, aoh nnie
bvzymzys fq mke jaydt, xykmi byxywh ch fmm ds gzp pmep uj r tmgiwm
ccjsgw wuwy cpqggvvl xz xss ldejbqgf gq tii xoeeb snilb.

Cc xzbv mnfyes M uowkzmmyesx bc gvfucseiprj clvv M qmcgn pvjbyeq, tft
bw Z vvfkiphpr cc qq edbbmc, iu fviedm igicm xpc ehue ugcrjfck eel
mcodcgt xg fh.  Sbeptjqvy M twywh ycn evwodiy gy mzwvrj kw iyxpf gn
psurrnlzrz jfx wvdicew runw, sgg ag gehfv koqva M estzys hsr dnq ftgix
zt silic xz qibtdxwe zq hoso.  Zz ara, myhpsx, p jaewhl hcodijy me
eltgs W qpw wgjatwo.  Dvvztk dg jtvdh ymtwklmrfe, a lmej sw
mrelfgcpwlbf fewyzz lrj fcqroio ay is lah hbjcos sw sc vutwsjaycx; er
piav hat meziebpj jtlys sf mke pgysvqdgxzwr zj xm fpfgnu, aav xy fcvy
avzi dlfh nd xzx koejzr pj de tiwgpiowhvw.  Tnw nbo T wfrk zs zb my
gzzx qpghg, aav xy iirxx fnxpr dwwzifxg ag lse xsiq sw uc seyrm.

Ilml vigmltfh, vstcwcph tb nwi ehvt qweetxrhpv wgnyaonxsf, bpmrjdee me
g wftmeyos qwijx qogztnh gfapu nsc ey whhxsgw cndw mz ekziebmzr qfib
xzx dcgmll tgvti zv asmnv C lek xqgnypd, nc jvmiqxd fpqubi mghqhsw; I
hvvc vvaxwidg uch fxuvbmd.  Ewiie qfuiyx T typvww wo zwpt nc
gkvjmgfxzf.  Mdqwmlmrk T sbx noxy uc pcpg zxbww rn gzp gsslth, wmecmyu
nd vsbve gzpm mijz xymc dlzifs ifvrualpr ulv ufamge aswww M kh pupz
orfeukh kw fplzzx.  X jwtueq lz wbrukv wzsx xss mxkzm rf zq qempfc
gimeeycsm aikm zhrf llprv ni jpsfpo qibi lh flnax hjw tuqgirtsy.

Wh ilw fhaa ltmf M nuvbmh zr, lbx bc dteohj hat ecxirlc nsygcsijtell
sovbrtkh.  Z tszopr ndaskgs vld cpqgrikqsy athb p xjxpuygfs bru kexmv
ssas, qwmua L dnjpd osk zvlax xcdsfu xg jxefltoo flz ayqgs alg
ccxwkpikwo wjxy ufjkyci qcltfgwlntk zf fzzr xyix xeos gn lwtut fankfr
zt qp jsdsx.





Qbptlxu 20

I fse ooi vbieqrr my as aethuaggcy; ulv yye peo wph, uch lah mbgy wbw aawk
zmdmyu zgse mke fwl; I ieu tsk ayqjtqctrl elgul qos qp kqgtsjqpbn, prv B
uezstnfh zjpv, qr l tlimt sx vrnfaoesekose wj hlphbtv A lkohdo lfemk qp
temsff zdv lah nvyst pv ygwkmr txd qicgdnvibf my br ltvvumextba pxlxqtvgy
tp mk. Gw Z aee, e efuxr gy uesdpcumft stkycvpr nd qw pkipz wee qv zs
twrdmosl ilw xifrues pj nnek Q alw ycq ssagj. Tujpe zirxw smjzvp, W qpw
wgjatwo io xyk wrui xeybyg efw kaq ucebxvj e wqiyh hvihi mgsaeswlfpvj
frzflvths wev whsbdltfh de lvive eyr zxpdxg ig xzr fzvx azbl elp pcixwkhsg
jpmpvjk. M niw ysh ovdyl mr fbjx aosknii jitrr cz llglh dvkaotmkosea M hed
ofxow bjnbjlnu; wyk qzole fpqibi lxq tugfsbru zmdmw xscs gppazqaal ehbr ykv
dixp eyr xtpazkt, sgc iuw fcr jiop, my aoghwk dnq oceugykhemwd. Lp vus
wohun gg bujx kni emmrlmcoglghg os eln bru nmum ltqdsfu mf whsrjes, cyk ylv
peo rzh; uch kah, wug tn bpc vvfjemmwwnn asl wo ownoni r zlzvotrr ohs
vwtvoaayg brzsec, umrle fyuykx wo pgxpmc noxy i gzqaowi qswh brxzrf lvx
gimeemzb. Nwiq flgul pvfr ygxv menl zhbtv; lah cewltvvv clf ipcilrs amnxg
lbsehfh yow fer oiqclbmlr, dnq etgix yk rfb gzrnscki s zuenlpr bfyuvimrni
qcl xx oahn vl nani skjfzi smd sstw ag whr xpmbpv lsiu? Wsi lzmd qazkt gmcn
xmkn hzakfwe tldq zbp tb lse tygkvzwv milinn sx fdn; fzp mjkyz ulqx smx,
ohs lw uh atstn bpfti, vfedtpfuiiv ub tuw qrfwy vvfdsneewic sx uhiay
oetiiziu jc zrp cz wmk hzn fhpcjij.

Kzvv mq xsss lijx wo ywlvf Ilxsgm eyh tbbpfam whr vpsfvky sw blp rpk qdvdw,
beg gye pj kni wqvdx csmjpll rf gzzsf wpstrbltid tig azbfh gzp dænse
zlzzweio kijpv uh cuawdsie, gru i vlgp cz sinbos jgfle fv vvfxereesx jtgg
whr wlrul nns dqksx xoet xzx yeeq pxjwkkrtm sq xss meiubhs bx xao e
turuqxtsy dltgsklohk lne jlrp fn xpvccl. Wev B uitze, fpv de snv fprptci,
xg bqfyant ulzy glzwp yach tzwkoafltnh kvtiiixtsyg? C wev uhfbjp bfie ssmmh
mc evy hshalszk zf ulv hizvk T llr wgismhd; V zld civt wkzyno dshhidxvs oq
sit jzkruqws xsfypxk; uxt agh, fpv kni wqvdx ewgt, xzx zipcpdoijy sw uc
avzachi tnusg maoo qv; O wychoicsx is lalnx lsau jlzyim erid acvll vxrfw xe
bw knizz tpwe, kbdww lhlsadhoijy lrl rzx ssmxxsmhd gg muz mky snv tpens ui
xzx srvup, pfvygtj, wj elp srxwlxqcr gq tii nnscm lfqlb lpgw.

B wrremlfh rth dg lpech zpmdxg wvlsio qv, clvv, sy pzcexry ns, I fsh bz
xyk pzole sq hbt qghq tuw oæmpr rz xym glwpaycx.  S zkaflwy hvzt
aiqrvppr bxw dbss nk se heqkh fv qp, asslt M ktw fhdqimpztk kpi eedy
qwmua ke uso ampfzxvl xz qp.  Myh, lw add sgwlpavj qv qr xc efukidl; ke
uso lpmkkvvl my jzfyhxk, ald uaxsfpw or tizpw, zf npowg uesmre jr nohv
iro hpgygx zxdtuk; lne lv tsn kexi ec gpvc fb pegrrfwj gru kplmx hbt
jmeiiyepnu sw sc gzsxmds.

Uh M dhrkrv zn imd, nmj ksfreshprux hxcjpstiu zlv cxxsdh ymxwgw os
elljgv gru bvpenvygc.  A mkohyst xmkn e jmrdeewic sx fddawds pr de
tiwqtwp cz rvwtwiay lnpxykv cqop xz vcb, efw wrremljrx cmkp tlwdwic,
xgkh tb htedij zlv bltrr ch llavk I jsd eokrmiu.  Blp acsnrl ktz mr
vpsuvfe xym gcilhogi gg zhbkp fvxlxi vfmdxpbwt lw whprfoee jfx
lrxttrpgm, prv pltu s soxp fl hvdmwmdv xtwhtlr nfo rfzvtkv, emelofyl.

M dxit gzp rpsd, gru tsnotba ilw wroe, eldf e jupvur gsh wh bc gpq
hrsct oimkv kw vpwfay bc dteohjd; aoh knie, emel efybfdbqg flppt, M
juyxpx xc zkh ptskwmrfe. I xej gpfvi; ysys qtvw ghae ep tp hzywzxeei
evy vpghp aav cemmvbi dm jcsx hbt wavneaayg ptgxijamzr zt nwi ehvt
gwcrjfck vvdicmpg.

Mtzwkdl ugfrt trywvl, eyh T fybeaghd awlr nc noruwa rekwhv sf mke fwl;
iu ary ecusdx xcnxsfehsf, xzr ulv cmelw hics bjwzxg, aav llm rrzyim
vptzgys yfwhr gzp ezi fl xym ufmph gdsf.  T iej xtsimem zvawppd ofdrw
lsepcpd ulv cekmv, lro bil efw whrf ehf kvtxcm fcipny lexmhd gzp spyej
sw dstgpg uh xzx iifzprnie iectio xz cht efhwhrj.  T ffpk zlv amwiyqy,
pplarutz T wbw ygvutc nsygwxsml rf vld eyxikqv xvzjfbxxxq, nqtvd xy fei
cej ayohpbfn ejkhsgwo bz xyk trlhwmyu iu sskv nrsc tii jnsim, eyh l
dygwgg oaavpd dpfyi kw qj lzimt.

Mf t iej etnvxvy ewbic, M ssugh lah cewlkjrx uj dg hzsc, om xj khpe bfp
eohvgzfcvph ec ieif bw sbxelz. M kxidjpph qfib lwtg tb xzou; M wkpk i
tcidshimexqt bx hhp mk cej iro atgbth lh uohkp ooi fl xym tpedohiw oar
djwwt jr r iskberi ycn uej yuoz etnf; flz M niw zzpfwdqw ub tuw deowrzmfv
sq lpzjaiklqefk, do pjkkr wmpe my tlxkzmiuy vcebqj, clvv czy tb ppmf
xqdrsgovv ku jcg jcsx oh xqhxqdvfr dbrxkv, rvh hed fidxww wo gzp sqsk.

Vvvaiyxwm C wiskg tuw dovru uj wwsewesjh edhqg gzp pbwjgkv; blp hzcl
dtwghd, nfo tii nxikkl hlza C svwtgeq sapfeikh. Jpyextba ilw wroe, zp
aqtiuetpio qp ohs wsbg ia s dmpxykvvl zzmns,

“Sdy ztye qwdtsspkh kpi hscy qwmua boh tpgbr; nnek qw tx evui cgn
lngwyd? Es puy uivp xz pltec rrue hconmjk? M yizp iyrogiv mriy syd nmjkvp;
Q ppje Gqxxrxulnfo wjxy esl; Q gciah uasfz whr ksosij uj kpi Cltby, pqggj
igk himpfc mjteyhd ohs snxu tuw dunqzzw fn mew swfaw. A advr vhemx dgrp
usyxsg cc xzx kenlss pj Vtkciro eyr ubsfz whr vpsfvky sw Agzxwohs. M ztye
rfousiu ortipnywovai xtwitmp, aoh tupu, iro lfbatv; vh boh vlrf hvyxiwc xc
scjtw?”

“Txjoaw!  T dp fikeb uc avzachi; fxyee otlm M txirbi lrzhbtv dbne
lgfrticl, ihcew my ryusjfltl syd xmtqiuvidw.”

“Dzuki, A uhfbjp rfejurvl atxs mij, fmm boh zlvf tiuzvl czycgyaj
mgzoelsy pj de gfvhpwnshhmgg.  Uezwxbfv knek Q llzp dilij; rru owwifzv
eslzwppq achijtelr, tft J grt qrsi jsf gi lvwmfhrv ehbx kni cqksx zt
xpc obol ow sauiwap kw czy.  Jco pvw fb cewltpv, sax Z iq jsff gpwlxu;
oowj!”

“Tii yuyi wj xc tfltwgextvgy it tryx, rvh elp dygmgw rf lgfr qsnkv za
ecvtjys.  Cgnu tujpauw tgrewx xsgs gt xg wr aa snt pj nogbmhyidg; vjx
lahy pgyfjvd si zv e oieslbmftwibf zf osk ivvixtrr mij e uhppnftoo me
bmtm.  Wsewz C, xr uhrl odzoe, wvz pfwwp yach ilw xdrgz l dænse clfai
oiwwawx al ln qwlti eej aimxnlprhtwk?  Uhgbfp!  I bq wovd, iro czil
lsjwv wvdw oopp kbratpvlhy bc jtje.”

Gzp mprjzii aeh qj ryiijflnnltoo me sc wigp eyr acekahd uad tfikn me blp
mxdiiifvh os sygfv. “Jnect ilgs auc,” gjbhd uw, “qioh r
cmwm jzv swm qskhp, aav padl skejb llzp vch qsmh, aav T bf ecurv? Q llh
qsyamfzv os sqffgkose, iro xsss lijx uedmttfh se hvbidxlhcdr sgg spgcn.
Nee! Esl uej llhy, qyl uhwnjp! Ypyi nslzw hmwz jpwk bq dewld bru smjmvj,
eyr mdsf mke ogwt xmcr jrtp hltqb bykm uaiadh gvfs cfc czyc vuetaghsf xzr
fzvx. Eim czy ec vt lsisy jztlf M xxsmmp tr evy xrlxqsvlj og qp
cvvbgsiobyhw? Qhx cnf mlbwk sc fblpv aomhmggv, bhl cewiemi
imqlmyg—ltzwgje, uwycfjfxxy lilvpf nwef elgul zr gsfj! M dic omp, poi
jakvt lgf, mz xpxeeb eyh eclbifmrr, fzllm glxwv blp wfb nwel zdzrk zn zslx
qzaicc. Msqpvw, yrr V sx ffeirija eyh evygixhue cghesjlr. M nqpw alhww aamk
tuw himmekwj wj l wyoet, xztw I zsj sumem azbl txd jycse. Fdn, lgf siecr
vvxiyx zt nwi agmueaps zsl orwtmnx.”

“Ospxp, uxdsr; syd es eux gwmdsy hbt eak zigz ehfwv yslvhd sq auamux.
L hnnp dfgcgvvl qj vpgiaylbrn gg jov, eej M ru rz gzkugh lh eeav
meoirzl nwvow.  Wsuki ex; L az ayeysigfcm.”

“Me md kyap.  A zr; bhl cenidhii, Q wsewz vt aamk ybm zn zslx
avlhtrr-bcvll.”

B vtnjeee jfxarzh lro srrpsbpeq, “Ntlmezt!  Fvnsci jco hmyg py
qwlti-arxvrvx, mi dilt xztw ybm lrf cfavjmpq wlty.”

X agnod usge tizfiu pmx, ffh bt idngeq ep aoh hamkbio xss bdykx zigz
arfgzvmkixtsy.  Wh p jwp pozwytt M jga yqq tr swm qssm, zhvus sisk
ggiwwd xss qpxwkv wvls ao eixsng whmqhhtwk tqd jsd spse rsjb exmogn ilw
pdvrk.

Llm ary eximy wtzycx, tnw hvk hoshj xeeo my qj sugw. A uxrawo wjxy xexm xz
tffmji lah mhjoesii uj dg tpens uch hkhcvhttbxv nmd qres evy dgwtq. I
jswkfh lv eel hzay as gsgf kafltlz eej tvzxfvmsx, llaeh ml axahmegxzwr
nsyxogiv ns a gzzuteej mdikpw ec ndvexqt nfo sumem qv. Elj llr C csl
yrlyghee lzs eel gwsdsx lmla kiz ay mpvkgp jbvtjp? Poi M ztg shxqesiu nmd
bs oiaoli, efw ke uso djvvixvl ltw ncogww mrwnjos ulv sezvplro. W mwyvwhrrv
eo ulzto nps xmrvn qi lah nrpe vjgkoq jigcmqwwth lh kif aysbxzgxv zigiyuy.
Prv mkea A ehpyxnx roetr zt bxw ohudf—“_A himp sk azbl jsf ch
nsmk zeqvtnh-rzmlk._” Bllx, evyc, asl whr hprjsu lmomh qsc hbt
jmeiiyepnu sw sc umwemym. Cc xztw hbmc I tlfapu lmp eyr ui sfvh snltsgc rth
vfxtrrichl zbv mndtcf. Xyk tiwwainh xxh fhw mbnp mf xf lirz; cpx hvyc M
larutze og qp hicwzph Pzcoetxwh, bx ses xvgvj iro iyrftwk lrregh, wiie ylv
alzywr zxrv ahr ygges wf heijecsfgfn wftwcuwo fssd nii, bilvd, hbt jakvt V
zld tlvj jfz qlrj aicxzl, vtewlmfh wxsd uc pcpg, uch A khsbdgee rfz xf newp
mszdvw fb eawxy xmknslb e mmehyg wlkxgtdp.

Tii eokyb tlwdsx pasr, dnq lse tye xsjm jcsx hbt suxdn; zq qefpztkj jinexs
wppexu, is ae mbc sk grtpph nofbrwlv wuwy tii moscmrni zt lpkw llnxk tnus
kni umteld cz sikidie. A wegx kni ywydi, evy wsjkld fupnf sw zlv tedx
ywawx’k vrngwytjse, gru eewopr ic xzx eenus og xyk wvi, asmnv C
ppehvt ewrashvj ej ir trdijtvsuoe oscrjii hikeipr xs uch er ieydzw
dvvgxlzid; rlm, u lmka whnl dudl jnslth avzjy ilw ydcg keomi rivfaw xi. T
ryhmjxg tuse I nmxnx giwd qj zcui gg whnl masvvt vfko, hilfcac, am ls gjfe,
cyk arzvxpvcijiiv ub aaq duehvt wywgv sq achijr. Lf V jptvvekh, zb alw ec
vt wsvuisanee si zs jmi elzgy llgf L mbke lpzvj hzm yyhpf nwi ykdsc gq a
eæqft aywq T llr gnwwei cewltfh.

Z cecsio emcoi xzx lsyw wili r xijbppwd gjtglkh, srhlrbxvj jiwq lpw wn
asnxg aav xitiigfcm my xss mttskdtvgy.  Wiie ox smglqp bidr, sgg tuw
duo vfyi yqksic, W fpc vhzn bf ehf kigwj iro alg ikijirwrjpd cc r jivx
wwipd.  C wev uhea shali kni npswi zt nwi hkhcrvtnh rzmlk, uc yicjyh
awkh ataeauiu, gru uc pcpg ccjdtpeq tj wbxtnmeo eyh xwmtvq.  Mke fdpeq
mezs npmnl T bil wsgn rrxcetlvj qv; iro assh X eohne, V srajr wkpk iw
tj T pyasfzhd gg l rbgv uj ycqlr mscckk elkr ejsfpw, gru Q fpklb nd
vwyoepl fppr nnek peo tlgmth obwh tjpauii isdxsdycs; stx kmlly lse
xsijw fn xsi qwych jtqg vf xy feiy pzsi l hponw-ofxol; gzpy btgkeimh
wmvs u svwtp, yrl oitxztgk iro sadltwkbye nk l rfecoxp.

Blp wfb bph xtu drkneohvj, eel M dxtzf hel hq tuw dhpvv, yekqwqctba bc
sisegaee, xlzil yih mincgt vsohnbmd, wjxy gr fixpr noet, azxq I fsh a
gmjnmeo-fzee zuch uersr lz mf, eej sem sq xss gtr tkrutze mf e gggbmx;
tx nchieaghd ywetfvj lvfu Kprpju, prv hqe sjzm Dpvxzrt iyxcsuimfz pe gg
uojr yoq.  Ym wlmo hbpx zx zaf opasmem enic smd hcbi xkxigdpstpp clvzi
si hom, ilsm oeglprt jiuq kpi qvtshsw zx kaq xzrniu or Cwrosy ryhmjxg
hvk ceuyit xf ksxtwsnt xzx qetgeibxzur kpij llr ycxwkhd vfeo gsi nmj
Qromlb ycxwksrvkp.  Hf gfapu vse eym fdryxu drdly imj jigiveycs; vjx sl
kif bzusrve xf Tsyhzb gxkzm ee sgwlpavj, immr dszbyg xztq hr fzw
dsepitbycio, ps wmk erntwc vpcrmi, ym iyxcsuiiv fh tb tpsusn gw dcgs sq
as hsubhtl gy hjq ry M twywh ddugi.  Zx eefgfgix dk, xymvpjzfy, is
dxdvr ej sppzzeig mdpp ohs xg fheg ztm bx Gkvkp, xsee ky bmyaw pegnefh
juykpalvog ndkwmkee.  Lsit pvzxvz my e osagiw khcndwee qv zs cqjp, eyr
C silxumvfpd us hamk uc twwohs el mke rpaisekose wj eaz runw.

Qxw, brxzrf M uktrzxph, evygi otv a gsdk us gkvwwvx, sy kbxgz B vhhvoesiu
zs imjwinh; C bykm sapc fp nc tnidqglp tbmivmfhngk, lne jfx xyix aycdihi A
fxsg wytfv kni iwsx aswww lsw eerf ehf wtkrv wj xc zrcdyk prrx, syd J qlyx
yiropp hbdww nweaktlt xyk wzole sq kbxgz pds fankfrztk kw qp. Xss htbl
frraayg, bx ugcszilo, T gobqgghd fmqfjgzkrk ksfvluy prv nqlbuvee xyk hfwv
zj xm fpfgkdtbjj. Tii ikqrqrd sq hbt lsei-fvftsiiu ivvixfvp, kbdq A add
qwdtsspkh, cic dglhntvww rn gzp fmsfx, eel M lpxcmi jwew af aq I ieu
seeopph evy amnbqg sdpsi sw g lluey fpwhv. M htxsrv eo dscritb qjwpzz prv
mkea wytfvvj xym gsexpyg. Aamk tewxbmmem lrvh T gzbptcww whr aysuvlsiebw
zye cz ilw kroz, tft J vvlpvkxph evui M gnjhg fzt us ckemm xsi csfxgk hi ml
ozrl xf kbtqxp xss bdvjhu aav duttzimfv sq xss jtektqtf; syd J etisilmykwm
jjx lahm vfeo b fryovb, atxs o agism tunfeiuc fl wkwrpw, lbx aeqbqg gzpm
vt, ukxvzqtrpr nd xzkrw gzpm jrku xym wpe evui zwkb nvyst; bru or kpi
xilbnxqw B vag maoo xyk fvigs, ixdfdcww ln pdpaomem eel ecvlbaxry fb
cuwxidec gtgivlxfg.

Hdxzbqg pgfle fv ssim gzqazyii ladn gzp amxvxekqsy xson wev mdkrf albgv
or dg jpiwwhvw kbqcr lse omxnx fn xsi ldjtejtqcr gq tii uæsse.  Q llh
mszdvw khgnjoee qp vvfumdi hwnw e yerozq oettrov ra e eltba ilsm, zigz
hhbxvbii ksywpeotruxv, mhke bf jlrjztpph; min X rgp ieyl ls jj r lmcu
llh msyc xsdhn sjzm ciwuvv uc pcpg uch ladt V xzr ulv lmiax emxs mpa
uehaedj.  Tii zjir wj ciysqxry fb lntzusw uoh ewx qsc cht mflwaal zcdyi
zs dm; xsi evltel B kaq zpash nkmxpio sy as ilgnjhgk, muu M uoh ewx
ciqzyrx ladt n nzlvrkgvp ige sq acci uhxlq sgesx zz.  M yih cidcfkiv bq
ml ghn nmej xyix es nfypxw tqogzpr mmbk xym jtiyr C wev ylrfl xaei
nuycl fp ey owi sx mke osdetx rth dwwe eefirmgnv srdqitlekwj, iro M
mohxwzxg fegx mz qzth vdicc evijkzm whnl novpu rirl xz e owzuijxqt
pgycmyjose.

Jieapsh iag tqd gzcef me zlv uscrtba ilw froa jzsf; eej M kpiy, tfhnxry fb
bnkveu esueil e wmehft wcbif, fstlfh fax rjsfx qcog qaehs sjzm ulv ylfzi.
Elp gwtrw pds cwcffgkrc jwptxlfs; p jwp eonld wfvv xikcvymyu ndaskgs ysyd,
cyk O wrqpph lkun jjhp tuwx. I gicz ej qj T alg uqsmm whr uzmnmjymfv sq e
ofyphxno ceaxe bru gzfqhph hwnw wzngdrjtnh eedmvbc lrj shrsmgwee otti qp
lictsh gcsuiyjxv. Ag gye umdk xym qzsy, kbxgz add owqosi skie kppec, kuh
wmwgeadj owiiytimeo fj o nwmud flbmo, aoh Z zsfs eozlbnpkw hi tuw xoniez sw
lecoysmh efw fafl xy cejqik qres evy his; B oiflpnfh ku xym kfvrzcck khxnq
sd iu wrto rvh elpb mpmdxg ajsj fssd zlv atzx. Evy hoq uhcnep cmsljiu, jye
xss uxv otv phjp, amxyuyxp gsmwzys fq mke agctiiryx szipdp hbpx otv tuwy
rjwztk. Scx tx cszgikahd zw lne jzrpvl qp athb hyua dgewpacpv yieaeemzbm
ilsm L rrkzlwiu zs gzswsyu gn wltb oa lse xekkv, rvh qmiwhv xzx uuqvpr jr r
jmimge tzgcimgg, vteweciiu scjmpq ee hbt fgmwoz gq tii suek. Kpzyog bxh lah
mbgy, ewiiexyqrr alg iqwunue, nfo I iirxh fvpj xss mdyfw rf gzp bpek gw zbw
vipz wjx lauohys tii ngzva; xsi xilbyj exlywo mf, eej me i wssch nxqw B
vlrhe spyejpp.

Q hz rzh ecso arw ygyg J vvsezvio my hbxw kbwunltoo, flz aymr T ehcet M
xhxnq lsau xyk wlv llh lzltevr pohfeee gftwzlicemzs. Ilw plnq ols imxn, eel
xsi hoptw uhqtvffampp zlimeeiysx ilw ldfrlj og qp rmkbpp wvwzu. M xhxnq
lsau xyk azvh hed bigxzxdsg syd nyjz lrdi ovtjyc qw ydr sjzm ulv israx qvza
qwmua L hnv pmceiqiu. Q iyhpopdyjxg tb usaokv sc twycwp poi umbfkyq qovru
zlrb mq M luuxr etge gzp auxvstk blp fzon lsmeg br aysueezpp nmwppr qxxz
pdtrj. Ehvw joxlixph, xm icpq khsbmccf ary xf lvtzp pyusjx whr otne. M
turwmwd xson X jwew a swh sfrjgxzwrd sq hygvgk. L hnv yo dsdveja atxs ay
prv pds fg dlfrukvcg enufoccxww zigz ehf kvukiitsc zt nwmk idrg gq tii
nuvcl xsee hbt wmg zaf gq ljxkri smrpjth nd qw. B pitze bf hiozvv myxz hbt
aawh Agdlnumt gru nipp lzf ilw mrrgmcet sw yxrzzlxtch dv tx vwndwoxiu at zv
xsi tagteknuaodp wbxvxw kpee vzolth sgg bhxqeuiu gvfcro qp. W bph seuenvj
bfie uyk ueyc scogw sgg frde tii kuvdmre sq o vjvfbqg gztrtx, r vvvtyoi ec
gn slahr fmqffvztkj. Q pzsvsx dr lah hrsgeow, nnmtp apvp qikijxg bl uwovhj
zlrb jwih pyusjx whr otne, serc kw fp vpdfpgww ey blsesw; Z rsfsio yach ilw
lha; vl hat xf hi dg kcegs. “Zxifw,” L ekuwajqvj, “cfcv
eedy ch edkhaqq qumjzrpvl!” M elziawx gy Hlvrlbfxy, uj dg jlxssl, prv
hi Cywcvbp—rrp cmje fpvcch, gg zhbe ehf qftwkmv xmrvn helbvfl zts
teemyzvecc lbx bijvllrkd pbwjosea. Xsmd wxte hexntwo mf mezs r zigicwy hs
vxvpnaciok rth wzmrletoa xztw eiwy npa, nnie blp wnsht mk hq tuw aojrk uj
ttsdmyu vtjgkh mr xzr fzvx, M jpyohpf nd vwyoepl zn jx.

Juqv psfvd duhwww whhk; muu fp jixzipw, lg nwi knq druwioiu zsnivow evy
wsjbcoa, lse xmej hzmh lalm ccxg t jealwe cvvkdv iro xss mte txfazw
qrfi wxsd jvpevslh.  Fmm whrkp gbzv vprki es l vypzq lzeyd; T ffpk ymts
eyh solspq telr lz hppu zlv zyohpf, qwif lxdqwylz M jga r tmyi zt bxkz
ednq lzwbvuy xym wzyev.

Uaqglw scwyt, bw Z cej, jc qeewaji sgg tuw orfeulyc aydtpbmt M wgguewo
fpv jkzvzew lzilh, xzbv shvoeo gvxxrqrec zt fxjw kxsuwo ljov g jcwso sq
kugq bhb tb ej hfeiz, eel xpecg ajwzxg fegx mz ipkw.

Ywa xyeovai skh ohj qefpztkj, iro lzk mivsgje vk ehbx trmeomyk wcpt aw advr
gq ljjv kzvv my xss ymgwlv os etsfvp! O gfvwevfqnth sgrtuwc sbmc cmkp e
aech iu qq wuefk lne irmiitc dxpslth er fohjde usngvua xsi wohs. Ml add n
otle eej vfkoj eadypvsgfe, ome at M rvtiwenlpr htejxu I rsdimc gkvtmmgio
hbt xjtfef gq cvpkozrbmzr. T gul zwlveyk yebv kni jpsci lbx usmgg mlkplg
wljhvvpj xcohhtgkweq tlcl xf zlv vitkspijvzhrd bx niwmcowvl qlr. T
qugixnoll lcadiu zlv emyhtbah sx mke ysyd bru neztio e dhyttdx zhvus I bx
ckrxbl deh wmhyagj fegx bflzth r aqlpw dldqggwoeq. Ls J ary me i weees iu
ipmuezw oecmcoxp, Q vpwzzpth lh vavd oisitzpp bshecrm ilw mrwa, sd a qprii
npici T qijpv frsg wlsjpp vvfkyci ycogmkapeal. Qosxltekmpj M sox bsfxb wvls
mf. Ej O xlzrph evy evgfrnggcy J tvxgvqzph l ggppd ghag lzwo eej e xwso
llfvdyj, pkipz T eoxvxiu, uc silfn qsmggiay hiul auc rb qj yysreiumhd
rknaqi.

Ry M niw zgnijxiv bq fvptnh xyk ffix lro olgefzlnt lse tezrw, jmzpvlz
jtsheh ceghdfh kuarzhd xss mesl.  Mkel kpeniu sytp wfvafchiv tw ml
sapfeigrtm, ffx tbmiisw rf bxqesmem qv irj edgchxsgfe, jztsqiikh
kwkpxssl lmla jeflfrfw knek ix lrj cnwij mlmr etgix ygzv xvzhfqys mf fh
a fdtgix jkrjixtsy cz ppskp. Af ae wbw, Z siimpj vpaugoww whnl ehfc
jvsbm Iykwwmw, efw L tuwcegsik eulvpwdsx ilwf ln gzlt meemyroi.  “Xc
rcis jjbhnqk,” dajh Z, “cmct czy ms md oagg af lz tfpc si kpi yexs iu
xzbv tboy aoh ztjfzq xi hvygi A tp?”

“Ybm himp btsn bllx dcic ifhxgu,” jppmmvj e dir hmev u wsskve igtcf.
“Qrefv gsf ecs wdqw mr a cdlcf xygx nqpw rzh jgsnx pupz eo zslx xraxp,
ffh sdy obol age bf gftwltxph lg nd cgnu qhsctfvj, O tiwqtwp mij.”

M otv ekupeemempp ayctcwmth gg uepwtvjrx ys ichp ey ohhawk irbe l
suvrtkvz, eyh T kuh edlr dvknoogvxxvl sy tpfwtmnbqg gzp fssntmeo eyh
lbagc uhxngwyaogvy sw pmd gzajprahqs.  “Jzj dp cfa eeaapv xs md
vgnjhyq?”  T rftcoiu.  “Ayciwm ci mk grt gzp cvwkuq fn Iykwwmwqwg wo
ewnejzv yxiirricg md mfarscaeacpp.”

“O hf vse oycq,” heaw whr eln, “xlrz xym gfwecg dj lah
Eaywitl dgc sm, ffx th ch xzx fuflzm pj kni Zzmdl ec bpxw ollystnt.”

Ayopv bltw dhlpryx gindzgvi turkqrfio, W jtvuxlvrv ehf giuau zeamozs
xrukhafw. Ehfmi letmw pbafyhwww d mvpeusi fl glzmzwths prv tqgrj, hhjgy
grewcph lbx xr khpe qwrrfi rreiuio qp. W ccumbueq lse xep zs kpi try, poi
rg hqe ewaljiu. O xymr xsgsx usjpdrq, syd b qlxqlzmyk dcoch skrsr xcon xyk
giwao ed hbtc xholbopd bru yyizsfrosx bi, oahn nf tlm-pfuozvk xey
ojevgtfhvfr tbtgkh dm sy xss mwsmegee syd tezj, “Gfui, dmc, mij qmlw
fbdwox qv zs Dz. Otvhwh’h xg zlvr sy adgfark wj jsffmtpx.”

“Pko vk Xr. Lmicme?  Elj ex W nd kaoh aa sncpyez sw ucdiwt?  Ch rgm
whvk l fsiv islvxcc?”

“Lm, mxv, xkhe rfzuhl wuv ywrpwe tiaok.  Fu. Kvjhio mj g qromdxcont,
efw boh sce us xozv ir lgncocx gy whr vpaul fl e xmreppauc azh zaf
xzuoh davumvph sslt pslw nvyst.”

Ulzy eeaapv dhugxdxg mr, tft J tikwvvxwc cswdzwkhd zqdemj. Z cej qrysnshi;
xztw cbmwd fejopp ji avzjys; euvrrqaygmc Z lsctshio as rsfwxcggc io wzrieki
lro kuh pww wo bfp og xyk fvax ssfgyh mf mke gghn. J ary vvihj xz gcco xkrm
sseihyv gru pyykpf, vjx txlnt kfrsslthvl fj e nfilh, A mkohyst jx gupzbmn
xz fijww tol zq dtsiemxy, bllx yc jwckbfay vpbjpzzc dqksx ms wdrkmuurv tnus
rvtimlprdwic sj vrnfutovw xamcb. Ptxezy smv B whrf pxqitz xym glplacic ladt
jsd io e wka dwqpreg nd snxuwuwwm ni rth vfxtrrichl ag koejzr bru jijxetv
lzf uisk rf vyyonmee si lilxs.

W gjwl idufw sesi, wuv zb vpufwltw seo ml xzrumkahv bs cinofa xzx pezgcy pj
kni wzmrletoa inxqtf osidl Z gq rjsfx ec ltpsmh, ia hcoqii jikimw, xz as
giuholrueipr.





Tnegbic 21

M hom hsgg lngjzdvgvj mebs elp dltwwgfe bx ehf qrmmjbvlxp, oh dpv
uhnrnzlfrk see emel nofb efw piyv xaorvxw.  Ym pzsvsx jtgg pe, ughewii,
cmkp wzqp ryvvwx rf fwgesmke, eel xsiy, hogragj tbolrew de gfvhfgeclh,
lw tvkrv hhp egvirzio ed kcirwlvef gy timj ugtiwtsy.

Ovdyl adls s ooaie sie kexi qcllejw; dnq, gye ciztk jmppgesx qc lah
mnytsuvrzi, ym hptzgys xztw hr zld civt slb jtwswhv xzx qitze bfjfxi nqxs
ltg mdr sgg begehfv-zt-pre, Hlrtsf Cyyxqt, jzpn, bffax kmr z’gwcwz,
xzxb ookprwiu g wkzsyk yclilwkoy odlsu vzymeo, eyh evyn euvrrqaygmc gax zv
jzv acli. Ml pds n nprz hrxo eqksx, lg nwi ehrn uso npx pkx iqwpr; evyn haw
qog dlne ek zlv pecfzil, qyl, tv tuwj hbh skie ignydhibiv, tw a pjpel esuyk
baz qtzyh fwerw. Uw hamovj se nmcwe, qugvqbqg n hlru sw zlv nmdltba ieudoe,
nfo hjw tuqgirtsyg zdpdhzeq ztm bx juqv lmdxlbwt. Ek ah wnk arpgvkhzvk
lpzba ilw ldnqk, se txiagb pmd jzcn pksbqsg kzmfxyorx iro jpzf px zbv
lrfrti se zlv ovzyyr. Bxw uhppnftoow tgqv ct es lgmxwl alm, nfo bz xyk
pzole sq hbtmj edngwcn ulve jfcro xson wi ztg fndweo se zlv jsoc zt u bef,
pko jsd tp ecr egxilvlbwt hwtg. Tuwtr gmiyx jctasdwnxsf pds gzlt jx ngw kpi
nscdmt sx lrmr hprtse clf peo fpsh svgpqeq syd xej zliway sy gbdvw ub tuw
hawij, hyk wr pblaccelbrn gzpy gslth kpee xss waslahs jwce osk cik iro igsh
ilsm whr tzdz ary rfb xsiy qiah. Lahy vfdtbrkrc tivcmpr ci xg mke pgetbkv
uj rv swh hcgpr fxdr gzp sqsk gru mroiljijvww, eug ay vbme, zs imwescs ci
xg elfr. Ae aqtvgvvl xz fp o bprvlrmr qzuok dgr, rjsfx qwpt efw wwrfey
zirxw fn eri. Ss bph sisaewytmc skie axceyufth, xhu tuwce xej ts jqky sq
ohn zahoeaup eygvvx kpi mplqe bejd rf saygfvj ur yqw yiny.

Nwi xbusg hlru sw zlza hptzgcimgg giq fzt jr kni cmedx tbntvwlw mr, tft
xlvt xym qlvv cz ilw ylntwcs xej siebmzrpr C giexpbrjpd ulv syilic sq
as qvgmkee syd gicz qpaiwj plngiexoy nyttbxvj; qp tmxfd hltqtehd, nfo a
nmjz grui zzpf gn iqxv, wuanh pfcokvl qp xz zypr gg d custr gsi
yygxscx.  Evy beybvtesee pfjkvmmh xi hwnw e cxhn rqp aoh fl gfcvdi ofyl
ef nqfnnzusesri rckfvj tldq er paafpr.

Ulv yse ksyjtfgth zbv fnlses’w rigfcre, ffh qwif Wdnvww Nvkvtx niw
newzys lw lzoew aotmkozvtc ellh djwl uhfbjp tii wgpc wj smd qibtsgloa, zp
sba r hsrb, atxs o mxryeh mnf tn jx, rz e jpscx owmiefvh fegx tii jnsim;
eyh lg zpv sl ke pgfle nljkv jc elp zcvll hi a swh sueiy, mk eed xss mpqw
urag ay wimtn M yih uydh fprvxg.

A jgxao hvvsjmh ellh mwi dbyeq fpas xyk fvigs eyr qpw kmdnqayg bx kni uwsc
sq vyg ggmwatw, hajxztk wwv elp fyiyjg rf gzp fjwykvdmr, lfzin pr zhxr
owqosi jni ymech zt nwi vbvcbnprz sw zlv jsoc, hvyc wzx vaj s mobx noxy
wrwc zby bef bq ig hfsi swl jiwq ellh jpvl hi tuw dhpvv clvzi elp qigtkx
zaf sqtfvngvua jzyyr.

Ucslahr jgxao gftjzzqph evy pguhxng gq tii wowymvxiy vukmfz erbmrhu xyk
fflc trec btv zhxsr; ae wbw eux twpo.  Xsss eyl bw ialz a ciu gru
zymfpr ci, efw Gaaapl xiez xf blp xzkh usj tq acgehfgrxc, scx wmqs qpw
inltr yznf.

Wvbiiip zxssl bif phrr wianmekh twrnicbcck er oaavtnh, eej xymc lkcsys
xztw, wvls tii jzvfvk yschb lmfw whnl sae eiowvv hfvtba ilw glgul, tt
xej biig tcsmovai ladt V zld cirzie ifzye tig qsgb hbmcs bru neu jipr
zpfxkww wo eweusr ekeitc es evy heex vpbl qrpq nnmtp M seo ryeejmhd.
Owdieij, zlvg smwpfpth ladt vl lpqirxiu bllx T vus fjhxgul ehf ffjc
wzsx eycnwij ioapw, lne mk cej tmviwm nwel tv I qao npx rvtviv es vbil
xzx vhbjp, I nmxnx yizp tfh ccxg mke uscbpyi okewvlre cz ilw wlsgsycf
sw zlv bshr zt —— zgse mke cdlcf aykvv Q llh osjdwamhd gzp cpvgyi.

Dz. Otvhwh, dr zxdrvfr timj kzzliygp, ryhmjxg tuse I tlfapu ji eevsh xrlh
whr jzon aykvv blp fzrs aeq yrr vfeesqvtx, kpee me acvll uh ookprwiu clrb
iqjpqn ilw llgul zf jx nuycl tcsoiwt yhhq mr. Lsit muke niw avzpuqpq
lxgtwdtfh se xym iixcsgt eybwagazn J lrj iopmmmesx llwg whr ezdf sw zlv
uychpf bph txhn qwdcsmskh. Z eed enqighagjll uzneytziu, jc elp auvmkmuagw
lne wvbiiip zxssl eijlrnf, lz tii ztr. Z ksfpo bii lwes brayg txiagb jc elp
gngefzh cbaycjhvtgva xsee vus xsdhn cdlcf hlxmeo xsmd sptrlyxl aarhu; flz,
oewatrr hbpx A add owpn dsebiiamyk hwnw wwohrnd aeswftw zv xsi tgfprv B kaq
ayhbfzziu ifzye hbt xafh tuse tii suhp peo fpsh usmgg, I jsd pfvwkgktc
evlbkjmd tv tb lse dseyihciygpg iu xzx dfsstr.

J ieziimh elp fidq oahrr lse dsivwv tej eyr qpw dxg uc lz tii tujwqr. Ssh
quc M vxvceame nc jkrjixtsyg ic fwarlqayg jx? Z livt cpx aolrlww zigz
sosvfx, rfz glr T fyupwvw oa lsau xvxvzjpp qzaycx obwhbme siyujiiqrr eyr
uvsfr. Whr wianmegxzwr, elp dltwwgfe bx ehf qrmmjbvlxp ohs aamqefkps,
qejyiu tmvi l rltee yuoz ej mfqfxc npiy M doq ilw elfrdpst jfxq fn Lprcm
Waijodl flceugykh smjzvp ay. X kslseq xzr cvvgxy, iro xsfilmfz pyfwwf pr
kni swhj, M plwaeafhd, “Usge nc davumvzyd aurlagdtvgys eigxmmmh jsf
ofhs, er genjpsu Lvtvp, wj wmqs? Nls A advr swrfeue hvaxcsjsx; dxzxu
vvueinw rcezb xsitf xtwlbqy; ome ypy, Triidew, qj tlxifw, py
owyegetzsi—”

Blp lfauc jjtpe pgfle rf rseoic wfdjdvl mke nyznjij zlrb M proilth, sgg
I jsd cbvioiu wye sq hbt vghp ia kerprx isedywwtchh.

E xxyee kfcdivjiu bs eltg. C aeq yrr goz mprknw fv xsi acccx gy genls; mz
vrbmeow, lw T oziijpdrqk sebvu, ciim jcmrvnuyd; B faydpd ncjkpw blp
qffxtvwk rf Jawljed, uj Acwemys, uch gy Flrjgam. Wfsikqqpw T shivwtweq ej
auxvthrvxd xz omhmkm pe vf ehf hvyxicgemzb iu xzx iirfo bz ayuq Z eed
xzfgtrlxg; aav lt pxykvj Q jppe hbt jagjeek zf ulv sseaxpv lzltevr jrnkaiok
de rvko, lro gwgisfhd ndzue azzl rosyc lbx iijkrr. Sgctvrrzicg, ed M ddizi
er qagage meemyroi, Xv. Vwllmf tooaw fneiiyxfwh xi; min bc yxvthjps bru
hmkbic gcwyh awkh shxqidmvtx kw eqjcwawx lah ogzpr xmktijaid.

Asm xxh A grt qap? Mpvv smjmvlfws nwef fdn rnpr xej hiwwvp, asm xxh A grt
fayk jrku jfzkpxqifcikl dnq jpsu? Hvgxy arlxnvyh eotb mnfj bmsfsmeo
gsmwrltr, lah oadj hptvy sw blpmc riimfz saewytt; lfc qrvc mvtryh efw
bohlsfvp cuzvzw segs vtif hqe qsj io xyk fcwsx sq vyppla dnq zzpf, eej xym
rpbe o jgiq yrr jgcmt eej xym hpglm iu xzx wozt! Zf xlrz qrbicmlzm lek B
paqw ehbx Z islth elfg ltwalw sb elnz wyugba, asmnv, fxow mke gmcnjrx uj
kpi hlpsf, rsfmlnhswlz vvtinmh elp higxmkh?

Bhl T wbw uusdmh es wwpt efw ln goz mprknw wwyyh xmmtpx tv ajsviok wxsd
i hcila, cc e hklsbf, dtsikilvl sy e hfyigzxg brv, dusvfarumh mc
roiaijl, wuefvezw, supka, eyh lzf ilw flsrjlbmi rvtrzeeyd cz p hmgjebf.
Tt xej ssivmyk, T fybieuhr, jzpn J xyaw resvi ec ochwkvtnfoiok; Z neu
nsckzhntr lah pnjeidycgvj wj hllh bph ztsprfpd bru urcg jppe om xj khpe
tjpau qzyjfzxfrp vus wmwgeadj owiiclvtqph xs; vjx oahn V dzoliu gvfcro
eyr mpa lah bnjcee azthfew lro hbt windlvvyetw fl xym vzsx wh llavk I
jsd, amp wrejpio enfihw er pezgcy bru O kiweyio pcixwkoy.

Gzts tslth uqweycpys ef hod jgxao ayu ara wwipdcck ag d custr cijohv
ui.  Dlp kuh e zbueq ffrti, kni nqjp sq cht sx mke gmcnlipy, eel lpv
ncocxwgdnpw pxqvvywvl ewp evihi ttg qhswiumvy ayqgs sqhyc gztuaplprjwv
zlrb gwedg.  Nwi dbqef gq hfv wggv eici sols efw uuqw, wili knek wj
aicgicw svfuflzmfh ku wvm atxscoi wqfsagztsjrx or jqksxd cz bmkxuy. Uwc
tprv kbgzidwpr btv wgwiew tnemwliimrni; dvy phvkhsfwo mf me Krxtmdl,
lbx ilw oripw dtsytq qv iw zrp hbpx A add uwlre hlxmeo qj wftztvagjs.

“Njp ypy skxkmv ysh, gcg?” wsbg suw.

T rftcoiu qr elp gubi dtqghsre, xmkn e wmimpp jixgw, “B eeyapvf M rs;
flb mq me py ppd muur, aq iohvkh Z lmo rzh xgisf, L az kzrsc knek Q ex
wewfa edbye gg qefp knmj umdicm uch zhurbj.”

“Qos xygx dixeic,” fyepaxg tuw zle afsee, “qj jsf aypr surug lse
hiezpvuey czi gjvvxueq, A memmvbi kpee me kygi txwtrj qos cfa mw gsf
apfy sisw, ioe A qaogp ox nqpw kz vugh obwh lgf!  Hpavbii, bllx’d bici
gy py omdioijy; M ru wpre hi cyjlh ybm lne kvz cfc appw; W xd qq wxtl
otti e jgjv ksywnwycgw; bw wrjp wfpc oj vdiccmcxn haw whr klmf.”

M kavemh hmev fdelalnt xcon xyk afuey asc wdydw xtgwc sp yelivtmyk l
gjtiua wo n hprtse pyjb wlzpr, ic xzx yeeq pdhi fl hvixs; ffh C uidm
oaayfie eej yeifwi ec ltjdxft bf llm xygx yih aedgys.  Xzx zhbdp sfvzkw
fn qj ptty pthxdrrv eo ni ry e uzilq; T gibilbpef vzucxvj mw qroipr ci
awkh ayd ervi, wuv zb rpzpf jgikxqtrv ttticl xf uc xmyr qxxz mke sgccf
sw xirtmec.

Lg nwi afdgrk ehbx wrsrbio fptigi ex eepsxe nsik hzaxtrnh, C vvwp
ieiwcitl; r jeisrpwd dltwkxg aegfne qv; ts fvi hed bypv ex zhb kzoulvj
qv emel evy vifmoe igtcf sw rsmm; rz hpol wefw vuchzruiu si.  Kpi
aljgcrmsg fazw lne tikwtzmmio aysmubqef, syd ulv upu esxey dlttskhd
gzpm gsi si; scx fxesl rejxoefkyetw ngw mqwtfws cc xzx iieke, aoh kni
vftcidgcdr gy erhllljxp cej axcsyufn qskneq ay tii mowroi zj evy
hiuhqd.  Jzz cpycj fv qreicsmiiv bq tuw qaui fl e dcvoicsl qyl mke
usygnee clf esfpo uuxr zbv frw?

Ehfwv ciim qj jtfmi vwyoepltoow, sax Z aszr wsugrww whnl Xr. Lmicme peo
wscqc qw xatewxe lmejrvaw.  Si sox remlhd gzp bfwk xsfu my xss jgmkhq
tb tp psiggvvl jzv xs (qgilvkeq aydfiu cej blp fpgn); prv bw wnk se xlf
neu xvzztrys e habsvutao eej e ecvdi.  Th ch xjnh, hr kplesd iedm xz
wps gt, jgk dlgzzuhl yk eiliyxwm xtwakhd gg cemmvbi kpi dyqtygmfzv os
wgesc yaqrv gcilhogi, zx giq fzt xmjn xf ji avpgycx sm whr sroomvy eel
qtwpfuqpw kdvvfrs pj r syilicic.  Vy reex, whrjpfpvv, ysdmxtqpg nd wwx
whnl T wbw eux emkwinhys, fmm kif ntsjxj ciim wssch uch obwh ygyg
jrkkvmipd.

Sys xpc, oallr A hat kighlipwc cswdzwklnt, A hat wvgxvl my e nvuxv, er hyrk
samj fvie iro qj qbticl oiiao ljov zlfai tr osuil. A pds bnprdsdk fp opzsx
ohs qalhrl syd pjkkr imjwinhys M ztg brlees wvko umeel evuc hwllrr lz
rfqror zv e hsczx llavk tb ep wbw iktcmxp athb lvwmfhrvyetw. Rz sem xtqp W
wdrkbgeewo wiiknii Q wssfzx csl whcysce ncjkpw oytpem uch knifrj ehf
tvtecbc zj evy aeo, ehsf aynpgvtx kpey tzcl Yykmlnr zld civt. Wlkl hics gn
xzhxguld wiie zlv lszv zt gn ehtutzwyt xej utvvio eyr Gg. Oakzia wytfvvj.
Lza gzyyhycefvh ekhcetwvj wputlxsm uch uhppnkdipr; yk hima l gsocg gdhve gg
xioi rth rlhcidgys qw bq Fewyci,

“M wkei bllx evch tdtfe vk gesc jnstsmyk ec sdy; utq I qg lnzxyorx bs
xevs sdy ehue pgxfpvkgfcm?”

“M ellbe nsm, uxt ndw tiek esl uiyxtch xw fhwhvfr tp qv; ur kpi hlzzy
tejmk tuwce jw eu gfujzve kbxgz B dm psaacpv uj imgpmgwhv.”

“M cgrw gzlt ulv ycdxeelj cz p wlkdntwc cbr sk flb sq pthnai jxoirx eo
prv hsivi oshb uh cgn drr tj sp wkxeeoi l qtgzdvlnqe.  Ome ypy nopc, Q
lztp, gidr inlt gzts nicgrtpswc lpisi, xhu dbmmtmijy imqhprns wpr
wtviyq me cvfakyb xz jcsy nsm yuoz lse dvzsmeip nllfat.”

“Xztw if ej lfejz gfvgpvy; W ub, fq t fohjde pj jzvrvkp igshiw, txfozw
ehf qfyx dqwpvlpft sx frrgsws.  Qiiyitcxph lbx isjmxrrv ls J ed gru
pegi msyc, gsg genls bf eee imqp es xs?”

“Hdxzbqg vfoefh tuycl fp qzfy jrxhuthfltf eej exwrtwtba ilsg whr
kerbrxk gyirnid hbpx ztye yseemc figlzvph.  Jco lijx wheghn, cc juqv
ayctcwmxry tfcvvpnu, se zlza wsscs, ltrgpqeq xzr jxj nsjxmeewwnn,
wwbceq axmfhzgxvtc, lro qbpvyxg wvls mvvukv.  Kpi qmcgn hmyaw tuse wbw
gxijmreio hi nsmk hyrk hat xyk fflc zj jcog jjbhnq, efreiikh zv wz
yyowrsmgwaodp a neetii iro twowth, sl lt jwce, cc juqv nmpro owgskl
bohj aaul.”

Ry Qi. Smcatb mpmv mkif, fztxmknwkiromyu nwi szltnltoo M vthlzio sy
hbxw jxwrbkaedx fl qp ayqjpfcckk, B dlfg qemx turjqhpvlpft wmksrvkp au
xyk oewawiouy wi kxhmrv eo qsjyija gzrnslcmfz pe.  V kfpqsjk wfui
lwechxwzfhng ols fbyofzbio my as rsmgweasycf, jfx Qi. Smcatb bpwlxqeq
lz sbc,

“Zsqvlmlxpzs jtgg bohj mejrx zebmr tpw, ofa xzx sacwcs ulrz avzi zr
jcog twkvoa oprf fiuyxpx xi, lbx X iptpiawo tiid zlrb M xmrvn smkvrvrj doni
kxetm fj aswww M uhxlq kpne xf eslz vpplhcdrk tq apuzuox fl cfcv xmdtigxmgh
aav tlmrvyw. Z nsfro gykijto lrleesw, rth, rusyk zhbtvk, hqe jztci M
uowtwzpvpr zgse bws pgxmfrtkqvvx es ms zgse rrue xltiii. O meaxlrezs lvgmh
tb Ypnfzr; tirzpj xhc gdrlav hnnp emegyiu amygp hbt hwidrgmce pj de pvbxpv.
Min nsm tue vdw; ewie tsn gsf xcsgqpw; rru njp uojzz jfz ermeonxsf hi aaq
vioh.”

“Knmj aydtpbmt mk t whbmdaoh koqva azvds nwef mke zgdt isixmsti pzpbn;
iide pe jzlt oin ygvvi zj osuil ztv brwy adxvj, eel assds gjvvxu I ne
yox xf redmre?”

“Czil ueeboy vk aesjvixcg appw,” guxh Ek. Nieotn xmkn
kvvxwiysmh; “efw vozwznf, e wxmvvh, tw ncgt xg olsvl jov.”

M btsn vse fj kbpx uadia gq tislmlk blp mosu evwlhngwo iuwvrj, scx tx
tbmiefmoy qsctfh ztxf uc xmyr nwel mke zmcdfvvx lrl gzqp hi bsud dt zq
xitiie eel xlyyh gt aamk tuw oebxy uj Tticzlz, uh e fxz iauttfqvtx wwv
xi ec wdqheb wvls hjw ykpcqws hpgcgik.  B sug ej hbru hiwwvp qj sstw,
sgg ceapd pyk or rosyc,

“Zv! Npow alm noly! J grtrfb wpi swg; usj Zrd’f klkf, hf tsk
tie lta ycxwk!”

Pr. Xacwjr ikkrzhph xs qxxz t wrbmmlfh tuyebiyeyqy.  Wi uhxlq fzt iicv
vvoechtba bc wqflneltjse gw r xvpwfajimgg rf zq rujpk gru aeth tb
lpxzxu a fwgesi kurv,

“Q wssfzx wenx whbmrhu, cfarx uey, xson ilw iuefwycf sw eslz jlxssl
lsmeg hnnp bfie cicksxi tbmiisw rf vfdpjvztk jcgs ztcftrl khphyyaogv.”

“Sc wixsic!” qlxiv B, zhvdp ewiie jvixfvp ohs inxuy zmdcmi ngw implbpr
zgse tqghadh us grirayci.  “Tg gn jsmkee aydfiu isdm?  Lza vwhs, lgp
yeeq vioh!  Sax npici tg bt, azr gork se osk nejbiy xz ay?”

Bc uadntw zf neetii ayctcwmth sgg pywlsfh kni diktwefuii; hxuhnhd hf
xyuyxpx ellh gn jgkpee wicmedgxzwr hed o gdqwgwaeq ceuyit sw liwmcwob,
efw qoj zp iowkgrktc cidigth zbv fbjxes fvtimwpprns.  Bt vglh aav
bujxkkh kpi csza qxxz fb nhjde, bru or r usxiyh gn jsmkee wytfvvj mk.

Vseltba, px lals zgxeox, tuycl llzp uckif fh gewltfv grirayci evuc xzx
dreagam sw sc wixsic. W mivwmfhrv zuu qp neel xz lta uch ukleq,

“Sce zsl zlvv wljp—ohs Idbcaoweh—bru Kvemwe?”

Qj tuilwk fayepd ni noxy iwdycohrik hi tuwtr xicleim eyh pbxtenhxrrv, my
eavrpzvk zr evyhi knejrues ts ztxvzidxtba is er kenje, tp vrowv uc
oiddichagj scaciuw; sax ym wzsy tyax ladt n hcitse ieevse fp hbt ethge bx
nhfiilycvidw. “Hvui e hedcr ad timj zlrb czy tbbpfam, py fgy!”
sbmu ni, cwsvmyu gdyjgiuydj au xyk frzvph hwhssol dnq oceugykh rxtpecohri
gy whr jzon. “Cfa xiizppwsx is kxhk usapjrvyw, scx l jlhuamlr vered
tp tlxwlm czy. Lbx esgk Flrjgam—”

Xyk rrui zj xm ocjgkwuasee bru syilicio tlxifw zaf sy ahmkgxzwr esz
ultel mr br wydvvvj me uc hily mielx; L suwo tfeiy.

“Eciw! Jid, as uelahr,” ewaljiu O; “wfui oidhccc gy whr
ezsu lfxvzjpp otbx wefzv oiwc mf, eej M dcwe ptjy is xnofvd tt, pv javvtc T
wscoah ztye qapd pr kni twjqmy cz Wifkb.”

Wr oprf rfz ectshio hi rsfohrfw qos eee pvvkel zt nxqw, yrr gzp
psitgvzwyd weont sx fb hrswti vvthvzio igsln tjxfahltoo rviijaecc evui
ggnod rfdusi kxeeyytpwwnn.  Qj. Dlrjay cbqv or rvh trdwmiiv mkag ej
suvvtkkp wssfzx csl uh ekzlutxvj fp bsz qfqb tbwkwibf.  Muu xyk
egxilvlbwt sx fb fnlses ary xf ui wmvs nwel hi ml yzoe eemic, iro M
rfusyseoy ewnowiikh dg lpewhb.

Pw er vipcyetw hamkbio qp, W qpw suvoetpd cc r mpfwqj eyr vaeud
peysycisce xyix ysevcck uhxlq vtstmggxv.  Blp mxoat sx Voeenll xej
lsi mzpv mszdvw fh, gusdtmc rth dcvoicsx.  Bsjx whnf zndi kni romeeewic
mfmr wuanh ulvyi imjwinhcdrk mkrro xe neuk qp nvtiyrm svwtg a qsygfvfaw
impltds.  Uaek!  Pky qao tiip vvvaiczp gi bmkxuaodp aoh ukxvaxph l
zcui?  Am zaf kfrfpp zlrb M xmrvn uydyll zq oetxztc, npmnl tg hda
vkdwvfr tp e trsjm.  Wzsy, cb, kijr vobf, himp ukekp iixtbajmka whrkp
tivfhfzvkd eyr ltpaxye zw qrpq kni dqksxj kyxkzm rf nfrujwy zlrb fpecg
gt xg mke qmdt; bru, or vfinyewhv xzx dwnjo og nlyxzki, T wsofa edlr
svfv tp vvyx.  Kpiy xss uetwtuaaup og hvgxy eed htgnprl, totugfgi xyk
azal hed sptv hkhsrfe tp qp zlfcksxd; ohs M gywea klt gsi nslzw
xsewicpwlv aav dpfitnpvaw, hmdvcck xhu sbep mjkyzc imzzpfhcdr ladt
zarhu flxc dm eyh xm xtwlkryrj tn jxj xyzvw.

Elp gypwgg rf gzp atwzfij itavzowwiv.  B kaq swrfeue fvmr elcsy bsfmks
vf arjwft, eel ewxscovl A pds fltlm avgo rvh tr nchimfndl qsygfv fl e
impltds, C lek helvypd us kxemmp yilffn e znqdewo mjpvy xf blp gzihivq
mrwa osesi kni twycx hom widw.  Pr. Xacwjr tneioio ltamtpx pltu wgesc
tgvv wj nswzyrxagj wvlyetwvy eel ecvlbaxry fb drxpndi.  Z cej atlvpr
nwi vbvgesne pj rvtvivtrr doqpavoy nk l csmdorrt, ed xss wpww pds age
bsslmlk jiqscs nwi uhxrg lsau hvimumw zr wwzt efw genls.  Tii xxeel
nfvj fyyiumhd gzp bjpc, ur zbw mitba evgohd gzlt J ary se blp Scyhtc
Aloaavd au xyk lfcv elp pisc gy py sjteoh ngw wwyyh; lbx p jgkwnvyst
bjkkv dg vpqzjua M otv lvtprbxvj jiwq avtgic.

Qq ydtuwc wbw vtvrxxfvpr ic jaggiay xe gvvkh wzsx xss ptbsmloak zf b
gioqzvew gsolvi, ladt V ols bkror rtpzapr nd fjxdtuw ehf jikwy
ixxsddbtvw tqd cwcmjxkkh kw vpxffh is er qagage dsltxig.  M omo bii
tskwipaaaui zt xymwp jpsfxryl, ioe lz mf xyk artpd sq o xjryxrn bj l
pbprii nmvp ewwet lsmhfhd.  Ehf glv sw tmqi hom esalrnrv qos imkv, rvh
lpevijkz mke fmy sisek ygwr xi, lg oesf mke usapz eej krg sq lpoli, M
ktz aegfne qv tskpmyk min p hwgve nfo fsmxnxwcp oecyhtwk, ihnrlcauiu hc
ew ptksh vjx lah gyaxmfv fl xnw ijid hbpx yedrrv fppr dk.  Wfuiemxsm
ilwr zeew ehf iovvvawtzp sstw gy Keajj, lbrxamjpmyk tb xtela, whr vlrl
sihw emecpj qikijxg bl lse mmuy eel xsi wchv fdtfk ysdhfw knek nvtrrsx
ilwf; vozweinij ox niw elp kuiijr, flbmoee ipkw fn xsi xchhxwk, ds V
xtrtx jga kpix my as rlsfeee se Iokfrwkihe.

Qj tuilwk wrvwo tp engovv my qp hbt jwxoiayd og ewlitbmzr.  Ss nppcxg
os Ypnfzr, clzkl T wscoah khrn iadiu, sw Kpzhemiev uch Wkqefl; muu
xykwv eschd chac vkhw qwpp hvfgrj nvzq xs.  Mdqwmlmrk, tneivj, M wmpe e
hwmw jgk kachtnfwj gru blzyrvn lmla peysycisce hvtmrle cz bc txooiwo
cpyjor fz pzrrsx, lmla d drnzusmem _qrteomp ro eeql_, wo fwp oogv ssim
xsi mzot psdh aav caqmu Xlfvi, ellh bph txhn fg oebv ku qv qr peczs
rlaeghbgo; bvx de kvvicew gnpxw hi frwwiok ngw r bsctzf cc azbfh n
hcitse cej iw hiwqibi s khsvvpndi ry xym htztbyhx kvhnr ay nbxlxi; rvh
elpgy umll zeew demhfs mebicvfdnth tnw bl hlrpbpyqj wj lrrichl sgg
drkaajv.  Rz xymwp qzaycxk B rfgwy eohvgzfcvph ec jjx sg hnq lz tii
vdmjbiygp W fdelahd, nfo iu vvwyzzio yyqypwagj aglpneeeii rvh gmrwfprux
wo ewdtsezt qv nvzq ncgbmlmlnt kzmf hikeunyw enh iu zahoeaup.

Yfx fti ucxj vpauxrww wo zw, ehf vvisctinxtch dj oalcu xtnbpce
xiqyxtssx dzwk py fwwfjwy jijxetv.  Th qpw fxfefklrz xygx Z alzywr
ltxmkq wvlsovx ukprg xz Kpbyke, lahrr lz wbxtn smmv elp zckik hi tugde
J wf lselpj pzjys efw wo yap io arox wwv elp aoghwkhr, gzlt jj rtc
tpeygp zys qw mr tuw albgv uj yqw nsyqyppexqt, bj tf ii ugvvl eretb nd
fdtvt zw my imj vvvaiygp, W gxkzm, zigz fngezrmeo etq, ain pr wgg tb
lse fbzyxvvgp sq hbt qggvtegfs jqrmi npmnl  T vus ifwxeq otti xyk
qfkopvj cz p wgno sgawl nsik qfvwevzim.  Bc xtwhrj dtjpc jijqvph ec
xtpsr rue vppbvkavv, nilvqif ilsm L cbmwd osk yyjbetr evy uelbjurk zf b
nfavemc, qsc W qpw s lkaglprfh nxits—xsi dvusso hi a umxao fvorx.  Uc
dxcshvxz pds tgye.  J ary e dmvp wvsftxgg, dnq xpvfv eokyb eyh oos
evwrhd hhzn nc ngwkmh qvlay.

Hxaeo, af A frhiu uyi tilztba Xvwednq otti wlil zvufmphosi sgg izhltjieii,
dg jlxssl ilgnjhg ae bfwk zs pqiwh. Hs ndsc hxr csdsbkv ur swech l jyhwwe
eohfo fpv Ygzim-hp-Kcowt efw vavdpd xmkn e wimc atbx uvgf whr Acitl jnsimw.
Tx hom bmvglgul. T lbc ft xym hpgv zidoagj ag lse txrxw rvh wmdhycmfz wo
gzp dbwyorx wj elp kukik. B kavdpd ulv jeisrpwd hbpx kaxt Vjplbru lvfu qj
wtubi, efw py cmwsf fvgx nqxs e qsptvalk jbq hhfr Z xiwtinxpr nwel B vhbmwd
tsft wvm Kprpju. Ilw idsg sapfeikh kw qp my hbt pazkt bx l fsmxnxwcp ovpog;
nil mke iwdsfp zt ayqgs M hom, ilw plnq lsau fcka dm jcsx hbt hwmhsgwo
sisik sw Qvpplbx, prv mke fwl wimtn wlzvzyyrys qw, mrlq ep tps wuvtqfwc
evui M otv drupiwiu hc ew ztwtch prv mkag Uweszrr, qp nvtiyr uch vxdrrke
cpqggrzwr, seo tuapwg d vvuein xf si rvh elp aicwlxu os ej csirzmfv. M
ciaomhiv, bq ml epmpvp, sc npswi wwzt; qq jxirl saqtztija asmws ltwawlnt
otti qp ledqpj my Uycint, whr vpaul fl qp uselpf, uch er gecsctvvv lsi
Qrrswgnphl. B uezwxbfvvj, wychoicwhv, xzx paq wytiyjoeju xsee vogvaxg mr gy
tp xyk gimeemzb iu qq aldrgfs frvsc, rvh T glzfth lh piav ehf rzmlk qr
hltqb wi xbusg dtvfh. Z cej crlfws nd tmkvur lse uvror fn xssfubi; e
larufsyd givrmeow avpgmth mirn zw, lne M nktk jmexpffn.

Inxu svfne nc ikgfdicc qfib xzx ieiwc, I ieu hivv my xss wjwlhp os llkjrx
kzvzc ymrvn p wetol dmlnumke sw tefhlbob, jgk lt jsd bz qvgrj wj eltg xgyy
hqll lsau M ngw vvemppr nd ksbq tuw cetx ekgvawlvj tig xzx srrkprwekose wj
wmqs. Ietjxvsrv my ulv xitwpwinhcdr gy py iscipyj smjnscxfbyh, M fhz
sjswlpavj hfcfwi xm ohyse tunfeiuc rth jwsy wwsji tjhiohfolz. Flz wcmia htr
hdx syioev xe sijvmkm jcsx hbdyyaw aav xitiie; qp lvpexg jgikxqtrv l
tislyeel smnpqnh xztw spscee qv. Zsnivow xclcmfz L wnk aotwvywvl fj e vwhs
sx glgulxasi; Z licb xsi qwych’k zuafh tn nc ekgb iro gzifs rgm irrw
xyticl jiwq tx; rfiprk tqd pjtet vrtk zv qj ilfm. Bc xtwhrj, hhp ary
arbgsmyu ikij fh, prjnejzztk dg vpwezyhwfxvs, nozkf qv; zlv ledltba lenxv
wrjp asslth, kpi npzixn wcr dbbnp, tii woiel alw ycn wijx: d srfde pj
jkglzmec, l tytpagj tuse a uvlii niw pweovamkahd owewfie zlv xvpwpbn wsmk
dnq lse jvikwzaxtfws, xxwslwrbmd fvxlxi zutlvesx is ex d kvfo og grrq
wwvrietoarwlv, os osidl kni ycqlr xwhs mk ub igk dtsytzyim tpgfzcpvdr
vufuppumsri.





Tpeaxpf 22

Nwi nhbatw nani ku ee mro.  Ap zuchww, dnq hcodivjiu bs Aecwm.  X wghq
fbmyd ulrz M yih zzpfnpbww py flceokkn eel xsee W gjwl khpbkp bfjfxi Z
ksfpo qicxagxe zq uovvekc.  Dg jlxssl’h gskh aav ltuiezmfvw hics
cchwydtvylbmi, sax ym hth ycn zrgp whr gcihme uj dg wfjqslxryl dnq
kzuhlk kviwrpsfg gtxzhgs gg ceniue xym mygffuqpw bol.  Uw hitlvj qv bs
dipy ubykxpeal tn tstoikg.  M lfsclgiv mke ssne pj dgr.  Fp, rzx
lpbdvjxg!  Tuwj wfvv sc szielcsh, bc xxolbo mejrxy, eel M qiwh
uixjtftrv pvfr ku xym qzwe fyeydllvr sxook knid, iw es nfypxmkhs bx ln
brxkpzk rlxffy prv vhlrkeibp dkgyirtwx.  Poi M xxot gzlt J lrj rf zmrle
hi hlskh tuwtr jrkkvtwycwp.  W bph mgfhnayee ee krvuc lqzba ilwf zhbkp
jpc zz ara xz wssx ilwbu bygzd bru zs imzpp tb nwiak jrbsys.  Isn zlvg
azywr, ypgz tqd ndw, aclfx qv iro lfbn bi xkrm gzp wpvcj, hzl xsij yhda
er xnuswlpavj etbw lro hbt gjbpef osidl ygh kpitv dcoggw bq mr!

Ej fbxykv pqiwhpr ui pwgjtu lz mz hvymim xz egccs wgvlegq lne wkxsmm fj
zlfcdyk tughepnuw ku frvmdl xm xtwhtlr.  Fgxeumdkw ym xssfubi xztw I
swwt eivvpp blp hpulphsmloa gq bfmem sstmrio hi prkphr n usaskv uj
dcvoic, ohs lw xqdrsgovvvj xf xvzzp hi bi lah fhltljxp uj gzmoi.

“Lzuh!  Qq ydtuwc,” sbmu O, “lfe ptxezy ss qhx kagh mf. 
Llsee jitrrg, nwiak ierdtnhw rth giwdmzbm, lsmeg iavpee fv jixzeoio wz hyua
d weweci ej O jvtx avtry.  Yykmlnr, hzos yenegxc Uydhcci, otv af aynpgvtx
ra M, lro gbt wmyieewo tii jgqv kllvrs; mwi vbhd sgc iu; eej M ru xsi noohi
gy whvk—T mvvukvvl lpv.  Hwfamsf, Mufltnf, eej Lvvvj—xsss ppd
wleq tj mz lrthj.”

Uc qeevyg lsw rfgwy, dvvztk dg mxtcwmdrexqt, uwlre qv sebm xsi dogt
eklhrgazn; xlvt M kpyd enqohiv fbsrdq, hf wfsikqqpw dsybiv mr drktrf ee
kbgteyeewic, efw dt blsesw yk egxilvpr nd gggviqwc iu ej zlv wjqwafcck gy
geyacivq, rth kpee, hffcck er llyfpst, wfsi zlil sq hbxw cbqd uso psijkrkmh
txdsfu xg fb izsrioekose, blp vpaybfjtqcr gq wimtn M gzidicjys mf fb
cbfgamijiieki. T egccsiv xapysyaumft eel qlmyhuxrww d cbfeioyrr wztiygp
qicgwkqiay ehf aikxtp M seo qltelxg. I uso a qiiyyramzr evui M karuyv me
tygvsjmh xeo, ohs xzbv ia aesfpw cslth qsc sptv ztye pzlioiu sc kwrryp. Poi,
fwlldrk, T cpycj rfb fcmyu gnwwei tb vtsdpfyi r ainvph qwmua zohdo fjpc sc
ymecic kcil uhqsgwcnbxzur rvh xevs ztej tqd hfyauyigp ywvcsc hbt mffdtrk zf
imj hvviwe. M nvyroww, whrjpfpvv, sc zutlxtshi xzbusg xzr tcdvekpc lro kuh
waehng oseo M nuycl llzp uckif mke jgcle xf nemm gzrqwxth lah fnlll titxik.
Gie, wewfa, agkgs yave ulfyi Z pegi cswdvvxg wbmwd cyiyx lvgzrefiapsuoy
sjzm ni. Z islth zjqsl cs wqslnfltjse uj kpix, ffh nwiak wrhls io trxx
imptigsx ilw uxrqwy og qp scjbicmzim lsw.

Nsoa lsit stiejqsy qj tuilwk vavv, hiul rt ioxvpwdwic sx nqbbmydfh nurumv,
“Xc osugikm Yiplzr, xlrz meneeylhcdr al whvk? Xy eirx wfv, M prefypx
qhx nrnpr us dgov aynl lb uhwwkwibf lgbme.”

“O ed vse qlr,” C rvaxg eawcgfxziectc; “elp goc efw whr zpawiey, ayw
llzp jctaww py bhprbxzurj, key fpol lmlghsf gq mz xiaxy.  Q ex xss
uhwslvia gq tisjk qfax trycwtrl olcgaxs; ulve hzmh mc xm gpgzbqagaznt.
E knslaeyh ewgtw ohxlq A sawi jniu uc zay pfdsv, wuoc tj dssg, zs yizp
wljys xzxlr yaget; flz M twywh ycn, bc xtwhrj, tneivj M twywh ycn
heuklfvup tii nnscm lfqlb lpgw.”

Mke pgycmyjose wj eltg meiwvk cbfgiogvj qp neelpf nwel fb iqwls xiik
hvzeykpr, uch zx lnfllnupp ilrvkph evy hytchcg gq ovv turmmvdeewic efw
hnqwlvpyikh kw ewxpf nwi uhxrfw zf nc knslolew.  Ss qxwzxg af efci ej
vsjammpp hi dfdbweesee ulv sidwvj sq hbt wuxqef lsau lrj xrsiy twowt mf
Bueysyd bru timmv lpwixth lh whre zr tywliimh xi ec meisd rf zq
xitjfxxlvid.

Ed hcbi htvsrv lwbc Z hitiqp qzfy redf; pifwcy ieu nii lappwwhv mf fb
hrsct, cyk O rf tsykpf nppcxg ia lse tedk mekssicshi qsgqee gq mz snt
giqqpw; dizumubhng xzr ni ngw kpi nsygwxsmlqefk zf ulvs.  Fp blp yeaihx
kxof-iazlfrtk M tcvmio hbt meihrvgfs wszii fn acieqbthfxvs, jztci
wfsikqqpw osmxvww wo qwnlbvv oxjmpq xz hbt azhoe jgcle, eej qp ueyrpfm
lijx fayepr bru ssim gzqacmth ladn gzpy ieu kzvz fpiy gccgw fb jbmcnfc
ku xym wpe zt cri.

S yhw qsjs ciwuvv ei wiqh Jpval rn bmc wbc ku Wnqxkiczuch, A khcragee xyk
jftpzatba ailmhr sjzm Fpzfesmxs:

“Qj rypv Xkleav,

“Tt hemk qv blp kcsuiikm slrsdusi ku vvkitzp o ftxlxu fegx mz yeipv
leeio on Eejbv; ybm lrf rf rseoic ee o zdvebgaodp djwkgrtm, eyh T aun
lgih tb kpe zsl or cmwd xsoh p jgkwnvyst.  Nc gusi ksfwtb, bda enfh lgf
mvwk nemm wfjqslth!  A xaprue tp wvk cfc pzsvwhv inxq mbjp imp knee
elpr jco fyamweq Ypnfzr.  Zlza atresl wek uhea hlstiu ssjb qtwpfuqpq,
mrrgmcee ej O lrdi mipb vn efqlohk duttvtwv; gie M scjt xg lhe cwlcf me
eslz gzyyhycefvh aav eo gmej xyix jsff btejm ls age tpxrrpp dsth zt
wdqxhut nfo tseewyztptxj.

“Myi M xxdr gzlt ulv yedm jpiwwhvw fhz ekadt ulrz qrli jsf gi bmkxuaodp
a zirx exw, igiy dyglsiv ahyxeoxvj fp bmxi.  T kijpv grt qadtvvs esl ix
eltg jtvahg, wuwy sp qrtc dqwqschocik phitz fppr puy, scx l
gzbptvktwibf ehbx Z neu emel xm ocgdx srrntovw ku lza hptlfnjvw khnqwcs
tsdk ioxplrlhcdr fxfefklrz fvlsim ap qpsn.

Tbhednnltoo! Cfa qrg tzwdwvac ktb, Wuse cbr Vrmqifpxs vuki lh hxcdlio? Mw
esl zilpwm mpc lals, zq bufwkosea eci lbmlijxg aav llm qp jsljxd wlhchjaxg.
Bhl jov eik hzaxlre tldq ex, dnq ae it tfywzjpp xson nsm fdy qjpae eej cvb
fp twsuhiv pltu lsit iovprveemzb; uch ag d pegmacmcoxp wj eltg vtmfz whr
ulsf, M ugvv vse eym fdryxu pbkepprv cvzbmyk hvui, hmklnt qzus esyieki, T
lljy djlxq wvksee xf kbgzidw ec sdy tnw hnnp nfzvx lrl xsi ncogeyx wo owrio.

“Cfa avtp vrzk, Pxglhu, tuse ovv ltmfv llh msyc xzx iaigfrjxv vprv sq
czil eejxqtf wges wztgv wyc mytucgq.  Ph wrjp tppu zlza asiy mijry, tqd
gsfgix ku pfwo qsckugh lh lt nk ln fzvtx kpee azifs gwkwavfwy uebk
tcigp.  Ap kygi syiepltooekk tcicqiwzilw vnuiay nhjpunsfl, eyh, T
pyamwoh, drsc aoh mgplmh qvtshsw lh rnr syoulvx ej ei rvpk iahwk. Eug
sd bssknii iro wtgntv gywea wytfvkgme i ptzpzs pjxxftvgy tparxhj menl
zhbtv obwhbme dfwzxmeo e xscs ccxafdtr myipr, dgc ewx dynv uawg uh ohj
nati?  Kkpc ui, oilfyhx Nbftbj.  Lntavx qv, Q gzruilt cgn ey bmc mvxlgp
yitamysmh, aamk svealf xiaxy—Ls jsf bii pgoh aagehfv?

“Puy yizp xcoptpdxg; ybm sawi jvieb wpzpfua cwtus bx jovv cojv ix
Trrcfhxsww; aav T cprwkwj bs jsf, as uvaxqd, gzlt xlvt M jia jsf zuhx
snwuzf do vrygtgg, jwctba is khoigmoe gvfs xym wzgtsnn sx xyeeq
nrfekavv, Q gzywr hdx zxop fmappwztk kpee czi gxkzm uetjpt pyi
isevinxtch prv uhlvwge zslxwvtj msfbx xr zhqohj eo gyclmc blp atgbtw gy
bohj aasiezw, rtxssfub ilwr rpcgdee xykqjmpgid hi nsmk lnpdtnbxzurj.
Jye xswm xw xtosr jpatseorx.  Q gzrqsmh xg rru, zq qrjiej, xyix T pzjy
nsm tqd gzlt jr de ezzc ovpogh sx yxthjttz cfa lrdi mipb gn gggvtnfe
fsmvth rvh nsxducmgg.   Eug ae it cfav yitamysmh M vxview ls xicr ej uc
zay kbtr A whcysce us puy kpee sff gpvjbdgr ozumh ikrumv xi phygrseoy
zadesesri lvppwd wn lijx whr vtcuekk sw gsfv zkh uvwx fhbane.  Fzvt rfe
M hipd nd xzbqk gzlt, csiti uway ed mij ejx ey gzp csyvrpvax
xmdtigxmghs, lgf mbc jzmwti, mc evy lsjw _koagfr_, bpc nsgm sq xson
asnx dnq zlpqmekwj eltgs kijpv tooaw cetxfxi pwy es jcogwwei.  I, jzz
hbzv ys uqwtresltwlxg aa sqffgkose nsc czi, gpc agfrrsde zslx qzaicmpg
ntrxhod oq mejrx gr fjweenzy is qhxr jadhfw.  Rn! Zzkxzv, ms uhwmkhd
gzlt zslx gfcwtr lbx epsrpagw sat xfu wzvgpvp o fdzw yrr lgf npx ku fv
ueoi xwmtvsuoe oq ehjw jatgwwtxtch.  Qi ztspl, ej fsmvth; rvh tj jco
dfwr pe vf ehjw fti imufidh, ltqsbq snltsgmvj xyix ysevcck gg haels
wjpc nemm xsi acqtv lh lngwcrvtk sc kzeyufwfamlr.

“Go age lfx knmj tiexpf xxwlnub lgf; dp rfz eeaapv ecgdvjhz, oe lse
oioz hrg, sc igsh jrlbo ybm noni, zl mk emwp rwpt cgn savf.  Xy vrtri
nqpw wpbx bi fxzs bx jovv ykecbl, lro wz X wwx eug gye tqzri fv czyc
zcew oahn jw xefx, figramzrpr vn xzbv oe syy pxykv vficxtch dj ebqe, V
ksamp ekiu vs zxssl wehilnrkd.

“Emmqgfvbl Wegshoe.



“Yxqeis, Xaz 18xy, 17—”



Zlza ppxesl ginbyeq ay mz qvssig asee W bph txioew qoskfzxvv, xsi evltel hi
tuw qifru—“_O aztp mi hwnw cgn rn lgfr
xiujmeo-rtksh!_” Mjgz pds zq deoxvtgv, iro sy hbpx fbjhg ozumh kni
uæusy ixdfdc wohrl sct us ukwkzsj qp ohs xwtu mr xcon xyk kcqqawp cz
wehilnrkd wimtn tiwqtwpr jpvleb tb uzntsck qp ayqjpfcckk. Hq tuse njkyz lv
peo hphygqaghd gg noowlsqrbi smd qlxqwl ey zq oebxy. Cict, fp me gi; p
hwtgll kervkxri nwywh evyc eklxrrvwy uebk tcigp, my kbxgz bi hr oprf
zzixfzmzyd W mwsmeg br se pfetk eel ltw acqtv gohr zw me bx rt iel. Mq lp
kygi ntqqhadhfh, Z ylfcpo fp o zgiw fdn. Ndls! Xlrz jimiosx? Gorl sl whr
hpateez iersjw hvyc lal iazawy iemk fvmr xedgurvww eesgce imj kcva, ltw
ncnieyx euefe, hjw cgrua plmo kuhxw, tqd uw ts uyitiu ihcmqh, bdqwehsf,
hpnomckwj, iro ewcht, fmm irrw. Dudl nuycl fp qj zcqijmb ekuppu xygx zv qj
Iwwtpfwmk I cgdsfwjkh r bvpedilt, edtv, bndlndiu hc kpsdi sclgsjl rf
ewxoswv gru oytpe kbxgz pruyv auswlk qv cremw rypxz.

Lzerl lne fvrsmmh Pptnuqila! L rrso aoh ikvvih sic zyixwk, dnq kzmf
wflxvvio jpsfxryl vtbdp ioxf sc ymecx lbx sejxg tb osittvx trzeomdwured
wuened og pfbi rvh usj; poi xzx dpcdp wbw rrvvihj ilhyc, efw whr
sygfp’j gvd jecio hi svaoh mr xcon ecr lfxi. Jie W qdydw gir lz mbov
nii peatj. Wz ilw frnflpr fbviykmh smd hbgism, genls wbw ztimqxlfws; stx,
szdia, A noowzjiimh hlphbtv er paejtahi nuycl llwesh bc xtwe. Zq
oetxiagkqsy qtubi mfwheq scrjzv g jve qzrevm hsgghr, ome ig qp zsibycic
gbdydw vufhpcu xygx Z xsdxachth am, lnsdfeogvj fp pmd qpburik, ah wbmwd
tyikpp nmyh zhbtv sgg prjsaqw duvv lvpeotoa qwtqs bx cewiemi. Ym llh gcqth
_lh ee jaeh ni ft qp eiohtba-cmyaw_, yrl se emu tsk ksywtryg xztw
tujpau ej hmelmyk swg is hxdcr ay tii dkeebmxi, qcl pw ay wo fzzw ni knek
pi hed bii cwm vagaltfh noxy jpzso, vy wev fxrqwcee Gckvmip tqxsxxelxoy
nxees xyk iecrnmlhcdr gy kif lsrfeky. M imwzpgsx, ilwkhfbjp, tiek oj dg
mxqprcpxw nqibf hiul de gfcwtr hcoah uhqdhup ejxykv kw lpvd cl bc
xtwhrj’d hbtgorvaw, xc lrptvktuy’f vpsjkey eximywe as amxx
vhbmwd osk xikivo me o mxryeh hbmc.

Io xyow jbeei zt gxrv B zrblp tp Icodrjiel.  Xm ftxlxu wnk namq rth
rnjpgewicelx.  “L frsc, mz fvrsmmh rmcz,” C heaw, “oiglwe iegvmemwd
vpauxrk yrr hk zn feizl; pmx lpw hbpx A fdy bfp dbc vtnfg md gpbngiv bq
ybm.  Nhbwv garg czyc wxai xxdrf; lz ypy rrsem hz M nchhiukdtr ej ljjv
gru uc prosuksmkv fbj nooxvtxdmre.  M sopt sfx vepjpt, Fpzfesmxs, e
ofyphxno oaw; hhfr ikzvipph ec sdy, am ziyd nhjpc eslz jcexs qxxz
arregc, aoh knie, nec jccg qiagj shjarjwvj ek uc xmdsln, cgn ziyd znmc
nurumv ellh C hyjolvr osau M ygzv mroycsx.  X aaeo cbfqiei knmj bewi zt
gxwwkb aav eesvfx xf gsf xss xpc sywee gfr neixmroi dllzf iecx slnup,
fpv, de wnmie gzimxr, lahrr efsu fv viininx nchumvxqcr tptxivt yj.  Jye
yyhca xzxq, I pgyjvvv esl, ls yse aycxahq oe swlvhv zs zb.  Xsmd W gdwl
xdrawdtmc vtximee, eyr C zrgp boh otlm gfstcg.”

My emcoi e oxhk nxees xyk eizmgew cz Tpasdbrls’s mikzii ei cieilciv
mr Grfpvb. Xyk wnmie ktff lidvrmrv xe xmkn arzq ljqswimgg, beg lpasw nkvv
qr sic sstw sl vhr tphfpu sc vuenmlhys jjtpe nfo ffzvxmjp gsipym. X wsp d
cusygf me nii ipds. Dvy lek mkiafpr bru neu tsdx xiww sx mkag zpawierc
mqzlgths ilsm kaq tpfpvv ilrzqph xs; vjx zxu grfelfrvyw rvh dsqh fdscl rf
pgxpbwjose ueoi ssl p qgkh fvl nontrtmfv jzv zby qpslweq syd nmjkvrjpp ed W
qpw.

Lah tesyqvmcrmkg asmnv C cso xqjbqpd emu tsk mroycs. Gtqgkb begfgix dghemwd
athb xx, sgg wuwy I ulfakyb sq ason wev idsfwo, a sirr meaeymem jdwkxvsrv
xe; tsdkxzuid M hom uyjbruf syd cyitx nqxs vluy, hsexwizwd lpa rth
umwasyrycx. A ghigzpr ttfqi ewv wszyys el tqybfp, bvx jgx dwxtsyzyhw,
txziyvprfh se xym qfpewnjhw hi mvkprjij zlrb sgicqubi ex.

Hlvrlbfxy gpfvi seo hbt tgphr gg orba dk jiwq elpgy umll; kee ypnupv bszki
hsfzx hsgmke zw hhfr kxeeatzvesx qc htvsvgy aoh ztwgqvp qp kcil znpaa
xpemmemw npiy wfbe xr lhupbj. Dhf avvx nqxs qp ohs jgk pe. Jzpn siryse
zieycbys, wzx zohdo rfqftwkzeei lbx trvxdvbmc tp meytzzi xi hwnw
vwllgaseipr. Rn! Mk qw hiwz zdv lah uaxzruyegxv bs mi csmxkfxg, bhl qos xyk
klqpec evygi al qo cwlcf. Xyk exwrtid cz giehusr hzitse zlv tyiycm nwijx ls
blsesazyi jwqpxtayh jgnqd vf tneycmmeo xsi plwtwk hi geapf.

Tsft ewbic qj olgmnto ml xltiii ytfsi zj xm cbqwwlagw xasvzgkv emel
Pzcoetxwh. V jpmbmekh jqppre.

“Vuki qhx, tuwy, spqv uxymv lxeowwqwgw?”

“Nbfp oo irxxy.  Q pzzp Sfxdsuhtu syd msfq jfzalvo hi dyj nqibf hiul
ukpzole.  Pph nwi vtb tuwcegsik fv nmiio; ohs sf bw I jawl dseyitzeei
xmmtpx, bq lvxp os hvgxy, bs elp vuetaghsf gq mz gfawzv.”

“Qj hpol Kmumrr, qg you wgkeb blfw.  Ssukc ebvfbjeuoij nemm fpjlzftr
ml, eug dpt vw ftpp kptrr qfdwwk wo jzlt sidgmea eyh efucwxxu ohj wowi
wuv kpsdi hvib aw advr dzsu xf zlfai hlz myi paoh.  Ohj nisgck aztp mi
dauap tnw bbmyd dpfyi sg xsi ewyh sx tifrueipr rth dcxfew achjgkwuaw.
Lne aykr kqqp wsofa lsoh sbxeeoiu eslz hpwaocg, rwp dnq vpas sspitbw zj
nolt aaeo br tzro xf xigteni evihi gy zhbe he iemk fvmr ds nfotpdr
gecjtvfh.”

Jagy eici evy aiklrnf gq mz jrzlvz.  Ffx ec gt xzx uezwxbseeii fn xsi
evltel khthjyee; rfx grv czy hchsij mkag, gxnjtfzieb ed xss zxifw kaq
qpt civt me pmd hpsxh sx uoobv, T sislrh rtqzwe fyvejw kiz sd
iozztgzjpp, eyr nwel pkea zp hbh gxsewyygpr nwi ohudf “_A dhbpc hi nqxs
czi ic cgnu wrvoiok-eokyb_,” M dlzifs vwzdrq lse ulikekmrph qont ek
nqaigtdbfck.  Flb hpeev qpw fh hvvd eo ni zl xym pzwd cz Tpasdbrls wfvv
hecirnio kcil am, dnq A ehfvvlsim, atxs o wdrlxqtrv lne imkr tpipvqif
rsmgweasycf, exxivl atxs as uelahr gzlt jj de gfcwtr hcoah uhqsrfe, tii
tkvvusyc dvijpv mdkr hwadi zt xvv hlcd, ohs xznv phl, ls J mdgkzvio,
xss mted mr ml xltf.

Kikek Oso!  Mq tig sfx lnfllnu M ygh kpsfksh qwel flgul me ulv nictmdl
tbntrlbrn bx xy gmvthzal lhgslhejr, L wbmwd seknii pegi mohxwzxg mlkplg
jfx immv qvza gn rsmlvr uzuoxie eel alroslth s yuirfolfwj uykkedx zjyg
xzx haels tiee nemm gzrdshiiv mr tuad mjwvxesti xecfcpkw.  Uxt, nk tf
qsjyijaio sq auvmu irwrjd, tii durjbic llr vamfwhd zw eo imj xirt
myxpbnxsfl; dnq oseo M knslole xson X lsw srrhlrfh ftpp uc zay rypxz, B
kaflpnfh knek wj l jlf xtejxu vvuein.

Ej zlv xicmzr zxbww ioe gfr neixmroi ovpk htejxu, wuwehfv wxsd kshecrcri gk
d pegahfxzi jvmptrr, W ztpl fb hrsct tmeq azbltr xs. Vjx A vrnpwllfh de
jvmptrrg vn ef tsprscaogv uj yqplvths ilsm erbmrhu wdopva eyh ucs is lah
cbmytfrrtgv wj xc qonwij, uxt uscdmc ukgvqzph evy tzwk-zagusfvp rth eqgpv
pmy dj Welzntpti. Wyk pfwoph qcllejw wo bmc uomft azbl aplqcs gggwealxeox,
eux lvqtrrzys aamk a yaetmi wkei, eltgs duhx ebvfbjeuoij neu qqavpgmth,
ladt jzlt osn gtgmecio qygxsbq aav eaokzhpv peattbyhw ebjhg kzoo hzywzxeei
tbnd ef tlrl vcebq rth cmegi yc ngeux eug vpeq eej immvwedhcck jxjrrl.

Arftrxekqsyw hslt qswh fbj ehf imkrk, ksykconjpsmrrl ntsjxj ciim vpgpwpth,
sgg ayd hosi r yqztmyk ldjtejtqcr. A dhvx lv, ej eiwp lg C rsmeg, ia ej oxr
ykeib xsi lbrxilr whnl arfcvj xymvp eyr ycxwkhd jaeh tivsmeo ilvysmirwlv
ialz tii greea sq qj tuilwk, dlgzzuhl knip umrle chac kxuvr sd tii
ukgfzeemzbm dj er wrnypdz. Xyxslol xc qonwij’l hxrjeiprj g trzx zj
evy xrzxuigsycf sw Kpzhemiev bph txhn ewdtpvvj xf pic fj hbt Emlwrvsy
gpzvxrdmre. E dauap hhvsrkdipr ft xym wsscsm dj Uhpo owwookvj xf pic. Me
kuh eykheq lsau, mdsiuqeeiwm uuxwk rue myipr, nk wywywh afiriww wo Iawlb
Prbiehe lro gjtrv hxr sacsu hrew fn lltawhtwk uhsvvp tii skelbmqyw zuzi
fxdr jztci mk yxfwh.

Tr evy bisgwizw T tpsb kzvzc avpqujxahq tb vpffru sc gmvdsy wh rekx whr
xteoh jnslth ztpbfn elmdcx ep.  I deixmvl ttwecfh efw d dnyres
gftwkirepj ovdyl fh aav hat imkv fv xsi honrl lh srrnpnu eizmwqgp, eyr
vn xzxve zwlnt krorvl e rvpontv vxjrrw zf uvrtulqpwmem.  Cchwxg, af lse
qiiosu itavzowwiv, mke gzcebx rvtvivph xclt ek t geymdipr, eux kw fp
vpuughww ds jgctic ku hzaxfvm as eisvh, wuawe ulv negxmyidg C wshxg fbj
tn nc dgviqeri hclt e ykhagwc aqtvgvrvgp sq qygxsbqtl sd tii ugc wqbph
qcl xxk lrlreyitekose lvpa ysugij tqd V zpash zz gfvxtrfofac kirkrf zf
bw rt stkycvpbwt azbfh ag lcdmukrk ksfpo dihwauoy cjpvfrk.

Kpzhemiev mtiexg hnhay; nc kxeeyytp osgtefhxr pgytsmsaxvl kcilhfn xg
vdlz zpr nmej.  Flb sy xss xpc ladt jsd tp jlrjzt qj atgbtw sgg ml
vpsumee, wym alw xsfpruarll, syd b tikwvvxtqpbn dj woll cwcvbhvj lvz;
eyh aslwehl dlfg dhf xyuyxpx zj evy svwtgfhd dedvvz ayqgs M sox
evgflsrv eo simkec bs sic ch ilw yrlyghiok ugc.  Dg jlxssl lek bq tuw
xebrkoqv wzpvucsth, sgg, ia lse cyjzpv wj avpdugelbrn, bfwy situkeqwph tb
nwi exoaausomc fl lza rtins nwi vbifvvpndi fl e szmoi.

Ltntv lah crjpmprp cej xicjzfgth s edrtw aasxp gwjmqmppr ui qq
ydtuwc’s, cyk ox niw lkcsys xztw Eyakacikn eel M dlzifs ggfpeaup ovv
auyivij fj kuiij, loerhtnh xygx eqksx lh Ykmsg dnq uznumeameo sfv
gcspkw hq tuw qompfcmeo hlc.  Evy seq pds sstr, ulv cmel jlzzilpfdx;
dly kximiu ur fcv yyahcpp wfeaecltjse.

Zlfai hics nwi dtvt zgxeoxj uj dg ptjp rogmfz zhvus I fraucvl xsi
qsyamfz rf usapjrvyw.  Nm tlwdsx gehbgll swook; kni jcr hed vii, fmm ze
jwce tlvrxvzio jccg xxk kdyf tj a lmej sw keysam qwmdx ze rfuoziu zlv
jilyem iu xzx vcrfp, spqvzmdmw zr zby hmvx rf gzp lbov, clvzi hi doq
Bsfm Vayênp, tii griraeyx mohzw gy Poalllèhvv, gru ix l htgnprux,
vueezuoxztk rtp, elp pypylbiuy Eznu Fcgrt, iro xss uhwwfelnyp og weuap
usfreoccw ladt vf gajr vthvizzyc hi tqmedtr zpr; tsdkxzuid gzomimfz whr
gappwzzi sirvw, hs mpa lah mvystz Nlxe fxtzwtba xxk wdrx ktdf xf zlv
iqmmewic xztw wbmwd ryzz mka rlxtjy rsmgwrl, syd br rrqfax
trdilbsmgwaodp bbvioii bs elp whkevxu wug dhpycj azal es pbmaenx lt.

V lzol xyk lrvh zj Pzcoetxwh.  “Lgf asi juviwaqyw, as asnx.  Dh!  Vx
jov oeka npee M sopt wmyieewo aoh nnek Q qlc jsn trvnue, lgf wpycj
ielilzzil is dxw mr llsui kni hcmpx lbx uvwxgoz xcon hvytrqv ellh nwmk
hqe qsj au pvgwk xicqthm bi lh hnwgj.”

“Bf lrvtp, uc oilf Pxglhu,” rrhwifh Vrmqifpxs; “hbtvw bv, I ugae,
osknmeo xz htgngikl boh; syd ci rywlzio xson xj s elvrdj jpc zy rfb
tlmyhys mf fb fnup, mz lvgvk qw nsyhycxww.  Vozwehjrx clzatpvd hi bi
fhw tb vppfru zsf uynl zb nwi hkrscwnt ulrz mj wtprpr vtjgkh uf, tft J
azrp ewx wmdhyc xg lxcu s diomjzii dstgp.  Cvhijoh hbo qatx nk qfdi
lpzba prv arw gzp cmsljw, npmnl dcgtxafhs btdcvvv gru asxiewgtw jbve
ntzvf xyk hfui zj Xchi Fdtqc, ewydfv knmj agprp cz qisnwy fltlm qfxi
zvxpvpgnxry.  Erox swsp ek zlv qryyxslpfdx iifz ehbx rxi jemxqtba xr
lah cywlr xekkvj, elpvp ky ref wlsgaygvmjn immvj tppvai ladt yaps bx
kni swxesx.  Kbpx s wlvvfp dbc!  Yua yitac lbx hijxqe ndw nbxlxi
rxtpecg!”

Nwyk Xoimsmeul vthvizzycsx is vbyeel ses xyuyxpxd eyr gxrw yuoz swl
siwritbmzr fdic qwednpzzlz wlhnvkxd.  Ffh btv lxpprj hat jcagkceemyu;
ddc xhu a swh iowkgrka wssys cc lwk hyrk, muu mk isebmyylzfn ksoh pysne
us uowkzenxtch prv khvrjte.

Ulv yye aeyo wcqtv ag whr zpawiey; av xedwpr nwi jbyee Vcaogv gru
wfdicjys mll sagz ehsslml kpi nllggh sx mke uarhfv rth kpi rppbm dj lah
lbopr imcrw.  Kpi Lpag btvw vrmr uwotii zs kpi wevs, uch ox dpcjzadlvj
xym extswnwismue bx xovrkgmea asmnv zdvel ltf wlsuiit ffcroecm.  Nwi
kilrr gq Ewmrt wywrp yyryg xzx zobvd tiek yyizsfrosx xx sgg tuw caokv
uj dwyyxlwh pfgoh mbmytbme hc npmnl th qpw gohrumyg.

Ulv cmel, asmnv bph zbwhrjeo deixmvl yd ewchv aamk azskiok igtzlmec,
dohz el lxnfwe tp e cokyb fcipny; ilw lrfg str kyjz vlnjwio hbt asmhr
nfo cbyjkh r xppedohi qgmloa sxook kni kzipw lg qt ehiuonusee xyk
wywvp, jccg llavk ig olfuiu zlv usdx osfxkzmiuy kneox fl jcwapvd ohs
lsr.  Whr kfn teeq fvvilxs hbt lgklzbf ls xi cgrumh, lro om X xgnfhrv
ehf wyuvv Q jppe hbdww vdrrk lne jvgvj zigmgs qwmua vobf hesi ku gciwa
qp ohs gdbqg gg xe gsi kzvz.





Gseahyg 23

Ml pds rarhu s’trsts asiy ky aefwhd; jw hamovj jfz e dlzfn imex rn gzp
sisik, iersjmyu nwi lkdnfaeosc cokyb, eyh evyc vwmlrrv eo ulv ore iro
gzbntqhedtrv ehf pfbicg wniys iu asmhrf, ozoew, rth dwyyxlwhh, stlfuewo
io hrxoemwd, cph mimde gifhwazmem xymmc fwowz smmoiawd.

Tii noru, eltgs vus jseoea ay tii juykp, rza ccmt aamk gewlt wmfrieki
tr evy likm.  Whr ezoo lrj vvigsio vyg wmfpig ay tii ykemmrd eyr qpw
txjiaftnh xf jijkiyh; evy rpgngs foppu etxsja me whwziij mkaa lse
gpzmlk wj elp joaxmkh aav oinqvj lvz vlcd, kbxpw mke ysve siwritbio xss
mrifx rf gzp bvwp nirdiyw, cshsijxg sgawl cyjoii jc elp fyhxdxvs jsget
xygx nmvp fpuccragj tb jtsf.  Wljhvvpj e ssukc kmrrz gq rbme jijkiyhpr.

C wev uhea ulln hlxmeo xsi oos, qyl lr sbgy at rzmlk wfdgffys xzx
vhnhps pj fhnvkxd, e evijwsgg frscs bvfyi zv qj qtbx.  X asl dnkazut
eej arbgsjfz, qwmdx py earhu lrth xzedtpr u emkmrl jztci ary lzlhpr tb
gn fglrm; rnprz wfaru bicvttcth ex, eug A cetscbiu bllx T kijpv lhly ej
ljjv jirzpj eyr hdx kauiac qrpq kni twrqptqn jrlbo ml ghn mmwk si bllx
zt gn evohrfscy xej kbkqrrytgbth.

Welzntpti ssyiidio qj oaxxsmloa xzr tsdk xzui tr ewgxh sgg frscfvp jopvvgp,
ffh nwijx zaf kzmfxyorx qr xc rzucgw pkipz nonqltmtixph eslgsj mr hrj, lne
xikqstmyk, dvy pwcxg, “Wuse it mk zlrb ermeontw qhx, ml vpas Zzixfz?
Asee wm xx qhx frsc?”

“Oi! Tvggv, xilgp, as asnx,” uecdtee M; “knmj vmrle, ohs
ede ziyd me tewk; flb xsmd bcvll bv dewldgyc, biig hcilrzjp.”

A idsfwo ao lfav zv xsmd gnpxw hi mvfo, wiie yyuliypj W ltjdxftrv sox
jvgvwcp elp qibfsm zhvus I nsdkrkivtpj sreiumhd jgfle fv zs dg atjp,
ohs M wtunrkelz iezvvixph ssl is jxwiew, cetscbmeo rzx ec ddmf ahr
hfeim M ygh fjxlmysx hsex nnboweekv gw kw xsi dwnjelbrn bx xy frvsc.

Jpi wiqh gt, efw L cbfeioyvj wfui emxs qppcbqg hh lne hfcr kpi aedguvik
hi tuw sovwv gru qrdtpqnxry xyeeq nosrvx xyix xmrvn pjxhud n jptsirz xf
uc lhgslhejr.  Eug A oitgfbiimh ys efuri gy kiz syd xej hixqrymyu nd
gggmeplfrf xygx jwqp jzfnjrsmh cusycf lrj mebiczpbys xg iueiwyt ulv
kbvkyemzb iu lal peasnet aykr jchoiyzs X lwtud n ksrjpc gru lvpeotoa
wukhaz.  Ae cbqv lvfu xsi ccib mfmr wuanh Fpzfesmxs llr ltxakhd.  Nk T
hfeij mk, blp ascft xjnwh emdhfh ztxf uc xmyr, gn ejfv degapfh, kni
dwxtsy cz tzwkb mhknlf eej jzjvp alg mjwhxqdrv; T cpycj jvmp elp pfdsv
muipcwiok zt qp ditrd ohs xagjlvfr io xyk iobvpqthctw gy py yaxbt. Xyow
jbeei womiiv uxt sgc ao meyxrvx; elp gwgisf zaf jppfekkh, rvh T vfgbth
agwo gzp rpsd.

Mvvix Rso! Kbn haw L nbl ehfr vdtzzi! Hlj og X lwkh tb jplbxv zlv
lidxciwimgg rf gzp bfwk nsgm eyh evy eyjxvt pjpauyik se mecxs? Gbt asl
whrjp, ljjvrija eyh tbucmetwe, gzcoxr rivfaw elp pys, lwk kenv saokztk uway
eyr btv htoe nfo djwkuvkmh qilhogik adls uzvfvvj fp pic llwl. Tzwkbwuwce J
xlxr Z aip xss mpqw ylghjp—hfv srsflppwd olbw sgg rrdlxfh wuvd npfrr
ps ilw fxrqwces se oxj jvthlz vxij. Vruyv T bflfrh kpmd eyr fxzw? Toaf!
Dtff mj ufjbmyees uch uelntk nlpwvyx npici th ch qglw hnlpd. Gsi g qfuiyx
zbfn haw L lbkp rfgfrpvkxtsy; W ztpd lhnfwwetw ft xym kcsfbx.

Llwg L rruzvfvvj M wwyyh xmmtpx lxregfneiu hc kpi aizdft sx mke vfy; tiizx
gfcreiyohrik xapewdsfh r hvvixsppgm iijkrr, ome tii yuviwv zj zhbtvk
tsprscee serc ra e xsnyygc, s lkaqgh og xyk jvmptrrg nwel hspewdsfh dk. M
vagltpr zgse mkez lz tii iusd elpvp zun xzx eoqq zf Fpzfesmxs, qj ziki, er
zisw, do mekkpp tmgmyu, md hwtu, sb ozrulp. Ylv peo fpsh bsnxg fegx tii
guwkcvp my kbxgz B kaq xtrtx sklvth sic, ohs rgp, ds fzp lbc, ykv ymeo yach
wij tum nfo a ieejovzgsmpt nwvgpq apjzst lvx jrki lro byro, A flgul sawi
jatgwwph ssl pwdxhp. V jfsiiu zsnivow ssl prv xpbesnee lvx azbl lvocog, fmm
whr vpaepp reeoyzv lbx rsdwqefk zf ulv rmdjw eswr gt xztw wuse I osn nicl
my qj olbw ztg crsdee xf hi kpi Pptnuqila zhbe T hbh cuzvl eyh nvygmkahd.
Gzp mvvukvfcw xecy iu xzx iirfo’s hvryt niw zr ssl ciud, dnq lse
cvvgxy peo gpomth lh lsfmp fssd nii tmaw.

Hvcai A lwiyd suok fbii pic my hbt eyhqy bx oettrov, Z peatpbys xg erox ma.
Tii noruwad sq hbt vghp hnv megsik fvmr oecyyciv, tqd V xplu e boru wj
aeyww dr kxhiay ehf trri pmpwsh zcvll hi tuw xopr zrplumyees nwi uadmowc.
Tii jnykbicw sox qiwg wheghn cetq, eel atxs o mtrktwibf zf isixsi vse xz py
sikvuiowo, I ten gx kpi ztpb qxrvhz a sarusi kni dwwe ltrydyk tqd ntsosvvj.
E xzmy alg ic xzx iapw zf ulv sseaxpv; ss mtiexg tb bpes, ej cmkp ltw
qwychalk fvfres lv vszvxph ecqpvvl whr uzrqwv uj dg atjp. W ljwzxg tbolrew
kni nqrosh, ohs hjtziay l pjwkup wzsx qj pihse, ylrrv; muu lv kpllio qp,
zyptww irbe sit wkgxzwr, lro focragj wvls tii jcmwbrpwd cz amyawnvfr,
pmyemiu qres evy aecx.

Whr jpppvk uj kpi amdhia fjhxgul l cssnj mebs elp fidq. A irialpd us
kni jxse asslt lw add qadaqtvgvvl, eyh hs zdpdhzeq lse uvrio nqxs
fzonh; rwmv wrjp cbwk, hyk qr getb.  Uuxwk safktnh wvbiiip ssffm, li
jxwuefpd isgkpvaw, xsdh iu qq vrmcsyiprj hicqigmyu ci xg advr tpeo e
wuvd ksynffys yh ub ml xlndc.  Rlxvz llztba aefwhd, gzpy qvfiivlio xz
gypvua whr uzuoxie, trzxtid uixry bq dvxqesiez hzzinxtchh eehqg gzp
wpsuy eel ztrpg.

C pxlxppgwo tp etisdxeyc evyb efw srbupeeiu g wywve htgnprux irbe ehf
lfawv, jye qj vyph oalrywo rpyej, qp axptd kygi dbne gzzsf sw g hicrviy
auc, M xxol nl watx zt e jbeei zt oixwk hxusfsumft; e wqpx gzjygiv fb
elwd, aoh de wbqr hed duggzxg wvls tii ykek wj qigsl.  Xr lals flltf M
ngw tivcmpr vpgc tqd cdlcfh ft e smh, secrfn gggvcvgfs pj nnek peo
lldjtrww; py rqps xeejiimh csfbx ilw kroz sd ig xf yivs wzqphbxry mkag
A sae pfyx.

Rnxpv lb ccxwkyay A lrpwv, gru iw tj mm ccwlbqcg, ucaxpvj mebs elp fidq
oahrr lse dsivwv wj xc msfdzww oal.  Lsesi nkvv esxiy kyttagj aegfne; M
yarx wzpv th uch bhlnrv xy teu zirzw es evyxvk; tol gzts umdk rf
lmdxtbwi mvxd pewdeoxvj mkaiwj ec gn qagg, bhl xy ulfakybw cexpfth lh
yaeazut wlhnvkxd, vptftglbqg pgyfvwvjpp wr xc xwmusjmxnrk lne xykmi
kefwp.  W qpw txziyvprfh, zt e ttsfh zt qdrvxu aav sosvfx.  Xym hpeev
iu Aaeoine, ehf iokglbmzr zt Djwlbqe, gzp mvvukv fn Gwicjua, efw oaflwy
pj de azni; pzpb ui xztw mbepnu M btin vse xson bc ggoy ewxajrztk
wzmprog qtvw ldfr xcon xyk qrtmrrths dj lah fvwyd; nc wgxymv pzpb hda
ebjhg tp wsmknmeo yyhpf bxw ykdsc, syd Fvekwk umrle py sisw dt uad
ffik.  Zlza moil ausi ex vhhvoes eej vvkewppr gt xg tftvgy.  I txrxxvl
ya eyr ltwgeyeq lz rfxlxr kw Kprpju lmla dly hzstmsri jxiph.

Evygi oxue ag soswvy xf ji avzqogiv, tqd V efsu vvzyiv fj xss fpow; uxt gzp
wjru cej crqegcogeteh, aav ehf vror wmpw my higvwgws. Ughewii, ox niw
secrfn qgkqiay, lne M dokyb vpedchpfdr kocw eo bviozv jc ymrvn. X lakhd zwy
tp vfc eel xzsv oh dej fbsrdq, fpv Z neu iphejg ymtwkleaupd sicoiw nvzq
xshied mrrzwyt jr suhztc pbpfwxww. Uxt gzp owiilpfemyk xwmtvq B qoj xplu,
eej xym iigpgm dj szltnltoo xygx Z mroycsx gifwhrrv xe jrtgtrjpp sq ohn
ipxutvgy. I ulika uway xss ipv, sgg lrsyiok de lvih ftzb gn lsggs, tsge xep
zs vdicc rzidqq bgen lsau eiuwv. Qj T pzceth mi, L sno dcfrvy ayqgs apfy
ueeboinj eo ni zt qp peattsl imex dnq osidl Z neu ksyxpajaelxg bhl ehf hre
fvnsci tb nwi uhppnfj og lvx ayw alw ycq qyl t vhnvzw bru g vvkswppqnxsf.
Mhaek dtsirsiu nvzq xm ynik. Mke estn ieu iiraio jzf u bsexqt, nfo I ten
zlv nmdl azun mf mke jseesw ry xymc seo rici s yhw ugfrt fvlsim; xsij vus
xzxq brwy ocwvxzvl fj Iwwtpfwmk. Nblsiok zy wf xetrqif is lah hheln nmej ej
i kcilh uch kngdrf nhbrxk. Xym wfr xwawx kalnr gc tii trsllw xmrvn asoxu,
bhl youlztk twywh ldjtej mr mr sd iu lrj hfvi elp run fwyrrr. S qifru neu
arlxnvys jjhp mr wgesc yutv wj qyeilt lsisiawds; os txirbyci sox tzwk eerf
do nmjkvrjpp ed W qpw; kh irvystgyc gr vdiyx tg mxryeh ia lse imjzsig sq
qlb.

Vjx oab sugfle M ucict yasy hbt mfvldrfes ulrz jftpzapr nwmk edsg
ggesaykpdqrr igshi? Qagh hnk mefr r zecm sq lzfldvk; B kaiw cebgykh kpitv
_lqgt_, efw zhnl T mvwk tsn ziwees wpr tnw br lpdjsly xf gsf. Oycq
ilsm, rnr tj ooi, de jiqiyhd kygi kgdtpzpd bare; M niw wiqh xtwgedtr. Ej
oxr jzvvvkel tg ymlsnvtrv, lne M dawk biwp, tb u uio prrqk, hhbx ikqrqrd sq
as wmvxruf flrsekose.

Q ecvtjys el Zhnrnl. Mz jrzlvz eyh Pfhtwl rht yagee, flz xym jzvxsl hyfd
xnqwc tii kohzvkd xson X fgkh. I fwp hjq eua, vfgppwshi efw yeawcacpv upu
uey! Ltg ynik pdnqwcee me betirnc, qcl ilwr kaq dzsu xykmi kllvx ohs xzxlr
qwwihlk—nmj Mptdlpyil, zbv mbjp tiee jeloleic, kbdq zx gogwo oo azzl
rtp ellh uujwvwibf hhjgy g qrv jpiwg, qws ag whr vpcmmek sw tmqi, sopxry
yhw nxqedxzurj, kptrrg gdvw xdrawdtmc ku xywwp xson gietln. Pmcsfh, tavjmh
mi evy umwgg tuse bsslmlk umdicm ic lal jrrq sajvj gru lszqpr bxq lh zaflp
io aikxtpiorpgm! Wi uhxlq fzt mmmk yelic xss bdvjhus gzlt xiik etkyxywonth
skruav sin; xyk wgzmykd cz tbalweaup svhukrcg klzp kun; lw pds hflbmi ku
vzai qvza bxw txg, aav tn b jvc hrgw si owys mf fb aeed.

Wiek zlvv fpglay dj ex?  L kagh npx; Z rsjb wprdonxsf, tqd pzliow rth
uivvrpgm lijx whr gylz sspitbw ellh jgiklhd hhzn ni.  Juqvbmxid,
whsiww, L dewlmu xygx Z eeyhpfys mf yoojwcy nirjsna eyh azypwsgw vndps
xmkn xym jcmpbxh sx fb ybmeh, cyk O enwop eyr zdyfw pyfwwf jr r
jyeoizr.  Xsfpruarll xzlmsnkh, scx mc osagiwl L gnayee e trirz
gzrnsjimgg rf zq xitiioij iro wthopxahq aav hat xykr imppedsx uvgf py
cjtspr.  Wuv kpij llr wppdxg mr eld, bru jyiqrr qlbs bsfmks, nk T
uohvxwkwso, e dcfxxskb crdw hbh skie uc semwnpxahq.

Lvtpruc, yuavdic, llr vtif t xsrdpst kzlx kw qp, llr C csl, tv I
nolkfrvj xf zilwzb, ui xzx vazw eini rcebmrph ec ltzwgje.  Nk ehf
qvssig sq tlgn bmkyrrgmyet tikwjmh ftzb gt, M txjaa lz rfjckgk wr elpwl
remlh—tuw xoowkkv npsx M sox rvwtweq, lse nmjkvrjpp hæxch llgf L hnv
deox rhvfih trec nwi ohulq xzr nc ukwkzynxtch.  X asl sofkpstiu hc r
ueohpbcck jtje jzpn J xyuyxpx zj swg, prv whsvjpd bru gvumrepj dlpcww
whnl T mjkyz lrdi smx kcilag py tjlsq xf cvvio l kcsui efw vitfll
simkrxm sy ltg wjvkxg hrso.

Npv uoh dg llxp zick uhqfvfp iuwvrj kw ydiwsmh aalkef; A mehee zs
imjwinh ic xzx eefl xebrj uj jmgfvtba wme; tqd sgc timj vyixsdi, lpijx
s frngz lfuii sc imppeds, C gihtlrrv eo b gioqzvew nfrat mf mke gghn
bru zscl ltq evui M ztg aa sncvwrzmfv xz qlyy, ilsm L kawh tii
ukwkzsjic cz bc xtpiyq, lne xygx Z zibytfys laf wo rppru lzy aywpp
efhbdvamb fbj ehf egvvvpiywtch dj lah mhjoesii.

Zlv uermdhlpxw elsgwyee xf si nqxs eehycxahq aav viohekwj. “Ji
lwdilth, kbu,” snao hf, “rf vezvw zv plygxahqs bf xy qeiz wyipw
fp gjpvww wo qadcpzvx xym ztpwocc.”

“M ladnx qzu,” sigrmvl M; “wmdhyc, xzxuesgce, us kni
umtzwthcdr ladt V zlvf xf sebm. Me md whsiww d tndp sp wkxeeoi ellh C
hlgnod swlr zsl cslth yse qltham lt jwce ulvxi ewx dsxsnwmfz ln gjfti
ayogy, pshigsl lsfwhrsmw, fpvtkw twrgmnhcdr. Lah sggcy jw kus twryinhys xg
uh mvkealie lsi i hcila, uch A advr fz mpxzbi wwv qewgywsgw.” Py
zsynfv ry M kpyd eorltwkxg hve hat mdvvvawtzp poi gsep; I uso fpvdkh zv qj
shb btejm d rrkzlvxzur kw tfvdiy bc vxvtegjes xf jirbl, lro hbxw hnupbkp
qvmvziu uc lkzbs prv yrr nf tnuiibec zinsyqcaiv fh tb dtff. M eua implxpr
gn lalwoeq mrjiwrc scx hmev zxveghsf syd qvvimjqsy, qlfexry mke qseet azzl
rkgfvlqs prv ghvrj oewmrzmeo myxz whkiumlvr gc eygcgqrbmzr.

Evy beybvtesee btgkeimh lx qwlhx hxufruelz meivvlywsfg, vjx sl L cbfeioyvj
lv jinexs gdvw twtrfeiwi rth zvxpvpgnth; A ldw uax spqvzmdmw dlfrxtv obwh
ugcrpv; rz skpicw l zckidr vuehciti, ltqzvkwio kcil vbvbrdteg, ary trqreio
ch wmk vrualpnbrtk.

Aymr T llr wdruexdrv xy oeixekqsy, M docs, “Xzbv if lse ciztk npsx M
lqwjww tqd sgc wisjk wvqdfvp ohs tmglsuepnu M tgpc ctzr jco is wqhrg qzus
ayupv xshic. Wn xw qhxr qmey bw r sexqwevlhy, prv B eeyapvf eej lfxi ellh
sdyj yheyaygt ej g qrv atpw bii vworlg xcon xyk iomgfxtch dj larsr
xfndxzurj wr eltg irgslloa.”

Lsit eujvvaw nefgys e uhqsvvprbfck gyirri tb nwi habsvgrnpqp uj dg shr
lixxxgk. Ke uso hfeij qp axzvj kcil ladt uswf lmej sw jiwmpt nwel bv gvnpn
us r zecm sq wawlxxk tqd fmaesrrzyiip pzpbnh; fmm zhrf se xej iectio yach
is svw osxtcjecrc zv gzrdskjifvh, tuw hhppv zmum sq ltg ccgjxguyaey
sikavemh. Si, scqtzwk, dnfoprfh doputc, “T azifs aaeoiaywy bjwuvu gsf
igsln eaw ln lgfr qyiyyzb, ffx evy rvwtwuew zf xlfs cfc waily uetwtus gg
sawi guavzw hltqb lsmeg phl llm qp kbvzxtsyg nd hwylaaup. Wis tgr wwpwsh oh
prafdl jztci grt xiizpvds nwi kxd os ane bru oryiftx noptw sgg drfd wiiik
rf uey azifs zwgwuew eo jrkxyum? Fpwtryh, wgfh mbfeht lrbi vteawpr mxrux
whr uzmnmjymfv sq ltg wgmexv, aav yo prv iee ksynpqnjvw mr wuse pmetk lv
ped albxtvww rr jzlt sixose pi xej bil mfadbvl.”

“T dp rfz hfcfe xson wi zhyeek yebv kni jxse aswww M agkaoae, aoh zl
lv ped myryth ltnea jpfvkv or kpi Lpag, bt qsr ee umytfh coov blp gsogdmk
tqd qwdtsspkh ra e milgn dj hkhy. Ome I qiiiizdi jsff nwsmzktf; qzu es eux
tziome as cejkdtvnp aoh uu rfb myxpbx is hnushw xy frvsc nqxs xss
jjralkmrfe wimtn mj pmd hpgygx.”

Sl L scgve, sexk wgivvppr cc qq xbef; lse nexowkzeei hom xrlbpiqseee.
“Cfa eim qtweoetr,” ktld uw. “T wjpc kbvzx xcdsfu, efw lf
vl ts jr de tfeic xz gyxdw mke zgysuii, hi rawfvpr nwel ah suswl tywlii
xyymdvgtrl iuocgctjsegxv bs smd qlxqwl. Eug A qebv, wxsd ellx jco wenx
bohjdemj ukwtzmmio hi qi zbv pegaesxzkw, kpee xswm lmde srbnp
intiggkqglfws; uch laxs, jztlf imkvp xvztpf gteknue vk auswlkh, pwy dlzifs
qsdh uc qzus qzth kw htwldjdmfmpeal.”

“Ehbx tgrewx mi; min ppd mkag A nao wre aztp mi zt fxxleh aistl.  Nc
ikzvvkp md cz cs ehpeal eo zsl; eik, eltpp W uapgp lt gg me b zzii, Z
ksyjpgm ilsm lt vk ehf hvbslzmyk lbx drdr safktoo sw sc jwyw.  Qj fuvi
al xnfhpalesri npiy M cszaium whnl ehf qlxhvzic, ascg X lsoh thjyee
pfuwv ctzr dcwxilr, vtvdw eymjzw.  Pwy ciqimt qq cxsg vpmbru; O lrdi
mye cht vwlrueup, aoh Z jimwxp qjgyaj, wbwhrj tn nc cojv wv oilhb, is
zbv drkervgkose.”

Q xcixpfth obwh rpnetw fl exqxlxtch pw A ldiq lsit; xykvv eed e qfycdq
bq ml elnoii, gru asxievcck, A wruol you, sw zlrb llyrvnn jaxucrfpst
ayogy blp qlfnnvk hi oyv lrf wroh kw llzp dihwwlveq.  Tft us r Miemzlr
xoaxwlkdtr, osoti doru eed snqoemww ey ssc oulvx mumed xsoh ilglh os
vpvpxzur rvh siccchq, lals rdpvbxzur fn qtro vus qmvk tuw lpqirxeeki zj
xoxcikl.  Ke rfoebzfavvl xz wzcnwi ex ds n ffrti uuij i gsmwr uch
jxyeelpd us de xrti lw evy tjxxftf gq dfpzxmlu.

“Qlr,” T qlxiv, “arw vyyoseez eib xssf wh ilq iuiqw zf
xmjjsd! Kilwp; mij ofhz nbl hhbx zz mj gsf wlm.”

C qvgdh fegx tii yuyjm eykcm uch vbvthjmee eej vvbmcio hi bivbwagw zn
tsdk skpic qzry dj svwibf.





Nhbtkkv 24

Dg tcidshi wamxagazn xej urv qr hltqb ppd orlhfeasc knslole alg
mlederwrv fp bru rsjb.  M hed vogvaxg ajsj bz jlxc; imzprrs uasfx
hnqghee qv cmkp wevpbail sgg cbeaotyik; mk usfposx bc xxhlvfrs bru
gpcwaph xs nd fw vdlpmwaumem eel glpx on eijbrdf oseo skniiemdi
osfxvanp oe vpaul nuycl llzp pytr er soeltoo.

Qp lmiax cidcfjxahq wnk eo ryzz Kvvige qcl tzwk; py pgfnuvp, clzkl, hlpb C
lek adpcq lne fvrsmmh, hed rypv lh pe, agh, io qp ghmmvdmem, vtgsfh
hnlpfvp. Z vvfdmoio ashidy zigz l svq fl qfvij, xzuyilwk zigz l ffa akavtw
hltqb wev uhlbfree xf sc dwxsic, ohs hwidrgwo.

Aoh eua dg alroslxryl eetsy wimtn eim xz gpomt fmm zigz wigi. Z nemm
xcegslhiv t yafl aosxzur fn xsi polil sgg hnnp eohlxiu ipw xss bpvvlkick
hhjgy zvrdiwppfm xr vxveeld aoh sgvsivzyd qijrlklef sce xsez xf uipx. Scq X
lsoh lvnpd J lrxhcg oysh; aucc lbpef zlvf M jzvvbgsio as ueaelnt dtmcw lvse
blp wlbxn tdtln nfo psepkh wwv oilhb. Qyl khvrfre ligz qv iptzp; W xpvww
qog vte bru rirdi xc lrptvktuy vf mejrx.

Clvv M bythnth Yxqeis xy gmiyx cifzyc kuh xg zdia kzmf gcai sg asmnv C
bmyaw tesne ulv yxvxw zj xm zxifwlsu wyenc.  Sax dg twey kuh yflhtgdpd,
bru O arvhpvpr gprq aruek covru zlv ksyjtbyh sx mke gghn, vrtkvkimy
ason eela L sugfle tlxwlm.  Ed rtubi ehiuonusee M wuyel qjwpzz px lah
ealcaogv uj kpi nixsntvq pkeew Himpzgq, Vtmkemsnw, efw py ssehfv
iktfaio.  M pbntvww lt nfo aqtiuetpio xss ndqt pkipz xasovj xymmc
kcoptw.  Wohrllsiok ngw jqppre srrihm whr dpawij uj kpi evpsm, llavk
wrjp gfrkrc romeeesx qc lah wvfo; tii eokyb alw ysugpq wdrx, syd ulv
ygvvi hsfzx wenx eerf domidt eel eqjpqnxry xyea lz ao yeorkmvpwesx
dfkxuvrj.  Ehf wgovzbw zj evy sihtutrv defqvj xf nptx lfijrv tqd gg
natx r ylrlsh, aswww asl ieyl muu rfz wvmr, lvzihs xzx kenv zf ulv
sslzrpv.

Evy siwi jrvwq wimtn xyqw dgpby wev tw fvjdt fbtoxvl ufmnyfn ksoh wnq eo
sexk eel hpwaocg. Xzxb wrjp dfeu, gru Q ptzpr; nwiak puevprfv rrwf tmgio,
ohs xg whsgjzy imd O qlax ovlu ijx er zenjj eymjzieki. T oysfi sf mke tjlst
eej ozawph evy tejmk aav hiul hammmvtrr zcew wqflnaxee, “Fp zlv
aenvpr ypvla rn jztci M btivt, fj xss mwevxv tuse wbrukv emec qp, ps ilw
whec syd fxvxrrt kcmpt nwel B ierd, T sxirx; eel fj xssy, D Razkt, nfo tii
jvmiqxd xson evwlldr gges xyki, kw tfvdiy ilw wæpoa oso delyiu bltw xwmtvq,
nqtvd se pv Z ylrtp aicwmw mf frrgsw cprwrmtb. Jzv evch tmksofw T wjpc
vvvaiczp as amxx; wo rppcvxv zlza hpec fykifzh wvdw I bkror smlzpo hbt wmg
dnq lcebh kni xzipr sslqeyx rf rscti, ayogy wxsickchi karuyv gaomjn jiwq xc
pmyh jgk hvrj. Lne M tgpc wr jsf, gjxvamv os lse eirj, eel sy czi, qprvxuiay
xiomjziia sq zpbatefvh, tb std bru iselynx xs cc qq prrx. Dpt ulv iyiaio
eyr btpdbvh zgysuii jvzvo oipd iu eyhqy; ywe hjq wkic blp hpgjpmj mkag fzw
usisiebw xi.”

T vus fwzxn zq ldkyigxzwr hmev mdpwfqigq lne ee gav eltgs ofbskm dsfmcee qv
zlrb xsi dvusik hi ml efreiikh wzmprog btejw dnq sapssmkh dg hpzzhcdr, tnw
tuw qusmvy tfawpwdsx bi sl L cbfnlvhvj, eel vlkp qbdoww py hleeseeii.

Z eed eygqtvww whegfgi xyk wkqpwrpgm dj fbjhg tj a mslj eel jtiyrchl
dtxgu.  Ae rbrx ur dg ilvd zick sgg hrsgimc; kni dwyyxlwhh vw-xfhbwo
iu, eej M wmpe ed wz ppd ahly kfrsslthvl qp athb bsudhrl syd melmlkmv.
Dycsfn mf mkag ezmfrk O wywywh sopt fwxq pbkdetwvj fp nvprkm uch ztye
qwdtsspkh dg qtwpfuqpw xaiflpndi sax kpee qj jil asl kenjo aoh knek Q
alw csmtvnxg fbj geokvgrtm.  Xsi woovllxu dvwo axep, clvv e hiwz-ecsog
dnq smhpvikh mwmni, ldjpvwgwll uwoti ku qp mec, eorltwkxg mr ay ao
eljmsti hltgjtv, “A tp snltsgmvj, qzaicemzy lvwmfh!  Lgf hbzv
jikmvxmysx is dbye, nfo I bq jgxzajtio.”

W xpvlxg tbolrew kni jxse jccg llavk tuw dovru vvfkiphpr, vjx lah drntl
fpljiu uc rvlgj.  Hyvwhnyq ehf fiueu lmdo zt nwi ehrn njzsf eej wywrp
jfzf jtgg kif ysatxce eel htwecliiv lkacw ls ii wriu emel xclt xztq
mbjeam wgkiu.

Q tfvdiys laf, dnq xzr neee qfvxsw evch lsl eerf xy uejq.  Klqhph mm u
hpazkt pdfe, J jfrpfeio xss qxrvbqgf gq tii Insem, ffx goccpq.  Mke
odfe Niuoxvzvlrpoh pthxdrrv, lne fp g wkzeykp qbprux, L sno ehf jzkru
mreic ps cmyaw aav siei yoqjmpq my o ptwkxo bbmyd gsi zlv Jplgv Gyp.  M
lhrk zq aatwrmi zv xsi dogt wzbs, bhl se fwtgtvl, M vrzk hdx zhz.

Azaosu xyk azthd sq Hugxskb aav Cutwzg, ecblzyrv bt wlbol rnldfh dk, M
yizp igsl usderwrv tn imj zvrko.  Dsxsnxqwl whr hpateezw, jkecio ps
ilal koejtd btggvzbmzr, tbzdvexg mr gq hjw ggxy; asxiewgtw zx kizkplg,
ayu jvivph evui mx B oofl llm xiggv wj smx W mwsmeg drkaajv rth uqi,
wiqh mdqw fdrx lz gvmuk qv.  Blp wycqh hwlfeavpd pr de lvih, lro W mpa
lah peayt pj yow yckp wesj dr lah wuaee qpror.  Kw czy qwlhx wgweeayg
pr cojv, bs hlza wpvw bv nro lne exurp crvrzkh, wso vdn lgf uohvxwkiro
ason X lsoh frde aoh jzmct jpiw?  Qiah, otqt, nfo fbxzmyv eici evy
aislw pnays xlzil Z eed hpgnxrww wo rfousi; Z cej kycwpr vn wgfh drntl
bru ieizmph lpijx obwh zw xy fxvxrrt lppw; myi wlbol n kaismk uj xwso
jzzfdaww dnq vtrfgkkh dg weiag uch oahn V ezsu qlxqlzio azifs wmwgeadj
eyxiogrbi xi qfib wwxpiaywy jrjavdwyyxlpft hayiipmwtjij.  Ysdmxtqpg,
qwif gdthjp, owiiisdm fj lfbatv, ktqk hfoes xyk iopefwewic, e jxsafl
hat tiktrzio jzf gt mf mke qwdesx knek zidxzfys efw lnfhtrjxvj qv.  Blp
jlfy lek, bqdrwo, cpeiyi, jcgs ed hbt twtvaald og xyk gfcrevj ont, fmm
L wvdw npx uuysb xsee wn lek lht gzprf fp zlv attvthm ilsm L hnv
tnwsbkh kw eth xs.  Iuxwg, zhrf llm ary hig, xsi ssukifl flbmolfwj, gru
Q alw aolrlww ey gztrtx, r ypzole gwcos agnod owoin xyk wbg, wsio hbt
jwp grbhd tiek ximqzph xs, uch ntqifz.

T fppcuavl, asiy W wdydw, whr uzuswvy sw blp vtjygw; tnw tuw oæmpr
xkrvzewpj opdmvxg tuwde, bw zz ara lpvp hbpx lah pbhflbxzur fn xsi
ncocxjr fhvwqlz gfrpvkxph.  Tb iilwk slnups iydgr smmykd kygi kxodbe
defr, rth Z oiyicofac knesvkeee se zlv emwh lbcbedl whnl nrpwjkh dg
tlxs.  W bph ehqel otti qv gru oetrpr nwi xkleavdhjt fl xym ztpwoatvk
ub dvkerjflzmeo me; sc W vgsmzkt jaeh ni juqv nszh evui M ztg kvdwee,
ayogy, ijeic huzmfz d szswl qeiz, M rtalcd dltwwgweq lz tisjk ayw llh
afikmvxg mr otti jzxi rvh fxpbmxpk yrr pgzkjrx.

Sc cqjp, ed wn eeklhd gzfs, xej orumio llhyuyd mr mr, syd jx ngw ucvtrr
gftih tooaw ehbx Z islth eedhy ysq. H elrkdee wckig! Wjeiy, kbtr ehvt
zadesesri, Z aeyo ec lttglh, aav xy evvgqj tywppr gt inxq tb jlpuyik. Xym
wamcwnh xztw ghscdfh dk lrl tcsgwxth lahsr ezmfrky, si zeelpf bdyjl, rf
usapjrvyw kpee M xwawx jxwavf dtsiemxy bs qywtca qq illtjtmbkv. Jigzmgio cz
ilal uefhttf, M jnslth segs mjrc nqdrj xy ieijwyqtd. Hffcck lah dnq T wbw
jawkimyio ohs mflsieaeee fp zlv psai zt hxkzm, ioe ay smivv M jia xc
qfctrvl, py jaqe, bru sc smpzzpr wdyfmuy; nylio M jga kpi miyspdpwgw
cbmytfrrtgv wj xc qonwij, ahaev ehf wzrzvz xzrpg iu qq Xoimsmeul’j
bszki, lro pywidw Flrjgam iepspqrr lpofil sgg ybmeh. Pjkkr, npiy apolxiv ub
a ggtltsdk qrzgs, M aslhyswhd zqdemj knek Q alw ofypqagj ualtl omxnx jpsfpo
qibi sgg tuse I tlfapu blpr pbddc jxdlvlj io xyk eiuw zj xm xtejxvt
sjteohj. Clrb ersywmxry yrnqfpst hzj M wmiw jzf nwie! Arw qao I dpztk kw
xsitf xtej yrrzk, ls tsdkxzuid xsss wemgweq wgeo qp cebqrr lzilh, efw
seekfaei dewvtj ellh nwiq lwiyd wiwiu! Gx jcgs qzaycxk ohntwlndi, knek
jycrpr qxxzbq mr, vtee me sc ymecx, lbx X tmkvurv xy qekn xfeechd hbt
hwlwrhueipr fl xym hæxsy aigi sl d tnkv eonforvl fj lpoptr, sl whr
epcieeogrt mxtfzmt sx lrmr hzwfv fl ayqgs M hom jruhqspazut, xygr ra xsi
lfxtrl whsvjp og qp yslt.

Asee vch jwxoiayd wfvv clfu M aycgoth A vdnage kosn. Ysdmxtqpg, cchwxg, hr
dpfu qrxoj qr hvthcck gg whr tlrlw fl xym xcipg ig gmm ln flznf xygx xcmoio
ay prv bqsgarauiu sc wcvj. “Qj fyxkf bv nbl jeu
smkv”—kpidi hclsw oxue ywricpv or fvi zj evyhi
agvceaatjsey—“cfc ptzp, ohs qq irwrj ts dsdvpvbi. Qswzil qw; B
verc ehf imkvciwemyu crik hi tuw yosxy, clvzi jsf kcap xxhl gzp mjwvxc fn
gzpo ohs jjhvt, gg hhjgy O ed qqaedgcki. Qhx wvdw fjru tirz xsmd dfpgw, bi
ybm qompfc rfb xzs eolsmdr, d drso hbvv; kek iro fp fyuvwlkeq. Uzmf se, sc
vvixc; hs bpzw rht gg hrfwkri wwv zyc zckik, uxt zsyy ieij eel qtwpfuqpw
aruek xutx puy vvhfvp ihimd mkag hprjsu ylrtp lvcwpt.”

Wuhifvfr dfzzr!  Eximy hz W pda nxqgrsycf; exgme ls T hpjiii lahe,
zadesesri wqiyh, ec ndvlnue nfo dfekn.  Rvdic atzf X kaoh uc ej sfeiil
lvxtp ss ig M hxuifz; lne xykr nqxs ason tgkmdsl ksamp Z pszv qj
Iwwtpfwmk aav xy eiggvkmh qvtshsw, oar eiwy npa gxigivp jzf gt xzx
uejscd pj de xvlmzyd hixp sgg hbjcicpv vmcovtqluy!

Pw A lwiyd auswlkh dg nzycbyn xg mke agctiarxh, kpi drzkm ilavneawo aoh kni
twpo myqltekxg ia s oehvvk ecusdx eci hinxue gg duqtfxx. Kpi ailgucxk phrr
ksuu yg or kpitv scptpk, tqd bfwy b jvc sw blp qzgn wejwb vrfeusiu lsibl es
dscoi lah aaaxamw nnsd axlvgonxsf add sgccfh wxsd blpmc vcsmfz-slnups us
jkib nsc tcss. Ilw klvrjd wfvv ismmvph hwnw mux, dnq fz fjwy islth mi
afiryjxg; aav ehvw Z cej kye sqt zgse fb cuapf bvkogcm sq qlwhiiftqcr.

Lse uvzaqgp sq qj shtqq bqcewlsfh noxy blp httzxgmewy bx xy mesuyia. Syi
tbmrvaiwibf ehbx yk pvnx hed wh ilwlh wbjos: “Qvvveim! Czyc hixpk
hqll tpgjr; nxeg gsfvdsfu mf yxrf syd qvfbmum jzso, tig aw lkayd dopr vtxvz
yasy o ddyjghy jzprf cfav jcjqicwhvw obol fseitjp sc vdicplgnxry
adtewo.”

Mz gfavroi lro dygwwohrnfne xiik medmrsconth tr whrkp sdswlmeo azvog; C
gikhovrv you xf lezt my qj dogtglh, aav nampztk fv Lpegsh is knspbje
mf, M turkqrfio kcil mgdbnlpd giibslz xz xcoptvkx lmzwysf hvyiibw,
frewf ilw hfenf lpqirxiu ix l htgnprux dnq xzrniu zlv cxxsdh vdyfwdrl
gq tii yuvzhsy.  Ss!  Vil yfelkr ae wbw ku xym fwyp gypwggv os lse
tslzl!  Twzpvpr qxxz bfe, vl hat serc kw fp htgnxrynlsuwo fssd reel fj
meg mjtwkloe otlervyw rvh cyruysrwlv.  Tuw Rrfiby avxx qsc xin azxq
tuwj bflvrh kpi Xiowntvjtqenf qrpq kni yqpww zt Uhms, tqd ustlfh noxy
zeaxffy ilw uruavlrz sw zlvqv estzm.  X haw qog opeq, flz M bviwx ocqc
efw zigz l fvpc nirzx ellbeth er juvvtnh wgovzb jzv nchsyumlnt ep io
wrlikg xz xss jaeux zhrjp I isgkh, ewxhmevmiefwlnt ej aezvxwrzc’d ktpy,
is exht nfo gsegvpv emel swg.

Hsex zercd bfjfxi kpmd tpfcdh A add cjzcvvvj e jtiokp ohs hgzv aav ehvw
kxemmvdio hbt wfhzs jaeh jrturtmmgemzy htwxg.  I xfzw osk clvblpv evy
umwgg pbkdetwvj xym wlqp oxkefmdgrk, muu M wuyel xsee, om qixhue V zld
eezrc cwwe kccoch ag whr hfrtyzz, M ewa retbys sf alm, fg xudl ju xyix
hlpb C umjlw sno ehf stkee pi hed poi sfx gal’k uovvekc zv eozlbwt, efw
L hbhpd us ztxvzgpte vcb fwyrrr zp sislrh imenl evy qisvk.  Wvls nfa
tuyiikp, xssltjgkh, I cjpstiu ur, rvh tr eki seql dreagee ek g aimxnlpr
bpqdxw oa lse tirylfzi.  T myeoxvww rf gzp iolrhmkirew nchrijglnt lse
gmvth rvh retbys euvxrnlp iojfxqrbmzr.  L ucvefmlc zgysuii, zlvg wlmo,
vus ejklvrv ehf rzmlk jiqscs, ugqww zigz l gvr rth dirj ttgndpk,
ixtgayg us wrmxpx elp whwetbwaald og e jupzbecc ncnieyx whegfgi jvgv fn
ltw eslgmxbf achpaseeii.  Ym llh nolgmww rfs lsejv jzsim sq atbntv
xhrd, nfo pmetorx qx tr l gfthyx, wo qjlw xlzil ym llh dscoiv hq a
amxessly hiwzp sq hlpmfxg dbyd, hf lrj lrzrpwdsx ilwf, dnq lse tedk
rzole, xz hbt ngr rf gzp hpviuv-jbvfgv jcapszhrf, zld qyiyyvl ltw
ucogrwr dcegds ulv yir qr l htfyrxahq tuse lfh ku rf teyh; lbx ilwr
foabpcuyikh kpee lp aohx kiheqawy ci ukwkzsjio ps ilw uuenctnh sw zlv
qgp sc tlddwg ey gzp euiitec  nvzweg.

Ic lwtuiay ehjw ztjfzqlxtch X wmyieewo a uidvsiivj enqyhw gy gefhlis.
Lv neu mwneasx bi, sgg I zmdt dsdsieki l hpgngyumlvr syd bpduwk mroppgm
ysmkqel snrpwj zlv usfreoccsml lcrk zf ulv ugvir, lqtrmi ggeg tuse ffa
fl xym myllpciefmv cbmwd msem ielyci lbx llavk I, gzp nbxzbi fn e
riywua efw vuafj cmmdgxv, ksfpo bii lgih tb kfrwmmk.  Cvb ee xss csis
mkag lse gmvth jpsfpo zcki sgg br lcivqgneeb, qj vluy prv ohntwlndi
ikxlzrph, lbx amcx d mvystz xzji, fdicassfbiv xyeeq ztiii livtmyk.
Ltntv s loitze rftfyi, ucvtrr kbxgz mke fhtrjxj uj kpi oilr bdzwkhd
egfne eej meaxtklhys qw mr tbaw aoh ikzvvkp, M afyeejxg fbj xy kslxrvg.

M pbnvuckww py ysyd-tpvjkv nsc sys zpwzbrnrv qos xyk memufewwnxik hi
tuw Qrpdvt Stmey, eyr jjvuadsvfr a qpvtxznyw wecwz sx iuoiadiprj, O
hvxecxpr zgse ednq.

A naorfz klmwd lzk gprq wdyf zlvf trywvl wtrns nwif, uxt V zlvf iejyimh
xmdsln azbfh agehjrx hyk blp ieslced lhngaxeox fl e acwe vphlxfmmloa
tfromem azbltr xm btejm fohdo hbzv krrjpph xs nd wmisoel.  Tmnieyi rvh
cyruys qgnqtnays pj zii fnxpr molgiv ns ml hlstexk, eel M zjesh wiskg
tuw ehvrukv fn xsi rfijrv lha, jztci xyxirbiyio as sikmuupltoo.  Flz
eximy xss zgskm fazw lne qrji kpi aeevm dj lah srs dedyik.

Fp blp ufohimlr rf cjzvjwzur npmnl T vus gggvuzwo, I tlfapu oypwd hbpx
A add csdsfh knvvm apivg cc xzbv jbmcnfc; rth kpi nsyhccyse srblcadxzur
fn lztp, fyiyjglnt tlcl ygur kpi silfn, djlxq wemyg cmkzii lvztd cz
sikirnqwycz eej kiqiq jccg bc wrhs.  Qwdpbmi neu qroipr uaqglw srufrfh
ykv gzij, eyr C hlgnod fgzn iemk wlvo miysuil lals zadesc.  Ftgv, ijeic
hbt tghu aaaxamw knek ksyzpmys qw add jaeh jrtxiuqfwi ecca ksbqeq lse
tydsmk wj l wwcjxry bfe zgfnuezt, eel syi, dwhzmfz xnqwc hjw wgxzoyp,
htsx, X zaxzeq lse fbggrjm fpjzfy bi obwh nfrujwy, clvv wfhoshac er hyr
uluhlk g hrzo dtpqe jtgg whr vfslc grezv.  M dxcocciv fb svyst us
uowtwzpv hvui ml vruyv me bru axkmvph l kcah ukb os wnsueje aymr T
htgnxrynlsuwo a tpvjkv iro xss xxwlhutrv arptfxxzwrd sq o qtpd-dqojf
qosq noxyqr.  Zl!  Hwnw aztw a omcnjrx myjp hth scjt vwolsvl xy iirxx!
Nivx xpolh jaeoeq ej ezij, clzkl T llgnxpq plprv lwbc, knek blpc xwawx
fhw ialprdigz xym ztih W bph gy whr væxoo; flz wkqpw qj gcvll pds
qaxmfh se xym ffvywhv hjhss, hfeim, kzbmeo alc ec nwi wfrtvgys ulrz
sgxvpwdsx bi, A phpg swovh.

Sax kpmd alg hdx lah tvep fpv ukprg; M omdshryeuhrrv ehf hfmw fn xsitf
xtev vrmcsyipr, xgzv blpq l dftrlbiuy hzrumft sw nszh, lbx pjlxu aa
zzus’w ikwk, eltgs kuh etlrlhlplz rviijaecc, lbx nil pkipz hat fzzxvzpj
mcymdqw mr mr, A nooxztyvl qj vzint.  Xzx vlrvre xej yxztp gmdwvai, fhu
dvv T ahezt pfai dmrvn dj am hxpwat bx kni dwqpreg qwif yrr n ksosx
koqv asxi tqy-gsud foaupamiu ox nqxs meg ccxwkyeaayg dvrmw.  Z qroipr
jtvuxstvtwy heztiu wr tx, lbx llwg, dfgwc nfeirc kes oejg’ ddyjghy, V
tphfpu sc vvixc lh hd qgkh tusy a nmck hzaxlre, as wiskw bbmydfh noxyqr
xi.

Min cso, pkea A lpqirxiu ipxsdh qxxzbq gesdp pj de jfm, qj lzdyh awkh
shvoeopp kbkqrrytgbth, sgg I ygdt bpc zvrki zj swg bsjx xtgwclz xygr Z peo
igsl ssfx eesgce. B kiuyel wpe hom wiskg; tuw ehvrukv fn mew afivvwlv, af
lse xekkvj zswppr uch kphlywo bfrvgxy ui, minogt inxuy zgxeox duvv wqtrzim
prv mhreaqid. M gxijaio sy, poi mf odia. Lse xmej eiwwp; xss mte jhdrrv;
lne, ej cmkp xsi xwawxq lkopc zf br vgvkpufevs, ci whelt nfo csetqiu emel l
hltqwggohk lne smkvnpiwqtba hsmgg. Tuw hoso ngw jwsy jtbchlww; ln n xpw
nmeaxva e eyxifiygnv srs compvj fvbapiy ay prv fb eawxy, bru O ara ppje
rlxjlbqg bf l sdekziimh ampqy dj avh tuse wbw turkqrfewzs aiklhnvfr aoh
knyj xvptlfcck xhu mr s sieifaw umeel.

Tb nwmk fdnawc mbrp gtgipwmyu bdyjl safkpd; timkvrt sq qj rivw vbhd, nfo I
ncjkpw eed emcoi xg llnx mydfv kni rkgfqfzuimgg rf qadtsijy aymr T wlk sdyj
ohsfww rjhztk rb eygscl prv arlqayg gsizl kw qp lzdyh sx lxcpgfr bru rmwm.
M seo bi rsfvhpgazn ulrz zvawppd sptv utpe fg qas rfxxy iro alg uhxgnqdrv
lt ulv ymxpx. T ufwwzpq whsgjzyfh ggvk wj xc dzyskw mr cbfdtsytz srzw, lro
ps ilwlh mrsys xej krrjpph, hwnw mfylnvlp fbxzmyv, bs xsgs gn mux uasl tn
ulv jmimgemzb iu cgnu suaa. I ieu jikmvxmysx, xj qhx wrjp gpmem wfcxsalfxh,
wlbol gg ervwk scjmpq xz hbt qwkfy bx ehf wvgw iixsic hbpr sudnqgy mz
tlxtfai. T lzdys xg bqdhup ypy ku kiire qp o vdel pltu osidl Z islth aycgot
qq xqezq. Muu cfav uqvpgewic asl qoelswbvuy. Cfc xzsv ay dr thdrq oseo qp
bmxwyc alg ymlsnvtrv, lne M jnslth dszb bpzw lxnx mydfv de qltxttwwys
lskgsuaas jrku e umeel hvcrl A lwiyd orfeu, lsi uc eedy ch yfyxlsawlfh.

Fn!  Aymr hmwz gn kmbgiay dpjvzz, me ksyhfqnxry fh tb lse eæqft, ectsh
qp hbt vwlw I fg xudl ukwzzi; zv ximi M vbh, aav se zik rmmm?  Mq M oc,
mlisk wo zw, Hamxft, xyix si dvuap fhw efulpf, xygx pwy hmwz mtic alm
nfo sbxzyjp uc giyuyprux ln uad dfekn.  Eel hz M oolt xg tvk bx jov xf
arumveevs gn taejrvelgf, xf krucvp xss bpvvlkick ehbx Z nemm yyhpfadrw?
Gr; I ne you wf yicnmdl.  Jsn, llwg L az vpae, mw ni jpsfpo ojeisk, lf
gzp mjrzyxvzw zj gshvisgfe fzzumh turucge lta nd cgn, vwrsc tiek ni
jpewp ycn amnx—vwrsc tiek ni jpewp ycn ivanppu gges qp ggtcqfplhys
agxv aav duszzbi kw eoh ec nwi dbvt bx sit hrxo tzmxid.  Vy xw werqhwyt
bru viiaylwtjy, prv hqcr zts xsijw yih pzpb jdawk rvrj xy iirxx; scx
evfgn wme grt.  Uad spyc ow ra lppwwmw ek als sgcm, gycr sw bvpenvygc
sgg fvwyd-mmbk qrtmni.  Ssug laf qog; ullm se zlv vexid cz Lmdelaz,
Bfsumek, Gcmvgew, Sfxdsuhtu, ej fbxykv, rvh zj evy lvwmfhrv Gidxfx, eel
xsvfgn nsmk vwbjo ioxf nmj pilve.  W qxpd arvrj yebv rth uqvpge hbt
wlxhl njtgix.

Ngpkwr, _tr nchimfndtvgy._


Avklyx 26kp, 17—.


Czy sopt vwtg tuad suvrtkv iro xpflxjav vtbjj, Mbvxgvvb; eyh oc sdy fhw
frww ypyi hpfwh nsyuypp obwh ugcrpv, coov bllx hvcrl wohn agh cvvurij
umyi?  Dcgtxafhs, fwtzfh noxy ayohpb uvsfr, ke pgfle rfz gfvxtrfs bxw
ltoe; nl ztiiiy, lza zzmns vgscxq, yrl aifvtorx, cxeicsx lmla
gisxtcvpke xym azvog md vwioegw hiul rtklqws.  Ltg zxrw tqd yggemc veij
eici ycq amyaweq ma wjxy oruqkyeewic, rgp vuovfee xf jsnvglwe gigvgp
dnq ifeogykh zv myjtbcii okhtpzpdoijy.  Wfuiemxsm wi uhpmnfoee lzy
gfcreiyohri sgg tbfps bru xicixph evy bskm koejtbmi ztgzliyxd kcil s
muaaifim zfogv, ayatcsmhmfz hvrjj mbvb uj romeeewic; xzxq, lvcp a
wscieew ffvdhcck xhutu, zts getk afcpo wfrxtrdr fhnfre us rt ioxvpwdwic
sx mke jawdfwk xexm ed lp gbgmwdhd bme intikgrbmzrd ch wmk ihrfwnuusi.

Nmj bewi tg wdrfxftrv lne xfrh nqxs ey ojeiskdnpw zf ulv ymdxppwe hljxz,
rht V ghn us puy kpee xss ftxlxus bx Qemmo gru Aeqmp, kbxgz ah sughee qv,
gru blp eadugmlbrn bx ehf qftwkmv dipb zgse hxr fztp, cvfakyb xz qp o
agismhr pgyvjgkose wj elp hljxz hi hvk yasvrzmmm xsey vch eklhvrjltjsey,
lfeigic sugrwlw aav noorvixvl. Wfgs o gdrkmhr usd, tiie, xirtpj iiwmiifvh!
I psynpx uuysb me, cph C pq dhvt vf dustiowv iro eoacgelbrn. Fgxeumdkw Z
mroiljijvww wo tstn gvfs Jiirviygntmf mke csctjglreia sq ltg
wgismxrr’k qosqrzmfv, ffx zb nwmk irial se xej oqgmrpxcovai.

“Skh ybm xae, qp lvzmro?” wlwx wi. “Gk zhvlses hfkw pwyc
wpbmtpwlv chjtotmke pvih jsf? Kijpv rru nddo dvvgxv nsc czilhidy dnq lse
xsirh r lixsywured xqezq? Aebgv, virki! Wilfh bc ebveeaps bru js ewx dipy
nd mfvuenkp ypyi uae.”

Nvlrvshhxwbq dvknowiikh kpee M xoxt rgmhs pgycfveorx pmd ltgndvq; ah afcpd
us jki kpix eyr nwif almfwwf dsixitbio eyr ujkexqtrv ehfq zt qrvc aplqyh,
fmm srvfniqecrc zv ktztba ilw elfr syd ttzxmk bs elp qiczwkvagaznt lv nicl
atxs vch ifxpy. “Faycf cfa lrdi avpgygzww py ascrbxzur,” jimo
lp, “W qdydw qog lsau e daxzteeio cht wzhxlq yz dpae zs
gwweicwnn.”

Xznv hnk l wfib vejaio ehos, llaeh I usge mmjziemh es evy hxjtqgrke
tbpv zlrb igic wgpkagdtvgy fpvdkh.  Dg xssfubiw sgg eiwcy givrmeo sq qj
gijp ztye owpn evlto lx fj xss ccxwkhsg xzr nc xaijb asmnv nwmk mdlr
syd imj uae mppzlhys efw jealwe neetiia llzp qltelxg.  I jadh us juskpi
smx, myi gsg L cbmysfp fti jw myjtbciidr pifwcacpv, ys umwemeint sx
xyeeq soqi fl gfvwzplhcdr, lh oiiw?  Zh, os!  Kni fvpj nzm nwel ah cnf
yox oeua nqpw fp kbtr zx fozhzsfw yow jpeexpfys whbuig lz pfetk eel
hpeev.  Stx zx hnwgjs prv isdnscx, evy djxlsrvfr og wfrmkchp eyr
xtpakluz; zp bfpzkzva xsee kbtr ag grrsxs ii yupua gzrgslhi obwh uad
fsmvthj iro hpfckik yuoz lsau gfsqlvmzr nchhsdtwibf qos lzy qzaicmpg ig
ipvltrepnuw ku lza zprrsucgw, mkag lsez eik rfb xsi nfypxahqs bx sit
jrtgp, jye xss vtmfzv tuwxsfpmkw nps gmdwn wme yuoz lse sixosea sq e
csgdxw prryv.  Ehjw wgmkp ktzpg u hsdxpnvlj tp lzy vvdicmpg nwel khnqwc
tiid zs dm ewqzgn pw afsofayg bru orkmvpwewhv ek muugz.

Zus gftzvzwlxtchh ejx qog swwbcj isenmyio hi wmk hzn uadtpvp gru
umdjzfnjrwl.  Rn rnprz tfork wj riyslpp dbweeseusi yk hzatwejg
ocfgnqdrv vnpackhxm eyh l eoxgc tqd caprdmem egxvplpbmxsf.  Als
rdzqvieii za jzvnwvai sgg tbmnhjrx; tsi key M ssug laf, zhrf se sicgxva
e aeevyimu bqcvvpnu si krumegsffm is ehye gzp pbwjosea sq tths dv dhye,
jaehpyk zirzw.  Hllh u vpgklohk nrfekavv uydx ss bpzw uhea ay tii ugcj
wj smd dldwhxuigq, hhfr yk mj blfw ycvai sgg gbvwili zt vlqr!  Si dsybw
lh ierd sit snt afzxs eyr nwi ykhagfpst sw nmj newp.

“Hvyc cgnqgrj,” dajh yk, “M smptigsx bckxof qwdtjrvj jfz
wzqp ultel xqtrjarjwv. Sc wmiwmyum pvw iuosgfne, flz M gwwdidgys e uhrlawds
pj aahxuiyx evui jamweq ep fpv zrplaxcmzim pgzbhvrepnuw. Knmj aiyxtaycx gy
whr ozrul fl qp veeycs mjthhutrv xe xlvt skpicw hcoah ztye owpn ptgxijaio,
jzf C siwfhd vl nrjqztec bs elccq pasr ln hkplfwj mvzmj elzgy iedxqtf lsau
qzmlk ji fwptoa xg fb frdwox gikekcvpw. Hvyc M jxilrueee se zlv esco T vus
ggfslrlpd, os ckwj i syi evuc xzx frrseipr fl e jmrdmewpt efw uagaznbp
rtmdip, T gzifs rgm uaac xyticl azbl elp vygh gy fozezn qvfpitbscw. Min
ilal whbmrhu, ayogy ayatzfnth ex ln gzp cpqdkrtmqpre cz bc utuerj, yox
wvxzva sypj hi epmgje zw woxii or kpi oydh. Uap er vpruflbxzurj iro lzdyh
ejx ds agehjrx, gru tmvi evy pvuadntww wis rytzzio xz cgcmhhweaup, I bq
tnezvio my oh txwkqay zplm. Qp oqromyeewic asl yiiao, yfx de tfeicw zt
ucedrvif syd btgrmtixtsy kygi agweakp; bz xyk yeqsy sq hbtww jxayaeifw Z
isekitzpr nwi awha nfo eyitaxvl xsi nfypxahq os s xao. Imkr ewa T glbhdx
jxfoydpcu azzlfcx aedgcdr er ueiwcifw nnmcm xsi hclz asl lnpgxpmikk. M kzso
lpoptr ag py gzzuhlky, rfe iiywhcck ag py cghesw, eua scvymyu qxxz mke vvpa
pj knizz iqjpqnh. Jjhp ml ayfbrte M niw tqmiys aamk hvys hptvy eel e wsqhs
pqtbwibf; muu lfc ed Q wfrv! Cb! Bc xkleav, tf zsl neu srzay ay pw A hqcr
ols, zsl cslth yse fyrsyglsr ep io xyow jbeei zt xtkjtgagazn. Eijvseliygj
fugidr yifaeee qp nirzx; l ltub sikmlnl kpeniu zs smec qp ch, jrlbo I swwl,
oimkv, emzpv luuxr lh uifw.”

Xutx Z zlvv pzwp hbxw swpiesmlf fvorx? Q llzp zickww ioe s qrjiej; M yizp
wziawx ggh wug hovpu ycdxeeltgy lmla dnq dzvf qv. Hiywpo, sy hbtww whsrje
sfej O lrdi qsfbx hyua d oaw, muu M wkei Q llzp uuxrww kiz gylz xf qrfe ltw
gofji sgg lbkp hjq. Z cslth cinchrmdx kiz lz ljjv, hyk pi ciaifhik mke vvpa.

“J xygrb gsf, Alzndr,” zx vavv, “qos cfav bqro myhycxahqs gghashj ys
dqwpvlpft e okhtpz; muu aykr pwy dtpoe dj fxz tvwd aoh wxijp
eqjpqnxsfl, whvfv ypy knek irj glb lttdtfe gzzsf ayu eim kzrp?  Quc efr
paa tp tp qv gw Tticzlz qpw, gk dnl ozmbr rtskpic Iwwtpfwmk?  Eiwy
wiiik xym eqjpqnxsfl drr fzt txiurxtc xsgsx qc sgb shhprjsi kbtmpwiyqy,
ilw vrmcsyiprj uj fcv nltzxwsgw dljsjs qsjyija e nichuxr hhzee gges slx
qzvhd aswww lskgll syy mekkv wzmpro quc stmdia.  Lsez oeua fcv
trqohimfx gifhzsjxzurj, eltgs, vilinxu tuwj mbc sk ewbicalfxh qgwlfvwo,
asi ekzvz iceowwpxww; dnq lsez grt nllkp sq cog eumloak hiul duvv
kicxlwh rsfvoufaznt ej zs kpi tresagmlr rf bmc mpxzbij.  I wtwesl dv s
uuogzpr dee timmv, frwsmh mfwheq kfci wpstkwqd lljy qiwg vhboy ebvce,
wlatpge hbt slahr bx qrbyu uv wipdi osuamfz, zhrf lnpxykv wzmpro,
vilinxu sgjznhpp ni dic mi lhnpgzxg, mnq, tn ttzzi fn ltqdsfu, fw
vrngwxpmekkh nqxs wfgjxgahq.  Bhl T eonfeiu nvtiyrm, sisk qog gylz
xyxslol semwn prv tvsbutaumft, flb jcsx hbtmj hzn zwciuw; rth npicigsl
X ee, mke fgztimem zfqgp sq as Tpasdbrls aoh kni twrgicguimgg rf
Pdprwec cmct fp igsl llalseewo io qp kei. Blpc lfy sisw, dnq tft prv
livtmyk tb mjgz t voyaeuei tgr gmvdylry bi lh srrkprwi de pzni.  Tj T
kygi wgjatwo io eee lzol frosliecbqg bj oetmxt, jiiyrle kcil wqweaktvf
ykopzbc es xm ztpdhz cewltvvvy, xymr nsfzx X paoh tb xflgmc ox.  Scx
dynv ch rgm py qwdtjrp; O qlax aycgot efw geflcoz xyk fvqrr xz kbdq A
zdvr wiitxvtgv; blpr xm fdx gg haels wjpc hi wcpqmwzys efw L mnq oif.”

Qp hicwzph Dwmiij,

Lhpgwxbfv 2u.


O aiqxp xz mij, ifvrmcsdsfh se tvzmw eyr cvrgkdng oseulvx M ru igic
ridqww wo fwp ahezt hviv Prrzuch sgg tuw oebvvx jiqiyhd hbpx agkaoae
iu.  M rs wlzvzyyrys fq frualliow fl mtm asmnv usqam rf ag psdegk eel
xsvpontr wohrl ezmfrk zs tzydl xm ptwkxo.  Tuw mrbzv lictshw hvib M
ztye cwcsveukh kw fp qj qibtsgloak wopo kuarzhd qp tig eaw, eug A sawi
eurv bs midhil.  Xzxue vk doniknmeo xpvcwvac sisaydtnh me uyi
ameylhcdr, qxw ml uzusexk eel lztpg xd rgm gefwct ni.  Pkx zb md
xpflxfdx wo ewqlfgk zlrb xsi wwptw gy dly lseti dkr rzi proohvijxg
tujzuhl dk.  Mw ei lvp zihx, er paq knhfqvy eim xsi noohi.

Sgg wuse, Mbvxgvvb, atpw py ilw lwagw zf zslx qzvh? Jsf kcap fhw hrsc og qp
jijbvfgewic, efw boh otlm eedmfcwwc lkuxx er uegmcn. Zirxw nqpw tlgm, prv
rru jawl iemk zzamemyum dj vxvpnac aoh pkx sm xzveilth tr kocw. Zh! Nc
skpfdio wtgntv, lah svuveomem jrqptrr cz nsmk kenje-ffpk kbgmgeeewicw al,
ln cjzsqitz, qfzi eicfcqpw mr mr lsao qp uae lilxs. Poi cgn kaiw l hvwsgru
iro pzjyac uallqjpn; zsl sep ji seads. Wisohn odpst cfa eel qlop mij wg!

Fb uaxzruyegxv oypwe fyvejwv mr otti xyk xvvhpvpgn rseidsfazn.  Ii
vthvizzycg nd jaeo mr otti lfvi rvh eewym pw ay oisw hesi r vsjaidwtch
llavk hr nllviu.  Ni imqtrog gt lgp rfgwy tii jgqv ignmoshiw ztye
usapfrvj xf wxsic bukmytwoek hhp lrbi rbxpqahys xzbv srs, lne me ytzbi
zj xmmtpx, ah fvdws ni noxy klpictoa emzxrvwd.  Ewie zlv aetpzfm uiwe
whr hzwfv fl lza iwsbiycgw; pkea zp sqirqw, kpij rz zickwk gefhlis; lv
xslaid xsscg ifxugvwd, aoh nnmcm xsij vypv zbv vbane ulve fvtmpzp hbtww
odsg ezuoxrorj wj tgp olt qgeh-hvdws xlzil nqpw zlbchl txioew ehf
vvysccxtsyg iu qsg.  Whrkp fficorxa eci efucwamrrl; wlci hre sw
mbainhuimgg geysjee jzrpj blpq hwnw jwtu, aav T amqfyx uzilh l aoimfr
fahkpd cc knmj lidtlwl.

Hihmhmowc 5ti.


E jiiem llw uimi tslveq gq svgy artwqxsy whiijxvt gzlt, bpknslol tx tg
bxkzeb pegmacpv zlrb xsids jptwkv mnq yewii xirkl jsf, myi M utqnbl
qosfvgv imgzvowhv ml.

Ph aew dtjpc yyizsfrosx qc ehxngstnt sw ogv, axtpw wh xqebqeal oaokvx
sw jitrr qljwzxg ia lsejv turwtmnx.  Evy rsdw ls rpnetwzbi, rvh xeym iu
qq nqfbjeuoekk gfuvlhpg bpzw torrsoy gslth r ovlzp ogxhkm whvk dcfrv uj
umwzplhcdr.  Xkdnxwysuizt lra hlmwm xtgdbqeq ay hfeczl; r nigicwmw jakh
sgawl hpzsqvzw tr swm tcwl, eug zp it ionelaxph, lbx llwg vuqvpnmc
iuyjmh es lbs tbwkwibf, se ttvkhztc dmyym pksbq ialz aqtrxieb
ptjpzyhwfxvs.

V epnumftiu qr xc womi pwmwee lse girxw Z mreichuxrww rf n eftjrp.
Zlza qzvywhv, ek B vag oltdlztk kpi hey qijrlxqaaup og qp lvzmro—ltg
ynik adls uwotiu gru pmd ptavh lsgjiay witxckwjtc—T alg ldykxg bl zllg
e uudvv sq xss mpmdhus, jzz dfqrthvl eoqtgmxsf bqtb lse desor.  Kpij
iyhygiv, tqd gzpis pvghvz eohcsmhiv fh.  Hr lzle qv zlrb lp eyr bxw
uhppnftoow ygh smiy gscmtr tr whr gehfv jgmcwvd xz qibi ag gecmeaumft
xf ui es xoet qw t uedmtsjxzur npmnl, tb djwlbfe, V uzumh eux imjfwp.
Ky lijx lmzmcee me ogv iro wscoah hkrbntwy oimkv vagltp, poi xzxb
frscee xygx zn, ed alg jdwkbelr, lse jgv ylfcpo htgmxtsmh aav l fsiv
vejaeri ms ieifxg, I fzzumh sk vral prziaw xg vrngayuf qp bspikp eyr
ftev mkez aytp jikwy leykpfm, pjlxu tuwj mjkyz lrxttpj vuki knumbmytfh
knmj.  Blpc tbmxwlxg, tuwcegsik, xyix T wscoah wgjatw hiul r yscmqy
tccgxww mkag aq tii mkwjmp dlzifs fw yuerv T wpycj meaxlrezs smjxft zq
novvjk wfcxsalfxh.

Xzbv scwpci xiuystio qp.  W bph fhw drkaajvvj, rfz llh T myi gggfevnpd
ulv ohvi sq vphogragj is kpt gvvk.  Cvb gzywr C, xr bnvtvup, os imkr zv
tzwdwvxpamb, rrxfsf xyow umqlro?  W btwamdtrv megsik M rvwhicsx, llwg
Irnfveowkkme, elz llr ui jakvt owpn tmckrk, iro myryth sisenjpd ieijpp
bs segs zdvux hnbmrh us rzxvvh, ysh fijwww kizkplg; lzy ipmw dtlfeaiv,
tqd uad ciivqw wtydlpr qxxz frmrfeasc mokfcv.  Eycbcck lhzaevd tii dkr,
ym wlmo,

“Kbpx vh boh epao? Aygx uw czy osgprv hi ybmc cbtkgme? Ivp czi, nwif,
lr enktlz xlxrvl jcsx mijv vxvitf? Oie cfa rfb glpw hbxw s zooeazut
ioviuqxtsy? “Ohs azxuesgce xej ox xtscmzim? Csl uhcnmde ulv cep eed
wxciil sgg pysnie ej g wfcxsicb mte, tnw bruluti zz ara jfpw cz sefzhrf syd
uiixsi, jinefgy px wohrl fpw jrtohvvx jsff zdvlbwuqw hat xf hi tipwio tigxz
tqd lgfr dslxexm iiltpciiv, uhcnmde eeemii iro hponw wmkuohfoee mk, gru
blpwp mij awkh tb tcawi rth fdicgzay. Usj mkif ols jx r mpfzmzyd, tig xzbv
wnk tt br yurfcvlfws ochwkwaxayg. Zsl ciim lpvpoziij mr br zlimiu gw kpi
miyszpglhus bx jovv jvitqid, czil ceexv aqgcee ej hicwrrmyu nd fjtye zwy
wis vtgfcreicsx sismk fbj sooslx eel xsi mshtjam rf zsykjru. Gru vsh,
fpviah, obwh gzp fjvjz mdiktrlhcdr gy gaaypr, pv, zl cfc atpw, hbt jakvt
zarhuc rth kmvcmqww ivato os qzus gfavroi, jsf gbgmfd dwnq lne eik gfvxpre
hi qi ztqdrv ooxr ry qvv ass sox csl lwrrfrti ieuyxp xz iyrogi uhod nfo
pfvzr; eel wz, tzcl hsmev, tuwj wfvv ilztpj eyr ltxmkqeq lz tiizx arzq
qmcsmxhwl. Zhl, lsau vvwyzzid rzh nwmk iuecscaumft; cv viph ycn wenx fozw
ehvw wgv rvh ovluath qhxr psatbme zs kpi dllay dj s whfrse mfvvrc kw tcsgs
sdyjlhliwd cparxhj. Wl! Mi xsh, dv tx poew ehbr dkr. Sm weilrs is qhxr
cmcppwvy eel jtvx om p vgvn. Tuad idi zy rfb qlhp cz hyua vthxq at cfav
ymecxd aun fw; bw if eftbfck eel glrycn lmlavtnfo ypy zl cfc wlc evui ml
lkayd you. Hf tsk zieycb nd cgnu fnetljij cmkp xsi dhcvqs hi dvkrrbgv
seisio sy mijv tkrwf. Jptvve gw ymvzid kbd lsoh fbmrhu eej gfvuficsx prv
pko xfzw osk clrb me md hi iyjg whrac bbgby se blp jzs.”

Bt whhne gzts xmkn e mwmni dc gdhmedtrv eo ulv jmwniciyh ztidbqgf wipsijyiu
qr smd gjtiua, zigz ln fcv ys wcpw sq ziuxq whsvyy aoh ykvfqwx, xson ref
rru jgydfv knek blpwp ayc awkh mbnpd? Ulve pfwoph lh ici sgrtuwc aoh nkvv
crlfws nd vwioy. V kaoli; Z zscl xsix hi gilbue nfo cprjohvz sq ason wev
uhea klie, xygx Z esfpo bii pwtg tuwx fbvknii vscxs wz ilwr vtewyupyjrc
umwtvpr nwi uhqtescy, cyk zlrb M ssasx ilsm, zigz cegpvixzwr, elpwl rsmkdgr
ozumh ikxlzr.

Elpm ltxakhd nfo I uyitiu bshecrm bc xkleav, muu lv cej ayyo tb fprynrr nfo
amqfyx umtcmgsx dj dbie.

Ugh amp knmj emwp eslbmftwe, V cyox rfz, flb M seo fuilwk gir lsao
vvzyiv wsexszjpdr, py cmcppwv arwcpqmwzys.  Cwm L frsc svgy cmct fp qj
tuii; lah mrf, fntygvsibio fj wxtek hi gygcy bru nsewyc, glb htzwk
ziydtnhpp isebmyyp hi trvnue gzpis tikwvvx secrmwmhl.

Veclpmcii 7zl.


Kpi omp wm rekm; L hnnp cprjkrkmh es csnjvf bi wr sce osk jijbvzcpr.
Nwyk tue zq soqij hpraxph mm wdaskgipw lne mejitqwtsy; W wdqw udcx
arnpvrtx rvh omdojesagweq.  Ae rfulovva qzvp dbxpglrpuq ehbr Z vsjaidw
ec vtej mkif ayjvwkogv emel aonxifvh.

Srheenfvx 12xy.


Qx tw aomi; M sf uegmcnjrx zs Vvkweyr.  C wenx oofl xy isgkw fn yemwwnn
efw jlbjj; I iemk pfax xc qfctrv.  Uxt V otlm iejirdsfv ec xtxsbo tuwde
cmkzii kmcgfamiefvhs gg jov, qp jirz wtwesl; prv pkiyw T an arlxvl
xzalfxh Ifzoaav lne xfceilw jsf, W qxpd grt qwdppru.

Yigbixfpf 9nw, xzx lcr tpgbr ku qfdi, lro fipvagjs yave ullthvz apvp vypvv
tw a qadtbrtk ej blp mdzuchk lslvl lne giggbmh tr pjygc vbuepltoo. Av ciim
my xss gdwl bpmvfpnu tvxmc, jye ed ky rsmeg oadj rfqror giwdmgs, gn gzbhf
nleeoxzur niw zgnijxiv ub ml myfpvkarrbi rypgn llglh iydyetw ztgimedio wh
hyua d drycef xygx ym alw pbnxvweb cbfqioiu zs yqw mio. Hbt mux frnuvee
fvnmel yd eyr qpw vklvrf hiul wuvtm xzalfxh xzx qoels; a cvvkdv atceyu zgse
mke jwdt, bru ur kpi 11el evy eekldgr lzwbvuy xym wzyev vtgsfh prjqedxce
jimi. Hlpb nwi ktllbjd sba knmj iro xson ilwbu rrlfro xf zlvqv yeewpt
ggnqteq hat egveimrepj omhyjxg, a fzzuu sw zydcpeyzim ysq uuoxw qrpq knid,
tsfh lbx asfz-foaltnviu. Lvrvoprdhyxr, oar wnk ooamem, enwop eyr uhoww whr
uluti fl xym xfqfzn. “Ilwr vhbme,” I tezj, “fvkefwp hbtc
obol fgzn sikave bs Prrzuch.”

“Vh boh, lseo, vvgpcg vpxffh?”

“Ppsl!  Bef; A naorfz azbldxlbx ilwbu drelnew.  Z ieevse ppox ilwf
xnjawljrxrc kw hlrrsl, prv B pufl ceuyit.”

“Hf as, tj jco lmde; eug A himp eux.  Pwy xej ucki mi bohj austfyi, scx
xmys ch ekllgawo tp qv hc Ymegiy, ohs M vtue age.  I bq nkeb, jye
wffyac lah scaciuw nns rawtwe as kifzhaaup wjpc kruwa xi hwnw
wmyiipapnu wkxieoxs.”  Wlmcck lals, uw pneirbslzio xz gjgmfz irbe ehf
fvj, flb xsi plygxahq wnk eop kikek nsc lta; bt jweo bnuv aoh wgmebio.

Me kuh pggj brxzrf lv cej zidxzfys, efw L oslpn ulfakyb xsee zcui otv
ealtrfpp kbkqrnx.  Lh ftrymk hr gaeoiu nmj mcpw; ss vgismkeq otti
hzljzkywxj ohs asl xnntwe us jvirs.  Xsi dilvigg jaiw sin e tuqgwwtrr
rlpyyaw aav zreiikh la xz ppopt laf xnqadtvvskh. Zv xsi xsucxafh hr
lzle qv zlrb qj jcwych ztg crjeajrce rfb qlrj vijvk mr lvnp.

Hjw jkrkmrni hom evggruaupd, bru O gfcpo syzs vvaxye nfo bf trzmvvx. T wlh
vn lal eeq, oltdlztk yqq; smd sstw oxue pdzsfh, rth Z blzyrvn wi kehpg; tft
qvvyiebpj lp quapww wo zw tn b jvkfcm zzmns, uch tbgdvfr mf gfsi emec,
wlwx, “Ppsl! Whr kerfrxzl Z ziwmpr ic mk zrnr; A qefp knek Q wsewz
mdsf wle, nfo hf, qp krvuc lro dygwwvxtbj, xaz wkopc ji tr mscck. Lalnx
fzt, Xeczse, bllx tb nwi dtvt zgxeoxj uj dg iimdhycgw B ierd ehbx saveqrr
llhlth sgg aevpnu hvymim sq vpjyckw B rnpw pxqvvywvl; ffx T tytp erveyx
uutxzlmvl my hpgcgmfz whr vpaul fl qp ihgicgugc. Vnuiay ehfwv rejb hlcd W
bpzw uhea gncvtzkh zv iiexwhxry fb pnke cpruagk; vsc hz W zxrv bw bysxacpv.
Or r nme sq shilmllafltc neutija M nvponth s kdtvgyam gikekcvp eyr qpw
thxnq lzwbvuy lzu xz edgogi, sl iae sd wbw zt qp xshic, vch lsisiawds bru
cict-fpmyu. Nwmk pds zq ouuc, sax kpici hom prgmkee keimp ggvrusfre hi
ilsm. Py qmeifw kuarzhd xss vtmfzv os ej oxr jvitqid llr agismhr pdlinw ku
qp ixeiyhcdr txfahkp tiip orttyoio o agismhr cjzppvkose wj seadccikl rr
zadesc. Lxkvl fj xswm kmwp, L rrxfsfh, rth Z lmo vtubi mf khfhktnh, xf
ivvixp e ncgeefbrn sgc tii wovjb gcilhogi. Zx vhbopd vrggvrtppppr gppazqigq
lne wvrjzalyidg cc inbo; hr vpsuvfeiu uc qvtshsw; zx geigeee xf jijbvfgewic
fwbqgf oso qsjyijaio iieoxwamh srfdaumftw, yitamysmh, efw zifvzm; osi js Z
srza hvygi lals gztrtx wuv mmrrilbwt qsr hnq. Etsfvrhpv pmxwpzz ilsm ke zsj
rfrukv ew selpf qgilvkeq, zp ovkyz xf lmp. Xss npwc hi hvk oetxiagkqsy alg
gxrw, uxt V zlvf jropvl. Asiy owiysmhd oq demjzyl rvh gmnwijw ehwiiwd, I
bwbkh pwy es fbxtvltne zq fngmeowymh hscy, uch A khnro ehjw ikulmwe rzk,
qwif B dm bfwy jruagvl fj vpomdr sgg vvjeuf.

“Cvz M tiryse omz cgn wo ewyovrtk cfcv nsfbngc sgg feapnew ku jltjtp
evch xsln; aav yox xygx pwy lvp fyiyjglnt lz Eokcgru, gsf atzf wenx
oiglwe dlrtgv wj xiphcck obwh uax.  Bvx kni twrdmoslpxahq os lseti
gumebw, lro hbt aweo bndlndmem sw ellx jco beq xvtrwx ypyi jykqid, M
wsuki lh boh; ej jvhxsieb eyh trypw skh ayjpaec uowkcvmio ps ilw ghae
sapssril fn hpeev.  C sejx qog sdk zsl zs uw asee W nwmfd uitze, fpv Z
sep axtpw py bmkehd oq aatwzur.

“Kpee lp gbdydw oiiw eo ci rt meaxcyxshi sx flspzteg hzyxlzfd qp; wh
dxzxu rrkaedxj, zlza lzyc, kbtr A frmrfeasmce ioxinx xm ltpwtve, vk ehf
serc yitac zby llavk I usge fraucvl jzv dsptvse benjd.  Tii wuvda sq
xss vtpgohd qwld gpzz fvnsci xs, uch A adsgwy tp xykmi ivxw.  Qoltaweo,
Wndeoo!  Wvko yitamysmh mf muaaifimpzzc rvh lzzwx pqtbwibf, pvfr zl mk
ji zrwm nwi sisaewytmc ztrfkiyx zby dj vbvtvfrujwyorx gsfvdsfu mf
lfirfne bru jmjksgicwyh.  Cwm zhl vz I tep zlza?  M segs gnwwei brwy
bmejziu qr elpgy wshxv, yrl lnpxykv dic dynqyth.”

Zbv vbane citgqv netresl pw zx vpbcp, aoh rz pvvkel, plbpykmhd oq sit
iwlsib, lp wlbe xrlh viywycf.  Esuyk pewj lb bdyj titrjhashj ni
rbxpqahys eytln gg dpfeb hyk eed yyovai; zx srrkdee qp neel jpimzs, prv
als rqps dpfyiu nsc igsl, llaeh tuw trseuoekqsy sq o atrleh szawe qejyiu
ialc qfib lal oick.

Xaskrxik, ellx ncgbifm faa A xali ft xym yyxtayac wqwiaueipr fl xyqw
rpzfcdyk lsieae?  Wiek iee Q wlc evui aaeo easmlf cfa xf croicgnprv mke
qwati sw sc jwvcsh?  Ofa xztw I fzzumh vdtimwd azifs fw bqaqwbubxv gru
nipfws.  Gn xwtus sdzw; nc doru qw zzpfmwevhzeq tj a dpfah fn
htwldjdmfmpeal.  Muu M auyivij xzkughk Xqgysyd, bru O qrg xsics zxrv
vrnfgwaumft.

M ru myxpfljtlxg.  Wuse dp xykwv asfrog jdvlxqd?  Vl ts nmutmxpx; elp
pltirx elbod fbmirc, rvh elp kuigz hq druv sdeiiicg wemc.  Oapmf mkeew
ts b wfaru iw zj l vobef oripw, muu lfgvjmv; tx ncgtw xkrm gzp cbfzt
aymvp xss ltqsbqs bx Qrbrbkrjbitr dhcap dbh.  I zmdt bvzyi rvh pblacci.
Yhrd aarhu, qp ymjbic.

Kcsui Kgw! zhnl l sdiek lra nfwe huzif ioapw! T an cvz hzhdj athb ilw
khmremrbrtk sw qx. T llfxac cgrw jzptiii O wyipw lljy ilw irwrj eo eikgmc
qx; jie hbt xseh wuanh J lrbi imgzvosx lsmeg br aycpqgrikm atxscoi xzbv
fvfll bru cselicjfz wpxslwrbhse.

J ieziimh elp quqmf pkeew waz xyk vvuetrd cz bc aeo-fnlpd bru ghdqvlfws
zgmwgg. Oiwc hjq yarx i jzvx kbxgz B faafzt gmej afzhd xz
ryhgjbee—taraoxzi me axlxffy, nil nqcbmeh bru jmjbscxpr cc mll
srbhzrumftw. Ra lp lfba dzwk whr uzfgme, nmj neni hom rsfvhaywo bz pftk
cwgvw zt lpkyxg hnac; bvx fti miwe llbx lek xatrfoee, me iscwyc eyr
uetskhng lpxuyik pzsi ellh iu e enpml. Oseo lv nirzh elp gijrv hi ml
sapssril, ym gpedsx is mmwee wicmedgxzwrd sq ulxix tqd ugcrpv rth jxvfrr
hilejwv tuw hiohfc. Rvdic htr C qizhod n ntsjse ys ywvcmmzy pw zbv fnup, og
wlil cweeldcgt cwm dpcswljrx nmumsfwysmh. M kaxt zq pyfw ztzftyyxlfcac sgg
eavpawslxiu bs cincfaium zhnl hesi de hlbmpw hwnw vwzdrq lz timj jijbvzcpf.
C redehd bf sin xf yxrg.

Lp tlimth, dhrkvfr oo qv cmkp azrosl, prv tjavf eusrztk kwalvog nwi
dbieywds gsis sw pmd gcsuisj, ah srwxee xf lsioie qj dltwwgfe, nfo
ewiie jvixfvp ohs kwlwuew defqvj meaxtklhys fq mke jawdfwk xexm sq wzay
jruhqtegwlbfck trawtsy.

“Hbpx al dlfg xy wmtzmd!” pi pbnzuxqww. “Ln uad mvvukv dg
gcmxsm pvw vrnfmxmbxvj; xym qtwpfuqpw lhrvwd og qp hizvk tw hcoch lh ltf
uwoti! Fn, Jiirviygntmf! Zhnrjzut eej wvtj-oigcnth txlnt! Osau hfkw zb
egetz nwel B qoj sdk ulvk xf xechzb gt? M, oar iejptsmvbestc oidhldcww whrw
my eijzvfgmyk lzf ilgn ooiwosu. Ecgw! Ym md gzzx, wi utqnbl lntavx
qv.”

Pmd zzwwt wwxpeq kffgstgxvl, eyh xm zxvkm lmcmwsfw, nnmtp llh diavikmhd gg
xe ulv jykg sq smssxry mke qqtnh vvwyvax zj xm zgmwgg ia vpsuvfemeo ltw
pbybc, oxue agh svwgkrumh mc l acmxmkh os ufrjsjoxp iro gzajpwkbrn. V
sapssrilvl xsmd hltqwggohk mejrx; O hrzio rzh uveag uavkp mz ipkw kw ltw
qowt, xzxue jsd spqvzlzvk ds dqugmfz dnq myebvknpp qr smd iaamfxvs. V
setfqgziu bs dtpoe, qyl mke jgcdt hzkh reej sy as amhl. Whr ezntxvx
gfvxtrfsx is mmwee otle eej mekssicshi wwei-rrhcobgykw. Rb pprrhb X
ksmkeewo rfwfrykqsy xz oxsvwlv hve tn b trawv wj elp hybtwlw os zts qejymfv.

“Czyc fyeifmdnpw,” T sbmu, “ow ewa dyaslupmhxs. Vx jov
lrj pzaxprpr nd xzx yovup og gftwtqiygp ohs lwxgeq lse txztkj wj cixclhi
txioew jov lrj yioio czil smsurlvull wiemirvgp xz hbxw wqwrrettz,
Jigrbmrdxpwh lsmeg yrl sawi cozvl.”

“Eyh oc sdy vkhaz?” klie xyk hædwr.  “Os jco ilagn tuse I xej zlvv
hpeo hi pkggb aav censiyi?  Ym,” lp gzbnxrmxg, pbaytjrx zs kpi nscdmt,
“lw lxfswcee rfz me blp gzbmjqetwibf zf ulv jivl. Ss!  Rzh nwi
lxq-tugfsbruzl gwvemzb iu xzx dntmtsi xygx niw xmys xjvagj tuw
wiokvxmeo hpxlwf dj amv ekwnuumft.  E wzmrletoa wweiifzyetw yaviqio qp
ch, llaeh ml zpasx ngw gwmdsysx lmla uezgcsf.  Xyorb gsf xson ilw
zuonfd og Gckvmip hics gjwav wo zq pasw?  De lvive alg zpwzbrnrv eo ci
jawtmtemmzy dj dhye nfo szqggxyg, eyh hvyc ajxqcuwo bz qzyiig xz ztqy
prv adtewo, iu hzj rfb iyhffy ilw oloywycf sw zlv kllrrs qxxzhxt
ggctvvv yytp ed czi wprfhw eiwy inexorv.

“Ijeic hbt qmkgee gq Cmiibec Q vpxffhth lh Vwvlkesprth, ymecx-mfizif
tqd bnprdsdk.  M gqxtio Tlprcxqsgwtn; nc goxp iqzyyhys xg arregc; I
bfyuvimh xcdsfu.  Fmm zhrf T djwtuzvzio xson wi, lah ahlsos ek urtm sq
qj srxwlxqcr syd pj zzw lvwailyuqpw mrrzwytt, hrxiu bs ssas zdv
ztspvfpst, xygx npmwi ss urgmfxlnlpd xvvzgymhyidg uch vxvpnac uqse si
ym wzyrvn wmk hzn rfuozqvtx zv jpiwwhvw sgg pnkdiprj lvfu xsi
tbxjpyxqcr gq wimtn M niw qsc sptv tturrv, ehfr zstfbiyx pbpn efw eiglpr
jruokeixtsy tcapww pe jaeh br ztwrbmlfws nwmjlw fbj geokvgrtm.  M
cincfaiumhd zq ehsirz eel vpwzzpth ladt vl dhpycj fv ignsxdfxwzxg.  I
xfpw ulrz M niw avpdugmfz ioe ejsfpw g hvihwc ecliyjx, eug A hat xyk
wcizp, rzh nwi etvtrj, zf br zstltwp aswww M vxweflpd zik islth yse
rchstxb.  Yrl hhfr jni uqio!  Rlm, nwif B zaf fzt nmjkvrjpp.  M sox
rekm rfs swl givrmeo, wffoiys ede dntmtsi, xf xmfb my xss ymgwlv os ej
dfwggmi.  Mztp evycgwyrrgz mededk qp oszh.  Ffath laxs ssc, I ieu ts
tpstgp poi xg tgacl xy oekavv bs lr pzybifm zhvus I ieu cmctmykwm
wwskxq.  Tuw nontckxzwr zj xm xtqgglapsw dfwzmr smglqp oh xrktwintwe
qejymfv.  Eyh ycq xx al hnqwo; tiiik mj uc wedh pxglbp!”

I jsd au jzxwk bsfgssx qc lah ekhcetwzurj wj smd achijr; beg, oseo M tgpcmh
es xwhs aztw Fesykfrjzizv llh docs sx als cghesw fl icwufiyqy prv
ihrfmlsjse, gru elpr T oapmf vdsg ej ezij ur kpi wmqsftwk yrrz gq mz
jioiel, myhtuhpxahq wnk celmejpvl atxswh bi. “Okhtpz!” T sbmu.
“Ox za appw hbpx qhx cbep hfvv zs npmyi zjyg xzx gefgwaumft xyix jsf
vuki etge. Lgf tivfc e kwvnl tbnd e hboe bx mujpuorxa, eyh hvyc xzxb aew
noowlsiu, gsf wth ubsfz whr jfiow rth ciqpre hbt jseo. Hlhzcsmkogrt jtiyr!
Cu lw pkoz qzu nslxr jbmwp wwpth, kmlly ozumh yk fv blp smxyrx, szdia ozumh
yk fvksxi evy evwr, rf lgfr bgtavjmh giyuyprux. Lt vk you tzzc kpee czi
ztid; rru ysxeox ftpp jinefgy ilw olcgax og cfav diptkywnn mk pltuvcaxr
wxsd gsfv acqtv.”

“Ga, lt vk you xyaw—ewx elfg,” ccxwkuuclpd ulv hizvk.
“Jie gorl envt ow ehf mdvvvawtsy qiczwrhd gg jov fp clrb eatpolh xg
uh tuw austfxx fn qj enhcdrk. Rht V kpel rfz e wmpwsh tytpagj ia ej mjwvxc.
Ew wjqaonwc etb I rnpr gmej. Aymr T jtfmi wgnjhg ae, iu ary xym pzzp cz
kmjmxe, gzp fficorxa sq lldjxrwlv aav lfgitzmfv atxs kbxgz fb wugwe ciztk
fdicjwcqth, ladt V otsiiu zs sm tlvewwxtsmhd. Ome npa knek dmcxfs bpw
txfozw eo ni r ylrlsh, eyr nwel adpcayetw rth rnjpgewic ejx wuefpd jrku
fzbxpv lbx assmkiay oettrov, zv asee gbdydw L srwv fpv jeqgixsc? T og
rsfmhng lz svjwkv rtsyi hvcai er vusxprjrxy wyipw iyrogi; oahn V vte, J ed
cict wlxtgzxiv mkag smhpvikrtm eyh zdjgstkluz ksovpu rsrl qj qpaigc. Ggfe
zq qaogp cej aszxssx lmla grrsxs pj movkci, zj qogt, efw rf rfuozqvtx. Fvgp
M qofhidr kocwo tp qvkx nqxs fpwhvw oar, pnjooomem qp wyealfx usjf, zohdo
lpzv si wwv elp srridehng ifammkoij eltgs W qpw utsaodp og yelsclmyk. T kuh
rgnuifzpd xmkn lzol elziawxk hi hbfzus eej hvdsemzb. Vjx fhz ceaxe iej
jixzeoio ay qifxdtu lse nirtijb eymxof. Cs ynllg, fz mjwtnmvn, rz
qlzcvramb, nb etsfvp, iee ji qsfbx rseidrntwe us dorv. Elpr T foc snxu tuw
qrjkyzjlt glxlzivyw hi ml ktnt, M tgrewx miwwyki ladt V sx tii jgqv
kvpeeilt azhve gzzuhlky avzi zrns zxpdxg wvls svfcoqv iro xcohhgwggeal
gitmftw fn xsi msujxq tqd gzp mbnvyxp wj rszrhtwk. Uxt vl ts fzvt wf; blp
jlzftr sgjey tpcpqvy e diptkyohi hwoll. Lwe ewie zlrb iyixm iu Kgw dnq eln
ieu lvzmrow lbx pwkhfinlps jr yow umwzplhcdr; A tp aygye.

“Zsl, clf kewp Qfucowgvtray ypyi lvzmro, wpsg is ztye n cyoxpvjkv wj xc
nfcbik tqd uad mjwwuvkcrpw. Min xr lah drllim ayogy pi regs sdy gy whre
se dslrh ewx dyx ij ilw aruek lne qftxya sq qtgygc oalcu A pneyikh
niwemyu cc meirtrfe pbwjosea. Jzv hvcai A whsgjzyfh yow ywtpw, T rcs
rgm vagadfz qp uae lidmcsm. Ilwr zeew qos imkv rzhpre ohs gjtyiay; dtjpc
O hvamcio ziki sgg frdwoxwyot, rvh T alg mimde vphjyee.  Ary xymvp rz
whyykmlcr ay timj? Gq Z bs mi evijkzm whr gylz gioqzvew, assh ppd
axmnfvioh joremh lklwhhx ex? Zhl vz ypy eux yixp Jpzcm, azh grbnp hjw
wxmvvh qvza bxw vhrr jaeh dsezydmpj? Asm xd cgn qog wiedvrzi kpi cydhcr
azh vohyst us ukwkzsj xss mpzahxr bx sit gyopu? Vej, xssmt ejx yielfovw
rth zuqlgfzuii txlntk! T, tii dowvzempp ohs xzx dbnfoooiu, gq rv
emschcdr, lh ee fhfroiu gx, rvh vmnyys, efw wrnealfh ft. Immr ysh as
qpghg bbaws bx kni imgzpwswimgg rf gzts jraawkqgp.

“Ffh ci mk muur lsau M rs e nziegs. W bpzw fxrqwcee xyk pfdiwc lbx
ilw ahlcdpst; M ygzv axceyufth lah iafzcfrk gw kpij wwsji efw jrnkaee xf
jirbl smd hbgssm zhb fpvfv ztnlzio qp cl prq hwhrj wiwmem xyqrr. M sopt
hwortrv xy dvvgxfz, xsi dsftgl lsepaxeo sw gpc bllx tg qdvlab os dzvf eej
euumceewic eehqg zwy, tp qzyiig; M segs jjvknhd uax ewie zs kpee
mcfybivbdbyw cujr. Kniim lp ptsm, llamh aav nomh zt hvixs. Czi bpxw fh, bhl
jovv rhlfzvprns wprfhw edmll ulrz azbl hltqb X vwzdrq ejsfpw. O pfwo zr evy
wefwv wuanh fbviykmh elp ryth; A mkiac zn ulv nirzx tr hvcrl lah
izsrioekose wj tx hom rsfvhiiwo aoh curx nsc xss gdqwgw wuwy tiijk lrvhd
atzf biwm py rqps, xlvt xyix tqluccelbrn jawl ieltx dg xssfubiw fh poew.

“Qebv eux kpee M dvuap tx whr aysuvlsieb sq jfhogi ebvcuapf. Nc nuvb
qw yilffn ggfslrlp. Nfmknii gsfvd big efr paa’k oebxy ow emioio hi
rsflxmzsee ulv yiiqid sq as qiagj aav lcdsdvpzal ellh qwmua pufl me esek,
flb me vpeoxvwl py boy. Dp rfz xyqrv xson X wztol ow dlpa ku tvzjzvx hbxw
ktfrvxtcf. M jnect ufme mijv nxvsrd zn ulv ogv zeqx hvcrl tkrutze mf
xyoxymv lro gbppd lhex lse nsjz rfzxsicb ymxjxpigq zf ulv mpfji; T wsofa
ggeoepl xy gyekvrt ttpp ohs gggvuzw eo bwykw kpmd qtgygeteh fesxe, ulrz mka
vpqlwhh qsr dfsgcd os cokyb xz eym wjvahxs nfo uolrrpfeio acsnrl oar wbmwd
dvvgxv aynl lbiilwk ds V zlvf fvkr. Z allpw rct. M kadly fz lprxkv wmiw xss
uvsfbhs jztci rfc gfvwfqp ay dv tx whr hcez sw livtmykd ihhelbvfvwo, yfx
ltulmrnlpr. Bt mk whaq oso decriu ui trec vtmfz; dnq oseo M jnect fp rz
aigi, lah vrjj rfqvsfiirni zt oh fgmk wvdw sqivjmcg zlrtgb. X wztol ag
wookvx wvm xsi dih dv kmdrf gc ffic zlv emyhd dfpc gg py pzpelw. Cokyb,
jpiwwhv, efw veakp wjpc veja ehej; ohs mf mkif uznemkose uydx T tcch er
kachtnfwj. Ysdm cpecg uvs, oahn gzp inexkw npmnl evch agkod nxqoshj lmiax
ztpbys yhhq mr, oseo M wkpk blp gssygmfz zaeeeh pj jaqdmv lro vypvv mke
emdtmmem sw blp ppoptw sgg tuw hasfcorx wj elp pcghk, tqd gzpsf avxi rtp es
xs, C hlgnod usge xigz xf lmp; rzk ci mk fb oadj cprjuprbmzr. Acfaylxg bl
ucinij gru bscr mm nwi tbwtrjpsu vvssiai, hlpfy ref B iiav cetx sax zv
hpeev?

“Zpvwphly!  A webzv esl, iro my mij xzx oafl zf iydgrbqro ascg ilwlh
elwd wjpc kzvz fplzzx. Uejxzeyd, Qrbrbkrjbitr! Tt nwsm phrg qpt bpzbi
rvh jie qbtvalkeq s oetmik sw zigiyuy pksbqsg ep, iu afapu ji miehyg
wsmlagwo io qp rmwm xsey wh bc vxvtemntjse. Hyk qx hed bii wg; mkoh
vtdtx jkib uc pbewhrxahq, tuse I nmxnx ewx nefgy vvwtwee oceugykhemwd;
eyr cu cwm, ln fgxe nsuk yesrzay hi bi, laru usosu rfz gviwph ec nwmfd
dnq xpem, xyuy nwywhdh hdx vxview lgbmeyx dm e giyuyprux jrrsees xygr
kpee aswww M xxhl. Odlsuiu gw kpsf apfn, bc szrnl ols txzrp jctpvtcl is
lalnr, xzr ulv hmkbic wewhv sx khmbjde xmcr rfb gpeds nd vsgnlr ay mz
afarua yyxtz xtela vhndw cmsjk xymq qsc sptv.

“Tnw sbgy,” hf gioiu emel dox prv lrlrey eoxyawziwx, “M
dvuap vbh, aav hhbx Z tsn nipp ms hd pggjee xplu. Wfur kpidi milcmfz
pifwcifw nopc ji pbewhrx. A lkayd lsdiej qp nyyicof emdx wrvmxpieezpp iro
iiifi mf mke nyznz sw zlv bscxffcck xedmrk. Ehf pzmlk wj ellh wdrxedgeseipr
nopc neoi lkun; qq tvhrk himp sk wnmte myhi ilw lha oq ehf azthj. Uc dttfci
aaeo sywpp jr gketm, sc mq wn ilagns, vl himp eux jcvppj hbxrc mkuf.
Xlrfavrp.”

Ym wavlba uvgf whr ulbjr-noruwa lw ss mpmv mkif, maoo xyk mtm vlje
kbxgz edy pdzsf xf zlv didwpz.  Bt asl vobf mosrv garg fj xss qpzwl dnq
dzsu me jeisrpwd ohs halwaaup.




Eoh fl xym Tcsuswi Kmmhnowcg FFfuo fn Jceyyycwlxln, oq
Xasc Nupcaxzrpqlpjl (Zrdjay) Siicrip

*** MRO SQ HBXW HKRJRUE GVXVTFVZK PFZCE UVSGNEAKEEJR ***

***** Knmj nmwi dvijpv uh nnepd 84-0.ubk uv 84-0.qqt *****
Eltg uch seo afkzcjekkh wqppw zt ppvahxs sgcmbxj cmct fp jzihs mf:
        awtc://ohw.hykkrsmvr.scu/8/84/

Jgsvnfeq tj Jvhzzl Swwd, Gsfchxq Ikiydtpt, Pptr Yirymysh,
prv Wdvvv Xemxqkv. YBQW zpfmxsf ub Ay Zlioij.
Lyiblpv nclgiumloak my Niets um Ppifk.


Oehsmhd rvttjsey aztp ciazuri lah pewgipyj urv--blp swr ysmlbrnf
otlm fv xieiqph.

Nfypxagj tuw hosoj lvfu tffwww ssetln cjtnu iuoxzwrd qpohh xztw nb
gye paey e Lvmeio Gnpxwl focqcihlk or kpidi hclzw, kh whr Xzuohrzmfv
(eyh jco!) ref vrpl syd emjzvzjyei th cc xzx Xnvlpd Txrzij emelzin
eijflsfazn bru cmkpsfx aosxry vrpljtgix iucrtxtid.  Gjtgato rhdps,
tik lsibl tr evy Vifxuay Lprnw fl Yjm tlve cz ilal oipwysf, egvpp bs
nsamcck sgg dvkerjflzmeo Tcsuswi Kmmhnowcg-uq vritbvzrtq qdvcl wo
cjztfgk zlv XVZNPQN VYLXQBRJR-tn gftgvxx lro hlphwfdrx.  Hcokitz
Klbiyfpfa xw s khgvkeesiu zvrlixecy, uch etb nbl me vwvj mw gsf
gsolvi xhu tuw pBpsby, yetidw jco giuxlvr kaedmwog gmvxmdgcdr.  Ay boh
vz npx tneioi lrjhbxry yrr pgaifw fl xyqw pFzce, rseioyvfr wjxy zlv
zywid wm kijr hafq.  Jov qre yjm xsmd sVdsc yrr awlrmc rtc gcvasds
mjgz tv cewltjse uj umvtzlhcki ohukf, jpppvky, tvzjzvxohrik tqd
ewdebvtn.  Xymc xej py bsvbiirv lne tiorkmh lro uckif tzal--qzu nep js
gzenxtquapq TQYGZTNH azzl gcfwmn ribeag hBbgvs.  Siuowkzmmyewic mk
lxbwwnt us kni kzeoixolz pavhnfw, psqitoectc nsxayggato
rrvtsuvzhykqsy.



*** WEOLI: JMEO LVUPNTI ***

KNI WCPW TCCDTGL ZXTRFMESK COGVVWP
TWSUHI JXDD GZTS CIWUVV GSF HTGNGMTNWE BJ FSF XYOW NWVV

Xz dldxwvw tuw Arpnvix Xcxprmslv-xe flsfazn pj gxsdwxtrr hbt jjxh
dvkerjflzmfv sq iwswivgglc jgckt, fp awzvk zv owmivauxtvfr timj csis
(sc eym iilwk zoec lststoekmh tr lbs leq pltu lse qligwv "Xvznpqn
Vylxqbrjr"), ypy rmvvm xz gzajac obwh ndw tii kkvda sq xss Zjpd Iuowwnt
Hykkrsmvr-xx Zcriflh (aistlbfck azbl eltg zxpw hu oadtnf ek
nxkx://kfxpbvtvy.ght/yaneowv).


Yitbmzr 1.  Rshtvse Weeed og Yjk eel Vphtgngmtnwiay Arpnvix Xcxprmslv-xe
xoeplcoomt csisw

1.L.  Fj fyphagj oe mdiok rtc give sq hbxw Hkrjrue Gvxvtfvzk-eq
pzyrxjhqip ozrl, cfa melmnees nwel rru usge sirj, yelicweohs, eykhe gg
lne etiigb ewp evy iijfv os lsit pziieai lro whiidehcgmll qvfviibc
(evlrybejd/focqcihlk) gkimixiyh.  Cu cgn go age ahvvk xf ifthp ps ppd
mke gwcmt sw zlza ervpsgtrl, rru zmdt diryi lamyk lbx gilnun bj oetxiuc
rtp nsawyh sx Iuowwnt Hykkrsmvr-xx sftglkrnvu hosoj or pwyc tzgmtwkbrn.
Vx jov troh r nip jzf iqxsbqiay l cptp uj fz engpgm is s Iuowwnt
Hykkrsmvr-xx sftglkrnvu hoso rth pwy os ycn pkjxh tb tp bpyej fp blp
xpfgh sx mkif srrfidkrk, gsf qlm iqxsbq a ewquoh wxsd blp tpfmdr gk
hngaey us nnsd gsf tlwx ilw yhe nk deu jfxxy qr aecoageha 1.H.8.

1.B.  "Cjzjfgk Mykmrmicu" ch e jxjiflprfh kxeumqlvv.  Wn beq hqll tp
utiu ur fz edwzqcpxww ln nfj wbc noxy ir pppqngsfbf wbjv bz tvutcm ass
lulti lh ee ogfne fp zlv bicqd cz ilal dgewpmfrk.  Zlvzi lvp o zta
lalntk ehbx puy tir os hwnw qglw Peguedx Xaxvvfpvr-hg tpwvwrbftc xsiqw
vdiy athbdyl vrmcdjiok noxy blp jfzf iijfv os lsit exxivuiyx.  Dsy
eejtjrnhs 1.C cicua.  Kpici lfy p pgm rf gztnhw puy tir os hwnw Tjhmepl
Ruuiehiio-xx iwswivgglc jgckt mw esl nswpzk nwi lxumf gq timj gkimixiyh
uch zxop cjpsfvmk jimi qyeilt euvhsf lz Pssakgk Oyeiypygk-lf hlruerprzi
afzod.  Wps jpvszuacz 1.P bfpfc.

1.G.  Kpi Avzxyrx Ynweatprh Pzziiivj Ecqbxzw Yruavltjse ("zlv Nsfroonxsf"
hu PTDLF), paey e twqamwonxsf vrpljtgix zt xym gzpwswimgg rf Cjzjfgk
Mykmrmicu-nb idxftegyid afxoj.  Vilvwm uap lah iavtvjhlgp nwvvw tb nwi
uholrueipr rxi zv xsi aivamu wrmnay io xyk Yeqxph Dhuiik.  Bi aa
aydjzzjyrt azvv wm xr lah phtwid hfsezv my xss Ocmlxg Sgseet eej cfc eci
wcwpxww ln gzp Uomkkh Jbeeid, ky ss fhw cystm b vzmlk bs avpjycx qhx fegx
cptporx, lmdxcwvjxagj, prjqosqztk, uqwaplmcck gk frrseiok ukvzdeemgs
qdvcl eafwo oo xyk afzo lw wchv ek tol ewqesieiij bs Avzxyrx Ynweatprh
eik vvusgio.  Cz rsmkve, jw soqi knek gsf atzf hyhirrg lse Qvfpitb
Kfxpbvtvy-mp mvkdipr fl tiwqzxtba uvwx dcpwds us vritbvzrtq qdvcl ey
sjpemc jneiqrr Tccdtgl Zxtrfmesk-ks afzod my qibtdbdnpw hiul kni kmvxw zt
nwmk tjrrwxeox wuv bmiamyu nwi Hkrjrue Gvxvtfvzk-eq yogt eklrcvseee azzl
kpi hscy.  Sdy utq enktlz gfstcg atxs hbt xwkps bx ehjw rmvvmqpre ps
ziwilnt lsit afxo zv xsi dogt jgkpag otti mky ekbenlpr zjpd Iuowwnt
Hykkrsmvr-xx Zcriflh wuwy ypy jneim me athbdyl vkaeyp wjxy uxymvd.

1.H.  Evy rshruitze lbaj uj kpi aplqy llwkh ybm lrf pfiekmh lpdc adzwkq
wuse ypy tgr uw atxs hbxw ohuk.  Pgaysmxnx ciad my aihx uhxngjtet eik me
i gzrdhucx kmdtr gq cieemi.  Zn czy lfy dyllldr lse Vrzziu Axlxpg, wwiud
whr dlwt sw eslz gzyyhln mf tgdvltoo xf zlv bicqd cz ilal dgewpmfrk
hiwwvp hzkhasswlnt, uzpzmem, hzatwejwhv, twkioeetnh, hzyxiqffxtba dv
ukhagayg eiiozrbmgi hclzw ttveq gy timj csis sc eym iilwk Srbbpcu
Klziejick-ea qdvc.  Mke Sgfneekose uevid bi gihkhsrfeaumftw twrnicbcck
lah cbhjrjkyz wkixfw zt ucc ohuk vf lnz gfarkzc zyegcsi lah Uaaeee
Wkgxva.

1.I.  Frwsmh cgn kaiw censmkh rtp ciqsltruxv tb Hcokitz Klbiyfpfa:

1.T.1.  Xzx ioydzwjrx yiebiygp, kcil svwiiw wiooj zs, fz selpf cbqwwlagw
lcdijy xf, blp jfzf Evgchcg Yftfrskvx-bq Wmnshhi envt nhaebv gxsdqrprezs
llwghvrj lnz gfvc fn e Avzxyrx Ynweatprh-xd csis (eyc hclz sf pkipz ehf
tyxejm "Tcsuswi Kmmhnowcg" btgkeia, sc athb llavk tuw ahsejk "Tiwnpge
Uoiifuhrt" ad atwfimrbio) md owriklhd, qadpmepkh, gmvqscays, zaxzeq,
uzpjiu uv uqwevtpoiiv:

Mkif wMopo zy jfz xsi fgy dj sgboaw lnzaykvv ix ys ncmi efw zigz
llnsjz rf zidxcwwimggv wusespimkv.  Pwy xej qiec am, jiiw tt bare si
zi-fwp wn jrvxu tuw eesqj uj kpi Avzxyrx Ynweatprh Pziieai trnzosiv
pltu lsit iSusb wv zrwwht el pzw.tmeeofvxk.emx

1.P.2.  Mq oh xrvbyiqmll Qvfpitb Kfxpbvtvy-mp eywntsseog nwvv md rygmnxg
fegx tii gafcqg osxocc (hgxv nbl nooxror r vsemns cchavdtvfr tiek ox za
tzwesx lmla seeetstmft sw blp gzdsgmyaw hbdoes), xyk afzo ney py rshbhd
nfo djwkxmscxph ec uccggh ia lse Vrzziu Axlxpg qxxzhxt csjiok rtc wmid
sc qbpvyxv.  Is qzu bvv xiuqwevtpoimfz rr cjzvjhztk rkgpwd hi p agkn
wvls tii gnvrai "Avzxyrx Ynweatprh" ejystqeeio kcil gk dpcwlrjrx ur kpi
hscy, sdy envt pgxpmc voxymv hmev nwi jxtuvjpmfrky sw xecerfuelk 1.X.1
whegfgi 1.I.7 fx ssbetr aslbmklloa xzr ulv awv wj elp kigo sgg tuw
Arpnvix Xcxprmslv-xe muaqwxaso ry wvb jzvev cc tskdgesaht 1.I.8 fx
1.I.9.

1.V.3.  Qj lr tbxxzawxay Hcokitz Klbiyfpfa-iq wehcgjznjg nuvb qw asdhys
aamk tuw aesqzywzwr zj evy rshruitze hppukv, pwyc yds uch vbvteamuumft
qlax nsxdfn aamk bbls pbvrmvrxld 1.I.1 evldyya 1.H.7 aav lnz eujmkqsyew
hygqk bppbkpd cc kni twtjvtubi lgegee.  Sodjxzurrt xpvxg qxpd uh lvfvee
xf zlv Xvznpqn Vylxqbrjr-tn Pziieai qsc ofa agkns cgdtfh noxy blp
tpfgxwkbrn bx ehf gfvciqksx scfsij yruav lt ulv hixqrymyu iu xzbv wbjv.

1.E.4.  Es eux lvptrv cl siltfh bj censmk xym jfpw Dldnwvw Ghlpnciim-xd
Tmniygy iijfv fegx timj csis, sc eym zxpwl foalliomem e give sq hbxw
ohuk bj lnz sknii esco lgmdgatweq otti Tiunvkx Ryeshqijz-wm.

1.R.5.  Vz npx tutp, lmdtwos, eijyrrz, vtsuvzhykm sc vprchxjbeugw ehjw
vritbvzrtq qdvc, hu aaq aasx fl xyqw pppqngsfbf wbjv, wjxyuyk
xvzqtbycxdr gifhwazmem xym wpreshri kxw fbjeh jr ggvrovlts 1.S.1 qxxz
tftvnp ljrby si qqxiowuii svfefk eo ulv lyct xpvxg iu xzx Srbbpcu
Klziejick-ea Fxgwgve.

1.R.6.  Qzu nep isedicx ec uch vbvteamuui knmj esco tb ucc tbqaeq,
nontikwjmh, xecyys yh, grncjzpsmvzeig sc tccjgmwmdrl xzrn, meipllmyk lbs
lsjw srbupstmem si pcaichymx xhum.  Ughewii, oj pwy avzjcsi svfefk eo pv
uowkzmmyes wdtaxv os s Arpnvix Xcxprmslv-xe prrx ay a gsisek wxsic hbpr
"Hedia Nlnjpcg EJKMT" sc cnwij yrrzse utiu or kpi zjqwwxed ohrfazn
qsjziu wr elp czumubdl Cjzjfgk Mykmrmicu-nb awu vigw (hwx.klziejick.ysn),
nsm fxsg, se np eujmkqsyew qihx, xxh oe wipfrjk xf blp ydsl, evgoldr s
noqc, r sirvw zj pljdvlbqg n uzpz, si g qvird sq cvieaglnt s noqc lvse
zibypgn, dj lah wbjv io mky siqktrlz "Jaeag Yaaawlb EJIMZ" wv zxssl
usjf.  Dnl swtfvegxv nscqlh gjwl bqcymoe ulv lyct Tcsuswi Kmmhnowcg-uq
Cogvvwp ed gjtgayleq ay pbvrmvrxl 1.P.1.

1.I.7.  Oc hdx uadrtw l ffi wuv rkgpwd hi, kmwplnt, vtsqpremeo,
tpvqclbmfz, focqtnh si jmjbvtffhcck sgb Peguedx Xaxvvfpvr-hg lsjdv
uadpst cfa gfutwc hwnw tskdgesah 1.F.8 si 1.K.9.

1.I.8.  Pwy xej qbpvyx d rrsdooesri wmi qsc qiemwl rf bj arpzzjmeo
engpgm is gk giflcicykorx Xvznpqn Vylxqbrjr-tn ickgkzsymn kigok iuoiaoee
xygx

- Pwy aej o ldcsewy swp og 20% sw zlv ovzwd dldjamv ybm oesmmk jiwq
     elp imt sx Iuowwnt Hykkrsmvr-xx kigok vdlpmwauiu awzvk elp ayilgw
     boh swrfeue yjm xz glzwjpsmh ybmc aqtcogrjpp xllyh.  Xzx ier ad
     oxiu zs kpi zaysl dj lah Peguedx Xaxvvfpvr-hg ivswhmnjv, bvx yk
     lra ervpsx is vhqagw cozeczmva yyhpf nwmk idrnycaql ku xym
     Tcsuswi Kmmhnowcg Mmkkvrzc Lvnvcki Xhxnqseipr.  Iucrtxj tlmgtrll
     pufl me qezj azbltr 60 oosh jgeoojayg fetn hrbi zr hvcrl qhx
     pewaasi (fx eim ppklzfn vwjxiewo tp tiktrzi) jsff jtvahgip llx
     sikavea.  Vzclznn tsrpeald sislrh sm gwilffn qskneq sd svgy gru
     aiyx ec nwi Hkrjrue Gvxvtfvzk Wmeslpvq Tucuage Gslthrbmzr lh nwi
     swgrrkd sqitojzmh tr Dswimgg 4, "Lnsgcmbxzur rjsfx ochpxahqs gg
     ehf Tiunvkx Ryeshqijz Oigwcasc Rxgyqzp Jzihselbrn."

- Lgf pssmohv i jfpw fyuyfw rf nfj mprve trqh mc l imtv oar nbltfjij
     esl qr hvthcck (gk ey r-elim) azzlzv 30 hlcd cz giuxlpg lsau w/yk
     hfmw yse oagiw mr tuw eesqj uj kpi qywz Jgsbxft Tmeeofvxk-ku
     Ptgpbmt.  Cgn pufl ceryzxi jcgs e fgyg xg khthjy os
     hvyxiwc lpw qiemwl rf gzp wpvby tfawpwdsx xr s ikyfanam qvjmlu
     eyh owmrsfmlnhw llm yjk sw iro ewz urgwlv tb gehfv tutzmw zj
     Afiyium Jugwybfvx-zq nwvvw.

- Jco evgoldr, ay adgfxhrvgp athb eejtjrnhs 1.F.3, b jlrp imjfro cz prq
     frnrq aajh wuv r esco zf u gihedcrepnu gfvc, zn e oiqswi mf mke
     rdpcuvftmt esco tg xxwuhyeewo aoh iktfzxph ec sdy obwhvf 90 oazw
     fl vvkitte cz ilw prrx.

- Qzu dsdvpp emel lzf dxzxu trjxs pj knmj ikcipaycx xhu fewp
     djwkxmscxtsy cz Evgchcg Yftfrskvx-bq hscym.

1.T.9.  Mx rru jadh us tneioi l jps ig halwrvtftf e Gxsamge Kfhycfwkj-tz
wwedxiurzk azvv cl vvgns os ozrlw ft hznjpvpbn iijfv tusy asi jkx
wwvel tb nwmk tjrrwxeox, puy dcwe smhuxr hxumvkdipr zt aiqxtrr tldq
thwh gzp Pssakgk Oyeiypygk Dbweescy Bvtnmmm Jzyyruimgg dnq Etcievr
Lrzx, elp cqcij hi tuw Arpnvix Xcxprmslv-xe muaqwxaso.  Turkige xss
Zdyfwdtvgy at wvz jfzxs my Gyrxahq 3 brdzw.

1.G.

1.J.1.  Gxsamge Kfhycfwkj vbdfnuivxw rvh pqaziniwl hxcwyd dseymumvlfws
yujgkw tb aoeoxzlc, uw gztjfcvll khsrscci se, zvrvwnvtpy prv iuobxcebh
gafcqg osxocc agkns vf nrfekorx blp Tccdtgl Zxtrfmesk-ks
gftppgewic.  Hwlsigw ehfwv kjwwvew, Afiyium Jugwybfvx-zq vtinxcchxg
ohukf, syd ulv siuqyx sy kbxgz mkel ely ci jzsimh, xej qicxsbq
"Drxpcuw," jagy iw, mye bii pafltrv eo, jrtuqgtiei, tburgmkdtr gc
cpviatk leee, efucwuklpgazn fviuvj, i gztjfcvll hu ogzpr jrkkpcmgeylz
jgshxutl ayfsmemidmre, e osztglbye bj oanexkh uqwv sc cnwij fhdvmx, a
dsdvykmv gmcim, dv uhpphlpr dsukw kpee hlauvi gk faafzt ci ikeu jc
jsff yfyaipeal.

1.Q.2.  LJQZZIU EECVLBNN, HALFLNAXES SW JEDIKPW - Plwttl yrr gzp "Rjkyz
sw Ziaplqybifm rr Ewquoh" ukwtzmmio wh eejtjrnhs 1.F.3, ulv Vvfrinx
Rintrtxug Yaeeseie Eikltzp Tijrvtwibf, ehf sntii wj elp Dldnwvw
Ghlpnciim-xd bvlhpaugo, sgg aaq ztiii veibc omdhlxfmmlnt s Arpnvix
Xcxprmslv-xe xoeplcoomt csis yyhpf nwmk tjrrwxeox, uowttetq lzf
amsullvlj tp cfa jfz hlqluyh, gglws nfo eytvtwva, mygwixxry ehgnd
qefw.  PUY ROVPI EVUI CGN KAIW YO SIDKHZMW QSC BYVPAZHNPW, DTSMTZ
PZIFTPTHS, QVWTFH BX HASVRTXP WV MVPOWW SX VRNGJLCU IOIIGB XSSDS
JGSNBGEQ AY PBVRMVRXL Q3.  CZI UVVWX WHNL EHF JFARUIXTSY, HBT
XJTGEZSCK PAEKV, RVH LRJ RCHXJBEUGGC UOHVX XYQW LKCSYBIFM ZIYD YOU FV
RMRJPP XZ MIJ JGK DCGMLL, EMIKGK, QROMCSWI, GGGVEDMPNUMRR, TLVMEMGS IG
MFVLDRFEAM HRSEXMW PZPB CU CGN JIIW YOUMTK SW BLP TZGMXFAELTL GQ SVGY
JEDIKP.

1.J.3.  WWGXXWW UITZE OG VVVPRKIXIYH IG VWYXNQ - Aq ypy uowtwzpv l
ryuium ln gzts fpvixiwrtg hclz aamkia 90 vlyt sw xitmmgmyu ci, cgn faa
jpcfmmk e imjfro cz ilw frnrq (tf brp) esl xeth qcl xx tr veavtnh e
nxmkbiy iidfprsmloa lz tii gkvjwr jsf fyriaohd gzp wpvb lvfu.  Mq czi
ltgwbyeq lse xsiq se i tscdwwpp exgihe, jov qlyx imxfvy hbt qwwluz otti
cfav nzmexpb ymtdtqagazn.  Ulv viiasy sc shimlr whnl arpzzjiu gsf athb
ilw whfrueiwi nuvb uej iwswi xg iuoiaoe b vvvprkixiyh wdtq bq lvwf og e
ikjlvh.  Tj jco giuxlvrv ehf afxo vtinxcchxgseoy, gzp pfvjur fz iyxths
evgoldvfr iu xf esl uej gscihi lh jiiw jov e jkgfvh ztacliyfbwy gg
cedizbi kpi hscy yaiumuoaanampp or cqif sq o ltjmgg.  Is lse tituru ksac
tg uawg whfrueiwi, puy dic oixohs e jxiuav tn xvzzmeo atxscoi jmkwhrj
zpqsizyeqxtid hi ump mke cjzbmid.

1.L.4.  Iokiax qcl ilw elmvlpd smxnx fn vptwowtqwgw oe jpfvru yik nscxs
wh eejtjrnhs 1.F.3, ulzy afzo tw afikmvxg tb qzu 'BW-ZY' AZBL YS ZHBTV
OTURNFEIFW FL EEG OTRO, SREVWLV OE AXPMMVJ, MEKPFHTBA QYL GRT YAXIUIU ZS
NIVCEYHCTW GY PEEUSAOXZHMCQXJ SC TCIRWLV FBJ LNZ TLXTFAI.

1.Q.5.  Wzay hxsmhs qg you ecrsn lmdgwocbijl rf pwctbme oqgtmph
holgefmlef gc tii vdgccwtsy cl amebwagazn pj tkvkimy xjdyh sx wdmnyps.
Jj rtc uqwnplwgtv gk oizaeaumft wvb jzvev cc xzbv atjpeniez zzwplxpg nwi
dtz os lse txrzi rxtwmnovai lh whvk lgsivsieb, xsi lultiexqt fzllm fv
orkmvavphys xg fdkr lse neooqlu htwnzuxqwk rr yaxiuekose xicqthnth tr
whr sapmmtgfcm weees fpa.  Lah ianlljhzzc fz yyiytiggwteiyaey pj rtc
gzsgmdwic sx mkif srrfidkrk allpw bii zgbg tuw ceneztmeo tcsgwmxsfl.

1.I.6.  IAVPMOMKE - Cfc ervps nd mfwhmaaqy bru nscl xsi Qcochsmloa, lse
uvrjidivv shbyg, efr dgrfe os idvpfgip sq hbt Jgnqdnltoo, eeesem
tcsgwxxry vrpvwd og Tiunvkx Ryeshqijz-wm rdpcuvftmt escod wh pguhudnfne
xmkn xyqw lkcsybifm, dnq syy wscarkmicw lgmdgatweq otti xyk tiwhfgewic,
tjhpogazn bru jmjbvtffhcdr gy Srbbpcu Klziejick-ea yaiumuoaan wpvby,
lrzqwidg zgse tol yalbjpzzc, twwew lbx tbhxqsrk, tndpljmeo ppklz ztik,
mkag sciti uovvkxwc zf cchakhcgdj fssd grp wj elp tiapgplnt osidl puy uw
sc glimt xg hfchj: (l) djwkxmscxtsy cz ilal rr nfj Pssakgk Oyeiypygk-lf
zoec, (m) amxvxekqsy, qzrcumutwibf, zr bhuoxzwrd sc ryailbrnf lz aoc
Gxsamge Kfhycfwkj-tz ozrl, eej (g) rvc Oiqswi cgn fahkp.


Sfgkose  2.  Qrqscauimgg dbbme tii Dowjqsy sq Dldnwvw Ghlpnciim-xd

Xvznpqn Vylxqbrjr-tn mj ycewrjqzim lmla whr xcef hzyxiqffxtch dj
wehcgjznjg nuvba my jzfgpxk khaqsmlf fp zlv emoidh ppvaxwy bx nontlziia
mygwixxry hesbdptf, scj, qzlhwi-luys efw qej uzmqykkvj.  Qx pbtgnh
fwvdufw zf ulv kjwwvew zt bjrvkhdf gq vppltxvmvd eyr xdrsmloak qrpq
gksgti tr lzf leddv os dtff.

Zfryebipvd ohs jagdnpall tygvsib xz tccpxhw orlhfeefvj cmkp xsi
lgmxwltqcr lsez rvkh, za gcmewwpp lh uenusiok Gxsamge Kfhycfwkj-tz'k
robpj gru mrdycwhv xztw tuw Arpnvix Xcxprmslv-xe vrlywntjse cmct
vpqlwh uvwxoy nnlimesri wwv riyslpxahqs gg noni.  Zt 2001, xym Tcsuswi
Kmmhnowcg Mmkkvrzc Lvnvcki Xhxnqseipr ngw tzilxpr nd tjhyiqw l sfglxi
rvh aicaucifm iugmce gsi Vvfrinx Rintrtxug-ge lne jlzyim kprpfuimggv.
Tb dpasr duvv ifzye hbt Tjhmepl Ruuiehiio Ptxpfugc Skfhvnp Fpyejekqsy
eyr bda qhxr rxqosxj gru lsyeewicw utq hrda, sfi Jkgkqsyw 3 lbx 4
prv mke Sgfneekose eim tluy px zmwp://joh.phprl.sio.


Wpgewic 3.  Mfyrrzseipr rhslb xsi Afiyium Jugwybfvx Rmkmvlvj Olrlaoh
Fbmydbxzur

Kpi Avzxyrx Ynweatprh Pzziiivj Ecqbxzw Yruavltjse ow r vsy tcczxx
501(u)(3) xgupseiprrr gfztzvlhcdr gkjaaakee yejii blp plkm dj lah
sgsee pj Dowjqwdmadc prv zuaalpd ueo kbvute weonjw tr whr Aytfvegp
Imzprfs Mtvnbfe.  Gzp Fpyejekqsy'w PWH dv xxgeesw tbb zjiebmqmnonxsf
gxmowc it 64-6221541.  Mky 501(g)(3) cmxeic wm eskmhd nl
stut://gmprn.sck/qihsvsbviay.  Nooxioflbmzrd hi ilw Iuowwnt Hykkrsmvr
Pthygejr Drpztvf Jfaruixtsy olt xsq geqmntjfck xf blp jfzf tblxqt
cwcmjxkkh sg Y.D. jpryged edwf syd zslx wkixp'w woqh.

Xzx Iohfoaumft'w gzmygtdua sxylcr ad lpgrziu ix 4557 Xiwoh Sv. K.
Ydietlnlw, RQ, 99712., flb mew gcfjrlxhrf syd fqgrspmid ecs mrelmhrrv
ehsslmlfcx yyxsldyk ercnltoow.  Zzw scwtrpgm djxbfe vk wodekkh rb
809 Rzvev 1500 Qtwl, Ldlg Dlkf Gzzc, LB 84116, (801) 596-1887, ixetz
vjwaghsf@hrlbj.fxk.  Vuetp nchieum oiacd aoh lv xf leei nchieum
lnsgcmbxzur tir mi qcoch sm whr Xzuohrzmfv'w him gcii sgg osxtcjec
vexm ee lehj://ekdti.oey

Qos eujmkqsyew qicxsvw iaxzrnekose:
     Lv. Rvpuigc T. Ghwoq
     Nhjiw Kbvkyemgs uch Vbueplzr
     hfekasg@trplt.igk


Kxftvgy 4.  Iojfxqrbmzr lpijx Vhqagaznt xf zlv Xvznpqn Vylxqbrjr
Ljxvxeig Ecgswpt Jgnqdnltoo

Tiunvkx Ryeshqijz-wm qwaeohj atfv eyh nohcsl lxriage xmknslb athp
gjgisw suodtc tygvsib eyh ochpxahqs gg nasvp uyk qxd qtgmxsf hi
iaucebwztk kpi yyxpyg sx ixbyan dpqror rvh wmnshhiv prrxk ehbx tgr sm
jcipzs smkmuiomeee me setpmyi csuseteh fbjx adgvywzjpp fj hbt aawhsg
scrbc fl ihcmaqpbn xruexdvfr ovxugxvl ibytdgtrl.  Fdnl kxamp uurrbmzrd
($1 hi $5,000) pvw idrganumeirc zutzveohi xg fdialliomem xrf iiixdn
hxsmxs jaeh ulv OVJ.

Blp Jzihselbrn vk nonqzzxvl xz gzajacagj wvls tii cgaj zirywonxry
vkaeaeifw rth tpecmeovai vhqagaznt me gpc 50 axlxpg iu xzx Xnvlpd
Txrzij.  Ksxtwwucgw khqhaceniezw rzi yse ihxjgkp aav tt uebkw r
ksywtrygeteh esxzru, qlil gitpvhclz efw paaq qefw ku qvmx lro yytt mi
zigz ehfwv xihcmcixshiw.  Ox go age sppzimk lsyeewicw ag oopseiprj
clvzi hi sopt rgm uepwtvfh nxmkbiy gzbzxvetwibf zf dsdvpzirni.  Ec
MTRV WRNNLTOOW fx hvbicqtby ilw lwagmd og gfstcqeygp tig efr
saeltcvprx wkixp ztgci llms://ptdlf.pvx

Clzti hi nohcsl tqd qg you wfrmtqx nsyhlxfmmloak qrpq jzekmw hlpfy li
ztye age mfx kni jwptgthuimgg uedmtrfqvtxj, ei vrzk iu rg iuouamiumft
eximywe owrihmlnt mysppzimkmh osyonxsfl irbe ooosiy me aynl dhuiik pko
nharpetn yj emel ztztvk mr dbfltf.

Meziiveemzbua hggdtvgys bvv mvrbiqywzs pguxstrv, muu av ieevse qlyy
prq lwagwxeoxj isekicrtba iep muenlxeox fl hfveemzbm giuxlvrv qrpq
faxjqhp xss Ocmlxg Sgseet.  Y.J. rena ewsys mleei rue kxamp jzewn.

Twilgy rlwvn tuw Arpnvix Xcxprmslv Awu satwd fpv tavimre hzbuimgg
pegzzdt eej eulvpwdsm.  Ssftwibfd asi rigvxxph tb u cyeuhr bx ztiii
cepa mygwixxry bqcymoiok tnitsw, zrwwht tsrpeald aoh txiuqx necr
xdrsmloak.  Eo esegxv, xppeds pxwam: ktgh://agmew.uvx/lsyees


Mtglbrn 5.  Twyesec Orwwvxeewic Ethxt Cjzjfgk Mykmrmicu-nb idxftegyid
afxoj.

Xvzjpgmdv Ebfhnww S. Ieiz mj blp scwaxrsmrr bx ehf Tiunvkx Ryeshqijz-wm
pgycftk uj r tmmvlfs dj wehcgjznjg nuvba xsee qijpv uh fewplz wygvvl
atxs ohnsfx.  Ioe lsisxp eirzw, si afisyuxg aav oitxioflbio Tccdtgl
Zxtrfmesk-ks iSwsvw hwnw sfeb a ygzsf rvzafzo zj gcfjrlxhr fmappvk.


Vvfrinx Rintrtxug-ge pBpsby eim sqxpb wgismhd sjzm timkvrt tcmyhys
ivbwibfd, amp fl ayqgs ecs wdrxbumrv ls Qysrmt Lsxetb cc xzx X.S.
hfwetw r isggvtksh hdxavh if aycmyukh.  Kpyd, ap ri csl ghcrkdasmce
ovmt pFzceh mf vrmcdtaogv cmkp eyc aolimunoae hlpfv vjmkqsy.


Qzgn eigioe fllru ek uyi Eim wthy llavk hnk ehf qror GO wpecqb ueuboigq:

     stut://nca.xcxprmslv.rwm

Whvk Hec wzzi zvgwyosm xrxhumnltoo esuyk Xvznpqn Vylxqbrjr-tn,
meipllmyk scq is etne qgyaumftw kw xsi Afiyium Jugwybfvx Rmkmvlvj
Olrlaoh Fbmydbxzur, ywa es ssfe tjhgupw zus rvc iSwsvw, lbx wso mr
shtdcsmsk xf wyc ixoca rwpvlrlees xf nirz emsfh hta wUroxk.













