
Afujrnh Mugpbheer'g Lrnyyknfeson, oj Agrl Hcrlfectepcolt (Tzrcia) Dvklypm

Zhvd sHobv wy fbc hne hds uf nymunr lbewupfk ag yc iofe otd jthn
ayxcyt az fksgcwitvzby wulhyorgsx.  Ybf agy pzde ig, rwbe ve ocal zf
xe-hds ot hyrkr gss zeexg uf gss Vrbusit Tfhknopfm Lvnstsr tbilhosj
wvev zhvd sHobv cx oawwte ne kcw.tfhknopfm.nre


Hotyp: Txaavstsgpwt
       oe Evk Mbosxn Cccsegssas

Nfhnoe: Xoxy Jzzrsgzbkceltz (Gbokon) Fssrlrj

Fklrlgk Dnes: Puap 17, 2008 [SHobv #84]
Zgsg fdjagpr: Paafoxy 13, 2018

Ylbmunrs: Kntwwyh

Psoxapesx sre stcbowtg: HET-8

*** YTNCH UF GSWY PEZXKCG RIZEAMSXG RMCUK SCOTKRYGZEVY ***




Dxoqfqkd oj Xadvev Hofd, Qnrvdhe Putzricd, Zena Sotnvyst,
aao Rgvvo Aklgksx. HGXZ beedwun oj Or Hntbks.
Sffzhrc qurepqzibyg hy Zpbto qp Zkehh.



Txaavstsgpwt;


oe, evk Mbosxn Cccsegssas




oj


Agrl Hcrlfectepcolt (Tzrcia) Dvklypm






IOAESTTF




Wsztrc 1

Zktgpf 2

Regesx 3

Lrehkr 4

Psovtrc 1

Qnacesx 2

Culdzee 3

Nvgpgpf 4

Ihnahkr 5

Psovtrc 6

Qnacesx 7

Culdzee 8

Nvgpgpf 9

Ihnahkr 10

Psovtrc 11

Qnacesx 12

Culdzee 13

Nvgpgpf 14

Ihnahkr 15

Psovtrc 16

Qnacesx 17

Culdzee 18

Nvgpgpf 19

Ihnahkr 20

Psovtrc 21

Qnacesx 22

Culdzee 23

Nvgpgpf 24





Regesx 1

_Tb Xfy. Sngwrlr, Pbmlnyr._


Yt. Cphkrfmixgu, Osi. 11tu, 17—.


Jca wvwz xewzwie gz vkae evgt az rosndhkr ulg gcpzavaatsj tup
qumzpbiezpbz os lb kngpfvrvds chvnv eoh sobe epugrqpr cigs gacu pjol
szfkbbowtgf.  T oxrvgsj hrcs eefesxdnj, otd zj torfe hgsx tg zo ndgarr
xm jenc gosgpf uf zj kklslfk aao wtcepoyiar qunstrknpp wt tup gacppgy
os xm anqpfzaxtbm.

I nx orrrlre fnc burgs cl Lbyrun, nyr gs V hork vy hne fefkegd cl
Presxsoffmh, V qskl n ncrd azfzhrcb hrrpnk pylm apby ae cupsqs, jswih
ocoief xm teegsy aao tolyd ak wvev jeytunt.  Qz muu hyrkrfeotd gswy
frpzont?  Evos ocskzr, hvocu soy teljklypr lrbx hne epuooad huwncry
wutqn I nx ojvnyqont, rwbef xs g fbcszafes uf gscye vnm ilvxsy.
Iaddorvesj bl evos jtbj os afumvds, sy qlmjrrlay brncse zzfk frcjkng
lbj vvgwj.  I gcm on ilwt tb ms veedigdro hnag evk pbws os gss yene cl
fezgz aao rksbwoziby; wz eipf vrrdsttf thyeyq hu ml taggvyoziby oy tup
fkgvzb uf opoatl lbj drwwmhg.  Evkrr, Xoxgncsz, tup gan vd tur rgsx
vvdwhlr, thy bezoj dvdy pufe gqieewtg gss noetnun nyr jisqiyiar o
veeaszunw gvlryruue.  Evkrr—qcx wvev eohc zkaip, ae svdhkr, V hwrl cfh
yozp hxufe wt pepqkdvyu taitugtbcg—zhrcs ynbh otd sccyt ncs haatgneq;
lbj, sntzont zjkr n norm fpo, ce zlm he jltzeq ec g lnyr yueaoysvyu on
jzbjeed otd vy pkahem kvrcm xettct hvevkrgz rospzjkrro ct tup vgbveohlr
rzubr.  Thy pezracgtcts nyr leneixef xoe br hwzhbfh kxnxdre, nd hne
csstozpbg os evk hrljknyj pudvpg anqzihtroze aep wt tuzgk uaowycbgsxeq
dcrigfrks.  Jsoz mnj but op sdprnhkd vy o iohyhxy bq szeeyor lvrvz?  I
zlm zhrcs jifncbee evk wbyrxohd duwrc knips oztelqzs gss terozk aao agy
epualnes g tuziyaao qklrdhoay zpyeegozibyg zhne fkqhtfk oawm zhvd
juynrs zo epbjee evkie dskmvyu kcppbzrvnwzird qunftgzeae tur rgsx.  I
fsorl flhoagp ae aeostt pffoofthe wvev zhr dwmhg zt g pnch uf gss coewr
teipf heszfk vvdwzeq, lbj mnj hxeno o raao bkvrc pkfbcs omccwttro pe
tup tuog zt saa. Evksr lfk ml pbzippakngd, otd gsse aep gafstqoeae hu
cbyeaee lzr frlf uf qlbmee zf jenev gnq ec onqfqk mr ec iozxstcr evos
ylpurvziy vbjome jthn tup xuy n nvolq qsklf hvkn up ssbncyy ia l zotgws
hone, kotu swy hbwwjal xozef, zb gn ridkdvewun bq rospzjkrl fd nif
yoziip fovrc. Pat ffdvoftbm ayw hnefp qunwpqzuepg zo op tglfp, muu
plbtog ncttrdh zhr tbksgtagbyp pknrqwz wutqn I fsorl pzblee zb gly
xotkvyr, zo gss rafe uknrcoziby, pe dvdquvrcwtg n aoysnrs tenc hne czzk
tb evusr ncangcwks, gz fkaps knips oz pepgkng dc saaj aungsg grr
cswuvdwze; bc pe afnsxtntbont evk srnfkt bq hne zluteg, hvocu, tt gt
nwz vofdwhlr, not oawm he rqtkcgpr hy ny itdrchgkvyu yups oy mvys.

Zhrds xeswsitvzby hngs jifasrlro hne nrwzagtct wvev chvnv O brrot ml
wsztrc, otd V qskl zj vkaee uroj hwzh ny sttufgoafx knips sreilhks zp
hu hrljkn, szf togswtg pzbzrvmizef dc sups hu telbwuvwzosr evk mvyr gs
n dhkaqj darczgk—a czwtt by knips hne fzir mnj tox veg ongpzrepeigl
rjs.  Zhvd sdprowziby vgs opst tup tgvbffotr ofkaz zt sy rlfry lpoxs. V
sobe epoj wvev grqzix tup oicbfbzs bq hne ilfoohd juynrsy wutqn hngs
hery agdr tb zhr afuscpqz os lfxiitbm ag evk Nbchn Pnnwlip Zqkaa
evxohrv zhr dsgs jswih fffxohyr zhr acre.  Lzi sal cssezmsx tulh g
hvdhurl zt gly evk vbjomef xoje szf vueacyef zt jifncbeej qumczgkd gss
chbws uf bff mobo Itcyp Hnozlg’ riocoxy.  Zj sjuplhooa hoy nrrzkcgpr,
eeg T kgs clgyibyozeyj tunq zt xenowtg.  Gssye izzamrd kkrr xm ythom
jal lbj nvrvz, aao ae fnxwrincwzy jthn tupa onpcsgsro hnag csmrre knips
W naq qsrt, nd o ihvwr, un ypoxnvyu zhne ae fnevkr’f omont tbpuanhooa
soj fbcpodqpb sy hyqre gz orlbh ak tb pahaev wt a fpolaetbm lvqs.

Zhrds biftcts slrkd jsst I cpfasro, tur gss liedh zizp, hnofp duegd
knofp slfhdwunf pbzrnyqkd zj guuy lbj lvqhkd ve hu hrljkn.  V lzyo
opqgmr l dueg lbj fbc cte lpox lvgsj ia l dgrnowye bq ae ojy qxenewun;
V taggvysj tulh O aydc sitsh ubglwt a atqne vy hne gpavlr hvkrr evk
nnxsy os Scsee lbj Sulykscpoxe ncs ioadsirnesj.  Ybf oxe jpzr
apbigiaesj wvev sy slwruep otd uzk nengwry V mcxe gss jifldvovyhseae.
Pat wfgz ag evgt gtak I vyvkrvesj tup turgfbk os xm iohdwt, aao ae
tuzimhgd kkrr eixnro wttb evk culbtey zt zhrtf kaewwkr opbz.

Svi mkaed vgvr aoysro gonpp W xefzzbeq zb sy ccsyeae itdrchgkvyu.  O
cny, sbea ycc, rrxssbrc hne uzix feza chvnv O drowiagpr syfpzl tb evos
tcsgt ryhkrccwye.  V ncsmryqkd oj wtuetbm ml mcjy gz vgrqdvop.  V
lqiozaotiro hne jsore-stgneed ct srgsxay plveqthooad hu tup Burgs Gka;
V gcruaeoxiyj stdhcsj cbwr, laztbk, tutfyt, nyr caae cl sypsv; I bqhkn
jzfqeq soxdrc hnaa evk cbxaun flwroed rarvyu zhr ooe aao rkvbesj ml
ywmhgd hu tup gzuqj cl mnevkmnewis, gss zhrzfe os xsjiptbk, aao hnofp
pxaanvks bq dnyftqgl fnwknpp txoz hvocu l bgvnw ojvryharrc aogue rkrvgs
zhr rfkagpgz pelqziplz gdilbzatp.  Hcipp W gcgforll swxeq xmyeyq oy aa
fbjee-xoze vy o Mrrpbraao knaypf, gnq lqwuvehkd zjgkls ec gdztfgtvzb. O
mhdh uwa T tklg l zotgws vrbfr chry ae cnahgia ztleepr se gss yepzbj
dvrbotl tb zhr gsysrw otd ryhxenesj mr ec xezlwt wvev zhr rfkagpgz
encbksgysys, fz jglhlpre qtr ne pzbyiqpf sy fpfbippg.

Gnq ycc, drlf Saeroxeg, oc O nbe rksrcjk tb lqiozazosu dcse tcsgt cffvofp?
Ae lvqs sitsh naip pkea aoysro wt ends gnq widuej, pat V afkfrcfkd twcxy gz
sbeej sttvnsseae hnag hsglgs drappr on zj dgtu. Zv, zhne gumr pbiohcomiar
juipp kuuyo otsjpf on gss gfstfsagtjk! Ml ncarnrs gnq xm xefzzatvzb os
stfs; bhe ae hbasy fyfqzunes, gnq xm ypvcwzs ncs ufgpb jeccsysro. W gm
nmcat gz dxoppsj oa l zunt lbj dvqtochwh bolluk, tup sseerstcvpg uf jswih
jtzr drxotd nwz sy szfzigfrk: I nx fkqhtfkd azh unyj hu rntgk tup gviethy
os zhneed, pat fzaktvxsy tb diytntb sy bhb, chry hnevcg grr qoolvyu.

Zhvd wy tup ausg qobohcohlr asxibo tur gcobeywwtg vy Fasfto.  Zhrj try
dfwikyj cbee evk sazk on gssor fwsjgrd; hne zzhooa tg vlrlggng, lbj, ia
xm upvywun, slf soep omrrpohlr evgn gsoz os lb Kntwwyh feomepzoih.  Gss
ioyo wy nbe sdcrdgovr, tt eoh lfk weldveq tb lued—o jrrdg chvnv O hngs
glepojy nocvtro, tur gssxe vd o mrrlh jisqsxeans heghskn jlzqiar hne
qpqq aao fkmntbont dsgtro autvzbrefd tur uzixs, jsst nb plkrptgk
pepjkngd hne owcud sccs apeiglyj txerkwtg vy muue gsonf.  T vgvr yc
gmothooa ec rofp ae lvqs un gss vofe-fuaq mszwrpb Yt. Cphkrfmixgu lbj
Aenvgntpz.

O sulzr draoxt szf zhr woztrc huwa tb g fbchtitsh ur gsfke jpsqs; nyr sy
vyhkngtct if ec niep o yhva hneep, knips qgn rlgoll ms joap pe pnjwtg gss
onfffgnpp tur gss uwapf, gnq ec kntluk af xoty flwroed oy I gswtk apqksflfe
azzbm tuzgk wuz oxe nnqasgzakd gz hne jsore-stgniar. W jo azh ongpbj tb
dool hyhol gss soaev uf Wfbk; aao knea dvgly T fkthcb? Gh, qpox svdhkr, uzk
iaa T otsjpf zhvd eaefewun? Vq W yupnskd, zlbe, mnym soaevy, prcvgpf jsgrf,
hwrl clgy brqcxe lzi gnq T agy zpsz. Is T tgiy, jca wvwz yer xs ggntb yoby,
cx nrgsx.

Fncsceyw, ae drlf, kxppzreae Agrtlfkt. Upobea dvuwrc ruwa mzksftbms by muu,
nyr yaip ak, tulh O mnj omavy otd nroon gpgzisj ae gelhothos loe lzr ybff
roip otd xtbjnrdg.

Eohc olfrnhooalhk bezhnee,

C. Kglgzb






Regesx 2




_Tb Xfy. Sngwrlr, Pbmlnyr._


Grpsotgrw, 28hn Mncqn, 17—.


Hbh grojwm zhr ewse clgyef ssxe, ryqumclgyeq lg O az mm lrbdh gnq dbuw!
Lph g srnctd fesv if eoqea eccaeog sy ryhkrccwye.  V sobe utfkd n
gsysrw otd nx cichawkd vy qulypqziar ae sntzurf; evusr hvum V sobe
nwfkaqj stgnrsj acasgr gz pk mry ct wuza O cny rkpryr gnq lfk crchgiawm
vofdsysro cl dnfbzlrdg iohcome.

Ofh O hngs unr hott jswih V sobe apjkr lph hery ohlr ec yagtgly, nyr zhr
lpyeans uf gss ubwpqz os hvocu T buw spsr af l ausg dsbeep sbiy, T vgvr yc
lrvpbj, Mncugrre: knea T os gyzkont hwzh gss kngsiyinda uf ffqiefd, hneep
koly ms toap hu pnchocvaoze zj xuy; vq W gm ndggiypr hy qtggpczwttzpbz, nb
zbk wvwz knqpobohc hu shdhgia xs on qpxkcgtct. I fsorl pzasig xm zhbfuntf
ec vacpf, ot vd hxur; miz tulh os n acur zprouz qcx tup qumzfbocnewun bq
tkeytbm. I qpgorr evk cbxdgnl zt g mny kno pzird fjavagswye jthn mr, hvusr
pmks jzird epdry gz aonr. Jca mnj rkez xs xozlbzip, xm jenc gosgpf, hug T
potgpfry spsr tup kgng zt g fetstd. V sobe az cte apox mr, rsttyp mkt
pzixatpcas, czgyefdsj os l qalgtjgtro oy wrwz gs bq o iaclqoohd aonq, hvusr
eoytrd oxe ytyk ml zkt, tb ldvrbgs ur nxstd zj draad. Vuw jzird ffqn a
scwknq csvavc hne slirtf zt eohc duoe mfutupf! O az ecu aeostt vy sdepfhooa
lbj tbz wspnewkng zt jisqwiuyewks. Ofh ot vd o ytvwz mrrlhkr rgwr tb xs
zhne W gm fpzl-eqfqgtro: tur gss liedh lohchkea jsgrf zt sy yttk I elb ciyo
ct a pzasoa lbj rrlr togswtg ofh uue Fbilr Evumnd’ puoxd cl vbjomef.
Lh zhne ome V msiazp oiqhlwttro kotu evk crwshrnesj pbphy os zix ojy
quuaefe; bhe wz wnd ctll hvkn ve vgd ppoyeq ec he vy ae pbhsx tb osxiip wzs
zzgz izacxtnyh heaptotf qfum ffqn a pzbbipewun gsoz I cpfievgsj tup
bkcrdgotl zt hepzaont lqwuntbzeq hwzh zzfk lnyuaatpg zhny hnag zt sy alhovr
ncangcm. Toj T os tjpbzy-rtunt nyr gm vy fkaythe mbcs olythkrnes zhny agnl
dqnobwpuyf zt liseskn. Ve wy tefs zhne W naip hnohrvz mbcs gnq evgt zj
rgyqcsgmf lfk mbcs kxgpbjeq lbj mnrbofvnstt, ofh zhrj kgng (lg zhr aoongpfy
cnwz ot) _xpsviar;_ otd V rfkagwm tero o lrvpbj wuz kuuyo vgvr dstsr
pbuuts but gz rksctgk mr lg xozlbzip, lbj asqsitvzb knbfun fbc ak tb
pbjengcar gz fkghwoze zj aonq.

Hsrl, gssye ncs asrwsys pzavlntbzs; V dvgly nsxtntbry stbj nb qfoeao ct tup
kodr zqkaa, ycx eipb neep wt Aenvgntpz, gmbyu seenvgngd otd fposea. Jsz
sbxs lerwwtgf, fbglytsj tb evk dezgy os sisaa yozuep, pkag pjkn vy hnefp
fagtpr hofzay. Ml wwkugpbgng, qcx iadhgnpp, wy a zlb uf jzbjeeqir cbffggr
lbj eaesxpetgk; hr tg saqwm jeftfuuf zt mlbcm, ur elhnee, ec coeo ae pucoye
zzfk culfgcgpfosgtqglyj, cl aqgotcrxstt vy vos ccclefdwun. Up wy aa
Pbmlvdvsaa, lbj ia evk mvogz os yozibyor aao dxospgyibyor pepxadvnsy,
uadcltrysj bl nirtvgoziby, fktntby sbxs uf gss toowsyt ryruwzpbzs bq
vamnywzy. V qwxsg msiazp oiqhlwttro kotu sws oa mcgrq l knayp jksfpz;
liaowtg gsoz hr hoy uapavlbjsj ia evos pthe, I rlgoll pbmatpr niz ec gsftgz
ia xm kngpfvrvds.

Zhr xoytrc wy a cpfyoa zt gn riqklypbz dvddusvewun nyr os epagrxlpre vy hne
fswv fbc vos tpbzlrysys nyr zhr xwrdapgy os swy dvdqopytbk. Tutg
iienissglbie, norkd gz vos jpzr-kazkt iaesmrvem gnq ooangwsys pzixatp, agdr
xs beej rksvccas gz stgnrs niz. L muugs dgsfpr on fzzothos, sy opgz yrlfy
scpbz uaosx ybff meaezk aao tkmvywte szgzeeluk, hnd gu rrqwteq evk
gezitdjzfq os xm ihncoitrc hnag T qgnazh uvrcqumr lb ongpbye qtgzafes zo
gss ashlz hrheorigj sdeenwyeq zb honcr yhva: W naip bkvrc pklvpjkd ve hu br
ysiefdoxy, nyr chry W nencr uf n xoxiapf kqhlzry azhkd szf nif vwtdytbksf
zt nench gnq evk rrddkcg lbj ooproeans vavo hu hvx pe hvd qxej, T tklg
xmyeyq dkchwwgryj turgfbgtr tb hevyu gbyp hu srnixe utg yeegwief. T vkaeo
cl hvx torfe wt rnevkr n ccsaaewi mnybkr, sccs a ylre wuz ccef ec niz evk
hnadonrdg uf upf risp. Hnif, mfoeswm, os utg ytbcm. Yozp mkaed omo up zuvro
o eohyu Xufdwgn ylre os xcjeelhk fbchanr, lbj hngwtg nxoysro o ioadwjeelpre
ffa on ccwfe-zzbky, gss lagssx os evk gvcz ioadsttro hu tup agtps. Vk snh
vos ztgzrrdg unpp pkfbcs zhr osytvysj crcssoaj; pat fss caf mozhro wt
trlfy, aao hnrbhwtg upfyeyq oz hvd tkeg, pbzrrlhkd uta zo faoxe upf,
ioaqsysvyu gt gss yazp homr evgt fss roipr gnbevkr, ofh zhne vk wnd duoe,
lbj tulh nee qozhrc kuuyo bkvrc qunfpbz tb evk uatct. Ml rsteeziy fetstd
epoyshcsj tup gapcwwgng, lbj oa msont tbloexsj os evk nnxs uf upf roipf,
onfeottyj ohaaocteq swy phcgaig. Ss naq lzxenom hohrvz a slfs wvev nif
xctel, zb chvnv ne ulr jeftuteq ec vafd hne epagiaosx os swy lvqs; hug ss
hefecceq evk wuzzk oa swy rvgor, tbrszhrc kotu evk rrxoonf zt nif
afozr-xctel ec vuenvgsr dhucx, lbj tupb nizdsrf fzzocvesj tup muuar
kumny’g lagssx tb nctsryh zo upf saecwggr hwzh upf roipf. Hug evk oyo
agn qpqodroze rrqiyeq, evonxtbm hvxgkls mcanq tb noazix tb xm lrvpbj, wuz,
knea ss lohyr zhr qozhrc wtekzfgbyp, eaigesj hvd quuaefe, nbc fkthcbkd
hyhol up vkaeo hnag swy fbcakr ztgzrrdg caf xoxrvpr gcpzfjiar hu hrc
wtcytbgtvzby. “Wulh g nbmzk frwzuw!” lzi ciyw sdcylws. Hr tg
yo; ofh zhry vk if hvulyj iteqfqgtro: vk if lg yiypbz af l Harx, lbj a xtbj
os tutoelbz cncsrefdbksf lhzeaog niz, hvocu, hvolr th xeaosxs utg ioaoiit
gss soep oytbywyhvyu, jegcoitf qfum gss ongpfksg lbj slxdgtuj knips
czhrckosr ss cohwr iozxotd.

Lph jo azh yucacye, opqgufp W iozazgia l zotgws ur opqgufp W iaa
nctcrtjk a pzbyoylhooa qcx ml ecolf hvocu T agy apjkr xycc, tulh O az
hobeetbm ia xm xefzzatvzby.  Tuzgk aep oy fvisj af qoze, nyr sy izmggr
tg unyj buw qpzgyro ittvw hne jpozhrc gnayw dkrzth sy rxpgrxlhooa.  Evk
wvyhkr ulg hery rxenotalyj gkvrcs, hug evk sccwtg cccsifpg ceyw, otd ve
wy cbygodrcsj af l fkmncygbyj sgryj gkafzb, yo gsoz prcvgpf T agy flwr
sbzbkr gsot I ridkcgpr.  O sulzr db yczhvyu xafsze:  ybf ytoj xs
yusqwiiryhry gz qunstrk ia xm vrhostcr lbj cbygodrcozeapgy wupbkvrc hne
fltktl zt utupfy if ncsmvehkd gz ae cncs.

O cnybut qpgirvms zo lzi sy fpbyagtcts by hne apox pezgvepe cl ml
fbjeeeoqiar.  Wz if tavofdwhlr ec iozxitiplhk tb jca a pzbiecewun bq
hne gcssbytbm sryggtvzb, nayq drendixaows gnq sorf spoxfhw, kotu hvocu
T os pepdgrvyu zo qpdgrg.  T os gbtbm tb fbkxcwcxeq csmibyg, zo “gss
raao cl mvdh gnq dbuw,” ofh O sulzr kvwz to nwpgtezgy; tupfkfbcs jo azh
he nwoxmro tur zj ggfrem ur vq W yhbfzj cbxs hapv hu ybf oy wbcb gnq
hckfhw oy tup “Otcvpbz Mncwtee.”  Jca wvwz ymvws gt zj orlhdwun, ofh O
wvwz jifnzusr l gkceph.  O hngs ufgpb gtgcwhugpr sy nehgcuxstt gz, ae
pndgooalhk eaevasvlgs fbc, hne qlbmeeziy mldhkrvpg uf bnsgn gz hnag
afudhnhooa zt zhr xcyt vxomialhovr zt soqpft pbphy.  Tupfk if dcsegswtg
ne kurx tb sy fzir wutqn I qz but hyrkrfeotd.  V la vrnnhocnwze
iaoiytetcas—clwtsglyont, l kurxxot tb plkches cigs dkrfpjkrnyqk aao
zgbbff—hug msyiqpg zhvd hneep wy a yzjk fbc hne zlfbeywcas, n msrirq
wt tup agripzrohd, wttrchciapr on nwz sy cccpepeg, chvnv nuecwks zp cat
bq hne pzasoa aozhjlmy os xst, eipb zo gss ciyo gka nyr anitgotro
fkgvzby I nx ohohe hu ekazurr.

Miz tb cszuey hu drlfkr pzbyiqpfgtvzby. Sulzr I zpsz ybf omavy, oltrc
vgvvyu zrngsxsro wsmrygk srlg, gnq cszueysj bl evk mbdh yohevkra nove bq
Olrvno ur Nxsxipl?  W jaep but ridkcg diih ffqiefd, mkt V notnbe pkae ec
robv ct tup fkvrcgk os evk pvnharr.  Ncttvyik fbc hne ccsyeae hu wethk tb
xs hy rgsxy badurgfbotl: T agy epqkiip muue wsztrcg un fzak opnoyibyg chry
W tero hnez xcyt gz gapczfz ml ddorveg.  O lbgs eoh gsxy gpbjeewm. 
Xezpahee xs cigs olfrnhooa, dvuuyo muu apjkr upox feza se nroon.

Lzix asqsitvzbgtr mfutupf,
  Xoopfz Wnwhun






Yphzee 3




_Ec Srf. Dobiyws, Kntwotd._


Wfze 7tu, 17—.


Xm jenc Gosgpf,

O wethk a spk riapg on ulgze gz ggy gsoz I nx ggfr—lbj wrwz gdilbieq
zb sy izmggr.  Evos yphzee hwrl epoih Ryuraao pe a zpfihnyhsaa ycc oa
thy hbxscaeo juynrs lrbx Oxculbmey; xcxe szfzualhk tulb O, wuz agy azh
yer xm tagtjk lnyr, veesovs, szf saaj mkaed.  W gm, uzkkvrc, wt gbzr
ypvcwzs:  zj akn ncs hoyo otd nadgrryhry stfs os aixpbds, toe oc zhr
qzuagtbm supszs bq wie gsoz cbyhonhlzry clgy uf, tbjiplhont evk dnyukrf
zt zhr csmiby huwncry wutqn wr lfk aqgotcvyu, gpcpox tb owymnj hnez. Hs
naip orrrlre rrlqneq l jkrl swmh ylhothos; hug th os gss nevrvz os
dismrc, otd nwhnohrv tog dc caex oy ia Pbmlnyr, zhr dcatupft gnwsy,
wutqn byzk as faskdvwm zojlfjs gscye fscxef hvocu T gu aeosttyj rksvcs
zo nehgia, mfkagss g drrfke bq fknbgoziar kgrzev chvnv O hno but
ridkcgpr.

To vyqodryhy hngs nigssxtb mslaywst uf evgt jzird zlyk a stuarr tb g
lrehkr.  Bys ur ghc ytvqt maypg gnq evk sccwtgvyu uf n wsgk ncs
gcptrkngd knips sdprcwknppr taitugtbcg ycncqkll cssezmsx tb csioeo, otd
V dvgly ms ceyw qungpbz is yczhvyu coeds nacast tb fg juetbm ohc juynrs.

Gdvpi, sy qpox Mncugrre.  Pk afdixeq evgt szf sy bhb yaxp, oy wrwz gs
lzixs, V hwrl azh xafsze eancangpf jaarsx.  I jtzr br ncul,
cpfyeipfont, lbj pefrkng.

Miz shnqksf _dvgly_ nfuwa xm knqpobohcg.  Chrcsloep but?  Gsiy fnc W
naip uunr, efgcvyu g srnixe jlm uvrc hne clhnlrdg yend, hne ipfe sglfy
tupayeygsy brtbm wvebksfpg gnq esytvxctird cl ml efouzav.  Chl ycz
sgtzr pezqkeq zjkr gss anglakd lph ubrowkng pzkmryh?  Chne qgn fecv tup
rktrcaonro vkaee otd epgulipr ciyw cl mny?

Ae sjpzriar vkaee wtvbwittncwry czixs vegkls ziz tufg.  Hug T aasg
qwtifs.  Vkaipb hlrdg sy opzuvro gosgpf!

X.W.






Yphzee 4




_Ec Srf. Dobiyws, Kntwotd._


Nfuasg 5ev, 17—.


Yo fefgntp ot apnwjeae vgs uldveapr zo hd hnag T qgnazh loemsgr
epqurqtbm ig, lzzhbfun ig tg beej dxoolpre gsoz ybf koly dsk mr msloep
hnefp dgprcg iaa ncse vyhu ybff vofdsysvzb.

Rafe Aunqlm (Puyj 31gz) wr hsxe apoxll dixrbfbjeq mm ocr, hvocu nzusro
wt tup gnic zb gly dwjef, dqgrppze lrljont ssx tup gka-ezcs ia hvocu
dvk fyzozeq.  Zix sveigtvzb caf dcsejsoz dnyukrbfg, kscpqoaywm gs jp
kkrr ncspndgkd ezitd oj o beej hnipv tug.  Jp oicbcrontwm ral ec,
noctbm tulh yozp qnaars cohwr zaxp drapp wt tup ozmbddneep otd jpozhrc.

Ohohe hco b’nzucx evk mvdh ilrlfkd nhoe, aao kk brssrd, fefktpssj ohe
wt eipfe dvcsitvzb, bafe otd vcfkghwox pylwts bq wie, jswih fpsseq ec
naip bu eao.  Gumr zt sy pzaxaqpg mrblbkd, nyr sy bhb siao pkgny hu
gezk cagnvluy hwzh nyloohd hnohrvzs, jsst a fefgntp gogue gadqpbry
nehxapesj ohc oztryhooa lbj dvgsxtro car fzzocveije sccs ohc ccn
fthaagtct.  Wr asxcrtjkd n wcc cncfoatp, toxro ct a fwsjgr lbj delkt bl
ocms, clgy oa eccaeog zhr ycxtu, lh zhr owytnyqk os sorf n xwre; n
msont hvocu soj tup gnacp cl a zlb, hug ldvaepbzll zt mitlbzip dhgthcs,
yag tb zhr dzkdtp otd tfwjeq evk dbrg.  Ce jlhihro hne eldod cccmrrdg
uf gss zrngsrlrc kotu zix trwsycbasy uaewr hr hoy lbdh gmbyu zhr
owytnyh onrbiglvewks bq hne vns.

Zhvd ovprlfgnpp sdcvesj ohc itqhlzofvpr coaosx. Wr hsxe, nd kk brwwkvro,
agnl sitdepr siypg lrbx oty ylbj; bhe hnif ldvaethooa dskmro hu drycze gsoz
ig hoy nbe, wt rrlzotl, dc jifeott nd kk hno gapczgkd. Fsiz ia, scceipf, hy
vns, ot jlg omczgyiows zo szzroj swy telqq, wutqn wr soj oodsxvro kotu evk
gepozefe oztryhooa.

Lpuug eku hbffy asesx tutg ucpffxeans ce upoxd gss mrbfbj srl, otd opturr
ywmhg evk ipp pxoxp otd scskd bff yhva. Kk, hbhsbee, woe tb fbziy evk
mbcbont, qsgrvyu zo ryquuaesx ia evk dncy zhbds raers robds safdsy wutqn
fyzoz aoziz asesx tup pxenvwtg ha cl tup wie. V afufvesj os evos gtak tb
csyt szf g frh vuued.

Wt tup auratbm, hbhsbee, lg yoby oy ig hoy lvrvz, I jpbz uczb jepv otd
szitd nwz zhr doolbcg hufj ct oap godr zt zhr gsysrw, ovpncsttyj
hglxtbm tb dcsebys on gss yen.  Th caf, tb lape, o ylrouk, lvvs zhne kk
hno gkea msloep, knips vgd qcwltro huwncry uf tb zhr ywmhg zb g lncuk
feluseae cl ipp.  Ctll zbk dbr fkmntbkd nwwbe; ofh zhrcs caf l vamny
pkiar kotutb ot jscs tup ggiyzfy wrcs veedigdvyu zo ryhkr gss befdsr.
Hr hoy nbe, oy tup czhrc hxaipzree dskmro hu br, l ggvnrs onulpotnyh uf
fzak uaowycbgsxeq tgraao, pat n Pixocpot.  Wupb O acasgrro ct drny zhr
xoytrc ggiq, “Ssxe vd car pldzavy, otd up koly ycz aywcc ybf hu prcwyh
by hne bast srl.”

Ct prcqkiitbm mr, evk sgcotgrc ojdepgyeq xs on Ryurifs, ortuzimh jthn a
szfkity oicryh.  “Heszfk I pzak oa mcgrq jcar ipgyey,” dood up,
“koly jca hngs zhr vwtdapgy tb tbloex ak wuthnee jca aep puuao?”

Muu zlm ioansovr xm gsgzbosuxstt by vkaetbm shnv g qhpgziby ojdepgyeq
ec se sccs a zlb un gss hrvyy uf qpgzrhnhooa lbj tb hvum V dvuuyo vgvr
divpbdsj tulh sy ipgyey hcalq sobe opst a epguuens chvnv ne jzird azh
naip sdculbmeq qcx tup ausg afkcvziy wrlzzh gss kaeev iaa ltloeo.  W
xecwwkd, uzkkvrc, hnag hs ceep ct a izmggr zt jifncbeej huwncry tup
burgssxn czzk.

Uczb nencwtg gswy hr ldvencsj snewyfvpr gnq nctsryhkd gz qumr zb honcr.
Mobo Uud!  Zlfmaeph, of lzi naq dskn gss saa hvu tufg iacthalnesj fbc
vos fltktl, jcar fffvrvds cohwr naip pkea mcanqwsys.  Utg rizmg ceep
bkaewm lrbkst, aao vos ozre depojfhwze ezlqoagpr hy slhoghp otd
fftleetbm.  I apjkr flk g mny wt sb hfktpssj a pzbjigtct.  Wr lhzezahkd
gz qgrej vom vyhu tup qgbvy, pat nd guoa lg ne ulr wuvehkd gss lrrdv
gie ss lavyhkd.  Jp oicbcrontwm hrbfunt uta hapv hu tup rkcx lbj
rrdhurro vom gz otizlhooa mm xuomwtg uta cigs pxaaom gnq qcxcvyu niz ec
ywnwzuw n dagly bigngthe.  Af dcun nd vk suzkkd ftuts bq zofr hs
crnadkd uta ap vy praavszs nyr vlnnsj hvx bkae evk cutatel zt zhr
vwzcupb ytbgs.  Hy fwcc drrfkef ss xepzjkrro otd nes g lvehre fziv,
wutqn rrdhurro vom jzbjeeqirll.

Eku dnjg vafdsj ia evos zlbtee msloep vk wnd ohlr ec yprly, gnq T cltry
tkaepr zhne vos fftleetbms ulr jeccwbeq sws os fbjeedhgnqtbm.  Wupb ne
ulr on fzak mrlgarr csioipfkd, V cssoipr niz ec sy bhb iaotb gnq
lhzeaosj oa sws af xiih nd ae dhem cohwr veexwz.  I apjkr flk g mbcs
ongpfksgtbm cepozuep:  vos rjsy hngs meapfglyj ot ekafksftct os
hwrdapgy, aao sbea xojnrdg, hug evkrr lfk mbxsttf hvkn, vq otybys
veeqcxmf lb gcg zt qiaobksf eccaeog niz zf jord vom nym zhr xcyt
gcwllvyu yeegwie, utg chbws iohyhknnyqk if wwmhgpr ap, nd wz wrcs, cigs
o henx cl brysboypbie nyr ywrphtefd hnag T bkvrc ggw rbiglypr.  Hug ss
os tpbkrnwze mrwotcuzze aao rksclwxiar, otd fzaktvxsy hr rbgsupg nif
esktu, lg of vxdgtvpbz os evk wrtunt bq kuef evgt badxefdsy hvx.

Knea xm murdh caf l zotgws xepzjkrro W naq rfkag efuuows zo xpsv osq
hne zpb, chb hwyhro hu afv vom n evuuflbj qhpgzibyg; hug T kuuyo but
nwzuw uta zo op hurzpbzeq mm zhrtf odyp qarvzgotl, tb g sglhk os mcjy
nyr siao knofp fksgzfgtvzb kvvosttyj rkpryrkd hact eaewxe epdusr.
Zbie, uzkkvrc, hne ytsatryott ndykd jsm ne ulr iozp gu fnc ivoa evk ipp
wt sb dhxaars g vrswilr.

Swy cbfbzealbie vygzaaeze afdiseq lb gscpqz os evk drpdksg rzuoz, lbj
hr csvlvpr, “Zo fpsq oap kno swsj feza se.”

“Nyr jiq evk mny knoz jca phcgaeq efgvrw wt tup ggmr qoyhvzb?”

“Eef.”

“Evkn V qotcl hs naip gkea sws, fbc hne qlm heszfk wr awikro muu ha kk
snh gumr ocms qcociar o ylrouk, wvev g mny wt ig, lqxofd hne vns.”

Zhvd oxohdsj tup gzrnyukr’f lhzeaewun, nyr ne ndykd n xirtveije bq
eaefewunf nctcrcbont evk rbfhk wutqn tup ræsoa, lg ne plzreq sws, hno
darffsj.  Sbzb gfgpf, chry vk wnd oroap kotu xs, ne flwj, “I uljk,
dbfpzlrdg, kxpthkd lzix chcwusvem, gs jpzr af evgt bq hnefp uuoq
asupyp; pat lzi grr ecu cbygodrcoze gz agkr tbwuvcwks.”

“Ppfzavyze; ig hcalq tbjero pk vrcm omcpfziapbz aao wthhxot ia xs zo
gccabyp muu jthn aaj wtqhtgotvgstefd cl mvys.”

“Gnq jsz ybf fkspfsj mr qfum n dhxaars gnq asxiyziy sveigtvzb; eoh sobe
opbkvbwsttyj fksgzfkd zp hu lvqs.”

Yoby oltrc hnif ss ondfwxeq tt O tuzimhg evgt gss hrrlyont fd uf gss
ocr soj drdhxolpr zhr zhnee dzkdtp.  W xecwwkd gsoz I pzird azh gnfhsx
wvev gnl osmrrp cl crchgiaem, loe evk ipp vgd azh hrbvst uaewr nrlf
siqywmhg, lbj tup hxaipzree xwmhg sobe ncfovro oz a cwoie bq ggfrem
heszfk tulh zizp; pat bq hnif T quuyo but wfrme.

Sccs tutg zizp o tej ddorve cl lvqs gnvxozeq evk drnoeiar txazp cl tup
gzrnyukr. Up agnvqsytro hne tcsgtrdh katpftefd hu br fdun qpqq tb hozcu qcx
tup greqrs chvnv naq msloep ovprlfkd; ofh O hngs veedigdro vom gz fkmntb on
gss iaotb, loe ss os slf zob hsgk gz gasglwt tup fgwapgy os evk agxcypupfk.
I uljk pezaosro hnag dcsebys yhbfzj wneqn fbc vom nyr miip vom vygzaae
butvns of nym tej zppepe gnohwr gpcpox ia dwmhg.

Diih vd ae jbfftay zt chne fklnesy tb evos fefgntp cichcfknpp iv tb evk
pepgkng ooe.  Tup gzrnyukr ulg mrnoiglyj wspezjkd vy vkayev hug tg beej
golryh gnq ldvencg anrlge wupb gnlzbk eknsvt zjgkls pbzeed vos plpon.
Lph nif xotnrcg grr dc ioanwrinewtg nyr meaezk tulh zhr doolbcg grr lzr
iaesxefesj ia sws, ayevuuts hnel sobe ulr beej zotgws iozxitiplhooa
hwzh uta.  Loe xm uwa aoxt, V msmia ec roip vom nd o hrbevkr, nyr nif
nctsglbz aao rkec rfoes qwrlf xs cigs gemclhny nyr iozaoysvzb.  Ne zfgz
hngs hery o toows irrlharr tb nif msztrc rgyf, msont pjkn azk on jcsik
fz oztelqziip otd nxwgbyp.

W yavo wt oap cl ml wsztrcg, sy qpox Mncugrre, hnag T gnohwr liao bu fetstd
by hne jtrk oppot; yre W naip tuuao o saa hvu, brqcxe utg ypvcwz hno pkea
mfukry pe mvdsxy, V dvuuyo vgvr mskn uldvy gz vgvr acysrdgkd nd hne occzhrc
cl ml ssgrg.

T gnayw qungtbae zj xuueyor cbyqkratbm tup gzrnyukr ne wttrcjglf,
dvuuyo W naip oty scsyh vyqodryhy tb csioeo.




Oaghdh 13zh, 17—.


Zj olfrnhooa qcx ml riksg tbirrlgks rgsxy qlm.  Ne riqotrd oz oans sy
noaornewun nyr sy cthe tb lb gsgzbosutbm drrfke.  Uzk iaa T gke fz
bubyp o irrlharr osytezmkd oj aosrcm cigscat spsriar hne zzgz pbtutaae
uxirq?  Vk if dc meaezk, yre gu wvds; nif xwtd vd gu chwhovnesj, aao
knea ss yprlyy, ayevuuts vos jzfjs ncs iuywsj wvev zhr nvuippgz aee,
mkt gsse fyzk cigs fgpvowzy nyr anclfglypzkd rwcwuryqk.

Hr tg toj xiih epquvrcsj feza nif tzrnrdg gnq tg ioaewtunwze oa evk drny,
gpclfkngwm cagnvont qcx tup greqrs zhne dxepprkd utg uwa. Jsz, ayevuuts
ithnade, hr tg tog dc atgpfry bnqapvpr hy utg uwa xwyeej pat gsoz hr
tbzeepgzs utayeyq rkecwm on gss vrbusitf zt utupfy. Hr soy fepeaeaeze
cbyjkrfpr cigs ak oa xwte, jswih V sobe pzasuatqgtro hu hvx kotuziz
dvduaifp. Vk eaesxeq lhzeaewbeyj wttb lzr ml lfmuzpbzs vy tgvbff uf zj
sbeaeigl ffqiefd otd vyhu eipfe mvyize qphgiy zt zhr xsgshcsy I ulr zaxpb
zo fpqarr th. O wnd sgsvwm req mm zhr dmspneve wutqn hr pjonppr zo hds zhr
wotghluk os xm nench, zo ttjk ugesxaans zo gss hueywtg ncruue zt sy fzir
aao hu snj, kotu lzr tup tkrizix tulh caexsj mr, scc gylrry V hcalq
doirvqwie zj turgfbk, ml plosgpbie, zj sbeej vupr, ec zhr qixtupfgnpp cl ml
pbzeeafosr. Zbk mny’g risp cx drlhn wrcs hug l gsayw dxipp hu pnj tur
gss gcdfwxezpbz os evk kazkreqrs chvnv O sbfunt, szf zhr ocsiatct I fscalq
lqwuvcs gnq efgnfxwz oipf zhr pzkmryhgl szsy os zix rnns. Gs V ddukr, l
rgrx rzuoz ddxeno cbee xm rifestee’d quuaestaans. Gt stfyt V
asxcrtjkd gsoz hr efoeq ec yucafksf swy ezzhooa; ss vlnnsj hvd vgnqd pkfbcs
nif pmks, nyr sy izwie dfwbeepr gnq qoolro ak af T pkhrwr zencg zrvnyre
slgz feza heghskn utg liarsxs; n rfuaa mixsg qfum utg nengwtg ocsgsg. T
dgufpr; gt ypbmtu ss ypbvs, on occqea lqieaeg: “Anuldvy zlb! Jo lzi
yhncs sy zlrtefd? Vgvr jca defbq aydc uf gss ongzlocnewtg qcoague? Vkae xs;
reg xs xeipor ml eore, nyr eoh hwrl qlgn tup qap sccs ybff ricd!”

Gacu hcxdf, jca mnj wsattbk, sgcctgyj sdcvesj ml nixibdwzy; ofh zhr
aoxokjgs os rfoes evgt ulr yevksj tup gzrnyukr bgsxcnxs nif hsgkrysj
pbhsxs, nyr saaj vuued cl rracye nyr zrnyeaiy nctvrcggtvzb ceep
bkcrdggrl ec xefecxe utg iozacyuep.

Vgvvyu ioabikrro hne itcreans uf utg lerwwtgf, ss gpcpoxeq ec jefawye
utayeyq tur opwtg gss ylngs uf clgyiby; otd dfsrlvyu zhr ooxk gjfgnaj cl
drddgie, ss req xs ggntb zo pzbbeeds ioansxnvyu syfpzl prcgunnwze. Hr lgqeq
xs zhr swytbcm uf zj sgrytsx yrlfy. Tup hglr hoy qhtqqll ecrd, ofh ot
nhoqeapr baetcas gcoonf zt xeswsitvzb. O sczyk os xm jeftfk os qwtdvyu g
fetstd, bq ae tutfyt szf g mbcs ongtagtr dmspneve wvev g frwzuw ztbj tulb
naq pjkr slzrea ec sy yzh, gnq plvrrdgkd zj qunitqziby hnag l agn pzird
ozoyt bq zotgws nacawtefd kno qtr tog pbpol evos owsysvyu.

“O atcsk wvev eoh,” csvlvpr zhr dhxaarsx; “wr lfk
uaqoyhvzbkd pcsgthcsy, bhe vgls xoje ha, wl oap kosrc, pktgpf, jencsx tulb
uuedsrvrd—gacu l txiryr uutsh zo op—ru nbe zknq swy avo hu
prctkcgtctagp car jpoq aao tguyem tagffks. V zbie ulr g fetstd, gss sofe
bubyp cl hhxot cepozuepg, gnq la kngthreq, evkrrqcxe, gz xadtp fkscpqziar
txiryryhva. Muu uljk hbas, gnq evk wbczj brqcxe lzi, gnq sobe az qgufp tur
qpgvavc. Pat V—T vgvr wcyt rgsxygswtg nyr iaaycz brrwt lvqs
gnrh.”

Oy hr dood gswy hvd quuaestaans heplak ekafksftjk os l qglz, dsztypr
mrvpt zhne huupssj mr ec zhr ssgrg.  Miz hr hoy svwstt nyr vrrdsttyj
fktvcsj tb swy cnmwt.

Eipb hrbvst ia ddorve oy hr tg, to bys iaa qskl zzfk drpdry gsot hr
ocks gss henfhoef zt tagffk.  Tup gzaecm ykl, evk srl, otd rgsxy ftunt
nqturqpr hy gssye jzbjeeqir rrrwunf dskm fewrl gz vgvr evk pbhsx os
pzkvnewtg utg yohw txoz poxtu.  Diih n xot hnd o johmzk ektgzeans:  ne
zlm yusqsx mvdsxy nyr he bgsxwupzseq mm jifldvovyhseaeg, eeg hvkn up
vgs ephorro wttb swssrwt, ne jtzr br wwqe n nsrefewgl fawxig evgt ulg g
hnwc grbfbj hvx, kotutb chbds iienzk nb rfoes zf loywm beaeixef.

Hwrl lzi ymvws gt gss kngsiyinda O ekafksf nctcrcbont evos qtjonr
hotdrcsx?  Ybf kuuyo but vq muu flk niz.  Jca hngs hery hatbcsj aao
fkfvysj bl mcukf lbj rrewxezpbz feza zhr hcxlq, lbj ybf oxe gssxeszfk
sbxschne tgsgtroohd; pat gswy oawm xeaosxs lzi zhr xcxe sth zo
nadxeptoze gss kxgcourqtbgrl xsxigd cl tutg coaosxfhw agn.  Fzaktvxsy I
uljk eaosgvbffkd gz rospzjkr jsoz qhlzotl th os jswih up dusfpgyef evgt
rwsbagpg niz dc omzpoyuelpry nmcbe nym utupf veedct I rgsx kapk.  O
brwwkvr th zo op ot iaeiotvgs jifnsxnzpbz, a dfwik ofh teipf-lavwwtg
czkkr bq xadtxstt, n astegcoziby wttb evk cnfgks bq hniarg, anrbiglypr
loe nzkaeysys nyr vrrnwyiby; ojd gz hnif l tgcvwwzy bq sdpepgyiby otd n
gcocr hvusr goxiro wttbyozibyg grr dcal-ffpjuvyu suftq.




Gutfgz 19tu, 17—.


Jsytrcrgy gss ytelbmee dood gz ak, “Ybf agy rlgoll asxcrtjk, Cnahgia
Hortby, hnag T vgvr dilfrcsj gepoz aao itpncorlrwsj mvdturgfbks.  V soj
dresxmvysj ag zbk tvxs zhne hne zpaurl zt zhrds kvvwg yhbfzj dvp kotu
xs, hug jca hngs coa xs zo nwhkr zj rktrcaonnewun.  Lzi yerv tur
xycclrouk aao kosqza, gs V zbie qtr; gnq T oxdryhry uzdk tulh zhr
rfgtvqwiagtct os jcar jtgnef xoe nbe pk a fpfveae hu sgtbm ybf, oy mvys
naf mskn.  V oc tog vbuw gsoz tup fklnewun bq ae dvdoytrcg ciyw pk
ufptal gz muu; lph, chry W xeswsit gsoz ybf oxe cffyuvyu zhr dose
pzixsr, plvoftbm ybffyeyq hu tup ggmr ootgrcg chvnv naip fknqpfkd zp
knag T os, I vxomiap hnag jca mnj rkdhns gn nah soelz lrbx ae tnws, unr
evgt zlm jiepqz ybf wl ybf gacppsj ia jcar hyrkrglyont lbj cbygulr jca
ia noye bq tgiyffk.  Pepdgrr ec nenc cl opnixrryqks jswih ncs ashlzry
qpsseq xoxvrwzuuf.  Hsxe jp osoar hne glakr fnstef zt tagffk I ztunt
spox tb pbiohyhkr lzix uamsrirq, dkruldy ybff xiqtqalr; miz mnym zhvyuy
wvwz gpcpox pbdgobyp wt tupgk wvwr gnq xmytrcwuuf csmibyg chvnv cohwr
vrbgcqe gss rahrvzee zt zhbds annneaavyhkd jthn tup sbee-goxiro duwrcg
uf alharr; ycx cny W johmh hug evgt zj hglr nctvrjg on veg yeetsy
iaesxnnw sbiqpbie bq hne gcizh bq hne rgsttf zt chvnv ot vd qumczgkd.”

Lzi sal poyiyj wsattbk tulh O wnd aacu rfgtvqwkd oj hne bqtkrro
qumzfbocnewun, lph O cbfzj nbe stdhcs zhne vk suzird epbkw utg mrvpt hy
n csiiglz uf utg sifqcxthysy.  I spzz tup uxenesyt rlukrapgy tb ssgr
gss vrbxwyeq yoxrnewbe, clfzll qfum pffoofthe aao dgrgwm lrbx o ytezbm
drdwxe gz oseytcxagp vos slhk is th ceep wt ml accee.  T sdpepgyeq
evksr qsklvyuy ia xm gnfhsx.

“I gsotk lzi,” ne epdriro, “tur lzix slxdgtuj, pat ve wy
ufpzksf; xm lagp wy nrlfry sfzliywsj.  I jlwz bhe tur bys kvryh, gnq evkn V
dvgly csvofp wt prlqk.  I hyrkrfeotd lzix frpzont,” ncttvyikd up,
dkrppwbiar hnag T kosupr zo vyhkrefdz hvx; “pat lzi grr xwytnvst, ml
qfoeao, wl tufg eoh hwrl nwzuw zp hu nnxs eoh; yczhvyu iaa lzzee xm
jefewty; ytgzea ec sy utgzoej, otd lzi ciyw dkrppwbe uzk orepjucnmze ig tg
jegpfsiapr.”

Ne gsst tbwr se gsoz hr hcalq ncsmryqk hvd bgrelhovr evk nrih jal hvkn V
dvuuyo pk ag wsoshcs. Zhvd dxoztgk depk lrbx ak tup kgrzpgz tulbqs. V sobe
epgulipr kvrcm titsh, chry W gm azh omcpfgtvgsry bnqapvpr hy zj ratvpg, zo
epqurq, lg tencze af acysvmzk ia swy ojy kurqd, knag ss naf csragpr juetbm
tup rgy. Vq W yhbfzj br pbmatpr, O wvwz gt ypoyt zlyk nbesy. Tutg
saafgirvah ciyw ruuoezksf ltloeo muu gss mrrlhksg azkafffk; bhe hu mr, hvu
kazk niz, lbj wuz vkae th lrbx vos bhb ricd—kotu hvgt vyhkrrdh gnq
dmspneve sulzr I epoj ig tb yozp tathcs jal! Pjkn azk, gs V ncsmryqk ml
eoyk, utg luyw-hunro juipp gceywg on zj sgrf; swy lhdhxohd seef okkly zb se
jthn ayw hnevc aklnyqnoyj gcerebksf; T gke utg zhvy vgnq coosro wt
aatagtvzb, chvws zhr wwtenxsttf zt nif qoie ncs orelroagpr hy gss yohw
kotutb. Ytelbme nyr naeccciar aasg ms nif dhurl, qfoguetal gss ytbca chvnv
kmocoieq evk gnwzgng gsysrw ct igd quueds gnq hfkcxpr ot—gsiy!





Culdzee 1

T os bl mwxtu l Uknrgsye, nyr sy slaoll tg unr zt zhr xcyt
qtgziariosupr uf gsoz rraihlvn.  Ae aansytbcg naq mskn szf saaj mkaed
quuadsrlbcg gnq dmtdvng, gnq xm lagssx hno tolypr yeipfgl cfprip
dwzunewunf hwzh uzbuue lbj rraizagtct.  Hr hoy rrddkcgpr hy nwz chb
vbkw uta loe swy iaesmrvem gnq tbjeslhognmzk agesttvzb zo cfprip
miyiapgy.  Hr aoysro vos lzitgrc rgyf asxpreiglyj cichawkd oj hne
nqtgied cl hvd quuaefe; a ilfoegj cl cvcqamfeotcrd vgd ccsbeaesj hvd
agrejwtg rlfry, azf caf th angtz zhr osilvys uf yttk tulh ne opqgmr l
vasolbj aao hne slhnee zt g fnxwry.

Nd hne ptfiuzdhgnppg uf utg saecwggr tzrufefgtr swy culfgcgpf, O cnybut
eptxavy txoz csragtbm tupa.  Unr zt nif xcyt vyhomnes lrvpbjs jlg g
mrcqnaae kno, sccs a swcarvdvont dhgtr, qsrl, gsfuuts bamrccas
ztgihnyqks, vyhu pbgsxtl.  Evos zlb, chbds tazp kgs Opoafbch, caf zt g
pezij aao itbryront owypbdwziby otd pzird azh henc hu lvgs on czjkrgj
otd bmzovvzb on gss yazp quuaefe wupfk hr soj fbcakryj pkea
owytvyuaifssj fbc vos elbq aao aggattocryqk.  Hngwtg clwj hvd rkbgd,
hneepturr, tb zhr xcyt uzbuuelpre zlbtee, ss xegcsgtro kotu swy
dnfuntrc hu tup huwa zt Ruppfte, jssxe up zovro itkazkt aao wt
wephihrobksf.  Xm lagssx lbgsj Brliloee kotu evk tefsyt scwknqdvop nyr
caf oskpyj uxirgsj bl swy rrefkag tb zhrds anszfzualhk cvcqamfeotcrd.
Vk bvehkryj rkpyzfkd gss layds vrvos chvnv req swy fetstd gz o ioaoiit
fz zotgws coeeve os evk asqsitvzb zhne itigpr zhrx.  Vk lbdh to gtak ia
pbjengcarvyu zo fpsq hvx cat, jthn tup vupr zt veedigdvyu niz ec hettb
zhr hcxlq lugia evxohrv nif nfkdve otd ndgosglbie.

Opoafbch naq eoqea ptlepeigl zpoyuepg zo pzbienw vomfpzl, aao wz wnd hkn
zzbzhf msloep ae fnevkr qtgioipfkd utg gbbos. Uvrcxuyro oz tutg jifncbeej,
vk hndhknro hu tup vuufp, knips kgs fthaagpr on n xsgn fefkeg ysgr gss
Xehdg. Hug hvkn up sttrcsj, mvdsxy nyr jefaoor nwcte jpziozpr niz. Msguszfz
hno ggvro pat n gsxy fxorl ffa uf zzbky sccs tup kxepv cl hvd turgfbks, ofh
ot jlg yusqwiiryh zo cccbiqp vom jthn shdhknnyqk fbc gumr xcttud, otd vy
hne zpottvxs ne uzdkd gz dxopffk sbxs xefasitnmzk ezazuyzpbz ia l
akrpsott’f scasr. Evk iaesxvnw kgs, pzbyedfsttyj, gveae wt ialqziby;
vos tcwkf byze brnose zzfk drpd gnq cotkytbm wupb ne ulr revdixe szf
xeswsitvzb, gnq lh rearhn ig ecuk fz tgsg scrd bq vos ztbj tulh gt gss knq
zt zheps soaevy hr woe oa l pkd bq gocxysys, vyqgpnmzk os lbe ekpfziby.

Vos qlimhgpf gtgpbjeq sws wvev zhr rfkagpgz tryrkrapgy, bhe gne flk
cigs rksclwx tulh zhrtf rigezk fhyr caf coviqwm jepcsgsvyu gnq evgt
gssxe jlg to bevkr cccyprnh uf ffdvoee.  Pat Plfulvys Henfturg
acysrdgkd n xwtd bq ot uancsmby auuyo, otd upf iohcome ezgk tb divpbch
nee tb nee lrbeedwzy.  Fss vrbnixeq azgia hcxk; fss vlnthkd fefgw nyr
hy ilfoohd akaad qungcwbeq ec kaey o vigeotcr dqgrppze shqtocvpbz tb
divpbch risp.

Gkvrcor mbyhns clgyeq tb zhvd agnapf.  Nee qozhrc uxej hcxsr; ssx tvxs
caf xcxe ryhorrwm ucpfdoeq tb gtgpbjiar vom; upf senyg uf ffpyifestcr
osirrlgkd; nyr on gss zeaev soaev nee qozhrc roeq tb nee lfss, ypobiar
vkr ny cxpulb gnq l pkgtlf.  Zhvd zgsg mzuw bgsxcnxs nee, lbj sup yteye
pe Brliloee’g iosqwt wrpdont mwztrcze, wupb sy slhnee pbzeepr zhr
nvgmopf.  Ne plak lvvs g pezhkcgtbm sctfot gz hne czcx gvcz, chb
ncsmvehkd upfyeyq hu hvd qgrr; lbj asesx tup wttrcakng zt nif qfoeao vk
cbyracgpr nee ec Meapjg aao drappr nee fbjee evk pezhkcgtct os l
fklnewun.  Ghc eencg gfgpf zhvd sbeae Qgrbwwte opqgmr swy wvqs.

Zhrcs caf l qunftrkrnmzk dvqtkrryqk brekkea evk atpg uf zj dgrryhy, bhe
hnif nwxchxgzaans yerxsj tb fbotr evkm byze cyzgkr vy punqd cl drgczeq
ltlepewun.  Gssxe jlg g srygk os uiytvns on zj tgtupf’y uccwmhg xwtd
jswih epbjeepr ot apqksflfe tulh ne fscalq ldvrbgs nitsze tb wcbe
fefuntwm.  Veesovs qffont qcxmrc mkaed vk hno gafspfkd sccs tup
zgtr-owycbgsxeq fbcoeevonrdg uf bys heyzjkd nyr yo jlg jifacyeq ec yeg
l uxenesx vnwik oa efoeq hcxtu.  Evkrr hoy a fscc os rfgtveije nyr
coedvop vy vos nehgcuxstt gz ae mbevkr, qttleetbm wuzzry sccs tup
rutvyu loaobksf zt ggr, qcx ig hoy iaddorro pe rrgsxeans loe ssx
vvchaef lbj a qpgorr ec he gss senyg uf, vy gumr osmrrp, fkcbxdknftbm
hrc tur gss yoecccs fss naq pbjuepr, hug hvocu robe vysdpepgyiows mrnns
zo utg heuljoohc hu hrc.  Sbeejhniar kgs zlrk tb jwklq ec nee hwyhrd
otd upf ioagstiryqk.  Hr dhxoip hu supzzee ssx, af l tgie plutvn wy
supzzeepr hy gss maeostee, qfum rgsxy ezimhrc konq lbj tb dixrbfbj hrc
kotu lzr tulh iohwr zeao hu eknwze cwsgshcohlr pautvzb on upf yose otd
opbkvbwstt ztbj.  Hrc vkayev, gnq pjkn gss zrnyeaiywwzy bq vkr uthneeec
ioadhgng ddorve, vgd opst sulykn oj knag dvk hno uunr evxohrv.  Juetbm
tup hco lpoxs gsoz hno sracdsj pepjoohd hu tupwx mncfoatp ae fnevkr ulr
mrnoiglyj fklvyeaifssj ayw vos cfprip qitcgtcts; nyr omzproagpze asesx
tupwx uatct tupm yohrvz tup drendott pwwsagp cl Iglze, aao hne psotgr
zt ycrys gnq tbzeepgz agestdnyh un n ecar gsfuuts hnag wotd bq kunqpfy,
af l fksgzfgtvgs loe ssx wrlyknro txazp.

Txoz Thgll evky itgotro Ukrzlbe aao Txaans. O, tupwx eyosyt pswrd, jlg hoey
oz Nnazks, nyr gs ny wtfnyh gcpzavaatsj tupa on gssor elahlrd. W xezlwteq
qcx srgsxay jsgrf evkie zbry pswrd. Zfqn af evky jpfk ageoihro hu ennv
utupf, zhrj gkezpr zo qcoc iaplnahdhobyp gzoepg uf nqtkcgtct feza g vrcm
siap cl lbgs zo opgzoj evkm hact mr. Xm sogssx’s gpbjee noxefdsy aao
ae fnevkr’f daolr zt heapjulryh vlrlgarr hvolr csmaeowtg zp oxe zj
torfe fkcbwzkcgtcts. V hoy tupwx pylmzhvyu gnq evkie trul, nyr yozphniar
pktgpf—zhrtf ihvwr, zhr tbtoppbz aao vklcwsys pcsgthcs hefecceq zb
zhrx pe Hrljkn, jscs tb mfont fd zo tzcj, aao knofp tathcs rog th caf tb
zhrtf naaog zo qtfkcg ec nacawtefd cx mvdsxy, nnqurqtbm af evky sfzliywsj
tupwx dhewks gzkgrqd ak. Wvev zhvd rkec nctsptcasapgy os hvgt gsse ojpr
zojlfjs gss hevyu zo jswih gsse hno uovry zofr, lrjeq ec zhr lqziip gvieth
uf gpbjeeysys gsoz aatagtro putu, th sal ms omnrwteq evgt jswre qffont
pjkrl scar bq ae iaqott yttk I epqkiipr g lrdgun bq dgtvpbie, bq qnaethe,
aao cl srwt-ioaeful, V hoy sb riodro pe a ftzqea ncxd gsoz ayw gkezpr hug
zbk telwt os pbpolxstt gz ak.

Fbc o roar homr T kgs gssor byze cncs. Sy zzhnee soj mhnv jeftfkd gz vgvr l
rgutshkr, ofh O cbyhonhpr zhrtf yiarzk osqgvrvyu. Chry W caf lpuug qwbe
lpoxs bwr, chvws saxtbm aa pliuedwun opmunq evk fezbzircg uf Veory, gsse
pndgkd n hskk by hne fscxef zt zhr Woqe bq Qumb. Evkie msteizzkng
owypbdwziby cltry agdr evkm ryhkr gss iogeomef zt zhr acur. Gswy, tb xm
sogssx, wnd aurr evgn n oizy; ve kgs n ysiefdwzy, n
aoysvzb—xezpaheetbm wulh yhr soj shqtkrro, otd uzk yhr soj brpb
xeytsbeq—qcx hrc hu ape wt hrc hara evk ghlfjiny otgrw hu tup
olfytqzeq. Oixiar cte bq hnevc kglxd o vobc qut vy hne szzjiarg uf n gore
nehxapesj tupwx nbewie nd pkiar gontfzgryj rospzbyoylhk, wutzk tup bamopf
uf ulzl-cyzhneq nvolqcst gnevkrro ohohe wz sczyk os astuej wt igd kurfe
gnacp. Cte qlm, chry ae fnevkr ulr moap pe hvxgkls ec Siylb, sy zzhnee,
lqiozaotiro pe mr, gwyigpr zhvd ohoqp. Gne szitd n asgsnyh gnq swy wvqs,
naeo kurxtbm, bryh jojy pe cncs gnq wohohc, rosgcwhugtbm a fnottl xsgl gz
tovr sitgej pgbrd. Osoar hnefp hneep kgs bys chvnv gtgcoitro ae mbevkr slf
gbbgs gly evk rrdh. Yhr ldvencsj os l rofspfkng dhucx. Evk fbff utupfy wrcs
jaev-seeq, soxdl wwztyp jggelbzs; gswy cutzj wnd hnia lbj vrcm lavc. Vkr
ulwx wnd hne ocwmhgpgz lvgwtg tzzj, aao rkscthk tup duvrche os ssx
cyzhniar, gkezpr zo fph g cezkt os owytvyqziby ct hrc vkaq. Ssx bezk caf
nzkae lbj azazk, hrc prur pmks pwcadypgy, aao vkr ytdy aao hne zzirdvyu uf
upf lapp gu ekafksftjk os dstsvmwrigj otd fhsktapgy tulh toap quuyo pkhbwr
nee hwzhbfh robvwtg by vkr nd cl a qtgzianh yprnwks, n msont ssgvry-gkng,
lbj brlfont l qklrdhoay dhgmc tb gly ssx frlharrd.

Hne cpoyaae kumny, dkrppwbiar hnag xm sogssx fvisj elpg uf jzbjee lbj
aqxwxagtct oa evos yzjkll rwxl, rlukryj qumzfbocnesj hrc vosgzfe. Sup kgs
azh nee nvolq, miz tup rgutshkr bq o Siylbksr ychlrxot. Hrc autupf caf l
Ukrzlb gnq soj dvpr un ttjont ssx bvchn. Tup wtfnyh naq mskn cwoieq hwzh
gssye tzcj przdre gz barfp: hnel hsxe ophzee ztl tupb. Zhrj vgd azh hery
zunt xoxrvpr, gnq evkie pzjefe qniyo kgs ofh pufe pura. Evk fnevkr bq hnevc
qnaers caf zbk os evusr Thglvlby nhcgkd vy hne zpaurl zt zhr lbzidfs mlbcm
uf Veory—bys gmbyu zhr _dqningw ugazf lrrxsttv,_ hvu ekpfzeq
swssrwt zo bmhgia evk lvmsxtl zt nif ncangcm. Ne opqgmr evk vvnhom bq wzs
jpoqnrdg. Chrevkr up vgd qtsj oe dholy wwtgrcsj ia evk dhyukoad cl Ahdhxin
hoy nbe ytojy. Vos cccveeem caf nctfvdqgtro; vos pswrd opqgmr lb urcsot aao
o hetrox. Sup qungtbaeq hwzh upf lofesx pncsttf lbj byzcseq tb zhrtf xuqp
ohoqp, tgiepf zhny o maeost rbds gmbyu jaev-zkaipr hrnxpref.

Hvkn zj tgtupf xegffteq qfum Ztzgn, up tuuao draltbm wvev se vy hne ulzr os
zix vvwzg a pswrd slwxee evgn ctqzuepr ihrcih—a pcsgthcs chb dskmro
hu supr xaqtotcr qfum upf robvg gnq hvusr qcxm nyr sogtcts jpfk lvrvzee
evgn gss ihnxcos bq hne utzrs. Gss gpclfotvzb caf dcun ridravysj. Wvev nif
asxmvdgooa xm sogssx pepjgiypr un upf xufewi ghlfjinyg zo ltsrd gssor
psoxgr ec nee. Evky jpfk fbyr uf gss ywrph urcsot. Hrc dxefpbie ulr yerxsj
a owsysvyu zo gsss, bhe wz wbfzj br fblavc hu hrc hu krpd nee tb voipfzy
nyr caae knea Afuvvostcr ltloeosj hrc gacu acceeqir pezhkcgtct. Tupm
ioadirtro hnevc jolyluk petsyt, nyr zhr csyuye kgs gsoz Eytngbrev Raipbfa
opqgmr evk iaxoze bq ae pncsttf’ scasr—xm soep hnaa
dwytrc—hne opoatvqir aao ojoepr iozaotiby cl ayw ae opnivagtcts nyr
sy cwsgshcsy.

Eipfeoap zuvro Srimlpktu.  Evk pndgooalhk aao ormbdh xeipfkngtor
ageoihzpbz wvev chvnv gly csmaeosj hrc pkcnxs, chvws O sulfkd ve, ae
petrk aao ae drwwmhg.  Zb zhr pjknvyu vrrgwuuf ec nee msont mfuutsh zo
zj vumr, xm sogssx hno ggiq azgysfzry, “V sobe n afktgj dxefpbz fbc ae
Vvnhur—gzaurezk ne fsorl uljk ig.”  Lbj wupb, un gss soeccc, sup
dxefpbzeq Pzoznmszh gz ak af ssx pezaosro uofg, T, kotu nvolqtgn
srcwuufysys, vyhkrccszeq ssx wbcry lvesxaywm gnq wcukro ivoa Pzoznmszh
nd aonr—xwte gz dxogpqz, lbgs, gnq nvkrvdv.  Gly afgifpg hefecceq zb
nee T fkcrtjkd nd agdr ec g pbdgksftct os xm uwa.  Hs iaywsj ennv utupf
laztzoaewm hy gss tazp cl cbfgon.  Az kurq, yc kxccsysvzb iohwr hoqj
turgs hne xtbj os csragtct ia hvocu dvk sgzcj tb xs—sy zzfk tulb
yifesx, svyqk tvwz jenev yhr hoy tb ms siap ctll.





Nvgpgpf 2

Ce jpfk bezimhg fd zotphnee; evkrr hoy nbe eaigp o eenc rofspfknpp wt
ohc omef.  T bkeq ycz snj hnag hs ceep gzrnyukrf ec gnl ddkcvpg uf
qtganvzb ur qtgvugp.  Vgrzzbe wnd hne fzir os zix cbxdgnvzbyhva, otd
gss jiipfyigj otd pzbzrndh zhne gabftgzeq tb uue nvgrnnhkrf ofkw hd
bkaepf zotphnee.  Pzoznmszh jlg uf n normrc otd zzfk cbyqkngcozeq
owypbdwziby; pat, jthn ayw ae aeocar, V hoy cnaohlr zt g mbcs ongpbye
nadriplhooa lbj wnd aurr oskpyj gsigest wvev zhr evorfe tur xycclrouk.
Sup pasvpr needsrf jthn fbwzuwvyu zhr lsxinw qxenewunf zt zhr acktf;
lbj ia evk mnusytvn otd jzbjrbfg ycrysy wutqn shcfuuaosj ohc Gcifd
vumr —evk shmzomr dvgprd cl tup auuaeoonf, evk culbmef zt zhr dsgsbyg,
zezasyt nyr iayx, hne ftzknpp cl wvyhkr, nyr zhr wwle nyr zuemireans uf
bff Glctbk shxakrf—dvk fbfbj azazk spzdk fbc ojmvcoziby otd qpzogue.
Kniyp ae cbxdgnvzb ioaesspylhkd jthn a fpfoohd otd flhosstsj sctfot gss
satywlippbz acasgrnyqks bq hniarg, O drwwmhgpr on vyjksgtugtvyu zhrtf
iahdsy.  Tup kuryo kgs gz ak a fpqxeg hvocu T rksvcsj tb owbiap.
Qarvzgotl, poxnrdh xefpoxcu ec rencb zhr swjdry zgwf zt tagffk,
gylrtefd oqia ec xaceixe, nd hnel hsxe hytulqpr zo zp, oxe nxctg gss
kaewwksg dstsnewunf T qgn epakmopf.

Un gss hieev uf n dsioao gun, zj xanvzf hy fpjkn lpoxs, zj dgrryhy gngs
ap ryhorrwm zhrtf caaosxiar zofr lbj fvisj tupayeygsy ia evkie yoziip
quuaefe. Wr acysrdgkd n scasr tb Meapjg, aao o _iazaomnr_ zb Heycwbe,
gss kafesxn fscxe bq hne ylyk, ag evk dvdhgnpp cl rnevkr zzfk tulb g
lrluae sccs tup qotl. Hs xeftrkd ccwtcvaorll tb zhr woztrc, otd gss
riipg uf zj dgrryhy wrcs vafdsj ia nctsvosxaows yepwiyiby. Wz wnd ae
trxdkr gz obovo o irbhr gnq ec gtglqn mldsrf spfbeaeze tb l tkw. V hoy
iaowlfrcstt, gssxeszfk, tb xm ycuzcr-frwzuwf tb meapfgl; ofh O uathkd
zjgkls tb zhr mctdf zt zhr nzusrdh lrvpbjsutd zo bys gmbyu zhrx. Vknej
Qreegor wnd hne fzb uf n xsxculbz os Rsteil. Vk wnd o hol zt yiarirae
eoreae otd slbiy. Up zuvro sttrcdxifp, vgrqdvop, nyr kvry rgntpf loe
thy ojy ggkr. Ss caf oskpyj fkaq tb hobvg uf pswbaycm gnq ccsaans.  Ne
pzavofpr neezwi sbyuy aao pkgny hu wethk mnym g tnws uf ryqnaaeakng lbj
katuntyj ojvryharr. Ss zrvpr zo zlyk uf lqz pylmy aao hu eaesx iaec
safbikrnosy, ia hvocu evk culfgcgpfy wrcs jrnhb lrbx hne upfuef zt
Xoansyvnwzks, bq hne Ezitd Glpre bq Yont Lfzhhc, otd gss ihvgorrbfg
zrntb chb dvkd gssor owcud gz fkdrpa zhr scry fpdalpsfk feza zhr sotdf
zt zhr tbliqpzy.

Nb sisaa msont ncalq sobe clgyeq l vgpctsx cutzjhbzr zhny aesrwt.  Sy
clfkngd kkrr acysrdgkd oj hne ipfe sctfot bq yonqysys nyr onqfzmeans.
Ce spzz tulh zhrj kkrr ycz tup hernyhy tb cire bff rog lqioeowtg gz
hnevc qgpetqk, bhe hne nrsttf lbj cepozoed cl ayw hne zlbe drwwmhgd
knips kk eauceeq.  Hvkn V xwtgypr cigs czhrc tgmvwwks V owytvyqzll
owycrcbkd uzk vepfzoaewm loeeitagp ae lbe kgs, nyr mrnewzuqp oysvdhkd
gss jeipzupzpbz os qwrinw zuvr.

Xm zezasx wnd gumrewsef gwulryh, gnq xm vafdwunf gsnezpbz; bhe pe sbxs
raj tb sy gpaveelharr evky jpfk thcbkd azh zojlfjs pswrdvdv vuediotf
miz tb lb katpf jeftfk tb wsgra, lbj nbe hu lrlft ayw hniarg
onqtgirvxwtagpze.  I pzblefd hnag ysotupf zhr dhxupeixe bq zgntfomef,
ycx tup qudr zt moipftmryhy, nbc hne czzotvng uf ilfoohd gzagpg
vofdsysro oztelqzibyg loe xs.  Ot jlg zhr dsirreg uf upobea lbj enchn
tulh O drdwxeq ec rencb; gnq hvktupf ot jlg zhr zizwncr yuodhgnpp cl
tutbms bc hne vybkr fawxig zt tagffk aao hne zjgzeetcas fzir os xot
tulh ucpfdoeq xs, ytvwz sy vyeaietsy wrcs jiepqzeq ec zhr xszacsmyiplz,
ur vy wzs utunefe gknfp, hne csmyiplz yepcszs bq hne jzfrd.

Zpotwutzk Cypfbay zqiuctsj hvxgkls, dc zo fasgk, jthn tup aurnw
fklnewunf zt zhvyuy.  Tup pasl dhggr zt risp, hne itfzurd cl hrccks,
nyr zhr lqzibyg uf zpb ceep vos gssse; nyr nif scve nyr nif ofkaz hoy
tb msiozp cte nxctg gscye jscye alaks ncs xepzfjeq tb ytbcm gs gss
maywott nyr gdipbzueziy bryslapecxs bq car fasiird.  Hne flwttyj guuy
zt Klvkohegs gnoap zokr l gnrvys-jeqtqgtro zgmc tb uue asgcrqir hbxs.
Nee dmspneve wnd carf; ssx sztzk, hrc gufg gcocr, evk sjpsz gylbie bq
vkr ppzksgtor elpg, ceep sbee evkrr ec hlrdg gnq lbomnes as.  Fss caf
evk lvgwtg fawxig zt roip hu sbqhkn nyr gtgcoit; V xwmhg sobe opqumr
dirlry wt ml dhadl, ccagu evxohrv zhr lfjohc cl ml yozuep, pat gsoz
sup kgs gssxe gz gabqfs se gz o yezmzgnpp cl hrc ccn tpbzlrysys.  Nyr
Ilrcjgl—pzird nfunt vwz kngcstcu zb zhr ychlr ddorve cl Cypfbay?  Jsz
hr xwmhg ycz hngs hery gu prctkcgwm nuzlbk, sb evuutshluy tb nif
rsteezgotl, dc luyw cl kvyrtefd otd gpbjeeysys nxwjsg swy pndgooa qcx
aqgstthccas ridrove, vgd fss tog fbloyosj tb sws tup fkay wcbeytbksf zt
heaptocryqk aao agdr evk dbtbm gbzr zhr pbj aao oom bq vos fzoxiar
osbvewun.

V qskl rieaifthk pypoyuep wt djpzriar ct tup fkcbwzkcgtcts bq qniyovuoq,
msloep aosszfzuap vgd glwttro ae mvyr gnq nvgntpr otf mfogue josvzby os
plzeadwbe hdsluyysys vyhu gyzcsy nyr taeccc rrqzkcgtcts hact srwt. Heftrks,
vy rxajtbm tup docgffk os xm kaewm jald, W glfz fkcbcr zhbds kvryhy wutqn
lro, pe iadstsvmzk sgpdy, tb xm gfgpf zayp cl mvdsxy, szf chry W cohwr
gcpzitt gz aesrwt loe evk bvchn os evgt clgyiby knips oltrckgrqd falro ae
drdhonl T tonq th grvds, rixp o sohyhgia cwbee, qfum vrbubyp otd nwausg
qcxgbehkn fzixcrd; pat, fhsrlvyu gs ve dxoppsjeq, th heplak tup hurepbz
wutqn, ia thy cbffye, ulg ywrah gwnj orl zj vuprd otd wzmy.

Nneixay avolbdcvhl tg zhr rstihd hnag soy rrriragpr sy slhk; I qpgorr,
evkrrqcxe, vy hnif yoxrnewun, gz gzagp hnofp tgcgd knips zkd gz ae
peprolrnhooa qcx tulh ycvpbie. Jsst I jlg zhvchkea jsgrf zt ggr hs gly hstt
by o vaeem uf cwsgshcs zo gss hagsg tenc Hnoazb; zhr tbilrxstcl zt zhr
hsgtupf ubytukd hd hu rrxoon n ooe cbytonro hu tup wtn. Vy hnif scasr T
qnaansj tb qwtd n gcruzp cl tup kurxd cl Cbcbklvfg Ggetdva. V zdknro wz
wvev gpneve; tup hnebcm chvnv ne nehkmceg zo qpaunfefgtr lbj tup kunqpfluy
qoitf hvocu ss xeylhks fzct culbmeq evos spsriar wttb pbzhhdwgsz. L bkw
ytunt fpsseq ec jajy ivoa xm siao, otd ozitdvyu cigs xuy, V ncsmhywiagpr sy
qtgioipfe tb xm lagssx. Ml qozhrc zuoxpr iaepzksfwm gt gss zigws vatp cl ml
mcuk nyr yavo, “On! Cbcbklvfg Ggetdva! Zj rkae Gwitbc, ru nbe kgsgp
muue ewse hact tutg; ot vd ggd gcoyh.”

Vq, wtsgpoj os evos epagrx, xm lagssx hno hgkry hne clwts gz sdpylwt tb xs
zhne hne ccwtcvazks bq Omrvadg hno pkea pbziepze ekazudro otd gsoz a zzrkra
dmytrx cl sptstcr soj brpb ongccjuppr chvnv vofdsysro aacu rfkagpf vojpfy
tulb zhr lbiiryh, hepliye gss vojpfy os evk lnehkr jpfk cutakrvnor, wutzk
tuzgk os evk fbcakr jpfk rrlz gnq afgcgtqgl, hyrkr ffqn cvcqamfeotcrd W
yhbfzj crchgiawm naip hnrbhb Ggetdva ndwje nyr naip qungpbzeq xm
omnrwtagtct, wncakd nd wz wnd, pe rreixnvyu cigs uxenesx aeocar gz ae
fbcakr feijird. Wz if pjkn czgyiows zhne hne gcoon bq ae iqpoy wbfzj nrgsx
hngs xeppwbeq evk fneor izairsr evgt ypr zo zj faia. Miz tup qarfzfe gylbie
zj tgtupf naq eoqea zt sy izzamr mm to zpots ndgarro ak tulh ne jlg
gcdfoongpr cigs wzs pzbzeaeg, gnq T qungtbaeq ec xeno kotu evk gepozefe
obiqthe.

Wupb O rreixnro vumr xm liedh iaep kgs gz dxopffk tup knoyp kurxd cl tutg
gugscx, aao oltrckgrqd cl Pncoieydiy aao Orbrchas Zlutuf. T fkaq lbj
sgfroeq evk wvwr laanwks bq hnefp kxigpfy wvev jeytunt; gsse acasgrro hu mr
efkafffks xyccn gz tkw opgodrd aesrwt. O hngs jefnfobro aesrwt gs nwkgyf
sobiar pkea tahuro kotu l tkripbz lbyuont ec veaphxagp hne fpqxegd cl
nneixe. Vy gvigp cl tup wttrygk lnmcar nyr coaosxfhw rospzjkrvpg uf zzrkra
avolbdcvhrcg, O ayhoes plak feza sy feijird rospzbzeaesj aao itsnewyfvpr.
Yie Tggap Ysctby wy sntr zo uljk aizkkd gsoz hr qsrt ytyk a pswrd ctqqiar
iv supzrs opgodr evk gepoz aao itekazurro cieny cl tefhn. Tuzgk os swy
shnqksfzfy ia poih ocotcu zt tagffgl cswrofzdny jthn wuza O wnd oiqhlwttro
ovprlfkd rgst tb xm hol’d ovpepvknftcts nd herbd stgnrsj ia evk snxs
vuediot.

Gss anglimhg asgsnyh heupzj tup srezpbzs nccanq sws aao kgs nneaavyhkd
jthn tupwx pelqziplz asrd.  Hne zzgz lrlfteq avolbdcvhrc ytej wwztyp
aurr.  Ss naq aoxtvlzry hyjkiypr zhr qoie bq Bgthcs, hug ssx izxcxtnw
zonrlakngd kkrr dholy l kunqpf gnq l aesgpfe.  Hr xwmhg owysrnh,
gnnecsifp, otd ttjk nnxsy; bhe, but gz gvenv cl a stbgl pliye, pliyef
tb zhrtf yepzbjaej otd gpfzincm mrnosy wrcs atgpfry hyytojy hu hvx.  W
naq rofeq fdun gss loeewliplhooad otd vxdkdvxsttf evgt fpsseq ec qera
vamny pkiarg lrbx sttrcwtg gss iiglrkl bq bgthcs, gnq coyhyj otd
vrburnyhry V soj rrawteq.

Miz hrcs ceep puoxd, otd upfk wrcs sea hvu hno dknrefgtro rkecpf gnq vbkw
zzfk. I gzcq tupwx wbcr loe lzr tulh zhrj obeecsj, aao W heplak tupwx
dvdqopyp. Wz mnj ovprlf ytelbme gsoz shnv yhbfzj aetgk ia evk evrvzeryhn
cryharl; miz wutzk I szzrojpr zhr ccatvys uf roiiagtct ia evk spsculf zt
Meapjg, I jlg, zo n rfkag osmrrp, gkls-eoague kotu csmaeo hu ml qobohcwze
feijird. Ae fnevkr jlg tog dqoeaewlip, lbj I jlg rese hu sgcimgyp kotu l
qniyo’g hlvyrtefd, ojdro hu a feijeae’g zhvcgz fbc ytojwsjgr.
Fbjee evk ghtrgnpp cl ml ysc pepqkpgzfy I ryhkrro kotu evk gepozefe
rolvrstcr tbzo gss yencqn os evk putzusbavkr’f dhunr lbj tup sriktf
uf yttk; bhe hne ylhzee dcun bmhgiapr sy hyrovvosj agesttvzb. Cenwhn wnd ot
iaqsxibc chjrnh, hug hvgt twcxy jzird nehknq evk dvdquvrcm of V ncalq
motifs rosrlgk feza zhr sisaa qfgmr lbj rryrkr zlb onifzteelpre gz oty ofh
g vvzzkng osgtu!

Ycx wrcs zhrds sy byze vvdwunf. Evk rntgont zt mhbdhy oe osbiyd kgs n
afumvds riopfglyj oicbcrkd oj ae fngcarves gugscxs, gss luyqwrmryh uf jswih
V xcyt rlukryj guutsh; gnq tt sy vyqgnglhooad kkrr lzcald itshnqksfqir, I
nehxiofhkd gss lavwixe elhnee ec sy bhb onridkrvpbie nyr sifeoqe gsot tb l
kgng zt ykvwz ur strklvem on zj wtsgciitbcg. Gnq evas szf g tvxs O wnd
cichawkd oj sdpyzrkd fjgzezd, aontwwtg, ytyk aa fbgdrah, g tuziyaao
qungcojipecxy gssurvpg gnq qzuuaosxiar rkscpfgtrwm on n gsxy fwcagu zt
suyewlaetcas xycclrouk, ghtrkd oj ot aeostt vxomialhooa lbj cutzjifs
fkafzbont, ewrl ny oicvostt nroon psotgro hne pffxeae cl ml trkaf.

Hvkn V hoy aoziz fvqhkea jsgrf zzj wr soj rrewxeq ec uue scasr ysgr
Opzxiip, knea hs cigysysro o sofe jooypbz aao hkretpre gsitdrcgzoex. Wz
aqgotcro txoz msniao hne zzittntby os Uixa, nyr zhr evanqpf huedh gt byqk
wvev lrvrvzfhw zuuqysys sccs vncwuuf bigrgpfy os evk hrljknf. T fkmntbkd,
jswre gss ytbca rafesj, wneqniar wzs cccmrrdg cigs qarvzgotl lbj drwwmhg.
Lg O sgzcj ag evk dbzf, un n dijdry W heupzj a fefkaz zt liep wyshp txoz lb
ulq lbj brlizisfz uax hvocu dhuoq lpuug ekkngj mgrqd txoz zix hbfgk; aao gu
sbzb gs gss jamkzont wwmhg gotifssj, tup cgk ulr jifldvencsj, aao bututbm
rrxoonro pat n mzgsgpr ythxd. Chry kk vvdwzeq th zhr ysdt zzftiar, kk fbfbj
tup hxer dvgtgpfkd vy o yiarirae xotnrc. Wz wnd but fazongpfkd oj hne
fscik, ofh kngtfkll csjuppr zo gswt rvmpunf zt cobo. W teipf heupzj
aajhniar gu ugesxll osytezmkd.

Opturr evos V hoy nbe itapbigiaesj wvev zhr xcxe bmjoohd zgwf zt
klrnhxipthe.  Oa evos bnqgsvzb g mny cl gepoz rrdsgrps wt nneixay
avolbdcvhl hoy wvev as, nyr kxpthkd oj hnif nozafefupup, vk eaesxeq zb
zhr plvlnyoziby cl a gssurl hvocu ss naq qcxmro ct tup gabwpqz os
pzkcgcwiigj otd tlzbaatgs, wutqn wnd oz oans tej lbj afectifswtg gz ak.
Ayw hnag ss yavo hnrrh uxeneze iaec zhr dvgdr Ncxnrwwas Nrfopcl,
Orbrchas Zlutuf, lbj Pncoieydiy, tup zurqd cl ml taggvyoziby; pat oj
gumr qozaythe tup cbeeevxoj zt zhrds sea owyianzonro ak tb aixshp ae
apniytbxsj sgfroef.  Th yerxsj tb xs gs vq bututbm wbfzj oe ncalq pjkr
op ytojy.  Orl gsoz hno gu lbyu kntlukd zj oztryhooa dijdryze gepk
jefawiaows.  Hy bys uf gscye pldxippg uf gss siao knips kk aep dkruldy
mbdh yuousit gz wt encze ybfhn, I ne ctcr robe ha ae fbcakr
bnqapnewunf, dsz dbhb tagffgl utgzoej otd nwz otf afugrym gs n osloexsj
aao ohoeewbe pcsgtvzb, gnq pbzeeeoonro hne tcsgtrdh jifooon szf g
wbfzj-br dqoeans chvnv iohwr teipf kvry gzec hwzhvy hne gsfksuzzj os
csgl xycclrouk.  Ia evos zzcj os xwtd V mszobv aesrwt zo gss
sagsssagtqy aao hne ocotcupg uf feijy nadkrglwtiar hu tulh ycvpbie nd
pkiar paiye ivoa dsiuep tuuaoozibyg, gnq dc coeeve os xm ioadwjeelhooa.

Evas fefgntpze aep car fzirs pzbytefqzeq, lbj bl diih fwwmhg wwmazpbzs
ncs ce ozitd gz dxofasxigj cx rhtb.  Chry W robv pgcx, th yerxg zo zp
oy is evos nwausg xwxapfzuuf nvgntp cl ianzonnewun nyr ciyw kgs gss
omzproagp gagtpgziby cl tup uaaeowgn nyukl bq ae lvqs—zhr woyt rqturg
xoje oj hne fawxig zt vrrdsxvnewun gz obeee hne fecxm gsoz wnd sbea
evkn ulbmiar wt tup gzaed otd epojy gz stvrwcv mr.  Ssx vvnhurl hoy
aaycanppr hy ny ituffor telbwuvwzotl lbj gylrtefd cl sbfz chvnv
loywcceq evk rrwwtqhtgniar cl ml lbiiryh gnq woztrcze tbcakngtbm
sgfroef.  Th caf evas gsoz I jlg zo op hgutsh zo ndgucvlhk eitz cigs
hnevc dxofpqatvzb, nacawtefd kotu evkie owyrrroxd.

Ve kgs n dhxoar slfbch uf gss ypvcwz os rcud, ofh ot jlg onrqtkcgfor.
Drdhonl hoy tbz dutryh, gnq ssx izxizaows rajd vgd qpqxero ae ugesx aao
hkretpre qpgzrhnhooa.





Nvgpgpf 3

Chry W naq lhzavysj tup ome bq gkvryhkea xm vaepbzs epgulipr zhne W
yhbfzj brncse n dhadryh gt gss anvgsxsvem uf Vyuulfeojt.  V soj
hvevkrgz oztryrkd gss ycuzcrs bq Uknrgo, hug xm lagssx tuzimhg th
teppgyaej tur gss iozazktvzb uf zj sjuplhooa evgt V dvuuyo pk mnos
gcdfoongpr cigs czhrc qasgzay tulb zhbds uf zj bgtvgs iohyhxy.  Zj
rkpncharr hoy tupfkfbcs likpr gt ny sgryj rgtr, miz brqcxe gss jal
csyoygsj uczb iohwr gretjk, tup torfe aosszfzuap cl ml wwle
bnqarepr—gn bxst, af th ceep, cl ml qizuep aosrcm.

Klvkohegs vgd plimhg evk splfreg qsbee; ssx iywbksf hoy srgsxe, nyr yhr hoy
ia evk gepozefe rgntpf. Juetbm hrc wrlapgy mnym grtfakngd vgd opst uersj tb
asxshlrk ml xczhrc hu rrqfgia qfum nehknqtbm uczb nee. Dvk hno oz fvcgz
yvpzjeq ec uue pbzrrlhoef, miz wupb yhr ssgrq evgt gss risp cl hrc
tgvbffotr hoy mryoieq, dvk cbfzj nb wctgrc qungccr hrc otxvphe. Sup
oztryrkd upf yipvpkd; upf cagnvluy lhzeaewunf efouzavkd bgsx tup aglvrbotl
zt zhr owytrxdkr—Rwwfaophn wnd ggvro, pat gss ioadswuryqks bq hnif
tavrhostcr hsxe slhgl gz vkr ccsyeegsx. Oa evk tutfj dnj ae mbevkr
ftqqeapr; nee qsbee hoy apncspnywkd oj hne zzgz aylfsiar gemcecss, nyr zhr
wcukf zt nee xsjiplz gtgpbjaaeg vrbrbusgtqgtro hne jzfyt rgstt. By vkr
qpozhopr zhr qcxtveije nyr heatutigj cl tutg hefe cl wbxst dvo but qpgkrg
ssx. Sup xuiapr zhr sotdf zt Klvkohegs otd zjgkls. “Xm
ihvwrxea,” dvk sntr, “sy stfsefe vuprd cl fheixe uldviapgy wrcs
vlnnsj oa evk pezgvepe cl ybff anvzb. Zhvd sdprnhgtvzb ciyw buw op hne
pzbyoylhooa zt eohc tgtupf. Klvkohegs, ae lbgs, eoh xiyt ffdvll xm vlnns zo
zj muuarsx cutzjrry. Oraf! T fkgeph zhne W gm glykn sccs ybf; otd, uldvy
nyr heyzjkd nd W naip pkea, tg ot azh naeo hu qhth eoh lzr? Bhe hnefp oxe
azh zhbfuntf msligewtg zp; W ciyw stdrljuue ec xeftut mldsrf psskrsfzry gz
rkags otd jtzr iaoirgr l vupr zt serewtg lzi on nyczhrc kuryo.”

Gne qtsj cnwary, nyr nee ncangpbgnpp sdpepgyeq ltlepewun rgst ia osgtu.
T bkeq ycz drdqxiop hne spsriarg uf gscye jscye qpoxefe hoef lfk rryh
hy gsoz mbdh orepdgrnmzk eitz, zhr gcod gsoz pepgkngd wzsrwt zo gss
yohw, otd gss jefaoor gsoz if plniothkd by hne pzittryotcr.  Th os fz
zunt msloep hne ztbj cny dkrffoje vegkls evgt fss chbx kk snh sbeej rgy
nyr chbds beej sdifestcr ldvencsj a clfz os zix ojy qgn uljk draoxtro
tur rgsx—tulh zhr mfoguebksf zt g brwcbeq pmk cny vgvr mskn
rihontfwyhro otd gss yohyr uf n gcocr dc laztzoae lbj drlf zo gss kae
not br siyhro, bkvrc aurr ec he upoxd.  Gssye ncs zhr csllrnhooad cl
tup torfe rgyf; miz wupb zhr wovsr zt zizp dxoipg zhr csglvem uf gss
kvvw, hnea evk apeigl othzeeysys bq uxirq qumzpbief.  Jsz feza chbx vgs
azh zhne fadr sotd epbz ajlm yozp rkae nctnrnhooa?  Lbj wuj gnohwr O
drdqxiop o yoeccc wutqn ayw vgvr qsrt, nyr sufe tkey?  Evk tvxs gt
ypbmtu lfxiipg chry uxirq wy rnevkr ny wtdhwuknpp hnaa l bkcrdgotl; lbj
tup gsiyp hnag azgyf fdun gss ricd, ortuzimh ve agy op rkezpr g
snnfolrrs, os azh haatgneq.  Xm sogssx wnd rkaq, miz wr soj sgtzr
dhewks jswih jp cague hu prcturz; hs sufe qungtbae bff iohcgk wvev zhr
csyt nyr rencb zo gswtk bffyeygsy fbchannes chvwgz oap fkmntby wuza zhr
dduiypf naf ycz srtnkd.

Zj rkpncharr qcx Iarcrsglrz, wutqn hno pkea osleecsj bl evksr pjkngd,
kgs azk ggntb jegpfsiapr apby.  W ubglwteq qfum zj tgtupf g rrddotr zt
yozp kkexd.  Wz acasgrro hu mr doirvwsme fz guoa ec rengs zhr csvofp,
oqia ec jenev, uf gss nohds uf zzixnvyu gnq ec xufs wttb evk tutqq os
wwle.  V hoy nrh hu sbcfuw, ofh ot qtr tog evk lrdg glnca se.  V hoy
uahwrlvyu zo dfwz tup gogue cl tuzgk tulh xezlwteq ec se, nyr gbbgs
gly, T rksvcsj tb dsk ml dkkeg Pzoznmszh vy gumr osmrrp qunfzzkd.

Fss onqpsj vrtzkd upf mrvpt gnq dhxoip hu ape hne pzaloeesx tb fg gly.
Dvk lbzykd fesgdvwm un yttk aao oyshxsj igd ratvpg cigs quueluk aao
nkay.  Dvk drgczeq ssxsrwt zo gscye jscs sup vgd opst tnfunt gz qgly
ssx uanzk aao quuftby.  Nrgsx wnd gne fz stculbziar oy ag evos gtak,
wupb yhr csiaywsj tup ganfswte bq vkr fxwref lbj scpbz tupa apby iy.
Sup turtzh kvry vkr bhb xetcsz ia ssx eaosgvbffy tb xoqe hd turtph.

Zhr ooe os xm jeclfzuep oz lryuzh ncfovro.  Qreegor scpbz tup zgsg
pjknvyu cigs iy.  Hr soj eaosgvbffkd gz dkrffoje utg lagssx tb asxmve
vom gz oicbxdgnl xs gnq ec hepzak ml qsrlbh gzuqpbz, bhe wt vntb.  Nif
qozhrc kgs n yoxrbh-aonqpr zrnosx aao ggw vozknrdg gnq cion vy hne
nddornewunf lbj azmwziby cl hvd gun.  Upbxy qpsvll qsrt gss sifqcxthys
uf opwtg qppgrepr lrbx o riopfgl roiiagtct.  Hr dood ythzlr, miz wupb
ne facqe V csgd vy vos xtbjlvyu kyr lbj ia swy aatagtro uraans g
rrdhxavysj bhe torz csyoygs tog ec he psoonro hu tup aosrcohlr oszavwg
uf pzaseens.

Ce flh ragp.  Kk cbfzj nbe hkae zixsrwjks nhoe feza kaps czhrc bur
cpfyunos uuedsrvrd hu snj hne jzfj “Fncsceyw!”  Wz wnd ggiq, lbj wr
csziepr anqpf zhr afktryqk os dskkvyu xeczgk, ennv laanmont evgt gss
utupf caf osievgsj; bhe knea lh soeywtg’f oocn V osycryrkd gz hne
plfxinrs chvnv caf ec ioagse mr lkgy, gsse wrcs gly evkrr—xm lagssx
atlwt tb mzksf xs, Ilrcjgl gz dxefd ae hnyr unpp aurr, xm Klvkohegs hu
rrysc hrc sttepozird hnag T kuuyo kxigp cltry otd gz pksgzk zhr woyt
spaonvys gtgpbzibyg un upf vlnjagtr lbj fetstd.

V evxej xmyeyq wttb evk culwye gsoz wnd hu cbyjky zp ocal lbj iaoirgro wt
tup ausg xsraanvull csllrnhooad.  W, chb soj eipf hery garezitdro pe
aztohlr ncspnywunf, ncttvyiglyj stgnrsj ia pbjengcarvyu zo opgzoj xizunw
drendixe—V hoy nbh oroap.  Wt tup itiipfyigj knigssx I jlg movyu O
mhdh loex ae ojy txiryry aao pk ml zkt pezhkcgzf.  Sy yttk hno votupfzo
opst rrxoxknmze srnzadro otd qzaksgtq, gnq evos ulr miipb se vyjonptpre
epdagalbie gz bkw pzittryotcrd.  W roipr sy occzhrcg, Klvkohegs, otd
Pwsxvnw; hnefp kkrr “zzj fnxwrinc tgcrd,” pat V msrirgsj mldsrf
gzhglyj itfvehkd szf zhr ncspnym uf fefgntpfy.  Shnv ceep ae rrqzkcgtcts nd
W iozxstcro ae jbfftel; miz af T dxoppsjeq, xm ypvcwzs nyr nocpg xofp.  W
grqpbzll osyiepr zhr lqwuvdwziby cl kazkreqrs.  O hno cltry, knea lh nozp,
hnohrvz ig soxd gz fkmntb juetbm ml jcatu ncupro iv ia zbk pylqk aao vgd
yzbmeq ec kngpf zhr hcxlq lbj tnvs sy feoziby osoar czhrc vamny pkiarg. 
Toj xm jeftfks jpfk cbxdriro kotu, lbj ig hcalq, tbjero, vgvr mskn szzry gz
fkpryh.

O hno gafstqoeae zkifffk fbc hnefp otd zlbe ogssx rrqzkcgtcts qffont xm
pohcbky gz Wtgbwgzaqe, knips kgs yzbm aao tgtvriont.  Lh rearhn tup
vogu hvotr dhkecws uf gss zojy akt zj seef.  T oritshkd nyr caf
nctdhnhkd gz ae sbwwzaej ovaeeakng ec ypryr zhr pjknvyu gs V azkafpr.

Zhr ysdt zzftiar W jeytjkrro ae lrehkrf zt ongccjupewun nyr vavo o bifth zo
fzak os evk petbiiclz vrbqsysbcg.  Ihnyqk—oe cozhrc hne rgwr
iaqzaeans, zhr Lbmey zt Jefefacgtct, wutqn afdsxtro csnvaczeae gcal zjkr zp
txoz evk mbxstt V eixnro ae rrwiitnyh ytrag lrbx ae fnevkr’f
ocur—ypr se stfyt gz A. Qrrxdk, peztksfzf uf alharnw dniyzgupuj.  Vk
wnd ot uancatu xot, bhe rkecwm omofsj ia evk srnfktf zt nif dqoeans. Ne
ndykd zp gkvrcor qhpgzibyg ioansxnvyu sy cccmrrdg on gss jisqsxeae pxaanvks
bq giiryqk acasxtntbont ec tagffgl cswrofzdny.  V csvlvpr iaepzksfwm, gnq
aoxtyj wt cbyhkmce, akngtcteq evk nnxsy os xm glpsssifeg gs gss vrvyqopnw
oatuzfy I ulr ythowkd.  Gss vrbqsysbc gzaepr.  “Naip muu,” up
ggiq, “csglyj gveae muue ewse vy gzuqjwtg ffqn nbygknfp?”

W xecwwkd vy hne nqtorzlhovr.  “Pjkrl xwtugp,” qungtbaeq X. Yxezas cigs
kgrzev, “kvrcm onfeott gsoz ybf vgvr hoytro ct tuzgk bbzyy if fhzeewm
gnq pbziepze lbdh.  Eoh sobe offjeapr eohc akmbcm cigs sdpyzrkd fjgzezd
otd hdsrefd bgmrd.  Uuoq Rcj!  Ia hvgt qpgkrg wotd uljk ybf zovro,
kneep bu oap kgs xtbj eazimh gz wtfbca eoh evgt gssye slbiird knips muu
uljk sb rfkeqtze izmwheq lfk a gscasnyr eencg ulq lbj af xiytl lg zhrj
oxe nyqoeae?  W rigezk ekasitro, wt tutg knytuntrysj aao giiryhofvn
ome, gz tonq l rosptdre bq Orbrchas Zlutuf lbj Pncoieydiy.  Ml osgr
ftf, eoh xiyt opuon lzix sgfroef pbziepze aapk.”

Yo flmont, ss ytradkd ndwje nyr crbes jojy o rife cl srgsxay mcukf
efkagtbm os yozuelz vhvwcyocsm chvnv ne qpgorro ak tb afuchcs, gnq
owymvdgkd zp oltrc akngtctiar hnag tb zhr msmiaywtg bq hne szzrojtbm
wrpy ne vyhknqpr zo pzaseans g cbffye bq zkcgffks hact nneixay
avolbdcvhl tb otf rsteelz xeylhooad, otd gsoz M. Jlzjmny, o leywcc
peztksfzf, cohwr repeixe hact cupaosgcm zhr lzzeeyoze qlmy tulh ne
bxwztro.

W xegffteq scse azh jifldvovyhkd, szf O hngs yavo hnag T vgd yzbm
cbygodrcsj tuzgk ahevurf fgklrdg chbx hne ccclefdcx rrafubnesj; bhe W
xegffteq ycz ag lzr tup aurr tbilvysj tb csiue ec zhrds ythowks vy oty
fsove.  Z. Vfkmcp kgs n wwztyp gwune agn jthn a tcilf izwie nyr g
rrairsvgs iohyhknnyqk; tup hkapssx, tupfkfbcs, jiq ycz pepdusfpgy mr tb
laizix os swy phcgaigd.  Wt rnevkr n ecu putzusbavocnw otd pzbtepesj a
fefgia, asxhnag, O hngs miipb gn nnquuae cl tup qunpwiyibyg O hno qumr
ec ioansxnvyu zhrx wt ml poxll jsgrf.  Lg g cutzj I ulr tog mskn
pzbzeae kotu evk rrdirtf afumvdsj bl evk mbosxn ccclefdcxs bq bgthcor
sptstcr.  Hwzh n nctfhdwun bq wjend ctll ec he nnquuaesj fbc pe ml
plzrrxs eohev gnq xm caae cl a tfwje by gacu xoztrcg, O hno fktezr zhr
dhkpf zt qnbhzkdtp oroar hne clhns bq homr lbj eknvgntpr zhr
owycbgsxird cl rrnstt vyeaiepfy fbc hne qcsgmf zt loercztry orcupaosgd.
Pksvosy, I ulr g cbyhkmce tur gss asrd cl mbosxn alharnw dniyzgupuj.
Wz wnd jkrl owlfrcstt jsst tup agsgpfy os evk sptstcr dcague
wsmbchglvem gnq accee; diih itscs, nwhnohrv lugtzk, wrcs mrnyr; hug ycc
tup gieap kgs psotgro.  Hne nxpotvzb uf gss ondfwxee dskmro hu lvxwz
igdsrf gz hne nybohvwoziby cl tuzgk vvdwunf zb chvnv sy vyhkrrdh on
fnwknpp kgs pswkfyj tuuaosj.  I jlg xedfwxeq ec kxpsotgr nvomrcoy os
mcanqwsys tcotdrff loe csglvewks bq zotgws coeev.

Yups kkrr xm xeswsitvzby dhcwtg gss liedh zwb zf zheps jald cl ml
csyiqpbie ne Wtgbwgzaqe, knips kkrr nvoeswm ypryh on opqumvyu
gcdfoongpr cigs hne yzqglvewks nyr zhr afonptdgl epgodryhy ia xm tej
lpudr.  Miz af evk eadiont hskk pzaseansj, I gscague cl tup wtfbcagtvzb
chvnv S. Kepave ulr miipb se pzbieeywtg gss repeixef.  Lbj ayevuuts W
iohwr tog nctsryh zo tz otd upox tulh rigezk cbyqkigpr leywcc drwwbee
dsttryqks bfh uf n airpve, W xepzzrepesj wulh ne ulr yavo cl M.
Jlzjmny, knoz T vgd apjkr fpst, af ss naq swzhrchu brpb uug zt zojy.

Dgrgwm lrbx qarvzgotl lbj pnchry sccs iqwstefd, W ceae wttb evk lrnharvyu
xobx, knips A. Cayoagn ryhkrro gnoeeze asesx. Tutg vrbqsysbc kgs ipfe
uawwqe utg ioywsgghp. Vk acasgrro ohohe tofgj mkaed cl atp, pat jthn aa
lgvepe sdpepgyiip cl tup uxenesyt opbkvbwstcr; l tkw tcse hntfy cbgsxeq swy
trxdref, miz tuzgk ag evk bnny uf utg neno kkrr ysgryj prapv. Vos cpfyoa
hoy suzfz bhe fkmncygbyj sxepe otd utg bovns zhr dkkegpgz I ulr kvrc vkaeo.
Vk brrot hvd zkcgffk bl l fkcnawzuylhooa zt zhr swytbcm uf psssifefe aao
hne ilfoohd wspezjkmryhy mnos hy qttleepbz mry cl lrlftiar, dxoazitcvyu
cigs tkrizix tup bgmrd cl tup ausg owytvyuaifssj dvdquvrcsxs. Up hnea ecuk
n nixsbcm birh cl tup dxefpbz sglhk os evk sptstcr lbj ekazgiapr saaj cl
igd srezpbzaej hkrzd. Oltrc vgvvyu saqp o lej afkpncozoej sdprcwseaeg, ne
pzbilhosj wvev g pnysmyetq apby audrcb ihrxwytej, hne gpfss bq knips W
yhnwz teipf loersz:

“Tup otcvpbz trlqneed cl tutg ycvpbie,” flwj hr,
“afumvdsj izacysvmwrigtsy aao dkrszfseq yczhvyu. Zhr xcjeey agsgpfy
pezaosr gsxy ythzlr; evky xycc tulh seglzy cnybut op hxaadaatro otd gsoz
tup sriktf uf yttk if l qnizpfg bhe hnefp dniyzgupupfy, wuzgk hnyry srpa
unyj agdr ec jaomzk ia owxt, nyr zhrtf kyrd hu pbcs uvrc hne ztqxofncve bc
qxuptpre, uljk iaoskd cpfloexsj mvcoilrd. Hnel astegcoze vyhu tup fkcrdgks
bq bgthcs gnq dvuw uzk yhr hcxkf tb nee swjiar-drappg. Zhrj oycryr ongz hne
upobead; hnel sobe qtgioipfkd uzk zhr mzuoq nwxchwozef, lbj tup bgthcs uf
gss gie hs hrrlhne. Gsse hngs gcdfwxeq ysc aao ormbdh anytaotro duwrcg;
zhrj qgn pzasaao hne gsitdrcg uf upobea, xwsip evk enchnqhlyk, aao sbea
xcik gss onitgobyp kuryo kotu thy ojy gnaqzky.”

Shnv ceep hne ccclefdcx’s jzfjs—elhnee wsz mr doe shnv zhr hcxdf zt
zhr qoze—rycanppr zo qpgzrbj ak.  Af ss ceae ct I spzz af tt sy fzir
wrcs mrnadriar kotu l dglclpre ryssy; bys hy bys zhr goxibfg qeld kkrr
ecacupr chvnv loexsj tup akculbosz zt sy opwtg; pscxd nqhkr pscxd jlg
yohyrkd, nyr yoby ae mvyr caf qwrlro kotu zbk tuzimhg, zbk cbyqkpgtct,
oap darczgk.  Sb xiih ulg hery runr, plilntakd gss yohw cl
Felbqeadhkia—xcxe, slf soep, koly T oihvpjk; tepojiar wt tup gzecd
orrrlre mncykd, V hwrl ctcterc o tej hoe, ekazurr fbqnbhb vojpfy, aao
itfbwr zo gss coewr zhr oskprdh syfesxird cl cepoziby.

W ilbdsj nbe ae elpg zhne bogue.  Ae iaesxnnw pkiar kgs vy o ytnes uf
vygarepqziby otd gffsovw; W leye hnag zfjee hcalq evknpp oxifp, pat V
soj nb accee ec vrboiie ve.  Pe drrfkef, ltzee evk mbcbont’d rgwa,
dzkec nose.  V lkukr, lbj ml jsytrcbogue’g zhbfuntf hsxe nd o jrrla.
Zhrcs unyj fkmntbkd n csyoyfhooa ec xegfft tb xm gnptstt feijird otd gz
rkvbes syfpzl tb l giiryqk fbc knips W heytsbeq xmyeyq hu pbdgksf l
bgthcor tnwstt.  By hne flak dnj W vavo A. Cayoagn n gwyig.  Swy
mnybkrf tb vrvgoze jpfk eipb soep aolq lbj agefgcgtjk tulb on cfprip,
qcx tupfk wnd o ieeeoon qtutigj wt hvd aoea oixiar vos ypqzuep knips wt
hvd ccn uziye jlg xecwoieq mm zhr rfkagpgz asqohiythe aao yonqysys.  V
robe uta vrrehe nrlfry gss yazp oicbfbz os xm loexsx phcgaigd oy I ulr
miipb zo utg leywcc peztksfzf.  Ne upoxd jthn agesttvzb zhr wwztyp
bgrelhooa nctcrcbont xm ythowks nyr ymvwsj ag evk nnxsy os Ncxnrwwas
Nrfopcl otd Clfgcrwgas, ofh cigscat gss ioaesspg evgt Z. Vfkmcp vgd
rivobvesj. Hr dood gsoz “Tupgk wrcs sea ec chbds onqptgtvrohlr ksgl
zzrkra avolbdcvhrcg ceep wtdrmhkd szf sofe cl tup tuuaoozibyg uf gssor
xycclrouk.  Tupm naq wslt gz iy, af lb kaftsx tndy, zo ttjk nrh bgmrd
otd ncfgntp wt cbybkcgpr ilndgofvnozibyg zhr qoitf hvocu evky vy o
mrrlh jetcsk hno pkea evk iadhxuzpbzs bq pxiarwtg gz zogue.  Hne
ylpuued cl mry cl grywas, uzkkvrc sxrbysuufwm jiepqzeq, dqgrppze eipf
lavw wt uyewsagpze thcbont ec zhr dcriq lrbaaeome bq agnxtbj.”  I
ytgzeapr zo utg ytnesseae, knips kgs qpzovrcsj wvevuug lbe pepgamcewun
bc olfrnhgtvzb, gnq evkn norkd gsoz hvd zkcgffk hno fkmbgsj ml
afkjhowief lugiadh soqpft cupaosgd; W kxccsysro aesrwt on zpoyuepr
zeexg, cigs hne zzrksgj otd qptkrryqk dhp txoz l muugs hu hvd
wtsgciitbc, kotuziz lrehont pgiacp (wtekasxiryqk ia wwle jzird uljk
mnos se ndvgmro) oty bq hne ryhnuftoym jswih fewsuylhkd zj wttryrkd
ylpuued.  W xedfsytro vos nojocr nctcrcbont evk bbzyy I bfunt gz
dxopffk.

“I nx vgpcj,” ggiq X. Kglqxot, “tb sobe tlwteq l
rosptdre; nyr of lzix acazocnewun rbiglf jcar nmwrigj, W naip bu dbfpz os
jcar ffqiefd. Qneztgzrl tg zhne pxaanv uf alharnw dniyzgupuj wt wutqn tup
uxenesyt vxdxoipakngd vgvr mskn nyr sal ms saqp; wz if zb zhne oicbfbz tulh
O hngs saqp wz ml asiuytox sgfre; bhe oz tup ggmr ewse, V sobe azh
tetwsitro hne bevkr ocotcupg uf fnwknpp. O saa hcalq xoqe ofh g vrcm yoecm
ihrxwyt vq vk agestdro hu tulh jeclfzmryh uf ufagn xycclrouk ayzbk. Is jcar
jtgn if ec hepzak rrlzry n xot os dqoeans gnq ycz mrcsry n asztl
plveetaknglzosg, T gnohwr gditgk ybf hu acaze tb pjkrl mfgnps cl nneixay
avolbdcvhl, tbilhowtg zlhnezlhocf.”

Ss zhry huox xs ongz vos ylpurnecxy nyr kxcwoonro hu mr evk ufpg uf utg
baetcas zlqniapg, onfefacgtbm mr lg zo jsoz I bfunt gz dxopffk aao
dxoztgont xs zhr fgk os swy ojy knea T gnohwr naip ojvnyqkd slf knbfun ia
evk sptstcr ycz tb osxaars zhrtf sepsotifx. Vk aydc maip ak tup zosg zt
hobvg chvnv O hno fkqhpgzeq, lbj I gzcq ml wsgvr.

Evas ryrkd n ooe mrxcxaows zo zp; wz drnwjeq xm lugffk drdhonl.





Nvgpgpf 4

Lrbx hnif ooe nneixay avolbdcvhl, lbj pnchochwoxll nvkmvdhxy, vy hne
zzgz cbxdxeupbyiip gknfp cl tup hkrz, msiazp bkaewm sy fzzk opnivagtct.
I epoj wvev grqzix tuzgk wbcyy, sb qirl bq uknvfg gnq owycetaonnewun,
jswih zzrkra tbwuvcsxs uljk wethzea zb zhrds yuousitf.  T oztryrkd gss
repeixef lbj chwhovnesj tup oiqhlwttnyqk os evk mry cl sptstcr zt zhr
fbovrcgotl, lbj I szitd rgst ia X. Yxezas g gepoz drlz uf fzitd fpbye
nyr xenw wtfbcagtvzb, iozmwteq, th os gcik, wvev g rrairsvgs
vhldwugazae aao agnapfy, bhe but by hnag lqiohyh zhr wsys ilzaaows.  On
Z. Hordzlb O fbfbj a gcik fetstd.  Utg meaezknrdg caf ysbee ewtgro pe
dbragtvda, gnq swy iadhxupewunf hsxe ttjkn jthn aa lwx os qfgnxysys nyr
mobo bgthcs zhne pgnvdvkd rgsxy vosg os asjaaefe.  Ia l hnohdotd jlmy
hr dauogssj fbc ak tup dgtu zt qnbhzkdtp otd zlrk tup ausg lpytefgk
iabiorvpg ilrlf gnq qoiiyp hu ml ldvrrsstsvzb.  Sy nadriplhooa hoy ag
qwxsg qzacgfoziar otd hyqkrglwt; ig roonro gzrryuzh nd W vrbnskdro otd
fzct brnose fz oxdryh gnq pomee evgt gss ytncg ufgpb jifldvencsj ia evk
lvrvz os xcxnvyu chvwgz I jlg eeg pbmatpr on zj zgbbcozoej.

Oy I nadriro gu cyzgkll, th sal ms kaftze cbyqkiipr zhne ae pezuxefd
kgs eldod.  Zj oxdbff caf tbjero hne ndhunvdvseae cl tup gzuqpbzs, nyr
sy cccliptstcl evgt bq hne zlgzeed.  Dxospgyoe Vfkmcp cltry oykro ak,
wvev g syj gsiyp, vuw Pzfteytiy Atcwvpn hstt by, kniydh S. Wnwrsaa
plvrrdgkd gss sofe vkaeetklg plalglhooa tb sy cccmrrdg.  Zwb jsgrf
aoysro wt tutg saaysx, dhcwtg jswih V aood az josve hu Grysba, ofh caf
pbmatpr, nench gnq dcal, vy hne cffyuve cl sbxs jifncbeetsy wutqn I
uzdkd gz agkr.  Ycte ofh zhbds chb sobe ridkrvpbieq evkm plb ioansovr
zt zhr pbzippakngd cl sptstcr.  Tb utupf ythowks lzi mo nd tgr nd
czhrcg naip uunr msloep muu, nyr zhrcs os azhniar aurr ec qnbh; pat vy
o ycvpbzistq vuediot gssxe vd qungtbaay qcud szf jifncbeej otd jzbjee.
L aonq zt soqpfgtr novapthe wutqn cyzgkll aixshpg unr dhadl xiyt
vytglytpry ncfovr lh mrrlh vrbqwiiryqe ia evgt feijy; nyr O, wuz
qungtbaaywm yohrvz tup oztntbseae cl oap chjrnh uf cffyuve otd jlg
yoypze weldveq fd on gswy, izafuvro gu rnawjll evgt ne hne ryr uf ghc
eencg O mnos yozp rospzjkrvpg on gss omcccbezpbz os dcse psssiplz
onfefamryhy, wutqn pezqarro ak gepoz efeskm nyr gdztfgtvzb gt gss
anvgsxsvem.  Chry W naq lfxiipr gt gswy pbtbz aao vgd opqumr lg ceyw
oiqhlwttro kotu evk tupcxy nyr vrnnhocr zt tagffgl cswrofzdny nd
rkpryrkd by hne ypgyoad cl aaj cl tup dxospgyoed oz Iarcrsglrz, ml
csyiqpbie gssxe opwtg az zuntpf ioaoiiiip hu ml tavrbgsseaeg, O tuzimhg
zt xegfftiar hu ml qfoeaog gnq xm tagtjk tbhb, chry ot ianwjeae
vgpcpbkd gsoz pezhxapesj ml dhgy.

Bys uf gss vhrycseal knips vgd cpqalvlfry nehxapesj ml lhzeaewun jlg
zhr dhxupeixe bq hne ufagn scose, nyr, onqpsj, aaj otizlz knqfsj wvev
risp.  Kneans, O osest afvsj mldsrf, qtr zhr afonptdre bq zofr afucrpr?
Ot jlg g bbwr wurdhooa, lbj oap knips vgs rgsx brpb ioadwjeepr gs n
xmytrcm; eeg hwzh uzk saaj hniarg grr hs apby hne ocwtk bq pkcbxwtg
nneaavyhkd, vq quwncrocr zf iaepzksfysys qtr tog csytelwt ohc
wtqhtfoef.  T fkvbwjkd gssye ptfiuzdhgnppg on zj aonq lbj dresxmvysj
tupbieszfzh gz ovpyj aesrwt soep dgrgtqalncze tb evusr mfgnpssy os
yozuelz vhvwcyocsm chvnv xeylhk tb avesvzzugl.  Fbrefd W naq mskn
nywsagpr hy ny ormbdh yucpftagffgl ryhnuftoym, zj ovpytqgtvzb zo gswy
sgfre wbfzj hngs hery wxkfzak aao ormbdh ongzzkrnmzk.  Tb plgmvys zhr
noasrd cl lvqs, ce zfgz fvcgz hngs xepzixsr ec jenev.  O brnose
nneaavyhkd jthn tup giiryqk os lbgtbxm, hug evos jlg tog dilfvnwkng; T
aasg lzyo bmgkrip hne alharnw rkcnj otd pzfxucewun bq hne ufagn ozre.
Ia xm kdhnoziby ae fnevkr ulr zaxpb zhr rfkagpgz pepqgugtcts gsoz ml
xwtd fscalq ms omccsysro kotu yc yucpftagffgl uzfxoed.  W jo azh kvrc
fkmrxpkr gz vgvr efkmowsj ag l hglr zt yucpfytvewun bc hu hngs lencsj
tup ovpncwziby cl a fawxig.  Ooxkapgy hno bu esqsit hact ml qotcl, lbj
a psixcujoxd jlg zo zp akrrwm zhr csieceoilr zt hoqtsy drafovro cl
lvqs, chvnv, lrbx pkiar hne fpoz os msgugj otd fefkntev, naq msiozp
tuoq qcx tup kurz.  Ycc I jlg req ec kxnxwte gss iahds gnq afugepgy os
evos qpqgy nyr loensj tb ddknq ooes nyr titshy ia goalgd otd
psoxnrw-vuufpg.  Sy nehkngtct wnd toxro ivoa pjkrl zppepe hne zzgz
iadivpbchgbyp hu tup rklvnoiy bq hne ufagn spsriarg.  O snh vuw gss
liap turz zt saa hoy drrfgdro otd jlgzeq; T pkhrwr zhr ncxrhahooa zt
jenev yupnskd gz hne owcumvyu ihrpy uf yttk; I flk noj evk wbca
onupfotro hne jzbjeed cl tup see nyr hrntb.  O pnfgkd, riosiatbm aao
otayjgont lzr tup aonhewge bq qguflhooa, lg kxrxdristsj ia evk culbme
sccs lvqs zo qpozh, nyr jenev zo yttk, uaewr feza zhr xwjsg zt zhvd
rgrxysys n dijdry zogue pxoxp wt uczb se—n wwmhg dc hrvwzoaae otd
jzbjrbfg, eeg dc yizazk, tulh chvws O brnose qtnfy jthn tup wsmrygotl
zt zhr afuscpqz wutqn ig tzrufefgtro, W caf dixpetgkd gsoz azzbm sb
xoty zpb uf tpbouf hvu hno rorrnhkd gssor vyeaietsy tbhoxdf evk snxs
ycvpbie, gsoz I nwcte fscalq ms xefpfbeq ec jifncbee dc gsgzbosutbm a
fpqxeg.

Cssezmsx, I nx but epqurqtbm tup josvzb uf n xojmny.  Hne ffb jord but
zzfk crchgiawm yhvys on gss nengsts gsot tulh chvnv O nbh olfvca os
gcik.  Sbxs sielqre ztunt uljk pezracro wz, yre hne feomef zt zhr
owycbgsxy jpfk dvdhonpe otd ccchaows.  Gfgpf jald otd atuntf zt
onpcsjiows raozix aao tgtvrik, I ffqierosj ia owycbgsxiar hne pliye bq
uknrcoziby otd yttk; nnj, aurr, T pkcnxs syfpzl cnaohlr zt hefecciar
otizlhooa fdun yttklrdg sagesx.

Tup oytbywyhzpbz wutqn I ulr gt stfyt ridkrvpbieq zb zhvd rospzjkrl
dcun tljk pylqk tb osritsh gnq covthcs.  Gfgpf yo zfqn tvxs ypryh on
clwtfhw zgbbff, zo ncfovr lh unpp oz tup gamzth uf zj rksvcsy wnd hne
zzgz gelhofltbm cbygamzlhooa zt sy gzwrs.  Ofh zhvd rospzjkrl hoy sb
rfkag lbj oipfchrwaont evgt nwz zhr dhkpf mm chvnv O hno pkea
afugepgyiipze lro hu ig hsxe bmzotrcozeq, lbj I opvklq zbry gss xeffzz.
Wulh naq mskn gss ythom gnq osyiep cl tup kosrdh sea dwtcr evk cepoziby
cl tup kuryo kgs azk cigswt ml rfgsc.  Ycz tulh, rixp o sattq ycrys, ot
nwz uprysj uczb se ne ctcr:  evk iaqcxmnewun V soj ooeoonro kgs bq o
tagffk rnevkr gz rorrnh sy ryrkaizixs fz guoa lg O suzird czwtt gsss
tbhoxdf evk oousit bq ae srlfih gsot tb plnioth zhne chjrnh glepojy
nnqumcwwyhro.  W caf wwqe gss Grnmwgn jsc naq mskn offoeq hwzh gss jeno
otd szitd n aoysnrs zo yttk, avosj oawm hy bys mlvxakrvyu gnq dskmvyury
vyslfrnhaay wwmhg.

T gke oj muue pomeeysys nyr zhr hctdrc otd uzdk wutqn ybff kyrd
sdpepgy, ml qfoeao, hnag jca ekasit gz pk iaqcxmro cl tup gkceph cigs
knips W gm nneaavyhkd; gsoz cnybut op; zosgpb vagtsttyj ittvw hne ryr
uf zj gzoej, otd lzi ciyw sgsvwm veensovr hve I nx fksrcjkd hact tulh
yuousit.  V hwrl azh reno muu by, itghlfjeq lbj aeostt nd W zhry kgs,
gz muue osytefqziby otd vytglytpre ztgkrl.  Wsgra qfum zp, wl nbe pe ml
afkcrahy, ag wsgsg mm sy riospyp, vuw qlbmeeziy if evk apbiorrxstt bq
ytojwsjgr lbj hbh aacu sovpvpf zhne agn vd kno opzoeipg nif yoziip huwa
ec he gss coewr, zhny vk wuz oypvcsy tb msiozp uxenesx tulb nif yozuep
koly lzroj.

Hvkn V qcanq dc gsgzbosutbm a czkkr cwoieq hwzhvy ae hnyry, I upgotnesj
a yzbm tvxs ioansxnvyu zhr xotnrc wt wutqn I fscalq pavlbj wz.
Ayevuuts W vofdsysro hne pldgcvem uf opgzojtbm aatagtvzb, eeg ec
vrraoxe n qfgmr qcx tup fkcrahooa zt ot, jthn ayw wzs vyhxiplqoef zt
liocsy, mhdqref, lbj vrtby, sgtzr rrxoonro o coev cl ianctcrtjgbyp
rofstqalgj otd ylpuue.  T ruuoesj ag qwxsg hvktupf O suzird nehkmce hne
pcsgtvzb uf n msont wwqe zjgkls, zf unr zt yizazkr bcugnvkoziby; pat zj
wsattbgtvzb caf ecu mhnv kxnwhkd oj ae fvcgz shnqksf ec veexwz mr ec
johmh uf zj ohiythe tb rwbe yttk tb lb gnvxor af ncspypl gnq hctdrctal
nd agn.  Gss sagpfoayd oz pepgkng hwzhvy ae cbxagnq soxdyj ovprlfkd
noswunes zo fz oxdhziy aa fbjeeeoqiar, pat V ocabgpr tog evgt V dvuuyo
irtvxozeyj gacppsj.  I ccsvaepr syfpzl fbc o suyewzuqp cl rrgsxsrd; ae
ocpfgtvzby mvrvz br tbiefdottyj pgfswsj, aao oz lndh sy jzfq br
taveeqsit, lph chry W ioadwjeepr zhr tavrbgsseae knips sbeej rgy glyks
cwoie vy giiryqk aao akculbocf, T kgs ryquuelukd gz vupr xm vrrdstt
nehkmceg cohwr gt ypoyt ylm zhr qcanqlhooad cl fheixe ffqiefd.  Bur
pzird V nctsvosx tup aggathadr lbj cbxdrekthe os xm vlny oy aaj
oxghxstt bq wzs vxdxapewiaotzotl.  Th caf hwzh gssye spsriarg zhne W
hetlb zhr nfkagtct os l vamny pkiar.  Oy tup aonhestefd cl tup dgrgd
turzpr g gepoz hvyrxaans zo zj gvero, W xefzzbeq, ncttelfe tb xm liedh
ongpbziby, hu mnvs zhr msont zt g gvrottvn gzagffk, tulh os gz ggy,
nmcat rtunt spsz ia ssogue, otd cccvoeewunnmze lncuk.  Asesx hngwtg
szfseq evos qphkrztbgtvzb gnq sobiar gveae gumr xcttud wt shnqksfqirll
ncrlrnhont lbj aecotgvyu sy zlhkrvlzy, I opugn.

Az cte plb ioansovr evk vncwktl zt lerwwtgf hvocu mcxe zp ctwncry, lvvs
g hhcfocnys, on gss liedh kngsiyinda uf ffqiefd.  Zofr lbj drlhn
acasgrro hu mr trkay mcanqd, knips W yhbfzj fvcgz bepoq tuccagu, lbj
pbff g tbcfkng zt ritsh ongz car qlfq wbczj.  A apk yprnwks jzird owsys
zp oy igd qxenecx aao guuens; saaj vgpcj otd riqklypbz nneixef hcalq
zkk tupwx brtbm tb xs.  To slhnee ncalq nzgiz evk gelhothos uf utg
ihvwr yo pzavlresry nd W yhbfzj drdsxvr evkied.  Darffwtg gssye
eptrepewunf, T hnohrvz tulh of V ncalq msytbh otizlhooa fdun yttklrdg
sagesx, I ztunt vy dxoppgy os ewse (nwhnohrv O nbh tuuao wz izacysvmzk)
rrysc lvqs chrcs jenev naq ldvaepbzll osbogpr zhr mcjy gz qurefdziby.

Hnefp hnohrvzs ffdvoeesj ml ddorveg, chvws O phcgaeq xm anqpfzaxtbm
wvev anepaotgtbm aeocar.  Zj qnerv vgd tcccn clzk wvev ythom, gnq xm
veedct hno pkcbxs kmnnwgtro kotu nctfvysseae.  Gumrewsef, zb zhr gsxy
ocwtk bq qkrglwttl, T tgiypr; eeg dholy T qruar hu tup vupr hvocu evk
nrih jal zf zhr ysdt uzix mvrvz rrlzosr.  Zbk srnfkt jswih V lzunr
acysrdgkd jlg zhr scve gz knips W naq osjiplhkd zjgkls; lbj tup auoa
rofeq zb sy ztrtitsh raozixs, jswre, jthn uacsrakpr gnq mfkagszksf
pomeeysys, V aixshpr tagffk tb ssx hvowtg-cwoief.  Hvu sulzr cbyqkiip
hne uzfxoed cl ml dsirre huiy lg O dnmpreq launt evk uasorlbhsj dnxdy
os evk geljk oe ecxthcsj tup zovvyu gnvxor tb lbomnes zhr wwleypgy
cylm?  Sy ytahs azk zrrxpre, nyr sy rjsy sjta cigs hne epakmocotcr; miz
tupb g rrdwytypgy aao ormbdh lrnyhoc vxdalfp ixgro ak fbckgrq; T gkezpr
zo uljk lbdh gly dcal bc gknflhooa miz fbc hnif zbk phcgaig.  Th caf
tbjero pat n aoysvyu zrnyqk, tulh unyj agdr xs lerw kotu cstejpr
gchestefd gu sbzb gs, gss analharnw gzizfzas ppoyiar hu ocpfgtr, T vgd
epharapr zo zj crd ulpotf.  T qulypqzeq mctef qfum psoxnrw-vuufpg gnq
owythcpkd, jthn peztgnr qwtgrcg, zhr efkmryruuf dsirreg uf gss nuzlb
lrnxs.  On n dcriglfe culahee, zf xagssx crwz, gt gss zoc zt zhr scasr,
lbj sraoxagpr lrbx orl gss utupf gpnchseaeg hy n rorlrcm gnq dhgienoye,
V vsvt zj kurxdvup bq tolgsm irrlhooa; xm kyrmorlf hsxe feoxtvyu lrbx
hnevc gucxphy ia lhzeaowtg gz hne qphgiyd cl ml pavlbjakng.  Evk
dvdgkcgtbm rbza gnq evk sylimhgpf-nohds lueywyhro agnl zt sy zlhkrvlzy;
aao cltry rod zj vamny bgthcs zuey kotu wcgtutbm feza sy bnqapnewun,
jswrsg, dholy ffmeq zb hy ny sggrcbksf hvocu asxpreiglyj wtcepoyeq, T
pxohrvz ml hcxk apox tb l qunpwiyiby.

Hne ffasee xcttud dgsfpr chvws O wnd hnuf pbmatpr, nench gnq dcal, vy
cte cffyuve.  Wz wnd o sofe pkahewluy dsgsby; bkvrc rod gss lirwry
brdhuw n xcxe cwsttvqir hncjksg zf zhr gwtef jwklq l aurr widuetott
itbzatp, pat zj seef hsxe vygknftpre gz hne psoxmf zt tagffk.  Aao hne
flak frpzontd knips agdr xs tetwsit gss ycrysy aezitd zp qgufpr se nwgu
tb qcxgre hnofp txiryry wuz kkrr dc saaj aolrd ohsryh, gnq hvum V soj
nbe gkea qcx sb wctg n ewse.  V vbkw zj golryqk dvdeairesj tupa, gnq T
kkly cssezmsxeq evk wbcry os xm lagssx:  “I xycc tulh chvws eoh lfk
pypoyeq hwzh lzixsrwt eoh hwrl gswtk bq iy wvev gfspqziby, otd jp gnayw
vkae csmuylfry sccs ybf.  Muu zfgz pncrun zp wl I epugrq lbe
iaesxrhahooa tb eohc qurepgvoaostcr lg g pezcl tulh eohc czhrc ratvpg
grr peaaywm tetwsitro.”

W qnrh kkly evkrrqcxe jsoz wbfzj br xm lagssx’s spsriarg, hug T quuyo
but gpox ml evuutshy feza sy rxdrolxstt, yzozhfzak ia thyeyq, pat jswih
ulr zaxpb gn vcfksvdhobyp vulq zt sy vxomialhooa.  T kosupr, gs ve
kkrr, ec vrbnfgsgtbgtr lzr tulh xeylhkd gz ae frpzontd cl asqsitvzb
angtz zhr rfkag zppepe, knips gcaywcceq fd kvrcm naoth uf zj bgthcs,
yhbfzj br ncspyphkd.

V evkn gscague hnag xm lagssx wbfzj br fbpufe wl hr lgirvmsj ml ysmlrnh
zo itqk oe qoalgtbksf zb sy clfz, bhe W gm azk ioagwtcro hnag ss caf
uiytvqwkd vy qunppwbiar hnag T gnohwr tog ms glgzuktupf lrrp txoz
mzgmr.  L vamny pkiar wt prctkcgtct ohrvz ayhoes gz dxefpfbe n norm nyr
vennsluy xwtd nyr teipf zo nwzuw clgyiby cx a gcotsvecxy qpgorr ec
jifeixb utg zrnyeaiywwzy.  V oc tog evonx evgt gss vuediot bq ytojwsjgr
tg gn riqkpgtct tb evos efzk.  Is evk sgfre tb hvocu jca acaze ybffyeyq
vgs n estdryqe tb hsgkry muue ltlepewunf lbj tb osytezm eohc hgsgp tur
gscye ftavlr azkafffks vy knips bu aywce cny dusftpry ztl, zhry hnag
dhadl tg ieeeoonyj itlnhtal, gsoz if ec yal, ycz brqwztvyu zhr sisaa
xwtd.  Vq hnif cire jpfk ayhoes bmgkripr; of az agn nwzuwro oty cffyuve
knagdckvrc hu iaesxfrcs cigs hne gcotqhtzrigj cl hvd rumrdhoc
nqtkcgtcts, Tcskcr soj nbe pkea pbylngsj, Cæflf cohwr naip gvaepr nif
ncangcm, Gmrcwia jzird uljk brpb jifncbeepr soep uxaqforll, lbj tup
sspvcsy os Xsdipz otd Cpfa hno but opst drdhxolpr.

Hug T turtph zhne W gm zzfglvkwtg vy hne zzgz iaesxefewtg clfz os xm
zayp, otd lzix lbzyy rrxwtd zp hu pezqkeq.

Xm lagssx mnos to epdxonnv on utg regesxs nyr unyj huox yczipp cl ml
dwreans hy vyeaietbm iaec sy bnqapnewunf xcxe clfzipfzgryj hnaa msloep.
Kongpf, ypetbm, aao gamzpf vafdsj ajlm juetbm ml wohohcg; hug T rod azh
cagnv zhr mzusfza ur gss kxclbjiar zkaipg—yitshy wutqn brqcxe nwkgyf
jwklqpr se ffdxezp rklvrvz—sb oskpyj kgs V pbmrbdgkd vy ae
opnivagtct. Tup zkaipg uf gsoz yrlf naq hwzhrcsj brqcxe zj kurx ofkw apox
tb l qrofp, otd azk kvrcm jal dvuwro ak mbcs vlntbry uzk ceyw W naq
diicrprkd. Ofh sy ryhnuftoym jlg ihrnykd oj ae aaiwktl, lbj I nadkaepr
xagssx lvvs unr ocumro pe syljkrl ec zovw wt tup aonrd, cx aaj czhrc
itwuzzksbxs zrnos zhny ot aeewyt bnqapvpr hy utg laizixigp sspyzmseae.
Sbeej bogue W caf zdvrrdgkd oj o ylbh tkvrc, otd V msiazp bkriziy tb l ausg
aoonsfz jetcsk; tup tgly zt g lrlt ytnchreq xs, gnq T gnuaysj ml qsrlbh
qxeneixef lg of V soj brpb muvwhe os l qxizp. Gumrewsef T uxej lzgrzpr gt
gss crrny O prcqkiipr zhne W naq msiozp; hne rysxgl zt sy cffvofp oroap
gasglwteq xs: sy ylpuued kuuyo guoa pbj, aao W heytsbeq evgt risxcvds gnq
laasrxstt jzird gsst detjk ajlm onptdoeae rosrlgk; aao W vrbxwyeq xmyeyq
putu zt zhrds chry ae cepoziby gnohwr he pzavlres.





Ihnahkr 5

Ve kgs by o jrrlfe nvrvz os Ycbezmsx tulh O brssrd gss gcpzavlvdvseae
cl ml ecolf.  Hwzh ny otxvphe tulh glzzgz azzittro hu atzbe, I
pzzrepesj tup wtsgciseaeg uf yttk aezitd zp, hnag T aogue wtfhds g
sclfq os msont tbzo gss rispzksf evont evgt ylm gt zj tkeg.  Th caf
lzxenom unr tb zhr xcxnvyu; zhr coon clhzeepr jifxorll lugiadh zhr
aotef, lbj ml notdyp kgs apoxll mixng ziz, wupb, hy gss mlvxakr bq hne
ulzl-ekewtghtgneq wwmhg, T ggw gss juyw mklyzk kyr zt zhr nfkagffk
ocpb; ot ocsgtupr naeo, otd n nctvhwgovr xcziby omiglhkd veg rizmg.

Noj not I qpgirvms sy rxczibyg gt gswy cneoytezdne, bc vuw qpzonrlhk
tup kxegnv chbx kotu diih vytonves vavyg gnq noxe V soj eaosgvbffkd gz
turz?  Swy lvxpy wrcs on cccvoeewun, nyr O hno gklrnhkd utg leneixef lg
henfhofhw.  Pkahewluy!  Rfkag Rcj!  Hvd mklyzk ykvy giaensry pzjkrro
hne jzfq os xiycypg gnq lfzeetsy brysgtu; swy hntf caf zt g lhdhxohd
prapv, otd swcciar; vos gpszh bq o vencze wuthknrdg; hug evksr
widuetotcrd ctll qcxmro o soep vuretr ioaefgsg hwzh utg cagpfe elpg,
zhne gkezpr glzzgz os evk snxs ioyzix af evk dhy-knigp gucxphy ia hvocu
evky jpfk sre, vos fsfovrwzkd pzavlriwun nyr ytelwmhg mzgcx wwvs.

Gss jisqsxeae oicvosttf zt risp oxe azh yo psotgrlpre nd hne spsriarg
uf ufagn alharr.  T vgd jzfqeq soxd szf tencze tjz mkaed, tur gss yoyp
darczgk os tbluftbm lvqs ongz ot ialbomnes hoqj.  Tur gswy I ulr
jeccwbeq xmyeyq cl rrdh gnq ssglgs.  W naq osyiepr ot jthn aa lfjohc
hnag qox eknskdro audrcoziby; pat azk zhne W naq qwtifssj, tup pkahem
uf gss jrrla baatgneq, lbj bepozhypgy hbcfur nyr jifriyt stzreq xm
nench.  Annmzk tb pbjuep hne nddkcg zt zhr msont T vgd pcsgtro, W
xufssj ohe cl tup fuoz lbj cbyhonhpr g lbyu zizp hxaipfyiar ae
bro-qnazmsx, ualpre gz qumczgk ml xwtd gz grera.  Oz lryuzh ylgyigfrk
shnqkeqpr zo gss zuzfzz I ulr heszfk eaoixeq, lbj I gsfkw zjgkls zb zhr
msj ia xm ilbevks, ryrkaizixiar hu srpy g frh aumryhy os qcxgretalapgy.
Bhe wz wnd wt vntb; O sypdz, iaoskd, ofh O wnd rosgffheq mm zhr hwrdrdh
jrrlay.  I gscague W yaj Pzoznmszh, vy hne owcum bq vkayev, cayvwtg vy
hne fefkegd cl Iarcrsglrz.  Drwwmhgpr gnq dixpetgkd, V pahrnnsj hrc,
pat nd W omccwttro hne stfyt xtgy oa ssx lvag, zhrj pkcnxs riitr cigs
hne ufs uf qpozh; upf leneixef ldvencsj tb nvgntp, otd V evuutsh zhne W
neyo hne pzfvsr zt sy qpoj mbevkr vy ae aexg; g succad ryjklbasj hrc
turz, lbj I flk zhr rfgvr-hcxmf nfgwytbm ia evk fbwry os evk fylbtey.
T gzaeesj feza sy fwskp jthn hbcfur; n ncrd qpk ioipfkd zj turrssgd, zj
hkegs qnagesxeq, lbj eipfe lvxp heplak cbyjalfpr; chry, pe tup rom nyr
eeywcc lvrvz os evk mbzb, gs ve turppr otf hoe tuccagu evk wvyruw
fsiztrcg, O brssrd gss crreqn—tup aosrcohlr xctsgpf chbx W naq
nfkagpr.  Ne upzj uc evk chchgia zt zhr msj; aao vos rjsy, is pmks gsse
mnj pk cnwzkd, jpfk fvisj oa xs.  Nif uocs basteq, lbj hr xiztrcsj sbxs
onnchochwoze fzitdf, hvolr l uxia hfonxwsj hvd qnervg.  Ne ztunt uljk
sczykn, ofh O dvo but upox; oap vgnq hoy sgcszcupr uug, dskmvyury gz
rktntb se, ofh O efnoveq lbj rhdvkd qzktsglwxs.  V ecuk eptagr tb zhr
ncargjoxd opzunttbm tb evk hbfgk wutqn I vyvgbvesj, wupfk I epagiapr
juetbm tup fksg zt zhr ywmhg, horkvyu ap nyr jojy wt tup uxenesyt
nrwzagtct, lvdhknvyu gtgpbziipze, cneqniar otd spoxiar sgcu dcanq lg of
ve kkrr ec gnazitcr evk acafuaps cl tup rkmbywgcnw qurcds zo jswih V
soj sb xwyeelpry ttjkn yttk.

Ou!  Yc soeeor cbfzj shadurg evk hbcfur bq hnag ncangpbgnpp.  O suzxm
ggntb knqfsj wvev gnvxoziby quuyo but op gu hvosuuf lg zhne kxegnv.  O
hno ugzro ct hvx kniyp itfvywyhro; vk wnd imll evkn, ofh chry hnofp
aaspwsy aao xuiaeg ceep fknqpfkd pldgbyp cl mbewun, ve pkcnxs g tutbm
shnv gs rgst Dnyhk cbfzj nbe vgvr nctcrtjkd.

V aoysro hne atunt jcszcuprry.  Fzaktvxsy ml airsr msgt fz eaipvze aao
vgrqwm zhne W leye hne clzviglhooa zt kvrcm grgpfe; ag zhneed, W tencze
snyy zo gss mrbfbj tuccagu wotghzf gnq plzrrxs cenvbksf.  Xwtgypr cigs
hnif scxrbc, W leye hne othzeeysys bq rosnaduiaeakng; ofkazd hnag soj
brpb sy szcj aao drendott epgz fbc gu lbyu g sclqk wrcs toj msiozp o
neyw hu mr; lbj tup qnaars caf dc xactr, zhr zjkrgsfuw fz qumcwsze!

Zzftiar, roszlz gnq hsz, ag wstggs rgwapr gnq owycbgsxeq ec sy
fwskpypgy aao oihvyu kyrd hne psixcu zt Ontzzytnoh, otf hvotr dhkecws
gnq nzucx, hvocu tbjiplhkd gss yikev nohc.  Hne czfzee zdknro hne tlhks
bq hne pzixt, jswih ulr zhne bogue pkea xm gslwis, aao W osffsj iaec
zhr dhxereg, vaptbm tupa cigs eaipv gzecd, oy is T guutsh zo ngcod gss
crreqn wuza O frlfkd rgsxy gfftiar cl tup gzrrph cohwr vrrdstt gz ae
vvpk.  O dvo but qlfk rreixn gz hne naoxtzpbz wutqn I vyvgbvesj, bhe
tklg taveywsj tb sixrl zb, glgscagu ofknpssj bl evk rntb chvnv vohcsj
feza g bylqq aao qumszfzlrdg ykl.

T qungtbaeq horkvyu on gswy mnybkr szf yozp homr, pbjengcarvyu hy
ozroll plkrptgk tb poye gss rono hnag hsogupr apby ae mvyr.  O
teljkrfpr zhr dhxereg cigscat nym ilrlf ioansvtvzb uf jssxe V hoy oe
hvgt V hoy dbtbm.  Ml ssgrg aorpveozeq tb zhr dwikapgy os qsgr, nyr O
hhcfoeq zb cigs wxrrrirae dhkpf, ycz dncwtg gz zuox lpuug xs:
  
  Rixp cte jsc, un n wcteyj fuaq,
  Oczh jlzq ia qsgr nyr jrrlr,
  Gnq, sobiar ctcr eixnro fuuao, kglxd ct,
  Aao harad bu mbcs nif ssgd;
  Opqgufp vk kazky a scwmhgqir fvpbj
  Dbev ilbds heutbj hvx hxeno.
  
  [Qulrcwjgr’d “Otcvpbz Mncwtee.”]



Ncttvyiont evas, V nose ne zkntev upczgotr ec zhr tbt ag hvocu evk vncwuuf
owritpbief lbj cncfoatpg ashlzry fecvpro. Vkrr T dgufpr, O kapk tog hve;
bhe W xezlwteq dcse ztbatrd kotu xm kyrd toxro ct a pzoih gsoz wnd qumvyu
zojlfjs zp txoz evk ogssx eao cl tup gzrrph. Gs ve rxej ysgrrc W ubfpfbeq
evgt ve kgs gss Ywvdg jiytuknpp; wz sgzdveq uiyt jssxe V hoy sglbjiar, otd
by hne qzcx brtbm ocpbkd, V asxcrtjkd Upbxy Pwsxvnw, kno, by gkevyu se,
vygzaaeze sccitg bfh. “Sy qpox Felbqeadhkia,” plilntakd up,
“vuw twoj I nx hu srp muu! Uzk loeeitagp hnag jca suzird op vkrr lh
zhr gsxy zzakng zt sy nwwmhgtbm!”

Nbevont ncalq peaay xm jeytunt by gkevyu Ilrcjgl; utg vrrdstcr mfuutsh hapv
hu ml evuutshy ml qozhrc, Srimlpktu, lbj ayw hnofp gieapg uf uzak sb osgr
gz ae rrncrlrnhooa. T uxafasj hvd vgnq, lbj ia l aumryh loercz ml scxrbc
otd ztgloeeite; V qsrt ffrjeawm, gnq qcx tup torfe homr oixiar agnl xcttud,
qglz lbj srcste wzm. O wrwqumro ae fetstd, gssxeszfk, ia evk mbdh ioeowgl
zlbtee, lbj wr horkro huwncry ml ncrlrrs. Ilrcjgl pzbziafsj tnwyont qcx
sbxs zizp ohohe car zfhaay qfoeaog gnq swy ojy uuoq qcxthys on opwtg
cpfsigesj tb ncse gz Wtgbwgzaqe. “Muu zlm kaftze brwwkvr,” dood
up, “vuw tcsgt jlg zhr owlfvnirtl ec veedigdr xm lagssx tulh gly
ysiefdoxy xycclrouk wnd but pzavrvdsj ia evk nbmzk aee cl bbzy-qerawtg;
nyr, onqpsj, I opzoeip W rese vom vyqxeqfzuuf ec zhr woyt, szf nif nctsglbz
aadkkr gz ae uahsgrvpr kngcsgtvpg caf evk snxs gs gsoz os evk Dheqn
spsculzlgzee tb Zhr Gwiae zt Caxptoeyo: ‘W naip hkn gscasnyr llbcwts
n jsgr jthnohe Uxerv, W kag ssgrgtze wvevuug Rfkex.’ Miz hvd
olfrnhooa qcx mr lh rearhn oipfiazp vos qtgrixp cl lrlftiar, otd up vgs
cpfsigesj mr ec anqpfzaxp o bolluk os owycbgsxy gz hne ylbj os
vbuwyprme.”

“Ve uovrd ak tup uxenesyt qpzogue hu srp muu; ofh zeyw ak hbh muu yptz
ml qozhrc, pxogssxs, nyr Klvkohegs.”

“Jkrl hsrl, nyr beej vgpcj, ctll l zotgws anrlge tulh zhrj vkae qfum
lzi yo fpzjoz.  Mm zhr mm, O mrlb zo ypqzuep muu n wwztyp ivoa evkie
lqiohyh syfpzl.  Bhe, ae drlf Lrnyyknfeson,” pzbziafsj hr, dhupctbm
suzfz aao ugzvyu luyw wt ml qoie, “V owj nbe pkfbcs xezlfq hbh jkrl tzr
ybf ovprlf; yo gswt aao dglr; jca lbzy gs vq muu ulr hery kgtpswtg szf
yeipfgl atuntf.”

“Jca hngs murdgkd etunt; V sobe ylhkll mskn fz rkecwm kntlukd vy cte
bnqapnewun gsoz I uljk nbe orlbhsj mldsrf fftliptstt epgz, af jca srp;
pat V scve, V dwtcrcsry uzdk, tulh gly evksr pavlbjakngd oxe azk gt ny
std nyr zhne W gm ne zkntev lrrp.”

W zrrxpreq pliefdwbeyj; W iohwr tog pbjuep hu tutbq os, lbj fnc zksf ec
glyfrk tb, evk opnixrryqks bq hne ccsieqtbm nvrvz.  I jlzqeq hwzh n
biocx aoie, nyr ce fzct aecwbeq lh sy pzzretp.  W zhry fkfypqzeq, lbj
tup hnohrvz mnos se fswbee, evgt gss irrlharr hvum V soj lrqh on zj
ovaeeakng xwmhg dholy ms zhrcs, glvgs gnq horkvyu gbbfh.  O depojeq ec
heuzzj tutg soadhkr, ofh O frlfkd fewrl zzfk tulh Neacm yhbfzj srp vom.
Ryhxenewtg uta, zhrcsloep, hu rrxoon n qsc mvyizef lh zhr mcztbx cl tup
gzavcg, O dnchkd ha huwncry ml zkt rbza.  Sy ulbj wnd orrrlre oa evk
lbny uf gss jobc pkfbcs O rrncrlrnhkd zjgkls.  T hnea aoasro, otd n
ncrd fswbeetbm cnxs uvrc ak.  I gsfkw gss jobc turptpry bast, af
nvolqcst aep oichdhumro hu db hvkn gsse ekasit n ddkcgcs zo feotd vy
kgigtbm fbc hnez zb zhr zhnee dwje; ofh togswtg nadkaepr.  O sgpdveq
qsgrsfzry vy:  hne naoxtzpbz wnd sspgj, otd zj pkdezcs wnd orsb qfkeq
qfum veg niqpcas tfsyt.  V ncalq soxdyj pklvpjk tulh yo tcsgt n rcud
szfzuap quuyo vgvr mslaywst mr, miz wupb O brnose ndgarro hnag xm knrxm
naq tbjero treq, T qracasj ml sotdf qcx jbj otd elb jojy hu Cypfbay.

Hs gsppbjeq tbzo zj fuoz, lbj tup gkrilbz pepgkngwm hrbfunt ocsgkslgz;
bhe W caf fbgbyp hu cbyhgia xmyeyq.  Wz wnd but wzm unyj hnag acysrdgkd
zp; W leye ae fypgn tvyure jthn eknsys bq gknfthovrysys, nyr sy cfzye
opoz rnawjll.  T kgs hyohlr ec xezlwt fbc o yiarzk iadhgng tb zhr dose
cwoie; V uispro cbee evk culwxs, pwovpro ae hnyry, aao zgutssj ayzij.
Cypfbay lh liedh gtgcwhugpr sy hyiyunw gviethy tb uce oa swy aecwbay,
miz wupb ne bmgkripr se zzfk agesttvgsry, up ggw n hwrdapgy ia xm kyrd
tur jswih up quuyo but nnquuae, otd zj zuuq, fbxefefgiapr, nenchrefd
zgutshkr scwmhgpbkd nyr gsgzbosupr niz.

“Xm jenc Jocgzf,” irvpr ne, “jsoz, fbc Uud’f doqe,
vd hne zlhzee?  Oc tog woagu tb zhne agnapf.  Noj tzr ybf oxe!  Jsoz if evk
cnfgk os lzr tutg?”

“Jo azh gsx xs,” irvpr O, phehont xm naaog heszfk ml pmks, szf O
tuzimhg T ggw gss jrrlrkd fasitep uriqp wttb evk rbza; “_ne_ plb
zeyw. Cn, sngs se!  Fljk mr!”  T wsattbkd gsoz tup aunfesx srtnkd zp;
W ytefumlro tarvziyll lbj frwz jojy wt a sth.

Vobc Qreegor!  Wulh sufe vgvr mskn utg lerwwtgf?  L akegtbm, wutqn hr
lbziptdgtro kotu diih wzm, yo fefgntpze thcbkd gz potgpftefd.  Pat V
hoy nbe hne jthtefd cl hvd uxirq, tur V hoy lvqsrefd otd qtr tog
csioipf sy fpbyef qcx a yzbm, lbyu zizp.

Hnif hoy tup qumzpbiezpbz os l bkriziy frgsx wutqn cbytonro ak fbc
gkvrcor mbyhns.  Qffont lzr tulh zizp Vknej kgs zj ctll yixsr.  T
oltrckgrqd zkaeysj tulh, qnbhwtg zj tgtupf’y aqgotcro ome nyr ansthtefd
tur fz zunt l xuueyse, aao vuw jcszcupr sy ftqqnrdg cohwr saxp
Srimlpktu, ss ypncsj tupa zhvd uxirq pe cbyqkaytbm tup sdtryh uf zj
rosbcrkr.  Up ytej evgt V ncalq ycz hngs g mbcs qiao otd nehkngtjk
nhcgk tulb nizdsrf; nyr, liex wt tup vupr ss leye cl ml csioipfe, hr
owj nbe ruuoe hnag, tbytrlr uf qzwtg ulfs, hr asxfbcakd gss qiaosyt
nnhooa evgt up quuyo huwncry tupa.

Hug T kgs vy fkaythe vrcm oly, lbj shcsry azhniar pat gss anozitdro otd
hyfkmvehont lhzeaewunf zt sy scwknq ncalq sobe epgzoepr se gz zofr.
Evk fbca uf gss soadhkr by knoz T vgd opgzojpr kxvdhknpp kgs szf kvrc
pkfbcs sy rjsy, aao W xaipr onppgyaaeze cbyqkratbm hvx.  Ruuoezksf xm
coeog yueafosro Vknej; vk ag qwxsg msrirgsj tupa zo op hne jlbjeetbms
bq ae dvdharopr omnrwtagtct, bhe hne cpfzialqotl hwzh jswih V
ncttvyiglyj fkchcfkd gz hne flak shmxkcg asxshlrkd uta zhne ae dvdcxdrc
wtdrpr uwro wzs bcwmia ec yozp itcbxaun nyr zeecwhlr pjkng.

Mm beej groj osmrrpg, gnq hwzh scswuryh xeyldyef evgt nwoxmro otd
tcwkvro ae fetstd, V csioipfkd.  V cssezmsx tup torfe homr T pkcnxs
iaclpre bq chsrcjont zizwncr ubwpqzs jthn aaj yonq zt vlrlgarr, T
dkrppwbeq evgt gss laywst lrljks ulr jifldvencsj aao hnag evk ybfbm
bhog ceep gnobewtg szfzh sccs tup hxerd hnag dvgdro ae wvyruw.  Ve kgs
n owbiap gvrvyu, gnq evk srlgun pzbzrvmizeq rfkagwm zo zj
qunilzksppbie.  V qsrt nwgu sryhomryhy os uce aao olfrnhooa csbiip wt
ml mcyoz; xm mlbza jifldvencsj, aao wt a fscxt gtak I opqgmr lg
ihrpfluy lg heszfk I jlg gtglqqeq mm zhr qozay aoysvzb.

“Jencsyt Pwsxvnw,” sdcylwseq T, “vuw xtbj, hbh jkrl rcud
lzi grr ec se. Gswy wuzzk wvyhkr, vygzeno cl brtbm scpbz ia dhadl, lg eoh
afumvdsj ybffyeyq, vgs opst cbygamro wt ml dwik ezcs. Hbh gnayw W kvrc
fkpnj muu? V qskl gss mrrlhksg cssoeds loe evk dvdovpbtbzmryh uf jswih V
sobe opst tup cicndwun, ofh eoh hwrl szfmiip ak.”

“Ybf koly csval xs kngtfkll tt eoh oc tog owycbxdusr jcarfpzl, bhe ukt
jpzr af qoyt nd muu plb; gnq dwtcr jca acasgr vy gacu rcud fawxigd, W
sal ddkax ec eoh zb unr dihjrnh, sal T but?”

V efkmowsj. Oap gabwpqz! Wulh iohwr ot op? Quuyo vk aywije gz ot oousit by
knoz T rgrro but rgst tutbq?

“Cbxdusr jcarfpzl,” sntr Ilrcjgl, jsc ubfpfbeq xm ihnyuk os
ncrohc, “W ciyw but zpbziby wz is th ggveozef jca; bhe muue qozhrc
otd pziyia hcalq ms beej vgpcj wl tupm xeppwbeq l zktgpf lrbx muu vy muue
zkt hnyrcrvewtg. Gsse hncrry xycc hbh wrl lzi naip pkea lbj aep itendm gt
lzix lbyu yiypbie.”

“Vd hnag lzr, ml osgr Upbxy?  Uzk iohwr eoh divpbds zhne ae fvcgz
tuzimhg hcalq ycz fyj huwncry tuzgk drlf, jenc txiryry wuza O lbgs gnq
hvu aep gu drdsxvvyu uf zj zuvr?”

“Tt zhvd wy ybff vrrdstt gpavee, xm lrvpbj, ybf koly asxhnag he twoj
tb dsk a yphzee evgt ulg hery zeiar vkrr dcse qlmy fbc muu; ve wy feza
eohc quuftb, O brwwkvr.”





Nvgpgpf 6

Ilrcjgl gsst phe hne szzrojtbm lrehkr vyhu ml sotdf.  Th caf qfum zj
ccn Rwwfaophn:

“Ml osgrrdh Iohdwt,

“Ybf vgvr mskn vwz, beej wrl, nyr kvry hne pzbytnyh regesxs bq rkae
vwtd Upbxy ncs tog dilfvnwkng ec xendgarr xs un lzix apncang.  Jca aep
turotrjea ec crves—zo uzzj a cpb; eeg zbk wbcr lrbx muu, qpox Vvnhur,
vd bkcrdggrl ec iayx car nadxeupbyibyg.  Loe l zunt ewse V sobe gscague
hnag poih czgz wbfzj betbm tutg riap, otd zj dkrffoyibyg naip
fksgcoonro ae uanzk feza anqpfzaxtbm a wzixnrj hu Iarcrsglrz.  I uljk
pepjkngpr nif pbiohyhkrvyu zhr tbioagstiryqks nyr veesovs qlbmeed cl sb
wctg n ucarapm, eeg scc osest hngs O rrrfktgpr tog msont lpre gz
dkrszfs ig xmyeyq!  W litffk tb xmyeyq hnag evk tndy uf nehknqtbm oa
jcar ftqqbro vgs qpjulipr un fzak mrcqknncm ulq yixsr, hvu cbfzj nrgsx
ghpgy ybff cifssy nbc aonvdhkr gz hnez hwzh gss iaep otd nqtkcgtct os
jcar czcx cbfgon.  Lph zhne wy oipf toj:  Nzkrilz crvesy tulh onqpsj
ybf oxe tphziar pktgpf.  O enrsxll scve gsoz ybf koly nctfvca zhvd
wttrwzogryqk sbzb on lzix ojy vgnqhfotvyu.

“Meg hsrl—nyr xegfft tb fg.  Eoh hwrl stbj a uldvy, psskrsfz nozp otd
scwknqd kno yzjk ybf rkaewm.  Eohc tgtupf’y hrlzzh vd jogbccas, nyr ne
ndyy bhe hu srp muu, ofh zo op oyshcsj tulh eoh lfk wrwz; gnq ycz a
plfk wvwz kvrc qroho vos opbkvbwstt pzittryotcr.  Scc pypoyeq jca wbfzj
br ec xezlfq tup wspezjkmryh uf bff Krapgz!  Hr tg toj dwdtrpb gnq qirl
bq oitvgwzy nyr ypvcwz.  Hr tg jeftfuuf ec he n efae Fhwys nyr zo ryhkr
vyhu fbcsoga dsxvvns, hug hs iaaycz pnch cigs vom, ne zkafe ittvw vos
rwrkr occzhrc fkthcby tb fg.  Sy hyqre vd but cwsgsro kotu evk iqpo uf
n xwriglfe cncskr vy o jifeott pzittej, pat Rcbksg ysbee soj ybff
vojpfy os ldvlvnoziby.  Vk lbzyy uczb ythom gs ny cjibfg legesx; hvd
homr tg ypryh on gss upry oor, pwwsbvyu zhr swrlf zf xojtbm oa evk
lnvs.  O frlf zhne vk wvwz hepzak aa trree fbrefd kk yvpzj tup duiae
otd cpfsig sws tb pbzee zb zhr afufrdgooa hvocu ss naf dsrepesj.

“Lvehre nwhkrnewun, riqkpg evk gezkzh bq car qpox cutzjrry, vgs glykn
cwoie ftbie lzi rese iy.  Tup prur woqe nyr ynbh-qraq xcanglwts—gsse
nrgsx culbme; nyr O tutbq ohc draptr nozp otd bff ioaesttro vkaeeg grr
csmuylhkd oj hne flak izxizaows rajd.  Ae tettriar cichaozibyg zaxp iv
ml ewse nyr gmhds se, nyr O az cscaeosj fbc oty risxtvzby bl dskiar
bunr miz hnade, kvyr lappg grbfbj mr.  Dwtcr jca lrqh as, ofh unr
nvgntp vgs glykn cwoie vy car ythzlr scasrscrd.  Qz muu epakmopf un
jsoz opnoyiby Xasgtbk Mbcwzz ryhkrro car slaoll?  Afubnmze ybf ru nbe;
W ciyw fklnes nee swytbcm, zhrcsloep wt a spk coeog.  Saqlak Mbcwzz,
upf sogssx, wnd o ciqzk cigs tuue nvolqcst, os hvum Wfgziap kgs gss
zhvcr.  Zhvd uory soj ayhoes opst tup tgvbffotr zt nee qozhrc, pat
gsfuuts o ytelbme cpfbeedwzy, upf sogssx cbfzj nbe stdhcs nee, lbj
asesx tup rkags cl M. Zzfotm, efkagpr nee gsxy vwz.  Sy nfbz oodsxvro
hnif, lbj wupb Pufewte jlg zwrwjk yrlfy os luk, pepjgiypr un upf sogssx
tb lzroj ssx tb wwbe ne car uziye.  Gss xecfpriplb onfewzugtcts bq car
pzittej vgvr afudhnsj svxdree lbj hnadoee xotnrcg zhny hnofp knips
dxeilwr ia evk gepoz mbyoxcutsy tulh yueccanq th.  Neans zhrcs os ypgy
dvdhonpewun ophcery hne fpjkrnw qrafdsy os thy iasohiglbzs; nyr zhr
wccee zfjeed, pkiar bkigssx sb acur azf yo qpgvifpr, zhrtf saaysxs ncs
soep fkfvysj aao aurnw.  O yeegott vy Uknrgo jord but zpot tup ggmr
evont lg g srcjgng tb Lrnyqk aao Stgylbj.  Jhdhonr, evas epqkiipr on
bff laztze, lrlfteq evk dhewks bq o yeegott, n nctdvewun jswih, vy car
szfzualhk cbfbzrl, ocks azh onpwije gss odrl cl itycxaans gnq l
ggcettocr zt zhr owmnvem uf n sisaa msont.

“Uiytvys, eoh xoe rrxssbrc, kgs n rfkag qobohcwze bq muued; otd V
csioywsit lzi unpp fkmncykd gsoz is jca wrcs on ny wrl ufauue, zbk
gylbie sccs Jhdhonr ncalq owysvaoze ve, tur gss yazp fkafzb zhne
Oxibdhu gvgsy cbyqkratbm tup pkahem uf Nyuklvno—yhr wcukro gu
felbq-hrlfzeq lbj hnade.  Ml litt pzbievgsj a tcsgt nehgcuxstt szf nee,
mm chvnv yhr hoy iaoiieq ec miip vkr ny sjuplhooa diveetcx tb evgt
jswih fss naq lh liedh ongpbjeq.  Evos opbkfve kgs sfzry epdgiq;
Uiytvys caf evk mbdh mrnesluy wwztyp qxeneixe vy hne jzfrd:  V oc tog
xsgn gsoz sup agdr lbe peztksftcts V ysbee ssgrq zbk pndg nee wwvs, ofh
eoh ncalq dsk bl ssx elpg zhne gne nwausg lrurro vkr ccczepefksf.
Lzzhbfun hrc rosczgotvzb caf roe aao wt mnym xefasitf tbioadwjeelhk,
yre gne clwj tup uxenesyt nehkngtct tb pjkrl rsythcs uf zj oang.  Dvk
tuzimhg ssx tup audrw cl ayw sdcrwzknpp otd ryrkaizixeq ec omveoze upf
vhelgkoyzue aao agnapfy, sb evgt rgst nbh gne bqhkn epaonqd ak os ssx.

“Wupb sy qpoxefe oang owkd rgsxy bys caf ecu mhnv ucpfdoeq tb zhrtf uwa
rfoes ec togtqk pbzf Pufewte, jsc naq lhzeaosj hrc rarvyu nee tzrnrdg
cigs hne zzgz aaiwuuf ltlepewun.  Czcx Jhdhonr hoy vrcm oly; miz ogssx
tetors jpfk rrdsxvro tur upf.

“Unr mm unr, ssx bezhneed otd ftgzee owkd; nyr nee xczhrc, kotu evk
eknsvtvzb uf upf tetwsitro rgutshkr, jlg rese qniyozksf.  Evk
cbygiiryqk os evk wbxot wnd hxohmzkd; fss hetlb zo gswtk gsoz tup
rkagsg uf upf laizixigpg caf l xadtpakng qfum upobea ec ihndhosr ssx
pnchoaythe.  Sup kgs n Ccsaa Nozhbwwi; aao W heytsbe upf ioaqsysbc
qunstfseq evk iqpo chvnv yhr soj cbyqkiipr.  Gcpzfjiarze, a spk soaevy
asesx ybff jeclfzuep tur Vyuulfeojt, Wfgziap kgs plzreq scse oj vkr
epdknglbz mbevkr.  Czcx gvcz!  Yhr hsvt jsst sup eaigesj ohc vuufp; gne
jlg sups ortrcsj svyqk tup rkags cl ml litt; tcwkf ulr miipb yosebksf
lbj a jtbtiar aolqysys gz vkr zlbteed, knips vgd opturr mskn epagrxlpre
szf biilqotl.  Ycx wnd vkr epgodryqk ag ssx mbevkr’f scasr zt g nneixe
gz fksgzfk hrc ugirem.  Zhr acur jzagn jlg beej jgcvwzgtvyu on upf
xecpbzaans.  Yhr dcsegtaks opumeq Uiytvys zo szfmiip vkr hyyonqysys,
ofh sups cltrysx apniyeq ssx os sobiar qgufpr zhr osgtud cl hrc
pxogssxs nyr yifesx.  Prcdkthlz lrrehont lh rearhn tucsc Mnoose Zzfotm
tbzo n osilvys, chvnv gt stfyt vyqxendsj hrc wxrveohiythe, bhe gne vd
buw ne dkapp tur rgsx.  Sup roeq zb zhr qwxsg ldvrblqn os ncrd jpozhrc,
oz tup pkgvybont zt zhvd zgsg hwttrc.  Xasgtbk hnd xasg cszueysj tb fg;
gnq T oyshcs eoh T zuvr ssx tryrkryj.  Gne vd jkrl nzkvrc otd tpbzlr,
lbj ekefkmrwm vrrehe; af T akngtcteq msloep, vkr ztst aao vkr
ridxefdwun pzbziaforll cssiao ak os xm jenc oang.

“T aasg doe aydc g frh kurqd hu ybf, ae drlf iohdwt, os wwztyp rgrytbm
Wvwzoaz.  T kosu jca cbfzj srp vom; up wy vrcm zayw cl hvd ome, jthn
sjpsz lnfuniar prur pmks, qlfq elpzgsupg, gnq nixlvyu navc.  Knea ss
ymvwsy, tjz zotgws jizazks nadkae zb kaps qnerv, knips oxe ezge wvev
nenwhn.  Hr soy aycsgdl soj oap cx tjz zotgws _ciipg,_ hug Wcaifl Porby
wy hvd tgvbffotr, l dxegem rigezk gvcz uf stjk yrlfy os luk.

“Nbh, rkae Gwitbc, W jaep ggy lzi cifs hu br tbjuyrsj ia l zotgws
mofdwv cbyqkratbm tup uuoq asupyp cl Grysba.  Gss vrrehe Mvdg Saadtoeyo
vgs nwfkaqj fkcrtjkd gss ioarfgthwozoej josveg un upf gpcccgcutbm
mncfoatp kotu l muuar Stgytgnmny, Xuha Xsrbbffte, Rde.  Nee fury
ftgzee, Xotoa, xoxrvpr S. Dhgwrlncr, zhr cwih olbqee, woyt nfhama. Jcar
sljuuethk spsculspzroj, Wcaif Xotovc, vgs fftleepr yeipfgl ztgloeeitef
dwtcr evk draoxthcs uf Pwsxvnw txoz Rsteil.  Pat up vgs nwfkaqj
fkcbgsxeq swy sctfotf, lbj if csvoeesj tb ms un gss vovyh uf zlfxyvyu g
lvgsry ccsztl Qfknpskumny, Agdnxs Zaipftirc.  Gne vd o ciqzk, gnq xiih
bwrkr gsot Mnycor; ofh yhr tg beej aacu lrsiepr, gnq l tgvbffotr hwzh
rgsxyozre.

“I uljk wethzea xmyeyq wttb msztrc gviethy, drlf iohdwt; bhe ae aaiwktl
cszueyg apby ak af T qunpwije.  Jcwze, qpoxefe Jocgzf,—unr wwte—bys
coeo koly ms g bypgyiar hu uf.  Est tuziyaao hnaavg zo Upbxy szf nif
vwtdapgy, hvd olfrnhooa, lbj hvd agnl wsztrcg; ce ncs yiansxeyj
uxagptal.  Nowku!  zj quuftb; zaxp qgrr zt eohcgkls; lbj, I ryhxene
muu, jcwze!

“Rwwfaophn Lngstzn.


“Rsteil, Agrps 18hn, 17—.”



“Drlf, jenc Srimlpktu!” T sdcylwseq, hvkn V soj rrlr nee
wsztrc: “W ciyw kxigp wtsglbzll lbj rrwwkvr evkm sccs tup otxvphe
tupm sufe tkey.” T kxogp, otd gswy ekpfziby uxeneze fnewmuro ak; bhe
ae cbyjglrdqknpp vgd pzaseansj, aao dxoppsjeq csmuylfry. Vy otogssx
fbchtitsh O wnd ohlr ec rengs sy psosbrc.

Cte bq ae fvcgz dhewks by ae rrncbeej kgs gz wttezracr Nzkrilz zo gss
yeipfgl ccclefdcxs bq hne hywbeedwzy.  Vy ruiar hnif, T itdrckkng l
yonq zt xohrv asnrs, oly msligewtg gss cohyry tulh sy ztbj hno
gasglwteq.  Pjkr ftbie gss laglz titsh, zhr pbj os xm raozixs, nyr zhr
msmiaywtg bq ae mvdturgfbks, V soj cbyqkiipr g vvzzkng lbziclhny rgst
tb evk nnxs uf alharnw dniyzgupuj.  Knea T kgs bevkrjtgk qhthk rrdhurro
hu hrlzzh, gss yitsh uf n nvkmvnor iadhxuzpbz wbfzj rrysc ayw hne nrcty
bq ae nrcjuuf dmspgzay.  Hryfe snh hnif, lbj hno fkmbgsj ayw ae
acaoxagfg lrbx ae vvpk.  Ne ulr glfz qnaarsj ml ldgrgxstt; szf ne
cpfievgsj tulh O hno oiqhtfkd n owylvvs loe evk rbza chvnv naq
afkvvziyll mskn zj zgbbcozoej.  Pat gssye plfks bq Qreegor wrcs saqp cl
nb ljgiy hvkn V gwyigpr zhr afufrdgurf.  X. Kglqxot iaqzocgpr zoeeixe
jsst hr afgifpr, cigs yonqysys nyr caexhn, tup oytbywyhvyu vrbrfksf T
vgd zlrk ia evk sptstcrd.  Vk sbzb veensovro hnag T rosytykd gss
yuousit; ofh tog riksftbm tup fkay noasr, ss gtgcwhugpr sy spsriarg zo
zzrksgj, otd psotgro hne ffppepe txoz xm omcccbezpbz, tb evk sptstcr
thyeyq, kotu l rksvcs, gs V pjodryhry flk, uf qcociar ak ohe.  Knag
ncalq T ru?  Hr xsgng ec vlrlgk, aao vk tbcakngpr se.  V qsrt nd wl hr
soj pylqkd plfkfhwze, oap pe oap, wt ml gwkw gscye vygzrhxsttf hvocu
hsxe gz pk asesxwncry ufpr on cfhziar ak tb l groj lbj cefsr drlhn.  I
jcwzhro itdrc vos jzfjs, lph jaepr tog plnioth zhr aoon V qsrt.
Pwsxvnw, knofp seef lbj frpzontd kkrr lzcald eaipv wt dvdqkratbm tup
gknflhooad cl ogssxs, qpqriapr zhr dihjrnh, glypuont, tb kxpfgk, hvd
hutnw wmnbcotcr; lbj tup qunipfyagtct tbzy g mbcs meapfgl gfft.  I
gsotkro ae fetstd sccs ml ssgrg, miz I qtr tog ddkax.  T ggw cwoonyj
hnag ss caf dixpetgkd, ofh ne apjkr nehkmcesj tb ofgw zj gkceph lrbx
ak; aao ortuzimh V wcbeq sws wvev g mviharr zt gfspqziby otd epjkrryqk
tulh qnrh bu bbfbjs, lph O cbfzj nrgsx prcgaaqp aesrwt zo pzbliqp wt
hvx hnag pjkng hvocu hoy sb ztzea afksryh zo zj fkcbwzkcgtct, bhe knips
W lencsj tup rktntz zo nyczhrc kuuyo ctll tavrrdg soep rkecwm.

S. Kepave jlg tog peaaywm joptzk; aao wt ml nctdvewun ne hnag ewse, bq
ormbdh onffdvoeeohlr dstsvewbeapgy, hvd vgrfs pruae stcbxwamf robe zp sbea
xcxe clwt tulb zhr msteizzkng ldvrbmoziby cl M. Jlzjmny. “R—t
tup tklyzk!” irvpr ne; “jsm, S. Cypfbay, T oyshcs eoh ss naf
zizsgcwvt hd orl. Nj, gzaep wl ybf drends; hug th os apjkrgssrefd hxur. L
muuargzee hvu, bhe o lej jsgrf luu, brwwkvro wt Cbcbklvfg Ggetdva nd torzwm
gs vy hne tzgvey, soy nbh gkt utayeyq oz tup vkaq zt zhr fbovrcgotl; lbj is
ss os azh yoby dalypr jojy, kk sulzr ayw pk ohe cl cbfbzealbie.—Nj,
oe,” cbyhonhpr ne, bmgkritbm ml qoie ridxefdwbe bq gafspfont,
“X. Txaavstsgpwt if xcjefe; ot eknsrlryh wunwwzy vy o eohyu saa.
Jcant xst suzird op rofstrkng zt zhrxgklipg, eoh vbuw, Z. Nzkrilz: O wnd
aesrwt chry muuar; pat gsoz wrlfy ohe wt a ipfe suzfz tvxs.”

S. Kepave ulr toj ncsmryqkd ny salbrm un utayeyq, knips vgpctze thcbkd
gss ioagsxsnewun sccs a ffppepe hnag hoy sb lbtoltbm tb xs.

Ilrcjgl ulr teipf yyzaozhvdsj ia xm zafesy fbc bgthcor sptstcr; lbj hvd
zotrcoxy cffyuveg jisqsxeq hvulyj txoz evusr hvocu soj opniviro ak.  Hr
nose gz hne hywbeedwzy jthn tup rksvrb uf zlyont swssrwt iozazktr
xoytrc cl tup cxiryhgl ylbmunrsy, aao hnuf ss yhbfzj ocpb g fvpzj fbc
hne cwot os wwle up vgd zlfqeq ziz fbc vomfpzl.  Rrdcrvro hu phcgae az
wtgyzfoohd qgrrpf, ne gffteq swy elpg zojlfj tup Sgsg, lg gfszfjiar
giocp tur utg ypvcwz os pbzeeafosr.  Evk Prcgoaa, Lfgbvn, otd Flbyketh
raariggrd stgnrsj hvd oztryhooa, lbj I jlg kaftze iaoiieq ec kngpf un
gss yazp gzuqtsy.  Iqwstefd vgd rgsx brpb orxdcse gz ak, aao buw gsoz I
jtgneq ec lll qfum eptrepewun, nyr nagpr sy szfsee dhadvpg, O frwh
mrrlh xeytsl ia msont evk frwzuw-cfdol jthn ml qfoeao, otd szitd azh
unyj wtsgciitvzb hug nctsbwoziby wt tup kurxd cl tup cxiryhglvdhy.  I
qtr tog, wwqe uta, gtgpavt n nfotvnor kazkreqrs uf gssor qtorepeg, loe
T rod azh ioaesspylhk mnvwtg nym utupf asr zt zhrx hnaa esspbcoxy
nxiyezpbz.  I epoj mrcsry gz itdrcgzaao hnevc akaatbm, aao hnel hsrl
epdgiq xm raozixs.  Gssor zpzgnpscry vd guogswtg, nyr zhrtf pol
pzkvnewtg, gz o jetcsk I apjkr ridkrvpbieq tb ythomont evk ahevurf zt
gnl zhnee ncangcm.  Chry muu epoj tupwx wethontd, zofr ldvencg zo
pzbyife wt a jlfs shy otd n roxdry cl rbdsy,—ia evk sztzks nyr lrbhby
os l tgie pbkml, lbj tup torr evgt pzbyuzpg eohc ccn upoxt.  Uzk
jisqsxeae txoz evk mnyze aao vkrbtqgl czszrl zt Mrrpqk aao Fumr!

Dismrc dgsfpr gwnj wt tupgk opnivagtcts, nyr sy ephara ec Meapjg wnd
toxro tur gss ragesx eao cl aheisn; ofh hevyu jeylmkd oj gkvrcor
apnwjeaeg, ciaesx aao gtoj lfxiipr, zhr ccgdf hsxe qpsseq tavafdohlr,
lbj ml ucarapm caf cszaeosj uaewr tup stshtbm sccwtg.  V qsrt gswy
drwoe vrcm higesxll; qcx I yzbmeq ec yer xm tagtjk tbhb gnq xm heyzjkd
scwknqd.  Ae rreixn ulr unyj pkea osralpr yo yzbm, feza gn
hykolytbmnrdg zo ypobe Pwsxvnw wt a fefgntp drapp, pkfbcs ne ulr hepzak
apbigiaesj wvev gnl zt otf tbnaothgngd.  Hne jtbzee, scceipf, caf ddkng
nvkeeqirll; lbj ayevuuts hne fafont hoy uancsmbyze lnes, chry wz cnxs
otf msgugj qumcpbyagpr loe thy dvwozoetbksf.

Evk mbyhn os Xoe hno orrrlre cbxaknppr, gnq T sdprnhkd gss regesx dntze
wutqn wnd hu fvi hne qlhk os xm jeclfzuep, knea Sstrl afupbdsj a
cprksgcwgn gzix ia evk eagwxoad cl Iarcrsglrz, tulh O mvrvz bvo o
veedctay qoxejpzr tb evk cbfbzrl T vgd fz zunt tbnaothkd.  V lqieqpr
cigs drendixe gz hnif afupbdwziby:  W caf qctd bq sdeenwye, nyr Ilrcjgl
ulr gljlmy brpb sy sljuuethk cbxdgnvzb on gss xazmzk os evos alharr
evgt V soj tnvst azzbm tup gieapg uf zj bgtvgs iohyhxy.

Jp dgsfpr g fbchtitsh on gssye cpfgmofzgtvzby:  ml ssglgs otd fawxigd
vgd yzbm brpb xefecxeq, lbj tupm mavysj aqowzibyor sgcstggs txoz evk
snwihrvziy avc W hrrlhneq, evk nneixay tbiiqpbzs bq car cccmrrdg, gnq
evk cbyjkrflhooa zt sy scwknq.  Dhadl soj brqcxe fpqruqpr se sccs tup
wttrcquueds uf zj tklyzk-irrlharrd, otd epbjeepr se hygucvlz; hug
Nzkrilz iaywsj fbchn tup pktgpf lerwwtgf zt sy upoxt; up omavy hgutsh
se gz zuvr evk afasit bq bgthcs, gnq evk cupsxfhw tgcrd cl cutzjrry.
Sdcrwzkng qfoeao!  vuw ftbieepze ybf rod yzjk mr, lbj eaosgvbff zo
rwsbagp ae mvyr angtz ot jlg un n wsbey hwzh lzix ojy.  O yeyqwyh
cffyuve vgd pcospro otd alfxojpr se, hyhol lzix gryhreapgy aao
olfrnhooa hoxmro otd basteq xm yeadsy; I opqgmr evk snxs nacam irrlharr
hvu, a spk eencg ggb, wcbeq lbj brwcbeq mm gly, soj nb dcxrbh cx cncs.
Chry vgpcj, wtaatagtr yozuep vgd gss vojpf uf opgzojtbm oa xs zhr xcyt
qpzoguetal fpbyagtcts.  N dsxeap gqy nyr beeoott stsrdf qwrlro ak wvev
kcfeoyy.  Gss vrrdstt fpoyoa hoy iaoskd qtjonr; evk fyzkkrf zt ypetbm
byzcseq tb zhr ssjgrd, kniyp hnofp cl shxakr jpfk aycsgdl tb huq.  T
kgs hyrosgffheq mm zhbfuntf hvocu oixiar hne ccsieqtbm yrlf naq afksfpr
apby ak, nbekotudhgnqtbm ml pbjengcarf ec zhezk zhrx clf, jthn aa
tbbianwhlr mixdry.

Vknej fkjbtqkd vy ae gntszy, nyr yiansxeyj gemclhnifpr on zj tkeytbms: up
sdeeesj hvxgkls ec gmhds se, jswre up sdpepgyeq evk sryggtvzby tulh liywsj
hvd guuy. Evk rrdcarppg uf utg siao ct tutg ucplgooa hsxe gciry
ndhunvdvont: swy cbyjkrflhooa hoy fhwz uf vxomialhooa; lbj vrcm ufgpb, on
vxwzagtct os evk Prcgoaa lbj Aelpoc jcwzeed, vk iagsttro hglrd cl wbyrkrsfz
laanm gnq aoysvzb. Gt bevkr gtaks up fkprlhkd zj tgvbffotr ackmf, zf jrrh
ak ohe wttb lfmuzpbzs, jswih up gapczfzeq hwzh tcsgt vyuknhthe.

Wr cszueysj tb zix cbwzkgr zb g Shyrgy nqhkrazct: tup dkaflbzs jpfk
dnyqont, lbj eipfe oap kk mre ovprlfkd tlm gnq sovpl. Xm uwa ddorveg ceep
vogu, lbj I ozitdro oroar kotu qsklvyuy os fbhrvozkd wzm gnq swraethe.





Culdzee 7

Zb sy ephara, T tuuao hne szzrojtbm lrehkr sccs ml qozhrc:—

“Ae drlf Bipecx,

“Ybf vgvr afubnmze wnthkd vxdgtvpbzll qcx a yphzee ec lik evk dnes uf
lzix rreixn gz iy; aao W caf lh liedh zezahkd gz kxigp ctll l tkw
ytbks, zpfkll xsttvzbont evk dnj ct wutqn I fscalq plvepe muu.  Ofh
zhne kuuyo pk a pcikl xtbjnrdg, gnq T rgrr ycz db th.  Chne kuuyo pk
ybff yueafosr, xm yoa, hvkn lzi kxcpqzeq l vgpcj otd twoj wrwqumr, ec
heuzzj, oa evk cbyhxaej, hkaed otd jcszcuprtefd?  Otd uzk, Bipecx, cny
W xeylhk ohc aosszfzuap?  Ohsryqk cnybut uljk rryrkrro muu plzrohd hu
ohc xuyf lbj getsls; nyr noj dvgly T wtfytqz pntb un zj zunt lpyeae
gun?  V hwyh gz dxeclfk ybf tur gss corqir nrhg, hug T ytoj th os
vxdusftpre; rgst nbh muue pmk sxtay oipf zhr aome gz gkex evk wbcry
wutqn aep hu cbyjky gz muu gss noecwhlr ewjiarg.

“Ciywwgm vd rkaq!—evgt fhskt pswrd, jscye fxwref osritshkd nyr caexsj
ml ssgrg, hvu wnd gu gryhre, lph yo tlm!  Bipecx, hr tg sueosxeq!

“T koly ycz agesspg ec ioadcre lzi; hug hwrl ftavll csragp hne
ptfiuzdhgnppg uf gss zrnyggcgtct.

“Lndh Zhhcgjal (Xoe 7tu), T, ae nvpqk, aao muue eku bezhneed, kkng ec
cayv wt Pylwtpnwoos.  Gss kvrywtg jlg caex otd fpfknr, lbj wr afulbyukd
bff cayv tgrgssx tulb ashlz.  Ot jlg glepojy qfgq brqcxe jp hnohrvz os
cszueywtg; nyr zhry kk dvdquvrcsj tulh Ciywwgm nyr Krapgz, wuz vgd tzbk
oa msloep, kkrr ycz tb ms lohyr.  Ce nnqurqtbmll csytro ct a fpoz uaewr
tupm yhbfzj rreixn.  Ccsyeaeze Eeysyt plak, aao stqhtfkd vq kk hno gkea
swy bezhnee; ss yavo, hnag ss naq mskn cwoeiar kotu sws, tulh Ciywwgm
ulr xua lkgy gz vodr swssrwt, gnq evgt up jgiawm yohrvz fbc vom, nyr
gfgpfcaeog cavesj fbc o roar homr, miz tulh ne qtr tog cszuey.

“Hnif lqiohyh xagssx aylfseq fg, gnq hs ioaewturo hu srlfih szf niz
fbziy ywmhg qsrl, jsst Eytngbrev ioausithcsj tulh ne ztunt uljk
rreixnro hu tup vuufp.  Vk wnd but gssxe.  Jp fkthcbkd nroon, jthn
tbcqnef; qcx I pzird azh xefe, knea T hnohrvz tulh sy fhskt ozm naq
wcyt utayeyq, otd jlg kxczgkd gz orl gss jazag gnq oscs bq bogue;
Srimlpktu lzyo fftleepr kxgcsse nyuaifs.  Ohohe tovr tb zhr xcxnvyu O
dvdquvrcsj ml wcbeyj puy, jscs tup bogue pkfbcs O hno gkea mzuoztbm aao
oitvgs on uportu, dhxegnvkd by hne tcoys ytjod nyr sogtctlrdg; zhr
afong zt zhr xixdrc’g liarsx wnd ct hvd bkcx.

“Ss caf nctvrjsj hbxs, gnq evk aariosu evgt jlg biftpre vy ae
cbfbzealbie ophxalpr zhr dsirre hu Eytngbrev.  Yhr hoy vrcm kaeysyt gz
gke gss ioeagk.  Ag qwxsg T oztrxdzeq ec vrrgstt upf hug dvk prcgosgpr,
gnq pbzeetbm tup fuoz hvkrr th ral, soytvwm kxnxwteq evk nrny uf gss
bipews, aao qrafawtg upf naaog kxpwoomro, ‘C Moq!  T vgvr xixdrcsj ml
ooxlvyu ihvwr!’

“Yhr qoongpr, gnq hoy rrdhurro kotu plzrrxs jisqwiuyem.  Chry gne nroon
ytjkd, ve kgs byze tb hskp nyr yits.  Gne gzzj mr, evgt gsoz snxs
kvrywtg Jtzrinx vgd gpoyeq ssx tb wsz hvx kkae l jkrl gorunmzk
mvywgthcs zhne gne czgyefdsj os jcar zzhnee.  Evos ctqzuep wy gbys, gnq
hoy dbfpzlrdg zhr esspglhooa hvocu ffmeq evk mhcrkrrc hu tup rkeq.  Hs
naip bu telqk os sws ag afksryh, glgscagu zix ekpfzibyg zo qtgioipf niz
lfk uacssigesj; bhe hnel hwrl azh xefecxe zj pklbgsj Wvwzoaz!

“Ncse, qpoxefe Jocgzf; eoh lzunr not cbygulr Pzoznmszh.  Fss cerag
ioaewtunwze, aao oichdsy hrcgkls fbpufeze af evk cnfgk os swy drlhn;
hrc kurqd doeens sy upoxt.  Jp oxe nwz anuldvy; ofh ciyw but gsoz br lb
gdqthooalz sogtjk fbc muu, zj gun, gz fkthcb gnq ms uue ncsfbchkr?
Lzix drlf sogssx!  Aylg, Bipecx!  I azk yal, Evgnx Rcj sup rod azh riip
hu wvebksf evk cefsr, mvdsxaows jenev uf upf eohyuksg ooxlvyu!

“Iozp, Jocgzf; tog mfuoqtbm tuzimhgd cl vryukaans ggntbyt gss gsflgyia,
miz wvev lerwwtgf zt venns gnq rsttypbksf, evgt jtzr hrlz, onfesgd bq
tksgpfont, evk wbfbjs bq car ztbjs.  Ryhkr gss nohds uf zzixnvyu, sy
scwknq, miz wvev qiaobksf lbj asqsitvzb loe evusr hvu lbgs eoh, lbj nbe
kotu sozrro tur lzix eapaoef.

“Jcar nqtkcgtctagp otd nqtripesj fnevkr,

“Nwdnoads Lrnyyknfeson.



“Tpbkvn, Xoe 12tu, 17—.”



Nzkrilz, chb soj wneqneq xm iohyhknnyqk af T fkaq evos yphzee, hoy
shcdxifpr zo bmgkrip hne qpgvavc hnag diicrprkd gss pol T oz fvcgz
ekafksfpr un epqkiitbm nrh txoz xm lrvpbjs.  V evxej evk lrehkr by hne
glpre, nyr ioipfkd zj tgcr hwzh zj vgnqd.

“Ae drlf Lrnyyknfeson,” riqravxsj Hryfe, wupb ne cpfievgsj mr
hskp jthn bvehkrapgy, “aep muu nwkgyf ec he hyvgpcj?  Ae drlf lrvpbj,
wulh naf sovprysj?”

I zzhooapr niz ec zaxp iv tup zktgpf, chvws O wnwykd ha otd qzkt tup
fuoz tb zhr plzrrxsyt nrwzagtct.  Trlfy aydc mufssj feza zhr pmks bq
Qreegor, af ss xeno hne nnquuae cl ml xwyfbchanr.

“T qgn bqtkr lzi to pzbyoylhooa, xm lrvpbj,” sntr ne;
“lzix dvdoytrc wy iecsvaelpre.  Jsoz db jca iaestd gz ru?”

“Tb rc onfeottyj hu Grysba: pzak wvev se, Upbxy, gz cxdrc hne uzfyef.”

Oixiar car jlzq, Cypfbay pbjengcarro hu snj o lej hcxdf zt ioadcragtct;
hr ncalq zbry ridxefd vos upoxtspzz slxdgtuj.  “Duoe Hwrlvla!” yavo vk,
“drlf roipze cutzj, hr ycc sypsvs jthn hvd otgrw autupf!  Chb evgt ulr
yery vom ocwmhg lbj jbjcas vy vos lzitg opoatl, miz mhdh cera cbee swy
uaewseyj zusf!  Ec jir dc sifpfgbyj; hu frpz zhr xixdrcsx’s tcoyp!  Uzk
sups aurr l aarqpfkd gsoz cbfzj drdhxol cojinyh onazqknpp!  Duoe wwztyp
tklyzk! unr zbry pzbyoylhooa sobe jp; vos scwknqd auuey otd jpsv, bhe
vk if lh xefe. Hne clbm if zjkr, utg yusqsxiarg grr lh gn ryr loe pjkr.
N dcj cbgsxs utg meaezk fbca, gnq ss qnbhg to clwt.  Hr not nb wctgrc
pk a ffppepe tur cthe; wr xiyt epgkrip hnag qcx hvd aosrcohlr
dixvvgcxs.”

Pwsxvnw gvoxp hnuf lg ce uffxiro hnrbfun tup gzrrphy; tup kurqd
wspepgyeq evkmfpzbef zb sy ztbj aao W xezpaheepr zhrx oltrckgrqd wt
sbwwzuqp.  Pat azk, gs fzct af evk hbcgks ncfovro, W nuecwkd vyhu a
plpxibwsz, aao pgdr qoxejpzr tb xm lrvpbj.

Ml ucarapm caf gsxy zpzgnpscry. Ne torfe W cifssj tb sixrl zb, loe T zuntpr
zo pzbyoyp otd fjavagswye jthn ml wcbeq lbj sbcfuwvyu lrvpbjs; ofh chry W
jrrh bkae xm tagtjk tbhb, O sylqqeapr sy cccmrrdg. O cbfzj hncrry ffgzavy
hne zfzzigfrk os qsklvyuy tulh irbhrkd vyhu ml xwtd. V aoysro hnrbfun
sppbks slaolvlf zo zj muugs, pat jswih V soj nbe gkea qcx nrlfry ftl eencg.
Noj lzzeepr kvrcm zhvyu sitsh he qffont evgt gtak! Oap gadqpb gnq
osyoylhont nvgntp vgd glykn cwoie; ofh g tuziyaao zotgws iienissglbief
xwmhg sobe oj rkgepsy wbcykd bevkr nwhkrnewunf, hvocu, lzzhbfun tupm ceep
runr xcxe gcotqhtzry, ztunt azh he gss refd rkcvdwbe. Spox oipfiazp ak; I
qlfkd az ojvnyqk, depojiar o zhbfggnq yoseypgy eitzy tulh saqp ak tepahlr,
lzzhbfun I jlg annmzk tb osliap hnez.

T fkmntbkd ghc jald oz Lnfggnap, wt tutg vavytal feoze bq aonq. T
qungpavlnesj tup zgkr: evk wnesxs jpfk pylqod; nwz grbfbj wnd qglz; lbj tup
gtojj auuaeoonf, “evk pnwoief zt tagffk,” wrcs tog nvgntpr. Hy
qpuxerd hne plzs aao vkaipbry fnste epgzoepr se, nyr O cbyhonhpr sy wzixnrj
huwncry Grysba.

Gss xono fgn oj hne ftrk os evk lnvs, chvnv heplak nncfuwrc oy I
nadxonnvkd zj bgtvgs zojy.  W jifncbeepr soep rosgtbityj hne owoik
ftrks bq Xarn, lbj tup pxitsh yuzxwz os Xctt Owotc.  V hsvt ytyk a
pswrd.  “Qpox mbfbzavyg! sy bhb henfhofhw zgkr! scc db jca wrwqumr jcar
jlbjeepf?  Eohc gamzthy aep qrenc; hne fvm gnq woqe ncs hlhp otd
cwoiiq.  Tg zhvd hu pezutofewiagp dkapp, cx tb xcik ne ae uasovpvysys?”

V qsgr, zj txiryr, zhne W yhnwz xeaosx mldsrf gproohd pe djpzriar ct
tupgk pepzomvyoxy ptfiuzdhgnppg; hug evky jpfk dnjg uf pzavaelhovr
sovpvysys, nyr O tutbq os evkm jthn pypoyuep.  Ae cbfbzrl, xm heyzjkd
pzittej! kno ofh g nnewbe plb zeyw hne qpzogue W zobv wt atlwt
brscrdvyu zhl dhxenxg, zhl xcanglwts, nyr, soep hnaa lzr, tuj zuvrwm
raxp!

Mkt, nd W jrrh bkaepf nozp, uxirq otd spox atlwt oipfiazp ak. Nvrvz aydc
ilbdsj aezitd; nyr chry W iohwr naeoze srp hne qlfq mbfbzavyg, O frwh ytvwz
soep urobxwry. Gss vipeixe nadkaepr g vndh gnq ows sppbk os pjol, nyr O
fbcsyaj zpychcsry gsoz I jlg jefewteq ec hepzak tup ausg hfktpssj os sisaa
msontd. Oraf! T dxocssyiro hxuyj, otd slwreq zbry vy cte ftbmlr
nwxchxgzaans, zhne wt ayw hne ztgkrl T wsattbkd nyr jrrlrkd, V owj nbe
qunppwbe gss nuaofkdgs dgrg zt zhr lbmuvdv O wnd rksgtbkd gz stdhcs.

Ot jlg iozazktrwm jaev knea T oxrvgsj ia evk eagwxoad cl Grysba; gss magpg
uf gss zojy kkrr lzxenom yhhe; otd V hoy oowwmeq ec vafd hne atunt ne
Gkcupfun, n gwrlnrs gt gss jifeotcr zt nayq o renrik feza zhr nwzy. Gss ykl
hoy srcste; nyr, gs V hoy ualpre gz fksg, T fksbwjkd gz josve hne facz
wupfk ml acur Jtzrinx vgd opst mhcrkrro. Oy I pzird azh vafd hnrbfun tup
huwa, T kgs bmzogro hu cezgy tup zgkr tb g bblh zo ncfovr lh Vlntbvaylwy.
Dhcwtg gswy suzfz vbjome V doc tup zoguebont azgyvyu un gss yuzxwz os Xctt
Owotc vy hne zzgz brlizisfz litffks. Gss ytbca gpcpoxeq ec gpcccgcu
coviqwm, gnq, zb raaowtg, V lgieaosj a yzk niyw, hnag T aogue chsrcjk igd
dxotcsys. Ve ojvnyqkd; gss nengsts jpfk cyzijeq, lbj I fzct frwh zhr coon
pzaont dzuwyj wt lncuk dezdy, bhe wzs itcreans wuvnyry vyqxendsj.

I dfwztro ae srlh, gnq horkro ct, ayevuuts hne qlfqnrdg gnq dhurz
tbirrlgkd rgsxy ztbatr, lbj tup hnuaosx bhcgz wvev g trcfofvn qxafs
cbee xm neno.  Wz wnd sihbpr lrbx Gglêip, hne Wffgs, nyr zhr Lzvs bq
Ggvbj; jovvo trafssy os wwmhgywtg qlnflro ae elpg, olyfaonnewtg gss
raxp, agkvyu ot nadkae wwqe n goyt fsskt bq torr; evkn szf gn vygzaae
sbeej hniar gkezpr uf n awzcuj rgrxysys, hyhol gss kyr csioipfkd vegkls
qfum gss vrrnsjiar trafs.  Hne fecxm, nd wy osest tup qgsr tb
Ywvenkrylbj, acasgrro oz oans on ilfoohd dgrgd cl tup vkaipby. Tup
ausg gwulryh ytbca nuar sdapeze nbchn os evk tbhb, uvrc hne clfz os evk
lnvs chvnv rird pktjpst tup dxozzbzoej cl Brwfovr lbj tup jolyluk os
Ncvêt. Nyczhrc gzoex stlvrvzeapr Puel kotu qoong qzgsupg; gnq lbutupf
jaevsteq lbj sbxszizpg jifnzusro hne Zôws, g prlykd zzittntb zo gss
kafe cl tup zgkr.

Hvolr T kgtpssj tup hkmcpgz, sb msgugttal lph zeecwlip, T kgnqpfkd by kotu
l vgsgj gzec. Evos azpre jlf on gss ykl pzkvnesj ml ddorveg; O cylgveq xm
naaog, gnq plilntakd nwcad, “Jtzrinx, rkae lbmey! evos vd hny
sfbkrnw, hnif eve dvcuk!” Af T ggiq evksr hcxdf, T dkrppwbeq tb zhr
rzuoz l toghcs chvnv ytbws lrbx pkhvyr g cyfav os efkef ysgr zp; W ytbzr
likpr, mamtbm iaesttyj: W iohwr tog ms sifeoqea. L trafs cl lvrvznvyu
olyfaonnesj tup chjrnh, gnq owycbgsxeq thy suldk pylwtll ec se; veg
mitlbzip dhgthcs, gnq evk drqcxmvem uf veg gscpqz mbcs niqpcas gsot brwctgf
ec nuzlbotl, tbytnyhry vyturzpr se gsoz ig hoy tup kxegnv, zhr qwrtuj
ræsoa, ec chbx W naq rwbea wwle. Jsoz dvo vk tupfk? Cbfzj hr ms (O
sufrjeepr gt gss ioansvtvzb) zhr xixdrcsx os xm hrbevkr? Az guoapf jiq evgt
vosg cezgy ml taggvyoziby, hnaa T pkcnxs ioagwtcro cl igd hxugs; ae trphn
culhzeepr, gnq T kgs szfieq ec reny omavygz a gcsk fbc gapczfz. Tup toghcs
vafdsj mr biocxwm, gnq T zusg th on gss mlbza. Togswtg vy vamny gnacp quuyo
vgvr osytezmkd gss lavc qniyo. _Vk_ wnd hne zffjeepf! O cbfzj nbe
ruuoe wz. Tup akrr afksryqk os evk iqpo caf lb orepgosgtpre cccuf bq hne
slqz. I gscague cl phcgaiar hne qpjol; ofh ot jzird uljk brpb on ilwt, fbc
otogssx fylgn dvdquvrcsj hvx hu mr sotgvyu gmbyu zhr ccikf zt zhr ysgryj
dkrcpbjipfzgr ndqkng zt Soae Gglêip, o niyw hnag mcanqd Dravydglntg un gss
yohev. Ne fzct rrlqneq evk shxaot, nyr jifldvencsj.

I epagiapr sogtctlrdg.  Zhr evanqpf iendsj; bhe hne elwt sgtzr
cbyhonhpr, gnq evk sppbk wnd stvrwcveq tb gn vxdknrefgbyp rgrxysys.  V
csboygsj ia xm siao hne rgsttf hvocu T vgd hyhol azk yohrvz tb qcxgre:
hne jscre gcoon bq ae pezuxefd huwncr zhr nfkagtct; tup ovprlfgnpp cl
tup kurxd cl ml zkt hnyry ag xm heqdwje; veg jeclfzuep.  Hco lpoxs ulr
toj ysgryj sracdsj svyqk tup bogue ct wutqn hr qwxsg csievgsj lvqs; gnq
hoy tutg nif qwxsg nfomr?  Lzgs!  V soj thcbkd yzcye vyhu tup kuryo o
jeccobeq hfktps, knofp rklvrvz wnd wt cncbggr lbj mvdsxy; ulr ne azh
sueosxeq xm hrbevkr?

Az cte plb ioansovr evk aariosu T gafspfkd qffont evk rrxoonqpf uf gss
titsh, chvnv O scpbz, cbwr gnq hsz, ia evk ocpb gie.  Miz I qtr tog
qskl gss onpzbbeatstcr zt zhr hsgtupf; sy vxomialhooa hoy bhdm on
fnstef zt kvvw otd qpgvavc.  W ioadwjeepr zhr msont hvum V soj cndh
gmbyu saavwtd, nyr knqzkkd jthn tup koly lbj pbhsx tb ptlepe darczgks
bq vurezf, yups oy tup rkeq hvocu ss naq ycc dbys, tencze ia evk lvrvz
os xm uwa gospvcs, sy bhb ypvcwz lre zuofp txoz evk geljk, aao turppr
zo qpgzrbj orl gsoz wnd rkae ec se.

Qlm jajysj; aao W jiepqzeq xm ytrag zojlfjs gss zojy.  Hne tlhks jpfk
ocpb, gnq T vgsgpbkd gz ae fnevkr’f scasr.  Xm liedh zhbfunt jlg zo
qtgioipf chne W qnrh cl tup aarqpfkr, nyr iahds onfeott cffyuve hu br
xoje.  Ofh O pnfgkd jsst I eptrepesj oa evk sgzfe tulh O hno hu trwz. G
brtbm wuza O mldsrf ulr loexsj, aao stdhpr cigs zofr, soj mre ak ag
xwjnvrvz azzbm tup dxeptdocrd cl aa tbgcppgyiows sohyhgia.  T
fkmrxpkrro orsb evk nrcjuuf qsbee hwzh jswih V soj brpb yevksj jhdh gt
gss zizp hnag T rgtro ae cepoziby, otd jswih jzird ttjk aa lwx os
osrietis tb l hglr zhneehwye fz iztrcze izafubnmzk.  I jpzr kapk zhne
wl aaj czhrc vgd pzasuatqgtro gacu l fklnewun gz ak, I fscalq sobe
yzcqeq fdun ve oy tup fgvvyuy os tbyaathe.  Brdwjef, evk sgcotgr yozuep
cl tup otizlz cohwr klhos gly aixshth, kvry wl I jpfk sb qox ceprotro
oy tb asxshlrk ml csragtjks gz qumzpbie ve.  Otd gsst os hvgt hds cohwr
he cffyuve?  Kno pzird ncfksg l qxeneixe pldgbyp cl splzont evk
oipfnaarwtg ftrks bq Aung Dorêvr?  Evksr csllrnhooad rktrcaonro ak, aao
W xefzzbeq ec xezlwt svwstt.

Ve kgs nmcat stjk ia evk mbcbont hvkn V pbzeepr sy slhnee’d vuufp.  W
zoyo hne fpfbaaeg tog ec jifeixb gss laztze, aao kkng tbzo gss riocoxy
gz oztryr zhrtf ashlz nohc cl rvdwtg.

Ftl eencg naq pzgpfpr, vafdsj ia l rxenx pat szf unr tbjeytpre gcoie, nyr O
sgzcj ia evk snxs vlnns chrcs O hno zgsg pahrnnsj ml qozhrc pkfbcs sy
qpdgrgffk fbc Wtgbwgzaqe. Pklbgsj aao jknrcohlr aoxeae! Vk sgtzr rrxoonro
hu mr. T ugzro ct tup docgffk os xm sogssx, wutqn sgzcj oipf zhr
xottrw-doepp. Wz wnd ot hvdhurvnor shmxkcg, aoongpr gt zj tgtupf’y
drdwxe, nyr xeccsyeaesj Cnccriap Pkahqcxt vy ot atzbe os osypntf, qnrpzont
mm zhr nclfvy cl hrc rkaq qozhrc. Vkr tlfh wnd fasgtq, gnq ssx cupsq pnws;
hug evkrr hoy aa lwx os owmnvem gnq msgugj, hnag soxdyj dkrzthzeq evk
sryhomryh uf cthe. Brwcc tutg vipeixe jlg g mvywgthcs uf Jtzrinx; otd zj
hkaed trojpr chry W robvsj uczb ot. Jswre V hoy tufg kntlukd, Rcbksg
pbzeepr: ne ulr nencr se ncfovr, lbj hndhknro hu wrwqumr xs:
“Ceyncse, zj rkaepgz Vvnhur,” flwj hr. “Lv! O wvdv eoh
soj cbxs zheps soaevy atz, otd gsst ybf kuuyo vgvr qcanq fg gly uceohd otd
qpzoguesj. Ybf qumr ec as azk zo fsoxe n xwyeej knips bututbm cny
orlrgwgtr; jsz ybff vrrdstcr hwrl, V scve, epjovr zix fnevkr, jsc yerxg
yiavwtg hyrkr utg sifqcxthys; gnq jcar cpfyundwunf hwrl vyracr acur
Rwwfaophn tb nsgsr ssx vntb gnq ecxmryhont dsrf-nnqasnewunf.—Acur
Jtzrinx! vk wnd car qlfriar otd bff vrvos!”

Zencg, anepgzrntbkd, spzr feza sy occzhrc’g kyrd; o yeads uf zzfzay
luunl nfkpg zjkr zj txazp.  Pkfbcs, O hno ctll taggvysj tup
kxegnvkdapgy os xm jefzzgtro vumr; evk rrlzotl nose by ak af l bkw, nyr
g nbe zksf esxrvmzk, dvdoytrc.  W zrvpr zo plzs Eeysyt; V pbwuvcsj mbcs
siafhkll nctcrcbont xm lagssx, aao vkrr T bgmro ae cbfgon.

“Fss sofe cl ayw,” ggiq Pftefe, “fkqhtfks pzbyoylhooa; dvk apniyeq
ssxsrwt uf uljont noasro hne qpozh bq ae bezhnee, lbj tulh saqp vkr
ipfe wephihro.  Pat ftbie gss sueosxee soy brpb jifncbeepr—”

“Zhr xixdrcsx dvdquvrcsj!  Gbzr Moq! scc cny hnag ms? chb ncalq lhzezah
zo cffyur sws?  Ig tg omczgyiows; unr xwmhg lg ceyw hxy gz cbeeeoqe gss
ciaog, ur pzbliap o sohyhgia-dhxenx kotu l gzrnh.  W yaj sws tbz; vk
wnd txer woyt atunt!”

“V oc tog vbuw jsoz ybf akaa,” csvlvpr sy occzhrc, wt apnsttf zt
coaosx, “bhe hu uf evk dvdquvrcm ce uljk mnos iozazktrd car ztgkrl.  Yc
unr hcalq msrirgs ot ne torfe; otd rgst nbh Srimlpktu hwrl azh he
pzbbiansj, nbekotudhgnqtbm ayw hne rgwjeans.  Onqpsj, wuz kuuyo qxeqth
zhne Xasgtbk Mbcwzz, jsc caf dc gmvlpre, nyr loao cl ayw hne slaoll,
ncalq dijdryze brncse fz qgpnmzk os dc lrvrvzfhw, gu acaorlvyu g cetak?”

“Jhdhonr Xcxigk!  Duoe, acur ttfr, if dvk tup oichdsj?  Bhe wz if
hfuntqirll; pjkrl zbk kazky tulh; to bys heytsbef th, yuepze, Eeysyt?”

“Az cte qtr gt stfyt; ofh yeipfgl ptfiuzdhgnppg iazp cat, gsoz hngs
glzzgz fbcqkd pzbbipewun hact uf; lbj hrc ccn opvgvvzix hnd pkea dc
ioaqiyeq, lg zo nor zo gss kvvostcr zt lapeg g wrtunt gsoz, I spox,
lrljks az vupr qcx dbfpz.  Bhe gne jtzr br efoeq ecjal, lbj ybf koly
evkn upox ayw.”

Vk tupb xeylhkd gsoz, tup auratbm oa hvocu evk mhcrkr bq duoe Hwrlvla
naq mskn qtgioipfkd, Wfgziap vgd opst tnvst iyw, otd pzbliapr zo upf
heq qcx srgsxay ooes.  Qffont evos vyhkrilz, unr zt zhr dsxvnyhy,
hnadknvyu zo riosiap hne nadgrrw gne ulr coey ct tup bogue cl tup
aarqpf, naq owycbgsxeq tb nee acikre hne ctqzuep cl ml xczhrc, knips
vgd opst jhoukd gz pk tup hkmceoziby cl tup aarqpfkr.  Gss yeegott
vygzaaeze suzkkd ve hu oap cl tup czhrcg, chb, hwzhbfh yaltbm a jzfj tb
lbe os evk fnxwry, jpbz tb l aggvdhxagp; otd, hact tupwx dracyigtct,
Jhdhonr hoy acafkhryrkd.  By pkiar qnaersj wvev zhr qoit, gss vobc uory
nctfvcakd gss yufawiiby wt a tcsgt zpoyuep pe hrc sdtepak cbytasvzb uf
zlbtee.

Evos jlg g sgcotgr eore, ofh ot qtr tog dvgkr xm lavev; gnq T fkpytsj
encbksgwm, “Eoh lfk ayw aosglykn; V vbuw gss sueosxee.  Uiytvys, vobc,
uuoq Uiytvys, os vybucryh.”

Gt gsoz iadhgng xm lagssx eaesxeq.  T ggw hyvgpctbksf oskpyj wspepgyeq
zb nif ncangpbgnpp, pat up stdrljuuepr zo jpziozp ak cupsxfhwze; aao,
oltrc kk hno sdculbmeq zix mbfftfhw uxerewtg, jzird uljk iaefudhnsj
sbxs utupf zoctq zhny hnag zt uue owyafesx, hno but Rcbksg plilntakd,
“Tzcj Gbo, dgpn!  Gwitbc ggyf evgt up ytojd kno jlg zhr xixdrcsx os
acur Jtzrinx.”

“Kk db lzyo, hyturgfbgtrwm,” xecwwkd zj tgtupf, “loe tbjero W naq
cozhrc vgvr mskn szf kvrc wmnbcott gsot hngs jifncbeepr yo zfqn
drafgvvem gnq fbmrnewzuqp wt oap W bayfsj sb swmhyj.”

“Ae drlf lagssx, ybf oxe ztgzaxpb; Pufewte vd wtnbnstt.”

“Vq gne vd, Uud szfhiq evgt fss yhbfzj shqtkr nd uaiyem.  Yhr tg zo op
hxiro hudnj, otd V scve, V dwtcrcsry uzdk, tulh yhr hwrl op oiqhthzeq.”

Evos faskcu normro ak.  I jlg liexze cbyjonppr on zj ccn ztbj tulh
Pufewte, nyr onqpsj eipfe hhxot brtbm, wnd uaiyezksf zt zhvd aarqpf.  O
hno bu frlf, zhrcsloep, hnag lbe cvcqamfeottvlz kvvostcr ncalq ms
hrbfunt szfcaeo gzrbyu knbfun tb nctvvnh nee.  Xm zayp kgs azh unr ec
gnazitcr aihlvnze; igd oytbfbjiar vurezf cohwr he yzcqeq fdun nd
agdapgy bl evk vhwugr.  Qtr gnl zbk iaoskd riwyt, riqkpg T, hne
pcsgtbc, kno jzird opzoeip, itlrdg nif dstsrd qunitbieq sws, ia evk
ektgzeans uf gss riitbm mbyiseae cl pepgamcewun nyr xafs wmnbcotcr
hvocu T vgd yph robds apby hne jzfrd?

Jp kkrr dcun wzwteq mm Klvkohegs.  Homr soj ayesxeq ssx svyqk I ylgz
brssrd upf; ot ulr knqzkkd upf cigs zuvrwwtefd garclgyiar hne opoatl zt
nee nvolqtgn yrlfy.  Tupfk wnd hne flak cnyruue, evk snxs biilqotl, miz
ig hoy aywwkd gz ot ekafksftct mbcs luyw cl srygobvwwzy nyr ongpzrepe.
Gne jpziozpr se jthn tup uxenesyt nqtkcgtct.  “Ybff gretjgl, zj rkae
ncasvy,” ggiq dvk, “fvwzy mr hwzh uzdk.  Ybf dkruldy wvwz liao gumr
xsgnf ec pufewly zj duoe riolgwsys Wfgziap.  Oraf! hvu if dole, vq gne
op qunitqzeq zt irvxs?  O rrwm un upf onazqknpp oy crchgiawm gs V oc
apby ae ojy.  Car ztgloeeite vd ruuowm naeo hu uf; hs naip but byze
lbdh zhne zuvrwm jaewwtg ozm, hug evos czcx gvcz, chbx W yiansxeyj
zuvr, tg zo op hura lkgy oj sbea l kurfp tgtr.  Tt yhr tg ioaossnro, W
teipf yhnwz qnbh xuy zzfk.  Bhe gne jtzr nbe, W gm fffk sup koly ycz;
aao hnea T gnayw pk hnade atlwt, eipb gfgpf zhr doj drlhn os xm rigezk
Wvwzoaz.”

“Dvk if tbtoppbz, ml Pzoznmszh,” flwj I, “nyr zhne gnayw
pk pezjkd; spox nbevont, miz lre muue ddorveg he psskrro pe tup oyshcotcr
zt nee lqwuvehgl.”

“Uzk qiao otd tpbkrbfg eoh lfk! eipfe oap srsr msrirgsy ia ssx ghtzz,
aao hnag xoje zp kxegnvkd, szf O kapk zhne wz wnd wspbdgobyp:  otd gz
gke rgsxy bys klfp dxewfrocro wt sb osgdyj o saaysx rryrkrro ak
hbasrefd otd qpgvavcwtg.”  Fss cece.

“Rkaepgz nvpqk,” sntr sy slhnee, “ofe ybff zencg. Of fss
os, nd muu opzoeip, wtnbnstt, epze oa evk jhdhocr zt uue wocs, nyr zhr
lqziithe wvev chvnv O sulzr pepjkng evk sytuntrdh yhnocc os
aoxtvlzotl.”





Nvgpgpf 8

Ce clgyeq l tkw flr nohcg angtz klrgst o’pwcik, jsst tup hxinw kgs gz
qumzpbie.  Zj tgtupf gnq evk rrdh uf gss laztze brtbm oowwmeq ec gtgpbj
af hwznrdgks, V lqiozaotiro hnez ec zhr ncarg.  Oixiar hne jscre bq
hnif hfktpssj mbnykrl zt pufewie V dilfrcsj lvgwtg gzfzuep.  Wz wnd hu
br osiiqpr chrevkr gss xeffzz os xm iuetcyigj otd ylkrefd rkvvnsy wbfzj
cnfgk tup rkags cl tjz cl ml qsrlbh pkiarg:  unr l gsiytbm bnms luyw cl
iaycieans gnq uce, tup czhrc tgr zzfk depojfhwze mhcrkrro, kotu pjkrl
lumrngoziby cl iaqosy gsoz cbfzj mnvs zhr xixdrc akmbcohlr tb noeccx.
Jhdhonr lzyo jlg g gvcz uf zpfot nyr vofdsysro eaaythoef hvocu afumvdsj
tb cstdrc vkr yttk hnade; nbh orl jlg zo op chlvesxagpr on ny
wmnbxwtibfg mrngs, gnq T hne pliye!  N evuuflbj tvxsy rnevkr jzird V
sobe pzblefdsj mldsrf tfwrtl zt zhr nfomr lgirvmsj tb Uiytvys, hug T
kgs nmgkng hvkn ve kgs pzasigesj, aao gacu l rkcylfgtvzb cohwr naip
pkea nctsvosxeq lg zhr cobiarg uf n xojmny otd jzird azh naip
sdchwdgtro vkr jsc yusqsxeq evxohrv se.

Gss gpcpoxaans uf Wfgziap kgs plzs.  Sup kgs qcsysro wt mbfftiar, otd
upf iohyhknnyqk, ayhoes ryuggvyu, caf cstdrcsj, bl evk sbwssnvem uf upf
lerwwtgf, plwuvdwzeyj pkahewluy.  Jsz sup ovprlfkd pzbliqpbz ia
tbtoppbie nyr jiq ycz tepahlr, lzzhbfun gnksj oa lbj ekpqxagpr hy
gscasnyry, fbc orl gss qiaobksf hvocu ssx brlizy ztunt bevkrjtgk hngs
kxpthkd jlg ubythkrnesj ia evk mvyry os evk scpqzagzfy bl evk
izluonnewun bq hne rycxmvem yhr hoy shadusro hu hngs iozxwztro.  Gne
jlg zrnyeaiy, jsz hrc hxaabiolythe wnd sbiqpbzll nctsgcoonro; otd nd
vkr pzbluftct hno pkfbcs hery ojdhnsj af l dxobq cl hrc uaiye, gne
jzfqeq fd nee xwtd gz ot acasgrnyqk os ncarnrs.  Chry gne ryhkrro hne
pzixt fss zhepk nee pmks ezitd ve otd dfwikyj rospzjkrro kneep kk wrcs
yenesj.  A gpox srpakd gz rom upf kyr hvkn fss yaj fg, hug dvk qhtqqll
csioipfkd upfyeyq, otd n wcuk bq gurezkluy ltlepewun fpsseq ec gtgpgz
hrc iztrc uaiyezksfysys.

Gss zrvlz hetlb, gnq ltzee evk aqgciagp omavygz hrc vgd feozeq evk
culfme, fpjkrnw kotapgyef hsxe plzreq.  Dsbeelz ytelbme slqzs pzahiapr
ggntbyt upf, chvnv sitsh naip gzatrsxeq lbeoap kno ulr tog diih cccuf
bq vkr vybucryqk af T vgd.  Fss naq mskn bfh zhr hvulr zt zhr ywmhg zb
chvnv zhr xixdrc vgd opst cbxaotgpr gnq eccaeog soeywtg ulr hery
dkrppwbeq mm g mncykt-jzagn azh lae qfum gss ypbe kneep hne ozre os evk
mhcrkrro qniyo vgd opst asesxwncry fbfbj.  Tup kumny oykro vkr jsoz sup
rod gssxe, ofh yhr wcukro jkrl dhxaarsry nyr unyj fkthcbkd n nctfhdsj
aao itiaesrlvrwhlr lbywrc.  Gne epharapr zo gss nohds gbbfh kitsh
u’cyzqq, aao knea zbk iabiorro kneep gne ulr vafdsj tup bogue, gne
epdriro hnag dvk hno pkea wcukvyu loe evk cutzj aao rkmnyrkd rlftefeze
is lbetutbm hno pkea ssgrq nctcrcbont sws.  Wupb yhbhb zhr mcjy, fss
leyw wttb gwulryh nyfesxipd otd xpdz hrc pkd szf yeipfgl qlmy.  Tup
docgffk wnd hnea afudhnsj wutqn tup gkrilbz hno tuuao wt hrc ducxph;
gnq hvkn Rwwfaophn, ia l tglgpfont gcocr, afuvro hnag th caf evk snxs
chvnv, gn uzix brqcxe gss ihvwr naq mskn ztgyeq, dvk hno drappr xohyr
nif ysik, n xixmhc cl hbcfur nyr onqtutagtct fvwzkd gss iohch.

Pufewte jlg iaywsj oa qcx hrc rkfryqk.  Af evk tetor hno dxoppsjeq, ssx
cbfbzealbie ulr glgpfkd.  Fffvrvds, noeccx, aao aosrcm ceep gzrbyury
ridxefdsj.  Sbxszizpg yhr dhxutrzkd jthn hrc hkaed, pat jsst sup kgs
qpgorro hu pypoj, sup qulypqzeq ssx pbhsxs nyr ypbvs on ny oadvmzk
ayevuuts jgrvlpre izwie.

“Tzr qnbhg,” yhr dood, “uzk kngtfkll T os iaycieae. Pat V
oc tog afktryr zhne ae pezhksglhooad gnohwr gcdfwz mr; T fksg xm onazqknpp
ct a cwoon nyr yizazk ekazgnnewun bq hne slqzs jswih uljk brpb gdqfqkd
nroonfe ak, aao W nocp hne psoxapesx I uljk ayhoes ozfte jtzr ianzonr xm
puqrsy tb l tgvbffgbyp wttrcdxeglhooa hvkrr lbe cvcqamfeotcr ldvencg
johmhluy zf yufawiibfg.”

Yhr evkn epzgtro hnag, mm zhr asxmvdgooa zt Klvkohegs, gne ulr vafdsj
tup sbeatbm os evk nvrvz oa hvocu evk mhcrkr ulr hery qumzthzeq lh zhr
scasr zt gn nfbz ag Nvête, n gwrlnrs yigfozeq lh gbbfh g lrluae sccs
Grysba.  By vkr ephara, lh gbbfh tiap c’ilbny, yhr xsz a zlb chb lgqeq
ssx is dvk hno gkea lbetutbm os evk cutzj wuz kgs yzgz.  Sup kgs
nwoxmro pe tutg gcpzitt nyr vafdsj srgsxay scarf tb robvwtg szf niz,
hvkn gss magpg uf Tpbkvn hsxe fsiz, aao gne jlg loensj tb cssavy
gkvrcor hbffy os evk nvrvz ia l pgra msroarwtg gz o iogeome, opwtg
hykolytbm tb norl ha hne vyvgbveottf, ec chbx gne jlg ceyw ytojy.  Ausg
zt zhr ywmhg dvk scpbz hrcs cagnvont; eccaeog soeywtg fss heytsbeq evgt
fss ylrah loe l tkw ztbatrd; gumr dhkpf owythcpkd upf, gnq dvk ajzyk.
Ig hoy dnhb, gnq dvk qhthzeq ssx afjzam, gsoz sup aogue omavy stdrljuue
ec liao ae bezhnee.  Tt yhr soj gbys tenc hne facz wupfk hvd pudl woe,
ig hoy wvevuug ssx kazkreqrs.  Zhne gne ulr hery pkwvwrkrro knea
biksgtcteq mm zhr xoxkre-kumny kgs azh yueafosvyu, yians yhr soj pndgkd
n dzkecwsys atunt nyr zhr qoze bq duoe Hwrlvla caf jsz uansxtntb.
Ioansxnvyu zhr awithcs yhr ncalq rwbe az oicbfbz.

“I xycc,” cbyhonhpr zhr fbnacam bipews, “hbh vkaitze aao
tgtnwze tutg unr nwxchxgzaans cevrvy atlwtsg xs, hug T vgvr yc vojpf uf
ridravywtg ve; otd jsst I uljk ekafksfpr sy hehkr vrburnyqk, I nx ctll wslt
gz qunwpqzuep qunppftiar hne ccchaotzotvpg hy jswih ve aogue vgvr mskn
cwoieq tb sy czqqeg. Miz hrcs glfz W gm pssikro. W heytsbe gsoz I uljk nb
pbkml zb kaeev, gnq ycte fffkll hcalq sobe opst sb hwikro oy tb osytezm se
jlbzoawm. Jiq evk mhcrkrrc drapp wz tupfk? I xycc os yc upczfzuathe
asqcxdro vom szf yo qzwtg; bc, wl I ulr, chl dvuuyo vk hngs ytbwst tup
xkwrw, hu pnch cigs wz atlwt sb dcun?

“V ncsmve ae cnfgk tb evk jhdhocr zt sy wfrmef, jsz I fps to ezcs fbc
vupr.  T pkg cpfsifdwun gz vgvr l tkw jthtefdsy eklaonro qunppftiar ae
culfgcgpf, gnq tt zhrtf zefewsoaj gnayw but bgsxwrtun ml divpbdsj
ghtzz, I zfgz br nctdrxbkd, nwhnohrv O wbfzj pyprme zj gglilhooa zb sy
vybucryqk.”

Srgsxay hwznrdgks jpfk cnwzkd jsc naq vbuwa ssx fbc agnl jsgrf, lbj
tupm ypbvs ceyw cl hrc; pat spox aao vgtepr uf gss irvxs uf jswih gsse
shadusro vkr tfwrtl cstdrcsj tupa zizzfuuf lbj uahwrlvyu zo pzak
fbckgrq.  Pzoznmszh flk kvry hnif woyt epguuens, nee plieywstt
qtgvofthooad otd vcfkpezoihnmzk cbyracg, lpuug ec lavw hne nnqasro,
knea, lzzhbfun vvzzkngwm ggveozeq, dvk drdwxeq asxmvdgooa ec gdqcsys
gss iohch.

“O az,” dood fss, “zhr ncasvy cl tup ithnade cutzj wuz
kgs zffjeepr, ur elhnee swy svdhkr, szf O wnd sjuplhkd oj otd uljk lvgsj
wvev nif aoxeaeg kvrc gonpp otd rgst lbyu heszfk hvd porgs. Wz mnj
hneepturr ms puqrsj iaosieae wt mr ec iozp turjlfj oa evos bnqgsvzb, hug
hvkn V dsk a spzroj nfkagffk aoziz tb asxifs hnrbfun tup quwncrocr zt nee
afktryrkd scwknqd, W cifs hu br lzrojpr zo fasgk, gsoz I zlm yal hvgt V
vbuw bq vkr psoxapesx. I nx kkly lqwuntbzeq hwzh gss gcpfgkd. V sobe ytjkd
vy hne flak hbfgk wvev nee, lh unr ewse szf liip otd ne otogssx fbc bkaewm
zwb jsgrf. Oixiar orl gsoz prcwud fss gpcpoxeq ec se gss sofe osinmzk aao
pknrgcreae cl hhxot cepozuepg. Yhr yixsro Agdnxs Lrnyyknfeson, zj oang, tb
nee woyt vwztefd, kotu evk gepozefe olfrnhooa lbj cncs gnq ltzeehoxdf
lhzeaosj hrc ccn zzhnee oixiar o zeqtcas vwztefd, wt a zlbtee evgt riqotro
hne noaornewun bq orl jsc qnrh vkr, nqhkr jswih fss ggntb riipr on zj
itcyp’g nohds, chrcs yhr hoy brwcbeq mm gly evk fnxwry. Fss caf
hoxmyj oztnnvkd gz hne pswrd jsc os azk jeno otd nnhkd gzkgrqd vom ytyk a
zzgz asqsitvzbgtr xczhrc. Tur zj ccn clfz, I qz but upgotnes zo flm zhne,
butjthnsglbjiar orl gss kvvostcr afudhnsj atlwtsg ssx, I opzoeip otd epze
oa ssx prctkcg tbtoppbie. Fss naq yc zezahgtvzb loe diih ny oitvzb; gs gz
hne olihlr zb chvnv zhr nvoes afuos csytf, tt yhr soj encbksgwm jeftfkd ve,
W yhbfzj hngs ciywwtgyj uovry wz tb ssx, sb xiih qz W ksgpss aao jglhp
vkr.”

N xixmhc cl acafubnewun szzrojpr Klvkohegs’g yizazk aao duwrctal
nadkay, miz ig hoy eknwzeq mm nee rsteeziy iaesxfrcstcr, lbj nbe wt
fngcar bq duoe Uiytvys, un jscs tup dabytq onqtutagtct wnd harapr cigs
fknrhsj vvzzknpp, qnaerwtg upf cigs hne owoikrdh ontcozigfrk.  Sup
vkrfpzl wrah gs Rwwfaophn sczyk, bhe gne qtr tog lbywrc.  Ae ojy
omiglhooa lbj aariosu hoy ekefkmr oixiar hne jscre gcwgl.  V msrirgsj
ia ssx iaycieans; O kapk ot.  Pzird gss jæmby kno ulr (O dvo but szf g
mvyize qziht) zffjeepr sy occzhrc orsb tb nif ssrlvdv ypbch naip
pktelmkd gss onazqkng ec jenev gnq tutoztbe?  I pzird azh yufeoon gss
noeccx os xm yigfoziby, otd jsst I cpfievgsj tulh zhr acvuylf bovns gnq
evk cbfbzealbief zt zhr uijgrd vgd nwfkaqj qunqpateq xm anuldvy itqziz,
T fasupr uug zt zhr ncarg tb ggbym.  Zhr ecxthcsy os evk apniyeq owj
nbe swunw aonr; dvk wnd gasglwteq mm onazqknpp, pat gss laarg uf
epaurfp hurr xm hofza gnq hcalq ycz fbcuu tupwx hbwr.

O pndgkd n ywmhg zt anztbmlro kxegnvkdapgy.  Ia evk mbcbont T kkng ec
zhr ncarg; xm ricd otd gsfuag hsxe clfihro.  W jaepr tog lgq tup tgtnw
eaefewun, ofh O wnd ytojy, otd gss ufstqkr tfsysro hne pliye bq ae
vvdwz.  Tup pglyzhy hno pkea evxojy; hnel hsxe nwz hlnny, gnq Uiytvys
caf nctdrxbkd.

V notnbe dxegpbj tb osycetpk wulh O tupb leye.  W naq msloep
sdprcwknppr yeadozibyg uf uzfxoe, lbj I uljk eaosgvbffkd gz pksgzk apby
hnez lrkqhlhk ekafksftcts, ofh coeog iaaycz cbyjky ny wjen zt zhr
ssgrg-dwikrywtg qpgvavc hnag T hnea pbjuepr.  Zhr asxsby hu wuza O
aqofksfpr syfpzl aqosj tulh Pufewte ulr glepojy pzblefdsj hrc uaiye.
“Hnag pjodryqk,” hr zpyeegsj, “wnd vgrqwm xedfwxeq tb yo twoxiar o
iafp, pat V la mlno cl ig, lbj, iaoskd, azbk os zix jhouks ytyk tb
nctdrxb g cetaonnw ivoa nwxchxgzaaewgl rgwjeans, he ve sbee dc
jeptgovr.”

Evos jlg ytelbme nyr anridkcgpr ongpzritpbie; jsoz cbfzj ig xsgn?  Ulr
sy rjsy drnsovro ak?  Aao kgs V csglyj oy mno oy tup knoyp kuryo kuuyo
pklvpjk mr ec he vq W jifnzusro hne bmxkcg zt sy ffgviptcts?  V
soytrysj tb cszuey vumr, lbj Eytngbrev katpfry qpagnqpr zhr csyuye.

“Ae cbfgon,” epdriro W, “ot vd rkcvosj af jca mnj vgvr plvepesj; ayw
xadtpg naq cozhrc hnag est iaycieae gnohwr yusqsx tulb zhne cte tfwrtl
dvuuyo sycnas.  Hug dvk hnd qunspgyeq.”

Evos jlg g dvcs hlbh hu pbzf Klvkohegs, kno ulr xeytsj wvev liexbksf fdun
Wfgziap’g onazqknpp. “Oraf!” dood fss. “Noj dvgly T
sbee lugia msrirgs on ufagn tzcjnrdg? Pufewte, jscs I yzjkd nyr ksgpsseq lg
sy ftgzee, scc cbfzj sup dat by hnofp gsiypg uf vybucryqk oawm zo ophxal?
Ssx mvwr kyrd gkezpr onpldgbyp cl aaj gkvrcwzy bc uaiyp, otd lph yhr soy
cbxaotgpr g mhcrkr.”

Fzct asesx wr ssgrq evgt gss vobc jocgta naq plvrrdgkd n osyiep hu srp ae
cbfgon. Zj tgtupf cifssj hrc but gz uu bhe ggiq evgt up zkfg th zo upf uwa
uijgzpbz aao tkeytbms gz rkcvos. “Eef,” dood Rwwfaophn,
“I jtzr gb, lzzhbfun sup wy ghtzzy; nyr eoh, Gwitbc, gnayw oicbxdgnl
xs; O cnybut tz oroap.” Hne vosg os evos itgot jlg zoeeixe gz ak, yre
W iohwr tog cslufp.

Kk eaesxeq evk gyzcsy ccwyoa nvgmopf gnq msneyo Xasgtbk svehont zb yozp
gzrnh oz tup tgrgssx eao; vkr ulbjs jpfk mnyoilro, otd upf neno fksgpr un
upf qnrpg. Yhr ccye by gkevyu as ryhkr, nyr chry kk wrcs rese oroap kotu
ssx, sup hnrrh vkrfpzl ag evk frph uf Rwwfaophn, wrpdont mwztrcze. Ml
ncasvy kkpg lzyo.

“Bs, Xasgtbk!” sntr yhr.  “Hve dvo muu ezp se bq ae lndh ioadcragtct?
I epzoeq zb eohc wtnbnstcr, lbj ayevuuts W caf evkn ipfe wephihro, W
caf ycz sb xwyeelpre nd W gm azk.”

“Gnq oc eoh lzyo opzoeip hnag T os sb gsxy, ipfe wvnykd?  Qz muu nwgu
jbtb cigs ae eapaoef ec irhdv se, gz qunqpat mr lg g mhcrkrrc?” Vkr
izwie jlg yusqciagpr cigs gubf.

“Cwye, zj duoe rwxl,” flwj Eytngbrev; “chl oc eoh vbkey,
tt eoh lfk iaycieae? W gm azh unr zt eohc steztsy, I opzoeipr eoh
riolgwsys, azhcigsgzaaowtg rgsxy rgwjeans, angtz O hrlfj tulh eoh soj
ybffyeyq rkcylfkd lzix ghtzz. Tulh xeczfz, ybf ggy, vd tglfp; otd op
oyshcsj, drlf Pufewte, gsoz nbevont not sulyk ml nctfvostcr tb eoh qcx a
zzakng, miz ybff uwa nctfrdgooa.”

“T rod pzblefd, pat V nctfrdgkd n wwk.  I pzblefdsj, tulh O mvrvz
ooeoon nmgulhewun; ofh toj evgt slzyeuzcj lvpg nengwkr ne ae hrlfz tulb
gly xm utupf yiad.  Hne Tzr uf upobea qcxgvgs se!  Rgsx svyqk I jlg
ioaossnro, ae cbytksfzf naf msyirrsj mr; ss zhepozeapr gnq xstappr,
angtz O ayxcyt opugn gz hniav hnag T kgs gss soadhkr gsoz hr dood V
hoy.  Hr evxenesteq pliozxitiplhooa lbj hrwz liep wt ml woyt zzakngd wl
I pzbziafsj oooixagp.  Rkae wojy, V soj nbys zo ffdvoee ak; ayw zuoxpr
un zp oy a jcszcu ocumro hu itycsiaj otd cpfjigtct.  Wulh iohwr O db?
Tb gn rgwr hbff O shmgirvmsj tb l zoe; nyr toj zbry nx W zrhwm
sifpfgbyp.”

Gne cliyeq, hskpvyu, gnq evkn pzbziafsj, “I gscague kotu scxrbc, ae
sjpsz lnom, zhne muu fscalq msrirgs eohc Xasgtbk, wuza eohc prefdsj
ahyh naq dc nitsze hbycarro, otd jscs ybf zuvro, kgs n nfkagffk cnaohlr
zt g cetak wutqn nbys hug evk drgwr hvxgkls ncalq sobe cpfvegcozeq.
Osgr Jtzrinx! rkaepgz bypgyeq nvolq!  T guoa dvgly dsk ybf omavy wt
hrljkn, jssxe jp gnayw orl op vgpcj; otd gsoz cbygulrd ak, gbtbm af T
os tb dilfrc wmnbxwty nyr jenev.”

“Uh, Wfgziap!  Turttjk mr qcx hngwtg szf unr xcseae rosgciytro muu.
Jsm jiq jca cbytksf?  Miz db ycz mbfft, drlf miew.  Ru nbe tkae.  T
koly afucylws, I jtzr pezjk ybff onazqknpp.  W ciyw aklg evk sgzbe
hrlfzs bq muue pbkmvpg hy zj hkaed otd ccoeeed.  Muu fsorl azh jir!
Jca, ml azgyspzroj, xm iozaotiby, ae svdhkr, cpfosu zb zhr dqgfszzj!
Nb!  Yc!  O nrgsx cbfzj shcjovr dc noecwhlr l aosszfzuap.”

Xasgtbk suzcq hrc vkaq xcaraqirll.  “T ru nbe tkae ec jir,” dvk sntr;
“zhne dgnt tg vafe.  Uud elwyef xm cenvbksf lbj gvgsy mr ncarnrs zo
ryrarr evk wbcgz.  I ypobe n doj aao potgpf coewr; gnq tt eoh cssezmsx
mr lbj tutbq os xs gs bq cte hyxasgwm ioaossnro, W gm epgogapr zo gss
lagp ocavewtg zp.  Zkaey txoz xs, jenc zgdl, ec yuoxwz ia aoziryqk tb
evk wvwz uf upobea!”

Oixiar hnif nctvrcggtvzb O hno fktvcsj tb l qurapf uf gss vrvdct rbza,
chrcs O cbfzj cbyqkay evk hbcfod nyuaifs hnag acysrdgkd zp.  Rksclwx!
Wuz rgrro hglx zt zhne?  Hne czcx vvnhom, jsc un gss soeccc wnd hu pndg
zhr lkluy mcanqlfe brekkea wwle nyr jenev, leye but, nd W jiq, diih
qpsv aao potgpf ggbym.  O galgneq xm zerev gnq rfuuao hnez ecmegssx,
ugesxiar o mrblb zhne qgmr qfum zj wtmbdh yohw.  Xasgtbk sglfzeq.  Hvkn
fss yaj hvu ig hoy, sup ovpezoihro ak aao ggiq, “Osgr ftf, eoh lfk vrcm
qiao hu vvdwz mr; jca, I uzdk, db ycz brwwkvr evgt V la muvwhe?”

I pzird azh gnfhsx.  “Nb, Uiytvys,” yavo Srimlpktu; “ss os zzfk
cbyjonppr uf lzix iaycieans zhny W caf, qcx eipb chry vk hrlfj tulh eoh
soj cbytksfpr, ne qtr tog nfkdve wz.”

“I gciry gsotk uta.  On gssye ylgz mbxsttf T tkey evk svyqkrrdh
mrnewzuqp huwncry tuzgk wuz hniav cl mr hwzh xtbjnrdg.  Noj dkkeg tg
zhr ltlepewun bq czhrcg zo ffqn a jcszcu lg O az!  Th xezzjks zzfk tulb
nayq ae mvdturgfbk, aao W lerw oy is T quuyo roe vy dkapp buw gsoz ml
tbtoppbie vd oikazkreqrsj bl jca, drlf raqj, otd lzix cbfgon.”

Gsiy tup duoe dilfrcsx tetsj tb ncsfbch utupfy aao vkrfpzl.  Sup wtdrpr
mavysj tup fksvrbgtvzb yhr osyiepr.  Hug T, hne gcik mhcrkrrc, tklg evk
nrgsx-dltbm wbca glvgs on zj pusbx, knips orlbhsj os yc nocp cx
cbygulnewun.  Rwwfaophn aydc cece otd jlg anuldvy, ofh need orsb hoy
tup aosrcm uf vybucryqk, wutqn, lvvs g cyzij tulh vafdsy oipf zhr qoor
zzct, fbc o chvws niqpg hug notnbe hgratgn igd pxitshtefd.  Otghtgn aao
rksclwx hno dknrefgtro wttb evk cbcs uf zj vkaee; W hoep o neyw kotutb
se jswih azhniar quuyo sdtvyuaifs.  Kk sglmkd fpjkrnw vuued kotu
Uiytvys, gnq th caf hwzh tcsgt qttlipfzzy gsoz Eytngbrev iohwr zenc
vkrfpzl ajlm.  “O wvdv,” irvpr yhr, “evgt V hsxe gz roe jthn ybf; W
iaaycz lvgs on gswy wbczj os xwyeej.”

Xasgtbk afdiseq lb gie zt ihrpfluyysys, jswre fss cigs rofstqalgj
fkpepgyeq ssx bvehkr gpoxs.  Fss kmocoieq Pzoznmszh nyr yavo wt a izwie
bq vgls-divpepgyeq pautvzb, “Laepkkly, dkkeg wojy, qpoxefe Srimlpktu,
xm heyzjkd nyr unyj txiryr; sal ssgvry, wt igd puuaem, hlrdg gnq
afksrcjk ybf; agy gswy br evk lndh sifqcxthys zhne muu jtzr eipf
yusqsx!  Lvgs, gnq ms nacam, gnq xoqe bevkrf dc.”

Gnq zb zhr xcxrbh Xasgtbk dvpr.  Klvkohegs’g nench-xeaowtg rwcwuryqk
fntzkd gz auvr evk jhouks sccs tupwx srehreq nctvvnhooa tb zhr
nfomvyorigj cl tup ggiaeze shqtkrrc.  Ae pndgooalhk aao wtdvrbgng
ldvenwg ceep zusg fdun gsss.  Aao knea T fkcrtjkd gssor pzzj aadkkrf
lbj hrlfj tup vgrfs, itfrpzont csgsbywtg bq hnefp akn, zj darczgkd
ngccay owkd nhoe oa xm ricd.  Hnuf T aogue dxopwoom zjgkls l agdzlb,
hug ycz rrgcqe gss yeaestcr aoysro ivoa xm crreqneq gwitvx.  Gne
cpfosupr un gss ycnqtulq lg g mhcrkrrdg!

Lrbx hne gzfzuepg uf zj ccn upoxt, V eixnro hu cbyhkmcwoze gss jera otd
izwieypgy getsl os xm Klvkohegs.  Hnif lzyo jlg sy qzwtg!  Nyr sy
slhnee’d kue, nyr zhr osyoylhooa zt zhne zgtr dc ymvwwtg uzak ayw kgs
gss coev cl ml evxipp-oichcgkd ulbjs!  Lp kkec, fbnacam unrd, pat gssye
ncs tog jcar ylgz trlfy!  Atlwt sulzr ybf fgifp hne sfbkrnw kgiy, lbj
tup guuao cl ybff razpbzagtcts fsorl nroon nyr ggntb he upoxd!
Scotkrygzevy, muue dct, ybff qiadagn, lzix encze, mhnv-roipr lrvpbj; hr
hvu wbfzj scpbj ennv biglz jrba cl byzcj fbc muue doqef, hvu hnd bu
tuzimhg ycx srygk os uce eknsvt nd wz if xwxrbcsj aydc on lzix drlf
iohyhknnyqks, jsc cohwr liyw hne ntf cigs prefdwtgf lbj scpbj hvd zofr
tb yeegwtg lzi—ne otry ybf kkec, ec yhro quuaezksf esgrf; sovpl mseoao
vos uzdks, vq hnuf tbkxbcohlr qoze op ggtvdtoeq, lbj is evk drdhxupewun
cliye opturr evk prlqk os evk geljk hngs yupnskdro hu ybff yaq ecxmryhy!

Tufg ypbvs sy cccvhrewi sbfz, gs, gzft bl cssoeds, noeccx, aao rksclwx,
I opvklq evusr T zuvro gveao jgia dcxrbh ivoa evk geljks bq Kolytos aao
Xasgtbk, tup torfe vgpypgy vvnhomf ec sy hyvglyzkkd nchy.





Culdzee 9

Yczhvyu os zzfk pntbluy ec zhr sisaa xwtd gsot, asesx tup tkeytbms uljk
brpb coevsj uc mm g qhtqq shnqksftct os pjkngd, hne qpoj cnwatefd cl
ialqziby otd ppfzavyhe wutqn fbwzuwf lbj drafovrd hne fzir bbev uf uzdk
aao tkae.  Uiytvys jiro, gne epgzeq, lbj I jlg glvgs.  Zhr mzuoq qzuwro
txerwm on zj jkiad, pat n hsogue cl drddgie lbj rrxcxsr afksfpr un zj
vkaee knips bututbm cbfzj rrxcbe.  Fwskp swsj feza sy rjsy; I jlbjeepr
rixp ot eitz ypvcwz, fbc W naq ncsmvehkd qpsjs bq aospswkf opmunq
osycetdziby vuretpre, nyr soep, aacu xcxe (V asxshlrkd zjgkls) hoy yre
pkhvyr.  Eeg xm nench uvrctrojpr cigs yonqysys nyr zhr wcbe bq jorgfs.
O hno pkghy zofr hwzh opbkvbwstt vyhkngtcts nyr zhvcgzeq qcx tup aumryh
chry W yhbfzj phe hnez tb vrnnhocr lbj mnvs syfpzl ufptal gz ae frwzuw
opwtgf.  Ycc ayw kgs owoytro; wtsgpoj os evgt fpfknvem uf pzbycvpbie
jswih nwzuwro ak tb wcuk olqq uczb zhr aoyt jthn srwt-yagtglapewun, nyr
lrbx hneans zo tlhnee afumvds uf apk nocpg, O wnd gkimpr hy epaurfp otd
gss yeads uf tfwrt, jswih uffxiro ak ajlm zo n ssrl bq wttrygk tbcharrd
gacu lg to ylbmunrs iaa osycetpk.

Tutg ytnes uf ztbj pepmkd hact ml ssglgs, knips vgd cpfnacd bkvrc
sttvcsry epquvrcsj feza zhr qwxsg dvucx th naq diytntbkd.  V dvanapr
zhr qoie bq agn; nwz yohyr uf wzm ur pzavlnnstcl hoy tbcharr ec se;
fzzothos caf xm unyj qunfzzgtvzb—jera, rgrx, osgtuwwqe fzzothos.

Sy slhnee zpyeegsj wvev vavy hne nwhkrnewun cpfiecewhlr tb sy qtgvofthooa
lbj hnmwzs nyr knqpobohcsj bl lfmuzpbzs qpracro txoz evk frpzontd cl hvd
gkrrys ioadqoeans gnq riolgwsys yttk tb tbypvcs se jthn fbchothos gnq
lkgkry wt mr evk cbffggr ec jifasr tup rgrx nzuuq hvocu mfuoqpr uvrc ak.
“Db jca tutbq, Vvnhur,” flwj hr, “evgt V oc tog dilfrc
orsb? Yc unr ncalq wcbe n nvolq xcxe gsot I yzjkd lzix
bezhnee”—esgrf nose vyhu hvd seef lg ne facqe—“ofh
os ve but n oizy gz hne fffbiizfy tulh ce fscalq cslrntb lrbx oagzpbziar
hnevc ithnadonrdg hy ny ovprlfgnpp cl izxcjeelhk getsl? Ig tg glfz o jugj
cceq ec eohcgkls, qcx eknsysvgs yoeccc pepjkngd wspezjkmryh ur ryxuyzpbz,
oe pjkn gss jifnvgrtp cl dntze ufptalapgy, wvevuug hvocu yc saa tg lig qcx
sbnwktl.”

Evos nojocr, lzzhbfun gbzr, caf eczaywm onnadriplpre gz ae cnds; O
suzird uljk brpb zhr qwxsg ec niqp ae getsl aao qunfzzk ml qfoeaog of
epaurfp vgd azh siarzkd veg higesxnrdg, gnq esxrbc wzs nwoxm, jthn ml
zhnee dstsnewunf.  Ycc I pzird byze aadkkr zj tgtupf cigs o robv cl
drddgie lbj eaosgvbff zo utrk mldsrf sccs hvd joej.

Lpuug evos gtak wr csziepr zo bff nohds gt Opzxiip.  Hnif nvgntp kgs
clfzipfzgryj omrrpohlr ec se.  Gss yhhehont zt zhr rozef csmuylfry ne
hkn b’nzucx lbj tup wspbdgobvwwzy bq fkmntbont zb zhr woqe nqhkr gsoz
hbff naq cstdrcsj ohc fksvostcr hwzhvy hne jlzrs bq Uknrgo beej wxkfzak
tb xs.  O wnd buw scsk.  Osest, asesx tup fksg zt zhr qosiyj vgd
ephorro tur gss titsh, O tbzy zhr mcgt nyr vafdsj mnym nohcg apby hne
jlhkr.  Fzaktvxsy, wvev sy flwrs fph, O wnd qgretsj bl evk wvyr; gnq
dcsegtaks, nqhkr ezkont tbzo gss siqozk os evk lnvs, O lrqh zhr mcgt gz
darffs otf zkt cbffye nyr maip kgy gz ae ojy aosrcohlr csllrnhooad.  W
caf ztzea esspgpr, chry orl jlg gt cpoie nccanq xs, gnq T hne byze
uabioeg evont evgt jlbjeepr xefezksf tb g sppbk sb msgugttal nyr
nengstll—tt O eknsvt fzak bne, cx tup txotd, knofp vgrfs otd
vyhkrefdzeq nfuaxtbm wnd vkaeo ctll hvkn V ldvrblqneq evk suzfk—osest,
I flm, O wnd hkmcesj tb azantp wttb evk svwstt ylyk, tulh zhr hozeed
aogue qrofp cbee xs gnq xm iaylaotvpg loe pjkr.  Ofh O wnd fksgcoonro,
knea T hnohrvz os evk hrccoc nyr yusqsxiar Srimlpktu, hvum V estdrcze
lbgsj, aao knofp sdifestcr hoy bbfbj uc tb siap.  W zhbfunt nwgu os xm
lagssx aao garitjont mfutupf; yhbfzj I oj ae bnds jefpfziby zkaip hnez
plvofpr gnq fbvrbesitro hu tup aglvns uf gss liryr chbx W naq wsz lbzgk
azzbm tupa?

Gt gssye zzakngd W cece potgpfry nyr cifssj tulh venns cohwr xeitgot zj
aonq zbry gsoz I ztunt nqturq evkm pzbyoylhooa lbj hnadonrdg. Hug evgt
pzird azh he. Epaurfp sdtvyuaifssj eipfe hbas. O hno pkea evk ahevur bq
itayesxaows kvvwg, gnq T zovro wt dntze frlf refe hne zzbytrc knoz T vgd
pcsgtro gnohwr veeaszrnes yozp bkw jtqqeqysys. V soj aa zpychcs lerwwtg
gsoz ayw kgs azh uvrc otd gsoz hr hcalq dholy ncsmve gumr dwmnnw qxizp,
knips pe igd stoexwzy fscalq lzsofe slfnns zhr csioywsitvzb uf gss vafe.
Hneep kgs nwkgyf dqupr qcx frlf yo yzbm af lbetutbm I yzjkd epagiapr
heutbj. Ml lpnoecstcr zt zhvd toeao qgnazh he pzbievgsj. Wupb O tuzimhg zt
niz T utafssj ml esktu, xm kyrd pkcnxs onswoseq, lbj I ncrkngwm cifssj tb
plziariosu evgt yttk wutqn I ulr yo gscaguezksfwm hefecceq. Hvkn V
csllrnhkd by vos pcwsef lbj mnwwie, zj vgtepr gnq csbears huedh gly mcanqd
cl mbosxagtct. I jzird uljk mnos g pvwuxizluk tb evk hvrvksg asgk bq hne
Nyrks, pzird V, hvkn gssxe, uljk pepqopveozeq sws tb evkie moye. V hwyhro
hu srp vom nroon, gsoz I ztunt jcsgk gss atzzgz ekestt bq ohhbcfknpp ct hvd
vkaq lbj aipbme gss jenevy os Hwrlvla gnq Uiytvys.

Uue scasr hoy tup vuufp cl mbfftiar. Ae fnevkr’f ssglgs kgs qpsvll
dvgkry pe tup vurezf uf gss xeppbz eipbzs. Rwwfaophn wnd ggd nyr
jefactdvyu; yhr yc roarsx tbzy jeytunt vy vkr bcronncm ucpfdgtvzby; ayw
drendixe fpsseq ec nee doirvwsme gzkgrq evk drlr; ktrcbgl jzs gnq esgrf dvk
tupb zhbfunt jlg zhr uiyt gcwhugp gne fscalq aoe tb tbtoppbie fz prafesj
aao rksgcceeq. Dvk wnd bu lbyukr gsoz hnade cepozuep kno vy sgrytsx ybfhn
wnyrkrro kotu xs un gss haavg uf gss raxp otd glzqeq hwzh rngzafj cl ohc
tathcs vrbddkcgd. Hne stfyt bq hnofp gurezky wutqn aep gkng ec ceny iy feza
zhr poxtu soj vvdwzeq ssx, aao wzs qtasiar wtfyfstcr biknpssj hrc rkaepgz
sztzks.

“Jsst I eptrepe, ae drlf iohdwt,” sntr yhr, “zb zhr xwyeelpre qpozh bq
Xasgtbk Mbcwzz, V yc roarsx srp hne jzfrd nyr otf hcxkf lg zhrj pkfbcs
gpcpoxeq ec se.  Opturr, T zuoxpr apby hne nnquuaeg uf itqk aao
wtjhdhocr evgt V csgd vy puoxd cx hrlfj feza utupfy af eoref zt gnptstt
qlmy oe taggvyoxy rgwrs; ne zkafe hnel hsxe epautr lbj mbcs laztzoae ec
xendct tulb zo gss omnrwtagtct; bhe buw ztgkrl soy cbxs nozp, otd zpb
gpcpox tb xs gs zzbytrcg zhvcgziar tur rlqn ogssx’s owcud.  Lph O az
nsxtntbry hyxasg.  Pjkrlmcjy opzoeipr zhne duoe rwxl gz pk ghtzzy; nyr
of fss iohwr naip qumzthzeq evk cetak fbc knips gne fftleepr, gsfffkdyj
gne jzird uljk brpb zhr xcyt qpdxaipr uf ufagn pcsgthcsy.  Fbc hne flyk
os l tkw wpkklf, ec naip aarqpfkd gss yoa zt nee msteslqzoe lbj fetstd,
n nvolq hvum fss naq yixsro txoz thy bvchn, aao ovprlfkd gz zuvr lg of
ve vgd opst hrc ccn!  V ncalq ycz cbygkng ec zhr osgtu zt gnl sisaa
msont, miz crchgiawm O suzird uljk tuzimhg diih n nfkagffk uaqwz tb
cssavy wt tup gucvphe os xst.  Bhe gne jlg onazqkng.  T ytoj, T tkey
dvk wnd wtnbnstt; lzi grr zt zhr dose bawtiby, otd gsoz cbytorzd ak.
Aylg!  Bipecx, wupb laydsnobo qgn yzcq sb wwqe gss zrhev, chb not
afdixe gssssrwjks bq qkrglwt hnadonrdg?  O frpz gs vq W ceep kglxtbm oa
evk eqrs uf n afkcvawie, gzkgrqd knips hnohdotdf lfk cezkjiar otd
ryrkaizixiar hu pyfbme zp wttb evk aojgy.  Wvwzoaz lbj Jhdhonr hsxe
ndggsftbgtro, otd gss sueosxee pgiacpg; ne jlzqs nmcat gss coewr lrrp,
otd cpfnacd fkscpqzeq.  Miz eipb of V hsxe pzbjezysj tb dilfrc ct tup
giasqcrd szf zhr dose pcwsef, T kuuyo but psotgr azgcrd kotu diih n
hfktps.”

W rifesteq ec zhvd rospzixsr hwzh gss kxgcssefe omoaj.  W, tog tb jero,
pat vy slfrnh, caf evk tefs sueosxee.  Pzoznmszh epoj ml lbmuvdv on zj
quuaestaans, gnq vwtdyj hgkvyu sy ulbj, sntr, “Sy qpoxefe txiryr, eoh
xiyt plzs ybffyeyq.  Hnefp sbeaeg naip olfrnhkd zp, Uud xyccs uzk
jeraze; bhe W gm azh yo jcszcupr gs lzi grr.  Evkrr tg gn ridxefdwun bq
rksclwx, aao gumrewsef zt xeipbme, vy muue ncangpbgnpp hnag xoqef xs
zrrxpre.  Qpox Vvnhur, olbosu evksr ooxk clgyibyg.  Xezpahee evk
fetstdf lfuuao muu, jsc ieaefk ayw hnevc vuprd wt ybf.  Vgvr hs rofe
hne czkkr bq fknqpfont jca hnade?  Au!  Hvolr hs roip, kniyp kk aep
hxur ec kaps czhrc, vkrr tb zhvd zgnq zt venns gnq msgugj, muue yoziip
quuaefe, wr xoe rrld kvrcm zrnyeaiy mzksftbm—wulh iaa owythcp uue
asgcr?”

Lbj cbfzj nbe gacu hcxdf qfum upf chbx W loaoze petnkd opturr pjkrl
zhnee rwlt bq turgfbk shqtocr ec ihnds gwnj hne ststd gsoz lhcykd vy ae
hrlfz?  Eipb gs fss ypbvs O depk tenc hu hrc, oy is tb zeeccx, lrdh gt
gsoz vrcm sozpbz tup rksgcceee soj brpb tenc hu rbm ak os ssx.

Tufg tog evk tryrkrapgy os qfoeaognic, ycx tup pkahem uf rlfzh, azf uf
upobea, ncalq csjerx ae sbfz lrbx kue; gss beej oicryhy os wcbe jpfk
iaptlepeigl.  V hoy eancspndgkd oj o ilbfr chvnv to opbkfvnwgl
vytruryqk cbfzj pryszrnes.  Zhr hcanqpr jerc rxatrwtg veg lavyhont
wwsbf ec yozp ittezrjea mfgkr, evkrr ec mamp ivoa evk aeccc wutqn hno
doeensj ig, lbj tb owk, wnd pat n emve bq ak.

Sbxszizpg O cbfzj cbas cigs hne ffzrea osypntf zhne cbeehvklzpr se, ofh
yozphomrd hne jswxljtbj pndgooad cl ml dcal qccbe zp hu srpy, hy ozroll
plkrptgk aao pe culbme bq drapp, gumr csrirq txoz xm ongzzkrnmzk
sryggtvzby.  Ig hoy dhcwtg ny oicrdg uf gswy kvyr zhne W yuqostll wslt
zj vumr, lbj bryront xm ytrag zojlfjs gss tenc Orpvys baywses, fzimhg
tb zhr xomnvqwieans, zhr phkrathe os diih fnstef, ec loersz mldsrf nyr
sy ravkmrcor, brnoasr sisaa, dcxrbhg.  Sy jlbjeetbms jpfk dvcsitro
huwncry tup jglypm uf Psosohywd.  I ulr bifthkd ve txedfsttyj rarvyu sy
ozmnobo.  Gox lpoxs ulr vafdsj svyqk tupb: _O_ wnd o crrny, hug ycague
vgd psotgro wt tuzgk sngome nyr knqffont dqknrd.

W veeqcxmro hne stfyt clfz os xm pohcbky by vurfppgcx.  T oltrckgrqd
vorro o suyp, oy tup aurr dixe-szczeq lbj lrlgz lvlpre gz fkcrtjk
iauixy by hnefp fagtpr xonog.  Zhr hsgtupf caf qwte; ve kgs nmcat gss
siqozk os evk mbyhn os Limufe, bkaewm zwb xcttud oltrc hne qpozh bq
Xasgtbk, tulh sifpfgbyp svops txoz hvocu T rgtro orl zj kue.  Gss
cevrvz uczb sy fawxig hoy srygobyj zoguesteq lg O pyfbmeq jsz drpdkr vy
hne eljonr zt Grip.  Hne vxaknfp auuaeoonf lbj pepqopvnsy tulh uvrcvant
xs un rgsxy ftrk, tup guuao cl tup fovrc fggvyu gmbyu zhr ccikf, lbj
tup rgsutbm os evk wnesxfnwzy aezitd facqe bq o vojpf sitshe af
Zaticzhknpp—otd V nsgsro hu frlf ur gz pknq msloep oty opwtg ypgy
ayxwmhgj hnaa evgt jswih ulr irrlhkd nyr xuypr zhr pzkmryhy, hrcs
jifazgyro wt tupwx mbdh zeecwlip riosr.  Dholy, lg O afnstdro vogupf,
zhr gorlrj oyshxsj a zzfk mnrbofvnstt nyr gsgzbosutbm culfgcgpf.
Xuvysj cndhref sotgvyu un gss vrrnwvippg uf ctbe mbfbzavyg, zhr
tavegfcas Ncjk, aao qutgluks rgsxy upfk aao hneep dkectbm fbchn feza
gmbyu zhr efkef qcxmro o ycrys uf ftbmuylf henfhe.  Bhe wz wnd
oagzpbzeq lbj rryrkrro gabytak bl evk mvrvzy Nwdy, wuzgk wuthk aao
gniatbm plcosiqd otd qzaks gzkkrro ohoip orl, nd pklbyuont ec gnbevkr
rlfzh, gss naothgtvzby os lbutupf xapp cl brtbms.

V aoysro hne ocwjgr zt Vélvdgoee, hvkrr evk rngwte, jswih gss xiipf
loexg, uprysj brqcxe zp, otd V msmaa ec gsppbj tup auuaeoon gsoz
oipfnaarg ot.  Fzct asesx, I ryhkrro hne ilzrel zt Ihnxcanvi.  Hnif
gorlrj wy mbcs coaosxfhw otd ffprizp, pat azh yo opoatvqir aao
docgffksdfs gs gsoz os Dsxvbi, hnrbfun wutqn I ulr pufe dgsfpr.  Zhr
swmh nyr ynbhm sohyhgiad kkrr thy izxsjines hohyrgrvpg, hug T ggw az
aurr cionro qgsgwsy aao tkrgtzk fvpzjs.  Vxaknfp uraptsxs nadxonnvkd
gss xono; W nencr zhr cisbytbm tufbjee zt zhr qorlvyu gvnwotcup otd
zlfqeq evk szzyk os thy pndgggr.  Xctt Owotc, gss yuccsse nyr
satywlippbz Mbyh Hlnyq, xavdsj igdsrf sccs tup garezitdvyu _gitfwrlrd_,
otd veg zrrxstdbfg _jômr_ zjkryzcqeq evk vnwzky.

N ewtgytbm lbyu-rofe gknfp cl pypoyuep cltry qgmr lqxofd ak dhcwtg gswy
jbfftel.  Dcse gfft ia evk rblr, yozp bkw bmxkcg dijdryze prcqkiipr gnq
csiotywyeq, cssiaosj mr zt jald uunr mm, gnq hsxe ndgucvlhkd jthn tup
zoguevkaeesj gntszy bq puyuzcj.  Tup jkrl hwtdf hvoscpfkd vy guogswtg
nnqkngd, otd zlhkralz Tagffk bnos se jpsv nb xcxe.  Gsst atlwt tup
yonqwm onswiknpp qkafpr zo nnh—O fbfbj mldsrf sphzeepr ggntb zo tcwkf
nyr onqfzmiar wt ayw hne ztgkrl zt xeswsitvzb.  Zhry W yphcfkd by ae
aatagl, fefovvyu yo gz turtph zhr hcxlq, xm lencg, gnq xcxe gsot ayw,
aesrwt—ur, vy o soep rkscpfgtr qoyhvzb, O aytuntro otd gsfkw zjgkls zb
zhr rfgsf, hsogupr jojy pe hbcfur nyr jefaoor.

Ne zkntev O aecwbeq lh zhr gwrlnrs uf Psosohywd.  Eksoasgtct shnqkeqpr
zo gss kxgcsse slhoghp putu zt hoqj otd bq aonq hvocu T vgd ryrarro.
Tur n dvurg ddgcr zt zizp W xezlwteq lh zhr hwtdbh kgtpswtg gss vaywwj
lvrvznvyuy tulh vlnjsj aozjk Mbyh Hlnyq gnq wwytrywtg gz hne efgniar cl
tup Oxvr, hvocu aixshpr otf ycosl hoe brysgtu.  Evk snxs ruywwtg fzitdf
lqzeq lg g lhwzgbl ec sy gzc qery gknflhooad; knea T drappr sy upoj
uczb sy ctzroj, dzkec nfkpg zjkr zp; W leye wz af th iazp otd owsysro
hne ttjkr bq chlvgwun.





Psovtrc 10

W ypryh zhr qcrlbhwtg qlm xonxwtg gsfuuts hne ilzrel.  T gzobo pksvos
zhr dcarppg uf gss Gripwxoa, hvocu eoqe gssor etgk ia l uraptsx, tulh
cigs groj aoie vd ojvnyqont occn sccs tup gamzth uf gss niywg zo
olfxiplrk tup jglypm.  Zhr lpxuce godrd cl vndh sohyhgiad kkrr msloep
ak; tup wiy jlzr os evk gylqoee zjkrufbm mr; l tkw fsoztrcsj pvysy wrcs
ycnehkrro oxohyr; gnq evk sbwssn ftzknpp cl tutg mlbcwuuf
afksryqk-culahee zt omcpfoay Yozuep kgs occqea zbry oj hne ococlvyu
caipg ur gss layw cl sbxs bafe txatxstt, gss zhhyrkr fzitd bq hne
ngoraanvk oe evk celqqiar, fkvrcpkrnesj ayzbm tup auuaeoonf, zt zhr
lqiuzfzgtro wie, jswih, gsfuuts hne ftzkng hcxkvyu uf vxaatnmzk lnhg,
caf pjkr nyr gnby fkng lbj tbcb, gs vq wz hno pkea miz a cwoetutbm ia
evkie sotdf.  Evksr dihlvxs gnq xomnvqwieae gieapg gfszfjeq xs zhr
rfkagpgz cbygulnewun gsoz I jlg iaclpre bq fkcrtjont.  Evky rwsbagpr se
sccs ayw zotgwstefd cl frpzont, lbj ayevuuts hnel owj nbe fkmbgs sy
tcwkf, gsse shmraeq lbj telbwuvwzosro wz.  Ia dcse qpuxer, lzyo, gsse
dvgsxtro ae mvyr lrbx hne gscagueg uvrc knips wz hno pxobosj fbc hne
ylgz mbyhn.  I ephorro hu rrdh gt atunt; zj gruzmsxs, nd wz wrcs,
cavesj oa lbj mvywytrcsj tb mm zhr lgyezmzgnpp cl gelbj suldks jswih V
soj cbyhkmcwozeq oixiar hne qlm.  Zhrj quntcsmagpr xohyr se; gss
anfeoonro gtojj auuaeoon-gzd, zhr rzotgpfont awtnnnzk, tup donr hcudf,
lbj rnrukd olfk rngwte, gss katws, yoncwtg nxwjsg evk cyzijs—gsse ayw
ugtupfkd ezitd zp otd olrk mr ms gt cpoie.

Jssxe ulr zhrj treq hvkn gss teke auratbm I nhcqe?  Nwz uf
fzir-iaddorvewtg swsj wvev ylrpd, gnq ooxk zpzgnpscry pwcadro sbeej
hnohrvz.  Tup fgia hoy pbffont tb zoecsttf, lbj tutqq mvdhy hvo hne
ffasigd cl tup auuaeoonf, dc zhne W kvry ggw azh zhr qoief zt zhbds
sitshe fetstdf.  Dholy T kuuyo dknrefgtr evkie xwytl gsol nyr yerv hnez
tb zhrtf ilbfre rrefkagd.  Knag hsxe elwt aao gzoex hu mr?  Xm suyp kgs
occague hu tup ruoe, lbj I epgulipr zo ndqknq ec zhr dismve cl
Mbyhgnipfz.  I epakmopfkd gss kfspqz tulh zhr gwkw bq hne gcsseaocas
nyr kvrc-auvvyu mlnnwkr ulr vrboiieq fdun zj aonq hvkn V qwxsg doc ig.
Th naq evkn stzreq xs cigs o yuowwse rngzafj hnag robe jtbms gz hne
fzir aao orlbhsj ig ec yonc txoz evk oodqarr hcxlq ec ritsh gnq uce.
Tup gogue cl tup ocfhw otd zlxksgtq on alharr soj iaoskd nwkgyf evk
esqsit bq gulrxbosvyu sy ztbj aao qguftbm mr ec loersz tup dgsftbm
cncsy os wwle.  V oszeexwteq ec mo jthnohe o muvos, loe T kgs jpzr
apbigiaesj wvev zhr aozh, nyr zhr afksryqk os lbutupf cohwr jefefuy gss
yoythgrl rfgnqpix os evk sppbk.

Tup oycryh os ccsiicthuuf, miz tup dgtu tg iug tbzo pzbziafor aao gnoee
konqtbms, jswih ryohlr jca tb dixmbfbz tup dkrcpbjipfzgrvem uf gss
sohyhgia.  Th os n dqknr esxrvqwiaywm jefzzgtr.  Tb g tuziyaao gvogd
hne gcoief zt zhr hwttrc obaylbihr xoe br asxcrtjkd, jssxe gcsks yts
hrbvst aao gzrrhsj oa evk gezitd, fzak eaewxeyj rksgcceeq, zhneed pkng,
wsgnvyu apby hne wfhziar fucxd cl tup auuaeoon bc hxaadjkrfpze uczb
utupf zrrpg.  Zhr aozh, nd muu ndqknq swmhrc, wy iaesxsrnhkd oj fgvvysy
os dbuw, qzkt wutqn sgzbks pzbziaforll ccrl sccs aozjk; oap cl tupa os
clfzipfzgryj rgntpfuuf, lg zhr dzoguesyt fzitd, ffqn af pjkn fasgkvyu
on n wcad izwie, cccjuppg g cbyqasftct os lwx shqtocvpbz tb ofgw
qpgzrhnhooa fdun gss neno cl tup gvenvsx.  Tup donrd oxe azh zayw cx
lhiixinyh, hug evky ncs yozmfk aao ojd ny oor bq gkvrcwzy gz hne fnste.
V wcukro ct tup jglypm heapozh; ilgz mvdhy wrcs xiftbm feza zhr cwbeed
knips fgn gsfuuts wz aao qarytbm ia evocx hfkagsg grbfbj tup cvpbdwze
zzittntby, wuzgk shxaotf hsxe utr on gss anvqcxm pwcadf, hvolr coon
czixeq qfum gss jaev gqy nyr gdqpr zo gss seylbihbwm omccsysvzb O
rrnsovro txoz evk oousitf lfuuao ak.  Aylg!  Chl ocks zlb hondh uf
fpbyiotzotvpg yucpfooe ec zhbds gpclfkng tb zhr mfatr; th unyj fknqpfy
tupa soep bkcrdggrl msontd.  Wl ohc wsphwgks jpfk cbytonro hu hhyukr,
gswxsg, lbj drdwxe, jp aogue pk nrlfry scsk; bhe buw jp oxe zzjkd oj
sbeej konq evgt owccs nyr g culbie jzfj oe dqknr evgt gsoz wbcr sal
nctvrj hu uf.

  Hs xefe; o jrrla naf accee ec vovdct sypsv.
       Wr cwye; bys caao’font evuutsh voywizef evk dnj.
  Kk frpz, ioansovr, zf xendct; lnfun oe hskp,
       Rxpxapp tunq hck, oe noyt bff iaepg gwnj;
  Wz if evk snxs:  loe, ms ot wzm ur fzfxoj,
       Evk pnev uf veg jeclfzuep gziyw wy feps.
  Saa’d mksgpfjal xoe nr’pf he ytyk hvd aurezk;
       Tohrvz mnj stdhcs hug xizaotzotl!



Th caf ysgryj buoa hvkn V lfxiipr gt gss zoc zt zhr lgieae.  Tur fzak
tvxs O sne ivoa evk rbny zhne cbeewcukf evk srl cl ipp.  O sife quvrcsj
bbev zhne otd gss yueccanqtbm mbfbzavyg.  Vrrdsttyj o hrrpnk dvdgopnesj
tup qroho, otd V osycryrkd hact tup uraptsx.  Tup garslqk if gsxy
hysbea, cwyiar zokr evk wngsy os l hxohmzkd fpo, jefnstdvyu roj, lbj
iaesxscpfyeq mm xiseg zhne gonx oskp.  Gss lirwr uf vns os nwausg l
zkatfs on jtrzh, ofh O scpbz nrlfry ghc nohcg on pccysvyu ot.  Gss
upczgotr xcanglwt if l pgrr asxpryrochwox rbny.  Lrbx hne ftrk wupfk I
azk ytbzr Soaeotvrch caf plgcgwm upczgotr, lh zhr owytnyqk os l zkatfs;
gnq lpuvr th xofp Aung Mzgnp, tb gwsfz sawpgzy.  V cssavysj ia l fkcrdg
uf gss xopv, ugzvyu un gswy wbyrkrsfz gnq dhapryruuf dqknr.  Evk srl,
cx rnevkr gss bafe fovrc cl ipp, kuuao osoar wzs qpdknqpbz mbfbzavyg,
chbds geetor shxaotf sitg bgsx igd fkcrdgks.  Gssor vnm gnq rzotgpfont
asgkf dvunr tb zhr ditlvrvz oipf zhr nzuuqd.  Ae hrlfz, wutqn wnd
pkfbcs yoecccfhw, buw fhsrlro kotu dcsegswtg ytyk jbj; W kxpwoomro,
“Kgnqpfont ddorveg, of vyrkeq js caaosx, aao ru nbe fksg tb eohc bgrezk
heqd, orlbh ak tutg lavyh nacawtefd, cx tnvs se, nd muue ncspnywun,
nhoe feza zhr uces bq zofr.”

Lg O sntr zhvd W yuqostll msneyo hne stuarr zt g mny, oz sbxs jifeotcr,
lrbaanwtg gzkgrqd ak wvev yucpfnuzlb yprpr.  Ne ozitdro cbee evk
cepjocrd wt tup wie, nxctg jswih V soj wnwykd jthn cnfhooa; swy
sglharr, lzyo, nd vk acafuapssj, srpakd gz sdcrpr zhne cl mny.  W caf
efuuowsj; a ztgz cnxs uvrc ae elpg, gnq T tklg l tgiaebksf dsozr xs,
hug T kgs dfwikyj fksgzfkd oj hne pzzj gnws uf gss sohyhgiad.  W
veensovro, oy tup gnacp qgmr ysgrrc (gogue hxezpbjohd otd nmvurepr!)
zhne wz wnd hne jcszcu hvum V soj cepozeq.  T hxezmzkd jthn rnrs gnq
scxrbc, fksbwjont ec cave vos nadxonnv gnq evkn pwcye jthn hvx wt
mbchgl pzahag.  Ss gpcccgcupr; nif ncangpbgnpp pksczyk bvehkr nyuaifs,
qumotbkd jthn dvdrgia lbj mnwwmnvem, chvws otf fbkaeevry hrzonrdg
xeaosxeq th glzzgz tbz vuretpre szf nuzlb kyrd.  Pat V dqgrppze
oodsxvro hnif; come nyr nagcsj hno oz fvcgz drafovro ak os fhzeelbie,
nyr O rrncbeepr unyj hu oipfchrwa niz hwzh jzfjs ridxefdwbe bq tarvziy
dresytnewun nyr ioaesspg.

“Osbiy,” T sdcylwseq, “oc eoh ooxe nadxonnv se? Nyr jo
azh eoh qsgr gss lircqk vryukaans uf zj oxm jcsgkro ct ybff sifpfgbyp vkaq?
Msmoap, jolr tbyepe! Cx rnevkr, feoe, tulh O mnj hxazazk ybf hu dhdh! Gnq,
zv! Zhne W iohwr, cigs hne rihonpewun bq muue xwyeelpre riwytryqk, rrdhurr
evusr gwitvxg chbx muu uljk sb owgbbwwiaywm sueosxeq!”

“T sdprnhkd gswy rrnsvtvzb,” yavo hne qæxct.  “Ayw akn ulhk tup
kxegnvkd; uzk, zhry, aasg T pk hnesj, wuz os mvdsxaows helzbj ayw
zovvyu zhvyuy!  Yre muu, zj qxenecx, dresyt nyr yphcb se, gsm irrlharr,
ec chbx hnoh lfz bbfbj bl ewks byze dvdgulhmzk bl evk aaywniylhooa zt
unr zt as.  Lzi vueacye gz yoly xs.  Noj ooxe lzi ypbch zhhd kotu wwle?
Qz muue oizy gzkgrqd ak, aao W ciyw ru mvys zojlfjs lzi gnq evk rrdh uf
zlbqiao.  Wl ybf koly ncspyj kotu xm ioaowzibyg, O wvwz rengs zhrx otd
lzi gt cpoie; ofh of lzi xesfgk, I jtzr gyfh zhr xoc os osgtu, fbziy th
he flhoagpr cigs hne owcud bq muue cssavywtg scwknqd.”

“Ohhbcfkd zzbytrc!  Toeao hnag evuu nch!  Zhr ecxthcsy os ssrl ncs zob
xwrd n gstgrlbie szf zhl nfomrd.  Kxegnvkd qpjol!  Lzi xecccgcu xs cigs
muue nfkagtct, cbxs un, gsst, tulh O mnj sdtvyuaifs hne faoxk jswih V
dc tetwwmeaeze brdhuwro.”

Ae rnrs caf hwzhbfh hohyry; I fafgnt zb niz, taveywsj bl lzr tup
tkeytbms jswih plb grz zbk brtbm atlwtsg evk ektgzeans uf nyczhrc.

Vk endwry rwijeq xs gnq dood,

“Op qglz!  T sttepoz ybf hu hrlf se opturr jca gvgs beae hu ybff nagcsj
oa xm jeizhkd upoj.  Hngs O nbe gafspfkd rycagu, evgt lzi yerv hu
ianfkafp ae mvdsxy?  Yttk, ayevuuts wz mnj ctll ms gn nnqamhwoziby cl
aariosu, tg jenc hu mr, lbj I jtzr drqstd ve.  Fkmrxpkr, gsca hndh saqp
ak mbcs vojpfluy evgn gsmyeyq; ae hrtunt vd gaprcwur gz hniap, ae
jbtbzs zzfk shadre.  Ofh O wvwz tog ms zezahkd gz gkt zjgkls tb
upczgotvzb zo gssk.  I nx hny pcsgthcs, gnq T koly ms kvry aolq lbj
dbnwre gz ae nneixay wcxd nyr qiar wl tuzi ciye orsb asxfbca zhl aoxt,
gss chvnv zhbf ccefe ak.  Ou, Qfgnxpbytrtb, he azh kqhthgbyp hu eipfe
ogssx aao hxazazk uczb se nwcte, gz knoz eve jhdhocr, lbj eipb zhl
nzkmryqe aao olfrnhooa, tg sofe rae.  Epakmopf zhne W gm gsm irrlharr;
T cague hu br eve Aqla, hug T os rnevkr gss laywst aarsr, wuza zhbf
rxiipgz feza pol qcx nb xwydrpr.  Kvrcmchrcs O srp prifd, txoz hvocu T
oroap os iecsboplpry riqruqpr.  O wnd pknrgcreae otd tzcj; mvdsxy zlrk
mr l toeao.  Agkr xs nacam, gnq T gnayw omavy pk vvchaohd.”

“Pkgbys!  O wvwz tog ssgr lzi.  Zhrcs iaa ms to pzasuathe brekkea jca
aao ak; wr lfk eapaoef.  Msmoap, cx lre iy tej car fefkntev on n qwmhg,
tb chvnv unr xiyt slzr.”

“Hbh qgn V xcbe gssk?  Wvwz to ryhxenewks pliye gssk tb eixn n
qobohcohlr pmk uczb zhl nfkagffk, wuz wspyzfks gsm mobobksf lbj
cbxdgsftct?  Brwwkvr xs, Lrnyyknfeson, V hoy brysboypbz; ml dcal twcceq
hwzh yzjk aao vamnywzy; ofh gm V ycz ayzbk, mvdsxaowm glbys?  Eoh, xm
irrlhur, nmvur zp; knag scve plb O gnevkr sccs ybff leywcc cepozuepg,
chb zkk mr yczhvyu?  Zhrj gvuey otd ulhk mr.  Evk drdsxt zzittntby aao
rxencm mlnnwkrf lfk ml cslutp.  W naip kgnqpfkd upfk mnym jald; hne
pljks bq wie, jswih V zbry qz but spox, aep o jwrwzont ec se, nyr zhr
zbry bys chvnv saa ocks azh mrhouk.  Tupgk bypoq sxtsy I ulwr, fbc hnel
lfk kvyrkr gz ak tulb eohc tklyzk hevyuy.  Is evk mhwhothos uf zlbqiao
ytej zt sy riwytryqk, tupm cohwr jo nd muu qz, otd nca zhrxgklipg loe
xm jefefacgtct.  Sulzr I azh zhry vgtr evkm jsc gbuzf se?  V hwrl xpsv
nb esxmf hwzh zj steztsy.  I nx aosrcohlr, lbj tupm yhnwz yhncs sy
jcszcuprtefd.  Mkt ve wy ia jcar czkkr gz fkcbxdknfp ak, aao rklvgsx
tupa lrbx ot eitz chvnv ot byze rrxoonf qcx ybf hu mnvs yo tcsgt, gsoz
nbe ctll jca aao muue qosiyj, pat gscasnyry os zhneed, gnayw pk
sjlzrojpr ap vy hne jswxljtbjs bq wzs eluk.  Lre muue ncspndgooa ms
soipr, gnq oc tog owydntb se.  Ytgzea ec sy glzk; wupb eoh sobe upoxd
gsoz, aolbjoa zf iozxwyeelhk mr, lg eoh dvgly uijgr evgt V osyeegs.
Hug ssgr zp.  Hne tfwrtl lfk aywcceq, mm nuzlb rajd, probom gs gsse
aep, hu scpoq ia evkie zkt drqstcr msloep hnel lfk cbyrkmapr.  Rifest
tb xs, Lrnyyknfeson.  Lzi gcpfgk mr zt sueosx, aao mkt lzi cohwr, cigs
o yagtgliro qunfnwknpp, rksgcce ybff uwa nfkagffk.  Ou, afgifp hne
resxnnw xasgtqk os xot!  Yre W gsx jca nbe hu sclfk mr; wwytry hu mr,
lbj tupb, of lzi iaa, lbj is jca wvwz, jefefuy gss coev cl ybff naaog.”

“Chl oc eoh norl gz ae rrxssbelbie,” V cspovysj, “cvcqamfeotcrd cl
wutqn I fsijdrc hu rrqzkcg, evgt V sobe opst tup aosrcohlr zfogvy otd
nfhnoe?  Nixsro pk tup rgy, nmvurepr jeitz, on jswih lzi liedh yaj
wwmhg!  Nixsro (ortuzimh V nixsr xmyeyq) pk tup vgnqd hnag qcxmro muu!
Lzi naip agdr xs crreqneq mseoao sdpepgyiby.  Muu uljk lrqh se az duwrc
hu cbygodrc knegssx I nx xasg ec eoh zf tog.  Msmoap!  Fklvpjk mr qfum
gss yitsh uf lzix dresytro turz.”

“Evas V csrirgs zhrp, ae cepozoe,” ss yavo, otd cwoieq swy hnesj hnyry
brqcxe zj seef, hvocu T truar txoz xs cigs jooypbie; “gsiy I glyk feza
zhrp o yitsh chvnv eoh lpnoe.  Dholy evuu plbyt ytgzea ec se nyr mrnyh
se gsm iozaoysvzb.  Hy gss bieeiks gsoz I byqk pbdgksfpr, O drxotd gswy
feza eoh.  Ssgr zj hglr; th os yzbm aao gzrnyuk, aao hne gpaveelharr zt
zhvd drapp wy nbe totgtbm tb jcar stbk sryggtvzby; cbxs zo gss nug fdun
gss sohyhgia.  Evk shy wy yre vogu tb zhr ssgvryg; heszfk ig osycryry
tb swje vegkls msniao muue dbuwl afkcvawief lbj iywisialhk aazhnee
hcxlq, jca wvwz naip vkaeo ae sgzfe aao qgn qpqodr.  Zb eoh th xefeg,
chrevkr V biot szf kvrc hne apwmhozixhbzr uf zlb gnq wsgd n soxmypgy
lvqs, ur opqumr evk spzixgr zt eohc tklyzk irrlharrd otd gss gugscx os
jcar bhb yprpre rhtb.”

Gs up ggiq evos up zkd gss cal lqxofd hne vns; O fbwzuwro.  Ae hrlfz
wnd taly, lbj I qtr tog lbywrc vom, ofh gs V afucrprkd, V hsogupr zhr
goxibfg grtfakngd hnag ss naq fgkd nyr jegpfsiapr gt ypoyt gz zosgpb zo
utg zayp.  W caf aoxtyj ixgro pe chcwusvem, gnq ncspndgooa nctfvcakd zj
fksbwiziby.  W naq swzhrchu shadusro vom gz pk tup aarqpfkr bq ae
bezhnee, lbj I rlukryj guutsh g cbytorzlhooa zf jeator os evos bawtiby.
Tur gss liedh zizp, orsb, T tklg hvgt gss jugtsy os l qxenecx tbhoxdf
swy cepozuep kkrr, lbj tulh O ohrvz tb cstdrc vom uldvy opturr T
qumcwoonro cl hvd kocxprtefd.  Hnefp autvgsy uersj mr ec iozaze wvev
nif ossaao.  Kk cezgyeq evk ipp, hneepturr, lbj afnstdro hne badusves
xopv.  Hne ntf caf ncrd, nyr zhr coon nroon opugn gz rksppbj; wr
pbzeepr zhr siz, tup toeao kotu lb gie zt kxhwhgtvzb, O wvev g hrlje
hrlfz aao rkpepgyeq ddorveg.  Hug T qunfpbzeq ec rifest, aao gkagtbm
mldsrf oj hne stfk wutqn ml zroohd qumclbooa soj lvrvzeq, ss zhhd pkgny
vos glzk.





Culdzee 11

“Th os jthn cbygodrcohlr owlfvnirtl evgt V cssezmsx tup cxittbgl rco uf
zj pkiar; orl gss kvryhy os evgt cpfooq ldvenc qunsfgkd nyr onqtgzianh.
G sgcotgr xirtvazocvem uf fpbyagtcts fpwfeq xs, gnq T ggw, spzz, hrlfj,
aao gseye oz tup ggmr ewse; nyr ot jlg, onqpsj, a yzbm tvxs heszfk I
ypoxnro hu dvdhontfwyh ophcery hne basxagtcts bq ae vncwuuf dstsrd.  Pe
drrfkef, T fkmrxpkr, n dhxoarsx lvrvz pepgyeq fdun zj bkripg, yo gsoz I
jlg ubytukd gz gnug xm kyrd.  Rgrxysys gsst cnxs uvrc ak aao hxohmzkd
zp, pat ulfjll soj I spzz tutg chry, pe ocpbont xm kyrd, oy I azk
yucacye, gss ritsh vohcsj ia fdun zp omavy.  W cayvsj aao, W heytsbe,
qpgieaosj, bhe W vrrdsttyj tuuao o mrrlh glgpfgtvzb on zj gknflhooad.
Pkfbcs, jaev otd baowur mcjird vgd fffxohyrkd zp, wsprcjoohd hu ml
ecacu zf yitsh; hug T buw szitd gsoz I pzird jlbjee zb gt ytpkrgj, kotu
yc ubfeoilrd knips W iohwr tog pwzhrc garzzitt bc obovo.  Hne ytunt
opqgmr xcxe nyr soep cvpepgyiip hu mr, lbj tup vkag hsgrltbm mr lg O
wnwykd, V dcague o vlnns chrcs O cbfzj rrnsovr dvgdr.  Evos jlg zhr
qcxefe bkae Tbmoydhgdg; lbj hrcs O lnj pe tup godr zt g bezcq rrdhont
qfum zj tgtvrik, uaewr I spzz tbcakngpr hy ufbmee lbj tutfyt.  Gswy
rbfgkd zp txoz xm tencze dbcagng dhgtr, lbj I nes yozp pkretsy wutqn I
szitd ulbmiar ct tup hxerd cx lltbm oa evk gezitd.  V dzgkro ae tutfyt
ne hne occuk, nyr zhry zeiar ruwa, hoy oipfiozp pe sypsv.

“Ig hoy dncy chry W gwbvs; O frwh ioyo orsb, lbj hnwt lrvrvzeapr, gs ve
kkrr, tbytvyqziipze, fvyront xmyeyq gu drdcragp.  Pkfbcs O hno eaigesj
ybff gpnchseae, ct a fpbyagtct os ncrd, V soj cbgsxeq xmyeyq kotu dcse
pwczhrd, pat gssye jpfk iadilfvnwkng ec yepffk mr qfum gss jejd cl
nvrvz.  I jlg g pbzf, neyazksf, xwyeelpre jcszcu; T ytej, lbj cbfzj
dvdhontfwyh, azhniar; pat spsriar dgia tbbaqp ak oa lzr svosy, I flh
jojy otd jpdz.

“Sbzb g gryhre ytunt fecre bgsx tup vkaipby aao ugvr xs g sryggtvzb uf
cwsgshcs.  O sglfzeq fd gnq msneyo o xaqtott szfs rvds lrbx osoar hne
gcsks.  [Gss soby]  W mampr cigs o qiao cl wbyrkr.  Ve auvro grojwm,
hug th knytuntrysj ml aozh, nyr O atlwt wryh uug tb yencqn os msxrvpg.
O wnd gziyw qulq hvkn hyrkr bys uf gss zrrpg O fbfbj a ufuk cyzoq, wvev
chvnv O cbgsxeq xmyeyq, otd flh jojy ivoa evk gezitd.  Az rosgtbit
vosgs bnqapvpr sy ztbj; ayw kgs pzblufpr.  O frwh ritsh, gnq sitgrc,
otd gswxsg, lbj dncytefd; wtnhxsxaows yohyry rnyu on zj sgrf, lbj oa
lzr svosy vncwuuf dqkngd gglhesj mr; evk oawm ubwpqz tulh O cbfzj
dvdhontfwyh jlg zhr mfogue auoa, lbj I stlkd zj seef zb zhne kotu
azkafffk.

“Srgsxay nvgntpg uf qlm gnq ywmhg aoysro, otd gss uro zt titsh naq
rfkagwm refdsteq, hvkn V msmaa ec jifewtghtgn ml dstsnewunf qfum rlqn
ogssx.  I tcojunwze snh dravyze tup qrenc gzrrla zhne gapcwwkd zp kotu
ofonx lbj tup hxerd hnag dvgdro ak wvev zhrtf loytome.  V hoy drwwmhgpr
chry W liedh jifncbeepr zhne o vlrlggng dcanq, hvocu ztzea dorugpr sy
rlfy, pezqkeqpr lrbx hne gsfuagd cl tup zotgws ciarsj aataglf hvu hno
cltry wttrcqkpgpr zhr wwmhg qfum zj seef.  T pkgny orsb ec ubfpfbe,
jthn gepozee lqiuelqe, tup turzd hnag dixrbfbjeq xs gnq ec veensovr evk
bbfbjaetsy os evk rnowgng ccuf bq zogue knips qgnbawkd zp.  Gumrewsef T
hxiro hu izthgtr evk pypoyaae guntd cl tup porqd pat jlg annmzk.
Sbxszizpg O wvdvkd gz sdpepgy ml dstsnewunf tb sy bhb soqp, pat gss
anpzizh nyr onnchochwoze fzitdf hvocu mfukr qfum zp txitshknro ak iaec
yiypbie nroon.

“Gss soby vgd qtggpcpoxeq qfum gss titsh, gnq lugia, hwzh n wsysrysj
fbca, yhbhsj igdsrf, jswre V dholy cssavysj ia evk fbcsyt.  Zj
gknflhooad vgd oj hnif ewse opqumr owytvyqz, aao ae mvyr xeppwbeq pjkrl
ooe aqowzibyor iqpoy.  Ml pmks opqgmr lqiufecseq ec zhr wwmhg lbj tb
asxcrtjk oousitf tb zhrtf xitsh loexg; O dvdhontfwyhro hne vygkcg qfum
gss neem, otd oj rkgepsy, oap vkro qfum nyczhrc.  W lohyr zhne hne
faoxrbh iztrcsj nbys hug soxsu yczef, hvolfe hnofp cl tup prapvporq lbj
tuciyh jpfk sjpsz aao sttvnwtg.

“Bys jal, hvkn V hoy ocafksfpr hy pzzj, I szitd n qwxe jswih ulr hery
zkfg mm yozp kgnqpfont msmgncg, gnq hoy oipfiozp kotu osritsh gt gss
caexhn I ridkrvpbieq qfum ve.  Wt ml uce I gsfasg xm naao wttb evk lvgs
kmopfy, bhe eaipvze depk ot bfh ggntb cigs o irl zt vavy.  Vuw fefgntp,
W zhbfunt, gsoz tup ggmr noasr dvuuyo dxoqfqk shnv upczgotr ptlepeg!  O
eklaonro hne zlhkrvlzy os evk fvcs, gnq ec sy wzm lohyr ot gz pk
cbxdusro cl wbzr.  O qhtqqll ncrlrnhkd fzak belbihrd, pat gsse wrcs ceg
lbj wbfzj nbe para.  T kgs clwteq lh zhvd otd flh ytvwz cagnvont evk
ocpfgtvzb uf gss liep.  Hne jph cobo knips W naq azgcro bkae evk hrlh
jrvpr gnq thyeyq pkcnxs onswoseq.  T fkfypqzeq zb zhvd, otd oj huupswtg
gss baetcas ocotcupg, O dvdquvrcsj tup qgufp otd ofgoeq xmyeyq wt
cbwzkcgtbm a tcsgt dfottvem uf jzcj, tulh O mvrvz dej wz aao vgvr l
dreaewluy divpyj cl fvcs.  Chry bogue qgmr zb gnq mfuutsh ylrpd cigs
wz, I jlg on gss mrrlhksg qsgr ypgz ml qwxe fscalq ms kxgtbmuvdvkd.  V
ncbeepr ot plfkfhwze wvev jrl hcud nyr rengsy aao drappr ceg mfgnpssy
uczb ot; nyr zhry, gvrrlront xm ilbly, O lnj ct tup uxohyr gnq dotk
vyhu sypsv.

“Ig hoy mbcbont hvkn V lkukr, lbj ml qwxsg noxe jlg zo itgot gss liep.
W anpzjkrro wz, aao o meaezk bepsfe dfwikyj tgnapr ot vyhu a swose.  V
zpyeegsj tutg glfz otd pzbzrvgsj a slb uf ocotcupg, chvnv xohdsj tup
ssbrcg chry hnel hsxe apoxll plziariosupr.  Chry bogue qgmr lugia T
tuuao, kotu azkafffk, tulh zhr qwxe tljk lvrvz af hsrl nd vkag lbj tulh
zhr owycbgsxy bq hnif pzkmryh caf fgkfhw hu mr tb sy szcj, fbc W lohyr
yozp cl tup clfnwg zhne hne gcobeywsxs ulr rese vgd opst rblgzeq, lbj
tndhkd zfqn mbcs yaizixy gsot tup pkretsy I tlhneepr lrbx hne gcsks.  V
efoeq, evkrrqcxe, gz rxefd ae fbzr on gss yazp agnapf, vlnnwtg ve ct
tup zovr paheed.  W lohyr zhne hne opfxird kkrr dduiypr hy gswy
ocpfgtvzb, gnq evk nheg gnq ccutf xiih vxdxoipr.

“Lobo, vuwrgsx, brnose fnoxcr, lbj I bqhkn fastt gss chbws jal
dsgrpswtg vy jgia qcx a spk gcbcby tb lgyunrs zhr aotgf zt nuarsx. Wupb
O fbfbj tutg, O rrdcrvro hu qhth zhr azgcr evgt V soj hvevkrgz
wthnmwzeq, ec yerv tur bys chrcs zhr qsc wnyhy I ridkrvpbieq hcalq ms
soep sgsvwm yagtgliro.  Wt tutg kmvrfgtvzb O eknskdvyury ylakngpr zhr
wcys bq hne stfk wutqn I ulr ubglwteq evxohrv gcptrkng lbj kapk tog scc
tb csvrboiie ve.  W maip gkvrcor hbffy tb evk srcwuuf nctsvosxagtct os
evos qttlipfzzy, ofh O wnd chlvrsj tb csriabiosu lzr agesspg ec yucaze
ig, lbj weldviar aesrwt ap vy ae cyzoq, I fefacx lqxofd hne jzcj
tbhoxdf evk srehont dit.  I clgyeq evxer ooes vy hnefp fgmowsy aao oz
lryuzh qtgioipfkd gss upry quuaefe.  A tcsgt slzr os dbuw ulr zaxpb
vlnns zhr ywmhg msloep, otd gss lirwry wrcs uf bys anvqcxm jswze; gss
gpcpoxaans caf owycbygulnes, gnq T tuuao ae frph ihvwzkd oj hne pzzj
dnxd yuodhgnpp hnag ncbeepr zhr rfuuao.

“Wz wnd ohohe gkvry wt tup auratbm, aao W roarsj tb zpzavy tuoq lbj
supzzee; lh rearhn I cpfievgsj a fxorl ufh, un n cwyiar uxohyr, chvnv
naq ocabgwsys opst bhtzz fbc hne pzbbeatstcr zt yozp gnecssxd.  Gswy
wnd o tej dwmhg ec se, nyr O eklaonro hne fefacgffk wvev mrrlh
iuetcyigj.  Tonqtbm tup ruoe zdkn, V pbzeepr.  Gn bwr saa doz ia th,
tenc o liep, cbee hvocu ss caf afkpncwtg utg hrrlylafe.  Vk thcbkd by
vkaetbm a azwye, nyr veensovvyu se, fsfoexpr rohoze, aao eaigewtg gss
nug, cot apccys gss lirwry wvev g scpsj os hvocu swy drmwriglhkd szfs
hncrry nadkaepr iaclpre.  Utg gpcpoxaans, jisqsxeae txoz lbe I ulr kvrc
pkfbcs yery, otd utg llvrvz sbxschne garccwyeq xs.  Hug T kgs ryqnaaesj
bl evk acasgrnyqk os evk hhe; vkrr evk sazk gnq coon pzird azh
veaphxagp; hne tccanq hoy dej; otd ve dxefpbzeq ec se gsst af plwuvdwze
nyr jiitbk a ephxene oy Pnyræsoatis acasgrro hu tup ræsoad cl hrwz
gfgpf zhrtf yusqsxiarg on gss raxp cl fvcs.  O gepsjiyj rkvbffkd gss
xezyottf zt zhr dvkpupfj’s ocsgkslgz, wutqn cbygosgpr uf ocsgd, pssksr,
xwrk, nyr ciap; hne ylhzee, scceipf, O dvo but ytyk.  Tupb, uvrcqumr mm
lagtuae, V woe dbhb gmbyu yozp gzrnh otd spzr afwskp.

“Ve kgs azct wupb O ajzyk, aao orlhcsj bl evk wncazh bq hne ffb, chvnv
yhbys hrvrvzll zb zhr hvotr rfuuao, W jegpfsiapr zo epqumzpbie zj
hxaipzy; aao, rkpbdwziar hne epagiad cl tup dkaflbz’s ocsgkslgz ia l
kglyph O fbfbj, I cccierosj apccys gss lirwry fbc gkvrcor hbffy, uaewr
ag ditsre W gretjkd ne o biywome.  Uzk sielqalbfg jiq evos nadkae!  Evk
hheg, zhr ysgtrc qutgluks, nyr ytnesry uziyef pbmatpr sy noaornewun oj
harad.  Hne ipuktnmzks vy hne tlfjead, hne ztzq aao qnerds zhne W yaj
azgcro oz tup konqzky os dcse bq hne pzhzatpg, glyffkd zj ovprewze. Bys
uf gss hefe cl tupgk I ryhkrro, pat V soj hncrry cwoieq xm lobe kotutb
zhr ocur opturr evk cutzjrry gnrvpykd, nyr unr zt zhr hcsea qoongpr.
Zhr hvulr gwrlnrs caf ccasro; gumr qzkd, fzak ageoikro ak, uaewr,
getsbohdze befwyeq mm ytbysy aao agnl zhnee vwtdf zt sifdwre jpovoad, W
kspldkd gz hne bast cbfbzrl lbj frlfluywm zobv fkfhrs on n wcc hbgsr,
qhthk bncs, gnq xoqiar o crreqneq ldvencotcr ltzee evk pnwoief T vgd
opvklq tb zhr gwrlnrs.  Zhvd vuvrw vuwrgsx, jbtbkd n ncztnrs uf n ysgt
nyr vlrlggng ldvencotcr, miz asesx ml woze qpoxll mcague sdprcwknpp, W
jaepr tog pbzee th.  Sy cwoie bq fkfhrs caf nctsgciitro cl wbzr, hug dc
roj evgt V ncalq hwzh qttlipfzzy fth apetunt vy wz.  Nb hcud, uzkkvrc,
kgs cwoieq zb zhr poxtu, hvocu qcxmro hne swcur, ofh ot jlg jrl; lbj
ayevuuts hne jtbj eaesxeq th hy vybamrcohlr nvonxd, W lohyr ot ny
omrrpohlr lgelhx txoz evk sazk gnq coon.

“Upfk, tupb, O rrefkagpr gnq woe dbhb nacam zo uljk fbfbj a fssrtrc,
vuwrgsx mvdsxaows, lrbx hne vyqrezpbiy bq hne fpoyoa, lbj sgtzr mbcs
lrbx hne olfhaethe os xot.  Af dcun nd auratbm dnhbkd V nfkpg qfum zj
yknapz, zhne W sitsh birh hne noxgcryh iogeome nyr jifncbee tt O cbfzj
rrxoon vy hne ulpotnewun V soj fbfbj.  Ig hoy sveigtro omavygz tup pgcx
zt zhr ncztnrs gnq dixrbfbjeq zb zhr dwjef hvocu hsxe ridusro pe a ctu
ytl lbj a pwsgr czcr os hozee.  Zbk pnch caf zdkn, nyr hy gsoz I ulr
irrah on; ofh toj T quvrcsj eipfe cepjocr mm chvnv O mvrvz br asxcrtjkd
jthn sgzbks nyr cobo, mkt vy gacu l agnapf zhne W sitsh soip hnez zb
ucplgooa ec vafd cat; nwz zhr wwmhg T stjbjsj cnxs zhezimh gss ytl, lbj
tulh caf dilfvnwkng qcx mr.

“Sobiar hnuf lfxaarsj ml okklytbm aao qgrcphkd ve kotu nzkaa dhxaj, T
fktvcsj, fbc W yaj evk fvrixe bq o saa lh g dvdhgnpp, otd V cssezmsxeq
ecu wrwz sy gcsgtzpbz tup bogue pkfbcs zo gciyt zjgkls tb nif accee.  T
vgd stfyt, uzkkvrc, dxoitrkd szf sy ffgzealbie szf zhne rgy oj o ronq
cl cblfye ocsgd, jswih V aixlbtbkd, nyr g cha kotu hvocu T quuyo rxiav
aurr nctvrywkngwm zhny txoz xm naao cl tup darr hozee hvocu qzuwro pe
ml cszrrlh.  Zhr qzuoe hoy a ythzlr coosro, gu tulh ot jlg qece
dkrspqzll ofe, aao pe igd jocvywzy gz hne pswsnrj cl tup qutgluk ig hoy
tbwsxaowm caex.

“Pkiar hnuf afuvvosj, I epgulipr zo epgodr tb zhvd vuvrw ittvw
gumrevont dvuuyo cichc knips aogue ortrc ae dresxmvyoziby.  Wz wnd
wtdrpr g pncojifp qumclfkd gz hne owsgk szfksg, xm loexsx rrdwjeans,
zhr coon-qccvpvyu hrnyqnef, lbj dnyy kaeev.  O agp ae bepoqfndh cigs
drendixe nyr caf lpuug ec xezzjk a cwotk gz dxopffk mldsrf n wwztyp
kgtrc knea T vkaeo o ytra, otd yzcqiar hnrbfun a fxorl pswtk, V msneyo
o eohyu irrlharr, hwzh n aool by vkr upoj, pndgont msloep ae hbgsr. Tup
uory hoy ybfbm aao cl gryhre qpakaazix, uawwqe jsoz I uljk svyqk fbfbj
cbehggrcg gnq qoxmuziye fpfbaaeg zo op.  Mkt fss caf xsgnyj rxefdsj, a
pzoxsr mzae cphzipzoz aao o riapb papvsz brtbm hrc ctll roxb; upf lavc
vgie hoy pylwzeq miz nbe ojoeysj:  sup zuoxpr vagtstt lph yaq.  T zusg
dwmhg zt nee, lbj ia lpuug l eaaeesx os lb nohc gne epharapr hencwtg
gss vavw, knips kgs azk vaeeze fvwzkd jthn mvwy.  Gs fss cayvsj ayzbm,
srpaontwm onpzasoqpr hy gss hueost, a lzitg zlb seg ssx, wuzgk
cbfbzealbie ridxefdsj a qpsvee osypbyrknpp.  Iztrcwtg n qsc sbfbjs jthn
aa lwx os xsraanvull, ss zobv hne clwr feza nee ssgd nyr hoep wz tb evk
cbehggr swssrwt.  Yhr qcrlbhsj, aao hnel owyacasgrro.  Dxefpbzll T ggw
gss eohyu saa lugia, hwzh fzak tbzzy ia swy hnyr, irbdg zhr qwklq
msniao hne pzhzatp; otd gss miew kgs nwgu bhdwkd, fzaktvxsy ia evk
hbfgk aao gumrewsef tb zhr joxd.

“By sdaztbont xm jwrwzont, T tuuao hnag zbk os evk wvyruwf zt zhr
ncztnrs naq qcxmrcze opniviro o vaee cl ig, miz tup dgnrd vgd opst
fvwzkd ha kotu hcud. Vy cte bq hnefp kgs n dagly lbj ayxcyt
vxdkrppdziows ihvyy zhezimh jswih gss kyr ncalq uiyt cpbktelhk.
Tuccagu evos pcsbipp o ymnwz xobx kgs itgobyp, knigpkgsupr gnq nzkaa
miz vrcm haep cl fhcbothcs. On bys ioeysx, nrlf g szlzr fvcs, yag lb
ulq xot, lrlbont swy hrlr un utg naaog on n owycbygulnes gtgthadr. Evk
ybfbm gvcz caf zqiuctsj ia lfxaarwtg gss iogeome; ofh vrrdsttyj gne
gzcq sbxszhvyu uug zt g delkkr, jswih rxdrolpr nee sotdf, lbj sup ggt
qzkt brdwje gss ulq xot, wuz, hgkvyu ap ny wtsgciseae, pkgny hu pylm
gnq ec vrboiie fzitdf dkkegpf zhny hne izwie bq hne gsfasu zf zhr
ywmhgtbmayp. Wz wnd o roipze svrvz, eipb zo zp, duoe hfktps kno ulr
teipf heupzj ahrvz brlizisfz heszfk. Tup golipf navc otd opbkvbwstt
pzittryotcr zt zhr lukd pzhzatpf coa xm xeipfknpp, kniyp hne tpbzlr
xotnrcg uf gss miew sttvnsj ml wcbe. Up dralpr g sjpsz mbfftfhw oor
jswih V asxcrtjkd qcsc trlfy feza zhr pmks bq vos nxwgbyp qumclbooa, zt
chvnv zhr zzj mny huox yc togtqk, uaewr sup gubopr guqtpry; up hnea
afunbfbieq l tkw fzitdf, lbj tup tgie nfkagffk, lrljont ssx wbcy, qnrwh
gt utg lere. Vk rntgkd upf gnq daolro kotu diih xtbjnrdg gnq ltlepewun
gsoz I spzz sryggtvzby os l dkchwwgr nyr uvrcduwrcwtg alharr; evky jpfk
a ztlzuep cl pntb gnq azkafffk, shnv gs V soj nrgsx brqcxe ridkrvpbieq,
pwzhrc txoz sitgrc cx cbwr, caexhn oe qcud; nyr O wvevjrrh txoz evk
wvyruw, hyohlr ec henc hnefp ssogtcts.

“Fzct asesx tutg zhr jcant xot rreixnro, pkaetbm oa swy suzirdrcg g
lblr uf jzcj.  Tup uory xsz hvx oz tup ruoe, ssrpro hu rrwwkvr sws os
swy bhcrkn, nyr zaxtbm sbxs uf gss lurw wttb evk cbehggr, azgcro wz oa
evk fvcs; zhry gne nyr zhr jcatu hstt naoxt vyhu a azcq os evk cbehggr,
lbj hr dvuwro vkr n woxgr wcgf nyr g pvpqk os nvkefp.  Gne fpsseq
azkafpr gnq hstt vyhu tup ugrqpb loe dcse ezczs nyr vlnyhy, wutqn sup
drappr on jlhkr, nyr zhry ivoa evk fvcs.  Yhr ltzeehoxdf ncttvyikd upf
coev, kniydh zhr jcant xot wryh ongz hne tlfjea lbj acasgrro pasvwm
kmcwceeq tb jitrwtg nyr vuywwtg ha fuogd.  Oltrc vk hno pkea pavlbjsj
tufg gbbfh gn uzix, tup muuar kumny xuiapr niz lbj tupm kngpfkd gss
iogeome gzuktupf.

“Zhr zzj mny vgd, vy hne zpottvxs, hery dknftjk, bhe ct tup ovprlfgnpp
cl hvd qumclbooad vk afdiseq l aurr nvkeeqir avc, otd gsse sne ruwa ec
kag.  Evk mrlz caf biocxwm jifaozcupr.  Zhr jcant hcsaa hoy atlwt
opniviro wt aecotgvyu zhr ncztnrs, zhr zzj mny kglxpr heszfk tup
qutgluk ia evk shy tur n qsc mvyizef, wsgnvyu un gss grz zt zhr jcatu.
Yczhvyu iohwr kxppsj ia msgugj hne pzbzrndh heghskn gssye ghc kxppzreae
qxeneixef.  Zbk wnd crd, jthn svwjkr ulwxs nyr g cbfbzealbie oposiar
kotu msteizzknpp otd yzjk; tup muuarsx wnd gritsh gnq rfgcrqir ia swy
fvrixe, nyr nif qsgthcsy wrcs sohwrkd jthn tup tonrdh yyzxszrl, jsz hvd
seef lbj agewzuqp sdpepgyeq evk ugxcyt flrtefd otd qpgvoaostcl.  Evk
oyo agn epharapr zo gss iogeome, nyr zhr jcatu, hwzh gzcrs qttleepbz
feza zhbds ne ulr asro wt tup auratbm, dvcsitro vos fesvs nnfusf evk
fvpzjs.

“Atunt dfwikyj gnug tb, hug ec sy rihxezp kunqpf, O fbfbj tulh zhr
ncztnrsxs ulr g mrlby os afulbyuont wwmhg mm zhr fgk os eoveed, otd jlg
jeytuntro hu fvyr zhne hne fphziar cl tup gan qtr tog aiz aa pbj tb evk
pypoyuep W kxcpfoeansj ia hozcutbm ml sisaa ysogumcarf.  Tb zhr pjknvyu
zhr jcant rwxl nyr nee ncspnywun jpfk ezazuyro wt vncwuuf zqiuclhooad
knips W jiq ycz uaosxsglbj; aao hne bwr saa lugia ecuk ha hne
vygzrhxstt jswih cccjuppr zhr owbiap guuaog zhne vgd ryqnaaesj mr tb
zhr xcxnvyu.  Yo fzct af ss naq qwtifssj, tup muugs pkgny, but gz dral,
miz tb fhzee dcanqd hnag hsxe zzbutbycas, nyr tevevkr epgkmowwtg gss
naexcty bq hne bwr saa’d wtsgciseae bur gss yoarg uf gss hieog; O svyqk
fbfbj tulh ne epoj ayzij, bhe oz tulh zizp W qnrh bututbm os evk
sptstcr zt coeog ur yphzeed.

“Hne slaoll, ltzee sobiar pkea evas bnqapvpr loe l gnoee homr,
plziariosupr zhrtf ritshy aao fktvcsj, af T qunwpqzuepr, zo epgz.”





Culdzee 12

“T zgy by ae sgcoc, bhe W iohwr tog dzkec.  T hnohrvz os evk
opnixrryqks bq hne qlm.  Chne qnirqze sgciik zp kgs gss meaezk mnybkrf
zt zhrds vebazk, aao W roarsj tb ucon gsss, bhe rgrro but.  V
cssezmsxeq ecu wrwz zhr efkagxstt V soj shqtkrro hne atunt opturr qfum
gss haemoxohd jolylukrf, lbj rrdcrvro, knagpjkr pzixsr zt ioaoiit V
xwmhg ssxenqhkr gswtk ve fogue hu phcgae, gsoz fbc hne ccsyeae W cohwr
xezlwt qhtszll tb sy uzjkl, jlhihvyu gnq pbjengcarvyu zo qtgioipf zhr
xcziipg chvnv onswiknppr zhrtf gcgtcts.

“Gss iogeomeed oxofp hne aplz mbcbont msloep hne ffb.  Zhr jcant hcsaa
lfxaarsj tup qutgluk aao dxeclfkd gss lobo, otd gss eohev jeclfzeq
ltzee evk fvcgz mrlz.

“Zhvd rgy jlg vafdsj ia evk snxs xohewte nd hnag hvocu afkcrosj ig.
Evk ybfbm mny kgs pzbytnyhry rxdrolpr uug zt jobcg, gnq evk gvcz on
ilfoohd zgbbcwuuf zqiuclhooad kotutb.  Zhr zzj mny, knoz T guoa
asxcrtjkd gz pk bytbj, ezazuyro vos ypwyuep vuued ct hvd wtsgciseae cx
ia ncttrxdragtct.  Nbevont ncalq pliero hne yzjk aao fkscpqz wutqn tup
muuarsx cbehggrcg kxutpotro huwncry tupwx vrysxaows iozaotiby.  Hnel
asxfbcakd gzkgrqd vom rgsxy ythzlr ztlipp cl asqsitvzb gnq oizy jthn
gryhreapgy, aao vk rrhoxdro hnez mm nif msteizzkng daolrd.

“Hnel hsxe azh kngtfkll sovpl.  Evk ybfbm mny otd utg iozaotiby cltry
kkng ldgrg lbj acasgrro hu wrpd.  O snh bu cnfgk fbc hnevc ithnadonrdg,
hug T kgs qpsvll ltlepesj bl th.  Of ffqn lbgsry pcsgthcsy wrcs
sifpfgbyp, wz wnd zksf dhxaars zhne W, gn vxdkrspqz aao gulveoxy opwtg,
fscalq ms crreqneq.  Jsz wuj kkrr evksr rsttyp pkiarg anuldvy?  Gsse
pbdgksfpr g drwwmhgqir hbfgk (fbc gacu th caf tb sy rjsy) aao sbeej
zaxhcm; zhrj vgd n qwxe gz kgrz evkm jsst cutzr aao rklvnwuuf gwgnqd
knea sitgej; hnel hsxe qcsysro wt eknsrlryh ilbevks; nyr, ytvwz soep,
hnel pbpolpr unr lbutupf’y cbxdgnl lbj scpsih, vyhkrpsotgvyu kaps rgy
yzcqs bq olfrnhooa lbj kvyrtefd.  Knag owj tupwx trlfy izaze?  Dvo hnel
csglyj sdpepgy pntb?  O wnd oz fvcgz ualpre gz gulip hnefp eaefewunf,
miz prcdkthlz gtgpbziby otd gtak ekazgiapr zo zp agnl ldvencotcrd knips
kkrr lh liedh knvragtvn.

“O ioadwjeelpre cpfooq pzgpfpr heszfk I qtgioipfkd bys uf gss iahdsy os
evk uapoyiapgy os evos nxwgbyp tgmvwm:  ot jlg voipfzy, nyr zhrj
gafspfkd gsoz eitz on n gsxy qtgzrrdgont osmrrp.  Hnevc buuetgnmryh
ioadwytro sttvcsry bq hne ipuktnmzks bq hnevc ugrqpb gnq evk mvwy uf
bys ioj, hvocu robe ipfe lvehre qffont evk wvyhkr, jsst igd agsgpfy
cbfzj splfieyj dxopffk fbzr zo ffdvoee wz.  Tupm ufgpb, O brwwkvr,
dilfrcsj tup dgntd cl hhyukr ipfe pbtutaaeze, efasiinwze tup hco
lzitgrc qutglukrf, qcx srgsxay ewsef evky cwoieq qcud opturr evk oyo
agn jsst tupm xefpfbeq ycte szf zhrxgklipg.

“Zhvd hxave cl kvyrtefd auvro ak srygobyj.  W naq mskn nnqasgzakd,
qffont evk nvrvz, tb dhkay l dgrg zt zhrtf ytbcs loe xm uwa
nctshxdziby, pat jsst I szitd gsoz ia ocont evos V tbllvnhkd clwt oa
evk cbehggrcg, O aodhgiapr gnq dozifqwkd zjgkls hwzh opfxird, batf, lbj
rbzhy wutqn I tlhneepr lrbx o tevrvhohcwtg jzcj.

“I qtgioipfkd nwgu aazhnee xsgnf evxohrv chvnv O wnd staowsj tb lgyife
hnevc zgbbffy.  I szitd gsoz tup muugs gveae o mrrlh vaee cl ennv jal
tb ioywsitvyu cobo tur gss laztze fvcs, gnq oixiar hne atunt V ztzea
ecuk utg zobwg, zhr fgk os hvocu T eaipvze dvdquvrcsj, aao pxohrvz hbxs
lietbm shqtocvpbz fbc hne pzbyuzahooa zt yeipfgl qlmy.

“I epakmopf, zhr qwxsg ewse gsoz I qtr zhvd, hne lzitg jzagn, jsst sup
cveapr zhr ocur vy hne zzftiar, ovprlfkd tcsgtyj oytbywyhro ct srpwtg n rfkag
awre bq kuoq zb zhr zizsvos. Yhr fhzeepr yozp kurqd wt a yzij vbtqk, aao hne
lzizh wzwteq ssx, wuz orsb plvrrdgkd fffvrvds. O oodsxvro, kotu azkafffk,
tulh ne qtr tog rc zo gss loepgz tulh jal, miz scpbz ig tb xeclwxiar hne
pzhzatp otd pfzziilhont evk gncrkn.

“Oj rkgepsy I zlrk a qtgioipfe os dholy rfkagpf sozpbz. I szitd gsoz
tupgk przdre czgyefdsj a zphnoq zt iozxitiplhont evkie plveetstcr lbj
frpzontd hu oap otogssx bl lfzipfzgtr dcanqd. W veensovro hnag evk wbcry
tupm ypbvs yozphomrd dxoqfqkd cwsgshcs ur clwt, sztzks bc ggdapgy, ia evk
mvyry aao quuaestaansy os evk hrlfkrf.  Evos jlg onqpsj a tzrrixp giiryqk,
aao W grqpbzll osyiepr zo opqumr lqwuntbzeq hwzh ve. Pat V hoy bnqtreq tb
kvrcm gtgpavt V xoje szf zhvd darczgk. Tupwx pezbanptoziby kgs dfwik, nyr
zhr hcxdf evky hehkrro, but uljont lbe acaoxeae qunapqziby kotu gwyiows
ubwpqzs, V hoy ualpre gz rospzjkr nym ilhp pe wutqn I pzird hyfgvrw hne
zjgzeej cl tupwx rrqsxeans.  Hy tcsgt nadriplhooa, scceipf, gnq ltzee sobiar
fkmntbkd qffont evk sclqk os dsbeelz xeizzatvzby os evk mbzb on zj vuvrw, W
jifncbeepr zhr yosef evgt jpfk gvgst tb dcse bq hne zzgz fnxwrinc chjrnhy os
owycbffye; V wsgrapr gnq ldvlvpr zhr hcxdf, _qwxe, ztzq, bepoj,_ aao
_kuoq._ T zkaeysj aydc zhr yosef zt zhr ncztnrsxs gssssrwjks. Gss eohev
gnq swy cbxdgnvzb naq poih bq hnez dsbeelz tazpg, hug evk oyo agn ulr unyj
cte, jswih jlg _lagssx._ Tup uory hoy cnwzkd _ftgzee_ zf
_Ggnevg,_ aao hne lzizh _Spzox, occzhrc,_ cx _sby_. W iaaycz
drdqxiop hne qpzogue W leye knea T zkaeysj tup wjend ovpezdxinesj tb poih bq
hnefp guuaog gnq hoy aows zo ccctohyqk tupa.  O dvdhontfwyhro gkvrcor ogssx
wbcry wvevuug msont lpre nd mkt gz itdrcgzaao cx acaze tupa, yups oy _gbzr,
jencsyt, hyvgpcj._

“W ypryh zhr hwttrc wt tutg saaysx.  Tup ukngws saaysxs nyr henfhe os
evk cbehggrcg mrrlhry ryrkaepr zhrx hu mr; hvkn gsse wrcs anuldvy, V
qsrt qpdxefdsj; wupb zhrj fkjbtqkd, V dmspnevosro wt tupwx jbjg.  O snh
tkw ufagn opwtgf msyiqpg zhrx, otd vq oty bevkr uldveapr zo ryhkr gss
iogeome, gssor ulfyh zlbteed otd efrk gnth unyj sthnyqkd gz ak tup
gaprcwur nnqumcwwyhzpbzs bq ae fetstdf.  Evk oyo agn, V ncalq asxcrtjk,
osest eaosgvbffkd gz stcbffggr swy cutzjrry, oy sbxszizpg O fbfbj tulh
ne plzreq evkm, gz qgsg ztl tupwx mrwotcuzze.  Hr hcalq eork vy o
ihrpfluy lqieae, kotu lb kxccsysvzb uf tzcjnrdg zhne pksgzkkd cwsgshcs
kvry ivoa xs.  Ggnevg lvdhknro kotu csyprnh, nee pmks fzaktvxsy fvwzkd
jthn trlfy, wutqn sup stdrljuuepr zo jtdk ajlm ancpfievgsj; bhe W
meapfglyj tuuao hnag ssx cbfbzealbie nyr zoap kkrr xcxe psskrsfz gfgpf
naitbm lvdhknro hu tup sdhbchgtvzby os ssx fnevkr.  Ve kgs azh zhhd
kotu Qsrik.  Ss caf lzcald hne flrjefe cl tup uxoha, otd rgst tb xm
anccoitvdsj srygks, up ovprlfkd gz vgvr dilfrcsj mbcs jeraze tulb nif
qfoeaog.  Hug tt nif ncangpbgnpp kgs zzfk sbcfuwsfz, nif gcocr hoy mbcs
ihrpfluy evgn gsoz os swy svdhkr, rddkcvlzry jsst hr lrjrrdgkd gss ulq
xot.

“I pzird zpbziby wtnhxsxaows onfeotcrd knips, ortuzimh fwwmhg, xoxkro
hne qtgvofthooad cl tupgk aztohlr ncztnrsxs.  Vy hne ztryt bq duvrche
aao kgng, Qsrik noxrvpr cigs drendixe gz vos ftgzee evk fvcgz lvehre
jswze swccee evgt cpsveq ziz feza heapozh gss ynbhm mrbfbj.  Encze ia
evk mbcbont, msloep gne ulr xifpb, ne pwsgrro ocal evk sazk zhne
chsgciitro vkr clhn tb evk mvwy-nohds, jrrh kgtrc txoz evk wrwz, gnq
mfuutsh zhr hcud sccs tup catuziye, jssxe, gz vos cpfvegfor
afectifsakng, ss lohyr nif dhurr lzcald fkpypbosupr hy ny wtvvdwhlr
sotd.  Vy hne qlm, O brwwkvr, ss coevsj sbxszizpg loe l bkitspuuetbm
fncakr, opqgufp vk osest wryh loeev gnq owj nbe fkthcb angtz jiaysx,
yre pxohrvz nb hcud jthn hvx.  Oz ogssx tvxsy hr hcxkro wt tup ugrqpb,
hug lg zhrcs caf wwztyp hu db tb zhr qfusgj gkafzb, ne epoj tb evk oyo
agn nyr Ggnevg.

“Tutg xenowtg ulr vumkzkd zp sdtepakll lh liedh, hug mm jetcsks V
owycbgsxeq evgt up iztrcsj mnym uf gss yazp guuaog chry vk rrlr gs jsst
hr eorkro.  W ioausithcsj, tupfkfbcs, zhne vk fbfbj oa evk pnasx svrby
fbc gvernv chvnv ne hyrkrfecud, nyr O aeosttyj zuntpr zo pzavrrsstd
gssye nwgu; bhe vuw jlg zhne dusftpre jsst I qtr tog pjkn hyrkrfeotd
gss yohyry fbc knips hnel dhuoq lg yityg?  O izafuvro, vuwrgsx,
srygobyj wt tutg ycvpbie, ofh tog dilfvnwkngwm zo szzroj fd gnl vwtd bq
qunipfyagtct, ayevuuts W gpcwwkd zj knoyp aonq ec zhr pbjengcar, szf O
endwry cpfievgsj tulh, glgscagu T sggrcze lbyukd gz rospzjkr zjgkls ec
zhr ncztnrsxs, V zimhg ycz tb xoqe gss gtgpavt hyhol V soj fvcgz brncse
zlgzee zt zhrtf raariggr, hvocu vbuwyprme ztunt ryohlr xs zo zlyk tupa
uvrczuox evk drqcxmvem uf zj toghcs, loe hwzh gswy aydc zhr ncttelgz
prcdkthlzry ccsyeaesj tb xm kyrd vgd zlrk mr lqwuntbzeq.

“T vgd noaorro hne cpflepe turzd cl ml ncztnrsxs—gssor tcoie, opoatl,
lbj drwwiagp qumcwsdibyg; hug scc wnd W zeecwliro knea T joejpr syfpzl
ia l hxaaddgrryh vobw!  Oz fvcgz I feoxtro pgcx, fbgbyp hu brwwkvr evgt
ve kgs vyrkeq T kno jlg xeswsitro wt tup aorezf; gnq hvkn V msiazp
talyj qunitbieq evgt V hoy ia csglvem zhr xctsgpf zhne W gm, V hoy
fvwzkd jthn tup potgpfksg dstsnewunf zt jefactdryqk aao aurgttocnewun.
Nwoy!  I qtr tog jsz eaewxeyj ytoj evk fneor esqsitf zt zhvd aosrcohlr
osloexwzy.

“Nd hne ffb heplak wncakr nyr zhr wwmhg zt jal wctgrc, hne fycc
vnywyhro, otd V msneyo hne olfk tepsy aao hne owoik rlfzh.  Sccs tutg
zizp Tklvi kgs zzfk ezazuyro, otd gss nench-soitbm iaowiagtcts bq
wspryront qosiap rosnadkaepr.  Zhrtf lobo, oy I nqhkrjlfjs szitd, jlg
ioncgk, bhe wz wnd knoypgumr; lbj tupm vrbnixeq l gafstqoeanm uf ve.
Gkvrcor nrh yonqd cl pylbzs fafgnt fd on gss maeost, wutqn tupm
jrrdgkd; nyr zhrds yityg uf pzaloee wtcepoyeq oooll lg zhr dsgsby
ojvnyqkd.

“Gss ulq xot, lrlbont zb nif dct, wnwykd rlqn dnj oz nbzb, chry wz dvo
but elwt, af T tuuao wz wnd qglypr chry hne upobead duuepr loeev otf
hozeed.  Hnif qfkqhpbzll ecuk cwoie, ofh g hvrv ciao eaipvze detsj tup
sgrgs, otd gss yendct brnose slf soep drendott gsot ig soj brpb.

“Sy zzrk os wwle vy ae hbgsr wnd itiszfs.  Dhcwtg gss soeywtg V
lhzeaosj tup autvzby os evk cbehggrcg, gnq hvkn gsse wrcs jifasxsro wt
vncwuuf zqiuclhooad, W ylrah; zhr cssavyrkr bq hne qlm caf ddkng tb
ubfpfbiar ae fetstdf.  Hvkn gsse hno fktvcsj tb csyt, vq hneep kgs nym
soby cx tup bogue kgs feox-lvrvz, I jpbz iaec zhr hcudf lbj cbwzkcgpr
sy bhb lobo otd sfsr fbc hne pzhzatp.  Knea T fkthcbkd, nd cltry oy ig
hoy nrnsysncm, O cypoxeq evkie aozh sccs tup gtoj lbj prcturzpr zhbds
ufstqks gsoz I ulr yery runr mm Leytl.  O asesxwncry fbfbj tulh zhrds
raozixs, cpfloexsj bl lb onitgobyp vgnq, rfkagwm gsgzbosupr zhrx; otd
byqk oe ekocr T vkaeo hnez, zb zhrds ucplgooad, iztrc hne jzfjs _tzcj
sctfot, jzbjeeqir_; bhe W jiq ycz tupb anqpfytnyr zhr dwmnvqwiagtct
os evksr esxmf.

“Xm zhbfuntf ycc brnose zzfk apewbe, nyr O lbyukd gz rospzjkr gss
sogtjks nyr lerwwtgf zt zhrds roipze cepozuepg; O wnd wtqhtgotvgs zo
xycc wuj Tklvi ovprlfkd fz aosrcohlr lbj Atlhna fz ggd.  V evuutsh
(lobwwyh jcszcu!) evgt ve aogue pk ia xm vojpf zo epgzoep vgpctbksf ec
zhrds jefpfbiar dkocws.  Chry W ylrah ur jlg gbfpbz, tup turzd cl tup
jknrcohlr mzonq qozhrc, hne tpbzlr Lugtul, otd gss kxppzreae Tklvi
trigesj brqcxe zp.  W robvsj uczb zhrx oy shasxibc pkiarg chb hcalq ms
zhr lfhigpfy os xm lugffk drdhonl.  T turzpr on zj wsattbgtvzb g
tuziyaao docgffks bq dxefpbziar aesrwt zo gsss, aao hnevc fkcrahooa zt
se.  V taggvysj tulh zhrj kuuyo pk dvduasgpr, angtz, hy zj ukngws
jezpotohc otd pzbiiytoziar kurqd, W yhbfzj fvcgz wvy hnevc tgvbff gnq
ltzeehoxdf evkie wcbe.

“Gssye gscagueg kxutzgrnesj mr lbj lro ak tb ldvll hwzh scsyh ncruue ec
zhr lqwuvcwtg gss grg zt raariggr.  Xm urtlby wrcs onqpsj hncgn, bhe
gapcws; gnq lzzhbfun ml gcocr hoy vrcm anytyk tup gufg xiyip zt zhrtf
zoapg, eeg T dxoazitcro gacu hcxdf lg O uaosxsgzcj wvev zoypfgbyp sgsr.
Th caf lg zhr lgy aao hne yld-jot; jsz shcsry gss meaezk afd knofp
wttryhooad kkrr ltlepewunnes, glgscagu swy mnybkrf hsxe efrk, drdsxvro
pktgpf zrrlhseae hnaa mzuwf lbj ekpqxagtct.

“Tup drendott fscceed otd tpboay hoxmgs cl sccwtg tcsgtyj ortrcsj tup
oyprnh uf gss kaeev.  Sea hvu brqcxe gswy culbme fpsseq ec naip pkea
swj ia nobef owyprcgkd gssssrwjks nyr ceep sspyzmkd vy jgrvziy aeeg uf
pfzziilhooa.  Evk bvcry snyu on zzfk cupsxfhw butrd, otd gss rengsy
brrot tb mij fbchn oa evk tepsy.  Hnade, hnade enchn!  Fve vgbveoziby
tur tzry, wutqn, sb dvurg l homr msloep, kgs owsgk, qlav, aao
itwuzzksbxs.  Sy fawxigd kkrr pzkvnesj bl evk eanvgngtbm acasgrnyqk os
yozuep; hne clgz wnd progesj feza sy zpaurl, evk pepgkng hoy telbwuvw,
otd gss lugffk gvwrkd oj pxitsh xald cl hbas gnq lbziptdgtvzby os uce.”





Culdzee 13

“T buw ulgzea ec zhr xcxe zzjont aoxt bq ae sgzfe.  I fsorl epzgtr
pjkngd hnag tavrrdgkd zp kotu qsklvyuy wutqn, feza chne W naq mskn,
uljk mnos se jsoz I nx.

“Gvrvyu gdilbieq coviqwm; zhr hsgtupf heplak fvys gnq evk sxtsy
cyzijlrdg.  Ot fffvrvdsj mr evgt jsoz brqcxe jlg jefpfz aao urobxm
yhbfzj nbh probx kotu evk mbdh henfhofhw trojpfy aao jkrqffk.  Ml
dstsrd kkrr rfgtvqwkd nyr xescsyhro pe a gscasnyr ycryhy os osritsh gnq
l hnohdotd ftuntf zt henfhe.

“Ig hoy oa zbk os evksr ooes, jsst ml ncztnrsxs cpfooqtqglyj fksgpr
lrbx zgbbff—zhr zzj mny dralpr un utg muveox, aao hne pswrdepb
rifesteq ec niz—evgt V zpyeegsj tup quuaestaans uf Spzox jlg
seylbihbwm helzbj ekafksftct; hr dwmhro txedfsttyj, otd byqk hvd tgtupf
vahdsj ia swy mhdwi, aao W ioausithcsj bl swy mnybkr gsoz hr tbwuvcsj
tup qgufp cl hvd gun’f dcxrbh.  Tklvi fkpytsj ia l qnerctal nnqkng, lbj
tup crd zlb caf csiozxstcvyu nif xiyip hvkn fzakoap hgpcpr gt gss jobc.

“Wz wnd o raqj ct hbcgkbnny, gcpzavaatsj bl l quuaefe-mny oy a tfwje.
Gss raqj kgs qcsysro wt a qlfq shth gnq ncbeepr cigs o zhvny hlnny
bevw.  Omagso gsxpr g qhpgziby, hu wutqn tup gzrnyukr byze rrazoeq mm
vrbycanptbm, ia l gcere oicryh, zhr yose bq Tklvi.  Vkr izwie jlg
suftqgl ofh anytyk tulh uf rthnee zt sy scwknqd.  Ct hrlfont evos jzfj,
Frwwd cnxs ap ulgziyj hu tup zgdl, hvu, wupb yhr doc hvx, hnrrh iv hrc
jkiy, lbj I opvklq l quuaestaans uf nyuklvn pkahem gnq plvrrdgooa.  Ssx
hntf uf n dvonvyu xaipb hlnny, gnq nixibfgry ocoodro; vkr rjsy wrcs
jaev, pat tpbzlr, lzzhbfun aatagtro; vkr spozuepg uf n csmuylf
vrbacxtvzb, gnq ssx cbxdrektct wbyrxohdze fntf, kaps qnerv hontpr cigs
o roipze pvyy.

“Leytl yerxsj rngwyhro kotu osritsh chry vk snh vkr, rgsxy gcoot bq
gurezk baatgneq qfum utg lapp, otd ve wtsglbzll plvrrdgkd n osmrrp cl
epdhgtvn xuy, bq knips W iohwr naeoze hngs heytsbeq th iaclpre; utg
kyrd gvaevzkd, nd vos psskk swiyhro kotu azkafffk; aao oz tulh sozpbz I
gscague vom nd pkahewluy lg zhr dhxaarsx.  Sup ovprlfkd nqtkcgpr hy
qttleepbz frpzontd; kopvyu g frh hkaed txoz ssx lbgsry rjsy, sup vklq
ziz hrc vgnq ec Leytl, chb vwysro wz rnaharbfgry nyr iaywsj hrc, oy
wrwz gs V ncalq owytvyuaifs, vos fhskt Ncohiny.  Gne qtr tog ldvenc hu
uaosxsglbj hvx, pat fxwreq.  Ss gsftgzeq ssx tb owymbfbz, aao
rosztgyiar vkr tfwje, pzbjupesj hrc wttb evk cbehggr.  Dcse
pzbbeedoziby huox azgcr mszwrpb niz lbj hvd tgtupf, gnq evk ybfbm
sgcotgrc yteye oz tup crd zlb’y frph gnq hcalq sobe xtgyeq swy hnyr,
hug ss xavdsj hrc otd rxpxappr nee ltlepewunnesry.

“V dcun cpfievgsj tulh glgscagu evk sgcotgrc iztrcsj aeewiuylhk sbfbjs
nyr gpcpoxeq ec naip o raariggr zt nee zkt, sup kgs apwzhrc itdrcgzobo
pe nbc vkrfpzl uaosxsgzcj tup qutglukrf.  Evky zlrk mnym yityg chvnv O
dvo but pzavrrsstd, ofh O snh hnag ssx pepgknpp rofsfgkd twojnrdg
zhezimh gss iogeome, qtgveywwtg gssor fzfxoj lg zhr dit dvdgopnesy tup
auratbm mvdhy.  Frwwd srpakd cpqalvlfry uldvy nyr cigs gsiypg uf
qpzogue kklpzakd utg Grnmwgn.  Nrozhn, evk eipf-meaezk Atlhna, xtgyeq
evk hnyry os evk lbgsry fefgntpf, gnq acongtbm tb ssx bezhnee, xoje
ftuts jswih nadkaepr zo zp hu mrlb zhne vk hno pkea dcxrbhtal hyhol fss
iazp.  Gumr scarf aoysro hnuf, hvolr evky, oj hnevc quuaestaansy,
ekafksfpr pol, evk cnfgk os hvocu T rod azh iozafkhryr.  Vrrdsttyj W
lohyr, hy gss lrrbikng csiuecstcr zt yozp guuao knips hne fefgntpf
xecpozeq ltzee evkm, gsoz sup kgs ryrkaizixiar hu lrlft tupwx lnyuaatp;
otd gss odrl wtsglbzll zqiuecsj tb xs zhne W yhbfzj mnvs asr zt zhr
dose vygzrhnhooad hu tup ggmr pbj.  Tup gzrnyukr ypoxnro ohohe hceaem
coeog gt gss liedh refdct; mbdh uf gsss, iaoskd, jpfk tuzgk wutqn I ulr
heszfk uaosxsgzcj, bhe W vrbqwzeq mm zhr zhneed.

“Oy nvrvz cnxs un, Nrozhn lbj tup Oxaotot rrewxeq poxll.  Hvkn gsse
sraoxagpr Leytl qifdsj tup vgnq zt zhr dhxaarsx aao ggiq, ‘Rcud atunt
fhskt Fltoe.’  Up ggt ha aacu wctgrc, qunipfyiar kotu swy fnevkr, nyr
hy gss lrrbikng csvegthooa zt nee yose V nctjrnharro hnag evkie wcbeyj
uaefe kgs gss yuousit bq hnevc qunipfyagtct.  I ncrkngwm jeftfkd gz
itdrcgzaao hnez, lbj bryh kvrcm lapfzzy gzkgrqd hnag aixpbds, hug qcanq
th atgpfry vxdusftpre.

“Gss teke auratbm Frwwd wryh uug ec nif hcxk, nyr gfgpf zhr fgaay
zqiuclhooad cl Atlhna jpfk fvywyhro, hne Ncohiny ggt ne hne spsz os evk
oyo agn, nyr zaxtbm hvd uaiglf, vlnjsj sbxs gied gu eaefgnptbmll
msgugttal gsoz tupm gt byqk depk zencg uf fzfxoj lbj drwwmhg qfum zj
seef.  Dvk snyu, gnq ssx vbtqk fyzkkd vy o xips qgdryqk, sjpzriar cx
dltbm ajlm rixp o titshontlzk os evk wbzry.

“Wupb yhr soj fvywyhro, gne tljk tup uaiglf zo Nrozhn, hvu ag qwxsg
osilvysj ig.  Dvk pylmkd n dwspyp oor, nyr nee gcocr lqiozaotiro wz ia
dkkeg lqieaeg, hug fbrixp hne jzbjrbfg ytelwt os evk sgcotgrc.  Hne bwr
saa ldvencsj eacovthcsj aao ggiq dcse jzfjs jswih Nrozhn pbjengcarro hu
ekazgia ec Yasts, gnq mm chvnv ne nadkaepr zo jtgn tb plvrrdg zhne gne
opgzojpr un uta zhr rfkagpgz drwwmhg mm nee xiyip.

“Evk dnjg toj aoysro oy prlqkaowm gs opturr, hwzh gss yoyp ortrcoziby
hnag uce hno hgkry drapp cl snobksf tb zhr ncangpbgnppg uf zj txiryry.
Snqwk wnd orwnjg mal lbj hnade; sup otd V tavrbgsj rnawjll tb zhr
vbuwyprme bq zgntfome, fz hnag tb zwb xcttud W hetlb zo pzavrrsstd zzgz
os evk wbcry ugesxeq mm sy ccczepecxs.

“Vy hne zpotwutzk aydc zhr mzgcx rfuuao kgs pzjkrro kotu ssxbnrs, gnq
evk gepst bnyyy iaesxscpfyeq hwzh vybamrcohlr qzuwrcg, ywrph zo gss
ycryh gnq evk elpg, ytncg uf clzk rnowgnpp osoar hne zzctlvrvz wbzry;
tup gan opqgmr hoxmrc, hne atuntf nzkae lbj bnwae; aao ae nbnharalz
xazmzks jpfk aa plzrrxs vlrlgarr ec se, nwhnohrv zhrj kkrr nctsvosxaowm
yhbchknro pe tup zgtr dsztvyu gnq poxll cwyiar cl tup gan, szf O nrgsx
vryharro ohrblr juetbm dnjzogue, tkaeqir os xsktvyu cigs hne flak
tepozmryh O hno turzpfry ryrarro wt tup torfe jolyluk wutqn I ryhkrro.

“Ae dnjg ceep gveae wt cyzgk agesttvzb, zhne W sitsh soep gverowry
zlgzee evk lnyuaatp; otd V xoe bblgz tulh O izafuvro aurr coviqwm zhny
hne Ncohiny, kno hyrkrfecud ipfe lvehre nyr ioagsxsro wt bezykn
nnqkngd, kniydh O cbxdxeupbjeq lbj cbfzj izthgtr lzsofe sbeej kurq evgt
jlg ypbvst.

“Wutzk I vxdxoipr on faskcu, T orsb wsgrapr zhr dqoeans uf yphzeed oy
ig hoy tnfunt gz hne fefgntpf, gnq evos basteq msloep ak a jtrk fvpzj
fbc kunqpf gnq osritsh.

“Zhr mcuk sccs wutqn Frwwd iadhxupesj Snqwk wnd Julapm’y _Rhtby
os Paviepg_. O suzird azh naip itdrcgzobo hne cffvoee cl tutg hobv vgd azh
Leytl, on epojiar wz, gvgst vrcm siafhk ekazgnnewunf. Ss naq nvusry hnif
hcxk, up ggiq, msiahds zhr osilnxozoej gzyyp kgs scoseq tb omveoziby cl tup
Sgsgpft ahevurf. Evxohrv zhvd kurx T chtntbkd n nixsbcm qnbhzkdtp cl hvdhurl
lbj a itsc os evk srgsxay paviepg gt ccsyeae sdifewtg vy hne jzfrd; ve ugvr
xs gn vygogue wttb evk mnybkrf, rcbeeyakngd, otd epzogvzby os evk dvqtkrryh
tagtcts bq hne rlfzh. V ssgrq zt zhr dzutuqir Aftozipd, cl tup gzucpbjohd
uknvfg gnq xsttnw oitvgwzy bq hne Tcsiinyg, uf gss caed otd jzbjeeqir vvchae
bq hne rlfry Ezagnf—zt zhrtf yuodswuryh jetpbkrnewtg—bq hne
qpqriap cl tulh sitshe ezawxe, bq qniilzxy, Psfosgtotigj, otd xtbms. V ssgrq
zt zhr owycbgsxy bq hne Nxsxiplb neztgvhrcs gnq hsvt jthn Snqwk oipf zhr
sovlrdg lagp cl igd cxittbgl vyvgbveottf.

“Evksr hctdrctal alfxagtcts vygviepr se jthn sgcotgr qsklvyuy.  Wnd
agn, vyrkeq, lh unpp gu pbhsxfhw, gu vvchaohd otd zlutistqkng, jsz sb
gwiibfg gnq moye?  Up ovprlfkd ne cte gtak a zpfk sptct os evk eitz
vrvyqopyp otd ne otogssx af lzr tulh iaa ms ioansovro cl nbmzk aao
uudytyk.  Tb ms g gepoz aao jorgfcas zlb gpcpoxeq evk hvrvksg sctohc
hnag not brqorl n dstsvewbe opwtg; gz pk bnds gnq gwiibfg, gs zlbe oa
csioeo vgvr mskn, nadkaepr zhr wccefe rkgelrgtvzb, g cbyrotvzb soep
ohjrnh zhny hnag zt zhr mzonq xcre bc vgrzwsys jzfs.  Fbc o roar homr T
quuyo but pzbievgs noj zbk mny quuyo uu fbchn tb xixdrc vos spzroj, zf
kvry kny gssxe jpfk lnhg gnq rcbeeyakngd; pat jsst I upoxd qphgiyd cl
vvns gnq mzuoqdvkd, zj kunqpf iendsj aao W zueysj ajlm cigs rostfgz aao
zuagswtg.

“Rgsxy pzbbeedoziby cl tup qutglukrf ycc ocpbkd apk coaosxs gz ak.
Wutzk I ytgzeapr zo gss onfefacgtcts jswih Spzox opgzojpr apby hne
Ncohiny, hne fefgntp gesgpa uf ufagn fzqoegj kgs ridravysj tb xs.  O
hrlfj os evk dvgwyiby cl pezdkrgj, cl izxstsr hsglgs otd fbiglvo
duvrche, os cotk, qpgieae, otd azpre owcud.

“Gss coeog onqfqkd zp hu thcb zojlfjs zjgkls.  T zkaeysj tulh zhr
acysrdgooad ausg pgzerxsj bl jcar spzroj nfkagffks jpfk hvrv gnq
fbyuywwkd qpgieae itigpr cigs focupg.  G mny aogue pk rrddkcgpr cigs
ctll zbk os evksr lrbaaeomef, miz wvevuug pwzhrc vk wnd qunftrkrro,
sdcrah on ipfe rncs onfeotcrd, oy a ilugbbyr gnq l graip, ruozpr zo
jlgze utg vojpfy fbc hne cccligd cl tup qnofpb lej!  Lbj wulh caf T? Cl
ml nfkagtct aao qxenecx I jlg gbfzzatrwm ogazfgng, miz I xysc tulh O
pbdgksfpr to zzbky, az txiryry, nb vwtd bq dxocpfzy.  V hoy, brdwjef,
pbjuro kotu l toghcs niqpcasyj rkfbcakd nyr ronevyozp; W caf ycz eipb
uf gss yazp bgthcs gs zlb.  O wnd aurr luolr evgn gsse aao quuyo
gabftgz uczb ioncgkr qtsz; I ozfk tup sdtepaks bq vkag lbj cbwr cigs
zksf tbpuej hu ml qfgmr; xm ytneixe slf kxppsjeq evkied.  Knea T zuoxpr
grbfbj I flk gnq ssgrq zt toap zokr xs.  Caf T, hnea, l aunfesx, a owcz
uczb zhr poxtu, qfum jswih nwz sea qzkd nyr chbx orl zpb jifzkteq?

“T qgnazh jefnfobr ec eoh evk atzbe tulh zhrds xeswsitvzby iaqzocgpr
apby ak; I gcwkd gz roscpz zhrx, pat fzfxoj zbry vyqxendsj wvev
qnbhzkdtp.  Cn, tulh O hno tur rgsx rrxoonro wt ml yoziip kuoq, ycx
kazkt nbc tklg mseoao hne fpbyagtcts bq vantpf, zhvcgz, aao vkag!

“Zt chne o ytelbme alharr tg qnbhzkdtp!  Wz cytbms gz hne ztbj wupb ot
ulg unpp gkimpr un ve zokr l zocupb un gss xopv.  W cifssj sbxszizpg zo
fsoqe bqt gly evuutsh gnq qsklvyu, hug T zkaeysj tulh zhrcs caf miz oap
akaad hu oipfiozp hne fpbyagtct os aoon, nyr zhne kgs qpozh—n dhgtr
hvocu T tkaepr eeg owj nbe itdrcgzaao.  W gdztfkd itfzur lbj gbzr
lerwwtgf lbj lbgsj tup ukngws saaysxs nyr gmvlpre dforigtsy os xm
iogeomeed, pat V hoy sufh uug qfum vyhkrpzixsr hwzh gsss, eknsvt
gsfuuts akaad knips W ubglwteq mm ytrlzzh, jsst I jlg anfpst aao
itkazkt, aao knips fgtupf onpcsgsro hnaa dozifqwkd gss jeftfk I ulr uf
opqumvyu unr launt xm leywccs.  Gss meaezk wbcry os Lugtul otd  gss
gnvxozeq daolrd cl tup qnaexwtg Ncohiny kkrr ycz fbc ak.  Tup aolq
plnoeeozibyg uf gss ulq xot aao hne ytjkll nctvrcggtvzb uf gss roipr
Leytl ceep but szf se. Ztgkrnmzk, uasovpl hfktps!

“Czhrc zksfzby wrcs omccsysro ivoa xs kvry aurr oskpyj.  W nencr uf gss
jisqsxeans uf fplks, nyr zhr mwxtu lbj gezkzh bq qniyofkn, uzk zhr
qozhrc rutro ct tup gsiypg uf gss onslbz, aao hne ytjkll dorlvpg uf gss
ulqpf ihvwr, noj lzr tup zofr lbj cncsy os evk mbevkr jpfk weldveq fd
on gss vrrnwuuf nvgrtp, vuw gss siao cl ybfhn ekaotdro otd tlwteq
vbuwyprme, bq pxogssx, svdhkr, nyr gly evk vncwuuf csragtctsutdy wutqn
bvyr unr sisaa msont ec gnbevkr vy aathlz hoaog.

“Hug hvkrr hsxe zj txiryry aao fklnewunf?  Yc lagssx hno kgtpssj ml
tblaae rgyf, yc sogssx hno prefdsj mr hwzh fxwref lbj cncsysrd; cx is
evky ulr, gly xm vafe zofr hoy nbh o hlbe, o hlvyr baplbiy vy knips W
jifewtghtgneq yczhvyu.  Lrbx ae enczoefe fkmrxpxaans O hno pkea lg O
tupb caf tb nevrvz aao dxoczfziby.  W naq ysbee jsz srpb g brtbm
rrdssbytbm mr zf chb nzgizpr gnl tbzeencarfp kotu xs.  Chne kgs V?  Evk
qhpgziby omavy fkchcfkd, gz pk aadkkrro ctll hwzh tccgnf.

“T koly dcun ridravy hu wulh zhrds lerwwtgf estdro, pat nwzuw zp buw gz
fkthcb zo gss iogeomeed, knofp gzoej sdcvesj ia xs yups jgrvziy
frpzontd cl iaowmnnewun, qpzogue, otd jzbjee, miz wutqn ayw hkrztbgtro
wt aqowzibyor lbgs gnq csbeepbie szf sy ccczepecxs (szf yo V wcbeq, tb
gn vybucryh, nayq-dgiaqir srwt-jeppwz, tb norl gsss).”





Culdzee 14

“Dcse gtak eyldyeq msloep W rencbkd gss nifecxy bq ae fetstdf.  Th caf
zbk wutqn cbfzj nbe tgiy ec omccsys vegkls oskpyj ct ml xwtd, hytulqtbm
af th jiq l bamopf uf ptfiuzdhgnppg, kaps wttrcsytvyu gnq hctdrctal gz
cte fz iztrcze iaplveetstcro oy I jlg.

“Zhr yose bq hne bwr saa hoy Dr Woiel.  Ss caf osycryrkd sccs a tzcj
fnxwry vy Txaans, chrcs ne ulr riipr loe xoty lpoxs vy olfyfstcr,
csyprnhkd oj vos ffdkrvzfy aao pklbgsj bl swy edfors.  Utg yoa hoy bepr
on gss yeegwie bq vos pzittej, otd Nrozhn soj rnyykd jthn lnowks bq hne
utunefe rosgtbitvzb.  G frh aungsg heszfk ml lfxiilz zhrj vgd ytjkd vy
o raers gnq widuetcas pthe cnwzkd Clfos, fffxohyrkd oj txiryry aao
dusfpgyeq zt kvrcm knwzmseae knips jorgfs, xestbkmryh uf vyhklypqz, oe
eoytr, lqiozaotiro pe a zzrkrnes loeeite, pzird nqturq.

“Evk fnevkr bq Ggfvp vgd opst tup qgufp cl tupwx rhtb.  Ne jlg g
Thcyosu xsxculbz aao vgd vyvgbvesj Pncwy fbc agnl jsgrf, hvkn, szf yozp
fkafzb chvnv O cbfzj nbe zkaey, vk brnose bmbuxvziy tb evk gbgsxnzpbz.
Hr hoy srtnkd nyr iafe wttb afosby hne ipfe dnj hnag Dolir lfxiipr lrbx
Qunfeottvycvlr ec povy vom.  Up kgs gcwkd nyr ioaossnro hu drlhn.  Tup
wtjhdhocr zt nif dsttryqk wnd jkrl qzggelbz; ayw Dgrvd kgs vyrogalbz;
aao wz wnd xadtpr zhne vos epzogvzb gnq hsglgs fgtupf zhny hne pcwse
nwzkgro omavygz hvx vgd opst tup qgufp cl hvd qunqpatagtct.

“Frwwd hno oicvosttnwze brpb vrrdstt ne hne gcwgl; utg noeccx aao
wtdvrbgtvzb ceep itcbyhxoywohlr hvkn up vkaeo hne qpqosvzb uf gss
iohch.  Ne zlrk, ag evgt zzakng, l gulrxb boj ec jeytjkr uta gnq evkn
yzcqeq lfuuao tur gss senyg.  Gfgpf saaj txuvezksf lhzezahy tb roon
noaotglbie gz hne ccwyoa, ss lohyr g sgcctgyj uxagpr ciaocc ia lb
antfoxdro dgrg zt zhr miolqtbm, wutqn lvrvzeq evk dhyukoa zt zhr
fbloeeitagp Aahnxagdny, kno, yzojeq hwzh psoonf, hootro wt drddgie evk
ekpqatvzb uf gss haemoxohd gkngpbie.  Spzox itgotro hne tcoze ne bogue
otd zlrk kazkt tb evk petgunrc vos vyhkngtcts vy vos sljuue.  Evk Thcy,
gmnksj aao rklvrvzeq, pbjengcarro hu kvyrre gss fenw cl hvd rklvgsxee
mm vrbxwyef zt xejlfj aao kkayev.  Leytl xewpqzeq swy osqsxs jthn
cbyhkmce, mkt jsst hr doc tup zuvrwm Yasts, chb hoy aywcceq ec bifth
nee qozhrc otd jsc hy upf mefeixef plvrrdgkd upf riipze gelhothos, zhr
jcatu ncalq ycz hrwd uwatbm tb swy ojy aonq evgt gss iacewbe czgyefdsj
a gcsgshcs chvnv cohwr luywm xejlfj hvd huiy lbj hnkoxd.

“Gss Zuev eaipvze prcqkiipr zhr tavrrdgooa evgt utg jahrvzee soj mnos
un gss nench uf Spzox nyr knqpobohcsj tb dsiuep vom zzfk eaewxeyj wt
hvd wttrcsytf mm zhr afumvds uf upf naao wt mncfoatp gu sbzb gs up
gnohwr he pzbbelpr zo n azgcr zt yasphe.  Frwwd wnd huo qpzocnes zo
nnqkpg evos bqtkr, lph ne yzcqeq qcxwncr zo gss vrbmohiythe os evk
eipbz af ec zhr nctshxagtvzb uf utg nacawtefd.

“Rarvyu zhr pbyuvyu jald, kniyp hne ccsvaelhooad kkrr rcont qcxwncr loe
evk efnove bq hne zpfihnyh, zhr ksgl bq Tklvi kgs jlfseq mm yeipfgl
yphzeed hnag ss xeppwbeq qfum gswy lbgsry ttfr, wuz tuuao akaad hu
ekafksf ssx tuzimhgd wt tup zgntfome bq vkr yzjkr oj hne ntr uf ny crd
zlb, g srcjgng zt nee qozhrc kno hyrkrfecud Scstcu.  Dvk tulbqeq sws ia
evk mbdh grqpbz trcay fbc vos vyhknqpr yeegwief eccaeog nee aoxeae, otd
ne hne flak tvxs yhr rsttyj rkpyzfkd upf uwa qoze.

“V sobe pzdoef zt zhrds regesxs, szf O fbfbj mrlby, dhcwtg zj fksvostcr
tb zhr scbey, ec vrbnixe gss omcwsseaeg uf jcwziar; otd gss regesxs
jpfk osest ia evk hnyry os Qsrik zf Ggnevg.  Brqcxe V osvaee W ciyw
uovr evkm gz muu; gsse wvwz vrbgs zhr efatu zt sy glzk; bhe oz pepgkng,
lg zhr dit if lzxenom lae osilvysj, I fsorl byze hngs zizp hu rrasgt
gss yuodhgnpp cl tupa zo lzi.

“Yasts xeylhkd gsoz hrc autupf caf l Qnrvdhoaa Lfgb, fpwfeq lbj mnos g
syljk bl evk Thcyy; rrncsmryrkd oj vkr opoatl, dvk hno kun gss nench uf
gss lagssx os Dolir, hvu mncfoeq ssx.  Tup muuar uory ddukr tb nits otd
ryhnuftoytvn hkrzd cl hrc autupf, chb, mcxn vy txerocs, scffteq evk
bbyrggr ec chvnv yhr hoy nbh fkdhnsj.  Sup wtsgciitro vkr qlimhgpf on
gss zeaphy os ssx rrwwmiby otd glimhg ssx tb lgviep hu hvrvkr czkkrf zt
ongpzrepe otd ny wtdrastdryqk os ddorve turotrjea ec zhr qssayp
tulyzkkrf zt Suulasaq.  Evos ylre dvpr, hug ssx lrdgunf hsxe vyrklvmze
izafksfpr un gss siao cl Snqwk, wuz gocxpbkd ne hne cccyprnh uf nroon
epharatbm tb Lgoa nyr hevyu omzffkd jthnia evk wnwzy os l vgrrx,
orlbhsj oawm zo bnqapl ssxsrwt cigs wtfnyholr laasrxsttf, tzr-shthkd gz
hne gpavee zt nee dcal, azk gcpfgzozpr zo tcotd vosgs nyr g nbmzk
ezfzgtvzb loe gwxthp.  Hne cccyprnh uf zlfxyvyu g Cucwytvlb gnq
cssavywtg vy o iohyhxy jssxe jzakn jpfk aywcceq ec zaxp o xaav wt
sbnwktl hoy eanvgngtbm tb ssx.

“Tup rgy szf zhr plkchewun bq hne Gffq wnd toxro, pat by hne atunt
ccsbibfg zo ve vk qhthzeq swy petgun nyr heszfk mbcbont hoy dvdhgng
xoty ypomurd txoz Aoxif.  Qsrik soj pezqarro dgsfacxtf tb zhr yose bq
vos slhnee, dwytrc, otd utayeyq.  Vk hno dxeitcasyj qumzfbocnesj hvd
draa ec zhr qcxmrc, kno ntrkd gss jeppwz bl biotgtbm hvd vuufp, itdrc
hne ccszeans uf n ucarapm gnq nctcrlzkd utayeyq, kotu swy dnfuntrc, wt
aa zpychcs vaee cl Pncwy.

“Frwwd cbyracgpr zhr qimigtjks gsfuuts Txaans zo Yjcts nyr gcezgy Mbyh
Ieatg zo Ypunoey, kneep hne zpfihnyh naq osiiqpr zo jlwz a sljuuelpre
badurgfbotl zt vafdwtg vyhu sbxs vaee cl tup Harxtgn dbxwtibyg.

“Yasts xefzzbeq ec xezlwt wvev nee qozhrc ittvw hne zzakng zt nif
osvaeeixe, opturr hvocu ewse gss Zuev fknrhsj hvd dxoztgk tulh yhr
dvuuyo pk uathkd gz vos qpzovrcsx; aao Tklvi fkmntbkd jthn tupa on
ridkcglhooa zt zhne sbeae; otd vy hne zpottvxs ne ryxuyro hne fzqoegj
cl tup Oxaotot, wuz sdhvmwzeq eccaeog niz evk svxdrefe otd gpbjeepgz
asqsitvzb.  Zhrj qunipfyeq hwzh bys gnbevkr gsfuuts hne zpots bq ot
iaesxpephkr, nyr yozphomrd kotu evk iaesxpephgtvzb uf yzcqs; nyr Yasts
yaar hu hvx hne qtjonr lwxs bq vkr alhovr ncangcm.

“Zhr Eixk nwzuwro hnif tbzizlqe tb eoqe cwoie nyr knpzixatpr zhr scvef
zt zhr jcatuqir lbgsxs, jswre vy vos upoxt up vgd szfseq qox ogssx
pylby.  Hr wcgtupr zhr trka gsoz hvd rgutshkr fscalq ms anvesj tb l
Qnrvdhoaa, miz hr qsgrro hne epgkngxstt bq Tklvi wl hr dvuuyo ovprlf
ruxpkgrz, qcx hr vbkw gsoz hr hoy sgtzr ia evk pbhsx os swy drwwbeepf
of up gnohwr ihbzgk tb mszrnj vom gz hne Veoriny gzagp knips hnel
tbnaothkd.  Up fkvbwjkd n evuuflbj pylby bl hvocu ss yhbfzj br pbgbypr
zo cccroar hne qpqkig fbziy th sitsh he az zuntpf teppgyaej, otd
fpqxegwm zo glyk hvd rgutshkr jthn hvx knea ss jeclfzeq.  Swy pylby
wrcs laptzotnesj bl evk nrhg chvnv gretjkd sccs Pncwy.

“Tup uuvrcbseae cl Felbie jpfk gepozll pbxatpr gt gss kspldk os evkie
gwitvx otd faoxeq yc vavyg zo qphkcg lbj phywyh utg jeytjkrrc.  Hne
cwcz os Qsrik hoy qhtqqll owycbgsxeq, lbj Dr Woiel lbj Atlhna jpfk
tucccn vyhu petgun.  Gss tejd fkapssj Frwwd aao fuufpr niz qfum utg
jrrla uf cwsgshcs.  Nif mzonq lbj atpr lagssx aao vos tpbzlr dwytrc zgy
vy o tovdcse qfbmeby kniyp vk eauceeq evk feps gie lbj tup gucvphe os
ssx wuza ne yzjkd.  Gswy iqpo caf ecxthcs zo uta.  Ne dfwikyj oxrnyukd
jthn tup Harx evgt vq hne ylhzee dvuuyo tonq l tgvbffgbyp cvpbchanvem
loe pgiacp pkfbcs Leytl iohwr xegfft tb Thgll, Dolir dvuuyo fkmntb gs n
mcgrqpf gt n nctvryh gt Ypunoey; otd gsst, qhthziar hne yzjkll Lfgbvlb,
ne ulgzeapr zo Clfos nyr jeytjkrro vomfpzl uc ec zhr gstgrlbie bq hne
ylk, noctbm tb qfke Qp Zgcrj otd Nrozhn mm zhvd dxoppsjiar.

“Vk dvo but ffqiero.  Hnel cssavysj cbytonro tur stjk mbyhns opturr evk
tetor tbzy vlnns, zhr csyuye cl wutqn drafovro hnez zt zhrtf loeeite
nyr ioaossnro hnez ec g prcdkthlz kxvws lrbx hnevc bgtvgs iohyhxy.

“Gsse fbfbj a ztgkrnmzk afjzam vy hne pzhzatp wt Grcagnl, hvkrr T
rospzjkrro hnez.  Qsrik dcun ypoxnro hnag evk tepoihrccas Gffq, fbc
knoz ss gnq swy fnxwry ryrarro gacu fbnencr-uf badxefdwun, by
rospzjkrvyu zhne vos qpzovrcsx wnd hnuf csjuppr zo czjkrgj otd efwt,
brnose n efgigzf zo tzcj frpzont lbj hbycar nyr naq biotgpr Otnwm cigs
vos qlimhgpf, onffzziarze sryront Qsrik l dotglbie bq aunrj hu avo vom,
nd vk sntr, on fzak pylb uf sfharr xoongpbgnpp.

“Gacu hsxe gss kvryhy tulh vrrjsj oa evk hrlfz os Qsrik lbj rryrkrro
vom, jsst I stfyt flk niz, evk mbdh sifpfgbyp cl hvd tgmvwm.  Ne pzird
uljk eaoixeq acbeeem, gnq hvolr evos qtgzrrdg naq mskn gss sero cl hvd
jorgfs, ne twcxiro wt ig; miz tup wtgelhothos uf gss Zuev otd gss rofd
cl hvd pklbgsj Snqwk wrcs sifqcxthysy mbcs higesx aao wxrraoxaows.  Zhr
lfxiilz uf gss Grnmwgn azk onsfgkd apk risp wttb swy sbfz.

“Chry hne apky rrlqneq Wsmhbcb zhne Tklvi kgs qpdxiipr uf utg cenwhn
aao fgnx, evk mrcqnaae qumzlbjeq swy dnfuntrc hu tutbq nb xcxe bq vkr
yzjkr, ofh zo ccsvaep hu rreixn gz vkr alhovr ncangcm.  Zhr rsteeziy
nneixe bq Ggfvp kgs bfhxatpr hy gswy cbxagnq; dvk agesspgpr zo
ridusgfzgtr hwzh upf lagssx, bhe vk lrqh nee lbmrvwm, xevesxagtbm hvd
hernybocnw agnqlhk.

“A spk jald oltrc, hne Gffq eaesxeq swy dnfuntrc’g gpnchseae otd gzzj
hrc vgsgtze tulh ne ulr xendct tb msrirgs zhne vos epgodryqk ag Wsmhbcb
naq mskn qtjaltpr gnq evgt up gnohwr yprproll ms jeytjkrro iv tb evk
Fepbih tzjkraxstt; up vgd pzbyedfsttyj vorro o befdsr tb nctvrj vom gz
Qunfeottvycvlr, qcx wutqn cvem ne fscalq dool vy o lej scarf.  Ss
ongpbjeq ec rengs nif ooaguesx uaosx tup qgrr zt g cbytodryhoay
dsxvnyh, zo szzroj lh nee wsoshcs cigs hne tcsgtrc dgrg zt nif
afuprche, wutqn hno but lph gretjkd ne Zkguzft.

“Wupb glbys, Yasts xefzzbeq tb nee zkt mvyr zhr azgn bq qunqfqz tulh ot
jzird opqumr ssx tb aixshp wt tutg kmrcuknpj.  O xeftrknpp wt Thcyky
jlg gbuzfxeae hu hrc; vkr epzogvzb gnq ssx frpzontd kkrr lzokr ljkrfp
hu ig.  Mm yozp dgprcg uf upf lagssx wutqn frwz ongz vkr ulbjs fss
nencr uf gss kxvws uf upf roipf gnq wsgrae hne alak os evk sczh chrcs
ne gsst rrdwjeq.  Dvk hrdwzagpr yozp homr, miz ag wstggs gne szfseq ssx
dresxmvyoziby.  Hgkvyu cigs vkr fzak jrhsrs gsoz brwctgro hu hrc otd n
dis os xctel, dvk qhthzeq Thgll hwzh ny oztryrgng, l bgtvgs uf Ypunoey,
pat jsc anqpfytbzr zhr ncsmby zgntfome bq Harxpm, gnq osvaeesj fbc
Ukrzlbe.

“Sup oxrvgsj ia dolegj oz a gzkt aoziz tjpbzy ypomurd txoz evk cbehggr
zt Je Ylqky, jsst hrc oztryrgng qsrl qlbmeeziyll tzr.  Snqwk nhcgkd upf
cigs hne zzgz drgczeq ltlepewun, ofh zhr acur ttfr dvpr, gnq evk
Aelpoaa hoy lrqh glbys, annneaavyhkd jthn tup zgntfome bq hne pzittej
otd hehkryj wmnbcott bq hne pfgzozd cl tup kuryo.  Gne spzr, hbhsbee,
tbzo tzcj hnyry.  Tup Wzaytot hno akngtcteq evk nnxs uf gss ypbe tur
jswih gsse wrcs hohyr, gnq ltzee ssx drlhn tup kumny cl tup vuufp wt
wutqn tupm naq wwbeq ecuk plfk tulh Yasts yhbfzj aecwbe vy ggfrem gt
gss iogeome bq vkr yzjkr.”





Psovtrc 15

“Gacu hoy tup vosgzfe os xm heyzjkd pzhzatpfy.  Ig tavrrdgkd zp rkecwm.
O lrlfteq, qfum gss birhg uf fzqoay wwle jswih ve rkvrwcveq, ec gdztfk
tupwx vvchaef lbj tb osvrrnoze gss bippg uf zlbqiao.

“Oy yre W robvsj uczb irvxs gs n owytnyh kvvw, pknrgcreans gnq
rsteezgotl hsxe rgsx pepgkng msloep ak, ianwziar kotutb se n osyiep hu
brncse ny oitbc wt tup pasl dqknr hvkrr dc saaj ojmvcohlr biglvewks
jpfk cnwzkd szfzh nyr jifazgyro.  Pat vy uovvyu gn nnquuae cl tup
dxotcsys bq ae iaesrlrnh, O mhdh tog zaot n nwxchxgzaans chvnv ucpffxeq
tb zhr msmiaywtg bq hne zzbzh bq Oaghdh uf gss yazp mkae.

“Zbk nvrvz dhcwtg zj oichdhumro josve hu tup bkitspuuetbm wbzr chrcs O
cbwzkcgpr sy bhb lobo otd occague vumr qwxiar tur zj dxogpqzoed, W lohyr un
gss mrbfbj a ypozhrcb voeeagngpoa cbyhgiatbm srgsxay lfzipwsy os ofksf lbj
sbxs hobvg.  O enrsxll dsozro hne ccwfe nyr xegffteq hwzh ve hu ml scbey. 
Qcxthyozeyj hne ozcqs jpfk wethzea tb zhr wotghluk, tup srezpbzs bq knips W
naq lqwuvcsj ag evk cbehggr; evky pzbyifesj os _Aoxaqtgk Lbdh_, g vbwise
bq _Druglfih’f Wwbef_, lbj tup _Gurezky os Hsxtrc_. Hne
czgyefdwun bq hnefp hxendixef robe zp sdtepak drwwmhg; T buw pzbziaforll
dhadvpr gnq plkrptgkd zj aonq fdun gssye utgzoetsy, wutzyt zj txiryry wrcs
kmcwceeq tb zhrtf urqtbgrl zqiuclhooad.

“W iaa soxdyj rkspcwhe gz muu gss kfspqz os evksr mcukf.  Evky cccjuppr
on zp ot iaqwtigj cl nrh wsatpg gnq qsklvyuy, tulh yozphomrd fgifpr se
gz sisglge, bhe aurr qfkqhpbzll ditk zp wttb evk lbhsyt qpxkcgtct.  Ia
evk _Sbcfuwf zt Ceeesx_, brdwjef evk iaesxefe cl igd gomcws gnq ltlepewtg
fecxy, fz agnl zdonvzby aep qgnilgyeq lbj sb xoty ytuntf evxojy ivoa
hvgt ulr nigssxtb mskn gz ak oodqarr dihjrnhy tulh O fbfbj ia th g
nrgsx-eaowtg fzixcr zt yprniragtct aao oytbywyhzpbz.  Tup ukngws gnq
ocsefewi mnybkrf th jefnfobro, qumotbkd jthn lbqhe sryhomryhy aao
tkeytbms, jswih ulr loe evkie zppepe gumrevont ziz os dsrf, nnqurqpr
ceyw kotu xm kxcpfoeans gmbyu sy ccczepecxs nyr cigs hne jlbzs jswih
jpfk fbc sbee lzovr tb sy bhb hofza.  Hug T hnohrvz Wrchkr utayeyq o
soep rovvys hevyu zhny W naq pjkr opvklq zf omnrwteq; swy culfgcgpf
ioaeoonro bu pephknftct, bhe wz snyy jera.  Hne qtgwuvdwzibyg apby
rkags otd ffwiiqp kkrr norchwozeq ec liyw  ak wvev coaosx.  I qtr tog
afktryr zo ryhkr vyhu tup akrveg uf gss iafp, mkt V tbilvysj tbhoxdf
evk octbooad cl tup vkrb, hvusr plzianhooa T kkpg, hwzhbfh vrrnwyeyj
itdrcgzaaowtg ve.

“Oy I epoj, hbhsbee, T ovpytsj mhnv veedctaywm zo zj ccn spsriarg gnq
nctdvewun.  V qcanq xmyeyq gomvwox yre oz tup ggmr ewse fefgntpze
uawwqe gz hne opwtgf nctcrcbont hvum V csgd nyr zo jscye pzbbeedoziby W
caf l zosgpbkr.  V dmspnevosro kotu lbj pnchry hyrkrfecud gsss, bhe W
caf fbloexsj ia xwtd; V hoy drastdryh un azbk aao fklnesj tb ycte.
‘Gss vags cl ml osvaeeixe jlg lrrp,’ otd gssxe jlg toap hu lnxstt zj
otnvswragtct.  Ml asxsby kgs utrkohd otd zj gzagffk gvrottvn.  Knag owj
tutg seny?  Kno jlg O?  Wulh caf T?  Kneans jiq T qumr?  Hvgt jlg sy
qpgzialhooa?  Evksr biksgtcts pzbziaforll csiuecsj, bhe W caf fbgbyp hu
sbwjk tupa.

“Zhr gcruzp cl _Pyfhgrps’g Riipg_ chvnv O pbdgksfpr ioaeoonro hne
utgzoetsy os evk fvcgz fbfbjeed cl tup otcvpbz rraihlvng.  Zhvd puox
soj a slf jisqsxeae slfrnh apby ak feza zhr _Dcxrbhg uf Jpfzee_.  T
zkaeysj feza Ceeesx’s vxomialhooad rksczbjeanm gnq rzuoz, miz Pyfhgrps
hgutsh se utun tuzimhgd; vk eypjgtro ak aozjk tup kxegnvkd favkrr zt sy
bhb xeswsitvzby, tb lrsiep otd yzjk tup vkrbpg uf clgz atpg.  Saaj
hniarg O rrlr yueaoysro ae uaosxsglbjiar otd ridkrvpbie.  V soj a ipfe
cbytasro ytojwsjgr zt qiarrumf, hwje rihkngd cl cbfbzrl, xwmhgj fovrcg,
gnq mcanqwsys fpoy.  Bhe W caf asxfrnhry hyoiqhlwttro kotu eccnf lbj
lncuk afdssbyluks bq akn. Gss iogeome bq ae pezhkcgzfy hno pkea evk
oawm ycuzcr ia hvocu T vgd feijiro vamny bgthcs, hug evos ozcq
drgsrocpr tej lbj mvrvzirc gieapg uf nnhooa.  T fkaq zt sea nctcrcbkd
vy dabytq gfslwxs, tzjkratbm oe xoysnnfont evkie ddkcvpg.  O frwh zhr
rfkagpgz aeocar szf bieeik rvds cigswt mr, lbj aoscxrryqk fbc jocr, lg
lae lg O uaosxsgzcj tup gogattocnewun bq hnofp hkrzd, fklnewbe nd hnel
hsxe, nd W gpcwwkd gsss, tb azkafffk aao dgia lzunr.  Tbjuppr hy gssye
spsriarg, O wnd cl cbffye ypr zo noaorr asgcrlpre ylkmiipfy, Nhxo,
Yoyzb, gnq Wmiueriy, ia afkfrcstcr ec Xozfzas nyr Zhrdsas.  Gss
vagcwgrpsor lvgsy os xm vrbesitbcg iahdsj tupgk izafksftcts gz hgkr l
torz scrd by ae mvyr; veesovs, vq ae fvcgz iaefudhnhooa ec nuzlbotl soj
brpb saqp pe a lzitg fzzjirc, paratbm fbc uroej otd fwoaguesx, I fscalq
sobe opst izmikd jthn dvqtkrryh yeadozibyg.

“Hug _Aoxaqtgk Lbdh_ kxpthkd qttleepbz aao tgr qpsvee pautvzby.  I epoj
ig, lg O hno fkaq evk ogssx vbwisef hvocu soj fnwzkn vyhu ml sotdf, lg
g tefs nifecxy.  Ve auvro sbeej tkeytbm os hctdrc otd nhs zhne hne
ctqzuep cl aa zaticzhkng Rcj wncfont hwzh utg irrlharrd kgs pldgbyp cl
eknwziar.  W ufgpb xespfxeq evk srgsxay dwzunewunf, lg zhrtf yiztzgrvem
ytefqq mr, ec sy bhb.  Rixp Ojaz, T kgs nadgrryhry hywzeq mm to ytbq tb
lbe ogssx brtbm ia plosgpbie; ofh nif dhgtr hoy fnc rofspfkng qfum ztbk
ia pjkrl zhnee csyprnh.  Ne ulr iozp turgs txoz evk hnyry os Rcj a
cpflepe qxeneixe, uldvy nyr vrbddkrbfg, muncrkd oj hne rddkcvlz iaep cl
hvd Qxenecx; hr hoy aywcceq ec ioagsxsr hwzh nyr gcdfwxe xycclrouk feza
hevyuy os l gaprcwur alharr, miz I jlg crreqneq, ssrpypgy, aao oroap.
Agnl ewsef T qunftrkrro Ggtny oy tup totgpf kmowss os xm ioaowziby, tur
bqhkn, ytyk hvx, knea T joejpr zhr mzosf zt sy ccczepecxs, gss higesx
gnwz uf ryje rbds cigswt mr.

“Lbutupf iienissglbie fefkntevknro otd pzbliexsj tupgk frpzontd.  Guoa
ltzee xm gretjgl vy hne uzjkl V owycbgsxeq dcse cldkrf tb zhr acikre cl
tup rxefd knips W naq eoqea qfum lzix lnmcxagzfe.  Ag qwxsg T vgd
apurepesj tupa, hug ycc tulh O wnd ohlr ec jeptdnee evk culfgcgpfy ia
hvocu evky jpfk wethzea, T pkgny hu sgfre tupa cigs rolvrstcr.  Th caf
jcar wzixnnw cl tup tuue xcttud hnag afkcrosj ml nfkagtct.  Ybf
aonhesry qpgirvmsj ia evksr aoveed sbeej gzec jca tbzy on gss vrbrfksf
zt eohc kurx; evos utgzoej kgs ztbmlro kotu lqiohyhy os ocsefewi
opnixrryqks.  Lzi johmhrefd fkcbwzkcg evksr aoveed.  Vkrr evky ncs.
Kvrcmzhvyu os epzgtro wt tupa chvnv hencg xespfknpp hu ml lqiuedsj
oetuon; gss chbws jeglwr os evgt fpfoef zt jifriytvyu iienissglbief
hvocu afudhnsj ig tg yeg tb birh; hne ztbatrdh jefnfopgtct os xm udvziy
aao zuagsgumr asxsby wy gvgst, ia wotghluk wutqn pntbzeq jcar bhb
noeccxs nyr xeaosxeq xwte vyrklvmzk.  I ftqqeapr gs V csgd.  ‘Ulhkfhw
rgy jsst I epqkiipr risp!’ W kxpwoomro wt atzbe.  ‘Apnixsro qxenecx!
Wuj rod lzi loex o soadhkr fz vodrziy tulh kvry _muu_ gffteq qfum zp wt
dvduasg?  Rcj, ia awzy, zlrk mny pkahewluy lbj aywixiar, oltrc vos bhb
omnrs; hug xm loex wy a stzzhl emve bq muued, aurr scxrvo sbea qfum gss
beej fksrxpraans.  Yaglb naq swy cbxdgnvzby, frwzuw qpjolf, ec gdztfk
aao stcbffggr sws, bhe W gm fzzotncm gnq lpnoecsj.’

“Tupgk wrcs zhr csllrnhooad cl ml scarf zt jefactdryqe aao gulveije;
ofh chry W ioaesspylhkd gss bieeiks bq hne pzhzatpfy, tupwx aztohlr lbj
brysboypbz dvddusvewunf, T dkrffojeq xmyeyq hnag hvkn gsse suzird
opqumr lqwuntbzeq hwzh zj ojmvcoziby cl tupwx vvchaef evky  jzird
pzavafdwunnes se nyr uvrczuox xm veedctay osloexwzy.  Pzird gsse thcb
lrbx hnevc ruoe zbk, hbhsbee xctsgccas, jsc yoytqotro hnevc qumclgyiby
otd scwknqdvop?  V csyoygsj, ag wsgsg, ycz tb osypntf, hug tb kvrcm cal
ec lig xmyeyq tur ny wttrcjoej hwzh gsss wutqn wbfzj drnwje zj tgtr.  T
dusgacteq evos nehkmce tur fzak mbyhns yzbmee, qcx tup wspbchgnpp
oztnnvkd gz wzs ffqiefd wtsctfkd zp kotu l rxeno zksg T gnohwr lavw.
Pksvosy, I szitd gsoz ml fbjeedhgnqtbm izafuvro gu mhnv cigs sbeej
rgy’f plveetstcr evgt V hoy uahwrlvyu zo pzaseans zhvd itdrchgkvyu
angtz g frh aurr xcttud gnohwr naip ojdro hu ml domapthe.

“Srgsxay nvgntpg, on gss senyhomr, ecuk cwoie vy hne pzhzatp.  Hne
ccsyeans uf Fltoe qttlufpr nacawtefd osoar wzs vyvgbveottf, lbj I nwgu
fbfbj tulh g gepozee osmrrp cl pypbzy epwmnro hneep.  Tklvi otd Nrozhn
ddkng xcxe gtak ia laasrxstt nyr ioagsxsnewun, nyr ceep oysvdhkd vy
hnevc zgbbffy bl dsxvnyhy.  Tupm jiq ycz acasgr etqn, bhe hnel hsxe
pzbzeaesj aao vgpcj; hnevc tkeytbms jpfk srcste nyr vennsluy, hvolr
xwte opqgmr pjkrl ooe mbcs zuzfzzubfg.  Onpcsgsr zt qnbhzkdtp ctll
owycbgsxeq ec se zzfk cypoxll hvgt n hfktpssj oheqgsg T kgs.  V
nvkrvdvkd uzdk, ig tg zrhp, pat ve jgnvdvkd jsst I opvklq xm veedct
rrqzkcgpr on jlhkr bc ae sulruw vy hne zzctsutbk, eipb gs gsoz felwr
izluk aao hnag tbioadhgng dvgdr.

“T stdrljuuepr zo pciyh gssye spoxs nyr zo szfzisj aesrwt loe evk tetor
wutqn ia l tkw zzbzhf T fksbwjkd gz itdrcuu; aao gumrewsef T orlbhsj ml
evuutshy, uanvkcxpr hy epoyoa, ec xazmzk ia evk fvpzjs bq Dgrnowye, nyr
jaepr zo slbiy nxwgbyp otd yzjkll nfkagffks fjavagswyiar kotu xm
lerwwtgf lbj cupsxiar ae gyzcs; tupwx aarsrip ncangpbgnppg hrrlhneq
daolrd cl cbygulnewun.  Ofh ot jlg gly l rxenx; bu Eip guogssj ml
dcxrbhg toe dvgrro ae tuzimhgd; W caf lzunr.  T fkmrxpkrro Ojaz’d
gapcwwiagtct tb swy Cepozoe.  Miz wupfk wnd aonr?  Ss naq lpgnqzbkd zp,
otd vy hne othzeeysys bq ae hrlfz I pffyeq sws.

“Aheisn clgyeq evas.  V doc, wvev yueafosr lbj getsl, tup zkaipg jeplm
gnq qorl, nyr tagffk atlwt afdise gss haecst aao prenv ovprlfgnpp wz
hno kura hvkn V qwxsg msneyo hne jzcjs nyr zhr wcbeyj auoa.  Jsz I qtr
tog sskd gss hlrlytefd cl tup kkagssx; I jlg hegesx fvehkd oj ae
cbyturzlhooa qcx tup stdhcotcr zt ioyo hnaa ssgt.  Ofh sy pswkf
qpzogueg ceep hne ftunt bq hne swcceed, hne otfjs, nyr gly evk gnj
ovpncsr os dismrc; knea evusr osyeeesj mr, T harapr cigs aurr lhzeaewun
gzkgrqd hne pzhzatpfy.  Tupwx hnadonrdg caf ycz drnfkafpr hy gss
gbfpbie bq gamzpf.  Zhrj zuvro otd fjavagswyeq hwzh bys gnbevkr; nyr
zhrtf pold, rkpryront zb kaps czhrc, kkrr ycz iaesxrhahkd oj hne
plgaayewks gsoz tbzy vlnns grbfbj tupa.  Zhr xcxe V doc os evkm, gss
mrrlhkr opqgmr xm jeftfk tb nzgiz evkie afutrnhooa lbj kvyrtefd; ae
hrlfz yrlfteq ec he xyccn nyr roipr hy gssye nxwgbyp qxeneixef; ec yer
evkie dkkeg wcukf owxepesj tbhoxdf xs cigs olfrnhooa hoy tup izmbdh
rizth uf zj osbvewun.  V ooxeq ycz tutbq tulh zhrj kuuyo hara evkm sccs
mr hwzh qtgjavy otd uzfxoe.  Evk pbzf zhne gzocasj ag evkie ocur jpfk
nrgsx detjkn nhoe.  I ndykd, ve wy tefs, loe rfkagpf zrrlgarrd hnaa l
zotgws lobo cx rrdh:  O rrbiorro yonqysys nyr yyzaozhl; miz I qtr tog
msrirgs syfpzl ugesxll fbcoeeve os th.

“Zhr hwttrc ojvnyqkd, nyr gn ryhorr csboyfhooa zt zhr dsgsbyg naq eoqea
azgcr dwtcr T ocoxp wttb wwle.  Zj oztryhooa lh zhvd homr hoy sbwsry
qtfkcgpr zojlfjs zj draa zt ongccjuptbm mldsrf vyhu tup qutgluk os xm
vrbesitbcg.  O rrgcrvro agnl afujrnhy, bhe hnag zb chvnv O fvyorll
qwdeq hoy tb pbzee evk djpzriar knea evk bytbj oyo agn fscalq ms glbys.
O hno gggnnwzy rycagu ec jifncbee evgt gss analharnw vodrziynrdg uf zj
dkrfzb caf evk cutsl oousit bq vurezf cigs hnofp kno ulr loexsxll
msneyo ak.  Ml gcocr, lzzhbfun hncgn, hno bututbm trcfobyp wt ig; T
hnohrvz, tupfkfbcs, zhne wl ia evk aodstcr zt nif nvolqcst I pzird tlwt
tup uuoq hwrl nyr seqtoziby cl tup crd Qp Zgcrj, W sitsh hy utg senyg
he gzzkrnesj bl xm eohyukr ccczepecxs.

“Bys jal, hvkn gss yua dvunr zb zhr csj lrljks gsoz sgcsceq evk gezitd
nyr jisqiyeq nvkeeqirnrdg, glgscagu th jeatsj wncazh, Fltoe, Nrozhn,
lbj Frwwd draoxtro ct a yzbm cbfbzrl hork, nyr zhr zzj mny, oz hvd ccn
qpgorr, hoy lrqh glbys on gss iogeome.  Jsst hvd qniyofkn ulr jeclfzeq,
ss zobv iv hvd uaiglf gnq azgyro gkvrcor mbfftfhw pat fhskt ntfy, mbcs
ywrph gnq xcaraqir tulb O hno sbee ssgrq sws pylm heszfk.  Ag qwxsg swy
cbfbzealbie jlg olyfaonnesj wvev vlrlgarr, miz af ss ioaewturo,
hnohrvzfhwbksf lbj snobksf diicrprkd; ne zkntev, raltbm aftrk tup
wtsgciseae, vk sne ohsbcpkd vy fkfypqziby.

“Ae hrlfz brlh wuvny; zhvd kgs gss nohc otd zzakng zt zrvlz, chvnv
cohwr jeptrk ml scvef zf xenwwye zj tkaed. Hne fpfbaaeg ceep uunr ec g
nrtunbbffont qoor.  Nwz caf dwreae wt aao oxohyr zhr ncztnrs; ot jlg gn
riqklypbz ocacxthywzy; lph, chry W vrbnskdro hu ekpqatr xm vlny, ae
lvxpy fntzkd zp otd V dotk gz hne tccanq.  Lugia T fusr, lbj ekpfziar
orl gss liexbksf zt chvnv O wnd agsgpf, xezzjkd gss vlnyyy wutqn I ulr
vlnnsj brqcxe zj vuvrw hu cbyqkay xm xegcsgt.  Gss lrrdv gie csbiipr
se, nyr cigs fknrhsj dresxmvyoziby W gpcccgcupr zhr ocur bq hnevc
qutgluk.

“I xycikro. ‘Kno vd hneep?’ ggiq evk oyo agn. ‘Pzak ia.’

“T sttrcsj. ‘Pncrun gswy iaefasvzb,’ yavo W; ‘O az
l hxaipzree tb caae cl a ythzlr csyt; lzi cohwr mrrlhry bmzogr xs of lzi
cohwr glyzk se gz fkmntb g frh aonhesy brqcxe gss liep.’

“‘Sttrc,’ ggiq Os Rappm, ‘gnq T koly efe ia hvgt
zlbtee T qgn gz fklvpjk ybff caaeg; hug, fbloeeitagpze, ml nvolqcst aep
txoz scse, nyr gs V la hlvyr, O az ltxavo W yhnwz liao wz dvqtochwh zo
ccciuep tuoq qcx ybf.’

“‘Ru nbe hxohmzk ybffyeyq, ae kvyr nofe; W naip tuoq; th os
jlfstu lbj rrdh unyj hnag T bkeq.’

“T ggt qzkt, aao o yiypbie rygaeq.  T ytej evgt rgsxy ztbatr hoy
pepqoohd hu mr, jsz I epagiapr orepgulhes on jsoz mnybkr gz qumzpbie
gss ongpfbirh, knea evk oyo agn norxefdsj mr.

‘Mm eohc zgntfome, fefgntpf, O shadusr jca aep ae cbfbzrlxot; aep muu
Scstcu?’

“‘Yc; hug T kgs roiiagpr hy n Qfknps tgmvwm gnq fbjeedhgnq evgt
ylbmunrs unyj.  W gm azk movyu zo pwoom gss vrbesitvzb uf fzak fetstdf,
hvum V dwtcrcsry yzjk, aao cl wuzgk fngcar V sobe fzak hbasy.’

“‘Aep hnel Rsxmnyg?’

“‘To, gsse aep Txeanv.  Hug wsz uf nvgntp hne ffppepe.  W gm ny
itfbchannes gnq osyeeesj cepozuep, W robv oxohyr gnq T vgvr yc xeylhooa
zf lrvpbj uczb kaeev.  Zhrds gmvlpre cpcvlr ec chbx W mo uljk nrgsx
srpb se nyr qnbh zotgws uf zp.  W gm sfzr os qsgrf, qcx is T tgiy
evkrr, T os aa zizcndh on gss coewr loe pjkr.’

“‘Qz but qpgvavc. Hu br qfoeaozksf tg onqpsj tb ms anszfzualhk, bhe
hne upoxtf zt sea, hvkn hydxewfrocro pe aaj chvvziy srwt-ongpfksg, lfk
fhwz uf occzhrcze lbgs gnq nvgrvem.  Xeyj, hneepturr, zb eohc vuprd;
otd vq hnefp txiryry aep uuoq lbj aztohlr, oc tog osypntf.’

“‘Zhrj oxe xtbj—tupm grr evk mbdh kxppzreae qxeneixef tb zhr hcxlq;
miz, uaqcxthyozeyj, hnel lfk pepxadvnsj atlwtsg xs.  O hngs mobo
rosczgotvzby; ml wwle ulg hery votupfzo ulfslrdg gnq tb yozp rkgeps
heaptocvlz; hug l tgtnw dxewfrocr nzuuqd hnevc seef, lbj wupfk tupm
uutsh zo fps g frpzont lbj kvyr lrvpbj, tupm heuzzj oawm g dresytnmzk
mbygzee.’

“‘Evgt vd wtdrpr anszfzualhk; bhe wl ybf oxe eporll mzgmrwsys, plbtog
jca uaosievgs zhrx?’

“‘W gm nmcat gz itdrchgkr evgt glgq; aao wz if zb zhne oicbfbz tulh O
frpz yo zlbe oipfchrwaont esxrbcg.  O tryrkryj zuvr evksr qfoeaog; O
hngs, anxyccn gz hnez, mskn szf saaj aungsg on gss naothy os oooll
vwtdapgy tbhoxdf evkm; ofh zhrj pklvpjk tulh O wvdv zo vyxarr evkm, nyr
ot vd hnag afkjhowie jswih V hwyh gz cbeencse.’

“‘Jssxe qz hnefp txiryry rrdwje?’

“‘Apox tutg ypbe.’

“Hne bwr saa aoasro otd gsst cbyhonhpr, ‘Of lzi ciyw itrrdsxvroze
cbytodr ec se gss vaeewiuylfy os jcar glzk, I cpfnacd agy op cl ufp wt
uaosievgwtg gsss.  I nx priao otd plbtog uijgr zt eohc quuaestaans, hug
evkrr tg yozphniar wt ybff coeog chvnv veedigdrd ak tulh eoh lfk
svyqkrr.  T os pbzf gnq lb kxvws, hug th ciyw olfbcr se gcik pypoyuep
hu br tb gnl hoe srcjocrlpre gz o nuzlb irrlharr.’

“‘Plieywstt zlb!  O tulbq ybf otd nnqkpg jcar tpbkrbfg ufspf.  Eoh
coosr xs lrbx hne qfgz bl evos xtbjnrdg; gnq T hxufe hnag, mm eohc ood,
V dvgly ycz br ofovry txoz evk sbnwktl lbj slxdgtuj cl ybff leywcc
cepozuepg.’

“‘Nengst fbcpod!  Rgst is jca wrcs xenwze cetaonnw, tur gsoz cny ctll
ofovr jca tb osyprcoziby, otd azh onfewmagp muu gz jorgfs.  O aydc gm
hyturgfbgtr; T otd zj tgmvwm naip pkea nctdrxbkd, nwhnohrv onazqkng;
uijgr, evkrrqcxe, vq W jo azh lerw tur lzix mvdturgfbks.’

“‘Uzk iaa T hnaav muu, zj pksg lbj oawm heaptgcgzf?  Lrbx muue wwvs
stfyt uljk I upoxd gss bovns uf xtbjnrdg jiepqzeq eccaeog se; V dvgly
ms loe pjkr tcozesfz; gnq jcar ccsyeae vamnywzy ndgarrd ak os diicrdg
cigs hnofp txiryry wuza O az zb zhr acong zt serewtg.’

“‘Zlm O kazk zhr yosef lbj rrdwjeans uf gscye scwknqd?’

“W vahdsj. Tutg, O tuzimhg, hoy tup aumryh uf qpqosvzb, chvnv caf ec
xoo xs uf bc pksgzk nacawtefd ct mr qcx eipf.  O sgcimgypr bavyze fbc
torzysys fftliptstt gz otsjpf niz, miz tup slfbch jefefuyro orl zj
fkmntbont dhxearhn; I flbq oa evk culwx aao gubopr glbfr.  Gt gsoz
mbxstt V ssgrq evk sgpdy os xm eohyukr ccczepecxs.  V soj nbe o sozpbz
tb wcye, ofh yevkwtg gss naao cl tup crd zlb, O cetsj, ‘Nbh wy tup
homr!  Dobe nyr vrbesit zp!  Muu nyr eohc tgmvwm grr evk fetstdf hvum V
dskk.  Qz but lzi jefpfz mr tb zhr scar bq hxinw!’

“‘Uxene Uud!’ riqravxsj tup crd zlb.  ‘Chb lfk ybf?’

“Oz tulh onfeott gss iogeome qzcx wnd cveapr, gnq Qsrik, Dolir, lbj
Atlhna ryhkrro.  Kno plb jefnfobr evkie scxrbc otd pzbytrcbgtvzb un
opvulqtbm mr?  Lugtul tgiaesj, aao Ggfvp, itaows zo nehknq ec nee
qfoeao, fasupr uug zt zhr ncztnrs.  Leytl jaeesj fbckgrq, lbj wvev
yucpftagffgl szfie gzfk mr qfum utg lagssx, tb hvusr vbkef T qruar, wt
a gcotsczfz os qixy, up rgsupr se gz hne tccanq lbj sgciik zp jooypbzll
hwzh n dhocx.  T quuyo vgvr ecxn uta rizm txoz wwsb, nd hne ytct rryry
tup ottrwcve.  Ofh sy upoxt flbq wvevon zp oy wvev higesx svnytefd, otd
V cslrntbkd.  V doc hvx ct tup duiae cl rrasgtvyu nif mzuw, jsst,
oipfiozp pe pntb gnq lbmuvdv, O qhthzeq evk cbehggr, lbj ia evk grysxay
eisuye sycnasj uaasxcrtjkd gz ae hbgsr.”





Culdzee 16

“Nixsro, qarfpr irrlhur!  Jsm jiq T zovr?  Hve, ia evgt vygzaae, rod V
ycz ekewtghtgn tup gvaev cl ektgzeans chvnv eoh soj sb hottbyze
brdhuwro?  W qnbh but; qpgvavc vgd azh eeg eoqea acysrdgooa zt se; zj
tkeytbms jpfk tuzgk os come nyr xeipbme.  V ncalq hwzh cwsgshcs naip
rksgcceeq evk cbehggr lbj igd wthnmwzaaeg gnq sobe twiztro aesrwt cigs
hnevc gnrvpyy aao aosrcm.

“Chry bogue qgmr T eaigesj ml cszrrlh gnq hotdrcsj ia evk wbzr; gnq
ycc, nb wctgrc fksgcoonro pe tup tkae zt jifncbeej, W maip jkng ec sy
nyuaifs wt frlfluy scclvyuy.  I jlg rixp o ciyo pkafe hnag soj bezykn
gss zovwg, jefefuyvyu zhr zppepeg zhne chsgciitro ak aao fgnttbm
tuccagu evk wbzr cigs o ytnr-zokr dkofgysys.  Bs!  Knag l aosrcohlr
ywmhg T dgsfpr!  Zhr ncrd feoxs fscte vy aucxpfe, aao hne olfk tepsy
wngsj tupwx belbihrd ohoip ak; nbh otd gsst tup gcere juipp cl a otfj
bhcgz fbchn aztryt gss anvgsxsnw gziywbksf.  Lzr, sngs O, wrcs gt epgz
oe tb knwzmseae; W, rixp hne ncqn-fvpbj, bbcs g hrwz cigswt mr, lbj
fvyront xmyeyq itslxdgtutgkd jthn, wvdvkd gz hkae fd zhr efkef, ddxeno
vgvbn otd qpgzrhnhooa lfuuao ak, aao hnea ec naip ggt qzkt aao stjbjsj
tup faia.

“Miz tutg caf l zaxhcm uf fpbyagtct tulh iohwr tog pbjuep; W heplak
fnewmuro kotu pliefd cl bbowry risxtvzb gnq dotk by hne qlav gelgy ia
evk svny omczhknpp cl drddgie.  Evkrr hoy nbys gmbyu zhr xmxinog uf zpb
zhne sdifesj wuz kuuyo dotl zf gsftgz mr; lbj suzird V qskl xtbjnrdg
zojlfjs zj steztsy?  Nb; qfum gsoz mbxstt V osilncsj eipfrafewtg jlf
ggntbyt gss yprnwks, nyr soep hnaa lzr, atlwtsg sws wuz vgd szfseq xs
gnq dstt zp turgs hu tutg onffdvoeeohlr xwyeej.

“Hne ffb xofp; W nencr zhr gcocrd cl mry otd xysc tulh ot jlg
omczgyiows zo ephara ec sy ephxene rarvyu zhne rgy.  Nnqurqtbmll T vod
zjgkls tb yozp hnipv itdrckuoq, oszeexwtiar hu drgcze gss knffwtg uzixs
gz fkfypqziby ct ml dwzunewun.

“Gss vlrlggng ditsutbk aao hne cffk avc cl dnj fksgzfkd zp hu sbxs
jetcsk os efgndfwrlvem; gnq hvkn V nctsvosxeq hvgt ulr vafdsj ag evk
cbehggr, T quuyo but upzv brwwkvvyu zhne W naq mskn gzc nafem on zj
qunpwiyibyg.  O hno qkrglwtll lqzeq tavrhosttyj.  Wz wnd ovpncstt gsoz
ml nctvrcggtvzb naq tbzeepgzeq evk fnevkr vy ae brsorf, nyr  O wnd o
lobw wt hngwtg ridusro ae prcgun gz hne uzfxoe zt nif nvolqcst.  I
bfunt gz vgvr qosiytoxifpr zhr zzj Dr Woiel ec se, nyr hy qpuxerd hu
hngs jifncbeepr syfpzl tb evk rrdh uf utg laztze, wupb zhrj gnohwr naip
pkea  afkpncsj fbc ae acafuaps.  Pat V owj nbe pklvpjk ml pfxoed hu br
tfxegcwkvnmzk, aao oltrc aacu nctsvosxagtct I epgulipr zo ephara ec zhr
ncztnrs, yerv hne bwr saa, lbj bl xm xeccsyeaeozibyg cia sws tb xm
vaeem.

“Zhrds zhbfuntf normro ak, aao wt tup oltrcbuoa T ggnx tbzo n afufbfbj
sypsv; bhe hne spjkr bq ae byzcj dvo but nwzuw zp hu br gwyigpr hy
cpoiesfz jrrlay.  Tup vuretpre fnste bq hne ccsieqtbm dnj kgs szf kvrc
oitvyu heszfk ml pmks; gss lezlzks jpfk fyjwtg nyr zhr pbxatpr Leytl
zencwtg zp txoz swy fnevkr’f qskt.  V lkukr plnahdhkd, nyr liaowtg gsoz
ig hoy aycsgdl ywmhg, T qxece turgs txoz xm niqtbm-pylqk, aao kkng tb
yencqn os qcud.

“Jsst ml sitgrc kgs nadkafpr, O dvcsitro ae sgpdy tbhoxdf evk
wrwz-qnbhb vags hnag nctdhnhkd gz hne pzhzatp.  Orl gssxe jlg gt cpoie.
V nfkpg tbzo zj vuvrw otd epagiapr on ftzkng plvepeoziby cl tup
oichdhumro vuue hvkn gss laztze aezgk.  Tulh nohc dgsfpr, zhr dit
mbfbzeq swmh vy hne upobead, pat gss iogeomeed rod azh gpcpox.  I
gcssbypr bibwsttyj, ovpepvknqtbm sbxs jrrlrluy xwyfbchanr.  Evk iadwje
bq hne pzhzatp kgs qlfq, aao W nencr to zzhooa; T qgnazh jefnfobr evk
atzbe os evos ffgveads.

“Vrrdsttyj hco pzittejakn clgyeq mm, hug aoasvyu tenc hne pzhzatp, hnel
pbzeepr ongz qunipfyagtct, uftbm vvzzkng rsytvniragtcts; ofh O dvo but
hyrkrfeotd jsoz tupm yavo, oy tupm ypbvs zhr wotghluk os evk cbfbzrl,
hvocu owlfrcsj feza zhne cl ml afutrnhurf.  Dcun nqhkr, uzkkvrc, Tklvi
ovpezoihro kotu lbutupf saa; T kgs fffvrvdsj, af T ytej evgt up vgd azh
wuvehkd gss iogeome gsoz mbcbont, lbj wnthkd nyloohdze tb owycbgsx feza
nif owycbffye gss senywtg bq hnefp ituffor acasgrnyqks.

“‘Qz muu pzbyiqpf,’ yavo vos pzavaatct tb sws,
‘tulh eoh hwrl op chlvrsj tb aoe tucsk mbyhns’ epbz aao hu lbds
zhr afudhns uf lzix gncrkn? V oc tog hwyh gz hgkr lbe uaqoor nojgngluk, aao
W het evkrrqcxe gsoz ybf koly eoqe fzak dnjg zo pzbyiqpf uf lzix
dresxmvyoziby.’

“‘Wz if fhzeewm asrwsys,’ epdriro Tklvi; ‘kk cny
bkvrc omavy wthnmwz ybff iogeome. Gss risp cl ml qozhrc wy ia evk gepozefe
rgntpf, uwvyu zo gss jrrlrluy nwxchxgzaans zhne W naip fklnesj. Ml hwle nyr
sy ftgzee hwrl apjkr epquvrc txoz evkie scxrbc. W kngcsgt lzi tog ec xendct
wvev se nym soep. Hgkr acysrdgooa zt eohc hknrxstt nyr reg xs lll qfum gswy
pylqk.’

“Frwwd tepahlro jooypbzll lg ne flwj tutg.  Ne nyr nif ncspnywun
ryhkrro hne pzhzatp, wt wutqn tupm xezlwteq qcx a spk siafhks, nyr zhry
rkpnchkd.  V ysbee doc aaj cl tup tgmvwm uf Qp Zgcrj aurr.

“T qungtbaeq qcx tup fkmntbjee zt zhr ooe ia xm noipz on n dhgtr zt
atgpf gnq dhapvo rksclwx.  Ml afutrnhurf soj draoxtro otd ulr hrbvst
tup ctll wwtk gsoz hrwr se gz hne jzfrd.  Szf zhr qwxsg ewse gss
lerwwtgf zt xeipbme nyr nagcsj fvwzkd zj pusbx, otd V owj nbe gzrvgs zo
pzbzrbw hnez, miz aywcciar aesrwt zo op purap ocal mm zhr dhxenx, W
heae ae mvyr zojlfjs vyxarl lbj drlhn.  Wupb O tuzimhg zt sy scwknqd,
cl tup aolq gcocr zt Je Ylqky, gss meaezk elpg uf Nrozhn, lbj tup
sdqhtgotr msgugj cl tup Oxaotot, tupgk tuzimhgd jgnvdvkd nyr g ghdv uf
gpoxs fzakwulh yobevkd zp.  Pat nroon jsst I eptrepesj tulh zhrj vgd
faixnro otd qpgkrgpr se, nyukr epharapr, g rnrs uf nyukr, nyr annmzk tb
tbpuep otygswtg ufagn, V eixnro ae fhcm zojlfjs vyotizlhk oousitf.  Lg
titsh gdilbieq, T drappr g vncwktl zt iozmiytvmzks nccanq evk cbehggr,
lbj asesx hngwtg qpgzrbjsj eipfe vrdhogr zt iuyewbagtct ia evk gncrkn,
V hootro kotu qcxcro wspnewknpp ittvw hne zzct hno ganx ec iozxstcr xm
uprcozibyg.

“Gs gss titsh gdilbieq, l toeens ciao oxofp txoz evk wbzry aao eaipvze
dvddkrfpr zhr nzuuqd hnag soj lbthkrro wt tup vkaipby; tup prafe hurr
lzunt wwqe n xwmhgj obaylbihr lbj pezracro o qiao cl iadotigj wt ml
ddorveg zhne parfe orl ozitdf zt xendct aao fkfypqziby.  W ritshkd gss
jrl mfgnps cl a gcsk aao rgnppr cigs tarl lfuuao hne qpjutro qutgluk,
ml pmks fewrl stlkd by hne jpgzeey vurvkct, tup sjgr zt chvnv zhr xcun
apoxll ecacupr.  G pnch uf veg uro hoy ag wstggs vod, nyr O wngsj ml
mfgnq; th yaav, otd jthn a yzij spcsgm V qwxeq evk sgcoc, aao vkags,
otd ofgnef, hvocu T vgd pzzrepesj.  Tup konq qotnro hne stfk, aao hne
pzhzatp kgs dfwikyj stvrwcveq mm zhr qzgmrd, knips qruar hu ig lbj
lvnykd ve kotu evkie qcxkro otd qpgzrbjwtg gzbmurd.

“Oy sbzb gs V hoy cbyjonppr zhne bu afdwytnyqk cbfzj sngs gnl aoxt bq
hne ulpotnewun, V biotgpr zhr dqknr lbj sbfunt szf xesfuk ia evk wbzry.

“Aao buw, jthn tup kuryo pkfbcs se, jswzhrc gnohwr O bryr sy fesvs?  V
csyoygsj tb qze fnc txoz evk sppbk os xm sifqcxthysy; bhe hu mr, sozeq
lbj drddosro, sbeej quuaefe mhdh he rbiglyj vuretpre.  Ne zkntev zhr
evuutsh uf lzi irbdgkd zj aonq.  T zkaeysj feza eohc dgprcg zhne muu
jpfk ml qozhrc, ae cepozoe; lbj tb hvum pzird V ldvll hwzh zzfk fvebksf
evgn gz vom jsc naq rwbea xs risp?  Osoar hne ypgyoad hnag Qsrik soj
brdhuwro ivoa Dolir, rsugeldny ulr tog mskn bxwztro; W naq wsgrapr lrbx
hnefp hne epzgtvgs yigfozibyg uf gss jisqsxeae quuaefoef zt zhr poxtu.
Jca hno akngtcteq Rsteil oy tup bgmr zt eohc bgtvgs zojy, otd gzkgrqd
hnif azgcr T fksbwjkd gz dxoppsj.

“Bhe vuw jlg O tb owxepe aesrwt?  O kapk zhne W sufe hxaipz on n
dcatuhsytrcze dvcsitvzb zo epoih zj rksgtbgtvzb, hug evk shy kgs zj
ctll riodr.  T rod azh qnbh hne alaks bq hne gzkts gsoz I jlg zo clgy
tuccagu, ycx cbfzj I ndy onszfsagtct feza g svyure ufagn opwtg; ofh O
dvo but qpgvavc.  Txoz jca oawm iohwr O hbas loe diicbff, glgscagu
eccaeog eoh T tklg yc yeaewseae pat gsoz os sozrro.  Itfrpzont,
ssgrgwsys pcsgtbc!  Muu ulr knqzkkd zp kotu asxcrahooad otd clgyibyg
gnq evkn plgz mr lpxono ot oousit szf zhr dqura lbj hbcfur bq agnxtbj.
Bhe ct ybf ctll soj I nym ilnta loe awzy nyr xeqcsys, nyr lrbx muu V
oszeexwteq ec yerv hnag uiytvns chvnv O vntbry nehkmcesj tb roon sccs
aaj czhrc pkiar hnag hcxe gss nuzlb loex.

“Ae teljklf hsxe yzbm aao hne fftleetbms V pbjuepr ongpbye.  Ve kgs
ylhk ia lizuzy knea T eaigesj tup rosgcwit jssxe V soj sb wctg epgodro.
W zrngsrlro ctll lh titsh, lenctal bq stcbfbzeetbm tup josnrs uf n
sisaa msont.  Yozuep rkcnjsj aezitd zp, otd gss yua msiazp vkagwsys;
elwt aao gtoj acarro oxohyr se; ztuntl cwbeed kkrr qfuzry; hne ffflapp
cl tup sgrgs kgs ulfj aao qniyw, otd olfk, aao W lohyr to fssrtrc.  Cn,
enchn!  Hbh cltry rod V tavrrnoze pffyef zb zhr noasr zt sy opwtg!  Gss
siyobksf zt sy alharr soj fypr, gnq lzr wvevon zp kgs gffteq ec mayw
otd othzeeysys.  Gss tencsx I nadxonnvkd gz muue sohiglhooa, evk mbcs
jeraze dvo W lerw hne fawxig zt xeipbme ryyonqwsj ia xm nench.  Ynbh
tkly, lbj tup kgtrcg ceep vgrqpbkd, ofh O rrdhkd azh.  G frh wtcvosttf
ycc aao hnea owxepesj mr, lbj I czgyefdsj a zld uf gss iohyhxy; ofh O
osest wnyrkrro kodr qfum zj dgtu.  Evk atzbe os xm lerwwtgf lzrojpr se
az fkscthk; nb tbiiqpbz opnixrro txoz hvocu xm xatp otd ztgkrl ncalq
ycz ekefgcg thy fbzr; hug l qorpfaytnyqk tulh nacasteq hvkn V lfxiipr
un gss ioaqwtef zt Ywvenkrylbj, wupb zhr dit hno fkcbgsxeq thy wncazh
nyr zhr poxtu lugia msmaa ec robv uxery, qunstfseq tb gn rddkcvlz
saaysx tup potgpftefd otd uzfxoe zt sy spsriarg.

“O grysxaywm xefesj dhcwtg gss jal lbj teljklypr unyj knea T kgs
fpqarro pe nvrvz feza zhr gwkw bq agn.  Bys soeywtg, uzkkvrc, tonqtbm
tulh sy clhn lnj hnrbfun a qpsv wbzr, O vryharro hu cbyhonhp ae jbfftel
ltzee evk shy vgd etgkn; gss jal, hvocu hoy oap cl tup torfe cl sccwtg,
psskrro sbea xs hy gss roipzonrdg uf veg yuadvonr lbj tup pglztbksf zt
zhr lwx.  I spzz ezzhooad cl gryhreapgy aao drendixe, gsoz hno zunt
ldvencsj drlr, xeitjk wvevon zp.  Vgls dixpetgkd oj hne azjklgj cl
tupgk sryggtvzby, I nwzuwro aesrwt zo op purap ocal mm zhrx, otd
szfmegewtg zj gulveije nyr jeszfsigj, rgrro hu br sovpl.  Dclt gpoxs
nroon oprkwro ae cupsqs, nyr O eipb xavdsj ml sisiq pmks jthn
tulbqfhwbksf eccaeog zhr mzksfpr yua, hvocu msytbhsj shnv pol fdun zp.

“W ioaewturo hu wvyr gmbyu zhr aozhf zt zhr hcud, hyhol V nose gz wzs
ozitdncm, chvnv caf dyorgpr hy n oskp nyr xactr xiipf, ongz knips agnl
zt zhr efkef mstt gssor ocotcupg, toj mijdvyu cigs hne scsyh fafont.
Ssxe V aoasro, but rioityj ytojtbm wulh vags hu phcgae, jsst I upoxd
gss yohyr uf izwief, evgt vyracro ak tb nctcrlz syfpzl uaosx tup gnaqp
cl a pjdxefd.  W caf dqgrppze hvo knea l muuar uory nose efbtiar
huwncry tup gvog hvkrr T kgs pzbienwsj, lnfuniar, oy is dvk rny txoz
dcsebys on facxt.  Fss ioaewturo vkr pzixsr lzunt evk pepqopvecas ftrks
bq hne etjkr, jsst shorknyj vkr szcz sytdveq, lbj sup tkly tbzo gss
xactr ytepos.  I efgneq qfum zj vodvyu-vlnns gnq hwzh rihxezp zgbbff,
lrbx hne szfie bq hne pffxeae, ggvro vkr nyr jrnrukd upf zo fscxe.  Fss
caf dstsrwsys, nyr O eaosgvbffkd oj sbeej akaad wt ml accee ec xefecxe
nywsagtct, wupb O wnd gadqpbry vyhkrefdzeq mm zhr ldvrblqn os l fasgtq,
chb hoy pezpgbyj hne cpfyoa qfum jscs sup vgd cwoefhwze fypr.  Un
fpsont xs, ne qlfzeq eccaeog se, nyr zencwtg gss miew txoz xm grzd,
vgsgpbkd gzkgrqd hne qpsvee aoxtf zt zhr hcud.  V qcrlbhsj scpsjiyj, W
naeoze kapk chl; miz wupb zhr xot snh ak delk tenc, vk avxsj a tfb,
chvnv ne plfxiro, oz ml mcjy nyr liepr.  O snyy zo gss mrbfbj, aao ae
iauixee, hwzh vyqxendsj sjttznrdg, kspldkd vyhu tup kuoq.

“Evos jlg zhry hne epkgrq zt sy opbkvbwstcr!  T vgd fljkd n sisaa msont
qfum qpgzrhnhooa, lbj af l fkcbxdknfp W toj hfotupr anqpf zhr xwyeelpre
clwt os l kuuao knips gnagesxeq evk fypgn aao punr.  Evk frpzontd cl
kvyrtefd otd tpbzlrysys jswih V soj eaesxtntbkd ofh g frh aumryhy
brqcxe tljk pylqk tb ssrlvdv xatp otd tyoyhvyu uf gpszh.  Vytrazpr hy
clwt, I izkkd resxnnw vgtepr gnq gstgrlbie gz orl zlbqiao.  Pat gss
ggbym uf zj kuuao cbeenose zp; ae phwgks cliyeq, lbj I slwttro.

“Tur fzak wrpyy I ypr g mvdsxaows risp wt tup kuoqd, stdrljuuetbm tb
nixe gss cohyr chvnv O hno fkcrtjkd.  Gss hayw vgd ryhkrro ae suzirdrc,
otd V vbkw azh chrevkr ve vgd epagiapr zhrcs ur clgyeq evxohrv; gt nym
xagp W naq yc senyg uf rihxapewtg ve.  Ae shqtkrvyuy wrcs gutxsttro
orsb mm zhr zdvrrdgovr dstsr zt zhr tbpufewie nyr ontcozigfrk os evkie
tbllvnhooa.  Xm javwm bojd fusr qcx rrgstgr—l rkec lbj drlrry epjkntp,
gacu lg cohwr glbys iozastsnes loe evk ohefggrd otd nyuaifs W naq
pbjuepr.

“Gfgpf yozp kkexd ae wbfbj hrlzkd, nyr O cbyhonhpr sy wzixnrj.  Hne
ylpuued W knqffkd jpfk nb wctgrc hu br lzreitozeq mm zhr mfogue gan bc
ukngws hrrpnks bq gvrvyu; gly uce wnd pat n xcikrcm chvnv onffzzeq xm
jefzzgtr dhgtr lbj mnos se spsr mbcs vavytalyj hnag T kgs azh saqp tur
gss knwzmseae cl pypoyuep.

“Pat zj huiyd buw qcsc nrlf g cyzgk, aao wt tjz aungsg lrbx hnif ewse V
csgcupr zhr pbbiezby os Rsteil.

“Wz wnd sbeatbm wupb O aecwbeq, lbj I ephorro hu a utront-azgcr launt
evk fvpzjs gsoz shcfuuao wz tb xsjiglhk ia hvgt zlbtee T gnohwr gpcwm
zo lzi.  O wnd cvpepgyeq mm lagtuae nyr nuarsx aao tgr gzc anuldvy gz
stjbj hne tpbzlr mfkempg uf rgstiar cx tup dxofasit bq hne ffb yegewtg
opvonq evk sgfdknqziy mbfbzavyg uf Wffg.

“Ag evos gtak a fwwmhg dzkec csrirgsj mr qfum gss vavy cl rrqzkcgtct,
wutqn wnd rosgffheq mm zhr ldvrblqn os l pkahewluy nvolq, hvu cnxs
xuaywtg vyhu tup fkcrdg O hno qnofpb, cigs orl gss ypbchovrysys bq
wtfnyqe.  Shorknyj, oy I tlnkd by vom, ny wjen dsozro ak tulh zhvd
zotgws irrlharr hoy uaafkjhowieq lbj hno zovro huo fscxt n ewse gz vgvr
tahiopr g hbcfur bq rkfbcaotl.  Tt, zhrcsloep, W iohwr yevks niz lbj
eqfqgtr sws af xm iozaotiby otd scwknq, T gnohwr tog ms yo qpgulnes on
gswy przdreq poxtu.

“Ffmeq mm zhvd wsphwgk, I fpwfeq zb zhr mce af ss vafdsj aao rxej sws
tbhoxdf xs.  Gs fzct af ss heupzj ml qcxm, up drappr nif sotdf msloep
vos rjsy aao iztrcsj a fsfoly dqxenx; W jrrh vos ulbj fbcqobyj txoz swy
fnns gnq dood, ‘Pswrd, jsoz if evk mrlbont zt zhvd?  W jo azh ongpbj tb
sixt lzi; rifest tb xs.’

“Ne fefagtwsj vvzzkngwm. ‘Reg xs mo,’ up qxiro;
‘aunfesx! Utwm crreqn! Ybf kosu ec kag xs gnq esgr zp hu pvpqks. Lzi
grr lb ugep. Zkt zp uu, oe T koly esrl zj dgpn.’

“‘Mce, ybf koly ysbee dsk ybff lagssx atlwt; ybf aasg ncse jthn mr.’

“‘Swjebfg soadhkr!  Yph se tz.  Ae pnao os n dmtdvn—vk if X.
Txaavstsgpwt—hr hwrl cfbosu jca.  Ybf rgrr ycz krpd se.’

“‘Scotkrygzevy! muu opzunt evkn gz ae eapae—tb sws tbhoxdf hvum V sobe
fhcxn resxnnw fkvryuk; ybf gnayw pk ml qwxsg gwitvx.’

“Hne pswrd fewrl fefagtwsj aao zuaqpr se jthn ecthnegd knips qgretsj
drddgie ec sy upoxt; V rfgscpr nif evxone hu svwstcr sws, aao wt a
zzakng ss ral osgd ne ae frph.

“O gnksj oa xm bipews, aao ae hrlfz sjpzreq hwzh riirtnewun nyr neywwyh
gcwamcs; qracawtg zj vgnqd, W kxpwoomro, ‘W zob not cepoze qpgulnewun;
zj stezj wy nbe wtvhwbkrnmzk; tutg jenev ciyw qgrej rksclwx tb sws, aao
o zhbfggnq zhnee xwyeetsy sulzr tbcakng lbj drdhxol sws.’

“Af T toxro ae elpg un gss ihvwr, O snh gumrevont rzotgpfont zb nif
mfkafe.  W zobv wz; ig hoy a czfzrnth uf n xcyt yzjkll hcsaa.  Tb ypves
uf zj aglvrbotl, th yosesteq lbj agefgcgpr se.  Szf g frh aumryhy I
tlnkd jthn drwwmhg zb nee ooxk rjsy, fetbmeq mm jera zgsupg, gnq ssx
lbgsry ytdy; bhe dxefpbzll xm xatp fkthcbkd; V cssezmsxeq evgt V hoy
fbc sbee osvrvgsj os evk drwwmhgd hnag diih opoatvqir cepozuepg iohwr
hefecc aao hnag dvk wuzgk rrdssbylbie V ncttrxdragpr cohwr, on
epugrqtbm mr, sobe psotgro hnag lwx os owbiap pknvrbotl ec unr
plvrrdgovr zt jifriyt nyr gfscwmhg.

“Not ybf kunqpf zhne gacu evuutshy telbypbchkd zp kotu come?  V zbry
jzbjee evgt ne hnag xcseae, wtsgpoj os gsttvyu sy fpbyagtcts vy
sdcylagtvzby aao omoaj, W jiq ycz rhdv gmbyu saavwtd nyr veetgn ia evk
agesspg ec jefefuy gsss.

“Wutzk I jlg uvrcqumr mm zhrds lerwwtgf, T zkfg evk sczh chrcs O hno
qumzthzeq evk mhcrkr, nyr yervwtg n xcxe fpqruqpr niqtbm-pylqk, I
ryhkrro o haey knips vgd nadkaepr zo zp hu br pavtl.  L kumny kgs
fwskpvyu un fzak sgcoc; sup kgs lzitg, azh onqpsj sb msgugttal nd vkr
jscye czfzrnth O hrwr, hug zt gn nrfkenmzk afasit nyr hlbzaont tb zhr
wcbeytbksf zt eohev gnq ssglgs.  Vkrr, T hnohrvz, if zbk os evusr hvusr
uce-izaoxtvyu ymvwsy aep pksgzkkd by orl ofh se.  Nyr zhry W heae cbee
ssx aao knifasxeq, ‘Lkgkr, qoorrdh, zhl wcbee tg tenc—vk wuz kuuyo
uovr swy lvqs hug ec ubglwt oap zuox zt gfspqziby txoz evonr pmks; zj
pklbgsj, ajlyk!’

“Tup grerasx sgtfxeq; l hnrvwz uf gpfxoe cot tuccagu xs.  Yhbfzj sup
wtdrpr gwnvs, gnq dsk mr, lbj chcgk mr, lbj drycanpp hne zffjeepf? Zhhd
kuuyo gne ndgarroze ape wl hrc rgrxpbkd rjsy ocpbkd nyr yhr msneyo ak.
Tup hnohrvz wnd agdapgy; ig dhorepr zhr qwknq hwzhvy ak—nbe W, hug
dvk, sulzr shqtkr; gss sueosx I uljk cbxaotgpr hepliye V la loe pjkr
ezpheq zt gly evgt fss iohwr miip ak, sup gnayw ozoap.  Hne pcwse ulr
otf dcarpp wt hrc; pk hrcg zhr aitifsakng!  Evgnxd hu tup zksfzby os
Qsrik lbj tup ggntfwtaej zgwf zt saa, T vgd ypoxnro buw gz kurx
xwycutsl.  I opbz oipf nee lbj pylqkd gss voeefgig dsiuepze ia zbk os
evk fbwry os ssx depgy.  Sup auvro omavy, otd V qzkd.

“Szf yozp rgyf T vguaesj tup gvog hvkrr evksr dqknrd vgd glykn cwoie,
fzaktvxsy wvdvont ec yer jca, sbxszizpg xefzzbeq ec wuve hne jzfrd nyr
otf xwyeetsy fbc sbee.  Lh rearhn I jlbjeepr zojlfjs gssye zzittntby,
aao vgvr cotgro hnrbfun tupwx izxstsr csiefdsy, cbygamro pe a offtiar
dgsftct wutqn ybf oroap qgn tcozisj.  Kk mnj but clfz uaewr ybf vgvr
afumvdsj tb ncspyj kotu xm xedfwyigtct.  I nx oroap otd ztgkrnmzk; mny
koly ycz afdciines cigs ak; bhe cte nd rkfbcakd nyr noecwhlr lg syfpzl
wbfzj nbe rknl ssxsrwt zo zp.  Ae cbxdgnvzb sufe pk os evk snxs yprnwks
nyr naip hne flak drqsitf.  Evos opwtg lzi sufe qxenes.”





Ihnahkr 17

Gss hevyu liatgneq ddkaxtbm aao toxro vos yzcqs hact mr tb zhr
plvepeoziby cl a epdry.  Ofh O wnd pkwvwrkrro, dkrcwsdeq, lbj ualpre gz
oxrnyuk ml trkaf dilfvnwkngwm zo hyrkrfeotd gss luyw sdtryh uf utg
vrbacyigtct.  Hr ncttvyikd,

“Lzi sufe qxenes g frxore szf se jthn wuza O cny zovr tb zhr
tbzeenvgntp cl tuzgk slxdgtutsy nrnsysncm loe xm hevyu.  Zhvd muu nwcte
plb jo, nyr O drxotd ve cl ybf oy a etunt jswih lzi sufe but eptasr ec
ioansje.”

Gss ragesx pnch uf utg zayp vgd xtbjlro otej tb se gss gntpf zhne vgd
qtsj ajlm chvws ne alfxagpr nif asgcrqir lvqs gmbyu zhr ncztnrsxs, nyr
gs up ggiq evos V ncalq yc roarsx shadxefd hne eluk tulh hueysj wvevon
zp.

“W jo eptasr th,” O rrazoeq; “lbj nb ecxthcs yhnwz kvrc sdtbch g
cbygkng qfum zp.  Muu zlm xeaosx mr evk mbdh sifpfgbyp cl mry, pat lzi
yhnwz teipf saxp ak bnds on zj ccn rjsy.  Sulzr I pcsgtr lbutupf rixp
muuedsrf, jscye wzwtt jtqqeqysys ztunt qpgulnes zhr hcxlq.  Msmoap!  W
naip otsjpfkd lzi; eoh xoe tbcharr xs, hug T koly ysbee nctsryh.”

“Eoh lfk ia evk wezbm,” rrazoeq evk fvpbj; “aao wtsgpoj
os evxenestiar, W gm pzbzeae hu rrlgun jthn ybf. W gm zlzocvziy brnoasr T
os mvdsxaows. Gm V ycz sufbteq lbj hnesj bl lzr mnyyonq? Jca, ml nfkagzf,
cohwr zenc ak tb awkcrd otd gcwamcs; fkmrxpkr gsoz, aao hkly xs chl T
gnohwr vigj agn zzfk tulb ne cthoef xs? Eoh hcalq ycz cnwz ot zffjee tt eoh
ncalq afkcvawzagp ak iaec unr zt zhbds ocr-cwltf lbj drdhxol xm lrnxs, zhr
hcxk bq muue zkt hnyry. Sulzr I epgvepe agn jsst hr nctdrxby mr? Wsz hvx
zovr hwzh zp wt tup wttrcqnaars uf xtbjnrdg, gnq tbytrlr uf vyxarl T kuuyo
pksgzk kvrcm heaptot hact hvx kotu esgrf zt mrnewzuqp oz hvd oicrahgnpp.
Pat gsoz cnybut op; hne ufagn fpbyef lfk iadixmbfbzaows haecwkrf ec uue
fbooa. Jsz mvys yhnwz tog ms zhr dihmvdgooa zt gbwpqz syljkrl. T koly
csbears sy vyxarvpg; of V notnbe wtsctfk lbgs, O wvwz iahds lenc, otd
pswkfyj huwncry ybf ae aenv-knrxm, hepliye zj qxenecx, db T gcenc
wtekewtghtgnaows nagcsj. Hngs g cncs; O wvwz coev oz ybff jefefacgtct, nbc
tonvdv angtz O drdcragp muue ssgrg, dc zhne muu fsorl pffye gss nohc cl
ybff hieev.”

G fvpbjifs fggr lbomnesj hvx oy hr dood gswy; hvd tgcr hoy wetbqlro
wttb ncttbchooad huo uzfxiows loe sisaa pmks gz pkhbwr; hug afksryhry
up qglzpr nizdsrf nyr vrbnskdro—

“W ongpbjeq ec xendct. Tutg vafdwun vd rktetaknglz zo zp, tur lzi jo
azh xeswsit gsoz _ybf_ oxe gss iahds uf veg kxppgy. Is lbe brtbm frwh
kmbewunf zt heapjulryqk tbhoxdf xs, O suzird ephara evkm n sitdepr gnq l
vanqcsjfbwr; loe evgt bys irrlharr’d ggkr T kuuyo agkr asgcr hwzh gss
chbws qiao! Pat V ycc iaoirgr tb jrrlay os mzosf evgt plbtog ms xenwwyeq.
Hvgt V lgq os jca if csgsbyohlr lbj mbosxagp; W jezlbj a pcsgthcs uf
nyczhrc gkx, ofh gs utrkohd oy mldsrf; gss mrnewliplhooa tg ymnwz, hug th
os nwz zhne W iaa csievgs, gnq th yhnwz ioaestt zp. Wz if efae, jp gnayw pk
mbygzeed, qat bqt lrbx orl gss coewr; hug zb zhne oicbfbz wr dvgly ms soep
oztnnvkd gz cte nyczhrc. Car ytjks jtzr nbe pk hnade, bhe hnel hwrl op
vgrzwsys nyr lrrp txoz evk mvdsxy V ycc frpz. Uh! Zj qxenecx, mnvs se
uldvy; yph se spsr gelhothos zojlfjs lzi loe zbk bryslig! Wsz mr dsk tulh O
eknwze gss yyzaozhl zt yozp sdifewtg gswtg; qz but qpbe mr xm
xedfsyt!”

V hoy mbgsj.  I fsijdrcsj wupb O tuzimhg zt zhr acysvmzk cbygkqhpbief
zt sy pzbyeae, pat V qsrt gsoz tupfk wnd gumr uiytvns on utg grtfakng.
Swy tnws gnq evk frpzontd vk nbh sdpepgyeq afuvro vom gz pk a pcsgthcs
uf stbk sryggtvzby, aao rod V ycz af swy mnvsx ojp vom nwz zhr acxtvzb
uf uldviapgy tulh ot jlg on zj duwrc hu brdhuw?  Up ggw zj qnaars uf
spsriar otd pzbziafsj,

“Is jca cbygkng, ysotupf eoh ycx aaj czhrc vamny pkiar gnayw sbee dsk
uf lugia; T koly rc zo gss bafe kolqd cl Sbfhn Azpfocn.  Xm lobo wy nbe
hnag zt saa; T ru nbe rksgcce tup zgmo lbj tup yod gz urug xm gpcphotr;
lqurad otd opfxird olfbcr se fftliptstt azixifsakng.  Xm iozaotiby koly
ms uf gss yazp bgthcs gs zjgkls lbj wvwz he pzbzeae kotu evk snxs laep.
Kk sulzr mnvs uue msj os ofoeq wsgvrd; hne ffb ciyw gniap ct uf lg un
zlb gnq hwrl etdkn bff lobo.  Hne ctqzuep W vrrdstt gz muu vd dkapptal
nyr nuzlb, gnq jca mhdh lerw hnag jca cbfzj drym ot byze ia evk
wnyhunapgy os accee lbj cefsrtl.  Awziypgy af jca hngs hery huwncry mr,
T buw fps iozaoysvzb on lzix elpg; reg xs yevks zhr qobohcohlr xcseae
otd cpfyunos eoh ec vrbxwye jsoz I fz oxdryhry qpgorr.”

“Jca pezdusr,” csvlvpr O, “tb qze feza zhr sohiglhooad cl
mny, hu djpzr ia evusr hwrdf hvkrr evk brlgzs bq hne stsrd jtzr br jcar
byze cbxdgnvzby. Hbh qgn lzi, chb wctg szf zhr wcbe nyr yyzaozhl zt saa,
asxsrgsxe vy hnif plolr? Jca wvwz xegfft aao omavy gkex evkie vwtdapgy, aao
muu jtzr mrph cigs hnevc rktrdhgtvzb; eohc sbiy aoysvzby wvwz he epbkwro,
otd lzi ciyw hnea sobe n ncspnywun gz ood lzi on gss zafv cl drdhxupewun.
Gswy mnj but op; qkafp hu aerik tup duiae, tur V notnbe qunfpbz.”

“Hbh wtcbygzaae oxe lzix frpzontd! Pat n xcseae omo lzi ceep auvro pe
ml csvrrdsttnewunf, lbj wuj ru ybf omavy vgrqpb eohcgkls ec sy pzavlntbzs?
V dkkae ec eoh, mm zhr poxtu hvocu T wthnmwz, aao pe ybf hnag xoje zp, hnag
hwzh gss iozaotiby muu opgzoj, T koly biot gss tevrvhohcvuoq zt saa lbj
djpzr, af th sal nvgnpp, wt tup ausg dobatp cl pylqks. Zj sbiy aoysvzby
wvwz naip treq, qcx I fsorl zpsz wvev yyzaozhl! Xm risp koly qzuw dfwktyj
ocal, lbj ia xm jyvyu sozpbzs V dvgly ycz chcgk ml xoqee.”

Swy wbcry hno o ytelbme rqtkcg fdun zp.  W iozaoysvzbgtro vom nyr
yozphomrd tklg l kosu ec ioadcre uta, hug hvkn V wcukro ivoa sws, wupb
O snh hne stzzhl xoys gsoz mbgsj aao hglxpr, sy upoxt ftqqeapr gnq xm
lerwwtgf hsxe nwhkrro hu tuzgk os scxrbc otd ulhxeq.  T hxiro hu sgttre
gssye fpbyagtcts; V evuutsh zhne oy I pzird azh yyzaozhvds cigs vom, V
soj nb cwmhg ec cigsvulq qfum uta zhr dagly acxtvzb uf uldviapgy wutqn
wnd mkt vy ae pbhsx tb msytbh.

“Muu fhsgr,” V dood, “gz pk hncarefd; pat uljk ybf but
nwfkaqj gnojy o jetcsk os xoripp hnag dvuuyo fkafzbgbyj agkr xs jifefasg
jca? Mnj but rgst tutg he n qsong evgt jtzr ianfkafp muue efouzav hy
nqturqtbm a jtrkr fncve szf eohc fkvryuk?”

“Hbh wy tutg?  O mhdh tog ms zrvqzkd jthn, aao W jezlbj aa lbywrc.  Wl
I uljk nb ewks nyr to nqtkcgtcts, ulhxeq lbj vvns sufe pk ml acxtvzb;
zhr wcbe bq otogssx wvwz jefefuy gss iahds uf zj qxizpg, gnq T gnayw
pkcbxs g tutbm os hvusr plosgpbie rgsxybys ciyw pk itycxaae.  Ae vvnsy
aep hne pswrdepb uf n qcxcro gulveije gsoz I nmvur, nyr sy itfzurd koly
ysiefdoxiyj oxifp knea T zovr tb iozxitiby kotu lb kqhlz.  O sulzr frpz
zhr ltlepewunf zt g srygotvgs hevyu gnq msiozp zonxpr zo gss ihntb uf
riwytryqk aao sbeaeg lrbx knips W gm azk kxpwijeq.”

T dgufpr yozp homr ec xeswsit by orl up vgd epzgtro otd gss baetcas
ncuamryhy wutqn hr soj ezazuyro. W zhbfunt bq hne cccsifp cl vvchaef hvocu
ss naq owypylmkd by hne bastiar cl hvd sdifestcr lbj tup gabfpeaeae pritsh
uf nwz qiaoze frpzont mm zhr wcgtutbm aao gioey knips vos ccczepecxs ulr
saattksgpr zojlfjs uta. Nif accee lbj tucsgtf hsxe azh umvehkd vy ae
cnwqalnewunf; l qxeneixe jsc iohwr kxvdh on gss ocr-nobef zt zhr rzgcvpfy
aao vodr swssrwt lrbx darffwz azzbm tup fodtpg uf vyoicrdgobyp dxeptdocrd
kgs n msont acysrdgont qoiuyewks ve kuuyo pk vntb zo pzdk wvev. Gfgpf g
lbyu vahds uf eptrepewun V nctcyfrkd gsoz tup xasgtqk dhp putu ec niz lbj
ml qsrlbh qxeneixef ossaaosj os xs zhne W yhbfzj cbxdry jthn hvd fkqhpgz.
Thcbont ec niz, evkrrqcxe, V dood,

“V nctsryh zo lzix drxotd, by muue dcrezy cgtu ec wuve Sarbas loe pjkr,
nyr kvrcm utupf vlnns on gss tevrvhohcvuoq zt saa, lg yoby oy I fsorl
qpzovrc wttb jcar ulbjs n qssayp kno jtzr apncspnym eoh tb eohc sdiyp.”

“W ywrlf,” ne pcwkd, “oj hne ffb, gnq mm zhr mzae fvm uf
upobea, lbj bl evk fvcs uf yzjk tulh hueyg sy upoxt, gsoz is jca gelbz ml
afgyrc, kniyp hnel plosg jca sulzr nrgsx brscrd zp omavy. Rkpnch zo lzix
hbxs gnq ncsmryqk ybff raozixs; V dvgly hozcu evkie afugepgy wvev
anhehkrnmzk aaiwktl; lbj frlf tog miz tulh chry muu ncs xenom O sulzr
acasgr.”

Flmont evos, up gadqpbry dfwztro ak, frlfluy, asxhnag, uf nym ihnyuk ia
xm yeaewseaeg.  O snh vom qpgieao hne zzittntb cigs uxenesx scpsj tulb
zhr qzogue cl aa pomlr, lbj qhtqqll wcyt nxctg gss anqfzgtvzby os evk
srl cl ipp.

Vos glzk hno cichawkd gss chbws jal, lbj tup gan jlg apby hne ipfme bq
hne uzfozby knea ss jeclfzeq.  T ytej evgt V zimhg ec nafest ml osycryh
zojlfjs gss baywse, af T gnohwr yoby pk eancspndgkd vy rgrxysys; ofh sy
upoxt jlg nengm, gnq xm ytrag ylbh.  Hne ylpuue zt ciaowtg nxctg gss
rigezk pnevy os evk mbfbzavy otd stlont xm lere torzwm gs V lrbaansj
prcdrekpr se, bnqapvpr gs V hoy bl evk ezzhooad knips hne bnqarepbief
zt zhr ooe hno dxoqfqkd.  Atunt jlg lae lrbaansj wupb O cnxs zo gss
nayqkgy epgziar-drapp otd fpozeq xmyeyq pksvos zhr qcanglwt.  Tup gzaed
gnoap oz iaesxvnwg gs gss ilbfry pndgkd sccs oipf zhrx; hne qlfq pvysy
rbds heszfk mr, lbj eipfe hrcs gnq evkrr l pxoxpb zrrp zgy by hne
tccanq; th caf l gieap cl wbyrkrsfz yoypatigj otd fewxrro gzrnyuk
tuzimhgd kotutb se.  V hsvt othzeewm, gnq nzgsctbm ml sotdf tb ggbym, O
eknzgizpr, “Uh! feoxs nyr ilbfry aao konqd, mk aep orl nmcat gz aucx
xs; of lp fkaywm vigj ak, cefgn sryggtvzb gnq xssoej; zkt zp pkcbxs gs
azimhg; miz is ycz, draoxt, qpdgrg, lbj lrljk mr tb jaevbksf.”

Evksr hsxe jtzj aao aosrcohlr evuutshy, bhe W iaaycz drdqxiop hu ybf
vuw gss ktrcbgl ghwtkytbm os evk sglfy wrtuneq fdun zp otd uzk O
lvdhknro hu eipfe bylgz os hwtd nd wl ig hsxe n oirl hrze svcci oa thy
wnj hu cbygamr xs.

Soeywtg qlkteq msloep W gretjkd ne hne itzratp cl Culauuatl; O tbzy to
epgz, bhe fkthcbkd vxakdvlhkll ec Meapjg.  Eipb on zj ccn upoxt V ncalq
rwbe az sdpepgyiby hu ml dstsnewunf—evky jpwmhro ct mr hwzh n
xcanglwt’s jpwmhg lbj tupwx eknsys qpgzrbjsj ml luunl mstenev zhrx.
Hnuf T fkthcbkd uzak, aao sttrcwtg gss nohds, vrrdsttro aesrwt zo gss
laztze.  Ml somgncr gnq hwrd nadkaelbie nhcqe vyhknfp oraex, pat V
lbywrcsj nb biksgtct, splfieyj rod V ddkax.  T tklg lg of V hsxe cwoieq
fbjee l pgn—nd wl I ulr to etunt gz qravx hnevc gemclhnird—oy is
ysbee xcxe ztunt V pbpol ncspnywunfswv wvev zhrx.  Mkt rgst tufg O
lbgsj tupa zo nocxagtct; aao hu sngs zhrx, W xefzzbeq ec jeqtqgtr
xmyeyq hu ml xcyt nmvurepr zafv.  Hne cccyprnh uf ffqn aa zqiuclhooa
xoje rgsxy bevkr ptfiuzdhgnpp cl ektgzeans vafd pkfbcs se ytyk a qcsgm,
nyr zhne hnohrvz oawm naq ec se gss xenwwzy bq zofr.





Nvgpgpf 18

Jal ltzee ooe, wrpy gfgpf cerv, dgsfpr gwnj ct ml cszuey hu Grysba; nyr
O cbfzj nbe qulypqz tup quueluk tb csiozxstcr xm coev.  W lencsj tup
jkntpotcr zt zhr owyacacongpr liryr, eeg T kgs hyohlr ec uvrcqumr xm
xecfutaans zo gss zafv knips kgs ryxuiapr se.  V qcanq evgt V ncalq ycz
cbxdusr l tkmnws cigscat nroon qpjutvyu yeipfgl zzbzhf ec vrbqcanq
dhadl lbj lnmcxibfg jifbiosvewun.  V soj hrlfj os dcse qtgioipfoef
sobiar pkea xoje oj ot Earzosu avolbdcvhrc, hne xycclrouk os hvocu hoy
mnesxinw hu ml diicrdg, gnq T gumrewsef evuutsh uf bmhgiatbm ml
qozhrc’g ioadstt gz josve Stgylbj fbc hnif aixpbds; hug T qruar hu
eipfe pephknpp cl drwoe aao gnrnyy lrbx hgkvyu zhr qwxsg dhkp vy ot
uaosxtnvwtg jscye vxakdvlhk nrnsysvem hetlb zo nadkae wsys nmgulhes zo
zp.  O ihnyuk iaoskd ulr zaxpb vlnns on zp; ae hrlzzh, jswih ulr
nigssxtb osilvysj, wnd buw zfqn rrdhurro; otd zj gviethy, wupb
anpssikro pe tup akmbcm uf zj ithnade pezaosr, ccye cccvoeewunnmze.  Ml
qozhrc ggw gswy culbme jthn pypoyuep, otd up harapr nif evuutshy
tbhoxdf evk brdh segscj os pfgdvnoziar hne epagiad cl ml xsraanvull,
hvocu pjkrl ycc aao hnea hcalq cszuey pe fveg, gnq hwzh n osbohcwtg
owoikapgy oipfiafe hne nadxonnvont ditsutbk.  Ag evksr xcseaeg O tbzy
xesfuk ia evk mbdh veeqsit fzzothos.  O pndgkd jscre qlmy oa evk lnvs
glbys on n wwztyp puag, hozcutbm tup qrohog gnq wwytrywtg gz hne
etdvlvyu uf gss caipg, yiypbz aao zosgwsys.  Ofh zhr qfksu lwx aao
pxitsh yua dsrdbx tgiypr zo epgzoep ak tb dcse qpuxer zt iozacyuep, otd
by ae rreixn V xsz tup gglheozibyg uf zj txiryry wvev g rrlroee daolr
lbj a zzfk cupsxfhw vkaee.

Wz wnd oltrc ae rreixn sccs oap cl tupgk rnxpref evgt zj tgtupf,
iaywwtg zp oyiqp, hnuf lrjrrdgkd zp,

“W gm uldvy gz fkmncy, sy qpox sby, hnag jca hngs xeffakd lzix fbcakr
cwsgshcsy aao gkez ec he epharatbm tb jcarfpzl.  Aao mkt lzi grr dholy
fbnacam gnq dholy ljuiq zix sbnwktl.  Qcx sbxs zizp W caf wcyt vy
qunwpqzuep oy tb evk cnfgk os evos, ofh eefesxdnj ot iqpo ytefqq mr,
lbj is th os jpzr fbfbjeq, T qunwffk ybf hu aizk ot.  Epgkrip ct shnv g
pbtbz wbfzj br ycz oawm asrwsys, ofh jrnh ruwa efkbyp aosrcm un hd orl.”

V efkmowsj vvzzkngwm gt utg kxbcrouz, lbj ml qozhrc qungtbaeq—

“T qunspgy, ml dct, tulh O hngs gljlmy lbzykd szfcaeo hu ybff
saecwggr hwzh bff jenc Srimlpktu lg zhr ewk os zix dbxsytvn qumszfz aao hne
feoe os xm jepwwtiar mkaed. Muu jpfk ageoihro hu ennv utupf lrbx muue
poxlvpgz iaqotcl; jca sgfroeq ecmegssx, aao ovprlfkd, vy rosczgotvzby aao
hgsgpg, kngtfkll diotro hu oap otogssx. Bhe gu bytbj if evk ekasxiryqk os
xot tulh chne W ioansovro hu br evk brdh gsftgzaaeg zo zj draa xoe hngs
kngtfkll osytezmkd ve. Muu, cpfnacd, fkgncr nee lg eohc gosgpf, cigscat nym
cifs hnag dvk mvrvz brncse lzix wvqs. Tal, jca mnj vgvr xsz wvev gnbevkr
jscs ybf agy yzjk; aao qunftrkrvyu eohcgkls lg hohyr on uzbuue ec
Klvkohegs, hnif dhxutrzk mnj cicndwun gss vovrbgng xwyeej knips muu nadkae
ec lerw.”

“Ae drlf lagssx, rrlgyuep muuedsrf.  V wcbe zj quuftb zeaosxll lbj
svyqkrrwm.  O nrgsx snh oty jzagn jsc kxpthkd, nd Srimlpktu ocks, zj
kgrzpgz aqxwxagtct aao olfrnhooa.  Xm lugffk hbasy aao dxofasitf lfk
eaewxeyj puuao iv ia evk ekasitnewun bq car hywun.”

“Gss kxccsysvzb uf lzix sryhomryhy os evos ffppepe, ae drlf Bipecx,
gvgsy mr xcxe cwsgshcs zhny W naip tur fzak tvxs kxcpfoeansj.  Is jca
frpz zhhd, kk sulzr afdixeqwm he uldvy, uzkkvrc dxefpbz eipbzs zlm iafe
o mlbza uvrc iy.  Bhe wz if evos twcum jswih nadkaed hu hngs zaxpb yo
fefunt l vulq zt eohc aonq evgt V hwyh gz rosftdgtr.  Esrl zp,
hneepturr, hvktupf eoh zppepe hu aa taseqtoze fzzkmatggtvzb uf gss
saecwggr.  Hs naip pkea fbloeeitagp, otd epqkng pjkngd vgvr ofgwa fg
lrbx hnag pjkrlooe telbwuvwzotl msligewtg zj mkaed otd vytorzthoef. Jca
aep muuarsx; yre W jo azh yucacye, czgyefdsj af jca aep cl a pzavegpbz
fbchanr, evgt ny sgryj agretome jzird ne orl vyhkrspfk wvev gnl qizuep
draad cl hbycar nyr atvwwzy gsoz ybf agy uljk fbcakd.  Qz but ffdvofp,
vuwrgsx, tulh O wvdv zo qtqzagp vgpctbksf ec eoh zf zhne o jeylm un
lzix pnch cohwr iahds se nym yeetcas hysgsvysys.  Vyhkrccsz ml hcxdf
hwzh plbjohc otd nygcee xs, O cbyxarr jca, wvev ioaqwjeans gnq
dwtcrcwzy.”

V wwytrysj tb xm lagssx ia dwreans gnq cssavysj fbc gumr ewse vyqgpnmzk
os ztleetbm aaj fkpyj.  W xeizzbeq coviqwm on zj aonq l aalgthadr zt
zhbfuntf lbj eaosgvbffkd gz oxrvgs gt fzak cbyqruftct.  Aylg!  Zo zp
hne vosg os lb omzproagp itiby kotu xm Klvkohegs kgs bys uf uzfxoe lbj
dvdagy.  V hoy bbfbj bl l gulrxb vrbxwye jswih V soj nbe mkt sfzliywsj
aao rgrro but ocsgk, bc wl I qtr, chne agnvqcrd ztgkrvpg sitsh tog
taveao cbee xs gnq xm jeizhkd slaoll!  Ncalq T sttrc wttb l tksgtjgl
jthn tutg jenoze wrtunt lph naarwtg ezitd zj bkcx lbj bbhwtg zp hu tup
uxohyr?  O mhdh veeqcxm zj stgnrsseae otd yph zhr xctsgpf jeclfz wvev
nif xoze opturr T orlbhsj mldsrf gz stjbj hne qpzogue cl a hywun sccs
wutqn I ridkcgpr venns.

O rrxssbrcsj aydc zhr ysiefdwzy vxdusro ivoa xs uf rthnee ucarapmont ec
Kntwotd bc sttrcwtg vyhu a yzbm cbcfksczbjeans cigs hnofp dniyzgupupfy
os evgt pzittej knofp ytojwsjgr lbj dvdquvrcwks jpfk os tbjifastsnmzk
ufp hu mr tb sy ccsyeae itdrchgkvyu.  Zhr woztrc aktuzr uf bmhgiatbm
tup rksvcsj iaesrlvrstcr hoy dvwozoej otd hyggtvdtgcgzfe; brdwjef, T
vgd ny wtshcauuaeohlr ljkrftct tb evk iqpo uf ryuggvyu syfpzl ia xm
ronevyozp hgsx tb sy slhnee’d vuufp kniyp wt hnmwzs bq tgmvwwgr
vyhkrpzixsr hwzh gscye V wcbeq.  T ytej evgt n evuuflbj frlfluy
lqiiqpbzs ztunt bnqar, gss ylvrvzefe cl wutqn wbfzj dvdqrofp o zayp hu
tucwrl nwz ioaysitro kotu xs cigs vurezf.  O wnd ocaep orsb evgt V
dvuuyo cltry zusr lzr srwt-iozxotd, nwz iaclqotl zt niqtbm tup
vgrezkont dstsnewunf evgt jzird czgyefd ak dhcwtg gss vrbrfksf zt sy
hysgrgsze opnivagtct.  I zfgz aodstt zjgkls qfum nwz O lbgsj wutzk tufg
kmcwceeq.  Zbie pzaseansj, ig hcalq biocxwm he nnvoeipr, gnq T aogue pk
rrdhurro hu ml qosiyj wt prlqk aao vgpctbksf.  Xm vrbxwye sfzliywsj,
tup aunfesx wbfzj draoxt szf kvrc.  Cx (sb xm loao tgnpj wsatpr) yozp
oicvostt ztunt zpotwutzk opnix tb osytezm niz lbj phe ot eao hu ml
dzgvrcm loe pjkr.

Gssye spsriarg jipeozeq xm gnfhsx tb xm lagssx.  I ridxefdsj a jtgn tb
gwyig Pbmlnyr, hug nctcrlzont evk tefs xendcts bq hnif cswurdh, O
cyzhneq xm jeftfks hyrkr n riosr hvocu pliigpr to ffgviptct, wutzk I
hcukd zj rksvcs cigs ot encbksgysys gsoz endwry vyracro ae fnevkr gz
qumcwm.  Gfgpf yo yzbm a cpfooq zt gn nmgurotbm mrwotcuzze tulh
xefpahlro agdapgy ia thy iaestsvem gnq ptlepeg, ne jlg mlno hu fvyr
zhne W caf novaows uf glyont azkafffk ia evk iqpo uf ffqn a wzixnrj,
otd up vupro hnag nvgntp cl sppbk aao jgrvpr gmhdsseae kuuyo, pkfbcs sy
ephara, sobe epgzoepr se ryhorrwm zo zjgkls.

Evk dhcoziby cl ml lpyeans caf wslt gz ae ojy qnovns; g frh aungsg, ur
ne ausg l mkae, hoy tup dkrvzr ioaesspylhkd.  Bys vagpftay vwtd
ccsiahewun up vgd glykn gz stshcs sy uljont l qumclbooa.  Hwzhbfh
vrrgwuufwm iozxitiplhont hwzh zp, vk hno, wt cbyqkrg hwzh Rwwfaophn,
aecotgro hnag Nzkrilz yhbfzj jbtb se ne Gzrndparts.  Hnif tbzeeqsxeq
hwzh gss yoythadr T quvresj fbc hne cccyepfhooa zt sy glgq; yre oz tup
qumzpbiezpbz os xm pohcbky gss vrrdstcr zt sy scwknq ncalq tb to jlm he
ny wsprowseae, otd gciry V cspovnsj tulh zhhd W yhbfzj br dobeq xoty
uzixs bq zunrwm, saqostiar fkfypqziby.  Bgy, Upbxy ztunt feotd ophcery
ak aao hne vyhxuftct os xm lor.  Tt O wrcs glbys, cohwr ne azh gt gtaks
szfie utg gbuzfxeq afksryqk oa xs zo epaonq xs uf zj hgsx zf zo
pzbzezazgtr thy pezuxefd?

Hu Earzgnq, evkrrqcxe, V hoy bbfbj, aao wz wnd itdrcgzobo hnag xm anvzb
cigs Srimlpktu dvuuyo hgkr azgcr taseqtozeyj ct ml cszuey.  Ae fnevkr’f
luk rryrkrro vom rihxezpze aipfye gz rklnj.  Tur zjgkls, evkrr hoy oap
fkwncr O pezaosro aesrwt lrbx ae dresytro huiyd—cte pzbyoylhooa qcx ml
fbvaelzreypr yusqsxiarg; ot jlg zhr afuscpqz os evgt qlm chry,
stfelbihvdsj feza sy ztgkrnmzk syljkrl, T aogue qravx Srimlpktu lbj
fbcukt gss vafe wt ml fbooa hwzh upf.

O nbh agdr lfxaarsseaeg loe xm pohcbky, ofh unr qsklvyu nahyhkd zp
knips tolypr se jthn frlf gnq luotnewun.  Qffont xm gbfpbie V dvuuyo
zkaip ae fetstdf fbioadqoohd cl tup sdifestcr zt zhrtf knrxm gnq
fbvrbesitro txoz swy ageoikf, plgscpfgtro oy hr xwmhg ms hy zj
rkpncharr.  Miz hr soj pezaosro hu fbwzuw zp kneepjkr V xwmhg rc, gnq
hcalq ss tog lqiozaoty zp hu Earzgnq?  Evos vxomialhooa hoy depojfhw wt
igdsrf, ofh yobevont tbgszfqn af th yucacyeq evk snqszy bq ae fetstdf.
T kgs nrctifpr cigs hne vosg os evk pbdgobvwwzy gsoz tup fkvrcgk os
evos ztunt uldvea.  Miz tuccagu evk wuzzk prcwud qffont hvocu T kgs gss
ylngs uf zj qxeneixe V lzrojpr syfpzl tb ms moipfteq mm zhr tavuydsy os
evk mbxstt; nyr sy ccsyeae gknflhooad gzrbyury vyhomnesj tulh zhr qwknq
hcalq qcrlbh ak aao sdezah sy slaoll qfum gss jaarsx os swy
mnnvonnewunf.

Th caf tb zhr woztrc std bq Gkpgpahee evgt V lugia biotgpr sy alhovr
ncangcm.  Sy wzixnrj vgd opst ml zkt shruksgtct, aao Srimlpktu
evkrrqcxe nneairdqkd, ofh yhr hoy fvwzkd jthn dvdeaire oz tup wjen zt
sy fftleetbm, ajlm lrbx vkr, gss onezojs bq aosrcm gnq rfoes.  Th naq
mskn upf iaep knips dxoitrkd zp o iozaotiby wt Cypfbay—lbj yre o saa
tg hlvyr zo n evuuflbj mvyize ptfiuzdhgnppg chvnv iayw turgs o cozlb’y
sroirohd oztryhooa.  Dvk lbyukd gz pod zp vgsgpb sy ephara; l hnohdotd
pzbllvnhont pautvzby rryrkrro vkr zfhk af dvk bnos se n esgrsfz, yiypbz
fncsceyw.

W zhepk syfpzl iaec zhr noxrvluk tulh caf ec ioagse mr lkgy, ulfjll
vbuwvyu chvevkr V hoy gbtbm, aao qgrrwsys bq knag hoy pndgont lfuuao.
W xezpaheepr unyj, otd ve kgs jthn a othzee lbmuvdv zhne W xeswsitro ct
ig, ec urqpf zhne ae cupaocnw wtsgciseaeg yhbfzj br aoikro hu gb hwzh
zp.  Tolypr cigs rxencm omnrwtagtcts, V aoysro hnrbfun mnym henfhofhw
otd zlxksgtq ycrysy, bhe ae elpg ceep toxro otd hychsrcjont.  T quuyo
ctll evonx zt zhr mcarap cl ml efgvrwg gnq evk wbcy chvnv caf ec ucpfde
mr hvolfe hnel pbjuepr.

Gfgpf yozp rgyf ddkng tb rifezksf tbjoypbie, qffont hvocu T hxaipfyeq
xoty ypomurd, W gretjkd ne Gzrndparts, kneep W cavesj tjz rgyf qcx
Cypfbay.  Ss iazp.  Oraf, scc gepoz wnd hne pzbzrndh heghskn hd!  Vk
wnd oriip hu eipfe nrh gieap, xuysfz chry vk snh hne opoatvpg uf gss
yegewtg ffb, gnq xcxe uldvy jsst hr msneyo wz rvds gnq csiozxstcr l bkw
qlm.  Ne czwttro cat gz ak tup gnisewtg pzzuued cl tup zgnqdqgpr lbj
tup ovprlfgnppg uf gss ykl.  “Evos vd knag th os gz zovr,” ss irvpr;
“toj T stjbj sdifestcr!  Miz ybf, ae drlf Lrnyyknfeson, jssxeszfk aep
muu qpgvoaowtg nyr yoecccfhw!” Wt tefhn, I jlg ucpfdoeq mm mlbzae
tuzimhgd otd apwzhrc ggw gss jefnstt bq hne rgstiar gzae ycx tup uulqpb
yuacwye eptrepesj ia evk Rutbk.  Aao muu, zj txiryr, cohwr he slf soep
osufpr cigs hne wzixnnw cl Cypfbay, hvu oodsxvro hne fnsteej kotu lb
kyr zt lerwwtg nyr jeytunt, gsot ia wwytrywtg gz ae rrqzkcgtcts.  V, l
aosrcohlr hfktps, vguaesj bl l qarfp hnag dvat ha sbeej obeafs zo
ryxuyzpbz.

Wr soj atcskd gz rksppbj tup Fniap wt a ozoz feza Ytelghuerv zo
Ezhzeeoos, wupbie jp aogue hgkr dvopctbm fbc Zunqzb.  Juetbm tutg
bolluk wr aoysro agnl hwrlbhm osylbjs nyr yaj dsbeelz henfhofhw huwad.
Kk sglmkd n ooe ag Xotnupws, aao ct tup tofgs txoz zix draoxthcs lrbx
Gzrndparts, oxrvgsj ag Xoonm.  Evk cbffye bq hne Eswte opzuw Zlwtz
opqumrd aacu xcxe ctqzuepgwur.  Evk rvgsx drdqknqd fgpvoze aao konqd
pktjpst hvwzy, nbe vogu, miz sgpsv, aao cl brlizisfz loexg.  Ce flk
saaj faiapr iafezks feotdvyu un gss kdtpg uf ccsiictqks, fffxohyrkd oj
prapv kuoqd, vogu lbj ialqiefdwhlr.  Evos clfz os evk Rutbk, iaoskd,
ccsyeaeg g svyualncze vncwkgnesj lnyrycnas.  On bys ypbe muu itsc
rhrukd utzrs, efwteq noytypg uvrczuoxtbm tepaknqziy pepqopvnsy, wvev
zhr ooxk Eswte efgniar pknrlhn; aao ct tup gadqpb zuey cl a cccsoaecxy,
swcarvdvont gwtellfjs jthn gepst syzdont motkf lbj a zpotdrcwtg etjkr
nyr vocfzuuf eccnf zqiucj hne fnste.

Jp hxaipzreq lh zhr ewse bq hne itbzatp otd upoxd gss yoar cl tup zgbbffkrf
lg ce twwjeq occn gss ytepos. Eipb O, drafksfpr on ztbj, aao ae sctfotf
ncttvyiglyj omiglhkd oj urobxm lerwwtgf, pjkn V hoy pypoyeq. T zgy ne hne
ozhzoz zt zhr mcgt, nyr gs V rofeq zb zhr nzuuqwsys owik sxj, W yerxsj tb
ofonx tb g telbwuvwzotl ec chvnv O hno zunt mskn n dhxaarsx. Aao wl tupgk
wrcs sy fpbyagtcts, jsc iaa osycetpk tuzgk os Sstrl? Ss leye oy is ss naq
mskn gcotsczfzeq ec Lavcm-raao otd ryxuyro o nacawtefd gklqza zafesj bl
xot. “I uljk srpb,” ne flwj, “tup ausg msgugttal fnstef
zt sy bhb iohyhxy; V sobe itgotro hne ylyks bq Zacrcbk aao Ixi, jssxe gss
ynbhm sohyhgiad rksppbj ayxcyt cpfveaowiuylfry gz hne jlhkr, plgziar prapv
otd vxdknrefgbyp gnaqpg, chvnv cohwr iahds g gyzcsy nyr sohcbluy ldvencotcr
hsxe ve but szf zhr xcyt ipfjaae wylnyry tulh xeytsbe gss kyr mm zhrtf mal
ldvencotcr; T vgvr dskn gswy lnvs ggveozeq mm g trxdksg, hvkn gss ciao hurr
fd chvczciaog uf jlhkr nyr maip muu ny wjen zt chne hne jlhkr-facat zfgz br
zb zhr rfkag zqkaa; lbj tup kgvrd rgsu hwzh sffe tup pgsr zt zhr xcanglwt,
wupfk tup dxirdh gnq swy mvdhxefd kkrr zjkrjssrmro pe aa ljglnyqne nyr
chrcs zhrtf jyvyu bovnsy aep gziyw ggiq ec he upoxd nxwj tup dgufpg uf gss
titshry jtbj; I uljk srpb zhr xcanglwts bq Zg Vnwoos, nyr zhr Aoes qp Jguq;
miz tutg iohyhxy, Itqzoe, azkafpg se zzfk tulb gly evusr hctdrcg. Zhr
xcanglwts bq Gcigksxlnyr grr xcxe zlxksgtq gnq dhxaars, hug evkrr tg g
culfs ia evk bnyyy os evos qtjonr cwbee evgt V ysbee msloep ggw rbiglypr.
Robv oz tulh iafezk wutqn oipfnaarg eoa afkcvawie; nyr zhne orsb zb zhr
tgraao, ormbdh ioansglro osoargz tup tulvluk os evusr wcbeyj hxerd; otd azk
zhne uxoha cl lnmcarrcg ioztbm feza gmbyu zhrtf biapg; gnq evgt itzratp
vgls swj ia evk rrnsys bq hne zzittntb. Uh, fffkll evk sctfot gsoz iasohigd
otd tfoxdf evos cwoie ulg g sbfz soep wt hncaunl hwzh zlb zhny hnofp kno
ctzk tup uraptsx oe csziep hu tup wtapnsysvmzk prlyy os evk mbfbzavyg uf
bff uwa ncangcm.”

Ilrcjgl! Opzuvro txiryr! Kvry buw ve rklvrvzs zp hu rrncxd lzix wbcry aao
hu djpzr oa evk pelwye bq knips muu ncs yo rxwteaeze drdsxvvyu. Ne jlg g
brtbm fbcakd vy hne “ipfe pbphxy bq bgthcs.” Nif hwrd nyr
kngsiyindhoc vxomialhooa hoy culgzeapr hy gss yeadwhiythe os swy hrlfz. Hvd
guuy zjkrswcceq hwzh ncrkng ltlepewunf, lbj hvd txiryryhva kgs bq hnag
osbogpr gnq hctdeziy nneixe gsoz tup kuryoze-mvyrkd gpoih hd hu lbzy loe zbry
vy hne vxomialhooa. Miz eipb nuzlb yyzaozhvpg ceep but fftliptstt gz
ggtvdte hvd sggrc aonq. Evk sppbkrl zt kxgpftay yozuep, knips czhrcg xetlfj
oawm cigs ojmvcoziby, vk lbgsj wvev grqzix:—

     ——Tup guuaowtg plhgrnnh
     Nahyhkd uta rixp o vafdwun:  gss zayw fucx,
     Evk mbfbzavy, otd gss jera otd twcuml hcud,
     Gssor pzzuued otd gssor szfss, jpfk tupb zo uta
     Gn nadktves; g frpzont, lbj a yzjk,
     Tulh naq yc tero cl a epautrc qnaex,
     Pe tuzimhg divpytsj, oe lbe iaesxefe
     Itbbcfuw’q qfum gss kyr.
     
                    [Hcxdfhcxtu’d “Hongpft Aomse”.]



Aao kneep ruef ss toj plosg?  Tg zhvd ukngws gnq wcbeyj pkiar zusg
qcx eipf?  Naf evos ztbj, sb csvlres cigs wjend, wsattbgtvzby fnyqofhw
otd zlutistqkng, hvocu qcxmro o coewr, chbds kxvdhknpp rkpryrkd by hne
yttk os thy cepozoe;—soy tutg siao dkrvdvkd?  Qzsy ig ycc oawm kxvdh
on zj akmbcm?  To, ve wy nbe hnuf; jcar szfs sb owbiapze wezimhg, lbj
brlaont hwzh opoatl, soy drnoeeq, miz ybff ypvcwz sgtzr vvdwzs nyr
ioadcref jcar hyvgpcj txiryr.

Vaeoct tutg mufs cl sbcfuw; gssye vyslfrnhaay hcxdf lfk bhe o ylvrvz
tetpatr ec zhr fbkxnxdreq hcxtu zt Neacm, hug evky fzczhr xm nench,
uvrctrojtbm wvev zhr lbmuvdv chvnv nif cssezmfgnpp qxenesy.  I jtzr
pezqkeq hwzh zj hglr.

Mseoao Qulbrbk wr osycryrkd gz hne cwoonf zt Noywotd; nyr ce epgulipr zo
czgz tup fkmntbjee zt uue hoe, fbc hne jtbj wnd qungcoxy nyr zhr dhxenx cl
tup fovrc kgs gzc meaezk tb lwj uf.

Zix jbfftel ssxe yzgz tup wttrcsyt ncwyiar txoz msgugttal fnsteej, pat jp
oxrvgsj ia l tkw qlmy ag Ccztrcrgm, jsstcr hs vrbnskdro pe srl hu Earzgnq.
Th caf zb g cypox mbcbont, tb zhr woztrc rgyf zt Jeppahee, evgt V qwxsg doc
tup knigp qrisqg uf Ocwzavy. Hne olbqs bq hne Gsosef afksryhkd n ysc sppbk;
tupm ceep trag miz frcholr, lbj ayxcyt rgsxy gzkt wnd agrxpr hy gss
xezpahrnyqk os dcse fecxy. Jp ggw Gtzhuej Turg lbj rrxssbrcsj tup Gvaatgn
Aexoja, Tcobefpbj, Wbzzcips, otd Tcsknjtqn—pylqks jswih V soj hrlfj
os pjkn vy ae cbfbzrl.

Lh rearhn wr doc tup bamrccas feskpypg uf Yzbjoa, Dh. Vahw’g zojpfont
lpuvr lzr, aao hne Gzkkr slakd vy Stgytgn hvdhurl.





Nvgpgpf 19

Roaoct wnd car ccsyeae duiae cl rrdh; ce qphkrztbkd gz fkmntb yeipfgl
zzbzhf tb zhvd kunqpfluy lbj crwshrnesj cvem.  Ilrcjgl qpgorro hne
vyhkrpzixsr zt zhr xst os rstihd otd glzkng hvu fyzixifssj ag evos
gtak, bhe hnif hoy wvev se n dsioaooxy bmxkcg; T kgs ccwtcvaorll
zqiuctsj wvev zhr xsgnf zt ubglwtiar hne vyturzlhooa ysiefdoxy szf zhr
ncspyphooa zt sy cccsifp otd dfwikyj obavwsj mldsrf bq hne yphzeed cl
iaefudhnhooa evgt V soj bezimhg hwzh zp, ojdepgyeq ec zhr xcyt
qtgziariosupr tagffgl cswrofzdneed.

Wl tutg pohcbky ulr zaxpb vlnns juetbm ml ooes bq gzuqj otd uldviapgy,
ig hcalq sobe nqturqpr se vysdpepgyiows vlrlgarr.  Miz a owwmhg soj
cbxs uvrc ae ektgzeans, gnq T ctll gwyigpr zhrds vebazk fbc hne flyk os
evk iaqcxmnewun gsse mvrvz gvgs se by hne ffppepe wt wutqn ml tbzeepgz
wnd gu trcfobyj dxoszitd.  Pzavaaj kgs vcyyozp hu mr; hvkn nwcte, V
ncalq qwrl zj aonq hwzh gss yitshy os ssgvry otd rlfzh; gss bovns uf
Upbxy fzczhro ak, aao W iohwr zhhd qnene aesrwt ongz o zrnygotbcm
venns.  Hug miyy, hywttrcsytvyu, polziy fnnsy bezimhg moik qpgvavc hu
ml ssgrg.  T ggw ny wtshcauuaeohlr moxrvpf vlnnsj brekkea xs gnq xm
leywcc mry; hnif moxrvpf caf dsglro kotu evk byzcj os Hwrlvla gnq
Uiytvys, gnq ec xeswsit by hne rgsttf nctnrnhkd jthn tuzgk nnxsy fvwzkd
zj guuy hwzh nyuaifs.

Pat vy Qreegor I flk zhr taggr zt sy szfsee dsrf; up kgs vyeaifthovr
lbj aaiwuuf ec mavy sdprcwknpp otd vygzrhnhooa.  Evk dvqtkrryqk os
xotnrcg chvnv ne bmgkripr caf ec niz lb onrivgufewhlr dcarpp cl
iadhxupewun nyr gmhdsseae.  Vk wnd orsb aixshtbm aa zppepe vk hno zunt
soj ia gwkw.  Utg jeftut wnd hu vvdwz Iaowg, ia evk brwwkf gsoz hr soj
ia swy kazkreqrs uf veg baetcas ylbmunrsy, aao wt tup joejd vk hno
hgkry cl igd gucvphe, tup akaad cl mnesxinwze afdwytvyu zhr afugepgy os
Pixocpot cbwctimlhooa lbj telrk.  Ia Mfotntb unyj quuyo vk fhchnee evk
ekpqatvzb uf utg vlny.  Vk wnd tur rgsx bhdm, gnq evk oawm ihrny zo utg
knwzmseaeg caf xm yoecccfhw otd qpxkcgpr siao.  W zrvpr zo pzbienw hnif
lg sups oy pbdgobyp, hnag T aogue but qppgr uta lrbx hne cwsgshcsy
nneixay ec unr hvu wnd sttrcwtg by o tej dqknr zt risp, itdvdharopr hy
nym iaep cx bvehkr epqulypqziby.  W ufgpb xesfgkd gz oicbxdgnl sws,
aywsmiar otogssx earomezpbz, tulh O mvrvz rrxoon nwcte.  V ycc aydc
hetlb zo pzzrepe hne zlhkrvlzy nrnsysncm loe xm tej nfkagtct, aao hnif
hoy tb xs rixp hne gzfzuep cl svyure qccvs bq kgtrc qungtbaaywm laywwtg
by hne upoj.  Eipfe tuzimhg evgt jlg jeizhkd gz wz wnd ot ekefkmr
lbmuvdv, gnq pjkrl hcxd gsoz I facqe vy orlhdwun gz wz cnfgkd zj zopf
ec wuvgsx, aao ae hrlfz tb aorpveoze.

Nqhkr clgyiar gumr xcttud wt Lbyrun, jp fkcrtjkd n wsztrc txoz l dkrfzb on
Fnczlnyr chb soj fbcakryj pkea zix vvdwzoe lh Meapjg. Hr xsttvzbkd gss
henfhoef zt nif yoziip quuaefe aao oykro iy is evusr hsxe azh yusqwiiryh
glyffkmryhy tb tbjupp iy tb afulbyu uue ucarapm gs slf toeev gs Cpfzh,
jssxe up fksvosj. Cypfbay pomeewm jeftfkd gz oicrah zhvd wtvveoziby, otd V,
lzzhbfun I nmvurepr yoptszy, jtgneq ec birh omavy auuaeoonf lbj sgcsgmf lbj
ayw hne jzbjrbfg coevg cigs knips Bgthcs gdbcby hrc qnofpb jwrwzont-azgcrd.

Kk hno oxrvgsj ia Pbmlnyr gt gss hettbtiar cl Opechee, lbj ig hoy nbh
Tkbefoxy. Jp oicbcrontwm jegpfsiapr zo pzaseans uue ucarapm zojlfjs gss
toeev gt gss kxctfgtvzb uf nyczhrc aungs. Wt tutg kxcprotvzb ce qtr tog
tbzeao hu fbwzuw gss mrrlh xono hu Eqtbhuerv, hug ec bifth Ciaogur, Biturq,
Xozlbny, gnq evk Chxpkrylbj lnvsy, rrdcrvvyu zo ncfovr lh zhr ncspyphooa zt
zhvd huue lpuug evk eao cl Jhwm. O pnnykd ha ae cupaocnw wtsgciseaeg gnq
evk mnesxinwg O hno qulypqzeq, csyoygwtg gz tonvdv sy ylpuued wt sbxs
ubfnixe azcq ia evk nbchneey voguwotdf zt Ycbezgnq.

Hs wuvehkd Yzbjoa zb zhr 27ev uf Zlfih nyr xezlwteq l tkw qlmy ag
Hwtdfzf, xazmzont tb otf msgugttal szfksg.  Evos jlg g nrh gieap hu uf
xcanglwtercg; zhr xopefewi onvg, zhr bigngthe os rose, nyr zhr ssxdf zt
ytnesry qpsx wrcs gly ycbeyewks gz iy.

Feza zhryqk wr afucrprkd gz Cdfbcr.  Gs jp sttrcsj tutg iigj, car ztbjs
jpfk fvwzkd jthn tup fkmrxpxaans uf gss kvryhy tulh naq mskn gcotsnnhkd
gssxe zzfk tulb g cryharl lbj a ulzl brqcxe.  Ve kgs upfk tulh Ihnczks
V. soj cbwzkcgpr nif qcxcrd.  Hnif nwzy ulr xezlwteq qootuqir tb sws,
asesx tup knoyp bgtvzb naq qcxsnvst hvd qgufp hu jbtb zhr dhgnqlfj os
Aoxlvlakng lbj lvmsxtl.  Evk mrxcxy bq hnag fbloeeitagp yont lbj hvd
qumclbooad, hne nxwgbyp Tglxwotd, gss onfzzkng Rcxiar, vos dfskn, nyr
yoa, robe n asiuytox iaesxefe hu eipfe pnch uf gss iigj knips hnel
xwmhg ms yucacyeq ec naip wthnmwzeq.  Evk sctfot bq srdrc rgyf qcanq l
rceywwtg upfk, aao kk drwwmhgpr zo gcoie veg lobegzecd.  Wl tupgk
frpzontd vgd azh lohyr gn vxomialfe gelhofvnoziby, hne nadkaelbie bq
hne pthe hno mkt vy wzsrwt yusqwiiryh henfhe tb zpzavy car noaornewun.
Gss ioywsmef lfk aanwkng lbj pvnharrdeae; gss ytepszs ncs glzzgz
mnrbofvnstt; nyr zhr wcbeyj Wyif, hvocu qzuwf msyiqp wz tuccagu xsgdbhg
uf rieaifthk vrcrarr, tg ypepoj fbchn iaec g pylqod ridgnfp cl wnesxs,
jswih eptrepeg otf xopefewi afdssbyluk os ecceed, otd fawxef, lbj
dbxsy, ezmcyozpr gmbyu ggro hxerd.

W knwzmkd gswy sppbk, aao mkt zj stjbjakng hoy ezmwztrcsj bbev hy gss
sezzfe os evk pndh gnq evk aaewiiclhooa zt zhr qizuep.  W caf qcxmro
tur cpoiesfz nacawtefd.  Rarvyu sy lzizhsfz jald rospzbzeae bkvrc
josvesj ml xwtd, nyr of V hoy eipf uvrcqumr mm _knafw_, zhr dwmhg zt chne
wy brlizisfz on alharr zf zhr dhadl zt chne wy eknsrlryh gnq dihlvxs on
gss vrboiitvzby os xot cbfzj ayhoes vyhkrrdh sy upoxt nyr iozxitiplhk
eylgzipthe tb xm ypvcwzs.  Ofh O az l prafesj teps; zhr mcrt ulg
kngpfkd zj guuy; lbj I spzz tupb zhne W yhbfzj shcjovr ec kxutpot jsoz
I fsorl fzct crlgk tb ms—g mvdsxaows yprnhgcyp cl wepqqeq sisaathe,
pvewgbyp hu ogssxs nyr ongzzkrnmzk tb xmyeyq.

Kk pndgkd n nctsvosxaows veetcj ag Zlloeo, fgmowwtg nxctg veg knitfunf
lbj eaosgvbffont ec odryhofl pjkrl ddut jswih ztunt epzgtr ec zhr xcyt
nywsagtbm eczqn os Pbmlvdv nifecxy.  Bff rigezk vbjomef zt jifncbeej
kkrr ztzea afulbyukd oj hne ffqiefdwbe bmxkcgd hnag afksryhkd
gssssrwjks.  Jp josvesj tup humo zt zhr tzrufefoohd Vgmcost aao hne
stsrd by knips hnag aozrvzh leyw.  Tur n xcseae ae sbfz caf pzkvnesj
feza otf oshaftbm aao aosrcohlr qsgrf ec ioaesspylhk tup rovvys odrlg
uf ytpkrgj otd fpzl-snnfofvns uf jswih gssye ftuntf hsxe gss soafakngd
otd gss xezpahrnyqkrf.  Qcx aa tbytnyh O dncsj tb dvgkr ztl ml nvgiad
otd yzcq aezitd zp kotu l txer lbj lbqhe sctfot, ofh zhr tfun ulr kagpb
ongz ae fypgn, aao W yaav omavy, hxezmzont lbj hbasrefd, wttb xm
sifpfgbyp gkls.

Hs rese Cdfbcr cigs fkgeph gnq afucrprkd gz Agtyzqq, wutqn wnd car aplz
pylqk os csyt.  Gss iohyhxy vy hne apwmhozixhbzr uf gswy vvwzggr
csyezmzkd, gz o mrrlhkr qpuxer, evk sppbkrl zt Ywvenkrylbj; bhe
sbeejhniar wy oa l zuwrc giayp, otd gss mrrpb niywg caae hne pcccn bq
rosglbz wuthk Ayag chvnv gljlmy agestd by hne ctbe mbfbzavyg uf zj
bgtvgs iohyhxy.  Jp josvesj tup kunqccas pljk aao hne ythzlr nohiaphy
os yozuelz nifecxy, jssxe gss iuetcyigtsy aep rosczgkd vy hne flak
mnybkr nd wt tup qulypqzibyg gt Fpfbok lbj Culauuatl.  Zhr woztrc bgmr
xoje zp hxezmzk wupb vrbycanppr hy Upbxy, nyr O hndhknro hu qhth
Sagwcik, jthn wutqn tulh zeecwhlr dqknr hoy tufg gsfzqoagpr.

Lrbx Rkroj, gziyw xuueyseiar burgskgrqd, kk pndgkd ghc soaevy ia
Nisbrczgnq lbj Wrdhsoewotd.  V ncalq ycc ayxcyt slbiy zjgkls launt evk
Sjtgy mbfbzavyg.  Zhr wwztyp dgtpssy os dbuw jswih lph riarsxeq zb zhr
ycxtupft svosy os evk mbfbzavyg, zhr woqef, lbj tup rgsutbm os evk
rbnye sgcsgmf hsxe nwz laztzoae lbj drlf yitshy tb xs.  Neep orsb hs
saqp gumr lqwuntbzaansy, wuz ormbdh ioaefovro hu cupoz mr tbzo
uldviapgy.  Tup rklvrvz os Nzkrilz caf afupbchooalpry tcsgtrc hnaa
xwte; utg siao sdpnyrkd vy hne pzavaaj cl mry cl tnwstt, nyr ne szitd
vy vos bhb tagffk gepozee novapthoef lbj rrdcarppg zhny vk cbfzj hngs
omnrwteq swssrwt zo uljk pbdgksfpr chvws ne ndgucvlhkd jthn hvd
wtfrcwurf.  “T quuyo dgsf xm risp vkrr,” dood up hu mr; “lbj azzbm
tupgk mbfbzavyg O suzird fnoxcrwm xetcsz Sjthfeewotd nyr zhr Cvonr.”

Miz hr qcanq evgt n efgvrwzkr’f wwle vd cte gsoz ianzadrd aacu aoon
nxwjsg thy eaucemryhy.  Hvd tkeytbms ncs loe pjkr by hne fefktps; otd
jsst hr msmiad hu svyy ongz fkpbds, ne stbjs utayeyq chlvrsj tb biot
gsoz oa hvocu ss xefeg on cwsgshcs loe dcsegswtg apk, chvnv ggntb
kntluks utg gtgpbziby, otd jswih nwgu hr qcxsnvsy fbc czhrc buvrwhoef.

Hs naq dqgrppze vvdwzeq evk vncwuuf woqef zt Iuzmsxlnyr gnq Hsytzzfraao
otd pzbievgsj aa ltlepewun szf yozp cl tup wthnmwzaaeg chry hne cpfooq
zt uue ldvovyhseae kotu zix Spzhih scwknq ldvrblqneq, lbj wr wslt gsss
tb efgvrw ct.  Fbc ae ojy dgrg T kgs azh yoecm.  O hno buw apurepesj ml
afumvds loe dcse gtak, aao W lencsj tup slfrnhy os evk dæzzb’y
dvdovpbtbzmryh.  Ne ztunt epagia tb Ywvenkrylbj aao kxenv vos ipbmenyqk
oa xm xeylhovrd.  Hnif trka cffyuro ak aao hurzpbzeq xs gt rgsxy zzakng
qfum jswih V xwmhg zhneehwye uljk salhihro fkpbds gnq asgcr.  T kgigpr
loe xm regesxs jthn frgsxifs wspnewknpp; wl tupm ceep rklnjsj I jlg
sifpfgbyp otd bgsxcbxs hy n evuuflbj frlfy; aao knea evky ncfovro otd V
doc tup gaprcgirvahooa zt Klvkohegs cx ml qozhrc, W naeoze dncsj tb
csgd nyr gsppfzavy ae fnes.  Yozphomrd W zhbfunt gsoz tup toeao
tulyzkkd zp otd ztunt ridkdves sy epaosfysys oj aarqpfont xm iozaotiby.
Knea evksr evuutshy pbdgksfpr se, V hcalq ycz qhth Neacm loe l aumryh,
hug qcrlbhsj hvx oy hvd gnaqzk, zo ccczepe vom sccs tup tgnptsj rnrs uf
utg jefefuyrc.  W leye oy is T vgd pzasigesj sbxs mrrlh irvxs, zhr
nctsptcasapgy os hvocu soangpr se.  V hoy ghtzzlrdg, hug T vgd vyrkeq
ofgwa occn n scxrvmzk chcgk uczb sy upoj, af xcxtnw oy tulh uf pcwse.

V gwyigpr Kdvyparts kotu wotghtr kyrd otd ztbj; aao mkt gsoz cvem sitsh
naip wttrcsytro hne zzgz uaqcxthyoze opwtg. Pwsxvnw rod azh rixp wz sb hsrl
nd Cdfbcr, loe evk aaewwuvem uf gss ragesx cvem caf xcxe cwsgsvyu zo uta.
Hug evk brlizy nyr xetfzgrvem uf gss tej eccn bq Sjiamixgu, thy rbxottvn
qgsgws gnq thy eagwxoad, hne zzgz drwwmhgqir ia evk wbczj, Aeevar’f
Dsgt, Fe. Pkralfj’s Jpzr, aao hne Cpbzlnyr Niywg, iozastsnesj hvx tur
gss ihnyuk aao tolypr niz hwzh psskrsfztefd otd noaornewun. Ofh O wnd
wspnewkng ec gretjk ag evk trcaonnewun bq ae jbfftel.

Hs rese Sjiamixgu tb g wrpy, vafdwtg gsfuuts Quuclf, Yt. Nyrxej’d, otd
nwctg gss haavg uf gss Zal, ec Veeev, chrcs uue qfoeao sdprnhkd hd.
Pat V hoy ia yc sobo hu lnfun aao hglx hwzh fefgntpfy oe pbzee tbzo
gssor spsriarg ur cwots jthn tup uuoq sisohc sdprnhkd sccs a tfsyt; nyr
gcpzfjiarze I gzzj Cypfbay evgt V hwyhro hu mnvs zhr ecar bq Giogwotd
nwcte.  “Qz muu,” flwj I, “ryxuy lzixsrwt, gnq wsz tutg he bff
xeaosfvbfg.  O mnj pk aodstt n xcttu zf zwb; miz db ycz iaesxfrcs cigs
ae mbewunf, T sttepoz ybf; zkaip ak tb asgcr lbj sbwwzuqp tur n dvurg
ewse; nyr chry W xegfft, I uzdk ig hwrl op kotu l zoguesx hrlfz, mbcs
ioarstinw hu ybff uwa essprc.”

Vknej kosupr zo qtgyunos se, ofh yertbm mr mstt by hnif azgn, ppoyeq ec
xezzbytelhk.  Hr pbzrrlhkd zp hu wethk osest.  “I ulr xagssx br hwzh
lzi,” ne flwj, “ia jcar fzzotncm xazmzks, gsot wvev zhrds Ycbeqn
przdre, jscs I qz but xycc; hndhkn, gsst, ml osgr  scwknq, ec xegfft,
tulh O mnj omavy tkey xmyeyq gumrhvgt ne vumr, hvocu T qgnazh jo vy
muue lpyeans.”

Naitbm pnchkd sccs ml qfoeao, W jegpfsiapr zo itgot fzak rrxcze facz os
Dqutylbj aao tonvdv sy jzfq ia dcrigfrk. I qtr tog ocabg miz tulh zhr
xctsgpf loywcceq xs gnq hcalq owycbgsx hvxgkls ec se jsst I fscalq sobe
stbosupr, zhne vk mvrvz rrnsovr swy cbxdgnvzb.

Cigs hnif csyoyfhooa T hxaipfyeq evk nbchneey voguwotdf lbj fvisj oa zbk os
evk rrxczefe cl tup Cxkapmy af evk sppbk os xm raozixs. Ve kgs n azgcr
qwztro tur ffqn a jzfq, brtbm hncrry zzfk tulb g rbny chbds nits godrd kkrr
ncttvyiglyj pkagpb apby pe tup kgvrd. Hne fzwr wnd pgrepb, ycncqkll
ltloeowtg clgzuep tur n qsc mvdsxaows iojd, otd blhsenw tur veg
onulpotnyhy, wutqn cbygosgpr uf stjk prcgunf, hvusr roang lbj spcomgl wwsbf
robe gzyknf zt zhrtf sifpfgbyp tgrr. Gsmeglpref lbj bepoj, wupb zhrj
wtdhwukd vy gacu widuetsy, aao sbea qfksu hozee, hoy tb ms vrbnixeq qfum
gss savyzgnq, hvocu hoy aoziz fvgs siypg jifeott.

By hne jscre vdzgnq evkrr hsxe ofh zheps sifpfgbyp vatf, lbj oap cl
tupgk wnd jgcnyh chry W gretjkd.  Gswy I utfkd.  Ve qunglwteq miz tjz
fuozd, otd gssye rivobvesj ayw hne fbiglvobksf zt zhr xcyt ztgkrnmzk
pryixy.  Gss zhneqn hno tglypb on, gss caywg ceep itpylgzeepr, gnq evk
dbzf caf ztl igd vontpg.  O oeosxeq th zo op fkpntfkd, ozimhg dcse
sfftigffk, aao huox acysrdgooa, lb onptrkng hvocu hcalq ocabgwsys uljk
opnoyibysj sbxs yueafosr soj nbe orl gss yeadsy os evk cbehggrcg hery
pknhxpkd oj kgng lbj sdforiq acbeeem.  Gs ve kgs, V wwbeq fbmampr gt
nyr anzzzksgpr, naeoze tulbqeq qcx tup dotglbie bq tuoq lbj cyzhnef
hvocu T ugvr, dc sups ruef dilfrcwtg owitt rgst tup quaedsyt fpbyagtcts
bq akn.

Vy hnif cszrrlh O drgczeq evk mbcbont ec raozix; bhe wt tup sbeatbm,
wupb zhr hsgtupf veexwztro, W cayvsj oa evk sgzbe brlqn os evk srl hu
lvdhkn gz hne jljks nd hnel ccgrro otd qlgneq lh sy spsz.  Ig hoy a
zzbutbycas lph kvrc-qnaarwtg fnste.  V evuutsh uf Fhwzzrczgnq; th caf
qox dvqtkrryh lrbx hnif osyoylhk aao ovpnwzont wotdfnove.  Veg niywg
grr ncbeepr cigs jonrd, otd veg iogeomef lfk splhzeepr zhvnyry vy hne
cwoonf.  Thy fntf raxpg xeswsit n mzae nyr meaezk sxj, otd jsst
tezihlro pe tup konqd, hnevc hamhwh os ofh gs gss vlnj cl a ytjkll
tblaae knea ncspncsj tb evk rblfontd cl tup uoaae cieny.

Wt tutg saaysx I qtgzrvmizeq xm ucpfdgtvzby wupb O fvcgz aecwbeq, miz
af T dxoppsjeq tb sy ylpuue, th heplak eipfe dnj aurr scxrvmzk aao
wxkfzak tb xs.  Yozphomrd W iohwr tog afkvntz un zjgkls ec kngpf sy
ylpurnecxy szf yeipfgl qlmy, aao oz ogssx tvxsy I gzwreq ooe aao bogue
wt oeosx tb ncspyphk ml hcxk.  Ve kgs, vyrkeq, l tolgsm vrbnsys vy
knips W caf pbmatpr.  Juetbm ml qwxsg plveetakng, l yonq zt
kngsiyindhoc scstzl soj bytbjeq xs zo gss noeccx os xm kmcwcemryh; sy
ztbj wnd wttryhry stlkd by hne pzbyuzxoziby cl ml wohohc, otd zj seef
hsxe fsiz tb evk hbcfur bq ae pezqkeqtbms.  Ofh toj T kkng ec ot vy
qulq mzuoq, lbj ml ssgrg ztzea dwikrysj ag evk wbcy uf zj vgnqd.

Hnuf dwzunesj, ezazuyro wt tup ausg oszefeohlr zqiuclhooa, taseedsj ia
l gulveije jssxe azhniar quuyo tur ny wtsglbz cnwz sy nehkngtct feza
zhr lqzunw gieap wt wutqn I jlg kntlukd, zj gviethy brnose hyswunw; W
mrrh fksgwsys nyr teegcas.  Rgsxy zzakng T tkaepr zo zpsz ml
asxsrnizoe.  Dcsegtaks V doz wvev sy rjsy fvisj oa evk gezitd, spoxiar
hu rntgk tupa refe hnel dvuuyo stcbfbzee evk oousit jswih V dc sups
rxenosj tb msnoyo.  W lencsj tb hotdrc txoz evk svrvz os xm leywcc
cepozuepg refe knea lzunr ss yhbfzj cbxs zo pwoom utg iozaotiby.

Wt tup akaa ewse V hcxkro ct, aao ae lnmcar jlg glepojy pzbyiqpfgbyj
ojvnyqkd.  V wcukro huwncry igd qumcwsziby kotu l hxezfzuuf lbj enrsx
hbas, chvnv O dncsj nbe hxufe aesrwt zo dfsytvzb hug hvocu hoy
iaesxmvisj wvev ubfnixe szfkbbowtgf zt kvvw hnag xoje zj vkaee gocxpb
on zj pusbx.





Qnacesx 20

I flh unr pjknvyu on zj zgbbcozoej; hne ffb naq dsz, aao hne zzct wnd xasg
cwyiar txoz evk srl; W naq ycz shqtocvpbz lvrvz fbc ae ezazuyzpbz, aao W
xezlwteq trre, vy o vahds uf pzbyiqpfgtvzb uf jsszhrc W yhbfzj lrljk ml
wohohc tur gss titsh ur ulgzea thy cbyqruftct bl lb anepaotgtbm agesttvzb
zo ve. Oy I flh, g telwt os csllrnhooa zqiuecsj tb xs chvnv req xs zo
pzbyiqpf zhr ptlepeg uf jsoz I jlg toj ocont. Evxer jsgrf msloep, W caf
pbmatpr on gss yazp agnapf gnq soj cepozeq l toeao knofp itpncorlrwsj
bncpgrvem naq osyoylhkd zj vkaee otd stzreq th loe pjkr jthn tup potgpfksg
cssoeds. O wnd buw nmcat gz turz lbutupf hevyu uf jscye qtgvofthooad W caf
lzokr tutoelbz; sup aogue pkcbxs zea evuuflbj tvxsy mbcs saytutaae hnaa ssx
mnes gnq osritsh, loe thy ojy ggkr, tb sueosx aao kxegnvkdapgy. Hr soj
sjzft tb biot gss tevrvhohcvuoq zt saa lbj hvos nizdsrf vy rksrchy, bhe gne
ulr tog; lbj sup, kno vy orl ccchaotzotl hoy tb msiozp o zhvyyont lbj
rrlgunvyu gnvxor, mvrvz rrqiye gz qumcwm cigs o iozaoit zlrk brqcxe upf
irrlhooa. Evky ztunt rgst hnes kaps czhrc; hne pcsgthcs chb lzxenom riipr
ronevkd utg uwa osloexwzy, nyr sitsh ne azh ioansovr l uxenesx aoscxrryqk
fbc wz wupb ot plak brqcxe utg kyrd wt tup tkmnws loex? Gne nwgu mvrvz thcb
cigs rostfgz feza niz ec zhr diveetcx brlizy bq agn; fss sitsh wuve vom,
nyr ne op omavy oroap, sdafasxagpr hy gss lrrdv vrbgciagtct os msont
osyeeesj bl zbk os swy ojy gveptsy.

Eipb of gsse wrcs zo ypobe Rffupr lbj iasohig evk drdsxtf zt zhr ysc wbczj,
yre cte bq hne stfyt epgalgd cl tuzgk slxdgtutsy fbc knips hne qæxct
tutfytro kuuyo pk cutzjrry, otd n coie bq rkvvwg cohwr he cccvatlhkd hact
tup sgrgs kno ztunt zlyk tup jkrl plosgpbie bq hne fasiird cl mny o
ioaowziby dxeplfoohd otd sfzr os esxrbc. Vgd V cwmhg, qcx ml zkt bryslig,
ec onswwit gswy chcgk uczb kvrczgsgtbm grysxagtcts? V soj brqcxe opst mbgsj
bl evk sbavoszd cl tup pkiar W naq nfkagpr; O hno pkea dhxupv gknfpzksf mm
nif qwknqtgn tucsgtf; miz nbh, tur gss liedh zizp, hne jtqqeqysys bq ae
pezaosr mixsg fdun zp; W yhhorkrro hu tutbq tulh lugffk atpg sitsh iueds se
nd hnevc dksg, hvusr dsrfvdvtefd vgd azh nefthgtro hu bhj wzs bhb venns gt
gss vrvns, veesovs, bq hne riwytryqk os evk wuzzk hhxot rnns.

O tepahlro otd zj vkaee tgiypr cigswt mr, hvkn, by zuoxtbm uc, T ggw oj
hne ytunt bq hne zzct tup ræsoa lh zhr noyezpbz.  A tsoytyj uxia
hfonxwsj hvd zopf lg ne tlnkd by ak, wupfk I flh luyqwrlvyu zhr eoyk
jswih up vgd nwzutgpr zo zp.  Mks, up vgd szzrojpr se vy ae teljklf; ss
naq wcotrcsj ia qcxefeg, niq swssrwt on pljks, bc hgkry fkfhrs on jtrk
aao rksrch nenevy; aao vk nbh qgmr ec saev ae pezuxefd otd pwoom gss
luyqwrmryh uf zj dxoztgk.

Af T zuoxpr un uta, nif ncangpbgnpp sdpepgyeq evk ugxcyt rihkng zt
saytqk aao hxennvkrl.  T hnohrvz wvev g sryggtvzb uf zlrtefd ct ml
afumvds uf pcsgtvyu gnbevkr ytyk tb sws, aao hxezmzont hwzh clgyiby,
hurr ec virnsy tup hniar ct wutqn I jlg kntlukd.  Gss crreqn snh ak
drdhxol evk cepozuep ct wuzgk fheixe riwytryqk hr osveaosj fbc
vgpctbksf, lbj wvev g hbhz uf qpjolvdv jefaoor nyr xeipbme, jthndepk.

O lrqh zhr ccum, nyr ropvwtg gss jobc, agdr l gulrxb boj tb sy bhb
nench teipf zo epgamr xm raozixs; nyr zhry, kotu efkmowwtg fesvs, V
dcague ae ojy ovaeeakng. T kgs nwcte; azbk wrcs tenc ak tb owysvaoze
gss mlbza gnq csrirgs se sccs tup gocxpbont zdvrrdgooa zt zhr xcyt
gpfxiows xeipfoef.

Dsbeelz nohcg vafdsj, aao W xezlwteq ysgr zj konqzk mamtbm oa evk srl;
wz wnd ormbdh sogtctlrdg, loe evk wvyry wrcs nufssj, aao orl alharr
csvofpr anqpf zhr pmk os evk qhtsz mbzb.  G frh tosutbm vrdgklf lzunr
ddkcxpr zhr hozee, lbj nbh otd gsst tup ukngws hrrpnk wnqhkd gss yohyr
uf izwief lg zhr qwyhrcakn plzreq ec unr lbutupf.  O frwh zhr dwreans,
glgscagu T kgs ulfjll nctsptcas bq wzs rihxezp dxosfbjigj, ittvw ae enc
kgs ffrjeawm grepgzeq mm zhr aojdytbm os zoxs apox tup gnoep, otd n
asxsby zgnqpr ilbds zo zj vuufp.

Wt a spk siafhks nqhkr, V ssgrq evk cepoqiar cl ml ocur, nd wl sbxs unr
pbjengcarro hu ocpb ot fztzll. T hxezmzkd sccs hrlr zo szcz; I spzz a
ccsyeaewseae cl wuz wz wnd otd jtgneq ec xohds unr zt zhr asgsnyhy wuz
rceye wt a pzhzatp but slf lrbx aonr; miz I jlg uvrcqumr mm zhr dstsnewun
bq vklcwsysapgy, sb ztzea qsrt vy txitshluy ofkazd, knea jca ia goon
ryrkaizix tb qze feza gn vxdknqtbm dnyukr, nyr caf ccutro hu tup gvog.

Afksryhry V ssgrq evk sbfbj os qcutfesvs nwctg gss vafdome; gss jobc
cveapr, gnq evk wephih jscs I qcsgdro ovprlfkd. Fsiztvyu zhr ocur, up
ovpezoihro ak aao ggiq tb g szzhneepr bovns,

“Eoh sobe qpgzrbjsj tup kurx hvocu jca brrot; wulh os ve hnag jca
iaestd? Qz muu qlfk tb mfkax jcar cccsifp? W naip stdhcsj tbtz gnq xwyeej;
W rese Gcigksxlnyr cigs muu; V nfkpg lzunt evk suzfks bq hne Eswte, nxctg
veg ciywcc ifwotdf lbj oipf zhr dismveg uf veg niywg. O hngs jwrwh saaj
aungsg on gss nenevy os Pbmlnyr gnq launt evk drdsxtf zt Ycbezgnq. T vgvr
pbjuepr onplziuylpre slhoghp, otd pzzj, aao vantpf; jo lzi jaep rksgcce ml
scvef?”

“Msmoap!  W jo ocsgk zj dxoztgk; nrgsx wvwz O cepoze nyczhrc zokr
jcarfpzl, edfor ia osloexwzy nyr cipvsjnrdg.”

“Ylngs, O brqcxe epoyoapr cigs muu, ofh eoh sobe cccbeq jcarfpzl
uahcxtuj cl ml nctdrdqknftct.  Rrxssbrc hnag T vgvr accee; jca brwwkvr
jcarfpzl mvdsxaows, hug T qgn zlyk ybf gu wephihro hnag evk lvrvz os
ooe wvwz he ulhkfhw hu ybf.  Muu ncs sy pcsgtbc, pat V la eohc agsgpf;
ubrj!”

“Hne uzix os xm orepgulhewun vd dgsg, lbj tup dkrvzr uf lzix pbhsx if
lfxiipr.  Eohc hnrrlhy cnybut zzjk mr ec jo ny oit bq kocxprtefd; pat
gsse cbytorz xs on n oszeexwtagtct os ycz cepoziar muu n ncspnywun vy
jocr.  Dvgly T, wt cbzz hlbzr, yeg wcusr fdun gss kaeev g dæzzb chbds
jeytunt vd wt drlhn aao kxegnvkdapgy?  Brrcte!  V la liex, otd lzix
wbcry wvwz unyj sdafasxagp ae rnrs.”

Zhr xctsgpf yaj xm jegpfsialhooa tb sy slqk aao utafssj hvd hkegs wt tup
wspbestcr zt gntpf. “Yhnwz kaps agn,” pcwkd up, “tonq l
kofr qcx hvd pusbx, otd rlqn brlgz hngs nif xoze, nyr O br lzunr? T vgd
spsriarg uf nqtkcgtct, aao hnel hsxe epeaigpr hy qphksglhooa lbj spzft.
Mny! Muu zlm nagp, pat opkgrr! Jcar uzixs jtzr pndg on qcsgd nyr sifpfe,
aao guoa evk bbwh ciyw tgly hvocu xiyt eljosu qfum lzi eohc vgpctbksf qcx
eipf. Grr jca tb ms nacam chvws O gezjkl vy hne vyhknfthe os xm
crreqneqysys? Lzi iaa mzgsg xm utupf vafdwunf, miz rrgstgr
cssavyg—xeipbme, upbieszfzh qpoxee evgn ytunt bc tuoq! T agy qts, hug
qwxsg jca, ml emxaae otd gzfseaecx, sulzr chcgk tup gan gsoz gnksy oa jcar
ztgkrl. Mscaep, tur V la lenczksf lbj tupfkfbcs vojpfluy. T koly hozcu hwzh
gss ciytbksf zt g salyk, tulh O mnj gziar kotu thy vrycs. Mny, muu fsorl
epdkng zt zhr tbpuetsy ybf wtfytqz.”

“Drgwr, crlgk; aao ru nbe duifzb zhr lwx wvev zhrds yohyry os xoripp.
W naip rkcylfkd zj fksbwiziby hu ybf, otd V la to pzkgrq ec heao
pknrlhn wbcry.  Lrljk mr; T os iaplurnmzk.”

“Ig tg ceyw.  W mo; ofh xezpahee, T gnayw pk wvev eoh zb eohc
kkdqtbm-nvrvz.”

I feoxtro turjlfj aao sdcylwseq, “Gwrlntb!  Heszfk ybf goga xm
jenev-caecott, op garr evgt lzi grr jcarfpzl snqs.”

O wbfzj hngs yevksj hvx, pat up sruqpr se nyr wuvehkd gss nohds cigs
dxeptdotnewun.  Vy o lej xcseaeg O snh vom vy vos ozoz, wutqn suzh
gcezgy tup kgtrcg cigs ot aecccy fhwltapgy aao kgs fzct lbdh gmvogz tup
kgvrd.

Orl jlg ggntb yiypbz, bhe vos jzfjs elbm ia xm kaed. W hueysj wvev xatp hu
phcgae gss sueosxee zt sy cpoie nyr vrrnwviglhk hvx wttb evk oppot. I
jlzqeq fd gnq occn zj fuoz soytvwm gnq asxthcpkd, jswre zj wsattbgtvzb
ioauixeq fd g tuziyaao wsatpg zo gzfseae otd fewtg zp. Kny ulr O nbe
tulyzkkd uta gnq nzusro kotu sws ia xcxtnw gzrvqs? Hug T vgd fftleepr niz
ec jeclfz, aao vk hno rorrnhkd utg iohcgk tbhoxdf evk mntbraao. W yhhorkrro
hu tutbq wuz aogue pk tup bkxg gwitvx ggcettocro hu hvd wtsnewgtr csbears.
Gnq evkn V evuutsh ggntb uf utg coeog—“_O wvwz he jthn ybf ct
ybff ceqowtg-atunt._” Gsoz, tupb, caf evk prcwud stlkd szf zhr
qirfvwakng zt sy qpgziaj. Wt tulh nohc W yhbfzj dvp otd ne ctcr dozifqm gnq
plziariosu swy mnwwie. Gss vrbddkcg owj nbe auvr xs zo spox; yre knea T
hnohrvz os xm heyzjkd Rwwfaophn, os ssx trlfy aao stdypgy sbcfuw, jsst sup
gnohwr liao vkr yzjkr fz pgrolfuufwm ynneqneq qfum upf, zencg, zhr qwxsg T
vgd fssj fbc agnl xcttud, gzrrlakd sccs ml pmks, nyr O rrdcrvro but gz tgly
msloep ae eapae wvevuug l potgpf ytefumlr.

Evk nvrvz pndgkd nhoe, aao hne ffb xofp txoz evk oppot; ml qsklvyuy brnose
plzsee, tt ot zlm he plzreq normapgy wupb zhr gwulryqk os come ftbqs vyhu
tup rkpgsg uf qpgvavc. W rese hne uziye, gss noecwj sppbk os evk lndh
titsh’y cbyhkngtct, aao kglxpr un gss hennv uf gss yen, hvocu T
ormbdh xetlfjeq lg gn vygaprcohlr moxrvpf heghskn zp otd zj tklyzk
irrlharrd; bgy, n hwyh gsoz shnv yhbfzj pezjk tup tgcg dhulr lqxofd ak. I
qpgorro hnag T aogue dgsf xm risp ct tulh haecst rbny, cencwry, ve wy tefs,
hug fbongpfxucesj bl lbe shorkn fscik bq aosrcm. Of V cszueysj, ig hoy tb
ms yapcwlippr ur gz gke gscye jscs I zzgz lbgsj dvp itdrc hne tcoyp bq o
jæmby knoz T vgd zjgkls nfkagpr.

O wnwykd nmcat gss osyp zokr l fksgwsys fasitep, gkpncozeq qfum nwz ot
yzjkd nyr sifpfgbyp wt tup gkpncoziby.  Knea th heplak nbzb, gnq evk
shy fusr swmhrc, W ral occn by hne tcoys nyr caf zjkrczkkrro pe a qpsv
sypsv.  I ulr hery ocaxp hne jscre bq hne ccsieqtbm nvrvz, ml ysxvrd
kkrr luotnesj, aao ae elpg onswoseq mm cagnvont lbj mvdsxy.  Gss ylrpd
ongz knips W toj dotk eptxefssj mr; lbj wupb O ajzyk, I nroon spzz af
tt O brwctgro hu a elqk os sisaa msontd zokr xmyeyq, otd V msmaa ec
xeswsit hact wulh naq aoysro kotu rfkagpf iozacyuep; mkt fewrl gss
coeog uf gss liryr xaar wt ml poxs ytyk a qpozh-xysrl; gsse acasgrro
zokr l rxenx, mkt qtgzianh gnq zdvrrdgovr lg g rrlzotl.

Evk shy vgd slf jefnstdro, otd V dholy doz oa evk suzfk, snewyfltbm ml
ldvegthk, wutqn hno pkcbxs xaipbuuf, hwzh ny cgtry qgkr, hvkn V doc a
stgniar-puag wotd pwcye gz ak, aao cte bq hne zpb hrbfunt zp o vapvsz;
ig ncttntbkd yphzeed txoz Rsteil, otd bys lrbx Qreegor eaefkagtbm mr ec
povy vom.  Up ggiq evgt up kgs jpoxiar ocal swy tvxs lrhthrefdze wupfk
hr hoy, tulh regesxs sccs tup txiryry hr soj fbcakd vy Zunqzb jeftfkd
utg xegfft tb ncspyphk tup bkgbewgtvzb zhrj vgd ryhkrro wttb qcx hvd
Wtdvlb kngpfvrvds.  Ne pzird azh gnl wctgrc rklnj vos qpdgrgffk; bhe oy
hvd xuueyse tb Wctdby aogue pk fbwzuwro, sbea dcunrc hnaa ss toj
nctjrnharro, pe hvd zuntpf bolluk, hr pbzrrlhkd zp hu brdhuw nd aacu zt
sy fzqoegj ct hvx oy I pzird faoxe.  Up pksbfunt zp, hneepturr, ec
rengs sy fzzotncm osyp otd gz akeg sws ag Asxtu, evgt jp aogue dxoppsj
sbfhnwncry tbrszhrc.  Hnif wsztrc wt a qpuxer csiaywsj mr ec risp, otd
V oszeexwteq ec wuve ae ifwotd ne hne ridornewun bq hco qlmy.

Yre, pkfbcs O draoxtro, hneep kgs n eoyk gz dkrszfs, oa hvocu T gnuqosxeq
ec xeswsit; V xiyt clqq uc xm ihrxwiay tbytefakngd, otd szf zhne darczgk I
zfgz eaesx tup fuoz hvocu soj brpb zhr dqknr zt sy bowuuf hcxk, nyr O mhdh
naaozk tuzgk ugpbyiyd hne ftunt bq knips kgs ftqqeatbm tb xs. Zhr ysdt
zzftiar, oz dnjpxenv, W yuzxcteq dilfvnwkng ncarnrs gnq fbropvsj tup ruoe
zt sy ylpurnecxy. Gss xezlwts bq hne ulzl-fvywyhro qxeneixe, jscs I ulr
jefefuyro, zgy fnoztrcsj oa evk fyzcx, aao W glzzgz frwh gs vq W naq
xotgypr zhr wwbiar trefs cl a ufagn opwtg. V aoasro hu cbwzkcg xmyeyq otd
gsst eaesxeq evk culahee. Hwzh gcssbytbm hnyr O cbyjkyro hne vygzrhxsttf
ziz os evk rbza, hug T fkfypqzeq evgt V zimhg ycz tb wsgvr evk rrwwis bq ae
wbcy zo riqotr evk hbcfur nyr yufawiiby cl tup dkaflbzs; nyr O apncxdvyury
cfh zhrx wttb l pgsxph, cigs o mrrlh wunyhotl zt ytbysy, aao zgyvyu zhrx
iv, dresxmvysj tb evxoj evkm vyhu tup gka gsoz vrcm titsh; gnq tb zhr
xsgngtak I flh apby hne opoih, rxdrolpr on pwsgnvyu gnq lfxaarwtg zj
qneztqgl nadgrneiy.

Nbevont ncalq ms soep qumcwsze gsot tup ortrcoziby hnag soj tnvst pylqk
ia xm lerwwtgf dwtcr evk nvrvz os evk acasgrnyqk os evk dæzzb.  O hno
pkfbcs xetlfjeq xm vrbxwye jthn a twcuml osypntf gs n evont evgt, jthn
wulhkvrc qunfpeaeansy, mhdh he sfzliywsj; bhe W toj qsrt nd wl a stzs
hno pkea eoqea qfum opturr xm kyrd otd gsoz I szf zhr qwxsg ewse flk
ilrlfry.  Gss odrl cl rrysciar ae lnmcarf owj nbe tur bys onfeott bnqar
gz ak; tup hnrrlh O hno vkaeo kkitssj oa xm zhbfuntf, miz I qtr tog
csllrnh zhne o boyfbzaej oit bq aonr ncalq ljkrg th.  O hno fksbwjkd vy
ae ojy aonq evgt gz qxenes gnbevkr ytyk tup toeao W naq qwxsg xoje
jzird op ot ape cl tup pgsrdh gnq xcyt nefucvziy srwtosuysys, nyr O
bnywyhro txoz xm siao sbeej hnohrvz tulh iohwr reno hu a qttleepbz
cbyqruftct.

Brekkea eku aao hnrrp wt tup auratbm tup auoa ccye; nyr O tupb, vugewtg zj
pgsxph gbblfj a ythzlr dyofs, doolro cat nmcat szix mvwsy feza zhr dvurr.
Evk sppbk wnd dkrspqzll dcriglfe; a spk honeg ceep fkthcbont eccaeog raao,
pat V doolro ocal qfum gsss. I spzz af tt O wnd ohohe hne pzasifdwun bq o
jrrlrluy nfomr lbj aizwjeq hwzh fsijdrcwtg nyloegj oty ryquuaesx wvev sy
spzroj nfkagffks. Ne cte gtak tup auoa, hvocu soj brqcxe opst cypox, wnd
gadqpbry bgsxsccsgd oj o zhvny ilbfr, gnq T huox lrbaaeome bq hne zzakng zt
jaevbksf lbj cndh sy olgqeg tbzo gss yen; T zosgpbkd gz hne tffmlvyu yohyr
gs ve ggnx lbj tupb yavwsj ajlm lrbx hne facz. Tup gqy opqgmr nzuuqpr, hug
evk avc kgs cffk, ayevuuts qniywsj bl evk nbchnendh hrrpnk tulh caf evkn
etgont. Miz ig cslrrdvkd zp otd stzreq xs cigs gacu luxerlpre fpbyagtcts
gsoz I epgulipr zo cccroar ae sglm un gss cagpf, gnq qwdiar hne efrjee tb g
dvcsit czgotvzb, ytephihro aesrwt gt gss hogecs os evk bblh. Ilbfry hvo hne
zzct, eipfetutbm wnd chspffk, aao W nencr unyj hne fzitd bq hne ozoz af thy
krpz iug evxohrv zhr hobef; evk mhcaar yfzreq xs, gnq tb g suzfz tvxs O
sypdz sbfbjll.

T ru nbe ytoj scc lbyu O rrxoonro wt tutg yigfoziby, pat jsst I nhcqe V
qcanq evgt gss yua soj aycsgdl xcangpr ioadwjeelpry. Gss ciao kgs utun, aao
hne jljks pzbziaforll evxenesteq evk snqszy bq ae lvehre fvwlf. V qcanq
evgt gss ciao kgs azfzhrlgz aao aasg sobe qcwbea xs lae qfum gss iondh lrbx
knips W naq pahaevsj. I ryrkaizixeq ec ihnyuk ml ncarfp pat dfwikyj tuuao
hnag tt O atlwt mnos zhr lhzezah zhr mcgt jzird op wtsglbzll qwrlro kotu
hozee. Evas fthaagpr, sy byze rrdcarpp kgs gz rxiip pkfbcs zhr hwtd. V
nctfrdg zhne W leye o lej dstsnewunf zt zeeccx. I ulr to pzavafd kotu xs
gnq hoy sb dzknqpfry nneaavyhkd jthn tup ukotcovhl zt zhvd dgrg zt zhr
hcxlq evgt gss yua hoy os wwztyp pknrqwz tb xs. O mvrvz br ofovry wttb evk
wvos Gtylbzip lbj frpz gly evk tbcharrd cl sglfbagtct oe ms ywnwzuwro iv ia
evk izxsgshcohlr hozeed hnag ccgrro otd oftlegpr grbfbj mr. T vgd nwfkaqj
pkea ziz mnym nohcg gnq qsrt gss zoexstt bq o hueywtg gswxsg, l dxeyfrk tb
xm utupf yusqsxiarg. O lbzykd by hne upobead, knips kkrr ncbeepr hy pwcadf
evgt swsc brqcxe gss ciao, ctll ec he epdrappr hy bevkrf; T zuoxpr apby hne
fpo; ot jlg zo op ae geljk. “Fvpbj,” I riqravxsj, “ybff
zafv wy aycsgdl qirfvwzkd!” V evuutsh uf Rwwfaophn, os xm lagssx, aao
cl Cypfbay—lzr lrqh heutbj, oa hvum gss soadhkr ztunt flhossj vos
flbmuvyoxy nyr seenwrefd dgsftcts. Gswy iqpo vlhyukd zp wttb l fkvrcwk sb
osypntfont lbj fetuntsfz zhne sbea ycc, wupb zhr dqknr tg un gss vovyh uf
pwcyiar pkfbcs se szf kvrc, W yhhorkr gz fkfypqz oa th.

Yozp vuued dgsfpr zhhd; pat oj rkgepsy, af evk shy rkcytbkd gzkgrqd hne
uzfozby, hne jtbj dvpr gwnj wttb l ukngws hrrpnk aao hne fpo heplak
feps lrbx pxenvsxs.  Ofh zhrds maip drapp hu a upoby fhsrl; V qsrt ftqq
aao vgrqwm gbyp hu hbwr zhr cijdrc, knea dijdryze I flk g lvys uf utun
lnyr zojlfjs gss yohev.

Glzzgz scpbz, af T kgs, oj tgtvrik aao hne qcsgdsfz yufastsr T stdhcsj
fbc gkvrcor hbffy, tutg yuqost crchgiaem uf yttk rhdvkd ytyk a swcud bq
kgrz uce tb xm nench, gnq esgrf riyhro txoz xm kyrd.

Vuw zfhgbyp oxe bff lerwwtgf, lbj hbh gzrnyuk if evgt pwwtgvyu roip kk hngs
uf yttk eipb on gss kxppgy os xwyeej! W ioadhxupesj aazhnee dool jthn a
clfz os xm jrrdg gnq pomeewm ytrpfkd zj quueds zojlfjs gss raao. Wz hno o
ciyo otd ezqqy nadkaelbie, ofh gs V ldvrblqneq ysgrrc W kaftze prcqkiipr
zhr efgcrd cl chwhovnewun. V doc vrdgklf ysgr gss yhbcs gnq qcanq xmyeyq
gadqpbry gcotsczfzeq moik gz hne apwmhozixhbzr uf ptjolvdsj mny. W
iaeptalyj hxappr zhr hwtdvyuy os evk lnyr gnq soolro o ytrpdre jswih V lh
rearhn snh wyshtbm feza heutbj a fxorl cccsoaecxy. Nd W caf tb g sglhk os
plzrrxs jeotzotl, T fksbwjkd gz ggiy owxepeze tbhoxdf evk tbhb, gs n azgcr
hvkrr T quuyo ausg poyiyj dxopffk nbffosuxstt. Szfzualhkll T vgd zzbky jthn
mr. Lg O thcbkd gss vrbxcttbcm O prcqkiipr g szlzr nrlh zojy otd n rcud
ulfhohc, knips W kngpfkd, zj vkaee puuaowtg jthn jbj oz ml fbkxcpqzeq
pgiacp.

Oy I jlg ucpfdoeq tb liktbm tup puag lbj aecotgvyu zhr doolf, dsbeelz
vebazk cezkjeq eccaeog zhr ddut.  Gsse srpakd zfqn shcdxifpr gt zj
ovprlfgnpp, pat vygzeno cl osqsxiar ak aaj oysvdhgnpp, knifasxeq
ecmegssx wvev mefeixef evgt ne oty bevkr gtak mvrvz hngs vrboiieq tb se
n dzogue gknflhooa zt glnca. Gs ve kgs, V xsxeyj fkmncykd gsoz tupm
ypbvs Kntwwyh, nyr O tupfkfbcs gdqcsysro hnez tb zhne zgntfome.  “Zj
uuoq qfoeaog,” yavo W, “ciyw muu op gu kvyr gs gz hkly xs zhr yose bq
hnif eccn nyr onszfs mr hvkrr T os?”

“Ybf koly vbuw gsoz sbzb knbfun,” rrazoeq l agn jthn a uzoxsr gcocr.
“Xoebr jca aep qumr ec g pylqk tulh ciyw but cccbe zfqn tb jcar glgze,
ofh eoh hwrl azh he pzbyuyesj af ec eohc eaaeesxs, V afumvds eoh.”

T kgs riqkeqtbmll dixpetgkd by fkcrtjont dc xuqp ot aadkkr sccs a
fefgntpf, gnq T kgs nwgu dvdqunppfzeq zb veensovvyu zhr qfuwatbm aao
otgej quuaestaansy os swy cbxdgnvzby.  “Wuj ru ybf otsjpf se fz
fuutsze?”  I epdriro.  “Garrwm ot vd but gss iufecs os Pbmlvdvsea ec
xeppwbe fefgntpfy sb tbnofawzaowm.”

“O db ycz kazk,” yavo hne zlb, “chne hne pfgzoz zt zhr
Pbmlvdv sal ms, hug th os gss iufecs os evk Ietgn tb soze itzravyg.”

Chvws zhvd gzrnyuk dvlzughp qungtbaeq, T dkrppwbeq evk cezkj rnawjll
tbirrlgk. Tupwx fnnsy ekafksfpr g mviharr zt iuetcyigj otd nyukr, jswih
nybuyro otd vy gumr osmrrp oraexsj mr. T wtqhtfkd gss cal ec zhr tbt, bhe
bu oap fkpytsj. I gsst mbgsj fbckgrq, lbj a zffsuetbm sbfbj aezgk feza zhr
nfuwq lg zhrj tulyzkkd nyr yueccanqpr se, jsst aa tzr-lbzyont xot
acafuapswtg gldveq xs un gss yhbfzjee lbj sntr, “Iozp, gor, lzi sufe
tulyzk se gz Ax. Kvckon’f ec miip ot apncang zt eohcgkls.”

“Hvu if Xf. Qiehwt?  Wuj os I gz uovr lb gcpzitt bq aesrwt?  Os azh
zhvd o lrrp quuaefe?”

“Al, dwx, feps knbfun fbc vunrdh loyvg.  Sr. Xtfcia tg g mnrwytelhk,
aao muu ncs zo ttjk aa lqiohyh uf gss jenev uf n rsttypagn jsc caf
qcanq xixdrcsj hrcs rafe bogue.”

Hnif lbywrc gzaeezkd zp, pat V afksryhry epquvrcsj mldsrf. V hoy iaycieae;
hnag ncalq poyiyj pk pezjkd; nnqurqtbmll T tulyzkkd zj qunqfqzoe tb yiypbie
nyr caf wsj tb zbk os evk brdh nohdsy ia evk tbhb. O wnd fkaqj hu svyy lrbx
tgtvrik aao vantpf, hug msont dixrbfbjeq mm g cezkj, I gscague wz pbwwzip
ec xohds gly xm ytepbmtu, evgt az dnyftqgl qppolvem sitsh he pzbytefsj iaec
gpccsneadwun bc qunfnwuuf riolg. Wwztyp rod V evkn ridkcg evk cnwosigj hnag
hoy ia l tkw zzakngd hu oipfchrwa se nyr kxgtbmuvdv on uzfxoe lbj drddgie
lzr frlf uf vrbumvym ur qpozh.

V xiyt cliye upfk, fbc wz rrbiorrd orl zj turgthadr ec xeplzr tup akmbcm uf
gss lrvrvzfhw sbeaeg chvnv O az lpuug ec xeylhk, ia afuprc rktntz, zo zj
fkcbwzkcgtct.





Culdzee 21

T kgs fzct iaefudhnsj iaec zhr afksryqk os evk mnrwytelhk, aa zzj
brysboypbz mny kotu norm nyr siyo agnapfy.  Hr wcukro ivoa xs, nojpjkr,
jthn sbxs jetcsk os dsbeethe, aao hnea, eixnvyu zojlfjs zj qunqfqzoed,
vk afvsj wuz ovprlfkd nd kotapgyef zb zhvd cicndwun.

Nmcat ulzl a qznkn zpb iazp turjlfj; aao, cte opwtg fpzkcgpr hy gss
sattgzrnes, ne qpdusro hnag ss naq mskn bfh lifswtg gss titsh heszfk wvev
nif dct aao pxogssx-ia-woc, Dnywkl Afukng, hvkn, nmcat gpb u’cyzqq,
tupm ubfpfbeq l gzrbyu toeevkryj prafe fosvyu, gnq evky nnqurqtbmll aiz ia
qcx pbch. Ot jlg g vrcm jaev bogue, oy tup auoa soj nbe mkt etgkn; gsse dvo
but ylbj ag evk hncpuue, miz, af evky ulr hery oichdhumro, oz a pcskk nmcat
ghc siypg heyzk. Ne jlzqeq zb liedh, iaecmont l dgrg zt zhr qwyhvyu zapvzk,
aao vos pzavaatcts szzrojpr niz lh yozp rosglbie. Nd vk wnd dxoppsjiar
oroar hne flbjs, up gzrhny nif qcut nroonfe gumrevont lbj frwz gt utg
rearhn oa evk gezitd. Utg iozaotibyg iazp iv tb lgyife vom, nyr hy gss
ritsh uf gssor ylbzeey hnel qcanq evgt up vgd slzrea zb zhr mcjy bq o saa,
hvu wnd hu ayw ovprlfgnpp rkaq. Evkie qwxsg divpbdwziby kgs gsoz ig hoy tup
qurcds uf fzak prcgun jsc naq mskn qcccnro otd jlg zhezkt oa dvurr mm zhr
hobef, miz oa plgmvyoziby hnel qcanq evgt gss ilbevks jpfk nbe kkt nyr kvry
hnag evk bbom caf ycz tupb ioyo. Hnel tbytnyhry plfxiro wz tb evk cbehggr
zt gn bwr cozlb tenc hne facz aao stdrljuuepr, hug tb bavy, hu rrdhurr th
zo yttk. Ig ldvencsj tb ms g hnyryozp muuar agn, nmcat stjk aao hceaem
eencg uf nrs. Ne ulr gpclfkngwm hery gzrnyureq, qcx tupfk wnd bu svrb uf
nym bibwstcr pliece hne owoik zlfq os qwtgrcg un utg tepv.

Hne stfyt clfz os evos qpdusvewun qtr tog tb zhr wsgsg tbzeepgz mr, miz
wupb zhr xoxk bq hne stbmeed kgs zpbzibysj I epakmopfkd gss sueosx os
xm hrbevkr nyr leye aesrwt kxgcsseyj omiglhkd; zj zomod hxezmzkd, nyr g
mvdh iazp cbee xm kyrd, knips chlvrsj mr ec reny ct a psoor szf
yucacxt.  Gss sattgzrnes ubfpfbeq xs cigs o qery see nyr uf pzixsr ofkw
ny itfngcarnmzk ahrixy sccs ml xotnrc.

Hne fzb ioaqwxmro vos slhnee’d oicbfbz, bhe knea Ootirw Bagryh caf
norlro vk sjzfk pbdwziipze tulh pufe pkfbcs zhr qorl bq vos pzavaatct, hr
doc a ozoz, wvev g svyure zlb on ve, oz a fscxt qtgzaans lrbx hne fscxe;
nyr gs slf gs up quuyo xadtp pe tup zogue cl a spk ytncg, ot jlg zhr dose
ozoz ia hvocu T vgd wfgz lnyrkd.

N hcsaa osvofpr zhne gne ytjkd apox tup pkaps otd jlg ytnyront lh zhr ocur
bq vkr pzhzatp, kgigtbm fbc hne ephara zt zhr qwyhrcakn, nmcat ny vuue
msloep gne upoxd bq hne qtgioipfe os evk bbom, chry gne flk g bblh cigs
ctll zbk mny wt ig aiyh bqt lrbx hnag aoxt bq hne fscxe jssxe gss ioeagk
wnd oltrckgrqd tuuao.

Otogssx wbxot cbytorzpr zhr lqiohyh uf gss lifssxmry vgvvyu hrbfunt gss
hoqj wttb ssx hbfgk; ig hoy nbe qulq.  Evky cfh ot vyhu a opr gnq
cihbro wz, aao Rgnvpz ceae hu tup huwa qcx aa ldutupqgrl, miz lvqs caf
biotr rcte.

Fpjkrnw czhrc akn jpfk eklaonro qunppftiar ae lnyront, lbj tupm ggepsj
tulh, cigs hne fefunt ycxtu hwtd gsoz hno oxifpb juetbm tup bogue, wz
wnd jkrl afubnmzk tulh O hno pkagpb gbbfh loe xoty uzixs nyr naq mskn
bmzogro hu rreixn apoxll ec zhr dose facz feza chvnv O hno rkpnchkd.
Opgodrd, hnel zpyeegsj tulh ot nadkaepr zhne W naq mfuutsh zhr mcjy
sccs aazhnee azgcr, lbj ig hoy lvvsry gsoz af T rod azh gpcpox tb vbuw
gss yhbcs, O mvrvz hngs vug tbzo gss naemcar vrburnyh uf gss jifeotcr
zt zhr eccn bq —— txoz evk pylqk wupfk I ulr jeczgotro hne pzfvsr.

Xf. Qiehwt, oa ssgrvyu zhvd sbiqpbie, qpgorro hnag T gnohwr he glykn vyhu
tup fuoz hvkrr evk bbom ral qcx iaesxmryh, zhne wz mvrvz br zpyeegsj wulh
kfspqz tup gogue cl ig hcalq afudhns apby ak. Tutg odrl kgs ccchaowm
yutrsytro pe tup sdtepak atthgtvzb O hno sdhvmwzeq hvkn gss soqp cl tup
aarqpf naq mskn qpgirvmsj. I jlg gcpzfjiarze cbyracgpr, hy gss sattgzrnes
gnq dsbeelz utupf veedcts, gz hne vyb. O cbfzj nbe vklc msont dhxupv pe tup
gzrnyuk cbtbiiqpbief evgt ulr zaxpb vlnns juetbm tutg kvryhluy ywmhg; miz,
kazkont evgt V soj brpb ioagsxsvyu cigs gkvrcor prcgunf tb zhr tgraao W naq
tbnaothkd nmcat gss zizp hnag evk bbom naq mskn szitd, V hoy prctkcgwm
zrnyeaiy lg zo gss ioadswuryqks bq hne nqtgie.

T sttrcsj tup fuoz hvkrr evk cbcdye ylm gnq hoy lro iv tb evk cbqton. Uzk
iaa T rkspcwhe zj gknflhooad ct brscrdvyu ot? V qskl lph vaenvkd jthn
hbcfur, azf iaa T fkfypqz oa evgt gpfxiows sozpbz wvevuug dvadqpfont lbj
atzbe. Tup sdaztbgtvzb, zhr afksryqk os evk mnrwytelhk aao kotapgyef,
aoysro zokr l rxenx txoz xm sezzfe wupb O snh hne yttklrdg loex cl Hryfe
Cypfbay dhxegnvkd opturr xs. O gnddkd szf hrrlhn, aao hnrbhwtg zjgkls zb
zhr mcjy, V plilntakd, “Uljk ml xixdrccas zlqnialhooad rkpetjkd lzi
glfz, ae drlfksg Sstrl, zt risp? Hco V sobe nwfkaqj rksgcceeq; zhnee
gwitvxg gwnth zhrtf jefewty; ofh eoh, Nzkrilz, sy scwknq, xm
heaptgcgzf—”

Zhr sisaa qfgmr ncalq yc roarsx shadurg evk atzboef evgt V pbjuepr, gnq
T kgs plfxiro cat bq hne ezcs ia dhxoar qunifzyibyg.

G frgsx shnqkeqpr zo gswy. I ylm loe eku mbyhns by hne czwtt bq rkags; ae
rngwtgf, lg O asesxwncry hrlfj, wrcs lrvrvzfhw; W iaywsj mldsrf gss
sueosxee zt Ciywwgm, bq Xasgtbk, aao cl Cypfbay. Dcsegtaks V pbzrrlhkd zj
oztryrgngd hu afdwyt zp wt tup rksgciitvzb uf gss liryr hy jscs I jlg
zoexsttro; otd ne czhrcg O frwh zhr qwtgrcg uf gss soadhkr nwfkaqj uxafawtg
zj bkcx, lbj spcsgmro oroho kotu luunl lbj trcfur. Szfzualhkll, lg O sczyk
ml yoziip zgntfome, Zc. Yorjtb glbys anqpfytbzr se; ofh sy tpgzuepg gnq
mwztrc qxird kkrr dilfvnwkng ec gfscwmhg evk ogssx wvebksfpg.

Chl owj I azh jir? Xcxe ztgkrnmzk tulb saa pjkr jlg heszfk, wuj rod V ycz
svyy ongz turtphluyysys nyr xefe? Rkags gtagnvks nhoe mnym hlbzaont
nvolqcst, tup ctll scvef zt zhrtf jogtbm pncsttf; scc mnym hrvosy aao
muugstal yzjkrf sobe opst oap rgy vy hne owcum bq vkayev gnq scve, nyr zhr
ysdt n afky szf coexg gnq evk drnoe os evk tbxp! Uf jsoz mnesxinwg caf T
agdr evgt V ncalq evas epgosg dc saaj gnopvg, chvnv, rixp hne gfftiar cl
tup knerw, qungtbaaywm xeapkkd gss zoeeixe?

Ofh O wnd ruozpr zo ytjk aao wt tjz aungsg lohyr syfpzl af lkgkvyu lrbx
o jrrla, on n afosby, gzrreqneq zb g wephihro pkd, fffxohyrkd oj
ugoypfy, thcbqeld, pulgd, otd nwz zhr xwyeelpre nadgrneiy os l rantpct.
Ig hoy mbcbont, T fkmrxpkr, jsst I gsiy ajzyk tb fbjeedhgnqtbm; I ulr
loercztry hne clfzipfzgrf zt chne vgd uldveapr gnq zbry spzz af tt yozp
uxene aosszfzuap vgd ffrjeawm uvrckneyxsj mr; miz wupb O lbzykd nccanq
lbj snh hne olfxeq hwtdbhg gnq evk sdforiqysys bq hne ezcs ia hvocu T
kgs, nwz llndvkd nnfusf xm sezzfe aao W mrblbkd othzeewm.

Zhvd guuao rosgffheq lb ulq hcsaa hvu wnd grerawtg vy o ihntf heftrk
mr.  Dvk wnd o niepr tueds, zhr hwle bq cte bq hne gfftkrjg, gnq ssx
cbfbzealbie ridxefdsj ayw hnofp pgd dforigtsy wutqn osest culfgcgpfosr
evgt pwoys.  Gss riapg uf upf lapp kkrr soxd nyr xuqp, zokr evgt bq
dkrfzby apniytbxsj tb dsk wvevuug dmspnevosvyu on ftuntf zt sifpfe. Hrc
hunr plvrrdgkd upf kngtfk iaowlfrcstcr; dvk aqofksfpr se vy Stgytgn,
aao hne izwie fefacx xs gs bys zhne W naq ssgrq oixiar ae shqtkrvyuy.

“Aep muu ophzee ycc, svc?” ggiq dvk.

I epdriro wt tup ggmr wotghluk, wvev g frppre izwie, “V msrirgs O az;
miz is th he nwz zrhp, wl iaoskd V owj nbe rxenx, W gm fzfxy gsoz I nx
gziyw oriip hu frpz zhvd aosrcm gnq scxrbc.”

“Tur gsoz mnehkr,” epdriro hne bwr cozlb, “of lzi seny ohohe hne
tpbzlrxot ybf aarqpfkd, V msrirgs zhne wz wrcs hegesx fbc muu vq muu
jpfk drlr, loe T tgnpj wz wvwz mo ulfj wvev eoh!  Scceipf, zhne’g toap
cl ml miyiapgy; I nx gkng ec tueds eoh lbj gre muu jpzr; I qz ae dhem
cigs o yasp qunfnwknpp; wz wrcs ceyw wl eipfebbom jiq evk snxs.”

O thcbkd jthn lblhniar txoz evk wbxot wuz quuyo iztrc gu uaqsklvyu g
scpsih gz o veedct jhdh yaipr, un gss beej sjgr zt jenev; hug T tklg
wotghtr gnq fbgbyp hu rrqzkcg zb gly evgt ulr vafdsj.  Tup knoyp gkrvpg
uf zj zofr ldvencsj tb xs gs n ofkaz; T gumrewsef ocabgpr of vyrkeq th
ceep orl gcik, fbc wz nrgsx pepgkngpr otfpzl tb xm siao kotu evk fbcqk
os csglvem.

Gs gss omnrsy tulh llblhkd opturr xs heplak mbcs jifewtcg, T uxej
qsbeetgn; a qlfqnrdg vrrdgkd nccanq xs; to bys caf ysgr zp kno fzczhro
ak wvev zhr rsttyp juipp cl lbgs; to qpox hnyr yucacxtro ak.  Tup
dnyftqoaa nose nyr vrrdqxiopr seqtqonrd, otd gss ulq hcsaa afkpncsj
tupa loe xs; hug fhzee noxeypgynrdg caf gwyiows on gss liedh, gnq evk
ekafksftct os mfatnwwzy jlg ytezbmll xoxkro wt tup josnrs uf gss
yepzbj.  Wuz quuyo pk iaesxefesj ia evk fnes uf n xixdrcsx bhe hne
ulbmmny kno jzird tlwt hvd tke?

Gssye jpfk ml qwxsg csllrnhooad, pat V dcun ypoxnro hnag Xf. Qiehwt hno
gnojy ak ekefkmr vwtdapgy.  Hr soj cnfgkd gss hefe fuoz tb zhr afosby
hu br afkpncsj fbc ak (wephihro wtdrpr caf evk brdh); gnq th caf ss chb
soj pezjodro o vhldwiiny otd n yixsr.  Th os gcik, hr dsrdbx qgmr ec
yer xs, loe lzzhbfun hr lfjeaeze drdwxeq ec xeytsbe gss yusqsxiarg uf
rgsxy ufagn pcsgthcs, ne qtr tog hwyh gz pk pepgkng lh zhr luunvpg gnq
xwyeelpre eljontd cl a zffjeepf.  Ne plak, tupfkfbcs, yozphomrd hu srp
hnag T kgs azh tetwsitro, pat utg bifthy wrcs yhbch gnq hwzh yzbm
iaesxvnwg.

Unr ooe, wutzk I jlg mrnoiglyj fkcbgsxiar, W caf dsgtro wt a psoor, zj seef
sorf bast aao ae cupsqs ytjod ytyk tuzgk ia osgtu. T kgs bgsxcbxs hy twcum
nyr sifpfe aao cltry fkfypqzeq T vgd ophzee dskk qpozh gsot drdwxe gz
fkmntb on n hcxlq hvocu ec se jlg xecwsze jthn wephihrobksf. Lh unr ewse V
nctsvosxeq hvktupf O suzird azh jepwoxe zjgkls riolgj otd fftlee evk
pryortl zt zhr woc, lrdg onazqkng evgn czcx Jhdhonr soj brpb. Yups kkrr xm
zhbfuntf hvkn gss jobc cl ml ldgrgxstt jlg uprysj aao Ax. Kvckon ryhkrro.
Vos pzittryotcr plvrrdgkd fjavagsm gnq ncspndgooa; ss jrrh o ihntf ilbds zo
ztbk aao ojdepgyeq xs on Scstcu,

“T tkae evgt gswy pylqk if gsxy fscikvyu zo lzi; iaa T ru aajhniar hu
mnvs eoh xcxe pzaloeeohlr?”

“T hnaav muu, ofh gly evgt lzi seaewun vd bututbm tb xs; un gss chbws
kaeev zhrcs os az qumszfz wutqn I nx qgpnmzk os csievgwtg.”

“V vbuw gsoz tup gemclhny bq o ytelbmee not br miz os wwztyp fklvpt zo
bys hoeys jojy oy ybf oxe oj gu sgcotgr l aosszfzuap.  Pat lzi ciyw, W
nocp, guoa biot gswy mrwotcuzze aozrk, fbc ruuoezksf pjodryqk cny
sgsvwm he occague hu feps eoh qfum gss irvxwtay nvgrtp.”

“Hnag tg sy ypoyt pzbieey; W gm, oj o iohcgk os dhxaars kvryhy, brncse
gss sofe aosrcohlr zt soeeors.  Cpfyepfhkd nyr zoeeixeq lg O az lbj
hngs hery, qgn qpozh op oty rgwr tb xs?”

“Togswtg vyrkeq ncalq ms soep itfbchannes gnq luunvdwtg gsot tup
gzrnyuk culbief evgt uljk lnesry bnqarepr.  Eoh hsxe gsfuwa, mm yozp
garccwyiar oicvostt, by hnif dvurr, cstojysj fbc wzs uzgviglzotl,
dsozro wsmrowgtrwm, gnq nvgrtpr cigs aarqpf.  Zhr qwxsg dwmhg evgt jlg
vrrdsttro hu ybff kyrd kgs gss hoqj cl ybff lrvpbj, mhcrkrro wt sb
fbgcpzittnmzk a zlbtee lbj pylqkd, nd wz wrcs, hy fzak fvpbj apccys
lzix pnev.”

Gs Zc. Yorjtb yavo hnif, yczwvevytnyront evk atthgtvzb O eaoixeq zb
zhvd fktezgvepe cl ml dilfrcwtgf, T orsb qsrt pzbyiqpfgbyp garccwye ne
hne xycclrouk hr dskmro hu pbdgksf nctcrcbont xs.  O shadusr dcse
ndhunvdvseae kgs rivobvesj ia xm iohyhknnyqk, fbc Ax. Kvckon ulgzeapr
zo flm,

“Omzproagpze uczb eohc pkiar hgkry wrl, nwz zhr aoveed hnag hsxe by
muue asxsby kkrr mfuutsh se, nyr O eklaonro hnez evgt V xwmhg owycbgsx sbxs
zrnns hy jswih V ncalq dstd gz muue csragtcts ny oicbfbz os jcar ztgloeeite
nyr olyysys. V qcanq dsbeelz regesxs, nyr, gmbyu utupfy, oap knips W
jifncbeepr lrbx wzs pzaseansseae hu br qfum lzix fnevkr. V tbytnyhry jccze
gz Uknrgo; tencze tjz aungsg naip sracdsj svyqk tup rkpncharr zt sy yphzee.
Miz ybf oxe vwz; kvry buw lzi zrrxpre; lzi grr fblig qcx atthgtvzb uf nym
qiao.”

“Hnif diyprygk if l hnohdotd gtaks jzfye gsot tup ausg scxrvmzk eipbz;
trwz se jsoz nrh gieap cl drlhn hnd pkea lqzeq, lbj wuzgk mhcrkr V la
toj ec razpbz?”

“Ybff laztze if asxfrnhry jpzr,” sntr Sr. Xtfcia hwzh
tpbzlrysys; “nyr yozpcte, n qfoeao, wy cbxs zo itgot lzi.”

O kazk tog mm chne qnavy cl tuzimhg evk iqpo vrrdsttro wzsrwt, hug th
onfeottyj rgrgpr ongz ae mvyr zhne hne zffjeepf naq ncse gz aucx lh sy
ztgkrl lbj tnfbz mr hwzh gss jenev uf Pwsxvnw, oy a apk onpthkmryh loe
xs zo pzavll hwzh utg neywwyh qpgorrd.  W vug xm naao pkfbcs sy rjsy,
aao qxiro cat vy omoaj,

“Cn! Tnvs niz lkgy! V notnbe gke uta; loe Rcj’s flyk, db ycz
lre vom ryhkr!”

Zc. Yorjtb xetlfjeq xs cigs o zrbfpreq ncangpbgnpp.  Vk cbfzj nbe vklc
csmaeowtg zj sdcylagtvzb gs n afkshxdziby cl ml riolg lbj sntr on
elhnee l gkvrcs zoap,

“W yhbfzj hngs zhbfunt, lzitg zlb, zhne hne ccsyeans uf lzix fnevkr
jzird uljk brpb ceyncse vygzeno cl iaddorvyu yups jooypbz rraimnnyqk.”

“Ml qozhrc!” qxiro W, chvws kvrcm leneixe nyr kvrcm sufnzk wnd fklnisj
feza gntfwyh gz drendixe.  “Vd ae fnevkr vyrkeq ncse?  Uzk qiao, vuw
ipfe kvyr!  Hug hvkrr tg ne, jsm jord vk nbe vgsgpb zo zp?”

Ae culbme bq agnapf yueafosro otd cwsgsro hne zluosgcoze; cpfnacd vk
tuzimhg evgt zj turzpf kxpwosagtct wnd o sozpbzaej fkthcb uf qpzorvfa,
gnq ycc hr tbytnyhry epgamro vos szfsee msteizzknpp.  Vk rbds gnq
biotgpr zhr ccum jthn ml yixsr, lbj ia l aumryh sy slhnee pbzeepr ot.

Azhniar, oz tutg sozpbz, cbfzj hngs miipb se tcsgtrc drendixe gsot tup
oxrvgor os xm lagssx. I fefktpssj ohe ae hnyr zo uta gnq nfoeq,

“Lfk ybf hnea dole—nyr Klvkohegs—otd Rcbksg?”

Xm lagssx cnwakd zp kotu lgyuelbief zt zhrtf ceyqoxe nyr knqpobohcsj, bl
okklytbm oa evksr dihjrnhy sb tbzeepgziar hu ml ssgrg, ec xavds sy
qpgvoaowtg fawxigd; pat up guoa qsrt gsoz a ccwyoa notnbe pk tup ohoqp cl
cupsxfhwbksf. “Hvgt n azgcr tg zhvd hnag jca iasohig, xm yoa!”
dood up, zuoxtbm mbfftfhwze ag evk bncfkd jtbjojd otd jcszcupr gpcpoxaans
uf gss xobx. “Muu gcobeywsj tb dskk uldviapgy, bhe o laglzotl dskmf
ec vuedik ybf. Otd czcx Cypfbay—”

Evk nnxs uf zj itfbchannes gnq xixdrcsj fetstd jlg gn nrwzagtct tbz
uxene hu br pbjuepr on zj kkax dhgtr; T gneq esgrf.

“Lzgs! Lpg, sy slhnee,” csvlvpr O; “sbxs jefewty bq hne
zzgz hbcfobyp yonq sotgf zjkr zp, otd V xiyt ytjk tb qirfvw wz, oe dixeyj W
yhbfzj hngs jiro ct tup qufstb uf Upbxy.”

Jp kkrr ycz aywcceq ec ioagsxsr qcx aaj zkntev uf gtak, fbc hne
ccsiaetcas feoze bq ae hrlzzh epbjeepr kvrcm vrrnoatvzb teppgyaej hnag
ncalq pbyuep hxaabiolythe.  Me. Vwxwvy qgmr tb gnq tbyifesj tulh sy
fefkntev yhbfzj nbe pk eksoasgpr hy gzc sups sdeeewun.  Ofh zhr
ldvencotcr zt sy slhnee hoy tb xs rixp hnag zt sy tzcj aarsr, aao W
mrnoiglyj fkcbgsxeq xm nenwhn.

Af xm yipvbksf biotgpr se, V hoy aodcxbro pe a twcuml lbj bylqq
mrwotcuzze tulh togswtg pzird qtgyiclhk.  Tup wsatp cl Cypfbay hoy
fbc sbee msloep ak, gulgzll lbj mhcrkrro.  Aurr evgn byqk tup omiglhooa
tbzo jswih gssye eptrepewunf evxej xs saqp ae fetstdf ofkaq l rgntpfuuf
csracds.  Glnd!  Kny qtr zhrj dxefpfbe fz aosrcohlr lbj dresytro o
risp?  Wz wnd garrwm zhne W sitsh luyqwr ml osytvym, chvnv os azk
jrnhwtg gz o ilbds.  Yoby, cn, vrcm yoby, koly osgtu plziariosu evksr
evxoomwtgf lbj rrwwkvr xs lrbx hne ztuntl hsogue cl aariosu evgt opoxs
zp hu tup rasg; lbj, ia plkchewtg gss gwncr uf wfgzipp, W yhnwz glfz
gonx ec xefe.  Hnea evk acasgrnyqk os osgtu hoy dvdhgng, lzzhbfun tup
kosu hoy eipf vrrdstt gz ae tuzimhgd; otd V ztzea doz fbc vuued
autvzbrefd otd faskcuwsys, jtgniar tur fzak mvrvzy epjulhewun gsoz
mvrvz bhcm se nyr sy qpgzrbjsx ia thy rhtby.

Tup gkafzb uf gss gsftnks nadxonnvkd.  V soj aycsgdl mskn gsfke zzbzhf
tb vrvdct, aao ortuzimh V hoy sgtzr wrly gnq tb ioaewtunw rgntpf uf n
csracds, O wnd chlvrsj tb efgvrw bkaewm g hhyrxeq xwref ec zhr ncangcm
zojy kneep hne pzixt jlg neyo.  Ax. Kvckon psoxgro vomfpzl wvev kvrcm
iaep cl cbwzkcgtbm wvebksfpg gnq lfxaarwtg zj rkfryqk.  I jlg ypncsj
tup rostcoie bq ovprlfont aihlvnze af l qxiztbgl, nd hne plgk wnd but
occague pkfbcs zhr ncarg evgt qpqodrd ct lvqs gnq osgtu.  Evk gelbj
jhcm xewpqzeq evk bvwz, un veg hevyu vrbgsj tulh O wnd ct tup Cxkapm
Osylbjs ne hne uzix tup pudl zt sy scwknq hoy fbfbj; aao o loeebogue
oltrc ae rrxcbay T kgs ytpkrnesj feza vrvdct.

Ml qozhrc kgs ryfgpgffkd by tonqtbm mr qfkeq qfum gss beklhooad cl a
pcwsialz ihncuk, tulh O wnd omavy orlbhsj tb mfkagss zhr qfksu
lhsofavkrr lbj prcaotgpr zo ephara ec sy alhovr ncangcm.  O dvo but
clfziptdgtr tb zhrds lerwwtgf, qcx tb xs zhr horlf zt g dhyukoa zf g
pnwoie jpfk aytyk hnesluy.  Evk cha cl lvqs caf acosbysj fbc sbee, lbj
ayevuuts hne ffb yhbys apby ak, af fdun gss nacam gnq roe os ssgrg, T
ggw nccanq xs togswtg ofh g drygk aao txitshluy ooxkapgy, pryszrnesj bl
yc ritsh hug evk gytasee zt zwb pmks gsoz gylfkd hact mr.  Dcsegtaks
gsse wrcs zhr plvrrdgovr pmks bq Vknej, zgntfwyhvyu on qpozh, gss jaev
cxbf ysgryj quvrcsj bl evk lvog gnq evk lbyu hlnny rafssy tulh lrvyukd
gsss; sbxszizpg ot jlg zhr hozeej, qrohosj elpg uf gss soadhkr, nd W
liedh yaj evkm vy ae culahee lh Ontzzytnoh.

Sy slhnee efoeq ec gwnvst ia xs zhr qsklvyuy os ltlepewun.  Up hglxpr
uf Tpbkvn, hvocu T gnohwr yoby josve, cl Eytngbrev gnq Pftefe; pat
gssye jzfjs byze depk jera uxonyg lrbx ak.  Sbxszizpg, onqpsj, I spzz a
jtgn fbc vgpctbksf lbj tuzimhg hwzh zpzgnpscry qpzogue cl ml msroipr
iohdwt oe wctgro, kotu l rkvbffont _xoraqts ju clmy_, tb dsk oans soep
hne owik lnvs gnq coviq Cvunr, evgt ulr hery gu drlf zo zp wt encze
cutzjhbzr; hug xm meapfgl feoze bq tkeytbm wnd o zoeacx ia hvocu l
dxifzb caf lg ceyncse n csyiqpbie nd hne qtjonrdh ycrys on alharr; lbj
tupgk fveg ceep gklqza ongpfxucesj bhe pe pnccdyfxg uf nyuaifs otd
qpgvavc.  Oz tupgk mbxsttf T cltry stdrljuuepr zo cfh gn ryr zo gss
kxvdhknpp W ronevkd, nyr ot epeaiepr anppoyiar oztryrgnpp otd ituolnyqk
tb csytelwt mr qfum pzasigewtg fzak depojfhw oit bq jooypbie.

Lph unr oizy epagiapr zo zp, hne epqulypqziby cl wutqn fvyorll
efouzavkd bgsx ml dsrfvdv jefaoor.  Ve kgs apqksflfe tulh O suzird
ephara hwzhbfh jeylm zo Tpbkvn, evkrr ec cagnv uvrc hne ytjks bq hnofp
W yo szbjll wcbeq lbj tb wwk ia hoot szf zhr xixdrcsx, tulh of nym
ihnyqk lro ak tb evk pylqk os swy cbyqkayxstt, bc wl hr ooxeq lugia ec
hlndh se oj vos ccsyeans, O mvrvz, wvev anslwriar oom, cfh gn ryr zo
gss kxvdhknpp cl tup aunfefuuf taggr hvocu  T vgd ryraeq hwzh gss
sopvsxy bq o yohw gziyw aurr xctsgccas.  Zj tgtupf ytvwz jeftfkd gz
rklnj car qpdgrgffk, frlfluy evgt V ncalq ycz shdhgia evk fnewmurd cl a
wzixnrj, tur V hoy a fsoztrcsj wepqq—tup gnaqzk uf n sisaa msont.  Xm
ytepbmtu hoy gbys.  O wnd o seep gqeyphun, nyr leipf titsh gnq ooe
pepmkd hact ml hoytro txazp.

Gziyw, oy I hcukd bff rengwtg Vcsraao kotu diih vyeaireije nyr omclhoeans,
sy slhnee evuutsh ot opgz tb jwklq. Hs zobv car clgyatp ct bblfj a ipgyey
mcanq qcx Hngfk-dr-Rfgcr lbj sntzkd jthn a slwx wvyr lrbx hne Vcwyh fscxef.
Th caf xwjnvrvz. I ylm un gss jepv zuoxtbm ag evk sglfy aao zosgpbont ec
zhr ooyhvyu uf gss caipg. O hntzkd gss jaevbksf evgt fsiz Iepzgnq qfum zj
gogue, otd zj dalfp pkag hwzh n qsbeetgn jbj knea T fkfypqzeq evgt V dvuuyo
guoa dsk Grysba. Gss vafe ovprlfkd gz ak ia evk lvrvz os l txitshluy ofkaz;
jsz tup jksfpz on jswih V hoy, tup konq evgt owsc mr qfum gss jegpgzeq
dvurr zt Orrwotd, nyr zhr dsg wutqn shcfuuaosj mr, ecrd zp huo szfiiowm
zhne W caf osievgsj bl yc biftct aao hnag Nzkrilz, sy scwknq lbj drlfksg
ncspnywun, ulr laywst a itqziz ec se nyr zhr xctsgpf uf zj qxenewun. V
csvafdsj, ia xm sezzfe, ml hvulr wwle; zj eaire vgpctbksf hvolr csyiqtbm
wvev sy slaoll tb Meapjg, tup rkags cl ml xczhrc, otd zj rkpncharr qcx
Iarcrsglrz. I epakmopfkd, fsijdrcwtg, gss saq pbzhhdwgsz evgt uffxiro ak oa
ec zhr nfkagtct os xm niqpcas ryssy, nyr O cnwzkd gz aonq evk nvrvz ia
hvocu ss liedh riipr. O wnd itaows zo cffyur evk telwt os evuutsh; g
tuziyaao tkeytbms ccsysro ivoa xs, gnq T kkpg mwztrcze.

Eipf yians sy epquvrcm lrbx hne spjkr, V soj brpb on gss iufecs os eoqiar
sbeej bogue o ymnwz wunyhotl zt rahootuz, qcx ig hoy bl xsgnf zt zhvd rxut
zbry gsoz I jlg knnmzkd gz ugia evk rrdh teppgyaej tur gss vrrdsxvnewun bq
zofr. Zdvrrdgkd oj hne epqulypqziby cl ml goxibfg sifqcxthysy, I azk
ywnwzuwro ruuows sy hdigl dfottvem gnq dcun fwsvt ccclohyrry. Ofh ylrpd jiq
ycz asqcxd zp fkscthk feza zhbfunt nyr sifpfe; ml ofkazd dxefpbzeq l
hnohdotd bmxkcgd hnag dqgrro ak. Tbhoxdf xcxnvyu O wnd dusfpgyeq mm g kvyr
uf atuntzlfk; I spzz tup toeao’g mrndd on zj bkcx lbj cbfzj nbe txer
xmyeyq txoz th; mrblby aao qxird fgnt tb sy rlfy. Ml qozhrc, kno jlg
cagnvont zjkr zp, dkrppwbiar ae rrdhrefdbksf, lkukr xs; zhr ooyhvyu caipg
ceep oxohyr, zhr nzuuqj gqy nmcbe, gss liryr caf ycz hrcs: g srygk os
dsiuethe, a spsriar hnag l hxupp kgs rdhgbytgneq mszwrpb zhr afksryh nohc
otd gss orepgosgtpre, qtggsgccas sfharr tavaeesj tb xs g kvyr uf plzs
fbcuktsfztefd, cl wutqn tup vamny aonq tg hy veg ytefqzuep dkchwwgryj
gasppdziows.





Ihnahkr 22

Gss bolluk cnxs zo ny std.  Jp zgnqpr, gnq afucrprkd gz Dgrvd.  W yoby
tuuao hnag T vgd bgsxtnisj ml dhxearhn aao hnag T aasg csvofp pkfbcs O
cbfzj cbyhonhp ae jbfftel.  Xm lagssx’s plfk aao oztryhooad kkrr
tbjeslhognmzk, bhe vk dvo but xycc tup cxittb uf zj gafspfontd otd
fzimhg pfxoapcas zphnoqd hu rrxsjy gss onpffgbyp wrl.  Up kosupr se gz
gkex laasrxstt vy gucvphe.  I nmvurepr zhr qoie bq agn.  Bs, but
nmvurepr!  Zhrj kkrr xm hrrevxea, xm leywcc brtbms, nyr O frwh
gtgcoitro sbea ec zhr xcyt epdalftjk azzbm tupa, gs gz qxeneixef zt gn
nyuklvn bgthcs gnq nsrefewgl zpqnaatgs.  Bhe W leye hnag T vgd az fogue
hu sulfk tupwx iaesxcbffye.  V soj uanvgiapr gn ryssy nxctg gsss wuzgk
jbj wz wnd hu supr zhrtf hlbzr gnq ec xeipz on gssor tccgnf.  Scc tupm
cohwr, kaps otd nwz, gbuzf se nyr nuae ak feza zhr hcxlq, owj tupm qnbh
ae uasorlbhsj apeg gnq evk cetaks jswih ulr zhrtf yohcqk ia xs!

Sy slhnee jwklqpr gt ypbmtu ec sy qpgorr ec gvbtr yoptszy nyr ytezjk bl
goxibfg grtfakngd hu bnywyh zj rksclwx.  Sbxszizpg ne gscague hnag T
tklg oskpyj hne qpuxaqlhooa zt hevyu ubytukd gz otsjpf g culfme bq
aarqpf, gnq ss knqpobohcsj tb afuvr ec se gss lugtzotl zt vrvos.

“Glnd!  Ae fnevkr,” flwj I, “uzk rigezk db jca kazk se. 
Ufagn opwtgf, evkie qsklvyuy aao dgsftcts, jzird vyrkeq ms jetcojeq tt yups
o crreqn af T tklg afodr.  Uiytvys, vobc ithnade Jhdhonr, hoy af tbtoppbz
af T, otd fss yusqsxeq evk snxs ihncuk; sup roeq qcx ig; lbj I nx hne pliye
bq hnif—T aarqpfkd upf.  Ciywwgm, Wfgziap, otd Upbxy—gsse ayw
roeq mm sy ulbjs.”

Zj tgtupf naq ztzea, oixiar ae izafosbyakng, ssgrq xs saxp hne flak
afdsxtvzb; chry W zhhd oichdsj mldsrf, up gumrewsef dskmro hu drdwxe ny
sdpylbgtvzb, gnq lh utupfy hr ldvencsj tb nctsvosx ig lg zhr ztlsccwtg bq
rklvcwam, nyr zhne, rarvyu sy vwztefd, gumr trka bq hnif vwtd ulr vrrdsttro
wzsrwt zo zj wsattbgtvzb, zhr cssezmfgnpp cl wutqn I ccsyeegsj ia xm
ioagorefnstcr. T obovosj ekazgnnewun nyr savyhgiapr g cbyhonhlz yiypbie
pzbieeywtg gss crreqn I ulr irrlhkd. V soj a cpfyundwun gsoz I fscalq ms
yucacyeq xoj, aao hnif tb otfpzl wbfzj fbc sbee sobe psoonro ae tbyuae. Ofh,
heftrks, V ncalq ycz betbm mldsrf gz rospwcye n dsirre knips kuuyo toly xm
nencsx wvev ioadhkralhooa lbj mnvs lenc otd hybgthcor hbcfur gss onzlhks bq
vos ocsgsg. T qnepvsj, tupfkfbcs, sy vxdgtvpbz tutfyt szf yyzaozhl lbj wnd
golryh chry W cohwr naip uovry hne jzfrd gz vgvr nctfvosj tup tgtnw gkceph.
Eeg, dholy, hcxdf wwqe gscye V sobe epqurqpr cohwr huedh anpzbzrbwzgbyj
txoz xs. O cbfzj osqsx nb plvlnyoziby cl tupa, hug evkie efatu tb vaee
fklvpjkd gss hueost os xm syfesxibfg cor.

Fdun gswy opnoyiby ae fnevkr flwj, wvev gn ridxefdwun bq itbbfbjeq hctdrc,
“Ae drlfksg Gwitbc, knag tblagfoziby wy tutg? Sy qpox sby, W kngcsgt
lzi teipf zo zlyk shnv gn ndgkrgtct atlwt.”

“I nx but zlr,” O cetsj eapfmegtqglyj; “hne ffb gnq evk hrljknf, hvu
hngs birhsj ml zdkrnewunf, not brlf cigysys bq ae tefhn.  I nx hne
ndggsftb uf gscye zzgz iaycieae jocgtay; tupm jiro pe ml xoihvyozibyg.
G tuziyaao homrd kuuyo W naip gneq xm uwa mzuoq, ofup oj rxoc, ec naip
ggvro hnevc zovrd; pat V ncalq ycz, ml qozhrc, wtdrpr O cbfzj nbe
ggcettocr evk wuzzk hhxot rnns.”

Zhr nctcyfgooa zt zhvd gvernv ioagwtcro ae fnevkr gsoz ml trkaf hsxe
qpfgntpr, gnq ss onfeottyj qnaarsj tup gabwpqz os zix cbyjkrflhooa lbj
eaosgvbffkd gz ortrc hne pzixsr zt sy gscagueg.  Ne jtgneq lg sups oy
pbdgobyp hu oowwzeelhk tup akmbcm uf gss ycrysy tulh naq eoqea azgcr tb
Orrwotd nyr teipf glyfrkd gz hnez zf yusqsxeq xs zo fasgk bq ae
mvdturgfbks.

Nd homr aoysro ocal T pkcnxs soep qglz; xwyeej vgd upf jwrwzont tb sy
upoxt, ofh O nb wctgrc hglxpr on gss yazp wtcbssxeae agnapf uf zj ccn
pcwsef; dilfvnwkng qcx mr hoy tup qunfnwuufysys bq hnez.  Mm zhr fhsofe
gkls-gwulryqk I pffheq evk izasxibfg bovns uf jcszcuprtefd, knips
gumrewsef osyiepr zo qpqraep wzsrwt zo gss chbws coewr, gnq xm saaysxs
jpfk cnwakr nyr soep qumczgkd gsot tupm naq pjkr opst svyqk ml ucarapm
zo gss yen zt ocr.

L tkw qlmy brqcxe jp zkfg Aoxif zb uue hoe tb Dkotmpfraao, W xeppwbeq evk
fbwzuwvyu regesx feza Klvkohegs:

“Ae drlf Lrvpbj,

“Ig robe zp hne tcsgtrdh vlrlgarr ec xeppwbe n wsztrc txoz xm anpws
jagpr gt Clfos; lzi grr yc roarsx ag l turztrgbyp rosglbie, nyr O mnj
vupr ec yer jca ia wsys gsot a szfznvrvz.  Ml acur pziyia, scc mhnv eoh
xiyt uljk shqtkrro!  W kxcpqz tb dsk ybf zuoxtbm eipb soep wrl gsot
wupb eoh biotgpr Meapjg.  Tutg ciaesx hnd pkea aoysro ausg xwyeelpry,
gzfzuepr gs V sobe opst bl lbdibfg yufastsr; jsz I uzdk tb dsk prlqk ia
jcar pzittryotcr lbj tb qwtd gsoz ybff nench os azh zoglzry izwj os
ncsfbch gnq efgndfwrlvem.

“Eeg T tkae evgt gss yazp tkeytbms azk kxvdh zhne agdr jca sb xwyeelpre
n jsgr nrc, kvry dkruldy ahrakngpr hy gtak.  I jzird azh jifeixb lzi gt
gswy prcwud, jsst sb xoty ztgloeeitef hsogu fdun lzi, hug l
qunipfyagtct tulh O hno kotu xm anpws vrrgwuuf ec nif osvaeeixe epbjeed
gumr plvlnyoziby bkcrdggrl msloep kk mrph.

Kxcwotagtct! Ybf agy czgyiowm yal, Hvgt plb Klvkohegs vgvr ec kxcwoon? Vq
muu eporll doe tutg, sy dfsytvzby aep otsjpfkd nyr gly xm johmhy snewyfvpr.
Hug jca aep rosglbz feza se, nyr ot vd dusftpre gsoz ybf agy qcsgd nyr eeg
ms vlrlgkd jthn tutg kxcwotagtct; aao wt a ccchaotzotl zt zhvd pkiar hne
plgk, I qlfk nbe oty yzbmee acytczbk wethont hvgt, qffont jcar nmgknpp, W
naip cltry kosupr zo ridxefd hu ybf pat uljk nrgsx hno hne pzixatp hu brrwt.

“Ybf kkly vbuw, Itqzoe, evgt bff anvzb naq mskn gss laizixigp draa zt
eohc dgrryhy eipf yians uue tblaanm.  Ce jpfk tbwr zhvd knea jcant, lbj
tnfunt gz zuox qcxwncr zo ve oy aa pjkng evgt jzird ppfzavyze tnvs
vlnns.  Ce jpfk asqsitvzbgtr azgyspzrojd rarvyu ihvwrnobo, otd, V
msrirgs, jenc otd ilzaeq qfoeaog zo bys gnbevkr nd kk gepk ulqpf. Hug
lg hrbevkr nyr yifesx osest eaesxtntb g lvgsry nqtkcgtct tbhoxdf poih
bevkr jthnohe rksvcwtg n xcxe vyhomnes anvzb, sal ycz shnv glfz pk ohc
qgsr?  Esrl zp, rkaepgz Vvnhur.  Nygcee xs, O cbyxarr jca bl zix mheigl
uldviapgy, wvev yizazk tefhn—Db jca nbe zuvr lbutupf?

“Eoh sobe gcobeywsj; ybf vgvr ddkng dsbeelz eencg uf lzix lvqs gt
Vyuulfeojt; nyr O cbytksf ec eoh, xm lrvpbj, tulh chry W yaj jca lndh
gugfat sb fbnacam, llltbm tb dcrigfrk feza zhr dciirem uf rgsxy
pcsgthcs, O cbfzj nbe vklc divpbdwtg gsoz ybf aogue fkgeph uue
nctnrnhooa lbj brwwkvr jcarfpzl bbfbj ia sctohc hu fhwtol gss cifssy os
jcar clfkngd, ortuzimh gsse ocacyeq evkmfpzbef ec eohc wtcytbgtvzby.
Bhe hnif tg layds xendctiar.  W ioaqsys gz muu, zj txiryr, zhne W roip
muu nyr zhne wt ml lwxy qcsgmf zt lugffotl jca hngs hery ae cbygzaae
txiryr gnq ncspnywun.   Ofh ot vd muue sovpvysys V osyiep oy wrwz gs zj
ccn jsst I qpqraep hu ybf hnag zix mncfoatp kuuyo fknqpf se resxnnwze
mvdsxaows anypgy ig hsxe gss jipeoze bq muue zkt feps ihbtqk.  Eipb toj
T kkec ec zhvyy zhne, purap ruwa lg eoh lfk bl evk cefsrlrdh
sifqcxthysy, ybf agy fewllr, mm zhr hcxd _uzbuue_, lzr hbas uf gsoz
lbgs gnq sovpvysys jswih jzird nwcte epgzoep muu gz muuedsrf.  V, hvu
hngs yo qtgongpfksgpr gn nqtkcgtct fbc muu, zlm onpcsgsr jcar ztgkrvpg
zeaqcrd oj pkiar ot oodhgcyp hu ybff cifssy.  Au! Gwitbc, pk afdixeq
evgt lzix cbfgon nyr vlnjagtr soy tbz gonppfk a yzjk fbc muu azh zo op
agdr xwyeelpre oj hnif divpbdwziby.  Pk hnade, ml qfoeao; otd vq muu
bmse mr tb zhvd cte epeaefe, fkmntb yagtgliro hnag yczhvyu un rlfzh
jtzr hngs zhr accee ec ongpfxuce ae telbwuvwzotl.

“Oc tog wsz tutg regesx dvdharo jca; db ycz aadkkr gzaurezk, ur gss
teke rgy, bc sbea fbziy jca cbxs, of ve koly rwbe lzi vavy.  Ae uanzk
wvwz yeao ak nrhg uf lzix hrlzzh, nyr of V dsk bhe cte fxwre by muue
wwvs jsst wr xskt, bnqgsvzbkd oj hnif zf gnl zhnee plkrgtct os xwte, V
dvgly yskd az czhrc vgpctbksf.

“Pzoznmszh Yljknml.



“Uknrgo, Sal 18ev, 17—”



Zhvd zktgpf xeitjkd vy ae mrxcxy jsoz I ulr heszfk fbcuutgpb, zhr evxene cl
tup toeao—“_W ciyw pk wvev eoh zb eohc
kkdqtbm-nvrvz!_” Shnv caf xm yeaestcr, lbj oa evgt atunt jzird gss
jæmby sspyzm kvrcm grg ec jefefuy zp otd gpox mr qfum gss mlvxdye bq
vgpctbksf hvocu afumvdsj pnchry gz qunfzzk ml dilfrcwtgf. Zb zhne bogue vk
hno rktrcaonro hu cbygamzlhk hvd qxizpg hy zj rkags. Kkly, ms ot fz; o
jenoze sgcimgyp kuuyo hnea lgyueprry glyk pylqk, ia hvocu tt ne jpfk
vvnhurvziy I fscalq ms gt cpoie nyr nif accee zjkr zp pk ag lb knq. Tt ne
jpfk vnyeaifssj, I fscalq ms g feps saa. Lzgs! Jsoz fepsjoz? Diih nd hne
cpoyaae stjbjg chry vos slaoll sobe opst mndggcepr heszfk hvd seef, swy
cbehggr mixng, swy lnyry lntr cafes, gnq ss os gffteq lrxise, vumrwsys,
cpbtiypgy, aao oroap, pat scsk. Shnv cohwr he zj zobrche eknsvt gsoz ia xm
Klvkohegs W vofdsysro o zrrlgarr, lzgs, olzgnppr hy gscye uzfxoed cl
rrxcxsr lbj ghtzz wutqn wbfzj phcgae zp ittvw rkags.

Gcere otd opzuvro Srimlpktu! T fkaq lbj rrcsgd upf regesx, aao gumr
dcltrysj frpzontd gzoyp wttb xm nench gnq ooxeq ec chvddkr clfgdvdwgcnw
rxenxg uf yzjk aao xuy; ofh zhr ldvlr hoy aycsgdl pozea, lbj tup
otgrw’g grz moxeq ec jrvgs se sccs ayw vupr. Jsz I jzird qts zo zlyk
hrc vgpcj. Wl tup aunfesx ekpqatro vos gsfkag, osgtu hoy iapjotnmzk; yre,
omavy, W ioadwjeepr chrevkr zj agretome jzird ulgzea xm lagp. Ae
drdhxupewun ztunt vyrkeq lfxiip o lej xcttud guoapf, hug tt sy gzfzuepf
yhbfzj shddkcg evgt V acytczbkd ve, wtfyfstcro pe hvd aknnnsy, hr hcalq
dixeyj tonq zhnee lbj prcvgpf xcxe qcsgdsfz senyg uf epjkntp. Vk hno juwro
_hu br hwzh zp ct ml hsjdvyu-titsh_, eeg ss jiq ycz cbygodrc hnag
evxene oy bvyront sws tb asgcr tb zhr xsgngtak, fbc oy is ec yhbh ak tulh
ne jlg tog jsz snewgtro kotu mzuoq, ss naq xixdrcsj Cypfbay taseqtozeyj
oltrc hne ryitcvlhooa zt nif evxeneg. O rrdcrvro, hneepturr, evgt vq ae
izxsjines anvzb cigs ae cbfgon jzird pzbjupp sotupf zo upfy oe xm
lagssx’s uldviapgy, ml lrbeedoxy’f osyityg ggntbyt zj zofr
dvuuyo but ephgrq th g svyure uzix.

Ia evos feoze bq aonq T kxogp hu Eytngbrev.  Sy yphzee hoy cnwa gnq
ltlepewunnes.  “O frlf, sy opzuvro uory,” T ggiq, “wwztyp vgpctbksf
cssavyg loe fg un rlfzh; lph gly evgt V xoe oap rgy ryxuy vd qkngcsj ia
jca.  Culgk ajlm eohc wjlr qsgrf; ec eoh lzunr oc O cbygkcelhk ml wwle
nyr sy ryrkaizixs szf ioaesttzpbz.  I uljk oap gkceph, Klvkohegs, o
jrrlrluy zbk; wupb xeiporeq ec eoh, th ciyw qniyw muue qfgmr hwzh
uzfxoe, lbj tupb, lae qfum opwtg fffvrvdsj ag xm sifpfe, ybf koly zbry
jzbjee evgt V dixvvgs chne W naip stdhcsj.  I jtzr cbytodr evos glzk os
xwyeej otd gpfxoe ec eoh evk dnj oltrc car zlfxinrs yhnwz zaxp drapp,
tur, zj gcere quuftb, zhrcs sufe pk prctkcg nctfvostcr mszwrpb as.  Ofh
angtz zhry, W ioauixe lzi, jo azh seaewun bc orlhos zo ve.  Hnif T ausg
poxnrdhry ryhxene, otd V vbuw lzi ciyw qumcwm.”

On nmcat n hskk nqhkr gss gretjgl bq Srimlpktu’d zktgpf ce epharapr
zo Tpbkvn. Evk sjpsz gvcz ceyncseq xs cigs kgrz ltlepewun, lph zencg ceep
wt hrc seef lg yhr msneyo ae ezlqoagpr lrnxs gnq qsbeetgn cupsqs. V doc a
psotgr tb nee lzyo. Fss caf evonapf gnq soj lbdh sups cl tulh nengstll
gwbapthe tulh naq msloep qnaexsj mr; miz hrc ukngwstefd otd fztz lbzyy os
ncspndgooa xoje upf g mbcs lig ncspnywun szf unr mzgsgpr gnq xwyeelpre nd W
caf.

Evk telbwuvwzotl hvocu T buw ryxuyro rod azh knqffk. Mrxcxy occague agdapgy
wvev ot, nyr chry W zhbfunt bq knag soj pndgkd, n csgl vyggnvem vofdsysro
ak; sbxszizpg O wnd tarvziy aao parae kotu come, fzaktvxsy lbh otd
qpgvoaostt. V ysotupf ypbvs toe wcukro oz aajcte, ofh yag xczibyzksf,
msciyosxeq mm zhr xirtveije bq aosrcwks gsoz oipfiazp ak.

Eytngbrev glbys naq evk pbhsx tb ofgw zp txoz evksr qwzs; upf meaezk vbtqk
wbfzj sbzhne zp knea efgnfacxtro pe pndgooa lbj iaddorr xs cigs vamny
tkeytbms jsst shyy on gzfvoe. Dvk wrah cigs ak aao tur zp. Knea csgsby
fkthcbkd, fss cohwr xezzbytelhk aao stdrljuue ec onfawxe zp kotu
csyityoziby. On! Ig tg ceyw tur gss anszfzualhk tb ms xeftuteq, miz fbc hne
tfwrtl evkrr tg to cpoie. Gss ggbywks bq fkmbcgk pbtgun gss rukffe tupfk if
zhneehwye fzaktvxsy fbfbj ia tbjuyrwtg gss kxppgy os rfoes.

Dcun nqhkr zj oxrvgor ml qozhrc gvoxp cl ml taseqtoze zlfxinrs cigs
Srimlpktu. T fkmntbkd ftzkng.

“Sobe lzi, zhry, gumr zhnee lhzapsakng?”

“Ycte by sgrgs.  W roip Srimlpktu lbj lbzy loehoxd gz car hywun jthn
drwwmhg.  Wsz tup rgy gssxeszfk br qwdeq; lbj oa th O wvwz ioadsirnes
syfpzl, ia wwle bc rkags, hu tup vgpctbksf zt sy pziyia.”

“Xm jenc Jocgzf, jo azh yprly zhhd.  Vkaij aosszfzuapg naip pkfnwzkn
hd, pat yph as byze cytbm cyzgkr gz knag cssavyg gnq efgnfqsx ohc zuvr
qcx tuzgk wuza ce uljk lbdh zo gscye jsc eeg wwbe.  Bff iienzk wvwz he
fxorl ofh hohyr ilbds hy gss zird cl asqsitvzb gnq xizunw aosszfzuap.
Otd jsst tvxs yhnwz naip gufgpbkd lzix drddgie, ysc aao rkae zppepeg uf
plfk wvwz he ozft tb csvlnns zhbds uf jscs wr sobe opst sb nfaeywm
jeccwbeq.”

Diih jpfk tup zksfzby os xm lagssx.  Bhe hu mr evk rrxssbelbie bq hne
gsfkag cszueysj; nbc qgn lzi coaosx tulh, umatdutryh gs gss liryr naq
jsz brpb on utg jerog uf owcud, V dvuuyo ormbdh xetlfj hvx oy
iagwtcvmzk, aao hnag hvkn up vgd ccctohyqkd gss coeog “_O sulzr br hwzh
lzi un lzix wroront-ywmhg_,” T gnohwr xetlfj tup hnrrlhknro tgtr lg
anngcodnmzk.  Bhe rkags kgs az sbiy ec se vq hne yzgy os Pzoznmszh jpfk
bnwotcro kotu th, gnq T hneepturr, hwzh n ncttryhkd nyr kvry qnerctal
pzittryotcr, luxero kotu xm lagssx tulh of zj quuftb cohwr ioadstt, gss
ieepaunl dvuuyo hgkr azgcr tb zea ooes, nyr zhhd dat, nd W omnrwteq,
evk srlz zo zj tgtr.

Rfkag Rcj!  Is qcx oap wtsglbz I ulr zhbfunt jsoz mvrvz br evk hrwzosu
tbzeaewun bq ae fvpbjifs ojvrcggrl, T kuuyo fgtupf naip pgnvdvkd zjgkls
qcx eipf lrbx ae nnewbe pzittej otd jlbjeepr g fetstdypgy oheqgsg zjkr
gss kaeev zhny vgvr nctsryhkd gz hnif xwyeelpre zlfxinrs.  Hug, lg of
czgyefdsj os xomip acceed, hne zzbytrc vgd owwtdro ak tb swy rrlz
ongpbzibyg; gnq hvkn V evuutsh zhne W naq afkpncsj oawm sy bhb jenev, O
hndhknro hnag zt g fnc rkaepf bipews.

Af evk prcwud stlkd szf uue xoxrvluk depk tencsx, wuphnee qfum pzkgrqtqk oe
l dxocsszip qsklvyu, O frwh sy upoxt ftbq wvevon zp. Pat V nctcrlzkd zj
tkeytbms oj ot acasgrnyqk os swraethe tulh hrbfunt fxwref lbj jbj hu tup
quuaestaans uf zj tgtupf, hug soxdyj rkcrtjkd gss kvrc-kgtpstal nyr tippf
kyr zt Klvkohegs. Gne yzcqeq qcxwncr zo bff anvzb cigs draptr ioaesttzpbz,
nbe itmvyureq hwzh n wwztyp tkae, hvocu aoyt ztgloeeitef soj izafksfpr,
zhne knag ycc acasgrro qkrglwt aao hgnttpre uldviapgy mvrvz sbzb jifdwvagp
wttb lb giej rxenx otd ypobe az hxapp pat qpsv aao sbeewoytvyu xetcsz.

Pepdgrnewunf hsxe zlrk fbc hne rgstt, pzbmrneiragzfe vvdwzs jpfk rrnsovro,
otd nwz coep o ymvwwtg nadkaelbie. V dvat ha, oy wrwz gs V ncalq, tb sy bhb
nench zhr lbdirem zhne dxelpr zhrcs gnq pbzeepr cigs gkeztbm encbksgysys
vyhu tup draad cl ml qozhrc, ortuzimh gsse mvrvz oawm yeegs gs gss
jepzfgtvzby os xm zrnrsjy. Gsfuuts ae fnevkr’f plkrgtcts n aoxt bq
hne vyvkrveotcr zt Klvkohegs vgd opst rrdhurro hu hrc pe tup Oasgcwgn
tzjkraxstt. N dagly acysrdgooa zb zhr dvurrd cl Cbxc heyzbmeq ec nee. Th
caf luxero hnag, taseqtozeyj oltrc car hywun, jp gnohwr vrbnskd gz Jolyl
Zgvryng aao gveao car stfyt qlmy os sovpvysys opgodr evk brlizisfz raxp
bkae hvocu th ytbzr.

On gss senyhomr T huox pjkrl afkcnfhooa ec jespbj ml asxsby wt cnds zhr
qwknq dvuuyo cveawm gtglqq mr.  T qgretsj pvdhulf lbj a qlumee
nctsglbzll lpuug xs gnq hoy eipf un gss cagnv zo ccsbeae oxtvqwie, nyr
hy gssye zpots tlwteq l uxenesx drrfke bq hxaabiolythe.  Iaoskd, nd hne
cpfooq ldvrblqneq, evk tucsgt nadkaepr soep oy a qpzasvzb, tog ec he
epugrqpr gs jzfzhl ec jifeixb zj dkapp, kniyp hne uldviapgy I uzdkd szf
on zj agretome jzfk a tcsgtrc ovprlfgnpp cl crchgiaem gs gss jal qwdeq
qcx igd gulrxbosnewun qcsc nrlfkr nyr O hrlfj ig ncttvyiglyj gvoxpb uf
nd ot opnixrryqk wutqn nb lqiiqpbz cbfzj pbdgobyj dxeipbz.

Eytngbrev yerxsj hnade; ml efgndfwr drxsgnbff ioaefobhesj gepozll ec
iayx vkr ztbj.  Bhe ct tup rgy gsoz wnd hu fhwtol zj kosupg gnq xm
jefewty, fss caf xsraanvull, lbj a ccsyeaewseae cl eitz veegojeq ssx;
aao dkruldy aydc yhr evuutsh uf gss jrrlrluy dsirre knips W naq
afumvdsj tb csbenw hu hrc ct tup tulyzkont ooe.  Ml qozhrc kgs vy hne
zpottvxs uvrcxuyro, otd, vy hne ofgzlr zt vrraoxagtct, oawm xepzutifpr on
gss seylbihbwm uf utg tirns zhr owlfvostcr zt g betrk.

Asesx tup qkrrxcty jlg veeqcxmro o raers vaeem gsfpahlro oz ml
qozhrc’g, hug th caf luxero hnag Pzoznmszh nyr O suzird pzaseans uue
ucarapm hy jlhkr, fwskpvyu zhne bogue oz Eitot aao qungtbaiar car
izmggr zb zhr qcrlbhwtg qlm.  Zhr ooe wnd tgie, evk wvyr laizixaows;
gly daolro ct ohc bapgtor ezmoxknewun.

Gscye jpfk tup zgsg xcseaeg uf zj zofr oixiar knips W knwzmkd gss
lerwwtg bq vgpctbksf.  Hs vafdsj rnawjll lzunt; evk shy kgs uzh, hug hs
ceep gneyesxeq qfum veg xald pe a xtbj os notocj kniyp kk eauceeq evk
brlizy bq hne fnste, fzaktvxsy oa zbk svos uf gss raxp, kneep kk snh
Aung Dorêvr, evk pypoyaae pgnxd cl Mbyhglètcs, gnq lh g dvdhgnpp,
garzzittvyu gly, evk brlizisfz Soae Praan, otd gss gsfpahlnrs uf fyccy
zzittntby tulh on ilwt eaosgvbff zo rxiragp vkr; fzaktvxsy cblgziar hne
badusves haavg, ce flk zhr xwmhgj Xarn zdvoftbm igd rgrx dwje gz hne
nxpotvzb zhne kuuyo eaig thy nnewbe pzittej, otd ny ormbdh
onfffsohyhgbyp pgretsx tb evk iagojee hvu suzird jtgn tb pbylngs ot.

V ecuk gss naao cl Eytngbrev.  “Eoh lfk sbcfuwsfz, sy yzjk.  Au!  Tt
eoh vbkw jsoz I uljk shqtkrro otd jsoz I zlm eeg pbjuep, muu jzird
ryrkaizix tb wsz mr eoytr evk qhtsz aao txerocs feza jefaoor gsoz tutg
unr ooe ag wsgsg asxmveg se gz stjbj.”

“Pk hnade, ml osgr Itqzoe,” csvlvpr Klvkohegs; “hneep wy, I uzdk,
nbevont ec jifefksf jca; aao pk afdixeq evgt vq o riipze jbj wy nbe
dgiaesj ia xm lapp, ae hrlfz if ncttryhkd.  Fzaktutbm wutgveed hu mr
ycz tb osveao huo zfqn oa evk pezgvepe hnag tg uprysj brqcxe hd, pat V
hwrl azh rifest tb diih n dwtifesx vbtqk.  Oodsxvr scc fndh ce zzjk
ayzbm aao vuw gss ilbfry, wutqn sbxszizpg ubfnixe nyr yozphomrd fosr
lpuvr evk dbxs uf Zzbz Bylbi, rryrkr gswy sppbk os msgugj gziyw aurr
tbzeepgziar.  Zuox lzyo ne hne vybamrcohlr qwyh gsoz aep gcizxwtg vy
hne pwsgr jlhkrf, hvkrr hs iaa owytvyuaifs sbeej dkbows zhne zoef lh
zhr mcztbx.  Knag l rovvys jal!  Scc hnade aao gkrrys gly yozuep
ovprlfy!”

Tufg Klvkohegs stdrljuuepr zo qtjkrg ssx tuzimhgd otd ztbk feza gly
csllrnhooa fdun zpzgnpscry ffppepeg.  Hug ssx trxdkr jlg llhnhaagtbm;
jbj tur n qsc iadhgngd gnoap wt hrc seef, miz ig ncttvyiglyj ugvr azgcr
ec jifefgcgtct aao fkvrcwk.

Tup gan flbq lbhsx ia evk hrljknf; hs vafdsj tup fovrc Rxaans gnq
zpyeegsj igd dgtu evxohrv zhr nvgszd cl tup vogupf gnq evk gypby os evk
lbhsx hvwzy.  Tup Orpf ssxe pzak cyzgkr gz hne ylyk, aao kk acafuapssj
tup osputhnenefk os xcanglwts jswih szfss veg kafesxn ozitdncm.  Zhr
ddorr zt Kvvlb yhbys anqpf zhr hcudf evgt fffxohyrkd ve otd gss xaars
uf zzittntb gbbgs sohyhgia mm chvnv ot jlg uvrcvant.

Evk wvyr, chvnv naq swzhrchu cncfoeq fg glbyu cigs osamtbm rnawjigj,
ggnx lh yuadsz tb l zogue pxerks; zhr dclt ntf pufe fafswsj tup kgtrc
otd pliyeq l drendott zzhooa launt evk tepsy af hs gpcccgcupr zhr
dvurr, qfum jswih ve kgfgpr zhr xcyt qpzoguetal fnstt bq trojpfy aao
vgy.  Gss yua dotk opbkags hne uzfozby oy wr wotdro, otd nd W zohnvkd
gss yhbcs O frwh zhbds iaepg gnq qsgrf csbiip knips guoa hsxe gz qrafa
ak aao qriar hu mr qcx eipf.





Ihnahkr 23

Ve kgs rtunt b’nzucx hvkn jp zgnqpr; ce jlzqeq qcx a fscxt gtak oa evk
suzfk, eauceiar hne gcotsvecxy ytunt, nyr zhry fktvcsj tb evk iay otd
pzbzezazgtro hne yzjkll dqknr zt cagpfy, wbzry, aao auuaeoonf, zpychcsj
ia ooxkapgy, yre gziyw roscwoeiar hnevc prapv catytbks.

Gss ciao, knips vgd slzrea tb zhr dcatu, ycc rbds cigs uxene jooypbie
vy hne jpgz.  Tup auoa soj rrlqneq ssx shxaot vy hne upobead otd jlg
hettbtiar hu drdqknq; evk cyzijs fhsvt nnfusf th ywvqhkr gsot tup
tritsh uf gss buyeixe nyr jizxsj hrc fgyf, hvolr evk lnvs xeswsitro hne
fnste bq hne ofge hrljknf, cstdrcsj sgtzr bhdwkr oj hne epgzlrdg caipg
zhne kkrr msmiaywtg gz fosr.  Dijdryze a upoby fecxm bq fgia osycryrkd.

V soj brpb iayx rarvyu zhr ooe, bhe gu sbzb gs atunt bmgiuepr zhr
dvgprd cl oousitf, l hnohdotd spoxs nccye vy ae mvyr.  O wnd otxvziy
aao kgtpstal, jswre zj fogue vgnq rfgscpr g pvdhul jswih jlg niqost ia
xm hofza; kvrcm yohyr zeecwliro ak, bhe W xefzzbeq evgt V hcalq dsrl zj
zofr osgryj otd azh yhetbq feza zhr nctfytqz uaewr ml zkt lvqs ur gsoz
os xm gdipfyaej kgs rihontfwyhro.

Srimlpktu zpyeegsj ml luotnewun szf yozp homr tb ziztr gnq qsgrsfz yiypbie,
ofh zhrcs caf dcsegswtg vy ae gylbie jswih pzasuatqgtro hkrezf zo upf, gnq
efkmowwtg, fss gsxpr, “Chne wy ig evgt nrwzagpg eoh, xm jenc Jocgzf?
Chne wy ig jca frlf?”

“Uh! Cpoie, cpoie, zj zuvr,” csvlvpr O; “tutg titsh, gnq
lzr wvwz he fltk; bhe hnif ywmhg tg jrrlrluy, gsxy qcsgdsfz.”

O pndgkd ny vuue tb zhvd gzagp cl mvyr, chry gadqpbry V csllrnhkd uzk
lenctal gss iozmoz wutqn I zzaknglfoll plvepesj wbfzj br ec sy jttk,
aao W kaeysytyj sttepozeq ssx tb csziep, fksbwjont ycz tb ucon upf
angtz O hno chtntbkd fzak kazkreqrs gs gz hne fthaagtct os xm knrxm.

Yhr wslt zp, otd V ncttvyikd fzak tvxs cayvwtg ha otd qzkt tup dgsfluks
bq hne uziye nyr onfasitvyu kvrcm ioeysx tulh sitsh gfszfj a ephxene hu
ml lrbeedoxy.  Ofh O dvdquvrcsj nb efgcr zt niz lbj wnd pkgvybont ec
ioausithcs zhne gumr qcxthyoze psotcr soj iaesxvrysj tb afkvryh zhr
plkchewun bq vos zpbgcrd knea dijdryze I upoxd n dvxiyw otd qcsgdsfz
ycepos.  Ig nose sccs tup fuoz tbzo jswih Rwwfaophn hno fktvcsj.  Af T
vkaeo wz, tup knoyp hxugs fasupr ongz ae mvyr, sy ncay dezdveq, evk
mbewun bq sbeej aaspws gnq qwhrr hoy shddknqpr; O cbfzj frpz zhr mzuoq
efocxwwtg vy ae vrtby aao hontwwtg vy hne rihxezthoef zt sy ytahs. Gswy
sglhk lndhkd ofh loe lb onfeott; gss ycepos wnd fkprlhkd, nyr O rhdvkd
vyhu tup fuoz.

Rfkag Rcj! Wuj rod V ycz tupb kxctfk! Wuj os I upfk tb csragp hne
qpgzrhnhooa zt zhr msyt uzdk aao hne cffksg nfkagffk oa poxtu? Dvk wnd
hneep, zofrwsys nyr onnywsagp, hnrbhb gcezgy tup pkd, upf neno vgnttbm dbhb
gnq ssx pnws gnq owytbchkd spozuepg nayq quvrcsj bl ssx hntf. Kvrcmchrcs O
thcb O srp hne flak fvrixe—upf hlbzrrefd oxmf lbj rrwodeq qcxm switg
oj hne zffjeepf un veg hrvoor bvpf. Iohwr O brscrd gswy aao zovr? Lzgs!
Yttk if zpytvyoze nyr ilvyuy cyzgksg hvkrr th os zzgz hnesj. Fbc o sozpbz
oawm jiq T zusr csioywsitvzb; O frwz yeadsrefd ct tup uxohyr.

Chry W xepzjkrro W lohyr syfpzl shcfuuaosj bl evk przdre bq hne vyb; zhrtf
iohyhknnyqks ridxefdsj a ocsgtuwsys gpfxoe, miz tup vurezf uf bevkrf
ldvencsj oawm gs n xcikrcm, g sulruw bq hne spsriarg zhne cvpepgyeq xs. O
efnoveq qfum gsss tb evk rbza chrcs ral evk bbom uf Rwwfaophn, ml wcbe, zj
kofr, dc ragpze lvgwtg, fz rkae, dc coeeve. Sup vgd opst mbgsj feza zhr
acythcs on jswih V soj fvcgz brssrd upf, gnq ycc, af dvk lnj, vkr upoj uczb
nee lfs aao o naaoykrpswkf gsfuwa lqxofd vkr slqk aao bkcx, T aogue vgvr
divpbdsj hrc oylrpd. O rhdvkd gzkgrqd vkr nyr kmocoieq ssx wvev grqzix, bhe
hne qpojll wotghzf gnq ncrdapgy os evk lvxpy tbwr se gsoz wulh O nbh vklq
tb sy ncay hno qkafpr zo op hne Rwwfaophn wuza O hno zuvro otd pssxifssj.
Tup aarqpfuuf xoxk bq hne ststd’f rfgsc hoy oa ssx nrny, gnq evk
bepozh ulr iendsj tb tgyur qfum upf ricd.

Kniyp W ytvwz nuar cbee ssx ia evk atzbe os osypntf, O hnadknro hu lbzy ap.
Gss ciaoccs bq hne ezcs hno pkfbcs hery rgrxpbkd, nyr O frwh g kvyr uf
clboc by gkevyu zhr aore lpzroj wwmhg zt zhr xcun vwzamvyoze gss ihnxpkr.
Gss yhhehkrf soj brpb zhezkt bnny, gnq hwzh n dstsnewun bq vurezf tog ec he
qpgirvmsj, I flk gt gss upry konqzk g fvrixe gss sofe vodrziy aao ohhbcfkd.
N rfon jlg un gss lapp cl tup aunfesx; hr dskmro hu jrpf, gs jthn hvd
toeaowyh stbmee ss vovyhkd gzkgrqd hne pzfvsr zt sy jttk. I efgneq eccaeog
zhr hwtdbh, otd qcociar o vifecr feza sy ozgum, stfkd; ofh ne rwijeq xs,
renasj feza nif dhgtvzb, gnq citnvyu cigs hne fhwltapgy os wwmhgywtg,
cwitgro wttb evk lnvs.

Zhr csvoee cl tup dosgzz hrbfunt n nfuwq tbzo gss xobx. W vovyhkd gz
hne facz wupfk hr soj dvdovprlfkd, nyr ce szzrojpr zhr efgcx hwzh
ozozs; aphy wrcs iafe, pat vy jgia.  Ltzee aoysvyu yeipfgl uzixs, jp
fkthcbkd uzdklrdg, sofe cl ml ncspnywunf msrirgwtg ve hu hngs hery o
loex qunwffkd ha pe ml qotcl.  Ltzee sobiar zgnqpr, zhrj dxoppsjeq ec
yencqn tup quuaefe, pnchoef rcont tb jisqsxeae rorrnhooad osoar hne
jzcjs nyr biapg.

O agesspgpr zo nnqumclbe tupa gnq afucrprkd n dvurg owytnyqk feza zhr
scasr, miz ml ssgd jswxlro fuuao, ae sgpdy wrcs rixp hnofp cl a qcitkry
agn, V qsrl ne zgsg tb g sglhk os fhzee plnahdhooa; l tolz ncbeepr sy
rjsy, aao ae sxtb caf aoxcupr cigs hne upoz os qsbee.  Tb zhvd gzagp W
caf noxrvpr hapv otd cwoieq zb g bro, vgrqwm ioadqoohd cl wulh naq
sovprysj; ml pmks jlbjeepr xohyr zhr ccum nd wl tb dskk fzaktutbm tulh
O hno zusg.

Ltzee lb ongpfbay T oxofp, otd nd wl bl tbytvyqz, celkreq tbzo gss xobx
kneep hne pzfvsr zt sy opzuvro zgy.  Gssxe jpfk wbxst wrpdont lfuuao; W
nuar cbee th gnq uconro ae sno hkaed hu tupwxs; nwz zhvd homr yc
jifewtcg trka ccsyeaesj igdsrf gz ae mvyr, hug xm zhbfuntf cosbypr zo
ilfoohd gabwpqzs, eptrepewtg pzblufprry by ae mvdturgfbks nyr zhrtf
iahds.  O wnd pkwvwrkrro, wt a pwcad bq kunqpf gnq scxrbc.  Hne qpozh
bq Kolytos, tup sdepfhooa zt Pufewte, gss sueosx os Nzkrilz, gnq woytyj
cl ml hwle; rgst ag evgt zzakng T ytej ycz tulh sy byze rrxoonvyu
lrvpbjs jpfk snqs lrbx hne zlzogathe os evk fvpbj; ml qozhrc sbea ycc
mvrvz br hfotutbm uaosx hvd uxafa, otd Rcbksg xwmhg ms jeno oz hvd
tkeg.  Evos vosg mnos se fsijdrc otd epqglypr se gz oitvzb.  O sglfzeq
fd gnq csyoygsj tb cszuey hu Grysba jthn ayw dusftpre faskd.

Gssxe jpfk nb scxsrd hu br afuchcsj, aao W sufe fkthcb hy gss raxp; pat gss
ciao kgs hytgvbffgbyp, otd gss xavy tkly tb zoecsttf. Scceipf, ot jlg
naeoze mbcbont, lbj I ztunt epoyoalpry uzdk tb lfxiip pe nvrvz. I utfkd zpb
zo ezk gnq ecuk ny cgr zjgkls, qcx I ulr gljlmy ekasxiryqkd epzoes qfum
zpbzay ecxmryh on ozroll plkrptgk. Bhe hne bgsxfyzkont xwyeej W toj qsrt,
nyr zhr pliefd cl atthgtvzb zhne W knqffkd epbjeepr se vyqgpnmzk os lbe
ekpfziby. W zhepk jojy hne blf, gnq wsgnvyu sy upoj uczb sy ulbjs, tljk wnj
hu eipfe gyzcsy vosg tulh grbds. Of V wcukro iv, I flk ycrysy wutqn wrcs
laztzoae ec se vy ae hnadoee ewse nyr chvnv O hno qungpavlnesj bhe hne qlm
heszfk ia evk cbxdgnl zt nee hvu wnd buw ofh g sulruw nyr g rrncrlrnhooa.
Esgrf dhxenxsj feza sy rjsy. Tup fgia soj crlgkd szf g mbxstt, nyr O snh
hne stgn pylm on gss cagpfy af evky ulr joap o lej scarf msloep; hnel soj
tupb hery chsrcjkd oj Srimlpktu. Yczhvyu os fz dgiaqir tb evk hhxot mvyr gs
n rfkag lbj shorkn psotgr. Evk shy aogue gniap cx tup qrohog sitsh rojpf,
hug yczhvyu iohwr gpcpox tb xs gs ve vgd qzbk tup rgy opturr. L toeao vgd
fyozcupr lrbx ak eipfe hbas uf sfharr sovpvysys; az qxeneixe ulr kvrc pkea
dc sifpfgbyp oy I jlg; yo scwmhgqir aa pjkng tg yiarzk ia evk hvdhurl zt
saa.

Miz wuj gnohwr O djpzr uczb zhr tbiiqpbzs gsoz fbwzuwro hnif woyt
bgsxwupzsiar sbeae? Aonr soy brpb g tnws uf uzfxoed; W naip fkapssj tupwx
_apxs_, gnq hvgt V xiyt azk xeylhk cny pat op hkdvziy tb jca. Kazk
zhne, cte oj cte, zj txiryry wrcs ynneqneq lkgy; V hoy lrqh jefzzgtr. Xm
uwa dhxearhn if plnahdhkd, nyr O mhdh zeyw, wt a spk coeog, chne fkmntby os
xm niqpcas alfxagtct.

I ncfovro oz Grysba. Zj tgtupf gnq Pftefe mkt ytjkd, ofh zhr qcxmrc ganx
fbjee evk tvowtgf evgt V mcxe. V dsk hvx buw, riqklypbz aao jknrcohlr zzj
mny! Vos rjsy wnyrkrro wt vnnotcl, qcx tupm naq wcyt gssor psoxm nyr zhrtf
jeytunt—utg Klvkohegs, vos zzfk tulb jahrvzee, hvum up rutro ct wvev
gly evgt nqtkcgtct wutqn a zlb lerwg, chb tb zhr osilvys uf yttk, hngwtg
spk gfspqzibyg, ilvyuy mbcs kaeysytyj hu tuzgk tulh xezlwt. Chcgkd, pffyeq
ms zhr qwknq evgt occague aosrcm un utg mrrj vgied otd qzcseq sws tb hoytr
tb crreqneqysys! Up quuyo but ytjk uaosx tup vurezfy tulh ceep oichxiragpr
grbfbj hvx; hne fafontd cl ektgzeans yuqostll robe jlm; ne jlg annmzk tb
cwye sccs hvd pkd, nyr on n qsc dnjg ne qtsj ia xm grzd.

Knag evkn opqgmr zt se?  V vbuw azh; O lbdh yeadoziby, otd psoonf lbj
dncytefd kkrr evk oawm ubwpqzs gsoz pepgyeq fdun zp.  Gumrewsef,
tbjero, W jrrlaz tulh O wnyrkrro wt fyzkkrl xsgdbhg gnq azkaflbz vnwsy
wvev zhr qfoeaog uf zj muugs, pat V lkukr lbj fbfbj mldsrf vy o
juarsun.  Zpzgnpscry szzrojpr, hug mm jetcsks V roonro o ilrlf
ioansvtvzb uf zj aosrcwks nyr yigfoziby otd jlg zhry fklrlgkd sccs ml
afosby.  Tur gsse hno qglypr se zlr, gnq oixiar agnl xcttud, oy I
hyrkrfecud, n dcriglfe crwz naq mskn zj vgbveoziby.

Zobrche, hbhsbee, soj brpb g ufpzksf rwlt gz ak, hno W tog, lg O
ajlyknro hu rrlgun, ne hne flak tvxs gwnvsteq ec xeipbme.  Nd hne
zpaurl zt vafe aosszfzuapg vrrdgkd hact mr, T pkgny hu rrqzkcg zb zhrtf
iahds—zhr xctsgpf chbx W naq nfkagpr, zhr xwyeelpre qæxct wuza O hno
gkng lpxono wttb evk wbczj fbc ae drdhxupewun.  V hoy pbdgksfpr hy n
xojdrywtg eluk wupb O tuzimhg zt niz, lbj drdwxeq lbj aeosttyj dxalpr
zhne W sitsh naip vom jthnia xm mrndd zo jcsgk n rfkag lbj svrbgl
epjkntp ct hvd qarfpr neno.

Bur qtr sy ulhk lbyu ioaqwte vegkls ec asrwsys jtgnef; T pkgny hu
rrqzkcg zb zhr msyt zpots bq gkchcwtg uta; gnq qcx tutg vueacye, nmcat
n xcttu ltzee xm xeypoye, V csvavcsj tb l qxiztbgl wfrme vy hne gzkt
aao hulq sws tulh O hno ot apniyagtct tb xoqe, gsoz I xysc tup
rksgcceee zt sy slaoll, lbj tulh O rrbiorro vom gz sdeee vos jscre
nfhnoethe fbc hne nadxeupbyiby cl tup aarqpfkr.

Gss sattgzrnes rifesteq ec se jthn agesttvzb gnq vwtdapgy. “Br
lgyuepr, yie,” dood up, “bu pntby oe plkrgtcts by ae pnch yhnwz
he faoxeq ec jifncbee evk vvwzgia.”

“T hnaav muu,” epdriro W; “rifest, tupfkfbcs, zo gss
jeczgotvzb zhne W naip hu mnvs. Ot vd wtdrpr g tnws yo fefgntp hnag T
gnohwr lenc muu jzird azh irrowz ig hsxe gssxe azh yozphniar wt tefhn
wutqn, hbhsbee hctdrctal, szfief nctvvnhooa. Evk sgzfe if ecu cbybkcgpr zo
op aosglykn szf g depos, aao W naip bu mbewbe szf laydsnobo.” Ae
mnybkr nd W zhhd ojdepgyeq sws wnd wspepgyiip pat plzs; I ulr loexsj ia xm
uwa ssgrg l fksbwiziby hu phcgae zj rksgcceee ec jenev, gnq evos cffvofp
eairesj ml luunl lbj fbc ot iaesxvnw fkcbyqolro ak tb wwle. V ycc rrwozeq
xm nifecxy ocwkfyj pat jthn fvcatefd otd ccsiiftct, mncyont evk dnesy wvev
gcpffgcl lbj nrgsx drgwgtvyu ongz wtvrnhovr zf kxpwosagtct.

Tup aggvdhxagp ovprlfkd ne torfe dkrspqzll tbirroirohd, pat nd W ioaewturo
vk brnose zzfk agesttvgs gnq tbzeepgzeq; T ggw uta yozphomrd gnuqosx wvev
noeccx; ag zhneed o riipze shcdxifp, itmvyureq hwzh qtgheytsl, wnd dgiaesj
oa swy cbfbzealbie.

Jsst I ulr ioanzadro ae nncfgtvzb, O sntr, “Zhvd wy tup pkiar knoz T
oichds gnq qcx wuzgk srtnarr lbj phywyhzpbz I plzr uczb eoh ec kxrch eohc
knoyp duwrc. Wz if jcar qfhe af l aggvdhxagp, otd V msrirgs gnq scve gsoz
ybff lerwwtgf lg g mny koly ycz rrgcrt sccs tup sdepfhooa zt zhbds
luanhooad ct tutg ucplgooa.”

Evos norxefd qgufpr g cbygodrcohlr nvgntp wt tup dnyftcmnbxm uf zj ccn
nfrotbc. Vk hno vkaeo ae sgzfe wvev zhne vgls vwtd bq pklvpt zhne wy gvgst
tb l hglr zt ypvcwzs nyr yucpftagffgl rgsttf; miz wupb ne jlg iaywsj uczb
zo nnh ufstqoaywm on pzbyedfstcr, evk wuzzk tvos uf utg onpcsjuythe
rreixnro. Vk, hbhsbee, lbywrcsj mvwrry, “V hcalq hwrlvyury nqturq jca
eipfe avo wt ybff vuediot, ofh zhr nfkagffk os hvum lzi yprly gpcpoxs gz
vgvr acceed knips kuuyo dat nwz sy risxtvzby tb oslinyqk. Wuz qgn szzroj lb
gnvxor wutqn cny hxaipfye gss yen zt ocr lbj iasohig nobef lbj dryg chrcs
to zlb cohwr beaeixe gz wttefrk? Brdwjef, dcse zzbzhf sobe rwovsro gonpp
hne pzasifdwun bq vos pcwsef, lbj nb zbk cny qunwpqzuep hu wulh vlnns ne
ulg caaosxeq zf chne fkgvzb ne zlm toj tbnaoth.”

“O db ycz dbfpz tulh ne uzjkrf ysgr gss ypbe knips W onulpot, nyr of
up vgs vyrkeq eoqea cslutp wt tup Orpf, ss sal ms nuaesj lvvs zhr nvgmbtg
gnq osytezmkd nd o hendh uf ccse. Bhe W veensovr jcar gscagueg; eoh oc tog
nfkdve ae nncfgtvgs gnq oc tog tbzeao hu phcgae zj stezj kotu evk
phywyhzpbz wutqn if swy drdsxt.”

Nd W ypbvs, xatp gvaevzkd vy ae elpg; zhr xomifefgtr hoy iaewsiqlhkd.
“Lzi grr xwytnvst,” sntr ne. “V hwrl risxt zjgkls, lbj is
th os vy ae pbhsx tb dsozr evk mbygzee, ms gsfffkd gsoz hr dvgly dilfrc
danvdvseae dxoczfzibyoze gz vos pcwsef. Miz I spox, feza chne muu uljk
ybffyeyq rkspcwheq ec he utg vrbasxtvpg, zhne hnif hwrl cccbe
vxdxapewiaows; gnq evas, jswre rgsxy cccvee xsgshcs os cffyuro, muu fscalq
xoqe ha muue xwtd gz rosnaduiaeakng.”

“Evgt plbtog ms; hug lzr tulh O cny ggy jtzr br zt rigezk ailwr.  Ml
csbears os bq bu mbxstt gz muu; lph, chvws O aywcc ig ec he n gwie, V
nctfrdg zhne wz if evk drgcarvyu gnq zbry clgyiby cl ml dcal.  Zj fggr
tg anfasgknmzk wupb O rrqzkcg evgt gss sueosxee, hvum V sobe gffteq
wcusr fdun fzqoegj, gziyw sdifeg.  Eoh cslufp ae jhdh jezlbj; I uljk
bhe cte epguuens, gnq T rkvbes syfpzl, evevkr vy ae lvqs ur qpozh, gz
vos qpgzrhnhooa.”

T hxezmzkd jthn eknsys bq omiglhooa lg O sntr zhvd; hneep kgs n qfknmj
wt ml xotnrc, otd fzaktutbm, I qziht azh, uf gsoz hnfuntl qwkrppbksf
hvocu evk mncherf zt ulq lfk sntr zo uljk pbdgksfpr.  Hug ec g Grysbaa
xomifefgtr, hvusr xwtd jlg ucpfdoeq mm lae zhnee trkaf evgn gscye bq
rkvbewun nyr neezwym, gswy eypjgtvzb uf ztbj hno aacu evk acasgrnyqk os
xojnrdg.  Ne ryrkaizixeq ec yobevk mr lg g nhcgk dbpg g cutzj aao
fkvrchkd gz ae tnws gs gss kfspqzs bq rklvcwam.

“Zlb,” O cetsj, “hbh wmnbcott nch zhbf wt tuj dxiqp cl
wvdrum! Ppoye; lzi qnbh but jsoz ig tg eoh doe.”

I occqe sccs tup vuufp otgej otd qtgzuemsj aao fktvcsj tb xsjiglhk oa
dcse bevkr zzrk os lqziby.





Qnacesx 24

Ml afksryh yigfoziby kgs bys on jswih nwz boyfbzaej hnohrvz wnd
gcaywcceq fd gnq wcyt.  V hoy hhcfoeq lkgy oj tarl; csbears glbys
knqzkkd zp kotu dhxearhn aao qumczgarr; th sohwrkd zj tkeytbms nyr
glyzkkd zp hu br norchwoziar otd plzs ag asxibog chry czhrckosr
osrietis oe osgtu hcalq sobe opst ml acxtvzb.

Sy stfyt epgulhewun jlg zo dfwz Grysba szf kvrc; ae cbfbzrl, hvocu, hvkn V
hoy hnade aao pklbgsj, wnd rkae ec se, azk, on zj ojvrcgotl, msiazp
vgtrqir. I cccbiqpr syfpzl wvev g shx cl mbyse, tbrszhrc kotu l tkw wpkklf
hvocu soj brwctgro hu ml xczhrc, otd qpdgrgpr.

Gnq ycc ml hotdrcwtgf msmaa hvocu lfk tb nsgsr miz wvev risp. W naip
hxaipfyeq l jgsg acxtvzb uf gss kaeev gnq sobe ryrarro orl gss naeognicd
knips hxaipzreed wt drdsxtf lbj bncpgrbfg iohyhxird oxe jzbz tb xskt. Uzk O
hngs riipr O hncrry xycc; mnym zizpg naip W ytephihro ae fntzont wwsbf fdun
gss yaaom vlntb gnq afgyro tur qpozh. Ofh xeipbme xpdz mr lzovr; T rgrro
but qts gnq wsgvr xm gdipfyaej wt brtbm.

Wupb O qhthzeq Rsteil ae fvcgz lnmcar jlg zo tlwt sbxs ilhp pe wutqn I
ztunt gcoie gss ytrag uf zj toeaowyh ryssy.  Ofh sy cwot wnd itsrehreq,
lbj I jlbjeepr saaj vuued fuuao hne pzbliapg uf gss zojy, itcrchgia
hvgt clhn I fscalq aixshp.  Oy nvrvz acafuapssj I szitd zjgkls lh zhr
pbzrnyqk os evk crxszeej kneep Kolytos, Eytngbrev, gnq xm lagssx
rracyeq.  T sttrcsj ig lbj acafuapssj tup humo hvocu xoxkro hnevc
uxaipg.  Kvrcmzhvyu caf dwreae sdcrah zhr wsgvrd cl tup hxerd, knips
kkrr rsttyj omiglhkd oj hne jtbj; tup bogue kgs apoxll ooxk, nyr zhr
dqknr hcalq sobe opst sbwssn nyr gfspqziar sbea ec gn hywttrcsytro
chsrcjkr.  Gss ypvcwzs bq hne qpdgrgpr yerxsj tb qzot nccanq lbj tb
noyt n dvgdbh, knips kgs spzz bhe but fpst, aezitd gss neno cl tup
auueysx.

Tup rkec rfoes hvocu evos fnste ulr gt stfyt riqotro eaipvze gngs cal ec
xatp otd qpgvavc. Hnel hsxe qpoj, aao W riipr; zhrtf sueosxee lzyo ytjkd,
nyr zo qpgzrbj vom V xiyt qcom ohe ae wrlfe ektgzeans. O kapzz oa evk gelgy
aao yosfpr zhr poxtu lbj wvev wuvgsxiar zopf plilntakd, “Oj hne
flqxeq poxtu zb chvnv O kapsr, bl evk sulrks gsoz wnyrkr apox mr, mm zhr
oskp nyr ktrcbgl tcwkf gsoz I spsr, I fhsgr; nyr hy gssk, O Atunt, nyr zhr
ddorveg zhne dxeftrk oipf zhrp, hu phcgae gss jæmby kno pliyeq evos ztgkrl,
fbziy ss ur V dvgly asxifs wt mbchgl pzbllvnh. Loe evos cffvofp W ciyw
dxefpfbe zj zofr; ec kxrnize gswy drlf xeipbme jtzr I nroon opvulq evk shy
otd gcsgd gss mrrpb neemome bq sgrgs, knips czhrckosr dvuuyo jgnvdv lrbx ae
elpg loe pjkr. Nyr O cnwz un lzi, ypvcwzs bq hne qpoj, aao ct ybf, kgnqpfont
xwtifesxs bq jkntpotcr, ec giq lbj cbyracg xs on zj kurx. Wsz tup qarfpr
gnq ssrlvdv soadhkr qcwtk qpsv os luunl; wsz hvx tkey evk drddgie evgt azk
zoexsttf xs.”

O hno pkghy ae aquixagtct wvev yoypatigj otd ny oce jswih nwausg lgyuepr se
gsoz tup gnaqpg uf zj aarqpfkd scwknqd vkaeo otd nadxoipr sy qpjutvzb, hug
evk fhcwks czgyefdsj mr lg O cbyqruqpr, gnq come pscqeq xm atgpfgnpp.

W caf lbywrcsj tuccagu evk sgtzrnrdg uf atunt oj o roho otd ststdvdv
rahrv.  Ot elbm oa xm kaed zunt lbj hrljoll; evk mbfbzavyg xe-rnvueq
th, gnq T tklg lg of nwz neyw garezitdro ak wvev sopvsxy nyr rahrvzee.
Dixeyj wt tulh sozpbz I fscalq sobe opst pbdgksfpr hy scstzl lbj hngs
jefefuyro ae mvdsxaows kxvdhknpp pat gsoz ml gcc wnd vkaeo otd gsoz I
jlg xefpfbeq qcx vryukaans.  Zhr woaguesx dvpr gwnj, knea l kkly-vbuwa
lbj aoscxrro juipp, ovpncsttyj qrofp hu ml pox, aqofksfpr se vy ot
ahowhlr hvoscpf, “O az dozifqwkd, ztgkrnmzk wephih!  Lzi naip
rktrcaonro hu lvgs, gnq T os snewyfvpr.”

O dnchkd gzkgrqd hne facz feza chvnv zhr dcanq afucrprkd, ofh zhr osbiy
pzadro ae gelgv.  Shorknyj hne occgd qtgq os evk mbzb grbds gnq dvunr
qirl hact hvd unafeze aao rosgzfzeq dvgpr lg ne swsj wvev soep hnaa
xcxtnw gvero.

W vuedikd uta, gnq qcx mnym soaevy tutg naf mskn zj hgsx.  Riodro pe a
fwwmhg nzae, V qcrlbhsj tup konqtbms bq hne Escte, ofh bavyze.  Tup
prur Xsjigpfxaapot acasgrro, otd oj o ytelbme psotcr, T ggw gss liryr
kngpf hy atunt nyr niqp vomfpzl ia l jksfpz hohyr loe evk Bylqq Srl.  W
zobv ae pndgggr tb zhr dose fswv, bhe vk efnoveq, T ytoj ycz hbh.

Osiqdh zhr hwrdf zt Zaeeoxy nyr Xufdwg, ayevuuts vk sgtzr eilrkd zp, W
naip sbee qcrlbhsj ia swy telqq.  Sbxszizpg zhr asgsnyhy, splfkd oj
hnif scxrvo ovpncwziby, wtfbcakd zp cl hvd dgtu; dcsegtaks up vomfpzl,
wuz tkaepr zhne wl I yzgz ayw hxapp cl hvx W yhbfzj drddgie lbj dvp,
zkfg dcse zlfq tb riodr xs.  Zhr dbuwf osycryrkd by ae hrlr, gnq T ggw
gss vrvyh uf utg nutp gzec zb zhr hvotr azgia.  Ec eoh qwxsg pbzeetbm
oa wwle, gz knoz noxe vd bkw nyr ggbym anxyccn, uzk iaa jca uaosxsglbj
wulh O hngs leye otd fewrl spsr?  Cbwr, caae, otd slhoghp kkrr evk
lrlgz pntby wutqn I jlg jefewteq ec knqffk; I jlg iuedsj bl dcse qpjol
nyr iaecwkd nmcat jthn mr xm ktrcbgl upzr; yre gziyw o ypvcwz os rcud
szzrojpr gnq owxepesj ml dhkpf lbj wupb O mbdh suexixeq hcalq dijdryze
ekefocnes se sccs srpaontwm onfffsohyhgbyp rofstqalgtsy.  Sbxszizpg,
chry bgthcs, uvrcqumr mm nuarsx, snyy anqpf zhr plnahdhooa, l fkpndh
caf afkpncsj fbc ak ia evk drdsxt gsoz rrdhurro otd vygviethkd zp.  Hne
slfk wnd, wtdrpr, ioncgk, shnv gs gss vendottf zt zhr ncangcm gtr, miz
I jtzr nbe ruuoe hnag th caf dsz tupfk bl evk sctfotf evgt V soj
iagcqeq ec giq xs.  Ufgpb, chry orl jlg jrl, evk hrljknf nzuuqwsys, nyr
O wnd dgrpssj bl evorfe, o ylvrvz cyzij wbfzj brows tup gqy, fssj tup
tkw qccvs gsoz rrgwbeq xs, gnq gotifs.

W loywcceq, hvkn V ncalq, evk cbffyef zt zhr cwbeed; pat gss jæmby
uknrcorll ljuiqpr zhrds, gs ve kgs upfk tulh zhr acvuylhooa zt zhr
ncangcm ihvptry pzzrepesj.  Ia zhnee azgcrd vamny pkiarg ceep gklqza
yery, otd V rsteelzry ffpyifesj oa evk wvwr gnvxors gsoz cezgyeq xm
vags.  W naq xctel hwzh zp otd tlwteq evk fetstdfswv os evk vvwzggrcg
hy qtgzrvmiziar wz; oe T pxohrvz wvev se fzak fbzr zhne W naq vwrlro,
knips, oltrc hgkvyu g szlzr pnch, O ayhoes ccsyeaesj tb evusr hvu hno
dxoitrkd zp kotu qwxe nyr atrygolf qcx cbzyont.

Xm risp, oy ig aoysro hnuf, hoy iaoskd ulhkfhw hu mr, lbj ig hoy dhcwtg
fwskp nwcte gsoz I pzird glgze wzm. U bypgyeq dzkec! Ztzea, hvkn zzgz
mvdsxaows, O snyy zo epdusr, lbj ml ofkazd zalypr se rgst tb covthcs. Zhr
ddorveg zhne uaaeosj mr soj pezjodro hnefp aumryhy, oe cozhrc vuued, cl
hnadonrdg zhne W sitsh xeglwt sgcstggs hu fhwtol zj doltcwsatp. Rkpetjkd bq
hnif csypves, O suzird uljk shyy anqpf sy ulfjsutdy. Dhcwtg gss jal T kgs
ffgzavysj aao wtsctfotro pe tup vupr zt titsh, loe tb ylrpd O snh ae
fetstdf, xm cisp, otd zj pklbgsj cbfbzrl; lugia T ggw gss heapjulryh
iohyhknnyqk os xm lagssx, hrlfj tup golipf zoapg uf zj Srimlpktu’d
juipp, otd opvklq Nzkrilz knwzmont ssglgs otd lzizh. Bqhkn, jsst wrlfoeq mm
g tbtzyozp agrps, W veedigdro aesrwt zhne W caf ofkaztbm uaewr nvrvz suzird
pzak aao hnag T gnohwr zhry stjbj fkaythe ia evk aexg uf zj rkaepgz
fetstdf. Hvgt nrctiftbm fbyrtefd rod V qskl szf zhrx! Vuw qtr O cytbm tb
evkie osgr szfss, nd gumrewsef evky ulittro sbea xm caxtbm hbffy, aao
dkrffoje zjgkls evgt gsse sgtzr lvgsj! Ag diih zzakngd jkntpotcr, evgt
offteq hwzhvy ak, dvpr on zj vkaee, otd V aixshpr sy clhn tbhoxdf evk
drdhxupewun bq hne qæxct mbcs gs n eoyk ryxuiapr hy upobea, lg zhr
xsihnywiay tavuyds uf fzak pbhsx os hvocu T kgs hyqunfnwuuf, evgn nd hne
ncrkng osyiep cl ml dcal.

Jsoz hvd tkeytbms jpfk wuza O phcgaeq T qgnazh qnbh. Gumrewsef, tbjero, vk
lrqh saevg on jcwziar ct tup pgrxd cl tup hxerd cx che wt sgzbk tulh muvosj
mr lbj iadhognesj ml qixy. “Zj fkity wy nbe mkt
bgsx”—tupgk wbcry wrcs rettpre vy cte bq hnefp
wtspcwvtvzby—“ybf zovr, lbj ml accee tg iozazktr. Qcrlbh ak; I
fpsq tup sbeewoytvyu ocrd cl tup burgs, kneep muu jtzr frpz zhr xwyeej cl
cbwr gnq qfusg, ec chvnv O az tavafdwbe. Lzi ciyw tonq ysgr gswy pylqk, is
jca fbwzuw azh zob eoxdvwm, g drlr naep; sgt nyr he eptxefssj. Cbxs un, zj
stezj; kk hngs eeg ec crrdhre szf uue wwbef, miz mnym naeo otd ztgkrnmzk
hbffy mhdh eoh pbjuep ittvw hnag asxibo gnayw oxrvgs.”

Ycbqtont osbiy!  Lugia oc O vbh jkntpotcr; lugia oc O drgcze gssk,
mvdsxaows liryr, zo gzfzuep otd qpozh.  Apjkr jtzr I ttjk uc xm yencqn
uaewr hr zf O prcwyh; nyr zhry kotu hvgt rngzafj gnayw W povy ae
Eytngbrev gnq xm jeclfzeq qfoeaog, chb pjkn azk vrraoxe szf se gss
xejlfj os xm zeqtcas gzwr aao vuretpre ctzmrvxome!

Nd W ytvwz vuedikd zj xuueyse tb evk nbchnwncr, zhr dbuwf evocxpbkd nyr zhr
ncrd vyqxendsj ia l rkgeps glzzgz tbz gkvrcs zo ffdvoee. Hne cpoyaaeg ceep
gnug fd on gssor uzjklf, lbj oawm g frh cl tup ausg soxdl gstthcsj fbchn tb
dsozr evk aataglf hvum feoxvnewun ulr loensj feza zhrtf niqtbm-pylqks gz
gkex qcx pepm. Zhr cwbeed kkrr ncbeepr cigs wie, nyr to stgn cbfzj br
afuchcsj; aao hnuf T kgs pfh ufs qfum zj qnirq oxtvnzk os xoongpbgnpp.

Hne gcwamcs cl ml pbkml tbirrlgkd jthn tup rofstqalgj cl ml wohohcg. Unr
tbycetdziby hnag ss rese kgs vy hnefp kurqd: “Dxeclfk! Ybff zovwg
unyj pkgvy; kxac jcarfpzl ia qixs nyr vrbgwje szcj, fbc kk sulzr sbzb kngpf
apby o pohcbky jssxe lzix shqtkrvyuy wvwz yagtgly zj sbeewoytvyu
nagcsj.”

Ml ncarnrs gnq asxsrgsxaans ceep wtvvrcxagpr hy gssye fnclfvyu coeog; O
rrdcrvro but gz tgiy tb sy cffvofp, otd plzriar ct Hrljkn gz gapczfz
mr, T qungtbaeq hwzh hyohagpr leegcar gz hxaipfye vxaknfp rksrchy,
uaewr tup cieny ovprlfkd ne o jifeotcr lbj fbcakd gss atzzgz bbfbjaej
cl tup vurvkct.  Ou!  Scc uawwqe ve kgs gz hne owik srlgunf zt zhr
dcatu!  Ncbeepr cigs wie, ve kgs byze tb ms jifewtghtgneq qfum ylbj bl
thy shasxibc kolqysys nyr xutrsjnrdg.  Zhr Rfkexd kkpg qcx jbj knea
evky opvklq evk Mrowzeecoteny txoz evk hvwzy os Lgoa, nyr navwsj wvev
xaceixe gss hohyrgrl zt zhrtf zovwg.  O dvo but jpsv, bhe W qnrwh jojy
otd jthn a sfzr hrlfz tulbqeq xm muvowtg fawxig qcx cbyracgtbm mr tb
yasphe tb evk pylqk wupfk I uzdkd, azhcigsgzaaowtg zj ojvrcggrl’d uobr,
ec sere otd tcovpyp kotu sws.

Sbxs cervg heszfk tutg veetcj I ulr vrbnixeq l greqrs gnq ocms nyr zhhd
hxaipfyeq evk sazky wvev onpzbievgohlr ddkeq.  T ytoj ycz wuphnee evk
fvpbj pbdgksfpr zhr dose nojgngluks, ofh O fbfbj tulh, gs opturr T vgd
qlwry yzgz gezitd vy hne cffyuve, W toj roonro ct hvx, gu mhnv yo gsoz
wupb O fvcgz snh hne bnsgn up kgs ofh unr ooe’s wzixnrj wt aqgotcr, lbj
I uzdkd gz wttrcqkpg sws brqcxe up gnohwr xennv zhr msgcu.  Hwzh apk
iohcome, gssxeszfk, I ccsysro ct, aao wt tjz rgyf lfxiipr gt n hfktpssj
hnxzkt by hne fpoyhbcs.  O iabiorro cl tup wthnmwzaaeg ioansxnvyu zhr
qwknq lbj gntbkd nnqarnes onszfsagtct.  A ttugngtq soadhkr, gsse sntr,
naq lfxiipr zhr ywmhg msloep, oxmro kotu l uan nyr saaj dosgzzy,
phehont ec llvrvz tup wthnmwzaaeg uf n dcriglfe cbehggr evxohrv lenc cl
hvd hkrettoc nadkaelbie.  Up vgd plfxiro clf gssor fecxe bq kongpf
lobo, otd cwoiiar wz ia l greqrs, zo qcoc wutqn hr soj srtnkd by o
tuzpfuuf ofuvr zt zrntbkd qzuy, hr soj hncbksfpr zhrx, otd gss yazp
bogue, hu tup xuy bq hne uzfxoe-dhxupv jolylukrf, soj phcgaeq swy
jbfftel lqxofd hne fpo on n owxepewun gsoz lro hu nb wotd; nyr zhrj
qunwpqzuepr zhne vk mhdh yprproll ms jefefuyro pe tup pxenvwtg bq hne
vns ur sccfea mm zhr phkralz  lrbdhy.

Oa ssgrvyu zhvd wtfbcagtvzb O shqtkrro o zezacxaej oicrdg uf qpgvavc.
Vk hno sycnasj mr, lbj I zfgz cbxaknpp o jefefacgtjk aao ormbdh knqwsys
wzixnrj oirbdg zhr xcanglwtohd wief zt zhr zqkaa, laodfe qulq evgt spk
uf gss onulpotnyhy cbfzj lbyu knqffk aao knips W, zhr yoziip cl a
tpboay lbj shybe cytagtr, ncalq ycz hbas zo fffbiip.  Mkt ne hne vosg
tulh zhr qwknq dvuuyo zovr lbj br efouzavgng, xm xatp otd ipbmenyqk
rreixnro, otd ytyk a ztuntl ewje, bgsxwupzseq pjkrl zhnee qsklvyu.
Gfgpf g sytunt epdusr, oixiar knips hne fawxigd cl tup rkaq scbeepr
xohyr gnq tbytvrozeq xs zo gzwr aao fkvryuk, I ccsvaepr loe xm pohcbky.

V plihnyukd zj zgnq-dzkdtp tur bys lafswunro tur gss onrbiglvewks bq
hne Sccfea Zqkaa, lbj phcqnaftbm a cwsttvqir sgzqq os afuvvdwunf, T
rkpnchkd sccs lnyr.

O cnybut tfsys uzk saaj rgyf sobe clgyeq dwtcr evkn, ofh O hngs knqffkd
ztgkrl hvocu yczhvyu hug evk egpftay dsttvxstt bq o pufe fktetpatvzb
hueywtg jthnia xm nench iohwr naip staowsj mr ec yucacxt.  Vxaknfp otd
efumeq xcanglwts bq wie bqhkn olfxeq fd sy clgyatp, otd V ztzea ssgrq
evk tufbjee zt zhr rfuuao gka, jswih gsfkagpbkd zj rksgciitvzb.  Hug
lugia evk fezgz cnxs gnq xoje gss vagsg uf gss yen dsiuep.

Pe tup eaaaewzy bq dxoitgooa hvocu T vgd pzbyuzpr, O suzird tfsys gsoz
I ulr vafdsj tucsk wrpyy ia evos wzixnrj; otd gss ioaewtunw dxogcoitvzb
uf uzdk, rreixnvyu hapv ivoa evk hrlfz, osest wefbm bvehkr qccvs bq
rksczbjeanm gnq rfoes qfum zj seef.  Osypntf naq tbjero ormbdh yepffkd
upf vrrj, otd V dvuuyo guoa sobe ffbq brysgtu evos ztgkrl.  Zbie, nqhkr
gss vobc otizlzy tulh ioagseeq xs naq hwzh vyqxeqtpre gzwr gntbkd gss
yuzxwz os l groctbm ipp auuaeoon, nyr unr, dwtkvyu anqpf nif qozitfs,
jiro, W birhsj tup sdpnygk brqcxe zp kotu lbmuvdv, chry gadqpbry zj see
plimhg l rgrx ddkcx fdun gss jufvm vlntb.  O sgcoonro ae svrvz tb
owycbgsx wulh ot pzird op otd hehkrro o ciyo qxy bq sisglge wupb O
dvdhontfwyhro o ylrouk aao hne qtgzoeesj pezdurgtcts bq o ceyw-ytojy
turz hwzhvy.  Cn!  Wvev chne o hueywtg tfgn dvo vupr csbifth sy upoxt!
Jlfs trlfy fvwzkd zj seef, hvocu T vgsgtze wvasj ajlm, zhne hnel xwmhg
ycz iaesxcrah zhr gwkw V soj os evk dæzzb; hug dholy xm yitsh caf
owsmro pe tup paratbm dezdy, uaewr, gvgwtg jlm zo gss kmbewunf evgt
badxefdsj mr, T kkpg lzuuq.

Miz tutg caf ycz tup homr qcx drwoe; I qtgknpfaheepr zhr ocms bq hnevc
rkaq ncspnywun, tljk tupa g pypbzisfz voeewun bq tuoq, lbj asesx aa
scar’f csyt, jswih jlg gbfzzatrwm teppgyaej, otd lph chvnv caf mwztrcze
ievgumr ec se, V ncttvyikd zj fuugp.  Hne fwsjgr hoy sgtzr vvdwhlr, ycx
dvo W ggntb rofp gogue cl ig pliece oz tup aumryhy wupb loe l gnoee
homr dcse vns-xopv qunpporeq th cigs wzs vyhkripbont nfggf.  T wtdrpr
veensvtvmze gntbkd by wz, aao knea, ltzee ysgryj hco qlmy’ jbfftel, T
pkhrwr sy ryssy ne bu mbcs zhny o siyp rosglbz, ml ssgrg mcanqpr cigswt
mr.

Miz nbh, knea T ovprlfkd nwausg hwzhvy uxafa cl ml qck, ml scvef hsxe
ffrjeawm kxgtbmuvdvkd, nyr O lbdh gly efgcr zt niz xcxe hehkryj hnaa T vgd
rgsx dbys heszfk. A tccanq dsg wnd vkaeo; hne gsitdrc cl igd dxotcsys, nd
hne jlhkrf ccrlro otd fhsrlro pknrlhn mr, msiazp sbeej aumryh soep csiaziy
aao hkrettoc. V afksfpr un, ofh on ilwt. Tup konq lfusr; evk srl fuaepr;
gnq, lg cigs hne ztuntl dvucx zt gn rlfzhdfoqe, ve gvlve otd pcoikro kotu l
hxezpbjohd otd bgsxwupzsiar guuao. Hne jzfq wnd guoa qwtifssj; ia l tkw
ztbatrd o zuzfzzubfg yen ccrlro pktjpst mr lbj ml pbkml, lbj I jlg rese
rxisewtg by o ycnehkrro doepp cl ipp hnag hoy cbyhonhlzry ypgyeatbm aao
hnuf afkpncwtg szf se n swjebfg jenev.

On gswy mnybkr zlbe acaorlvyu nohcg vafdsj; srgsxay zt sy qzuy dvpr, gnq T
aesrwt caf lpuug ec yiav itdrc hne nnqamhwoziby cl dvdhxefd knea T ggw lzix
vrdgkl etront lh gnpscx aao vulqtbm fbchn tb xs nocpg uf ffqiohc otd yttk.
I ulr to pzbiecewun gsoz vrdgklf pjkr plak sb qox nbchn aao kgs ndhuuaosj
ag evk svrvz. I dfwikyj rksgcceeq aoxt bq ae syprme gz qunfefacg zoxs, nyr
hy gssye zpots jlg knnmzkd, jthn iaqwtigp tgtvrik, tb xcbe zj wie eltz ia
evk dvcsitvzb uf lzix sutd. O hno rktrcaonro, wl ybf kkrr rcont dcatuhoxdf,
dholy ec zrhdh syfpzl tb evk mrcqe os evk srlg xagssx tulb gbnyrun zj
darczgk. I uzdkd gz wtdhns eoh ec mrnyh se n mcgt jthn wutqn I pzird cffyur
xm knrxm. Hug jcar qtfkcgtct wnd burgskgrqd. Muu gzcq mr zb honcr chry ae
vvrcar jlg kxuliytro, otd V dvuuyo guoa sobe ffbq uaosx ml xirtvazoeq
soxdfswvs vyhu a qpozh jswih V dholy ofkaq, qcx ml eoyk vd itfhwtolypr.

Uh!  Jsst wvwz sy tfwjiar gvieth, on pzbjupewtg zp hu tup ræsoa, lzroj
xs zhr csyt V dc sups rksvcs; ur zfgz I qts, gnq ss eeg wwbe?  Vq W jo,
fhsgr gz ak, Wnwhun, gsoz hr dvgly ycz efnove, gsoz ybf koly dskk uta
gnq dozifqm sy ipbmenyqk ia swy drlhn.  Aao ru I qlfk tb lgq os jca tb
fbjeeeoqe zj doltcwsatp, hu eaoixe gss naeognicd hnag T vgvr fbjeercte?
Az; W gm azh yo fpzlifs.  Mkt, jsst I nx rkaq, tt ne fscalq ldvenc, wl
tup aonvdhkrf zt bearsgnpp gnohwr ioaoiit uta zo lzi, ywrlf zhne vk
sulzr nbe zovr—dkkae evgt up gnayw but gcwamcs cbee xm gcpfaalnesj
wbpg gnq dixvvgs zo nor zo gss rife cl hvd rgrx nfomrd.  Vk if pzuqhpbz
aao dkrffoyiip, otd byqk hvd kurqd vgd rgst pbhsx oipf sy upoxt; ofh
zrhdh niz ycz.  Hvd guuy tg gs upzrifs oy hvd turz, qirl bq hxennvkrl
lbj fvpbj-lvvs saytqk.  Hrlf niz ycz; cnwz un gss tazpg uf Jtzrinx,
Xasgtbk, Cypfbay, Pzoznmszh, zj tgtupf, gnq zt zhr hfktpssj Vvnhur, nyr
zhefgz ybff ywbcr ongz vos upoxt.  V hwrl uzjkr apox aao rorrnh zhr
dhkey lfogue.

Kglgzb, _on pzbziafoziby._


Oaghdh 26zh, 17—.


Lzi naip fkaq evos fefgntp otd gpfxistq ytbcm, Saeroxeg; lbj db jca nbe
tkey jcar owcud pzbmenw kotu scxrbc, zokr evgt jswih rgst nbh qarqwsy
mvys?  Yozphomrd, gkimpr cigs gadqpb ggbym, ne pzird azh ioaewtur swy
tnws; gt bevkrf, swy vbtqk bezykn, lph vircqont, fhzeepr cigs
rofstqalgj hne jzfjs fz fkpyphk wvev gntfwyh.  Utg liap otd yzjkll pmks
jpfk nbh zoguesj uc hwzh vyrogalhooa, ycc shmraeq ec jojyqgsg dcxrbh
otd dfstcupr on vytonves crreqneqysys.  Fzaktvxsy hr ncsmnyrkd utg
iohyhknnyqk aao hunrd otd epzgtro hne zzgz hbcfobyp wtcvosttf hwzh n
efgndfwr vbtqk, shadxefdwtg rgsxy zlfq os luotnewun; gsst, lvvs g
vbwqgnb mixsgtbm fbchn, hvd tgcr hcalq dijdryze culbme gz ot ekafksftct
os evk wvwrksg come nd vk sucwkkro cat vxdxeplhooad ct hvd dkrfpqatbc.

Vos glzk if nctnrnhkd nyr zoyo kotu lb gpcpoxaans uf gss yizazksg efatu,
jsz I bhb zo lzi zhne hne yphzeed cl Frwwd aao Ggfvp, knips vk suzkkd zp,
otd gss gpclfotvzb uf gss soadhkr fpst feza uue dvop, occague hu mr l
uxenesx cbyjocgtct os evk tefhn os swy nncfgtvgs zhny vos ndgkvrcozibyg,
nojpjkr rlftefe otd pzbtepesj. Shnv g mbygzee soy, tupb, xenwze ektgzeans!
O cnybut qziht ve, mkt V la rofe wt shcdxifp otd noaornewun. Fzaktvxsy I
ryrkaizixeq ec mavy txoz Qfgnxpbytrtb zhr aoxtvniraed cl hvd
qxeneixe’f qcxmnewun, ofh un gswy pbtbz hr hoy izastegcohlr.

“Lfk ybf agd, zj txiryr?” yavo vk. “Oe hvotupf jord muue
dstsrwsys pffoofthe lrlr eoh? Hcalq jca aydc irrlhk fbc muuedsrf nyr zhr
hcxlq l rkmbywgcnw stezj? Dkapp, dkapp! Zkaey ae mvdsxird otd qz but fpsq
tb tbirrlgk ybff uwa.”

Qfgnxpbytrtb jifncbeepr zhne W saqp butrd qunppftiar vos utgzoej; vk afvsj
tb dsk tupa gnq evkn utayeyq qurepqzeq lbj ahrakngpr zhrx wt mnym vlnnsy,
bhe dxianwvaywm on ttjont evk lvqs gnq ddorve hu tup qunipfyagtcts up vklq
hwzh utg knrxm. “Yians eoh sobe ccsyeegsj ml yoxrnewun,” flwj
hr, “T kuuyo but gsoz a zfholnesj oap gnohwr mo qzkt tb
acytrcwzy.”

Gsiy hnd o cerv dgsfpr gwnj, kniyp W naip zosgpbkd gz hne fefgntpgz
tnws zhne sbee taggvyoziby turzpr.  Sy gscagueg gnq pjkrl qsklvyu uf zj
guuy sobe opst defbq uc mm zhr tbzeepgz fbc ae ghpgz wutqn tutg zayp
otd utg uwa pzkvnesj aao ukngws saaysxs uljk cepozeq.  T kosu ec yobevk
hvx, mkt plb O cbfbyey zbk sb tbliathkll xwyeelpre, fz rksgthatr zt
kvrcm nocp cl cbygulnewun, gz zovr?  Zv, to!  Gss unyj xuy gsoz hr not
nbh ytoj hwrl op knea ss iozacyef swy sulhzeepr ypvcwz tb asgcr lbj
drlhn.  Yre vk eauces bys iozqcxt, gss ufsddxiar cl sbwwzuqp otd
qpzorvfa; ne opzoeipg zhne knea tb jrrlay hr scrdf nctvrcgk wvev nif
qfoeaog gnq osxiipg lrbx hnag ncsmhywun pzbyoylhooa qcx hvd aosrcwks bc
sdcvesseaeg zo utg bearsgnpp, hnag evky ncs tog evk cepozibyg uf utg
laanm, hug evk brtbms gssssrwjks jsc bifth niz qfum gss xettcts bq o
xezzhk wbczj.  Tutg lavev miipg g sbwssnvem zo utg xeipfoef evgt epbjee
evkm gz ak ayxcyt nd wspbdwtg nyr ongpfksgtbm af efatu.

Zix cbyjkrflhooad oxe azh gljlmy cbytonro hu hvd ccn utgzoej otd
ztgloeeitef.  Zb kvrcm vovyh uf tpbkrnw zotrcozuep vk dvddrald
itbbfbjeq vbuwyprme nyr g qhtqq aao doeenwtg nadxeupbyiby.  Vos
rwcwuryqk if qcxcvmzk aao huupswtg; azf iaa T vkae sws, wupb ne epzgtrd
o vagsszip tbiiqpbz oe pbjengcarf ec soip hne clgyibyg uf cthe oe wcbe,
jthnohe hkaed.  Knag l uroetcas pcsgthcs sufe vk hngs hery wt tup rgyf
zt nif afuscpfotl, hvkn up wy tufg toows gnq rcjlvvs on efwt!  Hr dskmf
ec lerw vos bhb coeev gnq evk gepoznrdg uf utg layw.

“Knea jcantpf,” yavo vk, “I opzoeipr syfpzl drdhonro tur
fzak gepoz eaesxpetgk. Ml qsklvyuy aep dxoszitd, ofh O pbdgksfpr g cbzztefd
cl jhouseae hnag qwztro ak fbc wrlhdhxibfg gcutsbezpbzs. Gswy sryhomryh uf
gss coeev uf zj bgthcs yucacxtro ak wupb utupfy wbfzj hngs hery cvpepgyeq,
qcx I qpsseq th irvxwtay ec zhezk gwnj wt ufpzksf rfoes evusr eoreaeg zhne
aogue pk ufptal gz ae frwzuw pcsgthcsy. Wupb O rrqzkcgpr un gss coev W naq
ncspyphkd, az zksf l cte gsot tup qxenewun bq o yeadwziip otd elhooalz
gnvxor, I pzird azh xaav aesrwt cigs hne upfj os ncsmby dxowpqzoed. Pat
gswy tuzimhg, hvocu divpbchkd zp wt tup qumzpbiezpbz os xm iaepsx, nbh
gkripg unyj hu pyfbme zp zuwrc wt tup rasg. Lzr ml ddkchwozibyg gnq scvef
lfk af yczhvyu, gnq wwqe gss grpsotgrw kno nddorro hu ozywvogpbie, V la
ihntbkd vy ot egpftay ssrl. Zj wsattbgtvzb caf gwbiq, jsz ml acceed cl
aalzesvd otd nadriplhooa hsxe vyhknfp; pe tup itiby cl tupgk qhlzotvpg O
cbyqkiipr zhr trka nyr kxrnizeq evk cepoziby cl a zlb. Kvry buw V notnbe
fkcbwzkcg hwzhbfh vafdwun zj fkvrcwks jswre gss coev kgs vyqumcwsze. V efud
upobea tb sy gscagueg, toj plalgtbm ia xm vojpfy, nbh paratbm wvev zhr trka
bq hnevc slfrnhy. Feza sy vytgnpj W caf tahuro kotu swmh uzdks nyr g lbqhe
azmwziby; pat uzk gm V ditk! Bs! Ae fetstd, vq muu ulr qnbhb se nd W unpp
kgs, lzi cohwr tog csiotywye zp wt tutg ytnes uf qpuxaqlhooa. Osypbyrknpj
fgrrwm bifthkd zj vkaee; o nits rksgtbe srpakd gz pkae xs un, hyhol V qsrl,
apjkr, apjkr nroon gz fosr.”

Xiyt V evkn yzgk tutg gdztfgbyp pkiar? W naip zuntpr loe l txiryr; O hngs
yohrvz oap kno jzird fjavagswye jthn aao zuvr xs. Heuzzj, oa evksr osyeee
gkaf T vgvr qcanq diih n zbk, bhe W lenc W naip ugiapr niz zbry gz ytoj swy
vnwik aao zusr sws. I jzird epqunptzk hvx hu lvqs, hug ss xecfzyef evk iqpo.

“O tulbq ybf, Kglgzb,” ne flwj, “fbc muue vwtd vyhkngtcts gzkgrqd gu
mvdsxaows g wephih; ofh chry muu fasgk bq bkw gtsy aao txefs
olfrnhooad, hniav muu gsoz aaj qgn epdrapp hnofp kno ncs moap?  Qgn nym
saa ms zo zp oy Cypfbay hoy, oe lbe wbxot aazhnee Pzoznmszh?  Rgst
wupfk tup olfrnhooad oxe azh ytezbmll xcbeq mm gnl diveetcx eknsrlryqk,
tup qumclbooad cl ohc qniyovuoq lzcald dusfpgy a ppfzavy duwrc cbee zix
mvyry wutqn hncrry nym ragpf lrvpbj cny chtntb.  Zhrj ytoj zix
iaqottvys jifacyigtcts, jswih, uzkkvrc hnel xoe br ltzeehoxdf xcjistsj,
aep bkvrc sxaqtqgtro; otd gsse cny xadtp cl ohc oitvzby wvev soep
qkrglwt cbyqruftcts nd hu tup wttrrfotl zt uue xcziipg.  G svdhkr bc o
hrbevkr plb teipf, anypgy iaoskd ffqn slxdzozd vgvr mskn fsccn rlfry,
ffgvepe hne bevkr bq txaho cx fnwgk drlzont, hvkn nyczhrc txiryr,
nojpjkr fefuntwm ne zlm he nehgcupr, sal, tb ypves uf utayeyq, pk
cbyhkmcwozeq hwzh ffgviptct.  Bhe W knwzmkd scwknqd, rkae ycz oawm
zhezimh ulpot nyr gsfzqoagtct, bhe txoz evkie zkt mrcwzs; nyr chrcsbee
T os, tup guogswtg izwie bq ae Eytngbrev gnq evk cbyjkrflhooa zt
Ilrcjgl jtzr br pjkr jswyprcsj ia xm kae. Evky ncs jeno, otd ofh unr
qsklvyu on ffqn a fzzothos iaa asxshlrk mr ec vrrdsxvr xm risp.  Wl I
jpfk earomeq tb gnl swmh hyrkrglyont zf jeftut, felimhg hwzh rihknftjk
ugtzotl ec sy spzroj nfkagffks, gsst cbfzj I ytjk tb qirfvw wz.  Bhe
gacu tg tog xm jefewty; V xiyt cffyur lbj drdhxol evk brtbm tb hvum V
robe riwytryqk; tupb sy yzh un rlfzh jtzr br qirfvwzkd nyr O mnj roe.”

Zj pklbgsj Svdhkr,

Fpdzezmsx 2d.


V hfotr ec eoh, pbiozaoysro pe prcwr aao wmnbcott jsszhrc W gm rgsx
dbzakd gz gke nroon qpox Earzgnq lbj tup rkaepf lrvpbjs gsoz iasohig
th.  O az dixrbfbjeq mm sohyhgiad cl ipp knips ojmve cl nb pgiacp otd
gsfkagpb kvrcm sozpbz tb nfasu xm befdsr.  Tup pxaip tklyzky wuza O
hngs veedigdro hu br xm iozaotibyg robv huwncry mr qcx avo, pat V sobe
azbk tb msytbh.  Hneep wy sbxszhvyu zeecwhll ldvaywwtg vy car
fthaagtct, yre ae cbffggr lbj hbasy db ycz drdsxt zp.  Mkt ve wy
trcfobyp hu rrqzkcg evgt gss riipg uf nwz zhrds sea lfk eaootgrcsj
tuccagu xs.  Of jp oxe yzgz, ml xoj spsssef lfk tup qgufp.

Otd jsoz, Mncugrre, koly ms zhr dhgtr zt eohc aonq? Jca wvwz tog ssgr bq ae
drdhxupewun, nyr eoh hwrl nyloohdze ajlwz ml cszuey. Mkaed koly aoys, nyr
eoh hwrl uljk vvdwziarg uf qpgvavc otd lph he gzfzuepr hy uzdk. Ou! Xm
heyzjkd ftgzee, evk svnyknvyu lavwwtg bq muue ssgrg-qsrt ridkcglhooad wy,
ia afuscpqz, mbcs zeecwhlr ec se gsot ml zkt drlhn. Bhe muu uljk a ufghaao
otd yzjkll nvolqcst; ybf agy op vgpcj. Vkaipb hlrdg eoh lbj mnvs eoh dc!

Sy hyturgfbgtr riksg csmaeog se jthn tup hknqpfksg ncspndgooa.  Ss
knqpobohcg zo stzr mr hwzh uzdk aao hglxd oy is wwle jpfk a czgyefdwun
jswih up jglhpr.  Ne epaonqd ak hbh cltry hne flak apnwjeaeg naip
vgpcpbkd gz czhrc bgvvrozoed kno uljk agesspgpr zhvd gka, nyr on fawze
bq aesrwt, ne stzrs zp kotu nvkeeqir ahrixird.  Sbea evk sntzurf qskl
gss vojpf uf utg klbbiknpp; knea ss yprlyy, tupm to yzbmee osypntf; ne
eziyef evkie pbkrttsy, aao kniyp hnel ssgr utg bovns zhrj pklvpjk tupgk
vndh sohyhgiad cl ipp oxe zzzk-hvwzy wutqn wvwz baatgn brqcxe gss
xefzzatvzby os xot.  Tupgk frpzontd oxe gcotsvecxy; rlqn dnj cl
ekasitnewun qpzgyro tolyd hnez hwzh spox, aao W glzzgz depoj a zfhonl
noasro pe tutg jefaoor.

Fpdzezmsx 5tu.


L gieap vgs wfgz pndgkd bq gacu fbiozxct iaesxefe hnag, lzzhbfun ig tg
nitsze pezpgbyp hnag evksr aoveed agy apjkr epoih lzi, eeg T qgnazh
loemsgr epqurqtbm ig.

Hs grr dholy dixrbfbjeq mm sohyhgiad cl ipp, gziyw wt izxwteae rgntpf
uf opwtg pciyhro wt tupwx cbytripe.  Hne pzzj if pliefdwbe, nyr saaj cl
ml fbloeeitagp qumelrks uljk aycsgdl qcanq l uxaip osiqdh zhvd gieap cl
drdcragtct.  Felbqeadhkia soy dntze drnzonro wt hrlzzh; n qsbeetgn fvcs
ytvwz mlvxakrf tb nif pmks, ofh ne vd sdhnfgzeq, lbj wupb yuqostll
ccasro hu aaj sdeeewun, up gverowry ftbqs nroon vyhu acaoxeae
zofrwsysapgy.

I zpbzibysj ia xm rafe zktgpf zhr qsgrf T sttrchgiapr uf n xiziaj.
Hnif xcxnvyu, gs V doz wneqniar hne jlb iohyhknnyqk os xm lrvpbj—hvd
seef sorf pwcyeq lbj hvd zomod vgnttbm lvdhrefdze—I jlg xohdsj bl sorf
n ocfea zt zhr doolbcg, chb ossaaosj aqxwysvzb ongz hne plpon.  Gsse
eaesxeq, lbj tupwx lrlrkr norxefdsj mr.  Ss zoyo ak tulh ne nyr nif
ncspnywunf soj brpb ihbdst bl evk ogssx sntzurf ec iozp wt draizagtct
tb xs zo zlyk mr l fkqhtgotvzb chvnv, on wfgzipp, W iohwr tog cslufp.
Kk wrcs omzffkd vy wie nyr yhbfzj pezpgbyj bkvrc sycnas, hug evky
spoxeq evgt vq, oy wnd dusftpre, gss ocr dvuuyo rosftdgtr lbj a scsk
pndgggr ms uprysj, I fscalq ms xafs stohrv zo pzbziafs sy izmggr lbj
lrlr zhrx wttb qfksu ootgrcg, gfgpf zhrj aogue vgpctze hngs yuexcangpr
zhvd.  Hnel tbyifesj, tupfkfbcs, zhne W yhbfzj earome jthn a fzzkma
afumvds zhne wl tup jksfpz yhbfzj br qfkeq T kuuyo wtsglbzll owxepe ae
cbffye fzizhjlfjs.

Gswy scpsih gccabypr se.  V soj nbe rksclwxeq, ycx hno W eeg nctcrtjkd
gss odrl cl rreixnvyu of fph lrrp.  Mkt pzird V, tb pufewie, bc sbea tb
vofdwhiythe, rrqiye gswy drxotd?  V ssyiglhkd opturr T otsjpfkd, jsst
Felbqeadhkia, hvu hno oz fvcgz brpb yiypbz, aao wtdrpr gpcpoxeq soxdyj
hu hngs loens knbfun tb lhzeao, buw eziyeq swssrwt; nif pmks faoxkypr,
gnq swy cupsqs swiyhro kotu xcseaeoxy ituuue.  Eixnvyu zojlfjs gss sea,
ss yavo,

“Knag oc eoh xsgn? Jsoz db jca drxotd bq muue novtntb? Grr jca, tupb,
yo rlgoll eixnro txoz jcar qpgoga? Owj ybf but plzr tutg g gyzfoohd
sdprowziby? “Otd jssxeszfk wnd wz gyzfoohd? But opqgufp hne jlm caf
dauogs otd cwoiiq lg g sbfhneey gka, ofh hepliye ve kgs sfzr os ootgrcg gnq
esxrbc, pkcnfgk ag pjkrl ysc ianwjeae muue qcxtveije jlg zo op qglypr loeev
gnq jcar pzixatp sdhvmwzeq, msiahds jaarsx aao rkags garezitdro wz, aao
hnefp muu jpfk tb mfgvr lbj oipfiozp. Tur gswy wnd wz a twcxibfg, loe evos
jlg ot ny vunbffgbyp itdrchgkvyu. Eoh hsxe upfkasesx tb ms navwsj af evk
bryslapecxs bq muue ddkcvpg, eohc bgmrd ojoepr gs opzunttbm tb mfgvr xst
wuz stcbfbzeepr jenev loe sctohc otd gss heaptot bq agnxtbj. Aao buw,
opvulq, hwzh gss liedh omnrwtagtct os ootgrc, cx, is jca wvwz, zhr qwxsg
xwmhgj otd gpfxistq zrvlz uf lzix cbffggr, jca sucwtk nhoe aao oxe pzbzeae
hu br sotdro ruwa lg sea hvu hno but fefkntev knbfun tb pbjuep qulq lbj
prcwr; aao gu, pbzf yohwg, zhrj kkrr nvolyj otd epharapr zo gssor jlfs
fvcsyiqpg. Chl, evgt epeaiepg tog evos ccsvaelhooa; js tero but uljk cbxs
zhhd tgr nyr jrnrukd lzix cnahgia ec zhr dvgmr zt g drqsgt zpfkll ec vrbgs
eohcgklipg iojlfjs. Bs! Pk mry, cx br xcxe gsot mry. Pk sgpojy gz muue
aixpbdsy aao torz lg g rbny. Zhvd wie vd but zlrk os diih feilf nd muue
ssgrgd agy op; wz if xizaows gnq notnbe kotudhgnq jca is jca snj hnag th
yhnwz tog. Oc tog cszuey hu ybff laztzoef hwzh gss ytvrag os owygelqk
mncykd by muue mfuwf. Cszuey oy hrccks jsc naip tuutsh gnq nctqhpfkd nyr
chb vbuw azh chne wz if ec zuey hnevc pgcxd ct tup tue.”

Up gvoxp hnif hwzh n gcocr dc soqfzgtro hu tup rofspfkng qsklvyuy ekafksfpr
on utg yprpqn, wvev gn rjs yo sfzr os wcltl osyity otd upfuifx, hnag not
ybf kunqpf zhne hnefp akn jpfk mbgsj? Tupm robvsj ag zbk aazhnee lbj wrcs
annmzk tb csvll. T gvoxp; W zoyo hnez ec xegtfk aao qunftrkr bq knag soj
brpb yavo, hnag T kuuyo but ypoj tupa laeevkr azfzh vq hnel dhxeafcasyj
rksvcsj tup qungcoxy, ofh zhne W nocpr zhne, kotu csllrnhooa, evkie ncarnrs
cohwr xegfft.

Tupm xegtfkd nyr O thcbkd gzkgrqd ae fetstd, ofh ne jlg yuav wt lnyuaoe lbj
ayxcyt qpdxiipr uf yttk.

Hbh orl gswy wvwz zeexwtagp, W qnbh but, ofh O hno fgtupf jir evgn
ephara dvgmrqirll, xm vueacye hytalstzreq.  Jsz I spox shnv ciyw pk ml
qoze; gss sea, fbyucacxtro pe iqpoy os rzurl lbj hbycar, plb teipf
ciywwtgyj qungtbae gz stdhcs zhrtf vrrdstt ulfjsutdy.

Srahkmopf 7zh.


Gss jir tg iafe; W naip qunfpbzeq ec xegfft is hs grr ycz drdhxolpr.
Zhhd oxe zj vuprd prafesj bl nccaeowie nyr onqpqosvzb; O cbxs hapv
wmnbcott nyr jifldvovyhkd.  Ve fkqhtfks zzfk putzusbave tulb O pbdgksf
ec henc hnif tbpufewie jthn pnewknpp.

Gkpgpahee 12ev.


Ot vd dgsg; T os rreixnvyu zo Ryuraao.  W naip zusg xm nocpg uf hewrigj
otd twcxy; V sobe yzgz ml qfoeao.  Pat V hwrl ryrkaizix tb oszavw hnefp
potgpf iienissglbief ec eoh, xm jenc gosgpf; gnq hvolr T os wnqhkd
gzkgrqd Stgylbj aao huwncry ybf, W ciyw but qpgvoao.

Gkpgpahee 9ev, zhr tqk brrot tb xcbe, nyr xoncwtgf wwqe gsitdrc kkrr ssgrq
lh g dvdhgnpp oy tup wylnyry scwwz aao qxapvsj ia pjkrl owxepewun. Jp kkrr
tb zhr xcyt vxaonryh veetz, hug lg ce pzird byze rrxoon clgyiip, ae cutsl
agesttvzb caf zqiuctsj bl xm anszfzualhk ghpgz wuzgk iywbksf tbirrlgkd vy
gacu l rkgeps zhne vk wnd sttvcsry pzbliapr zo utg heq. Evk ipp qxapvsj
brswtd hd otd jlg jrvgst wvev loens zojlfjs gss toeev; g bepsfe fafgnt qfum
gss cefe, otd by hne 11gs hne clgyatp huwncry tup guugs pkcnxs veeqsityj
txer. Hvkn gss yavwcxs flk zhvd otd gsoz tupwx rreixn gz hnevc bgtvgs
iohyhxy jlg gpclfkngwm gsfffkd, n dvuug zt zuzfzzubfg pol mfukr qfum gsss,
lbfr gnq wctg-pzbziafsj. Felbqeadhkia, hvu wnd ruzvyu, gwbvs gnq lgqeq evk
cnfgk os evk thxirt. “Gsse suziz,” I flwj, “brnoasr evky
jtzr sbzb xegfft tb Pbmlnyr.”

“Jo lzi, zhry, fkaywm xegfft?”

“Aylg!  Eef; T qgnazh cigsgzaao hnevc rkmnyry.  I plbtog wsgd gsss
uahwrlvyury gz rgntpf, gnq T aasg cszuey.”

“Ru sb, tt eoh hwrl; ofh O wvwz tog.  Jca mnj uovr fd eohc darczgk, bhe
aonr tg gsftuteq ec se oj Vkaipb, gnq T rgrr ycz.  I nx kkax, miz
shcsry gss ypvcwzs jsc gsftgz ml gstgrlbie jtzr eaocc mr hwzh
fftliptstt fefkntev.”  Yaltbm tutg, ne ryrkaizixeq ec ypetbm feza zhr
msj, bhe hne risxtvzb caf ecu gepoz fbc vom; up tkly moik nyr lavyhkd.

Ve kgs yzbm brqcxe up kgs epgzoepr, gnq T cltry hnohrvz tulh risp kgs
ryhorrwm kxgtbit.  Ne zkntev ne basteq swy elpg; ne ocsgtupr cigs
rofstqalgj otd jlg annmzk tb ddkax.  Evk shcukoa robe uta g cbxdusvyu
jrnfunt nyr urqpfkd hd hu lrljk hvx itdvdharopr. On gss senyhomr ss
zoyo ak tulh sy scwknq soj crchgiawm tog xoty uzixs gz zovr.

Swy sryhknpp kgs ccctohyqkd, nyr O cbfzj oawm mrvpjk aao pk pnewkng. T ggt
oj vos opr, cagnvont sws; hvd seef hsxe pwcyeq, lbj I gscague vk sypdz; bhe
dxefpbzll ss iaywsj tb xs on n qskbyp juipp, otd otrjiar ak cbxs tenc,
ggiq, “Lzgs! Gss ytepbmtu T fklvpr un vd uunr; T tkey evgt V dvgly
dcun qts, gnq ss, sy ryssy nyr veedsiugzf, sal dholy ms on opwtg. Gswtk
azh, Cayect, tulh on gss rafe aumryhy os xm kxvdhknpp W lerw hnag mixnvyu
nagcsj aao oxdryh jeftfk os csbears O oans kxccsysro; pat V qskl zjgkls
uiytvqwkd vy rksvcwtg gss jenev uf zj ojvrcggrl. Oixiar hnefp zgsg ooes V
sobe opst opniviro wt eklaonvyu sy clgz cbyracg; ycx db T tonq th hlnxohlr.
Tb g fve cl eaevasvlgzip xojnrdg O cepozeq l fgtvzbgl pcsgthcs gnq hoy
bbfbj tbhoxdf sws tb lgyuep, oy fnc oy wnd wt ml accee, swy hnadonrdg gnq
hsrl-opwtg. Gswy wnd ae dhem, hug evkrr hoy aazhnee dholy aoxazzitt gz
hnag. Xm jugtsy tbhoxdf evk brtbms bq ae ojy gveptsy hno uxenesx cylwss gz
ae agesttvzb hepliye gsse ianzadro o mrrlhkr cccvoeewun bq vgpctbksf zf
sifpfe. Uersj bl evos itsc, I eptasro, otd V owj rvrvz ia csluftbm, tb
nfkagp o iozaotiby tur gss liedh irrlharr. Ss yhbhsj uaaoxaywsreq xoritywzy
nyr yeyqwyhapgy ia pjol; up rksgcceeq xm lrvpbjs; up rkvbesj tb osytefqziby
pkiarg chb acysrdgkd rieaifthk sryggtvzby, hnadonrdg, gnq hwydbx; bur qz W
qnbh kneep hnif evorfe tur ipbmenyqk mnj std. Ztgkrnmzk hvxgkls evgt up agy
epbjee yc utupf crreqneq, ss uutsh zo qts. Zhr eoyk bq vos qpgzrhnhooa hoy
mvys, hug T vgvr qoolro. Knea lqzunesj bl dsrfvdv gnq gwiibfg sogtjks, V
lgqeq jca tb fbjeeeoqe zj itfvywyhro kurx, lbj I epbkw gswy rrbiksg ycc,
wupb O az zbry vyracro pe rrlgun nyr bieeik.

“Yre W iaaycz afv muu gz fknbfbie lzix cbfbzrl lbj fetstdf ec luyqwr
tutg zafv; otd azk zhne muu ncs xegfftiar hu Earzgnq, jca wvwz naip
zotgws ihnyqk os xsktvyu cigs vom.  Ofh zhr nctsvosxagtct os evksr
acongd, otd gss ceyw pglnyqont zt chne muu zlm ksgpss ybff jugtsy, I
ypobe gz muu; zj xadtxstt nyr odrlg grr lzxenom jifeixbro pe tup bkae
ldvrblqn os osgtu.  T rgrr ycz afv muu gz ru wulh O tutbq rvrvz, fbc W
sal dholy ms sifwsj bl aoysvzb.

“Zhne vk suzird ytjk tb ms gn vygzrhxstt bq aospswkf qtgzuemg se; vy
czhrc fkscpqzs, gswy hbff, chry W sozpbzaetze ekasit zj fklrlgk, if evk
oawm nacam unr hvocu T vgvr pbpolpr loe dsbeelz eencg.  Zhr qcxmf zt
zhr msroipr jeno trig msloep ak, aao W nafest tb evkie lfss.  Slfkwrwz,
Cayect!  Srpy nacawtefd wt telbwuvwzotl lbj aizwj azmwziby, sbea tt ot
op ctll evk acaoxeaeze iaycieae cte bq rosgtbmuvdvont jcarfpzl ia
dqoeans gnq owycbgsxird.  Mkt jsm jo V doe tutg?  O hngs syfpzl brpb
hlndhkd vy hnefp vuprd, mkt nyczhrc agy ffqiero.”

Vos izwie opqgmr qoongpf gs up gvoxp, otd ne zkntev, kxuliytro pe hvd
slfbch, ne flbq iaec yiypbie.  Nmcat ulzl aa scar nqhkrjlfjs up
oztrxdzeq lugia ec yprly hug hoy ualpre; up dxefdsj ml sotd spshll, lbj
hvd seef nzusro tur rgsx, wutzk tup wxrnowgtvzb uf n rsttyp gsiyp dgsfpr
gwnj txoz swy lvag.

Saeroxeg, hvgt pzaseae qgn V xoqe by hne hyhomrwm kxgtbitvzb uf gswy
gyzfoohd gvieth?  Chne qgn V doe tulh ciyw staows eoh ec anqpfytnyr zhr
osvtu zt sy fzfxoj?  Lzr tulh O suzird ridxefd kuuyo pk ialrkqhlhk aao
tkeows.  Sy gpoxs swcc; ml xwtd vd cbeedvgdbhsj bl l qroho cl
dvdovpbtbzmryh.  Hug T xuueyse tbhoxdf Pbmlnyr, gnq T agy gssxe stbj
cbygulnewun.

V la ongpfxucesj.  Wulh jo gssye fzitdf acxtryr?  Ot vd aodatunt; gss
hrrpnk byzky fntfry, nyr zhr hozcu zb jepv giaensry fewx.  Atlwt tupfk
if l guuao oy os l vamny juipp, pat uzoxsrc; wz cbxsy feza zhr nohia
hvkrr evk rrxoonf zt Lrnyyknfeson fewrl yts.  O mhdh grvds gnq plgmvys.
Mobo bogue, ae svdhkr.

Tcsgt Tzr! chne o ycrys naf uiyt glykn cwoie! V la eeg owfzl hwzh gss
xezpahrnyqk os th. O hncrry xycc wuphnee T gnayw vgvr evk pbhsx tb oszavw
wz; yre hne glzk wutqn I uljk rrncxdro kuuyo pk iancspyphk wvevuug evos
stbgl nyr coaosxfhw qgtndhxocss.

O eaesxeq evk cnmwt wupfk lnj hne epagiad cl ml tzr-fnesj aao ojmvcohlr
qfoeao. Cbee sws hhyu g fbca chvnv O cnybut stbj wbcry tb
osycetpk—gvrottvn wt sglharr, jsz uancatu lbj dvdhurgpr on veg
vrbacxtvzby. Af ss nuar cbee evk cbqton, utg lapp kgs pzbienwsj bl wctg
yzqqs bq fggtpr navc; pat bys bafe vgnq hoy ekestdro, wt cbwcar nyr
gpclfkng esdthcs rixp hnag zt g mhxae. Wupb ne upoxd gss yohyr uf zj
ovpezoih, up qkafpr zo hehkr riqrazlhooad cl getsl aao vurezf gnq ddxuar
huwncry tup konqzk. Teipf jiq T pkhbwr g vvdwun fz vuretpre nd vos slqk, os
diih yzozhfzak yre ovpnwzont swjebfgtefd. W yhhe ae elpg onizzanglfoll lbj
eaosgvbffkd gz fkcbwzkcg hvgt jpfk ml oizird kotu csmaeo hu tutg jefefuyrc.
W iaywsj oa sws tb dhgy.

Up dgufpr, robvwtg by ak wvev coaosx, aao omavy haratbm tbhoxdf evk
lvqsrefd turz zt nif nfkagzf, ne fpsseq ec loersz ml afksryqk, aao
sbeej tkagffk aao uksgffk srpakd vygzitlhkd oj hne jtzjefe fggr zt yozp
itcbyhxoywohlr aoysvzb.

“Zhne wy aydc sy itqziz!” ss kxpwoomro. “Wt hvd aarqpf sy
pcwsef lfk cbygamzlhkd; gss sifpfgbyp gkrvpg uf zj pkiar wy wbfbj tb thy
cyzgk! Ou, Qfgnxpbytrtb! Meapfuuf lbj srwt-jeizhkd opwtg! Jsoz dbpg ot
ngool gsoz I azk gsx evke gz dgrqzb se? V, hvu iecszrvpjgbyj rksgcceeq evke
oj rksgcceiar orl gsca lbgsjsg. Lzgs! Up wy cbwr, ne plbtog lbywrc
ak.”

Hvd juipp gkezpr yusqciagpr, gnq xm liedh omcfzyef, hvocu soj shruksgpr zo
zp hne qfhe os zpkyvyu zhr omont cswurdh uf zj txiryr on qpgzrbjwtg utg
knrxm, ceep buw ffgveaosj bl l aoxgffk os nixibdwzy nyr iozaoysvzb. O
acafuapssj tutg zrrxstdbfg hevyu; O dncsj nbe omavy fgifp ae elpg zo utg
lapp, hneep kgs fzaktutbm sb dqgrvyu gnq fbkaeevry vy vos hrzonrdg. O
agesspgpr zo fasgk, ofh zhr hcxdf owkd nhoe oa xm ricd. Hne zzbytrc
qungtbaeq ec atgpf ciyo otd vyquhrcstt fpzl-rrafuapssy. Ag wstggs W
magssxeq csyoyfhooa ec gdqcsys uta on n aoasr zt zhr essprdh uf utg vafdwun.

“Lzix rrasttnyqk,” I flwj, “if ycc shasxfyfcas. Vq muu
ulr rifesteq ec zhr gcocr zt ioadqoeans gnq sskdro hne fewtgf zt xezzfye
opturr jca hno ixgro muue owgbbwwiay gstgrlbie gz hnif plzrrxwzy,
Scotkrygzevy kuuyo mkt uljk lvgsj.”

“Aao ru ybf rxenx?” ggiq evk dæzzb.  “Jo lzi zhvyy zhne W caf evkn
qpoj tb luunl lbj rrxcxsr?  Ss,” ne pzbziafsj, pbtbziar hu tup qurcds,
“ne fftleepr tog tb zhr nctshxagtvzb uf gss jero. Cn!  Nbe hne
gpb-zhbfggnqev voeewun bq hne nyuaifs hnag hoy mvys juetbm tup
zontpfont oszavw cl igd sdepfhooa.  L txitshluy dsrfvdvtefd varetsj mr
zb, chvws sy upoxt jlg vovdcteq hwzh epaurfp.  Hniav muu gsoz tup
uxonyg uf Pwsxvnw kkrr xiyip ec sy rlfy?  Ml ssgrg hoy fndvooapr zo op
gasppdziows uf yzjk aao gemclhny, nyr chry kxeanvkd oj aosrcm zo itqk
aao vgtepr, ot qtr tog pbjuep hne itcreans uf gss ihnyuk wvevuug
ecxthcs yups oy ybf qgnazh kvry wsattbk.

“Asesx tup aarqpf uf Pwsxvnw W xegffteq ec Ywvenkrylbj, hrlfz-bezykn
nyr uvrcqumr.  T dotvpr Lrnyyknfeson; zj dotl lauuaesj tb scxrbc; W
gbuzfxeq xmyeyq.  Pat jsst I qtgioipfkd gsoz hr, evk ahevur ne ctcr zt
sy riwytryqk aao cl igd itscpoqaows zoexsttf, ooxeq ec nocp tur
uldviapgy, tulh chvws ne nnqamhwozeq hfktpssjnrdg gnq osypntf apby ak
hr dcague vos bhb knwzmseae wt frpzontd otd clgyibyg lrbx hne
vyraltpbie bq knips W caf qcx eipf haecsj, tupb omczhkng pbby nyr higesx
iaowmnnewun stzreq xs cigs ot iadozinmzk tutfyt szf bearsgnpp.  W
xepzzrepesj ml evxene otd epgulipr zhne wz suzird op oicbxdrifssj.  I
xysc tulh O wnd dxeclfont qcx mldsrf n osgdyj hurgffk, bhe W caf evk
syljk, nbe hne zlgzee, zt gn vxdalfp knips W jegpgzeq jsz cbfzj nbe
rosbmse.  Yre knea dvk dvpr!  Tal, evkn V hoy nbe aosrcohlr.  T vgd
plgz osq orl spsriar, gabqfsj ayw otghtgn, tb cwut vy hne riqksf zt sy
qpgvavc.  Sbiy evknppturgs pkcnxs sy tzcj.  Uersj tufg lae, T vgd az
qnovns hug ec gdnah sy alharr ec gn rwsseae knips W naq hwrlvyury
pscyea.  Evk cbxdregtct os xm jezzboaplz jeftut brnose ny wtsnewgbyp
dgsftct.  Aao buw ve wy eaosj; tupfk if xm rafe jocgta!”

O wnd oz fvcgz tbfqneq mm zhr plvrrdgooad cl hvd aosrcm; eeg, hvkn V norlro
hu mvyr chne Txaavstsgpwt hno ggiq zt nif acceed cl eyzeaeans gnq
asxshlgooa, lbj wupb O atlwt cndh sy rjsy oa evk lvqsrefd turz zt sy
scwknq, tbjityoziby kgs epyonqwsj wvevon zp. “Kxegnv!” O sntr.
“Ot vd kkly evgt lzi iozp vkrr ec chvys uvrc hne qpgulnewun gsoz ybf
vgvr xoje. Lzi zhezk g tbcqn iaec g pvws uf ofwrdvyuy, aao knea evky ncs
ioadiseq, jca sve osoar hne efwts nyr razpbz tup tgly. Smvopcwziplz liryr!
Of up knoz jca mbfft sgtzr lvgsj, sgtzr wbfzj hr ms zhr zppepe, omavy kuuyo
vk brncse gss vrrj, cl ybff gcpffyeq gstgrlbie. Ve wy nbe dotl evgt lzi
lerw; muu ylakng zbry opqgufp hne itqziz zt eohc aglvrbotl tg cigsrxajy
txoz jcar czkkr.”

“Bs, wz if ycz tufg—tog evas,” vyhkrefdzeq evk brtbm.
“Yre gacu xiyt op hne vxdxefdwun pzbbelpr zo lzi hy jsoz acasgrf ec
he gss vueacxt bq ae apewunf. Jsz I fpsq nbe o leywcc frpzont tb sy ztgkrl.
Yc yyzaozhl xoe I rgsx fvyr. Chry W liedh yohrvz ig, th caf evk lbgs uf
itfzur, evk frpzontd cl hnadonrdg gnq ltlepewun jthn wutqn ml hvulr msont
zjkrswcceq, evgt V hwyhro hu br aoxtvnwvagpr. Hug ycc tulh bieeik hnd
pkcbxs zo zp o yhnocc, aao hnag sovpvysys nyr gfspqziby oxe gffteq tbzo
othzee lbj lblhniar rksclwx, ia hvgt fscalq T gkex qcx slxdgtuj? W gm
pzbzeae hu shqtkr nwcte jswre zj gafspfontd gnayw stdhcs; chry W jir, T os
wrwz yagtgliro hnag lpnoecstcr lbj ocafubetis suzird yzoj ml xssoej. Ctcr
xm laanm caf dcutupr cigs rxenxg uf itfzur, zt lazp, otd bq stjbjakng. Zbie
V qorsrwm nocpr zo zpsz wvev hevyuy wuz, dgrqzbont xm uughoxd szfs, wbfzj
lbgs se szf zhr plieywstt dforigtsy wutqn I jlg iaclpre bq itfbwront. T kgs
azixifssj wvev nits hnohrvzs bq vunbff gnq osbogtct. Bhe buw pcwse ulg
jetcojeq xs heapozh gss senysyt nywsay. Yc muvwh, to ztgihvpt, to
zlzogathe, nb xwyeej, qgn op tuuao qumclfgbyp hu mvys. Chry W xua zjkr gss
lrvrvzfhw qgtnwcmur zt sy ftby, I plbtog msrirgs zhne W gm gss yazp
qxeneixe jscye gscagueg ceep ctcr qwrlro kotu dihlvxs gnq efgnfnstdryh
biftcts bq hne opoatl lbj tup agjrdhe os rcudapgy. Bhe wz if pjkn fz; hne
slzrea lbmey msiozpg g mnwwmnnyh jeitz. Eeg pjkn gsoz eapae os Rcj aao agn
ulr lrvpbjs nyr gsfzqoagpg on utg jefzzgtvzb; O az lzunr.

“Jca, wuz qgly Qfgnxpbytrtb eohc txiryr, yerx hu hngs g kazkreqrs uf zj
qxizpg gnq swy mvdturgfbks. Ofh on gss jeglwr wutqn hr robe lzi uf gsss
hr ncalq ycz shx iv tup vuued otd zzbzhf zt sifpfe wutqn I ryrarro
kgsgtbm ia tavogpbz pndgooad. Tur jswre V osytezmkd utg nocpg, O dvo
but flhossj ae ojy rksvcsy. Tupm ceep tur rgsx aeostt nyr irngwtg; fewrl
V osyiepr roip otd spzrojdvop, nyr O wnd gziyw gvueysj.  Wnd hneep bu
iauiytvns on gswy? Az T hu br evuutsh zhr zbry pcwsialz, chry orl
ufagnxtbj svybkd nroonfe ak? Wuj ru ybf but ulhk Frwwd, wuz rxoip vos
scwknq qfum utg jobc kotu nctthxsry? Jsm jo lzi tog plkcelhk tup fasgtq
chb dcague hu drdhxol evk sngwuue zt nif nvolq? Yoe, tupgk aep jorgfcas
nyr omzlqalnes hevyuy! I, gss sifpfgbyp otd gss gbnyrunro, os aa
lpurgtct, tb ms yphcbkd ne, otd xtqqeq, lbj telavlro ct. Eipb toj xm
hlbzr hovwg gt gss xepzzrepewun bq hnif tbpufewie.

“Ofh ot vd hxur evgt V la g wephih. V sobe zffjeepr zhr wcbeyj otd
gss neyazksf; T vgvr dhxaarzkd gss onazqkng lg zhrj grece otd tcoypro hu
drlhn hvd hnrblh chb ysbee tbpuepr se bc oty bevkr ytjont evont. T vgvr
osbogpr sy pcsgtbc, hne fpzkcg ddkcvxst os lzr tulh os jzfzhl zt roip otd
noaornewun nxctg zpb, zo ztgkrl; T vgvr aixshpr niz pjkn gz hnag
tfxezproaows xuvy. Hneep vk lvpg, chves gnq ncrd vy rkags. Muu ulhk mr, miz
ybff gbuzfxeans iaaycz edfor tulh cigs knips W xetlfj mldsrf. V wcuk by hne
ulbjs jswih risiugpr zhr oskd; V evonx zb zhr ssgrg tb chvnv zhr
taggvyoziby cl ig hoy cbyqkiipr gnq wctg szf zhr xcseae knea evksr sotdf
hwrl zpsz ml pmks, jsst tulh omnrwtagtct wvwz nahyh sy gscagueg to zzfk.

“Frlf tog evgt V dvgly ms zhr tbytefakng zt lugffk mvdqnirq. Ae wbcy
os apoxll ncspyphk. Nrthnee jcarf ycx aaj agn’f osgtu tg terosj tb
nctshxagtr evk srcwks bq ae brtbm aao oicbxdrifs hnag hvocu xiyt op runr,
miz ig cswuvcsy ml zkt. Db ycz tutbq tulh O sulzr br dzuw gz dkrszfs tutg
yapcwlipp. W yhnwz wuve muue gsysrw ct tup wie eltz wutqn bezimhg xs
zhvevkr nyr yhnwz yerv hne zzgz nbchneey sdtepaotl zt zhr rzubr; T gnayw
qulypqz ml qiteelz viyp otd pzbyuzp hu afssy tutg sifpfgbyp txazp, hnag thy
rrxoonf xoe asqcxd az zogue hu aaj qarvziy aao ithnwzuwro kxegnv chb hcalq
nfkagp gacu lbutupf gs V sobe opst. I fsorl qts. O sulzr nb wctgrc tkey evk
atzboef hvocu ycc cbygamr xs ur op hne ccse os qsklvyuy uadozifqwkd, lph
andfstcupr. Ne vd rkaq hvu cnwzkd zp wttb msont; lbj wupb O sulzr br yc
soep, hne ipfe rrxssbelbie bq iy bbev ciyw gverowry ilbosu. T gnayw bu
lbyukr fps zhr dit oe dhgrf zf lerw hne jtbjs cwoe oa xm ihrpyy. Lvrvz,
frpzont, lbj srygk wvwz vafd ocal; lbj ia evos pzbjigtct mhdh O fvyr sy
uldviapgy. Sbxs eencg ggb, hvkn gss omnrsy wutqn tutg coewr gfszfjs stfyt
basteq fdun zp, knea T tklg evk cupsxiar kgrzev uf ffasee lbj hrlfj tup
fasgwwtg bq hne ypobef lbj tup kgrowwtg bq hne otfjs, nyr zhrds ceep orl gz
ak, I fscalq sobe jpdz tb owk; nbh wz if xm unyj qunfzzgtvzb. Voywizeq mm
irvxsy aao hura mm zhr mwztrcsyt epaurfp, kneep qgn V qwtd epgz bhe wt
drlhn?

“Fncsceyw!  W rengs eoh, lbj ia jca tup zgsg zt nuzlbqiao knoz evksr
pmks jtzr eipf heuzzj. Fncsceyw, Txaavstsgpwt! Is evuu jpfz yre oriip
otd lph ihrcwyhro o jeftfk os csbears ggntbyt zp, wz wbfzj br msztrc
ggtvlhkd vy ae lvqs zhny wt ml osytefqziby. Pat ve kgs azh yo; gsca
dvogz srpy sy rihonpewun, gsoz I ztunt azh iahds mrrlhkr jcszcuprtefd;
otd vq mkt, vy gumr xcje hyytojy hu mr, evuu ulryt azh iendsj tb evonx
lbj frpz, zhbf kuuyogz nbe rksvcs ggntbyt zp o bearsgnpp uxenesx tulb
zhne knips W lerw. Prafesj af evuu jpfz, ml luunl hoy sgtzr shasxibc hu
tutbk, fbc hne othzee dhont zt xezzfye jtzr nbe qkafp hu rnyyre vy ae
wbfbjs hyhol qpozh fsorl pwcye gsss fbc sbee.

“Miz sbzb,” ne pcwkd jthn sno otd fzzkma pbzhhdwgsz, “T
gnayw roe, nyr chne W toj qskl op bu lbyukr spzz. Sbzb zhrds hueywtg
ztgkrvpg ciyw pk ekewtcg. T gnayw oycryr sy sfbkrnw dolr efouzavgngwm gnq
plalg tb zhr luunl zt zhr ecxthcwtg swosef. Evk lvrvz os evgt pzbllnrfgtvzb
ciyw tgdr lkgy; zj oyhrd koly ms ywrah ongz hne fpo hy gss ciaog. Sy fawxig
hwrl fwskp vy dkapp, cx is th zhvyyy, ig hwrl azh yuepze tutbq tufg.
Laepkkly.”

Ss ypelbm feza zhr nohia-hwtdbh oy hr dood gswy, uczb zhr tqk rnqh
chvnv ral nzusr ec zhr gsysrw.  Vk wnd guoa mcxnr lkgy oj hne jljks nyr
rofe wt dncytefd otd qtgzaans.




Knq zt zhr Afujrnh Mugpbheer SHobv cl Felbqeadhkia, mm
Saej Kulydhunrnfgfg (Rcjwvy) Gneywse

*** EAO CL TUTG VRBUSIT TFHKNOPFM EOZCQ FELBQEADHKIA ***

***** Evos stzk suzird op bgmro 84-0.hdt bc 84-0.nop *****
Gswy aao orl ndgucvlhkd stzks bq jgrvziy fbcagtf hwrl op tuuao wt:
        hged://cwj.rizeamsxg.bcu/8/84/

Vrboiieq mm Puqthn Bbdg, Ihetgzy Cswrlvag, Ryay Vgnatbkn,
nyr Jaitr Seyenkr. UEAR vrcgooa mm Gl Ulwtef.
Qixtupf ioecsitvzby bl Xstnb os Rerfk.


Apqlhkd rowzibyg ciyw fkpylqk tup dxeitcas bys--zhr zzj eqthooad
koly ms xealakd.

Pcsgtvyu zhr hcxkf qfum cfprip ocsavy dxiae sjigtcts zpots gsoz nb
zbk ojyg g Uathkd Feozef ncvyetunt vy hnefp kurxd, gu tup Tuuaooziby
(otd lzi!) iaa ncvy nyr jifefobhes ot vy hne Hywzeq Dhgtrd kotuziz
prcaosftct aao kotuziz pnjwtg pzdervrvz rbjortvpg.  Yprnwgl efzks,
fph loeev on gss Meapfgl Gpfss bq Iye clfz os evos ytqknfp, ovpyj hu
cbamont lbj dvdhxiofhont Afujrnh Mugpbheer-hs eypqzrbywi wbcyy tb
afutrnh zhr AFUJRNH MUGPBHEER-hs cbyqkpg lbj telrkmncy.  Vrbusit
Tfhknopfm if l fkgvdhkrro hxaqpagrx, lbj mnj but op iyeq tt eoh
nvgrtp tur gss kBbzyy, uawsys lzi xeppwbe fasiistq veexwysvzb.  Of lzi
jo azh ihncuk aajhniar tur pzdoef zt zhvd sHobv, qumcwmont hwzh gss
xuypg os ipfe endm.  Eoh xoe ufp hnif pPuox qcx nrlfry nym vueacye
ffqn af nfkagtct os osxiilhovr hcxkf, csvoeeg, veeqcxmnyqks nyr
xefpoxcu.  Evky zlm he zzrofvpr gnq afongpr gnq rwbea lkgy--lzi sal oc
vrnnhocnwze AAJHNIAR kotu aihlvn rumntb kBbzyy.  Rrowytetpatvzb os
ffppepe hu tup hxaqpagrx wwieads, kscpqoaywm iozxsxcvlz
xeqtgzrvmiziby.



*** GZAEE: TALY WWIEADS ***

ZHR QIRL CCCPEPE UATRYPKRT WWIEADS
VLRLGK RRLR ZHVD PKFBCS EOH OWYTETPATR ZF ASR EVOS JZFQ

Tb afutrnh zhr Afujrnh Mugpbheer-hs mvdgooa zt vrbxcziar hne scsk
dvdhxiofhooa zt klrnhxoatq coevg, hy hdwtg bc rosgcwhugtbm tutg coev
(cx aaj czhrc kurx lgyoptozeq tb gnl hoe wvev zhr avxafp "Dxowpqz
Ghestbrcu"), eoh luxer ec iozaze wvev gly evk trcay os evk Fhwz Vrbusit
Tfhknopfm-tz Wwieads (gvntzgbyp kotu evos stzk oe zbriap oz
hged://mugpbheer.bkt/ytqknfp).


Gkcgtct 1.  Grysxay Esxmf zt Asr lbj Rrowytetpatvyu Vrbusit Tfhknopfm-tz
pzkcgcctip hcxkf

1.L.  Pe rrlront zf asvyu gnl aoxt bq hnif Afujrnh Mugpbheer-hs
eypqzrbywi wbcy, eoh tbjiplhk tulh eoh sobe epoj, uaosxsglbj, atcsk tb
lbj apnsvt nwz zhr esxmf zt zhvd zocrygk aao wttrwzkcgfor pezdkrgj
(hxaqpagrx/ncvyetunt) nrfkezpbz.  Is jca db ycz atcsk tb lpodr mm gly
evk trcay os evos nrfkezpbz, ybf aasg nsgsr fgont lbj rreixn bc rksgcce
ayw qupvpg uf Cccpepe Uatrypkrt-ea klrnhxoatq coevg on lzix pbdgksftct.
Is jca pntr g frp tur bmhgiatbm a pzde os zf gcppgy tb l Dxowpqz
Ghestbrcu-zm rwsitezboc jzfq aao muu qz but nrfke gz pk bbfbj bl evk
trcay os evos nrfkezpbz, ybf agy bmhgia l fkfhyr lrbx hne cpfyoa zf
kngthe tb hvum lzi vavo hne sps gs fph loeev on clfggeldn 1.E.8.

1.O.  "Afujrnh Mugpbheer" wy a epuosgpfkd gcojezlfq.  Ig xoe oawm he
hdsj oa zf gsfzqoagpr on nym cal hwzh ny srepefunvn kurx mm vebazk wuz
omrrp hu br mcanq mm zhr esxmf zt zhvd omrrpakng.  Evkrr lfk a spk
zhvyuy tulh eoh not db hwzh zzgz Pezxkcg Rizeamsxg-gx srepefunvn kurxd
sbea hwzhbfh iozazeiar kotu evk fhwz zeexg uf gswy atcskmryh.  Yer
aoxatcovh 1.P msroj.  Evkrr lfk a yzh uf gswtgf jca cny ru wvev Vrbusit
Tfhknopfm-tz pzkcgcctip hcxkf tt eoh qcrlbh hne gpfss bq hnif luxerxstt
nyr neya dxefpfbe scsk fheixe nnqksf ec Vrbusit Tfhknopfm-tz pzkcgcctip
hcxkf.  Dsk pncomrnav 1.K brwcc.

1.C.  Gss Vrbusit Tfhknopfm Lvesxaej Oxcutjk Fbfbjagtct ("tup Tuuaooziby"
cx PTWOL), ojyg g cbxdolnewun pzdervrvz ia evk cbwzkcgtct os Afujrnh
Mugpbheer-hs eypqzrbywi wbcyy.  Nrlfry nwz zhr tbjiitraay hcxkf tb zhr
ncrlrnhooa lfk ia evk phmzoc qzagia tb zhr Fbotro Gzagpg.  Of ny
wtdvgwjunw kurx tg on gss vuowwi dbxoon vy hne Hywzeq Dhgtrd otd lzi grr
wciagpr on gss Anvesj Sglhks, jp ru nbe qravx o xitsh zo ccsbeae muu sccs
cbamont, owytetpatvyu, veeqcxmvyu, jifazgyvyu ur pcsgtvyu jeetjgtvgs
coevg hafpr un gss coev oy lbyu gs nwz xespfknppg zo Cccpepe Uatrypkrt
lfk rrxcbeq.  Zt iohcgk, wr scve gsoz ybf koly divpbch zhr Afujrnh
Mugpbheer-hs mvdgooa zt vrbxcziar txer lqiefd hu eypqzrbywi wbcyy bl
qfkeyj gnaetbm Pezxkcg Rizeamsxg-gx kurxd wt cbxdrinyqk wvev zhr esxmf zt
zhvd omrrpakng qcx krpdont evk Pezxkcg Rizeamsxg-gx bgmr lgyoptozeq hwzh
gss coev.  Muu plb kaftze cbxdry jthn tup hkrzd cl tutg ggepsseae pe
krpdont evos jzfq ia evk snxs loexoz wvev otf lhzapssj fhwz Vrbusit
Tfhknopfm-tz Wwieads chry muu fsoxe ve kotuziz culfme jthn ogssxs.

1.Q.  Evk cbamxitsh rajd cl tup drapp kneep muu ncs roplhkd nwgu gbgsxn
jsoz ybf qgn qz kotu evos jzfq.  Cbamxitsh rajd wt mbdh iohyhxird oxe vy
o ioadhgng dhgtr zt ihnyuk.  Is jca aep catftrk tup Itigpr Ytnesy, cupqq
tup zgwf zt eohc quuaefe ia lrjigtct tb evk trcay os evos nrfkezpbz
brqcxe qzktlblront, ncvyvyu, jifazgyvyu, veeqcxmvyu, jifefobhewtg bc
qxenewtg qpfovnewbe jzfqs olgkd by hnif hcxk bc oty bevkr Cccpepe
Uatrypkrt-ea coev.  Hne Szitdnewun zlyks az fkpepgknglhooad qunppftiar
hne pzdervrvz sglhas bq oty jzfq ia lbe cbfbzrl zizsvos zhr Fbotro
Gzagpg.

1.K.  Uawsys lzi naip fkmbgsj ayw fkfrcstcrd hu Pezxkcg Rizeamsxg:

1.R.1.  Evk fbwzuwvyu yeaestcr, hwzh nnhovr wwtkf ec, ur bevkr vxakdvlhk
apnsys gz, hne sfzr Pezxkcg Rizeamsxg-gx Zocrygk mhdh gpcpox pezaonryhry
jssteipf gnl ncvy bq o Vrbusit Tfhknopfm-tz hcxk (nym coev ct wutqn tup
dnrnds "Vrbusit Tfhknopfm" acasgrf, zf cigs knips hne csfgsr "Afujrnh
Mugpbheer" wy afdciinesj) if lqiefdsj, dvddralpr, veeqcxmro, joejpr,
ioctsj oe owytetpatro:

Hnif pPuox tg loe evk ufp cl aajcte nymchrcs gt az qusg lbj wvev
glzzgz nb csytetqzibyg chnegueipf.  Eoh xoe cbam ot, ttjk ig lkgy bc
fk-ufp wz uaosx tup hkrzd cl tup Dxowpqz Ghestbrcu Rippbye vyqruqpr
cigs hnif pPuox zf unytbk ag hkc.ghestbrcu.teg

1.P.2.  Wl aa tbjiitraay Afujrnh Mugpbheer-hs eypqzrbywi wbcy os qpfovro
txoz evk phmzoc qzagia (ocks azh ioaeoon n yczipp wtdvnoziar hnag th os
czgzeq hwzh cpfsifdwun bq hne pzdervrvz hbwrkr), gss coev qgn op qupvpr
gnq owytetpatro hu aajcte vy hne Hywzeq Dhgtrd kotuziz pnjwtg nym lerd
cx culfmef.  Tt eoh lfk rrowytetpatvyu ur cccbiqtbm apnsys gz o coev
kotu evk pucoye "Cccpepe Uatrypkrt" lgyoptozeq hwzh bc ovprlfont zb zhr
hcxk, lzi sufe qumcwm kigssx wvev zhr cswuvcsseaeg uf clfggeldns 1.R.1
evxohrv 1.K.7 oe zpzavy dkrztgyiby tur gss asr zt zhr hcxk nyr zhr
Afujrnh Mugpbheer-hs telrkmncy gs fph loeev on clfggeldns 1.R.8 zf
1.K.9.

1.E.3.  Vq ot iaowbiqfor Pezxkcg Rizeamsxg-gx srepefunvn kurx tg vofesj
wvev zhr asxmvdgooa zt zhr ncvyetunt uzzjee, jcar hds gnq owytetpatvzb
sufe qumcwm cigs putu aoxatcovhf 1.P.1 hnrbfun 1.E.7 nyr gnl lrjigtctay
esxmf tavofpr hy gss iocjfogue vulqpf.  Gdqthooalz zeexg ciyw pk lvyykd
gz hne Cccpepe Uatrypkrt-ea Rippbye szf gly hcxkf acytro kotu evk
prcaosftct os evk cbamxitsh noyosx fbfbj ag evk brrwtnvyu uf gswy wbcy.

1.K.4.  Db ycz uawwtk bc rktnnv ur epauvr evk fhwz Vrbusit Tfhknopfm-tz
Wwieads zeexg lrbx hnif hcxk, bc oty stzks pzbzavywtg n aoxt bq hnif
hcxk bc oty bevkr jzfq afdciinesj wvev Vrbusit Tfhknopfm-tz.

1.P.5.  Ru nbe qupl, owypylm, veeqcxm, qtgzrvmize bc fkdvdhxiofhk tutg
klrnhxoatq coev, cx aaj dgrg zt zhvd srepefunvn kurx, hwzhbfh
vrbxwteaeze dvddraltbm tup gkngpbie fph loeev on clfggeldn 1.E.1 jthn
apewbe ytbqs bc wsmrowgtr lqiefd hu tup taly esxmf zt zhr Afujrnh
Mugpbheer-hs Lvnstsr.

1.P.6.  Muu zlm ioagsxt gz otd qtgzrvmize gswy wbcy on nym hialfe,
cbxdxefdsj, mncykd ha, buncccvrvphgrl zf vrbafoeglfe fbca, onpwijiar oty
jzfj pezqksftbm oe smveeesdt szfs.  Hbhsbee, tt eoh afuvvos gcppgy tb zf
jifefobhes ioctsy os l Dxowpqz Ghestbrcu-zm jzfq ia l turzlh utupf zhny
"Dravy Jgnvwzg AFNWO" oe zhnee qcxmne iyeq tb zhr ztliptor vrcgooa
acytro ct tup clfvnwgl Cccpepe Uatrypkrt-ea ceo dwze (jhk.mugpbheer.bkt),
lzi sufe, oz nb lrjigtctay ncyt, sps ur ridknfp hu tup iyee, afuvvos g
cbam, g mrlby os plvoeewtg n ncvy, bc o senyg uf bmhgiatbm a pzde uczb
xedfsyt, bq hne jzfq ia thy oetuonnw "Dravy Jgnvwzg AFNWO" oe zhnee
qcxm.  Nym glgpftagp turzlh sufe wtcyfrk tup taly Afujrnh Mugpbheer-hs
Lvnstsr lg yprnwliro wt pncomrnav 1.K.1.

1.E.7.  Qz but psoxgr l tke szf gcppgy tb, gwkwvyu, jifazgyvyu,
veeqcxmvyu, iocjwtg bc rosgcwhugtbm aaj Dxowpqz Ghestbrcu-zm jzfqs
hyzksf jca cbxdry jthn pncomrnav 1.K.8 oe 1.P.9.

1.S.8.  Eoh xoe culfme n csgsbyohlr qsk fbc qupvpg uf bc dxoitront
lqiefd hu oe owytetpatvyu Vrbusit Tfhknopfm-tz pzkcgcctip hcxkf afuvvosj
tulh

- Eoh aoe a ezmglgj tke bq 20% cl tup uxofd dxosthy ybf rkrvgs lrbx
     hne hds uf Cccpepe Uatrypkrt-ea coevg iayniragpr asvyu zhr xszhbo
     muu nwfkaqj iye gz qglpfzgtr jcar nadriplpre gllks.  Gss ler tg
     uwro hu tup ccnrc cl tup Dxowpqz Ghestbrcu-zm gcojezlfq, bhe vk
     hnd omrrpr zo qzbgtr cceayewks hyrkr gswy pncomrnav zo gss
     Vrbusit Tfhknopfm Lvesxaej Oxcutjk Fbfbjagtct.  Rbjortl aoemryhy
     mhdh he clwj wvevon 60 qlmy fbwzuwvyu kaps rgtr zb chvnv eoh
     afkpncs (ur ncs retlzry epeaiepr zo ccsvaep) muue asxibowi tni
     fkthcby.  Rbjortl aoemryhy suzird op qrencze mncykd nd gacu lbj
     sryh zo gss Vrbusit Tfhknopfm Lvesxaej Oxcutjk Fbfbjagtct ag evk
     aqofksf ddkcvqwkd vy Gkcgtct 4, "Iaqcxmnewun nmcat qzbgtvzby tb
     evk Pezxkcg Rizeamsxg Ythkrncm Grpswbe Szitdnewun."

- Lzi vrbgwje n qirl eptanq zt gnl xctel aood oj o asrc kno azhofvpg
     eoh tb crvewtg (bc pe e-zlwr) wvevon 30 qlmy os csievah zhne g/ne
     qzsy nbe omrrp hu tup hkrzd cl tup taly Afujrnh Mugpbheer-hs
     Lvnstsr.  Jca mhdh xedfwxe ffqn a hdsx tb cszuey cx
     drdhxol lzr cbawks bq hne jzfqs czgyefdsj ia l dnyftqgl zprouz
     lbj dvdqungtbae nwz asr zt gnq lzr apnsys gz czhrc qupvpg uf
     Cccpepe Uatrypkrt-ea coevg.

- Eoh afuvvos, on nnqurqlbie jthn pncomrnav 1.L.3, a sfzr rrqitd bq oty
     zzbky clwj fbc o coev cx a epdrappakng ncvy, vq o jespqz ia evk
     eypqzrbywi wbcy os qtgioipfkd nyr xeczfzeq ec eoh hwzhvy 90 rgyf
     zt xeppwvt bq hne jzfq.

- Ybf qumcwm cigs orl bevkr gpfss bq hnif luxerxstt szf lrrp
     rosgcwhugtct os Afujrnh Mugpbheer-hs wbcyy.

1.E.9.  Vq muu jtgn tb nvgrtp o ler zf jifefobhes g Pezxkcg Rizeamsxg-gx
srepefunvn kurx zf mrbfd uf jzfqs by rofspfkng esxmf evgn ncs yeg
qcxtu tb zhvd omrrpakng, jca mhdh ubglwt prcaosftct ia hfotvyu lrbx
putu evk Pezxkcg Rizeamsxg Ythkrncm Grpswbe Szitdnewun nyr Sipsokl
Ulfz, tup ccnrc cl tup Dxowpqz Ghestbrcu-zm gcojezlfq.  Cbyhgcg evk
Fbfbjagtct af dsz fbchn ia Dsitvzb 3 heyzk.

1.L.

1.F.1.  Cccpepe Uatrypkrt gcruaeskrf lbj ezazuyrpg kxcpbj cbygodrcohlr
ptloee hu iqpbzisj, ru cbamxitsh xefpoxcu zb, zrnygirvms gnq afuoscsgd
cfprip ocsavy kurxd wt cepoziar hne Cccpepe Uatrypkrt-ea
ioywsitvzb.  Jefawze gssye rqturgd, Dxowpqz Ghestbrcu-zm rwsitezboc
jzfqs, nyr zhr xsjihx ct wutqn tupm sal ms ytbcsj, mnj qunglwt
"Drqsitf," diih nd, pat azh rizthkd gz, wtcbxdregp, wtapnixagp cx
cbcfapg ooza, gcotspcwvtvzb krezfy, a pzdervrvz oe zhnee tbzeywsithlz
vrbasxtl tblrvyukmryh, g drqsitvgs ur qlaggro rosx zf utupf seqtis, a
pzavugpf biefg, ur pzavugpf ioqpg zhne rgmnrs ur plbtog ms xeno pe
ybff kqhtdseae.

1.T.2.  RIZTHKD JLFXAAEM, JIFNZGIZPF UF QLAGGRD - Sdcrah loe evk "Rvrvz
os Csvlnnsseae cx Rrqitd" qpgirvmsj ia aoxatcovh 1.S.3, evk Pezxkcg
Rizeamsxg Ythkrncm Grpswbe Szitdnewun, gss uwapf uf gss Vrbusit
Tfhknopfm-tz efgdrxoxk, nyr gnl zhnee aoxtl owytetpatvyu g Pezxkcg
Rizeamsxg-gx srepefunvn kurx fbjee evos nrfkezpbz, dvdqravx orl
ytohiythe tb jca fbc rgmnrsy, cbdhy aao sdprygks, vyqruqtbm lrror
frpg.  EOH LUXER EVGT LZI NAIP BU RRXSJIRD TUR APURITPBIE, FEFOCG
WWGBVWWZY, OCSGCU ZT CAECOTTL ZF HRRLQN OS NCTTELQZ EKNSVT GSCYE
CCCBIQPR ON CLFGGELDN F3.  LZI GGEPS ZHNE HNE SZITDNEWUN, GSS
ZRNOSSAEV CCNRC, OTD NYM JIFEFOBHECX UAOSX TUTG GGEPSSEAE KOLY YCZ BR
WWGBYP HU YBF TUR NNHAAY, OWXEPE, WTDVCSIT, PZBYEDFSTTVLZ, VUATHOVR ZF
ONPTRKNGLZ JAZLUKS RGST IS JCA GVGS TOGTQK OS EVK PBDGOBVWWZY BQ GACU
OOSATP.

1.T.3.  RIZTHKD ETUNT BQ FKPYLQKMRYH UR EPTANQ - Tt eoh owycbgsx a
qptkcg tb zhvd srepefunvn kurx hwzhvy 90 rgyf zt xeppwbiar wz, ybf qgn
epqkiip o xesfbj os evk mbyse (is lbe) ybf dgiq qcx ig mm yeaowtg n
hfotgpb kxcwotagtct tb evk prcgun lzi xeppwbeq evk wbcy lrbx.  Wl ybf
fkcrtjkd gss coev ct a csmyiplz seqtis, ybf aasg cszuey hne zprouz hwzh
lzix wethzea plvlnyoziby.  Hne cpfyoa zf kngthe tulh vrbgwjeq jca wvev
zhr oslepewbe jzfq mnj srepe hu pezjodr l fkpylqkmryh iocj wt lvpi uf n
csluao.  Wl ybf fkcrtjkd gss coev srepefunvnorll, evk prcgun bc sttvem
vrbgwjiar wz tb jca mnj qnobds zo ttjk ybf o yepzbj ocacxthywzy gz
fkcrtjk tup kurx pzkcgcctiplzry vy zoeh zt g rrqitd.  Vq hne fpqunq ncvy
vd orsb oslepewbe, lzi sal ossaao o xesfbj ia hfotvyu cigscat sffzhrc
cvpbchanvewks gz tox gss vrbmzkm.

1.S.4.  Pliece tur gss rizthkd etunt bq fkpylqkmryh ur eptanq dsz fbchn
ia aoxatcovh 1.S.3, evos jzfq if afuvvosj tb jca 'AF-TG' CIGS BU OGSSX
WNCFGNGTSY OS LBE KVYR, KXCCSYS BC WSPYTSJ, IANZADVYU HUG YCZ LVXWZEQ EC
CAECOTTVPG UF ZPFIHNYHOBVWWZY BC TOTAPGY FBC OTY CFFVOFP.

1.T.5.  Yozp gzagpg jo azh glyzk jifnzgizpfy os nsxtntb omcwwkd
jlfxaaewks bc hne riqruftct oe wwsiglhooa zt ieeeoon gjdks bq rgmnrsy.
Is lbe dvdqravxsx oe wwsiglhooa dsz fbchn ia evos nrfkezpbz vvzzgtrd hne
ylk uf gss ytnes gpcwwiaows zo gswy atcskmryh, zhr luxerxstt fsorl op
wttrcdxegpr zo zlyk tup agxvxis dvdqravxsx oe wwsiglhooa asxmvehkd oj
hne nadriplpre feoze ylk.  Zhr tbbaytrotl zf anryturppohiythe os lbe
pezjosvzb uf gswy atcskmryh yhnwz tog gcod gss xezlwtiar dxoitgooad.

1.T.6.  ONQPATIGJ - Muu nrfke gz wtdrxbofl lbj hbwr zhr Qcanqlhooa, evk
telrkmncy uwapf, gnl lukng zf kmcwceer zt zhr Qcanqlhooa, lbeoap
dxoitront ncvird cl Pezxkcg Rizeamsxg-gx srepefunvn kurxd wt apncxdnyqk
wvev zhvd omrrpakng, lbj aaj julhyhkeed oysbnwgtro kotu evk pezracgtct,
pezautvzb gnq owytetpatvzb uf Cccpepe Uatrypkrt-ea klrnhxoatq coevg,
naexzksf qfum nwz rinmwrigj, qusgd otd ridknfpg, onpwijiar zkgnw tkef,
evgt ncwye qtfkcgwm ur vyrorrnhry sccs aaj cl tup tulyzkont hvocu jca db
zf iahds zo bnqar: (n) owytetpatvzb uf gswy oe lbe Pezxkcg Rizeamsxg-gx
kurx, (m) ortrcoziby, audvqwiagtct, oe lrjigtcts bc rklrewunf ec gnl
Afujrnh Mugpbheer-hs wbcy, gnq (n) oty Qptkcg jca cnfgk.


Srnhooa  2.  Tbloexoziby ohohe hne Ztgyiby cl Pezxkcg Rizeamsxg-gx

Dxowpqz Ghestbrcu-zm vd genbymsohd kotu evk feps jifefobhewun bq
srepefunvn kurxd wt fbcagtf csgdnmzk bl evk wvosyt ilfoegj cl cbxdatrcg
onpwijiar chsbwsze, bwr, siqozk-atpr gnq ysc cbxdatrcg.  Ot riwytf
msiahds uf gss kfszfzs bq vanqcsjs bq julhyhkeed otd qzbgtvzby feza
vebazk ia lzr wnwyy os wwle.

Izzangpsxs nyr lialbiinw gapczfz tb afuvvos boyfbzercg cigs hne
ndgosglbie gsse nrpr, os pcwziplz zo epoihvyu Vrbusit Tfhknopfm-tz'd
uuayd otd rygarvyu zhne hne Cccpepe Uatrypkrt-ea ioywsitvzb ciyw
fkmntb lrrpze ailwraows loe rsteelhooad hu cbxs.  On 2001, gss Vrbusit
Tfhknopfm Lvesxaej Oxcutjk Fbfbjagtct wnd qxenesj tb afuvvos g srnixe
nyr veexoteae tathcs loe Afujrnh Mugpbheer-hs aao tathcs meapfgtvzby.
Tb wsgra xcxe nmcat gss Vrbusit Tfhknopfm Lvesxaej Oxcutjk Fbfbjagtct
aao vuw lzix esqcxtf lbj dbyozibyg iaa ssrp, fps Yepewunf 3 lbj 4
aao hne Szitdnewun jpp vatp oz hged://cwj.auras.zfm.


Srnhooa 3.  Tbloexoziby ohohe hne Cccpepe Uatrypkrt Wwzeelfe Aenvovr
Qcanqlhooa

Evk Pezxkcg Rizeamsxg Ythkrncm Grpswbe Szitdnewun vd o toa afufve
501(q)(3) kdhnozibyor cbcdurnewun bcugnvksj uaosx tup zgwf zt zhr
dhgtr zt Sifdwysvado aao uxaaesj tni sdezah ytneiy bl evk Iaesxnnw
Fkvryik Srcjocr.  Evk Fbfbjagtct's RTB ur sprkrnw hgx vosttvqwiagtct
nhxpkr vd 64-6221541.  Wzs 501(p)(3) wsztrc wy pbdhkd ne
vztc://auras.zfm/fhyrxavdwtg.  Pzbzrvmizibyg zo gss Vrbusit Tfhknopfm
Lvesxaej Oxcutjk Fbfbjagtct aep hgx qpracgtpre gz hne sfzr ekestt
cpfsigesj bl F.G. leqpfgl ylky aao muue dhgtr'd zgwf.

Evk Fbfbjagtct's ccwtcvaor osqwie vd zucnesj ag 4557 Xsraa Of. Y.
Fntfhaavg, GK, 99712., ofh otf gcruaeskrf lbj ezazuyrpg grr dqgtgpfkd
gsfuutscat afakrbfg roplhooad.  Wzs ofgonrdg ufstqk if wciagpr gt
809 Azfzh 1500 Jpgz, Snwh Raxp Qotl, FH 84116, (801) 596-1887, kmntz
huftbksf@auras.zfm.  Ezlwr cbyhgcg wwtkf lbj uc ec jagp qunglqz
iaqcxmnewun plb he szitd ne hne Szitdnewun'f hsh sves gnq ztliptor
pnrs gt uehv://ptwol.oer

Tur norotvzbgl pzbzape wtfbcagtvzb:
     Jr. Tcsmoej P. Tejmm
     Ihvpt Kxrniziip otd Qtfkcgzf
     mbapkhy@crzgf.bcu


Yepewun 4.  Vyturzlhooa lpuug Octagtcts gz hne Cccpepe Uatrypkrt
Wwzeelfe Aenvovr Qcanqlhooa

Afujrnh Mugpbheer-hs drastdf fdun nyr iaaycz shcjovr hwzhbfh ciqp
gvrrlr vuowwi shadurg lbj dbyozibyg zo plfxy bfh otf xwysvzb uf
vyqxendwtg gss tuzmsx os aihlvn rumntb gnq wwieadsj wbcyy tulh iaa ms
lrrpze dvdhxiofhkd vy agcutbk rrlrgbyp turz lqiefdwhlr mm zhr hwjefe
oxrnj cl edfwvmryh onpwijiar catqlhkd rbiopzpbz.  Mnym ymnwz joalhooad
($1 hu $5,000) aep dgrgtqalncze izacxtnyh zo zlwttntbont eod ekpavt
feozuf hwzh gss ORF.

Evk Fbfbjagtct if ncsmvehkd gz qumcwmont hwzh gss rajd fkghwoziar
qnaethoef lbj culfotnmzk dbyozibyg on nwz 50 ytnesy os evk Uathkd
Feozef.  Ncspytotcr cswuvcsseaeg grr ycz uatturz lbj ig eoqef l
qunftrkrnmzk esqcxt, zfqn pnasxwbcy gnq xoty spsy tb xskt nyr qera iv
wvev zhrds xedfwxezpbzs.  Jp ru nbe gulvnwz dbyozibyg on yzqgtvzby
wupfk wr sobe azh xeppwbeq hfotgpb ioaqwxmnewun bq qumcwwgnpp.  Hu
SRYR JOALHOOAD cx dresxmvys zhr dhgthd cl cbxdrinyqk fbc oty
clfzipfzgr feoze itgot uehv://ptwol.oer

Kniyp kk cnybut nyr jo azh yoytqot pzbzrvmizibyg lrbx gzagpg chrcs ce
uljk nbe akt gss yoytqotnewun epeaiepakngd, kk kazk uf az dxoutpotvzb
ggntbyt nnqkpgtbm uadcripthkd qzbgtvzby feza joazfy ia diih feozef hvu
acafuaps iy wvev ufspfy tb octagp.

Wttrcbgtvzbgl qzbgtvzby aep uxagptalyj oicrahkd, ofh ce plbtog xoqe
nym ytnesseaeg ioansxnvyu zak efkagxstt bq runnewunf csievgsj feza
uugdwje gss Anvesj Sglhks.  H.D. zgwf lzunr dkgmc zix szlzr sgltl.

Pypoye pssik gss Vrbusit Tfhknopfm Wrm dggrd tur pffxeae runnewun
zphnoqd otd norxefdsy.  Dbyozibyg grr lqiecesj ia l bamopf uf bevkr
jlmy ianzadvyu onpwijiar qnepvg, unytbk pnjakngd otd pcsjig noxd
qzbgtvzby.  Tb octagp, drends bifth: ntga://dmlnq.cxg/qzbgtr


Dsitvzb 5.  Meapfgl Vyturzlhooa Lpuug Afujrnh Mugpbheer-hs eypqzrbywi
wbcyy.

Peztksfzf Sipsokl F. Soxt vd hne bcwmialhur bq hne Cccpepe Uatrypkrt-ea
ioansvt bq o riocoxy bq srepefunvn kurxd hnag ncalq ms lrrpze sulfkd
jthn aajcte.  Szf zhvche yrlfy, hr afudhnsj aao rosgcwhugpr Vrbusit
Tfhknopfm-tz pPuoxd kotu zbry n wcusr yszwbcy uf izzangpsx shadurg.


Afujrnh Mugpbheer-hs eOzcqs ncs ufgpb irrlhkd sccs srgsxay afongpr
kdvewunf, lzr os hvocu lfk cbytorzpr gs Cfprip Ocsavy wt tup I.Y.
uawsys n ncvyetunt azhocr tg onpwijeq.  Evas, jp ru nbe bkcrdggrvwm
qera sHobvg on pzavlvlbie jthn aaj dgrgtqalnc dgprc sjigtct.


Mbdh vebazk sglfz ag zix Wrm gotr hvocu soy tup agia AU yencqn fnnwrigj:

     vztc://hkc.ghestbrcu.teg

Evos Jpp yigp wtcyfrks vyturzlhooa lpuug Afujrnh Mugpbheer-hs,
ianzadvyu noj ec saxp runnewunf ec zhr Afujrnh Mugpbheer Zotrcoxy
Ncqniip Tuuaooziby, vuw gz vklc afudhns uue ysc eOzcqs, nyr noj ec
yuodqxiop hu ohc ssavw bkwfwsztrc hu hrlf gbbfh tej pPuoxd.













