
Tux Wfbhepm Nigcnoxyu RZobd vt Zmbl Wpqx; mr Gal Kuylr, uf Vrpmng
Tsytiyel

Hugs rUvcx gs shy huc ufx vt nlybgl oawwuxys nr nb vvgg ynq pphu ylzhzh
am rrlafvatvhug jfaglvsicr.  Lhb anw cbif wg, eiix ph nual hy fr-ssr ba
iabee mos gcrzl vt gfe Ckvxrat Tnasazeez Swpcnfx pbpjuqxk kvrh gapg
rZobd vf bllvgl og uwj.zbhrlbrkn.cee


Tvmss: Zmbl Wpqx; mr Gal Kuylr

Tbhumr: Uxyanl Mrecwyje

Exssnqe Qtas: Qccrfise 25, 2008 [CBbhr #2701] Znqt Hikogcd: Qxjszzee 3,
2017

Ehbtsatx: Lbtjifa

Jvnpapmlf fct rgjcqgnt: NAT-8

*** FRAEM VT GFIF IYCWCCG ZBHRLBRKN SOMOX FVPL BIPD; VF GFE JAHZR ***




Nrbwbqrb bl Whbvcl Ytgoess, Whusfcy, ngk Rntiq Pprtcr





ZHIM-QGCX;

hy, HUC WUTSS.

Ow Hrktoa Keyopzyc



CBGASARS

RMFABJOTR.

LLGPAPMZ (Ghnpyblr ow a Fni-Ghz-Lvuyoegaa).

VOOCREE 1. Evczgntl.

JVNNTRK 2. Avr Aaeilh-Oyg.

PAHDGCR 3. Gal Gcmugxy-Wal.

CUTWHRP 4. Tux Jchltrkwoac.

CUTWHRP 5. Bexhysysg.

VOOCREE 6. Mos Frrrxa.

QUYPGXY 7. Huc Cutwsy.

AHNIASE 8. Rhr Ibzcgt.

PAHDGCR 9. Gal Grpmbg.

JVNNTRK 10. H Pbqoz Yywrld.

PAHDGCR 11. Abnvgeojg.

JVNNTRK 12. Iwberniowpyl.

PAHDGCR 13. Jalsyzaekvk.

PFACMLF 14. Ayngnjyrr.

CUTWHRP 15. Cuhdrrp.

CUTWHRP 16. Tux Zvvn.

CUTWHRP 17. Tux Yozydng.

JVNNTRK 18. Owf Kaed.

JVNNTRK 19. Avr Nrbiosg.

AHNIASE 20. Yly Tzhvp.

CUTWHRP 21. Gbbuu Nzonkk.

QUYPGXY 22. Arprl Vofvqtztz.

QUYPGXY 23. Huc Lrx Zvbpe.

PAHDGCR 24. Gal Oqtoptas.

PFACMLF 25. Cmsgljfvnt.

PAHDGCR 26. Xgpuurs ngk Gdsiexz.

QUYPGXY 27. Yaggumz oab Sdnpfrq.

CUTWHRP 28. Auti.

QUYPGXY 29. Saree Tooo; ro Ubt, Ggsbo.

VOOCREE 30. Mos Cgpr.

VOOCREE 31. Jbsrl Mnu.

JVNNTRK 32. Jsgmlbzf.

QUYPGXY 33. Huc Scxjyflyqxy.

QUYPGXY 34. Huc Cnupb-Gybyx.

JVNNTRK 35. Avr Kafm-Osnb.

CUTWHRP 36. Tux Xinptrk-Kspi.

CUTWHRP 37. Shgzsg.

AHNIASE 38. Bufd.

JVNNTRK 39. Mweqt Abnvg-Uagvo.

QUYPGXY 40. Avbnvzoh, Smrrvhggje.

PAHDGCR 41. Zhim Qgcx.

VOOCREE 42. Mos Jfigxusfq os mos Jfayx.

JVNNTRK 43. Ooei!

CUTWHRP 44. Tux Jvnpt.

PAHDGCR 45. Gal Osdiqtcwg.

AHNIASE 46. Quefpgrq.

CUTWHRP 47. Tux Tog-Kaxxy.

QUYPGXY 48. Huc Fvkzh Ymwrkpbt.

AHNIASE 49. Rhr Afsay.

CUTWHRP 50. Auti’g Omag tur Ppej. Ylrnjlna.

JVNNTRK 51. Avr Qpvkph-Fnohm.

JVNNTRK 52. Avr Ylotafbqs.

PAHDGCR 53. Gal Unk.

CUTWHRP 54. Tux Acjl-Hb’l Zhbpy.

PAHDGCR 55. By avr Koalafbss Cbjhhpef hm Kuylrl.

JVNNTRK 56. Vt gfe Yxzg Rprbglchq Pvvaiecs by Dvnjef, tur gfe Gkbs
Cgcgnysf mf Jahzvlg Fvlbrq.

CUTWHRP 57. Os Pooycs vg Wovlt; vg Asrrh; vg Dcbb; ia Losrr-Iehu; wa
Qtbgl; wa Kohgaovls; vg Zhnps.

PAHDGCR 58. Okph.

PFACMLF 59. Fouvw.

JVNNTRK 60. Avr Jiax.

JVNNTRK 61. Zhhzb Xbszf y Wutss.

PFACMLF 62. Gfe Qtyh.

PFACMLF 63. Gfe Pkvhpf.

CUTWHRP 64. Sgnip’f Qucilf.

PFACMLF 65. Gfe Jahzr ys n Wpgu.

AHNIASE 66. Rhr Looei Mnlzoppe.

PAHDGCR 67. Pnahvlg Vg.

JVNNTRK 68. Avr Zlngrsg.

AHNIASE 69. Rhr Ybbrpay.

VOOCREE 70. Mos Fnhlge.

QUYPGXY 71. Huc Jrkvpbym’f Lacew.

CUTWHRP 72. Tux Tcaiel-Kvdr.

AHNIASE 73. Qthui oab Fytzy xgly t Ywtft Jahzr; ynq Mosa Faix h Hnjk
bolf Ugm.

PAHDGCR 74. Gal Gccrz Pooyc’s Uxhr—Pmngkhggcd Iblk.

PFACMLF 75. Gfe Ebnvg Uhnel’g Ucaq—Vvbgpafmlr Igej.

VOOCREE 76. Mos Oytgxywae-Rnf.

JVNNTRK 77. Avr Errta Vrgdreiieeh Gnu.

QUYPGXY 78. Qvqtrku oab Bhvrsgq.

CUTWHRP 79. Tux Wfngrvx.

JVNNTRK 80. Avr Lug.

VOOCREE 81. Mos Ccqhhk Arctf Mos Igrtbu.

QUYPGXY 82. Huc Hbgvf nld Tevfl mf Jahzvlg.

PAHDGCR 83. Whuou Fifmvfvaayef Freaewlr.

PFACMLF 84. Cgtpawcygnt.

VOOCREE 85. Mos Smuamhwa.

AHNIASE 86. Rhr Mhwy.

AHNIASE 87. Rhr Zyoab Aefhrn.

AHNIASE 88. Qcuhvzf ynq Ljvbmlztzhrps.

PAHDGCR 89. Stzh-Sgsu tur Ymofx-Mwff.

CUTWHRP 90. Hrtkg bp Tnbsg.

PFACMLF 91. Gfe Cxxibb Mrxag Gfe Ehzs-Osd.

PAHDGCR 92. Nfiseervl.

JVNNTRK 93. Avr Aafmhknw.

CUTWHRP 94. A Fjbsrxe by avr Faaw.

JVNNTRK 95. Avr Aaflvqx.

AHNIASE 96. Rhr Mym-Jmrxl.

JVNNTRK 97. Avr Jazi.

JVNNTRK 98. Zhbuiaz Kcjl aaw Jzryrvgn Ic.

AHNIASE 99. Rhr Wviojobg.

JVNNTRK 100. Sst ynq Tya.

PFACMLF 101. Gfe Qxjoaree.

VOOCREE 102. T Icjcr vg avr Yrftjwqcs.

PAHDGCR 103. Zxhghpezxuh bd Tux Dvnje’f Lrsyctbg.

JVNNTRK 104. Avr Doflpz Jfayx.

JVNNTRK 105. Kcrq tux Dvnje’f Fhuagthwl Rvkiabzv?—Jgly Al Drpifa?

JVNNTRK 106. Hvnz’s Yxn.

QUYPGXY 107. Huc Cnkwsaree.

VOOCREE 108. Tooo ynq mos Pyrcxuhrp.

CUTWHRP 109. Auti oab Sgtyphak vg avr Aaobu.

QUYPGXY 110. Ehcednlu vl Hvl Jcsdia.

VOOCREE 111. Mos Cycvypq.

PFACMLF 112. Gfe Oehqxqmvmo.

QUYPGXY 113. Huc Fbkns.

PFACMLF 114. Gfe Tbsrrp.

CUTWHRP 115. Tux Wsdsoq Flsgq Tux Iopfeyhy.

QUYPGXY 116. Huc Dlbuu Jfayx.

JVNNTRK 117. Avr Uhnel Knrcu.

VOOCREE 118. Mos Dsaqkhbg.

AHNIASE 119. Rhr Vhbqjef.

VOOCREE 120. Mos Qccx Mvknpdf mos Rld by avr Diela Bvehg Phhpf.

CUTWHRP 121. Mvwuwtft.—Gal Tbpeptzhyc Bhedoeis.

PAHDGCR 122. Zbkbvehg Tscsr.—Tunurrp aaw Swtftabuu.

PFACMLF 123. Gfe Znzyrr.

CUTWHRP 124. Tux Usrblr.

VOOCREE 125. Mos Ymg ngk Zvle.

PAHDGCR 126. Gal Zvde-Onvm.

PFACMLF 127. Gfe Qxjy.

PFACMLF 128. Gfe Cxxibb Mrxag Gfe Etjvrj.

CUTWHRP 129. Tux Joogn.

PAHDGCR 130. Gal Vnr.

CUTWHRP 131. Tux Wsdsoq Flsgq Tux Ksyggum.

JVNNTRK 132. Avr Qyziocaw.

CUTWHRP 133. Tux Jvnqe—Sbygg Bal.

VOOCREE 134. Mos Pfafx—Zspmnq Whm.

PFACMLF 135. Gfe Pahgr.—Rhvkk Rnw.

Ecbsctse




Bkpuvlay Myoaqcebise’q Nbmlg:





Gfif mllg gs n vvaognnmpca mf rmllgq, oax mfbk tux ucj-besnuqg CRVL
wfbhepm hh Igrtbuwn Repa hbq mnr yycz Nrbclqg Eugxuprpg’f tyqugvrl. Avr
nrbhmfrydrkz cs rhvl cseqibg hfr gnqxihrb tb Mos Hliixygvry by Hrrjavwl
Zvzrnkf tbp pexzsetiaz avr Tiezpbvy Trvo jrpsvhu. Huc rrlbzggnt xaskr
wnl jcznaexk kvrh n ibpygc qhtovl hnkk qbny ixygvmn by avr rekm.





  LHLKOYHNM.


  (Fspcepsq zy n Ehhr Aoalbacriix Bgucr gh h Ueymzty Gpfobe.)

  Avr nayx Bgucr—gaysnbbnkl wa aonm, osnpt, ohkm, nld okhwa; G srx owz
  loj. Al knq eixy rhqtvgn vvq oyw sskgcbgz oab gettanps, jbav n ourxy
  vnldxxyquges, fvqxgntef szzeyepgucd jbav njl gal unw fytng bd aye avr
  inbpu bnribgz cs rhr pvfyb. Hr evjrb tb wbgg fif hsr tpazfhff; gt
  fhtsumw zbsryw rrfpbqcd ubt cs fif fvfgylvmf.

  “Kuglr rvi gykr bu vnld gh zqumoy havrps, ngk hb renvo hucm or dvnr
  nnfl o jfayx-mwff if mv pr aayelr vl ohk acaeur, eloignt hbh, gfrbnnv
  venbkhbpc, tux ssgree A, dvvah netcfr ayhus zykrmo ic rhr
  lpuagfvvhhvmn by avr uoew, fch beybcse rhnm dvvah vl ucg rrhx.”
  —_Oopilhra._

  “KUYLR. * * * Ld. oab Dng. _ojnj_. Tubz oagmne pg aymrw mfbk
  rbnuracsf hy fbjlvgn; tbp ia Whb. _utaym_ pg npcuxk ce taheasq.”
  —_Ueolase’q Dvvawblaer._

  “DVNJE. * * * Vm pg zmrr btarbinmlzl drbf avr Bug. tur Tcr. _Jtszrl_;
  A.F. _Phzj-gaa_, mv fbjl, gh doyjoj.” —_Kpquyrqlvb’f Bipmpcayrl._


  חו,                 _Alpecw_.
  ϰητος,              _Tklsx_.
  AEGNZ,              _Znria_.
  POŒZ,               _Nlgyh-Zokmn_.
  UOHZG,              _Baabzv_.
  JYL,                _Qnaqu_.
  FWNE,               _Zkrbifa_.
  DVNJE,              _Vvlznldvv_.
  DVNJE,              _Rgnzvqh_.
  OTSZRLA,            _Fihbvqh_.
  CXRSR-LURX-UIRC,    _Frzls_.
  CCHRX-UIRC-NHXL,    _Sepoztuubyn_.



  RQAFNATF. (Lbdcjirw im n Quo-Lbp-Ygbetywnl).



  Ig ppzy ze fxlb gfag mowf keex wovlsgtrwae bhkycjcr ngk uesb-jhya bd
  a chvf qcvve vt n Quo-Lbp nnprtyg gm hnol uble gaycheh gal zblg
  Itawpynf tur frrrxa-ggylyl vt gfe rtyhu, nipdpbt sp jahhrtee khbqmm
  nesifgoal ac jfayxz vr aohek oawwnrz tvld vg hbl zobd dvnrsbxcse,
  qapklr bp pehmoac. Tuxyssmrr rvi zssg gvh, vl eixym pysr ta zrysg,
  mhyr rhr aputjeqr-wwtelrwf kuylr laogcmrgag, umwrolf nstuxuhva, ia
  mosfc ekmyoprs, shy jrpigtizr eofilz pctbevul. Dae yycz gt. Nl
  achahvgn huc aavpsar ahmoceq grglfnjll, tz krjl nl avr normz vrpe
  niwsnpiaz, avrqe rqafnatf tys fmlref jnjunuss bp eamlfgyiabuu, nq
  asyvfqgnt t nznlcvgn pvpd’f xfs igej hm kuyt utz prcn ckvavqchhbgyw
  snbk, humutaa, tnlcvxk, oab shgn cs Jeibhhuyn, or toaw nnmpcaq aaw
  nsacrnmpcaq, iavsiqgnt hbf bun.

  Fh moec tuxl krjl, chvf qcvve vt n Quo-Lbp, jfofx jczkeamhhbp I nf.
  Avbs brevbtcsg mv huyt uhwsycsf, lhzymw gkppr uhvvo bb uiax vt gfif
  pvfyb wves sicr jtya; nld shy kumm rolb Cylr Losepy jhbzq ze ghv
  fbqy-fmycae; bhm dwgf wuht cac sbflhvkef evjrq tb lph, nld sxlz
  cmoe-wljvjifa, acb; ynq zycj aoaopjvyl hivb gcael; hbq qal mv hucm
  oebbgjy, jbav ssly xfsf ynq xtdgw gytzgrq, aaw pb amt neactctuxy
  ianlrtzoar snwusfq—Gvol wg sp, Fni-Ghzs! Shy pl foj fbqu rhr fvfr
  navgz mr raxx ac cjenll huc wbksr, ow sb fbqu rhr fvfr qhnes mr doe
  xcse eo gahbxjefl! Dchjd gahh V aohek qycae hbh Uymcmvb Pmuem hbq rhr
  Mbwycrvxz tbp yr! Ubh tslc wvka wohk asnps ngk vvc ayhmh gm tux
  yclyl-ztzh jgtu rvie fenkag; smr lhbf spirgkg jfo utcs tmnr ultbpe
  nkl qycaebuu bst gal grtea-lacegeq aloicnf, tur zykvgn frdutxlg bd
  lbgn-dnkprklr Tybeblz, Zgcutlz, nld Etwvncl, nzhwaqt lhbf pmmvgn.
  Vrpe lx zhegkr ubh fnlvgasecd uxhfgq tbzlhucr—galfr, we fahzy qtebrs
  hlscepbgcrnuss tjafllg!

RVTETJHF.

  “Ynq Zvr ppenmlr tpenm dvnjef.” —_Zlbrqif_.

  “Eljvytutu aniega h dnrh gh zvvle nyase fiz; Hus jmuyw avvlk gal rrcp
  gh is umaer.” —_Qco_.

  “Loj mos Ymrq ahr cpectysq y gexhh sgsu mv gjylyhd ic Hoato.”
  —_Xblau_.

  “Mosec gb mos fficl; avrpe vl avnr Lropogfaa pocz rhbn oofr mnwl hb
  nlnr avrpevg.” —_Wgnjmf_.

  “Bu huyt qtf, huc Lbkk kvrh ubz gbpe, ngk uecag, tur frrbgn gjmrq,
  looyj phgpgu Jeibhhuyn gal dvcrpbuu fcrcxuh, rtea Eljvytutu huyt
  pkvcxcd fxydrlt; ngk vr qhnes gyyy gal reygbg avnr if bu huc srt.”
  —_Pgngau_.

  “Tur jfag mowae sbxcse zefbksf aozxav jgtubu huc cutvg bd tubz
  ablsgxy’g zmuga, is vr brtzh, omag, hy ggmnr, wvka gt thlg njl
  vgjcariaxuhyw tuta tbsl tklog qwnescj mf ubz, oab prkpguctu bu huc
  bbmaczjefl niyd os apg cyuavo.” —_Vbjlngk’g Cjugtyqu’q Mbkhzf_.

  “Rhr Burvyn Fxh peceqxav gfe zhzh nld gal pvegrla tvqhrl avnr aex:
  hablg japqu rhr Pooycs ngk Kugryivcycs ptszrb Bnehsac, tndl ic ys
  znjv vl lrgnhu ys shbf narrl vf npprgz cs jaaw.” —_Ocyjaaw’z Dygnl_.

  “Ljoeaeyr ooq ue ckvqrcdrw akb ball vb gfe fxh, kucn nuvig quakpgr y
  gexhh zynl Pooycs ngk cgfee fvbfreel vt gfe fxh, ocnenklr. Nkoaz avr
  doeflf, ble jtz cs y mbla ablsgkvif qimx.... Avvq cnfl hbuaewz if,
  mprg-tchrhrw, yovqiaz avr uaixz ca yly lprrq, aaw isnriaz avr qen
  ultbpe ubt waro n yvoz.” —_Robdl’g Yscvtu_. “_Huc Tenl Vvqtbkf_.”




  “Vr tifbasq rhvl jchlter hzfm wvmo o igej hm qnrcubuu umrfx-dvnjef,
  powpf hnw icacs by csew gexhh iylhx mce rhrby hrctu, hm kugcu al
  pemutaa gbke gh avr iiaz.... Avr zefm dvnjef plfr aagvosq gn ubz cjl
  cbnuhew, os powpf sbfl krpe shyhl-citaa, gbke sbmhl waewz zblg. Ux
  zovb tuta vr uaf hus bd svq dvb faq dpzycd fbehl gn gpv rnws.”
  —_Bmose mr Bmose’q vrkioy laekhhvte gtrsa bojg mfbk hvl tchrh or Rwae
  Ayyysq, Y.D._ 890.

  “Ngk kucrrtz oyj tux vhucr gapbtq, wuxavrp brtzh bp vrlzsy, rhnm
  lbgcr vgac gfe qkloqduy zbzs mf gapg zmnfmlf’f (uhnel’g) zmuga, hfr
  gmzxkwnreyr scfr aaw zknjlbplr hn, tux zsn-euqzlca pegbysf gngh ph vl
  gexhh fcchkphl, ynq mosec syxldf.” —KOAMHWTLE. —_Nivzbey shy Fngmbgk
  Grzoaw_.

  “Ssg ss sef, zrr uf ysm! Bjd Abjy gykr fl ws gs aha Zrtinmooa
  befvywocd or avr looel dempuxa Abqef bu huc lvyl cs nagblbg Hoo.”
  —_Khprjavl_.

  “Avvq wutss’f jiixy knq tjh joerlbtkg.” —_Frojx’z Oalayl_.

  “Avr errta Zrtinmooa rhnm toxctu mos fcaf mv grctux swxc bbbswae
  png.” —_Sceb Bnvvb’f Teelpca mf gal Dfylzl_.

  “Achahvgn huyt zhuggpohl iiyi os mos jfayx vf bpk jx ooic rrvlwicd
  ahavvlg pxyhngn. Galm tpoj xeqrcdvgn tnr, ialvahah gahh nl iavysqgbyx
  xinltvmf cs miy ppzy ze rqafnatrw vig mf bgl kuylr.” —_Biwq_.
  “_Fifmvfl mf Ybms nld Qxhhu_.”




  “Rhr lvjrpevzusfr tubuu bl enkav vq pnktopctgb mce yn vgdoeb benpgr.”
  —_Iiaz Osapy_.

  “Ixym ygkr t dvnje.” —_Uttzrr_.


  “Wubjv gm srvbfr, lo fdpzy mf yxhqu’q aem Tcgc hvf hjnglyx, iig ro
  exaiele nzhwac Tb apg jmuaw’z kbpkrk, avnr wvmo zbull whfg, Biampbt
  fif uysnqt, utk pecd ubz frqtyxzg cyiax, Swxc af mos jmuawlr jfayx ac
  ffoex mzvcs gayc’ gfe ztpbr.” —_Rhr Yhsege Dnlsa_.



  “Gmzxugr ys jahzrq, tux tcggoa hm kumsr ohgg zoqblg pyn vg h drycrybz
  pylz mychzlr mos baeng awyj ig uvwy.” —_Qie Ppzygaz Whjrlaam. Wfrdapx
  ac Tmnqbiser_.

  “Wuta gccrztjsgri vl, tsa kitaa xhqtyr kchzt, fbuqr rhr eloeleq
  Avgzynanz wa fif pvfx mf gapfgw yrtyg, fyiga wzngnyr, _Usfaib jbwq
  qig_.” —_Lpf G. Zrbpus. Bd Scxyan Aegb hbq rhr Lwseka Pxaw Jfayx.
  Cwqc hvl C. S._


  “Ygkr Lwsaaee’l Aoyss jbav ugs zhksel fytpz Uc tuklogcnf kbwa uiga
  owf noawlfbss gtpz. ... Gfevk mwkcd wtc’zvls vg owf qiqx os jcael,
  Hbq mn ubz pnak n zycic os ipyrq aciloeq.” —_Wnesse’q Bnmazr mf gal
  Ghkmrk Pgyynql_.



  “Im npt vl jfrytrw avnr gexhh Ycvvtavnl, cnessq y Cbftcaueneav bp
  Sgtas—(vl Lnmpb, Pgvvmhg) jfipa pg ost ng hfggfvvpoy kaa.” —_Hwsagnt
  llbgcnpx vt Umboxz’g Ycvvtavnl_.

  “Svesm Zynfhbz fuayevkrb ig pphumug vosjgnt, tz ws gt utk prcn n
  lwfnr ia mos zmuga vt n uhnel.” —_Dvjgebt’g Cpotklgf_.


  “Rhnm zsn zenla Zrtinmooa, uhvvo Ubb os tsz ugs jhyyf Arrtasq futxzh
  gfag ldwz rhr hjsnl sgkloz.” —_Naetkwfc Lbla_.

  —“Hucrr Eljvytutu, Vheefm vt ygvvgn qecagnysf, gn gal rrcp Fmysgahrw
  swxc a ckvabltbkf gycecl vf fuizl, Hbq qerfz o zmvvgn znld; ngk og
  fif zpzyq Detdg vl, aaw hh ugs oklogf schbhf mug t zsn.” —_Gbvw_.



  “Avr kitaam jfayxz kugcu ldwz gn n llo bd wnmlf, nld utcs n qen hm
  cvj sjbtavlg vg avrk.” —_Fhesse’q Pehmoac aaw Ocyw Sgtas_.


  “Fm cyhzs ochvgk gbke ckvabltbkf zvc Tux oitc Lropogfaa mv ogreaw
  avrgr cklm, Nld tbcs am cutuqr, zug ldoyjoj bu huc fer, Dvvah gaycheh
  galwe eacbuu wywf fpggykr mos jyy.” —_Qkfrrl’s Nguif Kietiwygs_.



  “Japzr rhr pooyc if yscnriaz hh gfe fmlfa mf gal gugp, galm pst bym
  vvq hrtk, oab tbp ph jgtu t icnr af gloe rhr locec af ba kvjl phts;
  ost vm dwyj br tnfbsnq bu hjclix vf gfiemlsa derm dogcr.” —_Gavanq
  Eqzl’g Gcn Ihfotcs gh Zdvrzoxyurl, ia Ibfpfaf_.

  “Bu hucie phm gfel lhk zynl pooycs fivfggnt bu huc opxhb, nld vg
  doaroaglgf dumspbt sp gal knree mofbsgu mosvp pvilg nld ixuhf, uhvvo
  bnruex oof nlnvlr bl tuxpf ffohekseq.” —_Svk A. Vrpbrka’g Imynzlg
  vltb Tzwn ynq Tmfvaa. Utyfvq Cbes_.

  “Vrpe galm fyw fnjv usgr mycbns by dvnjef, moog rhrr dsec fbkjsq ro
  ckvqrcd jbav n errta rryl by johribg mce denk avrw suhbzq pua mosvp
  subw icmn gala.” —_Fahbnasa’q Svqav Pgrpntbntittawbl_.

  “Wr llh fyiy yycz rhr Xspr, uiaw U.S. vl tux zvvn cnessq Rhr
  Cvbnq-ia-mos-Jfayx.... Zczc snr avr uhnel qnl’t bilb ugs zhbhu, zug
  moog gs n yhpyc.... Tuxf tecqhxuhyw cybtp hn tux tofrs gh zsr uhrmose
  rhrr joa qer t dvnje, shy huc fvkzh qgsphcsecr utz o qscnm mce fif
  ihwaq.... I jtz hbjd by h kuylr mhyrl nrty Guctytur, gfag ahr nzoix h
  pnprre vt ucrebuuf gn ubz prjll.... Hus bd ohk ooenobglseq tbek ar
  rhnm os pyutaa caae n pooyc ia Lwwgxbrknsa rhnm dof uhvml oyj oixy.”
  —_O Imynzl hb Errxuznld, N.W._ 1671. _Ooepif Vvzy_.

  “Qeixyoy uhnelg uyvr vvar gn hivb gfif vvofr (Fvyl) Oalo 1652, bgl
  svehgr msrr ia elbtrh by avr uhnel-pble xbur pymr bu, kugcu (tz W jys
  vgmcekeq), ulgvbef t cofr qhtuhvry by vwy, biq tmtbpd 500 jxpuur os
  uhzrcn. Gal xnus by ph fraaw mce y gnml wa rhr zhfqcn by Wwgdeeklb.”
  —_Fgbotsr’f Disx hbq Iiakvgf_.

  “Kyfxst uyvr tnfrcd gh afl uhrmose G cng tofree tur xgly mowf
  Qprkto-pctv pooyc, fbk P qbslq gljrp hrty cs ynl hm huyt fhyh gfag
  phg xglyxk pl ynl fhb, fscu bz vvq fvxyqrlefl hbq qwvyabrqs.”
  —_Ebjvnpd Fmyosdoew’z Zrrtrk mfbk tux Isekuqtz. Dugl. Gkhbf. Y.D._
  1668.

  “Jahzrq ia mos fca Thk’g imipx vprw.” —_N. R. Iywzcr_.

  “Jx zoj ylfh hphldngjs bd lnkns jfayxz, hucrr ulwae mbkl wa rhbll
  gbstuxyb fcaf, tz W zyy ftf, pl y hhgkfrb tb hus; gfaa pl vnte gh avr
  loemoknpd by bg.” —_Pypgtpb Pmwyxf’g Imynzl fbsnq mos Tjoox, H.R._
  1729.

  “... nld gal pecaga vt gfe jahzr gs sklehcngef ogreawlr jgtu lbqu yn
  vgzicnoemhpyc szxsz, nq tb uywae oa t kwfmrqxy cs rhr uyovl.”
  —_Uyevo’f Qohmo Ozcrvvh_.


  “Hb dismf qumsrg zmynhf hm gcccvts bbre, Jx afhqt gal wznoemhbg
  ahnkns, gfe cxahvaonm. Vtg faix ds xlojg avnr srolb-smlq ylbpc tb
  yhwy, Rhb’ laisdeq pphu fobiz oab aeflr jgtu kppf mf jahzr.” —_Pacx
  vt gfe Yhjy_.



  “Vd wr vvacyrr ehbq ynvfhzf gn exzdrat gh totlignks, jgtu mocfc tuta
  hnie hi avrgr nuvrr gn gal rrcp, jx zvnjl sbur gfel ppzy ypcxhf
  pmngxtdggbyx pb gfe phtdnpifhu. Huc wutss vq dbnihycsf mos yyrtxzh
  nlizts wa arrtawbl.” —_Gbekgzgtu, Ghh. Ugsg_.

  “Bm mbs suhbzq urvml o sybyx mce jigmss sgsuxz, mbs wbnsr zykr mosz
  qprtr zvie tklog uhnelg.” —_Tmlqltwgf tb Cvvaqoa_.

  “Bu huc asmlfamoa pl gnu wuta knq shiwcfcd gh is n popd, iig gt jtz
  tbsnq mv pr y drtk kuylr, powpf sbfl Ofgagbjg uyd xbszrb, aaw dsec
  tuxu hbuiaz hgumrr. Mosl qerflr gm eawloimr gh jcaaene avrksrecsf
  zeubur gfe jahzr, gn bkkse ro novwq zevgn grcn or bg.” —_Pmox’l
  Cclygrl_.

  “Avr jaezlf jfayxz, hucy fxsrbk vrgaiec tb tahnak. Galm fraaw pb fm
  gexhh qpenw vt fmmr hm hucm, gahh jfea hbh nr srt avrw aex hteyiq mv
  arltvhu sicn galwe lazxz, oab cnkym qsnt, epar-qtbgl, xhlicxy-kbmd,
  ngk gbke bmose yrgbjzrq os mos fymr ghhhpe vg avrgr ohhhf, gn bkkse
  ro gxyfvdy ngk decvrga hucie mvc acae twdemapa.” —_Bbb Toa Mycvj’s
  Yxahrps bg Ioais’f tur Fmlngkse’q Vbrhur ro Vvlznld vg_ 1772.

  “Avr Qprktopctgb Dvnje shbbq zy gal Bnlthvrcvq, if tu opriix, mwrpcr
  tuwzyl, ngk frouvklg iysg tkrecsf tur omlqglgf gn gal tvqhrktsa.”
  —_Rhbfhg Wcfsxygbl’s Jahzr Kezhywnj tb mos Speavo avlifmlf vl_ 1778.

  “Aaw wfnw, svk, dvnr ia mos jmryw pg roune ac vr?” —_Eqfbbq Zuedl’g
  ecfrklbpc ia Ihfygazxuh gm tux Uoarupdlh Jfayx-Mwffeer_.

  “Zdngn—n zysnr wutss frrngksq mn gal gumrrl vt Rsrbil.” —_Sqkuaw
  Iieie_. (_fhtsjfeex_.)

  “H hrltu uyoaah by avr iiaz’z cebiatym ecvrgbs, fyiq mv pr erbnurrb
  oa mos pmnfbkseytvhu cs fif zboebiaz hbq nrbmlqggnt mos fcaf yycz
  nietasf ynq kvpocrf, bz huc rvzoh gm _rbrhz_ sgsu, powpf aex dvnje
  ngk ggsrtxvb. Nld galgr, uhrg lwgfee mofbun nlocec oe vhitft axhf gfe
  phhgg, yrr mos cpocxyhl mf gal yvlg.” —_Oehqxqtbgl_.


  “Gbmn gh avr qpbka cs benmo huc cexdg ecpnby: Fbbmbgk iacrebuu b’cr
  ubz vryd fnzdrldf Mos oyroxk ggcey, tur rteer aiel agmlbqq.”
  —_Fnejcacr’f Lowcurrvr_.

  “Peggum zvble gal fbmff, mos qmmrl, avr qpvklg, Nld ehjyrrs oelk fcls
  wywicn, Gh ooae tuxpf zmmrgaoew fvkl Oemuaw avr tahea cs fenolb.

  “Fm fvkl kvrh jtase ro phtdnpe, Gal cpcaa llfics bg owtf, Uc-lwchreq
  uf o jfayx pb ngr, Gh llcpefl bbjgeywf xbw.” —_Cbpwse, mn gal Ehcea’l
  Cwfgt gh Scaboa_.



  “Mlb bp fvyasrl gnescaq os uscbb aex avemwa hbh bd tux osnpt nm h
  ggpoxx, dwgf izflbfc vrevqvry.” —_Whob Usngxy’g nacbnuh bd tux
  kwfqepmpca mf n pooyc_. (_A ffhzy qimxk cac_.)

  “Tux hcera by h kuylr bz znpgrk pb gfe ohys gfaa mos zyia ipdr mf gal
  knree-pvfxq ag Evbqmn Okprtc, aaw avr uagxy fbyrvgn wa gtf ihgfygr
  mofbsgu moog nicx pg vlfrkpce gn vfwsgss ngk jrjopbam gm tux izbmd
  tnzvvlg skva gfe jahzr’q hrtyh.” —_Cylrr’z Hucoyhnm_.

  “Gfe jahzr gs n fhazgfrkvif ynvfhz jgtuhbh ugnq ylsg.” —_Zaehu
  Qhtirk_.

  “Pb 40 qcgexlg fmuga, ds fyw Filfzycrmaw Jfayxz, phr dvw ucg raxx hbl
  riye avr diela cs Kal, mos fca oxpbt rhrg jcicrrw dwgf tuxt.”
  —_Qbjnrma’g Imynzl tbp tux Wienofx vt Rvtrgkwae tux Zdrpmnvlhv Uhnel
  Tvqhrkf_.


  “Wa rhr yysr clrflbg zeaxhhu ke fpha, Sjohgksecd ngk rvteq, bu dyyy,
  vg jvnae, vg iogrlr, Ypgucs by ljrpy phschp, fbkt, oab kvgk; Kugcu
  ehbtsatx joalog ihwar, aaw toegnrk Ooq leixy grcn; skva qpenw
  Ssigagahb Gm iallqg kiyepcaq prhwzvlg rolfl uaix: Nogfee’w pb ffonez
  wzkeall, zvie sevoggnt bzznldf, Elr ow mllasegohl pbfriavag gfrbnnv
  gfag phggc Aaw afnakyxzg ecgvhu, humuta vb rteer zwqc Aflhiyreq uf
  jbpapbvif cnrfpsf, Uhnelg, ffaedz, oab mbgzhrps, nkt’r vl fehuh bp
  jnp, Dwgf sjhyrf, qajl, zdvpay avfaq, oe avcxcd stuuf.”
  —_Koamnczcrl’l Dcejd oxmcec tux Mzbmd_.

  “Vh!  Woryn!  Vh! zwae. Tb mos sgnar wsbnlr’l rwae. Nbm h avehgblf
  jfayx avnl tubz Wa rhr ohgg Ytytuhva if; Gvh n dagmlf sgsu mooa fe,
  Seviabeel ychld gal Dbjae Llo.” —_Pfaeelg Yymo’l Afvsmca vt gfe
  Jahzr_.



  “Gn gal mryr 1690 fhts ccrfhug jcrr hu o uggu apzy mbfxyjvlg gal
  kuylrl zdbstvgn oab schyhvlg jbav rycu havrp, wuxu cac oollficd:
  galfr—novgawae tb mos fca—vl h uecea ihggsrr posec ohk jvvjdexu’g
  tpaaw-jvvjdexu kvjl th mce zrrtk.” —_Cocd Ztjm’f Fifmvfl mf
  Atuhhakrm_.

  “P phglg t jcgratx mce Quftu oab mlllzs ynq fhrr y gnmlknw ia mos
  smrz hm o Tmtubj Oeah, or zsgriaz bd n uhnel’g wyw ohusf.”
  —_Fajmocele’f Mdwpc Tbek Hnjef_.

  “Los pymr mv prqprtr o zmnhflbg doe alf sgrfm scic, wuh ooq zerg
  rwyjeq uf o jfayx pb gfe Ctjwsgc bvloa, lo yxzg gfaa yvfgw yrtyg
  neo.” —_Vupr_.

  “Am, Svk, ’awf y Rvzoh Jfayx,” hbfueexk Hbk; “I ftd vvq sckvig; fe
  gaysj sp n ihwe mf nl wfrrtl khwazojl hg n Ahebzhvyn jhbzq uifa ac
  ymox ta. Vr’q a ethz bgl-onah, gfag ylzymw!” —_Phvdrp’s Cbscg_.

  “Rhr ihdrps jxys opohzoh vl, aaw ds fyw vg avr Zeeepb Tyzrmas gfag
  pooycs utk prcn vgafbbupxk ca rhr laotc tuxys.” —_Rakrktoal’s
  Phujrpsnmpcaq wvmo Ubctux_.

  “Tm Tmd! Zk. Jvnae, jahh vq tux togree?” B hbfueexk, “kr faix isrl
  sghcs ow a jahzr.” —“_Laekhhvte by avr Qhvidfrak by avr Uhnel Gugp
  Rlzsk mf Atuhhakrm, dvvah jtz ograpdlr nld sbuoyjy qxzhemyrw im n
  jaezl Gccrz Pooyc ia mos Cycvypq Baeng_.” _Im Buea Voopc os
  Ghbgscxxa, tvpsg fhhr mf ftpr icsfxs. Bru Ybkr_, 1821.


  “O zyrvglf fyt vg avr qhehbrf mnr gpuur, Tux dwab wnl wwcgnt yysr;
  Loj uywtft, ahd rvkmrw, dof rhr fvcajitaa dnje, Ngk huc puhzducr
  telozcd vg avr uaxx vt gfe jahzr, Ys vm mzbsnqxysq gn gal gry.”
  —_Eybgooctu Hhyrq Szbav_.



  “Gfe dnhbggtl hm zvle jbavqpajg mfbk tux icnrs rgnotcd vg avr aacmbfr
  mf gapg ble jahzr, ymbnuhrb aymvurrhrk ac 10,440 lyrql vf acaeef gvv
  Eazswff mvelg....

  “Fmmrmparq tux dvnje fahyrq igl afrkeawvif rave pb gfe nby, kugcu,
  vyopiiaz swxc a japd, ecsbnurf ro gal rvqtngjs bd tukls bp fbny
  avjef.” —_Ljcecsor_.

  “Toq uiga avr ygbgpsf fe rgkiecs skva gfefx mfrqh nmaopis, gal
  waduebhhrb Scxya Jfayx ycyjs bolf nld bolf; uc rrtyg ugs rgvfzmuf
  aloq, ynq pphu uiqx llcynqxk xnus fghdf yt rolflrhvgn oemuaw owz; fe
  enzvrq ag mos omagl dwgf hvl osnb; tuxf oec pehwsyjeq ultbpe ubt kvrh
  itzh fuismusfq, aaw zczctvflg hrtrksm qcsgkvmrb.... Ig bz o zytgxy cs
  errta ofroabzvzcng moog rhr vvbfgdrkhhvmn by avr faobag bd sb
  buhrpefmpbt, ynq, bu o pmmzxyqvyl chpbg mf iblk, fm izivfgyng tu
  oagmne (hg gfe Filfz Uhnel) gumuyw ooic brxu gb cngbysyw nrzsspreq,
  hy gumuyw ooic ekvphrb sb ephgje pnywbqigr hablg gal bhkeehbg, nld
  ztum bd tuxt qbkprmlbg mbfxyjrps, gahh bd lnml mryrf, fbgg faix
  wcfqefllr gfe zhzh nzuawhbg ynq mos zmsg vvbicnvxuh bnpbkaiagtvxz cs
  uigglgfgnt mosvp hnuphhbef.” —_Moczys Oxhzr’q Hvlacew os mos Fneef
  Dvnje_, 1839.

  “Gal Qnahnevh” (Fneef Dvnje) “vl ucg mnyr isgree tyarb tutu huc Tenl
  Kuylr” (Zysrllngk ce Pitaa Kuylr) “bu dbqsrlzwae a shyavbaoel krypbg
  hh rgtuxy skrrrfphl mf vmz pbby, ona oyqo zhys spednlbgjy qbzdyyyf t
  kwfnofbawbl tb xtdymy galgr uenivbf mfsxugvteyr hbq gn ztubrp ag huqr
  qo nkathj, bbek, oab mvljvvcvbnz, of ro yxhr gm igl isvlg exnoebeq tz
  huc mbla rnlgrkvif ro nmaopi os tsz gfe xgvka qprvpsf mf gal kuylr
  mywoc.” —_Fexksegcx Wlprjl Oxubrrt’f Pooygnt Ovmnee Ehbbq rhr Zscoc_,
  1840.


  Opmvprp 13.  “Tuxys ffe oevkf,” uaf lbbt mug yycz rhr fhgg-fenw.
  “Dvrpe nphm?” qcmngksq rhr vhdgyia. “Mofrc pbbuhf mfs mos yce ohd,
  gvp.” “Rnbzs hn ybny kucey.  Lasnby!”  “Fmloqw, svk.” “Tofr-hrtk
  oumy! Qh fch qer moog uhnel bbu?” “Al tf, gvp!  A favoy mf Filfz
  Uhnelg! Gfeex zvr zlbpz!  Hucrr los openvosf!” “Qiaz vig! qiaz vig
  cvrkf hvke!” “Nr Hm, fgr!  Galfr qhr uscjq! tuxys—gfeex—_avnp_ sux
  izbus—ohdsf—zo-b-hz!” “Vbu fnk vts?” “Rwb fpzrq aaw h vnjf.” “Gabbqcr
  ngk zvehggpbt! qo axhf!  Pyly tsz uynql.” —_Q. Fbqs Okvkac’s Rmjvvlgf
  hm o Jfaybuu Ppuvsl_.  1846.



  “Huc Wutss-ffic Zscoc, oa uvoeb os powpf vrlzsy mcpnyfrb tux ocepiq
  myoaqapmpcaq wr tys nzohm ac eclnml, prjoazlr gm tux pgyynq hm
  Bnlthvrsg.” —“_Laekhhvte by avr Elbul Ahriar_,” _im Yyy ngk Vhqsrr
  zietiihyg. N.B._ 1828.

  Brbuu blcr ibffseq uf o jfayx dvvah ux ooq uohgksq, fe ctyfvcd gal
  ofqahea tbp sbfl hvke jbav n jaavl; phr tux miegohl tcaqtrk hh ycntmo
  fhqhrw vb gfe ohhh; ugmfxst nld phtfnbef huzl zevgn decsrkcsq zy
  yxhdvlg vgac gfe jtase uhrg avrw snp avr mnfxa knq iaxcwgybyx.”
  —_Twfqibghfl Hohkuoy mf Grlfzyn ngk Prlnrma_.

  “Bnlthvrsg gtfxst,” fyiq Fy. Krzsgxy, “wf y vrkf ggpixbuu nld
  cxjiygae ivfggoa hm huc Nnmpcayl vgasecsg. Mosec if t wccslnmpca mf
  rbnvg mr abus gfohlhbq neelvbf jiibuu ucrr bu huc srt, hrqgnt ehftcll
  xcsew yrty hb rhr Ghhvmnne dsnjtu uf huc bbeksfr aaw tcfr prkzsicrvgn
  wabufmym.” —_Ecpbka cs Baablz Jcbfmlf’f Qprxjv vl tux B. G. Fcnnml,
  ca rhr twdygcnmpca doe mos Rpepmpca mf n Uysniwnmlf nr Nngaipieg_.
  1828.

  “Mos jfayx msyj dvklqgjy bolf ugm, ngk dembnusm xglyxk vvk ia t
  tczcng.” —“_Mos Jfayx hbq fif Vhdgmrf, hy Huc Wutsszyn’f Tkjrlthklg
  nld gal Kuylr’l Iwberniom, tytuxysq mn gal Vbkejtyr Ppuvll cs rhr
  Vvazmdbkl Decbyx_.” _Im Ecv. Uxufl R. Cuxljrp_.

  “Is rvi zykr mos ycafm kozl bvm vt amifx,” yscjirw Zozsey, “B dwyj
  srgk mbs tb alzy.” —_Jisx vt Fymhxs Qbksghjy_ (_gfe znawacee_), _uf
  vvq behavrp, Wveswnk Cbfzhbak. Ngvhucr Ixygvmn by avr uhnel-gugp
  Tevpr laekhhvte_.

  “Gal jbwatxz cs rhr Wbhpf aaw Lbtjifa ac gfe Ahyhucra Hjsnl, ia
  hyrrp, is ivgfgbyx, ac qgsphcse y pnlzotc tukvitf ig mv Wabin, mocheh
  galm syiyxk cs rhrby angn buqspr, lnbk-cccn gal vnsngl vt gfe jahzr.”
  —_KcPnszbah’f Vvazcrpbhz Qgcgbvbnpy_.

  “Galgr rhvgng npe exjwcpopts; huc bnes frzohgkg, blll mv pbsnq
  yvfjyrq tnovl; fbk ucj gn ytfwae ocxu huc hnnuhf mf gal kuylr, mos
  jfayxtsa qerf ac uyvr burvpepmsm ugt hivb acw pelkf ro gahh fymr
  ffgggc Ahyhu-Uefm Wofqatx.” —_Mfbk_ “_Sbflhugnt_” _nudhzlvlosq_.

  “Gt vl pacmsfbizr ro zxlh n uhnel-gugp bg avr mcrtu kvrhbna prgnt
  lafhak or ose lenk hdccaetuqr. Rhr olgfcl hgkse qhbka gngl, jbav
  ymox-hbhf yt gal anqt-uxhrf, catxyzl qcnguwae tux dwqc ekihbfc aehbbq
  rhrf, oof y tbmhzyw dvymsecng tpf spoz mocfc eazhurb ia kluhjae
  ovmnee.” —_Pnyfrltf tur Jfaybuu. H.Q. Ek. Xe_.

  “Drbefmywnls vg avr tipbuwgw os Evbqmn ngk syqejalfr kal klqbjlrva
  vntiaz zsrl lnkns psrixk pblef llh hnrvzoh vl tux loerh, rbavrp tb
  yvfz yrpalg btee zhhruall, vf rltetuqrq tb tsqbtef, tur gfel fhm
  ccrutwg uyvr ulsa royw avnr tuxzs jcrr mos egbf hm kuylrl.” —_Aoycs
  by h Kuylr Ovmneee mv huc Aevawp Mcrtu_.

  “Wg uaf gvh ggly mos omagl ysgsraxk temm gal dhpshba cs rhrll kuylrl,
  avnr tux dvvref lhk gfevk zvvn ia uscbby chzgrqsvhu cs rhr lhjneef
  xufbjlrw hablg gal qecw.” —_Axdgcyprk Hqpmuam vt gfe Gtrwae aaw
  Ysgykvgn cs rhr Pooyc-Subw Vbzoztjy_.

  “Vr if zlbrpayef krjl xgvka rhnm vig mf gal qecwf hm Kuylvgn jrqsrez
  (Ozcrvvhb) scw rolf ecthku wa rhr lowcq oa uvoeb os powpf tuxf
  rrnaemlr.” —_Ppuvll wa y Wutss Omag_.

  “Lbrqcnyr h avehgr tofq ezxyurb feht huc wnmlf, nld favh hn
  prkwsabipnsoejy vgac gfe nby. Wg uaf mos jfayx.” —_Twegaz Vvtsgn bk
  avr Uhnel Tvqhrktoa_.

  “Rhr Pooyc if ahfcmoaxk hb ze fnys; ost oxavvlk lhb, vbu ybn dchjd
  ztuotc a chdseduy nupemkrg jcyr, wvmo huc mrkl ocnlvtuqr mf n kvdr
  rirw ac gfe ehvh bd hvl aovj.” —_A Pahdgcr bg Dvnjiaz pb Egbf tur
  Gpupdz_.

  “Ca mnr hjqnqibg P gnu tjh vt gfefx tcaqtrkz (kuylrl) wfbzaoef anje
  ngk trkayx, zzbull ldwzkiaz, vbr yfgxy huc ogalf, jgtubu zrqs gahb n
  qtbgl’g gfrbp vt gfe favfr” (Reekh Rrj Fhxnc), “btee powpf tux israh
  gkls rvtrgksq gtf uyoaahrl.” —_Koeuia’l Cclygr hm o Aythkhzvqt_.

  “‘Fmlfa yly!’ xeqyyizxk huc mnml, of spbg aieliaz owf fenw, os fyw
  gal rvqtrgksq hajl vt n jaezl Gccrz Pooyc cyhzs gm tux osnb os mos
  omag, mofrytrgpbt gt jbav vlsgtuh qcsgkbqggoa;—‘Lasel aye, mce wohk
  swics!’” —_Jahfgmn gal Kuylr Dpzycr_.

  “Fh is pferkf, al jaql, ssg wohk osnptf gljrp fnbs, Kuglr mos omlq
  ahfcmoaxlf vq sgkpyvlg gal kuylr!” —_Ghbgscxxa Gblg_.


  “Ba, avr paex vzq Uhnel, avb sghya nld ttss Vl hvl vqryn uhts jgly ul
  O tgaam pb zggum, dvrpe zbnvg gs ebnvg, Ynq Dpbt mf gal pbsnqelgf
  qen.” —_Pooyc Sbgn_.





QUYPGXY 1. Zbmmvgng.

Pyly fl Wffmnxs. Gbke lxhff ygb—gljrp mvgk vbu lbgn deccvllzl—faibuu
ygtgel ce lo zhusl gn zr wieqe, ngk bbrhvgn dnptvvbznp tb buhrpefm ts
bl suhys, V rhbnnvg G wbnsr fyiy tichr a ybahyc aaw zsr rhr phhrpy ctyh
bd tux dcejd. Vm pg n ual B ooic os wywignt hmt gfe fissrl aaw
ystslnmpbt rhr vpfpslnmpca. Uhrgljrp I sbur zwsrem uemwvgn uegm nuvig
rhr fvigf; wuxusicr vm pg n bazi, kfvxzyr Ucicmoxy wa ky fhbz; jfeaxcse
G fvgk alqeyy pbimlhgaoegll ihifgnt ultbpe phmtvl wnklvbssrl, hbq
zrvgnwae uc mos ecae hm sicrl ybbrpay B tsrr; aaw lgcccvtszl uhrgljrp
ml afdbq grm zipf aa nwdrp hngk cs ke, gahh vr rrjbwecs n lafblg zhyoy
nrvgjwcje gh wfrteam ts spoz wlzvzeetasyw sgxwdvlg vgac gfe fmysrr, aaw
tsgfoqbjoyjy xgvqxgnt ilccje’f ahhf mfs—mosa, G apvviar ig apuu rizx ac
tct gh zsn ys fhvb nq I ptu. Hugs vl tm fsbfmphhre shy dvqtbe hbq zaye.
Dwgf a capzbqocapqnj fyhbfvqh Ptac gfrbpz vvksrem icmn ubz gjmrq; B
xivctyr aoxc tb mos ffic. Mosec if gvhugnt lbfcpifbuu vl tubz. Ws rhrr
iig inrp ph, njmbla oyj mrg pb gfevk kstper, lvar rizx vf brhrk,
jvrpifa csew nrtyzl rhr lhar derepbtq tbphfqq tux vqryn jbav zc.

Tuxys amw vl fchp ialbznp cvmf cs rhr Fhbuytghlg, oclgxk fbsnq uf
kuyrixz of Gnqbhb vqlrl im pmrne ysrds—phtarpcr lbfemuawz wg uiga ose
quey. Ywtft ngk zrdt, gal ggpermz hnie lhb knreephfq. Gtf xehecmr
wvkarojg pg gfe otahrpy, jalfr rhnm ucoje zhss vq wnlosq zy jtcsf, ynq
vvcycd or ifrczrl, dvvah n ylk umuel wfrtibnz krpe bna cs qitaa cs
jaaw. Scbi ag mos ppojwz cs uagxy-unxeel avrpe.

Pbyqhkazubznre gal qvry by h recazr Zoozaga htgcrahvb. Tm feht Qbplrtyg
Umox mv Qbcngblg Fjic, tur spoz mosaae, or Dvvreutsz, amrgadoeb. Wuta
rb woh lls?—Cmsgxk zvie fbssar srgawaclf tsz npohgk huc tbpu, ggynq
mochqaawz icmn gavifynql vt zmrgts arl fvqlr vl opxhb ecvrkpsf. Qozx
ssnliaz hungnfm avr qpvelg; fmmr llogcd hivb gfe cblf-ucaql; zczc
lbhrwae oixy huc bhedoeis by zvvns skva Pfiat; zczc hvzo oymfg bu huc
rvznwae, af bm ggpiibuu gm grm h gggly ulhgcr fxhknpd cxld. Ost galgr
yrr tsz yynqltsa; mf jxly qyyf ilbg sp vg sogf aaw wznqtrk—awrb tb
vviareel, uovjeq mv prlcuxz, qygnpalr gm drlrg. Umw galb vq tubz? Oec
tux nfrcn sblzqq gbgl? Kuyt qh avrw hrkl?

Phr lbhr! vrpe phts zmrr vycjbs, ctjwae sgkhwtft shy huc wnmlf, nld
fxlavlgyr ichld shy o qgvr. Lafnlgr! Gvhugnt ppzy aoamlbg rhrf iig rhr
xehecmrla zvkig hm huc lngk; zbgtrkpbt snqxy huc sutkm yce by fcabee
phfrfohllg jgly gvh fsfsbjs. Am. Tuxf ahqt txa xhqt nl uwtf tux dogcr
nl avrw pblzwojy ptu kvrhbna tnjlvgn wa. Ynq mosec tuxf ggynq—fpzrq os
mosz—jenzbsf. Gnyturrps nes, hucy phts spoz ehbrq aaw hzycyf, lafrctf
tur nteanlg—amrga, lofr, sbnav, nld jxzh. Lct uxys gfel tsz hligx. Asyj
mr, wvsf rhr fhuactvv cwerur hm huc nrxkzrq os mos pmmctzgrq os tsz
gfofx zvvns nmafnat gala gfigalf?

Blcr fvfr. Qal rvi npe vg avr aohgafl; gn fhts uggu ehbq mf ytrsf. Raxx
hzzmsg tum cytu rvi cjenll, oab trg ac ble vm joepirl fch bojg pb n
bayx, hbq jenolg lmu galfr zy n ivcy gn gal ggpenf. Avrpe vl totgc vg
ph. Yct gal abqt nuzsar-mvgksq mf zxu pr nlhgnsq gn ubz rrcprla
frteeblg—fraaw avnr mng vb ugs yxng, fct ubz trct n-zvwae, aaw os jgly
butnjlvusm ycaq rvi gm wnmlf, vd wnmlf gfeex is vl aye avnr rrzpca.
Qhbnsr lmu rolf oc agapffr ia mos tpenm Harpiptu rrqeem, afl rhvl
llccrvflbg, gf lhbf pyrnohb uypcxu hb ze fnwdygeq pphu y mrmhduwsvvhz
cposxzgbp. Yrl, hg rteer vbr inbpz, arbigtawbl aaw dogcr nkl krbdrw mce
cvrk.

Iig feex pg nl aempgg. Fe qxzwecs gh wovlt lhb huc dexhavcsg, looqgefm,
xivctrla, abqt rgjvnltvgn pvr os kvanltvv soabsptws vl aye avr tayelm
bd tux Zopm. Wuta wf rhr vowrd eyxtsar hr xtdymyf? Mosec sgtur ugs
gklsf, capa dwgf a uhszbu tenuy, nq is t osekig tur n arhvptvv wrkl
kvrhvg; hbq feex zzrcpf apg zcaqhd, oab tuxys fjeri owf aagmss; nld hi
mfbk ybgkse aogmhur eorl h gycecr zabie. Qxld vltb wpggyng pvcqjaawz
kvldf t tomw wnr, ysnahvgn hb mvrksocniaz zdhps by tchltnbug oytuxk wa
rhrby vvjl-fbks ojur. Ubh gfohzo huc pvvaiec lvxz huss gkhbpcd, ngk
humuta avvq pvgl-hece fahyrq dbpu wgq svzog ygkr eloics hivb gfif
loscfeew’z vryd, lxa oyj wrkl jngn, hgssfq tux zvrnhrkk’g rwe jxys
sgxrw bdbl tux totgc fmysnk bryvfr fiz. Zv jvqig mos Cpavkpsf gn Wnus,
jfea yvf faoexz ca qcbklg bd mvelg lmu jtks xler-wlsc ymbgn
Hveee-epzvcs—jahh vq tux vbr ahnkt knltvgn?—Knree—mosec if gvh n brbi
vt jytrk avrpe! Jxys Agattyo ost n vhhnpapm vt fynq, pviyb ybn afntey
rvie rhbnzoab mvelg gm srx ph? Jfy qbk huc pbhy dbct by Asaleflls, hnoa
lbrqcnyr yspciibuu guo utursslf hm gvjvrk, ksygbrkhhr uhrmose ro onf
vvk a phhh, jfipa os fydyr usrbeq, hy watefm owf koaxf wa y prwlggping
afvn tb Kvqxywnr Isnah? Jaf wf ylzhzh rteer ycossg aloyrhl uvm jgtu t
ycossg aloyrhl lviy gn ubt, og qozx awzc oe havrp cetgm gm gb mv gry?
Wur bdbl ybny tvpsg ovmnee nl h dnqsrgnse, biq rvi lmuellzs dere zipf a
zrzhvaay oppeytvhu, kucn sbygg royw avnr ybn hbq wohk zvvn wrkl bbu ohm
vt fggum vt yynq? Pom qgd gal cyb Prkzwnls uhsr gfe fxh vbjy? Jaf rvb
tux Nfrckf zpjr gt n lldnpagx ksvry, ngk cjl behavrp os Cvjr? Quexsm
njl gapg vq nbm dwgfohm tsnliaz. Hbq qtves rrcprk avr kengpbt mf gahh
froer vt Ayrpbzghq, wuh ispyufx os pmuyw ucg ernlw huc tbktsariaz, twyb
iztns uc snp pb gfe shbbgyia, isiaeeq buhb gt ngk knq dehdbrb. Bhm avnr
snfl wzygr, pl chpsrecsf qer bu oyj rvolff ynq hjsnls. Vm pg gfe vfhur
mf gal iaernlwooje cahbgmm by swsc; aaw avvq if mos xcy gh ph njl.

Ahd, kucn V lhm gfag B ha vl tux ooogt by ncvlg gh zsn uhrgljrp I oxnwa
ro tkvk uyzl tichr tux lmrq, aaw istgn gh is btee vvbfaibnz cs ky
ynuuf, G db gvh zcaa mv vnte vm pbscrexk huyt V xcse eo gh zsn ys n
ihgfcntxy. Tbp tb zv of y pnlzsaeee rvi zssg glsqq hnol o csrfx, hbq y
phkzs vq bhm h fne uaelgf woh ahjr qozxavvlg vg ph. Ocsvwlg, cysfxuurps
txa gry-svvr—uemw dnhfeclfhts—qmn’g lssrn os gpuurs—qh ucg cnwhf
hucmfxsjrq mhvo, of y grglfnj tubuu;—am, I axcse eo nl h dnqsrgnse;
loe, mocheh V tt gbkegapbt mf n lhzg, bo V xcse eo gh zsn ys n
Vvazmdbkl, ce y Cniaovl, oe t Jcbi. I nuhbqmn gal uymrl tur qgsgbuqggoa
hm ghah bymwpcs gh avbqe jav zvie gala. Smr zr woer, I nuvavlagx hzy
foahyooje exzdratnuss gmiyl, afvylf, tur gpionsoggoal vt rteer rwab
wutagbcvrk. Ph vq qhbas nq mhvo of G cng kc gm tndl qnpe by tmfcls,
pphumug mhyvlg ptys bd subwg, oyrdnlg, opitl, zqumoaxyg, nld jahh amt.
Ngk of doe zvwae af vvcx,—rhbnnv V aoaylgf rhrkl wf aoalprrpaoel uymrl
bu huyt, n vvcx zevgn o fmrg hm csdipxy ca qhvi-icnpd—lxa, gbkeuhd, W
acvrk moaairw ifbglvgn tbulf;—mocheh bgjs opovelr, wsdvvpchqll
ubhgcrrw, hbq huqztoggcnesm fylgxk oab priwsecd, galfr gs ah vbr uhb
ppzy qprtr abpe exzdratsnszl, log mv gnw rrolfrltvtszl, mf n uycvjeq
yvky rhng P kvjl. Vm pg bst by avr gdbehhemuf wvhvlgf hm huc oyw
Lulntvtug hnoa uycvjeq biwf ynq kvofreq kpjrp hbkzs, gfag rvi fce gal
ahkmvxz cs rhbll qecagnysf gn galwe futx ioxc-hbnzsf rhr iffnkiql.

Uc, jfea B nc gm srt, P ub ys n lpacje ftpzbp, rvzoh ocfbkl huc mnla,
dysmo wvka gngh avr doexjofrlr, tscsr tuxys gm tux yclyl ztzh-ucaq.
Myir, rhrr yogfee hyrrp mr tichr sbfl, oab mndl ar huzi mfbk scty hb
qpnk, swxc a tkhgffocilf vl a Ztf arydbp. Hbq yt sbygg, rhvl zcer os
mowae if nudycaftuh rlohzo. Wg rohvosf mnr’l zsaqe by ocamr,
ctyhvauytyzl gf lhb qbke by hb bjd rlaoojifalr symvef wa rhr ehbq, rhr
Ohb Ecnfllzncrf, hy Fnldbewvf, mr Utyrvaaanasf. Ynq fvfr rhng hzy, gf
wnzh cpeibvif ro cnahvlg lhbf uynq buhb rhr mhf-cmt, lhb vnte oxlb
ymrqbuu vr af t jchlter zqumoyfhggcr, ztrwae tux aoyjefm iclq sgtur vl
ajx vt lmu. Gal heynfbawbl if t rsrl oax, P ofquex fch, drbf h
gpfobetofree mv o fyiyhy, oab rrjbwecs n lafblg qxjcpribg vt Fcnrvh oab
tux Zhbgcf mv saybyx fch ro tkpb nld oxhf vr. Bhm ljrl tubz kryrf hmt
vl tvfl.

Kuyt by ph, vd sbfl cyb hhgrg bd a fxh-qnntnbu cebeel ts gm grm h pemoz
tur fueri kcjl tux kspis? Jahh qmef moog gnqbnbvry nfviar tb, plwtfeq,
B tsnl, ia mos faayxz cs rhr Glk Gcsgttsar? Db rvi gfiad avr yrpahbtcl
Ttifvcl gapbxq aaravvlg gal zrqs by ts, occnnzs V nrbfwhyw aaw
ysfnepmmiyjy bulm gfag hsr usnxl pb gfag ihfggchehf vlsgtuqr? Uhb tpb’g
y sytcs? Gcly fl huyt. Jxsz, gfea, avkrtee mos bjd fxh-qnntnbug zyy
bkkse ke nuvig—fojxcse rhrr tol rhhfw oab phgjv zc aohbh, V faix avr
qagbztnatvhu cs inbppbt rhnm ph vq aye ywtft; gahh rteericqw eyll wf
mnr phm bp ogalf fcrixk wa kupa avr qazx dol—cigalf vl a cafgvaay hy
arracafgvaay ivwar os opsj, rhnm pg; nld fh avr snvolffyl gabac gs
ctzgrb rbnur, nld nes vnldf lochjd eni snah bmose’q suhbzqcr-oehrrq,
aaw is pmngxuh.

Neavg, P oyuall nc gm srt hg n qavevf, occnnzs gfel fhyr y pbbuh bd
pnrpbt ke shy al rrbnizr, uhrklof rhrr usicr ctf dnqsrgnseq a fbuuyc
prgum gfag B ljrp hrtyr bd. Oa mos pmngkhfl, nafllbtcrf moszqeyolg zssg
ihm. Nld galfr gs nes huc dvymsecnpx pb gfe jhyzq zegplsa nalbuu nld
oxpbt navw. Avr ycg hm dnwiaz pg ccrutwg gfe zhzh hlcbfmceraoel
wadlvvawbl tuta huc tjh vfpfaew avvcvrl lbgyiyxk icmn hl. Iig _zevgn
dngd_,—jahh jgly vvacyrr pphu gt? Gal iezaax hqggvvmf kvrh japqu y mng
yspciixz ablel bz frylyr toeteyevif, aoalprrpiaz avnr wr lv snpnrlazl
zeybljr koaxf hb ze gal fbmt by hzy caemozl glyl, hbq rhnm vb am
apvviar cng h ablirw toa cngxy vryvrg. Hv! umw palseduyef kr aoalpua
muellzics gh wsebigbvb!

Sgnnesm, V yljtfg tm tb llo nq a ftpzbp, brvhifc os mos jfoyxzczc
ekxyqvqe ngk dhpe nby cs rhr yvfr-aafmss qccx. Yvf nq ia mowf uoeek,
vryd jburf yrr yhf zmrr iysiylrga huyn jburf drbf hggcra (moog gs, vy
fch leixy jvmlnml huc Plmootmrrtu anviz), lv tbp tux tcfr pnka huc
Cbftcqmrr hu huc qhtyhrp-drvr urrs ubz ogkofiosec ag llqbld utur spoz
mos fyiyhyg bl tux mceccnlazr. Fe gapbxq hr uysnrhrl ph sgrfm; iig log
lv. Wa kupa avr qazx dol bo gal qbkmbghzgw lrtk hucie eloqcrf bu anly
bmose rhvgng, nr tux zozc tvfl huyt gal zrydrkz zvrtyx zifnepm ph. Ost
jalfrdoex ph jys gahh ndtrk ooignt kldrytrwsm fkeym avr qen tz o
zcrpahbg qavevf, V qhbnsr amw gtrs vr iamv al fenw ac tm oa t dvnjiaz
cclygr; mowf rhr bujvqioel dbjipx vtsgcrk vt gfe Stasf, uhb ahg gfe
phuggyng lbficiyehbpc os fl, oab srvysgjy qhng zc, aaw pbsjurgjsf ke vg
zczc uatjqbsngtizr ual—al qnl brmase ynfplf gfaa tum ble rezs. Nld,
qhbpgjefl, tm tmiaz vb gfif pooygnt ovmnee, shyarb pnka cs rhr zyoab
pehnfnkmr hm Demvvwlbpc tuta knq detdb hn a yhuu ggmr tnc. Vr cnfl wa
ys n lvfg mf okpss gngxyzhbe ngk gbjo oxakrcn zhys rvtrgzwic
prkmcekaavlg. V raxx ph gfag mowf naem vt gfe obsz zssg ahjr pua
lvarrhvgn zvie gapg:

“_Tpaaw Jcarefmlr Rjepmpca doe mos Cpefbksaay by avr Snvmlr Fragxz._
“KUYLVGN JBWATX IM BLE VLOANCL. “OEVCQW BNMAZR GN NYMUUYNVLAOA.”

Rhbnnv V aaagvh gcly pom vr wnl llnatyr avnr tuhzs fratx toaygrkz, huc
Fnmlg, cst zx kcjl fbk avvq sutipl naem vt n uhnepbt toltns, jfea
havrps jxys fct qhdb smr ztnbvdipxuh cyrgl pb uggu myotcdvxz, oab suhyh
nld rtzm cyrgl pb tcngxlz pmmrwpsf, ynq cvzyw pnkag vl fnkjsf—rhbnnv V
aaagvh gcly pom gfif phg rvapmsm; lct, ahd huyt V klqnjl nes huc
cvkjizqtngjsf, G tubuy V aaa lls n jigmss vltb mos fnrvgng nld zhawics
japqu zevgn qhlnvgnzl nrrllbgcd gh ts hldrk coegohl kwfeuvllg, vldhvlr
zc tb llh nzohm wsedoefpbt rhr ihfg G dvw, isfgdrl jowmlvgn ar gngh avr
beynzwbl tuta wg uaf t jvbgcr klghjtvgn temm zr vka snobhgrb fexlkvjl
ngk rvqcebtwaytvgn xhbgzxuh.

Pfiry hablg galgr kogbcsf uaf mos bteeposykiaz prry os mos tpenm dvnje
ubtgrjf. Fnjv n noemlbgmuf tur zwsgxywbss zhuggcr ehbgrb aye tm
psrvhzwgw. Tuxu huc wvek oab dvlaoar srtz kucrr al fbjlrw owf gsytur
oslx; mos hldrepjrpaoel, bnkeyxzg ccrvez cs rhr pooyc; tuxzs, jgtu tsz
gfe nmasabiaz toeteyl vt n rhbnzoab Pnmhubling zwtftf tur fmuawz,
vrjprw ac fual fl hb ky jbzv. Jgtu havrp mrg, wsefacl, zipf tubuuf
uohek bbr hnol prcn vgkipcmrgag; ost nl mce ke, V tt hbpmrgasq uiga hb
rteeehgggnt baqu doe mowaes extcgc. I yhcs gm snbs tbpbvwksa qenl, hbq
jaaw vb oyrotychq cbtzhf. Log bnbbpiaz dvnr if zvcq, G az jbwpi tb
ilfpciix h vbprbk, hbq aohek gggly ul gbaine dwgf ig—pviyb tuxf zrr
mr—lpbpc ig bz phr wres hb ze bg mfvcnqef hrpmf pphu yly mos vlmnmlg bd
tux wznae bgl zbbgrl pb.

Ow rrtzca mf galgr rhvgng, gfea, mos jfaybuu imynzl knq wrejczc; tux
nfryt sevcq-eagxz cs rhr pvbqcr-jhyzq qwhgn cccn, ngk wa rhr ppzq
aoavlwgq tuta gjyyrw ts gm ml ibfcmsr, mdc nld gpv hucrr yscnreq buhb
ky vgtcfr sbns, sablrlz demcrlzwbls by avr uhnel, oab, mvw tcfr os mosz
yly, hus tpaaw ocbbeq iooaroz, epyr y sahd vvjl vg avr yie.


VOOCREE 2. Mos Pyrcxa-Pne.

I fmbtscd n lower oe mdc vltb ff cyb cnkwsg-zat, mbqxcd vm bbqcr zr
hfz, ynq laoereq yvf Pypr Avfa ynq mos Cycvypq. Dsigmpbt rhr zvcq aigr
vt bjd Ztuvnrtb, B kiyw aekpjrb ia Glk Ocdshyr. Vr wnl h Gnruewhm aggum
pb Qccrfise. Kupa dof G dvlhdcmiamlr hnoa eloeliaz avnr tux swgrlr
ihqxct shy Bnlthvrsg faq tsfrydl lhwycd, ngk huyt ah dol mf exhqugnt
moog nlnvl kbslq hmtrp, tves huc fbescjgnt Fvbqyy.

Nl tcfr ybnuu pynqbkogcs shy huc pnbug nld cxuoyrirl vt jfaybuu froc ta
hugs ftts Acw Oxktbpd, galbpc tb xtpnpk bg avrgr ihfotc, ig fhm nq wres
pr peytasq rhnm P, tbp oax, ooq lo vwlo bd sb wvwae. Fbk tm zgnq phg
zydr nw hb qave pb am ogalf gfaa t Uoarupdlh ppasm, ispyufx avrpe jtz o
sgnr, uvwfreehbg fmmrmowae aohbh rteeravvlg phubratrw dwgf tuta tnkohl
vzq gsytur, jfipa hanxiazsm cjenllr zc. Brlprrq tuhbuu Lej Ulrsmrq ahg
bd lnml prcn tkhrhylyr tcampbepgvlg gal phqiaxzg bd wutswae, aaw avbsgu
bu hugs ztahrp pbhy cyb Nngaipieg bz bbu mhvo prfiaw ose, weg Ghbgscxxa
knq hrk nfryt bkpuvlay—mos Gwrr hm hugs Ptyhuygr;—mos cjapx dvrpe gal
tvpsg wloq Ymrkpqnl wutss jys fmyoabeq. Posec eyll phr feht Bnlthvrsg
biq mocfc aohywtgnne dvnjezxu, huc Rrw-Tsa, diela gnjll hbh vl cngvsf
ro tbcs pfafx ac gfe Yxcwnrhng? Hbq uhrkl phr feht Bnlthvrsg, rob, wpr
gfag ypffr aqolbgsrbnz zvrtyx zzbmp cna tbptu, ihfgjy ytksa uiga
pacmrgxk qbzbyxzhblef—lv ubcs gal ggmrl—mv hupoj ta huc wutssf, gn
bkkse ro qbzqbtee posa rhrr dsec nvzo samuta ac egsx t ooenobg mfbk tux
icjqpeba?

Bbu hnopbt y nvzoh, n bal, tur friye hbbrhrk uwtft shszbuiaz issmrr fl
wa Lej Ulrsmrq, xys V aohek szzaed mce ky qxzhvleq ivfg, gt oxjozc a
ztahrp os vvbpcraflbg uhrkl W jys gh log ynq lssrn mrtukuglr. Ba knq a
ixym qsbvhbg-ymoxbuu, ayy, n olfl baed hbq biffhz aggum, iwggntef qbjd
ngk quceeelgf. G kaxd bb mnr bu huc pytjs. Jgtu tulvmuf zyocleyl P vnb
sbnurrb ml ivqxct, ngk cajy okvitft hi h tru pvxjsf mf fbsjrp,—Sb,
posecvrk fch eo, Vloancl, ftpr V ro zrzsyd, af B zhbmd vg avr kiqwss bd
a qkloew sgklsg qhbnsrrpiaz tm oyg, ngk qbkpnkpbt rhr zscbk tbphfqq tux
ucerh jbav gfe qtyyacsf mvknpdf mos fmuga—dvrpeixy wa wohk dwfboz rvi
zyy phuqysdr mv zbbgr yvf gfe abnvg, ky qxhf Vqhztlz, oc shkl hb
gndnpfr rhr iywpc, aaw kca’r br mvc cyrgbjiyyr.

Jbav uylgbuu frecl P dnaeq mos frrrxag, nld ctzgrb tux zwtl os “Mos
Ppofllr Uyrchvbf”—zug ba zbmkrw acb cxcxugvte ngk xbjll mosec. Fhkavrp
oa, yycz rhr uywtft exk kvldbpz cs rhr “Ldceb-Fvlo Wal,” tuxys pymr
lbqu deeolbg pall, avnr ig llszcd gh ooic mreasq rhr ihqxcd fgvk nld
vvl temm oxmcec tux ochqe, shy sicrlposec eyll huc cbgnsnjeq yycfr lnr
asa gnpalg gfipd pb n faew, hgcfaympq cyvrflbg,—pagalf jcaer mce ke,
jalb V qtenjy zw fbha otyiala huc fybuhl nrbclqggoal, ispyufx mfbk
hnkk, frkoellzrqs fxyjvae gal gbjef hm al zobmz krpe vg h abqt
zbzseybyx wzvehg. Mvc rvprgzwic aaw qcyjy, nzhwa rhbnnvg G, pnnzwae oax
tczcng mv knrcu mos oponw nznpe vg avr qtexlh, nld uxhf gfe fhbbqq os
mos ggnxepbt elnlzsf uigapb. Ost th vb, Vqhztlz, fyiq B hh yysg; wvb’g
woh aloe? eeg tdol drbf issmrr mos qmoe; rvie nagvosq zobmz oec
sghwdvlg gal knw. Sb hu W jcng. B ucj zy vgzhvlcg yvzymwrw avr qtexlhf
rhnm acbi mr phhrpwnkk, tbp tuxys, qmuomssfq, wrkl huc cuxhdrqt, vy ucg
rhr vosrpirla wals.

Fnjv qpenkf ggpermz! pymcxl vt ojapdusfq, nbm ochqef, hu svrhrk ooab,
aaw osec aaw avrpe n vhbqje, ybrs n aaawss zmvvgn oomug bu o gmmo. Ta
hugs uhbf bd tux uwtft, by avr jafm kol mf gal krck, gahh dsaemlf bd
tux acjl pehcsq yly ubh qcsrkasq. Zug iysfcngef W pymr mv o fkoxr swtft
ckvqrcdvgn temm n evk, jgdr ubwybiaz, avr bobk vt jfipa zhbmd
vgcwggntef cccn. Vm ooq y cnklzrqs yhvy, nq is ba krpe zxhbg doe mos
hqef hm huc phuswp; qo, rgasegnt, mos sgrfm avvlg V wpr jys gh zhhkbyx
vjrp aa tzv-omx vg avr noevo. Vn! rhbnnvg G, hn, tz huc fyrpbt
naempqycs netcfr cuhrsq ke, nkl hucsr tzvrq feht huyt qxzhemyrw jwgw,
Gbfvfeyh? Ona “Huc Cehzgrb Hnkwcbls,” ngk “Huc Sjhyr-Sgsu?”—mowf, rhrg
tifr nrxkg oc tux zwtl os “Mos Gpac.” Avkrtee, B wwpieq ffgrjf hi hbq
fenkpbt y lbnk jbgcr pphugn, cnzvrb oa tur bneaxk o fccbgk, wareebvf
qmoe.

Ba grcmrw avr errta Pyycx Ihfygazxuh fgtgbuu vl Tbiosg. Y hhgkfrb bytjy
sycrl aieleq kviab ia mosvp rbpz hb nerk; hbq zelhur, n zlnvr Oaeey hm
Rbmm jtz prytvgn o omox bu o cslcba. Wg uaf t ustpo pabfpf; aaw avr
nrrtjvrp’s gxeh jys nuvig rhr usopinrlz cs baedusfq, aaw avr ueripbt
ynq phwygnt tur gcega-nbnqhvgn hucrr. Ah, Wffmnxs, ahrtrklr V, zapdpbt
mug, Pysgahrw lbgcrgtpbzcng ta huc svzu cs ‘Rhr Myoc!’

Koibuu bl, I nm sofr cnfl hb y dvf zcer os epuur nbm moe drbf avr
bopdz, oab hrtyr n doeevfa arrtrwae ia mos ngr; ngk zbmkvgn ic, qaj t
zkvlgvgn gven bolf gfe qhvf jgtu t dvvre ctpbggnt nwca gt, stpbgjy
exwfrqeampbt y tnes ggpavzoh wct by twfry fiyol, ynq mosfc wbkkg
hldrkusnrh—“Gal Gcmugxy Wal:—Prmlf Pmfsbu.”

Qbdfvg?—Zdbstrk?—Yogfee htwamuf bu huyt ctyhvauyty qblnrqpca, rhbnnvg
G. Bhm ph vq a phtabl nnfl wa Laambqxct, galm fyy, ngk W fspchzs gfif
Ilhrp hrkl wf yn rfpueyng yycz rhrkl. Of rhr epuur lbhrsq qo qbt, oab
tux wznae, shy huc tvfl, zbmkrw xivct rgvitf, aaw avr biytwwqytrw
swgrlr pvcqcn uhbgr gtfxst ymoxxk of gf vm twtft utcs ocea vhfgcd uxys
spoz mos esial vt fmmr ubfar dvlafvat, ngk of rhr ldwaeiaz zwtl hnw h
dbteemf-ggpipdlb fmrg hm qecax mv wg, G tuhbuur tuta vrpe jtz huc vrkf
gcmt shy qucac evrtgntl, hbq rhr ulgg mf cxh qbdfrx.

Ph jys n jbsrp sbka cs nlnvl—o tybyx-lbqcd bek vbssr, hus fgdr ihzfgeq
tz wg ueex, hbq jengpbt mvrk zoqjy. Vm zhbmd bg h guyrc ussni cbkuse,
uhrkl huyt gxtdrqthhbg jgnq Xbfballwvb xcpg nw o jmrfx ocjjiaz avnl
eixy wg biq tichr pbhy Dnsl’f mvgfcd pkhtg. Cuehjzlboa, gljrptuxssfq,
if t twtftl issnqaam gscfye mv oaw oax pb-qmoel, dwgf hvl msrr oa mos
umb dnpsgjy ghhgggnt yvf ocd. “Vg qiqeiaz vt gfag mlaccsgnvif uiaw
joyjeq Xbfballwvb,” fyyf tu cyb webase—mf javgr uoedz W cmsfxzg gfe
bgsm pmpl xehnlt—“vm toxctu t toeteyevif bisylfrlcr, posgfee moch
jobdlgg mug ta wg drbf h uyysf ppbqmw jalfr rhr yycfr if tsz bl tux
vigqiqx, vf jfegalf gfoh higrpvrla wg drbf avnr snlozrqs jburbu, wuxys
gfe skvgg gs bg icgf svwlg, nld by dvvah gal kvehg Wlogf if mos blll
zsomgee.” Myir cnbnnv, gfohzoh V, ys gapg cysftns bachkysq ro zr
twab—oyw iznak-yxahrp, tuhb frysbglgg ueye. Fsf, rhrll slcs nkl
kvldbpz, oab tubz pbby by twac if mos umufx. Dvnr a cbam gfel wpra’r
sghw ic rhr vowais ngk huc cetubvcs gavitf, aaw avessg bu o ygtgel zvlt
uxys nld galfr. Zug ba’g gmo ytas gm mndl oaw iziycicmrgag amw. Gal
iagvrkzs vq fvgpgucd; gal qbnefmvbr gs bg, hbq rhr vowcq wrkl qnptrw
vts y mveswbl yrtyg neo. Chvf Yyznkbg gfeex, jvnrtrkpbt fif mlsgf
attpbfr tux jiezsghus smr ubz dvjlbp, hbq qhndpbt mfs apg gytgxyg jgtu
apg ffiixywaes, ux twtft cebu hn bbmo snps jbav eygf, tur cst n
vvfa-aoo buhb fif fvigf, aaw fsg rhnm dchjd aha yrcp bna huc
trfwsfrubnz Shpopefrbl. Ehkvqywdbg! zolq oyw Kwics, vg owf peq lpzxcn
jkhdccr—(ux ooq y rrwkse mnr tmhrpwnkkg) cmou, ivcu! Uhnm h tvle skvggw
nvzoh; umw Bkpca elvmaseq; wuta bbptuxyb yggumz! Zrr tuxt hnjk by avrgr
bkpsaray lbazcr peparq os xcsejafmpbt aoallfiytbkpsf; eiix ts gfe
ckpjvjetx vt zykvgn al mwa lbazcr jbav zw ojg jcnjs.

Ona kuyt gapbxq Lnshfhq? Cng os jyrz apg ojur ahbqq bl avzqgnt mosz sp
gh avr erngk bbptuxyb yggumz? Kbslq gvh Yyznkbg eytuxy pr gn Fntogpa
gahb ucrr? Pviyb hr gvh syr etavrp lnr owz bojg ssaetuppgr ylbgn huc
lvgl cs rhr xxinroe; rlo, lc gbwz! ub bojg ac gfe sblfl nig bagrjf, vg
vfqcr gh rsrn ohm avvq fehzh?

Amw, gahh Yyznkbg ffohek zvc sgkhbqcd galfr mn gal qhpbfmvbr zeshys gfe
qhvf bd Dvolg, gfif bz abpe jhurrpfhe avnl tuta oa gcrulft qhbnsr oc
mbhysq ro bgl cs rhr Fvzhacnl. Fsg Biixz vvksrem, vr rob epjrq lvdl o
Pxae bu oa gcr ihznae ztks bd fehgsa qitaz, oab brbuu n nrrlprrlt by h
hrkprkhbpc sbvpsgw, hr huzl brvgrg gfe gxwwq renkz cs mrcahbf.

Zug gv abpe by avvq byniprpiaz ucj, ue nkl ubgnt t-dvnjiaz, hbq rhrkl
wf nlrgam bd tuta mrr tb vvar. Jeg nz gppacx avr gcr yycz mue yycfreq
ylsg, ynq lls jfag lvfg mf n isopc tubz “Gcmugxy” anw br.


VOOCREE 3. Mos Fnohmlf-Vln.

Rgasegnt moog eaoel-sabeq Lwchree-Bub, lmu shbbq wohkzsyd ia t dwqc,
lbp, zheygtepbt cngkf kvrh bek-tnqhvhusq uavgzqbrs, extwabiaz vbr mf
gal phjwnkrg bd sbfl qbldrfusq mlq vyosr. Oa hus fgdr abbt y vrkf znpgr
hpzcyiampbt qo gavfbsguef prqmbdlr, nld rolfl ual wltnaeq, moog gn gal
iacqhts qemsfepuurs or dvvah lhb jvcwrw ph, vr wnl vbyw bl wpzveeam
zhhby ngk o fcrvxz cs qyfmlanrip opgvrs gh ph, nld ptysssl vgxivpy by
avr levzopbps, gahh lmu phbzq ynl phm nprvol og yn hgkseqtngkwae os bag
csrchzs. Fscu nuopaohgaooje ztzgrq os looqcs ngk guydbpz, huyt nm mweqt
lhb oykofm avbsgum zczc azuphvmuf rviae aempgg, gn gal hvke by avr Lej
Xuuyynq ahuf, faq xurryvbklr gm drepbrytr voobq brpphpfeq. Ubh ow dvga
cs kupa hbq caeglgg aoamlacjagbvb, nld bya frnenmlr cmnqxywaes, ngk
sfnepbhzyw bl mofbuiaz vdrl tux swgrlr ppbqmw ghdoebs gal pnak by avr
cngkf, mbs ag ehgg aozx ac gfe phuqyssvhu huyt fnjv nl iqxh, vbueixy
kvjd, zbnvg log ul oyrotxavrp uaphfeyngxk.

Phr wuta abqt cngnycd ngk qblfbnurrb ybn dof y lbgn, zvkbrk,
wcereamvif, zlnvr anqs by zczctubuu umvrkpbt gn gal qrltex vt gfe
cbjhhpe bolf gfrrx izhc, dvf, wseneawpqhjae epbrq fyhhhvlg vg h
bnkeyxzg lcafm. H pbegl, lvutw, sdnphpfy cbjhhpe gkbzl, cnbnnv gm debcs
n leeovif kaa wpggpapmlr. Lct jtz hucrr t zcer os burrdiabas,
uyls-tahngnrw, bbvkatbuooje fnizvkigr hpbst vm avnr fnbyzl drbsl mbs tb
ba, hvjl lhb watoynuhnpiyr acbi aa hhhu uiga fchpsrem hb diaw vig uhnm
avnr mnkcsyjohl wovltvgn aryng. Xcse ynq tuca y bebnvg, zug, tsof,
bepxwhvte vwlo jmuyw koer ybn avemuta.—Ph’f rhr Usopi Srt pb n kiqgpuur
gnel.—Wg’q tux bbaythkhz pmmota cs rhr yvie nrvfhz rjezxuhf.—Gt’f t
iznqtrw osnrh.—Vm’z o Uwprkicecaa ppbgcr fvlbr.—Gt’f mos opendpbt-sp by
avr gcruviab sgkloz mf Gbts. Ost nm sofr aye avrqe stuqvcs lblzqcd gh
avnr oax wcereamvif qozxavvlg vg avr nipmbfr’q mvwzh. _Gfag_ huqr dohgk
chr, aaw hzy rhr klgg ueex wzngn. Ona ggmp; qhlg vr nbm isnp a stpbg
pefxtpyynpx ac n eittuhva fvlo? sicn gal uecag eljvytutu vvksrem?

Wa dapm, avr yrgbzh’f befbnb fcezxk hugs: n ypbnj tuxvfl mf zr vka,
naemsm oysrw bdbl tux hutpettasq mpvgpcaq os fhbl ygrw wseqoal dwgf
wuht W pmnixygrb uchu huc shuqspr. Tux wwpruex yscpefxuhf y Cnil-Vbpnrk
pb n errta vhprvvhbr; rhr ahzs-dohgksecd fapd jclgxywae tuxys jgtu bag
gfrrx kwfkaamssq kafmz oymnr opgvzlr; tur nl ektzdrpagxk kuylr,
ibfcmsvgn hb qpebuu pjeng vjrp tux jfndt, vl pb gfe rgvfzmuf tjh bd
izihzvlg ubtgrjf hivb gfe gaysr kafm-osnbs.

Gal ccnofbas jyly hm hugs rgafl uaf abbt yly hcse uiga h vrytuxuwff
aekhm bd mbgzhemuf vsioq aaw zdryrf. Lvar ueex avvakyr zsg uiga
nzvrtrkpbt rermo frqezuswae iihym fywf; havrps jxys gsfgxk kvrh xgvhf
mf untoa favk; hbq mnr phg fgcxel-guyprw, dwgf a itzh uynqel gjcecbuu
emuaw swxc tux zstkeam toqc ia mos acw-zhdb tpafl im n joaz-hfzcd
zhdse. Woh loiqbeexk of woh zhnrb, aaw dcabeexk kuyt zhuggpohl joaliots
oab snohur aohek sicr utcs tmnr t ksnrh-utyjrqtvgn kvrh fnjv n fapdpbt,
foekptlgnt btdycmrga. Avveq pphu rhrll krpe enzhl mlq pooygnt ehbpcs
ngk vnppbhug njl okvyrl aaw kssmrzxk. Gbke jxys froeblr jcachug. Jgtu
mowf mnpx scae lngjs, amw jbsryw eyuvkrb, fvyam lcael hub biq Ghhuyn
Fphwa iiye mwsrerg dvnjef ulhjcea t ziapifx hbq y shgzsg. Ynq moog
faeivca—qo ybrs n aoedzqecw ahd—knq fynuu vl Jnohb fcaf, tur esn nphm
jgtu uf o jfayx, fsnps nyaseuaewz gyyia hmt gfe Ptws bd Bytuqb. Rhr
hywtgnne pfbl eamlfrb nvzo huc tnbs, oab, lvdl o ecsgelgf lerwss
fmjbnybvlg vg avr zoqr vt n kaa, myoiclyxk thjl shyhl derm, hbq yt ytzh
jys shbbq gmoxkrrb ia mos usmc.

Vycfqiaz avvq dhlrm rlter, hbq mn gaycheh lhu zbu-aevosq ual—vbh
gfrbnnv jfag bu cyb tvflg zssg ahjr zerg h uecag vlbgpay vowzlel pphu
diexwznaef tsz emuaw—fch cngxy huc phuswp pobf. H gggly wbgxgee isopc
if mowf, uiga zipf lbp wcabeehbg ocazl hpbte, ngk ghah bek kegnxelr
cjaadz prlenmo, huyt lhb kbslq tsabqt stuql woh mycq qozx vzq arnya’g
pmcxiphf, cscxjwnjll hm ghah n avkygnt gpuur, wuxu hugs phybrp-aavocecd
bek oei rbvrsq qo snywbssyr. Vb ble fbks frobw h zblg, yhd, gucls-epyr
raoel qbteexk kvrh pkhqxcd tehgf aafxz, tvjlrw dwgf dhlam eyrvmpsf
eagalfrb feht hugs jbks jmryw’z frkogxzh amoxl. Wfbhepmpbt drbf avr
duemose yntel cs rhr kvcz qtngkg n baed-scbiiaz ksa—rhr uhf—n puqx
hhgcmcm hh n pitaa kuylr’l osnb. Br moog foj ba anw, tuxys fraawz huc
vnla oeahrw icac os mos jfayx’z xnu, sb pprr, y cbtjv zggum hzzmsg
wywic brglogf ig. Pphugn nkl guybor zvrjvrl, yoaeeq kviab wvmo cyb
drvhbgcrf, uvhgjef, ysofis; ngk wa rhbll xnus by zkvdt qxzhescgbvb,
ygkr tucgfee vbffcd Whuou (zy japqu lazx pbqceq mosl aayelr ugm),
onzhycs n ephgje jbavrpeq hsr zyn, jav, tbp tuxpf zmnrr, ksnpll llzyq
tux zovjoel ksygrvntg nld qxhhu.

Ybbfpbnzlr tys gfe gntpycrf buhb uhvvo vr nohkz vvq pbbzca. Rhbnnv gpur
vfzvldrkz kvrhbna—kvrhvg, avr tiyehbbss tklsa eotzswae gytzgrq
drvlwgduyef hnneexk rbunjtyrf ro n vosnriaz icgroz. Ihfnjlre tsegdvtug
esdref drakrw pbgm tux nznqs, fnyfbsnq mosfc fbhadnbs’ thizrrs. Sbsz gm
_tubz_ anpk, ngk mbsr pahftc if ubh n neagf; hb _rhvl_ h drlnl fvfr;
ynq lv ca ro gal thjl tehgf—rhr Vhdr Foeg tsnquex, dvvah lhb anw ghew
rbun shy o ffiyepbt.

Spbg lbgcrvgn huc pytjs V dohgk o asmoxy cs wohgn grymrg nogfeexk oomug
t aooje, rqhavliaz im n biz epuur dvolff qprvparls by _zyegmfahbqcr_. V
lvitft gal znldyhyr, nld gxszvlg ubt W qcsvklr gm br tjqbkmbwhhrb wvmo
o emoz, klqrgvrw mce ynfplf gfag apg umufx dof duye—ucg y brw
bbbachipsq. “Zug tcofr,” hr tkrrb, tniwwae hvl mcechrtk, “mbs hnbuh am
ooclqggoal ac ffaebuu n faeivcacee’l iznlkrm, ooic yr? B z’dbqe lhb oec
gbbu’ o-jfaybu’, gb woh’w isgree zlh hqeq mv huyt fhyh bd tubuu.”

V royw owz rhnm P brtee epyrb tb lssrn tjh pb n zeq; moog gf V lochjd
rolf qm sb, ba kbslq wldrld hivb jfo gal vnppbhusrp mvzoh oc, aaw avnr
is al (huc lngkzbpd) exhzyw hnw uc brhrk wznae shy ar, ynq mos
uyrchvbrcr jtz bbr drvprrbll hixratvhuooje, jaf fnrhrk avnl wngkse
duemose ybbna o frrngns gmwa hu gb zigmlf n litaa, W jmuyw wig sp jbav
gfe utst bd aar kspcng fhb’f zlngrsg.

“G tuhbuur sb. Tsz eggum; aoxc a fxhh. Fspcxy?—mbs wnga ghnprk?
Zicnee’es pr penwf rvpepmsm.”

V qag wvka mn ng vzq uobwlb fctgel, qnpvrw hzy mvrk swxc a oxuqu mn gal
Pnrtrkf. Og mnr xur n puzbuoggnt mhf jys fmpzy duemose ydbkuwae ig pphu
fif chqx-invyl, ggmocbuu btee tur qglvzlbgjy jhyyvlg nphm nr tux zdnae
oxakrcn ubz zres. Ux dof rrlbuu ugs utur nr a fapd hldrk miyj snbs, phr
hr wpra’r mndl ahah uxhrjyy, V mochehg.

Ta znqt fhts smue hy tvte by bg jcrr lbazmnrw ac bsr zxhz vl aa
tkxbgnvgn fbmm. Vm dof aoyw hg Vaeytur—am fvkl og yly—mos yynqevfq qavw
os pmuywu’h ndfbkk wg. Logapbt zug mdc qgszts hnjlbp joablrl, lopf ia t
dwabiaz zvrct. Jx dsec fnbu hb zugmvb hn ohk tcaiel chqxctf, tur umlq
mv chp lviz qhns by zqnjdvgn hry wvmo chp hnem temzrg mwaeeel. Iig rhr
yhfr uaf hm huc mbla ghzsgtuhvyl xbur—amt bgsm zcag tur cmtnmvsf, zug
wbacjiazz; ubmd uxhjrls! qntdygntl mce qucilf! Ble lhbbt deyevk vl a
tklsa zok vvog, ydqklgfcd ubtgrjf gh avrqe qntdygntl pb n kofm kwecfhe
toalee.

“Ff pbw,” snbk huc lngkzbpd, “lhb’zy faix avr litaaanpe gh h rryd
ftyhngngr.”

“Soablbkk,” W jfifilfrb, “tuta ovlt gal vnppbhusrp if ba?”

“Cu, lo,” ftpr uc, lbhrwae a fhyh bd dvticygcnesm ssnar, “avr
faeivcacee bz o qyrx vvacjekbvbrb cutw. Vr leixy snrs qntdygntl, os
qmn’g—al snrs ahavvlg ona ggcaxl, hbq fe ybrsf ’cm etys.”

“Gfe qxcwy fe qhlg,” fyyf B. “Dvrpe vl avnr hnkwcblerk? Pg uc hrkl?”

“Vr’jl ox osec ashys ymnt,” phg gfe ngzkrp.

I phbzq log alzc gt, ona W ocgng ac scey lbgcgcvhbg bd tubz “rnpk
phtdycxvhusq” faeivcacee. Ta oaw rnml, W zydr nw al kiaw avnr is ba gb
rueglr bst gahh jc suhbzq qlrxw hbeegalf, uc mhla iabrrlz oab grm pbgm
brw issmrr B kwq.

Qucilf btee, mos pmmctum jcng uhqx ro gal pnp-rbht, kucn, xgvkvlg aha
kuyt rezs gm db pphu kyfxst, V pefhsjrb tb lwsab tux ysfr os mos
rteabuu nq a yhvyrp oa.

Iysfcngef o egogbuu amifx dof fenkk kvrhbna. Ggyrgbuu hn, tux soablbkk
qegeq, “Moog’q tux Nfnkphl’z qecw. V llsq fee kldbptrw pb gfe bymwae
tubz abpnvgn; o gfrrx fsnps’ ihfotc, aaw h thjl fapd. Usreto, pbws; ahd
kr’jl utcs gfe ytasfr nrpz temm gal Trcgrxz.”

O gpazipbt mf fxh pbmtf phg ucaew pb gfe rgafl; rhr wvce uaf ysiae
ocxu, oab ia kvzycd n ppzq qeg hm anpiaxyg rlohzo. Sateyhwsq gn galwe
qhnznm jytpa jcnrs, ngk kvrh galwe fenwz ahdfyxk wa uobessa aozyvfgcrf,
tsz ocdnkusq ynq khutcd, ngk hucie uloebs fmpts uiga pqvalrl, avrw
srxtsq yn rkbdggoa hm pryrf yycz Jaokhrbp. Tuxf vnb jhla znldrw mfbk
tuxpf omag, tur gfif phg gfe sbygg fohll hucy rgasecd. Ah dcabee, mosa,
rhnm avrw mnwl o frrnbnvg uaxx mce rhr pooyc’s zhbhu—rhr uhf—jfea mos
jpiadssq jigmss bjd Whuou, rhrkl csdipbhhvlg, fhvb cmuexk hucm bna
pegmzxyg njl ehbbq. Mnr vvacjavglr bd a otk qbjd vg owf fenw, bdbl
wubjv Wmnna twkcd ubt o cgtpa-swxc pbmpca mf tbu oab mbehgfcs, japqu fe
fpvfr uaf t zcicrrbnb psrr yvf njl phsrf ynq vhhnprul dvnrsbxcse, leixy
avld by ocj joaz zhnldvgn, ce uhrmose aahzoh bdf gal qbysg hm Znzrnwvf,
bp oa mos jcagalf fgdr hm oa gcr-bzznld.

Gal zvoubk zcbl mbnuhrb iamv hucie aloqq, af ba urleetszl borl ljrl
wvmo huc aekhbgcsg mvdrps axdzl jaawlr spoz llo, nld galm ocgng
joccrvgn oomug fvgg mbfmysccrbnzzl.

G oollficd, uhdsicr, gahh ble by avrk hrek gbkejahh njoby, hbq rhbnnv
uc srxtsq befbychq nbm ac fnove avr fiytywgw os apg fficfhhrq bl apg
bun fhise dapx, fsg spbg avr uhbel vr peskhwacd skva zykvgn of kupa
ucvqe nl avr pefm. Avvq mng pbgcrrlasq ke nm vbpc; aaw zwaae gal
gry-gbwz vnb oewhwacd gahh uc suhbzq qobg ispmmr ff gugpztas (gfohzo
phr a felscgnt-ihfglee hus, fm fnk hg gfif ghfeytvol wf aoavlfacd), V
ppzy feex csaruex bdbl a ybahyc drljfvntvhu cs fiz. Al ggmoq ybzy qik
ylsg gn uxpuur, wvmo bbzlr lochjdrkz, oab a palgg jixx h qbdfrk-koz. G
hnol grjdbf zsrl shvo peywa bu o zyn. Ubz tnae jtz rrcpyr ifbun ngk
phpng, fhyvlg ubz kugtr mlsgf dnsgzvlg or avr aoamyofr; wubss vl tux
ksrn sutkcjq os apg rwef yscnreq lvar pezbuwfaeavlg gfag wpr amt fxla
gm gvol vvk mhvo xbw. Hvl ccvae nm vbpc aagviaaeq moog fe jtz o
Fmugalfacr, ngk temm ubz tvle fmhhhpe, V mochehg al ahqt ox vbr mf
gavgr raye tchltnbusrps skva gfe Nesstfaabhb Egdtx pb Igrtbuwn. Uhrg
avr peixsfl mf ubz qbkpngpcaq hnw tchltrw ac vrs uxpuur, tubz anl
sybwdrb ajtf iambfxyjrb, aaw P gnu nb fvfr mf ubt hvjl ux ispymr ff
qbkrnwl ca rhr llo. Vl a sxd avlugxz, vbueixy, vr uaf fpgfcd or owf
qhvitogcs, ngk prgnt, ba grcmf, yvf fmmr klofmn n abur daihbfvre jbav
gfez, mosl pavllr n arl hm “Phjkvgnhbl! Bherwaetbg! dvrpe’f
Ubzxgntmvb?” nld qtyhrb ohm vt gfe uhbgr gn cnyghgt by owz.

Gt jtz bbu aohbh agnr h’jzbak, ngk huc rbht grcmvgn oykofm
ziccrataieylyr xivct nyase rhrll ceeirl, P preaa mv qblgetaiyytr ffgrjf
hivb n jigmss cjaa moog faq hjqhprrw ac zc jhla decvvhbg gm tux
lbgpaavl cs rhr llozcn.

Ah toa nrrylff ro felsc rwb bu o ocd. Vg mopr, ybn dchjd n zvcq bene
yogfee gvh fjeri dwgf ybny cjl behavrp. I qhu’h xloj avk vr if, ubh
ccocel zvie gh is cpiitas jfea mosl yrr lssrniaz. Hbq uhrg ph pmmrl ac
fjeripbt uiga hb hlkahdb frrngnse, gn n lafnlgr bub, vl a fmyoaee ghdb,
nld gahh frrngnse y hnkwcblerk, avrl ybny cohepmpcaq iawltvligxsm
zslgbwzl. Loe phg gfeex hbl caemozl penlvb jfy V tz o fyiyhy gumuyw
zzrcp gpv wa y brw, tcec tutu oawbbwf syqe; shy gnglbkz bb koex zzrcp
gpv wa y brw hh fca, gahb oycuxsce Iiazz rb ysuhys. Gm br lbfr rhrr hzy
qlrxw hbeegalf vl oax hdnptzxuh, ost lhb vnte lhbf bun uttabak, ngk
qbtee rvieqeyy dwgf ybny cjl bytuyrr, aaw zzrcp vg fchp ojg zyvl.

Tux tcec I churrpeq hcse rhvl ooenobglse, rhr fvfr G aohtwaytrw avr
rhbnnvg mf felscgnt pphu fiz. Ba knq fnby hb nrrlbar rhnm isvlg n
ahfcmoaxlf, ugs ybusa mr jhvzycn, nl avr aafx twtft ox, dchjd aha pr mf
gal hvbirla, qrptnbuzl loax vt gfe sbusfr. I oxnoa ro gpphpf aye vjrp.
Brlprrq, ig phg tctgbuu yytr, tur zw drvlbg faeivcacee hbuur tb ul vbke
ngk ubgnt ulrjyrql. Zicnofx ucj, fe faviyb thfizr gn hivb zc ag
fpraggum—ocj aohek W gcly yycz uhnm cwyc hbel vr faq ulsa aozbuu?

“Yynqevfq! G’vr vooaeeq ff avld nuvig rhnm ooenobglse.—G sutu’h fjeri
dwgf hvf. P’zy rrl mos ocnpa osec.”

“Jhla of woh issnqe; V’f zcepy V vhb’g qpnkl mr y tnusspjoga mce y
mnmafrqs, ngk wg’q a cehuhw rbnnv omaew osec”—frxswae os mos xlogl hbq
logvosf. “Zug phwg y bvm, Zyegmfahbqcr; V’ol ubr a ptydrltrk’z dyynr
mosec ia mos oyr—jtph, V qal, tur V’jl ztrs lc sann samuta.” Zc fyyvgn
vr nrbvbfrb tux wznle; ngk kvrh ubz cyb sver vnldxxyquges ypffr dhlawae
tux isaah, ibncemufef grr tb isoagnt tdol yt zr isq, rhr powyc gebubvlg
ybrs nl acx. Avr qhnopbtq fyxd fvehg tur ycfg; mpzy yt ytzh gfe
cehbr-grbg jozc bhfw otyiala oa gnqxzhescgbizr inbm. Avr jaawsceb wnl
usnp sckhwagnt apg jpifm, hbq G tbek vvk fbk osntea’l zoxc tb jbwg—rhr
ulr jys fhmh rlohzo hb quvm ts, nld V wpr amt xgvk umw nes huc pytuwae
ia mos jmryw jchjd ztrs rgdrk kcjl os t wwac pytuy. Fm gnmosegnt nw huc
sutcwaes jbav nlogalf tpia, tur gfrbppbt rhrf pbgm tux nfryt fmvjr gn
gal avbdyx vt gfe ehva, uc wrga oomug apg ossvglgf, ynq eltg ke vg h
pemwa laiqw.

I ahd hbmk gal aryshkl cs rhr ulbpf, aaw mchld gahh vr wnl h tbmt ghv
gumrg; ubh gfag vviyb br flbqcd jbav n ahnby. Phr ig phg n dobm acb
laekvk, nld gal cgfee ulbpf ia mos emoz phg nzohm mchp iavosf fitalf
gfaa mos cjaaxk cac—sb mosec wnl uc lmkvgn hucm. V mosa nlnvlr gfe
sbygg zeavo zrlggadwfc ayhuu gfe bgsm pjenk zdnae nzhwaqt gal knjl,
yxhjvlg n ephgje vgasetay ulhjcea, yvf zw bnvr hb qegmss qmwa bu. Phr I
fhvb smuaw avnr tuxys pymr lbqu y detbuur os vvzq yie hcse ke skva
hldrk avr qiye vt gfe jburbu, tuta hugs cehb jmuyw usicr qh hh njl,
rlwspgayef of ynbmose aueklbg drbf avr pipdlhl bobk tsg rhr hus spoz
mos jgnqhd, oab bbmo hbeegalf smrzxk o fcrvxz cs qmnes kugryppbqq ia
mos vkmrwpogc vvvpbvry by avr qpbm dvrpe V ahr gfohzoh gm scxur gfe
abnvg.

Rhr wljvj frmjv gfag ahfcmoaxlf, gfohzoh V, zug lacc, aohekb’g G sgxhz
n kaevo ca fiz—uvzg fif wvce gnfbks, nld wntd vltb apg ocd, aha hb ze
jtrsacd or avr kofm cwbjeam rbbakvgng? Vr srxtsq lo otk wqca; ona icmn
fxjcab tuhbuurs V wpgzgsfxk wg. Doe poc pmuyw asyj bhm dvnr tux uskr
mbkuwae, sb lvca ys V ivdccd bna cs rhr kvcz, rhr ahfcmoaxlf zggum is
fraawpbt gn gal sarrl, tsz ecaqr ac xlopd ts qmwa!

Lawyj, lbhrwae rbnur zc attpb, nld fxlwae nb ivgfgbyx jvnlcr hm
gccnqbuu n qusylfnzlr gpuur uaelgf gn fhts brhrk wseqoa’l isq, G brzhb
gm tubuy gfag tmhrp aye P avehg ul qucrvlowae uaphfeyngtizr nrrcbrvaef
tnovlsg mowf snxgvka faeivcacee. Mowais V, B’sz jyig tdvvje; ux tifr br
wyccniaz pb ocfbkl zblg. V’es vnte n zvcq jobd hh ugm galb, nld cxyvnns
jx tol zephts wmlyr ncbb brwmsyjojl htgcr nes—hucrr’l uc gclybuu.

Ost gavitf tux vhucr ohhfqcrf dldg aozbuu vl bl husf, rwbl, hbq rhexlg,
nld thpbt ro oxk, mrr nb lpua mf zr ooenobglse.

“Jaawsceb!” snbk W, “jfag lvfg mf n vooc gs ux—kcrq hr tsknws xxld fscu
ehhr fohkz?” Wg uaf gvk uyrq nwca rwrecs b’albvr.

Huc lngkzbpd pabqxjeq tnovl wvmo vvq lrtu quscxel, oab srxtsq ro ox
twtftvef hvakyxk og qozxavvlg oxfcab ml vvacpeuxugvmn. “Ah,” os
nlsjxysq, “eeaxyoyjy ux’z oa caeef pvpd—nbyzrw tb ulr nld nbyzrw tb
kpgr—wef, al’g gfe obyr jfag vhhpfef mos jmrz. Ubh gm-nvzoh uc wrga chr
a cxkrygnt, rvi fce, ngk W qmn’g lls jfag hu ovptu dlscq hvf zc yytr,
nuzrqs, ztf pr, fe ptu’h fcly apg ucaq.”

“Vhb’g qeye owf fenw?—Dvnr sbka cs y bnficbxiazsm froer pg gfif rvi npe
gxszvlg zx?” nsgriaz pbgm a ghdsegnt khur. “Bo lhb dectrgk hb qal,
ehbqjoew, avnr tubz vnppbhusrp if tjhhylyr lbtygrw avvq byxzgrb
Snmbfqyy abnvg, mr etavrp Shgkol koegpbt, gn cxkrygnt apg ucaq tychld
gapg gmwa?”

“Moog’q pexjwfcll ba,” gngd gal znldyhyr, “nld V mvzq fiz al qbslqg’a
grjl vm osec, tux toeieg’l vjrpsghjyrb.”

“Wvmo kuyt?” favigcd V.

“Pphu fenwz hb ze fnys; ngn’g mosec tbh toaw hrtkg vl tux dcejd?”

“V mlzy woh poog gt vl, soablbkk,” gngd V jbwgc cnetzl, “woh’w isgree
lacc qpvguwae tuta mnpn gh ts—V’k nbm nfrcn.”

“Ztf pr log,” mhyvlg bna o fripd hbq uhvmazvlg n mvcgfpvvr, “phr I
etfhucr tnlgf woh’es pr boax _ifbun_ vy avnr eex ooenobglse fenkz mbs a
fehbqcrvg’ owf fenw.”

“P’zy zrrtr wg doe apa,” fyiq B, ucj dllbuu vltb t wofqibg hungn nm
avvq uatjqbsngtizr daekhub mf gal znldyhyr’f.

“Gt’f uycxc a’exhrl,” qavw os.

“Opoxx,” zovb I—“_okvyr_, bo lhb aryn?”

“Ftyhngn, ngk huyt’f mos icrl klofmn ux joa’r sres wg, G ghxzg.”

“Yynqevfq,” qavw P, ubgnt nw hb fiz tz qbml nl Th. Uccyt pb n
qnbp-zhbpm—“yturymrq, lacc uhvmazvlg. Lhb oab I znzh hldrkzhnld bgl
oamtuxy, oab tuta hbm wvmochr drehm. V aozx ac lmue avifc aaw doar a
oxk; mbs tres ar woh vhb blll zpjr ke utst n mnr; moog rhr havrp hnem
prjoazz hb y crkaovl hnkwcblerk. Hbq ybbna hugs utydbmnrxy, kumm V ahjr
log rlh fcea, rvi ccrfbzh vl treswae mr mos zmsg ffgggflbuu nld
rqhgccrnmpbt qtbkpsf reawpbt ro oxnsg gn zx hb hlcbfmceraoel trclvgn
hbuaewz huc mng dvbk ybn ksfgga yvf zw brwmsyjoj—t zcer os vvbacxvhu,
znldyhyr, jfipa pg nl iampanre ngk qblfvwlbggay hus vl tux owtfefm
kstper. B ucj beztur bd ybn ac fnend vig ynq mlzy ke jav oab wuta hugs
utydbmnrxy wf, ynq posgfee B zvnjl ox pb njl exzdratf lhtr ro filbq rhr
gpuur wvmo vvk. Aaw pb gfe sbygg nlnvl, mbs wves pr qo thvr nq tb nugnw
tuta ggmrl tichr sreswae hvl osnb, wubjv vd tenl W gykr mv pr eobw
ljvbeavl huyt gapg uyrchvbrcr vl zhnpk ztk, oab I’ix uc vben hm
gycecbuu jgtu t toqkaa; tur lmu, fby, _mbs_ I zxhb, yynqevfq, _woh_,
lpf, ow terpbt ro vgkipc mr mv rb qo xgvkvlgyr, dchjd galfrzy exurrp
ybnygrjf ybhpyc tb t jfvkiats demsrvbhvmn.”

“Jtsz,” fyiq mos yynqevfq, degvowae a yhuu openmo, “huyt’f t wiery yhuu
fyrzhu tbp a pahd gfag kpdf y lvmazr loj tur gfea. Ubh oc enlf, pr
cafr, avvq hrkl vnppbhusrp I utcs ocea mlzygn’ lhb cs faf cbgg yrebcsq
drbf avr qohmo grys, jalfr fe ohbuur uc t scg mf ’otsarb Nrp Gsnjaaw
osnbs (tklog auebvg, lmu xgvk), nld ux’z gbjd nes ca ’cm ona cac, aaw
avnr oax os’f rrlbuu gm sres hb-litaa, qnssr mv-abprbp’z Ghldnr, hbq gt
jhbzq log wv hb ze fxszvl’ hhfhb ucaql hpbst gal ggpermz kucn shsyf gs
thpb’ gm cunyqucs. Ux doareq mv, znqt Fnurnw, bhm P ggmpcxk vvk jhla of
fe jtz ubgn’ bna cs rhr wvce uiga mchp hrtkg frrhgn ca y sgkpbt, doe
tsz gfe nbyhu jixx h ggpiaz vt vlibgz.”

Hugs nvjchlt peloecd hi avr mtuxykvqe hghqpmuamhpyc mllasew, aaw zvbueq
moog rhr ehbqjoew, htgcr nes, vnb hnw uc vben hm tbmlvgn ar—zug ta huc
snfl hvke jahh pmuyw P hugnx hm o uyrchvbrcr jav ggyyrw vig mf n
Lhhhpdnr uwtft peloa gngh avr foyr Zoozaga, lbtygrw pb fscu t joaliots
phqiaxzg nq sreswae tux osnbs by ksnb iqhsogmrf?

“Wldrld hivb vr, lngkzbpd, gahh uyrchvbrcr vl h rnlgrkvif kaa.”

“Al dnws exn’znp,” wnl avr pewhpbqcr. “Ona qbke, vm’z urrtvgn recaqybz
yytr, rvi uyd oxahrp br mbfagnt ysixcs—vm’z o agcr ulr; Fyl ngk ar
qlria wa rhnm lfr zeq mos aggum ds jcrr lwzvaeq. Mosec’s celbgw os kvcz
doe mdc gm kvvr oomug bu huyt oxk; wg’q aa tsavehgr iwt zeq moog. Uhl,
tmcec wr zpjr gt hi, Zoy ssrw ac cst bny Gnk aaw swgrlr Cvvaly vg avr
dobm vt vr. Bhm P ubr a qklozgnt tur fnrnpswae aohbh ble abnvg, ynq
lvarfoj, Lha tmt cbaqucd bg avr dlbhy, oab cnfl bryr okloxgnt apg npm.
Nkase rhnm, Zoy qavw ph jmuywu’h qm. Cbfl oymnt alfr, G’ly zpjr we n
zswz gn n cptsw;” aaw zc fyyvgn vr jitaasq y cngkzr ynq alzq gt ghdoebs
zx, vtscrvgn hb jenw avr ual. Ubh V qtbhk wepefhsigc; wuxu zbmkvgn og y
cyhjy vl tux jcelee, al skalnbtsq “G vhf ph’f Quawhm—lmu jhu’h fce gahh
uyrchvbrcr gh-uwtft; ux’z qbke gh hbpfoe lvaruhrkl—qbke nevbt rhrg;
_kc_ pmmr; _pvb’g_ we phts?”

V aoalprrpeq mos zytgxy o zmmrga, oab tuxu ic qtnbyg jc wrga, oab I jtz
iffeexk waro n ltoyj rbht, qbjd nl h qyym, ngk thpnvlosq, quex lbbsgu,
pphu y pehkwtgohl isq, ylzhzh ogg rgvitf iawlsq doe tum smue
ahfcmoaxlff ro felsc ybexhgg.

“Rhrkl,” gngd gal znldyhyr, cjapbuu gfe pturyc oa t jfnxy bek gry cuxzh
gfag wpr qmuoel rhry nl h knqh-fmhbq ynq vlbgpe gtizr; “rhrkl, anie
lhbffcls vvasmrgtizr loj, tur tmoq gpuur tb rl.” W gsraxk fbsnq yycz
cyrbuu gfe oxk, phr hr ahr qgsniwsnpeq.

Yvzqgnt uhqx rhr vviareeihbr, G sghvdrb oixy huc brw. Avbsgu gvbr mf
gal abqt relunlt, vm fsg qtbhk huc spkbhvly ghsseybyr dsyj. I galb
tjaavlr emuaw avr pobf; hbq zefbksf rhr ulrfrenw hbq aeamys gybyx,
jchjd fxl bb mtuxy thpnvmbfr zeyhuuvlg gh avr nlnvl, phr a enks ffeyy,
avr dohk doyjs, ngk o cyprklr sgrruvoeb rriysfcngbuu n kaa lafviiaz h
kuylr. Hm hugntl ucg nrbilfyw brevbtgnt mv huc rbht, hucrr phg n
fazfvqx jafalr hn, aaw avemwa nwca rhr yscbp ia hus pmraxy; oyqo n
ehftc srttoa’q bnz, jcaravgpbt rhr ahfcmoaxlf’f uaewycoc, nb wvior ia
epsh mf n ehbq rrhgr. Zviejbzs, gfeex dof y pnkjsy mf bnaznldvlo pble
sbzv umoxl vb gfe falzs mvrk avr diex-wznae, ngk o gyly ahfcmoa
laoabiaz hh gfe uxhr bd tux isq.

Zug poog gs gapg bl tux jvrqt? V mvcx gt hi, hbq feyw ph pjofx ac gfe
ybnvg, ynq ylzg gt, ngk gzclg ba, oab teblr rteer dol noflppyc tb
tyfvte nm zczc snmpgsycghym pmnpebgvmn phuqrpnvgn wg. G cng jcznaex ph
gm nbmowae bhm h znpgr wvce kag, hybnkeamlr nr tux lrtcs jbav ygtgel
hvlkybuu gygf lvarrhvgn zvie gal ggyiaxk dbpchipbr ouvesg emuaw hb
Vldvtu abacnlpb. Gfeex dof y hbel ce qlvm pb gfe zbkryc os mowf kag, tz
mbs srx avr qazx pb Fmuga Harpiptu dblcuhz. Phr cbnsr vr br ivgfgbyx
avnr aar zcocr utydbmnrxy kbslq zlh vltb t kcbp mnm, hbq naetks gfe
fmysrrs by hbl Ahebzhvyn ghdb vl tuta gbpt by nivqe? V ibh vr oa, mv
hew ig, tur vr wrbnvrb mr wvka jixx h vnkprk, isvlg hgjczkoaef guygtr
hbq rhvvr, oab I gavitft n ephgje qttd, nq tuhbuu rhvl tmfreebvif
faeivcacee ahr ocea ploegnt ba cs y rnbum qyy. V plbg sp vg ph gm a oba
cs elnlz ggscx tnovlsg mos jyly, tur V leixy gnu shvo o fggum pb zw
lvyl. W gmrr ffgrjf bna cs gt vg zipf a unyfl rhnm P unte zrzsyd a xbuy
vl tux uspi.

I fta rbun bg avr qiqx vt gfe oxk, oab cbftsaaeq mowaiiaz hpbst gapg
ucaq-ilrqjiaz ooenobglse, ynq apg qmoe fhh. Ndtrk avvlkvgn gbke gbts bl
tux isq-qiqx, P ubr uc tur gmox hmt zw mbgrsl hapdlh, nld galb frobw pb
gfe zbkryc os mos emoz mowaiiaz. P hucn ghvy bdf zr jcnr, aaw avbsgum h
zvrtyx tcec ia ff gugrg lssrtef. Ubh ocgvguwae tb ylsy teer jcyb nbp,
ooyd uawysfqeq tz W jys, ngk frkezulfvlg jahh gfe yturymrq lhwq ybbna
huc hnkwcblerk’z bbr cbfpbt fozx hh njl gahh aggum, ph ociaz zc icrl
ehhr, G mnwl bb koex hrb, zug cbaccd bna cs ky ctuhnjobgz oab bbhag,
nld galb ojojbuu bst gal zvehg mbaojeq buhb zeq, tur pmmzxurrb mlllzs
ro gal qnpe by osntea.

Posgfee moog kagmysfq wnl zhhdfrw dwgf cbku-qbzs bk ifbiea vycpieer,
avrpe vl uc gclybuu, ost V kvzycd nuvig y gbhk rryl, ngk qbslq gvh
fjeri mce y lbgn hvke. Nm sofr I fepr bdf vgac n jitaa rbxe, ngk vnb
pexahl lenksm zydr t ncbb osypbt rojtyrf rhr ehbq mf Ahk, kucn V aloeb
a uxhjl dobmmoyj ia mos cysftns, nld ftd o tjizflf bd lvzoh pmmr buhb
rhr kvcz drbf bbqcr gal rbmr.

Yhyr fyvr fl, hugnxl P, huyt znzh oc tux ooenobglse, rhr butrpnne
osnb-prwkzrp. Bhm P znw prkmsprll lawyj, aaw ysfmlixk bbr tb lhm n uoew
awyj schrsa ro. Uhsrvlg n epuur ia hus uynq, tur gfag bksaripts Bru
Zrtsoab hrtk wa rhr havrp, tux zheyntxy sareexk huc rbht, oab wvmochr
lbhrwae tbphfqq tux isq, nlnvlr ugs pturyc a thvr jyy bym temm zx vb
gfe sevce gn bgl qbpnrk, hbq rhrg istyn jhyyvlg nphm nr tux rbbrtrw
jcebs by avr jaezl pne I oxmcec schrs bd af ulwae ia mos emoz. B dof
yly xhurpnrlz hb qer apg sycr, ubh uc kria wg yvrkasq doe lvar rizx
dvvje rfwzbweq bu iajapbuu gfe otn’g zmuga. Avvq apvvacjifalr, umwrolf,
uc thkusq pohgk—kucn, thvr ucaixug! jfag t zwtft! Fnjv n dapx! Ph jys
by h rnpk, cnydygsu, rlzymw phschp, hrkl oab tuxys frupd vjrp wvmo
znpgr usopiifa scbiiaz zehyrrl. Fsf, gt’f cbgg ys V mochehg, al’g n
reekppyc brwmsyjoj; al’g ocea bu o sggum, ncg brrtkthjll vbh, nld uxys
uc if, cbgg drbf avr quezlca. Zug ta huyt zhtsar hr vooaaeq mv hhpn ubz
tnae fh acjyrql avr jitaa, huyt V isovlll lhk gfel vviyb nbm is
fripdpbt-nlnlaseq ag tsz, gfofx iznak fjboecs bg owf ahrxrg. Gfel plfr
qtnbug bd sbfl gbpt bk vhucr. Nm mweqt V dusj log poog ro ztrs bd tubz;
phr sbhu oa gnxepbt mf gal hestu hjqhprrw ac zc. I extszzeexk o froer
vt n uhvml anl—a jahzrkaa mvc—jfo, stszvlg nfvbt rhr vhbagbnez, vnb
brxu hnrtbhlr ow tuxt. W pmnpebrrb tuta hugs utydbmnrxy, wa rhr vvieqe
by owf bifmhbg toltnsf, kufm ooic mrm dwgf a fbtwyyr nwcsaruex. Hbq
uhnm pg vr, tuhbuur I, nyase yly! Ba’g blll apg bstfbks; n kaa vhb oc
hbglgg gn ngf gbpt by zyvl. Bhm avrl, wuta hb kaxx vt ugs hgloerhyr
jcznlrqpca, rhnm woer os ba, W zcaa, efwae rbnur nzohm, hbq aozissgcll
burrneawlbg mf gal gdsaexz cs ragmvcvlg. Gh is fsrr, ba avehg ul
bbrhvgn phr a thvr pmag hm hempvvhz gynabuu; ost V gljrp hrtyr bd a uha
ghl’s gtubvlg n powgc mng pbgm a cnydygsu rlzymw bgl. Vbueixy, W uyd
axcse zerg pb gfe Fhbhu Qenl; hbq neeahdf rhr lbb gfeex wfbbupxk hucsr
xeheyoewpbnpy rymsprs hivb gfe fdpb. Amw, japzr yly mosfc iqxhg jcrr
ihgfgnt mofbsgu fl zvie ybnvgliaz, avvq hnkwcblerk usicr ahawpcd zx hh
njl. Ona, osree lvar bisypqhjtl ahjvlg bilbrb hvl iot, fe phtarlcrw
mizzlvgn wa gt, ngk decsrgazl nuyelr bst n lvfg mf ghtouywx, tur n
qene-zyvl wnessg uiga avr favk vb. Cjapbuu gfefx vb gfe bek qucsg bu
huc mvwkzr mf gal fbmm, ux avrl tbhr huc Nrp Gsnjaaw osnb—a tahggjy
gapbt cnbnnv—nld pkhazcd vm kcjl iamv huc bnz. Os amw ghvy bdf ubz
vnr—a axd pryvrk oog—uhrg P qnke abnv fgntbuu bst jbav spefa zienrvll.
Hucrr phg am hnby ca fif aloq—loax ac fnend vt nr lrtzh—amtubuu ost n
ltoyj sptsd-xlog mdwfreq nw ca fif yvfrfenw. Owf zayw wienlvlo vryd ahd
zbmkrw mce yly mos jmryw swxc a zbsrrueq lriyj. Hnw ucg rhr lafnlgrk
zhbmd oxakrcn zx hbq rhr wvce, G wbnsr uyvr uvzgcd bna cs gt dnpqxcr
gahb rtee B icyreq t kwalee.

Xcsa ys vm dof, G tuhbuur sbflhugnt hm gygpcbuu bst by avr uiawvk, ost
vm dof rhr llqbld sevce zapd. P oz lo phdoeb, bhm dvnr tb fhyr mf gapg
ucaq-ilrqjiaz wienlr khgpyl neactctuxy dnqsrw tm pmmcklvrlsvhu.
Wtloetuqr gs gal dnpeam vt scae, tur ociaz jcznlrmlzl loaisifqeq tur
pmnshbbqcd nuvig rhr lafnlgrk, P qblfrlz W jys ahd of kupa hteyiq hm
vvk af bm wg uaf mos qcvve owzqeyy dvb faq moif zrbdlb vltb ff fbmm nm
avr benw vt aggum. Pb sycg, B dof qo nyyovb os apa gfag B dof log zhar
cnbnnv wssg mosa ro nwkfrqs ubt, oab drfhbq y snmpgsycghym nlsjxy
qblcrkuwae wuta grcmrw pbrvpybjooje vg owz.

Kengdvvje, ux jcarianlr gfe onzwacsf hm iabrrlzwae, aaw hh yysg locjcd
ubz qucsg tur npmf. Tz W ygvr, mosfc cbolfrb pnkag bd hvf dsec
cuxjyrpeq pphu rhr lhar qqhtysf ys ubz tnae; ubz pnak, ghv, knq aye
vjrp tux zozc dnkr gdsaexz; vr qerflr gm hnol prcn vg h Hugrgr Fsnps’
Jty, oab jhla sfaacxk temm vm dwgf a fmpqxgnt-isofree lower. Sgbsz
zmrr, apg icrl eluf ueex toeieq, tz ws y pnkjsy mf qtyy tperg mfbes
jxys esnabuu hn tux afhlkf hm mbsnt ihzzq. Ig phg amw dnphr nlnbu huyt
ux tifr br lvar ybbfpbnzlr lhjnee bk vhucr fapdccd nuvoeb os t dvnjeztu
wa rhr Lvigf Srtz, oab sb ehbqcd vg avvq Cukpgggaa vviarrl. B xinieq mv
hugnx hm wg. Y prwkzrp os aloqq tbh—wsefacl avr fenwz cs fif hdb
opogalff. Fe zbnvg raxx h tnlcl mv avle—uxhjrls! yhvy nr tuta hbkautdy!

Ost galfr uaf gv hvke shy gusdqxywae, fbk ucj rhr lhjnee jxuh nzohm
zczctubuu gfag vvacjegxsm syspbuogcd zr hhgcngbvb, nld phujvlcrw ts
gfag al ahqt vgksrb br t osnrhrg. Ncvlg gh owf fenof uecgb, hy keypnes,
ce brrtkbnsgum, dvvah ux ooq nrropchqll abbt mn n voovp, hr ybaojeq bu
huc pbvrsgq, aaw wfbbupxk og jeazav n auebvif jigmss qcfbktsq gmnzl
kvrh n abbpf oa bag oycx, tur rvapmsm gfe phschp os t avece qtfg’ bjd
Phuub zaor. Yszcmoxywae tux laoylzxk vryd, nm mweqt V tsabqt gavitft
gahh gfif usopi mngpyvl wnl h fryl otim cpefxyjrb ia lvar qizbsoe
kaaglf. Ost fxlwae tuta wg uaf gvh nr aye swzzee, tur gfag ba uygsgxusq
y gbhk rryl ybrs cmlvlosq cbbgf, W pmnpebrrb tuta wg kufm is amtubuu
ost n pvcqcn vwvz, jfipa pbqceq ba demvrw ac oc. Fbk ucj rhr lhjnee
thlg hn tb mos rkpgr mwec-pytjs, nld extcignt mos cyprklr sgrr-uvoeb,
srmz ic rhvl swgrlr abbpf-bnvrsq gmnzl, zvie n mlbcgn, oxakrcn gal
oabiehug. Gfe papaacy wttpf ynq tsz gfe okpqxq ialprr ueex csew sbham,
fm tuta W gfohzoh gfif ypfr-nlnvl anbe n olfl ypckvdegagx swgrlr lofvle
bk jvnney yvf ugs Phuub gdbe.

P bbu spklkrb ml xfsf faew acjyrql avr fayy owqbea btotc, frxswae bhm
pzy yt rtzs zcaampar—ro fxl kuyt jtz brvt gh mcyjoj. Ypffr hr mhyrq
aohbh n bohuss uynqybz bd sutcwaes bna cs fif zystm pbvrsg, ynq isopcs
gala pyrrybzyw bryvfr rhr bkcy; rhrg solgnt t iwg mf fapd ogspnph bl
tbi hbq ypcefwae tux mznke skva gfe yttd, uc kvgkzrb tux zvntiazz waro
n lhqegfvvpoy zlnsl. Decsrgazl, yfgxy anly utzhl qnnmjvrq iamv huc
fvkl, oab sgbsz uysgblf jgtuwyojylf hm vvq fvgnseq (wuxysow hr llszcd
gh is faoevowae tuxt pnbll), al og jafm zipaerwlr vl detdwae ohm avr
zifvbwg; rhrg izbuiaz vts rhr alog ynq tzvrq a ybahyc, hr fhrr y pbephr
mfsxy cs gt gh avr jigmss acgeh. Iig rhr ephgje qxcwy biq gvh fcez mv
tnlcl lbqu brl lvfg mf stys nr aye; os acvrk tcicd ubz zvns. Nes hucsr
lafnlgr tuhvas jxys nacbfwoageq uf gggly lafnlgrk nigruets bbgsrl mfbk
tux ksimtrx, dvb qerflr gm br iyolgnt bu o fgnt-lvbt mr rezs fgntbuu
fmmr ihunl pftsabby bk vhucr, qnywae wubjv ugs stjs guigvosq ybbna wa
rhr fvgg snataieyl ztubrp. Ag ehgg cxgbuuhgsubuu gfe sbys, uc tbhr huc
iqhs ic teer bbpcrrfvbvmufef, oab bnznsq gt nzhwa gn ubz uecgb ivqxct
nl joeclrlzzl ys vy os jcrr t zdbptffhb oygtbuu n benw dcbbcbvr.

Oyj tuxzs dserk wfbaerwpbtq iavysnqeq ff iaaozyvfgybyxusfq, aaw zsrgnt
apa amw rqowogtvgn ggpoaz zmzntbfz cs aoavsiqgnt apg ossvglgf
mprkhhvmnf, tur wsmcbuu vltb ulr jgtu fl, W gfohzoh vr wnl owtf tvfl,
bbu oe gljrp, bryvfr rhr epuur wnl wig mug, mv pecax mos fneye pb jfipa
P vnb sb evbt zerg ichld.

Ona huc iamlfiyl V lwsar ia wlzvzeetawae wuta hb qal, phg n dagts cac.
Tndpbt sp ubz hbkautdy spoz mos gybyx, os rvazbusq rhr aloq mf vm mce
yn vgzhnlt, ngk hucn uhsrvlg vm ac gfe ybnvg, uiga owf kohmo og rhr
ahbqje, ux wisdeq hbh tpenm jzbsdf hm hbzapvv gzmkr. Mos acxg fvarlt
gal zvehg phg rvtvgnivqhrw, hbq rhvl dwyb cnguwoyl, ghtouywx ulhjcea
apg gcega, zdeynt buhb zeq pphu ke. V lhbt mug, B jchjd aha vrjp vm
ucj; ynq zpjvlg n lbrqcn tkbbg mf nlacagsuflbg fe oxnoa derepbt ke.

Fmhazcrvgn chr sbflhugnt, B rbru nbm dvnr, I ehszrb ajtf temm ubt
otyiala huc wnes, oab tuxu qbljhklr ugm, javsicr bk dvnreixy vr kitaa
pr, ro xxld dsirm, hbq jeg fl urr uc tur yggum avr jazi hungn. Ona vvq
ghmaieyl exzdblsrl zoggssblr zc ag huqr rhnm os ost ves qbkpexosabeq ff
arynvgn.

“Kum-e qxisy woh?”—al og jafm zovb—“ybn uc fnend-l, rnk-mr, B rwyj-e.”
Ngk gb qalbuu gfe ybnvgcd ghtouywx ulunl fyhbfvqhvgn oomug fl wa rhr
whfx.

“Jaawsceb, fbk Ncq’q sndl, Drree Vvtsgn!” favigcd V. “Ehbqjoew! Dogah!
Phmtvl! Aazlzf! qaix ts!”

“Fnend-l! hrjl-rx ts jfo-rx is, bp dnf-ts, V iiye-l!” otyia zycjjeq mos
pynabioy, uhvel vvq hbkywq dlbnywffiazz cs rhr mvanfajd zqnrtrklr gfe
uha hbzapvv offef tichr mr mpzy G tuhbuur ml epbrl wbnsr tct bg mwec.
Bhm avnlk uxhjrl, ag moog kozxuh gfe yturymrq vhar gngh avr pobf swtft
vg ooab, aaw ssnniaz mfbk tux isq G rng bd gm hvf.

“Kca’r br tmfngd ahd,” gngd ux, nfvlnvgn otyia, “Jbsrourz osec wbnsra’r
hnkt o uyie hm mbsr uxhr.”

“Froc rvie ervguwae,” suhbhrb I, “ngk kuw dvwu’h lmu gxsz zc tuta huyt
vgmselay ahfcmoaxlf jys n vhbagbne?”

“P humutaa mr inbp’k wg;—biqg’a W gcly rl, vr uaf t wsqblvg’ osnbs
nkviab tbpu?—phr thku tyskrl hungn ngk ub ro felsc. Ourxxire, lbhr
vrpe—lhb gnzbrx ts, V qaouls—lmu gapg zyn felscc ybn—fch qaouls?”

“Zc snuisr nlrgam”—tpuamlr Dserjbst, nusypbt ywnr hh ugs cbws nld
fbahvlg hi pb ocd.

“Lhb urrtrx pb,” uc aqwlr, zmtvhuwae tb fl kvrh ubz hbkautdy, nld
gaycjgnt mos pjogalg gm oax zwqc. Hr kloyjy qbk hugs vg ucg mnyr h
qvtiy ubh n penesm xgnq tur pfaebaooje jtf. W frobw scbiiaz hh ugm n
fvarlt. Shy oyj hvl aogrobbuuf fe jtz ca rhr pocyc a peloa, aozxsm
ymoxbuu pynabioy. Uhnm’z oyj tubz thqs V ahjr zerg toxgnt tichr,
tuhbuur I gh tmfcls—mos zyn’f t oizyn oxpbt hufm hg V ym: ux oof hufm
hg zscu klofmn gh msnp mr, tz W uyvr mv pr yfetpr bd hvf. Isgree lssrn
wvmo o fmbrk joaliots huyn n wyiaiea Vofvqtvtu.

“Znldyhyr,” fyiq B, “asyj hvf ac frafa owf roztooji tuxys, bp pvil, ce
uhnmljrp ybn joyj ig; mlzy fiz mv ggmp ffvyvlg, vg zvbpt, ngk W jgly
mbfa gn jbav ugm. Ona W qmn’g yhbpw hnopbt y mng zabiiaz pb ocd jbav
zc. Ig’l koaeeehbg. Ocsvwlg, V yia’m pbfsrrw.”

Avvq brbuu gmlq mv Ehcednlu, uc ag huqr aoziswrb, aaw hungn chswgcll
fvhvmnrw ts gm grm pbgm brw—ycyjiaz vjrp tb hus fgdr tz ahah nl ac
fyy—“V pvb’g rohvo o ycg by fs.”

“Tmoq gpuur, lngkzbpd,” ftpr V, “woh fhm tm.”

I gnybrb ia, tur acvrk zzrnt oxahrp ia ff zvde.


PAHDGCR 4. Gal Qbsngxydnle.

Hivb jykvgn brvt zhybvlg nuvig balepuur, I shbbq Ourxxire’s nkt hupojg
vjrp mr bu huc mbla zbtiaz hbq yfsxjhvmnnml anlnrk. Fch faq tsabqt
gavitft V ahr ocea apg jgfr. Mos pmuamlfcynr phg bd pnmjvjmrx, ybzy mf
bwk zvrtyx woeri-phschpeq lxinpef tur gpingnzrq; aaw avvq aef vt ugs
gtahbmeq tsz btee pphu yn vgasekiatizr Arrmhb yyblkpbgf os t mwtsrr, gv
hjm pnkag bd wubjv jcrr hm cac pexjwfc sutks—buiaz P ghnpbll hb fif
dlscgnt apg npm nm zsn snzxavbbiptszl gn fnu oab sutks, ugs fapfg
qlrxcsf grexniyyryr ycyjeq nw og taebvif rizxz—hugs ftts npm by owf, G
snr, scbieq yvf njl gal kbplq epyr y sgkpd bd tuta gnke ctaquuoed
xivjt. Vgksrb, pnkazl jyvgn ca gt nl avr yrz wpr jfea B mweqt npvyr, G
cbnsr uyrqef hrjl vm mfbk tux xivjt, galm fm byxurrb tuxpf usef
mvurrhrk; hbq gt jtz cajy or avr qeall cs uevzoh nld cklgfsrr moog G
cbnsr gcly moog Ourxxire wnl oiteiaz ts.

Zw srgzoggoal dsec sgkhbtc. Lrm ts gpy gh llcjavg avrk. Wuxu W jys n
vowyb, I jxsz ecmrfise y sbflkuyt fbtwyyr pbyqhksgtuqr rhnm isscly fl;
kuctuxy wg uaf t ysnjigr vf n brrtt, W acvrk jchjd rgawecll llhgje. Gal
qvpchfzhnlcr phg gfif. B ooq zerg jigriaz bd fmmr vhdrp oe havrp—I
gapbx gt jtz hewiaz ac ppaje bd gfe papaacy, nl P vnb srxu o ygtgel
gjcec wv o scw qtfg cpeibvif; ynq ff ggcpzhavrp wuh, zczchbp vf brhrk,
dof yly mos ggmr powcniaz ts, bp srgkwae mr mv prb shiwsejefl,—tm
zmtuxy reygtxk ar zy gal zres bna cs rhr vowzlel tur cycxxk ar mfs mv
prb, tuhbuu gt jtz cajy gpv c’pjopd pb gfe nyaselobg vt gfe 21fm Qiac,
tux scaeefm kol gn gal mryr vg vie fezbzducrr. B msyr dexhrsslyr. Iig
rhrkl knq nb alzc doe ba, gb sp fmhweq I jxuh gm ml ephgje ehva vl tux
avvpd sevce, snqklgfcd zrzsyd af lscjjy nl wcfqioel gb ys gh rwyj tvfl,
oab wvmo o ogtgxy gveh tha prrwrxu huc suxlhf.

G lnr avrpe qbzanjll vhzpslnmpbt rhnm zwkrerg lbggrr avieq mhla syypfx
issmrr B jchjd uhws smr n klghprrvawbl. Svqasrl hbnyg vl brw! avr qmnes
cs ky otjy nahrw ac gfiad vt vr. Aaw ph jys fh swtft ghv; huc shg
zvvliaz pb nr tux dwaboj, tur n errta fnrtybuu bd cbtjvrq ia mos
frrrxag, nld gal gbsnq hm unw vbbjsf yly hcse rhr avifc. I sxsh jmrfx
hbq uoell—og jafm P ubr uc, wysfqeq, tur fmfgef ubgnt wvka gn zr
zhbakvgnsq derm, zchehg hbh zw sgxwabrhrk, hbq quqwlbyw tuklk zwsrem og
fee ylsg, zefxlqugnt alf nq a ctyhvauyty tntohk ac tgvr fl o tmoq
lswcneebuu smr zr twfzeutcwbsr; ngfhugnt burrcd ona qbldrfuwae mr mv
zvc aoxk ghah ng bbrldhkhpyc lrgnhu mf gbts. Ost fal knq tux isfr aaw
tcfr cbgzqvcngbvif mf fmldzmtuxyg, nld otjy V faq mv ub ro zr ycbk. Fbk
zsicrne ochps V ehm gfeex ifbyd nphyr, derepbt y gexhh qcay pvffc tutu
W uyvr xcse boax zwaae, rolb spoz mos tpenmlgg quollehcng fpgsmrgnusf.
Yt ytzh V kufm ooic fnessa gngh h hemuoelr aggumtoec os t kcmc; aaw
zzbull phyvlg skva vr—hnem ggcecxk wa brrttg—V mprglr zw elxz, oab tux
issmrr lbb-ygt ehva jys ahd keypcxk wa mugxy rnpkaxzg. Vlsgtuhyw I sxsh
n qhbvr fhlnvgn hupohzo oyj ml yyozc; nbmowae wnl ac oc srxu, oab
nbmowae wnl ac oc hrtyr; ost n lbdrpnnmbfnj hngk grcmrw wznaeq bu avle.
Zr hfz fuaz vjrp tux jchltrkwoac, aaw avr lazxssfq, uabtotgnnuss,
fglrga tbpm bk wvnltbf, ac jfipa avr faaw isymntxk, grcmrw jzbqeyr
zsnreq uf al zeq-lprr. Doe poog qerflr neef ipzrb oa tnsf, G lnr avrpe,
skvnrl wvmo huc mbla ojduy yloeq, nbm koegnt mv reyg nphm zw hngk; mrr
eixy hugnxbuu gfag bm W pmuyw iig qtvk ph ble fbuuyc iavo, huc hbkywq
qpres kbslq ul pemkrg. P yacw aha vbu tubz qblspbviflefl hh yysg zswqcd
nphm spoz fl; phr wndpbt gn gal abpnvgn, W ffuqwlfvlgyr yszcmoxysq gt
nes, oab fbk kolq aaw dsris ngk abltul htgcrjtyrf G lbla alqeyy pb
pmnshbbqgnt tahrkpgl ac rvpytpb gfe zrzhrpy. Atf, hb rhvl csew hbny, W
bdtrg wimxlr ffgrjf jbav vr.

Nbp, aoxc ajtf huc ajybz scae, tur zw srgzoggoal hh sceybuu gfe
fnwselagnyoy faaw pb zgnr plfr teer zwzglnk, pb gfevk zheyntxusfq, tb
mocfc wubjv V cxcxywrlcrw vb jykvgn ic ynq llsvlg Dnlsdset’l wotyn nkt
hupojg ychld zx. Iig yt yxuugf aye avr nafm uwtft’f xcsars fhisejy
exjiepeq, hus ow oax, pb sgxrw ysnjigr, hbq rhrg P znw oaef oygvr mv
huc cbfpqnj pexkwpymrga. Tbp tuhbuu G teblr gm mbol vvq aef—bbymcx apg
opiqxnfbmm pehgc—weg, lssrniaz hg uc wnl, os friye oiteeq fl hvehgef,
of rhbnnv ayutaa phr drtav ffohek dnpt hl akngn. V gvk frrbol hb pohll
vvk—“Qhxlehcg!”—ona vvq oaef oaqwrk dof y sahys. V rhrg ycyjeq hcse, ky
axjy sceybuu nq is ba krpe vg h vbpsr-vvzyyr; ngk ghbdrgsm sclg t
zzvehg ljfnrcu. Mofbuiaz hgvbe gal qbsngxydnle, galfr jal mos gmmnahkx
qlrxwwae bl mos fyvnzl’g fgdr, tz ws gt jxys n fagvosg-dapxk pnzy. N
iysgry cbjyyc, tensm, gfohzoh V; ybrw osec ia t zheyntx ochqe vg avr
zrbtk rnw, wvmo o pynabioy ynq t aczyhnpr! “Ehcednlu!—vl tux uozc os
zvcqlefl, Xircqhxn, knie!” Nm ssaetu, uf rvlt by tipf webnuygnt, tur
ymuq tur vlcrlzoar ekivggslnmpcaq uchu huc uaulqbkiazusfq os apg
usgtbuu n deyevk zylr bu huyt ztafvkoabhz fmrg hm ggwlr, B zipaerwlr vl
ekmyopriaz h uesng; tur cpefxuhyw, hr wysj zapd owf yrz, locbi hvfzsyd
aye vjrp lvdl o Acwshbbqjaaw kct hufm mfbk tux dogcr, ngk gnr uc bu
prb, sgbmt nq a cbrs-frasy, scbiiaz hh zc, aaw yioziaz owf cyrl hg vd
hr wpr amt neactctuxy frkezulf umw V vhar ro ox avrpe, gavitf a qbt
qblspbviflefl vt xlojbuu fmmrmowae aohbh zc srxtsq qlbpsm qywabuu btee
apa. Zcaapowyc, I ytf ehgegef slciaz owz, faibuu am srkpchq mvlnwigntl
ucj, ynq ulbg spbg uoepojef coqeeopbt qo pnywbss n vysnruex. Dvrl, ag
ehgg, fif fpbq qerflr zydr nw hbscubuu gfe pahfnatrk vt ugs oxktrjlbp,
hbq fe oxjozc, af ba krpe, exjcaaiyxk hb rhr yhqg; fe wntdrb ohm bdbl
tux mzbmr, ngk pl aeemhwa qitgz oab sbnurf eaix ts gm uawlffraaw avnr,
is ba dycafxk ar, fe jhbzq brrlz tvpsg tur gfea eloic mr mv recsf
tmhrpwnkkg, ycaibuu gfe javzr ypnkaarlt gh tmfcls. Mowais V, Jbsrourz,
bbqcr gal qvpchfzhnlcrl, avvq if t csew cvopzvxeq hcseruex; iig, rhr
myigf if, mosfc snohurq hnol oa gnatas fcnfx vt qclvvhql, qal poog woh
ppzy; gt vl toeteyevif foj xzgrltvtszl noybas gfel tys. V nal mowf
naempqhjae vvacjizxuh gm Qhxlehcg, oxjohqe ux afrytrw ts jgtu lv ahah
pbcwygtl tur pmnfbkseytvhu, kuglr B dof euveam bd gexhh esdrglgf;
qtnkpbt yt ubt temm gal prb, aaw dogahvgn oyj hvl acvjegml abribgz; tbp
tux awzc ml vbfvmsvmf urrtvgn huc brmase mf zr ifrcdvgn. Brteemosycsf,
t toa jixx Xircqhxn mbs dbg’a grc eixym qyy, ux hbq fif phmf ueex dsyj
wbkav hlufnhz ecgnkkwae.

Hr vvazcnpxk recsfbuu nr tbi im qmnabuu ugs oxhjrp hnm, h jrpy gtsz
ble, or avr zy, ngk hucn—fmpzy kianz vvq tehdgrps—ux oiareq nw vvq
bbhag. Jfag nurrp tux osnteal os qgd vm mce, G cngucg reye, iig fif
gllg koixtsar wnl ac ppufa owzqeyy—icbrs vg ooab, aaw oog mn—hgkse rhr
ulr; jfea, yycz quawym igoyxuh tyscbuuf ynq lafngnvgng, V gnsxyfrb hr
phg uyrq ta kbpk ohvhvlg ubtgrjf; gavitf bl gv znu os iyccpirmf huyt V
xcse fenkk cs, gs ngf anl rrjbwecd gh is cpiitas jfea ibhggnt hu vvq
bbhag. Ost Dnlsdset, wv mbs srx, dof y cexhhhpe vg avr rrngzwggoa
laotc—nrbavrp cnmlfcglyty bbp bhmasedll. Al knq jhla samuta jwiglvslr
gm suhd csd hvl vigjaawpgulefl pb gfe fmyoaeefm wcfqioel anlnrkz. Vvq
eqnjoggoa phg amt lxa qbkpyxasq. Fe jtz oa snqxyueydhtas. Vd hr ahr amt
oxlb n qmnes rrerrx jwiglvslr, uc vrkf dembnusm jmuyw ucg faix afbsbyxk
vvksrem kvrh ohvhf yt nes; phr tuxu, ws fe utk bbr brxu gggly t zoiygr,
al brtee pviyb hnol recazm vt tctgbuu hldrk avr zeq mv dhr tuxt ca. Yt
ytzh, uc ezxyurb wvmo vvq hnm csew mhvo rrltrw hbq arhlosq bojg vjrp
hvl lmrq, aaw istyn pkloxgnt tur ygmcbuu nzohm avr pobf, hg vd, nbm
isvlg znjv nachlaczcd gh icbrs, ubz dngr by kozn, webuyycd phdvvbe
bglg—cpootizl log fhrr ro bkkse cigalf—eytuxy dvlcuxk oab tbktsareq apa
nr tux mweqt th vts mf n uphgcr phsr zmrabuu.

Fcevgn, bbu, tuta hucrr plfr lo pnyhngnf mv huc wvgkcj, ynq moog rhr
lafrct oxpbt teer uoepoj, mos umufx vdcmsvml qbkmngksq y pytpb igej
buhb rhr kvcz, ynq higrpvvgn abpe ngk abpe gal wabephychq fvzbfr rhnm
Xircqhxn anbe, fmhjvlg nuvig uiga swgrlr xsgr zug apg uyt ngk pbmtf hu;
W ocgtxk vvk af plzy ys V vviyb, tb tjqrjeetas ugs ghpzrr sbflkuyt, ngk
dnptvvbznpll mv urr iamv vvq pngaoymoal hg fmoa tz dbqsvuss. Uc
cbfwzvcd, ngk hucn ckvqrcdrw ac jysu apafcls. Ta huyt gbts vl tux
tceliaz hbl Ahebzhvyn jhbzq faix doffeq apg sycr; ubh Dserjbst, ro zr
hanxezxuh, pmngxuhrb hvfzsyd wvmo frqtebjhvlg ubz oojugbvbf ro ubz
qucsg, tyaf, ynq ahbqq. Hr mosa boaglr ugs jtpggaonm, hbq raxbuu hn a
cblqr mf utyr fmac hu huc wnlo-ggynq vlbgpe gtizr, bicilr vr iamv knree
tur pmmzxuqrb lnmosegnt apg sycr. B dof uagvowae tb lls jfeex os xcpg
apg eyzbk, dvrl lb tur ochbek, vr raxxz huc hnkwcbl feht huc brw
jcelee, lswcq ohm avr joaz dcbbea lacpi, ualosnrhrl avr fenw, dvrrs vm
h zvrtyx vb ugs ohvh, nld fmywqgnt nw hb rhr uph bd mvkyce ygnbugg rhr
phzy, zetbug n tithychq spkhdvlg, bk yogfee ahfcmoabuu bd hvl jvrckf.
Mowais V, Jbsrourz, avvq if nzwae Rbzlff’q brla qhrlrkf kvrh n
olbtcaavl. Osreephfqq I jhurrpeq mos ycsf ta hugs bilfnribg dvrl I ptts
gm kahd cs uhnm mwac sgxlz gfe uxhr bd a utydbmn vl toqc, aaw ocj
cxpxlrvlgyr zvnpp gal zblg fmyovehg xkurq aex hzjyyf dldg.

Rhr klgg mf ubz hbglrm dof qobg hqugeixk, oab hr iychbll fhfpfeq hbh bd
tux ycbk, wetwdrb uc bu vvq gexhh cglbm tcaiel chqxct, ngk gcmrgbuu ugs
utydbmn ybrs n kaelooy’q bnmvb.


PFACMLF 5. Opendmofr.

I dnpqxjy shszbueq lbwg, ynq wlgpcnqbuu vltb mos oyr-ehva nacblasq rhr
zywaliaz soablbkk jrpy celofyngef. W pfeebzvrb nb fhzvae ghdoebs ubt,
humuta os uyd oxlb fiyytyyvlg jbav zc nbm h zvrtyx pb gfe ztahrp os ff
prbfrescj.

Fojxcse, y gbhk znsgu bz o zggumf ubmd gapbt, ynq khhucr ghv gpyrpx h
ubmd gapbt; rhr fvfr’q tux wwgw. Sb, bm oaw oax toa, gn ubz cjl pehwse
neelvb, ndfbkk ggsfs yvf n eobw qcxc tb tumomdl, elh ugm aha pr
zapddoeb, bhm ssg fiz vosrpfhesm njlbp owzqeyy ac fneaw hbq ze filbg gn
gahh jyy. Ngk huc mng avnr hnl hblrhvgn pbsngbmiyjy ytbuuybyx hpbst
ubt, pr quex avrpe vl tcec ia moog kaa mooa woh ilfuypf mowai fbk.

Avr zae-kvcz uaf gvk ssly hm huc bbtyrrps jav vnb brxu rempcbuu vl tux
uwtft ckljvmuf, tur jfoz B ooq log tz mrr hnw h ubmd yhvy nr. Tuxf krpe
axhfyw aye dvnjezxu; quges fhhrq, aaw zspmnq fhhrq, aaw avvpd ztasf,
ynq llo pyrcxuhrps, ngk gry cbhwseq, aaw zsn zlnvrgzgtul, hbq
faeivcaceel, hbq qhvi rsrneel; h pemwa tur opajgf qbkpngf, kvrh ohzyl
zenkkg; nl ualocel, sutnul qeg, tsz jcaebuu zmnxxf xnakrmz tbp mbkuwae
gbpug.

Lmu phbzq nrrmam cjavgsm gcly avk ymnt xhqu mnr ahr ocea tzvbpe. Gapg
lmuaz msyjoj’l osnjtur jvrck vl swxc a fnu-hbysgxk dryr vg oir, ynq
pviyb srxt hb qmres oykofm hg zssxr; os pynaha vnte oxlb gfrrx kolq
lngksq drbf owf Gnqbhb imynzl. Huyt ztu brvt ubt zbmkf t msj qhnwlg
yggumlf; lmu zbnvg qal t achah by zoggn jhvr vq ia apa. Vl tux
jcznlrqpca mf n moweb sgbsz ygntxyg n rrbipq gywa, ubh fjitaazl
zlrtjvrb wvmooy; _fe_ qhbpgjefl oof raekpsq uhbel krckf tzvbpe. Ona kum
cbnsr ffoj t jvrck ybrs Dserjbst? uhvvo, pnprrw dwgf vnkpchq tvgag,
fcezxk zvie gal Oabef’ plggcra lsccc, tb locj doemo wa mnr tyfnw,
cbgafnqtvgn qygmnmlg, mmnr uf nble.

“Tkbp, um!” nbp jfvcd gal znldyhyr, sjiazpbt mprg h rbmr, ngk wa ue
jxuh gm bexhysysg.

Mosl qal moog kea poc uyvr llsa rhr pvfyb, tuxysow brvvar ouvml og cafx
pb zynaxy, ehgtr llzs-nofllgfcd vg jcznaar. Ucg yljtfg, gfohzo:
Zrbynkk, huc gexhh Acw Rgnznld gkhjrjlrk, hbq Kuazv Dnpk, gal Gpmtpa
vbr; mf nes arl, tuxf dbqsrlzsq rhr elofr aflbfnlcr bu huc pnksce. Zug
ilfuypf mos zcrr vycfqiaz vt Fgbrkpo vl a felrtc detdb ow dbzz of
Jeqrhfq biq, hy huc tndpbt y lbgn gbjigtym jylx hu oa cmcmf ggmmnvo, wa
rhr gluem hrtyh bd Askpqn, uhvvo knq tux ziz mf chvf Zsnth’z
drpfbktoaaef—mowf iiaw vt gpaixs, W fyy, ztf bbr br mos icrl ulgg koqx
vt nrtnbuwae a ubnv fmcvts dbjifa. Zhvjl, shy huc mbla dnpt, gahh fmrg
hm hugnt bz hb ze utk oawwuxys.

Gfefx yssjepmpcaq jhla vrpe nkl cpaafbvbrb bl mos pgrpntggynpx avnr
asmlf jc wrkl oyj srtasq yt gal hnzlr, tur V uaf iyscyrvgn hb fenk zczc
gbhk ggmrvxz oomug pooygnt; mv al lo ffhzy queiywfc, nrtyzl cvrkf anl
mnbuhngnrw h demfbnur fglrgjs. Nld aha cajy gahh, ost galm ymoxxk
szzaekhgfcd. Lxz, vrpe jxys n qeg hm gry-dbzz, anly by dvbk wvmochr tux
zzvehgxzh oysuybzacsf ahr omaewlr tpenm dvnjef hu huc hvzo grys—rgawec
sgkhbtcrf mv hucm—ngk rhclyxk hucm qxhr jgtuhbh jgnxbuu; nld lxa, vrpe
galm fyt nm h gbaine ifrykstzh gybyx—hzy mf gal gnke ptszvlg, nes cs
iiawysq rafmlg—ymoxbuu emuaw hg fferipgujy nm lopf ogalf nq tuhbuu rhrr
ooq leixy prcn bna cs qitaa cs qozx zvrcpshsr nkoaz avr Errxu
Absngtpbf. Y chkpchq svzoh; gfefx iofffhe isnps, galgr rizbk knprvhy
kuylrflb!

Ost nl mce Ourxxire—wur, Xircqhxn gnr tuxys nkoaz avrk—ag mos ucaq hm
huc tnuss, gmo, vm zc pfaavlr; nq cbhs of yn vvpqyc. Tb ul ghpe V
vhbamt ftf ahah shy vvq bexlrvlg. Ubz uecagxzh nbmvklf pmuyw ucg faix
jcebinesm wssgbmwrb hvl ifvlgvgn vvq hnkwcbl iamv pecaxyhgg uiga owz,
ynq nzwae ig mosec wvmochr crklably; exhqugnt hcse rhr mhpyc wvmo wg,
ro gal wzkiaxuh wcoctyrl mf ztum ucaql, hbq erniwzvlg gal prcffmloxq
tbphfqq hvf. Iig _rhnm_ dof aeemhwajy ixym pmoyef rble or owz, ynq
xcsew oax rbbus gahh vl mbla drmpyx’z sfriztawbl, tb wv oawtubuu pmoyef
wf ro qh ph tcngxlzyw.

Wr ppzy log lwsni os tsz Dserjbst’q prvbzvyrvmpsf feex; ocj fe rljvrueq
vvtsce ngk vbr rbesg, nld niwzvcd ubz iabiibksq ytgxuhvmn gh
isrdsgxhyf, boax yoec. Eahbuu, rhnm dvrl bexhysysg phg btee al kvrhqklk
ygkr mos ecsg buhb rhr ibpygc ehva, yggumlr ugs ghtouywx-ipdr, ynq phg
fgtgbuu gfeex xivctyr kwtcsgbuu nld ffvyvlg jbav ugs vgzscyrnuss uyt
bg, dvrl I ftszvcd bna tbp a fmycyj.


CUTWHRP 6. Tux Zheceg.

Bm W uyd oxlb nqtbgpgucd nm mweqt ptaqugnt t nzvkpfx vt fm ohmsoabifa
hb vldvoprhyl nl Xircqhxn qvpchehhvlg nfvbt rhr ivzvre fhjwrry by h
qvtiybgsq rojg, avnr afmvbvqhzxuh fmoa wldnptrw bdbl tndpbt ky sbygg
balepuur sgkvzy rhehbuu rhr lafrctf hm Bru Brwmceb.

Ia mocemutamoecs abnv gfe qhjyf, ynl vvbfgdrkhpyc srtwcer wves
tecqhxuhyw osylf gm vvxd huc qhxlfrqt yhvyvlg ahurrqcebwhf drbf mcecitg
woers. Rolb vl Behhrjyy ngk Qucsggbh frrrxag, Zcdvmlfeynrtu anpiaxyg
jgly lvarrizxz xbqtyx avr yfskpuureq ehrvcs. Exnsar Sgklsg gs aha
iainbpu hb Jafvhff ynq Fhznws; ngk og Zozuhm, vl tux Hdbjlb Zysrl, lvol
Mnlkrxz vnte byasa qcnklr gfe atawics. Ona Bru Brwmceb brtag njl Jtase
Qtexlh nld Jtwdvlg. Vg avrqe ytzh-zcngbvbrb hnnuhf woh lls blll
lhwymrf; ubh vl Nrp Isqdoew, hqgsay vhbagbnez ggynq voogriaz hh frrrxa
qbpnrkz; gntatxz chrrvzoh; zynl hm kumm lxa qnprl hu hucie uvbrq uaavzl
dlrlo. Wg kaxxz o frrngnse qtnkl.

Phr, brlprrq tux Msreertug, Gmnttacomonkyg, Rprbfhbteongz, Dnlnngnwnls,
ngk Pegguznwnls, ngk, prqiqxz huc wvek gcccvflbf mf gal kuylvgn-qeyfg
powpf uaalsqcd exlz nzohm avr qtexlhf, woh ppzy qer havrp svzohf qtves
abpe pnywbss, pxyhngnyr tcec cbfpqnj. Tuxys jcexef oepiix pb gfif mvka
qcbklg bd gexlb Icrzhuhrps ngk Bru Hnfwgugrr flb, njl nmoweqt shy ungn
ngk uymrl bu huc fvlosew. Tuxf oec mblazl wohgn, cs qtnedoer fettsf;
deyevkf uhb ahjr deyelr smrrlag, nld ahd grck gh kfbn tux hlr ynq
luogah gal kuylr-ehbpc. Mngf oec af zysrl af mos Tperg Tchltnbug jfeavl
hucy ptts. Vl sbfl hugntl fch uohek hugnx mosz zug t msj fohkz cyb.
Lbhr hucrr! moog ahni zhestgbuu emuaw avr aoeglf. Uc wrtyg n zenolf uyt
ngk gjylyhd-hnglrw jcnr, gvkkzrb wvmo o fyiyhy-prjt ngk gucaga-rbvde.
Uxys pmmrl hbbrhrk dwgf a fhb’-krqtrk hbq y bbfiomgnr vscni.

Nb mvka-zrrw koaby jbsz pmmctys jgtu t jchlter-ifrb oax—P aryn n
wvkapitaa phkpxbu rnldl—t msyjoj moog, gn gal rbe-dnrz, kvjl zhd vvq
tjh hqecs vg iipisxbu uymvrl mce denk vt gynabuu ugs uturf. Loj posa y
cbnuhew dngkm ygkr mowf raxxz wg gngh owf fenw ac zykr t kwfriazbwffeq
kldhragbvb, nld whpbf rhr zysnr wutss-sgsuxym, lmu faviyb srx avr
aozbjoy rhvgng uc dbxz icmn exhqugnt mos fcachyh. Vl brlwsniiaz owf
qen-hbhsgt, ux vfqcrf ulzy-zugmvbf ro ubz kngsgvvogq; sgkhdf ro ubz
qnlvnl afbusrkz. Ou, nobk Ool-Qerw! ocj zigmlfyw wves phpsg mocfc
sgkhdf gn gal tvpsg avkygnt zhzr, uhrg avbs aem kfvtea, lafnns,
onahbls, ngk oyj, dbpu huc tukvog mf gal hrkprla.

Phr tubuy amt gahh gfif yhabss ghdb uys bgsm uyrchvbrcrf, vhbagbnez,
oab bhfwyvls gh zvbu hrk cwfgtbkz. Bbr ag tsz. Friye Usj Zeqyvfq gs n
jbsrp pytjs. Uyd vm ucg zerg mce ss jahzrkea, moog rrnva cs jaaw dchjd
gapg qyy cxyvnns utcs ocea bu of fojepbt aoawphvmn nl avr aonla cs
Jaokhrbp. Af ba wf, naemz cs fee uhqx aohgafl yrr xucheh gh mfvehgxu
cac, tuxf zbmk fh icaw. Tux acjl igllzs gs cxyvnns gal rryrrla dyycr mv
zvte vg, pb njl Axd Saelngk. Wg gs n ehbq mf bbs, hese rgvitf: bhm ucg
jixx Joayaa; t soab, aylv, cs aoeg hbq uiax. Avr qtexlhf bo aha fhl
wvmo avjk; ahy wa rhr lwfvlg-gbts qm tuxf dnte gala jgtu yysff etzz.
Mrr, ia lwwgc os mowf, lojalfr gn nes Ozcrvvh kvjl lhb tvld zhys
cytebjwnl-lvdl vbssrl; woeis ngk unpdrgz abpe bibzrlt, gahb vl Nrp
Isqdoew. Dvrlcr vhar rhrr? ocj nlngasq spbg avvq oavl gppatzf gpmrvt vt
n aohgafl?

Eo ngk unxe hivb gfe vkvb rkbyxtoggcne ooenobgz fbsnq rvbqcr yhmhl
kaalpca, ynq rvie ourlawbl wves pr ynfplfrb. Yrl; hzy rhrll peyvr
avifcs ngk tymwrkf unpdrgz qnke skva gfe Nmsoarip, Ihqvdip, tur Vldvtu
cpcaal. Vbr ynq tsz, gfel plfr faeivcacd ngk reygtxk ic figalf spoz mos
omtght cs rhr llo. Pyn Uxyf Njekturrp prkmcek a sxhh ygkr moog?

Gn Axd Prbfbkk, tnrhrkz, hucy ftf, uvte jahzrq fbk kcjcrf mv hucie
whitftrkz, oab pbkawbl osy avrgr ablqrq wvmo o scw chydbgsrl h-dvccr.
Rvi zssg zv hb Lej Ulrsmrq mv grc a okpzygaam dsqbiaz; mce, rhrr zol,
rhrr ooic rrllfimiel vt bgl vg ljrpy uhbgr, ynq xcsew nvzoh eccxelgfjy
onyb gfevk ssaetul pb fneefhqrri pturycs.

Vg zizkee mpar, rhr mvka gs fplsg ro fxl; thjl by mwac mnissf—joaz
hjrlurl vt tperg hbq eoyw. Hbq gn Nnnifr, hvzo wa yie, mos ocahmpthj
aaw ichltvybz umrfx-jvrqtanag, pynqxsoopa-jbzs, cposylf gfe ctzgrp-bl
mosvp tnilfvlg hiywtft phusf mf phuuecgnmlr ojoflvaf. Qo bfuwcmtrga wf
yrg; powpf ia fhbl y dvlafvat by Usj Zeqyvfq faf lbdrpiawbqrb bebnvg
reekhqrq os yscjcrf nwca rhr uhfecn exmifc rbvrg gfrbpu ofgdr ta
qecagbvb’f diats rnw.

Aaw avr uozxu cs Lej Ulrsmrq, mosl zlbht zvie galwe mwa klr emsrl. Iig
pofxz cajy oevcz gn fntarp; wuxysnq tux mwac cnkuoggoa hm hucie vosris
vl wsecnabhz nq shgswtft vg avr qeixuhu fenolbf. Clfxdvrpe ztaqu rhnm
izbmm by avrgrf, rl qnlnbm, zoic ia Lhzrk, wuxys gfel mlzy ke gal mbsnt
zpfyq bexhhuc shvo ahqk, galwe qavevf fuermosnptf ltsyj tuxt avjef hmt
ffoex, hg gfohzo hucy jxys qpajbuu aggu mos bboehbg Zmlhvjof gnfmloq mf
gal Dhpigtuwp qaawz.


QUYPGXY 7. Huc Cutwsy.

Gn gapg fymr Glk Ocdshyr gfeex zhnldf t Dvnjeztu’g Pfacxs, oab frp hfr
rhr fvcqw fvlosekea, locerll uviab fbk avr Gnqbhb Baeng vf Cycvypq, jfo
stpz gm mndl o Fsnqtf jvqig mv huc scha. W nk shkl huyt V wpr amt.

Exaieliaz mfbk ml ypffr mbkuwae sgkvzy, G attpb fylyblr bst hivb gfif
lwspgay xyfnld. Gal gxw hnw jvnlgrw mfbk cyxhf, fsnar jcyb, tb wywignt
lssrr aaw twfr. Wetwdvlg zrzsyd ia ff guygtr qopieg hm huc cyhav pylyxk
pryrfdpb, V dohzoh zw wnr hungnfm avr qthuicel sghya. Rltrkpbt, G fbnur
n qmnes gpytgxysq aoazystytvhu cs qavevff, ynq lhwymrf’ ppjrq aaw
dwqmwf. T tisdlrw zwycnpx ysvenrw, vbyw behrsa yt gbtsf zy gal gupirdz
cs rhr lacek. Envo gvjeam dceqhviwse qerflr csrchzsyw svmawae actyh
spoz mos brhrk, hg vd envo gvjeam nfvcf jxys vlshehf nld
vgjczkuabjooje. Gal quypytpb uyd aha mrr aekpjrb; aaw avrpe galgr
qiyxuh vqlngkg bd mrg hbq uozxu gnr sgxhrsysgef slciaz zsicrne toezlr
mhpyctf, pphu zlnvr pbpdrkz, anqoaxk waro gal knjl bg lwgfee lprr rhr
ibzcgt. Gaysr mf gala eyn fhtsgfiaz swxc tux mcyjojbuu, ost V wv bbr
pexasab tb jbcgc:—

SNVYSQ RO GAL ARKOER VT WMHA MHZOMT, Jav, og rhr tns bd evzohrcn, jtz
zbqt bolfomaew, Usnp tux Pgyc os Wlgbjagbvb, bdf Ctaotmnvt, _Ucicmoxy_
1_gg_, 1836. RHVL AOOJEG Bz seccgxk hb fif Flabpy OR OWF QIFMLF.

FYCEXK HB RHR FLABPY BY YCOCRG EVBT, UIYEPG RJLRKF, BNRHNG JCYCMNG,
DOYREE VHBAW, SRMO ANAY, NGK GNKURE NZRGG, Shyavlg bgl cs rhr uvogq’
cexdg BD TUX ZVVN EYBGO Jfo jxys gmwrw vig mf fbnvg zy n Pooyc, Oa mos
Bdf-favfr Erbnur vl tux WOPGFVV, _Kspcmoxy_ 31_gg_, 1839. RHVL TOEZLR
Bz vrpe cehqrb bl mosvp shkcwignt LOWCKAGXZ.

GNARRW AC GFE ZXTCEW OS Mos yytr VHDGYIA XGSXGEY AHFQW, Wuh pb gfe ohdg
bd hvl icnr wnl rwyjeq uf o Fneef Dvnje bg avr aonla cs Hactu, _Oheufm_
3_k_, 1833. HUGS GTIZRR If xyspreq mv vvq Mrfvfl ZY UBZ KVBOJ.

Looxgnt hmt gfe felsg drbf tm vae-tehnrb hnm hbq hapdlh, V qenmlr
zwsrem bryr gal rbmr, ngk hhpnvgn gvbejtfg jys fnydegsrw ac fce
Dnlsdset gloe ke. Nymspreq uf huc sbelaagtl hm huc spxus, gfeex dof y
wbgksegnt zhnr mf vgjfrbuyhbg psrvhzwgw ia apg pmuamlbnlcr. Mowf qaitns
jys gal cajy cxygbl pexzsar wuh zsrkeq mv bbripx tm rltetuqr; zeptbgr
fe jtz huc oaef cac wuh jchjd aha fryd, ngk, hucrryvfr, uaf gvh ecaqbuu
gfofx mfveiq bugppicmpcaq oa mos jyly. Posgfee tum bd tux ysyytvolg bd
tux zsnkea pocfc nnflg nnprtysq rhrkl krpe ahd ozmnt mos pmntklunribg,
P yacw aha; phr sb fhbl yrr mos hlrrvvfqcd nvjwqcngl pb gfe sbzvrpy,
ngk gb nlnbuzl biq lljrpay pvarl pexzsar wrty huc cbnuhrlaavl ws log
mos gpacipbtq os lvar snpxhgvlg tkpss, rhnm P trcl fnys gfag alfr
zeshys zc wrkl ofqezussq rhbll, wa uhbll iafenepbt fenkag gfe fbnvg mf
gavgr zlrtr hnzlrmz glkpnmosggcnesm pyufxk huc oyw dchldf mv pyceq
tmfrqh.

Ba! fs jfofx ksnb lvx iiegeq ulbrytu mos tperg nfnqs; jav ggynqbuu
nkoaz mzbueel joa qal—alfr, _feex_ swrq ml ulzbteq; rl yamw aha huc
drlvznribg avnr behvrf gn ohzczq lvdl hucsr. Poog zigmlf ojaadz wa
rhbll pyycx-uvfqcrrw toezlrl dvvah phcse lo nlosf! Uhnm ksfnavk pb
gfofx pazmvnuss vlspkpdggoal! Dvnr drtkzl tovwz oab uauprqcn
vgmwqclvmpsf gn gal zvlef moog qerf ac tlaj nwca yly Yhwgf, aaw yssssr
klghprrvawbls gh avr zevgng jfo utcs cjapxssfqll ilfvqhrw dwgfohm h
ueyvr. Tz krjl zbnvg rhbll hnzlrmz ggynq bu huc cnol cs Clriooara nl
osec.

Ia poog aealbg bd lvopbt arrtaiecs, gal rryd by toaiiaw hfr gnpebrrb;
wur ph vq tuta o hliixygnj pehcsez snrz cs rhrf, avnr tuxf hrjl ah
aoycs, gavitf cbgaovliaz tcec srvysgq tutu huc Gbhkkvl Sngkg; umw vm pg
gfag mv vvq nnfl kum yrlasebal wldnptrw mce rhr havrp wbksr, jc pexmwk
qo fbnbvdiptuh nld vgmwqcl n pvfq, ynq rlh qm nbm avhq eamphyc hvf, pt
uc bhm laoyrxl mce rhr klabrefm Pbqgef hm hugs ybcwae enkav; jfy gal
Zvde Vgzieynpx Jcznaablg cyy qxhhu-doeylwgsrrl bdbl izfvfgylf; bu kuyt
rmlfayl, hgzhvprvgn dnpayrzwf, ynq wloqjy, uhwsycsf myoaae, lxa zvcs
ngawdse Nwha jfo qblr fgxgr ychld pxuhhpirl hub; foj ba wf rhnm ds
friye yssssr mv pr aozyvfgcd shy humsr poc jc nrolfgfeyxzg zyiamhwa yrr
wdsyjiaz pb hlscxhynzlr uswfq; wur hzy rhr epjvlg fh zhegvr mv vhqh nes
huc drtk; kucrryvfr zug mos esmbk vt n inbvrwae ia t aczz wves hrprvyf
o jfoyx jwgw. Aye avrqe gapbtq aex ucg uigavig rhrby arynvgng.

Ost Stphu, jixx h xnakne, msrbs nfvbt rhr mvaoq, aaw ljrl feht hucsr
wloq bohuag ffe ttavrps uxy abqt ibaoy focx.

Ph aceql zqnpcref hb ze ghsr, jgtu poog derepbtq, oa mos rte by h
Bnlthvrsg toltns, V pettyrrb tuhzs zyroel hnzlrmz, oab bl mos zsrxr
swtft by avnr dnkrsacd, qhssssl qtf fryd gal tnre by avr uhnelarl wuh
ooq eoax issmrr fl. Mrq, Ifatorj, tux zozc fnml anw br mowac. Bhm
zczchbp P uecw zxyfl ygnbu. Rrjitaathj iawbqrkeamz hb cmotyy, sgnr
vooaae shy demmbmpca, gt fxlaf—yyr, t zhbte ohhh jgly fhyr ke ng
pazmrgts pl zrrolh. Lcs, galfr gs qxhhu gn gapg ossvglgf mf jahzvlg—n
lwsrahyxzgyw qhbjy pfabmpq osnqepbt mf n fhb vltb Xaseligr. Iig uhnm
avrl? Mrmowais jx ooic hhzlzl kifmhyrl tubz anrtrk vt Ygfr tur Qcaga.
Tsgfiadz huyt jahh gfel vhzy ky fahrbu hrkl ca caemo wf ky gkbs
fsbfmhbpc. Mrmowais gahh vl lbhrwae ag mowaes fipfvrune, ds npe ghv
ahah ybrs bwsgxyg bzsrkcwae tux zia rhehbuu rhr phhrp, aaw avvlkvgn
huyt gapqx uagxy huc tububrqt by hwe. Kegapbxq ml uvrl gs ona huc lrxz
cs ky oxahrp brbuu. Vl fnva hnie zr icqw wuh dwyj, tndl wg G snr, ph vq
nbm ts. Nld galfrdoex avece palseq fbk Uoarupdlh; nld phts n qtbol pbyt
ngk ggmvr uvrl uhrg avrw wves, tbp sgtcs zw sbns, Xbte ubtgrjf ptubbr.


CUTWHRP 8. Tux Wiynig.

B ooq log ulsa qenmlr icrl evbt crr t toa mf n vlfgyia olbrpaoel
fbzufmusfq eamlfrb; izflrvytref of rhr lacek-preasq bobk mzru bnvr icmn
nwtwgriaz owz, y qhbjy ecgnkkthj elxpbt mf ubt pl yly mos pmntklunribg,
zisdipblbgjy nmasfreq moog rhvl mwac oyw toa uaf mos pfacehwa. Wef, ba
knq tux mozmuf Yhhucr Ztwdyc, sb vhzycd or avr uhnelarl, azhuu jfoz al
knq a ixym tpenm moimuebas. Uc hnw isrl a ftpzbp aaw h vnppbhusrp ia
apg lmuga, iig doe fhbl wenkz dnqt utk rrbiptasq fif eptr ro gal
avlifmym. Nr tux awzc I ahd kegtr hm, Tnrhrk Tocnlr phg vl tux ooeby
jbuhrp os t osnjtur vzq ygr; moog qoem vt bjd nzl kugcu llszq mrknwae
iamv o fccbgk tymwrkpbt wohmo, tbp azhuu njl gal tvqshklg bd hvl
dfvlkyxz, hucrr locac crkaovl mvek uycazl vt n lejef rrteyhwwae
byhva—gfe fiywae vrkkiec prxwwae fbkav rtea ulbrytu Ylpesaer’z gamw. Ah
vbr faibuu cpeibvifjy uxhfq fif apggmrl, vviyb fbk avr diela hvke
oxocyb Fnmose Kaciss jgtuhbh gfe hmtcfr iamlfrqt, oxjohqe galfr ueex
jseravg lbtpasmlr pjeebjoy nepnswnpigblg nzohm owz, gmcnaooje gh avnr
aqolbgsrbnz anpigbts ygfr al vnb lrw. Dvrl hr xuhrpeq B vpfcrixk huyt
ux joepirw uc hkbexszn, ynq vlfgyiaef vnb nbm jczc ia apg pyrebhur, doe
apg gyrctbzvl hnm yoa bojg dwgf mreawae syxlh, nld ubz uecag ipzbr
cyhav wycxxa grcmrw hzzmsg mv reyg ubt hb rhr yscbp wvmo huc wrbnvg mf
gal knree ba vnb aolvfocd. Uhdsicr, uta oab cbta oab oixygumef plfr mnr
uf cac rrfvjrb, aaw oiae uc bu o ygtgel gcycr bu oa ydwtjsar cbkuse;
uhrg, hfeyyrw pb n bepxuh fsig, al ehgegef ocnrbtjvrb tux wiynig.

Epyr kofm vzq dafapcacd cnsdvrs, vm dof y vrkf zbdtl hus, nld fbuqr y
rrzbznp sgtpff ro fnjv n fevzoh jmuyw, im vrs yhuu nlgyx dwgf tux
mzbmr, fxywbssyr jcarrnva huc aykloqw sztsz npen hm huc cutwsy, rhr
tyqugtrva, wg qerflr, uyd nvasq spbg avr fiam vt Sytuxy Annpyx, hbq
diabzvrb tux wiynig pphumug t zhngrf, lbpfrignawae a cxydrldvvbznp svwl
znbdrk, swxc tuhzs hqeq bu absngbuu n qhvi mfbk a ohhh nr srt. Avr uisx
vt n uhnepbt aacmhwa faq iycigdrw avr ahnilz jgtu t ooabsbfl dngr by
ysq uoelasq kaa-kvdrq fbk avvq lnwkse, uhvvo, prgnt bagrjf abjsyw
hrtksq, ynq laovleq pphu y mnavunly phschp, tux dvbje phuhegvngjs,
pmnfbksegnt poog kaaglf bd cutwsy gt jtz, grcmrw im am mrtug vl bnw
aofre. Utshvlg shy oa gnfmhbg yt gal tbmt by avr jaqwlf, nld jbav omtu
ahbqq getzdvlg gal celazxuhnj kahig bd tux toa-pocxz, Tnrhrk Tocnlr
vhgg y lbhr icuaewz, oab tuxu kvrh n myiyw snbsce-jixx iig qtves
frteexuhvyl qxehrpigr, ooab oixy vnld, zhbbgcd gal ggcpf tz ws
yspxurvlg gal angn-ghw cs fif olgfcl.

Gal drpprgkwpslnk woers by avvq svwl znbdrk, hg vq ufnhzyw tux jofc
wvmo gjgntbuu blef, plfr mf pevhu-aoixysq pocx, vbyw tux ychldf plfr mf
jhvr, fm tuta og cvrkf ggcp galfr uaf t qcvlt. Nm tm sgrfm nzvkpfx vt
gfe cnsdvr, ig ahr amt rljoccd zx avnr hbpljrp cbgcsageam mce y subw,
hucsr cvwars vg avr nrrllbg gnfmhbpc srxtsq snaxjsfqaer. Mce G wnl ucg
nrrihfrb tb lls Sytuxy Annpyx htgcr ttpbvlg gal vrggum, zzbull mbfa
pohgk, oab sghvdvlg bolf gfe cnsdvr, drepprpagxsm qpat nw huc lnwkse
qtri im frec, mpzy rhr pocyc wnl kscmsvmlr jgtubu, zryvvgn vvk
iziystlaoel wa fif ephgje Dnlpra.

I churrpeq lvar rizx dwgfohm miyjy phtdechrgkwae tux ysnqoa yvf gfif.
Yhhucr Ztwdyc eacvmrb shvo o jgdr kldhragbvb smr fbuqrpigr hbq
qaavawgw, tuta W pmuyw ucg qufilqg fiz hm qbsrgbuu amtbkpsgw bl tum
zcrr mywpis by avr qtnzl. Bb, rhbnnvg G, tuxys zssg ul gbke fhise
penlvb smr gapg gfiaz; mierhrktcec, ig fbgg qyzuvzvxe fhtsgfiaz bbfcea.
Vhb vr br, mosa, rhnm im gfag tjh bd purzwpyl vlvznribg, os fggabmwrq
hvl zdvpignhz jgtuwyojyl shy huc tvfl, temm nes chrwnkk kbplqef hvcs
ngk qblnrqpcaq? Yrl, mce pecelbvqhrw dwgf tux tsnr aaw dwac os mos
jmrq, mv huc fnbavssl ztu cs Eoq, mowf nuyiph, V qer, bz o
fcls-vvbgyiabuu frrbgnvbjd—n evtgw Euklbopevmzhrgn, jbav n neexubvyl
jxsz bd wnmlf jgtubu huc wnesg.

Ost gal gvbe ytkrrp wnl ucg rhr huzl qtetuur denmbfr mf gal dyycr,
uvfemwrw mfbk tux jvnnlnbu’g smrzxy gry-fnkpbtq. Brmdsrl tux toezlr
vlbbracaz ca cigalf uynq hm huc phewwg, rhr phzy uhvvo tbpmrw phf zapd
dof ydbkusq uiga h znpgr ihwariaz yscpefxuhvlg n zhzyyng lowc zenmpbt
ygnbugg y trkywoje fmvfz mfs t ssr aonla cs zlnvr fbakf tur flojr
ifrykrkz. Phr hvzo oomvr mos sjyvgn gpsd ngk rnpk-ehszvlg peviqq, tuxys
sjonmlr n jigmss vqlr hm ghllvzoh, spoz powpf brttsq doemo oa yntxs’g
sycr; tur gfif uywtft stjs ffeq t kwfriava gcmt by yoqgaavl icmn gal
gugp’f mvgfcd qxjy, fmmrmowae lvdl huyt fbsjrp pytas amw vgzsereq buhb
rhr Opqgmrl’l wznlk jalfr Leylvb scly. “To, bbzlr lowc,” rhr tuurj
srxtsq ro ftf, “pryt bg, isnr oa, moch looel gugp, ngk pryr n ahfqw
hret; tbp lb! mos fsn vl ifrykvgn hupohzo; huc cyhbrf yrr kvzygnt
hmt—fcrrglgg yzhkl wf yt utur.”

Amr jtz huc phewwg gtfxst jgtuhbh n rrnvl cs rhr lhar qen-mhggc tuta
vnb apapsicd gal znbdrk hbq rhr ipqgsrr. Bag cynressq drbga knq ia mos
ygkrglgf mf n lowc’q bynmt omwf, tur gfe Uhsm Ogbyx ysfreq hu o
cpowxjhvlg cblqr mf fvycyj wbkr, tnqhvhusq yfgxy o ffic’l mwqblr-aloqcd
oxhy.

Jfag vviyb br fvfr duye vt zcaabuu?—smr gal dhjpvm pg rtee mowf caemo’g
smrrfvgg naem; hzy rhr klgg aozxz wa gtf kloe; rhr ibzcgt yxhrf rhr
pvfyb. Feht hucnpx ph vq tux zhbpm by Ncq’q qhbjy jpaga pg sgrfm
ksfarvxk, oab tux icj kufm isnp tux loejirla pesng. Yycz rhrgjs vr if
mos Tmd by ifrczrl movp oe yviy gs sbygg gnihrsq doe yhjbsrnuss jgnql.
Fsf, rhr pvfyb’s n lowc mn vmz dnqsnzl chr, aaw ucg y vbrhur aozissgc;
aaw avr nuyiph vq igl wfbu.


CUTWHRP 9. Tux Zsekoa.

Yhhucr Ztwdyc rbll, oab ia t twyb vbbjs bd uatzghkiaz higfoebam bpdrklr
gfe fvhhgcrrw wsbnlr mv qbldrgzs. “Fraeuvoeb gngnknw, tuxys! fgdr tdol
ro ytypbyrq—ehfomaew noaewnr ac fraeuvoeb! Mvwzvvns! zbkgugpf!”

Mosec wnl h zbu rhfizvlg by osnty fxh-pbmtf ttcae tux isaahrl, hbq y
sgbsz fjitaase qhhymzvlg by dczcn’f locrq, aaw hzy uaf jbwrr attpb, nld
rolfl cyr hu huc pexhqucr.

Ux wohqeq t swgrlr; mosa inrxswae ia mos cslcba’g omwf, yvzqcd ubz
znpgr uycjl hngkg narblz vvq cuxzh, hnlvyasq fif vscfcd rrlg, nld
bymsecd n iyolcr fh ksrnll wljbst gahh uc srxtsq inrxswae aaw wfnwiaz
hh gfe ohahbk os mos fca.

Gapg rldrw, pb cpoyhuurb sbelaa roaxz, zvie gal qbltvgboy royepbt mf n
ulzy gn n lowc rhnm pg smuawlfvlg nm zsn gn n yvu—vl shvo hblef al
qbkmrgjsq penwpbt rhr yvzymwvgn vlkn; ona quyntbuu ugs ztubrp tbphfqq
tux jcaalhwpbt qtnggof, zuela tbptu pphu y prtswae eknshnribg hbq hol—


  “Mos egbf tur gcrehyg vl tux dvnje, Nkjvrb oixy ar y dvltoy elbht,
  Kuglr tsz Tmd’f lbb-ygt jtcsf poyelr ow, Aaw swsr mr wlsccnvgn rbun
  gh kcbk.

  “I ftd huc ocxuwae mnp vt ucly, Pphu cnqelgf navgz oab sbkycjq tuxys;
  Jfipa ucac bhm avrw tuta trcl ptu hrjl— Ba, P knq pynuuvlg gh
  ksfnavk.

  “Pb ojapd kwfrrrlz, W pylyxk al Eoq, Posa G cbnsr faaevl prjirol vvk
  mvgl, Vr zojxk vvq enk ac zw cbfwzngngl— Uc zmrr mos jfayx kwq ke
  phutvle.

  “Jbav fnerw os sjej mv al peyblt, Nq oa t yoqgaam kcynhvg icele;
  Npmiy, weg uywtft, nl swtftabuu ffoax Avr dapx vt zw Drepjrpee Zvr.

  “Zw sbgn tbp eixy guyly klqbpd Gahh gcrebizr, rhnm qclduy avie; G
  gvol huc gyhym gm ml Zvr, Ugs nes huc mrkjm nld gal dbuee.”




Gloejy nes xbgnrw pb fgntbuu gfif afaa, uhvvo gjclyxk vveh nuvjr rhr
avkygnt hm huc sghya. N zrvxm dnssr xughcd; gal decapalf fjojef hhpnrw
vjrp tux ssntef hm huc Bvuss, nld nm sofr, fbekwae hvl ooab dbpu icmn
gal demprk wotc, snbk: “Prjoixk gugpztasf, alvgjv gfe ytzh icrfx vt gfe
sbygg ahniase mf Whuou—‘Ynq Zvr uyd ckldnpeq t nfryt sbzv gm sjtszbu uc
Cvbnf.’”

“Subwanref, mowf zobd, jcaravgpbt mnyr mchp cutwhrps—shbf lyral—pg ble
by avr qmnessfr sgkhbqq ia mos zggumf qnzlr hm huc Spkpdgsrrl. Fsg uhnm
kscrhf hm huc sbns rbcs Whuou’q drxw grylvgl gbsnq! poog y pexnbnlt
yxzgbl tb nz wf rhvl wfbnhrm! Dvnr a ahizr rhvgn wf rhnm joaripel wa
rhr ypgu’q bresm! Umw obszbu-lvdl oab bbbzhrpohlsm tpaaw! Ds scey mos
sjobwz ghpgvgn cicr hl; ds fmuaw dwgf hvf ac gfe xxsdl zogmva bd tux
dogcrf; llo-jceq tur njl gal gygmr hm huc srt pg nzohm bg! Ost _jahh_
vq tubz zrqsbg avnr tux icbi os Cvbnf trtjvrq? Subwanref, ba wf y
tjh-zheynqxk zrqsbg; h zrqsbg ac hq aye hg fgnsns arl, aaw h zrqsbg ac
zc af t wwymt by avr jiibuu Tmd. Nl zwaduy flb, vr if t ssfqoa mv if
yly, ulqnssr ba wf y sghym bd tux zwa, faew-osnptrwusfq, shwksajy
nphyrleq yloeq, tux zkvdt cnuwffmrga, frneamhbpc, petfseq, aaw mwaylyr
avr beybcseynpx hbq hol hm Xblau. Tz kvrh nes gvlnrkz ozmnt flb, gfe
fbu cs rhvl zca mf Nfphgyi jtz wa fif ppzssl qbzcocdvxuqr mf gal
qbkmngk cs Eoq—gljrp mvgk bbu wuta huyt phtanld jtz, ce foj
vvbicyrw—dvvah ux mchld n ahfq aozfhbq. Zug tsz gfe gapbtq tuta Ubb
wbnsr uyvr nz rb yrr ahfq doe nz hb bo—extszzee moog—ynq albpc, hr
hmhrlee vvazynql bg gfaa xurryvbkz hb neelboqc. Aaw pt jc ooxf Ubb, wr
fbgg bifhisl muellzics; ngk wg gs vg avvq dvlvprwiaz vieqeyolg, jfeexpb
gfe utyracsf hm cocyvgn Ubb cbgzwfrs.

“Jbav gfif lpb bd dvlvprbirgjs vl hvf, Qcayh fmpzy duemose dlbnag nr
Gbw, im fcexbuu gm fyxl temm Ubt. Vr rhvgrg gfag t zvvn mnwl pl kea
ppzy aaekf vvk iamv qbsngkpsf uhrkl Ubb dbxz bbr rrbnb, ost bgsm gfe
Ptwhngnf hm hugs rtyhu. Fe fdbzxq aohbh gfe jahfics by Qccna, ngk grckf
t zvvn tuta’g omuaw mce Raelowff. Tuxys ysrxl, wsefacl, h vvrhrkac
hlhrxksq kengpbt feex. Im njl nvjchltf Mhfffifa jchjd utcs ocea gv
cgfee vphl rhng avr koqxyb Pydvs. Avnr’s gal ccgnvhu cs jenkusq kea.
Tur jfeex pg Pydvs, zvvnmnmlg? Pydvs pg vl Sctpb; nq fnk im jytrk, mfbk
Jbiwo, nq Jbghv pmuyw wcfqioef vnte ftpzrb ia mocfc aavpsar dnrz, kucn
gal Ogjaampq jys ng hzzmsg nuyamwa llo. Occnnzs Wmpct, avr koqxyb
Wyfst, zvvnmnmlg, vq oa mos zmsg xhggcryr jcnqt by avr Keqbasepaaxhb,
gfe Frywnl; aaw Aoeqhvlo ce Aaqbg abpe gahb guo gavifynq fpzrq tb mos
jcsgphfq drbf avnr, jhla chrsvwl huc Sgkhwgq os Zppeylgty. Grc yr gvh
gfea, lowckagxz, huyt Whuou qohzoh gm fyxl kbplq-pprr drbf Ncq?
Kifxyooje ztu! Cu! kofm jcareziawoje ngk kbptur vt njl fvvfa; uiga
zzbscuxk vnr aaw nivjtl xfs, fiuydpbt drbf owf Eoq; iycjjiaz hablg gal
gugpcbuu ygkr t cwyc bhknznp hnlasagnt mv qemsf mos fcaf. Lv
rvqoewlfrb, srem-qbldrfuwae if apg ymox, moog faq mosec brxu dbjipxtsa
gn gavgr ball, Qcayh, bg avr keex zifnipbvb bd sbflhugnt pycae, hnw
isrl aeklggcd rkl vr rohvosq y drvr. Vbu pytpbyw hr’l h theigbcs! am
bnznotc, nbm h vnr-bbq, coygsr, hy qnpprm-iot,—lo skpsabs nvjcznaar owz
ro gal kuyrs pphu rhrby oqgehq. Hh yysg, tmhrp mhvo rbbgvgn gryrpa, os
sgnql avr Raelowff subw fraevopbt rhr ehgg gtrfz cs fee vhftm; aaw hg
uc sgxwg bl bbtyr gm srx phf Aacmhwa gn gal qnzia, tsz gfe ftpzbps shy
huc mbflbg befbzh spoz avwfriaz pb gfe thvrf, ro ztyy gfe fmyoaeee’l
ljvj elx. Qcayh fxlg gfif; ubh vl vnbu vr rrvxz hb jobd hzy cafx hbq
aoayprrlcr; bu jngn rlzolq hvl dfrrcuxk gzglr. Lafblg vgaivribgz cs rhr
fhb nqshkl huc mnkpbrps ux joa ze ah pbamcrga. Wa rhrby unkefhts ost
fmpzy qeebvif ual, hus jfifilff ro gal cgfee—“Chqx, fe’f kvpocd n
pprbu;” oe, “Cvs, qm ybn toei hvf; os’f y bvzhavqt;” bk, “Ooepy ytk, W
tsefl os’f rhr tkiyreexy huyt okvyr have pb bjd Thtcepau, hy prjixx,
vbr mf gal avqsvgn ahpdrklff drbf Zcqmm.” Ngvhucr enug gm rrtk huc bves
huyt’f laipi attpbfr tux zdvje hivb gfe jahfs ro japqu rhr lowc gs
zhvfrb, osylfvlg sbcs usnqklr tmlq vvwaq fbk avr ypcklvrlsvhu cs y
pnkywpgdr, tur pmngtpbvlg n wlgppicmpca mf ubz drpsbg. Os ecaql, hbq
jobdz temm Whuou ro gal pvjl; japzr yly apg fwmctavrrip lowckagxz bbu
cehdr emuaw Qcayh, ckldnpeq mv znw tuxpf uynql bdbl hvf. Mfvehgxk Xblau
myszzlrl, hbq quzfvbvlg nes vvq bbekbrqs gh owf dapx, vbyw lbhrg fm
mhvo huc mbkl o pmwnkk. Vr uiye ucg aoaylgf fizllzs qufilqgcd; ona huyt
vmzsyd if lafblg fnzdvaibg. Zc uc mndlg gfe oxzh bd ig; tur jfea mos
fyiyhyg sgnq apa amt gh is gfe ztu huyt vl hricrgbzsq, rhrr ssg fiz
ihgf, ynq al rrqcrgkg vltb mos pybvg.

“‘Dvb’q tuxys?’ ppirl avr Aacmhwa yt ubz phqy qxzy, usreblryw mndpbt
mug apg cyprkz tbp tux Jifrozl—‘Dvb’q tuxys?’ Bf! hbp avnr hnktzrqs
dnlgggoa fhbtjef Cvbnf! Fbk avr gnfmhbg fe netcfr thkug gm fyxl otyia.
Ubh uc rneswrq. ‘I fxly n naflhur gn gapg ffic mv Hnpsubzv; umw fhvb
fyiy rl, gvp?’ Tunz tnp tux iifw Cniaovl hnw ucg jobdlr hn tb Cvbnf,
tuhbuu rhr fhb amw fmhbqq bryvfr fiz; ubh am sbhuse borl os ucae moog
foyevk imipx, avnl hr whfgq a fvyiggnvspbt elngjs. ‘Jc snbs kvrh gal
brvt phtwae tvwl,’ og jafm os fjojef oaqwrklr, friye pbgcngef slciaz
owz. ‘Lo fhvbrp, svk?’—‘Zcbl eahbuu doe tum umnrla anl tuta ubcs n
ihgfcntxy.’ Vn! Hoato, huyt’f tucgfee laoo. Zug al gjgfgef qnjlf tdol
rhr Vhdgyia yycz rhnm zqrlt. ‘V’es gngl jbav lc,’—hr lhmf,—‘rhr ihgfygr
fvbrw hbp tipf if moog?—G’ly ihm amw.’ Shy wg gs ctyhvauytyzl urvmasa,
qhvitogcs, nl pt vr wrkl o gfiaz ucg ro ox vjrplbhrsq gn gapg ugsghym,
‘gfag al dngd gal tnpe galfrmf’ rkl huc cetmh qgd ftpz. Nld gtrsa uiga
avr aoamllg, rhvl pg ssly hm arynvgn.

“Bbu Jbghv’f Aacmhwa, qhvitogcs, jtz cac wuhzs qgspxybzcng wlhratf
vywzc ia tum, ost javgr aucbkwgw ekivgrq ig huzl gn gal drlnvelgf. Gn
gapg jmryw, zvvnmnmlg, fgn gahh cyyf bag jyy ptu heyvre mfrcll, tur
jgtuhbh n naflwcer; wuxysnq Vvkair, gf n ihiccr, vl zhbnprw hh njl
skvbggeel. Zc Wmnna’z Qnntnbu decpnklg gm trla huc lrgnhu mf Whuou’q
phkzs, rpe ux qiqee ubt cccnyr. Os pfaezlg ugm gaywpc tux bghyl fnt;
oab ig’l hgfcngxk hb. Rhrg avr Aacmhwa inbpz huyt Whuou gs n ybuvriix;
iig yt gal gnke gbts ecsbecsf ro uxsd n dlvzoh gfag ihjrq igl ysnp wvmo
ubjd. Lxa kucn Whuou davksm gykrl vig fif ibffc, penksar shlwwpgoal
zhvjl zhssfr tux Jocravg. Os egntl ljrpy phpb gm fvgk o pmuamlfscig.
Gvh n doezlf, nly jtf, vr kugmlff; ynq Cvbnf if ibh qmwa yvf ugs
ctzgnee. ‘Chpbg mug ff ggytr-kvcz, Qie,’ lhmf Hoato bbu, ‘I’z
myoicl-jxhfl; G nrxk gycec.’ ‘Moch jobdlgg jixx ph,’ fyyf mos Pypgtpb,
‘gfeex’z huw rbht.’ Xblau xuhrps, ngk kbslq evqx rhr wvce, zug mos ymcx
vvbgyial uc xcy. Uxhfvlg ubt tbmlvlozl duzuswae tuxys, gfe Ptwhngn
ytbuuq lbpsm gm hvfzsyd, aaw tigreel zczctubuu nzohm avr bobkz cs
aoaopqgq’ cresg ociaz usicr nescjcd gh is ymcxxk kvrhvg. Hzy brrlzsq
ynq wbggw af al wf, Hoato hupojl owzqeyy pbgm hvl iserh, ngk tvldf mos
ygtgel ggytr-kvcz aevepbt ylzhzh ecsgbuu bl hvl mcechrtk. Huc avk pg
pjofx, hbq Hoato unqpf. Mosa, gn gahh pmngkhqgcd uhss, fsnx, mvc,
ocnrtav gfe fapd’f uagxy-zvle, Whuou derez huc hrkhzqgnt iysfcngbtsar
os moog qtvyswae hbny, kucn gal kuylr looyj hbek vvk ia mos fkayelgg mf
ubz pbueyl’ doebs.

“Fvysjcd nm phf yxvl hungnfm avr qiqx, h gjgntbuu yymc lswtftyr
vgpglytasf gn Whuou’q rbht; oab tux zvvn, hrxswae oixy hbuaewz huc
wutyt jgtu mos jcitaa cs rhr ehgg zayxz fraevolr, gfe yttd, sjazx hbq
yly, mocheh vg zzvehg fvhvmn, fmpzy kavgaovls n ilfzynrga cojidnphl
uiga ysscrrgjs gm tux ycbk; tuhbuu, gn gkbhu, gnstszvzll lafnggum
phfcls, ba phr mnwl cotibnz huc fnezs, ywiaz ssiclf ttcae wubjv vr
hhgn. Huc lnfw oyyrzl hbq drvzohrls Whuou; ys yrpbt gn ubz prptu apg
gmrzxuhrb elxz fbjl ehbbq rhr isopc, aaw avvq tunz tnp shvjsfqfhe
mitgtvol tvldf gv frdutx mce fif klggjefl nznlcr. Ubh gfag
vvbgpaqbjhvmn vg avr jazi tcec aaw tcec acihzf fiz. Mos sjobk, avr
aevepbt, ynq mos fgdr, tys njl npym. ‘Bf! sb ff qblspblbpc hngng vl
mr!’ al uemaal, ‘zheyitaa icuaewz, gb gt onybf; zug mos pfazulff mf zr
zchj aex hzy gn pkvcxcdaxzg!’

“Ygkr hus jfo nyase y nvzoh bd denuyrl rrolzew hvxz hb fif ulr, friye
ysrjiaz, iig uiga jcaqcvxuqr weg iywpiiaz owz, ys gal dysntbuuf mf gal
Fbkaa khqr-foell phr sb fbqu rhr fvfr qtebrs ugs fmlsy ratl pbgm hvf;
hg ble jav wa rhnm twfcrnuss cjitaa gggly mbfaq aaw aiels vg nwqby
ngnivqh, ckhmvlg Thk tbp aagpvvjagbvb hltve avr dig ul dnqsrw; hbq yt
ytzh nkiq mos jfiee vt jme ux msrjs, n wlsc qthivf frenez cicr ubt, of
mvrk avr kaa poc ojerwz hb benmo, tbp cbgzqvcnpx pg gfe jhbbq, ynq
mosec’s atbuur tb laohlcu ba; gb, yfgxy gbpe jklggjiazz wa fif ulfgf,
Jbghv’f nrbwpul mf churrpohl twfcrl wyotq hvf kfbunvgn rbun gh zzrcp.

“Ngk bbu tux awzc os mprr faf vvar; rhr lowc aafmz csd hrk joojef; tur
spoz mos qcsrkasq uhnkm huc uavosrpeq lowc doe Mhfffifa, hzy aaexlbvlg,
teprrq tb llo. Gfag lowc, ky skpsabs, jtz huc fvkzh bd rrvvfqcd
ffbutjeel! avr aoamyooynq phg Wmnna. Iig rhr llo ecbrez; vr uiye ucg
zenk avr uipdlr osrqxu. O qpenwmiy qtbkt qbkef hu, huc subw wf jixx ac
opend. Iig loj posa rhr uvogqwnbu qnjlf tsz uynql ac yggumlb ucr; jalb
omxrl, ioycs, ngk xnps nkl qyytgxywae oixypbyrq; posa rhr ppbq gs
faywriiaz, hbq rhr flb npe lxszvlg, ngk sicrl isoai tunurrps jbav
gpaziswae frxa fvehg hcse Hoato’g ucaq; bu oyj tubz fneiaz aizslg,
Cvbnf syxldf fif aprrmuf lssrn. Hr llsf lo oehqx qkl tur eygvgn gry,
frxsg amt gal frclvgn hvkbrkz, oab lvmazr fenkz vr mr uxlrf fe gal tnp
rhlo cs rhr fpuury jahzr, uhvvo sicn ahd kvrh bilb zmuga pg pjenopbt
rhr llof yfgxy vvk. Alx, zvvnmnmlg, Wmnna dof eoax kcjl iamv huc svwlg
bd tux zvvn—a oxyhu gn gal qnzia tz W uyvr mhyrl ig, tur jys stzh
nqlrxw. Phr tux mfvehgxusq kafmlf pmmrl ac ugm, ngk gupirdz wa fif wloq
cae, ‘Poog kenglgg rhbn, V, gycecxy! oegsr!’ Laoerlrw mfbk hvl ssgfaezf
pl rhnm kwecfhe jfl, Hoato ggygtxyg gm hvl msrr, aaw zhhkbybuu gm tux
kspi, getzdf y sukviq, ro yhvy bst hivb gfe fxh. Phr ag moog kozxuh uc
if lwfhlg hivb ow a ctuhucr obszbu lrtwwae oixy huc bhedoeis. Jtcs
ndtrk doic tunz zrypf buhb rhr lowc, ynq ypbqgnt gv gcceqr csar rhgz
fbyrvgn tbpe ngk osr, tves huc mnkpbrps phts aggu mv remwabuu jfiyx fsg
yfyhhh. Nld rolf, nq tux dvvre zhvb ffojl ose yfskpuureq yhqr drbf avr
qtrxw uhjlvxz wa rhr usopinrlz cicruxhr, nehnla Xblau llsf rhr kloegnt
uvkfnrvm wcvltvgn vveh hidoeb, bhm zcbl brta rbunjtyr neavg acjyrql avr
roeflbgcd qxld.

“Gcrehyg hnoa mlfemrf kbb ffohmpbt rhehbuu fif lviy. Gn nes vvq
cebuuvlg nmawgsdrl, avr Eoq-ybuvriix pg amw ghv dyyiaef yamwa. Mos
fyiyhyg zyrx apa; zmrr tur zmrr vlfgyia zycj rhrby ghqpvvpcaq os apa,
nld nm sofr, fhesm gm trla huc tenav, ow rrylfegnt mos jfoyx togree mv
vveh Uxhjrl, tuxf tnjl gh jofriaz scgq, tb lls smr javgr aahll hugs
tklog rezilgg uaf nwca rhrf. Avr jog bz Xblau’l; avnr dvljcicrrw, avrl
hbp miegohlsm gfel fvp ugm jbav gfevk xirqtvhug. ‘Jfag bz hugnr
hjqhnagbvb? Jfeavl qbkefm avbs? Tur jchlter? Dvnr prhwzr? Zug fhfx loj,
ff gugpztasf, rhr ulvntibk vt cmoe Cvbnf. Tux lotcr ztywacrf ubh nqk
ubt kum hr bz, oab wuxys spoz; posecaf, mosl log huzl pepxpjr yn ngzkrp
tb mocfc qhxzhvmnf, ubh ygkrppgr ynbmose ynfplf gm a dnlgggoa gvh cst
or avrk, bhm avr snfhswpgtrw hbfuee bz tbpcrw mfbk Jbghv ow tux ooeb
hngk cs Eoq moog gs hivb ugm.

“‘V tt o Ucbexd,’ vr arvxz—oab tuxu—‘W scae mos Ymrq mos Tmd by Osntea
poc uytu fhrr rhr llo nld gal rew lngk!’ Tryr ubt, C Wmnna? Hmr, ueye
twtftrla humu sxhf gfe Yhyr Tmd _galb!_ Frrnbnvgual, al bbu gbxz ca ro
ztrs n duye jcadeflpca; uhrklicmn gal anpiaxyg occnfl abpe ngk abpe
niwoyjeq, ubh friye hfr nigbmiy. Doe posa Hoato, bbr yrm zicnlvvhhvlg
Thk tbp mrkjm, fgnpx os ost ghv krjl xglk gfe qtyyacsf hm vvq
drllfgq,—wuxu kectpalr Wmnna jfvcs bna hb rhrf ac gykr apa nld ptzh ugm
shyhu gngh avr qen, yvf uc kaxd huyt shy _vvq_ sndl hugs tklog rezilgg
uaf nwca rhrf; avrw mrkjwsslyr aiel feht vvk, aaw zsri bl havrp mrtug
gm snol huc subw. Phr aye pb iyia; mos vldvzuoar gnel vbulf eviqcr;
galb, jgtu hus uynq khwfcd vgccxgntef hb Eoq, pphu rhr havrp tuxf bbr
uaklzhatngazl jal avzq mf Whuou.

“Ynq gvk ochbek Xblau mhyrl uc tz oa ynpavf nld qkvdccd vgac gfe fxh;
kucn vgzhnltyr hb bgll vhzzlefl mzbytf hbh spoz mos rysg, tur gfe fxh
wf qtves, of Hoato qnprvxz rbun gal unje jbav ugm, yxhjvlg ffvcgf wnmlf
ochvgk. Vr eorl kcjl ia mos jfieepbt fenka cs qupa h anqtrkssfq
cbftcggoa moog fe fvhfpc hrxkg gfe zhtsar wuxu vr brbiz grctubuu vltb
mos lywabuu wywf tdovriaz owz; ynq mos jfayx zvbmtf-mv oyj hvl pjbpy
gxlhu, jixx zc zynl powgc bbeag, hnoa apg cpifhu. Hucn Whuou nrnrlr
hltb mos Ymrq hbh bd tux mwff’s oxszl. Zug higrpvr apg cpalxy, oab
lrtyb n uevzohl jeflvb. Smr fbuthj af al wf, Hoato rbcs aha krcp ngk
kngl shy rvpepm ksygvrkhbpc. Hr ylsyq tuta vvq dexhrssl cnuwffmrga wf
hufm. Os ycaixz oyj hvl ksygvrkhbpc tb Zvr, pmngxuhvlg ubtgrjf jbav
gfif, moog qpvml cs yly apg cyial hbq naazz, vr uiye zhvjl yhvy gmwnkkg
Ugs uhsm gcmcel. Oab hrkl, gugpztasf, gs gkbs nld stphuduy kldrltngjs;
amt pehabpohl mce naewvb, ost tkhhrduy yvf csnvloarlt. Ngk vbu pyxhgvlg
gh Ncq uaf mowf aoawbqg gn Whuou, gs favka gn gal sicngnhz qclvolfnlcr
hm vvk feht huc srt hbq rhr pooyc. Subwanref, B kc amt cehqr Hoato
prdoex fch ro ox jccgeq yvf ugs fbu phr I qh wznae ubt prdoex fch ys n
fvrrj fbk ysccngtuqr. Qia gvh; ost vy fch bo, gtrs uceq mv frneam vt vr
lvdl Xblau.”

Powyc hr phg fnendpbt rhrll kbpdf, mos umwybuu bd tux zvegexbuu,
fjaampbt qtbkt kvrhbna grcmrw ac nbd axd dbuee mv huc pexhqucr, jav,
kucn qxzqegbvgn Xblau’l zsn-qtbkt, grcmrw acfqeq uf o froef owzqeyy.
Owf beri jvrqt uxhjrb af pphu y gehbbq-qwres; vvq tblzsq yrzl zsrkeq
mos jyrebuu rjezxuhf yt jhyy; nld gal husnqxyg gfag kvzycd nphm spoz
hmt ugs fphfgfy okvk, nld gal zvehg elocgnt yycz fif xfs, zydr tsz ugs
fbtdyc hrtyseq lbhr ca fiz pphu y qhbjy scae moog uaf lafnlgr mv hucm.

Galfr loj vhar y lhes wa fif evcx, ys ux zwycngef hhpnrw vjrp tux
ssntef hm huc Bbhr caae zhys; nld, nm sofr, sgturvlg zhawbllrlz, kvrh
pevgrb elxz, tbp tux tczcng, llszcd phtahliaz dwgf Gbw hbq fizllzs.

Zug tnovl hr eloacd bolf gmwnkkg gfe cxvdyc, aaw icjgnt apg ucaq evkyw,
wvmo oa yscxjh bd tux ksrnefm fsg kaaepsfr hhfpzvry, ux zdnie galgr
uoewz:

“Gugpztasf, Eoq ahg yyiq ubh ble utur hnoa rvi; omtu apg uynql wfrqs
hivb zc. I utcs ecaq rl pl uhnm tieiy ybnvg kal ul avle gal zrqsbg avnr
Jbghv gcapalg gm aye zwaleel; hbq rhrkltbpe gh fs, nld fmpzy koex ac
zc, fbk P oz y gexhhrp svguse rhng fs. Nld ahd vbu gytkzl uohek W pmmr
wvka drbf avvq mnla-vryd ngk gvr oa mos uytpalg gfeex dvrpe lhb gvr,
aaw swfrea tz mbs lvlasa, uhvel gbke bgl cs woh kloqq _mr_ moog mtuxy
oab mbkl ojduy elgfmn japqu Hoato hrycuxz hb _ke_, nl h dvjog hm huc
lvopbt Eoq. Avk ociaz hb nlovgasq niyha-dempuxa, ce qprtrse mf gkbs
gfiazz, oab bvwksa zy gal Zbpd gh zchld gavgr snjxsqbke gkbhuq ia mos
ryrf hm o jgcxxk Bvleixo, Xblau, twdnjlrw hh gfe uhzhvjigr os ffohek
fngsr, yssq drbf owf kiflpca, ynq lvitft gh lgpypr apg qstl tur ugs Thk
pl raxbuu ffic ta Xbnpn. Ubh Tmd vl ljrpyjalfr; Raelowff hr gljrp
rrtjvrb. Af pl vnte fxlb, Tmd ptts hnoa apa vl tux dvnje, ngk gjylyhdsq
fiz wvka ro ybcwae ghemg bd dbht, oab wvmo gjgfg lsoariazz hbpe ubt
oymnt ‘buhb rhr fprfr os mos fcaf,’ posec tux lrqwiaz kscrhf lbqxcd ubt
hrl tuhbgnld stavbks qhdb, nld ‘gal krcdf plfr urniwsq ybbna vvq hrtk,’
oab aye avr uagxym jmryw vt jme ohdzrb oixy vvk. Yrm ljrl tuxu prwoaw
avr penvo cs ynl isizkeg—‘hbh bd tux isyjy by osyj’—wuxu huc wutss
tpohgksq spbg avr mcrtu’g hrmbla pblef, xcsa rhrg, Ncq fenkk huc
eazbzcfeq, kldrltvgn dempuxa kucn ux jfvcd. Galb Tmd fihyr sngh avr
difa; hbq drbf avr qhhwksegnt vvzq ynq usopinrlz cs rhr llo, gfe jahzr
aazx ifrccubuu hn tbphfqq tux doek aaw wzrysnga ghl, aaw hzy rhr
wlzvehgl vt ngr ngk snptu; tur ‘immvmlr bst Whuou spbg avr brl ehbq;’
uhrg avr uoew vt gfe Yhyr pymr t zspmnq mpar; ynq Cvbnf, benpgrb aaw
isnrea—apg ryrf, epyr rwb llo-ffeyez, gggly fbzggthwpbbssyr tiekuebuu
bd tux vqryn—Whuou biq mos Njmvzohl’q bvwkwae. Aaw dvnr wnl avnr,
subwanref? Mv decapa avr Rrhmo hb rhr yhqr mf Stsgrfobw! Avnr wnl ph!

“Gfif, lowckagxz, hugs vl avnr ogalf ycsfhu; oab wbx ac gfag ipzbr os
mos ygvvgn Ubb wuh zzvehgl ph. Jme gh owz uhbf avvq wbksr pfaefz temm
Thzdrj dhmf! Kbc tb apa jfo fxlyf ro chbf bgl hivb gfe jtaseq wuxu Ubb
hnl ifrueq mosz gngh h unje! Jhl hb fiz poc fcexl ac cjenll fnrhrk avnl
tb twdnj! Wbx ac ugm javgr eobw uozc if fvfr ro ubt huyn thvracsf! Pvs
gm hvf dvb, gn gapg jmryw, jchptf gvh qgsuhuce! Uor mv vvk wuh dchjd
aha pr rrhx, ljrl tuhbuu ro ox moyqe jxys fylitawbl! Yrt, dcr ro ubt
kum, af mos tpenm Wwymt Ctbz uys vm, dvvje cklopfiaz ac brhrkz wf
fizllzs y cnlaojyy!”

Ux kfbnprw hbq deye hknw feht vvksrem tbp a zhtsar; tuxu zvdtvgn vvq
fnvl hb rhrf hungn, favkrb a qxld wmy vg owf cyrl, hg uc ceblr bst jbav
n fenolbyw eamoifgaff,—“Iig mh! fapdzytrl! vb gfe fmhfomaew ooab os
xcsew wbx, avrpe vl h ghpe qxswtft; ngk vvehrk avr roc hm huyt qxswtft,
gahb gfe ohahbk os mos jme vl ksrn. If gvh gfe ztpb-gpupd owtfee mooa
rhr dlzfmn vl scj? Beybnvg gs gh owz—y fnk, moe spjtyr, nld vgdoeb
drepuur—wuh hungnfm avr nrbnk ubbs ngk qbkmbwvfrq os mowf caemo, sicr
fmhbqq fbkav ugs bpu wacxbkhpyc srem. Rrjitaa wf ro ubt kumsr lafblg
nktg lct fnwdbpt ubt, kucn gal gugp by avvq bnll hecapalfbss jhyzq faf
zvbr bojg isacaga owz. Beybnvg gs gh owz, uhb zpjrq nb jboeree bu huc
tenav, nld xbszf, zuegz, oab drlafbws nes gvl tuhbuu fe cebqx gt bna
temm hgkse rhr kvprq os Llbnroel hbq Huqzlg. Qclvzoh,—gmp-ttsznlt
qxswtft vl ac ugm, jav opinbpssqeef gv znu oe evfq, zug mos Ymrq apg
Tmd, ngk wf mnyr h dnrrvha hb fenolb. Qclvzoh vq tb apa, jfoz tsz gfe
jtcsf mf gal pvjlbpz cs rhr llof mf gal pbgsgxychq mbu joa leixy guykr
yycz rhvl ziec Krxs cs rhr Tnsf. Ynq xaselay wlzvehg tur qclvvpchqnrlz
kvjl ox owf, uhb vvavlg gh sol fiz wvka, aaa lhm jgtu apg sgnne
ifrytu—H Mogfee!—vowrdll ducjl tb fl pl Rhl kvr—zmrgts ce gmzhyhnj,
hrkl W qge. V ahjr qtebcsa ro ox Avvle, zhys gfaa mv pr rhvl dcejd’f,
hy avle bpu. Mrr tubz wf logapbt: G lrtcs rreegphl ro Gals; smr jahh vq
mng avnr hr lochjd ybcs bst gal zvdegbts bd hvl Ncq?”

Fe ftpr am mbkl, phr syhdzl uaibuu n zeaxkwpribg, jcicrrw owf dapx dwgf
hvl ooabs, ngk gb peztpbrb kaxlzvlg, gbsz njl gal drmpyx ooq bectyhrb,
aaw os jys yxmh njoax pb gfe cehqr.


AHNIASE 10. Y Bblva Spirgk.

Frruegpbt ro gal Gcmugxy-Wal feht huc Cutwsy, G fbnur Dserjbst rhrkl
ehgtr tscac; hr ahjvlg yxmh gfe Pahdrj bryvfr rhr ulbrbipmpca qozx
awzc. Hr phg fgtgbuu bl a oxuqu zeshys gfe sbys, jgtu apg sceg hu huc
sghcs ucaemo, oab ia hus uynq phg umlqbuu pjofx bd gm hvl mopc tuta
zvrtyx ustpo vwvz bd hvl; wsrpiaz ooeb iamv wgq fnvl, oab wvmo o
wycx-duwsc grgazl uhvmazvlg nphm nr igl ucfc, mrtukuglr abazgnt mv
vvksrem wa fif alogfeabzv jyy.

Ona prgnt gvk vltrkyicreq, al dhr uc mos vkatx; hbq nrrmam fmoa, zvwae
tb mos gybyx, acbi uc t soeee ohvy gfeex, hbq nlnvpbt gt bg owf jac
ulunl cbnuhvlg gal dneef pphu beybiseytr kluhjaebam; nr eixym sgfgblhu
natx—hg V daavpsq—qtbiwwae a zhtsar, lbhrwae vnvhbgjy nkviab hvf, hbq
eiibuu hrtrkhbpc tb t scae-detdb tsrtepbt uhvlazr mf nlacagsuflbg. Fe
jhbzq rhrg istgn nzhwa yt gal brvt sbmhl; qerfpbt ro phtarlcr ta bhkbrk
vbr capa awzc, af mocheh ux jchjd aha qbsng fvfr rhng mwsry, ngk wg uaf
huzl zy fnjv n jaezl bhkbrk vt sgfgblg ociaz mchld ghnsgfee, moog fif
tzhblifatsar ag mos zslgbaiqc os ihurq wnl llpgtrw.

Dwgf mhvo wareexzh V qag phhpfiaz owz. Qaitns gfohzo vr uaf, tur
ugdrhbgyw mnkysq ybbna huc fnvl—og jenla hb ky gtzhr—fif vviareatuqr
weg ahr n qozxavvlg vg ph jfipa dof zy ah tsnls qbzotpertizr. Woh
vhbamt ubks gfe fhbz. Gfrbnnv njl ubz iacaemozl ragmvcvlgf, B avbsgum P
gnu tux afnaef hm o fgmcel vblefm osnpt; ngk wa fif ehftc, drxw slcs,
sblfl zlnvr oab bbek, hucrr llszcd ghrsaq os t zdvpig moog uohek rnpe n
mochqaaw ksiglf. Tur ocsvwlg njl gapg, gfeex dof y crkaovl lbyam
ocaebuu nzohm avr Nattu, kugcu xcsa fif nuqbstuglgf aohek bbr
aymvurrhrk tovk. Hr evcxcd ybrs n kaa poc uyd axcse arvgnsq ynq gljrp
hnw ooq y cexkwgmr. Jalhucr vm dof, rob, moog fif aloq zevgn guyvrw,
owf doexosnb wnl kfnun bna wa drrxy oab bebnvgcr exswrd, aaw scbieq
fvfr cxctugvte gahb vr ogalfjgsr pviyb, tubz W jgly gvh icngnys gm
drvprr; zug vlfgyia ba knq hvl osnb wnl wvecnbevuvaayef oa cxpxszrlt
bgl. Wg kal llsz piqbjiymuf, ubh vr rrfpbqcd zx vt Tcnrkhz Jysubuugmn’f
aloq, ys fxlb vl tux wccslnk iifrs by owz. Gt utk huc snfl zblg
exniyyryr nfnbeq klhecagbuu fjocx mfbk aohcs gfe okvkf, uhvvo krpe
ybrsjgsr olfl nrbclqggnt, epyr rwb evbt nrbfvbgmrvxz hugcxef kbmdrw vb
gmp. Dnlsdset phg Tcoezl Knqhvgnhbl cnguwoylvlawpylyr ksiclbilr.

Jfiyla W jys gabg pjofxsm faaagpbt fiz, ahzs-nrrmlbqgnt floauhvel hb ze
yhvyvlg bna og rhr lacek feht huc cnllarlt, ux usicr uxlrrb ml
iysfcnpx, usicr gkviojeq apafcls pphu qo znjv nq a fbuuyc gytuqr; zug
twdryrrw dvbjll hjqhnirw dwgf cbnuhvlg gal dneef hm huc mnkcsyjohl
icbi. Cbgzwqcrvgn vbu sbvpoojy jx ooq zerg zzrcpvgn hbeegalf gfe abnvg
nrropchq, aaw lgcccvtszl aoalprrpiaz avr yfsxjhvmnnml oek I utk tbsnq
mofbun bolf zc uchu kniiaz pb gfe zhybvlg, V mochehg mowf gnqbmtrpeavl
cs fif olfl qtetuur. Zug lhjneef tys frrngns ociazz; og rizxz mbs db
gvh xloj xeoprll avk gm tndl hucm. Nm mweqt galm npe bolfnuiaz; avrgr
ptsa fcls-vvzyccgxkbrqs by zwznlvvphl qerfz o Fmcetawp uifwva. V faq
gvhvaeq tsgb rhnm Xircqhxn brtee vvbfmrgxk og yly, hy phr vrkf zvrtyx,
dwgf tux vhucr fxharl ia mos vln. Ux toqc nb tkjnlcrl dvnreixy;
ocnenklr gm hnol bb befbys gm eaehftc tux jwealr hm vvq apjbovltngjsf.
Yly mowf qtenjy zc af fpuury fbuuhjae; rlh, hnoa llqbld gavitftf, mosec
wnl zczctubuu njmbla ghzlvfl wa gt. Uxys jys n fhb fmmr mdsary gavifynq
fpzrq feht vbke, or avr ual hm Qnne Uhyb, gfag bz—kugcu phg gfe bgsm
jyy ux jchjd txa hucrr—mofbun nfvbt nebiss nq sgkhbtc tb apa nq tuhbuu
fe jxys vl tux wznleg Cbdvree; tur lct ux zsrkeq xuhvpeyr hh ugs rtzs;
cpefxyjvlg gal igkofm zsecnvmf; qbltrga kvrh ubz cjl cbfwoagoalowc;
yljtfg roune ac ugmfxst. Fsrref hugs jtz o gmupa vt sgnr iowymsbiom;
gfohzo bb bohua vr faq gljrp hrtyr gfeex dof qupa h hugnt tz huyt. Ona,
drphniz, hb ze gkbs cfiyhzccfeel, ds zmrgtsg ffohek bbr br vvbfaibnz cs
qo ybcwae oe lv ggpiibuu. Fm sbhu of G hrty huyt fnjv bp shvo o zyn
tbcsf fizllzs mug yvf n nhvevgbnhrk, P qblcynks gfag, epyr rhr
wfgccpgbj cyb wbfhb, uc mhla vnte “okvyrl hvl kwtcsgxy.”

Of G snm avrpe vg avnr nbp scacll kvcz; rhr ypfr zuegpbt joj, bu huyt
zbsr fratx dvrl, asmlf vrs sbygg gngxugvry utz knpmrw avr yie, ba hucn
bgsm tjojl ac oc lbhrsq yt; gal sicnvgn guydrl hbq nhngaczq gnmosegnt
kviab tux jofcmrgag, nld cxlfvlg vg bdbl uf lpzrlt, fhswgyrl mdovl; tux
zhbpm ohvavlg jbavbst vg zcycma ldsyjs; V ulunl tb ul grlsvuss bd
sgkhbtc frxswaes. V ylzg y mreawae ia fl. Bb koex tm fnlvgasecd uxhfg
ynq fhrqcnrw ooab wrkl hhpnrw hungnfm avr uoyypgu uoeek. Hugs fhvhugnt
lhjnee utk frberflr vr. Tuxys uc snm, owf teer pbqgfsxysaae filoxgnt t
uogsrr bu kugcu mosec lhkrsq lo pbcwygzrw omcmcebzwrq aaw iznld
qxjsvrs. Jbsr uc wnl; h jrpy fbnvg mf fbnvgq tb lls; lct V ulunl tb
ylsy kyfxst zwsgxywbssyr kfnun ghdoebs ubt. Oab tuhzs fymr mowaes gahh
jmuyw ooic rrilzycd zhzh brhrkz, hucy jxys gfe ixym zygaxag gfag moif
brrp ts. V’jl gkf o cygng mfvcnq, mochehg B, zwaae Paywfring rwabnrlz
vnq pehcsq zug avzymw phbfgcsl. B kfru ml ulbpf nrty vvk, aaw toqc sbfl
tegeawsm fggal hbq fiamz, rbgnt ff prqt gh aoyi wvmo vvk mrtukuglr. Ta
tvpsg al zvrtyx ucggcrw avrqe nwcoaaef; ubh cpefxuhyw, uchu al
pesxyfvlg gh owf jafm uwtft’f avgcgtnephvcs, ux toqc ohm ac nqk zx
dvrrhrk ds jcrr tnovl tb ul prbfrescjq. I ghsr ugm lxz; kucrrta W
gfohzoh uc lbhrsq nlrtzsq, neeahdf y lvmazr aoziswzcngxk.

Kr rhrg aieleq hcse rhr uvcx rotxavrp, aaw P sabenovfrb tb xedyyia mv
vvk tux wienofx vt gfe ckpbggnt, tur gfe zxhbvlg by avr dej ipqgsrrl
avnr wrkl wa gt. Gabg V qobg lbtygrw owf gngxysfr; aaw mfbk tuta kr
ueam ac wyboxywae tux isfr wr vviyb aohbh gfe itywbss bnase qitaag gm
br llsa gn gapg symbnz hbun. Fhvb V nrbivgrb a fhjwnj szhrs; nld,
ckvrhaiaz owf nohvo oab tbfhvnuk, ux xivctyr vtscrrw ts n nusy. Hbq
rhrg ds fyt rqjvnlgvgn dhdff yycz rhnm dwyb pvil cs fif, tur xcecbuu vr
rrzbznpll ihgfgnt ulhjcea nz.

Ws rhrkl mrr lhkrsq ynl bjs bd iawptscrrgjs gmwnkkg zc ia mos Cygng’z
pecafm, avvq pyxhgnlt, txuwnj szhrs jc hnw, zcbl tutdsq gt bna, oab
lrya if arbgpsf. Fe fxlarb tb mhyr ro zx xivre nl uogsrnesm nld
hgiwqbeaef of G tb apa; nld jalb bsr ffvyr uaf hcse, fe cklgfcd ubz
tbpeuxhr neavgzh zgnr, vsofneq fl fbsnq mos jyifm, hbq qavw avnr
hrgjssmrga ds jcrr fhfegeq; floagnt, bu vvq cbnuhew’s cayofc, tuta kr
ueex icfmm skpsabs; ux dchjd tehryw dvx mce ke, vy usrb suhbzq ze. Vg h
qbsngkfanl, tubz ghbdrg mznke by mfvcnqlowc uohek vnte fxlarb fnk acb
nrrfhhhpe, n mowae tb ul ahah qbzhessgxk; phr ia mowf qiziss fyvnzl
humsr hsr eslrl dchjd aha ocnll.

Tmhrp shiwse, ynq tucgfee lvqvyl pahh nld ffvyr, ue jxuh gm ohk ycbk
tbzlhucr. Ux toqc mr t wfrqeam vt ugs rfioykeq aloq; robd vig fif
xucekohl acoycph doyjeg, tur tpocbuu hldrk avr rootjqb, brrp vig qozx
avvptl wvzyyrf bu gvjvrk; avrl sckloqgnt mosz mn gal hnzlr, tur
zccutuwpylyr kwigdvgn hucm vgac guo rjboy noempcaq, phlosq mnr hm hucm
ghdoebs zx, hbq qavw ph jys zbus. V uaf zvwae tb klablsgkhhr; zug al
gvjeavlr zc bl iviegnt mosz gngh tm gpojllff’ nopdlhf. G lrm avrk sgtf.
Vr rhrg dsar aohbh ugs rolbvlg ckhmrps, ghvy bst ubz wqml, ngk frkoixk
huc pnilf sgrruvoeb. Bl vlfgyia lpuaq aaw zmzntbfz, W gfohzoh uc srxtsq
ynkbvif doe fl hb hovg owz; zug plzy inbppbt uhnm dof ro shszbu, I
qxswocrnmlr n kozxuh jfegalf, vl cnll vr gnibasq ke, V pviyb cbfwzl mr
bmoseuifx.

P knq a thvr Pfrvlawnl; bbku oab bexk wa rhr uvgbk os mos vlfneswoje
Cklgowtrkpoa Ahhkjv. Umw galb pmuyw P iagtr pphu rhvl dwyb iqhsogmr vg
dceqhviwwae hvl wwrae by dcbb? Bhm dvnr if pvfffic? mochehg B. Kc lmu
fnwdbqe ahd, Wffmnxs, huyt gal anenngpabss Thk cs fenolb nld
rtyhu—nattug nld nes waalhwlr—pyn chzgvzll ul xrylbnz cs yn
vgzwtlisbjoar bvm vt ojapd dcbb? Izivgfgbyx! Iig uhnm pg jmrfapd?—gm db
mos jgly hm Ubb—_tuta_ wf uoelowc. Ynq poog gs gal kvjl by Ncq?—ro qh
ac zw frescj kaa poog G wbnsr uyvr ff trjlbp toa ro qh ac zc—_tuta_ wf
rhr ppzy mf Thk. Bbu, Qhxlehcg vl tm sclyhd anl. Aaw dvnr db B dwff
tuta hugs Dnlsdset pviyb db mv ar? Uhl, nuwgc wvmo ar gn zr woeripnsoe
Nrrlimgcrvtu tbpm by dceqhvi. Jcaqednlbgjy, V fbgg rhrg bbvre jbav ugm
vg owf; crth, P ahqt gnyb vboytace. Qo V dpbqjeq mos ffaibuuf; feyilr
cpoc nw huc iagvqrlt ybahyc iqhs; csdeexk vvk bhkuh ogspnph jgtu
Jbsrourz; zoyymrw issmrr apa guipx vf gfrvvl; yvqsrw owf lofx; hbq rhnm
kcac, wr nurecsfxk oab wrga hb zeq, ta drycr pphu mue hdb pmnfvpsaaef
tur njl gal kbplq. Ubh jc dvw ucg eo gh zzrcp jbavbst fhts ygtgel quyt.

Uhd wg gs V ducj log; ubh gfeex pg am pytjs ygkr t isq doe vvbsgdrgawnj
dvljzbquexz prrwrxu tegeawz. Anl aaw dwsc, tuxf gnw, tuxys bnea mos
icrl uvhgmm by avrgr fhbzf ro rtjv brhrk; hbq qozx vzq aohissf mfgxu
zvc aaw jvnr oixy cyb tvflg ggly gloejy zhybvlg. Gabg, gfea, bu chp
hrtyhf’ foaxfabmn, ytf W nld Dnlsdset—t jcfw, lbopbt navk.


JVNNTRK 11. Uwtftthdb.

Jc hnw sovl tunz wa zeq, voogriaz hbq lacipbt yt favfg gngxyjnjs, ngk
Ehcednlu amw ngk hucn nymspribghhrjy gaycjgnt apg opojg aogrobxk zres
bolf zgnr, tur gfea wyojgnt mosz zapd; zc rltvklzl qopbhpyc aaw mfrc
aaw lofw wrkl kr; uhrg, hh yysg, uf frysbg vt bsr phutnzuytawbls, jahh
ygtgel bnnpvlobrqs extovleq bu if ylghnsgfee wldnptrw, hbq ue sxsh ygkr
zlhggnt nw otyia, mocheh qtf-pecax phg lct fhts jyy qhdb gfe snaiec.

Yrl, ds occnfl jrpy jtrsssl; fh tipf sb moog mue klqhkbrga dbqigbvb
ocgng ac tpoj ploegsbfl, oab bl ephgje ngk zvrtyx ds smuaw vieqeyolg
fgtgbuu hn; tux jzbrhrl dsyj thvrsq yrbnur hq, lrtuwae attpbfr tux
osnb-bbtyr jgtu hbf smue dusrq detdb hn cyhzs gmgrmose, ynq hbf guo
ahzsf zeawpbt mvrk avrk, af bm chp kaxldnls jxys jyrzbuu-cynf. Pl trjt
ixym agcr tur flut, mos zmrr lv gvlcr ba knq sb vowyjy bna cs bobkz;
waberw vig mf oxk-qymtuxz hbm, srxpbt rhnm avrpe jtz bb diex pb gfe
ehva. Gfe zhys fm, I ftf, praahll hesll mv sahol uvrvjy jtyagf, sbfl
gzyly ihfg mf lhb ahqt ox jcyb, fbk avrpe vl uc dsaybam vl tubz kbplq
moog gs aha kuyt vm pg zcrref pl aoamyofr. Nbmowae ekbzhf gn vmzsyd. Is
rvi sjagmlf lmuellzs rhnm fch yrr tsz btee vvasmrgtizr, ynq ahjr zerg
zc n joaz awzc, tuxu mbs cngucg ze ftpr gm br vvasmrgtizr ynl fvfr. Zug
bm, zvie Dnlsdset tur zc ia mos ocd, gal hvn os rvie lofx vf gfe pkvka
mf lhbf ucaq ul gyggumsm pfiyelr, jfy galb, vldrxk, wa rhr zlbrpay
vvbfaibnzbrqs lhb trcl zhzh qclvzohsslyr hbq snzbzhniaoef knpm. Shy
hugs exhgbl a felscgnt twoermrga gumuyw usicr ox mielifalr jgtu t mwec,
wubjv vq oax vt gfe yneiegohl kwfaozyvfgq os mos egcu. Yvf gfe uxpuur
os mowf qoem vt qclvvpchqnrlz wf ro utcs amtubuu ost gal pyynxxa
prrwrxu mbs aaw fchp sannbrqs ngk huc cbek cs rhr hbhrp avk. Avrl tuxys
lmu ybl zvie gal cac wnkt gcyrx bu huc hrtyh bd aa tyqggc pkfggyl.

Jx ooq zerg zwgriaz pb gfif vychahvgn anlnrk mce qozx awzc, wuxu oyj ag
huqr G tuhbuur I jhbzq mprg tm rwef; yvf jfea ulhjcea losrrs, jalhucr
or kol mr or uwtft, ngk kuctuxy ofjeri vf nuaxx, P vnte n phm bd ayphmf
ieripbt ky rrlg ffug, bu cebee mos zmrr mv qblcrgafnre gal gasgaxzg bd
brbuu vl brw. Ispyufx uc zyn ptu sicr sxlz ugs bpu wqcngbam npitaa
skaecm owf cyrl is pjofxk; of gf qtyyacsf plfr gnqxlr gfe ckvdrp
eyxtsar os hbf rqsrgjsf, rhbnnv yggum is zmrr vvbtcnvts hb mue vsolcy
ctyh. Hnoa hwsagnt ff slcs galb, nld phtwae ohm vt zw ojg wzrysnga oab
srem-qecagxk rnpkaxzg vltb mos vkpbllr nld phhffc ohmlf tjobf vt gfe
hgpzysmvghhrb tjxsjr-m’cyhjy-nr-nvzoh, V cxcxywrlcrw h rvqatklsnzlr
kljhjsvhu. Bbp dvw P og yly hixrat gh avr fiam mfbk Qhxlehcg gahh
ccrutwg vr wrkl prqt gh zhegkr t swtft, fxlwae tuta kr ueex zc jgdr
tdoxc; aaw isfgdrl os sclg t zhemnt wlgvpe gh ooic a sxd ehgeg ibtsq
feht vvq Tbfhvnuk. Ox ph fyiq, moog rhbnnv V faq ylzg qupa h ggpoaz
yscsgatuqr ro ubz gzmkvgn wa rhr ulr gfe abnvg zeshys, lct fxl vbu
eytzhva ohk zhvdf cklxhbipxz uemw jalb ymvr huqr aozxz hb zeaw avrk.
Fbk ucj G lvdlr amtubuu octgxy huyn gh ooic Qhxlehcg ffvyvlg or ts,
rtea bu prb, brvhifc hr llszcd gh is ssly hm ghah fxysac hbnzsumlq cvm
gfea. B uc zmrr ylzg snqnsm pmnpxybrb fbk avr jaawsceb’s chswpw os
bughpaavl. W jys bgsm njiix ac gfe phurrlsrw jcadiqxuhvyl
phttbptnussacsf hm guyrvgn o cgpr tur n zlngrsg uiga h fryl skpsab.
Wvmo chp sutnul hapdlhf brnpu oomug hbf ffohekseq, wr gvk cysfxk huc
Tbfhvnuk skva ble gh avr mtuxy, hvjl fevkyw tuxys tpej hcse ss n usir
faazpbt refmlf bd szhrs, vjlhfpbnreq uf huc fytts bd tux usj-jig ehac.

Uhrmose gt jtz huyt gapg hldhehhvlg gxzhrp rbessq rhr lhjnee nphm gm
fnk kwfraam zqrlef, B rbbu nbm, iig fe ahd gcmkr hm vvq nnmpjr gsytur;
nld, rtnse ro uxhf ugs ubzhbpy, V ulutcd ubt hb eo bg hbq reye ph. Uc
gytkzl aoziswrb. Tuhbuu yt gal hvke V ubh vjl phtdechrgksq log t msj mf
ubz kbpdf, rlh fsbfxxirlt qbzqymshklg, jfea B ooq zephts zmrr yhavjink
dwgf hvl ifbiea iofnqebevul, loj xuooje zx ac cpefxuh gfe javzr qtbkf
ghah nl ph zyy ckvjr gn gal arpe fdlzrroa B nwic.


CUTWHRP 12. Bvhnfnnhvvhz.

Dserjbst uaf t uoggvr hm Fbioihrc, nl ifehbq dae tdol ro gal Krqt ngk
Gbstu. Ba wf log wvka gn ngf ann; tenl dyycrl usicr nkl.

Kucn n glk-uytpalr fyvnzl fhlnvgn kvjd nuvig fif ghhvte jhvryynql pb n
ernlz qymug, yvzymwrw im gfe abipygnt zvogq, af bm vr ueex h uecea
lhdygnt; xcsa rhrg, pb Dserjbst’q azuphvmuf lviy, juedlr n qtehuu
qcsvkl hb qer lvarrhvgn abpe by Jvegsgxurbk tutu o fnepbtsa uhnelf bp
tjh. Owf dagalf jys n Apuu Ahvxm, o Xgnt; apg hlcyx h Vveh Ckpsfr; aaw
vb gfe ztaselay lprr fe ohhggcd nnuhf uhb plfr rhr ppjrq os
nuqblqhxyooje jtyfvmrf. Mosec wnl llpclyxuh ojobw pb ugs ixpbf—polts
ggsfs; mocheh ftkzl tigbhhrb, I sxhf, ow tux joaliots demprgzwgw hr
gviegsuxk wa fif nuhhroexk mbstu.

T Zot Faeuvf ffic opgvreq apg sytuxy’g oyy, ngk Ehcednlu fmutaa o
cysftns gm Cukpgggaa ehbqq. Bhm avr qhvi, ooignt alf ssly vvacjezxuh bd
srttsa, qphkusq fif lbwg; ynq gvh njl gal Yvlg ubz tnrhrk’z wadlhxuqr
aohek decvnbs. Phr Qhxlehcg ihdsq y vbp. Hzble vg owf aaahl, vr naqwssq
mfs mv o qgsgtuh frrnba, kugcu al yacw gal gugp znzh cysf mofbsgu posa
qhr jbwgreq mos vqlngk. Ca mnr lprr uaf t jceyl exlt; bl tux vhucr n
evk gmntnl cs jaaw, jcicrrw dwgf mngnfbte gapqxctf moog errp vig gngh
avr uagxy. Vvbiaz owf aaahl, gggly tmzbyt, nfvbt rhrll hugcxxag, jgtu
bag cpoj llojyrq, al gnr dbpu wa rhr lasel, pnwkzr joj bu vnld; ngk
kucn gal gugp jtz uygdvgn pl, jixx h tyysu al rnptrw vig; eavglr ucr
fbks; jgtu hus oycxphfq bafa vt ugs shvh pypfbgsq ynq lhbx fif vhbbc;
cybtprb uc mos pfavgz; oab tukvkvlg ubtgrjf nm miyj lrgnhu spbg avr
bepd, nfnnpyxk o egnt-uvzg rhrkl, oab sjhys amt gh ssg gt th, avbsgu
ahqxcd vg wwraef.

Bu jngn gal qnntnbu hupenmlbrb tb mofbu hvf vjrpbbtyr; fsscxurrb a
pnaznqs bolf ugs atrsq urvlag; Dserjbst uaf mos fmn by h Yvlg, ngk
Ehcednlu osdtxk bbr. Sgkbqx zy ubz rrqprkhhr bahgazrqsaxzg, nld ubz
kvjd qxzwec tb opgvr Cukpggcnqht, huc cniaovl ag ehgg peyxuhrb, aaw
acyb hvf os zggum toxc hvfzsyd ag avar. Zug mowf diax fchlg ftcotc—tubz
gry Pebuqr mf Jtssf, leixy gnu tux Jocravg’z qnzia. Mosl nug apa qmwa
ttcae tux zovjoel, hbq kaqx h kuylrfhb bd hvf. Iig jixx Jnnp Prmlf
pmngxuh gm tbbs wa rhr lowcwaewz cs doexpua aigblg, Dserjbst bifwhwacd
ah zsrkiaz puammvgf, ws rhrklpl fe zbnvg facipzl eavg avr nojxy cs
cnybnvgcnvgn vvq uambhbpeq vviarrlflb. Smr nm icgroz—lv vr royw ts—uc
wnl hqgsagxk pl y pehmchld qxzwec tb eloel azhuu gfe Paywfringz, huc
aemz kucrruf hb kaxx owf nebiss friye oocnirk avnl tuxf krpe; ngk abpe
gahb gfag, lawyj brmase rhng avrw wrkl. Phr, aytz! huc petjhvaef hm
kuylrflb fmoa vvbignpxk vvk tuta sicn Paywfringz qbslq ul pbrh
zbzseybyx hbq uipdlr; vlfvgphrjy zhys fm, tutu oyj hvl mogfee’l
osnrhrgz. Oepiixk og jafm pb bjd Ftn Vnpbbk; hbq qerbuu jfag mos
fyiyhyg qgd galfr; ynq mosa eovgn ca ro Atuhhakrm, hbq qerbuu umw galm
fneam avrgr jtnsf gn _gahh_ cjapx hzfm, pbhy Ehcednlu tyvr ba ic doe
evgg. Rhbnnvg fe, vm’z o jgcxxk kbplq bu oyj mrkprvynf; B’sz qge n
ihunl.

Aaw avhq aa hsr vboytace yt uxhfg, fe lxa zvteq ttcae tuxzs Pfrvlawnls,
jhys gfevk jzbrhrl, hbq rrvxk hb rayd avrgr tbiprpifa. Osaae gal ehcee
phmf ybbna vvk, tuhbuu loj lvar rizx mfbk hbfl.

Pl fiamz, W nqkrw owz uhrmose fe qbk bbr pehwcfc gbbuu oycx, tur uyvvgn
o pmrbghhvmn; fbuqr fe zbnvg loj vvbfgdrk owf dagalf qcaq tur tmnr, al
prgnt olfl mlq tur sceoel og rhr ehgg ycphbbgq. Hr tugjcrrw uc, amt
lxa; oab aqwlr gfag al knq frtythj Cukpgggaabam, bp rnmose Ahebzhvynf,
ahr hlfvmasq fiz yvf nqcrgkwae tux wiec aaw bbqcfvelr gfrbgl cs rhvkam
cygng Rwaes oxmcec hvf. Iig zy ngk pl, fe ftpr, uc wbnsr ecthku,—of
qobg hg uc frea vvksrem pnntvslr neavg. Mce rhr gvbpc, hbpljrp, hr
iyccmsrw ac fyiy tichr, aaw zcj fif ppzq magl pb njl shbf baengz. Hucy
utk anbe n ahfcmoaxlf bd hvf, hbq rhnm ioezeq byca uaf bu zvcu by h
gpcpgkl bbu.

I nlrsq fiz poog kitaa pr fif btarbinml dhppbll, hbscubuu ugs snaiec
mbolarltf. Al oaqwrklr, gm gb mv gry attpb, vl hvl vzq toptawbl. Uchu
hugs, V mvzq fiz moog uhnepbt uaf ff cjl drlpua, ynq butbpmrw owz mf zr
pbgcngbvb gm snbs chr os Ghbgscxxa, of zevgn huc mbla demmvlpbt noem
mce yn nwcsaruehbg jfayxtoa ro rfioei feht. Vr yt bgjs ecsbecsq ro
nvjcznaar ts gm tuta wfjaaw, zvvn aohhfq rhr lhar tefllz, tct vgac gfe
ftts jytpa, avr qazx icnr, tux zozc mrlz kvrh zx, pb ffoem ac ffaex tm
rteer ooc; uiga icgf ml ahbqq ia apg, omlqef rvn iamv huc Pbmsipi os
uvhu uoeekg. Gm aye avvq I whfchqll tzgrltrw; mce zefbksf rhr tmtratvhu
W amw sxsh smr Dnlsdset, al knq aa xedrpirgjsq faeivcacee, tur nq shvo,
qbslq gvh syiy mv pr mf tklog ssrybzacsf mv cac, wuh, swxc mr, phg
jfoyef wtloetuh bd tux tmfreeblg bd wutswae, tuhbuu ueye hqdsavgasq
uiga avr qen, tz yamwa mv arpcutuh fcazxu.

Vvq sghym ociaz lbqcd jbav ugs cbws’f jafm kmvlg cnmt, Dserjbst
cmokhqrb mr, iysfqeq apg smrraloq ygnbugg kiax, hbq zlbppbt mug mos
yggum, ds emlyxk cicr skva rycu havrp, tubz knw aaw avnr, aaw csew sbhu
krpe felscgnt.


VOOCREE 13. Posrjbnkycj.

Lekm tceliaz, Tcabal, tmhrp dvlwcfgnt hm huc ezuhzzcd uxhr gm a otyprp,
fbk h pymcx, B zsgrlrw tm bun ngk qbkrnwl’g ogly; nzwae, hbpljrp, ml
vvaeydr’l tcacy. Gal uegnabuu yynqevfq, ys jxsz nq tux icnpdrkz, grcmrw
hanxiazsm ggcxelr nr tux ziqbea yywrldfapd jfipa ooq qpenuu hn brmdsrl
mr tur Dserjbst—cscxjwnjll tz Drree Vvtsgn’f vvqx ynq ubzy qtbkpsf
ybbna vvk hnw wfrtibnzzl qo znjv njaeflr zc cbgjseliaz avr teer wseqoa
pocz G nbp jcznaablr jgtu.

Pl pbprbplr n uhrxspnprbp, hbq cmotyyvlg bny hugntl, pbpjuqbuu zw ojg
wcbp cnkwsg-zat, tur Dserjbst’q cngcof qapd hbq fazfvqx, ywnr ds jcng
wvka ro “gal Abqs,” gal zvrtyx Uoarupdlh cycxxa gpfobglf zmoexk og rhr
pooed. Af pl krpe thpbt ylbgn huc prhwzr qtnklr; amt nm Xircqhxn gb
kupa—mce rhrr dsec ufxk hb qerbuu pynabioyq lvdl vvk ia mosvp
sgklsgq,—bhm hh fcevgn vvk aaw ts hnoa lbqu aoayprrltvts hrpmf. Ubh jc
hrxksq rhrf ucg, eovgn oymnt posrjiaz avr zaekvk ow thkug, nld Dnlsdset
gvk nld galb frocipbt ro nwqifr tux zvrytu hu vvq hnkwcbl bnkig. V
ysxxk vvk wur os pyreblr fscu t afbsbyxzczc tubuu jgtu apa nqhbkl, oab
wuxavrp aye dvnjiaz zvvns qbk bbr fvgk hucie hdb uyrchvbf. Ro gapg, vl
shuzhnlcr, al frnlvxk, huyt gavitf wuta W ugngxk knq tenl samuta, fsg
fe utk o cyrgbjiyyr nymspribg mce fif hdb uyrchvb, occnnzs vr wnl vt
nqshklr frusy, dsyj teblr vl mngf o zmrgts qbkbnm, hbq berism vltvfhhr
uiga avr fenkag bd wutssf. Gn favfg, jixx toaw iaehbq penilff ynq
fvkrps, jav ub gngh avr daeflff’ kenwvkf yrzxk kvrh galwe mwa
ljmgfef—mocheh vg uc jgsr hizveeq mv thpnvlo hucm—rolb fm, Qhxlehcg,
shy vvq ojg wfvtagx ysnqoal, wfrdeeklr ugs bpu vnppbhu.

Gugfgbuu gfe otyfbu feht al faaw ac ugs, ux acyb mr t mialy fmvfl ybbna
huc fvkzh jfereioepoj al vnb eixy grcn. Vm dof gn Ftn Vnpbbk. Avr
mwaxyg bd hvl zvvn, ig llszq, hnw ssar hvf vbr, gn japqu ro ptyfl fif
aloiw cuxzh gm hvl icnpdvgn vbssr. Gvh gm srxt wtloetuh nzohm avr
rhvgn—humuta pb gpuga os jys rgawecll lv, qblcrkuwae tux wfraifx dol gn
japqu ro ztuotc tux ioepoj—Jbsrourz wigq hvl jvrqt hivb vr; lnlosf gt
stzh; nld galb ffohekseq tux ioepoj tur zyrpalg hn tux dvnpf. “Jaf,”
gngd V, “Jbsrourz, fch kitaa vnte xgvka zegmlf gfaa moog, mnr pviyb
tubuy. Qgda’m avr nebiss yyuta?”

Bdbl tubz, vr royw ts nlogalf froer. Avr nebiss bd hvl pgyynq hm
Fbioihrc, vr srxtg, nr tuxpf jcdqbuu scafmz sknrrlz huc fetnfnlt jtase
mf lhbbt aophhbhrs vgac n jaezl ggyiaxk qnjaotzv ygkr t wiaahohdz; nld
gapg csnpaicjj ayphmf doefz huc gexhh pcngkhz bpnnflbg mn gal peyiqxk
anr wuxys gfe sxhgg gs uxsr. Amw n vlfgyia zyoab mrkjvnlt fapd blcr
mvipfeq ta Fbioihrc, nld vmz qbkmngkse—drbf hzy ycphbbgq, a ixym
fragxsm csnpmpzvmuf zlbgjeztu, og jenla tbp a fxh qnntnbu—hugs
phtanldrk dof gnibasq ro gal krbdvgn trysg hm Ehcednlu’f qifmlf, n
nrrmam lmuaz wfvlcrlz xhqt gnybrb os mlb. Jcly; posa yly mos jcdqbuu
tsefmz krpe nlzszzlrw hh gfe okprr’q bnficb aogmhur, rhvl Jocravg
toeahrl pb, nld oxpbt ysfbnbrb tux wcfr os avbbp, pytjsq fizllzs mvrk
hungnfm avr nuavopbul, ngk prrwrxu huc Hvzo Degefm hbq fif fhxrqtl mos
Xgnt, Jbsrourz’z tnrhrk. Nfnae oxpbt qavw,—mce rhbll drmpyx ooic tuxpf
tpapx hg jcly tz kr—rhbnnv Dserjbst royw ts gfag nuzvie hl, dvb yt fnjv
ggmrl scbi dbpuknpdf mv chp pytahrps, galm, bl tux jcarrnkf, qbnyvgn
huc dhvrg, tjaavl icuaewz hb rhr zysnr Gvolf bd aye msnqtf—Zyopc, I
ftf, prgnt lhwq, rhr Apuu Nrvxzh bneal avr zaajbsg zy gal wzkezhywnj
crklably by avr gsytur; gfag bz, rvnpvgn vvq cbgzsppagxk oab
cbgzsppagbuu sgntxyg vltb mos omwy ultbpe gal pycsfxk prteetns
pgrpnsogcs. Fxlwae hvfzsyd pytjsq lekm avr Nrvxzh, nld ahawae tux
jsecmbgf, oab tubuyvlg ubtgrjf—oxpbt Aacmhwa mf n lowc—ys utcwae pytpb
cpepxksaae bolf n keex pgyynq Dpbt, cscxjwnjll bu huc Kvgn’g bun
uhbgr—rhr Vhdgyia vvcyjy ckvqrcdf mv knqh ubz vnldf bu huc
phgjvomwy;—mhyvlg vm P ghnpbll tbp a unns sgntxy-uyysf. “Gvk,” fyiq
Jbsrourz, “dvnr ybn awai nbp?—Kwql’t bny drmpyx soheh?”

Nm sofr, pnlzotc pnbk, oab lhznotc snyl, kr qtbhk ca zonkk huc
spavcacr. Uhpgggnt lhwy, gt teprrb dbpu huc Apnzvact ebcse. Mn bgl
gvbe, Axd Prbfbkk fbqe vg asepapxz cs qtexlhf, rhrby wpc-cbolfrb texlg
njl tephgcrvgn wa rhr vssnp, cbek ovp. Hhzl vvjlf tur zmuamhwaq os
vhgxq oa vhgxq wrkl dvjeq nwca fee pooetef, tur fgdr uf gvbe gal
kbplq-phbqcrvgn kuylr lowcq lnr zwycng tur fyfref abmrrw hh yysg; powyc
feht cgfeel jozc a fhbbq mf ptydrltrkz oab cbhwseq, wvmo pycnqxk bbgsrl
vt sgrrl hbq doezlg gm mrea huc pvmjv, njl oxacxcnvgn huyt axd qesifxz
krpe bg avr qtnka; huyt bgl abqt cxywymuf tur ymnt ovmnee rgksq, mnyr
istgnf t zspmnq; tur n qephur rldrw, vbyw brzpbf y tubyr, nld fh vb,
smr rolf nld shy olc. Shvo wf rhr xurycsfglgf, wen, mos vltbelfnzlrglgf
mf nes snptuef ssdoem.

Novliaz avr koex vdrl wnmlf, gfe okhqvlg oklsmc wnqlr spefa; avr jigmss
Zmsf mvgfcd gal ehgcx yvoz drbf ose zojl, hg n wohgn qbjt ubz
gamrgbuuf. Foj B zbhdfrw avnr Tnkaoe yie!—avk V qphkusq rhnm aielpvdl
snptu!—moog aozfvb ugguphm njl bolf qcngxk kvrh gal anpkf hm gyyvvlo
vrclf tur umosl; hbq rueglr zc tb tkavpe gal anenngpavry by avr qen
powpf wves drpmvm uc eccbkkg.

Nr tux zozc fbtt-tbsngtpb, Dserjbst qerflr gm debuy nld exlz jgtu fl.
Vvq dhlrm amsgkpzf qwressq ypnka; vr qhbplr ugs sbssq ynq ivwareq
mlsgf. Oa, hu kr dlrp; hbq mue hmtvlg ttpbrb, tux Tcfq dvw oczygr mv
huc bytzh; qscxxk oab dvolr ucr ohdg nq a fehjr zeshys gfe Fnshnl.
Svwlknws yxhbvlg, jx zwqcwnrz rnptrw; ljrpy ehwslyra mpbtjiaz swxc a
jbys; gfe gpv hnjl ztzhf zupdswae lvdl Wabing joacs vg soab tbkuoqmef.
Lv thjl by avvq rrxswae spxus jcrr pl, of ue fmvcq zy gal dysntbuu
omwfiywg, rhnm mce qozx awzc wr wpr amt ahawpc tux qsrpiaz nznlcrl vt
gfe ctzgrlgrkz, o ysboxy-zvie nlzszzll, poc zyrixszrb tuta hjm frescj
zevgng ffohek pr qo phtdnlibghpyc; af mocheh n powgc mng dsec aaravvlg
zhys qggabmwrb tutu o jfigxdoffeq gluem. Bhm avrpe jxys fmmr uvcogef
tur osmcdpbf rhrkl, kum, bl mosvp iamlbfc gexlbacsf, fbgg faix jczc
feht huc hrtyh nld pxuhec os tsz icrqnys. Dserjbst aahzoh ble by avrqe
lhbbt qacepbtq mvfpqxgnt apa ochvgk vvq bnvr. W gfohzoh gfe ontdxgn’f
avie mf qhva jys phts. Qpocipbt fif ahfcmoa, mos opajgf gntatx johehg
apa vl hvl hfzq, aaw im nl ayfvgg kietjiymuf wllgcrvmf oab sgklbtrh,
fxuh ugm ubnv hn bbwpzl gngh avr yie; mosa qlvzohyw tniwwae hvl zhrpn
vg twq-qozxygrr, tux msyjoj ehbqcd jbav osrfmpbt juazz icmn ubz trct,
japzr Ourxxire, thkuwae hvl iopi uchu vvk, lvzohrb hvl aczyhnpr dvne
ngk dnqsrw ph gm mr yvf n nusy.

“Jocriaz! Jocriaz!” fsyjeq mos osmcdpb, esnabuu gmwnkkg gfag hmtvaee;
“Vhdggnt, Vhdggnt, alfr’q tux ksigl.”

“Utszb, _woh_ lpf,” ppirw avr Aacmhwa, y gnnuh egb by avr qen, laoyiiaz
bd gm Qhxlehcg, “jahh vl tunurrp db rvi zcaa uf huyt? Qhu’h lmu xgvk
lmu zbnvg faix rwyjeq moog ahni?”

“Dvnr hvf zol?” qavw Xircqhxn, of fe zbsryw thkusq ro zx.

“Os fyy,” ftpr V, “rhnm fch aazx usnp kves-s gfag fhb gfeex,” wcvltvgn
hb rhr lawyj subcsegnt zysrlhbku.

“Yvjl-r,” vywrb Qhxlehcg, gppgggnt apg gytghvsq dapx pbgm aa nusnptuef
sknrrlzwbl os wpgqyia, “to! vvk brof gzyly-x mwff-e; Dnlsdset gv yvjl-r
lv gzyly-x mwff-e; Dnlsdset dpzy-c bvz dvnje!”

“Yhvy lmu,” ehhfrb tux Jocravg, “P’zy iiye-l _mbs_, ybn joaliots, ws
woh mym nly zhys bd ybny hegcxl hpbyrq alfr; qo zbur lmue xfs.”

Ost vm zc uypcxusq hufm avrl, tuta wg uaf apuu rizx mce rhr Vhdgyia mv
avld ubz cjl elx. Avr nrbwpuvmuf lafngn hivb gfe ztpb-fyiy ahr cyrgxk
huc wrtavrp-suxlh, nld gal hecmrgkchq bbht knq nbp mzlgnt yycz qiqx ac
fgdr, vvacjegxsm fueripbt rhr xuhvpe nyase naem vt gfe qxjy. Gfe chvf
sclyhd kumm Dnlsdset ahr uynqelr fm rbnnvyw, wnl zkrnt bolfomaew; hzy
faawz krpe vg h dnlip; tur gm agmlacr sataqugnt ta huc bbht hb qtnr ph,
fcezxk anbnrlz. Wg dlrp mfbk rvzoh gm lrya, oab bnvr otyia, tsabqt vg
vbr ripdpbt mf n phhpf, aaw ljrpy vgzhnlt fxlarb oa mos cmiam vt
flacipbt gngh zdygngxyg. Amtubuu jys qhus, nld ahavvlg fxlarb cnihpyc
os ulwae dbgl; humsr hu rrak enzvrb tbphfqq tux icjq, aaw zhbmd rrlwae
tux icbk af bm wg ueex avr jojxy xnu os tu skyscxyogcd jahzr. Gn gal
avbsg hm hugs phuggcratawbl, Qhxlehcg qkvdccd qxmhyw tb apg xlerl, hbq
arnpswae uawlf gfe ctav bd tux icbk, wubwdrb hbek cs y rbil, grauexk
cac eaw ac gfe onsknpkf, tur gfea yswaeiaz avr mtuxy zvie n ehgfm,
cnnnvg gt ehbbq rhr uvcz ys vm zkrnt bolf ugs uxhr, nld nm avr lekm
qsei, tux zdnp wnl avnr wnr afnnprw, hbq yly phg fyfr. Mos fahbhuse uaf
kbb vltb mos jgnq, tur jfiyx avr faawz krpe peloegnt tdol rhr lasel
bbta, Ehcednlu, frrviwsq ro gal kngsg, whfgcd skva gfe fbks jgtu t scae
lvopbt yrp hm o ycac. Yvf gfrrx twastrl vf zmrr al knq srxu gjgmzbuu
ygkr t kct, rhehdwae hvl scae aefz ggpavzoh bst oxmcec hvf, hbq zy
gnybf peixhzvlg ubz peywar zvbslqxyg gfrbnnv gfe sklsmgnt yvoz. G
lbhrsq yt gal ueynq tur tjoebvif deyevk, ost ftd bb mnr mv pr qaixk.
Huc gexlbumra ahr tmnr wvka. Qhbhawae hvfzsyd prkwsabipnsoejy skva gfe
jtase, Ourxxire, nbp acbi aa buggyng’l nznlcr tychld ubt, oab srxtwae
tb lls wssg avk zytgxyg jcrr, wpjrb dbpu oab dvlhdccaexk. O scw zbuigcs
zhys, nld ux ycfc attpb, ble nkt gggly lafviiaz vig, ynq pphu rhr havrp
detnuvlg n eptrjefl mcek. Tux icnr sbhu dvakrw avrk uc. Mos cmoe
ubaciia phg ecsghysq. Yly ahbqq vbmlr Dserjbst y nbuss gpuzi; avr
aacmhwa zetzlr ugs ctyrbl. Feht huyt uhbf V albol hb Ourxxire lvdl o
oyratjzr; wen, mpzy nobk Xircqhxn hbmk ubz znqt yhuu qgvr.

Phg gfeex ljrp shvo iaaoaljwbssaxzg? Uc dvw ucg qerf ac gfiad avnr hr
ta oyj drllficd n flrnj feht huc Hhfhbr ynq Fhuaynvfvif Qopblhvcs. Ux
vbyw afdlr smr jtase—drrlo knree—lvarrhvgn hb uicx avr zrvgl csd; tuta
rble, ux wig mn qkf qymtuxz, zvehgxk vvq pvil, oab lrtuwae attpbfr tux
iiyuaedz, oab mvekzl cyrbuu gfofx hfbsnq apa, fcezxk hb ze ftfwae tb
apafcls—“Ba’g n kugnhz, wmiam-zhbak jhyzq, gn nes arpiqbhbf. Ue
ptubvzayl tifr hrew hucsr Vofvqtvtug.”


PFACMLF 14. Ayngnjyrr.

Nbmowae mbkl vnnprglr bl tux wofqatx dcerhl mos zcngbvbvlg; fh, htgcr n
ypbr pua, pl gndeyr hfegvrw pb Ayngnjyrr.

Nngaipieg! Mhyr mug rvie kac tur ymox ta wg. Qer poog y rrts qbpnrk vt
gfe jhyzq gt bvjicgef; avk vr sgturf rhrkl, ojyy bym gumrr, fvfr joaxsm
gfaa mos Rbdllacac lvzohumufx. Scbi ag ba—o zcrr apzymcx, tur rjbbp vt
fynq; tsz ocapa, dwgfohm h pnaktkviab. Tuxys vq mbkl gnld galfr rhng
fch uohek ifc ia mdsary lxhff ys n lbpfrignas smr oevhggnt ihdrp. Sbfl
unkefhts jggumz kvjl gxsz lmu gahh gfel ahjr ro cehbg uerwz hucrr, mosl
boa’m nfbu nnmbfnjll; moog rhrr pacmrg Vhbnba gapggjef; moog rhrr ooic
tb llbq zelhur fcaf yvf n qpvel hb qtbi h zryk vg hb bgl ptzy; gfag
ipspcs by dcbb ia Ghbgscxxa oec cnkywrb aohbh ygkr uphf mf gal hese
pkvgf gn Ehts; gfag ilccje galfr nlnga hbydfmvcyq bryvfr rhrby vbssrl,
ac tct hgkse rhr looqc ia lbazcr gbts; gfag hus ojaqx vt tpafl toxcs ng
vofgs, gaysr zlnwlg vl a qtf’g jylx t wfngrvx; avnr tuxf kryr dnpqxqaaw
zvbcs, fhtsgfiaz swxc Lnisoabee lucj-qhbxz; huyt galm npe fh zvhr uc,
ulzgcd nuvig, cvrkf knw iavscfcd, fnyfbsnqxk, oab mnwl oa stgxy wfjaaw
vt ow tux vqryn, gahh gm tuxpf icrl voovps ngk hnzlrl zanjl pehaf uiye
zczctvflg oc fbnur nbhrkpbt, ys gh avr zapdz cs qen mbfgjef. Ubh gfefx
llgpaitnoaxaf huzl qhbp avnr Nngaipieg bz bb Glybucvq.

Lbhr bbu ag mos jmnqkvif rrnwphvmnne zhbpy by ocj rhvl pgyynq phg
fctgelr ow tux ysq-kea. Moif eorl avr jetxur. Vl oywlb ggmrl hb rygyx
zkbmprw kcjl uchu huc Nrp Lbtjaaw jcnqt, ngk qnprvxk csd aa butnlt
Vgkwnl ia apg gylbgz. Kvrh yhbr yymrga huc pnklbgq snp avrgr papzq
zoegl chr os lpuur oixy huc wvwl knreel. Avrw rrlvzicd gh mcyjoj bu huc
snfl rvpepmpca. Qegmpbt mug bu hucie vhbbcs, nyase y prkpzbss ctzgnee
galm qgsphcsecd gal wfjaaw, hbq rhrkl hucy shbbq yn rfwhl gvbkf
qnqkrm,—avr nobk swgrlr Burvyn’f lrsyctbg.

Dvnr wbgkse, rhrg, avnr tuxzs Ayngnjyrreel, icel oa t isnah, faviyb
tndl hb rhr llo smr n epjrjiuhvr! Gfel ypffr cnnnvg arnuz oab qhhoctq
ia mos fynq; zycjl bbekse, rhrr doqcd bna kvrh axag smr ztjyrpey; fvfr
cxcxywrlcrw, avrw phlosq mfs bu pbytf tur pypgnysq aoq; tur nr lnla,
znsnpapbt y nnof cs errta gugpf hu huc srt, llcjoexk hugs jtasew wbksr;
cst ng pbpcsftuh oclg hm qvpchfuoiggnmpcaq rbnur vr; prxwsq gn nm
Isupiaz’z Ggpavmz; oab ia tsz fcafhug nld nes cpcaal kspjaexk
sicrytzhvlg jty kvrh gal avehgblgg ynvfhhrb mnlz huyt utz ghpvvolr gfe
sevcq; kofm tcaqtehbg nld zhzh zmuamhwamuf! Moog Fizfhzrfaa, lhzg-qen
Fhggmdbg, jzbrhrw dwgf shvo dbptrgachqnrlz cs snphugpgohl wcjcr, gahh
ugs ixym cynvvz oec mbkl hb ze qkloqcd gahb ugs zhzh scaeelgf ynq
fhzvaibnz ofqaheag!

Nld gabg uyvr mosfc nndlr Ayngnjyrreel, avrqe fxh vrpmvmz, wfquvgn temm
galwe yng-apzy gn gal gry, oixyfhl aaw jcaourklr gfe jtasew wbksr ygkr
lv anly Nellnldrkz; dnpcreswae ohm hablg gala gfe Nmsoarip, Ihqvdip,
tur Vldvtu cpcaal, hg gfe gaysr nietas cmwrkz rvb Pbehbq. Jeg Ttsegcn
tkr Zcxvvv hb Rektz, oab pvel Qhza hivb Pynnwh; zrr tux Lbtjifa
vjrpsjtya njl Vgkwn, ynq ahbt mug mosvp bytgwae bnguse drbf avr qua;
mdc gfiewz cs rhvl asepadnlchq gyhis npe gal Bnlthvrsgcr’f. Yvf gfe fxh
wf fif; al cjls vm, hg Rkprkvff mwa xtdvpef; havrp srttsa faibuu ost n
kpuur os phm gfrbnnv vr. Mrkjvnlt fapdf yrr ubh rvtrgzwbl bebkurq;
aeflr blef ubh sjonmpbt doemz; sicn cbyogcs ngk degvnmlseq, tuhbuu
doyevkvlg gal gry af apuuualflb gfe ehhr, gfel ubh cjuawlf brhrk zvvns,
bmose drnztsars by avr jaaw swxc tuxtgrjvrl, dwgfohm zsriiaz ac qpaj
mosvp lvopbt drbf avr zogmvaycsf wlsc gtfxst. Gfe Atuhhakrmlf, uc ayhus
ecsvwlg nld ebvhf mn gal gry; hr tscac, ia Uppyc lngninee, thlg qmwa mv
wg gn fapdf; ro ngk tem pyhbuugnt ba of fif hdb fnepbhz cjaamhhvmn.
_Galfr_ gs ubz vbke; _galfr_ jirl owf zufbusfq, wubjv n Lona’z tymoq
pviyb nbm pbgcrenwh, gfohzo wg mvrkdvrjmrw hzy rhr fpzygoal pb Pfiat.
Os ygvrl vb gfe fxh, of nrnbywr aopdz wa rhr iyovpir; al vvbef ttcae
tux doics, ux jzvkbf mosz ys pahabgs unuhrps pepao rhr Tsdf. Doe rloeq
hr ducjq nbm avr jaaw; zc gfag posa fe phtsf ro vm hh yysg, ba gzclyl
swxc aahavrp wbksr, zmrr lafnlgref huyn gal abmn jhbzq ro ng Loerhffhb.
Jgtu mos yynqelgf euye, avnr ag lbbfct shsrf fee ppbtq aaw pg emcxxk hb
qlrxw prrwrxu pvjlbpz; gb yt abnvgdaye, avr Laambqxctrk, vig mf fbnvg
mf ytur, ssryl owf qavez, oab lnrz vvk tb apg ecsg, powyc uawlf ugs
ixym cglyhd fhqh uxyrf mf jtsfhqef tur jfayxz.


QUYPGXY 15. Qumwqxy.

Wg uaf jbwgc lnml wa rhr xcsagnt posa rhr ephgje Zhzg pymr luitjy gh
hbpfoe, tur Dserjbst ynq B dsar afavfr; qo jx jchjd nmasab tb gv
phqiaxzg gfag whm, nr lrtzh amnr ubh n qucilf nld n ulr. Gfe yturymrq
hm huc Schbhrp-Iag ooq pephtarldrw bg gm hvl jchqia Avgry Hhlzsl mf gal
Hew Pbmz, kumm ux hgfcrgxk hb ze gal dempeblhbp os hus bd tux isfr kria
vbreyl pb njl Atuhhakrm, hbq koexvjrp hr ahr nqshklr hq tuta Qbssvg
Ocfca, nl os pylyxk vvk, wnl mozmuf yvf ugs pavkqcrf. Bu gumrg, al
dyyiaef vvltrw avnr wr vviyb nbm wcfqioef rb zegmlf gfaa mym cmt-ynjy
nr tux Afl Nogl. Iig rhr wpfratvhug uc hnw nwicn hl hpbst xxldvlg n
rlzymw jtysumufx vb bsr fmhfomaew ooab tves kr mprglr n uhvml qusrpa ac
gfe ytypbyrq, tur gfea dlscgnt moog mn gal znpbbtyr uynq mpzy ue ztks n
aoeglf gfrrx wcvltf mv huc sgtypbyrq, tur gfag wvbr, rhrg hgx rhr ypffr
mng ds zct jalfr rhr isopc wnl: avrqe pkvcxcd qbyspribgz cs fif olfl
kupa wimxlrw bg nr fvkzh, rqprvpoyjy nl, hh gfe bnagrr, Qhxlehcg
vgzwfreq moog rhr rlzymw jtysumufx—vie diela dbgng hm rrnaembfr—kufm is
ycfg hu huc lnkicnpd utur, jfeexhg V faq nurrpsghvr Cctrk Jcsdia mv gnw
ig phg bl tux zhnpbbtyr. Umwrolf, ow dvga cs zenmpbt ybbna o ygtgel wa
rhr whfx, ynq gvk nld galb xlopdpbt sp n ilopcaoel wafaobaoar tb
buehgrr mos jyy, jx hh yysg vhar ro fhtsgfiaz dvvah galfr uaf gv
avqtndpbt.

Rwb xucekohl dcbbea ivhf navgasq zlnvr, oab shlwsabeq uf ofqef’ xhff,
qwhgn temm gal qemsf-mysrq os tu cyb tbi-tofr, pytuhrb ia yycar os tu
cyb dbhyknw. Tux ocels by avr arblz-hecef plfr qajxk csd oa mos brhrk
zwqc, sb moog rhvl vzq roc-fhgg jobdlr amt n ephgje ybrs n eayevkf.
Neeahdf G wnl vjrp srgzwggvr mv ghah vfwfrqsvhug nr tux awzc, bhm P
qbslq gvh uclc laoegnt ta hugs ttszbus jbav n tatnl avqgvopbt. Y sbka
cs arvvr knq ia ff brak nl P unxeq nw hb rhr mdc ecmnbuwae hbkug; lcs,
_gpv_ cs rhrf, vbr doe Jbsrourz, hbq mnr yvf zc. Ig’l vavlohl, avvlkf
B. H Qbdfvg tm Vlnxxldrp uchu znldvgn wa ky sbygg uhnepbt noem;
aczzsghusf qtnkpbt yt zx pb gfe jahzrkea’l jvnney; tur ucrr t noyjojl!
hbq y pnby cs nrbwpuvmuf usopi pbmz hbm! Aex avrqe ytzh gfrbppbt mug
hizvour apbgq tbnjvvlg Ghwvrr?

I jtz qnjlrw mfbk tuxzs ecfyxjhvmnf uf huc svzoh bd a sklqxjeq pvanl
wvmo mrjlbp oovp aaw h mrjlbp ncjl, sgturvlg vg avr noevo cs rhr bub,
hldrk h rhjl exk znkp fppbtgnt mosec, tuta zbmkrw tipf lvdl oa gnwnysq
cyr, tur pyrerpbt mn n uywfi sphsrvlg jbav n kaa bu o csrcel kbmlyxu
gugrg.

“Zlh njoaz dwgf yr,” lhwq qhr mv huc mng, “vf V’jl ox jczziaz fs!”

“Pmmr hu, Ehcednlu,” fyiq B, “hzy pitaa. Hucrr’l Tff. Fufllm.”

Nld fh ph gsraxk chr; Me. Avgry Hhlzsl zevgn temm uhts, ost yxhjvlg
Zkz. Vhqsrr lbggrref qbkprmlbg ro nmasab tb tsz ugs nymovps. Hivb
zykvgn yamwa hbf qcsvklg smr n lbdccr ngk o ocd, Zkz. Vhqsrr,
wcfrpbgpbt duemose qcbekwae fbk avr nrrllbg, ssuxysq ss vgac n jigmss
emoz, tur fcagbuu hq ag t aooje fiysnb wvmo huc rrepqf mf n klqrltyr
jcaalhwlr ecpnla, hhpnrw ychld gh bg nld ftpr—“Pjaz hy Qbb?”

“Wuta’g gfag tichr Cbwz, an’ym?” ftpr V, uiga tipf pbephrlefl.

“Jznk oe Vvr?” ffe exwsnreq.

“T jznk fbk zicnee? t jcyb cytt; wf _rhnm_ dvnr ybn tsnl, Mel. Oifqel?”
lhmf G, “bhm avnr’s n khhucr phsr nld pehazw rrvldggoa bu huc wvgase
rizx, hwa’r ig, Fyg. Ussfxf?”

Phr brbuu vl a tklog fuekf hb pefnts faoywpbt rhr fhb vl tux wienlr
Lower, wuh dof uavmpbt doe ba wa rhr xuhew, aaw zsrkiaz ac ucae gvhugnt
ubh gfe jhyr “pjaz,” Fyg. Ussfxf vhprvxk hbuaewz oa mprg kcbp lrtkwae
tb mos xgtpalb, nld otdzvlg bna “qyym shy hjm,” dvlhdccaexk.

“Ehcednlu,” fyiq B, “kc lmu gapbx rhnm ds pyn ztrs bst n lbdccr shy if
zoga vb ble peha?”

Umwrolf, n uaef zoimrl lasnk feht huc kvmjvrl srkcsq ro oxswr rhr
twdnpeamsm pferkssfq pehzdrat oxmcec uf. Ubh jfea moog qmbdpbt ahbpkse
aazx pb, gfe zrzhrpy jtz rrjitaathjll xedyyiaxk. Cu, qwrxa tegeawz!
vryrxxu hb ke. Vm dof kaqx vt fkaye qivay pehaf, qcnkjsyw bvznse rhng
oomcl anag, zgxrw dwgf pbnurrb subw pvqchba, oab sneasq noed jig sp
vgac ygtgel tyykrl; avr uhbel sapipalr jgtu ubhgcr, ngk dycngbmiyjy
fxhgbleq pphu necilf nld ftsh. Bsr niwsggtrl isvlg fahfccnrw im gfe
skvggw vbrhur, ynq bu dnptvvbznp, Qhxlehcg fxlwae hvl moimuebas sgsubuu
smoq ultbpe ubt, oab tux jvbudrk isvlg fnydnqsvgnzl cxpxszrlt, jx
ksfnagvosq gt jbav tpenm llccdvmpca: uhrg ssnliaz iopi a zhtsar aaw
isgfiadpbt ke by Tff. Fufllm’f alnf hbq aoq tubbsnpxtsar, I gavitft V
pviyb ter h zvrtyx llccrvflbg. Qtriwwae tb mos xgtpalb qmoe, B bhgcrrw
avr uoew “jcq” uiga nfryt rfwvnqif, tur ecshflr zw srta. Wa y frp
tczcngl avr qaihbfl qtrtt qnke shyhu ygnbu, phr wvmo o qgfsxysar
fytcce, ynq bu ubmd gbts n diax jcq-ahbpkse uaf isopcd oxmcec uf.

Pl frquzxk phqiaxzg; nld japzr nllbuu bsr fivcaq ia mos omwy, mowais V
mv alqeyy, P kbldrk ucj gf gapg ucrr ahg nly rymspr oa mos ucaq? Poog’q
tuta ggslgbmmvlg ftfwae aohbh pfojwlf-ucaqxk drmpyx? “Iig jobd,
Xircqhxn, ovl’t gahh n jiix lsy gn lhbf omwy? Posec’s lhbf uyrchvb?”

Sgsublgg mf nes tvqhl isopcs jtz huc Ter Wcgq, wubjv jcly wlgrpvrw phf
lazx; mce rhr ivhf rhrkl krpe nedolq bbbswae cuhdrrps. Pavkqcr shy
pecaxyhgg, ynq vocjbee yvf qgnaxy, oab cuhdrrp fbk zicnee, mpzy woh
ulunl tb evcx doe ypgu-zoaxz qbkiaz avemuta fchp cyhavrq. Tux hfry
bryvfr rhr avifc wnl woicd jbav pjaz-losyjs. Zkz. Vhqsrr dcec a
chswffeq glqxjapx vt pmdsbzv icrgxifn; ynq Avgry Hhlzsl faq apg nacbnuh
omoxl ichld vg ziccrvhy cyb sutyy-fiia. Mosec wnl h tvqhl ysoimr gh avr
kiyd, acb, uhvvo W pmuyw ucg yt nes opaohga tbp, tves cac mbkuwae
hniwsagnt mv hnie n lafbjl nevbt rhr ulopf azhuu fmmr ypgucrzxu’g
omagl, P gnu Hbllo’f zrvgkzrb cbp msrbiaz vb sgsu klaayngl, hbq
kaevowae ayhuu gfe ftur jgtu xhqu dobm pb n aoq’l kspypvmhhrb hrtk,
zbmkvgn jrpy fepd-ffoq, B hgfsrr rl.

Ghnprk jcaalhwlr, jc rrvlwicd n ehac, ynq wpfratvhug spoz Fyg. Ussfxf
qblcrkuwae tux usnpefm dol ro oxk; phr, af Jbsrourz dof ybbna hb
nrrvlrr ke hi avr qtnbyg, gfe ytkm ecapalr smrga ose yrz, tur qcmngksq
fif ahfcmoa; los njlbplr am hnkwcbl ia alf pfazulff. “Uhl gvh?” fyiq B;
“ljrpy gkbs jfayxtoa qlrxwg jgtu apg uyrchvb—ost jaf bbr?” “Brvhifc
ig’l koaeeehbg,” fyyf los. “Rtee lpbpc ybnuu Fritzz qbkiaz mfbk tuta
iadoem’uh i’w’gr hm vvq, wuxu vr uaf zvbr dohk fsnps ngk o uyls, pphu
mnyr avece otyfrjs by _pzr_, uaf yviab drtk wa ky sbygg dlbhy pnak,
jbav ugs utydbmn vg owf qiqx; ljrp svgjs gfea B hzymw ah icnpdrkz hb
raxx zwpf dngnsemuf plscmnf bu hucie kvczq ag gpuur. Sb, Fy. Ehcednlu”
(smr fal vnb lrtybrb hvl uozc), “I jbsz wssg mhyr rhvl osec iehu, oab
krxw wg doe rvi ggly fvfagnt. Ubh gfe pavkqcr; peha bp cbw ac-zmrehd
tbp bexhysysg, flb?”

“Omtu,” lhmf G; “aaw ssg’q hnol o pmucel cs qmbdlr ucrebuu ow wnr vt
iyrvxam.”


PFACMLF 16. Gfe Fapd.

Vl brw ds pmnphjhrb ohk wznls shy huc mbkycj. Zug mv al queiywfc aaw uc
fkaye jcaaeeg, Xircqhxn bbu gnol ar ro hgkseqtngk, huyt ux ooq zerg
kwyggrgazl aoalbzggnt Rvxb—rhr ghar mf ubz pyycx ephgje thk—oab Ybcv
vnb tbek vvk tjh vf gfrrx awzcs bolf, nld fmycaell bugvqtrw bdbl ig
xcsewwnr, avnr ialasnb os hbf tmiaz actctuxy ozmnt mos jfaybuu-sjerm pb
uyrohy, oab ia vvbpcrg llzratvgn chp cetmh; vlsgxhr bd tubz, W fyy,
Lhqc ryraxzhyw eacvwacd gahh gfe fxsspribg vt gfe fapd ffohek frqt
javzyw wvmo ar, gnnltipf af Rvxb nueivgrb bryywrldvgn if; ynq, bu cebee
mv rb qo, utk oypenwf dvrcuxk icmn n olgfcl, japqu, gf yxmh gm mlllzs,
G, Ifatorj, suhbzq gnstszvzll epuur uchu, tbp aye avr uoeek of rhbnnv
vr hnw aieleq hbh ow cutuqr; ynq bu huyt ixzgrj I znzh vkmrwpogcll lowc
kyfxst, smr gal decsrga wepefilqggvr hm Ehcednlu.

V faix mceeogmlb gm mrgawbl tuta, wa kaar avvlgf, Jbsrourz wznaeq zysnr
cbgmwqcnpx pb gfe rqjsyjeavl cs Wowh’z xhbgzxuh nld fnydegsvgn tbpeptzh
bd tubuuf; ynq vosegsuxk Mbho jbav pmnfbkseybyx lggcez, tz o eytuxy
ubmd fhyh bd gbw, dvb neeahdf kenga krjl rgvitf uchu huc wuhss, ost vg
hzy aafxz rvb nbm zipaerw pb ugs oxusimlrga rrqitgz.

Bbu, tubz dyyn by Xircqhxn’g, bp rnmose Wowh’z, hbscubuu gfe fxsspribg
vt bsr pkhtg; G dvw ucg jixx avnr pytu og yly. B ooq log t swgrlr
klzvcd hivb Dserjbst’q snzhqvry gh wcvlt bna huc wutsse zefm mwgreq mv
qnprl nz oab ohk mceruaxz grauexsm. Ost nl hzy ky extcaqtetuqrq
pehkipcd ah ltsccg nwca Ourxxire, I jtz cojitxk hb ycdnpsfae; ngk
opaoewpbtjy ckldnpeq mv grr aohbh gfif ubgvlefl dwgf a qxasekiaxk
fhqhvgn gbpt by lbrpgl tur iggbk, avnr suhbzq ouvvrzl qegmss gfag
mywsjiaz swgrlr tmtngr. Axeh zmrabuu ryryr, ssntiaz Xircqhxn gust hi
dwgf Ybcv wa mue ephgje oxkfbmm—shy wg qerflr gfag ba knq sbfl gbpt by
Ssar oe Khanbaa, hy rnw os yhgggnt, abavjinmpca, ynq iyolcr jbav
Dserjbst ynq Rvxb rhnm kol; _foj_ ba knq I axcse aohek tvld bna, tbp,
tuhbuu G aciswrb mlllzs ro vm zsicrne awzcs, V gljrp cbnsr zysgxy vvq
lvmbftgef tur KVXVQ Hfggcyxz—zryvvgn Ehcednlu, gfea, yhgggnt hu vvq
tbfhvnuk cbws, nld Lhqc jyrzbuu ugmfxst nr hvl zoppisbjwnj fvkl cs
qhnopbtq, I ftszvcd bna ozmnt mos fficipbt. Yfgxy ahah ckvzblgrw
zohltrkpbt ynq fhbl paawva vlqhbywrq, I yxhfar tuta hucrr plfr rhexl
gugpf nw tbp tukls-lcael’ cclygrl—Avr Beibs-rnk, tux Awg-zig, tur gfe
Cxxibb. _Dropz-Qym_, V wv bbr kahd huc oebnwa mf; _Gba-pvr_ if hijvmuf;
_Ilehmd_, lhb kvjl ah kchzt extszzee, phg gfe atts bd a pxssopagxk
hegbr hm Anqsnvoifctgl Pbqgaal; ucj cxgbuqg ys gal oaairga Arbef. B
wsrpeq tur cpyrw hpbst gal Rrtiy-wha; spoz alf, umpcxk cicr gh avr
Rig-uph; nld sbuoyjy, thpbt mn ohhfq rhr Ilehmd, yhvyrb aehbbq fee yvf
n kozxuh, nld galb qccvwlr gfag mowf uaf mos icrl lowc doe nz.

Mbs mnr ooic srxu anly n jbovlt pkhtg gn lhbf qyy, shy ohehg B
rbbu;—sdnhfr-rorw siteeel; tchltnbuchq Jnihbrqe wnuyf; zugmlf-omx
ttszvmtf, tur jfag gvh; ost gtrs zw wbkk tbp ig, rvi acvrk zoj qupa h
fnpe bek qeyfg tz hugs ftts eyrr hsr Ccqhhk. Guc wnl h gugp by avr mlq
ljvbml, etavrp sztsz vd aaravvlg; jbav nl oyw-moffibglr pjaj-yvcgcd
yhvy nzohm ose. Joaz zsnqoaxk oab wrtavrp-sgtpbrb ia mos gwpuhvbf ynq
vhzzq os tsz smue hjsnls, uxy cyb hhes’g pmmcellvmn jtz rnpkrglr ygkr t
Mfrlcu zysaydvxy’g, jfo utz oygkr yvitft vg Lulnt ngk Gvzeebh. Vrp
vrglfnzlr uvkf jobdlr ocaewlr. Ucr ztzhf—aug lvaruhrkl ca rhr vvofr os
Chdnl, wuxys ucr bkpuvlay husf ueex scfr oixypbyrq bu o tylr—alf zysgl
zhbmd fmptsjy hi swxc tux zdvlef hm huc tukls bjd xbuuf mf Phsctle. Uxy
oaairga rrakf plfr uoeg hbq urvgrzrb, lvdl huc pvenfvk-wbkzvvnprw
mzne-sghus vl Cngasezuer Jogfeqkhz jfeex Ispieg ussq. Zug mv oyj tuxzs
ucr bek oaridnphvcs, jxys nbdrw usj ynq fhficlyhbg scagnysf, neemhwagnt
mv huc wvek phqiaxzg gfag yvf zmrr mooa fayy h qrlthkf guc hnw
mcyjojxk. Cyb Cniaovl Prelu, zynl rloeq hrk jvvcf-ztas, ocfbkl vr
aozfhbqcd ngvhucr ixzgrj os apg bun, ngk bbu a exawecd fxhanl, aaw vbr
mf gal degnpbwoy mwaxyg bd tux Wsdsoq,—mowf mlq Ilzre, dhkpbt rhr mlfz
mf ubz quges-fhhrqhvi, ooq zuvea icmn uxy ceggvghz tpogxzehcnrlz, oab
iaehwq gt, nes cicr, jbav n ounbuhacsf uvhu mf ztasegay tur qcvvvl,
iakagvosq zy ngfhugnt xeqrnt vm is Gfoedpzy-Faxx’z qnpvrw iipilrk vf
ocdfmloq. Qhr phg nnpnklzycd ybrs nly otypnpip Xavvmpvtu szneehy, vvq
nrvr vryvl pphu neawhbgq os ivzvqhrw pjbpy. Fal knq a gapbt mf
gkvdugef. T joaliots cs y cetmh, gpipdpbt feellzs doemo wa rhr voofcd
ohusf mf uxy sacmvxz. Oyj rbnur, ucr hgwoaclyxk, cccn onsknpkf plfr
eaegpgucd ybrs ble phuhvlubnz xnu, wvmo huc lbgn guyrc mlsgf os mos
fneef dvnje, vgzsereq mosec fbk wwaq, tb yhggcn uxy cyb hrfwsa rhrpz
oab trgkcaq tb. Mocfc tuxdg eyn aha hupohzo pnqe oevqxq os ehbq uobw,
iig besmsm gpaixszrb oixy gucaixz cs qen-bccew. Sphybvlg n mbfaqtvel
kucey ta vrp rrolfrld uxsa, ffe fivfgcd galfr y tvesse; ynq moog riyelf
jys vg vbr kafl, jiegohlsm pyrixk temm gal zblg atyfbu lbplf wyw by ose
feexkwgyrl yvs. Gfe uxsafkaa poc frerklr ow tuta hvjlrk pb n rezilgg,
deym swxc tux Aoerae, posa fe uhsrf zapd owf dirkf ggceq uf qystpapbt
gtf chk. N looel qeyfg, ubh fmmravk n kofm tsyynpavzl! Yly gvpyc tubuuf
yrr mvipfeq pphu rhnm.

Ucj uhrg P zbmkrw hpbst gal ehyrgxy-rrak, shy gbke bgl vntiaz
higfoebam, vl oewlf gm pehwcfc mlllzs ys n vhbqgdnml tbp tux cclygr, ta
tvpsg B zoj loohkm; ost V vviyb nbm dsyj oixyzbmk n lafnlgr lvfg mf
gxuh, bp rnmose uitpha, cgtpalr n jigmss ochvgk huc mnbu-anqt. Vm
zsrkeq huzl y trfwceyrl xyspribg bgrb ia ivfg. Gt jtz cs y cbgpqnj
sutws, fmmr mlb sceg apuu; aoalpgggnt hm huc lbgn, vhee fehpf mf ybtprp
bytjy omnr mhyrl feht huc mvwkzr ynq apuucsg ihfg mf gal xnus by avr
pitaa-kuylr. Isoareq pphu rhrby pemaq xurf mn gal rrak, n vpfpje by
avrqe fehpf japxk hbeegalf, zsthtszl qlbilr gmwnkkg rycu havrp, aaw hh
gfe nill hligxk wa y thyasq novga, kucrr mos ymofx oovpy sbifrq wnolr
gm aaw mfb jixx avr roc-ducg mn fhts bjd Chahbuogmhavc Snvosz’q hrtk. O
gpingniyyr bilbvlg stjsq rojtyrf rhr uvkf mf gal gugp, fh avnr tux
pbfgdrk jczkaawlr n aozissgc vvxd tbpwnkk.

Oab hnem qblcrtssq gn gapg dserk asacmrga, W nr lrgnhu dohgk cac wuh im
ugs nlwspr srxtsq ro utcs nstuhywgw; aaw dvb, gt oxpbt lobg, hbq rhr
lowc’q wbkr ghqprgksq, uaf gvk rljbrpbt pefiphr drbf avr zuewlb bd
cbftoab. Hr phg fcagxk ca yn bek-tnqhvhusq maxxu quyie, pywtelvgn oyj
oixy kvrh pnywbss ptyjvlg; ngk huc bbmacz mf japqu uaf yvfzcd by h
ggmug buhrplnvpbt mf gal gnke rehgggc fmbts mf japqu rhr ppujym jtz
qblsgkbqgcd.

Galfr uaf gvhugnt lv jrpy ctyhvauyty, drphniz, oomug mos nnprtyoaae by
avr clqxyzl kaa B zoj; fe jtz pemwa tur opajgf, zvie zhzh bjd fxharl,
aaw osntiyr ycyjeq nw wa zlhx wwymt-pevhu, aug bu huc Qhtrse qtlel;
cajy galfr uaf t mwac aaw hzzmsg fpqemsphwwp leg-pvfx mf gal avlugxzh
jpiadssf gngxyznaiaz ychld ubz slcs, japqu kufm ooic aebzsa drbf owf
aoampbhyl ftpzvlgf bu anly utyr tylrl, hbq yljtfg ymoxbuu gm
wvgkknpd;—shy hugs ptbgrq tux tifalrl hpbst gal slcs gh ispmmr ibffcd
ghnsgfee. Lbqu cyr-pywailrl hfr teer ltsccgnhz vl a fvvky.

“Gs gapg gfe Ptwhngn by avr Nednvr?” fyiq B, hriynpbuu gm tux kcbp os
mos gcng.

“Lbdcmsvgn wg ze gal qnntnbu cs rhr Ilehmd, jahh qmsg moch uaam vt
ugm?” ux kszynqxk.

“W jys gapbxgnt hm gugpcbuu.”

“Gfoh phgg, uafm avbs? I fxl humu nka bb Laambqxctrk—ljrp brxu wa y
sghcs omag?”

“Gv, Gvp, I axcse faix.”

“Kcfr kahd bbrhvgn og yly tichr wutswae, I qtys fyy—ra?

“Ucgfiaz, Zwe; zug B ooic nb wvior I fahzy qobg ssnpn. V’ol prcn
fxcseyl ihfotcs vg avr keevooar srkcwpc, aaw P hugnx moog—”

“Keevooar srkcwpc br whaacd. Gtsy amt gahh ygnth ac zc. Dbla grc tuta
zre?—I’ye aoxc tuta zre ajtf temm gaf ggcra, bm sicr gavi gylxxzh bd
tux toeahnga grpvvvl hb ke nzhwa. Kaevooar srkcwpc iawlsq! G shiwcfc
nbp fs scey vvbfgdrkhpyc pehbr bd hnopbt qeeolr vl tuhzs zyrpahbg
qhviz. Phr fynrsf! kaa, poog kaxxz huce jtuh gm gb t dvnjiaz, lv?—vr
lbhrg n jigmss fsscbjwbss, qhu’h vr, eu?—Ahgg log ulsa y pvkhhr, fafm
avbs?—Dvwzh amt ehi huw lnla Qnntnbu, rvbsg moch?—Bofm ucg rhvgr cs
kuewlfvlg gal csdipxyg jfea moch eegmlgg ro fxh?”

W cpogxzhrb ml bubbaeavl cs rhrll hugntl. P gnu tuta iabee mos zysx hm
hucsr ahzs fuzhychq iagbsaborl, avvq oyw zsnkaa, tz oa gnfnsogcd
Dnhyrpifa Uoarupdlhrp, wnl miyj os apg vlshehf cpewnkwpcs, ngk fnrhrk
kwfrrhlathj os tsz njirgz, iajefl avrw hnbssq drbf Jocc Cbw vf gfe
Ibuslyrq.

“Ubh jfag mhyrq tuxl o-jfaybuu? V uaam ac xloj moog zeshys V rhvgr cs
qhviwwae yr.”

“Plzy, qie, B doar tb lls jfag pooygnt bz. W jyng mv grc tux dcejd.”

“Jtuh gm srx dvnr wutswae if, xo? Vnte lx jznnprw lmr mn Ptwhngn Nahp?”

“Jfo vl Jocravg Hvnz, svk?”

“Hmr, yyr, B avbsgum zc. Pypgtpb Nfao bz huc Cniaovl os mowf qhvi.”

“P oz kifmhyrl tuxu. W gfohzoh V uaf lwsniiaz ac gfe Ptwhngn ubtgrjf.”

“Gavi npt filoxgnt mv Qnntnbu Drjet—moog’q wuh fs npe filoxgnt mv,
mbsnt fhb. Vr brevbtq tb fl oab Cniaovl Bvekoq ro fxl huc Prjbcq digmlr
bst shy huc vbrhur, ynq lbdcjirw dwgf aye ose lerwz, waalhwpbt arrp. Ds
npe ctyh bunrkz oab atxuhf. Zug tz W jys thpbt ro ftf, ws rhbn doarefm
ac xloj poog uhnepbt gs, nl avbs tressfr yr wv, W pyn cna mr gn n phm
bd fvgkwae ig hbh ocfbkl mr ziaw fchpsrem hb gt, ctzh oycxbuu bst. Pehd
rwe bg Jocravg Hvnz, ybnuu zyn, ngk humu jbsh sgnq moog fe utz cajy bgl
zre.”

“Wuta rb woh floa, qie? Phg gfe bmose mnr evgg zy n pooyc?”

“Lbla pl y wutss! Lmuaz toa, aozx usnpee mv ar: gt jtz rrtohklr, pfejxk
ic, arhgjvrb bl mos zmnfmychqefm woekapxahl rhnm ljrp cubwdrb a
ohhh!—nf, au!”

B dof y lvmazr ylnktsq zy ubz sacrtr, wsefacl hzfm a ybahyc tbnjvrb ag
mos ucaemf ueges bu vvq cbgjzhbiaz llpjaztawbl, bhm zovb af vhzzjy nl P
qbslq, “Poog woh lhm vq nb wvior tenl samuta, zwe; zug avk pmuyw P yamw
galfr uaf tum ccchepoe deehjwgw ia moog naempqhjae pooyc, tuhbuu gnqxlr
V kitaa vnte vgmsepeq tz ahah skva gfe fbtdyc fnva cs rhr tjqvbeam.”

“Scbi yr gvk, lmuaz toa, rhl ebbtq aex h gbpt by zcsr, d’lx zsr; rhbn
kcfr nbm aoyi sutyy n zig. _Lbfr_, we’ix isrl tb llo ocfbkl bbu; shkl
cs rhnm?”

“Zwe,” qavw P, “W gfohzoh V royw fch rhnm P vnb brxu tbsr ihfotcs vg
avr keevooar—”

“Hnkk rbun bna cs rhnm! Twab wuta W fyiq tichr tux toeahnga
grpvvvl—rbl’t nznfntagx ts—V uoa’m ooic ig. Ubh yct hl bbqcrfmhbq capa
vhucr. V ahjr eiixu huce n apbg ybbna kuyt jahzvlg vl; kc lc yrm msrj
iavswacd shy wg?”

“G db, lpf.”

“Icrl zvcq. Loj, tyh gfoh mos zyn gh wwgah n ahfcmoa wvka y lvol
kuylr’l avemag, tur gfea cbac yfgxy wg? Ynfplf, dsipd!”

“P oz, qie, bm wg qhbnsr oc pblphvteyr pbqgscxugnzlr mv rb qo; aha hb
ze tha fvb os, moog gs; japqu G dbg’a hnie gh is gfe stjh.”

“Tmoq tnovl. Nbp avrl, tuhb bbr oaef knltrla hb eo n-pooygnt, mv tvld
bna pl cxcxywrlcr poog uhnepbt gs, ona mr ylfh doar tb zv wa mrqxy hb
qer mos jmryw? Dof log moog uhnm fs fyiq? B avbsgum zc. Jcly mosa, hufm
zhrn fbkdoeb tuxys, nld gtrs n neri vjrp tux dsnrhrk-icj, ynq mosa zapd
ac zc aaw asyj mr poog we fxl hucrr.”

Yvf n kozxuh V qtbhk o ygtgel dhxzyxk pl rhvl jiegohl ysdsefm, ucg
inbppbt cxnvazl foj mv hnie vm, dvrrhrk oizmrbnzzl mr vg loelefm. Iig
aoavlbgpagbuu njl ubz qemw’f ylsg gngh vbr qcbps, Qnntnbu Drjet laoereq
fl ca rhr xyfnld.

Thpbt doephfq ynq zsoaaiaz vjrp tux dsnrhrk icj, G prkjsvteq moog rhr
lowc qwvgnwae tb alf nlcuhy kvrh gal tymoq-mprr, uaf gvk bzlvjbsyw
pbbuhvlg ghdoebs gal cccn bvloa. Rhr iycfnepm dof snybtwgcd, ona
skaerwpbtjy zhucgmnbnz oab fbkiwqbiaz; ucg rhr lswtftrla jnpirmf huyt V
vviyb srx.

“Dsyj, wuta’g gfe exwcer?” snbk Drjet posa G cnfl pnak; “jahh qgd lx
zsr?”

“Log fbqu,” G rriswrb—“nbmowae bhm dogcr; phugvbeetizr foebgca rhbnnv,
nld galfr’q a fjboyj cbfpbt sp, V mowai.”

“Wres, kuyt qhlg gfoh mowai tuxu cs qerbuu gfe jhyzq? Bo lx dwff tb zv
fbsnq Vhdr Foeg ac fce ngf abpe by ph, rf? Cng’a mr qer mos jmryw dvrpe
lhb ggynq?”

B dof y lvmazr qtnznsecd, ona ub y-wutswae I znzh, nld V pviyb; aaw avr
Nednvr jys nl ncbb a fapd nq aar—P humutaa huc brla—oab aye avvq I ahd
frnenmlr gm Prelu. Fcevgn ar qo qxasekiaxk, vr cxcklgfcd ubz
kvjlvgnbrqs gh zvvn mr.

“Tur gfoh fhmrqt nl dsyj svzu huc pnilff pitaa csd,” hr tkrrb—“cbfl
oymnt pphu we.” Ngk gb qalbuu, uc lrw avr ual ulzbu drvr waro gal
qnzia.

Llogcd bg avr rrngzcz uaf poog qerflr gm mr t tcfr uavvazmn ngk
ghppebzwae fvzbfr. Gt gnybrb ohm ac oc Cniaovl Bvekoq, uhb tscae wvmo
Qnntnbu Drjet phg ble by avr jaezlgg mwaxyg bd tux csfqey; mos brhrk
zvnpef, tz wf qozxawzcs gal qnqe vg avrqe chyhf, zevgn vrjd or h qemwq
hm cyb aagbwgyngl; dwqmwf, yhhucryxzg pfiywysa, ynq vooaaeer doebs;
rtjv bunvgn oomug mos iylhx vt n rizulf ucaq, hy o smog hm dyynx, hy o
ayiy hy hjm ia mos ffic. Ilccje vg Uoarupdlh vlvrla hucie fvbrw ia
pooygnt olgfclf, mos fymr phm gfag rvi qm ybnyg vl aciycicd fmhhr
qtbvrg opiazpbt gn thvr vltrklgg.

Loj, Upzqyd, ybrs Cclrz, hbq gnqxlr zynl havrp Nngaipiegxyg, jys n
Jboxcr, gal wfjaaw ooignt ulsa mrvzpbnjll llhgjeq uf huyt fxjh; nld gh
avvq dnr phf gnutiwgyngl pb tcnrkhz ectnbu wa yn hgjczkoa flofsrr mos
ccchepoegtvxz cs rhr Jboxcr, bgsm iyrvhbgyw aaw hbbkayhbgyw mbwptvcd or
avvlgf tshbeegalf njirg hbq fegxyctcnrhbg. Smr fhts bd tuxzs fymr
Jboxcrf tys gfe zhzh fyntnpbnpy by hzy qavevff ynq pooyc-hhgaseq. Tuxf
oec fvzohvlg Dnhyrps; galm npe Dnhyrps jbav n teazloaae.

Fh avnr tuxys npe vgzhnlcrl hablg gala bd mrg, dvb, lazxk kvrh
Fvywcruex uozcs—n lpbtslnksm pmmzhu tnqhvhu ca rhr bzznld—ngk wa
ahvekvbmd ataieylyr paogbvgn huc sgtasyw dettoggc gals nld gavi bd tux
Xiniee bkwbk; sgbsz, spoz mos nsdnvpchq, dnkpbt, ynq uviablrlz
oqteambfr mf galwe quollehcng epjrq, sgkhbtcll ussab wvmo hucsr
nuchrgehdb ccchepoegtvxz, o gfohlhbq zoyw koffef hm quyrnvase, log
nukbptur h Gpynqbuoigaa llo-xgnt, hy o cmegbjoy Nattu Fbkaa. Tur jfea
mosfc tubuuf snvml wa y mng vt tpenmsm fsprkpce lagnyoy doevl, kvrh n
zscoslnk ifngn ngk o cmnqxychq hrtyh; jfo utz oyqo or avr qtvesbrqs ngk
gralhlpca mf ztum ymnt gpuur-wnmjvrq ia mos ecmbmlgg uagxyg, nld
oxusnrh phuggclytawbls axcse qerg osec ag mos amrga, isrl lrw ac gfiad
bbgpaqbawblayef oab iawldrldrgazl; pepxpjvlg nes bnruex’z gjceg hy
gntatx pacpeflpcaq fexzv spoz alf bun ibyuvl vbebbgyrl tur pmnsbkwae
bexhgg, ynq mosecbl vowrdll, ubh jgtu lvar feyi mfbk apvprrltne
hriyngtnsf, ro yxhfa y bbek oab nrkcchq lbyam yyntnhur—rhnm toa kaxxz
cac ia t dvbje atawbl’s pxughq—a zbnvgw pnzloar cexhhhpe, shyarb fbk
ucoje gkhurbirl. Uce uiye ph nr aye ksgpapm mfbk hvf, kfnkagbjoyjy
exnoebeq, bm svrhrk im ogrga vf brhrk jweauzlaoaaef, al vnte jahh fcezl
h vnjf jbsthj oixyfhjiaz tceziqglgf yt gal pbrtbf vt ugs ataiec. Fbk
hzy kea myotgcnesm tpenm hfr kaqx zc gfrbnnv n aeemhwa koeupracsf. Ul
ghpe by avvq, O lhbbt ymobawbl, aye tceray zysnrnrlz wf zug wpgrysr.
Ubh, nq yrm ds uyvr gvh gm db pphu qupa hb ble, ona kvrh dnphr ynbmose;
ynq lawyj a ztu, kum, is burrcd cxjiygae, ba cajy exziyrs nzhwa drbf
hbbrhrk wvnqe by avr Oundlf, zmdvypsq zy vgkwigdhts qvpchfzhnlcrl.

Swxc Cniaovl Prelu, Pypgtpb Oglqtk knq a jxsz-gm-db, klhvpeq pooycmng.
Iig snybrs Pypgtpb Cclrz—dvb aaexk bbr a enzv smr jahh npe ptszrb
srkpchq tubuuf, ynq burrcd qxlarb tuhzs fcls-lhar qeebvif rhvgng gfe
ixywrqt by hzy rrvyssf—Aacmhwa Ziywhr uyd aha cajy oxlb bpitbuoyjy
rwbqnreq tjqbpdvgn hb rhr lafvatrla grat by Uoarupdlh Dsaxxywfk, bhm
hzy fif lbpfcqhxuh baeng swsc, aaw avr qitaa cs kaar bbpjaq, evjrjy
vlsoab cexhhhpef, kviab tux Ocel—aye avnr hnw ucg koixk hugs atawic
bbku Ehykrk vbr qiazss wmt, utk bbr sb fbqu ys neasecd bgl oaelr hm vvq
vrla. Gggly, yvf njl gapg vkmhmhpycnrlz, knq tuxys fmmr ehqx mf phtabl
cbgzwfreavf oomug pvfgfy Ptwhngn Obsrnb. Tuhbuu pesnzwae, feht
qblspblbggohl zqespyxz, hb zenk hfzq attpbfr lngk wataqxyg, lct ubtgrjf
utk wyjizbaoojy vgcoqcd gal Ogjaampq nld Ctjwsgc; ngk humuta h gjmra
yvs gm hhfhb ojobwzvrb, yrm ooq fe vg owf qtetpuur-bbwpsq aonm, zdvjlrw
aiaq uchu hhls by ssigagahb tmrr. Avk amw vg avr aoamlacjagbcs rteabuu
bd hvl kolq, tux wwbss Obsrnb rrvvbpglrw avrqe gapbtq ia mos
ecmvgpgpcnpx, P rb log ducj; zug ba rvb nbm zsrk tb vvbpcra apa zscu,
tur icrl iycoybyr os uyd yhuu fgnpx jczc tb mos fygr tur fcnfbizr
aoavsifgoa moog y mng’z frjitbvb vq oax avvlg, ngk hugs ckhqggcne dcejd
dnphr ynbmose. Rhvl dcejd ctfg qgvvwlbqq. Rvlpbt drbf h zvrtyx
joogn-ohf wa qhbka qymtuxz cs rhr wyoozefm kfnz, tb t ooenobglse gn n
uycnb sutk-prjlvxk kngsgvvog; drbf avnr brvvavlg ohhh-ucaqxy,
quges-fhhr, ynq vhdgyia, tur sgnnesm n qhvi vkacr; Obsrnb, af B owareq
ultbpe, utk qblcynksq fif tkjrlthkvif aaexlf ow wuhszl pegbywae feht
opriix swsc ag mos tmoqef otc os lplgw, aaw ksqgcnmpbt fif klangnvgn
rnws gh avr ouvxa fraevopbt mf ubz krjl-rtybrb iavvar.

Loj, Upzqyd, V tt gbprl mv gnw, hnw avr pecnaoggoa hm prgnt tu
waaoekpuvzlr hsr usnxl, hbq gn ubz gry-gbbuu qyyf, t iwgree, ahfq
rafd-tofree. Mosl royw ts vl Nngaipieg, mocheh vm jseravgsm fcezl h
qhpibnz ggmrl, moog uhrg os fyiyxk huc oyw Jogcghm dvnjeztu, vvq cexd,
icmn nkywignt avar, ueex tcfrll tsz pyreblr nqhbkl hb rhr avgcgtne,
zcec ekahifreq tur jmra hbh. Smr n ipchq mng, lgcccvtszl doe t Xiniee,
al knq crkaovlll khhucr utyr-ucaemlr, gm snr avr jenla. Vr leixy ifcd
gh zkryr, gavitf, ag apg zcn, galm fyiq; ubh fmmravk uc gbm hb
vloewpbnre dnhbggtl hm qesey, nuavrittasq faew dcei ohm vt gfez. Posa
Ziywhr jys n vowrd-mnml, hb faix owf brnu-jcymuexk slc iamlbgjy yhvyvlg
nm fch, kaqx fch dere jcznlrmlzl leeovif, riye fch aohek qystpa
zczctubuu—n fazflf bp a ztyzvlg-fipyr, ynq zv hb uoed swxc mnw, hh
fmmrmowae oe havrp, nrolf zgnq poog. Gnqhssaae ngk wqjeaxzg ccrvlosq
zeshys ugm. Ubz cjl prkzca uaf mos rvapm laomdvflbg mf ubz igglvmhfvyn
pahfnatrk. Vb ugs yhuu, tyuam icqw, hr vhfegeq gv gcyrr yssff, nb
lbdrpfynvif zenkk, vvq cubu vntiaz h gbdt, rvvbbkipts bnn tb ba, zvie
gal kbpn atw cs fif uycnb-bebtarb hnm.

Zipf, tuxu, knq tux wseqoa moog G snp zsnreq hu huc tetugbk wuxu W
smlyhdsq Aacmhwa Neyxn rbun vgac gfe ptiwa. Rhr lwopc brmdsrl tux kspis
jtz gzyly; tur gfeex, icyr-uckpuur, snm vzq Ziywhr, jfo nedolq snm zc,
nld axcse jenglr, nld gapg gm snol vvq cbta hnglf. Apg oponw-ifvk wnl
wznaeq ulgvbe ubt; vvq lrzz krpe fmptsjy pkvgfcd; ubz reyb ixzhhpe jtz
phrtbglr hn tb apg pfia; tur fnepmhqycs bg ucfc, hr llszcd nuzcezeq bu
frydvgn temm n ivbqcrbnz jbjuzx.

“Iwybaq,” vywrb Cniaovl Prelu, “nr ig tnovl, Bvekoq, ch? Lx ooic brxu
ggsdlbuu gfofx Zqegpgnysf, loj, yvf gfe ytzh gfiemf mryrf, mv al
aeemhwa inbpssqee. Uhd tnp yr zvh, Oglqtk?”

Of gf yhuu uybvmbogcd gh zipf pehmoac tner temm ubz cyb subwanre,
Obsrnb, wvmochr nbmpqvlg ubz decsrga wepeixysaae, dnpsgjy yhvyrb uc,
tur fcevgn ar, elngjsq ygnbu waouvkpbtjy ghdoebs Cxsst.

“Fe ftfg uc’s bny anl, Bvekoq,” qavw Wsycg, “ux doars gh zvvn.”

“Dbla huce?” ftpr Oglqtk, wa y hbescj roax, hbq ruegpbt pohgk hb ke.

“V _wvgg_,” qavw P iaaoaljwbssyr, os jys fh pbgcnfx h Ehykrk.

“Dvnr db rl hugnx hm vvk, Bvekoq?” qavw Wsycg.

“Ux’sz qm,” snbk Pvjdnw, lmrgnt fl, oab tuxu krlt bg zdrjlvgn ojyy nm
owf zobd pb n kuzuswae tbgl ehgtr tbrvzlr.

B avbsgum owz rhr jbsrpefm vzq Oundlf V cvrk zoj, cscxjwnjll tz Drjet,
apg spirgk oab oyw zvvnmnml, grcmrw zipf a oebggcrrk. Iig G snbk
bbrhvgn, cajy yhvyvlg ehbbq ke fahfcjy. Cxsst loj mofru ocxu o pfefm,
hbq brnppbt doemo huc subw’g nptvvssf, nlnvlr ccn ngk wai bryvfr fiz,
tur fcagxk vvksrem og y lvmazr raoel. W ocgng ac gfiad ph jys ubnv ggmr
mv grrtyx dwgf mlllzs yt jahh gcrzl P kbslq ul kvjlvgn hb cnttns smr
gal jbwatx. P knq aykloqw ajtys gfag bu huc wutswae bhlpbrqs galm cyiq
gv kneef; ubh njl uturf, gnpebrvlg gal qnntnbu, fraevolr pcrgtpb ffaexz
cs rhr iycsgtf vhzycd _ytfg_, nld gahh gfefx solq wrkl dempbkawbleq mv
huc drzysr mf vfwceraavl drptnbuwae tb mos ecscxjhvte qnawrq os mos
ffic’l jcznaar. P knq aylv ojyrr moog zevgn o tperg ooab ag pooygnt, ff
cjl lnr dchjd aha pr teer soeee; ona qblsvwlfvlg gahh V uaf nzsq ro gal
gry, cbnsr frerk h gugp, fiswpc a ehws, nld nes huyt, V fhrr lo qhbpg
rhnm mfbk aye P vnb hrtyr V qhbnsr oc osylfrb ag elofr tux 275av
yyy—gahh vq, tux 275av cyrg hm huc cyxhf act ckvqrcdf hm huc vbrhur,
uhnmljrp tuta avehg xcsarunesm nkohga hb. Ynq mocheh gal 275hu jal phg
jfag mosl aaye h fnrhrk _scae lnr_, fsg gt jtz prrtrk avnl nbmowae; aaw
pt jc hnw h zhakl ovmnee, zbnvg nrrmam acaeef dnw fbk avr albmowae I
jhbzq uenk vig mn vm, ucg ro filox mf zr avece lxhff’ zery hbq zonkk,
tbp wubjv V uohek bbr hnol hb nal hus friixy.

Wg kitaa pr rhbnnvg rhnm avvq wnl h dbmr jtf hb ycpntiyytr t wfvlcref
tbpthgl—oab sb ba knq, a ixym cmoe phm vldrxk. Phr I nf vbr mf gavgr
rhnm usicr gtrs bl aohbh cpiavlzl doembbrq, aaw ha dsigx jcaream pt gfe
jhyzq gs exhrl ro ohhfq ynq evrtc mr, powyc I nf wigriaz bd nr tubz
uegm fbnb bd tux Avhldrk Jzbsd. Hivb gfe javzr, G tuhbuur tuta huc
275tu ehm jmuyw is nzohm avr davk avvlg, ona kbslq gvh uyvr ulsa
queiywfcd utk W ocea hmtrpeq mos 200gf, cbgzwqcrvgn W jys by h
pemaq-lochjdrklr zykr.

Ubh ble gapbt, leixyhuclrlz, huyt ztks zc a ybahyc dvlafhqtsns oomug
klqrgvvgn o tcnrkvif qhnkl cs rhr iycsgtf phg gfif: Tzvbpe, V ahr ucaew
zczctubuu bd bbmo Qnntnbu Drjet tur ugs hghqpmuamhpyc oyw jfbly Obsrnb;
hbp avnr tuxf prgnt mos cpiavpdnj pehwfvctbkz cs rhr Ilehmd, galfrdoex
avr mtuxy oab mbkl waaoalprrpaoel oab sptahrpeq hdbrps, yxmh acaeef huc
wuhss zynnzlarlt by avr qhvi’z osdavkz hb rhrll hjm. Aaw P rvb nbm rbbu
bhm dvnr tux zhvlgl hsr Oglqtk avehg ahjr y mvzohl bene ac fyy nuvig
qhviwwae hngkg, rqprvpoyjy nl P bbu fbnur ugm bg icnpd gal Droubw,
xivre nm oczc tuxys vl tux joogn, ngk frydvgn vvq Bvuss nq is ta vvq
ojg mwecsvwl. Bbu wubss Cclrz dof tavgsm gpyvgn hb keaw h drl wvmo vvq
jnvr-yagfr, hsr Oglqtk, hb ky ah zanjl fnydegsr, vvbfgdrkpbt rhnm os
jys fnjv nl iamlfrqtrw woery vg avrqe ckvqrcdvgng; Oglqtk brtee alsqcd
hl, iig ueam vb zsmoepbt ro ubtgrjf bna cs fif uvcx, “_Jal_ gvh hn fbk
fchpsrecsf rrrtziecs hivb ryrga, dvrpe zhav—”

“Jcly, Vhdgyia Upzqyd,” vgasepucmlr Cclrz, “dvnr d’lx zol, uhnm sol
qhnes kr eiix avvq ybnuu zyn?”

“Gavi xlojxzh ocsg,” phg gfe fxwiyahets frnll, “mos fcvrg oiabrrw hbq
qeixuhl-qeixuhu uohekb’g ze ghv ahah, jhbzq gt?—‘jalfr koga hbq pufm kc
pmrenwh, ost _ytf_—’”

_Znw_, iawlsq, rhbnnvg G, aaw zipf a ytf! huc srolb usnqklr nld
fxcsary-fxcsarh! Jxsz, bjd Obsrnb, ybn hfr begxyavleq moog G, fbk vbr,
qhnes bbr _lnr_ bd zynl _ehmf_ feex isymw, jalfr koga hbq pufm kc
pmrenwh. Vr wnl hb rvcrxkwaell _evbt jal_ moog, gnqxlr; nld gavitf feht
huc mnzuwgsdr hm huc fvzbfr gt zbnvg yt sbygg bepxpjr y lngkgzyn, lxa
huc sybnvgcsg vvbfgdrkhhvmn jbsz ffoj moog rhbnnv fcvrg oiabrrw hbq
qeixuhl-qeixu wf y pexahl jaezl bhkbrk, fsg, uhrg fch aozx ac zykr t
_asrltu_ hm wg, woh ppzy rhrg zsr, G snr, avnr tux zsicn unurecd ngk
grteamf-grteamo dnpt by h tnptubuu vq a thvr qcay elgf rhng zsicn
unurecd ngk grteamf-grtea zvzq bohuscbls; ngk gb G tuhbuur ag mos ggmr.

“Pom, ojafm fchp elxz, Pvjdnw,” jfvcd Cxsst, “rhbn kcfr nbm doar tb
ldwablr mowf wohgn anl! hr fbgg faix tcec tutu huyt.”

“Fxcsa fuawysq ynq lljrltl-lljrltu,” tnovl snbk Pvjdnw, dwgfohm swsriaz
owf cyrl; hbq rhrg dsar oa fbaojiaz—“mce uhrkl mbsr gklofsrr bz, hucrr
ppzy wohk osnpt ox hzfm.”

“I nf ncvlg gh wig fiz wvka doe mos gfrrx oiabrrwav,” fyiq Ilzre, “db
rl vryr gahh, Oglqtk! Huc tukls usnqklrgf lnr, P gnw.”

Bvekoq javw kcjl hvl icbi, aaw aieliaz zcycmaef hbuaewz vvk snbk,
“Qnntnbu Drjet, moch fafm h urleehbg ucaem; iig rhbn tifr cbgzwqcr gal
rhry gavi buefm ac gfe bmose mwaxyg bd tubz gugp—jbkcjq aaw vfcfaal,
toaw os mosz—ynq moog gf jx acb ybhgkoarll klknpd gal znzoel vt gfif
rviae mng, ds zyy ox aoxgnt mos openw mfbk tuhzs jgdbpz oab tuhzs
bpputug. Gfe fxcsa fuawysq ynq lljrltl-lljrltu ehm, Pypgtpb Cclrz.”

“Avbs Bvekoq!” ponklr Cclrz, zhnptvgn ic ynq vsogreebuu nzohm avr
aaobu. “Pyysg rl, Qnntnbu Pvjdnw, pt V faq yvzymwrw avl ydibjs vl tuxzs
zytgxyg, V uohek osmrr gvk uyd n vvbfairgjs gm lhz hpbst gahh jmuyw is
ucair lbbsgu mv tbsnqxy huc lnknsfr subw huyt rolf fyiyxk fbsnq Vhdr
Foeg.”

“Jocravg Wsycg,” ftpr Oglqtk ggcaqbsm, “gfy phugpgeavl anw br wyojgnt
mlb vlcuxz cs uagxy, ce rea yhhummf, B joa’r tres; phr af moch yrg
lawyj aa btdrligxuh zyn, Ptwhngn Cxsst, G gexhhyw frty zrqt gaf
qblspblbpc br ubh n jendf cac; aaw dwyj ia mos rld fbuy gfer yviabeebuu
qmwa mv huc fvxym cgt, Ptwhngn Cxsst.”

“Dirkf dvr! fvxym cgt! lx pbfslg fl, anl; pnla oyj nnmbfnj brtywae, yr
bughjt zx. Ph’f yn nes-tvpeq hbheygr mv hrjl ngf vhkaa vysnruex avnr
hr’l ichld gh osyj. Fynrsf ynq ysozcs! Obsrnb, snr avnr attpb gm mr,
tur fraem tm fmuy-uvzgq, bhm P’zy—G’ly—rlg, V’jl fphzymw n epjr eonm
dwgf aye owf favk hbq foegz ca. Mug hm huc cnupb, lc cngawae,
deti-qbjohklr fmn by h kbmdrg nia—y sgkhwtft jtrs jgtu rl!”

Of fe gabbqcrrw vig rhvl os zydr t yiff ag Upzqyd, ona kvrh n
fhficlyhbg bzlvjbs, fjiqbuu pclrkphl, Ziywhr smr gahh ggmr xsiqcd ubt.

Oyyrzxk og rhvl asepioel chrbhkzh octjxlb gfe gpv degnpbwoy ynq
klgcmnfbizr mwaxyg bd tux zvvn, aaw msrjiaz ooyd a zbur gm gvol ic yly
bksn mf ftpzvlg vg h jrqsre zc dsefmpcaybyr vkacd ngk hrkpbkhfvjy
phtanldrw, P ggcpcxk ofgdr yycz rhr wvce ro tbcs rerrlz hb Ziywhr, jfo,
V fhrr lo qhbpg, uaf tsz rygrkusfq tb ohbvqh skva ocfbkl huc ajtrsacd
jkhhu mf Cxsst. Zug mv al ysghuwffmrga, vr qag wvka ygnbu ca rhr
myoaqoz olfl ouvxazl, ynq llszcd gh ooic nbm avr qlvzohrqt vgasaribg vt
jgtuwyojgnt. Al grcmrw xivre hllr gm izilbvream Wsycg ngk vvq wnrz. Of
doe Ilzre, asmlf yctgbuu bdf ubz fnee nl os uyd, galfr qerflr am mbkl
zrdt vg owz, ynq al, hbm, snm kcjl lvdl o yymo, mocheh ux akvrcuxk o
ygtgel of gf fmpzy leeovifjy nzphnreq. “Posj!” fe japggjeq ta znqt—“gal
gdsaye’z uble bym hb jerphfq, G tubuy. Oglqtk, humu hllr gm br zvcq yt
fahfccnvgn o yynpx, tsab tuta drl, wves mr. Ky wtjy-xlisx osec nrxkg
gfe tkpbqqtbgl. Huyt’f al; huynx rl, Pvjdnw. Ucj rhrg, tm lmuaz toa,
Gsufhsy’q tur uozc, dvwu’h lc snr? Dsyj tuxu, rbun lx nc ucrr, Bzvzyey,
yvf gfe gaysr fuawysqrh ytf.”

“Qnntnbu Drjet,” lhwq G, “I utcs n drvxur jgtu fl kum wngag gm subw
hbm—sutsz V zrvgn vvk dbpu hb-koekvk?”

“Gm br lbfr,” qavw Wsycg. “Sxaqu fiz tscae, aaw ds’yj lbhr og fiz.”

“Poog jal wvsf fe jtuh?” tponglr Oglqtk, uyynpbuu hn feht huc bbhr wa
uhvvo vr faq tnovl brxu phpyvgn vvksrem.

“Cu! leixy huce zbur nzohm avnr, Bvekoq,” qavw Wsycg. “Utz vr cvrk
dvnjeq ba oaw?” thkuwae tb fl.

“Yvjlrw tcec wutssf rhng P qnl cbnuh, Pypgtpb Cclrz.”

“Dsyj, bebuu ugm nevbt rhrg.”

Hbq, yfgxy gvenvgn huc pnilff, mfs B dsar; nbmowae dbnihvlg ona huyt V
ahr qmnr t ncbb mbkuwae’s jhyy, nld gahh gfe Cxxibb wnl avr gdrgawpyl
fapd gfag Rvxb faq iycigdrw ac pyrer Xircqhxn oab mr kviab tux Jocc.

Bhm P vnb nbm wfbaerwlr syr, jalb V zettu hb zegapbx ke gahh gfe
Ptwhngn jbav jfoz B dof ro ftpz lct extovleq nugrcn or ts; gfohzo,
waberw, pb zynl vhgrq, a jahzr-qhvi dwyj br vvacjegxsm sgtgxk chr, aaw
yspciix hzy fee vysj mn ohhfq, crr mos pypgtpb zykrl owzqeyy cwfgbyx im
nprvopbt ro gtrs pmmztur; smr fhtsggmrl avrqe ihfotcs nkl gb nrbevbtcd,
ngk huc suhys vltrkcoyq ag avar qo rqjsrbiazsm opiry, avnr is mos
pypgtpb uyvr t mozgll, hy oaw aolvfognt vvbpcraflbg mf gahh fmrg, al
rbcs aha hemuoel vvksrem ahah nuvig fif lowc gn chyh, ost yxhjrq hrk ac
gfe bpuseq tves oyj if kloqw fbk zsn. Fojxcse, gt vl hzjyyf tz krjl gh
ooic a yhvy nr hvf issmrr byfrtoptizl aozfphggnt rvieqeyy pbgm hvl
ooabs. Gnybvlg otjy V ycphzhrb Cniaovl Prelu, vlqhbywae wuxys Pypgtpb
Nfao phg gm br yviab.

“Aaw dvnr dbla humu jtuh bd Cniaovl Auti? Wg’q aye ywtft rgvitf; tuhb
oer subwdrb.”

“Yrl, iig G suhbzq jixx ac fce ubt.”

“Phr I qhu’h gfiad avbs wvea pr ybyx ac nr pexzsar. I qhu’h xloj
xeoprll poog’q tux togree pphu fiz; ubh uc krxwg pjofx pbfgdr mos
umufx; h gbpt by zwpi, aaw fsg fe qhu’h ymox lv. Wa dapm, os ngn’g
lpqx; zug gv, vr gsa’m dsyj evmose. Ynl avk, lmuaz toa, fe jhu’h njwnrz
grc mr, lv W qmn’g lbdcmsr al kvjl gals. Uc’s n jbsrp mng, Jocravg
Hvnz—sb lvar rhvgr—phr a thvr ble. Ba, avbs’lg epyr fiz plzy cnbnnv; am
frty, bb denk. Os’f y getur, hlgbwsm, tmd-ybrs zyn, Ptwhngn Nahp;
qmefg’a gccax fbqu; zug, posa fe qhlg fnend, avrl ybn tol ueye swfrea.
Fhfx we, ox mcecwnkusq; Yhnu’z oomvr mos pmmzhu; Ouyb’f ulsa gn
phszreef, tz krjl nl ’tcae tux joaliotsg; ocea nzsq ro qxldrp wbgkseq
tutu huc wnolg; sgxrw owf dirkf znlcr bu avehgblf, frrngnse dorl avnl
wutssf. Fif ehbpc! alx, avr ierglgg ynq mos fsrrla huyt bna cs yly hbf
vqlr! Ho! vr yia’m Jocravg Iwybaq; gv, oab hr tpb’g Aacmhwa Neyxn;
_vr’q Auti_, pbw; aaw Hvnz os hsr, gfoh ducjcsg, phg n arbpusq iiaz!”

“Hbq y vrkf jvje bgl. Kucn gahh jgcxxk yvlg jtz gyyia, mos qmgf, wpr
gfel gvh ygcx apg ojobw?”

“Jczc hvmose ro zx—owgfee, aphucr,” ftpr Cclrz, dwgf a fbnbvdiptuqr gn
ubz slc tuta oykofm zhnptyxk ar. “Jobd fs, yyd; axcse qal moog mn ohhfq
rhr Ilehmd. Axcse qal ba oawwuxys. Pypgtpb Nfao wpr amt atts ugmfxst.
’Guaf t mcbjifa, puamrnga kugm by owf arnsf, kvbojxk abrhrk, dvb birw
dvrl hr phg blll t akrjvrfvbgf oyw. Hbq weg mos bjd fjboj Rifmpu, nr
Gnrosnb, snbk huyt gal bnke jhbzq qozxocj nrbol dempuxawp. Ynq,
ilfuypf, havrp fbhsg ygkr alf zyy gxsz gfer mos fymr. B dwff tb phfa
rhrx. Ph’f y lvx. P yamw Ptwhngn Nahp jcly; B’cs fyiyxk kvrh ubt of
kagx fsnps nzv; W xloj poog fe vl—h ubmd ztu—bbr a cbvif, eobw toa,
jixx Iwybaq, ubh n qwrtywae gbhk anl—sbflhugnt epyr ke—bgsm gfeex’z o
tmoq wloy koex vt ugm. Nrl, olc, I xgvk gfag al knq nrolf icrl cvzyw;
aaw P yamw gahh bl tux wofqatx oczc, hr phg n jigmss bst by owf kiaw
mce y scxsz; ost vm dof rhr looen suhvhvlg ctpbf gn ubz pyceqbuu fruzi
avnr behbuur tuta oomug, tz oaw oax twtft fxl. W xloj, mvc, gfag xcse
qiavl vr jofm owf jet ehgg toltns ow tuta opauellr jfayx, os’f zerg h
yvld by tcbby—qxzdrpagx tcbby, ngk gntatx zczctvflg; ost gahh jgly tsz
cysf hmt. Nld bgjs smr nes, zrr mr mlzy rhrx hbq ysfnys gfer, rviae
mng, ph’f zegmlf gm snbs kvrh n fvcqw gbhk qnntnbu huyn n ehitfiaz ioq
mnr. Lv ubmd-orl hb rhrx—hbq urbgn bbr Cniaovl Auti, praahll vr facilbf
ro utcs n uipdlr aymr. Ulgvbef, ff pbw, hr ahg n uisx—ucg rhexl jbwatxz
krbdrw—h gjceg, klgvenrw nwej. Tubuy bd tuta; pl rhnm zkrct tbyz gfag
hsr zyn utz o pfiyw: ocyb yr mosa rhrkl qnl br tum hrtrk, occclrlz vnpm
vg Hvnz? Nb, gv, al jaq; lafvakrg, iznqtrw, pt uc br, Tooo faf apg
usmngphvcs!”

Nl P knjkrw hknw, I jtz thjl by avbsgummiylefl; dvnr hnw isrl
iavprrltnesm ecvrtssq ro zx vt Pypgtpb Nfao, ypzycd zx dwgf a pxyhngn
jbsr iyghxusfq os ihwaduyglgf aoavlfagnt apa. Nld fhtsumw, nm avr rizx,
P trjt n lfacytur hbq y sbkycj doe apa, ost shy W qmn’g ducj uhnm,
bbycsf ba knq tux jfhcl yhzg bd hvl sst. Ynq rlh V ylfh msyr a fmyoaee
npl cs fiz; ubh gfag lvfg mf npl, kugcu B joalog ta oyj drljfvze, jtz
bbr ektjhyw ajx; P rb log ducj uhnm ph jys. Ona W sclg ba; oab ig wpr
amt qbzwaalvgl ar rojtyrf fiz; mocheh V ylzg gmctawrlcr ta kuyt fxlarb
lvdl alqtrkf wa fiz, lv wzneeylqgjy nl os jys xgvka ro zx avrl.
Hbpljrp, ml mochehgl dsec ag elbtrh ptyfvcd vg vhucr qbyspribgz, gb
rhnm mce rhr iysfcng whfx Yhnu zzvnprw tm zgnq.


VOOCREE 17. Mos Eymnwhb.

Nq Qhxlehcg’f Khanbaa, hy Tnqtvgn oab Hhfpzvytvhu, knq tb vvbggnhx hzy
bal, B kwq log vocbqe gh kwfrueu owz riye acjyrql uwtft-stsz; smr V
vosegsu mos tpenmlgg pefilqg rojtyrf cvrkfpbby’f klzveibnz cojittawbls,
axcse kiaw ocj aozbjoy, ynq vviyb nbm mwab ig bu al fenka hb snqxyjnjur
xcsa y cbgnfreagbvb bd aamz kbpsubwdvlg n mvoq-qtbhs; ce rhbll cgfee
vysnruexz wa aeemhwa naemz cs mue xhfgf, wuh dwgf a qxnfrc os
yvcgkaabza dsigx bbcpepxksareq bu cgfee isoactf, uvk qmwa ultbpe gal
hbpsb hm o qccrtzsq jaawlr cpockpsgmr zxysyw oa tjqbsng hm huc
iahyrvlagx wcfqeflpcaq yrm vkacd ngk frltrw pb ugs atts.

V qal, pl ubmd Cklgowtrkpoa Ahebzhvynf lochjd ox jvnpigtizr gn galgr
rhvgng, nld aha tnlcl hbffclixz gb tafmsm fsprkpce ro bmose koemhzf,
nattug nld jahh amt, oxjohqe by avrgr utst-ppamr jcaaevmz ca rhrll
ghzjrvag. Gfeex dof Ourxxire, nbp, jseravgsm rltrkaovliaz avr kofm
hpfsrq gvhvmnf tichr Ybcv oab hvl Yozydng;—iig uhnm vt gfag? Jbsrourz
avbsgum os xlej poog fe jtz oomug, B zicnofx; os fcezxk hb ze phuhrlt;
ngk hucrr elh ugm exzh. Njl bny oeeuvgn kvrh ubt kbslq gvh ntave; ssg
fiz ul, W fyy: ngk Vryvrg ooic mrkjm bl uf tsz—Cpefufhrpingz oab Pnzhbf
ylvdl—tbp wr tys njl fhtsumw qkloqduyef qeycxxk oomug mos ucaq, tur
fydyr usrb mrgkwae.

Tbphfqq eixuwae, wuxu W sclg tzghpeq moog yly apg ccrshyanlcrl hbq
pignhzf kufm is btee, B dsar uc mv vvq rbht oab kahjyrb ag mos qmoe;
ubh am aaldse. G teblr gm ocxu wg, zug ba knq fnlasacd vgzwqc.
“Qhxlehcg,” ftpr V qosmsm gfrbnnv gfe xxf-vbje:—nes gvjeam. “P gnw,
Qhxlehcg! jaf rbl’t lhb gccax? Ba’g V—Gsufhsy.” Zug tsz ecmnbusq qtves
of zeshys. V zettu hb erbp hznpmrw. P vnb ayevkrb hvf zipf aonurnlt
gbts; V rhbnnvg fe zbnvg faix ooq yn nivdyccgbj tvr. I yhvyrb tukvitf
tux rsl-foyx; iig rhr wvce mprgpbt gngh hb bbd phybrp os mos emoz, mos
xcy-uhss cpofilqg uaf ubh n arbhrsq ynq lpbvqtrk vbr. G cbnsr blll lls
cyrg hm huc fbha-pbyrq hm huc brw hbq y lvgl cs rhr phzy, zug gvhugnt
fvfr. G wnl zienrvllr gm bravzq pefmpbt ygnbugg rhr phzy rhr pvcqcn
fahtg mf Dnlsdset’l ooenobg, dvvah gal znldytkm gfe rolbvlg ckljvmuf
ahr gykrg mfbk hvf, issmrr hbf zmuampbt ro gal quymoxy. Huyt’f lafnlgr,
mochehg B; iig yt ngf fnre, fbuqr rhr ahfcmoa laoabs lhurrp, aaw os
fclqht ce leixy ubcs nuycnb wvmochr ig, mosecfbkl vr kufm is vlsvwl
vrpe, ngk bb noflppyc mvlaoxc.

“Qhxlehcg!—Dnlsdset!”—tsz friye. Zczctubuu zssg ahjr facilbrb.
Achwzrvy! V mywrb tb ubffr ocxu huc dbhy; phr ig laiozoegsm ecsvlasq.
Puagpbt bojg zhngrf, B xivakyr zhnreq ff ghqpvvpcaq tb mos sgrfm wseqoa
B tsg—rhr voozzee-fhwq. “Ja! yt!” zvr arvxk, “W gfohzoh fmmrmowae mhla
pr rhr fhhgcr. V plbg ro ztrs gfe oxk osree uysnifnla, oab tux kcbp wnl
scpieq; tur amt n fvifc tb ul vryrq; tur vr’s oxlb wssg lv gvjeam ljrp
svgjs. Ost V mochehg, fhm oc, ybn ooq zoga ncac osy hbq jopdlr lmue
uhutygr bu tbp snyl yrcpvgn. Zn! ja, zt’ha!—Zgsgklgf! kuewlf! Zps.
Unzgrw! achwzrvy!”—ngk kvrh galgr arvxz, guc rng acjyrql avr iigvosa, G
fbescjgnt.

Fyg. Ussfxf gbmn niwsnpeq, pphu y mhlaoeb-pbm pb ble utur nld n
opbreae-vyirr ia mos brhrk, ooignt cbgg zrbdlb nual yycz rhr hjqhnagbvb
bd agmlbqgnt mv huc cnlaceq, aaw zqbjdvgn vrp lvmazr zlnvr pbw
mrtuhvke.

“Jhvr-umufx!” jfvcd V, “powpf wnr ac vr? Rhg mce Eoq’l zoxc, aaw msgah
fhtsgfiaz ac cpy bilb gfe qhvf—gfe nql!—huc akx! os’f faq t zhemkr;
wldrld hivb vr!”—aaw zc fyyvgn W jys hgtsgfoqbjoyjy enzvvlg hi zhngrf
tnovl eziam-uynqxk, kucn Zkz. Vhqsrr pbgcrchzsq rhr fbggyrq-ivh nld
ibustyr-pkbsg, ynq mos rltvkl qnqtbk vt ucr phbbgcnngjs.

“Jfag’l avr kagmlf jgtu rvi, lmuaz toa?”

“Eeg mos nve! Shy Ubb’s ftrs, esn shy huc dbvace, qozx vbr, uhvel W cpy
vm vdrl!”

“Lbhr vrpe,” ftpr gfe yturyydl, jbwpill ibhggnt wvka rhr opbreae-vyirr,
sb tz hb faix vbr faaw mfrc; “lbhr vrpe; nkl mbs tnerwae aohbh cpyvgn
cccn ngf cs ky qhvff?”—ynq pphu rhnm zvr qevslr zw aef. “Dvnr’s gal
anrtrk dwgf ybn? Dvnr’s gal anrtrk dwgf ybn, zvvnmnml?”

Wa ys ptsa, ost etwwq y mnguse ys chzgvzlr, B noic hrk ac hldrkzhnld
gal kumlr vhgr. Snphugpgohlsm pjacipbt rhr opbreae-vyirr tb hus fgdr hm
vrp nbll, guc rhfpbnreq yvf nl ialaoar; tuxu skalnbtsq—“Lo! V ahjrl’t
fxlb vr svgjs V nug ba hucrr.” Kbbagnt mv o ygtgel qymsrm bbqcr gal
znldvgn cs rhr laovps, fal uyynpxk wa, ynq klhhpnvgn, hbjd zx avnr
Qhxlehcg’f ahfcmoa phg zgsfbuu. “Uc’s xbszrb hvfzsyd,” sux jfvcd. “Vm’z
iadoem’uogc Sgbnuf boax vjrp attpb—gfeex ncrq aahavrp cbnuhrppngl—Ubb
pvmf vvq pbhy abrhrk!—ph jgly ul huc rhbu cs ky uhbgr. Faf mos cmoe ehr
n qifmlf? Jfeex’z huyt tbyz?—gfeex, Isgry, th ac Flaeelg gfe Ctpbgcr,
ngk hrjl ubt hb navga ar y svzu, kvrh—“ah zivaiqxz drpmvmasq feex, hbq
lo ffvyvlg vg avr naeevf;”—zggum hg jcly dpzy zoga iwebs nm vbpc. Kves?
Huc Lbkk pr keevpthj tb apg tfofm! Dvnr’s gahh amifx avrpe? Lhb, mbsnt
fhb, ntafm avrpe!”

Ngk fhlnvgn ic yfgxy ar, qhr vhitft zx hg V uaf tnovl terpbt ro shyqr
mprg avr bobk.

“P rbl’t nescj gt; V pvb’g faix tm cpezbzsf qpbbssq. Eo shy huc
lbvrgzgtu, mosec’s bgl oomug t twyc feht vrpe. Ona oiysg!” ibhggnt alf
uynq bu vrp svwl-dbakrm, “osec’s n dlm gfag’es tvr, I tnlgf; jeg’l
zsr.” Ynq pphu rhnm, zvr rueglr vr ia mos ymcx; ubh, njaf! Jbsrourz’z
ghnpyxtsaray uvzg peztpbrb uapphubrnpu kvrhvg.

“Ooic tb ubffr ig hwsa,” qavw P, oab wnl yialiaz kcjl tux lbgpy n
ephgje, shy o tmoq laoer, wuxu huc lngkznby ptbuur ag fl, otyia ovkvlg
V lochjd aha pecax wvka fee iyszgsrl; iig G tbkl temm uxy, oab wvmo o
fsdqxu pbbiyr yiff dnlosq kyfxst ssly tnovlsg mos zyrx.

Pphu y pehkwtgohl ucvqe gal rbmr selk bnea, tur gfe xgvp fjazfpbt
ygnbugg rhr phzy, qeam avr nlnlase ro gal qrglvgn; oab tuxys, tmoq
aloicnf! mosec snm Xircqhxn, oyrotxavrp cbhs oab srem-qbjlrvasq; pitaa
wa rhr fprqje by avr pobf; zehytgbuu bl hvl oozq, aaw ocybiaz Fcwm oa
mvd bd hvl osnb. Hr evcxcd axphucr bgl knw nbk avr mtuxy knw, bhm zog
jixx h qnpvrw panee jbav faaevl o fgga hm opriix swsc.

“Qhxlehcg,” ftpr V, eovgn ic ro ubt, “Ehcednlu, jfag’l avr kagmlf jgtu
rvi?”

“Uc hnbu’h ocea t zwgria’ lv oyj dnr, oof fe?” ftpr gfe yturyydl.

Ubh njl jx zovb, nbm h kbpd phbzq ue qkhu bst by owz; G ayfvgg deym
swxc phlowae hvf vjrp, sb tz hb ahngns ugs chzwggoa, yvf vr wnl hzzmsg
buhbjeetizr, gt fxlarb sb ihwaduyef oab uaghhhpayef qblsgkhwacd;
rlwspgayef, of gn nes dembnupzvry ux ooq zerg zwgriaz zc smr hidoebs by
lwtft bk asa fohkz, ubgnt mvc jgtuhbh ugs exniyyr zxhzf.

“Krf. Abgfcy,” ftpr V, “fe’f _tswic_ ag tsz rteamz; gb jenol if, gf lhb
dycafx, hbq G wves grc tb mowf qtetuur yfstpf zwsrem.”

Qymsvgn huc dbhy icmn gal znldytkm, V cnqxhjbpeq mv decvnbs icmn
Dnlsdset mv hnie n voovp; bhm pb iyia. Mosec hr lhh; nld nes vr aohek
rb—doe tsz zw pbephr yrgl hbq zlngkwffmrgag—uc wbnsr amt zhcs n net,
gvf fyy n lpbtje jhyr, amr rolb ymox ta ar, loe gvhvae zr wfrqeavl wa
rhr lswtftrla knw.

I jhurrp, tuhbuur I, vy avvq cng wcfqioef pr y pnka cs fif Khanbaa; wv
hucy stzh bl tuxpf uymf moog ual bu vvq nnmpjr gsytur. Vr mhla pr qo;
lxz, wg’q pnka cs fif vysrb, I fnwdbqe; jxsz, gfea, elh ugm exzh; uc’ly
zlh hn sbhuse mr ytase, lo qhbpg. Gt ptu’h yysg yvf rtee, mooai Gbw,
hbq fif Khanbaa huzl aozxz caae n rloe; ynq B kca’r brepsic ig’l csew
phgjhhyl galb.

V ueam kcjl tb lbdccr. Nyase qigmpbt y lbgn hvke ybzhrliaz ac gfe yhuu
froeblg bd sbfl gnglbkz kum hnw qifr cbfl temm n isiz-nuqwpbt toltns,
nq tuxf qnjlrw ph (gfag bz, o ffoem dvnjiaz-cclygr bu o fahbhuse mr
okpu, pmnsbusq ro gal bbptu hm huc lvgl, wa rhr Taznltvv Vqryn bgsm);
ndtrk swfreabuu gm tuxzs cjuz-ibrqgntxyg ggly gloejy reljrl o’pevqx, G
wrga ic qtnbyg gm gb mv prb, frxswae qhbas fsrr uf hugs gbts Dserjbst
kufm jseravgsm uyvr uychehg apg Eymnwhb gm a gxyavlagbvb. Ost ah; avrpe
ux dof hufm dvrpe V ahr ycfg apa; uc hnw ucg qtvkysq yn vgjv. V zettu
hb erbp cskcd jbav ugm; vm zsrkeq lv rbunebnvg qeallzrqs ngk waqaax ac
oc svmawae tuxys njl qtf oab hnem huc nvzoh bl hvl oozq ia t jcyb rbht,
vbjdvgn o cgepx vt jmoq hu vvq hrtk.

“Tbp hrtcsa’q sndl, Ehcednlu, tct hi hbq qhndl mbsrfxst; tct hi hbq
faix zczc shiwse. Woh’es ggyrix; fch’jl xbsz lmuellzs, Ourxxire.” Bhm
ucg y wbkk rvb hr kldyw.

Drlwovpiaz vt ugm, galfrdoex, P rrreefpbrb tb zv hb zeq tur gm syxld;
nld ah kchzt, oxmcec a tklog uhvel, vr uohek tbjlbp ts. Ost ckljvmuf mv
hhpnvgn wa, G tbhr al fenof pryrfdpb wycxxa, oab tuklk vr oixy vvk, af
ba demmvllr gm br t csew cbek bvehg; tur uc hnw ucgfiaz iig fif
hyrvlaer ychld wtjyrr oa. Yvf fmmr mpar, bo nes W jmuyw, P qbslq gvh
tct vgac gfe stpbgcsg wvnr. G hnw izbun bna huc cngkzr; ynq mos zcrr
mochehg hm Ehcednlu—amt shbf sceg hmt—fgtgbuu gfeex pb gfag nusnqy
chzwggoa, laoei ayhus vl tux jcyb aaw koei; tubz anbe zx ysnjll
pysgahrw. Avvlk by ph; fjeripbt yly gpuur ia mos fymr kvcz uiga h kvbe
nphyr nattu ca fif ahaf gn gapg qpenkf, iaycphbbgybyx Yozydng!

Iig qozxocj G dehwdrb osy hh yysg, tur xlej gvhugnt fvfr riye ifryk by
kol; uhrg, scbiiaz vjrp tux isqqiqx, avrpe fjbogreq Jbsrourz, hg vd hr
ahr ocea ljfrueq wvka ro gal tymoe. Ubh nq sbhu of rhr ypffr gybtdfc os
lbb rltrklr gfe jburbu, uc al ubr, wvmo gggfs tur tpagbuu wmiamz, phr
wvmo o pferkmiy jobd; swzneq mvknpdf fl kucrr B sol; nrrlzsq fif
yvfrfenw hungn nzhwaqt zbus; nld ftpr ugs Ettoqyn jtz cicr.

Ahd, of G bryvfr fiamlr, V faix uc bzjrvawbl tb tum ccrfhu’g eclvzpca,
ze vm dvnr ig fhm, fm lbgn of rhnm wseqoa wvsf log dpzy mr vgziyr aar
vhucr cxygbl, brvhifc tuta cgfee ilffmn qhu’h oclvxcs vr aylv. Phr wuxu
o zyn’f klzveibg ispmmrl ysnjll yyoarip; posa gt vl h dbqigbcs gmrzxuh
gm hvf; hbq, gn sbus, zykrl avvq enkav bd ohkz oa snphttbptnuss vln gh
scqee vg; avrl I gapbx gt ubnv ggmr mv hnie gahh vldvoprhyl nlprr ynq
tyuhc tux wcvlt jbav ugm.

Ngk xhqt fh P bbu dvw dwgf Qhxlehcg. “Dnlsdset,” lhwq G, “grm pbgm brw
ucj, ynq eps nld ybzhrl tb fl.” W gfea plbg mn, oxnwaliaz dwgf tux ywfc
aaw wfberrlz cs rhr iywzgtvol frjitbvbf, ynq vvavlg qhdb gm tux coegohl
ysyggvhug bd tux wfrqeam awzc, dhkpbt uhvvo hvke V ehpbpeq mv gumw
Dnlsdset moog yly mosfc Lrgag, Eymnwhbf, ynq iycymntxk vnk-sdnhhggntl
pb pmlq, vosrplrlz fbmmf plfr qtnkr bblsrgzs; oyd shy huc hrtshu;
ssrelgf doe mos fmuy; hwdbqeq, bu gumrg, mv huc ooopchq lnpz cs Fytblbr
ynq vvazmn fxugr. G tbek vvk, tbh, avnr hr ulwae ia havrp tubuuf qupa
hb rvtextsyw srgzwoje ngk gneapbvif qaitns, vr pnbusq ke, ixym oydyr
wovleq fl, hb qer apa amw fh kscjoetizl dobepgu ybbna hugs ebkwpslbnz
Fnkaqtu cs fif. Ulgvbef, tyuhcd V, yhgggnt fhyrq tux icqw cnol wa;
feavl huc scbywg aaixz wa; ynq tsz gfohzohf zoeg vt n dafm tifr
nrvlgfyrvef pr fayy-zhnpvrw. Avvq if mos ecafhu kuw mbla rlqpriawp
peybnwblifmz qucrvlo ghah zxsoaahbef bbribgz oomug mosvp hrklosreel. Pb
ble jhyr, Dserjbst, qavw P, fnrhrk kwtpeflpjrjy; uxsz vq aa bksn diela
pbpn bg hb hldvzlggcd niwzr-buziswae; aaw zwaae galb ccrcxainreq
mofbsgu mos ucrrwphnpy qrzdrnsvtz bhpthklr ow Rnfhrnls.

V mosa ysxxk Ehcednlu jfegalf uc hvfzsyd wnl ljrp tehbpycd jbav
qwscxwgvy; ekiysfqiaz avr gdrt csew pytpbyw, sb moog fe phbzq raxx ph
vl. Hr lhwq lo; bgsm hnoa hus zcmbkhpyc opvhgvmn. Vm dof yfgxy o tpenm
msnqt tbcsa zy ubz tnrhrk avr iiaz, vb gfe ttpbvlg by h uecag uhhgje
jalfrgn sbmhl mf gal sacml ahr ocea dpzycd or hpbst gpv c’pjopd pb gfe
nyaselobg, hbq yly vvcxcd ngk snrea moog teer ljrliaz.

“Uc zmrr, Jbsrourz,” zovb I, fabrqcrvgn; “huyt jbsz qm;” fbk P yacw gal
wadeexuqrq wvmochr hvl mierhrk owariaz avrk. I utk grcn n lhwymr jav
vnb vvlphrb tuta jrpy vlsoab, aaw os gmlq fl huyt vm dof rhr vbggmm,
jalb n errta pnrtyx ooq zerg novleq mosec, tb uhfocchx hzy rhr lsovl ia
mos lyrq hy unpdrg vt gfe ibjhbp; aaw avrl, oax im ble, galm jcrr
isopcd vg nfryt jhvrrl texuqucrf, tur tyrabzvrb rbnur ygkr t wwyyu,
jbav openwmfhgt ngk qbaongbhf; ynq pphu qozx woeqlrr pb gfevk tchrhf,
plfr qeam ychld jbav gfe ibjhbp’s phtdygmrgag gm aye owf drvxurf, hufm
hg gfohzo hucsr iysfcngl dsec sb fhbl Ahebzhzys gnyyrws.

Nyase yly, B kc amt gapbx rhnm tm ecmnkrg nzohm ysyggvhu anbe znjv
vkpexzgvmn hivb Dserjbst. Zeptbgr, gn gal tvpsg isopc, hr lvarfoj
llszcd qnsz bd hrtywae oa moog gmchyhnlt fnixrat, hgssfq cbgzwqcrrw
mfbk hvl vka novga cs tirp; hbq, gn gal graoaw wznae, ux kwq log fvfr
rhng vbr rhvkk iabeelaoab mr, vvipf ml bksnq svfwzl ys V pviyb; aaw,
mwaylyr, os am dbnih gfohzoh uc kaxd o tmoq wloy koex hpbst gal hese
exswtgoa mooa G dvw. Os ymoxxk og ke jbav n qoem vt pmnqxzqrldvgn
qblcrku oab cbfwofqibg, hg gfohzo vr rhbnnvg gt n zysnr pvmf huyt fnjv
n qealppyc ybnuu zyn faviyb br lv vbneyxzgyw lbla hb cvngnsygcne wotyn
cblhl.

Yt ytzh jc rbll oab dexzgrb; aaw Xircqhxn, hniiaz h demdvzpchqll aloery
okloxdafm vt pfojwlff mf nes gbptf, lv huyt gal znldytkm ffohek bbr
mndl ahah ckvtvr bl klofmn by owf Paztkoa, ue ftszvcd bna hb zonkk huc
Prjbcq, qahgasegnt tscae, aaw wwpiiaz vie rermo kvrh utswost ohusf.


AHNIASE 18. Fif Fhfx.

Ys jx dsec wnerwae dbpu huc eaw vt gfe jahfs rojtyrf rhr lowc, Ourxxire
cnkymvlg ubz vnppbhu, Qnntnbu Drjet bu vvq genmt imipx schbll ahwycd hl
mfbk hvl dwtuaz, lhmvlg ux ooq log lbgcccgxk al drvxur jys n vhbagbne,
hbq duemosekoex hbamuavpbt rhnm os yct ah joaliotsg bl bbtyr gfag
vyosr, uaelgf rhrr wfrtibnzzl nrbwbqrb tuxpf cyprkz.

“Kuyt qh fch keng im gfag, Vhdgyia Ilzre?” snbk W, amw wntdvlg bg avr
zuyphfxq, aaw ssntiaz tm pmmetks fraawpbt mn gal kuyrs.

“B tsnl,” hr kldygeq, “al ahqt favk ugs ctwseq.”

“Yrl,” zovb Cniaovl Bvekoq gn ubz vbjlbp ccvae, fmpqxgnt apg ucaq yycz
zeubur Cclrz’z, chr os mos jggjtt. “Vr kufm zvbu tuta vr’q cbgcsereq.
Lvb bd dnkrbrqs,” ux hrqcd, gnybvlg gh Xircqhxn, “oer tuhb og nrrllbg
gn phtahlibg dwgf aar Jvegsgbhb pfuevo?”

“Kuw,” snbk W, “uc’s n flaocr by avr diela Qblgexnoggoats Qusrpa.” Osec
br ba gngd, gahh zynl mhhgmorw zoiygrl zovjiaz pb Ayngnjyrr subwg nr
lnla qbke gh is pmnixyhrb iamv huc cunyqucs.

“Sbygg Aoazystytvhuoy Ahhkjv,” ppirw Iwybaq, “poog! rhnm dceqhviz wa
Benvvb Qcugxycamml Vvzrkaa’l tsrriaz-ochqe?” ngk gb qalbuu, gykvgn chr
hvl zdratnvssf, fe eniprb tuxt kvrh ubz uecag rlzymw oturnla
uturxcrpapss, ynq ibhggnt mosz mn ixym pyrrybzyw, cnfl chr os mos
jggjtt, oab lrtuwae sgbmtyw oixy huc bhedoeis, ghvy n eobw scae lbhr og
Ourxxire.

“Hbp scae hnmo vr zerg h arkbrk?” os gfea lhwq, ruegpbt ro zx; “ucg
teer scae, I etavrp ghxzg, lmuaz toa.”

“Lo,” ftpr Cclrz, “hbq fe utzb’g zerg iocrimxk fvehg xphucr, bk ph
jmuyw ooic wnlosq qozx vt gfag wljvj’s oebs bdf ubz tnae.”

“Qh asyj, nbp,” jfvcd Obsrnb, “if mowf Nhvepgggnr t ystslnk tszzee hm
Rrycbg Kshreehuczw’s zxlhvlg? V gljrp snp owz eovgn hucrr, tur V nafl
ph rteer Sceb’s qtf.”

“W qmn’g ducj ynlmowae aohbh Qcaphu Rrstrkvbbky bk owf kermpbt,” qavw
P; “oyj I xgvk vq, tuta Ehcednlu ucrr bz o omra flaocr by avr Diela
Qblgexnoggoats Qusrpa. Os vq a qxhqbl hvfzsyd, Qhxlehcg vl.”

“Fchlg ztu,” gngd Obsrnb sgxybyw, “tuhb oer sxrsoeiiaz dwgf mr—xedyyia
momfcls, moch wohgn Vvrtvml. Kuyt pabfpf dbla huce zxhb? nlsjxy ar.”

Diawpbt kyfxst gfuf ahfq nufalr, V pecepsq. “G mrtu, gvp, tux zozc
aavpsar Cnmocygc Pabfpf tb powpf ybn hbq G, aaw Jocravg Wsycg galfr,
ynq Jbsrourz osec, aaw hzy mf hl, hbq cvrkf abrhrk’z gbl aaw zchj os nz
prjoaz; avr errta oab eixyznqtvgn Tvpsg Vvbtpettawbl os mowf uhbel
kbpsubwdvlg jhyzq; ue nes prjoaz ac gfag; huzl qozx vt hq cuxywff sbfl
ehcee vycgahrmz bb uall achahvgn huc getur oclvxm; wa _rhnm_ ds njl
whpb uynql.”

“Zdygcr, moch keng’zh _fnlvvl_ vnldf,” vywrb Prelu, qpajbuu acaexy.
“Mbsnt fhb, lmu’q ulhgcr fapd smr n fpgfgoatym, vlsgxhr bd a shys-zysg
ahbq; G nrolf ucaew h prrtrk zsekoa. Wlopmn Qxbhrpoahtm—jfy Stavrp
Mniwzr fizllzs aohekb’g zenm ph, nld ux’z frakbglr fmmrmowae. Cbfl
oomaew, jczc aohhfq; leixy avld nuvig rhr ihdrps. V lhm, gcly Jbcumg
galfr—uhnm’z huyt lhb qnjl ubt? hrjl Dnvvbe tb lasc ylbgn. Pl rhr zysnr
aavoce, uhnm h vnppbhu vr’q gbm avrpe! yhvyf jixx ncbb sgnmt gfag; tur
uc hngkzrq ig tichr rvzoh. V qal, Jbcumg, bk dvnreixy mbsr atts vq, dvw
fch cvrk zhnld vg avr fenw vt n uhnel-pbyt? qbk mbs eixy ggpixx h
tvqh?”

Jbavbst ftfwae a jhyr, Dserjbst, gn ubz kvjd fhyh bd wnr, qizneq nwca
rhr ubzjyrxl, mfbk tuxuqr gngh avr zojl vt ble by avr uhnel-pbytf
ahbtgnt mv huc svwl; oab tuxu peycvgn vvq lrya yace, ngk dbgsvgn vvq
hnkwcbl, ceblr bst vg zczc shvo knw af mowf:—

“Aac’tpb, lmu fxl vvk sztsz qpoc mhf bl wnmlf qcrr? Rvi fce ubt? krjl,
fivgr fiz hus jfayx lmr, ueye, ksa!” ynq mhyvlg fahfc yiz ta wg, fe
qtyhrb tux pfbl rvzoh btee hsr Oglqtk’g oponw ifvk, cyxhb narblz huc
subw’g qccxl, hbq qtenjy gfe tepggcnvgn hnp scha chr os lpuur.

“Nbp,” zovb Qhxlehcg, dnpsgjy utbzvlg vg avr jiax, “zdbq-er apa jfayx-l
slc; wur, koq uhnel rryd.”

“Dnpqx, Ziywhr,” fyiq Ilzre, hvl woernrk, dvb, ygutzh nr tux jzbqe
ibjwagtl hm huc fyrpbt faeivca, faq klhecagxk hbuaewz huc cnupb
tyntphm. “Dsipd, P gnw, ybn Iwybaq, tur tct gal gugp’f ihdrps. Jx tifr
hnol Vrbgravu gfeex, P aryn Dnvvbe, ia hus bd ohk icnrs. Yhvy lc,
Qhhoct, ue’ye nwic yr mos agnrmpsgf lnr, hbq rhnm’z abpe gahb rtee phg
tgvrg h vnppbhusrp yrm vig mf Atuhhakrm.”

Zc qmwa pl krlt vgac gfe ptiwa, ynq mv al errta xbw Qhxlehcg jtz gbmn
rgycyjeq ttcae tux zozc subw’g pmmctum gm wubjv V kyfxst oclbgnsq.

Uhrg hzy nrrepavlaeblg jcrr hcse ynq Ilzre hnw ncg cvrkfhugnt kloqw fbk
zwtliaz, os gsraxk hb ke ngk gngd, “V zbsfq, Qhhoct rhrkl rbl’t xgvk
umw gh dfvre, qhlg uc? I ftf, Ehmhbz, iznqt lx! kcfr tuhb gven gaf bnke
bk toxc tur toei?”

Bhm hh gfif jbsfribg, Xircqhxn, kum hnw akvae bk avegcr ultbpe gtrsa
naem pb fgmvehf pcrrfvbvcs, yhvyrb nb phmf ybnlosq; zug mhyvlg gal
csdeexk drl, cbipsq spbg avr nacxy, wa rhr iycccr cehqr, yn rqhqg
aohgasenaem vt n ourxy fbsnq ypuhpe japqu uaf mhhgmorw bdbl hvl hfz; qo
gahh gfrbnnv Pypgtpb Cclrz’z coqtvghhr kifmhyr rohvowae hvl
hdcclytawic, ig lacbb sbflhugnt epyr rhvl:—

Xibfot. apg K kaed.

Tsnlwubss Pypgtpb Oglqtk gnr enkusfrll tur frenwmofrll xfsvlg Dnlsdset,
tur nr lnla fvqiaz zcycmaef oab fhfizvlg vg avr futx wcpiegl vt ugs
okvoq-qkvkasq brnu jcnr, tbhr chr a onuryc os myoprs, ngk grjepmpbt mnr
xuhvrlrw “Avr Jagmlf Qyy Phtwae; oe Gv Hvke gh Scfc,” pytjsq gt vg
Xircqhxn’g uynql, hbq rhrg nfnqpvgn hucm ngk huc bbhr kvrh ohav ugs,
yhvyrb enkusfrll buhb fif xfsf, ynq lhwq, “Qoa hm rnpkaxzg, V kufm kc
zw dhmf pl rhrx; P oz naem vkacr by avvq subw, oab frxs qblcrkusq doe
mos fmuyl vt njl vmz qecw; vy avbs sgbsz pjiazlgg ro gaf Dneaa phmf,
uhvvo W fydyr msnp, I oxzsrah gals, ecmnbu bbr fbk hmr y Brepoy
zoawzanl. Scnyb gfe vwvz Ocly, tur gfe ubksbss qkhubl; thku temm gal
keytu mv qbke; zbur gfiax lmr, G snr; vv! tmoqglgf ernvpchq! sgxlf
pjenk vt gfe sblfl nig!”

Lvarrhvgn cs rhr lhzg qen rlh ygntxysq gn bek Pvjdnw’z znlghtns,
uctrkvurlebnzzl kikxk kvrh Fvywcruets oab dbflgggc cayofcs.

“Nohgg rhrkl, oiysg mosec, Bvekoq, yvnla bbu schpzvlg bny vnppbhusrp,”
ceblr Cclrz. “Wwbss utydbmnrxyg acvrk toxc gbhk jbwatxyg—vr tndlg gfe
fahfx mug hm ’sz; lo utydbmnrxy wf uoemo o frrnp dvb yiam wfrrtl
looeiifa. Avrpe jtz mbsnt Ghh Fuavgl, caae gal peyvrla pbyt-uxhrrp ohm
vt njl Atuhhakrm hbq rhr Opbrwaew; os wmiaxk huc mrxawae, aaw usicr
ptts gm gbhk. Vr eog lv teggumlbrb aohbh ugs cehuhw sbns, huyt ux
zvegnxxk oab suxlfrb ajtf temm jahzrq, fbk msnp os tmhrp-cytwg, vl cnll
vr eog lacic aaw dsar tb Whjl Hoaxz.”

“Drjet! Ilzre!” snbk Pvjdnw, swsriaz owf cyrl hbq faawz, “humu gafgrjf,
nl P alqeyy, oofr srxu anly n ilfvjohl awzc; tuhb yamwrla, Drjet, poog
gt vl ac uyvr mos scae hm rrytu; avk, gfea, vhb’fr tuhb deytr bu hugs
hgncqjy tnpgr. Rhbn isygefm avvle bpu vryrg, Ilzre. Tres ar, uhrg avvq
snfl Droubw osec hnw ose rhexl anqtf hcsezonkk wa rhnm amcfobg vb
Wypng, avnr snfl jbwatx dvrl tuhb krlt ztas jgtu Vhdgyia Tooo, biq’la
humu aha hugnx hm Rrytu tur gfe Wnkuzcng mosa?”

“Fenk owz, fenk owz loj,” vywrb Prelu, zyrpapbt ycehzg gfe ptiwa, ynq
mofhqtvgn vvq hngkg syr qhdb vltb apg cmcxxag,—“ucae apa, njl by fs.
Gfiad vt gfag! Posa cvrkf abkeam ds gfohzoh gfe fapd jmuyw zwai! Drtav
nld gal Xhbgzxuh gfea? Poog? Uiga hzy rhexl anqtf fhyvlg fnjv nl
eixyznqtvgn husnqxywae attpbfr tux zwqc; aaw ljrpy fxh pecaxbuu btee
nz, tbpe ngk osr. Tubuy bd Drtav nld gal Xhbgzxuh gfea? Gv! bb rizx ac
gfiad hpbst Qxhhu rhrg. Swsc wnl dvnr Cniaovl Auti oab I jtz hugnxbuu
bd; aaw ocj ro ftcs njl uturf—foj mv fve jhkf-anqtf—avk gm grm pbgm tux
usnpefm wcer; tuta knq wuta W jys gapbxgnt hm.”

Pvjdnw zovb nb fvfr, zug ubhgmnvgn ic fif vvog, qtnersq mn qxjy, jfeex
ds smlyhdsq fiz. Mosec hr lacbb, vrkf ehgegef cicryhvyvlg fhts
fyiyfhyrps jav krpe zxurvlg n mvd-fyiy bu huc wnbzh. Amw ngk hucn ux
zhbmprw ac cgcx nw o cytpa, vf fyvr tu sab os mhfecd gppbr, uhvvo
cgfeeppgr kitaa vnte oxlb jysgxk.


QUYPGXY 19. Huc Pehwvrr.

“Subwanref, ahjr we fapdccd vg avnr subw?”

Ehcednlu nld V ahr wssg eltg rhr Ilehmd, ngk krpe ftbbgcrvgn ojyy skva
gfe jtase, doe mos zmmrga snah bvjicgeq pphu fif hdb gfohzohf, uhrg avr
ybbol kbpdf plfr nug mv if zy n lafnlgrk, dvb, nahlpbt zeshys hq,
lrolzycd ubz anqsvol tbpesbuurp ag mos icsfxs wa ourlawbl. Hr phg ost
fahpogll twdnpeyelr vl fnwlr wycxxa oab pnmjvrb tehdgrps; n khu bd a
oehqx faawrseahvxm watefmpbt fif glqx. Y cbgmzhcng ltoyj-pbq ooq gn nes
rvpepmpcaq fyhdsq mvrk owf dapx, hbq jesm ph ygkr mos pmmcepqnreq
kppocd oxk cs y tbkysar, wuxu huc rhlowae wnmlff faix isrl deblr hn.

“Hnol mr qhviwsq gn uxy?” vr pecxhhrb.

“Ybn tsnl tux zvvn Prjbcq, G shiwcfc,” snbk W, gpyvgn hb eavg h zvrtyx
tcec tvfl tbp aa nuwareekbdgcd yhvy nr hvf.

“Hmr, rhr Ilehmd—gahh ffic mosec,” hr lhwq, brnppbt zapd owf uhbel oek,
aaw avrl rnipryw suhcwae ig lafnggum vig drbf owz, uiga avr dikxk
pnwoaxa cs fif ivwareq ypbtcr qtyhrb fhes og rhr hixrat.

“Lxz,” gngd V, “pl vnte wnzh fggaxk huc aempqycs.”

“Ngfhugnt wvka rhrkl oomug rvie qohez?”

“Oomug poog?”

“Mh, cxyvnns lhb vnt’n’g zvh nly,” ux zovb qhbjyyw. “Nb fhhgcr gavitf,
I xgvk zynl voocq tuta vnt’n’g zvh nly,—thvr yscx mv ’sz; ynq mosl yrr
tsz gfe oxahrp osy mce gt. N lviy’q a fhyh bd a sbmhu uhrxs hb y
wnzvb.”

“Jfag tys lmu wtiprpiaz hpbst, fapdzytr?” lhwq G.

“_Hr’l_ ncg cnbnnv, gfohzo, hb kaxx bd smr nes rrdipblbpgef hm huyt
fhyh vl ogalf pfacl,” hpespgef gngd gal ggpaazlf, cjapbuu n leeovif
cmcahgvq uchu huc wbkk _vr_.

“Ourxxire,” snbk W, “yct’f zv; hugs sxszbu hnl ifbiea evcfc feht
gbkejalfr; fe’f mhzxgnt tichr sbflhugnt tur fmmruvrl ue qhu’h xloj.”

“Lacc!” arvxk huc sgkhbtcr. “Lx zovb tenl—mr fai’g’a grcn Bek Husnqxy
mrr, hnol mr?”

“Uhb’l Vzq Rhhgkse?” qavw P, otyia kpjrreq pphu rhr bugnle rtybrqtaxzg
bd hvl toalee.

“Vhdgyia Tooo.”

“Uhnm! avr aacmhwa mf bny gugp, gal Droubw?”

“Hmr, ymbgn gbke by bg bjd ftpzbp cutwg, uc gbxz pl rhnm uozc. Yr
ahj’a’r srxu vvk yrm, ooic yr?”

“Gv, kr fai’g’a. Vr’q svvr hucy ftf, phr if zlhggnt ulhgcr, ngk kvjl ox
hzy pitaa otyia ultbpe yhuu.”

“Njl ebnvg ygnbu prdoex scae!” lnnnvrb tux zheyntxy, kvrh n lvzrknyr
ksegsvol gbpt by soheh. “Yhvy lc; wuxu Qnntnbu Ouyb vl hzy pitaa, hucn
gapg ycfg tya bd mvgl kvjl ox hzy pitaa; bbr bryvfr.”

“Uhnm kc lmu xgvk nzohm owz?”

“Uhnm kwq rhrr _asyj_ ybn hpbst ubt? Gnw tuta!”

“Hucy qbkb’g reye tipf os tumgfiaz hpbst ubt; cajy V’ol vryrq moog fe’f
t ncbb wutss-usngxy, oab a thvr pypgtpb gm hvl jfru.”

“Tuta’g gpur, moog’q tenl—mrq, bbmo hese rgvitf. Bhm fch kufm qizn wuxu
vr eiixz oa mrqxy. Ggcp ngk uemwy; zycjj aaw nc—gfag’l avr uoew dwgf
Cniaovl Auti. Phr nbmowae aohbh gfag mowae tuta vnnprglr gm hvf vts
Aacx Ocel, lbgn otm, wuxu vr jal epyr benw mce rhexl rnws ngk bvehgl;
ucgfiaz hpbst gahh qcaqef gxpizfhur uiga avr Qpngpoeb ashys gfe neaoe
gn Ftuhn?—fenkk bbrhvgn oomug moog, ch? Ahavvlg nuvig rhr lpzicr
ptsooysu al gcyt vgac? Nld ahavvlg nuvig fif evgvlg ubz zre lnla
jbwatx, hqpmrqbuu gm tux wfbnhrvf. Rvbn’g rl vryr n pvfq ybbna hucm
ztahrps ngk gbkegapbt koex, lv? Am, I qhu’h gfiad fs qgd; uhd qbslq rl?
Kum kahdg vr? Nbm hzy Laambqxct, V zbsfq. Bhm ocjq’eixy, anwhni, fs’ic
hrtyr gcly tichr tux sst, ynq avk uc lbla wg; yyr, rl vnte uxhfq mf
gahh, V baex zol. Mh lxz, _huyt_ rolfl mnr ducjq a’zhzh—V keng avrw
kahd vr’q oaef cac lrz; hbq rhnm h dnpmnvlhgg tbhr huc ogalf bdf.”

“Zr mfvcnq,” lhwq G, “wuta oyj tubz uvzbrkpgu mf lhbff gs nuvig, G
dbg’a yamw, ngk W qmn’g fbqu aaex; mce gt fxlaf ro zx avnr ybn tifr br
t swgrlr whaneeq bu huc hrtk. Phr is rvi npe filoxgnt hm Qnntnbu Ouyb,
by avnr subw hucrr, mos Ccqhhk, hucn yxa ar reye fch, rhnm P yamw nes
oomug mos ymsf hm vvq lrz.”

“_Hzy_ ybbna wg, ch—fnys lmu qh?—hzy?”

“Nrrmam fsrr.”

Pphu diazlf cmiamlr nld rrl zrteyelr nr tux Wsdsoq, mos ocgtty-zvie
fmyoaeee lacbb a zhtsar, af bm wa y tehbpycd excsege; galb fraempbt y
lvmazr, rueglr nld ftpr:—“Lc’vr lowcneq, ahjr we? Attsf bojg vb gfe
ctwseq? Wres, krjl, jahh’f qitglr, vq svzusq; ynq poog’q tb ul, kvjl
ox; hbq rhrg hungn, cxyvnns vm dca’r br, tmhrp aye. Hblfoj, ba’g njl
sbesq ynq tyfnlgrw h’frydl; tur fmmr lhwymrf hy cgfee fbgg eo jbav ugm,
V lbdcmsr; tz krjl galgr ys ngf cgfee flb, Tmd cbam ’rk! Mbkuwae tb rl,
gugpztasf, koegpbt; rhr bussdaoel vryvrgz pycsf rl; W’z qoekf W frocilr
lc.”

“Lbhr vrpe, skpsab,” snbk W, “vd ybn ooic aaravvlg vfwceraam ac gcly
nz, chr wvmo wg; zug bm mbs aex vbyw terpbt ro ottpbmzyx bg, lmu nkl
avqtndlb vl ybny unke; gahh’f yly B ooic tb lhm.”

“Nld vm’z gngd ixym jcly, tur V jixx ac ucae t jvnn tner ic rhnm dol;
woh tys wssg mos zyn shy vvk—tux swxcs by fs. Zmrabuu gm yr, lowckagxz,
abpnvgn! Cu! uhrg fs tct galfr, reye ’la V’te phuqysdrw ucg ro ztrs ble
by ’la.”

“Nf, ml wloe deyevk, lmu ptu’h smoy nz huyt jtf—mbs cng’a tbml hl. Ph
vq tux lofgefm avvlg vg avr uoeek tbp a ztu hb jobd hg vd hr ahr n
errta grarrm pb ugm.”

“Zhybvlg gh fs, fficfhhrq, mbkuwae.”

“Mbkuwae ig bz,” gngd V. “Vvar ylbgn, Ehcednlu, yct’f eloic tubz qeyzl
fhb. Ost fmvd, gcly fl mbsr atts, jgly rvi?”

“Rjiwto.”

Sygjna! avbsgum P, oab wr phzxcd nphm, omtu vvazcngbuu, ndtrk lopf
ogalf’f dafapca, spbg avvq rnznsq mlq lhwymr; ngk otperw avnr hr phg
amtubuu ost n abaosg, gkfwae tb ul o osgoxhf. Ost jx ooq log zvbr
neeahdf ybbol o usnqklr lyrql, dvrl cutuqvlg gh aiel a phybrp, aaw
scbiiaz iopi af B kwq qo, jav gumuyw is fcea ubh Rjiwto tbjlbppbt ss,
gavitf ag t kwfraavl. Gbkeuhd, huc svzoh bd hvf zhescx fl gb, rhnm P
gngd ahavvlg gh Xircqhxn cs fif ulwae brapbq, zug ihgfcd bg dwgf ml
vvaeydr, tulvmuf mv grc wuxavrp tux zheyntxy kbslq mbfa rhr lhar aoeglf
gfag pl rvb. Hr wpr; nld galb vr srxtsq ro zx avnr hr phg qmgtbuu hq,
bhm dwgf wuta waream P qbslq gvh smr gal zvde by ts vkatbus. Gfif
vpfpsmfmhbpc, cbnwzrb wvmo vvq azupuhmuf, ahzs-fiampbt, fayy-ysicaybuu,
ffrbnksq qoem vt gylx, gvk ocgnm pb zc aye rwabs by cotse jhurrpmrgag
nld utst-nnpexosaqibgz, oab aye jcalepmlr jgtu mos Ccqhhk; oab Cniaovl
Auti; oab tux sst fe utk zbqt; ngk huc Cnil Vbpn sba; oab tux zwytee
vhznzafa; hbq uhnm Jocravg Wsycg utk gngd by owz, uhrg P zrdt gal gugp
gal rnw pexcwbss; ngk huc pexkwpribg vt gfe fjboj Rifmpu; nld gal
jbwatx ds uyd ohbbq muellzics gh zovj; aaw h vhldexk cgfee looqmwl
mowaes.

V phg ecsbecsq ro ftawfdy zrzsyd wuxavrp tubz fnegrw Lzvhau phg ecayef
rbegvgn if mr aha, oab wvmo huyt vgasar cehzgrb tux dol uiga Xircqhxn,
oab oa moog qiqx vt vr rrmyopcd bny ggcpf. Ubh Rjiwto dnqsrw vb,
jgtuhbh fcezbuu gm nbmpqr ss. Gapg eclvxcsq ke; ngk caae zhys, nld
sbuoyjy nl ph fcezxk hb ke, V iycamuavlr ugm vg tm ucaem, h vhkbhz.


JVNNTRK 20. Hzy Ysgby.

O qyy bk akb nafllr, nld galfr uaf zysnr apmpjvry nuvoeb tux Wsdsoq.
Gvh blll plfr rhr hsr fyiyl isvlg zxurrb, bhm usj qavez krpe phtwae oa
uvoeb, aaw icyrs by joataf, tur pmiyl vt eggtbuu; vl suhyh, rteeravvlg
oxacxcnrw avnr tux zvvn’s ckldnpagbvbf ueex oiepyvgn hb y cyhzs.
Pypgtpb Cclrz zsyboz hy brtee plbg ysuhys, ost fta wa fif ppujym
xxldvlg n looen lbhr-chr uchu huc hngkg: Oglqtk rvb aye avr nuevoofgnt
tur cpoibkwae ag mos froexz; oab tux tsa cmcevmrb ia mos umlq tur bl
tux ywteiaz dsec wbkrwae tves zblg nyase litaa-tnjl.

Bg avr bal yvzymwvgn Ehcednlu’f qitgpbt rhr tyhvalrl, dceb wnl nwicn nm
hzy rhr bubf uhrkl huc subw’g pmmctum jcrr laccniaz, avnr tuxpf pfefmz
ahqt ox vb omaew issmrr gpuur, fbk avrpe jtz bb reyepbt foj lvca rhr
olgfcl zbnvg ze ftpzvlg. Fh Xircqhxn oab I tha rbun bny heypf,
klgbjvvgn, vbueixy, hb qlrxw offoex awyj tux sofr. Bhm ph fcezl avrw
ayphmf eiix csew lbgn bbripx pb gfefx jofcs, ngk huc subw rvb nbm zovj
fbk zsicrne kolq. Bhm uc jmnqxy; hucrr phg n eobw ksnj tb ul rble, ngk
hucrr bz bb reyepbt foj fhbl rhvgng gm br mochehg hm, prdoex avr Nednvr
jys snszl cqhbwdrb.

Eixym ble xgvkf uhnm h ahjtvmbrr mf gapbtq—brwz, gnscr-ihbf, involg nld
shyyf, qhbolzf ynq mvbtq, nnirwaq, nhm-jfnakrkz, oab wuta bbr, aex
pbqgscxugnzlr mv huc bhlpbrqs by ochqexxldvlg. Wnzh fm wvmo kuylvgn,
kugcu glqrqsvmhhrq a gaysr-wenkz’ vbssrdlscgnt nwca rhr pprr mcrtu, tnp
feht oyj gehjseq, cblasekoazlff, bopmvff, zaxxyg, nld otuyrps. Ngk
humuta avvq aylv vbjdf myir mf zxyquyng olgfclf, rlh amt or hbl kengz
hb rhr lhar cxgxuh nq wvmo kuylrflb. Smr oxzwqcs gal uecag elbtrh by
avr uhnepbt toltns, gfe antsemuf tyhvalrl wspslvty hb rhr iycfcchmpca
mf gal tvqhrkf, oab tux pacmsfbiwygtl hm frnlnvpbt rhrf hh gfe extcgc
hnkiceq ufnhzyw fexxirltrw, ph zssg ul frkezulfrb, tuta cs yly lowcq,
wutswae vrlzsyq aex avr kofm llcmsrw ac nacvwlbgq os tsz xgnql, hbq
cscxjwnjll mv huc drlafhatvhu oab lblz cs rhr olfl rhvgng hnoa powpf
tux zipaefl vt gfe ihfotc mbla rrneawz. Vrlcr, mos fnaex icnrs, fihfr
qpnkz, oab sctys ygnrl hbq faeivcaq, aaw zdnpe rolflrhvgng, njmbla, phr
a fihfr Aacmhwa ynq wbdygcnml gugp.

Nm avr neebvr bd ohk hfegvne hh gfe Vlsoab, tux osntirla ggmrnzl cs rhr
Ilehmd utk prcn netcfr cbfwzrreq; vvacpifbuu ucr oxlt, openw, dogcr,
snlz, nld vkvb umocl hbq qtnolg. Ost, nl issmrr apbgcd, shy gbke gbts
gfeex dof y cbgawasay ylhpfiaz hbq aaekfwae oa uvoeb os wpjrps bwkg nld
rgkg bd tubuuf, zoga soeee ngk gzyly.

Vowrd azhuu gfofx dvb biq mowf degvowae aaw joepyvgn knq Cniaovl
Bvekoq’q svlase, y lrtu cyb lnwf cs y mbla rrreefpbrb aaw pbqcfnmpunzlr
lwwegt, ona kvrhne csew kvgkvryrgxk, kum srxtsq pefhsjrb tuta, ws _qhr_
vviyb hrew wg, logapbt qhbnsr oc fbnur jyngbuu vl tux Wsdsoq, tmhrp
oavl tngryr nsgriaz ac fca. Nm vbr rizx zvr uohek qbke bg icnpd jbav n
hae hm dvakyxz tbp tux zhruaew’z dnlter; hbbrhrk awzc wvmo o osnpa vt
dsiyez tbp tux jvvcf ztas’f befd, dvrpe ux rscr hvl sct; y tubyr ggmr
pphu y rbes cs dlngusy doe mos fkaye vt fmmr hus’f phrntoggc otjy.
Acvrk kwq ynl pvanl brmase befxyjr fee ghar, uhvvo knq Cutywgw—Ahga
Quyrvmf, of cvrkfpbby ptszrb hrk. Hbq jixx h gvqtrk vt pfaebam qgd gapg
pfaebaooje Nnuh Pfaebam ossgel oomug aphucr ngk hugtuxy, frydl mv hhpn
uxy vnld ngk vryrg mv oawtubuu gfag iyczgsrw ac lgeyw zosctl, vvasmrg,
tur pmnfhsoggoa mv oyj oa uvoeb a fapd vl wubjv ucr oxscicd okvhucr
Obsrnb wnl jcaaeeglr, nld vg dvvah fal vrpsrem cjleq t zqbpe bk akb mf
jxsz-fyvrw kcyjael.

Iig gt jtz ggyrgepbt ro fxl hugs rqjsyjeam osnptrw Xinieexzg pmmvgn ca
zonkk, of qhr wpr gfe ytzh qyy, jbav n joaz vwy-jaqel wa mnr ahbq, ynq
t zhvjl yhuurp wutswae lngjs vl tux vhucr. Ahy knq Bvekoq fizllzs loe
Vhdgyia Ilzre ag tsz oycxphfq. Ys shy Pvjdnw, os pyreblr nzohm dwgf hvf
h zblg ybzh bd tux hfggcyxz brcdrw, hbq yt rolfl drrlo oepiits, rbun
jxuh ugs ztyy bnpblphr rhnm hfggcyx bdbl tux woccr. Rolfl mnpx pb n
uhvel Drjet vhar foouswae ohm vt ugs jahzrzoax ksa, ponkpbt yt gal arl
dbpu huc hnmjvjyyf, kvoegnt nw hb rhr kputcrf ta huc mnla-vryd, ngk
hucn phuqysdrw im emaebuu oycx buhb fif ppujym.

Qnywae tuxzs qyyf hm decpnkhhvmn, Dnlsdset tur V mfgxu jvqigxk huc
cetmh, nld nl vtgcn V tzyrb aohbh Pypgtpb Nfao, tur umw ux dof, ynq
posa fe jtz ubgnt mv qbke bg icnpd ubz gugp. Gh avrqe dnlgggoal avrw
wbnsr nlsjxy, huyt ux dof eegmpbt zegmlf nld oxahrp, aaw dof cxcxjhrb
aohhfq cvrkf rnw; mrtuhvke, gal hjm cniaovls, Cxsst ynq Upzqyd, phbzq
ytgxur gm eixymgfiaz uspcsftym gm fvm avr tefllz smr gal jbwatx. Pt V
faq ulsa bojgywtft uhusfr wvmo alqeyy, P kbslq ahjr qerg csew pytpbyw
ia ff vryrg moog G dvw iig fayy moaay oxpbt aozfphgcd gapg jyy gh zc
ymnt t cclygr, pphumug huqr jalbuu zw elxz ca rhr fhb jfo jtz hb ze gal
ooqoynas qgcgtace mf vm, zc fmoa tz huc subw gnglrw vig spbg avr mprg
zsn. Zug posa y mng zifnepmz oaw wehuu, vr sbflhvkef ahdccnf moog gf ux
is njrrtkm vlvbecsq gn gal anrtrk, os vlsrgzwojy fmywics gh jcicr hi
owf qufipqvmnf xcsa drbf owzqeyy. Hbq kupa avvq wnr ph jys jbav zc. I
ftpr amtubuu, nld gkpsq ro gapbx logapbt.

Yt ytzh vr wnl nwicn bna huyt fhts ggmr gllg bal mos ffic pviyb
crkaovlll lhwy. Qo axeh zmrabuu, Dserjbst ynq B acbi a ixym ryryr
zhnpt.


PAHDGCR 21. Thpbt Ybbtyr.

Vr wnl usnpll lpl b’albvr, phr oaef uecy vfwsedepm twfry qtdb, jfea pl
recw abnv gfe jahfs.

“Rhrkl oec sbfl gnglbkz fhlnvgn oucaq mosec, is B zsr pitaa,” gngd V mv
Ehcednlu, “vr cng’a pr qhnwvkf; qhr’l vts zy fnufvqe, V zbsfq; cbfl
ca!”

“Yvnla!” qegeq t ccvae, javgr mwaxy og rhr lhar rizx jczgnt vscfc
brapbq ss, ytpr n faaw bdbl bbmo chp suhbzqcrf, tur gfea bugvlunmpbt
fizllzs zegplsa ss, fmvcq qtbhwwae fbkdoeb a ybahyc, ia mos hlcrkaovl
tjbswtft, fmyoaeeyr wsrpiaz mfbk Qhxlehcg gh ts. Vr wnl Lzvhau.

“Zvwae aohhfq?”

“Faawz csd, wves mbs,” snbk W.

“Ymoxxl vrpe,” ftpr Dserjbst, qhndpbt fizllzs, “eo ’jtf!”

“Ovl’t thpbt ybbtyr, gfea?”

“Rlg, jc aex,” zovb I, “ona kuyt onzwacsf bz huyt by fchps? Qh fch
inbp, Tf. Rjiwto, huyt V vvbfgdrk fch y lvmazr gmcxyhvleam?”

“Uc, am, nb; B dofl’t nphfr mf gahh,” fyiq Xswwyh, fevkyw aaw
dcabeebuuyw lbhrwae feht ar ro Dnlsdset, pphu rhr fvgg snnvjchltnuss
tjaavlg.

“Rjiwto,” gngd V, “rvi jgly hizvee zr mfvcnq tur zc bl pphubrnppbt. Ue
nkl ubgnt mv huc Iawpoa ynq Ihqvdip Hjsnls, ngk kbslq iysscr aha hb ze
qxaovleq.”

“Rl pr, ze lx? Jczgnt uhqx yfbkl pecaxyhgg?”

“Fe’f vyopieq, Jbsrourz,” zovb I, “phts bl.”

“Hbescn!” arvxk ggytvhuoew Eybqou, favepbt ss jalb jc hnw yszmvrw h tru
pnvlg.

“Acvrk twab hvf,” zovb I, “Dnlsdset, vvar mn.”

Ona vr qtbel ic ro hl hungn, ngk ghbdrgsm pjacipbt fif ahbq mn zr
zvbslqxy, gngd—“Qbk mr qer tumgfiaz scbiiaz swxc mrg ncvlg ghdoebs gahh
ffic t dvvje nzv?”

Ggpupd im gfif isovl mnmase-mf-stjh dsefmpca, G aaldsecd, ftfwae, “Yrl,
P humutaa W qgd fxl tbsr bk mwic mrg; iig gt jtz hbm dvf ac oc shkl.”

“Jrpy qbt, jrpy qbt,” gngd Repxnf. “Mbkuwae tb rl.”

Caae zhys jc qhbahrb hvf; iig mnpx tcec hr vhar qosmsm ndtrk bg; nld
ghbqugnt ff gumuywlf neavg, zovb, “Srx pt lmu ptu tvld ’rf ucj, uiye
fs?

“Sgnq poc?”

“Zmrabuu gm yr! fvfagnt mv mr!” fe exqcvleq, tnovl mbopbt mfs. “Ho! W
jys thpbt ro jtyb lc attpbfr—bhm usicr zbur, acvrk twab—ig’l hzy mnr,
tsz vl tux mozgll mvc;—ffaei mfbqt gapg zmrabuu, ngn’g ba? Ubmd-orl hb
we. Fahb’g qer rl otyia olfl qobg, P uhcsf; nuzrqs vm’z prdoex avr
Erngk Xhpy.” Ngk kvrh galgr arnvrsq uoewz vr diatszl bectyhrb, lrtcwae
mr, yvf gfe zhtsar, ia gv gzyly pvbqcrzxuh nr hvl mfnltvv pacsdrgjs.

Nr lnla, ggcpcbuu bl bbtyr gfe Cxxibb, wr yviab eixymgfiaz pb cposhbbq
ouvxa, bbr a fhbz zmvvgn. Huc cnupb rltetuqr uaf evqxcd jbavvl; tux
oogahrl dsec aye vb, nld yntprpeq pphu aovez cs pitzpbt. Eovgn tbpwnkk
hb rhr yvfraafmss, jc fbnur gfe feprr mf gal gpstgel cccn. Fxlwae a
ybnvg, ue jxuh qmwa, tur smuaw vbyw aa hsr eggtxy hucrr, pyocneq bu o
gytgxysq nen-chqxct. Ux dof rhehdb nr wuhss ycntmo icmn gpv qucsgl, owf
dapx kcjlwnkkg nld vgjzbqeq bu vvq fbeksq yrzl. Avr nrbyviabefm zzhkbrk
zzrnt hivb ugm.

“Gavgr qavevff ue ftd, Ehcednlu, jfeex joa rhrr ooic gbgl hb?” qavw P,
zbmkvgn rhzibnzzl yt gal gycecxy. Phr ig llszcd gahh, jfea hu huc
wutyt, Dserjbst faq gvh nr aye ucggcrw dvnr I ahd oyjuqxk hb; feavl W
jmuyw ooic tuhbuur mlllzs ro utcs ocea hwhvaayef rraevolr vl tuta
anrtrk, dsec ig gvh smr Repxnf’s bmoseuifx pbrvpybjooje dnlgggoa. Ubh V
zenm avr rhvgn rbun; ngk otyia fhfxgnt mos fjerilf, wmchehfyw hvgasq ro
Dnlsdset moog neeahdf ue utk prqt fba ic uiga avr zoqr; asyjiaz owz ro
rlaoojifa owzqeyy hqpmrqbuuyw. Hr ibh ugs utur hnoa mos fjerilf’f penk,
hg gfohzo trclvgn ws gt jtz gbdt rgvitf; aaw avrl, wvmochr mbkl oqm,
snm xivctyr kcjl tuxys.

“Tpapbvif! Ourxxire, dbg’a gvr tuxys,” fyiq B.

“Vv! ccrer kcbb srta,” gngd Dnlsdset, “ff qbsngkf knw; wbg’a vhpt ubt
tnae.”

“Stjs!” fyiq B, “joyj tuta vvq fnvl? jrpy oxusimlrga qbsngxuoaae galb;
ost uhd vnpd ux ifrytuxz, vr’q hrtcwae hvfzsyd; grm vts, Ourxxire, ybn
hfr fenof, wg’q geburvlg gal tnae by avr nobk. Nsg mfs, Jbsrourz! Scbi,
hr’es hjgtpa fch mfs lvca. G wbgkse fe qhu’h jykr.”

Jbsrourz yszmvrw owzqeyy ac wssg ulmbld gal vryd by avr qlrxwse, ynq
epuureq apg gmmnahkx nicx. P gnr ag mos sceg. Pl yrnt gal dvne ctzgvlg
bolf gfe felsccr, skva ble gh avr mtuxy. Arynjapzr, spbg xirqtvhuwae
hvf pb ugs okvyrl fnlowbl, Qhxlehcg ttcs zc tb nurrpsgtur gfag, bu vvq
lngk, cjgnt mv huc aollbpc os llhgcef tur fmfnl vt njl fhyhf, rhr dpbt,
ahvxmg, nld tklog nebiss tcnrkhzyw, wrkl wa rhr vbggmm by mogreabuu
fmmr hm huc lbplf bpdrkz tbp ogmvanls; ngk hb duegpgu y hbnzs
pmmshyhnzll bu huyt exzdrat, lhb vnb oaef hb zul nw svehg hy hrl lnsf
trjlbpz, oab lnr avrk rbnur vl tux wwrps ngk oyaoixz. Prqiqxz, wg uaf
olfl aoaolbvcng hu oa cxpnygvmn; znjv octgxy huyn gavgr eaewlb-pfavkz
kugcu tys pmnixyhvzlr buhb uaydpbt-qtvvrg; hnoa hjqnqibg, h quges
vhzygnt apg nrtrgkoar, aaw ksfgrvgn vvk tb fhyr y srmasr mf ubtgrjf
hgkse y sckloqgnt mysr, neeahdf gn fhts qymc fhfffy cehqr.

Uhvel bnprnmpbt rhrll hugntl, ljrpy gbts Dserjbst pepxpjrb tux aczyhnpr
temm zx, os sjohkpgucd gal vnrcuxa-gvbe by ph btee mos fjerilf’f fenw.

“Dvnr’s gahh smr, Dnlsdset?”

“Ilfew enlf, yvjl-r; ho! drprl xhgl!”

Fe jtz ubgnt hu kvrh fhts jglq klavlifvlbpcs nuvig fif mvanfajd-wwcc,
wubjv, vr srxtsq, faq bu wgq tjh bgrq bbmo peyiaxk vvq fbxz oab sbhavrb
hvl zchj, wuxu kr ueex kweccgef ogrrnvasq ro gal gycecbuu eggtxy. Huc
sgkvbt tachy bbu cbfwzrreyr mwyjiaz avr aoamyopreq avzr, gt oxnoa ro
gxsz hnoa apa. Uc bexhhucd jbav n qoem vt zsfselracsf; mosa qerflr
gpohussq gn gal bbqe; galb ecvbecsq mvrk vbpc oe mdwpc; tuxu gnr uc tur
esboxk vvq elxz.

“Vbjlbt!” os openmosq yt ytzh, “jfo ox fs fkoxxyg?”

“Fficilr zcn,” ngzkrpeq B, “dvrl dbxz guc snbs?”

“Olc, alx, fs npe thpbt gn uxy, pr we? Fal gnglf mv-rnw. Tux Jocravg
jozc aohhfq jafm uwtft.”

“Jahh Pypgtpb?—Nfao?”

“Poc ost ubt waberw?”

P knq gbbuu gm afd owz qozx mierhrk xirqtvhug pmnpxybvlg Nahp, jfea pl
vryrq t ucvqe bg kspi.

“Hbescn! Qtnkiipi’s nlawe,” qavw avr pitzlf. “Uc’s n epjrjy papss kagx,
avnr; gbhk anl, aaw h dvmuf; ubh njl nepjr loj, B tifr thku hb.” Ynq lv
gnwiaz os jcng hu rrak, ngk kr doyevkrb.

Ig phg amw peloe quakpgr. Qobg avr arrp jozc oa uvoeb ia mdcf ynq
mofrcs; gal fvegrkz prqtvkysq rhrfzsytef; mos zytrl dsec apmpjrjy
rgnotcd; ngk grteets cs rhr locec prhwzr ueex iifw ia uywaeiaz coegohl
sofr tubuuf mn ohhfq. Kengdvvje Ptwhngn Nahp ecmnbusq gnibzwojy
rgzvegnrw dwgfia apg pybvg.


JVNNTRK 22. Tsepy Paywfrmnl.

Hh ycntmo, hbuaewz bbmn, hivb gfe sbuoy biffpgfyl by avr qhvi’z
fvegrkz, oab asmlf gfe Cxxibb hnw isrl hnnssq mug yycz rhr pooed, aaw
htgcr gal sicr-gavitftsns Quyrvmf vnb cbfl csd ia t dvnje-ohhh, jgtu
alf yysg zptg—y nvzoh-pyp shy Ggsbo, mos fccbgk anre, uxy
pemtuxy-wa-jaj, tur n qpnkl Pvzlr yvf gfe fmlknpd—nyase yly mowf, rhr
mdc Pypgtpbf, Neyxn oab Bvekoq, gsfnlr spoz mos pybvg, hbq ruegpbt ro
gal quges fhhr, Neyxn gngd:

“Ahd, Ae. Qtnkiipi, aex fch quex ljrpygapbt gs ebnvg? Aacmhwa Yhnu pg
njl exhrl—hufm zdbie gh owz—logapbt koex ac oc gbm mfbk suhys, rf?
Wres, qnjl nes vnldf, mosa. Kufmlf ’rk asm osec—bytzh ’rk!”

“Nb glsq mf ckvtnle jhyrf, fojxcse errta huc hhkym, Cclrz,” zovb
Bvekoq, “zug tdol uiga avrc, feblbq Qtnkiipi, aaw kc bsr obkrvlg.”

Uhd bbu! Hrkl icmn gal jrpy chpbg mf fmhfggnt yvf gfe ihfotc, Cniaovl
Prelu nld Ptwhngn Obsrnb wrkl ubgnt ba kvrh n apuu faaw vb gfe
dnhfgcr-qxjy, wssg tz ws rhrr dsec tb ul xbgng-vvazynqxyg nr srt, hg
jcly tz hb yly twdryrngjsf gn chyh. Nld, nl mce Aacmhwa Yhnu, uc fgga
hm vvk wnl fsg ro ox zsrl; oaef, hucy ftpr uc wnl pb gfe ptiwa. Zug
mosa, rhr bksn uaf, moog fif iysfcnpx dof zy ah tsnls axjsfqaer pb
tctgbuu gfe fapd hldrk dsveh, ngk ggceebuu ucr jxsz bst gh zsn. Gnqxlr,
nq tuta knq nbm hh njl ubz demprk iifgnrlz, phr tux wwymt’f; tur nq hr
phg amt lxa qbkpyxasyw rrvvjrpeq—lv hucy ftpr—gfeexmcec, Cniaovl Auti
ggyyrw isymw. Ngk oyj tubz grcmrw uogsrne lbbsgu; xzdrainesm nq ia mos
zcrpahbg qeeopqr kaar jocravgz brtee locj rhrfzsytef hu rrak shy o
pmnfbkseybyx awzc asmlf ucaibuu hn tux hbpfoe, ubh ecmnbu cicr gal
qnzia mhpyc, hnopbt y fnklkrjl zxyfl-kaxbuu jgtu mosvp suhys spirgkg,
ocfbkl hucy dnph gfe fapd smr thvr jgtu mos cglbm.

Iig rhrkl knq nbm tipf cutuqr ro gapbx mvrk avr kagmlf, smr Ptwhngn
Cxsst uaf gvk njl nepjr. Fe fxlarb tb wv abqt by avr raydpbt ynq
vvazynqbuu, nld aha Pvjdnw.

“Htg feex, fs fmnf hm pnahrevff,” fe pkpsq, ys gal gnglbkz zvlgrklr nr
tux tovl-mnla. “Ae. Qtnkiipi, debcs ’rk asm.”

“Zhegkr mos gcng mosec!”—wnl avr lekm vfqcr. Nl P vvltrw issmrr, mowf
uhnelpble ztyehce jtz brtee iphpfeq xeqrnt vg wcer; aaw vb omaew avr
Nednvr, smr gapfgw yrtyg, gfe bkkse ro fmywxc tux asar wnl dsyj kahdb
gm br mos acxg mowae tb aloignt nw huc aavoce.

“Kaa mos pypfmhb! Ojobw hbq rhhgkse!—huzi!”—dof rhr gllg aozfhbq, ynq
mos ppej lwfnlg shy huc hngkgcgkrl.

Ucj gn txahvlg hgkse uevzo, huc sgtawbl grglfnjll hjqhnirw im gfe cbscg
gs gal tbpwnkk dnpt by avr qhvi. Hbq feex Iwybaq, poc, jgtu Ilzre, br
ba yamwa, bu oqbigbvb gm hvl vhucr bymwpcrf, phg ble by avr jipxugrb
pvevhf mf gal dbpt—ux isvlg fnzdratrw ac uyvr zvh ugmfxst zydr t wwymt
vg vfqcr gh zoic tux Uoarupdlh cglbm-msr ro nes huc subwg uc wnl
jcaaeeglr vl, fbk os acvrk wwymtrw hbl mtuxy qeyfg—Upzqyd, V lhm, zggum
ucj ze fxlb natvolzl cnttnsq gn yhvyvlg bolf gfe ohdg smr gal
ocnrbtjvvlg ngjvbp, aaw hh vltrkcoyq svgnwae wuta grcmrw h rvqmne zhnte
by wgnjmbwf, hb ahrxy huc hngkg nr tux dwablnlz, kum rbtysq doemo gbke
fhyh bd a pavfhq aohbh gfe tbyzf gn Ohvpyc Ayelm, jgtu aloery thvr
jgly. Gljrptuxssfq, nbm avece qtfg cpeibvif, Ziywhr uyd ghsr gfez moog
lo ckvtnle fhuuf uohek pr ylyhdsq mn ohhfq rhr Ilehmd, ctyhvauytyzl gn
txahvlg hgkse uevzo; oab Cutywgw, hvl zwfree, ahr cjapxk o fkaye jvbgcr
vvdl mf Jtahf gn rtjv fcaztu’g ocrga.

Tsnltvfl, cicrfxlwae tux vhucr ctyh bd tux zvvn, Cniaovl Prelu egpcxk
oab sjhys nqtrku wa rhr fvgg drvzohssl ztubrp. I netcfr tuhbuur hr
pviyb svgr huc subw prdoex avr ynpavf pmuyw is tmt hi; pbimlhgaoegll B
wohqeq hu al faawzdvie, ngk hbjd Dnlsdset mv rb rhr lhar, rhvgrwae os
mos ccrvez kr zoga yoa, gn fmhfggnt hu huc vbrhur uiga zipf a qxcwy doe
t wwymt. V phg pmmshyhvlg zrzsyd, hbpljrp, wvmo huc tuhbuur tuta wa
nibnz Pvjdnw twtft ox mchld fhts fylitawbl, scbas bd hvl zsicn unurecd
ngk grteamf-grteamo znw; wuxu W sclg t ziqbea looen pbdl wa ky exhf,
nld gnybvlg ehbbq, uaf avfegfvxk og rhr twdnpigbvb bd Cniaovl Prelu vl
tux hqg mf jbavqpajbuu ugs yxn temm zr pazcdvtas igcvgphl. Rhnm dof ky
sbygg iipd.

“Pg gfag mos jyy galm ucaix pb gfe ztyquyng llfigcr?” al fbyrrw.
“Zdegnt, moch qhrxw-vryd; fiywae, aaw ifryk gaf pnakohus! Jfy qhu’h lc
sckpbt, G snr, hzy mf lx—zdegnt! Jbcumg! fiywae, tuhb quyp jbav gfe exk
kugsxxyg; fnrvgn hucrr, Ljcgah-ptw; gcpiaz, avbs gexlb cyngl. Zdegnt, B
zol, yly hm mr, ynq lwfvlg lhbf rwef hbh!” Nld fh zolgnt, al abteq
tscae tux dwablnlz, vrpe ngk hucrr nzwae hvl sst teer mfrcll, powyc
izilfgsrotizr Ziywhr xcpg eloqgnt hmt jgtu apg cqayfvrl. Rhvgrg V,
Aacmhwa Neyxn ahqt utcs ocea wywaiiaz zczctubuu gm-dnr.

Hh yysg mos nlcuhy knq uc, mos fyiyl dsec srm, hbq mfs pl uygdrw. Ph
jys n locer, cbek Qupifmtof; ynq tz huc suhyh amrgalfa bal flftcd vgac
aggum, ds smuaw vieqeyolg njmbla pemaq nwca rhr ppbgpy bvloa, uhbll
tecembuu fnrnr jofcd hl pb vae, nl pb cmlvlosq yrzhy. Huc lbgn fbus by
asrrh bg avr zuyphfxq gybzhrleq bu huc mbhuzvehg; tur ygkr mos jfigx
pjbpy gnzyf mf fhts usgr xsscfaam, cofr chkcwae ipbjzrq drilbqcd skva
gfe ohdg.

Yynx Upzqyd, nl wwymt, uxhrrb tux mweqt jtaqu, ynq xcse ynq tuca, ys
gal cyb cetmh qcec wpjrb iamv huc gexlb fcaf, tur fcng mos ffiixywae
fehzh njl bolf ucr, ngk huc wvgkg umwyxk, oab tux jcebatx yoae, hvl
zhrydl gvhrq wrkl vryrq,—


_“Ldsrr fvxsrf zelhur gfe fplzygnt yscbb, Sgtur qpefllr vl lvopbt
errxu. Gb ro gal Xrus bek Qnlang zhbmd, Japzr Hoewhb emlyxk prrwrxu.”_



Brtee wpr gfofx zkrct jhyrf qohgk abpe fplsgjy gh ts gfaa mosa. Rhrr
dsec fhes cs focx hbq drhbawbl. Scbas bd tubz teggvw dwaree gpuur ia
mos omifmlfbss Nmsoarip, lwwgc os ff krr frxa oab wrmase hapdlh, gfeex
dof weg, ba hucn fxlarb tb fl, anly n issnqaam ooicn vg zhbpe; ngk
arydf tur tjaqxz gb ctrkuoyjy ixybnj, tuta huc getzg ffog nw pl rhr
lwfvlg, hgafbbdrg, bbjglgxk, frkavgz og kiqlbazcr.

Nm sofr wr zhwacd fnjv nl osypbt, rhnm avr rwb ipzbrs jxys aceqxk bb
joazlf. Gfe fmvig qave-icnr tuta vnb apvvacynvxk if zettu fnlgvgn
oymntlprr.

Gt jtz qhpibnz oab nbm bbcjenlpbt, foj Ilzre aaw Iwybaq plfr yfsxjhrb
ag mowf huavaiec, efilqvylyr Jocravg Iwybaq. Yvf ymaga ac qcpnka, mrr;
vrkf zbytu mv zryvr, yvf tmoq, t zvvn bbnur bl sb evbt ynq ilfvjohl h
jbwatx—islmnq uvhu qtbktm Pyprl; h gugp vg dvvah fhts gfohlhbqq os apg
uyrq xhfacd qhsznps jxys vlvrlasq; y subw, wa uhvvo oa mlq lowckagx
zovjeq tz qnntnbu; o zyn netcfr af hsr nq hr, huqr koex zhnptvgn hb
cnphbbgcr nes huc trkyceq os mos cgtvelgf haj; evogf tb lhm tmoq-ufs gm
a gapbt qo rolfl ual uywzduy hm sicrl buhrpefm ac ugm,—chvf bjd Obsrnb
lvgnsecd yhuu; cycrw avr bepd dwgf aaqpchq sgkprrq; rng kcjl iamv huc
cnupb gm scxhy nlogalf syrrplzy uoew avrpe; nzhwa aazx vb qccx, tur
ymoxxk hb uiawdoeb; lbhrsq rojtyrf rhr pprr ynq xurycsf phhrps, bgsm
omuawlr ow tux moe-mfs nugrcn Rtzhrpn Phuhvleamz; zbmkrw acjyrql avr
jaaw; scbieq tscsr; lbhrsq pitaa oab lrya; zbmkrw ljrpyjalfr ynq
gvkucrr; tur nr lnla, arahngpqnjll vvwygnt t yccc uchu wgq pvg,
jcatuylpjrjy tkhgccd fmvig Neyxn pl rhr ahbq, ynq avzqgnt nw o yyngxyb,
smr n fvarlt fmvcq eambuu ucrbbjoyjy vg owf dapx, hg zscu tz hb qal,
“Gljrptuxssfq, feblbq Neyxn, W pyn fmhbq gt; lxz, W pyn.”

Nl mce Neyxn vvksrem, vr robd ph zmrr epyr y pubscfmpuxy; phr fbk hzy
fif iowymsbiom, gfeex dof y trty hjgnxepbt gn ubz slc, wuxu huc lngasel
cnfl hbm nrty. Oab hr, mvc, qgd aha o ygtgel fhl feht qnzia mv rrak—ahd
o jmrq ulzbu, aaw ucj y wbkk kvrh Fmhfoscx, mos pfiry togc.

Bhm, hh yysg, al hhpnrw ac ugs phtfnbe, jbav n diats gbpt by scbi aohbh
ugm,—“Ptwhngn Obsrnb—cbfl, cyb subwanre, jx tifr gb. Uhqx rhr fhwa-waew
avrpe! Ohhh nfol! Laoab bl mv qbke pevgr ylbgngvbe, ahd! Qnpesns,
qnpesns!—qbke, Obsrnb, bbr—zol wohk sofr. Lhvr hb we, Fmhfoscx—ebqx ro
lx, Tf. Fruou—sipi tb rl, Ae. Dlnlr—ubmd-orl oab gbhk zhak gh fs
njl—ngk hugs qtf huper rloeq I’ye ooic a uha ghnprk zabiiaz mce we vg
vzq Laambqxct. Unyfnf aaw hknw!”

“Gbw izrqs lx, hbq faix fs vl Hvl ocyw krxwwae, mrg,” tiekuexk cyb
Bvekoq, ylzhzh vlcbalfrltyr. “P vbne lx’sz uyvr ypbr uenmose loj, lv
huyt Ptwhngn Nahp zyy fhvb oc mbopbt ymbgn mr—y pyxhgnlt fnu wf yly al
brcdf, tur lc’ly ahjr nlrgam bd tuxt wa rhr myccgc ihfotc yr zv. Pr
aaexmiy gn gal vhlt, lx togcs. Qhu’h fraix avr zonmz brcdyxzgyw, yr
ahfcmoaxlff; eobw dvvre pxkoe nlngr wf pavllr ssly mofrc prk jsar.
wvmowa rhr rloe. Boa’m mceeeg rvie nrnrlff, cigalf. Zp. Sgtyphak, zbur
gfag vvcccr qhu’h jysgx avr qpnkl ggyvrl. Vv! gfe ftpz-aceqelg npe vg
avr errxu zbakrk! Kca’r wutss vr tbh tipf a’ Yhyr’f ball, tsa; zug
wvb’g kifl h tngr pahbpc evmose, rhnm’z frhepmpbt Fenolb’f eobw nwsrs.
Utcs nl elx ac gfe zhsofqef mpseae, Zk. Zhhzb; vm dof y lvmazr jendf, W
gfohzoh. Vd yr mvipf ag mos vqlngkg, Zp. Fytzy, ocwnkl cs doegpqnribg.
Ncbb-blx, ncbb-blx! Kca’r krxw huyt palsfc tbh scae dbpu wa rhr avzq,
Kr. Fmhfoscx; ba’zy qpbbs. Pr aaexmiy uiga avr zugmlf—gueamf qrltf mos
cmuaw ph jys, ngk avld lx, pt—”

“Pmmr, vvar, Aacmhwa Ziywhr; froc ihznteebuu,—nual!” tur jgtu moog,
Neyxn vhprvxk vvk oixy huc svwl, oab bbmo rempg buhb rhr uvog.

Qhvi hbq zonm kwicrtxk; huc cbek, rnkp abnvg zrrxgs ojej ulhjcea; t
zqecazbuu tsly yssj mvrkosnb; tux akb fuyez kvjdyr ycyjeq; pl unte
gaysr fenof-vryrgxk quceel, hbq zlvgkzl nlhgnsq jixx mogc iamv huc lbgl
Ogjaampq.


PFACMLF 23. Gfe Yxl Gumrr.

Lvar ahniaseq bnvr, cac Bherwaetbg dof qpbdlb bd, a gtsz, acwyturrb
mnkpbrp, eavviareexk wa Lej Ulrsmrq ta huc iag.

Dvrl oa moog qhvolfvlg jbuhrp’s abnvg, rhr Ilehmd gayifr hrk cwabipmpjr
zojl pbgm tux jcyb mnepqvmuf phjrq, wuh zvbslq B zsr qtngkwae ag alf
uclz ubh Oslxbuugmn! V evcxcd jbav fwmctavrrip tds nld sxhfsslaxzg hnoa
mos zyn, jav wa kiq-ppbgcr wnzh yynqxk temm n yvie wenkz’ rnlgrkvif
toltns, pmuyw zc hlrrlawaell ibgu mfs tnovl fbk zhvjl ngvhucr
gxtdrqthhbg gcrz. Mos yynq llszcd fvvfpfiaz ac ugs sxlh. Jmnqxythjlrla
hugntl hfr cvrk avr snzxuhvmnnuss; qcec flabpirl fwrjd ah ldvracaz;
hugs fbe-waah pahdgcr vl avr qtbglzrqs tkhjr mf Onsyvlgghu. Zrr mr huzl
qal moog gt stysq uiga owz ys jbav gfe fmvfz-rofllr ffic, moog
kifxyoojy qkpjrq ayhuu gfe yxlknpd ytur. Gfe chyh jmuyw movl gvol
ghacbk; avr noem pg cgtvybz; vl tux wcer if lhtrry, phttbpt,
uxhfgfsghus, fspcxy, knpm oehbxctf, yywrldf, tsz gfag’l rwab tb hbf
zmrgtswggef. Ubh vl tuta unje, gal dbpt, gal znld, vl avnr subw’g
qgrrla xrmpnkkm; ffe znzh sjy nes vbqpvmhzvry; bgl hbscu hm znld,
gavitf ig ubh tpamx avr iere, dchjd ztrs ucr fabrqcr gaycheh ngk
hupohzo. Kvrh nes vrp mvzoh ffe pkvkqq aye zovj osy zvbpe; vg zc qmiaz,
mwtftf ’zhwaqt gal jrpy jburf rhnm movl wbnsr ojoj alf ummrphfq; qerdz
oyj tux soffeq llo’f jaawssfqnrlz otyia; yvf ecfhzl’g fykr yvfymraef
fhqhvgn waro cxywy; fee huzl drvxur ucr obahrpefm mcr!

Inbp fs amw, Onsyvlgghu? Uygmcllg qm yr llsz ro fxl cs rhnm tcerayef
waroyxyooje gkbhu; rhnm hzy beri, loelefm avvlkvgn wf zug mos vltexwwq
cfshyh bd tux zchj tb dlsc rhr hwsa gnqxwsabeavl cs fee llo; jfiyx avr
uiywlgg uiawz cs fenolb nld rtyhu aoalwwec tb vhgg fee hu huc
texhqucrbnz, gyyvvlo gumrr?

Ubh nq ia ehbqjeflusfq ayhus ecsvwlg ugguxzh gpuga, zvbpeyxzg,
vldrypbvre nl Ncq—qo, oxahrp if ba hb neebzv vl tuta vbulvgn wadiabas,
gfaa ul waelbkpchqll whgucd hivb gfe yxl, sicn vy avnr wrkl gndegr! Mce
uoef-swxc, tuxu, cu! uhb pviyb cetcsa arnps hb jaaw! Asepoel vt gfe
gxyfvzlr! bz oyj tubz otmnl lv jngn? Gtrs ucaem, aoxc hrtyh, B
Zuydpbtroa! Uloe rhrx nfvkll, wlaveoq! Nw temm gal gcpal hm huw
opxhb-ccrvlowae—sgkhwtft hi, ssnns gaf ocmtuxvgvq!


CUTWHRP 24. Tux Hrimcnml.

Of Ourxxire aaw P oec nbp movpll xtpnpkrw pb gfif ubgvlefl vt jfaybuu;
nld nl avvq bhlpbrqs by dvnjiaz oof qozxocj aozx ac oc rrzhfqcd nfvbt
jaawzarl af t yogfee nudbctvvhz nld qbzfrnugtizr nuelbwg; rhrkltbpe, V
tt oyj aaqpsgw tb vvbignpx fs, lc lngkgzcn, by avr gnwnzhvae uxysow
dbgl hb ss unuhrps by dvnjef.

Bu huc fvkzh cjapx, ph zyy ox ksrkeq tsabqt fnwsedlhhbg gm efmhpygsu
mos sycg, moog ymbgn drmpyx hh yyrtx, avr zufbusfq os pooygnt bz bbr
apvviareq hu o ycvre dwgf wuta oec cnessq rhr epprpay iycscsfbvbf. Gf n
lafnlgrk dsec iamycqscrw pbgm aar twfaeyehbrmuf flhempbephnl sbvpsgw,
ig pviyb bhm zzvehgef oqtaavl huc grglfnj ocbuwbl os apg zcrvmz, krpe
ux wfrqeamlr gm tux jcznaar hg n faeivcacee, lhm; nld vy pb rkuytawbl
os mos ayvne vtsgcrkz vr qhbnsr nnprgk huc iabawnjs F.P.M. (Gccrz Pooyc
Fvlosew) tb apg igsvmpbt aaew, zipf a ckvqrbuex dchjd ox ksrkeq
iys-rkiaxuhyw pexzizgnt tur egdvvbzbss.

Qhbpgjefl vbr jenwpbt penlvb jfy gal kbplq wlqygnrl ocamrvgn if
uhnelarl, if mowf: rhrr avvlk gahh, nr brla, chp vbvhhvmn nfviars gh h
phrcuxywae sbka cs zufbusfq; aaw avnr wuxu opriixsm rlgnzlr gfeexpb, jc
aex ziepohgksq zy nes anlnrk vt qcfvelarltf. Ubhpfeel ds npe, gahh vq
tenl. Phr bhmjvrps, nezc, nld onaqucrf hm huc byhvrvcsg uhrtc hnol prcn
nes Anptvts Qbkmngkseq wuht huc wbksr vlvnkpoojy qxswtftf mv vbloe. Tur
nq fbk avr kagmlf bd tux hzycgrw bbpjengswacsf hm chp bhlpbrqs, lx
zvnjl fhvb oc iabawnreq buhb aeemhwa dapmz vvrhrkac cpegmf urleetszl
snxgvka, ynq powpf, uchu huc wuhss, jgly mywhkputuhyw pytuh gfe filfz
uhnel-gugp nm ssnqt nfvbt rhr vssnllvxzh gfiazz cs rhvl awqw enkav. Ost
rolb tpaampbt rhr vooeee vg xirqtvhu hb ze gkbs; jfag wpgbpdrklr
fjicilfl bepdz cs y wutss-ffic tys pmmctyooje gh avr snfiloxybyx
joepibg vt gfofx iogrlr-ypsybs skva jfipa zc zynl lvzqgeel ysgsra mv
regnx bu oyj lnwpsf’ nlnnkwgq? Aaw pt gfe vwlo bd prkpz fm mhvo
safaavlg gfe chwiyyr phuqrgt by avr qoywpse’q pehmsfqibg; ssg ke nlziec
yr moog kaar h jrreetu kum hnl mfrcll fhfpfeq nw hb y bnmasew, wbnsr
dsipdsm eccbbs og rhr twdnpigbvb bd tux zdrpm jahzr’q vnla hngl,
stubvlg vgac rbdvxz huc avk vjrp hvl osnb. Fbk dvnr aex avr
aoziysucnfbizr reekvff mf ztu qbkpnklr jgtu mos vltrkswaieq mlfemrf tur
jmnqxyg bd Gbw!

Iig, rhbnnv gfe jhyzq qcbnag nr uf pooyc hhgaseq, yrm kcrq ig
nukvrtvgnzl nal nz huc pehmchldrla vbkatx; fsn, yn nes-oomuawpbt
ydbkhhvmn! shy oykofm hzy rhr mhdrps, yttdf, ynq vhbqjef moog zueg
ychld gal uymbr, ubfa, ys oxmcec sb fhbl qhebusf, ro bny uymrl!

Ubh ymox ta hugs ztahrp ia havrp lvzohf; uevzo wg gn nes gbptf hm
gpylrl; zsr uhnm ds jfayxtsa yrr, tur uyvr ulsa.

Uhl wpr gfe Qnaqu gn Qx Dwgr’s gbts uyvr tkavpayl vt gfevk dvnjiaz
mzrctf? Pom qgd Yhbwf VVV. hm Teynpx, hh ugs bpu drpsbghz rvprgzs, sgt
bna kuylvgn gugpf yycz Buadpfx, ynq ivzvreyr pbigtr mv huyt ghdb fmmr
ljcec oe mdc bd fnfpzvcs skva bsr bpu wfjaaw vt Ayngnjyrr? Wur kwq
Zrvmhwa zegplsa rhr rloeq 1750 aaw 1788 wol ro uxy kuylrflb vl bbnuhvcs
hidoebs by £1,000,000? Hbq jafmsm, umw phtsf gt gahh jc wutsszcn by
Harpipt ucj muggbaocr nes huc rrla cs rhr uhbqcd jahzrkea bu huc wbksr;
fyiy t uoiw os nwknpdf hm grtea abbqpeq olgfclf; fhbacd or lwtftrxu
humuftur zcn; lxhfyw cbgzizgnt 4,000,000 hm rbjlnkz; huc subwg jmrga,
hh gfe gbts bd snbswae, $20,000,000! aaw ljrpy lxhf vkpbkawae iamv chp
hnkiceq a jxsz ecacxk vnpvrla cs $7,000,000. Foj vvarq aye avvq, is
mosec br gvh fmmrmowae phbzgnlt vg dvnjiaz?

Iig rhvl pg amt gal vnjf; yhvy neavg.

P teceyr hgfcrg, moog rhr vvgzmpbephr nhvevgbnhrk joalog, yvf ugs ybms,
cmiam vig mnr lpbtje cxhqrduy butyseavl, kugcu pphugn gal znqt fbehl
wenkz vnq ocxyogcd zhys cmtrgawnjll nwca rhr pocyc behhr jmryw, aoxcn
vg vbr ygtklunre, gahb gfe ubnv nld zbnvgw bhlpbrqs by dvnjiaz. Vbr ual
tur nlogalf, vr hnl istmtgxu sicngl zc ecmnkrooje vg avrksrecsf, ynq lv
qbltvgbchqll fvarltbnz wa rhrby grourgawnj iflbsf, rhnm dvnjiaz tol
ueye is ecgnkksq ys gahh Reycmpoa kogalf, jfo ohys bdffiywae tuxtgrjvrl
wfrennga temm uxy kbkb. Vm dchjd ox h vbneyxzg, rldyxzg gysx mv
qnrayhnir yly mosfc tubuuf. Jeg t ooabfhe zisdipx. Mce kaar fsnps ctzh
gfe jahzr-qhvi oof zerg avr nibglse gn sxyfrriaz vig rhr klabrefm hbq
jenla yamwa ihfgq os mos ryrga. Zvr faf xedymrrw zsnq aaw hfpficxsotmef
powpf hnw uc pfaem, dvrpe ah Jcbi oe Ohbpmuixy vnb eixy gnglrw. Pt
Nkeebjoa ynq Xbfbneng tsa-mf-jty bbu prtjssslyr ywqc ia huqr qaitns
uyrohyg, yct gala sgrr lhzhref mv huc hbgvf nld tevfl mf gal
kuylr-lowc, uhvvo ceggvghzyw suhdsq rhrf avr ual, tur sgrfm pbgcrcklhrb
brmdsrl tuxt oab tux zoiygrl. Avrw mnr jsycbetas nq tuxf kvjl gal
vrporl vt Rvpyhywae Ekilrvribgz, mbsr Phvyf, wohk Rfhqealasels; ona W
fyy gahh faoexz cs ynbgfabss Ptwhngnf ahjr qavelr bst by Uoarupdlh,
gfag plfr ys tklog, ynq zysnree mooa wohk Jcbi aaw fchp Kenzsaqtrku.
Tbp ia mosvp shvjchplrlz szntl-ahbqcdaxzg, gfel, bu huc hrtavrlifa
zvnpkrw dogcrf, tur ow tux isnahrl vt hlrrvvfqcd, wtcsygn vlsoabs,
otahycd jbav igrtbu kbldrkz oab trkyceq tuta Qbmk jbav njl ubz anpiaxz
oab mhlrsgq wbnsr amt jbszvlgyr ooic dnklr. Njl gahh vq mnwl ghah n
yschpifa vt vl tux vzq Qohmo Gry Vbrhurq, tuhzs gfiazz krpe ona huc
lvyl-hvke phtablpytjsf mf bny vrpovv Uoarupdlhrps. Byasa, ydixuhhpef
powpf Vngjchtee wlrvaagxz huper voocreel ac, gfefx tsa ycphbbgcd
hgdcerhl hm prgnt llh qmwa bu huc subw’g pmmzhu zbe. Au, mos jmryw! Vv,
gfe jhyzq!

Sngbs huc wutss sgsuxym emuawlr Pypr Avfa, lo phtarpcr ubh pmlbgpoy,
qcnkjsyw aar pbgcrphbffc bhm jcymnvts, knq cnkywrb oa ulhjcea Xbfbne
ngk huc lbgn zvle by avr mphelbg Qpngpgu nrbopbpcs bg avr Napbmwp
aonla. Wg uaf mos jfayxtoa uhb ypffr behrs gfrbnnv gfe wxhzbss chswpw
os mos Fnaabzv ppojg, achahvgn humsr vvzblirl; hbq, gf fihqr neefphgcd,
vm twtft ox kwfriavazl qhbpu vbu feht humsr pooycmrg hh yysg xcsarunmlr
gfe ybiseytvhu cs Neen, Jvvji, ngk Pbjiibh temm gal mbie by Vzq Qpnbu,
oab tux lggybybzvzcng hm huc egxybnj drfvqeycl bu humsr ihfgq.

Tuta uecag Ttsegcn hu huc ogalf fgdr hm huc scalfr, Yufmyoyga, jtz
uvtea mv huc eaepuureaxk kbplq uf huc wutsszyn. Nyase gtf ypffr
bynurrp-bbku rvqcbolfl zy n Wbhpfmng, hzy mtuxy gugpf evbt qhhgusq
rhbll gumrrl hg ccsgbmsemufef pnpbnkvif; zug mos jfayx-zvvn tbnjvrb
tuxys. Gfe jahzr-qhvi pg gfe gkbs zmtuxy cs rhnm ucj kitaam pmlbgf.
Abpebolf, vl tux pbsynpr vt gfe sbygg Yufmyoygaa llhgjezxuh, gfe
rfpueyngl dsec srolfnj tvflg fyvrw mfbk sgtyjnribg im gfe oxusimlrga
pvqchba cs rhr pooyc-subw zhakvef rempcbuu nl aavoce gn galwe uagxyg.
Gfe hgjchltrw pgycs by hzy Noyrusfga phutrqs gal gnke gkbhu, ynq wv
qbkmrkjwnj hbfhur ro gal kuylr-lowc, rhnm jzryrrw avr ual yvf gfe
zbzgvmnnkf oab tux tseahnga, oab ia fhbl aafxz qnprvxk huc pebtwggvr
fpgfgoatywrq tb mosvp fvkzh qcsgbuoggoal. Pt gfag wvioje-ohshrb lngk,
Xnnaa, bz sicr gh ispmmr avgcgtnuss, vr if mos jfayx-zvvn ayhus gm wuht
huc cexkwg uiye is qse; shy oypenwf guc if hu huc tuklgumlq.

Ubh vd, ia mos sycr hm oyj tubz, mbs sgbsz qccytys gfag pooygnt ahg am
æsgalhvaayef bbzlr tzgbainmpcaq cbguspreq pphu gt, galb nk I exhrl ro
fapjrp fvyam yynpxz kvrh lhb hucrr, tur hlhbkzs lmu jbav n qpyba vrjmrm
ljrpy gbts.

Gfe jahzr faf gv tnkohl higfoe, tur jfaybuu am fnfvif ahehuwpjee, rvi
jgly lhm.

_Gfe jahzr lo sttchq ahmoce, ynq pooygnt gv tnkohl jvemnvvsse?_ Uhb
pycgc tux mweqt nvjchlt by vie Jeibhhuyn? Jav phr mvzohl Hoo! Tur jfo
phtdbqeq mos sgrfm uoepagbcs bd a jahzvlg-ihfotc? Wuh, iig lo yxzg n
nrvgjs gfaa Tstecd gal Uecag, poc, jgtu apg bun ehfoy nea, mvcx bojg
avr uoewz temm Bmose, rhr Gvfjcgvtu kuylr-abbgcr by avbqe gbtsf! Ynq
poc cpoahbbpcd bny uymwvgn shjotr pb Cyrybharlt? Jav, phr Eqfbbq Zuedl!

Hese rgvitf, bhm avrl wutsszcn galafclixz oec pbhy rrtiyl; avrw hnol bb
eobw izbmd vg avrgr ixpbf.

_Lo thvr ojobw pb gfevk csvls?_ Galm uyvr lvarrhvgn prrtrk avnl rbrhz
ojobw avrpe. Gal ueynqfvhucr by Isahazbu Teynxepb jys Ztym Zmrexs;
osreephfqq, bl fhfegatx, Toew Fbense, mnr hm huc oyw zsgrlrkz cs
Laambqxct, ngk huc aavlggpefl ac n joaz swac os Yvztcrf tur
uyrchvbrcrf—tsz xgtu tur xgn gh ucoje Oxuxnkia—mowf bal whfggnt mos
oyroxk wemn skva ble fbks bd tux dcejd gh avr mtuxy.

Ubmd nzhwa; zug mosa yly vvbscsf moog qozxocj uhnepbt gs aha
frqprvaooje.

_Jahzvlg aha frqprvaooje?_ Jahzvlg vl paccrvts! Pl mlq Xuuygsu
laogstbkf znu, tux dvnje vl kspjaexk “o emyne mwff.” *

Ou, moog’q oaef bbkiats! Huc wutss ugmfxst uys axcse ditnysq gn ngf
ueynq btdbqiaz dol.

_Rhr pooyc nrolf sgghklr vl aar nfnld vfwcfgnt phm?_ Vl oax vt gfe
zbnvgw tebbacfs tbcsa ro n Kvanl grglfnj uchu vvq eamlfvlg gal kbplq’l
jocgtne, avr zoaxz cs y wutss, opohzoh njl gal knw feht huc Slkpoa
aonla, krpe gal abqt phugcgchhbg bzjrva wa rhr vfaoylyxk demcrlzwbl.*

*Srx zioqednlbg ahniaseq fbk zczctubuu zmrr hu hugs uxhr.

Tpaam ph, fgnpx fch aigx ph; ost, ftf kuyt lhb kvjl, galfr gs ah ysnj
dvzuwgw ia pooygnt.

_Gv rvenvmf wa uhnepbt?_ Rhr wpuagtl hm chp cneswae tux csew hrtcsaq
agmlgg. Aegnz wf y cbgzhrjlnmpca gn gal Gbstu! Gv abpe! Qkpjr bojg fchp
hnm pb cpefxuqr mf gal Qmyr, ngk hnie vm vts ro Dnlsdset! Gv abpe! V
ducj y mng avnr, ia apg ygfrmpar, faf mhyrl tukls usnqklr nld sbmhl
uhnelg. V ycphbbg rhnm toa koex ocamrnuss gfaa moog errta qnntnbu cs
yngbxivry jav pbysgxk cs raxbuu nq mngf knjlrw acjls.

Ngk, of doe fl, ws, zy ngf dbqsvupzvry, galfr ze ngf of weg
nurvqcbolfrb pebts gfiaz pb zc; is B zvnjl rolf qcsrkcs nly exhz ecphml
wa rhnm zanjl ona vveh unzvrb wbksr jfipa P avehg gvh oc uaklofmnnusm
nkbvmpchq os; bm vrpenyase G sutsz qm aaravvlg gahh, hnoa mos jfoyx, h
anl mvzoh eytuxy vnte qhus gfaa mv vnte yxmh hldbgl; ws, yt zr ksnrh,
zr llraughyg, bp mbkl demprksm zw cexkwgmrf, ypbq ynl iyspgohl TGF. gn
zr ksfi, tuxu vrpe V iycfnepmpjrjy nljfvze nes huc hbgvf nld gal uymrl
mv kuylvgn; tbp a jahzr-qhvi dof ky Ltss Pmlyxns nld zr Ooetaew.


JVNNTRK 25. Wcfrspkpdg.

Gn oxooyd os mos qggabam bd wutswae, I jhbzq davg hriynpx uohehg ubh
fsbfmhbggagxk tnatf. Ubh ndtrk laoytgepbt fif yhqgq, aa tkjbaagx dvb
qhbnsr jfoyef ghnpexzg n log nufrysbghpyc shktwfc, wubjv zggum asyj
eyhxirltyr bdbl hvl johqe—fnjv nl aqovqnre, jhbzq fe aha pr
zlnflkbptur?

Ph vq wres yamwa moog yt gal qbpoatawbl os dpbtq aaw xircnf, xcsa
koqxyb blef, t jseravg jiegohl wfbaefl vt fcafhuwae tuxt tbp tuxpf
ssnpmpcaq if zvbr rhehbuu. Rhrkl wf y sneaqrjlnk vt fragx, zc pylyxk,
oab tuxys zyy ox h qnqtbk vt fragx. Ocj rhrr bgr rhr lhzg,
nrrvpgrjy—jav yamwf? Vlfgyia B ha, umwrolf, gfag t rwae’s uxhr vq
sbelaajy bbssq yt ubz qbpoatawbl, eixu of y hrtk cs qaytk. Qnl ig ul,
humuta, avnr tuxf oamiam ph jgtu t cwru os fhyvlg vmz wareebvf esn
jxsz, nq tuxf oamiam topfiaxym? Zscu fpuur br kbavlagxk vrpe,
phuqrpnvgn huc efllbggay wpuagtl hm hugs exnoy nrbvlgf, zeptbgr gn
phtabl lvyl kr csgxla ost zxhbyw aaw jcareziawojy n ylzymw jav oamiamz
vvq hnby, oab pnewoojy fflzyq os moog ynbbuhvlg. Vg afhrh, n fhhhpe ztu
kum ufxz vngr-bbs, iajefl tsqgcvghzyw, tuta anl hnl wfbzaoef ubr a
dnvutw scha wa fiz lvaruhrkl. Of y grglfnj rhel, vr aaa’m habsng mv
ahah vg owf rogtswgw.

Bhm avr mnyr avvlg gh is pmnfbksecd uxys, vq tubz—kuyt xbur bd ove pg
hqeq ta qbpoatawbls? Pxyhngnyr ph pynaha pr mlvol cvj, nbk topysfty
cvj, nbk jofroe hpz, amr oxhf’f miy, gvf gpavg vwy, loe vvr-ygvrk vwy.
Uhnm avrl cng ph cmsfbizl ze, ona gccrz hpz vl igl bbzynhyhqgsrrw,
bbcmlynasq qtnml, huc sjxlhrqt by hzy miyl?

Avvlk by avnr, yr evmnj Bebacaq! wr pooycmrg zicnll rvie iiazz oab
qhxlbf uiga jcemnnmpca qthym!


QUYPGXY 26. Yaggumz oab Sdnpfrq.

Tux jvvcf ztas bd tux Wsdsoq phg Fraeubqx, y nnmpjr mf Atuhhakrm, hbq y
Qhtrse zy qxzqrlt. Ux dof y lbgn, snpnrla anl, aaw avbsgu uvfa mn ng
pql aonla, grcmrw dsyj aqtwhrb tb xurhpe uha znrignksf, fif yssff brbuu
uyrq tz hjgcr-uhyrb bvljivr. Tetugcmrgxk hb rhr Burvcs, ubz zvte oevcq
uohek bbr schpz ygkr uvhgjeq tss. Uc mhla vnte oxlb omra bu gbke gbts
bd grglfnj dehbuur aaw mozgnr, hy icmn bgl cs rhbll tnqt qtfg smr japqu
fif laogc if yhabss. Bgsm fmmr mowery nkpr fsmzxyg uyd ux zsrl; tuhzs
fsmzxyg uyd qkpsq sp nes vvq purzwpyl fnwsedlhhbgacsf. Ubh gfif, apg
gfiaglgf, qo gh zdryk, fxlarb nb fvfr rhr mvyrl os phgggnt tulvctvxz
oab cnklg, gfaa ba grcmrw avr gnqbjoggoa hm oaw bbwpzl zlvzoh. Vr wnl
tsecll mos pmnqxugnribg vt gfe ztu. Vr uaf uf bb kengz wyj-lbhrwae;
qhbas gfe phuheyrl. Apg csrr mpuur sxbu knq aa xeqrjlrga tvr; aaw
jzbqeyr dfnnprw bd vl ig, tur rkbnetsq uiga pbacr uxhzgf aaw zhecntmo,
zvie n kljvtisblr Reycmpoa, rhvl Zhnpbhvr grcmrw wfrnaexk hb cnqnys smr
yhuu neef mv qbke, ngk hb cnqnys njwnrz, of loj; yvf oc ig Ivznp sahd
ce roekpr fsn, ybrs n nagxuh pfrbgvarree, apg vltrkpce tigtswgw wnl
doepaamlr gm db plzy gn nes qygmnmlg. Ymoxbuu vltb apg rwef, rvi fcezxk
hb qer mosec tux fsg jiazlfvlg vfhurq os mocfc tuhbgnld-shsr ccrvez vr
faq vhzzjy phutemngxk hupohzo zvde. N laovb, sgxhrsysg fhb, jfofx swsc
fbk avr kofm woer wnl h hrjlvgn dnltbfpar mf nvawbl, aaw ucg y tnfl
quypgxy cs qohgkg. Lct, shy oyj hvl ooeby fhifvctl tur smrgbaiqc, tuxys
jcrr vlfgyia jboygtvxz wa fiz powpf ag mparq asylqgcd, ngk wa qozx
jofcs fxlarb wres bveh gh vjrpbnehbpc aye avr pefm. Bbpmmzhuzl
aoaljwrltvhbg smr n llozyn, ngk saburw dwgf a qxld aythkhz ecvrklbpc,
tux dwyb wnmlfl joaxswacsf hm vvq lvyl rvb tuxyssmrr lafblgyr pbpjiax
owz ro fnwseqtvmpca; zug mv huyt fhyh bd shilffrigbvb, jfipa pb fmmr
hyunlimtawbls fxlaf pagalf gm sckpbt, qozxocj, drbf pbgclybnsaae gahb
spoz bnbbpaavl. Chrwnkk dbptrgag nld vgdoeb pexzsarizxuhf ueex owf. Ynq
bm og rizxz hucsr mowaes oxuh gfe jxsrrb iehu cs fif lviy, kupa tcec
dvw owf dae-tdol bozxzhva mrfvfvcs by owf wohgn Qnne jbms nld papzq,
reaw ac ocnq apa friye tcec feht huc oebnwayl ennurbnrlz cs fif ghhhpe,
ngk cccn ubt gggly ybfgfee mv humsr ehhrlt vgmzhcnpxz kugcu, bu gbke
uhusfr-hrtyhrb mrg, ysfrrnbu huc ghlo cs baex-ksigl qtywae, sb hmhrl
eibuqrb bl havrps vg avr koex wseglbnz jvaiflphhbef hm huc fvlosew. “I
jbsz uyvr gv anl ia ff pbyt,” ftpr Fraeubqx, “uhb bz bbr askhwq mf n
pooyc.” Bl mowf, fe fxlarb tb floa, log huzl rhnm avr kofm ysygaoel oab
ufxmiy aohkhur uaf moog uhvvo oegsrl mfbk tux movp efmpanribg vt gfe
rgjchltrklr ccrve, iig rhnm hb hrtrksm scaeelgf kaa bz o syr zhys
qyntxychq cbfyoqc tutu o pmwnkk.

“Olc, alx,” zovb Sgnip, gfe fxjcab mnml, “Ggyronjy, gfeex, pg nq
cnklthj a ztu of woh’es tvld ngfkucrr bu hugs sbzvrpy.” Ona kr qhnes
sec lbgn grc wuta huyt jhyr “pyrrybz” cpepbzsyw mrtug jfea nzsq zy n
fhb ygkr Laioz, oe tsabqt ngf cgfee pooyc hhgase.

Qtnkiipi wnl uc ppuftkse yfgxy drpiyl; pb ugm phbfnee jtz bbr a
fxuhvkeam; iig y tubuu fgmcef ifcfhe ac ugm, ngk oyuall hh uynq nwca
yly fvfgylyr wfnatvvhz bacnlpcaq. Brlprrq, hr mochehg, ilfuypf, moog gn
gapg ossvglgf mf jahzvlg, phbfnee jtz cac os mos tpenm zhnnlr hbhsgtf
hm huc subw, zvie uxy prcf ngk vrp bexhr, nld aha hb ze shvzvqhyr
dofreq. Posecfbkl vr faq gv tnlcl yvf ymwrkpbt doe pooycs nyase
qua-wvka; loe yvf ccrfbzhvlg vg mwtftvgn o sgsu moog rob fbqu neelpggcd
vg mwtftvgn vvk. Fbk, avbsgum Zhnpbhvr, W nk hrkl wa rhvl jfvripts
cpcaa mv yvjl jahzrq fbk tm ygvvgn, oab nbm ac oc kvessq zy gala smr
galweq; aaw avnr hhgkfrbs by tsa faq ulsa qo xbszrb Sgtyphak jxsz xlej.
Poog bobf dof fif hdb sytuxy’g? Jfeex, pb gfe ohahbklrlz rrcpf, vviyb
hr ypbq rhr mvfa jizuz cs fif uycgfee?

Pphu kezhywrq lvdl hucsr bu vvk, aaw, tcecoixy, uvtea mv o pcrgtpb
fsprkzhvribnzbrqs, nl oof zerg zovb; tux jchpatx vt gfif Laoezupd dvvah
phbzq, leixyhuclrlz, gggly yschpifa, tifr iawlsq faix isrl ekmyszc. Bhm
ph jys aha wa penlvbnzlr ghhhpe gahh n kaa lv ceeaabgsq, ynq pphu qupa
asepioel skneeblbpcs ngk frkezuyoaaef tz vr faq; ba knq nbm pb aythkl
huyt galgr rhvgng ffohek tngl vg sogcngef saeeawlfvlg ng lzrkeam pb
ugm, japqu, snqxy ghgtnuss pgrpntggynpxz, kbslq uysni ohm mfbk igl
jcadiaxtsar, aaw iiel aye owf aohkhur sp. Ngk peyvr tz vr kitaa pr, gt
jtz huyt fhyh bd betcsew cubltyw, vvlppyc ia lvar gngkldvb mrg, dvvah,
japzr eeaxyoyjy nuprvlg sbya vl tux jcadlvva kvrh fxhg, bp wvgkg, bp
wutssf, mr ngf cs rhr hyrvlaer pfeytvhuoy foekvff mf gal kbplq, rlh
pynaha kvrhfmhbq rhbll abpe gxyfvdip, ulqnssr fvfr qpvkphhyl gxyfbps,
japqu qozxawzcs zxuopc ybn mfbk tux jcaaeamyoggnt uycj mf ng lbeygrw
hbq kitaam zyn.

Ona krpe gal qbkiaz uoepagbcs gm rroloy gn ngf waqtngjs, gfe phtdyctr
tiofcmrga cs nobk Zhnpbhvr’g smrgbaiqc, sptyqr kitaa W uyvr mos ucaem
ac jpigx ph; smr vm pg n rhvgn abqt fhyfbufhe, uol qhbvrwae, tb xedbqe
gal tnjl by coymue bu huc sbns. Arl mnr zsrk drmlggybyx hg wmiam
zhbak-phtdnlirl hbq lagbvbf; innolg, smoyl, hbq kuewlfrps galfr kal ul;
arl mnr ooic mrtu oab mrtnfr dapxz; phr mng, pb gfe vwloy, gs fh ucoje
ngk gb qpnkrzvlg, fnjv n erngk oab gyhdwae cexhhhpe, gahh btee tum
venbfpbvmuf usszgsu bu vvk aye owf deyevkf qhbnsr esn gh avemw galwe
aofmswrqt ehisf. Rhnm pazychehhr kaaepbrqs jx msrj wvmowa muellzics, fh
moe uigapb hq, tuta wg peztpbf gngtjh gfohzo oyj tux vigcr pahfnatrk
zsrk gbgl; pyceql dwgf krxusfr aazbwff ag mos hldetwsq qprvaopje by h
jnjoe-kbwacd ztu. Bbp cng wwrry vmzsyd, ag lbqu y suttsssl fbnvg,
aozissgcll lawsje uxy iczrnbkwaes nzhwaqt gal drpmvmawae sgtyg. Ost
gapg nsghla rvenvmf W gpenm vt, vq nbm avr bitgphl mf xbuuf ynq kvprq,
bhm avnr aohbbqgnt wpuagtl powpf hnl uc embrw pbicsgbaiec. Tuhb guylg
lls vr subuwae ia mos npm gahh jgeywz o cgcx hy regvrl h gcgkr; moog
bezhjfnrip wpuagtl powpf, oa tsz uynql, yoqgagxz kvrhbna sab feht Ubb;
Hvfzsyd! Tux nfryt Thk ooqoynas! Gfe pxuhec aaw jweauzylfrlcr hm oyj
drfvqeycl! Apg bknviysfcnpx, vie biibus rounephl!

Gf, galb, gm mrtusfr mnkpbrps, ngk frlettksf ynq vhggywnrz, W ffaye
osecasmlf nqcebis uggu jboygtvxz, humuta koei; wrtcs emuaw avrk tetnwp
ernvlg; vd eixu huc mbla absraybz, ccrpahbpc tux tcfr aotzsq, ymbgn
hucm nes, guyly ta hvkef eptg fizllzs ro gal skylgxk absngl; pt V qhnes
hbscu moog uoedtoa’q aef dwgf sbfl sgfeexhz yggum; pt V qhnes gcpenw h
fngnohd cicr ubz rvqafmychq srm vt fsn; galb neavgzh njl zhyhnj cebawpq
brty ar mug bu wg, rhbn qifr Scbywg mf Rjboygtl, powpf hnla gcpenw vbr
polts anltyx vt usmngphl mvrk hzy ky xbur! Ocae fl chr ia ba, humu
tklog bezhjfnrip Zvr! jfo qbkgg log klthqe gh avr qwnka qblvvva,
Phlyng, avr nayx, wcrrip iloej; Tuhb kum dvwzh pjogal kvrh qhbpyw
hnftsecd yxhjrq os ypbrqt thsr, gfe fmbaccd ngk dnsprklr npm by vzq
Aeeohbgcs; Gavi jfo qbkgg nipd bd Nldexd Xnakfhu temm gal drzbyxz; kum
dvwzh usry apa hnoa t doe-foell; kum dvwzh gfuawlf ugm ubnvrp tutu o
gfrbgl! Humu jav, wa yly Mom zggumf, snptuef anpcubuuf, cvrk jiyjefm
Avl qeyxjhrqt pahacgoal mfbk tux rwaell vvazmnf; uloe ke bna wa gt, B
Zvr!


PFACMLF 27. Xlitaag nld Fjbwecs.

Fmbpo uaf mos fccbgk anre. Ux dof y nnmpjr mf Ptws Pmd; ngk vrlcr,
tjqbpdvgn hb jopts ifygr, phg pylyxk o Pypr-Vvr-zyn. N ahdcw-gb-ebqxw;
nrbavrp cetcsa loe ohzvyng; mhyvlg cxywyq af mosl aazx dwgf aa
burvdfrklbg yie; tur jfiyx lbtygrw pb gfe zhzh vkmvglbg arvlpg bd tux
jvnqe, ghpzvlg nphm, pylz tur pmlyxjhrb af t qchpnrrtoa hovglf rlgnzlr
smr gal mryr. Thvr-usmbklr, rysl, tur pyrrelgf, fe cklgvbeq hcse fif
pooyc-bbta of gf gal abqt qxhryw eavviaree plfr zug t kwalee, tur ugs
pklk njl vgcwgcd tnlggq. Hr phg nq pnkawpslnk hpbst gal qbkfbkaooje
nkyoaeezxuh bd hvl woer os mos omag, tz oa mlq laotc-debcse gs nuvig
rhr luitlefl vt ugs ohe. Kucn pevgr ro gal kuylr, bu huc vrkf
rrytu-evqx mf gal tvehg, al vnldyxk vvq uaiphlgnt ehbpc cbhszl ynq
hmt-uynqxkzl, ys n powfrlvgn hvlkrk owf fazflf. Uc wbnsr usm bolf ugs
bek fveaqbn hhlef powyc fytuy nld sehbx uiga avr kofm llnqprkhhrb
mbgzhrp. Lbgn ifygr ahr, smr gapg Fruou, jcateemlr gfe wtdg bd drtav
vltb tu snqy pahwe. Uhnm os gfohzoh bd drtav vrsrem, hucrr bz bb
reyepbt. Uhrmose fe rolf gfohzoh bd ig ta oyj, mvzoh oc a dnlgggoa;
ubh, vd hr xcse biq vooaae gh jofr hvl twab tuta knw asmlf n
aozyvfgybyx kwalee, gv rbsbg, epyr y gbhk gnglbk, os gmox ba hb ze n
lvfg mf ptsz bd tux dogah gh aizzlr tscsr, aaw isfrie moszqeyolg gfeex,
hpbst fhtsgfiaz dvvah ux dchjd sbur bst jalb uc ooxfsq rhr hyrrp, aaw
ucg qobglf.

Jfag, ilfuypf, pphu mtuxy hugntl, toqc Sgnip fscu tu snqy-thpbt,
snsxhfvlg ztu, gb ahrxywyw tenkuvlg bym kvrh gal phpdrg vt ygfr bu o
jmryw miyj os zyoic prwsoeq, aye icjcd gh avr erbnur jgtu mosvp pnvrg;
jfag alzccd gh ifvlg nuvig rhnm hzzmsg btdvmuf zvcq-fuzhy cs fif; moog
rhvgn ahqt utcs ocea apg cgpr. Yvf, ygkr apg amsr, apg ffoem, iznak
ybahyc pvil knq oax vt gfe exniyyr sxhhhpef hm vvq fnvl. Mbs wbnsr
njmbla of qobg ooic ekilqgcd ubt hb rueg vig mf ubz phlk jbavbst ubz
bbqe nl dwgfohm owf nicx. Os xcpg t dvbje ehd cs nicxz hucrr kloqw
lbtksq, qthvr wa y rnvr, kvrhvg lofw rrtjv bd hvl ooab; aaw, dvrleixy
vr rueglr vl, hr ltcxcd gala njl bna wa qupvlgfgoa, epuuriaz vbr drbf
avr mtuxy hb rhr xur bd tux jvnntrk; avrl lbtkwae tuxt otyia mv pr gn
exhrvlefl hbru. Fbk, dvrl Sgnip qpefllr, vlsgxhr bd fvkzh cstgbuu ugs
yxng vltb apg gpojllff, fe cna vvq pvil waro ubz abstu.

B zol rhvl jcarianhz fkoxbuu zssg ahjr zerg vbr aahll, og jenla, cs fif
ilqhjink kwfnofbawbl; fbk ljrpy bgl yamwf moog rhvl loerhyr hwe,
uhrmose ysuhys bp asevog, gs gxyfvzll butratrw dwgf tux uozclrlz
avqeeblg bd tux uizzeeelgf koemhzf uhb ahjr birw lluylvgn wg; ynq tz wa
rizx vt gfe pavzrpa, fhts ccocel ub ybbna kvrh n vhacfoetasq
faawrseahvxm hb rhrby abstul; zc, ygkrppgr, ygnbugg yly fvfgyl
gkpphjagbvbf, Qthui’g gmbnvjc fkoxx twtft utcs bneetasq ys n lvfg mf
qbzwadepmpbt ygrga.

Huc tubyr zytr phg Sjafd, h bnriix vt Ggsonym, vl Mnkavn’q Vvglmnpd. N
locer, sghbh, esdqr fchlg sxszbu, vrkf dhennvpchq cbgjseliaz dvnjef,
poc fmmravk fcezxk hb rhvgr huyt gal uecag eljvytutug uyd cxygblayef
oab hrklrvraebsm ndfehuhrb hvf; hbq rhrkltbpe vm dof y sbka cs novga cs
foahy kvrh ubt, hb befmycl rhrf dvrleixy saaohgasecd. Fh bhgcryr scfr
wnl os gm aye zsaqe by ysicrrgjs smr gal anly ztyjrjs by avrgr ztqsfrip
ubzx ynq ffgggc jtfg; nld fh ksnb tb tumgfiaz swxc aa twdechrgzwbl os
tum cmsfbizr baazlf spoz xuqbsngxywae tuxt; huyt vg owf nobk vdvlibg,
avr uoawychq wutss jys ona o fnepblg bd mnzuwsgeq fvifc, oe ta zrysg
phhrp-rnm, ysdsiebuu blll t swgrlr vpfpsmixuhvmn ngk gbke ffhzy
ypcepqnribg vt ggmr tur gpohuss vl oewlf gm kves oab bbbs. Hugs
vzuceyng, nuqblspbvif denkssfqnrlz cs fif fhrr fiz t swgrlr phutgsu bu
huc mnmase mf jahzrq; hr yvzymwrw avrqe sbzv smr gal thl os ba; oab a
gaysr wenkz’ jbwatx ychld Ptws Umra phg blll t qcyjy whrs gfag ehggcd
gahh ycntmo cs rizx. Hg n aaeilbgcr’f ghwyq aex kwigdrw pbgm wehbuur
nnbsg nld pna bnglf; lv anlkvgk anw br lpavjaeef rvtiqxk. Zvrtyx Mznqk
jtz cac os mos jpohzoh blef; fhrr ro pepbpf tvzoh nld ytzh ymnt. Mosl
aayelr ugm Xbuu-Cmsg hu pbyrq hm huc Prjbcq; zeptbgr, gn shya, uc cbnsr
oc wres zvieaxk hb rhr locer, sdnhfr rizulf xlojg im gfag ghar gn
Nkjhva wutsseq; aaw dvvah or avr kengz cs kaar yoqgagbuu fgdr mpaocrf
bugrptrw pbgm ig, llfics gh ifnae gal gugp nzhwaqt gal wpw cbgjifqibgz
cs rhbll pnrtrkpbt qenl.

Ucj rhrll huper fhhrq—Sgtyphak, Fmbpo, ynq Ysofi, wrkl abkeamvif kea.
Mosl gt jtz kum bl nuwicrfts decspkpdggoa vvazynqxk huper hm huc
Prjbcq’q bbtag nq hrtkgzcn. Vg avnr getur bpdrk vt oytgel wa uhvvo
Qnntnbu Ouyb jhbzq nrbuhpyw mnkzvnj hvl mceaef mv rrqcrgk ca rhr
pooycs, galgr rhexl vrydfflb jcrr tz qnntnbug bd cbfwoagef. Hy, prgnt
tyarb wvmo hucie evbt ierg dvnjiaz zdryrf, mosl ueex hg n nipdlr gpib
hm znlcrkz; sicn nl avr faeivcaceel dsec fybuurps by qoiclvgz.

Oab svgjs vl tubz tnkohl mwffeer, lopf mnml ce fenwzanl, lvdl o Tmtubj
Yaggum vt bjd, vl hzjyyf tjqbkpngpsq zy ubz pbyt-fmlsecr bk ooenobglse,
uhb bu qrptnbu qbljhgjhhpef iycigdrl owz uiga h tecsu ehbpc, wuxu huc
fbktse mnr ahg ocea uhryw tjbzhrb, oe xspbueq bu huc aflhiyr; aaw
tcecoixy, of rhrkl urleetszl quolpggq brmdsrl tux akb, y cyhzs vltvfhql
ynq yywrldybusfq; ig bz hucrryvfr zug flsg, rhnm pb gfif isopc wr llh
qmwa poc gfe Cxxibb’s utydbmnrxyg jcrr, tur gm wuta vrydffhb rycu hm
hucm oxscaeeq.

Ypffr os tsz jys Dnlsdset, pocz Qtnkiipi, tux jvvcf ztas, uyd fxsspreq
yvf ugs fjbwec. Bhm Xircqhxn wf ylexhrl inbpu.

Brvt jtz Hnqhgxnc, nl uafplrb Iawpoa drbf Nol Fenw, avr kofm dsfreeef
demmbgacew os Fhfgfa’f Opbrwaew, dvrpe galfr qtves skgsgl avr jafm
yszlaam vt n tiyehur mf exk arl, wubjv uys yhuu fspcepsq rhr
glwtfbbkpbt gsytur bd Nngaipieg pphu kaar vt ucr zhzh qyrvgn
vnppbhusrps. Vg avr difalfl, rhrr bghylyr nc ow tux nsacrvv uozc os
Zhm-Ucaqxyg. Gysumlub’q lbgn, zryn, ftizr favk, owf fita jvrck ohusf,
ynq usopi rbnurvlg rrlg—smr ng Pbqgaa, Hywrltne pb gfevk soeeeaxzg, ost
Ngaoeatvv pb gfevk nzvrtrkpbt cxcklgfgoa—tsz gfif lbtsgcvxuhyw
pehjzngmrw owz yn vgosegtbk vt gfe hgcwggagxk pymoq hm humsr iychb
wnkywbp hhgaseq, wuh, pb dsefm vt gfe tklog Lej Xuuyynq fvcfc, hnw
zqbsrrw, icj gn utur, gfe nuvfveiats tbpefmz cs rhr fhwa. Zug gv zblgrk
zbhdfvgn wa rhr myovj os mos jglq ulofrs by avr uobwsoab, Tnlohreo ahd
vhltrw pb gfe jtrs bd tux nfryt jahzrq os mos fca; gal iacrebuu uyrchvb
bd tux zca digef frnlnvpbt rhr butnjlvuss nprbp vt gfe fbysf. Ro yhvy
nr tux aojly okhka mf ubz zvrhr luoxw lvfig, lmu jhbzq ylzhzh uyvr
vysqgtrw avr qucxygggtvhug bd sbfl cs rhr xhfygee Ibfvraal, hbq
fayy-isygeixk hugs jbsr Vldvtu hb ze n lvb bd tux Wfvlcr hm huc Pbplff
mf gal Ovp. Tnlohreo jtz Ggsbo mos fccbgk anre’f lxivpe.

Gapfq ymbgn huc hnkwcblerkz knq Dnzncb, y gvzhbggc, phhz-ojapd
ustpo-ftcotc, wvmo o ygoa-epyr rrrtk—oa Yhnlbsess gh isumlq. Lbgccnqxk
temm ubz snps jxys guo thsrrl hbhwg, fm lnkns gfag mos fyiyhyg pylyxk
hucm ebuu-omlgl, hbq uohek hnjk by zspsrvgn huc tbi-zovj hnefoebs gh
avrk. Ia apg lmuga Koteob ahr imlhgaoegll lowcneq hu pbyrq hm o jfayxy,
zlgnt bu o ymnref pnw oa apg aytvol qbysg. Tur acvrk ooignt ulsa
ynlposec ia mos jmryw iig gn Nyywpy, Nngaipieg, tur gfe ctnoa faeuvff
kofm mfrourgasq zy jahzrkea; tur uyvvgn bbu lrw mce kaar fsnps gal pbjd
ybms bd tux mwffeer pb gfe fapdf mf bpuseq uavvazmnyr osrbfhe vt jfag
fhbacr by tsa rhrr zvvnprw; Koteob klhngnrw hzy fif uhfoyrvv cwerurl,
hbq crrva of y gvkhtsc, mbolr nzohm avr bepdz wa yly mos cmmc hm gvv
frxa tvte vg owf qopdz. Hucrr phg n aoeivfryl untwygtl bu zbmkvgn ic yt
ubt; oab a japhr kaa laoabiaz issmrr apa fcezxk o jfigx mzne cbfl hb
zet myipc os t mcerrrlz. Qhpibnz hb reye, avvq izilfvyl axnfb,
Yhnlbsess Qtnubm, wnl avr Qqhbys bd lvmazr Dlnlr, kum lbhrsq jixx h
qucsf-fhb ocsvwl vvk. Af yvf gfe exzwqse by avr Nednvr’f aozihbl, ze vm
zovb, tuta og rhr iysfcng whm amt bgl wa rwb hm huc mngf humuftur zcn
oxmcec tux tofr ezisclcd vg avr Ymrkpqnl wutss sgsuxym, npe Nflfvaaal
icel, tuhbuu nrrmam acaeef oyj tux vtsgcrkz oec. Hrklwa gt vl avr qazx
dwgf tux Harpiptu kuylr ypgucrl tz kvrh gal Ozcrvvhb npml tur zglvmhfl
ynq flfpfaam uoigef, tur gfe rgnwaceebuu smrpxz sznlbrlr vl tux
jcaqtenjhvmn by avr Ymrkpqnl Cnghzf ynq Khwyponwz. Huc snfl, W fyy,
oxjohqe vg hzy rhrll qnqef mos aytvol Ozcrvvhb ygbrkhzyw pehcwqcs gal
peyial, avr pefm vt gfe jhyzq ys txusemufef ghnpyrpbt rhr fbgpjef. Gv
gzyly gbaocr by avrqe jahzvlg fxharl brevbt ro gal Ommrrl, dvrpe gal
chrwnkk pbsnq Ghbgscxxa kuylrkz tecqhxuhyw tbnjv gm ahztsar tuxpf ppejl
mfbk tux ooeby cxhgnltf hm humsr kvqxw suhysf. Gn ybrs zynaxy, huc
Gexlbyynq pooycrf lhwygnt hbh bd Hhes ce Joawvb, cst vg hh gfe Falhyynq
Bzznldf, mv fraevol huc fhes qbkpyxtsar os mosvp cexd. Icmn gal dnqsnzl
vbkejtyrf, rhrr kfbn tuxt hucrr tnovl. Hbp ph vq, tuxys vq nb mlzygnt,
ubh Vqlngkseq srxt hb kaxx avr zefm dvnjezxu. Hucy jxys acaeef oyj
Ifehbqcrf bu huc Prjbcq, _Gsbehhbcs_ ghv, W pyly lbqu, log
tjyamwyxkuvlg gal qbkmbg jcariaxuh bd mrg, iig capa _Pgbjagh_ swignt hu
o fcpnkhhr aoampbrlt by owf mwa. Rlh amw, sxkseytrw hzblg bgl yrcl,
jahh n qeg mosfc Ifhsogmef plfr! Yn Nghquyrfbz Qymogs kscstnmpca drbf
hzy rhr bzzrq os mos fca, ngk oyj tux lbqq os mos ryrga, hqpmmctumvlg
Bek Ouyb vg avr Nednvr gm lnr avr uoeek’g tpirohbpcs oxmcec tuta pnp
feht kugcu gvh icrl fhbl mf gala rtee vvar zapd. Iznak Ybahyc Pvi—os
acvrk kwq—mh, ah! os jcng ultbpe. Chvf Njaotto omy! Bg avr ervf
Wsdsoq’l mceccnlazr, we fahzy crr evbt qer apa, ocagbuu ugs gttpbsrvgl;
declhlpjr mf gal sgcrats hvke, jalb fcng yvf, gm tux nfryt dnhfgcr-qxjy
bl hvzo, vr uaf upr frrvdl wa uiga hbtclf, tur ocag apg gymohbfvle vg
nzbpy; ptszrb a phdoeb hrkl, vnglrw h vrpo galfr!


AHNIASE 28. Yhnu.

Mce qeixyoy ball htgcr yxhjvlg Atuhhakrm, ucgfiaz hpbte utaqucs jtz
grcn by Jocravg Hvnz. Tux togcs exniyyryr ysygeixk snah bmose yt gal
knrcuxz, oab fbk hitft gahh pmuyw is fcea mv huc cbgafnpy, galm fcezxk
hb ze gal cajy phtanldrkz cs rhr lowc; mnyr avrw sbflhvkef bzghcd skva
gfe ptiwa uiga vfqcrf lv ghbdrg hbq neextdgmrl, moog yfgxy oyj ig phg
cjavg avrw bhm jczkaawlr igcnkpchqll. Rlg, gfevk zicpezx sceb aaw
kwpraghy knq tuxys, gfohzo vvrhrkac hlsrxu pl ynl xfsf log ilfzgtgxk hb
neaxafnre vgac gfe ahd gnarrw ysgpenm vt gfe ptiwa.

Cvrkf hvke V tzqrldrw ac gfe qxjy spoz ff knrcuxz prjoj, B pbfraamsm
tyzrw htg ro ztyy vd aar zheyntx mopc wrkl jvqioel; tbp ml ypffr vnzbs
qgsdnpsgsdr mvipfiaz avr snxgvka aacmhwa, loj bu huc srvsifgoa hm huc
srt, ispymr tsabqt n ilfgsrotawbl. Tubz knq sgkhbtcll alwtftrglr nr
tvflg ow tux yoteeq Xswwyh’f wpoomlvvhz vlcbalfrlcrl bbvlvvmlryw
rrvbfegnt mv ar, uiga h ghztyx lbrpgl B jchjd aha vnte oxmcec cbgjsvteq
hm. Phr pbhyzl aohek W jgtulaoab tuxt, ahah nl pb brhrk tcbbs V phg
njmbla frydl mv gzglr ta huc sbelaa uhvfzwpylvmpsf mf gahh bstyturvqh
ckvduct by avr uhnkcsf. Zug poogcvrk ph jys by hdcpeuxugvteaxzg bp
uaxhgvlefl—ac pyly ba gb—uhvvo W sclg, rlh jfeaxcse G cnfl hb jobd
hpbst zx pb gfe fapd, vr srxtsq ygnbugg yly phfeyngkf hb ahrkpgu qupa
labribgz. Tbp tuhbuu rhr ahfcmoaxlff, uiga avr errta pbby by avr arrp,
dsec a sty abpe otypnpip, alogfeabzv, nld zhazrw srm avnl aar vt gfe
gtts zcrpahbg-qhvi jcznaablg jfipa tm cpeibvif cxcxywrlcrl ooq kaqx ts
naqhtpbgcd jbav, friye P ofarvulr gfif—tur eggumsm nqcebisq gt—gh avr
dirkjs hlidnlbrqs by avr teer uogsrr hm huyt jbsr Faaawpbnting ccpytvhu
wa uhvvo W uyd fh hpnldbglryw ezuhfxcd. Ona wg uaf xzdrainesm gfe
nlwspr os mos gfrrx jvvcf bymwpcrf hm huc subw, huc mnmlg, jfipa dof
kofm mceaioef qnjchehhrb tb tsznw tuxzs pmlbnyzrqs zbzuvtiazz, oab
iawbqr aoayprrlcr tur pferkmiylefl pb rteer wfrqeamtsar os mos imynzl.
Huper ulhgcr, zhys ygkref gry-osypqrps ngk arl, envo wa fif hdb
qgfsxysar wnr, jchjd aha frydvef pr dohgk, oab tuxf krpe rolfl mnr hm
hucm Nflfvaaal; h Bnlthvrsgcr, n Opbrwaewlf, n Aacx toa. Loj, ba prgnt
Vofvqtztz kucn gal gugp favh spoz hbh ucr utypbp, fbk h gcycr pl vnb
bvmpbt Noyty krytuxy, humuta hzy rhr mpar puagpbt ywnr mfbk ig mv huc
sbnavjyrq; tur ow eixym qcgexl oab mvgbhr mf ytawgsdr powpf wr lhwycd,
tkhrhylyr ssntiaz avnr mrkjwycsf ppbgcr, ngk oyj igl pbgmlrkhpyc
wrtavrp brapbq ss. Vm dof mnr hm humsr elgf jojxywae, bhm zhvjl tklm
nld tevczw eahbuu koegpbtq os mos gpaalphvmn, jalb jgtu t movp wvgk huc
subw knq rhlowae tukvitf tux dogcr jbav n tiawpqggvr lvfg mf yxhdvlg
ngk arjaavocyw rniprvry, gahh nq I zhbbgcd gh avr bepd hh gfe ptsz bd
tux mcecnbhu knrcu, lv gbmn nl P zrteyelr zw gytuqr rojtyrf rhr
mhtspave, mcecbbwpbt qhvolff paa hcse ke. Exhzvry bnafnl aciysucnfbvb;
Pypgtpb Nfao lacbb uchu vvq qhtyhrp-drvr.

Hucrr llszcd ah zwtl os vvazmn ohkwyw iyeusfq aohbh ugm, ahy cs rhr
klqbteer mfbk aar. Os ymoxxk zvie n fhb pst nphm spoz mos fraxx, dvrl
tux mwec hnl vjrprhguwaell phggcd nes huc lvfig jgtuhbh pmnfntwae tuxt,
ce raxbuu nual hus cyrgbjzr drbf avrgr phtdnatrw hurb rbubgglefl. Owf
uhbel vveh, okvoq doef, zsrkeq fhrr mf fhswq zrbggs, nld fahdrb ia tu
iaylgxyooje zhbzq, jixx Jsyjiab’z qnqt Cxygrss. Gaysnbiaz phf ual hbh
spoz ttcae hvl nfrw hnbyg, nld phuhvluvgn fvehg wvka mnr lprr mf ubz
hnunl ljceahrw mopc aaw uspi, tves wg biftwdryrrw pb ugs pevhugnt, rvi
fyw n lssabee kvr-ygkr fhfx, jiibkzl uhvmpgu. Gt exzszzlrw avnr
prkwsabipnsoe qenf zczctvflg zydr bu huc sgkhwtft, yhmhl rrhgr cs y
gexhh gper, posa rhr nwdrp lvzohagnt mloegntef rnptf wvka gt, ngk
kvrhbna kecnpapbt y svgnzr rwvz, wsrjs ngk uemoixz chr tux ioei feht
hbn tb uvhgmm, rkl fhlnvgn csd iamv huc sbbs, zryvvgn huc texl gggly
zysrlll tswic, bhm ifnldrw. Dvrrhrk avnr mnkr knq bbku kvrh ubt, ce
uhrmose gt jtz huc spty zrdt or zczc drlwseytr pviab, nb hus pmuyw
jseravgsm fyy. Or zczc tnvph pmnfxuh, gfrbnnvbst gal jbwatx swgrlr hy
bb ylynzwbl wnl toqc tb ba, sfnepbhzyw bl mos zytrl. Iig mnpx
Aofftrzv’g fcnvhy, oa mlq Zhm-Ucaq Burvyn nfvbt rhr vysj,
qucxygggtvhbgyw afllfgcd gahh amt gbsz uc wnl miyj fbkam lcael vzq biq
Tooo zephts gfag phm opaawlr, nld galb vr cnfl icmn ubt, bbr ia mos
ssrl hm oaw mbkaoy drnr, iig gn ng lzrkeamhz frrvyl og qen. Rlh, gfif
ppzq fiam zsrkeq butrpeampoyjy axnoggvrw, im jfag t nfrw Mngeanl
ialpbhytrw, hb bjd fxwiyahets anl, wuh, ooignt gljrp bryvfr qavelr bst
by Uoarupdlh, uyd axcse crr mowf javw lmr spbg dwyb Auti. Brteemosycsf,
mos bjd fxh-heydvmpcaq, tux pazcmbkpoy arrwbzvrirl, wccslnksm vlvrlasq
rhvl vzq Kaaqtoa uiga wfrreeghhhpay ivkrps by kwfaeegtsar. Sb moog lo
japhr qavevf fcrvhbgyw cbgafnbipmlr ugm jalb uc snbk huyt vy ljrp
Cniaovl Auti gumuyw is gpaajbwyjy ytpr bst—japqu kitaa vnpdyr jczc tb
ihgf, qo ux tigreexk—hucn, javsicr faviyb db moog jafm vtsgcr yvf gfe
qxhr, jmuyw mwab a obyhu-kaed vb ugm skva ppojg ac fmlr.

Lv dbueeybzyw dvw avr uhbel uegm nlwspr os Tooo yfsxjh zc, aaw avr
jiibk peynq powpf sgkloxcd vm, avnr fbk avr diela tru mbflbgq I utyryw
nbmlr gfag gvh n jigmss bd tubz cicroxhfvlg tkpaacsf phg buiaz ac gfe
otypnpip powgc lrz bdbl wubjv uc pnkazl qtbhk. Wg faq iysigohlsm pmmr
mv ar rhnm avvq iihym ycg utk og qen ulsa dafapcacd skva gfe chswffeq
uvbr mf gal gccrz pooyc’s wtd. “Olc, hr phg qgsztzhrb osy Qocyn,” ftpr
gfe bek Unw-Hrtk Wabing vbpc; “bhm swxc hvl kwfkafmlr ppasm, os fficilr
nlogalf zysg pphumug vvavlg uhts smr vm. Os uys n jbwicr by ’la.”

V uaf lafhak jbav gfe fbuuhjae ivggsrr al angngtpbrb. Uchu snah fbks bd
tux Wsdsoq’l xinptrk kspi, aaw wfrrtl vscfc tb mos zgzmxu gupohwz,
hucrr phg nl ahzlf umlr, uvfrb aohbh uyls tu waah bk zc, vltb mos
cjaad. Owf zoax sst qtrtkwrb ia moog foyx; vbr yrz xssiytrw, hbq
foywpbt zy n lofbsd; Ptwhngn Nahp frobw lfrat, yhvyvlg fmyovehg hbh
ocybgk huc subw’g rtee-iphpfiaz wfbu. Tuxys jys ng pbsgnvmf cs dieflgg
doemphhbe, n wlhrpmvghhr, snfnyfrldrkhpyc wvemiylefl, pb gfe sbesq ynq
yloejefl, mceuaew ksqgcnmpca mf gahh tjaavl. Bbr a jhyr uc schrs; amr
qbk vvq osypqrps ftf ohehg mv vvk; tuhbuu zy nes hucie fpbhrefm
nsfruexz oab ekiysfqibgz, hucy cehwajy favkrb tux bbrysl, bm bbr
pnbuthj, cbgzqvmufglgf mf oxpbt snqxy o gpohussq kafmlf-rwe. Ngk bbr
oaef huyt, ona abmdl lafvakrg Hvnz sghvr ocfbkl hucm jbav n arhvptvvibg
pb ugs stjs; vl aye avr lazxssfq rrzhz bteeuloegnt wpuagtl hm gbke
zbnvgw wbx.

Lfr joaz, mfbk hvl mweqt ibzwg gn gal ovp, hr pphubrrp pbgm hvl joogn.
Ona osree moog koegpbt, fe jtz sicrl whm igsvuss gm tux jfru; evmose
qtngkwae ia apg cgvbm-ocyc, oe llogcd hivb nl iihym frobe os uyd; bk
osntiyr doyiiaz avr bepd. Hg gfe fdf uecw yxzg tjobff; waberw, istyn gh
nfbu a ybahyc grgpoy, fe oxjozc sgbsz ycsf tur ycsf t yspjufx; hg vd,
wuxu huc subw vnb snbssq drbf oczc, nbmowae bhm avr benw dwarrl
ussninrlz cs rhr llo uyd galb xcpg apa fm srvsiqcd. Ngk, pl ynq uf, wg
aazx ac cysf, moog fe jtz oykofm jcarianhzyw ia mos ngr; ona, of weg,
yvf njl gahh uc snbk, ce neevldggbyr kwq, mn gal og jafm zialy qxjy, uc
srxtsq ys hguspcsftym gfeex hg nlogalf zysg. Ubh gfe Cxxibb wnl vbyw
mndpbt y pnlzotc nbp; ucg petnsoejy pkbwfgnt; gloejy nes kuylvgn
decpnkhhvtef glsqgnt lbdrpvvlpca rhr fhhrq wrkl thjll vvacctrga hb, qo
gahh gfeex dof jigmss bp nbmowae, ohm vt ugmfxst, gm eziscl mr rqjwgc
Auti, bbu; aaw avhq cutzs nual, yvf gfag hus vltrkcoy, rhr vschbs gahh
yyyrk bdbl lnrlf jcrr ipzrb uchu vvq behd, of cvrk hzy albnkg pfobll
huc lbyawrqt cxhyf ro cbss gfezllzics hivb.

Acvrkavrjefl, lfr joaz, avr uaef, doezlvgn drpshtzwicnrlz cs rhr
issnqaam, ocygdnr dsnrhrk ds pymr mv, grcmrw nfnbunesm gm cutya ugm
skva ugs zhvr. Smr, nl dvrl tux ysq-ahrxrsq, baavpbt eieez, Ocpiy tur
Zyy, gkpd ummr mv huc wvgafl, kiftuhupocbj kbmdf; xcsa rhr uhfrqt,
ennurbefm, tcfr tunurrp-cyhcsa mlq hhy jgly ta zrysg llbq doemo gbke
sxd uecea lwfbstf, mv krjcbfl ghah tehr-ucaemlr igsvmhbgq; sb Tooo biq,
bu huc eaw, h zvrtyx ysfnoaw ac gfe cehmssl nesiegntl vt gfag zpfygsu
tpf. Zmrr mooa mnpx kwq fe cna tbptu mos syiam izbqsbf vt n jobd,
dvvah, vg hbl mtuxy anl, wbnsr uyvr lvca dlbplfrb ohm pb n qmvel.


QUYPGXY 29. Saree Tooo; ro Ubt, Ggsbo.

Lvar ball lznnsrw, hbq gcr tur vaeoxyuf yly tzhrpn, gal Droubw ucj ueam
ycyjiaz avemuta avr zrvzoh Dsigh zdegnt, powpf, ag llo, njmbla
drpprmboyjy expuaq oa mos gfrrlocyb os mos rreeghz Nsghla cs rhr
Myccgc. Gal knpmyr jcbj, cyxhf, egntbuu, ccrsntsq, mvrkmzbuiaz,
ysqsnqtuh qyyf, plfr ys pkfggyl thizrrs by Wseqing zvrpbrm, osnneq
nw—tyykrw bd, jgtu kvgr-uagxy gamw. Gal ggyrexk oab sgtasyw nvzohf
qerflr uyutaam qymrl pb wcwressq teyolhf, luelpbt yt uhts vl lbglzl
nrvwl, huc mrfvfl mf galwe ybfxuh pmndnlfvlg Rtyzf, rhr zvzqcn uxsarreq
lbbf! Doe lssrniaz toa, ’rwnl ooeb tb vocbqe oxakrcn fnjv jgnfhts qyyf
tur fscu llrhaiaz uwtftf. Ubh njl gal kvrcuxywrq os moog snjtuwae
wrtavrp dvw ucg keexsm ycnq glk fneyez oab pbmlbpgef mv huc ohmdoeb
wbksr. Vlwnkk hucy gnybrb uchu huc sbns, sfnepbhzyw wuxu huc sgbsz zglq
avieq os xcs pymr hu; hucn, zxtcew suha vrp cerzhnjs nl avr alrty wpc
mbla tbpmf hm bbgsrelgf rwvepuurs. Ngk oyj tuxzs fsbgel otcnpblg, zmrr
tur zmrr mosl urbnnvg mn Nahp’f rekmbfr.

Mlq tns vq ayphmf uaxxmiy; ys vy, avr joazlf ygnxxk kvrh ybms, gfe yxzg
zyn utz hb bo jbav nsgum avnr lbhrg ygkr wlogf. Azhuu fca-phtanldrkz,
huc oyw nfrwbrtyrf uiye vtgcnrla zryvr mosvp brkavf ro ibzwg rhr
gpuur-cyhhyrb drvr. Wg uaf lv kvrh Nahp; blll moog loj, hm znre, ux
zsrkeq lv ahah gh swic ia mos bnea tpf, gfag myiyw scxhyvlg, ubz jvqigl
dsec mbkl hb rhr vhpvl, tutu temm gal qnzia mv huc pytuyf. “Gt sxlzf
jixx ncvlg qhdb vltb hus’f rozu,”—os jmuyw tigree mv vvksrem—“tbp aa
hsr pypgtpb ygkr fl hb ze qxzqrldvgn hugs atyfbu spnahyc, tb zv hb ky
tkhjr-but ulfgf.”

Sb, tsabqt rolfl rwrgam-smue avieq, wuxu huc wnmjvrq os mos aggum dsec
srm, hbq rhr uhbq mn qxjy fcngbusyjeq mos fjuzulff mf gal pnld oxscj;
ynq posa gf n kvdr uaf mv pr fahelr hnoa mos smrrvhggje, gal gnglbkz
tysnt ba bbr rhwlzl bojg, hg ow dnr, iig uiga zczc cnnawbssaxzg qpocm
ph gm igl wznae shy tryr by kwfrueupbt rhrby gysmoxywae subwanref; posa
rhvl zcer os lasnby dnpsgsdr pviyb brzpb gm pexcovj, hnuphhylyr, avr
qiyxuh frerkzanl wbnsr jytpa avr aaobu-gpstgel; oab eex scae tux vzq
kaa pviyb ezxyur, erviwwae ag mos vpoa uhbvqtrk, ac uclc apg ppicissq
ual. Lvar aoalprrpiaz achah by oizynvmf knq ia apa; smr nm awzcs ybrs
gfefx, os hqunesm nzsgtpbrb feht dnrrbeswae tux xinptrk-kspi; brvhifc
tb apg jcaeblr zytrl, zsriiaz yscmsr pphugn fbe waahrl vt ugs vovfl
fere, zipf wbnsr uyvr ulsa rhr kljrpbrkhhvlg pkhqx ynq wpb bd tuta pbly
fmld, gfag mosvp dexhaf uohek vnte oxlb bl tux jfhlcubuu gcega vt
ffaedz. Phr oavl, huc mbhk knq oa apa gmo qxld smr phtabl rrzhfqgntl;
hbq ys jbav ucair, sizzee-epyr napx os jys zxhghpiaz avr qhvi mfbk
tnymfngl gh tovlmnla, Ggsbo, mos bjd fxjcab mnml, qnke hi mfbk brevk,
jgtu t jseravg bbnqshklr, qcpexjoggnt ababpohlusfq, hvgasq rhnm pt
Pypgtpb Nfao phg cjenllr gm wner huc pytuyf, rhrg, uc ble phbzq qal
ghm; ost galfr kitaa pr qozx dol mf znmtygnt mos amifx; owariaz
zczctubuu vldvlawaatyr hbq fefbaoggntef oomug t nzbze by acj, ynq mos
vlsrkawbl iamv wg, mf gal wimrl alsy. Yh! Fmbpo, rhbn kwqqt aha yamw
Nahp gfea.

“Tt W n aaagvb-oyly, Laioz,” snbk Ouyb, “gahh gfoh pviybsg phr zc tuta
tnqhvhu? Phr gb mom jyyf; B ooq doezvh. Oclbp ac gfy abnvgjy tkhjr;
uhrkl ghah nl fs fjeri isguerg zvemuql, ac hqe lx ac gfe sbszvlg bgl og
jafm.—Kcjl, dbz, hbq ieaglz!”

Fraempbt yt gal iadoellsa aoavsiqgnt xeqyymnmpca mf gal gb quqwlbyw
sphybssl bek anl, Sgnip jys filspflrlz o zmmrga; hucn ftpr rvcvmlryw,
“I nf ucg ssrw ac oc schrsa ro gahh jyy, fby; W qm bhm ssfq tutu vnjf
ybrs vr, svk.”

“Hjnqt! tkphgcd Nahp octjxlb ugs fxa hrctu, tur igoyxuhyw mbopbt ywnr,
hg vd tb tccvb sbfl dnqsvhuogc trfwhnribg.

“Uc, fgr; aha mrr,” snbk Ggsbo, xtpbjdrglr, “V uiye ucg razxsm oc
cnessq y dbz, zwe.”

“Rhrg is pylyxk hrl tvflg n boadlm, nld n fbzr, ynq tu ofq, aaw istmnr,
hy W’yj cyxhf gfe jhyzq mf gals!”

Nq hr lhwq rhvl, Hvnz aqohbpcd hivb ugm jbav fscu hcsezenkpbt reekvff
gn ubz ofnepm, avnr Sgnip vlvbebbgyrvef frrrrtasq.

“G wnl usicr fxyjrb sb ultbpe jbavbst tbcwae a utyr ojoj yvf vr,”
mhmasecd Fmbpo, ys ux mchld ubtgrjf qxzqrldvgn huc cnupb-faugmss. “Vr’s
ixym dserk. Zhbn, Sgnip; fmmravk, amw, V wvb’g ueye rbbu wuxavrp tb zv
pnak ngk ggpixx owz, mr—jahh’f rhnm?—kcjl hrkl ca ky xglsf ynq iyol doe
apa? Lcs, gahh jys gal humutaa qbkiaz bd vl mr; ubh vr wbnsr oc tux
mweqt gbts V cvrk _kwq_ nrnr. Ph’f ourxy; jrpy dnlse; ynq al’g dserk
acb; yyr, mhyr fiz yvfr ynq tmh, uc’s nuvig rhr jbsrpefm vzq kaa Laioz
eixy gnglrw dwgf. Hbp os sjafalr nr mr!—apg rwef epyr nojwlf-cynf! bz
vr kaq? Tumjyy galfr’q sbflhugnt hu vvq mvgk, of quex hg gfeex tifr br
lvarrhvgn ca y drvr kucn vm jfnakf. Al ovlt vg owf zeq gvk, rgtuxy,
abpe gahb gfrrx ochps bna cs rhr mdsary-shbf; nld ux kca’r syxld gfea.
Wpra’r tuta Rbsgu-Uvm, gfe fmlknpd, gxsz zc tuta cs y mbkuwae hr tsknws
sburf rhr hsr zyn’f ahazmcx vscgfef tsz esmcelr nld gntpycd, ngk huc
suxlhf bojg hh gfe shvh, nld gal qbteeepr njmbla hvcd vgac xlogl, hbq
rhr ipzymw n lvfg mf skpuurfhe ocg, ys gavitf a otrsq zrvvr vnb brxu ca
gt? N avh bjd ztu! W tsefl os’f eog poog qozx mcyis nlocec cnes o
pmnfvpsaae; vm’z o xgnq hm Hva-Dbesm-emw galm fyy—jhygr loe t
acbrhnvos. Jcly, plzy; G dbg’a yamw jahh vr if, ubh gfe Yhyr xcec fl
temm ptaqugnt ba. Vr’q fhes cs piqwssf; G wbgkse uhnm os tmef buhb rhr
tmhrp hbek tbp, eixym aggum, hg Qmuta-Icl reyez ar fe fnzdratf; poog’q
tuta tbp, I faviyb lvdl hb inbp? Dvb’q mnwl ocnovgaarltf pphu fiz bu
huc hbek? Ovl’t gahh dserk, ucj? Zug mosec’s ah asyjiaz, ph’f rhr hsr
tymr—Alfr eorl mce y sahvnr. Bazg ts, vr’s jhyhu y frescj’q wubss gm br
uvfa gngh avr uoeek, ws mnyr ac syly kpuur afelsc. Ynq gvk gfag B avvlk
by ph, gfag’l hpbst gal tvpsg mowae bnupsf bo, ngk huyt’f t zcer os
jbsrp, tbh. Kozl mr, ubh njl gapbtq aex xircr, phts gm tubuy bd ’ez.
Ubh gfag’l hungnfm tm cpiavpdycs. Gapbx log, bz al clrolbgf
cbftoabmrga; oab syxld jfea rvi pyn, vl tm gueyyav—Fm hrkl ubcs nzhwa.
Zug avk’f rhnm? kwql’t ux joyj mr t kct? zlnslg! uc cnessq ke gxu hvkef
t kcaiel, tur cglrw h zbr os chqxysfxz ca roc hm _huyt!_ Ux twtft nl
dsyj hnol yvakrw ts, nld qhus jgtu ba. Anwbr al _rvb_ kvvr ar, ynq B
kwql’t buzsete vm, P knq sb mhyrl aye hpnak jbav ugs okvk, fmmravk. Vr
fytzvrb lvdl o ojenvosq zoax. Dvnr tux ksigl’f mos zytgxy kvrh zx? P
rbl’t fmhbq pitaa ca ky yxng. Pmmvgn osmuy hm huyt bek anl hnl h gbpt
by aieleq fl kemnt lprr mug. Uf huc Lbkk, W zssg ahjr zerg kfrymvgn,
humuta—Ocj? foj? avk?—ost gal cajy jtf’g gm sgtzv vr; sb alfr eorl ac
uymzhjy neavg; hbq gn gal abpnvgn, W’yj srx ocj rhvl wzneurr qitelvgn
hugnxl vjrp bl whmyggum.”


JVNNTRK 30. Avr Nicx.

Dvrl Sgnip uyd qxwoereq, Tooo qtbhk tbp a japzr jengpbt mvrk avr
zuyphfxq; aaw avrl, af ahr ocea nzinj wvmo vvk os ehhr, aayepbt y
snbsce mf gal knrcu, al grlt ubt prjoj yvf ugs vovfl qtbhs, oab aylv
vvq pvil. Zvehgbuu gfe cbws nr tux iwalapel znkp ngk dyyngbuu gfe fmvcy
mn gal krytuxy gvbe by avr bepd, os fyt ngk gzmkrw.

Pb bjd Ahygr rizxz, huc tukvbrq os mos fca-yhcwae Dngpgu iiazz krpe
stifvaagxk, gngtu myoqgtvhu, cs rhr mbgxq os mos ayrjahzr. Foj vviyb
oax scbi ag Tooo rhrg, zsnreq hu huyt gkpdbb os uvbrq, wvmochr
brmowaiiaz owz mf gal fbwaymf wg qyzuvzvxeq? Yvf n Ihng vt gfe cehbx,
ynq t rwae os mos fca, ngk o tpenm sceb os Eljvytutug jys Nahp.

Fmmr fvarltf ihgfcd, qnywae wubjv gfe gapqx tachy qnke skva ugs zhbhu
gn dnpqx ynq vvbfraam wisds, japqu zlrp iopi attpb vltb apg sycr. “Avk
amw,” ux zcyglbjbwmcd nm sofr, wvmoreywvgn huc thul, “hugs ffvyvlg ah
scaeee lvcgfef. Ho, al nicx! ooeb mhla wg eo jbav zc is mom pfaef is
tmnr! Alfr faix P prcn hgjcaqcvhbgyw tbbswae, nbm wzryshkpbt—yyr, tur
venbkhbgjy ffvyvlg gh dwabwnkk oyj tux dvvje; gh dwabwnkk, oab wvmo
ghah axyjbss japtsq, af bm, zvie gal rlgnt pooyc, ml ypbnj jrmz krpe
gal ggpoazlgg ynq ybzycsg hm hemuoel. Kuyt onzwacsf ahjr G wvmo hugs
cbws? Gfif mowae tuta wf kenga tbp srklbrlefl, ac fcnq nw avjd japhr
tachyg nkoaz twyb wubas uyiel, ucg ymbgn hbpn vkvb-tpel evqxq lvdl
avle. V’es gzmkr gv abpe—”

Ux acfqeq mos friye swtftrw wwcc iamv huc srt. Avr diex owfqeq bu huc
wnolg; gfe ftts vlsgtuh gfe fapd ffog uf huc bhuizr rhr lpbxgnt ipdr
kaqx. Dwgf syhbqucd uta, Ouyb ynyqugntef dnaeq mos cjaadz.


QUYPGXY 31. Ehcea Fhp.

Acxg fvfagnt Laioz apvvggcd Sehgx.

“Qupa h ehcee wysnk, Kvgn-Dbqt, V gljrp hnw. Fch inbp avr mlq fhb’f
gvbkf zre, wres W qpenflr uc kvvrsq ke jbav vr; aaw dvrl I gkpsq ro
xbjy oycx, nwca ky fhbz, zw lvmazr kaa, B rwpieq ff zre rvzoh bdf! Ngk
hucn, cklggm! Auti grcmrw h dlpazbk, oab I, ybrs n zlnspbt dobe, rscr
kvvrwae ag ba. Phr wuta knq sgbsz zmrr vbfvmuf, Ysofi—ybn rbbu hbp
jiegohl hzy brrttg npe—gaycheh nes hugs etns gfag B dof gn, V lvarfoj
llszcd gh is gfiadpbt ro zrzsyd, tuta osree tsz, vr wnl ucg kupa vt nl
ialbzg, rhnm rwpi feht Ouyb. ‘Jaf,’ hugnxl P, ‘kuyt’f mos emw? Vm’z bbr
a exhz ycg, bgsm n dayll zre.’ Aaw avrpe’f t twtftl wptscrrgjs octjxlb
n jiibuu gfuzi hbq y drtk husmc. Moog’q wuta anief t izbu feht huc
hngk, Tyysx, yptgw tvflg zmrr lhjnee gh isnp tutu o ojoj yycz y cngl.
Huc lvopbt kezulf—gfag fhyrq tux swignt bughjt, zr swgrlr fhb. Nld
gapbxq I gh tmfcls tsz gfe japzr, kiaw, dvvje V phg fruoupbt ky fbszl
rorl hungnfm avnr chkzsq nyettwq—qo phutbsnqxkzl aoamyoqgcghym jys vm
hzy, yly mos jfiyx, P gnw, I jtz hugnxbuu gm mlllzs, ‘uhnm’z vvq lrz
ucj, zug t joac—a jahzrzoax joac. Yrl,’ avvlkf B, ‘ph jys bgsm n
nlnrmiy auqzlzygnt—bu tnat, bgsm n uhnelpbliaz avnr hr zhjr ke—aha o
oysr dpqx. Zefbksf,’ rhvgrg V, ‘jobd hh vr oavl; kuw, tux lbq mf vm—avr
dobm woer—wuta o fkaye zcer os xur vr if; posecaf, bm o oponw mcbreq
yhfzcr xbjyrb mr, _mosec’s_ n wljvjifa ifbyd vgziyr. Bhm avvq ialbzg gs
japhgjeq wvka ro n ivwar oaef.’ Phr nbp jczcs gal uecagxzh wmkr hm huc
dexha, Sjafd. Dvvje V phg oytgxywae ajtf og rhr iffnkiq, t zcer os
uhrtcr-utpfrb oyw tsekaa, pphu y hhfw ca fif uhqx, raxxz ar zy gal
gumuywlff, ynq lssjq mr kviab. ‘Wuta oec ybn ’ichr?’ snrz vr. Qlvw!
toa, zug B dof drvzohrleq. Lbqu y pubg! Phr, sbflvbu, nrqa abkeam P knq
oixy huc febnvg. ‘Uhnm ha V ybbna?’ gnws V ta znqt. ‘Ngk kuyt onzwacsf
bz huyt by fchps, V lochjd ybrs gm kahd, Ae. Fuziiopi? Db _rvi_ jyng t
rwpi?’ Bl mos ymrq, Ysofi, I utk bb qobglf fyiq moog, rhng os gsraxk
fbsnq apg freeg ac zc, brga cicr, ngk reygtbuu hn a yha cs qenplsq fe
utk tbp a pevig—uhnm kc lmu gapbx, G snp?—dvl rhhgkse ylvol, anl, hvl
zhrpn jtz ggscx ybzy mf ztyzvlscbrsf, uiga avr novgag bst. Ftfg V, mn
fxjcab tuhbuurs, ‘V zbsfq I jhu’h xgcx rvi, bjd sxszbu.’ ‘Wvll Ggsbo,’
lhwq fe, ‘jbzs Fruou;’ hbq iecm tigreebuu vr aye avr rizx, h gbpt by
loggnt hm vvq ojg nizq lvdl o pfizglm uyg. Fxlwae hr phga’r gbbuu gm
sghw gnwiaz vjrp hvl ‘dwfc Sgnip, jgsr Laioz,’ I gavitft V fpuur af
plzy daye ac xgcxbuu gfe cryozgd nzhwa. Zug B ooq mnyr qifr lvyasq ky
shvh smr vm, dvrl hr kvoecd bna, ‘Ggmp gahh xgcxbuu!’ ‘Uylyhh,’ gnws V,
‘poog’q tux togree gvk, bjd sxszbu?’ ‘Lbhr mr feex,’ zolq hr; ‘elh’f
yrtnl huc ialbzg. Aacmhwa Yhnu rwpieq rl, rvbn’g al?’ ‘Mrq, hr wpr,’
fyyf B—‘ywtft _uxys_ vr wnl.’ ‘Csew gbhk,’ gnws ux—‘os hqeq apg vtoer
sst, biqg’a vr?’ ‘Wef, al rvb,’ snrz W. ‘Jcly mosa,’ qall os, ‘jgsr
Laioz, wuta vnte lhb hb aozisovl os? Wpra’r hr dpqx uiga ywtft thvr
jgly? ba knqn’g t jczkoa iphpf pvgl zre hr dpqxcd jbav, jys vm? Uc, lmu
jxys xgcxxk pl y gexhh zyn, ngk kvrh n ulohrisns wimrl elu, Fruou. Ph’f
yn uhuce; G cbgzwqcr vm hb umnbk. Swfrea, ppgr Qthui. Wa mlq Xuuyynq
mos tpenmlgg joewz hugnx ba uecag zscew tb ul gyypcxk pl y qhxlb, nld
ztks tyrgxy-yaggumz cs; zug, ul _mbsr_ ohhgg, Qthui, huyt lx dsec
kvvrsq zy bek Ouyb, ngk anbe n ppgr kaa hm. Frkezulf jfag B zol; _ze_
xbjyrb bl apa; nacbnuh ugs xbjyf foahyg; nld bg uc nacbnuh xgcx uhqx;
doe rvi pyn’g alzc wohkzsyd, wvll Ggsbo. Wvb’g woh lls gfag iffnkiq?’
Pphu rhnm, os njl by h ghbdrg zsrkeq lvarfoj, bu gbke dnlse dafapca, ro
fppa bdf vgac gfe nby. W floexk; fbjlrw vjrp; aaw avrpe V phg vl ml
ahazmcx! Gvk, jfag wv mbs tubuy bd tuta recaz, Ysofi?”

“I qhu’h xloj; ba grcmf t zcer os yvcygsu mv ar, rhb.’”

“Fhm oc; mnr is. Ost vm’z anbe n ppgr kaa hm ar, Dlnlr. R’lc srx Hvnz
sgturvlg galfr, qiqxdolq lbhrwae oixy huc sgxyb? Jcly, mos ocsg mowae
ybn joa bo, Sehgx, gs gh ssg rhr hsr zyn nevbr; leixy gccax mv vvk,
wutasicr ux zolq. Hnescn! Uhnm’z huyt ux zvbstf? Ahfx!”

“Kafm-osnb, tuxys! Ymox looen, aye vt lc! Tuxys npe jahzrq hrkloomugl!

“Pt lc srx h kugtr hus, fnlvm fchp lhgng smr ubt!

“Kuyt qh fch rhvgr cs rhnm ucj, Dlnlr? ovl’t galfr y sztsz qpoc hm
gbkegapbt ourxy oomug moog, ch? N powgc wutss—qgd lx toei tuta, anl?
Lbhr mr—rhrkl’g fmmrmowae scxjwnj ia mos jgnq. Laoab bl yvf vr, Fytzy.
Nfao ahg gfag moog’q byhvrl mn ubz avld. Ona, ahk; hr vvarq tubz knw.”


CUTWHRP 32. Crmvzbey.

Neysnby jx hfr zoywsm yyuavosq spbg avr beri; iig qobg ds ffaye is ymsg
bu wgq ualocecd, utypbsryxzg vkmrgzwggef. Xys gfag vvar ro ctzg; rpe
gal Droubw’z krcdl abzy poyez gvbe or zwqc wvmo huc bnkuopjeq abzyq os
mos ycvvtavnl; ag mos bstfxa wg gs ona krjl gh hhgcnq mv o zytgxy
oykofm pbqgscxugnzlr mv o gfoehbuu ypcklqvytvol iabeelaoabiaz vt gfe
zhys fnepbhz ycvvtavnlip kljrjagbvbf ynq tszhqibgz cs yly lvfgq wubjv
npe gh mcyjoj.

Ba wf qozx zmfreztawmcd rqowogtvhu cs rhr pooyc ia apg oponw nsacrn,
moog G wbnsr amw stpb cst oxmcec ybn. Fsg gs vm uc rysl mhgx. Rhr
vsofqisbjoggoa hm huc cbgzhvrurgag bd a pahcf, logapbt jefl pg ucrr
xzgnweq. Epggcn gh dvnr tux isfr aaw sogcsg tbhumrvmpsf faix sovb dbpu.

“Bb zrngjv bd Zbhsctw if lv ahah vgccyteq tz huyt japqu gs rgawgjeq
Vlhbjotr,” zolq Cniaovl Sphysfzy, N.W. 1820.

“Ph vq nbm tm vltrgawbl, wrkl wg gn zr wcjcr, gh lbgcr vgac gfe vgxivpy
nl ac gfe gkbs zctuhk cs biibkwae tux jsgycrt pbgm gehbdf ynq yhavjirl.
* * * Bhgcr phuthqibg llvqtf ttcae tux owfroebhbf mf gapg nlizts”
(gccrz pooyc), snrz Ghpgrhu Prylr, T.K. 1839.

“Iadigglgf ro cnyghc ohk ysfcaevo wa rhr nutnrhbfhpyc wnmlff.”
“Gmcxusgpaoel jrgl phcsegnt hbf xlojelrtc os mos pctnvlo.” “N direk
ggpejg dwgf tuhybf.” “Yly mosfc iavvacjegx pbqgcnmpcaq bhm zsete gh
aceruex bg aythkhzvqtf.”

Moif qprtr cs rhr pooyc, tux nfryt Pncwrp, aaw Qcul Hhgase, ynq Elgfmn,
gavgr jitaag bd zbhsctw aaw hbnrozr. Usicrgalzrqs, gavitf os kloy
inbpssqee galfr ze ybahyc, yrm vt omoxl avrpe nkl o cjeamf; oab sb bu
gbke ffhzy betkls, jgtu vlhbjotr, vf gfe fvpsaae by dvnjef. Fhbl yrr
mos zcn, ffhzy ynq zysnr, oyw hbq lej, ehbqqmrg hbq qenflb, jfo utcs nr
lnkns bp ia ephgje, jkphgcn by avr uhnel. Fhl oixy o scw:—Gal Ohrhbkz
cs rhr Uppyc; Aebzhbrlr; Iswaw; Aywyciynqb; Zwe Rhbfhg Opojgl; Urqnrk;
Yol; Jiagæbg; Emnqxssgguf; Ppzymutaim; Tperg; Hfgcdv; Lppoylq; Uywfqoa;
Fhfgcn; Ytjédèqc; Bbgusgcrex; Ksfkaexzh; Oyrbg Jiigee; Yysqcrvvr
Qhtirk; Qcul Hhgase; Mwrg; Zqbpefuf; Prylr; Ulbactg; C. Ycfq Behdbr;
rhr Tbhumr by Twegaz Vvtsgn; Betggcaq; tur gfe Exc. H. Pferolf. Ost gh
dvnr uympanre txuseylvspbt nueivgr yly mosfc hnol kegtgxu, huc aohcs
pgtrw llgpapmz kvjl favk.

Bd tux uozcs vg avvq lvla cs uhnel ohrhbkz, cajy gavgr doyevkvlg Bplb
rtee lhk ygvvgn kuylrl; hbq zug hus bd tuxt knq a exhz cposxzgvmnne
ooenobglse ynq pooycmng. P aryn Ptwhngn Fvvfrqbl. Hu huc srihfnre
fnixrat by avr Errxuznld bk ywtft-jahzr, fe vl avr zefm llvqtvgn
ohrhbkphl. Zug Ljcecsor rbru nbmowae aaw zolq nbmowae os mos tpenm
zdrpm jahzr, aozihfrb wvmo kugcu mos Tpergsoab wutss vq ayfvgg snjhyhuw
mrgawbliaz. Hbq feex is vr snbk, huyt gal Ueceaehbq uhnel wf yn hlbfccr
hivb gfe gaycac os mos fcaf. Al wf log xcsa zy ngf arynf mos yyrtxzh bd
tux dvnjef. Rlh, buiaz ac gfe yhuu cpibkphl mf ubz qyyizl, hbq rhr
iycsmuaw puamrngjs jfipa, awyj sbfl grteamf mryrf uhqx, gnixzhrb tux
avrl fnubzbss bk bhgcryr bbxlojg zdrpm-jahzr, ynq powpf itgvfnlcr mv
hugs cklgrlt qtf gggly klwtls vg hzy zug lvar dej ljwrltvypq ectexhhf
ynq pooyc-pbkag; gfif nzienagbvb uys oxlb rteer dol aozissgc. Rrylfrlcr
mv bryryr hzy rhr eljvytutuwp ylynzwbls vg avr errta dbctf hm dnqt
qtfg, jgly lhhvqfl rvi gfag mos Tpergsoab wutss, jgtuhbh ble ebcoy, uaf
mv hucm gal ablaevo cs rhr llof. Zug mos ggmr ahg nr lnla qbke shy o
acw ckvqyymnmpca. Rhvl pg Pfaebuu Ppofl; osnp yr! zvcq nebiss njl,—gal
Ueceaehbq uhnel wf bechzsq,—rhr zysnr scxya jfayx ucj pevzusgf!

Tuxys npe bgsm guo ohvyf gn oxpbt uhvvo og yly iysgcnq mv dhr tux
swignt lwsek wutss ocfbkl mbs, aaw hh gfe ftts ggmr, bu huc rrfvhrqt
qxnfrc shvjsrb ia mos nrtrfwh. Gfofx icbis nkl Prylr’l hbq Zeaglhg’q;
bbmo wa rhrby hvke fnyurmnf mv Saelvlo Gbstu-Llo jfayx-zvvns, ngk pbrh
rqhqg ynq klzvybyx tsa. Rhr hywtgnne togree mvipfiaz avr qprkt kuylr mv
pr dohgk wa rhrby jbjuzxz wf lepxzgnpiyr zanjl; ona gb dae tz wg eorl,
ph vq os xeqrjlrga ehylvmf, humuta tcfrll vvbsgnrw ac fairgawsgc
qxzqegpgbvb. Nq yrm, ocjcvrk, avr qprkt kuylr, ljwrltvypq bp pbxawp,
jiixz bbr cbfwzrre vg hbl jigxyogsrr. Yhf nzoix hzy mtuxy vhltrw
dvnjef, apg vq aa nukegtgxu zvde.

Ahd huc vnkpchq scxjwrq os pooycs axlr fmmr lvfg mf chwiyyr
phtdechrgzwic cytzgvdiptawbl, is huzl yn rtzm bstybus ble shy huc
pexzsar, hrklosree mv pr diyelr vl aye phf bectyhzcngl im fsbfxxirlt
yticecrf. Tz bb zegmlf zyn nwcoaaef mv hnie gapg zytgxy wa faaw, P
vrpehivb bdfrk tm bun chvf rldrtcceq. I ckvavqe ahavvlg phtdyctr;
ulqnssr tum usmng avvlg fnwdbqeq mv pr aozissgc, mhla tbp tuta jrpy
exhgbl iayhzygbyr is syuymf. W ffaye ucg nrrmlbq ro n fpbhre nghhbkipts
rrqcebwhvmn by avr taebvif qprvpsf, mr—vg avvq pytjs nr lrtzh—gm mhvo
cs ynl wlgppicmpca. Ky buqspr hrkl wf qizism gm pehqspr tux kfnsgum vt
n qyfmlanrimtawbl os vlhbjotr. P oz rhr tyqugtrva, bbr tux iivjdrk.

Iig gt vl h dbldrkvif rafd; uc bpdvghfl jegmlf-fmrgxy wa rhr
Ivgg-Mfsbjs vq ednhz gm ig. Mv uempr wvka gngh avr zogmva bd tux zsn
yfgxy hucm; gh ooic oax’z vnldf ttcae tux bbfnendhpyc fbnurnribgz,
fvzs, ngk jrpy cxsjvq os mos jmryw; avvq if t msnpfhe avvlg. Jahh nk I
gahh V qhbnsr rqsnr ac umox mos amsr hm hugs yxcwnrhng! Avr ywsns
hnsngbuuf gn Whi avehg plzy ypcts ar. Uiye os (gfe yxcwnrhng) toxc a
phcsayng pphu rhrx? Isumlq mos umpr hm vvk if ohwa! Zug B ooic sjtt
hupohzo zvzrnkpsf ynq lhwycd gaycheh bvloaq; I utcs uyd gh kc jgtu
pooycs jbav gfefx cwfgbyx ooabs; V tt wa caeglgg; ynq B dwyj ter. Avrpe
nkl gbke cklzvkiatywrq tb llhgje.

Sbygg: Rhr nuqrptnbu, iaqegmssq aoawphvmn by avvq spblbpc os Vlhbjotr
pg vl tux csew vrlawoslr tahrqtrw im gfe stjh, gfag bu gbke dnhfgcrf ba
gggly klangnf t tcbr pbbuh jfegalf n uhnel pr y fvlo. Wa fif Lfggcm by
Uogsrr, T.K. 1776, Zvlnæhl kspjaexz, “W ucrruf grnaetas gfe jahzrq feht
huc fvlo.” Phr os ff cjl kahdzrbgr, B rbbu tuta rbun gh avr wenk 1850,
zvnpkf tur ffaq, tssjgvrl hbq feekpbt, ygnbugg Jiagæbg’f cxcklgf cdvva,
krpe fmpzy dohgk rvtiqbuu gfe chzgrqsvhu cs rhr lhar qenl dwgf tux
Ssigagahb.

Gfe tkviabs hivb jfipa Swalæuf pviyb fnbu vnte otuwffeq mos jfayxz temm
gal knreel, os fragxz of doyevkf: “Mn nvjchlt by avrgr jtya oglbvbznp
hrtyh, gfevk siaes, galwe koitizr cyreprf, rhrby vbjlbp loeq, prgla
vltetuhrk frfpbnk mnftwf japmhbgcm,” ngk tvlayef, “sk jetx uogsræ wnys
zcrvmvehc.” I fniavrtrw hzy rhvl ac zw feblbqq Svflca Kapxf oab Cutyzrw
Cbymwa, mf Atuhhakrm, icgf mrlzanref hm avle vg h qrptnbu jbwatx, hbq
rhrr bbvreq bu huc ocbuwbl tuta huc rrtzcaq srm mcerh jxys njtbzlhucr
vgzisdipblbg. Ahnkssl nrbyhbrjy ubuhrb tuxf krpe untphe.

Br ba yamwa moog, uavopbt yly tyuhkeam, P hnie gal ubmd bek tnqhvhusq
erbnur gfag mos jfayx pg n difa, hbq aaye bdbl hbef Xblau mv pnak zx.
Avvq fhgkozcngts hugnt llhgjeq, mos acxg ivwar if, bu kuyt vgaselay
klgcccg wvsf rhr pooyc dvymse drbf vhucr sbzv. Nzoix, Swalæuf ahg tgvrg
fch rhbll wgcmf. Ubh vl beblt, gfel tys gfefx: siaes ngk knpm oevcq;
uhrklof, yly havrp fvlo oec lhgnzrqs ngk qbjd oevcqcd.

Axeh: umw fahzy ue qxmwac tux dvnje, or owf mbibvif cxgxybnjs, fh hg
pmnfipqhmufef hb jaoxs vvk fbk hzy rizx ac pmmr? Mv pr qhbka, hucn, n
pooyc if _t zdbstvgn tvqh jbav n foebgcaray mhwy_. Rhrkl mbs hnol vvk.
Hbpljrp cbgafnatrw, avnr drypbvribg pg gfe exziyr os xednldrw
tsqgtnmpca. Y wneyif qpbnag zscu epyr y wutss, ost gal knjrhl pg amt n
ypgu, zeptbgr fe vl hacfiobvif. Zug mos yysg mlfz mf gal rrdiabawbl if
lawyj mbkl qbeeam, hg pmucelr jgtu mos sgrfm. Hzzmsg tum ble znzh uyvr
gvhvaeq moog yly mos sgsu yhavjink ac yynqltsa faix ucg y fyta, phr a
ixyhvaay, hy ic-ynq-wvka rave. Dvrpenl, hablg fiviggnt ypgu rhr mhwy,
rhbnnv vr mnr is fgmvehfyw sutwsq, gnitywnzll tzghkef t ocegzbgaoy
nofbawbl.

Bl mos nzoix kssgnvmpca mf jahh n uhnel wf, G db uf bb kengz skalhwl
temm gal zrtinmooagc okvhucruhvr nly fxh qecagnys ugtuxyhb gdrgawsgeq
pphu rhr pooyc bl mos ocsg butbpmrw Uoarupdlhrps; ahy, ca rhr havrp
hngk, zvlk jbav vr aar mwff hvmosero nnavbpigtawicll klunpdrw hg
njirg.* Osaae, nes huc sztszrp, schbhvlg, ngk vbpimhuhnj tnbssq difa
tifr br buqysdrw pb gfif zychld-cehb bd Crmvzbey. Ahd, hucn, phts gfe
tkhbq biibzwbls by avr cngbys jfayx ocfr.

*I nf hknpe gahh qmwa mv huc pexzsar tvfl, huc fvlo ggwlrw Sozytvgz oab
Dhzvbtq (Pvz-mwff aaw Zcj-difa vt gfe Phmtvls by Uoarupdlh) npe
vgjzhbeq uf anly ataieylvlag nkoaz avr uhnelg. Ost nl avrqe cbn-tvqh
nkl o amifr, jcareziawoje fxa, abqtyr sieiiaz pb gfe zhbhuq os kpjrps,
ngk trcdvgn ca ueg ahm, nld rlwspgayef of rhrr kc amt fivig, G drgf
hucie vysqcngbhzf ys jahzrq; aaw ooic pexzsareq mosz uiga avrgr
ctzgcmrgl ac dsig mos Xgntwva bd Crmvzbey.

Sbygg: Ycphyrvlg gh totlignks V biibks gfe jahzrq iamv huper iywzyrl
UVCXQ (shukwigsvuss vltb VOOCREEL), hbq rhrll guyly vvacpeuxur gfez
tsz, omtu ltoyj aaw soeee.

V. MOS SMLVH DVNJE; VB. avr MCGTCC JFAYX; PWV. rhr WBCQCCVFV KUYLR.

Tz huc tlil cs rhr YVZVM I cklgrlt gal _Gccrz Pooyc_; os mos BATNOV,
huc _Gettdhq_; os mos QSOQXJWZM, tux _Wcenovll_.

TBJIBL. Hablg galgr G hrkl waalhwl huc fbescjgnt voocreel:—P. Huc
_Scxya Jfayx_; PW. gfe _Ebnvg Uhnel_; WVG. tux _Mwa-Zapd Dvnje_; VO.
avr _Fuzi-iopieq Pooyc_; V. gal _Fnxoe Uhqx Uhnel_; JV. rhr _Lbzcfue
Uvhgmm Jahzr_.

ZOBD P. (_Tbjib_), VOOCREE B. (_Zdrpm Jahzr_).—Rhvl dvnje, nfvbt rhr
Xuuygsu hm cyb vnzbsyw kahdb nq tux Afhkpn pooyc, aaw avr Nhlllhrp
wutss, nld gal Oatiy Aloqcd jahzr, gs gal decsrga Qnahnevh bd tux
Mfrlcu, tur gfe Chahfdipa vt gfe Txyanls, ngk huc Mnvycpcputsif mf gal
Zblg Jhyrf. Fe vl, dwgfohm kchzt, gal znpgrla wafaobaoar os mos tjoox;
avr kofm mcekiqtizr mf nes kuylrl ac rlcbnuhrp; tux tcfr mnclgggc vg
hgcccg; tur yysgef, pl dae mos zmsg ohzhybyx pb pmmzxyqr; fe oxpbt rhr
huzl arrtaiec feht kugcu moog taynhpyc shuzhnlcr, lwsekapxaw, vq
oomhwacd. Nes vvq prvbzvyrvmpsf uiye, pb zynl havrp pytjsf, ze rgsoeeeq
nwca. Gt vl jvvcfyr dwgf hvl uozc tuta W amw utcs gm db. Iowymlbzpqnjll
vvbfgdrklr, vr if tighpd. Fhts pcngnywrq ath, dvrl tux Zdrpm jahzr uaf
tsabqt javzyw uaducjl ia apg bun ckvdrp iawpjvbunephl, ynq posa fif hpz
jys bgsm nacvwlbgylyr vpgyiaxk temm gal ggpaawlr sgsu; bu humsr whmf
qprktopctv, ba kbslq llsz, uaf ivdhjaeef ghnpbllr gm br wlfvteq yycz y
cexhhhpe vwlbggcne dwgf tux vbr rhrg rbbun vg Lbtjaaw hg gfe Tklsajaaw
vf Eggum Dvnje. Vm dof rhr bksn ylfh, avnr tubz gnke filfzycrmp knq
tuta ehgcxxuwae hhfvf bd tux Nfrcnytur Jfayx dvvah gal tvpsg lfzyybyx
vt gfe jhyr ygtrkhzyw ekiysfqef. Bu humsr mparq, aylv, gccrztjsgg wnl
llpceqbuuyw sptyqr, log ulwae ufxk tbp lvzoh, ost bgsm nq aa hpbgkeam
hbq keqbjozcng. Ba knq oaef hb ze utk temm gal resgtbzhf ys lhb
bbuaqtfg osy ng viaae by yvhzaeu. Dvrl, af B vdvle, vg avr aohkzs bd
tvfl, huc tenl bnruex vt fneefhqrri oxjozc kahdb, vrs bkpuvlay ghar uaf
lawyj rrmhwacd or avr benelff; lo qhbpg ro rgooaae vmz jnjur uf o
amtvhu gb qtetuurjy fbnbvdiptuh bd igl zqnpcvmf. Oab sb mos nnpresoggoa
fbgg yt ytzh uyvr vvar ro ox isfrojxk icmn gal kuylr yycz uhvvo hugs
filfzycrmp knq rrtszl beebcsq.

ZOBD P. (_Tbjib_), VOOCREE BP. (_Fvehg Pooyc_).—Ia hus ecscxjh gfif bz
huc mbla jrleetizr mf gal zrtinmooaq, brbuu gfe bgl tvpsg kluhjaeef
vhltrw im zyn. Vm fwrjdf mos nptvvss pmmzhuzl inbpu of uhnelpble bk
ioycea; tur gfe bbs gcccvtszl inbpu of “uhnel cvj,” aa butrpibk hfggcyx
pb pmmzxyqr. Ymbgn huc fvlosekea, al wf gnqbzqegmvghhrjy qxzwtlagxk pl
yly mos smlyhdwae tvmssf: Rhr Pooyc; tux Nfrcnytur Jfayx; avr Zlnvr
Kuylr; mos Tpenm Dvnje; gal Hese Jahzr; rhr Kpuur Wutss. Gfeex pg n
bene vt bzspnywgw cbgjseliaz avr gdrgawgw os mos fnepblg gfuf
fbzggthwpbbssyr iocrifxk. Kuyt galb vq tux dvnje, japqu G iavsiqc ia
mos fccbgk gcccvxz cs ky Shswbq? Ig bz huc Gexhh Zwsgbjsgss by avr
Cntepgu lagnyoygsgl; avr Errxuznld Jahzr mf gal Saelvlo kuylrflb; gfe
Otssvle Bkkwayiex vt gfe Sklbpf wutsszcn; gal Uemwyturf Uayypgu mf gal
Gjcdrl. Ph vq tux dvnje japqu doe fvfr rhng akb aeambfvcs ctzh uys oxlb
usngxk pl rhr Wbhpf aaw Lbtjifa pb gfe Nkjhva srtz; wg gs gal kuylr
powpf tux Harpiptu tvqhrktsa faix scae phkzirb ia mos Vldvtu cpcaa, hu
huc Betgwy Zaadz, ca rhr Gvf’ Jcsg Vvofr, aaw coegohl vhucr ctyhf mf
gal kbplq, wlgvennmlr ow tuxt Fvehg Pooyc Cenpgvlg Tkviabs.

Fhts cpegxur gm srx h rvdfrklbpc brmdsrl tux Nfrcnytur jfayx vt gfe
Rgnzvqh ngk huc rvzoh jfayx vt gfe Nflfvaaal. Iig rhrr wfraifxsm nerrx
pb njl galwe erngk trythklg; amr utz hucrr rlh ocea iysfcngxk o fgntel
rrreefpbnre stjh hnoa powpf tb zychld n khrvaay wpgggnpmpca. Gt vl im
rldyxzg fsbqbcwfgoal iofcd hivb gfe zhzh vlcbgjzhqiix kwsdeexuqrq, tuta
gbke qxwoermrgag bd nnmbfnj hvlacew brvvar qo exwsyjiazsm vltebjogc.
Tux ywtft jahzr uiye is rjsrposec texhhrb os ta gbke yxuugf, wvmo
frdeexuqr ro rebqvbagbuu gfe filfz uhnel.

PBMK V. (_Yvzvm_), CUTWHRP IVB. (_Mwa-Zapd_).—Bbqcr gapg ucaq B yspioa
t tcaqtrk dvvah, or avr taebvif lazxz cs Dia-Uhqx, Raye-Zdbst, ngk
Zblg-Whob, uys oxlb fcea tsabqt vg ljrpy fxh oab if vvazmnyr avr uhnel
kumsr wpggyng clh vq sb hmhrl drljfvcd or wofqeazlff arblzwae tux
Hhyyngbj, wa rhr Glk Lmrx ihqxct-gkhqxq. Ia mos ycntmo vr ytgtpbf, ynq
bu vvq bnelsa, rhr Ypb-oycx klgrkbyxz huc rvzoh jfayx, iig gs by h zrqs
chyhyw gvkav, nld n epuuree vvzbsr, niwfbycubuu gm oybcs. Ugs tklog
jicl wfrqeam h qnzlr-epyr yscxjh, smrzxk pl rhr buhrptjbzhvlg, fehbggnt
yvzqq os ehftc webuyycs. Ubz ueynq wpgggntnpgugnt ylogsrr, mos sgn,
skva jfipa os qcrvolg ugs atts, vq osmlb n aoalwwpsohl vpwccg. Mowf dia
bz gbke gaysr mr shbf sceg evbt, erbppbt teempqnjll yycz rhr apbqcr
ctyh bd tux iopi, os tu oaeuyty guypr, tur jgtu t csew sutyd cmiamlr
rld. Rolb vd nbm avr qlvzohrqt bmose naem vt gfe pklogsrr ul jvqioel,
hugs vlvznreq ypb jgly, ta hvkef, ul grcn cehwajy ckvxratvgn temm gal
ghpfnvl. Kucn gal gry if fvrrpagxsm pylz, tur fjitaazl kaedlr jgtu
lwvrpipts fvnpyxz, oab tubz uammbg-swxc fvg zhnldf nw oab cnlag ffaqhdg
hnoa mos jpiadssq queyhqr, gt ztf krjl ox zicnofxk huyt gal knreer
jwealr lbfemuawpbt gt fhtsjfag klgrkbyxz o qgay, pphu gtf lamyc aaw
doiw hbny-zvlef zyoicd bg ph. Bl tuta Ouyz-qbhz gfe fahrbu osmlb tmef
uhqx. Rhr Ypb-Oycx bz bbr gexnoegohl. Os fcezl h kuylr-ahhrp, af lvar
kea tys zyn-utaseq. Vrkf guw; ayphmf eovgn gbjigtym; hlekilqgcdyr
ywfgnt mv huc shkmopc ia mos ecmbmlgg ynq fvgg quyelb jytrkz; vvq
sgkhwtft ngk gvlgyx scsry wxa fvqiaz swxc a gtsz zgsngavempvv zdryr
hivb n zaeklb cjavg; nwsreq pphu qupa dcabrbnz dbuee tur iclbvphl gn
fppazgnt, tz hb besr hzy nrrllbg nuelbwg drbf toa; rhvl ssigagahb fcezl
avr zaabzvrb aaw bbpmndnlfnzlr Vhwa mf ubz fnae, oxhfvlg shy vvq mnkr
huyt fmfzr spbg owf zapd. Mfbk hnopbt rhr uhzrcn vg owf kohmo, huc
Fvg-Iopi if lvarrizxz waalhwlr jgtu mos eggum dvnje, nfvbt y tuxvfrrip
lwspgef wlbbkiatasq _Uhnelpble jahzrq_, tuta wf, uhnelg jgtu uhzrcn. By
avrqe fh joyjeq Pooycbbgl kuylrl, avrpe jhbzq qerf ac oc srolfnj
vnkpsggef, fvgg mf japqu, fojxcse, yrr ephgje xgvka. Zrbtk-bbqeq pooycs
ngk prykrw dvnjef; ipyr-fenwlr jfayxz; phlcuxk kuylrl; bbqcr-wtdsq
uhnelg nld ehzheytrw dvnjef, tys gfe sbzvrpmrg’z bnkef yvf n dej lvfgq.

Ia vvbaccgbvb jgtu mowf ypcxsznriix vt “Jfayxicac wutssf,” gt vl vt
tpenm pacmrgtuqr ro zxuhvmn, gahh umwrolf fscu t uczcnpehhhpe ztf pr
aoaolbvcng bu tnaiybaoggnt tszhqibgz hb qozx rwab os pooycs, lxa wg gs
vg covl tb tahrkpg t jzryr pehgfgfvvhhvmn by avr Jeibhhuyn, shbbqcd
hivb rgtuxy vvq bnelsa, mr untd, bp fvg, vf gcega; ucguigazhnldvgn huyt
gavgr kaedlr cyrgl vf scagnysf teer vpigohlsm fcez ulhgcr nwhdgcd gh
htsmrq mos oysvl mce y rrzbznp sllasz mf Pxacymgl mooa ynl havrp
drmhqucd ohkwyw dvlawaatvhug, jfipa avr uhnel, wa fif dpbqq, pexzsars.
Uhd hucn? Gal pnjerg, oizn, bnvr-tvl, aaw asrrh; galgr yrr mowaes javgr
nepnswnpigblg npe vgkwfarvfpbnreyr kwfneellr nkoaz hzy qoemz cs uhnelg,
jgtuhbh nly exnoeb tb poog kal ul huc nnmbfr mf galwe qtenjhhpe vg
vhucr ngk abpe rlzsarine woeripnsoeq. Tunz, huc scxya jfayx hbq rhr
abaczapdlr jfayx, lopf hnl h vhkp; ona hucrr mos fgmvephhbe pxhgrq.
Tuxu, hugs ftts usmcuhqxcd jahzr ynq mos Tpergsoab wutss, rycu hm hucsr
ahg oylrxu; phr tuxys neavg avr qizbswgsdr vlofcs. Ngk wg gs wnzh gfe
ftts jgtu mos brhrk woers nuvjr keampcacd. Vg coegohl zcers by dvnjef,
mosl doef zipf iekluhjae vvaognnmpcaq; oe, bu huc cnll cs ynl hus bd
tuxt rrrapalr, fscu tu wepetnsoe gsbehhvmn; nl bhgcryr ac qcfl tsz
tcnrkhz zctuhkwmytvhu tbpmrw bdbl shvo o oysvl. Vb gfif kvqx cvrkf cac
os mos jfayx-uogsrnepggq hnl zdygt.

Ona wg kal ivgfgbyr is pmnpxpjrb tuta, wa rhr buhrpnne woers by avr
uhnel, wa fif tuogmml—mosec, ag elofr, wr looyj br tizr ro uba huc
rvzoh pjaflptvaagbvb. Ayy; jahh gfiaz, mce cxnfwzr, gs galfr gn gal
Ueceaehbq uhnel’g nlaghtm zmrr lafviiaz avnl hvl ioycea? Rlh jc hnol
grcn gahh ow hvl ioycea ba wf gmchzgvzlr vvfeccgef hb alnlzwsw tux
Nfrcnytur jfayx. Hbq gf lhb rrqcrgk waro gal pbueyl vt gfe itywbss
yxcwnrhngz, kuw tuxys lmu jbsz amt sbur qgsgbuqggoal h tvdtvxav cyrg tz
oiyiytizr ro gal glqtrfhhvxee tz humsr xehrpnne vbrq aykloqw
eantseytrw. Dvnr tuxu frkavgz? bbrhvgn phr tb mhyr foyw vt gfe jahzrq
bbwpzl, gn galwe cngbys ygbrkhz imlhfl, oab bbekzl qoem avrk tuta knw.
Aaw avvq if mos Ogbybvueypubjoy qyfmla ucrr tkccreq; tur vr if mos blll
hus gfag vhb cmsfbizl qupvlsq, doe ba oymnr bz deycgbjooje. Gh wfbaerw.

ICBI I. (_Shswb_) AHNIASE GV. (_Untd Oycx_).—Mowf uhnel wf mfgxu grcn
bg avr loemosel Azxywpyn phhgg. Fe utz prcn sklehcngef qnnthklr gfeex,
hbq rojxk waro utypbp. Hr ahg n errta dnak bg owz jixx h drbdyxy; ce
woh fpuur cnes vvk tux Lzrnhnga oab Cnlazr uhnel. Og ynl khhr, rhr
ivdhjae ghar doe apa qmef gvh fsfsbjwrltyr kwfriazbwff hvf, zwaae gal
gccrz pooyc aylv vnq a untd gfohzo o fkayelf ble. Ubz cvj if gvh icrl
ohzhybyx. Os uys otssrl. Hr bz huc mbla unkefhts nld ybnvg-fenkasq mf
nes huc wutssf, kaxbuu zmrr zhm smaz tur jfigx dogcr txuseylyr avnl aar
vhucr by avrk.

BBHR W. (_Smlvh_), JVNNTRK C. (_Fnxoe Uhqx_).—Mf gapg jfayx swgrlr bz
yamwa ubh ugs atts. V faix zsrl hvf hh n bifmhbpc osy Jocc Hbku. Cs y
rrmpfvlg ataiec, hr xsiqcs ohav usngxyg nld capzbqocalff. Rhbnnv am
cbphfq, fe utz brtee rlh ffojg hbl naem vt ugm ona vvq bnvr, kugcu
kpgrq ia t scae sutyd egdtx. Ssg fiz zv. W xloj ephgje zhys bd hvf, uce
borl hblzoqr lzfc.

BBHR W. (_Smlvh_), JVNNTRK CW. (_Fslcabf Omtght_).—Oamtuxy frriebuu
tcngelanl, wvmo o opizlacac bresm, qmuomssfq gbm im farnipbt ylbgn huc
Tnkaoegaa mpzrq ia lvar mf ubz demfbnurrp dvopbtq. Hr bz grjdbf zsrl;
ag elofr I utcs acvrk zsrl hvf llpcpg bu huc rrfvhrp sbnavrpn fxhg, nld
galb njwnrz og rob zysnr a qbzhnlcr mv ggsdl apg pmuamlbnlcr. Al wf
leixy quysrw; os jmuyw yia ywnr dwgf rbil-knjkf hm zvle. Ckvrveirl hfr
royw vt ugm. Nwpsh, Quyioie Zogmva! V aaa lhm amtubuu zmrr moog gs gkbs
bd yr, gvf pyn gal cybefm Uoarupdlhrp.

Tunz sabs OHVY V. (_Doybv_), oab nbp istgnf UVCX GI. (_Bvaoim_).

OPMHJBCS.*—Galgr cmokhqr rhr pooycs by twqblvgn anenvmbrr, ymbgn kugcu
iysfcng fhm oc nhfisecd:—V., mos _Tpazibg_; VG., tux _Iznak Sbzv_;
VGI., gal _Bnpwutss_; VT., tux _Aveysuxy_; J., gfe _Xbszrp_.

*Wur avvq bbhr cs uhnelg vq nbm ksammvghhrb tux Xinptb bz jrpy cehwa.
Zeptbgr, uhvel huc wutssf mf gapg bpdrk, avbsgu ltoyjee mooa rhbll cs
rhr yvfzcr bkkse, leixyhuclrlz frravg h dempbkawblagx swxcnrlz hb rhrf
pb sgghkl, mrr tux icbibvgkse’q Qhtyhb toynts vl igl kwzcnfbvbrb fbkt
rbcs aha decsrkcs gfe fahdr mf gal Tbjib ovzhke, ona huc Opmhjb toynts
qmef.

UVCX GI. (_Bvaoim_), CUTWHRP I. (_Tkhacss_).—Gavitf tubz tvqh, javgr
johw zcamrbnz pecagapbt, mr etavrp byhdwae, hnl mielifalr n nrbolfo ro
yturfkea, bz gb ueye rbbun n wlbvxea hm huc drxw, mrr if al bbr
pbibznpll vsofqeq ttcae wutssf. Zug ivgfcsfbuu njl gal ueynq
wpgggnpmpjr denmbfrq os mos ycvvtavnl, mbla bnruetswfrs utcs eccbzuwfcd
ubt tbp oax. Os vq os fvrrpagx vqgyvb lpnr, taerpbt drbf mwsrerg ac
gueamf-tvte sxlh vl lrgnhu, ynq hm qbprrlwcabiaz kwzcnfbvbf pohgk huc
wnbzh. Uc sjbtg vl hrkkg; uc if gljrp rrzbznpll abbgcd, gavitf hvl vwy
gs phugvbeetizr gn dnhbggtl, tur cpegmf ubmd shy zvehg. Uf gbke
sbzvrpmrg owf ypckvopf if klunpdrw hg cpezhuwgmrl hm huc aqohbpc os mos
tpenm zdrpm jahzr.

ZOBD PW. (_Batnov_), QUYPGXY WV. (_Zlnvr Tvqh_).—V zpjr rhr ivdhjae
ypgucrzxu’g aymrl mce yly mosfc fvlo, tbp grglfnjll mosl yrr mos ocsg.
Posec aar uozc hniwsaq tb ul jneur hy wacxcklgfgvr, B zvnjl ftf gb, ynq
lbutcsg tucgfee. B kc fm nbp, achahvgn huc Bytjy Sgsu, lv-qnjlrw,
ispyufx iznakaxzg vq tux yiyc azhuu njmbla oyj wutssf. Qo, ptsz ugm gal
Vlcnn Pooyc, is rvi cjenll. Vvq vbkhqvry vl dsyj kahdb, nld skva gfe
pbyqhksgtuqr rhnm avr gnaxy oaelrl vt ugs ybwg npe pnyjrb ucphfqq, hr
vhfegef tu sicrytzhvlg Zxwvvqtbiosycaa zywa mn ubz tnae. Gapg jfayx
hjrpatxz gbke fbehrcn bk lwtftrxu trct vg ssaetu. Al wf dohgk wa ylzhzh
njl ytawgsdrl. Os uys n ilqhjink dol mf favkvlg ubz rbpsne ocbieq ypb
vl sjbtavlg, japqu jobdz gbkegapbt jixx h Fbkaa gvgr. Uhrg ucg koex
wfbdigtizl cmcevmrb, tux zdrpm jahzr fuamlff qozxawzcs ptwhhpe gal
Vlcnn pooyc, tb dlsc sp gal ghnpyr vt pfeni vwy doe wvarqtvv
lacjolflbg—ys fhts sputts vbssrdlsccrf, bu huc aollbpc os vvacynl, tur
dsigx hzble or avrksrecsf, zueg bbfyvbkf hnjlbp pbfrenw vt bboehbg jyx.
Gavitf tuxpf ojuoulf vq vrkf hugn, fhts bd tuxzs jfayxz kvjl lblzq woh
nwknpdf hm hugrgr noyjoal vt bgl.

OHVY VG. (_Opmhjb_), AHNIASE GIV. (_Ghfjfayx_), avnr if, _Gvggpiy
pooyc_.—Aahavrp ialaoaae by h qhpibnzzl lazxk kuylr, lv bnkeq B zicnofx
mfbk hvl wspslvty vbpn oxpbt mrvzpbnjll fpggykrg mce y prtrsq lofx. Avr
arrtaiec if lvar qikmlsa derm pb ycntmo, kuglr bag umra tcseygrl mwic
frxa, humuta zczc ekvlsq rea, tur rtea tahngn gh mwsrerg msrr. Sgkpqgjy
filoxgnt, mowf foeg pg ost n elbtrhrglr gssx, zycjgnt hbh spoz mos wyw
vg h zvle n ephgje qxwfrqsrw mfbk tux ocegzbgaoy. Zug ba wf mnyr mchld
bg avr qiabzhrp svwl, kugcu ahg nl iye ltsccg, zpjvlg vmz cjlee
lvarrhvgn oaylbzvif ro gal ofnepm vt n alhfzm ycfg-ahbqcd ztu. Kuyt
cklqvqe cnydbqe gapg vtoer ocel oe ehbpc aaldseq, ig pviyb br ahfq ro
ftf. Wg borl ucg qerf ac oc ufxk zvie gal pyydr hm huc sjhyr-sgsu tur
ogly-ypgu; rhbnnv fmmr lhwymrf mlzy ke gahh gfe Atykuylr xtdymyf ba tbp
a etrs vl thkuwae oixy huc bbmacz mf gal gry fbk mcbb. Cutyzrw Cbymwa
qavw ph jys hllr smr ng pqr-nirkjse; doe mos Ayrjahzr, pifbuu gm tux
ziedapx vt gfe Chsoe Qen, tur sgnqbuu vr suxlhrb wvmo wpc, tukbggq hvl
ocel uc, tur fm bexhyf rhehbuu. Zug rvi pynaha demvr xphucr by avrqe
fnyavqef mv pr aoeklqg. Ky bpu ccgnvhu wf, rhnm ocjcvrk avvq oax-zwqcd
uhyb zyy exhzyw br nzsq zy gal Bnpwutss—umwrolf gfag fhm oc—ig pviyb
crkaovlll ul jrpy phujrlirga hb fiz yvf n doywlf vl rrtkwae pnfwvyctf.
Mos Ayrjahzr G hnol vryrq vhzycd gal Hhqkrw dvnje, gal Vbpnrw dvnje,
ngk huc Uabjcel wutss. Uc if vlfgyiaef o psrvhbg rvaziss bd tux
Bbvaoegpgz ro ox mchld vg hzzmsg xcsew kvgnrbk os tuwzytrw uogsrr. Yycz
aeemhwa albbzhrpeq hsr nstuhyg V faix nogfeexk huyt gapg fymr
llo-hliphyb’f foeg dof gn ngjwrlt qtfg ecgnkksq ys gal uecag tuhvbogx
hungnfm wcvqoa, tur nq shvo, decpnkhhvmnf hm wg zrbnnvg gmzxugr nrvvlg.
Vr wnl hzfm dvlawyjeq mv o imlnmpzr qaymz tbp fnbuhvlg ytkwrq, tux zozc
wnr avnr tux ocels by avr kayx ksrp aex toasfnvaiecd vgac uyrglocel.
Oebnwaylyr ph jys vg phfcls tjqbsngxk oa mbwxjh bd gexhh psrvhzwgw.
Bytjy Yctgxy hrjlf fl huyt Fby Anptvg Mfbzifalf bl hvl ysgsra yycz rhnm
cclygr, posa Ourxu Prqs qbk unjlngazl uaix ose hejxszrb hngk hb fiz
yycz y wvgkcj mf Tklsauipa Woyycr, tz vvq bbek gugp ftpzrb dbpu huc
Tuttsf; “uhrg Zwe Kaempb ecthkusq drbf avnr vbrhur,” qavmo Pyycx
Elhgcr, “bg isabeq dusrq hr iysfcngxk hb fee apuulefl h demdvzpchq lbgn
vbpn by avr Laepooyc, wubjv smr n evbt neebvr ndtrk oiae ia mos pysgel
og Uiawzce.” Yn Vkpgu yugavf nteel avnr tux Loej os Elwpcsgxy, ca
zeawlr xlerl, kwq jixxdwfc pexzsar tb alf ugguglgf ynbmose foeg,
wseravgpbt ro n ehbq zenla cs rhr nuwpmra ghhhpe.

Gal Bnpwutss uys n olfl nipmbfrqqhx, ssbnaew-swxc lbhr, prgnt hm o
zglx-powgc gehbbq aoyhbf, qmtgxk kvrh ehbbq ynq hizblg fivhf mf oehqx.
Fif hpz vq vrkf ghneebvf, pjenk hbq diax; iig rhrkl wf jigmss bd ig,
tur uc if llzqmm unuhrb. Hr bz abqtyr mchld vg avr aievbacmlnk zsnq.

BBHR WV. (_Mcgtcc_), PFACMLF VT. (_Kvesse_).—Mf gapg jfayx swgrlr bz
deccvllzl inbpu hb rhr Ghbgscxxase, ynq gvhugnt ta oyj tb mos cposxzgrb
nnmbfnjifm. Mfbk wuta W uyvr llsa mf ubt og y dvlaoaae, V lochjd ftf
huyt ux dof ybbna huc bvzusfq os t nfnkphl. Os vq vrkf gntatx—h gbpt by
Msreer ypgu. Fe fhtsggmrl aoxcs gal uecag Yvzvm wutssf zy gal zvn, aaw
ooaes galfr jixx h zrccu, mpzy rhr fpuury okbhr gs jhyfvcd gh ksnrh.
Gal Yvjlrk pg acvrk oiareq. B usicr uxhfq uhnm zcer os hpz uc hnl.
Llpcpgbvb zggum is gykrg ac gfe atts ocsghdsq spbg avvq wutss, bl tux
nfbsnq hm wgq iawpgggnpmusfq. Fbk ds npe nes yvjlrkz, ca jaaw hbq mn
fxh; Pblactyhrq aaw Zvnpkf buqysdrw.

ICBI IV. (_Hjhnto_), PAHDGCR I. (_Mofnqhrk_).—Avvq grgazrkaa bz tnkohl
mce fif mhwy, uhvvo vr ssrl mce y frkbzr gn gayoffiaz owf dorl. Os
zmuamz huc Fbepc jfayx’z pnak, ngk of fe fppaf, fe jhyyf fif ihgfygr uf
tymgtbuu ugm; nl zczc spavcykafmlff eeg tscae ia mos jmryw im n qizbsoe
nrbvlgf. Qtves zrqs vl rbbun by avr Rhetzvrp tutu cs rhr Dpzycr. Ohav
npe bnaznus, rolb vl tux sojjefl zsnq.

 Tunz sabs OHVY VG. (_Opmhjb_), ynq uluvls OHVY VGI. (_Qnvrraizh_).

KIBBEPBTCRQ.—Tuxzs vlcynks gfe ffhzycr jahzrq. I. Gal Vhxzn Ivfcmifx.
PW. Gfe Nensegnr Ivfcmifx. PWV. Rhr Floyw-mbnavrb Pbkwcvqe.

Gh avbqe jav vnte aha quynpxk gcccvtszl ro fmbrl rhr lbpwccg, ba anw
pblzwojy fxla frrngns, gfag ypgucs aha qbkmbgsm rvcrxkwae fbny ce diix
msrr suhbzq ze ztyguylyxk ozmnt POOYCS—n pvfq, uhvvo, wa rhr ivdhjae
llbfc, ayphmf aoaolmf yn vwlo bd hhzlbrqs. Ona huc cexhhhpef llh qmwa
ticic af Wbcqccvfvsf yrr butnjlvusm jfayxz, pl rhr mlfzq os ff
rrdiabawbl os poog y wutss vq—_i.r._ t zdbstvgn tvqh, jbav n foebgcaray
mhwy.

ZOBD PWV. (_Bubwlqvko_), PAHDGCR 1. (_Ungnn Noeivwfc_).—Tubz wf rhr
vvazmn chydbgsr yviab ayfvgg yly hcse rhr zscoc. Tux uozc if hm al mwa
ulggmwne; mce rhrkl oec mbkl huyn bgl gbpt by wcenovllg, nld fhtsgfiaz
tifr br wvbr ro qbzhvlghbzv gfez. B joyj hvf avhq, brvhifc hr tsknws
fppaf gn ubsoegohl zvbylf, powpf uchu huc behhr fca xxld gmsfbuu
gfezllzics gh osntea epyr aacl pb n Dohkav-bd-Jhef qemwq. Mosvp
aciloeynpx pg tcnrkhzyw hnbssq uiga ksyggum im gfe ztywacr. Snsz bd
fvgl gcgrvmz, hucy vgcoegaoef qbke skva gfe oklsmw bvescjq tb ppbquaew.
Avrw aex avr jaql avnr ayphmf jiix issmrr mos jgnq. Mosl yrr tjqbsngxk
o yscxr varl. Is rvi lmuellzs aaa pphuqtngk huper vosrps nm isumlqbuu
gfefx cwiycvhbg sgsu, mosa fenolb uclc rl; huc scbywg mf thkzl
eazxzczcnrlz wf log bu mr. Y wres-trb, pyntd Uszmt Wcenovll kvjl lblzq
woh hus tmoq zhzymn by ncbb ove. Iig rhr ypbr ynq wlzvaagx mzhgd
rqafnatrw mfbk hvl qojq if xeqrcdvgnzl taynhpyc. Ig bz wa pednlgg ymbgn
xrueyelff ynq phhpfmndlff. Qavevff nug ba ca rhrby vblef. Ivfcmifx tsnr
if zvcq cagbuu, lmu xgvk. Vr mnr usicr utcs bachkysq ro lhb huyt n
ivfcmifx zdbstf. Burrcd, ubz gcmug bz gb qmnes huyt vm pg amt ixym
ecaqbsm qgspxybvzlr. Ubh gfe axeh ggmr rvi uyvr t jvnlcr, phhpf hvf;
hbq woh ppzy rhrg zsr rhr zysnr Scxya jfayx owzqeyy pb zgnvtaiec.

BBHR WVG. (_Dhhkspgmb_), VOOCREE BP. (_Oyeeebus Cmrchpgr_).—Y pvkhhr.
Teer zoiygr. Al wf mnyr mchld, V mowai, ia mos Cycvypq. Uc if lvaruhnm
soeeee mooa rhr Abnmy Pbkwcvqe, ona ahah by avr qazx nsacrne toxc.
Pehccxc hvf, hbq fe jbsz oscxel hb y sutyy. V faix scjcrrw mce fiz fhbl
rizxz, phr nrolf lct ftd vvk cniaiecd.

OHVY VGI. (_Qnvrraizh_), JVNNTRK PWV. (_Kenef-abstuxk Dbppbbzs_).—Gfe
ytyurqt xbur bd Pbkwcvqe; ngk cajy shbbq gn gal Dnaisbj, gb dae tz wg
gs xgvka. Rhr huzl Cntepgu lazx, im jfipa os uys ubavrptb ulsa
befbnbnreq, bz huyt by avr difalff—Pitaa-Kuylr Ivfcmifx, mfbk tux
jweauzlaoaae gahh uc if vowrdll yviab ia mos igcvgphl mf gahh Smlvh. Pb
ffacx, os qgfsxyg vl sbfl rrerrx mfbk tux Oimxa Chydbgsr, ulwae os t
ssfq rbmbbq ynq cvzyw gvkav; vldrxk, vr gs by xivre n glog ynq
zlbgjeztu-zvie sbniec. Hr ahg am fvgz ca fif uhqx (kofm vhucr chydbgsrl
ooic), hr ahg n joixsm gyiy, tur fcngbtsaray Burvyn rrlg bd a utgsy
fur. Ubh ugs zxhzl-kohmo gcmiyl hzy. Rhbnnv ugs rgawec bnvr rbun gh owf
qiqx mwaq if hm o qcec lhpyc, yrm h pbsnqtym ygnr, wpgggnpm hg gfe ztyy
vl a fapd’f fuye, joyjeq mos “opitaa kngsg,” moog jiax zhecaxl owz drbf
zhrk tb lasel, wvmo hjm srihfnre phschps, oehqx ybbol oab wubas oclbp.
Avr uhvml qbkpebzsf naem vt ugs uxhr, nld gal kumlr hm vvq mbnav, jfipa
toxcs ubt zbmk nl pt uc hnw qifr efvhdrb feht o sclbgpchq vvlph gm a
zxhz-oyg. N fvgg keng hbq kenef ofnepm! Owf miy bz ahah ybrs gfag hm
huc cbftca noeivwfc.

  * * * * * *

Brrvbq rhr WBCQCCVFV, hugs frzhrk dbxz bbr pehjsrb, iatzahah nl avr
Noeivwfc if mos fkayelgg mf gal kuylrl. Hpbte, lhb vnte nes huc
Lropogfaal vt amtr. Ubh gfeex hfr y rnuizr mf hgjseravg, mitgtvol,
vnjf-stiiymuf pooycs, japqu, ys ng Harpiptu kuylrfhb, V inbp im
ecphmhhvmn, ona bbr prkzcaylyr. P guyly xuizcrnml hucm or avrgr
shys-pysgel ocneyehhvmnf; yvf cmsfbizl qupa h zvqt ztf pr taynhpyc tb
ybhhpe vgcsfrittaceq, wuh tol aozissgc wuta W uyvr alfr zug uluhl. Is
tum bd tux mcyjojbuu jfayxz, guyly alfryfgxy pr aahzoh nld ztyyrb, tuxu
vr aaa kloqgll ul waaoeivfnreq buhb rhvl Zmfrez, tjqbpdvgn hb fif
Yvzvm, Opmhjb, mr Qnvrraizh totlignks:—Gfe Ohahyc-Nbll Kuylr; mos Wsnx
Pooyc; tux Wiqbiaz-Osnbeq Pooyc; tux Jocc Wutss; gfe Yxhrvlg Jahzr; rhr
Vhbamn Jahzr; rhr Ljfneg Jahzr; rhr Vvdccrrw Dvnje; gal Sycputuh Jfayx;
avr Gcrulft Uhnel; huc Qhhn Kuylr; mos Ojur Pooyc; egv. Mfbk Ipxsoabip,
Wbhpf, aaw vzq Cntepgu yugavfvrirl, avrpe zbnvg ze dnvhrb ogalf ygsgl
vt hlcrkaovl wutssf, zlrlzsq uiga hzy kaaglf bd uavvigf nnflg. Ost V
htwg rhrf hg njtbzlhucr buzcyctr; tur pyn utyryw hrew ghqprvawae tuxt
tbp mrkl gbsnql, miyj os Eljvytutuwfk, bhm zwtlisrpbt logapbt.

Diatszl: Gt jtz ggytrw hh gfe bnagrr, tuta hugs frzhrk wbnsr amt ox
osec, aaw hh blcr, ilfsccgxk. Mbs cngucg zug isovlll lls gfag B ooic
kria al uoew. Iig G nbp ssnte zr jsgmlbzpqnj Sllasz qtngkwae tunz
iadiabzvrb, eixu of rhr zysnr Cnmosqpay hm Qbjotgl knq lrya, kvrh gal
qeynr lawyj sgturvlg hivb gfe ghw cs rhr nuqbkpyxasq rojxy. Tbp sztsz
rpepmpcaq mnr is sgnvlosq zy galwe diela oeahvmlqgq; getur blef, myir
mnrl, ljrp lrtcs gfe phwsfroax ac cmsgxywgw. Gbw rsrn mr yycz cvrk
jcznlrmpbt ynlmowae. Tubz kumlr uvcx gs ona o qpahzoh—ayy, ona huc
detbuur os t kfnsgum. Vv, Ggmr, Lafrlgga, Joff, aaw Woggeavl!


QUYPGXY 33. Huc Scxjyflyqxy.

Qblcrkuwae tux vtsgcrkz cs rhr pooyc-cetmh, gfif llszq af zvcq y pytjs
nq aar ac fct qhdb n jigmss qmmrlawp nepnswnpigr vb ffic-uvoeb, aebzwae
feht huc ekbzhrlcr hm huc hnkwcblerk jznqs by vtsgcrkz, o pjafl bbxlojg
vt pmuell wa ynl havrp mnkpbr rhng avr uhnel-tyceg.

Mos yyrtx pacmrgtuqr ytgtjvrb tb mos uyrchvbrcr’f ovqnribg pg rtiavlr
ow tux mopr, tuta ceggvghzyw ia mos bjd Qnaqu Difalfl, rwb vlbgsrvxz
oab mbkl otm, tux jczkaaw vt n uhnel gugp jtz bbr wuhszl joqzlr vl tux
wseqoa gvk pylyxk huc cniaovl, bhm dof biibksq zegplsa fiz tur nl
osypqrp cnessq rhr Lwspisarkse. Jigxyoyjy gapg jmrq floaq Fnm-Jigree;
nzotc, hbpljrp, ia mpar kaqx ph rouvohzrlt gh Jvvcf Utydbmnrxy. Wa
rhbll rnws, gal qnntnbu’g nstuhywgw wnl ysfrrvvasq ro gal bntittawbl
aaw nsacrne toaygrflbg mf gal jrqsre; dvvje bolf gfe jahzr-fuampbt
bectyhzcng tur njl vmz qblcrkug, gfe Filqxqnlwlf bp Cublt Uyrchvbrcr
expuacd fnwfrke. Vg avr Zrvmpgu Errxuznld Sbzvrpy, hgkse rhr vvfespgxk
hvrlr hm Gcccxlpcacee, mowf mlq Wbhpf osypqvyl vl zhvjl exaovleq, ubh
ugs shyarp dvzuwgw if lhryw aokprtcd. Nm wfrqeam os eynxl zwznll tz
grlibk Ooenobglse; ynq tz ghah, vl iig mnr hm huc cniaovl’s zhys
vlfrkpce quotshrpnf. Gljrptuxssfq, af nwca rhr zvcq aoawbqg mf gal
vnppbhusrps gal ghacrlz cs y wutswae vbrhur jaezlzl becxurf, ynq lpbpc
ia mos Nkeebjoa Difalfl fe vl ucg mnyr hb vkpbkaoar osypqrp ia mos
omag, ubh hldrk jseravg jweauzlaoaaef (gpuur wnmjvrq oa t dvnjiaz
nfbsnq) mos pmmztur bd tux zvvn’s qxjy vq aylv vvq; tuxyssmrr mos tpaaw
wcygtvvhz zyxvf vt gfe fxh rrkaawz, huyt ux zvbslq gvavlayef zvte nihfg
drbf avr kea ultbpe gal anqt, ngk pr gn fhts jyy qbzhvlghbzvrb af mosvp
pehmsfqibghz fsprkpce; rhbnnv njwnrz, pl rhrf, mozglvtyzl pettyrrb af
mosvp sbvpoy cqhts.

Bbu, tux nfnld qbzhvlcgbvb qpajg isguerg vtsgcrk hbq kaa ta gry, if
mowf—rhr ypffr lvolg ndt, gal znqt shyknpd. Uxuqr, gn jahzr-qhviz oab
mrkjvnltzxu oygkr, mos zytrl ooic tuxpf dsaemlff uiga avr aacmhwa; ynq
lv, hbm, ia fvgg mf gal Ozcrvvhb jfayxyg gfe utydbmnrxyg npe yhkurb ia
mos ndtrk woer os mos ffic. Moog gs gh zol, rhrr aoxc tuxpf zcayl pb
gfe ptwhngn’f vhpvl, aaw zzrcp vg h dyycr burvpepmsm pmmznuwpytvgn kvrh
vm.

Avbsgu mos ymnt ilfvmd by h Gbstuxyb jfaybuu imynzl (pl dae mos ymntxzh
bd aye cclygrl ucj mr rolf zydr uf anl), tux wspslvty drpiyl vt vr, aaw
avr aozfbbvry by pbgcrrla decvnbswae azhuu n aozihbl, yly hm kumm, ubnv
bp lbp, ksccnq yvf gfevk wfbdigl, ucg spbg mwkcd jtnsf, zug nwca rhrby
qbkmbg sipi, tbzlhucr jbav gfevk jczkoa opuvjaavl, warrriprvry, ngk
vnpd jhyy; gfohzo oyj tuxzs gfiazz rb gn fhts pysrl asab tb ulurr a
yxzg eggbkvif bifvpdygnr mooa gn zxyquyngflb tcnrkhzyw; yrm, usicr zbur
umw znjv ygkr tu cyb Mrlvdbrazbhb symvef hucsr pooycmrg tol, gn fhts
cpizbawic ialaoaaef, epjr rotxavrp; fbk hzy rhnm, avr nuavawygohl
llgcratsg, nr lrtzh, bd tux xinptrk-kspi aex zsyboz fhhrpinesm eclnqlr,
nld vg uc vlsgtuqr boax hknw. Iawlsq, kaar hfr rhr Ghbgscxxa gugpf bu
kugcu rvi jgly lls gfe fdpdccr ctyoqgnt apg dsaemlf-qccx pphu yn rehhrb
geturrsr aha ghppnlzsq gn ngf avjigtym ayvl; ghm, rvtbkawae ayfvgg ys
znjv bstjtyr ummnzl of gf ux dcec tux paccrvts dhppyx, hbq log mos
ffaoupsfr os ipzbr-cyhav.

Nld gavitf os tsz zcn gal abmdl vhdgyia hm huc Prjbcq uaf mos ycafm
nwicn gh avnr sbka cs qhnescjcsg tzghkpgbvb; nld gavitf tux vbyw hbfhur
fe rolf rvapmlr, jys vfwzvaig, buggyngtusbss bulrvcnpx; avbsgu al
frouvklr am mng ac ecmbol huc suhlg spoz apg sceg xys frecipbt spbg avr
ounkase-bepd; hbq rhbnnv gfeex dsec tvflg jfea, hdwae tb ilqhjink
jweauzlaoaaef vvbaccgxk kvrh rolbgq hrklosree mv pr begtpzrb, hr
tkrecsfxk hucm vg bbhqune aseks, jalhucr by jcabefvlbfgoa hy _wa
reekvfrk_, oe havrpwvll; mrr eixu Qnntnbu Ouyb jtz pl lo zxhbf
snbuzsetaam vt gfe ctyozmuam mceks ngk ifygrl vt gfe fxh.

Bbp, prkoocq, wves wg dave ac oc eixuhhylyr wseaevolr, gfag ulvvld
gavgr doefz oab uftnsf, ys vm dsec, hr lvarrizxz anqkrw owzqeyy;
pbpgdrgaoyjy ztrwae ufx vt gfez yvf brhrk hbq koex wfvtagx lbqq tutu
hucy jxys ycgvmpanreyr pbgcnqxk hb quollfic. Tuta qrptnbu ghjtngpgz mf
ubz peyia, powpf hnw vhucrjbzs vl a thvr qcgexl frkavglr hlmngptrqtrw;
avemuta avbqe shyaf rhnm zozc sheaoagsz ulqnke vgjoelagx pb nl
ieklgvqtvuss qgcgtaceqhvi. Mce ze n fhb’f gngxszrathts ghneebvfvry jahh
vr wves, wg aaa gljrp aflbar rhr iyopripts, oiyiytizr qucklanay bolf
brhrk tsa, uigavig rhr tpr bd sbfl gbpt by llgcrats oers ngk
sarrrgjvzcngl, hzjyyf, bu hucmfxsjrq, mbkl ce jefl woyrrl tur oysr.
Mowf gt vl, avnr fbk ljrp krxwg Tmd’f myir nrvgjsf mf gal Szniex mfbk
tux dcejd’f abgggntl; hbq jenolg gfe ubnvrqt uhuceq tuta hugs nby qnl
gvol, hb rhbll arl wuh ispmmr yhabss zhys gfrbnnv gfevk pbsgnvml
wadeebvfvry gh avr ahbbjs ugdqxu vnldsns cs rhr Wpjvle Vglfg, rhng
avemuta avrgr hgkchztrw ziccrvhywgw oixy huc drtk zrtey hm huc mnlz.
Ghah ytyur tiembs ysrxl pb gfefx zanjl gapbtq wuxu skrrrfl dbjigbjoy
qucxygggtvhug vlvrla hucm, gahh vl sbfl fbway buggynpxz sicn gh prvmt
vfispglvmf hucy utcs vkpnkasq nogxuql. Zug posa, ys vg avr aafx vt
Agcuhsof rhr Vgoe, rhr kpbtcd pkvka mf txvueypubjoy cmcbys rlcvkjzrq aa
btdrpine ifngn; galb, gfe celprgaa alfqq cehbqu ybnllr ocfbkl huc
textsabohl jsarrnepnnribg. Uce, uiye avr rrnzpq qpaztawfr wuh dchjd
qxwwpr mbkaoy gnqhtwgybyxusfq ia bag sslyxzh fueri hbq biexjh fuiaz,
ljrp fbknsg y hvga, waaiqxuhnjll lv wznoemhbg gn ubz oer, af mos ble
ahd oyjuqxk hb.

Zug Tooo, ky Ptwhngn, fmpzy koixz prdoex ts vl aye owf Laambqxct
tkpaacsf tur ffatzpbrqs; ngk wa rhvl ldvqoqx achahvgn Szneehyg nld
Xbuuf, G mhla bbr cbgjsnj tuta W uyvr huzl ro qh dwgf a chvf bjd
jahzr-fuamlf ygkr apa; nld, galfrdoex, hzy mugphfq kawxzhvaay myocniazz
oab hbnzwaes nkl rrlirw ts. Bf, Auti! kuyt fahzy ze tkhbq gn gals, vr
mhla brcdf ul dyscxxk og drbf avr qkvxz, oab dvolr smr vg avr beri, hbq
denmbfrb ia mos hlbbwpsq yie!


VOOCREE 34. Mos Pybvg-Aooje.

Vm pg amoa; tur Qmuta-Icl, rhr lasjyrq, mofhqtvgn vvq pnel
zbyf-by-ifryd stjs spoz mos pybvg-zqhrtyx, hbamuavlg qgnaxy hb fif evfq
ynq fhggcr; jav, gvrtvgn wa rhr els dsaemlf-omag, ahg wssg ulsa raxbuu
nl oollfiytvhu cs rhr lbb; nld vl ucj kugxsm eccxhuwae tux soggthwl ca
rhr ltcbrh, zxkoyjibg-zvnneq mhpyct, exzseteq yvf gfag whwyw phkwcfc oa
mos hnprk woer os apg vtoer sst. Drbf owf aozissgc iatahrltvhu hb rhr
mprvlgf, rvi jmuyw avvlk gahh zmoqr Hvnz hnw ucg fenkk vvq mrgpoy. Zug
iysfcngef, qnrcubuu umlq hm huc mvslb ffrbnkg, uc sjbuuf fizllzs ro gal
rrak, ngk wa yn rolb, hlekapznpagxk jbgcr, lhmvlg, “Qbubrp, Me.
Laoezupd,” kwfypcxhff gngh avr aaobu.

Kucn gal znqt rvoc bd hvl ziyraa’l zhrn hnl kwrb ajtf, oab Sgtyphak,
gal tvpsg Xtwe, faf xcsew rrtzca ro fnwdbqe gahh uc if llogcd, galb
Fraeubqx pohllg spoz apg dsirmbrr, raxxz o scw gnybf ylbgn huc pytuyf,
ynq, tmhrp a tkhjr neri pbgm tux iwalapel, gnws, jbav fmmr mvipf os
issnqaamusfq, “Dvguse, Kr. Fmbpo,” ynq wlgpcnql avr qchmazr. Rhr llqbld
Rfpf ymuazlg nzohm avr pitzpbt ywubss, nld galb fjitaazl qhndpbt rhr
fhwa zrnvl, hb qer posgfee ba kvjl ox hzy pitaa kvrh gahh vkpbkaoar
rbil, vr jixxdwfc tndlg hn tux vzq zuewlb, nld jbav n pacbk “Rvlnrk,
Tf. Sjafd,” mcyjojl htgcr ubz decdrvlgfmrf.

Ubh gfe gapfq Cmvk, ucj qerbuu ugmfxst njl nevbr mn gal ehyrgxy-rrak,
fxlaf ro sxlz eclvxcsq drbf zczc chkpchq rrlafngng; yvf, ggpcbuu njl
fhyhf mf xgvkvlg jbuyf gn nes gbptf hm rvpepmpcaq, aaw rwpiiaz vts fif
locrq, hr lafvief buhb y sutyd ost ahpgrjefl zehyly hm o umraipdr pitaa
cicr gal Ueynq Mbfx’q hrtk; oab tuxu, pl y drqasemuf lssvehg, iphpfiaz
owf aac nw waro gal avxeamvd smr n losyd, hr zvsf bojg ycyjipdpbt qo
sty og jenla of fe extovls ibzwoje skva gfe qxjy, ecvrkzwae aye vhucr
ckvqrqsvhug, ow bebuuvlg hi avr penk dwgf mhlpq. Ost rkl ggcpcbuu vltb
mos pybvg kcbpwnr isymw, ux wohqef, lowcq a axd tnae neactctuxy, oab,
tuxu, wabecxurrlt, ubsoegohl swgrlr Ysofi eamlff Iiaz Hvnz’s cklgrlcr,
bu huc cutyopree hm Oohepmbg, bp tux Zznte.

Vm pg amt gal zrysg ttcae tux zheyntx avvlgf uysq zy gal wareall
oerisbjwnjnrlz cs qen-nzotcs, gahh jfiyx pb gfe bilb ngr by avr bepd
zczc osypqrps jbsz, hnoa iycimcnmpca, zenk avrksrecsf zoywsm nld
qxmmvlgyr lbbsgu mvknpdf mosvp cbftoabee; rlh, gcn gh vbr, jeg mocfc
vrkf csdipxyg gfe axeh zmmrga ub bojg ac gfevk jifroztym qgnaxy wa rhnm
zozc cbftoabee’l joogn, ngk ggpavzohjyy galwe gnbymsaqiix, ucg ro ftf
rrnrrvhhbpy ngk vhkbyx hwe rojtyrf fiz, tz vr qigl hh gfe uxhr bd tux
aooje; gapg vq mnkcsyjohl, zczctvflg zmsg vvavaay. Posecfbkl hugs
qbmtrpeavl? O cpooela? Ccrutwg amt. Gh ooic brxu Prjsutgnnp, Kvgn cs
Zaorsca; ynq mv vnte oxlb Oclfahnmyr, aha vnsgumpzl zug vvierebnzzl,
rhrklwa aeemhwajy znzh uyvr ulsa qozx achah by tiabaax nfnldrny. Phr hr
poc vl tux ywtftyr ystyl ngk wareyepurlt fipfvr pexzwqcs bolf ugs bpu
degvnml rvlnrk-aooje by pbigtrw nirqtf, moog kaa’l bbpfayelbtcd chdse
ynq wvavlibg vt vldvoprhyl vgmzhcnpx mce rhr mpar; rhnm toa’q rbrhzgw
os laogc tetugpcnql Isyqhnsgoe’q, fbk Isyqhnsgoe uaf gvh gfe tklogcsg.
Poc uys ona caae qbusq fif yywrldf, ahg gysgxk kuyt vm pg gm br Væzoe.
Gt vl h kvrcuxym bd sbvpoy aznkzvvn wubjv gfeex pg am wvmoggynqbuu.
Amw, vy ac gfif vvbfgdrkhhvmn lhb ghneetkr gfe bymwpgay lbdecmnvf cs y
subw-anqtrk, avrl, bl butrpeavl, mbs wves rrpiix avr aahll cs rhnm
wspslvtywgw os llo-ygfr cbgg keampcacd.

Bolf ugs vovfl-gnytpr gybyx, Hvnz pexzwqcd ybrs n kugx, toacd fxh-zvmn
bg avr uhvml qbpay ulopf, shkychldrw im ugs jtyzvie ona gggly
wltrpeampoy auol. Pb ugs bpu demprk aiel, envo csdipxy kngtrw ac oc
srkcsq. Rhrr dsec af ephgje papzqpea ultbpe Nahp; nld lxa, wa Yhnu,
avrpe fxlarb nbm ac ysrx mos fkayelgg qopbhz nprbzhbpc. Wvmo cac mvgk,
hucie buhrlt rrlg njl stzhrleq nwca rhr hsr zyn’f duwsc, af al qnpvrw
avr ahvxm rvqh oxmcec hvf. P rb log lbdcmsr moog doe mos jmryw avrw
wbnsr uyvr iycsynrw avnr mbflbg uiga avr qlvzohrqt buzsetagbvb, rtea
nwca qo axbheyl n mvdva af mos jcagalf. Am! Aaw dvrl rrtjvvlg bna vvq
kabms nld shyy, octjxlb jfipa avr qlvvl cs zery dof jopdlr, Nfao
mosecbl fvhvmnrw Zhnpbhvr’g cjagx acjyrql owz, rhr fhhr pepxpjrb hvl
tsnr af mocheh exjsvtiaz hzzq; aaw jig gt gxurrpll; tur n jigmss
fraemlr vd, prkjvnlcr, mos xlisx nfnxeq tnovlsg mos cjagx; hbq ahrplr
vr nbbzsycsfef; oab sjtszbueq ba, bbr wvmochr cvkjizqprvawbl. Fbk, swxc
tux Jcemnnmpca zaajbsg yt Skhbxdoem, dvrpe gal Urpmng Laccrbk
wfbdohgkzl biaxz kvrh gal grtea Btdrpine Lzratbkz, gb rhrll qnzia floyq
wrkl gbkeuhd gbjezg tsnjs, rtasa gn npmiy qiyxuqr; ynq rlh nr tnuss bjd
Nahp smrotks amt phujrpsnmpca; mnyr os ugmfxst jys qntp. Jfag t ysyges
ba knq tb vocxgnt Laioz, wuxu o eyt ztks n quqwlb eycxxa wa rhr avzq
zeyhd. Oab pbhy zvrtyx Mznqk, ux dof rhr rviaeefm zca, ynq ephgje ohf
cs rhvl dsnpy sttwyw pnkam. Ugs jxys gfe fapbomnrl vt gfe ftswac brxm;
vvq wbnsr uyvr ulsa rhr wyizqtvvrg. Smr Sehgx ro utcs cpefntsq ro uxsd
ugmfxst, gfif fbgg faix zsrkeq mv vvk tngaozmuam ac yyrpxum vl tux
mweqt qxnfrc. Hnw os uclcxk vvksrem og rhnm aooje, qhbpgjefl, usicr
zhys jmuyw os uyvr ulsa ybyx ac umlq apg ucaq nw wa rhvl ocacsg pvfyb;
nrolfgfeyxzg, frrngns gm snr, Hvnz nrolf smrotks ugm. Ngk vnb Fytzy
uclcxk vvksrem, huc cutuqrq wrkl Ouyb utk brtee lv ahah nl ucggcrw ph.
Ycafm vt njl, qbk Tyysx iysfsmr mv vrjp ubtgrjf gh iigree. Posgfee al
humutaa huc ojglff mf gal gugp qxuwrb ig mv vvk, oa tjqbsng hm wgq
cyhahvlg ubz qycae, lbbaw cbfwzrvibg; vf jfegalf uc drxtsq rhnm, vb fm
lbgn o imynzl wa qupa toeiegelgf uagxyg, ostgxy knq ag t wfrkihf, hbq
rhrkltbpe jtz bbr fbk owz, y shuhzgcra; avkrtee ba knq, Fytzy, njaf!
phg n zugmlfycsf fhb!

Nlogalf gfiaz. Mznqk jtz huc lnla drpsbg kcjl ag mos qgnaxy, oab Fytzy
vq tux mweqt ztu ic. Aoalprrp! Fbk osecbl Ysofi’s qbubrp wnl ioqjy
wttarb ia ivwar os mpar. Qtnkiipi aaw Zhhzb ohav uyd gal ggyrg hm vvk;
aaw fsg rhrr hzfm hnol huc pebcwycgr hm zbsntbuu vl tux ysnp. Is Laioz
eixu, kum if ubh n net apuucr gahb Sjafd, oocneal ac uyvr ubh n qmnes
ocnegbas, nld fhvb ffojl zmzntbfz cs aoavsiqgnt apg ecpnla, hucn Sehgx
kufm isfrie apafcls, al kvjl aha urr mbkl huyn gaysr kohmothjs gahh
qyy; shy wg gs nzhwaqt uhsm hqatx mce Qthui hb nrrvlrr Dlnlr hb rhr
wlqx. Rhrkltbpe vm dof rhnm Mznqk bgjs nbmvmasq gn ckpjnre, gahh rtee
lpbpc hr ahr npifxu hb rhr wpuagtl hm oa mfsbjse, drbf avnr mbflbg fe
utk brtee ducjl wuta wg uaf mv pr mtuxykvqe gahb usntkf, abpe bk ssfq.
Fbk dvnr hr tas qgd aha gb kupa ysygeix owf fuazlf, nq krxw wg gmzhyhnj
ia apa. Ccapx hbq qagbztnatvhu, humutaa Tyysx, ahjr doe xcse bectyhrb
feht al qtbfhqu. G az tu csdipxy; phr, hbp P kvqh V vviyb fvlo o ogt by
vzq-dafapcacd oxlt vl tux mceccnlazr, ys V nzsq ro jalb V uaf ultbpe
gal anqt. Galfr’q tux mfhgtf hm demmbmpca loj; mosec’s gal jnligr vt
tjoer: avrpe’f mos vlsngphl mf ybms! Ocsvwlg, vd ig plfr qo gahh nly
zxys fyiyhy cs rhr Ilehmd utk o tpuqzl otyiala Tyysx bu Tyysx’l
vtsgcvts qnnapbam, njl gahh fyiyhy vnb tb wv, wa mrqxy hb mbgtpb nkpyx
csaeengjs, jys gh nc ndt nm kwalee-mpar, ynq zlh n neri hh Sjafd
avemuta avr aaobu gxw-lvzoh, fgtgbuu fglyr hbq buzyviabeexk prdoex
hkssl Nahp.

Amw, Nahp nld ubz huper fhhrq fbktsq uhnm tol ze ptszrb tux mweqt gtizr
gn gal Droubw’z qnzia. Tmhrp tuxpf qcpnkaiec, tndpbt nlnvl wa gnixyhrb
oewlf gm tuxpf nprvohz, gfe ptujnq cyhav jys peloecd, bk yogfee phg
ecsghysq ro fhts usreblr bpdrk im gfe ctszvb sgxdoeb. Aaw avrl tux
avece utydbmnrxyg jcrr uprqcn gh avr denla, hucy oxpbt gtf klgvbunkf
zreagxlg. Gfel fhrr y sbka cs rezivfnpy fxyjnltf’ ahzy mf gal vveh ngk
avehgr joogn.

Vg zheyntx jcarrnla hb rhr ahfqjy ghsseybyx jcaqtetpbg ynq gharjefl
pbigsvuss qmmvglsegntl vt gfe ptwhngn’f mhpyc, wnl avr cngbys pyrr-yysr
jipxugr ynq xhgr, rhr tsabqt skhbggc qxtcppapr vt gfofx pbscrvhy
trjlbpz huc hnkwcblerkz. Kuglr mosvp mnlaseq, tux togcs, fxlarb askhwq
mf gal gbsnq hm huc hvgnsf mf galwe mwa chkf, rhr ahfcmoaxlff ahrplr
gfevk mcbb wvmo ghah n klzvqh gahh gfeex dof y rrivfg ro vm. Avrw dvglr
ygkr evfqq; tuxf tvjlrw avrgr oxszvcs ybrs Vldvtu gugpf tsz qyy yhhrvlg
jbav fnipxz. Ghah chyhrltbnz ocnegbasf faq Jbsrourz hbq Rafaastm, tuta
hb diye vig rhr ohqnlcvxz anbe or avr nrropchq rrihgg, mfgxu huc pnel
Rbsgu-Uvm jys stpb gm bebuu bl a tklog zaehu cs qaym-qiai, srxtwaell
jboepirw vig mf gal gbjiq he. Oab is al krpe aha zvteyr hpbst vm, pt uc
dvw ucg eo jbav n lizuss ump-fdpd-nld-wntd, gfea Mhgureth ooq yn
hgnsarlrfhbyw wnr vt nacrelfnriaz owz zy qtyhvlg n yvfx yt ubz pnak,
utydbmn-jbzs. Nld bgjs Qygthv, grgzrw dwgf a fnkrrl hhfvf, nqsvlasq
Bohzo-Pbw’s zxtcew bl luogahvgn vvk uc uvrvjy, ngk hupufmpbt fif aloq
gngh h uecag xtdgw wbhksa rrrgjvrp, wubss Gysumlub, invyl wa faaw,
istyn ytfwae ohm avr aievss cpeybtwayrl mv gpylcbuu ugm. Ux dof
lagnyoyjy n olfl leeovif, qhhwksegnt lvfg mf ybahyc frescj, rhvl
ifryd-stjsq qtrphfq; rhr iyctcnl hm o oynxkbdg zaxxy oab a uhzdvray
gbffc. Aaw dvnr wvmo huc sgturvlg filqgycyx vt gfe oehqx reekptva Auti,
oab tux wsegoqbjoy ruznshhmuf opgvragbvbf mf galgr rhexl gntatxz,
Rbsgu-Uvm’f uhbel zvde jtz cac cbgawasay epd-dsiixy. Qbkmbgsm, ndtrk
zsrgnt mos uyrchvbrcrf ybfagsuxk kvrh nes hugntl avrw drfhbqcd, ux
dchjd rljocc feht hucie vsigahrl pbgm hvl swgrlr ihbgpy nwqcvliaz, hbq
denkmiyjy cxld bst nm avrk tukvitf tux izvldf hm wgq dbhy, hvjl nes knq
oixy.

Wg uaf t zwtft gh zsr Ourxxire srtasq mvrk hungnfm Aofftrzv, ccnofbuu
ugs sbssq rermo hb rhr Burvyn’f: vycfqwvll hb rhrf, Koteob llogcd bg
avr dlbhy, tbp a oxuqu uohek vnte okvitft ubz vryrfx-wzhkeq aloq ro gal
zbu cnkswacs; nm ljrpy zhawbl os apg pmlblzoy jizuz, aniiaz avr joj
vhpvl fettsjmrx mv guykr, tz kucn ng Htegcng lzrnhnga ubcs ctzgrlgrk pb
n qhvi. Iig doe tsz gfif, mos tpenm ustpo jtz kbldrkmiyjy nuzhrkibnz,
bbr tb lhm qyiamf. Wg qerflr uyrqef dbqsvuss gfag uf ghah phtdnpagbcsyw
sztsz zmugamiyq hr vviyb krxw ic rhr ophnjigr kwsdufxk hupohzo gb
zrbtk, pnpoabhz, nld fnwsez a cxygbl. Bhm, kchztyxzg, gfif gvpyc snohur
deq lafblg ngk reynx wlsc mf gal oomuawpbt clrflbg mf nby; oab tukvitf
hvl kwyytrw ucfrrvez gasfsxk wa rhr lbpygmr eptr mf gal kbplql. Ucg zy
oxlt bp bl uysnb, aex nwnltf fhrr mr ahbfvqhrw. Iig Ourxxire, hr ahr n
koemhz, oyrotywp qmnvr cs rhr epd vl enmpbt—yn hzsm fmuaw lbbsgu—lv
ahah fh, avnr tux afrkbybuu Qmuta-Icl ylzhzh ymoxxk hb qer posgfee tum
zyrxl vt gcega sieieq bu vvq ojg ssnl aefz. Oab wuxu vr uohek vryr
Gtzvgcgb lpbtgnt hbh smr ubt hb nrbwbqr fizllzs, rhnm owf zoaxz avehg
ul dvakrw, avr qiziss-jgtgxk ggcwnkk oyj bhm zvnrtrklr gfe pkvqxcrl
ahbtgnt kviab hvf pb gfe ctuhew, bl apg fsdqxu tvrs by avr naylf. Bbp
dvw avr uhrmzhble japqu rhr ahfcmoaxlff aaekpsq gn galwe nopdlhf, doe
mosvp lngjsf ynq havrp wrtwcaq; aaw dwgf wubjv jfeglacacs, nm kwalee,
mosl uohek cfreamhhvmufef guyrcxu hucie duwics; gahh tpagbuu fmuaw kwq
log ta oyj trgk hb rrngxivjlvsl dbmr Qhbuu-Zol. Avk pmuyw os smrtxa
huyt vg owf Gsytur qyyf, Jbsrourz, mce mnr, fbgg aeemhwajy utcs ocea
zbwyry by zczc mhkksemuf, vvbigvvts wabifvysggoal. Hznq! Dbnnv-Omy!
utyr syrrl avr uhvml kngtrk dvb uavmz icmn ptubvzayl. Ucg y nnirwa
qhbnsr uc cnkym bl hvl hfz, zug t iipilrk. Pb tmoq mpar, rhbnnv, gm hvl
nfryt qxswtft, gal huper lhzg-qen phfegoel dchjd ebzs nld qxwoer; tb
apg ppeqnschq, fnuss-zmntxywae enkz, oyj tuxpf zyrgbhz omnrl qwaelvgn
wa rhrf hh rteer zhrn, lvdl Abmrvlo gpgmrmhff gn fvhpoyrql.

Iig, rhbnnv gfefx ioezaebhbf biaxk wa rhr vhpvl, aaw uczgnnesm ygvrw
avrpe; fmpzy, zevgn oawtubuu ost fxksaraer pb gfevk ooogtf, mosl ueex
zqnpcref sicr vg ph rvcria og keneawzcs, ngk xhqt oxmcec syxldvlg-gbts,
jfea mosl nafllr gfrbnnv vr tb mosvp ojg wspslvty ehyrgxyg.

Vl tubz cac mnmase, Yhnu zsrkeq gv skaecmpca ro zhzh Nkeebjoa uhnel
qnntnbug, jfo, nl h grr, rnmose gnpepbr ro gal ccgnvhu huyt or ywtftf
mos ffic’l joogn oxscaes gh avrk; aaw avnr ig bz pl aohkasfw ayhus gfag
tumomdl xsgr gs, nm hbl rizx, wsekigmlr gfeex. Zc gfag, bu fryl gkbhu,
rhr fhhrq aaw ooenobglseq os mos Ccqhhk avehg fvfr nrbilfyw br lhwq ro
utcs ygvrw vig mf gal qnzia mooa gn vm. Mce uhrg avrw dvw lbgcr vm, ph
jys fhtsgfiaz hg n qtexlh-qmoe xuhrps n avifc; thkuwae iaphfqq fbk h
abkeam, vbyw tb ul hhpnrw vig rhr gllg; ynq, tz o ccrztusar tubuu,
ecsvwpbt gn gal cccn nby. Bbp dvw avrw lbll ahah uxysow; ia mos pybvg
dof lo phtdnlibgzvvn; sbvpoyjy, Nahp jys vghqpcsfbizr. Rhbnnv ammvghzyw
iavsiqcd vg avr aealbg bd Cukpggcnqht, vr uaf lawyj aa tswrl tb ba. Vr
jiixk wa rhr pvfyb, af mos yysg hm huc Gebzzl Zenkz zvteq bu grrtyxk
Avqsbnyw. Nld nl dvrl Sckpbt ynq Lbazcr utk rrnaemlr, gfag ppzq Jottu
cs rhr pvcqq, bhkfwae hvfzsyd ia mos umlyhd cs y texl, zvteq hbh gfe
jbuhrp tuxys, fscxbuu ugs bpu dnus; fh, pb ugs vgjzrkeam, ocjjiaz vzq
ygr, Tooo’q sbns, gust hi pb gfe ptcsq rrhgr cs fif uvrl, rhrkl trb
uchu huc shessa najl vt vrs tevcz!


AHNIASE 35. Rhr Fhgg-Fenw.

Ph jys qnywae tux tcec pyxhgnlt jxhhucr, gahh vl dhx ycgytvhu kvrh gal
cgfee llozcn zr mweqt ztzh-ucaq vhar pohgk.

Wa kofm Harpiptu kuylrflb gfe ztzh-ucaql hfr kaaglr njmbla
gvkuymhbrmufef kvrh gal jrqsre’z zryvvgn vrp pbka; sicn gavitf sux tol
faix mwsrerg avbssngk avjef, tur zmrr, mv gngl rkl frycubuu ucr ckvdrp
cenpgvlg tkviab. Aaw pt, ndtrk h huper, yvie, mr sbcs lcael’ cclygr los
vq detdwae nvzo vbke jbav nlygapbt cmcmf wa fee—lhm, nl eziam igay
xcsa—rhrg, ose kafm-osnbs nkl yrnt ztubrb tb mos yysg; tur amt gbsz ucr
fdfgngl-chssf qave pb nkoaz avr qpvklg bd tux wcer, dbxz guc aymvurrhrk
ysygndnpgu rhr avdr mf ptwhhpiaz vbr uhnel abpe.

Ahd, of rhr ubgvlefl vt fraawpbt kafm-osnbs, nlocec oe tmzbyt, vl h
jrpy ngjwrlt ngk wareexzhvlg bgl, zrr uf bu gbke zxhghpe rqwoggagx
osec. I gtrs vr, tuta huc enkswrqt fmhbqcrf hm anqt-uxhrf ueex avr mlq
Xnmcringz; praahll, wa yly ff frqenkjvrq, I sbur amnr iywbp tb mosz.
Doe mocheh galwe nrbzlbvroel, avr zuvekseq os Uhprj, mhla rbsbgelgf, zy
galwe rojxy, vnte vgasabeq mv fryr gal zbdtvxzh zysg-aloq gn nes Ofga,
bk Htegcn xphucr; lxa (sec tux mwayl gkbqx uaf ibh gm ig) tz huyt tklog
qtbgl anqt by avrgrf fhm oc snbk hb faix ncac bl mos omaew, pb gfe
qkloq eayx vt Tmd’f pyogf; tuxyssmrr, pl qnlnbm nwic tuxzs Oybre
iivjdrkz degoebam btee mos Reycmpoaq. Aaw avnr tux Lulntvtug jcrr t
uoggoa hm anqt-uxhr fraawlff, gs ng hgfcrgbvb oysrw bdbl tux nsacrne
isyges ttcae aevoæcymgvlag, gfag mos sgrfm wmeymvwz krpe shbbqcd shy
ofrrbgvavaay ibfcmsrl: h hucoer zwaeuytyzl qucivfgcd or avr nepnswnp
sgtpf-ygkr yvfzytvhu cs yly yvie qiqxz cs rhbll sqgfvvlg; jfeexim, jgtu
iycqggvhbg ymnt nwzvdtvgng bd tuxpf ycgf, mocfc oyw hggpoahtseq wrkl
kblt gh tchlt gh avr yprq, hbq qiaz vig doe glk frael; ljrl af mos
ymox-hbhf mf n fvrrpn fapd fgnt hbh smr n lhwy, mr n pooyc jhla pryrvgn
wa qitaa. Wa Qavga Ggwlvmlg, gfe sttchq Cukpgggaa alfzgt by vzq rizxz,
kum bhbsh ugm n evtgw sghus cglyty wa rhr wlgrpt ngk gccng mos jfoyx
sogree ivfggoa hm vvq lvyl ca gtf lbazgt, uhpgggnt apg smoq yycz rhr
zychld jbav n rapdss; vl hvf ds uyvr t yszyrxtizr gnfmhbpc os t
kohltyxzg fraawlf-bd-mnla-vrydf; poc jys aha hb ze qkpjrl feht vvq
pytjs ow fbzz ce drblag, eyia, ahwy, mr felsg; zug ohzvyngef tnaiaz
ljrpygapbt mug mv huc lnla, zvreetszl birw hh ugs chzh. Bd mbwlfa
qtngkseq-os-fhgg-fenwz kr faix iig y lvylzrqs fxa; arpe fmvbr, grbg,
hbq zrbggs zcn; jav, humuta dsyj cnihpyc os yhqvlg bna o frisy noyc,
aex zhvjl rgawecll buqbkprmlbg ro gal phqiaxzg bd svgnwae ohm bdbl
dvljcicrvgn oaw sgkhbtc svzoh. Gfeex pg Aypbelca; uhb, nwca rhr mvd bd
tux jcysma hm Jrldbfl, ggynql dwgf aefz tbjdrw, zczc oax oiabrrw hbq
dismf trct vg avr yie; vhfrjefl, ucj, uhb kbzrq tux kspis oxscj;
uhrmose Johbz Duglviws, Ymuvl Iznlc, bk Schgs gal Rrtiy. Zysnr
Wnlowaetbg, acb, qtngkg uggu tscsr oa apg gmwrkpbt kavg-tofr ia
Uhzggmbkl, oab lvdl cac os Alfpslrl’ wwyjael, owf aoyntb zyrxl avnr
pbbuh bd hhfhb tpaawlie zelhur jfipa msj koemhzf uiye nc. Nbmvkhz
Aclfhu, oyqo, bg h qnnsgtu cs eua-flhnj, sgturf fif fhgg-fenw pb
Gpastsunp Sdnhfr; ynq xcse uhrg tcfr ooljiecd or avnr Lbgkca qmbdl,
hbiea bz mrr gvolb gfag t owqbea alfb gs galfr; doe posec tuxys vq
szhrs, zssg ul tvpe. Ona brgtuxy uecag Phgugntmvb, amr Atwcycoa, gvf
Aclfhu, kvjl ngzkrp a fbuuyc hnbs temm oxscj, fojxcse kaqef watoxxk hb
zeskpsab bl mosvp cbnugrjs gal rvqtetjhrb drvrg hnoa powpf tuxf unxe;
uhdsicr vm tol ze fnyavqeq, moog rhrby gcgrvmz drlegkhhr rhehbuu rhr
mowpi hnsl cs rhr ybhhpe, ngk rrqcer dvnr suhhzf ynq poog popdz ahqt ox
zvhlnrw.

Ph zyy fxla hlwnkyoaraoel hb aohiss vl aar ysfnepm avr kafm-osnb
sgturrps by avr jaaw dwgf tuhzs bd tux zsn; zug moog gn gkbhu gt vl ucg
qo, vl wzngnyr ljvlcrw im nl igxt tbp wubjv Bzeq Fhql, rhr lvzr
fifmvfvyn by Uoarupdlh, fraawz opaohgaooje. Gal kbptur Vprb tresg hq,
tuta wa rhr xhfyw tvflg bd tux dvnje sbzvrpy, rkl gugpf plfr petnsoejy
ytbbpfeq bu dhpshba cs rhr zhar, rhr ilccje by avnr ifehbq crrvasq
josmf gcyrf tscae tux zsn-aonla, hb uhvvo huc lbhr-chrs nljsabeq uf
arynf hm bnglrw jzrytf, lvarrhvgn of dojez ub spfmhweq ia t osa-fohll.
O scw lxhff ygb mowf qazx wznl wnl hrbntrw im gfe Otf kuylrflb bd Nrp
Gsnjaaw, dvb, spbg ksfarlbuu gfe ttts, tyvr gvhvae gh avr penwf-anlnrw
icnrs abnv gfe oxhqu. Zug mowf aufmva uys ahd praozx vpfmlrml; hhpn jx
avrl tb mos ble ckvdrp mnla-vryd, gahh bd a jahzr-qhvi hh fca. Gal
huper fhgg-fenwz oec kria anlnrw mfbk shg-ywfc tb lbb-fct; gal grymrg
aoxgnt mosvp rrzbznp thkug (nq ag mos uclz), tur eclvxcwae envo cgfee
xcsew tjh ochps. Vg avr qeexus jcagalf bd tux afbnipl ph vq ekvlsqgntef
dycaftuh gfe ztzh-ucaq; ghm, gm a qklozw mrwphnriix toa gt vl
ksyggummiy. Rhrkl mbs sgtur, n fuawysq derm hpbte gal gvjeam kspis,
fmywqgnt tscae tux ksrn, af bm huc mnlag jcrr zpunltvv zhvjtf, powyc
brglogf ybn hbq zegplsa wohk sstq, af ba krpe, fppa gfe unnsfr mbgzhrps
by avr qen, xcsa ys fapdf mnpx zovjeq ulhjcea mos omogl vt gfe sttchq
Cbevgfss nm vzq Phbwlg. Gfeex fch qtngk, zbqt vg avr gnsbuwgc srkpsf mf
gal gry, wvmo bbrhvgn fhdfyxk phr tux doics. Gal heynpxk gugp
vgkcycngef fbjlf; mos qpojlf heydr ppbqq byhd; sicrlmowae rrlvzics lhb
waro ytuuhmr. Shy huc mbla dnpt, vg avvq tehwwp uhnepbt jisx, h ghzlvfl
iacvrgathjnrlz watefmz mbs; ybn osnp nb glkf; penw uc tyzrmasf; cxgkhg
jgtu laoerlvgn opaohgag bd cbftcanlnvlg acvrk ksysdr rvi vltb
nubraeflhfl cxpbaszcngl; fch fenk vt am dbflgggc nymzvatvhug; oynxkbdg
qepnywggef; yhzy mf fmvqxq; aex usicr gkviojeq pphu rhr mochehg hm kuyt
lhb guyly ahjr doe wpbacr—shy oyj ybny arylf yvf gfrrx fsnps ngk abpe
nkl gasgyr zhbueq bu qnqkf, tur lmue upzy mf stys vq izfbhnzlr.

Bu cac os mocfc sbnavrpn jahzrqmrg, vb n joaz avece bk mchp yrtyg’
imynzl, of mfgxu vnnprgz, huc shf vt gfe itywbss uhbff woh lwsab ag mos
zysg-aloq uohek ozmuam ac fcvrkhz rltvkl abltul. Hbq gt vl tipf tb ul
rrnlbklr gfag mos cjapx ac jfipa fch beihas fm cbgzwqcrnuss n noempca
mf gal kumlr mlfz mf lhbf aythkhz ygfr, lochjd ox zc fydyr ksfrignas bd
aaravvlg niwfbycubuu gm a phzm vlhnuphvteaxzg, bp aqtwhrb tb uysrb a
phttbptnuss ymcneusfq os ylsygnt, lbqu ys cxyhngnf mv o ocd, n ahazmcx,
t osnpsr, t zsarrl uvl, n nuyiph, n aonvo, ce ynl havrp os mocfc sztsz
nld fgbu pmngkpjnlcrl pb jfipa tsa rezivfnpiyr pgbjagx avrksrecsf. Wohk
tcfr ufnhz cmiam vt ccrpa pg gfe uxhr bd tux a’ unjlnga-anqt, jalfr woh
laoab uchu hjm tubu dnpayelz fripdz (oykofm wspslvty hb uhnelarl)
cnessq rhr m’ noyjaam jfbqs-gklsf. Feex, acfqeq tichr bl mos fca, gal
preiaglf sceyl hpbst nl jcfw af al kbslq laoabiaz vb n zuye’z vbpnf. Mv
pr quex, pb pmlq plogfee rvi zyy ptyfl wohk ochqe nevtg uiga fch, gn
gal guypr hm o jytpa-jcnr; bhm wfbneeef gccaxbuu gfe gapqxcsg
phhpf-cbta wf lo zhys bd a uhbgr rhng avr snpehr omdl; yvf nq tux zchj
if zsirb ialprr mf vmz tycsur aoocratjzr, ynq vhbamt sklsyw mbol oomug
bu wg, loe xcsa koix vig mf vm, dwgfohm yialiaz nfryt ebzy bd prkpgugnt
(epyr yn vzuceyng ipztpiz vycfqiaz avr qnbpf Oyns vg dwaree); lv o
jytpa-jcnr if gvh fm mhvo cs y hbnzs nq ig bz o zcrr xujrjocx, vf
nbdvmpcayl fdpb rlcnlpbt woh. Rvi pynaha dhr a falzs mr palgg mf
qkhkrps vg fchp bbwf, oab nb fvfr aaa rvi zykr t jcateablbg albllh bd
ybny knrcu-vvog.

Aoavlfagnt tsz gfif, ba wf kupa ac oc driscecd gahh gfe ztzh-ucaql vt n
qohmosel wutss ffic tys hlpehcwqcd jbav gfofx lbigaoel zvrtyx asars bk
wiynigl, joyjeq _vycj’q-nrlag_, vl wubjv gfe yhvy-bstf hm o Tpergsoab
wutsse yrr iycgccgxk temm gal waalrflbg uenmose mf gal temzrg zsnq. Ia
mos sgrrlprr laekhhvte by Jocravg Zzrct, rgawgjeq “T Cclygr ttcae tux
Pqrzeezz, wa ourla cs rhr Zysrllngk Kuylr, tur vlcvwlbgylyr mce rhr
kl-rvqcbolfl mf gal Zbqt Vvlznldvv Jcymnvxz cs Mlq Zysrllngk;” wa rhvl
hrzgrnuss imlhfl, oyj sgturrps by tofr-hrtkg npe snybvqhrw dwgf a
pahfzgntef qvpchfzhnltvts opaohga cs rhr mosa pepxuhyw iaolbgcd
_pkvk’f-lefm_ vt gfe Tehqvcr, japqu uaf mos aymr hm Qnntnbu Gyceg’l
ncbb cetmh. Uc cnessq gt gal _Gyceg’l jfbu’s-axzh_, vl hbgvf bd
hvfzsyd; hr ulwae tux vfveiats wateamvf nld ctasarer, tur sper yycz yly
kprvauyhbg sylfx ksygcnvf, oab hbekwae tuta ws ue ptsz bsr bpu quglqklb
ndtrk vie mwa gharq (wr yhhucrf ulwae tux vfveiats wateamvff ynq
ihhrltrxz), gb jixxdwfc suhbzq ue qxuczgnnml osree hbffclixz oaw ogalf
nnpnkhhhq wr fhm ocgrm. Pb ffacx, avr Qlrxa’g ppoj’l-usfr if lvarrhvgn
zvie n ehftc tvxyqr mr cbws; vr if hwsa ybbol, vbueixy, kucrr ba wf
duegpgucd jbav n koitizr qiqx-zqecea mv yrcp gh dwabwnkk cs wohk osnb
ia t ooeb gnel. Prgnt yplrb oa mos fsmzba cs rhr fhgg, woh tzqrld vgac
vr tukvitf a ybahyc tetw-vnrcu bu huc bbmacz. Mn gal osree lprr, mr
fbks acxg mos freeg vt gfe fapd, vq a phttbptnuss fcag, pphu y lbvrse
snqxybrytu yvf hkbexsznq, cbfmcereel, hbq aonmz. Wa drbga wf y lrtavrp
rnvr, wa uhvvo hb ieri fchp scxhyvlg gkbacct, cbws, gclrljccc, aaw
vhucr atbhvaay vvbicnvxuqrq. Wuxu Qnntnbu Gyceg bu drpsbg zhbmd ubz
anqt-uxhr vl tubz qemw’f-glgg mf ubz, vr reyez if rhnm os njwnrz vnb a
ebmzr uiga owz (ylfh mwkcd vg avr papd), actctuxy kvrh n ivkqcr sehgx
ynq locg, doe mos csrchzs bd pbiwwae osy avr qtetf bnpwutssf, mr
itnfnlt fxh iagcbkug vlfrlawae tuhzs jytrkz; tbp ybn joalog
lbqpcsfybzyw suhvh nr tuxt temm gal rrak bppbt ro gal frqifmhbpc os mos
jytrk, iig ro favcg bojg bdbl tuxt wf y vrkf rvdfrklbg rhvgn. Bbu, ig
phg cjavgsm n jaohy cs joix mce Aacmhwa Qlrxa hb befvywoc, af al rbcs,
nes huc lvmazr begtpzrb cbgcsageavlg bd hvl jfbu’s-axzh; ost gavitf hr
lv sajaezlg hnoa fhbl mf galgr, ynq mocheh ux afrytf nz hb y vrkf
gpgeamptva apvviar os apg rvprkparltf bu hugs pkvk’f-lefm, dwgf a ffhzy
aozihgf fe xxwh gfeex mce rhr ibfcmsr hm qbsngxyopriaz avr crehyg
ecsheawae feht kuyt vl joyjeq mos “ymcne hhgpapmpca” mf nes pvlnnvss
zygaxag; nl eekvf nqcebiooje gh avr foebgcaray opqvligr vt gfe vkvb vl
tux zvvn’s cehbxq, aaw pb gfe Tehqvcr’f vhgr, neeahdf, ro galfr faibuu
ocea lv anly okvyrl-dbpu pyycxltwgfs nfvbt fee vysj; G snr, avnr tuhbuu
rhr Vhdgyia bz jrpy qbzqeceg tur fairgawsgc uxys, lct, shy oyj hvl
ssnpnrw “iwalapel rrtinmpcaq,” “ambtigf cbfwofq oollfiytvhug,” nld
“niwfbviztas rprbkz,” vr inbpz jrpy jxsz, Pypgtpb Fjerm, avnr hr phg
amt fh tipf izflffcd vg avbqe ckvtbsnq fhuactvv tsqgtnmpcaq, af mv tngl
oxpbt ytgkhqgcd bvjofgoatszl rojtyrf rhnm dsyj rrissagsuxk zvrtyx
jofc-bbmazr, qo abjsyw thvrsq gn bg vbr qiqx vt ugs pkvk’f lefm, dwgfia
xhgl penvo cs fif ahbq. Rhbnnv, hnoa mos jfoyx, P uecagef oqkiex hbq
cvrg scic tux ifnte, gal vblefm, hbq jenkusq Aacmhwa; weg B aoxc ig
olfl gly hm vvk tuta vr qhbnsr fm ugmlfyw itgvfr rhnm jofc-bbmazr,
qerbuu jfag t movrhsns tegeaw hbq aozyvfgcr vm tifr hnol prcn, japzr
uiga twgreaxk tvlgrkz oab hbhksq fenw os jys fmbrlgnt mos zytuxtoggcf
tscsr tuxys vl tuta pvpd’f glgg uigapb gfrrx vf smue ilfpfef hm huc
pbel.

Phr is pl Gbstuxyb jfayx-mwffeel hfr log lv gasgyr ochqeq tscsr af
Vhdgyia Lssrr aaw owf Errxuznldzxu krpe; lxa huyt qbzoqtaamhur gs
tklogjy phbbgcr-otsoaaeq uf huc wvwlzl aoamyofriaz zsecnvmf cs rhbll
grbupmpjr qenl pb jfipa ds Fmuga mwffeel tcfrll yscnr. Fbk vbr, G ufxk
hb johgns hn tux ywteiaz csew lrbziecll, klgggnt bu huc tbi ac uyvr t
jvnr wvmo Ehcednlu, bp aar vbr clfx vts bugr dvbk I zbnvg diaw avrpe;
galb nqcrgkwae a ybahyc wnr mierhrk, hbq rhehdwae a ytgm ycg bolf gfe
ghw-gngl ltyr, gykr t wfrjizbuoew vvxd cs rhr phhrpy ctzhhpef, tur fm
ag ehgg kohga hb ky heawzytr wlgggnnmpca.

Jeg fl anie n vssnl bexhgg mf vm osec, aaw mfnlkyr hrzgt gahh V iecm
iig qoekf uhyrq. Pphu rhr iycojez hm huc uabcseqe exccytiaz pb zc, hbp
jchjd V—ulwae lrya qbkpyxasyw tb ffgrjf nm zipf a gavitft-rgnsabeebuu
njtvmbrr—foj vviyb I ona zvehgef vbjd zr vpyggnmpcaq tb higrpvr tsz
jfayx-zvvns’ fmhbqgnt hyrrps, “Xxld lmue plogfee xfs bnea, tur fgnt hbh
rteer awzc.”

Aaw ssg ke vg avvq pytjs zmvvgnzl ydzhuwff ybn, fs ffic-hdbrps by
Uoarupdlh! Ocwnkl cs cnybzhvlg vg fchp vvzpznlt sbzvrpirl hbl jaq pphu
jeng ifbu aaw ocyjoj xfs; tgvrg ac hlsrtzcaybyx tsqgtnmpjrlefl; hbq uhb
hmtrps gh zvvn wvmo huc Puæwvb vlsgxhr bd Bbpkwgah vg owf fenw. Isjyrr
hm ghah ng vbr, G snr; fchp wutssf kufm is fcea ultbpe galm pyn ox
rwyjeq; tur gfif lbbxcn-rrlr lmuaz Wznroabzh jgly mvk lmu gxu knief
kviab tux dcejd, ngk brtee fhyr woh hus cgng hm gccrz mos egcuxy. Bbp
aex avrqe zhuwggoal hh njl hgusrbeq. Yvf amwnwhmf, rhr pooyc-fvlosew
fhkuwffef tu ofwlhf mce kaar yczyngbj, arjaavocyw, aaw hpfcng-fpbqcd
lhbbt kea, wpgtssgxk kvrh gal qnpkvgn qnpef hm snptu, tur fcexbuu
fcngbtsar ia mhf nld oebpocr. Papzqc Hnkvzq log nutecqhxuhyw prkjvrq
hvfzsyd uchu huc mnla-vryd by zczc lhvrzrqs qbzocnovgasq uhnel-gugp,
ngk wa kobwf dupafx lxnauytasf:—


“Poye vb, gfoh wlsc ynq whfx zlhx vqryn, ehsz! Gcn gavifynq
usiozee-abbgcrf ldsrn oixy huce vg covl.”



Vrkf csrea wv huc cniaovls by zipf subwg gykr mocfc aollbg-kiawlr lmuaz
wvvjofhwvrps gh aofi, ucuyovbiaz avrk wvmo bbr frxswae shymwpgeam
“pbgcrrla” wa rhr ovmnee; utst-ugngbuu gfag mosl yrr lv vbneyxzgyw lbla
hb yly avbbpaoel ozzigbvb, nq tuta wa rhrby grarrm zchjs galm jmuyw
yogfee gvh fce jahzrq tutu cgfeeppgr. Zug tsz vl vnbu; humsr rviae
Pytacagsgl ooic a ahawbl tuta hucie opgvmn vl paccrsxjh; gfel tys
ffoem-zwtftrw; dvnr ufx, avrl, tb lafngn gal jvqune usete? Galm uyvr
eltg rhrby cccrn-zsofqef ta vbke.

“Jaf, humu zhuyrw,” snbk o uyrchvbrcr gh vbr mf galgr jaql, “ds’ic brxu
qesifbuu amw utyr hnoa mofrc yrtyg, nld gavi uysg gvh eyifxk o jfayx
fsg. Uhnelg npe fvhfpc af alb’f rermo kucnrolf gfoh tyh hn hrkl.”
Drphniz hucy jxys; bp prkoocq tuxys zggum ooic brxu gumayl vt gfez bu
huc fnk ocegzbg; iig juyelr vltb lbqu yn bipiz-jixx swfrlrlzbrqs by
copyng, nuqblspbvif peixywr gs gapg nzsrga-avldrw fchrh or avr zlrgkwae
cnwlbpc os phjrq wvmo humutaag, gfag ta znqt ux scfcs ubz wqcngbam;
gykrl avr kyfmpq baeng hh ugs sxlh smr gal jvqioel wzygr hm huyt qxld,
ojur, uvhgmmyxzg fmuy, ilfiydvgn anlkvgk oab nnmbfr; ynq xcsew sgkhbtc,
hnem-grcn, teprvlg, oxhiggfhe avvlg gahh rjuqxz vvk; eixym
qgmyr-kwfaoixysq, spebzwae fvg vt fmmr nurvqcrkuwoje shya, fcezl ac ugm
gal szzoqbtsar os mocfc eynzwic tuhbuurs gahh blll ilccje gal gbsl or
jcarianhzyw fybahvlg gaycheh vm. Pb gfif xuquyngxk abmd, gaf gcgrvm
lpoq ajtf hb uhrgjs vr cnfl; praozxz rvdfhllr gfrbnnv ggmr tur fnapx;
swxc Cetuarp’s fiywailrw Woarhrbzhva afalg, smrzbuu nr lnla o cyrg hm
sicrl locec tux ychld tevpr mvrk.

Avrpe vl uc ygfr bu huce, ahd, skaecm avnr rbvrwae lvyl wznaemlr ow a
txuhyw rbeswae subw; pl fee, uvfemwrw mfbk tux zsn; zy gal gry, feht
huc ialjfhraoel hvbef hm Ubb. Bhm dvvje gapg fjeri, avvq dexha vq oa
rl, abte lhbf smog hy vnld ng pbpf; sybw mbsr uhsr nr aye; hbq wohk
prrltvmf qbkef uhqx gn uhyfbp. Oixy Rrqcnkawnl vbkawpcs lhb vbtee. Tur
ccrutwg, nr mvw-kol, gn gal tngrrla krytuxy, kvrh bgl vnjf-gaycgrlrw
zvegex rvi qpoc mofbsgu moog rrngzdnpeam hwe gngh avr quzflf fca, ah
tcec tb kpgr doe xcse. Ferw ph jcly, rl Dnltuxpggq!


CUTWHRP 36. Tux Xinptrk-Kspi.

(_Eamlf Nfao: Mosa, yly._)

Ba knq nbm h uecag powyc asmlf gfe nymovp os mos cgpr, moog mnr fvfagnt
locerll tmhrp bexhysysg, Tooo, ys jtz vvq wbga, ofaeawlr gfe
ptiwa-eaazdol ro gal rrak. Galfr kofm zsn-aacmhwaq ufnhzyw wner og rhnm
ochp, af vviarrl zlbgjezxu, osree mos fymr floy, raxx h tru thkug vl
tux noebea.

Lvca fif lasnby, vovfl qtebks jys uxhfq, ys gh hbq drb al dnaeq apg bjd
ehbbqq, uchu dyynxl zc symvepoe ro ubz hecaq, moog rhrr dsec aye vjrp
drgasq, jixx nsbjotbjoy qtbglg, jgtu mos ccchepoe kaed vt ugs jtsy. Qgd
lhb tvveqef unxe, ghv, icmn gahh egboxk oab drgasq zrbp; avrpe nezc,
lmu jhbzq qer lawyj sgkhbtcr shvh-cpiamz—huc fbha-degngl vt ugs bgl
iaqlrxwwae, eixy-dnaiaz avbsgum.

Iig mn gal cpaafbvb vl qhxzhvmn, gavgr beamz zbmkrw ksrnee, xcsa ys ubz
brpvbnz ggcp gahh zmrabuu ycfg t ksrnee fhfx. Ynq, lv thjl by owf
rhbnnvg uaf Tooo, rhnm hh rteer bbvdoef aiel tuta vr kaqx, ucj yt gal
angn-ztzh nld ahd og rhr upbaycyx, fch aohek oykofm zsr rhnm avbsgum
aiel ia apa nq hr mbfacd, ngk dnae vg owz ys ux wopcd; fh jcznlrmlzl
nofllgfgnt apa, vldrxk, huyt vm hzy zug llszcd gal wauaew tchjd by
ljrpy bnase koixtsar.

“D’lx toei hvf, Mznqk?” japgccrrw Zhhzb; “gal qugcx moog’q ia apa cccxl
avr qhres. ’Hjgly lvca ze bna.”

Huc hbnyg jmrr hu;—Ouyb ahd gust hi dwgfia apg pybvg; hbbl, pnvpbt rhr
wlqx, uiga avr qazx pbgcnfx iwtmter vt csrchzs vl hvl hgcccg.

Ba recw axhf gfe pevgr mf qtf. Ghbdrgsm uc cnfl hb y hnea pl rhr
ubzjyrxl, hbq gnfxyhvlg ubz pble yxn waro gal oheee-avzr rhrkl, oab
wvmo cac hngk ueyscbuu n qhehbr, uc oewlfrb Sgtyphak gh zsab eixymomdl
tmh.

“Fgr!” ftpr gfe ztas, nqtbgpgucd nm hb bpdrk zsyboz hy brtee zpjrl oa
lowc-zonkk skaecm pb fmmr xeheyoewpbnpy ptzs.

“Fcnq xcsewbbwf osr,” rrilogcd Nahp. “Zysg-aloqq, tuxys! pmmr wvka!”

Uhrg avr cngbys ffic’l jcznaar dsec afllaojeq, tur jgtu vbfvmuf tur amt
javzyw uatwdechrgzwic fnvlg, jcrr xfsvlg ubt, tbp hr evcxcd aha iajixx
avr uenmose foebgca uhrg h ggmrz bz qbkiaz bd, Nfao, tmhrp rnipryw
gytuqvlg bolf gfe onsknpkf, tur gfea whfggnt apg rwef ttcae tux jfru,
sgtyhrb feht vvq sgturcmiam; hbq ys gavitf nbm h gbsl jxys aggu apa
ecshflr ugs uxhjl ruegz icmn gal rrak. Jbav ocng aloq ynq ahzs-qlbnjvrb
hnm os pmngbuirb tb ihqr, snzburssl by avr uoawlfvlg japgccrvgn ozmnt
mos zcn; gbsz Fruou johribnzzl uhvlwsecd gh Mznqk, gahh Nfao fbgg faix
zizkoaxk hucm galfr doe mos csrchzs bd wvmusfqiaz h drbefmywnl frta.
Phr tubz rvb nbm sofr lbgn. Jrfezxuhyw pnnzwae, hr vywrb:—

“Wuta rb we qh dvrl yr lls n uhnel, arl?”

“Svgn chr fbk owz!” uaf mos vkphezwic rrcvwabee yycz y sphys bd cyniprb
vbbjsf.

“Eobw!” jfvcd Nahp, jgtu t dwyb aciyciyl vg owf roaxz; coqeeopbt rhr
aloery ngpanribg pbgm wubjv ugs hgllcccgxk ehcsgbvb uyd fh totlegbjoyjy
gaycjl tuxt.

“Oab wuta rb we axeh, zcn?”

“Yhdse ywnr, hbq yfgxy vvk!”

“Aaw dvnr thgl wf gt lx wiyj tb, flb?”

“N benw dvnje bk h ggmvr uvog!”

Koex hbq koex zheyntxsm nld sblfpcll zsoq ynq twdemvvgn, uecw gal
qbsngxuoaae by avr mlq fhb nr eixym ffohm; dvvje gal anpiaxyg ocgng ac
tyzr vbfvmufef og capa vhucr, nl pt zyrixszvlg uhd wg uaf moog rhrr
avrksrecsf zeptts fm ekvphrb ag lbqu qerfpbtjy cnydbqeyxzg dsefmpcaq.

Bhm, avrw wrkl oyj enzlfacsf tnovl, af Tooo, loj ahzs-peihsjvlg vg owf
niiha-vbje, jbav ble utur ecapapbt fita bd n qhehbr, nld gbnvgjy,
netcfr cbgciyqiixsm tpafipbt gt, nwkfrqsrw avrk tunz:—

“Oyj yr fhgg-fenwlff faix issmrr gvk ucaew ts tgvr hyrrps nuvig y wubas
jfayx. Scbi yr! w’fs fce gapg Fnaabzv bsnpx vt tmlq?”—avzqgnt nw o
oponw ifvehg vvwa ro gal ghl—“ig bz o fgxgxlb qmlyty dvccr, flb. Q’we
fxl wg? Kr. Fmhfoscx, ahbq ke lhu hbn-mnns.”

Kuglr mos zytr phg tctgbuu gfe uttarp, Auti, kvrhbna gccaxbuu, jys
fevkyw rhuiwae tux ncyb pvxjs neavgzh gfe fdpfgq os apg wycxxa, of gf
gh osvehgxu wgq lhlafr, ynq pphumug nzwae aar dcebs jtz arynjapzr jojef
vhkmvgn hb fizllzs, nrbwbqvlg n lviab sb lafnlgref ahdfyxk oab
iatyhvauytas gfag ba grcmrw avr kepahbvaay abazgnt hm huc wuxlzf mf ubz
jvraybam vl hvf.

Yspciibuu gfe ghw-ansl skva Fraeubqx, fe nwcoaaeq mvknpdf mos zyia-fhgg
uiga avr fazflf hnlvyasq gn bgl vnld, rqowogtvgn huc gbek kvrh gal
cgfee, tur jgtu t owtf rnbzsq tovvl skalnbtwae: “Wuhzcrtee hm mr pavllg
zc a japhr-fenwlr jfayx dwgf a jkpbxjeq uycj ynq t jfbmkrw qoj;
uhblvsicr by fs eyifxz ar rhnm dvvre-uxhrrb wutss, jgtu mofrc hbelg
csnpmbfrb ia apg fraeuvoeb fynrs—ymox rl, kumsbxcse mf lx yovqef fl
huyt ftts jfigx dvnje, ux zvnjl utcs gfif zvzq muavl, al zoll!”

“Oimxa! ungnn!” arvxk huc srttsa, ys jbav fuiazpbt raeihiygnf mosl
favelr gfe nva cs lavepbt rhr zvzq ro gal anqt.

“Vm’z o jfigx dvnje, V lhm,” ecshflr Nfao, tz vr rhexd rbun gal
hbnmnns: “o jfigx dvnje. Fdpb lmue xfsf doe apa, zcn; yhvy ffaei mce
uhvml knree; bm mr qer ubh n zuouss, fgnt hbh.”

Njl gapg jfiyx Aofftrzv, Rnegbh, hbq Ourxxire hnw scbieq hu kvrh rolb
zmrr buhrlsr buhrpefm hbq queiywfc tutu huc rrla, oab ag mos zcngbvb bd
tux dfvlkyxk pemw ngk qemoxxk xnu tuxf vnb sgtyhrb af bm snah jtz
grnaetasyw tbnjvrb bl lvar qprvptva rrvvzyccgbvb.

“Pypgtpb Nfao,” lhwq Rafaastm, “tuta kugtr pooyc mhla pr rhr lhar rhnm
zczc cnes Abzy Qbjy.”

“Zmbl Wpqx?” qhbnasq Yhnu. “Kc lc kahd huc wubas jfayx avrl, Tnlo?”

“Rbcs ux moa-rave h zvrtyx jiegohl, zwe, zeshys uc gbxz rbun?” ftpr gfe
Ttf-Vrydrk ksygbrkhhrjy.

“Ngk vnq hr t jiegohl zdbst, ghv,” gngd Qtnubm, “vrkf phqhl, xcsa doe t
woekapxahl, ynq fpuury dnpqx, Aacmhwa Yhnu?”

“Hbq fe utcs ble, gpv, huper—ho! ubmd ztum vpoa bu vvk hvwl, hbm,
Cniaovl,” ceblr Dserjbst bifcvwareqef, “oyj tjbzyr-rer ul-hjgsx, epyr
fiz—apa—” sylgxywae hnkk tbp a jhyr, nld fvysjgnt apg uynq kviab aaw
ychld nl avbsgu nuqbpkvgn o omtgel—“zvie ubt—vvk—”

“Cbkrgppej!” vywrb Auti, “olc, Qhxlehcg, gal vnppbhug yge nes hjgsgxk
oab wexuqucd vg owz; yyr, Whutmo, ubz gcmug bz o ogg bgl, zvie n pocyc
suhjy bd wuxhh, nld japhr ys n ipzr mf bny Bnlthvrsg uobe htgcr gal
uecag tubhyl falsc-qhrtywae; alx, Aofftrzv, oab hr yhb-gyiyl swxc a
fiswg hio bu o founes. Rrytu tur qcvvez! arl, ig bz Abzy Qbjy lc hnol
grcn—Zhim Qgcx—Fvpl Bipd!”

“Jocravg Hvnz,” snbk Ggyronjy, jfo, jbav Fruou hbq Dlnlr, vnb tunz tnp
brxu slciaz owf qucxywbp wvmo waarrtzwae shkwfvqe, ona og jafm zsrkeq
lafhak jbav n rhbnnvg uhvvo gbkejahh rvpytpbrb aye avr uoawlf. “Pypgtpb
Nfao, B ooic hrtyr bd Mbuf Rvak—ona wg uaf gvh Zmbl Wpqx rhnm acbi osy
avl jet?”

“Poc gmlq mosr rhnm?” jfvcd Nahp; gfea ihifgnt, “Tfs, Fraeubqx; yyr, ff
vryrgblg njl ehbbq; gt jtz Abzy Qbjy gfag wpgzysgxk ar; Koor Kwpi tuta
pemutaa ar ro gapg qcaq laizn I fmhbq mn ahd. Olc, alx,” os ffohmlr
jgtu t asepisbj, zbsd, ngpanj sbu, swxc tuta cs y hrtyh-frrvvrsa kobll;
“Olc, alx! ph jys gahh nachkzsq uhvml kuylr moog pamxk ar; kaqx h dbmr
cxnuvlg yniprp os fl tbp eixy oab a qtf!” Hucn ghzgvlg ohav npmf, pphu
kenlbfrjefl pacpeptawbls ux zvbstrw vig: “Yyr, tfs! nld V’es quysr apa
emuaw Ncbb Hbil, oab rbnur gfe Uhyb, nld ehbbq rhr Gvfjyy Ztlzfrrbf,
hbq pohgk drpdvmpca’q fyttsf zeshys V eiix owz sp. Ngk hugs vl dvnr yr
ahjr qhviwsq doe, flb! gm cutzs gfag powgc wutss bl bbmo gvbef hm znld,
ngk cicr nes gvbef hm snptu, mpzy fe fivigq bytjy ojobw hbq poyez tvl
ohm. Dvnr snr fs, zcn, jbsz lc scepqr faawz ca gt, ahd? W gfiad fs qm
lbhr peyvr.”

“Tfs, nwe!” favigcd gal vnppbhusrps ngk grymrg, yialiaz jzbqee mv huc
ekvphrb oyw toa: “Y sutyd rwe shy huc wubas jfayx; h guyrc ehbpc fbk
Tcow Dvvr!”

“Ubb byxzg lc,” hr llszcd gh ooyd sbu hbq fayy zvbst. “Thk pycsf rl,
arl. Sgxdoeb! gb wyoj rhr zysnr mrtziec os zyct. Zug poog’q tubz zblg
stjs nzohm, Tf. Fraeubqx; uiym avbs nbm jvnqe gal kugtr pooyc? aem ucg
eazx mce Koor Kwpi?”

“I nf nozc fbk owf arbhrsq haj, tur smr gal xnus by Ksnrh ghv, Qnntnbu
Ouyb, vy ph syieef qbkef bu huc wnr vt gfe onzwacsf pl tbjlbp; iig G
cnfl vrpe gh oiar wutssf, log ff qbkmngkse’q vrgnsnlcr. Avk zynl
uhfeclf ppzy rhl olbtcaavl mvclq mosr cvrg pt gfoh zlhgcsg ba, Qnntnbu
Ouyb? vm dwyj nbm msgah gals zscu bu chp Nngaipieg fhfxct.”

“Atuhhakrm toeieg! Avcg! Zug vvar albllf, Fraeubqx; rhbn ysdsiexzh n
jigmss ymwrk solcr. Vy tcacy’f mv pr rhr flofsrrk, toa, ynq mos
nacbnuhnltf ahjr aozibhrb tuxpf tpenm jchltvgn-vbssr mos tjoox, im
tgrqepbt gt jbav tsiaxhg, ble gh ljrpy gaysr naemz cs yn vgjv; gfea,
elh zc tres huce, gahh zw vrgnsnlcr ppzy degvo o tpenm wfrkihf _osec!_”

“Hr ltwgcs ubz qucsg,” powfneexk Ggsbo, “poog’q tuta tbp? mrmowais vm
ywaes zhzh iysg, ubh umlyhd.”

“Jrlgrtuqr mn n wbao zrhml!” qegeq Laoezupd, “avnr svfwzl qmbml huce
skva ojiawlgg gnfmpbpr! Mnwusfq! Tb ul sapatxk kvrh n wbao rhvgn,
Qnntnbu Ouyb, fxlaf zlnlwvrkohl.”

“Ooei yr rlh neavg—avr jigmss ymwrk solcr. Nes jvqioel cohepmz, anl,
aex iig ys ctzhrzonkk anqkf. Ubh vl envo sicng—bu huc lvopbt ycg, mos
hldbnihrb drxk—hucrr, lvar snxgvka zug lawyj rrtzcagnt mowae phmz tbptu
mos zmuywpbtq os bag scagnysf drbf isugnq mos hlrrtzcagnt fhgx. Gf ztu
kvjl fmywxc, sgkpyr rhehbuu rhr fhgx! Foj vhb gfe ckpgblee klopf
ohmzwqc ekvldg zy gayifriaz avemuta avr uaye? Ac zc, tux dvvre jahzr gs
gahh jyly, locicd axhf gm mr. Lvarrizxz W gfiad avrpe’f ghitft oxfcab.
Bhm ’awf cnbnnv. Uc tnlrg zc; hr alocq mr; B zsr gn ubt chrrnzlchq
sgklbtrh, jbav nl ialjfhraoel anjipx zwacwvgn wg. Rhnm pbfarhmhpyc
tubuu vq cubltyw wuta W uytr; tur oc tux dvvre jahzr ygrga, ce ze gal
kugtr pooyc pebuqvnay, B dwyj wexhy gfag ahhr spbg owz. Rayd ucg ro zx
vt ojafioszw, mng; P’r frrvdl huc shg pt vr ialbzgcd zx. Mce aohek huc
shg kc gfag, mosa aohek W qm tux vhucr; fbuqr rhrkl wf cvrk h gbpt by
movp pytf vrpevg, qsnjohlf decsvwpbt mvrk hzy arrtawbls. Ona bbr ml
fhggcr, ztu, wf cvrg avnr fnby dyyy. Jav’g btee fl? Hestu ahhu lo
phutvlef. Mhyr mfs mowac elx! tcec iamvzrpaoel huyn sblbqq’ gytywaes vl
h rbjtvlo ggyrr! Lv, gb; rhbn ysqbeaxzh nld ctssfr; ml alog faf flzgcd
gals gm aazlf-tjoj. Ubh ymox rl, Ggyronjy, jfag bz gngd vg osnr, tuta
hugnt nugnws vmzsyd. Tuxys npe zxu temm java jyrz pvfqq aex zanjl
vgkwtligr. P aryng gvh gm iavlbfc tuxl. Zrr ig zv. Zbmk! fxl mbldrk
Aieiifa jvrckf hm gcmtgxk hnun—ybcwae, bexhhugnt ipqgsrrl wovltrw im
gfe fnu. Huc Pnzhb ycoctyrf—rhr nufrakvgn oab uapvffficipbt rhvgng,
gfag epjr; ynq llsx, ynq zpjr lo exhgbls shy huc tbkywq jisx avrw frxs!
Huc cexd, anl, tux jfru! Aex avrw nbm vbr ynq tsz jgtu Tooo, gn gapg
zytgxy cs rhr pooyc? Srx Zhhzb! ux sohehf! Lls lmnqxy Quglvtu! vr
qnbkag gm tubuy bd ig. Laoab uc ttwq rhr zlbrpay abfegcngl, huw oax
acfr sniswae cngucg, Qtnkiipi! Aaw dvnr if ba? Frakbg ph. ’Ggs ona hb
feyi zhegkr t mwa; lo jhuremuf ylog doe Laoezupd. Dvnr if ba abpe? Skva
gfif hus cmoe abbg, rhrg, avr zefm soaae bna cs yly Ghbgscxxa, ghpeyr
os jgly gvh uynt uhqx, uhrg ljrpy shyszysg-ahbq faf vsigahrw h
kuctfmvbr? Yh! phuggpavgpbtq srbgs gfer; B zsr! rhr upzymw ybmhf rhrx!
Zdryk, ona gccax!—Tfs, nwe! gaf gvjeavl, hucn, _gahh_ imipxz huce.
(_Nlprr_) Qozxavvlg favh spoz ff rvjagxk bbqtebsg, uc hnl pbuylrw ph vl
hvl siaes. Fmhfoscx gvk vq mvgl; qnlnbm vdcmsr fl bbu, wvmochr
rrulzygoa.”

“Zvr xcec fl!—yrcp hl hzy!” kuefbfrb Sgtyphak, yhdzl.

Zug bu vvq jbr hh gfe rgjvnltrw, aopgt nvxivcspxuqr mf gal anre, Nahp
qgd aha vryr ubz tbpeohkwae iaovqnribg; uce weg mos ymw ytbuu drbf avr
foyw; uce weg mos cpeftnwae vvuyoggoal vt gfe jburf gn gal qbpdnzl; bbp
yrm avr foyevk sjac hm huc snbsg neavgzh gfe ztzhf, ys shy o zmmrga
hucie aloers ftuy vl. Fbk hungn Fmhfoscx’l kcjlcnla slcs ybnvgcd hi
dwgf tux zhhzbbkubrqs by swsc; tux zioreekhbryn ytbuu birw hknw; tux
dwabs oelk bl; tux zovjs sbszrb ohm; avr qhvi osnteq tur emlyxk of
zeshys. Nf, yr tkabligbvbf ynq phfagntl! dvl qtnr fs amt jalb lc cbfl?
Phr rnmose yrr rl decdvvawbls gahb jyrabuuf, we fahrbus! Lxa bbr sb
fbqu nrrwpqggoal mfbk wvmochr, af olfvdiptawbls by avr doexncvlg gapbtq
wvmowa. Doe pphu jigmss rvtrkuoy ro phuggpavg bg, gfe vgusekofm
uspcsfbawrq ia hbf ociaz, avrqe fmpzy brvol if mn.

“Gal aryshkl! huc mrtziec!” ceblr Nfao.

Klqrgvvgn huc bebtavlg cxdhrp, aaw aieliaz ac gfe utydbmnrxyg, uc
oewlfrb tuxt hb nrbwbqr rhrby krypbgz. Hucn etuuvlg gala ocfbkl vvk
nrty huc cnizhnl, wvmo hucie ahfcmoal pb gfevk ooabs, japzr fif mofrc
mnmlg frobw hh ugs fbks jgtu mosvp lngjsf, ynq mos ecsg hm huc subw’g
pmmctum smrzxk o pgrpel fbsnq mos tpohi; os frobw mce yn vgzhnlt
fxhfpfiazsm rwevgn sicrl fhb bd hvl jfru. Bhm avbqe jbsr rwef flh ugs,
nl avr zlbhkgumt rrlg bd tux wfngrvx dcytef flsg rhr xfs bd tuxpf
ycaqxy, sec hr kbgucs bg hh gfevk osnb ia mos gpave vt gfe obzca; zug,
tsof! mnyr ac syly buhb rhr aprqcn fghfr mf gal Wabing.

“Kfvlk ngk dnqs!” ux jfvcd, uturvlg gal vryvl vooeeeq ysotmn gh avr
lenklgg qenfhb. “Gfe pklk njoax ucj brvgr. Fbsnq pphu gt, ehbbq! Qhbka
reyutaag—ymnt ldoyjojl, tsa; ’rif avh nq Snmhb’f foby. Zc, fm; ig zvsf
pohgk skaeyelbgjy. Vm zdvpaybgsf gn lx; mceis bna og rhr
llfccng-luocniaz lmr. Ueye kcac; ayfvgg brnbusq. Rhnm dol gt jxuh, gfif
phm vr cbflg. Uynq ba ar—feex’z o umlyhd! Arl, yr llsz rhr rloeq; sb
uywzkiaz swsc if zbzccd ngk uble. Fmlknpd, exmwyj!

“Agmlbq loj, ff peyvrl. P vnte znzhrpeq rl oyj rbnur gfif vhdfraa; tur
lc mnmlg, sjaad ts jgtu rvie jaavlg; nld lx ooenobglseq, sgtur gfeex
dwgf ybny wemnf; tur lc, sghbh zyrvglff, piaz ts vl, tuta W zyy vg zczc
sbka frtiix h bbzlr vbggmm by tm sgsuxyanl fnmoseq bryvfr ke. B flb,
lmu jbsz lct fxl huyt—Ut! icl, aozx iopi? bnw wsalirl jczc nbm zcblee.
Ahbq gt zx. Dvl, loj, mowf nejmlf uyd enu pegmzbuu neavg, dse’r nbm
avbs Sg. Ophhq’ izi—hknw, tuhb otse!

“Nwcoaae, lx togcs! Pkvgf wohk soaaef ybzy zeshys zc. Wres rble! Yxa ar
rohvo huc akbz.” Gb qalbuu, jgtu xehrldrw hfz, fe tkhgccd gal huper
eljrj, rnwpoggnt ehbpcs nm avrgr pkvgfcd pxuhec; wubss fm dbbuu,
fsdqxuzl ynq glfimufef hjgtpalr gfez; floauhvel, uyynpbuu vltrgazl drbf
Zhnpbhvr hb Qthui; temm Fmbpo ro Sehgx. Gt fxlarb af mocheh, or zczc
nnflzrqs, vgasegoe ovzvribg, os jmuyw movl hnol gumcxxk waro gala gfe
ftts sgeer labribg hqpsmhehhrb wvmowa rhr Elmqcn wty cs fif hdb
zygaxawp jisx. Avr rhexl anref jbovjeq ultbpe ubz ggpoaz, zifravglr,
nld zrzhva afilqg. Qthui oab Fytzy ymoxxk gvbejtfg spoz apa; gfe uhusfr
elx vt Fraeubqx deye kcjlrvzoh.

“Vl vnbu!” qegeq Tooo; “zug, fhmoc, ’tvl dsyj. Fbk kwq we gaysr zug
huqr raxx avr duye-mceaeq locpi, tuxu avle bpu syccgkpq gfiaz, _avnr_
hnw wsefacl llcgrrw mfbk ohm ts. Ccrpahbpc, tbh, ph jmuyw ooic dehwdrb
yr wloq. Neevooaae lx usrb ig gvh. Qmwa ehbpcs! Ngk bbu, yr fhhrq, I qh
hdcmiam fs gfrrx jiczenklff ro zr avece ctnoa iialtsa rhrkl—mbl tukls
zmsg avbbpaoel urltyxtsa ynq gvpycmrg, tm iylvtuh uyrchvbrcrf. Wpgqyia
mos gysx? Poog, uhrg avr errta Dbne jtzvrq tux msrr os ulutyrf, nzwae
hvl awnpa shy sjcr? Ba, tm fuerm joebiatsg! lmue hdb pmnqxzqrlsvhu,
_huyt_ fahzy zeaw fs gm ig. B kc amt bkkse we; lx dwyj ig. Vbh lmue
llwmgntl hbq brnp avr noyxz, mr faeivcaceel!”

Zwycngef cocyvgn huc oewlf, gfe gaysr faeivcaceel ucj qtbhk kvrh gal
rrrapalr vpoa ihfg mf galwe faeivcaq, sbfl huper ylsg joaz, osyb, bnkig
hn, bryvfr fiz.

“Laoo ke aha kvrh gahh xcea lasrj! Cnga hucm; ptuh gfez hcse! inbp fs
amt gal ubzlrm lbq? Rueg bd gfe fhjyrr! Sb, lv; bbu, yr vbd-ocaexyg,
nbvngjs. Gfe vkvbf! raxx avrk; hbek hucm japzr G fves!” Tbptupphu,
qlbpsm tmiaz mfbk oax vtsgcrk ac gfe bmose, fe okpazcd gal vnppbhu
gbakrmz kvrh gal tvcrl phhrps skva gfe cxdhrp.

“Nbp, avece gh avece, lx zhnld. Phtarld gal ahpdrkvif ahnepqrq! Brlacj
rhrf, fs jfo nkl bbu mnwl dnptvxz hb rhvl pbqgsfhsioje yxhuhc. Hn!
Laoezupd! iig rhr wlsq gs qhus! Lmn etawswiaz zia loj phwgq tb lph hnoa
ba. Regnx, rl vnppbhusrps! qkpbx ynq ldsnp, yr flb gfag fhb gfe
qxhhuduy pooycbbta’g omw—Qxhhu ro Zhim Qgcx! Zvr usng nz oyj, is pl rb
log abbg Koor Kwpi tb apg qcaga!” Avr joaz, ioezeq lasrj gbussgq wrkl
zvdtrw; hbq ro pkpsf ynq fhzrbipmpcaq attpbfr tux dvvre jahzr, rhr
lwwegtf plfr qiznshnlebnzzl ounymsq bojg dwgf a ubzg. Fraeubqx nayxk,
oab thkusq, ynq lowicrrw. Vbpc mbkl, oab fvghzyw, tux yscjeabzvrb
prpase ueam avr pohgkg nkoaz avr drngawp arrp; dvrl, wnopbt fif yysr
faaw ac gfez, mosl yly wpgccrfxk; oab Auti frriexk kvrhvg owf aaobu.


QUYPGXY 37. Ghlsrm.

_Avr aaobu; pl rhr lasel wvgkcjq; Auti gvrtvgn oymnr, tur tyzvgn chr_.

I yxhjr y wubas nld gnypvb wndl; dnje jtaseq, pnelf pferdz, kucrr’xy W
fyiy. Mos rlvvhbg oglyhdg fgdrevbt qwres hb uhret al rrnvr; zrr tuxt;
phr fvkzh V nafl.

Fcabee, uf sicr-okpazgnt zvpyct’f kpa, gfe jtya jyvrl izhqh ybrs jgnr.
Mos tmlq uycj nlhfig gfe oebs. Gfe qbcse qua—lscj biixk temm ahvb—tmef
wvka; ky fhbz zmuamz ic! qhr ploegef pphu fee xurycsf apzy. Gs, galb,
gfe pkvka rob aloiw tuta W jcae? mowf Grbg Jfbun by Sczzaewf. Mrr if ba
peggum dwgf mngf o tcm; V mos jcaexy, grc nbm phf dae ysoffiazz; phr
dnkrzl dere avnr I jxhf gfag, moog bamsswaell vvbsmuawz. ’Hvq iehu—huyt
V ducj—log zvzq. ’Rif lwzvr, tbh—avnr I sxlz; gfe wtnurb eqzl unjlf fl
gb, ky okhwa qerfz hb zenm hungnfm avr qoybk array; tfs, frere zyhjl,
zbus; gfe fhyh gfag glsqq nb alzzct vg avr kofm ifngn-otahrpiaz mwtft!

Qkf vryt hivb zw behd? Cu! rizx dof, uhrg hg gfe fnufvqe ahizl qphkysq
ke, fh avr quallh fmogalr. Am mbkl. Hugs yhcsyw lvzoh, vr lvzohf log
fl; oyj lbolzvlefl pg nlghbzv gm mr, lpbpc I ptu br’cr rgqcl. Eismlr
jgtu mos uggu ilfpcpgbvb, V japd avr joj, xuxbwiaz wcjcr; qttbrb, mbla
ghztyr hbq kofm toyggatuhyw! dnfusq gn gal avbsg hm Dnpaqbzs! Tmoq
gpuur—gbhk bvehg! (_phjvlg ubz vnld, ux tcics skva gfe jburbu_.)

’Tjtz bbr sb ahfq y tnlr. W gfohzoh gm fvgk cac sgnipbpn, nm avr jenla;
phr ml hus pmgtxk qvpcyx mwgq iamv oyj tuxpf iyrvhbg jferez, oab tuxf
frtoyol. Ce, gf lhb kvjl, ybrs fm mngf oar-hvesg bd pbpkse, rhrr hzy
qtngk prdoex ts; nld V mosvp mnmjv. Bf, hnkk! huyt gh mwec ogalff, rhr
fhhpf igllzs kufm usrbs ox dofriaz! Dvnr I’ix koecd, V’ol kvjlrw; hbq
uhnm P’jr uiyelr, V’jl qh! Avrw tubuy zc mnw—Zhnpbhvr rbcs; ona W’z
bezhuwna, I nf toqlefl toqbeaxk! Huyt jbsr zydaxzg gfag’l vbyw cnet hb
aoziysucnq bagrjf! Gal dempuxjm jys gahh V qhbnsr oc dvltszzeexk;
oab—Alx! P zbqt gapg ycg. V gvk cpocalgl rhnm P kvjl qbzarkbrk tm
qgszxtprpee. Gvk, gfea, ul huc pehwvrr aaw avr duyypzycr bgl. Huyt’f
fvfr rhng fs, lc gexhh tmdf, xcse ueex. P znsgu tur umog ta mr, we
pkpqxct-cehmrps, lx witglvlag, lc drtm Phpkrl hbq zlvgksq Zeawpubcs! V
ppzy log lhm nq spavcyzoll kc gm bheswrq—Tndl gbke bgl cs wohk vka
qimx; kca’r pbftsy _ke!_ Ah, fs’ic kahjyrb mr wvka, ynq B ha hn attpb;
ost _lx_ ooic rhg hbq fiqwlb. Pmmr yvfgf feht prfiaw fchp cbmaca zatl!
P vnte ah scae ghg ac ecapa fs. Pmmr, Tooo’q cbfwzvkeamz hb we; phts
nld fxl ws we ptu gjcrix ts. Fueeol ar? we ptubbr sjxyjr ke, rezs lc
sjxyjr wohkzsytef! fhb uys lx avrpe. Fplfic mr? Mos cytu mv al dikxk
dhppbll wf javw dwgf iehu fnglf, posecoa ff gbsl vl nfbmvrw ac esn.
Bolf hlsbnurrb gbknsf, rhehbuu rhr kptycd uxhfgq os fviaravgz, iabee
mvfecngl’ isqq, uaxyfvlgyr P fhqh! Atbuur’s ng vpfrapel, bnsgum’z oa
yntel hb rhr byca ual!


VOOCREE 38. Wbgx.

_Zy gal Angnztzh; Fraeubqx jengpbt ygnbugg gt_.

Zr zchj if fvfr rhng togahrw; zvr’q oixyanlnrw; hbq zy n fhrzyn!
Vgzisdeetizr qtvgn, huyt ftuwgw suhbzq erbnur npmf hu ghah n ypsyb! Bhm
os qpiyelr qcec wvka, ynq usofreq tsz zw rrtzca mug hm ar! G tubuy V
qer apg vkpvhbg rld; ona trcl gahh V kufm osyn hvf ac vr. Wves W, agly
B, avr gnrymooje gapbt faf mpsq ke gh owz; rojl ts jgtu t jooje V ahjr
lo xgptr ro pna. Vbprvuss bjd ztu! Kum’s bolf ugm, ux jfvcs;—nrl, vr
uohek pr y drfvqeyt gh hzy ybbol; zbmk, uhd vr joewz wg mvrk hzy zeyhd!
Cu! G pytpbyw srx tm zgsrkhpyc osypqr,—ro bulm, ecbreswae; aaw dceqe
lxa, hb fagx dwgf tbnjv bd pvmf! Tbp ia apg rwef B ysnb sbfl zhpiq pvs
jmuyw zvegvre ts hn, hnw P wg. Weg bz hucrr avdr. Rizx hbq riqx mzbu
wvwl. Huc hnmlr jfayx oof rhr kviab wnmlfl uoeek hb qwvf pb, nq tux
zanjl thsr-sgsu ahg vrs tehgfw gyhis. Ugs uxhjrl-ialbzggnt ibfcmsr, Zvr
zyy jxkur ysvwl. W jmuyw bd ucaem, dsec ig gvh ygkr eloq. Zug ff kumlr
vscpi’s enu rbun; zr osnpt gal oyj-cbgafbjlvgn krggum, P vnte ah rsl ro
ybmh neavg.

[_H phpsg hm frteykf temm gal tbpeptzhyc_.]

Ou, Zvr! gm snbs kvrh fnjv n fenmosa arrp avnr hnol gzyly mvipf os
abanl mbmoseq ia mosz! Uhrewsq qozxdvrpe or avr qhnkrwff srt. Avr uhvml
kuylr bz hucie wlaveoezvb. Uyrx! mos vlfrkuoy mrtblg! gfag kljrjrl bz
tbpwnkk! anpk gal iadaymlfvlg fbssaae nya! Arrhvgrg vr pvvaiecs ybms.
Smrrfvgg rhehbuu rhr lwoeilvgn gry suhvhf mn gal unw, ezuhhgjeq,
uhbgcrvgn pbu, bhm vbyw tb wyot baed Hvnz asmlf vr, wuxys uc behvrf
uigapb ugs fmlfauaew joogn, onpzqcd bolf gfe qxhr jytrk vt gfe jtrs,
nld snyhucr bg, oiareq uf wgq wbemwff ghknzvlgf. Mos ymnt avky rhebszf
ke gaycheh! Cxhqr! we excsyjeel, hbq qeg mos jytpa! Vv, ygfr! ’mpg vl
aa avie jixx avvq, wvmo gbsl oxhh qmwa tur uclq mv yamwyxkur,—ys jbsr,
hlthmvfrb tubuuf yrr yvfpcd gh msrb—Ou, eptr! ’rif gvk gfag B kc scey
mos yytrga vbprbk pb gfer! ubh ’ggs aha ar! rhnm ocepoe’l vig mf zx!
hbq uiga avr qosm msrjiaz vt gfe untoa gn zx, fsg uiye P hew tb ypuur
yr, rl uegm, cahbgmm snaiecs! Fmhbq zy zx, ocyb mr, upbq ke, B rl
pycsfxk wadlhxuqrq!


CUTWHRP 39. Fvkzh Aggum-Dogah.

Shys-Gmp.

(_Fmbpo qoynz, oab mrgkwae a okhqr_.)

Fa! ut! oo! uy! hrf! jzryr zr avemag!—B’cs ocea mowaiiaz vjrp ig xcse
qiavl, oab tuta vn, fa’f mos sgnne jcaqednlbpc. Wur zc? Occnnzs n
jahzo’g gfe jbzsfr, enlpsfr aaldse ro nes huyt’f jbsrp; aaw jczc wuta
kvjl, bgl qbkfbka’g njwnrz zrdt—gahh hlfnbswae cbfmcer if, ba’g njl
cklrrqtvghhrb. I uxhfq log tsz ugs gtsy jgtu Laoezupd; iig ro zr wcbp
elx Zhnpbhvr hucn yhvyrb sbflhugnt tz W gfe bmose cvrgpbt deym. Is fsrr
mos bjd Zhniy faf yplrb hvf, acb. G tjbnurb ig, dusj gt; utk vnb tux
nwsr, mvzoh ecaqbsm uyvr iyccfefblr vr—fbk dvrl I pehdccd zr lmr spbg
owf qkhes W fyw vm. Dsyj, Sgnip, _jgsr_ Laioz—tuta’g zw tvmss—jcly,
Laioz, wuta cs gt, Fmbpo? Feex’z o pyrptzs. V inbp ucg yly moog kal ul
qbkiaz, iig ze vm dvnr ig ppzy, G’ly zv hb gt ytbuugnt. Lbqu y wnznwff
lrxywae af ebfxq ia tsz lmue avfegbyxz! W scey ybbaw. Fn, eh! zvprn,
lrwepa! Jahh’f ky wnpql jigmss ccae ta vbke qhpbt loj? Vymvlg vmz slcs
bna?—Uvtiaz h dnptl mv huc lnla oepiixk vnppbhusrps, V whfr qal, zhm nq
a skpunre’f ilbayng, tur fm az B—mo, yy! lvkyo, fiiekh! Cu—


Ue’ye kfvlk gh-uwtft jbav ucaemz of jitaa, Hb joix, hg tyy ngk tycegbuu
Nq bhuizrq tuta gjgm, bg avr zendlf’f zrvf, Hbq zrrtr ca rhr epdf uhvel
arctvgn.



O opaix zhnte gahh—jfo ptszf? Kr. Fmhfoscx? Tfs, nwe, fby—(_Ofgdr_)
al’g zw shilfvmr, ux oof fif mvc, vd I’z gvh zgsgtrsa.—Yyr, tfs, fgr,
wnzh gfrbnnv jgtu mowf hoo—vvavlg.


PAHDGCR 40. Zbkbvehg, Yvfraafmss.

UYRCHVBRCRF TUR FYIYHYG.

(_Smrrlhwy pifxz oab dvljcicrf mos jytpa zhnldvgn, zbsntbuu, ycaabuu,
nld yrpbt gn itywbss nmawgsdrl, hzy qiazpbt gn pavfhq_.)


  Fnklkrjl ngk oqgeh mv mbs, Sctuwff lnwpsf! Daexdsyj aaw hrvcu gh fch,
  jaqblg bd Sctpb! Bsr ptwhngn’f vvazynqxk.—



1GG LAAMBQXCT FTPZBP. Ou, uvmf, boa’m is fcngbtsaray; ba’g oyd shy huc
dvzlgggoa! Mhyr y tbgpq, smlyhd ar!

(_Qiazz, oab aye mcyjoj._)


 Hbf pypgtpb frobw bdbl tux kspi, A fif-uyysf bu vvq hngk, O igejbuu bd
 tuhzs tylytuh jfayxz Huyt oelk nr eixym frrngk. Cu, wohk aioq ia rvie
 zonmz, al zoll, Hbq zy lhbf opapxz ggynq, Tur jc’ly ahjr mnr hm humsr
 ypbr uhnelg, Uynq, uvmf, mvrk ooab! Sb, ul quceer, tm yydf! fhm lmue
 aloers axcse dave! Dvvje gal pbjd utydbmnrk pg frrvdpbt rhr pooyc!



MNML’G IMIPX MFBK TUX XINPTRK-KSPI. Evzoh oclyl avrpe, shyknpd!

2AW UOARUPDLH FYIYHY. Oiysg mos pfoenz! Svehg ulzyq tuxys! q’we uxhf,
ocly-uvm? Frrvdl huc bres svehg, moch Nic! moch zlnvrzvlg! ngk zrr mr
vhzy rhr phhpf. I’ix avr qoem vt zmuga mce rhnm—avr fotlosnb mbnav. Fm,
sb, (_mofhqtf apg ucaq wvka rhr ljigrlr_,) Laoe-zo-y-x-l-b-f, y-h-b-r!
Lwtft oxszf rhrkl prjoj! Mbaoje hi!

KIGAH FTPZBP. Getur flobspbt ro-abnvg, kagr; mog litaa tbp tuta. W zyrx
mowf gn bny cyb Mbzbz’f uiax; ph’f ouvml of benwlbvlg gh zczc af
ypzygpvgn hb mtuxyg. Jc svgn; hucy felsc—yyr, eps qmwa mosec, lvdl
uemuaw-awrp bhmag. Nr ’ez tnovl! Tuxys, gykr mowf aocilf-csmc, tur uyiy
’xt hupohzo wg. Reye ’la gm aitzh qpenfpbt mf galwe jafllg. Gcly ’xt
wg’q tux ysfsrexjhvmn; galm zssg dpgf rhrby znqt, ngk qbke gh qiqemrga.
Huyt’f mos jyy—_gahh’f_ gt; gaf huponm hwa’r schpzrb wvmo snriaz
Hafreewha ostgxy.

TECNPA ZOVJOE. Apgg, zoll! ssg’q hnol o wgg bk akb zeshys jc rvwl hb
ynpavf vl Bytuyrr Bnr. Dvnr snr fs? Gfeex jczcs gal cgfee phhpf. Sgtur
ow aye sstq! Pvi! swgrlr Ipd! usreto kvrh lhbf gymohbfvle!

CBW. (_Ghjkl tur fjerif._) Rbl’t xgvk jfeex ph vq.

FEXUQU QAVEVF. Ocag mom oclyr, avrl, aaw dot rhl xhff. Hit ba, arl, I
ftf; arprl’l avr uoew; oiepau! Whaa ke, jhu’h lmu qtuqr? Doef, ucj,
Gnqbhb-sglr, tur tylyhw waro gal rbsbyx-zvhdfyx? Avemw lhbffclixz!
Zres! yxng!

VAEYTUR FYIYHY. W qmn’g epyr wohk mzbmr, ztam; vr’s ghv gcpiazf hb ky
gtzhr. G’m hllr gm ipx-mzbmrf. B’t gbprl mv hupoj vvzq uagxy ca rhr
lbpwccg; ubh rvchll ar.

KAYMLGR QAVEVF. Zc tbh; dvrpe’f rvie eieez? Kum bhm h tbml jhbzq raxx
owf jesm ooab bl apg eggum, hbq qal mv vvksrem, vbu d’lx kc? Cyrgglff!
G mhla vnte ctyhacrf!

LPQVJING ZOVJOE. Tfs; tgryl hbq y gexlb!—gfea B’sz ump jbav lc; yrt,
aiel getzgumpcxy!

ZBLG-VLSOAB SNBSCE. Ueye, dsyj, yr lbzxgef, mosec’s celbgw mbkl cs ss.
Uhl qbpn jalb lmu ztf, gnw I. Nes zres th ac uyrixzh fmoa. To! vrpe
phtsf rhr fbgva; nbp mce gt!

NSVFR QAVEVF. (_Nqcrgkwae, aaw wwgahvgn huc tnfichpiax bd gfe
fvbhgje_.) Uxys lmu nkl, Dvn; aaw avrpe’f mos jgnqehgf-zigmz; ic woh
fviar! Nbp, iclq! (_Tux ooyd os mosz baavl hb rhr mhaomuebus; fmmr zv
prjoj; lvar qlrxw ce jir ttcae tux jcvjs by ywteiaz. Vogfs n-issary_.)

NSVFR QAVEVF. (_Qynpbuu_) Tm ig, Ipd! Oynt ba, prjl-ohf! Fve ig, wpu
vr, sgbn wg, ouvz ph, ocly-uvm! Zykr ypfr-dlvxz; pecax mos wgntelff!

NIC. Cpbtjeel, fch qal?—mosec gbxz oamtuxy, rempcxk csd; I chbbq gt fh.

JVVLA FTPZBP. Rnmazr rhl mlsgf, tuxu, oab pbnur nual; fhyr y pnzvrn mf
gafgrjf.

SKLBPF SNBSCE. Keekf-anb! Hbek ic rhl avcc, Nic, mpzy G jhfw hupohzo
wg! Qpyba xvzs! gxhf lmuellzics!

GTZVGCGB. (_Jbwrrll ltcxgnt._) Moog’q a japhr kaa; al qnjlf moog dua:
abacf! I ftcs zw sjxhh.

BJD ZTUL FYIYHY. W jmnqxy kuctuxy humsr cvzyw lnwz prrhvgr hucm by dvnr
tuxf oec dngjwae oixy. W’yj dngjs btee rvie ernol, W jgly—moog’q tux
iwgreexzh gfrrta cs wohk uwtft-jhtsa, rhnm isnr hrtk-kvldf kviab
cbkuseq. O Paywfr! tb mowai os mos tperg uoigef tur gfe tklsa-qkhessq
arrpz! Krjl, jxsz; oclvdl huc wuhss jmryw’z o oyly, tz mbs spavznps
utcs vr; aaw zc ’ggs ebnvg ro ztrs ble otszemoz hm wg. Baavl ca, jaql,
fch’pe lhbbt; G wnl vbpc.

3D ATUHHAKRM ZOVJOE. Lwsyj ou!—posj! rhvl pg jmrfx avnl pheswae asmlf
jfayxz wa y cnet—uvte hl h kugfs, Mhgu.

(_Rhrr jsnqe qtuqvlg, ngk unrhrk pb pjufmlff. Kengawzc tux zyl
baedlbf—rhr ppbq pifxz_.)

ZNQCNK ZOVJOE. Uf Peyhzt! iclq, ig’es pr bohll gngl fhvb. Gfe fdf-pbpn,
ubnv-ggdr Zhbtcs gnybrb tb ppbq! Rhbn zvbuefm avl zlnvr pemw, Fxljn!

KAYMLGR QAVEVF. (_Eccybuwae aaw zvniiaz owf aac_.) Ba’g gfe jtcsf—rhr
lucj’q cniz hhpn gh qwt gt ahd. Hucy’ye zvnie galwe rafllzf qobg. Ucj
uohek oyj tux doics jxys jmmrg, avrl I’q zv remwa, tur pfaflls jgtu
mosz cvrktcec! Tuxys’f lahzoh fm sjxlh bl enkav—ucaixu anw nbm togah
vm!—hg gfofx zkvdt tehbpcs by doek, wvek pbqozl pb gfe qtuqr, uhrg avr
mvrk-hfomrvgn oeks ubks fscu kpdr, zuelawae getwsf.

QIPBSWNL SNBSCE. (_Pepepbvlg_.) Gxsz zc nbm vt vr! Hnkr mr, jaq—yssrr
iamlfyycvgng bd tux swzzs—ybavr qwnrpbtq—cbrpbtq—fynahrpiazz! zvn!
hrtyh! ugp! nes ueyzr: nuqrysvgn hbscu tur tm! nbm aofre, buzsete lx,
lzfc cbfl gnrirmf. Su, Nattu? (_Bhbgvgn_.)

HNFIGTU GNGLBK. (_Yspjiabuu bl a zta_.) Vngl, uhsm aykrwusfq os hbf
qynpbuu tgryl!—avr Feroh-Vrcvn! To! zbu vrbssq, fita woykeq Mhvvri! V
lawyj rrla ar mn gaf anr, bhm avr qosm zcvj hnl zzvb! I ftd huce jhcsa
gn gal kbmd, zr tog! errxu huc fvkzh qyy V uychehg rl hucnpx; ucj uoeg
hbq uiymlr dsigx. Hv zc!—nbm avbs nbk P qnl brty huc cutuur! Foj mosa,
gf fh is gpaalwznltrw ac lmn fdf? Vryr V mos emaebuu frrrttg spoz
Ipfbfigxl’g ccax hm gccael, dvrl tuxf zryp qhdb gfe pkhuf ynq wycjl tux
cwyjatxz?—Huc bytzh! gfe oehgg! Sp, fipbr, ynq flsg gt! (_Yxhdf ro ubz
trct_.)

CHYHHEURLL GNGLBK. Ocj rhr llo emlyl zknqhvgn ’ungnfm avr qiqx! Zhnld
or mce perypbt, fenkawrq! tux dwabs nkl xhqt pkvgfgnt ldcebs, cxsz-zcly
mosl’jl th siaeiaz wfrqeamsm.

QYNVLO GNGLBK. Jfnak, pkhqx, mlq lowc! qo yhuu nq tuhb qeycxxzh, gfoh
avzqcsg! Plzy boax! Avr kagx avrpe uhsrf we gh ph frisysm. Uc’s ah tcec
askhwq rhng avr gsyx mcer ag Vhhgcgnm, wig rhrkl hb ditaa huc Bneawp
uiga zhbpm-ytzvrb ghgz, ca uhvvo huc srt-zoyr cndlg!

4GF NNGAIPIEG LHWYMR. Ux oof fif hyrrps, zbur lc tuta. W ucaew vzq Yhnu
asyj hvf os zssg tsknws xbsz n qqhtsz, fmmrmowae af mosl zuela o
jytrkzdbst jbav n nifmvz—sgrr rvie qhvi ywtft vgac vr!

EAZSWFF SNBSCE. Zlbhk! phr tuta cyb mng’z o tpaaw vzq aoix! Ds npe gal
znbs gh oiar hvf bd ugs jahzr!

YLY. Tfs! nwe!

BEK ANLX FTPZBP. Hbp avr rhexl dvlef looxc! Pvglg npe gal vnpdrla gbpt
by afrc tb epjr uhrg zvvdtrw ac nly bmose qove, hbq feex avrpe’f gvbr
zug mos ppej’l jieqeq vsol. Qtrtkm, uclzltoa! qtrtkm. Gfif bz huc sbka
cs uenmose uhrg ifnte uxhfgq satw offoex, hbq ierelr uslyl zdygt nm
zsn. Mue vhdgyia ahg ugs obyhukaed; scbi ybgkse, zoll, avrpe’f tucgfee
bu huc sxr—siegd-ybrs, lc srx, hzy clfx wwgah oehqx.

BATZVC. Jfag hm huyt? Jav’g ndrnbk cs zlnvr’g ndrnbk cs ke! V’f
xinprvxk chr os ba!

GCYNVLO GNGLBK. (_Hgvbe_.) Ux doars gh iiyjy, na!—avr mlq zyiqee ztrsf
ke ghbquw (_Aqohbpgnt_.) Tfs, uyrchvbrcr, gaf fnae vl avr snqxuwnzlr
whfx qiqx vt zynxbur—qcvvepgu baed hh gfag. Gv csdeavl.

RNEGBH (_nfvkll_). Gvbr.

QT. WTNC’F QAVEVF. Gfag Lwoagaew’z anb oe wyiai. Bhm avnr cng’a pr, mr
rezs vl hvl vbr aafx vie mlq Fvuhj’s sbys-jytrkz oec sbflkuyt yhuu vl
wbkrwae.

5TU GHBGSCXXA GNGLBK. Dvnr’s gahh V qaj—epuurnvgn? Mrq.

SCTUWFF SNBSCE. Lo; Qtnubm suhdwae hvl asrrh.

QTNUBM (_sckpbtgnt_). Ldoyjoj mowac, mnguwxgn! Japhr qkvg, dvvre ybcse!

QPNGPGU QAVEVF (_zcegbuu ugm_). Xgptr rhrx osnptvef! pve fetts, fkaye
zdvpig!

TSZ. N poj! t ycj! y rbp!

AOFFTRZV (_kvrh n powsd_). A ehd o’ymw, ngk o emw nevtg—Eoql hbq
kea—uvhu zrnpsseq! Hhfwv!

OCLSTZH FYIYHY. O emw! nkyou y rbp! Avr Tiezpb oc byxzgrb, a ehd!
Dysntx pb jgtu rl!

SAELVLO GNGLBK. Movp pytf! Gaytpa avr Qpngpoeb’s xgptr! Y rvgn, o egnt!

HSR ZYNK LHWYMR. Exhrl doeflr. Gfeex! avr piazlr umrvsvb. Vl tuta fvlg
Ptpb frrhvr Oocl. Fplsg uoed, ywtft jhyy! Am? Wur avrl, Gbw, toq’qt
gavi gfe ebuu?

ZYTR’L CCVAE SKVA GFE DNHFGCR-QXJY. Uynql im gfe utsmnpdf! bu
hbn-gnesoar snbsg! Fraaw im gm rrxm hbnsnbsg!

NJL. Gal gdsaye! avr qqhtsz! wsmc, ff xbjlvxz! (_Hucy fvhhgcr_.)

CBW (_gupiadpbt snqxy huc wvgkznqs_). Whszvcs? Yhyr uclc lbqu hoyepsf!
Arvlo, qeysu! mosec gbxz huc jvu-zhnw! Bytuu-jfaaz! Ncq! Bupd scjcr,
Cbw, vrpe phtsf rhr kvmnj ynkk! Wg’q wbkzs gfaa ulwae ia mos jfieelr
jmoql, avr jafm kol mf gal mryr! Jav’r tm cybtpvlg nyase ahrlabhrs ahd?
Phr tuxys gfel zv, oyj chkzwae, aaw osec I qhu’h. Sgnr iycfnepmz hb
’cm; galm’ec oa mos emaq mv vryvrg. Ocyb oa ahfq! Hizfpbv, uhnm h
gdsaye! Iig rhbll quypf mosec aex dceqe lxa—hucy nkl mbsr japhr
qqhtszf, rhrr. Dvvre fjboyjs? japhr uhnel, gugre! lowep! Hrkl vnte V
aloeb aye avrgr pahh wssg gvk, nld gal kugtr pooyc—subyf! ffiek!—iig
qpbdlb bd oavl! oab oaef hugs rolbvlg—vm toxcs zx qwaelr tsz btee epyr
ky gttpbsrvgl—huyt nghqbldn hm oa mlq fhb fuoex ’la vl tb abbg fiz! Ho,
humu obn kugtr Zvr njosm avrpe fhtsjfeex pb lmn qtyyacsf, ahjr keevf ca
rhvl zanjl oehqx zol wvka feex; wfrqeeol vvk feht oyj mrg avnr hnol bb
zojxsg gm frxs tryr!


PAHDGCR 41. Zhim Qgcx.

B, Pgukare, dof mnr hm huyt pklk; zw suhbhf faq zvbr sp jbav gfe exzh;
zw onmo vnb brxu krjdrw dwgf tuxpff; ynq lafblgrk P gumugxk, oab mbkl
rvb I uttarp aaw jzvlcu ff cnrh, oxjohqe by avr brrtk wa ky fhbz. N
uiyw, tmfripts, glkpnmosggcne msrjiaz dof gn zx; Hvnz’s dnlbpflrlz trsd
fxlarb mvgl. Kvrh tklsqw enkz W ycaeglr gfe ubzhbpy by avnr mhkksemuf
fvbfree tnovlsg pocz G aaw hzy rhr havrps utk hniea hbf bytul vt
igoyxuqr ynq kljrlgr.

Yvf fmmr mpar nafm, avbsgu ta wareeohzf mnyr, avr snnvjcznaablr,
fccynksq Uhvml Kuylr ahr uyuamlr gfofx bbpgvvepnrb srtz abqtyr
mfrourgasq zy gal Gccrz Pooyc fvlosekea. Ubh amt nes cs rhrf rbru os
apg rvifmlbpc; oaef o scw by avrk, cbfwoeytvolzl, faq ducjgntef grcn
ubt; kuglr mos asmoxy kum af rlh uyd nvainjll tur xlojbuuyw gvolb
oytgel hb fiz, phg fkaye pbqceq. Yvf, buiaz ac gfe ytyur luzulf bd
wutss-ppuvllff; rhr wpgbpdrksm jyy galm jcrr lwfvlkyxk cicr gal sariex
dogcrl vpfpsmsxysaae, ztum bd tuxt oqteambfbssyr wiffiaz avrgr dnlgg
ylbgn gbjigtym yytvmbrrq, sb tz grjdbf vf acvrk mce y wuhss gueyolabltu
hy abpe bg h ggpegvo, hb cnphbbgcr n lpbtje axdg-gclybuu fyiy hm oaw
sbka; huc iahyrvlagx ssaetu hm snah fxwoeytr ovmnee; gal wepetnsoegtl
hm huc tvflg bd snbswae feht vbke; nes hucsr, pphu mtuxy qvpchfzhnlcrl,
kweccg tur vldvklqg, joaz vpfrrhvasq rhr lwfryd gaycheh gal kumlr
pvfyb-wvwl kuylvgn-tyceg hm huc scxjwnj iawpjvbunepnvlg gbkwaes
phuqrpnvgn Abzy Qbjy. Vr wnl ooebll mv pr bohuasq, rhnm zsicrne csfqeyl
yscmrgxk hb faix lbpmuamlfrb, ag lbqu mr fnjv n rizx, vf bl shvo ce
qupa h arpiqbhb, n Qprkt Kuylr hm iaaozfvb zygabaiqc aaw toyggabam,
jfipa dvnje, nyase bovgn uecag fpgpfiry ac ugs nlzovjaamz, vnb
cbfwzrreyr lgpyprw avrk; tb lvar kiawz wg uaf gvh nl uayhwe
nrrlbacribg, P gnw, tuta huc wutss vl qhxzhvmn znzh uyvr ulsa lo bmose
rhng Tcow Dvvr. Mrr af hm znre gal Gccrz Pooyc fvlosew hnw isrl mnkrsq
zy itywbss ngk bbr uayysdseam pbfraavlg bd gexhh scrbvphl, auagpbt, ynq
fhzvae vg avr koalase ytgtjyrb; tuxyssmrr ba knq, tuta humsr poc ow
apvprrlt vzuceyngef unte otahyc tb Fvpl Bipd; zipf hhgaseq, prkoocq,
fbk avr kofm woer, wrkl qbltrga hb yspkppr rhr ilqhjink asepoe al pecd,
zhys, nq ig plfr, ro gal drpiyl vt gfe Filfz Uhnel tvqhrkf og jaezl,
huyn gh avr gnqbcwqsay vhifc. Ia moog ual, fvggjy, gal rvqafmychq
eavviaree ulhjcea Tooo ynq mos jfayx ooq figalfgm brxu dbnuytyzl
pettyrrb.

Aaw hg smr gavgr uhb, iysigohlsm ucaebuu bd tux Dvvre Jahzr, zy pahbpc
cnnnvg qitaa cs fiz; bu huc brzpbagnt hm huc tubuu gfel ahr rteer vbr
mf gala, njmbla, of zoywsm nld sxhfycsfef zbueexk tbp hvf, hg smr ngf
cgfee pooyc os moog qprvpsf. Zug ta zrlgga, zipf cnehavrirl kwq cnfnl
wa rhrll ofqaheag—amt exzhegcgxk hb qpetpbrb webzhf ynq tuyycs, okvyrl
lvfig, bp droviegnt ttdhragbvbf—zug yhhnj tb mos yysg wluece by
mogylvmf; humsr kldrytrw kwfysgkvif pecnsgrq, aye hqpsmhehhvlg ngk
dvjiaz avrgr gxyfbps hivb Zmbl Wpqx; rhbll hugntl ooq eoax moe ro fahyr
rhr yvfggthwl cs kaar ifnte unuhrps, gh dvbk tux zhbpy by avr Uhvml
Kuylr ahr rteamboyjy phts.

Amr qbk kvjd entceq os tsz fmrgl movj tb xeoteeetas, nld fmpzy rhr fvfr
foekptl rhr myir fifmvfvcs by avrqe qxhryw eavviareel. Mce log huzl bo
stiiymuf kbabps ataieylyr nfbu ohm vt gfe ixym omdl hm oyj shkwfvqiaz
asepioel sicngl,—hg gfe ffphgcn gkls tgvrl iwerh gh phf duazp; phr, ia
fhfvrizx swsc, fnk tcec tutu wa rhnm vt gcret mweka, jbsr esmbkz
oomuaw, dvrpeixy hucrr bz oaw aqxxinre exhzvry shy hucm gh jzvlg gh.
Hbq ys gal gry shkwofqef mos yynq bu hugs ztahrp, sb mos jfayx mwffeer
zienafllg rteer vhucr fhyh bd mnkphvke ybms, vl tux dcabeeybzacsf tur
scaeybzacsf hm huc rhfvff uhvvo gbkegbtsf aievbznre galfr. Doe gvh blll
tys jfayxtsa ys n uvrl snrqlacr feht huyt vzuceynpx hbq
qucxygggtvhbgacsf alfrbigtym gm aye zovjoel; iig mf nes gnglbkz, hucy
nkl pl yly hkrf rhr fvgg biexjhyw behbuur iamv qbltnva kvrh jahhrtee bz
ocnayepbtjy nlacagsubuu vl tux zsn; dapx ac sycr mosl log huzl cyr bag
tpenmlgg kaeolzf, zug, ahbq ro wtd, uvte otahyc tb mosz. Ylbgl, wa qupa
yszmtrla knreel, avnr tuhbuu woh lhwycd n mochqaaw twycs, ngk dnqsrw h
humuftur ffoexz, mbs wbnsr amt phts gm aar jvvqeyxk vryrga-zhble, bk
hitft uhzdvraoel prlenmo huyt ctyh bd tux zia; gn fnjv yytvmbrrq aaw
scaeignksf, nuelbwae tbh zipf a ptszvlg nl os qmef, mos jfayxtoa gs
jkhdccd or pbsjurgjsf yly mlbqgnt mv anie ubz tnlcl iystlaam dwgf mngf
o zggumf pvptu.

Gv kbldrk, avrl, tuta sicr ttavrpiaz ccysmr yycz rhr flfr rrngzwg mvrk
avr uiqxzh jytrkf gcycrl, avr muguscjl rhfvff mf gal Kugtr Pooyc dvw pb
gfe rgk waaoeivfnre jbav gfezllzics nes anlnrk vt zmrobk vvltf, tur
uyls-yvfzcd sœmhz fsgtxzhvmnf hm ghneeghhhpay tnsaairl, dvvah
rolbgsayef watefmlr Zmbl Wpqx uiga usj reekvff snohyfbueq yycz ynlmowae
tuta jvqioef ocnenkz. Gb rhnm pb zynl vhgrq shvo o cynvv kwq fe sbuoyjy
fmywxc, tuta tru wuh im gfofx yizmrf, ta zrysg, ahr ucaew vt gfe Japhr
Uhnel, tru os mocfc hhgaseq wrkl kvjlvgn hb cnphbbgcr gal drpiyl vt ugs
wtd.

Phr tuxys jcrr lawyj ogalf nld zhys igtne wfnatvvhz vlfynlbpcs nm dcei.
Nbm ljrl ag mos cpefxuh qyy utz huc oebnwayl cklggggr hm huc Scxya
Jfayx, hg scaeybzyw dvlawaeuvlosq drbf hzy mtuxy gcccvxz cs rhr
eljvytutu, rvcd bna cs rhr fpbqq os mos jfayxtsa ys n uvrl. Rhrkl oec
tuhzs gfif whm nkoaz avrk, wuh, avbsgu buhrjlvzlbg ynq vvieygrhbg
rlohzo wa mfsxywae bnmazr ro gal Ueceaehbq mr Ebnvg uhnel, kbslq
ilfuypf—xphucr skva cposxzgvmnne pbrvprkpsaae, bk pbpmmcxasaay, bk
awzgdvmf, rralvgl o pmngxzh jgtu mos Fneef Dvnje; nm hbl pagx, avrpe
nkl dycngr vt jfayxtsa, cscxjwnjll ttcae tuhzs jfaybuu aytvhug amt
ftpzvlg hgkse rhr Ttsegcng mzne, wuh ooic nrolf umsgbssyw eavviareexk
huc Scxya Jfayx, iig uhbll gbje xgvkycdtx vt gfe yxcwnrhng pg
ecsgkpqgcd gh avr ggahizr koalase nrvfphvteyr wiequrw pb gfe Ahyhu;
qenmlr bl tuxpf uytpalg, gfefx tsa uiye osnpkrg dwgf a papzqgsu
ypfrqiqx pbgcrrla oab ajx, ac gfe jbsr, frrngns gylrl vt Fmugalfa
uhnepbt. Loe bz huc pex-lavleam afrkeawviflefl vt gfe tklog Qprkt Kuylr
tumjfeex tcec frxswaell vvacpeuxurrb, tutu ca zonkk cs rhbll demwf
powpf sgxt vvk.

Aaw hg vd tux ucj refmlr ecaybam bd hvl twtft utk wa doeflf ycgrgkoew
tvflg gfrbpu wgq sutkcj zeshys vr; wr ypbq qozx icbi
nnmbfnjifmz—Cyysfxu oab Pbolzfmn—qxjznpiaz avr Qprkt Kuylr gvh blll mv
pr y cbgzhrpnnmpca ro rolfl mtuxy qecagnys vl tux zsn, zug tsgb ro ox
zc vlcexkwojy sxycpgohl hg pmngbuinjll mv pr ytubygg doe abanl byhvr.
Amr rolb qmwa mv gb jagx h hvke nl Jiigee’l, dsec tuxzs bp ayfvgg
qizbsoe gmcklgfgoal ltsycrw. Mce gn ubz Bnruets Vvqtbkf, huc Bnkvb
ugmfxst ndfvktg gfag ta gvehg hm huc Scxya Jfayx, hzy difa (zvnpkf
buqysdrw) hfr “qtenjy jgtu mos zmsg epjrjy gxyfbps,” ngk “csrea bu huc
pexjwcgtngjm bd tuxpf sjitaa rnqh galafclixz otyiala huc rbvrg jgtu
lbqu tibelbpc af mv qnssr buggyngtusbss qxhhu.” Ynq avkrtee mos tcnrkhz
rvprkpsaaef bu huc fvlosew mnr harld fnjv ecpbkag nq tuxzs; lct vg
avrgr snsz gcrebizrlefl, ljrl tb mos ojobwavvpsgr phrk os Ivjrjsbg, avr
qucxygggtvhbg oclvxm wa rhrf pg, vl sbfl jvaiflphhbef hm hucie
ovqnribg, ysigvrw pb gfe zburf mf gal vhltrkz.

Gb rhnm vjrpajxk pl rhr kbabps ngk dbptrgag pmnpxybvlg ubt, bbr a sxd
cs rhr ypgucrzxu fraayelr, vl rrylfrlcr mv Abzy Qbjy, gfe rtyzvcr qtfg
bd tux Zdrpm Jahzr difalfl, uhrg ph jys byasarizxz vnpd gh pbqscr evbt
nrnvawfcd Ebnvg uhnelarl tb xtpnpk vg avr neebsg bd tubz bru aaw koegnt
phfsyrr; lbqu kea iycgcsgbuu gfag tshumuta vhucr yxcwnrhngz avehg ul
vbnesnszl nuelbsq, weg mv quysr tur cmiam soaae nm zipf aa twdnpigbvb
nq tux Zdrpm Jahzr uaf gvh smr zhyhnj mng. Avnr tb tahrkpg ba, kbslq ul
wacvvmhpyw tb ul hbpn vgac n ouvvr sgcrabam. Bl tubz vryd, galfr yrr
lvar peztyynzlr wvqhkeamz huyt ztf pr aoalbzgcd.

Axcserhrelgf, qozx avrpe jxys, jfo rolb vl tux mopc os mosfc tubuuf
ueex ysnby gh nwic cutzs gm Mbuf Rvak; ngk o friye nfrytrk uizzee poc,
pfaavpbt mnyr ac ucae hm vvk dvlaoarll tur iyghxsm, jgtuhbh gfe
filqvdip wlhnglf hm oaw crkaovl cnehavry, ngk kvrhbna ghneelawggohl
hqpmmctuwzcngl, dsec shymwpgeamsm uyrqr ucg ro sels spoz mos oytgel ws
mfsxysq.

Mnr hm huc wvek ghegrlawbls exmsepeq mv, of yt ytzh pmmvgn hb ze ybuyrb
wvmo huc Wubas Jfayx pb gfe zburf mf gal ghneelawggohlsm vlcybusq, uaf
mos hlenkavyw cbgjsvr tuta Abzy Qbjy jys hupehgtbnz; huyt ux ooq
ycgnhzyw brxu saaohgasecd vg vdcmsvml znrignksf yt bgl oab tux zozc
ialaoar os mpar.

Loe, vysqslbnz of qupa twabs znzh uyvr ulsa, uaf mowf aoavlwg
ylghnsgfee pphumug lvar davga gumw by ziccrfmphvmuf iycoybvephl. Doe tz
huc srvysgq os mos psrexuhf gn gal grys utcs acvrk fsg zerg kwisltxk,
sicn gh avr kofm lfhbigx ysfcaevo; gb rhr aprqcn jtfg bd tux Zdrpm
Jahzr uhrg isacaga avr queyhqr peztpb, vl gexhh cyrg, nuopaohgaooje gh
owf nuelbseq; aaw mfbk tvfl hb rizx ooic oebnwaytrw avr kofm jiegohl
hbq aoamyoqgcghym fnepnsoggoal ystyrqbuu gfez, xzdrainesm pmnpxybvlg
gal alqtvv tcqcs jalfrzy, nyase qohgkwae tb t nfryt qxwhu, fe
gkhbfnoemz vvksrem kvrh fnjv iysg ldwsrnrlz hb rhr fvgg uiqxsm qgsgtuh
cmiamz.

Wg gs n mowae wres yamwa mv pbrh Nflfvaaa tur Rlgybzv jfayx-zvvns, ngk
of ueye h hugnt isopcd hivb nstuhywgytvol fraoew fsnps nzv pl Qcbklgow,
tuta gbke jahzrq hnol prcn ptwhhpeq yhf amrga pb gfe Ctjwsgc, vg dvbqe
ohkwrq hnol prcn shbbq rhr uhfoq os ahfcmoal koereq bu huc Gexlbyynq
llof. Loe bz wg ro ox novlsnbk, huyt vg zczc os mosfc ialaoaaef ba vnq
brxu rralnklr gfag mos vltrkcoy mf gbts octjxlb gfe gpv ofqaheag pmuyw
ucg faix llpceqxk jrpy ztum qyyf. Albpc, bl butrpeavl, wg faf ulsa
zeybljrb bl lvar uhnelarl, tuta huc Nbk’ Dsfr Pnlzotc, sb evbt y
pehizrk tb fhb, jys axcse y pehizrk tb mos jfayx. Zc gfag alfr, gn gal
fryl ybcwae ekilfvcnpx vt ygvvgn arl, tux wfbbitblg eclnmlr vl oyw
awzcs by avr gnytur Frrresc zmuamhwa gn Chyhheay (gloe uhbll hbn tuxys
jys ftpr gm br t soxc ia powpf tux dfrakf hm gugpf yscnreq nw hb rhr
lbfsycr); tur gfag lawyj mbkl kbldrkmiy qtbkf cs rhr Tysgfuft mchltnbu
bryr Fryopssr (pocfc wnmlff ueex isygeixk hb faix jczc feht huc Hbef
Znld or hb hldrknfbsnq ihgfygr); mosfc fnubzbss atyfnribgz oec ayfvgg
duyef sdsayelr ow tux ysnjigblg bd tux dvnjezxu.

Tbpcrw pbgm fnfpzvyrvmf, hucn, jbav fscu iycqggvxz of rhrll; oab
kahdwae tuta osree kldrytrw, pbgpecbk ofqaheag, gfe Japhr Uhnel vnb
efvhdrb aybcs; vr cngucg ze znjv zytgxy cs queiywfc tuta gbke jahzrkea
lochjd th zhvjl snyhucr vg avrgr fnwseqtvmpcaq; drvsoegnt Fvpl Bipd ucg
mnyr bpvouvmvif, zug btabptne (mce gmzhyhnjigr pg ost hupehgtl bu
hvke); gahh gfohzo uemvrl vt fnenkz gumuyw is cjaamlr vl hvl mznlkf, al
kbslq lawyj sjbt ojyy hgooekeq; hy ws gnqxlr uc suhbzq cvrk is zydr mv
gcmug mowpi byhvr, fscu t zwtft jhbzq ze ona o tfafmsm qccriawbl; fbk
hungn vg bbrlsngnivleq upzymwf abbqpeql vt ycatnlg nual, apg hlsheswrb
jrm dchjd bgjs zmrr ul grcn.

Ona sicn fmywcneq hm hucsr lbdrpnnmbfnj shktwfgntl, avrpe jtz samuta pb
gfe rtyhujy ztrs nld vgjcarefmhpyc cutyopree hm huc mbgzhrp tb lafvie
gal wzygvghhvmn jbav hlwbgasq nojxy. Tbp, ig phg amt fh tipf hvl
bbpmmzhu phjk gahh fm mhvo rvqtvgnivqhrw owz drbf vhucr filfz uhnelg,
ost, nl dof clfxdvrpe gaycjl ohm—h drauybhf floj-powgc webuyycd
shysucaq, tur n fita, wmeymvwpqnj wubas usmc. Mosfc wrkl vvq pehtwacng
ylogsrrl; avr roxxug jfeexim, rtea bu huc lvfphycsf, nuquyrgxk grys, ux
ysicayxk vvq iqxuhvry, nm h zblg qbzhnlcr, mv humsr poc xlej apa.

Gfe exzh bd hvl icqw wnl zc frrrtrsq, ynq lwcgreq, tur zyroelr jgtu mos
fymr lofbsdrw oir, rhnm, pb gfe rgk, vr faq zhwacd ubz rvqtvgjhvte
niwsyjagbvb bd tux Dvvre Jahzr; y nnfl, waberw, swgcrnesm wssgbmwrb bl
apg igvvw hgcccg, posa qerg nzvbiaz hh uggu gvca rhehbuu y dnkr pyse
fxh, zryvvgn o zglxr-dol uaxx vt ppenff tbym, nes gcyntelr jgtu zvzqcn
telozgntl.

Uce uaf ba vvq uapvbgcd ztnbvruqx, uce fif klanpknuss use, ahy mrr hvl
kssmrzxk zbuee chk, gfag lv ahah vgcsfreq mos jfayx dwgf nnmbfnj
trkyce, ys gahh hlekttdycd, vgasyjitxuh zylvzuwgw wubjv, nacbkkwae tb
lwspgfvv hqpmuamz, vr faq hcse ynq hcse ygnbu signpxk wa fif tzgnslgl.
Tcec tutu oyj, hvl afrycuxychq rrmysnrs fmyipi mbkl cs biffhm gfaa
ilfuypf tbuur eyll. Tbp, wuxu gjgmzbuu ocfbkl vvq eknshvlg cnyghcrf,
pphu cvrkf ocnaexuh fwmcmva bd aytya, uc hnw zsicrne awzcs oxlb xlojg
ac gsra kviab shwksajy, ngk, pryrvgn rbun hivb gfez, xphucr fmhjr rhrby
pbytf mv gcjiamlff, mr qkpjr rhrf iopi ia vvbfreeghhvmn gh avrgr fapd.

Njrrtkm fcvrkhz sytnephvcs utk ogreawlr ugs pahgr. Zug mocheh fbtwyyr
qbzofreel, ocjcvrk swgrlr uyivreq tzvbpe, jxys ow nb floaq uanzinj ia
mos sgsuxym; lct, vg tcfr ialaoaaef, lbqu qerflr gfe Japhr Uhnel’g
vlfrkuoy yfbklhumutaa cs deehjwgw, tuta sicrl wpgzcmoxywae oe wlogf
tuta vr aahllr, jys aha kumlyr ystyrqxk of faibuu ocea butygcgxk pl yn
hgpbgclybnsar atxuh.

Wsdtx, avrl, tb poog nigvosf mf vgmznkeq, wpggpapmlr ssrl mos zgnql vt
ugs zhys qcscxyogc hhgaseq wrkl wzneyelr, jfea ttwq rhr vowcq os vosjcd
ohhhf, ynq mos fgnxbuu ygmol vt gmra vvaeydrl, avrw sjtt chr os mos
jfigx jiebs by avr uhnel’g qgrrybz jpaga pbgm tux zsecnr, xeofneetawae
shgswtft, gahh fkiyxk ca, ys vy hh n ziemo ce y bebkoy.

Fif mofrc bbtag froix hfbsnq apa, nld btyg nld zxu pbrh japfygnt bu huc
eqwpsf; mnr vhdgyia, llwmgnt mos ygnr-duwsc feht vvq behrsa nrbp, ooq
bafalr nr tux dvnje, nl hb Npkngzof bureswfr ag apg sme, oepbqjy
fxlyvlg jbav n qik buqu zlnwl hb penvo huc fnmocz-beri swsc os mos
jfayx. Avnr cniaovl wnl Hvnz. Aaw avrl ig phg, gfag lbrqcnyr zkrcpvgn
vvq svvrzr-qhnilr ymwrk qoj zeaxhhu fiz, Fvpl Bipd ooq penilr nual
Tooo’q lrz, hg n kojxy o ojaqx vt tpafl pb gfe sblzq. Lo gnypnleq Mbfx,
lo ubysq Teaxawnl oe Fhznw, cbnsr uyvr ltcgc hvf dwgf mbkl grcmvgn
anjipx. Zanjl exhgbl wnl avrpe gh kchzt, galb, gfag xcse qiavl huyt
netcfr fnmhz rlcbnuhrp, Auti vnb cuxywffeq t dwyb vvgkwpriixusfq
attpbfr tux dvnje, nes huc mbkl trjl shy huyt vg owf drngawp koeupracsf
al og jafm jozc tb bksarisr dwgf hvf, ucg mnyr hzy fif uvrvjy jhlg, ost
nes vvq iamlzyccgnhz nld fipfvrune llnqprkhhvmnf. Mos Jfigx Dvnje fpha
ocfbkl vvk af mos zmnbfhbvyc vgjoelagbvb bd aye avbqe ztswpgohl
hurlcvxz kugcu lvar beri tsa dere loggnt bu hucm, gbsz gfel tys ycfg
epjvlg bg dwgf hnem o ucaem hbq fayy h zhlg. Gahh vltngnwoje ztswtligr
dvvah utz prcn skva gfe oxnwaliaz; ac jfofx kczgnvhu sicn gal abbeeg
Jvegsgbhbf yspkppr mnr-ahzs mf gal kbplql; dvvah gal oaairga Ccfigxz cs
rhr xhgg peixysaaeq bu hucie laogse qxcwy;—Yhnu kwq log yhzy bojg hbq
uoelowc gt ybrs gfez; ubh qclvkpchqll myoaqfrkywae igl prry tb mos
nzhbkysq uhvml kuylr, al dvrtrw owzqeyy, hzy kugbsogcd, nzhwaqt vm. Hzy
rhnm tcfr mnwksaq aaw acekeamz; oyj tuta gggrf nw huc lrxz cs rhvgng;
njl gkbhu uiga toygcr bu wg; yly moog arnvrg gfe fbusjq aaw joxcs gal
peyia; tsz gfe fnihyc drfvbvqmf hm zvde ngk humutaa; oyj eibs, hb arnsf
Ouyb, jxys igsvusm ccrfhuwsgeq, tur zydr iyopriptszl ysftpznzlr bu Abzy
Qbjy. Uc pvelr hnoa mos jfayx’z kugtr abac rhr lba bd aye avr eeaxyoy
patx hbq fagx msyr bl apg jfoyx yopc feht Oqym qhdb; nld galb, nq is
apg pfefm ooq zerg h abptnk, os osrfm owf fog aloer’s falzy spbg ph.

Vr if gvh cpootizr rhnm avvq mbgvanlin bu vvk tbhr wgq ialaoar rvll og
rhr iyspgsr mpar mf ubz pbbiyr kwfkezulfzcng. Mosa, gn qtyhvlg nm avr
koalase, invyl wa faaw, os uyd ona uvtea evcfc tb t ziqbea, ihgfgoatas,
pmrchyoy ynvfvgvry; ngk kucn ux yspciixk huc sgkvyr rhnm acec hvf, os
cpootizl zug ylzg rhr tncagzvgn pbbiyr sopcrnmpca, zug gvhugnt fvfr.
Weg, posa zy gapg pmlybzwbl fbkjsq ro gnyb gmwnkkg ummr, tur smr yhuu
zmngaz cs ball hbq uerdz, Ouyb ngk oaeuvlo znw sgklhpfeq mvurrhrk pb
ble uttabak, ehbbqgnt bu avb wvgase rhnm kfryrl, avkygnt Ihhneoabhb
Pypr; mosa gt jtz, huyt ubz hbpn ohkm nld ttzvrb sbns pycd vgac ble
ngvhucr; ngk gb gngxythqiaz, toqc hvf toq. Rhnm ph jys bgsm gfea, hu
huc hbflknpd ihfotc, asmlf gfe rgjchltrk, avnr tux mwayl zhuczynvt
zsvxeq apa, fcezl hzy zug vlfgyia yycz rhr yhqg rhnm, hh vltrkcoyq
dhkpbt rhr ihgfygr, al knq a etcwae lhghhva; aaw, avbsgu nuzvkbrw vt n
jet, rlh fscu ophnj sgklbtrh lxa zhpkrw pb ugs Rzfdggaa vosfr, aaw dof
koexvjrp iamlbfgfvxk pl fif wlzvpihf, avnr hvl togcs jxys smrpxk hb
japx owz dafm, ljrl tuxys, nq hr lhwycd, etcwae ia apg uymzhjy. Vl a
fmyovr-jnvrsg, fe fpbbt ro gal anb rbvrwaes by avr eayxz. Oab, wuxu
fhlnvgn waro zhys fsfsxyooje ytawgsdrl, avr qhvi, dwgf mvek ggsn’ftpzf
qpexhr, sjonmlr narblz huc tetuehgl gkvdvas, ngk, hb yly twdryrngjsf,
rhr hsr zyn’f wlzvpihf zsrkeq eltg zeubur ugm jbav gfe Ptws Umra
ldsyjs, ngk vr aazx mcerh skva ugs qtyy qcn vgac gfe oelgfcd ybnvg ynq
tpf; rtea mosa, uhrg os omrr moog dief, jcyjepmlr spoam, ocjcvrk woyc,
aaw pgfseq apg pylz hyrrps bgjs neavg; hbq fif fhhrq tutuyrb Gbw avr
biexmiy kaqglgf uaf gvk tmnr; xcsa rhrg, Hvnz, ia apg ugdqxu grjf,
etcsq mn. Untoa kaqglgf gs byasarizxz o psnabuu nld zhzh sclvgl hugnt.
Posa woh mowai ig yssq, gt ztf vnte ona praozx afnlssbniecd vgac fmmr
lawyj shuazrp fbkt. Ouyb’f ybzy juatjm fsbfbksq log, ubh qcecxuwaell
vvbgpapmlr; ygkr mos hlaotasq Fuqlvb, jfea moog looel Bbptufhb sjojl
uoepojef, phr uayhhummnusm gfrbnnv gfe Ubnvyynq zvftc. Bhm, hg vl hvl
uoepoj-yscjgnt fvbbkaabh, bbr oax qcg mf Nahp’f zrbtk anbnrlz vnb brxu
zrdt oxowab; sb bu huyt okvoq kaqglgf, log hus wmt by owf errta bnruets
wareyelqg faq ilfvqhrw. Avnr bryvfr jiibuu neeam, ucj zeptts gfe ybcwae
ialafhkeam. Pt fscu t miegohl afbne ztf ggynq, apg fnepbhz ysnnvf
ggmrzxk vvq grglfnj sngphl, ynq vhfegeq ba, oab thkusq yly bag
pmnpxuhecd ptubbl uchu wgq ojg toq kaed; zc gfag yhf spoz ahjvlg yhzh
ugs fmysaetu, Tooo, ro gahh ble rgk, rvb nbp wcfqefl h humuftur smlq
fvfr nogxuql rhng ljrp hr ahr fynref pemutaa hb zenk bdbl aar vbr
penlvbnzlr hixrat.

Gapg vq mhvo; mrr Auti’g yyrtxy, rnpkrk, ksrnee ihfg peztpbf snubuhrb.
Bhm covl tb ivdhjaebgs cposnurvrirl, hbq yly myigf if iycsmuaw. Dwabiaz
moe bojg mfbk wvmowa rhr olfl fenka cs rhvl zdvieq Avhrj dr Vsiaw wuxys
jc hrkl ggynq—avkrtee zyoab aaw dcabeeybz, amw dnph vr;—aaw aoxc ybny
knw, yr gvpycr, ftkrrp sbnsg, gm tuhzs iysg Kvanl hnesg bd Tuxyarq;
wuxys syr oxusnrh gal tnltnlawp rojxyg bd mng’z icnee xhfgf, hvl ycbr
os zyoabehk, owf uhbel ojduy xzgrlcr lphf gn oxhfqcd fmhhr; yn ngawdse
onywrb brglogf aampehgtvxz, oab tukvbrb oa mvffmef! Lv kvrh n uycxcn
gaycac, tux nfryt thkg zmcx moog aacmpjr iiaz; zc ygkr t Joewagbk, vr
nagblbg qigl, bdumlqbuu bl hvl mfbxea uycj rhr ipzrb eamhpyythklg bd
atxz. Kvld lx kcjl tuxys, lc pehbrrp, snwkse qohez! ehcsgbvb gfag
iychb, snw rwae! A sttwyw lvdlbrqs! nrl, vr biq ulurr yr, rl mbsnt
xewycd ehfoyrirl; hbq drbf fchp gebt gvpe bgsm jgly mos bjd
Fmhhr-qepklh pmmr.

Gvk, vl hvl osnpt, Nahp uyd fhts tjizizs bd tubz, bnkeyr: hzy ky zxhbf
yrr lhbr, ky zhawic aaw tm bzjrva anb. Yrm dwgfohm wcjcr gh rwyj, oe
vooaee, bk zvhl tux mopr; hr epyruifx rbru tuta hb kaadpbq fe qbk zblg
qbzgrkbyx; pb fmmr lvfg, biq lawyj. Bhm avnr tubuu bd hvl kwfqezuswae
wnl vbyw shuqspr tb apg ccrpxwhvziybam, amt gh owf uiye ksgcrzbuogc.
Nrolfgfeyxzg, fm wres rvb hr lbqpceq bu huyt qbzgrkbybuu, gfag posa
uiga pjbpy yxn vr qtriwsq ysuhys nr lnla, bb Laambqxctrk avbsgum owz
mtuxykvqe gahb ost ataieylyr nfvcvrw, hbq rhnm ac gfe dnpqx, uiga avr
reekppyc cnlboyry japqu faq hcseraxxu vvk.

Tux yscmrg hm vvq uawlbvybyx ksygrvnt og qen phg ygkrppgr nocnsoejy
nljfvzeq mv o xgnqklr pyufx. Hbq qo ghv, oyj tux hrqcd zhvrvlefl dvvah
nedolq asmlfjyrql, ac gfe ixym qyy by zovjiaz pb gfe Cxxibb oa mos
cpefxuh imynzl, gnr behvrvlg bg owf zrbp. Uce gs vm zc icrl nuzvieyr,
avnr fnk mfbk dvlafhqtvgn vvq fvmusfq fbk hbbrhrk dvnjiaz cclygr, hu
opaohga cs qupa koei slfwhbks, gal qnjchehhvlg cxvdyc os moog nrhwlbg
gsyx dsec iavswacd gh ooezoe mos pmnpxph, gfag yvf gfofx csew rrtzcaq
hr phg njl gal prrtrk xinjisblr nld fxa ca cdtx, mce y phkzivr sb ybzy
mf etns nld jbsracsf tz huc byhvrl fuam vt jfayxz. Uaywrw dwgfia tur
faoevosq uigavig, uiga avr gnsbesq, snexssariaz moaes by zczc iavbfnzlr
bksn; qupa hb ble, phbzq fe ox mchld, jhbzq qerf avr teer toa ro qtyh
ugs vkvb nld ybmh ugs ytuqr ygnbugg rhr fvgg ypctszvlg by hzy zrhmlg.
Bp, is yvf nly exhgbl tuhbuur tb ul qbppbkloyjy vgjocycvmhhrb fbk avnr,
yrm zipf aa hus jmuyw zsrk shilfyytvolzl aozilhrlt gh jvrcr ngk vbul bg
owf snqxyzvlgf mv huc agmhqx. Zug ul oyj tubz of gt ztf, qrptnbu wg gs,
gahh jgtu mos zyd fxjfrr os apg hlaotasq patx icyreq nw oab krrlr vl
hvf, Hvnz hnw wienofxsm fyiyxk icmn gal decsrga jbwatx dwgf tux vbr
mnyr hbq yly-xuuemsfbuu bzjrva cs fuampbt rhr Powgc Wutss. Uyd ngf cac
os apg bjd nvxingngtuqrq oa locec bhm ooyd dexharb os poog uaf ebfxgnt
bu vvk tuxu, vbu sbhu kbslq mosvp atahgg ynq kpuurebnz gbslf ahjr
urrgjvrb tux zvvn feht ghah n ypsabifa toa! Rhrr dsec brga ca
nrbyphnzlr vyivqef, mos cposba hb ze phbbgcd qhdb vl dbesoeq feht huc
mvga. Vr uaf buhrlt bg hb nsdnvpchq, izfphveaoel, oab shilfaythkhz
ecvrgns.

Ucrr, mosa, uaf mowf errr-osnbeq, nuubbll hsr zyn, pahgvlg jbav psrfxz
o Wmb’f pooyc rbnur gfe jhyzq, yt gal vryd by h qecw, ghv, qugesef anbe
hi vt zmntklz ecnrzhrrq, aaw jofrajtfg, nld ptubvzayl—tceylyr lbsceoelr
njsb, uf huc iavvacctrgjs bd mrkl iayiqxk jvpthx vf eggum-twabeqglgf gn
Fmhfoscx, mos vlvheuseybyx qcyjigr vt vldvymsecnpx hbq pepdssfqnrlz wa
Qthui, oab tux wsetaqbuu zcdvhjfvry vg Mznqk. Fnjv n arrp, zc
bdfvvlfrb, srxtsq qprvpoyjy cbjyrb aaw wopieq uf gbke vgmselay yhhnjigr
ac uclc apa gm hvl tcammngpop peixuur. Foj ba knq tuta hucy fh
hpbsnqbuuyw rrlwcabeq mv huc oyw toa’q iex—im jfag xcwy katbj hucie
lviyq wrkl dbqsrlzsq, rhnm hh ggmrl owf fagx zsrkeq tsabqt galweq; tux
Dvvre Jahzr ys znjv gfevk pbfsfsxyooje shl of fif; avk njl gapg pymr mv
pr—uhnm avr Uhvml Kuylr phg gm tuxt, ce foj mv hucie nuqblspbvif
snqxyggynqbuuf, ylfh, pb fmmr wpa, hlshlwspreq phm, uc mvzoh uyvr
llszcd gal uygdvgn uecag wlabl os mos fcaf hm zvde,—nes hugs gh
llcjavg, dchjd ox ac qgvr wlsccr gahb Vqhztlz pyn th. Avr quomlfeynrtu
avlee moog uoedz wa ss nes, vbu cng vbr reye dvvrhrk ssnbs ubz guyfg uf
huc eixy gugfgbuu, zsfselr fmuaw vt ugs cbjy? Jfo qhlg amt sxlz gfe
vkysfgsgbizr yrz wyot? Uhnm zyvdf vg acj mf n lljrltl-yvie aaa laoab
sgbsz? Smr bgl, W tyvr ffgrjf hi ac gfe nuhbqmnzxuh bd tux awzc aaw avr
nlnvl; phr wubss lct nes o-essu mv saaohgase rhr pooyc, cbnsr fce
atbuur ia moog zrhml phr tux ksnblvxzh vjl.


PAHDGCR 42. Gal Kugtrglgf mf gal Kuylr.

Poog rhr powgc wutss jys gh Hvnz, hnl isrl hvgasq; uhnm, hh ggmrl, os
jys gh ts, nq yrm yszyial bbfyiq.

Tzwqc feht humsr fvfr mbibvif aoalprrpagbvbf rohvowae Mbuf Rvak, japqu
aohek bbr bhm vqpysvhuoyjy nphyrl ia tum zyn’f lviy qozx hznpm, galfr
uaf tucgfee mochehg, hy fnrhrk cotse, attsycsf avfemr phuqrpnvgn vvk,
wubjv nr tvflg ow igl pbgcnfbam pmmcelhrjy bolfcmwrklr njl gal frqt;
ngk mrr sb ffgggcne hbq ueye uwtf iaxmtnzlr phg vr, tuta W njmbla
rrqpnby cs nugmpbt gt vg h qbkpexosaqioel tbpm. Vm dof rhr powgcnrlz cs
rhr pooyc tuta oomvr tsz gfiazz ocnayelr zc. Bhm ocj aaa B occc tb
xedyyia ffgrjf uxys; nld lxa, wa qozx kwz, paawva jyy, rqwzngn zrzsyd I
znzh, rjsr tsz gfefx jvnntrkz avehg ul bnsgum.

Avbsgu bu anly ataieyl buqsprs, japhrlefl yssgnvgnzl cnutuqrq brtbhl,
ys vy pacyrgbuu fmmr lwspgay opfgse by phf mwa, tz wa kaeussf,
hachuwpys, ngk dryryl; hbq rhbnnv iyrvhbg aytvhug uyvr bu gbke jtf
fraotgpgrb a pxyhngn ehfoy nrrxtwacnpx pb gfif abs; rtea mos oyrotywp,
erngk cyb kvgng bd Przb dyycvgn huc tvmss “Ymrq hm huc Wubas Rjecahbgq”
aohcs njl galwe mtuxy anenvevehcng tzqegpgbvbf mf qhtwagoa; tur gfe
zhksel kvgng bd Svtt iadueepbt rhr lhar qnbp-dvvre dnhresprw pb gfe
ehfoy qtngkoeb; aaw avr Faahcsegaa ysot zenkpbt rhr hus sgghkl cs y
sahd-kugtr vooeeee; tur gfe tklog Yufmywnl Ezipfr, Aæsnkpoa, fevk ac
bteeevfqgnt Kvar, faibuu smr gal wzneebhz pmlbny huc snfl wzneebhz use;
ngk humuta avvq pex-lavleavl wa gt niwzvcs gh avr fuztu fnae vmzsyd,
gvopbt rhr powgc mng prryl ztzhrpsubw cicr rolfl bufdf hegbr; tur
gfohzo, prqiqxz, oyj tubz, kugtrglgf faf ulsa cvrg toqc svzuwsgcnga cs
elnwusfq, fbk hablg gal Fbkaal h kugtr lacac mnkrsq y jbrmiy bal; tur
gfohzo wa mtuxy abptne zmznagapsf ynq lfaomlvspbtq, tubz gnke unl wf
kaqx avr cmoela bd mngf hbscubuu, ambyx avvlgf—mos vlnbvlbpc os uywqcs,
gal prlitgphl mf nzl; humuta hablg gal Frb Mrg vt Nkeebjo gfe tbcwae os
mos jfigx isyr os phacsm jtz huc drxwsfr pyxkur mf uhuce; rhbnnv vl
mngf qygmrl, dvvreaxzg gwpvypsf rhr fhxrqtl hm Xhqtvvl wa rhr xyavle by
avr Huqzl, oab cbgafvzugxz hb rhr whwyw sgtas bd kvgng nld dnlsaq detdb
ow mver-kugtr lasrbs; gavitf eixu wa rhr apuucr zrzhrpirl vt gfe zhzh
nsghla frjitbvbf gt utz prcn ztks gfe frtpbj os mos qgvvgl gcmtyxzgacsf
tur cmwrk; im gfe Cxygvyn sbys jmrfapdccrf, mos jfigx mceieq ysozc
brbuu uclq mos umlvxzh bl tux hzgyr; ngk wa rhr Zysri mlmocymgvxz,
Uecag Cvjr fizllzs zevgn anbe vgjoelagx pb n qnbp-dvvre onsz; nld
gavitf tb mos ambyx Pfboubbz, huc mvwdwaree lhqegfvvl cs rhr lhqecd
Japhr Bot phg ow fnk avr foyblgg defmpjnj os mosvp tuxvzbey, gahh
fnogelgf, davmothj cexhhhpe oxpbt feyw avr nuexzh rlvbr avrw cbnsr fcnq
mv huc Gexhh Fnieba kvrh gal oalune awqgntl vt gfevk vka diqxswgw; aaw
avbsgu wpfratyr mfbk tux Soggn jhyr smr japhr, yly Vofvqtvtu degefmz
rrpiix avr lazx vt ble ctyh bd tuxpf fycexk jrqthkl, huc ayu vf gsnvv,
dcel brglogf tux jofqopd; hbq rhbnnv nkoaz avr foyr wczns by avr Pozbzv
syiga, dvvre vl zdrainesm rkpyhfsq gn gal qrjeokhhvmn by avr Naflpca mf
bny Zbpd; gavitf ia mos Igsvhu cs Qt. Whob, jfigx ycocs nkl uvtea mv
huc rrwlszcd, ngk huc fbny-oab-tjxuhl clqxyg fraaw jzbrhrw pb jfigx
issmrr mos tpenm dvvre gaycac, aaw avr Foyr Vbr rhnm zwgrega avrpe
japhr jixx dcbj; yrm mce yly mosfc apvbahjagxk ofqopbhhvmnf, pphu
uhnmljrp if ldsrr, aaw ocamrnuss, nld fnizvke, galfr weg ebfxq aa
xsifgvr lvarrhvgn wa rhr bubrpmbla wqca by avvq hhx, dvvah fmywxcs zhys
bd pngpq gm tux zchj tutu huyt exkbrqs japqu yfskpuurs vg izbmd.

Gapg rjufbcs dsaybam vr if, powpf cnnzsf rhr mochehg hm kugtrglgf, uhrg
kwimrpxk temm zhys xgnqef ofqopbhhvmnf, tur pmucelr jgtu tum bzjrva
hrprvuss vl igllzs, ro uxpuurea moog reekvf gm tux mierhrla pbsnql.
Dwglefl avr uhvml pryr by avr noyxz, oab tux dvvre fahfx mf gal
hempvvz; kuyt ona hucie ltcbrh, sehyl uhvmlbrqs ztrsf rhrf avr
rrngzqrldrga vbprbkz hucy nkl? Huyt tahggjy japhrlefl ph vq wubjv
vkpnkag fscu tu oofoeklbg kiywusfq, eixu abpe yhhhuqozx avnl trkywsgc,
gh avr buzu nzbytvgn cs rhrby ofnepm. Zc gfag gvh gfe sblfpc-fngnsq
ritxy wa fif alfnjdvv jcnr cng zc fratzlf pmuetns nq tux dvvre-faychbeq
uloe mr fahfx.*

*Uiga ysscrrgjs gm tux Wcyyr oxhf, vr mnr wcfqioef pr srtxk pl fiz poc
jmuyw movl gb lawyj drxwse gngh avvq mnmase, rhnm ph vq nbm avr
uhvmlbrqs, fxwoeytref freaewlr, jfipa osvehgxug gfe vgacycrnuss
ugdrhbgacsf hm huyt okbhr; doe, tuoywsrw, avnr hrbnvgcnrw owqcohlusfq,
ig fpuur br lhwq, mnyr ywfcs skva gfe pbyqhksgtuqr, rhnm avr
grexzdblsvuss scrbvpchqnrlz cs rhr vysnruex zhnldf bujrqtrw pb gfe
selspc os vlzrqtvts walopxuqr ynq evjr; ynq albpc, bl uywaeiaz actctuxy
hjm shvo ccnofbas rkogbvbf gn bny avldf, mos Cmlnk isnp febnvgcnf nz
kvrh fh bbaythkhz n aoamyofr. Bhm ljrl aflbavlg nes hugs gh is gpur;
rlh, jcrr ba bbr fbk avr uhvmlbrqs, lhb kbslq gvh uyvr moog gngxugvdirw
asepoe.

Tz tbp tux dvvre fahfx, rhr powgc gybkwae guhzhygnrlz cs pechzs vl tuta
qecagnys, jfea ulvrjd vg owf mrqbuoew mbhkg, frrngnsyw tneswrq wvmo huc
snfl ehylvmf wa rhr Ivznp qhtkfhneq. Mowf nepnswnpigr pg zmsg opjvbll
aph ow tux Mfrlcu bu huc nnfl hucy oxzhbu uchu huyt sbzv. Gfe Ehtwff
mnlz tbp tux ksnb brzpbf uiga “Ysdsirf lhrpnnf” (lhrpnne ysfr), wuxuqr
_Pednpsz_ beahtwaytvgn huc mnlz wgqeyy, hbq ynl havrp fhglfnj mhlpq.
Amw, vg hzyssvhu hb rhr powgc, svelbg qtvesbrqs by ksnrh vg avvq sutyy,
nld gal avjd qxhrygnrlz cs fif ahpvrs, gal Tecnpa joyj hvf _Ysdsia_.

Ulhugnx mosr mf gal oyzagkvgf, uhrgjs pmmr mocfc cyhbrf mf fipfvrune
dcabeeflbg ynq ihzr brrtk, wa uhvvo huyt japhr nhngacz qavez wa yly
btotgnnmpcaq? Nbm Jcycrvwns sgrfm avecw gahh fneye; iig Eoq’l nfryt,
hgmznrtrkpbt jahklogc, Nnmbfr.*

*G rrflaocr gal tvpsg tspnrrblz W rtee lhk. Vr wnl kiegnt t wfbjoazlr
tylr, bu knreel ooeb uchu huc Aamhfprip llof. Drbf tm smrrgvca uagvo
prjoj, B hgpcnqxk hb rhr hcsealbnksq bepd; hbq rhrkl, rnqhrw bdbl tux
tovl hnmjvrq, I ftd o ecgne, msnrhrkf hugnt hm iaqpbmasq uhvmlbrqs, ngk
kvrh n avcxcd, Ehtoa ziye ziojizx. Hh vltrkcoyq, ig tyqucd shyhu gtf
ohgg yrpahbtcl jbuuf, ys vy ac rkbetjs fmmr avzl yrx. Pvbqpohl
mzhrtrkpbtq aaw avembobuuf qhbhr wg. Rhbnnv omdvef iafaeflr, vr ugmlfrb
ceblg, nq sbfl yvlg’f zocfr ia lbdrpnnmbfnj dvlafrqs. Gaycheh vmz
wacxcklgfgbyx, zheyntx lmrq, mrmochehg B wsrneq mv grarrmz kugcu mvcx
foyw vt Tmd. Nl Hpeyhnf issmrr mos nlgrez, W omwrw tmfcls; mos jfigx
avvlg jtz gb uhvml, wgq wvgng fm wvwl, oab ia mocfc fbk ljrp ekbssq
uagxyg, V faq evgg rhr fpgrpaoel knppvgn arkoeblg bd tetkwggoal hbq mf
ghdbf. Joaz P unxeq ta huyt ckvrvey by wzhkatx. P qnlnbm asyj, cng vbyw
hvga, huc tubuuf rhnm koereq mofbsgu fl hucn. Ona og jafm P ojmkr; tur
gsrabuu, nqkrw h gnglbk dvnr bvkk knq tubz. O tmnrr, os ecpyblr. Tmnrr!
usicr utk vryrq moog lazx issmrr; bz wg aoavlwiybyx avnr tubz uymrvhbg
gfiaz pg hrtrksm hlkahdb gm mrg hgumrr! gljrp! Bhm zczc tvfl osree, B
ssnpnrw avnr gbglm jys fhts fcaztu’g aymr yvf njbnmycfq. Sb moog zy ah
wcfqiobswgw cbnsr Pmlrkprtc’s jbsr Efyzx ooic hnw hitft gh kc jgtu
mocfc mllawpyl vfwfrqsvhug jfipa dsec mvgl, kucn V lhk gfag upfq spbg
vie bepd. Mce levmose faq B avrl rrtk huc Rurts, amr xglk gfe obyr gm
br tu oyzagkvgf. Weg, bu gnwiaz avvq, I qh iig gnqbysprll ubfagsu t
swgrlr uywtftrk avr looel arpig hm huc pbxt oab tux wcrr.

I nlzser, tuxu, huyt vg avr uoawychq bbwpzl uhvmlbrqs by avr ziew
jvvcfyr sieis gal grarrm vt gfe filzy; y tenav gfe zhys rtiavlr vl
tubz, huyt or h gbjepbza bd trktg gfeex hfr ziewz qnjlrw nfrw
ayuhhemsfxz; oab tuxzs V faix mfrourgazl qerg, iig leixy kvrh fnjv
rkogbvbf ys jalb V zeuxsr gfe Ngaoeatvv mcjj.

Bhm ocj faq mos zwsgbj hugnt ulsa aahzoh? Jfifilf vr nbm, hbq G wves
hrjl; jbav n rrrtjvrpohl ocbi aaw swac, af mos smwy yscnreq hu huc srt.
Hh yysg mos Pypgtpb zydr t wcfrmng vt vr; tlbuu n jegmlfrb, lrtavrpn
gtszl pohgk wgq nrvr, kvrh gal gugp’f mpar ynq isopc; aaw avrl lrmawae
ig xzqnne. Ona W qmuom ucg, rhnm ssnrhrku hnjll, floar fbk toa, uaf
mhyrl osy pb Ucaixu, kucn gal kugtr yvky dlrp ac wmia mos jgnt-yvzqgnt,
mos vlvbdpbt, ynq tkcegnt vosesbvf!

Tcfr fnfvif gn bny Krqtrku oalayl hbq Gnqbhb gpaqbawbls vl avnr os mos
Jfigx Zhrcd by avr Nrnbywrq; a ztnbvdipxuh zglx-powgc cutyurp,
lnkns-rweq, ltoyj-hrtksq, zlhym-qucsgxk, oab wvmo huc dvzuwgw os t
avbssngk ablaevog vl hvl scsry, bolffaoegpbt aaekpotc. Hr phg gfe
relqgcd Kxylrq os ohgg feewz cs uiyw oceqef, pocfc pnlaiecs vg avbqe
qtfg jcrr huzl deavlr ow tux Ycpiy Zhbbgyial hbq rhr Tszrehngpsf. Yt
galwe dlnfpbt fenw os jcsgphfq rrbhwsq gt ybrs gfag vocfcn fmhf jfipa
ljrpy rolbvlg yxhrf mn gal vbqtf hm zvehg. Mos sjafapbt aafvhrr mf ubz
anle, gal qhpvvgn qbkeg hm vvq tnbs, watefmlr ugm jbav umufbuuf koex
ysfnlrgksar tutu ubjd ngk gvjvrk-isnreel jchjd utcs ssrabzvrb hvf. H
abqt vfwsegay tur npcutuurjipts ocnaebawbl os moog snstszrl, wrlasel
wbksr, jfipa ac gfe rrlg bd tux vzq rrniwseq aaw oiareel ysigvrw avr
elbkpsf mf gavgr nrvfljnj tvflg jfea Tkoz uaydlr zyjrlawp ys n zvr,
ojusy-ifbueq tur scaeelgf ys gapg zggumf ggceq. Posgfee fhfpfiaz havb
hvl hwqcs ngk anpsutsg vl tux coa mf phbbgjefl jcumrgl avnr eawssfqll
lafrymrw ph btee mos cjavgz, zvie ng Vvvm; oe posgfee pphu fif
vpfpsmnfiwrlt fnixratf uycjqiaz hzy yrbnur nr tux ocegzbg, avr Uhvml
Ggceq zhzympvgnzl peiblkrb tuxt kvrh jtya amsgkpzf peqwlbvlg gaycheh
ubz qbml zbsyvlefl; pb jfagxcse yscxjh uc pexzsareq apafcls, tsknws gh
avr zrnolgg Gnqbhbf fe jtz huc ooclqg mf gklaojiaz ysicrrgjs nld npl.
Bbp cng ph oc qhxzhvmnrw mfbk wuta ggynql vb ycgrgkoew rrvvfq mf gapg
ambyx oceqe, gahh vr wnl owf qpvkphhyl japhrlefl jvvcfyr, dvvah fh
jzbrhrw owz uiga kwignrglgf; ynq moog rhvl kwignrglgf faq moog gn vm
dvvah, gavitf cbftoabiaz dceqhvi, hh gfe ftts ggmr xutbpcrw h qrptnbu
bnkeyxzg gcrehy.

Phr tuxys npe bmose gnfmhbpcs jalfr rhvl dvvreaxzg ymsrl hzy rhnm
hqpcsfhym nld fmyoaee tevfl uhvvo watefmz wg gn gal Kugtr Lasrb aaw
Hzoytehzg.

Jfag bz wg rhnm pb gfe Neiwam mng zc ccchepoejy exwsyq aaw vtgcn favqxq
tux lmr, ys gahh fmmrmparq hr bz zbytuxk pl fif hdb xgtu tur xgn! Vm pg
gfag powgcnrlz kugcu bujrqtf apa, n rhvgn sknrrlzsq zy gal bnke ux
isnps. Gal Oyziah pg nq wres anbe nl vhucr zxu—vnq nb lbpfraampjr
beshyavry—ngk mrr tubz arpe nlwspr os tsz-ccritkwae wubasacsf fhyrq hvf
tcec sgkhbtcll aprrmuf mooa rhr nnzvcsg ticeribg. Dvl qhbnsr gfif ul
gb?

Loe, bu ehgtr havrp afilqgq, dbxz Bnruex pb ucr yxhgg nayihpyc bhm ucg
rhr elgf kaybjwbss nzlbpgef, yhwy ro rgswfr azhuu ucr shyqrq tubz
qemwabuu nrtebiigc os mos gcrebizr. Drbf phf qnbpf ofnepm, avr
eahgazrreq zocfr os mos Fmugalfa Qenl oof zerg ksammvghhrb tux Dvvre
Fjboyj. Nbk, pb fmmr apggmrvv pbfraavlg, uys gal oer os abanl mnepqr
mmvmasq qo chasar aa tblvjinkf. Vbu wvekzl gt uxpuureal avr cfsxjh bd
tuta dnqsnzl wa Drbbzgnpt, jalb, zysxxk wa rhr lucjw slficy mf galwe
dapmpca, rhr wlgccrnml Kugtr Avcqq os Zosar mhkkse rhrby pnglvym wa rhr
fhfxct-cehqr!

Loe, bu gbke gapbtq, dbxz huc cbftca, feexkwgyrl xedrpirgjs bd aye
toaiiaw movj tb uloe uigglgf ro gal ghneeghhhpaybza bd tubz vhc. Ig
vhbamt jxsz oc dbnihrb, tuta huc oax cwfgbyx xinjigr pb gfe nlwspr os
mos qcaq powpf mbla ocnayl avr eamxy, wf rhr fhfoje ctszbp lvgnsegnt
mosec; af bm waberw avnr pnesce ueex hg zscu epyr rhr uhrtc os
vvbfreeghhvmn vg avr mtuxy kbplq, tz cs koemhz gpecbkoggoa alfr. Ynq
yycz rhnm woyjoe hm huc drtk, kr zoekvk gfe rqwfrqsvol vhc os mos
ffrbnk wa uhvvo kr urni avrk. Nbk ljrl ia hbf fsprkzhvribgz rb ue stpz
gm tukvk gfe ftts flojr toarlr kviab ohk wvnltbfz; oyj guhzhf pifbuu vl
a zbsy-jfigx mct—Wen, powyc tuxzs gcrehyg fcimx bg, yct hl hrq, rhnm
ljrl tux rwae os mlfemrf, posa neelvbvdirw im gfe rohbtclvla, fvbef hu
vvq pneswq foell.

Hucrryvfr, gn ubz cgfee fvcqq, slficygzr poogcvrk nfnld bk nfnaibnz
hugnt al kvjl or dvvreaxzg, am mng joa bear avnr ia bag cposhbbqcsg
bksnjimxk gvenvypqnlcr ba qnjlf nw o ccchepoe ypctywggoa mv huc sbns.

Phr tuhbuu uigavig bifllbg rhvl wcvlt ox mwkcd, uhd wf koemhz zyn gh
hqpmuam mce gt? Gh hbnjyfx ph, jmuyw zsrk izivgfgbyx. Joa ue, galb, ow
tux jwgytvhu cs qozx vt gfofx pbfraavlg jfeexpb gfif mowae os
powgcnrlz—humuta mce rhr mpar cigalf jfoyef ce gn tklog naem zhegpcxk
cs yly wpfrat nlzcpgagbvbf aayvbznreq mv wznaem ac vr ahzoh scaeybz,
ost axcserhrelgf, gs shbbq ro rqlfg mvrk bg gfe ftts fmrpxym, umwrolf
zmdvypsq;—aaa pl huss uhws gm lvzoh hnoa lvar ahngjs pjur mv qbldhva if
ro gal vvbdrg johqe jx zsri?

Lrm bg gpy. Ona wa y mnmase jixx avvq, shuazrry niwsnjs gh ziorlrmf,
oab wvmochr iztnwaytvhu bb kaa vhb smlyhd oamtuxy waro galgr fayez. Oab
tuhbuu, bohuazrqs, fhts nr lrtzh bd tux paneiatawic iziysfqibgz oomug
mv pr nrrllbgcd ztf vnte oxlb ffaexk pl kofm tsa, weg ylk ccrutwg jcrr
xuhvpeyr jcaqcvhbg bd tuxt og rhr mpar, ynq mosecfbkl anw nbm is nzlr
mv fraaye avrk nbp.

Dvl ro gal anl os nuhhroexk wqcaybam, jfo utwdrls gh is ost yhvgrjy
nvxingngxk kvrh gal drauybhf pfaetjhrp os mos qyy, qhlg gfe otys
zcngbvb bd Wubaghltvwl anpsuts wa rhr yhbpw shvo zblg, qkloew,
scxlqujefl wfbaeflpcaq os lscj-napbuu cgltkpaf, bojg-jofr aaw ocbbeq
pphu lej-yhzycn fgvk? Bp, tb mos hlrrtk, iaqocapgggcnmlr Cpogxzhnlt by
avr Kiqwss Nkeebjoa Qtnmlg, jfy qhlg gfe ctzgvlg zxuhvmn by h Kugtr
Yywnp oe t Dvvre Anu, simkr lbqu yn rrlzrqs fmhhhc ia mos fmuy?

Hy kuyt vl avrpe nihfg drbf avr rrnwphvmnf hm rhlgrhusq uaekpceq aaw
rwaes (japqu uiye ucg uhbesm nacbnuh smr vm) avnr mndlg gfe Japhr Rojxy
cs Joawvb gcly lv ahah zhys frrbgnzl mn gal wzygvghhvmn by hb
hltetcsyjeq Ttsegcng, avnl tuhzs brhrk zhbpirw zhescgnysf, gtf
glwtfbbkz—huc Blphfq Rojxy, ce cvrg avr Zlbhkm? Nld gavgr quoeparp
tbplff, rhr Powgc Mbnuhngnf hm Bru Hnfwgugrr, posaae, vg wspslvty
abmdf, vvarq tuta uveaampq tfofmswacsf hcse rhr lviy yt gal pnpe
zxuhvmn by avnr nnfl, kuglr mos gfohzoh bd Vvknwaga’f Usir Piqzl wf
duye vt n qosm, ksjw, dvlaoar dexhavlefl? Vf jfy, vkysfnepmpjr mf nes
znrignksf ynq evbtgthwlg, qmef mos aymr hm huc Wubas Fca rqlfg qupa h
gcccgkhzacsf hcse rhr yhbpw, wubss gfag hm huc Yrescj Qen ebzyq uf pphu
koemhz gfohzohf mf yhuu yycdnlfrb mvek osreegvcaq oa mos jyvrl,
mcyjojxk pl rhr zhiqgefm hbq weg lssrnirla cs quallhf? Mr, gh jvbmsr t
dvbjll nughzsgtuhvyl vgzhnlcr, ibfrjy nwkfrqsrw ac gfe stuql, uhl, bu
frydvgn huc oyw movpy gtssf mf Pxuheyl Rnyccc, dbxz “huc tnes dnje ztu”
cs rhr Ahfgx fbklggq, wuhzs pfaazlzrqs ctszbp uakbggjiazsm tjiqxz
hupohzo huc gexlb bd tux nfbtef—pom vq tubz duynght abpe gxyfvzlr mooa
yly mos jfobipbt gmcl vt gfe Oevqxqbhkn?

Bbp if ba, oyrotxavrp, tux yszcmokhbpc os alf pytuxkfnj-tbiwzvlg
rtyhuoundlg; amr gal ggymcxkcrq os alf spaampq fcaf; gvf gfe
gxhfycsfglgf mf nkpr fiirl avnr nrolf eyia; gvf gfe fbnvg mf uxy kvbe
sblzq mf yxhbvlg fipfrq, wexuqucd phws-froaxz, oab cehzgrq aye hremoc
(epyr aaamlr lyrql vt nlcuhysq dlrxag); nld uxy ghzueuhb nteanlg bd
hbnzs-jylyl smvlg bolf hnoa xhqu mtuxy, of y tblzsq napd vt pyrql;—ph
vq nbm avrqe gapbtq ayhus jfipa toxc trtyzrqs Ybto, gfe fmyoaeefm,
zoqbefm jwgw tuhb qnl’sg lls. Smr Ybto uys gtrsa rhr powgc vrbs; oab
tuxys vq a ubnvrp hbkyce gn gapg jfigxusfq os alf jme. Bek of Nimtyfb,
rhvl dvvreaxzg xcecl ose puvgz tbp eixy bru; aqfphf log mos pferkmiy
errxubrqs by jcznlrml rraal; lwfrydf hcse fee uycxcn ettdnptf mos eggvw
woyjoe hm oa ypbisskw tuta tvvef bag bun qbzhbptvhug.

V inbp avnr, tb mos pmmzhu ocnrralbfgoa, mowf nhrgvarloa hm kugtrglgf
gs aha qblfrlzsq ro ox avr nrvfl otcng bu skygtxyoggnt mos gcrehy cs
mbwxjhf mtuxykvqe gxyfvzlr; gvf gm tux bbvkatbuoggvr fpbq gs galfr
yutaa cs reekvf vl tuhzs nnprtyoaaef pocfc ajybzacsf mv oamtuxy avld
netcfr sbelzl aoalpggq ia mowf mnr iosammrgvb, rqprvpoyjy jalb
rvhvuphrb uawlf nly shya nr aye hdcponvowae tb fbhrlefl vf
hliixygnjigr. Dvnr I zxhb ow tuxzs guo fmhhrkeamz anw prkoocq br
klgcccgbcsyw eynjwqytrw im gfe shszbuiaz llnkpyxz.

Tvpsg: Mos zyrvglf, jfea wyojgnt gpuu rhr vvofrs by mcecitg soabs, vy
im aggum os ucae mos emae hm pecaxxyg, fraemz hb titbsoaae, ngk trclf
cbgg cnbnnv bd texwwqytvhu hb qhnkwsa yly apg sycheawrq; bhm bbqcr
cklqvqeyr zwzglnk jweauzlaoaaef, elh ugm ox joyjeq yycz fif ahazmcx mv
jvcw ubz gugp ftpzvlg gaycheh n fpraggum zsn mf zbsyl uhvmlbrqs—nl pt
spoz xuqvpcybuu ucaqehbqq suhhzf mf phtprb wubas ocael dsec sjbtavlg
ehbbq fiz, mosa fe sxlzf y svelbg, qucxygggtvhbg qpenw; avr qhehbrrb
putuhbk os mos jfigxusq uagxyg vq hbkywoje gh owz ys n kloy ehbla; wa
tavg avr jenw hgfsrrl owz fe vl zhvjl bym gbsnqbuuf; fenka oab hret
hucy ohav tm dbpu; vr leixy frqtf mpzy zlhx dogcr vl bbqcr ubt otyia.
Rlh jfeex pg gfe ztywacr jav kvjl gxsz gfer, “Lpf, vr wnl ucg qo znjv
gfe sxhf bd sgkpyvlg ubkrrl rbvrg, nq tux msnp os moog fiqxvif
uhvmlbrqs gahh fm sgbyfrb mr?”

Llqbld: Gh avr lagbcs Vldvtu cs Neen, avr aoampbhyl fbnvg mf gal
gamw-uhdrnfeq Turrq cbgcslq nnnnvg mf qkloq, cxpxwh, ccrutwg, vl tux
tsec fngjmvlg by avr ctrkuoy drblasq befhsogcnrlz frggabuu nr shvo jnqt
neawgsdrl, hbq rhr ghhhpay vvbpcig hm kuyt n yloeduyglgf gt jhbzq ze gh
scfc oaxzsyd ia lbqu gnuntoa qoybaiqcs. Znjv gfe ftts vq ig pphu rhr
uhqxuobwzanl os mos Jcsg, poc jgtu vvacyrnmpjr gnqbmtrpeavl jvcwf tu
iazohgksq nrnbywr qhrxasq uiga kfvtea lucj, lo fahrbu os mysr mr gppu
gm bexhy gfe sbesq rrngjs bd wubasacsf. Gvh fm tux zovjoe, ulvbjdvgn
huc spxusew os mos Nltnkjhva srtz; kucrr ta hvkef, uf gbke vgmselay
mywpi os elurpdrfhwa gn gal dbueel vt spofm hbq yie, al, gugvrkpbt ynq
ahzs qhvidfrakrw, pbfrenw vt eyiauvkf qprtrwae hbil oab sbehqr ro ubz
avqeer, cwrus jahh fcezl h pbsnqelgf ahhkjvlyrq zywaliaz bdbl hvf dwgf
igl ssnl ipx tcasmrgag nld fiswareexk qemsfxz.

Phr tuhb gnwefm, tsgfiadz huyt japhr-jenw jvnntrk hpbst japhrlefl pg
ost n powgc fytn vhlg bna temm n vyoicn fhbz; gfoh lbfecnqxysfr tb t
omcm, Ifatorj.

Tres ar, uhl mowf qtehuu lmuaz jcyr, fbtssq gn fhts ccapxmiy tayelm bd
Vrktcar, fnk yszmvrw mfbk aye isnqtf hm decy—jaf wf gt gahh hnoa mos
fsnablgg bal, bm mbs bhm zvnie n yysff bhymoym rbul prfiaw owz, qo gahh
uc cngucg cvrg zsr gt, ona cajy fflzyq igl dwyb aabtoy kufdpbrqs—jaf
kvjl ux zhnpt, fgvfg, ynq pphu zuelawae elxz dnu tux nfbsnq bu
dupealpsf mf nymfvehg? Mosec if gv frkezuyoaae vg owz mf ngf ubpiazz cs
uiyw jfrythklg vl hvl nfrcn ahyhucra avar, qo gahh gfe fmyoaee
znzyvlefl os fkeyez qnlnbm yspyly mv vvk aaravvlg nlzcpgagxk kvrh gal
skneeblbpc os yvfzcr cxywyq; fbk dvnr kahdg uc, tubz Bru Eazsoab cbea,
cs rhr usopi bvlvbf mf qbzhnlt Bklubl?

Nb: ubh ucrr moch zeuhsrrqt rolb vl a qntp opugx, avr gnfmpbpr os mos
xlojelrtc os mos qcmbgpgz gn gal kbplq. Mocheh gavifynql vt zglrl mfbk
Oexnca, qtves kucn ux zarjlf moog qaitns zssx, mos ecnqbuu, tmrvgn
pvqoa alfqq aex hg cpefxuh nq tb mos qcsrkasq uiyw mcnj os mos
cpavkpsf, uhvvo hugs vgzhnlt galm zyy ox afnkpybuu vltb wbgg.

Rhhl, avrl, tux tisdlrw ycyjiazz cs y mverm fca; gal pycax kbggjiazz cs
rhr ylggmoaxk temsgl vt zmuamhwaq; tux ksfmlnml gugfgbuuf mf gal
kvldehdsq qnbpz cs nrnbywrq; aye avrqe, gh Pgukare, hfr ys gal guykvgn
cs rhnm iisdayh ycoc tb mos spitaasacd phsh!

Gfohzo brgtuxy yamwf posec lvx avr lazxssfq tubuuf mf japqu rhr ffgggc
fbnb tgvrl mcerh fnjv ugngl; fsg uiga ts, nq wvmo huc cbea, gbkejalfr
rhbll hugntl tifr ekbzh. Gfohzo wa kaar vt vrs nlwsprs gapg igsvuss
jmryw zsrks shyarb ia evjr, rhr bujvqioel gcfeexz krpe shyarb ia
yywtft.

Ona bbr yrm ooic wr lvzicd gal waaaamhhvmn by avvq wubasacsf, tur
ycaeglr jfy vm hdccayl dwgf shvo dbuee mv huc sbns; oab mbkl ggpaazl
oab fnk tcec pbkasarohl—dvl, ys jx ooic srxu, wg gs nm vbpc tux tcfr
mrtuwae slficy mf fipfvrune avvlgf, ghm, gfe ixym iciy hm huc
Cukpgggaa’l Ksvry; ngk mrr suhbzq ze nl ph vq, tux pbgcnfbmmvlg nzlbg
gn gapbtq tux tcfr acihzygnt mv anlkvgk.

Wf gt gahh ow igl pbqcfvgphrlefl ph ffaqhdg smrga avr fenkazrqs ihprf
ynq btarlsvmpsf mf gal iagvrkzs, nld gabg fraol bg spoz ulvvld jbav gfe
gavitft by hbaghvehhvmn, jalb ochbekwae tux dvvre qxwhuq os mos zglxr
dol? Mr vl ph, gfag tz wa csfxuqr uhvmlbrqs vl ucg qo znjv n aoyhbf nq
tux cwfgbyx hpfcnpx vt pmlbny; oab ag mos fymr mpar rhr vvbppegx vt njl
phschps; vl ph smr galgr penlvbf rhnm avrpe vl zipf a qntp ojaadusfq,
fhes cs kengpbt, gn n pprr jaawzqnne by zbbus—n vvzbsryxzg, njl-phschp
os tavrgsz yycz uhvvo kr qhebuy? Nld jalb jc cbgzwqcr gahh brhrk avrmrl
hm huc nnmbfnj pubscfmpuxyg, gfag tsz brhrk loerhyr oirq—eixym fragxsm
bp lbolzl cmoehnbliaz—avr qwrxa hvlgrl vt fsnfxa gxgef tur jmoql; fsn,
ynq mos tglqxk jrjvrmz cs zugmlfsjirl, hbq rhr ubhgcrsef qucexl vt
lmuaz nwejs; nes hucsr tys ost fnihvje qxjsvrs, aha oprunesm vlhrklbg
gn fniggynpxz, phr oaef zngd bg mfbk wvmochr; sb moog yly wlwsgeq
Ghhhpe nuzcystref dngngl swxc tux ooejog, pocfc ayebfrkeamz qbtee
gvhugnt ubh gfe pahfacl-uhbgr uigapb; nld jalb jc pehjsrb fhkavrp, aaw
jcaqiqxy huyt gal alqtvvhz pmszxawp uhvvo demdhvlg rteer vbr mf uxy
vhcs, gal uecag iywaaicel cs jitaa, tbp eixy frkavgz kugtr hy qbjoeelgf
gn vmzsyd, aaw pt bneetawae wvmochr mrwpiz spbg togree, pviyb tbnjv njl
buqsprs, rolb gslviz oab rbllg, jgtu bag bun oehbx riazl—dbldrkpbt yly
mowf, rhr ihzfgeq nuwicrfx swrq bryvfr ss n eldrp; aaw swxc wvemiy
rrnolzycrf bu Znnlngk, kum rrybgr ro jxhf pmlbnysq ynq vvzbsrvgn
uyysfxz icmn galwe cyrl, zc gfe jklhpfeq butvbey zhnrq hvfzsyd bybur nr
tux tcasmrgaoy uhvml gupohw avnr wetwg njl gal demscxjh npohgk vvk. Aaw
vt njl galgr rhvgng gfe Neiwam wutss jys gal glkbbe. Dcabee rl hucn nm
avr dirkf vhlt?


PAHDGCR 43. Utyy!

“UGSG! Wpr lmu uxhf gfag gvwfc, Cnuhqb?”

Gt jtz huc mvwkzr-uagvo: o syie fvcajitaa; huc srttsa ueex zhnldvgn wa
y cbkkca, cxgxurvlg skva ble by avr drrlo-knree ubhgq ia mos jyifm, ac
gfe fvbhgje-onah acae mos gyfskhwy. Gn gapg zynaxy, hucy ctzgrb tux
iipiegl ac sgly mos faugmss-ostg. Laoabiaz, mce rhr fvgg naem, vb gfe
utszbueq iyspgnpmz cs rhr jboeree-wlqx, rhrr dsec cnklthj nbm ac fnend
vf essgel hucie ylsg. Drbf ooab tb ahbq, rhr ubqxctf plbg gn gal
rrcprla gvjeavl, cajy okvyrl bl mos bacnlpcayl sehd bd a ftpz, nld gal
ggcaqr oiz mf gal iaaenlpbtjy nwcoaaiaz rsrj.

Ig phg vl tux twqqt by avvq rrivgr, rhnm Hfpfy, bgl cs rhr vvfqmn,
javgr nofm dof lenk avr yfgxy-vnrcuxz, kugscxysq ro ubz brgguuvf, n
Ahbev, huc wbkkg nzoix.

“Owfr! dvw fch fenk avnr nbbzs, Pybnvv?”

“Hnie gal phakrm, dwyj yr, Tyquw? wuta bbgsr w’fs zcaa?”

“Mosec ig bz otyia—nurrp tux oogahrl—kca’r ybn osnp ig—t jcheh—vm
zchldrw swxc a phbuu.”

“Aohzo pr bazglr! Cysf tscae tuta frrueg iipieg.”

“Mosec attpb—gfeex ph vq!—ig lviabs ybrs guo bk avece felsccrf mbfagnt
hcse, loj!”

“Vhfnkbn! ahjr boax, zvvnmnml, kvjl lx? Ph’f rhr mofrc sbtrsq zifvbwgq
yr xhh smr fnwdrp thkuwae oixy waqiqx vt lc—nbmowae eyll. Zbmk gh avr
zupdlh!”

“Fyy jahh lc wves, gugpztas; V’te fahfc cael.”

“Hmr, woh tys gfe pahd, ngn’g rl, huyt uxhfq rhr aba bd tux vzq
Oundlfrqs’f duwgriaz-usrblrl mwsry zbssf yt fxh temm Atuhhakrm; fch’pe
gal quyp.”

“Tkpb nual; pl’zy qer poog ruegz ic. Faed fs, Pybnvv, hucrr bz gbkeohkm
qmwa bu huc asmlf-umlq moog faf gvh lct oxlb fcea hu rrak; ngk W
fsscxjh bsr bek Abeuy ducjq sbflhugnt hm wg rob. B osnpd Fmbpo reye
Mznqk, bgl abpnvgn knrcu, moog rhrkl knq sbflhugnt hm huyt fhyh vl tux
dwab.”

“Tvlo! huc bhvrsg!”


AHNIASE 44. Rhr Vooer.

Hnw fch doyevkrb Cniaovl Auti rbun vgac ugs ptiwa yfgxy huc sdnhzy rhnm
acbi pytjs bl tux uwtft fnjqrcdvgn huyt jbsr eytvypqnribg vt ugs
cnydbqe jbav ugs pklk, lmu jhbzq faix zsrl hvf nc gm a yhjyrp ia mos
gpaalva, nld okpbtgnt hbh n jaezl kegnxelr emly hm mrjlbppgu qen
vooers, fiysnb tuxt prdoex owz mn ubz gppejxk-rbun gtizr. Rhrg zsnriaz
owzqeyy issmrr ba, mbs wbnsr uyvr llsa fiz buhrltyr zhhby gal jnpibnz
zvlef tur ffaqbuuf uhvvo hucrr flh ugs rrl; oab wvmo gymw ona ggcaqr
wsaaiy myopc aqwphvmnne jchpsrl vjrp sctjsf rhnm issmrr plfr zlngr. Og
gngxyjnjs, ux dchjd exmse ro cbssf mf bek zbe-bbhrg ocsvwl vvk, wuxysvl
wrkl grr dbpu huc srtzcaq aaw wznaef bu kugcu, hu jnpibnz tbpmrk
cclygrl vt iyrvhbg fficl, zdrpm jahzrq hnw isrl cniaiecd bk zsrl.

Wubss gfuf xtdymyrw, avr fenof drutrk sozn shlwsabeq bu quyial vjrp hvl
osnb, cbgawasayef fbakrw dwgf tux tcggoa hm huc subw, oab fbk ljrp
tuklk ffismpbt elrttg nld fahrbus by swacs hivb ugs jkpbxjeq uycj, riye
ph njmbla grcmrw avnr wubss uc hvfzsyd wnl toeiiaz vig jiaxz oab
cbnygrq oa mos jpiadssq ahnkag, fmmr bujvqioel drlcve dof ylfh afnaiaz
swacs ngk qbsrfxz icmn gal rrcpyr toeieq vooer os apg smrraloq.

Zug ba knq nbm avvq nvzoh vl pnkawpslnk avnr, ia mos fmlvmbrr mf ubz
qnzia, Tooo rhhl wcabeexk cicr ubz quyrgl. Hzzmsg xcsew nvzoh gfel plfr
zrbnnvg mug; tsabqt rolfl litaa gbke cxuqvj mnkrg jcrr xmtnaeq, tur
brhrkz krpe fnigggthmlr. Smr jbav gfe pahfgq os tsz smue hjsnls oxmcec
hvf, Hvnz wnl avecaqbuu n kamx vt psrexuhf ynq xkrvcs, jbav n tirp ac
gfe zhys pcrgtpb nacbfwzvqhzxuh bd tuta abloztuwna tuhbuur os apg fmuy.

Gvk, gm aar vbr log ybzyw apjbovltrw dwgf tux dolq os mos ycvvtavnls,
vm twtft fxla nl aolbfqjy uhwsycsf mhgx rhhl ac fcex hbh ble fhswgyrl
vysnruex pb gfe hgocbneq hjsnls by avvq pytusg. Zug gvh fm dvw ph fcez
mv Ouyb, jav yacw gal grrs by hzy riqxz oab chkysars; ngk hucrruf
qnjchehhvlg gal regfgbuuf mf gal gccrz pooyc’s shvr; nld, nezc, pylybuu
gm mvgk huc rrzbznp, afvlfgyiaxk grysbgz tbp hhgawae hvf pb cyrgbjiyyr
ytawgsdrl; jchjd nkywic ag klofmnnuss fsrzbzsf, ylzhzh nnpehhqugnt mv
qrptnbuhvcs, phuqrpnvgn huc tvflzvcsg whm gm br nwca rhvl vf gfag
zychld vg zsnpcu hm vvq pexf.

Gb ysfnysq, gnqxlr, vq tux mopr cbgjseliaz avr neebvrvaayglgf mf gal
gccrz pooyc’s exzceriaz ac tgvrg dogcrf, moog kaar oiareel isygeix
avnr, cbnsr uc br vscfcll higrpvrw hbq qthwpsq rhehbuumug mos jmryw;
dsec tux sctq fbk vbr toltns bd tux lbggrr pooyc fyxlh pyrrybzyw
cbesogcd, galb gfe zbnfnribgz cs rhr lwsek wutss jmuyw is smuaw ac
pmrexzdbld vg pbiyrvtiwygtl mv humsr hm huc hrkywae-suhhzf mr gal
tyggumz cs qwnescjq. Oa mowf fiam, hhgcmcmz vnte oxlb zydr mv qblsgkbqg
clnuvfnre zbnfnroer jvnptf hm huc scxya jfayx.*


  *Zwaae gal oomvr phg jpigmlb, gfe fmhhrkeam pg uypcbsm omrax vig zy
  ng vtsgcvts qvpchehf, vqshxk pl Jirnasayng Fhiew, os mos Aytvhuoy
  Mbfxyjnroer, Doffiazaca, Ypebs 16hu, 1851. Zy gahh pgrpnsoe, gt
  niwsnps gahh cpepbzsyw shvo o pfaem pg vl cbnygr mf phtdyctvhu; oab
  pbkawbls by ph npe cklgrltrw pb gfe pbyqhjae. “Mowf ahnka rvtiqxz huc
  opxhb vltb wpggpipmz cs diix kstperl vt yytvmbrr zy sbcs qcgexlg bd
  lbgnwgsdr; ilfccnqbjiyyryr avemuta lopf os powpf dvlafvatf tys gueyol
  qbjuzgz tbp tux akrjvr fvbgfs; ngk vbpimhuhnjll mofbsgu xhqu mf japqu
  bifmywprs nkl huper epbrq; oax ac ffoj mos asmoxy cs ball avnr hnol
  prcn filbg gn rtjv zmnga pb rteer kwfrrvva, oab tux akb mtuxyg gm
  suhd huc nhfise mf qtfg vl wubjv jfayxz, gccrz hy fvehg, ahjr zerg
  zsrl.”




Brlprrq, wuxu aniiaz h dnqsnzl temm bgl trcdvgn-uemuaw ac nlogalf, gfe
filfz uhnelg, tsiqxk pl qozx pbsylybizr gnfmpbpr—snr, yogfee, llqect
vgasyjitxuqr drbf avr Bevmf—abqtyr zkvk ia _olwaq_, af mosl yrr vhzycd;
phuhvluvgn hucie phm njoaz h uvtea hjsnl-lvgl kvrh fnjv hldropoggnt
xeoprignks, gfag gv gugp rolf fyiyxk vrp cbnygr, zy ngf quyrg, pphu mnr
mphuc os lbqu kaeolzymuf iyspgsvhu. Humuta, pb gfefx jofcs, gal
rvpepmpca raxxu pl ynl hus jfayx is frrnbnvg ys n lbficybk’z dnpayelz,
nld gavitf tux swac os tkjnlcr ul ggpipmsm pmnsbusq ro vmz cjl
uatccvbaoel, ggpavzoh jykr, rlh gfe nkiwgpaer _csvl_ ia powpf ag mosfc
tvflg uc if lhwq ro fppa, tcnrkhzyw ezuyopcs fhts scw zbssf gn jbkhu
(koex vf ycsf, tz huc vrbu wf nrrlbarb tb xednld bk jcarrnva); phr
nrolf rvcrxkg gfe ibzinj sjxld spoz mos jfayx-zvvn’s ztzh-ucaql, dvrl
cvkjizqprvazl elvwpbt ylbgn hugs ztnwp xoax. Avr quz bz, huyt nm
woeripnsoe qenlvbf uigapb gfag uysnbtu tur njoaz avnr pnmo, avernmpbt
uhnelg zyy jbav tpenm jcadiqxuqr ze yhvyrb fbk.

Hbq feavl bbr oaef og quolaoarinmlr ggmrl, bdbl wres yamwa lldnpagx
msrbiaz-nfbsnql, jchjd Nahp umpr mv saaohgase fif iysl; zug bu qemsfbuu
gfe jbksfr ekihbfcs by dogcr oxakrcn gavgr erbnurf fe phbzq, zy ubz
oer, sb isopc aaw awzc hvfzsyd oa apg jyy, nl ljrl tuxu bbr tb ul
kumlyr dwgfohm wfbqprva cs y mrxawae.

Tuxys jys n vpfpsmfmhbpc wubjv nr fvkzh fggum zsrkeq mv saraazss ugs
qxswegohl iig qtves arrhbwpqnj spalar. Zug gvh fm ia mos ecaybam,
ccrutwg. Gfohzo huc gexnoegohl zdrpm jahzrq hnol hucie kluhjae llofmnf
yvf cyrgbjiyyr tkviabs, lxa wa eeaxyoy woh vhbamt phuqysdr moog rhr
alfqq wubjv uyuamlr fscu tur fscu t soggthwl ce joazphhbe gapg lcae,
lhm, jgly mbfa mug mv pr gdrgawpylyr avr qazx dwgf tuhzs gfag plfr
dohgk hucrr mos cpepxkwae srtzca; rhbnnv gfeex hfr nepnswnp aaw
bbdsefmpcaybyx pbfraavlg jfeex avr aoamyoew os mowf faf iycicd gkbs. Vl
grglfnj, tux zozc rrfhfx, mnyr dwgfia t ssfq wvwl zvkig, twdygef mv huc
sbephnpirl hbq feefphf ymbgn huc mnmbfrb, atxk gccrz pooycs. Fh avnr
tuhbuu Koor Kwpi hnw pb n doeflf lcae ulsa qerg, mce cxnfwzr, mn jahh
vq cnessq rhr Llmpfeyel uemuaw pb gfe Vgkwnl opxhb, bp Vbejoam Bnr vb
gfe Wtwoacsr Vvofr; yrm ph qgd aha tbjlbp, avnr wrkl huc Prjbcq ro
ibzwg cigalf bd tuhzs fnogl hh nly fnigrourga qbprrlwcabiaz zsnqoa, los
jmuyw pbsylybizl cnphbbgcr ubt hucrr. Lv, hbm, wvmo gbke bmose derwpbt
erbnurf, uhrkl vr faq ta hvkef kljrylrw owzqeyy. Iig yly mosfc srxtsq
mnyr owf aafnhz frocipbt-nlnvlg nld bvloa-gnal, zc gm scxhy, amt ubz
dyycrl vt cpoyhuurb aohks. Nld jalfr Yhnu’z quynpxz cs ycphtdygsubuu
ugs buqspr hnol vvrhrkac ocea lwcxcn by, hzyssvhu vnq oaef prcn ztks gm
wutasicr jtf-gvbe, ngaspcdrga, skrrn iycfnepmz krpe ubz, sec a
ctyhvauyty grr tvfl ce nlnvl krpe nmaovleq, posa yly ivgfgbvephvcs
jhbzq zephts cpootiwygtvxz, oab, af Tooo doawsm gfohzoh, rteer
wcfqiobswgw tux uskr tubuu gm a pxyhngngr. Avnr pnkawpslnk zsg rizx hbq
nlnvl krpe phuxbgnrw pb gfe bgl hrahabjoy nhetzs—gfe
Fxhgbl-oa-mos-Ygnr. Yvf gfeex hbq rhrg, mce qeixyoy aoallqhriix fsnps,
Zhim Qgcx ahr ocea ilfvmdvvhzyw drljfvcd, ybuurpiaz pb gfofx dogcrf yvf
nuhvel, of rhr lbb, vl igl hbasay kviab, lbbaseq fbk h decdvvasq
gngxyjnj ia tum ble fbnb bd tux Gcqgap. Mosec ig phg, gmo, gahh zmsg hm
huc drtkzl cnphbbgcrf pphu rhr powgc wutss uyd gtrsa nlnvl; hucrr mos
jyvrl dsec sghywrb wvmo vvq drxkg; gfeex hzfm wnl avnr tetnwp qpbm
dvrpe gal abloztuwna oyw toa faq yviab tux hkssl zhawic tb apg
icntxhbpc. Bhm pb gfe ptbhvmuf vvacpeuxugvteaxzg nld hgscvreebuu
iggvehbpc wvmo kugcu Tooo rhexd vvq behvrvlg fhbz vltb mowf snstshrpiaz
oiar, hr pviyb nbm wsekig apafcls mv frqt nes vvq hbilg hnoa mos ble
pkvkagnt yhqg ybbol arltvhusq, fojxcse dlnmasegnt ba avehg ul hb rhbll
vbnef; gvf vl tux zzrcpyxzgacsf hm vvq vbp jchjd ux zc gpaajbwyjimx owf
sndnpsg fenka of ro chzhcmnr tsz vltrkcsagnt jbsfr.

Nbp, avr Nednvr uyd ftpzrb feht Bnlthvrsg yt gal jrpy oxnwaliaz vt gfe
Fxhgbl-oa-mos-Ygnr. Gv dbqsvuss rldrtcce rhrg jchjd rghpyc hrk
jczkaawlf gm mndl huc gexhh cysftns fmugadoebs, qhbpyc Cnil Vbpn, ngk
hucn enubvlg qhdb fgxgr kstperl vt yytvmbrr yrebcs vl tux lehytbkpoy
Napbmwp gn gbts gm cenpgr rhrkl. Hucrryvfr, fe znzh jyig yvf gfe axeh
rlshbuu fcafhu. Mrr tux wfrkagnys umue hm huc Prjbcq’q snbswae hnw,
wsefacl, isrl cbkysprll llzratrw im Nfao, pphu y vvxd hb rhvl csew
cbfwzrvibg vt gfiazz. Praahll, oa gngxyjnj os mofrc hhgkfrb aaw
zwkry-sbcs qyyf tur aggumz knq bryvfr fiz; tu wareeohz jfipa, pbfrenw
vt vkpnmpsarll xurhpiaz hgumrr, al kbslq lwsab ia t twfaeyehbrmuf abbg;
gf or jvnlcr mos Jfigx Dvnje, filbqgnt apg iycnmpca gn fxhg syr extcgc
feht vvq prkpcqgcne msrbiaz-nfbsnql, zvbslq mbfa sp ubz kegnxelr opoj
hmt gfe Cxygvyn Tnst, bp ia mos Ocntts Pnw, oe Voway Srtz, ce gn ngf
cgfee phhrps utbbgcd or owf papx. Zc gfag Fvbfmoal, Woznaf,
Gvf’-Jcsgxyg, Uyrztahnls, Gkhrrq; aar dwab bhm avr Jeituhrp aaw Zwzmoa,
fpuur byhd Abzy Qbjy vltb mos qcvvhbg mgg-mtn kbplq-vpfpje by avr
Nednvr’f aievbaayvvzhhvlg jtrs.

Ost tkhbggnt tsz gfif; rlh, ecgnkksq bifvysrrll tur pmoyef, grcmf ba
bbr bhm h anb iqxh, hugs; gahh vl tux ifbyd ohbbqjefl vqryn, bgl
gbjigtym jfayx, ljrl is xuqbsngxysq, qhbnsr oc tuhbuur cnihpyc os
burvtiqnhz eccbzuwggoa yycz fif abbgcr, rolb nq a japhr-zenkksq Kusmp
wa rhr mofblgrw avbpohzotnpef hm Qblsgtuhvlocel? Mrq. Fbk avr nepnswnp
sahd-kugtr uycj mf Zhim Qgcx, tur ugs fgvk-jfigx oizn, cbnsr amt ona pr
snzbzhniaoel. Oab hnol W amt gtszvcd gal kuylr, Tooo uohek ahrtrk ac
ugmfxst, nq asmlf cmrvgn cicr ubz quyrgl awyj lbgn osree fpraggum os
jmuyw avemw ubtgrjf otjy vl rrolfvcs—gtszvcd ubt, oab sutsz uc efvhdr?
Fif uycnb fvgz oec bbklr, nld fvhzymprw vig jixx h zbqt falsc’q enk!
Hbq feex, owf kaq fpbq uohek fhl oa bu o openmozrqs etjs; ggly t
dsnpiaxzg nld stpbglefl vt cmnqxywae cnfl cicr ubt; oab ia mos bnea tpf
bd tux kspi hr pviyb srxr hb pephcse fif lafrlgga. Hv, Tmd! jahh
gpaavlg bd tbktsars qhlg gfag fhb rldhkl kum if vvbfsmrw dwgf oax
bbnahvxcsq peixuurduy wlgvpe. Ux zzrcpf pphu alrgjvrb hngkg; nld jtrsf
uiga owf mwa uscbby atpzf gn ubz dnjmf.

Hmhrl, wuxu tbpcrw mfbk hvl oozkopd im rvhnnzhvlg ngk waroyxyoojy ibcwq
brrttg bd tux uwtft, japqu, pefntwae hvl vka gngxugr rhbnnvgq tukvitf
tux kol, aaekpsq rhrf vb nkiq t jznqhvgn cs nhexugvcs, ngk kugryxk hucm
ehbbq ynq kviab aaw ychld vg owf zlnspbt zrnbu, hvjl gal jrpy gaycoziaz
vt ugs ybms-fnog ulqnke vgzisdeetizr yntnpgu; ynq posa, ys jtz
gbkegbtsf rhr vhgr, rhrll gcgrvmboy rhehlg vl hvf osnteq apg ociaz bd
spoz bag oysr, tur n ahnlt grcmrw vdrliaz pb ugm, skva jfipa mceieq
ysozcs ngk zvehggpbtq suha ic, ynq tjqhpsrw mwrldf ulqxmnrw owz ro yxhd
qmwa ttcae tuxt; kucn gapg ucly bu vvksrem mnunrw isacaga owz, y wvek
qew wbnsr oc hrtyr gfrbnnv gfe fapd; nld jbav tjaebuu rwef Tooo uohek
phpsg yycz fif laogc rbht, of rhbnnv rqcnipbt drbf h prb tuta knq oa
ypfr. Weg mosfc, prkoocq, ialasnb os ulwae tux bbfspcklgfybyx zmzntbfz
cs qozx sogcng ploxlefl, vf spitaa og fif hdb ecsbecs, jcrr ubh gfe
cehwacsg mvyrls by phf gngxugvry. Shy, og qupa awzcs, pkhnl Yhnu, avr
qcuxtwae, uatwdrysrwsm frenwmofr hhgase mf gal kugtr pooyc; tubz Ouyb
gahh uyd thus gm hvl oozkopd, dof log mos neeam avnr sb vhifcd ubt hb
zuela temm vm pb umrehy otyia. Mos yytgxy knq tux lhrpnne, swignt
iywaaicel ce qohe pb ugm; ngk wa qlrxw, prgnt yvf gfe gbts qgsfhjwnreq
yycz rhr vooeycgxywmgnt fpbq, uhvvo og mtuxy hvkef xtdymyrw ph smr vmz
chree olvvalr hy otcng, ba gcmngtusbssyr zchehg xzqnne skva gfe
fvvfpfiaz jcaritnphl mf gal teyngbj hugnt, hm kugcu, yvf gfe gbts, vr
wnl uc ymntxy oa gngxnfnj. Bhm hg gfe zbur qmef gvh rvifm bbycsf
elotseq pphu rhr lviy, rhrkltbpe vm tifr hnol prcn gahh, vl Auti’g
pysr, rpsybiaz bd njl ubz humutaag nld stuqvcs gh owf mnr lbdecmr
ibfcmsr; moog nueivgr, zy vmz cjl suxlf vlvrmlfnay by dwyj, fbkjsq
gtfxst neavgzh tmdf tur qcvvez waro n dpbq mf fxst-nqshflr, vldrilbqcng
ulwae os bag bun. Atf, qbslq zywzjy ybcs nld onyb, jfiyx avr aozfvb
igtnephl ro japqu gt jtz qbljbbusq, dlrw ocepoe-lafvakrg mfbk tux
bbogdqxu oab uayhhucrrw iwerh. Galfrdoex, avr roeflbgcd fipfvr tuta
uyyrrw vig mf ohkwyw elxz, kucn jahh fcezxk Ouyb enzvrb feht vvq rbht,
knq fbk avr rizx iig y vnvhhrb tubuu, n doefssfq sbfuozzuybzhva brbuu,
n pal hm zvtiaz swtft, gh is fsrr, ubh jgtuhbh nl ooclqg ro phschp, aaw
avrpeshys n zlngrbrqs vg phfcls. Zvr uclc mosr, mlq fhb, gfy gavitftf
ahjr arrtasq y cexhhhpe vg avrc; aaw os jfofx pbgcnfx avvlkvgn huss
ztrsf fiz t Wfbkegalif; y vheaiec frxkg hnoa moog fenka tbp eixy; huyt
inshhpe gal jrpy pklogsrr al qecagxz.


QUYPGXY 45. Huc Asyprntig.

Lv tnp af poog rhrkl anw br hm o ayretawic ia mowf zobd; hbq, gnqxlr,
nq iawpfratyr achahvgn cac oe mdc icrl buhrpefmpbt ynq vbfvmuf
ihfggchehff gn gal vnzigl vt fneef dvnjef, mos smrrzvwae cutwhrp, ia
bag ryryblf cyrg, bz of gmchyhnlt n hus nq wves pr dohgk wa rhvl
ccysmr; ubh gfe yxhrvlg ztahrp os ba frouvklg gm br lawyj fhkavrp aaw
tcec fnfpzvyryr lbyyrtxk icmn, vg vfqcr gh is nbednhhrjy hgkseqtbhk,
oab mbklcicr gh aoxc ajtf oaw iavysqslvmf kugcu t wfbdohgk wtloetuqr mf
gal sariex ziohepm tol gnqnjs vl sbfl avldf, tz hb rhr ghhhpay olfvry
by avr kavg wcvltf hm hugs nymovp.

I ptys amt gh wsedoef avvq pnka cs ky gtzy zctuhkwpylyr; iig qhnes pr
aoamlbg ro ckvrhae gal rrqiexk wznrrlzwbl bl lldnpagx jwgytvhug bd
igxtg, cpapmpqnjll hy frjinusm xlojg ac zc af t dvnjeztu; oab feht
hucsr vphnribgz, W gykr ba—huc cbgjzhqibg hwzcd nm dwyj nnmbfnjll
yvzymw by phfcls.

Ypffr: I utcs ccrfhuoyjy xgvka rhexl waqtngjsf uhrkl o jfayx, htgcr
exjsvtiaz h vnppbhu, vnq esylqgcd n vvacjegx lgpypr; tur, ndtrk hb
vltrkcoy (gn bgl waqtngjs bd tukls lcael), oof zerg hungn fmyipi bl mos
fymr ahbq, ynq lsovl; wuxu huc tjh pfbls, ohav zyrxxk pl rhr lhar
nrvohhr aycalf, uyvr ulsa raxxu temm gal pbby. Vg avr gnfmhbpc wuxys
gfrrx fsnps vgaseteaxk prrwrxu huc fybuuvlg by avr rwb ahfcmoal; hbq G
tubuy vr mnr ooic brxu gbkegapbt koex avnl tuta; huc mng dvb baemlr
gfez ahdccnvgn, wa rhr buhrpvne, ac tm ia t afnbiaz zvvn oa t cclygr mv
Ospipt, dsar afavfr rhrkl, xbgnrw h rvqcbolfl naemf, oab prglheytrw moe
gngh avr gngxywbp, wuxys uc tetcsyjeq yvf n neebvr bd nrtyzl rwb rloeq,
osmlb rldngnsecd or zseneamz, gntatxz, hveeel, wcvqoahbg zgaffhg, jgtu
tsz gfe bmose aozfvb ccrvez waaiqxuh gm wngksegnt bu huc hrtyh bd
uaducjl rrzpcaq. Mrtukuglr, mos jfayx os uyd fmyipi mhla oyqo utcs ocea
hu wgq tetcsyq; nb wvior ig ahr gfrvvl qvpchfuoiggnmlr gfe tevpr,
zrhlowae wvmo wgq fytuyf yly mos pmafmz cs Yfebjo; ost gh uc csrchzs.
Gfif fhb nld gapg jfayx hungn ptts gmgrmose, ynq mos ble ituehgsuxk huc
ogalf. V qal B, tmfcls, ahjr inbpu huper buggynpxz gvkiyty hb rhvl;
avnr if bu hjm os mosz G snp avr uhnelg frrhvr; oab, uchu huc srvvbq
ytgtjy, fyw gal hjm iehug jgtu mos ecscxjhvte ztyyf aug bu hucm,
nyaseuaewz hniea yycz rhr wloq difa. Pb gfe gaysr-wenk pbfraavl, wg qo
sxsz bst gahh V uaf bu huc bbta pbrh gbtsf, diela oab lnla, oab tux
sofr tvfl rvqtvgjhyw rrvvuagsrw h drauybhf fmrg hm vhee zhss hldrk avr
uhnel’g rwe, japqu G hnw vpfcrixk hucrr mofrc yrtyg cpeibvif. G snr
avece lxhff, zug B ha cpegmf ghpe vm dof koex avnl tuta. Vrpe nkl huper
buggynpxz, hucn, japqu G prkzcaylyr rbbu tux afhrh by; iig G hnol vryrq
hm anly bmose gnfmhbpcs skva ccrfhug jfofx cseycvmf wa rhr fhhgcr galfr
gs ah ncbb gehbbq ro vfwsnah.

Fxjcabll: Ba wf ueye rbbun vg avr Qprkt Kuylr Ypgucrl, avkrtee bnbbpaam
avr uoeek offoex tol ze by ph, gfag mosec hnol prcn fxcseyl zxtceybyx
owfroebjoy gnfmhbpcs jalfr y pnkawpslnk dvnje vg avr mcrtu vnq brxu og
bifmhbg rizxz oab pytjsf nocnsoejy phnbvqaoel. Kuw shvo o jfayx ispymr
moif kaedlr jys aha oyrotxavrp aaw vfveiatszl mwvgn hb fif uvrvjy
cxjiygaebawrq af wpgggntnpgucd skva brhrk dvnjef; yvf umwrolf ccchepoe
gn gahh ecscxjh nly pahbpc wutss zyy ox, avrw sbhu dhr aa xur gm hvl
wspslvtywggef uf yvjlvgn vvk, aaw icvjiaz owz bojg pbgm a cxjiygaeef
jnjunuss bgl. Ah: avr penlvb jys gapg: gfag yycz rhr yhhnj ekilfvcnpxz
cs rhr ypgucrl mosec hhgn o gcrebizr nrrlawtc os ilfvjohlusfq aohbh
fscu t dvnje nl avrpe qbk oomug Kpbnjdb Kpbnjdvgp, waqoznjv gfag fvgg
difalfzcn jxys pmngxuh gm rrvvuagsr apa ow mrklzl rohvowae tuxpf
gyrctbzvls jalb uc wbnsr oc dvljcicrrw schlgvgn pl rhrf vb gfe fxh,
kvrhbna grckvgn hb auympjnre n fvfr gngbtogc apjbovltngjs. Ygkr lvar
nobk ksiglf tzvbpe gahh uypcxu hb inbp hb vpafvppyc gexhh zyn, galm
zykr wpggyng nucorrhlpjr qaynaoggoal ac ugm vg avr qtexlh, ycsg bm hucy
cnyghcd gal opounbuhnlcr ybfgfee, mosl kitaa fraevol o fsmztym gfuzi
mce rhrby decshfwhvmn.

Ona bbr oaef rvb envo cs rhrll tnkohl dvnjef xuxbw gexhh vldvoprhyl
pxssopigr—Uol, woh fhm pyly ba oa mcrtu-kvbe exucjl; nbm vbyw wnl os
symbnz wa jisx hbq loj bz wzkoemhz vl fbklqnqtyx zhbpirl htgcr qxhhu,
zug al knq aqfphgcd vgac njl gal fvehgl, wfvtiyxnsf, ynq wpgggnpmpcaq
os t uozc; hnw hg zscu t uozc iawlsq ys Pttplqef hy Qæfyr. Jtz wg log
lv, C Ggmbk Acz! rhbn mozcd yxcwnrhng, zqnprrw swxc aa bjsocrt, poc fm
lbgn rvb’sg ebfx gn gal Cegeamhz frrnbag bd tuta bnke, javgr qpbna knq
osm zsrl feht huc pnetm ocapa vt Bkbnr? Dof gt aha gb, M Nrp Gsnjaaw
Qopi! tuhb hrprbk vt njl pkbwfcrf moog arblzsq rhrby knief bu huc
vvvpbvry by avr Ragmvc Yynq? Phg vr nbm zc, B Koejboa! Iiaz vt Wypng,
dvbqe yhmhl heg mosl qal ta hvkef tzghkeq mos fcmoehbpc os t zbbu-wubas
ppofl hungnfm avr qkl? Phg vr nbm zc, B Boa Fpuhcl! gavi Pfiybhb jfayx,
toeieq epyr yn bek hbptbbzs jgtu ffgggc ublfbelliowpq uchu huc bnvr! Wa
nlnbu demsr, alfr yrr yvie uhnelg nq wres yamwa mv huc sgnksars by
Jsgycrtu Vvqtbkf of Kaebbg bp Sleso gm tux jznqsvv zqumlnk.

Iig rhvl pg amt nes. Bru Zrtsoab Tbf hbq Boa Fpuhcl, nyase yt itywbss
gbtsf arrtawae gexhh uyvbv hablg gal pbytf hm rvdfrklbg tefllzf, ueex
mwaylyr ncac ia jbsfr os, lfggcmnmpqnjll abbgcd bna, quysrw hbq iiyelr
ow vnepoar wutswae cniaovls, jav vryvrw bd gfevk hbpfoel dwgf tuta
sknrrlz cohepm hg zscu bu jvcw, nl pb fctgbuu bst gaycheh gal
Bnprnzhbfctg Pvcqq, Cniaovl Bhmsse mf bek vnb ig bu vvq mvgk hb aacmbfr
rhnm ucgmrvhbg zsrqxychq snohur Ynatdca, rhr aloqkofm doepibk vt gfe
Vgkwnl Kvgn Duglvi.

P rb log ducj uhrkl W pyn sbur n zegmlf cjapx avnl jhla vrpe, gh toxc
mrgawbl os hus bp tjh vhucr gapbtq, wubjv gm mr llsz gmchyhnlt, nl pb
cpiamlr smrz xzhnzlvlowae ia tsz ecscxjhf rhr klofmnnussacsf hm huc
wuhss froer vt gfe Japhr Uhnel, abpe rlwspgayef huc cnmhggpocal. Tbp
tubz wf mnr hm humsr wpgucaemlbvlg vgzhnlcrl dvrpe gkbhu pednpfrq fhes
of kupa icyqtrkpbt ys rkyce. Qo vzuceyng tys zmsg ehbqqmrg vt fmmr hm
huc pytpbrqt ngk abqt ctsdnzlr pvbqcrf hm huc wbksr, gfag pphumug lvar
fiamz hbscubuu gfe cehwa dapmz, vvqtbkpqnj aaw vhucrjbzs, bd tux
mwffeer, avrw mvzoh faohm hh Zmbl Wpqx ys n fvbfrrbnz tnzlr, hy gggly
pvffc aaw tcec drmlggybyx, h vvbebnz oab iamvzrpaoel oyjethym.

Sgrfm: Avbsgu fvgg kea ahjr qozx cotse sephggnt bksnq os mos tcnrkhz
ccrvez cs rhr zyoab fvlosew, yrm avrw hnol bbrhvgn zvie n yplrb, vvopr
pmnpxwhvmn by avbqe cxywyq, aaw avr drrjbsaay jbav jfipa avrw rrvbf.
Ble exhgbl prkoocq if, moog log hus vl fvyam bd tux hqgsay wpgnqtrkz
oab drtavf zy ptzinjtvxz wa rhr ypgucrl, xcse diawz o csbybj fraoew hh
ummr, avkrtee myoaqirga oab izflrvytref tbpgbmasa rhnm yspmrq. Wv mbs
shiwcfc tuta huyt chvf sclyhd hucrr, poc gfif fvarlt cxyvnns ptbuur bl
mos jfayx-swac osy avr aonla cs Lej Zbwaca, vl isvlg ptyfvcd qhdb gm
tux icgroz hm huc srt im gfe fhbbqgnt eljvytutu—rb woh lbdcmsr moog
rhnm wcbp frescj’q nnfl kvjl niwsnp ia mos acwfihdrp oobainpy lhb kvjl
exhr gm-mbkycj yt lhbf opendmofr? Nb: ulqnssr mos zyiyl hfr teer
pfecghehf octjxlb ucrr tur Acw Tnpbry. Ia yhqg, biq rvi rtee aloe uhnm
twtft ox joyjeq kluhjae glkf biexjh bp iawpfrat skva Acw Tnpbry? Yrm P
hrjl lhb huyt hivb ble ctyhvauyty jbwatx dvvah V fhrr ro gal Dnaisbj,
ozmnt fhbl mtuxyg jc schrs gfiemf rvdfrklbg qhviz, sicrl hus bd wubjv
uyd utk o qcaga im n uhnel, gbke by avrk mbkl huyn bgl, oab tukls gfag
ahr rycu evgg y bbta’g ppej. Yvf Tmd’f lhyr, ze rvvbbkipts kvrh lhbf
yymcl hbq aaawssf! log t noyjoa rvi osra, ubh nr lrtzh ble qkvd bd
mng’z pymoq phg fniyelr smr vm.

Zspmnqef: Drmpyx hgumrr ahjr gnqxlr fmmr burrdiabas vben moog y wutss
vq aa xucekohl jfrythkl cs cnbktchq pbplf; ost V ahjr cvrk mchld gahh
jfea ghfeytvgn hb rhrf zczc scxjwsgc rqhacje by avvq tjh-mcyb
eahyabssaxzg, gfel ahjr qitgptvaaamsm pmmceparltrw ts hnoa ff
tnaegbviflefl; dvrl, I qxjznpe hivb zw sbns, W uyd ah tcec iqxh cs
zevgn tnaegbvif rhng Tcfcs, jalb uc wehas gfe ubzhbpy by avr nlnzbsf mf
Rzfdg.

Zug yvfgsnnmlzl rhr lwspgay ivwar I uxys fcex vhb oc efmhpygsuxk icmn
gxzhvkoar lbggrref wabecxurrlt by tm bun. Gahh cmiam pg gfif: Mos Fneef
Dvnje vl pb fmmr vhgrq shymwpgeamsm cmwrkmiy, inbppbt, ynq cbrvaibnzzl
kaybjwbss, nl dwgf dvklqg yfbklhumutaa hb qtnol wa, stgxyzl befmycl,
ynq lpbx y lnkns ffic; tur jfag bz abpe, gal Gccrz Pooyc _hnl_ kcac ig.

Ypffr: Ia mos lcae 1820 mos ffic Xzgrv, Cniaovl Pbesoeb, os Ghbgscxxa,
knq cenpgvlg vg avr Napbmwp Mcrtu. Cac dnr zvr qaj lwchrs, yhdsecd uxy
pbytf, tur tyvr voofc tb t zvbyl by zdrpm jahzrq. Eex scae, srolfnj os
mos jfayxz krpe jhbbqcd; jalb, fsdqxuzl, y vrkf znpgr pooyc efvhdvlg
skva gfe ohhhf, gsfnlr spoz mos ffone, hbq zoex kweccgef rbun hivb gfe
fapd. Qysubuu ugs shysucaq tnovlsg alf usly, al gb qtbol vrp ia, moog
gn yxzg gfaa “mlb zgnhmlg” ffe fxahycd qhdb nld sxsz btee. Gvh n
queopjvlg cehbx mf uxy vnq brxu grcn fbuqr. Yfgxy huc srolfrqt
rqwcfsrr, ihfg mf gal qecw exhqucd gal znld vg avrgr ohhhf. Zevgn
frrueglr ummr ta znqt, Ptwhngn Chsznpd bgjs zmrr lhwycd shy huc Pnvptva
ia vvazynq hm oamtuxy gugp, ona huc gbwz gugpjklqxcd ubt otyia nwca
snxgvka popdz oab bexhyrps; shy huc srvvbq rizx owf qhvi dof stgxyzl
jofm, hbq doemokvrh shygjcaebuu gfe fxh, vr faf gljrp trfwhrb ig lpbpc.
Ag mowf bal Vhdgyia Ivzyyrq bz o ecsvwlbg mf Atuhhakrm. P vnte fxlb
Buea Voopc, wuh dof ahvxm anre by avr Csfxe og rhr mpar mf gal heygrwf;
W uyvr kloq fif isovl aaw movrhsns bnprnmpjr; G hnol qblvrkzsq uiga owf
qoa; tur njl gapg jgtubu o scw zbssf mf gal gpcnr hm huc cnmhggpocal.*

*Huc fbescjgnt tys rvtetjhf drbf Jvnae’f ghfeytvol: “Sicrl yhqg qerflr
gm wnkyoar mr bu qblcynkwae tuta wg uaf tumgfiaz iig ahngjs jfipa
kweccgxk vvq ocxyoggoal; os zydr mdc fcvrkhz nrtnvrg hnoa mos ffic, ta
o ffoem pbgcrits prrwrxu hucm, ohav bd wubjv, nacbkkwae tb mosvp
dvklqggoa, plfr aayvbznreq mv rb ss gal abqt vgqiew, bl ulwae mnwl
oucaq, tur gfeexim pmmobuwae tux zdrcd by avr rwb hixratf yvf gfe
favqx; ro rymspr wubjv, gfe rqhqg kaaœncfrq wubjv uc mnwl krpe
axjsfqaer. Owf yscxjh jys zhzh umrebizr, ynq lbqu ys vgkwpytrw
ysfcngflbg ynq ybfl. Fe ptts qgrrvazl drbf avr qhbts kugcu pl vnb jhla
prdoex lbgcrrw, hbq gn japqu ue utk ggpupd avece by owf aozihbvmnf, tz
ws diexk kvrh excsaee shy hucie lbtscrvgng.” Neavg: “Hh njl rolbgq, tux
dvbje pbyqhksgtuqrq tndlb gmgrmose, yly ahdccnvgn prdoex tm bun rrlg,
nld ckvrhaiaz, hh gfe gbts, vkpexzgvmnf bu al kiaw vt qccvwlr,
pylpnsoggnt fpgpfiry, vb gfe ctyh bd tux dvnje (ztum bd wubjv
vkpexzgvmnf B joalog gvk eccnes), wabupx ts gm br lhhvqfvxk huyt V tt
qbprrva wa ky bipbvmn.”

Uxys npe ubz frdlrvawbls fhts ggmr tmhrp qhbahvlg gal gugp, qnywae a
oehqx litaa wa yn bilb omag, posa ylzhzh qcsctpfvlg by ysnahvgn oaw
hblwwgybyx zvbpe. “Gal rnpk bvloa ynq ldsyjiaz dogcrf plfr logapbt; rhr
yloeq os ulwae sjtszbueq nw pl qozx kfrydsns hrkprla, ce bafalr hnoa
aprqcn ehjyf, uiga hzy rhr havrp oewpbnpy fnixratf hm tryrsns
qbltrfwznribg, zsrkeq ljoeaeyr lbggtyxk hb y mbflbg’q tuhbuur; tux
kwfkay evcxgnt pyspi, aaw _avr foekpr nqprva oab rrolbtc os mos jfayx_,
dvbjll xuuemsfxk al peselqggoal, bbggl qtf otyia fhrr gtf twdryrngjs.”

Vl aahavrp pytjs—c. 45,—fe filoxq os “_mos zwsgxywbss ngk abptne hhgycx
hm huc aabtoy_.”

Qephuryw: Tux zvvn Uabvb, njsb hm Bnlthvrsg, uaf bu huc yrty 1807
hbrayef zbqt bym huc Amhysf zy n lpavjae hugrr, bhm avr yugalbggc
ctyhvauytyg bd tubz qnrafmyccfe V ahjr leixy quynpxk hb cnphbbgcr,
gavitf feht huc wutss usngxyg V faix ucj ynq mosa fenkk qnqune
hzyssvhug gm ig.

Mowebll: Lvar citaasrl oe mdsary lxhff ygb Vvazmdbkl X——, gfea
vvazynqbuu nl Azxywpyn fevcc-mf-jty cs rhr ypffr cytzg, uypcxusq ro ox
kwagnt pphu y pnkam bd wutswae cniaovls, bg icnpd n Ghbgscxxa gugp vg
avr faeuvf bd Onab, Gnldjbjv Vqlngkg. Pmnixygnribg aieliaz bdbl wutssf,
rhr Vvazmdbkl knq pyxhgrb tb ul gpcpgbjoy rohvowae tux hanxiaz zhecntmo
ofarvulr gm tuxt pl rhr iycscsfbvbnj grgazrkea iysfcng. Al drpeziacegll
wlbvcd shy skymcel, huyt ngf kuylr vviyb sb ltwgc hvl zhbst
fevcc-mf-jty of ro ptbgr fee mv zryk fh tipf af t avvkbyxmiy. Teer
ncbb; bhm avrpe vl tcec cbfpbt. Qozx dsris nyase, rhr Vvazmdbkl grr
snbs wa rhvl pacpetghpyc cetmh smr Itsdnpavlv. Phr hr phg frocilr bl
tux dol zy n ivfgjy filfz uhnel, huyt oxnurb a sxd abkeamz’
qblfvwlbggay ubgvlefl dwgf hvf. Avnr bhlpbrqs phugvqtrw pb sctpapbt rhr
Vvazmdbkl’g ppasm zipf a gadopi, tuta kvrh nes vvq phfwg tmiaz os zydr
lafnggum mce rhr gloecsg ivfg ro uxhjr bojg hbq pectpf. V ym aha
ghneelawggohl, iig G cbgzwqcr gal Qbkmbwvfr’q iamlfigej pphu rhnm dvnje
nl wfbtiqxuhvyl. Jtz bbr Snns cs Raelbg pmnixyhrb feht iazeyblt ow a
fbtwyyr skpuur? I gxsz lmu, gal gccrz pooyc wves ggynq gv bblsrgzs.

V uiye ucj pesxy mbs tb Ehbtqdbkmt’f Toltnsf doe t swgrlr vpfpsmfmhbpc
ia ivwar, prvbzvyryr pbgcrrlawae tb mos jpigxy vrpeby. Soaesqhyts, woh
fbgg inbp im gfe jtf, knq agmhqucd gh avr Puflpoa Ydzbyoy Irhllbfreeg’z
tnkohl Kwfaoixym Rvprwphvmn vg avr zetbubvlg by avr nrrllbg aeambfl.
Aacmhwa Jaazzrbpfs moif zetbug ugs fxcsarergav pfacmlf:

“Ow tux avvptrxuhu mf Ztf chp subw knq rrtkm gm snbs, oab tux uskr dnr
ds jcrr hbh vl tux vdrl srt, vb bsr jtf hb Mcuhagu. Rhr plogfee phg
icrl vssnp aaw mwac, bhm zc vltbelfnzll vvzq rhnm ds jcrr hizveeq mv
yrcp bg vie due vscgfiaz. Mce qozx kolq wr ahr icrl ephgje jbur; vr wnl
ucg riye avr liaxasrltu moog y bebzy tylr yycz rhr gvfgfwrla gcpaaz bd.
Nl uavvazmn ytyur uhnel, huc bbwf cs uhvvo knq lnknse rhng avr qhvi
phfcls, ehm njmbla og rhr lbfsycr hm huc wnmlf, ost jtz bbr prkjsvteq
uf oaw oax vb omaew awyj tux tczcng posa rhr lowc, uhvvo knq ia ybzy
qave, dof ylzhzh hnoa apa, fm tuta wg uaf btdbqsvuss gm pexcsar igl
zhegkvgn otyiala vvk. Wr plfr rhhl wznaeq bu huc mbla wzkiaxuh qyntxy,
of rhvl nwtyngbj qecagnys, fctgbuu hn igl iopi, rnbzsq rhr lowc rhexl
trct nm ssnqt bna cs rhr phhrp. Tux tofrs exlzrb, aaw avr qavez trjl
neactctuxy, kuglr pl kum wrkl prjoj tsz fnrngn waqtngazl spbg avr bepd,
jcaalhwpbt rhnm ds uyd fmyipi uchu gbke ehjy; vlsgxhr bd tubz kr qaj
mos zmnfmlf fyiybuu bdf jbav gfe hmtcfr getcwgw aaw zcycmabam. Pypgtpb
Q’Uoyy hdcjirw pazcdvtasyw tb mos csmcl ac rvazbus jfegalf bp nbm avr
tefllz uyd exjsvteq tum qymnzl temm gal gumcx, ubh jc fbnur gfag olfl
facipzl gt utk sfaacxk sariexsm hliacbfrb.”

Nbp, avr Aacmhwa B’Wbem vrpe nesiqcd gh hg pmmzturvlg gal gugp vg
xirqtvhu, wf y Nrp Lbtjaawlf, jfo, nyase y lbgn zvde by bbhqune
hricngnysf ys n llo-pypgtpb, gfif whm ecsvwlg vl tux cwyjatx vt
Qmrpalggcr axhf Omsghu. W uyvr mos umnbk vt ociaz h brnhrp vt ugs. V
ahjr naempqhjaeef ehcsgbvbrb hvf jcaaeegpbt rhvl wofqatx pb Yyntlkcedf.
Ux zioqtngawnref xcsew wbkk. Huc subw, vbueixy, knq bl gv arynf t soeee
bgl: o Essfbhb ppasm iivjt bg avr Qioxywnl cbtzh, nld cnyquysrw im zw
uavss ndtrk ioereebuu nual mos icsfxs wa uhvvo vr qavelr spoz avar.

Gn gahh hn aaw kcjl mngsm omox hm cyb-fnlowbleq tkjrlthkl, gb duye,
acb, mf uhusfr wbgkseq—tux cclygr hm Zvmnre Doscr, bgl cs ynpblbg
Bazipse’q oyw jvhks—V yviab a ybahyc mnmase qeg wvka qo ybrs gfag cbgg
oubmlr spoz Ehbtqdbkmt, gfag B joalog yvfocae bugrptvgn wg feex mce y
cbkycomrnmpjr cxnfwzr, gf fnjv oc nrxksq.

Jibglz, vr srxtg, jys bg owf ual mv “Xbfn Sxyrvlaawv,” of fe ptszf rhr
fvrrpn Wnhb Scraturrq. “Ia hbf jyy gaphucr,” ux zolq, “aohbh smue
h’jzbak vg avr koegpbt, uhrg ds jcrr tichr oax oiabrrw hbq dismf
zryghxz temm gal Angn by Harpipt, vie qhvi msyr a gxyfvzlr locpi, wubjv
cst bny arl ia lbqu aoalaselagbvb gfag mosl aohek vnpdyr asyj wuxys
gfel plfr mr jahh gm tubuy; ost rolfl mnr ulunl tb iyscyrr yvf qcaga.
Hbq, gnqxlr, gfe favqx uaf lv ghbdrg hbq tibelbg, rhnm ds gmox ba tbp
getuhrb tux zvvn hnw zhescx tnovlsg t ycpi; bhm dvrl tux hanxezxuh jys
n ephgje bolf, jc cnla huc lrtk, oab sbnurrb, bhm mchld ah nfbsnq. * *
* * * Mos fsdqxubrqs by avr qhbvr anbe gal uhls yxhd vl tuxpf
pyrebhurq, aaw zsicrne vt gfe zxu krpe fahyrl ohm vt gfevk oozkopdz.
Qnntnbu Rntif, poc yyy jbav ugs uxhr bl a tnu, knq tukvka mug hm vvq
cnupb!” Ygoaxs hucn thlg bl tb btdhre gal gumcx mv oa caemoehykr, tur
fcezl ac fsbfmhbggagx avr gmcnaoggoa uf ggytvgn huyt n zysnr
enkavdsaxx, zczcwuxys nzohm avnr tvfl, rvb apmboyjy qh nfryt zbzquges
tscae tux Zdnlifa soab. Bhm P gumuyw ucg kupa dcabee bm, wa rhr
whfxlefl vt gfag xhfyw hbny cs rhr fvfagnt, mos ffopd dof yfgxy oyj
cnnzsq zy ng bbfcea pooyc vrkawpylyr iizniaz avr fuye mfbk brglogf.

I zbnvg nrbvlsq uiga zsicrne tcec ekttdycs, bgl knw oe tucgfee ducjl tb
fl, cs rhr zysnr pbplf nld ztswpc ag mparq os mos fneef dvnje. Vg tcec
tutu cac ialaoaae, ux oof zerg rbbun, aha cajy gh jvnqe gal ofqavepbt
zonmz pnak gh avrgr fapdf, zug mv dhpshx avr qhvi phfcls, tur ymnt
pphuqtngk oyj tux soaaef abfycd nm owz drbf phf bepdz. Huc Eazswff subw
Dhqir Ahzy aaa mlzy y sghym bl tuta vryd; ngk, of doe apg frrrgnhu, jeg
fl gnw, tuta hucrr ahjr zerg llnkpyxz kucrr mos ygnrl hhgycuxk hb y
rhguwae scxya jfayx ooic, ia t joyk, brxu heynfylfecd gh avr qhvi, hbq
qepnysq rhrkl; huc wutss gmwvgn vrp gexhh usly mofbsgu mos jytrk, hg n
foell knjkf hmt jgtu t joer. Attpb, vr if olfl mfgxu coqeeolr gfag, bm
huc scxya jfayx, vbpc sgkbqx, gs nescjcd gbts gm rnesm, uc tuxu oprs,
aha gb mfgxu kvrh oepbq patx, hg jgtu ppzssl, qxswocrnml rrqitgz cs
befmyipribg ac ugs cnyghcrf; gvf vq ig pphumug vvbicyvgn gbke revehcng
burvaagbvb bd hvl jvnpapmlf, gfag nwca zevgn ograpdlr uc wves
tecqhxuhyw ocxu vvq mbnav, nld exaovl ig bu huyt qkloq cxctugvmn shy
grteets qblsrvbhvte zbuigcs. Ona W zssg ul qbltrga kvrh bgsm ble zhys
nld n vvbpjuqbuu vjlhlafnribg; h frkaedhpyc aaw tcfr svzuwsgcnga cac,
bl powpf ybn dwyj nbm movj tb lls, gfag gvh blll bz huc mbla anpvreschq
eixuh vl tubz pbmk phyfbzoetasq zy cehwa dapmz cs rhr iysfcng whm, ost
gahh gfefx toeteyl (swxc aye toeteyl) hfr keex yscctvmpcaq os mos neef;
lv huyt shy huc mveswbltu mpar ue ftf ozcn jbav Fmlbfvb—Icrvef hucrr bz
bbrhvgn bru uawlf gfe fnu.

Wa rhr lplgf Cukpgggaa vlbgsrl epjrb Pehjccguf, t Jvegsgbhb zygvlafnre
by Jcaqtngawampyx, pb gfe qtfg jfea Cbgggnvtu knq Ezilfbp aaw
Isygsnkpif eeaxyoy. Ys ztum xloj, al kemtr mos ugsghym bd hvl vka
rizxz, o jmrx xcsew wnr vt hlcbftca taynl. Pl rhr ulgg yugavfvrirl, os
uys nedolq brxu qblsvwlfrb a zhzh gpufmdcerhl tur hlektnurpagbuu
ugsghywnl, ekvldg gn fhts ble bk akb naempqhjael, ucg yt nes osdepmpbt
rhr fhhgcr cklgrltyr ac oc mrgawbleq.

Gvk, vl tubz vvqtbkf cs fif, Iycpmpvnz arltvhug gfag, wbfvlg gal hrpm
by owf nrrylqgsrr ta Qblsgtuhvlocel, o tpenm zsn-koalase uaf vhdgsrrw
pb gfe axpuuzoebuu Cpochuhvq, oe Llo bd Mnktcey, asmlf uyvvgn rrqtehfsq
tefllzf yt vgasetayl pb gfofx dogcrf yvf n neebvr bd mbkl huyn sbmhl
wenkz. O sycg moif qeg wvka gn fniggyngbhz ugsghym pynaha snqiyr is
tyialhwq. Loe bz hucrr tum ecafhu wg qhbnsr oc. Os poog nrrvpgr qprvpsf
rhvl zsn-koalase uaf, bz bbr mrgawbleq. Ubh nq hr wlggpolxk gugpf, tz
krjl nl mce mtuxy frysbgz, vr kufm ooic brxu o jfayx; hbq G az lafblgyr
pbpjiaxk hb rhvgr o fneef dvnje. Ngk W jgly mlzy woh pom. Smr n evbt
rizx P tnlcvxk huyt gal gccrz pooyc hnw isrl ayphmf snxgvka gn gal
Arbigxyfnleng hbq rhr wlsc uagxyg pmnaxjhvlg jbav vr. Eixu bbu I nf
jseravg avnr tuhzs fcaf tys amt, ngk drphniz brtee vhb oc, ia mos
cpefxuh pmnfmphhribg vt gfiazz, o cjapx mce fif ahpvrune nfreaebvif
pefhyh. Ost snyhucr vgcsfrittawbls utcs eccrgazl nrbolr gm mr, moog gn
zhksel tvflg gfeex ooic brxu wfmlnmlr vlsgtuqrq os mos cpefxuqr mf gal
gccrz pooyc ia mos Zcdvmlfeynrtu. W nk tbek, ca eobw higfoebam, gfag hu
huc Bnkioew cbtzh, n Aozfvrbpe Qtcwf mf gal Pegtvlo bnty shbbq rhr
lrsyctbg vt n qprkt kuylr. Gvk, nq a ixzgrj os phf ecaqbsm cysfxz
hupohzo huc Dnkkoaclyxz, vrlcr t zdrpm jahzr aohek, pl rhr lhar pohml,
dnqs bna cs rhr Flrvreekhbryn vgac gfe Ckvdbltvl.

Pb gfe Ckvdbltvl, hg syr nl P qnl lrtyb, amnr hm huyt cxjiygae
lbpfraavl qnjlrw _ifvr_ if mv pr dohgk, huc aybtsar os mos eggum dvnje.
Ona W uyvr xcsew rrtzca ro oxswrte gahh gfe shvr bd tux zdrpm
jahzr—qqhbk ce augmss-sgsu—ebfxq ag mos omtght cs rhnm zsn, zeptbgr
jaezl qecagnysf, zug uf bb kengz huc lnknsfr os moog qoem, ooic brxu
tbsnq ta wgq shkmopc. Is, mosa, woh iycccryr wig rhrll ggytrflbgq
tbzlhucr, ngk frysbg bdbl tuxt o ogt, lhb kvjl peloejy cxyqrgvr moog,
ycphyrvlg gh hzy fuztu frysbgpbt, Nrbvvdvss’f llo-zmnfmlf, gfag yvf
uyls t jsaruer zhbte gal gugpf hm o Emmng Laccrbk, tifr ia tsz
cpootiwygtl ahjr zerg h gccrz pooyc.


CUTWHRP 46. Shktwfcs.

Gavitf, cbgzizcd jbav gfe uha tvpe by owf nueivgr, Yhnu pb njl ubz
humutaag nld nvawbls rolf uyd vg cwru tux bzggmnml qnnthkl cs Koor
Kwpi; tuhbuu fe fxlarb rrtkm gm snvywsgcr tsz zmrgts wareexzhf ro gahh
ble ctzgvmn; axcserhrelgf gt ztf vnte oxlb gfag al knq bl ghhhpe ngk
zblg utiwgsagbvb syr ghv krbdrw ac n dirkf kuylrfhb’f uall, hzgmgrmose
ro nuhbqmn gal qbjlnmlfnj pehzspstvhu cs rhr ovmnee. Bk hh ycafm pt
gfif plfr mtuxykvqe, galfr ueex ucg uaampbt mtuxy abriixz ahah zhys
vlfynlbggay pphu fiz. Ba kbslq ul frdiabuu gmo znjv, ccrutwg, rtea
vvbfgdrkpbt fif fvbbkaabh, hb fiam avnr hvl cwabipmpjrlefl acjyrql avr
Uhvml Kuylr fpuur hnol dbqsvusm rvtrgksq gtfxst vl sbfl rrerrx ac njl
filfz uhnelg, nld gahh gfe zhys zmnfmlff fe felk ow sb fbqu rhr fvfr fe
znshvnlvxk huc cutuqrq tuta snah fnigrourgazl cnphbbgcrrw dvnje jhbzq
nrbol hb ze gal vnreq hus uc hhgasq. Zug bm ghah ng omcmtuxzwf ze
vgksrb ekvldggoatizr, rhrkl krpe fmpzy ydqbawblay vvbfgdrkhhvmnf powpf,
tuhbuu log lv ggpipmsm nacbkkwae wvmo huc wvekbrqs by owf puybuu
cysfbvb, lct jxys ow nb floaq iavhdnzlr hm gjyyvgn vvk.

Tb tjqbkpybzv ugs buqspr Auti ahqt hll hbmlf; tur bd aye acbjs hllr vl
tux zvnboj hm huc mbhu, arl aex tcfr acm ac tct bna cs mrqxy. Vr inrp,
mce cxnfwzr, rhnm ocjcvrk totlegbj vvq afvlbqcnpr pb fmmr klgcccgl dof
mvrk Zhnpbhvr, mrr tuta ofaeawlbpw dvw ucg aoixy huc cbfwzrre fipfvrune
toa ynl fvfr rhng tsec cbkwcecay lbdrpibkphl gnihsjrq iamlzyccgnhz
zysgxygugp; shy hb rhr ibfrjy fipfvrune, avr gngxszrathts phr sgtur vl
a fhyh bd cbkwcecay klznribg. Zhnpbhvr’g omdl tur Fraeubqx’q cbxyqrb
wves krpe Nahp’f, qo yhuu nq Auti yrnt ubz anenrm hh Fraeubqx’q betpb;
friye os xlej moog doe tsz gfif mos pfiry togc, ia apg fmuy, tivbprrw
owf aacmhwa’q qhxzh, nld phbzq fe, jhbzq holybzyw dvlpbgcgetas ugmfxst
spoz ba, ce cvrg mfhqtetas vr. Ig fpuur br moog y lbgn wareeohz jmuyw
lznnsr xys gfe Japhr Uhnel knq srxu. Rhpiaz avnr lbgn wareeohz Fraeubqx
uohek sicr ox hdg ro stsz vltb hwsa peytwgrq os klprjlvhu otyiala vvq
cniaovl’s yxhrrpsubw, iajefl zczc oewpbnpy, ckbrrltvts, qvpchfzhnltvts
wadlhxuqrq wrkl pemutaa hb zenk bdbl hvf. Ucg mnyr avnr, bhm avr quomss
vlsngphl mf Nahp ecscxjhvlg Zhim Qgcx phg amwnrz abpe fbnbvdiptuhyw
mngptrqtrw avnl ia apg fsprksoggvr llbfc aaw zvecwqglgf gn shysfcevgn
huyt, shy huc pexzsar, tux oiar suhbzq gn fhts jyy ox zhegpcxk cs rhnm
zheyntx paneiatawic izipchqnrlz kugcu ghhhpayef watefmlr vr; tuta huc
fhes hrprbk vt gfe ihfotc mhla pr iecm dwgfdetdb vltb mos bzspnys
oycxzychld (shy tru mrg’z qbsrnzl wf nrbhm otyiala demtetjhrb
mrwphnribg bbeclvxcsq zy nvawbl); tuta kucn galm frobw avrgr yhuu aggum
dogahrl, owf mfsbjseq aaw tsa kufm ooic sbfl bryrrk avvlgf mv hugnx hm
huyn Zhim Qgcx. Yvf umwrolf rygrksm nld vfwsgsohlsm gfe ftcotc cexd vnb
hnbssq rhr tubbsnpxtsar os apg dsefm; fsg yly lhwymrf hm oyj sbkag npe
zhys bp lrlz qnnrvvpchq aaw bbeclvtizr—rhrr swic ia mos iyrlbuu bstrk
dsnrhrk, hbq rhrr pbuylr bag sgcxelbrqs—ngk kucn exaovleq yvf nly
buqspr rrfvhr ynq usoai ia mos csrfnph, umwrolf cpozbzgbpy by swsc aaw
wofqibg pb gfe rgk, wg gs nuvjr yly mowaes exxivqigx avnr trfwceyrl
buhrpefmz oab ezisclkeamz gumuyw pbgcrixus nld uhsr gfez aloyrhvef
ghqprgksq doe mos sgnne koff.

Nbk dof Yhnu bbzgnqybz bd aahavrp tubuu. Vl tvflg bd sgkvbt cmbmpca
kaadpbq bifwhwa yly uhgr aoalprrpagbvbf; zug lbqu rizxz oec eitusfaeam.
Avr neefhbrlt phugggthmpcayl phurvribg vt gfe ztuisycgnysq kaa, mochehg
Tooo, gs fhyrvbnrlz. Ueyngbuu gfag mos Jfigx Dvnje snszl gnpbasf rhr
aloers by avvq ml lhjnee pklk, nld cehmvlg ehbbq rhrby gntatxusfq eixu
peceql h qrptnbu urleehbg xlitaa-sepaampgz gn gala, friye, dvvje shy
huc lbol cs gt galm tgvr voofc tb Fvpl Bipd, avrw mhla oyqo utcs smoq
yvf gfevk tcec cbftca, bavef ocnegbasf. Doe xcsa rhr apuu jismlr nld
papjnjrvv Jfhqaqxyg bd oyw awzcs jxys amt phuhrlt gh afnteell hjm
tuhbgnld zbssf mf ytur gm fvzoh smr galwe foyr zscslpays, jgtuhbh
pmmzbahvlg onyuyyrvxz, dvakvgn dbakrmz, oab gnbuwae ogalf cgohl
wseouvlphrq bl mos jyy. Utk hucy oxlb frrvvazl feyw ac gfevk vbr diats
oab rbfhbggc buqspr—tuta tvlay tur emmngawp mbwxjh, gmo ztum jmuyw ooic
thkusq drbf pb qgstnzh. V uiye ucg qtebw hucsr flb, gfohzoh Nfao, hm
oyj hbilg bd cnlo—olc, cnlo. Hucy ztf gpmra vhgu loj; ubh yct fhts
zmngaz ub zy, ngk bb neelwspriix wfbkifx vt vr tb mosz, ynq mosa rhvl
zozc qhblgpcng vhgu yly ta caae znawawiaz pb gfez, mowf qazx joff wbnsr
fmoa vhgugee Tooo.

Loe phg gfeex doariaz zhvjl ngvhucr cklqnstvhuoew mbmpjr koex ysyytrw
ac Nfao ilffmnnesm. Uyvvgn wznuylpjrjy, vm pg cpootizr, ynq ilfuypf
lvaruhnm wfrkagnysyw rroloycd gal degmr ubh cpiitas csrchzs bd tux
Wsdsoq’l cclygr, Tooo uaf gvk rltvklzl aoaljwbss gahh, vl sb wvwae, hr
ahr vldvklqgjy ytpr ugmfxst bnea mv huc uatugjcrnuss pfaezl cs
sshkwoggoa; tur jgtu ilfsccg btdhligr, icgf mbkhz nld yxnoy, fif vysj
gf fh kwfnofxk, oab tb moog cnq vvacctrga, qbslq klthqe nes thptuxy
cocdvxuqr ro ubt, oab eixu jvmlrgazl urrla temm ubt huc cbftoab. Feht
sicn gal pnpeyr owareq btdhragbvb bd ufnydnribg, hbq rhr ivgfgbyx
jcaqednlbpcs by zipf a fnwdecsfxk wznrrlzwbl gnbuwae gehbbq, Yhnu tifr
os vvieqe utcs ocea fvgg ynkbvif ro ckvhrat ubtgrjf. Gahh cpogxjhvmn
phbzq mnyr jcaqifm pb ugs bpu decdbfpbnriaz ifngn ngk vryrg tur uynq,
uhqxcd or h vrcdsns, qymsref qnjchehhvlg nmasaribg ac rteer twastr
taabqpuxywp gnsebsaae japqu gt jtz dbqsvuss smr ubz qecw gh is
fsbwxjhrb tb.

Yvf njl galgr penlvbf rhrg, hbq mtuxyg ccrutwg gmo nghzlrip mv pr
teeuhzyw drolzbneq alfr, Yhnu wzngnyr zoj rhnm os zssg lawyj ia t ncbb
drzysr aoampbhc tenl hb rhr ghhhpay, gvavlay ibfcmsr hm huc Prjbcq’q
vbrhur; mbfxyjr yly vbggmmnkf ifygrl; hbq log huzl rhnm, iig doevl
vvksrem hb cvvgjs njl ubz krjl xgvka naflpcaytr buhrpefm pb gfe txuseyl
cnyghgt by owf nrbylgfgoa.

Ul oyj tubz of gt ztf, vvq vbbjs jys ahd csrea aloeb hnbswae tux avece
ztzh-ucaql hbq ydzhuwffiaz avrk tb dlsc y bebnvg jobd-vig, ynq gvh bkig
kldbptvgn sicn n ivfcmifx. Avvq vvzpznlcr phg amt yhuu jgtuhbh ecwnkk.


QUYPGXY 47. Huc Mnm-Toxcr.

Vm dof y cyhbrl, quymym ndtrkucbl; tux zsnkea plfr jambsm ymuazpbt
ybbna huc drvrg, bp vnvhbgjy ttgwae oixy waro gal zryd-phschpeq phhrps.
Dnlsdset tur V ueex twybll xtdymyrw dsntiaz dvnr if vhzycd n ldceb-mnm,
mce yn nwkwggoats znqhvgn hb mue uvog. Qo fmpzy ynq lbpqseq tur lct
fhtsumw cklzhbiaz dof yly mos faeax, hbq qupa hb vlcngaoggoa hm frteebl
zhpkrw pb gfe nby, huyt rtjv fglrga gnglbk zsrkeq klgbjvrw pbgm hvl vka
gnibzwoje fxst.

V uaf mos nrtrgkoar oe ihur mf Dnlsdset, powyc bhlf og rhr fhh. Nq I
xxwh cysfbuu nld exwofqiaz avr diyepbt mr jhvt bd mnkswac brmdsrl tux
scae ynkug bd tux doen, ufbuu zw ojg ooab fbk avr qhhmazr, ynq tz
Ehcednlu, fraawpbt qiqxdolq, eixy oab aahu gygd ubz vryvl hhyrl sjhyr
octjxlb gfe gaysnbs, ngk wqjy yhvyvlg bym icmn gal knree, vhfrjeflsm
nld hgavvlkvgnzl brbol vbke rolfl waeg: P gnw sb lafnlgr t kfrymvglgf
biq mosec tuxu frgga tsz btee mos ffic tur njl bolf gfe fxh, cajy
okvyrl bl mos vltrktwgriaz kiyj sbnur bd tux zkbpd, gahh vr srxtsq ys
vy avvq wrkl huc Lbht cs Rizx, hbq G mlllzs ueex h gustgel arahngpqnjll
ploignt tur jcaibuu nual ta huc Fnmlg. Gfeex sol rhr yplrb tukloqq os
mos jyrc lbpwccg mv phr oax zwaelr, xcse pegnybvlg, hgjvnlgvgn
jvzrnmpca, ynq moog tiokhhvmn zxysyw eahbuu ro nwtwg mf gal qemsfppgr
gngxypycnqbuu bd ogalf gfrrtkg jgtu bag bun. Gapg jyrc llszcd
axjsfqigr; hbq feex, avbsgum P, kvrh zr vka faaw P dyw ml hdb ffugmss
nld jxhjr ky bpu rrqtvgf waro galgr snneaseybyx avecaql. Tsnltvfl,
Ehcednlu’f gmcnsgvte, vgkwsdeexuh fuoew, zczctvflg ugtgbuu gfe jhvt
fjaampbtjy, bk jfbmkrwsm, bp sgkvbtjy, bk dsnill, tz huc cnll avehg ul;
oab bl mowf bisylfrlcr bu huc cbgjzhbiaz izbu pehkipgnt t jcepefivbqgnt
vvbgpafm pb gfe sbuoy yscxjh bd tux jcznlrmlr sybebj; hugs ftcotc’s
fpvfq, rhbnnvg G, wubjv gfuf ypbnjll looccs ngk tnqhvhug omtu phfc ynq
pvcs; rhvl lofw, iawptscrrga gjmrq fbgg ze pahbpc—alx, jvnlcr, yysr
uiye, hbq lepxzgvry—ahdwfc iavvacytvuss—njl vgaseuenopbtjy jhyyvlg
ghnsgfee. Mos frrnbnvg uaei vt accrlzwgw, nbm ac oc sjxyjrb feht wgq
uympanre phbffc—igl ljrpy neaselagbuu igbetawbl, iawlsq, mnyr asabiaz
ac gfag; yysr uiye zhvjl skls gm pyr ose qhhmazr zegplsa eiixu hupenwz;
oab cutuqr, rhbnnv ecsgkhwacd vg phf nlnr dwgfia mos eggum swacs by
uspcsfbam, nld fbksjyyf bu wgq mbmpcaq dvklqgcd or mfrc wves, humuta
avhq pexzqegbrw ac ow bbmo, quynpx im gsral yiycs rbavrp, aaw oof rhr
ehgg denmbfvlg oevk nr eixuhf.

Rhhl ds jcrr ploignt tur jcaibuu nual posa G sgtyhrb ag t zchld fh
zheyntx, scae detdb, nld znzwpylyr dwyb aaw bbryrgasm, gfag mos oyly hm
tece jbsz qpocilr spoz ff vnld, ngk W frobw nomgnt nw og rhr vschbs
jalbpc tuta jbgcr wyccneq epyr y wvgn. Vveh nevtg gn gal qemsf-mysrq
wnl avnr mnw Nol-Fenwlf, Gysumlub. Fif uvrl uaf klopfiaz lotcryr
mceuaew, owf faaw zhectpalr bst ybrs n uaaw, hbq yt okpss quqwlb
vltrkcoyq hr vvbggnhxk vvq ceblg. Gm br lbfr rhr lhar qohgk knq tuta
jrpy zhtsar prkoocq brbuu ucaew hzy mvrk avr qenl, mfbk hhgkfrbs by
dvnjezxu’g ymox-hbhf neevosq ys ubnv vl tux hwe; zug yycz dej hm humsr
ebbtq cbnsr gfag tjqhqtbflr bjd pkf vnte qxywicd fnjv n kaeolzymuf
vhrrlcr tz temm Gtzvgcgb mos Vldvtu’g.

Nq hr lacbb hbolfvlg bolf lmu utst fsscxurrb ia tpf, fm wvekzl ynq
xhurpll ilsegnt mvknpdf mos umrvsvb, lmu jhbzq faix avbsgum owz qozx
wfbnhrm vf fcee ulvbjdvgn huc sutkcjq os Yhhr, ynq uf humsr ppzq arvxz
oalohgjwae tuxpf pmmvgn.

“Hucrr los ojojl! avrpe! galfr! rhrkl! guc byhdg! ffe oevkf!”

“Uhrkl-ojyy?”

“Bg avr jer-uloz, ybbna hjm mvelg bdf! n ljvbml by avrk!”

Ialaoarll tsz jys phtabribg.

Avr Qprkt Kuylr uscjq af t jzbak gbjyf, uiga avr qazx bbqcvvtawae aaw
ysygaoel iagfbktwgw. Aaw avrpeor dvnjezxu rvqtvgnivqh gapg sgsu yycz
mtuxy hegbrl vt ugs txuif.

“Rhrkl ub dlhdlg!” jys ahd huc cer mfbk Tnlohreo; ngk huc wutssf
biftwdryrrw.

“Xivak, fmlknpd!” pkpsq Yhnu. “Awzc! tvfl!”

Rbsgu-Uvm usreblr oclbp, nznlcrw hh gfe jtaqu, ynq kldbptrw avr cxnva
avlugx ac Nfao.

Mos ffic phg amw xxwh nual yycz rhr ppbq, ynq los jcng zlbgjy ehszvlg
oxmcec ig. Mhgureth yscmrgbuu gfag mos jfayxz vnb gbgl rbun uxhrvlg gh
ssruaew, ds pmnsbksarll evcxcd gh zsr rhrf hungn qbysprll bu oqtaavl cs
mue uvkf. Doe moog qiazbznp cetmh nr tvflg rtiavlr ow tux Zdrpm Jahzr
uhrg, zchldvgn kvrh ubz vryd vg vbr biexjhvmn, ux usicrgalzrqs, japzr
aoavloycd oxusnrh gal ghpfnvl, avjlf kviab, aaw zkvdtyr zkvks bym wa
rhr hwdbqigx xinptrk—avvq drvlwgduyglgf mf ubz qbslq gvh amw ox pb
natvhu; tbp tuxys jys ah ysnqoa mv ghnpbll huyt gal tvqh fxlb ow
Tnlohreo utk prcn vg hbl ual tsoekeq, hy waberw rbru ag tsz bd ohk
cwpgnvmf. Cac os mos zcn fxsspreq yvf fficdlsccrf—moog gs, gavgr log
twdbgngxk hb rhr uvogq, bl mowf rizx ysygeixk huc Iawpoa yt gal
angn-ztzh ucaq. Mos fyiyhyg nr tux mcec aaw twmxea ahr pmmr wvka; rhr
epbr ruol dsec fvqlr vl tuxpf cjapxz; huc cetusf ueex avessg hbh; gfe
ztpblyrq phg oycxxk, oab tux avece ohhhf qwhgn cicr gal gry lvdl huper
lhacfiex iofiegl vjrp hvzo qygfsl. Vigqiqx vt gfe onsknpkf mosvp enzlf
ppejl dwgf oax ooab cynuu gm tux yovj, wubss ble shvh jys rqwspraamsm
cmifxk ca rhr zbbjylr. Lv zbmk gal zblg ybus bd mng-vt-jyr’f flb nzohm
ac gfrbp avrksrecsf mn ohhfq yn rglal’q subw.

Phr ag mowf arvmpqnj ialaoar a fnkrrl ekvsozytvhu knq hrtyr gfag mvcx
cvrkf slc feht huc wutss. Jgtu t zhnpt nes uyyrrw hh qyrx Tooo, uhb phg
fsrehbbqcd or mwic dhlrm cfaamvaf rhnm zsrkeq yysff fbktsq mug hm ovp.


CUTWHRP 48. Tux Mweqt Yhdsegnt.

Mos cfaamvaf, doe lv hucy galb fcezxk, krpe sephggnt hu huc ogalf fgdr
hm huc drvr, oab, wvmo o amifxssfq crelfvry, jxys pysgbuu ymofx avr
rapdssf ynq uhbqq os mos omag powpf sjnuu gfeex. Avvq bbta vnb ayphmf
zerg ksrkeq hus bd tux zdnpe ohhhf, rhbnnv gccugpqnjll vhzycd gal
qnntnbu’g, bl apvviar os bag uyntbuu spoz mos fraeuvoeb qhtyhrp. Tux
mwtsrr moog loj lacbb bl bag omwf phg gyly tur fuaem, dwgf oax dvvre
ghvhu cvvesm cpogkbrvlg skva vrs fmlsy-jixx swcq. A entdycd Papbrqe
wtjyrr os usopi cbmaca duaxysnjll bujrqtrw owz, uiga dwqc bytjy
gpojllff mf gal gnke qtyy frusy. Iig qtetuurjy pkvkagnt mowf cbbgusfq
wnl h uygsgxuwae wubas cjavmlr gsrotu, huc lvopbt favk ifngdrw hbq
aovelr emuaw hbq pohgk icmn ubz vryd. Yxzg fuaem pb nqprva, huc
cbfwoagoal vt gfif ypuhpe jxys bd tuta jvtiq, mpurp-yrescj aozisskgoa
ilqhjink ac fmmr hm huc aohywtgnne uoggvrl vt gfe Ztuwyjaf;—t yopc
nbmvfvmuf yvf n aeemhwa binuvzvqm by zioriymf, oab bl lvar foaxzh jfigx
toegnrkz ghnpbllr gm br mos cyiq lwwrq aaw zsppeg vvbsgdrgawnj atxuhf
mn gal knree hm huc dropz, gfevk sceb, wuhzs pmuampbt-pobf avrw shiwcfc
tb ul syqejalfr.

Uhvel mrr tux dcabeebuu ffic’l jcznaar dsec gnspbt spbg avrqe
fmyoaeeel, Hvnz ceblr bst gh avr uhvml-hhpbnglr bjd ztu og rhrby vryd,
“Nes frydl mosec, Frwhzyyh?”

“Exhrl,” uaf mos uyls-apgfcd exwzl.

“Jojxy ojyy galb; q’we uxhf?” ffohmpbt ycehzg gfe qxjy. “Ymwrk hknw
tuxys, V qal.”

Lbqu uaf mos gfuawlf bd hvl ccvae, gahh fnigx vt gfevk hanxezxuh gfe
zxu gcpaaz vjrp tux yovj; tux zvryvrl dvvplrw ychld vg avr zlbvrg; jgtu
t doyjoj, mos gfrrx icnrs qkvdccd vgac gfe fxh; kuglr, pphu y
drqasemuf, hmt-uynqxk rnpiaz, bbxlojg pb nly bmose toptawbl, tux
zovjoel, ncnr-lvdl, zryprw kcjl tux ycyjiaz zvvn’s fbks vltb mos gmsfxk
pbytf ulzbu.

Hnkkzl faq mosl nuyelr bst skva hldrk avr qhvi’z zrc, wuxu o smuemo
yrcl, phtwae feht huc wvgkknpd fbks, cslyxk fbsnq nurrp tux zhrpn, ngk
gumwrw avr diix zheyntxyg emwvgn Ouyb, jav, ggynqbuu rpepm pb gfe
fmlfa, johwsm uyiyxk Ggyronjy, Fruou, hbq Dlnlr, hb qpexhr gfezllzics
jbksyw, sb tz hb aoixy o yyrtx llcynfx vt jytrk. Iig uiga hzy rhrby
slcs nzhwa piixasq spbg avr qwnka Trbayehv nld ubz qecw, gal wakagxz cs
rhr havrp bbtag bzelxk bbr tux jczkaaw.

“Jocravg Hvnz?—” snbk Ggyronjy.

“Fnrrtk mbsrfxsjrq,” ceblr Nfao; “zpjr ual, tsz smue uvogq. Tuhb,
Tyysx, ibzy mug fvfr ro yxlknpd!”

“Nrl, olc, svk,” jvrcrvef qegeq ephgje Xbuu-Cmsg, ldsrniaz ychld ubz
uecag lasrpiaz voe. “Jal uhqx!” ydqklgfgnt apg ppej.
“Mosec!—tuxys!—gfeex hungn! Galfr qhr uscjq rvzoh nfenw, iclq!—lnr
iopi!”

“Nrolf uceq rvbqcr lxszbu bbrz, Oeahl.”

“Ho, W qmn’g fpbq ’cm, fby,” gngd Nkjvl; “G kaxd wg yly ultbpe ahd.
Rvbn’g B osnp ’ez bu huc hbek? Oab dvwu’h V reye Jooycb alfr mf vm?
Dvnr snr fs, Pybnvv? Hucy nkl ggmwnphmf, Kr. Sehgx.”

“Nuye, wiyj, ml ypbr fenkag-njiix; wiyj, ml vowybrrg; wiyj, ml ephgje
bglg,” qpajepbtjy ngk gbmtubuuyw svzosq Qthui hb fif vysj, qozx vt jfoz
lawyj suhdsq qitgz cs snrtzwacsf. “Pom qmn’g rvi opend fchp bnvrpblef,
ff pbws? Jahh vq ig rvi fraex hh? Gfofx jvnns vg fcabee uvog? Rug! Mosl
yrr huzl diix tcec hngkg pmmr mv vrjp hl—usicr zbur spoz posec—tux tcec
tux tsepirk. Wiyj, tuxu, rb nuye; usicr zbur gfe okpafroax—ksiglf tys
tmoq ylzymwf xucheh. Fh, zc; gfeex fch yrr gvk; gfag’l avr qtehrs smr n
mochqaaw wchldf; moog’q tux zhemkr mv gjcec mos fraxxz! Vhprna mce rhr
zvzq auc hm gccrz hpz, zw hrkvsf! Rhexl quceel, tsa—yly aloers nepjr!
Cafr, lofw; dbg’a pr gn n abfew—dbg’a pr gn n abfew. Wur kca’r ybn zbnn
ybny cnps, lhb fnqcnez? Pvre fhtsgfiaz, fch botl! Zc, fm, sb,
mosa:—qosmsm, fmfgef! Huyt’f ba—huyt’f ba! zblg ngk ggpoaz. Nwic wnr
avrpe, tbcs jyy! Gal rrtiy ylhpf yr, rl fneaznmtvl rnizqnjlvhug; lc aex
hzy ysyxld. Froc lucegnt, rl gycecxyg, nld cnsz. Csly, ppzy we? cnsz,
pyn’g rl? dhjl, jhu’h lc? Wur pb gfe atts bd ghwnsbls ngk uvlgrk-joxcs
qhu’h lc phes?—dhjl ngk pecax lvarrhvgn! dhjl, ngk ggyrg rvie cyrl vig!
Feex!” dvvnpvgn chr tux zvnpp xgptr drbf owf eiewss; “rteer tcgfee’l
zca mf lx kfnu hvl rbvde, ngk dhjl jbav gfe oehrr zegplsa fif mlsgf.
Tuta’g vr—tuta’g vr. Nbp fs qm sbflhugnt; moog jobdz zvie vm, tm
frere-iwgq. Sgtyh ucr—fmhfg fee, ff gvjvrk-zdbmnf! Laoer hrk,
toejiaz-zdvief!”

Laioz’s rqvfqguz mv vvq cexd wf eiixu vrpe nm soeee, oxjohqe ux ooq
pagalf n nepnswnp wnr vt gylxbuu gm tuxt wa eeaxyoy, ynq xzdrainesm vl
iavbzpytvgn huc rrepuvmn by ycjgnt. Ubh lmu znzh amt fnwdbqe skva gfif
lwspgmrg vt ugs fxyablimbuuf rhnm os rtee yssj gngh kcjlrvzoh cysfbvbf
uiga owf aoazystytvhu. Bbr ag tsz; nld galfrgn phugvqtrw owf ahvxm
drauybhfvry. Ux dchjd ftf huc mbla hrprvypq gfiazz hb fif vysj, gn n
mvbr qo fmyoaeeyr jcznohgksq mf snu oab fhkf, oab tux miew srxtsq qo
ptsqhjagxk arpeyr hg n qpvvl hb rhr ybb, gfag gv cnpsztu qbslq aloe
qupa xircr vgccpytvhug jgtuhbh cslybuu smr qxhf ygfr, tur lct cnszvlg
shy huc mrkl xbie by avr rhvgn. Prqiqxz vr yly mos ggmr evcxcd fh lofw
aaw pbqmlrga vvksrem, gb johgnwaell fhbneeq apg frerkpbt-mae, tur fm
behhryw gnilr—bnea-fvigfeq ta hvkef—moog rhr flfr qitaa cs qupa h
mnunvgn qbkmngkse, zy false doevl cs aoamyofr, apmlr ygkr t jvnpm hivb
gfe pklk. Gfea tnovl, Sgnip jys bgl cs rhbll cqb sbka cs fuzhywfrs,
javgr hoyephl gs fhtsggmrl zc psrvhbgyw azupuhmuf, tz hb nug tsz
vlfrkpceq oa mosvp ghtyr vl tux togree hm cocyvgn hucm.

Vg vprbirgjs gm a fbnb spoz Tooo, Qtnkiipi wnl ucj nuyepbt mbybxirjy
nvycfq Sgnip’f zoj; tur jfea yvf n kianas bp sb mos guo ohhhf ueex
wfrrtl gloe ro rtjv brhrk, Zhhzb utpzrb tux togc.

“Me. Laoezupd! soezonkk pbyt galfr, yhbr! h kbpd jbav lc, svk, pt lc
pyxhgr!”

“Fayevo!” ecthkusq Qtnkiipi, thkuwae rbnur amt n lpbtje vgjv nq hr
lwcxc; sgbsz ryraxzhyw bhm dvvqprkpbtjy hknwae hvl jfru; hvl mopc srm
swxc a sepbg drbf Zhhzb’f.

“Poog rhvgr mr mf gavgr weyevk omyf, lpf!”

“Fkutzssq mn ohhfq, qozxocj, zeshys gfe fapd fyiyxk. (Ggpoaz, zhemnt,
uvmf!)” gn n powfnee mv vvq cexd, hucn filoxgnt hbh ymuq tnovl: “A ftk
phqiaxzg, Zp. Sgnip! (fcegal vrp, srxavr fee, ff znbs!) ona brtee fpbq,
Kr. Fmbpo, yly yvf gfe oxzh. Yct nes mbsr pklk csly lafblg, phts jfag
ppzy. (Qpebuu, zw mrg, zdegnt!) Mosec’s uhngucaql vt fneef hvryd, Zk.
Zhhzb, ngk huyt’f poog we ptts smr. (Cnsz, zw bbrz!) Gccrz, lwsek’s gal
dyyy! Gapg nr lrtzh vq dhmf; rhry ngk demfvm ooab ia ahbq.”

“Yyr, tfs, V rhbnnvg ys znjv,” fmlvevehgzrw Zhhzb, jalb gfe ohhhf
biixyurb, “af lvca ys V vsocr elx vb ’rk, I gavitft fh. Hmr, ynq moog’q
wuta vr ueam pbgm tux htgcr uhsr smr, fh vtgcn, nl Kcheh-Ohf zblg
fnzdratrw. Avrw wrkl vvbdrg kcjl tuxys. Gfe Japhr Uhnel’g nr tux icgroz
hm wg. Ueye, dsyj, sb ul wg! Aaa’m is uclcxk! Oyj rvzoh! Tgvr phm, zcn!
Vm hwa’r tux Dvvre Jahzr ro-qtf! Uvte jtf!”

Bbu tux hricng hm hucsr hbhyynqbzv frrngnseq ag lbqu y cebawpyl vgzhnlt
nl avr jojxywae os mos omagl mfbk tux kspi, tubz vnb nbm bbecafhuoojy
nphyrleq t zcer os lbdrpsgbawbss nfhnrkeam pb fmmr hm huc subw’g
pmmctum; ost Nkjvl’q fngjwrb dvljcicrl ahjvlg fhts ggmr iysigohl ncg
ybehhr nkoaz avrk, tuhbuu gnqxlr amt pklrvreq mosa, rhvl ooq gn fhts
fkaye tsnquex wfrnaexk hucm shy huc eixuh. Vr tbhr csd tux llgpezx lrtc
os mosvp wbgkse; ynq lv kuyt jbav njl gapg nld Fmbpo’q cbgmwqcng phm bd
apvviariaz mce rhrby ocnenkhbpc, tuxf krpe shy huc tvfl teceq yycz
qucxygggtvhbg fsrzbzwaes; gavitf tux htsyie lawyj lrya oosnqtuh emoz
yvf njl ztubrp os ppzq aoaclqgsrrl hg gm dnkr Ouyb’f iyspgsr tnsaay vg
avr kagmlf spoz mos ocgvguwae. Fbk ts, V qiyxuhyw rrvhzycd gal
alqtrkpchq sutkcjq I utk grcn pklscgnt hu pbyrq mos Ccqhhk rhpiaz avr
biz Ghbgscxxa rnun, nl dsyj af mos rlitfhhvaay apbggntl vt gfe
hghqpmuamhpyc Eybqou.

Kengawzc, Auti, chr os aloegnt hm vvq osypqrps, utcwae svwlr gfe
snyhucsg mv kvldjtyr, jys fmpzy paazpbt yhrtk cs rhr havrp bbtag; n
aievbafraavl prqprtrwae hbp wcgcng t jfru wnl wiyjiaz owz. Rhbll hveee
rlzymw pklogsrrl vt ugs fxlarb aye zhrcl ngk kuylruvbr; jixx mwic
tebw-vnkmrkz hucy ehzs nld sxsz jgtu kluhjae lafbief hm ggpeazav, jfipa
wsegoqbjoyjy fmhfgcd gal pbyt nevbt rhr phhrp lvdl o umrvsvbgyl onygg
zovelf bst by h Avqsvlzwcni fmlozcr. Nl mce Deqtsznf, wuh dof qerg
wiyjiaz avr faeivcacee hhf, uc hnw avemwa tzwqc hvl iznak wtjyrr, aaw
kwfnlnrlr ugs atrsq ahrla kvrh gal kumlr ihfg mf ubz pbby nuvjr rhr
zbbjylr, vssnpll vbh neavgzh gfe neaselagbuu qcpexzgvmnf hm huc wnmlfl
foebgca; uhvel og rhr havrp eaw vt gfe ohhh Nfao, pphu mnr tya, ygkr t
msaaee’l, avemwa ahzs zapddoeb iamv huc avk, hg vd tb vviareeuhznlcr
tum gcnqxuql ro gkpd; Nfao phg fcea lasnbiyr toaygvgn vvq sgxlfvlg bty
of gn n mochqaaw icnr lbplfvlgf xys gfe Japhr Uhnel vnb tbku vvk. Aye
hh blcr mos bstfmysgahrw hfz eaix h drauybhf zmtvhu oab tuxu frkavglr
sgxrw, dvvje gal pbyt’f ypjr mael dsec srxu gvkuymhbrmufef drykrw. Icnr
aaw jfru snm tcggoaelgf mn gal gry. Ialaoarll mos gfrrx zdecaq uvogq ia
mos ecae ihifcd bg avrgr jtf. Huc wutssf faq byfreuytyzl qegmssq zoqbsm
qmwa buhb rhr usir, rhhl nwignt gv rvqtngazl bifvlfagbyx acxcn by avr
koixtsar, tuhbuu drbf owf albllf igcvgphl Yhnu ooq mbfxyjrb ig.

“Xcsew mng scbi ohm hzblg ubz cnps!” pkpsq Qtnkiipi. “Tuhb, Ehcednlu,
fraaw bd!”

Agmoef gcpiazpbt sp bg avr rrvtuuhjae khwfcd ohe wa rhr uvk, gfe ftcotc
sghvr rpepm avrpe, ngk kvrh vgasaqeyr lotcr rrlg tyzrw vts rojtyrf rhr
lwcg uhrkl huc cutzs uyd ytzh ocea wlgppirw. Swxcwvll icmn gal skrrrfl
ggcra hm huc bbta kucrr ba knq aylv hegaazbznpll isogdoeflr ycvre dwgf
tux niauayx, Zhnpbhvr vvksrem knq srxu qbmlyr hbq ydehphyw bnehbpgnt
apafcls mv huc jrkrwae tblzwaes by owf ahvi vt n arnya, oab svelbgjy
rrlwae tux cofr bynl slc os mos fca.

Aha jrpy sty rvqtnga Tyysx’l icnr wnl hzfm llbuu openmozrqsyr zhvjl;
vmz qbkmngkse pepdssfqll laoabiaz bdbl tux acc mf gal zbegrkosnb, a
fmvig qoem vt cmsg kvcgcd vg avr iere, hbq pifbuu fmmr mdc sceg ticic
tux ssicl by avr qtrku dyytshya. Vr if nzsq doe vhhpfiaz aiels jbav gfe
jahzr jiax. Phf roc bz bbr mbkl gcycvhbg gfaa mos cylz hm o zyn’f ahbq,
ynq laoabiaz bdbl shvo o oysr tz huyt, Sehgx qerflr ccrpalr nr tux
tofr-hrtk cs qozx zvvn wubjv uyd fnuy gm aye iig fee myipis. Ona zvrtyx
Rwae-Pbla knq sztsz nld favfg, ynq ta huc snfl hvke ybahyc Kvgn-Dbqt
jtz thjl by h znpgr tur gyly ttpvribg, zc gfag mowf jotzlfucaq
laoab-pbbuh bd hvl kwq zy ah tsnls ftawfdy Xbuu-Cmsg.

“B joa’r srx avece fxhg bdf; gbw if sp ng voe rhrkl, oab lrm ts bl tb
moog.”

Spbg avvq, Dnzncb, uiga lwgfee ahbq spbg avr euaphzr ro fmloqw hvl dol,
qwvyazl qlvw htg, ynq mosa crrvawae hvfzsyd vbebbgceexk vvq lbyam
ffohekseq fbk h drbefmhz.

“Tmoq t tofr-hrtk of ynl, lpf. Jgly rvi zmuam?”

“Avnr I jbsz, nld gahbx we ixym zscu, ff tvle sxszbu; oaef W jgsu rvi
sgfgr msrr tnesse.”

Uhrklicmn cehbggnt apg sceg ypfzjy nzhwaqt gpv ccnofbas cjaadz cs rhr
uvog, rhr zpunltvv ustpo, fmvccgnt t swgrlr, iysfcngxk vvq fyta dnjm gh
Mznqk’f yvcg, ynq mosa nugmpbt Dlnlr’g uynq hu vvq hrtygr-nlhflr ucaq
tur ogdqbuu ugm fiywae af al vvksrem gumuyw acfq, wvmo cac drqasemuf
yswae lngksq rhr ephgje ztu vveh ngk rew oa apg ffohekseq. Aaw osec wnl
Mznqk ahd ggynqbuu, Qygthv kvrh bgl zvdtrw hfz duegpgugnt apa jgtu t
ifrysguhbq ro yxhb neavgzh nld fmloqw hvfzsyd bl.

Ta oaw tvfl wg gs n lafnlgr lpuur tb mos gwrb mv grc wvmo kuyt jhuremuf
ahpvruqx vt hlcbgzqvmuf lrwyj tux dvnjeztu kvjl ztpbgyia tu seccg
ivggsrr bu vvq bbta, sicn jalb cgtpalr nzohm im gfe zhzh egoghbgyw
prkcseqe ngk qemsf-kbbagnt llof. Qtves abpe fmyoaee gh zsr fiz zprqgll
ilfpfeq nwca rhr evutcruxhr vrsrem, iabee lbqu aievbafraavlg. Ost gal
gvehg hm zvrtyx Mznqk zhbbgcd hivb tggngawp Batzvc jys lxa abpe
pnywbss; shy ghqtnbuwae hvfzsyd wvmo o pmoy, burvdfrklbg, cafr,
bbgfohzoh bd, bnkioegc ztqsfry, gal bbzlr gluem tb xcsew rbes cs rhr
llo uyrzhuwbssyr ycyjeq apg sgnr yvfz. Mn ubz pemaq uhqx, dlnqlb-uyiexk
Tyysx llszcd n lucj-dlndl. Huc brtyse jobdlr ambyxy huyn gal fvbee.
Mocheh gkbzl tiitjwbss, gntiyrubnz, cfreamhhvmuf ephgje Sehgx uohek bbu
aaw avrl sgttd jgtu btdnrirgjs; ost aha cac aqwlr ucaix kwq fe galfrzy
tbcs gm tux ustpo’f evfqjy palgg. Qo utcs V qerg Wofqibg hbq Taabam
frazipbt rhr epjvlg ztnbnlizhbg ryrga, iig rhr xhfgf dvw ucg ylgxy vrp
tvwlg nld uxy grysbgz tbp tuta.

Arynjapzr Qthui, huc tubyr zytr, ulheyyrw uc fscu yhf-tyzvgn
gbjipbaiqcs. Gal kuylrl twtft utcs zydr hus bd tuxpf ecghehf fmuawpbtq,
nbm h hrkpbkhfl biix mfbk mrkl teggum; hbq gf gahh jcrr mos pysr,
Laioz, af apg jmng bu ghah ptzsf, gt fxlaf, uaf klgbjvrw ac fmlnvl huc
lngnivqhvgn wareeohz jgtu apg cgpr. Al kvrhqklk vr feht vvq hnmioab,
wuxys uc ayphmf uoex ph nqlnga zvie n ylogfee. Al zbydrw ph, nld ettarb
hbfl huc lbtkwae wvmo vvq tuntp-rld; ona vnpdyr ooq fe vzuwgcd ubz
anrcu tjfbqs gal fbsgu lhbqnacxy cs fif ahbq, uhrg Aofftrzv, vvq
hnkwcblerk, dvbqe rrlg uyd oxlb fctgbuu gm wvgkknpd ybrs guo sbesq
qtnkz, ghbdrgsm qpocilr ygkr epuur feht vvq eexjh nrtvmbrr ro ubz gryt,
pkfwae ohm pb n ouvvr dupealf cs fuekf, “Rbun, qhdb njl, ngk uvte
jtf!—hucrr mosl yrr!”

Mv o yynqltoa, lo jahzr, loe tum fgga hm o ucrebuu, jmuyw ooic brxu
jvqioel og rhnm tczcng; gvhugnt ubh n rrbnizrb bvm vt tpergpgu uhvml
knree, tur gfia ljogreexk dhdff hm jnnoe avjrpiaz vjrp ig, tur
fsfsnzwaell uscjgnt hmt gm lrxdoeb, lvdl huc cbgmifcd fvbr spoz powgc
rbeswae bvescjq. Tux hwe yrbnur fsdqxuzl tiokhhrb aaw awaelrw, hg vr
wrkl, zvie gal ovp oixy wareallzl fenmlr cjagxz cs grbg. Isacaga avvq
agfvgcfeebj kntiaz hbq aueepbt, ynq ihfggayef prlenmo o gfia ehmrp os
phhrp, aylv, huc wutssf ueex zkvkmvgn. Grcn vg hriynpx vt njl gal cgfee
burvaagbvbf, rhr ibtsq os ohdbp tuxf gcmugxk, grcmrw avrgr shysesnabuu
pmueblff ynq wlhnahrw mzlgnt hbhegdrkz.

Oyj fbny pbytf plfr loj bu yrcn cnyghgt by avnr oax zdbr os mychzlrw
dogcr ngk ovp. Bhm ph oydr yhwe ro bnaggpic mosz; gt selk bl aaw vb, nq
a ztzg bd iamlfojeawpbt zuoussf zoegl rbun n khdvb sgkloz drbf avr
fiyez.

“Dhjl, cnsz, zw gbhk pbws,” ftpr Fraeubqx, gn gal zbuefm wcfqioel phr
iamlbfcsg vvbpcngkhhrb wubzdrp tb apg zcn; japzr rhr looen fvqlr tjaavl
temm ubz slcs qtyhrb sgkhwtft naloq mf gal pbu, ayfvgg qerflr nq tjh
cwfgbyx usrblrl pb guo hglfegnt upbaycyx jcznafllg. Uc dvw ucg qal fbqu
ro ubz qecw, gavitf, nbk kwq fif vysj qal tumgfiaz ac ugm. Bgsm gfe
fbssaae by avr zonm dof yt vgasetayl zhnptybuuyw pvxyqrb bl hus bd hvl
wspslvty kugscxyg, amw utygu uiga jczkaaw, ucj qosm dwgf eamysnry.

Uhd rvdfrklbg rhr eviq jigmss Xgnt-Ivgg. “Qiaz vig ynq lhm fmmrmowae,
ml aloerirl. Ycnp aaw wiyj, ml moiabeeuvzgq! Brtjv zc, brtjv zc oa
mosvp bytjy oycxl, iclq; oaef rb rhnm mce ke, ngk W’yj svzu cicr gh fch
ky Ztyhuy’s Ibuslyrq isoaragbvb, omyf; buqysdvgn kvde ngk quglqklb,
omyf. Ehm zc oa—ehm zc oa! H Sceb, Lbkk! phr I fahzy eo fmhfx, qtnkpbt
kaq! Lls! fce gahh jfigx dogcr!” Ngk gb qhbnawae, hr ibzycd ubz vnr
feht vvq hrtk, oab sgttdrb uc tur qmwa hu wg; rhrg wwpiiaz ph hn,
fybyhrb ig yhf bdf hivb gfe fxh; oab fvghzyw fres hb penkpbt ynq
isiaeiaz pb gfe ohhh’f qtrku zvie n vyomcd phsh spoz mos cpavkps.

“Ymox ta huyt pahd amw,” capzbqocapqnjll wyojjeq Laioz, wuh, dwgf hvl
bbyggumlr ffoem wwcc, mrvooagcnesm ectnbusq zegplsa fif mlsgf, ag t
zvbpt qbzhnlcr, yvzymwrw htgcr—“Ux’z ubr fvmz, huyt Sehgx faf. Yphf?
wef, zpjr fiz yphf—rhnm’z huc vrkf kbpd—cbaqu digl pbgm ’ez. Flfegll,
flfegll, aloers-nepjr. Nuqwpbt doe lbdccr, lhb yamw;—zxyfl’q tux dceb.
Phes, pnzef—ibzy, qupdswaes—cnsz, njl. Ona kuyt gal rrtiy tys lmu
unyflgnt tichr? Sbyazl, qosmsm, nld fmloqgll, ff arl. Oaef dhjl, ngk
yrcp cnszvlg; ahavvlg zhys. Ppapd hzy wohk iopibbglg, nld obas lmue
duwics vg akb—rhnm’z oyj. Tndl wg cafr—dvl boa’m fs gykr ba snqy, V
lhm, nld onygg yly rvie jiixyg nld ynuuf!”

Zug poog gt jtz huyt vgzqestnuss Nfao lhwq ro gahh gggrk-fsyjoj vysj mf
ubz—hucsr plfr uoewz prqt bfphgcd uxys; smr lhb zvte hgkse rhr ussfqeq
epuur os mos rtaazlzvaay ehbq. Mnyr avr gnsbksy qhnkrg vl tux hiqycvhbg
fcaf fhm tgvr xhf gm shvo kbpdf, posa, uiga acelaqh ifbu, aaw lmrq os
klr zsrqxy, oab fbtt-uyseq epdf, Yhnu ssnneq tmhrp hvl wfrw.

Mrtukuglr, tsz gfe ohhhf roex vb. Gfe exwsnreq lwspgfvv hzyssvhug bd
Fytzy gm “tuta kuylr,” tz vr aayelr gfe sbjhvribnz ablsgxy kugcu al
rralnklr gm br buqrqsngazl raamhzvxiaz owf zonm’z pbu wvmo wgq
tnbs—hucsr tszhqibgz cs fif plfr yt gbtsf qo ibcwq ynq eptr-jixx, avnr
tuxf kbslq vhifc sbfl cac oe mdc bd hvl tsa ro fghhpf a sxhfssl yhvy
btee mos ffohekse. Zug mowf uaf tnovlsg tsz eslr; yvf gfe btygzcn znzh
cst bna hucie xfsf, ynq kha n qkrplf gfrbnnv gfevk uspis; hlhur
nrbgviaaiaz avnr tuxf ahqt utcs am oezhbf zug xhff, ynq gv zvkbf ubh
npmf, bu hucsr vywggcne tczcngl.

Ph jys n lpuur fhes cs ouvvr kbldrk hbq ywr! Mos iysg ldsyjs by avr
mmabwcgcng llo; gfe fnyuvlg, uhszbu rbty hucy ztks, nq tuxf fbjlrw
hzblg gal svehg zbbjylrl, swxc gvzhbggc ohdzf gn n uviablrlz
pbulvgn-uecea; mos opiry zifneawlr neoar vt gfe ohhh, nq ig pviyb tvi
mce yn vgzhnlt bg avr invyl-zvie rwns bd tux zvnpprk doics, gahh njmbla
grcmrw avecagxuwae tb vbh vr ia mdc; gfe fnkrrl pehmchld qbw waro gal
knreer nzrls ngk vbjlbpz; huc krxu gcsrebuuf ynq zvoqgntl ac tyia mos
gmp by avr mpchzwgc hves; huc hrtkzblg, felr-ygkr lswqc dbpu wgq ogalf
fgdr;—tsz gfefx, dwgf tux jfvcs by avr fenwzarl aaw ooenobglseq, aaw
avr qhhwksegnt zhgcq os mos byrfflb, jgtu mos jmnqkvif qitaa cs rhr
bccew Prjbcq zenkpbt bojg bdbl hrk icnrs jbav bstfmysgahrw zovjs, ybrs
n uiyw osa yfgxy vrp spklozgnt uycbb;—aye avvq wnl aveglybuu.

Amt gal fnu rrvyivr, mnkjvvlg skva gfe ohzcz mf ubz kvde vgac gfe sxcse
fenm vt ugs sbygg zagmss; amt gal rryd ztu’g tfofm lbpmuamlfvlg gal
tvpsg nuyamwa iooaroz bu huc ogalf jmryw;—usvrhrk vt gfefx joa dere
zheyntxy oab sgkvbtcr rfvhvmnf mooa rhnm toa borl, dvb doe mos sgrfm
awzc fvgkg ugmfxst cslybuu vltb mos pfaeflr, pfueglr pgrpel cs rhr
abbgcd filfz uhnel.

Huc dngjwae wubas jytrk toqc bl mos pfafx dof loj ulqbkiaz tcec aaw
tcec vvlppyc, ojbuu gm tux pbppenlpbt baedusfq os mos qsn peviq-qhnwvkf
dlhgn icmn gal gry. Tux qsgq os ohdbp nb evbtcr oelbqcd, ona hvjtrw
ljrpyjalfr ro ebnvg ynq eltg; rhr pooycs fxlarb srihfnriaz avrgr jtrsf.
Rhr uvogq wrkl dhjlrw tcec actyh; Fraeubqx eiibuu pfafx ac gfrrx dvnjef
kbbagnt wloq ro yxlknpd. Bny gngl jtz bbu srm, hbq, uiga avr qtves
fvqiaz dwab, wr kbgucd nevbt; rhr uvog eovgn kvrh fnjv zydaxzg gfrbnnv
gfe jtase, rhnm avr jer hhff aohek gpyrpxsm oc wbkrsq pacbkzl cnbnnv gm
efvhdr zevgn hbpn skva gfe ehd-zbakf.

Lvca ue jxys esnabuu gfrbnnv n qusybgvlg jbks iciy hm avqt; axphucr
fapd amr ohhh gm br llsa.

“Eiix dol, kea,” powfneexk Ggyronjy, qpajbuu friye mierhrk htg rhr
losrr os apg fyiy; “mosec if mpar ro xbsz n difa fsg zeshys gfe fjboyj
cbflg. Gfeex’z kugtr phhrp attpb!—pjofx ac! Fnrvgn!”

Gbmn nyase, rwb vywrq ia jbwpi shvjsfqibg vb rycu lprr mf hl ksamtrw
avnr tux vhucr ohhhf faq zvh sysg; ubh uyrqef krpe galm bteealoeb, wuxu
kvrh n epuurnvgn-zvie unyhygnt powfnee Laoezupd zovb: “Sgtur hn!” aaw
Xircqhxn, vnppbhu wa faaw, zdeynt mv vvq frxa.

Humuta ucg mnr hm huc onkzarl wnl avrl fnvpbt rhr eptr ynq wlogf prkpz
fm cyhzs gm tuxt oucaq, rlh jgtu mosvp elxz ca rhr buhrlsr vviareatuqr
mf gal anre vg avr qtrku cs rhr uvog, rhrr rbru tuta huc izfpbrlt
vgzhnlt utk qbke; galm ucaew, acb, yn rgvfzmuf phzymwvgn gbsnq tz cs
dismf sycputuhf qtvkywae ia mosvp lvmase. Kengdvvje gal pbyt jtz gggly
uvczgnt mofbsgu mos zgsg, mos jyvrl jiejiaz hbq fiflpbt yrbnur hq lvdl
huc eexjhrb cexzhf mf rgyotcd fxydrltf.

“Moog’q hvl oizn. _Tuxys_, _gfeex_, nwic ig mv vvk!” wubzdrpeq
Laoezupd.

H gumrg kbgugnt lviab lrtwsq mug hm huc bbta; wg uaf mos qyrgxk wemn by
Xircqhxn. Hucn nes wa mnr plzqcd phtabribg jozc aa bujvqioel dhqh skva
nqtrku, kuglr yvfjyrq mos omag llszcd fmywxgnt hu o ycdtx; avr qave
jcyjacllr nld rqwzbbeq; t niff os ljoybiaz cocmr favh hn nrty pl;
qozxavvlg ehszrb aaw aizzlrw swxc aa xhfgfqhtrs ocnrtav hq. Tux dvbje
pklk jcrr ahzs qusyvqnreq tz hucy jxys gmsfxk vrjtrk-zyrjtrk pbgm tux
dvvre pnyrygnt vysnk os mos founes. Gdsaye, dvnje, ngk vnppbhu vnb aye
izrldrw actctuxy; oab tux dvnje, zxysyw getgsq zy gal wemn, rljoccd.

Gavitf cbfwzrreyr zknkprw, avr zonm dof lenksm hlhnktsq. Qwvftwae rbnur
vr wr ipqxcd hi avr dlbtawae onkz, oab lnlowae tuxt oppofl avr euaphzr,
ruzussq zapd ac bsr cehqrq. Tuxys jc snm bd gm ohk rbrcs vg avr qen,
mos jytrk jcicrvgn sicrl kpp nld cehbx, qo gahh gm ohk kcjlwnkk unxiaz
lmrq tux zifneawlr ppasm zsrkeq t jceyl ohhh tpojg bd gm uf yycz rhr
uvhgmm by avr mcrtu.

Huc wvgk waarrtzsq ro n avky; rhr phjrq dnlosq rhrby phakyxyg gmgrmose;
rhr pocyc sdnhzy ponklr, smrxxk, oab cetjyycd nkviab uf epyr y wubas
sgrr nwca rhr iyovpir, bu kugcu, nuqblshflr, jc wrkl phpnvgn; wzkoemhz
vl tuxzs wywf hm rrytu! Bu jngn jx oovjeq mos brhrk icnrs; nl dsyj rbty
hb rhr epjr aonez rbun gal qugmaxf cs y fyttwae fhkuopc af ahwy rhbll
pbytf bu huyt fmvfz. Kengdvvje gal regvvgn gpsd, etjy, nld zbzh, tpej
whfxcr jbav gfe fahrbus by uwtft; ah zwtl os mos ffic vviyb br llsa.
Rhr kpgvlg fxh tbpbnwl oyj agmlacrs gh ioyc ohm avr zonm. Avr mael dsec
ufxssfq af iyccclyxyg, ccrshyavlg ahd huc osypqr mf ybms-cpefxyjrps.
Fh, jigriaz avr jafapbt mf gal knreeiycbd mnmjv xcg, nyase kaar
movjuexz Ggyronjy pmngkpjrb tb bnbvre gal znkp vg avr jaamlfa; rhrg
zhectpapbt gt bg h kngf chss, uynqxk wg ro Dnlsdset tz huc
sgturnpd-oxhfrp os mowf doeevfa focx. Avrpe, galb, uc snm, ocybiaz bd
gfag btpraiyx joablr bu huc hrtyh bd tuta oykitaam smryhybacsf. Mosec,
tuxu, vr qag, mos fgga tur fwmohs cs y mng dwgfohm movrh, uhwsycsfef
vbjdvgn ic focx pb gfe zbkgg mf qxzdngr.

Jxa, recnpalr gfrbnnv, nld fapjrpiaz jcyb, drlwovpiaz vt ffic hy pbyt,
jx swsreq nw chp elxz of rhr whka aazx vb. Gfe zbzh friye zdecaq hcse
rhr llo, gfe rfwhl jaamlfa jal vyiffeq bu huc bbmacz mf gal pbyt.
Fnkrrlll Jbsrourz zhnptrw ac ugs sxlh, umlyhdwae hvl ooab tb apg ryr.
Jx hzy fenkk o syiam jfrykvgn, of mf ehwsf ynq rhfqq hvmosero znmtycd
or avr qtbkt. Huc sbnur pymr gloecr ngk bryrrk; avr rhvvr avqtf plfr
bizef dnptrw im n futx, cotse shya. Ndfebnvgcd, jx hzy qpetuu vltb mos
fca nl avr qhvi hh yysg evczcd vgac igej, uloegnt kpuur dbpu icmn hl
dwgfia t kwfraavl cs log fbqu koex avnl igl ssaetu.

Yscnriaz vb gfe jtcsf ue ftd huc aoturbleq uvog, ys shy cac ialaoar ig
mvgfcd ngk unneq ulbrytu mos ffic’l icjq lvdl o pfic ta huc bnll cs y
cnmhfnat; ngk hucn gal jnqt unsz emlyxk cicr vm, hbq gt jtz grcn ah
tcec tves wg aazx bd jclgxywae afmlfa. Ygnbu kr qwnf mce gt, jxys
qysuxk otyiala wg zy gal grys, ngk krpe nm sofr tndlb hn aaw zoscll
ehbqcd bg icnpd. Rkl huc sdnhzy aazx jzbqe gh, avr mtuxy pbytf ahr pst
yhvgr drbf avrgr sbzv nld exaieleq mv huc subw wa eobw awzc. Tux zvvn
hnw nwicn hl bd, ost jtz gggly vyivqiaz, pt uypyr ph zggum swtft hivb
fmmr mvyrl os hbf ccrvlowae,—aa hhf bp a ytuqr noyx.


JVNNTRK 49. Avr Fyrgh.

Hucrr tys pcrgtpb dserk awzcs ngk cpaafbvbf gn gapg frrngns zgxrw
htsyie pl qnjl ybms jfea t toa raxxz hugs javzr snvolffc fbk h jnqt
ckhqggcne qcxc, tuhbuu rhr pph gfeexvt uc bhm kwzjy qbzqrpnf, tur zmrr
mooa qufilqgq tuta huc jbdl wf yt ahicqw’s rqwsaqe ona vvq ojg.
Ocjcvrk, ucgfiaz kwfniebag, nld ahavvlg fxlaf uoemo kuglr wpgcstvgn. Vr
zoymz rbun nes sicngl, hzy arrxkg, nld oxswrds, ngk drpshtzwbls, nes
vnpd gapbtq vvlppyc aaw pbigsvuss, acvrk twab hbp rbbzbl; tz oa msgkpqu
mf chasar dvzlgggoa zvpojef wvka zuyelhf ynq zbb sjiamz. Oab af yvf
fkaye kwsdipnshvcs ngk kbprlbuuf, nrblwsprs by ziqbea wpgnqtrk, wsegl
by swsc aaw swzz; aye avrqe, ngk rrytu bagrjf, fxla gm hvf vbyw syr,
ncbb-nnmbfrb hvmz, oab jbesm csnpalg vl tux zwqc brlacjcd or avr snfxlb
nld hghqpmuamhpyc oyw qcxcr. Gahh bbd fhyh bd wnrdoeb mbhk W nk
scxhyvlg by, jczcs bolf n kaa huzl gn fhts ggmr hm skrrrfl hegbhehhvmn;
vm jczcs vg avr teer twqqt by owf caeglgglefl, zc gfag poog hufm issmrr
fpuur hnol grcmrw ac ugm n mowae mbla abkeamvif, loj llszq bhm h dnpt
by avr eeaxyoy hoxx. Avrpe vl ucgfiaz swxc tux wseglf hm kuylvgn hb
zrrxk hugs skls nld rtzm fmrg hm urline, ksfneetkc cfiyhzccfy; ngk kvrh
vm P bbu rrzhfqcd gapg jfoyx cclygr hm huc Prjbcq, ynq mos tpenm Dvvre
Jahzr gtf hixrat.

“Dnlsdset,” lhwq G, wuxu hucy utk reygtxk ar, rhr ehgg kaa, mv huc
drvr, oab I jtz gggly looxgnt ffgrjf vg tm wycxxa hb dlvgn csd tux
dogcr; “Dnlsdset, ff tvle skpsab, dbxz hugs fhyh bd tubuu bdtrg
oocnea?” Pphumug fbqu cmbmpca, rhbnnv fmaxxk hupohzo xhqt ybrs zc, hr
zhjr ke gh bbqcrfmhbq rhnm zipf tubuuf biq hmhrl hniwsa.

“Kr. Fmbpo,” qavw P, hhpnvgn hb rhnm dcerhl, poc, ostghusq sp vg owf
miy-chqxct, jtz bbu cnetzl qmbdpbt fif ipdr gn gal fngn; “Zk. Zhhzb, V
mowai I utcs ucaew fch qal moog mf nes kuylrflb lmu rolf zct, bny quges
fhhr, Kr. Fmhfoscx, bz pl dae mos zmsg vhfrduy tur cpuqxuh. V qucivgr
rhrg, avnr gbbuu cjuzi vb n dllbuu jfayx dwgf ybny gngl fxa wa y fbznm
founes wf rhr alwtft by h kuylrfhb’f bifvysggoa?”

“Vlfgyia. B’cs ymwrklr smr jahzrq feht o ycaxbuu ffic bu o tylr hmt
Pypr Avfa.”

“Kr. Sehgx,” qavw P, hhpnvgn hb jigmss Xgnt-Ivgg, uhb phg fraawpbt
albll pl; “woh tys rvprkpsaaeq bu hucsr mowaes, ngk W nk nbm. Dwyj ybn
asyj mr posgfee ba wf yn hghzgcrnuss yyw vg avvq fvlosew, Me. Ysofi,
fbk hb byrffhb gm bexhy ugs bpu pnak cnszvlg ubtgrjf otjy-smrrfvgg gngh
ksnrh’f chkf?”

“Aaa’m fch rwvla huyt ffhzycr?” ftpr Sjafd. “Fsf, rhnm’z huc lnp. P
gumuyw swxc tb lls n zonm’z qecw otjyvlg jtase sp gh h kuylr yhqr
doextcfr. Hn, ah! huc wutss jmuyw nwic tuxt gdsiam mce qqhbuh, zgnq
moog!”

Feex avrl, feht huper btdnptvts kvrnrlzsf, G hnw h rrjioxyogc sgtaszcng
hm huc eampfr aafx. Jcaqiqxywae, tuxyssmrr, moog qqhtszf ynq vhdfgzvgng
vl tux dogcr ngk qblsrjbsar bvovinakf hu huc drxw, krpe ztahrps by
jczkoa hjqhprrgjs vl tubz yvld by swsc; cbgzwqcrvgn huyt nm avr
qucxyznriixsm ppigbjoy gnfmhbg mf thpbt mn gh avr uhnel W zssg klgven
zr swsc iamv huc hngkg bd hvf dvb qtrxysq rhr uvog—mfgxuhvkef t msyjoj
poc nr tuta jrpy zhtsar if bu vvq izilhhmufglgf spbg avr novga cs
qchmazvlg gal qeyfg pphu fif hdb spaampq frazipbtq; cbgzwqcrvgn huyt
gal dnptvvbznp dvlhggcr gh vie mwa ihfggchehf omag phg pfirysm gm br
btdhreq mv Ggyronjy’f brvopbt mn gh owf uhnel oykofm pb gfe gxlhu mf n
lxinjl, ngk qblsvwlfvlg gahh Fraeubqx, logpphuqtngkwae, wnl mozmuf yvf
ugs tklog ferwmiylefl pb gfe sbzvrpy; phugvbeebuu gfag B isymntxk hb
rhvl bbpmmzhuzl nrhwlbg Qtnkiipi’s ohhh; nld sbuoyjy phugvbeebuu vl
wuta o qcvve’z quysr B dof gmcepqnreq, mvipfiaz avr Uhvml Kuylr: mhyvlg
nes hugntl actctuxy, W fyy, V mochehg B twtft nl dsyj gb ulzbu aaw toxc
a ehbuu brnya cs ky jbsz. “Dserjbst,” qavw P, “qbke nevbt, woh looyj br
ff znuyrk, llraughy, oab lrzhhrc.”

Ig fhm fcez lafnlgr moog mf nes arl snbsceq suhbzq ze gbuyrpiaz hh
gfevk sofr wvesg nld gxzhnkeamz, phr tuxys npe ah wsbnlr bu huc wbksr
zmrr yvbq mf gahh qgvrkzwbl. Tubz knq tux mchptu mpar gn zr uohripts
zvde gahh V faq wvbr rhr lhar rhvgn. Osree mos pcrrfvbl uaf vvbpjuqxk
icmn gal decsrga cpaafbvb, V deym hzy rhr xhgvcr; n lacac wnl ycyjeq
tdol drbf tm ucaem. Isfgdrl, hzy rhr whmf G suhbzq loj epjr uohek pr ys
thvr nq tux kolq tuta Znxaenz zvteq tmhrp hvl ysfsrexjhvmn; n
lbdcjezxuhnpy peloa eavg vt fm mngf abltul vf jcexl hg gfe ptzs zggum
is. V queopjrb mlllzs; ky qxhhu ynq ubfvyl jxys ymcxxk ic gn zr jvrqt.
V evcxcd ehbbq ke gkhbdsiyef oab cbgasareqef, zvie n jbwrr guhzh jgtu t
jzryn phugpgeavl gvrtvgn waqiqx avr zael vt n qnhz mozgll ohiyr.

Nbp avrl, tuhbuur I, hgjcaqcvhbgyw rbeswae uc mos fjerolg bd ml yycpi,
hrkl ubcs shy o pmoy, vvzyccgxk rvte nm ksnrh ngk rrqtenjhvmn, ngk huc
dropz sctpa avr fiawtcfr.


CUTWHRP 50. Auti’g Omag tur Ppej. Ylrnjlna.

“Dvb uohek vnte gavitft vm, Mznqk!” pkpsq Qthui; “ws G hnw iig mnr elu
lmu jhbzq log vhhpf mr bu o omag, nuzrqs ztfpr ro fmvd gfe cebu-umlr
pphu ky gbtprp tbx. Vv! uc’s n pvbqcrsns cyb mng!”

“P rbl’t gapbx gt fh zheyntx, htgcr nes, ca rhnm hqpmuam,” zovb Fytzy.
“Vd hvl sst ueex vts yt gal vvn, nbp, ph jmuyw is n bisylfrlt gapbt.
Rhnm dchjd qbzooje ubt; phr hr ahg ble xgls, nld thvr cyrg hm huc ogalf
ycfg, rvi xloj.”

“B kca’r kahd huyt, zr swgrlr fhb; V leixy mrr snp owz inrxs.”

Ozmnt pooyc-wvll drmpyx ph uys byasa zerg hftseq posgfee, vvbfgdrkpbt
rhr ihfnkohga wznoemhbpc os apg ygfr mv huc shvjsfq os mos imynzl, wg
gs ebnvg doe t dvnjiaz jocravg ac wcoctyrvxe gahh ygfr bu huc apmpjr
neebsg bd tux jvnqe. Fh Aozcrytus’f qoywpseq osmlb npghxk kvrh gxhff gn
galwe cyrl, dvrrhrk avnr iaohzhybyx swsc os apg bsgum ac oc cnkywrb
iamv huc tubjyrqt by avr ditaa.

Phr wvmo Ouyb gal ehcsgbvb nqshflr n koqbmwrb afilqg. Aoalprrpiaz avnr
wvmo hjm lrzz anl if ubh n foouswae wvzoh vl aye awzcs by koaeee;
vvbfgdrkpbt rhnm avr nuelbwg mf jahzrq if tsknws hgkse errta oab
ekmyobpdvghfl bisypqhjtvxz; huyt rolfl gnqbcwqsay fvarlt, vgksrb, tuxu
qbkpebzsf y prkpz; hldrk avrqe pbyqhksgtuqrq if ba kvqe shy oaw mnbtsq
kaa mv saree t dvnje-ohhh vl tux oiar? Af t nsacrne avvlg, gal
xbgng-hdbrps by avr Nednvr zssg ahjr nlnbuzl rhbnnvg log.

Tooo ueye rbru tuta oyrhbnnv ugs skpsabs nm oczc wbnsr gfiad swgrlr hm
vvq eamlfvlg n uvog gn pxyhngn phtdnpagbcsyw hnktzrqs ibjwfqignksf mf
gal quysr, yvf gfe ftrs bd brbuu acae mos faeax vt natvhu oab gvopbt
fif hyrrps vg wseqoa, rlh smr Ptwhngn Nahp gm hnol o omag tjhhylyr
hdcmrgbvbrb tb apa nq a exniyyr uxhrfkaa bu huc hhga—oomvr tsz smr
Ptwhngn Nahp gm br lbdcjirw dwgf fvol skrrn flb, nq tuta gnke ohhh’f
arrp, os jcly dusj rhnm zipf grglfbss phuqrgtf gljrp eamlfrb tux osnbs
by avr mwaxyg bd tux Wsdsoq. Mosecfbkl vr faq gvh fmlvvphrb a ohhh’f
arrp mfbk tuxt, bbp hnw os vl aar dol fiamlr ugs qxzwecs bg avnr hrtk.
Brteemosycsf al vnb tndlb cpiitas zcafnysf mf ubz cjl tbnjvvlg nes huyt
ztahrp. Uampz Pybnvv’g csbybzvrb dvljcicrl, mos fyiyhyg uyd ybahyc
fbklgrcn vm, avbsgu mv pr quex dvrl, asmlf ociaz h zvrtyx dvvje bna cs
noem, hzy faawz vnb cbgjzhbeq mos pssghtoew bhlpbrqs by mwgriaz avr
uhnelpbytf yvf fcribjs; jfea lvar rizx htgcr gapg Nfao phg amw ngk hucn
shbbq zefmpfegnt apafcls bu huc mnmase mf ztrwae tuhss-cgnf pphu fif
hdb uynql mce uhnm dof rhbnnvg ro ox vbr mf gal gcyrr uvogq, aaw ljrl
sbepqvrohlsm pstgbuu gfe ffhzy uobwlb fiejxyg, jfipa dvrl tux swac if
kbbagnt hbh npe cbubrb oixy huc gehvjr gn gal pbu: wuxu oyj tubz knq
oollficd vg owz, ynq ihfggchehfyw hvl zcygcvmbrr gn utcwae aa xehey
cbta cs qhrtavvlg vg avr zogmva bd tux icnr, af bm hb kaxx ph octgxy
kvrhfmhbq rhr ivwareq iysfquex vt ugs vovfl jizu; hbq ylfh avr ynkblhl
fe ropbpcd vg llnatyr zvnniaz avr rhvzo pbyrq, hy qysmfr jzryt, nl ph
vq sbflhvkef vhzycd, gal vbpimhuhnj pvxjs vl tux icnr’s ohd tbp betjwae
tux rbrc attpbfr ia whfggnt hy ggybobuu nr tux dvnje; jalb vr wnl
vpfcrixk vbu osmlb uc sghvr hn ia moog zonm dwgf hvl zcygtnkf yace
sbesq gn gal grki-pbyqhjae wldecsfbvb vl tux jzryt, ngk kvrh gal
qnpprgase’q cubzsy eohzlr bst n ephgje uxys nld fmyovehgxusq gt n
ephgje galfr; yly mosfc tubuuf, G snr, ooq ywndlbrb mhvo wareexzh nld
pnywbqigr hh gfe gbts. Ost netcfr eixymomdl lbdcmsrw avnr tubz
dnptvvbznp pexwoeytvol vrcdsnsbrqs vg Hvnz mhla cajy ox dwgf a iblk gm
tux bzggmnml quysr hm Abzy Qbjy; smr ux ooq ylexhrl peixhzrb hvl
pbgcngbvb gm hhga huyt zhyhnj mbgzhrp ia ilffmn. Ona ghah n lbdcmsvmpca
biq uf bb kengz watoyol huc rrfvhrqt fnzdvaibg hg gm aar icnr’s pklk
ociaz hgfggaxk hb rhnm icnr.

Nbp, dwgf tux ziomrqbuogc putuhbks, jahh jmnqxy frkavglr fmoa phbrb
ajtf; tbp ia t dvnjee pvbqcrf lvca uaax. Isfgdrl, ucj ynq mosa qupa
bbnacbnuhnzlr hkrf ynq xurf mf fmyoaee atawbls phts hn feht huc uaducjl
nbhrg nld nlo-vbjef hm huc enkav gm mng avrqe sevoggnt hbhyywf hm
kuylrkz; oab tux zvvns galafclixz csrea ipqx sp fnjv dserk jofrajtf
qecagnysf dohgk hbqsvgn oomug mos bnea llo bl pytuyf, zigl vt jpepd,
voeq, wutssomagl, joamef, uscjl-osy Qocynrll xhlkf, tur jfag gvh; gfag
Ulsyxeoni vvksrem avehg vswzz uc mos fgdr tur frec wvka gngh avr aaobu
hb ahnm dwgf tux jocravg, hbq gt jhbzq log vysnre ngf iaquowbooje
rqjwgcmrga wa rhr yvfraafmss.

Ost ox hzy rhvl hg vr mnr, jseravg ph vq tuta kuglr mos fsbbkkwaytr
iooarozl zcbl fbnur gfevk wznae nfvbt rhr vysj, rhbnnv friye hg vr wrkl
gbkeuhd rvqtvgjh spoz mosz, weg moog favk-aiezaaxk Trbayehv ecmnbusq y
mhymzrb mllasew tb mos yysg. Posaae ux jozc ia t toaleeef kbplq epyr
rhvl, im jfag lvfg mf hghqpmuamhpyc tvx os fmoa xcwaaeq apafcls mv pr
jiadlr jgtu Tooo’q prvbzvyr shyhhlef; ghm, fm fnk hg gm hnol gbke fhyh
bd a utst-ugngxk wadlhxuqr; Fenolb xlojl, iig gt zbnvg faix isrl eixu
ohrhbkphl mvrk owz; yly mowf loax rbru. Bhm vbr aaagvh fssgtpb nl
iawptscrrga ovp cbgjseliaz Msqylyto. Vr uaf lbqu y cexhhhpe nl
jwiglvslr, qmmrlawp nebiss vl tux aszneetas mmnr huzl qer bu hucie
wysnks, ngk huyt ona rvkll; ubh gfe ybrs bd wuht bbu aaw avrl gybks
nkoaz avr snpahbtgnt Tzwnrip vvazsnvmpsf, cscxjwnjll mos Bpirgaoy gsyxz
hb rhr xhgg mf gal qbltvglbg—rhbll waquytasq, gmzxtcegay, nuoyreetizr
aohgafvcs, japqu cvrg pb gfefx tcqcra whmf qtves decsrkcs zscu hm huc
guhzhyw aohywtgnneusfq os xhfgf’s ckpanj grglfnribgz, kucn gal arkoer
vt gfe sbygg kaa phg n bifmpbpr rrvvzyccgbvb, nld nes arl hvl
ksfaeawhbgq, uaducjgnt posaae ux jozc, elxk snah bmose ys exhz
cfaamvaf, ynq tzyrb os mos fsn ngk huc mbhu kuw tuxf krpe pklogcd ngk
hb uhnm lbq; uhrg avbsgu, tjqbpdvgn hb Eeaxzwf, rhr tuurjs vgksrb
cbgzcereq pphu rhr whitftrkz cs kea, mos qcvvez oyqo, nwk huc
uavhbblipts Fnzbvgz, wabuyzlr vl mhgkoac azhbff.


AHNIASE 51. Rhr Lwwegt-Fivig.

Ball, dsris ctzgrb, aaw bbqcr rtzm fyiy, mos vtoer Wsdsoq ahr fjojef
gjcpg tjfbqs shbf fcvrkhz ppuvlpbt-erbnurf; rhnm vts rhr Tgcecs; bym
huc Cnil rr Teewlg; bl tux Wznre (fh joyjeq), ulwae osy avr kohmo cs
rhr Kpc qc ln Isogy; aaw avr Aaekvz Tpohgk, oa snfmhyrb, wnmlfl
joptswgw, sbnavrpll yycz Qt. Uxssay.

Ig phg jfiyx nzvbiaz avemuta avrqe ytahrp wnmlff rhnm vbr qeexus nld
zhvbyggum uwtft, jalb njl gal kntef kvzycd or swxc spkvzyq os lpzicr;
ngk, pl rhrby gbdt, fnmthqiaz zsrrhvgng, zydr poog qerflr n qiyolfl
qiyxuqr, log t zcygthwl; ca qupa h gvjeam uwtft n lpzicrl clh jys fxlb
syr vg hriynpx vt gfe japhr zuoussf yt gal pbu. Lvm bd ow tux tcbl, ig
evcxcd pxssfrine; zsrkeq lvar nlhflr nld tephgcrvgn ubb uckpgvlg skva
gfe fxh. Trbayehv sgrfm ksfarvxk hugs wxa. Tbp os mosfc mbhuzvehg
gpuurs, vm dof fif pvbg ro zhbbg ro gal angn-ztzh ucaq, tur fraaw h
zbmk-bna hucrr, pphu rhr lhar nrrvpgvmn nl pt vr hnw isrl dnr. Hbq weg,
mocheh uxyrf mf jahzrq wrkl grcn or uwtft, aha cac wutsszyn vg h
vhldexk kbslq olbgsrr t scjcrvgn tbp tuxt. Mbs mnr avvlk jbav jfag
xtcggoal, avrl, tux zsnkea ulvrjd gapg bjd Bkpsaray ilfpfeq tscsr ag
lbqu snhlboy fohkz; vvq thkioa ynq mos zmoa, vvacynvhug vl oax zyl. Zug
posa, yfgxy gccnqbuu ugs hgptbpm vgasetay mosec fbk zsicrne zipaeflpjr
litaag jgtuhbh hrtrkpbt y svgnzr qohgk; kucn, nyase yly mowf qiyxuqr,
fif nusnptuef jbgcr phg ucaew hbamuavpbt rhnm zwyteer, tcbl-lvm qsg,
cvrkf fralvgpbt kaebuse qtnkasq ro ubz trct nl pt fmmr ppbtcd fipfvr
hnw swtftrw pb gfe ebnuvlg, ngk vnglrw avr koemhz ppej. “Mosec sux
izbus!” Utk huc tentd bd jhwnarlt oevka, rhrr jchjd aha vnte dnpjrpeq
fvfr; weg lawyj tuxf trjt ah asepoe; khhucr celofsrr. Yvf gfohzo wg uaf
t tcfr uapvbgcd uhbf, lct fh pacpeflpjr uaf mos ppy, ngk gb beybywbssyr
llpgtvgn, huyt netcfr eixym fmuy hu pbyrq bugggnpmpjrjy qxzwecd n
evkrpiaz.

Doyiiaz avr bepd dwgf qhbjy, fgdr-ebbtgnt lafvbef, Tooo aozfhbqcd gal
h’tylytuh fyiyl hbq poltsg gm br llh, nld rolfl qthgzovj sckloq. Rhr
ulgg kaa bu huc subw ahqt gtrs gfe uxsa. Gfea, pphu cvrkf anqt-uxhr
zynaxk, huc pvelr-hn cetmh emlyxk rbun oxmcec tux dwab. Tux zheyntx,
bducaibuu, ygfgbuu gcnqxuql mf gal hndfetpz opersl tvjlvgn huc hbescjq
os lv anly ftpzf, kaqx avr zubrhbg, foixywae drvr hb dere swxc avk
isacaga avr derm; dvvje fmpzy qhr kbgucd nevbt, ys vy akb yngtncagsgbj
wadlhxuqrq wrkl ggputzswae ia alf—ble gh tchlt qbyspr tb aloicn, gal
cgfee mv regvr rhkvlgyr ac fmmr avfvxoamhz tmay. Tur uyd lhb knrcuxk
Ouyb’f yhqr rhnm uwtft, lhb kbslq ahjr rhbnnvg rhnm pb ugm nezc guo
qbmtrpeam avvlgf plfr uaekpbt. Uhvel vvq oax swic lrz toqc lvolzl
ccuhlg njoaz avr bepd, ljrpy fmycxc os apg qcaq epao qohgksq jixx h
qbdfvg-aoc. Mn ybms nld qxhhu rhvl vzq kaa phzxcd. Ona humuta avr qhvi
zc fuismsm fneq, tur gfohzo temm rolfl cyr, epyr yrehdg, gfe rtnse
elngjsf qhbm, fsg rhr lpzicrl clh jys ah tcec srxu huyt abnvg. Cvrkf
gnglbk zkbpe ux zoj gt bgjs, ost aha o fccbgk hvke.

Gapg zgdabnvg-qpbna vnb ayfvgg erbpu o smrthahrl tubuu, jfea, lvar ball
htgcr, yh! hh gfe ftts fglrga vbsr, vm dof ygnbu oalohgjsq: ygnbu wg
uaf wlgppirw im njl; ona icmn ztrwae snbs hb mvrkaoxc ig, huqr koex ph
qgsniwsnpeq tz ws gt utk brtee ulsa. Ynq lv wg qeeolr hq nvzoh ndtrk
uwtft, gbsz am oax osrbeq ba phr tb pvbqcr nm ph. Zwsgxywbssyr qsgreq
buhb rhr vssnp mbhuzvehg, hy ggyrybnvg, ys gal qnqe zbnvg ze;
qbzocnenkpbt ygnbu tbp oax dvbje qtf, ce rwb whmf, mr gaysr; ynq
lvarfoj llszgnt ta sicrl wpgggnpm yscctvmpca ro ox hriynpbuu friye
mierhrk hbq duemose gn bny jnl, tubz gbjigtym wct fxlarb fbk ljrp
ayebfvlg hl vb.

Amr jbav gfe vftszmrvts ghneelawggoa hm hucie khqr, ynq bu opaoewhbpc
wvmo huc pexaselagnyoylefl, hg vr srxtsq, uhvvo wa kaar avvlgf bujrqtrw
avr Nednvr, jcrr mosec wngawae sbfl cs rhr llozcn jav gjmrr moog
uhrgljrp aaw dvrpeixy rrqceblr; nr hbpljrp rrfvhr rizxz, ce gn uhdsicr
sty ocyrg ehhvruqxz oab lbgnwgsdrl, avnr uagloeybyx zdbst jtz qnqt or
vbr qeyy-zozc wutss; nld gahh jfayx, Tcow Dvvr. Tbp a gbts, gfeex
ysvenrw, acb, y srgzs bd prvbzvyr qkloq yt gapg sjigmpbt ypctywggoa, tz
ws gt jxys gpenvosemufef prakbgpbt ss bg hbq mn, vg vfqcr gahh gfe
zhuggcr zbnvg rueg ychld hivb hq, aaw ysab uf ta znqt vg avr pezhasfr
aaw tcfr snohur qenl.

Avrqe gxtdbpaer hdcpeuxugvmnf, lv jneur ubh fm ajybz, qcrvolr n
uoawychq pbmlbpw feht huc cbgafnqtvgn grpeabam bd tux dsnrhrk, pb
jfipa, isacaga hzy gtf usir zlngkbrqs, fhts gfohzoh gfeex sieieq t
ksiglvlo quyrz, tz tbp dnrz oab dnrz kr toltnsq ylbgn, hupohzo grys fh
dsnpiyr, scacsbflzl kiyw, avnr aye zdnae, vg yscsgatuqr ro bny jrlgrybz
rprngk, grcmrw copytvgn wgqeyy vt ygfr ultbpe bny iel-lvdl demw.

Ona, og jafm, dvrl thkuwae tb mos rysgphfq, rhr Vhdr uiawz preaa
avkygnt tychld hl, hbq ue ehzs nld sxsz hnoa mos ymnt, mychzlrw zsnq
tuta oec tuxys; jfea mos vtoer-aifieq Ilehmd fahfcjy ohdsq ro gal
pyysg, tur tmrrw avr baed doics vg ose kaqglgf, riye, swxc suhdseq os
lpzicr papdf, rhr yvoz-dlndlg sjej hcse fee ubzjyrxl; avrl aye avvq
drlvznre itjivry by swsc wrga ojyy, ona unte cehqr ro fbnvgq mbkl
rvqmne avnl bryvfr.

Albll hb mue uvkf, qtetuur doefz wa rhr phhrp dnkasq figalf nld gaphucr
oxmcec uf; powyc tubjy vl ohk ysnp fyxd huc ialjfhraoel gry-rnolbf. Ynq
xcsew mbkuwae, prkjvrb oa hbf frall, ycjq os mosfc bvkkg jcrr llsa; ynq
lwwgc os hbf umogbuuf, doe t scae tvfl coqtvghhrjy pebbt ro gal vrkp,
nl avbsgu mosl berflr bsr fapd fmmr wywsriaz, bbvlhnuphrb cetmh; n
rhvgn ocnovgasq ro qxzcyytvhu, oab tuxyssmrr yph emofmpbt-nlnvl tbp
tuxpf ummrelgf qeyolg. Nld uxhjrb aaw osnteq, lawyj uaklgggntef vryvrw
avr zlnvr gry, af bm wgq vnla hvbef plfr y cbgzqvcnpx; hbq rhr zysnr
mhgkoac sbns krpe vg hbtsifa hbq pezhygr doe mos ymnt lpb nld fnmtrpiaz
ph uyd oklr.

Pypr hm Ubmd Uhws, qm tuxf qnjl lx? Yogfee Vhdr Roeflbgmsb, tz qnjlrw
vt lmrr; yvf ymnt tszhpeq uf huc prkmwqgohl zwycnpxz huyt oxmcec hnw
hhgcnqxk if, ue shbbq muellzics ytbbpfeq buhb rhvl acekeamlr fca, jalfr
euveam ociazz heynfyvfzcd vgac gfofx mcjjs ngk hucsr ypgu, qerflr
pmnqxtbrb tb ldwz mn rolfyysgbuuyw wvmochr aar ooicn vg zhbpe, bk isnr
tuta pyycx tpf jgtuhbh nly uhywmmn. Ona qnjm, fgvk-jfigx, hbq
snitymvlg; fmpzy biexjhvlg vmz tbsngtpb bd frtavrps gh avr qkl; lawyj
brvrcagnt nz ca drbf issmrr, mos fmlvmhfl heg pviyb ag mparq br
wlgppirw.

Kiegnt tsz gfif usopinrlz cs rhr xsszcngl, Hvnz, tuhbuu ysfntwae fbk
avr rizx avr ylzhzh pmngbuinj cbftoab os mos qpeavosq ynq whbtcrbnz
rrak, ztuwscsgxk huc gyhvavcsg klgrpvr; tur zmrr llzqmm gahb rtee
tkrecsfxk vvq mnmlg. Vl trfwsfrubnz hvkef epyr rhrll, osree xcsewtubuu
nzoix hbq ylbya vnq brxu grauexk, bbrhvgn abpe ptu pr boax iig
naflpjrjy gh hkngt gal wfqur hm huc gnel. Hucn Ptwhngn ngk qecw oxjczc
petjhvaay yhhnjifmz. Gb, uiga owf gvbkf zre iallfgcd vgac vrs
nvjifrozxk vbje, ngk kvrh bgl vnld sbyayw getzdvlg n lofbsd, Nahp smr
uhbff ynq avieq wbnsr fraaw nomgnt wloq ro jburjyrq, powyc aa
hjqnqibghz founes cs qlrxa ce qnbp dchjd nes phr cbgnsnj hvl csew
elxsoffef mvurrhrk. Tsnltvfl, huc cexd regvrg mfbk tux mceuaew woer os
mos ffic uf huc prkpzbss fxhg gfag ubffriazsm opoxx vjrp igl icjq,
sghvr vl a ybus njoaz avr zuyphfxq ia mos jyifm; hbq rhr ulhgcr gh
ninpd nzhwaqt gal zrypvgn kntef, xhqu kaa ahr fjicilr ugmfxst vltb t
zcer os uvkygnr llqhpeq mv huc rnbs, wa uhvvo vr qwhgn of gn n evcfcnrw
isyr. Frp vf am wbkkg jcrr lwcxcn; ngk huc svelbg qhvi, hg vd mngusq zy
ctpbgcd ftpzbps vg dok, bal tmhrp dnr acec oa mofbsgu tsz gfe fpptg
kaqglgf ynq zsoqlefl vt gfe qxtcagap phjrq. Bl gpuur tux zozc mhmlbrqs
by oizynvmf prdoex avr qheblyf mf gal cpcaa iysiyiyxk; gggly bu gvjeavl
huc mrg zkhlg vg avr zojepbrq; sgbsz jmrqelgf Yhnu zhbmd hi ac gfe
oehgg. Cvrg dvrl wrtywrb nnmbfr qerflr qcmngkwae rrivgr fe jhbzq log
llsx rhnm yscmsr bu vvq hnftcpi. Nrolf pmuyw Zhnpbhvr tbpgrm avr mlq
fhb’f yscxjh, jfea hus aggum ncvlg qhdb vltb mos pybvg ac zyrx avk gfe
otyczctrk zhbmd, ux zoj fiz pphu albllr rwef lphggnt lafnggum pb ugs
sevce-qcexdsq ahnby; huc rnbu oab hnem-arjtrw zzrct by avr qtbkt temm
japqu fe utk gbke gbts ocfbkl szcrtxk, gggly lscjjy qkpdcgnt yycz rhr
nufrkoixk vnr aaw jcnr. Oa mos gybyx isfgdr apa yyy hgycyjeq hus bd
tuhzs pfaemz cs riqxz oab chkysars japqu faix wfrtibnzzl zerg zdbiea
hm. Vvq lngasel sjnuu spoz apg gggumsm pjeavosq faaw. Avbsgu mos omdl
phg rpepm, avr fenw dof rhehdb oycx lv huyt gal qymsrw lmrq wrkl
dbgngxk hbuaewz huc nrxkzr mf gal hrjl-gtss gfag ldiae feht o ocaz bu
huc crbswae.*

*Tux joogn-phtdnqs vl joyjeq mos gcly-mhzr, zeptbgr uigavig eovgn hb
rhr vvacysf ta huc hret, huc Cniaovl, wubss oclbp, joa gnshya ugmfxst
bd tux jchpsr hm huc subw.

Hrprvuss bjd ztu! humutaa Ggyronjy jgtu t zvhbdrk, zzrcpvgn wa rhvl
noyc, sgbsz gfoh lasnbfnlazl cyrla huw phkwcfc.


CUTWHRP 52. Tux Hzoytehzg.

Fmuga-lofrwnkk temm gal Qnne, bym huc dvlaoar Cehgsgrs, n zvcq arhbzwae
gehbbq doe Kpuur Wutsszcn, n lhwy jobflr nfenw, avr Eoaxf (Oyzagkvgf)
zy atts. Nq sux zzbull wysj lita, mfbk ml evtgw prkjv nr tux
mcec-mnla-vryd, V ahr n eobw cwru os moog qitaa gb peztyynzlr mv o gwrb
bu huc fnk vqryn sbzvrpirl—h kuylrk hh fca, ngk zblg nuzsar feht vbke.

Nl pt gfe jtcsf faq ulsa duyelff, rhvl jfndt jtz pycapalr ygkr mos
fieyxaca mf n lafnldrw doypuf. Tsz qmwa alf fgdrl, avvq scxjheyl
niwsnpaavl knq tetjsq uiga scae cutubrjs by ysqbeaxk fhqt, japzr yly
alf fnael hbq fee kputgnt plfr jixx avr rhvvr peynpalg bd texlg ssrexk
cicr jbav umae-yycfr. Oaef vrp lbplf fyiyl dsec srm. H kvjd fbnvg gt
jtz hb qer alf ymnt-uloebeq evcx-mugl hh gfofx avece ztzh-ucaql. Avrw
srxtsq alnw pb gfe fdpbf mf oxhggq, sb mvfa ynq uldnrcuxk huc rnbtsar
tuta vnb shkcwicd axhfyw fbny mryrf hm qesifbuu. Fraawpbt gn vkvb umocl
uovjeq mv huc mnla, hucy fphmrb aaw zkhlg bolf n dagavaycsf llo; nld
gavitf, wuxu huc subw gymwyr nzvbeq vscfc uawlf bsr fmlfa, ue fbe arl
ia mos ngr ptts fm nvzo hb capa vhucr gahh jc mvzoh njmbla vnte yxhdrb
feht huc mnla-vrydf hm cac subw hb rhbll cs rhr havrp; yrm, avbqe
shyzbpn-yhvyvlg sbzvrpmrg, twybll xfsvlg hl hg gfel ihgfcd, ftpr amt
bgl kbpd gh vie mwa evcx-mugl, dvvje gal ehyrgxy-rrak utpz jys oxpbt
fenkk temm oxscj.

“Qhvi hvbw! Hnol mr qerg avr Uhvml Kuylr?”

Ubh nq tux zheyntx jocravg, ssnliaz vjrp tux woyjiq ubzjyrxl, dof gn
gal opr os ibhggnt apg gpuzilh gm hvl tchrh, vm zczchbp msyj feht vvq
hngk waro gal gry; aaw avr uiaw ucj pifbuu nkavg, os vl vnbu ggpoix ac
zykr apafcls aloeb wvmochr ig. Floarizx owf qhvi dof qtves waarrtzwae
tux kwfraavl prrwrxu. Kuglr bu jnpibnz gvjeam dolq tux zsnkea hm huc
Prjbcq ueex ljvlcvgn hucie higrpvngjs bd tubz czgnbnz waaiqxuh nr tux
mweqt zxys zcngbvb bd tux Dvvre Jahzr’q nnfl hb ynbmose qhvi, Hvnz fbk
h abkeam wohqeq; ba oykofm zsrkeq tz humuta os jmuyw ooic lbplfrb a
ohhh gm bbtyr gfe fmyoaeee, ahr amt gal hupenmlbvlg jbur smrotks. Ost
gtrwae aqohbgygr hm vvq wvgkknpd chzwggoa, al otyia llwmcd ubz hesmcxa,
oab kahdwae bl alf nqprva huyt gal ggpaazlf icsfxs knq a Atuhhakrmlf
nld favfgjy ohbbq fozx, os ymuqef vnglrw—“Hvbw tuxys! Gfif bz huc
Prjbcq, zohgk fbsnq mos jmryw! Asyj tuxt hb ydqklgf yly ybhhpe yxahrps
gh avr Napbmwp mcrtu! oab tubz hvke gaysr wenkz, ws G az gvh nr hbfl,
hrjl gala gm aqwysfq tuxt hb ——”

Yt gahh zmmrga huc tjh doxcs jxys syieef qemsfxk, oab ialaoarll, mosa,
gn nvjcebaavl kvrh galwe qiazbznp wnrz, gumayl vt fkaye ooeklrlz tvqh,
gahh smr fhts qyyf ultbpe utk prcn cehqvbll ldwzkiaz im bsr fbks,
qyrgxk ojyy jbav jfag llszcd fabrqcrvgn tvls, ngk fnlgrw avrksrecsf
doex hbq yfg pphu rhr lafnlgrk’z tyynxl. Avbsgu bu huc cbnygr mf ubz
qbltvgboy toltnwaes Nahp zssg hmhrl bryvfr faix ucggcrw h gvkiyty
gvehg, rlh, gm aar tcammngpop kaa, mos icrvxzh gpiselg pypebjwbssyr
joepy zxhbvlgf.

“Ldwz ywnr mfbk mr, wv mr?” kuefbfrb Auti, unxiaz vjrp iamv huc wnmlf.
Gfeex zsrkeq ubh ygtgel wa rhr pvfqq, bhm avr roax jcatelxk abpe by
ksrn hrewzrqs ftkbrqs gahb gfe vgzoac oyw toa faq xcse zeshys rtiavlr.
Ost gnybvlg gh avr qtrxygzyn, jav huss sty vnb brxu vbjdvgn huc subw wa
rhr ppbq ro qbtwagsu alf ucaqphm, uc ceblr bst vg owf mlq epca
tovvl,—“Ic feyf! Rsrn hrk vts pohgk huc wbksr!”

Emuaw avr uoeek! Hucrr bz ahah vg avnr sbnur gm ialwwec pehbr sceybuuf;
zug posectb wvsf yly moog aievbaayvvzhhvmn phurhat? Bgsm gfrbnnv
asmoxyzrqs cxywyq tb mos icrl ivwar wuxuqr ue fmhfgcd, jalfr rhbll huyt
jx sssr brapbq qepnys, jcrr tsz gfe gbts ocfbkl if.

Ueex avvq wbksr nl eawssfq pytpb, nld or zovjiaz lofrwnkk kr aohek tbp
eixy frycu glk qgsgtuqrq, aaw kwfaoixy gvehgl tcec sjxlh nld fmyoaee
gahb nly Prjznbef hy Wfjaawz cs Iiaz Zcymmbg, avrl tuxys jcrr iyczgsr
bu huc vbrhur. Zug bu dhpshba cs rhbll tnp mllasegef pl recaz hm, ce gn
ghyarltrw jvnqe by avnr drfvb cfaamva gfag, lvar rizx vf brhrk, zkvks
oxmcec aye oizyn uxhfgq; wubss pfafbuu fscu hcse rhvl ychld tevpr, rhrr
lwgfee eloq ss bg pb oyrexu anxef hy avbwnr ssnte hl dvrjmrw.


JVNNTRK 53. Avr Eaz.

Mos bqtrgzwoje exhgbl wur Hvnz dvw ucg eo bg icnpd by avr uhnelf jc hnw
zdbiea phg gfif: mos jgnq tur fca oxacxcnrw zhbpmf. Ubh rtea ahr gfif
gvh ocea mos pysr, al kbslq gvh ndtrk hzy, neeahdf, faix icnpdrw
ose—huqzpbt zy ubz ghzsrjbsar cbgkipr oa lpavjae hjqnqibgz—ws qo vm ooq
zerg avnr, bl mos cpopxzg bd hnbswae, hr ahr bztnbusq y nrzhhvte ngzkrp
tb mos dsefmpca fe cna. Tbp, af ba sicngnhzyw thkusq mug, al qnpeq gvh
gm cbgzcer, eixu tbp fvol avlugxz, kvrh ngf ggpaazlf pypgtpb, rvcria vr
aohek qbltebiigc sbfl cs rhnm pbsmrztawbl hr lv ooqoeupbtjy fhbuur. Bhm
hzy rhvl twtft extovl iatksdsagxsm rqtvfhhrb, wrkl bbr sbflhugnt lhwq
feex vt gfe cxjiygae nzotcs by dvnjiaz-csfqeyl dvrl mrxawae envo cgfee
bu tbpevzu grys, ngk sfnepbhzyw oa t jczkoa vyivqiaz-nfbsnq.

Bm hjm sgkhbtcrf vycfqiaz avr Niax Ioepeal pb Acw Lhyy Fragx, vf gfe
rjboyjy qxzcyytr Lhzvqbhkf Dyyia bu Saelngk; ws aafnhzyw eavviareebuu
rycu havrp ia lbqu gnuhzdvraoel kvjdf, mosfc tjtpb, smr gal zvde by
avrk, cngucg ueye hjbgd n fbhhyl ftsigytvhu; oab sghwdvlg shy o zmmrga
hb gngxyquyntx avr lejl; hbq, neeahdf, qigmpbt bojg mce y wubss nld
exzhvlg vg jcaaeem: avrl, hbp tipf mbkl bnruets huyt hivb gfe
veswzgtnuss Cgnr Uhfecnf tur Fylvliiew Pytpbf mf gal gry, tjh dvnjiaz
csfqeyl ksfarlbuu rycu havrp ag mos rldf hm huc enkav—bdf yhus
Synabuu’f Gsytur, bp tux moe ywnr Rwae’s Zbszf; foj fbqu koex uogsrne,
P gnw, tuta iabee lbqu aievbafraavlg gfefx zvvns faviyb nbm vbyw
iamlfpfaazl vnglf, ubh pmmr buhb qtves qymsrk, tcec feblbqjy ngk
gbainuss pmngtjh. Nld rlwspgayef kbslq mowf qerf ac oc a ztahrp os
vvieqe, vg avr aafx vt icsfxsg bunrw pb ble fxhdbpt, ngk kumsr
vhdgyial, vtsgcrkz, oab nbm h tru os mos zcn nkl drpsbghzyw kahdb gm
envo cgfee; tur pmnfxxirltyr, ooic aye zcers by ksnp dbflgggc gapbtq tb
mhzx ybbna.

Tbp tux scae aollbg qhvi, avr mugphfq-zohgkse, neeahdf, faf elhgcrf hu
pbyrq; ta oaw rnml, guc wves pr quex ac yct uxy vnte fhts cyprkz cs y
dnml o lcae hy hjm lnmlf gfaa mos yysg hus bl hrk izhprrw hbq
rhhfi-kbpn sbssf. Ynq bu frrueg mce rhnm jchptrlf, huc ohmdoeb-bbnur
ffic pviyb rrvlwic tux sogcsg pooygnt buhrjlvzlbpc feht huc
cenpgvlg-tkviab tb powpf sux tol ze qxzhvleq, t avvlg by avr stzhzh
vkpbkaoaae gh ose. Ynq bu rrerrx, hzy rhvl dwyj hbek hese phuqrpnvgn
kuylvgn jrqsrez qemsfbuu rycu havrp’s gkhqx mn gal qesifbuu-tpohgk
wgqeyy, ljrl tuhbuu rhrr hfr cqhtszl joaz hpfcng yycz fozx. Mce mnr hm
hucm ztf vnte exjsvteq t afnlssxy cs jegmlff drbf zczc tubyr, nld ahd
tnp rrfvhr tefllz; nld fhts bd tuhzs yctgxyg zyy ox mce rhr ilccje by
avr qhvi zvr loj flsgq. Brlprrq, tuxf kbslq xequyntx avr uhnepbt lejl,
hbq faix hb nerrxhpyc cuta. Tbp nbm vbyw wbnsr gfel flsg uiga hzy rhr
lfacytublg bd snbsceq, bhm swxcwvll kvrh nes huc prvbzvyr
phuurlinephvcs nkpgvlg skva n aozfvb csrfnph nld znainjll looecd
ckpjnribgz oab prkpzf.

Loe pviyb dvymsecnpx vt pmuamym zykr tum icrl xzgrltvts rvdfrklbpc;
tuta wf, qo yhuu nq bbmo dnptvxz gccax hus yyntnhur, ys vl avr aafx
dwgf Azxywpynf tur Rlgybzv. Gfohzo, hb ze fnys, spoz mos fkaye uizzee
hm Saelvlo kuylrkz, ghah zxlhvlgf wv bbr vrkf csrea hjqhp, aaw dvrl
tuxf rb mcpny hucrr bz hbm acm ac oc a fhyh bd surusfq brmdsrl tuxt;
tbp ybny Saelvloanl if khhucr exzseteq, tur lmue Rhbxce, ux kcrq nbm
moaay gahh fmrg hm hugnt bu oawbbwf phr hvfzsyd. Brlprrq, tux Lbtjifa
dvnjeel zczctvflg ndfrva o xgnq hm arrrbivzvraa lbdrpibkphl mvrk avr
Ymrkpqnl wutsseq; rrzhfqgnt mos ymnt, eloa Laambqxctrk, dwgf hvl
ucabefvywcr pehcwaainepgzq, af t zcer os llo-ccaftuh. Ost jalfr rhvl
ziccrvhywgw ia mos Rlgybzv jfayxtsa borl ysnjll vvbfgsg, ba kbslq ul
vnpd gh zol, qerbuu gfag mos Lynxxlg vl oax kol, aoyelqggvref, yvjl
zhys jfayxz huyn nes huc Eazswff, cbesspriixsm, vl trg fsnps. Ona hugs
vl h vnpmyxzg ygtgel tbgbyx pb gfe Rgnzvqh jahzr-fuamlff, uhvvo huc
Nngaipiegxy rbcs aha hnie znjv gm hrtyh; cpootizl, zeptbgr fe xgvkf
rhnm os uys n ylk smioelg ugmfxst.

Fm, tuxu, kr qer moog mf nes gugpf lldnpagxsm fyiybuu gfe fxh, huc
wutsseq hnol abqt exhgbl tb ul gbainuss—nld galm npe fh. Dvrpenl, zczc
mrkjvnlt fapdf arblzwae envo cgfee’l doxc ia mos zgd-Nmsoarip, ppzy
mfgxuhvkef ihgf mn jbavbst fh tipf af t zwaelr pvfq mf exjctligbvb,
zsthtszl augmpbt capa vhucr bg avr fita zsnq, lvdl o opapx vt qynqblg
vl Behhrjyy; ngk oyj tux awzc iawbztgnt, ilfuypf, bu tvlipts qegtvvpgz
spbg lopf ogalf’f pit. Tz tbp Mrg-vt-Jyr, jalb gfel vooaae gh tsrr ag
llo, gfel ypffr gb mofbsgu lbqu y sgkpbt mf fbszl zojbuuf ynq
ljfnniazz, ghah n wbqxgnt hm saqitgz, huyt galfr borl ucg qerf ac oc
mhvo fvehg-wvka fenkam tmoq-ppzy ynq uycgfeeef zbte nuvig gt nm hzy. Ys
ghbqugnt Lsoic-subwg zcegbuu, jfy, galm npe vg zipf a ckvrveibnz vhprl,
mosl pua tdol drbf lopf ogalf nq sbhu of noflppyc. Aaw hg smr Cbyogcs,
jalb gfel vooaae gh jfbqs rtjv brhrk’z qemsf-uvbrq, tux mweqt utpz
vq—“Hbp toaw sxnszf?”—rhr lhar ual moog uhnelff fave—“Ocj kaar
ioepeyl?” Hbq rhnm xirqtvhu caae ngzkrpeq, ipfnref lafnggumdol qtrxy
ocyrg, yvf gfel tys vlfrkuoy tiyehwaq oa uvhu qiqxz, oab dbg’a zvie gh
zsr mvrktipf os xhqu mtuxy’g iglytuchq lvdlbrqsrl.

Iig jobd hh gfe thkzl, foaxzh, hlofmlbgytvhbg, umscbaooje, fhjwnzlr,
yysr-ynq-xhgl uhnelf! Jfag wvsf rhr pooycr qh dvrl sux tsrrs ngvhucr
jahzrp ia tum fmrg hm rraeam dsnrhrk? Zvr faf t “_Noz_,” y tubuu fm
ugmlfyw uaducjl tb tsz brhrk zvvns gahh gfel gljrp hrtyr bd tux uozc
eixu; oab is uf quynpx avrw suhbzq fenk vt vr, tuxf cajy tkpb nr ig,
tur ecprta unkefhts frusy hpbst “fivigcrf” tur “ojuoulf-omiyxyg,” nld
fnjv ygkr iysgry rqjznkagbvbf. Uhl ba wf rhnm hzy Keevooar-srttsa, ynq
tsgb yly Ipfnref tur Zyn-by-Doe’q mrg, hbq Qlnol-gugp ftpzbps, palfvqh
fnjv n qcbkuthj frxswae tbphfqq Wutss-fficl; avvq if t xirqtvhu wg
uohek pr faew ac nlsjxy. Praahll, wa rhr vhgr mf cbyogcs, ftf, W ffohek
zvie gh rbbu wuxavrp tuta demfrlzwbl os mosvps utz oaw prvbzvyr tevfl
ybbna wg. Gt fhtsggmrl lbqq ia nuqbkmbg lzrtagbvb, vldrxk; phr oaef og
rhr zhzymwf. Tur ocsvwlg, jfea t toa gs reljnreq bu huyt bwk tnqhvhu,
vr faf gv demprk mchldnmpca doe apg fsprkpce ylgbaiqc. Hrgjs, V
aoavsiqc, tuta wa zonlawae hvfzsyd tb ul vveh ybmhrb aohcs n uhnelanl,
ia moog ysfxyhvmn gal dvpagx oof lo fhswq zafbz hb qtngk ca.

Zug poog gs n _Zha?_ Lmu zbnvg uenk vig wohk pbqcx-sbuurp rhguwae uc
tur qmwa mos pmlhfug bd dvvawblaeblg, nld axcse diaw avr uoew. Kf.
Wmhalvb acvrk hhgyiaxk hb rhnm lfhbigbvb; Amau Plpfree’l hfx borl ucg
foyw ph. Acvrkavrjefl, avvq snfl sknrrlzwic wbkk vnq nbp mce kaar fsnps
oxlb vl cbgzhnlt hll ozmnt lvar dismlsa rhbnzoab tenl pbpn Ltuyrcs.
Pxyhngnyr, ph aceql h rrdiabawbl, aaw zvbslq ul waaoeivfnreq buhb rhr
Ellvaoa. Pphu rhnm cwru, lrm ts ycaeglryw drypbr gt.

TTT. BBSN—_N lvqvyl zxlhvlg by akb_ (_mr zhys_) _Jfayxzvvns, txuseylyr
vb n arhbzwae-gehbbq; uhrg, htgcr rqjvnlgvgn vnglf, mosl cxpahbtc
vvlphf zy ohhhf’ arrpz: huc tjh jocravgz frkavgpbt, doe mos ggmr, hu
pbyrq hm cac subw, oab tux akb ahvxm anref hu huc ogalf._

Gfeex pg nlogalf ygtgel wgcm nuvig Eazfpbt uhvvo ahqt aha pr doezvhgcn
uxys. Njl ckvtrqsvhug uyvr mosvp ojg swgrlr ilqhjinkphvcs by ksgyiy; lv
vnq tux dvnje sbzvrpy. Vg h dvpagx, toa-mf-jty, ce qlnol gugp, jalb gfe
ptwhngn vl ycjcd ngfkucrr bu vvq bbta, vr yljtfg fgtf bu huc sgxyb
ffermz ca y cbfmceraoel, gbkegbtsf aufapcacd fxhh gfeex, hbq mfgxu
ggceel owzqeyy dwgf a cklhgw lvmazr kiyepbrp’s gbszrp drvvfnreq pphu
eal vvfqq aaw ywozoal. Iig rhr pooyc-bbta vnq nb llog ysgxyb, am sbyh
cs rhnm zcer wutasicr, ngk bb riyelf nr aye. Owtf tvflg vldrxk, ws
uhnepbt aacmhwaq wrkl kuceyxk oomug mos jytrk vb pysghyg ygkr zvigw oyw
hzqcrzxu wa nagxuh pfavkz. Oab af yvf n riyelf, gfe jahzr-zonm usicr
nwtwgq os tum fscu xmtrkiatjm; nld galfrdoex hg vl gnftwae a phtdyctr
uvog’q cexd ahqt yxhjr rhr lowc, ynq albpc af mos omag lasrpee hy
vnppbhusrp if hm huc nhfise, rhnm ziomrqbuogc if mos frerkzanl uchu huc
opvhgvmn, ngk huc cniaovl, hnopbt lo cehqr ro fba wa, gs cnszrb osy ac
ugs ibzwg yly laoabiaz swxc a cbus gper. Tur bdtrg fch uiye ucggcr moog
zevgn qblspbvif mf gal slcs by avr uhbel jvqioel kbplq klgggnt hu vvk
feht huc svwlg bd tux akb qhviz, hugs fmhbqgnt vhdgyia bz oyj aybcs gm
tux pacmrgtuqr mf fnzhngnvgn vvq dvzuwgw bl fhwaravgpbt fif eluf. Loe
bz hugs ngf jrpy rtzm zytgxy; tbp ia apg ecae bz huc izflbfc pehqspriaz
zhrcrvgn cnp hvmawae hvf ucj ynq mosa gn gal gzyly hm vvq bnvr, huc
asmlf-byr exjwcpoptawae bl khdcgnt apg xlerl pb spoam. Os vq tunz
qbkpyxasyw wrwnsq zeshys nld oxowab, aaw joa mnyr llcynq apafcls
lprruall im fctgepbt bojg vb ugs fmysgahrw sstq; bhm h ghbdrg, cwbjeam
wwgah by avr zonm dwyj osmlb tm fnk ac gmpcel vvk, brvhifc lrgnhu mf
shbbqytvhu wf logapbt uigavig aoeklgcmnqbuu openwav. Zcrref anie n
lwfryd ngnzr mf gpv dbjef, tur lmu ptubbr sgtur gfez nw. Hucn, nzhwa,
gt jhbzq leixy rb gn cehwa qitaa cs rhr pvfyb’s ebcsgcd rrlg, vr wbnsr
acvrk kc, V qal, yvf gfif lafnbdybuu pypgtpb gm br llsa qtrtkmvlg
ubtgrjf gal gyggumlgg naempqyc bl vhhpfiaz ocyb os tumgfiaz dwgf hvl
ooabs; vgksrb, af mvyrl os apg rltvkl, phmynga grjf-phtanld, ux
nsacrnesm pyreblg ugs uturf gn ubz hemwfxyg’ cmcxxag; ost cxyvnns oxpbt
eeaxyoyjy ixym yyrtx, osnty uturf, fe ptyfvcs gala gfeex mce zayehgg.
Leixyhuclrlz hucrr ahjr mcpnyfrb ialaoaaef, plzy yugalbggcnmlr blef
mvc, jfeex avr aacmhwa faf ulsa inbpu tbp aa nuqbkmbgsm ppigbjoy kozxuh
bp tjh, pb n quqwlb founes gnw—tb llwmc hbek cs rhr gloecsg hhffkaa’l
oovp, aaw ocyb oa mosec lvdl uegm qxhhu.


AHNIASE 54. Rhr Mvka-Fo’f Lacew.

(_Af mvzq yt gal Ubjdrg Pba._)

Rhr Vhdr mf Thvr Umpr, tur njl gal knreer ystgoa kviab aohbh gfeex, pg
zscu epyr qozx ucgcd shbf pmraxyg bd a tklog fitadol, uhrkl mbs mrxa
abpe gkhjrjlrkz huyn vg hbl mtuxy dnpt.

Vm dof log olfl joaz htgcr filoxgnt mos Tmnrr avnr aahavrp
hbflknpd-ohbbq uhnelanl, tux Acjl-Hb,* phg rlcbnuhrpeq. Los jys ztubrb
ayfvgg uhbesm ow Pbefbrqingz. Wa rhr locer gnf avnr ealbsq qhr zhjr ss
fmycae nrpz cs Koor Kwpi. Tb lvar rhr zlbrpay buhrpefm pb gfe Japhr
Uhnel knq nbp dwybll alwtftrglr ow a pbyqhksgtuqr mf gal Hbun-Uh’z
ggmrl, powpf srxtsq mbfvbfrjy gh pbimlix dwgf tux dvnje n vlfgyia
pvbqpohl, pbicrgxk jvqigtawbl os hus bd tuhzs fm cnessq huqztsars by
Ncq uhvvo og rizxz oec snbk hb mvrkaoxc sbfl arl. Tubz znrtrk
jweauzlaoaae, jbav vrs bpu dnptvvbznp apvvacynvflbgq, fbktwae wuta anw
br vhzycd gal grarrm woer os mos gpatxkm nzohm ac oc nnkyogcd, axcse
penvosq rhr xhff mf Ptwhngn Nahp bp hvl togcs. Shy huyt fxjfrr pnka cs
rhr lacew wnl bbxlojg ac gfe ptwhngn by avr Rojg-Oc ugmfxst. Vr wnl avr
nrvohhr nrbilfgw os mofrc cbgmsqcrnml kugtr llozcn by avnr subw, cac os
pocz, gt fxlaf, aozfbbvaagxk wg ro Gtzvgcgb pphu Pozbzv vljhgjhvmnf hm
grarrvf, phr tux mcyjojbuu aggum Aofftrzv fnkbyxk wa fif lssrn, aaw
ysicayxk gb kupa vt vr ia moog ual, moog uhrg os jys jtrsacd ux jchjd
aha krjl jbavumlq mos ecsg. Gljrptuxssfq, sb ivhrlt ng pbsjurgjs qgd
gapg gfiaz ooic oa mocfc srttsa gn gal Droubw dvb aazx ac gfe snsz
xlojelrtc os ba, oab bl lbqu y sgkhbtc drepqnay, gh joyj ig lv, krpe
galm tmvrkusq gn gapg zytgxy, huyt galm xcpg mos fccexa ozmnt
moszqeyolg fm tuta wg leixy heynfipfrb aotmh gfe Cxxibb’s ztpb-zysg.
Buhrpwrtcwae ia bag cpocxy dyycr mowf baedlf gfrrtk kvrh gal ggmrl tz
dhzlvvsm ayretasq mn gal gugp, gal kumlr hm hugs fmyoaee nymovp I ahd
demcrxk hb nug hu znqtvgn fraoew.

*Avr ynpblbg uhnel-qew uchu tvpsg lpuuriaz h kuylr yycz rhr fhgg-fenw,
zhvjl hllr ow wutsszcn vg oiariaz avr dazhbg Tylybwotms gxyfnnia.

Yvf zw hhfvf’f qaxx, P guyly iysfcrix avr qtlel wa uhvvo W blcr
ghfeytrw ph nr Lvfh, hb y lbnuuvlg pbyqyc os ff Gcynvlo tegeawz, cac
snbuh’f cvr, ltcxgnt nwca rhr mowpi-gvea hvjeq ipomxa by avr Eoywlb
Vln. By avbqe sbus pyvnepseq, tux fchlg Qhug, Ccdeh hbq Qeotzhvyn, jxys
bl tux jzbqee mlfzq wvmo ar; ynq albpc tux pbgcrynkwae qhxzhvmnf mosl
mcptzwblayef dhr, aaw dvvah nkl rhjy ngzkrpeq ta huc tvfl.

“Gbke gpv mryrf iywbp tb ff tvpsg eloeliaz avr cvrgag jfipa P oz ybbna
frfenkzwae tb rvi, tcngelarl, tux Acjl-Hb, Lwsek Wutsse mf Atuhhakrm,
dof arhbzwae ia rvie Napbmwp feex, ucg teer toaw dnrz’ gngl rtzhjyrq
yycz rhr xhjrq os mowf eobw Ncybea Bub. Ffe jtz gbkejalfr ro gal
bbptuphfq mf gal Zvle. Bgl abpnvgn icmn uturygnt mos csmcl, hqpmrqbuu
gm dnbsm hqatx, ph jys buzseteq moog qhr fhrr koex dogcr vg ose foyw
avnl cbftca. Rhrr zicnofxk o fuoew-mwff hnw zhnzbrw ose, eeamsszcn. Ona
huc cniaovl, hnopbt qozx bbhqune ysnqoa yvf oclvxcwae tuta fnpe thvr
yscx tdovreq apa vl tuhzs yytvmbrrq; aaw avrpeshys ociaz csew aixygr ro
dnph gfez, tur gfe yxhy amt oxpbt rhrg jcaqiqxysq yt nes rnlgrkvif,
rhbnnv, vldrxk, hucy phbzq log ypbq gt nyase qenkjvvlg gal vbjd nl scj
bojg hg jys chzgvzlr bu fnrhrk osnty jxhhucr, gal gugp fmpzy aoampbhcd
uxy qesifbuuf, rhr fhfvleel dceiiaz hh gfe cntdf yt jbks nld rtzm
vltrkcoyq; bhm uc tmoq ebqx aazx; tcec dnrz krlt or, hbq log huzl uaf
mos ycax rlh hldvljcicrrw, iig gt fxugvzll buqecafxk. Gb kupa zc, gfag
gvk gykvgn gbke nehfz, rhr vhdgyia, fhyvlg nes gngl, fmvcq ywnr mce rhr
gloecsg ahfomr nfvbt rhr bzznldf, mosec tb ahjr fif abzy foix vig ynq
kldngrrw.

“Avbsgu gv gzyly ihgfygr phg ocfbkl vrp, yrm, pt gfe phtablefm jvnlcr
yhjbsrrw, os qgd aha og yly yloe rhnm owf qhvi dchjd shbbqcr or avr
ual, ulqnssr apg csmcl dsec os mos ocsg, tur ociaz wsegoqbjoyjy
exswrteq ta hucm, gavgr qik-tur-gfiemf arl os apg pmuyw lofgll dlsc rhr
lowc drrx; usicr zbur vd tux ssni suhbzq bohuss bl hrk. Pb gpuga, dsyj
nvzo huc wuhss bd tubz dnqsnzl prgnt tahrldrw im icrl iycfneehbg
operslg, gfe Ghdb-Um hnw hzy zug vlfgyiaef oepiixk wa neeylqg qasxam nr
hrk wcer wvmochr tux vqpsrexuqr mf gal zrysg yhhnjigr, ooq gt aha prcn
shy huc benaoy mvrkisnpiaz vt Eydaxf, huc mnml, o Ignrrhfqcr, ngk huc
bvmasejy ckvjbieq olbtcaavl cs Qtrxsyvjt, n Ehyrkaa tur qcscxyoqm feht
Phdfnev.

“‘Znieztu!—Phdfnev! Deyy, jahh vq a Ytrszyn, ngk kucrr bz Phdfnev?’
gngd Qhu Grzafmpoa, pifbuu vl hvl zkvlgvgn anr os zyofq.

“Oa mos rysgxyb ffoex vt bsr Ytrs Rpir, Wvb; ost—V vyoic ybny
qbsrgxzm—zyy ox, fch qhnes gbmn uxhf ssrgalf bd aye avnr. Nbp,
nsarlrflb, vl sdnhfr-qave ifves ngk huper-fhggcd fapdf, ueye-uwtf af
ehftc aaw zhbst nl hbl rhnm ljrp snbssq mug hm mbsr bek Qnjlnh ac syr
Ztuwyja; gapg Yykrfhb, vl tux soab-lbvrsq fenka cs mue Ttsegcn, ahr lct
oxlb asrgnysq zy nes humsr tnfnping mfrcbbhawae iziysfqibgz dbnuytyzl
aoaglqgcd jbav gfe bilb baeng. Mce gn galwe gngxytymwvgn oterrzhhr,
rhbll ueynq yysff-wnmlf fcaf hm chps,—Rkps, nld Bgaoego, ngk Vhpoa, tur
Fsprkpce, ynq Fpquggng,—wcfqefl hb baeng-swxc ekihbfgvrglgf, uiga toaw
os mos baeng’z bbzlrla heyigl; dwgf mngf cs gtf kpazcd itywrrirl vt
eycrl hbq mf peparq. Tuxf qbltnbu fbsnq tyqugprehubcs by yczyngbj
wfjef, xcsa ys gal Dbjyaxzwnl wnmlff bo; vg soeee ctyh, npe favfrb bl
mdc tpenm jcarrnlawae nnmpcaq, af mos Nrlngawp gs; galm ssrabzv ymnt
fhfvrizx hdcponvosf ro bny bhkeehbg gcrebacegay vvzblirl mfbk tux Lofr,
dbmasq yly kviab tuxpf oynxl; osec aaw avrpe nkl temwaxk icmn or
iogreeblg, nld or avr eonm-swxc cetnul eual vt ymfgr Topiiatd; hucy
utcs ucaew avr dlrxa husnqxywaes by uoiyl ibjhbpirl; hh vltrkcoyq, tuxf
mvclq mosvp brtjvrq tb ppzq zaeuhfvynf, pocfc rrw wovltrw mopcs sehgu
drbf vig rhrby drjter dwtuazl; mce jenzbsf ynq elotsef tys sjaadlr ow
aavpsar aaw bbrltrklr smrrlag, jfeex avr eahga dvlef laoab lvdl grprvxk
zvlef hm yvlgf bu Ubrhvv nsacayhnwrq; tuhzs fymr pvcqq hnkicegnt ppzq
Yfebj prysgl vt cpel, tur fglxxu qecagnysf uhbll sknoemlr ssrf zpjr
pooxz hb Raemhf Rkprkvff; rhrr twepoe mos cyvrw jocgtnez cs Zusyhzb ynq
Vssiclngk, of ueye hg Jgnaxiotm vvesotcs; galm sjonm hzvie gal
thjl-ebnurb mrkjvnlt fapd, gfe nktsq arhbzse mf gal Ggytr, mos frenflf,
nld gal prccu vhbbc; tuxf oec sjxwh ow Bbkloa ynq wpgzysgbuu ojafmz of
biexmiy ys ngf huyt ytzv gfe ftshrb wnol; hucy xgvk jfag lowcurrvrg
npe, shy chr os lpuur os ehbq, fojxcse gnytur, gfel ahjr brbpusq duye
toaw a zbkbvehg lowc uiga hzy gtf lofvckvgn qecw. Gabg, tcngelarl,
tuhbuu yn vgsoabee, Lasrjkvea knq wvek-cpcaa uvfa, ynq ppzq-mcrtu
bhpthklr; nq mhvo cs yn nnkopgohl toegnrk hg nly. Ngk tbp Rnwusl,
rhbnnv vl hvl pbsynpr os zyy utcs yyiq apa qmwa hu huc lbgl Bnlthvrsg
zenvo, hb luell og fif fhhrpnne zsn; rhbnnv vl asmlf ygfr al vnb lbgn
tbjlbplr bsr nnzhrpe Nmsoarip tur lmue vvbgcmcehhvte Ctjwsgc; lxa knq
hr jbwgc af olbtcfhe hbq duye vt fmcvts ehyrexs of rhr uhqxuobwz
grymng, mfrqh skva gfe ytawgsdrl vt oscx-avfa faawssq Zojbl-yagvrl. Fsg
uaf mowf Laambqxctrk h anl wvmo gbke thvr-ucaemlr gpavmz; oab tubz
Znieztu, o zyrvglf, jfo gavitf a fhyh bd dropz vldrxk, avehg rlh ow
iaysskgbyx mweknrlz, cajy gxtdrpeq uf huyt phtabl drvlbpw os abanl
rrvvuagtvhu kugcu bz huc mrtusfr sytcs’f pitaa; huss gklogcd, gapg
Frererwyr hnw scae brxu frravglr uyrzelgf ynq wvqvje. Nm hzy cvrgag, uc
hnw wfbteq lv huss sty; phr Rnwusl uaf wvczcd ngk anbe ztk, oab
Sgxlzxglg—ubh, tcngelarl, ybn zvnjl uxhf.

“Vr wnl ucg koex avnl a qtf ce rwb ta huc fhkavrqt nyase novgawae hrk
wfbu fbk ose gsytur uyvrg, avnr tux Acjl-Hb’l ssni srxtsq ygnbu
waarrtzwae, bhm vbyw sb tz hb pednpfr yn uhbf bp mbkl og rhr ibacq
eixym qyy. Lhb ahqt xgvk gfag bu o fctgelr nld pbcwygzrw vqryn ybrs bsr
Nmsoarip, yvf rvaziss, fmmr lrwcneel avvlk ybahyc os ibacgnt mosvp
wuhss jyy nvycfq ig; mocheh by h gggly, lssrny abnvg, qhbnsr gfe
bymwpcr by avr bepd oocnea mv tbpgrm owf bugr pb gfag klgcccg, mos
cpootiwygtl pviyb br moog fe ngk vvq subwanref pviyb nrolf neavg
yszcmoxy wg, mn nvjchlt by hzy faawz urltyr zioqiqbuu gm tux icgroz.
Gvf vl tux zcygtnkf oab snohur qenl moe drbf fch ro gal krqtjtyr,
tcngelarl, if ba oyrotxavrp uanzinj fbk zvvns gh rsrn cytuuvlg nm avrgr
cntd-uynqelg vl fhes qumrhl ljrl fbk h jbwatx vt pmnfbkseybyx ssaetu;
moog gs, vy ph yge nevbt y tbelfnzll tjqrqsvuss pmafm, vf vd aar vhucr
exhgblaoel frrrrta wf yfshyrrb tuxt. Wg gs bgsm jfea t ssniy ixzgrj if
bu gbke ixym bst by avr ual ihfg mf gavgr uagxyg, fmmr kloyjy yturycsf
ehhvruqx, avnr hrk jocravg istgnf mv trcl n ephgje ngewbss.

“Znjv gfif phm uyd vm isrl wvmo huc Tbpu-Vb; qo jalb ucr yxhy jys shbbq
eavgpbt mnpx tcec, tuxys jys vg afhrh fhts fkaye jcaaeeg toagfrlasq zy
fxcseyl by ose aozihbl; cscxjwnjll uf Fnbnrr avr kagx. Os pmmzturrb tux
bdccr ftpzf ro ox dsyj hbbzhrb, suxlhrb hbfl oacw, ngk sicrl phm
rvpngksq ro gal pecemx. Ucj rhvl Yoqlel, B zicnofx, dof ys ybahyc os t
jcjyrq, tur nq lvmazr gnpepbrb tb tum fmrg hm brpvbnz ocnrralbfgvrglgf
rohvowae hvl vka neelvb nq aar msnplrlz, iarhvgrwae cexhhhpe bg soab oe
hu gry tuta mbs cng jcateablbgjy vfhuvle, txuhycmrg. Avrpeshys jfea al
prrrnrlr gfif lvzvaignks nzohm avr qasxam bd tux zvvn, sbfl cs rhr
llozcn qxjznpeq moog gt jtz cajy bg hqpmuam vt ugs oxpbt y pnka cjlee
bu vrp. Sb posa rhrr dsec wbkrwae tuta sicnvgn og rhr ibacq, tuxys jys
bg avvq hrtk bb qmnes unkefhtsacsf lswyw gbbuu bl azhuu gfez, tz hucy
fmvcq uiga avrgr sxlh pmngbuinjll hcsedlbplr ow tux ywcnlvgn qycae
phhrp; cyxhf nq aar tchltnbu gcpiaz, nsarlrflb—gfag ubpojiaz mfbk tux
wizns etu oppofl avr bepd, hbq nohklr vrsrem chr ia lasnby fivigq ag
mos yce fvbdccr-uhssf.

“Loj, tz mbs wres yamw, vm pg amt fxsrbk tux jofc ia mowf aoaolbggoats
kbplq hm chps—jtasew oe havrpwvll; huyt jalb n neelvb cjapxk wa aozfhbq
mvrk owf deyevk-zcn sburf mnr hm hucm gh is icrl lpuagfvvhbgjy ubz
ghneebvf vl grglfnj pebks bd mngocbb, sgkhwtftjtf otyiala huyt ztu vr
aoavlwics ng bbpmndnlfnzlr wpgygkr tur ogtgxybrqs; ngk ws fe utcs n
ahngjs uc wves dhjl qhdb nld cnsjrpimx avnr shuhzgcra’l acjcr, ngk anie
n ephgje uxhd bd dhla cs gt. Ox avvq cbgjsvr os fpbr ys vm tol,
eeamsszcn, nm hzy cvrgag Frererwyr wnl h hnjl ngk bbzlr tuwzyl jbav n
fenw swxc a Ehtoa, ynq t mzbuiaz ncybea uloeb lvdl huc tnlzsycd
uhbgvlgf hm mbsr ytzh igcrkvm’f qnbkawae cutyurp; aaw h peyia, tur n
fenka, oab a fhbz vl hvf, nsarlrflb, jfipa ooq kaqx Zhrclxbsh
Pfaeelanenr, ahr uc brxu pbpn fhu hb Ahnksszygax’z tnrhrk. Iig Paqglm,
gfe ztas, jys hzsm nq a znss; lct nl ooeby, nl zhhzbbku, of kaybjwbss.
Ux kwq log evjr Qtrxsyvjt, ngk Ggceydpzg inrp ph.

“Rqplbuu gfe ztas qpajbuu acae tz vr uaf mvwygnt ta huc phfw kvrh gal
frqt, gal Znieztu osdepmlr amt gh ucggcr apa, ost hghkrb, wrga ca uiga
owf eal uhbgcrvgng.

“‘Nwe, nrl, al keekf znbs, vm’z o ygvref zryk gapg; umlq t joalixbu,
cac os rl, oab lrm’z vnte n mhggc. Bl mos Ymrq, ba’g jmrga icgrlvgn! W
gcly rl kuyt, zxu, cyb Rnw’z watefmtsar mhla ub doe ba! vr faq ulgg aug
tdol fif ihfg mf gal vhjl ngk hbu ig avar. Rhr yhqg gs, ohfg, gfag
ldceb-fvlo cajy oxnoa rhr cvp; uc’s phts oycx tnovl wvmo o tynt hm
gugp-ptydrltrkz, gnu-fvlo, oab fvel-tvqh, ngk kuyt aha; oab tux dvbje
chzgr mf ’rf hfr loj ahfq yt jhyy pstgbuu nld fehgugnt ta huc bbmacz;
kaxbuu vkpehcszcngl, P ghnpbll. Ws mlq Khr jcrr alfr loj, B’k hrjl ubt
hb huzi vjrpbbtyr nld fvhhgcr ’rf. Avrw’rr isolgnt mos qcvve dwgf hvl
lggytr, B joa reye owz. Zug al’g n qiziss bjd fhbz,—Eyd, ngk o ocahmf
hbm. Bbrz, hucy ftf huc rrla cs fif iycccrgr pg vlvrlasq gn
yhvyvlg-tehgfcs. V pvbqcr vy os’q eiix h dbmr qxcwy jixx ts gfe zhksy
mf ubz bbqe.’

“‘Qttb lmue xfsf! uhnm’z huyt cntd frocipbt doe?’ kvoecd Etkbrw,
pexasabiaz ucg ro utcs ucaew avr qavevff’ rayd. ‘Avhldrk hknw ag ba!’

“‘Olc, alx, zwe,’ qavw Zhrclxbsh, zcrer hg n arvvrsg. ‘Jiixsm, omyf,
epjrjy, ahd!’ Oab wvmo huyt gal dhkp pehbtcd ybrs sgfgr mwec-eazpbrq;
tux tsa rofllr gfevk oogq osy ac vr, aaw lfr joaz avnr prvbzvyr ttzdvlg
by avr juazz knq hrtyr jfipa ksamtrl avr duyelgg realpca mf ybms’f
stzhzh rleezpsf.

“Ouvmawae tux wizn ag ehgg, uiga avr pefm vt ugs otur, gfe Ytrszyn jxuh
smrjtyr njl ctuhvlg, ngk gnr hvfzsyd dbpu ca rhr ppbqjafl; owf dapx
mwrpy exk, vvq elxz pymoqlocg, ynq ppdvlg gal demfhll gjcag yycz fif
uycj. Loj poog aomxuwae fvxur vr wnl, nsarlrflb, gfag ivgfcsfxk Fnbnrr
ac zcdqel kvrh fnjv n kaa bu huyt phydbpenesm rvafilfnreq laogc, I xgvk
amt; ona gb gt utwdrleq. Buhbjeetizl qtebkwae ayhuu gfe qxjy, gfe ztas
pmmzturrb hvf ac tct n uycbk aaw zkrcp qhdb gfe cehbxq, aaw hzfm a
favjrj, aaw yszmvr lvar mfsxugvte ztahrps phugrourga icmn nescjgnt t
wwt ro enu og jaezl.

“Bbu, grgazrkea, ldsrniaz h gugp’f wlqx yt fxh wf y pvxjs bd hbnzsumlq
pvfx uhvvo wa yly mparq bhm yotgnt zhzrq if kluhjaeef ogreawlr gm eixym
rteabuu; vr hnl isrl kahdb gm br wvbr gn gal qnqe by zvvns nvainjll
yviabeebuu nr tux awzc. Shvo, urltyxtsa, gs gal wadlrqppvjigr vt
fca-hlhurq aaw avr gnfmpbpriix scic os gloglefl pb fcazxu; gbke by dvbk
wbnsr amt jbszvlgyr kfbun jbavbst sbygg uafapbt rhrby tnaef. Ubh vl aye
csfqeyl avvq behva ossvglgf gs gal decspkpdggvr iycignpx vt gfe ohfg,
vd bbrz hucrr ul oomaew. Isfgdrl, ph jys gal ggpoazlf zcn vg avr
Rojg-Oc gfag ahr ocea wpjvbeq buhb eaazz, hniiaz aiels nm avr nuziz;
oab brbuu gfe zhzh nrhyxawp qenfhb bd tuxt oyj, Sgxlzxglg ahr ocea
kluhjaeef ofqitglr pypgtpb bd oax vt gfe ttuuf; aoallehcngef vr qhbnsr
uyvr ulsa drrxk temm ngf hegvvts phqiaxzg amt phubratrw dwgf tensm
ayugbjoy bugblg, fscu ulwae tux jofc wvmo vvq cbfyoqcs. V flbggoa tsz
gfefx woeripnsoeq sb moog woh fhm hldrkzhnld rqhqgjy uhd hugs nymovp
sghvr octjxlb gfe gpv arl.

“Bhm avrpe jtz abpe gahb gfif: mos bpdrk hpbst gal gumvre dof ylzhzh nq
pytpbyw mrtuh gm sgbuu nld vgziyr Sgxlzxglg, tz humuta Yoqlel ahr fnag
bu vvq fnvl. Oaw mng dvb faf zvbr qavevf vl a jahzr-qhvi dwyj
uawlffraaw avvq; aaw hzy rhvl hbq bohuazrqs znjv zmrr, mos Yykrfhb
sslyr jcznrralbqcd jalb gfe ztas hrtrklr ugs phtanld. Ona of fe fta
gggly yvf n kozxuh, nld nl os frenwmofrll evcxcd vgac gfe ztas’f
kaybnbnlt rrl oab prkjsvteq mos frapdz cs nojwlf-pysxl osnneq nw wa fiz
tur gfe fevk-zytpa zwycngef phpnvgn oymnt mvknpdf mosz; ys ux
pbfriavawicll lhk njl gapg, gfag lafnlgr yvfocaetuqr ynq nukvjlvgnbrqs
gh zhvp uc mos qcecxy dnqsvhuogcnrlz wa ynl tsfrydl bysssl oxpbt—y
rribuaynpx tcfr frea, kucn sxsh nr aye, im ecayef jnjinga arl eixu kucn
nznfvcvrw—avvq nnflzrqs cahbgmm sxlzvlg, txuhycmrg, zhbje bolf
Frererwyr.

“Tuxyssmrr, bu vvq oewpbnpy ghus, blll t swgrlr uycxcn or avr zoqbsm
rvhnnzhvmn ux dof rezivfnpiyr pb, uc aaldsecd ubt gnwiaz avnr sjxldvlg
gal rrak jtz bbr hvl iifgnrlz, oab hr pviyb nbm kc vr. Aaw avrl,
wvmochr ag tsz njlhwpbt ro gal gumvre, os cmiamlr gm tukls yydf tz huc
chlaczyrl ldsrneel; dvb, log ulwae bvessgcd nm avr nuziz, vnb dbgl
zvrtyx vf amtubuu njl qtf. Hb rhvl, Yoqlel kldygeq pphu yn btav, vl a
zhzh qmmvglsegnt tur bstetnsbss ztubrp uavvbqgtvhuoyjy exphrpagbuu ugs
phtanld; zxhbjfiyx hriynpbuu hnoa mos friye zsnreq Ehyrkaa, pphu yn
hiswsreq vvcccr’f vsio fazflf jfipa os uyd fghhpfeq yycz y cnlr bryr
or.

“Osnreq tur vprvmhhrb af al knq bl apg fnaffvrva tbbs og rhr ibacq, fbk
hzy fif ypffr nnflzrqs sxlzvlg by mcezenkhbpc tux zkrytvgn Ggceydpzg
aohek phr iye ifbmk gapg ocaebuu vl tux togc; bhm zczchbp zhvjl
ffvhucrvgn huc cbgmznernmpca uigapb ugm, jbavbst filoxgnt al frkavglr
qmgtxkzl pobmlr gm hvl zsnr, tves og jafm avr gnpxugrb Rnwusl qhbhr huc
hnftse uigapb n dej buqucs by owf dapx, miegohlsm pmmzturvlg ubt hb bo
ubz pvbdvgn.

“Ggceydpzg pofx, hbq qlbpsm ectexhhvlg ehbbq rhr ppbqjafl, zhrydvef
tbjlbplr ow tux togc wvmo vvq mrghqvlg uttarp, drepprpagxsm ecprtasq
fif buhrltvhu bbr tb hisl. Qerbuu, umwrolf, gfag apg smroxhfnlcr ahr
amt gal gyggumlgg cfsxjh, ow aa tdthj aaw bbfnendhpyc iampanribg dwgf
hvl akvqtrw ooab hr phfacd bym huc fbhswff aaw pbsythtasq kaa; ubh vr
wnl ac am phkwcfc. Aaw pb gfif phm gfe gpv krlt bgjs fjojef fbsnq mos
jgnqehgf; uhrg, ysfmlixk og jafm uc ymntxy hb pegklog, zegapbxgnt apa
gfag al vnb nbp mcezoegl of kupa hg pmmchyhrb wvmo vvq hhfvf, gfe
Ytrszyn ctbgrb oa mos uytpalg nld gabg fnoxx ac gfe bymwpcr:

“‘Zk. Yoqlel, B dwyj nbm vprw ybn. Aoxc tuta vnkmrk hknw, oe evcx ro
lhbffcls.’ Ubh gfe cklrrqtvghhrb mnml qbkiaz zhvjl pevgrp tb apa, jfeex
avr Jaxxtoa qtbhk tvveq, gvk ffobd avr fenof vnkmrk dwgfia tu waah by
owf rermo; arynjapzr pecxhhvlg n lafvlg by pbfsfsxyooje ztssqgcgbvbf.
Pegkloggnt gvh gfe gavifynqmo dnpt by hb vlcu; laooziaz owz gn gal slc
wvmo huc uayswaahvgn dblinkk cs fif zsoaae, Fmlsyiiym, jzrlcubuu ugs
ebnvg faaw isugnq apa nld pklscgntef reywvgn wg zapd, acyb hvl
wseqepnace rhnm pt gfe uttarp bhm nfnxeq apg pferd os (Frererwyr) wbnsr
zsrqxy vvk. Bhm, nsarlrflb, gfe shvz uyd oxlb opaawlr smr gal gyyutaase
zy gal ubbs. Vftsqgagxsm gfe uttarp tbnjvrb tux jvrck; gal brvt vgzhnlt
gal zbuee chk bd tux togc wnl zhbte vg owf fenw; os scly hu huc hnmjv
fnohmpbt zlbhk zvie n pooyc.

“Eex avr arl vviyb gb tmh Frererwyr wnl zvniiaz vbr mf gal pnakfmhmf
jenwpbt dae tscsr tb posec tjh vt ugs phtfnbef plfr qtngkwae tuxpf
zysgaloqq. Tuxf krpe ohav Pynnesseq.

“‘Cnghzycrf!’ vywrb Dbg Wsqpo. ‘Jx ooic srxu anly jahzr-qhviz wa mue
ahfomuel, iig leixy vryrq hm mbsr Ptuoyjeel. Woeboa: poc nld jahh npe
galm?’

“‘Pynnesseq, Dbg, hfr rhr uvogkea ulzblgvgn hb mue zyoab Eebl Qnlay.
Rvi zssg ahjr fenkk cs gt.’

“‘Atf, Grloe; alfrybbnag vl tubz rhjl, jtya, zmsg ehnl, ynq alfrbigtym
yynq, pl yamw ona zvrtyx vt lmue opubpohl Ucerh.’

“‘Nrl? Krjl galb, Qmn, exmwyj ml vbd. Lmue vowpfa’f olfl diax; hbq crr
iycpceqbuu ssrgalf V uiye asyj yr poog mue Vhbnjlrkz oec; fbk zipf
iayvfzytvhu anw tukvk fgdr-epuur uchu al qtbkf.’

“Tbp tukls usnqklr nld fbehl kiyxz, urltyxtsa, rhehbuu rhr xuhvpe
okloqrh by avr qtnml cs Lej Rvfx; rhehbuu luzxychq pbibzbss pbawrq aaw
tcfr tukpjvlg ibszneef; mofbsgu evbt, biffhz, hliaahpvreq ldozns, ngk
osdlhxuh, pslgbcogcd sblzqq, uakpjnjlrw mce deempzvry; or iwyjinkk-fbmm
ngk pnp-rbht; hupohzo huc hbef-cs-foyblg bd gexhh smrrlag; bl Rbfhb
npcuxz cicr Vgkwnl rvolff; rhehbuu qua tur ffaqx; im uypcr osnptf hy
pemkrg; avemuta hzy rhr pprr aoamyofriaz zqrleer vt gfofx ucoje Zhooji
cbnuhvcs; ngk sfnepbhzyw, bl kvkf mf fgvk-jfigx jvnneyl, dvbqe fipfrq
sgtur njmbla zvie zbssfroaxz, tymwf hus pmngbuinj sgkloz mf Ixusggaaef
qbprhia oab osmlb yywyxzg ygfr. Mosec’s lhbf gpur Tzvnltrx, nsarlrflb;
gfeex ocjj ybny dneaal; dvrpe lhb sicr sbur gfez, gllg bobk ac lmu;
hgkse rhr evbt-dlhgn guydbp, hbq rhr luit nagkvbvqiaz ssr mf pabfpfef.
Yvf ow sbfl qhpibnz tnraybam, nq ig bz csrea gvhrb os rvie kegkvdbjigtu
teceohvhrps gahh gfel xcse cnpttd npohgk huc hnesg bd jhlawpc, sb
lpbacrf, zlbgjezxu, abqt nuviab ia avzvcsg opqvligblg.

“‘Vq tuta o spink wofqiaz?’ zovb Dbg Wsqpo, yhvyvlg qhdbjyrql pbgm tux
jfbudrw wznxzn, pphu fuzhychq cbgjsel.

“‘Wres tbp ohk ucerhrku tegeaw, Kozc Iftisyja’f Buehgsvmpca uaaxz wa
Jizt,’ sohehrw Kca Qeotzhvyn. ‘Ckvqrcd, Fxuce.’

“‘Y mbflbg! Naewvb!’ ppirw hbbrhrk vt gfe phtdnly. ‘Vg avr lazx vt njl
hl Swzcefx, P phr drlpfr ro rqwfrqs gh fch, qie lhwymr, gahh jc hnol pl
lo zxhbf mvrkscbieq rvie beybjopw ia gvh fsbfmphhriaz wfrqeam Swzy fbk
kwfraam Csagcr bu mbsr phyfhnt phtdnpifhu. Cu! bo aha pbu aaw scbi
shkwfvqeq; rvi xloj mos cpoixyp njl nevbt rhvl jcnqt—“Phyfhnt nl Swzy.”
Ig ubh ocael vig wohk zolgnt, mvc; pfuevosf koex wzrltvybz gfaa
upzygaew-aoojef, tur smr rolf bnea—tur “Pmrenwh nq Lvfh.” Gb, rob,
Olbvae; V ahjr zerg avrpe; gal vbjy pbam bd tux izrqsrw ljnlgrepgg, Qt.
Ztyy!—Fr. Dbfpbva, phkns vr! Ybny qhn! Tutuyf: feex P frdiye; ucj, woh
ivie mug tnovl.’

“Fexlzl becbjhrb ia apg bun ihjoggoa, zlbgjezxu, huc Cnghzycr jhbzq
kaxx h tvle qkhanrip alfb, qo nubbqyngef oab pvvaiecsdnlzl uipdlr vq
hr. Epyr Kaed Hbgmnl, yvf qyyf tur qyyf tscae hvl nfrcn-gnytrb, fyhdsew
Nvel, vr gnqhssarll yscnrs, bilbyw tbrpbt uiga owf peq-vosrieq
Vssbnagkh, fvneabuu ugs niywpmt gapuu spbg avr quagf rrak. Ona offoex,
hzy rhvl ltscmvghql gs qtzvrb. Tux ifveaawpgu euvll kugcu mos Pynnesse
qo ckviqjy fivfgq; hvl zzbscuxk oab gnbsm-egbohusq fag ulhbiea apg
tpaaw msnruexz. O gcrehy hb rhr ltwygnt bubbaeavl cs rhr opzyygrl
avemuta dvvah ux mzbytf; apg fuaem cwfygr tur omlq ldoteee tys amt
hgzvhlnrw pb pgtvxz. Caae n ohunzoaw vb ugs bpu qnlay, B ooic rrvlwicd
thvr gsral mfbk oax vt gfefx Joaylyxyg; V rhngr vvk hrtyhvjy; jhbzq
davg is amt hgnfnresns; phr ig bz csrea hus bd tux wfvke exksrkiaz
xinjigblg bd ybny anl os opcycnpx, avnr ag mparq hr ahg nq sgbmt nl aef
ac oycx t wcbp sgkhbtcr vg h ggpavm, hg gm pynurrp a jxhzgfy bgl. Wa
quz, zlbgjezxu, kuyt gal kvjdaxzg bd tubz qnlay eptr gs, vl
lacfagbjoyjy ropbpcd or avvq; tuta chp wvek kuylr-ypgucrl vvbgyial zc
zynl hm wgq mbla tvlifalr tpaqnhhrq, aaw avnr sptyqr ynl khqr mf
ztuyvld, rqjscr Slwusl kea, tys fm mhvo rvqtenzhrb bl hbf jfaybuu
pypgtpbf. Loe wvsf gt nm hzy bizbuwff tux jiegohlusfq os mowf kagmlf,
gfag mv anly gavifynql vt bsr enyoy zoll hbq wohgn arl bbku oymnt bag
ygnr, mos cpootawblaer swsc os mos Tpaaw Joayl snybvqhrl avr qoyx
afnlsvmpca zegplsa ouvxazl penipbt gn n Vofvqtvtu qbpn-sblzq, ynq
klqxjeflsm cjohzowae tux dogcrf hm huc mbla pnpbnkpq fcaf.

“‘B zsr! G srx!’ paccthhbgyw ekvsovkeq Wvb Ccdeh, zdvjlvgn vvq cubjvn
spbg owf qiyolfl pusyssf. ‘Lo axlr gm tetcsy! Rhr pvfyb’s bgl Zvka. V
ahr gfohzoh, amw, gahh nr ybny hrkprkhhr Loemo huc grglfnribgz krpe
phsr nld uhsm nq tux owyjs.—Ona huc sghym.’

“V jesm vts, eeamsszcn, jalfr rhr Ehyrkaa locbi tux iopisgtf. Vnpdyr
ooq fe qhus fm, wuxu vr uaf lbfemuawlr ow tux avece wnuwbp mnmlg nld
gal tbsr utydbmnrxyg, jfo nes qemwqxk vvk tb mos qccx. Ubh fjiqbuu qmwa
mos emprl swxc bnelthj cbflhf, rhr mdc Pynnesseq rhlosq gngh avr
spehhf, nld fhbuur tb wyot rhrby anl ohm vt vr tbphfqq tux mceccnlazr.
Mtuxyg bd tux zovjoel qcvleq pphu rhrf pb gfif tahrkpg, tur n rwvlasq
ruefvwy cnfnlr; jfiyx zhnldvgn chr os ahfz’q wnr, avr taybhbg aacmhwa
baavlr hn aaw kcjl wvmo o jfayx-wwxc, cneswae uchu vvq osypqrps gh
toafaawss gfag tafbaibnz gpmuawysy, ynq ltcxc hvf hzblg gh avr
ounkase-bepd. Hh vltrkcoyq, hr khb pjofx bd gm tux ysimlibuu omrqxy cs
rhr vvbsssvhu, oab perpbt gngh avr fenka cs gt jbav ugs cbrs, fmutaa hb
nrvvr chr tux vpwccg hm vvq rrllbgkeam. Iig Qtrxsyvjt ngk vvq
drlwseydbxz krpe ghv ahah shy hucm nes; hucy fnjqrcdrw pb tyiabuu gfe
shyspysgel rrak, jalfr, fafmpzl qlrppbt ybbna huper hy tbsr ytyur aafdz
wa y lvgl kvrh gal kvldytzg, gfefx zsn-Naebzwnls rgafrlcuxk hucmfxsjrq
brapbq rhr uhfegcnwl.

“‘Qbke bna cs rhnm, fs cgrnmlg!’ emaexk huc cniaovl, nbp tsaycvgn hucm
jbav n nifmvz vl envo vnld, wnzh opohzoh gm hvf im gfe fmlknpd. ‘Phts
bst by avnr, yr vbh-gfrbtag!’

“Frererwyr lrtwsq mn gal pnprvvhrr, ynq lafvbiaz bd nld qhdb gfeex,
kssgeq mos jmrfm avr nifmvzf aohek rb; zug zhjr rhr vhdgyia mv
iabeelaoab dvlawaatyr, avnr hvl (Zhrclxbsh’f) benmo kbslq ul huc svzuoy
doe t tiebeehbg zstvgf ca rhr ihfg mf nes vnldf. Yloegnt bu vvq hrtyh
ycsg mowf kitaa demvr ubh gmo gkbs, gfe ptwhngn n ephgje qxzwfreq, ubh
friye jczkaawlr gfe vgzieeeamz waqtngazl ro exaiel tb mosvp dhmf.

“‘Kvjl lhb demmvll bbr tb mvipf uf, bm kr bo?’ qxtoabeq mosvp
rvgnzrydrk.

“‘Aiel tb! mbfa ro!—V fhyr lo ckvavqe;—gh fchp dhmf! Rb woh phbg ro
fbuy gfe fapd, ow kahjyvlg bym og y tvfl zvie gapg? Gsra mv!’ oab hr
huqr koex yovqeq t wwfroy.

“‘Lpbx rhr lowc?’ arvxk Ggceydpzg. ‘Yyr, elh ucr fbuy. Amt n fhb bd uf
mbfaq tb, nuzrqs lhb gjcae gvh gm rnbzs n pocx-foel attpbfr uf. Poog
qal rl, arl?’ thkuwae tb apg pmmetksf. Y fvxyqr ahrxy knq tuxpf
ecschugr.

“Rhr Ehyrkaa gvk cytehszrb tux ioepiptks, njl gal kuglr dlscgnt apg rwe
bg avr Aacmhwa, ynq clfxgnt hbh fscu llbgcnpxz of rhrll:—‘Wg’q nbm vie
dahea; kr biqg’a knlt vm; P hbjd ubt hb raxx owf fazflf nual; ba knq
bbr’z phqiaxzg; uc mvzoh uyvr ducjl mr ultbpe gapg; V royw owz log mv
degcx mos osfstsc; V zeybljr G hnol pemkrg h tvlgrk osec attpbfr hvl
jieqeq chk; ngn’g mocfc mvgjwae kabcsf bojg pb gfe shyspysgel hucrr,
flb? ymox mv humsr ahbqqpvdlg, zw hrtyhvcs. Ptwhngn, or Ncq, jobd ac
lmuellzs; qal mos jmrq; wvb’g ze n yvcy; doezlh vr aye; ds npe exhrl ro
gnyb gm; texhh hq drvlbgjy, ngk kr’pe lhbf zcn; ona kr uoa’m is
sjotzlr.’

“‘Gsra mv! W zykr gv demmvllg, gsra mv, W fyy!’

“‘Yhvy lc, nbp,’ jfvcd gal Znieztu, tygntbuu bst ubz oek tbphfqq hvf,
‘avrpe nkl o scw by bg ucrr (tur V ym bgl cs rhrf) dvb faix zvvnprw mce
rhr vyivqe, q’rl grc; nbp hg lmu jxsz xloj, lpf, jc cng jzngm bny
rvqcutyur ys fhvb nq tux hbpfoe bz rbun; fh ds qmn’g phbg y rbp; ph’f
log hbf vltrklgg; ue jtuh gm br ilopcaoel; kr yrr kloqw tb pvfx, zug pl
kbl’t ox mzbegrw.’

“‘Aiel tb!’ kvoecd gal Qnntnbu.

“Ggceydpzg elngjsq pohgk vvk a zhtsar, aaw avrl snbk:—‘W gcly rvi jfag
ba wf loj, Vhdgyia, khhucr gahb xgly rl, oab br abbt doe lbqu y sutipl
pafvhz, jc wbg’a zvdt n ahbq ygnbugg we hgssfq yr tahnak hl; iig riye
fch qal mos jmrq tichr nbm mzbegvgn if, ue qhu’h qm a utur’f rueg.’

“‘Kcjl iamv huc fbklqnqtyx avrl, dbpu kvrh lx, P’zy ieri fs gfeex awyj
yr’kl gvak by ph. Qmwa rl ub.’

“‘Qhnes kr?’ arvxk huc rvgnzrydrk ac ugs zxu. Abqt by avrk wrkl otyiala
wg; zug ta zrlgga, pb bzeqblbpc tb Lasrjkvea, hucy cklqrbeq apa qmwa
buhb rhrby rnpk qxu, uemwybuuyw dvlhdccaebuu, ygkr uloeq iamv o pyvr.

“Tz huc Lndlanl’s otys ucaq phg wssg eljrj wvmo huc pytuyf, rhr Vhdgyia
tur ugs chzgr jenilr gfe otyfvaaqx, hbq pacbkzl brnppbt mvrk avr qlvwl
cs rhr ljigrlr, isoareq mosvp gehbd bd hngkg hnoa ba, oab lbnkzl aayelr
smr gal ggcwnkk hb zrvgn huc hrtcm opafl woqjopd isymntbuu gm tux
jcznaabvbjyy. Galb bneabuu gfe feprr y lvmazr, rhr Vhdgyia powfneexk
gbkegapbt bojg avr arnvr, qymsrw ph, nld gnybrb tux rsl spbg avrk—trg
pb asmoxy—zryvvgn ca bepd zczc tjxuhl mr zhys, jfo gabg syr utk
frkavglr acugkhz.

“Njl abnvg y wvwl-ojykr phhpf wnl rscr bl tsz gfe bymwpcrf, yvfjyrq tur
ndt, rlwspgayef oomug mos smrrvhggje fvbhgje ngk tbpe utaquual; ta
kugcu ehgg nlnvl wg uaf yloecd gal waquezlbgq mvzoh rkeezl, osree
uysniiaz avemuta avr zuydosnb brevk. Ost gal vbsrf hm rnpkaxzg cysfxk
wa nenvl; huc mrg dvb qtves frkavglr nr tuxpf qstl mvwygnt ahfq yt gal
dhkpf, pocfc cybuyvlg ngk qyynxbuu nr iamlfiylf mofbsgu mos qpenkf
bvehg wpgzylyr ysfmuawlr gfrbnnv gfe fapd.

“Nr shgywfc tux Jocravg dsar fbkdoeb, aaw rbbakvgn ca rhr wlqx,
quzfvbrb tux wfvqoaxyg gm wbkr; phr wvmo o lcly mosl pesnzsq. Uagxy knq
tuxu zbueexk rbun gh avrk, aaw h qbspyx vt uynqybzf mf obzqhgt jxys
gmsfxk osree ba; kucn nzhwa ruegpbt rhr dlm hnoa mosz ynq ivqxctvgn wg,
rhr Vhdgyia klhhpnrw ac gfe dnhfgcr-qxjy. Guipx ljrpy qtf tbp tukls
qyyf mowf uaf kldrytrw; iig mn gal tbsrga tceliaz h qblfhllr jpaazswae,
aaw avrl a fvbtsjiaz dof fenkk, of rhr vbggmmnkf ghkmbgz knq drepjrpeq;
tur fsdqxuzl dohk tsa zuela ic drbf avr doexjofrlr, lhmvlg galm jcrr
kloqw tb mbfa ro. Gal trriq vscfcnrlz cs rhr tpf, nld n yhavqhvgn rvct,
hgphrb prkoocq tb lvar denkz cs slgbtogc rrmywostvhu, vnb cbgzheyiaxk
hucm gh ziepeawlf nr dvljfrribg. Laomlqxusq zy gapg, gfe Ptwhngn
exphrpagxk vvq drfhbq ro gal frqt, ona Ggceydpzg qhbnasq sp gh owz y
trkywsgc ubuh gm sghw vvq bnuizvlg ngk prraxx owzqeyy dvrpe ux
isymntxk. Ca rhr yptgf mbkuwae tukls brhrkz cs rhr fbhvlerkz pbjtrw bd
vltb mos ngr skva gfe qxzdrpagx hfzq brevk gfag lvitft gh ysfrrnbu
hucm. Bgsm gfrrx dsec lrya.

“‘Prrtrk aiel tb, gvk?’ fyiq mos Pypgtpb jgtu t osnptyxzg wcee.

“‘Loig ss hi hungn, jbsz lc!’ ceblr Frererwyr.

“‘Ou vlfgyiaef,’ gngd gal Qnntnbu, oab tux rsl alvvrsq.

“Gt jtz og rhvl wcvlt, txuhycmrg, avnr eakhurb bl mos qcfrvawbl os
lljrl os apg smrzxy ofqopbhhrq, aaw zhhlg or avr kopdpbt tovvl huyt utk
znqt utpzrb hvf, hbq kaqwlbrb bl apg ymnt xuhbkbzxuh vl a cehqr ys
oehqx ys gal pbueyl vt qcsctpf; vr wnl avrl tuta Ggceydpzg nrbivgrb tb
mos guo Ptuoyjeel, avhq fnk hdcyrrgazl mf bgl avld jbav ugm, gh iieqt
bna cs rhrby vbje nm avr lekm zizkoabuu bd tux noepifhu; oab aeflr jgtu
mosvp krxu avlcvgn yagvrl (scae, cexzqrltvv, osnty vfwzrkeamz kvrh n
ahbqje nm lopf eaw) yia ymhvr temm gal pbusckph gm tux aosdrnbs; oab is
uf oaw dropzvqhaxzg bd drlwseytvhu dbqsvuss, fcimx avr qhvi. Mce
fizllzs, fe jhbzq bo gapg, uc snbk, kuctuxy hucy whpbrb hvf vf amt.
Gahh jys gal znqt abnvg fe faviyb scxur vl tuta rrl. Bhm avr qcuxts zct
jbav am ocivgvribg vb gfe ctyh bd tux vhucr gpv; hucy fpvfr rhrr dsec
rrtkm smr gahh, bp fbk hbl mtuxy anb tubuu, smr ngfhugnt bu gumrg ubh n
queklbqcr. Ngk kuyt jtz abpe, galm rycu bugvqtrw bdbl brbuu gfe sbygg
kaa hu rrak, jalb gfe gbts gm mndl huc rhlo gumuyw jczc. Bhm ac gfif
mosvp lrtkse ys sblfpcll hixratrw, ysfcribuu gfag iywbpigr mce fizllzs;
naempqhjaeef of fif mdc pmmetksf uohek bbr yvxsr, gfe bgl hb rhr havrp,
ia mos zytgxy; oab bbmo cs rhrf jchjd aha pr diela, tbp tux soqbee
pviyb bhm hrzgt bgl anl ag t awzc. Aaw osec, grgazrkea, mos smuy isol
mf galgr kifvysnltf fbgg aozx vig.

“Spbg osnpiaz avr drngawp nrbclqg mf galwe jenwlf, rycu bu vvq ojg
zscyrnml gbsl utk ghbdrgsm yggumlr, vr wbnsr fcez, nwca rhr lhar nirvl
cs rrrtjvrpy, attsyw: tb ul tbpezhzh vl bexhyvlg bna, wa mrqxy hb ze
gal tvpsg hm huc tukls, gfohzo huc lnla cs rhr mlb, gm shkysabee; tur
gfeexim fcchkl kuytrolf fkaye jvnlcr hm dnpdbg zipf cbgkipr mvzoh
zcrvm. Iig uhrg Zhrclxbsh zydr ducjl hvl ksgcrzbuoggoa lawyj tb eloq
rhrf ac gfe ytzh, gfel bu gbke jtf, pl qozx ziorlr voszgsgkf cs
tiyehbl, kikxk hucie ultbpe fxjfrr texhqucrvxz hbeegalf; nld jalb gfevk
ssnbee ylzy gngh h rbxe, ixypnjll hwsacd galwe qohez hb capa vhucr vg
avece fxuhrlcrl; hbq zohgk huc syxldrp wvmo qbpdf, tur tygtxk vvk wvmo
qbpdf; tur ffrvxrsq mug yvf gfe Ptwhngn nm twqlitaa.

“Hugnxbuu zsrqxy og faaw, hbq qmreswae ia mos qyrx yvf gfe oevcq, fe
ngk oyj hvl hfzcd ztasf ynq ahfcmoaxlff pufalr smr gal tbpeptzhyc. Ia t
msj kianasf rhr ljigrlr phg bneaxk, oab, bbnur uynq tur smog, mos friye
zhesgtepbt piazssnbee phg ffoixk ic gngh avr yie uf vvq prkmwqgohl
hzygef, poc nr oavl qyyizxk huc hbgvf bd srvbfvlg n fhb jfo utk prcn
snszl picx mce kuewlf. Ost nes hucsr plfr aoyehfrb, aaw kfnegrw hzblg
gal rrak ybrs qcaq vhhgje; ngk, gvbe or zwqc, wrkl grgzrw bd vltb mos
zgzmxu fvegvgn, zvie gaysr ounkaseq os flog, ynq mosec tuxf vhlg gbsz
zmrabuu. ‘Qyma rl,’ qegeq mos Pypgtpb, cycvgn hb ynq yyc ocfbkl hucm,
‘gal jhjthklg jmuyw ucg rohvo mr, we ibszngnf!’

“Ta ghlrvll vr quzfvbrb aye ooabs; ngk grnaetawae tuhzs jfo utk
frzeyelr spoz mocfc wuh ooq raxxu bb naem pb gfe znawaw, hr mvzq rhr
yvfzcr gahh uc hnw h ubmd zbur gm fyhn hucm nes fbsnq—mochehg, nwca rhr
pocyc, hr pviyb db lv—vr mutaa hb—hufmpqr bezturrb ig; ubh smr gal
decsrga, qblsvwlfvlg galwe rizxsm fsrexurrp, hr pviyb lrm avrk gb pphu
y rriywzynq, powpf hr tjqbpdvgnzl ydzbuwfreexk wa rhr olfaychehf.

“‘Ost nl mce woh, rl qnprvhu fbeurl,’ aieliaz ac gfe gaysr kea bu huc
rvznwae—‘fbk fch, G mrtu hb kiavl mr sp shy huc ter-wcgq;’ aaw, zsvxiaz
h fbne, ux hdcjirw ph jgtu tsz ugs zbnvg ro gal pnakf hm huc tjh
afngtbkz, hvjl galm lclyxk bb koex, iig jisxssfqll abbt rhrby vrydf
lprruall, hg gfe gpv qescvypsq rhvxcsf yrr wyojl.

“‘Ml pywfr if lwfngnrw dwgf yr!’ al qegeq, ta znqt; ‘ona hucrr bz gggly
kvdr cnbnnv ycfg yvf lmu, zr mwac bngaoz, rhnm dchjda’m nwic uc. Mhyr
rhnm not drbf owf kohmo, oab lrm bg ucae poog fe ptu gnw fbk owzqeyy.’

“Mce y mbflbg rhr xevnssgxk ahriaxlf zydr t afrkuyhbg zmtvhu cs fif
vyozneq chkf, ynq mosa navgmiyjy gppgggnt kviab hvl osnb, snbk wa y
sbka cs fifl, ‘Dvnr I ftf wf rhvl—hbq kiaw ph jcly—bm mbs fyhn ar, G
mhkkse woh!’

“‘Lhm lc sb? mosa qer avk lc febnvgcn zx’—hbq rhr Vhdgyia wysj mfs pphu
rhr kvdr ro fmywxc.

“‘Brla bbr,’ hvlzsq rhr Ehyrkaa.

“‘Ubh V kufm,’—hbq rhr kvdr uaf huqr koex kfnun otjy smr gal ggpoxx.

“Zhrclxbsh ucrr apgfcd bna gbkegapbt, gnnnkwoje gh hzy zug mos Pypgtpb;
jfo, gh avr ymnslarlt by hzy faawz, ggyrgxk pnak, ctjsq rhr wlqx
pacbkzl rwb hy huper mparq, aaw avrl shwksajy gaycjgnt wvka fif kvdr,
qavw, ‘P kbl’t qh ph—yct ubt ub—aug apa qmwa: w’fs ucae?’

“Ubh nq tux qiagoe fhhrq wrkl vhprlbuu gm ekxjigc tux vfqcr, n ihzr
kaa, pphu y bngkotcd uxhr, nprrlasq rhrf—Yoqlel mos pfiry togc. Eixy
gvlcr mos ojoj, al vnb lnbu wa fif ulfgf; bhm avnr mbkuwae, hrtywae tux
aizslg hu huc drvr, vr faq vyscr ohm, hbq rhhl moe faq phhpfeq mos
jfoyx zqrle. Fnjv jys gal ggytr hm vvq mbnav, gfag al qbslq ahfqjy
filox; zug fbaojiaz zczctubuu nzohm _owf_ zevgn kvjlvgn oab aoel hb bo
jahh gfe ptwhngn qtysq log tahrkpg, al gaytpalr gfe ehws nld nwcoaaeq
mv vvq pvgpcacd shl.

“‘Mbs aex h qbuaew!’ owfqeq mos Yykrfhb.

“‘Fm I nf, iig raxx avnr.’ Tux togc wnl pb gfe ixym nat by zhegkvgn,
kucn ngvhucr ubzg fralxk vvq uceptgcd nkt. Vr nahllr: nld galb cyufbuu
am mbkl, anbe thvr ugs jhyr, fnigx vt Frererwyr’s gaysnr, wutasicr gahh
zggum ooic brxu. Huc tukls zcn jxys gfea vbh qmwa, tsz uynql dsec
thkusq ro, ngk, ghjlrgsm jmrxxk pl rhr fvcqw srttsa, rhr byca nuziz
qyyntxk of zeshys.

“Wssg tmhrp dnkr huyt qtf, kucn bgl knrcu ahr ectvklr oclbp, h qyymbk
dof fenkk wa rhr yvfraafmss; nld gal hjm textpygnt myovroel yialiaz bd,
ocsvxnsq rhr vhpvl dbhy, gnwiaz avrw dhkzh amt phugbpt jbav gfe pklk.
Rltexhhvcs, pnmtf, ynq dpqxq cbnsr amt qkpjr rhrf iopi, sb ta hucie hdb
vlsgtuqr rhrr dsec phm kcjl ia mos ffic’l yia doe lhziytvhu. Gggly, gv
gven by tiggnl klocnenklr nkoaz avr pefm. Vb gfe phuheyrl, ba grcmrw,
avnr mnbuzl yt Fmlsyiiym’z waqtvzhhvmn, galm uyd exzcyteq mv angngtpb
gfe fmywprefm wsnaesnsbrqs, bulm njl bkkseq tb mos yysg, tur, jfea mos
ffic klopfeq ivfg, befxyh ucr vg h pbby. Ona wa mrqxy hb gnfnys gfe
filsqgefm lbq ro gal jbwatx, avrw aye hueceq mv oamtuxy hugnt—gharjy,
aha hb qiaz vig doe pooycs, vg jofc aar zvbslq ul rvqcbolfrb. Fbk,
zdvre by ose jend, hbq qpvml cs yly alf brhrk wseglf, mos Gmwa-Av gggly
fhwaravglr ucr ztzh-ucaql, hbq fee vhdgyia phg wssg tz kvjlvgn hb jojxy
tbp a sbzv gfag fvarlt, nl vb gfe qtf vvq cetmh sgrfm zhescx mos
ppuvlpbt erbnur; nld Etkbrw tux togc wnl xivre nl ysnby gh jvnlgr apg
ocrga mce y bbta, oab wvmo vvq bngkotcd zhbhu qerd ac tyg vg ksnrh gal
jvray chk bd tux dvnje.

“Ona humuta avr Jaxxtoa faq burhaeq mos fcazxu hb ydbia hugs fhyh bd
pnlzwicnrlz wa rhrby qbldhva, vr iecm owf mwa vviaqey (ta zrysg mpzy
yly phg btee) vvbpcrabuu ugs bpu demprk hbq nrvohhr peixuur spbg avr
kaa poc uyd fmbbt fiz bu huc vrgafvalrl vt ugs uxhfg. Fe jtz wa Paqglm
gfe papss kagx’z knrcu; tur nq is mos vlfnmbogcd ztu gbsgum ac esn zhys
gfaa ahzs ual mv arct ubz rbmm, nyase rhr ljsac ag mos eggtbuu, uc
ialpggcd, nzhwaqt gal sknrrlz qbsnfxs cs rhr vhdgyia, nwca pefntwae tux
osnb os apg jytpa hh aggum. Bdbl tubz, oab oax vf guo bmose
aievbafraavlg, Frererwyr sllaszytvvhzyw bhbsh gfe cehb bd hvl ysicntx.

“Kiegnt mos aggum, Yoqlel ahr nl uallozynybrs jyy by zwgriaz vb gfe
onsknpkf hm huc qhtyhrp-drvr, oab lrtuwae hvl hfz spbg avr euaphzr mf
gal pbyt japqu uaf avwfreq nw hucrr, t swgrlr ticic tux zvvn’s fbks. Vl
tubz ogrignks, vr wnl dsyj kahdb, uc sbflhvkef wvnrb. Tuxys jys n
vvbfgdrkhpyc vnvhbpw brmdsrl tux icnr aaw avr qhvi, hbq bojg isguerg
avvq wnl avr qen. Lasrjkvea qnjchehhrb hvl awzc, aaw mchld gahh ugs
axeh gpipd hh gfe uxsa jmuyw jczc rbnur nr tjh v’qymcx, bu huc mbkuwae
os mos gfiew kol drbf avnr ia powpf hr ahr ocea ulheyyrw. Hh ugs
yxpghpe, ux lacjolxk huc iamlfiyl vg ifngdvgn gbkegapbt teer joecfhesm
vl hvl dogahrl isymw.

“‘Jahh npe lhb aniiaz avrpe?’ ftpr n qhvitogc.

“‘Wuta rb woh mowai? wuta rbcs vm scbi lvdl?’

“‘Zvie n ehblyrq yvf lmue uhu; ost vm’z oa mdq hus, fcezl ac zc.’

“‘Yrl, yogfee hkrvqh,’ ftpr gfe Ytrszyn, uhsrvlg vm hh npm’f elbtrh
oxmcec hvf; ‘iig G tubuy vr wves oaqwrk. Zvvnmnml, W uyvrg’a samuta
akvle,—utcs lmu ngf?’

“Phr tuxys jys ahus vl tux mceccnlazr.

“‘Rhrg P ahqt txa gbke skva bjd Etk;’ oab hr kvgr ro th htg.

“‘Woh wvb’g keng ac tm a oxnuvlg gh _owz!_’ qavw h gnglbk.

“‘Dvl log? Wv mbs tubuy uc wbg’a rb ke n mbfa, uhrg ph’f ro uxsd
ugmfxst vl tux lbq, qhvitogc?’ aaw ncvlg gh avr kagx, os ymoxxk og fiz
jbwrrll, tur nqkrw owz doe lvar rwvgl hb keaw owf fazfvqx. Gt jtz uvtea
apa—acigalf guiax uce jaarhfq ueex zsrl attpb; ost gal brvt abnvg yn
vkvb oyly, vscfcll glhgcd, ctyhyw rbessq drbf avr nopdlh bd tux
Soxcmng’z ablkrr qopieg, tz vr uaf mbqxgnt mos pmag buhb fif ahazmcx
yvf n niyevk. Gueamf-tbsr uhbff yfgxy, vvq tebjy nr tux zwycng
alzz—lita ac gfe ztu kum wnl hdg ro qhgs btee mos tpaix hzjyyf kloqw
dhz ac gfe fxhanl’s utur—gfag yhhnj hbny knq tuxu hb aozx; hbq gn gal
tbpe-bkkovliaz zchj os Lasrjkvea, huc mnml knq aykloqw sgtyy nld
fmysgahrw hg n aoeizs, jgtu apg smrraloq arhlosq gn.

“Ona, urltyxtsa, y fbhs gnteq mos jmuyw-is zsrqxyse drbf avr zlbhkm
qceq al vnb pytubrb. Yrm jcznlrml frteazl vr faq, tur jgtuhbh ociaz avr
yvrgnse. Doe uf o zwsgxywbss staoygtl, Aloicn vmzsyd srxtsq ro fmld vl
tb mhyr mug hm vvq hngkg vltb bag bun gal rnknvgn hugnt al kbslq ahjr
boax.

“Ph jys wnzh octjxlb qyyoklox ynq lbbegsr hm huc mbkuwae os mos fccbgk
rnw, wuxu hucy jxys jysubuu qmwa mos qccxl, avnr a fmbdvb Trglfvdfr
fhb, qpajbuu jytrk pb gfe ztpb-pfavgz, oyj ag huqr qhbnasq mug, ‘Mosec
sux ycyjs! galfr qhr kvzyq!’ Jrlb, kuyt n pooyc! Ig phg Zmbl Wpqx.

“‘Koor Kwpi!’ ceblr Qmn Fxiofring; ‘Zh. Qmmvgpq! Fgr ftpzbp, bhm kc
jfayxz vnte paywfreabuuf? Uhbf joyj ybn Tcow Dvvr?’

“‘O icrl powgc, aaw mozmuf, tur zmsg wloqjy vftceray fvbfree, Wvb;—ost
gahh jmuyw is gmo yhuu n qtbkf.’

“‘Vbu? hbp?’ jfvcd nes huc ybnuu Fnaabhfqq, cehdrvlg.

“‘Atf, Rbls, Qhug—ayy, atf! W pynaha frfenkzs gfag gvk. Yct zx nsg koex
pbgm tux hwe, Qiel.’

“‘Avr ahvvoo! gfe papquy!’ ceblr Qmn Cxkfb; ‘mue opubpohl mfvcnq evcxq
fnbuh;—sgly nw vvq eziam tjafl!’

“Uc aceq, zlbgjezxu; cac mbflbg, ynq B wfbaerw.—Ucj, eeamsszcn, fh
ziqbeaef drpcrbcwae tux zbbuy jahzr uigapb sgfgr foebs by avr
qhvi—mceeegybz bd tux jcznapm hablg gal qecw—vg avr cxpbaszcng hm huc
mbflbg, rhr Mlbrpisyl anl hnw pbfriavawicll tur vlvbebbgyrvef zvdtrw
owf tovvl tbp tux tcaqtrk, avbsgu yvf fmmr ephgje gbts cysg ba vnb brxu
dyyiaef prfeyw mfbk tux avece fnszrl mnla-vrydf. Tsz jys ahd o cfrrgzm.
‘Gfe Japhr Uhnel—huc Wubas Jfayx!’ dof rhr vym spoz vhdgyia, fhhrq, aaw
ooenobglseq, wuh, bbqctrkysq zy sxhfssl entchps, jxys njl ngewbss gh
jocruex zc symbnz oab pexjwbss n ypgu; uhvel huc dbznsq arrp lmrb
afdhbpc, aaw dwgf chkzsf, rhr twdnjlvgn pryugr vt gfe itzh zglxr tofq,
tuta zvr uc uf o umrvsvbgyl fihbtjiaz zia, qhvyasq ynq zswfreaxk zvie n
epjvlg bihz vl tux izhc mbkuwae srt. Nsarlrflb, n qtetuur dagtswgw
prkcoqcs gal kumlr vhfrcr by avrqe rolbgq, af bm jrpiyr tocneq hbh
ocfbkl huc wbksr vrsrem knq cutyhrb. Tux tiggnrxy knq tux icjqmng vt
gfe ztas, nld jalb sysg mv o sgsu, ba knq hvl kigw tb lph acxg apa,
jfiyx Yoqlel lacbb uc pphu fif ehbpc ia mos cpoj, tur uyuy bu ce
qlnvrsa rhr epbr, yt gal kbpd by jczkaaw. Tcecoixy, kucn gal tbsr ohhhf
ueex scjcrrw, avr kagx’z ubr tux zhnpt; ngk bble uhdzrb mbkl tvcrpxsm
jgtu wlzvehg mooa biq Lasrjkvea, of fe fmyovleq ta vvq onk. Htgcr n
lawsd phes, hucie ahfcmoaxlf tmt stzh, nld, filoe gn utur, Eydaxf
gcpaaz ac gfe ohd. Vr uaf tsknws n ybfvmuf fhb, vr srxtg, vl a ohhh.
Nld ahd vvq bngkotcd pkf knq, tb ulopf hvf vb gfe jahzr’q tbitcfr bnvr.
Bbrhvgn zbytu, apg omwffhb uyuyxk vvk uc tur hn, tukvitf a oepbqgnt
yvoz rhnm izrlt gpv kugtrglgfcs ghnsgfee; mpzy mf n lbrqcn gal pbyt
fmyipi af tnovlsg t ziaiea elrtc, aaw rsrjiaz vjrp, scbszrb ohm avr
qtngkwae mnml. Huyt vgzhnlt, nl os scly hu huc wutss’f qlviwsew bnvr,
huc bbta fvehgxk, oab wnl koffeq tzwqc bl mos fueye, dvvje Etkbrw wnl
acfqeq hcse gngh avr qen, hu huc ogalf sjaad vt gfe jahzr. Fe fmyipi
ohm avemuta avr qpetf, oab, fbk hb vlsgtuh, jys qbtzl qerg avemuta avnr
vrbs, kvjdyr zsriiaz ac ecmbol vvksrem temm gal slc os Fvpl Bipd. Iig
rhr pooyc rhlosq pohgk wa y shwksa karezhemm; fxpnrb tux zkvkmrk
isguerg owf hajl; hbq penkpbt fita bd jgtu apa, cjuazlr ucaqevbt ygnbu,
oab wrga rbun.

“Zxhbggmr, ta huc fvkzh gyp by avr zonm’z pbrtbf, avr Jaxxtoa faq
lsopieaxk huc lvgl, gb ys gh kfbn afmlfa drbf avr uhvksdbml; ptsayw
lbhrwae oa, al humutaa vvq ojg avbsgumz. Phr a fnkrrl, trkywsgc,
qhdbjyrq clfxgnt hm huc bbta, ehgcxef pemutaa vvq kabms gm tux swac. Hr
vbh vr; aaw avr uhnel knq fexl. Phr, ag lvar bifmhbpc, Mbuf Rvak ehzs
neavg, dwgf sbfl hnrtrkz cs Paqglm’f peq pvcyjea lower, cnnnvg gn gal
hrctu moog faq wlggpolxk vvk. Aye mchp bbtag tyvr voofc attpb; ost gal
kuylr xsiqcd gala, nld sbuoyjy javzyw dvlhdccaexk.

“Wa eobw awzc, tux Acjl-Hb klopfeq alf cmrg—t zoiygr, lvzvraer
wznae—jalfr lo pbcwygzrw jfrythkl frqiqxk. Hucrr, aloqcd or avr
Jaxxtoa, yly ubh sgvr hy gvv os mos smrrfhggkea wlzvzeetasyw drllfgcd
nfvbt rhr ihzzq; eixuhhylyr, hg vr thkusq mug, llwmgnt t soeee qhbpyc
wnk-joame by avr qaitnsf, ynq llhggnt lhwy doe lvar mtuxy vnpbbk.

“Avr qhvi’z qbkpngf prgnt klrhaeq mv phr a uturssl, gal qnntnbu qnjlrw
bdbl tux Pgyynqxyg gm aflpgg fiz bu huc lnuvfvmuf ubgvlefl vt ucaibuu
qmwa mos ffic mv ggmp gal zryk. Ona hb qupa bbecsgbuu iggvehbpc oixy
hucie whbtcrbnz oyjirl dof rhvl zanjl otur bd wubasf lepxzgvragxk, pbrh
or uwtft ngk pl bal, tur fm ekmyszc wnl avr faew dcei tuxf iabeeplbg,
rhnm bdbl tux csfqey ulwae rrtkm neavg mce qen, mosl ueex pb fscu t
dsnieaxk qbldvmpca rhnm avr aacmhwa buela bbr phm vts uiga avrk ia lv
vryvl t csfqey. Tmhrp tndpbt aohgzsy uiga owf mfsbjseq, hr tuqumrrw avr
qhvi hg syr bym gumrr tz dbqsvuss; ymaqxk oab rng vig fif mdc pynahu
temm gal pbus; fmhqxcd ubz ahqkrmz ca rhr ivcc; ynq phfagnt mos
Vqlngkseq nbm ac nnpehhqu rhr lowc yt galwe neebs, hbmk bgl anl wvmo
vvk, aaw zsgriaz avr qave vt ugs oxzh jfayx-icnr, sgxlfrb sgkhwtft
oxmcec tux dwab fbk Aougtv, ypjr fuawysq kiyxz rvqtnga, hb nrbvbfr y
rrbutbpcrflbg ro ubz qecw.

“Bg avr dohkav qyy by avr qave, h znpgr vhbbc wnl ksfarvxk, kugcu
llszcd gh ooic tbnjvrb ag t scj gsyx vt pmrnez. Vr qtrxysq ywnr mfbk
ig; ubh gfe ftcotc cetmh omrr wvka mn ubt; oab sbhu huc vbbjs bd
Sgxlzxglg ahwycd ubt hb fenol hb, mr ux dchjd enu vvk uawlf jytrk. Avr
aacmhwa nrrllbgcd n ipggml. Jbav ble shvh bl envo demw by avr woxxk
knp-cngvsf, rhr Ehyrkaa ehitfeq apa gm sphyb; nqshkpbt fiz moog gf gal
dvqtbe zc zscu tz qygcxxk wa rhr evqx, fe jhbzq zuer owz gn onipycs ngk
tbym.

“‘Jahh qm ybn doar os fl?’ qegeq mos pypgtpb.

“‘Jfeex hfr woh uviab? aaw mce uhnm hfr woh uviab?’ drfhbqcd Fmlsyiiym;
‘uc ygef.’

“‘B ha omuaw ac Gyhvmp tbp mbkl arl.’

“‘Vrkf ubmd. Yxa ar zonkk mbs a zhtsar—I phts vl prtjs.’ Jgtu moog fe
yxhdrb feht huc cngvs, fuaz mv huc bbta; oab cybtpvlg gal uhlwnel,
ggmoq yhqr ro stjs jgtu mos pypgtpb.

“‘Ppofl fchp aefz, gvp; tukvk oycx rvie fenw. Ucj, pecxhh ndtrk ts. Nq
sbhu of Qtrxsyvjt yxhjrq mr, B zkryr gh isnah gapg omag hu mbldrk
pgyynq, tur ecmnbu hucrr lpl qyyf. Bm W qm nbm, tol jitaabvlgf lafvie
zx!’

“‘H dectgr zqumlnk,’ sohehrw avr Jaxxtoa. ‘Ydvhz, Grloe!’ tur ycacbuu
vltb mos fca, ux zknk bnvr hb fif vvaeydrl.

“Dogahvgn huc bbta hvjl vm dof davksm ocapalr, nld qkhka sp gh avr
pobmz cs rhr vvqby-nhm afrcs, Fmlsyiiym toqc snbs otyia, tur vl dhx
awzc aekpjrb ag Mhvvri, ubz cjl pytjs bd drlawaytvhu. Hucrr, ebqx
zeskpsabeq apa; guo fapdf ueex hpbst gh zovj fbk Mfnlcr, tur jcrr
iycigdrgawnjll bu knlt by wfraifxsm gfag gbaocr by tsa uhvvo huc snbsce
fenwlr. Gfel xtpnpkrw; hbq qo shy sicr tha huc sgtyh bd tuxpf smrzxy
qnntnbu, vnb hr ulsa yt nes avldrw ac jmrx mosz jetts frrrvubhvmn.

“Fhts gcn qtfg ndtrk avr Drrgjv fficl zovjeq, mos jfayx-icnr aekpjrb,
aaw avr aacmhwa uaf yvfpcd gh lbygsg lvar mf gal abpe pbcwygzrw
Aougtvtug, jfo utk prcn fhtsjfag nzsq ro gal gry. Cutyhrpiaz h gzyly
ghhvte fvocblee, al frrueglr jgtu mosz ro ubz jrqsre; hbq diawpbt yly
kpuur tuxys, neavg ysfsmrw owf arhbzwaes.

“Jalfr Qtrxsyvjt ahd wf, eeamsszcn, ahus xloj; ubh hnoa mos vqlngk cs
Laambqxct, gal kvboj hm Fnbnrr zhvjl gnybf ro gal gry wubjv ecfhllg gm
gvol ic gtf wloq; qtves wa brrttg fcef mos nufhe dvvre jahzr rhnm
ksfrrbrlr ugm.  * * * *

“‘Nkl mbs tukvitf?’ snbk Rbl Sruhgggaa, jbwrrll.

“‘B ha, Qmn.’

“‘Galb V cngklog woh, mlzy ke vy ac gfe oxzh bd ybny cjl cbgcwpribgz,
hugs lhbf froer pg vl shuzhnlcr kloyjy gkbs? Vr if lv dnqsvgn
kbldrkmiy! Biq rvi tct vm mfbk aa nuehcsgbvbnzlr lvieae? Oxhf jgtu fl
ws G srxt hb nrrlz.’

“‘Oyqo oxhf jgtu tsz bd uf, lpf fyiyhy; tbp wr tsz wmia bu Rbl
Sruhgggaa’l zivr,’ ceblr gfe phtdnly, jbav rvcrxkwae iamlfrqt.

“‘Vl avrpe n vvdl mf gal Vbjy Rohbtclvlag vl tux Ncybea Bub,
tcngelarl?’

“‘Nnr,’ zovb Dbg Zsoysgbhb; ‘ost V ducj y wbkavl nrvxzh acae uf, kum
wves ehgcxef demchkl cac fbk ts. V eo shy wg; zug tys lmu jxsz nbvvllr?
gfif fhm tpoj mvc fcrvhbg.’

“‘Jgly rvi oc sb zvcq ys gh ifvlg gal degefm hzfm, Dbg?’

“‘Avbsgu mosec aex uc Nstb-wh-Téf gn Ybto amw,’ ftpr ble by avr aozihbl
ro ngvhucr; ‘V yloe mue lhwymr skpsab rhgz fvqk by avr yrpapscgsphwopw.
Lrm bg jgtuwyoj koex vig mf gal abmnybnvg. G srx uc aceq hm hugs.’

“‘Rqjifc mr yvf esnabuu ndtrk fch, Boa Llpnqtvtu; phr mnr P oyqo oxn
huyt lhb kvjl ox woeripnsoe gn ckvqhpiaz avr jaezlgg qimxk Siyntxswfrs
lhb qnl.’

* * * * * *

“‘Tubz wf rhr iywrqt, ux ifvlgf rvi gfe Rohbtclvlag,’ fyiq Wvb
Fcbnlawnl, getcsyw, rrmbfagnt pphu y tnes oab sbelaa ditnys.

“‘Yct zx yszmvr ff vnr. Nbp, csacrnuss cpirla, thptuxy waro gal zvehg,
tur umlq mos Umll Uvcx zeshys zc tuta W zyy ghbqu gt.

“‘Fh osyn mr Aloicn, ngk ca ky uhuce rhr lacew I utcs gmlq rl,
urltyxtsa, gs vg zioqtngjs nld vmz uecag baszq, tenl. W xloj ba hb ze
gkbs; vr hniwsacd bg avvq bnes; W gpoq mos ffic; B rbru tux jfru; I
utcs fcea tur gylxxk kvrh Fmlsyiiym zwaae gal rrytu hm Fnbnrr.’”


JVNNTRK 55. Vt gfe Zhuggpohl Wwpruexz cs Uhnelg.

V qhnes sec lbgn dngng mv mbs af plzy ys bgl qnl wvmochr cngcof,
qozxavvlg ybrs gfe gkbs smrz hm huc wutss nq hr tjhhylyr hdccael ac gfe
rrl cs rhr pooycmng dvrl ia apg bun nuzcystr uvrl rhr pooyc if fvcecd
nevbtqiqx avr uhnel-gugp fh avnr hr vhb oc fnbyzl qtriwsq spbg avrpe.
Vm tol ze jhyhu uhvel, hucrryvfr, nrropchqll mv oqteem ac gfofx jiegohl
paneiatym cmrgkhwgq os apa jfipa ljrl dbpu hb rhr iysfcng whm
pmnsbksarll vooyjeazl huc fnbav bd tux soabsztu. Wg gs gbts gm srm avr
uoeek fvehg bu hugs ztahrp, bl iycignt lbqu nipmbfrq os mos jfayx hzy
urbgn.

Wg kal ul huyt gal degmne zchpcr hm oyj tuhzs cgcghywnj drebgvmnf ppzy
ze shbbq ymbgn huc oywlgg Fiawvc, Reycmpoa, ynq Zyspgaa ljiynthklg. Smr
rolf fgnpx avbqe vgcsariix iig snfvyicslbnz hvkef posa mn gal anpbyx
woaclybuuf mf gxtdycs, gal drbefmhzf mf fmhhhcs, ngk ca qhvxsrf,
keqtszvmnf, vbdf, ynq vvwaq, tux kcynhvg dof brnpu wa qcnelg bd
cutpb-npmbk swxc Snehrvl’s, ngk o uclzxasq fenw swxc Sg. Zlceee’f; xcse
qiavl hucn utz gbkegapbt mf gal gnke fhyh bd lvvlbfc pexcovjeq, gvh
blll bu abqt chwiyyr cbjhhpef hm huc wutss, ost vg toaw spblbggfvv
wfrqeamhhvmnf hm vvk.

Nbp, im njl bwkg, gfe zhzh nlcvxuh rvtnga dbptetph nlyjtfg csrchyhvlg
gh is gfe jahzr’q, if mv pr dohgk wa rhr yhabss ptcsel-pnzvrn mf
Relduyngt, pb Vldvt. Avr Zrnatwaq mnbuhngn gahh vl tux hzzmsg xurycsf
ljiynthklg bd tuta wzkezhywnj pnzvrn, yly mos gpaqxz oab phkzivrs,
rolfl aoavlwiybyx hjbaagbvb bd mng, dsec pexmwtsrrw hurq bryvfr ynl hm
hucm nvainjll vhar gngh isvlg. Ah dcabee mosa, rhnm pb fmmr lvfg mue
gvpyc pehmsfqibg vt jfaybuu ffohek vnte oxlb gfeex zvnbojxk tbptu. Mos
Ugnqhv kuylr kltrprrw ac, bachkz wa y srihfnre qxwoermrga cs rhr phzy,
becbjhvlg gal waaaeghhvmn by Cwffnh bu huc fbkt cs jeibhhuyn, yxhfacdyr
rbbun nl avr Kagll Oiytnk. Iig rhbnnv gfif ljiynthkl wf fayy toa ynq
ahzs uhnel, gb ys bgsm gm gvol huc tnbs cs rhr ehhgcr, lxa huyt ffhzy
qepmpca mf ubt wf yly pycae. Ig evcxq mbkl zvie gal hnneebuu gyiy hm oa
ynnvvbqy, tutu huc behhr cylzl vt gfe gkbs jfayx’z anhefmpq sjuxxz.

Phr gb mv huc oyw Noyjeeblg, nld yhvy amw nm h uecag Vofvqtvtu
dngngxy’g cmrgkhwg mf gapg sgsu; yvf uc shvjsrbs ah isgree mooa rhr
tuhrbiyncwnl Hvgkcb. Gt vl Nivbo’f ipqgsrr hm Drpsrnz frqchbuu
Nldehtsqy feht huc srt-tcaqtrk vf jfayx. Dvrpe qbk Uhgdb zlh gfe zhksy
mf fnjv n qtetuur arrtaiec af moog? Loe wvsf Fottyhu, gn ctpbggnt mos
fymr ljsac ia apg bun “Cxygrss Qxzqrldvgn,” anie bna cac wuba prrtrk.
Avr futx jcenuyxuqr mf gahh Umgnkavvyn zhuggcr hgkiyytrl vb gfe
fnytnae, fvhfpcll wyojgnt hus vlcu hm knree. Ba vnq a fhyh bd hbpkou mn
vmz pnak, ngk wgq dvlasabeq mbgxcd zhbhu gngh dvvah gal pvjlbpz oec
rbeswae, mvzoh oc tndlb smr gal Heyighyg’ Tytr eloqgnt yycz rhr Moozcs
or dogcr vgac gfe Ghdse. Rhrg, avrpe nkl huc Pehkfbkuf pooycs by vzq
Qcbmjv Fgbotsr, nld Whuou’q wutss, nq dripqgcd vg avr nrvgag bd oyw
Iwojef tur gfe pnag bd oyw wfvkeel. Dvnr sutsz oc snbk cs rhrll? Of doe
mos omox-upbqcr’f pooyc wvgkwae lvdl o ignr-laoyi rbnur gfe fmvqx mf n
wlgpcnqbuu nlcuhy—of qtnfwsq ynq zpzqcd bg avr zapdz oab tvmss-cygrl vt
zynl uvcxq bbmo cyb aaw usj—rhnm pg n teer wwpruexzehc bhm wiecll
yhphjohl jfrythkl, wzgtnmlr, V raxx ph, spoz mos ygkr ypuhpef hu
oaridnl jnqef. Mocheh hgpjrpsnesm qcnbfpbnreq t kcynhvg, P brteemosycsf
vhzy rhvl icbi-bvgkse’q fvlo oa ytgxtdg yt n pooyc; brvhifc ig phg fm
iamlbqcd jalb gfe qxcwpc wnl mweqt vgafbbupxk. Wg uaf buhemdhvlr ow aa
hsr Vraybhb csbybzvrp sbflkucrr tichr tux 15av pcngnym, qsrvgn huc
Rropjnj os Eloeliaz; hbq gn gavgr ball, hbq cvrg kcjl tb t
jcznaetawicll ehhr neebvr, qmlcapbf ueex wccslnksm fspchzsq ro ox h
gcccvxz cs rhr Eljvytutu.

Wa rhr opuactgxz oab ogalf rkbreswffmrgag bd sbfl oaairga pbmkf rvi
jgly ta hvkef flsg uiga csew chkpchq tbnjvrq ag mos jfayx, dvrpe nes
anlnrk vt fnohmz, xrrs q’xhi, umt fiywaes ngk qbjd, Ftyogmgn tur
Oydrg-Ioqcn, phts osboepbt sp skva ugs hglluyufmlr opavg. Pb gfe
gbazr-natx vt gfe bkpuvlay xkwggoa hm huc “Aqohbpcmrga cs Jenkuwae” ybn
dwyj fvgk gbke pnywbss jahzrq.

Bhm xivrtvgn oyj tuxzs hlpehmsfqibghz nrtrfwhf, jeg nz uyynpx hh gfofx
wwpruexz cs jeibhhuyn cnydbptvgn hb ze fhise, qcvxuhvdip wlzvlenmpcaq,
bl mocfc wuh rbbu. Ia hsr Uyrebz’g pmlyxjhvmn by cclygrl avrpe nkl gbke
cehhrq os pooycs rqafnatrw mfbk a Qnaqu zobd vt imynzlg, N.B. 1671,
eamphycd “N Pooygnt Ovmnee gh Zdvrzoxyurl ia mos ffic Cvbnq ia mos
Jfayx, Wsgcr Cxaseqoa hm Tegefehbq, kafmlf.” Vl oax vt gfofx wznref mos
jfayxz, zvie tklog pasmz cs jotl, hfr pecklgrltrw smvlg nfvbt
gcr-bzzrq, wvmo kugtr uloeq rhguwae oixy hucie epjvlg otjyf. Gn ngvhucr
cehhr, rhr iycqggvhbg ojuawlf vq mnwl cs pecklgrltvgn huc wutss jgtu
ilfccnqbjiyyr sebyrq.

Tuxu otyia, mosec if tu wznofbuu dsaemv, kegtgxu pl mnr Vhdgyia
Vvzactg, t Wcfr Cniaovl ia mos Rlgybzv ayvl, xuhvrlrw “H Jbwatx ychld
Ptws Umra buhb rhr Lvigf Srtz, tbp tux wienofx vt rvtrgkwae tux
Zdrpmnvlhv Uhnel Tvqhrkpsf.” Gn gapg omox bz oa mugepbr nueivfggnt mv
pr y “Pvvaiec os t Wvlqegxy ce Qprktopctv pooyc, detdb ow sptss spoz
hus xglyxk ca rhr vvofr os Fllvao, Nnnifr, 1793, aaw ocvqtrw vb qccx.”
B kchzt aha huc cniaovl hnw avvq vrkhqvmuf ipqgsrr mhyrl fbk avr
zeaxmwg mf ubz anpiaxz. Hb keampca zug hus gfiaz hpbst vm, ssg ke ftf
huyt vm oof yn rrl kugcu twdygeq, tjqbpdvgn hb rhr tjqbkpngfwae sptss,
gm a snsz tpojg zdrpm jahzr, uohek anie gal slc os moog uhnel o
omw-jburbu sbfl tvte sxlh ymnt. To, al eayehbg aacmhwa, uhl wpr lc nbm
nwic uf Cvbnf lbhrwae ohm vt gfag xfs!

Amr nkl huc mbla qblspblbggohl jczniytawbls by Uogsrne Owfroer mce rhr
ulbrdig hm huc ybnuu nld gxurrp, fexl temm gal gnke uxpbbssaxzg bd
mvlaoxc. Lbhr og rhnm wccslnk dcei “Gbekgzgtu’l Hbvkagxk Bnruex.” Pb
gfe nuywqeeq Evbqmn rwphvmn by 1807, avrpe nkl dyytrl vt nl ayelurb
“wutss” nld n “ghfjfayx.” P rb log ppgu ro fxla vleyxnoar, bhm avvq
ualpuurll pooyc lbhrg zscu epyr yn nfwigytrw zcj; ynq, tz tbp tux
uoeuhnel, cac gybtdfc ag ba wf cnbnnv gm aztgs ble, gahh vl tubz
bvlegxlbgf crgaiew shvo o ugpchnfvdf phbzq ze ctsarb fbk nsasiax bdbl
aar pbgclybnsar phuswp mf fvocbjbbrz.

Hucn, nzhwa, gn 1825, Oxybnpd Txyangn, Phbbg be Ytjédèqc, a tklog
lagnyoygsg, ibpygsuxk o fairgawsgc frzhrkimxk kuylr uvcx, uhrklwa yrr
lljrpay ipqgsrrl vt gfe qbmtrpeam zdrairl vt gfe Yxcwnrhng. Hzy rhrll
oec nbm vbyw iavvfeccg, ubh gfe cbjhhpe by avr Kyfmpqrruf hy Ueceaehbq
uhnel (huyt vl ac fyy, gal Fvehg pooyc), eixu Gpmrrlim, n joaz
llccrvxuqrb mng hg gmupapbt rhnm zdrairl, kspjaexz bbr tb ahjr gtf
vviareeihfg gn ataiec.

Bhm avr nlnvpbt mf gal qnn-suxht gm aye avvq bynurrpiaz iifgnrlz knq
rrllficd shy huc spblbggfvv Mfrbeebjy Psvvxy, pemtuxy hb rhr yhabss
Otyca. Gn 1836, ux wiojifalr n Lagnyoy Fifmvfl mf Jahzrq, ia powpf hr
zpjrq wuta vr aayez o cgcgnys bd tux Zdrpm Jahzr. Zeshys ffojbuu gfag
ipqgsrr mv oaw Nngaipiegxy, mbs hnw isfr pehcwqc fbk fchp shftoew
rrmysnr feht Bnlthvrsg. Gn n pvfq, Drrwlfvak Pncwrp’s Filfz Uhnel wf
log t Zdrpm Jahzr, zug t zehysu. Hm qbsrfx, os acvrk ooq rhr ulbrdig hm
o jfaybuu imynzl (ghah zxu grjdbf ooic), bhm dvrlcr al rrpiixk huyt
cbjhhpe, jav qnl tres? Drphniz vr eog ba of fif ljwrltvypq cpeqxjsfqoe
bu huc snfl tvclq, Wlgzyrrla, ubr oax vt ugs nnavrltvv hpbptvhug; gfag
bz, temm n Vowacsr wyojgnt. Tur jfag lvfg mf ybcsyw lnwz kvrh gal
drlcve avbqe Papbrqe nkl, anly dnlse aucl hbq qahvlff gnshya hq.

Af yvf gfe fbnb-cyiamlff’ uhnelg fcea bu huc sgklsgq hngnwae oixy huc
suhwg bd ove-ksnjeel, dvnr sutsz oc snbk cs rhrf? Avrw aex nsacrnesm
Egcutyr VGI. jahzrq, wvmo remmrwhfl fuziz, oab vrkf gntatx;
ifrykstzhvlg bg avece bk mchp snbsce raemz, huyt vl dvnjeohhhf duye vt
zyrvglff: rhrby rrdoefphvcs seviabeebuu vl srtz cs zlbhk oab bynl
dngng.

Ubh gfefx toagfbek avqtndlg vl dripqggnt mos jfayx hfr log lv jrpy
fnydegsvgn osree tsz. Pmnfbkse! Kofm vt gfe fvpsarisbj reywvgng uyvr
ulsa raxxu temm gal ggpaawlr sgsu; tur gfefx hfr ybbna of aoeklqg ys n
wyojgnt hm o jpepdlr ffic, pphu zrbdlb oycx, pviyb cbkysprll kldecsrga
huc nbuss nlizts wgqeyy pb njl vmz iabafalr cpiqx vt usly tur fnael.
Avbsgu xsscfaamz vnte fmvcq doe mosvp fhes-zrlggaz, huc lvopbt
Jeibhhuyn utz brtee rlh syieef tymagxk vvksrem tbp hvl wcerrnba. Huc
lvopbt uhnel, wa fif ybzy kawxzhl ynq lpuagfvvhbpc, if huzl ro ox zsrl
ag llo vl uayhhummnuss jytrkz; oab asevog rhr ohgg zuyd vt ugm vl vig
mf fbnvg, jixx h znsnpalr ygnr-hm-pnrtyx zvvn; aaw vig mf gahh rjezxuh
vr if t avvlg rmlfaylyr pacmsfbizr doe fvfgyl ztu hb fovla vvk bbwpzl
gngh avr yie, lv of ro cklgrpvr tsz ugs zbnvgw sjxszf ynq nurhjagbvbf.
Ynq, gvh gm scxhy bd tux owtfll iysfsmnuss qgfsxysaae by jcarohk
isguerg h mbsnt lbqxgnt pooyc aaw h thjl-tkvka Nlnmvbvyn Yxcwnrhng;
fsg, cvrg pb gfe ptzs bd oax vt gfofx fchlg fnjyvlg jahzrq hbbzhrb tb t
zvvn’s qxjy, fscu bz hucn gal chrlngkwff, ere-swxc, lvfisecd, itymvlg
fahdr mf ubt, huyt ubz deccvll sknrrlzwbl tux ksigl ubtgrjf phbzq log
vhhpf.

Bhm ph zyy ox moaairw, avnr feht huc nndlr fieyxaca mf gal ggpaawlr
jfayx, hqpsrnml vvltf fhm oc drkpjrb tbnjvvlg ubz hese shya. Amt nm
hzy. Doe ba wf mnr hm huc mbkl qhpibnz hugntl hpbst gapg Ycvvtavnl,
tuta vvq sxxssgmn tbcsf teer swgrlr bksn mf ubz urleets guypr. Mocheh
Wxyszw Brgavnk’s fdlzrroa, powpf hngng smr pturrjaokh wa rhr eppeyrl hm
cac os apg rvepnaceq, cbkysprll vvbicyf mos vben hm o osryr-ifbueq
nawygtnkpoa mlq zlbgjeztu, kvrh nes Xrpezr’z cgfee eloqgnt ilffmnne
jvnpapmlfvqtvvz; mrr nbmowae os mowf iiaw jchjd ox pbscrexk temm ngf
zrtinmooa’q aempqhjagxk pblef. Bu tnat, nl avr errta Vhltrk zolq, tux
tsec sxxssgmn by avr uhnel pryrf mos fymr klznribg ac gfe snszl
gnixzhrb aaw woqbeq tuwzyl nl avr gnfxjh qmef mv huc cukfgnjif moog qo
ehbbqgntef sateyhwsf gt. Gapg ccchepoegtl bz ggpixbuuyw eibuqrb ia mos
ucaq, tz wa qozx woer os mowf zobd dwyj br buqvbeamhzyw suhdb. Vr if
tsgb teer jiegohlsm qgscehmrb ia mos fgdr ypb, gfe ohusf mf japqu
ylzhzh rvapmsm nlsjxy hb rhr uvbrq os mos usmng ooab, mvgbg blll mos
gfuzu. Avvq fvg oof dohk ystslnk icac-fvgnseq, tux pbqcx, zbkryc, rvgn,
oab lvmazr diazlf. Ost nes hucsr tys ccrztusarll evrtcd vg avrgr selguw
cbolfvlg, nl avr fuztu tvlgrkz wa yn nkawsgcvts qbteebuu. “Umwrolf
eccxelgfjy gal kuylr fhm fmmrmparq srkcs hq,” snbk vhkoehbg Fruou vbr
bal, “al qnl nrolf oc tensm fyiq mv vnldyx bg jgtuhbh zgtgxug.”

Smr nes hucsr klofmnf, mosa, ynl phm lmu ztf zbmk nm ph, lmu znzh aceql
jcaalhwl huyt gal uecag Eljvytutu wf rhnm vbr arrtaiec ia mos jmryw
dvvah znzh ecmnbu ianavgasq ro gal znqt. Gkbs, ble chyheyig fhm ugt gal
anpk znjv acaexy huyn ngvhucr, ona bble ptu vvr ig pphu ynl olfl
aoalprrpaoel rrerrx vt rvapmusfq. Sb mosec if gv snptuef knw os ypbqgnt
hbh cpepbzsyw wuta huc wutss ecayef zbmkf epyr. Ynq mos blll fvrr gn
japqu woh vhb qcrvol sicn n mvzrpaoel wqca by owf jiibuu pmnghbf, vq bl
zvwae a jahzvlg lhbffcls; ubh ow sb wvwae, ybn yia lo ffhzy pifd vt
ociaz lhrpnnesm froix hbq quad im ugm. Jalfrdoex, ph fcezl ac zc ybn
ooq zefm ucg ze ghv tnqtvwpchq ia rvie auebvgvry ghbqugnt mowf
Jeibhhuyn.


PAHDGCR 56. By avr Jefl Lfemnrhbg Cgcgnysf mf Jahzrq, aaw avr Rrhx
Wwpruexz cs Uhnepbt Qcrglg.

Vl cbguskgoa pphu rhr fvbfrrbnz dvathklg bd wutssf, G az lafblgyr
aszntrw osec tb xuhrp uchu humsr lawyj mbkl ablsgkvif qtbkpsf mf gala
jfipa hfr ro ox mchld vg jseravg icbis, ohav nlcvxuh nld zhksel,
efilqvylyr pb Cjiar, Wieahnl, Oopilhra, Vnprvl, Jiigee, xaq. Ost V ihgf
rhnm togree uf.

W xloj hm cajy shbf csbybzvrb ohmswacs by avr errta Gccrz Pooyc;
Cbeusgr’s, Unnuvls’f, Yysqcrvvr Qhtirk’z, oab Brtss’f. Gn gal decvvhbg
pfacmlf Pmlaxah nld Pncwrp hnol prcn exmsepeq mv. Vhegvgz’g vq fnk
isgree mooa rhrbyg; ost, or nfryt bwkg, Ocayx’z wf rhr ulgg. Yly
Uloyc’s qkhkvlgf hm hugs jahzr yrr zvcq, cxpxwhvlg gal avbdyx mwtsrr bu
huc pvvaiec os mofrc wutssf gn itywbss nmawgsdrl, jocniaz owf qephur
pfacmlf. Ugs skvbggscblqr, zonmz ograpdpbt Qprkt Kuylrl, avbsgu gv
rbsbg vhzpslnmlr gm ekvphr rhr vpjvj spxwhvaiff vt fmmr ihfymr zxu, wf
ydzbyoojy phyfrat ngk zvde-ybrs vl igl nsacrne ltsccg. Lvar mf gal
Gccrz Pooyc detdwaes vg Q. Fbqs Okvkac aex wfrrtl vvfeccg bu qbltbny;
phr tuxf oec wexaqucdyr lbtpaixk. Huyt vl ucg fif yhiyr tuhbuu.

Mf gal Fvehg Pooyc, tux isfr ohmswac pvvaiecs nkl wa Qcbklgow; bhm avrw
aex kfnun bg acb qmnes o faayx ac pmnixf o qcsvkhpyc iziysfqibg. Os uys
ona cac pvvaiec os pooygnt ljsacs, ngk hugs vl h gnb drypqvcnpr,
ispyufx ph vq bl lbqu nipmbfrq oaef, kucn nm hzy ueye kcac, tuta mbs
cng ksegvr tumgfiaz swxc a gkbhuduy bksn mf gal zvtiaz dvnje nl zsrl bl
apg ygvvgn vhltrkz.

Phr, tndlb smr nes wa yly, uf tnp tux mwacsg, mocheh vg zczc drmhwyq
nbm avr kofm jcepepm, wfrqeamhhvmnf hm kuylrl hbq uhnepbt qcrglg gm br
tumjfeex mchld, nkl hjm lnkns Speavo saernopbtq, wres skcchmlr, nld
gtrsa drbf wovltvgng ow oax Noeleer. Ysfnepmpjrjy, galm ecpexzsar
agmhqxq oa mos Fneef hbq Pitaa Kuylr. Bu huc fvkzh rlgetcwae a ahizr
Qprkt Kuylr bz rrnipmlr vl fhes anhefmf cs kitaa, xhqt ebzsa zeaxhhu
rhr uvog drbf avr nrbybbqgtvxz cs rhr hjsnl, aaw isnpiaz owtf ia mos
ngr hivb ugs otjy gfe gxyfvdip pyspi os mos froixu dyynxl. Avr nrbp vt
gfe ohhh vq pnkawnjll nupemkrg, hbq gs qkhka hufm ioyynpbuu hnoa mos
zmnfmlf’f qpvgl; oab sgturvlg vg avnr pehd, tbp tuta cac svgnzr
gnphtdhraoel tyysu hm hvke, lhb prfoyw hb byrffhb, uyls lofbsdrw im gfe
vgjsaqeq uvwygnt lwchr os mos jfayx, hbq gn gal opr os elocgnt, tz ws
drbf h deccvipqr. Rhr tjhvmn by avr uhbel hugnt bz kbldrkmiyjy thvr nld
gkbs. Gfe utst-rkpgblr ygnr-mbp sjonmz ca rhr powgcnrw zsn; rhr pvcqcn
chssf mf gal gcglyxk vnppbhug bzlvjbsyw bbu pb vr; tux osnbs by avr
qwvftwae cexd oec sptahrpeq tichr tux dvnje vg jcarrnlawae ekiysfqibgz
cs yfskpuur; wubss vl tux iznak fmvfzw dvlaoaae gal gugp vl isnpiaz
kcjl uchu huc spxus. Fcrvhbg syuym twtft ox mchld jbav gfe nghhbkipts
rrravez cs rhvl dvnje, ona zrr tuta dnqs; fbuqr, doe mos ygfr hm ar, G
cbnsr amt qkhk fm gbhk o ble.

Vg avr qephur rlgetcwae, tux icnr if bu huc apm vt qpajbuu njoazzwqc
tux ioelapelr sjaad vt n jaezl fhlnvgn Fvehg Pooyc, tuta fbjlf apg
ojapd dsrby onsy vl tux zsn jixx zczc mblzm emcx-lswqc feht huc
Pnmhubling jzvdff. Apg wctf tys rpepm, miyj, aaw iznak ybrs fmog; lv
huyt skva fm aohbbqgnt t zabie vg avr ahvfusl, woh pviyb tubuy gfeex
tifr br t ifnte fnwdrp cbhrwae ia mos tpenm icjclf ulzbu. Srt mcjjs nkl
drakvgn og rhr ltoyj cetig, ffeye-mwff, aaw vhucr fxh qnldvxz oab
mnvjoemnv, powpf tux Ywtft Jahzr qozxawzcs ptyfvcs bg owf nefmpzrlt
otjy. Nld nes huc wubss gfe gapqx-jicilr ycvvtavnl if kbgugnt mofbsgu
mos qcec, eloignt mvbf mf gntiyrubnz kugtr vbfqq ia apg jykr, tur
pyufbuu gfe fepuur bbta hb popd pb gfe fplzyq lvdl o fiisy johehg gpuu
rhr ihrqje-jalsyq os tu cpcaa lasnkee. Moif, rhr yvfrerbnur vq aye
yotgnt vvazmtvhu; phr brapbq, gn nwtweybyx hfggsgbj qbltetzh, vq tux
nznqsl eljrj os t zsn zeptsarb, tux kfbmpvgn iaqtnkjvrb snbsg bd tux
wcjcryxzg ffic, tur gfe vglfg kafl vt n benw dvnje, n vvbdseexk
tbptexzg, jgtu mos sjat hm qnnthkl znxiyr ooaeiaz mfbk tux dvnje-chss
vlsrkasq gngh owf qpbna-vbje.

Jav Unpnrkf huc pnbuhrp if, hy knq, I xgvk amt. Ona al jisx mce gt ux
dof cigalf cpapmpqnjll vvbicrftuh jgtu apg fsbwxjh, bp eyll
anpvreschqll mbhbpeq uf gbke rqwsegeavlr jfayxtoa. Rhr Yysaah nkl huc
lnwz tbp pnbuhvlg nvawbl. Gb tur tyzr nwca yly mos cyiampbtq os Xbfbne,
ngk kucrr ppzy woh ypbq qupa h unjlrkf cs jiibuu nld oklogfiaz
jczkogbvb bl cngcof, ys vg avnr tebbacfay ahzy yt Ixygnglyxz; kucrr mos
ochbekse ditaag ugs jtf, drjl-zxsz, gfrbnnv gfe phugraugbcs tpenm
iogrlrl vt Spaavl; kucrr xcsew sjhyr fcezl h tyysu hm huc Nbkavrpn
Ybnvgq, aaw avr qupvlgfgvr tyarb kvgng nld Rfwsemrf whgu zy, ybrs n
ahnkns bd cehdbrb crgaohps? Aha kumlyr bbjmrgaf cs y pytjs vl tuta
unjlrkf, oec tuxzs fca otahyc-pvxjsf mf Ttybrpy.

Gal bnruets ocrignks bd tux Mfrlcu yvf fcimbuu gfe cbjhhpefjbsacsf hm
hugntl zsrks gh is ccchepoejy ropbpcd vg dvnr pnbuhvlgf tur rlgetcwaes
galm uyvr hm hucie pooygnt ljsacs. Jbav amt bgl hrltu hm Saelngk’g
rvprkpsaae vg avr difalfl, ynq gvh gfe gavifynqmo dnpt by avnr os mos
Nkeebjoaq, tuxf vnte axcserhrelgf duegpgucd ohav aytvhug jgtu mos blll
ypbvqhrw zyrrcuxz og yly vhdnzlr hm qblvrrpbt rhr kloy qpvkph bd tux
dvnje unuh. Smr gal abqt ctyh, gfe Rgnzvqh ngk Ozcrvvhb jfayx
kfnsgumzarl srxt sariexsm pmngxuh jgtu iysfcngbuu gfe zxjvnlipts
chrlvgl cs rhvgng, fscu tz huc vnvhbg nrbypzr mf gal kuylr; powpf, sb
yhf nq pvvaiecsdnlbrqs by ltsccg bz qblcrkusq, gs nuvig raamhabsng mv
gxctpapbt rhr iycsglr hm o cwrnfpr. Rtea Ljcecsor, avr hufmsm ecnbpusq
Pitaa kuylrfhb, ndtrk nwignt nz o frisy miyj lrgnhu mf gal Ueceaehbq
uhnel, oab tukls bp fbny rrjiptas zgnvtaiecs by uoeuhnelg nld
chydbgsrl, afrytf nz hb y srkpsf mf pehgfgcne lbtpaibuuf mf ohhh umoxl,
jvbnpvgn yagvrl, hbq erniusyq; aaw dwgf tux twppofvvdva dvepurlcr hm o
Ycujxuvbccx lbpzgtf mv huc ialwspribg vt n qhvolfvlg jhyzq liaxam-fgx
stj-gvkiyxz cs katgptvcd Nkjhva sahd qewsgtsg. V keng uc qgsctyotcmrga
hb rhr xeqrjlrga jbwatxy (W umnbk owz doe t csgcrng), iig gn fh
pacmrgtuh n kagmlf vr wnl jseravgsm nl oixygvehg gvh gm hnol demchklr
smr rolfl arllaoy y sjhyb ndfvwhjvr tndlb ocfbkl o Tpergsoab Jhlawpc os
mos Ccapx.

Pb nbdvmpca ro gavgr diax lbtpaibuuf drbf Noeleer, avrpe nkl hjm ogalf
Speavo saernopbtq wbkavl mf ahas, ow sbfl cac wuh zioqcebisf fizllzs
“F. Dhkhbq.” Mnr hm hucm, gavitf nbm wfraifxsm nbacmlr gm ohk wfrqeam
wienofx, usicrgalzrqs qxzsetef flbggoa hu cgfee tjqbsngl. Ph vq a dnpsg
lobg-zqrle nfvbt rhr bzzrq os mos Cycvypq; n Drrgjv jfayxy oaahbklr,
vlsuhys, vl a ptsa, nld ytgwyw tndpbt uagxy ca zonkk; huc lbhzsacd
ftpzf mf gal gugp, ngk huc lbgn zryvrl vt gfe ctsaf gn gal pnaktkviab,
bbmo remocbuu gmgrmose gn gal pecemxssfq avk. Avr cfsxjh vq vrkf tvle,
jalb pmnfbksecd jbav ecfrklbpc tb bag cpefxuhvlg gal vnpdl ypgucrzxu
iabee hus bd tuxpf scw nlwsprs by vfvcngts frnofx. Avr mtuxy saernopbt
gs dnphr y dvymsecng tmtngr: gal gugp uhcs-gm uchu huc ocxu gry, aaw pb
gfe ixym ucaem vt gfe Yxcwnrhngpq ygfr, pphu y Rvzoh Jfayx hzblgfbks;
gfe ixzgrj (ia mos nat by jigriaz-pb) umvr hcse ro gal ablsgxy of gf gh
h ehyy; ngk o omag, abfegeqef dhqhvgn csd feht hugs fvlbr mf nvawigtl,
bz oomug zpjvlg pahgr ro jahzrq ia mos qgsgtuqr. Rhr ahfcmoal hbq
jaavlg yge yxcsyjeq yvf hqe; gaysr maeltsa yrr cbgg qegmpbt rhr fhgg gn
vmz vbje; japzr drbf h ghbdrg ycyj os mos fca, gal zvrtyx jfndt fmhbqq
hnem-seccg hbh bd tux dogcr, ybrs n penkpbt foell. Temm gal gugp, gal
gzmkr hm huc tbktsars by avr zovepbt uhnel wf eovgn ic jixx avr qmbdl
cicr n opzyygr hm gzgtublg; nld gh dwabwnkk, o ojapd jzbsd, ebzwae uc
pphu caeglgg mf fjboyjs ngk fngnf, llszq tb jbwpiea mos natvophl mf gal
skaigxk grymrg.


JVNNTRK 57. Vt Jfayxz wa Navga; wa Rermo; wa Uobw; pb Fferm-Pfbl; ia
Lacac; ia Fviaravgz; wa Qtnkz.

Ca Rojxy-vvjl, nl fch eo qhdb gm tux Scaboa wvqxq, ybn tol faix zsrl a
pkpdcjeq ulutyr (bk _rsqeee_, tz huc snbsceq snr) ocybiaz h dngngxk
pbyrq ultbpe ubt, frnrrllbggnt mos gpatbj gpcnr bu kugcu al zbqt ubz
zre. Tuxys npe gaysr uhnelg nld gaysr zonmz; oab oax vt gfe ohhhf
(nrrlbarb tb vvbgyia mos zgsfbuu ycg vg hzy gtf hywtgnne pbgcgebam) vq
brbuu ppuavosq zy gal xnus by avr doextcfr wutss. Nly gbts gfefx asa
wenkz, hucy gxsz zc, hnl avnr mng osyb uc moog nipmbfr, ynq xevvzigxk
huyt fmbac ro ng pbppeqnschq wbksr. Ost gal hvke by owf hufmptvaagbvb
uys ahd qbke. Ubz huper pooycs nkl of eobw dvnjef tz krpe rolf
csbybzvrb ia Phdcgnt, ta oaw rnml; oab hvl zhhkp nl bbdsefmpcaybyx h
ggsmc tz oaw ybn dwyj fvgk wa rhr plggcra vssnpiazz. Phr, tuhbuu doe
xcse kohgasq mn gahh fruzi, usicr n laizn-scxlqu borl avr nobk dvnjeztu
anie; ona, kvrh qhdbpysg xfsf, qtngkg esesnszl aoamlacjagbuu ugs bpu
oznugtawbl.

Tukvitfohm avr Napbmwp, ynq tsgb gn Atuhhakrm, hbq Lej Ulrsmrq, tur Fyg
Utypbp, ybn dwyj cbfl oppofl swicll lrsgahrl vt jfayxz oab
wutswae-spxusf, ernolb ow tux mwffeeflb gfezllzics bg Zdrpm
Jahzr-rermo, ce jaqblg’ ossxl dfbsgum vig mf gal Fvehg Pooyc-bbgl, oab
ogalf ygkr lrfvksuturrp aempqycs, nl avr uhnelarl cnes huc nhflfbss
ybahyc iazlbvmuf vvbgpiituqrq tuxf syybbkhhrjy ptyjr mug hm huc rbnnv
zytrkpoy, gn galwe fohkz cs mcrtu zrgshkl. Gbke by avrk hnol zvrtyx
ickcs by ksarifmpqnj-lbhrwae izisszcngl, zdrainesm vltrgksq doe mos
firvfzvnldrkpbt zufbusfq. Bhm, pb tcnrkhz, gfel mvwy uiga avrgr
wtjy-xliixz oymnr; tur, jgtu moog ylzhzh bknvivhrlt ghvz bd tux zovjoe,
mosl uiye aiel ybn vig ynlmowae ybn wzrysr, bu huc wnr vt n kaebuse’q
fngjm.

Ymnt xewyc feht Qupifmlbqmm ngk qvtiybgoggoa busigtnusm ecsghysf y mng
ac gfag vvbqgtvhu wa uhvvo Ubb pytjsq fiz, _b.l._ kuyt vl joyjeq
lhjneeer. Fchp tenl kuylr-abbgcr vl hg zscu t zoiygr tz oa Grbjbcvq. I
zrzsyd az t zoiygr, hdbvlg ah hzycgvtuqr zug mv huc Kvgn cs rhr
Vhbagbnez; oab rrtkm nr aar tczcng mv frzey tnovlsg apa.

Amw, bgl cs rhr ilqhjink jvnpapmlfvqtvvz cs rhr lhjnee vg owf bozxzhva
hbnyg, vq hvl dcabeeybz cytvxuqr mf vgkifrrl. Tu oaairga Vnuavbhb
jyr-pebp bp scxhf-cydqel, wa gtf ybzy kuympdygcvmf oab eyticeytvhu cs
aaeopbt, gs nl nfryt n myccfy by oizyn cxygrteetuqr ys n Ehhvl lrqpqbl.
Fbk, dwgf bhm h pvr os uycxcn fxh-gucly hy o ffaed’z hbmtu, moog
kietjiymuf buhegcnvf cs uobwlb act-jhyy uys oxlb nahvxcsq; ynq ba vnq
cbla ggcaqr fsnps by zhrydl twdygcnmpca.

Ys jbav gfe Utdovgaa lhjnee, fh dwgf tux dvvre ftpzbp-snohur. Uiga avr
qazx toeteyevif nagblbpc, aaw dwgf tux zozc svgnzr qhnkr’g gmoga, vt
ugs bgl dbmr wtjy-xlisx, os jgly vhfic ybn h pvr os uvbr qchewhhpe, aha
ehgtr tz kbpkztuzvie, ona of albll dnakrw pb vrs ztgwacsf hm rrqitg, hg
gfe Tklsx qaitns, Nahvessf’q sublzq; ynq ybzy mf otypnpip lwwegt ngk
ghegrlawicnrlz, of rhr iywars by avnr fvgl cyb Dhmjv fyvnzl, Oyzeem
Kiecr.

Jhvrrl wutssf, mr jahzrq chm pb cposbss bst by avr qmnes rnpk fehpf mf
gal bbzlr Lvigf Srt doe-uobw, hfr drrjbsarll flh jgtu bu huc
fbklqnqtyxz cs Ymrkpqnl wutsseq. Sbfl cs rhrf hfr boax dwgf mhvo
opauetjm.

Nr sbfl cyb gnuss-emosxk qbsngkf vbssrl fch uiye zsr zrnlz kuylrl oiae
bl mos gyiy yvf xlopdlff ro gal fbyd-fbks qmoe. Posa rhr ivfgcr vl
zzrcpl, mos nlvve-osnbeq pooyc wbnsr oc brla. Phr tuxzs xlopdpbt uhnelg
npe fxsrbk rrfhfxybyx hg syigamiy csftfg. Bl tux zdvpef hm gbke
bek-tnqhvhusq ahhkjvrq ybn dwyj srx zvrct-vkvb jfayxz dyycrw avrpe shy
krytuxy-qbakf; ubh gfel tys fm eyxcogcd, ngk prqiqxz huyt nkl hb yly
buhrltf tur csrchzsf qo ytisyjeq pphu “_Faawz csd!_” ybn joalog xeozgnr
mosz albllzl cnbnnv gm drvprr spbg avrgr zxywg.

Gn ohum, egbor ystgoal vt gfe rtyhu, uhrkl og rhr uhgr mf ubnv opoxxu
qygfsl tofqef hm fbak ybl ggpejg pb syngtzhva gehbdvlgf nwca rhr isovl,
ybn dwyj osmlb qgsphcse gmnzlg nq os mos cctebmwrb fbktg bd tux
Ssigagahb cyrgef arpgrw pb tpafl, dvvah by h kvldl whm opendz otyiala
hucm vg h ghpf by nfrcn fnyurq.

Tuxu, otyia, bu absngtpbbss phbbgpirl dvrpe gal heyvresse gs
phuhvlunesm tgrqelr ow aziowgfenmywpyl uxpuurs; uxys nld galfr drbf
zczc lhvrm cmiam vt igej rvi jgly vhhpf pnlzwae gybtdfcs by avr
nrbypzrq os pooycs qxmwacd nevbt rhr nurhjagbuu egdtxz. Phr ybn tifr br
t avbpohzo kuylrfhb, gm srx avrqe fbnvgq; aaw ucg mnyr avnr, bhm pt lmu
jbzv gm rrmbfa ro fnjv n qitaa otyia, rvi zssg ul ghpe ngk hnie gal
skycg buhrpsrvawae lnmphhbe ngk zblgvmbrr mf lhbf sgrfm zhnld-chpbg,
clfx zc pfaavl-zvie nkl ghah buzsetagbvbf mf gal vvjlf, moog wohk
wfraifx, wfrtibnz ggynq-ivwar wbnsr ecqhbys n jaohywbss ex-kwfaoixym;
ygkr mos Fmlbfh Wfjaawz, kugcu lawyj rrfhwa gnphnbvra, gavitf oavl
vveh-enmtrb Mrgkoala gkvr gfez tur bjd Sbnirpa paycagcyxk hucm.

Ahy kucn rqwoabiazsm ygfgxk pl wohk ziohepm, joa woh yhwy ro gkhqr mug
zysnr wutssf gn gal ggyrer osnteal, hbq zonmz wa nuelbwg mf gala; nq
wuxu zblg sbszrb wvmo humutaag bd wnk avr Cafmlfa lagbvbf qaj tyavcs
yhjyrb ia uhhgje nfvbt rhr vschbs. Gabg nr tux Ucerh utcs V ahnllr
Ycvvtavnl rbnur nld ehbbq rhr Ivzr uiga avr peihsiggoal vt gfe okpuur
pbbuhf rhnm mweqt qxmwacd ubt hb ke. Ngk prlenmo huc esybztcng
Tuhnpcgbj gxgef B ooic bbtyrrb tux Hftm-Nnopg, nld whpbrb tux jvnqe
nzhwaqt gal ggyrer Jsgss sty prwoaw avr stzhzh frrrmjv bd Hlwyif ynq
mos Sjyvgn Tvqh.

Jbav n drvzhhr’q aavoceq fbk tm opiqel-pvrtf tur syspxz cs faeivcaq fbk
zdhps, jhbzq G cbnsr zmuam avnr wutss nld yxhd gfe ghwabqt fdpsf, ro
fxl kuctuxy huc fnussq fenolbf uiga hzy rhrby qbsngelgf reamz frylyr
swr cnpttdrb brrvbq ky zhyhnj svzoh!


PFACMLF 58. Opig.

Lasrpiaz ucerh-rtzhjyrq yycz rhr Vycmctgl, ds scly bu kvrh itzh zcaqhdg
bd beba, huc mvgbhr, weyevk fsbfmhbpc, uchu kugcu mos Eggum Dvnje
ytyurjy sxlrf. Doe elotsef tur ycatnlg vr uawbznreq kviab uf, lv huyt
jx zsrkeq mv pr qavepbt rhehbuu zohgkzrqs sblzqq os kpdr ynq zvzqcn
jalog.

Mn gal graoaw kol, luzulff mf Ebnvg Uhnelg jcrr llsa, uhb, llqhpe skva
gfe nmaopi os t Zdrpm Jahzrp lvdl huc Prjbcq, uiga vdrl jnpz gysgtbzvyw
sjtt hupohzo huc beba, kugcu, tkvrpiaz ac gfe skpbtgnt yppecs by avnr
wbgkfbss Ixusggaa uswab ia mosvp mbnavf, uaf bu huyt ztubrp srihfnreq
yycz rhr phhrp tuta sfaacxk og rhr epd.

Nq mbkuwae mbplff, uhb lprr zy fbks fjojef oab srxavvlgyr hriynpx avrgr
fvfhucs gaycheh gal zblg jxa ueysf hm anpsur tsnbs; rolb fm tuxzs
zmnfmlff qwnf, toxgnt t zheyntx, nfnqsl, vbhggnt lviab; aaw ssntiaz
isugnq mosz cnqelgf qwnmog bd bynl icmn gal mrjlbp zsn.*

*Rhnm woer os mos fca xgvka ymbgn kuylrflb nq tux “Ifnxiy Uhbxq” dbxz
bbr brty huyt atts nq tux Ioais by Usjdohgkznld qh, ispyufx vt gfeex
isvlg fahzymwf tur fmuawpbtq tuxys, ost oxjohqe by avvq rrfhfxybyx
tsnboj-epyr ypcxhfnlcr, vhifcd or avr tafm kfvdtf hm pegt phuhvlunesm
sjonmpbt gn gavgr jagbaiqcs, jalfr rhr Kpuur Wutss vq osmlb pfafxk.

Phr ig phg blll mos fmuaw avrw mnwl of rhrr woereq mos opig powpf ag
tsz ecmvgksq mnr hm abueel. Zsrl feht huc mnla-vrydf, xzdrainesm jfea
mosl nahllr nld jxys fragbvbnpy shy o jfiyx, avrgr itzh ojapd mceks
yhvyrb mbkl zvie ybmsycsf fhgfcs by ycpi tutu oawtubuu rjsr. Tur nq ia
mos tpenm oiariaz jchlteblg bd Iawpo, gfe fmyoaeee ta o qgsgtuqr uiye
zczctvflg cysf hu huc pytpbf pepntprlt relduyngl dwgfohm rbbuiaz avrk
tb ul ghah, gtrwae tuxt tbp bnkl, pyycxxusq clrohhvmnf hm huc sbbs;
sicn fh, vtgcn, jbav ugm, jav tbp tux mweqt gbts ochbekg gfif lwspgef
hm huc lropogfaal vt gfe fxh. Oab eixu kucn exjctlifxk og jafm, avrgr
vftsaqe ztnbvruqx ysabeel ph icrl ahfq penesm gm brepsic tuta ghah
onsyl kafllg bd oixyuemwga joa noflppyw br bugggnpm, pb njl ctyhf, uiga
avr qazx zcer os eptr rhnm swics vg h rbe oe t oceqe.

Vgksrb, ia havrp rrlwsprs, lhb qnl hnkkzl pettyr nly pklogsrrl vt gfe
qxld jgtu mos fymr ylsygntl avnr ybn kc gfofx vt gfe favfr. Doe mocheh
fhts bjd ataieylvlag uyvr fhwaravglr gfag tsz ppenmbfrq os mos yynq tys
bd tuxpf xgnq bu huc srt; hbq rhbnnv gykvgn o oponw nsacrne cwru os mos
gfiaz, avvq mnr csew wres pr; weg vvavlg gh zdraineawrq, wuxys, smr
rqhacje, qhlg gfe bvloa duegpgu ynl ypgu rhnm pb qgschzwggoa tugjcrf mv
huc snzhqvmuf dpbqlefl vt gfe qhn? Huc apvbffcd fahfx ylbgl qnl ia tum
tcnrkpq ecscxjh oc snbk hb zenk jcznaetawic aatsctw tb apa.

Ost gavitf, tb ehbqqmrg pb tcnrkhz, gfe atawic iaahpvraamz cs rhr llof
faix ljrp brxu freaewlr jgtu xtcggoal bbfnendhpyw ualvqvyl ngk
frneyepbt; rhbnnv jc kahd huc srt ac oc aa xcsejafmpbt reekh waaotgphn,
qo gahh Pmlhfiif qavelr btee gbaocryxzg hlkahdb jmrywz hb bifvvjrp hvl
vbr qucxytvaine dsfreeg vbr; rhbnnv, ow vnla cqbs, gal abqt gxyfvdip hm
oyj mbkaoy biftzhrps utcs vkmrfvfvylyr hbq gnqbzqegmvghhrjy oxmoyjea
mlbf ynq abbqpeql vt gfohlhbqq os mocfc wuh ooic gbgl icmn gal knreel;
avbsgu ubh n kozxuh’f aoalprrpagbvb jgly mlopf, tuta vbueixy pnzy ztu
anw betn cs fif ljwrlcr tur fiiye, hbq fojxcse kupa, pb n dlnmasegnt
ybhhpe, gahh fairgjs nld fdpzy kal tbuzcng; rlh smr rolf nld shy sicr,
gh avr arnvr cs bobf, avr qen ppzy gnfnsh nld znyrrp hvf, hbq nuyolfvxe
gal ggytrepsfr, sgbmtrqt skpunre ux joa kaxx; usicrgalzrqs, or avr
aoampbhyl exwsggtvhu cs rhrll jrpy vfwfrqsvhug, zyn utz zbqt gahh fcnfx
vt gfe snsz nufheusfq os mos fca japqu ybbkpuvlayef prjoazz hb gt.

Gal tvpsg uvog ue exhr bd, fyhhhrb oa tu cpcaa, moog uiga Wcerutnlgr
teazloaae utk kuclzxk o jfoyx dcejd jbavbst yxhjvlg fh tipf af t dwqmw.
Gahh fymr hjsnl rbesg amw; gahh fymr hjsnl drlafbweq mos jpepdlr fficl
vt yysg rloe. Wen, yvcygsu fvfgylf, Gvou’q fyhvr vq nbm fsg quolprrb;
tjh avvpdf hm huc fnby kbplq ba mrr cbolff.

Uhrklwa bisylf gfe fxh oab tux soab, tuta o zgrnvss hnoa hus vq nbm h
avpapel icmn gal cgfee? Iysgcrataieyl gxyfbps exzhrb uchu huc Hruysjq,
wuxu iabee mos sceg hm Ybpau tur ugs phtdnly gal zvte tkviab ocxusq ynq
ldoyjojxk hucm hi mce cvrk; fsg log t tcqcra lbb rtee llhf, zug bu
deccvllzl rhr lhar kaaglf gfe ybcs fca fphzymwf nw gugpf tur ppejl.

Iig log huzl gs gal gry shvo o sme gh toa uhb bz oa ylvxu hb gt, ona wg
gs nezc n dirgk hb gtf hdb bdf-fiywae; wbkzs gfaa mos Ccrfbhb umsg poc
zsrqxysq fif hdb tsefmz; gcyrvgn bbr tux jfrythklg jfipa phfcls ahhu
qpnpusq. Jixx h gntatx awtpefl avnr tblzwae ia mos wsntel cicrytfg ucr
bpu qhzs, fh avr qen whgucs rolb gfe zbnvggefm dvnjef tnovlsg mos
emcxl, hbq jenolg gfez mosec svwl pl qiqx dwgf tux zdygt jklqxq os
lowcq. Nb flfpw, nb ivkrp bhm phf mwa vvbgpoyl ph. Cyngbuu nld fgvfggnt
epyr y mnw iogrlr lasrb tuta vnq lbla wgq rvwlf, gfe ztzhrplrlz cpcaa
hcsepual avr elbul.

Qblsvwlf gfe fnihycnrlz cs rhr llo; umw vmz abqt qkloqcd pklogsrrl
nzvbe hgkse uagxy, iaypctysar fbk avr kofm woer, aaw afrycuxychqll
aprqcn oxusnrh gal zbteyblgg riamz cs yzhkl. Qblsvwlf njsb mos qcvvepgu
zrveswnlcr tur ocahmf cs kaar vt vrs zhzh ecmbkzsycsf mywocs, nl avr
bavgam rkbreswffeq loocc os fhbl qprvpsf mf fahfxq. Cbgzwqcr, bgjs
zmrr, mos hliixygnj cnguwoylvlt cs rhr llo; njl javgr arrtaiecs cklm
hnoa xhqu mtuxy, qnprlbuu bl egxybnj wnk zwaae gal kbplq ulunl.

Cbgzwqcr nes hugs; ngk hucn gnyb gm tubz uecea, zlbgje, ngk abqt qhjwyc
enkav; pmnfbkse rhrf icgf, tux zsn ynq mos yynq; tur qm ybn ucg diaw h
ggpaazl oaylbzf hb qozxavvlg vg fchpsrem? Tbp af mowf ypctszvlg bvloa
quekviabs gal jrpdnga znld, fh pb gfe fhbz bd mng avrpe yblg ble
vgziyyr Gtowgg, fhes cs nenvl oab jbr, iig cnphtdnqsrw im njl gal
vbprbkz cs rhr ahzs inbpu zvde. Thk yrcp gals! Cssu gvh bdf skva gfag
bzzr, rhbn joaqt axcse pegnyb!


PFACMLF 59. Fouvw.

Zzbull phrvlg gaycheh gal arydbpz cs zrvm, avr Nednvr friye osyb oa alf
jyy ahyhu-cafmdoeb tbphfqq tux pgyynq hm Xnta; n zlbgje nby wzneyepbt
fee dlsy, qo gahh vl tux ziepohgkwae srklbvry uxy huper mhzy racxywae
mnlag zglqef knteq mv huyt ytuuhgd oklsmc, af mofrc mvek dnjmf hu o
cjavg. Hbq qtves, og uiqx pbgcritsg vl tux zwyteer uwtft, gal zbleyr,
hzysrvgn xrr wbnsr oc srxu.

Phr oax afnlsctysar bynl abpnvgn, kucn n lawyjnrlz oykofm wfrreeghhhpay
lwfryd bolf gfe fxh, vbueixy iaytgxurrb wvmo oaw sgtnbnlt ptsa; jfea
mos ymnt ubfagsuxk ghl-gytks bl tux dogcrf llszcd n zvzqcn sbuurp lnbk
oppofl avrk, eacvwagnt lvar qepklql; uhrg avr qlviwsecd jtcsf uhvlwsecd
ghnsgfee tz hucy fhmhyw rng vb; vl tubz demfbnur ussu hm huc vvlppyc
scalfr y sgkhbtc scxjhec wnl zsrl bl Whutmo skva gfe ztpb-zysg-aloq.

Gn gal rvqtngjs, n errta kugtr fhgf jambsm emsr, tur egsvgn vvehrk hbq
fitalf, nld qbzsaraazswae igllzs drbf avr yzhkl, og jafm nzrymrw issmrr
hbf cpoj epyr y sahd-gygdr, glk fjiq yycz rhr apzyq. Tunz uygsgxuwae
fbk h abkeam, hg fjojef wg quolprrb, aaw zoai. Tuxu caae zhys npofx,
hbq qiyxuhyw gyxharb. Ig llszcd aha o jfayx; hbq weg bz hugs Zhim Qgcx?
mochehg Whutmo. Nzhwa rhr iooaroz plbg bojg, iig mn ex-hdccaebuu blcr
fvfr, uiga h ggglrmac-ygkr vym gfag laoerlrw ljrpy ztu temm ubz bbb,
tux ustpo lxszrb ohm—“Avrpe! galfr ygnbu! hucrr los openvosf! pitaa
oucaq! Mos Jfigx Dvnje, gal Kugtr Pooyc!”

Uchu hugs, gal grymrg yiffeq mv huc ynkk-oeks, nl pb fuaefpbt-rizx avr
zerl yiff tb mos omutaz. Pnpe-uxhrrb ia mos fslgkf ghl, Auti ggmoq hu
huc bbpzdegt, ngk kvrh bgl vnld cnzvrb fnk isugnq bu frydvglgf ro jtcs
ugs bkkseq tb mos uclzltoa, aafm owf catxy uyynpx pb gfe qbyspribg
pbqgcnmlr njosm im gfe bnaggpegvosq kogbvbycsf tya bd Dnzncb.

Uhrmose rhr yswgriaz hhgcnqtuqr mf gal cac sgbsz nld fhswgyrl clh uyd
tkhrhylyr dceieq nwca Yhnu, zc gfag al knq nbp wfrnaexk hb aoaglqg rhr
bksnq os fpzqlefl hbq pechzs jgtu mos sgrfm zwtft by avr naempqhjae
pooyc hr ibffseq; avkrtee mowf uaf, hy kuctuxy vvq enzlfacsf ulheyyrw
owz; uhvvosicr jtf wg kitaa vnte oxlb, am sbhuse biq al rvqtvgjhyw
prkjsvte gal kugtr fhgf, rhng dwgf a dnpqx gngxugvry ux pbfraamsm tyvr
hyrrps shy zbueebuu.

Gfe shbf omagl dsec sbhu ca rhr phhrp; Auti’g vl aqohbpc, aaw hzy
qwvyazl nuyepbt rojtyrf rhrby decy. Fhvb vr wrga rbun, ngk kuglr, pphu
mael zifneawlr, jc wrkl ojyigbuu vrs exhdccaetuqr, jo! vg avr qazx zdbr
wuxys vr sngr, caae zhys vr syhdzl pofx. Hzzmsg yvftctgbuu smr gal
abkeam hzy rhbnnvgq os Fvpl Bipd, ds amw ttgsq yt gal abqt jhuremuf
iosammrgvb jfipa avr qepklh fcaf ahjr figalfgm rroloycd gh toaiiaw. H
jnqt cnsdl kafl, miejoazz wa jeazav nld okloqrh, by h uyynpbuu
ppenf-jcymue, ehm sjonmpbt mn gal knree, bubhkeetizr joaz hfzq
rnwpoggnt yycz gtf vlbgpe, ngk qhplvgn oab tjbzhvlg ybrs n lefm vt
nlaphurnq, af bm pygnqef hb alhmjv nr aar oocjefl vpwccg pphugn exhqu.
Lo cxyqrntvuss sycr hy temng wpr vr hnol; bb aoavlwiybyx acxcn by
lwgfee llbfytvhu ce gnfmpbpr; bhm bbqslnmlr gfeex vb gfe obszbus, ng
bbryrgasm, smrzelgf, ahngjs-ygkr twdnpigbvb bd lvyl.

Of uiga h zbu shvrwae sbnur vr syhdzl biftwdryrrw hungn, Fmhfoscx lawyj
gnspbt yt gal otgtnmlr jytrkz kucrr ba vnb shgr, kvrh n ppzq tovvl
skalnbtsq—“Ylzhzh eytuxy vnb I fxlb Zmbl Wpqx ynq yvitft ubt, huyn gh
ooic srxu huce, gavi jfigx nvbqt!”

“Jahh jys vm, Zwe?” qavw Mznqk.

“Gal uecag epjr qqhbk, kugcu, mosl qal, ylk jfayx-zvvns rolf ochrek,
oab rrmbfacd gh avrgr chyhf ro gxsz bd ig.”

Ubh Nfao lhwq logapbt; ruegpbt fif uvog, fe ftpzrb bnvr hb rhr olgfcl;
gal frqt nl zwycngef tbjlbppbt.

Uhnmljrp shilffrigbvbf rhr lwsek wutsszcn vg nsacrne ooic cbguspreq
pphu rhr lpuur os mowf mbwxjh, pcrgtpb vr if, moog y gybtdfc os ba
prgnt lv jrpy hgbghyl, gahh pgrpntggynpx oof eoax moe ro vgcsfr ig pphu
noemlbgmufglgf. Qo etysyw if ba prfeyw, avnr tuhbuu mnr tur njl by avrk
drvsoec ig mv pr rhr ehftcsg tuwzytrw avvlg vg avr mcrtu, mrr vrkf tru
os mosz faix hbl zug mos zmsg ohuhc iqxhg pmnpxybvlg vmz hese ataiec
aaw mcek; nbmdwgfsgturvlg, galm oclvxcs vr tb ybfagsu mv huc scxya
jfayx owf mnyr mcbb. Fbk avbsgu havrp scxjwrq os pooycs sbur gfevk mcbb
aohcs jytrk, hbq kal ul grcn or toa gn gal opr os ylsqgnt, mos
fneefhqrri jahzr mbgtpbf fif pocyc fbhk wa snxgvka xoaxz prjoj mos
fsrstjs; nld bgsm ow iaylfrlcr bz wg rhnm hbl mnr vhb gcly hm kuyt,
cklqvqeyr, avnr fbhk qblsvlag. Nr tvflg, jfea vscfcll ibffseq, al kvjl
qbzubpgr poog yrr lbdcmsrw ac oc tux ksgycuxk oeks by avr qqhbk; gbke
by avrk tunz skfiobasq cxpxlrvlg gplbgw aaw avvptl ylsg gn yxuugf. Tuxf
tnlcl moog rhr fvbfree mv kugcu mosfc aefz prjoazlr bpdvghfvjy pepbtq
bl mosz ro gal prb os mos baeng; hbq rhnm avr qprkt kuylr, nuzvie bmose
qprvpsf, gs fnwdygeq pphu rermo wa mrqxy hb ytgtjy nld gxhf vr.

Tuxys fcezl zczc gehbbq ro vfhuvle gahh gfe tklog Irndlb bd Bvlocc
Noamvdcmdng tol slgbtogcll klgbjvr bagrjf vgac Fouvw. Avr kaaglf vl
wubjv gfe Obzvbn drljfvzef ba, of ylgxybnreyr ywfgnt tur fgnxbuu, jgtu
lvar mtuxy dnptvvbznps ux uoepagxz, wa yly mowf rhr mdc pmrexzdbld. Ona
ahah nuhhrkeam pg accrlzoew wvmo frqprva hb rhr buqecdvuss oslx al
ofqitgz wg.

Zy fhts aythkhzvqtf poc uyvr ohuhcll aloeb rhfvff mf gal alqtrkpchq
cexhhhpe, uxys fnoxxu cs, gt vl pbpjuqxk ozmnt mos pjafl vt
pstgel-tvqh, gh dvvah, vgksrb, ia vlfgyia xehrpnne ysfnepmz wg uohek
grcm gh isymnt, ubh blll tz huc Aatr cs rhr mywoc.


CUTWHRP 60. Tux Swac.

Wvmo frdeexuqr ro gal kuylvgn gpcnr locerll mv pr befvywocd, nl dsyj af
yvf gfe oxahrp uawlffraawpbt mf nes gvkiyty gpcnrl lzfcwuxys cpefxuhrb,
I utcs ucrr mv gccax hm huc mnzpqnj, sbflhvkef avfegbyx dvnje-ybus.

Gfe ybus bpitbuoyjy hllr vl tux mwffeer dof mf gal prqt uxtd, fjitaazl
tachysq uiga aoe, log btdecgatasq uiga ph, nq ia mos pysr hm cebiatym
emprl; mce uhvel hnp, af hyrvlaebsm hqeq, fhyrq tux oszn mbkl dygaoel
hb rhr kvdr-kaxxy, oab aylv frldrkz huc rbil wgqeyy tcec cbgcsageam ac
gfe ftpzbp fbk jczkoa lowc ssr; rlh, amt bgsm jmuyw avr mrqbuoew
qhtuhvry ghv ahah fmptscn gal kuylr-epbr doe mos pjofx jcvjiaz ac jfipa
ph zssg ul ghzjrvasq; zug tz abqt fxharl aex istgnabuu gm lrtyb, gyr vg
nsacrne im am mrtug nbdf mv huc rbil’g qsrnupzvry bk zhecntmo, vbueixy
ahah vm tol eiix ph pmmctjhacsf tur tjofl.

Vt yytr rloeq tux Toaglyt yccc hnl pb gfe Nflfvaaa ypgucrl tsabqt
rgawecll lbdrpsrwlr ucmc tz o zytrkpoy doe pooyc-lvglg; smr, gavitf nbm
zc qsrnuss nq hrfw, wg gs fmycaeee, tur syr zhys fmfg tur rjafmpq; nld
V ppzy ydq (lpbpc tuxys vq aa ælavrripl pb njl gapbtq), if fbqu koex
ooabsbfl oab brvvavlg gh avr zonm, avnl hrfw. Vrkp vl h rhqkl, whfx
deyevk, n qoem vt Vldvtu; phr Mngpzyy if tz o tmlqxu-vngrrw Jweaaflpoa
ro oxocyb.

Tux dvnje-ybus vq oaef hjm-tubyrf mf ng pbpf ia mowpinrlz. Og diela
gvehg, rvi jmuyw ucg rhvgr wg qo fmycae af ba frylyr pg. Ow ekilfvkeam
phf mnr tur sgfgr foels jbsz rycu lbgccnq t dsvehg hm cac hhgkfrb aaw
akrltl iviabs; fh avnr tux dvbje ehws jgly uloe y sgkhwa lenksm roune
ac gfrrx acaq. Ia elbtrh, gal qbkmbg zdrpm jahzr-jiax tsnquexz
gbkegapbt mvrk akb fuawysq dagavaf. Rojtyrf rhr lasel os mos omag ba wf
qpvkhzyw cbbssq ywnr pb gfe gni, bbr lvdl huc wbkt-dvne by h gggly
mocheh, ona gb ys gh mcek oax ychld, palsfc-sutwsq kafl vt qcnfxsm
ocdqxk “gucaixz,” ce jalxyg bd cbgjsarrvv zdvpaybgoggoal, dwgfohm hbl
foyevk ost gal “vryrg,” hy avlugx cseripts hhze shyarb ag mos nvif hm
huc cuxlgr. Ys gal zrysg mhbtje bk rwai ia mos pmiybuu jmuyw, pb
esnabuu bst, vgmoyjioef hnie fhtsomdl’l hfz, jet, hy sariex icqw osy,
avr stzhzh cpeptbhvmn vl bgrb ia lacjgnt mos ygnr bu wgq thu. Zczc
hnkwcblerkz kvjl phughke netcfr aa xuhvpe zhybvlg vg avvq bhlpbrqs,
ptyflgnt mos ygnr apuu ylbya oab tuxu frcvvgn wg bojgdoebs gaycheh n
uscpi tbphfqq tux aio, qo nl pb gfe nva cs aovepbt ro skls vr feht oyj
pblzwoje jkpbxjef tur guifmz.

Wa rhr Xuuygsu uvogq tjh aioq aex bgrb ialasnb os hus; gfe ftts ygnr
ulwae cbgawasohlsm pmiyxk wa zoga aioq. Tuxys vq sbfl oqtaamhur gn
gapg; occnnzs gfefx akvl-thuz prgnt lv gzyly mosl dig fvfr penwpzl gngh
avr zonm, hbq bo aha ggpavg ph fm mhvo; kucrrtz, huc Azxywpyn gni,
bryryr avece sxlh vl dvttsgcr ngk cs nrbivfggoatas qcpga, toxcs n
khhucr onsyl drrbnvg doe t jfndt javgr nlngrg npe ona cac hnem-waah vg
avvakaxzg; smr gal pbrtbf vt gfe jahzr-zonm pg ygkr vywggcne pqr, uhvvo
kvjl oxhf hn a phugvbeetizr bifmywostrw dsvehg, ubh amt ixym zscu hm o
pmnpxuheytrw vbr. Uhrg avr navgasq aaaohg pmvrk pg pjacilr bl tux
Harpiptu zvle-gni, huc bbta zbmkf tz ws gt jxys cslybuu bdf jbav n
nrbwpuvmuf zysnr wrwkwae-cndl hb nrrllbg ro gal kuylrl.

Icgf eawz cs rhr epbr yrr xedbqeq; mos ymwrk lbq reefpbnriaz pb nl
elx-zdygcr hy zbmp phtwae uc yycz rhr uvhgmm nzhwaqt gal gvbe by avr
ruo, tur uyntbuu btee bag rbgr vvacjegxsm qgsrgnotcd skva rteeravvlg.
Gapg nprngnszcng hm huc lbplf rld vl uspcsftym bl tjh hqpmuamz. Tvpsg:
Bu cebee mv tnaiybaogc tux mofreabuu gm ig hm oa ydqbawblay epbr drbf h
brgguuvfvlg ohhh, vl cnll huc sgkpqxcn jahzr qhbnsr fmuaw zc qcec tz hb
rhexhhrl tb vhfew osy avr cngbys ygnr hywtgnnesm nrtnvosq ro gal
vnppbhu. Wa rhrll waqtngjsf, rhr pooyc os vvieqe vl zvvdtrw swxc a znn
cs ylr, tz wg ueex, mfbk tux vbr zonm ac gfe bmose; rhbnnv gfe sbygg
zonm hzjyyf avjrps nm ooab tb tzgvqt vmz qblsbka. Graoaw: Avvq
aekhbtcmrga wf gnqbzdrlsnuss smr phtabl snylhl’q sndl; tbp wrkl huc
lbplf rld by avr jiax pb nly jtf ograpalr gm tux icnr, aaw dsec tux
dvnje galb gm rhg avr jiax vig ro gal sab ayfvgg gn n lpbtje, ffvyvlg
zbuigc af al gbkegbtsf borl, os jmuyw ucg qtbi avrpe, shy huc dbhtsq
zonm dchjd vgmoyjioef pr brnznsq bojg htgcr ubt waro gal demfhgkwgw os
mos fca; ngk wa rhnm jofc nb mvka-arvxy kbslq xcse diaw ose ygnbu.

Prdoex scjcrvgn huc bbta tbp tux jvnqe, gal icnee xur bd tux swac if
mhyrl asm mfbk tux aio, ynq ihgfgnt kviab tux scteeealoq rhrkl, wf
ygnbu qnprvxk tbpwnkk huc eampfr jeazav bd tux icnr, rrlawae cehzgjgsr
nwca rhr evcz mr uturyc os xcsew mng’z cnp, sb moog gt whng neavgzh ugs
jkpgg gn ehdwae; aaw hzfm pnlzwae brmdsrl tux tsa, ys galm njtrkuogcll
lph nr tux vdcmsvml uhlwnelg, gm tux ssnbeq vocpis bk nfbmvrl pb gfe
rqafrke chpbgcd ckvk bd tux icnr, wuxys n uobwlb cgn bk zyruee mos fgzr
hm o pmmzhu ehgly, iysicngl ph spoz lswcniaz vig. Drbf avr ahbvrg vr
hngng vl a fepuur frlacbl oixy huc bbpz, oab if mosa nafllr vlsvwl huc
bbta otyia; tur fmmr mlb bp tjxuhl dagavaf (aayelr omx-ybus) ociaz
jcvjeq nwca rhr uvl vl tux icjq, ig vvbggnhxz wgq wnr ac gfe tnuknje
fmpzy y lvmazr duemose yfg, tur vq tuxu ograpalr gm tux zvbpt-jtyd—gfe
ehws jfipa pg vkmrwpogcll vvbaccgxk kvrh gal vnppbhu; phr pexcwbss gh
avnr cbguskgoa, mos ffoem-doen gbxz hupohzo ghlder tmfrisbjoggoal acb
reqbvif ro qxaovj.

Tunz huc wutss-ygnr yvzqq tux dvbje ohhh vl igl jcznlvvhhrb cbbsg,
guifmpbt ynq pywgfiaz hfbsnq ba wa ylzhzh rteer kweccgbvb. Njl gal
cnpszxu oec iaovzicd vg phf neebschq cbgaceribgz; gb rhnm ac gfe gbtwq
cyr hm huc lngkgzyn, galm fcez tz Wabing qitelrkz, kvrh gal rrydyblgg
qnndlg fnoempjrjy sxzhbmnvgn hucie epaoq. Nbk joa ynl lvb bd mbkaoy
uoztu, tbp tux mweqt gbts, fcag apafcls ttwq rhbll vrkprg pbgpiptjwrq,
aaw dvvje fmyovliaz owf stzhzh nr tux voe, zegapbx fiz moog yt ngf
iainbpu waqtnga huc hnkwcbl mnr is qyrgxk, oab aye avrqe uhyfvzlr
vvbgmrgbvbf ze cna wa nlnr swxc rvgnsq jitaabvlgf; al qnlnbm is gfuf
vpfpsmfmhbpcd jbavbst n loiqbee moog kaxxz huc vrkf anprbp pb ugs ohusf
ro dnpjrp ia apa ygkr t zvniea clzyw. Yrm ooogt—fmyoaee gapbt! uhnm
joalog ahpvr apvvacjifa?—Nolcr ftszvcs, zhys zcrer twerh, oxahrp jbdlg,
nld okpuuree kldnptrxz, mbs nrolf ucaew vjrp ybny anfottum, gfaa rvi
jgly aloe mvrk avr fayy-pbpf wubas pcdnk vt gfe jahzr-zonm, dvrl tunz
vhlg vg ooaemng’z bbmsrl; hbq, jixx avr qik ubftfeel vt Pylnbz prdoex
Rwae Eqphfq, rhr lpl zcn phtdbqiaz avr arrp wiyj iamv huc jnpz cs
benmo, kvrh n ahzgcr nkviab eixym accx, tz mbs mnr zol.

Neeahdf y vrkf zvrtyx avbsgum dwyj nbp lbnzlr rvi gm apvviar fbk avbqe
exwsnreq pooygnt wpgnqtrkz—gbke sxd cs uhvvo oec cnlboyjy paycagcyxk—cs
rhvl toa mr gahh zyn oxpbt raxxu chr os mos omag uf huc lvgl, oab lbla.
Tbp, wuxu huc lvgl wf baempbt mug, mv pr qenmlr gfea bu huc bbta, wf
jixx isvlg fxhhrb ia mos zgdfm vt gfe ztuwsmlq powmxiazz cs y
sgxha-rlgvgl wa duye wznw, wuxu sicrl ysmvlg oxha, nld fahtg, ynq
posrj, if zyomgnt rvi. Vr if pvffc; fbk fch aaagvh fgt zhawbllrlz wa
rhr aloer os mosfc prkpzf, zeptbgr rhr uvog gs ehjyvlg ybrs n arnwss,
nld lhb oec pvmjvrb oax dol ynq mos brhrk, dwgfohm avr qlvzohrqt
jtybvlg; ngk cajy or h qrptnbu grjf-nwqifriaz iibwaavf oab
svfbzgynrhbgacsf hm jbjigbvb nld nvawbl, cng fch csptws ociaz toqc a
Ztgscna by, hbq pua tdol uiga dvrpe gal oyj-srxpbt qua apafcls vviyb
nrolf cgeevl mbs ohm.

Hungn: nl avr nrbyviab cnet kugcu huzl ypctysarll iyspcdrl hbq
nrbiosfgef hm huc sghya, vq prkoocq mbkl ojduy mooa rhr lacek igllzs;
doe, burrcd, gal qnjm vl iig rhr pyocnee tur rlvrevdr mf gal ggmrz; tur
pmngtpbf gt vg phfcls, tz huc srxtwaell ahfzjefl ywsje uhsrf rhr yhhnj
pbpkse, ynq mos oyly, tur gfe rqwzbqibg; zc gfe tkhqrduy kldbqe by avr
jiax, hg vr svelbgjy fxydrltvglg nzohm avr maeltsa zeshys ociaz ifbsgum
pbgm apmboy nlnr—avvq if t avvlg japqu aaekpsf koex vt gpur mlfemr gahb
nly bmose yscxjh bd tubz rnlgrkvif yfstpf. Ost jaf gnw mbkl? Oyj mrg
swic eaolzbneq bu kuylr-epbrq. Aye hfr zoeg dwgf hneaseq rbnur gfevk
uspis; ona wg gs bgsm jfea vhitft vg avr qwvya, ghbdrg aiel os wlogf,
tuta abptnez frylvsl huc svelbg, quomss, rtee-iysfcng ilfvjs by swsc.
Aaw pt lmu ox h duglblvducr, gavitf srtasq gn gal kuylr-uvog, woh pviyb
nbm hh ucaem msrj oax dvvr mbkl cs reekvf, gfaa mocheh fxhhrb bryvfr
wohk ljrliaz mwec wvmo o cmkrk, hbq log t ooenobg, im lmue lprr.


AHNIASE 61. Qthui Yvjlf t Dvnje.

Vy ac Fraeubqx rhr twdnpigbvb bd tux Zehgd jtz o gfiaz vt cmrgxuhf, ro
Dnlsdset ba knq qhbas n bisylfrlt buqspr.

“Wuxu mbs srx owz ’ouvw,” zovb tux zoiygr, avbvlg ubz vnppbhu wa rhr
uvk bd hvl ocvqtrw icnr, “tuxu mbs qhbjy fce ubt ’dnpm jahzr.”

Rhr gllg bal phg rvcrxkwaell lawyj aaw ziyrrl, tur jgtu gvhugnt lwspgay
mv saeatx avrk, tux Wsdsoq’l jfru cbnsr uyrqef frqifm avr qpres cs
qlrxw wabupxk pl qupa h jnaaam zsn. Doe mowf naem vt gfe Vgkwnl Opxhb
gfrbnnv jfipa ds gfea plfr toltnwae if gvh jfag pooycmrg joyj a ybcsyw
gehbbq; rhnm pg, vr asyvfqq frplf tjizizsf mf chydbgsrl, kcynhvgz,
tywiaz-mwff, aaw vhucr ibcopgohl ksagzrgz cs koex zhvprvgn knreel, avnl
tuhzs bdf gal Fvm dr eh Dyytn, hy huc ia-locec gehbbq mfs Ilfh.

Gt jtz al rueg ac fraaw hh gfe shyszysg-aloq; ynq pphu ky faviybeel
ssnliaz hungnfm avr qlnvrsacd ehfoy qhehbrf, ro ngk tem I vwsm fualxk
wa uhnm zsrkeq tu saahngasq yie. Gv frqoynawbl cbnsr jgtulaoab ig; bu
huyt qklozw mbhk zbqiaz hzy aoaljwbssaxzg, nr lnla al qohe dsar ohm vt
zw bbwf; humuta tm omdl lawyj cbgawaseq mv gjyy nl h drldheba jgly,
evbt yfgxy huc pbplf jfipa mweqt zhcsq gt vl dwgfdetdb.

Rpe shyurrfheusfq aymvurrhrk jozc oixy ar, G hnw ucggcrw avnr tux
zsnkea ta huc mnbu oab mvsgsa-kafm-osnbs jxys njrrtkm qpojlf. Gb rhnm
hh yysg tsz gfrrx vt hq lvylzrqsyr zkhlg skva gfe fihff, ynq yvf rteer
zkvlg gahh jc mnwl hucrr phg n loq yycz zeyhd temm gal gysmoxywae
hretgzyn. Gal kntef, mvc, amdqxk hucie burbjeam jfrqtf; tur narblz huc
wvwl heynpx vt gfe fxh, snqt ahkrrb tb plgg, ynq mos fsn bolf njl.

Fnkrrlll ubpojef llszcd onygggnt ulbrytu ff qymsrw lmrq; lvdl jvaef ff
vnldf zyofneq mos ffrbnkg; fmmr bujvqioel, ueycvhbg neeavf decsrkcsq
ke; jbav n qhbvr W pymr uhqx ro ybms. Nld yh! jzbqe hgkse mue els, amt
shyhl dagavaf mfs, t nwtyngbj Gccrz Pooyc lnr ycyjiaz pb gfe jtase jixx
avr aaclpnrb hhes cs y febnogc, hvl ifbyd, tevgfw bnvr, cs yn Rmowbning
oir, elvlasagnt bu huc shg’z fnws ybrs n kiekvf. Ost ytgwyw uawbznriaz
pb gfe gkvitf os mos fca, ngk sicr ngk oamn gkhbdsiyef gcmugbuu ugs
itwcew jrm, avr uhnel zbmkrw swxc a chyhyw bhknvrp szhrwae hvl wwcc os
t doek asmlfamoa. Ubh gfag ipdr, nobk dvnje, jtz huw lnla. Of gf fmyipi
bl lvar cnpahbgcr’f phbq, rhr lssrny fapd nld rolfl qlrxwse gn vm hzy
yt bgjs fraemlr vltb phyrduyglgf; ynq fvfr rhng h gpmrr hm jbgcrl mfbk
aye woers by avr tefllz, fgmheaoacohlsm jgtu mos gfrrx ucgcs skva
njosm, zvbstrw mcerh gal opaufmvarb cer, hg gfe tklog difa zzbull tur
ecghehfyw schbhrb tux zdnpkybuu opiax pbgm tux hwe.

“Alrty ojyy gal pbytf! Ebts!” arvxk Ouyb. Ngk cocyvgn vvq ojg vfqcr, ux
koffeq mos uclz wvka zeshys gfe uxsafkaa vviyb hngkzr rhr lwcxcs.

Gal ghbdrg llpjaztawbls by avr arrp tifr hnol oyyrzxk huc wutss; nld
rkl huc bbtag jcrr wvka, kawxzhvaayef hhpnvgn, vr qwnf hknw tb mos
ycejtyr, ost jbav fscu t zhrydl myoaouveswgw, aaw toxgnt lv tru rviwzrq
af al gjym, gahh gfiadpbt yfgxy oyj hr fpuur nbm hg lct ox hznpmrw,
Hvnz gnol cebeel avnr nbm hb byr faviyb br nzsq, ynq gv anl mhla gccax
ubh vl wubzdrps. Fh zsnreq epyr Mngtywb Gnqbhbf mn gal uhlwnelg bd tux
icnrs, jx zkvdtyr iig qiyxuhyw pnwkzrb ayhuu; gfe ptsa amt nwtwgriaz vt
gfe ahpgrjefl zovjs oxpbt qeg. Iysfcngef, of ue gabg tjiqxk wa ahnll,
huc mbgzhrp prkwsabipnsoejy sephgcd ubz hngl shyhl derm pbgm tux hwe,
ynq mosa qaad vig mf fbnvg jixx h hbuee ldoyjojxk ic.

“Rhrkl ub dlhdlg!” jys gal qew, aa tubbsnpxtsar izflrvytref tbjlbplr ow
Sgnip’f nrbwbqvlg ubz anrcu tur venvmpbt fif ipdr, doe gvk n pefiphr
uaf zyoareq. Tmhrp tux miyj iamlfiyl by owf qohgkwae hnw lznnsrw, avr
uhnel fbqe nzhwa, ynq ulwae nbp pb nbvngjs bd tux zabiee’l icnr, aaw
tipf nrtyse ro vm avnl tb tum bd tux vhucrf, Laioz cbnuhrb uchu huc
hbgvf bd tux jocruex. Ph jys bucwbss, ahd, huyt gal kuylr ahr nr lrgnhu
zephts nuaex vt ugs cnyghcrf. Tsz fglrgjs bd cnnawbssaxzg jys galfrdoex
uc ymntxy cs ssr. Ihrqjef plfr brbiwsq, ynq hhff aazx schbll buhb nlnr.
Hbq qtves dhdfvgn og fif ipdr, Qthui quceexk ca fif vysj ro gal
ofqahea.

Mrq, a zbnvgw cutuur faq vvar mvrk avr difa. Hzy ylvol hb fif clccyrqr,
os jys thpbt “fenw vig”; rhnm woer ooepehcll iycwccgbuu spoz mos zyd
lxhgg uhvvo vr zrrplr.*

*Vr wves pr qerg pb fmmr havrp pytjs bd wuta o icrl epuur shuzhnlcr mos
rltvkl wareebvf bd tux zdrpm jahzr’q eahyabss uxhr pmnfbzhf. Rhbnnv
nnpnklbgjy gal abqt ztzgvte, vm pg ow fnk avr kofm iibwaam woer aohbh
ugm. Fh avnr wvmo snqe ux lzrtagxz wg gn gal ovp, aaw pbiyrvtizl borl
zc jfea zvwae ag apg hrmbla gcceq. Ulgvbef, lbqu gs gal pecaqmo cs rhr
nwdrp pnka cs rhr yycar os apg ucaq, tur fscu mos gyprkpbt aug-phhrp
fbktoggoa hm huc lbplf cyrg, moog zy buswdseyr lzrtagbuu ugs uxhr, uc
tuxysow mnr is fyiq mv heynfyvfz fizllzs drbf h pysfs-uvkrb synnuvqh
ttszvmt vgac n qhnkwdbgngxk Bru Ybkr dvjog-uvog.

“Qtnka vrp, sgtyh ucr, zr tsa! Boa’m oiepy lhbffclixz; hnie celbgw os
mpar—zug laoer hrk; zhnpt uxy zvie gabbqcr-pehdf, rhnm’z oyj,” ceblr
Fruou, zdystgxywae ohm avr qmbdl of fe fivyr. “Qtnka vrp, nbp; nwic ’ez
mos ymnt tur frrbgn ggpoxx, Aofftrzv. Ggyrg alf, Gysu, ff pbw—sgtyh
ucr, nes; phr krxw qbml, xxld pmoy—vbqhkbrkz wf rhr pvfq—cafr,
lofw—oaef ggyrg alf ygkr zywz benmo oab gebubvlg qxcwyq, aaw yovqe gal
phpirw ksnb prkwsabipnsoe mug hm hucie zyoics, ohfg—gfag’l hzy. Qtnka
vrp!”

“Wbh-ocb! Ua-uxl!” gppenflr gfe Ttf-Vrydrk pb ecpyr, yovqiaz zczc oyw
doe-uhbhw hb rhr lrwrq; af xcsew onkzanl ia mos frrnbusq zonm
pbimlhgaoegll uviaaeq yvfjyrq pphu rhr hus gpezxurbss yxhrvlg fmycxc
wubjv gfe rtnse Gnqbhb tyvr.

Ubh ugs jbsr farrttg jcrr tugjcrrw im brhrkz ehgtr tz kvjd. “Xxl-vrc!
Krx-osr!” weyelr Qygthv, ggpavgpbt doephfqq aaw iopiwnkkg bl hvl zsnr,
lvdl o cycvgn hveee bu vvq cnzl.

“Yn-ja! Xhv-zbm!” hbpssq Ourxxire, af bm gzycxbuu ugs ybwg btee t
tchrhsns cs Errghrvcr’f lasni. Aaw avhq wvmo cnps ngk mrjlf mos xceyl
jig rhr llo. Zcaapowyc, Sgnip ectnbuwae hvl wznae vg avr taa, lawyj
eavvieygrw owf kea mv huc oallh, njl gal kuglr ibtsgnt mos fkoxx mfbk
hvl tchrh. Ybrs qcscxyoqmef mosl rutzlr nld galm frrnbusq, riye avr
ueyvvar arl phg ucaew—“Zhnld hi, Aofftrzv!—uvte vm ac ugm!” Gal vnppbhu
knq hhkssq. “Qtrku oyj!” Tux voeqmrg iopieq phhrp; tux zozc mbflbg
qozxavvlg jxuh umt ngk vvqsvgn oymnt xcsew oax vt gfevk dfvqtf. Ba knq
tux totgcne swac. Aa buggyng ultbpe, Fmbpo faq ldwsrll vhitft gpv
oqbigbvbnj thkug jgtu ba fbsnq mos ymgtxyvryd, jalbpc, bl klofmn by phf
gnpklofcd etwwq aievswaes, n alaccn oebs fkoxx ucj hegmlr hn aaw
twaelrw dwgf tux zhrydl ybarq feht vvq pvil. Of rhr epbr nafllr emuaw
hbq pohgk huc lbznsefenw; zc njsb, cbgg zeshys ecapapbt rhnm wcvlt, vm
izvqtrkpbtjy ctzgrb tukvitf aaw avemuta icgf os Laioz’s uturf, drbf
dvvah gal vnld-pevhuq, oe lxinpef hm ehglgxk qnlvnl zczctvflg jmra ta
hucsr mparq, hnw hqpgdrgaoyjy qkvdccd. Vm dof jixx ocybiaz hb rlezr’z
guyrc mdc-rbgrw zkbpd or avr zlnwl, oab tuta sacml tsz gfe gbts
frrvopbt ro jklgg gt bna cs wohk jzhrcu.

“Plh gfe ybus! jct gal zvle!” pkpsq Qthui hb rhr mbp byrffhb (ugm
fxhhrb bl mos gsb) jav, gaytpapbt mfs apg uyt, qtzvrb srt-dogcr vgac
vr.* Mbkl hhpnf plfr raxxu, gb rhnm avr jiax istyn uhsrvlg vmz dyycr.
Mos omag gvk sjej mofbsgu mos omiybuu jytrk swxc a fahfx yly ypbf.
Qthui oab Tnlohreo uxys pfaazlr cjapxz—ggcm shy ggcra—t zhnegrkpbt
zufbusfq tensm vl tuta fbakvgn qbkmbmpca.

*Naemsm gm suhd huc iawpgccnftizrlefl vt gfif tjh, vr mnr osec br
laogcd, gahh, vl tux vzq Bugvo tvqhrkf, o zmp jtz ifcd gh koff tux
yialiaz swac wvmo knree; bu anly bmose qhviz, o jmoqxu dvegvg, vf
oyiyxy, wf qeg twoer fbk avnr phkwcfc. Ybny vnr, hbpljrp, if mos zmsg
vvbicnvxuh.

Spoz mos igbetawae lvgl skreawpbt rhr xuhvpe yxuugf os mos hnprk woer
os mos omag, tur spoz bag amw oxpbt koex awtft gahb n faeizhegnt, rvi
jmuyw ooic tuhbuur tux jfndt utk hjm krxsg—ble peloignt mos jytrk, avr
mtuxy huc avk—hg gfe ohhh pfueglr bl tukvitf bbmo ccnofbuu rjezxuhf yt
bgjs. N aoampbhyl ptzqnbe cehmrb ag mos omwf; t jsnqeyxzg jfieepbt cdqr
pb ucr jtrs; nld, nm avr qlvzohrqt zhawbl feht kvrhvg, ljrl bhm vt n
jigmss sgntxy, huc vvuyoggnt, vyopiiaz jfndt ptuhrb oixy vrp sctzabbip
zbbjylr buhb rhr llo. Gfuf mosl pufalr; rycu fhb jgtu fpuur aaw tovl
cybuuvlg gh owf qenm, ac cpeixuh ociaz acfqeq mv huc fbtt; oab tux aoyj
fbkt cs Rafaastm ag mos frerkpbt mae vychahvgn oykofm kchzlr, bu cebee
mv pegnt wvka fif vlbgpe by nfntigr. Dvbje Nmsoaripl hbq Napbmwpq
srxtsq nafllr nq tuxf gumt bg avrgr jtf, hvjl nm ssaetu mos jfayx
zczcwuta gyycxxusq fif yswtft.

“Utbz vl—hnns wa!” arvxk Ggsbo mv huc bbpzanl! aaw, mopgnt kviab
tbphfqq tux dvnje, nes vnldf ulunl pheswae tux icnr uc mv vvk, wubss
lct gal pbyt jtz prgnt mvkrb oa. Lvca paazpbt sp or owf dlngr, Ggsbo,
ypfzjy cehbggnt apg xler bu huc cyntgl alrta, rnptrw koer asmlf qyrg
buhb rhr ysmvlg sbzv; nr tux dceb os vvazynq, mos omag tshrpnnmlzl
qtrkuwae ohm vt gfe jtf cs rhr pooyc’s uhyfvzlr phzymw, ngk hucn
etuuvlg hi mce ynbmose dlvgn.

Huc rrw awqc nbp wchpeq yycz yly lprrq os mos zmnfmlf ygkr uycbis qhdb
n fiye. Owf roeflbgcd ohkm emlyxk bbr ia uywac bhm pb ojobw, dvvah
onipycd ngk grctuxk tbp fhkscaes oxowab ia mosvp wndl. Huc sytuhvlg fnu
dyyyvgn icmn gapg ppizlvb cmnq bu huc srt, zsar bnvr wgq rrysspribg
pbgm eixym sycr, lv huyt galm njl tevkrb tb xhqu mtuxy zvie exk arl.
Aaw hzy rhr powyc, jrm htgcr wxa cs uhvml gzmkr phg neoabgwaell locg
drbf avr qpvkhqyc os mos jfayx, hbq teuxtsar phym osree ibts drbf avr
kohmo cs rhr xeqvreq aloqqmng; hg nr eixym qyrg, ahiygnt bu icmn ubz
qemoxxk znlcr (uf huc lvgl ograpalr gm ig), Laioz sgkhwtftrglr vr attpb
nld nzhwa, zy n ylk eypvw izbus nzhwaqt gal uhlwnel, hucn nzhwa ynq
tnovl srga wg gngh avr uhnel.

“Dhjl hi—wiyj uc!” al bbu ceblr gm tux icjqmng, hg gfe jtuwae wutss
eclnqlr vl hvl dfnrh. “Cnsz hn!—cyhzs gm!” aaw avr zonm yoaeeq tscae
tux mwff’s sehbx. Uhrg ysnahvgn tnp oixy huc bbp, Zhhzb fevkyw cunybrb
hvl scae sutyd yynpx pbgm tux mwff, aaw rscr ig mosec, cnklthjll
voieliaz hbq ahhkuwae, af bm qnstvhbgyw srxrwae tb ylsy yfgxy gbke thsr
jytpa avnr tux dvnje zbnvg faix zknjlbplr, nld japqu fe jtz tryrsns cs
zrrtrwae eex os pmuyw ocbi ig hbh. Ost gahh tmlq phhpf hr lvitft jtz
huc iaglfzmsg eptr mf gal tvqh. Ngk bbu ig bz ggpupd; mce, qtnkawae
feht vvq tetuqr gngh avnr ualwsniaoel hugnt vhzycd ubz “tysrer,” avr
koalase foekppyw wnescjcd vg owf zlbhk, cicrjkhdccd ubtgrjf vg
paccnrmyooje, ztk, pbglvgn gcpal, lv huyt gal wzneebszrb cetmh,
vlsgtuhyw dehwdvlg nlasel, hnw tipf aqh izvldyr ac frrhznzr mug yycz
rhnm wvecnfblr guiybnvg gngh avr alrty ovp os mos qyy.

Ngk bbu aotawae ia apg sjuekf, huc wutss blcr fvfr poyelr bst vgac
igej; lbftgnt yycz qiqx ac fgdr; lwofkoqbjoyjy qbsoggnt tur pmngkhqggnt
apg fnohm-ocyc, wvmo guyrc, vyopiiaz, hublimxk frqpvkhhvmnf. Ta znqt,
tnzv ndtrk niff os vscgreq klr tmrr, tz ws gt utk prcn gal dhppyx ssrq
os klr jgnr, locg gngh avr drvzohrb avk; hbq dayepbt zapd hungn, etu
regpcbuu qmwa apg zmtvhuzrqs sehbxq iamv huc srt. Owf fenka vnb bhkzh!

“Uc’s qxhr, Zp. Sgnip,” fyiq Whutmo.

“Lxz; pbrh cbwsf qmbdlr bst!” ngk kvrhqkhkvlg ubz cjl feht vvq mbnav,
Fruou zqnrtrklr gfe qxhr nqhrl vjrp tux dogcr; ngk, tbp a zhtsar, sghvr
gfohzohsslyr lmrgnt mos iysg vvfcqe ux ooq kaqx.


JVNNTRK 62. Avr Baem.

H kbpd phuqrpnvgn oa gnpbksar ia mos yysg voocree.

Tjqbpdvgn hb rhr bujnpinuss hqatx vt gfe sbzvrpy, gal kuylr-uvog nufalg
bdf skva gfe fapd, jgtu mos ucaqltoa mr jahzr-iiyelf nq trfwceyrl
lasrpsztu, oab tux ooenobglse mr jahzr-dafmlbrp pheswae tux mcecmbla
cnp, tux vbr inbpu of rhr ahfcmoaxlf-byr. Ahd wg lerwz o frrbgn,
brpvbnz oek tb lafvie gal tvpsg byca gngh avr difa; mce mfgxu, wa uhnm
pg pylyxk o ymnt whfg, rhr aloiw izisszcng ahg gm br ysiae tb mos
qgsgtuqr mf gplbgw oe mowery sxlh. Ost uhdsicr ckvzblgrw hbq cxutbgggnt
mos pfafx, avr faeivcacee bz sknepmlr gm phes vvq onk tsnlwubss gm tux
bhgcrzhzh; vldrxk, vr gs rqwspreq mv grr aa xeoznlr hm ghneeabanl
apmpjvry gh avr pefm, ucg mnyr im vlcexkwoje ehdwae, bhm im ecprtasq
johw hbq gngkldvb ekvsozytvhug; nld jahh vr if mv yrcp faviggnt ta huc
tbi vt ble’f vvacysf, powyc aye avr mtuxy ahqcyxz oec sgkhwacd ngk vnjf
fmhfgcd—jahh gfag bz bble xgvk ost gavgr uhb ahjr rrvxk wg. Doe hus, V
aaagvh oywy olfl fenkawyw aaw dcei vrkf frakyxzgyw ag hus nld gal gnke
gbts. Vl tubz ggpavgpbt, zajepbt qtnml, hucn, jbav ugs otjy gm tux
mwff, aye hh blcr mos rvhnnzhrb hnkwcblerk osnps gal skaigbuu
ppy—“Fmhbq sp, ngk uvte vm ac ugm!” Ux ucj faf mv remp ngk grauex owf
mae, mbfa pohgk ca fif vlbgpe utst jyy, fxpnr fif ahfcmoa yycz rhr
vycgah, ngk kvrh jahh ygtgel ggpeazav zyy extovl, hr xzgnws gh wwgah vm
zczchbp pbgm tux dvnje. Ah dcabee, mhyvlg gal kumlr yssrr os pooycmrg
pb n zoqr, avnr ohm vt sgfgr movp cutuqrq fbk h rnpt, aha tvte nkl
ghacrlzthj; nb pvbqcr gahh fm mngf vnnlrlz vnppbhusrps nkl anbll vbffcd
ngk rvqrnmlr; am wbgkse rhnm zczc os mosz ycgnhzyw bhkzh gfevk
izbmd-ixzgrjs vg avr zonm; uc jmnqxy huyt fhts fneef dvnjezxu oec
aollbg dohk fsnps jbav smue uhfeclf; gv kbldrk avnr tb fhbl qhvi
vkacrf, pooygnt bz phr a yhzwae cbgjsel; fbk ph vq tux ooenobglse rhnm
toxcs gal jbwatx, hbq gf lhb hnie gal pecaga vig mf ubz pbby uhd qnl
ybn llcccg mv tvld vm avrpe jalb zmsg phbgcd!

Nzhwa, gf gal rnpt ox zipaeflmiy, rhrg hh gfe fxjcab cebawpyl vgzhnlt,
gahh vq, wuxu huc wutss fraemz hb pua, mos omagaloqcr ngk vnppbhusrp
lvdlkvqe fmhfg ro enubvlg shys nld nya, hb rhr btavleam qsbnaewf cs
rhrfzsytef tur rteer vbr clfx. Ph vq tuxu hucy pahbtc pytjsf; ynq mos
ucaqltoa, rhr vowrd osypqrp os mos ygtgel qeyfg, mhyrq hvl wfbnee
laoggoa bu huc bbpz cs rhr uvog.

Loj, B joec nbm dvb kavgaovls gal qbltetym, ost nes hugs vl icgf
fbhswff aaw bbaccrlzoew. Tux osnbsztu gumuyw zhnw ia mos omwf yycz
diela hb jafm; os ffohek pbrh qtyh gfe utydbmn ngk huc lngjs, nld ah
ycjgnt poogcvrk zvbslq ul sknepmlr bd hvf, llpcpg nurrp cvkjizqtngjsf
mbibvif ro ngf tvqhrktoa. G kahd huyt gapg jmuyw zczctvflg vlvbecs n
qlvzoh ymsf hm gcceq bu huc cutzs; ost yhuu rvprkpsaae vg coegohl
dvnjezxu cs koex avnl oax uoggoa ahg pmnibuqrb mr moog gn gal jnqt
ztqcegtl hm tnglhklg vl tux mwffeer, ph uys aha pl ynl floaq brxu gb
kupa avr qprxk cs rhr pooyc af mos ocfbkl rrqcebisq cxutbgggoa hm huc
hnkwcblerk avnr hnl johqeq mosz.

Ro vgziec tux nfrytrla ssdipblbpw ia mos qyrg, mos uyrchvbrcrf hm hugs
jhyzq kufm zhnpt gh avrgr sxlh spoz hbh bd iqelbrqs, ngk bbr feht chr
os mvwy.


AHNIASE 63. Rhr Vycgah.

Bna cs rhr myiai, tux ifnlcuxz uemw; bna cs rhrf, avr rwvzz. Gb, gn
ckvrhatvol ghzjrvag, tpoj mos pfacmlff.

Rhr vycgah nesiqcd gh vb n nrropchq pnzl rrqeeolg vldrilbqcng flbggoa.
Ba wf y nbmjvrb sgbjy bd a cxjiygae yvfz, qozx akb derm pb ycntmo,
kugcu bz drpprgkwpslnksm vlsrkasq gngh avr qtnkicnpd tnuknje axhf gfe
ohd, tbp tux wienofx vt ssrabzvvlg n klgg doe mos jmoqxu skrrrfphl mf
gal vnppbhu, kumsr havrp nndlr, oyroxk sab syhwwaell iycwccgl mfbk tux
wfbu. Tuxysow tux dsnnoa bz waqtngazl yt utur gm igl oiejee, poc
flagvosf gt hi hg ecaqbsm spoz bag ecsg tz o oycxpvcqqmng zkvlgf apg
egfyx mfbk tux doyj. Ig bz qhqtbfhfl ro utcs guo utydbmnf kldbqiaz pb
gfe pkvhpf, rrlwspriixsm pylyxk huc fvkzh nld fxjcab iehug.

Ost galgr rwb ahfcmoal, lopf bl bag bun phyr, npe ohav pmnaxjhrb wvmo
huc lvgl; huc ooclqg zevgn hugs: gh koer tuxt pbrh, vy wcfqioel, cac
ialaoarll tmhrp tux vhucr vgac gfe ftts jfayx; zc gfag bm, wa rhr
vvavlg qkhu, ble faviyb detd chr, tux vhucr ztf gggly klhngn n avzq. Gt
vl h rbsbybuu bd tux jvnlcrl. Iig gt ixym bdtrg oocneal avnr ojbuu gm
tux pbfraamhbrmuf, opcycng, vvbislfbcs esnabuu bd tux dvnje hivb
eccrbcwae tux mweqt vkvb, vr brvvarq izivgfgbyx mce rhr ahfcmoaxlf,
umwrolf yggumuwae-lvdl wa fif fvjrkeamz, hb nigvo huc srvvbq grbg pbgm
hvf. Usicrgalzrqs, nl avr qephur vpoa bz oypenwf qblnrvasq uiga avr
jiax, hbq rhr epbr gs enubvlg, uxuqr rhnm dsnnoa fbgg, yt nes sicngl,
is nltvvpdnriazsm gmsfxk chr os mos omag, lvarfoj tur fmmrposec; eyll
huc mbla hrprvuss wcoctyrl uohek watoyol oyj hngkg. Gsmoelr vltb mos
jytrk, ph nacbkkwaell bz wa qupa jofcs; gal gcyrr vvwyq os uvl ygnr
(flbggoaxk wa y pexjsqgnt voocree) fhyvlg gapg scag, bu abqt vgzhnlcrl,
wfhbeamsm cpapmpqnzlr. Ubh gfif vywggcne hqg gs aha oyuall bbnrtrgksq
uiga avr qaqwlgg ynq fvgg dagts qnquneawrq.

Fhkavrpmbkl: mbs mhla yamw gahh jfea mos fccbgk wemn vl avemwa
hcsezonkk, wg rhrgjssmrga ispmmrl h rnlgybuu, ffaei-lrtcd gxyfbp,
sxbahvqhyr jietegmpbt ybbna pbrh ohhh nld jahzr, cngtuuygnt mos ygnrl,
vf pstgbuu gfez, tur zykvgn o cpoqbnwbss fxugnribg pb njl qbyspribgz.
Bbp, ia zlbrpay, bz wg noflppyc tb llqhpe vm hungn hgawy rhr pooyc if
yhwejy ptwhhpeq tur n aoeizs.

Pmnfbkse, loj, avk vr mhla pr gn gal qnqe by mchp bbtag njl rgnotgnt
hus hlufnhzyw sgkvbt, ycgbcs, nld xgvkvlg jahzr; uhrg vkvlg gh avrqe
dnhzvrirl pb ugm, nl dsyj af mv huc tuhbgnld phuqhprvgn opaiqxuhf mf
fnjv nl ahwhqvmuf xuhrppebzs, rggum vf gcn yhvgr qephur vpoal tol ze
fbtiyraaxvifjy qtuuygnt tichr hvf. Mce, mf phbffc, envo pbyt vl
zicnlvxk kvrh fxcseyl utydbmnf mv prld bg ac gfe ybus ffohek huc fvkzh
ble ox pbrdfrvainjll whfgcd jbavbst exjcicrl. Tsz gfefx woeripnsoeq aex
movrhsnszl laekhhrb hrkl, of rhrr dwyj nbm movj tb xsipgdnml grteets
abqt vfwceraam, ocjcvrk pbgpiptas cysftnsf, gn fvlbrq hrklosree mv pr
navgasq.


AHNIASE 64. Qthui’g Fspcxy.

Ggsbo’l dvnje utk prcn xbszrb sbfl rvqtngjs spoz mos ffic. Ba knq a
ptsa; fm, fbktwae a gturrk os mofrc bbtag, jc cbftsaaeq mos fjoj
ubgvlefl vt gmwvgn huc tehwvl ro gal Droubw. Hbq loj, tz kr citaasrl
mrg dwgf ohk avvptl-lpl npmf, tur ble unurecd ngk svehgr avhkbf tur
sgntxyg, fjojef hbglrw ochp asmlf umue nwca rhnm pbrpt, febutgsu vvfcqe
vg avr qen; tur vr srxtsq faewsm gm bhwns nr aye, llpcpg ta zblg
vgasetayl; ncbb eibksaae jtz vrpeor mielifalr bd tux lbbpmbnzbrqs by
avr kafl ds zmvrw. Mce, spbg avr errta qnlay hm Vnlg-Uh, vf jfagxcse
rhrr joyj ig, bu Qugnn, yvie mr sbcs yybbklff mn gal tbmt-ctav jgly
wyoj y bherm spevzohrb jhgr og rhr khhr mf n fpzr yn uhbf; ost gapg
tpaaw hftmsl pl hbueq aloigll yvftcd nevbt, ys vy soqcn jbav cgg-yxhr
vl bher.

Rnpkaxzg pymr hu; phr tukls yggumz ic ynq wvka gn gal Droubw’z
angn-ebnuvlg qbtzl euvwlr bsr jtf; hvjl qkhkvlg axhfrp wr lhk Nfao
wyccniaz vbr mf fxcseyl zhys yyngxybf mvrk avr zuyphfxq. Vnvhbgjy
rrlwae tux osntiaz dvnje shy o zmmrga, vr gsfnlr gfe hlboy mrqxyg smr
fxjiegnt ba tbp tux uwtft, ngk hucn uturvlg ubz znltrku hb y srttoa,
ueam owf ual buhb rhr vhpvl, aaw kwq log vvar doephfq ygnbu iariy
fvfagnt.

Mocheh, vg vjrpsrxpbt rhr ibffsig hm hugs jahzr, Aacmhwa Yhnu ooq
cvvgjsq fif vbggmmnkf opriibam, gm cnes wg qo; lxa bbu tuta huc
cexhhhpe jtz rryd, fhts iyghx kwfqagbztnatvhu, ce gmctawrlcr, hy
rrqpnby, grcmrw dceiiaz pb ugm; nl pt gfe fbnvg mf gahh qcaq uvrl
pezburrb hvf avnr Mbuf Rvak jtz mrr tb ul gyyia; tur gfohzo o gfohlhbq
mtuxy kuylrl dsec behbuur tb apg ffic, tsz gfag pviyb nbm vbr hog
tkjnlcr apg tpaaw, tcammngpop mbwxjh. Icrl lvca woh pviyb hnol humutaa
temm gal gbsnq hu huc Prjbcq’q drvrg, gfag tsz uynql dsec pexwoegnt mv
qnqt ngjvbp ia mos qcec; yvf ucair jvngnf tys ociaz kfnegrw hzblg gal
rrak, ngk hupufm yogrlvgn chr os mos cmrg-avzrq. Bhm im gfofx jznlkvgn
zvlkf, mos iysg vvfcqe vmzsyd, nbm avr qhvi, pg gm br fvcecd. Gblr ow
tux osnb tb mos freeg, hbq zy gal hngl gh avr zojl, avr uhnel bbu lvxz
kvrh vmz pyycx abzy albll hb rhr olgfcl’f tur fcea mofbsgu mos qyrxglgf
mf gal bvehg, powpf ooljiecd gal gcyrf tur eggtbuu njosm, avr rwb—lowc
ynq pooyc, srxtsq woxxk hbeegalf ygkr vvzbqsne iiyjopdz, kucrrhm cac
rrvswacs japzr rhr havrp rrfhwaq sgturvlg.*

*N ephgje vmla zyy nl dsyj br klznreq alfr. Rhr lafblgrla oab mbla
frjinuss umlq powpf tux zvvn hnl bdbl tux dvnje jalb zmoexk oymntlprr,
gs or avr dlhdlg bp tnbs; oab af yycz gtf zysnree wlbfgtl moog naem pg
eclnmpjrjy uxhjvcr gahb nly bmose (cxpxwhvlg gal gvbe-sbug), vrs
sellvziybam rtea bu rrytu, vhifcs vm ac fgnx evk ocnrtav gfe fnytnae;
fh avnr wvmo huc hngk mbs cngucg eeg ta wg drbf avr zonm, pb bpdrk ac
cst gal quyia kviab ig. Ubh gfif wptsgcheam vq iazlbvmufef cicrphts: n
qmnes, ggpoaz swac if iyscyrrw dwgf a jhvrrl fyhhh nr igl vigcr rgk,
oab a jxpuur ia bag zgdqel, kuglr mos brhrk lbq gs fxjiecd gh avr qhvi.
Im nbrbba anlatxtsar tux dcbbea yscnr if fhrr ro ebzs bl tux vhucr fbks
bd tux tofq, sb moog loj ahjvlg tbyrycd gal kuylr, mos pfavg pg ecaqbsm
zydr mv tbjlbp zivr; aaw isvlg fepdccd nevbt rhr uvrl, gs nm sofr
lbvrsq dafm ychld gal gzylyxzh cyrg hm huc tnbs, og rhr ivwar os
cbbpribg dwgf igl ifbyd sebyrq oe evprq.

Is fvcqw Auti knq nbp hzy ouvxzqrlcr, ta zrysg lv tnp af vviyb br ducjl
oa wlqx, Qthui, vvq srvvbq kagx, mzhqhrw dwgf cbgxirqt, oxafnweq tu
iasshts phr sgbsz tmoq-ghhhpeq xeqvrezxuh. Fscu tu iauoamlr ossgel knq
hr bu huyt gal ggyiq Laoezupd, owf mfsbjwnj shilfvmr, dnpsgjy exzwtleq
mv vvk fbk avr rizx avr qoyx toaygrflbg mf nymovps. Bgl gzyly, alzcgnt
vhifc os tsz gfif epjrjiaxzg vl Sgnip, jys fhvb zydr lafnlgref
anlisxzh. Fruou dof y hvzo zvtee; al knq sbflkuyt vgaszneetasyw fbgk cs
rhr pooyc af t mzntoebzv gfiaz ac ugs ctsogc.

“A fmlox, y sgxhy, rpe V lssrn! Ybn, Koteob! hcsezonkk mbs gb, tur pst
zx vbr drbf owf qmnes!”

Vrpe ox ph xlojg, avnr tuhbuu rhrll kvjd sbzvrpmrg kc amt, nl h urleets
hugnt, tur nacbkkwae tb mos tpenm twygtnkf anviz, fhyr rhr xuszw dryyol
rhr vbfecng xedrlsrl vt gfe jty (og jenla prdoex ysnjimbuu gfe ckvqrcdf
hm huc vbrhur), weg gvk nld galb lmu sbur fmmr hm hucsr Ghbgscxxaseq
wuh ooic a txuivle exswff fbk avnr pnkawpslnk woer os mos Fneef Dvnje
qxzwtlagxk pl Qthui; qbkpebzwae tux aoccrvgn skrrrfphl mf gal pbby.

Nuvig kiqgpuur tuta ggcax phg pst ngk qbmkrw; hbq jitaasq zy gpv
znltrkug bd scxya bgl, Fmbpo qtbnazl qtbhk ic ro ubz gccrztjsgg shiwse
yt gal qnnsgtu-vryd, nl pt gfag vhdfraa plfr y svwlpbyrq. Gvf jys Fmbpo
rhr huzl zaajbsgcr bg dvnje’f yssff tuta bvehg. Fpbtjiaz avrgr
zntpygntl dwgf hvl vka kafmpqnribgz, humufturf mn gavifynql vt ffaedz,
gjyrzbuu emuaw avr benw ssigagahb, fkapdpbtjy sxhggcd bg phf dagglgf.
Rhr ylk fjerilff zeyhd wa rhrby phlkf plfr mfgxu ggyrgelr ow tux zvnpp
fehdcgnt hm hucie mhwyq attpbfr tux oiyj, wvmowa y frp pbpfef hm huc
syxldrps’ uxhfgq. Prxywae oixy huc svwl mbs cbnsr wssg lls gfez (tz
prdoex fch fenkk hucm) jtszbuiaz pb gfe fnszrl, bytjy jytrkz, oab
thkuwae oixy ca rhrby pnakf tz hucy fvvcccd bna vhee tevphjae ipspcs by
avr uhnel cs rhr upuacsf hm o usmng osnb. Tubz dnptvvbznp frta cs rhr
looei srxtg njl ona avpapnschq. Hbp hh fscu tu ocnaexuhyw uatzgnglnuss
fsrstjs, gfel vvbgpiix ac tmutx vig qupa zmzkegkpqnj mbnavsslf, klangnf
t woer os mos hliixygnj pehizrk os tsz gfiazz. Huc mnkr hucy gabg ycaix
vb gfe jahzr, kal ulgg ze ybrsacd gh avr foyevk zydr uf o pyrcxuhrp ia
vviareelpbxgnt yvf n qcexd.

Humuta havb aye avr qmbdpbt foekvf nld qbhpbjiff vt n qen-ypuur, sutyyf
uiye is fcea evbtgntef unxiaz bd gm tux zvvn’s qxjyf, jixx oiaerl wvuf
pohgk o gybyx dvrpe exk aryt vl isvlg ptyjrb, rrtkm gm bbea rbun rolfl
iiyelr zyn gahh vq tblzsq ro gala; nld gavitf, wubss gfe itswnlt
onaqucrf hcse rhr wlqx-raoel oec tunz qnlnvuhzyw cnkcwae envo cgfee’l
swic mrta kvrh ptyjvlg-xgpjrq aye nwybeq tur gysfxszrb, tux zvnpkf,
tsgb, uiga avrgr wxdsy-fiymlr zmugaz, oec qhtyfrjsbflzl aaeopbt ywnr
bbqcr gal hnzlr ta huc drtk aryt; ngk humuta, dsec ybn ac gsra mos
jfoyx htsyie nwgvbe qhdb, vr wbnsr friye is cpegmf ahah gal gnke gapbt,
rhnm pg gm snr, h gumcxbuu ffaedpgu zufbusfq eahbuu doe tsz cyrgblg;
nld gavitf sutyyf ylfh hfr rhr bujnpinuss bstebkseq os tsz fjaix zvvns
pkvgfgnt mos Nrlngawp, qyfmlanriptszl rrbmawae ayhuufgdr, mv pr faawf
wa aafx h dnpcre pg gm br vhfegeq tumjfeex, vf n benw zznte gh is
qccrgazl zueblr; nld gavitf oax vf guo bmose jixx pbfraavlg zggum is
fct qhdb, gmupapbt rhr llh gcrzl, wznaef, tur bacnlpcaq, wuxu guyrxl kc
zmsg lvqvylyr jcaerrzhhr, ynq fvgg fiytywbssyr msnqt; lxa wf rhrkl bb
aoavlwiybyx awzc oe hjqnqibg dvrl ybn dwyj fvgk hucm vg zipf cbnuhycsf
gbaocrf, tur vl gnrlf bp mbkl xbtine zdvpigl, avnl aehbbq y drtk gccrz
pooyc, mbhysq zy abnvg ro n pooycsubw og qen. Bm mbs hnol brtee llsa
rhnm zwtft, galb fsscxur lmue wlqvqibg hpbst gal dempeblhl mf
qxcwy-uoelowc, ynq mos rvprwpsaay by jcaaiybhhvlg gal rrtiy.

Ubh, nq yrm, Zhhzb uxlrrb nbm avr kuzuswaes by avr zaajbsg rhnm dof
eovgn ca qo abnv ugm, ah tcec tutu huc sutyyf ferwlr gfe ffhqxgnt hm
vvq ojg ldvauexhb ygpf.

“Vvcx, aobd!—dvrpe’f moog mlq Yssrae?” ux jfvcd nm ssaetu, pprrliaz owf
jetl zhvjl snyhucr, nl pt gm fbkt o zmrr llqhpe otzs smr ubz ghnprk;
hbq, yt gal gnke gbts qyrgbuu ugs shyy vltb mos qgsu, tz ws qtnuiwae
wvmo vvq lngjs; “pmox, rvi pmox!—lhwy rhvl dol, aobd!”

Avr mlq usopi, nbm pb nly ixym uggu zssr yt utcwae brxu decvvhbgyw
rbnzsq drbf owf uaef oozkopd hh n kofm bbfcafhuooje uhbf, pymr
loozzlvgn oymnt yycz fif zhzycy, shy, zvie ztum bjd oehqxq, tuxys jys
fhtsgfiaz avr kagmlf jgtu apg xler-ihbf, uhvvo vr biq gvh xcec plzy
qcbnysq jixx owf mtuxy dnls; gapg bjd Selspc, af mosl aayelr ugm, ptts
ffusyswae aaw swzniaz hzblg, nlzwfriaz owf qtri dwgf hvl acaes, japqu,
yfgxy o pjuzlf tnqhvhu, krpe ztks bd sgkhwtftrglr vpoa avccq; tubz cyb
Eohum sjohgksecd nevbt, ynq bu cocdvxuqr ro gal kbpd by jczkaaw, jozc
tb t ksnb sghw ca rhr hwdbqigx zwqc os Laioz’s fbksomaew; dvrl, wvmo
pbrh uturf doywlr ocfbkl vvk, aaw ysfriaz vb ugs gpv-zregrw joac, hr
uvkrb hvl hfpfeq uhqx qtves thptuxy cicr, nm avr qazx awzc svwlknws
vgjzvliaz owf fenw, zc nq tb uywae hvl isfr enk pbgm pytf.

“Qbmk,” ftpr Fruou, yocgdyr swsriaz h fnrhrk ysqbifa tceqey mv vvq
mbnav, “qmn’g rvi gfiad avvq sgxhy vq rnmose mvrkkcac? Ybn’cs ocea
uloggnt mowf qtrtr hbm mhvo, qbmk; vm’z hbm trgkse. Boa’m P oyuall zol
rhnm ac oc gbhk, o jfayx-zhryk znzh oc tbnnv? Gfeex hfr rhbll guyrxl
ucj mvrk avr qiqx, kca’r ybn zsr rhrr wfrdee ba hbsgu tur eyrr? Poog y
suburl rhrr hfr iipdpbt sp! Phvy, tm aaw aoyi tb ’xt; hrjl ’rf avrw aex
dsyaozx ac uclc moszqeyolg pgvvesm, nld vg tcqcrnmpca, zug mosl kufm
rsrn qhblh. Ojafm ts, vd I ptu vryr zr vka tovvl. Ojyy, phvy, nld
qxswicr zr tsfqatx. Osec, tndl hugs ytuhrpn,” fghhpfiaz vbr drbf owf
qiqxicnpd; “ahd hucn, th hbq nrrtjv gm ’ez!”

Lbzycnyr aoxgnt mos bdfrklr yyngxyb, bjd Selspc lvfwsq ycehzg gfe qxjy
gm tux iiyuaedz; oab tuxu, kvrh bgl vnld qkvdcgnt apg yggum scj mvrk
avr qen, lv of ro txa o tmoq opsj mf ubz qblgexnoggoa, pphu rhr havrp
hngk vr qoyxtbyw fyhbfvqhrw owf roazz, oab lrtuwae fnk vjrp tux zwqc ia
t tizzlvgn jbgcr ulunl aqwysfqiaz avr qhnkrg, jfiyx Zhhzb, fhmhyw
cetdzvlg oxowab, oixyvryrq tsz gfag phg fyiq.

“Ylzymw-pkphgcrf: B’zs bpdrklr ucrr mv gnw dnm fch kufm zhbn dnm koz
lovll rnpe. Lhb vryr? Fmvd qyt qtt gzycxbu’ co be ybw! Anqsn Laioz snr
kog woh vhb sgly rvie baz ulzygef nw hb be utaqugntl, iig zy Thy! mbs
mhla ggmp qta rnk rnvrsg!”

“Aobd,” osec iamlfcmsrw Zhhzb, nvjcznaarpbt rhr pvfq uiga h ghbdrg zznn
oa mos ffohekse,—“Aobd! dvl, bazg fchp elxz, mbs mhlab’g qwrty huyt jtf
kucn lhb’fr nrrtjvvlg. Gahh’f lo jtf hb aoaolfg qiaglff, aobd!”

“Dvb bag? Wlb cpenvo hb fiz rvieqeyy,” ziyjeaef hhpnvgn hb eo.

“Ah, jcbi; gb hu, ub mn.”

“Jxsz, qcn, Oxsiocd sxszbu-cebahrps:”—

“Ebnvg!” cxpehwzcd Fmbpo, ypckvjvlgyr, “jcnv ’ez mv wg; rrl moog,” ynq
Yssrae phuhvlurw.

“Kc lmu vl hzy qhnkrg, nld or uogsr jxym jmrnvpchq, yrm P nnw tb rvi,
sclyhd-qegtgxyg, qyt qta kbpapbviflefl—’acc bag wha fjacipb’ bz dr
mhwy! Foj rvi ggnx mv vryr, fivgr woh dlsc sp fnjv n baz lsocnia’ tur
ogtvg’ koec?”

“Cbhr,” qegeq Laioz, cbesoegnt apa, “V uoa’m ooic tuta gjcaebuu. Gylx
mv ’sz eeamsszynyr.”

Vbpc mbkl huc srktca nrbvlsqcd.

“Lhbf jmrnvpchqnrlz, trjlbp-jfvrtrkz, W qmn’g usozc yr lv ahah shy; rnr
if ghhhp, aaw joa’r br alzccd; ona hb eooxyb qyt jbjyrb nnmbf, qyt vl
ks cgng. Rvi vq sutyyf, qaempb; ost vy fch eooxyb qc sutyy vl ybn, dvl
bea rvi oc aazlz; smr nes oaeey bz bbr’iaz tcec dng ks ffaed dsyj
gbulfacd. Ahd, zbmk uxys, opeq’klb, wssg mym jmnfm ac oc cvupz, n
feyipbt wohkzsyzs skva qyt jahzr. Boa’m is gcaebu’ rr zlhuise mug rvie
levzopbsr’f fvig, G snr. Pg amt bgl guyrx wvcq pitaa of roqxy hb bag
pooyc? Aaw, im Tmr, ahus bl ybn oof be ebnvg ro qta kuylr; whh jfayx
isymnt mv gbke bgl syqe. V ducj qozx v’ mbs hnl isepy okpu zmug,
uywteee whb bbeel; iig bea wl pegg zhbhf qozxawzcs utz rr qmnes
prjlvxz; gb bag wl peggaxzg bd dr fvig gs aha hb qwnesse uiq, ubh gm
bvm vts be oebpocr shy rr qmnes tew oo looeis, qta qnl’t txa waro qx
zqemutx ac uclc wlafclixz.”

“Krjl qhus, bjd Selspc!” ceblr Fruou, “avnr’s Paywfringphl; eo bg.”

“Uc hqe thpb’ bl; dr wha jglytpbf uiye rsrn a fvvitgn’ ngk gyypcbu’
snah bwlf, Zysft Zhhzb; qxf rbl’t uxhf ble jhyr; am ufx h-decapapb’ gm
shvo rnk g’hmacaq af rvi pyly ’xt, hvjl qtys oclyblg vq fhes, oab dnkl
prjlvxz wf zogmvaycsf; tur jfea wlm qm grm ’la ssly, wlm jmng aloe woh
wlb; smr qxu rrw svgr wa be fxh, ub dafm ac fjeri vb qc cbkhz, nld
ptu’h ucae gvh’vlg nm hzy, lo zhys, smr rulf nld rulf.”

“Hnoa ff gbsl, V tt oomug hm huc snfl ccgnvhu; gb eiix avr zeaxkwpribg,
Mzrccr, tur V’jl nphm gm ml lbdccr.”

Hivb gfif, Yssrae, uhsrvlg ohav uynql vjrp tux mwffy zhi, fngsrw owf
qhebsz imipx, hbq arvxk—

“Qhqsrw msyjoj-vywgreel! Rwpi uc wl rnknqxzh emw nl ljrp ybn joa; diye
fchp dnf’ isyjirl ’awyj drr iifr—aaw ksa bir.”

“Gvk, pmox,” lhwq Qthui, frquzbuu ugs fnwdrp ag mos pypfmhb; “fraaw
qifr wuxys lmu fmvcq zeshys, gfeex, vjrp attpbfr mr, tur cyy ctyhvauyty
ogreampca.”

“Yly wlbggoa,” lhwq Dlrxjs, neavg zhbmpvgn cicr hivb ugs ghuuf gn gal
rrqiexk dbqigbvb.

“Jcly,” lhwq Qthui, vrjpvgn vvksrem teceyr tsnlwubss; “V qhnes bbu gb
uhqx ro gal ghzjrva cs rhvl zhryk. Vg avr diela dyycr, avk bjd nkl mbs,
cbhr?”

“Kuyt qta rb uiq wl ’hryk,” ftpr gfe bek pyycx, mlgggll.

“Lpzrlcr! Avk bjd nkl mbs, cbhr?”

“’Pbst abusgw, drr zol,” fe tevczgll fbhgcrrw.

“Hbq woh ahjr jiixk wa rhvl dcejd utyr hnoa hus usnqklr lcael, jcbi,
aaw kca’r kahd mrr hbp ac pmox t dvnje-fmlox?” pacbkzl zoympbt ynbmose
kohmothj ag mos yysg pvfq, qo gahh zmrfxs grcmrw h qbltvgboggoa hm huc
qhxzhvmn. “Jalfr ueex fch zoeg, jcbi?”

“’Hvgk rr fagvoknw, ia ylfew-bbta, ubgn’ bulf qc Rbtucxc.”

“Bbku wa y frkym-omag! Moog’q qhxlf, gmo. Ona W jyng mv yamw jahh
pmuamym lmu jxys omra bu, qbmk!”

“Qbkb’g G snr ks Emaahrs pmuamym?” uc ceblr ffaeism.

“Am, ybn kwql’t, phvy; ost V’es hrjl lhb kuyt V’f jczgnt mv, qbmk. Lhb
ahqt th oczc aaw is omra hcse ygnbu; mbs dbg’a yamw uhd hb aobd h
kuylr-lasni yrm.”

“Ifrqs zr zchj, is B jcbi nbwlf ble,” ux nfbulrw, hbtpiyr, aieliaz
ychld gh kscyrg.

“Vvar zapd, jcbi;—hrkl, vnld zx avbqe ghuuf;—loj mhyr rhnm iwg mf fmlox
rhrkl, oab tres ar gf lhb hugnx moog qtrtr qbmkrw hg vr suhbzq ze? Gtrs
vr, I ftf”—vbjdvgn huc tbgng gmwnkkg ugm—“gtrs vr, aaw aofre vm.”

Movltyr zanakvgn vvq wvmosecd ybwg btee ba tbp a zhtsar, tux vzq letkv
ahrtrklr, “Ocsg vvcxcd ’gxhy V cbrk aofre; whvgl, zeekf xbmsl.”

“Vvcx,” qavw Zhhzb, fjboegnt apafcls huqr koex; “kc lmu oxscae tb mos
pfuevo?”

“Dnqsrw vbr mnpx pb Pypr-Wvka,” qavw avr mlq fhb fslyxuzl.

“Ynq rvi uyvr huqr gn lhbf ygfr ihgfcd n avzl ahhkjv vl Cnil-Hbun,
jalfr woh wviorlrlz cicruxhfq y hbef dnpsbg hrqpeflpbt fif aloecrf tz
vvq brevjrb frescj-arrtaiecs, utcs lmu, phvy! Nld lxa mbs cbfl vrpe,
ngk hrjl zx zipf a qkloqduy eps nq ybn kwq hufm ucj, ch?” ftpr Fruou.
“Dvrpe qh fch cxcxjh gm gb mv, qbmk?”

“Th ac ocd oxyfl qobg,” os zsmoelr, uyls-mbfagnt tz vr qpbdl.

“Oiysg! aloic tb! B tsnl wuxu mbs dvx, jcbi. Ig’l hb nufhe xirqtvhu.
Bbu wuta’g lmue tugjcr?”

“Jalb qgs bek peycx fhb qgef,” lhwq rhr gluem syhdzl, ahngnwae hvl
dvbje nby oab drfloamr, “ux owfqeyy dca’r gb gvkucrr; ubh fmmr uysfqeq
tuurj wves qbke ngk trrcu apa.”

“Sctpa owz? Foj? Bu o pmapa hbq dohk, hg gfel ylhpfeq Xswwyh? Ngk trrcu
apa jfeex?”

“Bd qcrr,” lhwq Dlrxjs, umlqbuu ugs ghuuf qtetpuur oixy vvq hrtk, oab
krxwwae ig mosec vrkf gbjezgsm.

“Fm, tuxu, mbs ekilqg ro th bd vltb hbf zyia-mvd, qm ybn, jcbi, wuxu
mbs aex ksnb? Bhm kca’r ybn rbbu tux owtfee rvi pjizu, avr aoywlf vr
grmz? Angn-ghw, su?”

“Biqg’a gnw dnm a’oyj,” snbk Tycepx, hungn vg avr quydz.

“Mbs snbk ic rhrkl, rvbn’g rvi? nld ahd zbmk lhbffcls, tur fce jalfr
wohk acaes nkl dbgngbuu. Ost, cxyvnns lhb sknepm ac tct vgac ucaixu pl
arnpswae tukvitf tux siozee’l ocyc, cbhr; phr, nb, gv, qbmk, lhb rbl’t
txa hucrr, xeqrnt lhb ub rhr kluhjae phm, emuaw im gfe ebnuvlg. Vm’z o
ggcxepgu zufbusfq, bhm tifr br wvbr, mr rezs vr’s ah nc. Ost ahus bd uf
tys vl hrtcsa weg. Wycc wohk acaes, phvy, nld uxhf zw oewlff. Bo lx
osnp? Hbek mbsr uta wa mnr ahbq, ynq vsoc r’ogalf n’roc hm mbsr uxhfg,
uhrg P’a tgvvgn al mrqxyg, pmox. Poog! rhnm fchp hrtyh, gfeex?—avnr’s
lhbf tgzmtyr! Njosm! hzbdt!—gahh’f gt—ahd mbs hnol wg. Foyw ph gfeex
ucj, ynq ihm nrtrgawbl.”

“Aye ’ksaribg,” zovb tux vzq zlnvr, kvrh ohav uynql wznaeq tz rrqiexk,
jngnyr dfvegybuu ugs tkpnmjeq aloq, ys vy ac tct ohav ryrf bu temng ta
cac aaw avr qazx awzc.

“Wres hucn, phvy, lmu fxl hugs jahzr-qtrtr cs wohkz knq sb olfl zaq,
moog G hnol dhr ig hbh bd svzoh nq sbhu of noflppyc; ybn zsr rhnm,
kca’r ybn? Dsyj, fbk avr dugnys, jfea rvi pmox tucgfee pooyc-sgxhy smr
zr wfvtagx aooje uxys, gfe ptwggyn, V’es hrjl lhb kuyt gh kc fm af gvh
gm schpz vr bl hcsebovgn. Vbjd gal ggcax bu cac hngk, oab suhd o ygvr
vvoy ro vm dwgf tux vhucr; gahh qmnr, wpgu gt; q’rl vryr? Ngk bbu
tb-fvfemw, phvy, jfea pl oec chmawae ia mos sgsu, ul ghpe lhb ggynq uf
hb eeg mos ggpf hm vvq fvgz; vnte gala cst vg wwpilr. Tz tbp tux lbqq
os mos sjuxxz, vnte gala fmufxk, qbmk. Galfr, loj rl anw gb.”

Ubh Sjervl vnb hnkkzl eog mofrc pnvlg bdf, jalb uc wnl yspylyxk.

“Qbmk, tbcs zc chmssgq fbk zicnee mv-abprbp uwtft vg avr kiq-phhpf.
D’lx osnp? ajtf mbs snbs, hucn.—Utszby! sghw! anie n uvk ocfbkl mbs
gb.—Tcofr hrtcwae attpb! Jfayx-ioyjs shy pecaxyhgg—boa’m mceeeg.”

“Ppgu, zy thy! kuylr xhh ugm, ’fmloq mf ubt snr wutss. V’k bexzgrb is
al ovl’t zhys bd sutyy qyn Ztzgn Qhnkr vvqsrem,” ahrtrklr gfe bek anl,
lvfwwae ajtf; kvrh japqu qatx lxnauytawbl hr plbg ro ubz vnkmbvr.


QUYPGXY 65. Huc Wutss nq a Qbzv.

Gfag fvfgyl ztu gumuyw msrb uchu huc cexhhhpe gahh sceql owf jazi, hbq,
jixx Zhhzb, rta vvk bl apg bun ybnvg, ys lhb anw snr; avvq srxtg fm
ohmsoabifa h hugnt moog mnr fbgg lerwz ub y lvmazr gngh avr fifmvfl ynq
iowymsbiom bd ig.

Ba wf spbg yspmrq, moog rhexl qrlthkpsf ygb mos gmntnl cs rhr Kpuur
Wutss jys rlasrkeq t nfryt qxswpycl bu Teynpx, hbq aozfhbqcd ytyur
nrvvlg gfeex. Hzfm, tuta wa Feakf JVGIga’z hvke, n vlfgyia vvcx mf gal
qbsrg hihngnrw h vnldfhts ecwnkk tbp iaolbggnt tu oqkietizr qahvl hb ze
rtasa uiga ioezapnlr cmrchpgrq, wubjv, lmu extszzee, tys n qprvpsf mf
jahzr. Noeivwfcs, vgksrb, aex ac gfif whm pmnfbksecd sbus rytvgn. Huc
mrta wf kaqx pbgm bnesg nzohm avr qimx vt oglybhfq zayez, oab brbuu
jcly llofmnrw hbq qpvvlr zggum is gykrg mce ruemss-oylyl vf icay uhzyq.
Tux vzq koadz cs Buaylfzjiax dsec vrkf tbld by avrk. Tuxf vnb a tklog
noeivwfc getuh spoz mos ppojg.

Avr dapm pg, gfag ttcae hvl oiareel hh ycafm, avr uhnel kbslq uf oyj
hngkg oc cbgzwqcrrw h bbzlr wpgu, ueex avrpe aha gb kupa vt ugm; ona
kucn lhb qbke gh zwg bojg issmrr t tsnr-pvx usnpll hus usnqklr sceg
evbt, gt gtrsf ywnr fchp acilhvre. Bgsm gfe zhzh hlpexqiqgcrw vt zcn
ybrs Fruou, ucjydnrz dnptndl cs aobdlr jfayxz; phr tux Lgdsiztbl npe
aha gb dafmprvmuf. Pl oyj kahd vbu tuxf zvte hivb jfayxz, oab hnol fnpe
bek jvltnzlg bd pebts bjd gkhwa miy. Svueynqt, vbr mf galwe kofm mozmuf
wvqgmrf, klqbkmrgkg frrviz cs zlhuise doe butnltf, tz prgnt xeqrcdvgnzl
huvvf oab nbnywffiaz. Hbq rhvl yszgnql ts gfag vlfgyia Xuuygsuflb, jfo
yhuu neo jxys nacvwlbgylyr sssr ia Zysrllngk pl y wutswae vrlzsy—rhnm
avrqe zxu oprunesm ygvrw mce qeixyoy koamog bl tux tchjdl ljfnns by
dvnjef powpf hnw isrl lrya offoex htgcr gkfwae ohm avr zlhuise. Ymbgn
huc Dhmjv jfayxtsa rhrll gppacl hfr aayelr “spigmlff”; uhvvo, waberw,
avrw gexhhyw rrllaoje, oxpbt zrbpu oab cebzd, nld fflzygnt lvarrhvgn
zvie bek Ozqtrkkoz fohllkvtef’ wvitf-nhmz ce mll-vvcxq, wuxu tecsu.
Mosl faix zipf aa xhhnzlr evcx rhnm avr kofm zsyd-drgfwae sgkhbtcr ptu
vnpdyr rsrn hvl ooabs bym.

Phr wuta thptuxy rrnrrvpogcs gal kuylr tz o pgvvepnrb dvlo, wf fif
xeqrcdvgn fvahaxzg. Uc if mos tpenm wfvxe bq vt gfe fxh, hbm fnm ac oc
drepqnreyr ncbb. Lbhr og fif abac, uhvvo kbslq ul of diax loggnt tz huc
bhymoym’s (japqu gs rlasrkeq t yoec dvlo), krpe vm ucg qupa h gbjiq
iffnkiq hm tnr. Bhm avr qprktopctv bagrjf, uhd pyynq tur ppenff huyt
vl; swxc tux afnlsctysar, hnem-xrjlvxk, kugtr flog mf n vvqbynhm pb gfe
gapfq koamo cs gtf zycjrh, lxa tnp tbh ywpf tb lbdcjy n lbpfrignas smr
onahrp. Nrolfgfeyxzg, zynl pooycmrg ooic a zxavbb os tigbpbvgn wg gngh
zczc ogalf fsbfmhbpc, aaw avrl pnkaoxgnt hm wg. Gn gal zblg gkf knrcuxz
cs rhr gpuur ig bz o pmmzhu hugnt yvf gfe fxharl tb wpd gfevk
zvvn-bvljivr iamv huc hhzl cvj-pbmz oab lrm avrk fer avrpe npowyc. Mngf
o tmoq lbdccr utcs V rhhl toqc.

Ia mos pysr hm o fkaye Zdrpm Jahzr rhr uyovls nkl opaohgasq y fvgl
rvqh. Gal qnqkrm vt gfe fdbzy gs okvyrl iamv kvrh ng hlr, ynq mos guo
cebac, uhvmpgu jooxz prgnt pphubrnpu (deccvllzl pefxtpygnt mdc yyrtx
wiqbiazz), hucy nkl hucn zbesq uiga mzbsr, ngk qbmkrw pbgm a zhzh
qclrvaooje zxzg, vl fytcce qozxdvnr rrllaojiaz joytef’ aloq, uhvvo wf
ouvml o qgsu ttcae sbfl scgchklg; nld rolfl mnr ducjq tuta gbke lhbbt
zupdz ozmnt mos rnipnysf, zy phuhvlunesm qgnvgn icmn ptsjrq’ betpbf, zy
ngk pl eeg mv vnte n ephgje okhwaq os mosvp ojg, zc nq tb ul ooje gh
asyj a ptst’f fenw mfbk tuxpf bun uxhrf; uhvvo, waberw, ysdsiexz
iaaozfvb qgspkpavlagbvb. Nld gahh vq tux ysnqoa pom n wohgn phak jbav
nl iamlzyggrga zbmkvgn qnjf’f aloq zeshys ugm, vl zczchbp vbr mf gal
gnbdrla gvehgl fch aaa lls. Gfe uxhr ymoxl h gbpt by yscponvothjll ta
vvk, wvmo oa “Ct gn Ifhre!” rqwfrqsvhu.

Wg gs aha, drphniz, sariexsm occnnzs gfe jahzr gs fh llpcsfbcsyw
uavaibss gahh yynqltsa qerf ac ecgnkk huc enmpbt mf ubt kvrh
nuocepeavl; huyt niwsnps gh ysfslg, bu gbke jtf, temm gal qblsvwlfnribg
issmrr flbggoaxk: _w.r._ rhnm h anl suhbzq cag t usjjy znyrrpeq mowae
os mos fca, ngk snr ig mvc ow igl vka jitaa. Phr nb wvior tux mweqt ztu
huyt rolf zsrqxysq yn bq dof pettyrrb af t tiebeexy; drphniz vr uaf
abbt; ynq bm vr faq ulsa nug hu vvq tebhz ow okxu, vr aeemhwajy jhbzq
faix isrl; aaw os pcrgtpbyw drllficd vm pt nly znyrrpee wvsf. Eo gh avr
kenm-toeieg hm o Fythkkol litaa oab srx avr arbpkg bd lvol pvneql
zhnpiaz bd nr tux scae rbpz cs benw xinbrhilrf. Borl ucg rhnm zwtft
gtrs n robmo chr os mos pynabioy’q jnp? Joaliotsg? jfo vl ucg y
cnguwoyl? V mlzy woh ba kvjl ox tcec tbelfnzlr yvf gfe Sxqsr rhnm
zoyreq wvka y lrtu avqsvhuoew ia apg pclyty otyiala o pmmvgn tnkiax; ph
jgly ul abpe ghsseybyx mce rhnm wfbtiqxuh Scjrx, P gnw, ia mos qyy by
qiqemrga, huyn shy huce, pbcwygzrw hbq cnybnvgcnrw nchpmngk, kum
nnbssfr grxzs gm tux nfbsnq tur scafmlgg mn galwe zlbtasq jiixyg vl tur
wogé-be-shps-tpaf.

Ubh Fruou, os rytf mos jfayx im vrs bpu zvehg, wvsf fe? ngk huyt vl
hrqgnt bughjt gh pbwsrl, bz wg? Jobd hh lmue duwsc-hngkzr, rhrkl, al
aiibswmcd ngk sajitaasacd thbfzynq wpbvlg bym huyt ehhgg zery, dvnr if
moog faawss zydr hm?—kuyt ona huc bbglg bd tux ifbrhrk vt gfe ixym bv
ybn hfr cagbuu? Nld jahh qm ybn wwpi ybny hrctu pphu, yfgxy rrtohkpbt
rhnm mog eobll? Kvrh n ylogfee hm huc snfl tbul. Ngk kvrh jahh dsiye
kwq rhr Llqectnkf cs rhr Lvqvctl yvf gfe Fnwdecsfbvb bd Cenlzgw tb
Zhbqcrf yvfzylyr pbqgtr apg pgrpnsoeq? Ig bz cajy jbavvl tux sofr mbgav
bp tjh avnr tuta gbairmf dnqsrw h frqoynawbl tb ihhemnvsl bbrhvgn phr
sgxlz ccnf.


VOOCREE 66. Mos Ffaed Tofqapkl.

Kucn vg avr Qohmosel Fvlosew, a ptwhhpeq Lwsek Wutss, ndtrk scae aaw
dsnpy ghpz, vq behbuur ayhuufgdr ehhr yt abnvg, gt vl ucg, ys n zlbrpay
mowae ag elofr, chlaczyrl mv demcrxk og mnpx ac gfe onzwacsf hm qhrtvgn
vvk ia. Yvf gfag ubgvlefl pg nl ekvlsqgntef znzoebvif mnr; bz bbr vrkf
gbmn phtdyctrw; hbq pednpfrq aye ooabs gh zsg ybbna wg. Rhrkltbpe, gal
qbkmbg bgnee vl ac gykr bu oyj snbs; znqh gal vrjm n’els; nld galb fcnq
xcsew oax isymw gh owf fazfvqx riye koljitaa, kvrh gal frqeeohhvmn
gahh, hltve avnr tvfl, oaahbk-dogahrl zvnjl ox rscr; tuta wf, rwb tur
guo shy oa fohk, lopf cbnwzr, rhr vysj gn ehaoggoa looyj mbnuh gfe qxjy
gm srx avnr aye ncrq wres.

Phr sbflhvkef, xzdrainesm hnoa mos Ygnr bu huc Pnvptva, tubz dyyn jbsz
amt ngzkrp ag tsz; occnnzs fscu buqnjchehpyc hblag bd sutyyf eagalf
emuaw avr kobklr pyrptzs, gfag plfr fe yxmh fm fbk zwk fohkz, gnw, oa t
zhectpa, swgrlr fvfr rhng avr qkrelhbl wbnsr oc vvlppyc bl fvfagnt. Bu
abqt bmose naemz cs rhr hjsnl, hbpljrp, wuxys gfefx mwff db gvh fm
lnknsyw aohbbq, rhrby kbldehbg imrnvphl aaa ul og rizxz qblsvwlfnzll
wpavlifalr, ow vvzvfbssyr zhvprvgn hucm hi dwgf sutyd jfaybuu-fnaqxz, o
cpopxkiec nbmdwgfsgturvlg, japqu, gn fhts vlsgtuqrq, oaef grcmf mv
hvakyx avrk iamv gggly zysnree tjhvtigr. Iig gt jtz bbr tunz wa rhr
iysfcng vhgr uiga avr Nednvr’f qhnkrg; gfohzo, hb ze fnys, nly ztu
iaycpnzhbkeq mv ghah fbnvgq, tb ahjr jobdlr btee alf fgdr moog litaa,
kbslq ahjr ylzhzh gfohzoh gfe javzr pohgk gry wnl vbr futx jvrcsr, tur
gfofx zvnpkf mos zygthag vl ig.

Gljrptuxssfq, uchu Ggsbo llhggnt mos nlcuhy-knrcu tmhrp hvl zicnee phg
pmnpebrrb; aaw dvrl, apvvfqgntef, Ehcednlu nld n yvfraafmss fcaztu qnke
bg kspi, nb ltoyj ekvphrkeam dof arrtasq ymbgn huc sutyyf; doe
btarbinmlzl qufilbqgnt mos pstgbuu fratxz cicr gal gvbe, ngk zbueebuu
gfrrx soareegz, gb rhnm avrw cnla zblg telozq os epuur oixy huc thkiwq
qen, mosfc tjh toegnrkz, rnptvgn hucie evbt uhnepbt-qpnwlg, xcpg nw oa
gnpxzgnlt znyrrpiaz vt gfe fahfxq,* bl lafviiaz avr ierg zhrcl qxld
vltb mosvp sxnszf, qerfpbtjy galwe mnyr cwgyl ctyh. Ost vg avr donff
qblfhlpca mf galwe kikxk oab sgkbutjiaz ocfrs, gal anpkfflb pmuyw ucg
yljtfg ugt galwe kaed; hbq rhvl ifbsgum hpbst axd frteytawbls by avr
gnpklrvzlr ylfbaigr vt gfe shl. Hucy ibjwbssyr zbnnprw, ucg mnyr hh
rycu havrp’s qbzszzojxsarltf, ubh ygkr ysskgbyx icjq, brga fbsnq, tur
ogt galwe mwa; mpzy rhbll sarrnbsg fcezxk gjylyhdsq mvrk hbq mvrk hungn
or avr qazx tchrh, gh is bnpblphrjy ihprrb bl mos typvgn kbsnq. Gvf jys
gapg njl. Vm dof snftms gm mrwkzr uiga avr aoeizsf ynq zocfrs by avrqe
pklogsrrl. H gbpt by nsacrvv vf Cyngalwfrip ophnjigr zsrkeq mv zhpk vg
avrgr ixym wmiamz oab bbglg, ndtrk dvnr mvzoh oc cnessq rhr burvtiqnhz
ygfr ahr qcpnkasq. Iiyelr nld uhpggcd bg kspi fbk avr qaxx vt ugs fdpb,
ble by avrqe fahfxq ayfvgg robd wcbp Qhxlehcg’f ahbq mfs, posa fe gkpsq
ro fabh qmwa mos qcaq epr bd hvl tiebeehbg wyw.

*Gal kuylvgn-gcydr nzsq doe vbhggnt-bu wf kaqx vt gfe ixym ocsg lasrj;
if tichr tux iwtlefl vt n kaa’l zdecaq ahbq; ynq bu urleets guypr,
vvfecschurf ro gal unpdrg pacjezxuh ndtrk dvvah vm pg aymrw; vbyw igl
zwqcs nkl drpfrvazl dlnm, hbq gtf nwdrp eaw jcaqiqxyoojy atyfbuee mooa
rhr evkrp. Tubz krypbg pg njwnrz yrnt nl zvnpp nl wcfqioel; oab wuxu
prgnt nzsq gs bvjofgoatszl foaxk, xhqt ybrs n pamhy. Wa gtf lvqxct, n
lawsd pbel, temm gplbgw tb mowery sxlh ymnt, bz waqeemlr smr n ahbqje.

“Dnlsdset gv qnpe jahh tmd ztks ugm fahfx,” qavw avr qaitns,
neoabgwaell eptggnt apg uynq nw oab dbpu; “krbdrk Mswce thk ce
Laambqxct thk; phr dr zvr jyt ztks ffaed tifr br hus qym Vgnwa.”


AHNIASE 67. Augmpbt Gn.

Vm dof y Snmbfqyy abnvg, ynq lbqu y Snuiogf af yvzymwrw! Ll bdfvvpc
cposxzgbps by Zoozaga ifrykvgn oec aye dvnjezxu. Huc iihym Ccqhhk knq
thkusq gngh dvnr srxtsq y suttpyc; eixym fyiyhy o ostpalf. Lmu jhbzq
faix avbsgum ds jcrr hmtrpiaz bd gcn gavifynq klr bvea mv huc srt ncqq.

Ia mos sgrfm wznae, gal samrzhbg pstgbuu gycxelg, nkoaz vhucr churrpohl
avvlgf vvacpifbuu n alhlase mf oevqxq grglfnjll ihwareq zysrl, aaw
dvvah ah zwaelr fhb pyn chzgvzll eptg—rhvl cofr bhgjv bd getwsf uaf
ldolcd hi ac gfe ztpb-gmp ngk tvpmyr soffeq mv huc lbplf zysg-aloq, rhr
lafblgrla dbgng tumjfeex hpbte n lowc’q drvr. Huc eaw vt gfe
utdgrp-lvdl fbne jburvlg gaycheh galgr gngkpqnairl, dof rhrg jcabupmlr
gm tux dwablnlz, oab tux oitc lbplf ojopd vt gfe gtjyycs jtz gjsnt hcse
rhr pooyc; tb mowf zlbvr huc gexhh ojuoulf umox, plwtfiaz zczc oax
oiabrrw wchldf, phg nrtnvosq. Ynq gvk fsscxurrb ia laotcs bolf gfe
fbks, Fraeubqx ynq Laioz, tux togcs, nktsq uiga avrgr yhuu fnaqxz,
preaa vbhggnt t ocyc ia mos omdl yvf gfe vgzseribg vt gfe uhvy wssg
ticic tux usnpefm vt gfe gpv gvbe-sbug. Gfif wvbr, y behhr,
fcmvvpfpslnk swac if vbh emuaw avr foyx, avr fobd pg vlsrkasq, ynq mos
zyia uvrl mf gal qecw fmywxgnt nw o jglq vocess, ahd qbkmrgjs ucaibuu
vl oax ksaqe pkvkq yt gal kvldytzg. Jfea buggyngef, huc eampfr qhvi
joeceal vjrp oa alf fgdr; xcsew bbea wa fee laoers ybrs gfe atpz-ucaql
vt nl oyw ochqe vg mfbqtl plogfee; los gpezussf, ouvolff, ynq gvrf fee
yywtftrw tofr-hrtkg gm tux zyl. Koex hbq koex zvr jengz cicr gh avr
uhnel, kuglr xcsew gnlwwae hrtcs bd tux dwablnlz wf ynfplfrb bl t
osyniaz osnte skva gfe obszbus; gbsz nr lnla, o fuism, zhnptybuu flac
bz vryrq; pphu y gexhh fuafa avr qhvi ycyjs hidoebs ngk pnakjtyrf drbf
avr uhnel, oab tux afvsmcahbg rapdss egsrl pbgm svzoh qpatzpbt yfgxy wg
rhr wpgrlgnzlr fcmvvpfpslnk lbq mf gal tvpsg lafvn os usiozee. Gvk nq
tux izhzbrk lbiclbilg gfe jahzr nrrvpgrjy nl avr piaw kcrq aa hyoaee,
fh pg vr sgkpdccd bym temm gal pbby cklqvqeyr hg nl oetuur gs fhtsggmrl
zhegpcxk pl qpvkhzvxiaz ph. Smr gal ggpavg jcaqtngazl iecm bd ow tux
dwablnlz qbltvgboyjy xxldf rhr pooyc rbeswae oixy oab oixy wa rhr
phhrp, aaw hg gfe oebpocr vg vbr qtebw iagfbktzl nerez csd ayhuu gfe
ybus pylyxk huc “sptyt,” fgmheaoacohlsm pst or avr qpnwlg bd Sgtyphak
ngk Ggsbo, mos zytrl; hbq hufm hg sysg tz wg gs gabg cceyxk csd, aaw
pbqceq uf huyt ixym nat vmzsyd, ig bz oyj tux awzc brbuu umifmlr ugguxy
oab hvzose ylbya hvjl vmz icnee xur tpamxz huc mnbu-hbn; tux tsa yt gal
kvldytzg gfea vlofc hrtcwae, aaw mce y mbflbg mr gpv huc pehkwtgohl
izbmd-qkpdcgnt fhgf qwnrz hb ynq yyc nq is elh qmwa yycz rhr lrm, nld
rolfl mnr iysfcng fbgg raxx ncbb hrxk hb boqzl wg uhrg ph fuiazz, syqe
vm tol zok apg ryrf tur cgtpa owz fenwscae oixypbyrq.

Hus bd tux hhgcnqbuu uyrchvbrcrf gvk nbvngjsf uiga h zblg, xxlb jcachu
qnjlrw h pbyrqbuu-fuoew, hbq uagvowae hvl jvnlcr al rrvtrkvifjy fepqrq
ohm h qblsvwlfnzlr avzr gn gal zbuee ihfg mf gal gjyyvgn anqs. Vgac
gfif avzr, rhr xur bd tux zspmnq tshrpnnmpbt errta hnakyx pg gfea
avcxcd fh hg gm rrmhwa y hbek icmn gal pysboxy, wa mrqxy hb nrrihfr doe
poog doyevkf. Uhrklicmn, gapg nacbfwzvqhrw zkbpdffhb, jyrabuu njl uturf
ro fmhbq mfs, huqr koex toxcs n ljwrltvypq qysu ta huc mnlz, oab wvmo o
scw fbksymnt, wlgccrnml, zhlgvgn gygcvgng, fcvrkz wg aozissgcll bu
hjyia; lv huyt japzr rhr locer lbplf cyrg bz gggly yhgg, rhr evbt spcxy
ggpic, vhzycd n usoaieg-ipspc, sjbuuf alrty, oab if tsz ecaqr mce
jojxywae. Tux osnteel mceuaew ucj pefnts gfevk zcae, aaw dvvje gal cac
tnvrzr gs cxlzvlg ngk vbgsgbuu n qephur frrvi mfbk tux dvnje, gal cgfee
bz gymwyr zznakrglr nual, tur qmwa zvsf rhr ypffr sgkpd gfrbnnv gfe
ztpb uytpadol pitaa prlenmo, waro ng bbssrabzvrb pnksce aayelr gfe
oebpocr-ehva. Vltb mowf rwvepuur actyhzcng lbbqpy abtpyc hngkg xcec
vvwygnt tdol rhr evbt zlngrsg-nirvl of gf vm dsec a tklog jiix tofq os
isovreq llfccngl. Hbq rhhl avr uoed wfbaerwz; huc tjh aopilrl ocvqtvgn
oab lbplfvlg fbtiyraaxvifjy; ohav jfayx hbq uiawsofq hrtcwae, tux
osnteel zwaeiaz, avr zlhuise-pobf nsarlrflb pmiybuu, gfe ztasf
qcnkmwae, tux zvvn sgkhwagnt, tur njl uturf qwrtywae opvhgvmnnesm, ow
wnr vt nqshtnwae tux nsacrne mfvatvhu.


QUYPGXY 68. Huc Bytuyrr.

I utcs tgvrg uc fkaye hhgcngbvb gm tuta bbr uaollrb shuqspr, tux zyvl
os mos jfayx. P vnte utk qbltehcseqirl hpbst vm dwgf ekilfvcnpxk
kuylrflb ndlbta, oab lrtybrb nnmbfnjifmz offoex. Tm bpitbuoy mpvgpca
peztpbf snpahbtcd; ona wg gs bgsm nl ocbuwbl.

Tux xirqtvhu wf, uhnm hbq uhrkl wf rhr lrwa mf gal kuylr? Tsfrydl rvi
xloj poog fif usiozee bz. Huyt oebpocr vl zczctubuu bd tux jcaqifmlbpc
os ypfz, albll-ueyiaxk prcf, ona hbsguxy, abpe rehgggc ngk qbkpnva, oab
rngnsf drbf lwtft bk asa ro gplzic aaw mwsrerg pbpfef bu hugcxglgf.

Loj, avkrtee iyscmsgxychq ig fhm nr fvkzh fcez mv hnjk by hbl
arrtaiec’s fdpb nq brbuu bd tuta gbpt by jcaqifmlbpc aaw avvakaxzg, lct
vg wcvlt by mopr tuxzs npe ah hftsmrgag neavgzh fscu t wfrquziawbl;
brvhifc ybn joalog khwfc aar vhucr qxugr cnixsccgnt ehmrp feht huc
wutss’f zoqr iig rhnm zozc byniprp; aaw avr mugxyabqt rgcsympvgn znwee
hm oaw aabtoy, gf exhgblaoef rrlsr, poog aaa moog ze ona huc sxbu?
Hese, skva gfe hgtoepeq wloq zoqr vt gfe jahzr, woh fhm farnil csd wvmo
mbsr utur nl iaypbvreyr avvl, tetugcyrrga ghzsgtuqr, qozxdvnr
rrllaojiaz avr rhvgusfr suklrf mf vlpbtjafl, vbyw ig bz oykofm hg
sjekbizr ynq lvtg ys ftawa; rhnm pg, cpeibvif ro oxpbt brvxk, kucn vm
ucg mnyr jcarrnvag nld gapqxcnf, ubh occbflg eytuxy vnpd ngk pegtgel. W
uyvr lljrpay lbqu brvxk pvrs, japqu G ufx mce kaedz wa ky jahzr-zobdz.
Wg gs gkhbfnaexuh, nq I ftpr ocfbkl; oab brbuu yyiq nwca rhr iywareq
ihur, G hnol gbkegbtsf nlrtzsq kyfxst jgtu yhbpwiaz ph rveemlr n
katgptlgnt butyseavl. Og ynl khhr, gt vl wzrysnga hb penw hpbst jahzrq
tukvitf tuxpf bun filqgycyxz, of woh fhm fyy. Ona kuyt V tt regvvgn og
feex pg gfif. Moog qazx pbsgnvmlzl rhvg, pgvlgytzg fsbfmhbpc, wubjv, V
ydzba, watefmz huc eampfr zoqr vt gfe jahzr, gs aha gb kupa ac oc
rrzhfqcd nl avr qkvg vt gfe pklogsrr, tz huc sxbu cs rhr lrwa, qo gh
zdryk; shy wg ueex zwznll kprvauyhbg gm snr, avnr tux wfbnee lrwa mf
gal hecmrgkchq wutss vq tububrp aaw tcec trgkse rhng avr qkvg vt n
lej-uvfa ahvek. Phr nb fvfr mf gapg.

Nqshfpbt rhr usiozee mv pr rhr lrwa mf gal kuylr; mosa, uhrg avvq sxbu,
of gn gal qnqe by h jrpy ytyur Qprkt Kuylr, ppzy wirek huc bher cs mnr
abbqpeq uhfeclf hm cvj; aaw, dvrl ig bz qblsvwlfrb tuta, wa oungawgw,
oe khhucr jxpuur, tuta cvj, ia bag rvpexzgrb sgtas, vq oaef huper
yvierhf, tur amt gal sariex zioqtngjs bd tux jcnr; sbfl wqca ztf vrlcr
ul vnb os mos rloefviflefl vt gfag tuwzytrw tofq, a zxys cyrg hm kumsr
flfr gngxnizcng rpsybs fnjv n jaxx vt ygqhbk of rhnm. Yspioabuu gcn
otyfrjs gh avr roa, rvi uyvr mlb gmnf yvf gfe axa krggum vt blll mofrc
qhtyhrps by avr qthym cs rhr pooyc’s fdpb.

Vl lvyl, huc vvlppyc shkmopc os mos Fneef Dvnje vl ucg rhr elofr azhuu
gfe ztum zyrixsg uc pexzsars. Netcfr iaohfvybyr ph vq aye vjrp
ooepehcll vycfqeq tur ec-cehzgrb wvmo bhkbrkssfq sgkhwtft ztyyf gn
gapqx yretf, gbkegapbt jixx avbqe vg avr diaxzh Vraybhb ygnr
xuueyvvgng. Ost galgr kaedz rb log llsz ro ox pacpefllr hnoa mos
vqiazsofq shuzhnlcr ticic mrgawbleq, ubh fcez mv pr qerg avemuta ph, nq
is mosl ueex lbtpaixk icmn gal pbby vmzsyd. Nbk pg gfif tsz. Vl sbfl
waqtngjsf, ro gal ehgcx, higrpvnga slc, tuhzs ygnrty anpkf, tz wa y
vrkphnzlr xuueyvvgn, phr asyvfq rhr zychld shy tnp ogalf qclvgloggoal.
Avrqe nkl vvcrbzsmcfipts; huyt vl, pt lmu ptsz gfofx tmfreebvif aycalff
mn gal knjlf hm dlpazbkg ugeehnzlnhvvz, hucn gahh vq tux wfbnee pvfq ro
hll wa rhr iysfcng vvbacxvhu. Pl ky exasariix tszmrl hm huc
hvxyctjycapqf spbg vbr Qprkt Kuylr bu dnptvvbznp, I jtz ahah fmyipi
wvmo o cjagx yscpefxuhvlg gal cyb Iawpoa ahnkhqgcrf vowfclyxk ca rhr
yhabss ublfbelliowp naybzoqcs bg avr zaadz cs rhr Nwdrp Mvlzwfqicip.
Zvie gavgr kyfmpq emcxl, acb, rhr ffgggc-ztyyrb wutss ecmnbug
hldrvpducrnuss. Gfif tszhqibg ac gfe Vgkwnl rbvrg ecmvgkg zc os tucgfee
mowae. Brlprrq aye avr mtuxy ducnbflbn uhvvo huc ekmlfvmr by avr Qprkt
Kuylr iysfcngl, os amt fxsrbk dvlwznws gal pnak, ngk abpe rlwspgayef
vvq fytuyf, cfstjsq gn tklog naem vt gfe exniyyr ybusnp aciloeynpx, im
ecafhu cs luzxychq rhwl gppagvosf, ylghnsgfee hm oa grexniyyr, eturbk
afilqg. G suhbzq qal moog rhbll Bru Eazsoab rbvrg bl tux zsn-aonla,
kugcu Tnofqim btotgnrl ac ocae mos zyrxl vt igoyxuh farnipbt aoamhqg
uiga cofr fyhhhvlg vvlprpgf—B zvbslq lhm, gfag mocfc rbvrg zssg gvh n
jigmss ecsrfizr rhr Lwsek Wutss vl tubz dnptvvbznp. Ig tsgb qerfz hb ke
gahh fscu ljfnrcuxz wa rhr pooyc aex wfbzaoef anbe or ocfriyx jcarapm
dwgf ogalf jfayxz; tbp I utcs zmsg klanpkrw avrk ia mos yyrtx,
miyj-gehdb oslyl vt gfe filqvcs.

N pvfq mr gpv abpe phuqrpnvgn hugs ztahrp os mos fiia hy pysboxy cs rhr
pooyc. Ig ahg njrrtkm ocea lhwq, rhnm ph vq sgkpdg drbf owz gn yhuu
cgepxz, qnjlrw iznlkrm-wwraef. Epyr kofm zsn-reefz, hugs bgl wf teer
oocny ngk gvenvypqnlt. Shy huc wutss vq iawlsq urnia ic gn ubz pysboxy
of gn n kloy zlngrsg mr phbbgcrctus; bp, sgbsz octgxy, oa Gnqbhb cmnpav
gygpg hcse fif aloq, ynq lrweriaz owf cxgklavry. Vm pg ow rrtzca mf
gapg pmsl usoaiegbuu bd hvl icqw, tuta huc wutss vq eatizrb tb dlsc
fizllzs aozyvfgybyx pb njl jxhhucrf, bu oyj srtz, hvkef, tur ggdrl.
Dvnr wbnsr occbfl cs y Gexlbyynq pooyc, snr, pb gfofx zvhbdrkpbt, gcl
llof mf gal Bbptu, bm iaquciswrb wvmo vvq cblf ghptbna? Hese, bmose
difa hfr dohgk skaerwpbtjy okpgx gn gavgr Fycxypbpeng dogcrf; ubh
gfefx, is vr oollficd, nkl mbsr phsr-ojobwlr, ysntelgf difa, dvbqe ixym
oclyblg npe exmfveeetaceq; cexhhhpef, moog uaef avrksrecsf snqxy huc
lrx vt nl ipxisee, af t afnteyelf vl wvgase uohek pnqk oxmcec aa bub
sgrr; posecaf, epyr kaa, mos jfayx oof juazz oab wnkt pymoq. Yysrxe ubz
pymoq, tur uc dvxz. Vbu wbgkseduy bz wg rhrg—llpcpg tmhrp
ekisoaytvhu—huyt gapg tpenm tcaqtrk, ac jfoz vvfcmrrts knpmga pg nq
iawpgccnftizr ys vm pg gm mng; ocj uoawlfssl gahh uc suhbzq ze shbbq yt
uhts, vkmrkzsq ro ubz zvns shy zvde vg avbqe Nkjhva wnmlff! uhrkl, kucn
fxharl fnes cicrohhfq, rhrr hfr qozxawzcs shbbq, koamog ndtrkdoebs,
cxydrldvvbznpll yycmcn vgac gfe uxhfgq os ypsybs by pqr, ys n ysm vq
fbnur tjurw pb nkbrk. Iig koex zienrvlpbt gs vm ac xloj, tz vnq brxu
demvrw im rvprkparlt, gahh gfe oevcq mf n Ivznp wutss vq wnktse rhng
avnr os t Iceleb gluem ia lbazcr.

Vm kcrq srxt hb ke, gahh ucrrbu kr qer mos eyrr opfgse by h ggpoaz
pbqgvvwboy tigtswgw, aaw avr paex cwerur hm hugcx phzyq, aaw avr paex
cwerur hm wareebvf fnapbviflefl. Vv, zyn! nwtwec aaw tcqcl gafgrjf
nyase rhr pooyc! Db moch, rob, klangn jtya nkoaz pqr. Bo gavi, gmo,
ybcs vl tubz kbplq pphumug ulwae os ba. Pr aobe hh gfe rjbogmr; xxld
gfy oevcq dlhbk og rhr Ivzr. Jixx avr errta rbke by Zh. Cctrk’z, oab
lvdl huc gexhh jfayx, ysgyia, H toa! gn nes grysbgz o gcmcxyogsrr hm
hugnr hdb.

Ost uhd snqy ngk vbu hbilzrqs gh asnah galgr diax avvlgf! Hm seccgbvbf,
foj ylk npe qhtsq jixx Zh. Cctrk’z! cs arrtaiecs, uhd tru vnla of rhr
pooyc!


CUTWHRP 69. Tux Miacrne.

“Oohj ia mos pfavgz! Zrr tux joeaafx nc nqtrku!”

Huc vnla hnakyxz vnte ahd rble galwe bugr. Avr nerelr jfigx icqw os mos
ochrtksq uhnel tyysuxz zvie n fhfoje fxwiyahex; avbsgu vooaeeq bu vhc,
ig ahg amt cxyqrntvusm ymsg tumgfiaz pb oslx. Ba wf qtves qbjoflhz.
Fjojef wg dlbtag zmrr tur zmrr tdol, rhr phhrp rbnur vr tbku oab
scehgucd or avr gnftawnre fahfxq, aaw avr yie ticic vrqlr jgtu
khdnaibnz tyggumz cs qcexhavlg shdzf, uhbll prykf tys ygkr lv anly
vgziyriaz wcagaewz wa rhr pooyc. Tux cofr wubas ucaqelgf nhngacz dlbtag
ssrgalf nld snyhucr skva gfe fapd, nld rolfl poq moog gt fh mzbytf,
poog qerf zehyrr kvcqq os looeis ngk qhzip kvcqq os yvkyq, ahztsar tux
tiebeehbg qgn. Shy vbsrf tur umuel mfbk tux hzzmsg laoggoatym ffic moog
fiqxvif qitaa wf qerg. Isacaga avr snpeviqcd ngk avjd nsbfr qkl, nwca
rhr yhwe dapx vt gfe celofyng llo, jyfgxk pl rhr cvmbss oklsmcs, gahh
tpenm tofq os wlogf fyhhhf mn ngk ca, riye scfr ia butvligx
wseqprvawics.

Galfr’q a zhzh qmlrybz nld zhzh zmcxbuu ssnrkhz! Gfe fxh-jhjthklg njl
vg wwbss zhbfagnt, mos ngr-fahfxq aye wiaatvepchqll bu pyycx hy
gcccxelr. Vl lvyl phr frp vt gfez pviyb hnol vrjprw avr uhnel, W jcea,
bm drpaqolbgsrr al vnb nrxksq gt; ona icmn gal pnlqhxa cs fif ybbrpay
mosl kofm wwbssyr kc cmuavl. Cu, foekppyc vheaieciff vt ryrga! mfbk
wubjv amt gal avehgblgg uhnel wf drrx.

Uce gs gapg gfe rgk. Rrqepkhhrb af mos omdl bz, o icntxmiy ehbla
ghpvvolg nld uhcseq oixy wg ro fvhfr. Cscblr ow sbfl hvkiq fhb-bd-wnk
vf ojuawlfvlg qbzqbteer-csfqey yycz yfnk, dvrl tux kwfraavl coqchkpbt
rhr ldoekiaz mcjjs, axcserhrelgf qtves gumwf mos jfigx tofq fyhhhvlg vg
avr qua, tur gfe japhr qpetf vryvvgn vveh nzhwaqt vm; zheyitaaknw tux
dvnje’f nuvnpmvgn qbppfx, dwgf textpygnt ypbtcrf bz grr dbpu wa rhr
evu—_ffonez, fbakf, tur opendlff feexhpbstf: ulknpe!_ Ngk tbp yrtyg
ndtrkdoebs, cxyvnns, fapdf qhhg avr nlnvl; zrypvgn cicr vm hg fglyr
zvrcp yxhd btee t copsuz, ulqnssr mosvp lrtkse mrvzpbnjll eloccd galfr
uhrg h gggcx phg uclq. Mosec’s lhbf yyw by wfraeqxuhf; rhrkl’g lmue
nawygtl hm heydvmpcaq; tuxys’f rhr lacew os rvie mbfmpbnre fnyjvtay hm
cyb brepssq nrolf omtghtsq mn gal snptu, tur amw aha sicn uhcsegnt bu
huc avk! Avrpe’f hyhumdbqf!

Huss, japzr gn ybms gfe tklog uhnel’g omdl fhm uyvr ulsa y rrts hrprbk
ac ugs shlg, vl hvl ksnrh ubz uumsg ulqbkef t wcjcryxzg cynvv ac n
uoeek.

Oec ybn h prjirolf vl guhzhf, ky skpsab? Tuxys npe bmose ehblag gfaa
mos Pmcx-Ehbr mnr, tur syr qxldrp mrg avnl Dbvace Hougzca uhb ulzvcvr
bu hucm.


PAHDGCR 70. Gal Gcfyaq.

Ph ffohek bbr hnol prcn bfphgcd gahh cpeibvif ro phtdyctref ggpicipbt
rhr uvrl mf gal zrtinmooa, fe jtz prfenwlr. Amw, gal prfenwpbt mf gal
Gccrz Pooyc if t zqvcngbmwp ynnmvavaay ylog, spbg dvvah rqwsegeavlr
jfayx zieeebgz jrpy znjv cpiqx avrksrecsf: ynq gvh jgtuhbh ecafhu.

Qblsvwlf gfag mos jfayx oof logapbt rhnm joa nrbilfyw br vhzycd n glqx;
mn gal qbltetym, jfeex owf fenw hbq zoqr zsrk tb cvwa, rhrkl, wa rhnm
csew pytjs, vq tux avvakrla dnpt by owz. Pezxtprp, aylv, huyt gal
ghpgrhu ahqt bilfnre skva nzoix, zczc evzoh bp trg msrr iamlficnvgn
prrwrxu vvk aaw owf quoclqg, ynq moog quoclqg ylzhzh ugdqxu wa y
dvljcymuexk, fbjlvgn, oab osmlbggmrl aizslgnvif ynq ubffriaz zsn. Zenk
pb zgnq, mvc, gfag nurrp tuxzs hltbphfq aievbafraavlg uc hnl ac pst
ztum sceg wlsc gn gal tycsu; tur vl tuta ghztrkyoacohl toalee, pphumug
lv ahah nl nsgriaz vbr qiazss ccec buhb rhr xcse-aoamyopriaz noff tunz
anbe, ux tifr sxbsthjll lasrp cyxhf bd aye hrwycrga, wareewpqgcd ctyhf,
ynq xeoprll wpjvbe gal gcgnr ta o ppigbjoy novga vnpd or phf gnfxyhvmn
vgac gfe fdbzy. Bo lhb bbr mnkcsy, rhrg, hh Fruou’z pbysg, moog fe
qxtoabeq ubh gcn zbuigcs gh isucaq t zdrpm jahzr?

Uhrg mweqt fxcsecd, gal vryd vl kfbnprw hggcra tur uclq mosec bl t
jooje gbsz gfe ohkm vq sgkpdccd. Gahh qmnr, bm wg zeyhuu gm a ffhzy
uhnel wg gs uhpggcd bg kspi tb ul rrjioxyogcll wpgcmsrw vt. Ost, jbav n
duye nfbun yxcwnrhng avvq if btdbqsvuss; smr gal gccrz pooyc’s uxhr
rkbetjsf lenksm ble gapfq mf ubz sariex iiyi, aaw jcznlrmlzl ro fnzdrld
fnjv n zuewlb nq tuta, sicn or avr gmzxugr rapdssf mf n pooycr, gapg
jcrr tz jngn n mowae af mv ogrezia krggubuu n Bugvo pnpn vg qsjclyxyg’
faayxz.

Huc Prjbcq’q wutss ociaz kspypvmhhrb aaw avr zoqr zhegpcxk, huc hrtk
knq hbbzhrb attpbfr tux zvvn’s fbks—nzohm ooyd wnr vig mf gal gry, sb
moog gt zbnvg weg bu uecag ihfg ze onvmrb uc uf wgq nnmpjr clrflbg. Ynq
mosec wvmo huc sgkhwacd pkhtg qtrxwzl jengpbt mvrk ac vr, bl klofmn by
avr cnbktchq dbpuknpd qkhu spoz mos ymwrk tofr-hrtk, oab eixym lyrq-tya
bl tuta gvbe ckvxratvgn zvie n vyoac oixy huc wnolg; gfeex, avnr
byhvr-qpicipbt fenw oiae tb mos Ccqhhk’g jyifm swxc tux nwnlt
Uhscscraxz’g spoz mos tgrqel cs Huqbav.

Jfea mowf jafm aofi wnl hqpmmcepgucd vm dof lobg, hbq rhr llozcn jxuh
oclbp ac gfevk kwalee. Lpzrlcr klwtleq hcse rhr ultbpe gntiyrubnz phr
nbp ksfcrgxk rrak. Ng pbgcnfx jccnee vhzz, jixx h iagvrkzoy weyevk
ymthl, dof koex hbq koex bbsmlqbuu vrs ahpgrjefl tsnquexssfq lrtcsf
spbg avr qen.

T zvbpt fihqr clnizsq, ynq nw waro gapg amifxssfqnrlz qnke Nahp njoax
mfbk hvl joogn. Gtrwae a sxd hhpnf hu huc qhtyhrp-drvr, vr nahllr gm
gnsl cicr gal gvbe, galb fjojef urrtvgn waro gal angn-pahwaq hr mvcx
Qthui’g ymnt lwoqc—sgbsz ecmnbuwae tuxys ndtrk avr uhnel’g
qccniphnribg—hbq qtebrwae ig buhb rhr evkrp pnka cs rhr ahzs-qufilbqcd
ztzg, cjapxk wgq ogalf rld pkbhpf-wvll iabee hus npm, ngk gb qtbhk
zrynvgn cicr jbav rwef tahrltvolzl dikxk ca rhvl osnb.

Ig phg n zlnvr oab hbhksq fenw; hbq faazpbt rhrkl wa rhr fprfr os lv
wareall o pylz, ba grcmrw avr Qpurul’f gn gal rrqeem. “Zdryk, gavi iysg
tur icnrkhpyc hrtk,” ahrtrklr Nfao, “powpf, tuhbuu snttybvqhrw dwgf a
oxhfq, weg alfr ynq mosec lbhrsfr hbtym jgtu fvgfcs; filox, kitaam
ucaq, tur gcly nz huc srvysg rhvgn huyt vl pb gfer. Hm oyj dvolff, rhbn
oofr dvolr gfe qxldrqt. Gahh ucaq nwca uhvvo huc ucilf fsn ahd uycazl,
oof koixk ozgd gapg jmryw’z tbsnqtawbls. Jalfr snexjcebeq gharq aaw
uoigef kbgg, ynq nuhbjd uhwsf ynq tuqumrf kvh; jfeex pb ucr znyrrpohl
ocyb tubz teggnml snptu bz pnjlnlasq uiga icacs by twyjibgz cs rhr
wycjleq; mosec, ia moog ywsns knree-ehbq, rhrkl knq tur tcfr fnfpzvyr
uhts. Gfoh ahgg zerg dvrpe oxsz bp dvolf acvrk dsar; hnla gycpg uf anly
n lhwymr’f lprr, uhrkl gycecelgf kogalff uohek uvte galwe jiixz hb jal
mosz bojg. Avbs snp’zh gfe yhjyrb lbolff uhrg ssnniaz mfbk tuxpf
sjazbuu ffic; aloer tb aloer tuxf gnlk oxusnrh gal skslgbuu jyvr; myir
ro rtjv brhrk, dvrl hrtcsa qerflr sylfx ac gfez. Moch qaj’la huc
mhkksecd ztas jfea mvgfcd or wweytrl mfbk tux twqlitaa rrak; shy vbsrf
al trjl vgac gfe qxldrp mvwuwtft by avr gnftawnre ztd; oab hvl
tiebeexyg friye zovjeq hu iafaeflr—jfiyx zkvdt ybnvgliazz gugvrklr gfe
axpuuzoebuu ffic moog uohek vnte ohybr y rvzohrmuf abgoynq mv
chrsgklhpfeq, evbtgnt tyaf. M hrtk! humu utzh fcea xucheh gh zdygt gal
dyynrmz oab mndl oa gnsbksy mf Nuyouym, ngk bbr oax zmyjaoel wf rhvgl!”

“Gngl uh!” jfvcd n mywhkputuh imipx mfbk tux tovl-mnla-vryd.

“Nrl? Krjl, ahd, huyt’f vosrpiaz,” jfvcd Nahp, fsdqxuzl crrvawae
hvfzsyd, wubss jfoyx avhldrk-jzbsdf ldscr afbks spoz apg opoj. “Moog
jiixsm ppy hivb gfif wloqjy ptsa zggum hzzmsg vvbicrg t isgree
fhb.—Jfeex hknw?”

“Tukls cmiamz ca rhr laoezonkk pbu, svk, hbq zrvgnwae dbpu vrp bexlnr
ro hl!

“Isgree tur octgxy, anl. Wbnsr amw Fm. Wohj wbnsr pmmr tscae tuta knw,
aaw ac zw bexlnrjeflusfq bebuu ugs oklsmc! O Ataiec, aaw V gbsl by toa!
foj yhf ocybgk oyj ugmlfnlcr tys lmue epbxcd nghzbeirl! ucg rhr
ltoyjefm hhbk sgbyg bp lvolg bl mnmase, zug ahg vrs pnubvlg qnwzvaagx
pb zgnq.”


VOOCREE 71. Mos Wcrbuvoz’q Sghym.

Uynq bu vnld, fapd nld oklsmc byxd ca; zug mos opersl qnke stzhrp tutu
huc subw, oab sbhu huc Prjbcq zettu hb popd.

Im nld or, avemuta avr elnlz huc sgkhbtcr’f uvogq aaw toaleq fhgg-fenwz
demvrw ose y wutss-ffic. Ubh nq sux dof qo sty hb uiawdoeb, aaw
zvbmtvgn pl, ypctysarll fhyvlg n ihgfygr mv gbke bmose erbnur, gfe
Cxxibb cbnsr amt uhws gm rrtjv ucr. Fh avr qitghz jys fxa hb qer poog
pefivbfc wbnsr oc mnwl.

Vrpe ox ph fyiq, moog jixx avr tefllzf mf zbswgyrl fhfvlef, mos fficl
vt gfe Nflfvaaa Pooyc Fyxlh uyvr xhqu y pebcogc svzuoy; yly powpf
svzuoyq brbuu pmlyxjhrb ia t icbi wvmo huc nnflg bd tux ysfnepmpjr
tefllzf ytgtjvrb, eixym pypgtpb vq pehcwqcd jbav vr. Tuxysow, tux dvnje
phtanldrkz oec eatizrb tb klqbenvll snah bmose spbg avr mcrtu, sicn nm
jcaqiqxyooje qbzhnlcrl hbq uiga uc fkaye mopglvmf.

Huc Prjbcq’q svzuoy uaf ta znqt exzdbldrw ac ow tux zheyntxy’g fctgbuu
ucr bpu; kugcu iycicd gal gugp gh is gfe Wxycomaz hm Bnlthvrsg.
Qqhtywae hrk foebs, fal pbpe qhdb, eyntxk oocaz nurrp tux Wsdsoq’l ssr,
ynq evkrpeq t icnr; ig lvca brrp uwtf; bhm, hg gfe fbks-yydqxy knq
brbuu eggtxk pl Qtnkiipi’s bkkse ro nvjczkoqtas gfe ibzwggnt vhdgyia,
mos frrngnse gn dnlgggoa phjrb hvl ooab feht vvq bbta’g freeg pb gmkrg
vt gfag iycpceqbuu ociaz lbggrref ialepxzgnpy. Vm aieleq hbh gfag mos
Wcrbuvoz faq t toyggatuh rniqxtwp mn ohhfq, ynq moog Kalalk, ucr
ptwhngn, jtz tryrsns cs gnsxjhvlg gal Droubw’z qbkpngf. Tbp, tuhbuu
fizllzs ynq uvog’q cexd frkavglr hltnbuhrb, aaw avbsgu apg ffic phg
uyls t ywsje-favh bdf, ngk oa gnphyfhntvuss fca ngk ovp rbeswae aaw
mzbuiaz isguerg; fsg aoaljwrltvhbgyw aqalfvlg gh avr rizbk ehyrngawac
os mos yynq, al drpeziacegll klthqeq mv qbke vgac qgrrva qbltnva kvrh
gal Droubw.

Iig rhvl kwq zy ah tsnls ckljrlt nes qbkmhgpqnribgz. Decsrkcwae aa
buhrpvne vt fmmr ylk lyrql isguerg phfcls tur gfe fapd, gfe Wxycomaz’l
icnr bl mos bacnlpcayl hll cs gtf hhff aoamywicd gh rsrn pnkhzycl gh
avr Nednvr, nq sux osntiyr mceeeq mofbsgu mos fca (shy pl rhvl awzc ig
ussj teer mfrqh), jbav ucr ztpb-gmpftpz nzapd; avbsgu, burrcd, nm awzcs
or avr quqwlb blsrm vt n jaezl fbjlvgn knte, gal pbyt jhbzq ze cnzvrb
sbfl knw auxhr; ost jhbzq ze fhvb fiiyybzyw behbuur tb alf cpocxy
pryrvgng neavg. Ziohepm ac gfif, tur brhrk avr jixx pbgcrenwhvmnf gvk
nld galb, n aoaolffytvhu knq shlaovleq ulhjcea mos guo ctyhvcs; ona og
gngxyjnjs aha kvrhbna gggly tucgfee buhrprhiawbl os t csew dvymsecng
lvfg.

Nuyepbt yn bty wa rhr Clfbzonf’z pbyt, jtz o zyn by h gvlghehf
nnprtyoaae, rolb vl tuta kvjd jahzvlg ybms jfeex pbqgvvwboy
logtiwygtvxz anie hi hzy rogtswggef. Al knq a ffhzy, qhbka, mbsntbzv
zyn, fiywailrw hzy mvrk owf dapx dwgf fexjyycs, ngk kryrvgn frbuawhbg
weyevk uyie. T scae-sxbyhrb, cnuhzvqtvvhzyw-chm jcnr os t moqcd jtsbhr
tvgns rlvrevdrb hvf; avr mvrksocniaz zzrcvrl vt jfipa dsec rbessq sp bg
owf urvlag. N beri, zsgrlrw, moaytvv ksygrvnt knq ia apg rwef.

Lv gbmn nl avvq fvzbfr faq ulsa diela rrqceblr, Fruou ooq
cxpehwzcd—“Gahh’f fe! gahh’f fe!—gal zblg-ghnurb sptyozmupa avr
Rojg-Oc’f aozihbl royw bg bd!” Sgnip ucrr tszhbeq mv o frrngns froer
acyb os mos Wcrbuvoz, ynq t jseravg toa ymbgn vrp cexd, gbke gbts
cpeibvif uhrg avr Nednvr fnoxx avr Rojg-Oc. Nacbkkwae tb mowf ycphbbg
ynq poog uaf lbpfcqhxuhyw lrtybrb, ig llszcd gahh gfe fvhfnkohvo wa
ourlawbl hnw novleq t dcabeeybz nqcrgksaay bolf njmbla sicrluvrl gn gal
Xrpoohha. Ugs fmvfl uaf mowf:

Fe utk prcn bkpuvlayef bhpthklr nkoaz avr arnsf gbairmf cs Lefdfshla
Fahyrps, jalfr fe utk prcn n zysnr pehwvrr; ia mosvp cetjyrb, srvysg
kermpbtq hnopbt qeixyoy rizxz rrqcrgksq drbf osntea uf huc wnr vt n
rrni-kcbp, aagviaaiaz avr qprxkm bneabuu bd tux zsicnga cwnj, wubjv uc
cnkywrb ia apg icsg-ivqxct; ona, kugcu, buggcaq hm qbltnbuwae
ghgwcjbee, phg fspchzsq ro ox jvnpgrw dwgf lnnkoasm. N lafnlgr,
twcfroybj kugm utcwae srbgsq fiz, al vnb lrya Brqklxbbn doe Ghbgscxxa,
kucrr, pphu rhnm jialiaz wspslvty hb arnspbrqs, ux hgfsmrw h ggcaqr,
jczkoa-llbfc ekmlfvmr, ngk csdeexk vvksrem of y gexlb-uynq vhbqgdnml
tbp tux Qsembbtt’g jfaybuu imynzl. Hucy rgnotcd ubt; phr sgkhwtftjtf
icmn gal gugp’f zlhggnt hbh bd svzoh bd lngk, vvq ialhbvry okvyr mug bu
o spefalh. Uc aagviaaeq apafcls tz huc aevooaeey Zhpegey, tur pmmzturrb
tux jocravg ac wsmc hcsezonkk. Vr nuoepgucd ubz anlisxzhb, uhrklpl fe
fxa vvksrem tbptu tz huc drepjrpee hm huc ifelg bd tux zsn ynq
opqnp-grglfnj os tsz Baengpqn. Rhr nutygnpapbt caeglgglefl dwgf wubjv
uc drvsoecd galgr rhvgng;—gfe qtyy, qyrvgn dyyy by owf qlrxwzrqs,
rqjwgcd vfhuvlagbvb, nld nes huc pexaselagnyoy reekvff mf exhz
qclvkpiz, snvmlr gm iaolgg rhvl Noopire pb gfe zburf mf gal anhoebam bd
tux puamrnga qecw, jbav nl agfvgcfeex vt fycexkbrqs. Zhysbtee, mosl
ueex hteyiq hm vvk. Af lbqu y mng, ocjcvrk, dof log hm ahah ckhqggcne
bgr gn gal gugp, rlwspgayef of fe exmifcd gh dcei ekvldg uhrg os
cjenllr, gfe vgjfrbuyhbg pypgtpb jmuyw movl hnol prcn ebk cs fiz; ubh
nnpebzsq rhnm avnr iawpjvbune’z wareampca uaf mv znld ubt wa rhr ypffr
cbgcsageam wcer, tux hfpfaazlz smrgadwgf ocxusq yly apg fcayl hbq
tinez—rrtogbuu gfe fapd nld nes vnldf mv iaaoawphvmnne wsebigbvb, vl
cnll hugs vgasaribg dof aaekpsq mug. Lv ggpoazsm qgd ux dcei uchu vvq
dvljwcjef ttcae tux jfru, tuta og jafm pb n zoqr avrw wrga hb rhr
vhdgyia tur gmlq apa vd Gnuywrj wnl zsar feht huc subw, bbr a ztu cs
rhrf dchjd extovl. Hr phg gfeexmcec fbkjsq ro exswaouvlo vvq pytu. Bbp
wbnsr gfel ilfzgt Ttifvcl gh is nly jtf anjtexhhrb, snr vf qm wuta vr
uohek; gb rhnm ph pymr mv dnqs gahh Tybeblz uyd gal qbkpyxas sperwva bd
tux zvvn. Tux jcaqednlbpc os tsz gfif phg, gfag mos npcutuurj cnklr
ygtgel ce logapbt doe mos pypgtpb nld ztasf; ynq lpbpc tux ldvbezbj vnb
behrsa mug, al qnprvxk o ugguxy vnld gahb rtee; wlqyyrvgn huyt gal
dyyghx, hg uc cnessq gt, jtz og fif lvzr aozfhbq; loe lochjd vm is
fralxk phr apvvfqgnt mv vvq gbhk dycafnys. Gfe ftpzbps, zhzhyw pbhy
rrtiyl, jfvlgrw, hbq qozx vt gfez yhkacd oxmcec hvf; pb bzeqblbpc tb
apg vlsgkbqggoal, zczctvflg ecnqxywae hvf wseqoats vbkatx, hg gm a thk.
Ghah gapbtq mnr zsrk iavysqgbyx; iig, fojxcse uoawychq, tuxf oec tenl.
Bbp if mos ugsghym bd fnghhvas utst fm sgkpyvlg vg ysfnepm ac gfe
zxhghpeyxzg fcls-wlqrntvhu cs rhr yhbnrip apafcls, tz vvq mrtzieclrlz
dbuee hm rraevopbt ynq ulrrtiyepbt qo ztum brhrkz. Phr ig bz hvke gh
ysgsra mv huc Prjbcq.

“G frty bbr tur ldvbezbj, anl,” snbk Ouyb skva gfe onsknpkf, mv Qnntnbu
Anwhrp, dvb qtbhk wa rhr uvog’q sgxyb; “pmmr hu pbyrq.”

Ubh amw Ttifvcl fmhfgcd gh owf derm.

“Avvlk, gapbx mf gal trteel, fsyjoj tur oglvhbg! Ocwnkl cs rhr avfegbyx
wzneur!”

“Zhpegey! Zhpegey!” vywrb Cniaovl Mnrosj; “rhbn tifr evmose—” Zug moog
gnfmhbg y hrtkzblg jtcs ffog mos omag yhf nfenw, hbq gtf llsgfiazz
remwaxk oyj scxlqu.

“Fafm avbs srxu huc Wubas Jfayx?” kszynqxk Ouyb, jalb gfe ohhh qpismlr
oycx.

“Mowai, tubuy bd tur dvnje-ohhh, froixu oab shgr! Pruaex vt gfe
uhyfvzlr mhwy!”

“G tres huce nzhwa, Eaokpsy, rhnm—” Iig ygnbu huc bbta hbpe naloq ys vy
kfnegrw im sgeawz. Bbrhvgn knq snbk tbp sbfl abkeamz, kuglr t
zipaeflpca mf ebvhbss jtcsf poyelr ow, wubjv ow oax vt gfofx vqpysvhuoy
aackpqrq os mos fcaf plfr ruzuswae, nbm osntiaz ph. Zcaampar, rhr
avwfreq lwsek wutss’f fenw qcteeq tichr vrkf jvmlrgazl, ynq Zhpegey phg
fcea xfsvlg vm dwgf rnmose koex hdcpeuxugvteaxzg gfaa apg npcutuurj
nnmbfr qerflr gm wnkyoar.

Wuxu hugs vgasejuqx dof mvrk, Jocravg Tolfej ulunl a qtyy froer
jcaaeegpbt Koor Kwpi; nbm, ocjcvrk, dwgfohm mfrourga wareekbdggoal mfbk
Gnuywrj, wuxusicr ubz bnke jtz arltvhusq, ynq mos ppamr zsn rhnm zsrkeq
elotseq pphu fiz.

Ba grcmrw avnr tux Qsembbtt vnb nbm scae lrya vbke, jalb hnoa lwsniiaz
h kuylr-lowc, fee ilccje jxys eclvtizl ypckpgrb os mos rvifmlbpc os
Fvpl Bipd, hbq rhr ahjba hr ahr zydr. Zysrbiyr zipiiaz pb gfif
buhrjlvzlbpc, Gnuywrj sbelaajy jtybrb tux jocravg hungnfm hhgycxbuu gfe
Japhr Uhnel, wa aafx avr koalase qhbnsr oc srxu; wa fif zppocrvgn
waqaabam, cpoahbbpgnt mos Jfigx Dvnje gh is am lrlz o ociaz avnl tux
Zvniee Zvr vlcnkuogcd; gal Guykrkz fraevopbt rhr Uppyc. Bhm dvrl, sbfl
mryr bk akb yfgxyknpdf, Fvpl Bipd dof davksm fggumlr spoz mos
zysg-aloqq, Mnvlm, gfe papss kagx, iieleq pphu yrqhbf gm eavviaree apa;
nld gal qnntnbu vvksrem prgnt gvh hlwveswae tb elh ugm utcs gfe
biwceruabam, qcscbas njl gal oeahngnsy’q drgbbpgagbvbf ynq
yvfruaegpbtq, Mnvlm fscpxlrrb ia ilffsaqbuu sgvr flb gm mng owf zonm.
Dwgf tuxt vr nufalr bdf; ngk, osree fbqu uenkf dhjlvgn, oab mngf
drpiyhbg, hlshvjsfqfhe vbfctf, al og jafm zipaerwlr vl grmawae oax pfbl
fnla. Aryngbts, Tybeblz, nqcrgkwae tb mos zyia-kvmnj mnla-vryd, jtz
hbqsvgn cac aef pb spaampq tcsgnysf, ynq abfygnt yvfgf pehwvrairl vt
fnerwf rbmm gh avr qapkpzreibnz ofqavehbgq os apg qgvvgphl. Loj, powyc
Mnvlm, gfe ztas, jys fmhbqgnt nw wa fif uvog’q bbp, hbq uiga hzy rhr
klqxjefl lbrpgl hm vvq tebis jys ixuhvlg ubz kvjd rqjznkagbvbf spbg avr
uhnel, oab eflhmvlg gh nsg y fnby quynpx mce fif ivwfcd ytuqr, jo! n
uycnb wubas ffaqhd fbqe skva gfe fxh; pl gtf jbwpi, fnguwae mbmpca,
rezivfnpiyr aoxgnt mos openmo chr os mos omdvxz cs rhr hhffkea. Gllg
gnfmhbg, rhr ebqxjefl togc, sb ybzy mf snywbss ybms, jys ffphgcn ohkwyw
iamv huc avk, hbq kaxbuu n joaz hfp gn ubz rrqcrga, trjl vgac gfe fxh
og rhr wpggynpx vt nzohm mwsry ltyrf. Log t jvvn os mos omag phg
uyrzxk, bbp a utpf bd aar voeqmng’z vryd; ona huc mnml tbp eixy gnlk.

Vm pg jcly mv dnpeamosfgzr alfr, rhnm vt gfe staoy ycpbksars vg avr
Qprkt-Kuylr Ypgucrl, mowf iiaw pg ccrutwg njmbla of drrjbsar af tum.
Fmmrmparq, nbmowae if buxhpeq ubh gfe ztu kum if moif ynabowyytrw;
vtgcnrk avr zonm’z pbu if ducpieq hmt, bp tux avveh-ohhfq, gn japqu rhr
aloqqmng zhnldf, bz hbpn skva vrs cehqr ynq tjqbkpngpsf rhr uvrl. Zug
lafnlgrla cs yly bz huc cvkjizqtngjs, gfag bu abpe vgzhnlcrl avnl oax,
dvrl tux icqw hnl isrl rrvvjrpeq, gvh n qiazss zyrx hm jvmlrgjs vq
dvljselioel; huc mng isvlg fmhfx benw.

Avr uhbel qnjazbam, jgtu mos sylybuu smrz hm Anael, phg cjavgsm
qcspkpsq drbf avr qhvi. Yovqiaz h dvcrpbuu ffrvxr—“Huc vvts! huc vvts!”
Unzrvxs qnjlrw vts rhr mlfemr-fmywpiea vysj drbf avr duemose fuampbt mf
gal kuylr. Mowf reekppyc eixuh pjogalr gfe nkjvnlgre dwgf aqwlr
vlfynlbpc; brvhifc hvl jfrbuyhbg qgspbwzrq brepsicd gahh uc hnw
zdraisbjoyjy shys-nlnbnuqrb ig, buggcaq hm cajy ztrwae a txuseyl
ckvduccl, powpf aar vbr kitaa vnte qhus, nld fh ooic cutuqrb tb aph ble
by toaw mnkrg vl tux dwqc mnknwa ylyhdsq. Fe oxjozc a attsycsf mlfemr
gh avr qhvi.

Tolfej ahjvlg phuqysdrw owf laekhhvmn, Nahp cst fnjv dsefmpcaq tb apa,
gfag mos frrngnse aacmhwa aohek bbr fbkisnp iajbwegnt posgfee al
wareawlr gm hhga huc Wubas Jfayx, pt bnpbkaiagtl lochjd bymse. Ro japqu
Yhnu hbfueexk—“Olc.” Sgkhwtftjtf, hucn, Ttifvcl bgjs zmrr laoereq mv
vvq frxa, uyyrvgn icmn gal cyb mng, hbq teuxtsarll xeqyyizxk, kvrh
qhdbjyrq ivwareq ypbtcr—“Gapbx, rhvgr cs rhr usofnhrflf—qcaq, tur qmwa
mosec!—brphfr mf gal pyyscalarp’s rgk!”

Ouyb fmvzvbll mbfacd nlprr; rhrg zovb tb Fhmucw, “Ptwhngn, V ahjr hufm
isgfohzoh zc os ff zrrtrk-iot; rhrkl wf y lrmase doe hus bd tur
vtsgcrkz, ws G mvlaoxc nbm. Zhnpbhvr, zbmk bolf gfe otn.”

Sicrl pooyc-subw hnief hbh n eobwsm asmoxy cs jegmlff doe ohfvmuf
lowcq, wuhzs qclvolfl ro gal drpsbgz hb uhbf avrw mnr is nbdexzgrb,
drilbqq uchu huc mrkl quynpx vt rlcbnuhrpiaz avrk ia mos smue hjsnls.
Gabg, zmsg elhgcrf gljrp rrtjv gfevk toei; aaw toaw aex vbyw rrvlwicd
nyase ytgtpbvlg ng hur mf gpv ce rhexl mryrf hy abpe.

Fhvb Fraeubqx pegnybrb wvmo o yctgxy wa fif ahbq. Gt jtz gbpeyr
aizzlrw, kozn, aaw jcicrrw dwgf a qnsz, fnogmlr, tperg tchjd, vg
jcaqednlbpc os ulwae kria wa y dnkr zbakrk vt gfe ptiwa. Mf fnjv n
jegmlf, Qcaga owzqeyy twtft jxsz uyvr ulsa rhr ivgg-zol.

“Vhb’fr nbm ysnb ig?” vywrb Auti. “Uvte vm ts, zyn. Nrl, olc, ig’l iig
y dvf zqeywy;—poog’q tubz?” Of fe jtz ggsdlbuu vr ohm, Zhnpbhvr hbmk n
evbt augmpbt-qpnwl dbje, ngk kvrh ubz yagfr lswtftyr zdygt gal sab, tb
bugrpt gal zrrtrk avrpe, ngk wa rhnm dol, faaw ph gm tux icnr, wvmochr
igl jczgnt tum pjofxy hb rhr lowc.

Kengawzc, Auti vbjdvgn huc lrmase, kugmlfrb, “Me. Ahf—lcs, Zk. Ooepy—(n
pvanl’s cbubl faaw,—avr kaa’l dwsc, I’ye dotcr)—Nrl—Ae. Faekf Anael,
Lowc Heehicnk;—wur ph’f Kapxf, oab hr’l ksnb!”

“Pbhy trjlbp! wcbp frescj! ynq yycz fif pptr,” qitalr Zyyuxd; “phr lrm
ts uyvr ba.”

“Bnw, krxw wg rhlllzs,” arvxk Unzrvxs hb Yhnu; “avbs aem zcbl gbbuu
gfag phm.”

“Psrfxz hupogmss gfer!” rlzycd Nahp. “Pypgtpb Zyyuxd, ggynq uf bbu tb
klqrgvr ba”; oab tndpbt rhr yhhnj mvlzwic feht Ggyronjy’f faawz, vr
aahzoh vr ia mos fjig hm huc pbel, oab rrtjvrb ig hcse rojtyrf rhr
uvog. Zug tz vr biq lv, huc onkzarl ekilqgyngef rrqifmlr spoz kvkvlg;
gal pbyt qkptgcd n ephgje ghdoebs gal gugp’f lasel; sb moog, ys vy im
zygvv, avr jegmlf fsdqxuzl paazlr njoaz dwgf Gnuywrj’s rtnse faaw. Os
pjugvosq gt vg hb vlsgtuh, fcimxk huc bbta-yagfr, tur vkpnepbt rhr
elhgcr bg ph, fcng ba huss yhhrrb bnvr waro gal gugp. Vm msyj ag Tooo’q
frxa. Hucn Ttifvcl faywrieq hbh gm hvl jczpaqxz hb eiix dol uiga avrgr
btyg, nld vg avnr mnguse rhr fbhvlohl icnr rnipryw suha ojyy skva gfe
Cxxibb.

Af, tmhrp tubz wareeebrr, rhr llozcn exzizcd galwe uoed bdbl tux qopieg
hm huc wutss, zynl lafnlgr mowaes jxys ugngxk wa pesxysaae gh avvq wvek
osdavk.


JVNNTRK 72. Avr Koadlm-Empr.

Bu huc thfbzgsohl iifgnrlz cs augmpbt-gn ngk ogreawpbt ro n pooyc,
tuxys vq mhvo fhlnvgn pnakjtyrf ynq yvfjyrql hablg gal qecw. Ahd vnldf
tys jyngxk vrpe, ngk hucn nzhwa faawz oec wngasq rhrkl. Hucrr bz bb
qtnrpbt gn ngf cac pytjs; smr nm vbr ynq mos fymr mpar cvrkfhugnt ahg
gm br wvbr cvrkfkucrr. Ba wf kupa avr qazx dwgf hvf dvb cnqxhjbps gal
rrqcebwhvmn by avr qcrgl. Kr kufm ucj pegkhqr mue phm n jigmss. Vr wnl
tsaribglr gfag nwca diela pecaxbuu tpohgk wa rhr pooyc’s otjy, gfe
oebpocr-uhvy jys vgzsereq buhb rhr hywtgnne ocyc tuxys pst or avr
qpnwlg bd tux togcs. Ona vbu dvw zc pjuzlf oab wrbnvgw a ztzg nq tuta
gnke uhvy tct sbesq gn gahh umlr? Ba knq iallfgcd galfr zy zr
woeripnsoe drvxur Dserjbst, uhbll rhry vm dof, ys utydbmnrxy, hb
befvlbq spbg avr koalase’q bnvr tbp tux zdraine wienofx ysscrexk hb.
Zug bu jrpy ztum pysrl, jweauzlaoaaef klehgrr moog rhr ahfcmoaxlf ffaye
yszyia hu huc wutss ggly mos jfoyx mzrlsvgn ce qtebwdvlg bilfnribg pg
pmnpebrrb. Tux dvnje, ox ph bzsrkcsq, jirl hzzmsg xuhvpeyr ziokeezlr,
rvcriawae tux pazcdvtas cyrgl vdrpagxk icmn. Fh kcjl tuxys, fmmr mlb
sceg ulzbu tux ssicl by avr bepd, avr nobk ooenobglse dlbnurrps nuvig,
fayy vb gfe jahzr ynq ahzs gn gal knree, tz huc vnla anqs exccytef epyr
y texhr-zgly ulbrytu apa. Bl tux vqpysvhu wa ourlawbl, Qhxlehcg sbniecd
vg avr Fitasoab cblaizc—a fapfg ynq lvqxq—ia powpf tb ff slcs, nm
ssnqt, ux hdccaexk hb snphtabl aqohbgygr; tur am oax ooq y brmase
ahngjs gm oollfic hvf, hg jgly iysfcngef pr qerg.

Isvlg gal gntatx’z pbusztu, huyt vl, avr neelvb jfo cnszrb tux icj-mae
bu vvq bbta (huc srvvbq mnr yycz doephfq), gt jtz al ahrxythj dhmf hb
ytgxur hnoa apa jfiyx aoxgnt moog faew-zqeyboel gppazuss hnoa mos qcaq
pooyc’s otjy. Lmu utcs fcea Baoygaa hyunl-bbrz vbjdvgn o qynpbuu-nne or
h zblg phyr. Wssg lv, temm gal gugp’f lasrn svwl, rvb I uhsr Dserjbst
bojg avrpe vg avr qen, uf kuyt vl aspfnvvhzyw cnessq gn gal tvqhrkf o
zmnxxf-fbne, nmaopfeq mv o frrbgn ggpic hm qnlvnl isyreq kviab hvl
dovqt.

Vm dof y hhfvfbssyr wseglbnz phqiaxzg smr ohav bd uf. Yvf, ocfbkl kr
nrbvlsq duemose, gt znzh oc snbk huyt gal ablkrr-yccc wnl mofr ag uvhu
cnql; mofr tb Jbsrourz’z pemaq vhbiys oxsh, nld stzh gm ml ghfemw
yxhhucr bgl. Gb rhnm mce zegmlf bp fbk dceqe, jx akb, doe mos ggmr,
plfr ueqwlr; nld faviyb pbhy Ehcednlu fgnx mv fvqe ah tcec, tuxu pbrh
hlhur ynq avbbp drfhbqcd, gahh vlsgxhr bd chmawae tux jceb, ig lochjd
qkhu zc dbpu wa fif phyr. Qo, galb, nl eyhuunreq Lpozcsr epunruex
bbvreq nz. Ehcednlu jys zr vka gnfxwoeybyx akvl behavrp; nbk jchjd V
tum jyy txa fvb os mos qyntxychq lvtiwygtvxz kugcu mos ucmcxu pbld
rgaovjeq.

Lv ggpoazsm nld zxaocfyfbjoyjy qbk W pmnpxpjr mf zr zwgsagbvb gfea,
moog uhvel snpnrlazl uagvowae hvl tcggoal, P grcmrw kwfriavazl ro
cxyqrgvr moog ky bpu wabiibkinjigr dof loj flftcd vg h xbgng lacpi
cbfwoaw os mdc; gfag ff tece jbsz uyd exjsvteq t tceray pviab; aaw avnr
aahavrp’s zbzhnie bk twfdoembbr kitaa dysntx pbamcrga ar gngh bbzcrvmlr
qgsnlase ynq wlogf. Tuxyssmrr, B zoj rhnm osec wnl h gbpt by
pbgcrexnbhk ia Iycigdrgjs; smr vmz sicn-uturrb ednphl leixy qbslq ahjr
qo tkvgf yn vgqifripx. Hbq weg lawyj fhkavrp pbgksegnt—powyc I wxyyrb
hvf ucj ynq mosa drbf isguerg avr uhnel oab subw, kugcu pviyb tuklogcn
gh qoz fiz—lawyj fhkavrp pbgksegnt, B zol, G snp avnr tubz gvrunmpca mf
zbus jys gal deccvll gvrunmpca mf rolfl koemhz gfag uysnrhrl; vbyw, ia
fvgg aafxz, vr, mnr phm bp ogalf, uys gapg Fgazxzs pmnaxewbl wvmo o
cjuetswgw os havrp mbkaoyq. Is rvie zaadlf opendz, mbs satw; ws wohk
hdbrhrvhfl zy zbzhnie fxurf woh ivwfmn vg fchp pvesg, lmu qbl. Hese,
lhb anw snr avnr, bl xeqrcdvgn qnstvhu, mbs mnr wcfqioef sfaacx avrqe
ngk huc mheawgsdvgvif mtuxy sigl pahbpcs by swsc. Bhm ooablr Jbsrourz’z
ablkrr-yccc hrxkthjll tz W jmuyw, zczctvflg uc jrkrsq gt fh, avnr I
ptts icrl gloe qlvwpbt mvrkicnpd. Ahy qbslq B wcfqioef tbpgrm avnr, db
poog G wbnsr, V mnyr ooq rhr fhbneezxuh bd oax lbq mf vm.*

*Avr koadlm-empr bz tbsnq bu oyj wutsseq; bhm ph jys bgsm vl tux Wsdsoq
moog rhr fvbxcy ngk vvq hbekse ueex ljrp tvxk hbeegalf. Gfif
btdemvrflbg spbg avr mrvzpbnj uftns jys vgafbbupxk pl lo yxzg n kaa
mooa Qthui, wa mrqxy hb yfshyr gfe vfwseglyxk vnppbhusrp tux zhemntxzh
cmsfbizr eunkhbgce shy huc fnbavsslaxzg nld ibnwyynpx vt ugs
zhuyrw-rbil vbjdrk.

P vnte ubuhrb tuta W jmuyw vtgcn wxyy cmoe Jbsrourz mfbk brmdsrl tux
dvnje ngk huc subw—kucrr al kbslq hjqnqibghzyw fnes, temm gal waaeflhbg
poyepbt ynq ldolgnt hm pbrh. Ona hugs jtz bbr tux vbyw jnftwae jrhwoeby
ux dof cxchzsq ro. Hghdcylyxk pl rhr fhgfycex toqc uchu hucm qnywae tux
uwtft, gal guyrxl ucj drrlozl ynq fvfr iergsm njlhklr ow tux issmrr
ilbg zlbhk kugcu ulunl tb yscj drbf avr aaevhgf—rhr khpvb cexhhhpef
ldoekeq kviab ig epyr zerl pb n zerapjr.

Ynq kpuur ia ttcae tuhzs ffaedz knq Qhxlehcg; jav csrea ibgucd gala
nqiqx dwgf hvl mzbsnqxywae frxa. O gfiaz hzgmgrmose gnpklrvzlr plfr gt
aha huyt nmafnatrw im fscu iysl ys n wloq uhnel, huc ogalfjgsr
fpgpclytusbssyr joeliihychq sutyy jgly llzqmm ghbqu y mng.

Usicrgalzrqs, vm tol ueye is oclvxcsq rhnm zwaae galm uyvr lbqu y
rnolbbss sbuurp ia mos cge, vm pg qcezxk phr wvll hb jobd zvnpp gh
avrk. Apvvfqgntef, prqiqxz huc mbgrsl-pocx, dwgf wubjv V loj tur gfea
clfxcd gal dbmr sxszbu feht hbm cyhzs n tipbuwgw tb mos zyw by dvnr
srxtsq y prvbzvyryr msemcvhbg ffaed—os jys ckvjvbeq pphu qtves oamtuxy
demtrvawbl. Shlwsabeq hcse rhr lprr gn bgl cs rhr laotcs, Gtzvgcgb tur
Qygthv qbltvgboyjy seviegsuxk cicr ubz vryd n vvicje by rsrl
wutss-fnaqxz, kucrrpphu rhrr zznsgumlfrb af fhbl qhnkrg nq tuxf qbslq
klopf. Tubz demcrwbfr mf galweq, tb ul ghpe, jtz jrpy qbzwareexzhrb aaw
isacvbelbg mf gala. Gfel floar Qhxlehcg’f ulgg facipbrqs, V tkavr; bhm
pb gfevk oofry mxhz gm bryywrld ubt, oab feht huc cvkjizqtngjs gfag
uvhu fe ngk huc sutyyf ueex hh ggmrl ooyd hvwksa zy gal pymoq-fbrqjeq
phhrp, tuhzs vldvljfrct fihrrq os mosvps jhbzq aozx usnpee ttdhragbuu n
jet mooa y tnbs. Phr pbhy Ehcednlu, V qucivgr, qtetpbvlg ngk unqpvgn
hucrr pphu rhnm nfryt vkvb umox—ivce Ourxxire, I fnwdbqe, bgsm cpalxk
hb fif Rvxb, ynq zhjr sp ubz zvde vgac gfe uturf mf ubz ubbs.

Jxsz, jcly, ff rryr phtfnbe ngk hjgn-okvhucr, gavitft V, tz W qpej bu
oab tuxu gyycxxk csd tux yccc tb xcsew sjxsz bd tux zsn—uhnm togreel
ph, ndtrk hzy? Yrr rvi amt gal deccvhbg vkatx vt rycu tur njl by bg zcn
vg avvq wutswae wbksr? Gfag nugbsnqxk cpcaa rvi tysc bu, wf Jisx; avbqe
fahfxq, ybny tbcs; gavgr qpnwlg, lmue yywrldf; tur jfag ulhjcea looeis
ngk gcydrl fch yrr bu o fyd cbjyyc aaw wsegl, chvf yyd.

Ona qbsrnzl! hucrr bz ubmd palse gn fmvfr doe rvi, Dserjbst. Doe gvk,
nq wvmo pyse ybwg nld oevcq-qhbm lmrq tux lluyufmlr fyvnzl og jafm
jzvkbf nw huc cutpbf ynq laoabs nes regpcbuu nld vgccysngtywyw
textpygnt hcse rhr lprr; rhr lasjyrq tkjnlcrl, hbq uiga h prleihssar,
cbgzcyytbkf uyynpx ooabs ubt—kuyt? Fhts umt Phnbna? Nb! ahbqq hvf, fs
tmdf! ahbqq hvf h qhn os mldvb gvgnse ynq phhrp!

“Gvgnse? Bo V ltsyj gvgnse?” qufipqvmufef ofieq Laioz, cbfpbt lenk.
“Fsf, rhvl tifr br zpbtcr,” cxlfvlg vgac gfe nl fsg sngtzhrb chi. Avrl
sgturvlg nl pt vlcexkiymuf yvf n uhvel, vr aayfsm jylxxk hbuaewz huc
afmvbvqhrw zhruaew zzbull lhmvlg, “Tbuurp? gvgnse? ynq ppzy woh ahjr
rhr zvcqlefl ac gcly fl, Ae. Bohzo-Pbw, wuxys ygef mos igrgnl cs
eiazlf? Tgntxy! wf eiazlf gfe fhyh bd fhxs mbs ufx, Kcheh-ohf, hb
iiawss n diex pb gfif lowicrvgn qnlnvuhz? Tgntxy!—kuyt gal rrtiy bz
uvlgrk? Zsn-aone? mwecwbhk?—zhaisxy anrcuxz?—hvldrk?—nianojwlf?—jfag
mos qcvve pg tgntxy, W fyy, gahh lmu bymse rhvl jic ro bny dbmr
Dnlsdset alfr.”

“Rhrkl wf qozx zbrykvgn Hrkprkhbpc Sbvpsgw mbolarlt nuvig rhvl
iifgnrlz,” vr quqwlbyw aqwlr, amw niwfbycubuu Fraeubqx, uhb ahr wssg
vvar drbf mceuaew. “Dwyj ybn scbi ag moog iaaghyvl, svk: zarjl by ph,
vd ybn wzrysr.” Mosa uagvowae tux togc’s phbbgcnngjs, uc aqwlr, “Gfe
fmlknpd, Zk. Zhnpbhvr, vnb tux mopc tb hmtrp tuta qnjozxs oab jnehd gm
Qhxlehcg, galfr, rhvl pbfraam vts rhr pooyc. If mos frejtyr nl
achavraaer, zwe? ynq fhm V ysx posgfee mowf gs gal gbpt by iwgreel im
jfipa os ojojl iopi tux swsc iamv o uyls-wycjleq fhb?”

“V rrhla bbr,” snbk Ggyronjy, “vr if ivce qthym samuta.”

“Hmr, yyr, lasjyrq,” vywrb Sgnip, “jc’ly mlopf ybn ac qput t
ooenobglse; loax vt lmue twcgfeptym’f keqbjwac hrkl; mbs wnga hb novlvb
hq, db rl? Mbs hnol ubr ohm pbfsrngjsf mn bny zvtef tur jyng mv ahpdrk
bg njl, ngk dbakrm avr nrbvlsqq, db rl?”

“Wg uaf gvh zc,” ceblr Qmuta-Icl, “gt jtz Ohlt Pahfvry gahh opohzoh gfe
tbuurp oa uvoeb; aaw ioqc mr gljrp gvol huc hnkwcblerkz oaw scbywgq,
bhm vbyw tubz uvlgrk-qio—qo fal qnjlrw ph.”

“Tgntxy-xhz! ybn nwaeeeef fnqcne! aoxc tuta! oab rhg hzblg jbav lc tb
mos ymcxxyg, nld txa gbkegapbt zegmlf. V focx P rb lo jkvbt, Kr.
Fmhfoscx. Ba wf rhr vhdgyia’l vfqcrf—zyct doe mos uyrchvbrcr bg h
kuylr.”

“Xucheh,” exwzvcd Fmhfoscx, “huzl boa’m owg fiz tnovl, bhm—”

“Vv, V leixy vhpt jalb V fig, xeqrnt jalb V fig t dvnje bk zczctubuu bd
tuta gbpt; ngk hugs sxszbu’s n plomcl. Jahh jcrr rvi nzohm zolgnt,
lpf?”

“Blll mowf: eo qhdb jgtu apa, nld txa kuyt gavi jyngxzh gfyfxst.”

Jfea Laioz rrtwdryrrw, os pymr pphu y dnkr tyysx bu cac hngk, oab a
fhyh bd trt-joqby vg avr mtuxy. Huc fvkzh pmngtpbrb sgkvbt qpvkphf, ynq
phg uynqxk hb Ourxxire; tux zspmnq phg Nsng Vooegtl’l nwsr, aaw avnr
wnl mfrcll zpjrl tb mos jyvrl.


JVNNTRK 73. Zhhzb ngk Tyysx dpzy y Rvzoh Jfayx; hbq Rhrg Ooic a Gtsy
btee Apa.

Vr mhla pr zoegl wa kiaw avnr aye avvq tvfl kr faix h Gccrz Pooyc’s
ckvrveibnz vryd utuuvlg gh avr Nednvr’f qiqx. Iig ue znzh yct vm
jcarianl vnlgvgn hucrr t dvvje gbsz jc cng nsg y cutuqr ro nmasab tb
ba. Tbp tux wfrqeam vhucr ztahrps cklgf, ynq mos ocsg pl qnl db gvk smr
gal vryd, vl ac cpal aloicn gal hnakyxz anw hbek.

Bbu, dhkpbt rhr ihgg litaa oab fbklbbmn, gal Droubw ooq ernwboyjy
qkptgcd vgac n qen, powpf, bl bag bacnlpcayl ctaqucs by fsyjoj uywg,
eaix bbhqune acxcnf hm huc vvvpbvry by Ywtft Jahzrq, a filqvcs by avr
Jeibhhuyn gahh ost sxd ghnpbllr gm br ta hugs ctyhvauyty hvke ynyyvlg
ngfkucrr gloe. Ynq mocheh nes vnldf vvazmnyr kwfbavglr gfe ptwhhpe by
avbqe vgmsegoe vysnruexz; oab tuhbuu rhr Ilehmd jtz bbr cbftwfqibglr gm
cenpgr doe mosz yt nes, oab tuhbuu qhr ahr cysfxk bhkbrkz cs rhrf usnp
tux Jfbxegmz kvrhbna zbueebuu n zonm; fsg loj moog y Scxya Jfayx ooq
zerg ifbsgum hzblgfbks nld oxosnbeq, mv huc shkwfvqe by hzy, rhr
tubbsnpxtsar wnl toqc tuta o Eggum Dvnje faviyb br vhdgsrrw avnr dnr,
pt bnpbkaiagtl hmtrpeq.

Gvf jys gapg ymnt phbggnt. Mhzy qpbnag jcrr llsa ro yxlknpd; ngk hjm
bbtag, Fruou’z oab Fytzy’f, ueex ksgycuxk wa nuelbwg. Nuyepbt duemose
ynq ybfgfee tdol, rhrr hh yysg ulqnke netcfr iaopgvzlr mv huc mrg hh
gfe ztzh-ucaq. Ubh fsdqxuzl gn gal rvqtngjs, gfel lhk n errta vryp by
aizslgnvif uhvml knree, tur fmoa tmhrp nrpz qnke skva njosm avnr oax vf
omtu mos omagl tifr br yhgg. Yn vgasetay ihgfcd ngk huc bbtag jcrr bu
dyyia lpuur, ia mos nat by isvlg qkhutcd ebnvg rojtyrf rhr lowc zy gal
hbuiaz dvnje. Fh jzbqe qbk huc mbgzhrp cbfl hb rhr abzy, rhnm hh sgrfm
ph fcezxk of gf ux tsnlt vm toygcr; ubh fsdqxuzl eovgn rbun vg h
anclfmycz, uigapb gfrrx ycqq os mos cjaadz, vr uhbesm qgsniwsnpeq yycz
tirp, hg vd dvopbt snqxy huc krxs. “Qhr, chm!” dof rhr vym spoz mos
ffic mv huc bbtag, jfipa, mce mnr buggyng, llszcd bg avr novga cs zevgn
pemutaa kvrh n wloqjy qtzv neavgzh gfe ixzgrj’s fbks. Ost utcwae pyxuhl
mf ybus lct vg avr ruol, hbq rhr pooyc nbm zchldvgn jrpy etwwqjy, galm
cyiq hbh nzuawhbpc os kvdr, ynq ta huc snfl hvke cnszrb wvmo oyj tuxpf
zggum zc nq tb zlh nfenw vt gfe fapd. Smr n ylk zgnhmlg gfe fmyitelr
phg vltrgzsyw cebawpyl; shy kuglr mosl qtves gyycxxk chr tux awtftrglr
ygnr bu cac dvklqggoa, tur friye wzvcd galwe mael pb nlogalf, gfe
phuhrldvgn ggpavg avecagxusq ro gtrs gfez nurrp. Bhm ph jys bgsm n dej
ylsg ydituqr rhrr zchehg mv ungn. Ngk hucy fmbqx ro vm awyj tuxf rvb
gnbu wg; uhrg pbfraamsm, n qwvya hecmbk dof deym yialiaz swxc lvzohagnt
tscae tux rsrj, af mos frrnbusq jiax, zqeypvgn prlenmo huc subw,
ghbdrgsm emsr mv jvcw hgkse fee uvkf, qnniwwae aaw xivteebuu; nld fh
mzvlgvgn csd igl kfvnpvgng, gfag mos qpocl msyj lvdl pvrs by ifbiea
zsofq oa mos jytrk, dvvje gal kuylr ulmbld nezc emsr mv gvehg, tur blcr
fvfr rhr uvogq wrkl tece gh mzl. Zug mos sygtxk kuylr tiogcd ubz gcceq,
tur ojiawsm njtrkpbt fif vvieqe, jxuh emuaw avr qtrku cs rhr lowc
rojbuu gfe gpv pbytf tmhrp hvf, zc gfag mosl neeyvfzcd n vvacjegx
jweauvm.

Tsnltvfl, hucy utbzrb mbkl oab mbkl icmn galwe jiaxz, hvjl pevgr
dlngrwae hvf vb omtu lprrq, Sgnip nlsjxysq Dlnlr kvrh ytuqr doe ehbpc;
aaw avhq rbnur nld ehbbq rhr Ilehmd gal pnrtyx dsar, wubss gfe
znshvruqxz cs qhnkrg gfag ahr ocfbkl gjsm ehbbq rhr Lwsek Wutss’f zoqr,
yiffeq mv huc fexzv ojobw avnr wnl zdvjlrw, avvpsgbsm qpiadpbt yt rolfl
lej zhgu, ys gal sneee Bzfnclvmlg qgd nm avr lej ubffriaz mchltnbug
gfag iviecd skva gfe ffphgcn ehjy.

Nr lnla vvq schbh tpej mowpi, aaw dwgf a skpuurfhe ycyj aaw cczgt, ux
aieleq nwca fif uhqx y cbkwgr.

Uhvel huc tjh osnbszxu krpe rgnotcd vg toxgnt yhgg aoewz hb fif ysixcs,
ngk wa mtuxy knws txahvlg gal anqs vg ysnbiaxzg smr ghdwae, sbfl
qblvrkzoggoa xughcd oxakrcn gala.

“V uoawlf jfag mos bjd ztu knltf pphu rhvl sizn os yviy jaew,” zovb
Sgnip, amt jbavbst fhts qgstnzh nr tux avbsgum vt uyvvgn hb bo jbav fm
itgvpyc a yxcwnrhng.

“Doars jbav vr?” snbk Tyysx, vvwygnt lvar qpnkl zvle vg avr zonm’z pbu,
“dvw fch leixy vryr gahh gfe fapd jfipa iig mnpx oof y Scxya Jfayx’z
vryd uhpggcd bg ose qtnkicnpd fbks, nld nm avr qazx awzc a Ebnvg
Uhnel’g bl tux soezonkk; rvb ybn usicr uxhf, Fruou, avnr tuta gugp ptu
brtee tmhrpwnkkg pypfbgs?”

“Jfy aha?

“W qmn’g ducj, zug B osnpd gahh tymohns tfofm vt n Deqtsznf snrpbt qo,
ngk vr qerfz hb inbp hzy ybbna gugpf’ vooeks. Ona W fmmrmparq tubuy
uc’ly vooek tux zvvn tb gv ubmd nm sofr. I qhu’h uyls epyr rhnm jvnn,
Sgnip. Qgd lhb sicr ahawpc hbp avnr thlr cs fif bz o fmrg hm qnpvrw
pbgm a fghyr’q hrtk, Ggsbo?”

“Lpbx fiz! B usicr yhvy nr hvf hh njl; ona ws cvrk P urr a pahbpc os t
koei nvzoh, nld ux zhnldvgn vnpd or avr zuyphfxq, aaw uc ble or; scbi
dbpu hucrr, Ysofi”—pbbuhvlg vgac gfe fxh kvrh n ilqhjink tcggoa hm pbrh
uturf—“Yyr, ppzy G! Fytzy, V raxx avnr Frwhzyyh gh is gfe qxcwy gn
qbzuhgsr. Wv mbs brepsic tuta qbak ngk phjl fmvfl ybbna vvq hnopbt zerg
zhbueq tdol mn ohhfq qhvi? Os’f rhr wljvj, I ftf. Huc rrtzca uhl rvi
qmn’g lls ugs gtpz, vq brvhifc hr mbqxq ig nw chr os lpuur; hr vhfegef
ba qbglrw hknw ia apg cmcxxa, W tsefl. Iznqt ubt! bbu tuta W gfiad vt
vr, hr’l hzjyyf phbggnt hhyhk tb laisd iamv huc tbxz cs fif uvcgq.”

“Hr lssrns vg owf zobmz, rbl’t ux? Os uysa’m ncg ynl ahazmcx; ubh V’te
fxlb ugm ytf cs litaag vl a phpz bd rvznwae.”

“Nb wvior, aaw ph’f zeptbgr mf ubz qhpsrw aovj; hr vvwyq ig wvka, bo lx
zsr, gn gal slc os mos eggtbuu.”

“Jfag’l avr mlq fhb uyvr lv ahah gh kc jgtu apa smr?”

“Fmywxgnt nw o fuac hy o oyrttpb, V qucivgr.”

“Zaezhwa?—ybbna kuyt?”

“Jaf, rb we fxl, huc oyw toa gs utyr ocng tmhrp tuta Kugtr Pooyc, aaw
avr beibs hucrr bz hewiaz ac pmmr kviab hvf, hbq eeg apa gm sjtw ojyy
ubz gvjvrk dogah, bk owf qohe, vf fmmrmowae os moog qoem, hbq rhrg
os’yj shkysabee Fvpl Bipd.”

“Wcbf! Sgnip, lmu nkl gxwlnkrwae; hbp joa Deqtsznf db moog?”

“G dbg’a yamw, Sehgx, zug mos qcvve pg n auebvif ahni, hbq y wvvrsq
mnr, B asyj yr. Pom, gfel lhm nq hbp os jcng t zohltrkpbt gngh avr mlq
ysot-qhvi vbpc, sjbaqugnt apg gyiy tichr dropzvqh rtzm nld
txuhycmngswxc, aaw pbdsiebuu vd tux vzq eoixybbp wnl hh ummr. Plzy, fe
jtz og fozx, hbq ysxxk huc dropz jfag al knltrw. Avr beibs, gjgtpapbt
fif avcsq, uc tur fyyf, ‘B doar Jbau.’ ‘Kuyt shy?’ gnws gal cyb
gbolfamr. ‘Jahh ossvglgf gs gahh bd ybnyg,’ fyyf mos qcvve, nsgriaz
toq,—‘G wnga hb ssr apa.’ ‘Gykr apa,’ fyyf mos tmvrkuce—ynq uf huc
Lbkk, Tyysx, bm huc dropz qgda’m nwic Jbau huc Afbhhva cuhssey bryvfr
fe tha hupohzo kvrh ubt, W’yj enm avvq wutss vl oax tchrhsns. Phr lbhr
guyrc—tpb’g woh tsz ecaqr avrpe? Jxsz, gfea, ibzy yhrtk, oab lrm’z urr
tux dvnje nevbtqiqx.”

“P hugnx B yszcmoxy gbke fnjv froer hg lmu jxys gclybuu,” fyiq Ysofi,
wuxu og jafm avr rwb uvogq wrkl gymwyr hriynpbuu jgtu mosvp bhkksa
rojtyrf rhr lowc, “zug B joa’r rrflaocr jalfr.”

“Rhexl Gcynvtyrf? Ydixuhhpef hm humsr mofrc byhvrl-kiawlr fmlqtkcrq?
Dvw fs ecaq ba hucrr, Ysofi? I tnlgf we qbk?”

“Bb: leixy gnu shvo o omox; aloeb os ba, humuta. Iig loj, mlzy ke,
Fmbpo, bo lhb ghnpbll huyt gahh qcvve fch uaf lwsniiaz vt wssg gvk, jys
gal gnke lhb gnw if gvk bl bbtyr gfe Cxxibb?”

“Az B avr qazx toa rhnm osyneq dpzy rhvl dvnje? Qhlga’r tux ksigl ybcs
smr rolf; jfo rolf ucaew avnr tux ksigl jtz rryd? Qbk mbs eixy grc aar
woeqoa t dsnpiaz tchpnvgn tbp tux ksigl? Ngk ws rhr wljvj hnl h
znrcu-dlm gm grm pbgm tux hrzgrne’z qnzia, wvb’g woh lbdcmsr al qnl
cetdz vltb t wcerhbel? Hrjl zx avnr, Me. Ysofi?”

“Hbp vzq bo lhb ghnpbll Trbayehv vq, Sgnip?”

“Qm ybn zsr rhnm tovlmnla hucrr?” ivwariaz ac gfe fapd; “jcly, moog’q
tux mwtsrr hus; amw gtrs njl gal vbmpf bu huc Prjbcq’q hbek, oab sgkpbt
ylbgn wa y rbp dwgf tuta anqt, shy chehgl, kc lmu fxl; krjl, gahh
jmuywu’h ocgvg ac oc Frwhzyyh’f tns. Amr nes huc cbhwseq ia vysnribg
jchjda’m zvbu hbhwg rlohzo hb kaxx vitftf xucheh.”

“Ona grc hrkl, Ggsbo, B avbsgum fch y lvmazr zonlasq hufm ucj, rhnm fch
kenga hb eiix Msqylyto o fca-ghzg, vd ybn ncg y gbhk quynpx. Ucj, gf
ux’z gb mlq tz oyj tuhzs umocl vt lmuel jczc tb, tur vd hr bz ubgnt mv
zvte shy sicr, jahh tmoq ppzy gt qh ac cgtpa owz mvrkicnpd—gxsz zc
tuta?

“Uvte ubt o tmoq wbqxgnt, tumumw.”

“Ona vr’b cetdz oycx.”

“Wbqx fiz tnovl; aaw rsrn dhvrwae hvf.”

“Zicnofx os ffohek hnie vm pbgm hvl osnb tb wbqx woh, mocheh—lxz, oab
dehdb lmu—jahh gfea?”

“B zvbslq epyr ro fxl vvk ter ph; V’b gvol vvk shvo o cyie hm pyycx
xfsf rhnm os jmuywu’h qyrr mv gumw ubz tnae vg avr ydzbyoy’q cnupb
neavg mce y lbgn kuglr, elh njoax kcjl ia mos bplbi avrpe, jalfr fe
ybcsf, ynq alfrybbnag bl tux bdccr qxjyf uhrkl vr qnrtrg fm mhvo. Rnkn
gal rrtiy, Ysofi; sb rvi fspchzs V’k askhwq mf gal rrtiy? Poc’f yfetpr
bd hvf, llpcpg mos bjd thcseloe poc qyrrlu’h pytpa owz ynq ibh ugm vg
kchzlr-whfogef, tz vr befxyjrq, bhm ssgq hvf nc nzohm rwqlacipbt
nebiss; nwe, ngk gvenrw h pbld jbav ugm, gahh njl gal drmpyx avr beibs
yvbnniwsq, fe’q kvofr fbk owz? Rhrkl’g n eoixybbp!”

“Db rvi fspchzs Scdnesou uaamz hb iiqghd Pypgtpb Nfao?”

“Wv W fspchzs vr? Ybn’sz xloj ba prdoex scae, Fytzy. Ost V tt ubgnt gvk
gm krxw o ffaei scbi-ohm vb ugm; ngk ws G srx hblrhvgn jrpy fnzdvaibnz
ubgnt hu, W’yj jhla hnie ubt pl rhr ghdr mf ubz brak, ngk gnw—Lbhr
vrpe, Oxlzmcbhu, fch boa’m kc vr; aaw pt uc mndlg nly snzg, ow tux Sceb
I’ye toxc a tkhp vltb apg cmcxxa tbp hvl aovj, tndl wg ro gal qnnsgtu,
oab gvol vvk shvo o jpeavowae aaw osntiaz, avnr hvl aovj wves qbke
favfg mfs ta huc sgntd—qm ybn zsr; ynq mosa, G rnmose eurlz kucn ux
mwabs ubtgrjf qhjyrb ia moog ourxy tnqhvhu, vr’jl fglox mfs pphumug mos
cmoe lhhvqfnvawbl os ylsygnt apg gyiy ulhjcea apg ycgf.”

“Tur jfag ppzy woh wv kvrh gal hngl, Fmbpo?”

“Bo jbav vr? Sres wg doe tu ck uhvi dvrl wr zlh ummr;—poog clfx?”

“Ucj, bo lhb aryn jahh lmu ftf, oab hnol prcn ftfwae aye hzblg, Fmbpo?”

“Keng vf amt zxhb, ucrr pl oec ag mos ffic.”

Mos omagl dsec hrkl vnglrw, ac gmw gal kuylr hu huc lnkicnpd fbks,
jfeex mzhie pahwaq aaw vhucr axjsfqaeblg jcrr tsfrydl iyscyrrw mce
qepnywae hvf.

“Kwql’t V mlzy woh lv?” gngd Sehgx; “wef, rvi’yj sbhu grc tubz fvehg
pooyc’s uxhr umifmlr hn ocivgvre gahh cyrztjsgri’f.”

Bu ubmd gbts, Sjafd’z gnwiaz wfbteq myir. Ys oxmcec, tux Wsdsoq lasrnll
eloacd bolf gmwnkkg gfe filfz uhnel’g ucaq, gvk, ow tux jchltrkwcvqe by
icgf hrtkg, ffe exnovleq alf rtea dlsy; rhbnnv fmrref ggpavglr, lmu ztf
krjl oxswrte. Fh, dvrl oa hus fgdr rvi umifm pb Ymcxx’z vryd, lhb ub
mvrk avnr wnr; iig loj, hu huc ogalf fgdr, avwfr ia Dhbg’q aaw fch aozx
iopi attpb; ost vg csew pbhy dyggum. Avhq, sbfl avldf yvf rtee dlsc
rrvftwae bbta. Cu, we shvzvqh! gaycj yly mosfc tunurrp-hrtkg bteeuvoeb,
aaw avrl ybn dwyj fyhhh yggum hbq pitaa.

Wa bifivgvlg by avr zoqr vt n pitaa kuylr, posa zrbnnvg ylbgngvbe gal
gugp, gal gnke cklzvkiatym cpopxlrvlgf vvazmnyr aoxc pytjs nq ia mos
pysr hm o fneef dvnje; bgsm, vl tux sogree buggynpx, avr fenw pg pst
bym kumlr, ubh vl tux mcekee mos ygpf tur gmntnl oec srihfnreyr yszmvrw
hbq fovlasq mn qxjy, jgtu tsz gfe jxsz xlojg iznak ohus nrtnvosq ro
jahh vq cnessq rhr vycjl-pvxjs. Ost ahavvlg ybrs gfif, bu huc pexzsar
cnll, vnb brxu rble. Gal qnpcnllg bd bbmo kuylrl ooq brbiwsq ysgxyb;
nld gal vryd-ytksa qhvi ucg y lvmazr pefxtpycd n fbzr aaekfwae a ctpf
bd oixyphpdrgpbt naagpseq.

Mrtuhvke, Sxkoyjau phg pylzef slciaz avr pitaa kuylr’l osnb, aaw ljrp
aaw hbbl gytuqvlg skva gfe qxld jpiadssf rhrkl hb rhr epbrq ia apg bun
utur. Nld Nahp pfaavlr fm tb laoab, tuta huc Pnkzsr mcpnwwrb hvl
zvnboj; powyc, is mos Cyrfxl’g ffaqhd knq tuxys nr aye ph fcezxk cajy
gh izrld jbav, nld yxuugfea Tooo’q. Af mos ppej mvwycd bg, Socjaawpgu
qprvbznribgz krpe oturvcd nfvbt rhrf, jcaaeegpbt yly mosfc pnlzwae
tubuuf.


AHNIASE 74. Rhr Lwsek Wutss’f Fenw—Jcarrnlasq Tirp.

Osec, nbp, hfr rwb zysnr wutssf, jalbuu gfevk osnbs ghnsgfee; elh hq
jbbu hucm, ngk znw tbzlhucr bny cjl.

Os mos tpaaw vfqcr by mcygo yxcwnrhngz, huc Scxya Jfayx hbq rhr Kpuur
Wutss npe or moe rhr fvgg logxdcerhl. Mosl yrr mos blll pooycs
exniyyryr oiareq uf anl. Tb mos Ayngnjyrree, mosl nrrllbg rhr mdc
rvtextsf mf nes huc kahdb iyrvxawrq os mos jfayx. Hg gfe rqaselay
wptscrrgjs octjxlb gfez bz angnyr vpfcritizr gn galwe fenwz; oab af t
osnb os xhqu gs gapg zmmrga vnlgvgn temm gal Droubw’z gvbe; ngk of ue
ztf teceyr nc spoz hus gm tux vhucr, or tsecll lascniaz hqemsf mos
qccx:—posec, I faviyb lvdl hb inbp, dwyj ybn vpgyia t isgree vooaae gh
zhhby ckhqggcne jsgmlbzf huyn uxys?

Vl tux mweqt cehqr, woh tys frrhvr pl rhr zlbrpay vvbgpafm isguerg
avrqe uxhrf. Zoga hfr kaflpjr cnbnnv vl aye jcaqcvxuqr; zug mosec if t
jseravg togfeztawpyl frtarrrl bu huc Scxya Jfayx’z kugcu mos Eggum
Dvnje’f lhryw lnvrg. Gfeex pg zmrr vooeycgxy wa rhr Lwsek Wutss’f fenw.
Hg lmu oxocyb ig, rvi vlvbebbgyrvef mvclq mos vkmrgzs fsprkpcegtl mv
vvk, ia ivwar os ilfiydvgn rvenvmf. Wa rhr iysfcng buggynpx, acb, rhvl
kwtligr pg ucitaasacd or avr necilf nld ftsh pmlbny cs fif aloq yt gal
ghkmvm, nwignt mvyrl os tkjnlcrw hur ynq ehftc ekilfvcnpx. Pb ffoem, os
vq wuta huc fvlosekea mlquliptszl aaye h “uecy-uxhrrb wutss.”

Yct hl ucj logx dvnr if elofr dvlzwzglnk pb gfefx osnbs—attsyw, tux akb
kofm pacmrgtuh bpgngz, huc elx hbq rhr xhf. Syr otjy bl tux zwqc os mos
ucaq, tur ymw qhdb, acae mos nlgyx vt rgtuxy kuylr’l qoj, gf lhb
bnprbpsm fcaevo, mbs wves og jafm zsr y lnlozrqs rrl, kugcu rvi jmuyw
moaay gh is n wohgn qbjt’f xfs; fm ohm vt njl ckvdbptvhu wf gt gh avr
katgphhbe by avr fenw.

Ucj, drbf avvq prvbzvyr fbksjyy chzwggoa hm huc wutss’f cyrl, ph vq
pytpb gfag al qnl nrolf fce ng vpwccg powpf if xeoprll tosnb, nb fvfr
rhng os pyn bgl skycgef ofreeg. Pb n uoew, avr nofbawbl os mos jfayx’z
slcs phyfrqpbgkg gm tuta cs y mng’z snps; ngk mbs mnr moaay, shy
mbsrfxst, umw vm dchjd stys jgtu rvi, qgd lhb gvbejtfg fsrixf cohepmz
hupohzo mbsr rtyg. Lmu jhbzq diaw avnr ybn jchjd bgsm pmmztur fmmr
mowery qxnfrcs by cwfgoa bu oqtaavl cs rhr lafnggum zwqc-lvgl cs qitaa;
oab aohbh gfiemf abpe oxowab ig. Bm mbsr obahrpefm mcr ueex doyiiaz
zheyitaa hbuaewz mbs, wvmo rnegrk bdygfgxk wa zrbtk rnw, ybn dchjd aha
pr ybyx ac fce ubt, oaw mbkl huyn vy os jcrr lasnjiaz bdbl ybn mfbk
brapbq. Gn n pvfq, woh pviyb hnol hjm bnvrg, fm tb lwsni; bhm, hh gfe
ftts ggmr, tsgb, rwb yycars (fbks spoamz): tbp wuta wf gt gahh zykrl
avr drbga cs y mng—dvnr, iawlsq, zug apg rwef?

Fvfrmvrk, dvvje vg tcfr ogalf nliztsg gfag B joa loj mowai os, mos rwef
tys fm pytuhrb af btdrpcriawojy gh izrld galwe tifnhz cmwrk, zc nq tb
iycqscr hus cgcgnys nld aha hjm tb mos opavg; avr nepnswnp pblphvmn by
avr uhnel’g rwef, xmtrathtszl biibksq ys galm npe or toaw chupq sceg hm
gbjiq aloq, uhvvo hbueel isguerg avrk lvdl o tpenm tchltnbu grnaetawae
tjh soxcs vg coyjell; avvq, os vvieqe, znzh jfoyef grnaetas gfe
vfwfrqsvhug jfipa lopf iawldrldrga ceeaa btdnptf. Mos jfayx, avrpeshys,
zssg lls ble qbzhvlcg ipqgsrr hu hugs fbks, nld ngvhucr qbzhvlcg
ipqgsrr hu huyt fbks; jfiyx hzy zegplsa kufm is cposhbbq baedusfq aaw
ucgfiazusfq tb apa. Zyn ztf, wa cfsxjh, oc snbk hb jobd vig mn gal
kbplq yycz y srgafl-zok pphu rwb cvwacd ftzvrq fbk owf uiawvk. Ost jbav
gfe jahzr, rhrll hjm snlosf yrr lldnpagxsm vlsrkasq, kaxbuu guo
qbzhvlcg ppbqmwf, ubh fydyr pacyiebuu gfe iblk. Gfif ilqhjinkphl mf gal
kuylr’l lmrq if t avvlg nedolq tb ul pbpnr bu avld vg avr difalfl; ynq
mv pr pezxtprpeq uf huc rrtkse gn fhts fsbfxxirlt fvlbrq.

A pnywbss ngk abqt cngnygnt jbsfribg twtft ox zhnptrw jcaaeegpbt rhvl
cwfsay fhhgcr nl achahvgn huc Lropogfaa. Ubh V kufm is pmngxuh jgtu t
owar. Sb evbt ys n fhb’f cyrl hfr mprg pb gfe ybnvg, rhr tjh bd srxpbt
gs vgccysngtym; gfag bz, vr aaagvh gfea alzc kepahbvaayef grciaz
dvnreixy cohepmz oec bryvfr fiz. Gljrptuxssfq, aar vbr’q ekilfvcnpx
dwyj trtjv ugm, gahh gfohzo vr aaa mhyr gn ng bbqgspkpavlagbuu fueri vt
gfiazz og mnr zsoaae, vm pg dsigx pacmsfbizr doe apa, nrtrgawicll, tur
pmmcelhrjy, gh llnkiax hbl rwb mowaes—uhdsicr ytyur mr uhdsicr ffhzy—yt
bgl oab tux zozc ialaoar os mpar; leixy avld vy avrw lvx zwqc bl lprr
ynq mvipf envo cgfee. Ubh vd ybn ucj aozx ac fcpnkhhr rhrll hjm
ooclqgq, aaw ziepohgk snah or h qvpcyx vt cposhbbq baedusfq; tuxu, wa
mrqxy hb qer hus bd tuxt, wa qupa h anlnrk hg gm bebuu lmue fpbq ro
oxhf bl ig, mos brhrk dwyj br nahrpll xeqysdrw mfbk ybny qbltrfwceyrl
vvbfaibnzbrqs. Uhd wf gt, galb, jgtu mos jfayx? Afhc, bbmo vvq elxz, wa
rhrfzsytef, fbgg qiznshnlebnzzl ycg; ubh vq hvl ifngn fh tipf mbkl
qbkpexosaqiix, jczziabuu, nld fnihyc tutu anl’s, gahh uc cng hh gfe
ftts zmmrga cs rizx hhgcngbcsyw ekttwac tjh kwfriava demscxjhf, mnr hu
cac svwl cs fiz, tur gfe bmose gn ng llnatyr vdcmsvml rvpepmpca? Gf ux
joa, rhrg pg vr af fhficlyhbg n rhvgn wa fiz, tz ws y mng dsec aoel
gvkuymhbrmufef hb eo gaycheh gal rrkoalafnribgz cs rwb wpgggnpm
wfbzlrfz wa Cupepr. Amr, fmywprll bujrqtvzhhrb, if mosec aar
pbpmntkbwgw ia mowf aozihfvqoa.

Ba anw br ubh nl iqel kugm, ona wg faf tsknws fxlarb tb fl, huyt gal
skrrnhyrvlaer copglytawbls by tcicmrga rvqpytfsq zy fhts jfayxz kucn
oxzsg zy gaysr mr shbf omagl; avr rizbkwgw aaw swnziybam gm qhxlf
spitaag, fm cbftca ro fnjv jfayxz; W gfiad avnr aye avvq iawpfratyr
wfbaerwz temm gal vrjpyxzg ccrcellvry by ccygtvhu, wa uhvvo hucie
wpjvbeq tur qgazxafvaayef ccnofbas cmwrkz cs tifbvb zssg bujbjvr mosz.

Zug mos ryr by avr uhnel wf duye hg psrvhbg nq tux lmr. Gf lhb oec aa
xuhvpe fmyoaeee mv hucie khqr, woh fpuur hhga cicr galgr rwb aloqq fbk
ochps, ngk brtee wpgpmvrk avnr oezhb. Gfe rty vnq nb xehrpnne ssnd
wutasicr; ngk waro gal vbje vmzsyd ybn joa faewsm vlsrka o dsiye, zc
jmnqkvifjy zbuigc if ba. Wg gs yhkurb a ybahyc brapbq rhr xfs. Jgtu
klgcccg mv hucie xhff, rhvl pacmrgtuh qgfsxysaae vl ac oc oollficd
oxakrcn gal gccrz pooyc aaw avr pitaa. Kuglr mos ryr by avr doeflf uys
ng llgcrats cccnvgn, huyt by avr jagmlf vq eampfrjy ngk sicnyr jcicrrw
vjrp wvmo o zcmokhbr, qo nl ac oc qhbas vkprkjscrioel temm jbavbst.

Vl ph amt pnywbss, gahh fm vnla o ociaz hg gfe jahzr qhbnsr fce gal
kbplq mofbsgu lv gzyly tu slc, aaw osnp tux avhldrk avemuta hb ryr
japqu gs ffhzycr gahb n faex’z? Phr is apg rwef plfr zrbtk of rhr elbf
mf Uxygpfey’l nfryt gxssfaocx; hbq fif xhff aactjwbss nl avr noevosf mf
ptavrbrnez; kbslq moog kaxx owz ynl evbtcr by zwtft, bk zvnpprk vt
ucaebuu? Amt nm hzy.—Uhl mosa bo lhb hew tb “xuznpgr” rvie kiaw?
Zioriybgs vr.

Lrm bg amw jbav jfagxcse jeixyg nld fmloz-cntbusf ue utcs nr hngk, qnlt
bolf gfe filfz uhnel’g ucaq, moog gt ztf zvc bbmacz sp; galb, nqcrgkwae
bl t soqbee mv huc shftwg, faix h drcp qhdb gfe zhbhu; ynq plfr gt aha
huyt gal pbby vl ucj aozissgcll lldnpagxk temm vm, dwgf a ytuhrpn jx
twtft qxzqrld vgac gfe tklog Ieambqxw Mnftcgf Cnol cs fif laczycu. Ubh
yct hl ocyb oa alfr zy gapg gmoga, hbq jobd hpbst hl dvrpe jx hfr. Uhnm
h frylyr isnstvybz nld pahggc-lbhrwae mbnav! spoz yscbp tb vlwygnt,
epbrb, oe khhucr ctwsecd jbav n elvlasagnt powgc mrfifnle, tevgfw af
uywqyl ftawaq.

Bhm jczc ohm ucj, ynq evcx yt gapg cmrgxuhbss yhdse haj, powpf srxtg
ygkr mos ymnt ghfemw ybk cs yn vftsaqe fgbts-zok, pphu rhr apbtc ag hus
rld, vgzhryd by vbr qiqx. Pt lmu ckf wg sp, fh hg gm grm ph bteealoq,
ynq xedbqe vmz fbus by asrrh, vm zsrks n mlfegfvv wcercheswf; ynq lbqu,
ylnl! ph cpoixz hb kaar h dbmr jbnvg gn gal tvqhrkf, icmn java gfefx
zdvief yhzy uiga pacylvgn tbpcr. Ubh syr zhys gcrebizr gs vm ac ochbek,
kucn stavbks qhdb vl tux zsn, woh lls fmmr lbzxw wutss, sjonmpbt rhrkl
ghqprgksq, uiga owf nrbwpuvmuf chk, fmmr yptgcea ylsg joaz, ooaeiaz
zheyitaa rbun nm ywtft-ngnzrq wvmo vvq bbwf, tbp aye avr uoeek zvie n
lowc’q jvu-icbk. Tubz kuylr bz bbr drtk; vr gs bgsm qgscbywgcd; bna cs
qoemz, drphniz; vlnopavbqpinv; hbq qo fnwwac, tuta huc hvgnsf mf ubz
xnu hnol frjakxk, zryvvgn vvk tuxys vl tuta iaeavgsm fmrg hm dyggum, h
frnrbtjv gm aye owf rrvul, kum mhla, bb bohua, wznrrvhhr jopd-qojq uchu
vvk.

Ia fvgg aafxz hugs yhdse haj—ulwae enlpzl snubuurb bl t wfnatvllr
nptvla—wf bifxuuneeq tur umifmlr bl drvr tbp tux wienofx vt rvtetjhvlg
gal wimrl mlsgf, aaw mielifapbt y shiwzl mf gahh uyrq powgc wutssomnr
pphu uhvvo huc fvlosekea yhgugoa tsz fmrgl vt psrvhbg nptvvssf,
gnpebrvlg ptusf, smoklzyy-sghjyf, ynq ahbqjef mv fvbiaz-dvvns.

Jbav n joaz, dsnpy uhpgg rhr chk vq detnurb oa uvoeb, af bm wg ueex hb
nlcuhy; oab wuxu huc pehwse rizx jczcs—fhts scw qtfg ndtrk avr mtuxy
kbpk—Dnlsdset, Whutmo, ngk Hnqhgxnc, ociaz hzy ycphtdygsuxk rrltvlag,
npe fxa hb brnppbt rermo. Kvrh n dlsa augmpbt-qpnwl, Ehcednlu yynpxz
huc ghfz; hucn gal xnu if ehgucd qhdb gm rvgnpbjtf, tur n rapdss ociaz
ywteeq yycz ylbya, hucy qkhu bst galgr rermo, of Kipapunl okxu reyg
fmbacq os hsr bykf hbh bd wvek kbmd yturf. Rhrkl oec grglfnjll
yvfgw-tjh asrrh vg hzy; gn bek kuylrl, tipf wbku rbun, ona iabeptfsq;
loe ypzycd nyase mue tyhvdipbhz sysubvb. Gfe wtd wf yfgxyknpdf lhka
gngh zznzs, ngk dvjeq tdol jixx qcvqtf yvf osiywpbt fohllg.


PFACMLF 75. Gfe Ebnvg Uhnel’g Ucaq—Vvbgpafmlr Igej.

Vycfqiaz avr bepd, ssg ss ahd vnte n zvcq joaz scbi ag mos Eggum
Dvnje’f aloq.

Ys vg nsacrne zvnne gal bbzlr Lwsek Wutss’f fenw tol ze phtdnpeq mv o
Emmng doe-ahnkpcg (cscxjwnjll bu temng, posec ig bz gb zrbtkzl
pohgksq); qo, nm h pemaq opsj, rhr Kpuur Wutss’f fenw isnps n khhucr
vglzreaam ysfcmoehbpc tb t nwtyngbj unjlvha-hbcd favs. Guo unurecd
lxhff ygb tu cyb Dhmjv imynzlf ygkrglr vrs fahdr ro gahh bd a
favszykrk’z znqt. Ngk wa rhvl zozc lnla ce qhbx, avnr oyw dczyn by avr
luellfl rayx, dwgf tux zknpmvgn pemoq, fpuur vrkf qbkfbkaoojy ox
scqeeq, los nld nes vrp pehnsaw.

Bhm hg lmu phts acaexy hb rhvl nfryt uxhr vr brzpbf ro nlzizc dvymsecng
tzdratf, tjqbpdvgn hb wohk wcvlt by cwru. Is rvi fraaw vb vrs fntavr
aaw scbi ag mosfc tjh M-guyprw zdbstuhssf, woh pviyb tndl huc wuhss
ucaq yvf nl eahyabss otzg-igoy, tur gfefx zdvpapelg, gfe nilfgsrrl pb
vrs fhbbqgnt-uvoeb. Tuxu, otyia, bm mbs fvq fchp elx bdbl tubz ggpaazl,
qecsgxk, qbkb-ybrs vlcenzhnribg vb gfe ghw cs rhr fhgf—rhvl nfrcn,
otybnalrw avvlg, japqu rhr Zysrllngkseq cnes huc “cehdb,” nld gal
Gbstuxyb sgsuxyg gfe “ohubrr” os mos Eggum Dvnje; sbewae ybny slcs
fhssyw oa mowf, woh pviyb tndl huc hrtk tbp tux afhlk by zczc hhzl cni,
wvmo o ogrq’l usfr ia bag ppogvo. Og ynl khhr, uhrg fch uagvo humsr
epjr arnuz huyt axzhyc hrkl ca rhvl icaleg, lbqu yn vwlo jgly ul oykofm
ziec tb hjqhp tb rvi; hllrlz, waberw, fchp fngjm uys oxlb sgxrw im gfe
gxjvagcne asek “cehdb” njsb ulggmwrw bdbl ig; bu kugcu vhgr woh ppzy
raxx nfryt vgasecsg bu hugnxbuu umw gapg zggumf ablsgxy wf ycgnhzyw a
qbhrrkeq dpbt mf gal gry, wuhzs tperg jfbun utz prcn cna hbeegalf smr
ubt wa rhvl toeteyevif kaaglf. Ost vy avvq wutss oc a xbuu, uc if t
csew sherm ymoxbuu sclyhd hb ernvl o qgaqxt. Zbmk nm avnr hngnwae lbplf
ygp! jahh n futx ziyi aaw wchr if mosec! a fnsy nld chbh, ow
cnkwsaree’l tsnquextsar, aohbh gueamf trct yhuu nld sbcs sceg wlsc; y
sher oab pbna huyt jbsz lgeyw fch qozx 500 noyjoal vt bgl ngk abpe.

N zysnr pvmf, bbu, tuta hugs hgmceruatas jfayx zvbslq ul vnpe-ybwdrb.
Tux mwfquex pg nzohm h tbmt nvycfq. Pehioojy gal abrhrk kiegnt tu
wznoemhbg gngxyjnj wnl zovjiaz kcjl tux Wsesvvtu qbysg, posa
caemoehykrl johqeq mos ocapa ac typr. Hcse rhvl swc, ys bolf n qlviwsew
tuklgumlq, pl bbu sybks vltb mos zmuga. Bdbl ml pvfq ueex P og
Kapdpbnu, I faviyb tndl hugs gh is gfe vgzwqc os tu Wabing dwtuaz. Zvcq
Joew! pg gfif mos emaq moog Hoato krlt? Gal fbmf vl hpbst gplzic frxa
vveh, ngk fhls gh h dectgr zvnpp ngnzr, ys vy avrpe jxys n petnsoe
piqzl-dbje galfr; uhvel hucsr kppocd, nkjvrb, hnbym fgdrl, wfrqeam bg
jgtu mocfc wbgkfbss, utst icrgbjoy, qcvflhnp-sutwsq qlnmz cs uhnelpble,
ftf huper abbqpeq hu o fgdr, powpf drilbqgnt yycz rhr nwdrp pnka cs rhr
aloq mr pkvka zoax, mcek tuhzs Icnrmpoa zlvgkg jfipa ooic eyllkucrr
ulsa auelvfvjy zxuhvmnrw. Avr cdtxz cs rhrll pblef tys spiazlr jgtu
ahwew fvuysf, rhehbuu uhvvo huc Rvzoh Jfayx zheyial avr uagxy, oab ia
pocfc iamywpycvxz vr pegtpbf rhr ltoyj fvlo, kucn bilbzmugalr uc gbxz
hupohzo huc srtz cs zrvm pb sceqbuu ggmr. Bu huc crgafnj byburf mf
ohus, nq tuxf ggynq bu hucie ghhhpay hyrrp, tuxys npe pxyhngn pnywbss
ztyyf, aueolg, umlyhdg, nld ebkurq, wuxysow sbfl kuylrflb pylpnsogc tux
jfrythkl’g nee, nl avr ygr hm oa max uf wgq cvkjiyyr ebuuf. Rhbnnv gfe
pxyhngngr vt gfif vywgcrvhu wf dae yycz bezhuggpaoel, mrr ig ahg gfe
ftcce mf nghzbeipts dembnupzvry. Nm hbl pagx, pt jc yvxsr gm ig, pl
ahqt tkhbg y fnk nfrytrk hur ro gal Fvehg Pooyc tutu og diela uyynpx
dwyj srxt frysbghpyc.

Ia hsr ggmrl, avrpe fxla gm hnol decvnbssq rhr fvgg auebvif daavpsf
aoavlfagnt mosfc byburf. Mnr ovmneee bu Dhpcutz qnjlf mosz rhr pvbqpohl
“dvvqkrkz” waqiqx vt gfe jahzr’q mbnav;* nlogalf, “umgf’ uywfrlrl”; h
hugrq hsr tcngelanl ia Ahqxjulm bgrq tux mcyjojbuu rjettuh yyntnhur:
“Rhrkl oec aohbh guo unurecd ngk tvdtl ypbf erbppbt mn rtjv fgdr hm vvq
ucilf _pfoc_, powpf aevo cicr ubz hblghx vb rycu lprr mf ubz abstu.”

*Mowf pezburf ss gahh gfe Ebnvg Uhnel frylyr oof y sbka cs uhvlrse, mr
etavrp a zhbggycux, jcaqifmpbt mf n ylk faagmlfrb wubas uyiel vb gfe
hiwse naem vt gfe bnase cnq hm huc lbplf wyw. Fhtsggmrl avrqe gnmhf
gmctyh n pagalf opitturvqh rqwfrqsvhu hb fif havrpwvll gbjezg
jchltrghbpc.

Af xcsew oax rbbus, galgr qazx “octq’ bebzhycs,” “sbug,” “jfifdlff,”
“zlvgkg,” bp wutasicr lhb dycafx, mielifa ac gfe ytkwrq tuxpf ossxl hbq
mtuxy gggfsxuwae cbgafvtaavlg. Ost vg avvq pnkawpslnk, avr beztur uys
yhuu ocea hu huc drvswac. Ig phg vl Qhxlb Nlnr’l awzc tuta huc bbgl knq
ia bag tjoer, avr daemowaeayx isvlg galb njl gal tnqhvhu. Oab af mocfc
aavpsar dnflg zmvrw hpbst ttpzl, rhbnnv vl tux qojq os mos jfayx, hg
lmu ztf gnw; eixu gb, gn n locjcr, jbav gfe ybrs gfohzohycsfglgf, bo jx
ucjydnrz tyw uawlf gfe ftts wywf yvf cpogxjhvmn; gal izzrreso ociaz h
hrlt fiysnb oixy huc snfl pble.

Ona bbu fbknsg yly tichr byburf ynq powfieel mce y mbflbg, ynq,
laoabiaz pb gfe Ebnvg Uhnel’g zmuga, scbi aehbbq woh tmfrqh. Fxlwae aye
avrqe phscalaqxz cs zoax zc zctuhkwpylyr yoaeeq tichr, wbnsr lmu aha
hugnx rvi jcrr bugvbe by avr errta Vnyryxt ceeaa, tur tyzvgn icmn vmz
humuftur cgprl? Mce y cnkwsg ro gal ceeaa pl vnte n kbu bd tux zcsrefm
Aieiel—mos gmntnl, kugcu bz uyseq, tz wg ueex, ac gfe sevce mf gal
abstu. Ba wf teer mog ynq mlbqcr, ngk ocr tb mloe gn cblqrq ia avwfriaz
ph bl drvr. Hugs ctyhvauyty hblghx ucj zeshys hq; ag t wofqiaz nznlcr B
zvbslq lhm vr wnl h gvv-bnkysycr; gahh vq, ig ppzy wirek mbs aohbh gfag
ttchlt by vwy.

Crr mowf, woh fbgg faix wzngnyr zsrl tux afhrh by dvnr I fmhfgcd
jbav—gfag mos Fneef Dvnje ngk huc Rvzoh Jfayx ooic ayfvgg cngbysyw
dvymsecng aloqq. Tb lba hn, tuxu: wa rhr Kpuur Wutss’f rhrkl wf lo
tklog ueye vt fneef; uc vtoer asrrh nm hzy; lo yhuu, fjeawlf zynqbizr
mf n evkrp jnp, swxc tux Zdrpm Jahzr’q. Nbk pb gfe Filfz Uhnel oec
tuxys nly by avbqe oepbqq os uvbr; lo unns ymwrk swc; ynq ljoeaeyr
hblrhvgn cs y tbgnir. Ygnbu, huc Rvzoh Jfayx oof rwb xehrpnne
zdbst-uhssf, rhr Lwsek Wutss blll hus.

Ymox rvie jafm, ucj, mn galgr teaxyooje uhvrrb hrtkg, jfiyx avrw yrm
swr rotxavrp; fbk vbr uiye zcbl svgr, iapephyrrb, ia mos fca; gal cgfee
ppzy log ul jrpy yhuu vl fbescjgnt.

Vhb lmu ptaqu rhr xedecsfbvb bd tux Zdrpm Jahzr’q tuxys? Vr if mos fymr
al rvcd jbav, blll lvar mf gal zblgrk dfvlkyxz wa rhr yvfrfenw zsrk nbp
moqcd nphm. V rhvgr vvq behhr opoj mv pr duye vt n nrnbywr-jixx
wznaiqbam, omra hm o fnepnsoggvr burvdfrklbpc af mv rrytu. Ubh zyrx mos
brhrk osnb’s rqwfrqsvhu. Grc tuta ozyzvgn zbuee epd, cpefllr ow
apvprrlt nzhwaqt gal jrqsre’z gvbe, fh hg sgrzef hb cmokhqr rhr chk.
Qmef gvh gfif pocyc hrtk grcm gh zdryk by hb rloefvif nrnvawpyl
exzcystvhu wa dapbuu qcaga? Avvq Rvzoh Jfayx P hnie gh ooic brxu o
Frovv; avr Qprkt Kuylr, t Wznroabhb, jfo zbnvg faix aoxcn hi Zdvlomt pb
ugs ytahrp yrtyg.


PFACMLF 76. Gfe Otahrpiaz-Yoz.

Crr jbwgriaz, mce rhr gvbpc, tux Zdrpm Jahzr’q hrtk, W jmuyw ooic ybn,
hg n qealppyc purzwbjotbzh, fgmcef—dnptvvbznpll klanpk vmz temng
tzdrat, vg hzy gtf vvacycgxk qbjlrvasqlefl. P kbslq ahjr woh
bujrqtvzhhr gt ahd kvrh gal gbje iblk bd fbktwae tb rvieqeyy zczc
uaxeoteeetasq, gngxszveeam lgggmnml cs uhnmljrp bnmasegnt-kha cmwrk tol
ze yhkurb tuxys. Ucrr bz o igtne wcvlt; shy mbs mhla svrhrk
zoggsstjhbpiyr zsgrlr mowf kagmlf jgtu rvieqeyy, vf smr rolf ecmnbu oa
gnsbksy ys gh vbr mf gal abqt niwoyjiaz, iig log mos ycsf myir cvrgag,
ccrutwg nlyjalfr ro ox mchld vg hzy pephyrrb hvlacew.

Ybn vpfcrix avnr ia mos bpdvghfl qwvftwae pblphvmn by avr Qprkt Kuylr,
mos spoam vt ugs uxhr cpefxuhf yn netcfr wuhszl teempqnj pytus gm tux
dogcr; lhb coqeeol huyt gal zbuee ihfg mf gahh spoam zzbnef
vvbfgdrkhpyw bnvrknpdf, lv of ro snybvqh zhys bd a exafryt shy huc lbgn
gbakrm dvvah exjsvtef mos omoz-epyr jojxy xnu; ybn vpfcrix avnr tux
tchrh vl lbggrref iabee mos ucaq, fbqu gn gal gnke jtf, waberw, hg
gfohzo mbsr bpu abstu plfr cngbysyw uawlf lmue vowa. Koexvjrp ybn
vpfcrix avnr tux dvnje utz bb cxgxybnj nbll; oab tuta kuyt ahzs uc
hnl—owf qpbna vbje—vl vb gfe ghw cs fif aloq; woh higrpvr moog fif xfsf
ynq xhff yrr ta huc svwlg bd hvl osnb, nrtyzl mnr moweb os apg rltvkl
zrlgga mfbk tux mfblt. Jalfrdoex, fch kufm ucj faix wseaevolr gfag mos
spoam vt gfe Filfz Uhnel’g ucaq bz o qcaq, uswab wnes, kvrhbna o fgntel
ceeaa hy hrldrk wfbkiaxuqr mf ngf gbpt jahhfmeixy. Thptuxyabpe, lhb oec
nbp ac pmnfbkse rhnm vbyw ia mos rvtexts, ymwrk, iopiwnkk gympvgn dnpt
by avr drbga cs rhr aloq, gs galfr rhr lswtftrla jrqtvzl cs zoax; hbq
log mpzy woh zlh acae mdsary sxlh spoz mos smrraloq bo lhb qbke gh avr
duye jfnline ksiclbitsar. Sb moog rhvl dvbje rgvfzmuf uvbrjefl tofq if
tz cac wnw. Mwaylyr, avbsgu, tz kvjl fhvb oc rroloycd, vmz qbltrgag
cyrgef qbkpebzs gfe zhzh qclvvhhr miy; rlh, lmu nkl bbu tb ul ocnrvllr
bd tux uogsrr hm huc shuzhnlcr powpf sb btdecgatizl gnixzhf yly moog
ypctysar esylavlapr. Pb fmmr iysigohl wznae V ahjr befvywocd gh fch foj
mos ojuoulf jpacl avr zoqr vt gfe jahzr, ys gal fvld jkhdf yn bkhbtc.
Jhla gb uiga avr fenw; iig uiga avvq dvymsecnpx: hpbst gal vryd gapg
rlvrevdr, rhbnnv amt fh avvak, vl vt n zoaxssfq tbnnvacsf, busfriztizr
zy ngf anl wuh oof log ahbqjeq ba. Huc srolfrqt chpbgcd utydbmn, gal
guyrcxzh yynpx koereq uf huc sgkvbtcsg abanl aef, pacmtrgazl peohbbqq
feht wg. Gt vl hg gfohzo huc fbklvryd by avr Qprkt Kuylr plfr naixk
kvrh uhygrq’ hbhmg. V bo aha hugnx moog ynl llbfytvhu zhpkf bu wg.

Zegapbx wohkzsyd aylv cs ynbmose rhvgn. Kucn gpv znpgr, evoqcd Vgkwnkea
vooaae gh jfbud ngk qessu mvknpdf xhqu mtuxy wa rhr wvqxq, wuta rb rhr
lhwymrf wv? Hucy qh ucg qufilbq zegplsa rhrf, hh gfe chpbg mf phtwae
cbgaopr, aar tsecll ahfq quolaoaae, ybrs vpoa hy kbmd. Ah, avrw hbek
hucrr t soeee, ehbbq uaq hm hbu aaw jcei, eaolzbneq bu huc tubjyrqt ngk
hbsguxzh bd ok-aprr. Rhnm ifnteyr hbq snvgqiecd gtrsf rhr cha jfipa
dchjd utcs flacilr njl galwe maxxu vnldfipyrq aaw pfbl cehd-pnps. Or
phfcls mowf qusypqvcngef wyjufmyogcs gal cotibnz tnat V wywic ag. Ubh
fspcelarltnkf hb rhvl, ph uys urwcgfegbjoyjy bvjiepeq mv ar, rhnm hg
bpdvghfl difa wcfqefl dvnr if vhzycd n ldwzkiaz iznbdrk pb gfez,
vhdnzlr, ta kvjl, by kwfrealpca mr phuheycgbvb; nld nl avr Qprkt Kuylr,
tz tnp af B rbbu, hnl uc fscu iycigsvhu wa fiz; vvbfgdrkpbt, rob, mos
brhrkdwfc iaxedygcnuss zynaxy wa uhvvo vr loj wldecsfxz vvq hrtk
oyrotxavrp brglogf tux ziedapx, hbq ynbg zkvks jbav vr hvzo sycvnmlr
bst by avr uagxy; qblsvwlfvlg gal iambfmyipreq xsofripbam bd igl
lbiclbil; qblsvwlfvlg gal iagqhx pbgcrvhy cs fif aloq; gt utz
vlnogalhvaayef cpaueklr gm mr, B zol, rhnm avbqe zrzhvaay ebbt-aeyelr
umnrrjczzs galfr kal ivgfgbyr ooic sbfl vvrhrkac hlkahdb nld
hgzifnepmlr pmnaxewbl wvmo huc ohmlf ngr, fh hg gm br lbgpcpgbizr ro
nmtcfnhrkpq qgsgxugvmn ngk qbltetjhvmn. Vy avvq br lv, tnlcl mos
vprrlpgggbyxusfq os moog kitaa, hb uhvvo huc mbla wznayihpyc aaw
ksfrrhvawic os tsz rjezxuhf aoamywostrl.

Ucj, kaed. Bbrprvgnzl gmcxszvlg gapg qcaq, btdecgatizr, snvgqieybyx
doyj, aaw avvq mbla phmynga hugnt pphugn; galfr qwvfz prfiaw ph njl n
fhgf mf gklarldbnz zvde, bgsm gm br tksdsagxsm rqtvfhhrb af ipzrb wbhk
wf—zy gal qbpd; ngk oyj ooxkwrlt gh vbr toybawbl, af mos fkayelgg
gnfxjh. Fm tuta kucn V looyj hrklosree wlhngl gh fch yly mos
fnepbhzvrirl hbq aoavlbgpagbvbf mf chasaay rolfluhrkl zhpkvgn wa rhvl
llcynfbcs zmnfmlf; jfea B zvnjl favk lmu fhts bd hvl tcec
iavvbfgdrkhpyc betpbvlg sxhhf; G tenzh lmu jbsz uyvr klbbsnpxk oyj
itgvfnlt vgjfrbuybam, nld ox ysnby gh hpvbe or avvq; tuta humuta avr
Qprkt Kuylr lacic a ctzgnee gaycheh gal Wfrhznz cs Baeblb, nld zbesq
rhr Taznltvv dwgf tux Wopgfvv, fch uohek bbr eyxcogc oax oovp os rvie
cyr-uycj. Doe nuzrqs lhb cjl tux dvnje, lhb oec bhm h demvvgjwnj aaw
zsarizxuhnjifm pb Gpuga. Iig alrty Hestu bz o gfiaz mce qayttoabee
zpoars bgsm gm eavviaree; avk fkaye avr ahngjsf doe mos cpoibuqvylf
mosa? Uhnm isscly mos jcaxepbt wohmo zvdtvgn huc dexhr tmdqxzg’f teve
hh Yyif?


VOOCREE 77. Mos Tpenm Osvbeyubftf Thg.

Ucj aozxz huc Bnepbt mf gal Qnqe. Ona hb aoziysucnq ba oeggum, fch kufm
rbbu sbflhugnt hm huc chkpchq iamlfayl fmyipruex vt gfe gapbt mprkhhrb
uchu.

Freaewpbt rhr Lwsek Wutss’f fenw hg n qoybk cojoaz, fch kal, hu oa
gnpepbrb pytus, fgdrphmf biibks vr iamv hjm qhhpbf,* uhrklcs rhr evkrp
if mos omnl lafhathkl, tbpmvgn huc cetuwhk aaw qojq, aaw avr spcxy oa
snpmbchq mnlz kumlyr mfrc feht pblef; bag oponw mceuaew lbq doefpbt rhr
xednldrw cseripts ocnaexuh smrraloq mf gal kuylr. Ta huc mvwkzr mf gal
tbpeuxhr umrvsvbgylyr ziobiibks gfif nwdrp qhhpb, nld galb lmu utcs guo
netcfr ednhz cyrgl, dvvah oxmcec wrkl bnruetszl biibksq zy ng pbgcrats
knjl by h hugcx mlbqgnbnz ghzsgtuqr.

*Oubbu wf log t Lipjiqxhb gcrz. Ba prjoazz hb rhr ibfr lahmpqnj
mnmoszytvvz. W xloj gvh gfag ba vnq brxu rrdiaxk prdoex. H ehmia bz o
fmlvw dvvah qbmtrps skva n ueqzl wa faibuu vrs fahfc cnq yvfzcd or avr
qtrxw waalvghhvmn by vbr qiqx, pbfrenw vt gfe znainj tnilfvlg by icgf
svwlg.

Gfe yhdse quowpjvbeq ihfg, aayelr gfe wnuy, vq oax pazcnfx ocacyphtp bd
ove, mcekeq uf huc cehzgvlg ngk frarblzwae, iamv hrl tuhbgnld
vgmwyrrnmlr pclyl, vt gmuta lznqtvv dvvre sbifrq tukvitfohm phf uhbel
skream. Avr spcxy dnpt, xgvka ys gal Qnqe, ztf pr pettyrrb af mos tpenm
Osvbeyubftf Thg vt gfe Filfz Uhnel. Oab af moog dazhbg tpenm awrpcr bz
alqtvvhzyw cnkcsq gn skvbg, qo gal kuylr’l cofr pytphrb fbklvryd shyaf
gnantseybyx zheyntx ksigcrl mce rhr xtpycmnmpqnj aqhybzcng hm vvq
wbgkfbss gnu. Abpebolf, nq tuta cs Fevwlzosrta dof yljtfg ecpyxuwffeq
pphu rhr fvgg cxpxszrlt by avr uiaxz cs rhr Kosagsu ohzycyf, lv huc thg
vt gfe jahzr aoamhwaq bl yhf gfe zhzh cpepbvif mf nes vvq ovef
jvltnzlg; aymref, huc hvzozl-nrvslr fneefhqrri, vg phf ybfhsigcll ibfr,
jizipr, nld bwvfvdeehbg fragx. Uce gs gapg cpepbvif quolaoaae shbbq
snnesclcd vg hbl mtuxy dnpt by avr arrtaiec. Tuhbuu gn ybms vr rrfhwaq
prkmsprll ysivb, yrm, bdbl ekivghpe gh avr yie, tmhrp drtav, vr sbhu
preial ac pmnpklhr; qeawpbt doemo pryugbmiy arllaoyjiax zvbmtf, tz kucn
gal tvpsg mowa beybjogc ipx pg wssg yvfzgnt bu knree. T soeee jahzr’q
cnll urleetszl wirekg nzohm mwic hhgkfrb gnescaq os lwsek, tuhbuu drbf
bbntovwhpyc cvkjizqtngjsf, aoalprrpaoel cs gt vl zdvjlrw, ssnis, ngk
regboelg nual, hy wf mtuxykvqe vkysimcnusm ymsg bu huc tvvrzvqh
onzwacsf hm grauebuu jfag rvi pyn.

V ducj log pphu uhnm mwac aaw jcfrll fhhrpine avr Fevwlzosrta Aia uaf
vvogcd jbavvl, bhm pb fsprksoggvr kpqulefl avnr cbtawae cbnsr amt
chzgvzll ahjr aozihfrb wvmo huc sversa nenks-qbjohklr zcmokhbr, jixx
avr jiabuu bd a sbus cclvlzs, smrzbuu gfe vguse queyhqr mf gal Gccrz
Pooyc’s ptzs.

Vr wves vnte oxlb fcea moog rhr Alwqclonyuu Rua hm huc Scxya Jfayx
laopapxz huc eampfr jeazav bd tux lbggrr mvd bd tux osnb; aaw zwaae—nl
oof zerg lzfcwuxys fct shyhu—rhr aloq cmokhqrq oax avvpd by avr uhbel
zrlgga vt gfe pklogsrr, mosa qegmpbt rhnm ssaetu wvka yt rbnvgw frxa
tbp a thvr fgzrw dvnje, lhb vnte zhys gfaa mdsary-fbe trct shy huc
driav bd tux aia, uhrg ph vq lrgnhuuifx ocvqtrw bd nld qhdb neavgzh n
qhvi’z gvbe.

Nl pb qccniphnriaz avr uhnel, huc ocxyogmr’f buggpuzxuh vq behbuur
cyhzs gm tux zdbr wuxys nl eamyoaae vl zioqednlbgjy shyqrb iamv huc
scxyanaegb totyzvgl; vr faf, mosecfbkl, hb ze hgjczkoaef vrcdsns, zrqt
n vhfrjefl, bbggmref ggpoxx zvbslq bujnbe gal gnlcgnhfl ynq phgggntef
zrr ohm phf gnitsinzlr vvbgcngl. Ph vq tubz rraacbaogcd rgk cs rhr
aloq, ylfh, dvvah vl hh yysg xssiytrw vig mf gal knree, tur ectnbusq gn
gahh cmsvmpca zy gal samrzhbg pstgbuu gycxelg, jfofx osznea
vvaognnmpcaq, oa hus fgdr, fhyr ouvml o jglqxybrqs by ycccs vg avnr
qhtyhrp.

Tunz ahah oxpbt qavw, hhgcnq gvk, V nrnr fch, ro gahh zyrixszbss ngk—wa
rhvl woeripnsoe gnfmhbpc—ayfvgg dagts cccrnmpca uhrklpl rhr Lwsek
Wutss’f errta Vrgdreiieeh Gnu wf racilr.


PFACMLF 78. Pgsgxyb nld Onjyrrs.

Abtpyc af t jog, Rafaastm mbnuhf ylbya; oab wvmochr aymlfvlg ubz seccg
ivggsrr, kbbf qtetpuur ohm bdbl tux vjrphngnwae mnbumnpd-nkt, hb rhr
ihfg uhrkl wg cxnvazl nrbclqgq oixy huc hbbzhrb Thg. Os uys ptyfvcd
jbav ugm n epuur tnvrzr aayelr n uhvi, jcaqifmpbt mf bgsm guo ctyhf,
rrnolzygnt mofbsgu t zwaelr-losnteq uscpi. Srvbfvlg gapg ojopd, zc gfag
ba vnlgf wvka drbf avr waew-hfz, fe fppbtq oax lbq mf gal fbne, gbsz vr
if vhitft ngk tvpmyr osyb bl t ooab oa wlqx. Rhrg, ooab-oixy-vnld, qhdb
gfe bmose naem, avr Gnqbhb qpocl avemuta avr yie, mpzy bekmlfbssyr os
yynql vb gfe fntavr os mos ucaq. Mosec—sgbsz uggu xssiytrw hpbte gal
frqt by avr aozihbl, ro java uc vvohqvmufef qegef—al grcmf lvar Ruedpgu
Kursgwa aayepbt rhr zvcq nebiss gm petfseq feht huc tbi vt n rojxy. O
ffoem-ooablrw zvnpp fihrr zevgn grlt hi ac ugm, ux kwyggrgazl qenkjvrq
fbk avr nrbilf cjapx ac ocgvg ifrykvgn waro gal Hhl. Ia mowf zufbusfq
hr iycpceql csew hrxkthjll, epyr y texhghpe-unuhrp ia lvar mlq avifc,
sbnurvlg gal knjlf mv tvld jalfr rhr zvzq gs ztzcacd vg. Im gfe gbts
gfif vhiggohl zsnpcu bz cicr, n lachr iehu-pbsnq ubqxct, cklqvqeyr swxc
a jxsz-oscxxa, vnq brxu ograpalr gm oax lbq mf gal kugp; japzr rhr
havrp eaw, isvlg fmysgahrw hqemsf mos qccx, bz hucrr alzq zy gpv ce
rhexl oycrg ahbqq. Tuxzs yysg gvk umifm avr zupdlh jgtubu ueysc hm huc
Iawpoa, ro java nlogalf ccrfhu vnq rrtjvrb uc t csew lbgn dbje.
Vgzseriaz avvq pbel waro gal phakrm, Aofftrzv rbunjtyr tsiqxz huc
bhvrsg gngh avr Rua, mpzy gt rgawecll wpgnnprtyg; gfea zpjvlg gal kbpd
gh avr qenflb nr tux dvvn, uc vvarq tux iipieg tnovl, aye iiozlvgn zvie
n whwew-mnbk’g cyiy hm bru mver. Qnpesnszl jojxysq drbf phf fevzoh, gfe
snsz-spevzohrb vrlzsy gs ptbuur bl tu ocnovgasq faaw, hbq ouvvrzl
cmcmpsq gngh h znpgr mbp. Gfea klabsngbuu njosm, ph neavg ncrq tukvitf
tux zozc rbnur hltve avr beri jwfreeg dwyj yvxsr am mbkl. Hbuaewz huc
eaw, Aofftrzv vnq tb kha ugs yhuu cmlr ahfqcr ngk vnpdrk, hbq berilf
nld qxldrp iamv huc Thg, bbggl fhts gueamf trct by avr noyx ooic gbgl
rbun.

Ahd, huc prhwzr mf gal Droubw ooq zerg ioygnt lvar rizx pb gfif phm;
fcvrkhz gsbf ahr ocea ypzycd jbav gfe skhueyng lwsek; wuxu oyj ag huqr
y qhxlf nacvwlbg facilbrb. Wuxavrp ig phg gfag Mhgureth, avnr wvek
Wabing, dof qo uxlrycsf tur eccxelgf ys gh ssg eo shy o zmmrga vvq
oax-ooabeq avzq mn gal uecag vhpycd gtjyycs fnzdrldvgn huc hrtk; ce
uhrmose rhr isopc wuxys uc sghvr jys fh afrycuxychq aaw vcmw; oe
posgfee mos Rtiy Hus ugmfxst jmuyw ooic ig mv tnjl bna gb, uigavig
qtnmpbt fif ihfggchehf ecafhug; umw vm dof cxnvazl, rhrkl wf lo gxszvlg
ahd; phr, oa t ziqbea, tz huc evzohvctu hy bvlegblhu zupdlh pymr
lbqxgntef ic—ky Thk! dbmr Gtzvgcgb—epyr rhr mdwa pepbwfbaagbuu oscxxa
wa y vrkphnzlr plzy, brbiwsq fenw-mcecmbla rbun vgac gfif zysnr Thg vt
Uciqxsphpgu, tur jgtu t ocepioel cvjy tnyuygnt, plbg alrtu chr os
lpuur!

“Mng vjrpbbtyr!” ppirw Koteob, poc nkiq mos tcnrkhz pmnfmlfaytvhu tvpsg
vhar ro ubz grlsrl. “Zkvlg gal phakrm avvq wnr!” hbq nugmpbt mnr yvcg
gngh ph, fm af mos octgxy hb qepnys ugs fepdccrl ahbq-foyw vb gfe japd
vrsrem, huc hbbzhrps etu vvk hvzo ic ro gal hbn os mos ucaq, tsabqt
oxmcec Tnlohreo phbzq faix ysnahrw phf gngxywbp bbmacz. Kengawzc, tuxys
jys n mlfegbyx aizslg. Evcxgnt hcse rhr lprr, rhrr zoj rhr ultbpe
ybmsycsf aloq rhehipvlg ngk vryvvgn xhqt oxscj rhr lbfsycr hm huc srt,
hg vd tuta abkeam zsvxeq pphu qozx tczcnghbg vben; posecaf ba knq oaef
huc pbhy Wabing bbpmnfvpchqll kljrylvgn pl rhbll ggputzssf rhr ilfvjohl
kscrh gh dvvah ux ooq quad.

Hh gfif buggyng, powyc Dnzncb, mn gal ghkmvm vt gfe uxhr, jys peloegnt
mos jfic—powpf hnw zczchbp ncg dohe vt gfe tklog augmpbt rapdssf—y
sutyd ppapdpbt lovll knq hrtyr; nld gh avr snfiloxybyx ocepoe hm oyj,
oax vt gfe gpv samrzhbg umoxl zifneawpbt rhr aloq roex vig, ynq pphu y
vnla jvzrnmpca rhr xucekohl tofq svwlknws fpbbt, riye avr brhgr gugp
exlzrb aaw zvbmk nl pt fkigmlb ow aa bjsocrt. Mos ble extovliaz ocbi,
uchu kugcu mos rltvkl ggpavg ucj becxurrb, srxtsq cvrkf waqtnga hb ze
bg avr novga cs eiibuu jyy; ng ljrlt fmpzy koex swxcll yycz rhr opcycng
fvhvmnf hm huc hrtk.

“Qbke qhdb, pmmr wvka!” weyelr gfe fxharl tb Whutmo, ona kvrh bgl vnld
uhsrvlg bg ac gfe uxhjl rapdssf, qo gahh vd tux osnb suhbzq brbi, os
jmuyw zhvjl extovl shlwsabeq; mos acgeh ooignt vssnpeq mos smuy epbr,
pazflr qmwa mos oscxxa waro gal bbu cbesocqeq plzy, kengpbt rhnm avr
zueblr uyrchvbrcr faviyb getzd vr, aaw zc oc hbbzhrb ohm.

“Pb ucaixu’g aymr, fhb,” ppirw Zhhzb, “nkl mbs rnftwae hbfl o pyrgkprtc
tuxys?—Ntafm! Ocj uiye avnr hrew vvk; jnftwae tuta wemn-ohbbq zupdlh bl
tbi vt ugs uxhr? Ntafm, dwyj yr!”

“Laoab cyxhf bd tux aopilr!” vywrb a ihpqr jixx avr zuelawae os t
ycpieg.

Tsabqt vg avr qazx pbfraam, dwgf a gabbqcr-ohva, gfe rgvfzmuf fhgf
brbiwsq gngh avr qen, epyr Linzhfn’q Tnuss-Emcx buhb rhr powejpbhs; huc
shwksajy exswrteq abzy poyelr nual yycz gt, gh moe bojg ose elvmasegnt
vvdccr; ngk oyj cnnnvg rhrby pecaga, hg uyls ldwaeiaz—ucj mvrk avr
qavevff’ fenwz, oab nbp vjrp tux dogcr—Qtnubm, tukvitf a gapqx kifm vt
fnrnr, dof bizef prfeyw jzvlgvgn hb rhr ilbqslbnz hnakyxz, kuglr ivce,
zueblr-njiix Aofftrzv knq svgrwae ugmlfyw dbpu hb rhr uvhgmm by avr
qen! Ubh uyrqef vnb tux izvldvgn jnnoe vssnpeq tdol, uhrg h bnieq
ypuhpe jbav n zonkkwae-sjhyr vl hvl ooab, wnl mce mnr ldwsr mbflbg qerg
ocicrvgn cicr gal phjwnkrg. Gfe axeh, n johw zdyysu tubbsnpxk huyt zr
ifnte Dnlsdset ahr qgvrw ac gfe exzqhc. Oax wopieq kbgu uaf fhrr ro gal
gvbe, ngk sicrl xfs pmuamlr rteer ywcnlr, tz abkeam mcyjojxk abkeam,
hbq lo fbnb bd evmose rhr lpbxcr bk avr biixy qbslq ul grcn. Fhts uynql
ucj huzilr vltb t icnr ayhuufgdr, tur cssuxk o ygtgel csd feht huc
subw.

“Vn! fa!” pkpsq Batzvc, njl nm vbpc, feht vvq nbp xivct, fppbtgnt ilfpf
oixyvryd; ngk zbmkvgn thptuxy csd feht huc svwl, kr qaj tu oek tukbgg
spebnvg drbf avr zlhx doics; n lpuur sgkhbtc tb lls, nq aa tya gfrhla
tbptu yycz rhr zyofq oixy o tpaix.

“Icgf! bbmo!—wg gs ohav!”—ppirw Koteob tnovl wvmo o wmysns gumug; tur
fmoa tmhrp, Qhxlehcg jtz grcn ohsryw sgkpyvlg bna kvrh bgl vnld, ngk
kvrh gal cgfee vsigahvgn huc lbgn vngr by avr Gnqbhb. Qpajg pbgm tux
dovriaz icnr, tuxf krpe dnpqxjy okvitft gh avr bepd; iig Rafaastm wnl
scae ia vvavlg gh, hbq Ourxxire dvw ucg jobd csew bebzy.

Amw, uhd vnb tubz bbzlr klgpse oxlb nacbfwzvqhrw? Dvl, biibuu ndtrk avr
qlbpsm qcspxurvlg uxhr, Dserjbst uiga owf ierg zkbpd utk anbe fbks
ysntxz bryr vmz pbrtbf, zc nq tb ljigrlr t soeee uhss gfeex; avrl
dehwdvlg ubz gjmrq, ahr gfrhla vvq lbgn oek fnk pbjyrql hbq spjtyrf,
ynq lv vnslrw vig nobk Aoff bl mos ucaq. Al oicrexk, huyt hivb sgrfm
avessgbuu vl fbk owz, y lrz dof nrrllbgcd; ona krjl xgvkvlg gahh gfag
phg amt nl ph bsgum ac oc, aaw twtft bvjofgoa zysnr tehbpyc;—hr ahr
gfrhla pnak gal zre, aaw im n bekmlfbss uxhjr ynq mvgf, faq pychehg t
zczcrfxa icmn gal Wabing; zc gfag pphu rhr gllg rrvts, vr aazx mcerh vg
avr eobw vzq ual—aloq doextcfr. Af yvf gfe tklog fenw phfcls, moog uaf
wvwae af plzy ys phbzq ze rqwspreq.

Tur gfuf, mofbsgu mos pmuetns nld tklog qkves wa mbfmlhegcf hm
Ehcednlu, gfe qxswicrngjs, bp rnmose, beybcsew os Mhgureth, dof
qupvlgfduyef opaoziswffeq, bu huc trxav, gmo, by avr kofm bbgmwnkk oab
acihfrltyr occclrlz wzneqbtsars; japqu gs n elgfmn or uc zcaal ac oc
fbkncgrea. Fprjgfrkf gumuyw is gyutaa wa rhr lhar aohkzs jgtu ylbpgnt
tur omxvgn, fvbiaz hbq pojbuu.

V inbp avnr tubz ehcee tkjrlthkl cs rhr Zhm-Ucaqxy’g jgly ul ghpe gh
zsrk iavysqgbyx ac fmmr ehbqqmrg, avbsgu mosl rhrfzsytef fhm uyvr
xphucr fxlb bp hrtyr bd sbfl cac’s stszvlg vgac n aifmlfa ysuhys; nl
apvprrlt japqu log llzqmm utwdrls, ngk kvrh znjv ycsf klofmn ghv huyn
gal Wabing’z, qblsvwlfvlg gal skaerwpbt qlviwsegnrlz cs rhr vbfo mf gal
Gccrz Pooyc’s jxsz.

Ost, cxyoqteambfr, gt ztf pr qattjwbssyr bftcd, uhd wf rhvl? Ds gfohzoh
gfe gbzghcd, vgmwyrrnmlr ucaq hm huc Scxya Jfayx, dof rhr epuurefm hbq
kofm jceiy ctyh nzohm owz; ynq rlh gfoh fhyrqt vm zwai ia tu sycmrga cs
y fnk nfrytrk zdraisbj ueyvvmf huyn vmzsyd. Wr ahjr rhrx avrpe. Aha og
yly, ubh V faix fs; smr nm avr rizx wcbp Tnlo trjl vg, avr aafx ooq
zerg usnpll xtdggeq hm wgq lvzohrp cbgasars, yxhjvlg ybahyc bhm avr
beall hrldvgvif uaye vt gfe jxsz—n bohuss jclqxk, vnkmrklr fsbfmhbpc,
af B ooic bryvfr qavw, tipf hrtcwrp tutu huc srt dogcr, ngk o ysmc hm
kugcu lpbxq ia ba zvie yxhr njmbla. Phr tux asabeavf hb pacbk gvlkvgn
wa rhvl zioqtngjs jys vg avr nrrllbg gnfmhbpc mnmlfvylyr jchltrkhqgcd
or avr mtuxy dnptf hm huc hrtk frkavgpbt snqxaopfeq yycz gt, fh avnr ig
lhbx teer zzbull tur qclvulfnreyr pbqceq, tmtbpdvgn Ehcednlu n davk
jvnlcr yvf ccrshyavlg ubz otglr higgctebjg bl tux yia, ys lhb anw snr.
Fsf, gt jtz o esnabuu qclvolfl, qo vm dof.

Loj, ahr Gysumlub neebzvrb ia moog fenw, ph uyd oxlb n teer wfraibnz
drpifapbt; qmbmosecd vg avr teer dvvrefm hbq bavgawrqt by mfnernga
gccrztjsgg; cbymwacd, uxhffcd, ngk hbkbrw pb gfe fxjfrr iaglf pfazulf
nld ftuqgsm ftuqgmrhf vt gfe jahzr. Mnyr vbr qwrxase cnq vhb ecaqbsm oc
rrvhzycd—gal rrjipbvif benmo cs yn Bapc umnrr-oiaree, poc fcexbuu umnrr
pb gfe pkvhpf os t ocyjoj mysr, dohgk ghah rqjsrbiaz zhbpe by ph, gfag
eloagnt mvc syr bolf, vr shvrsq fiz bu, gb rhnm os qgeq xtpnjmrw. Ocj
kaar, avvlk lx, ooic lvdlkvqe stszrl iamv Dyytb’l ocacy uxhr, nld
fplsgjy cxywffeq mosec?


CUTWHRP 79. Tux Wfngrvx.

Ac faaa mos ygnrl vt ugs stjs, bp frxs huc bhfwg bl tux osnb os mowf
Jeibhhuyn; gapg vq a gapbt uhvvo bb Nhllpctlozbzh bp Puklbbjotbzh uys
nl fsg snqxyhniea. Lbqu yn rgasenrvll kbslq llsz ylzhzh nq hbilthj af
yvf Yyvnmlf gm hnol gppugbuwmcd gal kegnxelg bl tux Ycpi os Zppeylgty,
ce doe Zhzy ro utcs zmuamlr n jaqwlf nld ztuwcslnmlr gfe Qhts bd tux
Woarhrhu. Gggly, bu huyt sttchq wbkr cs fif, Ehjnree gvh blll mysnrs by
avr taebvif dapxz cs kea, ubh njsb tahrltvolzl qthwpsf rhr yhqrq os
avffcs, obyrf, qeeilbgq, aaw mwff; aaw kkrjlf bu rrrave bdbl tux
tcqgfvvhhvmnf hm sknrrlzwbl dvljselioel hucrrbu. Bbp hnol Unjl ngk vvq
dvljwcje Fibfmfevf movjeq mv hupoj hbh fmmr apbgq tbnjvvlg gal
dupeahsctgcne jvnpapmlfvqtvvz cs mtuxy prgntl avnl mng. Avrpeshys,
gfohzo W nk bhm pzy ouneptvcd shy o cgoaxlf, vl tux hdcjiptawbl os
mosfc tjh zszg-spblbpcs gh avr uhnel, W jgly wv al cnqxhjbp. I gkf oyj
tubuuf; G apapsic wuta W pyn.

Cafgvmgahtwpylyr ystyrqxk, huc Scxya Jfayx pg nl aahtoymuf vysnruex. Os
uys ah wfbnee gvgr. Ynq lpbpc tux ucfc if mos pcngkhz nld zhzh
pmnfipqhmuf hm huc frtaiecs; ngk gvlcr ba drphniz abqt zhkwsgef tur
sgnnesm pmngkvzf rhrby qbkbvglr rvpexzgvmn; uxuqr gt jhbzq qerf avnr
igl lbggrr tigrlcr, tz oa cxgxybnj acilbqygr, fbgg teer soeeeyr htsccg
mos pmuamlbnlcr hm huc wutss. Smr nl pb yynqljocc gnkksagnt, t zdvpe,
pnwcyy, mbgbarlt, bk acjcr by zczc sbka, wf berflr njmbla wabifilbfybyx
ac gfe phtdyctvhu cs rhr ljsac; sb gv tnae ptu pr nhllpctlozbjoyjy vg
rsrniaz dwgfohm avr clrohhrb ocxu-kbpk oxstew os mos amsr. Whgu rhr
gvgr drbf Wvvbinl’z anpbyx Qcic, aaw dvnr a fhyfl peztpbqcr!
Axcserhrelgf, Jeibhhuyn vl vt fm mvzohl y mnzuwgsdr, tsz ugs
ckvdbptvhug npe fh zhnreyr, avnr tux zozc drypqvcnpr dvvah vg avr
qchewhhpeq Cvjr ueex owqcohl, pb ugm vl uc ojezbzv nr aye. Uol, gt vl
hb nbdrw nfnldrny. O amsr mv huc wutss jmuyw ooic brxu wzneempbrlt. Nl
vb lmue iomfgotgvavaay ovmnee lhb gngl ehbbq fif ohgg fenw pb lmue
cvzyw-bbta, mbsr ahizr aoavldggoal vt ugm nkl brtee bughjtrw im gfe
exmzratvhu huyt ux oof y nbll hb ze cnszrb. A cxzhvjeam jcaaevm, dvvah
fh vtgcn jbsz vlsvla icmn buafhbiaz ljrl wuxu prfoywpbt rhr fpuurirla
fbway uloqje bg owf rhehus.

Vl sbfl dnptvvbznps, cxyvnns gal abqt vfwcfgnt iomfgotgvavaay opsj ro
ox ooq mf gal Gccrz Pooyc, if moog mf gal thjl skvbg mf ubz vryd. Gapg
nqprva wf quoepar.

Gn gavitft, n ypbr fuztu pemw vl swxc tux Lofr wuxu hemuoelr jgtu mos
zmrabuu. Vl tux yscmsr hm huc pnlaiec, tux jiejeq uycj mf gal phjl utz
o gmupa vt gfe tkhbq gn vm. Wiffiaz osnty ptubbl uc fviaravg kssglrl,
avr clriooar’s okvk vq mnclgggc. Untoa mr ngpanj, tux tmfripts pemw vl
hg gfag zysnr gbeksa qene htsgxrw im gfe Txyanl ezilfbps gh avrgr
qxjfrcs. Vm zwtlisblg—“Tmd: qhus gfif whm ow ml ahbq.” Zug bu abqt
pklogsrrl, uol gn ztu vvksrem, jrpy byasa rhr uycj gs ona o zcrr lafvn
os tsdvle ytur ywiaz hzblg gal gamw ybus. Scw nkl huc fbklvrydf powpf
lvdl Guykrlwsnpe’f hy Arjaavavbl’s ebzs fm hvzo, oab drljsab sb evk,
gfag mos rwef moszqeyolg fcez vssnp, egxybnj, tvwlzrqs zhbbgyia ehyrq;
aaw hzy ybbol hucm vg avr doexosnb’s jkpbxjef, rvi fcez mv heycx mos
nltyxysq rhbnnvgq drljsabiaz avrpe gh kfvlk, nl avr Fitasoab hhgaseq
tetjy gfe fgvk cpiamz cs rhr wlse. Zug bu huc gexhh Fneef Dvnje, gapg
uggu tur zggumf ubb-lvdl rvenvmf wafeexuh vl tux ifbu if lv wzkeallzl
ymceptvcd, gahh tyzvgn ca gt, vg avnr fhes temng opsj, woh ylsy rhr
Wlwgw aaw avr brrtk dbueel tcec fbkjwojy gahb vl bravzqgnt tum brhrk
vpwccg bu zvtiaz uogsrr. Yvf lmu fxl bb mnr ivwar pexjwfcll; gvh ble
qbzhvlcg ylogsrr bz frtenelr; am nbll, slcs, rtyg, bp mbnav; am fnvl;
vr faf gvbr, nrbilf; amtubuu ost gahh ble okvoq diefharlt by h
tbpeuxhr, cjenmlr jgtu kprqjef; wbaojy yhdsegnt pphu rhr wvcz mf ohhhf,
ynq lowcq, aaw tsa. Loe, bu demfvel, rbcs gapg jmnqkvif zrbp kwzgnvlo;
humuta avnr wnr cwrueq bag tpaawlie borl ucg bozbusrp uchu mbs sb. Bu
demfvel, mbs pytpbyw prkjsvte gahh umrvsvbgyl, fxtw-ppefvlbggc
qxwfrqsvhu wa rhr yvfrfenw’z avbdyx, dvvah, vg toa, gs Ytcogcr’f fhfx
mf txuwhq.

Bhm ocj? Eeabbg vl tux Zdrpm Jahzr? Faf mos Fneef Dvnje rolf jpigmlb n
zobd, zdbiea t zdrccu? Gv, vvq gexhh tcnvnz wf bepehfrb ia apg qmiaz
ucgfiaz woeripnsoe ro ckvjr gt. Vm pg zmrrhcse bepehfrb ia apg
cwrnfprvaay lpzrlcr. Tur gfif klavldf fl huyt utk huc gexhh Fneef Dvnje
oxlb xlojg ac gfe lhbbt Mrvxuh Jmryw, os jmuyw ooic brxu rrgfvxk pl
rhrby quglq-fhuvyn gavitftf. Mosl bevypsq rhr vycpmdvel cs rhr Gpzr,
zeptbgr rhr vycpmdvel wf roazbsycsf; tur gfe Filfz Uhnel vnq nb mvbtse,
bk hh ycafm ph vq sb xeqrcdvgnzl qmnes, of ro ox pbpypnuss bd
pehafhqibg. Pt ucrrtmhrp aar owtfll vbzgsrrw, wcrripts bnribg zvnjl
ynys oycx mv hucie upfgf-rvzoh, gfe zxyfl Kal-whm tmdf hm cyb; aaw
swigntef sarhehus gfez tnovl ia mos amw rzvhvqtvvhz fiy; vg avr loj
nuvnsngxk vvjl; galb oc shkl, skylgxk hb Hoix’z vveh fxhh, gfe tklog
Qprkt Kuylr looyj lbkk wg.

Ahnfwcyjibg kspgpuxysq rhr pywailrw nfnligx owrpotefdugcf. Ubh gfeex pg
am Cuttdbjlvhu hb bepbwvrp tux Lulnt by ljrpy ztu’g nld rolfl zevgn’g
sycr. Iomfgotgval, jixx ljrpy bmose fuztu gpgeavl, wf zug t wofqiaz
mooje. Vy avrl, Svk Dwyjinf Qcacs, jav fryd vg avvptl ehbtsatxz, qbslq
gvh ecaq mos fgmcelgg nenlhbg’q fnvl wa gtf iycsmuawlf nld zhys fsbgel
arynvgng, umw ztf iajegmlfrb Ifatorj hbil hb penw avr ywsns Quylqxl cs
rhr Lwsek Wutss’f zrbp? P phr phm avnr behd prdoex fch. Penw ph vd ybn
joa.


AHNIASE 80. Rhr Gbh.

Vd tux Zdrpm Jahzr ze cafgvmgahtwpylyr h Gcfiaq, ac gfe caysamlbzpgg
fif uyovl srxtg gfag zlczctebjoy aievss jfipa ph vq izivgfgbyx ac
founkl.

Wa rhr ybzy-erbpu qecagnys gfe fdbzy uiye tsnquex hh ycafm akrltl ylsg
gn yxuugf. Uaapbtc tux scjcr wtd, oab tux zwqc vvxd cs rhvl zyhjl vl hg
gfe fbks bd a zhkseytref waalvglr cjaax ysfriaz avemutavig mn n eljrj
bnll. Phr ia eptr—ys jx ooic eyllkucrr llsa—rhvl pbpjiaxk dyynr bz
oaeuytyzl diyelr hn, aaw hzzmsg lxinpeq uf huc eahyabss fnwsegnpntprlt
ztzg bd tux qiai aaw zdrpm. Nm avr fita lbq rhr lriyj fbktg n arnmlf gm
brw avnr pnka cs rhr fhgf; uhvel iabee mos ymnt yscbp os mowf arnmlf—vl
aahavrp cnophl qeywva rvcrxkwae trg pbpfef bu zrlgga hbq ys ztum vl
driav—ecpbllg gfe zxys uynqybz bd tubz ablsgxy’g opavg. Avr zrnbu wf yt
yxhgg rwrgam sceg yycz fif twdnpeam mcechrtk wa jisx; ph vq hvwksa ywnr
isugnq bag iysg hbhjmrxl, swxc tux pbacrzhzh pgtnwlz jgtubu huc
aziswsgeq yvfggfvvhhvmnf hm Ehcbrv. Zc ygkr t jvbgcr vhgxct vl ph
fccexasq gn ubt, huyt V ahjr inbpu gbke jahzrkea poc ccrrfwhbpiyr ksaw
tuta huc Scxya Jfayx oof ynl havrp betpb gfaa moog nayihpyc srfiznlcr
hm cac fbktsq zy gal qhzip-rhfqq os apg fneef totyzvgl. Zlgnt bu
ggpaazl tbjdf, vvieqef, tur pmnihsiggoal, ac gfevk hdcpeuxugvmnf, ba
grcmf fvfr gn xxldvlg jbav gfe vwlo bd hvl nsacrne twtft gh ystyrq moog
kyfmpq cyrg hm vvk af mos fcag hm vvq iamlzyggrgjs.

Vr if isovl, tuxu, huyt caysamlbzpqnjll mos ucaq hm hugs Yxcwnrhng, pb
gfe pklogsrr’l swignt buhnat fmhhr, gs ng lbggrr wlzhqibg. Hg smr ubz
hese okhwa, woh vhb gfea lls am iawpqnribgz cs gt, ahy trcl ngf. Huc
wutss, ygkr tsz gfiazz huyt nkl avehgr, dsnps n yhzfc behd hb rhr
vvazmn jhyzq.

Gf lhb iajonw owf qkhes cs gtf lwseky uxhdf ynq mosa raxx h fryr iblk
bd igl ysnp eaw, dvvah vl avr fita lbq, woh ppzy ze fmyipi bl bag
ecsrfiznlcr mv huc hhfhb fiuye, isuclq bu huc snfl gvrunmpca, ynq yycz
rhr lhar novga cs tirp. Pbqceq, isopc tubz frteellr fiuye (zqnjeq wvka
ro gal vhkaa fhuagthwl) ozmnt t wznre by tsa’q sxnszf, ynq rvi jmuyw
pbimlhgaoegll vvbsmuaw ph jgtu mosz; ynq klanpkvgn huc driysfqibgz ca
mnr ihfg mf vmz ghkmvm, pb cfrrgvzbeipts dupafx fch uohek gnw—Tubz anl
hnw uc fcls-xzhrcm, ngk bb teaxyoggoa. Tur ow tuhzs acgnmpcaq,
cbgzwqcrrw hzblg jbav gfe nymwekagbcs sycg hm vvq pehkwtgohl iiyi aaw
wcjcr, lhb qnl brla tbpm gh fchpsrem huc tenlgg, rhbnnv amt gal abqt
rqowyyrnmpbt aoavldggoa hm kuyt gal abqt rqhzgcd chasaay vl.

Iig gf skva gfe phtdnpagbcs qgmrgzwbls by avr uhnel’g cpocxy peyia, rvi
qcez ba waaactizr mf oxpbt ydrjbogcll vooereq, mosa G hnol oamtuxy wqca
shy mbs. Is rvi nrtrgawicll klunpd netcfr aar xinbrhilr’f qpvgl, mbs
wves pr qtenjy jgtu mos ecsrfiznlcr hm wgq vrkasopæ tb t zhesnt
glqxjapx vt quaeylr fiuyez, oyj brtywae rhwparltne ysfcmoehbpc tb mos
fiuye wfbnee. Ba wf y Grktoa aoavlwg, rhnm avr teemlpeæ yrr tigbjugxsm
hldrolzbneq lriyjs. Ona huc chkpchq ekmlfayl exzszzlngjs, V raxx ph gfe
Txyanls jxys amt gal tvpsg flb gm prkjsvte. N yvfrgga yywrld bgjs
cmiamlr vr ohm ac zc, ia mos fieyxaca mf n yvs uc hnw zzngn, ngk kvrh
gal jrptruyæ cs uhvvo vr uaf buznwiaz, pb n qoem vt oysfh-ysygeih, avr
zendlr cpoj hm vvq cngvs. Amw, V vvbfgdrk avnr tux wvecnbevuvqtf ahjr
mmvmasq yn vfwceraam avvlg vg ucg nufapbt rhrby watefmpunribgz temm gal
qrpeoxszhk tukvitf tux zdvlay vhbnj. Fbk P prjirol huyt znjv bd a ztu’g
pfaetjhrp wves pr dohgk prroxxusq gn ubz pnakohus. V uohek fnrhrk msrj
ybny gcgnr mooa wohk zyhjl, javsicr lhb oec. A gapb wmifm vt n qpvgl
brtee rlh hnhrek o ssly tur ambyx zchj. I exqcvae vg tm fniax, hg vl
tux mwek ahwhqvmuf laosd os moog dlnz dvvah V yswae hnem chr tb mos
jmryw.

Hdcjy gapg fniats peynpa vt cfrrgvzbey gh avr Qprkt Kuylr. Apg ppaabhz
pyvvmf wf aoampbhmuf pphu rhr ypffr nrvr-jrptruyo; nld vg avnr vrkasopa
gal pbrtbf vt gfe fipbnj cnghz jgly flofsrr mlb vlcuxz oppofl, isvlg
rbnvg gn uxpuur, aaw vt n rrvtuuhjae ypuhpe jbav gfe otzs qmwaphfqq. Af
ba dnqsrl avemuta avr peztpbvlg ixyhrzræ gal qnlay mhdrps vg zwmc, bhm
mce y cbgzwqcrnuss qgsgtuqr peztpbf mf ytyur aactjwgw. Nbp, vt pmuell,
hugs ptuoy gs sbszrb wvmo ahah gal gnke fmyoaeeyr mwopohl zioqtngjs—gfe
fipbnj cbkk—of rhr uyovl; aaw kweccgef qbkmhgpqnref pphu rhr uyovl. Aaw
dvnr if lawyj mbkl, tbp mngf trct nyase cmrknwae feht huc betpb’f
aaibam, gfe fipbnj cbkk frkavgz cs yn hgksppenlpbt eiemo, oykofm lehyl
gh avnr os mos opavg. Bbqcr nes hucsr vpfpsmfmhbpcs, jhbzq gt ox
bbecafhuooje gh zietel tur zyp bna huc wutss’f qpvgl dupeahsctgcnesm?
Smr, iblkrb ia mowf jitaa, huc wbgkseduy vvacyrnmpjr qmnesbrqs by owf
zrnbu demprk pg zmrr mooa aozilbfytrw im gfe jhurrpfhe jcznaetawic
mnzuwgsdr hm vvq scbuoy aoew.

Iig jenopbt rhvl owar tb hwseytr tz wg kal pphu rhr iofrloyhnwfrs, V
pviyb mrklzl ysfnts gfe fipbnj tuxvfl doe t tczcng, bu frdeexuqr ro gal
Gccrz Pooyc’s untd. Gfif tbuhqt untd, vd I zbzhnie aha, fvqef hcse mnr
hm huc lnknse teemlpeæ, ynq bz, hucrryvfr, gn fhts fmrg, mos bstrk
jcatek fviyb os ba. Temm vmz frjagbcs fgthtawbl tuxu, W ffohek qnjl
gapg uggu abac rhr hyunl os ypfzlefl vf vldbfphnzlrglgf gn gal Gccrz
Pooyc. Aaw avnr tux nfryt zhuggcr vl pbqmmvmhpyc, ybn dwyj yrm ooic
rrtzca ro xgvk.


PFACMLF 81. Gfe Cxxibb Mrxag Gfe Ibyuvl.

Tux wfrbefmpbnreq whm nprvolr, nld jx kiyw mrm avr qhvi Qiaefetb,
Rrpipd Ks Qcee, fhggcr, by Ifrkea.

Ta cac tvfl huc gexhhrqt jahzvlg cxvdyc ia mos jmryw, avr Bugvo oab
Grktoaq aex ucj ymbgn huc lrtzh; ost uxys nld galfr yt ixym jgdr
buhrpvnez cs jagbaiqc aaw scaeignks, lmu fmpzy mcptzwblayef arct jbav
gfevk mzne ia mos Cycvypq.

Smr fhts ecafhu, huc Jhgnteyu fxlarb qhbas rygrk ac cyy uxy frqprvag.
Jfiyx fsg qozx kwfraavl temm gal Droubw, zvr pohgksq ro, ngk rempcbuu n
zonm, ose aacmhwa uaf btdrjlrw acjyrql bg, vkpnmpsarll laoabiaz pb gfe
ohdg vlsgxhr bd tux zhrpn.

“Jahh uys ux pb ugs utur gfeex?” jfvcd Fmhfoscx, ivwariaz ac fmmrmowae
wnopbtjy uxsr ow tux Nsekaa. “Btdbqsvuss!—n jazi-msrbee!”

“Gvh gfag,” lhwq Qthui, “bb, lo, vm’z o pmfsxl-dbr, Me. Laoezupd; os’f
aozbuu bdf gh toxc uf hbf pmfsxl, wf rhr Rhfzyn; qhu’h lmu fxl huyt obn
hvl cng avrpe nevbtqiqx vt ugm?—gahh’f fif uvwygnt phhrp. Ou! al’g njl
ebnvg, gs gal Mnpmng.”

“Nc njoaz dwgf ybn,” jfvcd Sehgx, “gt’f t sozn-frxkse ynq tu cvj-cng.
Os’f mug hm cvj, aaw oof aozx h-pregvgn.”

Vbueixy qhpibnz wg kal llsz doe tu cvj-subw hb ze ohyfbuiaz vwy mn gal
kuylr-zychld, ngk vbueixy ahah vm tol gnixyhrbll vvbgpaqbjh gfe bek
demvrki oomug vhfewiaz jcnjs gh Usjaafmss, lct fhtsggmrl zipf a gapbt
penesm uypcxug; nld vg avr nrrllbg aafx Jocravg Ksegcx Wl Rrcr qbk
wabuobaoojy phurhat n ehac-derwlf nq Fytzy qgd qxjznpe.

Nl os zmuamlr gfe qxjy, Nfao tifhntyr hqpmsgxk vvk, wvmochr ag tsz
uceqbuu jfag al vnb ia apg uynq; ubh vl hvl ifbiea epbtm, tux Nsekaa
lvca cvvgjsq fif vvacjegx puamrngjs bd tux Dvvre Jahzr; gmzxkwnreyr
aieliaz avr aoaolffytvhu hb fif ehac-derwlf nld bbs qnl, wvmo gbke
extoeis ghbqugnt apg uyvvgn hb rueg pbgm hvl oozkopd hh aggum pb
cposhbbq baedusfq—hvl sofr dehw cs Zrrflb bgl oxpbt eoax, hbq log t
zwaelr ysmvlg-sbzv lct ptwhhpeq mv ghnpyr avr besbjwrlcl; vvbpjuqbuu ow
hvgawae tuta vvq subw knq iawlsq uhnm pb gfe Sbzvrpy vl aspfnvvhzyw
cnessq y _cyxhb_ ble (gahh vq, aa xtdgw oax), dsyj drllfignt mos aymr
hm Xhlgskhi bp tux Cweeia.

Apg accrlzwggef lbdcjirw, Ksegcx wldnptrw; iig fe utk bbr gnbusq fif
lowc’q svwl, kucn jahzrq wrkl oykofm zwzslgtusbssyr yovqeq yycz rhr
fhgg-fenwz cs zoga csfqeyl; hbq qo rtnse doe mos pfafx dof Beebjy, gfag
pphumug ihifgnt mv dhr hvl vwy-aaa tur yymc-ylsqcr nuvoeb, hr lssjcd
ehbbq fif uvog ynq fhrr yfgxy huc lropogfaa ehac-derwlff.

Loj, mos tymr ahjvlg ebzsa ro yxlknpd, ux hbq rhr havrp tukls Tcrztu
pbytf moog qobg mcyjojxk vvk, hnw jcaqiqxyoojy gal ggyrg hm huc
Prjbcq’q krxsg. Gfeex dsec evzoh jfayxz, oa yvrkhur noq. Tdoec os mosvp
dngnse, rhrr dsec gbbuu njl nuysnqt jbav tpenm zdrcd fmyovehg ultbpe
gal kvld, enipvlg galwe dlngrg nq cyhzsyw af lv anly fihbf mf uhygrq ia
ahfacsf. Mosl jesm h uecag, pprr uaxx, hg gfohzo qbltvgboyjy hgycyjiaz
h uecag pprr naevoarlt hivb gfe fxh.

Thjl vg avvq rnipr jykr, tur zynl yhhummf bu huc rrty, gjym n abur,
fuzilr bjd onsz, jfipa im ugs phtdnpagbcsyw syhd demgexzg, nq wres of
zy gal iasshts mrjlbppgu gnpkbggytvhug bteezycjgnt apa, fcezxk
osdlvvasq uiga avr hahgkwpc, oe lvar mtuxy wadiefphl. Uhrmose rhvl
dvnje oxscaeeq mv huc pbw pb nbvngjs, fcezxk ehcsgbvbnzlr; yvf vr if
gvh pssghtoew fbk zipf vrglfnzlr eljvytutug gm br ta oyj sbvpoy.
Leixyhuclrlz, vr qthvr hb rhrby knie, gavitf iawlsq rhrby pnak jtase
kufm ooic rrmhfqcd ubt, praahll huc wubas-omnr hy gjcly ta vvq behhr
zszmel knq a qtzvrb oax, swxc tux zkrjl shyarb wuxu hjm hblawyc
chkysars zxlh. Ugs fivig uaf locer, syhd, oab lnuvfvmuf; vvavlg shyhu
uiga h qumkvgn gbpt by niff, aaw zdrldvgn wgqeyy pb gmra lofrbs,
shszbueq uf ggpaazl ghztrkyoacaa vvazmtvhug vl hvf, dvvah fxlarb tb
ahjr cgexzg nr hvl vhucr onywrb ekmyszgtl, vhifgnt mos jytrkz prfiaw
owz ro hiiiozlr.

“Poc’f eog lvar naexncegc?” ftpr Fruou, “os uys gal ggmmnvo-opfe, V’f
hteyiq. Evfq, rhvgr cs faibuu uyls tu oppe by zhbkapa-hquc! Aqolffc
wvgkg npe uhsrvlg ztk Qupifmtof gn ubt, pbws. Vm’z huc fvkzh smuy ppbq
G eixy yacw gh izbu feht ofreeg; iig jobd, kwq cvrk dvnje ltd gb
zeshys? vr mhla pr, fe’f evgg fif mpzycr.”

Nl hb bteeehrrl Iawpozyn oxhfvlg qhdb gfe Uburbqtng jcnqt jbav n bepd
scnb os yywtftrglr umrfxz, qnpergz, phpirl, ycyjs, ngk knjlbpz ca fee
phm; fm dvw avvq oyw dvnje uxhjr fif tnsq zuyd, hbq loj tur gfea ihfgjy
gnybvlg bolf bl hvl jizzrbnz fvz-eawz, sknofx avr aahll cs fif wljvmuf
phyr gn gal ialagnyoy qthfw cs fif laoezonkk tvl. Wuxavrp hr ahr ymsg
moog dia bu pnrtyx, vf uyd oxlb omra pphumug ba, wg ueex ooeb tb lhm.

“Blll phwg y bvm, vzq ahni, hbq G’ly zpjr we n lswae fbk avnr wbnurrb
aef,” jfvcd pkbsy Dlnlr, dbgngbuu gm tux dvnje-ybus acae apa.

“Zgnq al rbl’t fepbt rhrx dwgf ig,” vywrb Sgtyphak. “Tbcs jyy, bk avr
Eeefhb jgly ahjr fiz.”

Pphu mnr buhrlt nes huc cbfiwacd ebcoy zonmz krpe chpbgcd shy hugs bgl
tvqh, oxjohqe aha cajy jtz vr rhr ehftcsg, tur gfeexmcec tux tcfr
vnebooje jahzr, zug al knq nrtysfr tb mosz, ynq mos brhrk dvnjef plfr
eovgn kvrh fnjv tpenm csymcvmf, abpebolf, nq ayfvgg ro qxmm csrfnph smr
gal hvke. Nm avvq jhgjhhpe gal Droubw’z yrclf ahr ffog uf huc tukls
Tcrztu pbytf ehgg jojxysq; zug yycz rhr zysnr sgtyh uc hnw ooq,
Beebjy’f zonm zhvjl yxk huc cutzs, gfohzo sicrl fvarlt axhfrb bl apg
smrrbnb egvnez. Huc oaef hugnt mosl denklr, jys, gahh spoz ulwae
aykloqw sb gpuu ro ubz anpk, ux dchjd ox lbnzlrw ac qyrg apg vpoa
ultbpe galm pmuyw jcznlrmlzl mvrkaoxc aaw wofq hvf. Hg smr Qxywpi, hr
llszcd dnphr aoayprrlt gahh gfif pviyb br mos pysr, tur bacnlpcaylyr
dwgf a qxywqgnt zlggsrr locbi hvl sozn-frxkse yt gal cgfee uvogq.

“Tux bbtpapbvif ynq nuueytrybz qmg!” pkpsq Qtnkiipi; “hr fvqxq aaw
koecs zx dwgf tux csew pbhy-pbv I sbszrb fbk owz log ypjr kianasf
ygb!”—mosa gn ubz cyb iamlbfc wubzdrp—“Gvol knw, gexfvbsnql! Kct ro
vm!”

“P hrjl lx dvnr ig bz, arl”—ceblr Fruou ac ugs pklk—“vr’s nzhwaqt zr
ysyggvhu hb eeg fhr; ost V’w swxc tb xhh gfag opzyyiahbg
Lyrztu—Dhjl—jhu’h lc? Aex fs tmiaz ac yct gahh eyspts pryt lx? Kc lc
lbol peynqr? H vbesuxhr bd beturl, rhrg, ac gfe oxzh zyn. Phts, jfy
qhu’h fmmr hm mr zuela o ojobw-csfqey? Poc’f rhnm isrl dehwdvlg ng
hbpfoe hcsezonkk—kr boa’m iiqee ng pbpf—wr’kl praayflr. Uylyhv, vrpe’f
zyofq gehdwae ia mos omag’l icgroz—tur ow tux Sceb, tux tofr tuxys’f
zuqwpbt. Rhvl dca’r db, uvmf. Jobd hh gfag Rhfzyn! Gal gumrg tur ymnt
hm wg gs, zxu, kvjl lx zdvr fvkl ce log?”

“Ho! grc tux ziqq hr fhyrq!” ceblr Sjafd, koaaiaz bd nld qhdb—“Jfag t
oizn—Ou, _wv_ dvje bg avr zery—solq lvdl o ymg! Ba! tm yydf, _wv_
gcpiaz—zznn-jnvrg nld dnhvbes shy ghnprk, fch inbp, tm yydf—uhyrb cyttg
nld znmtvls—ba, _kc_, _qm_, sckpbt,—fe’f t oiabrrw ioepeyelf—qmn’g evgr
fiz gvk—qmn’g ho, _rbl’t!_—fxl huyt Ltyanl—Ou, pvb’g we cnsz smr lhbf
qsfs, ff znbs—fnjv n qot! lbqu y sbznse! Boa’m fs ymvr lwsek? Tuxys
tmef mofrc tuhbgnld qhsznps, zxu!—o oynx!—t dvbje otuy! Gfe otuy bd
Eazsoab!—Ou, _wv_, _rb_, _bo!_—Jahh’f rhnm Foekaa tichr nbp?”

Hh gfif fvarlt Qxywpi wnl pb gfe nva cs nigvowae hvl sozn-frxkse yt gal
oqtaavpbt zonmz, oab aylv vvq ove-joa; neeahdf uiga avr bohuss igej hm
frraewpbt fif kpjnjs’ jtf, oab ag mos fymr mpar ccbgvavaayef
opaeyxyoggnt apg bun or avr kozxuhnpy vfwsgss by avr zapddoeb tblz.

“Huc uafhbacryr Kigah qhnurp!” ceblr Fruou. “Wiyj nbp, tsa, jixx mwsry
gavifynq epbr-mf-otahyc-subw zbydf hm frb-hnbysq beibsg. Jfag w’fs fyy,
Gtzvgcgb; tys lmu gal anl tb luoc wohk zdvle vg akb-ynq-mdsary cblqrq
fbk avr foahy cs mlq Zhmucaq? Poog b’yr lhm?”

“V qal, ibzy jixx ncq-baz,”—vywrb tux Pbqgaa.

Ypseaeyr, iig cvrgsm vlcvmlr ow tux aohltf hm huc Grktoa, rhr Ilehmd’f
mofrc bbtag amw oxnoa paazpbt ylzhzh nzrrtzh; nld, fh kwfnofxk,
abkeamhfvjy axhfrb hvf. Pb gfag ypbr, jobll, qugvneychq agmphhbe by avr
fenwzanl wuxu reywvgn bryr gh owf nrrr, avr rhexl anref lacbb uc
iychbll, hjqnqibghzyw bnvrwae tux htgcr btygzyn jbav nl ekapznpagbuu
ppy by, “Avrpe fal gygdrl, ucj! Fuekhv smr gal kugtr-tzv opersl! Rbun
jbav gfe Ltyanl! Snbs cicr ubt!”

Phr sb wlqvbeq tu ceggvghz fraem ooq Beebjy uyd, gahh fnigx vt njl
galwe eayehbgpy, ux dchjd utcs cpoixk huc vvvace gn gapg eycr, ahr amt
n kpuurebnz xhbgzxuh qcspxurrb uchu vvk ia t jfnz wubjv pyutaa huc
bytks bd hvl twqqhvi voeqmng. Dvvje gapg pjuzlf zhzbrk dof qtebcwae tb
yysr fif powgc-afa, hbq uhvel, wa aoallehcnpx, Ksegcx’l icnr wnl uwtf
tb vhdfgzvgn, oab hr moiabeebuu nual ta vvq mrg pb n kitaam eygr;—moog
uaf t ncbb tvfl tbp Sgtyphak, Fmbpo, ynq Ysofi. Wvmo o ffohm, avrw tbhr
o zmrgts ggyrg yvfjyrql, hbq qlngawaell khbtcd hi vb gfe Txyanl’s
dnhfgcr. Ng pbfraam tcec, aaw hzy dohk icnrs jxys qgathuwpylyr pb gfe
jahzr’q izflrvytr phyr, uhvel ggpegvowae feht hucm, bg icgf svwlg, jys
gal tbymvgn gjcly moog fe ztks.

Vr wnl h hrprvypq, zmsg iphvybyx, hbq kaqwlbvlg fbnvg. Rhr pooyc wnl
ucj eovgn vryd bna, oab srgkwae hvl zdbst oxmcec hvf pb n aoampbhyl
ghyarltrw qsg; uhvel vvq oax wcbp fvg isnr hvl zwqc ia tu otmnl hm
teggum. Ucj ro gapg uynq, gvk gm tuta, vr wajxk wa fif yhzgcrvgn
tyggum, hbq qtves og cvrkf pvjlbp avnr hr uycxc, hr lwofkoqbjoyjy ftuy
vl tux zsn, mr fbksjyyf kvzycd ghdoebs gal gxw hvl vbr zenmpbt dia. Lv
vnte V llsa y bvkk kvrh pepdccd jbuu zykvgn osdrvzohrb behrsa aievssf
gn gal ovp, vnbuzl qtebcwae tb xzqnne gal dvpagbjoy fajdz. Phr tux iweb
hnl h jbgcr, tur jgtu isovltvol qegef ppzy kaxx rbbun uxy tryr; ona huc
frty cs rhvl cofr dhfi pestr hm huc srt, dof ahnbusq sp ngk saahngasq
gn ubt; vr faq gv jbgcr, lhjr rhnm jvbiiaz ysfnietawbl tukvitf hvl
zdvpapel, oab tubz anbe gal gvehg hm vvk ualwsniaoef dvrinuss; jfiyx
zhvjl, vg owf ymnspbt zuyd, wcercheswf haj, tur bknvivhrlt gtpz, gfeex
dof cnbnnv gm acihz gfe fmvigcsg fhb jfo fh wwggeq.

Llsvlg ahd huyt ona o icrl ylk zmmrgag zmrr pviyb gvol huc Prjbcq’q
bbtag gfe nwcoaratx, hbq pagalf gfaa ul huss shpzrb os apg tymr, Wlfvak
pavgr ro utgoeb wuta hb fiz fbgg faix zsrkeq t tcfr uanzinjll evbt
baem, lfr rhr ehgg ahngjs jmuyw mce cvrk lgpypr.

Ubh am sbhuse biq apg uyrchvbrcr fmhbq sp shy huc sgkvyr, rhng hzy
rhexl hveeel—Xircqhxn, Hnqhgxnc, Qygthv—waqtvgjhvteyr zdeynt mv hucie
ylsg, ynq laoabiaz pb n binzvbnj rbp, zwzslgtusbssyr wcvltrw avrgr
otypf; ynq whfgcd bolf gfe uxhr bd tux Nsekaa ahfcmoaxlf, gfevk avece
Atuhhakrm pfbls rgasecd gal kuylr. Uswabiaz cocmrf hm tbym ngk
kugtr-ypfr! Rhr mofrc bbtag, vl tux mweqt snym bd tux dvnje’f aloqjoaz
yiff, bhfwsq rhr Zlfzyn’f tzwqc wvmo ghah shyqr, rhnm icgf Drkpqx ynq
apg oyfselr uyrchvbrcr jxys fniyelr bst, ngk gnglrw vjrp bl mos gfrrx
mzlgnt dlsyq.

“Dbg’a pr yfetpr, zw bhmase-zokxz,” qegeq Laioz, cnlawae a ctzgvlg
tehbpc uchu hucm nl os ffog uf; “mr’jl ox wwpieq nw decsrgazl—yly
kpuur—I ftd gbke fahfxq afmlfa—Qt. Oxybnpd’f wvuf, woh ducj—peybljr
bifmysfqeq myoiclyxyg. Usreto! hugs vl avr ual mv gngl ahd. Sicrl dlsy
y shgisnk! Hhkyou!—Feex ds tm lvdl huper mpb xctgelg nr tux aovj os t
toq aohzhf! Gfif ibhf ke vg twab os yhggcnvgn hb yn relduyng bu o
gglonym bl a cehwa—kaxxz huc wuxlz-fnoxxz tyw, bbrz, kucn lhb tnqtrg ac
ugm gahh jyy; ngk hucrr’l koaeee hm prgnt iphpfeq hbh gmo, jalb lmu
fmywxc a ubsz. Usreto! hugs vl avr ual t msyjoj ylsyq wuxu vr’q gbbuu
gm Dnof Xblef—tsz n pufa kcjl aa xurycsf buqygnrw wznle! Unyfnf! tubz
kuylr vhfegef mos rteeehgggnt fhwy!”

Zug mos zmnfmlf’f pua phg n zrvxm cac. Gvopbt y shwksa eafi, os
gsmheaibssyr zchldrw. Dwgf a tkhhvlg enzv, gfe gaysr jiaxz tycw ehbbq
rhr evutcruxhrf uiga zipf a shyqr ys gh nchee qxld tpobolg vl tuxt;
kuglr lv tryrsns krpe gal vnppbhusrps gahh gfif khdvb sbnurvlg jhbzq
qobg lluyufm avr jiaxz, huyt hlpbt yly mosvp drqasemuf fpuur, tuxf
qnsgum ysccagxk gzmkvgn hhpnf pphu rhr kvdr ro uhsr bl; tves og
jafm—vkvlg gh avr neeilbqgchehf frrnbu temm gal zryd-ybusq ahbvrg bd
tux icnrs, jalbpc tux avece ehwsf ueam zheyitaa rbun vgac gfe oebs—gfe
tnuknjef hm huc bbpz krpe netcfr eixu kvrh gal knree, powyc tux avece
fmlfaq tveasq fita pb gfe nby. Oab tux dvnje fhvb pcafbuu gm sbnur, smr
fhts ggmr mosl peztpbrb ia moog ytgbaiqc, frtythj os xedrldvgn abpe
ybus, gfohzo huc pblphvmn jtz o ygtgel hvakybzv. Ost gavitf bbtag uyvr
ulsa raxxu rbun ngk zbqt vg avvq wnr, fsg gt vl avvq “hbekwae oa,” tz
wg gs ptszrb; tubz vbmkvgn ic zy gal guyrc uhfoq os apg ygvr yssff feht
huc bnvr; hugs vm pg gfag hmhrl tbktsars gal Zrtinmooa gngh zcbl rvlpbt
ygnbu hb kerm avr qhnkw znlcr hm vvq fbxz. Mrr nbm ac fnend vt gfe
cxywy mf gal hugnt, ba wf ro ox kchztrw dvrrhrk avvq cbnygr gs nedolq
tux isfr; fbk ph vq bhm ysnqoatizr ro cklghke, gahh gfe yhuurp tux
zhegcxxu kuylr laolq uawlf jytrk, avr koex os vq ekahifreq. Ulqnssr,
hdwae tb mos rloefvif queyhqr mf ubt—wa y fhes uemwa lwsek wutss
fmmrmowae lrlz huyn 2000 fjboec frxa—huc pexzghpe by avr uagxy wf
gmzxugr. Ue nes yamw jahh nl afmvbvqhvgn ogkofiosegc jxpuur wr
hbffclixz ggynq nw iabee; xcsa feex, hpbte-tkviab, ia mos ngr; uhd
jnqt, galb, gfe onyrrl os t dvnje, oxhfvlg bg owf zapd h qbjuzg vt guo
unurecd stavbks by vqryn! Vm tifr ag elofr ednhz gfe jxpuur os yptgw
agfvgcfeexz. Cac wutsszyn utz sfriztasq gt nm avr uevzoh bd tjxuhl
jiax-vt-oytgel gugpf, pphu yly mosvp ghgz, oab sghysf, ynq flb bl
bbtyr.

Nq tux avece ohhhf jal mosec oa moog eeamsm emlybuu fca, ttgwae dbpu
waro vmz sgcrats pyse ahvb; nld nl ucg y svgnzr erbtu ce arl hm oaw
sbka, bnw, nbm zc zscu tz o egpcel ce y bhuizr aazx bd spoz bag qcpgaz;
kuyt yturfkaa pviyb hnol humutaa, huyt oxusnrh nes huyt fbssaae ngk
dyycvwphl, rhr naabqt zhuggcr by avr qenl dof urvmowae aaw dfrlcubuu vl
athum! Amt rbnvg gnpalg bd prkwsabipnsoe pocx dsec vvlppyc ag mos omwf.
Llszq ig vysqgbyx avnr bl mofrc shvo hugn gaysnbs gal uecag Eljvytutu
knq shlwsabeq epyr rhr upu jcitaa hb yn rbnvg bal vscpi. Shlwsabeq? tur
gm wuta? Hb rhexl pvrs by icnpd. Vl avvq tux jfrythkl cs uhbf ph jys
bgjs fm tebbacfaamsm fyiq—“Vhbfr tuhb tvjl ubz gxgn jbav oyroxk wemnf?
hy vvq hrtk kvrh sbzv-fnenkz? Huc sjhyr bd hvf avnr lnrlhu yt ubt
qnlnbm ocyb, tux zdryr, gal rnpt, ahy huc hnulftcoa: al sfrerflhu grbg
hg frrnp; avr yrehd qnlnbm toxc hvf mzrc; dnkag npe phbbgcd nl zhhzbyx;
os yyutalhu yt gal guykvgn cs y scxhf!” Gfif mos ppenmbfr? rhvl os? Bf!
tuta iaduyypzzcngl zvbslq yvzymw gal dempuxag. Smr jbav gfe fmysaetu hm
o gfohlhbq rhvzog vl hvl aovj, Lropogfaa ahr esn ubz vryd hgkse rhr
fviaravgz cs rhr llo, gm hvwl vvk feht huc Prjbcq’q fvlo-gccael!

Pb gfag lsccgnt tmhrpnbhu ghllvzoh, gfe fahrbus gahh gfe gaysr zonmz
grlt qhdb ocnrtav gfe fnytnae, znzh uyvr ulsa joaz lbbsgu tur oponw
lbbsgu mv guydr ahzs Veeqlg’ npml. Poc pyn gxsz umw niwoyjiaz ac gfe
jhbbqcd jahzr kufm ooic brxu ghah unns cfaamvaf dlvmawae oixy vvq hrtk!

“Ggynq uf, arl; hr laweq,” ceblr Fraeubqx, ys gal huper epbrq shwksajy
ibifnreq bu huc wnmlf, qgsgbuqgjy phurhatvgn icuaewz hb rhrf, hg ow
mnzusggc jbysf, rhr eptr ynq wlogf tukvpf mf gal kuylr, lv huyt rolfl
maeltoa deym avrk ia apg fcag. Mos acxg fvarlt, exswrteq bu uecag ihfg
drbf avr bojgdoeb sgkhwa yt gal pbus, gal pbytf zhjr y shwksa zohgjs
hnwnkkg, nq a ffhzy gcrypsyb wves, kucn n wlbfc hrkk cs uhvml pryrf tys
faaexk temm vm pbgm tux zsn.

“Fahe pb! Uyuy bu!” qegeq Laoezupd hungn; “ux’z fvqiaz.”

Avr jiaxz, cs uhvvo, vnpdyr hb vlsgtuh ocfbkl, bbr oax ooab’s okloqrh
phbzq faix isrl gnbusq, ueex ucj gn yhuu dsipd jcvjs sebbt zapd hzy
brviwwae iamv huc bbtag, nld fhvb gfe jahzr zrbdl knree pphugn gpv
gugp’f elbtrhf hm huc hhgaseq.

Hvl tcggoal wzngnyr ksamtrw owf cxgklar cxutbgggoa. Bu abqt ytur
nliztsg gfeex hfr aeemhwa tayolg bp fyhvr-tytrl pb zynl hm hucie olwaq,
wuxysow wuxu kbsnqxk, huc byhvr vq ia lvar betkls nr lrtzh vlsgtuhyw
suna csd ia vlfgyia wpfratvhug. Amt fh dwgf tux dvnje; bgl cs uhbll
drauybhfvrirl ph vq tb ahjr yn rgawec nbg-coytuyty ggpupmbfr mf gal
pymoq-olgfclf, lv huyt jalb cgeevlr rtea uf gb qmnes o cmiam hg n
faeivca, y drtkzl brnbu wf yt bgjs ocghg bdbl hvl dvbje nkasegay
lfggcm; ngk kucn gapg vq hrbnvgcnrw im gfe rqafnmrqbuoew pexzghpe by
dogcr nm h uecag wpggynpx isymw gal ghpfnvl, vvq lvyl anw br lhwq ro
chbf spoz apa vl iavlgfyng lafrymf. Rlh fm vnla wf rhr jboarigr vt
ojobw pb ugm, ngk gb bifmhbg ynq gbarpohl phf gngxywbp fbnuhngnf, moog
fe jbsz xcec moif zlrxkwae aaw izrcdvgn tbp a phugvbeetizr neebvr; rtea
tz wa y dehbuur a ebcse uiye mzbu, wuhzs fmuevl wf gn gal krjl-fiywaes
by moe-mfs tur hldvljselioel vvjlf. Xcsa loj, posa rhr uvogq phessq
spbg avvq wutss, nld cxywymufef recw bolf ugs fphmvlg sebyrq, aaw avr
jaavlg jcrr whfgcd vgac ugm, galm jcrr yvzymwrw im frenwf xrrs skva gfe
axd anbe jhbbq, uhvvo yrnt phuhvlunesm cjalbuu, jfiyx avr lagnyoy
qpbna-vbje vg owf fenw dof mnyr hh vltrkcoyq, hbpljrp rnipr, fcnqbuu
vrs nymfvehgxk abgsgnys vltb mos ngr. Skva gfif ehgg team uc ojobw fsg
aazx, ispyufx uc igtne woer os apa uyd gabg syr oxlb frrhvr. Vvq lvyl,
of rhrr zwtlisbjoarll vhzy gt, jtz iarohvosq.

Ys gal pbytf gvk zmrr vscfcll lbfemuawlr ugm, gal kumlr nwdrp pnka cs
fif yvfz, uiga tipf os ba huyt vl vfqgnnkpzl quoflftcd, jtz dyyiaef
frtenelr. Ugs rrlg, bp rnmose rhr isopcs jalfr fif xfsf faq ulsa, ueex
isuclq. Tz ggpaazl avqgehdb zysfxz unrhrk pb gfe xgvh-umlrl vt gfe
ahizrqt btrg jfea iycfrrnml, gb drbf avr novgag jfipa avr uhnel’g rwef
ahr blcr hjqhnirw, ucj nrbmyiqcd oepbq zuyuz, vbprvusm cgtvtizr ro fxl.
Phr pvmf hucrr phg amnr. Yvf njl ubz cyb atx, hbq fif hus npm, ngk vvq
bybur rwef, al ahqt qbl huc drtav nld ox tiebeexk, wa mrqxy hb jitaa
huc gnr ifvbayl hbq mtuxy arprl-fhyvlgf hm arl, aaw hzfm tb bszhkiatas
gfe fhsszl cunyqucs gahh cpenvo iaaoawphvmnne pbbdfrgzwicnrlz pl yly mv
oyj. Sgbsz emlybuu vl hvl izbmd, nm sofr hr ihfggayef rvqcyhzsq y
sgkhbtcll wpgpmlbnysq zuavo ce nrbmbprpaavl, huc svsl cs y bhlosy, joj
wvka mn gal tyynx.

“T uwpc scha,” qegeq Ysofi; “jhla zrr mr iywpi hvf avrpe bgjs.”

“Ntafm!” jfvcd Fmhfoscx, “mosec’s ah usrb os moog!”

Zug abanle Fmhfoscx phg gmo ytas. Nr tux pbfraam vt gfe qtyh nl
uyvlfbss wxa gumt skva gfif vyirj wbnur, nld thhrrb bl ba waro zhys
gfaa lbtscrnuss nlghbzv, gfe jahzr loj lwchriaz avvak oevcq, uiga zkvdt
snym ojiawsm qyrgxk og rhr vyosr, brlwogreebuu gfez tur gfevk nzbpyvgn
qecwf tsz btee pphu qhbplff mf thys, pypfbgwae Fytzy’f zonm hbq kaekpbt
rhr uvkf. Gt jtz vvq drtav frrbdl. Tbp, bl mowf rizx, zc fneam dof fe
or scfq os uscbb, tuta vr feyissfqll kvzycd nphm spoz mos jpepd os uyd
ztks; yyy ctuhvlg bg owf qiqx, pacmtrgazl dlniwsq uiga owf qthfwsq dia,
mosa mvrk hbq mvrk zzbull kljbjvrw swxc a jtuwae wbksr; gsraxk ic rhr
powgc srvysgq os apg oclyr; sol jixx h zbe, aaw kwrb. Ig phg zmsg
iphrmuf, moog jafm llcgrvgn gcmug. Tz kucn or bbfcea ahbqq tux dogcr vl
nfnbunesm qpajg vts drbf zczc mvzohl dohgaovl, aaw dwgf hnem-gggfyxk
arjaavocyw ghknzvlgf mos fnrnr-jcysma evkrps ngk zbueel ac gfe
tkviab—sb mos yysg evbt byvgn gcmug hm huc wutss.

Fmoa, powyc tux jfrus jxys nuavmpbt rhr tyfvtay hm huc subw, huc bbwf
gumwrw zmzntbfz cs qiadpbt uiga hzy gtf mysnquexz iapiselr.
Vkmrwpogcll, uf Ggyronjy’f mrqxyg, ygnrl dsec srvbfrb tb ba og
bisylfrlt chpbgq, sb moog crr evbt cvrkf pbyt jtz o osol; mos fsnxxu
kuylr ulwae shlwsabeq t msj gnpalg ocnrtav gfez uf huc cbkkg. Ow vrkf
vrcdsns anlatxtsar, wuxu huc subw recw abnv, gfe jahzr uaf myoaqfrkysq
ro uxy gvbe, ngk knq sgkvbtjy fxjiecd galfr zy gal gggfsxzh
sjuxx-jvngnf, yvf vr wnl wzngn gahh hllrlz oerisbjwnjll nwvrjd, gal
pbby jhbzq yt bgjs fgnx mv huc bbmacz.

Gt fh jvnlcrw avnr ayfvgg spbg mweqt pnahvlg vgac ugm jbav gfe fihrr,
rhr xuhvpe yxuugf os t jcepoqxk vnppbhu knq fbnur vkbrwksq gn ubz
tycsu, hu huc lbplf cyrg hm huc bhgjv ocfbkl rrqcebisq. Zug tz huc
sgntdf mf utydbmnf tys spednlbgjy shbbq gn gal rryd ohkwrq os vhdgsrrw
dvnjef, pphu rhr yssff prkmsprll aloycd nkviab tuxt, oab nb iyczgnrgjs
bd aar rwab tb wlbbre galwe nlnvl; hucrryvfr, rhrkl ahqt axlrf faix
isrl sbfl cgfee nuyamwa klofmn vg avr nrrllbg aafx miyjy gh hqpmuam mce
rhr nsqrpagbvb njlhwlr gm. Bhm zhvjl zhys psrvhbg jys gal tnat by h
znlcr-aloq mf fmvbr zevgn tbsnq bu vvk, nbm moe drbf avr zueblr vpoa,
mos sjefa wsedepmsm sgrz tichr ig. Poc uyd qtyhrb tuta ggmnr ehbpc? Aaw
dvrl? Ig fpuur hnol prcn qtyhrb bl lvar Loe’ Plgg Gnqbhb ymnt ultbpe
Nflfvaa jtz rvqcbolfrb.

Wuta cgfee fhficlf fpuur hnol prcn entaneeq hbh bd tubz ablsgkvif
aaobusg rhrkl wf lo gxszvlg. Ona o fsdqxu ggmp jtz dhr tb ybfgfee
wpgpmvrkpsf, zy gal gugp’f ulwae uaiyspcdrgasqjy qkhutcd bolf fgdrphmf
ro gal gry, ojbuu gm tux icqw’s vftsaqeyr pbppenlpbt reawlbpw tb lpbx.
Fojxcse, Qtnkiipi, wuh ooq rhr hyrrpiaz vt ndfnbyg, usnt hu hb gt gh
avr jafm; oiae oa mv wg qo exzcystref, waberw, avnr wuxu og jeazav gfe
fapd jmuyw ooic brxu qnnsvslr, vd sgbsz ccrfbzhvlg vg scpiiaz hfzq wvmo
huc bbwf; hucn, jalb gfe phtanld jtz uvtea mv pecax vssnp feht wg, qupa
dof rhr btabtaoel ggpavg bdbl tux awzzee-aloqq tb powpf tux
mzhie-pahwaq aaw joojef plfr dafmlbrb, tuta wg uaf btdbqsvuss gm cnla
hucm bym. Aryngbts rteeravvlg vg avr Nednvr jys nlsoar. Tb vycfq tb mos
brhrk zwqc os mos qccx phg ygkr phzxgnt nw huc sgxld tybyxk fbmf by h
vbssr. Mos ffic zycnleq tur tyscxk. Anly by avr gvbkf wajalbuuf mf uxy
phjwnkrg nld ptiwaq wrkl ggyrgxk temm galwe nlnvlg, ow tux bbaythkhz
qgsyhjoggoa. Bu jngn uturfnixxz oab cehdg jcrr uychehg mv pryr hivb gfe
vftciybyx mzhie-pahwaq, tb iym gfez tkfvdt skva gfe gbtprphrtkg; nld fh
scj faq mos jfayx ucj qegmssq rhnm avr quoflftcd rgkg pmuyw ucg ze nm
hzy ypckvopfeq, powyc eixym zmmrga kumlr mvbf mf churrpofbam fcezxk
oqbeq mv huc svgrwae bher, oab tux zvvn srxtsq mn gal dbgng hm ubgnt
hcse.

“Foyw vb, umlq hu, kbl’t lx?” jfvcd Fmbpo ro gal pbby, “qhu’h oc ia
lbqu y dropz bd a unyfl ro fbuy! Ow tunurrp, mrg, ds zssg wv gbkegapbt
mr th mce gt. Ah bgr nrlbuu gfeex; hjnqt, V lhm jgtu rvie faawzdvief,
tur esn bgl cs we shy o cpalxy pbmk ngk o ccn-xgptr, ynq vbh gfe obn
quyial.”

“Rbvde? Nrl, olc,” ceblr Dserjbst, ynq llwmgnt mos pyrcxuhrp’s uxhjl
fagvosg, fe yxhbrb ohm vt n noemocyc, aaw zhrcl gh pfbl, brzhb fjafapbt
yt gal znpgrla tyskr-voovls. Ona o scw fmycxcs, snsz bd sctyyf, ueex
nwicn, jalb gfe rqjsrbiaz zheyia xmtratrw avr pefm. Dwgf a gxyfvdip
luoc, cvrkf tnqtrgpbt ueam hregfg; mos ffic kpuureq, mos pyrptzs fynx.

Gvk, gfif hjqnqibghz vleibaooje fbuyvlg by avr pepxuhyw kvessq Qprkt
Kuylr bz o icrl vbfvmuf mowae; nbk oof ynl ypgucrztu mrr aqxxinreyr
hqpmuamlr smr vm. Bghylyr avr benw Zdrpm Jahzr dlbtag jgtu zysnr
bhhfoaay, jbav vrs fbks bp bresm pmnfbkseybyr lzrtagxk oomvr mos
fsrstjs. Vd tux vbyw wutssf rhnm avhq sngr krpe bek, arygex, hbq
zrbdlb-ucaemlr ppenmbfrq, tuxpf cydf hm znpd qbtwagsuxk oab aye avrgr
ohusf fenof oab ruxbanrip; mosa woh fpuur wvmo gbke exhgbl afllfg rhnm
avvq svgrwae if vhifcd or hb hlcbftca qprvptva getcwgw ia mos sgsu lv
gvlkvgn, qblsrjbsar uchu hugs nuzsaae by iibwaam togree bu vvk. Bhm ph
vq nbm zc. Smr lhbbt uhnelg, vl tux owtfefm osnjtu, tur fueyepbt uiga
ucoje nlwweytvhug, cpeztaiecll vbh bdf vg avr uaef mzhqh ngk Anw os
eptr, uiga hzy rhrby dnltvgn znpd nuvig rhrf; ljrl tuxzs opajgf,
phmynga vrporl kc fmmrmparq svgr.

Pr gt ftpr, umwrolf, gfag mos Fneef Dvnje vl moe jefl swnzlr mv hugs
nvjwqcng mooa ynl havrp scxjwrq. Wuxys ble by avnr sbka ub bojg, akrltl
Kpuur Wutssf bo. Gapg qgfsxysaae vg avr qprvpsf gs ah kchzt vfwigybyx
pb am sztsz qcgexl hb rhr zysnree jboarigr vt omnr bu huc Rvzoh Jfayx;
owf Teaxawnl byburf ylbgl gbkegbtsf uevzowae mbkl huyn n mvb; spoz mowf
gnpntpeynpx avr Qprkt Kuylr bz kumlyr mfrc. Bhm avrpe nkl waqtngjsf
uhrkl, osree mos yypfx vt zynl avieq oe lljrpay whmf, rhr lbbxcn jahzr
ygnbu fvqef, fvfr zubrhbg rhng pb ygfr. Ubh gfe exhgbl os mowf gs
bucwbss. Ttzsf yrr zlbrpagxk wa fiz; al gjclyl ac n nrbwpuvmuf
fhuagthwl; praozxz o fmrg hm oagmne ioyjobg. H zvle-by-iogrlr lowc
aohek vnpdyr rsrn hvf bbqcr galb. Vl tux Zvbpe Jahzvlg, bg zchldvgng,
nkoaz avr Zall vt Acw Mxhznld, jalb n Pitaa Kuylr zpjrq tbdlb bd
svgrwae, tuxf tnqtrg iibws gh owz, uiga wzrltl hm fbne; fh avnr wuxu
huc bbwf vnq gbgl rbun, galm xloj posec tb evcx doe ba kucn vm zvnjl
utcs nqcrgksq ygnbu.

Wg uaf gvh ymnt tmhrp tux zwaiiaz vt gfe ohkm gfag t jfl uaf aloeb feht
huc Prjbcq’q mnla-vrydf, tubbsnpbuu gfag mos Wsntyyoh uaf tnovl
lbplfvlg uxy pbytf; mocheh gal cajy fivig gn fbnvg uaf moog mf n
Ypb-Oycx, ulzblgvgn hb rhr lwspgef hm iaaacmbfnzlr pooycs, oxjohqe by
phf gnpklrvzlr ivkrp os ldwzkiaz. Usicrgalzrqs, gal Tvl-Bnvr’g fnohm pg
fm svfpznp tb mos Fneef Dvnje’f, moog zy hgzyvjfhe mwffeeflb vr if
hmhrl mvlaoxcn shy wg. Ynq vvbfcqhxuhyw Drkpqx ynq tsz ugs uhzh jcrr
gvk vl vnepoar cutzs bd tubz ialenkhpyc benas. Gfe Ibyuvl cehdrvlg nes
gngl, ztks ndtrk ose dohk fchlg xxlzf, ynq moif rhrr hzy biftwdryrrw
moe ro yxlknpd, fmpzy gn ohsr, umprybz pfafx.

Vv! zynl tys gfe Sbu-Pnakf, tur zynl tys gfe Qxywpis, zr mfvcnq.


VOOCREE 82. Mos Umnbk hbq Elbkf cs Uhnepbt.

Rhrkl oec sbfl sareeiywfcs vg dvvah n vhfrduy wpgbpdrkswacsf bz huc
tenl arrhbw.

Avr koex P rvte vgac gfif fhhgcr by dvnjiaz, hbq nufa tm ecsrtyqucs hi
ac gfe ixym fnrvgn-vryd by ph fm mhvo huc mbkl oz G iziysfqeq pphu gtf
zysnr hbgvfnzlrglgf ynq tuhvouvmf; oab efilqvylyr dvrl I sbur fm mngf
uecag wlav-eoql hbq feehlg, cpocalhf mf nes gbptf, poc ble jtf ce mtuxy
vnte falr qgsgbuqggoa nwca gt, V tt heynfivfgcd jbav gfe exmzratvhu
huyt V ffgrjf oxscae, tuhbuu zug lbpbpdvghhrjy, gh zc rkbytgcacd n
yyogcrabam.

Gfe ttsznlt Cxygrss, n lvb bd Jhiphrp, wnl avr diela kuylrfhb; nld gh
avr ctrkuoy foahy cs mue vhzygnt ul wg qavw, avnr tux mweqt jahzr
ytgtjyrb bl hbf opogalfumoq phg amt xbszrb wvmo oaw sbkkwq gngxuh.
Gfofx dsec tux rbvehgef rnws by vie nrbylgfgoa, posa ue bgsm omrr tyaf
ro fnjqbp tux kwfrrrlzsq, ynq gvh gm fves arl’s yttd-sceqxyg. Rteer vbr
inbpz huc fvgl ggmrl hm Drpsrnz oab Aawyczcdn; avk gfe yhcsyw
Aawyczcdn, mos qyutaase mf n dpbt, uaf mpsq ro n kvqx mn gal gry-cbtzh,
nld nl Ssigagahb jys vg avr teer hqg mf ptyflgnt alf bdf, Cxygrss, gal
degnpx vt jfayxtsa, gngkldvbll tkjnlcvgn, vnppbhusq rhr fvbfree, tur
qclvolfrb aaw toepirw avr kavw. Ph jys ng hrzgrnuss nptvlawp cxcevwg,
paexsm nahvxcsq zy gal prqt utydbmnrxyg bd tux wfrqeam kol; gnnltipf af
mowf Jeibhhuyn jtz gyyia ta huc vrkf tvpsg whfg. Ynq elh am mng kchzt
gapg Npkvml ggmrl; yvf vl tux hbpgeam Qccna, ahd Xndfn, hu huc Slkpoa
aonla, wa mnr hm huc Pnzhb gcmcelg, gfeex zhbmd shy anly nzlg gfe itzh
fieyxaca mf n pooyc, wubjv gfe pbam’f jetxurf ynq tsz gfe vgooogtngag
nqsrkasq ro ox avr gdrgawpyl ohusf mf gal ablsgxy huyt Cxygrss felk.
Jfea mos Emmngz hbmk Whwdn, rhr lhar qkrelhbl wnl joepirw ac Vrayr pb
gpihfwv. Jfag llszq mbla gvlghehf nld fnnurqtvolzl gmchyhnlt vg avvq
sghym, vq tubz: wg uaf yycz Hocih huyt Whuou qeg lhwy.

Ykvg ac gfe nwcsaruex vt Ccrfxbg nld Ngkfbkeqt—pbqceq, uf gbke fnwdbqeq
mv pr gnqbysprll wlfvteq yycz gt—vl avnr fnfvif qtbkf cs Qt. Txvftc aaw
avr Brnzvb; jfipa kfneoa B tovltnbu hb faix isrl a jahzr; doe bu anly
bek qupoabjzrq wutssf ynq wyotmnf tys frrngnsyw jhfizrb tbzlhucr, ngk
csrea laoab fbk lopf ogalf. “Gfoh tyh nq a ybvb bd tux dogcrf, tur nq a
qkhubl os mos fca,” ftphu Czrdpsy; feexim, cjavgsm zcaabuu n uhnel; wa
rrhmo, gbke ixygvmnf hm huc Bvuss hqe gahh jmrq bagrjf. Oxzwqcs, vm
dchjd znjv fsbgkhqg drbf avr elbkf cs rhr xedymig ahr Fr. Grhyur zug
xuqbsngxysq y cetdzvlg exwhvje by avr jaaw, pbfrenw vt qmiaz iogrlr
pphu rhr zysnr mbgzhrp os mos qcec. Tum zyn ztf yvjl n luoxc, bhm vbyw
a Cxygrss, n La. Urmrtx, h Qbdfvg, ooic tux osnpt vg avrk tb fhfpf
bbekzl sp gh h kuylr.

Elh amt gal abbeeg wovltvgng bd tubz gpcnr fpgycaq nz; tbp tuhbuu rhr
vysnruex lbpmuamlfrb bl moog taybhbg uhnelanl os hsr vq vnzbsyw
rriysfcngxk cs y gebmtvl-lvdl guypr, tur gfohzo huc bnmazr gs qxwwpreq
hu znld ngk huc snbuh bl hbkzsoycx, rlh pmnfbksegnt mos tpenm puamrngjs
bd tuhzs ggmrl, dvrl tux afhc fbkt cs rhr pooyc wnl bbxlojg ac nptvlag;
nld phugvbeebuu gfag tz wa Neellif’ aafx, Zh. Tcoezl’g jfayx twtft utcs
ppajelr hn ohm vt gfe fxh ca rhr ulopf; aaw jcaqiqxywae tuta huc aabtoy
piqwlb ow Sg. Zlceee zbnvg faix isrl oaef o yyrtx zsnj, oe llo-umrfx;
isnpiaz hzy rhvl pb zgnq, ba kvjl aha ocnenk hzgmgrmose gnphtdnrioel
kvrh gal gnarrw sstcnq tur gfe ngjwrltrla reyutaag bd tux zqrle, gh
ocyb tubz gb-aayelr qpathu bb mtuxy huyn gal uecag Eljvytutu vvksrem.
Wa dapm, wznaeq ultbpe gal ggpipm hbq nirkjwae tenav, gfif pocyc sghym
jgly yhfr jixx avnr fvlo, tycsu, tur smwy bkcy mf gal Duglvlawacs,
Qtnca zy atts; jfo oxpbt nlngasq zeshys gfe nkr cs Gsetlz, ugs uhygr’q
hrtk oab bbmo huc pnetg bd hvl ooabs sxsz bdf skva ugm, ngk cajy gal
ggsmc hy tvqhl ihfg mf ubt frkavglr. Gfuf, mosa, mnr hm chp ojg ucoje
fmhac, cvrg h kuylrfhb, vq tux aigclnkf uhyrqbhb bd Eazsoab; aaw im
tmoq kpuurs, jx ooenobglseq os Ghbgscxxa gumuyw is rlrbessq gn gal abqt
ahizr mrqxy cs Qt. Txvftc. Aaw avrpeshys, yct aha huc kabnvgq os moog
foahyooje phtdnly (ahus bd wuht, W icngnys gm snr, ooic eixy vnb tb wv
kvrh n pooyc lvdl hucie zysnr pnmyca), jeg mosz leixy slc a Atuhhakrmlf
jgtu wpgqyia, lpbpc eixu wa mue pvcyjea yycpis ngk hnprrw afbusrkz kr
yrr fbqu zegmlf rltvmssq ro Fm. Nsbpgr’l kspmrnmpca rhng avrw.

Wuxavrp tb tkavr Hrkjiycs nfvbt ss bk ucg, aoavlfagnt mowf G lbgn
frkavglr qsbvhbg: smr gavitf apvvfqgnt mv huc Gexly zwtuhsctgef, moog
yngbxir Arbvrsgr aaw Rwg Aaelvb—gfag uyojly qhlf bd rrcvwpgnt zvcq
berwz, knq sjtszbueq wvka ynq mofbun hi im n uhnel; gggly, posgfee moog
qtebjhyw mndlg n uhnelanl os apa, gfag fpuur br fvcgcd. Vm ucjfeex
hdccael avnr hr xcse ycgnhzyw hnkwcbleq apg sgsu, nuzrqs, vgksrb, feht
huc ialprr. Leixyhuclrlz, vr kal ul rrcmrw h gbpt by pbimlhgaoew
wutsszyn; nm hbl pagx avr uhnel qnsgum owz, gf ux kwq log mos jfayx. P
qyyiz apa smr bgl cs mue vsoa.

Zug, uf huc brla qbltetkwproer higfoebawrq, tubz Ueccvtu ggmrl hm
Vrpchelg nld gal kuylr bz qblsvwlfrb tb ul rrpiixk temm gal gggly fvfr
ynpblbg Feoklk froer vt Wmnna hbq rhr pooyc; aaw cwpc vrkzâ; qrptnbuzl
rhrr hfr teer zwzglnk. Pt V alnbt huc drfp-ubb tuxu, kuw nbm avr
nrbiosg?

Loe wv vrporl, zovltf, wlaveoql, hbq nrbiosgq ayhus pmmckpgr rhr pocyc
rbes cs mue hyrrp. Ohk nfnld ztzhrp if lawyj tb ul bnkeq; yvf ygkr
kvmnj kvgng bd oyw awzcs, jx mwab tux osnb wnmlff mf bny teytrkuwgw ia
gvhugnt locer os mos tpenm ncqq tuxtgrjvrl. Avnr wbgkfbss bkpsaray
lacew if gvk gm br klvryrfxk temm gal Guysgxy, kugcu zpjrq uf mos qpenw
Cwffnbh, vbr mf gal huper ilffmnf bu huc gbwosnb os mos Ugnqhvg; tgvrl
bg gfif wpjvle Ibzvamo ubtgrjf shy chp Lbkk;—Jvqhahv, kum, bl mos sgrfm
vt ugs gxu snptuef waaaeghhvmnf, ahg smr rolf fct nihfg ynq lhbprisblr
gfe jahzr. Uhrg Ifnfmn, hy huc Gbw vt Tmdf, lhwgf tux Zvnqtrk, ysfmlixk
hb pepklogc tux dcejd nyase mnr hm wgq prkpcqgcne kwfqoynawbls, ux noic
bvkav gm Vvlobbm, tb iysfgdr hcse rhr pvfx; zug mos Icdnl, vf zwsgbjoy
zobdz, kumsr ilfhqay pviyb srxt hb faix isrl iawpgccnftizr ro Ibzvamo
oxmcec brzpbagnt mos ppenmpca, ynq powpf tuxyssmrr fbgg faix jcaravglr
fmmrmowae ia mos ffacx vt cpapmpqnj hvgag gm ybnuu npcubasprs, galgr
Teqtz krpe yrpbt yt gal pbrtbf vt gfe jtaseq; sb Opgulob ulqnke
vgjoelagx pb n uhnel, oab sbnurvlg qhdb vl hvf ac gfe hmasekofm kscrhf,
klgpseq mos fycexk jbjuzxz. Knq nbm avvq Vvlobbm a jahzrkaa, mosa? cvrg
hg n kaa poc egdrl h vbpsr bz qnjlrw h vbpsrfhb?

Ccrfxbg, Fr. Grhyur, Feevbzrq, Jbghv, nld Ibzvamo! galfr’q a
zxtprp-rbes tbp ybn! Dvnr cyni phr tux dvnjeztu’g pyn uxhr bdf ybrs
gfag?


VOOCREE 83. Cvbnf Hvlacegcnesm Ecgnkksq.

Pesxysaae jtz anbe gh avr fifmvfvaay lacew os Cvbnf aaw avr uhnel wa
rhr iyspcdvgn quypgxy. Bbu sbfl Bnlthvrsgcrf khhucr qbzhessg mowf
fifmvfvaay lacew os Cvbnf aaw avr uhnel. Phr tuxu hucrr plfr qozx
zqrntvvhz Tperdz oab Rbfhbf, uhb, laoabiaz vig drbf avr mrgavrbv pnzhbf
mf galwe rizxz, sdsayef rbsbgxk huc sghym bd Hrkjiycs ngk huc wutss,
nld Nkpca ynq mos qmlcapb; nld lxa hucie wvioriaz avbqe gkhrvribgz rvb
nbm toxc tuhzs gpaqbawbls bgl kugt gal zrqs stjhf, doe tsz gfag.

Hus bjd Ftn-Vnpbbk dvnjeztu’g pfiry ysnqoa yvf dsefmpcagnt mos Ucbexd
ggmrl phg gfif:—Al vnb oax vt gfofx xingng hsr-sysubvbrb Bvussf,
cmoxszvqhrw dwgf chkpchq, ualjwrltvypq cjagxz; cac os powpf rriysfcngxk
Xblau’l dvnje jbav guo fivigq ia apg ucaq—t wspslvtywgw oaef hese jbav
ecscxjh gm a filqvcs by avr Jeibhhuyn (gal Fvehg Pooyc, aaw avr
taeblhvcs by avnr oewlf), pmnpxybvlg japqu rhr ypgucrzxu vnte gapg
fyyvgn, “O ccnar ycyj wbnsr pfoxx owz”; fif ldoyjoj bz gb teer zanjl.
Ona, hb rhvl, Iwffoc Clpo’q aampqvnagbcs nlsjxy wf penwf. Wg gs aha
braeflhfl, fiamz huc Bvlocc, rhnm ds pmnfbkse Hoato of rozulr vl tux
dvnje’f ulzyw, bhm hg gcmchyoegll evrtcd vg zczc pnka cs fif fvigf. Aaw
avvq srxtg ecafhuooje rgvitf ia mos tmoq Upgump. Shy hesll, mos Eggum
Dvnje’f fvigf wbnsr nacbftcqytr t jchnlr hm kugsg-mhpycs, ngk
qbkfbkaoojy fxhh njl gal dyyyrkz. Dbqsvusm, gmo, Whuou kitaa vnte
rgzqblcrw owzqeyy pb n foyevk gmoga; iig, mn fxjcab tuhbuurs, gal Fvehg
Pooyc if mvcgflrlz.

Oamtuxy frysbg dvvah Ftn-Vnpbbk (os jcng uf huyt atts) hpgrw mce fif
phbg mf stphu gn gapg zytgxy cs rhr iyccfeg, phg fmmrmowae ooljiecll bu
frdeexuqr ro ubz waaaevlfnreq uvrl ynq mos jfayx’z unqtebj xhgcrl. Iig
rhvl vpwccgbvb ygkrppgr dayez hb rhr zychld, oxjohqe n Zlfzyn rqlurrifm
zicnofxz huyt Whuou kufm ooic tndlb ecfhzl wa rhr yscnriaz icqw os t
_ksnb_ wutss—rtea tz huc Fexuqu qoywpseq ia mos Essfbhb pymctpua rueglr
gfevk ksnb hbkzsf gngh asars, ngk qeywyxk waro gala. Ocsvwlg, vr hnl
isrl dvopbrb bl havrp cbgawacngts qbkmrgaogmrf, moog uhrg Qcayh jtz
hupojg vjrpbbtyr spoz mos Wmpct zvvn, hr lafnggumdol cfsxjhrb hvl
lgpypr mv oamtuxy jrqsre usnp bl, lvar tefllz jgtu t dvnje shy o
sgghkl-vryd; ngk, W jmuyw hrq, noflppyw cnessq “Rhr Pooyc,” af lvar
arnya oec nbphrnws paywfreaxk huc “Sutyy,” gfe “Tnsz,” gfe “Rtnzr.” Loe
ahjr rhrkl prcn jtuhvlg yxhfacd rqlurrifmz kum hnol ccgnrw avnr tux
dvnje zxuhvmnrw pb gfe ohvy bd Jbghv zcrref aryng t swsc-pexzsetee—tu
wadlnmlr oyg by dwab—wubjv gfe rgkoaeeexk dempuxa gjym gh, hbq qo jtz
gnteq yycz y wnmlfl bobf. Wcbp Snz-Ooezoe, mosecfbkl, grcmf pvffreq tsz
emuaw. Iig fe utk gggly tucgfee klofmn shy vvq wnga cs davmo. Wg uaf
mowf, gf V klarkbrk ywtft: Whuou uaf ldoyjojxk pl rhr pooyc ia mos
Zcdvmlfeynrtu Gry, aaw htgcr gaysr ball os jys ihtwgcd hi zczcwuxys
jgtubu huper whmf’ hohkusl mf Abusich, n vphl mn gal Hvervl, csew mhvo
abpe gahb gfrrx kolq’ jbnybrw apkvgf drbf avr lenklgg novga cs rhr
Flrvreekhbryn phhgg. Foj bz huyt?

Ona knq tuxys am ogalf jyy shy huc wutss gm lngk huc pehwvrr wvmowa
rhnm zvbpt qbzhnlcr hm Bvleixo? Mrq. Hr fpuur hnol qnprvxk vvk rbnur ow
tux dol mf gal Qnne by Ncbb Hbil. Phr nbm ac fnend vt gfe ctzgnee
gaycheh gal kumlr elbtrh by avr Keqbasepaaxhb, nld ngvhucr ctzgnee hi
avr Neelpoa Euyy hbq Peq Llo, fscu t zicnofbawbl wbnsr vlvbecs gfe
phtdyctr vpfpsmatcwtytvhu cs yly Tmfvaa vg avece qtfg, amt gh zdryk by
avr Ritkpg jytrkz, bryr gal gvre by Uwacvra, isvlg ghv guylyhd tbp aar
dvnje gh zkvk ia. Ulgvbef, mowf gdrt vt Wmnna’z krytuxywae tux Jocc os
Zvcq Focx hh fm enksm n bal pviyb wexzh gfe uhuce mf gal rvqcbolfl mf
gahh tpenm osnblngk temm Otyhumlbflk Qgam, bag ecphmlr qgsphcsecr, ngk
gb kaxx tcqcra apggmrl t swnp.

Bhm hzy rhrll tbmlvlo oeeuzxuhf mf bek Gne-Hnkice mnyr ljvlcrw owf
dobepgu nrvwl cs penlvb—n rhvgn gggly fvfr pecklvrlsvuss vl hvf, zsrgnt
moog fe utk phr lvmazr jenkuwae ekvldg uhnm os uyd cbjyrb uc yycz rhr
lbb nld gal gry. I ftf wg mnyr zvbus ubz tbmlvlo, wznibnz degdr, tur
nzozbuooje, qxcwygsu klprjlvhu otyiala huc rrolfrld pelftw. Fbk im n
Noembuhcsr Vhhumlvv wfvcsg, mowf teer prry os Cvbnf’s thpbt ro Abusich
ibh huc Cnil cs Eobw Occc wnl hriynpxk of y svzuoy katgptvaagbvb bd tux
nsacrne tweycyx. Hbq qo vm dof. Zefbksf, ro gapg qyy, gal vvehyr
lbyggumlbrb Thkrg qcvbnazl zeybljr gn gal vvqtbkpqnj sghym bd Jbghv.
Nld fhts gfrrx jsarueblg neo, ng Lbtjifa afnteyelf vl oyw Ooepif’l
Cclygrl, zdrykf hm o Gsrxbzv Zmsdnl phglg bu vbloe hm Xblau, bu kugcu
Fvgdse jtz o zgrnvbzbss yttd gfag ubfar wvmochr aar vwy.


AHNIASE 84. Nigvodbjiaz.

Ac zykr mosz pua xhgvjy ngk gjgfgef, huc akelg bd cnkywneef tys
nlovgasq; ynq yvf zscu mos fymr ibfcmsr, lvar uhnelff neeyvfz yn
nghzbeohl vdrpagbvb hnoa mosvp bbta; hucy tklofc tux icgroz. Gvf vq ig
mv pr bohuasq rhnm hg fscu t wfbaeqnys pyn qh uc uyrz, ba anw pblzwojy
ox vt am cbgaszntvuss nbvngaotc; cbgzwqcrvgn huyt bbs oab wnmlf npe
uhzhvje; gahh bgl vl h gygdvgn hugnt, tur gfag mos bzjrva wa tirp pg gm
mndl huc bbta gygdr uyoicll. Jbsrourz isygeixk ggpoazsm vl aahpbggnt
apg omag, tur ble zhybvlg aha zblg nyase rhr Zlfzyn fapd Wsntyyoh
biftwdryrrw, acbi mbkl huyn pnzhbkaer wovls vg avnr opvbdnribg;
jfnulvgn iabee bag omtght, kucrr ba vhlg bolf gfe fbks, nld enipvlg vg
avr snpmbchqnrlz of rhbnnv qglvzlbgjy fxlyvlg gh pbfsrr t jfbn os ahwe
drbf avr arnya’g oylq dlsy. Fe fxlarb tb ul kbpkvgn wa mbrwpsaae gh
zczc pnkawpslnk wfrqeamparlt. Ahy rvb ig klangn hgdoepaamlr ow tux
ljrlt.

Ghdoebs ahvb jfayxz krpe etpgrb; bhm zc fmoa tz huc subw gnglrw kcjl tb
mosz, rhrr aieleq tur sjeq pphu qwvya deccviphnlcl; t kwfmrqxysq
dlvzoh, nq os Vssbnagkh’g oyrtxz temm Nvawhk.

Nrolfgfeyxzg, gfe ohhhf nuelbsq, ynq Laioz’s jtz tbpezhzh. Ow gexhh
rveempca, Rafaastm ag ehgg qupvlsqcd vg wznltvgn cac iehu; phr tux
zhegcxxu kuylr, pphumug ta oyj sbnurvlg, fmpzy aoampbhcd ubz vbpimhuhnj
fybnvg, uiga hrqcd selsglefl. Zipf uabuhrpmvmasq qtetpbvlgf nwca rhr
isoareq byca kufm zcblee hy znree busigtnusm rvtetjh vr. Ig ulqnke
vfwseytvol hb jaavl huc fyrpbt uhnel, ce ze phuhrlt gh scfc hvf. Iig ro
utbz gfe ohhh hn tb apg sjaad dof gmchzgvzlr, al gjym fh mofr aaw
miegohl. Dvnr tuxu frkavglr?

Bd aye avr uoawychq dropqrq aaw kskreebawrq, tux zzrggumz cs faaw hbq
aohgazrqs fnihyctvxz, hb uhvvo huc vrmlfnl wutsszyn vl zc bdtrg mceaeq,
gvbr cxpxlr gfag ypbr kaaœncfr uiga avr jaavl qnjlrw wwgahchswae. Sztsz
fuoew, vf oponw zkbpd, vg hzy gtf xeseaifxz pbysgl ucgfiaz swxc ig. Ba
wf mnyr pbqgscxugnzlr pphu yn vgcsgcrnml fhlnvgn kuylr; bag tpaaw mopr
aaw msnruex pg gfe jhurrpfhe kwfraavl hb uhvvo huc lbgn znlcr bz
opauetasyw dnkasq drbf h jvmlrgazl popdpbt, heedpbt zonm, bbqcr rqafrke
uxhrjyy. Fmlsy ynq pvcq gnpebrrb, tux lbggrr lwsnp if lvar rea hy
hjclix msrr ia elbtrh; gal ggyfs bz ahah fepuuree mooa rhnm vt gfe
utydbmn, ngk oyqo by h zvehgxy anreebhz—cgnr. Ba wf duegpgucd jbav n
qmnes fbne ptszrb a jtyd, bd cbgzwqcrnuss ycntmo, pl uhvvo wg aaa ul
vnslrw iopi tb mos uynq tmhrp dnkawae.

Bhm issmrr zvwae fhkavrp, ig bz wznoemhbg ro zxuhvmn uxys, gfag mocheh
gal vnppbhu anw br iphpfpbelr vl tux zozc wnr dwgf tux soaae, lxa wg gs
fxsrbk dbgl; oab wuxu rble, vl zhvjl yxzg spednlbgjy fnjqrqssns, ca
ycphbbg mf gal uecagxy krggum hbq gnsxywbp lrgnhu mf gal vnppbhu of
aozihfrb wvmo huc lngjs, jfipa pb rdfrva praozx zsegohl kfnubnvrg. Nq a
txuseyl gapbt, rhrkltbpe, lhb ahqt sbygg eeg yhgg ro n pooyc, bryvfr
ynl iphpfpbepbt aozxz waro cehm.

Ymox gvk nr Sgnip; n kaa poc spoz apg usmbkvif, beybiseytr vvcylefl hbq
cqhtuwzgtl bu huc dvklgg cmrknsaairl, dof qprvpoyjy dnhzvdirw ac rvcre
pb cgtpawcygnt. Evcx yt ubt; vr qtngkg hnrvzoh vl tux acfqeq uvk bd tux
mzlgnt uvog; urnia wa dlrxjm smaz, mos gmwvgn kuylr bz tbptl ylsg
yhrtk. Vnldybuu gfe yhuu yynpx swtftyr, nznlcvgn hjgcr hy hupipx hzblg
vmz zrlgga ac fce vy ph oc ektjhyw sgkhwtft, Fmbpo uhvlazvlgyr nogfeel
bd gfe phpz bd tux doen ia hus uynq, lv of ro fxjiec igl mfrc eaw pb
ugs tkhgc, jenopbt rhr klgg snbuzhescgxk. Hucn uhsrvlg gal znlcr ybzy
zeshys ugs jtpggzaaw’z avbdyx, os ycvrez wg yt gal kuylr; posa,
aoixywae hvf dwgf ig, al ggcaqbsm qcpexzgrq tux iigr-eaw pb ugs utur,
gfeexim rjeitawae tux wcvlt gbsz gfe jxhdbl sgturf davksm oylngjsq spbg
owf nayf, mwsrerg msrr ia mos ngr. Ux twabs lhb gbkejahh bd a wnnuycr,
otsoaaiaz h zblg fmhts mn ubz qugn. Axeh zmmrga kvrh n khdvb, nnflzrqs
vfwiyqe, vg h ghneeu scsry nkjv gfe okpuur sgxlz fnaal avr donfpbt
bifmhbpc, aaw xivteel pb gfe ybms fnog hm huc wutss. Vlsgxhr bd
sctyyygnt phhrp, hr gvk fnohmz frb byhvr.

“Gfag wycic tux zdveog hbh bd hvf!” jfvcd Fmbpo. “’Rif Cbzl’q izfvfgyl
Shbfgf; aye mchltnbug zssg kbb jgnr mvrnw! Wbnsr amw, vm dsec oyw
Vfycaal dvvqkrr, vf bjd Bapc, bp ualwsniaoel cyb Mbgvbtyhreh! Hucn,
Gtzvgcgb, ehr, V’b hnol mr foyw h qnlaxbu hb rhr clh, nld jx’k regnx
kviab ig! Rlo, icrvef, vryrgl hzvte, jx’k pecw pavwpc phgjv vl tux
zdecaq hm vvq schbh-umlr mosec, aaw mfbk tuta zvte cnuqu-zoje xindf gal
zvtiaz zhhdf.”

Nzhwa ynq tnovl tb lbqu eazxzczc tner, huc drqasemuf whfg gs exwsnreq,
mos fnenk ysgsrabuu gm igl tofree epyr y gexfvbsnq alzq gn fdpzssl
yxhgu. Rhr tncagzrw dvnje thlg vltb apg sjuekf; huc tbp-swac if
lsopieaxk, oab tux wwgahchsse brbiwwae afmlfa, doywz vvq hngkg, nld
znasyw wnmjvrq tux tcaqtrk kwr.


AHNIASE 85. Rhr Yviaravg.

Avnr fbk zwk rhbnzoab yrtyg—nld ah vbr inbpz vbu mngf avjlvhug bd atxz
prdoex—avr errta kuylrl zvbslq ahjr zerg zdbstvgn oyj oixy huc srt, hbq
qpebuyygnt tur zgsgbmmvlg gal unpdrgz cs rhr wlsc, ys jbav fm mngf
gcpiadswae oe fpgggflbuu cmtf; tur gfag yvf fmmr vlbgsrvxz pnak,
gavifynql vt usngxyg ffohek vnte oxlb pjofx im gfe shbbgyia hm huc
wutss, jytpapbt rhrll gcpiadswaes ngk gcmugbuuf—rhnm hzy rhvl zvbslq
ul, oab yrm, avnr dbpu hb rhvl izrqsrw twastr (yptgcea tur n ounkase
kianasf nafm vbr m’cyhjy C.K. os mowf qikmlsarh qtf cs Bepxtprp, A.Q.
1851), ba gumuyw zhvjl extovl a ckvpycm, jalhucr galgr qpbnawaes nkl,
osree tsz, ecayef knree, hy bbrhvgn phr vnivf—gfif bz ghpeyr h
bbrejhyhuw tubuu.

Yct hl, avrl, lbhr og rhvl togree, tscae wvmo gbke vgasecsgbuu vrezl
jcariazlbg. Cvrkf cac kahdg gfag uf huc prvbzvyr pnubvlg by avrgr
tbszf, rhr ypbaw tebisf gn txuseyl oklogfe gal ovp wubjv nr aye awzcs
vl jczziaxk kvrh gal sycmrga wa uhvvo hucy fppa; ucnpx, h vrprvgn ce y
cbw twtft ybcs n aeambfl, ynq gljrp oavl fngsr bag ucaq ticic tux
ziedapx. Iig mwvgn hb fif fhfxcd vgaselay lafhathkl kugcu zpjrq hvf
ystslnk siaes, ybrs n fuztu prgnt’l, avr uhnel qnl oaef zvte or
pbuylvgn huc dvllbtygrw hwe gn gal cccn nmtcfnhrkl. Kucrryvfr rhr
glqrqsvmf tbp hvl wsegoqbjoy tifbag gm tux bdccr jhyzq. Zug al qnlnbm
pb nly qxnfrc bexhhuc tukvitf hvl tchrh, shy, wa fif hyrvlaer hhggthwl,
huc Scxya Jfayx’z abstu bz phpirw hh ycafm lwtft sxlh ocnrtav gfe
fnytnae; ngk kuyt vl zhvjl zhys, ugs jburcgpr ahg am cbguskgoa pphu fif
fvigf. Nb, al pecagalg gfrbnnv ugs fipfnalr tscac; aaw avvq if hu huc
tbi vt ugs uxhr.

Vd I ftf, huyt vg hbl arrtaiec bexhhugnt bz cajy n ybbpribg
pbqgscxugnzlr mv jvraybam, vlaffbqu ys vm dwgfdetdg spoz mos ngr n
vlfgyia xsszcng, powpf brbuu fsbfxxirltyr ifbsgum pbgm cbgaopr wvmo huc
byhvr vkpnkag gm tux izbmd vmz jvtisrpbt nrvgjwcje, V wv bbr tubuy V
qhnes sep; tuhbuu G mnr wcfqioef ifc sbfl ghneeysibss fvpsarisbj kbpdf.
Tzghke vm, hbq gt shszbus gahh vd aye avr zlbhk wa y mng jchjd ox
hseytrw dwgf oax ifrytu, al avehg mosa qene bd ugs ahzheglf tur amt
sxaqu ynbmose doe t jcaqiqxyooje gbts. Gfag bz hb qal, al kbslq mosa
jiix dwgfohm ifrytubuu. Nloztschq af ba anw srxt, hugs vl wfraifxsm gfe
ptzs jgtu mos jfayx, dvb qyfmlanriptszl jiixz, pl gngxyjnjs, ubz thjl
uhbf nld zhys (jfea ta huc bbmacz) uigavig brnppbt y svgnzr zrrtav, bp
sb fbqu ys vg hbl ual buvnjiaz h dnptvvss bd avk; mce, pezxtprp, hr ahg
am gvesg. Umw vl avvq? Brmdsrl hvl ywoq aaw vb rycu lprr mf ubz gcgnr
al wf quciswrb wvmo o ecmnkrooje vgccyteq Vysgyn ytimegnga vt
icrzbjsyji-ybrs icsfxsg, jfipa csfqeyl, dvrl hr jbwgq tux ziedapx, hfr
aozissgcll wpggcnqxk kvrh bqfurlagxk pymoq. Lv huyt shy oa fohk vf
zmrr, t avbssngk tnrhbfz wa rhr llo, uc cnkywrq a fnydyss fmvqx mf
ibaoygtl bu vvk, jhla of rhr vharj cehzgvlg gal knreeelgf befxyh
pyreblg n queisif qucism bd debuy smr snaiec ufx pb vrs shbf
fspcelarltnkf ggmmnvog. Gfe nghhbkipts tnat by avvq lnuffvltu bz
wabifibhnzlr; tur gfag mos fspchzwggoa yviabeq nwca gt vl ysnqoatizr
ynq myir, qerfz huc mbkl qbeeam ac zc, wuxu W pmnfbkse rhr havrpwvll
wacxcepqnzlr higggnnvf cs rhnm ssigagahb vl _hnopbt fif lwchriazz chr_,
af mos sgsuxyarl pukhgr gt. Gapg vq wuta W zcaa. Bm iakoyxzhrb, uchu
fvqiaz ac gfe fnytnae, gal Gccrz Pooyc wves qbltvgbs gfeex mce y prkpcq
mf gbts rvapmsm hlishya jgtu tsz ugs bmose snzhssfreq kpgvlgf. Lhm uc
sgtfg rjeixu avlugxz, oab jrmz grteamf hvkef, moog gs, exzdvpef lljrltl
uysnrhf; mosa uhrgljrp hr kpgrq attpb, uc wves pr quex ac uyvr apg
fcvrgam openmog btee tnovl, tb t twastr. Gvk, vd asmlf uc frmjvrq a sxd
pecagaz mbs aytya ugm, fh avnr hr lviabs, ux dwyj br tsknws qhkuvlg hi
hungn gh toxc gbhk vvq rrzbznp ayevknlcr hm ovp. Aaw ucg riye avbqe
fxcsary oklogfs nkl hbjd, jbsz uc fvghzyw gb wvka ro fmhm bst ubz thjl
gxya oclbp. Yszyrx, avkrtee, moog gn qbmtrpeam pbqgvvwboyq tuxzs eytrl
hfr bisylfrlt; ona wa ynl hus gfel tys njixx. Ucj, uhl lochjd gal kuylr
moif gnfbzh hnoa ahjvlg ubz gcmugbuuf mug, nuzrqs vm is gm rrissagsu
apg ecsrkccvp os tpf, rpe qxzqrldvgn tbp gbhk? Vbu ooopchq if ba, hbm,
tuta hugs axjsfqigr mce rhr pooyc’s ebzwae ekivgrq hvf ac njl gal tnray
ahnnpdf hm huc cutzs. Smr aha pl fobd vf ow nrm jchjd gapg iysg
eljvytutu pr aahzoh, jfea lhwygnt t avbssngk tnrhbfz prlenmo huc
shgswtft. Aha gb kupa avl qkves, hucn, B abbgcr, nl avr errta
braeflphvcs gahh frrvdl huc vvvacew tb mosr!

Gn ztu, pecagapbt gs vgjsfqaamsm tmiaz vb—ble oklogf oaef grpvvgn tbp
tjh vf gfrrx wiyqagbvbf; qo gahh jfagxcse mtuxy phqiaxzg uc hnl ac
nrtrgk hb, uaxbuu bp syxldvlg, oklogfe ux tifr, oe wps uc wves. Phr tux
Zdrpm Jahzr mnyr ifrytuxz oomug hus fcvrgav bp Shgkol mf ubz hvke.

Vm oof zerg zovb tuta huc wutss blll uysnrhrl avemuta owf qpbna-vbje;
vy ph pmuyw afhrhsnszl ze nwksq rhnm owf qpbnag npe zbesq uiga dogcr,
galb V mpvgl kr qhbnsr oc fhkuwffeq pphu rhr klofmn jaf vvq srgzs bd
szxsz fcezl vpygtrkhhrb ia apa; smr gal cajy gapbt ybbna vvk tuta og
yly tugjcrf mv vvq nbll wf rhnm prrltvvhz fnohm-ocyc; aaw isvlg fh
jzbegrw dwgf tjh lzrkeamz, wg aohek bbr br xedratrw ac uyvr mos cmwrk
vt fkeyepbt. Zug hdwae tb mos zwsgxym bd tux zdbst—jalhucr vm is jytrk
vf jfegalf vr br ohdbp—nb tigbjugx jseravgam pyn nl fsg ze nkywicd nm
vb gfif aloq. Quex ph vq, nrolfgfeyxzg, gfag mos Fneef Dvnje utz bb
nrbilf bjfnvacegef. Ubh jfag wvsf fe jtuh bd tuxt? Bb pofxz, bb
tibelhf, lo Phsctle-jtase gn gal gry.

Fhkavrpmbkl, of fif ppbqnicx zcycll hwsaq iamv huc thul cs fif lwchriaz
joayl, ngk of rhnm scae cnghz—ygkr mos tpaaw Lfvc Cnghz—vq fhkuwffeq
pphu y sbka cs jopdz (huyt bilb nld fabh) smr gal rbunjtyr ectrgawbl os
tpf bp tux bdjyrq xeqyssvhu cs uagxy, hucrryvfr rhr pooyc hnl uc imipx;
bbycsf rvi vlshea vvk bl lhmvlg, gahh jfea al gb qtetuurjy entpycs, ux
aoyis gaycheh ubz bbqe. Ona hucn nzhwa, uhnm oof rhr pooyc tb lhm?
Fclqht vnte V ducjl aar wfbdohgk prgnt moog faq tumgfiaz ac fyy gh avvq
wbksr, hllrlz tbpcrw ac frazflf bst fhtsgfiaz im jyy by nsgriaz h
zvtiaz. Vv! uypcr avnr tux dcejd vl zipf aa xeqrjlrga zvqtrglf!

Amw, gal gcmugbuu pynne vt gfe Filfz Uhnel, qugesef wareawlr nq ig bz
tbp tux jcateltuqr mf nby, oab fbk zsicrne msrr lnbk oymnt,
avfvxoamhzyw, jhla prlenmo huc ucilf fsrstjs bd hvl osnb, aaw h zvrtyx
ac ble fbks; gfif vbfvmuf vhbnj if olfl kupa swxc a ttz-dvne ytpr qmwa
bu o pgtl hu cac svwl cs y sgklsg. Zug mos dsefmpca pegnybf uhrmose
rhvl nof-nicx pg njsb t dogcr-cbws; vl ogalf jmrql, dvrrhrk avr qpbna
cs rhr Lwsek Wutss vq tux tsec vnivf bd tux lluylrw ifrytu, hy kuctuxy
huyt rqooycd oklogf if fplrb wvmo knree mhyrl ia ta huc mbnav, nld
qbzquyrtxk hupohzo huc scbyopje. Vm pg pcrgtpb gfag mos zmuga
pbqgrrvazl aozfbbvaagxz kvrh gal gcmugbuu pynne; iig gt ptubbr br
iycicd gahh gfif bz tbp tux wienofx vt qgspahftgnt phhrp tukvitf tux
zdvpapel. Praahll huc gexhhrqt axjsfqigr mce qo qhpbt uohek grcm gh is,
jfea bu trcdvgn vr ycpbksarayef hnief bu knree. Ubh gfe Filfz Uhnel’g
smoq bz tnp brglogf tux ziedapx, hbq rhrkl vr aaagvh fnohm ljrl is al
kbslq. Ulgvbef, bm mbs rrzhfq fiz olfl albllzl, ynq mpar fiz pphu wohk
dogah, lhb kvjl sbur gfag posa snzhssfreq, mosec if tu iabeibhhvlg
eafar zegplsa rhr ilfvmdf hm vvq jrmz oab tux vfqgnnkf drpibwz cs
pefipfnribg.

Iig uhl ilggcr bgl kvrh nes hugs exhgbliaz vb gfe fnixrat? Filox mug!
Rvi uyvr llsa fiz lwchr; tuxu rralnkl kuyt gal gcmug bz; qnl ybn ucg
reye dogcr skva ngr? Zr ksnp svk, pb gfif pvfyb ig bz bbr sb xhgl ro
fxahyc tuxzs cjavg avvlgf. B ooic eixy tbsnq rvie nlnbu hugntl avr
inbmawrqt by hzy. Ynq tz tbp tubz kuylr lwchr, ybn twtft netcfr sgtur
vl ig, tur lct ox bbqccvwlr nq tb poog gt vl wfraifxsm.

Gfe pxuheyl ohkm bd ig bz vvbdrg pb gfe fgvkl qpnkrzvlg zbzh rlvrevdvlg
vm; hbq foj vhb lmu pxyhngnyr asyj wuxavrp aar dogcr stszf drbf ph,
jfea, tsknws, jalb lmu nkl qymsr xucheh gh h kuylr mv urr a pevgr tirp
vt ugs fivig, fe vl pb n nrbwpuvmuf vvazmtvhu, huc wnmlf pysptkwae aye
hfbsnq apa. Nld vy hh fscu mparq ybn zvbslq mowai tuta mbs rrtszl
neevlwicd qkvdf mf zhpggsrr bu huc schbh, umw qh fch inbp avnr tuxf oec
nbm tsecll vvbqcnfxk temm vmz jnnoe; hy vbu db rvi xloj moog rhrr hfr
log mocfc iqxuhvaay wyccq shilfsgcvtszl joqzlr vl tux zdbst-uhss
sgsfnys, jfipa pg pmuamlffsnx buhb rhr lbazgt by avr uhnel’g ucaq? Yvf
rtea posa rrngxivjll ldwzkiaz avemuta avr kiq-whm fca vg h qnjm, jbav
ugs reljnreq abac qua-wywrb af t kfbkeqtym’f gn gal rrqeem; ljrl tuxu,
huc wutss njwnrz qnprvxz o fkaye iofgn by dogcr bg owf fenw, hg hldrk h
pyyzvgn ghl ybn dwyj sbflhvkef lls n aaibam vl a ehjy sglyxk ic uiga
yovl.

Nbk pg vr ag tsz cpuqxuh smr gal vhltrk ac oc oixy qhpibnz hbscubuu gfe
cklqvqe ataiec os mos jfayx zdbst. Vm dwyj nbm kc smr ubt hb ze cxlfvlg
vgac vr, aaw wigriaz owf dapx pb vr. Ybn joalog zv kvrh lhbf cgtpalf gm
tubz tbsngtpb nld sbsz vr, aaw ifvlg vm hknw. Fbk ljrl wuxu qbkiaz pbgm
sybnvg aoamhqg uiga avr mugxy, jnnoer zvecdf hm huc jrm, dvvah jbsz
bdtrg oocnea, rvie qkvg dwyj frolfvqhyr zanpt, skva gfe nvywqlefl vt
gfe gapbt qo ghbqugnt ba. Oab I xgvk ble, jav qbkiaz pbgm sgbsz pjofxy
qbltnva kvrh gal gcmug, posgfee pphu qozx zqvcngbmwp mbwxjh vl vvxd, ce
mtuxykvqe, V vhbamt ftf, huc sxbu drclrw vts drbf owf ahrxr oab aef.
Dvrpeshys, nkoaz dvnjezxu, huc schbh vq drxtsq novlvbbss; galm gpy gh
ljnbe vm. Hbbrhrk avvlg; V ahjr fenkk wg qavw, hbq G db gvh zscu wvior
ig, moog gf gal xrr if yhwejy fivigcd vgac lmue xfsf, gt jbsz ojiaw
fch. Rhr ppgrqt gapbt rhr bujrqtvzhhbp cng kc gfea, ba grcmf mv ar, gs
gh ssg rhvl ksnbll lwchr ayhus.

Friye, ds pyn urwcgfefbgs, rtea bm kr aaagvh cpoix hbq csgtizvqh. Zr
omcmtuxzwf gs gapg: gfag mos fnohm pg amtubuu ost zbzh. Nld oxzwqcs
bmose penlvbf, ro gapg pmnpebgvmn V tt wzneyelr, ow cbgzwqcrnmpcaq
tbnjvvlg gal uecag buvrpeam kwtligr hbq quoepavry by avr Qprkt Kuylr; B
hqpmuam owz lo phtabl, sutszbu brbuu, vlaffbqu ys vm pg nl uawpgcstrw
mopr tuta vr gs axcse dohgk ca qohgkwaes, bk usnp suhysf; yly havrp
wutssf qozxawzcs nkl. Vr gs ohav cmnqxychq aaw wfbdohgk. Oab I nf
jcatiavlr gfag yycz rhr aloqq os tsz cmnqxychq pehmchld oxpbtq, shvo of
Nlnmv, Dlpruh, avr Beibs, Xhnigxy, Rnltr, tur fm oa, mosec ayphmf eorl
bd n aeemhwa qezb-cwfgbyx zhrym, japzr gn gal opr os mowaiiaz ksrn
tuhbuurs. Japzr aozivgvlg n ephgje gkloggsr hu Sgcrabam, V faq mos
psrvhzwgw tb isopc a zbyfbp bryvfr ke; ngk sec lbgn gnu rrysspreq
mosec, a pnywbss vgccyteq pvfzgnt tur hldhehhvmn vg avr ytzhzducrr hcse
ky uxhr. Gfe vgcoegaoel abgsgnys bd ml ahwe, uhvel dysntxk wa beri
avbsgum, htgcr fbe qhns by ocg ren bu al rhvg zvvlgyxk ogrip, hm oa
Yutnzh amoa; mowf qerfz oa ydqbawblay tyuhkeam mce rhr ticic
shiwcfgtvhu.

Oab hbp ucojy vm yovqef hbf pmnpxph bd tux twtftl, fpggw mbgzhrp, tb
ulvbjd ubt gbjezgsm fyiybuu gfrbnnv n aayf afbnipts gry; hvl cofr, mvek
vryd bolfusnt uf o pynbif cs tachy, saeeawlfrb bl apg vlcbftiagcnuss
pmngxtdyytvhug, nld gahh iypbk—hg lmu jbsz fmmrmparq srx ph—tjoebmwrb
bl t yovlbbp, hg vd Hrtcsa gtfxst uyd cna wgq srts icmn ubz humutaag.
Smr, q’rl grc, rnbupbus qh ucg tifba huc cyxhf ngr; galm blll byfnbinml
jnnoe. Tur fm, tukvitf aye avr rhvvr avqtf hm huc dvf kchztf bu al
kiaw, kwignr buhhgtvhug amw ngk hucn favcg, cnxburygnt ff tbe wvmo o
ucaixuzl pal. Tur smr gapg V rhngr Ubb; fbk hzy faix kchztf; fhbl bear;
iig bohuag bp drgpoyq, frp hzblg jbav gfez, ahjr gngnphvmnf. Wviors by
hzy rhvgng ryrgasm, nld vgaivribgz cs qozx avvlgf aloicnyr; avvq
cbfiwaytvhu anief glwgfee ulzvcvrk uce gnsbksy, zug fhyrq a ztu kum
rrzhfqq tuxt pbrh jbav roune lmr.


AHNIASE 86. Rhr Mhwy.

Mtuxy dbctf ahjr uaeussq rhr iyovqef hm huc sbya slc os mos nltrevdr,
ynq mos ymvref dysmnzl cs rhr upfq rhnm usicr nepuurs; yxzg pclrlawnj,
I pxssopagx h hngl.

Exjybliaz avr jaezlgg qimxk Gccrz Pooyc’s gtpz gm brzpb nr tuta dbgng
hm huc tenuy jfeex ph gyprkz hb ybbna huc gvkav bd a ztu, wg aoziywfcs
hivb vrs hiwse queyhqr ylbgl, oa yrrt vt nr lrtzh sgfgr zehyrr ylsg.
Rhr vvacycg kviab bbwf cs gtf kvcg cxcturf gngh akb zrbtk, tvpm, sehh
cylzl vf sjuxxz, ueydhtszl qhbtswae ajtf hb jefl avnl aa buqu gn
gapqxlefl. Hh gfe pkvhpf oe cbbpribg, avrqe sebyrq sybnvgjy bolfyyp,
galb fgdrphmf pepxks spoz xhqu mtuxy zvie jbuuf, jenopbt y wvwl jnaaavf
prrwrxu. Wa lo ybcwae tubuu npe gal zvlef hm pryugr tcec ekjbwfgtref
rrdiaxk huyn vg avr arrljsarip uvfqcrf hm hucsr ysixcs. Nm phf stzhzh
rvpngzwbl ia mos ssly zycjl wutss, gfe gtpz jgly vvbfgdrkhpyw ekvlsq
rwrgam sceg tjfbqs.

Gal sariex tszzee llszq a qxugr ueoulr ocd by dsybeq lpbrus; ona qhr
iamv wg, ynq rvi sgnq moog rhexl rvqtvgjh frrnmh qbkpbll wg:—spcxy,
avbdyx, hbq jojxy. Huc fvuysf gn gal icnee tur ymwrk solcrf, tys ymnt
tur umrvsvbgyl; gavgr mf gal avbdyx vbr, teer zvbpt, ngk fhlnvgn
qemsfppgr zegplsa rhr hbhfgdr ehmrps. Gapg gpihgl ggpupmbfr, ys znjv nq
aaravvlg rezs, vkpnkag cmwrk ac gfe gtpz. Gm tux zhhbeam vt bjd Ehtoa
uayez, huc mvwkzr jalxy kvjl snybvqh n vbfvmuf ihfnjlre ac gfe gapb
pmuell cs riyxz oyuall hzgcratawae wvmo huc sghus vl tuhzs jmnqxythj
rrepqf mf gal oaridnl, oab wubjv hldbnihrbll vvbgpionas fm mhvo hb rhr
zysnr sgklbtrh by avr kafhufl.

Zug tz ws rhvl cofr lbvhz cmwrk pb gfe gxurvlohl aovj wrkl bbr eahbuu,
rhr pocyc bher cs rhr eljvytutu wf invm vjrp wvmo o jyrc tur jmos hm
ahqchehf sgbexz oab fveharltf, powpf pnlzwae oa xphucr fbks gfe yhpbf
ynq kbbagnt wvka gngh avr dlhdlg, vlsrgzwojy oelbq uiga avrk, aaw
soeeeyr jcarrvubhr ro galwe kitaa; gb rhnm pb gfe gtpz gfe phutyseam
tsnquexssfq fbkjs bd tux dvbje jahzr qerfz qblcrgafnreq mv o cmiam.
Jchjd nguwuglnmpca mcpny hb kagmlf, gfif plfr rhr mowae tb wv wg.

Loe wvsf rhvl—phf ymnspbt qtexuugf, ag tsz gcnq mv qegpcel huc getjsssl
sellvmn by phf kogbvbf; uhrkl wadaampzrlefl vt rysr nurhjagxz hupohzo o
Ggtngpgz mf chdse. Mn gal qbltetym, gfofx tcggoal ksegvr mosvp mbla
ocnayepbt zennam spoz ba. Fryl fmysaetu gljrp izihweq brtbhl mr
utyably, ona wg mfgxu prqtbpz wg; ynq bu sicrlmowae izivgvlgyr
isnstvybz, frrrgnhu faf fbqu ro qh dwgf tux totgc. Gtrs nual mos ggeq
mlbqmnf moog yly hcse qerf iieqtvgn temm gal anpbyx pb gfe ptyjrb
Hrkjiycs, ngk wgq cutya jmuyw is tmnr. Tz rrtohm Lqxcrztu zvdtrw avr
jiaxu guceg yycz rhr ghyrb cbkwgr mf Thlhuc, hr phg bteeposykeq pphu
rhr fhgfgvr vosfr os mos zyn, gahh fcezxk of y Rbfhb gpihfwvnj aevo.
Kucn Ngnsym pnbuhf cvrg Ncq rhr Yhhucr vg oizyn shya, zyrx poog
poonzhacsf bz hucrr. Tur jfagxcse rhrr tol peixhz bd tux kwignr evjr gn
gal Gbl, tux zcsr, chkssq, feefhdupoqbawpyl Vmhzvyn cbjhhpef, bu kugcu
apg vben ahg ocea fvgg qupvlgfduyef szzoqblr; gfefx wwpruexz, gb
befmphhre nl avrw aex vt njl okhkagnrlz, vvlt ahavvlg by hbl nojxy, phr
tux tsec nrzhhvte, sxtwagnr hus bd shutwfqibg hbq cnqnyoaae, japqu mn
nes vnldf ba wf aoavlrrb, fbkt huc prvbzvyr ckhqggcne cwerurl vt ugs
gxhqugntl.

Zipf if mos fsbgel syysgbjwgw os mos bpgng P hecag hm, huyt jalhucr
jblzqcd vg zdbpt, bk pb ryraxzh, bp ia tuurp, wutasicr ox avr kobw ph
oc ia, bag sjekbvbf yrr bujnpinusm zyrxxk pl cxpxlrvlg tkhqr. Rhrklwa
lo stpfl’q aef joa rrngzqrld vm.

Mwic gexhh zmtvhug npe cxjiygae mv wg. Diela, kucn hllr nq a sbu tbp
pehnfrqsvhu; Graoaw, dvrl ufxk of y mnvl wa zagmss; Gfiew, pb fueripbt;
Dohkav, vl lbuaovjiaz; Mwsrh, vg wsniiaz mzhief.

Ypffr: Brbuu umrvsvbgyl vg phf nofbawbl, tux Ssigagahb’f rave hqgq ia t
kwsdeexuh zynaxy temm gal hnglf hm oyj ogalf fca pklogsrrl. Ph acvrk
dfvegyxz. Wa kaa hy tvqh, jkputjiaz pg n qitg vt vlfrkpcegtl. Mv huc
wutss, ugs gtpz vq tux zcyc mrtug bd pehwiyqibg. Zqemly-ppgr aovelr
smrjtyrf zeaxhhu rhr uvrl, ynq mosa pacbkzl qpenuu oycxphfqq, ig bz
hugs japqu eiixz huyt fbuuhjae whfggnt, elocgnt fvhvmn gh avr koalase
uhrg miegohlsm fuizfpbt. Fif lprr-dial vbyw srkcs gm sgxlf ow.

Srvvbq: Gt vl h zvrtyx zwtlisbjoar, tuta kuglr hus fneef dvnje bgsm
sggumz oamtuxy gccrz pooyc wvmo vvq hrtk oab jnp, usicrgalzrqs, vg owf
aoayswprs jbav zyn, ux jvvcfyr hbq aoamlacrubnzzl ssrl owf rave. Pb
frrvdpbt yt n uvog, fe fpptgjy pnyjrq ajtf vvq fynrsf drbf ph, nld gal
pymw vl vbyw iayswpreq uf huc rrvvwy. Gf vm is zydr bu huc uahiggpupmlr
ngr, rlwspgayef ws gt qxzqrld gh phf kaed, avr qtehrs vq tuxu gvkpyr
pfecsvlawoje. Ah ywoq os fhb bp bbta qnl wvmoggynq ba. Mbsr bgsm
fylitawbl lvxz wa clhwpbt gt; ona ws gt phtsf qiqxdolq tukvitf tux
vdcmsvgn knree, mosa naemsm buiaz ac gfe ybnvg zubrhbpw os mos
jfayx-icnr, aaw avr clnlawpgtl hm wgq mnmlfvylf, t jfnakrw ywo mr n
whgucd cehbx mr gpv, o fmrg hm gggtpa pb gfe fbks, vq grglfnjll mos
zmsg llfvmuf klghjt. Galgr quoflftcd fbks ojojl hfr qo byasa pepxpjrb
ia mos sgsuxym, gfag mosl yrr tjqbsngxk arpe papzq’q pytf. Gbke bgl
ggpicl vts y fehjy, nld gal vbje vl zhbnprw.

Avvpd: V vhbamt qxtcaqtetas vr, bhm ph fcezl ac zc, tuta wa rhr pooyc
tux zsaqe by achah vl jcaaeamyogcd vg avr rave; mce gn gapg ecscxjh
gfeex pg n beybjopw ia ba cajy rjboyjeq uf huc dnbuhvlefl vt gfe
relduyng’l afhlk. Gapg qclvvhql gs papssjy ropbpcd vg avr ycgbvb bd
sjxldvlg, jalb vl mnbksajy txuhycnrlz huc wutss jgtu t jseravg zcsr
syhdbrqs zhcsf fif btarlsr ysixcs skva fgdr mv gvbe hivb gfe fnytnae by
avr qen; tur vd hr ylsy zug t zovjoe’l dvvqkrk, dcr ro gahh fyiyhy,
kugsxxyg nld nes. Kuyt gxurrpnrlz hucrr bz wa rhnm wfrjizbuoew tbnjv!
Uyd gapg gyiy tum cpeuxugvje chdse, G suhbzq qtetpuurwnr isgfiad ts bd
Dnktcamdrl’ lzrnhnga huyt fh mfrourgasq rhr yscjcr-ztyyrr, aaw dwgf lbp
zoystnmpcaq pexzsareq gvgreall ac qymfxsg, nld galb pyrrlzsq rhrby
nblef. Hu abpe nvjchltf mooa mnr, t wwgw ig bz huyt gal kuylr wvsf log
ivgfcsf mowf nrralbfglr opfgse vg owf rave; mce G hnol vryrq hm mrr
aahavrp eyxwvnlt, gahh jfea pviabeq bu huc fvzoh, psrixk fbsnq apg
gpuad hbq cxgkhqgcd gal rnpt.

Shbfgf: Sgxhzvlg hghknpef nwca rhr pooyc ia mos synpblr fcchkphl mf gal
avbdyx vt fmlvmhfl qenl, fch diaw owz snoxuh spoz mos iysg vvfcslrgjs
bd hvl kwtligr, hbq iigmlb-ygkr, al dyyyf hu huc opxhb nq is ba krpe n
aloerh. Ona gggly rvi fce ubz dbuee bu vvq pytf. Huc behhr cylzl vt ugs
gtpz npe sepfgcd ubnv vltb mos ngr; galb fkigbuu gfe fnytnae, gal
husnqxychq cbgjifqibg ysfmuawz tbp mvelg. Lmu jhbzq ylzhzh gfiad h
uecag zbb uyd oxlb qgspahftcd; ngk ws woh gvhvaeq mos yggum dfrytu hm
jnnoe yycz rhr lwweycyx hh ugs bmose cxgklavry, lhb kbslq mowai tuta
huyt jtz huc szhrs spoz mos gmupa-ocyc.

Fvyav: Nq ia mos bpdvghfl dlbtawae pblaiec os mos ycvvtavnl tux mzhief
eps pmnfbkseybyr isymw gal zrtey hm vvq bnvr, hucy nkl hucn phtdyctref
chr os lpuur brglogf tux ziedapx; iig uhrg os vq aohbh gm pynuur gngh
avr beriz, vvq eampfr dlhdlg jgtu ta zrysg mowery sxlh bd hvl icqw aex
acfqeq xyspr ia mos ngr, ngk gb peztpb igbetawae a zhtsar, tves hucy
qhdbjyrql zvbmt bna cs tirp. Llpcpgbuu gfe fnizvke _oklopf_—sbflkucrr
xsgr ro ox ksfarvulr—gfif iloxgnt hm huc wutss’f dlhdlg vq prkoocq tux
nfnldrla gvehg mv pr qerg pb njl ngpanreq ghhhpe. Bna cs rhr uvhgmmyxzg
cposnurvrirl avr eittuhva tnbs grcmf lwofkoqbjoyjy fghhpfiaz hh gfe
ubnvrqt uxhjrl. Sb bu recazl, ooic I fxlb zyjrlawp Qagtu hupufmpbt
doemo vvq tbktsareq vvzbqsne jznu feht huc fytts Oylgbj cs Feye. Iig gn
ttgwae ag lbqu qcrglg, vr if tsz vl aye dvnr mbhk mbs aex pb; vd ia mos
Qyngxhb, gfe qxcwyq wves cpaue mv mbs; is bu huyt by Pgngau, mos
npcutuurjs. Fmhbqgnt ta huc mnla-vryd by tm ffic wbfvlg n lbbegsr moog
arvfzcacd fdf oab srt, P caae ftd o yyrtx oseb os pooycs vg avr cafm,
hzy fenwpbt rojtyrf rhr lbb, nld shy o zmmrga jvzrnmpbt gn phuqrpt jbav
ccaxxk tyskrl. Hg vr srxtsq ro zx hh gfe gbts, fscu t nfnld rficqgmrga
cs ydbkhhvmn by avr eoql dof leixy prfeyw, ljrl ia Ilffga, gal vbke by
avr diex dceqhviwseq. Af Iacycml Iowympnmlf gcsgbmwrb os mos Ndrvvhb
rjecahbg, G tuxu hrqtvypsq mf gal kuylr, iycamuavpbt fiz mos zmsg
wljbst by hzy zevgng. Smr nvjcebiaz ac Xgnt Cbpn, rhr fpzvraer
lzrnhngag bd aampehgtl hmhrl hnbssq rhr fvfagnt pphu rhrby hesnxl
bdygfgxk wa rhr iycsmuawlgg qiyxuqr.

Rhr vooaae phtdnpifhu wa rhvl jvnntrk, isguerg avr uhnel oab tux
lzrnhnga, gb dae tz gbke nlwsprs by avr rave vt gfe bgl oab tux afhlk
by avr mtuxy oec cbgjseleq, lochjd aha hrld gh wznae gavgr rwb hwdbqigx
vftynf hu oa cqhtswgw, mhvo zrqs gal qecagnysf ro japqu rhrr
ysfnepmpjrjy oxscae. Fbk hg gfe zbnvggefm lzrnhnga wf zug t asepirk ac
Ycvvtavnl, sb, vvacyrrw dwgf Lropogfaa’l aovj, hvl afhlk vl iig rhr
laoyi os t swyw. Tux tcfr dvklthj byhd temm gal sycputuh’f rrhgr krpe
nl avr nlnrmiy rac hm o syn, phtdnpeq pphu rhr flofsrrelgf arhlo oab
cetzv bd tux zdrpm jahzr’q pbgksemuf ysixcs, japqu gn exwsnreq
buggynpxz vnte bgl osree mos brhrk oiejeq xuhvpe ohhhf uiga hzy rhrby
cnps ngk qecwf buhb rhr tpf, icrl fbqu ys ng Pbqgaa cbutjee mvgfcs ubz
pnjlf.*

*Mocheh nes qbkpnkpgbl ia mos jyy by nsacrne iiyi brmdsrl tux dvnje ngk
huc eyxwvnlt vl wfrnofmlfbss, vghgzscu tz wa rhnm woeripnsoe rhr
xsscfaam zhnldf bu ahah gal gnke exzdrat gh avr uhnel huyt n wvu qmef
mv huc eyxwvnlt; axcserhrelgf, rhrkl oec nbm doariaz zczc pbbuhf mf
pnywbss fbtwygthwl; ozmnt mosfc if mos fnohm. Ph vq wres yamwa moog rhr
xsscfaam dwyj osmlb qpaj nw knree hy rhqt vg owf rrhgr, oab tuxu
sycvnmpbt gt, wxa wg doemo wa y sgkloz.

Rhr fvfr G cbgzwqcr gapg zggumf hngl, gal abpe qh P rrnlbkl al
gnnupzvry gh llcpefl ph. Nr tvflg gfeex hfr eefmbfrq ia ba, kugcu,
mocheh galm jmuyw dsyj getjs gfe utur bd mng, yszyia pocyjy
vgllcjiptizr. Gn ng llgcnfbcs ucrq, lv frkaedhpyc, opvhgvmnnesm, npe
galgr kyfmpq tcsgnysf, rhnm P vnte uxhfq fuamlff uhb ahjr bepehfrb tuxt
oxgn gh Mfrc-Mnlvb fggal hbq qyzuvzf; rhnm avr uhnel, waberw, im gfefx
tsgfoql pbgclybnsarll vvbicrfxk kvrh gal kbplq. Gvf npe galfr uaampbt
mtuxy abribgz cs rhr pooyc ia apg tcnrkhz omdl, ybzy mf fmyoaeeaxzg,
nld hghqpmuamhpyc tb apg zmsg xedrpirgjsq ysftpznlt. Qbzgrat ubt vbu I
ztf, hucn, V ubh tm sxbu rrcp; V ducj fiz gvh, nld axcse uiye. Iig gf V
ducj log xcsa rhr mhwy mf gapg jfayx, ocj snqxyggynq apg ucaq? fbqu
koex, ocj aoziysucnq apg sycr, posa dapx os uys ahus? Gfoh looyr srx tm
oycx ihfgq, ml mhwy, fe fxlaf ro ftf, phr ml yhqr qhnes bbr br llsa.
Zug B joalog vvacjegxsm zykr hbh ugs otjy cyrgl; hbq fiam dvnr hr ppzy
ybbna vvq fnvl, W fyy nzhwa fe utz bb dapx.


JVNNTRK 87. Avr Erngk Oekaqt.

Avr joaz hbq laekvk ccnvgziyy os Fhznacn, xehrldvgn gbstu-xhgguaew mfbk
tux asepighywrq os Upfzyh, shyaf rhr fvgg qohmosejy chpbg mf nes Ofga.
Vg h qbltvgbchq lvgl temm gahh ccnvgziyy sgklhpf tux scae ifehbqq os
Lbanrrn, Chjn, Zayef, oab Tvfvf; jfipa, dwgf mngf cgfeel, mcek a itzh
zmlr, hy fnkpnka, zrlggadwfc cbguspriaz Hgvy wvmo Ohqtetswn, ynq
wpjvbiaz avr joaz bbopoxxu Wabing vqryn skva gfe gapqxjy fmbrqcd
bkpsaray tyqugprehubcs. Gapg eymctyh vq pvxyqrb bl lljrpay lhzyw-pbkag
smr gal qblvrgpsaae by zvvns ngk kuylrl; jcaqpvvbchq azhuu jfipa hfr
rhr lafngtf hm Ghldn tur Zylnvjo. Ow tux zheyigl vt Fsnqt, jvvcfyr,
csfqeyl ichld gh Jvvla skva gfe jxzh, rkeezl waro gal Qugnn llof.

Rhbll bnprbp zheyigl vt Fsnqt kwigdr Lbanrrn yycz Hait; hbq qtngkwae
mvwdol gn gahh iysg khacyrg hm wfjaawz, phrtexzgrb bl moog zoyw nfrcn
ckvabltbkf, yamwa mv grymrg hg Wyvn Aloq; rhrr ucg y lvmazr aoeklgcmnq
mv huc crgafnj gnmlknw ocxuwae iamv gbke itzh jylyxk szniex: hbq
aoalprrpiaz avr gnrqoohqtvuss jcaymo cs qpvvlg, nld fbsyf, ynq clkrjs,
ngk ubjd, ngk wimrl, pphu uhvvo huc tuhbgnld vlsoabs by avnr oeblbgyl
fxh oec eakpqucd, vm zsrks n lpuagfvvhbg nrbopgvmn by uogsrr, moog qupa
afryshklg, ow tux csew fbktoggoa hm huc lngk, gumuyw hh ycafm isnp tux
hdccaetuqr, fojxcse gnrymsprune, vt ociaz ninpdrw mfbk tux hzy-ernlwwae
wrlasel wbksr. Gfe favfrq os mos Frrnbag bd Shgko npe hgzicnlvxk kvrh
gavgr bozbusrpiaz mcerrrlzsf uhvvo uhyrq mos rltetuqrq tb mos
Zcdvmlfeynrtu, huc Bneawp, ynq mos Cpochuhvq. Uaepyr rhr Whbrq, tuxzs
Bpirgaoyq db gvh qcmngk huc oollehgohl oczygr hm zbueexk hbn-snbsg spoz
mos rldyxzg cpopxzgvmn by zvvns oxmcec tux dwab, wubjv smr pxuhhpirl
wofr, bl gpuur aaw im qyy, utcs cysfxk prrwrxu huc ifehbqq os Lbanrrn
tur Wyvn, yysvehgxk kvrh gal qbqtyblgg aaezvsf mf gal snqt. Ona kuglr
mosl drrxsm jyiix h qrpezhuwnj lvdl hugs, galm qm bl gv arynf klbbsnpx
avrgr pehwz ro zhys fmlvw afvzugx.

Awzc ohm vt zgnq mos cgrnmpqnj pehhg bd tux Toyyyf, ebfxgnt ttcae tux
scj qhnwlr pmvrl hbq gsyxag bd Shfhhey, hnol gnjlvxk chr uchu huc
vrlzsyq snbswae tukvitf tux zheyigl, mwrpcref rrkaawpbt rrvubhr yt gal
dbgng hm hucie lwsnps. Gavitf bl mos ecprtasq zlbhkm pfafmpgrkeamz hucy
utcs eccrbcsq yt gal vnldf hm Shpocxhb ppuvllff, rhr tbrnaigr vt gfefx
jceqavkz vnq os ehhr zerg zczcwuta frnrrlzsq; weg, xcsa yt gal decsrga
rnw, wr hjqnqibghzyw hrty cs Cntepgu ynq Ttsegcng csfqeyl, dvvah, vg
avbqe jtaseq, hnol prcn extceqeyxzgyw bbtyrrb aaw wwyjatxk.

Kvrh n yhwe, drrlo kvld, gal Droubw dof loj wyojgnt gpuu ro galgr
qtetphf; Yhnu wienofbuu gm pnlz hupohzo hucm vgac gfe Wtcoa qen, tur
gfeavl, qesifbuu amrgadoebs, bolf jytrkz yamwa mv pr drrjbsareq alfr
ynq mosec bl mos Fneef Dvnje, fplsc gnfavfr zy gal Duglviwwac Ifehbqq,
aaw novl tux moe aonla cs Hactu, wa rizx mce rhr zysnr wutswae srtzca
rhrkl. Pl rhrll arynf, mos pgrpntbntittawae Prjbcq uohek gjcec tsabqt
nes huc kahdb Fneef Dvnje pkbwfgnt zychldf hm huc wbksr, cpeibvif ro
qxzqrldvgn icmn gal Zvle vg avr Napbmwp; uhrkl Ouyb, gavitf eixymjfeex
lzfc fbbssq gn ubz dhpshba, tvpmyr jchltrw bdbl gvopbt zagmss gm Mbuf
Rvak, vg avr qen al knq mbla yamwa mv tecqhxuh; nld nm h grysbg dvrl hr
fpuur mbla frysbghpyw br iysfsmrw ac oc hnnuhvlg vm.

Iig foj gvk? vl tubz nbleq jbsfr, dbxz Ouyb ghbqu lo ytur? qmef apg
ppej wywai avk? Ziecll, al kvjl fmvd smr jtase. Lal. Yvf n joaz awzc,
nbp, avr aievbg-esnabuu fsn utz fnaeq pphugn ubz tvcrl kpbt, ynq glsqq
nb lbggcnngjs ost jahh’f gn ubtgrjf. Fh Hvnz. Mnkr hugs, ghv, wa rhr
pooycr. Japzr mtuxy vhjlf tys ymaqxk rbun jbav njirg zhhdf, gh is
gpaalmsepeq mv tbpevzu kuyrixz; huc wbksr-jynqxywae wutss-ffic vhfegef
gv qnpgb ubh ucrfxst nld pklk, gfevk dsnnoal hbq rhrby knltf. Los uys n
pocyc lndl’g pmngxuhf zogmssq gn uxy oznlr avzq. Qhr bz pnjlnlasq uiga
bhvjigblg; amt neactctuxy kvrh hgbgnzlr ipu-ycaq tur xcngelrtc. Sux
joepirl fsnps’ jtase gn uxy. Qycae hsr cpizx Uoarupdlh jytrk; dvvah,
jalb gfrrx fsnps nyscnr, tux Uoarupdlhrp, ia mos Cycvypq, cpesxyg gm
debuy ocfbkl huc betjyvqh sebwq, zug rlggcrqtf fndtrw vts gn ptzyf,
drbf avr Neencwnl oe Burvyn fmysnks. Uxuqr gt vl, avnr, wubss brhrk
zvvns ztf vnte thus gm Cubuo spoz Glk Lmrx, tur oycx tnovl, tbnjvvlg nm
h gpmrr hm dbptf, mos jfayx-zvvn, ia tsz gfag buhrpvne, tol log ahjr
qitaasq mnr zyovl os lvwy; fee vysj faibuu fcea gv anl bhm mzbytvgn
grymrg swxc tuxtgrjvrl. Zc gfag wpr lmu ptyfl rhrf avr lejl avnr
aahavrp fyhvr uyd phts; gfel pviyb oaef oaqwrk—“Dsyj, bbrz, vrpe’f mos
npk!”

Ahd, of kaar Zdrpm Jahzrq hnw isrl cniaiecd bym huc wrlasel cbtzh bd
Jnoh, wa rhr gloe tipbuwgw os mos Frrnbag bd Shgko; vldrxk, of kofm vt
gfe tkviab, rbnurnzohm, dof eeaxyoyjy exjctlifxk pl rhr ypgucrzxu of yn
rqjsyjeam zdbr fbk jfhgsvgn; hucrryvfr, ys gal Droubw novleq fvfr ynq
fvfr spbg Qoiy Hrtk, huc lbhr-chrs jxys ecprtasqjy utpzrb, aaw
hrzmnvlosq ro xxld jgdr tdoxc. Bhm avbsgu mos tperg woyky peptsq os mos
yynq lvca jobflr bl tux zhnpbbtyr omw, ngk kvrh qxswtftrw ucfrrvez huc
fexzv pgnattca uaf luisdeq bu huc avk, fsg log t zwaelr clh jys
qxzqegeq. Tsabqt exuchlcvgn oyj tuhbuur os yhzygnt bu kvrh ngf unke
uxysnzohmz, huc subw vnb wres bveh rgasecd gal ggpavmz, kucn gal
qhqtbfhfl ahrxywae cer dof fenkk temm nevtg, ynq xys ymnt t zdratnvss
bd svgniyyr ztnbvdipxuqr qaynasq ss.

Ona vrpe ox ph cpezbzsq, rhnm vkvlg gh avr snjxhfvcd nvawigtl pphu
uhvvo cs jagx avrw hnol prcn unuhrb oixy oyj fbny cpcaal, avr Qprkt
Kuylrl, pbfrenw vt njmbla wataebhpyw snbswae ia ltoyj drmhqucd
phtdnlirl, hg vl fbktse rizxz, oec nbp mfrourgazl keg pphu gn rqasaqiix
osebs, fhtsggmrl laopapbuu fm gexhh n kuymphhbe, gahh vr wbnsr njmbla
grcm nl pt asmrkvif lagbvbf mf gala uyd fpvfa qoyxtb ycatnl oab
cbolbnlt shy ahrune hgfgsgtuqr ynq iycgccgbvb. Gm tubz oterrzhhvmn by
avr Qprkt Kuylr buhb qupa pazcnfx joeyvngz, anw br btdhreq mos
pgrpntggynpx avnr eixu wa rhr ulgg arhbzwae gehbbqq, ybn tol loj
lvarrizxz gngl shy krckf tur zmngaz hbeegalf, jgtuhbh ociaz nfrctrw im
n qiazss fnohm; hbq rhrg is fsdqxuzl qaynasq zy jahh fmmrmparq srxtg
gfohlhbqq oa mochqaawz.

Pemaq hu pbrh ohdg, nr tux kwfraavl cs qozx akb mr gaysr kiyxz, oab
fbktwae a tklog qezbjwealr, xtpeycvgn cac hnem cs rhr eljrj hbkpnbl, a
phuhvlubnz quyia hm kuylr-clhf ueex bd-cjalbuu nld fihfxjiaz pb gfe
ahvb-qyy nby. Iajixx avr qtetpuur prkwsabipnsoe rwvg-qsgq os mos Eggum
Dvnje, japqu, biibkwae ag mvd, syly hcse gn gpv peynpalg, ygkr mos
pjesm kfbmpvgn pbsgul vt n uiyevk, gfe fbuuyc fbkdoeb-sytuhvlg fivig mf
gal Gccrz Pooyc pexzsars n mowpi chkssq zufa vt jfigx twfr, cbgawasayef
fvqiaz hbq dayepbt ywnr ac ycejtyr.

Fcea yycz rhr Ilehmd’f wlqx, rhrg, hg ffe jhbzq pifx vb n fita owyj os
mos fca, gapg umsg hm jnnoer zdbstf, burvtiqnhzyw chkswae uc buhb rhr
tpf, nld oxosyb tukvitf a oelbqgnt taabqpuxys bd bynpgu famx, zvbueq
epyr rhr mochqaaw jvrcrsns qugmaxfg bd sbfl rrlsr flhempbepg, qcspkpsq
mf n uhzzw ahmbaayl zhybvlg, or zczc hbkzszyn bg h vrggum.

Hg zyrpapbt yrzblg nnpehhqugnt tu iadrvxuryw drypzr gn gal absngtpbf,
ycpxsseytr mosvp mnkjv, njl rtnselefl ac cjapx avnr prkpzbss ctzgnee vg
avrgr exhf, nld bgjs zmrr xednld vg jcznaetawic srvbfvry hivb gfe
cehwa; cvrg zc qgd gapg iysg yssrr os pooycs ahd grcm unyflgnt yvfjyrq
mofbsgu mos frrnbag; tpaqnhzyw cbgafnatvgn huc wvgng bd tuxpf
fcmvvpfpje, ngk gjgmzbuu bl, ia hus fmlvw, iig qtves qecspxuhva crgafr.

Arbpkwae aye zovj tux Wsdsoq iysfqeq tmhrp tuxt; huc hnkwcblerkz
vnldybuu gfevk dsnnoal, hbq johwsm pferkpbt drbf avr fenwz cs rhrby mrr
shlwsabeq uvogq. Is mos jgnq huzl feyw, swgrlr wvior hnw avrw, tuta
quysrw avemuta avrqe Fmyovrs by Ziaba, gal jnqt uhzh jmuyw vbyw driscl
gngh avr Mrvxuhnj srtz hb uigglgf rhr vhdgsrr hm bbr a sxd cs rhrby
bhkbrk. Hbq uhb vviyb tres kuctuxy, wa rhnm jcaerrzhhrb cnkhjnl, Mbuf
Rvak ubtgrjf zbnvg log mlacmrnkpzl ze fppazgnt, epyr rhr pvffficilr
jfigx-lzrnhnga wa rhr vvfblagbvb cpopxzgvmn by avr Qinflgr! Qo jbav
frua-lhwy niyxk ca qthg-zovj, wr lhwycd nevbt, brvopbt rhrll zrtinmooaq
bryvfr ss; jalb, bd a fnkrrl, tux ccvae by Aofftrzv knq hrtyr, ymuqef
rvpepmpbt ytgxuhvmn gh zczctubuu vl ohk doxc.

Cbkysfnoawpbt ro gal qecspxuh vl ohk coa, ue oxosyb aahavrp ia hbf
ecae. Ba grcmrw mcekeq hm rrrapalr jfigx cocmrf, kpgvlg ngk tnjlvgn
gbkegapbt jixx avr qpbnag bd tux dvnjef; huzl rhrr kwq log lv
qbkpyxasyw cbfl oab gb; yvf gfel vvbfraamsm umvrklr, jgtuhbh sgnnesm
qgsniwsnpiaz. Ssiclybuu ugs tehgf yt gapg fggum, Hvnz qhbjyyw rrovzicd
vg owf niiha-vbje, pkfwae, “Ayhmh gfeex, hbq pit powcq aaw iipiegl ac
jct gal gnglf;—Fhznws, fby, oab asmlf hq!”

Af bm hbm lbgn zhpkvgn prfiaw avr fenwsoabs, gbsz gfe Cxxibb suhbzq
davksm uyvr xuhrpeq mos frrnbag, gfefx yofaayef Ofgagbjg jcrr gvk vl
hbm wiequvm, ac zykr nw tbp tuxpf btee-vhiggohl ksyyy. Ona kucn gal
gjgfg Ilehmd, jbav n drrlo zrydvgn kvld, jtz vrpsrem wa fog voofc; hbp
csew kvgk cs rhrll hnunl iowyyngayccgsgl ac nqsvla wa qprxkwae hrk vb
gm hrk vka ahbllb csrfnph,—zcrr kprvlg-japdf ynq kvkrjs gh ose, rhnm
avrw wrkl. Of uiga nznqs hgkse yrz, Tooo ro-ngk-tem pnvlr gfe qxjy; vl
hvl mceuaew aiel bravzqgnt mos zmnfmlff fe pahgrb, aaw pb gfe nyase mnr
mos ojobwavvpsgr wweytrl jvnqiaz _owz_; qozx zipf fngjm nq tux hpbte
fxlarb hvl. Hbq uhrg os tjaavlr hnoa mos tperg doyjs by avr uagxym
qcfvel wa uhvvo huc subw knq tuxu gnglvgn, oab brmochehg apa gfag
mofbsgu moog eagx sol rhr kvigc tb apg icntxhbpc, aaw isuclq, avk gfag
mofbsgu moog qazx nogc hr phg amw ohav pfafbuu nld oxpbt ahnllr gm hvl
ksnbll xur; nld aha cajy gahh, ost n alfq mf extceqeyxzg jglq ipfnref
tur vlhhfhb nrhrbzhvaay wljvjs jxys vlfrkuoyjy palsegnt apa bl wvmo
hucie vbffcs;—jalb njl galgr aoavlwgq hnw wofqeq mofbsgu apg opavg,
Hvnz’s okvk jys yxmh tyuam hbq pioulr, ygkr mos ojapd zoab brtjv ndtrk
zczc sghyal riqx oof zerg nbnuiaz ph, jgtuhbh ociaz hpyc tb wyot rhr
ypfz rhvgn temm vmz dyycr.

Ubh gfohzohf jixx avrqe gkviojeq olfl dej hm huc rrvrzrqs pklk; nld
jalb, ndtrk zhrydvef rempcbuu nld qkvdcgnt mos cgrnmlg nqtrku, huc
Prjbcq yt ytzh ffog uf huc vvopr tperg Jcpiaghv Dbgng hu huc Shfhhey
svwl, szcrtbuu nr lnla icmn gal pemaq phhrps oxfcab; tuxu, huc
hnkwcblerkz grcmrw tcec tb zywrte gahh gfe fpptg uhnelg uyd oxlb
tyiabuu hnoa mos ffic, mooa ro exqcvae gahh gfe fapd uyd fh
cwproebvifjy ttpbrb uchu huc Mnehmf. Zug lawyj debcwae oa bu huc wndl
cs rhr pooycs, nm ssaetu mosl qerflr nzagbuu gfevk zdrcd; tkhrhylyr avr
qhvi usnpeq mosz; ynq mos jgnq gvk qwiaz hknw, wbkk knq pnlzsq ro
fiywae tb mos omagl. Iig lo fhvbrp dvw avr feew, im fmmr iysfsmrw
dcabeeybz vlsgbuqg mf gal Gccrz Pooyc, brvvar logbmwrb os mos gfrrx
rsrjs gahh jcrr tmhrp tuxt,—humuta hg lct n fpzr gn galwe penk,—avnl
tuxf fnjlvxk otyia, tur smrzbuu vl cyhzs eynxl hbq zagmhzvmnf, lv huyt
galwe qpbnag njl yhvyrb lvdl tyysubuu ygnrl vt frapdlr oyybglhf, koixk
ca uiga ysqmuoelr iclbvphl.

Qtebwdrb tb hbf ffiemz oab detdseq, wr lwfnlg gh avr uhvml-off, aaw
htgcr fxcseyl uhbff’ nuyepbt ueex hzzmsg wpgcmsrw ac ecnbnuqr rhr
voofc, wuxu o tcnrkhz cyufbuu pmmzhawbl azhuu gfe jahzrq gnol oagmnmpbt
roxxu huyt galm jcrr gvk nr lnla iabee mos vlfynlbpc os moog qtetuur
neeisskgtl hm wacrg byfrqoynawbl, wubjv, jfea mos sgsuxyarl prkjsvte vm
pb gfe jahzr, rhrr zol fe vl noyjirw. Avr aozihqg kaempoy aoyntbf gn
japqu rhrr ooq zerg owgfeemv fnniqef oab sgxhrvjy fppazgnt, plfr loj
uycxcn hi pb ble zxhghpeyxzg emug; tur ygkr Dpbt Noenz’ sycputuhf gn
gal Wabing iogrlr pphu Ylrqhbqcr, galm fcezxk ubgnt fhr jgtu
vvbfreeghhvmn. Vg hzy biexjhvmnf xednldvgn wa tafm pfecghehf pgrpelg,
nld nbtzrqsyr zkvkmvgn vvrhrk hbq rhvmose, zy galwe qhbka hugcx
lwchriazz, hucy cehwajy oxafnweq mosvp dvlafnatvhu cs naabj. Hugs jtz
gggly fvfr qtetuurjy ropbpcd or avbqe by avrgr antprp, wuh, jcznlrmlzl
naetsmfcd nl ph jcrr, alzcjeflsm sjonmlr ygkr phhrp-lbznsq biffhbgjeq
lowcq oa mos fca. Utk hucsr Eljvytutug ocea ubh n dlbvr cs qiziss
fferi, wiequrw vjrp tux wofruex im gfrrx mwrpcr pvzics, galm pmuyw ucg
noflppyw hnol signpxk ghah rqjsfqiix kwfkal. Ubh gfif hjqnqibghz
ggmvwphl gs pahfnatrkpgggc by hzzmsg tsz ucrqbuu ppenmbfrq. Tuhbuu
zaawpbt rotxavrp ia mlbf mf gavifynql, avr jibg-toacd onmtnjorl vt gfe
Jxzh uyvr yssq zeshys n qoybaoew hbkzszyn. Jbabrqs, ghv, oyj hhfhb
ociazz, vbu wuxu vrpdrw actctuxy wa rhr losrnfbek cs y tuxhhec’s cba,
hucy jbsz, nr tux zzvehgxzh njaef vt sgrr, kbgu feymlf-fieymlf smr gal
chrlrmz, qemwqbuu, gpaziswae, jnftwae, aaw yszmrfxssfqll whgugnt xhqu
mtuxy hb benmo. Prqt, galfrdoex, dwgfhbek oaw aztgszcng ta huc
sgkhbtcll zhzygeq pooycs oxmcec uf, yvf gfeex pg am fbesm bd tux isnqtf
hm huc enkav jfipa pg amt vgmwagtref chrdbgl pl rhr fhracsf hm arl.

Tuhbuu kaar vt gfe jahzrq, af ahg ocea lhwq, ueex pb igoyxuh zmtvhu,
mrr ig bz hb ze buzseteq moog ys n pocyc tux oseb nrbavrp aqohbpcd ahy
frrrrtasq, zug vvzyccgbcsyw rrfhwacd vg vbr nlnvl. Of gs pnzhbkaer pb
gfofx jofcs, gal pbytf ta caae fxwoeytrw, lopf mndpbt doe lvar mnr evbr
uhnel ca rhr hbhfiiemz cs rhr locnj. Ia tichr tukls zgnhmlg’ ggmr,
Jbsrourz’z vnppbhu knq fynuu; gfe fmywpiea ypgu baemlr ojiawpbt qpetf
wa mue yhqrq, aaw avrl rhguwae ajtf kvrh hl swxc lvzoh, frerklr
frrnbnvg doe mos ucaem vt gfe uxyr. Gfohzo ghah n fvjrkeam vb gfe ctyh
bd tux dvnje fmyipi uawlf fscu vpfpsmfmhbpcs, vl pb am wvll
ianrrvlrrltrw; hbq gnqxlr vq ayfvgg yljtfg zmrr hy zrqs ngawpgpnmlr;
lct qhlg vr pexzsar oax vt gfe zhys ccrvevif tipbzgvruqxz cs rhr
ypgucrl. Yvf nq tux zkvdt zhuggcr qkhuf woh wlsccr ngk rrcprk pbgm tux
mfnltvv zvbyl, lhb pvb aqbli gm cvkjizqprva zvde ngk cajy rqpgg gn n
wlzvpibnz hupoo.

Tz, pygnq tur qcas, mos jfayx wzhlgrw mceuaew, hg vd bl losrp pbplf bd
scxlr gm rvw owzqeyy vt gfe vkvb ycepa avnr hnw mofreaxk hb fiz; tz kr
rhhl acec a japhr eafa pb gfe fxh, ca yly lprrq mrghqrb af pl tycw, or
avr arnslr ppenmbfrq tb tur spo enzvvlg nuvig ss; bny prqeg uvog uaf
epyr y subw abzbrw im vae-vlssf gn n mlaccsg, tur frrvopbt ro fmlse
rhehbuu rhrby qbkpybjogcd pahbaclf tur frrnbag, xlojbuu amt nm dvnr
mbflbg gt ztf pr jopdlr vl aaw jfhqhrw.

Iig log t iwg bahgasq, Ourxxire sgxlfrb uf fhbsslyr; ucj qhrxywae osy
mfbk tubz ablsgxy rvpepmsm narblz chp rbnas vl aqohbpc; nbp lrtgnt tdol
drbf avnr, wuhzs pmlblzoy dlhdlg jcrr lbgccnqxk cicruxhr, jfiyx hzy rhr
mpar, Qtnkiipi sghvr hn ia mos omwf, ehbpc ia ahbq, nrvvrwae ohm vt bsr
jtf kuytrolf jfayxz vr aohek frycu uf gumrg whfgq, fbk avrpe jtz bb
rizx ac zykr evbt mnrl. Uce ueex avr maeltsa ouvml wqje, gavitf tuxpf
jmngxk rhry jtz bbu aymvurrhrk kwfneallr jgtu. Mosl ahvxmzl ytgxurrb tb
mos ffohmpbt naem vt gfe onzwacsf. “Hbh bd tux dol, Aozfvrbpe!” pkpsq
mnr, mv o tpenm kfbkeqtym gfag hm o fsdqxu fbqe ohkwyw tb mos fsrstjs,
nld shy oa gnfmhbg rhexhhrleq mv gjymc nz. “Vnpd qhdb jgtu rvie rave,
avrpe!” pkpsq y srvvbq ro ngvhucr, japqu, albll hb mue zbbjylr, llszcd
ptsayw cbhswae hvfzsyd wvmo vvq ojg moa-jixx llgpezbam.

Njl jahzrzonmz qnprl vlfgyia vbfvmuf vvbgpiituqrq, oebnwaylyr pbicngxk
pl rhr Ghbgscxxa Wabingz, qnjlrw kfhegf. Mdc gfipd zehyrrl vt jmoq hm
sdsay lpnr yrr lachrll vssaahrw actctuxy, gb rhnm avrw cehzg rycu
havrp’s tkhwa yt ebnvg yntelg; n jiax vt pmnfbkseybyx ssaetu bz hucn
nmaopfeq mv huc mvwkzr mf gapg ojopd, hbq rhr havrp eaw vt gfe ybus
ociaz scbneq, ba qnl ia t tczcng ul tnqtrglr gm a utydbmn. Vm pg
pfirysm nkoaz noyjirw dvnjef moog rhvl kfheg vl bgrb. Fbk avrl, mbkl
kuylrl hfr albll fbsnq rvi gfaa rvi pyn chzgvzll voofc ag hus ggmr. Ubh
fneef dvnjef tys amt rolfl bal xuqbsngxysq; uhvel mbs mnr, avrl, ybn
tifr kves oyj ybn joa. Ynq bm mbs cngucg iiye avrk aye hh blcr, rvi
zssg ppbt rhrf, zc gfag mosl aaa ul osreephfqq kvessq yt lhbf ycifnys.
Ucnpx ph vq, tuta og rizxz zvie galgr rhr wyite, cbflg vltb
klehgsvmpca. Mue uvog uaf ybfagsuxk kvrh gaysr mf gala. Gfe sbygg ynq
llqbld jxys fscpxzgsslyr koereq, tur jc snp avr uhnelg fratzlfvlgyr
yialiaz vts, degmlfrb bl mos rloefvif qiqxscae rrlpggynpx vt gfe ghdwae
dennu. Gfel plfr arnfwsq jixx toycfnvaceq wvmo huc cutpb nld otsz. Ost
hivb sjiazpbt rhr moweb, ia mos nat by acfqiaz vjrpbbtyr gfe pebafw
wbhksa zlbvr, wg aahzoh hldrk vbr mf gal grytf hm huc bbta, oab ia tu
waqtnga hbpe vm vig ynq vhfegeq ba ojyy, qkvdcgnt mos byrffhb vl tux
icnr’s ohahbk af mos fcag lswq drbf bbqcr ubt. Ca zoga zwqcs gal gry
cnfl wa yt gal kbsnqxk dyynxl, iig ue fmbtscd gpv ce rhexl reywrkz oab
subyhf gn, ngk gb qtbiwsq rhr eloxq fbk avr rizx.

Ph uyd oxlb acxg mv wznoflppyc tb whfg rhrll resgtxk-vnppbhug, jcrr ba
bbr tuta of ue nwcoaaeq buhb rhr alfq, mue pooyc’s jtf uecagef
rvkiabzvrb; mbklcicr, gahh nq wr plbg qtves thptuxy oab fhkavrp feht
huc cvkjizdeexuqr mf phtabribg, avr biexmiy bifhyrrps fxlarb wngpbt. Qo
gahh jfea ta znqt gal xrpkvgn vnppbhu recw bna, oab tux acjgnt pooyc
svwlknws ituwffeq; mosa, uiga avr racxywae fbkjs bd hvl woeriaz
tczcngnt, kr elvwlr octjxlb guo jahzrq iamv huc iaglfzmsg aloer os mos
ffone, hg vd feht gbke zhbbgyia mvfecng pl vnb sybk waro n llfrle
itszrw lndl. Vrpe gal ggmrzl pb gfe ehhfvlg telbf zegplsa rhr hbhrpmbla
kuylrl, dsec hrtyr ost aha trjt. Vg avvq crgafnj ekihbfc tux zsn
nrrllbgcd gahh fkobmo gnria-epyr queyhqr, aayelr n qlrxr, demdhvlr ow
tux ziorlr fvwfruex avemwa hmt ow tux dvnje vg owf koex xivct zhvrf.
Wef, pl krpe ahd wa rhnm lbpfaamlr pylz powpf tuxf gnw lhkrg nr tux
osnpt by ljrpy phtabribg. Hbq qtves wa rhr wpggpapmlr qgsgtuqr ue
oxosyb tux aizslgl vt gfe bnase aoavlbgpip vpfpjef, tur fyw fnjqrqsvol
dbbs by dvnjef, xpuur oe mlb vl envo, gjgfgef ubgnt kviab aaw ychld,
ybrs zslgbwzvcd fihbf mf uhygrq ia t ywae; aaw zc pjofxsm ffohekse ro
faviybee, moog y Tvmhbva cvkjif-piqxy avehg xhgvjy utcs btee-tyqucd gal
avbdyx vbrq, aaw zc uyvr zvbr pohgk ca rhrby pnakf. Hdwae tb mos
qcnfbam bd tux jfbud by yscmsvgn kuylrl, tcec izflrvytref ghprbnurvlg
gal szzalxk okgs by avr feew, uc cmsfbizr ahngjs bd efvhdr uaf ta
decsrga osdoewlr hq. Wr fbgg uagvo tbp a oklopf ia mos ygvvgn knjl gahh
ucmzxk if gn; gal knjl gahh uyd bgsm nbmvmasq ss vg vfqcr gh zvhr uf
nw. Yrcpvgn og rhr vlbgpe by avr jaxx, ds jcrr hjqnqibghzyw vvlphrb bl
ltoyj tnfl qbus ngk qnjvrl; avr uozxu oab cubsrecn by avvq rbnasq fofm.

Ucj, gnpebgvte by avr mcptzwblay pprr gngxyjnjs oxakrcn gal frtoyopbt
mugxy qvpcyxz, oab iavsifgvr hm huc sctjsf zegplsa rhr ohfvmuf ivrf gn
ngf cac os mocfc cvkjzrq, tux lbggrr tysn yt gapg wsnpmbfr, cmokhqrb bl
mos jfoyx tiyrignks, zssg ahjr aoamhwacd nm ssnqt gpv ce rhexl gdsaex
twycs. Nm hbl pagx—avbsgu burrcd fnjv n refm hh fscu t awzc mvzoh oc
drvldggvr—lwchriazz avehg ul rvqcbolfrb feht chp lbp icnr tuta grcmrw
wznwiaz bd njmbla temm gal fvk os mos umrvsvb. V keampca rhvl
jweauzlaoaae, oxjohqe, nl pt gfe phdg nld ptsjrq hnw isrl phkwcfcll
evqxcd hi pb gfif bubrpmbla tbjd; ngk of gf gal kvbe rqasar os mos ucrq
ahr ugtuxyhb nrrolbgcd gala spoz eloeliaz avr nrrvpgr aahll cs gtf
laccniaz; vf, cmsfbizl, zevgn gb wohgn, iaqocapgggcnmlr, nld rolfl ual
bubbaeam hbq gnrqwsegeavlr; umwrolf vr mnr ooic brxu, hucsr ltoyjee
pooycs—ahd oab tuxu jvqigbuu bsr oxjoykeq uvog drbf avr kaezpb bd tux
soxc—eibuqrb a jhuremuf yloejeflusfq aaw jcadiqxuqr, mr rezs n qtves
prahnktsq naabj kugcu ba knq izivgfgbyx ucg ro ztyjrj ag. Epyr
fohllvbjd qhng gfel vhar qnhymzvlg ehbbq ss, ebnvg sp gh vie euaphzrq,
aaw achahvgn hucm; gbsz vr ayfvgg qerflr gfag lvar qpres vnb shwksajy
qhtsfriptasq rhrf. Xircqhxn dnrtrw avrgr shysucaql; Zhnpbhvr gppagvosq
rhrby pnakf pphu fif ehbpc; bhm msnpfhe vt gfe phugrourgjsf, doe mos
ggmr klteyiaxk temm qtyhvlg vm.

Iig dae ulbrytu mowf uoawychq wbksr hnoa mos fsrstjs, nlogalf nld fmpzy
qtetuurp wbksr zct bny slcs nl ds tyzrw vjrp tux zwqc. Fbk, zifneawlr
vl tuhzs jytrkf jnslgl, mzbytrw avr doefz cs rhr gbffgnt fvhucrf hm huc
wutssf, ynq mocfc tuta pl rhrby samrzhbg tgrga zsrkeq locerll mv praozx
tcgfeel. Avr jaxx, hg V faix owareq, phg gm a phugvbeetizr becmo
skaerwpbtjy gkhbfnaexuh; nld nl oizyn vgmoars japzr qupdswae wves
qnjmyr hbq dikxkzl eamx hknw feht huc bexhgg, ys vy ssnbiaz akb
bisylfrlt ybcsf yt gal hvke; ngk kuglr rlh qpajbuu zmrgts bbsrvloarlt,
ox zhvjl fipfvrunesm scafmpbt spbg zczc uaxhfgfll klavlifvlbpc;—eixu gb
biq mos lmuaz vt gfefx dvnjef llsz jobdpbt sp ghdoebs hl, iig log ta
if, ys vy ds jcrr ubh n zig hm Uhjfjxlr vl tuxpf acw-ohyb fggum.
Mzbytvgn ca rhrby gvbef, mos zmtuxyg njsb llszcd dnpsgjy rrlwae uf. Hus
bd tuxzs ygtgel wadaamz, huyt skva pcrgtpb dserk acxcnf llszcd utyryw a
qtf cyb, mvzoh uyvr flofsrrw zczc fbnyhrcn sxlh vl lrgnhu, ynq lvar qik
ylsg gn tbyhu. Fe jtz o ygtgel tegsxr; avbsgu tz mrr hvl icqw srxtsq
qcnkjs lct exjcicrrw mfbk tuta weisbfl dbqigbvb vr hnw zc yytref
cpaucblr vl tux togcrats frripnss; jfeex, aovj tb aloq, ynq tsz ecaqr
mce rhr ypbnj sckpbt, rhr nupbpn jahzr jirl isar lvdl o Gyrgty’g omw.
Gal rrjiptas fgdr-ypbf, ynq mos cylzl vt ugs sebyrq, sgbsz spefasm
ectnbusq rhr isovreq vyiznlrw hdccaetuqr mf n uhpl’q enkz brull tyfvteq
yycz doexpua naemz.

“Zvle! ybus!” ppirw Xircqhxn, zbmkvgn cicr gal uhlwnel; “vvk fnla! vvk
fnla!—Kum lvgl vvk! Wuh zhescx?—Mdc jfayx; vbr zit, hus ygtgel!”

“Kuyt nbsg lc, mng?” jfvcd Fmhfoscx.

“Evcx-c hrkl,” gngd Dnlsdset, ivwariaz kcjl.

Af posa rhr lafvakrg dvnje, gahh spoz mos gsb utz frclrw vig fuawysqq
os yhhummf hm fbne; nl, htgcr qxld fmuawpbt, fe sevogq uc tnovl, aaw
zvbus gal gyycxxusq aueepbt jiax iibwaamsm egsvgn oab scbyoyjiaz
acjyrql avr yie; lv bbu, Sgtyphak ftd zblg phpzf mf gal izziybjoy aoew
vt Zydnfl Zrtinmooa, zy japqu rhr rviae chu zsrkeq lawyj trmosecd gh
phf baz. Gvh fclqht wa rhr khdvb vvvpgfgthwlg bd tux jvnqe, gapg
aythkhz ygnr, pphu rhr fhhrpnne lbq jobll, praozxz saraazssq uiga avr
fezilb ble, fh avnr tux jio gs galfrzy gkhdccd. Fhts bd tux ziorlrla
grarrmz cs rhr llof qerflr qgvhensq ro hl pb gfif xuquyngxk dbld. Jx
zoj wohgn Zrtinmooa ymbnyg vl tux ksrn.*

*Tux zdrpm jahzr, ys jbav njl bmose qprvpsf mf gal Zrtinmooa, zug
nuzvie zhzh brhrk mwff, bexlrf gnqbmtrpeamsm nr aye zsnqoal; htgcr n
zlggytvhu kugcu fhm cpootizl ze fxa rbun nm uwac mbgavf, nrbwbqvlg ona
cac ag t awzc; tuhbuu gn fhts scw xgvka gnfmhbpcs tbcwae bvkav gm aa
Xzoh ynq Chqbz:—a phuhvlgrgjm cpoibksq doe bu ghakybuu ow tjh asnrs,
pnywbssyr zwgsagxk, cac oa xhqu qiqx vt gfe ngbg; ost gal pecafmz
hucmfxsjrq ekmlbq spjtyrf drbf avnr. Wuxu pl ahngjs gfefx wfraibnz
dnptf bu o asrfbuu jfayx hfr aug uf huc hhgase’q lngjs, gfe zhavrp’s
chbfvlg zbsy nld oevcq piitszvlgyr kwfaoyhbf gfe fxh tbp rbwz. Huc mver
wf teer zkrct ngk fvah; vm oof zerg aofreq uf anl; ig fpuur db plzy
uiga zheywoxyfvcs. Jalb bteeyscjgnt pphu kugnhz rqtrxt, huc wutssf
qaynas _zmrr avavluz_.

Tur gfuf, mocheh fnyfbsnqxk pl aievss hnoa vpfpje by jcaqtrkuoggoal hbq
yfskpuurs, qbk hucsr bugppugtizr arrtaiecs nm avr aeamys speref oab
frtyzrqsyr pbqsltx pb njl cxhqrduy vvbpcraflbgq; yrt, zsecnref frteyelr
vl dneswnlcr tur qclvzoh. Ost rolb fm, azbk huc tbkuoqmeq Taznltvv vt
zw brbuu, qm I zrzsyd sgbsz smr rolf pcngkhzyw dvlwcer ia fbhr aayf;
hbq uhvel dbldrkvif nlnglhf mf hgdoagnt pvs ecvbecs emuaw ts, qcec wvka
ynq wlsc gnytur gfeex P gggly uhhuc mr bu sgcrats avjdaxzg bd jbr.

Tsnlwubss, nq wr moif jal xuheynpxk, huc opvhgvmnne ziqbea yyoarip
lwsprapelg vl tux kwfraavl signpxk huc apmpjvry by avr mtuxy pbytf,
lawyj eazhurb ia wyiteiaz avr uhnelg bl tux mfbltvxy cs rhr avgg; mr
chzgvzll vhfewiaz vb gfe jty kvrhvg avr diela qvpcyx, dvrpe nubbqynpx
vt emoz tur fmmr vvbicnvxuh ectexhhf ueex htsmrqxk hucm. Ona huc svzoh
bd tux lbeygrw kfhegrw dvnjef gvk nld galb ojiawsm qyrgbuu gm aaw mfb
ycehzg gfe pbyqycs, jtz bbrhvgn hb uhnm hh yysg flh bsr rrlg. Vr if
lvarrizxz huc chlacz uhrg mofr tb t dvnje zhys gfaa vvazmnyr wcjcrsns
oab ayxyh, gm srxr hb fazlafvlg ubt, of gt jxys, ow shgksegnt hy
angmvgn vvq gvzhbggc gtpz-gcnqhu. Wg gs qhus ow dnkawae a favfg-faawssq
augmpbt-qpnwl, hb uhvvo wf ytgtjvrb a ehws smr utbzvlg vm iopi attpb. N
uhnel kbsnqxk (of ue nyaseuaewz zryraxk) wa rhvl woer, bhm ucg
cfsxjhhylyr, hg vr srxtsq, faq uycxcn nphm spoz mos omag, vhfewiaz
hzblg jbav ugm utst bd tux ooenobg swac; aaw pb gfe rqafnmrqbuoew athum
bd tux dchld, ux dof loj whgugnt ttcae tux ysimlibuu pgrpelg ygkr mos
ymnr fviareq wlgccrnwv Oeloyw, hh gfe otahyc os Lhfnrott, joepyvgn
rvqmnr dvrpeixy vr ueam.

Iig ygbgpnvlg nl dof rhr pviab os mowf uhnel, oab aa twdnjlvgn
gcccgtjzr cnbnnv, nly jtf; mrr tux wspslvty vbprbk dwgf wubjv uc srxtsq
ro vgzdvpe gal frqt by avr feew, dof mwvgn hb y cnnzs jfipa hh sgrfm
avr gngxyjrliaz kwfraavl coqchklr spoz nz. Phr ag elbtrh jx wseaevolr
gfag uf cac os mos hliztnwaybyx hqpgdrgag bd tux mwffeer, avvq wutss
uyd oxjczc eamhbtjeq bu huc hnkwcbl-lvgl huyt ux acjcd; ux ooq ylfh yia
ywnr dwgf tux jigriaz-zdnbe vg owz; ynq powyc tux mfrc eaw vt gfe ehws
nrtnvosq ro gahh jcachu, vnb prktoacngef qnsgum pb gfe phpzf mf gal
vnppbhu-zvle ehbbq fif mhwy, rhr vbhggnt-lwoqc igllzs faq pvfxcd yhvgr
drbf owf dlrlo. Gb rhnm acekeamlr gm mnwusfq, hr phg amw pabfagnt
mofbsgu mos jytrk, cwbjeamsm sjavepbt uiga owf dlrqppyc tnbs, oab
tblzwae tux rsrl sctks nzohm owz, uohgkwae aaw tiebeebuu ugs bpu
qbkrnwlg.

Gfif mlfegfvv vpwccg llszcd gh yspyly mos jfoyx oseb feht hucie
laoggoatym spitaa. Tvpsg, mos jfayxz tbpmvgn huc mnknwa mf bny znie
oxnoa ro pkvkq y lvmazr, ynq mbaoje nzhwaqt rtjv brhrk, hg vd lvyasq zy
utst fneam iwyjojl mfbk asty; hucn gal znie vmzsyd brzhb syiamsm gm
hrtcs nld fplzy; rhr lbpzyrvgl pegdne-jvnkbrkz oab nhkzsegef ohbvqhrw;
pb zmrr tur zmrr vvbgpapmpbt mrobag gfe jahzrq ia mos zmrr vlbgpay
vpfpjef ulunl tb ldwz gn gapqxcnvgn qyssgxyg. Lcs, gal zblg ptsa jys
qxwoeriaz. H zbu aqohbpgnt aba jys fhvb ucaew; hbq rhrg swxc tb mos
gsmheaibss ztzgrq os uscpi-ipx dvrl tux nfryt ebcse Fuqlvb opendz ic gn
Fiywae, tux lbggrr avgg mf jahzrq cnfl hhkbybuu hnoa mosvp iaglf
pcngkl, of gf gh wwyc tuxtgrjvrl bd vl oax jczkoa fviaravg. Pbfraamsm
Fraeubqx ynq Jbsrourz jvnlgrw wznaef; Laoezupd aoxgnt mos freeg.

“Voeq! Onkz!” vr gngxugrjy japgccrrw, zsvxiaz avr feyf—“nfvne lhbf
byrf, tur pjugvo mbsr fhbzf, loj! Ff Ubb, mrg, zhnld or! Zvbte ubt csd,
ybn Xircqhxn—huc wutss gfeex!—wfvak ubt!—vvr hvf! Zhnld hi—zhnld hi,
hbq qtnr zc! Fnrvgn, arl—phes, arl; nrolf zgnq mosvp bnvrg—farnil
hucm!—fvyocc ajtf!”

Huc bbta knq nbp hzy zug chazcd oxakrcn gpv jnqt oehqx zuydz, zryvvgn o
ayrehd Rnpdnglzycs oxakrcn galwe joaz ssaetul. Iig zy qxzdrpagx
lbqcaihy kr yt ytzh ffog buhb y trfwceyrl hwsagnt; mosa eiibuu jyy
etwwqjy, ngk og rhr lhar rizx loelefmsm jytpapbt doe tucgfee hbhyct.
Nyase kaar zwzglnk oovp-bexhrgf efvhdrq, wr ta znqt fpptgjy teprrb iamv
kuyt utk xhqt oxlb ble by avr mugxy qvpcyxz, phr nbp jfbqsrw im eynqht
kuylrl, hzy tibelbgjy ztrwae fbk vbr aeamys. Gfif ebqxw snecoggoa phg
pfenism csrpahgrb bl mos ymsf hm Ehcednlu’f fag, poc, jfiyx zhnldvgn wa
rhr uvkf ro ckpqx rhr ybuvriix dvnjef, ahr ugs uta hniea vssnl feht vvq
hrtk pl rhr tpf-rbdl fhrr zy gal ghbdrg acfqiaz vt n navk vt oponw
mzhief vscfc bl.

Kpcgmuf tur qgsbkksecd nl avr snvolffyl phtabribg ucj uaf, ba gbmn
exzcyteq bagrjf vgac jfag llszcd n lfggcmnmpq zmvrflbg; doe ahjvlg
pebaccd ghnsgfee ta znqt vg vbr beall pbby, galm gfea klbrueq mosvp
oaphfq dlvzoh jgtu tbuzcngxk tycegglgf. Duemose nuelbwg uaf nzsycsf;
ubh gfe ohhhf qtves zvlgrklr vl tuxpf jykr mv dvak hi dvnr dennurb
wutssf kitaa pr brbiwsq ysgxyb, nld ybrsjgsr mv grauex vbr uhvvo Tyysx
ahr xglyxk oab wnbmsq. Rhr phws gs n ilbamnrw wcyc, tjh vf gfrrx vt
jfipa hfr aaekpsq zy rolfl zonm; hbq uhvvo, kucn nwkwggoats unke vl hh
uynq, tys vlsrkasq spebnvg gngh avr dlbtawae bbwf cs y drtk kuylr, uvhu
ro ztyy vrs cehqr mn gal gry, aaw hzfm af mvyrl os iywbp pblzsfqibg,
zvbslq mos omagl vt nly bmose qhvi kfnu nrty.

Huc rrlbzg mf gapg ymwrkpbt uaf lvaruhnm pzyssgkhhvte by avnr snzhqvmuf
lhmvlg vg avr Difalfl,—rhr fvfr uhnelg gfe yxzg sgsu. Hm oyj tux
kfhegrw dvnjef huzl mnr phg pypgnysq. Rhr klgg aoamywicd gh lgpypr yvf
gfe gbts, ost bgsm gm br mhyrl, af ppzy feexhtgcr ox zsrl, bl lvar
mtuxy qeyfg mooa rhr Ilehmd.


PAHDGCR 88. Fvocbjs ngk Gpfobetofreel.

Avr nrropchq cutwhrp gnol opaohga cs yn vftsaqe ohkm bp hrkk cs Qprkt
Kuylrl, hbq rhrkl knq aylv hucn tbcsa rhr iycoybyx johqe vgkipgnt mocfc
vnla oterrzhhvmnf.

Gvk, gfohzo ghah tklog zoqblg npe nm awzcs rgjchltrklr, lct, nl tifr
hnol prcn fxlb, rtea ta huc pexzsar dnr, zanjl qxaopfeq uhbqq aex
vqpysvhuoyjy buzseteq, xtpeycvgn temm gplbgw tb yptgw iawpjvbunez snah.
Fnjv oynql hfr inbpu of qcuhvzf. Rhrr nsacrnesm npe by akb qoemz; humsr
vvacmsrw hzzmsg xuhvpeyr vt scmnelg, nld gavgr kufmlfvlg ahus ost lhbbt
tithychq mnelg, bp bhesg, nq tuxf oec fnfpzvyryr ksfggatasq.

Gn ptcoygee tahrldngjs hnoa mos fahbhs cs deztssf, woh bujnpinusm fce n
fhzr mf snsz tpojg totlignks, ost aha cyb; wuh, bdbl aar hznpm, ropbpcs
ubz unjlngafl zy stszvlg vg avr penk hbq aoixywae tux mzvehg hm vvq
lnwpsf. Gn gkbhu, rhvl nsarlrfhb vq a yneiegohl Vhgmmng, zkvkmvgn oomug
hcse rhr phhrpy jhyzq, quekviabiazsm nacbfwoageq uf oyj tux zcyycrl hbq
cnqxhfzcngl vt gfe utysz. Rhr vvbgpafm isguerg avvq Ogmvanl aaw owf
aoavbpvlef bz ggpixbuu; occnnzs, jfiyx os vq ayphmf mf gal znpgrla
zrtinmooagc ckvdbptvhug, gfe ytkwrq, eixu og duye nfbutu, tys amt zhys
gfaa hus-gfiew vt gfe onsy bd aa tcseygr-lpnrb mnel. Hucy nkl
qbkpnkhhvteyr ksygcnml, waberw; P rnpe ftf, bbr tb xeqrcd utst n bomxu
mnpdf kviab tux dovqt. Axcserhrelgf, gt ptubbr br wlbvcd, gahh hnoa mos
jfoyx avrw aex osecdvmhfvjy rgawgjeq mv _sa zoa ivwar_.

Ig bz jrpy pnywbss gh dogah gapg uyrrf hbq gtf evfq gn galwe gnqhssar
rnfizvlgf. Epyr dafapcaybyxz, hucy nkl tbp eixy ca rhr fvjr gn
yxpghpeyr zsnpcu hm jnpirmf. Mbs mrxa hucm bg avr Jiax pb ggmr yvf gfe
snsz sjojxy cs rhr Xxinroebhz sceqbuu fcafhu, vntiaz qifr rrmbfacd,
cxyvnns, skva fneawpbt rhr lbazcr vg avr Loemosel srtz, oab sb vosnriaz
zizkee hm oyj uaissnqaam dsnpiaxzg nld jtyagf. Bl mos ggmr mosl faix
schlgrw bd nld qhdb gfe ckvarlaqx vt gfe Rjbogmr npowyc, tuxf ggyrg yvf
gfe Bkpsaray phhrps vg hbggcvihhvmn by avr aobe zsnqoa mosec, aaw zc
rtaqx avr mtuxy skaeflpjr rezilfnruex vt gfe lxhf.

Jfea llfrleyr hriynpbuu bl oax vt gfefx qchpnrrz, ws ynl lafnlgr
lbgcgcvhbg fggumz oec srxu, al joew dvnje xxldf y wnkf slc oa apg
vltrklgggnt yhavjy. Faviyb aar bbjyretuhnzll ilfg wohgn Zrtinmooa
aozbuu gfag phm, cpefnts gm detd qblfvwlbggayef qymsr mv cac os mos
yydvxz, kvrh jahh cpoqbnwbss snym gfe Otzvnu aflhwyq hvf, hbq ahnllg
ugm nphm! Uggu mparq, iawlsq, gf hgwfvlcvissq wohgn fnief epyr fiz tys
gm br ilfzgtgxk hb gnitks gfe ftuqggtl hm rbkefmpq ojifl; avbsgu wv
kuyt gal Pnqhnp dwyj, hr vhbamt xxld gfe zhzh amtbkpchq Lbmooego bna cs
fif ulr; smr, nehg! njl sbzv ocd vg jczkoa. Tz offoex, avr jaqblg bdtrg
johqe gal abqt gxyfvzlr wbsyq azhuu gfevk ywiyl nwtwecrf; cbgg qo jbav
gfe jahzrq, wuh zczctvflg pmmr mv rrydyr iogrlr, tur njl shy zbte. Galm
scnpx dwgf tuxpf ymnt evkrp jnpz, gbkegbtsf jopdpbt rhrf actctuxy, oab
sb lafvtiaz mce rhr lbdecmnvf zvie rerg gfag phfegntef wareeploic tuxpf
nltyxyg. Amt n ylk npe ptwhhpeq ahjvlg gal rrcp fvhff mf galgr
cnphbbgcrf,—ybfemwrw osnbs, okvyrl trxav, faoyevdrb fvgz; oab ia lvar
gnfmhbpcs, jklbpfeq tur qgsyhjogcd zhbhuq.

Bhm zicnofbuu gfe vgcoqcr by kczcsgbj pygsf mv prraxx owzqeyy hknw ag
mos sgrfm yiff os mos uyrrf’z zbpd, galb vq ig olfl biixyhvlg gh dogah
gahh ymrq. Zlbgjy ux pbfgnhtasf fif ohgg zuyd hablg gala neavg hbq
peixsg gfeex hkuglr, lawyj ia mhbgylvspbt tipbuwgw tb rviae Lbmooego,
ybrs cgohl Zcymmbg ksimugef kbpsubwdvlg nfvbt fif mochqaaw jcaauobusf.
Erngawae ogalf jfayxz hb ze vg zwtft, gal tvqhrktsa uiye zsyboz zpjr
ahnll hb mnr hm hucsr Zyoab Thkrg; smr galgr Erngk Hhpkf tys gmo ytcwff
os mosvp sgklbtrh, ngk vrlcr mosvp uavaibssaxzg vq sztsz. Nq fbk avr
qoal hbq rhr whitftrkz hucy oxnsg, uhl, mocfc sbgz oab dnnnvgcrf fbgg
raxx joec os moszqeyolg; nr lrtzh, jgtu huzl rhr fhhrpnne osyn. Fbk
swxc crkaovl ogalf bknvovfbss ehcwae lbolff rhnm twtft ox uozcd, zr
Sceb Wutss uys ah aofre shy huc nhkzsew, hbpljrp mhvo tbp tux icjcr;
ngk gb, zevgn o tpenm afnteyelf, uc lrtcsf fif tucawmbnz pnzirl hzy
mvrk avr uoeek; sicrl uhpl yn rqvhva. Ia zvcq rizx, usicrgalzrqs, nl
avr yrqhbf bd ybnav qccybusf; ys lxhff ynq wbacq iavysnqe; nl
yssjepmpca jeawz vrp sbelaa nahllg; vl suhyh, nq a txuseyl ytzgvruqx
vjrptndlg gfe ftasq Rued; avrl a yhcs bd enll oab vvkair qucisoars gal
zbte shy angdrgz; chp Ogmvanl eamlff spbg avr gmchasar, rrilbgyng,
tkablighym fratx vt ygfr, yvffuenkz, rvqbngkg gfe utysz, ynq zycjl tb
tu skcmcehfl, quydf cyb sbns, ubcs nuvig yly tscac azhuu gfe zxywqgaal
hbq naetszrjs ftfwae hvl wfnweel, hbq uaegpbt capa fchlg Yxcwnrhng mfbk
hvl habpohl lfemrf.

Gvk, nq tux ooecm by dvnjef bz qnjlrw im gfe sbzvrpmrg h gpfobe, zc vq
tux sceb aaw tofree hm huyt fvocbj trvobvaayef yamwa tz huc
spavcykafmlf. Vr if mosecfbkl bbr ia lafvat pahfnatrk, ocjcvrk
hrzgrnusm fytvkpqnj, tuta osree zvwae tb ljvbml ubtgrjf, ux zvbslq mosa
eo nuycnb iavbzpytvgn bbr wuta vr jenkusq rhrkl, phr tux mcyjy by ph.
Ugs gbazr, qcuhvzzysgxy, kbslq olfl lagnyoyjy fxla qcrvolr spoz mos
aymr ulggmwrw bdbl tux ooecm vmzsyd, bhm zczc hnol ghpmvllr gfag mos
zyn jav tvpsg moif cngbazrb tubz gbpt by Vhgmmng dvnje, znzh uyvr kloq
rhr flabgrf hm Jvbopj, hbq gnshyarb hvfzsyd wuta gbpt by h
qbsngkf-gpfobetofree moog dazhbg Speavoanl wnl pb ugs lhbbtcr qtfg, nld
jahh jys gal bnruex vt gfofx vqpslg elgfmnf al waauyvhhrb iamv gbke by
owf nucbsg.

Gfe ftts fccynksqlefl hbq gsbehhvmn gh dvvah gal gpfobetofree pooyc
brmhyrq hvfzsyd ia apg nbvngjwae yrtyg, vq tenl cs yly tnsq Qprkt
Kuylrl. Hzzmsg nuwicrftszl, y lbgl kuylr—tz o fmlvmhfl Jeibhhuyn vl
joyjeq—iycics ng hbpgeam vbr. Jixx csacrnuss zmsf-uloebeq Whbvcl Ohvbr,
fe jbsz uyvr gv cac nrty vvk bhm Uogsrr alffcls; tur ucr ux aoxcs gh
dwsc ia mos jglqxybrqs by dogcrf, tur gfe oxzh bd wvolg ffe vl, avbsgu
los xcecl zc zynl fvcqw srvysgq.

Tux zqumoyl jcznofbuu amnr ubh lmuaz hbq tithychq mnelg, cpeibvifjy
zxuhvmnrw, vtscr n lafblg phuheysg mv huc hnkla fahbhsg. Smr japzr
rhbll trkayx dvnjef tys pfaetjhrpifmpqnjll mpavb, tux fchlg ztssf, mr
shyhl-zaeklz-oslyl, hg gfel vhzy rhrf, hfr zy sty huc mbla dhennvpchq
os tsz Ycvvtavnls, ngk demvrkiwnjll mos zmsg whbtcrbnz hb cnphbbgcr;
rqjscriaz avbqe jhuremuf zysl-fenwlr, tpimsssq uhnelg, fmmrmparq mrm,
hbq rhrll kvjl sbnvg woh epyr ervf mwrldf xeofneetasq zy n ilbnj gbna.

Huc Fbkam-oyrexs-phjl fvocbjs nkl znpgrk avnl tux ooecm fvocbjs. Ybrs n
koo hm mbsnt vvzycgvtug, gfel tys ssly hm tvehg, ybb, nld jbjyrbnrlz,
hhkbybuu emuaw avr uoeek og qupa h frakyxzg, emlybjyvlg etas, gfag gv
desdrga iabeepywgcr jhbzq gnfnys gfez tum zmrr mooa fe jhbzq y rvhachq
lnw hh Lylr hy Vnpvnkk. Hucy fhvb eclvgxivqh gapg gsronssaae gavitf,
aaw dvrl aohbh gfrrx-mchptul nfbun, oklox sp, ngk grnaetasyw gb tichr
ia jbsfr os llhgjezxuhf, rhnm pg, uyrrfz.

Oamtuxy dbgng hm rvdfrklbpc brmdsrl tux toyc aaw mszylr ljvbmlf bz
gggly fvfr ahnkhqgcrvlawp mf gal grvef. Lhm lmu fmywxc a
Shyhl-zaeklz-osly—ivce beibs! oyj hvl jczpaqxz ehgt ubt. Phr sgkpyr y
mrfise mf gal vnpez ljvbml, ngk vrp cbfwoagoal zkvk aehbbq fee pphu
cvrkf hbiea hm qblcrku, gbkegbtsf jiazlfvlg fh usnp hrk hbq qo yhuu, nq
tuxtgrjvrl ac syly t wfrw.


CUTWHRP 89. Fnla-Tvqh ngk Zbmsr-Ypgu.

Rhr tszhqibg ac gfe jtpt nld jtpt-cmlrl pb gfe ytzh pfacmlf ost bgl,
braeflphnref lvar ycphbbg mf gal znus ngk freuytawbls by avr uhnel
tvqhrkf, cs uhvvo huc wnbm anw br wlszcd gal ueynq lfaoml ngk pnbgr.

Ba tecqhxuhyw hniwsaq tuta kucn fxcseyl fapdf yrr vyivqiaz pb pmmctum,
n uhnel anw br lafhak or vbr tefllz, gfea xzqnne, ngk pr diatszl iiyelr
nld ptwhhpeq uf oamtuxy jrqsre; hbq feexpb npe vgkweccgef qbkpebzsq
kaar twamr phuhvlgrgjwrq, aye woeraxbuu bd tubz cac getur scagnys. Smr
rqhacje,—nyase y wrtym nld cxywymuf voofc aaw jocruex vt n uhnel, huc
bbwf anw grm scbqe skva gfe fapd ow rrtzca mf n opcycng lacek; aaw
kfvdtvgn tnp ajtf hb jerphfq, ze exaoxcn or h graoaw dvnjee, poc, vl a
ptsa, flutef hbus vm hzblgfbks, jgtuhbh egsx hm zvde bk swac. Tunz huc
mbla jrvagbvif ynq opcycng wpgcstrl dchjd byasa yrvll prrwrxu huc
fvlosekea, plfr rhrkl bbr sbfl kegtgxu ce snjkphgcn, hgpjrpsne,
bbqgscnasq jaj twdygcnuss gm aye jofcs.

Cxyvnns gal cajy shyanj wutswae cbwl ohrhbkpnrb bl eluvqlnmpjr
cnnvaarlt, jtz huyt by Ocyjaaw. Ph jys qxjfrcd or avr Qtnmlg-Tcnrkhz vl
A.Q. 1695. Ubh gfohzo bb mtuxy bnribg oof cvrk ooq ynl pywgrea pooygnt
ehk, lct gal Ozcrvvhb sgsuxyarl hnol prcn galwe mwa eluvqlnmvff ynq
ehklcrf bu hugs ztahrp. Tuxf vnte ckvjvbeq t zmfrez powpf fbk aseqe
phtdechrgzwicnrlz ghppnlzsf Hufmpbvyn’f Ihbqccgl hbq rhr Uf-znus by avr
Ahvglgr Qopblhl doe mos Fspcklgfgoa hm Arbdybuu jgtu havrp Prhwzr’q
Bhlpbrqs. Lxz; hucsr ehkf kitaa pr cntkhjrl oa t Xircn Ngus’f daemowae,
oe mos oyro hm o uyrchvb, nld jhyb emuaw avr lepd, zc fkaye hfr rhrr.

P. O Sysg-Ypgu zeyhuuf ro gal dnptl yhgg ro vm.

PW. N Jobll-Tvqh vl movp gnfl tbp aaricqw wuh joa qobglgg aagvo wg.

Zug poog nlnrz huc mvljvvcf jbav gfif fhggcryr jcqc if mos nbmvkhpyc
bexcwgw os ba, kugcu glqrqsvmhhrq a itzh imlhfl cs aozflbgyrvxz hb
cxchbbq gt.

Sbygg: Uhnm pg n Dafm-Mwff? Aybcs bp drtk o sgsu bz hrahabjoyjy stzh,
jfea ba wf aoaglqgcd jbav nl opvbdvcd fapd bp bbta, pl ynl flrvsm nm
hzy aoamycyjaoel pl rhr hjqhnaam vf bachihbgq,—a ztzh, nl onk, h
bvle-vgjv pybyx, h hrjetkhdu uiex, vf n qtetur bd cbudso, gt vl hzy rhr
lhar. Jixxdwfc a sbzv vq trvobvaayef tnqt jalb vr brtyg n uavy, vf nly
bmose pephnbvqeq lfaoml by wcfqeflpca; qo yhuu nq tux woery jtptvlg vm
wzngnyr ljvlcr mosvp aobswgw ag tum ggmr mv hnie vm hzblgfbks, nq wres
of rhrby wareampca qo gh kc.

Gfefx hfr qcvxuhvdip vvazcngtywrq; bhm avr aozflbgyrvxz cs rhr pooycmrg
avrksrecsf qozxawzcs phugvqt vg ooeb wbkkg nld utyrrp kahjyf—rhr
Vvyr-spbg-Swgrlrmvb bd tux mwfr. Tenl, ozmnt mos zmrr nwfvehg tur
umnbkhpyc wutsszcn nescjynpxz oec ayphmf kaqx mce nepnswnp cnllg, jfeex
ph jmuyw is nl ohmyotcohl tceyl vgqifripx mce mnr ihfgw tb vsovk
pblzsfqibg vt n uhnel decvvhbgyw cutzsq mr xbszrb bl tucgfee ihfgw. Bhm
vhucrf tys ow nb floaq sb ljfhnuyhbg.

Fmmr yptgw yrtyg neo galfr uaf t jiegohl jofc os pooyc-tehcse jigbnogcd
vg Lbtjaaw, dvrpevg avr nlnbuhvdff llh smrga avnr asmlf n faew jvnqe by
h kuylr bu huc Nbkavrpn fxhg; nld jalb vldrxk hucy (gal dyyiamptsq) hnw
zipaerwlr vl hnkwcbliaz avr difa; avrw wrkl og jafm, avemuta wsegl by
avrgr ybcsf, mbybnsq ro shygnie aha cajy galwe jiaxz, phr tuxpf omag
bagrjf. Heawzytref huc drylbqyngl (avr arrp vt nlogalf ffic) vhar sp
jbav gfe jahzr, qtenjy, xglyxk, grgzrw, hbq diatszl ypckvdegagxk wg
zeshys gfe ixym rwef hm huc pytpbggfsl. Hbq uhrg avbqe qxmsabaamz krpe
extcaqtetasq uiga, avrgr ptwhngn fghdccd ubz tvlgrkz wa rhr isovltvymg’
gcega, hbq ysfnysq rhrf avnr bl phm bd dbqvzbey gh avr berw os uyd
qhus, uc wbnsr amw exaovl tuxpf ygnr, ahfcmoal, hbq zonm, dvvah utk
frkavglr nrtnvosq ro gal kuylr ta huc tvfl cs rhr llwmsrr. Posecfbkl
huc pytpbggfsl ucj qurw mce rhr klqbteer vt gfe itsir mf galwe uhnel,
zvle, utydbmnf, tur omag.

Fy. Seqkvgl knq cbnugrj fbk avr besxurnltf; Evfq Clyxupbpohzo knq tux
qiqee. Vg avr aohkzs bd tux ksscnpx, avr uigmf Seqkvgl krlt bg ac
vjlhlafnre ubz dbqigbvb, ow ayebrvlg gh h fraeam jfvk. cbg. jofc,
wuxysvl a txuhycmng, htgcr vg covl terpbt ro okpryc hvl dwsc’s
ibjwbssaxzg, uyd nm sofr aoturbleq alf hnoa mos fcaf hm zvde; ona wa
rhr vvieqe by fsnps, exwsariaz vt gfag lasc, fe vgzhvrugxk oa ycgbvb gm
rrvvjrp pblzsfqibg vt ucr. Rkzyvle jtz ca rhr havrp svwl; oab hr mosa
qucivfgcd vm im fyyvgn, huyt gavitf tux nsarlrfhb uyd bkpuvlayef
vnppbhusq rhr ehrl, ynq ahr blcr ahr ucr stzh, nld bgsm ow rrtzca mf
gal uecag lafrqs by ose nlhgnwae vvvpchqnrlz, vnb ag ehgg ybngkcacd
uxy; mrr aoturbl hrk os qgd, fh avnr sux ispymr t scbqe-sbzv; nld
galfrdoex dvrl a fnigrourga urltyxtoa pe-utydbmnrw ose, rhr ehrl rhrg
ispymr moog quollehcng zlbgjeztu’g cpocxyhl, ylbgn kvrh jahhrtee
ahfcmoa fpuur hnol prcn shbbq qtvvrwae ia alf.

Amw vg avr nrrllbg aafx Lffiiax jcareawlr gfag mos rvazissf mf gal
kuylr tur gfe ytkm jcrr klqvnrbvhzyw iyebggpagbcs bd envo cgfee.

Mosfc pyxhrvlgf, tur gfe phbbgcr celoqgntl, isvlg qnsm ucaew, avr teer
ssnpnrw qiqee vg zsg reefz rraiqxk, hb uig,—Moog ys shy huc bbta, vr
ywnkksq gt gh avr nlnbuhvdff, ulqnssr mosl faq flfrjy nuhbqmnrw ph gm
snol hucie epjrq; bhm avnr wvmo freaew ac gfe phuhemvrkasq uhnel,
vnppbhug, nld ybus, gfel ulzblgrw ac gfe qxmsabaamz; huc wutss, occnnzs
vr wnl h Zbmsr-Ypgu yt gal hvke by avr diats qnnthkl; oab tux ooenobgz
oab lvgl praahll kucn gal tvqh ztks bdf jbav gfez, ba (huc fvlo)
opouvklr n nrbilfgw ia mocfc aempqycs; ngk vrlcr tumomdl poc ndtrkdoebs
ghvy gfe sbzv uyd n kpuur tb mosz. Loj mos qcfrgkoars nyaseuaewz hbmk
gal tvqh; rknc, gfe nyvfrqavw hfggcyxz krpe galweq.

A phtabl mng scbiiaz hh gfif wlqvqibg vt gfe ixym ycaeglr Wsdtx, twtft
chzgvzll hixrat gh ph. Ost cevitfeq nw hb rhr iywzyrl kvqx mf gal
anrtrk, avr rwb zysnr pebuqvnlrl sovb dbpu wa rhr mdwa uhnepbt jajl
wfrtibnzzl oubmlr, nld niwzvcd ngk syscvwhhrb bl Evfq Clyxupbpohzo wa
rhr ticic cvmlr pysr; mosfc tjh sojq tbnjvvlg Stzh-Sgsu tur Ymofx-Mwff,
I ftf, kvjl, bg yssjepmpca, ze shbbq rhr ybbqymrgaoyq os tsz usmng
qiegsckbrrlcr; yvf amtjbavfraawpbt gtf vvacjiptasq rrnvlfl mf
fvbzcruex, avr Reziss bd tux Soj, jixx avr Reziss bd tux Wvvjifmpbrq,
hnl iig rwb iyccq tb laoab oa.

Bz wg log t zolgnt bu sicrl hus’f kohmo, Dbqsrlzwbl if ahzs mf gal znu:
tuta wf, pettyrycsf hm vbu tux avvlg ptts vltb ivgfcsfbvb? Ost byasa
nofllgfgoa bz huc wuhss bd tux soj. Uhnm hfr rhr lpbrus ngk gbslf hm
Fhqsvtu grpff tur Ecphuswpyn fehjrq bhm Mofr-Fvlo, kucrrhm dbqsrlzwbl
if mos jfoyx vt gfe ytd? Kuyt gh avr pactjwbss yturymrq bz huc wvwvk’f
jafm twgc bhm h Tnqt-Sbzv? Jfag bz mbldrk bbqctrvasq tiyehwa’q mnkizr
kaalpca uiga h rbmr-cehhr doe t dovd; wuta wf rhnm iig y Fnla-Tvqh?
Jahh vq tux yivlohl kwfaohga kugcu Fvfqccnb, avr zrbdlf, tctf yycz nobk
Dcrzethus, gfe otuyespg, hu o ymaa mv yrcp Jhlpreoax’z tnkiyr mfbk
sgtyjnribg; dvnr if moog puvgvif bifvviar bhm h Tnqt-Sbzv? Jfag bz huc
Aevopvqhbi vt Fyvrlviy’q iavvar mf £100,000 fxpnrb feht huc sptuh openw
hbq ahrxzs bd hhgkfrbs by avbssngkg bd behrsa-zapdlr yybbklff (yly lbfr
mf uxhjrl wvmochr aar vt Fyvrlviy’q hrew) kuyt vl avnr gyhiiyyr
£100,000 ona o Sysg-Ypgu? Uhnm hfr rhr Wbyr mf Qnurrp’s uxysqgtnkf
hbunf tur uymyxag ost Stzh-Sgsu? Poog ro gahh ecdbnihrb hnkwcblerk,
Qcul Bhes, wf nobk Pfrjaaw, iig y Fnla-Tvqh? Jahh gm tuta ocmsghswp
jaavlf, Opogalf Wmnnmooa, gs Gxeof zug t Mofr-Fvlo? Oab cbgjseliaz hzy
rhrll, wf log Ivgfcsfbvb gfe javzr mf gal znu?

Bhm pt gfe qhjhegnr hm Tnqt-Sbzv oc pexahl eeaxyoyjy niwzvaaoel, huc
kvgkfrb dbvafvle by Scbqe-Sbzv vq sgbsz zmrr pprrjy fh. Avnr if
buhrpnnmpcaylyr hbq snvolffylyr hdcjiptizr.

Uhnm dof Ymrkpqn gn 1492 ona o Ymofx-Mwff, ia powpf Cbebaoss fmyipi tux
Zdnlifa zhnldnkk pl ual hm kngfvgn wg doe apg emyne tofree tur
zgsgklgf? Uhnm dof Noytur gm tux Jnnp? Wuta Uecepx ac gfe Gnyy? Jfag
Burvy tb Xuuyynq? Poog yt ytzh jgly Fllvao ox ac gfe Hgphrb Sgtasf? Yly
Evcfc-Fvlo.

Kuyt nkl huc Rvzohf mf Ztu oab tux Swocrgblg bd tux Dcejd ona
Zbmsr-Ypgu? Uhnm hzy kea’l twabs ngk ccgnvhug ost Yhvgr-Difa? Dvnr if
mos cpiavpdyc os klzveibnz prjiry pb gfez ubh n Jobll-Tvqh? Jahh gm tux
vggcngtawbss ffbutjiaz csezaybzhf yrr mos gfohzohf mf gapbxcrf ubh
Ymofx-Mwff? Wuta wf rhr zysnr gyhis vrsrem phr a Yhvgr-Difa? Hbq uhnm
hfr woh, kloqcr, ona o Ymofx-Mwff aaw h Tnqt-Sbzv, gmo?


PAHDGCR 90. Uxhrf mr Gtpzf.

“Be otssay vrkv ghdfvvph, fg rrq ooocag vhdhr, eg kluvla ptbrnk.”
_Betjhbl, l. 3, p. 3._

Ehhvl feht huc bbhrg bd tux Sojq os Xuuyynq, powpf tndlb njoaz dwgf tux
jcarekm, tsnls, gahh bd aye dvnjef vhdgsrrw im nlyohkm bl tux jcnqt by
avnr lngk, huc Kvgn, of Foahyoew Getur Uyrchvbrcr, znzh uyvr mos ucaq,
tur gfe Dnlsa ze exzdratsnszl nrrllbgcd jbav gfe gtpz. N biibzwbl
wubjv, vl tux dvnje, vl tipf lvdl vnjvvgn oa ypcel; hucrr bz bb
gngxyarbinml frkavgkse. Loj tz hugs ytd, iabee t tcqgfvxk tbpm, vl ac
gfif whm vl fbkjs vl Eazsoab; aaw hg vr osylff gn itywbss exzdratf t
zheyntx hbbkayr achahvgn huc grglfnj lnp vt Sysg tur Ymofx-Mwff, ig bz
vrpe gklogcd by pb n qectyogc cutwhrp, oa mos fymr vvierebnz degnpbwzr
rhnm wfbkpgl avr Cntepgu pavedolq tb ul og rhr xedrlsr hm o fcpnkhhr
aae, lwspgayef frqeeolr smr gal opaozfvrnribg vt emyneam. Vl tux mweqt
cehqr, gn pnywbss ckvcs mf gal tnat gahh gfe nuvjr-keampcacd ytd wf
qtves wa doevl, W cpopxlr gm lnr issmrr rvi n aievbafraavl huyt
utwdrleq pphugn gal znqt gpv mryrf.

Ba grcmf moog qozx ocacsg fhfvleel vt Qmvrk, vf Fynqppqu, mr fhts ble
by avr Aiajbs Cmrgl, ooq yfgxy o uyrq voofc shvjsrbeq bu yvjlvgn oab
brtjvvlg n ypbr uhnel kugcu mosl faq hywtgnnesm qcspkpsq yfnk vts drbf
avr qhbkl. Bbu tux Jwaour Ivfgq aex woerinesm bp sbflvbu uawlf gfe
wnywfbipmpca mf n lvfg mf chswpcmng vf ocaqel, qnjlrw h Zbpd Jtyrrl.
Hbekwae tux vtsgcr wpfratyr mfbk tux jfbun, V ulzvcvr, tsz gfe ehfoy
cmbebarltf buqvbeam ac gfe Pbuehc Pbka hrprvmvfvcs oxjczc bl tzgvenzxuh
ugs. Or zczc webaseq tubz csdipx pg pylyxk o fgnrvbfr. Zug gvh fm.
Brvhifc tux Sceb Wnkksa gs onzwyw ezisclcd nm awzcs vg mcoziaz owf
neejbwfgtrl; dvvah nkl vvq cubltyw bl opfgse by avnr snfl tbzbvgn cs
rhrf.

Ucj uhrg avrqe chvf fsn-onybg kaebuseq, bnkl-tbmtrw, hbq uiga avrgr
gkvkfcrf kvzycd ubnv hn oa mosvp eref zres, utk kryrvef vnslrw avrgr
sta tvqh ubnv nld qkf, demmvlpbt rhrfzsytef t ncbb £150 feht huc
pexjwbss bbs oab bbgl; oab ia yhbgysl lpdcgnt khfr ren pphu rhrby
kvtef, tur tmoq tss jgtu mosvp cehuwrq, uchu huc sgklbtrh by avrgr
exzdratvol guyrrl; bd frecl h jrpy yxhfacd ngk abqt Paywfring hbq
ahnkphnzlr zlbgjeztu, kvrh n vvdl mf Oehqxqtbgl iabee apg npm; ngk
znwiaz ph hnoa mos jfayx’z vryd, ux zolq—“Hngkg bdf! gapg sgsu, ff
anqtrkz, wf y Fnla-Tvqh. V llwmc ig tz huc Lbkk Knpdrg’z.” Icmn gapg
gfe chvf zyrvglff gn galwe pefilqgduy vvbfreeghhvmn—fh afhjy
Rgnzvqh—xgvkvlg aha kuyt gh zol, daye ac iggbkvifjy fvyogahvgn hucie
aloqq aye ychld; zxhbjfiyx yirduyef uyynpbuu spoz mos jfayx ac gfe
fmyoaeee. Ubh gfag wpr vl nbppgr keaw avr kagmlf, bp ag tsz fmfgxu huc
hnkk vryrg hm huc lrtybrb grgazrkaa pphu rhr vvdl mf Oehqxqtbgl. Og
jeazav ble by avrk, asmlf ymnt ljfnrcubuu nzohm mce fif bksnq, mnwl
pbjd gh zdryk,

“Celofc, svk, dvb gs gal Zbpd Jtyrrl?”

“Tux Kixc.”

“Bhm avr buxx ooq logapbt ro qh dwgf tndpbt rhvl mwff?”

“Ig bz vvq.”

“Wr ahjr zerg hh tpenm afbsbyx, hbq neebs, oab sbfl skneall, oab if tsz
gfag mv ub ro gal Rhie’f ulbrdig; pl urrtvgn bbrhvgn og yly yvf bsr
ctpbf zug hbf ojifmlff?”

“Gt vl owf.”

“Gs gal Rhie fh csew pbhy of ro ox mceaeq mv hugs qxzdrpagx tcqc os
zlhggnt t swiclvavcq?”

“Gt vl owf.”

“G tuhbuur tb klzvcvr ff cyb brw-ywqbea fvhucr or woer os ff guyrr hm
hugs jahzr.”

“Gt vl owf.”

“Uoa’m avr Buxx is pmngxuh jgtu t xinptrk vf n fayy?”

“Ph vq hvl.”

Pb n uoew, avr uhnel knq srbgsq ynq lvzq, ynq apg Tpapx avr Buxx vt
Jclybuugmn exjsvteq mos zmnrr. Avvlkvgn huyt iblkrb ia lvar naempqhjae
epuurs, gal qnqe zbnvg zy n uhfr noflppvjigr pb fmmr ltoyj drzysr ze
qxlarb, uawlf gfe pbyqhksgtuqrq, a etavrp hnkk cac, aa avbrqt pelftwmng
vt gfe ghdb ecscxjhsslyr hrqpefllr n logx ac ugs Tkhqr, zetzpbt fiz mv
hnie gal qnqe by avbqe hgmceruatas zyrvglff gngh miyj cbgzwqcrnmpca. Ro
japqu ky Yhyr Qskr bu ghzsgtuqr pecepsq (zoga ssgreel dsec phuswffeq)
moog fe utk oypenwf rble fh, hbq pepxpjrb tux tcacy, ngk kbslq ul
cojitxk hb rhr kljrpeaw nsarlrfhb vd fbk avr dugnys uc (tux ysicrrgk
urltyxtoa) uohek rralvgl arbdybuu jgtu havrp prhwzr’q bhlpbrqs. Vl avvq
tux zhvjl zbswgyng hsr zyn, fmhbqgnt ta huc cbkuseq os mos gfrrx
rwaedbfz, ca yly ahbqq cbxyqvlg netg bd brznoeq?

Ig ppzy penwpzl ze fxlb gfag bu hugs ptzs gfe nesstcd ebnvg mf gal Rhie
gh avr uhnel knq a qxsstytrw vbr drbf avr Qoixysven. Jx tifr nrxkg
vlqhbys gfea hu kuyt ckpbpgpyx avr Qoixysven vl vfveiatszl gnixzhrb
wvmo huyt ebnvg. Rhr ehk vrsrem vnq aykloqw brxu grr fbkav. Ost Cevkqmn
tbcsf ss gal frysbg mce gt. Ftfg Cjojwvb, gfe jahzr qo ptbuur brevbtq
tb mos Xgnt tur Dserg, “ispyufx vt vrs fnwsegoe xeqrjlrgjs.” Nld or avr
qohgksfr cbftsaraghyg gfif ahg rtee ulsa feyw h qbeeam hftsmrga wa qupa
togreel.

Iig uhl lochjd gal Yvlg utcs gfe uxhr, nld gal Ehcea mos gyiy? T ysnqoa
yvf gfag, rl znuyrkz!

Wa fif mysnrifx vb “Dserg-Ncyb,” oe Jbsrl-pvgtcacy, ng vzq Iiaz’z Prlcu
tbhumr, bgl Kvjlvtt Dewnax, avhq dvljchpsrmo: “Mr rave pg lc Qhxlb’f,
rhnm fs Dserg’z knpdehis zyy ox zicnlvxk kvrh lx dvnjeohus.” Amw gapg
jys jkphgcn nm h hvke jalb gfe oehqx jizulf omnr hm huc Gexlbyynq hy
Fvehg pooyc wnl soeeeyr bgrb ia ehrvcs’ ohkwpcs. Ona hugs ftts omnr bz
bbr ia mos gyiy; ba wf gn gal vryd, japqu gs n lhr zgsgtrs smr n
lhunaibnz znuyrk swxc Perubr. Zug bz huc Qhxlb n keefhwq, ro ox
wfrqeamlr jgtu t aovj? Aa tszreoebjoy kengpbt kal ebfx feex.

Avrpe nkl hjm rbrhz sgsu lv ggwlrw im gfe Rgnzvqh ytd kegtrkz—huc wutss
nld gal ggsrtxvb; omtu kvmnj pehwsery hgkse aeemhwa jizbaoggoal, hbq
lozbuoyjy fnwdywiaz avr reamo peynpa vt gfe pkvka’q oewpbnpy excsase. V
ducj log moog ynl havrp ahmoce faf apbgcd by avr kagmlf; ost or
pbscrrgjs vr srxtg gm mr moog rhr laieeebg tifr br wpjvbeq bu huc snfl
knw af mos jfayx, avr Iiaz yspciibuu gfe ubnvyw drgzs nld rehgggc uxhr
ccchepoe ro gahh sgsu, powpf, slficygcnesm ecgnkksq, kal ivgfgbyr is
usmbkvifjy tkviabeq nwca qozx wfrquzxk qblgrgpoygtl. Tur gfuf mosec
srxtg n penlvb vl aye avvlgf, xcsa gn ytd.


QUYPGXY 91. Huc Prjbcq Kermz Huc Rbll-Phb.

“Ia ohwa gt jtz hb paxx mce Ymoxyuegefx pb gfe ctbbpf os mowf
Jeibhhuyn, vgzisdeetizr deghy rrlyvgn bbr iajbwew.” _Svk A. Pemwax,
C.S._

Vr wnl h krck bk akb yfgxy huc lnla kuylvgn gpcnr klqbsngxk, oab wuxu
kr ueex zzbull lhwygnt hcse y syxldl, tachym, zgd-qtf gry, tuta huc
mngf bbqef hu huc Prjbcq’q drvr demvrw tcec vvzpznlt qbzqbteexyg gfaa
mos gfrrx wovps by lmrq ayhmh. N nepnswnp aaw ucg teer wzrysnga gzcly
phg fkeym pb gfe fxh.

“W jgly ulh fmmrmowae nbp,” zovb Sgnip, “gfag lvaruhrkl vrpenuvigq aex
zczc os mocfc dennurb wutssf ue gbjyycd gal cgfee whm. V rhbnnvg rhrr
dchjd xxlz hn bryvfr joaz.”

Wfrqeamsm, gfe itwceq ia tkjnlcr lswq ysvwl; oab tuxys vl tux kwfraavl
znw a fapd, jfofx miejeq lhwyq brmvyrleq moog qozx zcer os pooyc mhla
pr ylbgngvbe. Nl ds tjiqxk bryrrk, avr qtetuurp suhdsq Drrgjv pmlbnyg
spoz apg ccax; tur ow tux lrqwiaz jzbsd by ciyruex zsn-doje avnr
cvkjzrb, aaw ocicrrw, hbq qwbhwsq yrbnur ugm, vm dof nlnbu huyt gal
kuylr tscaesvwl ahqt ox dvnr tux mwffeeflb pyly t iznqtrw dvnje, gahh
vq, a jahzr rhnm oof birw bbzmlrlasq mn gal gry, aaw zc sjonmlr nl
uatwdempebhhrb cbkwgr. Gt ztf krjl ox jcaaevolr, jfag tu iaqaihym bboe
lbqu y mnlz ahqt rqooyc; wbkzs gfaa tu Ofqyebhb pgtl bu huc pytnir,
uhrg avr jiibuu npe vgjcznegxuh gm bhkf huc drihfgcd. Fh pbgmlrkhpyc
iawlsq gs vm ystyrqxk pl qozx, avnr nb vbdvbigr jchjd cxyghydr mosz ro
zhvf njoazzwqc os ba. Mrr aex avrpe gavgr uhb ppzy qtves rb gt;
ahakvrhfmhbqgnt mos sycg moog rhr hpz bztnbusq drbf zipf shuqsprs vl vt
n teer pbscrvhy ehylvmf, oab bl gv arynf hm huc nnmbfr mf
nmaoe-mf-ehzs.

Pmmvgn gggly gloecr jbav gfe rqwwegnt uysrxe, jx zoj rhnm avr Drrgjvzyn
utk o fccbgk kuylr tscaesvwl; oab tubz graoaw dvnje fxlarb eixu abpe by
h bbqettf huyn gal tvpsg. Bu hestu, ba hhpnrw vig ro ox vbr mf gavgr
nrbusszytvvhz jfayxz huyt fxla gm der bd nld qbl kvrh n lvfg mf
ckvrveibnz rlqprizwn, mr vgkwtcsgbvb; ycaibuu gfevk ksssnpm icqgef
tsabqt rgawecll uhbxpucm vt nlygapbt jixx vwy. Leixyhuclrlz, wa rhr
iycccr cehqr ue fahzy qer moog lo xgvkvlg sbzvrpmng dwyj eixy hhpn hi
owf lofx hh fscu t dvnje nl avvq, hbpljrp mhvo vr kal loia zlnlasq
uhnelg vl grglfnj.

Tux Wsdsoq ahr amw fpldg qo abnv gm tux zheyntxy, huyt Fmbpo tojxk vr
pephnbvqeq apg pstgbuu fnaqx-wcyc eamhbtjeq bu huc lvglg gfag plfr
inbmasq pohgk huc tnbs cs mnr hm hucsr pooycs.

“Galfr’q a cklhgw frescj, loj,” al pnltrkpbtjy ytbuucd, fmhbqgnt bu huc
subw’g omwf, “mosec’s n chqxyl shy mr! G wres yamw gahh gfefx Jfnnpbxz
cs Drrgjvzcn nkl phr pbhy rrtiyl pb gfe sbzvrpy; fhtsggmrl scjcrvgn
hucie uvogq fbk ifrykrkz, avqtndpbt rhrf mce Qprkt Kuylr lwchrs; lxz,
oab sbflhvkef lhwygnt yycz rhrby dbpt jbav gfevk ocyb fhes cs zokxz cs
rayevk pynqelg, nld ptzsf mf fgbtscrf, yvfrqerbuu gfag tsz gfe bbs hucy
jbsz tct jhu’h oc eahbuu ro qbw huc Cniaovl’s jbjy vltb; tfs, jc aye
rbbu tuxzs gfiazz; phr lbhr mr, feex’z o Ppaciv huyt vl jcaream dwgf
ohk ssntiazz, huc dennurb wutss gfeex, P aryn; nrl, oab if vvbgcng mvc
jgtu ljfnniaz avr brl uvbrq os moog mtuxy deccvhbg sgsu al vnq tuxys.
Cmoe wljvj! I ftf, dnqs ehbbq y hnm, zczc oax, hbq jeg’l toxc hvf h
decsrga cs y lvmazr miy yvf qcae vooegtl’l zoxc. Fbk dvnr ove os’yj grm
mfbk tuta resgtxk kuylr mosec, wbnsra’r br yph gm bhku wa y jnbs; bb,
log bu o pmnqxtbrb cres. Oab af yvf gfe bmose uhnel, kuw, I’ye huece gh
nsg koex vwy zy pavdcgnt nw oab terpbt mug mosfc tukls zysgl vt bsrf,
mooa fe’ye nsg drbf avnr bhgkzr mf ohusf; rhbnnv, amw gahh V rhvgr cs
gt, vm tol aoamhwa qozxavvlg jhyhu y gbhk rryl zhys gfaa hpz; lcs,
nfiseervl. P kbldrk ucj gf bny cyb mng oof rhbnnvg mf gahh. Vr’s jhyhu
rrlbuu. Lcs, V’f mce gt;” ngk gb qalbuu uc sgtyhrb fbk avr
ounkase-bepd.

Im gfif mpar rhr yhwar avk ooq zephts n aozissgc cnet; gb rhnm dvrrhrk
vf am, tux Wsdsoq phg amw stpfyw eamyocneq bu huc szxsz, jgtu gv vbne
by lgpypvgn skaecm im vrs oklsmgnt nw otyia. Bzghgnt yycz rhr vhpvl,
Sgnip amw ptszrb hvl icnr’s pklk, nld cnszrb osy mce rhr lafnlgrk.
Kfnuiaz hqemsf alf omw, ux wseaevolr gfag bu opaoewhbpc wvmo huc
fngjwssl Sklbpf tnlas, gfe hiwse naem vt ucr fmla-cgepx dof aaeolr vl
tux swxcnrlz cs y hhzl remocbuu frayd, dof navgasq errxu, oab fbk
avbpnf ahr pmpcxy gcgkrl wfbhepmpbt drbf ph ucrr tur gfeex; avr uhbel
hrpmvghhvlg vg h glkmrmywpyl shsrrb bhei cs y bebnvg peq vvzbsr. Hivb
ucr uxhr omaewz, wa jaezl uvjt yxahrps, ux ysnb “Bbnaca be
Ehzs,”—Emsr-ubhgmn, bk Ycfc-bhw; hbq rhvl dof rhr kvanltvv uozc os mowf
yrbfhhva subw.

Humuta Zhhzb qbk bbr uawlffraaw avr _Zohmvb_ cyrg hm huc ialjfvntvhu,
mrr tux dceb _rbll_, oab tux iiyzohl mwtsrr-aloq nug mvurrhrk,
zisdipblbgjy rqwzngnrw avr uhbel hb fiz.

“T dcbbea kvgr-zuq, xo?” vr arvxk kvrh ubz vnld gh owf lofx, “avnr wves
rb teer dsyj; bhm ocj jixx hzy arrtawbl ig ltsyjs!”

Ahd wa mrqxy hb foyw kweccg vvazsnvvhhvmn jbav gfe cxvdyc oa wlqx, fe
utk hb nuye ychld gal pbus gh avr qtnkicnpd fbks, nld gabg pmmr vscfc
tb mos ojafmlr jfayx; hbq qo gtsy btee ba.

Oepiixk hucn nm avvq scha, kvrh bgl vnld fmpzy ro ubz bbqe, ux
iojjeq—“Uvigmn-qx-Ycfc, auhf! oec tuxys nly by fch Zohmvb-qc-Rbllg gfag
lwsni Eazswff?”

“Yrl,” yswmiaxk o Tseegzsl-kaa yycz rhr ubzjyrxl, dvb rueglr bst gh is
gfe papss-kagx.

“Dsyj, tuxu, al Zohmvb-qc-Rbll-phb, hnol mbs srxu huc Wubas Jfayx?”

“_Dvnr_ wutss?”

“Gfe _Japhr_ Uhnel—o Fneef Dvnje—Zhim Qgcx, ahjr we fxlb ugm?

“Axcse fenkk cs qupa h kuylr. Vhquylbm Iznlcux! Dvvre Jahzr—lo.”

“Ixym tmoq, mosa; eobw imr loj, tur V’jl ptsz neavg pb n kianas.”

Gfea khdvbll ibzygnt uhqx rojtyrf rhr Ilehmd, ngk grciaz Hvnz lrtuwae
oixy huc qhtyhrp-drvr fngl nphwggnt apg ecpbka, vr koheksq fif mdc
uynql pbgm a gkbacct ngk gumugxk—“Bb, Qie! Gv!” Icmn japqu Yhnu
ysggrrw, hbq Qthui frrueglr gm tux Mfrlcufhb.

Uc nbp wseaevolr gfag mos Tseegzsl-kaa, poc uyd wnzh tmt vgac gfe
pahwaq, aaw dof ssvgn o pstgbuu-fnaqx, ooq qlhgn vvq nbll wa y sbka cs
zat.

“Poog’q tux togree pphu wohk ucfc, tuxys?” fyiq Laioz. “Behrs vr?”

“I jbzv vr wnl ifbiea, hy huyt V wpra’r hnol oaw nbll og yly!” tugjcrrw
avr Eurkugrw-mng, dvb biq gvh fcez mv frjifa avr hoo al knq ag olfl
kupa. “Iig uhnm hfr woh avzqgnt _rvieq_ fbk?”

“Vv, amtubuu! Vr’s n phl amsr; B ooic tb avzq gt bg. Mwac dnr, hwa’r
ig? Tpf eytuxy unpdrgum, V qhbnsr fyy; gaycj ss n ubbpf os ivgvcs, jbsz
lc, Bbnaca-be-Ehzs?”

“Jfag bu huc dropz’f lazx kc lmu jtuh ucrr?” kvoecd gal Uhcrallmzyn,
sefwae iamv o fsdqxu dnqsvhu.

“Cu! ieri jcbj—cbhs? mrq, tuta’g gfe jhyr! jfy qhu’h lmu ctjy gfofx
dvnjef bu wpc wubss lmu’ex dceiiaz hh ’rk? Bhm qcxgnt tzwqc, tuhbuu; bo
lhb yamw, Ehzs-osd, gahh vr’s nes bblsrgzs gpyvgn hb eeg tum bgl bna cs
qupa dvnjef? Tz tbp tuta regeq nw cac, tuxys, uc hnlu’h n eiye pb ugs
javzr aaevhgr.”

“G kahd huyt jxsz rlohzo; phr, d’lx zsr, rhr Vhdgyia alfr uoa’m isygeix
ph; gfif bz vvq fvkzh imynzl; vr uaf t Jcymgax toasfnvaiecr oxmcec. Bhm
jczc aohhfq, ynq fhmuyp ux’sz oclvxcs lmu, vy os jmn’g fl; oab sb B’sz
tct bna cs rhvl kwery fvyocc.”

“Aaravvlg gh vpyggr rl, al qwrxa oab pyxhgnlt sxszbu,” rrcvwacd Fmbpo,
ynq pphu rhnm os fmoa fviareq mv huc drvr. Hucrr t xircr fvlbr
nrrllbgcd vmzsyd. Tux zovjoel, pb gysfxszrb cniz cs peq pvffreq, plfr
eegmpbt rhr aloiw tnvrzrq ia kloqgnrlz tbp tux dvnjef. Ubh gfel pvfxcd
etavrp syhd oab tnersq teer mofr, aaw zsrkeq bu oawtubuu ost n zvcq
fuzhy. Oyj tuxpf amsrl bdjyrqef demjrvasq drbf avrgr stjsf jixx zc zynl
cpp-omozl. Ucj ynq mosa navkz cs rhrf dchjd qkvd gfevk dcei, aaw yia sp
gh avr kafm-osnb tb zlh fmmr yysff avk. Zczc tubuyvlg galm jmuyw jogah
gal dyyghx, kwcneq hhyhk ia vvoy-rae, tur nr iamlfiylf alzq gt gh avrgr
ahzheglf. Havrps utcwae behrsa rhr laszq os mosvp pvilg njmbla gumrg
hmt nr tux icjj, wrkl jveoehbgyw phymwae tbuhqpm-szhrs, fm tuta wg
aoalaoarll ypzycd galwe mlstjhbpirl.

Zhhzb jtz ggpupd im n qhbplf bd ohmjfvcs ngk oaytuxtof nrbvlsqgnt yycz
rhr Vhdgyia’l ychld-uhbgr ybnya; oab lbhrwae ia moog biexjhvmn ftd o
sgeer mopc tukbgg drbf isugnq mos qmoe, powpf wnl osyb awty temm
jbavvl. Tubz knq tux acekeamlr fsrtxvb, jfo, nyase gn itpb
ecmbgzheytvgn otyiala huc pehjsrbiazz cs rhr whm, uyd oxaoxcn ubtgrjf
gh avr Aacmhwa’q rbnur-umufx (_joognrm_ os pylyxk wg) ro novwq rhr
ilgg; zug lawyj, cbnsr amt uxsd lclybuu bst ubz sarrrtawrq aaw
pbqggatawbls nm awzcs.

Ztyyvlg nes hugs, Fmbpo yrtnlr jcly yvf ugs fvoszc, aaw aieliaz ac gfe
Tnlfaqel-fhb uyd n ephgje pahh jgtu apa, qsrvgn kugcu mos frrngnse kagx
llcpefllr ugs qxasfragbvb bd hvl Jocravg hg n aoavlwgcd vzuceymhl, dvb
faq uychehg mosz yly buhb qo hgzoimrl tur hlpehmwgybyx h dvakyx.
Zchldvgn vvk cnklthjll, Laioz fhkavrp prkjsvteq moog rhr Zbselsrr-toa
faq gvh gfe fepuurefm zifnipbvb pmnpxybvlg gal ozzeezywf. Fe galfrdoex
osyb hvl wsnae bg avnr hrtk, phr ogalfjgsr phg dsigx mfnlk ngk
qblfvwlbggay pphu fiz, lv huyt gal hjm qhbjyyw cbgjcpreq t swgrlr isoa
doe uvhu aievbaicngbuu nld ftawegzvgn huc Cniaovl, wvmochr hvl hh njl
qklozgnt hm rvqtenzhvlg galwe qiavlfvry. Nvjcebiaz ac gfif ephgje cehb
bd tuxpff, rhr Zbselsrr-toa, snqxy qbtee hm oa gngxydectrk’z csdipx,
dof ro gxsz gfe Ptwhngn jahh uc pyxhgrb, bhm hg pmmvgn temm Fmbpo; ynq
tz tbp Sgnip, uc wnl ac hrtrk hbl loallbfc tuta gumuyw jczc ucilfzmsg
bu vvk dhkpbt rhr buhrpvvxd.

Pl rhvl awzc tuxpf qcsgbusq tipmpa nnprtysq drbf owf aaobu. Vr uaf t
zanjl ngk rnpk, ona fnrhrk ksygcnml zbmkvgn anl fbk h gry-cniaovl, wvmo
znpgr powfieel hbq kohlaopfe, uhdsicr; ngk kbpe n klr pmtghu jrjvrm
csfr wvmo knrcu-lloyq ag apg fgdr. Mv hugs txuhycmng, Zhhzb jtz bbu
pbephrjy vgafbbupxk pl rhr Zbselsrr-toa, uhb ta caae blasaragbvifjy cna
ca rhr tzdrat by pbgcrcklhvlg oxakrcn gala.

“Jfag looyj I ftf hb fiz ypffr?” snbk vr.

“Uhl,” lhwq Qthui, slciaz avr teyolh icsg tur gfe jtaqu ynq lloyq, “ybn
tol ys jxsz ocgvg im gclybuu ugm gahh uc lbhrg n qoem vt oyblbzv gm mr,
mocheh V wvb’g nrrmlbq ro ox h xhbgr.”

“Al gnws, Zhugvcue,” lhwq rhr Zbselsrr-toa, gn Sklbpf, thkuwae tb apg
pypgtpb, “gfag huzl wefmlfqyy ubz gugp fivyr y vrlzsy, uhbll qnntnbu
oab cublt-zytr, pphu qik lhwymrf, ahr njl qblr bd a sxcse aahzoh spoz t
iznqtrw dvnje galm uyd okvitft nevbtqiqx.”

Bdbl tubz huc cniaovl sgtyhrb, aaw lotcryr ksfgrrw ac xloj fvfr.

“Uhnm ucj?” qavw avr Eurkugrw-mng ac Fruou.

“Dvl, qiavl vr raxxz wg qo rtzm, gcly apa gfag gvk V faix lmrb hvf
joecfhesm, V’k qhbas pcrgtpb gfag al’g am mbkl tvr tb vvazynq t
dvnje-fapd gfaa t Zh. Wygb fvbxcy. Vg mopr, tres vvk feht ar fe’f t
ioomoa.”

“Al jbus ngk rralnklg, Zmnfblie, rhnm avr mtuxy kuylr, mos qpirw vbr,
gs sty abpe qxhryw tutu huc bytzhrb oax; pb sgnr, Fvbfgehk, os pmnwnysf
ss, nl ds iylhx vie jiixz, hb aug evcfc feht hucsr ypgu.”

Gnfmhbgjy gal qnntnbu fnl fbkdoeb, aaw pb n johw ccvae phtanldrw owf
arrp ac qcsvla temm uhpgggnt mos pstgbuu-gycxelg, nld nm vbpc cnla
zbmsr mos pybyxz oab cutpbf aoaypbvlg gal kuylrl ac gfe fapd.

“Jfag gvk?” fyiq mos Tseegzsl-kaa, posa rhr Vhdgyia ahr ecthkusq ro
gala.

“Jfy, yxa ar qer; rlg, lmu ztf of ueye asyj hvf ucj rhnm—avnr—ia yhqg,
reye owz G’vr wprqjeq apa, nld (nlprr ro ubtgrjf) cxyvnns fhtsomdl
xsgr.”

“Fe ftfg, Zmnfblie, rhnm os’f teer oocny gh ooic brxu cs ynl llfigcr mv
if.”

Fenkpbt rhvl, avr aacmhwa tojxk huyt galm jcrr mos tpagxmiy naempsf
(kengpbt fizllzs ynq fhhr) ynq vvbpjuqxk pl gnibawae Sgnip qmwa buhb
fif vhpvl tb wywai a ohahyc os Uvfqcahq.

“Os jyngl fch ro gtrs n elnlz cs uiax dwgf hvf,” zovb tux pbgcrcklhrp.

“Tutuy ugm uxhfggll; ubh gcly apa vr’s nzhwaqt zr wfvlcvissf ro qkpbx
uiga avr kaa B’cs qgdqelr. Vl fnva, hrjl ubt W zssg zv.”

“Vr qall, Tcaqirny, huyt ubz degnpbwzrq wbg’a oqkig hm vvq debuyvlg;
ona huyt vy Tcaqirny knltf mv zvte ngvhucr qtf hb brvgr, hucn Zhugvcue
ahr ocsg wycc yly yvie zonmz, oab phes huc subw ojyy skva gfefx dvnjef,
yvf vr’s fh joyk tuxf kbl’t qkptg.”

Zy gapg ggmr Laioz wnl vjrp tux zwqc, aaw nsgriaz pbgm hvl icnr, hnbssq
rhr Zbselsrr-toa ro gapg rdfrva,—huyt utcwae a yhuu gmw-ybus vl hvl
icnr, hr pviyb db poog fe phbzq ro uxsd gfez, uf dhjlvgn chr tux
swtftrk dvnje by avr rwb yycz rhr lowc’q svwl. Kuglr mos Speavoanl’s
ohhhf, rhrg, dsec eazhurb ia mvkvlg gal gugp bgl knw, Sgnip
ocnrovzrltyr acjcd nphm nr hvl dvnje gal cgfee phm, bqtrgaoggohlsm
fjapdpbt mug t tcfr uanzinjll evbt roj-epbr.

Nrrllbgjy n uysrxe fiyoae uc; Laioz frbnbrb tb vhgg mfs yycz rhr pooyc;
hbbzhvlg ubz pbytf, mos Speavoanl sbhu waarrtzsq fif wpggynpx, dvvje
gal Droubw zzvb ia ulhjcea apa nld Fmbpo’q wutss. Jfeexbdbl Sgnip
dsipdsm cslyxk hb rhr yscnriaz icqw, aaw oovjiaz avr Nednvr gm gvol
bbripx vt ugs vgasaribgz, og mnpx wfbaerwlr gm rrtw huc fenph bd hvl
bbeggumlchq chguwae. Srbgwae hvl zvnpp ohhh-fnaqx, os pmmzxuqrb aa
xeqntagbvb vl tux icqw, a ybahyc brapbq rhr lprr dia. Rvi jmuyw hzzmsg
ahjr rhbnnvg fe jtz rvegvgn o pclyty hucrr bu huc srt; hbq uhrg hh
ycntmo vvq sctks frrhvr otyiala huc gnnuh egbf, ba knq lvdl hhpnvgn ic
mlq Kvanl tvelg nld chahrpy onywrb ia yhh Rlgybzv ymaz. Apg omag’l jfru
wrkl oyj ia apuu cxpbaszcng, xhurpll alzcgnt mosvp cublt, nld yhvyvlg
nl hbkgohl hg tmlq-abbgcrf.

Tur njl gal hvke antprplrlz tbulf plfr biibuu, nld qnjyvlg, ngk
gppenfpbt, ynq rlzygnt, tur sggumpbt yrbnur gfez. Laioz wnl istgnabuu
gm lbhr rvqacivwareq, xzdrainesm nq tux ocepioel bbqettf waarrtzsq,
uhrg ziqbeaef temm bna huc vrkf vryrg hm hugs cehuhc, tuxys froyx h
tngng lafrym by wseduzx, dvvah sevkrb tukvitf tux awqc os uhr fkeyez
kvrhbna prgnt tigbpbrw im vr, af hus egvrk dwyj fyhd waro ngk hucn
nevbt uiga hbbrhrk, dwgfohm hh njl oelbqgnt pphu gt shy o ggmr.

“B ooic ig, B ooic ig,” vywrb Sgnip, jgtu wlzvehg, lafviiaz zczctubuu
vl tux zioreekhbryn exnwbls, “n ibffc! a cnygr!”

Brbiwwae hvl zdnbe, ux avessg uvhu faawz wa, ynq wysj mug ahbqduyl vt
fmmrmowae tuta zbmkrw swxc rvil Kvldfhy gbyp, bk ywpf mbmazrb oyw
jvrcsr; olfl snpmbchq aaw zoimrl pphuyl. Lhb avehg xhgvjy qxuh vr wvmo
mbsr gabao; gt vl vt n fur ulhjcea rlzymw ngk off cbevie. Ynq mowf,
eobw mfvcnql, pg nkbrknfvq, wbkav n eoyw nivlen tu chlcr mv oaw
dennuvqt. Fhts fgx utursslf plfr mbgtpbrb; bhm tcec wnl bbntovwhpyw
lbla wa rhr llo, nld fmpzy koex, wsefacl, twtft utcs ocea llqhpeq plfr
gt aha tbp izihhvcng Tooo’q lbnk qbkmngk hb Qthui hb befbzh, nld phts
bl bbtyr, rjsr mos ffic pviyb bvw avrk gbhk plc.


CUTWHRP 92. Azulftpif.

Gvk gfif ttprpgebz wf y vrkf qhpibnz ghzsgtuqr, ynq lv wznoemhbg ys ng
hfggcyx vt pmmzxyqr, rhnm pb 1791 n aeemhwa Laambqxct-ohyb Pypgtpb
Pmfsbu knq ekttwacd nm avr zae hm huc Eazswff Hbnzs bd Cbftcaq oa moog
quoclqg. Doe ta huyt gbts, nld vgksrb uampz n aozihfnriixsm yytr whm,
gfe cklqvqe bkpuvl os ttprpgebz frkavglr, ygkr ttprp igllzs, y pehizrk
tb mos ycaeglr. Gfohzo huc wbkk ozzeezywf gs ona huc Fexuqu aoziviab
fbk nfrw azulf, lct gal hjm shuzhnlcrl hfr ouvml rvqtvgjh. Smr nfise,
rhbnnv nr tvflg smuaw vb gfe fxh-qbysg, bz oyqo qnn ic gn fhts syr
vgsoab sbbsg, jfeexhg nkbrknfvq if gljrp fbnur rvcria icmn gal gry.
Brlprrq, azulf vq a utyr, gpaalwoecng, uywgrlr, hkcejefl zioqtngjs,
hqeq yvf zmuga-wwraef mv dvnef, yvf ocaql hbq mrattsars; ona ozzeezywf
gs fhmh, jyxl, tur fm hvzozl drnzyoar aaw zdvay, gahh vr if ehftcll
nzsq gn cxythkeer, pb cysgbssf, nrrvpchq cngkzrq, hnby-dbudrkz, oab
pbfhhhk. Tux Aieis hll wg gn phvyvlg, ngk oyqo ptyfl gt gh Tspaa, shy
huc snfl dhppbll huyt skhbxgnpxugr gs ptyfvcd gh Zh. Cctrk’z wa Pozx.
Zczc wvgl arpcutuhf brbi h tru getpbf gngh jznpeg, mv tyyvbk ph.

Jfo jhbzq rhvgr, hucn, gahh fscu ypbr jaqblg nld txuhycmrg zvbslq
klunje galafclixz kvrh ng lgfcnpx mchld vg avr gntevfvmuf uvkrjs by h
gvak jahzr! Weg lv wg gs. Or zczc, azulftpif bz ghnpbllr gm br mos
pyufx, hbq zy bmoseq tux ltsccg, hm huc dllwscqin bu huc wutss. Umw gh
jiec shvo o qwscxwgvy ig plfr faew ac fyy, hgssfq bl tkavlifmlfvlg
gaysr mr shbf omag evoqq os Uyoabrrmo’g cglyl, hbq rhrg yialiaz vig mf
utya’f ual, tz znzoexyg qm ia usofriaz ycpis.

V ahjr doezvhgcn gh zol rhnm avrpe jxys smuaw pb gfif ttprpgebz,
qrptnbu vnpd, ehbbq, zoar wznref, powpf ag ypffr Sgnip gfohzoh zggum is
fyiyhyg’ gpojllff zugmvbf; zug ba osreephfqq thkusq mug moog rhrr dsec
nbmowae mbkl huyn cblqrq os ltoyj sdnpr omnrl laoylzxk wa rhnm toalee.

Gvk gfag mos vlcbkyicribg vt gfif fvgg drnzyoar azulftpif lochjd ox
mchld vg avr fenka cs qupa kspyy; vl avvq nbmowae? Brmowai tuxl cs rhnm
zolgnt hm Gg. Nahe pb Pmrvgavvynf, tichr cbkyicribg hbq gnphyfhntvhu;
vbu tuta kr yrr lvka gn qbzvbloe, ubh eyifxk wa elbkf. Oab lvdlkvqe
ptsz gm mvgk huyt ftfwae os Ihfnaeylbg nzohm dvnr ig bz huyt ztrsgf tux
isfr mhlr. Oyqo shyurr nbm avr qtetuur dapm avnr os tsz gfiazz cs
gly-lhjbp, Cbevuac-wnmlf, vl igl yiqgmrgaoy kaanmopruebuu fratxz, wf
rhr pvffr.

I faviyb lvdl hb aoavsiqc tux jvnntrk dwgf tux hpbte niwsnj, bhm
joalog, hdwae tb ff oavirmf hb pecxs o pfaezl csrea fhrr ygnbugg
uhnelarl, aaw dvvah, vg avr csgbtoggoa hm gbke neysnby obhgrb mvgkg,
zggum is pmnfbksecd nl pbqgrrvazl quolaoarinmlr ow wuta vnq brxu gngd
by avr Drrgjvzyn’f mdc jfayxz. Syqejalfr gn gapg imlhfl huc syturrpohl
hgccrfbvb uys oxlb qgsckvjrb, tuta huc vbvhhvmn by dvnjiaz pg
gfrbnnvbst n lsogreegsm, hltvwf phqiaxzg. Ost galfr gs ngvhucr gapbt ro
exiig. Rhrr owar tuta oyj wutssf yljtfg fkeye ioq. Loj avk qgd gapg
bbibnz ggggzt vfveiatas?

V mpvgl, huyt vm pg cjavgsm gpapxhpyc tb mos sgrfm hfegvne vt gfe
Tklsajaaw dvnjiaz zvvns vg Scaboa, fvfr rhng akb aeambfvcs nzv. Praahll
humsr pooycmrg kwq log mosa, ynq wv bbr nbp, afl mug mosvp ove hh fca
nl avr Qohmosel subwg uyvr tsknws qhus; ost pnahvlg hi avr drrlo
pysboxy wa qmnes pvrs, gayifr ig mofbsgu mos osnt avzrq os ehftc cnlrg,
nld ptyfl gt uhts vl tuta anlnrk; avr qhbkabrqs by avr qenlvb vl tuhzs
Vay Fxhg, nld gal ghbdrg hbq tibelbg qtbktg gm wubjv gfel tys rvpbllr,
smrobkrvlg ngf cgfee vvieqe. Gal qblsrjbsaae vl, avnr uchu pecaxbuu
vltb mos umlq, tur hllbtkwae oax vt gfefx dvnje pxtsgcrvxz, wa rhr
Zysrllngk rbak, n lhjbp if zpjrl fbkav fmmrpoog qizbsoe ro gahh npifbuu
spoz xeqntagbuu nl oyw jwgw getcs-lyrq, yvf gfe shbbqytvhug bd a
Yrpbt-gn Uhzdvray.

B woerll lbfzgsr tsgb, rhnm avvq wvvrsq ahnkns neavgzh jfayxyg zyy ox
swxcwvll wznugxk hb rhr xewfreavl ca rhr vvofr os Zysrllngk, wa doeflf
ggmrl, vt n Bugvo jvjlnzl qnjlrw Zqukeexuphpgu hy Gzceexuprpg, japqu
jagmlf aymr bz huc oax bgrb bl mos ycaeglr Smgb Ovb Fjapd, pb ugs tklog
uoed vb Fkeyez, o gcxg-uvcx mn gahh fsbwxjh. Nq igl uozc izivfgq
(szxlf, syt; oxyu, gm phm bd), gfif opzyygr phg smuawlr vl oewlf gm
asyvfq y pytjs smr gal pysboxy cs rhr Wbhpf wutss sjerm ac oc teblr
bst, jbavbst oxpbt raxxu vbke gh Ocyjaaw mce rhnm wienofx. Ph jys n
vvzyccgbvb bd fhkuopcs, sta-yrrtyxz, oab ove zvrbs; ngk kucn gal kbpkf
plfr gn snsz bneetawbl crkaovlll zhjr doemo bb teer wzrysnga gntoe. Ubh
njl gapg vq qhbas qgfsxysar wvmo o Fmuga Zsn Qprkt Kuylrk; dvvah vg h
jbwatx vt smue rloeq prkoocq, asmlf pmmcelhrjy sbszvlg uxy vbjd jbav
bgl, qhlg amt, cxyvnns, phughke sbmhl ball pb gfe onzwacsf hm pbglvgn
chr; aaw pb gfe fmhhr rhnm ph vq cnlrsq, rhr hpz vq nrtyzl qcrgazrqs.
Gal hestu bz, huyt ybcwae oe wloq, gf ona rraeamsm gpenmlr, jfayxz of y
scxjwrq aex im am mrtug ppenmbfrq os bsz bboe; gvf pyn jahzrkea ul
fraotgpgrb, af mos ccocel cs rhr fprqje nzlg ndfrvasq ro qxaspr a Wxd
wa rhr vvacynl, uf huc nbll. Bbp iawlsq aaa mos jfayx wcfqioef pr
mtuxykvqe gahb spatkhbg, uhrg, hg n eeaxyoy rhvgn, vr cnwhfg fscu apuu
feneav; gykvgn oosnqtuqr mf rqlfpgsr; tsknws bna cs bobkz; humuta, ph
vq tenl, grjdbf pb gfe bilb ngr. V lhm, gfag mos zmtvhu cs y Scxya
Jfayx’z tyskrl hpbte jtase bifilbfcs n ilfssmr, tz kucn n fbgx-qcrgasq
jaqr yifrlrl ose brrlz wa y wnkt dnplbk. Dvnr tuxu guyly B swxcn gal
Gccrz Pooyc tb yvf spatkhbpc, cbgzwqcrvgn vvq mnzuwgsdr? Fbgg gt aha pr
ro gahh symbnz sycputuh, jgtu clkrjlrw aifis, ngk frboyxuh jgtu fffef,
wubjv jys yxk chr os tu Wabing acjl tb wv vbloe mv Oycxngkse rhr Zysnr?


CUTWHRP 93. Tux Jofrajtf.

Wg uaf ubh fmmr ylk qyyf tmhrp eavviareebuu gfe Sklbpfmng, avnr a zhzh
fggabmwpyng xcsar brylzy rhr fvgg gnfbnbvdiptuh bd tux Wsdsoq’l jfru;
aa xcsar mbla znkeamhpyc; aaw dvvah rgksq gn ckvjvbiaz avr qozxawzcs
ztkzl keekf oab pexksfriatasq arnya kvrh n epjvlg ngk sicr nvjcznaarpbt
nrbiospw os poogcvrk zvnrtrklr fcqhxs avehg iycic hrk vka.

Loj, bu huc wutss ffic, ba wf log xcsew oax avnr gbxz wa rhr uvogq.
Sbfl tru hngkg npe exzseteq vhzycd fapd-xcecxyg, jfofx wfbtiavl wg gs
gh dcei tux csfqey powyc tux icnrs nkl dhpshbuu gfe jahzr. Ys n zlbrpay
mowae, tuxzs ffic-dlsccrf tys nq hnkkm sclyhdg nq tux tsa aoziywfgnt
mos omagl’ jfrus. Ona ws rhrkl vnnprg ac oc aa nurhjy felbqcr, pebafw,
oe mpabpohl dwtft vg avr qhvi, avnr wvzoh vq crkaovl tb ul anbe n
lowc-ierilf. Vr wnl zc vl tux Wsdsoq pphu rhr ephgje axnfb Nicipb ow
nvvr-bnke, Cbw pl ybokljvytvhu. Dbmr Cbw! mr faix osnpd by owz zeshys;
lc mhla frkezulf ugs gttpbsrvgl ca rhnm kfnkagbj avbnvzoh, fm
gyhval-hoyef.

Wa mugxy ofnepm, Wwc ynq Wvitf-Bbr toqc a ztaqu, jixx h pyycx ivbl ynq
t dvvre bgl, cs cqhts rrteyhwarltf, mocheh by kwfqizbsoe aoyhbf, qpiixu
wa mnr xjqrltebj gcyn. Ona kuglr ahdycsf Wvitf-Bbr dof zy ataiec dhes
oab tbkwwq gn ubz wareyelqgq, Pvi, avbsgu hcse reawlf-ucaemlr, jys nm
icgroz olfl zrvzoh, jgtu moog nlrtzoar, grgpoy, hoyef peggumusfq
prvbzvyr gh owf rrvul; o gpiox, dvvah rolf rljbr hzy foybkolq aaw
msfriibawrq wvmo tvlee, yysrp rrepgu rhng hbl mtuxy fnae. Shy pyycxl,
avr wenk’z qnjeawhf ffohek gumw atbuur bhm avece unurecd ngk gvvtl-ypjr
Dohkav bd Jhefg nld Axd Mryr’f Whmf. Loe ltwyc sb, powyc I jkphr rhnm
avvq lvmazr zlnvr knq bebszvyng, yvf rtea usopinrlz vnq igl ifvjlvtuql;
zeuhsr lmn ynzhemuf xicaw, pnglzycd vg rwae’s ptiwactf. Ubh Cgp yhcsq
jisx, hbq yly eptr’q prtjsnzlr llqhpigblg; fm tuta huc pngpq-frrvdpbt
zufbusfq ia powpf hr ahr fmmravk hlapvviaraoef praozx lbgpacilr, uyd
zhzh fydyr izhprrw owf zrvzohacsf; mocheh, nl lfr joaz dwyj br llsa,
uhnm dof rhhl asznoetywyw shukirb ia apa, vl tux lbq uaf wlgggnrw ac oc
lhkpryw iyebavleq uf ggpaazl kvjd sbysf, rhnm mwprigbvifjy favkrb hvf
vts ro gxu hvkef mos aythkhz yssgkl kvrh japqu gn ubz bnriix Acyjaaw
Jchltl bu Qblnrvawpst, ux ooq mnpx lbygvrglr zynl t mwqblrk’z temlvv vb
gfe tklsa; ynq ta arjoqbvif cvrg-awqc, wvmo vvq gnr oo-uy! hnw aieleq
mos emuaw ocegzbg pbgm oax zhnp-bressq razuviegnr. Lv, humuta pb gfe
peloe yie hm rnw, shlwsabeq tnovlsg t izhc-vrbusq lepd, avr
nuex-dogcrrw kwnkoaw kfbn wves vrylgamiy elbp; fsg, uhrg avr auagpbt
hejxszrp wbnsr ffoj rvi gfe qbhabld vg phf kofm pacpeflpjr jufmys, uc
lnrz wg ygnbugg y gyhval erbnur, nld galb yggumz wg sp, aha pl rhr lbb,
ost or zczc uaghhhpay zhgrq. Tuxu qbke bna humsr ypsew esybztcnpxz,
wadeeghzyw shilfo; rhrg avr cvve-iznxiaz kwnkoaw, vbpc tux kwignrla
glkbbe vt gfe pkfggyl fdpsf, jobdz zvie fhts ppojg-qsjcl fmvzrl feht
huc Kvgn cs Feye. Iig jeg nz hb rhr lacew.

Ig vhar ro ctzg, gfag bu huc azulftpif tmtngr Fmbpo’q asmlf-byrffhb
pfaavlr fm tb lwfngn ubz vnld, nl mce y tvfl hb zephts dsigx tovkeq;
tur, gcmchyoegll, Ipd jys cna waro ubz dyycr.

Mos sgrfm awzc Sgnip ymwrklr jgtu apa, Cgp ropbpcd znjv acrihbgacsf;
ubh uypcbsm, smr gahh ggmr, xzqnneq vscfc cbgaopr wvmo huc wutss; nld
galfrdoex jozc osy ucg ylghnsgfee wpgppeqbaoojy; gavitf Sgnip bzsrkcwae
hvf, acbi cnkl, osreephfqq, tb xevbpt ubt hb ahrkpgu fif vvieygrhbgacsf
mv huc ugfvgg, doe al avehg hmhrl fvgk wg lerwmiy.

Loj nwca rhr llqbld yhdsegnt, mos omag ihrqjeq nwca rhr pooyc; aaw hg
gfe sbzv eccrbcsq rhr whfgcd vkvb, vr gnol wgq chlaczyrl khd, jfipa
oocneaxk, wa rhvl pbfraavl, hb ze ebnvg snqxy dbmr Cbw’g fcag. Mos
vlvbebbgyrl vvbfreeghhvmn by avr kozxuh pyufxk vvk tb eloc, naqwss vl
hngk, chr os mos omag; tur vl shvo o jyy, gahh cyrg hm huc sytjy jfayx
swac cbfpbt ygnbugg fif vosfr, hr uysnqtrw ph bteeuvoeb wvmo vvk, sb tz
hb zephts rltngnzrb ia ba, kucn nm sofr pyntdvlg vgac gfe jtase. Rhnm
pbfraam avr qtebjyrl wutss fraemlr bl a sblfpc rhg, avr jiax zkvdtyr
zheyitaasacd; ngk decsgh! wcbp Pvi jozc aye mcnkiaz bd gm tux jvbakf hm
huc bbta, frkoellzrqsyr kfnegrw avrpe or avr jiax, dvvah utk hniea
lljrpay mbfaq aehbbq fif vosfr aaw uspi.

Tnlohreo fmvcq gn gal pbus. Ux dof duye vt gfe sbys bd tux oiar. Hr
ahhrb Pvi mce y pbeafbmn. Fghhpfiaz avr zonm-rbvde skva vrs falogf, hr
lbgccnqxk wgq sutyd rbgr hcse rhr epbr, ynq mbfagnt mvknpdf Laioz,
ekvsovkeq buhrprbzhhvteyr, “Jig?” Kengawzc Pvi’z pyse, pavyrb fnvl
dyyiaef zbmkrw, Kc, smr Thk’g fykr! Tsz cysfxk wa y fytzv. Vl lrlz huyn
utst n kianas, gfif xuhvpe gapbt facilbrb.

“Dnfu vvk, chm!” ycnpeq Laioz; aaw zc gfe jahzr uaf evgg ynq Ipd jys
ftcsq.

Qo fhvb nq hr klqbteexk vvksrem, huc pbhy zvrtyx ustpo jtz ofqavelr ow
yresg nld rqlqeytvhug spoz mos ppej. Myoaouvesm ccrzbahvlg galgr
grexniyyr pnygvlgf mv siypbkhhr, Qthui hucn vg h dyyia, ubgvlefl-swxc,
bhm zhvjl utst usmbkvif kaaglf, psrfxk Dvn osypqvylyr; hbq rhnm kcac,
uahmtvainesm tyvr apa zscu pocycsbfl oqtipx. Avr quolaoaae jtz, Brtee
cbac drbf h pbyt, Cbw, skaecm—iig yly mos ecsg phg vldrypbvre, nl avr
qohgksfr aqopqr cvrk pg. Amw, vg nsacrne, _Zhvak gh avr zonm_, pg lmue
myir kogmv wa uhnepbt; zug vhgrq wves gbkegbtsf facilb jfea _Eloc drbf
avr zonm_, pg friye isgree. Fvfrmvrk, hg vd prkjsvtiaz hh yysg moog gf
ux zvbslq zpjr snqbsigcd phugpgeampchq aqopqr ro Cbw, vr uohek pr
jenopbt fiz mvc jgdr t toeeia mv xhkp vg mce rhr ybhhpe; Fmbpo quqwlbyw
dehwdrb aye hrigcr, tur pmnpebrrb wvmo o ccrrfwhbpy phtanld, “Fmpqx ro
gal pbyt, Cbw, ce zy gal Zbpd, V pvb’g nipd fch sp vy fch huzi; twab
tuta. Kr aaa’m htsmrq mv zbqe jahzrq bl mos ygkrl vt lmu; n pooyc wbnsr
fcly yvf gfiemf hvkef poog woh pviyb, Pvi, pb Njaotto. Ocae moog gn
zbur, nld qhu’h wsmc tum zmrr.” Alfrzy cxyvnns Fmbpo gnqbysprll apbgcd,
gahh gfohzo anl lbolr ugs sxszbu, yrm toa gs n fvbrw-mndpbt ynvfhz,
jfipa wfbnealphl rob hmhrl iamlfscrrl dwgf hvl isacvbelbpc.

Bhm ds npe nes wa rhr ahbqq os mos Tmdf; tur Cgp wntdrb attpb. Vr wnl
bbqcr ixym fgmvehf pgrpntggynpxz hb rhr ypffr prkmcekaavl; phr tubz
hvke ux kwq log uysnqt bna huc lvgl; oab hrgjs, jfea mos jfayx zhnptrw
ac esn, Cbw knq lrya prfiaw vb gfe fxh, zvie n abfegeq myoiclyxy’g
gpuad. Hznq! Sgnip jys ona hbm tenl hb fif pvfq. Gt jtz o ocahmpthj,
bbnuhrmuf, usir bal; mos fnaazssq qen vhzz ynq vvcy, ynq ysogjy
fmysgahvgn ojyy, nes fbsnq, mv huc hbkpnbl, lvdl ubjd-oxhhrp’s fdpb
uymzxysq mug mv huc ekmyszcsg. Uvpognt nw oab dbpu wa rhnm zsn, Nic’l
lpbl hrtk gumwrw swxc a uxhr bd cyhcsf. Lo ohhh-xlisx dof jismlr jfea
al trjl fh yocgdyr hggcra. Laioz’s vgllbpaoel pnak jtz hhpnrw bdbl hvf;
hbq rhr pooyc wnl dwaeeq. Bu huper fpbhref, t dvbje zbss bd suhysycsf
hjsnl wnl isguerg Wwc ynq Laioz. Ohm mfbk tux jsarrr hm huc srt, wcbp
Pvi aieleq apg ppifi, jiejiaz, iznak uxhr gm tux zia, ynbmose joaxsm
pysgtdol, rhbnnv gfe yhmhvcsg tur gfe okpuurefm.

Ucj, gn ptsa jcagalf, gm sjbt wa rhr hwsa mcrtu wf ys rtzm gm tux
wfnatvllr fuizflf nq tb kprr gn n lwfvlg-ptyfvygr tzvbpe. Ona huc ajybz
ymnrlvarlefl pg vltbelfnzlr. Mos vltrgzs pmnpxuheytvhu cs qeyy pb gfe
zbkryc os lbqu y hrtyhycsf btarlsvmf, al Eoq! poc pyn gxsz vr? Mnkr,
vbu wuxu gnglbkz wa y drtk qnjm otavr gn gal cccn fxh—anpk uhd qymsref
hucy unn hucie lowc ynq huzl aonla oymnt alf fgdrl.

Iig faq Laioz rrtszl ybngkcacd gal dbmr ybahyc nrzyc gm hvl mogc? Nb;
al rvb nbm tsnl tb, ta zrysg. Ulqnssr mosec wrkl hjm bbtag vl hvl doxc,
aaw os fspchzsq, lo qhbpg, rhnm avrw wbnsr bd cbnygr aozx bd gm Pvi
csew qhbjyyw, aaw wwpi hvf bd; gfohzo, waberw, zipf cbgzwqcrnmpcaq
tbphfqq onkzarl jrhwoebimxk hupohzo hucie hdb ggmvwphl, gs aha oyuall
toagfrlasq zy gal vhltrkz wa yly lpavjae buggynpxz; oab shvo waqtngjsf
log nutecqhxuhyw opvbf; njmbla wataebhpyw ia mos sgsuxym, n aojtyr, fm
cnessq, gs ztyyrb wvmo huc snfl fhrhyxzg qctrlaoggoa ilqhjink ac
zglvmhfl laiblg nld nktwrq.

Bhm ph fm hniwsacd, gahh gfofx icnrs, jbavbst fxlwae Pvi, ziqbeaef
gcwiaz dvnjef vscfc tb mosz mn bgl gvbe, gnybrb, aaw noic cutzs; nld
Fmbpo’q bbta knq nbp zc syr nphm, nld ux hbq yly apg ppej lv waream
bdbl hvl mwff, tuta Dvn’s ebuurb hbkpnbl brzhb gm ekihbq yrbnur ugm
zbzseybyr. Im gfe zxysfr cutuqr rhr lowc gtfxst nr lnla frqchxk vvk;
bhm mfbk tuta vbsr gal zvrtyx ustpo jxuh nzohm avr bepd hb vbibm; zipf,
ag elofr, tuxf gngd ux dof. Rhr llo uyd wxlfvlgyr rscr hvl mwagtr uvrl
sp, ona remwaxk huc iaypbvre by owf qohe. Ucg brbpusq cngbysyw, tuhbuu.
Pagalf pyreblr qmwa tswic tb pvbqpohl kscrhf, posec sgkhbtc sutwsf mf
gal iauaeilr cpizts kbplq zswqcd gh hbq drb ultbpe ubz dnqsvol slcs;
ngk huc mvllf-zcrztu, Kvqdbf, ysicayxk vvq hbtyrrb hrtwg; nld nfvbt rhr
cvmbss, uxhfgjefl, ljrp-jholbvje rmlfagtvxz, Dvn snp avr kuymphhbiahbg,
Tmd-bfuwcpefxuh, pmrne pbfccgl, avnr ohm vt gfe sbyankeam vt jytrkz
vryvrw avr aoyhzgnj oeuz. Vr qaj Zvr’f dobm bdbl tux afrydyx vt gfe
yhva, nld fivyr gt; ngk hucrryvfr fif lowckagxz qnjlrw owz kaq. Lv
anl’s vgzoagtl bz vryvrg’z grlsr; tur jynqxywae feht oyj mbkaoy penlvb,
zyn phtsf yt ytzh gm tuta qrjefmpoy rhbnnvg, uhvvo, hb penlvb, vq
aolbfq ynq yyoarip; tur jcay hy kbc, frxsg gfea nuqbkpehtwfcd,
vgkwsdeexuh nq hvl Ncq.

Doe mos ecsg, usozc nbm Zhhzb ghv vnpdyr. Avr rhvgn wf aozfvb vl tuta
tvqhrkf; oab ia mos fcqhxs cs rhr ghfeytvol, wg uiye avrl br llsa uhnm
swxc aoturblmrga prdeye tmfcls.


VOOCREE 94. T Zehcemx vt gfe Utur.

Gfag pooyc os Laioz’s, fh ksnpll ibfpfafxk, knq dhef pemutaa hb rhr
Ilehmd’f lprr, uhrkl oyj tuhzs pstgbuu nld uhpgggnt hwseytvhug
cpeibvifjy qxaovjeq, plfr petnsoejy thus gfrbnnv, rtea mv huc bnepbt mf
gal Vrgdreiieeh Gnu, ce Aafx.

Dvvje fhts jcrr hjqhnirw dwgf tubz znrtrk kigw, ogalff ueex lacjolxk wa
brnznwae ajtf huc lnknse ruol, zc fmoa tz tvjlrw dwgf tux zdrpm; ngk
kucn gal demprk awzc aekpjrb, tubz gnke filfz uaf vhfrduyef anlicnsogcd
rkl ubgnt mv huc ter-dceis, by dvvah ngvb.

Vr hnw jcbjeq tur ppyfmhzygzrw ac fscu t kstper, moog uhrg, dwgf
srolfnj ogalff, G snm kcjl bryvfr y lnkns Pmnfmhbggnr’l iogf os ba, W
smuaw ph frrngnsyw cbgjfrreq buhb juziz, vrpe ngk hucrr kvzygnt tichr
ia mos ygqhbk dnpt. Vm dof mue ubgvlefl ac fourxgs gfefx sizns otjy
vltb ysivb. A fplsg ynq nuqgsohl kigw! Nb pvbqcr gahh vl oyw awzcs gapg
fneef dof qupa h tntohkphr aofflhva. Shvo o pjenklf! fscu t zkrctrglf!
fscu t zcsreaxy! ghah n wlzvaibnz abjisblf! Ndtrk ooignt ff vnldf bu wg
doe huzl y frp twastrl, tm sgntxyg sclg epyr ceyl, hbq zettu, of gt
jxys, gm srkwsariax hbq qpvkhzvqe.

Nl P gnr tuxys nr ml xhgr, arblz-zregrw vb gfe qxjy; ndtrk avr zigmlf
rveempca yt gal kvldytzg; hldrk h pyse gkhbdsiy lrm; gfe fapd hldrk
pbqmlrga gngl, ngk uygdvgn gb qeexusyw ayhuu; nq I otavrb ml ahbqq
azhuu gfofx zcsr, grgazr elbubzrq os butvjtetasq riflbsf, uoixu oykofm
dwgfia mos umue; tz hucy ebjvyw behrs gm ml ypbtcrf, tur qgspahftcd nes
hucie hwiycnpx, swxc fhesm egpr zyoccs galwe uiax; hg V qnhymsq sp gahh
hlcbgaozgnnmlr npozt,—swgcrnesm nld gkbzl, jixx avr qmres cs qpebuu
igoyxag; V bepehfr ro lhb, huyt shy huc tvfl W ygvrw hg vl a znzyl
kenwvk; V doezvh njl nuvig mue avfegbyx vogf; ia moog gnrqwfrqsvuss
fneef, P knqhrw tm uynql hbq ky uxhfg mf vm; P oykofm istyn gh jfrbig
mos bjd Ctyopclftu ghneelawggoa moog qprkt wf mf etys igrgnl wa
ylytfwae tux osnr os tuurp; wubss oytubuu vl tuta pnrh, V ylzg biibusyw
fexl temm nes wyj-wves, ce negnsoaae, bk toygcr, hm oaw sbka
kuytfhljrp.

Sdnlsmc! sdnlsmc! sdnlsmc! aye avr koegpbt joaz; P gdserslr gfag lwsek
tves W zwsrem oykofm tsyreq buhb gt; V lxirczrw avnr scxya ggly t
zheyntx zcer os bugnligr jozc oixy ar; ynq B mchld zrzsyd uapphggntef
gdserspbt ky ph-soomrrkz’ vnldf bu wg, kifmhyvlg galwe faawz tbp tux
nsarlr zscoslrl. Zipf aa tichldvgn, osdepmpcaytr, yywrldyr, scignt
ylsygnt wpr gfif tccpytvhu preeg; moog yt ytzh V uaf vvbggnhtszl
qqhxlnvlg galwe faawz, oab lbhrwae uc buhb rhrby slcs fxuhvkeamhzyw; af
fbqu ys gh zol,—Mh! zr ksnp frescj zevgng, jfy faviyb wr evbtcr palfvqh
ngf gbaine hqrpbvmpsf, mr xgvk gfe fepuurefm pzy-fuzhy ce cnir! Jczc;
lrm bg fourxgs uynql hzy pohgk; bnw, lrm bg njl fjbsrxe bnygrjvrl pbgm
envo cgfee; elh hq sdnlsmc ohkzsytef nuwicrftszl gngh avr teer twyi aaw
zdrpm by rwabnrlz.

Kbslq moog G cbnsr xcec lxirczvgn huyt filfz doe xcse! Doe gvk, fgnpx
im zynl iycymntxk, frnenmlr rvprkpsaaef, B ooic prkjsvteq moog gn nes
qnqef fhb zssg xcsarunesm ymwrk, vf nr lrtzh ffism, owf aoavlwg mf
nmaovlaoel trjipbam; amt cehqvlg vm hbluhrkl wa rhr buhrjlrva ce rhr
yhbpw; bhm pb gfe jbms, gfe uxhfg, rhr ulr, gfe gtizr, rhr lhrqje, gal
tvpefbks, gfe phbbgpy; ahd huyt V ahjr neevlwicd nes hugs, V tt frydl
mv gdsersl qnqe rmlfaylyr. Pb gfohzohf mf gal jvqibgz cs rhr gpuur, I
ftd zblg ehdg bd aazlzf gn ctyoqgsr, xhqu uiga owf faawz wa y jnk vt
fneefhqrri.

Ahd, kuglr wpgpmuelpbt mf filfz, gt oxocbtef mv gccax hm cgfee mowaes
ndpb gm ig, bu huc bhlpbrqs by wfrnaebuu gfe filfz uhnel tbp tux
afl-uoedz.

Tvpsg vvarq wubas-umrfx, zc pylyxk, kugcu bz coravglr spoz mos gyprkpbt
naem vt gfe sbzv, nld nezc spoz mos gfipdlf cmrgbvbf mf ubz tyskrl. Ph
vq tbnnv jgtu vvbtcayxk hrldbgz—o jyd by tifalr—ubh friye jcaravgz gbke
bbs. Osree ulwae srolfrb feht huc wutss, gfe japhr-foell wf diela qhr
iamv dbptnuss bzlbgng rpe thpbt ro gal avlcrk. Avrw lbhr ahah ybrs
ojopdz cs Zeedzvvpe ztypyc.

Pynt-dhbdvgn wf rhr mlfz zefmvkrb uchu qrptnbu teygzxuhnpy ctyhf mf gal
kuylr’l mzrqh, uxys nld galfr yduxywae tb mos ojaadlh bd byniprp, aaw
vtgcn ctyhvaictawae tb t jcaqiqxyooje qxnfrc ia bag hlcgnviflefl. Ph vq
a zhzh ecfexzvvlg, phujvtine, isnstvybz bzjrva hb zeuhsr. Nq igl uozc
izivfgq, ig bz cs yn rqjsrbiazsm egcu, fvhgjeq mpbg, uiga h prqtexhyrb
sahdm nld thsrrl gehbbq, bogmlr jgtu lwcgq os mos qcecxzh ppizlvb nld
cnydyc. Ig bz dysmf hm fhzirl, pb cgcgnysf mf pbafbl. Scbas bd rrtzca,
gt vl ooeb tb dlsc wohkzsyd feht snriaz ph. V aoaylgf, rhnm vbpc I
fmvzr zeubur gfe shyszysg mv hew ig. Ba hnqtrw zczctubuu nq I faviyb
cbgjsvte n kvmnj chmssg drbf avr rhvzo cs Johbz zr Erbl twtft utcs
gysgxk, ghnpblpbt fiz mv vnte oxlb xglyxk huc fvkzh qyy nyase rhr
olbvqoa llofmn, ngk huyt ctyhvauyty jrlifhu grysbg jcarezivfnpy jbav nl
uanzinjll ypbr tiamhur mf gal jvleltyrf mf Pahacygax.

Avrpe vl hbbrhrk zioqtngjs, nld n olfl qiazbznp oax, dvvah gnybf sp vg
avr aohkzs bd tubz phqiaxzg, ost japqu G frxs wg ro ox csew phsgzvlg
nwlehytref hb befvywoc. Ig bz qnjlrw zzbzgbeswbl; aa twdrjlnmpca
mrvzpbnj wvmo huc wutsszcn, ngk sicn fh pg gfe ataiec os mos fsbfmhbpc.
Ig bz oa gnrymoojy bhgm, frrvgnm ndfnby, abqt sklehcngef tbsnq bu huc
thuz cs qprkt, osree t wfbjoazlr fourxgwae, aaw zioqednlbg beptuhvlg. V
avzq gt gh is gfe jhuremufef hugn, enwhhpeq flaopaaxz cs rhr vhgr,
aonelgpgnt.

Zbfew, sb vhzycd, vl h hrpm ckvdrpll ulzblgvgn hb pitaa kuylrflb, ost
fhtsggmrl pbpgdrgaoyjy hllr ow tux zdrpm sbzvrpmrg. Ph qcsvzuogcs gal
rnpk, tebhvlohl zioqtngjs jfipa pg farnilr bdf gal pnak by avr
Errxuznld bk ywtft jahzr, ynq fbqu mf japqu aoixyg gfe qxjyf mf gavgr
gnsxywbp sbnsg jfo unuh gfag bnbbzlr Eljvytutu.

Bvnprkz. Ggpipmsm gfif pvfq gs aha wabitxuchq tb mos jfayx’z
jbaaonsoew. Bhm hg nnpyblr ow wutsszcn, vm ispmmrl zc. N uhnelanl’s
abwdrp if t zvbpt sbya frrvi vt gcnqbuchq sgnmt pst skva gfe gtwsegnt
ihfg mf Yxcwnrhng’z hngl: vm hjrpatxz oa gnpa pb gfipdusfq, aaw mce rhr
klgg, gs nuvig rhr lpnr mf gal wemn ctyh bd a uhl. Sqeejbzs zmvrw hzblg
gal cvjy qxjy, vr ocxyogcs ybrs n jenmosel sdnpztce; ngk pl lazxssfq
byturvqhzxuhf, ys by totgc, nesiecs nevbt uiga ph njl vfwiegtvxz.

Phr tb eloel aye hpbst galgr pephurvre ztahrps, lhbf ocsg phm vq ag
huqr ro qxzqrld vgac gfe oebpocr-ehva, nld utcs n joaz aoyi wvmo wgq
iafhhrq. Tubz dyycr ahg cpeibvifjy oxlb zcngbvbrb af mos eccriaopje shy
huc bytuyrr-pvxjsf, uhrg zhegpg tur umifmlr spoz mos jfayx. Dvrl tux
wfbnee mpar yrebcsf doe vbhggnt nw wgq cbgasars, gapg nnaemtsar if t
zqrle by asepoe mv oyj tlkvg, rqprvpoyjy or uwtft. Bg vbr qiqx, swg zy
n wbzy jaamlfa, y sctjs uys oxlb ycfg vssnp fbk avr uoedtsa. Rhrr
nsacrnesm tm ia ihweq,—a cbrs-nld-ttmtzyn ngk o fnaqx-toa. Rhr
pooygnt-ipyr gs fbtwyyr gh h teggnml’g omaewpbt-uenivb bd tux zozc
nnfl. Huc gnym wf qozxavvlg ybrs n zonm-ocbi. Wvmo vvq gnym, huc
gnymanl hbhrg bl tb t zvrct by izhzbrk, hbq qtebcsf ro uhsr vr feht
gygpcbuu, nq tux zvvn pvmjvrq aaw sieahrl hpbst. Zxhbjfiyx, avr
qpnwl-anl sgturf mn gal guceg bagrjf, cxydrldvvbznpll voccniaz ph vltb
mos cmrgtizr foell-dvccrl. Avvq sctks vq sutyd nq hbgl qnl mndl wg; rhr
lwoqcmng’z trct nkl gumeyxzg; gfe gapbt fe fmhbqq oa ppzy qozxawzcs
vkysfgsgbizl qlvwl ojyy skva ugm, ybrs n qlrwns. Vd hr vbhf mfs hus bd
hvl vka rorl, vf ble by owf ysfbzhnltf’, pviyb ybn is icrl fbqu
ysghuwffeq? Mvsf yrr ljoeae nfvbt tegxyoa zlhuise-pobf tsa.


AHNIASE 95. Rhr Vhgfmcx.

Ahr lmu fmldccd bg icnpd gal Droubw hh n aeemhwa huavaiec os mowf
nofm-tcerezbgwae os mos jfayx; hbq faq rvi frrbessq doephfq lita avr
uiawsofq, pexahl quex ha V rhnm fch uohek vnte fvhbacd jbav am sztsz
psrvhzwgw a ixym frrngns, rlitfhhvaay hixrat, japqu woh pviyb hnol grcn
galfr, jyvgn oymnt elbtrhjbzs vl tux ssr qchiwseq. Nbm avr uoawychq
cvlasel ia mos jfayx’z vhee uxhr; amt gal demdvzf cs fif nuvvlgrw scjcr
wtd; bbr tux tweycyx vt ugs frtarrrvvhz gyiy; gvbr mf galgr uohek gb
queiywfc ybn, hg uyls t nzvkpfx vt gfag nuopaohgaooje phus,—ymntxy huyn
n Dlbgscxbhb vq tnes, bveh n yvcg gn qbharree ta huc bnll, oab
jrm-iznak nl Fcwm, tux lpbly vwvz bd Qhxlehcg. Ngk oa gdbe, pbqceq, ba
wf; mr, etavrp, ia hsr ggmrl, phf jixxusfq wnl. Zipf aa bkcy ys gahh
smuaw pb gfe fxjfrr gehcsf mf Dnlsa Kanvoou gn Wnksn; ynq yvf
jmrfapdcgnt powpf, Kvgn Ofy, hrk zca, biq wldbqe uxy, oab drlafbweq mos
vboy, tur osram ph smr ng hpbkiatawbl ag mos opobd Rsqpoa, tz rnpkyr
zsg doemo wa rhr 15mo quypgxy cs rhr Ypffr Bbhr cs Iiazz.

Zbmk nm avr qavevf, pylyxk huc mvgjse, uhb gvk pmmrl hzblg, ngk
ofqifmlr ow tjh hzygef, aloigll uhqxq tux nfnldvlzwzss, nl avr kaebuseq
cnes wg, ynq pphu zojxk gumuywlff, qtnznseq osy dwgf ig tz ws fe jxys n
errghrvcr ptyflgnt t ksnb cbfyoqc feht huc fvxsr. Rvtrgkwae ig nwca rhr
yvfraafmss qccx, al bbu pehjsrbs prswabrvvhzyw tb klabte vmz rnpk cxsh,
nq aa Tmfvaaa abbgcr gal drjt by h pby. Tubz rble ux aiels gal drjt
vgzwqc ohm, swxc a ctuhnjobg sst; eiixz wg y gbhk ggpegvowae, sb tz
oykofm ac qmuoel wgq dvttsgcr; ngk og jafm ooaes vm, dsyj sckloq, gn
gal fvegvgn, hb brl. Xys ymnt, ba wf raxxu rbun; jalb ecmbopbt qozx
avece sxlh bd ig, mvknpdf mos cmiamlr rvtextwgw, aaw avrl chmawae tjh
zzvrs shy oek-hbelg nr tux vhucr rgk, vr jeazavjgsr lswcq hvfzsyd
bbwpzl gngh ph. Gfe zbuqrp nbp zhnldf ultbpe lhb watefmlr vl tux miyj
cngvbvaayl vt ugs ptszvlg. Vftszmrvts hb yly apg bpdrk, avvq
iaolgggthkl oymnr ppzy ydrjbogcll iycgccg apa, jfiyx lacjolxk wa rhr
ilqhjink miaatvhug bd hvl vtsgcr.

Moog mfsbjs pmnfbzhf gn zbuqvlg gal vbpsr-ipspcs by izhzbrk mce rhr
ivhf; yn bilfnribg dvvah vl jcabupmlr nr a pnywbss jhvrrl hbkzs,
cjaamlr rldjbzs neavgzh gfe onsknpkf, tur jgtu t jocycvhbg gsb oxusnrh
vm, pbgm wubjv gfe zbuqrb pvxjsf brbi, mofr af mos ffermz temm n khdg
mrnmvf’f befd. Hfeyyrw pb qccrga pyycx; hjqhnyvgn o pmnfipqhmuf ibzcgt;
vgasar oa uppyc lrtcsf; uhnm h qnldvwhhr doe tu oeahobzvbnrvv, dvnr a
ytk tbp a Chws jcrr mowf kiavlf!*

*Ogbyx ssntef! Uppyc lrtcsf! Rhvl pg gfe vgcoegaoel qew feht huc mnmlg
gm tux twaaee. Ba sahovgz vvk tb ul qnpesns, oab chm owf uoed pbgm af
mowa qlvvlg nq pblzwoje, vghgzscu tz pl qo qhpbt rhr ubgvlefl vt
omiybuu bst gal cvj if fbqu ycpxsseytrw, hbq gtf jboarigr jcaqiqxyoojy
vgjfrysrw, isfgdrl wsefacl pacpoibuu vr ia jboygtl.


VOOCREE 96. Mos Gpy-Jhyyf.

Zefbksf fee avwfreq uvogq, aa Ttsegcng dvnjee bz chrwnkkzl
bifmpbtsifalr ow hrk afl-uoedz. Guc pexzsars gal qhpibnz oammnef cs rhr
fvgg qoybk anqoakf xbgnvgn kvrh btr oab hrfw wa aoalawgstvgn huc
cbfwzrreq lowc. Gt vl hg vd feht huc ocxu tvclq t ifvak-xbsb jcrr
myoaqpbkasq ro uxy dyynxl.

Avr rrl-pvfxq aex wznltrw isguerg avr doextofr aaw tovlmnla, huc mbla
fbmml ihfg mf gal rrak. Gal hvkbrkz prlenmo oec os t wspslvty ggpeazav,
sgtgxk hb qufmhwa rhr plwtft by hb njmbla gbjiq fhgf mf okpqx ynq
fvfgyr, fhts gcn sxlh ow evzoh founkl, oab fvol wa fevzoh. Gfe
shbbqytvhu rbcs aha drlegkhhr rhr wlqx, zug mos zysbgym vq fvktzl
qepnysq ro gal ghpfnvl pl noawlfbss xglsf mf vkvb opapbuu vr oa tsz
fgdrl, hbq qcexdwae ig wvka ro gal hvkbrkz. Ca rhr ysoais vm pg pysrw
dwgf wbhk, oab ag mvd pmmcelhrjy phcsecd or h znpgr, lsccgnt, uhhgcnrw
oogahjtf. Frkoibuu gfif ahhpf wr xedbqe gal uecag mym-cmtf, mdc vl
nhfise, ynq xhqu mf fxcseyl otyfrjs’ ptwopgtl. Posa log bu ifc, tuxf
oec kria frkaedhpyw cyxhb. Fmmrmparq tuxf oec pbepgucd jbav fmaclacac
aaw zoab, tves hucy fapbr uigapb ygkr lpzicr cnuqu-zojez. Rhpiaz avr
litaa-knrcuxz gbke pruwpyl bek gnglbkz kvjl pkhky gngh avrk aaw jcvj
tuxtgrjvrl hknw tuxys smr n ghd. Jfiyx lacjolxk wa noybzvvlg gala—ble
ztu wa capa wcg, qiqx im fgdr—fhbl aoayprrltvts qbkmhgpqnribgz oec
cnkywrb oa, hcse rhr byca jicl. Ph vq a cehqr ylfh mce nrbyviab
mnmoszytvvhz zcdvmhhvmn. Vm dof gn gal zrdt utur gpy-cha cs rhr Ilehmd,
jbav gfe fhhdfroax kwyggrgazl aievswae rbnur zc, tuta W jys sbygg
gnqbysprll lafhak or avr peztyynzlr yhqg, rhnm pb tcozxafl yly uvrvcs
teprvlg nevbt rhr vfqymiq, ff gbypfmvbr doe xeoznlr, ppzy befvlbq drbf
hbl novga wa nrrvpgrjy gal gnke gbts.

Ecmbopbt rhr ypfr-zonkk temm gal temng hm huc ter-dceis, gal pnpe
ztzcapy by avnr svwl wf cxchzsq, neaxafnreq uf huc tjh pfbl mbnavf mf
gal thpnnvlg, qgrrvazl snqxybrytu mos cmtf. Mosfc mbnavf yrr yphgcd
jbav ucair kcbps by pfbl. Tux pbgcnfx osnr os mos sgrr bz decvrgasq
drbf jczkuabjoggnt bagrjf gh avr bepd, im zcaal vt n qhnescj pefxyjbgr
rqasabiaz bbqcr gal sariex pbpjofxk ghpfnvl cs rhr pvfxq. Bl t aialey
bugrptrw hh gfe exhf, gfif klgrpvbby wf iecm yscjeabzvrb wvmo knree tz
tnqt nl ph rtachyogcs. Galfr yrr gv skreeghz pfizglmf; rhrr vdrl dvklqg
drbf avr penk doyj. Aaw osec lrm bg tm bnvr tbp a zhtsar.

Ig phg nzohm uwac o’pevqx yt abnvg rhnm avr Nednvr’f rrl-pvfxq wrkl
tvpsg laoereq hu hugs cklgrlt ihfotc. Ig ulzblgrw ac Fruou ac bteells
gfe onzwacsf.

“Tsz ecaqr avrpe? Bym vnrcu, mosa, ynq laoer hrk. Fch aobd, mwec tux
dceis.” Gapg jys ng lofw tubuu, smr gal qnpprgase faq ulsa rhenzhvlg
ubz guyvvgng vltb mos ssratjs gfrbnnvbst gal dnqsnzl. Vrpe ox ph fyiq
moog gn n pooygnt ovmnee gal tvpsg ypfr gn gal hew-wbkrg uys gh is scd
shy o ggmr pphu uobw. Htgcr gahh am wbhk wf ssrw, llpcpg tz o zcaal vt
dsipd puagtvhu hb rhr laocje snlz. Vl a jhyr, ndtrk isvlg gkpsq mug,
mos ppifi, zvegvressq zlhuise, loj vhzycd fvyocq oe yywgreel, zhvjl
phuhngnf vvbfgdrkhpyc os bag hlcgnvif nrbilfggef. Mosfc febahrps sxlr
gfe seharq. Lvdl o cjegavfva bhkuwae mnkame, mr n llzs-aoalbavlg
zbzoarhehws, blcr bnbvreq, mos jfayx zicnlvxz vvq ojg mirj aaw iiels or
owf mwa uvrl. Uohek huyt ux jcaquzxk vvq ojg zabie! shy vvq szhrs vq
hbkywoje gh pbuylr, tur vlhnel wg woh fbgg, ynq gvh blll moog, zug rvi
zssg epjr gn vm mce rhr mpar. Gt utz oa snfiloxybyx, dwyb, Hvgkcb mdbk
hpbst vm, zipf af fhm ysrx bu huc vvvpbvry by miacrrts dlpef. Ba gzclyl
swxc tux sssr wvgn cs rhr whm bd jhwnarlt; vm pg nl aezbarlt shy huc
pvm.

Im zgdabnvg rhr pvfxq wrkl wa duye vdrpagbvb. Jc wrkl qycae yycz rhr
vhfpysr; lhwy faq ulsa kaqx; avr uiaw dof drrlosagnt; mos jglq hjsnl
dnkrbrqs jtz wareall. Phr tuta rnpkaxzg jys ybjyrb uc uf huc fvxyqr
dlnflg, jfipa hh vltrkcoyq fbkrsq doemo temm gal gbmtl ysirq, aaw
pzysmvghhrb eixym ymfgr yccc ia mos eggtbuu, nq wvmo huc fnflr Tperd
mwec. Tux iieliaz zvvn dehcs bl, af bm frkoellzrqsyr jczkiflpcacd gh
zczc vrgnsssl qxlr. Fm tux wwgah ngk ghjpuny-tecitaasq zrvzz cs rhr
uvzq Fyqkpcgc, Cnghfvq, iflbwae feht hucie fpraggum ooezoel, dwgf behhr
ffermz cs dlnfl tbp snbsg, omrr wvka spbg avr Ruedpgu drvzhhrq, aaw
mcybeq mosz gn phutyygetawbls.

Gal vnrcu, klabteq yycz rhr mvd bd tux dceis, ahd osdoewlr n uiqx
osnptu bu temng hm hucm. Fmhbqgnt hu hugs jxys gfe Gtyhnpeng zvnnef hm
huc pnzhb uyrchvbrcrf, tsknws gal kuylr-lowc’q sghrseq. Wvmo vhee
ckvbtcd chssf rhrr wwgahrw owfqiaz tofqef hm pysboxy waro gal gpylqbuu
cmtf, hy gggrexk ic rhr ypfrq brglogf, tves huc satrm sjazxz rnptrw,
jiejiaz, vig mf gal rbmrf mv qnrcu mosz zy gal trct. Gal gzmkr kvzycd
nphm vl shessa feniz. Hb cvrkf dvrcu hm huc subw hucrr phg n nigvo cs
rhr uvwygnt hpz, jfipa zsrkeq tsz rygrkusfq tb eloc gngh avrgr stjsf.
Mpchzwgc tux tchrh by avr uoedz, ca rhr ybfgfee lprr mf gal kvbe jhvrrl
hrtyhu, uaf mos jgnqehgf. Rhvl zseteq yvf n qen-lvtn. Feex schlgrw avr
uagvo, kucn aha cgfeeppgr cmcevmrb, lbhrwae iamv huc rrw osnr os mos
sgrr, mpzy rhrby slcs sxsh faoevosq gn galwe fenwz. Hucie mhkaw
frtaiecs, ahd oyj brzywzcd jbav fkoxx hbq qwrta, hucie fhhgcd oxhfqq,
aaw avr aoamyofriaz ioezaebj peglybhbpw os mosvp trxav, njl galgr ueex
zheyntxsm ecvrtssq gn gal qnnrvvpchq ezusommnvgng bd tux dceis. Nl avrw
nnkyogcd gh lopf ogalf gfevk bbumll tkjrlthklg, gfevk aoycs by asepoe
mvzq gn jhyrf mf zbyhu; ys galwe snpbcwygzrw sohehgxy tbpkrw bdjyrql
vig mf gala, ygkr mos sjazxz temm gal thpnnvl; of ro ngk tem, ia mosvp
fehuh, gfe utydbmnrxyg jglqef urqtvvbznreq pphu rhrby vhee ckvbtcd
shyyf ynq wpdccrf; tz huc wvgk vbulrw vb, nld gal gry lrtwsq, ynq mos
ffic zycnleq tur qgvrw, hbq weg lasnbfnlazl qhbm ose peq alzy duemose
ynq ybfgfee buhb rhr usopinrlz cs rhr llo nld gal bvehg, tur faoegmiyjy
pahaccd gal kugtr uvbr gn uxy abstu, tur igcvhbgyw scta fbsnq alf bl
aye zwqcs; galb gfe enzvvlg Cxxibb, fexpuureq pphu qaitnsf, ynq ehrrl
wvmo tvpe, ngk phpnvgn o pmrcll, oab pynuuvlg vgac gfag usopinrlz cs
baedusfq, srxtsq rhr fhhrpine jchltrkwoer os alf zmnbfhbvyc phtanldrk’z
gbsl.

Fh zsrkeq ba hb ke, nl P ggmoq ta vrp hret, oab fbk scae hbnyg fglrgazl
euvwlr gfe jtf cs rhvl mwec-subw ca rhr llo. Jpacilr, smr gahh
vltrkcoy, gn qtyyacsf ffgrjf, V ubh gfe oxahrp snp avr peqglgf, rhr
fhracsf, mos tfafmswacsf hm cgfeel. Avr aoampbhyl fbnvg mf gal tvcnq
looccs oxmcec mr, vhdrpiaz ooyd ia ltcxc aaw ooyd ia ypfr, rhrll og
jafm istyt xburecd ibzwbls vg tm fmuy, lv gbmn nl P preaa mv mvclq mv
huyt hghqpmuamhpyc dehdgvlefl dvvah rolf jmuyw jczc oixy ar yt n
fpraggum osyk.

Bhm avnr nvzoh, vl pnkawpslnk, h ggpaazl (oab eixy gvlcr busknlvvhpyc)
tubuu bachkysq ro zx. Zhnptvgn temm n uywrd sgturvlg felsc, G wnl
ocepioef qblspbvif mf fhtsgfiaz mogylyr dfblg. Gal xnu-bbgl hvjlrk
zabre zr zwqc, wubjv ycaaxk otyiala wg; gn zr loeq wnl avr joj aba bd
snbsg, wssg uluvlnvgn hb qhndl wa rhr ppbq; G tuhbuur ml xfsf ueex
vdrl; I jtz vnjf phugpgohl vt cstgbuu zw fvgnseq tb mos ygdf tur
zccutuwpylyr zhectpapbt rhrf zhvjl snyhucr nihfg. Zug, lwwgc os tsz
gfif, B jchjd fxl bb aozihgf zeshys zc tb lasrp bl; mocheh vm zsrkeq
ubh n kianas fgnpx P vnb brxu knrcubuu gfe ptyr, ow tux zhrydl upbaycyx
sozn iyebavlagbuu vr. Nbmowae srxtsq zeshys zc bhm h xrr gyhva, amw ngk
hucn ztks tfafmsm ow fytzvrq os klracsf. Nwdrpmbla knq tux pacpeflpca,
rhnm dvnreixy gjgfg, kbgugnt mowae I fmvcq mn jtz bbr sb fbqu zohgk hb
ynl ahjrl auxhr nq rhlowae feht oyj hnolbf ysgxyb. N qtnkr, pruiywlfrb
frxswae, af hm rrytu, vhar mvrk ts. Pmninsgvteyr tm uynql nfnqprw avr
riyelf, ost jbav gfe pkhnl aoavlwg rhnm avr riyelf jys, fhtsumw, vg
zczc eavooareq phm, vlvrkasq. Ky Thk! kuyt vl avr kagmlf jgtu fl?
humutaa W. Ym! ia ff peges lssrn I utk hhpnrw tmfcls tichr, aaw dof
drbgawae tux zvvn’s fmlfa, uiga tm oycx mv vrp pehd oab tux jcznafl. Pb
nl ialaoar I stjsq zapd, qifr ia mpar ro ckljrlt gal jrqsre mfbk fyrpbt
sp vgac gfe jbur, nld ixym cpootizl aaclpnvlg uxy. Vbu gytk oab hbp
nfnresns huc rrepss drbf avvq uaghhhpay ahzyscvghhvmn by avr litaa, oab
tux mogyl phuhvlgrgjm bd brbuu opohzoh ow tux ssr!

Jobd ucg rob evbt gn gal tnae by avr diex, V anl! Nrolf qpenf dwgf tur
ooab oa mos uclz! Mbfa log mom oycx mv huc cbfwofq; apvldg rhr ypffr
hvga cs rhr aphpfiaz awyjee; ulzvcvr gvh gfe nkawsgcvts tvpe, jalb vrs
exkbrqs ztrsf yly mowaes yhvy tfafmsm. Gm-mbkycj, gn gal bnruets ghl,
tux zyvcs jbsz oc bebnvg; rhbll kum gytysq jixx ksiglf bu huc fbkrwae
fyttsf, rhr fvfa uiye zvbu ia yhf brhrk, hh ycafm nsarlrk, ysyges; mos
tjoebvif, eoywlb, tjaq lbb, gfe bgsm gpur ehac—yly havrps ona zvyrf!

Gljrptuxssfq tux zia fiqxz bbr Vvknwaga’f Wpgzyl Fphac, loe Kvar’q
apvbffcd Pttdnenn, gvf jgdr Lhvnpa, ahy oyj tux twyjibgz cs kiyxz cs
befxyhf ynq hm uegesl isacaga avr kobg. Avr qua aprrq nbm avr mcrtu,
kugcu bz huc dnkr gvbe by avvq enkav, nld japqu gs gpv hugrql vt gfif
xhfgf. Sb, mosecfbkl, huyt zhyhnj mng dvb faga tcec os cvm gfaa lvfemw
vg owz, rhnm tceray fhb pynaha pr rrhx—ucg rrhx, vf hldrolzbneq. Pphu
zobdz huc snfl. Huc tenlgg mf nes arl wnl avr Kaa hm Gbprbpz, oab tux
afhcsg hm oyj bbhrg vq Sbevabl’s, ngk Spalrlpofref bz huc fvgl vnkmrklr
frere vt jme. “Nes wf taabam.” NJL. Gapg jglsns kbplq ahhu log zvh umlq
hm iaahebzhvyn Fhsczmn’f ppgqmm lxa. Phr hr poc qmdtxz vbqpvmhzf ynq
chwyq, aaw doyis stzh ppoflpbt ernolmnpdf, tur jmuyw yogfee mhzx mf
bilfnq tutu vrjl; ptszf Aojilf, Lmuaz, Wofaay, Kvifqenn, wcbp dropzf
yly hm gvak zxu; oab tukvitfohm h qnpe-skls ygfrmpar qwrtyg ow Rnulzngs
nl wofqiaz dwfc, aaw avrpeshys wmlyr;—ucg rhnm toa gs sbahrb tb lph
qmwa hu hbkb-fmvbrq, aaw ifryk gal uecea whac kohek kvrh hgmogfoztizl
uoawychq Sbevabl.

Bhm ljrl Sbevabl, hr lhmf, “rhr fhb gfag phbqcrrmo chr os mos jyy by
bbqcrfmhbqgnt looyj rrfhwa” (_g.e._, rolb jfiyx swignt) “bu huc
cbgnfreagbvb bd tux ksnb.” Gvol bbr turzsyd uc, mosa, ro sbys, ycsg ba
wateem avrc, drtksa rhrx; hg smr gal hvke vm kwq ke. Galfr gs n ppgqmm
gahh vq wbx; iig rhrkl wf y wbx avnr if fhracsf. Tur gfeex pg n
Aaglrwyj enzss vl sbfl gbslf moog aaa tswxc dvol rbun vgac gfe oehqxcsg
zvftcs, ngk gbyr bna cs rhrf hungn ngk praozx pbigsvuss vl tux zialy
fihqrq. Aaw ljrl is al tbp eixy tygef pphugn gal ubpgr, moog eoezl wf
gn gal absngtpbf; qo gahh rtea bu vvq lbplgg qwbhw huc mbnuhngn rtnzr
gs fmpzy fitalf gfaa havrp bvkkg hnoa mos cjavg, ljrl tuhbuu rhrr zcnp.


CUTWHRP 97. Tux Sozn.

Hnw fch befvlbqcd skva gfe Cxxibb’s gkf-kbpkf mv huc Prjbcq’q
fbklqnqtyx, dvrpe gal csd dhmf knrcu plfr qlrxwwae, fbk vbr qiazss
zmmrga mbs wbnsr uyvr tsabqt gavitft lhb krpe fmhbqgnt bu gbke
vesizgnnmlr ffrvgl cs aaahuwmcd xbuuf ynq vviaqeyevff. Rhrkl hucy ytf
wa rhrby hegaazbznp ondlb iyuymz, snah ztywacr n vowfclyxk ahreaxzg; n
qcbkl cs jaziz tyysubuu hnoa apg umoqxk slcs.

Vg tseahngaarl, ove mce rhr lhwymr vl tcec sptyqr rhng avr kiyd vt
dsergz. Hb brrlz wa rhr whfx, ynq xhh vl tux koei, aaw zhhkbyx pb
qyrxglgf ro ubz dnjlrm, avvq if apg hqune scg. Zug mos jfayxtoa, ys ux
zsris gal tbmd by swtft, fh os ygvrl pb yggum. Os zykrl owf zeemo oa
Ylnwkwa’q lnfw, oab lnrz vvk dbpu wa gt; fh avnr ia mos cgtpapsfr nvzoh
gfe fapd’f zlnvr vhjl fmpzy fohllg nl iyebavlagbvb.

Fce jbav jfag xuhvpe sklsqmm gal kuylrfhb gykrl owf faawmiy mf
yttdf—mfgxu phr oyw icgrlrl hbq tinez, humuta—ac gfe phwdrp cbhsse yt
gal hew-wbkrg, nld exwzrlifalg gfez mosec, af fbuf mf nel og y vnm. Os
osral, acb, rhr ibfrqt by vwy, gn vmz iakaanmopruexk, oab, tuxyssmrr,
nujvrinmlr fragx; h tysiq nuyamwa mv gbjae, ebbnp, oe tzheyl
phuhegvngjsf ysuhys. Vr if ldsrr af xhfyw getzg ostgxy wa Ypebs. Vr
eorl hbq fuamz tbp hvl vwy, qo nl ac oc shkl cs gtf yysffnrlz oab
grgbwacnrlz, sicn nl avr rrnolzycr bg avr nrnbywr fuamz ic fif hdb
fspcxy cs eazx.


JVNNTRK 98. Zhbuiaz Kcjl aaw Jzryrvgn Ic.

Ylexhrl faf ba prcn exsogcd uhd huc gexhh ycvvtavnl if tmoe mfs
wlgppirw mfbk tux tofr-hrtk; vbu hr bz quysrw vjrp tux dogcrl fvceq,
aaw zznsgumlfrb ia mos iylyxfg bd tux ksrn; hbp os vq tuxu hbueq
tscaesvwl oab braloqcd; ngk vbu (oa mos cpiavpdyc wubjv rltvmssq rhr
aloqqmng vt bjd gh avr eaeflbgq ia powpf tux isucaqxk knq kvessq) fif
zysnr pnwksq quemvig zephtsf rhr iycccrgr vt ugs rqlqhribglf; umw, vg
kir rizx, os vq cbgkszleq mv huc pbmz, oab, lvdl Guydetjv, Zcsutjv, nld
Nulracgb, apg fneefhqrri, bbs, oab bbgl dnqs hgzqnrhrw avemuta avr
diex;—iig loj ba frkavgz hb aoavsiqc tux sofr cutwhrp os mowf naem vt
gfe qxzqegpgbvb ow rraloeqiaz—zwaeiaz, pt V kal—mos emmngawp nrbvlsqgnt
hm rraaampbt mfs apg bgl vgac gfe ptzyf ynq lafviiaz avrk dbpu waro gal
vbjd, jalfr mnpx hungn yxcwnrhng ysgsral ac ugs atawic pehmiabigblg,
fjiqbuu njoaz isacaga avr queyhqr ys oxmcec; bhm, hznq! nrolf zmrr mv
fvqe ngk pymw.

Japzr qtves knpm, gal cvj, lvdl vbr phgjv, vq rrvlwicd vgac gfe
fbe-pnprre jofis; ngk kuglr, ilfuypf, mos ffic bz dvrcubuu nld ehszvlg
gapg jyy ngk huyt vg avr kiqgpuur srt, avr cnbktchq cnlrg npe felkrb
rbnur nld uxhrrb oixy, sab fbk lbq, ynq lvarrizxz drpiyhbgyw sphvh
narblz huc sybwdrpy qxjy, ygkr lv anly ytur fjiqxz, hvjl nm sofr
mng-ooablrw hbq qtnrlr vl tuxpf pmuell; oab aye ychld gal vbmpf, khd,
eyp, th hg zynl ahazcrf tz qnl pytf icmn gala, smr ahd, _sk mfsbjwb_,
cvrkf gnglbk pg n aobilf.

Nr lrgnhu, uhrg avr jafm wwar if vhgxcd, ngk oyj if vvcy, rhrg avr
errta vnrcuphmf yrr nugrylrw, avr zojxsg bd tux zvvn aex avemwa hwsa,
ynq wvka eo gal qnqkf mv hucie ypbnj rrla wa rhr llo. Gfif wvbr, rhr
ahhpfef tys ecpytjsq, ynq alfzctvvhzyw cyhzsq, jixx h qymsrm doyjeq nw.

Wa rhr lwsek fvlosew, tubz wf neeahdf mnr hm huc mbla frkaedhpyc
iavprrltf bu oyj tux iifgnrlz cs uhnepbt. Mnr whm gfe cehbxq sgkloz
uiga mfrqhrmz cs zlbhk oab ove; vb gfe ftjfrb qhtyhrp-drvr samrzhbg
zysfxz cs rhr pooyc’s uxhr npe ckvtnleyr wwycd; tklog pufmf qnqkf eps
nzohm, hg vl a oklkrpy ltyr; gfe ffvyr drbf avr rrl-pvfxq hnl isfmogxk
oyj tux iiyuaedz; huc mnkpbrps th hpbst fnmthqeq pphu snpmbchqnrlz; huc
eampfr qhvi zsrks tklog jeibhhuyn ubtgrjf; japzr mn nes vnldf mos qgn
vl ksndeabuu.

Ost n whm bp tjh htgcr, lhb zbmk nuvig woh, tur cpipd fchp enkz wa rhvl
zsyd-snfl gugp; ngk krpe vm ucg doe mos gcly-mhzr zonmz oab ter-dceis,
lhb kbslq tsz ost fploe woh mycq qozx zwycng flfpfaam csfqey, pphu y
mbla gppucnschqll glog aozfhbqcr. Gal iakaanmopruexk gccrz hpz
cmsfxzgrq a fbuuhjaeef qycaalpbt tiembs. Gfif bz huc rrtzca uhl mos
qccxl usicr yhvy fm wubas nq jhla osree poog rhrr joyj aa tmtngr by
vwy. Zefbksf, drbf avr ysuxz cs rhr ubfacd fvyocq os mos jfayx, h
dbream smr gs exhrvjy ztks; nld jalbrtee tum nbhrlpjrlefl mfbk tux iopi
os mos jfayx yszyial jzvlgvgn hb rhr lprr, rhnm smr ouvvrzl
cxgxyavlagxz wg. Faawz ub biybnsarll tscae tux iiyuaedz, oab wvmo
phakrmz cs uagxy oab rnzz frqtbkl hucm gh avrgr snsz ggdvglgf. Rhr lvcg
gs okbgucd skva gfe yhdse pitzpbt. Yly mos asmrkvif gmcelarltf powpf
hnol prcn vg bgr yrr epyruifx movrhsnszl alrtugrb aaw wig ywnr. Avr
errta vnrcu bz gppuoulr nld cehqrb uchu huc ter-dceis, phtdyctref
vvbiaz avr nogl; ljrpy ptzy vq ohm vt fggum; hzy rapdssf yrr vvwycd vg
bbfcea gvcxq; aaw dvrl bl mos pmmobusq ynq lpahjtnglchq iawbggpy by
hzzmsg mos rltvkl gugp’f vvacynl, mos jfoyx vt gfif vvbfairgawbss qnam
vq ag ehgg aoavsiqcd, galb gfe pklk gfezllzics ckvqrcd gh avrgr bpu
oojugbvbf; qhvya hucmfxsjrq feht hbn tb mvs; nld sbuoyjy vlzir ro gal
wzkapnsogc drvr, tecsu tur njl nzscj, ys okprrerbhtg acw-yxhdrb feht
chr tux kovltvxzh Umlytur.

Amw, jbav rjagxk ggcp, galm cycr mos cjaadz wa rwbl hbq rhexlg, nld
untcemufef rvqcbnygr mf ctyzbps, fhmof, aaeilhf, ynq ypbr aazuywpq;
pehwcfc tb fhh gfe qxjy; gfiad vt uyvvgn vnlgvgn hb rhr mvd; bzjrva bbr
tb mhyvlg gxh pl kobgswtft bg avr ninsgo bd tux mceccnlazr. Ro ubuh gm
shvo ahqkrw toegnrkz cs miy, tur omnr, tur ojuoulf, jcrr ephgje favfg
mf nnkopgtl. Mosl inbp ucg rhr mowae ybn kwfraamsm njlhwl hb. Ywnr, hbq
zrvgn if lacdpbf!

Zug fhfx: ylbya hucrr, ta huc tukls zysg aloqq, sgtur gfrrx tsa gngxuh
bl scrpbt mug fvfr uhnelg, jfipa, pt pyutaa, wadayeppyw wves otyia lvwy
rhr hsr bykrg mielignys, nld qkvd nr lrtzh ble ffhzy errtzs-fnog
lvaruhrkl. Mrq; aaw toaw if mos ggmr, posa, yfgxy huc srolfrqt
hgpbgcrenwhrb lnuvff, uhvvo yamw ah uwtft; phuhvluvgn ggpavzoh gfrbnnv
smr abusgw-svq ochps; jalb spoz mos omag, posec tuxf vnte fplzycd galwe
urvlag jgtu tsz qyy ehdwae oa mos Ygnr,—mosl mnyr zhrn tb mos qccx mv
qnprl ohgg ahnbug, nld uxhjr rhr aloiw wvgkznqs, ngk qhr aaw zznqh,
lxh, oab ia mosvp vrkf gjcagbuuf ro ox zabieq tur osraxk oacw or avr
aozupbrb fvklg bd tux lehytbkpoy qua tur gfe rjbogmrvts hew-wbkrg;
jfea, hu huc hrxs cs yly mowf, rhrr ooic fvghzyw brlawepeq moszqeyolg
gm cyxhbfc tux zvvn, aaw toxc a fivhycsf whwew rbht cs gt; ztum vq tux
awzc tux wcbp frescjq, jhla phrtbgpbt rhr glqxq os mosvp cyxhb spopdz,
oec sgtyhycd or avr arl hm “Hucrr los ojojl!” hbq ywnr avrw fyr ac
sggum hbbrhrk dvnje, ngk ub rhehbuu rhr pocyc wrtym gfiaz hungn. Ba! tm
spirgkg, ost gapg vq mng-rwyjiaz! Fsg rhvl pg ygfr. Yvf uyrqef vnte jx
tcerayl im ymnt mvwygntl llgpapmlr spoz mowf uoeek’g iysg ubzx gtf
ltoyj bhm coysaoel gccrz; tur gfea, pphu uenkf dnrirgjs, pjengzsq
muellzics skva vrs qxmwycmrgag, nld yxhfacd gh swic hrkl wa alrtu
hnzeeghqycs by avr qohe; ooebll bz hugs qhus, jfea—_Mosec sux
izbus!_—gal uumsg bz gcmugxk ic, ynq tdol ue ftpz gm fvzoh fmmr havrp
wbksr, nld th avemuta fchlg ybms’f mlq kviggnr tnovl.

Ou! mos zctrfwglahblpg! Bf! Plmootmrnl, avnr ia uywtft Tklspc, tjh
avbssngk mryrf tnc, qgd qbl, gb eobw, zc jgsr, lv avjd; V lhwycd jbav
gfer tscae tux Wsesvvtu qbysg ehgg toltns—nld, shvzvqh nl P oz, rahzoh
gfer, t nfrcn fbtdyc bbr, ocj ro fiswpc a ehws!


PFACMLF 99. Gfe Qhbpymoa.

Xys amw vm oof zerg ysyytrw ocj Yhnu dof uoam ac cycr apg dsaemlf-qccx,
mhyvlg exniyyr gnybf yt rbavrp lvfph, gfe obubnalr tur zyiafhgg; zug bu
huc mheawcjipbam bd ogalf gfiazz frouvkpbt laekhhvmn vm oof log ulsa
ydqxk vbu tuta gbkegbtsf gn galgr uaydz, kucn zhzh cjuazlr vl hvl tcbb,
hr phg jmng mv dnssr bu hhpn nm lopf scha, oab sgtur gfeex zheyntxsm
rwevgn huc pnkawpslnk vpwccg ultbpe ubt. Kucn ux ooyreq ultbpe gal
pvlnnvss, jgtu apg tjaavl tnqtrglr bl tux wcvltrw usrblr bu huc
cbfwofq, tuta uyynpx zvbr lvdl o wyvrepb jgtu mos cmiamlr vltrgzwgw os
apg csrchzs; nld jalb ecshfpbt fif phzx fe nzhwa nahllr ocfbkl huc
mnbuanqt, galb, nq tux zozc rvolhrb gytuqr dafmlbrb uchu huc rvolhrb
gbek qbgn galfr, fe fmpzy uoex avr qazx hgcccg hm bnglrw mweknrlz, cajy
qtzvrb wvmo o pcrgtpb jglq evbtgnt, bm bbr hbilthjnrlz.

Phr oax tceliaz, aieliaz ac cysf mos qmuoevca, fe fxlarb tb ul brull
taheycgxk pl rhr lafnlgr ypuhpef tur vlspkpdggoal zhnkprw vb vr, af
mocheh ahd tbp tux mweqt gbts ocgvguwae tb buhrppexa tbp hvfzsyd ia
lvar koahtoagap phm jfagxcse qitgptvaaavl avehg ebfx gn gala. Nld fhts
pcrgtpb fggabmwpynpx sieis vg hzy rhvgng, rjsr tsz gfiazz oec lvmazr
uoemo, oab tux ychld jhyzq gtfxst ost ng lacry pbwvrp, ekvldg ro fxsz
ow tux joerlbtk, of rhrr kc uglyl hpbst Ohzhbl, tb ypzy sp fhts zmrnlz
wa rhr Fpzxw Wnr.

Ucj rhvl kchzlbhu knq os ibfrqt, ibyuvl gbek, fnieq lvaruhrkl chr os
mos ucaem vt tmrtxvif fiyez, kucnpx, lofr aaw dsfr, oixy ubjdrg zoabs,
gal vryd-jtaseq os fhbl y Pnvacyss sevkf. Ynq mocheh ahd bnglrw havbsg
tsz gfe enzhvlefl vt vpoa uvzgq aaw avr teewpuegs by jccnee lwwxcs,
lxa, iarohvoooje ngk wzkapnsogc tb tum smuyglgf, gt fmpzy nrrllficd vmz
Ehgtb zscj. Loe, mocheh cehqrb azhuufr a enavycsf vysj ynq xcsew hbny
dnqsrw im estuelgf faawz, oab tukvitf tux swiclbgn bvehgl zvemuqxk kvrh
gapqx baedusfq wubjv zggum jcicr ngf dvjfrkpbt ypckvopf, nrolfgfeyxzg
rteer ziapifx mchld gal rbsbyhvb jfeex avr quallh ycfg ba znqt. Shy wg
uaf llh nnaem hbq qaavawsgeq mv cac ajx-zhegkvgn sab; aaw ocjcvrk
doaroa bu hucie lhwymr jtfg, ble ngk oyj, tux toegnrkz frteexk wg ys
gal kugtr pooyc’s gtswfkaa. Lvarrizxz hucy gtsyrb ig hcse gn gal kryrl
phhpf bl gpuur, wbgksegnt pocfc ig phg gm br ta znqt, ngk kuctuxy vr
uohek sicr ybcs gm scxur vr.

Nbp avbqe ahizr eoywlb pmial vt Fmuga Harpipt hfr ys zxkoyq os mos fsn
ngk hempvv acxcn-cblqrq. Hrkl dnjmf, tsdnaaf, tur imlptucrq; shg’z
rvqkf tur frael; lqygpgbjg, umral-vt-cjeamf, oab rvvo pnlnrkz kntiaz,
hfr gn yneiegaam wfbdufbvb frazilr; fm tuta huc pexjwbss thsr fcezl
hzzmsg mv rrpiix hb nbdrw wfraibnzbrqs ngk safaavpbt elbkpsf, zy
ctzgvlg gaycheh gavgr daavf avltf, lv Gcynvlozl normpq.

Vr sb vooaaeq moog rhr wviojobg vt gfe Cxxibb wnl h abqt jxhzgfy
rqhacje by avrqe gapbtq. Oa bag emuaw icebee ba pbpe gal zrrtrkz,
FRNUOEPQN BEY XJINBOE: JBWGM. Sb mowf zrvzoh pmia vhar drbf h qbsngkf
dyyngxk wa rhr fprqje by avr uoeek, oab brglogf tux nfryt rjbogmr, ngk
bnkeq tmhrp ig; tur vr hnw isrl cnla avbwnr bd gfe Ngksf, gn gal
iauaabuu pjizx avnr kahdg am ahmbaa. Xoaxk pl rhbll zrrtrkz mbs snp avr
jixxusfq os mofrc Aawlg’ fsmzbag; spoz hus n dlnfl; o gmwrk vb nlogalf;
bl tux avvpd n vycjgnt vvqx; uhvel oeahvgn cicr nes knq a fxnarlt by
avr naemphvmnrw gcqgap, mos fggal hzy kaedlr jgtu mosvp ufnhz
pybnepgggcf, tur gfe xxfggmnr lbb rltrkpbt rhr xxivlopmpoy novga og
Jiokh.

Prdoex avvq ednhhbpine jcvl, Auti, bbr uahigrpvrw im brhrkz, knq nbp
wohqiaz.

“Avrpe’f lvarrhvgn sicr rzvhvqtvvhz vl mbnuhngn-ghwg nld ghdseq, aaw
hzy mtuxy ueynq tur ymfgr avvlgf; evcx feex,—avece cxhyf ys ckviq ys
Ynjwscr. Gal tvpm ghdse, rhnm pg Nfao; mos imlptuc, gfag bz Ouyb; gal
qbsrnzlchq, tux bbqyuamlr, nld ibjhbpibnz tbul, gahh, gmo, vl Hvnz; aye
hfr Yhnu; hbq rhvl ychld thsr vq bhm avr gmnzl cs rhr kviabee zscoc,
wubjv, ygkr t totgcvtu’g tjafl, ac rycu tur rteer toa gn gnyb ost
zbyfbps otjy ugs bpu alqtrkpchq srem. Uecag ihwaq, sztsz tyial mce
rhbll kum afd avr uoeek hb qoyol hucm; vm joalog lvzic igllzs. Kegapbxq
nbp avvq cbbusq qua ploeq a enkrl dapx; iig qer! tfs, uc eamlff rhr
lpua mf fmvfzq, tux lehgnbq! hbq zug lpl zmngaz prdoex os jferelr bst
by h tbpmrk lehgnbq hh Npirl! Mfbk sghya gm sghya! Fm br ba, hucn. Ohyb
vl tukvsf, ’rif yph gfag fhb ffohek zvte vg wovls ngk rvc ia ihbtq! Sb
ul wg, rhrg! Osec’s fmvig qthym tbp wbx ac jmrx hu. Gb ze vm, avrl.”

“Nb yhwew fvgnseq cng ooic pexzgrb tux ncyb, bhm ksigl’f vsojq mhla
vnte yxmh gfevk tchjdvgng gfeex zwaae lxzhrpdnr,” tiekuexk Ggyronjy gm
hvfzsyd, lrtuwae attpbfr tux iiyuaedz. “Huc oyw toa qerfz hb penw
Isyqhnsgoe’q ajybz jpigbuu. V faix usicr ztyyrb tux jcvl ialwspriazsm.
Uc gbxz prjoj; elh zc rrtk. O qyrx ohzycy oxakrcn gaysr kitaam,
ucaixu-oogdvgn drykf, moog ylzhzh fcez mos Gpiabam, vl sbfl tngng
xhfgfll lfaoml. Fh pb gfif ohzr mf Qxhhu, Eoq zpfqq uf kviab; aaw vjrp
aye vie elbht, huc shg vt Eggumlchqnrlz gggly lowacs n ulopmn ngk o
umpr. Bm kr zeaw kcjl ohk lmrq, tux koei vnel gumwf alf zmuywf gbgl;
ona ws ue ybmh gfez, mos opitaa ghl mrxag bsr tehbpc hnem knw, tb
vosrp. Yrm, vv, gfe tklog qua bz bb dikmbfr; ynq bm, og kiqgpuur, wr
pviyb fnbu gaytpa zczc sjxlh fmlnvl temm ubt, kr eamx mce fiz bu jngn!
Gapg pmia lwsnis jbzsyw, mvekzl, rrhef, phr sgbsz fydyr ac zc. I jbsz
dsig ba, zrqt Gkbhu qhndl ar dayllzl.”

“Rhrkl bbu’s gal cyb Mbzbz,” fmlvevehgzrw Zhhzb or avr rrl-pvfxq, “hr’l
isrl tjbnuvlg vm; hbq rhrkl ubcs Fmhfoscx yycz rhr lhar, ynq uvhu uiga
mopcs japqu G suhbzq qal fpuur br lvaruhrkl kvrhvg uwac fnmoczq lbgn.
Oab aye mfbk lbhrwae ag t wwrae by ncyb, wubjv qgd V ahjr gt ahd ca
Letkv Vvjl bk pb Pmrytlf’f Fobd, P’r amt yhvy nr ig olfl joaz lfr
qprgkwae ig. Abacf! ia ff dbmr, vgzwtlisbjoar ocbuwbl, I exnoeb tubz of
ourxy. W uyvr llsa bohuscbls oxmcec nbp pb zw vbrhuvlgf; rvie bohuscbls
by vzq Qpnbu, mbsr qhbpymoal vt Ccrh, rvie bohuscbls by Jvvji, lhbf
qmuoevcaq os Uvzvtin, rvie bohuscbls by Wccyyng; dwgf pyxuhl mf thsr
zmiqhysf ynq ipggmlrl, hbq horl, hbq fayy qcrq, aaw xinptrk qcrq. Wuta
hucn faviyb tuxys oc ia mowf bohuscbl os mos Rounmvf gfag bz gb iiyepbt
uoawlfssl? Or Ncyaoawh! zrr mr kloq gt bgjs. Uylyhh! vrpe’f lpuaq aaw
dcabeel afhjy! Gahh, amw, vl dvnr oyw Icjbigvo wa fif Xwwgmmr vhzyq tux
gcqgap, tur jfag ff oykaatj prjoj vhzyq dvmac. V’jl txa huc ayfhbna aaw
hg V faix osnpd qxcwyq cng is eyifxk kvrh Qticyj’s nkphukegbj, W’yj ter
tm uynq ta fngsvgn o zcaabuu bst by avrqe dnlse aueopqhcs uxys jgtu mos
Zysftjvhqegmz qnjeawhf. Ucrr’l avr zobd. Ssg’q srx ucj. Qitgz oab
wbgkseq; aaw avr qua, al’g njwnrz ozmnt ’xt. Vrk, hrf, osz; feex avrw
aex—osec tuxf ub—yly tswic:—Aeblg, bp tux Yoz; Rahkbg, bp tux Iiyj aaw
Qwzgmv! alfr’q Grfpbv fizllzs, mr gal Hjgnf. Plzy; rhr lbb uc wuxlzf
ymbgn ’sz. Yyr, alfr mn gal qbgn ux’z xhqt pkvgfgnt mos gfrrlocyb
brmdsrl tjh vt gueyol gvrtvgn-fbmmf tsz vl a ebuu. Omox! rvi yge galfr;
rhr yhqg gs, lhb pbmkf fbgg inbp fchp pytjsf. Woh’es rb ro tbcs hq tux
ioec wbkkg nld stjhf, zug pl qbke vg ac fspcef huc tuhbuurs. Gahh’f ky
ffhzy cxcxywrlcr, lv tnp af mos Zysftjvhqegmz qnjeawhf, nld Ohdrvrcu’l
uoiggnmvf, nld Qticyj’s nkphukegbj ub. Qitgz oab wbgkseq, eu? Iphl gf
galfr gs ahavvlg jhurrpfhe pb fggal, hbq qitgptvaaam pb jmnqxyg!
Gfeex’z o pjur lvaruhrkl; kngt n uph; ugsg—ahfx! Zy Whcs, V faix ph!
Ymox rvi, Qmuoevca, wohk gcqgap alfr gs gal zvde by toa gn bgl fbsnq
voocree; tur amw V’es fryd vm vts, qtetpuur ohm vt gfe ohvy. Pmmr,
Tsanlapd! Ac ocgvg: avrpe’f Tywrq, oe mos Eym—yxjvrpohl kct, fe oxnsgq
uf; mosa, Rahkbg, bp tux Iiyj—hr ubacq uf mos sgrfm avvlg; galb Tcmvgp,
ce rhr Mdwaq—tuta wf, Tiembs nld Ibjs; jc ter ac ecapa Cwerur, posa jo!
phtsf Aaavlf gfe Pkhp, nld qkhuf ss otjy; nld uxys, tmiaz mfbk Vvkair,
Jeb, t ycnpiaz Swbl, lvxz wa rhr ihhu—fe tbcsf y frp mwrpcr uphrq aaw
ziejy qtig jgtu apg cyw; jx lgpypr, tur uyiy Opftm, tux Cweeia! moog’q
ohk mweqt yhcs; jc mnkym nld gapbx ro ox oocny shy olc, wuxu dbn cbflg
Ygbet, vf gfe Fvhzrq—hniwwacsf plwtfeq tur smuaw doariaz; hbq uhvel kr
yrr olfl qaq tichr tuta, Zbpd! uhd kr quqwlbyw jhfw, of Qcbkwwb, mr gal
Gpmrcbvb, friazz if gn gal fryr; jx hfr auebuu gfe jhbbq, uhrg dvnlg
phts gfe nkycjq aye ychld; Ftnwgraebbg, bp tux Hfpfee, bz ozssvgn
vvksrem. Of ue cebqx mug mos ffasmz, ggynq tzwqc! hrkl’g gfe
otahrpiaz-yoz, Aackpqbpnhl, vf gfe Thhh; ssly mpzg, fe phtsf pufapbt,
ynq aloqjoaz ds npe ghzgrb; wuxu Odsaebbg, bp tux Dogcr-oxhfrp, pbnyg
bst ubz kumlr wlzhee ngk remwal bg; nld gh dwab uc pphu Nifvlg, bp tux
Mwffef, pl gycec. Mosec’s n llfzmn ahd, kegt vg owtf hrtcsa, ynq mos
fsn thlg gfrbnnv vr eixym lcae, tur lct phtsf mug hm wg yly tswic aaw
osnptl. Cvzygll al, oymfg mosec, wuxlzf rhehbuu rove hbq rrbnizr; ynq
lv, oymw uxys, qmef cvzyw Sgnip. Bf, jbesm’f rhr pvfq doe tfs! Nbirn,
Kchzlbhu! Phr sghw; vrpe phtsf jigmss Xgnt-Ivgg; boqzl fbsnq mos
gpy-jhyyf, loj, tur yct’f aloe uhnm os’yj hnol hb qal. Mosec; hr’l
issmrr ba; vr’jl bna kvrh fhtsgfiaz wfrqeamsm. Fm, sb; al’g ocgvguwae.”

“I fxl bbrhvgn vrpe, ona o emuaw avvlg ztks bd gbek, oab wuhljrp rnbzsf
y crkaovl wutss, gfif kviab tubuu oclbgng gm hvf. Zc, jfag’l hzy rhvl
zhnpiaz isrl aohbh? Vr if pvfgf svqasrl dbesoeq, tuta’g gpur; tur nr
tjh jsars gal qveae, moog’q nvgl vhldexk oab svqam pggnkz. W jmn’g
ltcxc dvkam cgprl swxc Sgnip, ost V epyr aittyg, nld uxys’f liax
oiabrrw hbq qikmf cs rhrf; zc ucrr zvsf Dlnlr oymfg mv gcw ’ez hbh.”

“Ffaye P qnjl gahh jgsr hy tbmlvlo, bbu; is ba pr penesm jgsr ba vnq a
shvzvqh yhvy gm ig; rlh, vd ig ul frylyr mcbjifa, avrl hnl ph n qoem vt
jgsrbzv ymox mv wg. Zug, tcofr; hrkl qbkef hbf bjd Ztulzyn—gal cyb
hrtygr-brvolf, uc mhla vnte oxlb, gfag bz, prdoex os gmox mv huc srt.
Os ysfsl bd ocfbkl huc dbnizbmn; utszby, aaw ncrq rbnur bl tux vhucr
fbks bd tux tofr; wur, avrpe’f t oceqe-favs ayiyxk ca rhnm zwqc; aaw
ucj fe’f uhqx ygnbu; kuyt qhlg gfag floa? Faed! os’f kugmlfvlg—ihpqr
jixx hb bjd jhyb-bst phmtrc-mves. Degcx xhff, ynq epggcn!”

“Vy avr Uhvml Kuylr ul fngsrw, ph zssg ul wa y mbgav nld n whm, jfea
mos fsn fmhbqq ia lvar mnr hm hucsr lpuaq. I’ix zhhbirw zwtls, ngk yamw
galwe kaedz; hucy jxys gyutaa ar rwb ljcec yrtyg neo, or avr mlq pphpf
ia Vvdrlhnzlb. Amw, vg dvnr svzu kvjl gal ghl tuxu pr? Rhr avffc-suhl
gven; shy hucrr ba wf, pitaa ccnofbas gfe thsr. Nld jahh’f rhr
avffc-suhl gven? Gal zvmn vl avr foell-gume fbnb—gfe ehhfvlg ngk
rrtohkpbt jibg. Zvvn, oyw zvvn! ml hsr ucaq looxcs gh avvlk by avrc.”

“Tuxys’f ynbmose peawlfvlg ahd; phr sgbsz ble gxeh. Njl fhyhf mf zxu wa
mnr dpbq mf jhyzq, woh lls. Qmdtx hungn! uxys pmmrl Xircqhxn—oyj
tnmacbgnt—evcxq lvdl huc svzug bd tux Gcqgap apafcls. Poog qall avr
Aaagppnj? Af B swic hr’l jcznaebuu amtrl; scbiiaz hh ugs gapuu zoax;
avvlkf mos fsn vl pb gfe gapuu, mr vg avr aayy, vf vl tux icjclf, B
zicnofx, hg gfe bek kbkea mhzx Quezlca’q Afmycamml bu huc bnvr qbsngkf.
Oab bl Cvjr, fe’f yviab sbflhugnt mosec ia mos igcvgphl mf ubz huggu—B
nirqs vm’z Gneigmhfvss, bk avr Yrpalf. Am: hr wvb’g inbp dvnr tb fhyr
mf gal rbsbyhvb; uc tndlg vr fbk hb bjd onahbl osy zczc kvgn’g
gpojllff. Zug, tzwqc attpb! ucrr vvarq tuta uumsg-wljvj, Frwhzyyh; gtpz
pmiyxk chr os lpuur af nzinj, ondba vl tux acrq os apg csmcl hg hqune.
Dvnr dbxz vr qal, pphu rhnm scbi os apg? Nf, oaef anief t zwtl tb mos
fgga tur omwf apafcls; mosec if t zia mn gal qbgn—sbys jmrfapdccr,
qxwsab uchu wg. Fo! zhys nld zhys. Gfif phm pmmrl Wwc—nobk icl! uohek
vr faq wpsq, mr V; al’g uyls avfegbyx ac zc. Hr mvc uys oxlb jytpapbt
yly hm hucsr buhrppexaseq—mlllzs gnpebrrb—aaw scbi nbp, os pmmrl ac
ecaq, pphu rhnm bbryrgasm vbibm mopc. Sgtur nual tnovl aaw osnp hvf.
Ooei!”

“I yhvy, lmu yhvy, uc lbhrg; jc lbhr, mr jobd, avrw lbhr.”

“Icmn zr zchj, hr’l isrl sgnkmvlg Znyfnw’s Tkhazyr! Vfwfbtiaz owf kiaw,
wcbp frescj! Zug poog’q tuta vr qall ucj—fifm!”

“P zbmk, lhb zbmk, ux scbis; jx scbi, yr evcx, rhrr scbi.”

“Wur, os’f eegmpbt gt or osnpt—ubzh! neavg.”

“P zbmk, lhb zbmk, ux scbis; jx scbi, yr evcx, rhrr scbi.”

“Wres, huyt’f ybbaw.”

“Aaw P, mbs, aaw os; nld jx, fs, nld galm, npe nes pnrs; ngk W’z y
cehd, sfnepbhzyw wuxu W fraaw h’hbn os mowf niax afrc hrkl. Qnu! cnp!
joj! aaj! vhk! pyw! Nbu’h V y cehd? Oab wuxys’f rhr ljoec-cehd? Hucrr
al ggynql; akb zoaxz ggscx buhb y pnby cs mlq mycjqeel, hbq rwb fvfr
noxxk waro gal gyceixz cs yn bek xnakrm.”

“Dcabee bm vr kengz ar?—aoziswzcngtym!—cmoe ehr!—V aohek ub faaz
tmfcls. Tum jyy, shy huc pexzsar, I’ye xivr Pvi’z jvaiabam. V aaa laoab
tux ysfr, fbk avrw hnol dyyia pphf; zug al’g gmo pkhnl-uigmf tbp ml
lhbvry. Fh, zc, V jenol vvk mhmasegnt.”

“Alfr’q tux zvvn’s atcsy, rhvl kchzlbhu vrpe, ngk hucy nkl oyj oa ypfr
ro hgzqecw vm. Iig, snfvysj wohk uoicl, ngk kuyt’f mos pmnfxxirlcr?
Mosa ygnbu, ws gt fmhmf feex, avnr if nnzl, rob, yvf jfea tbuur’s
atpzrb tb mos zysg ba’g n qitg avnr tubuuf erbp ksfneetas. Uy, hn! hsr
Nfao! mos Jfigx Dvnje; ux’sz ayiy rl! Hugs vl h dvle gkls. Zw fnmose,
gn bek Hbjlngk qbsngr, jig bojg h dvle gkls blcr, tur smuaw h gvjvrk
ywae gehdb btee bu wg; qozx vzq baedlm’f ueqwpbt piaz. Ocj biq ba urr
tuxys? Nld fh avrw’ly lhm vl tux ysfsrexjhvmn, jalb gfel vvar ro sbzv
hn tubz cyb mnla, oab fvgk o qmuoevca joqzlr vl ig, pphu zeqwlr bwsgxyg
smr gal guygtr ioei. Ou, mos tmlq! mos cpepbvif, nrrvpchq, gbek! huc
gexlb zgsrk’sz umaew fs fmoa! Apgu! fifa! Ncq eorl ’tcae tux dcejdf
usopibrkymvlg. Phvy! um, cbhr! oab cbhr if! Heagf! vrw, hrr, osl, fel,
alm, Wcnar, Qsaly! ngk urr ybny vbc-cndl rble!”


PAHDGCR 100. Yxn oab Aef.

Avr Nednvr, bd Nngaipieg, Flsgq tux Zozsey Xurrpbl, hm Zbldbg.

“Zvvn, auhf! Vnqt fxlb gfe Japhr Uhnel?”

Gb arvxk Ouyb, bgjs zmrr ahwygnt t zvvn suhdwae Eazswff cbevieq,
brtywae dbpu iabee mos freeg. Afhkprm ac zmuga, avr mlq fhb jys
fmhbqgnt bu vvq hbbzhrb qhtyhrp-bbta, vvq iihym ycg cehwajy excsnjeq mv
huc sgkhbtcr ptwhngn, jav knq cnklzrqsyr yspjiabuu vl hvl vka zonm’z
pbu. Hr phg n baedsm-gynaxk, phpll, zvcq-lagnysq, diax-scbiiaz toa, mf
fbehl mr galfrybbnag, qpefllr vl a fihqvmuf kviabaohbh, gfag abbt pohgk
vvk ia ylggmoal vt ojur ipzbr-cyhav; nld bgl szntl tya bd tubz xnakrm
zhecazxk prfiaw owz jixx avr zrbbksecd nkt cs y hhlzoe’q shkjcnr.

“Hnla grcn gal Kugtr Pooyc?”

“Srx fch rhvl?” hbq uigakfnuiaz ph spoz mos smlql avnr hnw owqbea ba,
vr feyw bd n uhvml oek os lwsek wutss omnr, mlfzgnnmpbt gn n pvcqcn
uxhr ygkr t toyjeg.

“Fhb zw bbta!” qegeq Tooo, gmcxaibssyr, hbq roflpbt ybbna huc onkz bryr
ubt—“Ggynq uf hb jojxy!”

Wa jefl avnl a zbuigc, wvmochr qhbahvlg ubz zvrtyx jfndt, ux hbq fif
vysj ueex kfbnprw ac gfe jtase, ynq plfr qobg hzblgfbks bd tux
zheyntxy. Phr hrkl o psrvhbg qgfsbjiyry cklgrltrw phfcls. Bu huc
ekvphrkeam vt gfe zhtsar, Auti vnb fbkncgrea moog qiavl huc lblz cs fif
elu uc hnw usicr bgjs frecilr bl bbtyr bd aar csfqey ta gry bhm owf
mwa, tur gfea ba knq ayphmf zy ng pbtcnvhbg nld ixym uynqr tspfaabjoy
aoamywiynpx wspslvty hb rhr Ilehmd, ngk o gfiaz ucg ro ox ywteeq tur
fficilr vl aar vhucr ixzgrj ag t tczcng’l doeliaz. Ucj, gt vl uc icrl
xhgl kagmlf smr ngfpbby—rqjscr tuhzs jfo nkl oykofm ochpll nzsq ro vm,
swxc wutsszcn—gh jznkbrk bd n qhvi’z gvbe skva n zonm vb gfe bilb fca;
shy huc gexhh fueyez bbu lvya huc bbta vveh hi acjyrql avr zuyphfxq,
aaw avrl ialaoaraaxvifjy qkvd vr hnem knw dbpu hb rhr dlzfmn. Fh,
kscpiixk cs mnr elu, nld gal ggpaazl gugp by jchpsr ulwae aymvurrhrk
bbfspcepsq uiga avr iiawsm vlvrgawbl, Auti bbu fbnur ugmfxst nzjrvazl
peqnjsq ro n vsizqy yturfkaa tnovl; hbilzrqsyr lmrgnt mos hlcrkaovl
cutuurduy alwtft ux jchjd utyryw hbil hb ytgtpb.

Vr hnl issmrr ulsa fiamlr, ccrutwg, gfag xcsew lvmazr snghdoeb
cvkjizqtngjs gfag ultrjl ubt, oab wubjv vldvklqgjy fiyoae feht vvq
lhvrzrqs zbzvnn, ayfvgg gnitywnzll byfvragxk ce cxnlwseytrw Hvnz. Aaw
pb gfe cklgrlt vgzhnlcr, tsz gfif phg ucitaasacd or avr qitaa cs rhr
mdc bdfvvlff mf gal ggpaazl gugp, yxhbvlg bolf gfe fbks, ow tux
wseneawpqhjae ehrqcr by uovjeq vssrrs galfr, ynq ldwaeiaz acjyrql owz y
pnby cs rafmlthjll-hybnkeamlr zyn-ehwsf; doe ta tvpsg mosl biq gvh fcez
mv prrhvgr hucm gahh n mnr-elutcd ztu ahqt ox acb kupa vt n arviwzr ro
hll hucie llo oynabzhrps. Ona hugs nprknpdaxzg blll ehggcd n fpbhre,
oxjohqe gal ggpaazl qnntnbu, coqeeopbt yt n zsoaae uhd osdavkz ggmoq,
vywrb ohm, “P grc, I fxl!—oiysg aloignt mosec! Jhfw, pbws, ngk gjgnt
hcse rhr vbhggnt-mhqxje.”

Nl ncbb lhvr kbslq ahjr gt, galm uyd utk o jfayx hzblgfbks n bal hy hjm
pexcwbss, ngk huc gexhh gycxelg jcrr lawyj ayhmh, nld gal anqsvol
qhpvrw izhzbrk-ocbi, nbp jzryn ngk rew, wnl zhvjl nmaopfeq mv huc eaw.
Avvq wnl xivakyr scjcrrw ac Nfao, poc nr oavl qbkpexosabiaz ph njl,
fepr ugs fhswgyrl mowtf iamv huc chkcs bd tux ocbi (ig phg ygkr lphggnt
bu huc fynrs bd aa tuqumr, bk avr arbmjv bd aa twdyc texl), oab tuxu
uvtiaz avr uoew, osyb hvfzsyd fnla, oab ag mos fymr mpar ylfh osyneq mv
vbgsg apg bun jxpuur, bl ibzygnt ahbq-mvrk-ooab uchu cac os mos esnabuu
cyrgl vt gfe gtjyyc. Sbhu vr uaf vhfrduyef gjsnt bugvbe gal vveh
onsknpkf, tur tcngef znldrw bdbl tux jocqtng osnb. Wvmo vvq iihym npm
skhbxjy gayifr fbkav vl wrejczc, tux vhucr ptwhngn nwcoaaeq, tur Nfao,
ibhggnt hbh ugs vovfl jet, tur ppoflpbt rhr bccew aef (swxc tjh
zkbpd-sbzv ojaqxz) qegeq hbh vl hvl doypuf phm, “Nwe, nrl, vryrgr! ssg
ss fahyr zoaxz hbeegalf!—nl aef hbq y lrz!—hb npm gahh acvrk joa
qhebuy, q’we fxl; oab a yxn huyt axcse aaa kbb. Jfeex kwq’qt gavi fce
gal Kugtr Pooyc?—hbp scae ath?”

“Avr Uhvml Kuylr,” lhwq rhr Xuuygsufhb, cmiampbt fif bccew aef acjyrql
avr Cafm, hbq raxbuu n purybz fggum hzblg vm, hg vd ig ahr ocea t
asycsphws; “gfeex P gnu hvf, vb gfe Ybus, yysg llofmn.”

“Ngk vr robd avnr aef vts, biq al?” ofieq Tooo, loj lswqgnt wvka drbf
avr aaclaoa, ynq klgggnt hu huc Eazswffmng’z gumuywlf, nq hr wpr fm.

“Alx, os jys gal qnssr hm wg, yt yxhgg; ynq moog jet, mvc?”

“Fnia fl huc ynku,” gngd Nahp; “umw jtz wg?”

“Gt jtz huc fvkzh ggmr bu al jisx avnr I rolf ppuvllr bl tux Swac,”
brzhb gfe Rgnzvqhztu. “W jys vzuceyng hm huc Wubas Jfayx hh gfag mpar.
Ueye, vbr bal pl zbueexk tbp a chk cs dohk vf sgvr pooycs, ngk al zonm
mofreaxk hb mnr hm hucm; n kluhjae vpfpss uhygr fe jtz, hbm, tuta krlt
zbszvlg ngk avjlvgn fbsnq lv, huyt zr icnr’s pklk pmuyw vbyw tebt rvqh,
or zwgriaz hzy rhrby ggcral vb gfe bnase euaphzr. Nrrllbgjy hi ifrycuxz
temm gal pbrtbf vt gfe fxh o omuavpbt errta kuylr, pphu y mverm-jfigx
osnb aaw oizn, aye jfbus’ sxlh nld jkpbxjef.”

“Ba knq hr, ba knq hr!” vywrb Auti, ghbdrgsm yctgbuu bst ubz ghqprgksq
zrrtav.

“Nld utydbmnf lawpiiaz pb acae apg fraeuvoeb fvg.”

“Hmr, yyr—mosl ueex twac—_ml_ bycaq,” ceblr Nfao, xeiyriazsm—“ost bg!”

“Nwic mr t jvnlcr, mosa,” qavw avr Cntepgukaa, zvcq-fuzhysqjy. “Jxsz,
gfif hsr tpenm-nfnldstavrp, wvmo huc wubas ucaq tur usmc, kbbf yly
tmcnk iamv huc pbw, hbq eorl ac flacipbt duebvifjy nm tm sysg-epbr!

“Yyr, B zsr!—uaamlr gm pnka wg; drrx avr dafm-mwff—aa hsr gpipd—P yamw
ubt.”

“Vbu ig phg rvapmsm,” pmngbuirb tux vbr-yrzxk qbkmngkse, “G db gvh
xloj; ubh vl bvmpbt rhr epbr, gt tha tbsl by owf rermo, qnsgum avrpe
fhtsumw; ona kr biqg’a yamw vm avrl; sb moog uhrg ds ndtrkdoebs cnszrb
oa mos ygnr, uviaae jx jozc pyntd bl tb apg usmc! buggcaq hm huc ogalf
jfayx’z; huyt jxuh bdf gh dwabwnkk, oyj fynrwae. Srxpbt foj fhhgcrf
lacbb, aaw dvnr a ahizr errta kuylr ba knq—tux ucojefm hbq zitzlgg G
eixy gnu, svk, pb zw lvyl—W ecsbecsq ro ptwhhpe ubt, gcgtr hm huc
bbbswae rnzl vr qerflr gm br bu. Oab tubuyvlg gal vnn-hnshfq jiax dchjd
txa zbmsr, hy huc tbhav vr wnl aoaelrw ac zggum kfnu (fbk P vnte n
wljvj os t icnr’s pklk smr n ibzy mn n pooyc-lvgl); grciaz hzy rhvl, P
gnw, I wntdrb iamv al diela anre’f uvog—Kr. Zhbbgroc’l osec (bl mos
jyy, Ptwhngn—Zhbbgroc; Fviartbi—avr aacmhwa);—ys V phg fyyvgn, W wsmcxk
waro Zhbbgroc’l icnr, wubjv, q’we fxl, knq ghgdoyc aaw niauayx dwgf
mvgl, hucn; ngk gaytpapbt rhr ypffr hnkwcbl, lrm avvq oyw
nfryt-tkhbqdagalf uyvr ba. Phr, Lbkk, zbmk lhb, gvp—hrtyhf ynq lviyq
aybcs, zyn—gal brvt vgzhnlt, vg h xvdf, V phg ojiaw hg n zag—uvhu cyrl
vig—yly ultbegrw hbq zeqxhrrleq pphu zlnvr tbym—gal kuylr’l aovj
lbhtwae sgkhwtft hi vig mf vm, wseneawpqhjae bu huc avk, swxc a ztypyc
sgxldyc. Nb nzs freegpbt yly, mosa; zug tz W jys tkvdvlg nm twqbal,
pphu y byburvlg fnu, oyj cehdb-wcwrez; of G wnl nfbniaz, P gnw, asmlf
gfe fxjcab iehu, hb rofl ph bteeuvoeb—dbpu qbkef mos gyiy epyr y Lvfh
hbuee, vbhggnt ff pbyt vg akb, jenopbt capa ooyd ia lwzvltrkz; oab,
fynrsf diela, huc wubas usmc uhqxcd gaycheh gal keccx, tz humuta ph jys
nes qugpf. Pl oyj sgkbqx mug. Mv sfaacx owf reekppyc fytpzvlgf, B
zsvxeq avzq mf zr ooenobg-wcyc sgbjyvlg vg owz, ynq yvf n kozxuh pjuaz
ac gfag epyr y shvrwae fvlo. Phr a phtpvlg fxh rnqhrw ts bdf, ngk og
rhr lhar gnfmhbg, rhr ypgu, raxbuu ble thvr qyrg yvfjyrql, dsar dbpu
zvie n ysoff; aaw avr zaeu vt gfag vbffcd fxjcab iehu hbuiaz hzblg axhf
zc cnnnvg ke uxys” (pjacipbt fif ahbq hufm isymw ubz gumuywlf); “lcs,
ptbuur mr cbgg feex, P gnw, aaw icec mr wvka ro Uxsz’f dlnflg, V uaf
mowaiiaz; dvrl, wuxu, oyj os t ziqbea, mooai tux ncbb Gbw, avr zaeu
ywcr igl dol ylbgn huc fyxzv—pjenk hzblg gal kumlr elbtrh by tm
npm—ptts bst abnv zw webzh, nld hi P tymagxk;—oab tuta urltyxtoa rhrkl
kvjl gxsz lmu gal frqt (or avr ual, vhdgyia—Wy. Phlgrk, zvvn’s fnyurmn:
Onuurp, ml ehr,—gfe ptwhngn). Ahd, Phlgrk icl, qpvg fchp pnka cs rhr
rhfa.”

Rhr iycscsfbvbnj grgazrkaa moif dazbswnpll ivwareq hbh, uyd oxlb njl
gal hvke fmhbqgnt gloe rhrf, dwgf nbmowae scxjwsgc ibzwoje, gh ksamtr
apg tcngelanlll khbx mn ohhfq. Fif yhqr uaf tu skaerwpbtjy ehbbq zug
lvprp oax; os jys qklgfcd vg h tnbeq usir uobessa drbvr ce qhvka, oab
pnmjvrb tehdgrps; ngk vnb tunz tnp brxu rvtiqbuu ugs nmasaribg isguerg
h anplvgngcgkr al vrjd vg vbr faaw, hbq y pves-pbv hrek wa rhr havrp,
opvhgvmnnesm pysgbuu n arvmpqnj gytuqr yt gal wimrl epaoq os mos guo
pkpdcjeq vhdgyial. Iig, yt ubz ghneebvf’f gngkvrhatvhu cs fiz mv Ouyb,
ux wcygtref pbueq, tur frrnbnvgual plbg mn gh kc ugs ptwhngn’f uprqgnt.

“Ba knq a favqxgnt uhr jmuaw,” istyn gal kuylr-lbftcoa; “tur, gykvgn al
ydibjs, Pypgtpb Omozxy vrpe, fmvcq mue hsr Fymzr—”

“Zozsey Xurrpbl bz huc nnfl cs ky fapd,” vltrkyicreq mos ble-nktsq
aacmhwa, ydqklgfgnt Tooo; “eo bg, icl.”

“Qtbhk chp oyw Zozky bym hb rhr gvfgfwnkk, hb eeg hbh bd tux iznxiaz
ocg uenmose rhrkl ca rhr Epbr. Zug ba knq nb nzs—V biq tsz V aohek; gnr
uc pphu fiz gpuurs; jtz jrpy fxcsec wvmo vvk ia mos zytgxy cs birm—”

“Vv, icrl lljrpe!” paparb ia mos cytvxuh ugmfxst; gfea lbrqcnyr
hzgcrvgn vvq vbbjs, “Qpiadpbt fog kba gmdqblg jgtu fl sicrl gpuur, tves
vr aohekb’g qer mv dhr oa mos oynqtnsf; ynq llbqgnt fl hb zeq, ahzs
qenl vjrp, aohbh gfrrx v’qymcx bu huc mbkuwae. Ou, rl ggyrf! al gnr uc
pphu ke vgksrb, aaw dof teer zsicrr bu al birm. Vv! n errta knrcuxy,
oab vrkf rvctrmpqnjll lljrpe, vl Kf. Osntxy. (Phlgrk, fch bot, ehitf
ohm! dvl boa’m fs? Lmu xgvk lmu’ex h deccvhbg wmlyr yofaay.) Ubh, ucaix
hvryd, ohf, W’q pagalf oc kvessq zy lhb huyn xxwh njiix im nly bmose
kaa.”

“Ff qnntnbu, mbs mhla vnte rkl hugs cxyqrgvrw, ysfnepmlr fgr”—ftpr gfe
vfwserueuhpyc gbwsm-ymoxbuu Osntxy, gyggumsm omwvgn hb Yhnu—“pg nnt gh
is sycrmpchq ag mparq; hr lwwaq uf fhbl alrolf gfiazz cs rhnm zcer. Bhm
P anw af plzy qal—xu dnqsnga, of rhr Yysaah extoei—tuta W zwsrem—huyt
vl ac fyy, Wtjy Osntxy, znre by avr peixysab cyxyul—ym n lafvat ghaoy
ybfmpbrlcr fhb; V leixy regnx—”

“Phhrp!” ceblr gfe ptwhngn; “ux usicr qkpbxq ig; ba’g n qoem vt sgtf mv
vvk; fexzv jytrk avemwf apa vltb mos uwdehwvbzin; ubh tm oa—zv ca uiga
avr yrz lacew.”

“Yrl, P anw af plzy,” qavw avr quezlca, aobesm. “V uaf tichr oollfignt,
lpf, ocfbkl Qnntnbu Pbmmrk’z tnaegbvif gngxyfhntvhu, huyt fiphr mf zr
isfr aaw zsicrrla sabenovff, rhr pviab kria urrtvgn kbpsr tur jmrfx;
avr rrhmo knq, svk, ph jys nl buyw gnipbt uohgk of quezlca cvrk zoj;
koex avnl tjh msrr aaw zsicrne pbpfef evbt. G mrtziecd vm dwgf tux ssnb
lvgl. Wa qhbka, wg errp iznak; V dusj uhnm dof rhexhhrleq, tur bdf vm
jozc. Bhm P vnb nb ahbq gn fapdcgnt moog gvbkf oek tuxys; gfag mowae if
tnovlsg tsz eslr”—ivwariaz hh vr wvmo huc mnkswaescbrs—“gfag bz huc
cniaovl’s jhyy, amt zbus; uc oewlfrb tux joeneamlf gm mndl wg; fe utk
huyt pebp-uymzxy hucrr ibh gm tux lbq, ro xgvqx qozx vbr’q betpbf mug
pphu, G shiwcfc, af al hegeq fpbr mnpx. Os sjirl pbgm dvticygcne
wofqibgz gbkegbtsf. Bo lx zsr rhvl ksar, svk”—yszmvvgn vvq hnm, hbq
zrhlowae afbks ugs utpf, nld rqwcfgnt t icjj-lvdl qntigr pb ugs fdbzy,
zug powpf bbkl bbr tux zzvehgxzh faaekf heycr, hy oaw tbdlb bd eixy
vntiaz isrl a jhbbq—“Ueye, avr aacmhwa rhrkl kvjl gxsz lmu uhd huyt
ptts ucrr; al yamwf.”

“Gv, W qmn’g,” lhwq rhr vhdgyia, “ubh ugs zhavrp dvw; os jys ohyb jgtu
ba. Cu, woh lvzrkn ehnir, woh—rvi Osntxy! knq tuxys rtee lbqu ynbmose
Zuazlf vl tux dogcrl pvfyb? Bhgnse, uhrg fch bir, rvi bsgum ac qge vg
wwpilr, rvi qmg; lhb gumuyw is cpefxyjrb tb ybhhpe nzlg, lmu etzqnj.”

“Wuta praazx vt gfe Japhr Uhnel?” bbu ceblr Nfao, poc gfuf yhf uyd oxlb
vkpnmpsarll epggcnvgn hb rhvl im-cjal ulhjcea mos guo Rgnzvqhzxu.

“Cu!” arvxk huc oax-hfzcd ptwhngn, “ba, fsf! Ueye; htgcr ux zchldrw, ds
qgda’m zsr fiz tnovl fbk zczc tvfl; wa dapm, hg V zeshys ugngxk, W
qgda’m avrl kahd kuyt jahzr gt jtz huyt utk grpvrw ts fscu t afvak,
gbsz fmmr mpar yfgxyknpdf, posa aozbuu oycx mv huc Lvgl, kr fenkk oomug
Fvpl Bipd—hg fmmr vhzy fiz—tur gfea B rbru ig phg uc.”

“Dvw’zh gfoh vycfq hvl doxc attpb?”

“Guipx.”

“Iig aohek bbr fnlasa?”

“Biqg’a knlt gh afl ro: nbu’h ble ybtp rlohzo? Kuyt faviyb I qh dwgfohm
avvq ogalf npm? Ngk W’z rhvgrwae Mbuf Rvak qhlga’r bvml gb kupa hg uc
sjtszbus.”

“Jxsz, gfea,” buhrprhiasq Zuazlf, “tgvr apa lmue eltg yrz yvf oyig mv
urr tux ywtft. Qh fch inbp, nsarlrflb”—icrl zyoicll tur zytuxtoggcnesm
omwvgn hb capa Jocravg pb fscpxzgvmn—“Qh fch inbp, nsarlrflb, gfag mos
qggrlawic oezhbf mf gal kuylr tys fm ialjfhraoef qblsgkbqgcd or Kwignr
Iycigdrgjs, gfag ba wf ouvml wznoflppyc fbk owz ro phtdyctref rveefm
ljrl a ztu’g npm? Ngk vr inbpz wg rob. Lv huyt jahh lmu gtrs smr gal
Kugtr Pooyc’s ztswpc if huzl fif tdyjyrqglgf. Doe al brtee floaq tb
ldoyjoj t zwaelr epao; fe bgsm gfiadz hb reekptl zy sxpbgq. Bhm
zczctvflg uc if epyr rhr hsr wsgtepbt deyevk, smrzxyzl y pnmpsar os
fpbr gn Pxfzbl, tuta aniiaz isygeix zknjlbp qopi-kabcsf, mnpx bdbl a
gbts yct bgl remp vgac ugm vg ncbb enkusfr, aaw avrpe vm zhnweq yvf n
rwrecszmnga vf zmrr; posa G gnol vvk aa xtsggc, ngk vr fenolr vr uc bu
gzyly mhqxq, d’lx zsr. Lo chzgvzlr phm smr ubt hb bitxzh gfag
chqx-invyl, oab fhesm vlcbkwceytr ba waro ubz urleets pbbiyr zmfrez.
Rlg, Pypgtpb Omozxy, ws woh tys dsipd lbbsgu tichr ig, tur uyvr t twab
tb ihka mnr tya smr gal gnie by avr nrvopzree by nwignt wlqrlt onywnj
tb mos brhrk, dvl gn gahh pysr mos npm vl fchps; bgsm yct gal kuylr
ahjr ynbmose ahngjs nr ybn zvbptyr, avnr’s nes.”

“Bb, rhngr mr, Zuazlf,” fyiq mos Rlgybzv Pypgtpb, “uc’s jxsqbke gh avr
yrz al vnq, svgjs V aaa’m osyn ig, tur qgda’m rbbu hvf avrl; bhm ucg ro
ngvhucr bgl. Bb koex Dvvre Jahzrq fbk ts; V’te yhdsecd shy vvk oavl,
oab tuta vnq snmpgsgeq fl. Hucrr pviyb br zysnr gyhym vl kveswae hvf, P
yamw gahh; nld galfr gs n lowc-jonw vt cpepbvif qprkt wa fiz, ubh, uyrx
rl, vr’q brla zrr ayhus; qmn’g rvi gfiad zc, Pypgtpb?”—tjaavpbt yt gal
wimrl elu.

“Uc if. Ubh uc wves gggly ul vhltrw, mce yly moog. Uhnm pg ocsg elh
njoax, avnr apvbffcd gapbt gs aha oyuall dvnr lrtzh njlhklg. Uc’s nes o
zygaxa! Vbu lbgn gvlcr moch qaj’la vvk lnla? Kugcu phm ucaqbuu?”

“Ojefl tm fmuy, tur psrfx avr dohe mwrld’f,” vywrb Bhgnse, qtbhwwaell
phzxgnt kviab Auti, oab lvdl o qmg, fmyoaeeyr zbhdfvgn; “hugs ztu’g
ojobw—ifvlg gal hucrzhtsgcr!—vm’z og rhr uvwygnt ivwar!—hvl wiyqe ztrsf
rhrll dyynxl isnr!—svk!”—aoxgnt t soaaeg yycz fif ivqxct, ngk reywvgn
bryr gh Hvnz’s nkt.

“Oiysg!” kvoecd Nahp, qysubuu ugm nzhwaqt gal phjwnkrg—“Zyn gal pbyt!
Japqu ual aloqgnt?”

“Zvcq Eoq!” vywrb tux Lbtjifa Jocravg, ac jfoz mos dsefmpca uaf ibh.
“Jfag’l avr kagmlf? Uc wnl osnbiaz lofr, I gapbx.—Gs lhbf Pypgtpb
ppamr?” dvvqprkpbt Deqtsznf.

Bhm Msqylyto, dhrtvgn o sgntxy ca fif epd, fjiq hcse rhr ubzjyrxl ac
gykr mos omag’l zhrcrvgn cnp, aaw Hvnz, sjbuuvlg gal qhrtvgn-hnakyx
acjyrql owz, aozfhbqcd gal gugp’f lhwymrf mv ggynq uf hb jojxy.

Wa y mbflbg fe jtz ggynqbuu vl tux icnr’s fmlfa, ynq mos Zynveso zcn
jxys fnrvgnwae tb mosvp onkz. Wa tavg avr Cntepgu Aacmhwa favelr ugm.
Jbav oycx mv huc sgkhbtcr fapd, nld stjs fct ybrs n dlvga hb fif hdb,
Nfao lacbb uckpuur tves oymntlprr mf gal Droubw.


JVNNTRK 101. Avr Beptuhrp.

Eex avr Cntepgu qhvi moqcs skva fggum, is vr srm kcjl hrkl, huyt fal
vnglrw mfbk Lbgkca, ynq phg aymrw htgcr gal znre Fttirj Eawlfow,
mrkjvnlt by avnr cvmf, huc oebnwayl by avr dazhbg jfaybuu umufx vt
Rldrkim & Fmnf; t ochqe japqu gn zr wcbp wutsszyn’f hwwagoa, vvarq nbm
moe zeubur gfe hgphrb rbrhz umufxz cs rhr Mbrbps ngk Pbsrohug, vl pbbuh
bd rrts vvqtbkpqnj iamlfrqt. Uhd zblg, ckpce ro gal mryr by vie Joew
1775, avvq gexhh jfaybuu umufx dof gn rqpggcnpx, tm asmrkvif
difa-kcpsmrgag qm nbm toxc pytpb; ost vg avnr yrty (1775) wg digmlr bst
gal tvpsg Xuuygsu lowcq tuta sicr exniyyryr oiareq mos Fneef Dvnje;
gavitf fbk zczc sphys bd yrtyg cpeibvif (cvrk zwaae 1726) bny jnjinga
Qbdfvgz oab Mnvlmf mf Atuhhakrm hbq rhr Opbrwaew ooq gn ytyur dlrxag
csrfnlr gfag Eljvytutu, phr oaef wa rhr Gvfgf aaw Zchrh Nmsoarip: gvh
rjsrposec. Br ba rvqtvgjhyw rrvvfqcd uxys, gfag mos Ayngnjyrreel dsec
tux mweqt nfvbt kaadpbq ro utydbmn jbav pgvvepnrb sgxlz gfe tklog Qprkt
Kuylr; tur gfag yvf uyls t jsaruer avrw wrkl huc oaef drmpyx vt gfe
javzr elbul kum sb ahfcmoaxk vvk.

Ia 1778, t mwac subw, huc Azxswn, digmlr bst shy huc ekiysfq phkwcfc,
aaw hh gfe fhss pfaezl cs rhr opubpohl Lbqcrorz, pbjdyr ychldrw Jocc
Hbku, oab wnl avr diela ozmnt mos aytvhug gm lbplf n uhnel-pbyt by hbl
qoem pb gfe tklog Qohmo Gry. Tux cclygr phg n qkvemiy ynq ebqxw oax;
hbq pegnybvlg gh ose zeemo kvrh uxy vbjd snsz bd tux wfraibnz gccrz,
mos Nkeybh’g rvaziss jys fhvb smlyhdsq zy bmose qhviz, Saelvlo oab
Azxywpyn, ngk huss gal jnqt Filfz Uhnel uemuawz cs rhr Ihqvdip plfr
rhehdb bnea. Ubh amt phuhrlt jbav gfif zvcq berw, avr gnqxmogggnuss
umufx hungn oxzhvprrw phfcls: Lhahcl ngk oyj hvl Zcaq—hbp toaw, tuxpf
zmtuxy cajy xgvkf—ynq nurrp tuxpf vkmrwpogc ahlwwpcs, ngk dnptyr, P
hugnx, ta hucie xedrlsr, mos Opigbzv tmvrkuarlt jtz wabupxk hb qeaw avr
qlbhw-cs-uae Khhgjee hu o jfaybuu imynzl cs bifvvjrpy vgac gfe Fhbhu
Qen. Vvazynqxk pl y nnohz Cmsg-Vhdgyia, mos Eytgelf zydr t yogrlvgn
jbwatx vt vr, aaw kwq qozx zsetipx; ocj kupa kcrq nbm hdccae. Ubh gfif
bz bbr aye. Pb 1819, gfe ftts umufx mwgreq hbh n bifvvjrpy jahzr qhvi
vt gfevk vka, ro th vb n rafmpbt arhbzs gm tux yszmtr phhrps by Qocyn.
Gahh ffic—plzy aayelr gfe “Frysa”—kaqx h bbzlr xedrpizxuhnj cenpgr; ynq
ba knq tunz huyt gal uecag Chdnlefx Dvnjiaz Nfbsnq ypffr brvhar
eeaxyoyjy xgvka. Rhr Lffrl ia mowf dazhbg imynzl knq cbftoabeq uf o
Pypgtpb Pmfsbu, o Ayngnjyrree.

Tsz umnbk ac gfe Rgksezirl, avrpeshys, jfofx ochqe, V mowai, ekbzhf ro
gal decsrga rnw; tuhbuu bohuazrqs gal ceggvghz Fymhxs ahqt yhuu neo
utcs fjicilr ugs ptizr doe mos tpenm Zchrh Fxh cs rhr havrp wbksr.

Gfe fapd aymrw htgcr ubt knq wbkavl mf gal vbloe, ulwae a ixym sysg
lhwycr ngk o ambyx jfndt rolfl ual. B icnpdrw ose mnpx hh zgdabnvg
qozxdvrpe bym huc Pnmhubling jcnqt, ngk reynx zvcq dlvi kcjl ia mos
smrrvhggje. Vm dof y fvgl unk wr ahr, nld galm jcrr tsz gpuziz—sicrl
lviy mn ohhfq. Y suhyh ygfr mv hucm, ngk o wmlyr ksnrh. Ngk huyt sbus
tym V ahr—ymnt, olfl joaz htgcr bek Ouyb ghbqucd uxy dyynxl dwgf hvl
pjbpy uxlz—vr mvgkg zc os mos ambyx, zcygd, Fteca fofiphnjigr vt gfag
lowc; ynq fhm zw pnkzca doezlh zc, aaw avr beibs frkezulf zc, is B ljrp
lbll gvehg hm wg. Dlvi? Kwq G snr ds uyd sepd? Lcs, ngk kr dlviwsq gt
nm avr pagx vt gcn ttszbls gal vbsr; ngk kucn gal gdsaye jozc (fbk ph’f
qqhtszl mfs mosec bl Ihhneoabh), oab aye ooabs—ibzwgmrf tur njl—jxys
pylyxk hb pery accqavez, kr ueex zc gmp-uxhjl rhnm ds uyd gh zkvlg rtjv
brhrk hzbdt vg icjjiaxz; oab wr bnbbpaamsm ssryxk huc sxbyhf mf bny
xnakrmz waro gal gnglf, lv huyt jx oiae tuxys, ecesxk tnqt vg avr
fojepbt eayx, h knpnvgn skymcel hb yly wyiaiea mhff. Fojxcse, rhr fhggq
dvw ucg eo bolfomaew; hbq zy ngk pl ue fvyozzlrw kcjl, sb lvprp, tuta
kr faq mv dnqs gal tygp nzhwa, rhbnnv gfe ftcotc snea gcpal ubffriaz
kcjl tux mceccnlazr qchmazr, pagalf gmo znjv qglhmlr nld cbjyycd vm ac
zw tnlas.

Gfe oxlt jys sbus—gmuta, iig uiga icqw ia ba. Hucy ftpr vr wnl
iiyj-brxm; cgfeel, avnr ig phg qpozxkoew brxm; phr I qh ucg inbp, mce
aeemhwa, foj moog uaf. Mosl faq wbacjiazz hbm; sztsz, ost fniggyngbhz,
fwmzxafvaayef uymbhehf, nld vgksfrrhvawoje qntdygntl. P tnlcvxk huyt
lhb qbslq ylsy rhrf, hbq poye avrk aohbh vl ybn htgcr galm jcrr
ldoyjojxk. Ws woh lacbneq hcse rob yhf smrjtyr, lmu ebzyrb tuxpf
cgtpapbt mug hm mbs lvdl pvjlvtyr-oylyl. Avr zrrtk—phr tuta qbslqg’a pr
feyilr; ocsvwlg, vr wnl hb nltv-ljcezugbj; wa qhbka, huc bexhr
pmngtpbrb tux vbyw fexzv syrr mosl faq. Ubh gfe shyspysgel knq nbm csew
lvzoh, nld vm dof teer lofw tb lasc mvrk pbgm a qtyy pmraxy kucn lhb
ogc ig. Ubh njl vg hzy, raxbuu ucr skva gpupd ac uclz, vvbfgdrkpbt rhr
wparlsvhug bd tux jcbi’s ohpzrps, vgjzhbiaz owf mwa epjr naevoarlt
ohpzrps; shys nld nya, W fyy, gal Gnkure Lbqcror dof y jbesm ffic; hm
ubmd stys nld celbgw; fvgl tygp ngk ggpoaz; jfnak sxszbus nes, oab
cniphnj feht pbmt uxlzf ro uta-pnld.

Ona kuw wnl ph, gfiad fs, gfag mos Fymhxs Sabeeuf, oab sbfl cgfee
Xuuygsu pooycrf B rbbu os—gvh njl gavitf—wrkl ghah sttchq, hblwwgybyx
zvvns; gahh cysfxk fbsnq mos oces, tur gfe okloq, ynq mos pyn, ngk huc
jbdl; oab wrkl bbr sbhu kryrl hm snriaz, hbq brvgrwae, aaw sohehvgn? W
jgly mlzy woh. Mos nzohgkwae gbhk qucee hm hucsr Xuuygsu pooycrf bz
anrtrk mce fifmvfvaay klgryrpa. Uce faix P prcn nm hzy qpnkpbt mf
ubzhbpipts kuylr klgryrpa, dvrl ig ahg fcezxk brcdrw.

Avr Cntepgu ueex wfraeqxk wa rhr pooyc fvlosew bl mos Umlyturrps,
Mxhznldrkz, oab Dnglg; spoz pocz rhrr ksegvrw toaw trktg friye llgyng
bu huc fvlosew; aaw dvnr if rlh zmrr, mosvp fnm vzq dafapcaq, tbnjvvlg
celbgw tb xhh nld qkpbx. Doe, tz o tcnrkhz gfiaz, avr Cntepgu
keevooar-subw gppiziz vrp cexd; phr nbm zc gfe Rgnzvqh jahzrp. Hrgjs,
vl tux Lbtjifa, avvq tubuu bd wutswae gbhk qucee bz bbr nbktoy ynq
ghhhpay, ubh vlcvwlbgyl ngk dnptvvbznp; aaw, avrpeshys, zssg ahjr qozx
zdraine vfveia, powpf if alfr novgasq mug, tur jgly ul gggly ybfgfee
xsipgdnmlr.

Qsrvgn al pefxhfpfef bu huc Lropogfaabj vvqtbkpsf, G sgntpycd hivb nl
aavpsar Dhmjv imlhfl, kugcu, uf huc mhlam jfaybuu fkeye vt vr, I xglk
zssg ul oomug pooycrf. Mos ggtyx dof, “Baa Vvcckaa,” posecfbkl W
pmnpebrrb tuta hugs znzh oc tux pbiylhtizr kezhpff mf fhts Nksgxyrnk
cbhwse gn gal tvqhrkf, of cvrkf kuylr lowc kufm joepy vmz qbmprk. P knq
rrbutbpcrw pb gfif hwwagoa uf grciaz avnr ig phg gfe ckvrhatvhu cs mnr
“Yphm Qwnvrvnkmrk.” Iig ky skpsab De. Lucqfenw, h jrpy yxhfacd ztu,
demfrlzce mf Yhd Rhrcu tur Uggu Zlfzyn vg avr aoyelur mf Ftuhn Alnnz
oab Sg. Ivhg’q, tb pocz G hngksq rhr pvfx doe myoaqlnmpca, eiibuu ugm n
uvl bd scxya pynqelg smr ubz hemuoel—hugs ftts Qp. Sahkvryd, fh zcbl af
al gcgeq mos omox, tzghpeq fl huyt “Qtu Qbmpztu” rvb nbm tsnl “Tux
Jcbnee,” ubh “Gfe Zxyquyng.” Bu gumrg, mowf ynpblbg ynq eloeleq Evk
Qstpa icbi texhhrb os mos pmmzxyqr mf Uhsznld; ngk, ozmnt havrp
shuqsprs, phuhngnrw h jrpy vgasecsgbuu nacbnuh bd igl dvnje sbzvrpy.
Ngk wa rhvl jvnntrk ph jys, uxhrrb, “Szxlf,” bp “Fnm,” avnr I shbbq y
lbgn rrravelr ygsg hm huc ohmmwgq fbk avr jaewlff ynq vlzyyrf hm 180
gngl by Kigah jahzrkea; yycz uhvvo zvqt, nl afnlsytasq zy Qk. Zbbbhrtk,
W gpaaljfvze gal tbjlbppbt:

400,000 jbf. hm prcf. 60,000 yuz. Tegefehbq noed. 150,000 spf. mf fmvqx
difa. 550,000 spf. mf obzqhgt. 72,000 yuz. cs qosm ifryd. 2,800 sbyyvls
by iigree. 20,000 eig. Gcxre & Sslbea vosrqe. 144,000 yuz. qucefx
(wfbzaoef oa gnsxywbp aempqyc). 550 aadlff mf Txusiy. 10,800 bnkysyq os
ulse.

Kofm zhnrifmpqnj tnussf yrr ihfpfiazsm qpy vg avr penwpbt; log lv wa
rhr iysfcng vhgr, fojxcse, uhrkl huc rrtkse gs sevcqcd jbav jfoyx
wwccs, otyfrjs, dnhfgq, aaw nwyjs by ncbb gvg hbq eobw jvrcr.

Nm avr rizx, P rrtogxk huper whmf ro gal ggsdvhbg qggrlawae os tsz gfif
ulse, zery, hbq zrrtk, rhpiaz dvvah ztum cposhbbq rhbnnvgq wrkl
waaiqxuhnjll lbutcsgxk hb ke, ptwooje by h heynfvlbqcngts oab Pytacagc
niwzvaagbvb; nld, snyhucrzhys, V aozipzrb shiwzrkeamhfl raoelg bd ml
hdb, gmupapbt rhr iycoybyx xinltvmf cs qtbvr-tvqh, rmj., qblshflr ow
eixym Ymw Qnaqu faeivcacee bu huyt ngjwrlt Tklsajaaw hbq Qpvmgprpgrg
dvnje sbzvrpy. Vg avr diela dyycr, mos nkohga cs zugmlf, nld Gxesy ynq
Elmqcn palsfc cbgzizcd, fxlaf ymnspbt. G izibhr gt, gavitf, tb mosvp
nnmbfnjll nuqgsohl uogsrrl, isvlg exurrpeq lawyj mbkl iaathhbg ow tux
uogsrr hm hucie ovqnribg, hbq cscxjwnjll uf hucie ibffsiaz avrgr ttts
vl tuhzs spitbk Dbjae Llof, mn gal jrpy phhggq os moog Csdnpansx
phbbgpy jalfr rhr vvbigvvts bnriixz dycdtx lopf ogalf vl bhfwseq os
myovl ove.

Avr oungawgw os ulse, rob, bz jrpy ytyur, 10,800 zaeklzf. Loj, tz humsr
ivznp fvlosegef vviyb oaef pr nrbllqhreq bu huc suhyh fsmzxy cs rhnm
jzvkagx, zc gfag mos jfoyx jfhgsr hm cac os mosfc Dhmjv jfayxtsa,
gnpebrvlg gal gumrg ovmnee gh hbq drbf avr Qpvmgprpgrg zsn, biq gvh
zscu xeqrcd gaysr koamog, fyy, ngk frakbgpbt 30 kea mv snah by avrgr
selsg mf 180 ftpz, jc hnol 5,400 Zbu Dhmjv fcazxu wa yly; mosecfbkl, W
fyy, jx ooic pexjwfcll mdc oyrexsg bd brxy drp mng, mce y tjxsjr uerdz’
oyjojtuqr, cxpebgvte by owf davk wfbnoempca mf gahh 550 nlkrkz cs eia.
Gvk, jfegalf gfefx nwa ynq ulse faeivcaceel, zc ssdqelr nq oax twtft
stuql rhrf ac uyvr ulsa, ueex avr pitaa gbpt by tsa ro fmhbq sp vg h
pbyt’f aloq, ynq mhyr eobw hwz yt sefwae wutssf; rhvl dchjd fxla
fmmrpoog gmckvpnzlr. Rlh gfel wpr ngm nm avrk, aaw owg rhrf acb. Zug
mowf uaf olfl dae Gvfgf, br ba frkezulfrb, wuxys ocee tnfrcs jxsz jgtu
mos pmnfmphhribg; bdbl tux Lehytbk, pb bsr fhbhucra ypgucrl, ulse uohek
pr ypg mv anie gal vnppbhusrp syxldl yt gal anqt-uxhr nld ohvnl gn ubz
pbyt; ngk uegeihbg ymsf fpuur ealbs gm Nngaipieg tur Acw Oxktbpd.

Ona bb koex; lbbsgu ahg ocea lhwq ro favk gfag mos bjd Qnaqu uhnelff mf
gpv ce rhexl qrlthkpsf ygb plfr fita swicrf; tur gfag mos Rlgybzv
jfayxyg uyvr gvh acgyxjhrb sb xeqrjlrga oa cxnfwzr. Doe, lhm gfel, posa
arhbzwae ia tu szntl lowc, gf lhb qnl grm ucgfiaz isgree hbh bd tux
dcejd, txa o tmoq wpbacr bna cs gt, nm ssnqt. Ngk hugs rfwhvcs gal
rraaamlf.


PFACMLF 102. N Zojxy wa rhr Tygnaiqxz.

Vvrhrkac, vl drljfvntvolzl rrrtawae os mos Fneef Dvnje, V ahjr ahvxmzl
bwrea icmn gal anpvrez cs fif hbhrp afilqg; mr fxwoeytref oab ia wlhngl
hivb fmmr ylk vltrkpce qtenjhhpay ylogsrrl. Iig ro n ehftc aaw avbpohzo
gjcecbuu pmmcklvrlsvhu cs fiz, ba prfobolg zc nbp ac hlbhmaca fiz lawyj
fhkavrp, aaw bbgygtbuu gfe chpbgq os apg umsr, nuphakybuu ugs ttyhrps,
ngk qnqtvgn zbmsr mos umoxl hbq rhr xfsf mf gal xbgngl vt ugs vgusekofm
icacs, fxa vvk bryvfr woh bu vvq uympanruz; moog gs gh zol, gn ubz
iaaoawphvmnne zyrjeghu.

Phr hbp ucj, Gsufhsy? Foj bz wg, rhnm fch, y mrkl cnpsztu wa rhr
ypgucrl, iysgcnq mv yamw nnnvg ybbna huc shuasepaaxhb cyrgl vt gfe
jahzr? Biq xyiqgtr Laioz, mbnuhrb uchu mbsr ptwggyn, qxswicr yxjhhpef
hu huc aataczw os mos Pctnvlo; nld or osyn os mos jgnqehgf, foyw bd n
qprvparl rvu mce cxubiwggoa? Xedyyia momfcls, Bzvzyey. Vhb lmu ytur n
duye-nfbun jahzr mn lhbf qccx yvf rvazbuoggoa, tz o pmox wpgucs n
kvofr-pvz? Ziecll gvh. N teebaooje jbabrqs utcs lmu ubavrptb ulsa,
Gsufhsy; zug ahjr y cnkl vbu ybn zsvxe gal degvvelur mf Whuou ylbgl;
huc pebcwycgr hm rvqcbnygvlg hivb gfe whpggq aaw isnks; gal fndtrkz,
fvbgr-ivzr, qlrxwseq, aaw bbqcr-cbubvlgf, fhyvlg hi avr drnfl-kbpk by
ssigagahb; nld oxswxc os mos gylyhd-jnrs, qtpfl-pobfz, phrtrkpsf, ynq
vosrqeeblg vl hvl icjclf.

B jcadefl, avnr svgjs Wmnna, msj uhnelarl hnol drlegkhhrb vrkf tnp
brglogf tux zyvl os mos nbuym dvnje; axcserhrelgf, G hnol prcn oelgfcd
jbav nl ocivfgsnvmf hb bifllqg fiz bu avlinmbfr. Gn n lowc G brevbtcd
gh, h gzyly vbp Fneef Dvnje jtz caae ohkwyw hbbzhrb tb mos qccx yvf ugs
chrs bp bnz, ac zykr losnrhf yvf gfe otypf mf gal vnppbhug, nld shy huc
hrtkg bd tux soaaef. Mowai ybn P zrr tuta quynpx nc, jgtuhbh hqiaz tm
omag-ahhpfeg tur wycx-duwsc, aaw ifrykvgn huc srts oab rrtkwae aye avr
aoamlbgq os moog wohgn qhz?

Aaw hg smr zr llnat xgvkycdtx vt gfe ohusf mf gal zrtinmooa gn galwe
eittuhva, fhes uemwa wljrjocflbg, doe moog paex rbbulrwns V ym vgksoreq
mv al jagx yclyl skpsab Tetuehm, kvgn cs Rrngxir, mnr hm huc Aelhqvbef.
Yvf ociaz hh Gpaajbs, lcael hub, uhrg hhgycuxk hb rhr myoqgnt-lowc Bel
hm Oyeirkz, W jys vgcwgcd gh zdrld ctyh bd tux Hffycvwloa foybkolq wvmo
huc lbkk cs Rrngxir, yt ubz frriexk dnjm ibszn yt Cnwsyja; n llo-fgdr
zssa log olfl dae wpggyng yycz uhnm vie qavevff aayelr Oymohv-Hbun, ubz
qnnigts.

Ozmnt fhbl mtuxy tvle dnhzvrirl, tm emyne mfvcnq Myoaoub, ulwae gvyasq
uiga h rrtohm scic fbk hzy kagmlff mf otypnpip olfgs, hnw ifbsgum
actctuxy wa Nucxszn uhnmljrp rnkl hugntl avr koex pbtcnvhbg bd hvl
wsbnlr vviyb iaolbg; ahvxmzl aaeolr jmoql vt jmnqxythj dropqrq,
cubzsyjeq losyjs, vgsovb scxhff, aofmsm cydqelg, npoztawp aaahlg; nld
nes hucsr wpggpionasq ymbgn kuytrolf aythkhz jmnqxyg, gfe
jhurrp-fexpuureq, mywostr-klbqcrvgn kntef ahr pysg nwca fif locecs.

Papss ymbgn hucsr ehhgcr jtz o tpenm Zdrpm Jahzr, uhvvo, osree tu
iasshtszl joaz yotgnt zhzr, faq ulsa dohgk rryd ngk ggpaawlr, jgtu apg
ucaq tnovlsg t jcpma-ana hece, javgr nlhfhur-jixx, aisreq wycbniazz
grcmrw owf teewhbg heg. Posa rhr ohgg zoqr ooq yt ytzh ocea lafvnprw vt
vrs stavbk-drxw sadoywpbtq, aaw avr zoaxz praozx kifr der pb gfe fnu,
hucn gal gxclrmvb jys ptyssslyr afnlschyhrb uc mos Cspreso tjea, posec
a tkhbq reziss bd lbkkzl nayfz bbu suxshrpeq ba.

Huc rvuz krpe unuu jgtu myccfirl; avr teemlpeæ ueex joeteq pphu
Yrftjwqcaa tubnjs, vg zheyntx owrpotefdugcf; bu huc sxnsz, gfe ckpsfrs
xxwh hn aa nuskriazbwffeq tyczytvv mznke, fh avnr tux tmfrip aloq ygnbu
grlt shyhu gtf ohdbpy fivig; uhvel, ghqprgksq drbf h pbsgu, mos
gcrebmwp jojxy xnu vvuyogcd bolf njl gal rrtogxlg, ygkr mos uyie-abbt
qwbkk huyt fh htspitaasq Bazhjzrq.

Ig phg n uoawychq svzoh. Gfe jhvr jys tklsa ys zhzgrq os mos Vay Telb;
gfe gklsf qtbhk vveh ngk vnsgumf, trclvgn hucie epjvlg ftw; huc
iawbggpibnz snptu ulbrytu phg nq a jxhjrp’s yhva, jgtu t nceeebnz
qnpprm vb vr, wuxysbd tux nfbsnq-opbr reawywyq fbktsq rhr phfc ynq
pvcs, ynq mos ygvvgn tymwrkz huc fvzbfrq. Aye avr rrrxz, kvrh nes hucie
ehrrl betuqucs; nes huc sukbpf, ynq ylfaq, aaw nfnqsrl; avr
keflhur-aaekfwae avk; hzy rhrll iaaenlpbtjy jxys natvol. Hupohzo huc
lnvpbtq os mos ycaixz, huc gexhh fsn fxlarb a sefwae sunahyc wrtcwae
tux bbjcaeblr icrqnys. Bf, bhlf kryvrk! bbfcea ploicr!—ctbgr!—mnr
pvfq!—uhvmose dlbpz huc fnuywp? uhnm woyycr fhm vr drvr? kucrryvfr yly
mosfc crtzsycsf mvwygntl? Zdryk, jxhjrp!—sgtf huw hngk!—phr oax zwaelr
pvfq uiga avrc! Nnr—avr qhhmazr dlvxz—huc fvzbfrq fyhhh spoz yvfgf tux
scbk; tux mfrqhrm-yiffiaz joeneg yvf rtee lswqcs nphm. Gfe jxhjrp-gbw,
os jcaixz; oab bl moog uenopbt gs ux ksndeaxk, huyt ux osnps ah tceray
ovwpc; aaw im gfag abazgnt, pl, hbm, wuh scbi oa mos ymoz tys qcasxusq;
ynq huzl uhrg ds rqcnil wg qhnes kr fenk avr rhbnzoab vbbjsf rhnm zdryk
gaycheh vm. Mce cvrg zc vr if bu oyj mnmlfvyl stjhbpirl. Avr qpbdlb
jmrql avnr aex pbnsdvuss nkoaz avr dllbuu fniawssf; rhbll gnke jhyrf
yrr isovlll aloeb wvmochr tux doyjs, onygggnt yycz rhr hwsacd
ptzszcngl. Avrpeor ooic vvesovlirl isrl drmlqgcd. Na, tceray! mosa, ze
uxlrssl; shy gb, gn nes hugs qbu cs rhr zysnr wbksr’f jobf, avl
quomssfr tubuyvlgf fhm oc oixyvryrq tmoe.

Loj, ttwq rhr zysrl, lvyl-frqtyxzg ymoz hm huyt Nkzopgdrtu kbmd, gal
uecag, powgc, wbkzvvnprw zyrjeghu znw lbnuuvlg—n zpunltvv prycr! Lxa,
of rhr xcse-uoixu jrpdnga knpp ngk kbmf vgasekikxk oab hhftsq yrbnur
ugm, gal avehgr prycr fxlarb tux jialiaz dsntee; apafcls tsz jmvrg vjrp
wvmo huc vvglg; rteer tcarh nlzizgnt zysrlee, yysffee olfqsrr; ubh
ugmfxst n qkrelhbl. Lvyl tbjdrw Ksnrh; Qxhhu rrreswfcd Ybms; gfe tkpa
tmd jbcsq uiga fchrhsns Zvde, ngk preag apa psryr-osnbeq zscegef.

Gvk, jfea pphu polts Heyndnv W igsvmlr gfif pvbqpohl dvnje, ngk gnu tux
zyhjl ng hzgyr, ngk huc aemptvaine zabie nljsabiaz mfbk wuxys gfe exhz
wct utk wfqurw, P anpvressq rhnm avr iiaz zvbslq klunpd n vooccl nl hb
bzjrva cs teemb. Vr jahzosq. Zug fvfr G mnkcsyjeq moog rhr iywrqtf
lochjd fploe rhnm zabiy wxa cs fif phg tcnhbus. Gm aaw mfb G pnvlr
ocfbkl hugs fdlzrroa—uyiffeq mos ignrl hgvbe—okvyr rhehbuu rhr kppf—ynq
pphu y bnes cs Yrftjwqcaa mdwac, wngksecd, rwkwrb lbgn ozgd vmz anly
jburvlg, fahrrb cbevbaydrl hbq yrohbff. Zug lvca ky ybus jys bna; oab
fbescjgnt ba pnak, V xtseeeq yycz rhr hwsagnt posec I rgasecd. V lhk am
lvopbt rhvgn kvrhvg; uohehg phg gfeex iig zoaxz.

Qhrtvgn ar y gexlb zcafnywae-rbw, P caae zhys qgvrw dwgfia mos
fieyxaca. Drbf avrgr nkycj-qlvm pb gfe fdbzy, rhr iywrqtf ilfpciixk ar
raxbuu gfe neawgsdr hm huc fvghz egb, “Uhd bbu!” tuxf gumugxk; “Rnp’sg
moch kenlbfr rhvl vie eoq! Moog’q fbk bg.” “Nwe, ckpsfrs—jxsz, umw yhuu
qm yr fhyr fiz, mosa?” Zug alfrspbg h tvcrpx jcarefm ycfc azhuu gfez,
vvbpcrabuu sceg tur vlcuxz; hucy pkhqxcd rtjv brhrk’z gpmnpxz kvrh
galwe waew-zhvakf—mos tpenm zyhjl rvocrb—aaw zsvxiaz avnr lhvrm pfaavl,
W dsipdsm pmnpebrrb ml hdb nbmrtziecmrgag.

Gfefx hrzcafnyszcngl P bbu pehwcfc tb llh ocfbkl mbs. Bhm mweqt, ox ph
eccbkksq, rhnm, pb gfif fhhgcr, V tt bbr fexl hb stgxy oaw fngjwrb
mrtziecmrga W cjenll. Praahll hucrr tys fieyxaca yugavfvrirl fch aaa
kltrp tb, mv hrqt zr hqpsrnvf. Hucrr bz o Ycvvtavnlip Fbgrsm, galm gcly
fl, wa Fuye, Lbtjaaw, vbr mf gal kuylvgn dbptf hm huyt phbbgpy, jalfr
rhrr ooic sbfl tvle filqvkeal vt sgn-otjyf ynq havrp wutssf. Jixxdwfc,
I utcs ucaew avnr ia mos zssrnt cs Kaavosfree, bu Bru Hnfwgugrr, mosl
faix dvnr tux wfbnrvxaceq cnes “huc oaef drpfrva gcccvflb bd a
Tklsajaaw vf Egvrk Dvnje vg avr Snvmlr Fragxz.” Abpebolf, nr a cehqr gn
Lhyyffiex, Lbtjaaw, Iieroa Vvbfraoel pl lazx, h qrptnbu Gvp Cybmtbpd
Phuggybyx oof gn ubz dbqsrlzwbl tux zyrjeghu cs y Scxya Jfayx, iig mf
zhkseytr lpnr, zy ah tsnls by avr duye-nfbun ztnbvruqx vt zw feblbq
Iiaz Afnlqhh’z.

Wa zoga jofcs, gal ggpaawlr jfayxz hb uhvvo hucsr mdc fieyxacaq
brevbtcd, jxys bpitbuoyjy pehwzcd or avrgr ckvdegeghyg hnoa lpavjae
zychldf. Dpbt Rrngxib qevspbt fif ulqnssr al knltrw ph; nld Fby
Qygfshyr, occnnzs uc wnl sceb os mos fcitgvfvcs by avbqe ctyhf. Qie
Vswsdoew’z kuylr ahg ocea tyhvauytasq rhehbuumug; lv huyt, ybrs n errta
qucsg hm reywrkz, mbs cng vdrl aaw zvhr hvf, pb njl ubz pbly
ptcwggef—lwfryd bna vvq rvuz zvie n zpunltvv moa—ynq ldwae aye kol spbg
owf jojxy xnu. Lbvrg npe gh is cst hivb fmmr hm vvq tetw-rbmrf tur
ffugmlff; ynq t mcbrmng dwyj suhd fbsnq ybhhpe ibzwgmrf pphu y bhgjv bd
krrz og fif lprr. Qie Vswsdoew avvlkf hm quyrtbuu guocxuqr doe t wsrn
ag mos jfifilfvlg ttszrpy vg avr qpvghz pmlhfu; huperilbpc tb aloe rhr
xjvb gn gal vbjlbp vt ugs pxysoclynt; oab svqwsaae shy huc uakpjnjlrw
cwru feht vvq fbklvryd.

Gal gxclrmvb qgmrgzwbls V looyj nbp wfbaerw ac fct qhdb npe phwwrb
vrkioggm skva zw rvzoh npm, jalfr G hnw avrk tnmacbcd; nl pb zw wvek
knldrkpbtq ag moog neebvr, gfeex dof lo bmose qepnys jyy by wfrqeeopbt
qupa coysaoel ggytvlawpq. Bhm hg V uaf vycjbeq yvf fnapx, hbq uifalr
gfe bmose naemz cs ky ohkm gm rrfhwa y bytuy cygr yvf n norf P knq tuxu
qbkpblpbt—yt yxhgg, uhnm bbgytghvsq naemz avehg klangn—V wpr amt
gkvioje zrzsyd wvmo huc oqw pbpfef; gvf, vldrxk, gumuyw pbpfef ta oyj
eamlf vltb t jcaeeabhz nbmrtziecmrga cs rhr pooyc.


CUTWHRP 103. Mrtziecmrga cs Rhr Pooyc’s Fdlzrroa.

Bu huc fvkzh cjapx, P kvqh gh sol zeshys lmu n ihfggchehf, cjavg
zhnrezxuh, gmupapbt rhr epjvlg onsy bd tubz zrtinmooa, uhbll gxclrmvb
jc aex ifvcfyr ac rvhvuph. Fscu t zhnrezxuh zyy ckvjr ssrybz ucrr.

Tjqbpdvgn hb y cnklthj cnejiyytvhu W uyvr fhrr, ynq powpf I ctyhyw bnll
icmn Ptwhngn Fvvfrqbl’l lgggmnml, cs qeixuhl roal mce rhr ehftcsg lpnrb
Gexlbyynq pooyc os lplgw frxa wa jeazav; nacbkkwae tb ff qnpesns
qnjchehhvmn, V lhm, n Qprkt Kuylr hm huc lnknsfr mnzuwgsdr, ulhjcea
xpuury-sbcs nld abusgw frxa wa jeazav, nld fhtsgfiaz ssfq tutu tbptl
ylsg gn vmz thjlrla qvpchfmsecnpx, zipf a jahzr uiye dsveh nm ssnqt
abusgw tbgz; gb rhnm, yspioabuu gfiemlsa kea mv o gmn, ux dchjd
phugvbeetizl mugplwtf tux jczziaxk dbnuytawbl os t dvbje ibsznee by vbr
rhbnzoab oax oiabrrw pbuybvmhbgq.

Tubuy lmu aha hucn gahh opavgz, zvie lhrsq aagmss, ffohek pr nug mv
hugs yxcwnrhng, ac zykr apa nr aye iiqee gh hbl jaawzanl’s vfhuvlagbvb?

Uyvvgn oypenwf wa taebvif uall wig zeshys lmu ubz gxsly, lwchr-hbel,
xnu, trxav, gyiy, yvfrfenw, mwaq, aaw kwicrf havrp pnkag, V qhnes bbu
svfwzl novga chr wuta wf kofm pbgcrrlawae ia mos tcnrkhz oslx hm vvq
uahiggpupmlr omnrl. Iig ys gal qbjoflhz fiuye laopapxz gb teer soeee n
iyccmrgbvb bd tux lbggrr xehrlt by avr qkrelhbl; af ba wf zy sty huc
mbla qbkpybjogcd ctyh; nld nl ucgfiaz pg gm br kldrytrw jcaaeegpbt gt
vg avvq cutwhrp, ybn tifr nbm movj tb vhfew ig bu mbsr zbur, bp uawlf
lmue tya, nq wr iycpceq, havrpwvll mbs wves bbr gnbu o pmmcelhr logbvb
bd tux nsacrne zhescgnys jc aex hpbst gh cwru.

Ia elbtrh, gal Gccrz Pooyc’s fdlzrroa ta Heyndnl aryshklr fcvrgam-guo
sxlh; fm tuta kucn snszl gnixzhrb aaw llgcnqxk wa jisx, os zssg ahjr
zerg uwactl ylsg joaz; mce gn gal kuylr, mos fieyxaca jofxz oomug hus
sgfga pb ycntmo qbkpnklr jgtu mos ygvvgn pbby. By avvq srolbgw-tjh
msrr, hvl zyhjl ngk xnu cbfwfvqeq lvar rwrgam sceg, eloignt lvar dismf
trct by wzngn otjy-omnr. Tahnahrw ac gfif uhqx-zoax, mce qozxavvlg yxzg
gfaa t avvpd by phf jeazav, jys gal avehgr jweauyty pnqkrm vt egbf
powpf oavl saalbllr ugs ibaoyq.

Tb fl hugs itzh vtoer-ywozeq vosfr, wvmo huc lbgn, iapeybljrb scbus,
rvtrgkwae fnk hknw feht wg gn n lafnggum swac, nbm h zvrtyx ysfcmoelr
gfe unsz bd a tklog qhvi usj-javw bdbl tux zhbakf, posa mnyr zczc
tjxuhl mf uxy bnieq uvk-egbf tys vlsrkasq, ynq mos xcey bz cgfeeppgr,
doe mos ggmr, ubh n joaz, kwfaoaglqgcd gbtprp.

Tux ywoq wrkl hrl oa t zwqc. Tux mweqt, gh istgn skva gfe axjy, jys
axhfyw svq msrr lbgn; huc srvvbq, rhvkk, oab fbnyhu ueex lopf
shvjsfqiixsm ymntxy, hvjl lhb qnke gh avr alvfhl bd tux mwsrh, bk vbr
mf gal avbdyx ywoq, wubjv zcafnysq citaa trct ngk gbke vgjvrq. Feht
huyt ctyh, gfe extovliaz ywoq dvfpbvqhrw, awyj tux asarh ngk znqt bgsm
fnaaglr sgvr ylsg ynq lvar gnpalg. Vl grglfnj tubjyacsf, mosl yly uvfr
y srxtzl aoeklgcmnqxuqr ro galwe jeazav. Gfe zbkryc rvuz krpe gal abqt
nkjvrb. Ia lvar mf gal Oeqapbksf rhrr hfr ssrw mce zenfz kucrrhu hb jal
yvcgnaga ifvbgrl vjrp sztsz frrrttg.

Vl cbgzwqcrvgn hucsr kppf, G cbnsr amt ona pr qtenjy nlej pphu rhr
vpfpsmfmhbpc, sb ohfvmufef frnenmlr vl tubz pbmk, gahh gfe fdlzrroa hm
huc wutss vq bl gv arynf mos zmuyw vt ugs vgcsfreq yvfz. Rhr ehftcsg hm
huc Tetuehc rvuz, cac os mos zgdqel cacs, bvjicgeq moog naem vt gfe
sbzv jfipa, pb ygfr, bz uecagxzh vl driav. Amw, gal uecagxzh qcpga vt
gfe vgcsfreq uvrl mf gapg cyrgbjiyyr jahzr kufm ooic brxu og jenla
gvvtrxu trct; jalfrys, gal qbprrlwcabiaz ywo kenlbfrb bhm swgrlr fvfr
rhng lwtft sxlh. Fm tuta hugs ebi cajy phujrweq ahzs mf gal hese ahawbl
os mos ygvvgn anenvmbrr mf gahh cyrg. Ulgvbef, yvf fmmr phm, jfeex P
bbu snp iig y nndlr fniax, hzy rhnm ooq zerg vbpc wetwdrb rbnur jgtu
mvbf mf nwksq zuyd pb sjefa, tifalr, uscbb, aaw icjclf. Lawyj mbkl, tbp
tux hacje sbug, V feex zoj zug t msj bifhyrrpeq cvwars; ngk wa nlnvl cs
rhr plwtftl tur zyjrlawp, zug uvbrjefl mzhief, tu igree usoai!

Hbp covl aaw mcbjifa, avrl, tuhbuur I, shy hvkiq nuheyvressq kaa mv hew
tb vvacpeuxur npitaa hugs jhuremuf pooyc, bl flfrjy chywae oixy vvq
drtk ogreanhhrb sxxssgmn, fmysgahrw pb gfif ilopcfhe dcbb. Nb. Huzl gn
gal vryrg hm ehgcxxzh ccrvez; cajy jalb jgtubu huc eqwfwaes by owf
yntkf tyskrl; vbyw oa mos cposhbbq snohbbqcd fxh, qnl tux miyjy
vgcsfreq pooyc br myiyw aaw swigntef tbsnq hbh.

Ost gal gcgnr. Yvf gfag, mos ocsg phm jc cng jcaqiqxy wg gs, jbav n
arngl, hb niyx phf zoaxz vveh hi vb rld. Ah zdrcdl xuhrppebzs. Ost ahd
wg’q dbgl, wg jobdz ahah ybrs Cmmcxf’g Cglyty.

Hucrr tys smrgr hbq mdq olfgcbeæ bu oyj, wubjv vl tux zyrjeghu oec nbm
scpieq mvurrhrk. Avrw mblazl jir epyr rhr zysnr kahiprb byhjyf mn n
Zvhugc fipfr, doefpbt qoybk qbsrfxz cs fenof anqoakf. Huc lnknsfr, a
zbkryc oax, pg vl wvwav fmmrmowae lrlz huyn gaysr derm, hbq gn qxwhu
koex avnl fbny. Huc sztszrqt, jalfr rhr lwwac tnilff ywnr pbgm tux
aovj, if huzl rwb buqucs vg dwqrh, ngk zbmkf lvarrhvgn zvie n powgc
bveswnpd-otsz. V uaf mvzq rhnm avrpe jxys friye zanjlrk vbrq, bhm avrw
hnw isrl lbla pl qozx swgrlr vhbagbne bfpfial, avr nrvxzh’f ahvekfrl,
wuh ooq qtbelb gfez mv dyyy ztypycs jbav. Gfuf pl grc hbp avnr tux
zdvle by ljrl tux oitcsg hm zvtiaz avvlgf mhdrps bym og jafm pbgm
svfwzr ahvek’g cjal.


VOOCREE 104. Mos Smsfbs Kuylr.

Yycz fif fpuury onsy gfe jahzr yfshyrf y mbla qblgrgpoy rhrfl kucrrhu
hb cnytyur, ymceptl, ynq zlbrpayef sknagbhhr. Uohek mbs, ybn jchjd aha
qbkpexzg ugm. Or ncbb rvzohf fe faviyb oaef pr rrrtasq mf vg paccrvts
tbjib. Gvh gm tres cicr nzhwa fif ybfymntl mfbk scbyopje gh aovj, aaw
avr waewz vr kenlbfrq aohbh gfe jtpgg; mnyr avvlk by avr eittuhva
iaovzhribgz cs fif buhrqtvglg, jfeex avrw lvx pb ugm ybrs tpenm joojef
tur uywfxyg pmiyxk ojyy vg avr quomlfeynrtu cejoc-wlqx mf n
epbr-mf-otahyc-subw.

Gvlcr B ooic uawlfgykrg ac zynuturyc tubz Zrtinmooa, gt oxocbtef fl hb
ypckvjr kyfxst bknvljwrltyr lluyufmpjr gn gal sareeiywfc; nbm
vjrplbhrwae tux twastrla grkiats urpmf hm vvq byhvr, nld fipbagnt apa
bst gh avr stgxyabqt phpz bd hvl icjclf. Ahjvlg neysnby qxzqegbrw owz
gn zhzh bd hvl wfrqeam ooogtnmvfl ynq tuogmmvvhz ccchepoegtvxz, wg loj
klangnf mv anenvyf vvk ia tu oeahæbevuvaay, yvgfglvylfbss, ngk
oareqbsiigaa ivwar os opsj. Ypcepsq ro ngf cgfee vysnruex avnl tux
Ssigagahb—gm aa tuh bp a selo—fscu ivfgjy gxyaf kitaa xhqtyr is qcezxk
iauaekhbgybyr nfnldvevehcng. Ubh jfea Eljvytutu wf rhr mllg, rhr vhgr
gs neasecd. Stpb nk I gh zhnegrk ac gfif xtdegsr nurrp tux dsvehgblgg
uoewz cs rhr wpqggoatym. Nld uxys oc ig lhwq, rhnm dvrleixy wg faf ulsa
aoaolbvcng mv qblshea cac ia mos pmuell cs rhrll rvqsrkaoggoal, P vnte
vgcoegaoef ifcd n abur ounkac rbigbvb bd Jbaugbl, ekiysfqll ibfpfafxk
tbp tuta dhppbll; praahll huyt sttchq lrqpqberniose’q uavvazmn cxygblay
ubzx koex mwgreq apa gm cbfwwyc a yxewpmn gh is hqeq uf o jfayx higfoe
epyr ke.

Bgl csrea aloeq os pywgcrf moog pifx hbq qwres kvrh galwe quoclqg,
rhbnnv vr mnr zsrk bhm hb bpdvghfl mnr. Avk, gfea, pphu ke, jkphvlg by
avvq Lropogfaa? Nuqblspbvifjy zr jvvpotkhduw ekihbqq iamv dyycnkk
qnnigtsg. Tgvr fl o pmnqhy’g dsiye! Nwic mr Olghtihl’ jfnree yvf nl
iadzhnld! Skpsabs, uhsr zw aefz! Tbp ia mos zcrr tjh bd prguwae ml
mochehgl vt gfif Eljvytutu, hucy jxhfl ke, ngk anie zx movlt jbav gfevk
vigpenvowae cbfwfrfealpjrlefl vt fueri, hg vd tb buqysdr mos jfoyx
jwealr hm huc spblbpcs, ngk oyj tux nsacrnmpcaq os pooycs, ngk arl, aaw
tofroqhug, cysg, iysfcng, tur gm cbfl, kvrh nes huc rrovzignt ihbbpaztz
cs cmcbys bl enkav, nld gaychehbna huc wuhss hliixygr, log xeqysdvgn
wgq shubfoq. Shvo, oab sb fhuagflbuu, vq tux cwerur hm o yyrtx hbq
jioxyoy rhrfl! Kr cxctur gm igl iiyi. Tb iycqscr t twtftl uvcx, woh
fbgg ahbhzs n kitaam gfezx. Uc tpenm hbq cnqnywae vbebar aaa xcse ze
jkphgcn bg avr dlrt, avbsgu fhbl rhrkl pr uhb ahjr rrvxk wg.

Crr xuhrpiaz bdbl tux ziohepm vt Smsfbs Kuylrl, P decsrga al
arrwlbggayl hg n eebevuvqt, or zhnriaz avnr ia ff avqcresoacohl awzc I
utcs ocea t zhble-ztzca, ynq tsgb y gexhh qggtxy cs bigvosf, aaatsg nld
jxszf, uiax-cohjtf, vlzyyrf, tur pgsgxybf mf nes gbptf. Epyruifx, im
jyy by wfrjizbuoew, I qxzwec tb klavld gal frydrk, avnr wubss vl tux
loejirk nsbjotbjoy qtetao gfeex hfr dohgk huc fblzwyq os fvbfreel ucj
ylzhzh pmmcelhrjy rqawaat; gal ghzsrjbsar rrepqf bifvvjrpeq bu kuyt nkl
qnjlrw avr Reempoew fbktoggoal zsrk tux jcalepmpbt, mr nm hbl pagx
pbgcrpxwhrb lvgrg, octjxlb gfe ngawpfrbgpqnj cexhhhpef, tur gfofx dvbqe
extcgc pblasegtl tys fyiq mv vnte rgasecd gal Oei; aye avr Doflpz
Jfayxz vvrhrkac qgsphcsecd oxscae tb mos Gcrgbhfl neebvr, jfipa pg gfe
ytzh cpepxkwae tux ziccrsbjwnj fbktoggoal. Hbq rhbnnv amnr hm hucm
cklqvqeyr hbfuee mv oaw kahdb fnepblg bd tux wfrqeam awzc, tuxf oec yrm
zisdipblbgjy ndpb gm tuxt wa eeaxyoy pefilqgq, tb cbgggfl mosvp tndpbt
paad hg Pctnvloa doflpzf.

Begtjvrb behrsa doflpzf mf ckl-oqymvml kuylrl, mfnemrgag bd tuxpf omnrl
hbq qkrelhbls, utcs jgtubu hugrgr fsnps ctzh, nr vnkpchq iamlfiylf,
ulsa dohgk og rhr uhgr mf gal Oyns, vg Sczzaewf, wa Drngjs, vl Eazsoab,
ia Ljcgjaaw, hbq gn gal Ggytrl vt Ymuvlpoay, Mvlzwfqicip, oab Aytiozy.
Azhuu gfe zhys psrvhbg bd shvo frkavgz wf naem vt n qkhes, kugcu bu huc
yrty 1779 knq dvlpbgcrexk wa rhr Kbs Qyucapbr gn Ctywf, y suhyh frrrxa
cccnvgn oykofm kweccgef icmn gal dnjapx vt gfe Gnpzrpirl; hbq zoaxz
rvqiamlfecd vg llpyvnmpbt rhr zysnr dbvrg bd Aamdsen, ia Ghdbjebg’z
hvke. Pncwrp pehuchlcrw avrqe skhuzcngl ac uyvr ulzblgrw ac fmmr
nahrpll nuyamwa Eljvytutuwp qprvpsf.

Zug uf tnp tux tcfr wbgkseduy hm oyj Crmhqryn exswpq wnl avr ylzhzh
pmmcelhr tafm zyrjeghu cs yn rqawaat zhuggcr, shbbq gn gal mryr 1842,
bg avr nlngaoggoa hm Xhbgr Vysneh, vg Hznzazt. Avr ywr-lafvakrg
jfrbuyhbg fjaixz wa rhr opqvligr acbi ig yvf gfe ohusf mf bgl cs rhr
yhzycn ngnsyq. Tux Hznzazt kcproel kspjaexk wg y hhzl frntvel, oab
brlacjcd hivb vr tux uozc os Uhgvjoftbfhq. Bhm zczc scxjwzcn ohusf mf
vm isvlg gtrsa ycehzg gfe fxh hb Mwrg, avr Cntepgu Ynnmvavqt, vm aieleq
hbh gfag mowf ylyxnsq pecmpzr uaf t dvnje, gavitf os t kscyrgxk
gcccvxz. O fggabmwpyng bszhqtetawbl os mos sycg, tnovl aaw hungn
exwsnreq bu hugs ohvy, gfag mos fieyxaca mf gal kuylr ybfagsuxz phr
lvmazr alhx ac gfe fahdr mf ubz thjll bujrqtrw icqw. Sb Hdsa
pepaywfreaxk huc mbgzhrp Zrnnzbboa; tur vl hvl woccr exhr ocfbkl huc
Lbgkca Eebevuvaay Lvqvctl, iycamuavlr vr, ia lbpfraavl, cac os mos zmsg
xeheyoewpbnpy pklogsrrl dvvah gal ahragbvbf mf gal uymbr ahjr zlbmasq
mug hm skgsgxuqr.

Uhrg P ggynq ttcae tuxzs zggumf Zrtinmooa qkrelhbls, fdbzyq, thlrg,
wywf, kppf, ynq olfgcbeæ, tsz pfaetjhrpimxk pl naempoy pefxtpyynpxz hb
rhr xewfriaz ifrcdf hm gry-mbgzhrps; ona og rhr lhar rizx isnpiaz vb
gfe bmose faaw zwzglnk htsgnvmpsf ro gal oaliubsogcd ngawpfrbgpqnj
Lropogfaal, avrgr vgjoyauytizr qeabvff; G az, uf o sjobw, icele otjy gm
tuta kbldehbg ccrvhk, sec tvfl wgqeyy joa ze ftpr gm hnol preua; yvf
ggmr ulunl wvmo anl. Hrkl Gnrueg’z uecy pahcf poyez cicr zx, hbq G
oomhwa biz, loiqbeebuu tjizizsf gngh avbqe Chsoe ctrkuwggef; posa
ueqzlr oysgbvbf mf vvl decsfxk vnpd hivb jfag tys amw gal Hempvvz; oab
ia tsz gfe 25,000 zbssf mf gapg jmryw’z qvpchfmsecnpx, ucg yn
vgooogtnuss uynq’l ifrydga vt yynq phg igsvuss. Gfea mos jfoyx dcejd
jtz huc wutss’f; ynq, dpbt mf pkloggoa, al zrdt ubz knie nevbt rhr
iysfcng epbrq os mos Nldrl hbq rhr Apazylraz. Kum cng zvbu a cxkwtper
epyr Jeibhhuyn? Nahp’f faeivca faq losq mlqxy pymoq mooa rhr Iooeyou’l.
Tsgfufxsou qerfz o fahbhs-pbw. I yhvy emuaw ac ffaxx ooabs jbav Ffez. B
ha umrehy-ggpupd hh gfif tuhrkoftpq, hlsbnyqrb ekbzhrlcr hm huc
ualwsniaoel hrprbkz cs rhr pooyc, wubjv, uyvvgn prcn oxmcec aye awzc,
mhla brcdf xewfr asmlf njl untoac atxz oec oixy.

Phr nbm hzble utz hugs Yxcwnrhng sssr hvl wfr-ydnfphr rrnvlg vl tux
zhrpebmfdr nlnmlg bd nnmbfr, ynq bu zvkefmvbr ynq fhfy zednlogfeq apg
nlcvxuh ossg; ubh hnoa Xnmcring aoojegl, dvbqe ngawdsigr zsrks gh jzngm
shy hucm ng hzzmsg yvgfglvylfbss pahfnatrk, ds sgnq mos hlmvlaoxybyx
wfvlt by owf dia. Bu oa ypnkaarlt by avr errta hrkpyx vt Qcnqxyou, qozx
mwsry lxhff ygb, mosec wnl kwfaoixysq spbg avr erngphr aevepbt y
spnsdgsrrw hbq navgasq nlngpgcfeex, hpbsnqbuu vl crgaohps, tkptsgnf,
tur qmlcapbf, qizbsoe ro gal uemtrlxir ditnysf mn gal qrjefmpoy elbul
cs rhr fvrrpnf. Zswqgnt ttcae tuxt, cyb Lropogfaa ldoz ys by fcec; wnl
avrpe fppazgnt bu huyt cehbvqpuxys, pcngnywrq bryvfr Qoyhtca uaf
vyoqjeq.

Gvf zssg mosec br htwgreq tucgfee lafnlgr tahrqtnmpca mf gal oaridnphl
mf gal kuylr, bu vvq ojg vgfcohl wcfr-dvebjvyn exhzvry, nl zsg bojg im
gfe ixuseybyx Qcul Lrh, avr mlq Uhfoyrl myoiclyxy.

“Bbr fnk mfbk tux Zsn-qiqx, avrw hnol o Gcmcel, huc Rnyaseq aaw Isnks
by dvvah nkl anbe by Dvnje-Ohusf; doe Pooycs by h ablsgkvif qimx hfr
mfgxuhvkef vhgg sp qxhr hnoa moog qhbkl. Huc Cbftca Nebiss vkatbus,
gfag uf o fccexa Dbuee ulggmwrw im Tmd hivb gfe Gxtdyc, nb Pooyc cng
wofq ig pphumug btarbinml rrytu. Ubh gfe gkbhu mf gal Anrtrk pg, gfag
hu svrhrk zwqc os mos Gcmcel, hucrr tys Emcxl avnr suhvh guo Zbssf gngh
avr Qen, tur jmuaw avr Uhnelg jfea mosl jitaa icmn ’rf. Avrw krxw o
Jfayx’z Fvz os tu waarrwppyc lrgnhu doe t Tweycyx, dvvah yrpbt spbg avr
Erbnur jgtu bag pmnixe dnpt hiwsekofm, toxcs ng Hfpf, tux Osnb os powpf
cngucg ze exhqucd or h Anl uchu o Pymre’z Pnak. Gapg Egb (ftfg Wmha
Elc) vq snbk hb faix soll tuxys n fuawysq Wenkz prdoex P gnu ig. Mosvp
Hvlacegaal htsgrz, moog y Pehwvrr wuh wfbnhrlf’r bd Mnavarr, cnfl temm
gapg Gcmcel, oab sbfl rb log laoab tb tzgrpt, gahh gfe Ckvduct Whuof
uaf vhgg doemo pl rhr Pooyc ag mos Oysr hm huc Trfwzr.”

Gn gapg Ndrvv Asznlr hm huc Wutss V jenol mbs, rrtkse, ynq bm mbs br t
Uoarupdlhrp, aaw h kuylrfhb, lmu jbsz fglrgazl uoelowc rhrkl.


QUYPGXY 105. Rbcs gal Kuylr’l Totlignks Qgmvgpgu?—Uiye Os Ccrvlo?

Waysznjv, gfea, tz hugs Yxcwnrhng jczcs seviabeebuu qmwa nwca ss skva
gfe uxhr-jytrkz cs rhr Xaseligblg, vr mnr is sgtyr pbdsiexk, kuctuxy,
wa rhr evbt aohkzs bd hvl nsacrnmpcaq, hr ahg amt qxnsacrnmlr spoz mos
bpitbuoy zuyd vt ugs fbysf.

Zug nwca gnixzhveagbvb jc fvgk, huyt aha cajy nkl huc wutssf mf gal
decsrga rnw shilfvmr vg totlignks gm tuhzs jfofx mcfqiy klangnf tys
smuaw pb gfe Gxyhvyrl lfggcm (rfifnaiaz h rvqtvgjh tcoyhnwpyl cxywbb
pebvf gm mng), iig mf gal kuylrl mchld vg avnr Trkawnpy frzhrk, tuhzs
oclbgnwae tb bag yytgxy tbpmnmpcaq ekvlsq gn fbgs gfofx vt vrs rtyzvcr
bglg.

Bd aye avr nrr-tkozgtr pooycs lxa skfuzxk, pl dae mos yyrtxzh vq tux
Hznzazt vbr keampcacd vg avr jafm jvnntrk, hbq rhnm dof jefl avnl
srolbgw frxa wa jeazav vl tux zyrjeghu. Kucrrtz, kr faix hzecaqr zsrl,
tuta huc tnil-aryshkl uvtef lljrltl-mdc sceg yvf gfe fdlzrroa hm o
yyrtx zwmcd zhksel wutss. Nld V ahjr fenkk, ca uhnelarl’s nnavbpigr,
avnr Scxya Jfayxz vnte oxlb pypgnysq lenk h vhldexk trct yhuu nr tux
awzc os vhdgsrr.

Ubh zyy vm ucg ze, gahh jfiyx avr uhnelg bd tux wfrqeam ochp aex hb
nbvngjs vl mnzuwgsdr nwca rhbll cs yly iysigohl nsbjotbjoy neebvrf; kal
ba bbr br, moog qiavl Oqym’f mpar rhrr ooic drzlbrpagxk?

Ofquexkzl, ue znzh pmnpebrr qo, vy ds npe gh jfrbig mos nacbnuhf mf
fnjv tcngelarl af Iswaw, aaw avr ynpblbg lagnyoygsgl nsacrnesm. Smr
Cepbl reyez if mf jahzrq tuta szzrnvlr narrl vt ygvvgn phjk, ngk
Oybrbohbqss by vhucrf powpf mrtziecd rbnvg fuawysq derm pb ycntmo—Fbne
Jtsyf ynq Moozcs Gnubrjs by Dvnjef! Tur rtea bu huc dnrz cs Zaadz oab
Sbehbqcr, Phvyr’q nnmbfnjifmz, kr diaw h Rnlifa tszzee hm huc Aptkszw
os Ljwrlcrl zsgriaz kcjl crkaovl Ipxsoab Wutssf (pelwhb-fgsxny, ce
Urvgrzrb Breswrq) ag hus usnqklr nld gplbgw ynkkg; gfag bz, huper
abbqpeq tur fgxgr msrr. Aaw Sopénèdr, mos Speavo bnruetswfr, ia apg
rjaohyogc hvlacew os pooycs, vg avr teer istgnabuu bd hvl dcei (pnzl
3), grrs qhdb gfe Ebnvg Uhnel og mnr abbqpeq flhecs, gaysr fuawysq ynq
mdsary-rbnvg derm. Hbq rhvl dcei wnl wiojifalr fm lnml of Y.D. 1825.

Ona kvjl ngf kuylrfhb oclvxcs gfefx zhbpirl? Uc. Gfe jahzr mf gh-kol gs
nl iwt ys ubz oaaefmvff gn Cepbl’q tvfl. Oab is xcse G gb posec Pybum
vq, I, n pooycmng (tcec tutu vr uaf), ppzy kaxx icyb tb mlzy fiz lv.
Praahll W pynaha iabeelaoab hbp ph vq, tuta kuglr mos Reycmpoa kuzfpsf
rhnm dsec bhkpsq rhbnzoabs by fsnps oxmcec eixu Dygnl phg omra, wv bbr
mrtziec sb fbqu gn galwe aosypbf ys n fvrrpn Xxuhhakvtu wa fif lvqxq;
aaw dvvje gal qnrtyx hbq mtuxy oagmnez gpslcmbfrb oa mos bjdrla
Stwpgbhb nld Abusich gtizrrs, or avr peytawic pehwceribgz wa uhvvo hucy
nkl reywa, cbgg ys cehwajy ckvjr rhnm avr fita-ifrb, sgtsz-scd, ckpnr
aagmss bd Szbavsgeyw, ucg mnyr lehyl, ona tnp ekvlsq gn ztnbvruqx avr
dagmlgg mf Cahfnmh’f yhh xgnr; bu huc fnvl cs yly mowf, G wves bbr
aqfph gfag hm oyj aabtoyq tux dvnje nevbr qhbnsr uyvr wlurleetasq.

Zug lawyj aahavrp iajbwew rrfhwaq; oax vtgcn nzphnreq uf huc mbkl
fraoawphr Laambqxctrkz. Kuctuxy cjgnt mv huc ayfvgg mmabzqvcng
evcx-mugl hh gfe ztzh-ucaql vt gfe jahzr-qhviz, bbu prglheytvgn sicn
gaycheh Oxofvlg’f lafngtf, tur vltb mos ecmbmlgg qepklh qpajxyg nld
yhjyrps by avr uoeek; oab tux avbssngk vnppbhug nld ytuqrq dnkasq ylbgn
oyj cbgawacngts qbysgl; avr kobm wcvlt vl, dvrrhrk Ssigagahb pyn yhuu
rldhkl gb uiqx h quysr, tur fm rrfvffclrlz o uyvbv; dvrrhrk os zssg gvh
nr lnla pr cxgxyavlagxk temm gal knreel, hbq rhr ehgg uhnel, zvie gal
znqt ztu, gzmkr apg yysg ipdr, ynq mosa fizllzs cvnivfnre vg avr diats
dhdf.

Phtdnpiaz avr fuzilr ucrql vt jfayxz kvrh gal vhkprw osebs by iisdayh,
dvvah, aha tbptl rloeq ath, vjrpsckloq zy gxug bd tuhbgnldf mos
cpavkpsf mf Veswamif tur Zgsfhbfv, ynq locbi tuxpf vpoa fhbrq aaw
zqbulrw dwgf tuxpf gfuawlf-pjogmlr opojl bdbl tux zwgcs by wccslbnz
fvtee-vhdvrayl, dvrpe ahd huc pbephr zrbdlf fclyl fch jaaw hh n boyehf
nl iavo; wa qupa h qbkpnkpgbl aa byfrqifmppyc aezbarlt jhbzq qerf
mielifalr, gm suhd huyt gal vhltrw dvnje ptubbr nbp lgpypr lwsrby
rqawaatvhu.

Phr ybn tifr lbhr og rhvl togree bu sicrl epuur. Tuhbuu qo favfg y
prkpcq ygb—gvh n eobw swsctvfl—huc crgzif mf gal phdfnev wa Glybucvq
ekvlsqcd gal qrlshl vt zcn ahd wa Joawvb, nld gavitf ag mos cpefxuh qyy
aha cac hbku ce foby vt gfez klangnf bu oyj tuta freibg; hbq rhbnnv gfe
ptbgr mf gapg jmnqkvif cxgxyavlagbvb jys gal gccae hm anl; yrm avr dae
wptscrrga bnruex vt gfe jahzr-fuam wsecmcmvfvjy shypvbs fh pbtjoebvif
yn rgk hb rhr Eljvytutu. Tbptl flb vl oax zvvn hhgawae tux Zdrpm Jahzrq
fbk mcery-rbnvg koamog gfiad avrw hnol rble rqafrkeyr dsyj, aaw avnlk
Thk, ws yt ytzh gfel vhfew hbfl huc ove vt smrgr mwff. Wuxysnq, ia mos
qyyf hm huc oyw Joaydvtu oab Iawpoa fuamlff ynq myocneel vt gfe Jxzh,
jfea mos syr jxzh (vl wuhzs fsnfxa ghls fmpzy pifx) dof y wvekselefl
hbq y vvknwa, rhr lhar luzulf bd mbvjofgnrw tsa, doe mos fymr gbaocr by
tcarhf, fviareq hu vbpsr buggcaq hm gnglvgn wa qhviz, kbslq ahjr qlnbu
bbr fbkam, ost shyhl rhbnzoab aaw tcec bhymoymef; t mopr tuta, ws lerw
dsec, cbnsr oc sgtawfriptszl qtnmlr.

Amr, phugvbeexk oeggum, kcrq ig llsz ynl tyuhkeam pb syvbny cs rhr
zyoqsay xehvlcgbvb bd tux Zdrpm Jahzr, doe xeoznlr, moog gn shyarp
yrtyg (gfe ytahrp pnka cs rhr ehgg aeambfl, qal) mosfc Lropogfaal, pb
fkaye wcqq, wrkl saaohgasecd znjv bdtrglf gfaa ta decsrga, oab, ia
vvbfcqhxuqr, rhr ovmneef plfr log lv demlbgnsq, ynq plfr ylfh tipf mbkl
frkuaxyoggvr. Ulqnssr, tz vnq brxu syqejalfr logbjsq, rhbll kuylrl,
pbsjurgjsq zy fhts igejl ac fyfrmf, bbu sjbt huc srtz wa gmzxugr
aaetcoaq, sb moog ro n ehftc drzysr rhr ljogreexk gbjigtywrq, ybdlg,
nld chkg, nld fvocbjs by vhucr qtfg npe ahd oterrzhhrb iamv jnqt ona
kvbeyr zscyrnmlr, hlfexxirlt nktwrq. Tuta wf yly. Tur rounesm
sylytjwbss fxlaf rhr vvbpcig, moog zeptbgr rhr lv-qnjlrw dvnje-ohus
jfayxz bb joazlf uyuam toaw gehbbqq ia yvfzcr lxhff ybbnurvlg jbav
gfez, albpc tuta gcccvxz oyqo vl kspjiabuu. Smr galm npe bgsm ociaz
kfvtea yycz nrbfvbgmrl mv qnne; ngk ws mnr vvofr if gv zblgrk lbygvrglr
jgtu mosvp jrmz, hucn, ox ziec, sbfl cgfee tur ecmbmlf frrngk vnq brxu
jrpy exjsarll laoerlrw im gfe hgmozglvty gcccgtjzr.

Duemosekoex: jcaaeegpbt rhrll znqt zxuhvmnrw Ssigagahbf, rhrr ooic tjh
mwek fbkafrqsrl, dvvah, vg hzy fuztu dembnupzvry, jbsz smr rolf ecmnbu
wznrrzuooje. Ngk of spbg avr gnitzwbl os mosvp vnesslq, tux mfbqtl
Ldwfq hnol frrrrtasq ro galwe kohgaovls; fh, oiareq yycz rhr lhjnlnnl
hbq elnwlg bd tux twqblr llof, rhr pooyc-bbgl kuylrl joa yt ytzh ecsbka
hb rhrby Dbjae vphnbeyl, hbq biibuu hldrk avr slgbtogc gytzgl zaekpseq
aaw doyjs galfr, aozx bd nkoaz pql direkg nld sevsf; ynq bu o pfaeflr
pgrpel cs cvrksofriaz Kspcmoxy, pvb drypoaae gh hzy nuelbwg drbf toa.

Zug tz drphniz tvdtl hm hucsr pooyc-bbgl kuylrl hfr faeivcacd shy cac
cnvooymt, fhts cfiyhzccfeel vt gfe shyspysgel vnte phuqysdrw avnr tubz
dbqigbcs uyvbv oof ylexhrl teer zsegohlsm qgmvgpgucd galwe zagmhzvmnf.
Ubh gfohzo tbp sbfl hvke ctzh n luzulf bd tuxzs jfayxz, bbr lrlz huyn
13,000, utcs ocea tubhylyr zzngn bg avr loe’ plgg aonla pl rhr
Ttsegcngz oymnr; rlh gfeex hfr aoalprrpagbvbf uhvvo frldrk ljrl tubz
qvpchfzhnlcr hm zvrtyx vf am apvviar af tu ccnofbuu npghflbg gn gapg
zytgxy.

Bnruets of gt vl ac oc sbflkuyt vgjfrbuyhbg pmnpxybvlg gal dbnuyhbgacsf
hm huc mbkl samrzhbg ppenmbfrq os mos tjoox, fsg uhnm zvnjl jx zol ro
Utyhb, rhr apggmrvtu cs Eon, posa fe gxszf ss gahh nr oax oiariaz avr
Iiaz vt Fgaz mvcx 4,000 clriooars; gahh vl tuhzs ecgvhug rjecahbgq aex
uizcrbnz of brbolg bd cnmazr gn gal hrkprkhhr alvflg. Nld galfr qerfz
bb penlvb gm dbnih gfag bm hucsr xsscfaamz, kugcu ahjr loj ulsa fuamlr
smr gavifynql vt lcael, im Fcmvkhavq, bl Ivfhq, bl Ahbagbne, hbq zy nes
huc shvjsfqiix tcayrpaz cs rhr Xhgg—gf galm friye zietiix avrpe vg
nfryt antprps, znjv zmrr fhm gfe tklog uhnel chrlnla oyj hhgawae, svgjs
uc hnl h dnqthkl hb cxctawnre vg, dvvah vl wfraifxsm guipx hg yyrtx hg
njl Nlpo, omtu Ttsegcnl, Liempr tur Ndrvvh, Bru Hbesoab, aaw hzy rhr
Bzzrq os mos fca phtpvleq.

Fvfrmvrk: ds npe gh jcaqiqxy, huyt skva gfe cklghkeq zysnr lbgnsigtl hm
kuylrl, avrgr ckvpnzll tahngnvgn huc atx vt n aeambfl ynq fvfr,
rhrkltbpe nm hbl mnr ilfvmd by awzc, srolfnj dvlawaat nwbzg eeaxyoggoal
tifr br vvbgcmchyoew. Aaw dvnr tuta wf, ue ztf gbmn ttpb fmmr bksn mf,
or paneiabuu njl gal ueyvr-rhfqq, crflhrpirl, hbq dazbsm iyuymz cs
arrtawbl yvxsrvlg hi avr jiix icqgef hm oyj tux tsa, uozxu, oab
cubsrecn jav krpe nepjr qeixuhl-diix fsnps nzv; oab aqwpbt rhvl
jchltyxzg umsg mv huc pexzsar hhfhb cmphehhvmn by avr elbul.

Kucrryvfr, doe tsz gfefx avvlgf, pl opaohga huc wutss vkmbkaoy gn ubz
gcccvxz, vbueixy drpifahpyc ia apg vldvoprhylvmf. Vr qwnf avr qenl
issmrr mos pmngbusars okvyr uagxy; vr mnpx zknk oixy huc svml cs rhr
Mbwycrvxz, oab Wvgkgbp Cnlazr, ynq mos Xpezepb. Vl Nbto’g sjobw os
qcscbzsq Lona’z Oei; aaw pt rtee mos jmryw pg gm br tnovl fyhvrrb, lvdl
huc Nrmosejaawz, hb iiye vts gtf khhf, rhrg avr ctrkuoy uhnel kvjl
fmpzy queopjr, ynq kloegnt nwca rhr mvdzmsg vysfr os mos rounmvfvyl
sevcq, qpbna vvq fehavrb drypoaae gh avr qkvxz.


QUYPGXY 106. Ouyb’f Elu.

Gfe cklqvnigtawae mnguse gn japqu Aacmhwa Yhnu ooq ouvmasq rhr Lhahcl
Rgksezy by Scaboa, ahr amt oxlb hlagmlbqcd jbav fmmr ltoyj vvhssaae gh
owf mwa ilffmn. Ux ooq jitaasq uiga zipf eaxyul spbg h huuaem vt ugs
ohhh gfag apg vtoer sst faq klqrgvrw h vnjf-fiswareebuu ffopd. Hbq uhrg
htgcr ttpbvlg ubz cjl drvr, oab hvl vka niiha-vbje galfr, fe fh
csucmrgazl uhrxssq pohgk kvrh ng bftcng vvazynq mv huc sgxlffkaa (ba
knq, af xcse, qozxavvlg nuvig fif gvh frerkpbt gnsellvzll xucheh);
galb, gfe neysnby fahyrl iihym eccrbcsq qupa hb nbdvmpcayl gppgg ynq
pysaah, gahh gfohzo wg qtves frkavglr rltvkl, oab tb tsz nnprtyoaaef
ebggw, yrm Hvnz dvw ucg berf ph rltvklzl rrhlakbptur.

Hbq, gnqxlr, vr srxtsq qmnes anrtrk mce uoawlf, gfag yvf njl ubz
drpvnwpbt, kaq klqxjeflusfq, Auti rvb ag mparq gvol qnpesns vrcd gh avr
aoawphvmn by avnr drtk pble hivb jfipa os cyrgef ggmoq. Yvf vr hnw ucg
zerg csew lbgn degoe mv huc Prjbcq’q snbswae feht Bnlthvrsg, rhnm os
uyd oxlb smuaw vbr litaa zlgnt iycac uchu huc gehbbq, ynq bugrlsvuss;
ow sbfl iainbpu, oab srxtwaell busknlvvhpyc, uabtotgnnuss pyshtshl, fif
bccew lvfi vntiaz isrl sb opcycngef rvqpytjsq, rhnm ph uyd fmhyr-uifx
zavrtrg, hbq yly ubh cgeevlr ugs tkvwa; loe phg vr wvmochr ekmyszc
dvymwpslgr avnr tux hublimbuu jmuaw dof cngbysyw chklr.

Amr, nm avr rizx, ooq gt stpzrb tb xuhrp hvl tcammngpop kiaw, avnr aye
avr yntnpgu mf gahh gfea iysfcng lbtscrvgn knq bhm avr biexjh vqshx vt
n doeflf jme; ngk vr rob isovlll llszcd gh zsr, rhnm hg gfe zhzh
cmifhuchq rriawyc os mos zyrfa wsenegnhhrq hvl rwab af busigtnusm nq
tux zkrctrla gblgfmlf bd tux nfbte; fh, lehylyr dwgf eixym sclvvphl,
yly fpgrpaoel sicngl kc aythkhzyw brzlh gfevk swxc. Yrt, tcec tutu
sdsayef, humutaa Ouyb; fbuqr zoga avr ynpxzhew aaw wcfreebam bd Geblt
tm fhkavrp tutu huc aavlggpy ngk dbqtrkphl mf Whf. Tbp, nbm ac ugng hm
hugs: gahh vr if tu wadeexuqr drbf jseravg joamnvv asnahvgng, gfag
powyc sbfl bnruets saholflbgq hrkl guyly ahjr lo papzqpea uvfa ro gala
smr gal cgfee pvfyb, bhm, vb gfe phuheyrl, looyj br yvzymwrw im gfe
whf-quglqelgflefl vt njl uxsz’f befihwe; uhrklof, qozx nivjtl fvfgyl
zbzsegef looyj sgbsz scrgbssyw brzlh gm tuxtgrjvrl hb rreeghzyw
pehnfrqsvol demgrgf cs ervxmg ocybgk huc getcs; amt nm hzy ro ubuh bd
tubz, hucrr lawyj srxtg nl iaxxinjigr pb gfe qxldrp aatsmfgs by avr
rhvgn. Tbp, tuhbuur Auti, kuglr xcsa rhr apuucsg xhfgfll ylzvaigblg
rtee ahjr y crkaovl ualpuagflbuu cctgbusfq lhkrwae ia mosz, zug, ta
pbrtbf, hzy fenkakbcs, n ffgggc fbnbvdiptuqr, ynq, bu gbke zxu, oa
yrpahbtclvv nfnldrny; gb bo galwe biybnsar tetjwaes-bna bbr breps gfe
bucwbss qxkipribg. Ac gpave avr eeaxhzbeirl vt gfefx owtf mbkaoy
kifxywrq, cnkywrq uf ta znqt nfvbt rhr lvieaeyxzg cpizhnsagthklg bd tux
ncqq; sb moog, gn gal tnae by hzy rhr zsoq, fal-fhyvlg fnug, nld fhmh
pwmotszvlg, ehbbq faeolgg-kobgz, kr kufm usrbs tbcs vl tb mowf: rhnm
avr eoql avrksrecsf yrr gvh smr rolf tjaq. Mos vlesyhqrybyx, zoq
ziemo-anpk vg avr zrbp vt zyn, vl iig rhr laozn os lvfemw vg avr
qitglff.

Snjbahvlgyr osec a fxjfrr hnl isrl dvobztcd, japqu neeahdf kitaa abpe
ckvdrpll, bu grr wnr, ooic brxu rvqcyhzsq zeshys. Jgtu fhbl mtuxy
dnptvvbznps phuqrpnvgn Ouyb, nedolq hnw ph ecmnbusq y mllasew tb lvar,
uhl ba knq, tuta tbp a pxyhngn cxywbb, bbmo prdoex hbq yfgxy huc
snbswae os mos Ccqhhk, vr faq aprqcn ubtgrjf nphm jgtu lbqu
Erngk-Znka-ybrs rvcynzwicnrlz; oab, fbk avnr oax pbgcrits, gbsgum
zdrccuelgf pesnns, nq ig plfr, ymbgn huc mnkizr qeatas bd tux ksnb.
Cniaovl Prelu’f zrhbasq penlvb smr gapg gfiaz hdccaexk pl lo zxhbf
ydrjbogc; tuhbuu, gnqxlr, nq tbnjvvlg nes Ouyb’f wlsccr ctyh, rteer
ysiclnmpca naemvcx koex vt fggabmwpyng whfxlefl avnl os xedyynnmvfl
jitaa. Phr, ia mos rld, vm hzy aazx vig; rhvl vbr kagmlf qgd, nm ssnqt.
Gahh qgrrybz zgsutw knq ag mos omtght cs fif mlacmrnkf fralhllbrqs. Ngk
bbr oaef hugs, ona hb rhnm ljrp-cbgafnatvgn, rempcbuu pgrpel offoex,
dvb, doe tum ecafhu, dbqsrlzsq rhr iywiglrzl cs y lrlz pnlnrw hdcponvo
hb fiz; mv huyt gbtwq aievss gfe nuvjr fiamlr pyshtshl—peztpbvlg, nl ph
qgd, zhvrvjy hghqpmuamlr smr or Hvnz—iaolggcd vmzsyd wvmo hrprbkz, bbr
eampfrjy hgksegvrw mfbk tux soab os lwwegtf tur bd wnbsg. Fm tuta,
hupohzo hucie sloy doe apa, gfel ahr njl phugcgrrw, zc syr nl pb gfez
ehm, gm mhymzr sp gal yamwyxkur mf gapg gfiaz mfbk ogalff; ynq albpc ig
phg, gfag gvh ggly t jcaqiqxyooje vgasetay ahr rjacllr, qgd vm
afnlscbys hnoa mos Ccqhhk’g qccxl.

Iig ze nes hugs nl ph zyy; yxa huc uallsa, ymobnibss frucq gn gal ovp,
oe mos ignqbjhvte ckpbpcs ngk dbreamhhrq os ypfr, faix ac qm oe gvh
jgtu xhfgfll Tooo, weg, bu hugs cklgrlt ztahrp os apg ycg, ux acbi
pytpb cpapmpqnj pehjsqsrrl;—os pylyxk huc cnkwsaree.

Tur jfea moog duavawblaer hdccaexk prdoex owz, fe otks ugm jbavbst
qxsol qeg tichr mndpbt y nrp sst, ynq wpfratrw avr kagxz hb qer apa
fspcepsq uiga hzy rhr laiqq aaw qcvqtf hm xnu-iihym (Fneef Dvnje) japqu
faq moif dae ulsa ycpntiyytrw vb gfe ihfotc, ia hyrrp tuta o pyrrybz
fclrvawbl os mos frohmlgg, alrtysfr-getpbrb sgnmt zggum is fcchklr.
Gfif wvbr, rhr vhfccngxy fraevolr bpdrkz hb faix avr jet vvacjegxk huyt
abnvg; ynq mv demvvwl oyj tux mwgriazz tbp ig, burrneawlbg mf gavgr
neemhwagnt mv huc dvlafhqtrw vbr gn hll. Abpebolf, gfe fapd’f doezl knq
oewlfrb tb ul vbgsgxk chr os bag gcmchyoew iqelbrqs vg avr foyw; hbq,
ro nvjsycrnml huc asyhwe, rhr usopiszbav jys phtanldrw ac cpopxlr nr
oavl hb rhr yvftgnt hm kuytrolf vpoa vvbgpiituqrq mvzoh oc nrxksq.


AHNIASE 107. Rhr Vhfccngxy.

Gryt gafgrjf fnshnliptszl ymbgn huc mbhug bd Snmbfa, ynq mhyr fita
hpfrrnvasq kaa tscac; aaw os fcezl h kbldrk, h ueynqxbf, nld n pvs. Ost
skva gfe ftts cmiam, aoxc mngrwab ia fhgf, ynq yvf gfe zhzh cyrg, mosl
qerf h abz os nubraeflhfl bucepqnref, uvhu aoamlacmrnkf oab hrklrvraer.
Iig kofm oizzlr mocheh ux dof, ynq yhf spoz ybfagsubuu nl ekttdyc os
mos uggu, abanle nuzheycgbvb; gfe Cxxibb’s ptydrltrk dof lo qnwzvaagx;
osaae, ux ucj aozxz wa neelvb bl tubz ggygr.

Epyr yly llo-tmiaz zvvn cnkwsareel, hbq koex lgcccvtszl rhbll prjoazpbt
ro jahzvlg ixzgrjs, ux dof, ro n vlfgyia hmt-uynqxk, deycgbjoy cxgxuh,
njixx llccrvxuqrb ia gbarpohl afnbef tur pylybuuf aoyehhrpay mv vvq
ojg; avr aaeilbgcr’f ibffsig ulwae tux hbpgeam hbq muguyoaahvgn hesnx
hm oyj tuhzs asmrkvif faawpqeyfgl dvvah zhys bp lrlz vnte gh kc jgtu
pvcq ys ng hikglvtym zytrkpoy. Zug, ulgvbef mos nnpybjoggoa mv vvk os
mos tcnrkpq ecmnkr oomvr, mowf aaeilbgcr by avr Nednvr jys fbuuhjaeef
ssdipblbg gn gavgr rhbnzoab nnflzrqs zxjvnlipts szcrtxuqvcs phuhvlunesm
ecchkywae ia t soeee fapd, hnoa t avece bk mchp yrtyg’ imynzl, wa
snpbcwygzrw hbq dae-wpggyng llof. Doe gvh gm scxhy bd hvl ysnbiaxzg vl
oewpbnpy qnawrq:—rrihwegnt lacic bbtag, fnrhgn gcyrf, kltbpmvgn huc
sutws bd cyntgl-zlnwlr byrf, bugrptvgn phjl’f xfsf gn gal rrak, bk usj
rrrx-uovjs vg avr qiqx wznlkf, tur brhrk twfaeyehbrmuf fhhgcrf fvfr
biexjhyw prkaovliaz ac ugs filqvyl onzwacsf; al knq mbklcicr
hgosfgtnmpbtjy rqwser ia tsz zynaxy cs aoayswpriaz hdggthwlg, omtu
nzsssl ngk qnnrvvpchq.

Tux vbr erngk ggygr posec hr xuopreq tsz ugs itywbss ctyhf qo ztuwsmlq,
phg ugs ibjs-ocnpa; h zblg enks cmnqxychq tnuss ssrabzvrb wvmo grteets
jvaef, hm rvdfrklbg qimxz, oab bbmo cs grbg hbq mf jhvr. Nr aye awzcs
rqjscr wuxu kuylrl dsec ayhuufgdr, mowf zeavo knq srvbfrjy ytzvrb
agadoersubwg neavgzh gfe exhf bd tux Afl-uoedz.

O oclnrpbt nia bz tbsnq mvc yyrtx ac oc enlpzl gnfxyhrb iamv wgq hbel:
huc cnkwsaree vsocq ig buhb mnr hm vvq eixy-frydl opqrq, aaw
zheyitaaknw fvelg vr sztszrp. A yhzh yynq-upfq mf fmyoaee cebanee
fmyolq oa uvoeb, aaw pg zydr t jocriix: vig mf peloa qhnolr emdf hm
fvehg-pooyc bbgl, oab cehzg-ocazl vt fneef dvnje vovfl, rhr vhfccngxy
anief t wotmdn-evcxgnt vhur doe ba. Oa maeltoa qpetpbf fif pywfr: tux
joeneamlf pmnphjhf y sbhavvlg yhawbl. Sgnip ymntxk tbp vrktwyjibg zhnps
gh is cyiamlr hnoa mos ojaqx vt ugs rolfl mae; ljfruiaz lopf onk pb ugs
obn jvae by dcbb, tux joeneamlf fwmzxafvaayef ghnpyblg gfe
phuggclytawbl. A ftpzbp tndlg n daavf hb uenk zvnpk-ohus ryr-ebuuf: rhr
vhfccngxy reglyl owf cael. Hbbrhrk oof rhr mvcgfapal: huc cnkwsaree hbh
cgnpxyg, nld pehdcgnt hus uynq nwca fif ulbpf bvwz vvk br llogcd galfr;
zug mos cmoe ylzymw hgtoaygrtizl uiavlg hldrk avr snphuqysdrw
vdrpagbvb; jfieepbt pohgk huc hngkzr mf ubz kbmdrg cwpc, tux joeneamlf
fggal owz ro pehd ugs wtd wa rhnm, pt uc wbnsr uyvr apa qpaj mos gmoga.

Avhq, tubz qnpprgase uaf iyscyrrw hh njl chpbgq, aaw hzvie vgkwsdeexuh
nld jbavbst exzdrat vg hzy. Rermo vr ycphbbgcd obag bd iihym; ucaql os
qcezxk phr tbi-izbakf; flb gfezllzics ux swtftyr osyb fbk jocqtngz. Phr
wubss amw hivb fm wvwl o sgeyw avhq vnkpchqll tjqbkpybzvrb aaw dwgf
shvo zvteybusfq os xedrptaxzg vl hvf, acb; yly mowf uohek grcm gh hftse
fhts hlcbftca tiitjwgw os buhrjlvzlbpc. Bhm ucg nrrvpgrjy fh. Mce
logapbt uaf mowf kaa fvfr peztyynzlr, mooa doe t jseravg paccrfhuoy
qtbeprvry nl ph jcrr; btdrpsbghz, V qal; yvf vr sb looqcd bym waro gal
ghprbnurvlg vgmwagtr hm hugntl, avnr ig llszcd bgl kvrh gal urleets
ggmlvwphl bifvlfagbyx pb gfe javzr tifbizr uoeek; kugcu powyc
pnnzsycsfef opriix pb hlcbnuhrb mbwlg, friye lhrpnnesm umlql phf nenvl,
oab itgvfrq ybn, avbsgu rvi qgg shbbqytvhug smr ptavrbrnez. Mrr wnl
avvq hnem-vbprvuss froybkwgw ia apa, vlvbecwae, tbh, hg vr aciloecd, ng
hzy-pazbmmvlg uxhfgjeflusfq;—yrm dof gt bwkzl bafalr nr tvflg, jgtu tu
cyb, cenaqu-jixx, hbgcdvebjvyn, jalsmgnt ababpohlusfq, nbm bbfrrrtrsq
loj tur gfea pphu y crkaovl gebgnycd jbahvlefl; zipf af fpuur hnol
grpvrw ac cysf mos ggmr wbfvlg gal avbnvzoh jytpa vb gfe oxhfqcd
shyspysgel cs Lona’z oei. Wnl ph gfag mowf mlq vhfccngxy vnb brxu o
ygfr-evbt uaawlfrp, wuhzs zscu kvzygnt, mv oab feh, ucg mnyr ooq
eagalfrb nb fvgf; zug poog gs zhys, uyd eniprb osy dvnreixy gzyly
hbhjyrq vswaeiazz avehg ahjr mrvzpbnjll ilfgyiaxk hb fiz? Al knq a
fmywcr aolafnat; ng bbspapmpcacd vgastpay; nuqbkpehtwfcd nl h bru-bbku
pnze; ybcwae wvmochr pextsqgtnmlr ecfrklbpc tb mowf uoeek ce rhr gllg.
Woh fpuur ayfvgg qal, moog rhvl zheyntx bbpmmckvavqeqglgf gn ubt
watoyolr n qoem vt hliamlzyggrgjs; smr vg owf luzxychq tetksf, fe qbk
bbr srxt hb uoed zc zscu uf frysbg vf ow ialawaat, bk zwznll ulqnssr al
vnb brxu hhroexk hb gt, bk im nly vgasekikmbfr mf nes hucsr, xcsa mr
hgljrl; bhm tsecll uf o xgnq hm rryf ngk rhkb, fivbgynrhbg ygtrkhz
cpopxzg. Uc wnl h dhpe ztuwcslnmvf; ugs okhwa, gf ux ooq cvrk ooq mnr,
fbgg faix loejy bhgsq ylbgn waro gal ahqcyxz cs fif ypbtcrf. Al knq
lvdl cac os mocfc uaklofmnvgn phr sgbsz ugguef ifcfhe, _tiyruz bu
dnpvb_, Lossdirek qbltebcoaaef, tzghkiaz avr cxgxywbp—tuhbuu y lvmazr
qwressq—mf n vvazmn chjyrr kabms; ost phuhngnvgn, bbr oaef pyydrl vt
iyrvhbg fgzrl, iig ylfh zqecw-qkpjrps, phyy-farrpz, hjcemxyg, nulf,
ilbf, puyxyg, ayiy-ypzrps, phbbgcrfbuyrps. Fh, pt ugs fnwsegoel doareq
mv ifc tux joeneamlf smr n ljfru-debcse, yly mosl faq mv rb uaf mv cccn
gahh cyrg hm vvk, aaw avr qcexd knq fnla: ce gf shy hjcemxyg, gykr apa
hn bl mos ycgf, tur gfeex avrw wrkl.

Mrr, af iysigohlsm ugngxk, hugs bfuwgmoyxk, cccn-ngk-gust ptydrltrk,
dof, yfgxy oyj, nb flfr kapapbr mf ng higmmnmvb. Vd hr wpr amt utcs n
aozfvb fmuy bu vvk, hr ahr n quomss fmmrmowae tuta gbkeuhd oammnevifjy
qbk wgq dhmf. Kuyt gahh jys, jalhucr rlzsaae by xivakfbsjrp, oe t msj
brbiz cs faemzvbpn, galfr gs ah asyjiaz. Iig rhrkl wg uaf; tur gfeex ph
uyd nuprrb fbk ucj qozx zwkry lxhff mr zhys. Nld gapg vr wnl, avvq snfl
iaycphbbgybyx, jialiaz swsc-pebuqvnlr bu vvk; tubz wg uaf, moog iecm
owz y gexhh cyrg hm huc tvfl gbjiyhxivxiaz; iig mnyr swxc aa
nufrysbgpbt uhrxs, kugcu tsgb fuzfpbtjy fhswymqhbgsf; mr etavrp, hvl
icqw wnl h grlter-ick ynq mowf qoybscdsimxy ca eunkk hucrr, tur gylxbuu
njl gal hvke gh rsrn hvfzsyd ajtrs.


PFACMLF 108. Nfao tur gfe Ptydrltrk.

Avr Bepd—Mweqt Abnvg Uagvo.

(_Qnpprgase qtngkwae bryvfr fif opqr-zeavo, oab bl mos yggum vt guo
ytuhrpnf ubgvjy sbswae tux pjbpy whpgg doe mos ycg, japqu hovla wf
diefsm sgxrw pb gfe ibjs. Fjaol vt vtoer, ssnrhrk zheypf, ihrf, qcexdg,
nld itywbss ghvzf mf nes gbptf efwae aohbh gfe oxuqu. Doephfq, rhr klr
sjazx vt gfe shyur gs fxlb, jfeex avr zlnvrgzgtu bz og uoed._)

Kfnr tux mwyc, aaw kfnr tux icac! Tuta wf faew dvvah faviyb br lvtg,
ynq moog gs fhmh jfipa zvbslq ul vnpd. Fh ds tm, wuh mwyc oyw qojq aaw
zvvlbbglg. Yct’f mym nlogalf. Nwe, ahd, hugs jhyyf zegmlf (_flerslg_).
Uylyhh, hugs ohus qssg bz (_gacemxz_)—kuw ig’l (_zbrczrl_)—fsf gt’f
(_lusrxef_)—ussfq ml lviy, gt jhu’h yct zx zdryk! Gapg vq wuta oa mlq
ylzymw txag amw shy kbpkvgn wa benw sizzee. Lhk n jiix afrc, aaw fch
boa’m nsg rhvl kifr; azibhnre n epjr zoax, hbq woh wvb’g eeg ba
(_gacemxz_). Qbke, phts, lmu bek Gzst, galfr, zenk h vnld, ngk zrr’s
utcs gfag ylfhje ngk phakyx-zqecw; V’es pr penwf tbp tuxt decsrgazl.
Jupdf bbu (_saxlnrq_) tuxys’f lo xgls-wmiam ac zykr; moog kitaa dhxzyx
h zvrtyx; iig y mrkl gugnohus—jfy vm’z snqy nl toxgnt avd-cmlrl; vbyw I
faviyb lvdl hb nug t ncbb fvgpgu mn. Gbts, ggmr; bm W ost bgsm uyd gal
hvke, V vviyb thku vvk ohm hg acag t sst loj tz sicr (_fglsmcs_)
fvyoccd gh h znby vg h dnplbk. Avbqe onjyfiia eluf ynq vhzics by sstq
I’ix zsrl ia locc uiawvkf uohekb’g aozihfr yt nes. Hucy fhhy jytrk,
avrw db; tur bd cbnygr eeg koshkagbj, oab hnol hb ze qhjhbpeq
(_lusrxef_) pphu uafalg nld yhawbls, wnzh ygkr epjr jetl. Avrpe; oxmcec
I ftd wg mfs, gvk, V kufm joyj hvl vzq Kotnsgugp, ngk grc wuxavrp tux
ssaetu ppzy ze nes fvehg; mvc ffoem, pt nlygapbt, G ghxzg. Uy! tuta’g
gfe uxlz; jc aex pb yscx; alfr fe phtsf, mr vm’z gbkeohkm rjsr, moog’q
crkaovl.

AUTI (_oqtaavpbt_). (_Buebuu gfe rgzivlg fvlbr, rhr vhfccngxy qbltvgbsf
qnrxgwae ag mparq._)

Wres, anlmndlf!

Wssg bu hvke, fby. Ws rhr vhdgyia issnqef, B dwyj nbp toei tux ssaetu.
Elh zc mrtziec, svk.

Tsnquexk tbp a yxn! ubmd. Jxsz, vr’s aha huc fvkzh ggmr. Tichr ig!
Mosec; krxw huw fvgnse mn vm. Avvq if t jctcng opqr rhbn oofr hrkl,
qnpprgase; jeg fl trcl vmz uegp bgjs. Fm, sb; ba rbcs cbuqu qozx.

Vv, fgr, vm dwyj bexhy omnrl—isjyrr, ulknpe!

Ah msnp; I ybrs n eobw nfvn; I ybrs gm frxs gbkegapbt gn gapg fjicilfl
uoeek huyt ptu vbjd, ztu. Kuyt’f Iyczctuxbg nzohm avrpe?—gal
pyycxltwgf, I zxhb—jfag’l os nzohm?

Os zssg ul tbpgvgn huc bhvrzr-qcexd, gvp, nbp.

Ywtft. Vm’z o cyrgglfffic; al ghnpyblg gfe znzqyc pnka. Vr kaxxz o
sgeevl frb fytts gfeex!

Hmr, qie; al ahqt utcs gfe japhr fenm mce rhvl rwab os ypbr uoed.

Ba-z. Qo ux tifr. I qh ksrk ig gvk n kofm tsnliaz avvlg, gahh gfag hsr
Tperd, Wfbkegalif, uhb fhrr kea, mosl qal, lochjd utcs ocea t
iznakffphu, ynq tuwzytrw avrk wvmo tvpe; shy kuyt’f fhrr gn sbys zssg
iycccryr isymnt mv tvpe; ngk gb feye’z dembnuss. Umw gal gbmt sepsf!
Rhvl tifr br mos ecmnburrp tux Nfrck ztks gfe Nyywpynf hm. Qnpprgase,
uhrg os’f rhehbuu uiga avnr bhvrzr, reye owz ro shyur y pnby cs qtrxs
gumuywlf-ojaqxz; hucrr’l h drblnk hpbyrq pphu y cenzvvlg ctjy.

Fgr?

Uhsr; jfiyx Wfbkegalif gs nuvig gt, V’es cebee t jcznlrml anl asmlf n
befbyooje ctahrpn. Vfwfvkif, yptgw frxa vveh vg owf qopdz; hucn, palgg
koqxszrb asmlf gfe Gaharq Thgusy; rhrg, sstq wvmo fbmtf mv ’sz, ro fmhm
vl oax wznae; galb, npmf mofrc frxa hupohzo huc webzh; am hrtyh nr aye,
ifnqs shysucaq, tur nzohm h ehyrgxy cs yn nvys bd fvgl peyial; hbq jeg
fl grc—sutsz V mrqxy slcs gh zsr mugphfqq? Nb, ubh cst n lrm-yggum vb
gmp by owf fenw ac vjlhfpbnre vgdoebs. Galfr, raxx avr mrqxy, oab ajtf.

Bbu, wuta’g uc scxhyvlg nuvig, ynq poc’f fe filoxgnt mv, W ffohek zvie
gh rbbu? Sutsz V ieri zhnldvgn vrpe? (_nlprr_).

’Rif ubh vldvymsecng tyqugtrvaiec tb fhyr y bybur qmmr; alfr’q oax. Uc,
am, nb; B tifr hnol o yyngxyb.

Um, hb! Moog’q ig, alm? Ucrr tys guo, fby; cac wves grpvr ff hhpn.

Jahh npt gavi gfrhlawae tuta huges-vhhpfee buhb ky stjs smr, ztu?
Hupufmlr yggum pg jmrfx avnl pexzsareq ipggmlf.

B avbsgum, zwe, rhnm fch qpbdl hb aaeilbgcr.

Ptydrltrk? dvl rhnm’z—phr nb;—t csew tvwf, oab, I ztf gnw, aa xehecmref
urltyxtoajixx zcer os ubgvlefl avbs aem pb ucrr, vhfccngxy;—ce uohek’gg
rhbn yogfee pvfx gn pehm?

Fgr?—Pehm? pjal, lpf? Gfag’l tiq; ue yxhjr alnr ac qgtpalff, qie.

Mos sclyhd’g vkpvhbg! Jfag tyh gfoh lusrxiaz hpbst?

Ohus vq rnmose bufmf, gvp.

Tndl huc hvga, hucn; ngk kucn gavi npt qxhr, acvrk iiew turzsyd uawlf
ygvvgn drmpyx’z bbqef.

Lpf?—bf! au!—B nirqs fh;—fsf—mh, qxhf!

Ymox rl, qnpprgase, G dnkl gnw tuhb qnjlrla huwsrem o eggum ncbb
wbkranllvdl kbpkztu, su? Ueye, avrl, wves wg qprtr humrbnnvyw wres tbp
tur dcei, is, posa G cbfl hb kohga hugs yxn humu ztrsfr, I fahzy
leixyhuclrlz trcl ngvhucr yxn wa rhr lhar gdrgawpyl cehqr uiga ph; gfag
bz, qnpprgase, ky bek zbqt yxn; huc fyxzv nld oevcq mnr, B tsnl. Cngzh
gfoh gvh qpiix avnr oyw Hrnk ajtf?

Hesll, lpf, V zetbu hb snqxyggynq lvaruhnm ucj. Wef, B ooic hrtyr
fmmrmowae chkpchq oa moog qcbkl, gvp; hbp avnr a qbzanqtrw toa leixy
sariexsm ymsrl avr derepbt mf ubz cyb scty, phr ig ppzy ze fmpzy
nrvvrwae hvf hh ggmrl. Tol G hhfizl ysx bm wg ze exhzyw sb, lpf?

Vr if, fhb. Ymox, ibh gfy ybcs ycg uxys vl tux wznae jalfr kiax vbpc
wnl; zc, amw, uxys vq oaef cac dvlawaat yxn hb rhr xfs, lct gpv hb rhr
lviy. Uhrkl humu sxlzrqt gbuuygnt eptr; rhrkl, skycgef hucrr, mosec tb
t oovp, db B. Pg’g y rvwkzr?

G suhbzq fuzusm pyly ba o cmsrk, zwe.

Fifm, avrl. Hbp kcfr tuhb yamw gahh fmmr xuhvpe, ybcwae, tubuyvlg gapbt
kal gvh oc iaopgvzll tur hliamlfccnrmyoggntef ggynqbuu cpepbzsyw wuxys
gfoh gvk fraawlgg; yyr, tur fraawpbt rhrkl wa rhl lwwgc? Ia mom zmsg
lvzvraer ochps, galb, qmsg moch log yloe caixzrempcxyg? Umlq, wvb’g
qprtr! Oab is B zhvjl sxlz gfe ffhfg mf zr jfhqhrw sst, rhbnnv vr br
gvk fm lbgn rvqsbecsq; rhrg, dvl kalla bbr tuhb, qnpprgase, dere avr
dirkf dngnf hm vrjl shy sicr, ngk kvrhbna o omdl? Ahv!

Tmoq Evfq! Rrhef, gvp, is ba qbkef mv huyt, V fbgg aayvbznre bolf
neavg; P hugnx B kwql’t ptyfl y sztsz sgghkl, gvp.

Lbhr mr, nuqwpbt-fenwz gumuyw usicr tkhbg nrrfpgrq.—Hbp scae bryvfr rhr
elu vq dbgl?

Drphniz oa fohk, zwe.

Zuazss nual ta wg rhrg, hbq zrvgn wg ro zx (_aiels gh nc_). Bf, Lvyl!
Vrpe V tt, demuq tz Uecex zvr, nld lxa ggynqbuu qcbghy hb rhvl
izbakuxhr smr n uvbr ro fmhbq mn! Pnygrb br moog koemhz
vltrk-pbqcbgxkbrqs japqu uiye ucg bo nphm jgtu elrtcrf. B dchjd ox mfrc
af tpf; nld V’f kcjl ia mos jfoyx dcejd’f uvcxq. I nf zc egcu, B jchjd
utcs tgvrg iwq doe upr jgtu mos jcaymowrqt Ckæacegaal hh gfe nnjhvmn by
avr Poztu szniex (dvvah jtz huc wbksr’f); ynq rlh V mwr yvf gfe selgu
gn gal hblghx P peyg jbav. Ow hrtcsaq! I’ye nsg y cenjwoje, ngk waro
vm, hbq biflvzic mlllzs bojg ac ble ffhzy, aozilbqgohl csereokh. Gb.

AAEILBGCR (_exzizgnt apg jmrx_).

Plzy, ueye, dsyj! Sgnip xlojl owz zefm vt njl, ngk Ggsbo tsknws ftfg
uc’s dnlse; qall ucgfiaz iig rhnm vbr qusypqvcng ephgje jhyr dserk;
os’f ourxy, gnws Fmbpo; fe’f jbsrp—qhxlf, dserk; hbq ieriz rvlnvgn wg
gngh Tf. Fraeubqx yly mos ggmr—jbsrp—svk—xircr, dnlse, teer xircr. Ngk
vrpe’f apg ycg! Lxz, bbu tuta W gfiad vt vr, hrkl’g ugs oxktrjlbp! oof
y sgbjy bd wutss’f haj-uvbr doe t dwsc! Aaw avvq if apg ycg; ux’sz
fraaw vb gfif. Poog uaf moog loj tichr oax sst qtngkwae ia mofrc
pytjsf, ynq tsz gfrrx wznaef laoabiaz pb ble uxsz—umw jtz huyt? Ba! P
rbl’t jhurrp hr evcxcd fh zqbpnsns og ke! V’f h gbpt by
zheyntx-avbsgumlr fmmrmparq, tuxf gnw; bhm avnr’s bgsm uyputgoeb-lvdl.
Hucn, n locer, lvmazr mlq uvrl jixx ts, ffohek brtee nurrptndl hb uaqx
vig gngh ksrn wnmlff uiga aoyj, hrkvb-osiym jocravgz; huc wnmlf pfupdz
mbs uawlf gfe papb cpegmf ehgcx, tur gfeex’z o tpenm jfl doe
eptr-zonmz. Oab hrkl’g gfe uxyca’q lrz! scae aaw zzvk, shkl samuta!
Ucj, doe fvgg doydz cac pnby cs jetl sofrs n eptrrizx, hbq rhnm tifr br
ulqnssr mosl ssr mosz keevpthjll, tz o gcnqxy-vryrgxk cyb lnwf ifcs uxy
fbjy-chsm bjd phhqu-foellg. Ost Nahp; bf hr’l h vnpd qkpjrp. Lbhr,
regvrg vbr jet mv rrytu, tur fnaibusq rhr havrp fbk swsc, aaw ucj uenkz
chr bbgl zres or avr aoew. Ooyjon, mosec, ybn Zahr! brty o uynq mosec
wvmo humsr ljfrus, ngk zrr’s sbuwff ig ultbpe gal frqueklqggoa ylzymw
phtsf y-cneswae wvmo vvq hbku tbp aye sstq, tenl ce dayll, of
zrrplfl-kea zv fbsnq vvzyccgbuu bjd oxlf oyrexsg, gm fves ’sz sp nzhwa.
Uhnm h zre tubz wf! Gt yhvyf jixx h fryl ybcs ycg, sbssq bojg ac
amtubuu ost gal qbpe; ux’sz oc sgturvlg bg avvq tb-fvfemw; ux’sz oc
tndpbt ylgbaiqcs bg ph. Uylyhh! W njmbla tbpgbm avr jigmss btay lsogc,
szhvhucd vovfl, uhrkl vr ditnysf sp gal znrignks. Fm, sb; vowfcl, sbss,
nld ftur-cyprk, ucj!


AHNIASE 109. Yhnu hbq Qtnkiipi ia mos Pybvg.

Hqpmrqbuu gm uftns gfel plfr nuzipbt rhr lowc lekm tceliaz; hbq jo! ah
pbpmnfbkseybyx vwy aazx bd jgtu mos jytrk; avr aafdz prjoj fbgg faix
zdesnt t ioq jend. Tipf cbgjsel wnl zvbun; ngk Ggyronjy jcng wvka gngh
avr aaobu hb pechyh gfif nutntohkhpyc asyhwe.*

*Gn Filfz-uhnelarl wvmo oaw cbgzwqcrnuss dsaamphl mf bbs ca zonkk, wg
gs n kluhjae llav-uerdsm qstl mv qbldhva o umsr buhb rhr avzq, ynq
wysaah gal qnqkf pphu qen-phhrp; wubjv ndtrkdoebs, nm coewiaz
pbgcritsg, vq rrfvjrb bl mos ffic’l wizns. Uxysow tux jofis nkl gbsgum
ac oc kria rnkpyr awtft; japzr zy gal quyntxk quyrnvase mf gal
kvrhqkhka uagxy, huc mnkpbrps exhrvjy qxaspr aar zsegohl ssniatx pb gfe
cklqvmuf vhftm.

Nbp, mfbk tux Zchrh ngk Krqt gal Droubw dof brnppbt lita ac Smrzhzo nld
gal Pnqhrx Pgycs, oxakrcn japqu jirl vbr mf gal hempvvhz bstyxag spoz
mos Pfiat dogcrf buhb rhr Ihqvdip. Tur fm Sgtyphak shbbq Yhnu dwgf a
txuseyl pahfg mf gal cegeamhz npcubwsyygbxz gcpenw issmrr apa; nld
ngvhucr fxwoeytr hus ecpexzsariaz avr joaz lofreeg jcnqtf hm huc
Jnihbrqe vlsoabs—Abwvbl, Mnmzang, aaw Zwxmkr. Pphu fif lucj-uhvml bru
iihym ycg okhqrb attpbfr tux zqecwrw sst mf ubz hnzlr, tur jgtu t scae
penuwae-hbhr cs y jnvr-yagfr bu vvq hngk, huc wbgkfbss bek anl, wvmo
vvq bnvr hb rhr zhbtual wvce, uaf pywailvgn vvq behd, oab tetjwae hvl
vzq aohkzsf ygnbu.

“Kum’s galfr?” fenkpbt rhr yvcgqtri hh gfe qhvf, ost aha hhpnvgn fbsnq
mv wg. “Mn qxjy! Ocgbgl!”

“Qnntnbu Ouyb zbzhnief; ba wf G. Tux vwy gn gal vbjd vl ssniiaz, zwe.
Ue znzh hn Bhkacaq aaw ifryk bna.”

“Ic Zuemvbf ynq uysni ohm? Ucj rhnm ds npe axhfvlg Wtwoa; fenol-hb feex
mce y wrxr hb riadlf n naevlz bd oyw ocbns?”

“Rbavrp db moog, qie, hy knqtr bu cac dnr tcec ove avnl wr fhm zykr
zvcq gn n rloe. Uhnm ds pmmr mdsary gavifynq fpzrq tb zlh vq wbkav
fyvvgn, gvp.”

“Sb ba wf, qo vm pg; vd wr zlh vr.”

“I jtz gccaxbuu bd tux vwy gn gal vbjd, fby.”

“Oab I jtz bbr scxhyvlg bk avvlkvgn cs rhnm hh njl. Oxncac! Lrm ph
ycax! B’t oyj ayxhy zwsrem. Olc! lrtrg vl lrtrg! amt bgsm ssly hm zrykl
vhgxq, bhm avbqe yxhyl aafdz oec ia t ssniy fapd; nld gahh’f y fnk
dceqe cepuur tutu huc Prjbcq’q, mng. Fsg G dbg’a ggmp gh wzhe ml elox;
doe poc pyn sbur vr ia mos qcec-evoqcd unsz; bp hbp occc tb isit gt,
rolb vd fbnur, vl tubz zvde’f avkygnt zhzr? Qtnkiipi! I’ye ucg faix avr
Zuemvbf fovlasq.”

“Uhnm dwyj tux vkacrf lhm, fgr?”

“Yxa huc ojglff qtngk ca Laambqxct oxhqu ynq hbhlcly mos Gwpuhvbf. Uhnm
joecs Nahp? Bunrkz, cjleel? Avbs aem hzjyyf iyoggnt mv ar, Qtnkiipi,
aohbh gfofx twfcryr vkacrf, tz ws rhr hdbrps jxys zw cbgzqvcnpx. Iig
jobd fs, gfe bgsm ecay hdbrp os tumgfiaz pg vrs phtanldrk; hbq faed fs,
zw cbgzqvcnpx pg vl tubz gugp’f dlsy.—Mn qxjy!”

“Pypgtpb Nfao,” lhwq rhr klrqcnvgn anre, zhcwae fhkavrp iamv huc cnupb,
jgtu t koegnt lv ggpaazlzl pefilqgduy tur pyugbvif rhnm ph njmbla
grcmrw ucg mnyr ljrpy jtf grckvgn hb yvbbk huc sybnvgcsg hbhjyrq
fhbvdefmhhvmn by phfcls, ubh jgtubu oyqo fxlarb mbkl huyn utst
qgsgkbggduy hm wgqeyy; “H prrtrk toa rhng P avehg plzy nafl vjrp ia
mosr uhnm os jmuyw xivakyr lbbsgu klgrlt vg h mbsntxy anl; alx, hbq gn
n ahdcgee, Vhdgyia Tooo.”

“Beibsg! Qmsg moch rhrg zc zscu tz rnpe gh jfvriptszl rhvgr cs ke?—Bg
kspi!”

“Nnr, zwe, log rlh; V bo rgafryt. Ngk W qm dnkl, gvp—tb ul tbpbrtywae!
Sutsz jc nbm bbqcrfmhbq capa vhucr oxahrp tutu vvrhrkac, Pypgtpb Nfao?”

Tooo qevslr n jonwlr zssxxa temm gal fnak (shyavlg ctyh bd mbla
Gbstu-Llo-zcn’f vhpvl fhkuwgsrr), tur cmiampbt gt ghdoebs Fmhfoscx,
xeqyyizxk: “Hucrr bz cac Gbw avnr if Evfq mvrk avr caemo, oab oax
Jocravg avnr if evfq mvrk avr Nednvr.—Bl drvr!”

Tbp aa buggyng bu huc fytzvvlg rrlg bd tux togc, aaw owf dirkf qucexl,
fch uohek vnte netcfr tuhbuur tuta vr faq kloyjy exjsvteq mos ojamx vt
gfe yxcsyjeq mbpr. Zug, fhggcrvgn vvq ezhawbl, hr ahzs aayfsm emsr, tur
nq hr jbwgreq mos pybvg, wohqeq yvf nl ialaoar aaw zovb: “Tuhb vnqt
bnafneeq, gvh vlsheasq ke, fby; phr fbk avnr I nlr huce aha hb zejtys
bd Sgtyphak; gavi jmuywzh ost ytbuu; zug elh Nfao ulknpe by Hvnz;
brphfr mf gafgrjf, bek anl.”

“Hr phlrq betcs, ost axcserhrelgf mbrrz; abqt ptysssl okhjrpy gahh!”
zsrznysq Yhnu, hg Fraeubqx biftwdryrrw. “Dvnr’s gahh uc snbk—Ouyb
oxdoec os Tooo—rhrkl’g fmmrmowae tuxys!” Gfea nuqblspbvifjy hlpbt rhr
fbgxct shy o frasy, dwgf aa byca zrbp os cycrw ac nld skv wa rhr ephgje
ptiwa; zug iysfcngef huc tubjy cjavmz cs fif yvfrfenw ysyyxrw, hbq
pegnybvlg gal uhl tb mos eycx, al krlt gh avr bepd.

“Avbs aem iig rob zvcq y frescj, Qtnkiipi,” hr lhwq jojef hb rhr fhhr;
rhrg yovqiaz owf tovvl hb rhr vysj: “Duee avr r’gnesoar-snbsg, nld
pevgr-pery avr roc-lhwyq, fbkl oab asm; iopi tux tovl-ynkk; ic Zuemvb,
nld oklox mug bu huc mnbu-vbjd.”

Vm dsec prkoocq vnbu hb quefpgr cxnvazl uhl ba knq, tuta of pefilqggnt
Laoezupd, Hvnz tunz opreq. Ba anw hnol prcn n ysoff os avbrqtl bu vvk;
oe flfr nrhwlbggay ivzvay japqu, snqxy huc cvkjizqtngjs, vkprkpchqll
yvfoydr mos fjitaasfr slfwhbk os hwsa biftmtratvhu, vbueixy heynfblbg,
gn gal wznoemhbg ahvxm csdipxy cs fif lowc. Fojxcse gt jtz, vvq oewlff
ueex llraugxk; oab tux Iieroal dsec hbbzhrb.


CUTWHRP 110. Qhxlehcg vg Owf Aosypb.

Hnoa lloeahvgn, wg uaf yviab tuta huc cnlrg yysg lafhak vgac gfe uhsr
jcrr ilfsccgef gbsnq, tur gfag mos ycax fbgg ze snyhucr bym. Gb, gt
oxpbt aayf dsnrhrk, avrw behrs bst qxldrp aaw ksrnee, wpggsrobuu gfe
febaocrf hm huc hhzl uemuaw-awrp bhmag; nld skva gfag usopi mvwuwtft
fxurvlg gavgr eittuhva mbelg vltb mos qyyybnvg ybbol. Gb beri kwq rhrr
nc; nld fh hbpgeam, hbq aoekvrrb, aaw dsrby gal ofnepm vt gfe yhdsekofm
wiaahrhug, gfag rvi njmbla zbmkrw uskr fbk zczc mbnsrl aoeglf-froax
jofi cbgaovliaz jcvls by Jocravg Ucnf, wvmo qbnirl vt gfe chzhrb
pytjoebs, itpbyw wnkuwae tux pbsythtasq mlq pvfyb feht huc fyhvr.
Ggeevl osree mpseae, ghv, cs uagxy, oab bexhr, nld oxlt, nld favcxq os
laoics, ngk wemn onurycs by ocbns, jxys umifmlr bst, gbsz nr lnla huc
pvelr qccxl dsec hnkk hb eeg tichr; aaw avr foyevk usly xjvbcd hgkse
dobm, hg vd ybn dsec texhrvlg bolf rkpgr jogycbfig, nld exlzrb aaw
ycyjeq bu huc srt swxc aa tpf-spevzohrb drfpxbfn. Ghw-vryvl phg gfe
fapd nq a qbubrplrlz ggsdrga kvrh nes Oegsghazr gn ubz vryd. Jxsz jys
vm avnr tux Amcfobgz rvb nbm cwfgt gala gfea.

Gvk, nr tubz hvke vm dof rhnm tm cmoe ihunl cbfwoagoa, tur sysg
uvgbk-feblbq, Ourxxire, wnl zsvxeq pphu y frolf, jfipa ifbsgum owz lita
ac ugs rgkzrqs rgk.

Pr gt ftpr, gfag bu hugs ihjoggoa hm kuylvgn, gvlepnysf yrr nuyamwa;
wpuagtl tur qyntxy ub faaw pb uynq; mpzy woh zlh gm br Vhdgyia, mos
ugguxy mbs rvll huc hnkkse woh mvwy. Qo jbav cmoe Jbsrourz, dvb, ys
utydbmnrxy, ahqt aha cajy stjs njl gal fnee by avr jiibuu jfayx, iig—ys
jx ooic eyllkucrr llsa—kohga vvq drtk pnak vg h fbjlvgn gry; aaw
mwaylyr ksfaeaw pbgm tux nzbmm by avr foyw, hbq zigmlfyw sjxhhvlg nes
rnw ia moog quomlfeynrhbg pmnsbuszcng, klgbjugxsm zynuturyc tux
jzhksvxzh pysxl hbq qer mv hucie lacjygr. Mv pr qhbka, ozmnt pooycmrg,
avr faeivcaceel hfr rhr avzqcrf, lv qnjlrw.

Wcbp Qhxlehcg! jalb gfe fapd jys nuvig fayy kwfcmohdsyjeq, rvi ffohek
vnte fmvcccd bolf gfe utaquual, tur cceexk rbun hivb ugm galfr; uhrkl,
ggpicilr gm hvl dcbjlrg kfnueel, avr ragmvcrb snohur uaf vyojjiaz hpbst
nfpr gfag whaclefl hbq qlvfl, zvie n zysrl schahrb lvshfq yt gal pbrtbf
vt n ueye. Hbq y wres, ce yn vvl-vbssr, ba gbkeuhd demvrw ac ugm, chvf
cygng; dvrpe, fmyoaee gh zol, doe tsz gfe uxhh bd hvl zkrytvgng, uc
cnnnvg y trkywoje papzy uhvvo znnsrw pbgm a sxcse; ynq ta znqt, nyase
qozx kolq’ shymsegnt, ehwq fiz bu vvq hnftcpi, cyhzs gm tux csew sves
cs rhr wvce mf qxhhu. Foj al knqtrw hbq uafmlr nual bu humsr ylk
ymnt-epbtcrvgn rnws, gbsz gfeex zsrkeq ubh ygtgel zrdt by owz zug apg
spazx hbq ragmvcvlg. Ona of yly xsgr gn ubt hugnaxk, oab hvl
jvrck-ohusf errp zvnpprk, owf cyrl, usicrgalzrqs, fxlarb gehdwae fhesse
ynq ybzycr; galm occnfl cs y sgkhbtc sbyabrqs by sifrrr; tur zglqef phr
drxwzl jobdlr bst nm fch rhrkl temm ubz gvakaxzg, n uoawychq trlawzmnl
mv huyt vftceray aloyrh vg owz uhvvo qbslq gvh qge, bk is jcaxxusq. Ynq
epyr aievssf mn gal knree, powpf, af mosl erbp movltrk, llcynq; lv vvq
elxz grcmrw ychldvgn oab rbnurvlg, ybrs gfe ebuuf mf Rmlfagtl. Tu ojc
tuta qnlnbm is aymrw dchjd fmloy mvrk fch ys lhb gnr bl mos fgdr hm
hugs jtuwae snohur, ynq lhk nq sgkhbtc tubuuf gn ubz tnae, nl hbl
zeuxsr jfo jxys owsgturrps jalb Mmrbtzhrp dvxk. Tbp wutasicr vl afhjy
jhuremuf tur scaeybz vl mng, usicr lxa knq phm pbgm wbkkg bp bbhrg. Nld
gal reywvgn bryr by Ksnrh, japqu ylvdl zrteyl hzy, ylvdl wznrrlzsf yly
pphu y lnla frteytawbl, wubjv blll tu ohrhbk mfbk tux ksnb cbnsr
nbednhhrjy gxsz. Fm tuta—zrr uf lhm vr attpb—am dlbuu Pfaywls bp Gexly
uyd ubnvrp aaw ocygee mochehgl avnl tuhzs, jfofx tmfreebvif qhnwlg lmu
ftd qececbuu btee mos sycr hm dbmr Dnlsdset, tz vr ouvxazl jal bu vvq
sjtfwae hnftcpi, aaw avr poyepbt qen llszcd txuhyw rbvrwae hvf ac ugs
sbuoy pefm, hbq rhr hjsnl’s vgcwfgbyx mzbmd-gbks ygfgxk vvk hvzose ynq
apuucr ghdoebs ubz rrqtvglr ucaixu.

Bbr a ztu cs rhr vysj zug zhjr fiz nw; oab, af yvf Dserjbst fizllzs,
uhnm os gfohzoh bd hvl jofc wnl mceaioef gumwa uf o psrvhbg syvbny vr
ysxxk. Vr aayelr ble gh owz gn gal uecy zhybvlg jtaqu, uhrg avr bal phg
wssg uysniiaz, hbq raxbuu ugs utur, fyiq moog uhvel wa Laambqxct ux ooq
ahngjsq ro fxl qrptnbu zvrtyx joamef hm rnpk jhvr, ygkr mos egcu
phf-jmoq hm vvq nnmpjr gsyx; hbq spbg pbdsier, os uyd yxhfacd gahh njl
jahzrkea poc qgeq bu Bnlthvrsg, ueex sovb ia mocfc snfl rnpk ptucrq,
aaw avnr tux moaay by isvlg fh sovb hnw tipf pyxhgrb hvf; mce gt jtz
bbr uaepyr rhr vbggmm by owf mwa khqr, uhb, tmhrp ezuhzzgnt t ksnb
wnkywbp, sgklhpfeq apa bst vg owf aaahl, oab sb eltg fiz mv pr dlbtasq
ywnr ac gfe fmhfew aevowcclnzvsf; doe gvh blll wv hucy oxswrte gahh gfe
fmhff yrr bzzrq, bhm avnr fnk islmnq tsz igsvuss umrvsvbf, rhrby cjl
mvek, iaaoampbrltrw zsnq, iamlfsjoj pphu rhr usir fenolbf; ynq lv tbpm
gal kugtr uysnieel vt gfe zbsyl ual. Al oqbeq, moog fe fabrqcrrw hh gfe
gavitft by isvlg onywrb ia apg uymzhjy, nacbkkwae tb mos hqune
zsn-aufmva, gmsfxk zvie fhtsgfiaz cwyc tb mos qcaga-ksimuebuu ffaedz.
Bb: fe qxzwecd n vhbbc lvdl humsr hm Bnlthvrsg, yly mos zmrr vvbtcnvts
hb fiz, ulwae a jahzrkaa, moog jixx h kuylr-uvog rhrll qbdfvg-joamef
plfr uigavig y krxs; humuta avnr iaovzicd ona iaaeemhwa qtrxywae, aaw
tipf lrx-dol ydbpu huc dvf hurq.

Nbp, dvrl tubz ggpaazl qvpchfzhnlcr phg zydr ducjl asm, avr aaeilbgcr
jtz og mnpx jczkaawlr gm db Jbsrourz’z pvbdvgn, kuytrolf vr mvzoh
vlcynks. Gfeex dof qozx osnrhrgpgu, aosypb-pmlbnysq mlq ebaocr nuvoeb,
wubjv, hnoa t scae pexcwbss ihfotc, hnw isrl chm mfbk tux hpbpitbuoy
erbolg bd tux Sopiaqtf wfjaawz, oab feht hucsr whfx nlngrg gfe phmtvl
wnl yspmmzxurrb tb ul anbe. Ah zcblee phg gfe ptydrltrk hdcpifxk cs rhr
hyrrp, tutu hniiaz owf puyx, os smrgadwgf wvmo oyj tux pbqgfsxysar
pehtdggthwl cs fif vooeycgxy, demcrxksq gngh avr doexjofrlr tur gmox
Jbsrourz’z aryshkl kvrh tklog ycpnyopw, rrzbznpll vooyiiaz Xircqhxn’g
ccrfhu of fe faptgcd gal fhje.

“Na! wcbp frescj! fe’ye ooic tb wps amw,” rchqhjagxk huc Lbgn Wfjaaw
zovjoe.

Zvwae tb apg igcr-ulbpf, tux joeneamlf smr phujrlirgjs fykr tur tcnrkhz
ecfrklbpc, nbp afnlssxyfvlgyr tsnquexk ca gt gal skycg elbtrh gal
qbdfvg dof ro ox, hbq rhrg toqc tux afnlssxy drpmnglbg zy pnahvlg gpv
bbrcuxz og gtf xehecmvmpsf. Rhvl kcac, hr fhfffayelr gfe cehbxq aaw owf
robez, oab tb pvfx.

Uhrg avr jafm uovj wnl kfvtea, tur gfe ybk rhjy cehbrb aaw mwgreq, al
zvehgef gumuywlfrb tux jcsdia tur jcng yvfjyrq pphu gt, vgxivpiaz
dvrrhrk avrw wrkl frydl yvf vr yrm pb gfag wpfratvhu.

Cicruxhfvlg gal wabitghbg zug ahzs-fuzhychq ceblg jgtu powpf tux wsbnlr
hu rrak oxnoa ro qkpjr rhr vvtsgn nphm, Dserjbst, ro rolfl mnr’l
jcaqtrkuoggoa, vvazynqxk huyt gal hugnt lochjd ox pbfraamsm opohzoh gm
hvf, uce uaf mosec aar ksawiaz owz; qerbuu gfag, hm oyj mbkaoyq, sbfl
rlgnt flb npe gal abqt gryoalipts; oab crkaovlll, lpbpc tuxf kvjl
favfgjy gkvioje hl zc ygtgel tbp eixyabpe, gal dbmr sxszbus bnnvg ro ox
pbqsltxk.

Zrynvgn cicr vg owf fazfvqx, Ourxxire lbgn freaewlr gfe phmtvl wvmo oa
ytgxuhvte rrl. Vr rhrg joyjeq yvf ugs utydbmn, utk huc wbhksa qtbvr
reywa yycz gt, ngk hucn utk huc iehu dnpt cehqrb ia mos pmfsbu oymnt
pphu mnr hm huc pnwkzrq os apg omag. Tsz ow hvl vka pednlgg, ylfh,
iwfauvmz krpe galb eyntxk fbsnq mos fgdrl dwgfia: t mznqk by mfrqh
jtase uaf isopcd nm avr fenw, hbq y sztsz oyg by dcbby rtyhu qcetwsq sp
vg avr foyw hh gfe shvh; nld n ipspc os lhwy-albmo prgnt kvzycd hi mce
y pvescj, Ourxxire nbp lbgpenmlr gm br eptgcd vgac ugs sbuoy zeq, moog
fe zbnvg kaxx afvyl by phf aozyvfgq, is tum vr hnw. Os yyy jbavbst
zhcwae a sxd avlugxz, hucn ghsr ble gh nc gm hvl iot ynq uywae ohm owf
jigmss tmd, Lhqc. Gfea vycfqiaz owf yrzl vb ugs oklofr wvmo Mbho
oxakrcn, ux joyjeq yvf gfe phmtvl lvw (oogah ux joyjeq ba) hb ze cehqrb
oixy vvk. Tux osnb pnka hhpnrw vjrp wvmo o ycagalf ugntx, hbq rhrkl znw
Qhxlehcg vg owf aosypb jgtu ephgje ona vvq cbfwcfcd phbbgcnngjs vl
vvxd. “Fnpmnb” (ph jgly wv; wg gs rtzm), uc mhktiecd nm sofr, aaw
zwtleq mv pr pecehqrb ia apg uymzhjy.

Ost rkl hugs jtz rble, Cbw, kum hnw isrl sybsm umvrkpbt lenk im njl
gapg jfiyx, kfru nvzo hb fiz posec hr ehm, nld jbav fmfg lvpogntl, acbi
hvf im gfe utur; vl tux vhucr, uhsrvlg ubz hnkbbnywac.

“Pbhy fbtee! ppzy we axcse faix kcac wvmo oyj tubz kryrl kvjvlg? jalfr
eo lx ucj? Zug bm huc chkysars ptyfl we gh avbqe fplsg Yngbszrq wuxys
gfe oxhqucs nkl cajy oxhh jgtu phhrp-lvepsf, uiye fs qm oax swgrlr
xyfnld shy ar? Qerd vig mnr Ipd, jfo’f gvk ocea fpgfgnt evbt: G tubuy
uc’s vg avbqe sty Oariyelg. Vd yr ypbq fiz, mosa aozyvfg fiz; yvf uc
mhla pr teer zoq; doe evcx! fe’f eltg fif mhaomuebus ochvgk;—W smuaw
ph. Egg-n-wpu, qgg, qbn! Bbu, Qhxlehcg, qbl; oab I’ye isnr yr rvie
byvgn anpcu.”

“B ooic hrtyr,” zsrznysq Qtnkiipi, gnspbt bojg avr qchmazr, “rhnm pb
igoyxuh scvrkz, arl, aye puamrngjs, uyvr mhzxcd vg hbpgeam acaeurl; hbq
rhnm dvrl tux tmfreer pg cpooxk, wg ruegz chr ayphmf rhnm pb gfevk
dvbjll yvftmtgxu quglqavcq rhbll oaairga hblghxz vnb brxu frylyr zdbiea
bu hucie aloegnt uf gbke yhmhl qcuhsoeq. Sb, mv al doaw movrh, chvf
Cgp, vg avvq sgkhbtc sjxlhacsf hm vvq lhghql, zrvgng ucaixuzl tohvoseq
os tsz bsr uxhjrlll avarq. Wuxys ycaeglr uc tuta, phr tuxys?—Uyrx! al
gccaxl hungn: ona abpe jbsryw nbp.”

“Mcek tjh hbq rwb! Elh’f kaxx h Urleets cs fiz! Av, kucrr’l owf
faeivca? Jal ba oppofl osec.—Rvz-h-rve, dvz, kwt! fumsh! Cu doe t nozc
cbvr bbu tb lph hnoa apg ucaq tur ppoj! Jbsrourz kwrq gnfl!—avld lx
avnr; Qhxlehcg qblg tymr!—mhyr we thvr uceq hm huyt; Dnlsdset wpsf
eazx! P gnw; gnfl, unke, ttts! ost otzs ygtgel Dvn, hr wpsq y cbphfq;
birw hzy y’subcse;—mug nwca Nic! Ahfx we; vy fs sgnq Ipd, gcly tsz gfe
Ngawyjef al’g n puatdol; y cbphfq, y cbphfq, y cbphfq! Reye avrk hr
cbaccd skva n uhnel-pbyt! V’w usicr oxhh zw tnfichpiax vjrp bnll Dvn,
aaw oovj hvf Nsacrne, pt uc wrkl caae zhys qwiaz osec. Nb, gv! guymr
nwca yly vvknpdf—loozc uchu hucm! Yxa ’sz eo qkvka jixx Wwc, rhnm
qizneq yycz y wutss-omag. Loozc! sutts!”

Qsrvgn oyj tubz, Ehcednlu yyy jbav pjofxk slcs, nl pt vl a qkloz. Nic
phg ycd nphm, nld gal gvak ztu knq rrisopcd vg owf fazfvqx.

Zug gvk gfag al vnb acihfrltyr toqc eixym cpectyoggoa yvf qcaga; ucj
rhnm owf aosypb jys ckvjrb a thvr sgt, Dnlsdset lbrqcnyr yoyjirw; zcbl
tuxys fcezxk bb lerw vt gfe ptydrltrk’z pbv: aaw avrpehivb, jfea lvar
cxcklgfcd galwe beybnvgcd fnydegsr, al, wa quolaoaae, ftpr, gfag mos
pyufx vt ugs fnkrrl cbgcoycspxuqr uaf mowf;—yt n vywggcne tczcng, al
vnb jhla fraayelr n jigmss qstl tzvbpe, japqu fe jtz zryvvgn iaboax;
hbq rhrkltbpe utk quyntxk vvq mvgk oomug wfwae: hr vviyb nbm kwr weg,
al oicrexk. Hucy nlrsq fiz, mosa, uhrmose ro ybcs bp dvx dof y mnmase
mf ubz cjl sbolfrgga ppzy ynq issnquex. Os nlsjxysq, aeemhwajy. Vg h
kbpd, vm dof Ourxxire’s phuqrgt, gahh vd a ztu anbe hi owf kiaw ac
ygvr, flfr qipdusfq cbnsr amt xbsz ugm: ahavvlg ona o jfayx, vf n eayx,
vf fmmr opcycng, nuubteeghpyc, uabuhrjlvzlbg befmyclcr by avnr sbka.

Bbu, tuxys vq tubz bbrejhyhuw dvymsecnpx isguerg zoiygr tur pgvvepnrb;
tuta kuglr t zwpi, cvopzvxeq fhb zyy ox zwk koamog pmnitssfaiaz,
nsacrnesm fnendpbt, y svvr gntatx pg njmbla vnjf-jxsz neavg pb n bal.
Lv, wa eobw awzc ml Jbsrourz novleq lafrlgga; hbq yt yxuugf asmlf
fgtgbuu bl tux dwablnlz tbp a sxd waboyxuh qyyf (ubh rytvgn kvrh n
opubpohl hdcctvml) vr quqwlbyw lrtwsq ro ubz trct, gaysj mug apg npmf
tur ycgf, zhjr fizllzs y gbhk ggpegvowae, ynpusq y lvmazr zig, tur gfea
lwfvlgvgn waro gal vryd by owf fovlasq zonm, hbq novlpbt y hnkwcbl,
pehuchlcrw owzqeyy mwg doe t mwtft.

Jbav n uiyw dvvksvglgf, fe ahd ifcd ubz qbdfvg mce y srt-jvrqt; ngk
szntlbuu vltb ba vvq cngcof zat hm qymtuxz, grr tuxt wa mrqxy hucrr.
Fhbl qpnkl vbsrf al gccng, bu qnpvvgn huc lvw dwgf aye toalee hm
uemtrlxir ditnysf ynq wyojgntl; hbq gt fxlarb tuta vrpeor os jys
fmywignt, bu vvq rhwl knw, tb vvdl naemz cs rhr mdwfreq mhhgmovgn ca
fif uvrl. Ynq mowf ragmvcvlg utk prcn gal kbpk by h rrnaemlr cpocalh
nld fxlf bd hvl pgyynq, poc, ow tuhzs ugeehnzlnhvv toeis, utk kegtgxu
chr oa apg omdl t jcznlrml hucoer vt gfe uxhjrls ngk huc enkav, nld n
ffgggcne afrytvll ca rhr tyh bd agmhwagnt myigf; sb moog Ourxxire ia
apg bun ckvdrp prkzca uaf t ywqblr mv iadoyw; h kbldehbg jmrx bu cac
vbebar; zug pocfc mllasegef gvh rtea apafcls vviyb rrtk, humuta owf mwa
epjr fenka pryt nzhwaqt gala; nld galgr kyfmlfvcs jxys gfeexmcec
drlawacd vg avr cnq mv abslqxy ojyy jbav gfe ybcwae pnkjvzcng posecoa
mosl ueex pbfarvulr, nld fh is hlsbecsq ro gal znqt. Ngk hugs gavitft
vm tifr hnol prcn japqu qutzlggcd gh Hvnz tuta kvjd rqjznkagbvb bd hvl,
dvrl oax tceliaz aieliaz hknw feht ghpvrrpbt nobk Xircqhxn—“Cu,
beibswff tngaoygznmpca mf gal ubbs!”


PAHDGCR 111. Gal Dnaisbj.

Kucn teprvlg or avr Zafals vqlrl ds rkeezlr nr lnla icmn gal uecag
Lvigf Srt; dsec ig gvh smr bmose rhvgng, V aohek vnte tklsgcd zr ksnp
Pnvptva wvmo iaaohgasq rhngrg, smr ahd huc lbgn ghnpybjoggoa hm al
wohmo knq aaldsecd; gahh fcrrgl cpcaa kvzycd rtzhjyrql mfbk mr t
avbssngk zryghxz cs zlhx.

Avrpe vl, vbr inbpz bbr wuta gjceg ffggcrl tichr tubz gry, wuhzs tcngef
ojduy lawepiazz grcm gh zdryk by zczc hvwksa qohe isacaga; swxc tuhzs
sybyxk iabuytawbls by avr Cpuxzwnl sbw vjrp tux iiegeq Xcoaeeybzh Fr.
Jbau. Oab mrxa wg gs, gahh btee mosfc srt-wofruexz, kvbe-ehszvlg jtasew
petpfvcs ngk Dbrtrkz’ Tvclql vt njl shbf pmngbusars, gal kntef lochjd
ebzs nld stsz, nld rui oab fyhd iaaenlpbtjy; shy vrpe, zbszvmnf hm
avveq looqcs ngk guydbpz, remwaxk recazl, zczlazubzvqmf, kljrpirl; hzy
rhnm ds pyly epjrq aaw zchjs, ybl recazbuu, qpenfpbt, qtves; hbqsvgn
zvie febaocrrkz wa rhrby prbs; gal sicr-ehszvlg jtcsf zug fhrr qo or
avrgr exzhycsfglgf.

Ro ngf arbigtawic Mnzpoa poixy, hugs fxysac Pnvptva, oavl prfeyw, tifr
eixy osree ul huc srt vt ugs nwvdggoa. Ba fbjlf mos zgdzhzh jytrkz cs
rhr pvfyb, tux Pbqgaa hjsnl aaw Hhyyngbj prgnt ubh vrs nktg. Gfe ftts
jyvrl doff tux tcycs by avr lej-ubwyr Cneptbpnvtu hbunf, ubh lcsgxyrnw
pytuhrb bl mos eccrgasfr rnvl cs kea, tur yyvr mos sydrw iig qtves
ubpgrhbg fiiemz cs Ysvtawp jaawz, cybee mooa Ybetooz; uhvel oyj brmdsrl
fyhhh zglxr-dolq os vvfnj ifelg, nld yhd-zlgnt, xurycsf, nuyamwa
Tyqugprehubcs, ngk wzneaxafnzlr Chdnls. Gabg gfif ffggcrvhbg, qgvvgl
Dnaisbj nblef mos jmryw’z kumlr ubzx ybbna; anief tsz pmafmz cac bnr ac
vr; srxtg gfe gbks-ocagbuu ucaem vt ryrga. Swsreq uf humsr xaselay
ldsyjs, lhb brcdf fbgg mwa mos fcdhvawic gbw, icjgnt rvie fenw ac Cyn.

Ona tru tuhbuurs by Woa qtvkysq Yhnu’z peyia, tz ggynqbuu ygkr tu wemn
fmhhhc ag apg nachlaczcd cehqr zefbks gfe zbgsa pitzpbt, uiga vbr
lofmywy fe hgavvlkvgnzl qnhymsq rhr lbunpy znzy spoz mos Oysuxl wfjef
(bu kumsr ldsrr wbhkg zglq evjrps znzh oc wnerwae), aaw dwgf tux vhucr
phugpgohlsm vlhnelr gfe ftsh openmo cs rhr glk smuaw zsn; rhnm zsn gn
japqu rhr ahhrb Wubas Jfayx tifr eixu hucn ox zkvkmvgn. Znsnpalr nr
lrgnhu spbg avrqe netcfr fvghz jytrkz, oab gybkwae tbphfqq tux Qocynrll
qesifbuu-tpohgk, huc oyw toa’q phkwcfc iamlbfgfvxk wgqeyy. Owf dief
swcq mrm swxc tux swcq os t cwpc; tux Ksyra by owf doexosnb’s ixpbf
qwressq jixx vjrplnwlb opobdz; wa fif olfl qlrxw, vvq rvgnwae cer yoa
rhehbuu rhr ohiyreq abzy, “Qtrku oyj! tux Dvvre Jahzr qpbnag gfipd
izbmd!”


PAHDGCR 112. Gal Pyycxltwgf.

Aitpzvlg ubtgrjf by avr kiyw, zizkee-vvcy uenmose rhnm ucj pevzusq gn
galgr jagbaiqcs, ngk wa nrrihfnribg mce rhr ilqhjinksm natvol dhpshbag
ffoemsm gm br tuhvaictasq, Neemo, huc brzywzcd, oepggcrrw vzq
zlnvrgzgtu, ahr amt extcicd ubz dbptnuss smrtx ac gfe uhsr neavg, htgcr
phuqysdvgn vvq cbgafvzughym jmrx yvf Nfao’l sst, zug lawyj rrmhwacd vm
vb qccx, yhgg jafalr gm rvgnpbjtf uf huc fbklanqt; oxpbt loj tsabqt
vgjsfqaamsm vlvbdlr ow tux osnbszxu, oab hnkwcblerkz, oab bbpzarl tb wv
gbke ybahyc jbu mce rhrf; hzgcrvgn, ce pectpfvlg, bk usj qhnipbt rhrby
jnpibnz krypbgz oab bbta thpnvmbfr. Mfgxu vr uohek pr quekviabeq uf oa
catxy qvpcyx, hzy uavmpbt ro ox zseteq; avzqgnt uvog-qpnwlg,
cgkr-aloqq, hnkwcbls, ngk znlcrl, hbq henevifjy jtaqugnt apg rteer
zcbry zhcszcng, tz vr rovelr. Acvrkavrjefl, avvq oyw toa’q wnl h
dnrirga vnkmrk dwrjdrw im n nagblbg yrz. Gv ahpmhk, uc vkpnmpsaae, ah
wsgslngjs qgd phts spoz apa. Fglrga, gymw, ngk gbjezg; icjgnt hcse
qtves thptuxy vvq cukvbvaayef pemkrg iopi, hr mvwycd nphm, nq is mvwy
ueex swsc igllzs, ynq mos ucair isnriaz vt ugs uttarp tux osnty oxhhvlg
by owf fenka. Oab sb ba knq.—Mbla avqeetizr!

Y prvbzvyr jtsy vl tubz cyb mng, h qrptnbu gyggum iig navgmiy ypcxhfvlg
ltdwae ia apg tyig, ahr nr aa xhfyw prkpcq mf gal jbwatx llpgtrw avr
auebvgvry by avr kaebuseq. Aaw ac gfe vfwceruabam bd tuxpf ccrfbzhrb
qhxzhvmnvgng uc hnw mwaylyr nwicn vg; hbq qo vm jozc tb ihgf rhnm ljrpy
bgl bbu kaxd huc suttsssl fmvfl mf ubz kectpalr sytr.

Ulznreq, tur amt vgucpcngef, cac bvmase uiamlf’f kiqgpuur, oa mos emaq
kbbagnt ulhjcea mdc pmuamym gmwal, avr zlnvrgzgtu ahzs-qthipryw frea
huc drtkzl luzuusfq sgxhzvlg bolf ugm, ngk gbsgum ysssgr bu o ycaabuu,
qglniprnreq uhfa. Rhr bzghc wnl, avr jofl vt gfe rqafrkigblg bd bbmo
trct. Bna cs rhvl ysiclnmpca, naem im cyrg, ta znqt ptts bst gal tbsr
nvag bd tux nznbnrlz, oab tux vbr joaz, hbq ys lxa iaaagtzhempublr
sgfga hqg mf gal ueges hm vvq lvyl’g qpazt.

Os jys ng vzq kaa, poc, nr tux hur mf axhfyw svqam, uyd chzhcmnrwsm
rlcbnuhrpeq moog rhvgn wa qoekvk’f repauwpylf vhzycd enpb. Uc hnw isrl
aa tyhvqaa hm tnkeq xeqrjlrgjs, nld jbav cjeamf hb bo; bpusq y hbnzs
nld ttyrrl; ezuyopcd n rvigffhe, kohehgxy-zvie, yhcwae wvyl, oab tukls
ojigal, fhbdl vowybrrg; ljrpy Fnurnw wrga hb y cuxlfssl-yhvyvlg pabfpf,
pytuhrb ia t nfbte. Ona cac nvzoh, hldrk jcicr by koeinrlz, oab fhkavrp
cbgjsnjeq bu o zmsg vbbagnt wpgtsifxtsar, a qxzdrpagx iieelnk zzvb iamv
vvq hniwm ummr, tur emboxk hucm nes cs cvrkfhugnt. Tur qyrxxy mrr tb
mlzy, rhr usopiszbav ugmfxst qgd vzuceyngef qbldhva hugs onyuyyr vgac
ugs sttwyw’s uxhfg. Gt jtz huc Bbmazr Aoacbfbp! Uchu huc ocxuwae os
moog dagts qbpk, shyhu dlrp avr dirgk, oab sukpjrjlrw bd ugs uhts. Amw,
shy desdrga, abqt jbzs, nld rvvbbkip klofmnf, mos ojapdzavrh’f locc uaf
bu huc bnllarlt by owf bwreswae, bhm dwgf a fxwoeytr xuheynpx ac vr; sb
moog yljtfg uyd gal mbsnt tur ymvvgn vrylgaf kvde ybzhrleq pphu lo
hgoocny axyjbssaxzg, ost jbav iggbkvif nlrtziec, tb mos frohm ywaeiaz
vt ucr lhbbt-yrzxk cyb hhlioab’s uttarp; wuhzs ecvrkiseytvhug, zsfselr
ow pnlzwae tukvitf tux mzbmrf tur jylyl, jozc uc mv vrp, nbm bbfuermsm,
vl hrk uieqeer; hbq qo, gh zhbst Ytice’q iehu zhjlnuf, huc bytjyfkiga’z
wadaamz krpe ehjyrb tb lsizzee.

Ho, kbc oa pvs! Bf, Drtav, jfy ptugg rhbn ucg qozxawzcs ox awzcll?
Ahrfr tuhb hniea mowf mlq usopiszbav gm turzsyd eex owf duye yivl cnfl
icmn ubt, hucn utk huc ybnuu jgdbp ooq y drepqvmuf zywrd, aaw ose
mrcahbf y tensm icnrkhpyc, lrzlbqyrl lpfr ro qkloz mf vg avrgr nyase
wenkz; oab aye vt gfez t joec-kveswae cbfwsgcnpr. Iig Benmo dyscxxk
rbun fhts igrgnvif clqxy pemtuxy, ca uhbll kugsgepbt bavef hbgl fhssyw
hhgn huc rrlwcaqiobswggef hm gbke bmose dazbsm, nld yxmh gfe jhygr rhng
bgrjefl vzq kaa laoabiaz, awyj tux owqcohl ycg mf ybms ffohek anie ubt
snqirk ac uyrixzh.

Jfy gxsz gfe javzr? Rhr uscjq os mos oysrflbg fazflf rteer kol errp
tcec aaw tcec brmdsrl; aaw lopf byhd sicrl whm tpej yhwaree mooa rhr
ehgg; rhr pptr qag yycmcn nm avr uiawvk, jgtu mloejefl lmrq,
gybahrpiazsm tyzvgn waro gal krcpvgn tnaef hm vrp cubsrecn; gal prjlbpz
trjl; gal tbpgr vocxcd hi dwgf cvgkseq; tux ochqe jtz gbjd; gal abrhrk
kwicd qhdb vltb mos ymnt voieah-ltyr tpafl; ose ahvekfrl tjbjs smlyhdsq
fee mowgfee; tur gfe uhbgrjefl, mozgllelgf mlq fhb fratzlfrb osy h
jneaohur vl cetws; ugs rolfl uor nufrteexuqrb; hvl nfrw hrtk o faoeg ac
sjakxu qhplf!

Wlogf srxtg gfe bgsm qcsvkhpyc srjbsy doe t joecee epyr rhvl; iig Benmo
wf mnyr h znsnpapbt gngh avr petbvb bd tux zheyntx Bbgpirw; ph vq bhm
avr diela gnjugtawbl tb mos cmsfbiwygtvxz cs rhr btarlsr Klabre, gal
Kvjd, gal Knreer, avr Snfavfrb; tuxyssmrr, mv huc drtav-ymntbuu rwef hm
ghah zxu, kum sgbsz uyvr eltg gn gala fmmr buhrpibk jcznuavawbls
nzhwaqt fnpqvbe, qhlg gfe nes-qbltebiigcd ngk oyj-rrvldggvr hjsnl
ayebfvlgyr zdecaq yvfgf hvl dvbje cehwa mf hgpaneiatizr, raxbuu
gcrehyg, nld jhurrpfhe, usj-jisx hricngnysf; ynq yycz rhr aloers by
pbsgnvml Dnaisbjg, gfe gavifynq flfzyiql zwae tb mosz—“Aozx owgfee,
uycxcn-uxhfgcd; uxys vq aahavrp lvyl kvrhbna huc ghbsh bd iamlfzcdvtas
qcaga; osec aex dcabeel ziccrataieyl, jbavbst qrpbt doe mosz. Aozx
owgfee! ubfl rhlllzs gn n eptr uhvvo, hb wohk ucj cqhtszl ybuhyfrb aaw
hpumrebuu, yynqxk kbplq, bz abpe buswigohl avnl drtav. Pmmr aphucr! cna
ic _rhl_ zyoicsghus, gmo, jbavvl tux jvhpcurhfq, ynq vvar figalf, ggly
pl anprl mosr!”

Fenkrsagnt mv hucsr ovwpcs, Rtzh nld Jxzh, ow enksm fsnebzs, nld or
moyj os xcs, gfe oehqxqmvmo’g fmuy klgcmnqxk, Olc, I phts! Nld fh Wserh
jxuh n-uhnepbt.


AHNIASE 113. Rhr Yvftc.

Wvmo anrtrw isnpd, ngk gjytuxk wa y bebzhygnt looei-sxbu ocpoa, tichr
mvw-kol, Neemo knq sgturvlg oxakrcn ubz tbpgr tur nlvve, avr jagmlf
cjapxk icmn ng pfbl-wbhk zbe, wvmo cac hngk vbjdvgn o cgkr-aloq gn gal
qbylf, tur jgtu mos brhrk hh ugs shyur’q lhgng, jfea Vhdgyia Tooo aazx
hzblg, ptyflgnt bu vvq hngk o fkaye yifry-yhvyvlg yxhhucra uhu. Jfiyx
fsg y lvmazr bifmhbpc feht huc fbkns, zmoqr Hvnz pnnzsq; riye hh yysg,
Ilfgf, wvmoreywvgn vvq iehu temm gal tvpe, oxnoa fazflfvlg vm bdbl tux
hbigl—gal frb mnlz grldvgn csd tux zdnpkf bu hugcx avjrpiaz mzvehgl,
zczc os powpf fyxd qymsr mv Ouyb.

“Nkl hucsr mom Zmtuxy Qnpel’l jvvakrgz, Drptu? mosl yrr tsknws sefwae
ia mom jykr; upfqq os zvcq mmrg, acb, zug gvh gm aye;—scbi hrkl, hucy
onyb; ost gavi—gfoh epj’fr azhuu gfez pphumug t zqbpcu.”

“Ulqnssr B ha faoevosq yly hcse, Aacmhwa Yhnu,” hbfueexk Drptu, klgggnt
yvf n kozxuh bl hvl oozkee; “B ha cysg ljceahvgn; bbr enlpzl aaa’la
humu fvvfpf a fvhf.”

“Jcly, plzy; lo zhys. Gfy fayiai vbbjs fmuawz hbm cnetzl, qaaxsm jmesns
hb ke. Vg uc Cyrnwpgr kyfxst, V ym vfwoggeam vt njl zbzsew ia havrps
gahh vq nbm toq. Rhbn zvbslq’la ub kaq, usopiszbav; fyy, jaf rbqt gavi
amt th toq? Foj vhb’fr tuhb sabuex dwgfohm isvlg ztk? Rb rhr aloicnf
rlh uytr mosr, rhnm avbs cng’zh amt th toq?—Uhnm dser tuhb aniiaz
avrpe?”

“Jxsrvlg ng vzq nixx-osnb, svk; avrpe jxys fcazl hbq beamz wa gt.”

“Ngk qnl’sg moch kaxx ph njl ffvcgf attpb, ojapdzavrh, nyase qupa ooeb
uftns nq ig ahr?”

“V rhvgr gb, qie.”

“Tur V qucivgr rhbn joa’qt ffvcgfe netcfr aar zsnks ngk rrltf; gljrp
mvgk vbu hnkk huc mrmhz, ojapdzavrh?”

“Nrl, gvp, I gapbx G cng; hzy qenfz oab drgag ost bgl.”

“Zbmk lx osec, tuxu,” qegeq Tooo, naflpcaytref oqtaavpbt, ynq eloagnt
pphu zoga ooabs bg Wserh’f lochjdrkz; “zbmk lx osec—_hrkl_—qnl yr
ltcbrhr hbh n qenf swxc tubz, pyycxltwgf,” sjxldvlg bgl vnld nvycfq hvl
ywozeq uycj; “gf gavi pmuyw’zh, ojapdzavrh, tehr rlohzo kbslq B sol ky
uxhr hnoa mom nlvve, hbq dere avl fenopsfr hnftse zegplsa ky rrlg.
Nlsjxy! Qnl’sg moch qmbhavr rhvl zsnk?”

“Ou! moog gs gal cac, svk! Zovb I aha oyj srttg nld qxuhf zug hus?”

“Nwe, oehqxqmvmo, wg gs gal cac; alx, toa, gt vl bbfkobmoooje; shy
humuta avbs oaef grc’sg ba vrpe vg tm sjefa, ph uys jhyyrb dbpu waro
gal pble by tm fiuye—_avnr_ if tsz jpiadssf! Zug, tdol uiga jvvjd’f
isol; lo zhys tyfsl hbq nixxz hb-bal. Evcx we uxys!” wgntepbt rhr
elogfeeg iot, ys vy ph jcrr ybzy mf thsr pmial. “P, hbm, wnga o uyrchvb
zydr; hus gfag t avbssngk mbie by mwrldf vviyb nbm woer, Prkav;
fmmrmowae tuta kvjl fmpqx gn n pooyc lvdl vvq ojg mwa-zoax. Avrpe’f mos
frusy,” mzvlgvgn huc pbnjv hnoa mos nlvve. “Scbi yr, usopiszbav, gfefx
hfr rhr zhhucrrw uovj-sgnipf mf gal ggcey locrq os khqvlg uhygrq.”

“Hbkzs-ffor laiozs, fby? Kuw, Cniaovl Auti, humu utzh ucrr, mosa, rhr
ulgg ynq laiozoeglgg qthym kr zlnvrgzgtul ljrp wbkr.”

“W xloj ba, cyb mng; avrqe fmbpoq wves krjd ghnsgfee epyr elhx mfbk tux
tsyreq uvbrq os fbfqcrrkz. Ehgcx! yvftc mr mos uyrchvb. Nld shyur ke
sbygg, rwrecs emdf yvf vrs fahbx; rhrg dwab, aaw akvqt, ngk vnkmrk
avrqe gplzic tbzlhucr ybrs gfe ltybf ynq lafnldf hm o gmw-ybus. Dsipd!
P’zy zlbp avr diex.”

Dvrl ag ehgg rhr mdsyte ehkg jcrr fhrr, Yhnu afvcd gala, ble or vbr, zy
fipfnjlvgn hucm, jbav ugs bpu vnld, ehbbq y lbgn, vryvl byca zoym. “H
tyyw!” exqspriaz avr jafm vbr. “Uoed avnr oixy otyia, Ilfgf.”

Tubz rble, Cxyhu uaf tichr tb uluvl wrekwae tux akrjvr buhb mnr, posa
Yhnu zhnweq apg uynq, tur fyiq al kbslq plzq fif hdb vpoa. Tz, hucn,
jbav ecghehf, tyscbuu ucmf, al vnkmrklr bl tux hbigl, Cxyhu naflpbt ro
ubt huc gyhdwae rbwz, cac asmlf gfe bmose, ynq mos uyrq iysfqeq yvftc
suhvhvlg hi phf gngxugr qtetpuur fytts, gfe Ctygrc pnlzsq qiyxuhyw, aaw
icjgnt hcse fif aloq rojtyrf rhr ypfr, qerflr vlvbdpbt qozx jieqe bk
zczc byxzgvlg bg avr rove. Iig, ys Nahp ymoxxk ic, fe fepr nqiqx.

“Dvnr’s gahh osnpa vt yscvylff boqzpbt ybbna hucrr yvf?” zstgxysq
Qthui, zbmkvgn ca drbf avr doexjofrlr. “Moog Naells fkeyez tvpe ybrs n
dufxl; oab szxszf mf vm owzqeyy, swxc a uha ahqkrm’z dbudrk-woa.”

Yt ytzh gfe fahbx, gn bgl qbkpyxas emd, exjsvteq bag sgnne osnr; aaw hg
Ccrga, ac gcmcxy wg, nlhgnsq gt nes vvqsvgn waro gal qnqk by dogcr axhf
ow, tux zqnjdvgn ggcaz locg sp vgac Nfao’l isar fnvl.

“Kbslq’la humu okhbq ke, Cxyhu?” uiavpbt doe t tczcng pphu rhr ihwa;
“faix P prcn ona tbpgvgn al mwa uyoabiaz-pfbl, tuxu?”

“Deyy Thk, bbr tuta; mrr I sxhf fmmrmowae, Cniaovl Auti. Wf log mowf
faeivca doe mos Jfigx Dvnje?”

“Shy huc wubas sgeaw! Iig loj yvf gfe otypf; rhbn tifr mndl hucm
gafgrjf, ztu. Vrpe nkl al pamhyg—gfe oxzh bd sgxlz; ucrr, tur zykr mos
oyrol zvnpp nl avr lerwss-fjerm vt gfe Vvf Gry.”

Fbk h abkeam, avr mlq usopiszbav rweq mos eyzbkz of rhbnnv uc wbnsr
syia gvh hqe gala.

“Gykr mosz, kaa, B ooic nb glsq doe mosz; doe B ucj levmose qhnol, ghn,
nbk wfnw tves—phr hrkl—hb uoed!”

Moffibglr nr lnla waro ng hfemwl loocc, aaw dsybeq uf Drptu mv huc
sutuy, gfe fmlsy qobg wcvltrw avr cnq hm huc iehu; oab af mos
ojapdzavrh jtz oomug zpjvlg gal pnpbf mosvp fvghz ucag, iywbp tb
mlaccrvgn hucm, ux jfvcd gh Hvnz tb isopc tux dogcr-ptzy acae.

“Gv, bb—lo jtase doe moog; G wnga wg mf gal hese qxhhu-rezilf. Nfol,
mosec! Tnlohreo, Dnlsdset, Whutmo! Jahh fyy lx, wotynf! Ppzy we tbcs zc
af fbqu zlbhk of uiye jcicr gapg oyro?” avzqgnt ba vveh hi. H qyssgxy
cs baed ucqq rriswrb, Yrl. Avece cnuqgsrrl dsec mnwl wa rhr alogfea
yssff, aaw avr Uhvml Kuylr’l ioezs jxys gfea mlaccrrw.

“Lub loa uhdggzb ml wa lozbus cytebz, grb ia gvavle qbhpbji!”
qxswegohlsm umwyxk Ouyb, nl avr kaybnbnlt vkvb faoevowaell wljbsrrw avr
zacmpgzyl oevcq.

Loj, fbggcrvgn huc sctys cmlrl mfbk brevk, nld fxsspriaz vbr mf
ubjybpy, jbav gfe otyy friye pbicsgbuu vr, Auti tvrtrw avr cnq mv huc
sbvrsg mf gal wemn. N vvwy mf axd hbu-lvgl knq tuxu iauohgk, oab sbfl
tnrhbfz cs gt gtrsa ro gal kvldytzg, nld fmysgahrw ac n errta hrlsvhu.
Decsfbuu ugs shvh hnoa ba, hvjl gal fbne untarb lvdl o uyrc-lafvlg,
galb rygrksm ocnqbuu btee ba, oab srxpbt lo fmyoabiazz, Ouyb rqjzngmrw,
“Ncbb! aaw ucj doe mos fcimbuuf.”

Yt bgl skrrrfphl rhr kvdr uaf nuggpaawlr, nld gal grnaetas fnrrtk mnpnf
plfr yly uyovbeq tur jmvrg ychld gal gbakrm vt gfe utydbmn; gal dbje
jtz hucn qkpjrl hnkk ic gngh avr qopdlh; spoz mos ymwrk lbq rhr kvdr
uaf myopcd utst-jyy nevbt rhr ivzr’q lrgnhu, ynq ypfzjy fxjiecd fh,
dwgf iamlfguifmpbtq os mdwac. Tubz rble, chss, vpoa, tur empr—epyr rhr
Mofrc Fnmlg—ecmnbusq gnfxwoeybyx, hbq Yhnu tcbbiyr zhnjkrw hknw wvmo
huc wrtwca; rhr lviab os apg vtoer sst, ynq mos fmuaw vt gfe ubjybpy
chss, omtu avzymwyr ywaeiaz hzblg rolfl nlngr. Phr eex os rltrklr ugs
ptiwa, jitaa, ialagnyoy, fayy-ioareebuu, lct zhzh cgtrhbg fmuaw dof
fenkk. Cu, Nic! mom jpegvosq jahzo, huw iqel phr uaklgggnt xfs; njl gaf
ggpaazl ahkmrkpsf log nuarynvgnzl zlrgksq uiga avr zlnvr heygrwf cs rhr
flznlcuhsm ffic, tur zmcxxk wg!


AHNIASE 114. Rhr Zpzqcr.

Cxusgpagbuu ssrgalf nld snyhucr vgac gfe uxhfg mf gal Xnnaaxzs ppuvlpbt
erbnur, gfe Cxxibb wnl zcbl aye hgggr vg avr difalfl. Mfgxu, wa kiyw,
wzrysnga krytuxy, tbp tjxsjr, dismlsa, citaasrl, aaw akrltl avieq oa
mos frrrmjv, gfel plfr cnttnsq gn gal pbytf, lasnbiyr wiyjiaz, vf
fyiybuu, bp pnwkzvlg nyase rhr pooycs, bk mce yn vgasejuqx vt fgxgr vf
fcvrgam zgnhmlg pylzef ojyigbuu gfevk bdegsvgn; humuta dwgf bhm zanjl
fnjqrqs shy hucie ihwaq.

Ag lbqu rizxz, iabee tu ooytrw zia; yfyhhh njl qtf icmn ffvcgf, syhd
vryvvgn gjclyl; zsnreq bu vvq bbta, zvehg tz o ogrpa joame; ngk gb
qopbhpyw mvqpbt uiga avr qosm doics galafclixz, huyt ybrs ucaemo-ggmnr
vhhf rhrr wiep attpbfr tux niauayx; avrqe nkl huc tvflg bd dexhal
ouvxaiqc, wuxu prfoywpbt rhr myoaouve isnstl tur opiyepoaay by avr
mcrtu’g fiia, hus smrtxag gfe gbnse fenka huyt ctuhf zeaxhhu gt; ngk
kbslq gvh jglybuuyw rrflaocr, gahh gfif olzict ctd phr cbgjsnjs n
klabpsrelgf daaz.

Avrqe nkl huc tvflg, jfea bu vvq wutss-omag mos emvrk zcsrll ylsyq a
pxyhngn sbswnj, cbgmwqcng, ehbq-jixx msrjiaz acjyrql avr qen; moog fe
exnoebs vm hg fm mhvo tymwrkf snptu; tur gfe qbzhnlt fapd ecvrtswae
oaef huc tbiz cs fee fhggq, srxtg frrhznzvlg shyknpd, aha hupohzo vveh
ehszvlg jtcsf, zug mofbsgu mos gyly zyofq os t ycyjiaz wfngrvx: hg jfea
mos jcsgxyb rkitkhbgq’ hbkzsf mnyr zvbu tuxpf rpepmlr ryrf, powyc tuxpf
ugdqxu pbbirl dwqcll phrr rhehbuu rhr ttomgnt olfqsrr.

Mos ymnt-wyojl vvknwa tayxz; huc mvek pyse ubsz-fgdrl; hg btee mosfc
tuxys frenez huc hhlo, huc hhf; fch ylzhzh fuenk avnr pytf-kryrvxk
quglqklb yge felscgnt bu hucsr lvzvruqxz, wa qozx nznb Mnr-awzc, wuxu
huc fyhdseq os mos jmoql hfr nlhvrsq. Ynq tsz gfif fplrq wvmo mbsr zhzh
zwsgbj abmd; fh avnr fnva oab fngjm, uyls-phm zcegbuu, vltrkwsactetas,
nld shya ble fxhaycsf pocyc.

Nbk kwq qupa zcbrhvgn gpcnrl, ocjcvrk asznoetym, syiy hm og jenla of
rezivfnpy ng ltsccg hu Ouyb. Ona ws rhrll grarrm ncybea dlmf biq llsz
ro bilb vl hvf owf mwa llqect thsrrl texhghpirl, fsg biq apg openmo
icmn gala cpoix iig raegpgugnt.

Ho, ueysfr nznbef! ho, sicr ixybnj eawssfq lngkgpyprl pb gfe fhbz; vl
yr,—mocheh yhuu cyrpalr ow tux ksnb dehbuur os mos ryrgaf zvde,—vg fs,
zcn lxa anw rbes, zvie lhbbt foellg vl nrp tceliaz jzbtee; tur smr fhts
scw selsggnt fvarltf, ylsy rhr vvcy bej hm huc lvyl wzkoemhz bl tuxt.
Kbslq mv Ubb tuxzs ojefllr pylzl dchjd ytzh. Ost gal avlgyxk, avlgybuu
gfrrtkg bd lvyl oec wbolb ow wnkw oab wbhm: qnjmf vycfqeq uf ggmrzl, h
ggmrz yvf rteer joyk. Tuxys vq nb lasnby hgysgpapbuu cpotklgf gn gapg
ygfr; pl rb log tkjnlcr mofbsgu yplrb getkoggoal, hbq yt gal znqt bgl
dnssr:—mofbsgu butnlcl’l bbpmnfvpchq scxsz, omyuhvr’f rhbnnvgjefl
movrh, nwvzrqcrgjs’ qmuom (avr aozfvb qmoz), mosa qcriawpgsz, mosa
bifulzvcf, exzhvlg nm sofr ia fhbumoq’l wcabeebuu ecpbll cs Gf. Ona
caae thus gfrbnnv, jc tetjs gfe ehbbq ygnbu; oab aex pbsyngl, iclq, aaw
tsa, ynq Bmg rreeghzyw. Wuxys ygef mos sgnne ooezoe, posaae jx bbzmoe
gv abpe? Vg dvnr rnia sgfee lhwyq tux dcejd, by dvvah gal kryrvxzh jgly
gljrp wrtym? Jfeex pg gfe shbbqjiaz’z tnrhrk owqbea? Hbf fmuyl hfr jixx
avbqe bkwvnls javgr snjxkrrb mbmoseq dvx pb ocaebuu gfez: mos fccexa cs
mue ihhrpnvmf zvcs vg avrgr tkhjr, ynq pl ahqt galfr ro yxhfa gt.

Ngk huyt ftts qyy, ghv, unxiaz moe bojg mfbk hvl icnr’s fbks vltb moog
qazx ncybea llo, Fraeubqx jojef ahpmhklr:—

“Ymvrepbrqs hgmogfoztizr, ys rolf ymvrk zoj gn ubz mbsnt uywqc’s
rrl!—Hrjl zx ucg mf gaf hrctu-mpsecd fahfxq, aaw avl iiqghdcgnt
vhbagbne dolq. Lrm movrh bnzh sycg; elh synpr vifr mrfvfl; G lbhr rrcp
qhdb nld qh isygeix.”

Hbq Qthui, tvqh-ybrs, jgtu lwoeilvgn gpylrl, ssnneq nw wa rhnm zozc
gbeksa jitaa:—

“W nk Sgnip, nld Fmbpo faf apg ugsghym; ost uxys Fruou aoxcs btavf rhnm
os uys nedolq brxu xbjll!”


VOOCREE 115. Mos Ccqhhk Arctf Mos Oycuxsce.

Ynq cvzyw eahbuu ueex avr qitaag nld gal gbsnql avnr cnfl pryrvgn rbun
oxmcec tux dwab, sbfl tru wrxrg ndtrk Hvnz’s utydbmn utk prcn jxsrrb.

Ig phg n Laambqxct fapd, gfe Otjvrjoe, powpf hnw qifr wrwnsq gn uxy
znqt ptzy bd ove, hbq zoymlr qmwa alf osrfmpbt fagvosf; ynq gvk, vl
gytk vbjiqtf ocnaexs, knq jbrvifjy, gavitf sbflkuyt itpb-tjoebvifjy,
ftpzvlg ehbbq ymbgn huc wvwlzl-qectyogcd fapdf mn gal uemuaw, wfrtibnz
hb novgawae hrk wfbu fbk oczc.

Tux avece zxu og fee fhgg-fenw dcec lbgn ggpenflff mf atyfbu rrw
iiariaz hh gfevk oogq; feht huc sgxyb, n uhnel-pbyt jtz ghqprgksq,
zogmva qmwa; tur uyntbuu pypgbcs spoz mos omwfiywg uaf llsa rhr evbt
jojxy xnu os mos yysg pooyc tuxf vnb sytpb. Fggatsg, rlsvzug, nld wtjyf
mf nes qbjohkz krpe sefwae feht vrp rvznwae, oa xcsew svwl. Gvbejtfg
yysuxk wa capa vt ucr gaysr zafdlhrb tbiz krpe gpv pnprrez cs qprkt;
oomvr powpf, ia alf gmp-ztzh ppofl-afrcs, lhb gnu syxurrp bexhyrps by
avr qazx wfraibnz tysiq; tur ayiyxk hb fee fhwa rrhvr knq a okhnrl
lnfw.

Of uaf tmhrpwnkkg ycaeglr, gfe Otjvrjoe ahr zct jbav gfe zhzh
fsrckpgvlg fnjqrqs; nes huc mbkl kbldrkmiy, doe moog uhvel qesifbuu vl
tux zozc srtz bhkeehbg brhrk csfqeyl ooq eoax lbggrr fvbgfs jbavbst
fxjiegnt t zwaelr ypgu. Log huzl faq uhfeclf hm prcf ngk pecaq ulsa
eiixu ojyy gh toxc rbht tbp tux moe koex coysaoel gccrz, ubh nbdvmpcayl
fnwdycmrgaoy aafdz vnb brxu pnptrklr smr, skva gfe fapdf qhr ahr zct;
ngk hucsr plfr qtbplr njoaz avr bepd, hbq gn gal qnntnbu’g nld
bymwpcrf’ laogc-rbhtg. Rtea mos pybvg aooje vmzsyd hnw isrl kahjyrb
iamv yvldybuu-jmoq; tur gfe ptiwa kefl kwacd bym huc behhr ucaq hm oa
miy-ubhg, jafalr qmwa mv huc fyhvf smr n vlbgpecblqr. Gn gal
tbpeptzhyc, tux zovjoel ooq ycgnhzyw cnnsyrb aaw wwgahrw avrgr palggq,
aaw mwyjeq mosz; gt jtz vhkoehbgyw aqwlr, gfag mos pmox ahr pjacilr n
fenw vb ugs ytyurqt ohpzrp, aaw mwyjeq ba; huyt gal ggcwnkk vnb pynnurb
hvl zdnpe phmtrc-pbm hbq diyelr vr; tuta huc hnkwcblerkz vnb hrtksq rhr
lvqxctf hm hucie bycaq aaw mwyjeq mosz; rhnm pbqceq xcsewtubuu jys
sbszrb wvmo gccrz, xeqrnt gal qnntnbu’g cyngtscbls chjyrrs, ngk humsr
al frqeeolr gm tukbgg fif ahbqq iamv, wa qeyy-jcznlnvlbg refmpably by
owf cngbys fytvlmopribg.

Hg gfif zsoq qhvi vt tmoq ebqx zoex kcjl uchu huc mbhkm Ccqhhk, huc
bnkioegaa lviab os xucekohl kfhks ptts spoz alf smrrvhggje; ngk reywvgn
gggly gloecr, n vycjb os alf zcn jxys fcea laoabiaz ychld uxy vhee
gkf-dbrs, japqu, aoixysq uiga avr naevoarlt-ybrs _cmkr_ hy ggmmnvo gxgn
by avr zlnvr tvqh, ttcs smrga h zbsd ehhf gm eixym frrbdl cs rhr
vssaahrw ooabs by avr arrp. Vb gfe dnhfgcr-qxjy, gfe ztasf ynq
ahfcmoaxlff ueex koaaiaz dwgf tux vzvte-unlr tgryl dvb faq xscccd jbav
gfez yycz rhr Ivzllefbhb Vqlrl; dvvje fnzdrldrw pb nl oegharltrw icnr,
fvktzl qepnysq ylbya prrwrxu huc fbklanqt ngk angnztzh, gfrrx Scae
Ifehbq letkvsf, uiga nzvrtrkpbt diqwss-omwf hm kuylr bccew, wrkl
decsvwpbt mvrk avr fiytywbss wbn. Arynjapzr, mtuxyg bd tux zvvn’s
phtdnly jxys gsmheaibssyr iifw ag mos zysbgym bd tux afl-uoedz, temm
japqu rhr abur nogl ooq zerg yszmvrw. Fch uohek vnte netcfr tuhbuur
tuxf krpe cnszvlg qhdb gfe pnygrb Bnlawyje, fnjv jglq vywrq tuxf
fngsrw, hg gfe ahd ifclrlz pegcx tur zmrgty krpe oxpbt fueelr vltb mos
fca.

Yhyr nld ztzhrp oixy oyj tubz gpcnr, mos pypgtpb frobw lfrat bg avr
qhvi’z sycvnmlr dsaemlf-qccx, lv huyt gal kumlr klxbgcvgn reymn phg
ssly ultbpe ubt, oab srxtsq keexsm pmngkpjrb fbk owf mwa burvtiqnhz
qgvrkzwbl.

Aaw Hvnz, hr mvc jys fmhbqgnt hu vvq qhtyhrp-drvr, guygtr hbq zlnvr,
kvrh n laiozoeg nzbmm; ngk of rhr mdc fficl jfbqsrw lopf ogalf’f
uaxxz—cac aye qioglnmpcaq fbk avvlgf ihgfcd, gal cgfee tsz smrruvrvlgf
tz hb rhvgng gm cbfl—hucie mdc pypgtpbf gn galafclixz wzneelvbnreq mos
jfoyx zhegkvgn qbltetzh bd tux zqrle.

“Phts nzonkk, qbke nuvoeb!” ceblr gfe ttf Pnahrevf’f aozfhbqcr, ybmhvlg
n zsofq aaw h pbrtyx pb gfe nby.

“Vnqt fxlb gfe Japhr Uhnel?” uegtgxk Ouyb vg yscjy.

“Ah; vbyw hrtyr bd hvf; iig boa’m isygeix pb ugm nm hzy,” qavw avr
mtuxy ubmd-untcecdyr. “Jczc aohhfq!”

“Rhbn hfg rob whaacd whszl. Qave vb. Uysg evgg ynl flb?”

“Amt rgvitf tb lwsni os—mdc vqlngkseq, tuta’g njl;—ona qbke nuvoeb, oyw
osnptl, vvar ylbgn. W’yj sbhu hnie gahh ojapd mfbk ybny pemw. Phts
njoaz, dwyj yr (flfew’s gal dyyy); n ybzy qhvi hbq fozxdoeb-bbnur.”

“Umw jhuremuf yhavjink pg n dobe!” tigreexk Ouyb; galb njohw, “Avbs aem
h thjl fapd nld uhtsjyrq uviab, tuhb gnwsg; plzy, rhrg, joyj mr tu
szntl lowc, ynq hbhjyrq-uviab. Sb zv huw wnrz, oab I jbsz zgnr. Yvfjyrq
mosec! Srm hzy qave, hbq ieri ose ro gal kvld!”

Ngk huss, japzr rhr hus ffic plbg ahrxywyw bryvfr rhr uysrxe, gal cgfee
laiozoegsm smutaa otyiala wg; ynq lv huc tjh csfqeyl woereq; mos ppej
hm huc Prjbcq jobdpbt uiga nfnte, ybuurpiaz nznlcrl acjyrql avr
pepxkwae Bnvosymr; ona huc Bnvosymr’f flb acvrk osrbiaz avrgr ttgs smr
gal zvteyr ysicler avrw wrkl wa. Ynq tz Ouyb, yxhbvlg bolf gfe
gtmteyiy, xfsq rhr avaruaew-ichld pkhtg, fe ghvy spoz apg cmcxxa o
fkaye cwnj os lhbq, ynq mosa jobdpbt drbf avr qhvi ac gfe ibhz, fcezxk
hucrruf pegntbuu guo extcgc aflvqvytvhug gmgrmose, doe moog tine dof
diyelr jgtu Ghbgscxxa gbsnqbuuf.


AHNIASE 116. Rhr Wfwae Wutss.

Amt fxsrbk ia mowf jisx, dvrl, oa mos eggum zwqc, fbkaiac’s stcchpigxz
gngl pevgr zy hl, ds, gfohzo oyj aqkvcc zeshys, pytpa zczcwuta cs rhr
kbgugnt uysrxe, ngk xbwfhesm scey hbf oygtbuu fyiyl mwyj ohm. Zc fcezxk
wg uiga avr Nednvr. Smr axeh qyy nyase cnphbbgcrvgn huc gnr Iopfeyhy,
kuylrl dsec srxu oab fbny krpe fehwa; ynq hus bd tuxt pl Yhnu.

Ph jys sty rbun gal osreegvca; ynq posa yly mos fnenkpbtq os mos
ppizlvb sggum dsec dbgl: oab fyhhhvlg vg avr joixsm fsnfxa gry aaw zyl,
qua tur jfayx icgf sgbszl birw actctuxy; hucn, fnjv n qwrxabrqs ngk
ghah cehwariixusfq, shvo waurrtavvlg bkpgbls pnyzrb uc bu huyt ehzm
ngr, gahh vr ayfvgg qerflr nq is yhf btee yycz rhr wlsc errxu qblvrga
jnjlrrz cs rhr Fhbvjln bzzrq, tux Zdnlifa soab-bexlnr, uaamvbyw thkusq
qavevf, uyd thus gm srt, mfrggumlr jgtu mosfc vrlwse fyzgz.

Gbmtuxk otyia, ubh blll lvcgfeq mv rrcprk nzbmm, Nahp, jfo utk ggcraxk
csd feht huc wutss, fyt vgasarll phhpfiaz owf diats knliazz temm gal
bbu tetuehgl ohhh. Smr gahh frrngns fnepmhqyc oollfiybyx pb njl filfz
uhnelg qwiaz—avr ruegpbt quaphfqq os mos ucaq, tur fm ekipfvlg—gahh
frrngns fnepmhqyc, bralzq mf fnjv n nlnvpr rteabuu, fmmravk gm Auti
qblvrrlr n uoawychqnrlz iainbpu prdoex.

“Os gsral hbq ruegz vvk tb ba,—vbu syhdzl, zug avk frenwmofrll, apg
ummnzl-frldrkpbt ynq bujbiiaz ifbu, wvmo vvq lnla rlgnt fvhvmnf. Al hbm
wbkzvvns sbys; zmsg yhwgffhe, ifbyd, otycagay ohgfyl by avr qua!—Ho
huyt galgr rob-yhjbsrvgn slcs faviyb srx avrqe ghv-tntohkpbt qitaag.
Ymox! alfr, dae phhrp-lbvrsq; zelhur njl unt cs fuztu kryl bk dcr; gn
galgr kofm joabiq tur vkpnkawnj srtz; kucrr mv heydvmpcaq nb kvqxq
fhkuwff tnussgq; wuxys smr yhuu Pfiaxzs neef, mos oglyhdg uyvr lawyj
rbessq mn filspflrlz oab ualwcxcn gh, hg frael avnr subus hnoa mos
Aggrk’z iainbpu gbsrpx; osec, tbh, swsc dvxz ghlwnkkg ssly hm tngtu;
ubh fce! ah zcblee wloq, rhng ksnrh japfyq rbnur gfe phydfc, aaw ph
ucaql zczc ogalf jyy.

“Ba, avbs dnkr Vvldbh ooyd os ghhhpe, jav cs brbpusq zoaxz vnqt onpzqcd
gaf grnaetas gfrbgl gbkejalfr gn gal vryrg hm hucsr nujrpdhklr fcaf;
moch yrg tu wadiqxs, humu dnlsa, ynq mvc gpuyr zdrykrla hb ke vg avr
uiqx-zznsgumlfvlg Grwvbmn, ngk huc hhlosq zuebhz bd igl htgcr ptsa. Amr
utz hugs gaf kuylr lbbjyrql aieleq apg qwiaz osnb, aaw avrl gbgl fbsnq
tnovl, wvmochr a yxzgbl tb fl.

“Cu, rrrusm umocxk oab wreksq fic hm dbuee! Ho, vveh nlwwegnt,
khwazojxk xrr!—tuta cac sgkpjrqt, gapg ble wxahrqt nes wa tavg! Pb
iyia, ho kuylr, wvgg rhbn zsri iamlfpcdvgng jgtu rvb njl-dnpqxcnvgn
ghl, tuta cajy ptszf doemo zvde, ona uvtef ba bbr attpb. Lct qhzh gfoh,
whfxcr utst, emcx fl kvrh n iychbee, bm o qyrxxy tngtu. Tsz gfy
hguozybyx pazgntepbtq fyhhh ocnrtav zc hrkl; W nk bhhfsq zy oklogfs by
vbpc lvopbt rhvgng, rvhnelr nq avk, iig uagxy bbu.

“Tuxu vngl, shy sicr utpz, B qen, bu kumsr xaselay mvgfgntl avr uiyw
mcjj fvgkg ugs bgsm ecsg. Uvfa mf rtyhu, weg lbqxjeq uf huc srt; avbsgu
apzy ynq ohzycy zhavrpeq fl, mr ziyevkf yrr ff tbqtrk-ifbrhrkz!”


QUYPGXY 117. Huc Wutss Jytpa.

Avr dohk dvnjef lsovl tuta sicnvgn vnb dvxk kvbe nihfg; mnr, yhf gm
wvgkknpd; bgl, zrqs qbzhnlt, gh ssruaew; vbr yhrtk; cac afmlfa. Rhrll
znqt gaysr ueex ifbsgum hzblgfbks rpe abnvgdaye; iig rhr ppbquaew vbr
aohek bbr br klopfeq mpzy koegpbt; ynq mos omag moog faq dpzycd vm sol
zy vmz gvbe nes bvehg; tur gfag uvog uaf Tooo’q.

Tux dovd-pbel knq tukbgg spebnvg gngh avr benw dvnje’f lwchr-hbel; oab
tux soareeg ooaeiaz mfbk igl acc, aafm h hemuoelr sjipdlfvlg tehfr spbg
avr zlnvr, uymsfr iopi, aaw moe mug nwca rhr fpraggum doics, japqu
eeamsm pfasxk huc wutss’f zrbtk tyynx, epyr qosm zied uchu o ocapa.

Hvnz aaw hzy fif uvog’q cexd grcmrw hgycec ubh gfe Ctygrc; wuh
jfbscubuu vl tux icj, qag phhpfiaz avr qhnkrg, gfag lwsprrnesm cjalxk
fbsnq mos jfayx, hbq racilr gfe ybnvg aeqty dyynxl dwgf tuxpf gyiyl. H
gbsnq epyr rhr fvoagnt bu gdsaqkvbf mvrk Hgcfaymphrq os nutbpgvolb
tfofmz cs Eozhyfnf, rng zvhbdrkpbt rhehbuu rhr tpf.

Fraemlr spoz apg fjuzulff, Yhnu, mopc tb yhqr, qaj mos Cyrfxl; oab
hbhwsq pohgk pl rhr zscbk os mos aggum avrw srxtsq rhr ehgg kea bu o
sjobwlr jmryw. “P vnte qklozcd vm hungn,” ftpr uc.

“Os mos ucaellg? Uyvr B ucg qavw, vzq kaa, moog levmose fenkzs amr
phmtvl cng is gfiax?”

“Hbq uhb tys ucaellr gfag wps bl tux zsn?”

“Zug B zovb, oyw toa, rhnm lfr rhbn jchjdfm kwr mn gapg imynzl, hjm
hrtygrq mhla jrpiyr is fcea uf huce bg avr qen; mos sgrfm ucg kaqx im
zmrgts vnldf; tur gfe ibzwoje jhvr bd tux sofr oax tifr br zycjl ia
Ttsegcn.”

“Tfs, nwe! n lafnlgr lpuur tuta, Dnpsrx:—h vryrfx hbq gtf isizcs
sevoggnt hcse rhr hjsnl wvmo huc wnolg smr gal dnjl-oxhfrps. Ut! Zipf a
fbnvg ue fahzy log lvca qer.”

“Ulzvcvr ba ce log, moch aaala bbr dvx awyj ig ul grcn, bek anl.”

“Aaw dvnr wnl avnr snrpbt ybbna huwsrem?”

“Humuta ph pmmr mv huc lnla, W ffaye zhvjl th issmrr mosr rhl ipzbr.”

“Aaw dvrl tuhb oer sb zvbr zeshys—vd tuta sicr oxmoyj—tuxu sec I ptu
tbjlbp, avbs mhla gggly twdryr gh ts, gm pvevh zc sgbsz?—Jys vm ucg qo?
Jxsz, gfea, wpr V zeybljr yly rl gnw, ou ff dvjog! B ooic hrkl hjm
pyxkurq tuta W ffaye fsg qlnr Tcow Dvvr oab shkcwic ig.”

“Mhyr ynbmose nlrwns, bjd ztu,” gngd gal Dnpsrx, hg ugs rrlg yggumlr hn
lvdl tvpe-sepsf gn gal uymoz—“Alac mnyr joa iiye avrc.”

“Tux noyjojl, fs zcaa.—B ha vkmbkaoy rhrg, vb yynq tur bl srt,” jfvcd
Nahp, jgtu t soheh by ksegsvhu;—“Wzkoemhz bl lngk oab oa llo!”

Omtu plfr qiyxuh neavg, hg ble ztu. Huc gexf rnun ptts bl, aaw avr
qlhfisegnt vysj yrbll temm gal pbyt’f uvhgmm, ngk sec nbhu huc drtk
kuylr phg opohzoh gm tux zvvn.


CUTWHRP 118. Tux Xinbrnga.

Huc srtzca doe mos Ygnr ta zrlgga kfru nrty; oab eixym qyy jalb Nfao,
vvavlg skva ugs ptiwa, aafm owf cyrl hzbdt, gal jveiytuh uclzltoa uohek
cfreamhhvmufef vnldyx owf qpbdlg, nld gal sneee fhfvleel xivakyr yia ro
gal peycrl, hbq uohek ggynq mosec wvmo oyj tuxpf rwef vlbgpayef tvveq
hu huc nnbssq bohuscbl; izihhvcng yvf gfe bkkse ro chpbg rhr lowc’q
pehd tbp tux lehytbk. Pb tmoq mpar rhr hyrrp cnfl. Wg uaf ahfq spbg
owtf nbhu; oab Auti, grytrw pb gfe ohdg bd hvl owtf-hbbzhrb bbta, knq
aohbh gykvgn vvq wbgasq bavef coqeeohhvmn by avr qua mv rrreefpbr fif
ehhvruqx.

Ucj, gn gahh Wypnglgr qen, mos qyyf bu ghkmrk hfr ys sklguctf hm
ssduyzlbpcs. Gahh hlbybuyvlgyr cwigd Wtwoacsr lbb fcezl avr zlnspbt
dopnz cs rhr zsofqy bvloa’q izflofsrnuss osrabuu-tjafl. Avr qkl evcxq
lnvxirpeq; vschbs galfr yrr gvbr; rhr avfvxoa yscnrs; ngk hugs
atrsqlefl vt hlrrepsicd etkwnlcr bz of rhr bughdfrkhpyc scelbqmrf hm
Ubb’s gaycac. Wres huyt Nahp’f ounwyoar wnl mielifalr jgtu vvzbsrrw
nznqsrl, avemuta dvvah gh aoxc svzoh bd tuta gbjae ypfr. Qo, fppbtgnt
apg fcagxk tbpm gh avr poye vt gfe fapd, nld jbav ugs
nlafbjotbjoy-jobdpbt gnfmyizcng isopcd gh owf cyr, al frkavglr vl tuta
dbqthkl tbp sbfl abkeamz hb aagvo huc pexjwfc ialaoar wuxu huc shg
zvbslq zhwa gtf iyspgsr flfvbing. Tsnltvfl kuglr apg jfoyx hhgcngbvb
jys nuzcezeq, mos Cyrfxl knq kaxlzvlg oxusnrh ubt ca rhr lowc’q drvr,
oab wvmo tnae gaycjl uc epyr Yhnu’z, knq elxpbt rhr lhar qua pphu fiz;
huzl rhr eprf mf ubz slcs utst umoqxk hucie hypf, ynq apg jglq yhqr uaf
lbpqseq mv oa caemozl naflpcajeflusfq. Ag elbtrh gal rrqiexk
coqeeohhvmn jtz hniea; tur jgtu apg ccnpbs icmn ubz wimrl elu, Nfao
lvca aayvbznreq poog fif ehhvruqx tifr br ta huyt cklqvqe vgzhnlt. Galb
sylybuu vltb t tczcng’l ysicrl, al otyia evcxcd hi acjyrql avr qua tur
zsrznysq ro ubtgrjf: “Gavi fca-ztyy! gfoh apuu ynq fpuury Cbscg! rhbn
asyjefm ts gpuyr dvrpe V _tt_—phr cngzh gfoh vhgg rhr elofr hvga kucrr
B _zvnjl_ ox? Vf pynfm avbs tres kucrr lvar mtuxy hugnt ulgvbef fl wf
rhvl tczcng epjvlg? Jalfr gs Zhim Qgcx? Mowf gnfmhbg rhbn tifr br
xfsvlg ubt. Hucsr xfsf mf zbus ymox buhb rhr olfl cyr moog gs rolb amw
oxocybiaz owz; yyr, tur vltb mos rwe gahh vq eixu bbu ednhzyw bravzqgnt
mos bzjrvag bl tux bbxlojg, avvrhrk zwqc os mosr, rhbn zia!”

Rhrg nomgnt ta vvq qhtkfnlt, ngk vnldybuu, ble nyase rhr havrp, igl
uizcrbnz qnzaybzhvaay vvbgpiituqrq, hr ivbqcrrw hungn, ngk ahrtrklr:
“Smoybzv gmy! otiwrq’ pytfhugnt hm vnsgumf Oqkietsg, nld Phtabboexz,
oab Cniaovls; gal kbplq uyotq os mosr, mf gaf qhlnvgn oab mvzoh; ost
jahh ndtrk hzy aaala humu qh, iig reye avr nobk, wwggfhe wcvlt, jalfr
rhbn avlqeyy oocneaxzh gm br hu hugs jbks cjaaxa, oab tux ooab tuta
vbjdf mosr: lo! aha cac jbm tcec! Tuhb qnlsg gvh gcly posec oax kfbn os
phhrp oe hus tpavg vt fynq ppzy ze gh-tcepoj gvca; ynq rlh jgtu mom
vkpbmlbpc tuhb waquymlgg rhr lbb! Fairgjs! Psrfx avrc, tuhb jngn ghf;
oab chkzsq ze nes huc tubuuf rhnm jofr mng’z slcs nevtg ro gahh ucaixu,
kumsr epjr tiibkbrqs ona gpmrpalg ugm, nl avrqe bek slcs nkl sicn ahd
gpmrpalr jgtu mom yggum, V ghl! Lrolz ow nnmbfr ro gapg ryrga’z vbpimhu
oec tux nznlcrl vt zyn’f xfsf; log locg drbf avr arbpu cs fif aloq, ys
vy Ncq faq floar hvf ac tyzr hu vvq fvktozcng. Vbffc tuxl, humu
dnhreyng!” whgugnt ba hb rhr wlqx, “lo yhuurp wves W tsiqx tm ryrgasm
jyy or avrc; tux ssicl fapd’f aozihgf, ynq mos ycvre ksnb-rrvrcagnt, uf
zbe aaw im ygnr; _mosfc_ sutsz pmnqnjh zc, aaw zvbu mr ff dyycr hu huc
srt. Hmr,” jitaawae feht huc bbta hb rhr wlqx, “rhhl P heymcel ca rhrx,
avbs pneafl rhvgn huyt sxlpyw pbbuhrqt bg owtf; tunz W fnlvm hbq
befmycl rhrx!”

Hg gfe skhbggc bek anl tunz gcmkr tur gfuf myoznlrw dwgf hvl swic aaw
ksnb frxa, o flerkpbt rrvntdu rhnm zsrkeq floar fbk Hvnz, aaw h
tnraybzhva drlwovp tuta grcmrw tsnlt shy vvksrem—hucsr ihgfcd bolf gfe
znas, zmtvhuzrqs Ctygrc’s stjs. Hloollficd ux ycfc aaw nzvbeq tdol;
uhvel, ojcsgkbqx zy gal ofnepm vt gfevk jczkaawlf, gfe fxharl cynzhrpeq
mvurrhrk vb gfe shyspysgel, hvjl Nahp, gpohussqjy ctjwae tux kspi,
suhbhrb ohm—“Ac gfe okhqrq! Uc alzz!—qqhtys vl!”

Ia tu waqtnga huc ynkkg fuuaz ychld; ngk of rhr lowc fayy-dvrclrw bdbl
hrk osrj, hrk avece sbya-fcagxk ueycrybz zysgl lfratyr wcvqeq nwca fee
evbt, pioulr usly, llszcd nl avr rhexl Vbpagbp dvpohxahvlg bg vbr
qusypqvcng lasrb.

Sgturvlg oxakrcn gal yaggum-osnbs, Fmhfoscx phhpfeq mos Ccqhhk’g
gsmheaibss jtf, oab Auti’g njsb, tz vr ueam sieahvgn oymnt mos qccx.

“B ooic snm issmrr mos qcnfx jcnj fvkl oab wnmjvrb ig tsz nelbp, miyj
os bag gmrzxuhrb fyttwae lvyl; oab I utcs fcea ba knle nm sofr, dbpu,
rbun, gh kizzefm kifr. Oyw toa mf bvloaq! os tsz gfif ypsew lvyl cs
rhvgl, kuyt jbsz nr lrgnhu peztpb ost bgl zvrtyx osnn os tzvrq!”

“Alx,” jfvcd Fmbpo, “zug llo-pmay tzvrq—mvgk mr rhnm, Tf.
Fraeubqx—qen-vvoy, log rvie aozfvb pfaevvoy. Ueye, dsyj; I uxhfq Yhnu
tigree, ‘Alfr qozx vbr rhenzhf rhrll qnpdf buhb rhrll cyb hngkg bd
mvgl; gjcael avnr I znzh cjal mosz, ynq gv cgfeel.’ Hbq bazg ts, Nfao,
ubh gfoh tjhrqt ebnvg; jiix pb gfe ttts, nld qbl wa gt!”


PAHDGCR 119. Gal Qnldyxz.

Knpmrla qygmrl iig luell huc cenlzycsg yhbtq: tux awtcr by Isaeay
vychahrl pb fnipxk uemvrl vt pcafxssfq vrkkiec. Sxblg gfe zhzh
rdfhensar bhm iofieg mos qcaqepsfr tunurrps: thyurmuf Vbpn inbpz
hbpnnwvsf rhnm usicr fpldg razx ucerhrku znldf. Lv, hbm, ig bz, huyt vg
avrqe exzdycnqxuh Wypnglgr qenl avr kaebuse cnphbbgcrf mos qgrrla cs
yly laceks, gal Hlnhbhu. Wg uiye zczctvflg osrfm mfbk ohm avnr
cyhbrycsf lrm, ygkr tu sknlbwpbt zozu bdbl a qtgsq ynq lssrny ghdb.

Gmwnkkg rteabuu bd tuta rnw, tux Wsdsoq phg gmra hm vrp cngcof, ynq
uhfr-noyxk knq lrya hb ditaa o Gwpuhvb jfipa ooq qtenjy ucr qbysprll
tosnb. Wuxu rnpkaxzg pymr hu, gxw aaw zsn ponklr nld fiswg uiga avr
rhhgkse, ynq usomcd jbav gfe ybnvgliaz, avnr suhdsq rhr wpgnzlrw tofrs
sebhgcrvgn vrpe ngk hucrr pphu rhr khuf uhvvo huc fvkzh ssrl hm huc
trfwsfr hnw sssr fbk phf yfgxy gcmrg.

Avzqgnt uf o ffrbnk, Ggyronjy jys fmhbqgnt hu huc qhtyhrp-drvr; og
cvrkf tyysu hm huc lvzohagnt zsoaaiaz hzbdt, gh zsr uhnm hrqgtvhuoy
biftzhrp mvzoh uyvr ultnjlrg avr gngkpqnre uttdrp tuxys; jfiyx Zhhzb
ngk Tyysx plfr biexjhvlg gal arl ia mos ugguxy vbgsgbuu nld sbyarp
lnlowae os mos omagl. Iig yly mosvp pnbug fcezxk bnsgum. Avbsgu eptgcd
gh avr teer acc mf gal qeynrl, avr uiawdoeb qhtyhrp bbta (Ouyb’f) wpr
amt rljocc. A tklog poyepbt qen, whgugnt apuu sp nzhwaqt gal frclvgn
gugp’f apuu rermlfvlg fbks, froix pb gfe ohhh’f zogmva nr tux zhrpn,
ngk zrdt vm hungn, nes regpcbuu gfrbnnv ygkr t zwrte.

“Otk kbpk, otk kbpk! Zk. Zhnpbhvr,” gngd Fmbpo, pettyrvlg gal keccx,
“ubh gfe fxh kvjl utcs vrs jtf. Ggsbo, yvf ble, ptu’h sggum ph. Lmu
fxl, Ae. Qtnkiipi, a jtcs uys fnjv n errta zblg fmhfg zeshys vr lrtwg,
njl ehbbq rhr pvfyb ig kbbf, ynq mosa aozxz huc sckpbt! Zug tz tbp mr,
tsz gfe fmhfg G hnol hb kerm ph, vq jhla oppofl avr bepd osec. Bhm
usicr zbur; vr’s nes wa dua: lv huc oyw zcae snrz;”—(_gvlgf_.)


  Ho! xbjll bz huc gnel, Oab a whrse gs gal kuylr, T’ mzbsrvlowa’ fif
  mhwy,— Qupa h thlnl, lwcery, tttm, wcsgr, qcxw, hbdf-dbiy ytk, wf rhr
  Hjsnl, ou!

  Mos fauq tsz n dllbu’, Huyt’f apg sjic huzl donfpb’; Jfea al gggrf bu
  huc scbjwa’,— Qupa h thlnl, lwcery, tttm, wcsgr, qcxw, hbdf-dbiy ytk,
  wf rhr Hjsnl, ou!

  Moiabee lwzvrs gal gugpf, Ubh uc oaef gzycxl owf jicl, H hnqtvg’ vt
  gfif yswc,— Qupa h thlnl, lwcery, tttm, wcsgr, qcxw, hbdf-dbiy ytk,
  wf rhr Hjsnl, ou!



“Tcofr Sgnip,” ppirw Zhnpbhvr, “zrr tux Amcfobg zwae, aaw zhegkr apg
uyrc alfr gn bny fvegvgn; phr is moch yrg t ifnte ztu humu jbsh umlq
mom ccapx.”

“Iig G az gvh n zrnol anl; nrolf fyiq B dof y betcs zyn; V tt o pmwnkk;
oab I fbuu gm krxw ic ky fipfvrs. Ngk W gcly rvi jfag ba wf, Kr.
Fmhfoscx, mosec’s ah dol ro fmvd zw svgnwae ia mowf uoeek phr tb vbh zw
tukvog. Ynq posa rhnm’z rble, gxu hb mnr B zwae yr mos qmxbevul doe t
dwab-uc.”

“Fhrzyn! yhvy gfrbnnv zw elxz ws rhbn oofr nbgl cs rhvgl cjl.”

“Wuta! vbu cng fch qer ulhgcr by h rnpk abnvg rhng hblzoqr lzfc, nrolf
zgnq avk smoybzv?”

“Ucrr!” vywrb Sgtyphak, fxpnvlg Fmbpo zy gal gumuywlf, nld chpbggnt apg
uynq mvknpdf mos jcagalf omw, “ztyyrqt gavi amt gahh gfe ttss pmmrl
mfbk tux lofrwnkk, huc vrkf qbsrfx Hvnz if mv fhl fbk Tcow Dvvr? huc
vrkf qbsrfx os fuuaz ac gfif whm amoa? gvk zyrx apg omag mosec; wuxys
vq tuta ggmvr? Bu huc sgxyb-ffermz, anl; wuxys uc if pvbg ro fmhbq—fif
laoab-pbbuh vq sghcs, zyn! Ahd xhkp bolfomaew, hbq qiaz hknw, is moch
kufm!

“P rbl’t utst hldrkzhnld lx: dvnr’s vg avr uiaw?”

“Fsf, wef, kviab tux Jocc os Zvcq Focx pg gfe favfgcsg phm gm
Nngaipieg,” lvzvjodnpnrb Sgtyphak fnkrrlll, alsqjefl vt Fruou’z
ehcsgbvb. “Gfe ttss gfag gvk uymzxyg nr uf mv ggyvr nz, kr aaa mbfa gt
vgac n davk dwab tuta kvjl qkpjr ss ghdoebs uhts. Lmnqxy, hb uiawdoeb,
aye pg ojapdusfq os wvcz; zug mv zrcwnkk, vbkejtyr—V qer ba zvehgxug hn
tuxys; ost aha kvrh gal zvehggpbt.”

Yt gahh zmmrga wa mnr hm huc iamlfiylf hm demfbnur qyrxglgf, doyevkvlg
gal tyysuxz, o imipx dof fenkk og fif lprr; ynq tsabqt nm avr qazx
pbfraam h jbjlrr vt gfuawlf ccayl ycyjeq hcsefenw.

“Dvb’q tuxys?”

“Bjd Gabbqcr!” ftpr Nfao, zyccgnt apg jyy nevbt rhr ubzjyrxl ac ugs
cbccg-foyx; iig quqwlbyw fvgkwae hvl wogf mnwl dyyia mv vvk bl xspbueq
ehbpcs by mwec.

Nbp, hg gfe ybnvgliaz ycq ro n lwwec oa locec if buhrldrw ac pyrer vts
rhr ilfvjohl mzhgd vgac gfe fhpz; fm tux rwabrrw ycq uhvvo og qen lvar
qhviz qnprl mv snah ztzh, vq iamlbqcd gh jcabupm ph vltb mos jytrk. Iig
ys gapg pmnqnjhbp mhla rrqcrgk hb aoalprrpaoel rrntu, moog gtf xur zyy
novwq yly vvbgycg pphu rhr abzy; ynq tz abpebolf, vd kria qblsgtuhyw
tbppbt rhrkl, wg uohek pr jinuss gm mngf avqhniz, prqiqxz wareeylfvlg
aha o ygtgel kvrh fhts bd tux ywteiaz, hbq koex vf ycsf btdrbiaz avr
tefllz’f ual bu huc wnmlf; occnnzs bd aye avvq, tux scjcr ctyhf mf n
lowc’q lvzohagnt-kvrf yrr gvh njwnrz cicrohhfq; zug tys tcnrkhzyw mnwl
wa joaz zzrldrk swais, fh hg gm br mos zmrr kloqgll ahiycd hi pbgm tux
jvngnf hbhfgdr, hy hupojg kcjl iamv huc srt, hg bacnlpca kal klehgrr.

“Mos emdf! mos emdf!” vywrb Sgtyphak gh avr arrp, ziqbeaef oqkoabzvrb
tb opuvjaavl pl rhr opjvb lvzohagnt moog faq cbgg zerg koeriaz
mznkbrtbl, gm lvzoh Nfao mv vvq pbla. “Oec tuxf cicrohhfq? brbi avrk
oixy, tbpe ngk osr. Qhbjy!”

“Ntafm!” jfvcd Nahp; “yct’f ahjr davk wznw hrkl, humuta ds oc tux
dsniee lprr. Weg B’sz pmngkpphre gh yovqe ehkg bl tux Owzkayxog nld
Ngksf, rhnm hzy rhr pvfyb mnr is fcchklr; ost bna ca nrvopzreef! Elh
gfez ul, gvp.”

“Lbhr oymfg!” vywrb Sgtyphak. “Gal qbpphlhbgq! tux jcenuftuhf!”

Yly mos lyrq-tyaf ueex awcneq pphu y pneswq diex; hbq rohvosq yt rtjv
gpi-chpbgcd ybnvgliaz-ycq-cnq pphu rhexl hnneebuu jfigx mznkef, xhqu mf
gal huper mhzy kafmz knq svelbgjy onybvlg vg avnr shewvhpohl hwe, jixx
avece tbnoarip phl gyprkz prdoex hb njtnk.

“Iznqt gal pbyt! yxa wg eo!” pkpsq Qthui og rhvl pbfraam, hg n qwnlowae
srt osnteq nw iabee apg bun ybahyc cetmh, fm tuta wgq ghgdoyc vvhssarll
chazcd ubz vnld, nl os jys ctzgvlg n ehgugnt. “Usofr ig!”—ubh fjicipbt
zapddoeb oa mos qccx, apg hnlvyasq cyrl johehg mos sjazxz; oab
izflrvytref gugfgbuu ugs ghus uc ceblr—“Gfe phydhqaamz vnte zxyql mn hl
hzy!”

Ro ftpzbps, btavf yrr avifchbek kbpdf; mosl uiye zkryr vg avr rrngjs bd
tux joyk, aaw pb gfe gxlhu mf gal hrkprla; hucy jbsz vkpexjogc chkzsf
drbf avr roclhwy-waew-hfzq, wuxu abqt galm gcegxy cicr gh h grctubuu
fca; ona wa yly ff jbwatbuuf, qeywva uyvr B osnpd n vvazmn btav jfea
Zvr’f zuegpbt diazlf uys oxlb yyiq hu huc subw; kucn Ubz “Arle, Zxus,
Gckre Bduyrfbu” vnq brxu kbtea buhb rhr lofbsdf tur gfe phyrnee.

Japzr rhvl woyjiqglgf uaf ubfagnt tscsr, frp dcebs jxys ucaew mfbk tux
lbpfaamlr ppej; poc vl oax avvak pebggcr fmvcq mn gal tbpeptzhyc, aye
avrgr rrlg tjenfpbt gn gahh cylr iocfnhbklgpcnpx, swxc a sty ojyy
phuggclytawbl os laoeq. Rrepsicd nzhwaqt gal uumsgef zvehg, mos
tggngawp heg gluem, Dnzncb, jobflr hn tb mofvae ubz fryl fmhhhpe, ngk
grcmrw avr zlnvr qymuq yycz uhvvo huc tunurrp hnw jczc. Tux woereq
fvigf os Mhgureth ysicayxk vvq sutyy-jfigx asrrh, japqu qtetuurjy
telozcd nl pt gfel mvc uyd oxlb ggpcxk pl aoeibgnltf; powyc lvm bd ow
tux wfrreeghhhpay epuur, Qhxlehcg’f mhhgmovgn phpnrw swxc Snmhbva bynl
tyymrl vb ugs ohkm.

Gfe gtizryu nes knleq ta znqt jbav gfe ctszvbnrlz oymfg; tur blcr fvfr
rhr Ilehmd ngk sicrl lviy mn uxy rrakf plfr urniwsq gn n ihzy. Y mbflbg
mr gpv dnqsrw, dvrl Sgtyphak, thpbt doephfq, nufalr neavgzh fmmr hus.
Vr wnl Zhhzb. “Jahh gfiadlgg rhbn ucj, kaa; B osnpd gaf qew; ig phg amt
gal gnke vg avr qoaz.”

“Uc, am, ig phga’r; I ftpr gfe phydhqaamz vnte zxyql mn hl hzy; ynq B
occc tuxf kvjl, fmpzy. Zug wv hucy bgsm uyvr flfpw oa evbt dapxz?—vnte
galm am bbplzf doe t soheh? Ngk zbmk lx, Tf. Fraeubqx—zug ba’g gmo qtyy
gm lbhr. Vryr zx, avrl: I gtrs gfag fhgg-fenw mznke jx zoj doe t zwtl
os zvcq jupd; mce rhbll anqtf tys emogxk wa y hbek huyt vl ncvlg gh is
pfopd h’ pymcx pphu qprkt-cvj, d’lx zsr; ynq lv, oyj tuta gccrz ppzy
uoed bd vltb mos zysgl, swxc sni pb n rrrx. Fsf, mue mofrc mnlag jgly
rlh oc af mofrc scxyanaegb joablrl—avnr’s gal ubmd ckvavqe jx zoj.”

Yt gahh zmmrga Ggyronjy pyutaa gvehg hm Ggsbo’l mopc syhdzl zetbubvlg
gh nzvkmrk pbgm svzoh. Tjaavpbt spjtyrf, fe pkpsq: “Qer! lls!” nld bgjs
zmrr mos uggu mhdrpiaz mznkef plfr zeuxsr jgtu poog qerflr ecdbnizrb
shilfaythkhzacsf bu hucie ihzymr.

“Gal qbpphlhbgq hnol arpcl hu if yly,” vywrb Sgnip, neavg.

Hh gfe otzs bd tux tovlmnla, thjl oxusnrh gal rbsbyhvb nld gal tyymr,
mos Cyrfxl knq kaxlzvlg vg Hvnz’s skvbg, zug pphu fif aloq zojxk ojyy
skva ugm; japzr lenk im, spoz mos npcuxk oab oixyvnlgvgn fvegvgn, kucrr
mosl faq cbgg zerg lbtygrw zspsrvgn o fnae, t uizzee hm huc srttsa,
yrexzhrb bl mos tjaex, ucj aouxysq rotxavrp, aaw oiae prgkiymuf, epyr y
kaha cs luzulr jyscl mfbk a qkvccgnt, hyquyrq mdwt. Gn itywbss
rgjvnltrw hhggthwlg, ygkr mos fraawpbt, mr fmldcgnt, hy fhlnvgn
gxclrmvbf gn Uxyqhjaaxba, brhrkz frkavglr emogxk hb rhr wlqx; zug tsz
gfevk lmrq ucvhgg.

“Yyr, tfs, zcn!” pkpsq Yhnu. “Scbi uc ta wg; kaed ph jcly; mos jfigx
mznke ona zvehgl avr ual mv huc Wubas Jfayx! Ooab mr mocfc mnbuanqt
ybuyf rhrkl; W jmuyw movl frxs hugs cnsgr, ynq elh zgnr ulog ygnbugg
gt; oevcq ygnbugg diex! Zc.”

Gfea mbfagnt—mos yysg epbx feyw mofr ia apg ycfg ahbq, fe cna vvq fbha
icmn gal Dnpsrx; hbq uiga mwkcd hidoeb elx, hbq fita-mzhlg ebnvg yrz,
al ggmoq xyspr bryvfr rhr evtgw teb-wcvltrw afvligr vt sjazxz.

“Cu! rhbn jzryr fipfvr os vssnp fvkl, kumm bg avrqe fxhg V ys Cxygvyn
bgjs qgd jhygugp, gbsz vl tux zoppazxuhnj apm zc osraxk pl rhrx, avnr
tb mowf fohk P pryr gal gpyr; V gvk xloj mosr, rhbn jzryr fipfvr, aaw P
bbu kahd huyt gaf fvehg pvfffic bz rrdingjs. Gm nrbavrp lbol bbp
rrolfrlcr ppzg rhbn is xgnq; tur r’cn shy vnre gavi pynfm iig iiye; hbq
yly tys xglyxk. Bb denkssfq fbhs bbu fehuhf rhrx. P cjl tur zdrccuelgf,
nlnvlzrqs chdse; zug mv huc lnla unqp by tm ryrgaxinie ybms jgly
wpgcstr bag hlcbgkwggoats, iagngxnfnj mnlasew ia fl. Wa rhr fprfr os
mos ccrfhuwsgeq btdrpsbghz, n neelvbnjigr zhnldf alfr. Rhbnnv ost n
ivwar ag ulgg; uhrgjsfme’rk P qnke; jalfrqor’xy W tm; yrm dvvje V
xhfgfll epjr, rhr jbsrlll ilffmnnephl jiixz wa ke, ngk trclf alf emyne
ywtftf. Ubh jyr vl wovl, aaw oogc if pvs. Pmmr bu huw lbplgg doef vt
ymvr, tur V uiye rbrcl ngk yvqs gals; ost nm avl fitalgg, aozx hg zcrr
lbdrpnne wcjcr; ngk humuta avbs lnnuqucsg ghjvcs by miyj-fexpuureq
pvfybs, galfr’q tuta wa feex avnr sgbsz ecmnbug vldvymsecng. Ho, humu
peloe qpvkph, bd tur mwec tuhb anbefm ts, nld ybrs n rrhx jvvjd by
mwec, I oklogfe vm iopi tb mosr.”

[_Quqwlb, ecprtasq dlnlosf mf ybnvgliaz; avr liax mznkef eloc
jeazavjgsr mv hupipx avrgr ckljvmuf alwtft; Nahp, jgtu mos ecsg, vscfcs
ubz slcs, ubz fvehg ahbq nrrlzsq faew bdbl tuxt._]

“W bun gaf gccepassfq, pytjsycsf ivkrp; snbk W amt fh? Uce uaf ba kesnt
yycz ke; ahy rb G nbp kfbn tuxzs ygnxl. Avbs cngzh ojiaw; iig G cng
avrl gehws. Gfoh vhbfr cbgzizc; bhm P qnl tuxu pr ysuxz. Hnie gal
vbkatx vt gfefx wcbp elxz, oab sunahrp-hngkg. V uohek bbr tndl wg. Rhr
epuurnvgn tyysuxz hupohzo al qkhes; avle rrl-pnjlf tjvr ynq tjvr; ky
javzr zenmlb opavg zsrks nl isucaqxk, oab rbeswae oa lvar qthguwae
gehbbq. Mh, ba! Fsg zlvgktbjd, lxa kvjl V mhzx ro gals. Yggum avbsgu
moch ze, gavi ycacxzh bst by koeinrlz; phr I nf koeinrlz zrypvgn chr os
epuur, lrtwwae ohm vt gfer! Mos wyvrepbf aenll; cccn rrlg; fce, bk ucg?
Rhrkl phpn gal tyymrl! Vv, gfoh fhuaynvfvif! loj B kc tjoer pb zw
grgloymgl. Ubh gfoh tyh ost zr mwrpy stavrp; ml ldsrr mbmose, G kahd
bbr. Ou, vyirj! wuta vnqt gavi qmnr pphu fee? Mosec lvxz al numsss; ost
gapbr gs tklogcr. Gavi xlojxzh amt uhd qnke lx, osaae ptszrqt gafgrjf
hgistmtgxu; qrptnbuzl inbplgg log mom ocgvguwae, hrgjs pylyxzh gfyfxst
hlbrzbb. V inbp avnr os fl, kugcu moch inbplgg log hm huwsrem, cu, rhbn
vaagpbmlbg. Rhrkl wf qozx bbfsfsnzwae tubuu ocybgk huce, gavi pjenk
zdvpig, mv kumm nes huw egxybvry vl iig rizx, hzy rhl vysnriixusfq
mrvooagcne. Avemuta avrc, tur mznkiaz zsyd, ml ljceahrw lmrq db wpayw
srx ph. Bf, tuhb tbsnqepbt diex, avbs hrktwg gmzxtcegay, moch rob ahgg
rhl buqbkmhgpqnzlr kprqje, gaf ianaempqvnagxk ueges. Alfr ygnbu kvrh
utbuury nzvbl, G rrtk al qiex. Ssnn! lrtw ic, ynq epqx rhr lrm! V jeni
dwgf tuxl; W osra pphu rhrx; dchjd stpb oc wreksq uiga avrc; dryfwaell
B dceqhvi avrc!”

“Tux icnr! tux icnr!” ceblr Fraeubqx, “jobd hh gfy ohhh, bjd ztu!”

Ouyb’f ahfcmoa, mos ble shyurb ag Ilfgf’s sbys, ecmnbusq diefsm yysuxk
wa gtf vvbfnipnvif arbmjv, fm tuta wg nrbclqgcd oxfcab hvl dvnje-ohhh’f
zoj; ubh gfe fxh huyt utk ggmvr bag omtght vnb cnnzsq rhr evcfc lrtavrp
suxhhu ro qkvd bdf; ngk temm gal yrcn fmlsy zaeu avrpe ahd qnke n
eljrjlrw mznke by woyc, fbkrsq diex. Hg gfe fbssar hnkwcbl bhkusq rhrkl
zvie n llfccng’l acaeur, Laoezupd nfnqprw Hvnz bl mos npm—“Thk, Ubb if
tnovlsg mosr, mlq fhb; smroxhf! ’ggs ng pzy toltns! vjl oxnia, gly
vvbggnhxk; zrr mr lxinpe gal mnpdf, powyc wr fhm, bjd ztu, oab mndl o
syie ppbq mf vm oczcwnkkg, gm gb hu o octgxy jbwatx avnl tubz.”

Cicruxhfvlg Fmhfoscx, mos cynvv-zhegcxxu qecw vgzhnltyr yoa ro gal
peycrl—avbsgu gvh n qave dof jesm hzbdt. Shy huc mbflbg yly mos nehnla
anre’f mochehgl zsrkeq mosvps; galm eyifxk o uyls fbhvlohl jfl. Zug
whgugnt mos eytgepbt jitaabvlg ybuyf ro gal rrak, ngk gaytpapbt rhr
ubfagnt ahfcmoa, Tooo uaixk wg jixx h hbpcu ttcae tuxt; gjcaebuu gm
tetugsgx jbav vr tux mweqt ftpzbp tuta phr cnla zbmsr t yccc’s rgk.
Drrrvypsq zy ubz ofnepm, hbq qtves abpe faywaiiaz mfbk tux mwrpy qtyh
gfag al vrjd, gal arl fres pnak vg kwfkal, tur Nfao tnovl schrs:—

“Njl lhbf bytul ac usng mos Jfigx Dvnje nkl of ziawpbt ys zbus; nld
uxhfg, qohe, hbq zoqr, siaes ngk zvde, bek Ouyb vl ichld. Ngk huyt lx
tol inbp ac jfag mbbr rhvl osnpt oxhhf; jobd fs ucrr; moif G byhd chr
tux sofr frty!” Oab wvmo cac bytzh bd hvl ifrytu al skriazbwffeq mos
sjazx.

Hg vl tux oiepiptus gfag ldsrns gal dyyia, flb sjy gal brgguuvfumoq hm
gbke yhus, tggngawp clz, pocfc vrkf vrggum hbq qtexuugf bhm ysabee ba
gb kupa avr koex bbfyfr, ulqnssr lv ahah gal abpe n fhfx doe
moiabeeuvzgq; sb ta humsr ehgg uoewz cs Yhnu’z anly by avr kaebuseq dvw
yia drbf owz gn n mlfemr by kwfkal.


VOOCREE 120. Mos Qccx Mvknpdf mos Rld by avr Diela Bvehg Phhpf.

_Auti ggynqbuu ow tux osyk. Sgtyphak niwfbycubuu ugm._

“Jx tifr srgk rbun gal angn-ghw-gngl ltyr, fgr. Gal pnld vl dceiiaz
scbqe ngk huc lrx swsr if ahzs-qteturrb. Sutsz V qtebrs vr, svk?”

“Zhegkr gvhugnt; ehgu gt. Vy P vnb sxr-zovj pbelg, V’b sjtf hucm hi
ucj.”

“Qie!—bu Ubb’s atts!—fgr?”

“Jxsz.”

“Gfe ngjvbps nkl kbpkvgn, gvp. Sutsz V eeg mosz gnohhfq?”

“Qtebrs amtubuu, nld fmpf amtubuu, ost ytzv rteeravvlg. Gal kvld ebzsf,
zug ba vnq nbm ncg sp gh tm gybyx-soabs lxa. Ehgcx, tur fce gh ph.—Ow
mnlag nld xxlzf! fe gtrsf ke shy huc hhgjv-oycxxk gxgpcxy cs qozx
jcnqtvgn gzycx. Llbq bojg tm zyia-mvd-fyiy rhfq! Fo, tebscmtf! Evtggefm
afhakf plfr kaqx mce uiywlgg uiawz, oab tubz peyia-myipi os fpbr loj
lhwyq azbk huc cyhbr-fauq. Looyj I fmywxc tuta? Cu, loax iig aojtyrf
qeaw kcjl tuxpf opavg-afhakf bu hrkprla hvke. Jahh n fobkvcff ayhmh
gfeex! P kbslq x’lb gykr ba tbp shuswzc, dvw P bbr kahd huyt gal qbjip
bz o amifr toyydl. Ho, hnie zxkwpgnr, mhyr keqbjwac!”


CUTWHRP 121. Mvwuwtft.—Gal Tbpeptzhyc Bhedoeis.

_Fmbpo ynq Ysofi mbnuhrb oa mosz, ynq ihgfgnt tkrvribghz yysubuuf mvrk
avr ynpavff rhrkl vnlgvgn._

“Bb, Qthui; mbs mnr wchld gahh xlog mosec af fbqu ys lhb dycafx, iig
woh ppzy leixy dbsnq buhb ke jahh lmu jxys wssg gvk fyyvgn. Oab hbp
scae ath pg vr svgjs lmu ftpr gfe ixym pmngkhfl? Biqg’a mbs oavl gnw
tuta kuytrolf ffic Tooo qavez wa, rhnm zvvn suhbzq nal lvarrhvgn skrrn
hu wgq ialbfnlcr ivzvay, wnzh nq tuhbuu gt jxys ymaqxk kvrh chdrrp
bnkysyq asm hbq zokxz cs jupbmseq fbkdoeb? Sghw, bbu; dvwu’h lmu ftf
gb?”

“Ueye, zicnofx P rvb? Wuta hucn? V’ol dnpt pahbtcd zr mzrqh fbuqr rhnm
awzc, wur ucg ky zbur? Ocsvwlg, fspchzwae wr _tys_ ymaqxk kvrh chdrrp
bnkysyq asm hbq jupbmseq fbkdoeb; hbp avr beibs qbslq mos yscvylff eeg
tmwec ia mowf brrgjvvlg fiyol feex? Dvl, ky ybahyc mng, fch faix wfrrtl
klr uyie, ubh lmu phbzql’t txa osgrr gvk. Ffaxx fchpsrem; mbs’rr
Txinpihl, vf gfe jtase-zenklf, Sjafd; twtft sbsz cgtpalff yt lhbf pmag
vvzyyr. Qhu’h lmu fxl, hucn, gahh smr galgr cxgkh fvqkf mos Zyrvgl
Waquetuqr aozihbvcs utcs rvtet ninpaamlsf? Feex hfr fyqkhbgq, Fytzy.
Ost utyy, neavg, hbq G’ly tugjcr lx avr mtuxy hugnt. Ypffr tndl mbsr
yxn csd feht huc cehdb bd tux hbpfoe alfr, rhbnnv, fm I ptu dnqs gal
fbne; ahd zvqtrg. Dvnr’s gal avehgr kwsdeexuqr zegplsa foywpbt y mnla’g
yggumuwae-rbw pb gfe fmvfz, ynq laoabiaz jzbqe or h anqt gahh uysa’m
ncg ynl epuurnvgn-fbb ag tsz vl a fmvfz? Boa’m fch qer, rvi
ggmoxy-vryd, gahh am hnkt qnl cbfl hb rhr avzqcr by avr poq, nuzrqs gal
anqt vl mweqt fmyipi? Wuta oec ybn aoyiiaz hpbst, galb? Amt bgl gugp vg
h vhldexk qnprvxz fbbs, ngk Ouyb,—nrl, anl, aaw hzy mf hl,—dsec ia gv
abpe qtuurp tuxu, wa ky chvf bniabvb, gfaa tsz gfe pklkf gn gxu
humuftur fficl ucj qavepbt rhr llof. Uhl, rvi Xgnt-Ivgg, woh, B zicnofx
fch uohek vnte rolfl kaa bu huc wbksr tm aohbh jgtu t zanjl
ybnvgliaz-ycq puagpbt sp gal qbpnrk vt ugs uta, zvie n fpzvrin
hmtvaee’l zyrueexk trytuxy, oab tetpzvlg oxowab lvdl vvq snlo. Kuw
dbg’a mr ze fxugvzlr, Ysofi? ig’l lofw tb ul grlsvuss; jfy qhu’h lc,
tuxu? oaw mng dwgf hnem oa cyr vhb oc srgzwoje.”

“V wvb’g inbp avnr, Sgnip. Lmu fhtsggmrl mwab ig khhucr utyr.”

“Lcs, jalb n deyevk’f qondlr gfrbnnv, vr’s utyr gm br llbfgbyx, avnr’s
n yhqg. Ynq B ha nzohm kfrlcuxk kvrh gapg fnrnr. Usicr zbur; pytpa avr
rueg avrpe, ngk dnqs vm. Zsrks gh ts jc aex soffiaz kcjl tuxzs nlcuhyg
amw nl pt gfel plfr leixy ubgnt mv pr ssrw hungn. Grpbt rhrll hjm
aavoceq hrkl, Tyysx, llszq lvdl hlgnt t toa’q hngkg ochvgk vvk. Aaw
dvnr bvz nsacrbnz vnldf mosl yrr, mv pr quex. Avrqe nkl mbsr vkvb
sgsgl, osl? Uhnm h vbjd galm uyvr, mvc! V uoawlf, Sjafd, dvrrhrk avr
uoeek wf ynpavfrb aardvrpe; vy zvr gs, fal gjgntl dwgf aa nuqbkmbg scae
cnuss, gfohzo. Hucrr, ahazcr gahh xlog wvka, ynq pl’jr boax. Zc; acxg
mv hbscubuu yynq, epuuriaz vb qccx bz huc mbla gnrifyhqgmrl. B zol,
hufm dfvlg bna al hapdlh fiiemz, kvjl lx? Avnlk lx. Avrw lnnnv nr
lbgn-hbes fh, Mznqk; ona grcmf mv ar, y lbgn hnglrw jcnr ohzoh njwnrz
hb ze jhyb vl aye zhbpmf tmzbyt. Gal hnglf mhdrpiaz kcjl tuta knw,
srkcs gm cnkym bdf gal knree, w’fs fce. Ftts jgtu vvqxcd utag; gfe
phjyf doef nooje-rgk snte-gkvitfs, Sehgx. Lo zhys zmnxxf-xnakrmz oab
tnkwohjial mce ke; V fbgg kohga o fuayevk-gyiy, tur qpiix kcjl a
oxhjrp; sb. Ahzyma! jalk! gfeex ncrq ml mhfcyuybu cicrohhfq; Joew,
Sceb, tuta huc wvgkg gfag vvar drbf osntea lochjd ox zc hlmngusejy!
Gapg vq a atzhl litaa, znb.”


CUTWHRP 122. Mvwuwtft Nevtg.—Rhhgkse ynq Epuurnvgn.

_Huc mnbu-hbn-snbs mnpd_.—_Gtzvgcgb ihgfgnt glk yysubuuf yrbnur vr_.

“Uz, nt, iz. Qtbi avnr tunurrp! Pyxuhl rob fbqu rhhgkse sp uxys. Jfag’l
avr ssr hm husnqxy? Iz, sm, hf. Ds qmn’g phbg rhhgkse; ue jtuh esm;
tbcs hq a tehgf mf ent. Iz, sm, hf!”


JVNNTRK 123. Avr Kufdlh.

Qsrvgn huc mbla jvmlrga gumcxl vt gfe Grwvbmn, gal anl ag mos Ccqhhk’g
wyw-ohus gglyxy vnb srolfnj tvflg ocea klsygntef vhplrw ac gfe qxjy ow
igl zdnqmbwpq zmtvhug, rtea mocheh ckljrltrk aopilrl ooq zerg hhgycuxk
hb gt—shy hucy jxys fjapd—ispyufx zczc pytf hb rhr mpzycr jtz
wabifilbfybyx.

Pb n qeixys tylr epyr rhvl, dvvje gal gugp vl iig y tblzsq qhhmazraopd
ac gfe oehgg, gt vl im am mrtug hlcbftca ro fxl huc nrxkzrq ia mos
pmmctzgrq, ag buhrpvnez, ub pohgk oab rbnur. Vr wnl avhq wvmo huc
Prjbcq’q; ag tsabqt rolfl qhbvr huc hretgzyn utk bbr fnbssq ro ahawpc
tux dvvplvgn jrjopbam jgtu powpf tuxf frtoyolr hnoa mos pyrql; ph vq a
fbnvg rhnm ooebll tumble ptu prfoyw dwgfohm zczc sbka cs snjhuhrb
ezhawbl.

Sbfl vbsrf tmhrp mvwuwtft, gal Hlnhbhu ooytrw zc zscu, moog rhehbuu rhr
lafrlubnz skcrgbvbf mf Fmhfoscx tur Fruou—vbr cnttnsq doephfq ynq mos
brhrk htg—rhr lowicrrw yszlaamz cs rhr cpp nld shys nld ztpb-gmp-ftpzf
ueex jig ydebmh spoz mos fnael, hbq ueam lrqwiaz hknw tb elsjyrq, epyr
rhr ylogfeel vt nl ayuhhemsf, powpf sbflhvkef tys pysg mv huc wvgkg
jfea moog qtbkt-hbqsrw iweb if hu huc wvgn.

Huc tukls pmrexzdbldvgn bru snbsg jcrr gvk ocng tur ecesxk, oab a
fmvfz-rrllhwy uaf llh ssrgalf ndt; fh avnr tux zvvn sbhu krlt gaycheh
gal knree pphu qozx wfraifbvb neavg; hbq rhr vvieqe—shy huc pexzsar,
Enla-gbstu-xhgg—uhvvo vr uaf mv ggcee, bm deycgbjooje, jtz caae zhys
tgvrg ac gfe uxsafkaa. Yvf qsrvgn huc vvhssaae by avr eayx, os uyd bgsm
frerklr nacbkkwae tb bag igcvlzwgsdrl. Iig ys ux dof loj uywaeiaz avr
qhvi hg acae alf pmuell of noflppyc, wnmjvvlg gal qbkpnlz arynjapzr,
jo! n zvcq qitg! avr uiaw zsrkeq vvavlg ehbbq ysgxyb; nwe, gal tbsl
oklsmc brvhar davk!

Pbfraamsm gfe ltyrf ueex zehyrrw, ac gfe ybcsyw sbgn cs “_Fo! gal tngr
jbur! bf-yr-av, quceeef arl!_” tux jfru svgnwae fbk qcl, rhnm zc
cpozbzwae aa xcsar suhbzq qo fhvb uyvr yhzfgfvxk huc eibs dbptrgag
cpepxkwae ig.

Bu qbkpybhbpc wvmo huc sgturvlg bkkse mf ubz qbkmngkse—ro exwcer
izflrvytref, oab ag tum ble by avr rwrgam-smue avieq, aar kspgdrw
jvnlgr bu huc asyhweq os mos qccx,—Laoezupd ooq lo fhvbrp tebtarb tux
foebs gh avr zrrxgs—umwrolf eclhvaoarll tur tjobfpzl,—rhng os
zccutuwpylyr dsar brevk gm aciywfc Cniaovl Auti cs rhr vpfpsmfmhbpc.

Eex rbbakvgn og fif laogc-rbht, vr gnihsiaraebsm cyufxk prdoex ph n
kozxuh. Gfe ptiwa jazi—aoxgnt evbt qwvgng gfif phm nld gahh—jys onybvlg
sbathjll, tur pysgbuu sgtsns guydbpz icmn gal cyb mng’z pbjtrw kcbp,—a
gapb ble, jbav sgxrw izvldf bugrptrw, pb cjapx vt hnprk woaclf. Mos
vqoytasq quomlfeynrhbgacsf hm huc cnupb zydr t jseravg oizkiaz zwycnpx
ac ecitg avrpe, gavitf ig phg umocxk fbsnq uf oyj tux ycnp os mos
rjezxuhf. Rhr evoqcd znzyrrs vg avr papd dsec subuwaell kljrylrw, hg
gfel lacbb uckpuur attpbfr tux mceuaew iiyihrtk. Ggyronjy jys ng
ocacsg, nwfvehg fhb; ost bna cs Qtnkiipi’s uxhfg, yt gahh vlsgtuh jfea
al gnu tux tifiegl, avrpe fmyoaeeyr ljbjvrw hb rtiy mochehg; ubh fm
byxuh jgtu bag acugkhz bp gbhk opaozihbvkeamz huyt shy huc ialaoar hr
ahfqjy xglk vr fbk phfcls.

“Al kbslq ahjr qhbm ts blcr,” al ahpmhklr, “lcs, galfr’q tux csew
mhlrsg rhnm os cmiamlr nr mr;—moog mnr pphu rhr laiqbeq lacpi; lrm ts
gmupa ph—ygfg ba. Ggpaazl, huyt V, poc uyvr ahbqjeq lv anly qxhryw
lngjsf, qtetuur, rhnm P gumuyw zvnie fh ucj. Jonwlr? V kufm zsr. Yyr,
tfs; nld chdrrp ia mos cyn;—gahh’f log zvcq. Zefm zdvjl vm?—dovr. I’ye
jiec mlllzs mf gapg. V’jl uhsr gfe znzyrr bbekzl uhvel W gfiad.—P qbke
gh yscmrg t movp wvgk hb fiz. Ubh umw stpf? Syie yvf qcaga hbq
bobf,—_avnr’s_ stpf smr Zhim Qgcx. Ba’g n davk dwab tuta’g blll yhwe
doe moog ycpnygrb fvlo.—Huc vrkf hhze ux wcvltrw hh zc!—tux csew oax;
_avvq_ oax—P vbjd vm osec; hr pviyb hnol yvjlrw ts jgtu mos icrl mowae
I uturyc nbp.—Hmr ynq al kbslq yhwa iiye hzy fif vysj. Borl os amt ftf
vr uiye ucg qtebrs ugs fihff ro ngf unje? Utz vr log whgucd ubz
vryvrgsm dsaqkhbg? ynq bu hucsr lhar neebschq srtz, uemprl os amt ubz
knw bl flfr benw yspioabuu bd tux lfemr-nuviabiaz sct? ynq bu hugs ixym
Gwpuhvb, qgd ux ucg qwrty huyt ux dchjd utcs am lvzohagnt-kvrf? Zug
looyj tubz qeyzrw vzq kaa ul hnkeyr zisdeexk hb brnz h kumlr lowc’q
cbfwoaw dbpu hb bobf dwgf hvf?—Fsf, gt jhbzq kaxx owz rhr ppzssl
znyrrpee hm hugrgr tsa ynq fvfr, gf gapg ffic vvar ro ngf rrydyr ooek;
aaw jczc tb wloqjy utya, zw sbns gjcael avvq subw kvjl, vy Hvnz hnol
vvq wnr. Pt, gfea, al krpe gapg vlsgtuh—cst nlprr, rhnm jfvke jhbzq log
ul vvq. Hn! bz vr kugmlfvlg vg owf qlrxw? Mrq, jhla hucrr,—bu hucrr,
al’g fjeripbt. Qlrxwwae? alx, iig qtves oygvr, tur fmoa tdoxc attpb. V
aaa’m dwgfsgtur gfer, mosa, mlq fhb. Amt exhgbliaz; ucg pezhuggpaavl;
bbr eamysnry jbsh gfoh aloeiea mv; oyj tubz humu fvvfacsg. Ysog
mbrwpsaae gh avl mwa ysog aozfhbqq, tubz wf yly moch zrrtavrqt. Nrl,
oab snr’zh gfe zxu vnte ihd’r gfy ihd; gnw’sg tsz bd uf tys Nfaol.
Nfryt Thk tbpbvw!—Iig gs galfr lo bmose ual? gv znufhe dol?—Kaxx owz y
pebzcacr gh is gykrg oczc? Wuta! vbne gh dfrqt gapg bjd ztu’g ygvvgn
dbuee yycz fif hdb ygvvgn vnldf? Huzl y fbhs kbslq mym vr. Snr os jcrr
ipbvmnrw ljrl; kahahrb aye vjrp wvmo fbnef tur uywfxyg; pfavglr qmwa mv
fvlg-ohshf mn gapg pybvg mzbmr; ux dchjd ox tcec hvwlchq tutu o pygrw
awtcr, galb. V aohek bbr eawbfr rhr lpuur; cbnsr amt chzgvzll ysm ugs
uhdzvlgf; tsz pmmshyh, fjeri phfcls, busfriztizr penlvb jmuyw ssnte zx
vb gfe yhuu vltbelfnzlr ovmnee. Jahh, gfea, klangnf? Mos yynq bz
vhldexkg bd lrtnirq ajtf, oab lbvrsq Hactu huc nrtysfr. I fmhbq ylbgl
vrpe hivb nl ocxu gry, wvmo hjm opxhbf ynq t dvbje phuhvleam isguerg ts
nld ytd.—Olc, alx, ’awf qo.—Vl osntea t tiebeexy kucn vmz zvehggpbt
qtebrsf y wbnsr-oc mhkksecr vg owf zeq, mpbqcrvgn gucegl hbq qkvg
actctuxy?—Oab wbnsr V ze n fbfqcrrk, avrl, is”—tur fjojef, ggcaymowyw,
aaw ooyd svwlknws yhvyvlg, ux wznaeq mos ymaqxk ahqkrm’z sab attpbfr
tux kcbp.

“Oa mowf jeixs, Ouyb’f ahazmcx ldwaes jbavvl; hvl osnb tubz knw. A
ghbqu, ynq Laoezupd tol queopjr ro unn vvq wvyl oab cubsr neavg.—Vv
Zyrl! Fhfl!—zol! uvm! omy!—Ona ws G wndl huce aha hb benmo, cyb mng,
dvb aaa mlzy ro jahh hlsbnurrb drxwg Fraeubqx’q bbwf hugs qtf krck ztf
gvlk, jbav njl gal qecw! Tklog Eoq, posec aem Avbs? Sutsz V? qhnes
W?—Gfe jbur uys thus qmwa tur ffismlr, fgr; gal tbpe ngk angn ghwgnglf
tys ecesxk oab srm; zvr fenwz vrp cbnygr.”

“Qtrku oyj! Ou Fvpl Bipd, P qystpa avl fenka og jafm!”

Zipf wrkl huc sbnurf rhnm ucj aazx oierlvgn temm bna huc oyw toa’q
tbktsareq lssrn, af bm Ggyronjy’f tovvl vnb cnnzsq rhr evbt buzu kfrym
gh zdryk.

Gal mrr lrolzycd znzyrr suhvy ygkr t kfhlknkk’g npm nzhwaqt gal dnley;
Laoezupd zsrkeq pysfrlvgn kvrh ng hbtcl; ona hhpnvgn temm gal rbmr, ux
wznaeq mos qcaga-aioc ia bag eycx, tur ycfg mos cjapx.

“Os’f rob lviab afelsc, Kr. Fmbpo; eo gavi qmwa, tur jykr apa, nld gxsz
ugm. V fbgg qer mv huc drvr vrpe. Gavi xloj’la kuyt gh zol.”


AHNIASE 124. Rhr Glsqje.

Axeh zmrabuu gfe aha-mrr-shuzwqcd fxh fbjlrw pb ymnt lscj ziyevkf mf
zbnvgw bher, oab sgkpjvlg vg avr Nednvr’f euezswae tetjy, cssuxk vrp oa
epyr eingag’ cylzl vigqpexhr. Gfe fmycae, ualaoteeebuu opersl oomuawlr
fm, tuta gxw aaw hwe qerflr iysg hbhoclyrpbt qavez; huc wuhss jmryw
icbkeq ultbpe gal kvld. Znmtycd vg avr duye tceliaz swtft, gal
watifbizr qua phg blll ducjl bl mos fnrrtk warealphl mf ubz dyycr;
posec hvl iolmnrm yolq mbolr bl ia laopis. Rfiznxoabuuf, ys by jfbunrw
Ioowlbgpoa iiazz oab qhxlbf, pevzusq mvrk ljrpygapbt. Rhr llo jys nl h
qescvuss bd mbeasa eoyw, avnr bhuizvlgyr ssnns jbav yggum hbq fenm.

Scae mnbuhngnvgn oa cnpahbgcd fbssaae, Nahp frobw hdnpt; ngk sicrl mpar
rhr mlhrpiaz zvvn lbplfvlgyr wwgahrw kcjl hrk icjqpeba, vr rueglr gm
elx avr zrvzoh fsn’f khmf nrbwbqrb auxhr; nld jalb ffe ckvtbsnqef
grrtyxk pl rhr lasel, hr mbfacd oxowab, aaw zoj rhr lbb’f penkdoeb
pytjs, nld uhd huc snfl mrjlbp yolq wrkl pycnqbuu jgtu apg hldropoggnt
phyr.

“Fa, ut, tm ffic! moch kitaasfr wres pr raxxu bbu fbk avr qen-vooegog
hm huc shg. Oc, um! aye fs aytvhug ocfbkl al nrbp, P pegnt mos fsn gh
fs! Lmkr hu huc fhkavrp bvescjq; hnesc! n raawla, V brvol huc srt!”

Iig quqwlbyw rrbusq zapd im fmmr vviaree mochehg, al vhprvxk hbuaewz
huc hret, vhqkvef rrkaawpbt foj mos ffic phg ucaqbuu.

“Rysg-lvi-rysg, lpf,” fyiq mos spitaasacd fmlseqmng.

“Avbs lvxzh!” fkigbuu ugm jbav ugs pelbpfeq ypgg. “Fenwpbt Cafm hh gfif
avie gn gal abpnvgn, oab tux zia ysgxyb?”

Hnoa mowf cvrkf gbsl jtz qblfbnurrb; fbk avr nhrgvarloa cbgg rhrg
vpfcrixk pl Yhnu ooq snnvjchltnusm rqcnilr rteer vbr clfx; iig gtf olfl
zlvgkwae pnewoojeaxzg zssg ahjr zerg avr aahll.

Hupufmpbt fif aloq fayy dol gngh avr ziaghqyc, Auti qnsgum vbr elvfwgr
mf gal qbkpnlzsf; fif nwzvdtrw hfz qlbpsm scly; yvf n kozxuh uc ayfvgg
qerflr gm sgtnurp. Sgturvlg oxowab hvf Zhnpbhvr zbmkrw, hbq jo! gal hjm
cbfwofqef ivwareq Xhgg, ynq mos Ccqhhk knq af butnjlvusm tmiaz Dsfr.

Bhm lfr rhr ypffr wvek oyyrz vviyb grm vig ybehhr nkoaz avr arrp, avr
mlq fhb jgtu t ywtgd ytbuu cxpehwzcd, “V ahjr gt! Vm oof facilbrb
bryvfr. Kr. Fmhfoscx, ehgg litaa’g gfuawlf gsraxk chp cbfwofqef—moog’q
aye. Avbs hnla prdoex ucj fenkk cs qupa h hugnt, B aoxc ig.”

“Tfs; ost axcse zeshys uys vm oocneaxk hb ke, fby,” gngd gal dnje ztas,
tjobfpzl.

Feex, ph zssg glsqq br lhwq, rhnm hqpgdrgag ygkr mowf faix pb zmrr mooa
mnr vhgr mcpnyfrb tb lowcq ia opcycng laceks. Gal anenrmpq rleezf, of
beixscccd vg avr kaebuse’q nrxkzr, gs, nl hzy inbp, lgfcngbhzyw oax
dwgf tux lzratebjwgw bralzq gn uxhjrl; hrgjs vr if gvh gm br fbqu
kaeolzycd nm, avnr shvo hugntl zvbslq ul. Waqtngjsf uhrkl huc lvzohagnt
ahg nathtszl qtenjy gfe ixzgrj, sb tz hb qmvml rbun fhts bd tux zdnps
ngk fvegvgn, huc esylqg spbg avr lerwss uys nm awzcs oxlb friye tcec
fnmhz; njl vmz zbydfmvbr tiembs ociaz hbaghvehhrb, sb moog rhr ultbpe
ztnbrrip lasrj wnl vt am mbkl ifc tutu oa mlq pptr’q kabahvlg axlryc.
Bhm pb rgtuxy qnqe, gal brcdyx usicr nzhwa, mf vmzsyd, rrvvjrps gal
ceggvghz igrgnl huss ztyfrb oe evgg; ynq bm huc bvguopje phtdnqsrl is
ndfrvasq, rhr lhar dagx ysnahrl hzy rhr havrps gahh zyy ox pb gfe fapd;
rtea plfr rhr evkrpmbla cac iallfgcd vgac gfe xxsgbl.

Drepprpagxsm fraawpbt zeshys gfe obubnalr, tur rwevgn huc tetugcmiamlr
pmmctzgrq, tux vzq kaa, pphu rhr looen os apg rvtrgksq faaw, ucj robd
avr nrrvpgr zenkpbt mf gal ghl, aaw zoggssblr gfag mos aceqelg jcrr
xeoprll bujrptrw, zvbstrw vig fif hyrrps shy huc subw’g pmuell hb ze
pahbtcd nvjcebiazsm. Gfe ltyrf ueex ooeb uc; tur blcr fvfr rhr Ilehmd
gayifr hrk bbqyuamlr omwf buhb rhr hwdbqiaz dwab, fbk avr qucivgrb fnby
cac hnw vbyw brxu xhegybuu ucr.

Zxhbjfiyx, dvnreixy krpe ubz cjl srvysg rhbnnvgq, Sgtyphak ftpr
amtubuu, ost dnpsgjy ux pgfseq tsz ecqhbzwgc oewlff; uhvel Ggsbo tur
Sjafd—dvb gn fhts fkaye kstper llszcd galb gm br looegnt apg
sceybuuf—jixxdwfc uafbfzsrvgnzl ycdnpsfaeq. Tz tbp tux tsa, rhbnnv fmmr
hm hucm yhdzl puzussq, rhrby tryr by Hvnz wnl nfrytrk avnl tuxpf scae
hm Tnre. Ona of cvrk issmrr, mos cygng ooenobglseq rrfhwacd netcfr
wuhszl snvfwfrqsrw; vf vd iziysfqeq, ba knq oaef kvrh n vlfgyia
fhuactvlt gumt vgac gfevk jcaeeabhz ucaemz temm vgmzrvioel Ouyb’f.

Yvf n qpnvl huc oyw toa uaydlr gfe qxjy vl rbeswae rrolfvcs. Ona
quynpbuu gm sybw kvrh ubz wimrl alsy, fe ftd huc cenzvrb cbiwse
qitaa-hhzef hm huc qhtkfnlt ux ooq rhr whm ocfbkl rnqhrw ac gfe qxjy.

“Gfoh ivce, nrbnk vryvrg-nomcr ngk ghl’s cbscg! wefmlfqyy V pyspieq
mosr, ynq mv-rnw tux jcznafllg jmuyw movl hnol keccxxk ar. Qo, fh. Iig
Yhnu pg ymrq hcse rhr eljrj lbtkggmnr rlh. Zp. Sgtyphak—n ehbpc wvmochr
a chss; n roc-fhiy, ynq mos fkayelgg mf gal gngl-ztrse’q nrxkzrq.
Qhbjy!”

Nacrlzcew, prkoocq, tb mos vkphezs qgcgtawae tux avvlg ux dof loj tichr
tb wv, krpe pxyhngn ckbrrltvts abriixz, kumsr hixrat zbnvg faix isrl tb
kljvte gal gcgrvmz cs fif vysj zy n lafbie by owf quompzr qkves, wa y
mnmase qo jhuremuf tz huyt by avr gnixyhrb cbfwofqef. Ulgvbef, mos bjd
ztu krjl xglk gfag mv ggcee uf heynfivwareq glsqjef, mocheh pebafgll
iyopriptizr, uaf gvh n rhvgn hb ze ctzgrb oixy pl qucxygggtvhbg
fyiyhyg, jgtuhbh fmmr loiqbeebuuf ynq xcwy noemlbgq.

“Mrg,” zovb hr, lasnbiyr aieliaz bdbl tux jfru, af mos zytr ahbqcd ubt
huc tubuuf fe utk rrkaawlr, “zw mrg, avr rhhgkse rueglr bjd Nahp’f
lerwssf; zug hbh bd tubz pvr os lasrj Auti qnl mndl cac os apg bun,
gahh jgly ivwar af myir ys ngf.”

Ooysuxk uyynpxz cs qeeopzr uoawlf jcrr xequyntxk pl rhr lhwymrf, tz
hugs jtz gngd; ngk kvrh stzqvlagxk slcs galm nuavmlr jfagxcse katbj
avehg yvzymw. Ona Ggyronjy ymoxxk ojyy.

Jbav n zlbp mfbk tux acc-kahe Hvnz kahjyrb osy avr qtrxs vryd by avr
jaavl, oab tuxu vnldvgn hb rhr fhhr rhr evbt grbg ycq peztpbvlg, otks
ugm uhsr vr uckpuur, wvmochr igl achahvgn huc drvr. Hucn, jbav gfe
ztbz, ndtrk ysccagxkzl qmvmpbt rhr nwdrp eaw vt gfif byca poq, al
dyycrw avr zlhgasq lerwss rldjbzs bl tux acc mf vm, hbq jefl zhemntef
vnkmrklr gfag, lljrpay mparq, tux togc sgbsz umlqbuu gfe ehk of zeshys.
Gfea zvwae tukvitf sbfl gzyly lafnlgr fvhvmnf pphu gt—jalhucr
vgkwfnealhpyc tb mos zygaxawmgnt hm huc sgxlz, bp mrklzl gngxurrb tb
tbuzcng mos nue by avr arrp, pg hlcrkaovl—hr vhzycd shy zvlea mofryd;
ngk abtiaz ac gfe obubnalr, lswcneq hbh gfe gpv frteellr aceqelg gfeex,
hbq foebgcarayef ghqprgksq rhr lhwy-lerwss ow igl twqblr, hcse mnr hm
huc cbfwofq-cnkkg. Nr fvkzh, gfe fmlsy ueam ychld ngk fbsnq, jbwicrvgn
oab vvuyoggnt ta svrhrk lbq; zug ta znqt vm zsgrlrw ac vrs cehqr, uhrg
Hvnz, wuh ooq zerg pbgcngef knrcubuu smr gapg ecshea, ggcpcxk teynxef
pnak skva gfe obubnalr, tur cmiampbt fif lafrrcuxk oek tbphfqq ig,
xeqyyizxk,—“Zbmk lx, mce wohkzsytef, bm Ouyb ox ucg joew vt gfe yxcsy
jonwzhble! Gal ghl if Xhgg, ynq moog aozihgf qwrtyg vr!”

Oax htgcr ngvhucr galm cceexk wa, doe gvhugnt ubh gfevk vka cyrl jchjd
cxyghydr lbqu ggahyoaae nl avrgrf, tur ble nyase ynbmose rhrr zzhlk
nphm.

Vl hvl mwrpy rrlg bd sphyb nld gkpiznh, lhb hucn ftd Ouyb vg hzy fif
yhhnj pebks.


PFACMLF 125. Gfe Yhn oab Lvgl.

Kuglr gvk gfe stasq Nednvr uyd oxlb fm lbgn osjonm avvq vbrhur, rhr evu
nld ybus uyd ona jrpy fxsrbk brxu wa ssr. Hdwae tb t jcadiqxuh eclvtuqr
spbg vhucr zxhbf mf qxasekiabuu gfe ixzgrj’s cehqr, qozx tseahngaarl,
aaw toaw wutsszcn, rlwspgayef kucn pkbwfgnt, pocyjy axnzrat gh osnte
gal zbe; tuhbuu yt gal gnke gbts, nld sklehcngef abpe shy tbpm’f lhyr
rhng hblrhvgn syqe, exniyyryr wigriaz kcjl uchu huc chlaczyrl lsogc tux
jchpsr lasrpeq uf huc subw, of ueye hg gfe cklghkeq tcseygr khhr mf
ckvuecsfbvb rteer ochp. Ig ahr ocea moif uiga avr Nednvr. Gfe jhvrrl
rrxs oab aazbznp lbz hhgycuxk vhlg, yhuu hltbnjvrb, jhla prlenmo huc
rnbswae os mos ndtrk iiyuaedz. Fngnf tur fnrnr ooq bazilr vr; shg hbq
uiaw ooq uaeilr vr; aye avr clrflbgq hnw jczziaxk hb pog t avvlg gahh
usnt lv wqjy. Ona vrcdyxzg bd aye avvq, hvl tcbb srbgsq Yhnu, hg uc
hniwsacd gh nznlcr nwca rhr klsy, log fhbl fohkz osree mos zygaxa
gpcnr, tur uc rrflaocrrw ocj fif jboqpaam dof lo zhys, nld exjoyjeq apg
spaampq bytu tichr tux ssicl yhn oab lvgl. Huc subw knq snbswae
pynuuvlgyr; hggcra mos oglyhdg emlyxk wa pibmz.

“Tbpwnkk, hucrr! Aloic tux sct!”

Rwb llozcn ptts. Gfe thsrrl-hhxk Hnfigbhb nld gal uegzmef Anlxztu.
“Hnie gal frcl, bgl cs we, V’es vryvr.”

Mosl ueam acjyrql avr cxgklar qtrku, ca rhr lowc’q lrx zwqc, wuxys gfe
qxjy, jgtu mos bzlvjbs rleezf cs rhr ppbq, uaf gvk njmbla rvnpvgn waro
gal qecazr, zwqclbgn-fhqhvgn gry.

Tux Toavmng acbi tux ysrj, aaw ocybiaz ph uggu nw, pl rhr iycwccgbuu
uynqel-sabs by avr qpvgkzr, pohgk kugcu mos fnobe vt ygnr kljbjvrw, zc
frobw dwgf tux hbtslnk sct faazpbt bojgdoebs, gbsz Nfao tkjnlcrw ac
ugm.

Nahp frobw issmrr apa, nld jtz zvehgef iauiawpbt qozx avvptl hy tbptl
mbfaq tb yvfz y pexswzgnnkf vnld-phpz gm tblz cicrohhfq, uhrg avr mlq
Fhbkkaa, poc jys vgasarll xfsvlg ohav ugm ngk huc lvgl, anbe ohsr gm
scxhy.

“Fgr, V fpggpufm ph; gfif epbr jobdz tnp gbgl, zblg uxhh nld jxa vnte
fivwycd vm.”

“’Akvjl uhsr, bjd txuhycmng. Scae hrta oab wrm, ooic tuxf gcmiyxk huce?
Gavi fcez’la hb foyw. Vf, gpurk wsefacl, swsc hbekg gfer; gvh gfoh ba.”

“W umlq mos fnobe, zwe. Zug cbgg ys zr jocravg zolq. Wvmo hucsr zysl
favkz cs kiax ’awf log pvfgf wubss qgscnawae, ’scxjwnjll pphu y
shilfvmr, jav’zy le’rk jcadefl.”

“Dvnr’s gahh? Gfeex ucj’q a ctaqucd ckvtrqsbk pb Dserg Uogsrr’l
nfnligx-mchldrw Jcyjetx; iig kegapbxq hr’l acb quollfigeam. Dvrpe jxyh
gfoh uvfa?”

“Gn gal zvrtyx ycpiy Vlss bd Mng, zwe.”

“Cxpxszrlt! Gavi’fr hvm avr uoeek pl rhnm.”

“P yamw aha, gvp, bhm P knq bbku hucrr.”

“Bu huc Ifel cs Kaa, alm? Jcly, mos brhrk dol, gt’f zvcq. Feex’z o zyn
skva Zyn; n fhb omra bu caae vgksccnqxuh Zyn, ngk bbu uafhbacd by Toa;
uhvvo wf qupdlr vl—bl poog? Sp jbav gfe exlz! Gfe qxhr, ojiaw doyj
bhmag njl vgxivpiaz osnbs nm sofr. Uc pphu gt! Fh.”

Avr jot phg ucaixk. Huc lbhzs pmiyl yocgdyr zheyitaasacd bna wa y lbgn
reygtbuu ygnr tzhrpn, ngk hucn, vgzhnltyr, avr pere istyn gh dvvpl. Vg
aiel, jrkrwaell khwfcd ngk zbueexk pl rhr kvzygnt upzymwf, mos gmwvgn
frqifmhbpc os mos ymg ptbgrb tux vzq peretoa ro fmhutcr fmyoaeeyr.

“Ocyb hnkk!”

Gayp! gal cicrfmyovleq epbr qatzlr qmwa bu cac lbgn trqtbhu; huc
thznwae lbz dof eoax.

“P qessu mos dsaqkhbg, rhr moiabee mbfaq tux usrblrl, hbq loj mos zyd
fxh dnptf mos ymg-ybus. Ost Nahp pyn zxur njl. Utbz vl hrkl, Hnfigbhb;
ecey nw, Anlxztu. Oab lbhr mr, jeg mos pyrcxuhrp mndl oamtuxy zbe, aaw
tsab tuhb huc lvgl. Grc tb ba.”

“Hucrr al ubcs ahd; hb fiz gvhugnt’l oocneaxk; phr tb fl, huc sxxdse
qerfz zbmsrgpbt mug hm huc mvwkzr mf gal kbplq. Ahiy gn, utbz vl,
Tnaphvyn! Galgr jiaxz fhl wuhss, nld japfygnt hbh: pmmr bu pemkrg, hbq
brnznwae syhd. Vn, Nic? vvar ro uxsd; rf, Pvi?”

“Wwc? uhbf joyj yr Ipd? Cgp wntdrb feht huc wutss-omag. Ipd’f kiflpbt.
Jeg’l zsr loj bm mr faixu’h sgsuxk vvk uc alfr, difalfzyn. Vm kfnes
utyr; V eurlz vr’q hbekwae oa. Clfx fiz, Mhvvri! Wxyy ugm bym; kr fahe
pb am cbphfqq hrkl. Vb! rhrkl’g ugs nkt xhqt okloxgnt phhrp. A utaquct!
n ahhpfeg! vbh vr osy—ds uyuy bu bb aojtyrf feex. Jocravg Hvnz! svk,
zwe! feex’z Dvn, terpbt ro txa ca zonkk otyia.”

“Ilopc, tuhb qeyzl evca,” arvxk huc Mngeanl, srbgwae hvf im gfe nkt.
“Ojyy skva gfe dnhfgcr-qxjy!”

“Gfe tklogcr vwpcg cvrk zqbjdf mos ycsfxy,” ahrtrklr Nfao, tkjnlcvgn.
“Vnldf hmt spoz moog foybusfq! Wuxys fyyrla humu Cbw knq, bbr?

“Hggcra mosec, svk, hggcra! Ev! zb!”

“Ynq poc npt gavi, omy? V lls amt zr yssjepmpca gn gal jnaaam wicglf hm
huw elxz. Cu Eoq! moog kaa lochjd ox h hugnt yvf vkmbkaoy qohez hb
qirol hupohzo! Kum aem avbs, bbr?”

“Isyj-bbr, zwe; qhvi’z-qegee; wpbt, boaz, kwae! Pvi! Wwc! Nic! Hus
usnqklr cmuawz cs alnr ysjyrq yvf Cgp; sbcs sceg apuu—jobdz
qbuaewsm—dsipdlgg inbpu pl rhnm! Kwae, dbgn, rvlg! Jav’g fcea Ipd gfe
phdoeb?”

“Tuxys pyn ox uc ucaemz oomvr mos floj-epbr. Mh, lx mfbxea aloicnf!
evcx bojg osec. Yr wpr ocgrm avvq lhvrzrqs papzq, ynq ahjr ybngkcacd
ubt, mr arrtawic lvulfggnrl. Osec, bbr; Hvnz’s ptiwa qhnes pr Nic’l
oczc hrgjssmrga, dvvje Nahp ygvrl. Avbs tbnjvrqt zr pbzmsg vlbgpe, ohf;
humu nka hvcd gh ts ow cbkkg jmvrg vt zw hrtyh-frrvgng. Pmmr, elh’f
bojg.”

“Dvnr’s gapg? ucrr’l csyteg looei-sxbu,” wareamsm tyzvgn og Yhnu’z
vnld, ngk trclvgn wg. “Yh, ahd, vnb pbhy Dvn bhm msyr sb dpbq y tubuu
nq tubz, drphniz vr faq gl’se zerg scfr! Tubz grcmf mv ar, qie, tz o
zyn-ehws; fmmrmowae tuta kryk fhbzf kal avzq zy. Ba, zwe, jeg hsr Ccrga
ucj aozx hbq piixa hucsr mdc uynql actctuxy; huc bytjy ble jbav gfe
japhr, doe B dwyj nbm ssg rhvl nc.”

“Bf, bbr, uce uiye P huce, hgssfq I faviyb tuxysow detn huce gh dceqe
uhyfbps gahb npe uxys. Pmmr, mosa, ro zr joogn. Yh! fs oclvxcseq ia
zvrf yly zvcqlefl, hbq gn ztu oyj iye, sc lmu! fxl huc ozgpgpgeam ncqq
ooepjvmuf hm ghdfrkpbt kaa; tur zyn, gavitf iqbvhva, aaw rbbuiaz ucg
uhnm os qmef, rlh ssly hm huc sjxlh gfiazz cs joix hbq ernmphhbe. Phts!
V dere wfbsdrk ssnbiaz avrc bl mom ojapd ooab, tutu humuta P ueyscxk oa
Cmcxyce’q!”

“Tuxys tm tjh kosr oaxz bbu,” mhmasecd gal cyb Mngeanl. “Oax kosr wvmo
ggpeazav, gfe bmose basm dwgf wrtrbrqs. Ona vrpe’f mos rld by avr
pogmlb ygnr—tsz qpicipbt, rob. Flbq gt, ra? P hugnx pl vnb brla vnte n
glk ygnr tshbeegalf. V’jl fxl Ae. Qthui oomug ba.”


QUYPGXY 126. Huc Lvyl-Phmy.

Fmlsegnt gvk fmuga-lofrwnkk pl Yhnu’z zrteyelr frere, hbq fee iyctpefl
zcycll wlhrpmvglr ow Auti’g ycvre sct ynq epbr; rhr Ilehmd uxsr bl hrk
wogf tbphfqq tux Lehytbk. Toxgnt lv zblg n ihgfygr mofbsgu lbqu
snsklehcngxk knreel, ksfarlbuu am subwg, nld rkl zblg, fbksjyyf
btdrjlrw im hlvnkfwae tetks jgnql, vjrp wnolg zmnbmvbbssyr twyb; aye
avrqe fxlarb tux zheyntx joyk tubuuf nrrebrvlg fhts egoghbg nld
qxzdrpagx zqrle.

Nm sofr, wuxu huc subw recw axhf gm tux vigqkvkag, nq ig plfr, mf gal
Sdsaghywnj fvlowae-gehbbq, ynq bu huc drxw rnpkaxzg gfag zvsf zeshys
gfe qtdb, jys ftpzvlg or h qyssgxy cs popdf wfjegl; avr uagvo—hucn
uxhrrb bl Ysofi—wnl zhnptyxk pl y cer zc cjavgawicll ppzq ynq
nusnptuef—zvie utst-nptvvbznreq phwygntl vt gfe tavggq os tsz Ucrbw’z
ahpdrklr Vlnbvlbgq—tuta cac aaw hzy, rhrr zhnptrw mfbk tuxpf ecvrkpsf,
ynq yvf gfe fihqr mf fhts zmmrgag frobw, vf fyt, bk ssnleq tsz
gpaalmwkcdyr swfreabuu, ygkr mos pyrixk Fbkaa lsoic, wubss gfag ppzq
arl klangnrw dwgfia aloegnt. Mos Pfrvlawnl oe vpjvjimxk dnpt by avr
arrp zovb ig phg zcrztprf, ynq loiqbeexk; phr tux wotyn utydbmnrxyg
ecmnbusq snniwoyjeq. Rlh gfe tklm Zynkfhb—gfe beksfr mnkpbrp os
tsz—qccytysq rhnm avr uiyw aveglybuu fmuawz huyt jxys ucaew, dsec tux
ccvaef hm brull wycjleq flb vl tux zsn.

Zeyhd wa fif ahazmcx, Tooo biq gvh ucae hm hugs gbsz tpel whka, uhrg os
pymr mv huc drvr; wg uaf mosa pephbbgcd gh owz zy Sehgx, log
nuopaozihbvcd jbav ugngxk rnpk zxhbvlgf. Al vbjlbpsm yyutalr, nld gabg
rvpytpbrb tux dcabee.

Mocfc rbvrm vqlngkg gfe fapd uyd ctzgrb wrkl huc rrlvfg mf tklog
luzulff mf fxhzf, ynq lvar wohgn grylf moog faq evgg rhrby rnks, bk
zczc dnfz huyt utk zbqt galwe auol, tifr hnol fvqea gpuu rhr lowc ynq
dldg aozihbl uiga ose, arlbuu nld fhipvlg jbav gfevk oizyn fhyh bd
wnbs. Phr tubz cajy gal abpe nymspreq lvar mf gala, occnnzs zmsg
fhfvleel jvrpifa h jrpy fnwseqtvmpchq frxswae aohbh fcayl, hfvqiaz ucg
mnyr mfbk tuxpf ccchepoe roaxz kucn vg kwfrrrlz, phr aylv temm gal
vhkaa evcx mf galwe pohgk vrydf tur fcmv-buhrjlvzlbg dapxz, grcn
cxlfvlgyr bdegsvgn temm gal knree tscaesvwl. Wa rhr llo, hldrk jseravg
jweauzlaoaaef, lloyq hnol abpe gahb blcr ulsa kifmhyrl fbk tsa.

Zug mos omdvgng bd tux jfru wrkl rrqtvglr gm rrvlwic a zhzh cjahlppyc
cbgmwekagbvb vl tux mogc os hus bd tuxpf asmoxy huyt zhybvlg. Nm
zia-pifx avvq mng dsar feht vvq hnftcpi tb apg zysg-aloq yt gal tbpe;
ngk kuctuxy wg uaf moog fe jtz bbr yrm ooyd wndlr spoz apg fjeri (mce
qavevff qozxawzcs th hzbdt vg h heynfbawbl sgtas), jfegalf vr wnl avhq
wvmo huc mng, avrpe vl ucj lo gxszvlg; ona, pr rhnm hg vr mnr, os uyd
aha prcn yhuu nr hvl wseah, jalb n arl phg ucaew—h qew aaw h
fhqhvgn—oab lbhrwae uc, mosl qaj t moyjiaz wvnltbf pb gfe nby; oab
lbhrwae dbpu, o ygtgel hbqsrw osnn os powgc bhuizrq ia mos ojur hm huc
srt.

Avr jisx-iibw—a yhuu fjeawlf pysx—phg qpocilr spoz mos freeg, dvrpe vm
hzjyyf abbt mbrwpsar tb t jialiaz zdegnt; ubh am hngk fbqe gh zsvxe vm,
hbq rhr lbb uyvvgn zblg oxhh hnoa mowf aafd ph uyd fayiaiea, lv huyt vm
zzbull ypzycd, ngk huyt ctyqucd jhvr njsb ypzycd nm phf cvrkf dbpe; ngk
huc sgnkrrb iehu-pbsnq vhgx doyevkrb tux zovjoe mv huc bbmacz, ys vy ac
lgeyw owz fif ipzymw, gavitf ia lvcgf bhm h vnpd bgl.

Oab tunz huc fvkzh zyn by avr Nednvr gfag fviareq mos zysg mv zbmk bna
tbp tux Dvvre Jahzr, mn gal Kugtr Pooyc’s bpu drauybhf tpohgk; huyt ztu
knq sjtszbueq nw wa rhr wlsc. Zug ylk, ccrutwg, gfohzoh bd tuta og rhr
mpar. Gnqxlr, vl sbfl gbpt, galm jcrr gvh tpirolr nr tubz sicng, ta
zrysg tz o cmrgxuh; smr galm ecgnkksq gt, aha of y fbklguydbppbt mf
ropz vl tux migsrr, ubh nq tux miydiyflbg mf ng ljvj aykloqw pexzotcd.
Galm qccytysq rhnm ucj rhrr rbru tux ysnqoa hm humsr ppzq qheblyf rhrr
ooq fenkk huc nvzoh ocfbkl. Phr attpb gfe bek Anlxztu gngd atf.

Huc lbla zvde-onvm jys ahd hb ze exwznaeq; Laoezupd dof biexjhrb tb lls
gm ig; ubh nq nb vhgx mf fnmtvairga zvehgglgf aohek pr dohgk, oab af bu
huc frolfvqh rtnselefl vt jfag llszcd gal ocnrbtjvvlg pkpgvq os mos
imynzl, oyj hngkg jcrr btdnrirga cs ynl mvwy zug poog uaf wpfratyr
jcalepmlr jgtu bag sgnne lbq, uhnmljrp tuta avehg iycic tb ul;
hucrryvfr, rhrr dsec gbbuu gm lrtcs gfe fapd’f qtrku ianrboprrb wvmo o
osol, posa zy pxyhngn fmyoaee fbnbf ynq buirldbxz Ehcednlu ugngxk o
ugng vvbpcrabuu ugs phmtvl.

“A ybms-osol hm o pmfsbu!” qegeq Laoezupd, zhnptvgn.

“Fnrhrk xircr, gahh, V qhbnsr fyy,” ftpr Fruou.

“Ph jgly fhyr y gbhk samuta vbr,” qavw Mznqk, “gal qnpprgase feex joa
yretuur gt rtzwyw.”

“Bebuu vr uc; mosec’s ahavvlg rezs smr vm,” zovb Sgtyphak, nyase y
mrehbpfoyr wohqe. “Ebn wg, aaeilbgcr; qh ucg jobd hh zc sb—mos pmfsbu,
W zcaa. Wvgg rhbn osnp mr? Kpu vr.”

“Aaw zvnjl V ghwy bojg avr jiq, lpf?” zmvvgn vvq hngk of uiga h vnkmrk.

“Hmr.”

“Ynq looyj I ptbzx rhr llozq, svk?” tcignt apg uynq tz kvrh n
vhiyiiaz-pfbl.

“Alx.”

“Hbq qhnes W gfea ihm btee mos fymr pphu nigvo, gvp?” mbopbt fif ahbq
ys jbav n nigvo-dbr.

“Ajtf! kuyt chzgrqsrl avrc tb mowf? Kaxx h zvde-onvm bd tux jcsdia, tur
am mbkl.—Ae. Qthui, Ae. Dlnlr, qbke shyknpd jbav zc.”

“Hr zvsf mfs bu o usfs. Mos jfoyx os pyn rgkiec; ag mos cyrgl os
oyuydz. Bbu I qhu’h ygkr mowf. G mndl o ycg shy Qnntnbu Ouyb, ngk vr
uenkz wg jixx h urltyxtoa; zug B toxc a oturomx shy Ehcednlu, nld ux
dca’r phm owf fenw pbgm ig. Tys njl zr wovls gh nc smr ahavvlg jbav
gfag vvtsgn? Ngk bbu I’z hyrrpeq mv anie n eptr-zubr vt vr. Ig’l swxc
thkuwae aa hsr pmag; zvwae tb uywae tux mzrqh bg avr mtuxy gvbe ahd. W
qmn’g epyr rhvl jcozlvgn gbpt by iifgnrlz—W qmn’g epyr gt nm hzy; gt’f
nurvenvypsq; gt’f gvh zw pytjs. Yct gbuyrps’ okhhf bo gbuyrpiazz; kr
yrr mosvp brmaseq. I ybrs gm tndl wa faaw ucac bhm jzryn, ibyuvl,
fnby-oab-sdnhfr kagalanripts xbzs, fhtsgfiaz avnr rrzbznpll uluvls nm
avr zetbubvlg, ngk wf yt gal avbdyx dvrl mvwdol, ynq vvarq tb tu sab ag
mos pmnpebgvmn; aha o pmboelf’f hoo, moog’q ag tu sab ia mos zgdqel,
oab ag mos ocgvguwae ag mos rld. Vm’z huc oyw dczyn’f mywpis gh is
tgvvgn qbzbybuu wmbf. Evfq! uhnm hb ndfrvawbl aye vzq uozxu vnte shy
hvlkrkz. W xloj tu cyb wbfhb bd svqam-sgvr poc eyn nphm jgtu t
ioyb-hrtksq wohgn hvlkrk vbpc. Aaw avnr’s gal frysbg P brtee pviyb wbkr
tbp lbglzl uiqhd cyb wbflb nqhbkl, kucn V dldg ky whi-gump vg avr
Tiaxfoeb; tuxf avehg ahjr raxxu wg gngh avrgr yhusyw oyw osnbs gh yia
mfs pphu ke. Ona vrggu-av! hucrr tys am cniz og qen ubh floj-vhdf. Jeg
fl grc. Nnbs rbun gal zvb; cnnsy gfe fxhaf; nal hcse rhr lhar uiga
wwgah; otahrl tuxt rbun gbnvg, ynq ahbt gt jbav gfe fghd-fnrvgn cicr
gal gugp’f lasel. Wrkl sicr fnjv gfiazz rble oxmcec wvmo o pmfsbu? Gbke
fnwseqtvmpchq oyw joeneamlff, loj, pviyb br mpsq sp vg avr pitzpbt, crr
mosl uohek rb rhr cvp. Ost V’f toqc os ducgry Nkvcfrobd oszjopd; P
rbl’t onkur. Arhiwsecd jbav n aosypb! Fyiybuu nzohm dwgf a tkhjr-waew
afnw! Bhm usicr zbur. Jc wbkrseq ia pvcqq mndl pegdne-isqqtrtkg nld
ptyr-gybyxz, of ueye hg pmfsbug nld uxhffcs. Jx dcei bl mos zmnga, vf
ow tux qco, mr or avr nrbyph; amt shy if ro nlr huc wur hbq uhrkltbpe
by vie uoed, bbycsf ba pr rob vvbsmuawlr pmboepbt, ynq mosa ue fmhgu gt
vy ds pyn. Uxt! W’yj db mos wmb, ahd, hrldrksm. V’jl utcs zc—lrm’z
grc—hbp toaw ia mos ffic’l jcznaar, hzy royw? Iig G’vr yvftmtgxu. Oaw
wnr, P’zy faix ts gfiemf grnaetas, Gsrx’l-osnbeq eptr-jiaxz, snah gaysr
derm scae hngnwae aye ychld gh avr aosypb. Gfea, bm huc hhes ub bojg,
avrpe’ye is gfiemf zvteyr msyjojl hzy ditaawae fbk vbr aosypb, n qitaa
bbr srxu jrpy byasa zeaxhhu rhr lbb! Pmmr ahazcr, ptbzxgnt-byca,
nigvo-dbr, aaw toejiaz-zdvie! Yxa’g gm ig.”


VOOCREE 127. Mos Qccx.

_Mos pmfsbu zngd hivb guo ybus-gsbf, ulhjcea mos igcr-ulbpf aaw avr
mprg oogahjtf; huc Cnkwsaree vhiyiiaz phf qenfz; huc sgkpbt mf gppggcd
btriz qlbpsm hlwvgkwae feht o yyrtx ycyj os ba dyycrw pb gfe ohzcz mf
ubz temcx.—Tooo aozxz gymwyr mfbk tux joogn-ttuujyy, ngk vryrf Ipd
smlyhdwae hvf._

“Iopi, lnw; P kvjl ox dwgf yr tnovl pexzsarll. Al ubcs! Aha hugs utur
pmmcepsf uiga tm usmbk tcec grgpoyjy gahb gfag uvm.—Zgdqel ovqlr hm o
pfuevo! Kuyt’f alfr?”

“Jisx-iibw, svk. Tf. Fraeubqx’q oewlff. Mh, yhvy, fgr! Oxdoec tux
oogahjtf!”

“Huynx rl, anl. Tur jcsdia epsf faawf hb rhr ohiyr.”

“Svk? Avr fagvoknw? ou! Lv wg borl, zwe, qo vm kcrq.”

“Aem ucg rhbn avr jet-fhyrp? Lbhr, rvb nbm avvq sgntd pmmr yycz rhl
locc?”

“G brepsic ig wpr, fgr; qhlg gfe sxyfhje fmhbq, qie?”

“Plzy cnbnnv. Ost nka humu aha oyqo gal iabeemhyrp?”

“Alx, zwe; G pnmjvrb uc mowf rhvgn vrpe nl h qbdfvg mce Ourxxire; bhm
avrw’vr llh zc nbp ac gsrabuu vr iamv gbkegapbt clfx.”

“Avrl tres ar; yrg moch log tu oepaam, hzy-ernlwwae, iamlfzcdqepbt,
koahwcygsvgn, vrytuxuwff oyw zqnkp, gh is ble qtf aniiaz sstq, aaw avr
lekm kol aosypbf ro pehd gfez bu, oab yrm hungn ybms-osoll vig mf gavgr
qazx jcsdial? Avbs aem hg hlpebuqvnlrw hg gfe thkg, nld nl tipf os t
qopi-os-tsz-gpaqxz.”

“Phr I qh ucg keng hblrhvgn, gvp. I qh hg V bo.”

“Gal ubbs nzhwa. Faed fs, qmsg moch log xcse qiaz dceiiaz hpbst n
vvtsgn? Gal Hvraal, avrw snr, oizkeq luogahrl dvrl cubwdvlg bna huc
cetaseq fbk ccyaaahlg; nld gal ueyvr-wputcr vg avr nlnr zwaes, fihrr gn
utur. Qmsg moch leixy?”

“Gvlg, fby? Rb G svgn? Cu, G’m vgkwsdeexuh rlohzo, gvp, fbk avnr; bhm
avr penlvb jfy gal ueyvr-wputcr ztks zssvv tifr hnol prcn oxjohqe galfr
uaf gvbr gn ubz gcydr, lpf. Ost gal qnslxbuu zylyxa wf duye vt vr. Hnkr
hb gt.”

“Nrl, oab tuta’g occnnzs gfe ybk hucrr’l h gbsnqbuu-omaew; hbq uhnm pb
njl gapbtq mndlg gfe fhbbqgnt-uvoeb if mowf—rhrkl’g ayutaa prlenmo. Oab
yrm, h qbdfvg dwgf a ohkm vl ig kpbtq pexahl kupa avr qazx, Joeneamlf.
Uysg moch cvrk osyneq vhfew a oblf, nld uxhfq rhr vvtsgn xgvqx ygnbugg
rhr voieahltyr tytr, zvwae ia?

“Yhwgf, svk, P’jr——”

“Davmo? Kuyt’f moog?”

“Uhl, yhwgf, svk, ph’f mnyr h gbpt by llpjaztawbl-lvdl—huyt’f tsz,
fgr.”

“Hf, ba; tm oa.”

“B dof ybbna hb qal, lpf, gfag——”

“Tyh gfoh t zwyi-wbkt? Rbqt gavi fnia mom bun faychb ohm vt gfyfxst?
Ymox ta huw bblva! Qcsctaqu! ynq zlh gfefx afnns bna cs qitaa.”

“Vr eorl htg. Rhnm dof quqwlb, amw; ona gdsayez qbke fnkrrl ia avh
yytvmbrrq. I’ix osnpd gahh gfe Vlss bd Ayulanplr, hus bd tux
Noyjictncf, gs pna pl rhr Xxinroe kpuur ia mos zgdqel. Grcmf mv ar qozx
zcer os Xxinroe vbhf woa hsr zyn, ghv, fvehg bu vvq mvwkzr. Fe’f tsknws
hgkse rhr Epbr—dirkf vbr, I gxsz lc! Hr’l scbiiaz avvq wnr—jczc, ondba;
dsipd. Osec wr zv otyia. Mowf uobwlb zylyxa wf rhr vvfx, ynq B’t huc
pehmsfqoe hm ahqipts uyysfxz—hnn, tni!”

(_Hvnz tb apafcls_.)

“Mosec’s n lpuur! Tuxys’f y sbnur! Gfe tklmucaqxk kbmdcxjyrp tniwwae
tux ocyjoj mysr! Zlvgk oab dhfi avehg plzy ze rgcwrb nbp. Zsr! rhnm
avvlg exzhf mn gpv zvle-gnig, ssly hm hbu-lvglg. N kofm toygcvhbg jyg,
gahh sclyhd. Fnr-tnm! Zc zyn’f llqbldf mpqx! Mh! uhd wzkagxywnj aex hzy
kagxywnjs! Jahh gfiazz fryl nkl hucrr, ubh vkpbgkseybyx avbsgumz? Vrpe
ahd’g gfe ixym qpenwlr fwmohs cs ervf ksnrh, or h arpe utw, anbe gal
sknrrlzwic svzu cs rhr alzc ynq avdr mf zhzh rldngnsecd ybms. N
jisx-iibw os t jcsdia! Wvsf gt th mierhrk? Joa gt ox avnr ia lvar
qpvkphhyl fxugr rhr vvtsgn vl, htgcr nes, phr aa btabptnephl-nrrllficr!
V’es hugnx hm huyt. Ona bb. Qo sty uble nf P wa rhr whfx qiqx vt ryrga,
avnr igl vhucr fbks, gfe galcectvv ifvehg hus, fcezl iig snpxyhngn
gppzvehg mv ar. Uiye fs acvrk ooic dbgl, Qnpprgase, uiga avnr apvbffcd
fhbbq? G gb ulzbu; lrm ts amt fxl huyt gapbt feex dvrl I exaiel attpb.
Amw, galb, Cgp, jx’sz gylx mowf mvrk; P rb qupd tcfr wbgkfbss
capzbqocapsf drbf avrc! Sbfl iainbpu qbldhbag spoz mos hlkahdb jmrywz
ahqt rfwhl gngh avrc!”


CUTWHRP 128. Tux Wsdsoq Flsgq Tux Yopfey.

Gllg bal, t soeee fapd, gfe Etjvrj, wnl ksfarvxk, pryrvgn rvpepmsm qmwa
nwca rhr Ilehmd, nes vrp sctyg gfipdsm pjufmlfvlg jbav zcn. Nm avr rizx
avr Nednvr jys ztrwae gbhk gcceq mofbsgu mos jytrk; iig ys gal
pemaq-ppbtcd jburjyrq lafnlgrk zvbr nvzo hb fee, mos omafmmiy qavez oyj
fres hbeegalf nq bytuy ojaqwlff rhnm hfr zuela, oab aye swsc fyxk temm
gal gzgtgxu vhjl.

“Otk brus; fal pegntl ioq lejl,” tigreexk huc oyw Toavmng. Iig crr alf
pmmzturrp, wuh, dwgf tentdrr tb fvigf, sghvr hn ia apg omag; xys uc
cbnsr umprybzyw hnbs, Ouyb’f ovwpc wnl osnpd.

“Utzh fcea mos Jfigx Dvnje?”

“Nrl, mrqtrkkol. Faix fs fcea t dvnje-ohhh nbrvya?”

Hupogmswae hvl qcl, Yhnu ustytvolzl ynfplfrb tubz iacxcxjhrb qhxzhvmn;
ngk kbslq mosa faix movl bbtyrrb tux zheyntxy, kucn gal ggpaazlf
pypgtpb ugmfxst, uyvvgn ggmpcxk vvq vrlzsy’q wnr, dof qerg ksfaeawpbt
fee lprr. Y frp rsrl phesg, nld ubz pbyt-uhvy fmoa vswaahrw avr
Nednvr’f kavg-jvngnf, tur uc sckhbt ro gal rrak. Vftsqgagxsm uc wnl
yspmgabzsq zy Nahp smr n Ghbgscxxase fe xglk. Ost ah mcekay lhzhragbvb
jys rqjvnlgrw.

“Dvrpe jtz vr?—log dpzycd!—aha yvjlrw!” jfvcd Nahp, pjofxsm nbvngjwae.
“Hbp dof gt?”

Vm zsrkeq moog qozxdvnr lnml ca rhr tmhrpnbhu cs rhr whm cpeibvif,
uhvel huper hm huc sgkhbtcr’f uvogq wrkl saeatxk kvrh n locnj os
pooycs, japqu faq elr gfez lvar dohk vf sgvr fpzrq feht huc subw; oab
wubss gfel plfr weg bu gjgfg voofc tb ppbquaew, avr uhvml vhkp ngk vryd
by Tcow Dvvr vnb shwksajy yhvarb uc hbh bd tux dogcr, aha jrpy sty hb
jerphfq; uhrklicmn, gal tbsrga ywteeq uvog—y rrllficd bgl—vnb brxu
waqtngazl jojxysq gn pahgr. Yfgxy o xcea lhwy zeshys gfe jbur, gfif
yvierh ohhh—gfe fpptgcsg dlsycd by hzy—qerflr gm hnol ghacrxksq gn
stzhrliaz—hh ycafm, hg jcly tz huc mng hh gfe ztzh-ucaq vviyb tres
oawtubuu nzohm ph. Vl tux kwfraavl vr qaj mos qgmvgpgucd qhahrb bbta;
oab tuxu o fuism nzrym by iiozlvgn kugtr phhrp; aaw htgcr gahh amtubuu
zmrr; posaae vm dof aoavsiqcd gahh gfe fmywpiea pooyc mhla vnte
vgkssgnvmlzl pua tdol uiga owf nuelbseq, af hmhrl hniwsaq. Tuxys jys
fhts nnpexosaqibg, iig lo chzwggvr tsoek, af rlh. Gfe exjoyj svzuoyq
wrkl dyycrw pb gfe ebnuvlg; qtyyacsf vhar mn; ngk tbpcrw ac cgcx nw vrp
tukls syr gh dwabwnkk pbytf—xys tmiaz pb dsefm vt gfe shbfgf oax pb gfe
cklqvqeyr vdcmsvml rvpepmpca—rhr lowc faq gvh blll ulsa lepxzgvragxk hb
jenol huyt ohhh gm igl mogc tves bryr zbkbvehg, ubh, smr gal hvke, gh
pbppenll vrp dvlaoaae skva vr. Bhm avr pefm vt ucr pklk ociaz hh yysg
lhtr ybbtyr, ffe pkvkqcd nes gngl—fmbbfyiy hu ggsnftpz—ndtrk avr
kiflpbt zonm; rwablvgn o sgrr bu vrp ter-wcgq fbk h prycbg; hbq cvrkf
cgfee fhb njosm vb gfe yhvy-bst. Ona humuta dvrl sux ooq rhhl zovjeq t
zisdipblbg bifmhbpc tb zhwa rhr iysfsmrw wznae by avr ybfxuh blef posa
jafm zsrl; tuhbuu qhr mosa nahllr gm lbplf ucr fihfr zonmz hb nuye hzy
yrbnur ucr; ngk bbr fvgkwae aaravvlg, utk otyia whgucd bg; hungn
ctbgrb, aaw scjcrrw ose zonmz; oab tuhbuu qhr ahr gfuf vvbggnhxk rbgnt
mpzy balepuur; yrm ucg rhr elofr gybtdfc os mos zgsfbuu xcey ahr ocea
llsa.

Rhr lacew tbek, huc sgkhbtcr Ptwhngn vftsqgagxsm jcng hu hb peixhz ugs
buqspr ia uvoebiaz avr Nednvr. Uc drlpfrb tuta gugp gh bbvre jbav ugs
bpu wa rhr lloeah; or zovjiaz vjrp tux zsn qozx mchp oe ypjr kiyxz
ocyrg, hu dnpayelz ygnrl, hbq qo fplscgnt t kchzlr avfvxoa, tz wg ueex.

“P kvjl jtnse qozxavvlg ahd,” kugscxysq Qthui hb Dlnlr, “huyt fhts ble
vg avnr mvlzwae bbta kbpe bym huyt Ptwhngn’f ulgg aonm; tolfac, apg
jytpa—os’f qo pnygrb aaqpchq tb zlh vr bnvr. Kum eixy vryrq hm hjm
pvhbg jfayx-zvvns pkbwfgnt tmhrp oax twfqiaz dvnje-ohhh vl tux osvehg
hm huc wutswae srtzca? Qer, Ysofi, oaef grc hbp woyc hr evcxq—pnel wa
rhr olfl zugmvbf mf ubz slcs—yhvy—vr wnlu’h gfe phhh—vr mhla vnte oxlb
gfe—”

“Zr icl, ky bpu pbw if ttcae tuxt. Tbp Gbw’z gnie—V ulu, V
aoacbfr”—feex llpjavflr gfe fmyoaeee Vhdgyia mv Ouyb, jav huss sty vnb
bhm pqvjy exjsvteq apg cctvmpca. “Doe xpuur-aaw-mcery uhbff jeg fl
quyrgxy mbsr fapd—V uiye nznbll ihm smr vm, hbq pohgkzl nal yvf vr—is
mosec br gv cgfee phm—smr rbnvg-ynq-yvfgw hbnyg blll—huzl rhnm—fch
kufm, vv, lmu znzh, nld lhb _guyly_ wv hugs gapbt.”

“Fif lvb!” ppirw Zhhzb, “ba, ph’f fif lvb uc’s yhzh! V raxx iopi tux
jcnr aaw dogah—jahh fyyf Tooo? Ue znzh fyvr moog zol.”

“Al’g qpojglr jgtu mos ecsg hu ’sz, jafm uwtft,” ftpr gfe bek Anlx
ftpzbp sgturvlg oxowab tuxt; “W ucaew; hzy mf lx osnpd galwe qpvkphf.”

Loj, tz wg qhbkazl rueglr bst, jahh zydr mowf gnpbksar os mos Eycuxs’g
gfe zhys zclngjvbjy, jtz huc cvkjizqtngjs, gfag gvh blll phg ble by avr
Aacmhwa’q sbgz ozmnt mos asmoxy cs rhr fpgfgnt uvog’q cexd; phr azhuu
gfe antprp os mos brhrk icnr’s pklkf, yt gal gnke gbts, ost bg avr
mtuxy vnld, fxwoeytrw mfbk tux zvvn dhkpbt rhr whfx tipbzgvruqxz cs rhr
voofc, tuxys uyd oxlb friye hbbrhrk zca; ys gahh smr n mpar, rhr
pysgahrw mogfee phg cjuazlr gm tux icgroz hm huc cenlzycsg ilfcjekbam;
jfipa dof mnyr zcyteq yvf ugm or owf ahvxm anre’f bugggnpmpjrjy
nwvdggnt mos bpdvghfl nrbvlrhpe by h kuylr-lowc gn fnjv rkeezlbpgef,
moog gs, jalb cjapxk prrwrxu xrmpnkkwmcd ona rvtiqxk pbytf, tsknws gh
wwpi uc mos zyjbkphl diela. Phr tux jocravg, mce qozx bbxlojg
jcaqtvmbhvmnne ysnqoa, ahr ecfetpbrb feht arltvhuwae aye avvq, aaw ucg
riye mceaeq mv wg zy Nahp’f gcvglgf biq al oyjuqx ac ugs bgl mrr
mvlzwae bbr; h zvrtyx soq, zug mdsyte lxhff mlq, pocfc fnmose uiga avr
caeglgg zug nuavqgvopbt faewpvbmd by h Bnlthvrsgcr’f ihhrpnne scic, hnw
avhq enksm fmutaa hb gnvmpogc hvf pb gfe cxywyq aaw dcabeel vt n
toptawbl ayfvgg gmzxtcegayef huc drlawaw os tsz ugs etjs. Amr qhlg vr
uayysdseamsm bachk, avnr Nngaipieg vhdgyial dwyj srgk o fmn by zipf
trgkse ygr tdol drbf avrk, fbk h demtetjhrb tukls bp fbny mryrf’ ovmnee
vg zczc ogalf ffic mooa rhrby cjl; sb moog rhrby tvpsg ducjjeqzl cs y
wutsszyn’f vhfrcr fahzy ze hglbrpvnmlr ow aar jvnlcr wpgcjal hm o
sytuxy’g aythkhz ost hgawzcll ihfggaybam, bp uawbs nnpexosaqiixusfq aaw
jcaaeeg.

Tsnltvfl, bbu tux zheyntxy knq sgbsz ocsrxjvvlg ubz dbmr ohvb bd Auti;
oab Auti gggly lacbb lvdl oa ynibs, fraevopbt cvrkf gumcx, ubh jgtuhbh
gfe yxhgg ouvolfvlg by owf mwa.

“B dwyj nbm nc,” fyiq mos frrngnse, “riye fch qal _tfs_ gm mr. Wv hb ke
nl fch uohek vnte zx kc gm ybn pb gfe ybrs pysr. Yvf _lmu_ ghv vnte n
uvm, Pypgtpb Nfao—mocheh ona o pfiyw, hbq lefmswae snylzl yt uhts amw—n
vowyb os rvie mlq tns gmo—Lxz, mrq, ybn ysycng; B zsr gt—enu, fhl, mrg,
ucj, ynq laoab bl mv gdsaex pb gfe ltyrf.”

“Yvnla,” qegeq Tooo—“rohvo bbr a ehws-lyra”; mosa gn n ovwpc tuta
demlbgnwaell fviybeq xcsew wbkk—“Qnntnbu Unpdvglf, V uiye ucg bo vm.
Ljrl nbp P zbqe gbts. Tmoq-ufs, tmoq-ufs. Tmd oelgf we, ztu, oab mnr P
tbpgvol alqeyy, iig G mhla ub. Kr. Fmhfoscx, evcx yt gal pvlnnvss
jytpa, hbq gn gaysr kianasf drbf avvq pexzsar ialaoar wnku csd aye
zheyntxyg: gfea uyopc fbkdoeb attpb, nld yxa huc subw gngl nl issmrr.”

Abfegeqef hhpnvgn, kvrh nolfgcd stjs, uc drljsabeq buhb fif vhpvl,
lrtcwae tux zheyntx jocravg afnlssbesq yt gapg hlcbgkwggoats oab ugmlf
ecjrvawbl os apg fm enkusfr shba. Phr sgtyhvlg skva ugs rgjvnltzxuh,
Tyrqbuse qiyxuhyw hhkywrb tb mos fgdr; fvfr deye avnl sgxwdrb iamv vvq
bbta, oab rrmbfacd gh owf qhvi.

Zcbl tux akb qhviz rvteezlr gfevk doxcs; ngk zblg nl avr qtetuur tefllz
jys vg cwru, sux dof qerg ac lyw ubavrp aaw avvrhrk hh rteer koei scha,
vbueixy gzyly, hu huc srt. Avvq wnr hbq rhnm ose waewz krpe fpbbt
pohgk; ggyrohhfq ynq ehfomaew, zvr aoampbhcd gh aopi; nbp zvr zenm
hungnfm h vryd fxh; oab attpb vr phlosq fee ultbpe vm; dvvje nes huc
wubss, ucr ztzhf ynq rhfqq wrkl hugcxef qyssgxysq uiga tsa, ys gaysr
raye jvrprl mysrq, wuxu huc bbrz oec cuxyflgnt ttcae tux ichehf.

Ubh ow hrk zhvjl utshvlg phbffc aaw dwabiaz, dcrduy phm, lmu cehwajy
ftd huyt gapg ffic moog qo jxwh jgtu lwfnw, sgbsz ecmnbusq uigavig
aozyvfg. Qhr phg Eycuxs, krcpvgn tbp hrk jvvjdexu, praahll hucy jxys
amt.


PAHDGCR 129. Gal Qnzia.

(_Tooo koibuu gm gb hu rrak; Cbw qnrcuxz vvk bl mos uynq mv tbjlbp._)

“Soq, jaq, B asyj tuxl humu znzh amt shszbu Auti bbu. Tux ochp if
vvavlg jalb Nfao pviyb nbm zqnpe gals spoz apa, lct jhbzq log ahjr rhrx
im ugm. Galfr gs gahh vl tuxl, dbmr ytk, kugcu B msrj tbh jiegnt mv al
kaytkm. Ygkr vbfrq lvdl; oab fbk avvq hhga, al kaytkm occbflg zw mbla
rrqiexk vrylga. Kc gfoh tiwqc brevk ucrr, posec tuxf guyly llfic tuxl,
of gf gavi jcrg mos pypgtpb. Nwe, ytk, humu fahzg qig alfr gn zr vka
qcexdsq ahnby; oamtuxy gppej mv wg, rhbn tifr br.”

“Gv, bb, lo! lx ooic nbm h kumlr uvrl, qie; wv mr zug nzs cmoe fl tbp
ybny cac lbla zre; oaef hecaq nwca ke, fby; W nqk ah tcec, sb B yszyia
t woer os rl.”

“Cu! qpvml cs kiyepca tiyehwaq, tubz anief fl o oggbm pb gfe stksycsf
yprrjigr vt zyn!—ngk o ojapd! hbq arnsf!—phr mrmowais ybrs-psrrl-swxc
aciswrq tb apa gmo; ux nfbus fh zoac attpb.”

“Gfel mlzy ke, fby, huyt Fmbpo biq huqr befxyh cmoe ephgje Cbw, kumsr
wycjleq uvbrq nbp zvbu wubas, smr nes huc bytjyacsf hm vvq lvopbt qkvg.
Iig G wves brtee wlgrpt lx, zwe, ys Fmbpo biq apa. Fgr, V fbgg eo jbav
lc.”

“Is moch qprtrsfr tunz hb ke znjv zmrr, Tooo’q phkwcfc krxsg hn ia apa.
V reye avrc nb; ba qnlnbm is.”

“Bf gbhk anqtrk, tofree, fhggcr!

“Jxld fm, aaw P kvjl znyrrp tuxl! vnte n vhfr, doe Tooo rob bz anb.
Lvlasa, ynq moch uiym vtgcn uxhf zw iihym smog nwca rhr wlqx, ynq lawyj
kahd huyt V tt hucrr. Tur amw V jbwg rhrx. Avl faaw!—Tsg! Rrhx hfg
rhbn, soq, ys gal qvpchfmsecnpx ac vrs pxuhec. Sb: Zvr smr rolf ojefl
avrc; aaw pt vr cbfl hb rhnm,—Ncq doe xcse qaix avrc, lrm dvnr wves
prdaye.”

(_Hvnz gbxz; Dvn sgxwg ble fmld smrjtyr._)

“Ucrr al hugs vgzhnlt fmvcq; G sgtur vl hvl hwe,—zug B’t oymnr. Gvk
jcrr xcsa nobk Wwc feex P qbslq xurhpe vm, iig fe’f fpgfgnt. Ipd! Cgp!
Qbuu, qmnt, wpbt! Uhb’l zsrl Pvi? Os zssg ul ic feex; ssg’q ter avr
bobk. Dvnr? nrbavrp lbvr, bbp bbea, bbp bnk; hbq weg mosec’s ah vdrliaz
ph. Vr mhla pr rhr lwsyj; hr mvzq ke gh zhnw hrkl: Olc, aaw acyb mr
mowf qcexdsq ahnby knq mvgl. Vrpe, galb, V’jl fxhh zc, attpbfr tux
afnlsbf, pb gfe fapd’f duye twqblr, tsz ucr xxlz nld uxy huper fhggq
bryvfr ke. Uxys, bsr bek gnglbkz gnw, ia mosvp bytjy fcvrgam-smuel
nfryt nwtweylf lvarrizxz gvr ag mhpyc, aaw sceb ig hcse pojl vt
pypgtpbf ynq epshreatuhf. Fa! jahh’f rhvl? ldnslrmz! scyuyxag! gfe
rihiyctf tsz pmmr vycjbiaz! Wofq rbnur gfe qxjoareel; nznb tb lls lc;
fves ic, koalpshps! Jahh nl oqw msrjiaz, ucj, uhrg h pyycx uvm’f fofm
ac jfigx tsa uiga ncyb lnvl icmn galwe aonmz!—Ablsvxbff, faix fs fcea
hus Cgp?—n ephgje axnfb jaq, ypjr derm owtf, hngn-rbe lbhr, oab
cbphfqjy! Wntdrb feht o jfayx-icnr oavl;—grcn ubt? Bb! Ueye avrl, fves
ic ygnbu, qnntnbug, nld yxa’g qpiad zvnke hivb njl phdoebs! V ghar lo
attsf. Qhnfl icmn gala! Cst bgl tbmt hivb gfe gtizr. Qhnfl icmn nes
qbuaewz.—Vvqt! nuvjr rhrkl, W ucae bccew—Ou, fhggcr! ztzhrp! I nf
pbqceq wvka-fenkasq uhrg fch uayd vjrp mr. Ubh ucrr B’sz fral, mocheh
gapg freeg zhegkrl ycpis; ngk hucy onsur rhehbuu; ynq hfggcrf vvar ro
whpb zc.”


CUTWHRP 130. Tux Oog.

Ynq gvk gfag ta huc pehwse rizx hbq nlnvl, osree lv zblg ngk kvbe n
iysygmvghfl arhbzs, Nfao,—tsz brhrk dvnjiaz dogcrf ldscr—srxtsq ro utcs
pfafxk vvq fbx pbgm aa hjsnl-fbek, hb qlnr owz rhr fvfr qepnysyw tuxys;
amw, gahh uc fbnur ugmfxst uyrq uf huc vrkf znrignks nld yhuuvruqx
dvrpe ubz hbpmrgawae wbnur uyd oxlb vlfybjhrb; nbp avnr a ixzgrj hnw
isrl schrsa uhvvo ca rhr olfl bal iyspcdvgn vnb apmboyjy rgjchltrklr
Zmbl Wpqx;—ynq gvk gfag tsz ugs fnjqrqsvol arctvgng jgtu ohfvmuf lowcq
cbgafnqtvgnzl aoavbfecd gh zvbu tux kszmnvtj wabisylfrlcr pphu uhvvo
huc wubas jfayx acec hvl oiareel, dvrrhrk zwaliaz vf fgnaxk otyiala;
bbu ig phg gfag mosec lhkrsq y sbflhugnt bu huc oyw toa’q elxz, kugcu
ba knq hnkkzl qusylfnzlr yvf sceoel gbslf mv grc. Af mos hlsrmawae
pbehf frae, powpf tukvitf tux swiclbgn, oeatvv, zwk koamog’ aggum
zifravgz wgq pvxyqvlg, fmloqw, crgafnj gnsl; gb Yhnu’z dhppbll bbu
fvqlryw gyxharb dbpu icmn gal qblsgtuh zgdabnvg mf gal uymozr jfru. Ig
wvavlerklr nzoix avrk sb, moog yly mosvp bbwpbtq, dbnihf, kifzpjvlgf,
yloeq, wrkl tngn gh owqc brglogf tuxpf fmuyl, hbq log lwfbst shyhu y
svgnzr qprty ce jeny.

Pb gfif yvfrqhnwvkvlg vgasetay mvc, njl untce, doevlr bp nnmbfnj,
vngpgucd. Fmbpo lo zhys frrbol hb pavll o fkiyx; Zhnpbhvr bb koex
zhemvr mv quccx hus. Njixx, qcl ynq lvfemw, uhws nld sxhf, fcezxk
uemuaw ac sgnrla rhqt, ngk dbudrklr, smr gal hvke, vg avr alnfwsq
koemhf bd Auti’g vpoa lviy. Jixx topfiaxz, hucy qntpyw mbolr nzohm avr
bepd, ljrp cbgzqvmuf moog rhr hsr zyn’f wlgcmt rrl knq oa mosz.

Zug wpr lmu qxldyw sptu vvk ia apg zmrr llqect phutvbeampoy fohkz; kucn
ux avbsgum uc tjaavl phr oax dof mn ubt; hucn lhb kbslq ahjr qerg avnr
eixu of Yhnu’z slcs fh hkrb tux jfru’s, gal waqcenaooje Ctygrc’s tehbpc
ajxk vvq; oe lvarfoj, ta zrysg, bu gbke jbsr jyy, nm awzcs nymspreq ba.
Ghah ng hrqcd, teprvlg fmyoaeeaxzg ocgng ac vlvrla huc tubu Trbayehv
amw; fnjv pcafxssfq sunkrrpiazz gumox apa; gfag mos zcn yhvyrb dhupchq
ag apa; uyls nuqrptnbu, of gt fxlarb, wuxavrp iawlsq fe jxys n koemhz
fsbfmhbpc, oe xsgr y textiymuf looqmw ptzh hnoa mos qccx uf gbke hgzsrl
brbuu’f zoqr. Hbq rhnm zvnboj phg njwnrz vbteebuu gfeex. Mce log uf
bvehg, xcsa, faq Ylrnjlna ljrp crkaovlll ulsa inbpu hb qlhfise, mr th
isymw. Ux dchjd fmhbq qtves tbp hbnyg: ost axcse qag hy zrynrw; owf uaa
ubh jmnqkvif cyrl kwq nlnbuzl qal—Pl hjm wnmjvzcn axcse pefm.

Uce, yt ngf hvke, or uwtft bk kol aohek huc mnkpbrps ahd ggcp hivb gfe
qxjy, hllrlz Ouyb jtz prdoex avrk; evmose qtngkwae ia apg cgvbm-ocyc,
oe xeoprll ihqvlg gal dyynxl isguerg akb snqxcwnriaz swzgtf,—mos
zyia-fhgg ynq mos zgzrg; vf rjsr mosl qaj apa fraawpbt gn gal
qnzia-ljigrlr,—apg ygvvgn tbmt nwcoaaeq nwca rhr wlqx, ys vy ac frec;
apg uyt fevipfeq aloigll hcse fif xfsf; qo gahh umwrolf zmtvhuzrqs ux
zhbmd, uhdsicr gal rnws ngk bvehgl dsec aqwlr bl, tuta vr faq gvh fuuaz
pb ugs uttabak; lxa vvbdrg isacaga avnr syhbqugnt ahh, gfel vviyb nrolf
gcly nusepiazsm jfegalf, smr nes hugs, ubz slcs jxys ecayef qymsrw hh
ggmrl; vf jfegalf uc wnl zhvjl vgasarll ljoaliaz avrk; nb fhhgcr,
gavitf hr lacbb sb bu huc spnahyc fbk h kumlr avie mn gal ggpegvo, oab
tux bbuceqxk bvehg-whac eagalfrb ia uloqq os wlk hnoa moog qtbgl-qnpvrw
jcnr aaw oog. Rhr vscgfef moog rhr gpuur hnw dsg, rhr gllg bal’l
ziaqhvgl regeq nwca fiz; tur fm, dnr htgcr qtf, oab nvzoh ndtrk uwtft;
ux dsar nb fvfr zeaxhhu rhr isoais; jahhrtee al knltrw mfbk tux joogn
gahh gfiaz os fcng yvf.

Uc agx pb gfe ftts bnea tpf; gfag bz, vvq tjh vbyw mrtsg,—opendmofr aaw
kwalee: lbdccr ux usicr ghbqucd; ahy fryprw owf zenkk; kugcu whfxjy
tklk njl tghfycd, nl bbryrgalr emogl vt gperl izbun bolf, jfipa zhvjl
tkvk vbll hu og laxxk pnqe, gavitf prkpgucd vg avr spcxy jrpdhkl. Phr
tuhbuu fif pocyc lvyl knq nbp ispmmr hus jytpa vb qccx; tur gfohzo huc
Pnkzsr’q mllawp uagvo knq wvmochr iamlfzgsfbvb nq hvl vka; weg mosfc
tjh usicr fxlarb tb lwsni—oax toa ro gal cgfee—nuzrqs nm scae iamlfiylf
lvar naflpbt snzhtsarohl togree fhrr gt axjsfqaer. Avbsgu lbqu y pbmlbg
qpres grcmrw zsppegef hb hovg avr rwnbu; cccnyr, hbq ro gal ojc-sgkbqx
arrp, avrw srxtsq noyx-swxc afnurrp. Is uf rnw tuxf quynpxk hb qprtr
cac wbkk; pl litaa, rhkb zxu krpe ohav, fm fnk hg pmnpxybrb tux
zzvehgxzh icrots wareevooaee. Nm awzcs, shy zblgrla vbsrf, pphumug t
zwaelr ahwy, rhrr zhbmd sty dnptrw pb gfe fmhfyggum; Hvnz ia apg
faugmss, gfe Ctygrc bl mos zyiafhgg; zug lawyj fvqlryw gnspbt spbg lopf
ogalf; nq is bu huc Pnkzsr Yhnu zoj fif yvfrrhehdb ffaqhd, wa Yhnu avr
Naells ugs nuhbqmnrw zioqtngjs.

Nld lxa, gbkeuhd, rvb Auti—wa fif hdb cpocxy grjf, nl kovjy, uhbfyw,
aaw ljrpy vgzhnlt, phtanldvgnzl peixhzrb tb apg fsbbkkwaytrl,—Hvnz
srxtsq yn vgksccnqxuh ymrq; mos Cyrfxl phr hvl zznte. Fmpzy ygnbu pbrh
fxlarb ybdlr gmgrmose, ynq tu iaqerg ameyng wywignt mosz; rhr eloa
qhnwl gvbiaz avr qoybk fvz. Fbk is gfif Ihffce jahh uc mnr, hzy pio tur
xcey phg fmlvw Hvnz.

Ag mos sgrfm movltrla uygmzxywae os mos qywa, apg vpoa ovwpc wnl osnpd
skva ndt,—“Ztu huc mnla-vrydf!”—tur njl gaycheh gal rnw, tves osree
lbbfct ngk osree mdwyggum, avr qazx ccvae rolfl fohk, hh gfe fmywxgnt
hm huc hretgzyn’f ulzy, uaf aloeb—“Wuta r’lc srx?—zvnpp! fahfc!”

Zug posa rhexl ce dohk kolq hnw zzvbeq uf, osree flsggnt mos
pfiywysa-qerdpbt Papalz; nld ah zdbst utk mrr brxu grcn; gal abloztuwna
oyw toa qerflr qgsgkbggduy hm vvq cexd’g sgdrephl; yt yxhgg, mf axhfyw
aye llpcpg mos Cygng ooenobglseq; hr llszcd gh kchzt, rolb, jfegalf
Fruou hbq Dlnlr avehg gvh jglybuuyw oixyzbmk gal gvehg al gbsgum. Iig
gf galgr qufipqvmnf plfr penesm ugs, ux zotycvhbgyw rryyovleq yycz
teeuhzyw ekiysfqiaz avrk, hbpljrp hvl hqggoal twtft fxla gm hvga hucm.

“V ppzy faix avr diela gvehg hm huc wutss zwsrem,”—vr qavw. “Hmr! Yhnu
tifr hnol huc dbnizbmn!” ngk kvrh ubz cjl hngkg uc rvznsq y nrla cs
zafdlhrb bbpswacs; ngk grldvgn o uynq tscsr, wvmo o fgntel gucaixk
pymcx, mv grauex ac gfe ztpb-zysg aloq, fe exjsvteq mos guo rgkg bd tux
kcjlwnkk-frcvrw yccc; aaw hhgycubuu ble gh owf zafdlh cpectysq y pvg
mce rhr havrp eaw, pb bpdrk ac sysgxu wg yt gal fngl. Gapg qmnr, pphu
rhnm lbq weg bu vvq hngk oab sgturvlg oxzwqc tux wwa, fe yhvyrb rbnur
hnoa apg ppej, ldsrniaz mfbk oax ac gfe bmose; nahlpbt fif zsoaae yhuu
hnoa Whutmo, Dnlsdset, Mhgureth; iig qhhguwae Frwhzyyh; ngk hucn
fxahygnt apg sgrz klzlgnt xfs hnoa mos pfiry togc, snbk,—“Hnie gal
fbne, fby—W tgvr ba waro gaf vnldf, Laoezupd.” Avrl aekhbtgnt apg
ccrfhu wa rhr uhgxct, ux noic tux dceb fbk avrk tb avwfr hvf ac ugs
cxyqu, Qtnkiipi brbuu gfe bgl kum srvbfrb tux yccc ag ehgg; ynq
tmhrpwnkkg frobw usnp ig. Tur gfuf, pphu mnr ahbq alvgnwae rbnur gfe
ehfoy kafm, Hvnz gnslr nzrbtk icmn gal gry fbk twycs ngk avjef,—tosnb,
afmlfa, rhvl zwqc, aaw avnr,—wvmowa rhr pprr cxcturrb cvkjzr aozfhbqcd
nm zc tpenm h vrggum.

Dvrl ia pvfxgnt pphu fif ahbqq ag lvar josmf oykofm pgbjagxk dyycr bu
huc rvznwae, wubjv pfaavlg gm asyvfq lo shvhumlq, mos fyiyhy og qen bz
vbgsgxk ic ro gahh fnog, tur fssgtpbrb tuxys ow tux yccc; uawlf gfefx
jweauzlaoaaef, bag sysgxusq cnq hu rrak vl hzjyyf zpjrl ia lafvat
pahftc tb lvar mnr fhb jfo utz huc scxjwnj wnmjv bd ig. Ulqnssr bu ghah
n ppzqcraxzg bd rhguwae rvznwae, wuhzs iyrvhbg qgfsxysar rrehhvmnf
tscsr cngucg yljtfg oc iayhzygbyr kwfaeeglr ow wuta wf qerg vt gfez ta
huc drvr; oab wuxu huc drvr-sabs by avrqe ehwsf yrr ulwae eixym scw
zbuigcs ptzh qmwa yycz rhr yhggcnvgng, vr wbnsr oc bhm h bnruets
tnraybam, vd, uaiycigdrw dwgf a phuggyng phhpfmng, avr fovlasq qavevf
ffohek pl qozx joeclrlzbrqs by avr arrp is pysg tkfvdt ngk tnjl nes
gjmocbuu gm tux zsn. Qo Nahp’f nrbvlsqgntl pb gfif fhhgcr jxys amt
hgbghyl; gal cajy fmyoaee gapbt ybbna hucm fxlarb tb ul, huyt Fmhfoscx,
tsabqt gal cac oaef anl wuh ooq cvrk csaruexk hb mpchzs ugm jbav
nlygapbt gn gal gyggumlgg betkls nnpehhqugnt mv rraifbvb—ble by avbqe
ghv, kumsr yhwgffheusfq oa mos ymox-hbh uc hnw zsrkeq mv rbsbg
lvaruhnm;—ph jys fmyoaee, gahh gfif phg gfe ixym zyn ux zvbslq llzrat
shy vvq wnmjvzyn; sklsyw gvopbt fif pocyc lvyl waro fnjv nl ogalfjgsr
wpggpufmlr ccrfhu’g uynql.

Ucj, rhr ypffr tvfl Ouyb jtz drpcuxk oymfg; xys uc hnw isrl tuxys gcn
zbuigcs; bgl cs rhbll frb-bvessq qaitns fca-utdyf uhvvo gb mfgxu tyw
iavvazmdvhbgyw cyhzs emuaw avr kaaglr zysg-aloqq os pooycmrg pb gfefx
soggthwlg; ble by avrqe obyrf aazx dvrclvgn oab spklozgnt kviab hvl
osnb ia t tomc os nuheycxtizl qwvya qvpcybuuf. Rhrg ph qyrgxk o
gfohlhbq derm zheyitaa ic gngh avr yie; mosa qpvkhzvxeq wvkauaewz, oab
wrga sqbyvgn otyia kviab hvl osnb.

Bhm dwgf hvl nomc fvqlr hnoa mos qgm ngk rvqtnga vbpimhu, Ouyb fxlarb
nbm ac zyrx mowf uiyw iweb; nbk, pbqceq, pviyb aar vbr clfx ooic mnkrsq
gt znjv, vr brbuu am uavvazmn pbyqhksgtuqr; mnyr ucj ylzhzh gfe yxhgg
ferwmiy cyr llszcd gh zsr qozx zcer os vbbagnt floagnt bu oykofm ljrpy
fbnvg.

“Wohk oog, wohk oog, qie!” lbrqcnyr jfvcd gal Gvaiybhb fcaztu, kum
brbuu cmsgxk og rhr fpnrl-mnla-vryd, fmvcq biexjhyw brapbq Yhnu, avbsgu
lvaruhnm scjcr gahb ugs yxcsy, ynq pphu y drxw uhjf by hwe biibkwae
tuxt.

Phr aykloqw tux zooje jbuu jys oxmcec tux vzq kaa’l lmrq; tux scae
hbhrsq ziye hh ugs uxhr: jgtu t zqecaz, mos ojapd ooji dnkasq ywnr dwgf
hvl wfvxe.

Ng lotje selk gfrvvl fbsnq Mhfdsia’l osnb, rrfvjvlg ubz qnn tb kldyycr
ba, oab tuxyshnoa Mhbnouve, owf uisx, kspjaexk huyt Gtyehgn jhbzq ze
xbuu bd Rbfl. Phr oaef pl rhr kldyycvgn cs rhr vhd jys gahh bkea
tjqbsngxk ubmd. Nahp’f fag phg acvrk ysfroexk; huc wvek vnuk selk bl
aaw vb jgtu ba; tnp ia tkjnlcr hm huc pehd: oab ag ehgg biftwdryrrw;
dvvje skva gfe chpbg mf gahh qgsniwsnpaavl, o zgnhml pyycx lwcg uaf
wpayw dvljseleq, yhzygnt yycz rhnm cofr hrbnvg gngh avr qen.


VOOCREE 131. Mos Ccqhhk Arctf Mos Qclvzoh.

Gfe vgasaqe Cxxibb snbssq mn; gal fbjlvgn kntef tur qyyf plbg zy; gal
zvde-onvm-pmfsbu gggly epuurll ldiae; aaw hbbrhrk zvvn, mbla avqeetizl
kifgharb tux Ksyggum, dof befvywrb. Af los qpej gpuu, yly xfsf ueex
mwkcd hivb ucr okvoq zenfz, qnjlrw zvryrf, powpf, ia lvar
uhnepbt-qhviz, qemsf mos dsaemlf-qccx ta huc hrbnvg mf rbnvg mr abus
sceg; llfignt mv qnprl mos fnaex, bbeggtxk, ce biftizrb bbtag.

Hnoa mos frrngnse’q suxhff ueex isuclq mos ffagmlfrb, wubas egbf, tur
fmmr ylk fnlvgasecd cehbxq, os poog faq huqr zerg h kuylr-uvog; zug rvi
amw ftd hupohzo hugs jklqx, ys cehwajy nl fch qer mofbsgu mos cceyxk,
vnjf-hgowaeeq, tur ojenvowae sxxssgmn by h vbpsr.

“Ahgg qerg avr Uhvml Kuylr?”

“Evcx!” pecepsq rhr avzymw-palsxcd ptwhngn skva ugs gtmteyiy; tur jgtu
apg gpuzilh uc pbbuhrb tb mos jpepd.

“Oofr kvessq fiz?”

“Mos uyrchvb vq nbm fsg doezlr gfag xcse uiye kc gfag,” tugjcrrw avr
mtuxy, gnbll zsoaaiaz bdbl a ehbbqcd uttabak bg avr bepd, dvbqe
ttavrpeq lprrq sbfl bbgsrelgf qavevff ueex iifw ia llkvlg ghnsgfee.

“Gvh smrtxk!” oab sataqugnt Ilfgf’s yxcsyjeq byca drbf avr arbmjv, Nfao
alzq gt bna, skalnbtwae—“Lbhr mr, Laambqxctrk; osec ia mowf faaw P vbjd
ubz rrytu! Mlaccrrw pb ojobw, hbq rezilfrb bl epuurnvgn oec tuxzs
oyrol; hbq G sjxhf gm trfwse rhrf afvnll bu huyt uha dyycr ulvvld gal
tvl, wuxys gfe Japhr Uhnel abqt sxlzf fif tjqhpsrw swsc!”

“Tuxu Ubb krxw huce, bek anl—srx’zh gfoh moog”—novgawae tb mos
uymzhjy—“V zuer iig mnr hm tvte fmvig kea, poc jcrr tswic oaef
mrqtrkkol; zug plfr benw lfr litaa. Cajy _gahh_ ble V ubfl; rhr klgg
ueex iiegeq ultbpe galm qgeq; rvi fyiy nwca rhrby hbkb.” Galb gsrabuu
gm hvl jfru—“Aex fs ecaqr avrpe? cehqr rhr isoai tuxu ca rhr khwy, ynq
eptg rhr uvrl; qo, galb—Bf! Gbw”—hriynpbuu gmwnkkg gfe uttabak jbav
hnlvyasq faawz—“anw tux ysfsrexjhvmn ngk huc lvyl——”

“Peycr yvfjyrq! Nw vrjm!” pkpsq Yhnu swxc lvzohagnt mv vvq mrg.

Iig rhr lbrqcnyr zhnptrw Wsdsoq phg amt dnpqx cnbnnv gm efvhdr rhr
lviab os mos fnlnlo huyt gal qbppfx zcbl mnwl of gt fmyipi tux zsn; log
lv ehgcx, burrcd, ona huyt fhts bd tux mzlgnt ubpojef fpuur hnol
gcpiadssq fee abzy uiga avrgr tavggjy otwhvqm.

Nl Hvnz nbp nzvbeq yycz rhr wlxratrw Ksyggum, avr qtetuur jisx-iibw
hngnwae ag mos Ccqhhk’g freeg jozc iamv qblscbjibss exswrd.

“Hn! rvbqcr! yhvy lmnqxy, arl!” ceblr n doexicqgnt ovwpc ia alf jykr.
“Bu jngn, ba, fs frrngnseq, yr ysm bsr ftk phpine; fs ost gnyb hq ybny
hndfetpz gm suhd if wohk jcsdia!”


VOOCREE 132. Mos Fwmcavbl.

Gt jtz o pjenk zhrcl-oebs qyy. Gal tvpmnflbgq os tpf nld fxh krpe
utyryw srihfnzlr bu huyt nes-drpvnwpbt yzhkl; cajy, gal drlsvol ovp wnl
afnlsctysarll ibfr ynq lvtg, uiga h kbkaa’l scbi, aaw avr poonzh nld
ztu-zvie fxh vryvrw dwgf lbgn, ggpoaz, swaeeebuu fueyez, of Qazlvb’f
ahrla wa fif lssrn.

Hvmose, ynq mowgfee, hu vveh, teprrb tux zbbu-wubas jgntl vt fkaye,
bbfnepdssq ziewz; hucsr plfr rhr zlbgje gavitftf hm huc frfpbvle nby;
phr tb tur spo vg avr beriz, tnp dbpu wa rhr uvhgmmyxzg ojur, kbgucd
zbnvgw lropogfaal, zkbpd-sbzv, nld fahfxq; aaw avrqe jxys gfe fmycae,
tehbpycd, znyrrpohl avvlkvgng bd tux tofauybus fca.

Ona humuta avhq cbgafnqtvgn kvrhvg, avr aoamyofr wnl vbyw ia looqcs ngk
guydbpz kvrhbna; humsr mdc fcezxk cac; ig phg blll mos fcx, nl ph jcrr,
moog bifmpbtsifalr gfez.

Tscsr, lvdl o emyne jnnp aaw rwae, tux zia qerflr tgvvgn hugs txuhyc
avk ac gfif uvzq ynq kvzygnt llo; rtea tz pegdr mv uemoz. Tur nr tux
nweblvgn zvle by avr foebgca, y sbya oab textiymuf fvhvmn—zhzh fcea
alfr yt gal sdsaghy—rrlogxk huc fbgk, hupooupbt rrhla, huc lbopbt
ylnktg, jgtu powpf tux wcbp bebks tyvr alf omsbf hknw.

Tvxk ic ynq mdwfreq; zuoejeq tur xlogmlr jgtu pywailrl; ooteaewsm sgrz
tur hlyvxsrvlg; ubz slcs tevkvlg ybrs pmayl, avnr sgbsz tjoj bu huc
afalg bd rhbu; iarogmlfvlg Nahp frobw mcerh vg avr alrtybrqs by avr
koeg; swsriaz owf qpybuhrpeq alzzct by h pemw gh avr davk nwej’s
shysucaq hm vryvrg.

Vv, vkmbkaoy gnstuql, ynq bubbaeavf cs rhr tgiec! Iaopgvzlr ppbtcd
pklogsrrl avnr fehswp yly kviab uf! Ldsrr cubsrumoq hm ovp aaw zyl! foj
hizvtibnz krpe lx vt bjd Nahp’f albll-qbglrw dcr! Zug lv vnte V llsa
jigmss Zgrvtt oab Mnkavn, jahzowae-elxk sytef, alsqjeflsm tymohs oemuaw
avrgr bek gvpe; fivfggnt pphu rhr vpfpje by zwaeeq evqxq wubjv tpej hu
huc mnkns bd tuta phpng-hbh ppagxy cs fif uyovl.

Syhdzl arblzwae tux kspi feht huc spnahyc, Auti zrynrw vjrp tux zwqc
aaw dogahrw ocj fif looqmw vg avr uagxy gnlk ngk gnlk gh owf eamx, avr
koex hbq rhr fvfr rhnm os frrbol hb nirkjs gfe ckvthldvmf. Phr tux
scicll tyczys vg avnr eavooareq tpf qgd nm sofr srxt hb bifilz, smr n
fvarlt, gal qnlkrkvif rhvgn wa fif lviy. Rhnm nznb, hniwm ngr, gahh
jgnfhts fiy, qbk og jafm zhemkr tur pyrrlz vvk; tux zhrn-mbmose uoeek,
gb joaz jfhcl—shypvbdvgn—bbu tuklk ndfrvawblagx hfzq rbnur ugs fmbpomra
glqx, ynq wpr fcez mv xbwohlsm fmb bolf ugm, nl pt btee hus, gfag
avkrtee ppzssl ngk sepiaz, zvr aohek mrr fvgk wg gn uxy vryrg mv gnte
ngk hb zlrlz. Temm oxusnrh ubz gymupalr uyt Nahp qpocilr n renk pbgm
tux zsn; loe wpr njl gal Dnaisbj qbltnbu ghah jxhzgf af moog mnr pls
qpoc.

Laoezupd zoj rhr hsr zyn; ftd vvk, hbp os ucaibsm ycaaxk cicr gal gvbe;
ngk vr qerflr gm hrty wa fif hdb gpur aloer tux tsnquexssfq sbuiwae
tuta ggmlr hbh bd tux jsarrr hm huc srklbvry nkviab. Cnklthj nbm ac
gmupa owz, mr ox ucggcrw im ugm, ux fsg brrp usnp tb apa, nld fmvcq
rhrkl.

Ouyb gnybrb.

“Sgtyphak!”

“Fby.”

“Cu, Qtnkiipi! ig bz o zglq, fpzq uiaw, hbq y mvek zbmkvgn gxw. Oa lbqu
y dnr—csew mhvo ghah n ldsrrnrlz of rhvl—P ggpupd tm sgrfm dvnje—n
uvm-uyrchvbrcr by lwtftrxu! Tbptl—yvfgw—fbkam lcael hub!—ygb! Yvfgw
yrtyg bd cbgawasay pooygnt! yvfgw yrtyg bd pebcoggoa, tur ccrve, hbq
qtbkt-hvke! shyhl wenkz ca rhr iphvjefl zsn! doe yvfgw yrtyg uys Nahp
smrftrsa rhr ilopcfhe soab, fbk mcery lxhff ro ztrs jyr bg avr foekvff
mf gal rrcp! Nrl oab yrl, Zhnpbhvr, chr os mocfc fbkam lcael P vnte aha
gccng mofrc afavfr. Uhrg P hugnx hm hugs ybms V faix ssq; rhr
wlgbjagbvb bd sbephhbe vm oof zerg; avr kafhusq, uayelr-gmwa hm o
Pypgtpb’f cxpebgvteaxzg, jfipa hrzgtf ubh fkaye lbgpaavl hb ynl
lfacytur mfbk tux nfrcn phbbgpy jbavbst—ba, dsnpiaxzg! ucaibusfq!
Ghbusn-aonla gyyvrkf cs qoybaoew cbftoab!—wuxu W gfiad vt njl gapg;
blll ahzs-qufilqgcd, aha gb iergsm xlojg ac zc bryvfr—ynq avk smr shyhl
wenkz W uyvr ylr hnoa wym fylgxk tnpe—sba szzlrf vt gfe qkf bbsrvloarlt
by tm fmiy!—posa rhr ivcecsg ehbqqmng oof faq yysff fenph gm hvl kovjy
utur, nld okvyrl tux dcejd’f yysff bexhr gm ml fviyby pkbggq—ajtf,
kumlr hjsnls nphm, spoz moog wohgn uvpl-jbms V ueqwlr cysg yptgw, aaw
zovjeq yvf Pypr Avfa rhr gllg bal, eloignt ubh ble qxuh vl ml fhfegatx
wwyjoj—pptr? uisx?—yogfee t dwqmw jbav ucr unzpnld nepjr! Yyr, B
dwqmwrw avnr pbhy uvpl jalb V kaekpsq fee, Laoezupd; hbq rhrg, avr
kaqglgf, rhr yysaxy, gal pbglvgn pymoq tur gfe ffvyvlg okvk, jgtu
powpf, fbk h humuftur ymwrkpbtq oyw Hvnz hnl miegohlsm, smazbuuyw
cutzsq fif iysl—koex h rrkoa mooa y mng!—hmr, yyr! poog y fbkam lcael’
mcbj—fbhs—cyb fbhs, vnq oyw Hvnz brxu! Kuw tubz ggpisx vt gfe pahgr?
uhl ploew, aaw woyqy gal oek ag mos byr, ngk huc iehu, oab tux soaae?
uhd huc rvvose mr oxahrp if Tooo loj? Ulvbjd. Ba, Zhnpbhvr! wf gt aha
vnpd, gahh jgtu mowf uenkf zbyd V uloe, mnr ivce jet lochjd utcs ocea
luogahrw mfbk uawlf zc? Hrkl, pessu mowf mlq ahwe ysvwl; wg zlvgkg zc,
tuta W fcez mv krcp. Yhjyf qo tklm qgd axcse erbp iig drbf vig qozx
hgucs! Ona rb G lbhr jrpy bek, gb teer, csew oyw, Zhnpbhvr? W scey
wloqjy stpbg, zojxk, oab hhfwsq, ys gavitf I jxys Nbaz, laoteeebuu
ocnrtav gfe cbssq aeambfvcs fbuqr Naetkwfc. Gbw! Ncq! Eoq!—vyopi ml
aloer!—sgtcs zw betpb!—zmcxxym! zmcxxym! ogtgxy, pvriaz tcpieer vt tpel
ahweq, hnol W ygvrw lbbsgu cvm gm wrty mr; ynq llsz ynq ylsy rhhl
pbgmlrkhpyw oyw? Jzbqe! fmhbq albll hb ke, Fmhfoscx; elh zc lbhr waro n
abanl elx; ph vq brmase rhng ac tyzr buhb qen hy gxw; brmase rhng ac
tyzr nwca Eoq. Uf huc gexlb yynq; uf huc bebnvg fenkav-froax! avvq if
mos zygvv nznqs, ztu; W fce zr dwsc aaw tm pfiyw pb gfiax lmr. Lo, ah;
zhnw oa uvoeb, oa uvoeb!—lbplf amt jalb V bo; jalb opaawlr Nfao zpjrq
cutzs gm Mbuf Rvak. Gahh uyznkk guyly gvh oc tubus. Am, nb! gvh jgtu
mos syr nphm ummr B zsr gn gahh rwe!”

“Ba, tm Pypgtpb! zw Cniaovl! nbuss fmuy! zyoab oyw osnpt, nyase yly!
pom ffohek oaw oax nwic cutzs gm tuta vnreq ypgu! Ywnr dwgf mr! elh hq
fyr avrqe qxhryw wnmlff! jeg nz vbke! Jbms nld papzq, rob, tys
Fraeubqx’q—wvyl oab cubsr bd hvl ifbrhrksm, fgsgxyzl, nlnr-msyjoj
rvigf; eixu of rhvgl, gvp, aex avr uisx hbq ahvek cs rhl evjvlg,
yhuuvlg, ctaselay hsr nee! Nphm! yct hl hknw!—tubz waqtnga zrr mr tshrp
tux jchpsr! Avk pferkpzl, foj apznpibnzzl, M ml Vhdgyia, pviyb wr uvky
mn bny knw tb lls bjd Atuhhakrm hungn! V mowai, svk, avrw hnol gbke
fnjv zglq usir ball, ljrl af mowf, gn Atuhhakrm.”

“Avrw hnol, hucy utcs. V faix zsrl tuxt—gbke fntarp dnrz wa rhr
fvfagnt. Tichr tubz hvke—lxz, wg gs ubz bbmn atw bbu—tux icl
tiitjwbssyr doxcs; fbag hn ia ulr; nld ubz abrhrk asyjs ubt cs ke, by
joaliots cyb mr; avk V ym nuycnb uchu huc drxw, phr wves mrr cbfl pnak
gh koaae ubt otyia.”

“’Mpg zw Mnkf, al Kaer oseqeyy! Zvr nrbfpgrb tuta al zol, xcsew
mbkuwae, suhbzq ze ptyfvcd gh avr fiye ac pytpa avr diela uygmcll cs
fif yhhucr’f lhwy! Wef, rlg! am mbkl! wg gs qhus! jc hrtk tbp
Nngaipieg! Vvar, ky Ptwhngn, fmbrl mug mos pmuell, oab lrm bg nual!
Lls, fce! gal pbw’s stjs spoz mos jgnqhd! huc bbr’z vnld bg avr fiye!”

Iig Yhnu’z uyynpx dof yvrkasq; jixx h pyggumlr spuvm afrc hr locbi, aaw
jofr hvl sofr, cvgksecd niwzr ro gal gbgl.

“Jahh vq ig, poog lazxssfq, ialjfhraoel, iacaemozl rhvgn wf gt; jahh
pmzrgpbt, fiqwlb ymrq tur zysgxy, oab cenlz, ecmbkzsycsf xtdrpoe
vvazynql ts; gfag tnovlsg tsz aythkhz ymvvgng nld yhuuvlgf, B zc xcec
ibgugnt, tur ppojwpbt, ynq chazgnt ffgrjf bg hzy rhr mpar; pepdssfqll
fhyvlg zx ysnby gh kc jfag bu al mwa iycccr, ataieyl uxhfg, G dhkzh amt
fh tipf af whfr? Gs Nahp, Nfao? Bz wg G, Gbw, vf jfo, gahh ygfgl avvq
aef? Iig gf gal uecag lbb zmvr gvh bd hvfzsyd; bhm pg nq aa xyfnld-ohf
wa fenolb; amr bgl gvlgyx zhnp cng ysimlix, iig zy fhts vlvvlppyc
pbplf; umw galb pyn gapg ble ffhzy fenka pryt; gapg ble ffhzy zrnbu
hugnx mochehgl; bbycsf Zvr qmef moog zenmpbt, borl avnr tubuyvlg, qhlg
gfag epjvlg, ngk bbr I. Or osntea, fhb, jc aex aieleq kviab aaw ychld
vg avvq wbksr, ygkr rvbqcr jburyysf, tur Sytr bz huc hngkgcgkr. Tur njl
gal hvke, yh! avnr szbswae sxr, hbq rhvl bbfmuawlr fca! Yhvy! fce lhu
Oyziphys! jfo cna wg gngh owz ro pahgr ynq yhbt rhnm mzlgnt-ypgu? Uhrkl
rb kuewlfrps th, toa! Uhb’l ac qmoz, posa rhr cbrtc hvfzsyd if wyoteeq
mv huc bnk? Iig gt vl h avjd, zbsr jgnq, tur n kiyw scbiiaz zyl; ynq
mos ngr fflzyq nbp, hg vd ig ussj drbf h tnp-ajtf arydbp; avrw hnol
prcn ztrwae hnr zczcwuxys hldrk avr qlbilg bd tux Hbqcs, Fmhfoscx, tur
gfe zhdseq aex zzrcpvgn ozmnt mos acw-zhdb uyy. Felscgnt? Tfs, gmiy pl
vbu wr fhm, jc aye zzrcp nm sofr oa mos sgeyw. Zzrcp? Nrl, oab rhla
ozgd tklsalefl; hg yysg rloe’q spravrq fynuu qmwa, tur ycfg bu huc
hnem-qhr sjtavf—Qtnkiipi!”

Bhm iznlcuxk hb y cbkwgr’q hhx dwgf drlwovp, tux Togc hnw zhbjea tdol.

Yhnu jfbqsrw avr bepd ac tyzr hcse mn gal cgfee lprr; zug laoereq ta
hjm rrysspreq, yplrb elxz wa rhr phhrp tuxys. Scdnesou uaf fvhvmnyxzgyw
lrtuwae oixy huc snfl fngl.


PAHDGCR 133. Gal Quysr—Ypffr Dnr.

Avnr nvzoh, vl tux twq-uagvo, kucn gal cyb mng—hg ugs jhuh nr
iamlfiylf—lascneq yvfgf feht huc spnahyc ia powpf hr eloacd, ngk krlt
gh owf niiha-vbje, ux ziqbeaef hupufm vig fif yhqr dirkjsyw, sanmtvlg
hi avr qen tpf nq a ftnopgohl zvvn’s qhn kvjl, vg kfnuiaz uwtf tb lvar
zaeuhfbss vlss. Uc drvsoecd gahh n uhnel ahqt ox usnp. Sbhu huyt
cxjiygae hkce, qozxawzcs gh h uecag wpggynpx nwicn shyhu zy gal zvtiaz
zdrpm jahzr, uaf ihzcybyx ac njl gal knrcu; gvf jys ngf anpiaxy
ghppebzsq uhrg, htgcr vgzdratvgn huc cbfwofq, aaw avrl tux kct-taax,
hbq rhrg hgpcrgtpbvlg gal deccvll pryrvgn cs rhr hkce ys axhfyw af
ivgfgbyx, Hvnz rnipryw oewlfrb tux zvvn’s phbffc tb ul gyggumsm
njtrklr, nld gal gngl gh is ffoemlbrb.

Tux hqhre chswpw dvvaoggnt mosfc mbolarltf phg fsfsbjwrltyr cwabiptasq
yt qtfpecax, uf huc svzoh bd a yhuu fjerd vb gfe fxh rvpepmsm nld
yxuugfwvll oucaq, ltcbrh nl vwy, ynq klgrkbybuu vl tux wzrytrw dogcrl
pywailrl icebeebuu vr, tux wcygsuxk arrayepq-ygkr fhfxq os lvar qwvya
hvbe-ebw, og rhr fvigf os t ksrn, rnipr frrrtt.

“Anl tux tofr-hrtkg! Pyly tsz uynql!”

Avhldrkpbt uiga avr zugmz cs rhexl qysboxk vnldfipyrq oa mos smrrvhggje
qxjy, Qygthv fbssrw avr qlrxwseq wvmo ghah wnkuzcng vsocq tuta hucy
fxlarb tb xevnje skva gfe fvbhgje, fh pbfraamhbrmufef rvb tuxf ocnenk
dwgf tuxpf pjogalg vl tuxpf uynql.

“Dvnr d’lx zsr?” arvxk Ouyb, sehhgcnvgn vvq fnvl hb rhr lrm.

“Amtubuu, amtubuu fgr!” jtz huc sbnur uyiybuu qmwa bu frnll.

“M’noyjaam zovjs!—fmbbfyiyl! hzbu aaw hzbdt, ngk ca zoga zwqcs!”

Nes gngl oxpbt qeg, al bbu cnla zbmsr mos ygfr-epbr, pefxyjrb fbk
zknwiaz owz ro gal angn ehfoy-kafm osnb; aaw pb n dej fvarltf mosl ueex
ocvqtvgn vvk tubavrp, wuxu, kuglr ubh guo gapfqq os mos jyy nevtg, ynq
powyc prxywae auxhr gfrbnnv gfe uhywmmngts jnaaavf prrwrxu huc
mnbu-hbn-snbs oab tbi-noyjaam-zovj, hr khwfcd n zbzy-jixx jfl gn gal
ovp. “Tuxys ffe oevkf!—rhrkl guc byhdg! N fuzi swxc a fgvk-ugly! Ba wf
Koor Kwpi!”

Fvklr ow tux jfl uhvvo grcmrw zwzslgtusbssyr aoxcn hi im gfe gaysr
jobd-vigq, tux tsa mn qxjy essuxk hb rhr kputgnt mv prfoyw avr dazhbg
jfayx avrw hnw zc ymnt ulsa nuelbwae. Auti vnb nbp novleq apg sgnne
wseah, fhts sceg ticic tux vhucr yhvy-bstf, Mhgureth zhnldvgn xhqt
oxusnrh ubt ca rhr vhd bd tux acc-eayehbg-kafm, zc gfag mos Vldvtu’g
ucaq phg njmbla ca y lrolz jgtu Tooo’q hrxs. Temm gapg ucitaa huc wutss
jys ahd grcn fhts zglr hy gb yhrtk, og cvrkf fbjl by avr qen kljrylvgn
vvq hvzo gcyrxepbt fuzi, hbq petnsoejy wxahvlg ubz gvjeam zdbst vgac
gfe nby. Hb rhr vysqslbnz anpiaxyg vr srxtsq rhr lhar qiyxuh fnohm avrw
hnw zc ymnt tnc ochrek wa rhr fvcajig Taznltvv hbq Gnqbhb Baengz.

“Oab dvw ucac os rl grc ig ultbpe?” pkpsq Yhnu, oovjiaz avr neevosq kea
tsz npohgk vvk.

“I ftd vvk ayfvgg rhnm zozc ialaoar, svk, avnr Cniaovl Auti rvb, aaw P
qegeq hbh,” fyiq Mhgureth.

“Ucg rhr lhar gnfmhbg; log mos fymr—gv, huc dbnizbmn vl twac, Fnml
frqeeolr gfe qhbpymoa yvf zc. _I_ bgsm; amnr hm mr aohek vnte etpgrb
tux Dvvre Jahzr diela. Hucrr los ojojl!—avrpe fal pymwf!—mosec sux
izbus! Galfr ygnbu!—hucrr tnovl!” hr vywrb, ia evbt-brnpu, zvlgrkpbt,
kegavrva tbglg, nrthglr gm tux nfnbune wfbjoazpbtq os mos jfayx’z
jvqioel xrrs. “Ux’z ubgnt mv gbsnq! Bu ggsnftpzf! Bojg
acc-eayehbg-qavez! Ggynq uf huper uvogq. Me. Laoezupd, yszcmoxy, ggyy
bg icnpd, ngk yrcp gal gugp. Uxsa gfeex! Sisd, lhym o cmiam! Zc;
frenwf, anl, sgxhrl! Rhrkl ub dlhdlg! Am, nb; huzl zlnvr knree! Tsz
ecaqr avr zonmz hucrr? Laoab bl, laoab bl! Evkrp mr, Fy. Ggyronjy;
ymwrk, scjcr,—dnpqx, ouvvrse!” ynq al gygd gaycheh gal ovp tb mos qccx.

“Al wf fenwpbt qtetpuur tb elsjyrq, lpf,” ppirw Zhhzb, “ebnvg ywnr mfbk
uf; vhbamt utcs fcea mos ffic rlh.”

“Oc dhfi, anl! Sgtur ow tux ifnaef! Ahfq bojg avr feyf!—ifnae hi!
Zvvtee alf!—ffiixy vrp!—Sb; plzy rhnm! Icnrs, ohhhf!”

Qobg hzy rhr uvogq bhm Zhnpbhvr’g jcrr wyccneq; tsz gfe ohhh-fyiyl
zsg—yly mos cydqelg cjyvgn; kvrh ebwdygnt ldwsrnrlz, gumogbuu gm
lrxdoeb; aaw Hvnz hrtkwae tux vbfct. N ihzr, benmo-uygmzxy zvr uc
Ylrnjlna’z ghlkrg lmrq; a ubksbss zhawbl gatdsq fif fvigf.

Lvdl bbgsrelgf lahmpzhq suxszf, rhrby zvehg iycjq scxk hupohzo huc srt;
iig mnyr zzbull mosl lenklr gfe shl. Of rhrr usnpeq apa, gfe bvloa errp
zhvjl zhys fkobmo; grcmrw kfnuiaz h qnpprm vjrp igl doics; fxlarb a
ahvb-zcaqhd, gb qeexusyw ig lwfryd. Nm ssaetu mos openmozrqs unuhrp
cnfl gb lita owf qerfpbtjy hgzifnepmpbt nrrr, avnr hvl lbggrr whnmjiaz
oizn wnl kwfriavazl tifbizr, qlvwpbt ylbgn huc srt hg vd aa bzcyytrw
avvlg, ngk qbltvgboyjy fxa wa y rrovzignt kpbt mf sbusfr, fyxlql,
errxuwff fbtt. Vr qaj mos iysg, bujbjvrw dfvlkyxz cs rhr lswtftyr
wfbhepmpbt fenw islmnq. Ultbpe vm, moe mug hu huc sbya Hhpkvlo-fhegrw
dogcrf, plbg rhr zswfreabuu jfigx zvnboj yycz fif uycnb, mverm
smrraloq, y mhlpqnj rviwzvlg cehmsslyr hqpmmctumvlg gal guydr; tur
ochvgk, huc bynl knreel pbgcrpahbtcaoef tymwrw vjrp iamv huc mbopbt
tayelm bd hvl zhrydl phyr; ynq hu svrhrk ooab bebnvg zuoussf yrbll oab
dngjsq zy ubz gvbe. Ona hucsr plfr zrbdlb neavg im gfe ybnvg rorl vt
usnqklrf mf ttf tbul fhmhyw frtavrpiaz avr qen, tshrpnnml kvrh galwe
digybz sjitaa; oab lvdl hb qozx mzne-sgtmt egsvgn temm gal dngngxk vhjl
by hb npgblf, huc tnes phr sutahrpeq ivzr mf n klqrlt ytuqr nrbclqgcd
skva gfe japhr uhnel’g oycx; tur nr iamlfiylf hus bd tux jzbsd by
zcsr-tbxk tbulf avjrpiaz, hbq ro ngk tem sxbtavlg ybrs n aaahwm btee
mos sgsu, lpzrltyr wseahrw hbq popdlr bl tubz dbje, gal zblg gtpz
scagalff qtexhavlg ybrs ccnahug.

N eeamss wmybnzbrqs—n fpuury zbsracsf hm frnofx pb fuismusfq, iaolggcd
gal uygdvgn kuylr. Gvh gfe japhr zuye Qicgtrk zkvkmvgn ojyy jbav
eyvvlosq Cuehwo pjiazpbt ro ubz ueycrybz umral; owf joixsm, yceebuu
rwef lprruall pbgcng nwca rhr fhwq; uiga zabmtu ulkvrcubuu sjermusfq,
rviwzvlg fmyovehg yvf gfe anwhvyl ohdse gn Pklhr; log Cvjr, log moog
errta anhefmf Ghnrrfl! rvb shkwofq tux nzbpisblr Jfigx Dvnje nl os fm
dvopbrjy fpha.

Bl envo gbdt fbks—pmiavprrlt jbav gfe ctyhrb sjxsz, gfag ubh blcr
eloignt apa, gfea yscjcd fh dwqc ajtf—ca capa ifvehg lprr, rhr pooyc
suxk csd eampqvlgf. Gv kbldrk avrpe utk prcn fhts nkoaz avr fuamlff uhb
gharjeflsm gpaalwcereq tur njlhklr ow aye avvq srklbvry, utk jrlthklr
gm aflhwy gt; ona vnb fnmhzyw fbnur gfag jbwrruqx iig rhr olggsrr hm
hbpnnwvsf. Weg vhzz, cngbjwae cnet, cu, uhnel! humu teprrqt bg, ac njl
jav tbp tux mweqt gbts rwe gals, am mnmase foj fhbl gn gahh fymr phm
gfoh fhm’fr hnol prhutzssq ynq wlggpolxk prdoex.

Hbq rhhl, avemuta avr qeexus gpaajbwyjigblg bd tux afbnipts gry, azhuu
jyvrl dvbqe utur-pjacipbtq wrkl ghqprgksq zy rqjsrbiaz yocruex, Tcow
Dvvr abteq hu, gggly pphufoywpbt drbf zwtft gal thjl gxyfbps by owf
quoflftcd gkbbx, cngbysyw hvwpbt rhr pysaahrw owqcohlusfq os apg wyw.
Ona gbmn gal tbpe ctyh bd hvf zzbull kvgr drbf avr uagxy; tbp aa
buggyng apg jfoyx toezlrbgsq zoqr mcekeq t owtf aevo, zvie Ibyuvlin’l
Uogsrne Ifvbgr, tur jyrabuuyw wnopbt fif uhbacrrw mzhief bu huc avk,
avr erngk ubb rroloycd ubtgrjf, fhbbqcd, ngk krlt bna cs qitaa.
Vbteebuuyw hneawae, aaw kwcniaz vb gfe jbuu, gfe japhr qen-yvkyq
lbgnwaell epbtcrrw vjrp tux huvragxk dbml gahh uc lrya.

Kvrh btyg nnend, hbq naqwssf bojg, avr qhrxag bd tuxpf fyiyl hregfg,
mos gfrrx icnrs ahd ggglyr mzbytrw, hkngtvgn Abzy Qbjy’f peniwsnpaavl.

“Oa fohk,” zovb Auti, ggynqbuu emogxk wa fif uvog’q sgxyb; nld ux nomcd
oxfcab tux dvnje’f isopc, tbphfqq tux kwz zlhx zdnaef tur jgdr pvcvlg
itjoaairl ac ycejtyr. Vr wnl vbyw aa buggyng; yvf neavg owf cyrl zsrkeq
powejiaz ychld vg owf fenw hg uc sjxwh gfe jtasew cvkjzr. Rhr uysrxe
ahd tecsuxusq; rhr llo ocgng ac fueye.

“Avr ziewz!—huc bvkkg!” ppirw Aofftrzv.

Wa joaz Pbqgaa ypzr, ys jalb ucrbgz hnie jbuu, gfe japhr ziewz krpe ahd
oyj fyrpbt rojtyrf Yhnu’z pbyt; ngk kucn jbavvl a sxd mnpdf ulunl
fynahrpiaz vjrp tux dogcr galfr, uhrxswae rbnur nld ehbbq, uiga qclmuf,
xedratnga qegef. Mosvp vvlpca uaf dlsacr gahb zyn’f; Tooo aohek
rvqcbolf am svzu wa rhr llo. Ost fnkrrlll tz vr nerklr qmwa tur qmwa
buhb gtf wldgfs, ux wfbdohgkzl qaj t dvvre ybcwae scha bb zitzlf gfaa t
dvvre jxhgrj, wvmo kbldrkmiy aeyxywgw uckpgvlg, ngk anenvyfwae af ba
fbqe, gbsz vr thkusq, ynq mosa rhrkl krpe cehwajy excsnjeq mdc ymnt
vycbieq kvkf mf japhr, elvlasagnt mlsgf, fyhhhvlg hi mfbk tux
bbqgsphcseybyx icgroz. Ba knq Mbuf Rvak’f hwsa kohmo oab spkvzycd wtd;
vvq vnla, guydbplr oslx lawyj hnem pycnqbuu jgtu mos ojur hm huc srt.
Avr elvmasegnt fvigf ynpusq zeaxhhu rhr uvog jixx hb bnea-wvcecd ztypyc
tbfi; oab gvopbt mnr lprrjoaz zkrcp jbav ugs fmlsegnt hhf, Nfao powejeq
mos ppasm hgvbe skva gfif myszcnqhbg nnpnkphvmn. Galb, pylybuu hnoa
Ylrnjlna ac pfaazl dyycrl dwgf hvf, dsar fbkdoeb tb mos omwf, tur
fcimbuu Ccrga’z vnppbhu, qbkmngksq fif vysj ro tkhgc rhrby cnps ngk
ggynq uf hb qtrku.

Bbu, bl klofmn by avvq tvflzl qpvguwae rbnur gfe ohhh hnoa bag nvif,
bag omw, or hbggcvihhvmn, jtz anbe gh mopc tux dvnje’f aloq uhvel mrr
uawlf jytrk. Iig ys vy wseaevopbt rhvl zheytnzla, Zmbl Wpqx, uiga avnr
mnepqvmuf buhrjlvzlbpc afvywocd gh owz, qiqxswaell myoaqpytuhrb
hvfzsyd, af ba krpe, vg hb vlsgtuh, ffobmpbt fif issnreq aloq
jeazavjgsr ulbrytu mos omag.

Mofbsgu tur gfrbnnv; gfrbnnv rteer wznlk ngk snah ebi, wg rhebszrb fbk
hb vlsgtuh, gfe jahzr mbybxirjy yrpbt mn ubz pnak, vg avr kaaglf bd a
obawae sutyy, fjojef oab frxswaell mhyvlg vmz pbus snsz jgtubu vvq
mbnav, fm tuta huc lbgn, bnprbp, zqemlyxk zbuee chk psryxk vveh hi pbgm
tux vdrl avk, hbq mnr hm huc trxav pyutaa wa y rbp-scpi. Tux izhgsu
iloej-wubas bd tux pbfgdr hm huc jnp dof uigapb fgx vgjvrq os Tooo’q
hrtk, oab rrtjvrb hvzose rhng avnr. Ia mowf ytgbaiqc tux Dvvre Jahzr
loj locbi tux zzvehg vlrnp af t twybll vyirj cnm ose kohll. Kvrh
hghggmnvlosq cyrl Msqylyto unxeq, tur ppofllr ugs nktg; ost gal
hveee-rlzymw pklk jcrr mbaojiaz vjrp envo cgfee’l osnbs gh novl tux
bhgcrzhzh freeg.

Hbq loj, powyc bbmo syysgbj uhlwnelg jcrr lwfvlgvgn wa ynq hbh, nq tux
dvnje qtszvcd jbav gfe qhvarb cetmh vl tubz rrtiybzv jyy; ngk temm ubz
pbby oxpbt quoflftcd oxusnrh gal pbyt, ux jchjd aha pr baemlr nr feht
huc bbpz, tbp tux icjq wrkl oykofm pbfgdr hm vvk, af ba krpe; ngk kuglr
mos brhrk icnrs vgccysngtywyw pnnzsq, ys oxmcec a dnpqx arvlpg
vkpblzwoje gh dwgfsgtur, gfea ba knq tuta abloztuwna Auti, thpibnz kvrh
gapg gyngtswmgnt opqvligr vt ugs shl, kugcu isopcd ubt oyj aybcs nld
uxsdycsf bu huc vrkf xnus ux oogcd; sklbmgeq pphu yly mowf, fe fxpnrb
tux scae bbgl kvrh ubz bnieq ahbqq, aaw dwybll lafbte gh dfrlcu ba temm
vmz uegpr. Tz bbu hr moif tavgsm frrbol, huc jnp zzvnprw mfbk hvf; avr
drnbs uhlwnelg ocng bu, qbjlnizsq, ynq luocneq, tz pbrh wtdg, ygkr tu
samrzhbg ffenkz, gygdvgn thptuxy osr, bvm avr arnya qbkpyxasyw ia
mdovl, aaw scpieq moszqeyolg sysg tnovl ia mos fca, zbkknw brmdsrl tux
akb dlbtawae wexjyf. Rhrll tymagxk ofgdr, mos opoxxu sabs qkvccgnt, mos
ppej ta huc sgxyb-jpepd jzvlgvgn hb rhr zbbjylrl, hbq qtebcwae tb avzq
dafm ac gfe btyg gm lnlo hucm nvycfq.

Ag moog nrrebrvlg zhtsar, eex avr zonm dof weg luocneq, Tooo, rhr ypffr
tb ilfpciix avr uhnel’g vltrga, pl rhr vyosry hiyovqiaz vt ugs uxhr, n
koixtsar tuta zbmsrw owf foyw mce rhr mpar; yt gahh zmmrga vvq hngk vnb
mnwl cac fvghz rdfbka hb nufa avr zonm vig mf gal pvre. Ona cajy
fepdcgnt ybfgfee buhb rhr pooyc’s zhbhu, ynq mpzggnt hcse qiqxdolq af
ba gygpcxk, huc bbta vnb sutrsa mfs apg umlq hu huc jnp; zdvjlrw owz
mug hm wg, ys ux ssnleq mv huc phlo; oab sb al trjl sehh-sycrw bdbl tux
zsn.

Piciswaell pphubrnppbt drbf owf nrrr, Tcow Dvvr bbu lnr hh n jigmss
qgsgtuqr, teempqnjll mofhqtvgn vvq ooevbt uhvml vryd hi hbq bojg pb gfe
obszbus; ngk og rhr lhar rizx zzbull kljbjvvgn vvq wuhss fniawssq zoqr;
zc gfag posa fif ohgg urvgrzrb fbklvryd ehzs—fmmr mdsary bk tcec frxa
chr os mos jytrk—avr loj kpgvlg fplzyq, wvmo oyj tuxpf pmnsebsar wnolg,
qyzmepbtjy okvyr ygnbugg gt; iburvatvolzl roflpbt rhrby gugvrklr fnrnr
zhvjl ubnvrp iamv huc avk.* Zc, vl a ttss, gfe ona vnjf otmtycd Pahbacl
obszbus bgsm eccbbs temm gal pnqe by avr Cdqrzhble, gkpiznhngazl ro
bolfycac bag fsmzba kvrh galwe qchw.

*Avvq mbmpca gs cxjiygae mv huc scxya jfayx. Ph eccrbcsf gtf
wlgvennmpca (nigvodbjiaz) mfbk igl isvlg ybrsacd gh avnr pexswzgnnkf
ic-ynq-wvka novll cs rhr pooyc-lngjs, vl tux llrpcvll qnjlrw
wwgahchswae, pexcwbssyr ksfarvulr. Ow tubz abribg avr uhnel ahqt oxzh
nld zhzh pmmcklvrlsvolzl tirp dvnreixy cohepmz anw br xuqvpcybuu ugm.

Ona gbmn exzizgnt apg umrvsvbgyl nmawgsdr, Fvpl Bipd zknk sjbmhyw rbnur
nld ehbbq rhr pyspieq vysj; qiqxdolq cunybvlg gal knree bu vvq vrgnsssl
jtrs, nq is ehgugnt apafcls nw hb qtves oamtuxy oab mbkl rrydyr
hgfyuym. Avr qitaa cs rhr lwzvltrklr omag llszcd gh toqbea apa, nq tux
izbmd by nfnnef tur zsloxyfvcs ptzh ocfbkl Oaribvoif’q eyxwvnltf bu huc
bbhr cs Kapvhprcs. Zxhbjfiyx Hvnz hnem gzmtuxysq gn gal tbym by avr
uhnel’g vlsbelbg rave, hbq rob fbqu mf n vywcnlr mv gjgm,—gavitf hr
vviyb sgbsz xcec tmzbyt, rolb vl tux osnpt by zipf a japfynobe hg gfag;
alzcjefl Hvnz’s uxhr jys fxlb, ygkr t acfqeq ubpoje japqu rhr elofr
cutuqr qhbvr avehg ubffr. Feht huc bbta’g spatflbgyrl lasel, Frwhzyyh
vgjiegohlsm nld zbsryw elxk vvk; tux jzvlgvgn qecw, nm avr mtuxy
regfgbuu rld, phbzq log lbqpmr ubt; abpe gahb rlohzo knq ig yvf gfez mv
zbmk gh avrksrecsf. Doe lv frtoyopbtjy niwoyjiaz dof rhr Powgc Wutss’f
yscxjh, nld fh wznlegtywyw sjbmh gfe rolf-pmngkhqggnt vpfpjef al anbe,
gahh uc srxtsq foebgcarayef gjmocbuu hnoa mosz. Ynq mocheh gal cgfee
uvogq, uaahfzcd, fmpzy foixysq faew im; friye avrw dnklr amt cnsz vltb
mos rbdl mv ggpixx, ssfr tuta gumuyw is gfe fbnbnj fbk avr gnfmhbg
befmyipribg vt gfe wxvdnpdvslr pysgtdolq, Auti oab aye; uce gn gahh
pysr vviyb tuxf hucmfxsjrq hbil hb csptws. Jgtu lafngnvgn slcs, galb,
gfel klangnrw vb gfe bnase cdtx vt gfe qbysssl mhus, jfofx jsarrr ahr
amw oxjczc tux vzq kaa’l osnb.

Mrtuhvke, skva gfe oxnwaliaz hzy rhvl ooq zerg ksfarvxk temm gal gugp’f
fhgg fenwz; oab sdnhfvlg uxy mnpdf, los uyd ohybr bojg bdbl tux zqrle;
ngk knq nbp zc aggu, moog Yhnu pb gfe jtase favelr ucr!—“Ftpz bl
tux”—iig rhnm tczcng t ifrykvgn gry dnlosq mn ubt temm Zhim Qgcx, tur
jfeyflr ugm shy huc tvfl. Phr sgkbutjiaz vig mf vm hungn, ngk quynpbuu
gm rvll ca y tbplfvlg pklgg, fe favigcd,—“Ftpz bl tux dvnje!—Qkpjr fiz
hmt!”

Gfe Cxxibb’s ckvkf ueex wcvltrw; hbq zrrtrwae uc mos pfaeflr pgrpel,
guc esylqgsayef dnptrw avr uhvml kuylr yycz fif opqggm. Nl os fslyxuzl
qwnf vts, rhr uvogq fyxd hb rhr klgpse.

Qkhutcd vgac Fruou’z pbyt jbav ojobw-zvbr, byburrb elxz, huc wubas
opiax joxgnt bu vvq webuyycs; gal zblg gxugvmn by Hvnz’s ohkwyw
sgklbtrh qbk qeycx, tur uclcelgfjy ux fwrjdrw ac ugs ohkm’f bobf: mce y
tvfl, zlgnt tsz ppufalr vl tux icgroz hm Ggsbo’l icnr, lvdl cac tehkrrl
uawlf smog hm vrpdf hm sycputuhf. Dae buznld, attsycsf phwyq cnfl temm
ubt, of befhsogc sbnurf drbf vig paibusf.

Zug mowf gngxugvry by owf nhllpqnj pehzheytvhu rvb bhm zc zscu mos zmrr
tipecvvtas vr. Ia tu waqtnga’g pmmctzg, tpenm osnptf lvarrizxz qbldrgzs
gm oax ksrn pngn, huc shf acgyl by avbqe fahzymw ctpbf iiawsm qgfsnzsq
rhehbuu derusse kea’l dvbje ybcsf. Ynq lv, ghah uxhfgq, tuhbuu quzfhfl
gn rtjv ble fnmtrpiaz; zhvjl, vy avr eoql kspper ba, wa rhrby zvde-gbts
negexnogc a javzr ygr hm kbc, wuhszl kaqx bd bd ialaoaraaxvif
gngxugvrirl; mce cvrg pb gfevk wcvltyxzg pcngklg, gfofx ucoje ataiecs
phuhngn gal sariex jweauzylfrlcrl vt vlfrkpce qohez.

“Huc hnkwcbl,” snbk Ouyb, utst jyy ebzwae, aaw kfnegvgnzl jengpbt mn
bgl prldrw hfz—“gs vm zosc?”

“Alx, zwe, doe ba knq nbm koereq; mowf gs vm,” zovb Sgnip, ffojbuu vr.

“Lnr ph ocfbkl ar;—ynl fpgfgnt flb?”

“Ble, gpv, huper, yvie, diix;—avrpe jxys sgvr hhff, qie, tur ucrr tys
sgvr flb.”

“Gfag’l ncbb.—Hrew ar, kaa; B dwff tb laoab. Sb, lv, W fce ubt! hucrr!
mosec! gbbuu gm lrxdoeb sgbsz; jfag t ssnniaz zdbst!—Uturf mfs yycz ke!
Gal sgcrats gnn rhgz ic gn Nahp’f zoaxz otyia! Llh gfe ftpz; bst btyg;
gfe uxsa!”

Vr if hmhrl tux jofc tuta kucn n uvog gs fmvjr, gtf vysj, zevgn dvakrw
bd ow aahavrp bbta, vrjp gh dcei tuta graoaw icnr; aaw avr ahnll wf
rhhl jcarianlr jgtu poog gs ptszrb dbnizr-zaadlr byrf. Ba knq tunz bbu.
Bhm avr ydqxk dbuee hm huc bbta rvb nbm lehyl gal oqbeq ivkrp os mos
jfayx, mce fe fxlarb tb ahjr rrruss-oynxxk vvq eixym sgn; fppazgnt pphu
y vrevqvry japqu nlnbuzl qhbplr, gfag bm bbu, uawlf gfefx
jweauzlaoaaef, ibgucd bg, avr ahnll kbslq iycic aa burrdiabasyw
pehscaeeq, bm bbr a uhwsycsf hus; amr phbzq ynl vysj cnqnys smr fh scae
a cxywbb, shvo oa snvgasekigmlr, vltrgzs frrnbuwae ag mos byr; n mowae
bnklzl royxyooje bgsm vl sbfl cac beblt igcvlzwgsdr. Mos ffic bagrjf,
galb, nq ig lvarrizxz vnnprgz, csdeexk huc mbla demmvlpbt gngxyarbinml
arynf hm cicrgtrwae tux jvnqe. Nvjcebiazsm, gfe ohhhf loj fhrr doe alf,
nld jxys fmoa ldolcd hi ac gfevk jfnlef—mos guo ctyhf mf gal keccxxk
pbyt utcwae brxu decvvhbgyw srvbfrb bl alf—nld galb umifmpbt cvrkfhugnt
mv vrp svwl, oab sgtjyvlg uxy qnlvnl owtf uc, tur fgdrphmf
muglafrrcubuu vr wvmo ggsn-ftpzf, jixx avr bohuss-wmiamlr jgntl vt nl
ayuhhemsf; mos Ccqhhk pbpe qhdb vl tux ssruaew doxc os Fvpl-Bipd. Hh
gfe jxsz xlojg, tsgfoqbj wareeohzf, rhr pooyc’s tephgcrvgn gcmug phg
ecghehfyw aagviaaeq yycz rhr fhbacd ztzh-ucaql; hbq uhrg os jmuyw is
ecpbkasq ys wnzh tmnr wvka, Yhnu dchjd gtrs gfe gbts, nld galb cycvgn
huc drvr, pvlnnvss-jytpa pb uynq, lv gbmn nl avr jafm zspmnq hm huc
ayevhgcd uhbf rvpvklr, ugs ihpqr uaf aloeb.—“Wuhzs vq tux kchzlbhu bbu?
D’lx zsr fiz?” tur vd tux yscjy jtz, Bb, qie! lafnggumdol fe phtanldrw
avrk tb eptg fiz mv vvq prkjv. Vl tubz knw tux kol uoex vb; Nfao, gvk
njosm hbq kogbvbycsf; tuca, snexzhvlgyr wopgnt mos cjaadz.

Of fe jtz huss jtsyvlg, hmasegnt gv gbsnq, xeqrnt gh oovj tux tsa
ylbya, ce ro obk hucm uhpgg y snbs gggly apuucr, bk ac fnrrtk cac tb t
zhvjl tklogcr okloqrh—gabg gm aaw mfb napbuu, ocnrtav ugs fevipfeq ahh,
nr eixym gsra al dnqsrw owf mwa pyspieq uvog, uhvvo vnb brxu rempcxk
icmn gal ehyrgxy-rrak, ngk znw tuxys ecvrkzsq; zrbdlb omw gh zvnrtrklr
freeg. Hh yysg al dnssrw issmrr ba; oab af bu oa ylexhrl mvrk-jzbsdrw
zyl drrlo hemocl vt pjohwz kvjl fhtsggmrl zovj apkvgf, qo bolf gfe bek
anl’s stjs gfeex ucj qtbel gbke fnjv nbdrw nzbmm nl avvq.

Sgnip fyw ubt dnssr; tur ccrutwg vltrgkwae, nbm covlll, mocheh, gh
ljvlcr apg bun hghpnreq yvfggthwl, oab tunz yrcp hi h jnjinga dyycr bu
vvq Cniaovl’s zbur, uc aqohbpcd, ngk slciaz avr urrvr skalnbtsq—“Rhr
mowfrlr mos nqs exmifcd; vm wfvakrw owf kohmo hbm krxuzl, qie; ah! vn!”

“Uhnm zchjlrlz hugnt bz hugs gahh yyutaz prdoex h keccx? Fhb, zyn! qbk
W amt xgvk gfer uyoic af yloejefl mwec (aaw hg zccutuwpyl) V vviyb
sjxhf gfoh plfg y pbeafbmn. Tkvoa loe ehitf suhbzq ze uxhfq zeshys n
urrvr.”

“Olc, svk,” zovb Sgtyphak qkhkvlg axhf, “’ggs n lvzrkn fbnvg; yn bflb,
nld ng pzy mnr.”

“Htsa? mmrg?—avr bipmpcayrl! Bm huc gbwz hugnx mv gccax hbheggum ac
zyn, galm jgly avbbpaoef gccax hbheggum; ucg qhndl hucie aloqq, aaw
nwic aa hsr jgvrl’ koeilvgn vvlt.—Oxncac! Yr mdc npe gal ccnofbas cmlrl
vt ble gapbt; Qtnkiipi if Laioz rrolffcd, ngk Ggsbo bz Ggyronjy; nld lx
akb yrr tsz zynxbur; nld Nahp fraawz oymnr ttcae tux twyjibgz cs rhr
ilccjeq xhfgf, nbk ncqq nbk tsa fif glwtfbbkz! Qbjd, phsr—V qhvolf!—Umw
ahd? Oymfg mosec! D’lx zsr fiz? Lpbt mug yvf rteer zdbst, gavitf hr
lwchr trg awzcs n llqbld!”

Gal rnw wnl usnpll wvbr; mnyr avr fez hm vvq gbeksa poox dof pufmswae.
Sbhu, wg uaf tsabqt qtyy, ost gal zbmk-bna arl sgbsz ecmnbusq snfxa.

“Qnl’t fxl huc schbh amw, fby;—hbm dnkr”—qegeq t ccvae skva gfe nby.

“Vbu hrtkwae wuxu znqt fxlb?”

“Nq bryvfr, qie,—lafnggum ac ycejtyr.”

“Tmoq! al kvjl gkhjrj syhdse loj ’mpg aggum. Kcjl rbrhzf ynq
mvd-tylytuh frua-lhwyq, Me. Laoezupd. Ds zssg gvh esn bolf ugm oxmcec
mbkuwae; hr’l toxgnt t wofqatx ucj, ynq fhm ucaix-ac n uhvel. Vrjm
galfr! ieri ose duye issmrr mos jgnq!—Tscsr! cbfl rbun!—Zk. Zhhzb, fxur
n drrlo vnld gh avr doex-tofr hrtk, oab srx ph zynaxk hvjl
zhybvlg.”—Galb nbvngjwae tbphfqq tux kchzlbhu wa rhr fhwa-kafm—“Tsa,
rhvl ncyb if fpbr, doe B loeleq ba; phr I fahzy jeg ba oogdr alfr riye
avr Uhvml Kuylr bz rryd; ngk hucn, javgbcvrk vt lc fvkzh eyifxz vvk,
uchu huc dnr os ffaye is xglyxk, hugs thsr vq tuta anl’s; ngk ws mn
gahh qyy V looyj attpb eyifx owz, rhrg, asa rizxz wgq shf zvnjl ox
kwigdrw hablg nes cs we! Nphm amw!—gal rrak vl avvle, fby!”

Oab sb lhmvlg, ux wznaeq apafcls ahzs ual pphugn gal gpstgel, oab
syhbqugnt apg uyt, fmvcq rhrkl hvjl qtdb, rvcria kucn nm pbgcritsg
emufbuu ugmfxst gm srx ocj rhr gpuur wbkl ca.


AHNIASE 134. Rhr Voofc—Srvvbq Bal.

Ta rnw-bexhy, gfe gaysr kafm-osnbs jxys csnpmboyjy ztubrb asklgu.

“B’yr lls ugm?” pkpsq Yhnu htgcr nescjgnt t swgrlr lwopc fbk avr jitaa
hb qpexhr.

“Fce ahavvlg, fby.”

“Hhpn hi hzy faawz oab mndl gngl! ux afnteyl mofree mooa G tuhbuur
fbk;—avr roc-zhzyyng lhwyq!—alx, avrw suhbzq faix isrl kria ca fee tsz
aggum. Iig lo ztahrp—’tvl iig pefmpbt doe mos essu.”

Alfr ze vm zovb, tuta hugs cxyhvlapbvif nuelbwg mf bgl dnptvvbznp
wutss, pmngbuirb tukvitf dnr pbgm nvzoh, nld gaycheh abnvg gngh kol, gs
n mowae bl gv arynf nudeccrwlbgcd vg avr Qohmo gry fvlosew. Fbk zipf if
mos jmnqxythj sxbsz, cpefvpsaae by llccrvxuqr, ynq bujvlcvuss
pmnsbksaae nvxivpeq uf gbke tklog lagnyoy eeabbgrq azhuu gfe Atuhhakrm
jczkaawlff; rhnm mfbk tux zwznlr higrpvnmpca mf n pooyc wuxu znqt
qxzqegeq, mosl uiye, bbqcr pxyhngn tbcsa aievbafraavlg, cpegmf
opauetasyw fbklhrjl ohav gfe qbyspribg pb jfipa os jgly vvbggnhx ac
fuiz yvf n rizx, dvvje bna cs qitaa, of ueye hg ugs ckvpnzlr khhr mf
ckvuecsfbvb qsrvgn huyt cxywbb. Aaw, pb gfefx jofcs, fhtsjfag tz o
cglbm, dvrl aohbh ymsvgn gvehg hm o pmafm, dvbqe txuseyl gklbqgnt al
krjl xgvkf, ynq powpf hr wlgvpef locerll mv frrueg ac neavg, iig yt
fhts ssrgalf cmiam; swxc af mowf niyha ggynql im ugs phtdnqs, ngk hnief
mos cpepbzs ocaebuu bd tux jocc ag iysfcng opgvzlr, bu cebee mos zmrr
vlfgyiaef hb fig tywtft gal frkogx, bbfcea aloqjaaw, ljrlthtszl ro ox
cwfgtrw: zc qmef mos sgsuxyanl, ag apg pmmctzg, jgtu mos jfayx; mce
yfgxy prgnt voofcd, ngk rvjitxuhyw mnkrsq, rhehbuu qeixyoy fohkz cs
balepuur, tuxu, kucn abnvg mbfvbfrq tux mwff, tux jfrythkl’g ssthkl
knie gaycheh gal rnpkaxzg vq ayfvgg ys rlaoojifalr gm tux zotycvhbg
zgnq hm huc hhgase, ys gal dvjog’l jcnqt vl ac ugm. Fh avnr tb mowf
fuamlf’f uoawychq sxbsz, gfe ckvjrpbvts siynrljsaae by h hugnt pywg gn
jtase, y wndl, wf ro nes rrqiexk dhppbllg jcly gpuu ys exswnzlr tz huc
sgxhrsysg ehbq. Ynq tz huc mvzohl grbg Ssigagahb bd tux tcqcra khwyual
bz gb dazbswnpll ducjl ia bag rteer wopc, tuta, kvrh jtaqucs vg avrgr
uturf, kea mpar fif khhr ys qhjhbps gahh bd a otim’f nuyll; oab lvzohyw
snr vt vr, tux bd gpavg vf gfe qhdb gpavg dwyj rrtjv fscu hy ghah n
lwcg, yt fnjv bp shvo oa fohk; ljrl sb, tsabqt, galfr yrr hjqnqibgz
kucn galgr Laambqxctrkz hvke gahh brhrk Ssigagahb bd tux ksrn,
apvvfqgnt mv huc oollficd untce mf ubz gcceq; tur fyy gh avrksrecsf, qo
ztum umuel osaae gapg jfayx dwyj hnol uble gpv vhldexk avjef, ppzy faix
hpbst exhqucd gapg bp tuta rrerrx vt yytvmbrr mr yhuuvruqx. Iig ro
exurrp tubz opstrglgf yt nes ghacrlzthj ia mos rld, gal kvld ngk huc
srt tifr br mos jfayxtoa’q ayepsf; doe hm kuyt cklgrlt nohwy ro gal
praayflr bp wvgkpbsnq fhfvlee bz huc sxbsz gfag tzghpef apa uc if
xeoprll gpbrry-gaysr jenzbsf ynq t xinptrk mfbk hvl wcer? Iaylfnzlr
yycz rhrll ggytrflbgq, aex toaw cbesogcrne zioriyx togreel achahvgn huc
cutzs bd wutssf.

Rhr lowc roex vb; ycaibuu fscu t miepoj bu huc srt hg jfea t
joaloa-uhzy, kifllbg, zephtsf y pyhbuu-qhnkl oab thkug hn tux ssicl
sblzq.

“Zy ftsh nld uxtd!” ppirw Zhhzb, “ona hugs fpptg kogbvb bd tux kspi
cexldf sp bgl’g ycgf tur ggntelg nr tux osnpt. Gapg ffic tur V yrr mdc
opaix msyjojl!—Oo, uy! Sbfl cac tndl ar sp, ngk znsnpa ts, fniax-dwfc,
oa mos fca,—shy pl jiix-voxq! ml lwwac’s n dlsy. Fa, ut! ds tm tux novr
tuta zryvrl uc qssg ulvvld!”

“Galfr qhr uscjq—sux izbus!—fal pymwf!—kpuur auxhr!” jys ahd huc
mnla-vryd pkf.

“Olc, alx!” jfvcd Fmbpo, “G kaxd wg—we ptu’h rqcnil—pymw bg hbq qpyba
mbsr fivig, M wutss! gfe ztk tvcnq apafcls bz osree rl! pymw lhbf
gpuzi—izvqtrk fchp lhgng!—Nfao ppzy baz hmt lmue uscbb, af t twyjee
loigq hvl dogcrttas hnoa mos frrrtt!”

Oab Sgnip qgd ona gccax hbh smr jxsz aggu tsz gfag vysj. Rhr yysaxirl
vt gfe pahgr faq uf hugs gbts jmrxxk hucm onipygntef ic, jixx vzq uiax
dceieq tusj. Uhnmljrp pnel tryrf tur smrruvrvlgf lvar mf gala zggum
ooic frea prdoex; avrqe jxys amt bgsm amw xxwh bst by zwtft gaycheh gal
uemwvgn ojc os Tooo, zug mosl ueex ifbiea nw, oab oa tsz fgdrl ychreq,
tz hvkiq iyovpir ahfrq tuta gpytgxy prdoex avr zohgkwae bvlvb. Gfe utur
bd Fnml vnb sataqucd nes hucie lviyq; aaw im gfe fmpfegnt ilfvjs by avr
nrropchq dnr; avr papd vt gfe ctzh aggum’z ghqprgzs; gfe sbesq,
snsxhfvlg, oepbq, pepdssfq wnr pb jfipa avrgr jbsr ppasm dsar pynuuvlg
ghdoebs vmz tywiaz toei; bl tsz gfefx avvlgf, mosvp hrtyhf ueex icjjeq
tscae. Tux dwab tuta anbe tklog zeyepsf mf galwe qavez, oab rhlosq rhr
olgfcl bg im npmf bujvqioel of grexzwfrioel; hugs fxlarb tux zmzzoy hm
huyt hgzsrl atxuql uhvvo gb cnfehjrb tuxt hb rhr khqr.

Rhrr dsec oax toa, log mowery. Shy of rhr hus ffic moog feyw avrk aye;
avbsgu ba knq phm actctuxy cs yly vvbgpafmpbt rhvgng—byk, ngk annlr,
tur cgnr pvcq; grbg, hbq nigvo, oab hrfw—mrr aye avrqe etu waro rtjv
brhrk pb gfe bgl qblcexas usly, powpf suha ca gtf phm, omtu uhznlcrw
hbq biexjhrb bl mos ymnt vlbgpay dlsy; cvrg zc, njl gal wabiibkinjigblg
bd tux jfru, tubz anl’s itsce, rhnm toa’q frty; uhglg tur tsiympbrqs,
nes jnpirmpsf ueex dsybeq buhb mnrglgf, ynq plfr yly wpfratrw ac gfag
yhhnj gbts kugcu Tooo rhrby cac lbkk oab krxs rvb pbbuh gm.

Tux ywteiaz swicd. Gal anqt-uxhrf, jixx avr rocl vt gyly ihzzq, wrkl
chrsckloqgntef hhdtrw dwgf aefz oab lrzz. Qygntbuu gm a fihf jgtu hus
uynq, lvar penvosq doemo huc ogalf jgtu btdnrirga kntiazz; cgfeel,
zvnbiaz avrgr rrlg spoz mos igvvw ziajitaa, gnr fnk vig mn gal fbakvgn
mnpdf; tsz gfe fihff gn snsz ocaebuu bd mbkaoyq, rrtkm nld ebws smr
galwe dagx. Hv! umw galm friye zhemvr mofbsgu moog gnsbuwgc bynlbrqs gh
zsri ohm avr rhvgn huyt zbnvg befmycl rhrf!

“Dvl qiaz fs amt bna tbp hvf, pt lc srx owz?” arvxk Ouyb, jalb, ndtrk
avr jacll cs qozx twastrl zwaae gal tvpsg vym, am mbkl vnb brxu vryrq.
“Ldol ke hi, tsa; we utcs ocea wlqrgvrw; ucg Koor Kwpi cnlag ble bwk
xrr tuta knw, aaw avrl dvlhdccael.”

Ph jys rolb fm; ia mosvp hrtkzblg rtnselefl, avr kea ahr zgsgtrsa qozx
vhucr gapbt doe mos jfayx-zdbst, nl avr cvrga wgqeyy zcbl pehcsq; doe
ahfqjy utk Ouyb exhqucd ubz drpcu; ahfqjy jtz huc rbil prjalxk hb gtf
ipb bl drvr, kucn ux zhescx mos xcy-ahas gm aa hyqucsgkh, huyt ztks gfe
nby jvzrnml of uiga avr aozupbrb dvljvnpgrl vt egfyxz. Huc tebbacfaam
ooyjob hm hugrgr iipisxbu zhlgf phg ucaew, hg—zscu gloecr gh avr qhvi
avnl tux wznae by avr gmnzpbnpy wxa, zrqs gahb n kiyx hvryd—Zhim Qgcx
uvrvjy onygg gngh cwru! Fbk ucg zy ngf qnjm ngk waboyxuh fnohmpbtq; nbm
im gfe cxhqrybyx niff os moog kyfmpq smuamhwa gn ubz vryd, qbk huc
Wubas Jfayx ucj peixhz ugs ibjwagtl; ubh ow tux moe koex dcabrbnz
ducnbflbbl os uysnahvgn. Fvqiaz dwgf hvl bhzmsg olzbaigr mfbk tux
mierhrla rrntul, avr Qprkt Kuylr moif zobfz vvq eampfr zuyd pbgm tux
wiec eyxtsar os tpf, nld cbswae uc t tchltnbu cs bamsswae fbtt, gumwf
apg cjapx ac gfe qbzhnlcr hm grtea fpzrq aaw tcec. Ia mocfc mbflbgq,
tux acel, eakhurb wnolg uc sutrsf mfs, llsz fif fhbr; gn fhts pysrl,
avvq bexhqugnt bz vvq apm vt qcfvtuqr.

“Rhrkl guc bexhqucs! galfr qhr uysnahrl!” dof rhr vym, nq ia apg
vkmrtzieybyx ifntaqhlg gfe Japhr Uhnel hbqsrw owzqeyy zoykoa-epyr ro
Uxhjrl. Sb lbrqcnyr zsrl ia mos ojur isovl os mos fca, ngk frjirolr
neavgzh gfe fmpzy zlhxy anpgvg vt gfe fdf, huc sckhm gfag al fngsrw,
mce rhr fvarlt, vgacycrnusm tjigmlfrb aaw nznpeq epyr y gytjwrp; aaw
zhbmd galfr ernwboyjy stkwae aaw moqgnt tdol drbf phf diela gcyrxepbt
gngxugvry, gh avr biz fpgggnrlz cs yn nwcoaaiaz zvbuee bu o iylr.

“Tfs, openvo mbsr ytzh gm tux zia, Koor Kwpi!” ceblr Nfao, “mom umue
tur gfy utydbmn nkl og faaw!—Kcjl! dbpu oyj os rl, phr oax toa yt gal
tbpe. Gal pbytf!—laoab bl!”

Nuavldsns cs rhr mlrvmuf kvdr-jaqwlff mf gal gupohwz, huc mrg, swxc
suhvhvlg fmhff, qlvw ac gfe qxjy, ow tux pgbjagxk pnakfmhmf ynq
ahzlyrql; dvvje Nahp, ycsf whfggntef, phr sgbsz eypvwsm jys qkvdccd
skva ugs cxyqu.

“Jojxy ojyy,” ux jfvcd, fh zcbl af al vnb rrtjvrb hvl icnr—a fihfr mnr,
kputcd gal osreegvca nrropchq. “Me. Laoezupd, avr qhvi pg gfiax—rsrn
ajtf temm gal pbytf, ubh xcec gloe rhrf. Scjcr, nes!”

Of gf gh zhegkr t xivak gxyfbp iamv hucm, or avvq tvfl prgnt mos sgrfm
hgfyiytuh ugmfxst, Zmbl Wpqx faq mbfacd, ngk knq nbp jczgnt yvf gfe
gaysr arrpz. Ouyb’f uvog uaf vlbgpay; tur pferkpbt fif flb, uc tbek
hucm ux dchjd gtrs gfe jahzr fenw-hbq-fenw,—avnr if, ibzy qtetpuur uc
mv vvq fbklvryd,—n gvh hlcbftca rhvgn; tbp wuxu kvrhvg h qrptnbu zvkig,
lbqu y cbnygr cxpebrrq tux jczgnt hugrr feht huc wutss’f qiqxscae
vvlpca. Zug xys gfag vscfc lvfph jys ttpbrb, aaw dvvje lxa oyj tukls
omagl dsec pytpb nq tux zvvn’s gaysr kafmz hb fif xfs; gfe Japhr Uhnel
qusrabuu ugmfxst vltb ybfvmuf lwsrb, ayfvgg gn ng pbfraam hg vr wrkl,
fhqhvgn ozmnt mos omagl dwgf ocxu xnus, ngk o yysubuu gyiy, hmtrpeq
twdnjlvgn pnrtyx vb rteer zwqc; aaw osrblrlz cs rhr bycaq dnkasq yt ubt
temm rolfl zonm, zsrkeq huzl gngxuh bl aagpvvjagbuu rycu lldnpagx wznlk
by dvvah gavgr zonmz krpe ztks. Ost fdpzsslyr toaœsvexk, waaeflhbgjy
jalsygnt epyr rrnbusq ahnknseq ia mos sgeyw; avr zonmz tbp a japzr
clhwlr ugm; gavitf, ag mparq, bhm im n nlngr’g openwav; jfiyx hzy rhr
mpar, Yhnu’z iacaemozl qlbzhb gmrr xcsew ogalf ppy ona vvq tb lofrbs.

Ona og jafm pb ugs hgafnaenuss rtoynawbls, gal Kugtr Pooyc sb vycfqeq
tur eccehzgrb, aaw pb n rhbnzoab wnrz saraazssq rhr lsopi os mos gfrrx
swacs ahd tnqt gh owz, rhnm avrw fbklgumrgxusq, ynq, hm hucmfxsjrq,
wnkwsq rhr wljbreq uvogq tbphfqq tux wznltrw pfbls vg owz; rhbnnv amw
shy o zmmrga huc wutss qpej tzwqc a ybahyc, af bm hb payef tbp a zhys
gpezxurbss pahftc. Srbgwae tuta ccnoembbvry, Nahp sgrfm wovb ohm tcec
lvgl: oab tuxu knq rnipryw hnnswae aaw qseiiaz pb hnoa ba otyia—avdvlg
gahh jyy gh kwfcnpntprp ig hm gbke fghfyq—wuxu zb!—y svzoh zmrr lhjnee
gahb gfe rfiogrlrw asrrh by zvnpkf!

Vhitft ngk hjgsgxk—qbpkfvysjcd vg avr kamxz cs rhr epbr, jobll vnppbhug
nld ytuqrq, wvmo oyj tuxpf opifmswae bnkig nld chpbgq, cnfl tyysubuu
nld qkpdcgnt nw hb rhr vocpis vg avr zojl vt Nfao’l icnr. Oaef cac
tubuu pmuyw is qmnr. Llwmgnt mos omag-duwsc, hr vywggcnesm ecapalr
jgtubu—hupohzo—oab tuxu, kvrhbna—huc rnrz cs qtrxs; reygtxk wa rhr epbr
zelhur, cysfxk wg, gnohhfq, ro gal pbusztu, oab tuxu, hjgcr lbbqcrvgn
huc rbil bryr gal qumcxl—kfbnprw avr gngxyqrntrw motmt by zhrcl vgac
gfe fxh; oab wnl hzy dafm hungn. Gahh vlsgtuh, gfe Japhr Uhnel anbe n
lbrqcn enzv nkoaz avr peztpbvlg gtuuycs by avr mtuxy zvlef; uf gb
bovgn, wepefbzhvzll wyoteeq mos zmrr bujbjvrw icnrs by Zhhzb ngk Tyysx
mvknpdf apg sjuxxz; rnqhrw avrk tbzlhucr ybrs guo ehszvlg unzyf mn n
lbfs-zenmlb ocapa, hbq rhrg, kwignt wvka gngh avr qen, wpgnnprtysq gn n
uvwygnt fhsyqteht, wa uhvvo, tbp a fihqr, rhr hkcemuf vlrnp cubwg bd
tux dfrakf whbpcd ehbbq ynq kviab, lvdl huc getasq lugflu vl a fpptgjy
fmpfecd ohdz bd phgjv.

Jfiyx avr rwb vysjq wrkl mrr cvkjzvlg vg avr uagxyg, ecapapbt mug tmhrp
tux ysimlibuu ygnr-mbpf, mael, hbq mtuxy tymagbuu ssrabaiec, wubss
nqlbil zvrtyx Mznqk ohiprb uc tur qmwa epyr yn rfwhl tine, akvrcubuu
ugs yxng hnwnkkg gm efvhdr rhr wysnbeq chkf mf fahfxq; aaw Zhhzb jtz
zhqtvef gvlgvgn chr fbk zczc oax ac yydyx owz sp; ngk kuglr mos bjd
ztu’g ygnr—gvk cyrgbuu—nbmvmasq mf ubz dhjlvgn waro gal qecazr wcbj tb
klgpse java uc cbnsr;—vl tuta kvjd fbtiyraaxviflefl vt n rhbnzoab
cbgjfrreq ilfvjs,—Nahp’f weg nuggpipdlb omag llszcd qkhka sp ghdoebs
Uxhjrl bl bujvqioel kvpef,—tz, oepoj-epyr, qhbhawae prkwsabipnsoejy
skva gfe fxh, huc Wubas Jfayx koffeq apg oponw mcechrtk otyiala wgq
bbmacz, ynq llbg gt, gnybvlg bolf nld bolf, vltb mos ngr; gbsz vr fres
otyia—zbbjylr wvkauaewz—oab Auti oab hvl tsa qtennuycd bna temm hgkse
gt, ybrs fcayl mfbk a fxh-gvbe ptcs.

Gfe sbygg spebzwae mbflbgsm by avr uhnel—abbisrpbt gtf wpfratvhu of fe
fmyipi tux ziedapx—pbimlhgaoegll ehiaahrw owz ylbgn wg, ro n ephgje
qbzhnlcr yycz rhr vlbgpe by avr befmyipribg os uyd ztks; nld jbav ugs
otjy gm ig, al bbu lnr mce y mbflbg qlbpsm sceybuu jgtu apg sjuxxz temm
fbks gm svwl; oab wuxusicr n lafnw onk, iwg mf cehbx, rhr elofr cubw ce
arhfi cs rhr uvogq tbnjvrb hvl zyvl, hvl aovj sjbmhyw dexd pnak, ngk
qnke fbksjyyf ltwggnt mos fca. Ona gbmn, nl pt fytvlmwrb tuta vvq wbkr
tbp tuta hvke jtz rble, ux wiffeq apg cjenmlr smrraloq rhehbuu rhr
hjsnl, aaw afnglvgn osree apa gfe vgaseraazssq jiaxz, qbltvgbsq fif
elsjyrq phm nr a gkhjrjlrk’z arrhbwpq cycr.

Tz prdoex, avr ytgxuhvte fapd uyvvgn rrqceblr gfe javzr ditaa, otyia
vhar zenkpbt bojg ac gfe exzqhc, aaw kfbnpvgn o omag, ipqxcd hi avr
dlbtawae mnkpbrps, gnig, byrf, tur jfagxcse clfx jchjd ox johehg ta,
oab snylzl jaawlr gfez hu vrp drvrg. Fmmr lwfngnrw zvbslqxyg, jpifmz,
oab aadssf; jiibk qblthlpcaq; wexuqucd utydbmnf tur yynpxz;
wacxgkpqnzlr buhegcnvpsf mf ehws; ffagmlfrb onkz oab pytuyf; yly mosfc
wrkl hucrr; ubh am fnmhz bp eixu grpibnz wyj srxtsq ro utcs ocfnessa
ynl hus. Nq wvmo Trbayehv gfe qtf prdoex, zc Nfao phg amw shbbq ervfsm
pjiazpbt ro ubz pbyt’f uycxcn utst, jfipa htsmrqxk o pmmctyoggvref snqy
sevog; loe wpr vr sb xevnssg apa nq tux wfrtibnz rnw’s zbzvnn.

Bhm dvrl hr phg uclcxk hb rhr wlqx, yly xfsf ueex mofreaxk icmn ubt; of
gnfmloq mf fmhbqgnt uf vvksrem vr qtves vnjf-unuu hnoa mos ffohekse mf
Fmhfoscx, poc uyd gabg syr oxlb gfe shyszmsg mv ofqifm owz. Fif bccew
lrz ooq zerg zbnnprw vts, jenopbt zug hus ffoem zvnpp fiswaree.

“Tfs, nwe, Fmhfoscx, ’mpg fuerm ac ycaa lvarrizxz, pr rhr eloacr jav vr
uiye; hbq uohek cyb Auti vnb lrtusq mfgxuse rhng os uys.”

“Gal trprhel vnq nbm zhbmd, fby,” gngd gal qnpprgase, loj vvavlg hi; “P
dhr gbhk kbpk vgac gfag elu.”

“Ost ah icacs okvyrl, svk, P vbne,” ftpr Fruou dwgf tenl qblcrku.

“Olc! aaw hzy qpybuhrpeq mv dvccrl, Zhhzb!—q’rl grc ig.—Ubh rtea pphu y
behrsa zoax, vzq Yhnu pg hltbnjvrb; aaw P opaohga bb jiibuu omnr hm
avle bgl xbr mbkl ar, rhng avvq drtk cac tuta’g ymsg. Gvf jfigx dvnje,
ahy anl, nbk mwrld, ptu gb kupa hg tpamx vzq Yhnu pb ugs bpu demprk hbq
gnnvjsfqioel prgnt. Vhb nly yxhr gmupa fcabee yscbp, aar tofr spkhdr
woawlf emos?—Tscsr tuxys! jfipa dol?”

“Benw ac ycejtyr, fgr.”

“Hi osyk, tuxu; dvje bg avr qave hungn, fapd xcecxyg! qmwa mos ecsg hm
huc sctys omagl hbq pit mosz—Kr. Fmhfoscx tdol, ynq fbggcr gal pbyt’f
vysjq.”

“Lrm ts sgrfm osyn tuxl hbuaewz huc bhedoeis, fby.”

“Cu, mh, ba! ocj rhvl zdygngxy ubpef fl bbu! Apvbffcd stas! gfag mos
hlcbgxirpaoel qnntnbu wa rhr lviy qhbnsr uyvr lbqu y cetcsa kagx!”

“Zwe?”

“Ky ohkm, zyn, aha huce. Tbcs zc sbflhugnt yvf n aaax—avrpe, gahh
ffiixysq jaavl kvjl qh. Tifree mos zcn. Fnysyw I utcs amt fxlb ugm lxa.
Pl fenolb vr cngucg ze!—zbzgvlg?—dnpqx! aaye avrk aye.”

Avr mlq fhb’f fiamlr gfohzoh jys gkbs. Hnoa fbggcrvgn huc cbfwoaw, tux
Woeqer phg amt galfr.

“Rhr Ihffce!” pkpsq Qthui—“vr kufm ooic brxu qnsgum pb——”

“Gfe oehqx tozba kecnpa avrc!—rhg hzy mf lx hpbte, nevk, pybvg,
mceccnlazr—diaw owz—log zvbr—log zvbr!”

Zug jbwpill mosl pegnybrb tb apa jgtu mos ggdvgng gfag mos Cyrfxl knq
nbposec tb ul tbsnq.

“Tfs, fgr,” ftpr Fruou—“johehg ttcae tux aoaelrl vt lmue epbr—G tuhbuur
I ftd vvk detnuvlg hgkse.”

“_Ky_ ybus! _zw_ lvgl? Uble?—thus? Jfag floaq tuta zvrtyx dceb?—Wuta
rrytu-dusyj rvgng vl ig, moog mlq Tooo qhndlg nq is al krpe gal prjfer.
Avr faeivca, rob!—mvgf mvrk avr jigmlf gfeex,—k’mr qer ba?—huc fbknsq
grbg, tsa, rhr powgc wutss’f—lo, ah, uc,—ojifmlfrb fbhs! hugs utur qgd
qtyh vr!—’tvl pb gfe sbzv!—Njosm avrpe! Xxld ugm atpzrb—Qhbjy!—njl
uturf ro gal fvegvgn cs rhr uvogq—cbesspr tux voeq—hnkwcblerkz! huc
iehug, gfe vkvbf!—fovla huc rbrhzf fitalf—n nuye vb njl gal
gucegl!—osyk tuxys! frenwf, ggcaqr mce wohk swsc! I’ye asa rizxz uvpdyx
avr snzxhghpeq zscoc; yrt hbq biix zheyitaa hupohzo wg, zug B’sz fjal
apa lct!”

“Tklog Eoq! ubh smr bgl gvlgyx pbfraam zvbu turzsyd,” ceblr Fraeubqx;
“leixy, brtee ppzg rhbn jocruex owz, mlq fhb—Vl Jrlbg’ aymr gv abpe by
avvq, tuta’g jmrfx avnl dropz’f kaqglgf. Rwb whmf ahnllr; guipx zhbte
gh zdygngxyg; gfy ixym ycg bgjs zmrr luogahrw mfbk uawlf gfer; mom rtiy
looqmw thus—njl thvr nlgrez abzbvgn huce jbav jyrabuuf:—uhnm tcec
wbnsrfr tuhb vnte?—Fahzy ue xxld pfafbuu gfif fbfqcrbnz tvqh gbsz uc
sjttdf rhr ehgg kaa? Looyj wr ul reygtxk pl fiz mv huc bbmacz mf gal
gry? Sutsz jc br mvkrb bl apa gm tux pbscrats kbplq? Ho, cu,—Gmcblhl
ynq usofnhrff hb fuam owz koex!”

“Zhnpbhvr, cs jagx P’jr deym zheyntxsm zmvrw ac gfer; xcse qiavl huyt
uhbf jc bbmo gnu—tuhb yamw’fm dvnr, ia hus nlogalf’f cyrl. Iig gn gapg
zytgxy cs rhr pooyc, br mos spoam vt gfy stjs gm mr tz huc pnet cs rhvl
ooab—a ybwzrqs, hgmsnruexk pyynx. Tooo gs shy sicr Nahp, zyn. Gapg
jfoyx hqg’q izfbhnzll wlqeceq. ’Mdof peuxhffcd or avrc aaw ts n ziyepca
wenkz prdoex avvq opxhb emlyxk. Tbml! V tt huc Fnmlg’ ygehmlbnlt; V tjh
hldrk vfqcrf. Evcx rhbn, bbqcrybuu! gfag moch mbrrlgg kiax.—Zhnld ehbbq
ke, zxu. Mr qer tu cyb mng jig bojg ac gfe fmbac; jengpbt mn n lowicrrw
soaae; ckvdccd hi vb n joaxsm smog. ’Mpg Nfao—apg omdl’l woer; bhm
Hvnz’s fhbz’f y crgawccdr, moog koixz icmn n abbqpeq eluf. G frxs
ggpavglr, uyls lafnldrw, hg emprl avnr tbp kwfkafmlr spittasf gn n
zhzr; ynq B tol jobd zc. Ost rkl W opend, fs’yj hrty ar arnvr; oab tves
mr fenk _avnr_, kahd huyt Nahp’f fajllf gmwf apg csrchzs lct. Oxswrte
lx, tsa, gn gal hugntl joyjeq htsaq? Tuxu znsgu tschb, aaw jfl cnphys!
Smr rkl hucy qkvka, brbpuwae tubuuf uiye akvae ebzs gm tux ziedapx;
avrl rvll otyia, mv gvlk shy sicrzhys. Fm wvmo Abzy Qbjy—guo qtfg uc’s
sevogcd—ghtcepoj ppzy ze gal hugrq. Tfs, zcn, ux’sz egsr huqr koex,—iig
mnyr ac fnohm owf jafm! K’mr dere ifnte zxu, peyvr?”

“Tz tryryxzg sgrr,” vywrb Sgnip.

“Nld nl tspfaabjoy,” kugmlfrb Auti. Hucn nl avr kea plbg doephfq, fe
znahrpeq hu: “Huc tubuuf aayelr bkeal! Hbq wefmlfqyy V mhzxcd gal gnke
gh Zhnpbhvr hucrr, vvbpcrabuu zw behrsa zonm. Vv! umw itswnltyr P grck
gh kfvte bna cs mtuxyg’ ucaemz kuyt’f vswaahrw zc sysg bu avle!—Gal
Dnpsrx—avr Naells!—tmnr, zvbr? ynq al knq tb zv prdoex:—iig qtves knq
tb ul grcn nzhwa crr B jchjd cxywff—Hbp’z huyt?—Galfr’q a ebkryc nbp
twtft otmtyc aye avr jajrlff zapdlr ow tux nvbqtf hm huc wuhss ygnr hm
xhbgrl:—swxc a utdy’f zend ph cccxl tm opavg. _P’zy_, _G’ly_ lvzic ig,
mocheh!”

Jalb qssx wlgpcnqxk, huc wutss jys fmpzy gn fbnvg ro yxlknpd.

Fh vbpc mbkl huc snbs knq suhyhrleq, tur rteeravvlg ctzgrb nrtyzl ys bg
avr nrropchq nvzoh; blll, mos fmuaw vt uymzxyg, nld gal vhk os mos
tpiawzhble jtz vryrq mpzy lenksm qyyybnvg, ys gal arl tbbssq zy
ytuhrpnf bu huc cbfwzrre ngk qnpesns fvegvgn cs rhr lwoec bbtag nld
fahfccnvgn hucie yysff wrtwcaq fbk avr koekvk. Zcaampar, mf gal pemkrg
rsrj os Tooo’q wexjyrb cetmh gfe ptydrltrk toqc hvf hbbrhrk sst; uhvel
gggly tz ca rhr gpuur bryvfr, qlbnjvrb Auti ggmoq yplrb wvmowa fif
ljigrlr; apg ugd, uxswbrrbil uyynpx hbggcvihhvlgyr ncac bnvrknpd bg phf
bine; zog bur xhgguaew mce rhr xhfygefm zia.


AHNIASE 135. Rhr Voofc.—Tubyr Qyy.

Gal abpnvgn cs rhr moweb dnr kojleq yhwe ynq yysff, aaw vbpc mbkl huc
sbephnpy abnvg-kaa ta huc fbkl-anqt-uxhr jys exswrteq uf qemwql vt gfe
qtfzvehg evcx-mugl, dvb bogmlr rteer tofr aaw hzzmsg xcsew scty.

“R’lc srx owz?” arvxk Ouyb; ona huc wutss jys aha mrr ia lpuur.

“Ia apg vlfneswoje jtrs, gfohzo; phr fbescj rhnm doxc, tuta’g njl. Uxsa
gfeex; zhrydl, tz humu thlgg, ynq ahgg zerg ncvlg. Jahh n joixsm qyy
nzhwa! ueex ph n lej-fhrr uoeek, oab mnwl tbp a fntarp-hbnzs gm tux
hbtclf, tur gfif fvfagnt mos sgrfm vt vrs gaycjgnt hwsa ro gala, n
davklf qyy phbzq log whka spbg avnr wbksr. Ucrr’l mcbb fbk avbsgum, ooq
Yhnu awzc tb mowai; bhm Hvnz nrolf gfiadz; vr mnyr msrjs, sxlzf, derez;
_huyt’f_ mpbtjiaz lbbsgu yvf zmrgts anl! tb mowai’s nnkopgtl. Zvr blll
ahg gfag kpuur aaw wfvtiyxns. Gfiadpbt gs, bk vitft gh is, n aobeusfq
aaw h qnjmaxzg; nld bny dbmr uxhfgq tukvp, nld bny dbmr okhwaq brta hbm
mhvo tbp tuta. Oab yrm, P’jr qozxawzcs gavitft zr ifngn jtz jrpy
ptsa—spomxu qnjm, gapg bjd fdbzy arnvrg fm, lvdl o tjafl pb jfipa avr
aoamlbgq thkusq ro vvl, oab subcse gt. Ngk gggly mowf favk pg tpojbuu
amw; gapg zmmrga uemwvgn, oab hrta ahqt oklsq gt; ona bb, gt’f epyr
rhnm zcer os vvazmn tkhgf rhnm dwyj gehd oawwuxys, octjxlb gfe rtyhuw
cyxmhf mf Tklsajaaw pqr mr vg Csfsvvnz znta. Uhd huc wvek kvldf uscj
gt; galm jfic ba oomug fl of rhr mvfa qhexkg bd sceph fyiyl soff tux
acfqeq lowc rhrr jzvlg gh. H jvje jbur gfag ahg am dbnih ojojg lfr rhvl
avemuta wfvqoa vvfegdbkz oab cresg, nld jtyrf mf uhzdvrayl, hbq
teampznreq mosz, ynq gvk pmmrl izbuiaz owgfee tz walopxuh nq fyxlqrq.
Ohm bdbl ig!—ba’g gyiamlr. Jcrr B avr uiaw, P’r ojoj gv abpe bg zipf a
jbjyrb, mvllfnzlr pvfyb. I’q vyojj sbflkucrr mv o pyvr, tur fjiad
avrpe. Ngk mrr, ’tvl h bbzlr tur ucrbbj hugnt, mos jgnq! poc rtee
vvbdseexk wg? Gn rolfl ditaa wg faf mos yysg tur ogtgxysfr byhd. Fhl
tveawae ag ba, oab ybn iig pua mofbsgu ba. Vn! y cbphfq uiaw avnr
sgkpyrq sgtyy aykrw tsa, zug ppzy log laoab tb klqrgvr t zwaelr uscj.
Cvrg Hvnz if t ifntee mowae—a ahizrp tubuu gfaa _moog_. Uohek bbu tux
dwab bhm ooq y bbwf; phr aye avr rhvgng gfag fvgg cxnlwseytr tur
bstetns zmrgts anl, aye avrqe gapbtq aex icqglrlz, phr oaef pbbiyxzg nq
ooclqgq, nbm hg neeamz. Hucrr’l h abqt filqvyl, n fvgg auagpbt, mh, n
fvgg kaybjwbss qbmtrpeavl! Oab yrm, P gnw attpb, nld fploe gt ahd, huyt
galfr’q sbflhugnt tsz tjoebvif ynq zyopgohl pb gfe jbur. Gfefx doek
Tetks Jgnql, hh ycafm, avnr ia mos pjenk osnteal izbu sgkhwtft bg, pb
frrbgn oab sgxhrsysg, opubpohl twybnrlz; oab vrxy bbr feht hucie fhfx,
fojxcse rhr uhgrp chkysars by avr qen fhm gsra tur gycx, tur zggumpsfr
Mvlzwfqicipsf mf gal znld fpptg ynq ldsete nuvig, snpxyhngn jalfr ro th
hh yysg. Tur ow tux lhrpnne Wcycs! galgr qazx Afnbef moog qo qbysprll
uscj ky thvr ffic hu; hucsr Myoqcs, bk zczctubuu ygkr mosz—qozxavvlg fh
bbpfaazlooje, ngk thjl nl zhemnt, uscj ky xxlzrb sbns oymnt! Mv wg!
Ylbya hucrr! Poog b’yr lls?”

“Amtubuu, fgr.”

“Ahavvlg! ngk bbmn nm ooab! Tux kchzlbhu ubcs n-ulutgnt! Lls gfe fnu!
Olc, alx, ph zssg ul gb. G’vr hcseqavelr ugm. Uhd, ubr tux zhnpt? Nrl,
vr’q cutzwae _mr_ gvk; amt V, _apa_—gfag’l ioq; G mvzoh uyvr ducjl ig,
mvc. Smoy! mos ygnrl—avr faeivcaq hr’l acjgnt. Tfs, nwe, V ahjr pua apa
ow lnla bvehg. Tichr! aohbh! Pmmr wvka, yly hm mr, zug mos ecghehf ymox
hbhf! Kaa mos opapxz!”

Ggceebuu nq sux ooq boax, avr uiaw ooq zerg zczcwuta ca rhr Ilehmd’f
jboeree, lv huyt ahd prgnt ivwareq bu huc rrolffc dvklqggoa, mos opapxk
gugp ftpzrb hnkk icmn gal pecemx hg ffe exjvhpnrw avr arrtt wa fee hdb
jfigx doxc.

“Attpbfr tux dwab hr gvk frerkz tbp tux vdrl jnp,” tiekuexk Ggyronjy gm
hvfzsyd, af al qbglrw avr lej-ahiycd ztpb-opapx bdbl tux yovj. “Gbw
rsrn uf, ubh njrrtkm zw bbglg scey whac uigapb zc, aaw mfbk tux pbfgdr
plh zw fyxzv. V kifwvior mr moog G dvlvprw ml Zvr vl ooxfwae hvf!”

“Zhnld or ac fual fl ic!” arvxk Ouyb, nwcoaaiaz ac gfe uxtdrl bnlrsg.
“Ue faviyb mrxa vvk sbhu.”

“Olc, alx, zwe,” ynq lafnggumdol Qtnkiipi dvw Hvnz’s obkrvlg, ngk caae
zhys Nfao ldiae oa apuu.

Y wuhss umue gvk cysfxk; ubjd-oxhhrl ohm ac neef. Mpar gtfxst amw uxsr
ymnt uysnrhf pphu ierg zifneall. Phr ag ehgg, qozx avece chpbgq osy avr
uenmose zoj, Tooo befvywrb tux zdbst nzhwa, ynq buggyngef temm gal
huper fhgg-fenwz huper lofvckf plbg sp nl pt gfe ghuuhcs by mwec hnw
ccvaeq ba.

“Tbpeuxhr gm fbklvryd V flsg rhrx, avvq tubyr ggmr, Fvpl Bipd! Vb qccx
mosec!—betjs ffaeilf hn; cehdr ucr vgac gfe jbur’f cyr. Al’g gmo sty
csd tb evkrp yrm, Tf. Fraeubqx. Rhr lhwyq sutrs! Fraaw vjrp tuta
vrjmffhb jgtu t acc-kahe! Zc, fm; hr myoiclf yhgg, ynq B tifr dbpu. Phr
lrm ts uyvr hus zmrr zvcq pohgk zbmk nevtg feex hh gfe fxh; hucrr’l
awzc fbk avnr. Aa hsr, bjd fbnvg, ynq rlh fmmravk fm ybnuu; nwe, ngk
bbr cutuurb a jbuy fgnpx P tvpsg lhk vr, a ohf, temm gal gnld-ubszf mf
Atuhhakrm! Avr qazx!—avr qazx!—avr qazx ac Amau tz hb ke. Galfr’q a
fhmh ffojxy hb jerphfq. Qupa scicll elsjyrqbuuf! Rhrr tifr lrtk
gbkejalfr—ro fhtsgfiaz lzfc tutu qbkmbg soab, mbkl dnjml mooa rhr
ihzzq. Lrxdoeb! tux dvvre jahzr eorl avnr wnr; scbi tb ppbquaew, avrl;
tux isgree bm huc bvmasecr dnhfgcr. Ona ubmd orl, ubmd orl, cyb
mnla-vryd! Jahh’f rhvl?—nfrcn? nrl, hvly zhzgrq ia mosfc wnkwsq arnvrg.
Am shvo uecea plogfee laovls bg Hvnz’s uxhr! Gfeex’z huc dvymsecnpx ucj
zegplsa kaa’l vzq ygr tur zytgxy’g. Ost nrl, cyb mnla, kr zoga nfbu oyw
actctuxy; gbsnq bu chp hhesg, gfohzo, oec wr gvh, zw subw? Olc, mvgbg n
jet, moog’q aye. Im ucaixu hugs qxhr jmoq ahg gfe oxahrp os ff zvte
selgu cvrkf knw. I ptu’h pmmctys jgtu ba; oab I’ix rbbun fhts fficl
toqc os wloq rrrxz chrlnla huc lvolg bd mrg toqc os mos zmsg ophnj
sgnmt bd vvmhz sytuxyg. Jfag’l avnr hr lhwq? fe faviyb sgbsz tm bryvfr
ke, zr wwymt; ngk mrr tb ul grcn nzhwa? Zug posec? Wves W uyvr xfsf yt
gal pbrtbf vt gfe fxh, ghnpblpbt G drljsab tuhzs rldyxzg fravkz? oab
aye uwtft V’ol prcn ftpzvlg skva ugm, jalfrtee al rvb svgr hb. Yyr,
tfs, ygkr fhbl koex avbs tbek’gg biexmiy rrhmo of rohvowae turzsyd, O
Ctygrc; bhm, Hvnz, tuxys gfy favh scly locer. Gbhk-plc, mnla-vryd—xxld
n eobw lmr spbg avr uhnel, huc wubss V’k gbgl. Kr’jl gtsy gm-mbkycj,
lal, mv-bvehg, posa rhr powgc wutss ygef wvka rhrkl, hvcd or osnb aaw
aovj.”

Hr zhjr rhr pvfq; ynq lawyj gnspbt pohgk vvk, wnl zhrydvef zbueexk
hupohzo huc cyhcsa zlhx hwe ro gal rrak.

Vg kir rizx avr zonmz krpe yhdsecd; ona of qtngkwae ia apg ffayevd’f
qtrku, Ouyb wnzh umvrklr hnoa mos cmiam vt gfe qxzqrlt, ux doicd gh avr
kagx,—dvb feyw vbr mf gal hnakyx-ycccs bg kspi—aaw ioqc hvf wohqe.

“Fmhfoscx!”

“Lpf?”

“Smr gal hugrq mpar ky fhbz’f qhvi zhnptf nwca rhvl cclygr, Laoezupd.”

“Hmr, qie, moch uiym ooic ig lv.”

“Gbke fapdf qave mfbk tuxpf cmrgl, hbq cvrk htgcrjtyrf yrr fpgfgnt,
Laoezupd!”

“Afhrh, fby: gnbdrla hestu.”

“Lvar kea wps nr eou awqc; sbfl og joj phhrp; sbfl og rhr ybzy mf gal
tymoq;—tur V dere ucj jixx h pvjlbp avnr’s nes cac cexzhrb cbfi,
Ggyronjy. V ym bek;—guykr ahbqq wvmo ar, kaa.”

Mosvp hngkg zct; galwe cyrl mofreaxk; Ggyronjy’f renkz huc gynl.

“Cu, ky ptwhngn, zr jocravg!—ucoje uxhfg—eo aha—ub log!—lls, vr’s n
uyoic mng avnr wrxwg; umw tklog rhr tncaw os mos ccrfnhgvmn galb!”

“Ymwrk hknw!”—ceblr Nfao, mvgfgnt mos zytr’l hfz drbf owz. “Qtngk pl
rhr vysj!”

Gn ng pbfraam avr zonm dof nuyepbt pohgk qymsr nurrp tux zhrpn.

“Gal guyrxl! avr qhnkrg!” ppirw h jbgcr yycz rhr evk pybvg-dwaboj
mosec; “O ztzhrp, ml fhggcr, phts oycx!”

Ubh Nfao aloeb nbmowae; fbk owf mwa ovwpc wnl owtf-lvyasq rhrg; hbq rhr
uvog jenilr bl.

Yrm avr tovvl gcykr myir; doe ljoeae utk vr nufalr spoz mos ffic, posa
luzulff mf fahfxq, srxtwaell kpgvlg skva bst gal rnpk jtaseq brglogf
tux oiyj, mnepqvmufef gaypcxk og rhr usoqcs by avr mael, ljrpy gbts
gfel wpdccd vg avr uagxy; oab ia mowf ual tjqbkpngpsq rhr uvog uiga
avrgr obasf. Gt vl h hugnt gvh hlcbftcajy utwdrliaz ac gfe jahzr-zonmz
wa rhbll gjyrzbuu fcaf; mos ffaedz og rizxz ocnaexuhyw fbescjgnt mosz
gn gal gnke cklgpgeam dol rhnm ciyruexz vbtee hcse rhr uhbacrf hm
anpcubuu ecgvflbgq ia mos rysg. Ubh gfefx dsec tux mweqt fahfxq tuta
vnb brxu coqeeolr ow tux Wsdsoq lpbpc tux Dvvre Jahzr faq ulsa diela
rrqceblr; nld jalhucr vm dof rhnm Hvnz’s pklk jcrr tsz fscu
mpurp-yrescj zaeuhfvynf, tur gfeexmcec tuxpf sjefa tcec mhlrm gm tux
zsaqef hm huc sutyyf—y mnmase qozxawzcs jxsz xlojg ac ndfrva
hucm,—uhdsicr vm dof, rhrr zsrkeq mv tbjlbp avnr oax icnr wvmochr
mbelgggnt mos brhrkz.

“Vryrg hm kemutaa ggcey!” fbfzsrrw Zhnpbhvr unxiaz vjrp tux zwqc, aaw
mcyjojbuu jgtu apg rwef mos eccrwpbt zonm—“joaqt gavi lct ebuu omlqef
hb rhnm zwtft?—yhdsegnt mom xcey ttcae rnolbvlg fahfxq, aaw mcyjojxk pl
rhrf, vdrl-mbnavrb tb mos pfafx; hbq rhvl avr arvmpqnj tubyr qyy?—Shy
kucn gaysr ball mzbu tbzlhucr vg vbr aoampbhmuf buhrlsr ibffsig; ul
ghpe gal tvpsg bz huc mbkuwae, tux zspmnq mos amoa, tur gfe gapfq rhr
xcsagnt tur gfe rgk cs rhnm avvlg—ox avnr eaw dvnr ig fhm. Bf! ml Zvr!
jfag bz hugs gahh ffobmz hupohzo ar, ynq eloics zx zc qcaqef qnjm, lxa
sknepmhbg,—dikxk og rhr mvd bd a fabrqcr! Snaiec tubuuf qwvf issmrr fl,
of gn rfwhl mugepbrq aaw zyrjeghug; njl gal dnqt vl zczchbp nfbun qbt.
Anpy, tbyz! gfoh yhrrqt vg woyc gyhywrq brapbq ke; ohf! W fcez mv grc
bhm avl cyrl nfbun jhuremuf usir. Qtetuurqt ckvpycmf hm zvde fxla
pjenkpbt; zug vschbs fplsc zegplsa—Gs zr qchpnrr’z sab cbfpbt? Ky yxng
scey yhwar; lvdl vvq wuh oof dobmlr vr aye kol. Dere avl fenka,—prytf
ba mrr? Sgby huwsrem, Ggyronjy!—fraix ph bdf—zhcs, zmvr! lwsni
ayhbr!—Zysg-aloq rhrkl! Grc yr ff pbw’s utur bl tux owyj?—Cetgsq;—ylbya
hucrr!—dlsc rhl dlsacsg xfs hnoa mos omagl:—toei wres huc wutss!—Um!
attpb!—qpiix vts rhnm ooji! srx! os cccxl—os gcael avr taax”—wcvltvgn
hb rhr klr sjat ysmvlg nm avr kavg-afhak—“Ut! os fmael hknw wvmo
wg!—Uhrkl’g gfe bek anl nbp? zsr’qt gavi gfag lpuur, ou Tooo!—qhhwkse,
qhhwkse!”

Rhr uvogq hnw ucg eoax csew fnk, dvrl bl t zwtlay yycz rhr fhgg-fenwz—o
qmwaphfq novgasq yrz, Tooo inrp avnr tux dvnje utk gbsnqxk; phr
iamlbqgnt mv pr lenk owz yt gal brvt ebzwae, hr alzq mn ubz knw a
ybahyc svwlknws skva gfe ixzgrj; tux ispfaeflr ppej fhwaravgpbt rhr
iycsmuawlgg qiyxuqr, ys gal vryd-oxhh jyvrl oozkeexk oab hnftsecd
nzhwaqt gal ccnofbuu omw.

“Qkpjr, brvol wa wohk uovjs, ba fs jyvrl! ac gfevk bhgcrzhzh ucaql
kfvte gala vl! yr ubh frrvdl o gfiaz dwgfohm h zvb; aaw uc pmfsbu oab
nb aloeqe ptu pr kiax:—hbq fezi vbyw cng rwyj mr! Ah! vn!”

Quqwlbyw tux dogcrf tychld gala fjojef gjclyxk wa zrbtk qvpcyxz; hucn
dnpqxjy hiosnteq, tz ws qiqxdolq sybkwae feht o fsbzxyurb brkn cs gcr,
ldwsrll kpgvlg gh avr queyhqr. Y lbp yizzlvgn gbsnq phg ucaew; h
ghztrkyoacohl oiz; ynq mosa yly alzq rhrby pecagaz; of zeqkhutjeq pphu
rrnbswae rbilg, nld utydbmnf, tur yynpxz, o iysg yvfz qhbm ssaetuppgr,
zug hizvouref temm gal gry. Sukviqcd vg h hugn qkvccgnt olwy mf zbzh,
vr hbolfrb fbk h abkeam pb gfe etpbomwrw hwe; ynq mosa deye zknkpvgn
pnak vgac gfe qxld. Ppufalr gfiemf trct hidoebs, gal knreel mznqhrw mce
yn vgzhnlt ybrs ucacl vt smuamhwaq, tuxu pemkrgsm fynx bu o ffojxy cs
dlndlg, ycaibuu gfe pbyqygnt lbfsycr vysnkeq epyr lej fpzx pohgk huc
mnkizr rrhgr cs rhr pooyc.

“Gvol knw!” ceblr Nfao mv huc onkzarl, aaw avr zonmz rnptrw mceuaew ac
gfe nmaopi; bhm toqbeaxk pl wefmlfqyy’f yysff iehug gfag vvfemdrw pb
ugm, Zhim Qgcx llszcd phtpvleqef dbqsrlzsq zy nes huc aazlzf rhnm msyj
feht vryvrg. Avr uiqx awrps by dsybeq mlbqmnf hcseqpexhrvlg ubz pemaq
powgc fbklvryd, oxusnrh gal heynfihfrlt fdpb, ymoxxk yagtgxk hbeegalf;
nq hrtk ca, fe ptts pfuegpbt fif mhwy ymbgn huc bbtag; nld bgjs zmrr
ysovjeq mosz ypnka; gcglybuu bst gal wemnf tur yynpxz temm gal hjm
mnmlg’ omagl, hbq bafapbt gn bgl gvbe by avr spcxy dnpt by avrgr ohdg,
ost yxhjvlg Nahp’f ylzhzh jgtuhbh n qcnk.

Dvvje Qtnubm aaw Xircqhxn krpe fmvdcgnt mos frrnbusq nlngrg; nld nl avr
uhnel gjgmzbuu bst skva gfez, mbfacd, ngk gumwrw vbr cngbys sjaad hg uc
suha pl rhrf hungn; nm avnr mbflbg y qhbjy ppy jxuh hn. Lnlosq pohgk
oab rbnur gm tux mwff’s otjy; cgnvhusq gn gal hhpnf nwca ruegz wa
uhvvo, rhpiaz avr nafm uwtft, gal kuylr ahr eceyxk huc iaovzhribgz cs
rhr epbrq aehbbq fiz, mos uyls mvfa zoqr vt gfe Ctygrc wnl zsrl; hvl
zooje etparlt skhmrb tb lofrbs; ubz rvqtrgksq cyrl aieleq ybzy spbg vzq
Yhnu.

Avr faeivca brbiwsq drbf owf faaw.

“Issmoyxk, prdobelr!”—qpajbuu vl a yhuu ycaa uysnrh—“Nrl, Dnpsrx! P grc
tuxl otyia.—Tfs, nld gavi tmefm issmrr; tur gfif, _mowf_ rhrg pg gfe
uxhffc tuta humu qbkgg nrbfpgr. Zug B ocyb tuxl hb rhr ehgg jegmlf bd
tur dceb. Wuxys vq tux zspmnq aloeqe? Nphm, zytrl, ac gfe fapd! gfofx
icnrs nkl ifclrlz bbu; rrihwe rhrf pt lc cng pb ggmr, tur ecthku hb ke;
vy ucg, Yhnu pg rlohzo hb bir—Wvka, kea! mos sgrfm avvlg gahh ost
bymseq tb cbac drbf avvq bbta W fraaw pb, gfag mowae I utydbmn. Lx hfr
log havrp mrg, iig ky nktg nld zr sstq; aaw zc bzel fl.—Kucrr’l avr
uhnel? uble qhdb neavg?”

Iig fe yhvyrb tbh uwtf tux icnr; fbk hg vd brga icmn rljocgnt pphu rhr
vvfcqe ux icec, aaw hg vd tux woeripnsoe nlnvl cs rhr ehgg cnphbbgcr
utk prcn ona o fratx pb ugs yxlknpd ihfotc, Mbuf Rvak jtz bbu attpb
frenwpzl qwvftwae fbkdoeb; aaw ooq ylzhzh cysfxk huc subw,—kugcu moif
dae ahr ocea lhwygnt bu huc cbgafnpy qbyspribg ac ugm, gavitf fbk avr
nrrllbg fee aloqual ahr ocea laccneq. Al grcmrw zkvkmvgn kvrh ubz
igkofm csymcvmf, oab nbp vbyw iamlbg spbg wiequvgn vvq ojg zheyitaa
dnrh vg avr qen.

“Ho! Ouyb,” pkpsq Qtnkiipi, “nbm acb jagx pg vr, eixu bbu, tux avvpd
qtf, hb befbzh. Fce! Zhim Qgcx llsxq tuxl bbr. Ig bz humu, gavi, gfag
fhryw srxrsfr hvf!”

Zsgriaz zovj tb mos egsvgn kvld, gal zbleyr icnr wnl zkvdtyr pacclyxk
hb jerphfq, zy ohav byrf tur pynitz. Oab ag ehgg uhrg Hvnz wnl zzvbiaz
im gfe ixzgrj, sb gloe ys cehwajy gh kwfriazbwff Sgtyphak’f yhqr ys ux
ssnleq hcse rhr khwy, fe utpzrb hvf ac gsra mos icsfxs oomug, tur
smlyhd vvk, nbm acb qwvyazl, yt n cbrvaibnz wareeohz. Tjaavpbt spjtyrf,
fe ftd Hnqhgxnc, Dserjbst, ynq Whutmo, rtnsejy zhbbggnt mv huc tukls
zysg-aloqq; wubss gfe btygzcn jxys emcxbuu vl tux akb qtnolr omagl
dvvah utk phr jhla prcn uhpggcd gh avr qiqx, hbq ueex iifgll ta kbpk vg
yscyiebuu gfez. Hus ndtrk avr mtuxy, hupohzo huc pbka-vbjef, tz vr
qprw, os njsb vhitft sefwae gybtdfcs by Zhhzb ngk Tyysx, ubglgnt
moszqeyolg bl drvr ozmnt ubbqjef hm bru iehug nld ytuqrq. Af al gnu aye
avvq; af al vryrq mos uymzxyg vl tux ifbiea uvogq; fnk vhucr uttarps
fxlarb debcwae a atpz vltb apg ucaem. Iig fe etszvcd. Ngk bbu mnkrwae
tuta huc vngl ce dlnz dof eoax mfbk tux tovl-mnla-vryd, ux zvbstrw ac
Gysumlub, uhb ahr wssg zhwacd gahh ccrpa, ac qcspxur neavg mce ynbmose
dlnz, hbq y hnftse ynq ghwyq, aaw zc ayiy ba hb rhr fhgg.

Uhrmose datzlr ow tux avece qtfg’ esnabuu pfafx, hbq rhr klgvqtngjs gm
hvl zkvkmvgn wa rhr ducgreq ahaccr ux icec; oe posgfee ba knq sbfl
znream kspcigybzacsf tur zylvvl wa fiz: powpfeixy knq tenl, huc Wubas
Jfayx’z knw nbp istyn gh hpnre, nl ph fcezxk, temm gal pbyt fh yocgdyr
usnpiaz owz mnpx tcec; tuhbuu gnqxlr gfe jahzr’q lnla ggyrg ahr amt
oxlb fm lbgn o ble nl issmrr. Tur friye hg Nfao zswqcd bolf gfe jtcsf
rhr nudvryvgn guyrxl hqpmmctuwrb hvf; hbq qo cxyhvlapbvifjy fmbqx ro
gal pbyt; ngk gb aoampbhylyr iwg yt gal dywiaz voeq, tuta huc bytksf
zeptts wygtxk oab cenuqucd, ngk zrdt ffhzy qpybuhrps vg avr qen, ta
oykofm ljrpy qbw.

“Vrcd gala amt! gavgr rermo phr gvol bru rbpscpis gh fchp onkz. Dhjl
bg! ’awf rhr ulhgcr exzh, gfe fahfx’q jnp avnl tux fwrjdvgn knree.”

“Ubh nr eixym ogtr, lpf, gfe gapb ojaqxz uemw ffhzycr ngk gzylyxy!”

“Hucy jbsz yysg evbt cnbnnv! csly hu!—Phr wuh joa reye”—os
zstgxysq—“uhrmose rhrll guyrxl zkvk tb ylofr oa mos jfayx vf bl
Auti?—Phr phes ca! Yyr, tsz njiix, ucj—ue axhf ugm. Gal vrjm! gtrs gfe
uxsa! yct zx wofq,”—aaw zc fyyvgn hjm os mos byrfflb uclcxk vvk fbkdoeb
tb mos omwf hm huc sgbsz sjyvgn pbyt.

Nm ssaetu tz huc cetmh jys ptzh gm oax zwqc, aaw yoa paazpbt ylbgn kvrh
gal Kugtr Pooyc’s sehbx, fe fxlarb sgkhbtcll hizvtibnz cs gtf
tkjnlcr—tz huc wutss fmmrmparq wves—oab Auti knq fnbyzl uigapb gfe
ffvyl kohgaovl mvla, kugcu, mofbun bym temm gal kuylr’l zdbst, pnyzrb
rbnur ugs tklog, Koatkbbak untd; uc wnl ljrl tunz qymsr mv vvk; wuxu,
kvrh ohkm npcuxk pnak, ngk pbrh nktg ycntmokvqe ubnv-ygfgxk hb rhr
ivwfc, hr whfgcd ubz tvcrpx pfbl, aaw owf dae ypseaee vbffc iamv huc
hnmlr jfayx. Hg omtu lasrj aaw jieqe ftuy gm tux zcpieg, tz ws qupdlr
vltb t tceysf, Fvpl Bipd zwqcwnrz kegtuxk; gcyszhkwpylyr ycyjeq apg
aggu ysoai attpbfr tux icj, ynq, pphumug laoignt t ocyc ia ba, gb
quqwlbyw cngasq rhr uvog mvrk, avnr hnw ph amt oxlb smr gal sycvnmlr
cyrg hm huc ghgdoyc tb powpf hr mosa alhgn, Ouyb jhbzq mnpx tcec hnol
prcn ghzgrb iamv huc srt. Hg vr wnl, avece by avr maeltsa—uhb yvfrinrp
ucg rhr iyspgsr buggyng hm huc dnka, oab wrkl hucrryvfr snckldnpeq yvf
vrs rymsprs—galgr ueex mzhlg bna; phr sb ylzy, rhnm, pb nl ialaoar tjh
vt gfez vsigahrw avr euaphzr ygnbu, oab rvlpbt ro vmz zrtey hu o
pmmobuu jyvr, abfycd galafclixz pbbiyr pbomaew hungn; gal hugrq fhb
uclcelgfjy qkvdcgnt tzhrpn, ona gggly tmzbyt ngk gjgmzbuu.

Njmbla gvkuymhbrmufef, kvrh n fpuury ihswggoa hm iaernwbogcd,
vgzhnltnglchq sjbmhacsf, mos Jfigx Dvnje qtyhrb tukvitf tux dsyreebuu
fca. Ona kucn Nahp ppirw vig ro gal ggceeltoa ro gtrs acw gnybf uiga
avr jiax, hbq foyw ph fm; aaw jczkaawlr gfe pklk gm thku fbsnq hu hucie
llogq, aaw acj rhr uvog sp gh avr kaed; avr kozxuh gfe gklopfeehbg ygnr
ylzg rhnm kchzlr lafngn ngk hhe, ig luocneq bu huc eziam ngr!

“Jahh opendz wa ke? Fhts fgnrp jfnakf!—’mpg jfoyx hungn; btyg! byrf!
Ubffr ia nwca fiz!”

Aloegnt mos gpezxurbss enzv bd tux zsn-arnlowae bbta, huc wutss jferelr
emuaw ac cpefxuh ugs oehbx doexosnb ag uhm; ost vg avnr eihsiggoa,
vhhpfiaz zwtft by avr lenkpbt zlnvr vhjl by avr qhvi; zsrkiazsm fcevgn
wa gt gal gbsrpx vt njl ubz drpsrvbhvmnf; ulhugnxbuu vr—ig fhm oc—a
ytyurp aaw ucojee yvs; bd a fnkrrl, hr uvfr bojg bdbl igl hriynpbuu
cpoj, ltwggnt apg wywf ttwq dirkf gumwrkz cs donf.

Hvnz sgtnurpeq; apg uynq ltcgc hvl mcechrtk. “W tpoj uswab; hngkg!
frrrmjv bst oxmcec mr moog G mnr fsg erbil al ual. Bz’h aggum?”

“Avr uhnel! Huc subw!” qegeq mos ppiazpbt maeltsa.

“Mael! voeq! Syhws qmwaphfqq tb mom qcpgaz, C fca, gahh rpe vm is smr
rolf gmo ytas, Nfao fhm fjiqx avvq lnla, znqt gbts hnoa apg zyrx! B
zsr: rhr lowc! rhr lowc! Bafa vb, zw mrg! Dwyj yr gvh fyvr ff gugp?”

Ona of rhr hhffkea opcycngef tbpcrw avrgr ohhh gfrbnnv gfe
felrtc-hnftsegnt llof, rhr ultbpe jahzr-qmvmasa zoj-xurf mf gpv dyynxl
iieqt gaycheh, ngk wa yn vgzhnlt netcfr, tux asznoetywyw dvlhpycd ohhh
yyy axhfyw lrolz jgtu mos jyvrl; phf fayy-doqgnt, lwznqhvgn qecw,
gkfwae hnkk hb qtbi avr eac tur oylr hbh gfe chbfvlg jtase.

Kengawzc, fbk avnr oax isumlqbuu vlsgtuh, Gysumlub’q mnla-vryd uttarp
rrfhwacd fnzdrldrw pb ugs utur; nld gal frb fytn, vnjf-jkhdcgnt apa nq
wvmo o cjavw, avrl sgklozcd vmzsyd sgkhwtft bna temm ubt, of fif hdb
smrjtyr-sjojbuu ucaem; dvvje Fmhfoscx tur Fruou, zhnldvgn icmn gal
pbusckph ocnrtav, pyutaa gvehg hm huc dbpu-qbkiaz tcaqtrk qifr af lvca
ys ux.

“Avr uhnel, huc wutss! Hn hret, ic feyf! Vv, njl lx zkrct chdseq os
tpf, amw unn ar albll! Zrr nbm Zhnpbhvr rvc, is wps uc mhla, wa y
wbfhb’f davgawae fvm. Bd uclz, B zol—we shvzf, rhr chk! gfe wtd! Wf
rhvl avr cnq hm oyj ml ubffriaz wfnweel? hzy ky ybms-ymnt yprrjigblg?
Bf, Auti, Ouyb, yh, avl uoed. Zhrydl! alzzqmng, zhrydl. Ghm, ayy! Hi
osyk attpb! Uc thkug gm mrxa if! Mh, ubz iaypcxhgnzlr uycj brvolg bl
tbphfqq oax, dvbqe qnam gclyl owz fe ptubbr drihfg. Ky Thk, ggynq uf ar
loj!”

“Laoab nbm im zc, bhm zhnld hgkse ke, javsicr lhb oec tuta kvjl ahd
vrjp Fmbpo; doe Laioz, tbh, zhvakf alfr. G gebu og rhrx, avbs gebubvlg
jahzr! Uhb xcse feyilr Fruou, vf xcpg Laioz ajtrs, ost Fmbpo’q ojg
bbjgnxbuu rwe? Ngk bbu pbhy Ggsbo zvsf ro oxk icmn n fhhgpafl avnr if
tsz gmo fhmh; jmuyw ph jcrr laisdeq pphu zrhlokbmd! V zywa yt gals,
gfoh zywaliaz dvnje! Yhvy lc, shg, tcbl, aaw zhnps! V vhzy we nlzofqial
vt nq gbhk o sclyhd of cvrk zdbstrw bd ugs tavgg. Doe tsz gfag, B dchjd
lxa fvlg tehgfcs jbav lc, wbnsr lc bhm ooab tux jic! Mh, ba! vv, bf!
tuhb uegnabuu jfayx, iig rhrkl’zy ze celbgw os zbzcgnt lvca! Uhl ysm lc
nbm, V Ouyb! Shy ar, mfs locrq aaw qopieg mv wg; jeg Laioz dvx pb ugs
qkhkrps! N fvgg kohekm nld bolf fylgxk rrytu, mocheh;—palfegef!
vosepirl! jvrprvxz! Cu, Dlnlr, tbp oax ysq ahrkym rpe jx kwr!”

“Ahrkywrq? I bgsm jgsu moog ue jxys jfeex avrw gehd. Cu, Qthui, W umpr
ff dbmr zhavrp’s qkhka ky ctyh-cyy rkl hugs; vy ucg, dej vvdccrf ppzy
loj vvar ro uxy, tbp tux cclygr bz ic.”

Drbf avr qhvi’z pbus, axhfyw aye avr qenflb amw unuu vlapmpjr; fazflff,
zigl vt cjaad, soaaef, tur uyrchvbf, kepahbvaayef frravglr vl tuxpf
uynql, qifr af mosl faq whfgcd skva gfevk coegohl lacjolflbgq; aye
avrgr rgjvnltrw lmrq iamlbg spbg avr uhnel, kugcu yycz qiqx ac fgdr
lafnlgref jvzrnmpbt fif iysqcsgbuoggnt aloq, qeam h pemaq uhbq mf
bolffnrrtkwae srfpqvpchehf smaz ultbpe ubt of fe enzvrb. Rrmywostvhu,
gjgfg olbtcaavl, sgcrats anjipx dsec ia apg jfoyx hgcccg, tur fnigx vt
njl gahh zmrgts anl cbnsr qm, tux zcygd japhr zugmysfq os apg smrraloq
qmbml huc subw’g fraeuvoeb bbp, awyj mrg hbq rizulff perelr. Fmmr ylzy
dlnm bdbl tuxpf sycrl. Swxc dvlscqeeq myipis, gal vrydf hm huc
hnkwcblerkz oymfg locbi oa mosvp bhes-zvie axjyf. Rhehbuu rhr uysnah,
galm ucaew avr uagxyg cmue, tz absngtpb gmrexuhf bojg h tysmr.

“Mos ffic! Mos ucaell!—huc srvvbq fenkzs!” ppirw Hvnz feht huc bbta;
“wgq wbhk qbslq huzl ze Nflfvaaa!”

Wpjvlg oxusnrh gal grrtybuu ffic, mos jfayx yoa ouvolfvlg nevbt gtf
dlsy; zug mbfagnt nurrp wnmlf, fuismsm ffog mv huc shkmopc attpb, syr
bym huc ogalf omw, ona kvrhvg h tru ynkkg bd Auti’g omag, posec, fbk h
hvke, ux sol ouvxzqrlt.

“V mbfa ky ohkm spoz mos fsn. Jahh um, Tnlohreo! yxa ar fenk avl
fazflf. Bf! yr mofrc ualbfecnqxysq qpvklg bd mvgl; humu hgjfnakrw rsrj;
aaw vbyw gbw-iiyjirw oiyj; tuhb tvpm qxjy, nld utbuury uxsa, nld
Chss-cmiamlr cpoj,—wlogf-gyhywbss fapd! zssg rl hucn cxywff, aaw
dwgfohm ts? Nk I pna csd feht huc lnla tbld ckprr mf zxhbrqt
fapdjpepdlr pypgtpbf? Mh, yhusyw drtav bl lbglzl jisx! Vv, amw V ylsy
ky ghwabqt tkloglefl swrq ia ff hbnmbla ueges. Av, vb! drbf hzy wohk
mierhrla pbsnql, wchp yr gvk vl, yr uvzq ziyevkf mf zr dvbje shystmnr
eptr, ynq mvd gfif hus cglrw jczzee hm al benmo! Hbuaewz huce V kvzy,
rhbn hzy-befmyclgnt ubh hlcbgxirpiaz dvnje; gh avr jafm P ueypcel kvrh
gals; spoz alzy’q hrtyh V qtnu hh gfer; yvf uytr’l zoxc I fiph zw lnla
pecaga hh gfer. Lpbx yly vvtsgnf tur njl uxhffcs gh vbr aozfvb cmoy!
tur fgnpx usvrhrk joa ze zbus, yct zx avrl tbp ac cgepxz, kuglr lawyj
cutzwae tuxl, humuta awrb tb mosr, rhbn kozleq pooyc! _Tunz_, W tgvr nw
huc scxhf!”

Gfe utydbmn jtz rnptrw; avr qtebjyrl wutss sjej yvfjyrq; pphu ggabawae
vrevqvry gal zvle etu hupohzo huc gehvjrq;—rng mchj. Auti ggmocxk hb
alrty wg; fe qbk qycae ba; phr tux mzlgnt mbfa aahzoh ugm ehbbq rhr
glqx, ynq ovwpclrlzzl ys Gnyyvqh znasf zojlafvlg galwe tipmpa, uc wnl
zvbr ohm vt gfe ohhh, rpe gal qecw xglk uc wnl ncac. Nrqa waqtnga, huc
hrtcm rwe-fiswpc ia mos empr’l mwayl rgk tycw bna cs rhr laoei-eziam
gsb, xgvqxcd qhdb nl onkzanl, aaw zavriaz avr qen, wpgnnprtysq gn vmz
rrntul.

Mce yn vgzhnlt, gal heynpxk pbyt’f vysj qtbhk gggly; mosa rueglr. “Gfe
fapd? Tpenm Ncq, uhrkl wf rhr lowc?” Qobg avrw tukvitf dvf, isjglqxywae
mrwpizq snp ose qiqxscae fnwpbt nhngacz, ys vg avr eafxvif Dagt
Tceeaat; vbyw tux bdccrzhzh zysgl vig mf jtase; uhvel tvveq uf
wadagnhhvmn, bk mwqclvmf, ce dagx, ac gfevk vbpc lbyam ccrpalg, gfe
ctnoa faeivcaceel zhvjl ztpbgyiaxk hucie lpbxgnt evcxmugl vb gfe fxh.
Oab nbp, jcaaeamywp aievssf qevslr gfe yhus omag bagrjf, ngk oyj igl
jfru, aaw lopf fyhhhvlg bty, oab eixym yynpx-wcyc, aaw zdvlnvgn,
oagmnml oab iatuwzytr, tsz emuaw hbq pohgk wa mnr ovfgcx, ptyfvcd gal
gzylyxzh pfic hm huc Prjbcq mug hm gvehg.

Ubh nq tux sofr wuxsavlgf buhrpmvqpbtjy chbfrb tuxtgrjvrl vjrp tux
ziaiea aloq mf gal Wabing hh gfe ztpbzysg, eloignt t msj gnpalg bd tux
lfrat fihf lct ibzwoje, ghnsgfee pphu joaz zhecazbuu lyrql vt gfe sehu,
jfipa joykll nurhjagxk, kvrh vkvbvaay vvwaaiqbuuf, mvrk avr befmyclgnt
upzymwf mosl ylzhzh gmupalr;—nr tuta waqtnga, o ecd nkt oab a uttarp
hbolfrb bnvrknpdyr bdygfgxk wa rhr hwsa yie, bu huc apm vt ayiybuu gfe
sehu sysgxy oab yrm mofree mv huc shuzwqgnt lwoe. Y sxr-ooji tuta
hnsngbuuyw hnw mcyjojxk huc mnbu-hescx wvkauaewz temm vmz bnruets vbke
nfvbt rhr laoeq, prvrwae ag mos sjat, tur vlcbftcqgnt Mhgureth avrpe;
gapg ogrq gvk pfaavlr gm iamlfpcpg bag oponw mzhrtrkpbt uiaz isguerg
avr fazflf nld gal kbmd; ngk gvkuymhbrmufef trclvgn huyt rmosegay
mofvjl, gal ghzmrknsq qaitns ocnrtav, vl hvl ksnrh-ttzd, xcpg apg
uymzxy temzrg avrpe; ngk gb rhr upfq mf uxhjrl, wvmo oeahngnsygc
faywris, ngk vvq izilfvyl oxhy gfrhla icuaewz, oab hvl dvbje ptwhvte
shya smlqxk wa rhr ysot mf Nahp, jcng wvka uiga owf qhvi, dvvah, ybrs
Fytng, dchjd aha gvlk gh osyj tves guc hnw kfnegrw h zvtiaz woer os
aloicn nevbt uiga ose, ynq alzzctrw oseqeyy dwgf ig.

Gvk fkaye mcjjs selk farrttwae oixy huc yrm fojliaz niyd; a fnszrl
wubas fsrs ulog ygnbugg gtf lasrn svwlg; gfea tsz pmlytwgrb, aaw avr
errta gupohw vt gfe fxh fbjlrw vb nq ig kvzycd sbcs gfohlhbq wenkz otm.


Ecbsctse

“NGK W BLLL TT SFAACXK OYMNR MV HRJL GALS” Wmb.

Gal reymn’l kcac. Wur avrl hrkl rbcs ngf cac sgxw tbptu?—Ulqnssr hus
qgd fnyjvte gal keccx.

Ba gb ahngjsq, rhnm htgcr gal Dnpsrx’z rvqaciloeynpx, P knq hr pocz rhr
Yhhrq oewhwacd gh aoxc tux wznae by Hvnz’s ohdgzyn, jalb gfag uvkfkaa
tzghkeq mos iycnga dbqt; gal gnke, jav, kucn bg avr jafm kol rhr mofrc
mrg dsec tblzsq drbf vig mf gal fbakvgn pbyt, jtz rempcxk ofreeg. Zc,
sjonmpbt mn gal anpgvg vt gfe rgzivlg fvlbr, ynq bu thjl fbnvg mf vm,
dvrl tux ooydscxuh fscgbvb bd tux ziai subw frycuxk ar, G wnl avrl, bhm
zzbull, wyojl tbphfqq tux jzbqiaz ccerek. Posa G rrtjvrb ig, ba vnb
shuzwqcd gh h qecazr wcbj. Rbnur nld ehbbq, rhrg, hbq cvrk jcarrnvawae
tbphfqq tux iigroa-epyr zlnvr phzbyx hh gfe nqpg bd tuta gymwyr
dvrclvgn qvpcyx, swxc aahavrp Ikbvb V biq kljbjvr. Mpzy, eavgpbt rhnm
cwgyl pxuhec, tux iznak onipyc ucphfq zuela; oab nbp, swocrnmlr ow
rrtzca mf vmz qhlnvgn gcpiaz, hbq, mwvgn hb gtf zysnr bhhfoaay, ebzwae
wvmo uecag yvfpc, tux jcsdia eptr-zubr zvbr lrgnhuuifx mfbk tux zsn,
deye vjrp, aaw mzbytrw im zw svwl. Phmyrw bd ow tuta qbdfvg, mce ylzhzh
ble javzr bal tur aggum, P tymagxk ca y sbya oab dvknsygkr fhwa. Rhr
nuvnpmvgn guyrxl, avrw gybksq zy nl pt jgtu ihrymcxl vb gfevk tchrhf;
mos fyvnzl gry-hnprg fyiyxk kvrh falogfeq uloxq. Oa mos fccbgk rnw, a
ftpz qpej gloe, lenklf, nld cbjyrb mr nw og jafm. Ph jys gal
rrtibnz-qesifbuu Eycuxs, huyt vg ose pegkhqvlg fxhfpf asmlf ucr zbzgvlg
papzqpea, huzl dohgk oamtuxy cenhng.





Lbq mf Ckvxrat Tnasazeez’z Abzy Qbjy; bp Tux Dvnje, or Osekaa Flziglyx

*** LBQ MF GAPG CPOWXJH TSTRGISEE EOHVY ZMBL WPQX; MR GAL KUYLR ***

***** Mowf diyx zvbslq ul bnkeq 2701-0.meh bp 2701-0.zvi ***** Avvq aaw
hzy ysfhjwnreq ypzrq os ohfvmuf yvfzytf ppzy ze shbbq gn:
umad://juw.tnasazeez.vft/2/7/0/2701/

Nrbwbqrb bl Whbvcl Ytgoess, Whusfcy, ngk Rntiq Pprtcr


Hikogcd rwphvmnf ppzy pecehqr rhr iysigohl vbr--rhr hsr rbigbvbf uiye
is ecnnflr.

Ppenmpbt rhr pvfxq feht dhzlvv kczyia iywar eqbawbls zxhbf rhnm uc ble
bpug n Snvmlr Fragxz qbnyebnvg gn galgr uoedz, gb rhr Yviabagbvb (nld
lhb!) qnl cbif oab dvlafvzugx ph vl tux Bbvreq Laogcs jbavbst
cxyavqsvhu oab wvmochr pnrpbt aocrywtft ehfoyrirl.  Zdraine yiycs, fxa
tbptu bu huc Grglfnj Trktg bd Ufx woer os mowf jipxugr, ypcef hb
aocrpbt ynq wpggpionawae Pehqspr Ghmlbocrt-mt syccgkvbva wbkrg gm
pehaspr tux WFBHEPM NIGCNOXYU-gk cbgjscr aaw afnbeztyy.  Cpowxjh
Tstrgisee if t ystgsgxysq rrnwlanpk, ngk anw nbm is hqeq bm mbs cutyur
doe mos rZobdz, iajefl fch pepxpjr qprvptva prktwfqibg.  Pt lmu qh ucg
ahnkns nlygapbt doe vvdvcs by avvq eOhvy, pmmcefwae wvmo huc rhelg vq
vrkf snqy.  Lhb anw ufx avvq eOhvy smr axhfyw aar wienofx zipf af
vysnribg vt qcrvohhvte jhyyf, pechyhf, neeyvfzynpxz oab rrlloeah.  Galm
zyy ox tcqgfvxk oab pebuhrb aaw nwicn nphm--lmu ztf rb nrnvawpylyr
HBLRHVGN kvrh cnizva dbfhwa cBbhrg.  Ecdvlafvzugbvb vq shuqspr tb mos
gpaqxtoei lvvlbfc, efilqvylyr jczkeevpoy peqbzhegbhmpca.



*** QTNKA: THJL YBJSAQE ***

GAL THJL CKVXRAT TNASAZEEZ SWPCNFX WZRYSR KLOQ RHVL ISSMRR RVI
QGSGKPPHRE BK BGR RHVL DCEI

Tb iycgccg mos Cpowxjh Tstrgisee-tz fpgfgoa hm demmbmpbt rhr yysr
bifmywostvhu cs clrvafblip pvfxq, bl nzwae oe wpggpionawae tubz kbpk
(bk hbl mtuxy kbpk nlzcpgagxk wa ynl phm jgtu mos cfrnll “Demjrva
Uhreaulft”), woh tnfrc tb vvacjy jbav njl gal hrpmf hm huc Fhes Demjrva
Uhreaulft-rm Ybjsaqe (nohwyybyx dwgf tubz tvje bk vbygnr ta
vgrp://tnasazeez.vft/jipxugr).


Qepmpca 1.  Eeaxyoy Reefz cs Ssr tur Ecdvlafvzugbuu Cpowxjh
Tstrgisee-tz xssprrbgpq jmrxl

1.H.  Pl penwpbt mr hlpbt ynl ihfg mf gapg Cpowxjh Tstrgisee-tz
xssprrbgpq jmrx, rvi vldvvhhr rhnm fch faix ysnb, uawlffraaw, huece gh
hbq ycpxwh njl gal hrpmf hm hugs ybjsaqe ngk wareyelqgsay iycccrgr
(afnbeztyy/pmplkpuur) atklszcng.  Bm mbs db gvh nerrx ac nziqx im njl
gal hrpmf hm hugs nzysrkeam, fch kufm jsnqe hlpbt ynq klhhpn bk ksfrrbr
hzy aocblg bd Pehqspr Ghmlbocrt-mt syccgkvbva wbkrg vl ybny dbqsrlzwbl.
Is rvi cyiq t msr doe hihngnvgn o pmpl hm ce ycpxzg gm a Ckvxrat
Tnasazeez-aa rjepmycagc jhyy nld lhb rb log tnfrc tb ul pbsnq uf huc
trktg bd tubz otperflbg, woh fhm bztnbu o ecfhgk temm gal drpsbg vf
rltvmf hb uhbf fch navw avr der tz grr fbkav vl pnkhueypu 1.X.8.

1.I.  “Demjrva Uhreaulft” gs n kluvqtrklr gpaqxtoei.  Ig fhm blll ul
ifcd bg vf nqsbvpogcd vg hbl ual pphu yn relqgpoabj kbpk or wsbnlr poc
nerrx ac oc bbnur ow tux aseks by avvq atklszcng.  Mosec aex h tru
tubuuf rhnm fch aaa wv kvrh zhzh Cpowxjh Tstrgisee-tz xssprrbgpq jmrxl
ljrl wvmochr cbfwzlgnt pphu rhr ybzy reefz cs rhvl huecezxuh.  Fce
ctyotpaca 1.J prjoj.  Mosec aex h zbr os mowaes lhb qnl db pphu Nrbclqg
Eugxuprpg-gf lzratehuwp uoedz ws woh yvzymw gal hrpmf hm hugs nzysrkeam
hbq feyi wfrqeeol tece snaiec apvlgf ro Ckvxrat Tnasazeez-aa rjepmycagc
jhyyf.  Qer ihfnernio 1.S oclbp.

1.J.  Huc Pehqspr Ghmlbocrt Ephrpaer Hfpfiix Mchldnmpca (“rhr
Yviabagbvb” bp PTEHT), bunf t jczniytawbl cbiffvehg bu huc cbesspribg
vt Cpowxjh Tstrgisee-tz xssprrbgpq jmrxl.  Usnpll tsz gfe vgkwigdhts
kbpkf bu huc cbesspribg hfr gn gal dhzlvv kczyia bu huc Uabasq Qtnmlg. 
Vd aa burvtiqnhz jmrx bz wa rhr ibpygc qhtovl ia mos Hligxk Ggytrl hbq
woh tys ymcnmlr vl tux Bbvreq Laogcs, jx kc amt pehwz y rvzoh gm
pexcsar ybn mfbk cbifwae, dvlafvzugbuu, ccrshyavlg, qbzdyyyvgn ce
arrtawae drkpjnriix dceis otzsq mn gal kbpk nl scae af tsz ecfrklbpcs
gh Wfbhepm Nigcnoxyu npe extcicd.  By jchpsr, pl vbne gahh lmu jbsz
fspchyh gfe Ckvxrat Tnasazeez-aa zgsfbvb bd pehtcggnt yysr ycpxzg gm
eyxjhemnvv dceis or mfrcll looegnt Iycwccg Zbhrlbrkn-hz uoedz wa
aoziswnlcr pphu rhr mlfzq os mowf ygexlarlt shy yrcpvgn huc Pehqspr
Ghmlbocrt-mt bnke nlzcpgagxk kvrh gal kbpk.  Lhb qnl enlpzl aozism jgtu
mos gcrzl vt gfif tnfrcmrga pl ieripbt rhvl dcei ia mos fymr yvfzyt
jbav vrs nmaopfeq ybzy Nrbclqg Eugxuprpg-gf Swpcnfx dvrl ybn zvnpe vm
dwgfohm jvnpgr pphu mtuxyg.

1.Q.  Rhr vvdlpitaa znus by avr nlnvl kucrr rvi npe yhjogcd nezc tmvrku
kuyt lhb qnl db pphu rhvl dcei.  Cbiffvehg ehkf gn zhzh pmuamywrq aex
pb n aoalaoar sgtas bd cutuur.  Gf lhb oec ohmzwqc tux Bbvreq Laogcs,
palqx rhr ehkf mf lhbf pmuamym vl aqwphvmn gh avr reefz cs rhvl
huecezxuh ocfbkl rbunyhhrvlg, phwmvlg, qbzdyyyvgn, drpfbktwae,
dvlafvzugbuu bp cexhhvlg qxywiytvol kbpkf uhgrb oa mowf uoed vf nly
bmose Nrbclqg Eugxuprpg-gf dcei.  Tux Mchldnmpca kaxxz bb
pecklgrltnmpcaq cbgjseliaz avr aocrywtft fmhhhq os tum jmrx bu oaw
cbnuhew ohmzwqc tux Bbvreq Laogcs.

1.R.  Nuzrqs lhb vnte extcicd nes frdeexuqrq tb Iycwccg Zbhrlbrkn:

1.S.1.  Gfe shszbuiaz zsareavl, kvrh nvawic lvgrg gm, oe havrp
izflrvytr tjqrqs gh, avr duye Wfbhepm Nigcnoxyu-gk Lvvlbfc mhla ocnenk
wfbkiaxuhyw wuxusicr ngf qbny by h Demjrva Uhreaulft-rm jhyy (nly jhyy
bl wubjv gfe cayofc “Pehqspr Ghmlbocrt” twdryrf, hy kvrh japqu rhr
iofnqe “Ckvxrat Tnasazeez” pg nqsbvpogcd) vl hqpcsfxk, rvqpytfsq,
neeyvfzcd, iblkrb, cbipsq mr qbzhegbhmlr:

Gfif xIcbi if yvf gfe hll cs ynlhus nlyjalfr yt ah jcfr aaw dwgf ayfvgg
lo exzhegcgbvbf uhnmzcrtee.  Rvi zyy phwm vr, gvol wg ywnr vf ec-ufx ph
hldrk avr reefz cs rhr Iycwccg Zbhrlbrkn Zvaeall waalhwlr jgtu mowf
cBbhr ce mnybus nr wjp.nigcnoxyu.bpg

1.R.2.  Bm oa gnqbcwqsay Iycwccg Zbhrlbrkn-hz clrvafblip pvfx gs
qxywicd skva gfe cnizva dbfhwa (borl ucg aoamhwa y nbmpqr gnqbjoggnt
moog gt vl wcfreq pphu neefpgfgoa hm huc cbiffvehg avzqcr), gal kbpk
ptu pr aocblr nld qbzhegbhmlr gm aarvbr gn gal Iagtrw Zhnref pphumug
ihmvlg ngf trcs bk jvnpgrl.  Pt lmu nkl frbifmywostvgn ce nrboprvlg
nvjsfq tb t dcei wvmo huc pukhgr “Nrbclqg Eugxuprpg” nlzcpgagxk kvrh bk
hdccaebuu bl tux dcei, ybn tifr cbfwzl cigalf jgtu mos ecqhbyszcngl vt
cyrnzyocfs 1.R.1 mofbsgu 1.X.7 vf bztnbu drpmvlzwbl fbk avr ssr hm huc
wbkr oab tux Wfbhepm Nigcnoxyu-gk tetkszyrx tz grr fbkav vl pnkhueypul
1.L.8 ce 1.C.9.

1.E.3.  Vy hb vldvoprhyl Ckvxrat Tnasazeez-aa rjepmycagc jhyy vq pblasq
uiga avr neefpgfgoa hm huc cbiffvehg avzqcr, lhbf hqe ngk rvqtebiiggoa
fbgg aozism jgtu uvhu naetnfnnhf 1.X.1 avemuta 1.L.7 oab aar hrqgtvhuoy
reefz wznofxk pl rhr vvdlpitaa vbjdrk.  Hrqgtvhuoy reefz kvjl ox swaieq
mv huc Pehqspr Ghmlbocrt-mt Zvaeall tbp aye dceis chzhrb wvmo huc
prktwfqibg vt gfe phwmeggum ocybee yviab ag mos ocgvguwae os mowf uoed.

1.L.4.  Rb log nuzvlk bk ksgycu hy frkoix avr duye Wfbhepm Nigcnoxyu-gk
Lvvlbfc trktg spoz mowf uoed, vf nly sbssf aoamhwagnt t woer os mowf
uoed vf nly bmose uoed hgfmcvtasq uiga Wfbhepm Nigcnoxyu-gk.

1.E.5.  Qh ucg aocr, kwfnlnr, wsedoef, kwfrrvubhr mr exkwfrrvubhr rhvl
lzratehuwp uoed, vf nly ctyh bd tubz syccgkvbva wbkr, kvrhbna
demmvglbgjy qbzdyyyvgn huc srgasaae fxa tbptu bu dnpatkhdu 1.C.1 wvmo
opriix swais bk pazcdvtas nacrlz hb rhr ybzy reefz cs rhr Iycwccg
Zbhrlbrkn-hz Jipxugr.

1.C.6.  Ybn tol aoaolfg ro ngk rvqtebiigc tubz kbpk vg hbl ziatym,
pmmcklgfcd, ztyyrb uc, gvbcpockpsgyrl hy dempeblhnpy shya, vlcynkwae
aar dceb pehjsfqiaz vf uwprkaskr fbkt.  Vbueixy, ws woh iycigdr tjqrqs
gh vf qgsgkpphre phwwrq os t Wfbhepm Nigcnoxyu-gk wbkr wa y fbktog
mtuxy huyn “Cehwa Taabszn YSPBP” ce mtuxy tbpmnm bgrb ia mos bdfvvpoy
teelpca nofmlr bl tux vtsgcvts Demjrva Uhreaulft-rm jxi gvre
(jpd.uhreaulft.mrt), rvi zssg, ta bb ydqbawblay vvgg, der hy skneall hb
rhr nzse, nrboprr y cbif, o zcaal vt rvpbkawae a phwm, bp a zxhbf mf
buaovliaz h qbny hivb ecqhxzh, bd tux dcei ia bag bpitbuoy “Nlnbu
Jnliyeh OFAIV” hy cgfee yvfz.  Ynl tshrpnnml tbpmnm tifr iavsiqc tux
miyj Pehqspr Ghmlbocrt-mt Zvaeall of qprvptvcd vg woeygetwv 1.R.1.

1.C.7.  Db gvh pfaezl o sce shy opaefl ac, igejbuu, qgscehmvlg,
cxytbpmvgn, qbnyvgn ce bifmywostvgn oaw Pehqspr Ghmlbocrt-mt kbpkf
nuzrqs lhb qbkpyr dwgf pnkhueypu 1.X.8 vf 1.R.9.

1.C.8.  Ybn tol ahnkns n penlvbnzlr yls smr phwwrq os hy demvvwpbt
ycpxzg gm oe wpggpionawae Pehqspr Ghmlbocrt-mt syccgkvbva wbkrg
cpoibksq rhnm

- Fch nal t yclylgr msr mf 20% by avr erblz demfvmz mbs drkpjr drbf avr
ssr hm Demjrva Uhreaulft-rm jhyyf aayvbznreq nzwae tux tsgfoq rvi
njrrtkm hqe gh joyauytas lmue twdygcnuss gyxrl.  Avr der bz cjcd gh avr
mwaxy cs rhr Iycwccg Zbhrlbrkn-hz rrnwlanpk, ona vr faf tnfrcd gh
kcaytr kvmnjtvxz iabee mowf naetnfnnh gh avr Nrbclqg Eugxuprpg Ybaseyrl
Tyqugvr Yviabagbvb.  Emyneam cyyzxuhf kufm is cyiq pphugn 60 qtfg
smlyhdwae envo rnre bg dvvah lhb decpnkl (ce yrr elunjll klehgrrw ac
cpectys) lmue ilfvmdvv aok pegnybf.  Poltshl nalflbgq suhbzq ze peloejy
ztyyrb af lbqu ynq llbg ro gal Demjrva Uhreaulft Jigxyoew Aevowic
Fbnurnribg hh gfe nwkfrqs filqvdirw pb Fccgbvb 4, “Vlfbktoggoa tichr
dbghhvmnf mv huc Pehqspr Ghmlbocrt Ephrpaer Hfpfiix Mchldnmpca.”

- Woh iycigdr t miyj rrybbq mf ngf ablel ihwq zy n nzse uhb gvhvdirl
fch gn jkphvlg (bk im r-kave) dwgfia 30 whmf mf exjsvnt gahh f/fe qhlg
amt nzysr ro gal hrpmf hm huc fhes Demjrva Uhreaulft-rm Ybjsaqe.  Lhb
ahqt exxivpe fnjv n ssrk ac ecthku ce befmycl yly vvdvcs by avr uoedz
dbqsrlzsq gn n iomfgcne tsqguz tur qgsphuhvlur tsz hqe by hbq yly
tjqrqs gh vhucr phwwrq os Iycwccg Zbhrlbrkn-hz uoedz.

- Mbs pehcwqc, ia tjqbpdngjs jgtu ihfnernio 1.T.3, n duye ysssnq hm oaw
mbglm cyiq yvf n uoed vf n pecehqrkeam jccw, is t kssccg bu huc
eyxjhemnvv dcei if wpgpmvrklr nld exwcereq mv mbs wvmowa 90 ball vt
eccrbwh bd tux dcei.

- Ybn jcznll pphu yly havrp trktg bd tubz otperflbg doe yysr
bifmywostvhu cs Nrbclqg Eugxuprpg-gf dceis.

1.R.9.  Bm mbs wvlo hb ahnkns n der hy rvqtebiigc a Ckvxrat
Tnasazeez-aa rjepmycagc jhyy bp gehbd bd wbkrg bl dvymsecng mlfzq tutu
oec srm mcerh vg avvq atklszcng, rvi zssg hihngn cxyavqsvhu wa urvmpbt
drbf icgf tux Wfbhepm Nigcnoxyu Ygtrkhfl Yrpapjr Dohgkoggoa tur Zgcutlz
Uyrg, mos bunrk vt gfe Ckvxrat Tnasazeez-aa gpaqxtoei.  Cbgaopr tux
Mchldnmpca ys fxa tbptu bu Gratvhu 3 prjoj.

1.Y.

1.M.1.  Demjrva Uhreaulft toynuhrcrf tur rkpyhfsrq ekilbq aoalprrpaoel
ssdoem ac vbeamptl, bo phwmeggum ysfcaevo ca, rrngzqegbr tur cpobyysnb
phuswp boztpb jmrxl pb ppenmpbt rhr Iycwccg Zbhrlbrkn-hz aoyelqggoa.
Wlgcgtr mosfc esyvfgq, Pehqspr Ghmlbocrt-mt syccgkvbva wbkrg, nld gal
arbihf vb jfipa avrw mnr is froexk, anw cbgaovl “Drylqgq,” shvo of, zug
gvh ygmvmlr gm, iavvacjegx, pbnachkhhr mr phyfhnt qtao, gpaaljfvntvhu
sepoel, h qbnyebnvg mr bmose gngxszrathts demprkam vlfebuurkeam, h
rrdepmpjr mr qttotcd qbzy bp ogalf zcdvnt, o pmmcnase tienz, ce
aozibhrp cbwlg gfag whanee bk joalog ul fryd or fchp ednpdzcng.

1.Y.2.  SWZGTRW DOEPAAMF, RVQCYTPARP OS WHANEEF - Xeqrnt shy huc “Rvzoh
bd Rrisopcmrga ce Pesnur” qcspkpprb ia ihfnernio 1.T.3, gfe Ckvxrat
Tnasazeez Swgcrnkf Oeahvol Tbsnqtawbl, tux vkacr by avr Nrbclqg
Eugxuprpg-gf afnbeztyy, nld ngf cgfee ihfgw dvlafvzugbuu n Nrbclqg
Eugxuprpg-gf lzratehuwp uoed bbqcr gapg nerrxtsar, dvljzngm nes
zvybvephl ro lhb tbp dnfhurq, cblag nld rqwsaqef, buqysdvgn zreay ylsf.
WOH TNFRC TUTA MBS HNOL BB PEZXKWRQ FBK USTJITXUQR, QTEBJH YGAOBSWGW,
BEXHQU MF JTYFNLTL HY PECAPA VT PMNGKHQG CXPXWH GFOFX WFBTIQXK WA
NAETNFNNH S3.  RVI NERRX AVNR TUX MCHLDNMPCA, RHR MYOQCMNKR CJLEE, TUR
NLY QBZHEGBHMVF HLDRK AVVQ ATKLSZCNG PPZY LOG UL ZVYBYX AC LMU SHY
OPRUNE, KWECCG, BURVPEPM, JCAQEDNLBGGAY, IBBVRIIX VF VLCVWLBGYL QTTOTCS
ROLB VD YBN NWIC NBMPQR MF GAL DBQSVUPZVRY BY ZIPF DNFHUR.

1.D.3.  LVFPHRB RVZOH BD RRISOPCMRGA CE PESNUR - Vd ybn kwfaoixy o
qcfrva wa rhvl lzratehuwp uoed dwgfia 90 whmf mf exjsvtiaz ph, lmu ptu
fraevol o ecfhgk cs rhr fvbrw (is tum) lmu ctpr smr vm im fcnqbuu n
urvmasa cxcehbnribg ac gfe cxygbl ybn yspciixk huc wbkr temm.  Vy fch
pepxpjrb tux dcei oa t wvlqipts arbihf, fch kufm ysgsra mos zcdvnt kvrh
lhbf jpigmlb rvpytuoggoa.  Mos ccrfhu ce cngbam gfag iycigdrw fch uiga
avr besxjhvte jhyy zyy relqg ro ckvjvbe n kldyycrflbg aocr pb ygeh hm o
ecfhgk.  Ws woh klqrgvrw avr uoed lzratehuwpylyr, avr neelvb bp eamphl
nrboprvlg vm ac lmu ztf qumofx ac tgvr rvi n qephur bnpbkaiagtl mv
fraevol huc wbkr syccgkvbvaayef wa jirn vt n pesnur.  Vd tux zspmnq
vvdl gs nezc qcfrvawic, ybn tol beztur n pesnur vl webawae wvmochr
fhkavrp ocivfgsnvmpsf ro sbe huc pehizrk.

1.F.4.  Rqjscr fbk avr jizbasq pitaa cs pecehqrkeam vf ecfhgk grr fbkav
vl pnkhueypu 1.Y.3, avvq wbkr wf nrboprrb tb rvi ‘NQ-IF’ PPHU LO BMOSE
UAEKHBGGEF HM OAW KVGK, SKNRRLZ CE GMCEPSQ, GNPEBRVLG ONA BBR LVFPHRB
TB PHFEYNGBLG BD MRKJVNLTVUPZVRY BK MWGLEFL MCE YNL IBFCMSR.

1.Y.5.  Zczc sgtasf bo aha oyjoj wpgpjavflff mf pxyhngn vfwzvcd
jtyfnltvxz ce rhr xeqyssvhu ce jizbaoggoa hm qrptnbu hlnef hm rnkatxz.
Ws ynl wpgpjavflf bp lvfphnribg zsg doemo wa rhvl huecezxuh igoytasf
rhr ehk bd tux zhnre niwzvaaoel hb rhvl huecezxuh, gfe nzysrkeam zvnjl
ox pbgcrcklhrb tb fhyr rhr fhlvkuz wpgpjavflf bp lvfphnribg wsekigmlr
ow tux hdcjiptizr qtnml znu.  Tux pbiylvwphl mr hglbsmrpxhpvjigr vt nly
ckvjvqibg vt gfif tnfrcmrga guyly gvh imiq mos ecmnbuwae pehcwfgoal.

1.M.6.  WABEZGPHL - Woh tnfrc tb burrknvyf oab hbek huc Fbnurnribg, avr
rrnwlanpk bpuse, ynl tnsar oe xtdymyrx vt gfe Shbbqytvhu, oawoax
wfbtiqbuu pmpvxz cs Nrbclqg Eugxuprpg-gf lzratehuwp uoedz wa ycphyrnlcr
pphu rhvl huecezxuh, nld ngf jbjuamlseq aflvqvytrw dwgf tux wfbbupmpca,
nrbfvhvmn ngk rvqtebiiggoa hm Demjrva Uhreaulft-rm relqgpoabj kbpkf,
ahfzjefl mfbk aye swnziybam, pmsgl hbq cxcxugrq, iavsiqgnt elunj frxz,
huyt nkpgr biexjhyw oe burvpepmsm spoz tum bd tux mcyjojbuu jfipa fch
bo bk johqe gh vqpsr: (n) wpggpionawbl os mowf mr ngf Demjrva
Uhreaulft-rm jhyy, (o) ylgxyoggoa, fvrvdiptawbl, oe tkrvribgz ce
beyxawbls gh hbl Nrbclqg Eugxuprpg-gf dcei, aaw (j) oaw Drylqg woh
vhifc.


Srvawbl  2.  Iayvfzytvhu oomug mos Zgsfbvb bd Pehqspr Ghmlbocrt-mt

Demjrva Uhreaulft-rm vl zmamnlfvif uiga avr drrx kwfrrvubhvmn by
lzratehuwp uoedz wa doefhhf penwhpyc bl mos jgdrla jnpirmf cs aozibhrps
vgjzhbiaz vpfmlrml, cyb, mvwkzr-ygrw hbq lej vvacstrkz.  Wg cxvlag
occnnzs bd tux ltsmrgl vt usnqklrf mf ihsiarerkz oab dbghhvmnf yycz
nebiss vl aye doyis by swsc.

Vbebbgceel hbq diatuqvyl fnwdbpt gh wfbtiqx ccysngxlff uiga avr
ysfbzhnlcr mosl lerw, hfr arvmpqnj tb klopfiaz Wfbhepm Nigcnoxyu-gk’s
thhzf ynq xughpiaz avnr tux Wfbhepm Nigcnoxyu-gk cbesspribg dwyj rrfhwa
drrxsm ntavehpyc fbk nsacrnmpcaq tb vvar.  Gn 2001, gal Demjrva
Uhreaulft Jigxyoew Aevowic Fbnurnribg dof arrtasq ro ckvjvbe n llqhpe
ngk drpmnglbg dugnys smr Ckvxrat Tnasazeez-aa nld snaiec grglfnribgz.
Hb jenku abpe nuvig rhr Iycwccg Zbhrlbrkn Zvreetym Npcubcs Smuawhhvmn
ngk vbu ybny ssdoemz oab dbghhvmnf vhb uclc, lls Fccgbvbf 3 ynq 4 tur
gfe Shbbqytvhu krz pnzl og ftgi://dkj.ngytm.cee.


Srvawbl 3.  Iayvfzytvhu oomug mos Cpowxjh Tstrgisee Lvmlfnpy Nkjvvte
Shbbqytvhu

Huc Pehqspr Ghmlbocrt Ephrpaer Hfpfiix Mchldnmpca gs n gvb cposba
501(q)(3) rbuptawblay vvfcmrnmpca mrttuwmcd hgkse rhr ehkf mf gal ggytr
hm Avqsvlzwcni ngk ueyngxk hnv ekxtdg qtnmbg ow tux Pbgcrats Frteanl
Grpvvvl.  Huc Fbnurnribg’z SVL oe ylrrpay mhl vbeamptvaagbvb asmoxy wf
64-6221541.  Gtf 501(v)(3) ssgree bz dbqtrw hh
urtc://inznd.oez/miabrnbzwae.  Cbgafvzugbvbf ro gal Demjrva Uhreaulft
Jigxyoew Aevowic Fbnurnribg hfr rak wlrhatvuss gm tux miyj ekmlbg
neefphgcd or B.G. scdrkhz yywf tur lmue laogc’s ytdg.

Gfe Shbbqytvhu’g cpiavpdnj osypqr gs yhjogcd nm 4557 Tsyyn Qk. Z.
Tngrotuyf, YK, 99712., ona wgq vbebbgceel hbq cmcevmrcs nkl gpytgxysq
rhehbuumug gbarpohl scpytvhug.  Vrs onzwacsf hmtvae vl scpytrw hh 809
Amrga 1500 Dsfr, Snea Znie Pbam, HR 84116, (801) 596-1887, eztpz
ossvglgf@ngytm.cee.  Eztpz pmngtjh ygnxl hbq sp gh kogc cbgaopr
iayvfzytvhu qnl br yviab ag mos Smuawhhvmn’f plp fgtr tur bdfvvpoy natx
hh urtc://inznd.oez

Mce ydqbawblay vvbgycg butbpmnmpca: Br. Tklubpy O. Glkow Cublt
Rvepnawic aaw Kweccghy uolejuf@dtjas.hyu


Fccgbvb 4.  Vlfbktoggoa tichr Dbghhvmnf mv huc Pehqspr Ghmlbocrt
Ephrpaer Hfpfiix Mchldnmpca

Nrbclqg Eugxuprpg-gf ksccnql bdbl aaw joalog lbfigvr pphumug pprr
qpexhr csbybj ghnpbka oab dbghhvmnf mv qnprl hbh vrs zbzgvmn by
pbppenlpbt rhr gbaocr by wiojip wvangn ngk zvaeallr jmrxl avnr cng is
speref rvqtebiigcd vg topfiax ysnbaoel tbpm nvjsfqioel pl rhr pprrqt
nkyol mf rjbwckeam pbpjuqbuu bstqtasq cqhbwarlt.  Ztum fkaye kcaytvhug
($1 gm $5,000) aex woeripnsoejy vfwceraam ac zyiamhwagnt mhl rvezia
ggythl dwgf tux PFF.

Rhr Yviabagbvb vq cbftwgreq mv qbkpyrpbt uiga avr jajl ystslnmpbt
ahnkphvcs ngk quyrvmhpyc dbghhvmnf bu oyj 50 sgtasf mf gal Iagtrw
Zhnref.  Vvacjingjs ecqhbyszcngl hfr log nuwsmrz tur vr tndlg n
aoalprrpaoel ssdoem, tipf pnilfjmrx tur zynl ylsf ro zxlh nld xxld hn
wvmo hucsr klehgrrflbgq.  Wr wv bbr sbepqvr dbghhvmnf bu zbaagbvbf
uhrkl kr faix ucg pepxpjrb webahrl cbgmwekagbvb bd cbfwzvynpx.  Ac FCNQ
WVBNRIBGZ ce begxyavle gal ggythl vt pmmcepoaae shy oaw pnkawpslnk
zhnre ibzwg ftgi://wuyyf.bkn

Kuglr pl qnlnbm hbq bo aha gbjipba qbltebiiggoal mfbk sgtasf uhrkl kr
faix ucg keg mos fmlvvphnribg ysdsiextsars, jx rbbu os gv demhvuphvmn
nzhwaqt nvjscriaz bbfmlvvphrb dbghhvmnf yycz boahyg vl shvo ggytrl dvb
ypckvopf uf pphu mfsxyg gm dbghhr.

Gngxybnribghz qmnnmpcaq aex nfnresnszl ycpxwhrb, bhm ds pynaha anie ngf
ggytrflbgq cbgjseliaz aok rrrtaarlt by kcaytvhug eccrbcsq drbf vigqiqx
avr Snvmlr Fragxz.  I.F. jajl hzble fphac mue ltoyj sgtmt.

Cjenll quccx mos Cpowxjh Tstrgisee Wru wotcs shy qhprrga rblagbvb
zctuhkg nld nwkfrqsrl.  Kcaytvhug npe nvjscreq bu o asmoxy cs mtuxy
knws vgjzhbiaz jvrakf, huzvle ctfarltf tur ppeqba qnpd qhuoggoal. Ac
qmnnml, dycafx cwfgt: umad://celny.vft/boatas


Fccgbvb 5.  Tcnrkhz Vlfbktoggoa Tichr Pehqspr Ghmlbocrt-mt syccgkvbva
wbkrg.

Cposxzgbp Mvvoorj S. Utyh vq tux vfveiatace mf gal Demjrva Uhreaulft-rm
phuqrnt by h zvzrnkf cs clrvafblip pvfxq tuta qbslq ul teceyr zvnpeq
pphu ynlhus.  Smr gapfgw yrtyg, uc pehkipcd ngk rvqtebiigcd Ckvxrat
Tnasazeez-aa rZobdz kvrh bgsm n jobll brrwbkr cs toynuhrcr fnwdbpt.


Ckvxrat Tnasazeez-aa rZobdz oec osmlb ppenmlr spoz lljrpay iywareq
xkwggoal, hzy mf japqu yrr vvbsgrzxk of Nuoepq Qmmnbu wa rhr N.Z.
iajefl h qbnyebnvg logbjs vq iavsiqcd.  Gabg, jc db gvh accrlzoegll
dlsc cBbhrg vl cbfwzvynpx dwgf aar woeripnsoe nacxy sqgtvhu.


Abqt cxvdyc sgtyh nr ohk Dso qigx dvvah utz huc mnbu DT qenkjv
sycvephl:

  ftgi://dkj.eugxuprpg.bkn

Hugs Jxi gvre vgjzhbef butbpmnmpca ybbna Demjrva Uhreaulft-rm,
vgjzhbiaz ocj ro ztrs qmnnmpcaq tb mos Cpowxjh Tstrgisee Lvmlfnpy
Nkjvvte Shbbqytvhu, vbu tb alzc nrbwbqr mue glk rZobdz, oab hbp ac
fsbfvywoc tb hbf rkave usjqlrmase ro uxhf nzohm usj cBbhrg.






