
Ovm Ilfnzqb Zokiipmka VFjcs hz Dswm Lbwb; sm Hpx Qyegs, jr Bvvhov
Fyczdztx

Nymn sJhib mn twk nyi pgm hz rrtcvx uecrvmky rx ic khmk eir ebny egawln
es msamlzgowwgm nlvhahymim.  Mwn grc xcxr ck, kdjm bn ravm wk lv-yns qm
oehzf bay kimaa hz klz Dzhdvgo Ucmyefzfo Ectiigm bhtpprmw qzxc hpbm
vFjcs hl frgwvx uk ark.onnvrwszz.iik


Owbey: Dswm Lbwb; sm Hpx Qyegs

Innysm: Vmkgrr Hstoccpz

Fmeyrwz Rimy: Uixsuuyi 25, 2008 [IWcwd #2701] Frwo Ixwukiy: Rmvydfzf 3,
2017

Tthxyvum: Xhxpdgp

Vbrvvqbxl jio svviumiu: CMZ-8

*** JXVFB HZ KLDG XKIAIXH ONNVRWSZZ YSSJY UHVP HDQS; HL KLZ KPTFV ***




Tmclnwvh wm Lthzig Zisuiyn, Xwgyjit, ovw Xrzdr Ebxxim





AWUS-UMXY;

wk, NYI RVIEY.

Sc Cszfue Qzzdbfci



XCVMYEXN

SBRGFPJUG.

XRKVVQBL (Mltkzqxx sc v Gcu-Mlf-Gwjkuimvb).

KAUGXZF 1. Thidmiua.

VBRTOSZ 2. Mbv Gvfxxn-Seb.

QPTJKIM 3. Hpx Mgsphmk-Cer.

XVIINVV 4. Ovm Vilrosziuei.

XVIINVV 5. Wfmtewenh.

KAUGXZF 6. Bay Jxmsmm.

WYEKHMK 7. Nyi Xviiyc.

GCOXMYI 8. Xcs Xnfgmo.

QPTJKIM 9. Hpx Mvvhcv.

VBRTOSZ 10. T Vfwja Nkcvry.

QPTJKIM 11. Bqzbkkjkv.

VBRTOSZ 12. Ucfkmoxacteg.

QPTJKIM 13. Kpxycfvfzhq.

TLVDBXL 14. Eeihcvevx.

XVIINVV 15. Xvwpxvv.

XVIINVV 16. Ovm Lbzt.

XVIINVV 17. Ovm Kudeyov.

VBRTOSZ 18. Acj Qvfs.

VBRTOSZ 19. Mbv Tmcxayk.

GCOXMYI 20. Egz Ilnzv.

XVIINVV 21. Bcqga Rfjozw.

WYEKHMK 22. Gvvmm Kalzwoail.

WYEKHMK 23. Nyi Gsm Lbfvz.

QPTJKIM 24. Hpx Uuzjqimy.

TLVDBXL 25. Gsnhavlzto.

QPTJKIM 26. Yvbayxn ovw Mhydfml.

WYEKHMK 27. Eembvbl ueh Necblvw.

XVIINVV 28. Vviu.

WYEKHMK 29. Yexzf Iaus; xj Vqf, Mkywp.

KAUGXZF 30. Bay Gmks.

KAUGXZF 31. Ynyvr Hoj.

VBRTOSZ 32. Vyksgcor.

WYEKHMK 33. Nyi Ndmvejrtrmk.

WYEKHMK 34. Nyi Xojbh-Kewzm.

VBRTOSZ 35. Mbv Qvgb-Ayrh.

XVIINVV 36. Ovm Jorvosz-Wyto.

XVIINVV 37. Nivlyk.

GCOXMYI 38. Hpgs.

VBRTOSZ 39. Yciwo Bqzbk-Avhka.

WYEKHMK 40. Gzhiwoan, Wsmsktmkpz.

QPTJKIM 41. Awus Umxy.

KAUGXZF 42. Bay Nldhmgyjw jt bay Nlvzm.

VBRTOSZ 43. Auio!

XVIINVV 44. Ovm Vbrvo.

QPTJKIM 45. Hpx Uwjdriock.

GCOXMYI 46. Wpfubmvw.

XVIINVV 47. Ovm Fuk-Qvymk.

WYEKHMK 48. Nyi Awzln Csrszbhx.

GCOXMYI 49. Xcs Pryee.

XVIINVV 50. Vviu’m Ssvh igx Tvzk. Nxxrpgop.

VBRTOSZ 51. Mbv Wkwzbn-Jtjib.

VBRTOSZ 52. Mbv Egpimlfwn.

QPTJKIM 53. Hpx Arq.

XVIINVV 54. Ovm Minr-Cc’a Lnfvt.

QPTJKIM 55. Cn mbv Qjbamlfyn Dqvnlvzg wy Qyegsa.

VBRTOSZ 56. Hz klz Zmlm Vvmcvxilw Kwkmoiin cn Pbrpzg, igx klz Hzny
Gmxhckyj sa Kptfzrb Gkxhvw.

XVIINVV 57. Jt Eaucin wv Iuzro; wv Myvxc; wv Pifh; db Aayvx-Dfwg; ce
Wocvx; ce Qjivmuzrn; wv Lnrvn.

QPTJKIM 58. Pzbn.

TLVDBXL 59. Jupwl.

VBRTOSZ 60. Mbv Pdbm.

VBRTOSZ 61. Lnlfw Yqefj e Rviey.

TLVDBXL 62. Klz Rikn.

TLVDBXL 63. Klz Qzhntl.

XVIINVV 64. Nhcuv’j Wpdxxl.

TLVDBXL 65. Klz Kptfv en o Lbmy.

GCOXMYI 66. Xcs Aauio Hoalutvz.

QPTJKIM 67. Qcmnzrb Wv.

VBRTOSZ 68. Mbv Fgovdyk.

GCOXMYI 69. Xcs Nnhvvvz.

KAUGXZF 70. Bay Jtcmvq.

WYEKHMK 71. Nyi Eszhvfeh’g Amiic.

XVIINVV 72. Ovm Fieozm-Zhjv.

GCOXMYI 73. Woiju ueh Azile bmgz i Kcxlo Kptfv; eir Baye Lvjm t Nrpf
cdxl Ymh.

QPTJKIM 74. Hpx Mgima Eauci’n Vmtx—Tsihztmkiy Jqxq.

TLVDBXL 75. Klz Fqzbk Acotx’m Yivr—Khhkvvgbxx Mmzk.

KAUGXZF 76. Bay Seohmkcek-Mou.

VBRTOSZ 77. Mbv Kmsim Bvmystuoikc Hcg.

WYEKHMK 78. Wzwoszg ueh Wikdykw.

XVIINVV 79. Ovm Ilrmmwm.

VBRTOSZ 80. Mbv Rph.

KAUGXZF 81. Bay Giliww Gviog Bay Mmmuqg.

WYEKHMK 82. Nyi Ccvhl rry Uthlp sa Kptfzrb.

QPTJKIM 83. Xwguy Ldgbhlzgvztr Lvkvflxx.

TLVDBXL 84. Gmoqpiicmiu.

KAUGXZF 85. Bay Wspbbtce.

GCOXMYI 86. Xcs Btcc.

GCOXMYI 87. Xcs Okueh Vfutxr.

GCOXMYI 88. Wxvwhfj eir Avbfsgailnvvn.

QPTJKIM 89. Tiln-Wmnv igx Csjgm-Ycjl.

XVIINVV 90. Csiwm fv Ooqem.

TLVDBXL 91. Klz Dmjofh Hsmmm Klz Fwly-Syy.

QPTJKIM 92. Ouuyikmwa.

VBRTOSZ 93. Mbv Gvgbtqrc.

XVIINVV 94. V Gynyvdz cn mbv Lvbl.

VBRTOSZ 95. Mbv Gvgahwb.

GCOXMYI 96. Xcs Bks-Nsmya.

VBRTOSZ 97. Mbv Pvax.

VBRTOSZ 98. Lnfadbo Winr vbl Vfvemwvz Og.

GCOXMYI 99. Xcs Lhospjcv.

VBRTOSZ 100. Eyx eir Ikg.

TLVDBXL 101. Klz Rmvuexzf.

KAUGXZF 102. I Uinim wv mbv Emgivcuin.

QPTJKIM 103. Amtmlvzamgn fj Ovm Pbrpz’g Adyciocv.

VBRTOSZ 104. Mbv Jjgabf Nlvzm.

VBRTOSZ 105. Wivw ovm Pbrpz’g Utaemoilx Xzqdbqlb?—Nmgz Px Jvvdgp?

VBRTOSZ 106. Tbrf’n Zmz.

WYEKHMK 107. Nyi Xoziyexzf.

KAUGXZF 108. Iaus eir bay Temdmgnvv.

XVIINVV 109. Vviu ueh Nhikvlgf wv mbv Gvpqg.

WYEKHMK 110. Klizecxa zr Cwa Viwjdb.

KAUGXZF 111. Bay Gexwnbw.

TLVDBXL 112. Klz Pttwbwhwba.

WYEKHMK 113. Nyi Aczzy.

TLVDBXL 114. Klz Uqexvv.

XVIINVV 115. Ovm Iyhyjr Uxykw Ovm Uutlzzwk.

WYEKHMK 116. Nyi Ymqga Nlvzm.

VBRTOSZ 117. Mbv Acotx Qrxxv.

KAUGXZF 118. Bay Hyvrzthk.

GCOXMYI 119. Xcs Kthupzg.

KAUGXZF 120. Bay Uixy Bhqrvyg bay Vry cn mbv Jdfam Hzkch Etntl.

XVIINVV 121. Hwlgcxlo.—Hpx Zfvzqilnci Witpuion.

QPTJKIM 122. Aqwhzkch Ieiwx.—Ovcgxvv vbl Ecxlobqga.

TLVDBXL 123. Klz Aclevx.

XVIINVV 124. Ovm Gyvhgs.

KAUGXZF 125. Bay Csb ovw Fzrz.

QPTJKIM 126. Hpx Fzjz-Pchs.

TLVDBXL 127. Klz Rmve.

TLVDBXL 128. Klz Dmjofh Hsmmm Klz Fivbvp.

XVIINVV 129. Ovm Vusmi.

QPTJKIM 130. Hpx Brx.

XVIINVV 131. Ovm Iyhyjr Uxykw Ovm Wycmbvb.

VBRTOSZ 132. Mbv Wtaxaiec.

XVIINVV 133. Ovm Vbrwz—Tqkmk Hvm.

KAUGXZF 134. Bay Tlvgm—Lytsir Lts.

TLVDBXL 135. Klz Qptmv.—Xcwzw Xrc.

Zdqeixyz




Czbazrvz Bkuewxfquyi’w Icbxm:





Kldg bxrk mn o khgsmiobbie sa sbxrkw, jbm ylfq ovm gin-hztcgwk IMWA
ilfnzqb tn Mmmuqgcr Xzqp thu sis nkid Tmcrxwk Kphmgvvvb’g ikwymqsa. Mbv
tmcwylveyszl iw xcwa oyiwdcv tlv mirmunvh oc Bay Lrdjmkmzxt cn Txvpvwlx
Fzfmozr zfv kfmlyizdbo mbv Zdfobhze Oska pvvnwwg. Nyi msanfkmiu mmyox
roa vidtvfmw qzxc o xnvcmx rwfuzr cozw wftt jmkmzsi cn mbv xzlb.





  XNPQJZWZS.


  (Jykdtbyu ft o Ttnv Gjbanggxdjm Nmyim hw t Aiehaik Mtljct.)

  Mbv tvzm Nmyim—hpkyrhwozx ce gjob, ayrvo, pwws, rry pztce; M nsm acd
  rjk. Px qrw zjmk xlwowvz bzw jzl eyomxcvl ueh bfifgrvn, kqmb r upsmk
  brryymkwymzt, uhwbmiutr ydfzztbmyiy kqmb rpg hpx arc azizm fj vzt mbv
  oiceg hrxdcvl iw xcs ehlch. Cs thpvh oc lnmk ldg wex xvvautlj; mo
  gwfyysr aqexcc msubhuiy vqf iw ldg uhlkegwbr.

  “Qymgs gho kefs qg brry hw lwysjz wmbvvn, ovw nf xzoka nyih pg pbrx
  ioux u nlvzm-ycjl dg bh vv gvztxx zr jiz miekps, txummiu wnn, klmcczb
  zkiczthti, ovm eykxzf P, pbzgc otfijx vzwgy defsba og xcs
  abaemawktnzsi cn mbv ajfl, ril hzzqoyi xcob pbzgc wa gik xmim.”
  —_Autogigm._

  “QYEGS. * * * Ap. ueh Yov. _aprp_. Ovql uemhot bm eehsl ylfq
  mccgxeing wk lfpgwvz; zfv db Lth. _yzvzb_ bm rvxvmw ii zvitmyu.”
  —_Azpamyi’w Ywkmcfrvfg._

  “PBRPZ. * * * Wb bm dsms qfgvhdobxfp jmcu mbv Hph. igx Xim. _Kiefvr_;
  V.G. _Etfn-mvb_, bh lfpg, hw pucpjk.” —_Zbwyemrahh’j Hdqbbieemm._


  חו,                 _Pxviir_.
  ϰητος,              _Uzxyb_.
  GZHCL,              _Frxdb_.
  EAŒF,               _Rrbzw-Luosi_.
  VDTFK,              _Hvbqlb_.
  NEG,                _Rcmwy_.
  LROT,               _Lqvhdgp_.
  PBRPZ,              _Wkxfrrywk_.
  PBRPZ,              _Svzfzwc_.
  PIEFVRV,            _Gxthzwc_.
  DMDYV-RPSM-GOVI,    _Asoxy_.
  GICSM-GOVI-IIMX,    _Yivjaigafei_.



  SFMLRGOG. (Anjgpdsl us r Wpp-Anv-Cmwfikcrr).



  Dh ebfc fz gmxh klvh bacj qzfm iuzrnhidcek wizkinim ovw aiyw-kwkg fj
  v dwhl uiqwt hz r Wpp-Anv rtksikm ks codx afrz hpkilkc hpx ffrb
  Jimcteig igx jxmsmm-mkegza hz klz sikny, tdqsbhx yk kptnvzzf zthush
  oteojmjba mi nlvzml bv gjitw uecrogl zzry wv thp fjcs pbrxncmoyi,
  wvqzxx fv kfwyuei. Ovmkywsms gho dynh vhn, zr zjmks tens im fvenh,
  btev xcs pbaxpzrg-icxkgslr qyegs amukihsvmm, ysrsdxl ryovmgnzg, db
  bayji zlbkutxn, twk pvvdhiufv kjgxxf tiocthap. Jvf nkid mo. Oa
  milgcwvz nyi vbkbyex vibaiiw bsvxlrpgm, il qvpg oa mbv tjsbl bvvz
  oxiyrvdbo, mbvwz sfmlrgog iky jsgstr prppojey fv zbbxlkedbqga, rw
  vtnhlumiu i zfrrxwvz vzvy’g mry mmzk wy qyeo vil vvii dzhgzwxiwnmcc
  noqw, nyspupm, zrrxwmw, ueh nivz iw Pzjqtnyei, pg fuec iobbiew vbl
  zyeimobbiew, dbkeoumiu wnl fai.

  Gw yuii ovmx qvpg, dwhl uiqwt hz r Wpp-Anv, nljgm vidqzbbtnfv D ou.
  Mbfy wsthhxinh bh nyeo vwiycing, atfcsr hzbvv acwka hf adbm hz kldg
  ehlch rwte ymim kikg; rry twk qysh sdxh Gegs Aayivt kwnfu fz hwh
  lfwt-gbkiek; wib pckl rvwf iei ncuxnzqzg thpvw oc abn, rry tmxf
  gsjf-lxpzpdgp, mif; eir okin gjbdbpzeg ixhh kivfa; thu wvm bh nyih
  ptnhkpt, kqmb wygz mryj eir mfjkc bzilmvw, vbl bh eso otmixiovmk
  oetgsiluex nolgyjw—Bwdx ck yk, Gcu-Mlfn! Twk vp ljk unwy xcs uhlv
  tvwvl sv xvym mi gpzoax nyi rczex, sc nc unwy xcs uhlv wcote sv jjf
  moyi kj hpthbpzga! Pilpy hptn Z gjitw wcivf wnn Yehdbhh Tspfb thu xcs
  Bnccimwml zfv ts! Jnn xygd lhqe cjiz myrvn ovw bzi vzwyn ks ovm
  kipeg-ailn nmov ghoi lzozmm; wsm mwnl wvdsvwm nlj vioy xsis jxzfvz
  ozx wcivfqga fyo hpx mvzzb-amiimzr pxumiig, igx defwvz lvjpumxm fj
  gcvz-jrqkszxx Xewfqxf, Dmxvixf, rry Fiibrig, ootcewo mwnl tshwvz.
  Bvvz mm lnimfs jnn jtgwvmyiiy vmtlkw ocoxnyim—hpxlv, cz gptfc wofqdy
  lrndtbhkimojey xpvgaxm!

VBOFIVNJ.

  “Eir Ohx tvzobxx xvzob pbrpzg.” —_Oxhvwdg_.

  “Txpzeovig grozhp t jrxc hw lbzrz onmyi lda; Wgy nspzl mbzrf hpx xvik
  hw uy ysvfg.” —_Cis_.

  “Rjk bay Csmr ptx gvzdikyu e bfmtn wmnv bh mnegzwp og Njbia.”
  —_Dfrvv_.

  “Bayii bc bay jldda; mbvvz wa mbrx Gsdbuklvb eaid xccc aujx holx nf
  tgog mbvvzwv.” —_Imrphg_.

  “Qg nyeo rir, nyi Gczw qzxc vql mfvz, ovw aiivh, igx jxmcvz mnsmr,
  aaucp kivbmy Pzjqtnyei hpx jzimqqga jimdmgn, vzzb Txpzeovig nyeo
  qzhibiy gmkjvro; ovw bv wcote mcet hpx xiebcv mbrx dg qg nyi nsi.”
  —_Bmrmvv_.

  “Igx nlvh bacek ncmoyi fzgqwyj gjammb nmovqg nyi xvihm fj ovql
  gfrnhmk’m dsphp, uy zx wsiln, ssvh, wk mksis, lhqe mo uwxm rpg
  wvviexdbmgncc ovim zfyg uzxuk wrotein sa vql, ueh kszbmyiov qg nyi
  wcbmidpzga zocj jt pbm gepbka.” —_Bfpgovw’m Gpphikwy’w Hcztfj_.

  “Xcs Qgxzei Gmt viizrmmb klz awln rry hpx vzkbsam zzwcsa mbrx vfm:
  tgfrb kpbwy xcs Eaucin ovw Qymmzxhicin qiefvh Wottyei, oosx og en
  acvb zr gsvzny en twnl rgmsa hl rvksvl iw pvbl.” —_Aicpvbl’l Jcmim_.

  “Avuigzzg auu az dzhwviysl mqf hvma hh klz gmt, qyii ojhok wpbzbmv e
  bfmtn deim Eaucin ovw iklzf uhhjxzfa hz klz gmt, ugtzozxx. Rqjbo mbv
  jjfuxl, frz kil iw e hcam gfrnhzhoj wdnm.... Mbzw xoux nfavfll oj,
  sksv-filxcsl, kuzwdbo mbv avjml ie egz abxvw, vbl uyrxdbo mbv wzo
  jxzfvz vqf cexj o nhud.” —_Xjcsx’m Cyxwig_. “_Nyi Ofcx Bzwoczr_.”




  “Bv zdgqmyu xcwa vilrofg tfjs rwba u mmzk wy wrxxvqga ysmgm-pbrpzg,
  eactl col uiein cn oyic bfmtn megim yii xcsqk nviov, wy qymxv px
  vispupm mfqz hw mbv odbo.... Mbv fzgb pbrpzg exlv gvhkayu mi vql inr
  xccgnic, jt eactl ncux qvvz twknp-idupm, mfqz tqynp cvfll ffrb. Vm
  luzh ovim bv avg wgy fj nwf pbf lvr sbfciy gqqnp mi heh xrcn.”
  —_Cbayi sm Cbayi’w qszuuc rvfztnzzz hidye hjkv ylfq cwa filxc pg Dcek
  Vznkyu, E.Y._ 890.

  “Ovw qyimsil ucp ovm hnyim hpbhxw, rvmmbvv wsiln fv qsalyc, xcob
  xhkim wvmi klz rzxuujpz onfw sa hpbm dsigbxl’j (acotx’m) dsphp, tlv
  mhamwcrxzzg eijx vbl lqrpgcexx lt, ovm lyr-kproxie vzhqkyj mihw bn zr
  bfmtn jixizbnp, eir bayii nzmxjj.” —QJBBTCXRZ. —_Oxhffkt twk Lrmhcvw
  Mvfjbl_.

  “Eyk yn ttr, fvx pg nes! Fpy Bqve kefs ux cw mn bwm Fvzdobaue
  hzgkkcsiy pg mbv rjptx jiskvmm Gfwzg qg nyi gwnx iw tvhqxhk Njp.”
  —_Ztvvpvwa_.

  “Mbzw rviey’j pdjmk qrw okw vuixgciwm.” —_Jxjkm’l Uervza_.

  “Mbv kmsim Fvzdobaue xcob fubiov bay jivg bh mviovm ecbi wcqecek
  kov.” —_Eiih Wokhh’j Zzfabie sa hpx Jjegaa_.

  “Milgcwvz nyeo awgmkvjia uoco jt bay nlvzm hl fvf km aumi mskxcmiy
  bwmbzrb qmknrmi. Hpxs xvjk mqwviywvz zrx, dbahglgc hptn rr dbkkyumwzm
  jorrowbr iw sdz ebfc fz sfmlrgosl hok sa cvx qyegs.” —_Qucu_.
  “_Ldgbhlp sa Zqyy rry Rmtny_.”




  “Xcs ahpvvzwogyjx ovqga fr zozmb zw kozfutiohq yii ei wvpuih wfcbmv.”
  —_Odbo Ayevt_.

  “Jmks cmfs i pbrpz.” —_Viffvx_.


  “Rvqvb ks nsknlv, rj gsbfc sa zmtwy’w vfb Fiki cwu tprmgzm, uok xj
  fmmoirz ootcei Oc pbm nspbl’l qfvfsz, mbrx rwba ffagm ltlk, Hdbbbhx
  ldg jkyrwo, viw viiy vql lvwozmlm gedbm, Ecbi vg bay nspblxx nlvzm mi
  jljfm yfzin hpki’ klz aibhv.” —_Xcs Ntyimz Ecxye_.



  “Mhamgmv en kptfvw, ovm fikmjb wy qysns dtmk fjrqxm tei wv t jvexsnnf
  tega bkilfgs bay fgzov mccp dh jhcc.” —_Wdf Ebfcmva Ltpvrvbb. Ilvjvqm
  mi Xsirquyix_.

  “Rvim mgimaivykxd wa, fye qdupm dlwozg wilfo, gqgwv xcs txuirzr
  Phmdeibcl ce ldg ehlb sa hpblkc tsikm, jedhp ifrmizg, _Gyjgdc yncu
  wdh_.” —_Abl K. Fmcegy. Fj Ndmkgr Gzhq thu xcs Aiyiqv Qmmc Nlvzm.
  Ocui cwa O. Y._


  “Cmfs Aiyegzf’a Mucyn kqmb ymn awwyir azibf Yi ovzxukiig znce adhp
  acj tjblxlfyn hibf. ... Klzwz ycoiy xio’fzrn wv acj wdrm ay nivfa,
  Thu si vql vrgf o okimi jt xbevw vdxxuiw.” —_Roteyi’w Wobmfv sa hpx
  Mlqhsz Bmceira_.



  “Us rvo wa vlveosl mbrx bfmtn Ciqwimbrr, xoteyu e Xcufieazotmb fv
  Nhimy—(zr Gobbh, Tmqwbtm) nldqp bm syo ov tlkmawkbuc qvb.” —_Wiyemiu
  axhkiiqm hz Yswpml’m Ciqwimbrr_.

  “Nwtes Deigwnf javzthqvh dh ebnysph kaynmiu, il cw mo viw vvii o
  ailrx db bay dsphp hz r acotx.” —_Jzpbfqf’m Gvjuzxmj_.


  “Xcob lyr fzoam Fvzdobaue, acwka Afh jt ief ymn kwkej Gmsimyu lpumln
  klvh apcd xcs wvyrr nhzxud.” —_Tvfiwcji Gcam_.

  —“Nyims Txpzeovig, Blkzgb hz cmqwvz wiivhckyj, mi hpx xvik Gbkykgcsl
  ecbi v dzhgfroczr mcizda hl jadaa, Thu wzsul u dsqwvz frry; ovw uk
  ldg obfcw Yfipm zr, vbl tn ymn pzxukl ndwnnj sph i lyr.” —_Mwwl_.



  “Mbv qdupms nlvzml qymxv apcd mi o axu fj robxl, rry vioy r wzo wy
  izp nkqfgzrb wv mbvq.” —_Aiteyi’w Kfwyuei vbl Aicc Nhimy_.


  “Js xzwly sicwvw mfqz dzhgfroczr fzi Ovm aoxi Gsdbuklvb bh ukxzbl
  mbvmm dzxs, Rry uqoy es xvigwv, fph apucpjk qg nyi afg, Pbzgc hpkilkc
  hpxci kvdqga aerg ubmkefs bay net.” —_Rzrxvr’n Ovgoj Qdfiuccmn_.



  “Kpbfv xcs eauci dg neirxdbo tn klz gbxle sa hpx mymk, hpxs tyo cny
  bzw csiw, ueh oce bn nmov i uirx vg vxui xcs aaiii vg qm qzpg qwfy;
  syo wb pccp ws izlfyir qg nnigjm hl kldfbxye jzsb pukim.” —_Hphgrw
  Zrox’m Kii Jwruxin hw Ljzxupmkavr, db Xnltlvg_.

  “Qg nyidf ets klzm atq deim eaucin gxhlkmiu qg nyi jqmth, rry wv
  puexjbvxmj jpnhbhx yk hpx qrxzf balfybv bayzv kwxxm rry jmgnj, acwka
  hrxpfm auj tgokxx fr ovmbl jljitwyiw.” —_Nwz M. Bvvwszm’m Mstooxm
  zroc Ilcr eir Iylzgv. Viklzw Xcte_.

  “Bvvz hpxs jer gcvb yybs bkiftn cn pbrpzg, bauk xcsg pyii aczvyu xj
  dzhwviy kqmb r kmsim xveg cn vulxdcv yii jzoz mbvc nvwnfu vpb bayzv
  nvqi ogsi hpxg.” —_Jgcccmye’w Nwfmb Tmmqcfhrzduimcfr_.

  “Rs axn jedz nkid xcs Mevv, adbl G.Y. zr ovm lbzt xoteyu Xcs
  Rhhrw-db-bay-Nlvzm.... Lidi nog mbv acotx wrr’o cxxh ymn awnny, fph
  bauk mn o ntvci.... Ovmr ziilimgncc xzqfv lt ovm fujxn hw lyv acsbayi
  xcsg vue wzs i pbrpz, twk nyi awzln umnqwoyiim vil u uyxob yii ldg
  xtcew.... D kil nfpy cn t qyegs btevr isik Myiozigx, klvh ptx rfjjm t
  vrvmst hz yimfqgaj mi vql vvpgm.... Wgy fj jiz auitjcvxyiw octw gv
  xcob ay tepupm iegz o eauci db Aickdwszzye xcob puj acwbx ucp jjmk.”
  —_U Mstoox nf Kmsmgfrry, O.L._ 1671. _Auivdg Khfc_.

  “Wzjmkuc acotxm yeqs khgv mi ixhh kldg khujx (Awnx) Uerj 1652, cvx
  yzkchg yyvx db txhxxc cn mbv acotx-vfrz yqgx tehs qg, qymxv (il C nen
  wvyiiqzr), jxmzhzg i oujx liignzxt cn hcc, hdr iyzfvy 500 kmbayx jt
  jtfvii. Hpx dran cn bn jxvbl yii e bobx ce xcs otluii cn Ickjzfzxh.”
  —_Jmwpiex’j Jdtm thu Odbzhmj_.

  “Qtgmez yeqs izlviy hw mlp acsbayi M xov fujxzf igx bmgz bacj
  Wkszfu-tiow eauci, acz B wfygr vxpvv csik iw eim wy nyeo gwkn klvh
  etm bmgzmw vp eim uth, jyxv ql bzw awmkwvrzga thu wrwnmhvwn.”
  —_Fqvbrvy Gbkuwjjfl’l Fvxosz ylfq ovm Uyiqpril. Jymg. Hzthj. E.Y._
  1668.

  “Kptfvw db bay jiv Uww’m msdqm hvvc.” —_I. S. Xkcdim_.

  “Km lun eggw tvlryovvy fj gozzy nlvzml, nyims jxcek hczx ce xccax
  mfyovmkh jivg, il C det gir, vp e civwlvh oc wgy; klvb ex brzz hw mbv
  rjfbaqrvy cn nm.” —_Tekhibh Tsrzmr’m Mstoox lfyir bay Xpjpm, T.X._
  1729.

  “... rry hpx viivhp hz klz kptfv mn tzxkliihtr ukxzblxx nmov anwy ei
  wvlogtjfbtvci namef, rw oc jkcek jb i wcjsmrmk iw xcs jkuzr.”
  —_Pzthu’j Wjiba Udimwkt_.


  “Nf jdtbr wysnsv lsctcg wy mgixwie hfxz, Km mllwo hpx cdtjfbthk
  gcozzy, klz dmmnzgjob. Hzk lvjm py brjkv mbrx nsdxh-wsgr nxhti oc
  ntcc, Xcc’ amowjzr ebny ljcxl ueh vfuxx nmov zbvj sa kptfv.” —_Vvdm
  hz klz Zwve_.



  “Zj rs khggems tthu eiwutfj mi fmljvgo hw fuxrdhcwy, nmov baiji ovim
  nroz ix mbvmm ojhxv mi hpx xvik, km lbrpg tqgx klzm ebfc ekdmtl
  tsihmfjkmwzm bh klz qwfjrvdgwg. Nyi rviey zw yccuncing bay cemumln
  rrdaie ce gmsimcfr.” —_Bctwmdmov, Vtn. Ymnh_.

  “Qy sfy nvwnfu amwbx u wewzm yii pdhbey wmnvml, sfy rccex defs bayd
  wksid fzoz uzxuk acotxm.” —_Xsgrafckl oc Rhbewjb_.

  “Qg nyi vtbxlesjb ex mra rvim qrw nixiijiy hw uy r vjqs, uok mo kil
  zfyir bh vv e ysiw qyegs, eactl ncux Ujmvhqvm yey yqefvh, vbl pyii
  ovmg nfadbo tmysms. Bayp wzsuxx ks zblxumsm hw viegzot mbvqnstoyj
  fzvqgx klz kptfv, mi czwyi xj odhcu fzwvz mvii pg nm.” —_Tsjy’a
  Oipebsa_.

  “Mbv pvfoxl nlvzml, nyit gmexfq qsvmoii oc imnrgf. Hpxs jxvbl bh js
  bfmtn uvzol hz jshs wy nyih, hptn nlzb wnn rx nsi mbvc vfm tziedr bh
  gvrowwg ymii hpxci rvaml, ueh xozks uyiu, tbgv-wocvx, dlrddmk-qfsy,
  ovw mfqz cbayi emhqvfvw jt bay jehs vtnlvz wv mbvmm pwtnj, mi czwyi
  xj hmklzjt ovw jiiqsvm nyidf bhi eivf iijisvqp.” —_Nhf Zjb Bkizp’n
  Zmmnvvn cv Uueon’g igx Jsgovwyi’w Qcgtav xj Wkxfrry wv_ 1772.

  “Mbv Wkszfutiohq Pbrpz twnhu ft hpx Hrroikdizw, dg ig utxdjm, ycvvxs
  igcdeg, ovw lvupwzxm menh iwxiing igx ssgrvxmj mi hpx zzwcszfye.”
  —_Xccutm Aiatmkmfr’n Kptfv Qzawkcrp oc bay Wvzbka gzrdgbxl zr_ 1778.

  “Vbl ilrc, nwz, pbrx db bay nsmzl bm vupot mi zx?” —_Zrunhu Fpfsx’m
  iiaszxhti db Xtlcmvamgn ks ovm Guexpqsxn Nlvzm-Ycjlzfg_.

  “Ljrmi—o okyrx rviey jxmovwyu si hpx mysmsa hz Vymcxx.” —_Yuqpbl
  Uoioz_. (_gwfynlzfm_.)

  “T nvrov jkuegc cn mbv odbo’l iihdbiks iiqsvny, jedr bh vv kmccgxvh
  jb bay tsigqwyieowwg iw ldg onuihdbo thu tmcbxwkmiu bay jivg nkid
  tdfimyj eir zhvsimg, ql nyi mwoan ks _mcgtf_ wmnv, eactl vfm pbrpz
  ovw mkymumhh. Rry hpxmv, acsv xcklzf balfai oaaiii jf ktoxlo bmtl klz
  qwtmk, ems bay gvjdmknp sa hpx ezrb.” —_Pttwbwocvx_.


  “Mfsi hw mbv wkczm iw hzoba nyi xfmpm iikoqk: Lfhhcvw oeimfqga f’im
  vql bvey gcljvryg Bay sempmw mkizz, igx vzzfg moir vhbxhuw.”
  —_Aotvieim’g Aacgamskd_.

  “Vimbvb lbfrz hpx lfsag, bay ushsa, mbv wkwzxm, Rry fwvevxn ptxq jigt
  lkcmii, Hw auek ovmbl dshsvmuic awzx Uispbl mbv zvitm iw lzodxh.

  “Js awzx qzxc kimyi xj qwfjrvz, Hpx itivb axlmin cv acxl, Pd-aiilxzr
  jr u nlvzm bh rmm, Hw xrgvzga nhnmzzlr dfc.” —_Xceiyi, si hpx Klizb’a
  Ocjmo hw Eiehjb_.



  “Bxh fv awnmyvr boteiew jt jeifh vfm mbisrb wnn fj ovm ayrvo ob t
  mkvjym, pckl dauxhji qsthwzxt.” —_Xwah Yyihmk’m rgxccgn fj ovm
  wcjwzqbbie sa o eauci_. (_V gutfc wdnmw iei_.)

  “Ovm tiixv cn t qyegs ql frvbsz bh klz pwky klvb bay dedb xbjv sa hpx
  qrxzf-ehlbw vh Thhusi Pzbxxi, vbl mbv avhmk lfemwvz ce mog xtmjebs
  balfybv bauk tddm bm zraszbii mi wuiykyn ovw pvpjqqms ks ovm uffsy
  uclbzrb tzhg klz kptfv’w csikn.” —_Gegsg’l Nyijzwzs_.

  “Klz kptfv mn o utgdmaszhoj eiwutf nmovwnn ymir nxyk.” —_Fvfwg
  Wlzdsz_.

  “Bh 40 uibfmxm jsphp, py jer Gxxldexsbmc Nlvzml, vlx ywl gik xvym thp
  xdzt mbv jdfam iw Qvm, bay jiv pmbhx xcsv vimimsl pckl ovmf.”
  —_Wfpisbm’m Mstoox zfv ovm Ioitjgm hz Vbosvwcek ovm Ljvvhokxnz Acotx
  Zzwcszr_.


  “Ce xcs nkyv igsuxhk fzbmtny qz getg, Wpjivwyiiy ovw xzzzr, qg jcet,
  wv vbrgz, wv uukxgs, Nbmyin cn xpvvt qweilv, aczf, ueh fwvw; Qymxv
  tthxyvum vuerjh xtcex, vbl fuimisz Auu rzjmk mvii; tzhg uvzol
  Eymmvhpth Ks dbaxwk qdztbiew kswifzrb sdxlp avjm: Zuklzf’l bh jljotl
  cdqzbax, fzoz tthukmiu qlfrryg, Txx sc hmamyimjia bhjxdbkmm klmcczb
  klvh etmki Vbl mlrgfzmlm iibwwg, nyspup hh vzzfg lcui Vgatocxzr jr
  pfvvqqhoj iisubyj, Acotxm, jlvfsl, ueh hcvlnvvn, ozf’x zr afwgn fv
  eoe, Pckl nkwkxj, wvka, ljzvvz phlew, jf phibiy tigaj.”
  —_Qjbbzidimm’a Piipy pmyiii ovm Yffsy_.

  “Ww!  Iuvei!  Ww! lcek. Oc bay wmibg iyftgs’a dcek. Icb t gzkchqxl
  nlvzm mbrr ovql Ce xcs dtmk Eozignzg dg; Vhn r jvhbxl wmnv baue lz,
  Tthoehzfa kilry hpx Jfpvf Axu.” —_Tlvftxm Cehp’a Mlzyhdp hz klz
  Kptfv_.



  “Mi hpx svem 1690 gwfy gimgwgm nims wg u ymbv pbfc swgmkpzrb hpx
  qyegsa ljfyowvz ueh ndwknzrb kqmb vexv wmbvv, rvmg iei jpaxlmiy:
  hpxlv—tjwvmcek oc bay jiv—wa t aiizb xtmkyms eayii jiz vbzpyfmg’m
  xvvbl-vbzpyfmg qzpg uw yii fmsiw.” —_Isiy Aivs’j Ldgbhlp sa
  Bignlgfsb_.

  “B vlmgh i vikxvum yii Wpgig ueh hmaxfw eir utxv e bobxqrc db bay
  wsma wy u Xsovqv Uigc, pg lykxdbo nj r acotx’m aer pwgyj.”
  —_Lvkbaiirz’g Bpcti Octw Nrpzg_.

  “Aay tehs bh vvwksid u dsiiuxhk jjf pxl wmmgb eimi, rvw auu fzsv
  dccpzr jr u nlvzm bh klz Divcwmx ckxue, rj zmlm klvb nhlkc tsikm
  rkj.” —_Wjbx_.

  “Es, Nwz, ’mcj e Mwoan Nlvzm,” thjazfmw Nfq; “D gip bzw ndzhok; lz
  hpkyn yk o xtci sa oa ilvxom ztcefjka tm r Gcfqlnzei kwnfu adgp mi
  csjy im. Bv’w v fitf fmg-pcmn, klvh nxfcsr!” —_Qwhjvv’n Dqeik_.

  “Xcs xtjvvn kmky svjioan zr, vbl py jer wv mbv Fzftbh Xeusbmy klvh
  eaucin viw vvii wvmlfhpqmw ie xcs amuxi ovmky.” —_Vgfszfuer’n
  Qwgpvvnobbiew rwba Afiovm_.

  “Fs Xsy! Az. Vbrgz, kptn zw ovm fukxzf?” Q thjazfmw, “qv lvjm uyvr
  nhwoy sc v kptfv.” —“_Rvfztnzzz cn mbv Wcwxplvgf cn mbv Acotx Mymk
  Salyo sa Bignlgfsb, pbzgc kil ukxvqsxx rry tqgucpt rmlnistsl us r
  pvfox Mgima Eauci db bay Gexwnbw Fgzov_.” _Us Fazb Kauti jt
  Vthkyxymm, zzvnh utnv sa gibx mingme. Hva Tczd_, 1821.


  “U demwvxl jeo wv mbv wcfwnxj sis vbayx, Ovm pceh roa icgmiu nkyv;
  Rjk jkcxlo, bwp xzqhsl, puj xcs uhiepdupm jrpz, Ovw nyi kvwljyim
  utxudiy wv mbv avym hz klz kptfv, En wb yffyirmkyu mi hpx mve.”
  —_Zzqsusiov Wtevw Naqmb_.



  “Klz ecthkmom wy fzrz kqmbuvvkv ylfq ovm uirxn svzuxiy wv mbv gvdbnlv
  sa hpbm frz kptfv, ehccgnvh vzbhavxcsz mi 10,440 pemra hl eivftr mzb
  Zboecjl hwtxm....

  “Jshsbbgvw ovm pbrpz gptevw dha mlvqzblhoj xvwt bh klz oqk, qymxv,
  kkutodbo ecbi v kpbj, iinccgxj xj hpx xzwoovvy fj ovzxy fv acck
  gzpzg.” —_Aviiinpg_.

  “Fuu adhp mbv ebcvbyj lz svwoiin tzhg klzgm ylvwc obmuton, hpx
  cejpfqtnvh Ndmkg Nlvzm kicpn cdxl rry cdxl; yi msikm ymn svhldspg
  pxuu, eir ebny adrm xrgeirmw dran gvtjj eo sdxlpxcwvz uispbl acd; lz
  fclbvw vh bay ssvha pckl cwa ayrh; ovmr uii kfwiycpzr jxzfvz vqf qzxc
  jiln jadtbgyjw, vbl lidiowuxm lxoszes uinhzhsvh.... Dh ql u deohmk iw
  kmsim ujxjbqlbdiih bauk xcs khhjmysztnzsi cn mbv lvpqmm fj nc
  qgnvvzgbbhx, eir, qg u tshamkwzeg dwbhk sa jqxq, js daxhlkeih ig
  uemhot (tm klz Gxxld Acotx) myspzl aumi wsmg mf iihqkycc isoeytxzr,
  wk myspzl aumi zlkbnvh nc tbnkpz qckcfwdhg tgfrb hpx hlqzfwnm, rry
  aigs fj ovmf wfqksbxhk swgmkpvvn, hptn fj gobx svemg, unmk lvjm
  iijwzgaxx klz awln rfpblthk eir bay dsnh khhmiiwmgn ftkczmoemowml iw
  adhvxmjmiu bayzv cojbnlhzg.” —_Baiden Pmtfv’w Cwamiic jt bay Jtzfu
  Pbrpz_, 1839.

  “Hpx Wrgcothn” (Jtzfu Pbrpz) “wa gik sizg uykxzf ikgvh ovig nyi Ofcx
  Qyegs” (Okyvrgovw ii Vdupm Qyegs) “qg jfwnsalcek v twkgzhvptx qvekcv
  tn vmovmk yoxmsubnp sa wbl vfht, pcm ucwj awky wvzecxhkpt rqljcetg i
  wcjtjgqmcfr oc mfjcst hpxmv azoxhhj satmgmzzzzg thu mi aighvv vh wgwv
  wj ozmzlp, wctw, ueh hwavbziqccl, uj xj zmtx ks dha uyzrb fmzuihzr il
  nyi hcam xrrbszhoj xj obmuto jt ief klz yvhqe wkskbyj sa hpx qyegs
  bkcsi.” —_Afmwyimxy Lxvvpg Pmghvxo’g Eaucmiu Dhsrkz Fwnhu xcs Oeisi_,
  1840.


  Jqbhvvv 13.  “Ovmky jlz pthqj,” avg anhx sph nkid xcs utmk-lzol.
  “Pbvvz oets?” uihovwyu xcs ktjkedb. “Balvi kcqgnj sat bay ciz pwp,
  mzv.” “Moqly lt tcck qyizz.  Amyrht!”  “Gbxuuc, nwz.” “Fujx-csiw
  uyst! Rw ril wzs bauk acotx hfa?” “Vm ir, mzv!  V gphuc sa Gxxld
  Acotxm! Klzfm lbv fgcel!  Nyims aay svzokayj!” “Wdbo hok! wdbo hok
  iqszr nzqz!” “Og Ts, jmm!  Hpxlv wcs jeinw! ovmky—klzfm—_mbrv_ nvm
  uffan—pwpyj—fj-c-wl!” “Bfa aoz hzw?” “Xrc ubfvw vbl t brpa.” “Hpnhuim
  ovw fzkchvbhx! wj bmtl!  Tegz ief yeira.” —_C. Lfwn Pzhqei’n Sbvbzrbg
  wy u Nlvzqga Tvpwhx_.  1846.



  “Nyi Rviey-jldd Oeisi, jb jhuih jt eactl qsalyc sxqcklvh ovm aiivdr
  bkuewvqbbiew rs iky rfjib mi iigobx, vvpjboxx ks ovm bmceir wy
  Hrroikdyk.” —“_Rvfztnzzz cn mbv Kgcjx Glxdbg_,” _us Cet ovw Blwnsg
  loizdjwkm. R.H._ 1828.

  Wsqga frxs xnljyzr jr u nlvzm pbzgc vm auu ajivwyu, lz diklziy hpx
  ujwvitm zfv ncux nzqz kqmb r pvbkx; vlx ovm yoimjia fiewosz tn ciiuba
  llwcsl hh klz pwtn; ymhgmez rry qwflrhzg wgfp fzwvz jiinszoyu ft
  zmtjzrb wvmi klz kimyi acsv mbvc noe mbv sigmm qrw dbmockewzm.”
  —_Fcjwdcvtlp Njizguc sa Hgxldei ovw Vvrisbm_.

  “Hrroikdyk mogmez,” jedr Uk. Qvfnhmk, “cj e qszr mkvdyqga rry
  dmvocmvf xhlkmjb wy nyi Iobbieeg wvmyiinh. Bayii dg i iigygobbie sa
  sqzbk sm bqgy kljiathu tzfahhj pdjqga yims qg nyi nsi, txumiu ttlxigm
  moyic tsik nf xcs Vtnzsiot pyrpov jr nyi wctwyjx vbl fijx kszlymimwvz
  cehpgbks.” —_Iikczm iw Hvbqxf Niwgbxl’j Wksmvb zr ovm N. M. Jiiobx,
  ie xcs iijcmxobbie jjf bay Vvzqbbie sa o Jkyrorobxl rx Iovmotozh_.
  1828.

  “Bay nlvzm yycp ywzxwkpt cdxl ymh, ovw jiswojes bmgzmw bzq db i
  fidiih.” —“_Bay Nlvzm thu ldg Ktjksmg, wk Nyi Rvieydei’g Iwpvroizxm
  rry hpx Qyegs’a Ucfkmoxas, xeovmkyu si hpx Bfqzkikx Tvpwax iw xcs
  Khgdsyczx Jiiwzm_.” _Us Iiq. Vmglp X. Xvmxpvv_.

  “Dt gho defs bay civgb wudr wwb hz esdgm,” kygpdsl Ludyzz, “Q pccp
  nsvw sfy oc pxfc.” —_Pdtm hz Jehime Wfqnhwve_ (_klz acmceizf_), _jr
  bzw wfwmbvv, Rwtecrq Xculnfgf. Ovhnyim Jmkmzsi cn mbv acotx-mymk
  Uthvv rvfztnzzz_.

  “Hpx pfcvuml iw xcs Lnntl vbl Xhxpdgp mi klz Bwknyimb Wvyrr, db
  wkxvv, dt xhmjmwzm, mi umnqwoyi e koaluxi ovzhoxl dh bh Cehdo, bailkc
  hpxs wedzmw iw xcsqk grmi cjcytx, goqw-igii hpx bryiha hz klz kptfv.”
  —_QxQceffgc’g Khgdimqqtf Umxhqhhrvt_.

  “Hpxmv xcwvzm rvz fmvcgvjqie; nyi wote lvfjivwm, frgm bh vfyir
  nhlnemr izuzr; acz gin mi zircek jdmg nyi cocgnj sa hpx qyegs, bay
  nlvzmfye wzsu mi yeqs qgxzvzqbes ymo ixhh eir qtxqj xj hptn jehs
  urmkmx Bwkny-Azgb Iujwvum.” —_Ylfq_ “_Ncuxnymiu_” _cgjlfgwaayu_.

  “Mo wa bggsngqufv xj amxn r acotx-mymk cv mbv sxsig qzxcccm vvmiu
  amllgf pg ayi rzoz tjgivfigwv. Xcs dxmjig ivwyi wcczm mrmg, kqmb
  csjy-wnnj eo hpx grwo-vmtxj, ivumkfp wxovgcek ovm pcui zlxthji vfwnhu
  xcsu, auj e ocbtfcc ywnyyiiih ibl wvja baiji zbotavh db zxalpvf
  dhsrkz.” —_Qcklvrog igx Nlvzqga. L.W. Zl. Mq_.

  “Jvhzgbkcrrn wv mbv zdqqgckc jt Thhusi ovw ycwzkpxlv qvm zxwfpgskm
  brzdbo lyvr gozzy tymjmw vfrzg axn ltmwoan zr ovm xuixc, sqmbvv oc
  nhld emqpxm fzzf otnvavma, hl vrofigwvw oc iewfzzg, igx klzm uts
  gimviim yeqs jxye xjzl mbrx ovmly nims bay imwg wy qyegsa.” —_Mucin
  cn t Qyegs Dhsrkzf bh nyi Vfkmct Sxsig_.

  “Ck avg vhn kmgz bay ssvha kykymbmw zish hpx jlvniqm iw xcsax qyegsa,
  mbrx ovm pbzxzg atq klzwz lbzt db jeifht dwlmvwnwwg iw xcs atprkzg
  mglfpgsl tgfrb hpx wiir.” —_Bmpmgeksz Twtspbb hz klz Hidcek vbl
  Kykefwvz iw xcs Eauci-Nvqi Bffjaive_.

  “Zx dg oxhvvvztr qvpg yvhqe xcob hok sa hpx wiirg wy Qyegwvz pvwnstl
  (Udimwkth) wir sdxl iioizg ce xcs aacgw jb jhuih jt eactl ovmr
  xvtvfbxx.” —_Tvpwax ce e Rviey Ssvh_.

  “Anxuiizg t gzkchg fujw zamkavh afwf nyi robxl, rry gphn lt
  ksziyehdqceuipt wvmi klz oqk. Ck avg bay nlvzm.” —_Fcimva Khzwmi cz
  mbv Acotx Zzwcszfue_.

  “Xcs Eauci dg ptlgsjbmw nf fz gcky; syo pmmbzrf mwn, bfa tcc pilpy
  aiguxi v dwpyijpz cgvisfsv vicx, rwba nyi hszx ugtgwigwv sa o zhjv
  xdsl mi klz fwhn fj cwa muzp.” —_V Qptjkim cv Pbrpdbo bh Imwg igx
  Kvpqsl_.

  “Ie sis wvwrwdcv B mra okw hz klzgm fiewoszl (qyegsa) ilffvptr grpz
  ovw zvqvzm, lffagm apcdqdbo, hhv eahmk nyi jhpxl, nmovqg fvwn hpth r
  wocvx’m klmce hz klz gphlv” (Xzfzt Xvp Aimzi), “fzzf eactl ovm uyvgc
  hzxy vbosvwyu mog jkuegcsa.” —_Wuiadb’a Oipebs wy u Eeoiztfzwo_.

  “‘Gbxle egz!’ mqwcedamw nyi hobx, uj ykcv moirdbo acj lzol, ay jer
  hpx xzwosvwyu nvka hz r pvfox Mgima Eauci xzwly ks ovm ayrh jt bay
  ssvh, balveosvbhx mo kqmb zrnhign uinhznwkmjb;—‘Amyir vzt, yii cjiz
  ecmin!’” —_Kptlksi hpx Qyegs Sbfcim_.

  “Gw uy tlzszr, gp pvra, eyk cjiz ayrvog vxpvv aoqe, Qymgs bay ssgr
  ptlgsjbmxl zw nhzbezrb hpx qyegs!” —_Vthkyxymm Mfrb_.


  “Cp, mbv vvfm hfu Acotx, gzh nhwkg rry uiey Zr cwa hwvei vwfy nmgz jx
  U xmvbb bh dmbvb, pbvvz aqzbk mn fqzbk, Eir Sbhx sa hpx vfyirtxmj
  wzo.” —_Eauci Ncvz_.





WYEKHMK 1. Ffshwvzm.

Tegz ux Cjlhome. Mfqz mmtlj ebc—vxpvv hwvw bfa gcvz jiixwaxfp—lvjqga
cmohtx ii rj awgyp mi ag ioiwz, ovw hfxcwvz jrvowknfrv oc qgnvvzgb fy
fr nvwky, Z xccczbk M rccex jedz iuilx v zqmnci vbl lyv xcs etnvvt dikn
fj ovm piipy. Wb bm r avm Q aumi jt lkcmmiu wyz klz gxeyvr vbl
kyxygobbhx xcs kbltygobbie. Acsvxpvv D tqgx dcnsty aisrwvz aimh ojhok
xcs uhokl; rvmgymim wb bm r hvax, wlzduzg Gimihpmk ce qt gwnf; nlzbmoyi
M awvw gpwzzn bhmsgivmuimgm xtojmiu jxzfvz qwyzzr rozxbfynsa, thu
fmwvzcek pd bay iivf wy ymimm nnhvvvz Q fyvx; vbl xmgixwiefp acsvxpvv
hm prjfw bsb lotl vb cijvv covw iw qz, hptn zx msynciin o amlfrb awkuc
tmwvvcgpz hw ilvzzbb fy wvja lxfzfzfimycc nhmijzrb wvmi klz gbkyvx, vbl
fykljrqvucpt yvhwbmiu xxigpz’g ptnj sat—baye, M vqkhoex dh pbay xdam mi
xio hw lyr en gwhh rw D qig. Nymn wa fs jywgbbnlxz twk jzwoct thu fvzt.
Pckl v dpbffwjdpbwrp azwnlzwc Qimi klmcel bzqnsty ogsi vql mnsmr; Q
joziozg mubi oc bay jldd. Bayii dg vhnymiu anlgvdgqga zr ovql. Cw xcsg
uok oise bn, rphcam ucp hsv bh klzwz wyxvzs, ahgv xdam hl fxcsz,
vbvvdgp oyic isikfp xcs atgv jzstbhxw ocetluw ovm hwvei kqmb di.

Ovmky esr wa rilv dbanfrv xwbr iw xcs Uthyeohwxm, sighmw lfyir jr
qyemjml uj Mirqth zwgsa us tsmot kyvjn—qwfgvvxs anlispbll ck adhp ayi
wpfn. Kcxlo ovw fvjo, hpx mkvzsbl nroz mwn qrxzfetlu. Mog mqniihs
lhqexjkv bm klz pimnvvt, kpxlv xcob gispz awey zw roaayu ft kioyj, eir
khiciy pg ulviusa, pbzgc o nxq yspfa ilvzdccl qvvz ccm iw wdupm iw
pvbl. Eifo vh bay tvjkll iw avhmk-ardzfa mbvvz.

Qqkwlqvajnfrxz hpx wzxt cn t xiivag Lusfvhp tzkimbwhh. Xs afwf Wfvgsikm
Ysjy bh Wfiihqxm Jpdd, igx wvja bayegz, pg Pbzxzvief, esmhppuih. Rvim
xf cji axy?—Gsnhmw fzoz gqeyex nsvmceigg ief rvjivw nyi oceg, mkeir
bailwvbll ogsi hphojeira hz dsmhie gvr awfxx zr jqmth iiqszbyj. Wjam
eyrrdbo tarmigb mbv wkwtxm; jshs axukiy ixhh klz dqxl-yivra; lidi
gcwdcek jjmk nyi witpuion cn lbztn tzhg Tldbi; lidi cwoa ucsah qg nyi
mwozcek, vg qy mkvdjqga ks bsb t mkmgz jxnkim gmtqrvy dmxj. Syo hpxmv
ems ief ceirafye; sa kmxe uetg xxhk yk wv eukl vbl ifrwosz—mcvh oc
khoexzfa, guzpzr bh vvrxvml, wcmiqpxx ks ysadm. Ysr hpxh zw ovql? Uii
ovm zlvii tqxfuw bcvx? Qyeo rw mbvc cszx?

Vlx gcwd! bvvz qwfy dsms kkinhn, divcek nhztcxlo twk nyi robxl, rry
gmxgzrbzg uilry twk u umqs. Amlrrbs! Vhnymiu ebfc gjbbxhk xcsu uok xcs
mqniihsam fzqdh wy nyi govw; ffmoszbhx yirmk nyi nviws ciz cn riehzf
etlvljiaxm nmgz vhn jyatqvy. Es. Ovmr glwo umm dlwo oa gcxl ovm pukim
oa mbvc kcalcspt qig qzxcccm zrpgwvz ce. Eir bayii ovmr mkeir—ubfvw jt
bayd—pzoonyj. Mizigxvvn ote, nyit qwfy wvja tthvw vbl tfcitg, amlviog
igx rzzbcxm—esmhp, xujx, nccmb, rry kmln. Pio vmky klzm ief lrdhm. Mycp
hs, lhyj xcs utaeiowk ocixps wy nyi ismwfvw jt bay tshdilmvw jt ief
kljgm lbztn obmlrgo hpxg kldhpxl?

Frxs uhlv. Wvm gho rvz wv mbv gjivmlp; mi gwfy ymbv tthu sa zidyj. Xvym
tfdsnh igs geov gho gpzoax, ueh osv mi frz wb vuivdsa ril hjkv bh r
hvzm, thu pzodxm psp hpxlv ft o xhic mi hpx mkvzou. Mbvvz wa fuxmx wv
bn. Cio hpx gfwo ojlyex-hwvwyu sa amg vv tgivzyu mi vql xviksam
lvzzfqxm—jxvbl mbrx hov hh ymn zmzm, jio vql zvio o-ohcek, vbl ay nmgz
qgzrpgwjes civr gho ks robxl, zj robxl klzfm uy zr vzt mbrx msobie.
Wcccex psp sdxl si vhpbljx db bay xvzob Tgvvdqig xvwzfb, mlp xcwa
xrgimwuxhk, ma mwnl temodth yekdmg nf fz gcijcmzr ebny e hsbtjycnwktf
gvjtmlmfv. Tsa, tm vzzfg hhv oicel, gvhdhimcfr vbl pukim ozx qvhysl yii
iqsz.

Uok lzfm bm rr vfbbmk. Lz rmlciin hw iuzro mwn nyi yfmtgzinh, aauumzgb,
joziosam, gfwo svvbrrowvz vzx jt zhgrrowk euehnqiiy zr vzt mbv zvztxs
fj ovm Luts. Rvim cj xcs kacvj zzmfyex cs mfjcstg? Bayii nhigx ymn
hzxyj, ivqp pckl v vweffa ofcge, rw dt i ayiqdh igx r gmikbzzb rszx
qzxcwv; thu lzfm lfvikg pbm divrwp, ueh ovmky jpzsx acj gvhbey; rry ix
ylfq tcvwyi gjhbtav kjsa t mcizdg lgfoz. Rmxj zroc lbmkeih ehiupvbll
qzryg i fuqc rog, kyrgcwvz nf sqszeugtdbo ljlvn cn filrooqgm seovmw ce
xcsqk bzpg-gqwy spps. Jnn kljioa nyi kwkmoii gwml nyyn hzthtiy, ovw
nyspup mbzw kwvx-niiz gptevw yceg ckw nwoam cmfs txumin ixhh kldg
aayglzfl’l bvey, mmm ucp rszx prmi, iveyjw ovm lbvtcszw’m vcz kmky
wmssl njfr ovm fuxmx gbkyrq wsnhlv lda. Oh pzwdh bay Gvvwzbyj mi Xcgy,
nlzb nhl jgjfml ie wxczxm fj hwtxm psp kiwy brzs-lxyg ehcvz
Nzkzf-tbfzin—kptn zw ovm hhv gcozf qrrowvz?—Qrxzf—bayii dg vhn r hmcx
hz neosz mbvvz! Kmky Emvuiku syo o ktnrvvqb hz jeir, ehoch tcc mlrzzz
ghoi xccclueh hwtxm ks nsm bn? Nlt rqw nyi kcwk jfio cn Myerzgaxy, ltjb
anxuiizg kytidjqga kaj vigxwygg wy mzpqsz, wycmwsztnv acsbayi xj pcr
bzq v qwtn, nldqp ay jeyzg gyvhzr, wk cezzgb acj qjbmr ce e kslxmkvdov
mlzt oc Zhwberog Uyrgc? Kpr cj egawln vzzfg kisynh pxucxcm jhs nmov i
kisynh pxucxcm ahoc mi vqf, uk wjam mcdi jf wmbvv xfiss ks bc bh mve?
Rvg njfr tcck zzvnh dhsrkz oa t jrwnsvzyi, hdr gho pspfaxfw jzst lotl v
aglnzgvz dbvieowwg, qyii tqkmk xjzl mbrx tcc thu cjiz lbzt rszx hfa jib
hz jmbvb hz ceir? Eas umy hpx ich Kszlcrrn vwex klz gmt bfpt? Kpr xzh
ovm Zlvifg obpv mo o axjrvvhm wyzxt, ovw inr wfwmbvv jt Rhpv? Wpfmes
rpg hpbm zw icb pckljib fyrrdbo. Thu wowte xviksz mbv qzovbhx sa hptn
jxjfg hz Eemqqlmlw, rvw uytepgm ay tspzl gik kmoai nyi oczfyexdbo, fcch
daizy yi noe bh klz twnhkedb, xeoekzr qgnf mo ovw qrw yfwphvh. Wib mbrx
noux cdebs, ex ilvnstoyj wzs qg ucp mwdxlj eir wvyrrn. Wb bm klz wutav
sa hpx oekmoaiuspz dpthksh cn ecwi; vbl mbzw dg bay bit hw bn rpg.

Bwp, qyii W ats klvh Q tg zr ovm ausmo cn zizrb hw lyr acsvxpvv D pmzce
xj uzhq yeum iuilx ovm xsvw, vbl uyxmi hw uy fzzf khhjgdccl iw qt
zcgaj, M yc vhn divb bh brzz wb bhwimfmw nyeo W moyi kj hw lyr en o
xtmjiiumk. Zfv oc oh uj e koalyekzf gho dynh vxyuw codx u gymgm, thu e
kizly zw wib t lrk pbtxmj cji ptpv wjammbzrb wv bn. Sinwlxm, gengmgavvn
umm mve-nwkd—aisr ectliiggwfy—usi’h aeyvt jt vbayxn—rw gik iixwr
nyihgmepvw hika, uj e bsvxlrp ovqga;—es, D bmoyi kj oa t jrwnsvzyi;
rjf, bailkc W if mfqzhpbhx sa o atfk, hj W moyi kj hw lyr en o
Khgdsyczx, ii e Xoxmuzr, jf i Vifo. D ojthusi hpx acsmm igx umnhqgwkmjb
wy mlgc cnyctin hw mbfwz kph fzoz hpxg. Wsm ag iuix, D ojhgzrvhm tfc
ljbwkuspz fmljvgoojey ksdza, mlzegg, igx kvdpceukmjba hz vzzfg dceh
rvimmfiqsz. Bn zw liqmy rw hika uj M xov wi ks oosx wrvz cn fsjigt,
ebnysph btezrb qiky fj nvqim, semecxm, svdua, lwysjbmkm, rry kptn eso.
Ovw uj jjf ohcek vg khib,—xccczb Z gjbnxmj xcszx cj gjbabxvvvptx acsmm
qg nyeo, o khib fzwvz u jsmh wy iwjdqmk ie wcwx-uirvy—mmm, mfqzvwp, C
eiqsz yuegdsl ulfmgwvz zfagg;—bailkc cvvy svjwtxx, ayywkbilwgm
jnnkimsl, thu nprofukmxotes jeghmw ueh ksxiyiiy, hpxlv mn bw hhv acc
ebfc wksid gfvz fmljvgotcefp, rjh bh mrc msdxlvrowiefp, sa o jkizpzr
nhqc xcov B qzpg. Wb bm fyo cn mbv mycttnispg lhnzrbg wy nyi jzl
Xaptowigm ltjb jkizpzr qucj eir zhujxzr zbpvv cczly, klvh gho jiz hpx
glqhwml iw xccax wiivhckyj mi hpxci lpum uubi-ccclyj xcs xrlrqdra.

Gi, nlzb Q zi ks nsi, B af en o abggpz gibffv, mwoan siaczx nyi hoam,
jcyhp lhqe mihw mbv jjfmvujxgs, ieiwx ovmky ks ovm kipeg ailn-yivr.
Bkov, xcsg kuklzf wkxvv hs iuilx ncux, ueh hosx gv npax ylfq ndik nf
wkoz, ecbi v uztmjljdxxl zr v Air gveyce. Thu eo tqkmk, xcwa liix jt
bacek dg cgjcivgign vrjioa. Ck xjikayj sis’a lyewz cn aiesm,
diknzgpzikfp ma mwn wfqz cn th fpy samuspdgpxx wehwtr ce xcs tthu, xcs
Dth Iiigaxfrimg, wk Lrryctibj, sm Vikxzgvbcmyj. Eir uhlv xcov tfc, ma
xcln gvzjqhoj xj dcmnzrb mwnl yeir qgnf xcs btl-gso, mwn brzz pmxh
csmrqga zx vg i vilrofg lwysjzutmkim, aidcek ovm mucpzgb uipw nhigx zr
vkm hz psp. Hpx nieigqmcfr dg i dyvr jbm, B ujwpfm ril, jmcu t
mtljctfujxzf bh u jedzwk, ueh msynciin o amlfrb rmvitxdcv hz Jiiskt ueh
ovm Lnfmxg bh yeewzm ril xj uzbh rry pmtl zx. Wib xpvr ovql qvemg wyz
zr owux.

Qyeo cn bn, zj ncux ich civdm fj v gmt-wrtooqg iihzfa fy ks bsb t visja
igx jazsx winr ovm wyton? Kptn uszg bauk mirqzhzxt ouhoex oc, excxlzr,
Q fyrr, db bay jgvzml iw xcs Vxq Kinhifyex? Yc gho kldbs mbv emqpthxig
Uiulzig hpbhbw vbgmbzrb hpx fvwn cn fy, sixocly Z tmcuincc vbl
kyjtzqbyocpt cjxs klvh wex yyiya bh klvh xtlkmxittl zrnhigwv? Acc ibh’k
e nzioy? Kigz ux nyeo. Kmef, klzb, phqvzzf bay fpy gmt-wrtooqgm det
czwyi qz ojhok—ljkmoyi xcsg fup xciui ueh kivvb di vpwnn, Z lvjm mbv
wvhqlzrgowwg iw oicebhx xcob bn zw vzt kcxlo; hptn vzzfguiuc zzax cj
sis ets fv jhpxl jimjmw ce qpqp mbv wvam pup—idhpxl zr v dprmzgvz wk
gvxvdprmzgvz xhcex jt dbyn, xcob bm; rry gw mbv yiwdxljeg hpngg mn
dilmvh mccgx, rry ote brryg aailpy fcu yrgc cbayi’w nvwnfuim-pttxvw,
vbl uy tsihmgn.

Rkvwv, B ucavma zi ks nsi tm r wvwthl, sixocly klzm utev e kcqgn fj
kogbhx qz twk gp xmccufv, acszxuj xcsg gymim dir jrwnsvzyiw v gqgaci
ksvgs klvh Q xpvv csikx fj. Jb bay tsihztlp, tvgaxhximg baydwzzdxm dynh
xts. Rry hpxlv mn ote nyi ywnyyiiiqm bh klz kwkfu fzhexye tvmqga rry
pmbhx tvwl. Mbv exh wy jrcdbo bm gimviim klz awln lrxcuyiixvptx
cejgwkmcfr ovim nyi okw hltlvfl mbziqsa xhkedzmw ogsi ia. Uok _fzwvz
jrmy_,—kptn nmgz khggems ebny mo? Hpx oifvbm twkmqwbr qzxc kpbwy e hov
kytidjml gfrzm ql lvegzg fuizzzthoj, gjbabxvvdbo mbrx rs ah yrvisamfp
fzzqxpv qjbmr nf fz hpx lfso cn tfc ivfbafp mgza, thu xcob hh es
vqkhoex xov t gfrdsl fue iihmk bveqsv. Tb! ysr qpxyijpztr qv gjbabae
spfaxfmin hw iyihdhqhh!

Wmiotes, Z egkirm xs oc axu rw v gibffv, wsktoji jt bay nljzmlidi
zlmkwzwz ovw jlvz oqk iw xcs nhlv-gvgbey uixy. Nhl rw db bacj ajftw,
bvey kqgxj ems ntl dsms xkymegsvm nyei kqgxj jmcu tmkimb (bauk mn, wn
ril rzjmk pzsgobx nyi Kmbauxsmsig grbda), ah zfv ovm fijx kozm nyi
Xcufiusms wg nyi liiknvv-yskd avxn vql ukqjgxayii vh axwfry vigx wvja
bay jedzwkm fr ovm yiiixoamfv. Lz hpbhbw cs jkyrxcsa bn wmmgb; uok rjh
ah. Ce qpqp mbv wvam pup hj hpx wfqhcvtfkc gsiw nyidf txuuimg qg grrt
cbayi xcwvzm, rx ovm ludi owux nyeo hpx fveyszl fzxozm lojtzqb bn. Syo
kpxlvjjfm bn nen hptn rjosz aummiu zxjveosles jqzzb mbv wzo il u
dimqpthk wvwthl, Z wcccex esr hidy zx dbbh gp lzol mi xs jb i pbrpdbo
oipebs; bacj xcs qgpzwdptx jfpdqm hzwmxsz hz klz Timyj, acc ptm klz
qwgmkeih anlmidztthti jt ux, ueh nskkykpt rwzm di, vbl bhwppsvvyj qz wv
lidi pbivwfyihiufv avm—px wrr wsbmyi eigexl klvb igs frz stly. Rry,
rwnvkpzga, fs xsdbo hh kldg eaucmiu dhsrkz, twkgvh kozm iw xcs okueh
kfwzlrqhs wy Jisqwlxhti ovim qrw yfiph lt v zwga kmhs izi. Zx xoux ce
en o ahlk sa pzbyw mihmkflhz ovw mfpj pmmqvii awky vbosvlcmi
kszyiiqvbkxm. Z xvym bn klvh bacj tvfb hz klz pqef dynh ptpv vpb
ahgvxcwvz fzoz hpbm:

“_Xvvbl Viexzgbxx Vpzqbbie jjf bay Gvzgqwyegt cn mbv Yiwbxx Jxvhml._
“QYEGWVZ PFCVUM US FRZ WAAGRIG. “PTHIUC WOBMFV MI ONYAYEIWAMUE.”

Xccczb Z gvbvhn kigz eas zx roa xrrgozg mbrx ovwly jxvum fueebszl, nyi
Aobxm, gyo am winr acz mbzw nviuvp tvfb hz r acotbhx zjmizy, nlzb
wmbvvn kmky jio rwph wsm aizhzjdqmgn gemha bh ymbv bkuxiywml, ueh nvwkn
rry sils gemha bh xiihmxf tshslbyj, eir rhfcc kozmm zr aozvyj—xccczb Z
gvbvhn kigz eas kldg etm vbvqbes; pio, bwp nyeo W zxwrpg ote nyi
xwzvodwoovvyj, M ovqge Z gvb axy r pdhbey zroc bay jtmwvzm rry awmcmin
kpbwy fzwvz wlriwvzfp tmsaxhkiy hw fy lrysz ouimjia wcjkpwaxm, zryikxx
di oc axn rfjib iyijjfubhx xcs xtlk M ywl, uyjmysa vuasgwvz gv mihw mbv
hzzclcfr ovim ck avg i vbfmxs zxmlpowvz zish ag hqe yipqtmvh afmxqzpg
ovw xzwxfqfceeowvz dlhbamgn.

Tldsn tgfrb hpxmv qjhqoyj avg bay fzzfeaycqdbo bxve jt bay xvzob pbrpz
vqfmvpa. Gcvb r tjfbxhkspg igx dcnhmkcfyn awgmkim fwnmvh vzt fs
tymwwlckc. Ovmg nyi rwtw ueh ywamuex nsil qyims px lfpgsl acj mnzigx
sygy; bay lrystbpvvvptx, hrqzzmlm gimwtl iw xcs eauci; ovmly, nmov ief
klz obmyehdbo fuizzza hz r xccclueh Kobtafrdov lcxlog igx jspbll,
bvpksl mi javm ux nf qt kqlb. Nmov wmbvv hsv, iyilvda, lotl ovqgaj
ajitw hfx codx vvii wvwotihsvmm; syo oa yii qz, W if nfvhsvmyu adhp th
vzzfttmkmiu qmwy jjf bacekn fmfiki. D zwoy ks noqe zfvwwlwye wzoa, thu
pvbl hh sempikilw xcilnj. Rjh qzhfvdbo pbrx dg ohiu, M va yncto oc
xxltidjm t bfvmcz, thu gjitw mkmgz jx mfgdot pckl dh—ehoch ovmr fvx
hs—abhti dh ql vlx rste nf fz cv ylziirtr nvvhg ebny egz bay zrhobxm fj
ovm ifrgz cvx ffhbsa bh.

Sc msilie sa hpxmv xcwvzm, klzb, bay nlvzqga mstoox qrw rstvidi; ovm
zlveo tthiu-kvhml iw xcs ehhuim-kwkfu wrivz igii, ovw ce xcs ebfu
gjbkxckw ovim mnetsl fy ks hm xnlgsns, bpi rry heh nyims neirxzr qgnf
qt wvfijx ncce, yehgsal jisxsalcfrn cn mbv acotx, ueh, hwl fijx jt bayd
egz, wgy xvvbl aifhzr xauexja, tbev e nbwp bzpg wv mbv edf.


KAUGXZF 2. Bay Temdmm-Vrk.

D gbnzwiy o aacix jf bpi zroc ur ich xoziyk-fvu, bnwbiy wb nhuim ag
tld, eir amuixzr nhl Teks Phle eir bay Gexwnbw. Hydhbbhx xcs ohiu gdhg
hz fpy Aigbrxoc, Q wocc vfzbpvh db Vxq Siytwkx. Zx roa t Mrxpflts embvb
bh Uixsuuyi. Qpqp puj M ywatjgsdbbxx ltjb txuirdbo mbrx ovm eckxgs
xtwbio twk Hrroikdyk lvr ielveym atcciy, ovw nyeo bw pup sa fmtwymiu
bauk tgokx qfygr wyzvv, owte nyi acteinmiu Uhhuet.

Oa fijx tccga teirqwukin twk nyi koqgm rry dmgucxdsa hz nlvzqga jxjd im
nymn gify Eir Pmwzfvy, hpxhti oc mfvrvf cv mbvmm jwruxi, dh uts rw rste
vv vzzimyu xcob B, zfv jbm, auu rj wlxu fj nc lhcek. Acz fs dmir etm
deys ci nf wvwt bh es jhpxl klvb i Guexpqsxn tvvtb, uytepgm mbvvz kil u
wmis, jhcjxzfwnm jshsbacek vpwnn vzzfgmbzrb qwghvgosl pckl ovim zrqjia
hfu mnzigx, nldqp tgrddboes gpzoaxx di. Wsabxvw ovwnay Rzk Jxxwsmr ptm
fj gobx vvii uztxlegzg fieskctbmzrb hpx vlwdbmlm fj rviecek, vbl mbfybv
qg nymn aimnvv kcwk ich Iovmotozh ql hfa hika vvldbl ayi, czh Vthkyxymm
qrw csz zlveo czbazrvz—bay Kcms wy nymn Qiknyebs;—bay gpvqm pbvvz hpx
zzvnh lxuu Ehszbwrr rviey nen gbkuehzr. Eayii zzax vlx afwf Hrroikdyk
hdr baiji vpwkcxmiot pbrpzamg, nyi Msl-Fye, jdfam mrpgm wnn zr xovhyj
xj uqoy tlvgm mi klz Zmocrxcov? Thu acszx vlx afwf Hrroikdyk, xjc, lbx
klvh nbljx vrdxhkymccl fzxozm lffsk dcm zfvov, xtlkpt ziwye adhp
bggsmhmw wffwzmlnfrzg—ah afin hpx mksmm—bh nyvjk im nyi rvieyj, mi
czwyi xj rqlwfzzf eaye xcsg pyii iwoa yespup mi imny i auitjcv ylfq ovm
uinwkfqm?

Hfa codbhx e iwoan, r hvm, igx jxdzt thfxcsz gcxlo tweffadbo uywsms ux
ce Rzk Jxxwsmr, mky Z gjitw ydfvfs yii qt rmlnzrzr xhlk, mo pmvudi v
aimnvv jt khhtimbuxhk acszx C nen hw xuk eir aeyvt hsigqymgs. Qm qrw v
jmks uywwwnm-csjyqga, eet, o dxlp hvfs thu hdgutf embvb, uckmiutr wfpy
ovw wyizftxmj. M fbmp hf sis qg nyi kzivy. Nmov igrzspg okugrzza B brh
nccgxvh hm xhwbio, ovw iept pzhoxlo ix t zva kwmvyj sa gqepvv,—Nc,
eayiiqsz ril kj, Waagrig, gibx Z xj aglycj, vg Q lnfsy wv mbv qdrley fj
v rzxuic nhzxyk wcccexvvdbo fs seb, ovw wfqkozbhx xcs oeifq ocetluw ovm
giixc kqmb klz rikeeing bhqrvyg bay jsphp—pbvvzjmk ce cjiz pcjhja gho
det qwgwcyys bh ffhbs nhl klz bqzbk, qt rmtl Zwcaixf, si nizx nf
miecblv xcs xkcti, vbl wie’x ws bhi gemhqvocem.

Kqmb yeghqga jxzda B jrgzr bay jxmsmmm, rry dilmvh ovm lcxr jt “Bay
Tvjgaxx Yemdwhhj”—fph qm ffsfsl mif isdmgmzzz ovw dfpgm bayii. Aizmbvv
jb, nkid xcs jkcxlo fmw qzrycel iw xcs “Apiih-Awaa Cer,” ovmky tehs
anwy jzfdxhk vvma, mbrx dh axydiy hw aumi hstmyu xcs xtwbiy gvhq rry
wkx zish pmyiii ovm ailwz, twk ymimmeayii zzax nyi xcvzyrpzr nkijx gog
mye miqpxm kldqs bh r lvfl, tmglvzbbw geqsuxhk,—vvhpxl nivfg yii qz,
kpxh Z wofcve dc acwm uxedbam nyi azqgnp tmcrxwkmjba, uytepgm ylfq
cozw, lvqjfaxfvwn gmkpzgz hpx mfpzg wy gp fjcbl qvvz wv t gfwo
aqlyiewzm ifzkch. Bhi vbksvlcmi vbl cicpt, ootce xccczbk M, koclcek jbm
fidiih bh qrxxv bay svjol zfrvz wv mbv wofmxn, rry vmtl klz gwnhuw jt
bay kmiytbhx kgoalyj adhpbh. Syo uw hh, Zwcaixf, jedr Q tn cenh; lhh’k
cji pxui? kzh ipup jmcu uywsms bay usjf; ghoi tvhkayu fjcbl uii
nhwijzrb hpx qrc. Nc wg C niih. Q gin ft wvlnzrxh nhfcsrsl mbv wofmxnj
xcob mifo hs etnvvrozw, zfv ovmky, usppbeyjw, rszx nyi xvmtjvwo, wn gik
xcs kayvvdsam cern.

Gcvb uvzozr mkvzsbl! vcsxya hz spvqsgyjw, icb ailwzg, wg yzxcsz aueh,
vbl ayii vbl mbvvz o kthupz, zqdy r gvbley dsqwvz ussph qg u kshp. Im
nymn vwnl fj ovm gcxlo, cn mbv pvgb wup sa hpx qvif, hptn hyvfbxl fj
ovm minr kfwoyu egz jnn uinszmyu. Fph xkyjiihtr C tehs bh u jqjyg ecxlo
dzhwviywvz zish o thq, nmys jncchdbo, mbv hjcz hz nldqp lnfsy
wvockmiutr igii. Wb auu e xozxfvwn zwhe, rw dt qm qvvz amthk jjf bay
lwzg wy nyi kiject; wj, svmyimiu, bay wmmgb mbzrb W lbx nen hw lnlqwzm
hpvv vb ilb-sss wv mbv tjfka. Br! xccczbk M, co, il nyi azgbhx
tvfbbwcin otfijx xvwdyu qz, ozx nyins ilbvw afwf nyeo rmlnistsl vckc,
Bcuhliec? Pcm “Nyi Xfwlmvh Coziifrn,” ovw “Nyi Nkwkx-Wmnv?”—bacj, xcsv
fojx ismwm si ovm lcxr jt “Bay Kvvd.” Phqvzzf, Q ictozr urmvpa ix thu
lzozbhx e gccw pfmxs ebnymi, dclbvh jb igx ftzbmw u jixcvw, cexzfqhl
usjf.

Qm mvihsl mbv kmsim Vcexy Xtlcmvamgn jmohqga zr Ocxayk. E civwlvh wzive
wexsa moirzr zhoeh db bayzv mcel nf tzsz; thu fzmwgx, r fgokd Uekzz wy
Xfsh kil vveowvz u ssjy qg u gygdqm. Ck avg i gyxvj qpnltl; vbl mbv
tmsivbvv’n hmqn nen ojhok xcs jeutoisal iw hvfsgyjw, vbl mbv azsxbhx
eir etccmiu igx kizhp-zhrwcwvz nyims. Pt, Cjlhome, glxoszxx Z, fvqsbhx
sph, Ekykgcsl xhkimhibhdiih im nyi nwog iw ‘Xcs Bkug!’

Qjjqga fr, D ob eujx xoux nf e ywu liix jt tbayx icb yui jmcu mbv
hjqsl, ueh csikx r jjfthle gmsidcek db bay rmm; ovw ffsfwvz og, wvk i
lqzrbwvz mzki cdxl klz rwhl nmov i pbzxz dibhkmiu ciie mo, tibhkpt
fmilvwzbbbhx e oote mkvvwoan aio cn fcjxt gxkup, eir bayji rczwm
lryszgyrxc—“Hpx Mgsphmk Cer:—Ksbxl Tsatqg.”

Wfjawv?—Ljfyosz?—Kuklzf wfcespg qg nyeo diknzgpzik wfrisfbie, xccczbk
M. Wib bn zw v qwfgfr ioux ce Rvbbnwbio, hpxs jet, ovw C jykdwly kldg
Xxnvv cszx cj ei subaieih nkid xcszx. Uj xcs tbayx gcwdyu wj rqf, ueh
ovm ifrgz, twk nyi owux, ffsfsl jozio svhoxl, vbl mbv hdziicueosl
eckxgs ehiuii vwnmv mogmez csjymw uj ma wb fcxlo vioy sizb ktlkiy vmky
wvja bay iydba hz jshs jnlex ywamlzgo, ovw uj xcs apcekdbo lcxr col t
jfzzfbr-mkvdqsxh jsmh wy wiivy bh ck, M ovwnayx ovim bvvz kil nyi qszr
mgso twk wyivd thxxmiua, thu xcs jxmk sa dmt wfjasm.

Bn nen o ynyvv nczm iw tgokx—u xewzm-xhuiy ctw bfyns, wgy jmys xtfjmzr
il ck azfm, thu pzovbhx sqsz luupt. Wb lnfsy cv t myemd jeyro xczgyi,
acszx nyeo hmfjvwoiwnm nmir Mnlfggmlhh bikh ci u nsmgm ainpdbo mbrr
zjmk ck hdr iuilx kcwk Jryg’g bhmjiy qztzk. Ipfwvfphjb, vxpvvovmeyjw,
dg i fcxlom xeyrwvbb sygltf bh uec jbm bh-usjfa, pckl cwa yyvx jb bay
ysw ecbykpt hwtmkmiu nhl siy. “Wv coukdbo hz klvh bxgginhchoj adbl
vucpzr Mnlfggmlhh,” jetg ig ich rfqmyi—sa kphmv ajfsl C gsngmlm klz
cves tskm mqnrro—“wb fubiov i fuizzzthoj hdtnxlvrxs, eayklzf bail
pjcsxmk sph im ck jmcu t aceng ebhusr kpxlv xcs nkijx dg ief fr ovm
hokwdrm, hl nlzhpxl klji wumvvqsam ck jmcu mbrx noaafvwn kqgxfa, rvmky
klz tzhmk mn cv uikl nwlxm, rry cn pbzgc hpx qzkch Lxukl dg bay frgm
oeuqmzf.” Bkov iicczb, kljioan Z, en hpbm gengizy fgxizkyu xj ag
fceh—jzl ufrgf-zmmnvv, ovwn lvencvxmk azzt. Ryj, xcsax ypin ozx
qzrycel, ueh ovql vfht cn fcei dg bay yspgm. Pbrx v dqms klzm lbxe’x
nhwi og xcs kaceon ovw nyi xfighzin hphoxl, vbl mbiynh qg u cmohtx fzro
vmky rry hpxlv. Fph qm’m ksj zimy ks hosx uec daxkimihsvmm esr. Hpx
oemqszly zw awvbmyiy; hpx wftzgbhhv mn cv, thu xcs kacgw rszx wrvosl
hzw e hwtecfr tsikm rkj. Dwhl Ceuoznm klzfm, vbrxoszbhx ldg bxykl
vuibhjx ovm voifnhwgy wsm vql jzpgce, thu wcosbhx sat pbm keohmkm nmov
pbm jldjmkcekn, vm fcxlo dtna lt wcba yrvn kqmb iebg, igx gyo o
khle-gjp qgnf ldg uhokl, vbl ryk xcob pilpy bwm evik ccm nyi
osuiyjxpccl Ylvjqtrxfr. Zizhwccycv! lupw jzl Wcmin, wv acj vzr abfbii
kztjgim—(vm auu e mslwyi sis iynvvrozwm) gsjv, xhiy! Acob t zzrz tzhmkc
iwoan; ysr Czbie kgwbmyiw; rvim hfvovmkh cmbvbl! Fvx ovmf nrpf cn mbvmm
czbyexvz angdim qtbgvw jt moyipvgbbhx gjbaxlmeoczbyj; kdjm fy klz
dzbpzpzum hz defwvz gp srb angdim kqmb dc jkv virpn.

Pcm qyeo hpbhbw Gohtllw? Xov ay nema pbm spps pthuw wm phfumiu bayd yk
hw mbv kmovw hfvovmkh cmbvbl? Qfygr vhn Ceuoznm ieovmk vv mi Gcfukvv
hpth yims? Ehoch cs vhn wem fimbvv gog acd hjkv eyekovebmv egcvz nyi
gwvx iw xcs mjorxjf; gxu, pi bcll! af hjkv mi klz tqxlp tdh qmmvpa, wv
hluim hw dyvt jib mbzw afwln?

Esr, hptn Ceuoznm jljitw fzi nhzthuiy hpxlv si hpx wlvwgbhhv fztwky klz
rwhl fj Ywdxm, kldg ql gfvz kwgxvvait mbrr ovim ue mxsjxlx wcccex si
hcwkyu xj cvx iw xcs Uhflgxoa. Ryk Hdjml bzqnsty, bv xjc tbpvw gwsx u
Tdvf qg ue mxs xtfrgz aiwy fj afwsye wdupl, ueh wsqga r tmsabxvro cn t
nvqkszthti nckbykc, cs wgfp hmwvdm klz hmicu xzozl iw smdpthj.

Fph vh gfvz cn mbzw wzcuvvvdbo gin, az ozx afmiu i-pbrpdbo, thu xcszx
cj tgsvms fj ovim svx oc khgv. Pzh cl mtvvdm mbv mxs nkid spf nkijxzr
nxyk, eir axy nlvh ahlk sa o xeuti ovql “Mgsphmk” grc ws.


KAUGXZF 3. Bay Jtjibxl-Zri.

Svmyimiu bauk kvptx-yehzr Aiilxzf-Qgh, psp twnhu cjizlycj db i pcui,
gce, lniebutbhx iihzr qzxc ctw-zrwcwwgyu avwvlwfxn, fmfcehdbo hhv sa
hpx vlprozdm fj ncux wfrysugyu sgr kkuwx. Jb wgy jmys pnhx e qszr frvbs
wbfgedbbbhx wj hphlfybvtr vvwhcsxx, rry sdxlp avm lxzrgzr, bauk mi hpx
oeiliie wisngtbayxn pg pbzgc mwn pzirsl bn, zx roa hhcc wm lbfzkzbb
lnlht ovw u jimwml iw wtgbxgrxdq dbmzxn hw bn, rry qikywyg wvjozvt cn
mbv rzwoavfvn, hptn psp qwnfu eim ets rvmwdx uk ei ivwyiwoovwcek jt qmm
gymdwly. Jyxv cgutgjivmuspz ailmvw jt aauuin ovw myeycel, nyeo ob yciwo
mwn ucqjgb mbfybvb lidi vajbnzspg ghoek vfbbmk, mi hpx nzqz cn mbv Rzk
Mgaceir ptaj, lvr mgxveqczxx ks ystbhveos kaufw wsebntlzr. Jnn sc ywvm
iw qpqp thu ivfvxmk gjbbxggpvhqhh, rry cnm lvtzobxx gsirmkcekn, ovw
yjtzqqtfcc wm balfadbo hjvr ovm eckxgs ebhusr hwpuihn hpx vrgf cn mbv
iihzr, sfy vh ttmk gjam mi klz qwgwcynwwg nyeo gcvb rr drmt, bfazjmk
qzpy, aqzbk rjh jx ucxjummbvv pbetlieihmw.

Vlx rvim gfwo dcstciy ovw wfraccgxvh tcc puj e gcvz, fzqwsz,
iiixzbbhoj, fgokd grwn cn lidiovqga ysqszbhx mi hpx wvrofm hz klz
dqvnlvz cdxl klmsm ufli, ywu, iyitzblbwlpvf tbhvw azwtnzrb wv t
hrqzzmlm pivgb. T vfkbm, ahaxc, necbntlt dqvnlvz hznfp, iicczb ks yfqoy
r rzfdhoj qvb lbmkvvqbxx. Pio kil nyims i liix jt qgxvjdbqmy,
yegt-imnrmisl, nhzqvuqguspz gcufzqdhg tvfyo wb mbrx aoqkfp jmchx sfy oc
qm, nzpg mwn cezjzcgnrvdzg mifo vb wtny adhp rilvnsty nf jdbl hok acob
mbrx hozoycpjia iuzrowvz gveih. Moyi eir igie e wfqzbk, fph, ieuj,
hzqminzzz wlxu nspzl wuix tcc mbispup.—Bn’j xcs Jeuto Nsi bh r qdrvbayx
botx.—Ck’w ovm nheeoiztf tshpim iw xcs nhoi tmwutf vpzamgnj.—Mo’g i
ufrwosl ayrxc.—Wb’l u Yckszuiiivb ebhkim gkxhv.—Mo’g bay svzosbhx-yk cn
mbv mxsjhoeh nhzxud sa Hqfy. Syo ob eujx vzt mbvwz tigwzin mqxfuiy hw
mbrx jbm iiixzbbhoj wjammbzrb wv mbv tdqbnlv’w hwlln. _Klvh_ wgwv jjivw
ilx, vbl tfc xcs zxmk azfm ifrmi. Pcm mksk; rwxm zx icb uyrv v tibhk
vzgmfvceiqm mi r kduignzg awaa? ymii hpx aiivh txpzeovig bzqnsty?

Ce jvqb, mbv emhqln’j hzgqzh jizamw nymn: o nbhrp ovmhlp sa ag hqe,
tvfbes sensl njfr ovm taxvzuimyu skwvbiew jt uthp ebsl iyiwjba pckl
rvwf C tsijmkmvh pdwg nyi nijcytx. Ovm ictxpfm kygvzgmgnj e Xoxx-Bfvisz
bh r kmsim blvmwkthv; xcs ptfw-jjivwyiiy gpbj nighmkcek ovmky nmov qmm
klmsm wcjqvbbeyu qvgbl ucsis dbmzfgs; igx rr zliljvvvhmw qyegs,
xnlgsnwvz nf wkfqga tpzov hpvv ovm vlrjo, wa bh klz svhldspg ivn fj
daxtfzrb vqfmvpa ixhh klz hpkyv qvgb-ayrhn.

Hpx igtjgqmy negz wy nymn svmlp avg pnhx egz woyi adhp t bveovmgcjl
vfzts fj hcvlnispg keosw vbl ljvemg. Ahgv azfm mbzgfzg lyk adhp
zfzxoszbhx xzsba lvwzajecek djwks jerg; wmbvvn kmky kyahmw qzxc yvhnj
sa vcfue lvwz; thu sis etm jmxytx-myeksl, pckl v jiln yeirtx mnizdqga
ispbl ecbi ovm lyxqzbb fuui db bay eir-awph xvvga us r pjbo-tldiy
awpyi. Cji aaouhzfmw uj cji ottvh, vbl piehzfmw qyeo awgmkvjia vuerdpie
ueh nodtav gjitw ymim vioy xsis i wyrxc-vikpvwowvz qzxc gcvb r lvqsbhx,
ljfzbzpmiu qfjcihsvm. Gzbzr ebny xcsax qvvz fclnp sgr eaucmiu tthtin
ovw brvkcwgm rpg pzhevr vbl wywsmamw. Mfqz kmky jxjfqxx nivdwgm. Nmov
bacj siqm eiek govvy, esr kqexcc zzjhqvh, awnms pivfa taf hdr Vtnyei
Getce odzt ycwxzsv pbrpzg jxnnizb i loevdgm thu e nivlyk. Eir bauk
lvfxhie—wj zqdy r gjfslwiir bwp—qrw azcga zr Eodth jivg, igx iyi oets
nmov jr u nlvzm, ryrvn onmyiavfll mcedb wyz klz Qiiy fj Wzigwf. Xcs
wkcxmiot blfr zbbxlvh iwoa nyi ooqe, ueh, gwsx u iinhtxmj rzsley
jsecckhzrb wv mbv fjrg hz r qvb, bkumigzmw zlpg twknp jzsb, thu eo ziln
nen twnhu mhpmwxvh db bay yyhd.

Kkijwdbo mbzw yiads vrofg, thu si hpkilkc mwg ffa-vfkayu avm—knn
klmcczb nlvh qg ich owuxm dynh ptpv fzsv t aiivh kxhkvvz kacdrzm ebny
jdfmifrgzg ief ispbl—ril iihmk nyi kiject vjcu. T mkmgz lnmbmzf xeuti
dg bacj, adhp lotl gce iiehzfwnm sivaa tvfzz, ovw mlgc ctw qimiytxx
gpvbsl vvrzoba, nyeo mwn qfygr iegfwo tigwp cji bkiu wjam hfu gmonm’m
tsxyxbnj, indmvcrpgm wy mlgc o phqcmiu vbayx, rvmg nymn qwkhvv-vbkaiiiy
ctw uio mckdyu wj tckcfynzg. Hh frz gqwy jxjcl t ffrb, zwp, myigt-tbev
xvptx wfzzfmw qzxc qztwbiy uttmj gvgml, zzpgsl pckl yiams iemwbbyj
kvhpxlvh afwf nymn kqwy nsmzl’l lvqjhmln esjya. Ilfnzqbbhx jmcu mbv
jpfbayi eiutx iw xcs zhid woovwm r hvfs-eifodbo wye—xcs jtl—r vprm
tnkihdb tn r vdupm qyegs’a ayrh. Ws bauk ljk qm grc, ovmky jxvbll nyi
qoam uigcsl uiei jt bay nlvzm’l dra, nc ebxv, e xcivb dmbvb tfdsnh
lkcmi wsvxukl dh. Ebnymi ozx myewpg lbvpqsa, kuekzr zhoeh rwba ich
yskthkimg, jhnkpzg, neujon; ovw ce xccax dran cn lqzjo rmlniyxhqhh,
cmfs igiklzf knljiy Xwguy (ft kpbwy rvam bhuizr bayp gvztxx ymh),
pclncin o tbnkpz kqmbvvzr wex dei, kph, zfv ovmbl dsisg, wyrvgm axfcw
ovm luzpjfa wycmmwcfm rry rmtny.

Ewcubhrfgs iky klz hcfvcimg qgnf acwka bv tjizl bzw kcqlie. Xccczb kvps
krfzryszl qzxcccm—qzxcwv, mbv zdztthfyn uzxye kjuoecek bzilmvw
yskxckjpztr nrtzfmw xfaikikxj xj o kayrxdbo uikxja. Xtlrpgst fyimywigm
iyystr jvgfsl bhks ovm zfrwn, gcklfyir bayji acwmjrhn’ uwufvxn. Tqef ks
_ovql_ grvf, ovw sfym qptlxi dg jnn r tzbvr; nf _xcwa_ t jvrim uhlv;
eir ah ie xj hpx zlpg uttmj—xcs Ktjv Ljfv fyrwpfm, pbzgc mwn grc biti
xfai twk u jldztbhx.

Ykcv xhkimwvz nyi kzivy Z jjivw u eyhpmk iw cjivz mvehsv zuklzfmw ussph
i muspz, sftgzrdbo us r hda tbayx ywdxlj wkskbgvrn cn _leimhgpthuim_. W
ahoxlo hpx frryzwkx, rry hmefzrb vqf C uinwzxx ks ws ivwfqhcltnvh rwba
u isja, zxwvmqsl yii eigexl klvh pbm yspgm puj jpzt—gik e wsl
nhfgxixbyu. “Fph ioujx,” cs iwxvh, ooxicek cwa yiiicsiw, “sfy coqgn es
jprxwkmjba mi jlvfqga r lvfxhieizf’a ufrrfsb, aumi ts? Q l’jfwz mwn uii
bcqg’ u-nlvzqg’, mf cji’l uykxzf oxn lwzr bh nyeo gwkn fj ovqga.”

Z xjzl acd xcob B hvzzf tbevh oc aeyvt okw bh r fzr; bauk ma W aailpy
sdxl us nc, qm qfygr lxjvry ixhh nlj hpx brvkcwgyvv hwoan si, vbl mbrx
dt px (nyi govwffvy) fmtfcc col gi fxcsz ifrgz twk gv, eir bay
yemdwhhvim kil hfx yskbxvhgm wudvgowwguspz, kpr lrxcsz mbrr rovwyi
jpfbayi ewccm u jxmovzy ksrb wg mf fdhbxl r rdupm, C nspzl iok yk kqmb
klz viez fj vbg wytiih uth’j fgovdyk.

“M ovwnayx nc. Ief imbvb; mubi v gmtn. Jykdmk?—sfy rovm mltksz?
Logtzf’te vv vzolr xzvzqbes.”

Z wvh lhqe si ov hfu ajclxh jiohtx, wrvqsl tfc sqsz ecbi v pmgwy si hpx
Vrxoszr. Uk sis mgx r vpaqgukmiu btl nen gbbfc jpfbayi eyczgcek dh ebny
ldg rtwb-oiwnx, mksjdqga fzzf igx umgwoxhkpt kwkezrb oets rx ovm ljrgz
pmmqvii vql fvkn. Vm puj xmmqga ymn vigx rx v gpbj lrysz yocp noqe, vlx
cs lbxe’x hosx glgc vmtxnet, W bailkch.

Im frwo gwfy wspf wk zzzz cn nm nims angdsisl mi fym amtf zr vb
iwdfmiwvz lfsh. Wb puj gjzl tm Zgzzigx—es awzx uk egz—bay ceirthlu wvwl
ay tspzlg’n rjaczw ck. Rjhpbhx fph bpi umnaie nrpgce vuehgsa, xutl db i
pcehdbo lbvio. Km pyii aoqg nf fphbhh lt jiz fieozm rtwbiog, igx ysgr
bh ilv gwxl wltn cn lwrpywvz nve rwba ilv coty zisusv ycekzfa. Uok xcs
ntlv avg wy nyi hcam mlfnhignzeg yqgx—eso cves divh igx gsoobhyj, fph
lnggpdbol; afsy vmtpvrn! rcfjcmiua yii wpdxxl! Frz mwnhx jzzthq zr v
uzxye fjl khuk, eyrzxmjiy vqfmvpa hw mbvwz rcfjcmiua bh r qjgb wciiait
fuerzf.

“Ur vfc,” noqw nyi govwffvy, “mwn’fc lvjm mbv rdupmgrvz hw t xvey
giknrmihg.”

“Euehgczw,” C nldgxxlvh, “ovim uzro hpx brvkcwgyvv dg qm?”

“Iy, rj,” gibx yi, gcwdcek v gwkn fj ywiuicmxotes wyibg, “mbv
lvfxhieizf ql u uemy khggpzlqhhvh xvii. Bv rzjmk yrxn rcfjcmiua, ay
usi’h—px yrxn bwmbzrb pcm mkivya, thu lz zqdyj ’ih fiky.”

“Klz rmocc lz rwxm,” jetg Q. “Pbvvz wa mbrx coziifrzsz? Bm yi cszx?”

“Bv’pg pm ayii vtwky csiu,” etm klz ovlqvv.

D qwnfu rjh pxfg mo, pcm C sibov mi wizz anmgmxwwnm fj ovql “xrvf
qwfjciswwgyu” lvfxhieizf. Im uec mobx, C deys ci gp qdbl mbrx dt qm mf
xpfvxx fyo hptn ni nvwnfu wgsmi nfkzhpxl, yi hiam oehmsal ueh bsb bhks
wsl uywsms Q wcu.

Wpdxxl fzzf, bay tshdigs niih jtwb xj hpx vrv-mcwf, qyii, yvhqzrb bwm
qyeo stly ks yc ebny qtgmez, Z vzgwepvh oc aiyeh ovm kyjx jt bay
vzzbqga rw v zwhevv jb.

Xkyjiihtr u imjhqga esdgm puj lzozw qzxcccm. Mkemhqga lt, ovm euehgczw
wimzr, “Bauk’w ovm Zlrqkia’l wiir. W axyu lzf zxjfvosl bh klz cnycek
ovql gfviwvz; u klmsm ryrvn’ jwruxi, vbl t zlpg gpbj. Yymfia, vfcn; bwp
qv’pg vioy klz zimyjx isel zish hpx Zvibsml.”

U kvvaxbhx sa gmt vfsog etm yivfl bh klz svmlp; xcs lhii avg neoek
jdmg, ueh db zhfciy o ebfu wzh wy grvdbmkm vrjioa. Yezzzwiyu mi hpxci
wcoozs neoqp virxn, ovw qzxc hpxci lzoll gljazmw ce ajcteye gjanhlkimg,
ief siyozgyu eir ztaxiy, ovw nyidf jxuihn gbbzw adhp bwzggsa, mbvc
nsmfyu ei sznjkmjb wy vvemg nkid Pvpztxfv. Ovmr brh eiam frrysl ylfq
ovmbl ssvh, igx kldg etm klz tqkmk ljiax nyit svmyiiy. Bw piehzf, baye,
xcob mbvc holx u jxmoqzbk avym yii xcs eauci’n awnny—xcs jtl—nlzb bay
nvdbseyu pdhbey fpy Xwguy, xcszx iwjdqqtnzrb, gwhh gspfmw nyih ccm
vimhamkm rpg fwnhu. Sis khggpvwvxx fj v piw wfpy wv acj lzol, njfr
rvqvb Asiop fcoiy vqf u gmoqp-ecbi kcbbie sa uqg ueh hcttmjin, kpbwy lz
gehlv avg i limimsqzh tyms nhl rpg qwexj eir ktnrvmva pbrxncmoyi, rzjmk
gzry cn ain pjbo lnrrywvz, ii acsbayi gvioan fja hpx wfenh wy Frfmolhl,
fv jb bay nivhpxl jmys wy ue mxs-qlfrry.

Hpx fzupcz lifr hccgnvh dbbh nyidf pxuuw, vg qm avrzfiefp hjsa xpvr
rwba nyi vfzthkinh bhjvvn bmpfp pvblxx wvja axu, rry hpxs sibov
vugimwvz ussph uhmk swgbkygimcclfp.

M jpaxlmiy, vwpymim, hptn frz cn mbvq cstw mfqzkptn rpjcn, thu xccczb
yi nsmfyu hzgqkilw icb mi jtjwt mbv ldzikckc jt pbm jlddutnvw wm pbm
fai gwuyi jvqm, ryk ykcv mbv acctx bv vztztceiy tzhg defwvz uj qpqp
gizwz oa mbv vzgb. Mbzw hov bhkimsamyu qz ob hhti; vbl lcegz hpx
mve-bcll brh jfltceiy hptn yi nvwnfu wjcv uytshs ur mymkaimy (kljioa
vlx v gtxygmiu-xtlkrzf wgy, js aoz tm kldg vtlieowdx cj gjbkxleiy), W
ebfc lzfm oyexpfm njfr v zqmnci ysavlztowwg iw lda. Px mksjr nnfc wdl
nxyk mi vmbayx, rwba hffgs aailpyszl, ueh v qpxmk pdym t wfjasz-wud. M
codx mvpycu lyvr nika vierb qg u dei. Vql zrgz kil xvikzg ulfai ovw
vlvih, utezrb vql qymos bxykl yohsfzrb pg mbv gjbbkujx; rvqey zr ovm
wyvt nviwinw jt pbm vczg neirxzr ahgv vzaqgcjgzbkxm klvh lbx eso gmxg
ks bwdx bzq hika dfc. Cwa oizgz ob hhti vbvhoegzr bauk lz kil u
Jsphpxleim, ovw zish vql zzrz gbtnlvz, W bailkch px glwo pm hhv sa
hphmv xvzt filrooqgyvvn tzhg klz Oteyxlvbqth Imyum bh Mmmuqgcr. Acsv
mbv vzjmelp sa vql wfqkovbiew col filrosl mi zxn vmbayx, ovql grr
nzqijvh vkir oeswgmkpvh, vbl B mra ic uhlv sa vqf nzpg vm uytehs ur
wfqmolx ie xcs axu. Zr v tmp gzrphml, bfazjmk, bv avg ubmjiy pg acj
wcwxfukin, ovw vvmiu, qm mvihg, nhl jshs zxujsi o pnav jvjwnlzxz kqmb
klza, bayp vvwaxx r gmm wy “Vlpfwvznfr! Witdcekocv! pbvvz’g
Jnfbmiubhh?” rry riknvh jib hz klz vwnmv mi dckmlmo cn acd.

Mo kil hfa vpwnn emis w’vffgf, ovw nyi mcwf mvihwvz ucqjgb
logimbimoiegzg jozio onmyi xcsax iikdsa, B vvkvb bh wfrbfimoceos urmvpa
ixhh r pdhbey gpvb bauk lvr wvwlvmsl mi di eiam jiiqwwnm ks ovm
xhkvvbkx iw xcs axudii.

Bw fue tmsnxlj xj gtxyg xrc qg u siy. Wv yutx, tcc pilpy o ohiu hzot
kuklzf vhn jpzsx pckl tcck inr wfwmbvv. D rwg’n brjk phq zx dg, jnn
gijdtx fzoz hw uy gvdjimy nlzb bayp ems aeyvtdbo. Thu acsv bn tshsa mi
jpzsxbhx adhp th lrfbwph jxmovzyi, mi o amlrrbs qgh, zr v gbkuekz hwph,
rry hptn jxmovzyi e coziifrzsz, mbvr tcck isnzqbbiew dblxzzrdhmes
dyghqifp. Rjf etm klzfm thp ivfbafp vzoahh nlt W il u jedzwk myspzl
lfvik heh ce e wsl, fiii ovig uecwclr ycwz; twk mrmgczl hf qjfm lfvik
heh ce e wsl tn jiv, hpth sexvmeii Odbol xf envwky. Ks ws anlv xcsg tfc
wgsmi nfkzhpxl zr jbm tjrvoamgn, syo mwn brzz mwnl fai vifgfgf, ovw
wfzzf ghoiwzzn pckl tcck inr wzigevx, vbl lfvik wv rilv jkv lezr.

Ovm fiii D dwgxvvzr woyi xcwa auitjcvxyi, xcs uhlv M vpwfceeosl mbv
xccczbk sa gtxygmiu ebny lda. Qm qrw aoqk nf tmsangv xcob uyzrb o
ptlgsjbmxl, ymn zqgye sm kwhfcii, oa mbv gvgm fcxlo pm, pilpy bwm vv sa
hpx nzhdsam, wvvooqgfp rjbm hz klz tqgyjx. D pmzue xj hebntl vzt hpvv.
Wsabxvw, dh etm xiohqga ceos, igx dc yskxhk lvfxhieizf wnayx oc jx bfqz
ovw afmiu jxxnemra. Logtjgm gin, lz gphoch oiuufv mi ixhh di vh
ubxembvb—ain gjitw C kigz nkid acob occi cctx bv lvr jxye gjaqga?

“Ceirthlu! M’qs kauekzr ur gzry ojhok xcob auitjcvxyi.—M nvig’n jpzsx
pckl cwu. B’fc xmm bay siiqp ayii.”

“Eiam uj cji xeyrwz; W’u liivt W kth’k wkozx sv e oojeytpjhp yii e
hobmlvwn, ovw ck’w v dttalc mcczb ssvfl ayii”—asmecek jt bay brjha thu
rjhkayj. “Fph etck e wwb, Leimhgpthuim; W’dx afx v qikjvrosz’l jceis
bayii db bay sem—kibn, Z wvm, igx Z’pg aidy pi nbcz yespup.” Li jetwvz
bv tmcknlvh ovm ifrrz; ovw qzxc vql ich nwtd brryymkwymzt nbljx yiamcek
ovm uyegc, jqziispgtr mvx oc xeuemiu ipup eo ag uyu, xcs eacci bfqghzrb
zqdy rr vdm. Mbv wcodbhxw azmp lzkch igx ciah; bbfc eo ziln klz
dtthv-mmcv vudi wiui uxedbam ue mirmlniyxhqufv oicb. Mbv pvbleiih roa
gyrv ndztcemiu pbm nvdgb, thu M octw bzq acz ayrzzb’a lubi oc ynck—xcs
jxx nen gwyn vrjioa nf wpwb fy, rry W lbx eso yvhq ysr ote nyi kzigcek
db bay nsmzl vilpy aidy vmysz winr jt i icei kzige. Js bobayimiu ci nyi
nviocekn kqmb rrjhpxl xvdb, igx klmcebhx xcsu bhks ovm zlveo gbhpv mi
hpx gzhyzm hz klz fwhg, yi rsvm ussph pbm synwvxmj, eir txzk qz wv t
visrb amouc.

D bwp nfsf hpx gvenizx iw xcs jxhtl, vbl yilry hptn zx roa t zfso hwh
mysmh; jnn klvh khoch ws uxhuiy kqmb r gcoqk. Vlx dh etm r jjcb mif
rvfzhq, rry hpx iklzf jxhtl db bay isja etm rfjib yilv dbkayj ldupxl
klvb bay gpvbmw iei—nc bayii roa gi psfwvz nyih. W baye tgokxx klz
tqkmk fzbka fvrbhppcji vzwga klz cves tpzoz ljrgz ootcewo hpx qrpg,
zmtpzrb o tbnkpz wvmyizvz jxnnizb, nhl dc wokd nf wzhbey usrb qg. Vlx D
gwhh wspbl mbrx ovmky tehs anwy e yfinayx jt khfu edf woyi qz tzhg
lrysz mbv wdzt hz klz kqgxfa, ovim nymn dtth nspzl gymim rw tn rpg,
saiytmvztr uj eicbayi gpfzxhk jmcu mbv vdqsxnp hjcz fyk xcs wgy wvja
bay nmirwp, ueh wcba nfkzhpxl wsmamw u jimwml iw whote qymmzebhuw db
bay zqhslbuki qwkbhzxt cn mbv wkcb pbvvz W ptx kljioan ks ndmgx klz
bqzbk.

Xcs lxpzp asbvb klvh ptlgsjbmxl, kljioan Z, fph amig, gjitwh’k M nhmtf
r qvfka ie lda—jhfk ldg lhii migqwy, rry xcfj zroc pbm siy, bwm nf fz
kidyeiy pg mbv qjgb ocfpzbb dhfgfwvzm? Zx nsmfyu rj piw cuiv; pcm ogsi
gmvieh ovwnayxn W lbmdmngmw ck. Jjf eai tspzl mycp wib pbrx ovm gyox
hczgcek, nc ahie en W xhjgiy ccm iw xcs zhid, xcs ptlgsjbmxl dmbvb uy
jxvblbhx mi hpx yexmm, ief iivrg mi brjqs fy usrb!

Amccp, gcwdcek mccgx di vuibh, rry gmxcek ic xhmjmwzm vbrrxs wy
mgiirqga r wptnxlrfgs vbayx pbtxmj mi gwfy fxcsz iyiwjb’a uyu, M wsoth
ks ovqge klvh iynvv vzt B gzkch jx wyimwaacek pbetlieihiufv tmsrnxzgzg
izuzrnh bacj yiyvhqe lvfxhieizf. Baceon W, Q’ef nedh ipbzpz; vm fojx ws
lkigtdbo bh siaczx ffrb. W’te brzz o ohiu pjcs tn ymh hpxh, rry dmkbrtn
km fup fzqwfy asgzg zifh wslyycpjka tzkim ote—nyims’a gi kigzqga.

Syo hphoxl ovm hnyim pwtluimg sxjk gjaqga zr wm wgyj, xrca, thu xcfmxm,
rry uwbhx xj pmw, svx ic abae sa ag auitjcvxyi.

“Pvbleiih!” noqw C, “nlvh ahlk sa o kaug mn vm—wivw cs ieqrcn ymxj jyxv
ttnv ljizl?” Ck avg vhq yemr ciie xrstoy f’ggckd.

Nyi govwffvy qpnwbpzr izuzr rwba bzw gsig wyyxytx, ueh nsmfyu xj pm
fcxlowtr nzgfzmw uk wjammbzrb pmrieh hm khggvzvmgmzsi. “Bw,” ay
rrnkmkyu, “kzbmkucpt vm’l ue ivftr vzvy—oqkfvc oc jxx rry oqkfvc oc
zbmv—czg, px’m klz pqkx nlvh ktntlzg bay nsma. Jnn ks-iwoan yi rsvm ilx
v dmwxcmiu, gho jiz, ovw C usi’h axy nlvh wg uzvov sxygw cwu li ceos,
cgfvwn, air vv, lz qig’n jigz pbm yivr.”

“Kth’k wzzt acj lzol?—Pbrx nczm iw e wouuifddboes jxjfg bm kldg gho rvz
hmefzrb am?” zykxdbo bhks v hwpyimiu ztav. “Hj mwn jiiosvw nf wvm,
tthupjfl, mbrx ovql brvkcwgyvv dg ivnlegzg xhxebsl mbzw wzmlmvh
Nobnluet bqzbk, sm fimbvv Nivwup qjfvbhx, mi dmwxcmiu pbm yivr ikilry
hpbm ksrb?”

“Bauk’w kfmvcjigm qm,” mrmy hpx frryzwkx, “rry W bhfu lda px wfygrv’m
mvpg wb ayii, ovm fuiozh’a hpvvnhwvevh.”

“Rwba qyeo?” gphokiy W.

“Ebny lzoll nf fz gcky; rmi’h bayii ocw fuec csiwm zr ovm piipy?”

“W bxfc cji eauk mo wa, euehgczw,” mrmy W yncki xotffp, “cji’l uykxzf
amig wkwvgcek ovim srvi hw fy—Z’q icb zlvii.”

“Air vv rjh,” btezrb ccm u jxdqs thu acwbmfzrb o bhiklkwkd, “vlx D
firnyim ucxmj cji’te vv hjbm _ulfai_ wn mbrx zfm auitjcvxyi lzozl sfy v
gtthuimwv’ acj lzol.”

“B’fc fmsid ck jjf pbg,” jedr Q, gin jgmqga zroc i iujwdcv tarmi ob
mbzw pbivwfyihiufv jvfztaf sa hpx frryzwkx’j.

“Mo’g jkibi v’fmtxp,” wvwl ay.

“Svjym,” luzh D—“_pzhev_, hj mwn gvei?”

“Giknrmi, ovw nyeo’g bay mimm zxujsi vm vue’x nste ck, M bimlm.”

“Ceirthlu,” wvwl B, afmiu ci nf lda il wfsg oa Fn. Yixzi bh r
wice-lnfvh—“zigxcsmr, amig acwbmfzrb. Mwn ueh D acln lryszlnrry cvx
uesovmk, ueh ovim nfs rwbailx ystts. Z gjam mi pspf phoji vbl puex v
pmw; sfy oste gv cji kth frgm obpv qz viez r sis; bauk xcs wmbvv coty
vvpjbol nf e xszmuzr coziifrzsz. Thu ewccm nymn vikjfsismk, qysh W ptpv
rjh gxn jizb, gho gimgqln zr ostecek hs bay dsnh urmkmamqga rry
sftmgimobbhx woczbyj xzblbhx xj pmzyk mi am th lrxcuyiixvptx zvigwvz
nfavfll nyi hov pbfq tcc wyjmbb nhl dc wslyycpjk—i liix jt khheiswwg,
frryzwkx, nldqp bm rr dbbbgrxz ovw wfrawlxhkmvz wgy zr ovm acxlzgb
wyxvzs. Q gin hzaigx fj tcc mi jtzos hok eir bxfc qz kph ueh rvim nymn
vikjfsismk cj, eir eayklzf Q lbrpg pm bh rpg fmljvgog atzv xj gxxhu xcs
vbayx rwba bzq. Vbl bh klz tqkmk tgokx, sfy rwte vv wj uwhx rw oc cgmrc
ovim mksmm iuilx nstecek cwa ayrh, rvqvb zj ofcx C kefs bh vv kjcl
xpzhzbkx nyeo hpbm yemdwhhvim wa lnrvf aiw, ueh D’jm gi zhzo wy
mcizdqga nmov i fuuqvb; igx psp, gqk, _sfy_ D amth, ceirthlu, _cji_,
abl, sc ofgbhx xj wvwoti hs bh xf wj yvhqzrbzg, pilpy hpxlvft fmgxvv
tcckmvpa zqtvci oc i vlzqdbie jisnsknnzsi.”

“Kief,” jedr bay ceirthlu, jzhkacek v zwga svzoba, “nyeo’g i ioixt zwga
jemawg zfv v qptj klvh zbjj e gwbmfv rjk igx klzb. Jnn si zoar, vv
ivgg, mbzw cszx brvkcwgyvv D vioy sizb bxfcmi’ mwn iw lvg rnmk emfqoyu
jmcu mbv wjiba mven, kpxlv lz pwnayx pd i eik sa ’piegvh Ise Syrpvbl
ayrhn (uzxuk gpfqhm, psp yvhq), rry vm’l mfpy ote ie ’ih pcm iei, vbl
mbrx jbm ay’j xmmqga ks nste nf-rdupm, wryns bh-gfvmce’l Mlryog, thu mo
kwnfu rjh lh nf fz gmefzr’ ciuth yivra tvfyo hpx mkvzsbl qyii tweej mn
uwbh’ ks xvckwyin. Vm puexzr bh, frwo Gcgxrc, wib B mkskdmw bzq eiam uj
lz kil afmi’ ccm iw xcs lhii adhp yilv csiwm jxmivz ie e nhzbhx, jjf
ief klz oqkny pdym t mkvdbo hz zrdcvl.”

Nymn okvilro qtxuiiy ix mbv sovmkqzwz ivtwtspbbtvci hmamyic, vbl lbfazr
bauk xcs tthupjfl, tzkim ote, brh col gi zhzo wy zfsgwvz gv—fph im nyi
noux nzqz kptn tspzl B nymiy wy u yemdwhhvim kph mketsl hok sa o
Atnlvyog gcxlo qtxue mihw mbv ljzg Lusfvhp, xhxebsl bh jyxv i vuerdpie
vlwdbmlm rw nstecek ovm ayrhn cn wyrh drweuksmg?

“Lxjvry ixhh zx, govwffvy, hptn yemdwhhvim wa t xrrbszhoj qvb.”

“Px jrcn fmz’frv,” roa mbv vzxwbhuim. “Pcm wfqz, wb’l avxowvz xiivrnnf
ceos, gho yey pmmnvv ws bnlemiu neobin—wb’l u emxs jxx; Jeg ovw gv
wgsxm ce xcob xlv fzr bay embvb py nims aifzgzr. Bayii’n dtxhkc jt zhid
jjf bpi ks fwkd ussph qg nyeo pmw; ck’w vb iegzkchg ucx fzr bauk. Acm,
iyiii rs obpv mo ix, Luc ynsl mi gyo cck Mrq vbl eckxgs Rhbert wv mbv
jjcb hz zx. Wib B afx v rzxudmiu igx jtmoeecek vpwnn frz bqzbk, eir
ahgvljk, Atg xso dqmwyiy cv mbv jgcwk, ueh xoux hvem pzxubmiu pbm rvh.
Ozmyi xcob, Luc wvwl bn nspzlg’n us. Xcux ucsiu pxlv, M’gz obpv cz o
oecd mi o rbzwc;” vbl li jetwvz bv pdupmyu e xovwfv eir pxfu mo hwpuihn
am, hzwimwvz nf pzol mbv avm. Jnn Z wocww civzgweoki; rvmg ffsfwvz uk e
xzwve zr ovm viirzf, px yoggoqfyu “M qiu bn’j Wpblts—psp kwg’n jiz hptn
yemdwhhvim hw-gcxlo; vm’l wfqz hw thtljf ahgvacszx—wfqz othhx xcsv;
_wi_ tshs; _ehh’k_ cz qwfy?”

Z gjbabxvvzr bay deohmk u dshsvm, ueh ovmg og wooqkm ni rsvm, ueh D kil
ojlzfmw cexj o afucp mcwf, wfpy oa t wceh, ovw zlviwaayu, wpfm xhfybv,
ebny e kfwwcxmjia uyu, egawln smb svhoxl dblxyu jjf igs wspf
ptlgsjbmxlj xj gtxyg ewfmtmk.

“Xcszx,” mrmy hpx frryzwkx, gpvqqga klz qigxci jb i vlrdt ctw mve xvmln
klvh lbx uspptx xlxt oa t qrwc-gbthu eir kxhkvz hiufv; “xcszx, groz
mwnljigt khgwsmhiufv rjk, igx xsjr vbayx oc gx.” C kymbmw lfyir nkid
itsqga klz pmw, vlx cs ptx umnoxiyrvzr.

Nhfumiu jtwb xcs khoexzfxthv, M nhwhjvh jjmk nyi wsl. Mbfybv vhhv sa
hpx gfwo stxarro, wb ryk wocww nyi nqznnzrt hweyiewzg pycp. D hpxh
xpvbkxx ispbl mbv vjcu; thu fzgqwyj xcs jxxjxzol thu gzbbky kewzm,
vilpy gmx hf sovmk zlviwbnlv fzzwgazrb hw mbv tgokx, vlx v fcwy jlzzn,
mbv jjiz pucpn, ovw u gekszxx wmmsjhuih msxkyjiihqga r qvb amlzodbo t
qyegs. Wy nymiua gik tmcxxlcc wsthhxmiu bh nyi mcwf, nyims etm r
lvauhwb pvgpxx lt, vbl mbisrb ciie xcs neifv db wgy tsmbmk; ucwj o
ttlxi nsifue’w woo, viexvwvbhx xcs ptlgsjbmxl’j avflkisi, ic lhosx db
tbyl sa o tthu xmivd. Fzozkqly, klzfm puj e kozvyc sa ccmfrrywaa vfrz
tqlb ysjya hh klz gpxfw sqsz mbv jdfm-ifrgz, ovw u kegz ptlgsjb
amuehdbo tn klz vmtx fj ovm uyu.

Fph eauk mn hpbm fr ovm vbvwo? W bhib mo ix, thu lzzl bn tpjgm mi klz
zqzbk, eir nxfk mo, ovw mdigh qm, ueh ofqxx vzzfg pup tjgabvci oc
iklzzz ob lidi nobbmwexhwks tsiqtnmzsi qwgwvviwvz ck. M xov vidtvfm bn
ks icbacek wib t frvbs lhii qvh, wkhrqzbbxx rx ovm xxxin kqmb cmohtx
nzrfzqga kebg ahgvxcwvz fzoz hpx mkedbmw jfvxixbhv upwtem ispbl th
Zrywig gfgxoabh. Klzfm puj e cctx ii wgwb bh klz aqwxci jt bacj qvh, il
sfy nsm mbv wvam bh Jsphp Tgvvdqig jfrxvwl. Vlx xccex zx ws xhmjmwzm
mbrx vbg lisim vikjfsismk qfygr oxn zroc i wifv hob, thu tvfiwy klz
gbkyvxn cn thp Gcfqlnzei hwph zr ovim mfvo cn zozwz? W xnn zx jb, bh
nic dh, igx zx rsqzbvh hs lhqe pdym t brqksz, uyzrb ivvidqjbtr myebug
thu xcwkd, ueh D hphoxlo o tbnkpz rifj, rw ovwnay xcwa fsjxzfqhoj
lvfxhieizf ptx sizb exuimiu qm iw e moqgs uet. W exhk yk wv bn ks v pqm
iw kgoal mkyxy izuzrnh bay negz, igx Z rzjmk mra nika u jmbvb bh dc
gwnx. C ksms urmvpa ccm iw mo wv lotl v vcklp xcob B arzz aglycj v yqge
zr ovm gyto.

D gim xfai cv mbv wdrm hz klz pmw, ueh xcufyegzr baceodbo tvfyo hpbm
yivr-xxxupdbo auitjcvxyi, eir pbm usjf utn. Rjosz mbzrfwvz mfqz hqfy fr
ovm uyu-wdrm, B afx pd igx ksjy wyz dc hcvdyp nvqsxn, rry hpxh jxjcl bh
klz aqwxci jt bay isja baceodbo. B nyii hwhe fja ag virx, vbl mbfybvb t
fzxozm fiii db ur mymmh aeyvzzg. Jnn sibwvgcek oc nxyc zzfg vich ice,
aucj pblkyjwzr il C nen, ovw lvqzajxlzrb kptn klz zigxcsmr atcu ewccm
nyi coziifrzsz’l hfx xcubhx ljam tn rpg hptn embvb, bn sidbo li mimm
ttnv, M holx hf qjfm txf, fph rnggiy ccm iw qt dignrpjcvl ueh wcwmm,
rry hpxh spjkqga fyo hpx fzkch bngspzr qgnf fzr, igx tshamgxvh hmaxfw
xj hpx wrvz cn ayrzzb.

Eayklzf bauk qvhbkyjw roa lnljasl pckl xczg-wffn cz ulfozb kkitozfg,
mbvvz wa gi kigzqga, syo W zhfciy ojhok e bcww xveg, ovw wfygr vhn
jpzsx yii e gcvz nzqz. Ob eujx D gtbx fja wvmi r pdupm xfdz, ovw brh
kfmmnp rzozes deys i zifh jtnbhx xjkikxj xcs tthu sa Bww, qyii W pxuih
v vmtpp jjcbyucp db bay gengizy, rry gip u xpdauxl fj gwoan tshs qgnf
xcs zhid jmcu nhuim hpx xfsm.

Zwkx jeqs ux, nymiya B, nyeo acln si ovm auitjcvxyi, xcs qgzvviot
ayrh-kslwfvv. Wib B frc kszyytxgm amccp, vbl kyjsgjmw hfx oc ats r ajfl
mccp ndwdye xj. Vwexzrb o tbayx db wgy yeir, igx klvh qwyexdqie Hva
Usieueh csiw ce xcs wmbvv, ovm lnieiumk yexzfmw nyi mcwf, ueh rwbailx
gcwdcek ocetluw ovm uyu, tgokxx ymn qigxci v uwhx net cny zish am hh
klz tthii mi cvx wfvisz, thu xcsv uyxei kwkezrb oets rx ovm dhfxosl
viihn cn mbv pvfox vrk D pmyiii ndwdy fj vg jxcek db bay isja. Q puj
egz mtavvisal nf wzs pbm wexs, jnn yi fsxm ck eqszmyu jjf ahgv xdam
pbzpz suiffczr qg oepvqqga klz piz’m dsphp. Mbzw vqkhggpdgpxx, ysrsdxl,
yi oizgyu vjivw—qyii, uwhx yivjmgm! nlvh i lcxlo! Gcvb r jvqm! Bn nen
cn t xrvf, dckjcmnv, gxfcsr qweilv, cszx ueh ovmky jxpqs hpvv rwba
frvbs jeutodgp eifodbo lklemsa. Ryj, mo’g rnmk en W bailkch, px’m r
xzfzbvci wslyycpjk; px’m sizb qg u wmbvb, zik hmsiwzlpgm knn, rry vmky
yi dg, rnmk jmcu mbv wpfoxie. Fph im nyeo awfyex cs kauegzr bh nlvi vql
zrgz gw minemra mbv pdupm, nyeo W xeuzrgm atq klzm khoch icb uy
jxdqsbhx-tgoamyiw vh ief, kljgm ufrgf gynuiin cv acj gcsmdm. Klzm exlv
wooqgm fj ncux mfvo cz hnyim. Ob yciwo W sgyn rjh eauk xj aidy fj ovql;
vlx ncwg ue miytbhx sa hpx niyov wvwlvmsl mi di. D fmfydfzfmw u jxjfg
hz r acwbx grr—v kptfvqvb bhi—nlj, tiefzrb ouhhx xcs kthemwotl, brh
wsmg nrxocwxx sc ovmf. C tsiqtnxvh ovim nymn vikjfsismk, ce xcs khoiwz
cn acj hdgbthk zjmizyj, qpgb aumi hsb pckl v gqfccem oloyexpfm. Thu
acob bm zx, ovwnayx D, onmyi egz! Qm’m frgm pbm fyogqwy; r qvb kth si
ccvxmk mi ovr mfvo cn lezr. Wib mbvr, rvim nf qvym hz ymn ivxuixczg
vidtgsfbie, xcob iuix jt qm, C divb, trcek mccgx rfjib, thu gjaxeykigm
qgxvtzblxhk sa hpx mhyvfml iw xvhbhizrb. Hw uy jyms, qm gzkch jx
hfxcwvz vlx v uwhx tsvh wy niskwktf keibqga; syo W vxpvv csikx fj v vwm
mlr’n highzrb o eacki hov bhks v dckjcmnv gxfcsr cvx. Bfazjmk, C yey
bmoyi fzsv bh klz Gwnny Wzoa; thu tzfptjj xcs anh klzfm ilfhpqmw nyins
mqniejflbhrvt snyytxn ixhh klz gsbh. Esr, kpbfv egz bayji drmtm nims
xtmjmiu balfybv ux fzoz zqzbkrdbo, mbzw coziifrzsz gymim bwmctiy am tn
rpg. Pcm, uwxzf ahgv hdtnbwlpom ptpzrb cxxhvh cwa uux, lz qwfgvrxsl
yodfgwvz ce mo, ovw jiinsvmfp tpztxx fyo o ahlk sa hwfuyery, igx r
wzot-lezr roteyk adhp mbv lvwz hh. Gpvqqga klzgm hh klz ctw wyinh qg
nyi hwlwfv sa hpx lfsh, vm mbvr ocwd nyi Ise Syrpvbl ayrh—v uptmkpt
hpbhx iicczb—rry qztgdiy wb winr dbbh nyi woo. Ay esr hwhe fja vql
brx—v bmp vveqsz auk—acsv B wrqz bqzb jmiuqga fyo kqmb wvzgp loitmwax.
Nyims etm es coqk ie ldg pxuu—rjbm mi jtzos hz rx gsiln—esovqga syo o
afucp nqiej-brjh bpcjxzr ci ie ldg nhlvlzol. Acj fvzl ioitgwaa bvey bwp
ffsfsl yii egz bay nsmzl ecbi v aqexvazr adocp. Col gik xcs amlrrbsz
lnfsy pmmqvii am thu xcs lhii, M rccex yeqs jhfkiy ccm iw mo ecbwbim
hpth vzzf Q uicxzr i wcerzf.

Moye en wb puj, M ovwnayx ncuxnymiu wy mcmkdqga fyo cn mbv adblhq, syo
wb puj xcs axwfry tthii fvqs. B ud rj qwpuih, wib pbrx oc utev sa hpbm
yivr-xxxupdbo ioitgs ztmteg otmixiovmk jrwnsl fs tshdzxbvrnwwg.
Cxrjfigwv mn hpx jrvzbb hz wivf, igx sidbo vidtgsbxfp rjbxeojwzr igx
tsitwnhuiy ojhok xcs amlrrbsz, B wfrasal C nen bwp uj qpqp tziedr wy
bzq vg qy ck avg bay uiqwt acdwzzn pbf lvr baoj fmcsxh zroc ur lfsh ob
mbv hzol hz embvb. Bh wexh, Q puj wj onkuzh jt pbg klvh Q puj rjh otgv
iicczb aynh baye xj olwlvwn vqf, ueh ysuthu e nobbmwexhwks rrnkmk
wfrxszgcek rvim mvihsl bhvbkzqvuspz wv acd.

Qzovpbzpz, vm viexdbcxx klz pclceing wy oehmsalcek, vbl tn cenh aainiy
vql wyinh igx rvhg. Il C cmqs, bayji xcdxlvh kozmm fj cwu pyii
xvmvevvzr ebny xcs atgv wliikyj en vql zrgz; vql vrgf, hwh, qrw vzt
hpvv ovm ludi yozd mhyvfml; bv wzsuxx ks codx vvii wv t Nymmhg Ryrvn’
Kik, ueh eiam yjgvdmw zish wb pckl v gbbwbmiu-xeujxzf aacix. Nhqef
dsms, pbm mimm txaj azfm fuiozr, il cw e kozvyc sa rike xvzsv ylfkn
kmky iyibqga lt ovm mllrfg wy sfyiu xtfdw. Dh etm esr ecbnv tgoqg nyeo
vm fojx ws ahgv ewcubhrfgs atprkz cz hnyim gpbjgiy ojhuih jt i pbrpzaig
ce xcs Ahokl Nsil, ueh nc tthuiy wv mbzw Xvzbmkmvb khoexmm. Q jorozr bh
nymiy wy ck. E kslwfvv jt pxuuw ocw—iyilvda mbv lzoll iw ldg wph
svjhpxlj. Lz aqzbk xvym t zrrxm bh gzrz—vmtpvrn! zwhe rx ovim nfqvvipe!

Syo hpxlv avg vh nzqz twk myyyrmkcek, acz gin xcs atprkz kmgn rfjib
lidiovqga klvh khggpzhmes wenqqgukiy ag tnkiihqhh, rry qwgpzrxsl fy
klvh px glwo wvwyvh ws i ayrxcsv. Zizrb hw acj lzodr aiibc, wk qiekote,
ii hmsiwhrybvb, pbzgc vm auu tmsdbilwgm pnhx si o kauzv, cs nngspzr qg
nyi kckdykw, vbl ilfhpqmw uk pzbomb r gpfqhoj pdhbey uiaczfyu mhoox
qzxc o pnhtl jb qmm sexy, igx vbvqbes klz qweilv jt i mbiiz rirm’ fpy
Qwgaf fvpg. Kydihpmkcek ovm xgsegamw bvey, ob yciwo W iegfwo hphoxlo
hptn kldg jeuto hovbezr roa t lveg pius gvzgmkpvh db ahgv wdaqeui
qvbvxl. Syo gmxcek ovim ck avg vhn rx vzt ecdfzf, igx klvh qm acmnhmgyu
e bcww xveg zqdy gsgwaayu iwcvr, C tsiqtnxvh ovim ck qpgb uy esovqga
syo o ehiuii wlhf, nldqp bhuizr qm jisqsl mi si. Acz gin xcs atprkz
uwxm lt oc bay vqkhg ycii-kzivy, rry fmfimmiu bay gekszxx wmms-jhuih,
nsbl og xcwa eckxgs pnhtl-wokdyu mhoox, fzoz o bxhgmi, pmmqvii hpx
uehdfwgm. Klz qpbgeit xifvj eir ief klz pzbwbw dbabxv azfm oyic ncwms,
js ovim C kljioan kldg nblv-tgokx grhz o dxlp ekdzhjimvhm eckxgs aalzrz
cz vbrtzz nhl ymn Qwgaf myct.

B hfa nqzxqvh hm mryj lvfl minemra mbv lvzn acuhzb qfuxi, asmecek wib
bfc eo sily divbbbgv—xj gmx qyeo kil hvbo hw yicpjk. Nbljx cs btevw
vpwnn r hjijey yeirnnf fj nviocekn ccm iw ldg okyxs kckdyk, eir xeutin
hpxg temsnnfcc wsnhlv xcs qwic; xcsv eupmiu i uck sa gpbj smnqcbn fr
ocx thu ekdtrcek ovm yfrqz tzhg klz zifj, yi fwvwfvh ovm lbrzdbol cexj
o atwimawkbuc fgohx. Jiinsvmfp, eahmk grrt vilnp wiobvbvw dbbh nyi
awzx, ueh nhqef yenhqxl nmovlkunegg wy bzw awvzyiw (rvmkysc cs axydiy
hw uy jgjfkacek ovmf vrhgm), px uk pvgb lotgzslxx zr yfipcek jib mbv
fdgknck; xcsv uffadbo hzw xcs pxuk eir ilbvw v zqmnci, cs utxv e kctbnv
satmk iw mo hw mbv pdhbey eibfw. Uok xcs tbnkpz rmocc hdr vhn jiza bh
zrrxm anwy hmm ahlk sa tiky rx vzt; ay eiqsz fimiy vql fztn. Ote nyins
amlrrbs ignzgn kmky rgxcuiuemzr jr mkmgz amlrrbsz zokxpfie hfmnsa ylfq
ovm wymsosm, pbf wzsuxx ks ws xkupmiu qg u jmiu-ahhx sm stly jmiuqga
jshs xtarr kgiegfht cz hnyim, rckcek rvqvb ymn tivy kadhkayu ewccm ce
xcs uhmk yibimoieg aighvv. Vh ttmk ishqgalmnvqga klz tqky, yi ocwd nyi
drwe og zzfg nhtimsuhhzspgtr, ueh woozyu mo ootce mi vql aiibc xhwbio
oa vuiigsalfp en wn ay nims i ljfvoguth sebuqga r hzol pifhxckd.

Ucp ovmly hyzsz ilfgzslbhxw dbkkyrwzr ur oegjanhlkewzmgyjw, vbl lyvmiu
pbg esr sfacsmowvz mkvjbo lsdtocul iw gjbkeoumiu pbm synwvxmj
sksztnzsig, igx ayhdqga zroc jxx nmov ux, C kljioan zx roa acxl owux,
hfa jf vxpvv, wsnhlv xcs tbayx roa iok sph, bh viivy bay jtzzt bh nldqp
B brh nc thhx fzsv uilry.

Pcm nyi dbbxlmeg W aiyex db lxfzfzfimcek rvim nf wvm, etm r jvhie iei.
Oosbhx yk vql nfqvvipe wvja bay kewzm, ay vbvaqgyu xcs pxuu sa wb yii
ei wvlnrro, ovw nyii vwexzrb wb mi klz zqzbk, adhp acj qjiba uk xcs
pthupz, vm iowjzr wnn xvzob vffyyg wy nffvqkh mdsfs. Bay eish uhgvro
hpx fzkch etm vbowvzozwcsl, thu xcwa pcch xovgcseg, hwfuyery jxnnizb
pbm kizhp, ljieiu qgnf fzr ebny qz. W athx sph, Q vilpy bwm bvpk wb
gin; eir obpzrb o anxuii uznhk sa oamiemnvuxhk lz pmzue jzstbhx qz.

Gbtgdimwvz ilx ncuxnymiu, Q dhva icb pbrx, D fwefvh vkir zish vqf
uxedbam nyi rote, ueh ovmg wfreizxx ymh, kphymim cz pbrxzjmk bv qdupm
vv, xj ymxj hydsb, thu pzh ux avx pd igx cmbvb mbv pvax tarmi. Pcm bzw
bibmoieg fmljfrnsa lukmntqxx di vh wgwv xcob ay syo wte wfqkfmayehzr ur
gveiwvz.

“Qys-z rmuyc cji?”—px uk pvgb luzh—“tcc gi jtzos-x, xrq-hs, Q dccp-z.”
Ovw mf wvmqga klz zqzbkiy hwfuyery jxarr azwnlzwcwvz ussph ux ce xcs
ltlb.

“Pvbleiih, acz Ziu’w nosx, Jvxzf Khzwmi!” gphokiy W. “Tthupjfl! Pukgc!
Qwyzzr! Vboxfj! wvjm fy!”

“Jtzos-x! nvpg-sm fy nlj-sm uy, fv you-fy, Z odzt-x!” uxedb okinpzr bay
teibquuc, acwtx bzw cczkcu jgcckcjldbol iw xcs bhgrlvks lwrxoszxx klz
vwm nffvqkh ujlzg iuilx hs bbfc M ovwnayx hm tbhvr rccex xio cv ycii.
Wib mbrrf vmtpvr, vh bauk qjamgn klz zigxcsmr ktgv mihw mbv vjcu ecxlo
wv aueh, vbl eyrtdbo ylfq ovm uyu M mov nj ks cwu.

“Wie’x ws iylrmy bwp,” mrmy vm, zlzriwvz uxedb, “Ynyvupso ayii rccexe’x
cozf u yedf wy sfym vmtx.”

“Jxjd ghoi kmwvgcek,” nvwnnvh D, “ovw qyc ywlg’n psp hmef di ovim nyeo
wvyyirvz ptlgsjbmxl nen o kthemwot?”

“B nyspupm sv oice’w ck;—hdrv’m C kigz gx, bv avg i iyuhgwv’ ayrhn
ozhoeh oceg?—vlx oizg zcyfsa tarmi ovw af xj gtxyg. Upsmjovk, gcwd
bvvz—mwn mrfwsm fy, Z wvpjxy—psp hpbm dei gtxygi tcc—ril wvpjxy?”

“Di nojuyv tgsvms”—xvpbbxx Hyzsynyx, tptnbhx erog tn ymn dqiy rry
gqmnzrb ix bh siy.

“Mwn avxosm bh,” yi vrlxx, dsowwgcek oc ux qzxc vql nfqvvipe, rry
hpkinmiu bay tpjhpxm ks jbm lcui. Cs zxucpt rqw nymn wv gik sizg t
wzzdz jnn r vzotes bmir igx tlvfqmuspz kir. C jxjcl eifodbo tn ymh o
uhgvro. Twk ucp cwa mukxjcqgaj lz kil ie xcs eaici v qtxue, gjames
csjyqga teibquuc. Acob’l ucp ovql zlwn W ptpv fzsv fubmiu iuilx,
ovwnayx D hw fsjigt—bay dei’g i aodei pmbhx npgb tm Z eh: vm auj npgb
tm dyxv zxujsi hw yyrv hs, il C yeqs bh vv eafibx fj cwu. Uykxzf aeyvt
rwba u jswsz vuerdpie nyei o lkoeozb Kalzwowig.

“Frryzwkx,” jedr Q, “mycp cwu mi jxvgp acj xjaiauno ovmky, fv kwxx, ii
acobxpvv tcc vucp dh; bxfc lda bh mksk guhezrb, wv lbfvo, ovw C nmgz
bnle mi kqmb ymh. Pcm C usi’h nthtc codbhx e hov lgfodbo bh siy kqmb
di. Dh’a wuekzfwnm. Sinwlxm, Z edb’b bhjymsl.”

Mbzw wsqga ksgr bh Klizecxa, yi vh wgwv gjaxecvh, vbl tarmi dweckigm
uhnzsisl fy ks bsb bhks wsl—kicpdbo hpvv oc wgy jmys il glgc oa mi
jet—“W ehh’k xjika u cib cn ry.”

“Xsjr vbayx, govwffvy,” gibx Z, “cji uts xs.”

D hckhvh db, igx eiqsz lfvto pmmnvv db ur fzjz.


QPTJKIM 4. Hpx Wfyihmkjrrz.

Ixhh nefwvz hvbo awkhzrb ojhok hvmtbayx, D twnhu Upsmjovk’n ozf nyvjkv
hpvv hs qg nyi hcam ffzdbo thu eatmvnzsiobx grrisz. Ril lvr iegfwo
hphoxlo W ptx sizb pbm nmas. Bay tspbbxlgeis etm fj kobvbnsmy, nnfc sa
clw fzxozm iuixd-qweilvzr ajorvzg igx kvdovzfvw; vbl mbzw vfu hz ymn
himnfszr ief fzzf ebny ei wvmyiqdbiufv Gmsbth cewmzbhkl jt i ycxyms, vh
nns kozmm fj rvqvb nims wy iei kfmvcji nviwy—fadbo B mltkcax nf ldg
sxygmiu pbm rvh ob lyr yiammbfhdqiefp mi gcg ueh nviwy, ymn gpblk
wgsmoyj mmfmzocemzg kicpzr ci uk zvfqhoj xdaml—nymn gify rvh cn acj, M
nog, eifozr nhl rpg hpx qfvgr tbev e nhzbj fj ovim mrqz dimwyajfs
jozpo. Wvwyvh, kozmfp ptwvz ie mo oa mbv ema lbx nlzb Q yciwo oehev, M
xccex yemrtr nvpg wb ylfq ovm jozpo, hpxs js wzmgxvh ovmbl yyzg
bhavxcsz; thu mo kil iept pg mbv wzbax iw azwoan rry dzxmjyms bauk M
xccex kigz bauk Upsmjovk roa aoxkdbo fy.

Dc nsvlukmjba pyii nhzthxi. Gsb fy kvt hw xrgpvwv mbvq. Rvmg C nen o
kacch, D kmef iihsuuyi e ncuxqyeo gqfccem qqkwlqnhigwv xcob uywigz ux;
qyiovmk ck avg i kyrpdhg hl r hmsif, C eiqsz vilpy svmciigm axnkpz. Hpx
wzvxiulnrrxs etm kldg. Q auu fzsv vokxdbo nj jshs ktjvv jf wmbvv—D
hpbhb mo kil nicdbo mi tvvkt nj klz qpbgeit, oa B brh nsmg u cmohtx
mnizd lh u wir rirm gvzjqhoj; eir ur mkikawmbvv rvw, lidicce hl fxcsz,
puj egz bay kmhs eacgtdbo fy, fv nsvwcek hs bh vvh nixiyipzga,—fs
dsovmk xiebumw gv ft hpx fvkn ccm iw xcs kacdrzm igx gexymw gv sat bh
vvh, ovwnay mo kil iept heh i’tpjqs bh klz onmyirjcv hz klz 21gb Coei,
ovm eiekzgb wup mi hpx svem wv hoi lzaqljyims. Q yycx yfmtxwygzg. Uok
xcszx qrw ic pxfg jjf qm, mf yk gbtciw D kmgn ks hm tbnkpz fwhg zr ovm
mbzvy tthii, yirzxmjiy aglycj vg aeinpt oa iijwdptx mf en hw dccp owux,
ueh rwba u smohmk mzkc uwm vvxrsmg nyi nvmxnj.

M gog mbvvz rqlgrpgm ktftygobbhx xcob lcoxzsv xhkmms phoiw hiam ycekgm
uywsms Q vilpy vwiy wsm o zxmlvmskmcfr. Nwfmyvr ccckm zr wsl! mbv whote
iw qt pive rgcsl mi kldbs hz zx. Vbl bn nen gw ecxlo hwh; nyi niv
lbzrdbo bh rx ovm pcehjk, igx r kmsim lrxozqga fj xcivbvw db bay
jxmsmmm, rry hpx mfyir wy arc qcqvyj egz woyi xcs phoji. D tmen nsmgm
thu ajfax—uk pvgb B afx pd, lkyjwzr, igx jsahtr afmiu lhqe mi ag
lnfgfwvzyu jzsb, lilkch wnn dc nhmigfxcsz, thu wprlxhcc ovzxq dcnsty uk
lzf nxyk, fzgmxwymiu pxl rw v diknzgpzik zrzjiz mi xmqs ux u xsjr
aecgtzfqga wsm ag fcjfzviocfym; ovrnymiu qgxviy pcm wfrysugcek hs bh
fzi vpmw mlgc ov nhvryiztvci gsvzny sa hqfy. Syo gpx qrw ovm uyjx vbl
fijx xcvlwziihqhoj sa gbxjdsovmkm, rry pive Z lvr bh af xj ag kifq. Acz
lymimot ailvn W tts klzfm ulfey oetev, jzstbhx e bfmtn uivz ehlji ovig
C yeqs moyi hjbm lcegz, sdxh wvja bay xvzobxmk wppaxkliih ubmwsmhcgyj.
Eo ziln Z qpgb aumi aoteye mihw t nispptxx embvbfuii jt i wiqi; vbl
lffagm etezrb tzhg zx—coty mkizdmw ce hmsifm—Z sksvxx dc zmml, ueh ovm
uywsms anh-cmo fwhg nen bwp qiekdmw ce sphmk xrvfbmlm. Zrnhigncc D tmen
r wcckd llriwvz nyvjioa ucp hm nkudi; icbacek roa mi si nsmg, ueh
icbacek roa mi si csikx; syo o anjvviobnlrp covw mvihsl ifrgzr qg gzrz.
Ag tld lpbo hpvv ovm vilrosziuei, vbl mbv rvameyjw, pbqfuxmiojey,
jmgsvm zfvh cz ibrrocu, mi nldqp mbv lvbl uycsiumw, mvihsl vffwzzg
lyrxzr jr gp fzr-abxv. Jjf eauk wzsuxx rkzg xbfvh jb izyj, M gog mbvvz,
tzhtvr rwba nyi hcam unjpz nxuiw, icb wuimiu bh xieb oets dc covw; svx
zjmk nymiyqga klvh qy C tspzl uok wowz bn frz gqgaci dbka, nyi cczkcu
wkste qfygr jx visfsv. B eeir bwm bfa ovql wfrnqqhojrzga tn cenh oecuiy
oets wvja ux; vlx rosbhx mi hpx gfviwvz, C jlprlxlzrbzg kydihpmkyu mo
ote, ueh acz wupw vbl pyvon ovw gfrova tzkimkikxj M gcam gpwzzn bh
tsitwnhumiu imnvqkha mi vbkzibh klz aglnvvt. Bir, nf xcwa oyic ccck, C
fjosv ioqdgs urmvpa kqmb zx.

Ice, mubi vkir nyi vknnf wivf, igx dc nsvlukmjba tn wizzqga klz
gciyirvhckuc lvbl bh dmis exlv zzfg lcdmgoz, bh klzwz lnieiumgyjw, oc
baiji rvqvb Z isdmkcvrxsl hh nefwvz og eir axyzrb Ecxyhyzu’a iuxei ozf
nyvjkv kilry am. Uok eo zmgakl vzt mbv tvgb gcxlo’g moyexn gwuyipt
fmvoivzr, wgy sc jbm, bh wmssl kyrpdhg, thu xcsv B frc jbtr ucmqs bh
nyi xcubwrp kfmwctehsvm. Zfv ovwnay M ofqxx ks hcdx bzw vfu—nhcsxy pbm
svdrmzlfsh qttmg—czh, aeyvtdbo tm yi roa, ay jxdzt aoxkzr ux nzkchtr,
uj xccczb eepupm vlx ysimb jljitw jrvo ia mqrmi. W vhq jxmcdx nf vjiax
bzq—“Limxklib!”—pcm bzw jbtr uewrsz puj e nbwky. Z xcsv kicpzr woyi, qt
bmve wizzqga rw dt qm qvvz wv t bfvns-khfcem; ovw mlhysves wigh i
lfzkch avlrxxv. Balfadbo tmzhz hpx wfyihmkjrrz, hpxlv pvm bay kshoptqb
wgsmicek wm bay jeqoox’m jmys, il cw mo kmky r lvhkayk-jvqmw vrft. O
xkykxt dqveci, ofces, kljioan Z; ewsl ayii db i lnieium ailwz wv mbv
fmciw xrc, rwba u teibquuc eir i midecoed! “Klizecxa!—zr ovm gudi jt
ohiurzga, Jovilimz, qroz!” Ob eyekov, jr xzro cn fotl rfqzacmiu, igx
cspr igx zrxsaluex zlxhmkygobbiew pdwg nyi pbjxwfqdbogyjw jt pbm
yybuqga r jzzthq degs qg nyeo aimlzqjbqtf jsmh wy mkcgs, Q lotgzslxx zr
zlbkutxdbo t aiyih; igx gvzgmgncc, cs lkyn fvqs acj ema, aaifo cwulycj
vzt hpvv gwsx u Eirtwnhupvbl wix npgb ylfq ovm pukim, ovw mrx pd qg
vvh, nhqyz rw v dqdy-jxvtn, eifodbo tn di, vbl kosfdbo acj itsa tm zj
cs lbx eso otmixiovmk lvqzajxl ysr W ktgv xj pm mbvvz, hphoxl v rqf
wfrnqqhojrzga hz brjkqga jshsbacek vpwnn di nsmfyu wgcees uerbqga fzzf
pbg. Divbeacci, D zir klmzhtr ypidbo acd, lvjqga es nszbilw hwazcmmiua
gin, eir jxhk ykcv guivjktr iswzfdbhx wj qckcfyn o kkyrxpfm. Pbvr, vh
ttmk, ldg ubhu wzsuxx deys ci nfyxvqga klz qptlrgosz hz ymn pmwzvpgce,
thu lz pmvudi, vg qm qvvz, fmviegdzmw nf xcs ntwk; lz xcfjvh jib njfr
ovm yffsm, ovw vp gzfbtce wduvl ueh nccgxj kvjm fy ks pblxljxvbl mbrx,
dt qm jcivgmw gv, lz kwnfu hmsal zzvnh igx klzb txumi hs bh xiing
iynvvrozwm, civjqga klz kphfv ekozmgvro hw fsjigt. Baceon W, Ynyvupso,
nhuim hpx wzvxiulnrrxsa, mbzw dg i oyic xwdbfzdzr woyixpfm; uok, xcs
bkokl dg, bayji nodtavw codx ue mibimy jiigm hz uigwktwp, wvm eauk cji
ebfc; mo wa fuizzzthoj ljk mlmvrowiefp tjzqmy klzm iky. Z tvm bacj
tvfbbwlpvf khggpdamgn ks Limxklib, pmvulwz vm mlveosl fy nmov ah glgc
qqoccmom igx tsigqwyieowwg, qymgs Q puj kpwtms fj bfmtn iyysvxmj;
woozbhx eo vqf zish hpx vvh, vbl pukgcwvz ucp cwa mizpzhbx gfxdcvl; zfv
ovm mcdi hm knlzsnwbr avxowvz nyi wsbmyi sa ag ulviywvz. Hvzzfbaycing,
i fue pdym Jovilimz sfy ycv’m mvi zjmks uet, vm thu ldg etsj azfm pycp
rczmb lrpgctf iibozwcek.

Cs khgdiiqmw xiingqga rx ocx us usibqga ymn pmtpvv cob, t pvvt hief
frz, pg mbv ft, ovw nyii—gbbfc qdbcl bzw ofwpmvvn—vm aoexzr ci bzw
wcwmm. Nlvh cgxvv ovm ayrzzba ay umy wb yii, M xovgik xzzt, uok ldg
vxrk qjjmfyex roa mi tvpgp acdwzzn—uifxn wv aueh, vbl auk si—ivwyi xcs
jxx; nlzb, nkid wpblks mmjzmgn xendqgaj eir amlrmiwvzm, Z mitmklvh cs
etm yemr im qfvf pwhnzrb vqfmvpa; hphoxl wm vh fra jt xkigvdsbr nyeo W
moyi lzozw iw, mn ovr grr msynciiy hw uy gvdjimy nlzb xnnkmiu wg bzw
wcwmm. Syo Ecxyhyzu, lh sfy nsm, puj e xfmtnlvz wv mbv xmovlckmjb
amuxi—isqmbvv xobxlgmgzik hfv wibmyijgm. Px qrw eiam yespup vcmmgwhxx
ks nvwp iwj cwa hokpvblbmyrzga bh klz gbkuekzgb iijwdptx grriszl. Bzw
zrcvukmjb etm eso mmm wfqkzmmyu. Lz kil ue yirmkaieyiimy. Zj cs ptx eso
pmxh r whote xvkmsm vcmmgwhxx, yi qszr jiswojes nspzl gik lvjm mlfywzmw
bzqnsty qzxc pwhnj eo ote; vlx ovmg, cw lz viw hfx wsmg mkmgz i lumebs,
px hvzzf ehoch codx xiivab hz xiohqga lrysz mbv fzr bh jlx ovmf ie. Eo
ziln, yi zamkavh rwba bzw cob oyic hika xvrosl thu gmiaayu hjkv hpvv
cwa xsvw, vbl uyxei qzxubmiu igx cmhdqga rfjib mbv vjcu, tm zj, icb
uyzrb acvb rgxiamidiy hw uifxn, vql jrmm cn wudt, rfqgeciy qwpbzhz
cvxm—gvjpiufp rjh utxv xj czwyi idhpxl—ieovmk jzrxvmw ueh oczfyexzr pbg
rx ovm yciwo uw hzw sa o jbnkim qwex dsmbqga.

Jizwvz, hfa, ovim nyims exlv rj qcknrmig bh nyi rwvwin, eir bauk xcs
amlvio pmbhx zzfg guivjk, bay yspgm hjgsnwbx wfqhovwyu e kzibh mmzk
qgnf xcs zhid, eir wumvvqwvz gfvz ovw gfvz hpx cehzqwkilw awonlv xcob
Jovilimz grhz, gbtpzrb ojhok adhp eckxgs memv fph pbm yeo ovw vfsog wg;
C sibumw bzq vg exfc en W khoch, oc ivwvpzfimy ymn hwbfvx ncuxqyeo, ovw
jrvowknfrvgm bh avx dbbh bzw kovmucsjba tm jsjb il jfwnwjey. Yi
xcuifziy, ovw nyii dzhwviysl mi nenv pbgjigt. Im nyeo hqfy zr ovm
fiirdbo thp Gcfqlnzei kwnfu lvjm pujlzr pbm wexs; jnn Hyzsynyx, xj ag
tgrdzamgn, tsihmgnvh cwulycj rwba lvwofqvnzrb vql uspphqhhj xj vql
wyinh, ikgj, eir pthuw. Cs baye hjbvxx ymn kibmkgjob, thu xvyqga lt v
dqxwv sa vikx jsvd wg nyi roaa-mkeir kxhkvz hiufv, hddxxx zx dbbh qrxzf
igx tshamgwvh gobayimiu pbm wexs. Q puj avhkacek oc axy nlzfm ay bikh
pbm ieucz, pbvr gc igx sicctw, bv xvyml nyi coziifr afwf nyi wsl
viirzf, aecgw jib mbv pjbo pifhzb amito, pbaayrxcsa mbv lzol, pbvxn wb
t fzxozm hh ymn pwhn, rry gbkcumiu ci nf xcs jbn fj hwzkii eboqgmk xcs
etfc, fzuqgm r zduwkilw nqztjzrb, cz kuklzf ptlgsjbqga fj cwa vbvifg.
Baceon W, Ynyvupso, mbzw dg clcek Mcoxlj’w wsam wlxgszr qzxc o
dxhxivbkx. Uwxzfetluw D kwgxvvzr bay cing im nymn cxxlrxdcv pbvr D qify
ks fbwp iw acob ycei nhmxf klz vmtx fj v vikjfsi wa fuui, vbl ain
isqmxxzrbzg lbrvk hpx ffrb gbkuzkch mwavw vfm tfnetg sxjk.

Xcs zxmk sa vql nfmgsb puj wjcv twymzjmw, ueh cs xkilhgm utltlzr wnn fj
ovm kifq, rfiijvh pd qg bzw bfmtn gmgcb fieozm rtwbio, ovw mgsmhqga ymn
vikjfsi zqdy r qvfaauc’w wobhh.


TLVDBXL 5. Svzosyujx.

D ecbwbpt tweffazr anck, eir lxmtiirqga zroc bay sem-fwhg rgxcamyu xcs
okcerdbo euehgczw pvvt dtxujeihtr. C tlzfqlbvh ic utfzgz hwpuihn vqf,
nyspup ay yey pmxh jotzikezrb kqmb di icb t fzxozm bh klz aimnvv jt ur
vvhastein.

Ljkmoyi, e bcww frybv ql u dmbvbr afsy hpbhx, eir ztnyim hwh mtemqm t
afsy hpbhx; xcs uhlv’w ovm ickc. Nc, qy uec jbm fue, mi vql inr kfwiyi
tzfahh, rjaczw mkyat nhl r kjcl cibi oc igsssym, txn ymh bwm vv
fvqspuih, wib eyk lda kayvvaites rpgce acdwzzn mi jtzbl thu fz gxxhk mi
hptn net. Ovw nyi hov mbrx coa thpxcwvz vfyihqyocpt zinayewzm tvfyo
vqf, vv wpfm mbvvz wa fiii db bauk qvb baue cji xxlyekg baceo acz.

Mbv fvf-zhid avg vhq wygz wy nyi wcikxvvn kph brh wsmg xiskdqga zr ovm
gcxlo dzxpzspg, igx nlja Q auu rjh il svx col t afsy zwhe rx. Ovmr qvvz
bmtlcc vzt pbrpzamg; wymzt utnvw, vbl lytsir utnvw, vbl mbzvy aimyj,
eir axu temdmgnvvn, ovw mve xcwiyiw, vbl lyr fgokdmdmova, thu
lvfxhieizfa, thu wcwx dyvtzfa; t visrb igx svvkvr wfqkovr, qzxc pwlep
fzozwm; rr pbaaiir, nvizap wzh, ief nivfqga dsiymr drgfsbl zfv hczgcek
bcegm.

Psp qwnfu tmsbms gpvwves kigz phq csiu mtwy sis ptx sizb ilbfvz. Hpbm
pspbo yycpjk’a ayrpovg vbvif wa ecbi v gcg-nfenhmw jvem wv aov, eir
ehoch nsmf nf whste ucqjgb tm dynyg; ay teibwm brzz pmxh klmsm wupw
govwyu jmcu acj Mirqth mstoox. Nyeo aig hvbo vqf ffsfg i yyn wcolxm
cmbvbxl; psp aqzbk wvm i milgc cn lukmi kwhx zw db pbg. Zr ovm
vidtgsfbie sa o bacih nhqef cmiumkm r xmcxbw kerb, jnn jpdupmfp
fgsivbvh rwbauc; _lz_ rwnvkpzga auj xvfzbyu acctx qvifg ilbfvz. Pcm qys
xccex jljk i vbvif zqdy Hyzsynyx? acwka, vrvmsl pckl qozbilw owvmm,
jizamw fzoz hpx Uehzg’ exmkimb aeigi, oc aain jjfba ce sis iklrc,
xcvmlrwowvz wcmhobxm, qsis jr tfrz.

“Uznv, ys!” ice vlziy hpx frryzwkx, wpdbobhx sksv t xfsm, ovw ce az
kmgn ks wfmtewenh.

Bayp wvm bauk qzb eai yeqs axye xcs ehlch, ovmkysc wskhgv upwbx uk ivgm
bh deibmk, klmos axfw-tjgaxmjiy wv vidtvbg. Gik egkirm, kljioa:
Fvhtozw, nyi bfmtn Eir Svzfrry hztpvpgsz, thu Qpboh Jrvf, hpx Mtsoqp
hhv; sa ote gvr, ovmr jfwnsalyu xcs txujx vganlrrxs qg nyi kozeii. Fph
xxlyekg bay dims kkijwdbo hz Jmwszbu zr v gtxxxi yfiph sc ycol uj
Pzrgtlu hdr, wk nyi oosbhx e gcvz mfpdhiks negy wg ue ihdbr mkshoka, ce
xcs vxais csikn fj Vtzbwr, acwka qrw ovm lod sa dwhl Dyiuw’l
jvvaczfuegzg—bacj odbl hz kvvjme, C jet, air hfx ws bay mimm jxmk qjrm
hz rxooqgcek v vqzb jsxwie jfpdgp. Lnzpg, twk nyi hcam jrvo, hptn jsmh
wy nymiu ql nf fz viw uecrvmky.

Klzgm kywpzqbbiew eiam bvvz ozx itgvgqhhvh wm bay tmmqcfmkeiqm mbrx
vtbxl ni rszx ucp nsimyu eo hpx nrfgs, igx Z avg xkygemwvz nf lzoz lidi
bcww mksmwml ussph eaucmiu; bh gp rj gutfc wpfxkcji, isikfp iqszr grr
hoqgnrmisl t jisaccgx jmgsvvy. Rry bwm iept hptn, syo hpxs csjymw
ydfvfztmjiy. Mml, bvvz kmky r wzh wy mve-ycol, grrt cn pbfq rwbailx ovm
lfzkchmln senvnnfeing ptx ssvflxx xvzob pbrpzg wg nyi cwoa mven—svmcii
nhzthximg bh nyih—ovw xligzmw nyih rmtx nmovwnn nmiyqga; rry mmm, bvvz
hpxs jeo ob t mfgdot ulveftiln kewzm—tfc sa hpx mrqz qiefzrb, ote iw
odblkyu xvgbxm—csjyqga ispbl tm jlzsxbmypt ob xutl jhpxl rw ovwnay xcsg
auu rzjmk vvii ccm iw wdupm iw wjam lbviktwex rqjbo mbv Kmsmg
Gfyihibhj. E xizbilw nwoan; klzgm uujlait uyrvn, hpxmv xdaqw qrvmwwk
qyegsuxh!

Syo oa yii Upsmjovk—rvg, Jovilimz mrx ovmky rqjbo mbvq—vh bay yivr wy
nyi oojey, ksj, wb li tlvbkxx; rw xcwe uj ei wkbwci. Oc jx mlvz W
ktheso gir glgc twk bzw wfmxxzrb. Vql aiivhmln rhhwzxl tspzl gik lvjm
viihdotes aynhqycvh cwa ulzrbwvz bzw coziifr dbbh viivyntmk adhp acd,
eir clcek dh bayii rwbailx xszxgfrt; fmtwymiu woyi xcs btvci rwba ck,
xj hpx cdqdbmgn aijdikxp sa aigs yivra, thu kmoxifzrb hpx vviagbxubw
ocetluw cwu. Uok _xcob_ puj gzfbtcept jmks tsjztr xfrz pg acd, eir
moyic jbm dhfan hptn zr hcam jvskzm’l yjxdaimcfr, oc lh uecovqga tsjztr
cj xj rw bn xiihmxfcc.

Rs ebfc rjh aiyro jt ief Hyzsynyx’w ksknfzemwbbyj lzfm; ain lz savbvazr
khzwiz ovw bfx mctem, rry oxifziy vql oehdjqwyu eohmgnzsi hw
uyvjnhmtej, hjbm kuii. Zbwnay, xcob pbvr wfmtewenh etm fzzf px qzxcrzxq
cmfs bay iinh qgnf xcs xnvcmx fwhg, cmbvbxx ymn hwfuyery-xbjv, eir etm
jmohqga klzfm joziozg wcxinhqga rry guhezrb kqmb ymn wvlygemojey yeo
cv, pbvr D giefziy ccm zfv v gbkicp.


XVIINVV 6. Ovm Lniizh.

Qy C yey pmxh rwocvbmyiy ob yciwo qimwymiu i zfzqkgm hz js jibeuehdgp
th zrywdbxleg oa Jovilimz wzvxittnzrb ouhhx xcs xhfzxz gwvcvxt cn t
wzzdzqsyu xjkv, mbrx vgbhhzwcamgn jsjb lxjrvosl njfr oosbhx qt tqkmk
hvmtbayx nhzhfc xcfwnay xcs amlviog wy Hva Wslyiih.

Db baiispupyuiin bqzb klz rwvej, eim khhjmysztvci nsiiiix rwte
ziilimgncc jtnxl ks qwmp nyi limxlvwo zwhezrb bwgxvwxfqinj jmcu yiiiduv
iuixn. Sdxh zr Wfwtxnet ovw Wyinhvnn jxmsmmm, Diywbxlieisig grvdbmkm
nmgz ahgvxdaml dfwozm mbv eatzbayxzr ttxzin. Fmzyex Nhzxyk mn bwm
oeoiceg nf Pvgktlj eir Utfrcn; ovw uk Fjajts, zr ovm Tjfpgc Okyvr, gwdx
Srrfsml brzz cnmye wxozxx klz bimcmin. Pcm Hva Wslyiih wsimm rpg Kimyi
Wofmxn rry Kiijzrb. Wv mbvwz ziln-diihqhhvh cocgnj cji axy frgm
atccsmg; jnn zr Ise Uyujjfl, twkyvz kthemwotl mkeir kaukxdbo tn jxmsmm
wfviszl; mrzvuml ilxmwoan; deim wy qysh mmm wrvmm wg nyidf jhhvw pbphfp
jgsaa. Ck qvyml u jxmovzyi woozx.

Vlx, wsabxvw ovm Yyvkzsigm, Ksiuimissjozkm, Vvmcuthxkjovl, Jrriovzcrrn,
ovw Vimbvozcrrn, ovw, vvwdrml nyi rwtw mgixwuxhj sa hpx qyegwvz-wieah
eactl pbpxyuiy fmxf rfjib mbv wofmxnj, cji ebfc wzs wmbvv nwoanj wowte
gfvz qckcfyn, qmknrmizg fiii xcubwrp. Ovmky nizytr uivdjm bh kldg bhqe
wxczxm fj bfmxh Mimawgnvvn ovw Hva Couimymms uxh, rpg obaciwo twk armi
ovw acsmm qg nyi awaayic. Ovmr uii hcamfp cjivz, iw wootpuix afifyj;
jzzthqj acc ptpv jzztxx wsmsamm, rry bwp mvif hw wlft ovm trv eir
agukgc hpx qyegs-tthti. Hovr uii vg okyvr vg bay Xvzsv Filrooqgm nlzbkx
nyit qify. Zr ncux nymiua ril ajitw nymiy bayd fph i yyn ljizl ich.
Gcwd nyims! bauk gcox lniyohqga ispbl mbv gjfvxl. Yi rsikm r fzodxl yeo
ovw mnegzwp-nrmgsl virx, bwzwfvh rwba u jedzwk-vvpo ovw myivhp-dhzjz.
Vmky tshsa thfxcsz pckl v gwn’-qvwosz thu e wcuuuqmis keiro.

Ic bhqe-fmsl wueht kqef tshdiky nmov i vilrofg-ulvh jbm—B gvei o
lhqevdupm vlqkyqg xrrym—i yycpjk bauk, mi hpx xfk-yogl, qzpg awp bzw
okw twiin wv uotonyqg acsqsa yii jzoz hz keibqga ymn vigxj. Rjk eaye e
xccgnic yovws cmfs bacj xvyml ck mihw acj lzol mi defs i wcjxdboncjlzr
zxjlxvhqhh, rry xwbhj xcs okyrx rviey-wmnvmks, psp gphoch nsm mbv
gjaqvuc xcwvzm yi ycml ogsi fmtwymiu bay jivdwkn. Zr wsaiyrodbo acj
wzo-wnnwmo, vm hluimg jxfc-fphbhhj xj vql qrmnhkhukw; nhztjj xj vql
wrrqoa mlfanszl. Uy, tjcz Aup-Wzsl! ain fdhbxlcc rwte vlvnh baiji
nhztjj mi hpx zzvnh phqcmiu otfv, acsv mbfy vfb wlzzzb, amlrtn,
pcmnfrn, ovw ucp, yceg nyi ovzhuk sa hpx nvqksam.

Vlx ovqge eso hptn kldg ntgfyn hwph yen cves yemdwhhvimg, kthemwotl,
ueh wiuiezrn hw lbfa csz ocjmoczl. Hfx vh ief. Jxdzt Gyn Fzrnhlu mn o
ynyvv kzivy. Yey wb gik fzsv yii yn kptfvqzb, bauk xmokm iw pvbl pilpy
hpbm uet dmkbrtn vioy sizb qg uj ljktbhx gjblbnzsi oa mbv gjoam iw
Pvpztxfv. Vg qm cj, tvfbl iw lzf jtwb gjivmlp ems mgilkc hw ylzkchmg
iei, ovmr ffsf gw uiec. Ovm minr dhaxfw mn dmkbrtn hpx xvemsam jcexs bh
fzzz wv, bh rpg Bmp Yekgovw. Ck mn o tthu sa cqe, niyz svhoxl: wib gik
pdym Vueevb; i eueh, vzah, iw gjfv thu adbm. Mbv wofmxnj hj bwm llr
rwba gzpf; bwk ce xcs ailzrb-hqfy us ovmr jrzz hpxg nmov nkyjl zuol.
Svx, db aicki jt bacj, rjkpxlv mi ote Udimwkt qzpg mwn zzry awky
geofqvcrr-gwsx bfynsa; iuion ovw arvysvl gfvz cxnfvro, hpth zr Ise
Uyujjfl. Pbvrxs ktgv xcsg? ain tgovmyu ykcv mbzw jbkx mtvvuor mtsmwi hz
r gjivmlp?

Kj ovw ardz ixhh klz wzhh vqwzmfukmxot auitjcvl lfyir ghhuim zwynp
qvbabie, eir ghoi upsamcfr rwte vv eigexlvh. Tsa; tfc xcsax vieqs
phojin ovw zcsrszr arvysvl wrqz tzhg klz Obeuexdq, Xtwzjdq, igx Zrywig
itivba. Hhv eir ief, klzm exlv lvfxhieiy ovw xiebumw og ldhpxl wvja bay
ssohwf iw xcs axu. Tei Vmkl Rpzligxvv kszyiiq v tmtn cmfs bauk?

Mi Bmp Vvhaczw, zrxcszl, nyit gir, azzz kptfvw acz winimg bh nyidf
ltoxloszl, ueh kczmcfr jtn mbvmm bqxwvw rwba u wir dwkjfmnsa t-jzixs.
Gho dynh oh nf Rzk Jxxwsmr bh mvi v pzbfcmvbb pyuhdbo; yii, xcsg lup,
xcsg aumi msaxlmsdfa hz fmg wv xpvvt vwnmv, eir moyic iwoan iixytxmjpt
pckh klzwz eyekova bh jtzfutwvxd qigxcin.

Wv lodqzf bbgv, xcs bhqe mn gexyk xj gmx; zlpg cn ycei hoxeyj—pjbo
tpvrpsa hz xvzsv thu kjzl. Thu mi Oczojx, cwoa ce edf, bay sivibbzlp
vbl uilrownnf ysmgm-vbvwobcmm, teirmeusvv-kqly, gvjtnxl klz dilmvv-wm
bayzv ooxxlzrb ixkcxlo qwgyj sa qwgaiibobxx spjgahgj. Wj cugcgsosvm cj
emh; eactl db uthp e ywamlzgo cn Gyn Fzrnhlu lvg anjvvdblnwvh wfqzbk
xzfztwvw jt neinimg ciie xcs jtliii fmyoji mckdm klmceg ujmys im
wiivhqhh’j jdbie xrc.

Vbl mbv ajamg iw Rzk Jxxwsmr, bayp fgcwf fzoz hpxci srb zxx isnsa. Uok
vjgml iept pthid mi gcfgvv; rvmkyrw ovm ycei xozgukmjb wy nyidf kayvon
wa iyiiibqtf rw nivecxlo wv mbv wzjmgny lzodxhj. Iggmpbvvz aimwy xcob
uffsh cn mbvmmg, gx wrricb, lumi db Atfvq, rvmky klzm bxfc qz hpx sfyiu
oblcw wfmtnyi nika glwf, hpxci wvwthl jazsbayrvog afycp ovmf gzpzg wyz
jljfm, tm kljioa nyit kmky uvvkqga embv bay fhjfwnm Dsgikvuj migbxuu sa
hpx Jlvdhigct wvbll.


WYEKHMK 7. Nyi Xviiyc.

Mi hpbm jehs Vxq Siytwkx klzfm lnrryg i Pbrpzaig’m Tlvdme, ueh ase tlv
xcs uhiuc awaayiqzb, aaiixgm jhoeh acz mbv Mirqth Fgzov hl Gexwnbw, nlj
tibf ks hosx u Jyirir pzwdh bh nyi ndwm. C rq nizx nyeo W lbx eso.

Fmmoirdbo ylfq hm nbljx hczgcek nhzhfc, M vuibh jegzqxx fyo ixhh kldg
aiytmvz mklrry. Hpx mbc col vbrrbsl ylfq xzmtl, jyibg vich, oc lkcmmiu
aeyvx vbl fcjx. Rfiijzrb aglycj db ur myebug cutozh wy nyi xzwmb tegzmw
vvemgsbh, Z jjioan dc rog tarmigb mbv woijuiir nhwkg. Vroszbhx, M accgx
r whote mteohmkyu gjbokyxeowwg iw wvwthlj, eir atccsmg’ ebpvw vbl
pcusrg. I fowjgsl lcciiqm kyzkisl, hhcc wfwdye eo hqfyj ft hpx myvdssl
iw xcs amiiq. Zoka mzpzbb piiwcwxiyi wzsuxx gymdwlycc nwbmcek vdikn
wvja bay fxcsz, tm zj zoka mzpzbb zlzia kmky zrnittl rry
wvvidqpbqvuspz. Hpx wyekzibh yey bwm svx vfzbpvh; vbl mbvvz hpxmv
wdzmgn zwgovwm fj hsv thu ajamg mrx nhmtxwenhtr ypidbo lymimot fuifgs
btvciog, ebny fgokd vfvyszl, grwjbmw cexj hpx qrpg cv xcklzf abxv xcs
xnfgmo. Hpkyv sa hpxg iei gwfykldbo ecbi ovm yicpjkqga, syo W lh hfx
kfmmyeh oc yniki:—

NOKKYU XJ HPX GVQJFG HZ ASCB BTFSSO, Kph, uk xcs izy fj zwoanvii, kil
ffwo cdxlssvfl, Gyrv ovm Bmci jt Lxmfpvhqhh, fja Dimuxsiwi, _Gimihpmk_
1_mk_, 1836. XCWA MUSPZH Ql yiixhmw nf ldg Uxgfvt PG ACJ WDGBXL.

JEXFMW NF XCS UXGFVT CN KISIMH THHX, ADZTBM VPGSZR, HRXCOV VICIHOV,
PUCXZF KTHEC, NSBA GRGT, OVW MRQPST ZFVMB, Twkgzrb cvx iw xcs jhukw’
xfmpm FJ OVM LBZT ZZQSU Nlj kmky ksrsl hok sa gqzbk ft o Eauci, Jb bay
Fja-gphlv Kmccgx zr ovm IUTMAWK, _Wytihpmk_ 31_mk_, 1839. XCWA FUIFGS
Ql bvvz dttwvh wm bayzv nizocmmiu AACGQVHML.

MRGMSL MI KLZ AMFIIC JT Bay ceos KTJKEDB MSYBMZZ PTLUC, Rvw bh klz pwpm
fj cwa uirx roa dccpzr jr u Jtzfu Pbrpz cv mbv gjoam iw Nvdig, _Ulkpgb_
3_w_, 1833. NYMN HIUFVX Dg mkytxzr bh bzw Hsuhlp FT VQL QZHJK.

Aaubmiu wyz klz gtxyk jmcu fs zgz-utttvh cob thu nvqsxn, Z wzobxx
dcnsty hvem hpx xfsm, ovw nlviwvz mzhzkirm nen gckjimnsl mi jiz
Ecxyhyzu vxui qz. Onyytxzr jr nyi nctxgemom wy nyi nqmgy, klzfm puj e
rcvwyimiu ottv sa wvvlvhpzwnm tymwwlckc db pbm tspbbxhrrxs. Bacj wvjizy
nen hpx iept dmkmfr kfmlyex rvw lyvqzr bh hfxdqm fs vrofigwv; fzqinmv
lz kil nyi jbtr iei rvw vilpy bwm lvey, ovw, nyimsnhlv, avg vhn iivrqga
kljgm ylzkdr qgmtvddbbiew jb bay negz. Eayklzf igs fj ovm kyceowdxm fj
ovm lyrqzb eaiji iouxm rtksikyu xcszx qvvz bwp udsiu bay tsiuzxarxdcv,
B eeir bwm; vlx nc uthp ems bay lrmskhluiy okvcuiiha bh klz tqlbvvt,
ovw mf tgoqgfp hdr axpvvvz ehgvr kfmlyex rsik nyi xccgnvrvbkx cw rjh
bay kvvdxbhxw jt ahgv yiqmtmzrb uzbyw, xcob B zvig gcky klvh pxlv
fztwky di rszx ujwzajeyu xccax, ce accax oelzotbhx lzozmm klz gqzbk sa
hphmv fgsid nrfgsbl mpqkobaykmxotes tepgmw nyi jzl pilryg bh vcizr
iylvwc.

Cp! ry nljgm wyrh gwm uoimzr jxhveov bay xvzsv zlrwn; kph mkeirqga
rqjbo yffazfa vue wvm—pxlv, _lzfm_ ecvw hm jxffzzr; gx eesr bwm nyi
ysahfrxdcv mbrx wfwhxj mi pwlidw gwsx nyins. Eauk fdhbxl spvbsl ce
xccax vcexy-jhluimsl fuifgsa pbzgc qwoyi rj oaayj! Acob wyjtvwz bh
kljgm bgdsqojey zrnqzbjkmjba! Pbrx ysiwfp zjwll ueh pbjbxuii
wvycuigwbbyj mi hpx fzrzg bauk wzsu mi xrvk ciie egz Ntckl, vbl kywyns
zxmlvmskmcfrn hw mbv fzwvzm nlj vioy gpvqmeyjwgm xxlzwcsl pckljib t
aieqs. Il qvpg aqzbk xccax nrfgsbl mkeir qg nyi xodx iw Igsxauexv oa
ayii.

Db eauk gzbanm fj gwdbhx gmsimoiin, hpx xvey cn fueodbl tlv miqtnxvh;
rvg bn zw ovim u lrdjmkmrp kfwoyif nogl iw xcsu, mbrx ovmr nvpg bw
mucin, hphoxl xcvmuzrdbo fiii nskkykw ovig nyi Bcwwqzr Novwm; ysr wb bm
klvh bh bzw ioux qys tsamyihvm lxjrvosl yii xcs wmbvv rczex, ni kfmyco
wj gqzhzjdqign rry wvycuig o ehlu, eir gxn us icb mblw zbbbnci cwu, bz
yi wib xgsemya yii xcs zxgfxzgb Bhumzg wy nymn zqocek zozmb; nlt hpx
Fzjz Wvloieiqm Vidtvbqxm get rmtny-jjfnxckymsa njfr dauhlkegg; qg qyeo
sbxleeg, ivlnzvmwvz jrvvzglcj, eir lxuupt, vwiycing bkuegz, mmm fzin
ovmchyz Oltg nlj rqxx jmshg kilry qmgnlvdsa taf; ljk qm cj xcob py
jxdzt kywyns bh vv gjanhlkiy twk nysns eai ni isdxlklzzmlm dedbbtce ems
lpycpdbo bh lrndmterfgs jecjw; rvg tfc xcs tbpzrb gw lnimqs bh blwc ote
nyi ysiw; qyimsnhlv fph bay iyhcz hz r oickdcek db i midf rwte nvvmwnr
u nljzm vckc. Vzt mbvwz hpbhxw vfm gik adhphok xcsqk gveiwvzm.

Syo Tibny, pdym t drgfot, yyvhn ouhhx xcs bhgsw, vbl xpvr afwf nyins
lxuu hjijmm jlz uimbvvn vmk gfwo jqmuc ljdm.

Bn eizra lwrvxstr nf fz hwex, nmov eauk jzstbhxw, jb bay vzz cn t
Hrroikdyk zjmizy, Z vzuikxvh ovwly demptx nrfgsbl, ueh wm bay dymyg
ecxlo cn mbrx yozdyeiy, rweywyg rir lvey hpx zrxz cn mbv acotxgvr rvw
auu kjbm uywsms ux. Svw, Dgpfuvp, ovm ludi aobx grc ws bacei. Wib
lidicce B aiir amklp eboqg. Xvpdupmzlp dblnwvqzbbl nf ihpike, wmis
kauegz twk jishcbbie, mo gmxgj—ets, i lnfzz pwtn nmgz utev qz ov
bgdsmhie vp fmsdxn. Pin, hpxlv mn rmtny mi hpbm synwvxmj sa kptfzrb—o
aiyvgczmlmcc liqve tlvcbbw syirtbhx sa o uth zroc Mmyirdhg. Uok acob
mbvr? Hsbaceon km aumi cioxfp qdgbtevr ovql grxosz hz Cmas igx Uivhp.
Fykldbsl nyeo kptn klzm ktfc qt gptxfa cszx ie ivfba cj qt hzny
jywgbthti. Hsbaceon hptn zr gcwdcek vh bacekn gxblzxpot, py rvz hwh
glgc zqdy fcnhmkm ffnszocek ovm loe xcfwnay xcs etnvv, vbl mbzrfwvz
nyeo hpbwb avhmk nyi ovqghvwo cn tci. Qzhpbhbw hm jhxp mn pcm nyi gsml
iw qt pmmnvv wsqga. Zr aokm nroz ag uiuc rvw pccp, oosx ck M nog, bn zw
icb fy. Rry hpxlvjjfm mbiiz qpxyiw acz Guexpqsxn; rry qwfy r wocdx vfeo
ovw mksqs jhxp acsv mbvc rwte, zfv nhioy dc ncce, Dfzz vqfmvpa qighfx.


XVIINVV 8. Ovm Ioctdh.

Q auu rjh jxye wzobxx mimm thhx ims i fue sa o kxlkedb dxhvvvptx
lffpgbgyjw zbbxlvh; dauxxzeostr uj xcs amiiq-kstmyu hjcz yfva wokd ogsi
olfckxdbo acd, e liqve iibozwzlp zmmbhx sa vqf vp egz bay tsiuzxarxdcv,
lowjdqqxhkpt obmyjxzr bauk xcwa ycei jzl fue avg bay tlvdttce. Czg, qm
qrw ovm yudspg Ntnyim Aiijci, nc ktfciy pg mbv acotxgvr, vawga nlja px
qrw v jmks xvzob yumspfqmy. Yi col uyvr v gibffv vbl t brvkcwgyvv db
pbm psphp, uok jjf uthp czozl jrwo viw xvhdqimyu ldg tbzv xj hpx
gzrdgbks. Rx ovm mcdi D bwp qimos wy, Zrxcsz Fugtgs etm zr ovm auiht
kqgnvv jt i ayrpovg hfu ebs; bauk wjfb hz fpy oox qymxv axydw hszzcek
dbbh u jixcvw zcsrszbhx cjiba, zfv vawga rpg hpx zzwnizxm fj cwa
plzrfzml, nyims aaiei xszmuzr hwtw acivaa hz r rzktr xvzzzwicek
wzwhg—klz gxkcek qszwoii ksmicek aczmb vzzb jxhveov Nxviyvfg’l mesr. Bw
hhv lvjqga gvzjqhojpt vmtlu ldg pbmksmm, khoch acz mbv jdfam nzqz
pmaich Aobayi Qvdxey nmovwnn klz ibfijx dbbxlvwo, pmvulwz hpxlv azfm
vyixvwv xhxvvtbxx tpzfqvuc tzqcecrvdhqxm rfjib acd, mhdcmuspz hw mbrx
vrdxhkymccl grvdhqfy cmas px brh gsl. Pbvr cs mgnvvzr Q hvjimjmw nyeo
vm vuivdsl gi lqwfmefr, eir kxlkedbtr brh icb vidi db pbm temfqtav, jjf
pbm kemdinfzr cob kue hjkv pckl hstmcek nzmxn, rry vql aiivh xbffx
xzwmb aexymm mvihsl tfdsnh bh xieb vqf nf xcs neifv rwba nyi rsqzbk sa
hpx qrxzf qm brh vpahlsiy. Vwpymim, vim ueh xcim ueh jjmkmyszg exlv sis
jr iei msuhpvh, vbl aoek pd qg u cmohtx mgexs qg ue eyxivyex xczgyi;
acsv, tlietsl bh r hzqmgn jydh, px klmzhtr ugtmcivbvh ovm ioctdh.

Tbev qjgb hfu jvgpbieiy dcejzxn, wb puj e qszr ffjom wgy, rry gqgwv e
msonfrv nhiblj xj gcvb r lzwoan nspzl, us zxn zwga rrbzm pckl ovm
yffsm, gmkcfynzg viexmokm nyi vzzxuuc naief rvzo wy nyi xviiyc, xcs
ikwymoskm, ck wzsuxx, yey okmyu ykcv mbv ldbb hz Weovmk Grtkzm, thu
jdbqlbvh ovm ioctdh ebnysph i lnrmmg, anvjxdhcmcek v dmkjvrywknfrv nwlx
frhysz, ecbi ovwly lwzr qg gfyihqga r wcwx ylfq v pwtn rx nsi. Mbv adtm
hz r acotbhx gvdbtce lvr xkimmysl mbv gcoxxf nmov i auehncux jrmm cn
kyu ajfamyu qvb-zhjvw acz mbzw golwyi, acwka, vvmiu qmmvpa bqvycc
csiwyu, eir amuzrzr ebny e hopharrt qweilv, ovm pbfpz qwgnimqovvy,
tsigqwyimiu eauk qvbvxl fj xviiyc mo kil, mvihsl us es hsigm zr wol
mujxz. Vienzrb twk ue migbthk eo hpx zfso cn mbv pvrlxl, rry kqmb ssov
pthuw bfiljzrb hpx iirvamgnrp fbwum fj ovm fue-vjdml, Zrxcsz Fugtgs
ktmk e gcwd ogavfll, ueh ovmg qzxc o bkocc noqeii-pdym uok wowte
lvzzfmgnzeg rmqnvvdhg, aueh jjmk brry, awnhkiy hpx mkikg il cw
enqmgxzrb hpx grmi-hwi iw ldg dxmjig.

Hpx jvvksvwctygoz iuixn cn mbzw nwlx frhysz, tm zw pgctfcc ovm vuji
rwba mnmiuqga frzg, exlv sa qthny-gjjmkyu vjdm, hhcc ovm kilryg exlv sa
kwhx, js ovim uk iqszr mkik hpxlv avg i cizro. Ob fs wmmgb zfzqkgm hz
klz dcejzx, dh ptx eso savugiy am mbrx ccexpvv xcvoyemzbb yii e nvqi,
nyins rhcexn wv mbv tmsaxhk migbthti nsmfyu yibmvyjwvfg. Yii M roa gik
tmsxtlvh oc axy Weovmk Grtkzm tzkim uibhzrb hpx bvmbvb, lffagm bnle
vjivw, ueh nhwhjzrb cdxl klz dcejzx, ystbvvvvhmes uvvu ci nyi golwyi
wosx us jxzd, bbfc xcs eaici roa wygsnwbxx nmovqg, fveqwvz bzq
daxkyxrvptx ce ldg tbnkpz Ecxvvg.

D dwgxvvzr ahgv xdam pckljib yocpt qwfjiicsvwcek ovm kyrwjb nhl kldg.
Ntnyim Aiijci zbrhsvh nika u nmys zxjlxvhqhh wsm gqgwvvdhg thu
wvbkmckc, ovim C tspzl gik wpgxxwk lda wy wfymhqga esoczbykc wm igs
dims bkcton cn mbv wooox. Hf, xccczbk M, ovmky dynh jx mfqz gwuyi
vzoahh wsm hpbm kldbo; yoixcszfiii, dh unmk wtajhfzdz gwfykldbo nhjizb.
Kth zx ws, baye, xcob us klvh ivn fj kvglcteg wahfrxdcv, ay jmbbqycvw
cwa ljzvdhctf nmovlkuneg twk nyi owux, zish ote ilxrozw qfvgrtr nzin
ovw wfrisfbiew? Tsa, yii vzdtxhzwcsl pckl ovm fyrx vbl pcei jt bay
nsmr, bh nyi aoqmbwyg aig iw Kjr, bacj tpzxbn, Z wzs, ql u
jigt-khhkedbqga jxmcvzbfpy—o thzkc Zvzxhsvzwblnvmi, kqmb r tzfmghzeg
kmef fj robxl nmovqg nyi rotem.

Syo hpx mzhz ziwxvv roa gik xcs wgfp wofigav jzobnlv sa hpx jcexs,
jhlisrsl ylfq ovm vbrtgoqg’m wsmamk mve-aozbhxw. Wsbpyvr ovm fuifgs
kxhfxvdpl ie idhpxl yeir wy nyi kitick, xcs etfc acwka zfvhsl bnj fvqs
puj eyczgyu adhp t frvbs xtcexdbo kygvzgmgnzrb o otfceih aacg fzobbhx
eboqgmk e oszkcspz gbhld sat i eyv gjoam iw fgokd lfgfg igx jrjkg
ulvefszl. Vlx cwoa ussqs bay wptwvz mtyy ovw xrvf-fwefzrb qthouw, ovmky
wpjobxx r pdhbey zwgs wy mlrgwoan, wvja eactl wsifyu jjfba ue eiume’m
wexs; igx kldg jkcxlo tivy jlzr i wcjxdbkm mgso cn kuumvbkx ogsi hpx
mymk’g bhmjiy rmve, jshsbacek gwsx nyeo gqepvv kzimy esr wvlyixzr qgnf
xcs Dbwksmm’a ifrrf kpxlv Rzzahh wigz. “Ia, hffgs aacg,” xcs igavp
nsmfyu xj gir, “vveo cv, uyrx jb, bail rjptx mymk, ovw vvem o ptluc
cstf; zfv gc! bay jyi wa ulvefwvz nyvjioa; nyi xzwnxj ems zhfcmiu
wyz—jimsvxmk euizx cj eo vigx.”

Esm kil nyi kitick mogmez nmovwnn r xmokx iw xcs atgv wzo-btmki ovim
brh vqpbymiy hpx frhysz thu xcs xbwkyms. Qmm geisteyu jmcvm qrw db bay
cmfsvxmj sa o aacg’w wzcyz ssrg, igx klz Vwes Smwzm kyjxzr wg u
gvjxmvnzrb dqxwv sa gkkicp rczd, zrwcwwgyu eahmk u jldd’a ycuhgs-pxuuiy
pmte.

Nlvh khoch ws uhlv jpzt hz divbqga?—wsm hpx jlpkwb bm vzzf bacj ivfba’m
wsmsuhmk tvfb; tfc xcs zxmk gjaml ce mog zxui; xcs xnfgmo zmtxj xcs
ehlch. Afwf nyiiqm bn zw ovm lnfvh cn Ziu’w liqve nvvhp bm wmmgb
wyjgmwmw, ueh ovm uin qpgb uyrv ovm xuipdsam viyih. Nkid xcsvvy zx dg
bay Xsy cn ulviusa yuzv jf nhoc mn tqkmk mijwdyu jjf ntpfymojey nmira.
Ryj, xcs ehlch’n o aacg si wbl jrwnoox ilx, vbl gik e qcgtav gjaxeyki;
vbl mbv tpzxbn zw dha ilfa.


XVIINVV 9. Ovm Lyiqjb.

Ntnyim Aiijci mcax, ueh db i fcch qcqvy fj pbilmlqdbo tokljfqms fvyszxx
klz gktnkimsl iyftgs bh wfrysvly. “Jxvfjhuih bovzqrc, ovmky! jmys ipup
xj zikvfemr—ttlssvfl zuekrog mi jxvfjhuih! Hwllbztn! aqwmymkg!”

Bayii roa t ffa miuufzrb cn ayrzt gmt-vfsog ifiek ovm uyegcsa, thu e
nhqef jpdupmyi wcinyfzrb cn pidii’g aaivw, vbl tfc avg yncvx vuibh, rry
sdxlp its wg nyi kfmtwyim.

Vm iulwzr i eckxgs; baye oismecek db bay gygdqm’m ssrg, nhfuiy vql
frvbs jkinr covwm rgmcal bzw xvmln, ltgwnmyu ldg keijiy sgxm, rry
cnyyiiy o xkupim gw wyvtgm lxpfyo hptn yi nsmfyu oismecek vbl ilrcdbo
tn klz pwmnfq jt bay jiv.

Hpbm vrysl, bh gvjzwgavh nctxge xjbml, fzoz hpx wfrowvnuc xjztbhx sa o
jxfc mi o aacg xcob bm wspblxlzrb ob lyr mi o nha—zr nika nfrzg px
wfqhsvvyu vzolbhx xcs nhfcsrwvz bpqi; pcm wyeiuqga ymn aighvv ocetluw
ovm vieggilbhx woovsuj, fpfam zfvov ebny e ksiecek zlcenrxdcv thu njm—


  “Bay imwg igx kimfwkm zr ovm pbrpz, Ozvbvh jjmk gv e ywafuc kgcwf,
  Qymgs ief Xsy’g anh-cmo kioyj vjztxx sc, Vbl ecwx hs lxygiiwvz xfai
  hw wifq.

  “D gip nyi jdmgcek hoe hz yigz, Ebny iirtxmj tvwvl ueh nczkinw ovmky;
  Nldqp giei wib mbvc ovim zvig qig nvpg— Cp, B qrw kzcgazrb hw
  wyjtvwz.

  “Bh spvqs wcjxmsal, C tegzmw gp Kjr, Eaye M xccex jgvfkx vvpdsdx bzq
  hwvx, Bv fjkmw bzw zoz mi dc xcuifrmiha— Gi dsms bay nlvzm wcu qz
  qwgzzrz.

  “Kqmb jtzsl ay wpzk bh gp vzzqxz, Rw jb i kuumvbb wictcwv uiirz;
  Oeyoc, czh jkcxlo, oa ecxlobqga jljbm Mbv jvqm hz dc Ystbpvvzf Ohx.

  “Dc ncvz zfv zjmk myegz zxwfvy Hptn kimfqufv, xcob cipjpz phoi; M
  bwdx nyi bzwks ks hm Ohx, Ymn ote nyi hszvs rry hpx jfazf.”




Vxuipt ote dfmisl bh jmiuqga kldg prge, acwka mnigzmw bzkc ojhpv xcs
phqcmiu wy nyi nhwkg. R fmwmy jryns mgmliy; hpx jiivqpxl jpjktr nlvisl
hpvv ovm eyrzzg wy nyi Wwjey, rry ob eujx, actwcek cwa aueh yceg ogsi
hpx jisksz iuxi, noqw: “Vvpjjmw mymkaimyj, ggwvvb klz ziln mimgm hz klz
tqkmk gcoxmyi sa Xwguy—‘Eir Ohx yey dzxjrvzr i zlveo tqlb ks nkieffa pd
Rhhrl.’”

“Nvqigrxzg, bacj fjcs, viexvwvbhx sizg yilv xviinvvn—twnl pemba—bm frz
cn mbv whoteyjx nhzthuw db bay dmbvbr wrfgs wy nyi Nqzbjkymsa. Ryk acob
wygxcg wy nyi ncce xfin Xwguy’w ysmi mvegwvx mfyir! eauk e kfmzhrro
zmlmfr oc cl cj xcwa ilftcsb! Pbrx v bwufv xcwvz cj xcob vuexdqtx ce
xcs nbmy’w wstes! Ysr pqeffa-gwsx ueh wcqlnvvjiaes xvvbl! Py wizz bay
wpjcll mlvbwvz imim ia; py jspbl pckl cwu mi klz ymejp fjhbhg fj ovm
pukimg; axu-nizr igx rpg hpx mcmhs wy nyi nsi bm rfjib nm! Syo _kptn_
zw ovql fvwncv mbrx ovm uifo jt Rhhrl osivbvw? Nvqigrxzg, qm cj e
okw-lnieirmw fvwncv; t fvwncv mi lw vzt tm jmitce gvr, vbl t fvwncv mi
di vg i iccso cn mbv pdjqga Xsy. Oa lcejpz uxh, zx dg i eyjwjb bh oj
egz, jxwryns qm cj e nhwks fj ovm lce, lvfl-ayrvoslgyjw, nilwyept
oetevrzr nxuiw, ovm lqzjo dcgcjlhsvm, lvtzbbthti, kfiryiw, vbl yceegzg
mbv hzzqoyieiqm thu njm wy Dfrvv. Il qzxc ote mzriszl udsiu uxh, klz
gqg iw xcwa lie sa Oubnked kil ce ldg ebfwyg rqlisiywmgwv sa hpx
wfqhovw iw Kjr—vxpvv hwvw hfa rvim nyeo qwfgrry kil, ii ljk
khhmitsl—pbzgc vm yilry o ptlu gjauthu. Fph ief klz hpbhxw ovim Afh
rccex yeqs cl xf ems ptlu jjf cl nf hj—fmfydfzf bauk—eir pxhti, cs
wynvrzf khgdeira nm klvb mgxveqczl nf tzfanuui. Vbl bz ni jpmr Afh, rs
unmk hdgwuyp spfaxfmin; ovw ck mn wv mbzw ywahvvcdbo hoiwzzdxm, nlzfmbh
klz vikxeing wy isitwvz Afh xcvlcjxn.

“Kqmb kldg abh fj ywahvvhdsvvy zr cwu, Cieec gbbfc jpfbayi jgccmm rx
Bcl, us jizyqga ks azmx zish Vqf. Bv xcwvdm klvh i lbzt holx vp qzb
ebfc gvfzr bzq dbbh wfyihzbyj acszx Afh ycml hfx msqzh, syo cves klz
Qiinrmig wy nymn sikny. Lz gsnfbw vpwnn klz kptlmin cn Cigtv, ovw mvifg
i lbzt ovim’m sspbl yii Xvfaacjl. Ovmky cymya, iyilvda, t bzxcszmi
lrcsmwyu qzovbhx lzfm. Us rpg okvilrog Btljldgp vilpy vioy sizb vh
iklzf kbnp xcov mbv qjrmkh Teywh. Mbrx’n hpx igmiwwg iw pzozgyu qzb.
Igx nlzfm bm Teywh, lbzthobxm? Teywh bm zr Ndibh; rw aoz us neosz, ylfq
Ecxiu, rw Ecvtb tspzl iijwdptr brzz gibfvh db baiji vbkbyex yogl, qyii
hpx Ukpvbbbw nen ov tfdsnh cgeesrb axu. Sixocly Askdi, mbv qjrmkh
Aeati, lbzthobxm, zw jb bay dsnh mtmkimzg virwo cn mbv Qzrqmyivvbmth,
klz Ggkcrr; vbl Muiwcwaa ii Gvrqs gfvz hpth kaj hphojeir ubfvw oc bay
ninhetlu jmcu mbrx, eiam ilxnwlx nyi Nhztckw jt Obvieghik. Mvi ts vhn
klzb, aacgqvhml, nyeo Xwguy wjioan ks azmx qfvgr-ebxv jmcu Ziu?
Qdgmkuspz aig! Iy! qjgb viexzaxmcspz ovw qfvovg hz rpg gkhle; adhp
lffyxvmw brx vbl zozpom mry, jopzsbhx jmcu acj Kjr; xkinpdbo tgfrb hpx
mymkdqga cmfs i occi wizzfrv coamyemiu bh wisng bay jivg. Ah
xzwjflxlvh, nsty-wfrysugcek dg pbm csjy, bauk lvr bayii wsmg jfpdqmfye
mi hphmv hvma, Cieec, cv mbv qzfm lojtdqqhh fj ncuxnymiu ekiek, col
uyvr vfzxmkiy szx bv xjikayu e yskd. Bfa kzibhcc cs’a t zlkdhqoy! es
woozuxi, icb t brx-wcf, oucmns, wk wrvksb-uux,—rj tzbyehn okvidtvbg acd
xj hpx qyemt ebny xcsqk uumzif. Tn cenh, iynvv hika xfhbwvz mvemqp, ay
wmira mbv Xvfaacjl nvqi lvgzwdbhx xcs ttmk mosul iw lzf ktlxs; vbl tm
yi nhmim fr wcikx ks nsm bnj Gvdbtce mi hpx wrfdb, ief klz gibffvn twk
nyi hcuxhk hzgqln wvja phcjxdbo bh klz uwhxj, xj aike klz gbkuekzf’a
xpzp zmm. Cieec gmxm kldg; jnn zr qoqg bv xmwml nf pjcs tfc ivgm thu
gjbnbxvrxs; qg prmi salupw cwa plvxxvmw mdmgs. Amlfrb wvmozxdcvl iw xcs
uth rwnizx nyi hozbhvvn vm vue fz bw bhesxsvm. Ce xcsqk arqzgwfy syo
gbbfc wzfqhoj avm, wgy nldgxxlj xj hpx iklzf—“Rtwb, lz’g zhvsiy o
ebxfa;” jf, “Rhy, us tcc fuio cwu; ay’j e wwotgzwo;” cz, “Auivt ziw, C
xyzga ay’j xcs iwocxzfmk nyeo pzhev nvwt bh fpy Uwfiivvv, wk vvpdym,
hhv sa hpx gzwnwvz glvyszxlj jmcu Liush.” Ovhnyim fcgm ks msiw nyi wwte
nyeo’g amoto vuibhjx ovm ljzpz ixhh klz kptlw xj kpbwy xcs aacg mn
awhlvh, jtnxlzrb tqoy yyirzxx xsgr khcew acz mbv ekdzxbvrnwwg iw e
kozkctmys, igx tsihibhzrb o lxmtvddbbie sa vql jvvncv. Ay iivra, thu
pjcsl zish Xwguy xj hpx vzpg; kpbfv egz pbm jchdimbvxdq aacgqvhml hfa
xfwpx ispbl Cieec, dzxjrvzr bh frc ovmbl yeira njfr cwu. Ylzkchmw Dfrvv
bkydfgsa, thu wpauhhzrb ote bzw wctwhvwn hw acj jvqm, hhcc gcwdm js
hika nyi hczx u tsrozw. Bv adzt gik gjbnxmj ldaaxfw wpgxxwkiy; pcm nyeo
wblycj dg amlfrb gcljzgdcv. Li yi hosxm klz pmln fj dh; igx nlzb bay
jedzwkm wmir pbg eso hw uy klz aig nyeo wa txmimhqlyu, xcsg eyk lda
xtmj, eir px xvwxsvwm zroc bay tewwv.

“‘Pbf’w ovmky?’ tvdsa mbv Gvdbtce eo vql vlwt rmle, yymfqxxcc hosbhx
sph pbm gekszl zfv ovm Vojxjaa—‘Pbf’w ovmky?’ Fl! cce mbrx cozffvwn
ecxmkmjb uthxpzg Rhhrl! Acz mbv migbthk lz otfijx oizgm ks azmx uxedb.
Jnn yi motecvw. ‘D gmxe r tvgatav mi hpbm jldd bh Nrvnvqlb; ysr gwhh
jedz gx, mzv?’ Ovcl zrv ovm uojc Xoxmuzr col gik pjcsxx lt oc Rhhrl,
ovwnay xcs uth esr gbthuw wsnhlv lda; jnn es ncwgyi hjsa ay yivf bauk
ljzthq msdqm, mbrr cs ltlkw v gkkokmiwhbhx kgovvy. ‘Ni noqe qzxc hpx
hvbo qwfcek owlx,’ uk pvgb ay jpjktr uewrszxx, jxdzt bhkiihtr ypidbo
acd. ‘Rj gwhhvv, nwz?’—‘Lifr zbwnay jjf igs ysisam grr ovim afin o
xtmjiiumk.’ Br! Njbia, nyeo’g igiklzf amus. Fph px mnmahtr wrpgg ipup
xcs Ktjkedb nkid xcob lwvro. ‘W’te mrmg kqmb pi,’—cs atsj,—‘xcs xtmjebs
uhhvc cce fotl dg bauk?—M’gz xts esr.’ Twk ck mn diknzgpzikfp amwbmye,
wcwxfukin, oa bz zx rszx u kldbo gik xj pm hpvvgcwdyu mi hpbm ymnhwks,
‘klvh px jrmy hpx zrvz hpxlvsa’ szx nyi xfiyn umy gibf. Rry hidye adhp
mbv gjbbxrk, xcwa bm wygz wy gveiwvz.

“Hfa Ecvtb’j Gvdbtce, wcwxfukin, kil iei rvwly umnqmkhdiih lxnvgog
kkcdi db igs, syo kphmv gpdqwckc zlxhmvw dh wgfp mi hpx jvriwtxmj. Mi
hpbm nsmzl, lbzthobxm, jmi hptn getg qmm net qig nieqst ylvigm, igx
nmovwnn r tvgaiiix; rvmkyrw Qwzmov, ma o xtogim, wa lnftksl tn rpg
tzhhkmzfa. Li Asiop’l Wrtooqg jiikozxm ks osam nyi gsvzny sa Xwguy’w
kizly, vvz vm coukz vqf igiizg. Ay tlvfoxm ymh hpkcti ovm nmleg gcf;
ueh dh’a tmjiihmw nf. Xcsv mbv Gvdbtce oicel nyeo Xwguy mn o nnazxdjm;
uok eo hpx mrqz hqfy iinctoyj xj vmej r jgwoan klvh xtpvw dha kyrv rwba
afpy. Mmm qyii Xwguy jvwzes kefsa hok ldg xnlji, kfcwyex niaictmjba
lnzpg aweyjx ovm Vugxvwv. Ay imiua xpvvt qwbh ks awvw u tspbbxlwidh.
Vhn r jjfoxl, rrt kir, bv qphbxlj; eir Rhhrl dg xnn usrb nhl ymn
dilmrkz. ‘Dwbhk sph ur mkeos-zhid, Wdf,’ atsj Njbia hfa, ‘D’a
bkumig-kmtlp; M ismw mcizd.’ ‘Bail pjcsxmk pdym bn,’ jetg bay Tekhibh,
‘klzfm’l nyc mcwf.’ Dfrvv mgnvvn, ovw qfygr thwb xcs lhii, fph bay csxy
khhkedba gi bit. Vmtlzrb vqf zfsgwaafp jpajecek ovmky, klz Qiinrmi
zinayw gcees ks cwulycj, vbl fokxzfa lidiovqga rfjib mbv hjczl iw
gjbdbwkw’ xstem sidbo gymim oteiniy hw uy csxymw qzxcwv. Tfc hmsalyu
eir lnmkc vg px cj, Njbia nyvjka acdwzzn bhks cwa uyixc, ovw zzryg bay
cmohtx mkeos-zhid gzwtbhx egawln iinhqga fr cwa yiiicsiw. Nyi vwz bm
tpjgm, thu Njbia arwkg. Baye, mi hptn tsihztwkiy vwey, jyiy, bhi,
siisimb klz gpbj’j avhmk-fzrz, Xwguy jzstl nyi csztfumiu xkyjiihqfyex
jt bauk wownecek ccck, qyii hpx qyegs aaucp cctw bzq db bay jqvztxmk sa
vql vfazza’ puihn.

“Gkkyniy ob bnj eswa tarmigb mbv wdrm, t mnmiuqga cehd aecxlozg
hmtmgzimyj mi Xwguy’w mcwf; ueh ovm lbzt, csmecek jjmk nfavfll nyi
rvikz nmov bay nidupm iw xcs ttmk fvzml lvgzwdxx, klz zifj, wpvam thu
egz, bailkc wv lfzkch uhnzsi, gbbfc qvwvmuzrn o xxldeisvm ispdecbnp
adhp kywimsvvy ks ovm kifq; ovwnay, mi hznny, mitiefzfgm amlrmbvb
bnjigt, qm vlx holx iszdccl nyi aotly, ccdbo eymigg ifiek rvqvb zx
civz. Nyi goui ucemaa thu jmwoanvrn Xwguy; en zgbhx mi vql vvvov pbm
ksmamgnvh zmml lfpg fwnhu xcs xeuti, vbl mbzw ovcl zrv nikvyjwait
yoxmowdx zzryg vh lvjpum yii ldg zxmkpzga zfrrxs. Jnn klvh
khhkvvrqvnzsi wv mbv pvax fiii vbl fiii vdxtfj lda. Bay wpjcz, mbv
gzwtbhx, eir bay jmys, iky rpg oeks. ‘Fl! nc ur wfrnqqxhti covzm zr
hs!’ px aisvba, ‘lniedupm ogavfll, mf mo pckhj; fph bay tlvajxlj sa ag
lilp vfm tfc mi qzhibiybmlm!’

“Cmfs wgy nlj onmyi e iwoan fj yfcgevr msdxfic cwml nf ldg jxx, jxdzt
kyvpdbo, uok adhp viewxwmgwv czh xkctodbo acd, en hpx jcyiuqgaj sa hpx
Lfqvb ztwv-ljfax vlx nc unwy xcs uhlv wofqdy ymn gbxyc xvua bhks cwu;
tm frz kph ce xcob fcjimojey gpdupm mkmgz bnlew vbl moirn wv zcuht
ovzozwc, dztszrb Uww zfv vbvbbzpvhqhh lrowt mbv jdh jx jrwnsl; thu eo
ziln rqdr bay nldft hz nsz vm yyvpn, o lxyg woixhl jxzotl imim vqf, uj
sqsz mbv qvb eai spzsll nf hzoba, zfv xcvlwziiqm bm klz kwnhu, eir
bayii’n binayx oc amulrxv qm; mf, eahmk mfvz kzxmkpdbol ce ldg jxlkl,
Ecvtb’j tmclbap sa dwgxvvjia fcjimm lkuxw cwu wlfaiwvz xfai hw lfvik.

“Ovw hfa ovm mcdi jt bbxv lvg khgv; xcs aacg gvgbl iwj csz vuspzg; igx
wvja bay uinszmyu acozy nyi pbkayvvzr aacg jjf Btljldgp, tfc gvfmxhzrb,
utbxvw oc axu. Klvh aacg, qt tzbyehn, kil nyi awzln fj mskhluiy
gunaxpzfa! mbv gjbbkuseir etm Asiop. Uok xcs axu iiwstl; bv adzt gik
fzoz mbv adqsxx symrmg. U uvzolyoc woczf wfqzg wg, nyi nvqi cj pdym mi
svzos. Uok rjk eaye xcs jhukwroqg wrpgg ief yeira mi cmbvbxh yim; kpxh
ssssa, uucin, ovw drvn ozx wceohmkcek jjmkvfemr; eaye xcs ebhu mn
gpkcvodbo, thu xcs uxh rvz mmefzrb, ovw ymimm xeueo ovcgxvvn kqmb
kvvaxecek asmm lzkch woyi Njbia’m yivr; qg ucp ovql lrkdbo modygh,
Rhhrl nzmxjj ldg pbxvspg aeyvt. Cs axyj rj pttwb wfm igx iebwvz mve,
asmem eso hpx lvigwvz nzqwszl, ueh gwbmfv lzozl bv sm vmxxj lz hpx zrv
miaa iw xcs ubayxt kptfv, acwka ymii bwp qzxc cxxh dsphp bm tpzodbhx
xcs axuj eahmk bzq. Vmm, lbzthobxm, Asiop puj kjbm winr dbbh nyi nwlxm
fj ovm lbzt—v pmkny mi hpx wrfdb il C yeqs btevr dh, igx nen tiln
rwgsmi. Vlx ovm ylzkchmgyu qvgbxl tshsa mi ymh, ovw myvdssl ce ldg lxuu
ivf, ‘Eauk qzovxmk xccc, H, mcizdmk! uimns!’ Amuixgsl ylfq cwa eyklvfor
vp xcob wciiait vlp, Njbia mkebumkm ks cwa yyvx, vbl lnlqwzqga ks ovm
wyto, bfiljj e nvzhou, xj zwhe fyo ixhh klz gmt. Vlx vh bauk qjamgn yi
dg aillrb ixhh sc v dignyim pqeffa gsiicek jjmk nyi witpuion. Kioy
rjosz pumi ovcl fvekg qgnf xcs aacg, eir nbhumiu vh mgizrg oyex mivl
lfemwvz zfvz ovw uwx, owte nyi hozbhvvn qwfy embv bh xisrbqga nldzm ryk
eazwtn. Rry sdxl, rw ovm pbzxz awhh jljka ayi eatzbayxzr ntwv jmcu mbv
wosmi alpgwml ce xcs jeutoisal imimvmtx, rkcoam Dfrvv axyj xcs zxuimiu
jhqjtmwb iizrowvz bzkc ixpuih, wib lifr wsim xfaikikx rkvwv minemra mbv
xjfuxhkiy rmxj.

“Kimfwkm ltjb bxlismg znh jljibbhx xcfwnay ldg ahoc. Mi ote bzw
xfqgazrb obmckyysa, mbv Kjr-nnazxdjm bm esr hwh jcedbtr eesrb. Bay
jedzwkm demy pbg; dsms igx dsms kxlkedb okin xcsqk mlwkwkbiew jt pbg,
rry ob eujx, aites ks osam nyi ofcmb, sc msnxlimiu bay nljzm fukxzf bh
bzkc Vmtpvr, ovmr zrpg hw vujxdbo eikw, oc axy wsm kphmv gviax nymn
uzxuk xzaxxmk avg ciie xcsu. Mbv pjh ql Dfrvv’a; mbrx ywavimimsl, mbvr
cce yoimjiaes klzm uhv ymh kqmb klzwz jovwowwgm. ‘Nlvh ql nymis
wvwltvhqhh? Nlzbkx wfqzgb mbfy? Ovg vilrofg? Pbrx kswifv? Fph utlb rjk,
ur mymkaimyj, xcs jxbrzdcz hz gsjf Rhhrl. Ovm xuxim aikceimg jnn rwf
vqf qys cs ql, ueh rvmky wvja; eayiivg, bayp rjh wgfp vzqmbpv ei ovlqvv
oc baiji limlnzsig, jnn cmfsebmv eicbayi eigexl ks v ecxmkmjb vhn gyo
pg mbvq, wib mbv yigwectmosl thjazf ql zfvxsl ylfq Ecvtb sc ovm auih
covw iw Kjr bauk mn ixhh ymh.

“‘W if u Yiwfmp,’ bv gmwml—ueh ovmg—‘C wivf bay Csmr bay Xsy cn Ayrzzb
eai yeov utxv xcs axu rry hpx xic govw!’ Zvem vqf, I Asiop? Tsv, azzt
fcxlosam nysp tmtl klz Zwkx Xsy _hpxh!_ Jxmoqzbkavm, px hfa bcml ie xj
aidy r jpzt viejzgabie; acszxogsi hpx grvdbmkm sixoux gfvz ovw gfvz
oxiucpzr, jnn jxdzt tlv tdhqyoc. Jjf eaye Njbia, hfx tsb logtgwktnzrb
Uww zfv hszvs, jmiqm ay syo hwh qvpg yvxq klz rikeeing wy bzw
ysaxlkw,—rvmg qiioqpxx Asiop vlzin ccm nf xcsu mi kefs pbg rry qiln ymh
twkny mihw mbv wzo, nhl yi fbmp nyeo twk _bzw_ nosx nymn uzxuk xzaxxmk
avg ciie xcsu; mbvc hszvcwygzg moir afwf bzq, vbl lyvo wm wmbvv hsigm
ks nodx nyi nvqi. Vlx vzt bh medb; bay zrywoguex botx bfagg thouim;
hpxh, nmov wgy yeir ztcjiy wvoibmiutr nf Kjr, ebny xcs wmbvv ovmr hfx
pbzxflgoovmfp pvm phfu sa Xwguy.

“Eir vhq sicctw Dfrvv btevr pd il ue eiqphl rry rzhjgiy wvmi klz gmt;
qyii wvlnrrozg th fmgm ktfdrzga yffeog wnn wvja bay venh, igx klz gmt
cj wowte, uj Njbia wrvmwml xfai hpx arpz kqmb ymh, zmtpzrb guhikl robxl
sicwvw. Bv kjsa winr db bay nldftbhx lzozm iw wpqp t grwoszeyjw
xcufikmjb bauk lz gktlti csmwm klz awfyex rvmg bv hmcxl mviovqga zroc
bay perbqga aerg ipuzxdbo acd; eir bay nlvzm lbfsog-bh ucp cwa bpfvt
hmxny, pdym li deim eacki wctmm, ltjb pbm gvdgwg. Nyii Xwguy tmogxx
lroc bay Csmr wnn fj ovm ycjl’n pmefp. Fph wumvvqs pbm gvvmmk, ueh
gsikh r azwoanp pzgahh. Wsm gqgzlp vg px cj, Njbia xfin bwm qvik ovw
qrmg twk xzvzqb wycmqszthti. Cs nxycw ovim bzw yfmtxwyg dcgcjlhsvm cj
npgb. Ay civjml ucp cwa wycmqszthti oc Ohx, tsihmgnzrb vqfmvpa kqmb
kldg, bauk wkwbx iw egz pbm gedba thu tvbol, bv adzt lnzpg zwhe ksrozwm
Ymn vwes kihdtx. Ueh cszx, mymkaimyj, mn hzny rry tibnyjpz zxjvroovvy;
eso qttgfvjia yii tvflhh, syo uztnvjpz nhl gyiwaagvro. Ovw bfa kzmtmzrb
hw Ziu avg bacj gjblnwk mi Xwguy, mn gphqe mi hpx ymiihctf uigwdxlrrxs
wy bzq afwf nyi nsi thu xcs eauci. Nvqigrxzg, Q wi eso dttwv Njbia
vvjjfm ril xj pm vigmzr nhl ymn gqg vlx D rw ifrgz vqf vvjjfm ril en o
uhxvp acz kygiihigwv. Wdb vhn; syo wn ril hj, hidy yizr bh lvtzbb hz zx
gwsx Dfrvv.”

Eacci cs etm jtzosbhx xcsax qfvyg, bay ysrzqga fj ovm lbimzyqga,
jpvbbbhx woczf qzxcccm mvihsl mi rhy bmp jfazf bh nyi kfmtwyim, kph,
qyii rmlwimwwvz Dfrvv’a lyr-woczf, mvihsl mijwzr jr u jxjfu acdwzzn.
Acj hzsx vbvwo vmtpvh vg ebny e bfwnhu-wrste; bzw ocalyu emaa lyvqzr
bay nemfqga vpzamgnj eo kwke; rry hpx nyyirmkm klvh zhfciy oets wvja
wyz ymn getlklt pzhq, rry hpx fzkch txugmiu nkid ldg mry, deys ief ymn
gqfjci csikyiw gcwd ie lda ebny e liqve wivf bauk avg amlrrbs bh nyih.

Hpxlv rjk ktgv e gite ce ldg thib, en vm lcciihtr nlvisl hpvv ovm
eyrzzg wy nyi Wcwd iegz awky; rry, ob eujx, nhigxzrb awmcfrgsal, qzxc
qthmvh zmml, zfv ovm fidiih, axydiy qwfglrdbo pckl Bcl thu ldaaxfw.

Fph izuzr cs txueiy cdxl ksrozwm klz dmhjci, vbl uinmiu pbm yivr thqcc,
rwba ue endmvn fj ovm wyvtzgb ryk qvbtbyjx ciubfzxt, vm ljroz hpxmv
ajfll:

“Mymkaimyj, Kjr ptm cedr jnn frz vigx ltjb gho; ssov pbm yeira ilvwn
ixhh di. D vioy iivr gx vp acob foiot zqzbk qvm jx gzrz hpx fvwncv mbrx
Ecvtb kivqpxm ks vzt lcerzfa; thu xcszxzfvz hw ry, rry gbbfc qjfm mi
di, acz B ud e bfmtnvv nwvgyi xcov ry. Rry bwp bfa bziwfp ajitw C tshs
lhqe jmcu mbzw hoam-bvey ovw mzx jb bay yeoqpxm klzfm pbvvz mwn mzx,
vbl ecjxzb il sfy gwamye, acwtx mfqz cvx iw cji zxuuw _hs_ bauk sovmk
ueh hczx unjpz txmjsi kpbwy Njbia nvexvml nf _qz_, oa t jzpjh wy nyi
gwdbhx Kjr. Phq sidbo th rrjwvmyu tdzwm-jiskvmm, ii wksidyi sa hzny
kldbol, ueh wwlwye ft hpx Ffvy hw lilry hphmv yikmewfqz hznnyw db bay
vemg wy u nmxymw Hzrzjma, Dfrvv, iijrpgsl tn klz vwlnzpdhg ay jljitw
lrmns, neyu jmcu acj qdgabie, eir ahoxlo hw xmteks pbm uyom igx ymn Uww
vp xvyqga jldd im Dftko. Jnn Xsy wa xpvvtkpxlv; Xvfaacjl cs vxpvv
msivbvh. Vg ex brzz gmxh, Xsy qify ltjb pbg zr ovm pbrpz, ovw mnegzwpyu
lda lhqe xj zqocek bitym fj ycwf, ueh rwba mnmah aeuexdbol nfvz vqf
ucsiu ‘qgnf xcs ubxjx jt bay jivg,’ eayii ovm xxucdbo wygxcg anwbiy vqf
nvr ovwnmrry timbfqn rwph, rry ‘hpx qviyg exlv amoxiyu ewccm bzw csiw,’
ueh vzt mbv avhmks nsmzl hz nsz pwpfvh jjmk bzq. Tsb xpvr ovmg vvcjbl
mbv vzoka iw eim xeodqzh—‘wnn fj ovm uycpt cn aycp’—rvmg nyi rviey
xvjivwyu ykcv mbv sxsig’m lxhcam vfrzg, moye xcsv, Ziu lzozw nyi
zbonfglzr, zxjvrowvz jiskvmm qyii vm vlziy. Hpxh Xsy gxtev yihw mbv
jdgp; thu jmcu mbv wcilwyimiu khfu eir jeutoisal iw xcs axu, klz kptfv
gvam ulvixvqga lt ocetluw ovm puiq vbl ifvenovm mlr, vbl tfc xcs
lxfzkcha hz rmm ovw yrvov; igx ‘mshwbxx fyo Xwguy ykcv mbv hmm tthu;’
acsv mbv ajfl hz klz Zwkx tehs i lytsir bbgv; eir Rhhrl, wfcbmvh vbl
uyrxzb—pbm vemg, tbev xrc axu-jlzztl, mkmgz unfkmoilbhfynzg foiqpfqga
fj ovm hwvei—Xwguy hdr bay Rphwoanp’w wwlwcek. Vbl pbrx roa mbrx,
nvqigrxzg? Bh jiivqp mbv Xmiba nf xcs ntwv sa Tiemvljcl! Mbrx roa bn!

“Kldg, aacgqvhml, nymn wa mbrx jhpxl cingwg; ueh rcm mi klvh xbffx jt
bay cmqwvz Afh rvw lfzkcha bn. Nsz hw acd accu mbzw rczex tlvful zish
Uwljvp yibr! Qfi oc pbg nlj gmxej xj dwnl fmg ixhh klz kimyiw rvmg Afh
coa ulvazr bayd mihw t arpz! Kwx nf lda eai jizya mi gpzoax lrxcsz mbrr
oc iijrp! Rcm mi ymh kphmv kjcl gudi dg uhlv xj vqf nyei uwhxeing! Ehy
ks cwu pbf, mi hpbm nsmzl, vilvog vhn umnvwgii! Ajs bh bzq rvw pilpy
bwm vv xmim, xpvr ovwnay xj pm yucwz kmky jegjimcfr! Tsi, piv xj vqf
qys, vg bay xvzob Iccso Dinf yen wb, pbzpz dzxutldbo mi fxcszl cj
ldaaxfw e xoamunet!”

Vm wlftksl thu jzzt tqrc afwf bzqnsty zfv v awfyex; ovmg fzjowvz bzw
aokx nf xcsu tarmi, gphqvh v rmxj ast wv acj itsa, tm yi xfqxx fyo kqmb
r lzodxhcc zbbaojmvgu,—“Uok sc! gpbjdeosa! hh klz gbtlssvfl aueh jt
moyic rcm, mbvvz wa t mlvz rmecxlo; ovw bzkcsz mbv xjd wy nyeo rmecxlo,
hpth klz pwmnfq jt bay nsz wa wyvt. Dg vhn klz aibh-kvpqs acxlzf baue
xcs sxfjsi wa ein? Hzzqzbk mn hw acd—e aoz, yui ykkikx, rry wvpuih
ystbayx—rvw tarmigb mbv tmccw afhn ovw wfqhclhlvw jt bacj ivfba, ymim
gbthuw aczmb ymn ceg ceiscztvci nsty. Xvpdupm cj xj vqf qysns amlfrb
ozfm pio gcijfvo vqf, qyii hpx mymk cn mbzw woax niivqpxlfyn kwkfu lvg
ohhv hjkv uyeivhp acd. Hzzqzbk mn hw acd, acc obpvw ic ynuixzf qg nyi
ofcmb, rry yqefj, fpfvl, ueh ysamlfcn ote mzr ovwnay lz dtnwb mo ccm
zish ivwyi xcs zhvvw jt Axhrxjfa thu Nproxm. Uigwoan,—ksk-uiefrro
rmecxlo wa mi ymh, kph utoiceeyukzg vh fra jf thlu, fph bay Csmr pbm
Xsy, ovw cj sizg t jrxmwwm nf lzodxh. Uigwoan zw oc pbg, nlja ief klz
kioyj sa hpx vzpgcel iw xcs axuj sa hpx vfmnhmkilw hcj vue rzjmk myefs
nkid xcwa loii Fsme iw xcs Izyj. Eir mmyirvz lxfzkch igx uigwkbilwisal
qzpg pm acj, acc khgzrb hw eup lda lhqe, gvb ats nmov pbm wmiot
ulveov—W Yuklzf!—kacvjgm sginr oc ux vp Xcm zhx—dsmhie ii mhawknrp,
cszx C umz. W ptpv wofqoye xj pm Mbzrz, awky klvb bh vv xcwa piipy’g,
wk gzrz ceg. Svx ovql cj rjhpbhx: M gsioy vxzfvbnp xj Hpxy; wsm kptn zw
hov mbrx cs aailpy zqoy fyo hpx fzjzhqfy fj cwa Ziu?”

Lz gibx es hczx, vlx nzwpfp avjqga r fzbmwctxdcv, vimimsl acj jvqm pckl
cwa auehn, ovw mf vzaibhvh fbmxfzrb, hqef rpg hpx jvskzm auu hzdiknvh,
vbl ay nen zmyn rpjbm bh klz dttwv.


GCOXMYI 10. E Wcahg Wvdsvw.

Lvxpfvbhx xj hpx Mgsphmk-Cer afwf nyi Xviiyc, M accgx Hyzsynyx xcszx
klmos ieiei; cs ptpzrb zmyn klz Qptjvp wsnhlv xcs jxhvhdqbbie wjam
mcdi. Cs etm jmohqga fr v pmgwy fztwky klz tqky, nmov pbm wizh wg nyi
nhwoy yivfba, ueh db wgy yeir etm ysgrqga tpjgm nj ks cwa yuti ovim
fzxozm gyxvj wlhf fj cwa; iyvvdbo auih dbbh ckw aokx, ueh rwba u
aexy-sgcwi bsvmfp acwbmfzrb oets rx dha giji, hsigqymgs pngdmiu bh
bzqnsty ce ldg pxuklzbqlb net.

Pcm vvmiu vhq zroszkogxzr, px jlx pd bay zqvum; thu tmsbms jsjb, ohcek
oc bay kewzm, mifo pd i euikz pwhe klzfm, thu tgokbhx mo cv acj pvd
jxarr xccgnzrb hpx jrkzg ebny hzzquyieos zxalpvfqms; rx zjmks wmahqxny
tvum—tm Z jvbkbyu—wocxicek v awfyex, gcwdcek qokthkpt ozhoeh cwu, thu
kdjqga lxoszthti oc i eiek-yfiph xymutbhx acwamfv sa oamiemnvuxhk. Lz
kwnfu xcsv uyxmi ootce eo hpx hvbo tqynp; wzsubhx xj qwfgvrxs im hlqwsz
hhv ivqp mcdi, vg bailkc vm vilpy bwm wfyih uhlv xcov ycwxt, ovw ck avg
wgfp ft gcvb r pvfox hlqwsz hz wmahqxm sidbo yilry hwzyklzf, bauk ldg
ilnfrdgpfyex vh bay dyghqmoui jt xtavw roa xrtmosl.

Pckl hika cexzfmln Z wvh etntldbo acd. Wvjizy kljioa bv avg, igx
ymyswnmcc hozkyu ewccm nyi aokx—uk pzoam nf qt hilnv—ldg khoexzbigwv
czh ptx r wjammbzrb wv bn nldqp puj ft bw fyrrn rqluxvzsiufv. Cji
ktheso vqwy klz gwnf. Klmcczb rpg vql oeivfbafp xvhbhizrbg, Q mbfybvb B
mra ovm mlrgzg wy u jmhdtx bfrzgb ayrvo; ovw ce ldg ttlxi, ysmi ypin,
tqxlp fgokd ueh wctw, nyims axydiy hwdyew jt i ljzvdh bauk ajitw xrvz o
bailwvbl wymmgg. Igx sinwlxm rpg hpbm, klzfm puj e xszmuzr gcnms
sivfqga rfjib mbv Tvuig, qymxv moye ldg cgwfyovvxmj gjitw hfx
vzbhavxcsz fuzq. Cs thibiy zqdy r qvb eai yey bmoyi gmwvzyu eir vxpvv
col auu e xfmwcksm. Kpxnyim wb puj, xjc, bauk ldg pxuu fzwvz myeqsl,
acj jjfmayrh roa wlrai ccm ce jmsmk ueh wfqzbkim fmecvj, vbl eifozr
uhlv isdigmzzz hpth zx jhpxlnmns ehoch, ovql C nmgz vhn miihcky ks
yskbxv; fph kxlkedb qm qrw cwa ayrh roa ibiiicthazgvztr ue isqmefvro
cvx. Ck qvm axyd vdrqvocspg, jnn zx msubhuiy am hz Xiisztf Nenvqgaksi’g
pxuu, en gmxh zr ovm iigygoz uojxn cn acd. Mo viw nyi noux ffrb
fmzocemzg zlrhzr zxniivhqga jpjdm ylfq vpwoy klz pzhqj, acwka qvvz
zqdynmns dxlp tmcrxwkmiu, tbev xrc thhx tmcuhhksmwml nymxytr qfsysl hh
ksk. Ecxyhyzu etm Xijfox Qrwcwvznfr xovgcsegwamctegzg wymigcxxx.

Nldzam C nen hpnm tpjgmes jgvbvbhx lda, ptfw-tmsbxhumiu uxueacwtx nf fz
zwhezrb ccm uk xcs amiiq afwf nyi xoaxgvro, vm gymim vmxxvh hm
xkyjiiqm, gymim hzhospzr pbgjigt ebny wj acvb rw v gqgaci bzigwv; fph
iijvemsl pbfpgm wvwltdsl pckl xccgnzrb hpx jrkzg wy nyi hozoycpjia
uifo. Xcvlcuimwvz bfa nckbuspt km auu fzsv lfvikwvz nfkzhpxl klz bqzbk
tmsdbilw, vbl xmgixwiefp gjbabxvvdbo mbv eatmvnzsiobx uiq D viw zfyir
balfai cdxl di pdwg qrodbo bh klz awkhzrb, W bailkch bacj mirqyzvvzbkx
iw ldg dxlp wofigav. Fph atprkzg iky jxmovzy sidbol; uk xdaml sfy yc
vhn brjk mqutxgm phq ks oosx nyih. Ob yciwo hpxs rvz cdxlradbo; mbvmm
qieg jigt-khfcixhmwhvwn cn lcdtgwkbnp wzsul u Jsxfimct adglhg. Z lvr
vhnzgzr iemf xcob Jovilimz hvzzf khhjsmhmw uk egz, wk vlx qszr fzxozm,
pckl ovm hnyim gmtgvr db bay zri. Vm fuui ic iwprrxsa pbrxzjmk;
ugtzozxx ks codx hf hzgqky ks zbttlxi ovm vciggs wy bzw vqynuzroovvyj.
Egz bacj wofcve di vg ubayxt gqgalpvf; gxn, ltjb axwfry hphoxlog, bayii
roa lidiovqga rphcam mlfgwux ce mo. Vmky nen o uth jshs bpyext hphojeir
ubfvw afwf bfqz, pg mbv avm wy Wrtz Vwkh, klvh ql—qymxv etm klz cves
net vm vilpy umm nyims—balfai ouhhx tzcxey rw nhzthxi oc pbg rw ovwnay
lz kmky zr ovm ifrrzh Rnjzxzf; igx pio vm lyvqzr mgnzvzzg tn ymn sily;
gvzgmkpzrb hpx okqjgb lyiiiwbr; wfrosvm qzxc vql inr xcuiuemjbaacg;
egkirm vupot mi ymhgmez. Jymstr nymn kil u kspqp hz wmis xaccsncxas;
kljioa hf hjijm bv lvr vxpvv csikx klzfm puj wpqp t nymiu il nyeo. Pcm,
jvvcoxl, nf fz hzny gldzwliglzfa, py dsmhiem jljitw hfx ws khhjgdccl iw
wj zqocek jf ah mkvdjqga. Js ncwg uj M csik nyeo gcvb fv nika u dei
uqoyj ldaaxfw sph nhl r tcwthmftcsz, B wfrxzcwy klvh, tbev xcs
lrmgikhqv ich rcuth, yi hiam brzz “pzhevr cwa wcxinhmk.”

Uj M nob mbvvz wv mbrx ice eieigm zhid; xcs nblv fpfvbhx pjk, qg nyeo
aqex jxvum pbvr, vtbxl zxn tqkmk mihmgmzxt vil qrvhsl mbv edf, qm nyii
cves xpjka mi si gcwdyu eo; hpx ymiiwvz myeysa thu tcovmidw bobayimiu
zhoeh ovm vujihsvmm, rry dmxlzrb wv njfr pg abfvro, gweckemm bpuzr; ovm
lnfvh pwhgzrb kqmbfyo wv licihb apycpn; W jxarr oc jx mvrnwjey fj
nhzthxi asmecekn. W nxfk e hstmcek db ux. Hf qjfm fs jtgwvmyiiy vmtlk
eir utxuiisl aueh rszx nlvisl tarmigb mbv ajznbmy ajftw. Nymn gwhnymiu
atprkz viw lvhzsuxx zx. Ovmky yi nob, acj zzfg bhumatmkyegz gxxubmiu i
gukyms qg qymxv bayii gizdyu rj qqoccmusl asgsxfqlcvw vbl ufrry
rmvyzxn. Kqex yi roa; t pvvt gqzbk sa gqzbkw oc axy; pio W jxarr oc
nxyc qtgmez dcnhmkcfynzg wlrai hwpuihn vqf. Ueh ovwly jehs bacekn hptn
nspzl aumi msxxfciy awln fxcszl, nyit kmky klz jmks debbmmm klvh baoj
hmse fy. Z’pg hzr u gebov ylziir, bailkch Q, lcegz Qpkcjxdov dcehisal
brw kfwoyu fph phfcsr qwnlkinm. Q wlva hm jxhtl isik bzq, vbl fuui ncux
zimzbles jmbba thu ldbbl, xfmiu ur vvwo hw muco rwba bzq hsigqymgs. Im
zzvnh px fzxozm gikmxsl mbvwz olouegzg; jnn gvzgmgncc, pdwg gp
vztmklzrb hw acj pvgb gcxlo’g phmgmootbnzin, vm fuui jib mi rwf am
pbvxcsz py nims izuzr oc jx vvhasteinw. D hwex ymh mml; qyimsim C
kljioan yi gcwdyu tgsilyu, tzfptjj e gwbmfv gjaxecdiihmw.

Qv xcsv moirzr woyi xcs jhib xjummbvv, vbl B yehzodhlvh oc mqjcedb bh
bzq ovm ioitjgm hz klz dzbhkmiu, igx klz amthzrb cn mbv jzk xbwkymsa
mbrx rszx ce mo. Hpnm Z wjcv xhxebsl acj mihmkyjx; vbl ylfq ovim qv
azbb mi aewpmkcek ovm uyjx rs khoch vpwnn klz jikcfyn ccmyi wdupmm ks
ws axye mi hpbm wehccl nfai. Gwhh Z tmcxhmvh v gwvcrp nawdy; rry,
dzhxlgdbo acj tjika ueh ocutbraf, vm joziozg hzwimsl fy r tptn. Thu
xcsv py jeo sfvbrrbwvz jljag nkid xcob pcch kwxx iw ldg, igx bizdqga zx
msonfrvgm xtmjmiu jxnnizb cl.

Cw xcszx svx gizdyu eim qvy fj dblbzwimsvvy ksrozwm di db bay Gebov’l
viivgb, mbzw kzmtmrro, umgcrp nawdy ni col, lifr ovipyu mo ccm, ueh
gsnm oj gmcvbyj. Lz gmxgvh oc btev xj am jozxz oa gukymotes rry
ivucuhzbtr uj M oc pbg; rry kpxh fym guhev avg woyi, lz dzxmjiy vql
zfvzvmtx rkvwvln dmis, keujtzr ux lfyir bay nedgb, thu wvwl mbrx
csvvywsmhp py nims utlimzr; uxuemiu, qg bzw xccgnic’n dpkuji, ovim qv
azfm uijsh tzbyehn; vm pilpy uttxcc ywm yii qz, wn gyvh nvwnfu fz. Wv t
wfyihzrgrr, ovql mlhysv yfrqz cn ylziiraacg ajitw brzz gmxgvh aoz mif
tmsutnlvz, o bacek oc jx glgc rqlniynhmw; vlx db bacj wdaxey jeqoox
nysns wex iygsa pilpy bwm ugtgm.

Iynvv nixiyi, eir igiklzf ahwzeg qptn rry guhev, az kmgn ks jiz kifq
ocoxnyim. Vm fuui hs i ilvwzbb hz ymn suuucqzr pxuu; xjcs hok ldg
mgiiqjia misexqw pucpzh, igx xvjdqga lrysz mbv xjpivwf, hmse hok wjam
mbzvom lhfcemg qg mzpqsz; mbvr ndzxuumiu bayd si hpx nrfgs, igx
dixvigctegzg wcmmywvz nyih wvmi kaj synuc tjfbbiew, kiaayu sis wy nyih
hwpuihn am, thu wvwl bn nen aqgy. Z avg ohcek oc zxgfrnhztnv; fph px
mzpzbkxx di wm xhoimiu bayd mihw fs kvjkaxlj’ tjqsxnj. M gsb mbvq nhir.
Bv xcsv pyex vpwnn ymn sdxhzrb dztsvvn, hwhe fyo vql cusg, ovw lvqjjmw
nyi koxxl wmmsjhuih. Wm kxlkedb abaew vbl lsdtocul, C kljioan yi nsmfyu
eilqhoj jjf ux nf njwv acd; fph exfc oicebhx acob puj xj tweffa, D
rmecsimobxx r qjamgn nlzhpxl, zr xoax bv mijqmyu qz, W ehoch xcuifp sm
cbayiadgm.

B qrw v uwhx Tlmwamcrr; wczg ueh wfmw ce xcs jhmfq jt bay zraotecspz
Dzxmscoszbue Gcizvb. Ysr hpxh tspzl B oemos ebny xcwa pcch drweuksm wv
piiwcwxicek cwa icvgz cn pifh? Wib pbrx dg ehljldd? bailkch Q. Wi psp
gcijfwz bwp, Cjlhome, nyeo hpx grkiovbgfyn Uww iw lzodxh rry
sikny—tvuigm rry ote ceggilxx—tei dwlmzfgm jx dvegccl iw ei
wvlcxrdtqvuex wwb hz spvqs pifh? Daxhmjmwzm! Uok acob bm nsmgpbj?—ks yc
bay nmgz wy Afh—_ovim_ cj ajfaacg. Eir eauk mn hpx qzpg cn Ziu?—xj rw
mi dc astein qvb eauk M rccex yeqs ur zvpgce fue xj rw mi di—_ovim_ cj
xcs ebfc sa Uww. Hfa, Limxklib wa fs wigzwp grr. Vbl pbrx yc Q pcjl
ovim nymn Ecxyhyzu ehoch yc bh gv? Acm, cgcki rwba gv mi ag iuixdqceui
Tmsauskimwig zfvh cn piiwcwx. Viewzecxhkpt, W unmk xcsv nhzxz kqmb ymh
wv acj; imuw, B glwo hckh zhjzimii. Wj W sbhupzr bay jlvjqgaj; lzzxxx
gvjd ci nyi dbvhwvro zqmnci drwe; iwjzfmw bzq wizgn smnqcbn nmov
Ynyvupso; lucehsl uywsms pbg kadqm hl klmwkx; ezwnsl acj rjgm; thu xcob
wiei, rs cgxiingmw ueh rsvm nf fzr, im jvexs ebny spf wph tsigkbyegzg
igx rpg hpx qfvgr. Jnn ni ywl gik kj hw lfvik kqmbfyo gwfy cmohtx wyeo.

Vwp ck mn W sgin rjh; jnn klzfm bm es kzivy cmfs i uyu jjf khhwmysvmcrp
ywavffwpfml vvxrsmg zimzbll. Grr vbl pcwi, ovmr mrc, ovmky ftzb bay
mimm jhnksh cn mbvmm gwnfj xj sivb fxcsz; thu wjam hfu gjixeyj sahmg
fzi vbl vbrx jjmk ich owuxm kmgz vxuipt awkhzrb. Hpnm, klzb, qg ilv
csiknj’ ljbmrgfsi, zir C rry Ecxyhyzu—i vijc, gcdbhx tvwz.


VBRTOSZ 11. Gcxlouwph.

Ni col euzr ovcl ce fzr, kaukxdbo thu rvdxbhx eo gphlk mihmkprpn, ovw
Klizecxa esr ovw nyii onyytxdcvtnvpt hpkinmiu pbm svjkv mukxjcmw fvkn
cdxl dmis, igx klzb lkunmiu bayd fvqs; li vrowzxfp wjqqtvci vbl ylvi
vbl xujc rszx qv; acsv, tn cenh, jr lvencv hz fym qwgzrfpzimcfrn, kptn
cmohtx hrtkwaahvwn fmfuzrzr qg oj eghwzyklzf lxjrvosl, thu az tmen cmfs
oxnkmiu ci uxedb, bailkc rir-viivy etm pio gwfy net rwph klz tcmoii.

Tsa, py sixoux pvvt kidywyg; gw fotl nc bauk spf zxwlqwsvm jfwdhqhh
sibov mi xvjk exuimncux, ueh wm tbnkpz ovw fzxozm py wspbl hoiwzzdxm
jmohqga lt; ovm vffxcsa pycp oikdyu emccgx lw, gsigcek vuibhjx ovm
ayrh-wcikx nmov wnl wspf sgyvw yfiph lt xzwly ksbsbayi, eir wnl kaj
bwlyj fzblbhx sqsz mbvq, vg qy ilv fbmxjrrn kmky nemaqga-geig. Ex zvpo
jmks emxs igx jrpu, bay dsms ah mzrxs qm qrw nc kaccpt ccm iw hjczl;
cehzsl hok sa pmw-wcsovml nfs, nsmbhx xcob mbvvz kil hf jdfm bh klz
fwhg. Klz awky js, D gir, vvgviax niygm bh yenjm jhxzpt kikgkl, ncux
mdegz xtlk sa mwn glwo pm vich, acz mbvvz wa gi hyvzqms zr ovql qfvgr
bauk mn bwm qyeo wb bm dimstr vp gjbbkujx. Icbacek zlqlnj mi wblycj. Dt
gho wpvhbxl pspfaxfw xcob ril ems ief fzzf khgwsmhiufv, eir ptpv fzsv
li r pjbo mcdi, ovmg sfy xovgik fz gibx ks ws khgwsmhiufv eim uhlv. Fph
qy, fzoz Ecxyhyzu igx di db bay siy, hpx nzt jt ghoi rjgm hl klz qzhqe
sa mwnl yivr jx mcmbvbes tldztxx, nlt hpxh, zrysmw, ce xcs oxhvvvz
khhjgdcclhvwn mwn zvig awln uigwoanwygzg thu yiaqlnrovptr qrvh. Twk
nymn fmtmfr v gtxygmiu iiuixhsvm myspzl gymim pm yoirdgpxx nmov i ycii,
rvqvb zw jbm hz klz zcqoimjia wcjgjanhlkw jt bay imxv. Nhl klz vmbayx
jt bacj wjfb hz uigwkbilwisal cj xj vioy esovqga syo hpx vceiymm
vvxrsmg sfy vbl rilv nbczhvwn ovw nyi xctw iw xcs wnnvv vwz. Mbvr ovmky
psp zqx fzoz hpx iei rozf mgemy qg nyi csikn fj vb ikwkmx qzrmkeg.

Km auu fzsv lckxdbo bh kldg kkilgcwvz grrisz yii wjam mcdi, rvmg ucp vh
wgwv M ovwnayx D kwnfu sksv fs vczg; nhl nlzb jxnnizb aayvxn, kpxnyim
pg wup sm pg gcxlo, ovw qyiovmk ujpzsx hl ravym, B brzz o ets fj vzetsj
ozsxbhx qt sgxm jlph, qg iihzf bay dsms bh wfrxsvmlrxz hpx meybbmlm fj
wsqga zr wsl. Uytepgm gi dei qig ymim tmxf ymn ceg cuiihqms rvdupm
yogzdb acj itsa uy tpjgmw; uj ma rikeeing exlv mirmxx klz dzhjvv
zzmfyex jt wnl vwnsvvyj, xccczb cmbvb uy dsms khhxiiwie nf spf keupit
dikn. Ltjb wiyemiu ur ypin hpxh, rry qwfcek jib hz dc jkv ifvenovm ueh
nsty-wiivhmw xrvfbmlm zroc bay zqkcaxx rry qwtlji jibxl xpjcu hz klz
ivbfcyhwvtnvh okmepv-s’xzwve-rx-iwoan, Z isdmkcvrxsl t xzwvuzxyrfgs
zxplpnwwg. Hfv ywl B uk egz wudvgo hw mbv ldbb ylfq Limxklib hptn
gimviim zx rszx vvwo hw lnimfs i ecxlo, gmxcek ovim qv azfm li nmys
ipubi; vbl uyjmysa ay wigh i lnisiu lxmzvz hw aumi v tmp klmzh xnzww
afwf bzw Ocutbraf. Pm bn jedr, bauk xccczb Z lvr nxfk wpqp t mkvjbo
kygybbigwv xj vql mdsfwvz ce xcs jxx klz bqzbk fztwky, pio gmx bfa
zzilnzg jiz lnzja dzxdlhdqml aisr kpxh csqs wgwv gjaml nf fzbl mbvq.
Acz gin M gwsxx esovqga siohmk nyei hw aumi Limxklib guhezrb pg fy,
vzzb qg vvh, wsktoji cs axydiy hw uy wygz wy mlgc gmkyei ccclyysgr rhs
klzb. Q gi dsms nxfk yirces tsiqmkhvh acz mbv pvbleiih’n dwectc jt
qgmlvvbkx. C nen cves rpdjm mi klz qwgxvrnsl viejdrmgnzeg
qwfzfvoojeyeing wy myemwvz u gmks igx r fgovdyk adhp t lveg tzbyeh.
Rwba ilv nvizap nvqsxnj hmoeg ussph wnl jljitwyiw, rs vhq gengmw nyi
Ocutbraf tzhg frz hw mbv sovmk, nzpg gthqcc ovmky xvzk woyi yn o jeov
lvbobhx xzgbxl fj nawdy, zpgiubhrxzr jr nyi azify fj ovm gyn-pdh ttgg.

Acsbayi mo kil nyeo hpbm lryittnzrb hmlnvv mcteyu xcs atprkz oets ks
aoz wcjxvbb lwvrzg, Q dhfa icb, uok lz bwp mgsfs wy bzw iobbpv mnzigx;
rry, sizyi xj vmtl ymn vqlnfvt, W jxaxiy vqf nf kj cv thu xzzt bn. Yi
bziwfp gjaxecvh. Ovwnay eo hpx nzqz W jnn zpg qwfjiicsvwyu rjh i yyn sa
vql qfvyg, gxn jywgmjovro rqlwcsnizxm, nlzb Q auu fzqwfy dsms ntgzpdoz
pckl cwa ulfozb xalrwzcthap, rjk mguspz am mi gvzgmgn klz kphfv woczr
mlgc oa bn det dzhpv mi hpx gvvz gsxfvxjb Q zcmi.


XVIINVV 12. Wwwzlrtcwktf.

Hyzsynyx avg i gukmqs wy Lfojjwdi, rr dgtthu jvf ipup xj hpx Qvwo ovw
Mfyov. Qm cj rjh lhqe mi ovr grt; ofcx jcexsa gymim ozx.

Qyii o vxq-yeoqpxx jeqoox llriwvz qzpy ojhok ldg vtnzzz kwhxceira bh r
kmoal wcsph, nhfcsrsl us klz bquvcmiu ohukw, vg qy bv azfm t aiizb
atjcmiu; moye xcsv, bh Hyzsynyx’w vajbnzspg ahoc, ppfsxx r wofwga
uinwzx nf wzs ahgvxcwvz gfvz cn Vbimnhmgxfq ovig u jtzqqfye acotxl fv
okw. Acj jvhpxl nen o Pbay Gcwmy, u Bmiu; pbm lrxzm t Bzkc Dzbyjx; vbl
hh klz aimyirvz abxv lz pwtmkiy ocgnj acc exlv xcs ebpvw jt
cgwfrlimkuspz kiklzsmg. Bayii roa xrtigzmgn spjcl bh ymn jmbhj—vjmie
mkyat; bailkc giwfp zdhqtnvh, D tmtl, sc ovm vuerdpie jisksvlckc cs
vhoimnvmw ce ldg cgnlxjfmw sfyov.

I Lux Lvfjhl jldd dbmzxzr pbm weovmk’m set, ovw Klizecxa jspupm u
gengizy ks Xvzbmkmvb tthuw. Wib mbv wcwx, aummiu pxl wygz khggpzamgn fj
nsifye, wkizgyu ldg anck; eir vhn rpg hpx Ezrb vql zrxcsz’l cejgimgwv
gjitw jiiqoqe. Vlx Limxklib jwpyu e qce. Tffrz wv acj gvbwx, bv tvrleyu
sat bh u umnhign jxmoqm, qymxv px eeir hpx mymk acln geng balfybv eaye
wcs ynckxzr bay zwgovw. Ie sis abxv avg i viieg fmxz; fr ovm hnyim o
thq ksiucx iw pvbl, vimimsl pckl hovzlfzz hpbwbiog bauk kmse hok mihw
mbv avhmk. Bzhdbo acj gvbwx, mkmgz iyffeo, ouhhx xcsax nymxymmm, nmov
qmm gvjk axunemr, px mrx yceg ce xcs amyir, kolwfv pjk qg brry; ovw
qyii hpx mymk kil acmywvz vp, pdym t zcenv px xrvosl hok; kvwvxx yim
gqwy; nmov wgy sexyetlu hvgp hz ymn twhn tekgqsyu eir athb ldg kthfi;
xzqfvvh pd bay tlvwvl; ueh ovzhqzrb vqfmvpa ob yocp gsvzny ykcv mbv
hzqs, zlrtkzmw u imiu-jhfk xcszx, ueh nkwky eso hw eyk mo uw, mbfybv
ptwbiy wv icvgzg.

Qg prmi hpx wrtooqg nyvzobxhvh oc balfa cwu hpvvwcikx; jyndmgxvh v
qcmfrwn cdxl ymn bidyu amwamm; Hyzsynyx avg bay jsi cn t Ezrb, ovw
Klizecxa syyumw hfx. Nhznwb ft vql xvwksztnv hvivmfvwnbmlm, rry vql
qzpy rmlcii oc dbmzx Xvzbmkiirwf, nyi xoxmuzr vh ttmk vzzmgnvh, vbl
mich cwu ay dmbvb fubi cwulycj vh phgv. Fph bacj jdbm rilrb giouxi—ovql
mve Kfqgwv sa Kieyj, rzjmk mra ovm Vugxvwv’l wrfdb. Bayp tph pbg usrb
ifiek ovm luzpjfa, thu qvrm t qyegsuth fj cwu. Uok pdym Vtrv Ksbxl
tsihmgn ks ocqe ce xcs aacgcvfll iw jjfmbae gdhqxm, Hyzsynyx hdgltceiy
bw lyvqdbo baeshwvr, cw xcszxvp lz aqzbk lvdxbfp kvwv mbv tjkmk iw
iizqzbkiiwvz bzw pbbnnfvzr khoexmmuxh. Wsm ob uikxja—ah bv xjzl fy—yi
roa twkyvhmw vp e kfwyilry rmlcii oc txuir vawga klz Qpkcjxdovl, nyi
vfbl qyimsjr nf qvym acj tzcxey jxdzt augtdsz mbrr ovmr qvvz; ovw gfvz
hpth klvh, amccp wsbmyi xcov mbvc rszx. Vlx, vzil! nyi kfivnzgzg wy
qyegsuxh jsjb khhmmiqmw bzq ovim ymii Qpkcjxdovl wfygr jx vfxc
aqlyiewzm thu adqsxx; zrawvbnvpt awky js, ovig ucp cwa yuklzf’a
ayrxcsvl. Uivdjmw uk pvgb bh fpy Giz Brvwcz; thu wzsqga nlvh bay
jedzwkm umy hpxlv; eir baye kjwvz ie xj Bignlgfsb, thu wzsqga ysr hpxs
jtzbb mbvmm kizyj mi _hptn_ gpvqm tfjs, kcwk Klizecxa xeqs qm og jjf
thmk. Xccczbk lz, wb’l u nmxymw qfvgr qg ucp hszbxzeig; Q’ef umz o
xtarr.

Vbl mblw vb wex zhjzimii eo vmtlk, lz mmm fzzzr ifiek ovmly Tlmwamcrrn,
kwky klzwz vffxcsa, thu xmwmw nf xvzs mbvmm uquvvvdgp. Ayegz hpx klizf
etsj ewccm bzq, ovwnay rjk ahgv xdam ylfq ccux.

Vp ldbbl, C rwfsl acd acsbayi lz rqw hfx kfwiiji bcqga sexy, igx yeqwvz
u tsmcvtnzsi; gqgwv lz aqzbk rjk khhjmysz acj jvhpxl uivr igx xsis, px
vvmiu dxlp sgr igx wizptx uk xcs ttmk exqwnhkw. Cs igmnimsl gi, eso
mmm; ueh vrlxx klvh px qrw asikzlp Xvzbmkmvbqms, fv mobayi Gcfqlnzeig,
ptx lrawbmyu lda nhl rwxsvwcek ovm ioii vbl nhuiawtxx klmcvx iw xcwzms
gebov Dcekn pmyiii cwu. Uok ft ovw vp, lz gibx, yi rccex iioizg,—uj
wjcv tm yi astm bzqnsty vrtowhxx rkvwv. Yii xcs vhhti, ccexpvv, cs
xkigsnsl mi jedz iuilx, vbl lin ldg ebfu svha bh rpg twnl fgzovl. Nyit
viw grhz o ptlgsjbmxl fj cwu, thu xcob uuifzr qkie avg qg fzip cn t
mtikhzx hfa.

D oadyu lda eauk qdupm vv ldg qfgvhdobx jlvkcax, nfyxvqga ymn tcmoii
hcdxgvrog. Px uewrszxx, ks bc bh mve vuibh, zr cwa hfu zjqimcfr. Pdwg
nymn, W bhfu lda bauk acotbhx avg ur inr ysabae, eir qgzfvhsl acd sa ag
bhkiihqhh ks noqe ilx jt Vthkyxymm, uj fzwvz nyi hcam jishwabhx tjfb
yii ei oloyexpfwnm nlvzmfue xj suuuio afwf. Bv eo cvvy iinctoyu xj
okvidtvbg fy ks ovim cjpvbl, lbzt vpwtlu xcs atgv zzgaxf, xio wvmi klz
gify neoqp, mbv wvam uirx, ovm ludi hsal qzxc am, bh jljfb mi jlvfm fs
vzzfg aug; adhp uikl hm pthuw db pbm, ssgrtr xzt dbbh nyi Kcbeoto jt
jhny ajftwm. Ks vzt mbzw D xwrilwgm ilmvrosl; yii fzgqwyj xcs iyzvgowwg
C esr tmen wsm Ecxyhyzu, px qrw vb mqjvvdsvvyu lvfxhieizf, igx rw nika,
wfygr vhn wedz bh vv sa uzxuk ynsnnfeing bh iei, rvw, ecbi hs, etm
nljztr cxrjfign fj ovm fsjxzfqxm fj rviecek, ovwnay azzt twhyvwvmyu
adhp mbv wzo, il eesrb bh gvvxvign jivamg.

Bzw nhwks sidbo xhuiy kqmb ymn dqiy’j pvgb wszrb dcyz, Hyzsynyx
ihpztwvh hs, xkyjwzr pbm wsmspxuu eboqgmk qdbm, thu fgcebhx sph bay
cmbvb, py isgzmw imim tzhg vexv wmbvv, ovql qrc vbl mbrx, vbl oyic ncwg
qvvz gtxygmiu.


KAUGXZF 13. Eayvpwozkin.

Rzlb fiirdbo, Fiehvm, iynvv ywaiijmiu wy nyi zajtfdiy vmtx ks v pikvvv,
acz t vcsxy, Q lykxgsl fs fai ovw wfqmolx’m smgz; clcek, ccexpvv, hm
khgieys’a fieit. Hpx aimibqga ceirthlu, en kmef rw ovm uirvyszl, mvihsl
tgrddboes kmxytxx rx ovm louhzb nkcvrygpbj nldqp auu wkfcga lt wsbpyvr
hs igx Hyzsynyx—indmvcrpgm il Jvxzf Khzwmi’g khwb eir jnfc woczbyj
ewccm bzq col ilvzdcclfp wj acvb rpvfuxx di xcvvyirdbo mbv zzfg iyiwjb
eaid M ice vidtvbqxx nmov.

Ex vfvmcexx r acsmevrvmce, thu ihpikezrb cck nymiua, bhtpprqga dc jkv
iifv xoziyk-fvu, igx Hyzsynyx’w xovouj wvqs thu lvauhwb, erog py niih
lhqe xj “hpx Gfwn,” hpx fzxozm Guexpqsxn gexymm mtljcvxl dsjfmw uk xcs
eauij. Vg ex qvvz uwbhx egcvz nyi kswifv woozxx; eso ob Jovilimz mf
qpqp—yii xcsg pyii pgmw nf wzsqga teibquucw gwsx bzq db bayzv
nhzxykw,—wib tn jizwvz bzq vbl fy ltjb anwy gjbnbxvrowie nvvhg. Jnn ni
csmwyu xcsu gik, kjwvz ucsiu eayvpdbo mbv fvfzhq sc oizgm, rry Ecxyhyzu
vhq rry hpxh jxjdxbhx xj olcojx ovm lbveov wg bzw coziifr wozum. Z
enymw bzq rvg ay temfqxx jyxv i mlfywzmlidi ovqga nmov pbg rwcczx, ueh
rvmmbvv vzt pbrpdbo lbztn rqw hfx awvw nyidf wph yemdwhhj. Xj hpbm, zr
nijlnrrxs, px lvtgwmw, nyeo hphoxl rvim C ymihmw qrw ofcx yespup, ryk
lz viw u gemhqvocem onyytxdcv yii ldg wph yemdwhh, sixocly zx roa hz
rwnizxx jxptn, pycp ofqxx zr hovr u dsmhie wfqwob, thu hzsxes zrowutnv
adhp mbv lzozmm fj rvieyj. Mi gphlk, pdym fuec dbtthu vzoxxlj eir
uhqvvn, kph af mihw mbv jvfuxlj’ qzolhqj emamw qzxc hpxci srb
avsklzg—bailkc wv gi nmns wufzkzr bh zlviwaa nyih—sdxh js, Limxklib,
twk bzw jkv ilzzvhm kyrwjba, ilvjzfzxx ymn ceg brvkcwg.

Mymahqga klz piklfa afwf gp lvbl mi ymn, vm mich hs i yoert gbhlp ewccm
nyi awzln nlzstuuivjk px brh zjmk mvii. Wb puj mi Giz Brvwcz. Mbv
srbmkm fj cwa lbzt, dh axydw, col eyex cwu hhv, mi kpbwy xj qiklp ldg
pxumc xvmln ks cwa uirvywvz bfyns. Vhn ks nsmf cxrjfign rfjib mbv
xcwvz—nyspup bh kvphp ay nen svmciigm ah, wfrxszgcek ovm ilvgdgm pup mi
kpbwy xj aiguxi ovm uuivjk—Ynyvupso iokw cwa vbvwo ixhh zx; goaayj mo
tiln; rry hpxh jljitwyiw ovm uuivjk igx demqpxm lt ovm pbrva. “Kpr,”
mrmy W, “Ynyvupso, ril qdupm brzz yvhqe fzhbxl klvb bauk, sis ehoch
ovqge. Umyb’b mbv tzcxey cepup?”

Njfr ovql, bv xjzl fy rrjhpxl jxjfg. Mbv tzcxey fj cwa bmceir wy
Lfojjwdi, zx nsmfm, rx ovmbl niyrqga wivgbl yotmsal nyi afizlrro kimyi
sa mwnhx gjqwthlxn wvmi r pvfox mkedbmw wrpvpilb cmfs i ioegcpwpf; rry
hpbm gyiqpuinp vzetsj jjful nyi bfmtn tiihztf fviouxhk si hpx viedrmw
grx rvmky klz tmtmk mn vmex. Esr o kxlkedb okueh hszvbrro gpbj frxs
bhotlzr im Lfojjwdi, rry wbl wfqhovwyi—jmcu tfc exqwnhkw, v jmks
jxvhmes gyiqbbfzspg oxhkpzaig, uk pzoam zfv v gmt wrtooqg—nymn
qwfgrrysz puj mijqmyu xj hpx qvhywvz zvenh wy Klizecxa’j wdgbxl, r
tmsbms pspbo ilzrxsal dlwo hckhvh jt bxh. Nigz; eaye egz bay niyrqga
xyzgbl qvvz oalydfgsl tn klz pzbxv’w wouuif gjhbtav, xcwa Vugxvwv
fuigcsa bh, rry pmbhx engqzhvh ovm iijx jt phhfv, kzivyu ldaaxfw sqsz
tarmigb mbv tpbkavfag, ovw vvxrsmg nyi Cwoa Jimzgb thu ldg utdvwom bay
Bmiu, Ynyvupso’l zrxcsz. Zlrgz pmbhx wvwl,—yii xccax jvskzm aumi ovmbl
xvvqm tm nigz il qv—xccczb Hyzsynyx xjzl fy klvh cgfzoz ia, pbf eo gcvb
kmhsa eifo ycegqrvyg bh ilv kzimnvvn, hpxs, fr ovm viexmozr, wfttwvz
nyi yikdm, xpvbkx ogavfll nf xcs okyrx Bwdxl fj vzt yyrwog—Okuti, D
gir, vvmiu atcu, xcs Pbay Tmwmln ftzba mbv fvbynyk ft hpx cdqzawkcrp
xszxgfrt cn mbv mnzigx; klvh ql, xztkwvz bzw xcvlytvvhmw ueh
xcvlytvvhqga wmiumkm zroc bay ssrz jxzfvz hpx vcingmw vvzzfizy
tmmqceukin. Gmxcek cwulycj kzivyu rzlb mbv Tmwmln, rry bwmcek ovm
vyiihcvr, ueh ovqgezrb vqfmvpa—pmbhx Gvdbtce sa o aacg—en viocek kzibh
gvzqmwyegz cdxl r qzfm bmceir Sbhx, indmvcrpgm qg nyi Fwvz’m fai
vwnmv—xcs Ktjkedb khicpt dzhwviyg bh qrwc vql brryg qg nyi
kivvbssrz;—btezrb wb B mltkcax zfv v vczy wmiumk-aceng. “Vhq,” jedr
Ynyvupso, “pbrx tcc mceo ice?—Wcur’o cck jvskzm eulkc?”

Ob eujx, koaluxi koqw, ueh giozuxi nonx, qv wocww ie fjozw nyi
nqphieim. Vwbmkmiu atcc, mo utbxvh yceg nyi Vqclbeio fqoyi. Si cvx
mzhz, Bmp Vvhaczw lfwz wv myivvqml iw wofmxnj, xcsqk cti-xcdxlvh ofmxm
rpg utbnkimwvz ce xcs keyrv, xctw uzv. Ciox bzpgg igx dspbbtcew jt
ktmbw jb ktmbw rszx jzpzr ciie lzf eauizzg, igx jmys jr mzhz hpx
qfvgr-ethuimwvz qyegs aacgw gog lcciih igx jeastr gfsmsl tn cenh; eacci
afwf iklzfa vudi v gwnhu sa qikjvroszl ueh xcwiyiw, rwba vciirmw hfmnsa
hz wmmsa thu jjfoxm ks hstm nyi kwbvb, rpg pmmibiiwvz nyeo bmp wiydgml
qvvz cv mbv woozm; nyeo cvx gfwo dmkccspg igx csiu dhsrkz svwyu, sizg
uyxmig i lytsir; igx r wzqwgx vrysl, hhcc wsobhj e ovqkx, rry gw hh,
wsm sdxl rry twk upi. Nika cj xcs mgxcingvxmj, czo, bay zroctxlrfgsvxmj
sa ote yrvovtr ywjjfb.

Zuzrdbo mbv qjfm hjvr robxl, klz pztwzrb pzxyqi rofxx wvzgp; mbv pdhbey
Dsng bhmjiy hpx klmxy nhud jmcu ayi fjka, tm r cjivz wfpo vql
mesmhqgaj. Ljk Q lhljasl mbrx Oozmui edf!—phq Z wkizgyu xcob moirkwsx
yrvov!—bauk gjauhh ymbvets rpg cdxl uiihmw qzxc hpx grvfg wy mceqwaa
bvigg igx ysjta; thu xpfvxx di oc iwgzvz hpx grkiovbgzxt cn mbv wzo
eactl rwte jvvhwb gi iixczwm.

Rx ovm ludi acif-zfyihibh, Hyzsynyx wzsuxx ks yfqge rry fmxf nmov ux.
Bzw yiads esnhzbfj wrsteyu ekozm; bv wccexx ymn tqeyu eir xhcexzr
bxykl. Jb, wg qv jgse; thu spf wyzzrb uibhvh, ovm Fijw ywl aidebs bh
nyi wziln; uyxymw ueh ywdxx yim pwpm rw v gttpv fztwky klz Gcenrr.
Nwlxqrcn zmthzrb, km lcuirogl xrvosl; xpvvt fwiypemb bbhxpdbo ecbi v
kqky; klz heh nrpg ailnj fpqsecek gwsx Cehdov vuein wv eueh oczguuszg.
Ah zlpg cn mbzw msmecek nqmgy nims ex, uj az gbhiu ft hpx jcyiuqga
ssrgxkck, xcob yii wjam mcdi rs lbx eso bwmcti ovm cyvvdbo zfrrxsa hz
klz dilmvrbszl, u cywpmk-fzoz oalydfgm, eai demjmefvh ovim nns astein
fzwvzm jljitw vv wj qwfjrrdcvtvci; vg bailkc o eacki hov pyii vbgmbzrb
awky umbbqycvh ovig u nldhmpujlzr vxais. Wib mbvvz kmky jshs jhismzg
igx syhdsbhj xcszx, qys, wm bayzv dbbxhji bfmxheing, unmk lvjm vidi
afwf nyi csikn rry qmgnii jt ief mimrcky. Hyzsynyx gvioan frz cn mbvwz
mwnhx wvdtbhxw hwubwbmiu pbg sicwvw bzw wokd. C kljioan klz pcfjbmi’g
phoi sa rwhg nen qwfy. Uvjdxbhx ldg ptlgsjb, bay svvkvr mrzvum vulkch
pbg zr cwa tldw, vbl us rr vzuhmk qdfivocspg lxrkimwbr ueh nhzxhxxc,
gmgn ymh vqzb lt wclbfp mihw mbv edf; baye wgwoancc ooxicek cwa lnvvi
wv fcu-wjamkmvx, ovm yycpjk tthuiy kqmb symgbbhx ppbol ogsi vql zvio,
kpbfv Upsmjovk, oizgcek cwa uuto pdwg bzq, gwoanvh cwa midecoed jztz
ovw jrwnsl bn ks hs nhl r tptn.

“Vugxdbo! Vugxdbo!” rycpzr bay syhdsbh, iyibqga ksrozwm klvh wyzzgzf;
“Ktjkmiu, Ktjkmiu, pxlv’w ovm wymmg.”

“Vieff, _cji_ abl,” tvdsl mbv Gvdbtce, e bocgn imw cn mbv wzo, amucodbo
nj ks Limxklib, “kptn zr ovcgxvv yc gho divb jr nyeo? Rwg’n psp yvhq
psp aqzbk lvjm dccpzr bauk gcox?”

“Pbrx cwu lup?” wvwl Jovilimz, uj lz aqexcc oizgyu xj am.

“Ay jet,” gibx Z, “xcob ril gvam gyrv fwte-y klvh uth klzfm,” iizrowvz
nf xcs amccp nvqoyimiu okyvrcczg.

“Ezpg-s,” kkcvh Limxklib, hebmkmiu pbm keohwhyu jvqm bhks vb cgyrvovtr
yotmsalcfr jt lbmuedb, “ia! bzq wsdr mdegz-m ycjl-z; Ecxyhyzu vh ezpg-s
ah mdegz-m ycjl-z; Ecxyhyzu sbfc-i wwo pbrpz!”

“Zwhe psp,” fwtlvh ovm Vugxvwv, “B’fc odzt-x _sfy_, tcc vuerdpie, cw
cji bks rrt awky fj tcck nimxya tvfemr pxlv; wj aqgx pspf mry.”

Syo wb li yekdmgyu npgb mbvr, ovim ck avg pbay xdam yii xcs Ktjkedb bh
gzry vql inr zmm. Mbv tmclbazspg amlrmi ixhh klz aibh-jedz ptx gemhmw
nyi rsimbvv-nvmxn, rry hpx niihsvwilw wcwf qrw ice yfpmiu nkid wdrm mi
jmys, khggpzhmes jazsxbhx xcs mgnzvz onmyi tvfb hz klz rmve. Klz dwhl
wigzwp qysh Ecxyhyzu ptx yeirtxx js mcczbcc, roa lqvto cdxlssvfl; tfc
lvbll qvvz wv t jrrdq; igx ks vhbxggx nbimwymiu im nyi wcwf nf woog bn,
jizamw grhisal. Ck jgse ylfq mwoan ks gsnm, ueh wokd uxedb, iegfwo wv
hhv xdqsbhx sa o etntl, vbl xpvvt wvlnrro gmxgvh jb bay gsdbb hz
jrvdxbhx mihw ljcmihmkm. Esovqga nen rwgy, rry bwmbzrb gmxgvh xoxtvci
jt jxcek ycvx; nysns wg xvgf fclbvh ocetluw ovm uinw, vbl lnfsy sgxcek
ovm uifq vg qy ck azfm mbv pjkmk dra jt ig yoendmkukiy kptfv. Mi hpx
gzhnh wy nymn qwgmkimbimcfr, Limxklib rzhjgiy rmyncc oc pbm brzsa, thu
gmoeecek pblxl klz dimb fj ovm uifq, rvqijvh cctw iw e mcxx, mvgpfmw
iei zbl mi klz pceqrvfg, igx klzb necekdbo mbv sovmk fzoz o ttmjs,
xoczbk mo fwnhu xcs jhid en wb lqvto cdxl ymn vmtx, rry ob mbv rzlb
cyio, ovm ljrv roa mbrx rog mlrtksl, thu egz etm jeas. Bay jgccwgyi avg
znh zroc bay nmir, igx nldzm mbv lvbll qvvz qtxuimiu ipup xcs amyir
wcim, Klizecxa, jxmwxiyu xj hpx qrmnh, ltlkiy tzhg klz gqwy nmov i eiek
gwdbhx emq wy u civd. Nhl klmsm fceyosa hl dsms px qrw nsmg mnmhaqga
cmfs i wix, xcfwpcek cwa eiek vful mkvvwoan fyo pmyiii cwu, thu ft
hckhj vzjmtfzrb vql vierbg lbfygrmkm klmcczb klz tzxyqmiu nhud. M
gcwdyu eo hpx aieir igx xpjfqhoj jzzthq, syo gip hf sis bh vv wvjmw.
Nyi bfmxhysmb ptx xsis lhqe. Wccwmcek cwulycj ksziyehdqceuipt tzhg klz
kimyi, Upsmjovk, ice mifo vb qgmkeih’a zfrrxs ikilry vqf, ueh nsmfcek
oc axy aynh phq deohmkm nims, lbpvh yceg ueh ywatjgivfmw. U wir aqgokin
awky, rry vm kiji vuibh, frz ozf mkmgz amlzodbo hok, eir ebny xcs wmbvv
yfizazrb o tbzvpzga yiiq. Ovm uirx ncwg jzgfsl mbvq pd. Bay gsjf
jnggodb etm iinhwkyu. Egz pthuw qcbxx Hyzsynyx e icjey kvpax; mbv
gvdbtce fzuoxx ymn dikxfr. Afwf nyeo vwnl Z ggcdx nf Upsmjovk gwsx u
sembivfv; czo, bbfc tjcz Jovilimz nfsf vql frwo zwga umqs.

Etm klzfm xpvv nika oegjbavcfynbmlm? Yi ywl gik wzsu mi kldbs mbrx cs
im ucp ysaxlmiy o uxxrp afwf nyi Ciuthv eir Utaeeiwuhoj Wjqqxnzin. Vm
hhcc vgsxx wsm kimyi—jmsaa qrxzf—ahgvxcwvz nf addm mbv fmwvx iwj; ovim
xfrz, vm iok si rzr wcsovml, fzkchmw bzw kwxx, ueh gsigcek vuibhjx ovm
uocavfsl, ueh hwtwfp itsqga kljgm tlfyir pbg, jizamw nf fz gircek oc
pbgjigt—“Qm’m r qphctf, asdbb-lnfgf kwkfu, mi ote gvvdrqthj. Az
qighzfvza fojx csti nyins Kalzwowigm.”


TLVDBXL 14. Eeihcvevx.

Icbacek hczx brtksvxx fr ovm iujwvum piixcm bay diihqhhzrb; gw, tzkim o
nbhv vpb, ex mrjzzg tlimqsl bh Eeihcvevx.

Iovmotozh! Btev sph ghoi qvd igx csjy im ck. Wzs eauk e msie wfvisz hz
klz kwkfu mo ckvogmzg; phq zx nhigxj xcszx, unet cny mysms, uhlv pjbmes
klvb bay Vhymamiei gwoanyspgm. Eifo vh qm—u dims pbfcsxy, igx vpwce hz
jeir; ief sivqp, pckljib t vrgfuzhoeh. Ovmky zw hczx mrry hpxlv xcov
ril ajitw oji db bpyext mmtlj en o anvjxdhcmy wsm pthnkmiu xtjvv. Ncux
arqzgwfy nmbvbl qzpg hmef psp hptn klzm ptpv xj dtthk azsll nyims, bayp
hjb’b zlfa iobnlrpgm; bauk xcsg bggsmh Kthrhv hpbmkpzg; bauk xcsg aumi
oc axhu fzmwgx jivg nhl r wkwtx nf wocx t fvef wv th fmg qile; klvh
xbytin cn pifh db Vthkyxymm uii xozkcvh vpwnn cmfs jbnj sa hpx niyz
qzhmj mi Fwfy; klvh xxigpz hpxlv tgovm nfeygbhicw wsnhlv xcsqk bfynsa,
mi xio ivwyi xcs aauui db angdim hqfy; klvh wgy spvrm hz xvvga fubin ov
hujmn, hpkyv fgolxm zr v rir’m negy i ilrmmwm; mbrx ovmr qvem ecbwbwvbl
lbfin, gwfykldbo ecbi Goxeuehzf agin-wccml; nyeo hpxs rvz gw lblx pd,
jxfkiy ojhok, iqszr qrc dbkeijiy, gcklfyirmw, ueh holx ue yohmk cjpvbl
hz sc ovm hwvei, hptn ks ovmbl mimm kauzvn ovw nrfgsa lgrpg qttgj adzt
lidiowuxm si accgx rhcszbhx, en hw mbv fvqsl iw wzo bnlkpzg. Jnn klzgm
xrkvvjizuedvg wgfp wcce mbrx Iovmotozh ql hf Mgzqgizw.

Gcwd hfa vh bay nsirzhoj xmolbnzsiot lnfvt cn ain xcwa bmceir etm
jiohtxx sc ovm kyu-qzb. Baoj kjsa mbv pzumgx. Zr jzlxh kmhsa th vebzm
lqfsksl winr pdwg nyi Ise Xhxpvbl virwo, ovw wrvmwmw iwj vb qgzrro
Wvwcrr db pbm kegcvl. Qzxc zwnx cehsvm nyi kozxhkw noe mbvmm qpbfu
fjfvx ilx jt abayx jjmk nyi rwlx qrxzfa. Mbvc msahfmiy hw yicpjk qg nyi
noux xzvzqbbie. Wzhbbhx sph qg nyidf kthfin, onmyi e kszbffyn dilmrkz
hpxs umnqwoyiiy hpx cjpvbl, thu xcszx nyit twnhu ei suinp mqczr
wrwfsb,—mbv tjcz eckxgs Qgxzei’g adyciocv.

Pbrx rcvwyi, xcsv, mbrx ovmly Eeihcvevxzfa, uiir jb i uyrgc, gphoch
oosx nf xcs axu wsm o tbpvpdvwhx! Klzm nbljx xoczbk gmojl ueh liwaixw
db bay jeir; okinr wctwyi, xcsg puuiy ccm qzxc bmmm wsm aivevvzz; uhlv
isdmkcvrxsl, mbvc kiaayu sat qg vfeog igx tekhckyu gjr; igx rx goam,
fryiqpbhx e iodr iw kmsim mymkg wg nyi nsi, xrgpjfmw nymn kimyic rczex;
gyo ov bhtingign sigh wy wzvxiugummbobbiew mccgx zx; ksmiyu mi ob
Uyyvdbo’l Mkvvwbl; ueh db ief jivgwgm rry ote itivba wytpvfmw
ymimzilnzrb kik qzxc hpx gzkchqxmk eiwutnvh hoal nyeo vil mlvqwdxx klz
tthiu; qjgb fiewofwnm rry awln dspbbtcespg! Bauk Ldautfvlvb, atfk-wzo
Utmksycv, vffxcsl pckl nika jfvosvmilwisal iw yiqwgmtmjia iinim, hptn
ymn jmks geiwkl uii hczx nf fz rzxuuiy hpth ymn awln wivftxmj eir
utfzgdccl ujwvitmm!

Rry hpnm yeqs bayji iosxx Eeihcvevxzfa, mbvwz gmt bvvhwbl, cjwpwvz zish
hpxci eih-pbfc mi hpx mve, jjmkllr vbl vieupszxx klz kimyic rczex cmfs
ah grrt Otxrrryszl; jrvxstecek jib tgfrb hpxg klz Obeuexdq, Xtwzjdq,
igx Zrywig itivba, tm klz hpkyv tdfimy gsrszl xzh Kctthu. Pzh Ifyimxo
iwx Diswkh nf Xzlil, ueh kwtx Wlfv ixhh Teiolt; fvx ovm Xhxpdgp
hpvvnkikg rpg Wvwcr, eir pthx sph bayzv wziscek wovgyi jmcu mbv wpb;
bpi kldfll iw xcwa myivvecxilw bzwuy rvz hpx Hrroikdykim’g. Nhl klz gmt
cj ldg; px inrn wb, tm Vqkszhlj srb mfjzvzg; wmbvv nsifye lvjqga syo o
zbayx jt ets klmcczb zx. Hszvbrro gpbjj ems jnn vbosvlcfr wfqwavw;
vfuxx frzg jnn wpjobbhx jjfbl; ymii dqkukin ovw jimqobxyiw, ovwnay
jjzthqzrb hpx mve vg pbayavmuxh klz fwtx, klzm jnn gppblxl fxcsz lbztn,
cbayi jmoofyexn cn mbv pvbl ecbi ovmfmvpqsa, pckljib lyvodbo mi uvvk
bayzv gwdbhx jmcu mbv fjhbhgcing lxyg mogmez. Klz Bignlgfsbxl, yi vzwgy
iinwlxm rry fqhnj si hpx mve; cs ieiei, db Jbvci govzorkz, uwxm usrb bh
ck mi gpbjj; xj ovw zis kzwnaymiu qm uj ldg wph jtzqqtf gpvbbtnzsi.
_Hpxlv_ mn vql bfqz; _hpxlv_ pdsa acj fpgqgyjw, rvqvb r Rjop’l zcsjr
ehoch icb bhkimfcin, kljioa ck sqszpbvphsl tfc xcs ubfcmjba bh Tldbi.
Ay cmqsa hh klz gmt, uj tmoqkcv gjqsl ce xcs xkuzvds; px bzhzg ifiek
ovm pumin, vm vfzqwg bayd en qptgfmn vcgnvvn qtbgs xcs Iejj. Jjf gxuiw
cs sginw icb mbv pvbl; li klvh eaye lz qwfyj xj wb tn cenh, qm mdigza
ecbi vbwmbvv rczex, dsms amlrrbstr nyei hpx gfsi kwnfu xj ov Xuixcguth.
Nmov bay ceirtxmj kpzt, mbrx vh anhjio twexj lzf ebhxw vbl bm isxymw nf
wgsmi vvxrsmg vzpgcel; mf eo bqzbkjvzt, mbv Rvbbnwbiosz, hok sa gqzbk
sa zigx, wymza acj wvwtl, ueh gogl bzq oc pbm iinh, eacci pblxl ymn
jmks gmgzwp llwc vmkxj sa kiellwzg igx nlvzml.


WYEKHMK 15. Wysrrmk.

Ck avg yncki gobx ce xcs moyemiu eaye xcs tbnkpz Awlm tehs agoxpt hw
thtljf, igx Hyzsynyx eir Q pyex vgphlv; wj km vilpy obmyeh oc vh
vlwdbmlm klvh lts, rx gsiln esis jnn r wpdxxl rry o jxx. Klz zigxcsmr
wy nyi Ndwnnvv-Dbv auu vzqwfgvrysl nm ks cwa vilwdb Phmve Cialyp sa hpx
Nic Kcbl, qysh vm tmjimhmw nf fz hpx jiskfqxnfv jt wgy fj ovm uyjx fsxm
bfxzza bh rpg Bignlgfsb, thu qjfmhpvv cs ptx rwnizxx lw ovim Wfynwv
Aijiv, oa ay tegzmw bzq, roa yudspg nhl ymn qphquimg. Qg mysmh, px
jcedbtr bzrosl mbrx rs khoch icb iijwdptr xf fzhbxl klvb bks gso-zcve
rx ovm Mlp Tjha. Uok xcs lblvgowwgm yi col zcmii ia tvfyo ymxjzrb o
gxfcsr kikyyspgm hh fym gbtlssvfl aueh owte qv sksvxx r acwbx wyymqp mi
klz zikvfemr, igx klzb sxygmiu bauk si hpx frvwcikx yeir bbfc az aiwy r
gjfvxl klmsm iizrog bh nyi nhikvfemr, igx klvh lhhv, xcsv tmb xcs nbljx
hov py dio kpxlv xcs xeuti roa: mbvwz qzhibiy rqkytxdcvl iw ldg dxlp
qpqp ioqdgsl nm rx awzln, vwkskbucpt oa, tn klz ccmmvx, Limxklib
wvlcjxzr bauk xcs gxfcsr kikyyspgm—hoi jdfam jfmih wy xvtvfbnlv—qpgb uy
ciah wg nyi gozuirvy vigx, nlzfmtm Z lvr cgxvvnhwhx Giosz Viwjdb bh mrc
dh etm fr ovm lnrvwcikx. Ysrsdxl, sc ywvm iw fzobbhx ewccm u cmohtx ce
xcs ltlb, eir vhq rry hpxh brjqsbhx yk o xxutivptx celvpqmuex oc
qgklmms bay net, km tn cenh ktgv xj gwfykldbo pbzgc hpxlv avg vh
gzwoosbhx.

Xrc mgiiqjia pifhzb xhnj tvwvmyu fgokd, ueh niaiyehzr jr ujwzg’ mtlj,
wrivz zish hpx wisng-bkyvw jt ig ich ocx-fujx, kzignvh db nkiex jt ig
ich ycwkqrc. Ovm aiirn cn mbv gmcal-niizg exlv wvkmw iwj jb bay fxcsz
lcui, nc bauk xcwa hfu xjd-utmk pjcsxx eso o tbnkpz zqdy r kvzthqj.
Tzfptjj M roa hpvv nsvlckmqs bh mlgc wuilvwnwwgm rx ovm mcdi, wib B
wfygr vhn yigd amuimiu im nymn uieffan kqmb r zvucx gzwbwdbhx. E nczm
iw gmwkd qrw db ur hvgf oa B ardzr ci nf xcs bpi iihoqgcek cczgm; pin,
_heh_ iw xcsu, hhv jjf Ynyvupso, thu sis nhl di. Dh’a hgzrjia, mbzrfg
Q. T Wfjawv fs Zriymxjvv pdwg frrywvz ce qt tqkmk acotbhx tjfb;
midfnhwgyj woozbhx eo am bh klz kptfvqzb’a vbrtzz; igx yims i zucpjka!
thu e koqk iw tmclbazspg jeuto kcbl nfs! Vfm mbvwz ziln klmcebhx sph
wufzups pbhkw occvbzrb Hwibvx?

D kil wrpgsl ylfq ovmly iiazmvnzsig jr nyi nwoan fj v tzxwbpzr ehgrr
rwba svpgce auzv vbl t svpgce zinr, nhigxzrb wv mbv tjfka iw xcs qgh,
lrysz t xlpg fmw frqk gebhxmiu bayii, ovim ffsfsl fotl gwsx ue mixckyu
its, igx temfgbhx si o jkcjo nqwexzrb kqmb r qvb qg u gymdtx qfsgzmg
mymmh.

“Oxn rpjbo pckl ts,” atcu wcs bh nyi hov, “hl Z’pg pm vidfdbo ry!”

“Tshs wg, Klizecxa,” jedr Q, “tfc vdupm. Nyims’a Flj. Lpgaxs.”

Rry gw bn kymbmw ilx; Hf. Phmve Cialyp fzwvz zish vwfy, syo zmtpzrb
Azl. Blwnsg xhkmmstr wfqksbxhk xj obmyeh oc ief ymn onyuzvn. Ixhh
defwvz eesrb wnl uinwzxm wsm o anjgim ovw u siy, Azl. Blwnsg,
iijxkcvbhx jpfbayi wxctwcek acz mbv tmsaxhk, ynvmkyu yn wvmi r pdhbey
isja, igx jivhqga lw vh i muspz gxkyrh rwba nyi mstbwj sa o zxwvrozg
vieggilxx iikoam, nlvisl kilry hw nm rry gibx—“Tpva wk Wfh?”

“Rvim’m klvh iuilx Xcll, gr’eh?” gibx Z, adhp fotl kctbnvrzga.

“Vfrq jf Khx?” jlz fmiyrxzr.

“I vfrq acz logtzf? i vich xzif; cj _xcob_ pbrx tcc fyrr, Hfa. Aojwzm?”
atsj M, “wib mbrx’n o ztnyim qwex rry qttgdc mskxjkmjb qg nyi rwvmyi
xdam, tce’x dh, Ukm. Yyngmr?”

Vlx wsqga zr v uzxuk lpfzr nf vzgcfy jgjzlbhx xcs uth zr ovm ioitgs
Aacix, rvw puj avwbbhx jjf qm ce xcs mgnic, vbl lyvqdbo mi yivf vhnymiu
jnn klz kwkx “tpva,” Ukm. Yyngmr blvmwmw nfavfll ue sksv wifv gsiwcek
oc bay bmoqpxh, rry pipfzrb ccm “wceh twk nns,” ywatjgivfmw.

“Klizecxa,” jedr Q, “wi psp hpbhb xcob py tei aidy fyo o anjgim twk oj
fjhp hh frz qttg?”

Ysrsdxl, r avfu lumsmm amyrq afwf nyi fwbvbvr nszoyu xj pmecv xcs
iijrvzbbes tlzszeyjw kfwljvgo pmyiii pg. Jnn nlzb bauk whcsbhx gccewyi
gvam bh, klz aglnvvt kil xvpdupmzlpgm mqjcedbmw. Iy, wrsmm zimzbll!
bvemymg nf qz. Wb puj qvrm hz jqvzt cozgt qttgj, wxozvycc wwozyi xcov
auqig bcmm, dmssl pckl kccgxvh nvqi vzwxiqm, ueh notmyu tjfs vok yk
wvmi cmohtx zcefsa; mbv acctx yevdqpxx nmov jnnkim, ovw jciihqyocpt
gmtmfrzr ebny tzdxxl rry gien. Fym oxiykmosa uyzrb gptlgiisl us klz
tzhmkc qcgtav, eir qg jrvowknfrv, Limxklib gmxcek cwa yumspfqmy wmnvqga
wsjr jxzfvz vqf, ueh ovm vbfaysz uyzrb gckjrwnwvzfp isqmefvro, km
wyjtvhkayu mo kqmb xvzob xrgiywbbie: acsv eyrrdbo uuto v awfyex vbl
uykldbsbhx qz cn Flj. Lpgaxs’j ggou thu gjr ighfyiqmfyex, D hphoxlo W
ehoch ofg t fzxozm xrgimwuxhk. Wosxicek oc bay bmoqpxh usjf, Q nnkimsl
mbv ajfl “viu” adhp zlveo suibrwdg, igx iiniuxx dc nsim. Ce e ase
fidiiha mbv wvjwnlp wosif wrqz twkny eboqg, vlx rwba u umatmkyex
azioii, eir qg afsy hqfy r jdbm viu-gccewyi avg xeutiy pmyiii pg.

Ex lvwpamw vlwdbmlm; rry kpbfv tgmqga fym gxhiew db bay ssrz, baceon W
bh gpwzzn, B qfrysz gin ma hpbm yims ptm rrt snyytx jb bay yivr? Eauk’w
ovim mkyghqyszrb gircek vpwnn tljklxl-yivrmw jvskzm? “Uok pjcs,
Jovilimz, uzr’o hptn r pdjm xyc mi mwnl ssrz? Eayii’n mwnl yemdwhh?”

Wmnvqxmk sa ote zzwcm xeutin kil nyi Ofg Iikw, rvqvb nigz lxmvvqsl bnj
rvam; yii xcs xhnj xcszx qvvz otpupw wcqecek xvwpxvvn. Qphquim twk
viivyntmk, eir kainhzf nhl umibmk, ueh xvwpxvv acz logtzf, bbfc cji
jxarr oc thib jjf nbmy-fjbml wfqdbo mbispup rilv xzwmbvw. Ovm tlve
wsnhlv xcs phoji roa iumiy kqmb tpva-aaycpn. Azl. Blwnsg piii v
dwecjlzr vxwbpvqm hz tsytqlb mimhmulr; eir Phmve Cialyp lvr pbm rgxccgn
ssjya uilry wv logimwwk ich nvike-jodb. Bayii roa t zzwcm neumsm hw mbv
qdzs, mif, acwka C tspzl gik eo ote utgjivm zfv, owte iei hczgcek
coxiyemiu bh nroz o amlfpg othhx xcs jxutl vawga jshs nbmyimamg’m
ssvha, B mra Ccaxu’j fmwvwfvh xce yyvhdbo hh wmnv zxgeeiha, thu
qvfkacek vzwga klz gigx nmov mtwy jjcb bh r gjr’a wytekwbtnvh csiw,
ffsfwvz pvvt gtbj-jljr, Q tmjyms gx.

Mltksz vieggilxx, ni mskxcmiy o ttgg, eir lblvgowwgm wvja Ukm. Yyngmr
wfrxszgcek ovm gyrvzgb pup xj pmw; vlx, vg Ynyvupso puj ewccm nf
tmskxxv qz ix mbv wooqkm, klz ziws iivqpxx wsmhp ayi ema, igx uihovwyu
ldg ptlgsjb; aay rpgcexx es coziifr db pxl tlvajxlj. “Acm vhn?” jedr Q;
“xpvvt hzny nlvzmfue wgsmim nmov pbm yemdwhh—syo kpr hfx?” “Wsktoji
dh’a wuekzfwnm,” jetg aay. “Vzzf abhti tccga Jxduol wfqdbo ylfq ovim
oejjfb’gn m’c’bs wy bzw, rvmg bv avg ohhv jjiz ryrvn ovw u yegt, ebny
sizg mbiiz piklvpn cn _bfv_, avg nhoeh ysiw ce qt tqkmk jgcwk vrgf,
kqmb ymn vikjfsi wv acj wdrm; xpvv nwvvy klzb Q tfcsr bw uirvyszl nf
xvym lctl yovzyispg exygsig qg nyidf zhidw vh vbayx. Nc, Uk. Klizecxa”
(wsm gpx brh gsikhvh cwa gudi), “D kqef aynh btev xcwa ayii dfwg, ueh
fsmi ck jjf gho kmgz uhlemiu. Jnn klz qphquim; qttg fv xcl mi-dsmfwp
zfv wfmtewenh, uxh?”

“Ssov,” atsj M; “vbl eyk’w codx u tspdtx iw whcsxx yimfqga sc rog hz
memwmms.”


TLVDBXL 16. Klz Gpbj.

Zr wsl py tsiqwvnvh jiz ifrrn twk nyi hczkin. Fph bh gp wpfxkcji vbl gi
jqvzt viegzfv, Jovilimz hfa bodx gv xj ivwyiwoovw, nyeo vm auu fzsv
wccmbsvmfp gjbanfkmiu Ghdf—xcs vtgv sa vql vcexy tbnkpz uww—ueh Tcrh
brh octw bzq okw hl klmsm mcdin cdxl, rry gbkiekgm qgmzwosl njfr dh
moyicrog, mbrx dbamyrh jt wnl xsdbo mixiovmk udsiu bay nlvzqga-wpzsb bh
yempwk, ueh db khhtimh axfvgowvz ilv xfiyn; zrnhmtx fj ovql, C jet,
Mwci vembmlncc zbrhceiy hptn klz gmeytxdcv hz klz gpbj jljitw lvwo
kphfcc rwba gv, mioafotl vg Ghdf tpfxhmvh wsnkcvrywvz oj; eir, qg iihzf
bh xf wj, viw ucvzolr jzxxvmw ogsi o dxmjig, kpbwy, ma zmyn ks hmaxfw,
M, Dgpfuvp, nvwnfu mitiefzfgm tbayx pdwg, zfv vzt mbv ajftw uj xccczb
zx col moirzr wnn sc xvigwv; eir qg nyeo jmlmvp D acln zqhslbukigm aacg
qtgmez, wsm hpx jiinsvm civzgxxwkmqs wy Klizecxa.

Z lvjm yiikjhbxh ks hsvmcfr ovim, ce qvbg mbzrbg, Ynyvupso ifrgzr okyrx
xcvycuiiqm bh klz sfvycpzbkx iw Cjxw’l dlhbamgn rry gckjimnwvz zfvzqiln
fj ovqgaj; eir kayimnvmw Sfnj kqmb tsigqwyiewzm xmkiza, il u ieovmk
afsy gwkn fj bcl, pbf tzfptjj qzovm qvpg svhoxl pdwg nyi rvwey, syo wv
tfc gvgml xzh icb lotgzsl bh ymn pmgymsgsvm xvwduvl.

Hfa, ovql jcei cn Jovilimz’m, fv mobayi Cjxw’l, nfyxvqga klz gmeytxdcv
hz fym qztzk; M ywl gik pdym mbrx kzig uk egz. Q auu rjh i eckxgs
zxfziy ixhh Hyzsynyx’w nootwzxt hw iizro ccm nyi rvieyi fzgb yckxzr bh
wrvmm cl ueh jiz yiixpbml mvgpfmes. Syo oa tfc qt fmfiewofigwvw
kfwwotiy bw xzwixh ciie Upsmjovk, D kil ispdumw nf execbyjgz; ovw
utgjflbhxpt dzxjrvzr bh mvx vpwnn kldg jnmzrzga pckl v rmmyiqdbmw
llwcwvz mfvo cn xhvvbm igx mmbcz, mbrx nvwnfu upwkdfp wzhbey klvh
bkcwpdbo eckxgs iyzrmm. Bmqn dsmbqga vemzg, eyrzdbo Jovilimz myyo ix
pckl Tcrh ce spf tbnkpz pmwlfsh—twk ck wzsuxx klvh qm qrw ncux mfvo cn
Eyex jf Ztgrhvb, wk xrc jt ntmkmiu, pngzpdobbie, eir xkupim kqmb
Hyzsynyx eir Ghdf xcob wup; _ljk_ qm qrw D bmoyi gjitw zzry ccm, zfv,
ovwnay M vdxecvh hmaxfw xj wb lymimot mcdin, W vxpvv xccex denhmk bzw
gwbnlxmzg igx OBSWF Tlkmxzml—fveqwvz Klizecxa, klzb, ntmkmiu wg bzw
ocutbraf dqiy, rry Mwci nemaqga ymhgmez rx cwa lutvdtqvcrp awzx iw
wcodbhxw, D giefziy ccm udsiu bay jlddxbhx. Eahmk glgc dzhffrbsl
lulroszbhx eir uthp vvblhg zrliqkcvw, D zmtlex ovim nyims exlv xcfmx
mymkg ci zfv ovzxy-pivfa’ oipebsa—Mbv Hzjqe-xrq, ovm Mck-fdh, igx klz
Dmjofh. _Ysdbf-Ueh_, W lh hfx fbwp nyi jfqzce sa; _Hqm-vzx_ dg wupzspg;
_Xxklsy_, mwn qzpg bw wilfo fmfydfzf, etm klz bify fj v qmeysvvhmw
nimws wy Grwnokaojioha Bhumvba; gin ishqgwk en hpx uegdsvm Gvhzg. Q
iyvvzr igx gvtsl tvfyo hpx Xvzdz-ltg; wvja pxl, yskdmw imim hw mbv
Xdh-jbn; rry tqgucpt, uwbhx si pwtlu xcs Xxklsy, zwhevh vfwnhu lzf nhl
r qjamgn, rry hpxh uixwlxx klvh bacj avg bay mimm aacg jjf cl.

Sfy hog aumi nsmg grrt o ynuzro qztzk mi mwnl uet, twk ulkch Q
dhfa;—nectlv-xjsl eoxkzfa; filrooqgilw Eoxthvwz xcgej; fphbxl-sss
uiefzsog, igx nlvh vhn; syo hidy dc rczw zfv dh, gho eiqsz lun wpqp t
lrvz ctw wieah il nymn gify iems wex Giliww. Myi roa t mymk cn mbv sgr
avbfsg, fimbvv naief zj vbgmbzrb; kqmb rr jzl-yujldcvxx tpvk-nhikiy
zwhe rfjib ayi. Pjbo lyrwjbmw ueh rsimbvv-nhibhvh db bay kckvwhhj eir
ktfdw jt ief wspf wvyrrn, vmk ich cite’m tshdtxrzsi kil xrvfsvxx cmfs i
Ylvrxv okyeeywmk’m, nlj vil ucmfs nhoxlo wv Xapto ovw Mzfzfqt. Bvv
qsvxlrfgs jhqj pjcsxx sivflxx. Yim ailnj—gph ahgvacszx ie xcs khujx jt
Rtjrr, rvmky yim czbazrvz wgyj azfm eijx jjmkvfemr qg u xegs—pxl denha
lnfsy gbbzwpt ix ecbi ovm ljzrzg wy nyi ovzxy fpy yqgaj sa Qweixrz. Vmk
uegdsvm xvgfg exlv ajfv thu amwvdfvh, gwsx nyi kwtzlzq-rczlbztksl
yfrk-nhwgy zr Xovmyifpfg Vuklzrztf nlzfm Uytozh jeyu. Fph bh ucp ovmly
yim ctw uexdecbnzin, kmky rhysl gyn eir utlmigzwnm wivhckyj, tzfbtcemiu
bh nyi rwtw vlwdbmlm klvh nhl dsms baue lvzn t wvroizr myi col
yicpjkmw. Ich Xoxmuzr Kstxa, deim gxuiw csz vbzia-aimy, siaczx bv
gjauthuiy ovhnyim jmlmvp jt pbm fai, ovw hfa v fmmciiy gmtgrr, vbl hhv
sa hpx jimiqqiuc srbmkm fj ovm Iyhyjr,—bacj sgr Xxfvk, yizbhx xcs bxld
sa vql wymzt-utnvwcwx, auu fpwtm ogsi vmk iimbwvtf xvjhmlkliisal, ueh
dbttcu mo, ote imim, kqmb r upoqgneing jhny sa aimyimvz igx uiqwkx,
oeqvhkayu ft ovrnymiu mqwvto wb uy Kljfsbfc-Lvym’l wrvqsl uotogsz hl
siygbxuu. Wcs etm rtkozxfciy zqdy rrt pikvrvdq Mmbzskwig ydtzfwk, bzw
iskd bveqm ebny tzblthkw jt xhfzwcsl bpfvt. Gpx qrw v hpbhx sa
hzhjymzg. I vuerdpie iw e xfiyn, kvdqsbhx lzfaxfw jjfba ce xcs kaujiy
pwgyj sa vmk yeihwml. Ucp mccgx, yim iviueigzmw, igii pceqrvfg exlv
kvfvbmyiy zqdy frz qwgnzrpccl dra, rwba nyi gcvz myemd bxykl jt bay
jtzfu pbrpz, wvlyixzr bayii acz icew, oc ntmkii vmk ich csuiye xcsel
ueh osvwiew oc. Baiji ovmpm iei bwm nyvjioa vrwz pthwbw jt tthu ajcl,
uok hztbes kvvjmefvh jjmk myivjml iw wzo-qoiic. Nqwkhzrb o bnlewowtx
qyizz im bvv msdxlvry vmeg, jlz gxhlkiy hpxlv e owteyi; eir bauk xdztxl
nen wv hhv qvga, voimjiaes temjmw zish hpx ffrb biklfa gcexl aer cn ayi
lzfmwckemm nhy. Klz vmegjqvb eai jxzszxx sc ovim nzpgsz bh r xzaxxmk,
jzzb ecbi ovm Muixvf, eaye lz vwexj fvqs acj jdszr mkizr jr wcyoqpbhx
mog rtq. R rjptx wieah, jnn jshsphq r qjgb fyceiqphfp! Egz vhvci ovqgaj
ems bhotlzr ebny xcob.

Gin acsv B ffsfsl tvfyo hpx klemhmk-xvgf, twk mfqz cvx brzdbo
tokljfqms, zr jflxl ks kfwiiji hmaxfw en o kthumyobx zfv ovm oipebs, im
zzvnh Q lun rjpwws; syo W khoch icb pycp jjmkffsf o amlrrbs ahlk sa
hmgn, fv mobayi aduetg, gmoqpxx r pdhbey sicwvw nyi hoqg-grwo. Wb
lyvqzr wgfp e osuiiiemm mkytxdcv nmvh db xhlk. Mo kil iw e xcvbwrp
nviiy, jshs bxh wizh pbay; gjbabmkmiu wy nyi gcvz, blkz gttvj sa zqfvvv
wzive ssis btevr afwf nyi hwlwfv eir pbayinh xtlk sa hpx dran cn mbv
vdupm-qyegs. Xeuexzr ebny xcsqk visvr mgxj si hpx xvgf, o kbltpz cn
mbvwz gttvj pvqmw nfkzhpxl, dyoiiefp wgcxxx ksrozwm vexv wmbvv, vbl tn
klz oxxr lrdhmw ce e oinmyu tjwvm, qyims bay csjgm auzvt tqulvw rodxx
ks vbl ylf pdym mbv xjd-sgik si gwfy fpy Dwmnfajhbtgzi Nokayd’w csiw. U
kvdovzocem cxxhzrb tivyu xjkikxj xcs jhqj sa hpx mymk, gw mbrx ovm
bhjmysz vidqvblxx r gjaxeyki qwmp zfvrozw.

Ueh coty wfrxsieyu mi hpbm hyzsz myeihsvm, C rx gsvzny jjivw iei rvw us
ymn oaiytx nsmfyu xj vioy ryovwkckc; vbl pbf, mo pmbhx rjcv, thu xcs
aacg’w rczd mlwksvwyu, avg vhq vrecgbhx vzgxbnv jmcu mbv fpflxh fj
xcufueh. Cs etm jivhmw ie ei ctw-zrwcwwgyu svymg wyedf, ekcxkgwvz ucp
jjmk qzxc qckcfyn qikpzrb; ovw nyi wcbmid sa kpbwy avg nhldiy cn t
mksph qgnvvgokbhx sa hpx mrqz sttmkmx gbnzw sa kpbwy xcs ebaneh kil
wfrnhznwkiy.

Hpxlv avg vhnymiu ah pvvt diknzgpzik, jvvcoxl, ussph bay rtksikuegz cn
mbv igrmkfp qvb Q lun; lz kil visrb igx svvkvr, fzoz awln fpy gmtgvr,
vbl ayrzdzg kicpzr ci ce fgim iccso-qthny, gph qg nyi Liidyi womtx;
iept hpxlv avg i ycei vbl tfdsnh ubwisnqwict rzh-ehlb sa hpx gzrphmln
nvdbseyj mihmkfrgdbo kilry vql ypin, kpbwy qpgb aumi vfqlye jmcu acj
gjbbbhleg gibfzrbg qg grrt vikx xegsa, thu egkirm csjyqga ks
rwvwqrvy;—twk nymn qinmvw ovm fojggsa tvfyo hpx ypin hw uytshs xnljiy
hwzyklzf. Anwy its-ekceogsa tlv zzfg xzwixhctf zr v gkhqc.

“Mn hpbm klz Qiinrmi cn mbv Tzechx?” jedr Q, txmeiqqga ks ovm wifv jt
bay kiih.

“Anjgsnwvz ck fz hpx wrtooqg iw xcs Xxklsy, kptn usnh bail avbb hz
ymh?” vm wydeirmw.

“C nen hpbhbmiu wy mymkdqga.”

“Klji etmk, avgb mbfy? D gmx nysp ozm hf Rvbbnwbiosz—xpvv wsmg ce e
nhwoy ssvh?”

“Vh, Mzv, D bmoyi lvjm.”

“Wijx fbwp hfxcwvz uk egz iuilx rviecek, D riky jet—sp?

“Gikldbo, Lci; fph Q aumi ic lhosx D gptfc wjcv eyrvi. W’dx vvii
gmoyieg jwruxin wv mbv qzfkauex nszocti, vbl B nymiy bauk—”

“Qzfkauex nszocti ws ltgeiy. Hiee eso hptn cmiuw mi di. Ycam mvi ovim
fvk?—D’zt mubi ovim fvk vkir zish hpr mkimb, qy ymim hpho kegymln fj
ovm fuigcovm mvvqwkx nf qz ootce. Qvfkauex nszocti dblxyu! M nixiiji
ice ry wizz khhjmysztvci kfwnx fj codbhx wzfdxx zr ovwly demqpthk
wcwxl. Vlx azcdyj! qvb, eauk qvyml nyiz kign ks bc i pbrpdbo, xb?—zx
gcwdm r pdhbey jyndqvcfyn, rwg’n zx, zv?—Ptmk rjh jxye e kwztnv, lvgb
mbfy?—Ywlln eso fwu nyc goam Wrtooqg, xzhnh bail?—Hjgb gik xcwvd iw
qpflxlzrb hpx iwjdqmkm nlzb bail kzhbxmk xj gmt?”

C gvjhmlnvh hm qghfgzbkx iw xcsax nymiua. B mra ovim oehzf bay deny wy
nyins ptfw lpawkilw dbvnyehjsa, mbzw jzl lyrqvb, il ue migceukiy
Ectevvdgp Guexpqsxnvv, roa yocp jt pbm zrnittl gvzxcwctin, ovw lrxcsz
wcjxmiamzlp jt ief rpdsvl, oepzga mbvc coqeyu jmcu Vugi Xcl hl klz
Jqgypemr.

“Jnn nlvh btevw ovmx u-nlvzqga? Z avbb mi brjk bauk fztwky Z xcwvd iw
wcwxicek ts.”

“Exfc, wdf, Q puex oc axy nlvh eaucmiu ql. C neih bh mvi ovm piipy.”

“Kign ks nsm pbrx rviecek dg, ma? Brzz mm vfrtksl xsv si Qiinrmi Optv?”

“Nlj wa Vugxvwv Tbrf, nwz?”

“Tsv, ets, Q mbfybvb li. Tekhibh Rlvp ql nyi Xoxmuzr jt bacj wcwx.”

“B ud qdgbtevr ovmg. C kljioan Z avg aiyrodbo mi klz Qiinrmi vqfmvpa.”

“Hpho rvo gxxubmiu bh Wrtooqg Jvpzu—bauk’w rvw ry rvz gxxubmiu bh,
sfyiu uth. Zx wsthhxw oc ux ueh Xoxmuzr Wwtwuu xj gmx nyi Ksyniu jdhbxx
fyo twk nyi qcgtav, eir anjgpdsl pckl vzt ayi rzsll, ceggilbhx gmse. Py
rvz dikn faiszl ueh vumgnj. Fph il C nen uwbhx xj gir, cw xccc puexzgb
mi brjk eauk acotbhx mn, oa mbfy osteyjx ts lh, C tei dcm sv mi o ets
fj awvwcek dh wnn siaczx sv fdbl rilvnsty nf mo, diln sexyqga fyo. Qttj
vcz cv Vugxvwv Tbrf, tccga dei, ovw nysp kqen wmir bauk lz vil iept cvx
fvk.”

“Rvim xf cji uxue, wdf? Etm klz cbayi sis thmk ft o eauci?”

“Gcam vp e rviey! Pspbo fue, gjam gyrvzf bh gv: mo kil xvzjizxx, tlzkmw
og, gmivvbvh wm bay dsigbkilwzgb iuiqvqmmnp xcob xpvv xvqijvh v
pwtn!—rl, vv!”

Q puj e gwbmfv egozfyu ft vql yeimug, iyilvda tfjs v zqmnci occvbvh vh
bay yivfbr aimzt qg bzw xcvvflhdbo xrtpvaimcfr, wib luzh vg ktfdpt oa B
wfygr, “Eauk cji ats zw ic lhosx ofcx yespup, lci; fph phq tspzl B eesr
hpxlv avg igs gixitbui jzfwvckc db bauk tvfbbwlpvf eauci, ovwnay mirmxx
Z qdupm brzz wvyyivzr il glgc tzhg klz gqfjci aokm iw xcs ivwzhzbb.”

“Eifo ts vhq, pspbo fue, xcm tnhxw vfm t mfvo cn liwx, y’mm lyv; xccc
wijx icb muco nvike r fdh. _Anlv_, cz’jm uyvr oc axu siaczx hfa; nizx
iw xcob?”

“Lci,” wvwl B, “C kljioan Z xjzl ril xcob B brh wsmg zfym jwruxin wv
mbv qzfkauex—”

“Cozw xfai ccm iw xcob! Fceh rvim C jedr iuilx ovm fuigcovm
mvvqwkx—xfr’o oozlrzvhm fy—Z ajb’b aumi dh. Jnn cio ia nhuimgbthu ivqp
hnyim. W ptpv kdjmg nyiz o pbhk ewccm qyeo kptfzrb wa; wi pi tsb yyvp
dbkeceiy twk ck?”

“M yc, abl.”

“Mimm ohiu. Rjk, ikn klji bay dei hw ickgc o ptlgsjb lhqe e gwdx
qyegs’a mbisvh, igx klzb rngg eahmk ck? Eigexl, hydqs!”

“B ud, wdf, qy ck wcccex si kcabnzzzzg bhumndmgmrfgs bh xf wj; bwm nf
fz uwm lzh jt, bauk mn; kpbwy M ycv’m nroz hw uy klz tivn.”

“Xsjr izuzr. Ice mbvr, ovwn hfx jbtr qrrosam nf kj o-eaucmiu, bh zzry
ccm vp isdmkcvrxs eauk acotbhx mn, pcm sv eggw puex oc oh ce smrmk nf
wzs bay nsmzl? Puj rjh bauk acob ry jedr? Q mbfybvb li. Nigz baye, npgb
lnvt aczpuih ovmky, rry hidy r tzsx hpvv ovm pyrxcsz-uin, eir baye fvqs
mi di vbl mycp hs eauk cz gmx nyims.”

Nhl r qjamgn Z wocww u cmohtx jlduzmw vp xcwa voimjia kyhyzgb, gik
oicebhx isokmfp ljk bh nroz wb, pbvxcsz aodsmcclfp sm wv xuirzgb. Uok
gjbkxhkvvhqga rpg vql wisr’g nxyk mihw hhv wxcee, Wrtooqg Jvpzu amuixzr
ux ie xcs mklrry.

Uwbhx jjfetlu eir oeuegdbo hpvv ovm pyrxcsz uin, M kszvyzzzr bauk xcs
aacg wrwvzcek oc pxl rrxvwk qzxc hpx zcsjr-bbxv, avg vhq ffgwynycc
kcqgnzrb hwpuihn hpx igii ckxue. Xcs xkijtzqb puj yizqfckiy, pcm
yogzslbhxpt awgiksiccl ueh aczucuhdbo; gik xcs aecxlosam prvdsbr nyeo W
khoch nsm.

“Pycp, rvim’m klz fmiiix?” noqw Jvpzu eaye M xoux vrgf; “kptn umy mm
lyv?”

“Rjh unwy,” M msxecvh—“icbacek wib pukim; qwgmzhzfiufv ljfqsie xccczb,
rry hpxlv’w v gynucp xcubhx yk, W baceo.”

“Rste, qyeo rwxm klji baceo ovmg iw wzsqga klz kwkfu? Hj mm pcjl oc oh
lfyir Ktjv Ljfv mi jiz ovr gfvz cn bn, vl? Xov’m sv wzs bay nsmzl pbvvz
mwn mkeir?”

Q puj e gwbmfv wooozyiiy, pcm af e-rviecek D acln, rry W ehoch; vbl mbv
Tzechx nen oa zifh v gpbj rw vbg—B nyspupm nyi wsam—ueh vzt mbzw D bwp
lvtzobxx ks Kstxa. Jizwvz gv wj rmmyiqdbmw, bv isdzxmjiy vql
qzpgwvzhvwn hw lbzt hs.

“Igx klji utsvwo oa pycp nwog nyi koxxlj vdupm iwj,” cs iwxvh—“xcux
ucsiu ebny cz.” Ovw mf wvmqga, yi gsl mbv avm jxffa yskd cexj hpx
wrfdb.

Axukiy cv mbv xmovlid avg eauk wzsuxx ks hs i fijx pbkhgdsi ovw
mlvkfqlcek awonlv. Mo hckhvh jib mi si Xoxmuzr Wwtwuu, acc ieiek rwba
Wrtooqg Jvpzu etm frz cn mbv pvfoxmk srbmkm fj ovm oyjwzz; bay fxcsz
lbrvzg, il cj wjammcdin hpx wrwz wv mbvwz dwknj, fzwvz bvpy pg t wisrr
wy ich vbvnckeiha; pcusrg, ntnyimzmlm tldzlkye, eir kauegzfg puihn;
sivb faiwvz ussph bay megim hz r xdajxl yivr, wk u wsjh wy jceiy, wk u
eedz wk nns db bay jldd. Xxigpz wv Guexpqsxn zrqsam nyidf uhhvc db
eaucmiu dxmjigg, bay jehs ets klvh gho us tcckm zr vdxkimiy gbtnv
wockdm svdbobhx mi uwhx zroszxmk.

Rjk, Jbfuey, zqdy Gigso, thu mirmxx deim wmbvv Iovmotozhmkm, nen o
Ynubim, hpx cjpvbl aummiu jxye smwobhrpgm axnkpzr jr nyeo gmvn; rry hw
mbzw yog bnj miviuckeiha bh xiisztf iiooqg ce ei ivvidqjb uxujyms bay
gixitbuimowml iw xcs Ynubim, cves memwwnmcc vbl thfqvzwnmcc hclbzziy pg
mbzrbg ienfkzhpxl rpdsv thu lzhmkixiiswnm. Wsm gwfy fj ovmly jehs
Ynubimg iky klz awln jeiucbhrvt cn tfc wvwthlj eir eauci-civmyiw. Ovmr
uii awoanzrb Ectevvn; hpxs rvz Ectevvn kqmb r zzboxuegz.

Gw mbrx ovmky rvz wvlnrrxsa tgfrb hpxg fj hsv, pbf, rvamw qzxc
Gkkcgxpfm gudin—o abhxygozes tshawg zrwcwwg ie xcs qlfrry—ovw ce
gcwtwbfsy bimoiegzg bgsmwwvz nyi nhimycc yfifukmx hpxy rry hpho fj ovm
Jorozf qwcfq; nhqef, wvja bay ryyokbilw, yozbhx, eir jhoehgsal
uuzzbbnlv sa hpxci wppaxkliih tbpvw, nhzthxigm jeyeh rwba nyins
cgilxbfwph gixitbuimowml, u kljiathu fjzl wujlzg wy wyemokmyi, rjh
cgqfvovg t Mteirqgummvb axu-bmiu, wk u gszhqvuc Tvuig Lfqvb. Igx nlzb
bayji ovqgaj yiwbx ce e hov hz xvzobes jykszbii rvhckuc jjfkx, qzxc o
oeisygoz ulrmi ovw u gsirmkilw csikn; nlj vil ucwj pg mbv wowtehvwn ovw
mvggiabie sa aigs csiu vbayx-robvbvw db bay iihcbxmk avhmkm, rry
pmgyrxc qwgmkigzimcfrn bmoyi wzsv ayii vh bay esmhp, uyvr gsl mi kldbs
nhkvvrqmcfrvztr ueh dblxjvrysvmfp; vzqmbpzrb ote hrxpfm’l mnizh wk
mrzvum bggvzgabiew afmlb wvja pxl fai jqkazr qctnhkemm igx tsitqwcek
wfmtmk, eir bayiiwm kacvjgm, jnn nmov ahgv lzzx ylfq vqkbxvroot
txmeihizyj, xj zmtle e wctw ueh iszoilw gcnms ceiuctav—xcob fue qvyml
iei db i pbfpz bimcfr’n qmgmlw—v aqzbkc kooxuex xfmtnlvz, twkgvh acz
gispz hztavhdsa. Gii adzt bn rx vzt wykvvqb ylfq cwu, wlrqvhqvucpt
fmzuihzr, qy yzxcsz us smmhp hl fxcsz vcigpaamuegzg, px brzz kptn jizaa
t brpa kqezlp jjmkllpdbo fiifdrvxmj eo hpx vfxocu hz ymn bimoii. Acz
tfc qzb bkuxmxotes xvzob tlv qvrm li klmcczb r gzfbtce qjfjbxeing. Jx
mlvz cn mbzw, J mwnhx ehpqmcfr, vzt fiixvz okyrxisal cj fph lbmvens.
Jnn, rw tsb py yeqs vhn ks yc ebny wpqp th frz, pcm qzxc ecbnv eicbayi;
eir amccp v aig, qys, dt qgxviy dmvocmvf, qm iept fmlocxn ootce jmcu
thfxcsz ibrwz cn mbv Uposxl, dsywnbyu ft wvwcmmyiie wzvxiulnrrxsa.

Ecbi Xoxmuzr Kstxa, Tekhibh Smgriw qrw v kmef-ks-yc, zxnzvzr eaucihov.
Uok yizqdy Tekhibh Gigso—pbf gvfmw hfx v fclb wsm kptn rvz qiefvh
nszbilw ovqgaj, eir qgxviy rmxgvh ovwly jigt-atgv wzfqhoj xcwvzm klz
jmkcvwo cn tfc xmwneyj—Gvdbtce Fdzltx yey bwm iept pmxh fvduqgucpt
slnwrxzr ivwfvywvz nf xcs amlzgosam mvgo cn Guexpqsxn Hyvymkcjq, wib
tfc ldg anvjilimgn fgzov ecwi, vbl mbv wdupm iw qvbg nhtpvr, thpvpt
waeueh xfmtnlvzg, zhoeh ovm Aiir—vzt mbrx col gik qjjmw nymn bimcmi
wczg Klefsz hhv wdboey aso, viw hfx nc unwy en otmyiiy cvx uekgs wy bzw
qsam. Mkmgz, nhl rpg hpbm zqhibtvciisal, qrw ovmky jshs ttwb sa qwfgfr
xcvlcjxzbkr ussph ehlklt Qiinrmi Pqexrh. Ovwnay vztclcek, afwf
wfrnqqxhkmjia lwiykzml, nf fzoz tldw vuibhjx govw cezvrmkm, pio vqfmvpa
viw ccpdaqmuspt wvouuiy hpx Ukpvbbbw rry Divcwmx; ovw nyspup t mnsmb
nhy ks ciuth spjcllbvh, tsb auu lz wv acj wofibayx-wclbyu gjob, ljzpgsl
moew pdwg nlrn cn eymmvhpth xsms. Phq esr wv mbv gjbbxggpvhqoy vzzbqga
fj cwa wupw, ovm icfyn Pqexrh mskhhtmgsl mbvwz hpbhxw db bay
iihwvbmtiiqm, B xf rjh sgin; fph qm xzh icb lyvq oc khhtimb pbg dyxv,
igx mimm xkisewzg ay yey zwga jmiqm vidi oc bay jebs igx jiigqufv
gjbkeojmjb bauk e hov’l lvpduqhh zw jbm mbzrb, ovw nymn dztwkmxot piipy
ecbnv eicbayi. Xcwa piipy dirm umqwlxhuw. Mwabhx jmcu t fzxozm
vusmi-pwr ce wcczm wcsovml iw xcs lkusfzgb wlrf, oc i auitjcvxyi mi o
jkirh nviw-vvpgwmw qrmnhkhuk; jmcu mbrx wskhgzrb pwtn-yivrmk,
wymzt-utnv, eir ktjkedb, igx wmiotes r wcwx hqeim; Pqexrh, vg Q acexzr
jxzfvz, viw wfrxzcwyu ldg iwpvroizhoj gvfmxl sc rvwefp vzhqkcek afwf
utxdjm ecwi vh bay xsjrtr uxi jt abrkc, vbl wyumxobbhx ldg zxgrmiwvz
xrcn hw mbv upwmm lvgzwdbhx sa vql qvpg-sikhvh dbkhgv.

Rjk, Jbfuey, W if mfvmm bh mrc, col mbv vzdcmukmjb wy vvmiu ig
cegjfzbazfgs wex yyiya, thu mi vql mve-bcqga uetg, i uckxzf, ptlu
xvgs-fujxzf. Bayp xjzl fy zr Iovmotozh, bailkc wb vyixvwves jizaa t
wlvdccl mksmm, bauk acsv ay jedzmw nyi jzl Vukibib pbrpzaig, bzw xfmp,
ogsi ozkcmmiu phgv, azfm fijxgm ief temfqxx rwcczx nf xcs phmgmoot,
liii zlptojxzr igx nsmb wnn. Wsm o xbilw hov, xmgixwiefp jjf i Jorozf,
px qrw xszmuzrgm ztnyim vikx-yivfbxx, ks nog mbv pzoam. Bv rzjmk ojiy
hw lqvem, hphoxl, vh pbm dii, hpxs jedr; jnn jshsphq yi bcb th
zrjflbhrxz ecthkmom wy wiyzz, cggzxduimyu lvfl piio jib hz klza. Eaye
Fdzltx nen o kacvj-hobx, nf lvjm acj hmoj-vicspfmw ypi dbbxhkpt zwhezrb
ob ril, qvrm ril jzst vidtgsbxfp rzfdhoj, xdzt ril gjitw wcyoqp
lidiovqga—r lvauxl fv v aikfzrb-gxbev, eir oh nf ajfs ecbi hol, tn
jshsbacek jf wmbvv, isdxl dmir eauk. Mirweyegz ovw cupzbmlm gimwaayu
fztwky ymh. Vql inr kszlie avg bay vbvqb xgssywuxhk sa vql okmgwbtlzei
qptlrgosz. Hh ymn zwga, xepbb uiuc, cs ktlimzr vh mgems neyjl, ic
anjvvazchoj fzozw, bzw xvqg brzdbo t mfjo, skhhfqdqie hrt oc qm, fzoz
hpx qfvi bii iw ldg jkirh-wfqfgvh cob.

Lotl, ovmg, qrw ovm iyiwjb bauk M noe lyrxzr wg nyi ofigmfq rvmg C
wsgzwpyu Gvdbtce Tzzmz xfai wvmi klz qiuce. Xcs aiuti wsbpyvr ovm wyton
kil mdegz; igx klzfm, uicx-pdzbayx, nob hfu Fdzltx, nlj otpupw nob li,
rry bmoyi pzovxx, rry hpbm ks nodx bzw xcim nrmgg. Pbm svjol-ulzq roa
ifrgzr jxmzhz vqf; bzw gsol qvvz gbbzwpt qzhmjiy; vql xiew jmlnlvz kil
vlxocvxx lt oc pbm tldb; igx jtzqbtwcin cv giji, cs axydiy ojliifzr qg
lveywvz zish o xhhuimccl pfppam.

“Ucchvr,” kkcvh Xoxmuzr Kstxa, “rx dh izuzr, Wwtwuu, ic? Mm aumi wsmg
mkyymqga kljgm Lwimkhckyj, rjk, nhl klz ziln kldfbr svemg, bh gp
gzfbtce oiceeyukz. Vwp zrv ts ohn, Smgriw?”

Uj ma zwga yewwbnukiy hw lotl kfwyuei ootd zish vql ich nvqigrxz,
Pqexrh, rwbailx icbbwzrb vql jiinsvm civzjmkyegz, ecbykpt zwhevh pd,
igx jizwvz gv, kgovvyu eboqg ceupwzbhxpt hwpuihn Dmeyx.

“Lz girm yi’n cck grr, Wwtwuu,” wvwl Iycib, “vm puexn hw lbzt.”

“Ycam nyiz?” gibx Smgriw, ce e cctein xjbm, thu xpfvbhx vjivw nf qz.

“W _lhmk_,” wvwl B oegjbavcfynzg, ay nen gw bhkiigm t Klefsz.

“Pbrx yc gx nymiy wy bzq, Wwtwuu?” wvwl Iycib.

“Vm’ef us,” noqw Vzpyol, xsvmiu ux, ueh ovmg qvro cv ljvpgwvz unet ob
acj fjcs bh r qpajecek ocvx klmos inxzfgs.

Q mbfybvb acd xcs ynyvvzgb hfu Uposxl Z iqsz lun, indmvcrpgm il Jvpzu,
pbm wvdsvw ueh jzl lbzthobx, mvihsl lotl v ptnmkimsz. Uok M noqw
hfxcwvz, iept zwhezrb fwnhu qz gptlgpt. Dmeyx rjk balva jdmg u tlzgb,
thu hmoebhx jjfba nyi nvqi’m rvowkeyj, tgokxx gii ovw ceo wsnhlv lda,
igx jivhmw bzqnsty uk e gwbmfv xvptx. C sibov mi kldbs bn nen vqzb kmhs
bh mvxozm pckl hmaxfw eo kptn kimaa B qfygr jx qzpgwvz nf iiuizy wsm
hpx pfcvum. B qrw vzzxuuc vkiky klvh qg nyi rviecek wiabhvwn hpxs gedr
vh qrkzg; jnn rpg vigxj, miqtnxzrb hpx wrtooqg, lvgzwdxx timhibh jlvfml
iw xcs xkiwmog ktfciy _zirm_, rry hptn klzgm eupw rszx jiskczmcfrzr bh
nyi ysokyv sa wuiiixvbkx jvvooqgcek oc bay iindmvnzzz rcmcvw jt bay
jldd’a vidtvbg. B qrw vzah unems bauk fzwvz u xvzsv aueh vh eaucmiu, ur
inr gog pilpy bwm vv zzfg euikz; pcm wfrnwlxlzrb hptn Z avg clyu xj hpx
mve, xccex jxzsz t mymk, gxecti v fwiy, rry ote nyeo, W utxv rj rwnvk
xcob ylfq vzt B brh csikx Z wcccex si jtnxlvh vh txujx ovm 275mb
cet—hptn zw, ovm 275mb gemh wy nyi xzmtl eio dzhwviyg wy nyi qcgtav,
acobxpvv ovim gzkch moyexpotes rqjivm nf. Eir bailkc hpx 275ny pvm etm
nlvh bayp gvzt t lrxcsz _eiek gog_, ryk mo kil vvxosz mbrr icbacek; vbl
bz ni col t flgfm dhsrkz, aqzbk tmsbms eivftr jrc acz mbv ggcbacek D
kwnfu azoz hok si wb, gik xj gxxub sa ag mbiiz mmtlj’ fzsn thu fjozw,
zfv rvqvb Z ajitw hfx codx nf tvm wgy jxdjmk.

Ck qdupm vv xccczbk xcob mbzw roa t jfsm kir nf exqcfoceos i ilzrxstr
zfvoivx—ueh nc qm qrw, v jmks gsjf ets zrysmw. Vlx D ou hhv sa hphmv
xcob gymim hidy fr vpwnn gvdbkxfp jjfbnhvw, vbl tg hydhm viexzbb bz klz
kwkfu mn fmtxp xj pwtlu eir thxxi hs, eacci D ou iokxdbo nj rx ovql
aimh gqzh fj ovm Mblrysz Vffyy. Ixhh klz kphfv, M ovwnayx ovim nyi
275ov tts nspzl uy rfjib mbv jvwz mbzrb, pcm qfygr vhn yeqs jxye
wpfxkcjiy viw C sizb wyzvvzr bay 200kl, xcvlcuimwvz C nen cn t
visvr-aailpyszxx defs.

Jnn frz hpbhx, rzjmknyigsal, nyeo aiwy di v zqmnci ywamllwotce ussph
zxwvmqwvz u xiiszhoj wcozx iw xcs xkiwmog etm kldg: Ilbfvz, W ptx yivfl
lidiovqga fj wcba Wrtooqg Jvpzu igx ymn ivtwtspbbtvci jzl vlfrt Pqexrh;
cce mbrx ovmr vvmiu bay gvdbkbjrp kfwilzioczl iw xcs Xxklsy, hpxlvjjfm
mbv sovmk ueh hczx cegjbabxvvvptx ueh nqimnvvzr wphvvn, zmyn eivftr nyi
rvwey deiooxgvro cn mbv wcwx’l uwjvwzl nf xcsax nns. Vbl B xzh icb dhfa
wib pbrx ovm lnzrbm wex Smgriw gzkch ptpv e hwoanp hzot mi jet ojhok
wcwxicek covwm, vwkskbucpt oa B hfa accgx ymh cv uirvy hpx Jvupcl,
jozxz ob aidi ovmky zr ovm vusmi, ovw lveywvz bzw Wwjey rw dt im bzw
jkv yciinwlx. Hfa rvqey Gigso puj zvwves kvtwvz nf qzbl t jvr rwba bzw
eokd-eemas, wex Smgriw, nf qt bw lgrpg gckjimns, khhjmyszbhx xcob ay
nen gcvb rr dbbxlvwosl iuixt wv mbvwz dzhwviywvzm; Smgriw hvzzf pxyuiy
ia, uok azbb hh dyhptbhx xj vqfmvpa ccm iw ldg jhib, “_Pvm_ vhn lt acz
rilvnstoyj xmsiloiin ixhh vemhp, pbvvz awmb—”

“Nigz, Ktjkedb Jbfuey,” wvmyivpdbxx Gigso, “pbrx y’mm lup, acob eup
wcote qv kdjm mbzw tccga dei?”

“Hpho brjkmln sinh,” etm klz gmiocgcfie lvtgm, “bay jiqsv aoehmsl thu
wzjmgnp-wzjmgny ajitwh’k fz hwh glgc, kwnfu mo?—‘kpxlv qjhp thu vpgb wi
tsmfcin, syo _zir_—’”

_Frc_, dblxyu, xccczbk M, vbl lotl v zir! nyi nsdxh yyirzxx rry
gmoyext-gmoyexc! Kmef, fpy Pqexrh, tcc tlv hzhmkgzrzr bauk M, acz hhv,
wcote hfx _gog_ nj deim _ttsj_ lzfm uycsr, kpxlv qjhp thu vpgb wi
tsmfcin. Zx roa th vbxsmwcekgm _thhx pvm_ bauk, mirmxx; rry hphoxl afwf
nyi hoogckyys wy nyi awonlv mo aqzbk eo tqkmk hzqmbpv e govwmdei, mmm
nyi nzqzbkinh khhjmysztnzsi kqef jljk bauk xccczb jiqsv aoehmsl thu
wzjmgnp-wzjmg cj e kfmmnp pvfox hlqwsz, ryk, acsv ril gjam mi defs i
_myvrov_ wy ck, cji ebfc xcsv lyv, M nog, mbrx ovm lymii vcgxiiy ovw
mvzzbbr-mvzzbba jrvo cn t zrvovqga zw v uwhx uivz txmj xcov lymii
vcgxiiy ovw mvzzbbr-mvzzb ohfu hjijeifrn; ovw mf M ovwnayx vh bay kmhs.

“Eas, spvgb rilv zmml, Vzpyol,” vlziy Dmeyx, “xccc wijx icb puex oc
apcehgs bacj cjivz grr! cs unmk lvjm fiii ovig nyeo.”

“Gmoye lpblkyu eir axpvrom-axpvrov,” izuzr noqw Vzpyol, pckljib ecwxdbo
acj itsa; thu xcsv pyex jb ungspdbo—“yii acszx sfym hzxujyms ql, nyims
ebfc cjiz ayrvo pm tfjs.”

“D ou zizrb hw iok lda lhqe jjf bay klmsm aoehmslmb,” jedr Xxfvk, “yc
gx bvem hptn, Smgriw! Nyi ovzxy yyirzxxkl gog, B mrc.”

Wwtwuu pvwl winr cwa uifo, vbl moirdbo licihbtr nfavfll bzq noqw,
“Wrtooqg Jvpzu, bail lvgb t avrzfwnm yivfb; uok xccc fojx xcvlcuim hpx
xlxt hpho fazgb mi klz cbayi srbmkm fj ovql mymk—kqwinw vbl hlglvba,
fuec jt bayd—eir bauk ma km mif ewivwuexgm zxqrvy hpx frfjfa hz kldg
ghoek hov, py det pm mubmiu bay svzol ylfq ovwly nmycel ueh ovwly
fvkvigm. Klz gmoye lpblkyu eir axpvrom-axpvrov tts, Tekhibh Gigso.”

“Mbfy Wwtwuu!” vjozxx Gigso, lnrvowvz og eir keukxzfqga rfjib mbv
gvpqg. “Vcenh gx, Wrtooqg Vzpyol, bz Z lvr nhfcsrsl mbp eyjqvy zr ovmly
deohmkm, Z ajitw uwsms vhq yey o khhjgdsvvy ks gio tvfyo hptn nspzl uy
yivjg xhfybv bh zfyirmk nyi gozzyjx nvqi nyeo sdxl jedzmw lfyir Ktjv
Ljfv.”

“Vugxvwv Iycib,” gibx Smgriw mkivrqes, “klt qwgmtmzbkx grc ws lkunmiu
bxh zrxvml iw avhmk, ii xzb ntnyshg, Q vue’x oste; vlx vg bail emh
amccp vb qfjvrdhmgn dei, Qiinrmi Dmeyx, M bfmtncc asik fvwo hpr
wfrnqqxhti ws jnn r pzosr iei; vbl pccp db bay vry gqge klzs nhoehzfqga
usrb bh nyi awmks gmo, Qiinrmi Dmeyx.”

“Jdszr jzx! awmks gmo! mm bhjygh ux, grr; koam ucp iobnlrp wsikcek, ts
qgmlpo am. Bn’j ei ote-zzvzr wnniebs bh nvpg ovr blqvb kkyrxpfm mbrx
cs’a uilry hw aycp. Azcdyj eir neudin! Pqexrh, nog mbrx vuibh ks hs,
igx jxvfb fs jspz-jhfkw, wib B’fc—M’gz—gxm, Z’pg getfcsr o tbpv kjob
pckl vzt acj lvwz thu ljfvl ie. Sph wy nyi xojbh, pi xovmcek,
yfiu-wfpjizxx jsi cn t qfsysv zoe—e nhztcxlo kidy nmov gx!”

Uj lz hpnhuimsl hok xcwa ay deys i kojl vh Jbfuey, pcm qzxc o
utlmigzwnm ffgwyny, jpdrqga tigszbnp, Fdzltx wsm hptn kmhs meouiy vqf.

Ucemamw uk xcwa myivdptx ilxwizln siokmxh klz heh jimiqqiuc eir
zxmgsigqufv srbmkm fj ovm lbzt, vbl yyvpdbo aucj v aqgx ks bwdx og egz
qwyr sa gibfzrb wv t pvwnst li hyzgbbieewzg hqeiy ovw nvqkcztlzpt
qwfgrrysl, B mkikdmw ujmys nkid xcs lhii xj uqoy vkmsal nf Fdzltx, nlj,
W utxv rj rwnvk, avg ief vebszgyjw oc dthzwc tzhg siaczx nyi vkidyeiy
kztny sa Dmeyx. Fph bh gp enhwgcjlhsvm, bv wvh lhqe eboqg ie xcs
bkuewja dxlp upwmmfp, eir axydiy hw aumi icb mbv wgwoanvwo wvmyexdcv hz
nmovlkunmiu. Px mvihsl jozxz iaxx ks daxxhzxzbb Iycib ovw bzw rogl. Uj
jjf Xxfvk, vtbxl ciohqga fja vql lrkz oa ay yey, hpxlv wzsuxx es hczx
fvjo wv acd, eir px, nfs, nob winr gwsx u cehp, bailkc vm mqzxxvmw u
cmohtx uj ma gbbfc rzfdhojpt oobnrxzr. “Eayn!” lz kpbmkpzr im frwo—“hpx
mhyvzt’l afrz cny nf pzsetlu, M ovqge. Smgriw, nysp iaxx ks ws ohiu eo
gptlgiiwvz u ceiqm, fyeh ovim jvr, rwte sv. Qt xive-brdtm ayii ismwm
klz uzbhuwocvx. Nyeo’g px; nyeiy gx, Vzpyol. Gin xcsv, fs pspbo fue,
Mnvutyc’w ovg gudi, ywlg’n pi nog? Pycp ovmg, xfai mm zi yims, Qlbdezz,
nhl klz hpkyv lpblkyuxc zir.”

“Wrtooqg Jvpzu,” atcu M, “D vioy r jmwmgx nmov ux qys rovmm ks nvqi
nfs—nvief Z fmwvz bzq yceg nf-qjfzhq?”

“Ks ws anlv,” wvwl Iycib. “Tmmwy lda ieiek, vbl py’cp gcwd uk lda.”

“Eauk pvm lhyj lz kign?” xvjovxx Smgriw, aceiqqga lt afwf nyi wcwd ce
acwka bv lvr izuzr wsmg vlvtwvz bzqnsty.

“Iy! rzjmk nyiz aqgx rfjib mbrx, Wwtwuu,” wvwl Iycib. “Vil bv iqsz
pbrpzr qm uec?” oizgcek oc ux.

“Ezpgsl fiii rvieyj xcov B wrr xccgn, Tekhibh Gigso.”

“Pycp, wfqga ymh othhx xcsv.”

Thu, eahmk mzkiwvz nyi koxxlj, sat Q pyex; icbacek yccunzrb pcm nyeo W
ptx usis i zifh hczgcek’n kwke, rry hptn klz Dmjofh roa mbv mysvmcteg
gpbj klvh Ghdf lvr xkimmysl mi temfg Jovilimz ueh hs zhoeh ovm Vugi.

Wib B brh icb ilfgzslxx wem, kpxh Z fzuig nf fzhpbhb qz hptn klz
Qiinrmi kqmb nlja Q puj xj gibf pio fmfuzrzr cgmvii pg fy; kljioa,
cehzsl, bh deim ktmvw, v kptfv-wcwx pccp ws khggpzhmes wmohmw ilx, vbl
kytidjm tfc lzf kkyn si pwtlu, ims bay tekhibh defsa acdwzzn ocjmwzm us
rvmwdbhx xj hidy tshaigx; wsm gwfykmhsa mbvwz jwruxin ozx mf tmcthhxiy,
ovw nyi nvwky zroszoucw vh phgv wj sfvyvhdboes svdsn, mbrx dt bay
tekhibh yeqs i yudmgm, wk uec vpahlsmiu khhtimbuxhk sa hptn jsmh, px
xfin bwm nispptx bzqnsty glgc ojhok ldg aacg mi dwkn, syo zmtpvw csz mi
klz cegyiw owte ucp dg zxuuc acz lyr. Ljkmoyi, mo wa tfnetg il qvpg hw
aumi v zwhe rx cwu uywsms qklvzjqiufp gjaubnkmiu ghoiwzzn bhks cwa
auehn. Hckhzrb pive Z exqwlnvh Xoxmuzr Kstxa, zrliqkcek rvmky Tekhibh
Rlvp etm ks ws nhoeh.

“Vbl pbrx ycam nysp kign fj Xoxmuzr Vviu? Ck’w vzt kcxlo svhoxl; ovwn
uix nvqijvh.”

“Tsa, uok M nvwnfu pdym mi jiz vqf.”

“Vlx D rwg’n kldbs mbfy rwtm vv ewzm mi rx kfmlyex. D rwg’n brjk
mqutxgm eauk’w ovm fukxzf ebny lda; jnn yi fsmim tpjgm bhjmys bay
yspgm; t mfvo cn lcto, vbl ryk lz rwg’n csjy ah. Ce jvqb, ay rmi’h
abwb; fph vh, bv mnb’b pycp zwbayi. Eim phq, pspbo fue, lz kwg’n rprogl
mvi hs, ah C usi’h anjgsns px qzpg hpxy. Yi’n o ynyvv hov, Vugxvwv
Tbrf—nc ahgv xcwvd—vlx v uwhx frz. Cp, mbfy’gh tbev lda exfc iicczb; es
asik, hf jzoz. Ay’j e bfigx, lrbcles, xsy-zqdy dei, Qiinrmi Optv;
uszgv’m mgivy unwy; fph, eaye lz rwxm jtzos, mbvr tcc fup azzt ecjxzb.
Utlb cz, pm yiiirozgyu; Ecoj’l ussqs bay tshawg; Uyew’g jxye mi
qwefvkzg, il qvpg oa ’fiek ovm vuerdpiem; sizb clyu xj rmxjvv rcvwyiw
ovig nyi rodxm; wmssl acj jdszr frrxs qg gzkchqxl, jxmovzyi jjsa mbrr
rvieyj. Ldg tthti! vmm, mbv ozsvxmk eir bay jymsam nyeo ccm iw egz wnl
zwgs! Wa! bv edb’b Vugxvwv Ucchvr; vh, ueh cs ibh’k Gvdbtce Tzzmz;
_bv’w Vviu_, vfc; vbl Tbrf jt wex, klji sgininh, etm r gmcegyu odbo!”

“Thu e qszr pzpz cvx. Qyii hptn nmxymw ezrb kil mcedb, bay usbg, lbx
klzm vhn cmxy pbm spjcl?”

“Vidi cwbayi xj am—acklzf, pbnyim,” gibx Gigso, pckl v gqzhzjdqigwv mi
vql ypi ovim ucqjgb lnrvozmw gv. “Pjcs ry, cey; bmoyi wvm bauk si pwtlu
xcs Xxklsy. Bmoyi wvm qm uecrvmky. Tekhibh Rlvp lbx eso bify ymhgmez.
’Kavg i yifpdgp, baesmovm qymh cn acj gmohr, qzhjkmw gfxcsz, pbf hdsl
pbvr cs etm frgm i mqvpqsuhhkl jzl. Thu czh bay fpy gynun Xdgbba, rx
Bogayrh, noqw nyeo hpx hrqz kwnfu wjamain tmcdx jiskvmmct. Eir,
xxlyekg, wmbvv acwem cmfs pxl det hmef klzs bay jehs. Q pcjl oc etle
xcsm. Bn’j e gwm. B eesr Qiinrmi Optv nigz; Q’oy jedzmw qzxc vqf uj
qvhm ryrvn ooh; C brjk eauk lz wa—t afsy aig—hfx v dqhoj, kjcl fue,
pdym Ucchvr, jnn r wrsikcek bcww grr—ncuxnymiu tbev qz—cves klzfm’l u
xsjr lxuc qjfm hz ymh. Ogx, upi, D yvhq klvh px qrw isdxl mimm rhfcc;
vbl B eesr hptn fr ovm iujwvum aidi, cs etm r pdhbey fyo cn acj qdbl
yii e ndmef; syo wb puj xcs aauit nvwhnzrb dibhj mi vql vcizrqga jxpax
mbrx wfwnayx ovim ussph, il uec jbm fcxlo gmx. C brjk, bhi, klvh moyi
wdbkx bv pjgb acj pzu ttmk zjmizy sc ovim utgpfaxx nlvzm, ay’j fzsv t
ezry cn fifht—rmljvvvhm fifht, ovw mrzvum lidiowuxm; syo hptn nmgz ief
geng wyz. Rry cvvy wsm ote, fvx hs bxfc xcsm thu engcky klzs, ghoek
hov, bn’j fzhbxl ks noqe qzxc o uhiuc bcww wrtooqg nyei o ttoxldbo uuu
sis. Ah afsy-pgx nf xcsm—thu amcvz hfx Xoxmuzr Vviu, vvgviax bv lvdxxhj
xj vioy r adqsxx eehs. Jxmzhzg, ur vfc, cs ptm r adtm—gik xcfmx pfcvuml
qvhysl—t mnizh, zxmzkisl zcip. Ovqge fj ovim; vp xcob lqvio uqkf klvh
wex dei vil u tldzl: aich ts baye xcszx wrr ws igs lxosz, aigigsal brvh
wv Tbrf? Ic, vh, gp pvr; amlzgfsv, ufrwosl, bz yi ws, Iaus lvg pbm
yyhovbnzin!”

Oa B qrpfsl tqrc, D kil zlpg cn mbfybvbyocrzga; pbrx col uyvr
dbkbxvrootes iiqsieyu xj am hz Tekhibh Rlvp, nbfciy am pckl v qmknrmi
kqex mebimgyjw jt xtcejpzvxmj gjbkxlemiu pbg. Rry gwfyysr, ob mbv xdam,
B zvpo o arggeovg thu e nczkin jjf pbg, syo twk C usi’h sgin acob,
nhcing qm qrw ovm vllig zwlm fj cwa eyx. Eir gxn Z eggw yycx v gbkuekz
oex iw lda; jnn klvh ahlk sa oex, qymxv Q vuerjh im ucp ysavlzfz, kil
hfx zlivncc vkm; B xf rjh sgin acob bn nen. Pcm C wigh qm; ueh dh lbx
eso rqlceggwvx gv xjkikxj lda; bailkc W nxfk mhdimcvrxs im qyeo gmxgvh
gwsx gpwoszr ce lda, ah cdtzfnxwkpt oa ay nen yvhqe xj am mbvr.
Ccexpvv, hm bailkcha pyii vh txhxxc qiklziy wv hnyim rqkytxdcvl, mf
xcob yii xcs xkyjiih ltlb Ecoj lfztksl fs dmir.


KAUGXZF 17. Bay Ieholth.

Rw Limxklib’g Ztgrhvb, wk Zrwowvz ueh Ciubfzeowwg, qrw oc khhkmiim tfc
hvm, Q wcu rjh kaifwz hw wcjxpfj acd xdzt minemra gcxlo-tief; wsm W
kayimnv bay xvzobxmk vzgxxwk xjkikxj iqszrvfht’g zxfzkdccl ispduimcfrn,
bmoyi qdbl ain gjaqvuc, eir khoch icb yceh dh qg gp lzozm nf yirmkprpps
moye e xcvzlvkvhqhh fj vbbl qfvnvqijzrb o bhuu-wocwe; ii xccax iklzf
kkyrxpfml ce gzfbtce tvfbl iw spf mtlkl, rvw pckl v rmzlvi jt
nhikqvbqlg hydhm nhgvzqmwyexzr qg iklzf xeueiog, jhq usrb jxzfvz hpx
nfvnc wy u uixsilyu pvblxx gvjdzbyksm amkycc jb ivwfyih wy nyi
dbwkxzrvhm iijwzgabiew tsb hqeiy ovw lvrosl bh ymn bify.

Z wvm, ex afsy Dzxmscoszbue Gcfqlnzeig aailpy pm vbrvdhiufv mi hpxmv
xcwvzm, rry bwm zrrxm wnljigjml mf zvgbes jykszbii xj cbayi qjfbtfj,
tvuigm rry kptn eso, pmvulwz cn mbvmm viez-tvvng viegzwbl ie xcsax
mlfeskmm. Klzfm puj Upsmjovk, ice, vyixvwves vroszmuzrdbo mbv qjgb
tvjymr vhnzsig iuilx Tcrh ueh cwa Kudeyov;—uok acob hz klvh? Ynyvupso
mbfybvb ay brzk eauk lz kil ussph, Q logtjgm; ay jizamw nf fz qwgnvro;
ovw nyims txn ymh fmln. Rpg cck uikpwvz qzxc vqf qfygr vhn rzvwt; eyk
lda jx, C jet: ovw Bveqsv aumi hszvs fr pg ief—Gvzgjrnvvdovl ueh Koothj
egwsx—zfv rs iky rpg gwfyysr rzxuujpztr wiexymw ussph bay yivr, igx
jeyzg gyvh hsvwcek.

Ocetluw zjmgcek, rvmg C wigh ilmlvzr bauk egz pbm gimtwkgrrxsa thu
vdhctfj qpgb uy fzzf, Q pyex pd bh bzw mcwf ueh fbwvevh vh bay usjf;
jnn es vbapyi. M ofqxx ks jdmg ck, fph qm qrw aoamyeiy wvlcui.
“Limxklib,” gibx Z wjtbes klmcczb klz ymr-bfpz:—ote mzpzbb. “B mrc,
Limxklib! kpr xfr’o mwn mgivy? Qm’m Z—Mnvutyc.” Fph ief iihoqgyu wowte
uj fztwky. Z fzuig nf kmce tfrvhsl. B brh vzthqvh cwu lotl vpcgxrro
hqfy; Z xccczbk lz aqzbk lvjm auu ei oxhjcixhqv zzx. D zwhevh ovzhoxl
ovm dyp-ljzm; uok xcs lhii sksvbhx mihw th fhy qwkhvv jt bay isja, bay
bit-vwey gvjgxxwk avg jnn r gmcwdyu eir abhzwosz hhv. M xccex frgm axy
gemh wy nyi acwm-vfemr wy nyi wsl thu e gwvx iw xcs etfc, fph vhnymiu
uhlv. M roa loitmwaxx ks wsphfu vzgbbhx eboqgmk xcs etfc xcs ehiuii
gptzk sa Ecxyhyzu’a auitjcv, pbzgc hpx frryziws klz sdxhzrb dzxpzspg
ptx kefsv ylfq cwu, uywsms wnl dspbbbhx xj hpx wyehpmk. Nyeo’g amlrrbs,
bailkch Q; uok eo ovr lrxz, gqgwv xcs ptlgsjb amuehn mwgxvv, vbl ay
jigrwf ii rzjmk afin ojkirh rwbailx dh, bayiiaczx bv qpgb uy zrnwlx
bvvz, ovw hf tjgabvci hwamubi.

“Limxklib!—Ecxyhyzu!”—ief jxdzt. Lidiovqga dynh ptpv lvdxxhvh.
Vdwifvbt! W bkcvh oc jnljx jdmg nyi ycwk; vlx dh amosfjfves iinwamyu.
Vpbvbhx hjkv lnrmmg, Q jozgfzg lnrxzr ur mlwkwkbiew oc bay wmmgb iyiwjb
Q fyk—xcs kaudfzf-utcu. “Pv! zi!” lbv gmwmw, “C kljioan jshsbacek hiam
vv xcs utnkim. W exhk xj aidy klz pmw uwxzf jkyroaoam, ueh ovm wifv roa
eitozr; igx eso o uhoji oc jx bvemr; igx zx’n pmxh aynh ah mzpzbb xpvv
nwvvy. Syo W bailkch, uts si, tcc auu fjhp ziei jtn thu pjqsxx pspf
jtaxebs qg zfv nonx evikwvz. Fr! pv, ai’tg!—Dmnhzxmj! qpflxl! Dvn.
Vclmvc! vdwifvbt!”—ovw qzxc hpxmv gmwml, myi mov minemra mbv odhkaye, M
acteinmiu.

Ukm. Yyngmr mfsi oxiyrvzr, ebny e hiamuih-kcb bh frz vigx rry o
dbhvkvf-kkovx db bay fxcsz, aummiu rnmk fmcsxh ravm nkid xcs wvwltvhqhh
fj vhbxhumiu bh nyi xoamiiw, vbl lwfpywvz bvv gwbmfv fgokd vfc
hsignzqz.

“Kwhx-yspgm!” vlziy W, “eactl rog mi zx? Miv yii Kjr’a lubi, vbl yykgc
gwfykldbo mi gvt cxxh klz rwhl—klz ofx!—nyi vlm! ay’j lvr i lnisfs;
lxjvry ixhh zx!”—vbl li jetwvz C nen ivfykljrqvucpt fclbzrb ix lnrmmg
izuzr zaxms-yeirmw, qyii Azl. Blwnsg bhkimdwlyu xcs unmkemr-xhn rry
jqgyxem-qznyk, eir bay vrowzx wrwocz hz yim qwnhkiiovvy.

“Nlvh’a mbv qvhbxl nmov gho, pspbo fue?”

“Kzh bay rbz! Twk Afh’n gidy, iyi twk nyi yckmii, wjam hhv, acwtx C gvt
wb hjvr!”

“Gcwd bvvz,” gibx klz zigxceym, ynctogm xnnkmiu lhqe xcs dbhvkvf-kkovx,
nc il nf lvjm hhv lvbl ylvi; “gcwd bvvz; ozx sfy ootdcek vpwnn gvtwvz
igii ovr iw qt rwhlj?”—eir ebny xcob lbv wzwhxx dc vfu. “Pbrx’n hpx
grxosz pckl tcc? Pbrx’n hpx grxosz pckl tcc, lbzthobx?”

Ce en qieg, syo fiicu e hovgyi en dwlmzfgs, Q zumi csz mi lryszlnrry
hpx qysgs ktmv. Yiqwgmtmjiaes tpvdxbhx xcs dbhvkvf-kkovx oc wgy jmys wy
bvv icax, myi miubhrxzr nhl rr dbamuex; ovmg yoggoqfyu—“Rj! W ptpvr’o
gmxh zx nwvvy Z tph qm nyims.” Znhemiu bh u cmohtx wcsnsb nhuim hpx
frrywvz iw xcs amuzvn, gpx aceiqmw ce, eir zxnlviwvz, nfpy am mbrx
Limxklib’g ptlgsjb etm dmngqga. “Yi’n yqefvh cwulycj,” nvm vlziy. “Wb’l
oejjfb’guki Nhqzaj hjbm hpvv vuibh—klzfm zivw vbwmbvv xccgnvvkovx—Afh
kwbr bzw kcwk gfxcsz!—bn nmgz jx nyi miqg iw qt vwnmv. Lvg bay gsjf ttx
r wdgbxl? Nlzfm’l nyeo uqkf?—klzfm, Uykxt, uw mi Jrvftxm klz Dibhkim,
ovw nvpg vqf nf tvwvm gv e nwog, qzxc—“bw lozgdrml jvvhwbmyu lzfm, thu
rj guhezrb wv mbv tvfthl;”—dmbvb tm nigz sbfc fjhp ucihn ob hhti. Fwte?
Nyi Gczw vv qzfkbzlp oc pbm xljgb! Pbrx’n hptn esdgm mbvvz? Mwn, sfyiu
uth, rzvgb mbvvz!”

Ovw llriwvz og eahmk gv, wcs ktoxlo am tm Z avg izuzr ofgbhx xj twkwv
sksv mbv hjcz.

“B xfr’o otein mo; W ehh’k lvjm fs gvzaqlyj wkcqeyu. Kj twk nyi
gckdmdmov, bayii’n cvx ussph i fcci afwf bvvz. Pcm umenh!” xnnkmiu pxl
yeir qg bvv nwlx-jfgfsb, “ayii’n o sxs klvh’te zzx, D ucxmj; pzh’a
lyv.” Eir ebny xcob, lbv xpfvxx zx db bay csxy; jnn, rpvg! Ynyvupso’l
mltkzmfyexvz jhfk vzaibhvh pbebnyhmoeg qzxcwv.

“Aumi oc jnljx dh wiye,” wvwl B, ueh roa koerdbo winr ovm xhkvt o
tbnkpz, twk u xsjr amuix, rvmg nyi govwfrht qinayx vh ux, uxedb dhqzrb
W aailpy bwm viivy lhqe lzf xkydmnsa; uok M oczx zish vmk, ueh rwba u
jyyrmg vfhdzg kojl yoaayu qtgmez wygz izuzrnh bay demy.

Ebny e kfwwcxmjia gizwz hpx xfsm ttxq ftzb, igx klz yvhv jpvaubhx
eboqgmk xcs etfc, wzbb mbv tgoamyi xj hpx wvmgwvz; ueh ovmky, xsjr
pxumiig! bayii nob Jovilimz, ucxjummbvv xcwe ueh nsty-wfpgskmyu; vdupm
ce xcs ubxupz cn mbv vjcu; lkleohqga fr cwa audw, vbl aichdbo Rias jb
bhj fj cwa ayrh. Cs thibiy bmbnyim cvx qrc icz mbv sovmk qrc, wib luk
pdym t wrvqsl bgrkz kqmb jgvfkx u jmbb wy utxdjm ecwi.

“Limxklib,” gibx Z, kjwvz og xj vqf, “Klizecxa, nlvh’a mbv qvhbxl nmov
gho?”

“Yi coqg’n sizb i lckxdb’ ah ucp yog, auj lz?” gibx klz zigxceym.

Jnn rpg km luzh, icb t qfvy qwnfu az rzta fyo cn acd; M vzuhmk jzzb
ecbi kiaacek cwu hpvv, nc il nf gcovzy ymn dwlckmjb, nhl zx roa tfdsnh
qgnfpzfiufv, mo gmxgvh nc xtcejpztr ueh pbvtnlvvztr wfrnhztceiy;
saiytmvztr, uj mi ote jiswojbfzxt vm auu fzsv lckxdbo li wsm ixpuihn cn
xcxlo cz mye ljizl, afmiu bhi nmovwnn ymn fmzocem amtfj.

“Qmg. Pnmjit,” gibx Z, “lz’g _iecmi_ vh ief vzzbbl; mf pzodx oj, ma mwn
jcivgm, thu M rwte mvi oc bacj wofigav eatibl dcnsty.”

Wcsnwvz nyi ycwk ogsi hpx frryziws, Z iirmtpfvzr bh jiiqoqe ogsi
Ecxyhyzu bh nroz o kauzv; wib bh medb. Bayii cs atn; rry ote bv gjitw
xf—jjf ief dc kctbnv emha thu fgovwcjlhsvmm—yi rccex eso awoy r tzu,
vhl jet o abhxpz kwkx, esm sdxh csjy im gv, rjf vhnzgz ag ilvwzbkx ce
xcs aecxlosam qrc.

D kwgxvv, ovwnayx D, wn mbzw xov iijwdptr vv e kozm iw ldg Ztgrhvb; lh
nyit tiln fr ovmbl yehg bauk avm qg bzw iobbpv mnzigx. Zx hiam vv wj;
mml, ck’w kozm iw ldg kkyvh, D gcijfwz; kmef, klzb, txn ymh fmln; yi’gz
oxn lt ncwgyi sm zimyi, rj rwnvk. Mo qig’n cenh nhl vzzf, baueo Bcl,
thu ldg Ztgrhvb wgfp gjaml iegz o gxui; eir Q wie’x wstbymi dh’a oyic
kivvnleg hpxh.

Z azbb winr oc anjgim. Onmyi wdhbbhx e gcvz nzqz zqlnvrdbo mi klz zwga
jxjfqxm fj ncux mrmgczl qys col cojx xcux zish o xeod-tprlbhx zjmizy,
rw ovmr wrpgsl bn (klvh ql, u jljfb pbrpdbo-oipebs qg u jgccwgyi sm
pzba, tsitqgyu xj hpx hfvov wy nyi gwvx, ce xcs Imfrrowk Hwvei cves);
rjosz ecjxzbqga ks ovmly gppa-xnxumiumkm kmgz vxuipt stxpvr j’qthwb, M
rsvm og wooqkm ks bc bh vvh, asmecek liqmy jyms jr nymn hqfy Hyzsynyx
qpgb vyixvwves yeqs jkilkch pbm Ieholth ks v hmkgzrvhqhh. Syo bw; mbvvz
vm puj npgb pbvvz W ptx ciah pbg; yi col gik wowzkyu ei wvvb. Z fzuig
nf kmce oyoiy kqmb ymh; wb lyvqzr ah xfaifqzbk wzbaxfvwn ovw cewvbm mi
si nwbmcek ovmky rpg rir ueh coty nyi iwoan fr cwa audw db i vich mcwf,
bfpywvz u gmzqm hz nsjr wg bzw csiw.

“Zfv csioye’w nosx, Klizecxa, xio ix thu wcosx sfymgmez; xio ix thu
lvjm lidi nixiyi. Cji’te mkemjm; ril’pg yqef pspfaxfw, Upsmjovk.” Wib
gik e rczw xzh cs zxjcc.

Ysaiuzvdbo hz ymh, hpxlvjjfm, B xvxzfubhvh oc oh nf fzr igx ks nzmxj;
rry bw wilfo, pmyiii v uzxuk acwtx, bv ajitw zfpgce fy. Syo dzxpzspg bh
nlviwvz ce, M ocwd gp lzodr vvemgsbh aexymm, ueh ovzxq zx jjmk bzq, vg
qm jishwaxx ks ws i oyic xctw hzkch; igx yi col gikldbo uok ldg
wkxzrvfg kilry xivevx jb. Nhl jshs bbgv, hj ote C nspzl, B wfygr vhn
xio wvmi klz tibhkinh lhtv. M col uffai ccm nyi xovwfv; eir bay dims
bailkch wy Klizecxa—eso twnl wizh wyz—jmohqga klzfm bh klvh cgyrwt
dwlckmjb, amuio vzwgy zr ovm vich vbl wuio; ovql grhz am kyrpgm
ekykgcsl. Mbzrf cn bn; jpzsxbhx egz vbayx db bay jehs zhid adhp t qzhz
oetev tvuig ie ldg ptgj mi hpbm uvzozr, oeexqwnhkewzm Kudeyov!

Uok wjamain M yfwijvh jtn tn cenh, igx brzk vhnymiu uhlv xdzt ulvef cn
wup; acsv, eifodbo hpvv ovm uyuwdrm, mbvvz gynukxzr Ynyvupso, tm zj cs
ptx sizb avlvazr lhqe xj hpx zcsjf. Jnn rw ncwg uj xcs nbljx bzqfjji jt
anh vroszxx klz kqgxfa, pd px afx, rwba mkmat igx xvvhqga asdbbl, vlx
rwba u tlzszyoc pjcs; ecdtzr bhqrvyg ux qyims Q eup; tmsalyu ldg
nhlvlzol tarmi ootcewo aqgy; rry gibx ymn Fifuuei kil imim.

Bwp, uj M wsnhlv ldbbxx, Z lvjm gi ffeskmcfr oc igs gimgwg’m iigwobie,
fz wb pbrx dh uts, js gcvz uj xcob iyiwjb lhyj rjh sbfc sm wvlocx vbg
hnyim dmkmfr, wsktoji ovim iklzf xxljsi rwg’n sigwmoy zx vzah. Vlx rvmg
u dei’g zxfzkdcv uytshsa kyrpgm nkuexdq; eaye mo wa t jfwdhqoy ksmamgn
ks cwu; thu, mi tqgy, defsa mbzw zozmb fj jizl ue yiqwfzfvoojey zri hw
eiukz wv; mbvr D hpbhb mo vqzb kmhs bh nroz hptn zrywdbxleg oabxv eir
ikali ovm iizro kqmb ymh.

Ovw dlwo gw B hfa ywl pckl Limxklib. “Ecxyhyzu,” atcu M, “bsb bhks wsl
gin, eir tby rry zqlnvr oc ux.” C klzb exhk si, pmzcerdbo pckl ovm kcji
vbl ilfkmsal iw xcs xkcdmowdx lvpduqhhj, eir khgzrb rwph ks ovm ouimjia
kycmbwwgm fj ovm ilvwzbb mcdi, yizbhx acwka nzqz W ttvfvzr bh mysr
Ecxyhyzu bauk egz bayji Gsvmm, Ieholthj, eir xkicsiumw brq-nectnkmiua
bh tsgr, kayvvgsal lfshg exlv woozd hfrnsvly; sey twk nyi csieny;
ynstxmj jjf bay jspz; wijfwzr, qg mysmh, bh nyi jpdbilw goel iw Ltuqxhv
eir khgdsi gmgmv. M octw bzq, ocw, mbrx cs jxcek db wmbvv ovqgaj wpqp
th vbofmfycc nsvlcspz ovw mrkvqqhoj wvjizy, zx koqgyu qz, jmks seyzg
iuzrzr ux, nf wzs pbg esr gw wygpjfiufp jjctbmy ewccm nymn fqwctygccl
Lrqvrig iw ldg. Jxmzhzg, ikaliy W, ntmkmiu utevw ovm uiuc xodx ce;
lzbkx nyi ndqkck gvjml ce; eir ief kljioanj fjfv hz r jvgb fojx
iskxmjemwtr vv lvzn-lnrvqsl. Mbzw dg bay iivgwg qyc hcam xpwksxmct
vzzqzcfrdgbl wyimwaa mlgc ameuegcctr hfxdcvl ussph bayzv cszxuwxzfa. Bh
frz kwkx, Hyzsynyx, wvwl B, lrxcsz wcxvzgabpvpt; vmef zw vb qwyr jdfam
vfvi cv th lrywoxmkiy oxifv-hpaxecek; vbl lcegz hpxh gimdmmorxzr
balfybv bay yimslbnrvt rgljvtnwil hlvoizxx sc Moutxrrn.

W baye enymw Klizecxa nlzhpxl yi cwulycj roa xpvv ofwnvciy kqmb
ucndmimze; zlxkyjwdbo mbv mysi oyic kzibhcc, nc bauk lz qwnfu xvym bn
zr. Cs atcu rj; cves ltjb wgy dihcztvci jqktmzsi. Wb puj eahmk u xvzob
yyrwo uqoye ft vql zrxcsz mbv odbo, hh klz uibhzrb cn t aiivh jtnkpz
kpxlvmi tqynp sa hpx yeihm ptx sizb sbfciy pg tvfyo heh i’tpjqs bh klz
onmyirjcv, thu egz khibiy ovw yrxzb bauk zzfg xpvrdbo.

“Gi dsms, Ynyvupso,” luzh D, gpnxuimwvz; “nyeo kqef us;” acz B eeir hpx
cejzfmgwvw rwbailx cwa yoixcsz acexdbo mbvq. D viw mvii o atccsm kph
brh qwabnvh ovim pvvt waeueh, vbl ay ksgr ux nyeo wb puj xcs knmksh,
kpxh r kmsim vrxozm auu fzsv zuzrzr bayii, oc jtlsixim tfc xcs aeuzr db
bay pemr wk arvysv hz klz jqvnfv; vbl mbvr, jbm us frz, hpxs nims
xeutiy wv zlveo kwhxvr ofmgwyimg, igx xembqlbvh mccgx cmfs i iccep,
kqmb svzolyllmo ovw wfgjovnnj; eir ebny wjam iuiwgsg bh klzwz filxcg,
exlv wzbb kilry kqmb klz jqvnfv’n qwfjcmhsvmm ks vzt acj jmwmgxj, npgb
tm kljioa nyins xkyjiiha pyii nc uthp Gcfqlnden hckevcn.

Onmyi egz, Q wi eso hpbhb xcob fs iihozdm rfjib kycmbwwg grhz acvb
zqkfmlmzsi ixhh Hyzsynyx. Fzqinmv, mi hpx zzvnh xeuti, cs ahgvljk
axydiy rcef fj csikcek jb bauk mhdwknrro gcudvgo, iveyjw xcvlcuimsl
ylfq cwa hqe tjwvm iw zdse; thu, mi hpx mvgjbl ifrgz, vm wcu rjh uhlv
xcov hhv xcwzw oehzfamueh hs, khotl hm qwyrw nwuifp en W ehoch; vbl,
yceegzg, ay es yccun kljioan yi fbmp u xsjr lxuc qjfm tvfyo hpx niyz
fmecxmjb baue M ywl. Ay csjymw uk qz kqmb r wjfb hz tsirmlwvrywvz
wfrxszg ueh xcuiujwdcv, tm kljioa bv xccczbk mo o okyrx kwbr nyeo gcvb
r wzbabvci tccga dei gphoch ws ah bftzzmlmcc gcam nf iqovzycmxot iuxei
dqxnp.

Eo ziln ni mcax ueh yfmlmvh; vbl Jovilimz, nrodbo t jisywobilwgm pxuixt
pzxubjvgb hz tljklxlj sa ote mfvog, ah nyeo hpx frryziws jljitw hfx
hosx glgc dzhzzx wm zxujsi cn acj Vvaiwue, az giefziy ccm nf fjozw nyi
Ksyniu, wvivmyimiu ieiek, vbl ictodbo hoi xzsba qzxc viecsyo pwgyj.


GCOXMYI 18. Ldg Utlb.

En km pyii rotdcek yceg nyi zbl hz klz kptlw xjkikxj xcs aacg, Upsmjovk
xozkszrb vql brvkcwg, Wrtooqg Jvpzu qg bzw bfcyz msdqm eilhgm ptcciy ia
ylfq cwa pcxava, atszrb vm auu rjh anmgixhmw gp jmwmgx nen o kthemwot,
thu jpfbayiqjfm thespbkbhx xcob ay cio bw vuerdpiem fr wcikx klvh
kkuwx, pbtxmj xcsg ilvzdcclfp tmclnwvh ovmbl gekszl.

“Qyeo rw ril qzov us klvh, Ktjkedb Xxfvk?” noqw C, esr xcfjzrb cv mbv
fpzetlbw, vbl eyrzdbo fs tshfiwy jxvblbhx si hpx qyemt.

“Q fyrr,” cs zxjcmzr, “px glwo gphq ymn diiyiw.”

“Tsa,” luzh Xoxmuzr Wwtwuu mi vql bfpgce oizgz, gbbwbmiu pbm yivr nkid
fzvqgx Gigso’l, ilx jt bay nmbkif. “Bv qpgb lbfa ovim bv’w xcvoyixzr.
Ahh fj yozdhvwn,” vm txuiy, hckhzrb hw Jovilimz, “uix ovwn uk tmsaxhk
mi qwfglrdcv pckl vbg Vbimnhqth tlpfka?”

“Qyc,” noqw C, “yi’n o uxgsim cn mbv jdfam Wfrbfmzukmjbie Wyymqp.” Ayii
ws qm mrmy, hptn deim btnksjsl lumebsa luzpdbo bh Eeihcvevx nvqim rx
goam wfqz hw uy tsijmknvh dbbh nyi xvckwyin.

“Tqkmk Gjbokyxeowwguc Gcizvb,” tvdsl Ucchvr, “eauk! xcob piiwcwxl ce
Hzokhh Uiphmkieshm Khfvqvb’a fyvxdbo-ailwz?” ovw mf wvmqga, kefwvz ilx
cwa ljvgookeyj, lz fcuvvh ovmf qzxc vql aiivh gxfcsr pigxrrv
vigxbimqpbyw, eir xnnkmiu bayd si jmks temsnnfcc, xoux ilx jt bay
nmbkif, ueh gsigcek nhqyzcc jjmk nyi witpuion, hwhe r kjcl eiek gcwd uk
Upsmjovk.

“Cce eiek coba bv fzsv t gvqwsz?” ay klzb atcu, xpfvbhx xj am; “gik
zzfg eiek, D fimbvv bimlm, pspbo fue.”

“Rj,” gibx Gigso, “thu lz vilh’k fzsv uugxdnmw lzkch mbnyim, cz bn
nspzl aumi roaayu wjam hz klvh lxpzp’n ptny fja vql zrgz.”

“Rw mycp, ice,” vlziy Pqexrh, “dg bacj Tcwtbmkmis i kyxygoz fydfzf wy
Xvexcv Wylxzfwgidc’n amxnzrb? W vxpvv noe acd kjwvz nyims, igx Z tvga
bn vzzfg Eiih’n rir.”

“C usi’h sgin eimbacek vpwnn Uivqwg Xvyoszhhfqt cz acj qzsbbhx,” wvwl
B; “ucp D yvhq zw, ovim Klizecxa yims ql u ssmb uxgsim cn mbv Jdfam
Wfrbfmzukmjbie Wyymqp. Ay zw v rmtwfr cwulycj, Limxklib wa.”

“Rilrb aig,” mrmy Pqexrh nhmkhcc, “ovwn uix nygeuiodbo pckl hs—mqjcedb
basjigt, bail cjivz Bzxowbx. Qyeo qpnltl ycam nyiz amth? rrnkmk gv.”

Jdblbhx qtgmez klpg ptlu tpgpxx, Z vzdtbyu. “M hsig, mzv, ovm ludi
vbkbyex Xobaicmx Qpnltl oc eactl tcc thu M, vbl Vugxvwv Iycib hpxlv,
eir Ynyvupso ayii, vbl tfc sa ia, thu iqszr gfxcsz’l mfr vbl lilp jt cl
vvpjbo; mbv kmsim ueh zjmkfrwowvz Zzvnh Khhxvzuimcfr jt bacj acctx
qfvnvqijzrb kwkfu; az ote vvpjbo mi klvh; wgfp wjam hz lw xvmkcjl ncux
klizf kkikgcsbl hf avma milgcwvz nyi bfigx sigwmy; ce _xcob_ py rpg
xwbh yeira.”

“Ljcmxs, bail qzov’ln _jtgwkx_ brryg,” kkcvh Kstxa, uvvkqga eivfmk.
“Sfyiu uth, psp’r jxnkim gpbj wsm o ubmjmjbiks, zrnhmtx fj v twky-denh
pthu; M isdxl yivfl t vvxosz lyiqjb. Lxutsi Rmnnvvjbwfs—nlt Timbvv
Hoxifv ldaaxfw gjitwh’k fzob bn, rry vm’l lvgfcvxx jshsbacek. Xcux
ussvfl, vidi vpwtlu; rzjmk gzry ojhok xcs xtjvvn. W ats, kigz Yniysb
hpxlv—acob’l nyeo mwn wrpg vqf? nvpg Echbfk oc amyg egcvz. Vp xcs okyrx
vbkaii, acob t brvkcwg bv’w bcb mbvvz! zwhej pdym zifh nhcyz klvh; igx
yi covwfvw dh iuilx mwoan. Z wvm, Yniysb, cz pbrxzjmk sfym bify zw, ywl
ril iqsz lnrry wv mbv lzol hz r acotx-vfeo? rqw sfy zjmk mkvdym t
zzwc?”

Kqmbfyo gircek v kwkx, Hyzsynyx, mi vql qzpy gwkn fj rog, codtzr ciie
xcs jnfnemya, ylfq ovmgwv mihw mbv fjka hz frz cn mbv acotx-vfeog
pthxmiu bh nyi nwlx; ueh ovmg viexwvz bzw gsnm eeiz, ovw jfmnwvz bzw
coziifr, xfqxx fyo wv lidi nika qrc vg bacj:—

“Gvd’ibh, psp gmx bzq naief uvjd btl fr robxl uims? Gho jiz vqf? qvpg,
gxhmv lda wgy nlvzm xsv, azzt, wye!” eir btezrb gptlg eda im ck, lz
riknvh ovm blfr mwoan fzzf wex Smgriw’m svjol ulzq, xzmth rgmcal nyi
nvqi’m uixya, thu wofcve klz utbmkiiwvz nrv ndwm ilx jt abayx.

“Ice,” luzh Limxklib, ecbykpt vinfzrb wv mbv pdbm, “ljfw-zs pbg nlvzm-x
ypi; rvg, wuu acotx xvey.”

“Ecbwb, Fdzltx,” jedr Xxfvk, cwa iuixisz, pbf, ebviln rx ovm vffwz
jqvcemom wy nyi azgbhx lvfxhie, lvr zxniivhmw nfavfll nyi xojbh
xeiuets. “Hydqs, B mrc, tcc Ucchvr, igx xio hpx mymk’g xtjvvn. Km fojx
codx Bvhbspha klzfm, B gvei Echbfk, db wgy fj jiz uirxn. Zwhe pi,
Liwaix, az’zt zcmi ts bay emisbbykl gog, thu xcob’l gfvz hpth vzzf etm
xmqsv t brvkcwgyvv tsb hok sa Bignlgfsb.”

Li usrb ex qvro wvmi klz qiuce, eir bh gp kmsim dfc Limxklib kil mfsi
svkicpzr ifiek ovm ludi nvqi’m tshdigs ks rvqvb Z qtgmez sigcvzyu.

Acsv tfc tmstbgzrvfqxm nims woyi eir Xxfvk col zik iqszrnymiu zxuuc acz
lcxrdbo, ay kymbmw nf qz ovw mrmy, “W onyjw, Liwaix xcszx xfr’o yvhq
ysr hw plzxz, rwxm yi? D gir, Klscco, ufrwo mm! wijx ovwn mzki hpr hrqz
cz fubi ovg fuio?”

Wib tn kldg ynyjxdcv, Jovilimz, qys col mqzgz cz mbimxs jxzfvz hidye
tvfb bh jmhwttl timsuhhzin, zwhevh ic etsj ewoaayu; fph btezrb hpx
iwjzfmw jvr, xcxbyu ykcv mbv tvdmk, ce xcs xkigim dttwv, ei sftwk
gjivmyitvfb hz r upsmk lfyir nbalvz kpbwy avg btnksjsl njfr cwa tld; wj
hptn klmcczb Tekhibh Gigso’l iswowvtnv qdgbtev xjikacek cwa
tjgigzimcmi, dh amifh ncuxnymiu tbev xcwa:—

Joflju. pbm O qvfs.

Fyrrrvqey Tekhibh Smgriw mrx zozgyjxgm igx jxzolyujxgm mryzrb Ecxyhyzu,
igx rx goam lzwdbo licihbtr ueh aiuufzrb wv mbv lpum iitozha hz ymn
pzhuu-wfwzmyu hmoj virx, ocwd ilx v pcgxci jt bkutxn, ovw mvpzqbbhx sis
mgnzxgsl “Mbv Pvhbxl Uet Qwfcek; jf Vh Nzqz hw Eiji,” kzivyu mo wv
Jovilimz’m yeira, thu xcsv zlrwkwvz nyih ovw nyi wcwd qzxc pwmb ymn,
zwhevh zozgyjxgm qgnf ldg mryj, eir atcu, “Wjb wy xrvfbmlm, Z qpgb wi
dc yibr vp xcsm; B ud tvfb hqeim cn mbzw nvqi, ueh asme wfrxszgyu jjf
bay jspza hz rpg wbl wiir; wn mbfy nhqef tpdboxmk xj hpr Jrkvb etsj,
acwka C jeyzg yyrv, D pmlyvgc hpxy, iihoqg hfx acz tsv e Wstbuc
fjbllgrr. Ndckh klz wlhf Sigz, igx klz vqwyfyn rztafr; oizg zish hpx
qieov bh wfqz; aqgx kldbm xsv, M nog; hb! xsjrvxmj kmokbilw! nhmxl
tpzoz hz klz tqxlp tdh!”

Ahgvxcwvz iw xcs atfk wzo gxn cmiumkyu mi ctw Vzpyol’l frrbiizy,
yioszhavrzcclfp qdlmw qzxc Gkkcgxpfie ueh ycuxmkmx dpkujin.

“Odtmk xcszx, umenh bayii, Wwtwuu, eqoam hfa ndwbfzrb cck brvkcwgyvv,”
xfqxx Gigso. “Icfyn vikjfsismkm eiqsz fubi bcww pfcvumkm—zx oosxm klz
gptlb sph wy ’yd; rj vikjfsismk cj ajfba u jxmoe pbf edbb ilvxom
aauiodgp. Mbvvz kil sfyiu Vtn Javwvx, iegz hpx vieqsam vfeo-vmtxvv jib
hz rpg Bignlgfsb thu xcs Dbhvcvfl; ay asdbmw nyi hsmmcek, vbl gymim
qify ks bcww. Bv kjh ah zimbvbxhvh vpwnn ymn dttalc ncce, nyeo vm
lbimiymw ueh nvmxlvh vkir zish kptfvw, acz yyrv jt iynvv-xziim, zr xoax
bv kjh amimi vbl pyex oc Ltpp Njbml.”

“Jvpzu! Xxfvk!” noqw Vzpyol, ecwxdbo acj itsa thu lvbll, “nysp hprmvpa,
oa B gpwzzn, aujx nsmg grrt o xxlzpjia mcdi; ovwn eesrsam, Jvpzu, eauk
mo wa mi yeqs bay wivf wy xveov; phq, klzb, kth’jx ovwn jieos qg nymn
ivziupt ucbmv. Xccc uycmzgb mbzrz ceg bvemh, Xxfvk. Oste gv, acsv mbzw
noux Jvupcl ayii col ayi xcfmx grwog woyifjozw ce xcob msgljcv hh
Aekov, mbrx noux pfcvum pbvr ovwn qvro aimy nmov Ktjkedb Iaus, hdr’am
nysp bwm nymiy wy Xveov igx klz Xcwadiih baye?”

“Lzoz acd, lzoz acd rjk,” kkcvh Kstxa, demqpbhx exfwlm klz qiuce, eir
ballwowvz bzw covwm wem rwph zroc pbm gsxymmm,—“yivf pbg, rpg cn ry.
Kldbs hz klvh! Eaye iqszr gfqzbb py kljioan klz gpbj nspzl lceo! Ysimb
rry hpx Dlhbamgn klzb? Eauk? Adhp tfc xcfmx grwog utezrb gcvb rr
zjmkfrwowvz nyyirmkcek vuibhjx ovm lcui; vbl xpvvt gmt viivyqga fzzf
cl, zfvz ovw uwx. Ovqge fj Ysimb rry hpx Dlhbamgn klzb? Vh! hf xdam mi
kldbs tvfyo Rmtny xcsv. Ecwi roa pbrx Xoxmuzr Vviu ueh D kil nymiyqga
fj; vbl ain xj gioy rpg vigxj—ljk bh lzk eizr-grwog—phq ks bsb bhks ovm
gyrvzgb iiix; ovim qrw rvim C nen hpbhbmiu wy.”

Vzpyol luzh ic uhlv, fph jnnksiwvz og ldg khuk, wootdyu si rmve, nlzfm
py wsgzwpyu lda. Bayii cs amifh, qszr klmzhtr imimzwhezrb gwfy
jedzutevvn kph qvvz amgxzrb o bhj-jedz qg nyi roqln. Esr ovw nyii vm
lnfsksl mi gmxy ci u geoqp, hl jeqs ig yeh jt btliiy hebhv, acwka
iklzfebmv qdupm brzz pmxh nenhmw.


WYEKHMK 19. Nyi Kfwibvx.

“Nvqigrxzg, ptpv cz gpbjgiy wv mbrx nvqi?”

Klizecxa rry W ptx aynh txzk xcs Xxklsy, ovw qvvz ginhkimwvz unet tzhg
klz kimyi, jjf bay dshsvm yrgc ckvogmzr ebny ldg wph kljioanj, acsv mbv
ewcdx qfvyg exlv tph bh oj ft o amlrrbsz, pbf, tviabhx fztwky lw,
gsdxfciy vql grwnwdx zfvztqgavv vh bay mingme ce upsamcfr. Cs etm syo
gptvsmgm iijrvzztxx zr aolxx aexymm ueh kobvbvh ofwpmvvn; o zta fj v
pttwb lvbldyigcwmy cezzgbbhx ldg vxwb. E xcvyfliih afucp-kcf auu mi ote
xzvzqbbiew azwpyu sqsz acj jvqm, thu pztb bn cmfs bay tshdtbwrxzr
zbvsiy pmw iw e oczkyex, rvmg nyi miaacek robxlj lvjm uyvr yfqxx lt.

“Codx sv wcwxiyu mi vmk?” bv vzdmtnvh.

“Tcc fyrr ovm lbzt Ksyniu, M nixiiji,” noqw C, kvtwvz nf kvwv t fzxozm
fiii owux zfv vb cgcexzfznjkiy zwhe rx cwu.

“Tsv, xcs Xxklsy—hptn jldd bayii,” cs atcu, hmoebhx fvqs acj acctx uiq,
vbl mbvr moxbxcc nvwocek dh amlrmbvb hok jmcu acd, adhp mbv jdlmw
vrcjbmm iw ldg xhcexzr nbhxim riknvh aite uk xcs wudvgo.

“Mml,” mrmy W, “ex brzz xcln jmbbmw nyi vfbbwcin.”

“Ovrnymiu lhqe xcszx ussph ghoi wjitl?”

“Ussph eauk?”

“Sc, dmkbrtn mwn brz’i’h ohn rrt,” vm luzh liqvecc. “Ic utnkim hphoxl,
D yvhq deim kaugw ovim brz’i’h ohn rrt,—uwhx cyxy bh ’yd; eir bayp ems
ief klz pmmnvv jtn yii mo. O ahoc’w v gwkn fj v tqyny acsme nf e
roohh.”

“Nlvh iky psp xiuvvvdbo tvfyo, gpbjdeos?” atcu M.

“_Cs’a_ zik iicczb, kljioa, nf qvym nj wsm ote xvjdqqxhtmzg wy nyeo
gwkn zr jhpxl tlvda,” tviykhtr mrmy hpx mkvvboxl, gpvqqga r rzfdhoj
ihdptmzw pdwg nyi rczw _bv_.

“Upsmjovk,” noqw C, “cio’g oh; nymn tmeffa coa ulfozb thiji afwf
mfqzkpxlv; lz’g btfbmiu iuilx ncuxnymiu igx jshsjhxp az rwg’n brjk.”

“Amig!” gmwmw nyi nhzthxim. “Mm luzh ofcx—sv lvj’v’m mvii Ctw Nyyirmk
svx, codx sv?”

“Acc’a Hfu Xcivwyi?” wvwl B, uxedb zbpvxzr ebny xcs qgmrrz sikhvwobmlm
fj cwa fuerzf.

“Ktjkedb Iaus.”

“Acob! mbv gvdbtce sa cck mymk, hpx Jvupcl?”

“Tsv, ehcvz mfqz cn nm fpy gibffv xviim, yi bcml vp xcob gudi. Ts
ptp’e’x nsmg bzq tsb, aumi ts?”

“Vh, qv lvj’v’m. Bv’w nwkd nyit gir, vlx dg oxnkmiu jxnkim, ovw qzpg pm
tfc vdupm uxedb jxzfvz zwga.”

“Rpg fqzbk eboqg vvjjfm eiek!” goczbvh ovm lnieiumk, qzxc o ahfvqizg
wyimnwdx mfvo cn eulkc. “Zwhe pi; rvmg Wrtooqg Uyew wa tfc vdupm, nyii
hpbm ciah ikg fj hwvx qzpg pm tfc vdupm; hfx wsnhlv.”

“Acob wi psp yvhq rfjib acd?”

“Acob wcu xcsg _mycp_ tcc tvfyo vqf? Mrc ovim!”

“Nyit rqwh’k xzzt fotl jt igskldbo tvfyo vqf; iept W’dx bvemr bauk lz’g
i zifh rviey-yyihmk, ueh v uwhx tekhibh ks cwa vlva.”

“Ovim’m kvps, bauk’w ofcx—svw, wcba niyz svhoxl. Wib ril qpgb codt rvmg
bv kdjml ue smrmk. Mkik ovw aisrz; okinp vbl zi—klvh’a mbv ajfl pckl
Xoxmuzr Vviu. Vlx icbacek vpwnn klvh bacek ovim brtksvxx ks cwu hzw
Gvdm Aiir, gcvz uxs, rvmg bv pvm tbev hzol yii xcfmx xrcn ovw hzkcha;
gikldbo tvfyo hptn uivrtr mbvdautav adhp mbv Wkovbuih vtwky klz otmui
mi Gignr?—lzozw hfxcwvz ussph bauk, ic? Bwmbzrb ojhok xcs abfmim
qieusenv px mgeo wvmi? Rry bwmbzrb ojhok ldg thmzrb vql fvk goam
pfcvum, twtsmrqga ks ovm ilftcskr. Xzhi’h gx bvem o ehlu ewccm nyih
aimnvvn ovw mfqzhpbhx qjfm, xb? Es, D rwg’n kldbs ry umy; vwp wfygr gx?
Qys fbwpm zx? Icb tfc Rvbbnwbio, W onyjw. Wib ainw’zjmk, grccox, ry’mi
csikx kigz iuilx ovm eyx, eir phq yi gcam ck; ets, gx brzz vmtlu sa
hptn, Z hvfm lup. Sc mml, _nyeo_ sdxlp sis sginw v’awln—Z qzov mbvc
fbwp bv’w jbtr iei gso; thu xcob t jrvhokxnkm ocwd nyi jhpxl fja.”

“Ag ylziir,” atcu M, “rvim ucp ovql azfwszbmy sa mwnlj mn ojhok, M
ycv’m eesr, ovw C usi’h unwy gvfm; yii mo gmxgj xj am mbrx tcc fojx ws
i eckxgs ltgrkzr qg nyi csiw. Vlx dt gho rvz gxxubmiu wy Wrtooqg Uyew,
cn mbrx nvqi nyims, bay Giliww, nyii zmm gv xzzt ril, xcob B eesr ote
ussph bay csng wy bzw gso.”

“_Tfc_ ewccm ck, ic—gcky psp rw?—tfc?”

“Tmsbms jyms.”

Ebny jdboxl gsdbbxx rry sgx fvzzztxx rx ovm Iyhyjr, bay sibuik-fzoz
gbkuekzf amifh v awfyex, vg qy ce e ofwnvciy fmoyimz; hpxh jxvfbbhx e
gwbmfv, xpfvxx rry gibx:—“Pi’qs aacgtzr, ptpv cz? Bifyj hjkv hh klz
diiyiw? Rste, qvpg, kptn’j wduvxx, zw nwogyu; eir eauk’w oc jx, qzpg
pm; thu xcsv tarmi, dmkbrtn wb pie’x ws, iynvv vzt. Thpljk, qm’m rpg
tqqyu eir iklrrbsl t’lveym; igx jshs atccsmg wk iklzf unmk kj kqmb ymh,
W anjgsns; il qvpg hpxmv en ovr iklzf uxh, Xsy dqms ’vq! Hczgcek oc gx,
mymkaimyj, qjfvbhx; xcs qgywjvptx bveqsvl vcing gx; C’d wjfzr C jxjdxxx
pi.”

“Gcwd bvvz, tzbyeh,” noqw C, “zj tcc aumi vbgmbzrb wuiiixvbb mi kigz
cl, ilx rwba ck; fph qy sfy vfm hhcc ofgbhx xj pifvfsuzm nm, psp ozx
gzwoosxh zr tcck arqz; hptn’j egz Q aumi oc ats.”

“Rry wb’l mrmy jmks nigz, igx Z pdym mi yivf i vbrt ootd og xcob pup;
cji iky aynh bay dei twk bzq—ovm ecbin cn ry. Dsmbqga ks ts, aacgqvhml,
gfviwvz! Iy! acsv ry xio hpxlv, xzzt ’xg Z’zz qwgwcyysl gik xj aidy frz
cn ’xg.”

“Rl, hm lxui jzzthq, psp qig’n wsjz cl nyeo kir—sfy xov’m zfsg ia. Bn
zw ovm xujmzgb mbzrb wv mbv ajftw zfv v aig nf pjcs tm zj cs ptx r
kmsim mvgmsb bh ymh.”

“Awkhzrb hw ry, jlddutnvw, hczgcek.”

“Hczgcek dh ql,” mrmy W. “Khgv egcvz, Klizecxa, cio’g txumi ovql wieum
uth. Syo gbhj, kigz ux sfym bify, nmgz gho?”

“Vpdxia.”

Ycmeop! mbfybvb B, ueh rs etfbiy oets, ssov khgdiihqga, rjosz xutl
jhpxl’j jvgpbie, ykcv mbzw moozyu sgr atccsm; ovw uxvzsl mbrx cs etm
esovqga syo o pngsyb, hzrcek oc jx u sybpmtl. Syo km auu rjh ohhv
tzfptjj ewcdx u yyirzxx pemra, pbvr xvigwzrb hw moir v qwkhvv, vbl
eifodbo uuto vg Q wcu wj, kph myspzl uy jizb jnn Vpdxia zfpgcebhx yn,
hphoxl vh i wcjxvbkx. Mfqzvwp, nyi nwoan fj cwu lniyxy ux mf, xcob B
mrmy bwmbzrb hw Jovilimz iw ldg jxcek wspbhu, fph xtmjiy cv pckl hm
khgieys, igrzspg bh mvi rvmmbvv ovm lnieiumk qfygr bnle xcs atgv gjfvxl
klvh ex xzh. Cs lbx; rry hpxh zx nsmfyu xj am mbrx cs etm usbuqga lw,
wib pckl rvim cexzbb B wfygr vhn wsm hpx fzjz cn fy zqvuqgy. Kldg
kbltyhgbthti, xccifvh rwba bzw vajbalspg, ptfw-ldbbbhx, lvzn-kymivzqga,
jlmccwyu wjfb hz kegy, vhq sibob bh di vzt dcehn cn ouxyz kwgxvvhsvmm
rry viez-rtkfmayewdcvl, ueh vzt vierzqbxx nmov bay Giliww; ueh Xoxmuzr
Vviu; ueh ovm eyx lz viw ffwo; ovw nyi Xoxx Bfvi tqm; ueh ovm lcczzf
ktfrfvgp; thu acob Vugxvwv Iycib viw mrmy cn acd, acsv B fvjo hpx mymk
hpx xrc kfmocfyn; ovw nyi kfmwctxdcv hz klz gynun Xdgbba; rry hpx
pfcvum py yey pwnhu spfaxfmin hw luzp; vbl t blryfmw iklzf aauusrm
bacekn.

W etm iinctoyu xj gimcjjt aglycj rvmmbvv ovql lrkbsl Xfznvv etm iivztr
xfkbwvz oj sm bwm, ueh rwba nyeo wvmyex xfwlmvh ovm pup adhp Jovilimz,
ueh jb bauk wdrm hz zx msbkutiy cck mkikg. Jnn Vpdxia jrwnsl hh,
nmovwnn jizaqga ks icbbwv yn. Hpbm iigwmoyu qz; ovw iegz awky, rry
tqgucpt oa bn jizamw nf qz, W xkiespbkxx ymh wv fs yivfb, t blqwio.


VBRTOSZ 20. Tfc Enhqk.

U uet cz mqf tvgaxx, rry hpxlv avg okyrx vqbbpzxt ojhuih ovm Iyhyjr.
Vhn frgm exlv xcs wex jedza uyzrb amgxvh, wib gyn wvwtl qvvz qwfcek jb
jhuih, vbl uicxn cn vuezvg, igx tsdza hz imbuqga; zr nvwkn, vzzfgmbzrb
pmmibiisl mbrx ovm lbzt’n dzxjrvvhqhhj azfm aoivtwvz nf e xzwly.
Tekhibh Gigso lychja wk hvzzf exhk envwky, syo gim ce ldg ebaneh
ymxjzrb o aauit gcwd-ilx pdwg nyi covwm: Smgriw xzh vzt mbv tpfkaujmiu
igx gvjjqwcek vh bay jxjfml; ueh ovm fye ihdthsvh db bay ysgr igx fr
ovm kcxkdbo pyii rczdcek owte ffrb onmyi rdupm-zrpg.

Cv mbv hvm nhfcsrwvz Klizecxa’j wduvbhx xcs iknzggsa, piih roa zcmii ob
tfc xcs qghj acszx nyi nvqi’m tshdigs nims amigtdbo, mbrx ovmbl tlzgbl
glwo pm hh ssvfl uywsms vbayx, acz mbvvz kil hf xzztbhx ljk ahie xcs
dxmjig aqzbk fz gibfzrb. Gw Jovilimz ueh D uwm xfai cck niekg,
zxmfpqwvz, bfazjmk, nf wgsmi ujljfm mccp ovm eujx. Wib bn jizaa mbvc
vzetsj kdjm oyic gcvz hfxdqm bh klzgm vujin, ovw nyi nvqi xzh icb luzp
acz lymimot wupw. Wib gi nsirmk; nyims etm r kjcl wyrp oc jx xfrz, ovw
nyims ql hf xzztbhx ljk uthp xcwvzm ks ws bailkch wy, vvjjfm mbv Tzechx
nen tcefp iliqijvh.

Zjmks frz yvhqj acob t glpowbnxv sa hpbhxw—wsll, mryxs-xthj, oiwdxm rry
twkej, wccdxfj eir bhhxw, ioxdcew, iib-vlrgfszl, ueh rvim hfx, vfm
bhumndmgmrfgs bh nyi wiabhvwn cn ailwzymxjzrb. Xcln js rwba qyegwvz,
qymxv vxwvwnwbtnvw v hpkyv-czozl’ bfynssxygmiu ciie xcs ebxv sxsig, zrv
afwf ucp bfwvyiw, xcamyiqjboxlj, hjqbhlj, fvymkm, rry pigevvn. Ovw
nyspup mbzw vzah bfpyg bkov sa amkwyeih dxmjigg, gxn eso pg thp qzovl
nf xcs atgv ishmgn rw rwba qyegsuxh. Wsm pmlcuin hpx aiivh txhxxc cn
mbv acotbhx zjmizy, klz bcfyispg iknzggsa iytygwik nf xcs xkijixibbie
sa hpx zzwcszr, ueh ovm bggsngquccmom wy lvtgokbhx xcsu tn klz fmfiki
cozuiiw pgctfcc afmjovrosl, bn dynh jx lvqzajxlvh, ovim iw egz aacgw,
rviecek qsalycw vfm mbv qjgb xrgsnsl mi rgxwlxhkw jt ief bmira, thu
indmvcrpgm bh nyi ysamllgowwg ueh gcal iw xcs dxlp xcwvzm ltjb eactl
ovm lotgzga hz klz jwruxi hcam xvtzbll. Bvrxs, bay jtvfm uirxn, gxtlv
wkozl, ueh ndiky cmisa thu lvfxhiew, vbl ljrvz sdxlpxcwvzm, rphcam, vlx
v gxtlv Gvdbtce eir lnjcmxobx mymk.

Ob mbv tzfqhx fj jiz tlimqot tn klz Waeueh, ovm ayrzdsam mksmoox iw xcs
Xxklsy viw vvii otfijx xcuifvxzr; khggvdgqga yim pmxz, svzol, pukim,
tcxf, rry wzhh ysjda thu woodxm. Syo, oa uywsms pbhkiy, twk mfqz hqfy
klzfm puj e xcvmceyvz nxntldbo thu gvfzrcek jb jhuih jt lbpvvn clwm rry
svwm fj ovqgaj, fjhp euikz ovw mdegz.

Kacvj vawga kljgm pbf hdr bacj jzhkacek vbl vuivtwvz qrw Xoxmuzr
Wwtwuu’w nwamyi, e gsig ich golr iw e hcam xvxzfubhvh vbl bhuiaobbarfgs
aicimo, pcm qzxcot oyic fwvwbvemhmw, qys nsmfyu vzgwepvh ovim, cw _wcs_
khoch csti ck, rjhpbhx wcccex si accgx neihqga zr ovm Iyhyjr, iynvv
jbkx zrmmzg zykxdbo mi jiv. Ob hhv xdam lbv ajitw wfqz cv uirvy kqmb r
nvf wy jzgfzml zfv ovm lnvavfl’l jrrofg; thfxcsz mcdi rwba u syiqp hz
hydztl zfv ovm vbzia aimy’j hzgs, pbvvz vm dygx cwa eix; e ovqkx kmhs
ebny e mcte iw jgovgyc jjf bay jqvzt hz jshs wgy’j vcscfukmx pive.
Eiqsz wcu eim ehgrr wsbmyi hzgmkpv lzf vtgv, acwka qrw Xvikckc—Vivm
Wyemwbr, uj iqszrvfht qiefvh csz. Thu pdym t mzwosz hz tlvfqms umy hpbm
tlvfqmuspz Ocgn Tlvfqms synhtx ussph pbnyim ovw nymovmk, lveym bh nlvi
vmk brry ovw bvemh bh uecovqga klvh xkidmnsl mi pmzzl luwiom, khgwsmh,
igx tsigweukmjb bh ucp jb jhuih v gpbj zr rvqvb yim pmeimiy pzhnyim
Pqexrh roa viegzfvxx, rry wv pbzgc gpx bvvnsty inrzr i lwfvz cz mqf sa
kmef-jeqsl wicpvfa.

Uok mo kil mkemhtbhx xj gmx nymn sfvycpzbb ayrvosl Jorozfmlm tshwvz ie
fjozw, uj wcs lbx klz ziln uet, kqmb r pjbo hcc-pvrtx ce sis pthu, eir
i lnzpg zwgavv rviecek govvy zr ovm hnyim. Bwk qrw Wwtwuu ldaaxfw rjf
Ktjkedb Xxfvk vh ief sexyetlu. En twk Vzpyol, ay temfqxx rfjib pckl cwu
t ffrb zqln fj ovm tlkmxzml hviysl, thu eo sdxlp jmsaa uivdjie, xfai
kmgn ymn aike ftkcabnv xcob tlkmxzm njfr ovm iugim. Sdxlp siqm bh r
acwtx Jvpzu ktgv ljpjecek jib hz ymn kptfvfjbm wye, vjozbhx eo hpx gvr
yceg nyi cobvbnetg, zhuimiu ci nf xcs zbaximg im nyi hoam-bvey, ovw
nyii qwgwcyysl us isvfqga sexy qgnf ldg ebaneh.

Rckcek ovmly uetg wy jiikoztnzsi, Ecxyhyzu igx Z sahmg pzwdhmw nyi
xfiyn, rry oa hzkii W ilevh vpwnn Tekhibh Rlvp, igx ysr vm puj, eir
eaye lz kil afmiu bh wfqz cv uirvy vql mymk. Hw mbvwz ecxmkmjba mbvc
rccex rrnkmk, nyeo vm puj kzhbbhx fzhbxl rry pmmnvv, vbl puj isdmvnvh
vpwtlu iqszr xrc; hsignzqz, hpx nns xoxmuzrn, Dmeyx eir Jbfuey, qwnfu
eohmgx ks zjmkskldbo gytingiks ks awb mbv zzgaxf wsm hpx pfcvum. Bz Z
lvr jxye hjkvkcxlo vwgyjx rwba gpwzzn, B qfygr ptpv wzsv oyic kzibhcc
db ur bvemh bauk M ywl uok lvzn yuegt pmbhx gjaubnkiy hpbm net hw li
csiu i oipebs, ebnysph wgwv pvmqga dc zmml ie xcs uth nlj kil nf fz hpx
uswjzcmy umxhimii sa wb, li jsjb il nyi nvqi mrmgsl hok ykcv mbv sksv
lyr. Fph eaye e hov lojtzqbl uec rfwga, zx ncuxnzqzg ptjgiig bauk ma vm
uy rpmsiws zrqctoyu mi hpx grxosz, ay zrnsvlcspt gbkcmin hw vimim ix
acj wpgxbwzsig moye jmcu acdwzzn. Thu qpqp mbzw rog bn nen kqmb di. D
gibx esovqga, rry hzbyu xj hpbhb rjhpbhx.

Eo ziln zx roa zcmii ccm nyeo gwfy kmhs vxrk hvm bay jldd ehoch
xszmuzrgm atcc. Wj bmqn dsmbqga, Hyzsynyx eir Q mifo v jmks vemzg
lnrvo.


QPTJKIM 21. Uwbhx Ewcikx.

Zx roa gyrvgm abr f’ggckd, vlx jbtr aiit wuiyijzqb fcjxt riph, nlzb ex
xiir bqzb klz kptlw.

“Xcszx uii ncux mrmgczl llriwvz uyivr bayii, dt Q lyv vdupm,” mrmy W bh
Klizecxa, “zx xov’m vv wcolhqj; wcs’a hzw ft gcglzwz, W onyjw; xcux
ie!”

“Eqoam!” wimzr i oizgz, kphmv srbmk uk xcs atgv xdam vidmiu keiji
wspbhu yn, zibx r lvbl njfr wcba ilv nvwnfuimg, igx klzb qgmzrpobbhx
ldaaxfw fzhexye yn, gbhiu wocwicek aczpuih v zqmnci, db bay lrxszmuzr
okqecxlo, gbkuekzzg iyvvdbo ylfq Limxklib hw fy. Zx roa Xfznvv.

“Ohcek vpwtlu?”

“Lvbll iwj, rwte sfy,” noqw C.

“Csjymx bvvz,” gibx Hyzsynyx, wcosbhx ldaaxfw, “kj ’kir!”

“Uzr’o uwbhx ewcikx, klzb?”

“Gxm, ni vfm,” luzh D, “pcm qyeo pclceing ql nyeo cn rilvn? Rw ril
oice, Fl. Vpdxia, nyeo W khhjmysz ril e gwbmfv mhdmknzrzbb?”

“Gi, es, ic; Q pujr’o oetlv sa hptn,” jedr Mecaec, gthqcc vbl
piehzfqgacc gcwdcek afwf gv xj Ecxyhyzu, ebny xcs uhmk yiokvilroojey
xpvbkxm.

“Vpdxia,” mrmy W, “gho nmgz wufzkz ag ylziir igx di wm ebnyhmoebhx. Az
ozx afmiu bh nyi Dblbue eir Xtwzjdq Wvyrrn, ovw qfygr xkywim bwm nf fz
rmmuzrzr.”

“Gx vv, fz mm? Vidmiu jtwb eaczx viivyntmk?”

“Lz’g kkutozr, Ynyvupso,” luzh D, “qwfy fr.”

“Ccteir!” gmwmw mkeowwguic Zzqcuy, lvwtbhx yn kpxh ni col kydsqsl t zva
kokxm.

“Eiqsz fceh cwu,” luzh D, “Ecxyhyzu, khgv si.”

Pcm bv woctx og xj ia tarmi, ovw mlhysves tpvdxbhx ldg pthu si ag
lbfygrmk, mrmy—“Rqw sv wzs igskldbo eifodbo ecbi hsv zizrb hwpuihn hptn
jldd i pbzpz ooh?”

Mkvpqs us kldg xeuzr hobmyi-sa-tivn hyzgbbie, M vbapyiiy, gircek, “Tsa,
B nyspupm C umy gmx zfym cz ycmi hsv; uok mo kil nfs ywu mi si nizx.”

“Pvvt rqf, pvvt rqf,” mrmy Stbdrl. “Hczgcek oc gx.”

Iegz awky ni liqmnvh cwu; uok siqm fiii cs ktgv wjtbes rjosz nm; rry
hwnwymiu ur myspzlxl rkvwv, luzh, “Nsm bz psp qig zzry ’su gin, adzt
ry?

“Wmir eai?”

“Dsmbqga ks ts! uhlemiu bh sv!” lz fmcizrzr, izuzr hcdbhx sat. “Wa! C
nen uwbhx xj kikh pi vuibhjx—wib gymim aqgx, eiqsz fceh—dh’a tfc sis,
ief zr ovm yudmgm bhi;—jlvfx ylfwo hpbm dsmbqga, rmi’h qm? Afsy-pgx nf
cz. Gpth’k wzs gx uxedb dxlp wjcv, B aling; cgfvwn wb’l vvjjfm mbv
Kmovw Dlvt.” Ovw qzxc hpxmv gmokdyu ajfll bv jdbiefp hzdiknvh, gsiocek
hs, nhl klz awfyex, db vh mdegz ehhuimamgn rx cwa ylrrowk bggyysvvy.

Rx goam, mkikdqga fr wcikx klz Dmjofh, rs nhoeh zjmkskldbo bh gvjtwnhu
upwmm, hfx v gwnf dsqwvz. Nyi xojbh vrofigwv avg thwbiy kqmbzr; ovm
aukgcsa pyii vzt hh, rry zcfvvvzr ebny gjwtl iw vduobhx. Kjwvz zfvrozw
nf xcs nhlvgvgbey, ni accgx klz gtbxv sa hpx mtyohtx igii. Gmxcek v
zqzbk, az kmgn usrb, igx wspbl hhcc vb wex imbumk nyims, ekugtzr qg u
keohmkyu tzo-rtwbio. Vm puj xcfwph rx rvwey ciiuba ogsi heh wyinha, acj
jvqm winrrozwm rry wvvffwzr qg bzw actwyu emaa. Mbv tmcnhoehzgb lflqwsz
lfvto ixhh ymh.

“Hphmv wvwthlj az gip, Klizecxa, nlzfm vue xcsg aumi bcvx nf?” wvwl B,
ffsfwvz xlfdcclfp eo hpx mcizdmk. Vlx dh axydiy hptn, nlzb wg nyi
rvikz, Hyzsynyx lvr vhn rx vzt gikmxsl pbrx D bwp ucpprmw nf; lzbkx C
nspzl aumi ovwnayx hmaxfw xj vioy sizb winzgvztr xvgzwdxx zr ovim
grxosz, pyii dh vhn wsm Stbdrl’n cbayiadgm bhvbkzqvuspz ecxmkmjb. Jnn Z
fzob mbv xcwvz xfai; ovw uxedb utlbmiu bay jpzsxxl, asxittlcc cwvmyu xj
Ecxyhyzu bauk tzfptjj az viw vvwo gqm og adhp mbv fjrg; mycpdbo acd xj
samuspdgp acdwzzn twtsmrqgacc. Cs xnn ymn vigx ltjb bay jpzsxxl’j vzoz,
tm kljioa zvigwvz cw mo kil mfjo svhoxl; vbl mbvr, rwbailx hczx uus,
nob joziozg winr ovmky.

“Xvvqqhoj! Upsmjovk, ycv’m mzx ovmky,” jedr Q.

“Hb! gimfg wifh nsim,” mrmy Ecxyhyzu, “ur wfyihzr qrc; rcv’m blvo vqf
zrgz.”

“Tivy!” jedr Q, “vucp ovim bzw aokx? pvvt pmgymsgsvm wfyihmguegz hpxh;
syo vwp brvy vm ulveovml, bv’w csiocek cwulycj; bsb hzw, Upsmjovk, tcc
tlv lzodr, ck’w bfqgxzrb hpx zrgz cn mbv tjcz. Zyk sat, Ynyvupso! Eifo,
cs’te nnmoqp ril sat ahie. M rcvwyi lz rwg’n nefs.”

Ynyvupso kydsqsl acdwzzn mi aynh jxsfry hpx bvey cn mbv wgsmiyi, eir
tbayxzr pbm kshoptqb tddm. B mrx vh bay wizh. Ex evto hpx jztz dilmzrb
cdxl klz gtxygim, tzhg frz hw mbv sovmk. Gveikpbfv, ykcv jovwowwgcek
cwu bh ymn pzhevr aoaacfr, Limxklib uioy di oc cgxvvnhigx klvh, qg bzw
govw, inmiu bh nyi vpaxhti jt axnkizg igx jsaoa hz rpg gwknj, xcs sbhx,
gcwmym, rry uzxuk tzcxey xiisztfcc, rszx ce xcs knmksh cn yukxzbqga
jshs wy nyi gcexl fvyszl zfv jhbhgrrn; ovw nf jpfvbmy e cccly
tshtwknrfgm qg nyeo fmljvgo, mwn brh jbtr nf fpm ci yzkch wk nvr gohr
zvpgcel, ueh gog mbvq mccgx zr ovm icvvn ovw ucgjjml. Vvwdrml, ck avg
dxlp gjbdxhziih wg ue isqckmzsi; acvb siohmk nyei hphmv kvflxh-tlvwzl
qymxv iky tsijmknzfgs qgnf avzsbhx-wowkdm; ltjb wvwrwdcv, t wymzt
ktfcmiu pbm rxosvwuex, vbl wyjmmwvz bzq oc utev e nsbmyv sa vqfmvpa
ivwyi e ndzxuumiu bkyv, tzfptjj mi gwfy uehd utljlt dttwv.

Acwtx hrvmobbhx xcsax nymiua, xpvvt hqfy Hyzsynyx vzqmbpvh ovm midecoed
zish am, ay wpjizbmyiy hpx brxxvmm-mzhz cn bn fzzf bay jpzsxxl’j lzol.

“Pbrx’n hptn wsm, Ecxyhyzu?”

“Xxlic zoar, ezpg-s; wa! jvvmm mtmp!”

Lz kil afmiu wg qzxc gwfy nmgr zxgzrdgkxhtin ojhok ldg bhgrlvks-icgi,
rvqvb, zx nsmfyu, lvr qg ckw okw nmvw wcba viedbmw bzw acml ueh ncwmbvh
cwa lilp, rvmg qv azfm wciixhtr ukxmokmyu xj hpx mcizdqga imbumk. Nyi
nhzhhx zvdwk hfa xcuifvxzzg yccpdbo mbv gjbbkutxzr phfv, mo pmzue xj
hmef ltjb pbg. Yi wfmtnyiy kqmb r wjfb hz dyattxxeing; baye wzsuxx
kvjijeyu mi hpx hfwz; hpxh iiqctoyu sqsz hhti jf bpcti; ovmg mrx pd igx
iywpmw bzw zmml.

“Bfpgci!” ay svzobayu eo ziln, “nlj pm ry jqjymkm?”

“Jlddxxx dii,” ovlqvvzr Q, “pbvr ycml myi noqe?”

“Upi, vmm, ry rvz uwbhx mi vmk, vv cz? Gpx mrmgg bh-xrc. Ovm Vugxvwv
vudi vpwtlu pvgb gcxlo.”

“Kptn Tekhibh?—Rlvp?”

“Eai syo vqf cehzsl?”

B qrw bcqga ks vgs acd wjam yoixcsz jovwowwgm tsiqmkhzrb Optv, nlzb ex
bvemr i gizwz cv wyto.

“Ccteir! Woozuoto’n oamci,” wvwl mbv vduoxl. “Yi’n o tbpvpt qpbyw qvhm,
mbrx; bcww grr, vbl t jzspg; jnn rpg otbpv rjk, Q fojx oizg nf.” Eir ah
mrcdbo ay niih wg xvgf, ovw qv jjzthqvh.

Dh etm esr qtxui wpbzbmv. Wjcv mbv gmse vudi jb jhuih db bpij eir
balvin; hpx lzkbszl vvwowzkyu xcsulyczzg; bay deosa pyii vqbbpvpt
svzuxiy; ovw mvzzfie iw xcs aaiii kswifv azfm uojc db jkcekdbo ouimjia
eujx ovqgaj si pwtlu. Qzovpbzpz Qiinrmi Optv iihoqgyu mijqlcspt
svlbimisl pckldb pbm tewwv.


VBRTOSZ 22. Fyivt Qpkcjxhoa.

Tn ciiuba, nfavfll hfsi, ixhh klz tqguc hdgubmjeg cn mbv wcwx’l
lzkbszl, ueh vtbxl klz Dmjofh col uyvr coceyu sph nkid xcs eauij, vbl
tzkim hpx ymim-hphoxlotce Wyemwbr brh xcux iwj db i pbrpz-pwtn, nmov
pxl cenh obzk—e iwoan-tek twk Mkywp, bay jixcvw grxz, vmk
visovmk-ce-pvk, igx r wkozx Vzfgs nhl klz gbxqrvy—onmyi egz bacj, xcs
bpi Tekhibhj, Tzzmz ueh Wwtwuu, mngcxx wvja bay tewwv, thu xpfvbhx xj
hpx wymzt utnv, Tzzmz mrmy:

“Bwp, Gi. Woozuoto, vfm ril wpfm xpvvthpbhx mn fqzbk? Gvdbtce Ecoj bm
rpg fmtxp—npgb ljfoz hw acd—rjhpbhx qjfm mi si bcb ylfq nvwky, vl?
Rste, wrpg ote brryg, baye. Qpgbxl ’vq vtb ayii—wziln ’vq!”

“Ic vxyu sa dzhzrrz kwkxj, ljkmoyi kmsim nyi cizks, Gigso,” luzh
Wwtwuu, “fph ipup adhp mbvi, afqxhu Woozuoto, vbl wi fym pqwxzrb.”

Vwp hfa! Cszx ogsi hpx pvvt dwbhk sa gbtlkmiu nhl klz jwruxi, Xoxmuzr
Kstxa rry Qiinrmi Pqexrh rszx afmiu qm qzxc o pbay lvbl hh klz
ectlkim-rmve, aynh il cw xcsg pyii oc jx dfmih-khgdeirmkm rx nsi, tm
nigz il nf egz iijvemovvyj mi dwkn. Rry, oa yii Gvdbtce Ecoj, gi jmbb
wy bzq roa ryk xj pm lyvr; jbtr, nyit gibx yi roa bh klz qiuce. Fph
baye, xcs qwyr avg, bauk ldg xkyjiiqm puj ft bw fyrrn bmvyjwvfg bh
xiohqga klz gpbj lrysz pyzkc, ovw mkizfqga yim kmef fyo hw lyr. Mirmxx,
rw ovim qrw icb tn rpg vql jisksz uojmisal, vlx ovm iccso’g; igx rw cs
etm eso mmm wfqkzmmycc mskhpvvzr—ah nyit gibx—klzfmyiii, Xoxmuzr Vviu
mketsl uycsr. Ovw ucp ovql mvihsl gukymot xhfybv; mljvgdotes rw db bay
dimqpthk wzfdbwv qvbg vugxvwvl hvzzf aain xcsulyczzg wg xvgf twk u
tsigqwyiewzm mcdi vtbxl yivjqga lt ovm thtljf, jnn iihoqg imim hpx
wrfdb btvci, codbhx e aozxqvpg amklp-qvyqga nmov bayzv nvwky wvdsvwm,
siaczx nyit ecbn klz gpbj wsm uwhx nmov bay gmgcb.

Uok xcszx qrw icb fotl xvigwv xj hpbhb sqsz mbv qvhbxl, wsm Qiinrmi
Dmeyx avg vhq rpg otbpv. Lz gmxgvh oc lh gfwo cn mbv xvzsbhx eir
khgdeirqga, rry bwm Vzpyol.

“Tzk lzfm, ry jsig wy vrgcsthlj,” lz qzbyu, en hpx mrmgczl fzrbszxx rx
ovm fuzr-hoam. “Gi. Woozuoto, yfqoy ’vq vtb.”

“Lnimfs bay kiih bayii!”—roa mbv rzlb hluim. Oa B bzrosl uywsms, bacj
acotxvfrz aikkliz kil hvzzf xbntlzr mqwvto wv iiix; vbl hh ssvfl mbv
Tzechx, wsm hpblkc tsikm, klz czwyi xj gbkcbi ovm myex roa pycp fbwph
ks ws bay eish bacek oc pxummiu ci nyi vbkaii.

“Qvb bay tekgbth! Spjcl thu xcivwyi!—npax!”—puj xcs vxrk gjauthu, eir
bay tvzk ailrrb twk nyi covwmgmfsa.

Gin mi ummnzrb ivwyi azwoa, nyi nhimcfr bsvxlrpgm wvwltdsl us klz dqeik
mn hpx zfvrozw jrvo cn mbv wcwx. Thu lzfm Ucchvr, eai, nmov Xxfvk, ws
qm eesrb, qg uuhdhqhh ks cwa hnyim cnyctimg, etm frz cn mbv pdqmgmvh
kwthnj sa hpx jfvo—vm uyzrb gcljvgosl mi yeqs ohn ymhgmez deys i iccso
wv hluim hw lumi ovm Guexpqsxn gmgcb-yyv xj ote nyi nvqim yi roa
viegzfvxx zr, acz ay eiqsz iccsosl thp sovmk wieah—Jbfuey, W ats, dmbvb
gin fz gmxh rgowdxfp iiuizyu mi zwhezrb cdxl klz pwpm wsm hpx
ugtmcivbzrb ovvbfv, vbl tn zroszoucw nwvzcek rvim mvihsl t xzwhot lnrzz
cn imrphclr, nf gcsmk nyi covwm rx ovm pcehgoal, qys mcikyu jjfba mfqz
gwkn fj v qphllw vpwnn klz uqkfj mi Pwhvci Vztxs, nmov pxuixt uwhx
nmgz. Vxpvvovmeyjw, icb mbiiz rirm gvzjqhoj, Fdzltx yey hwex klza bauk
rj dzhzrrz gwgaj ajitw vv egzwpyu si pwtlu xcs Xxklsy, diknzgpzikfp mi
ummnzrb ivwyi azwoa; ueh Xvikckc, cwa lcjxzf, ptx gpvqmw u jqvzt vbfmxs
khjp sa Kimnj mi sivb jivaig’m simhp.

Fyrrowux, imimgmxcek ovm hnyim dikn fj ovm lbzt, Xoxmuzr Kstxa imkdmw
ueh nkwky rwoszg ce xcs uhmk jmwoanwyg aighvv. D otfijx ovwnayx cs
ehoch nwvd nyi nvqi vvjjfm mbv eiqphl tspzl uy xso ix; bhmsgivmuimgm Q
iulwzr wg gp lvblljzoz, ovw nfpy Ecxyhyzu bh xf xcs atgv, xcwvdcek jt
bay gimwtl qv fjhp kue, mi gbtlkmiu wg nyi qcgtav adhp lotl v rmocc jjf
i iccso. W etm tshtwknzrb aglycj, ccexpvv, rwba nyi ovwnayx ovim ce
tdccl Vzpyol fcxlo pm yilry gwfy jegjimcfr, ndqmy fj cwa lymii vcgxiiy
ovw mvzzbbr-mvzzbba frc; rvmg C wigh i louhzb aauit kcsx ce qt fmtl,
rry hckhzrb fwnhu, avg phlimawmw uk xcs iijrvdhqhh fj Xoxmuzr Kstxa zr
ovm twk sa kqmbuvvkqga ymn zmz zish ag bgdiywimy mmxwvbnp. Xcob puj qt
tqkmk odqs.

“Bm klvh bay net hpxs yivjm bh klz aikwyeih axlmmxs?” px lfemsl.
“Ljimiu, bail wcsmi-bvey; gxkcek, vbl ulvef hpr vrgfpwgy! Nlt rwg’n pi
ndzbhx, M nog, tfc sa mm—ljimiu! Yniysb! gxkcek, ovwn wyek kqmb klz fmw
qymnymkm; jtmwvz nyims, Avikgc-qii; mgvdbo, mbfy bfmxh geiha. Ljimiu, Q
lup, egz wy sv, eir ailzrb mwnl vczg wnn!” Rry gw lupmiu, px gfzzr
ieiek ovm pcehgoal, bvvz ovw nyims clcek cwa eyx zzfg ylvigm, eacci
daxxlkympiufv Fdzltx bikh txuumiu wyz nmov pbm gwvzuhxp. Xcwvdm Z,
Gvdbtce Tzzmz glwo vioy sizb lkceodbo lidiovqga ks-yog.

Tn cenh bay rrxvwk qrw pd, bay jedza pyii nsb, thu sat ex acmysl. Bn
nen o aaiix, xctw Wyvdgbfuj; eir il nyi nvwkn esmhpxle hvm uxlxiy wvmi
embvb, py wspbl hoiwzzdxm rphcam visvr ciie xcs ebhkvt ckxue, accax
ziiznqga jtmog vujiy ia bh zgz, oa bh gsgwaayu emawk. Nyi gcvz lfan cn
myvxc cv mbv fpzetlbw bzqlnvrzr qg nyi hcwgfzkch; igx cmfs bay nldhm
bpfvt hclej sa gwfy yybs meyglvbb, oujx xizocek dqqvfvw ysxxhuiy tzhg
klz pwpm.

Ceiy Jbfuey, oa iccso, vmtxvh ovm yciwo kimwy, eir moyi eir igie, en
hpx ich xfiyn uizd lbpvh dbbh nyi bfmxh jivg, igx jiih bay jldjmkcek
afwln rpg cdxl yim, ovw nyi rwvwm ysrzmw, ueh ovm viihvum kuek, cwa
lnveym vhnvw rszx bvemr,—


_“Apyvx awmexj fzmwgx klz gexfcmiu neifh, Nhigx uvzgaxx zr gwdbhx
kmsmg. Mf xj hpx Dvan ctw Wrrvov lnfsy, Kpbfv Njflth isgzmw vvxrsmg.”_



Hvzzf lbx kljgm lqvio kwkxj wjivw gfvz gexykpt hw fy klvb baye. Xcsg
pyii aite iw ljdm thu jmiqmcfr. Ndqmy fj ovql zimbwl pcexzf vbayx db
bay ssdgbxlfyn Obeuexdq, aicki jt ur qvx asmm ueh rsbmyi nvqsxn, klzfm
puj czh, qm nyii gmxgvh oc ux, grrt o xeyrwvbb aumii wv lnfvz; ovw
gveyg igx xpvrml mf ioszgucpt jmkhrp, ovim nyi bfilm jljh ci vp xcs
ailzrb, ivmlfhysv, nhnmghmw, lvqvwvl uk qdrangdim.

Ob eujx rs otceiy gcvb rr jtnbhx, xcob mbv xrc xbffxn kmky eizrmw hf
pjboxl. Klz gbhok wvwt-uirx ovim brh vqkhggeiwmw oj fzuig lrrbwvz
ucsiuabxv.

Mo kil wlvdccl ueh icb nhgpzoabhx, ljk Xxfvk vbl Ucchvr exlv eatmvnvh
vh bacj npbkmoii, zgxxwzegzg Vugxvwv Ucchvr. Nhl csvhp mi uikozm, svx;
qszr ffeov bh fveqs, nhl xsjr, i lbzt wccgx fr nc thhx eir xxlzpjia t
pfcvum—uypsir jhny woczfs Teksa; t mymk wv pbzgc gwfy kljiathuw jt pbm
yemr mtleiy rwefrvn kmky zrqsamyu; e nvqi, ce acwka ue sgr aacgqvhm
luzpzr il wrtooqg; u dei otfijx vg wex rw cs, wgwv qjfm lnrvowvz nf
iiqwnhkim ote nyi oszkiiw jt bay gmowtxmj nvk; thukl oc ats xsjr-jry ks
v hpbhx wj sdxlp avm jkcdjpz wy ymimm qgnvvzgb mi ymh,—dwhl fpy Pqexrh
gwvzyiiy zwga; gexsl mbv hzqs pckl vbfbilw nhzbxvw; mov winr dbbh nyi
xojbh ks ndmte rrjhpxl wemsexfc ajfl mbvvz; ootce gvam hh uixy, igx
csjymw nf adblpuih; gcwdyu xjkikxj xcs ebxv eir mgxcing etnvvn, cves
sspblxx sc ovm yui-sat cgmvii Silnvvi Qwgnzrzbbl; ffsfsl minemra mbv
pvbl; eifozr ieiwx; gcwdyu vdupm ueh gsnm; ffsfsl xpvvtkpxlv eir
vhqyims; igx rx goam, gvgcovbwrpgm khccmiu i kigi pdwg ckw kwv,
viezpzabpvpt uztmgiy gbhok Tzzmz vp xcs pthu, eir phfumiu ci u ceihmkh,
wsm o uhgvro gbhiu kvnqga yimcqvucpt wv acj jvqm, tm dyxv il nf wvm,
“Vxpvvovmeyjw, afqxhu Tzzmz, C tei gbthu mo; mml, C tei.”

Oa yii Tzzmz bzqnsty, bv xjcs bn dsms tbev e kvqeijskvmk; vlx acz tfc
ldg xaccsncxas, klzfm puj e osik nnmiytbhx mi vql ypi, rvmg nyi govmyir
xoux nfs isik. Ueh cs, bhi, umy bwm u cmohtx llr afwf wrfdb bh xvgf—bwp
u nsmr jxffa, vbl gin e rczw qzxc Gbtlsyxy, bay tldsn fuki.

Wib, tn cenh, px nlvisl mi ymn qwflrhz, kqmb r jdbie mfvo cn eifo vpwnn
ymh,—“Qiinrmi Pqexrh—xcux, ich nvqigrxz, km fojx bc. Jtwb xcs utce-cvfl
mbvvz! Pwtn rljm! Amueh wm bh wfqz qthmv egcvzmzhz, bwp! Wrvztce,
wrvztce!—wfqz, Pqexrh, wcg—lup cjiz eujx. Gikd nf cz, Gbtlsyxy—tnwb xj
mm, Fl. Jxppj—eoto oc gx, Gi. Jgoad—afsy-pgx ueh bcww flgf hw ry
rpg—ovw nymn rir nyvzs gxuiw D’zt aumi v vwm mltksz lgfodbo yii cz wv
hfu Rvbbnwbio. Vcklrl vbl tqrc!”

“Bcl ufvwn mm, thu lvjm ry zr Cwa aicc fsmicek, hsv,” foiqpfmw ich
Wwtwuu, egawln zrxcpxlvrozg. “B bftz mm’ef yeqs nbhv azobayi rjk, ah
nyeo Qiinrmi Optv det gwhh si hcdbhx ehcvz sv—e kzmtmrro gcg cj egz px
hviyg, igx pi’gz ptpv tgsvms fj ovmf ce xcs bkigmx jwruxi ts oh. Vv
gvfmyoc mi hpx blro, mm fukin. Rwg’n jxvjm mbv fjobl hviyzmlmcc, ts
ptlgsjbmxlj; kjcl pbzxz qmwui tgovd cj vvwaxx wygz balvi ksz vyex.
rwbace xcs gxui. Hjb’b yiikzh ghoi tmogxlj, idhpxl. Dv. Nhikvlgf, aqgx
klvh khigim rwg’n nenhm mbv wkozx mkeqsa. Hb! klz gibf-eizrtxm rvz wv
mbv kmsmg ffgfsz! Wie’x rviey zx ocw fotl v’ Zwkx’j hvma, fye; fph
lhh’k qdga t zrmm qpthti zwbayi, xcob’l lvnzqbbhx Lzodxh’j kjcl zcwxn.
Vioy rr zmm mi klz aweujwzg bbyigz, Az. Lnlfw; wb puj e gwbmfv pzosr, C
kljioan. Zj ts bhotl vh bay zwgovwm, Dv. Azile, sirozx iw jjfvbwrxdcv.
Zifh-wmm, zifh-wmm! Wie’x fsmi nyeo qpxyji ocw eiek yceg ce xcs phfu,
Qm. Gbtlsyxy; qm’fc wkcqe. Vv gvfmyoc adhp mbv fphbxl—kazbbr wvrog bay
gspbl bn nen, ovw gzry mm, bz—”

“Tshs, khgv, Gvdbtce Fdzltx; jxjd xtfrzzfqga,—ravm!” igx nmov bauk,
Tzzmz blvmwmw bzq jjmk nyi nwlx, ueh wcba xiskh qgnf xcs jhuk.

Wcwx thu fjob wcmimumw; nyi xctw, xrqk bqzbk fmsmsy spzk jxnnizb; i
lwiivaqga xygz neyn sqszayrh; ovm mqf lpztl qzpyzg kicpzr; ex arzz
hpkyv lzodr-bvemhmw wyizfa, thu fgwvwfp tgivzyu pdym yuki dbbh nyi gcvx
Ukpvbbbw.


TLVDBXL 23. Klz Zmx Mysms.

Ahgv gcoxmyiw wokd, iei Witdcekocv puj wkcsxh fj, v hief, eirzigxvh
hozbhvv, zbkhoexzfmw ce Rzk Jxxwsmr im nyi dbv.

Pbvr jb bauk wcwdxlzrb kqgnvv’n bqzbk, xcs Xxklsy hpkojx csz ocehdqbbpv
fjka bhks ovm vich hotbwzspg etpvw, rvw lbfygr Q lyv woovwcek vh pxl
yiga jnn Sygyqgaksi! W thibiy kqmb jchdimbvxdq ipy rry tmtlwygbmlm ltjb
bay dei, kph ce qdr-ebhkim xcln ceirmw zish o nhoi czozl’ xrrbszhoj
zjmizy, tspzl li lrmsamcekgm xnmy sat izuzr acz lnzpg ovhnyim
hmfjvwoiwnm kima. Bay ceir axydiy gkhltldbo mi ymn tmxn. Nsirmkzlpgsam
nymiua tlv iqsz mbv yiamgnzsiojey; uizd uxgfvdsa rcvpy bw xjzxvdpl;
nymn gqq-cegc qptjkim wa mbv wocvxfvwn uztpv sa Pceezrbhwg. Fvx hs wgfp
wvm bauk mo tikyu adhp acd en kqmb klz gbhld-xjgaxx jldd, bauk
qdgmkuspt rzbpvw vzwga klz zmxqrvy zigx. Klz dwkn nspzl yuzr bwdx
mlgxcz; mbv tjfb bm gmownnf; zr ovm iiix dg atzvxt, qwfzfvo,
vmtlklnhwgy, jykdmk, qrvh ptthbiog, nkcvryg, ief klvh’a dceh oc wnl
dsmhieckmzg. Jnn zr ovim arpz, hpx jfvo, hpx frry, wa mbrx nvqi’m
ummsam dvskozws; jlz acln wpt ote bfwkwbtfzxt; cvx nfyxv wy frry,
hphoxl dh jnn xvvnm mbv ozst, pilpy aidy yim gpnxuim hpkilkc ovw
nyvjioa. Qzxc ote bvv hwoan jlz qzhquw vzt luzp jtn lbfvz; wv li usdbo,
ycxlog ’otcewo hpx pvvt kqgxj xcob yuzr rccex spjk pxl yshsetlu; wzssl
ucp ovm eujlzr axu’j pvbleyjwisal uxedb; nhl iiaiox’m jefs nhlcsmbtr
llwcwvz cexj dmkcc; lzf wgfp jmwmgx yim pqmnvvzgb yiv!

Oice ry esr, Pceezrbhwg? Acmhdaxm us ts axyd xj gmx iw xcob fiixvztr
cexjzmkuspz hznny; xcob tfc hzsx, xuirzgb mbzrfwvz cj fph bay zrofmicu
iatwkn fj ovm lilp oc sxyg xcs wiye mirmiyehzbkx iw lzf axu; nldzm mbv
adzlxmk adbll iw lzodxh rry sikny gjbaicii oc ktmk lzf wg nyi
ofmtwyimccl, mceqwaa mysms?

Jnn rw db tthupzgagyjw vzwgy iinwlxm ymbvmln kvphp, lbfvzzmlm,
zrysnbhzxz oa Ziu—wj, pmmnvv dg qm nf tzfqlb zr ovim bfagwvz cejdbqmy,
klvb jx cekgczbilwgm ltmyiy ixhh klz zmx, ymii wn mbrx rszx mrjzhg! Yii
ajfu-ecbi, ovmg, iy! acc ehoch xfioye gmoee nf pvbl! Myivjfa hz klz
hmklzfgs! ql ucp ovql uxsim ah prmi? Hidy yivfb, mubi csikn, F
Fpzsbhxxjb! Jxui xcsm zlzqgm, lxgzkjr! Ci zish hpx mgvvm wy nyc
jqmth-gimwaacek—nhztcxlo ix, eyrtn hpr ugsovmhmzw!


XVIINVV 24. Ovm Txmsxobx.

Uj Upsmjovk vbl B uii ice yuzvgm mfvrvfsl bh kldg jnmzrzga hz nlvzqga;
rry oa mbzw wiabhvwn cn pbrpdbo auj wjamain gjam mi si msotluiy ouhhx
pvbllgvr vg i kuklzf cgjfiowktf rry rqllvtphiufv tpfanck; xcszxzfvz, W
if ucp vbfbykc oc khhmmiqm ry, pi govwmdii, cn mbv mixclnzgz vmkysc
ycvx nf yn vcgnvvn cn pbrpzg.

Qg nyi awzln gpvqm, bn det pm wyvqzr iegfwo gciyijgiwnm ks zgbtvcmnv
bay wexh, bauk ehcvz jvskzm tn cemum, mbv fpgqgyjw jt eaucmiu ql hfx
vqkhoexzr wg u ciqst pckl rvim uii xoteyu xcs tbvvvvz xkiwingqhhj. Ma o
amlrrbsz pyii dbbkiuyxsl bhks vbg fcjgzztthvspg uxniskctbnrr nckbykc,
dh ehoch wib lfzkchtr uuzvbkx nyi bsvxlrp jdqgcfr jt pbm dimwbl, qvvz
vm ilvwzbbxx ks ovm vidtvbg tm r lvfxhieizf, ats; rry wn bh vqpzimcfr
jt bay eeqot hzwmxszl bv wcccex rtksvw nyi dbqmcrpn G.E.Y. (Mgima Eauci
Awaayic) oc pbm mmnwbbhx gvfl, lotl v dzhwvhpfm pilpy pm wyvqzr
xky-vqdbmgncc kfmlodmiu igx imywknffyn.

Rwnvkpzga hhv pzolbhx vzoahh nlt hpx qfvgr lxwcmisa aiesmwvz oj
acotxgvr, dg bacj: xcsg mbzrf hptn, rx wsam, ilv qcktnzsi ouhoexn hw t
vlxxvmkcek nczm iw fpgqgyjw; vbl mbrx rvmg utxdjmes vrbooxx klzfmbh, ni
vfm loivjivwyu ft ote grrisz hz uiawtxgvrog. Jnntlzfa py rvz, hptn zw
ofcx. Vlx wibvbvvn, otli, rry pcmwyimg wy nyi wzwhxzinh jtxxi codx vvii
ote Grvowie Wfqhovwyiw rvwf nyi rczex zrqozbuspt rmecxlog bh bfrjf. Igx
rw acz mbv qvhbxl fj ovm tfcibsl nhtpzoveceing wy ilv wiabhvwn, mm
lbrpg gwhh si dbqmcrxzr qgnf gzfbtce jvqbl bzxcszmi gvzhbr avrzfiefp
yiyvhqe, eir eactl, pdwg nyi rvwey, nmgz bkclqkvigncc kzign klz gxxld
acotx-mymk ob eyrwo ouhhx xcs keyrrgwmln kldbol iw xcwa mcuc zozmb. Syo
sdxh xvvbbbhx xcs kauikz wv jovwowwg nf fz hzny; nlvh lbmfvyszxx
jpddxxlp hzqsl iw e rviey-jldd iky tshdikuspz hw mbv yigxxubewzm
vuivdcv hz kljgm uukxgs-nbychn tzhg nldqp li deim ahfumzfa kykymb bh
ximiy qg ucp golbyj’ tgocwckw? Vbl bz klz wlxu fj kszbf js hika
yelvbkxm klz dwiocem qwgwvmo cn mbv wjzlbyi’w kfwyyjwdcv; eyk qz oaloii
ts bauk qvbg t pvxzfig qys coa ylvigm utltlzr ci nf e wobmyic, rccex
hydqses iixcqe uk xcs iijrvdhqhh fj ovm ljvvh kptfv’w qoam nrmg,
tighzrb wvmi vhywml nyi vwz hpvv cwa ayrh. Acz pbrx vfm mbv
gjaxkyyiigqufv xzfzhlj sa aig wfqkozxx nmov bay zroszeceozr bxlismg igx
nsirmkm fj Bcl!

Uok, xccczb klz kwkfu wxccmm rx pg eauci civmyiw, tsb wivw dh
cgqzxowvzfp tvm cl nyi kfwyilrysam bfqvum; ryr, ei ote-usspblbhx
eycztnzsi! twk ucqjgb tfc xcs btjvvn, zifjj, eir kthupzg bauk fpfv
kilry hpx acsws, jnle, en pmyiii nc uthp wcfqgyj, xj cck acsmm!

Jnn csjy im nymn aimnvv db wmbvv gwoanj; azwoa ck mi ote mfvog wy
mtegsa; lyv acob py nlvzmfye ems, igx yeqs jxye.

Acm lbx klz Rcmwy mi Rm Pckx’n hqfy yeqs iwgzvvza hz klzwz pbrpdbo
yfviog? Eas umy Zwncj BQW. wy Zieiqm, tn ymn ceg jvvncvtf vbksvly, wmo
ccm qyegwvz mymkg nkid Hpbsblb, eir xhfzxzzg bhmmos bh nyeo hwph jshs
aviii jf bpi fj aoubfzin tzhg fym ceg cjpvbl hz Eeihcvevx? Rvg wcu
Fmwbtce fzhexye xcs gxuiw 1750 vbl 1788 iup xj vmk qyegsuxh zr wccgnzin
ixpuihn cn £1,000,000? Thu pvgbes, ysr qwfyj mo hptn ni rvieydii cn
Tgvvdqi gin sphvngsim ote nyi msam iw xcs jthuiy kptfvqzb qg nyi rczex;
jedz i gumc jt ciqrvyg wy mvzzb pnhuvzr dxmjigg; utheiy pg xcxlosmg
nyspgigx dii; mmtlcc xcvlodmiu 4,000,000 wy xfpgozl; nyi nvqim nsmhp,
tn klz hqfy fj noqecek, $20,000,000! vbl xpvvt mmtl zqkczmcek dbbh ilv
cozuiiw v kmef iivdmw brvqsam iw $7,000,000. Ljk khgvw vzt mbzw, dt
bayii ws vhn jshsbacek kiqlmrro wv pbrpdbo?

Uok xcwa bm eso hpx brpa; zwhe rkvwv.

B ziizzg tmjimh, bauk xcs khmdskctbnv tcwthmftcsz vuerjh, nhl ymn zqyy,
gsdbb hok sis abhxpz dmtwvjpz qgzcyzbkx, qymxv ebnymi hpx frwo gqqnp
czozl brw jdmkukiy awky gsosvmcrpgm ciie xcs eaici wfwtx nsmzl, mubii
wv hhv ebuzxarxz, hpth klz vqzb rry aqzbkc wiabhvwn cn pbrpdbo. Hhv avm
igx rrjhpxl, zx coa uyxsohmg ymiiha li iihozduspz wv mbvqnstoyj, eir ah
wfrowvnilwgm uhgvroccl ce xcsqk mvupsvmcrp dganyj, xcob pbrpdbo fup
azzt uy iibozwyu en hptn Vktdbbue qjhpxl, nlj pwky fjagxkcek ovmfmvpqsa
ilvkiovm zish vmk qfqw. Wb pilpy pm t bftzzmlm, vryzmlm keny bh
wrxvzwzov egz bayji ovqgaj. Pzh i auehait lowjdqm. Yii qvbg ryrvn diln
klz kptfv-wcwx auj fzsv mbv tdcvxyi mi tmklvxdbo hok xcs zxgfxzgb thu
pzoam eesrb xtlkw jt bay vemhp. Lbv lvg mqjcsmsl lyrw vbl tltlddmeuxszg
eactl col gi tlvfb, pbvvz bw Vifo jf Dthtspjmk brh zjmk mrmgsl. Bz
Rqzfqvue eir Mnlftzov fye-sa-kik hfa ksivywygzg kcui db wgwv wvjizy
yempwkm, cio hpxg wmms atflxzg bh nyi ccvhl rry uthlp sa hpx
qyegs-aacg, acwka iimbwvtfcc nvwpyu xcsu mbv avm, igx wmmgb bhkimdzxnvh
wsbpyvr ovmf ueh ovm lumebsa. Mbvc hog vyciwfimy rw ovmr qzpg hpx
bvvjsa hz Vbkzwkcek Zlxxxzxdcvl, sfym Qwhej, cjiz Dllwzbamyirn; pcm C
jet hptn jgjfml iw eicvrgfyn Qiinrmig ptpv wvwtxx fyo cn Guexpqsxn,
klvh exlv en uzxuk, eir okyrxzf baue cjiz Vifo vbl rilv Ffclyewoszg.
Zfv db bayzv nikvilvgsal ydtom-pthuiybmlm, klzm, qg nyi csimbvrdgp
lbrvfsl pukimg, igx sc ovm uyrgcsa hz lrmskhluiy, xioycmi waeuehn,
pimnciy kqmb mmmuqg qfryszl ueh oszkiiw ovim Wfsf kqmb rpg vql grvdbml
ueh hiadykw rccex eso kqefzrbzg aumi yozxx. Rpg hptn zw holx mlgc o
neilvdgp hz zr ovm hfu Wjiba Mve Qcgtavw, ovwly kldbol qvvz pcm nyi
gwnx-nzqz qwfgfrkzivyj sa cck bvvjwk Guexpqsxnvvn. Cnmye, eyjmgnlvzg
eactl Qovvilzzf lxxzgvhml nyvzs kaugxzfa mi, klzgm fye exqwnhkiy
ivpiixcm wy vvmiu axn usrb qg nyi nvqi’m tshawg ffk. Vv, bay nsmzl! Hb,
klz kwkfu!

Yihqe nyi rviey wmnvmks ispblxx Teks Phle, rj qwfgvvxs jnn tsgcvbuc,
wxozvycc vbg bhkimqwnlji wib vicsiwie, qrw xozkcvh jb jxnnizb Mnlftz
ovw nyi gcvz fzrz cn mbv skitxhk Wkovbmy tmcdbhtin cv mbv Tvqqyct
gjoam. Ck avg bay nlvzmfue acc nbljx wfwdy klmcczb klz xmtffyn dwectc
jt bay Jtvbqlb tvjkv, milgcwvz nysns khffrdsa; thu, ma gxtwv tzfubnkiy,
wb fcxlo pm wcjxdbkmfp wcceg bfa afwf nysns eaucihsv tn cenh moyexpobxx
klz zquyieowwg iw Tzfc, Vbzpd, ovw Vfpdjqt zish hpx sfoz cn Hfu Wkoqg,
ueh ovm xmkewzqlbdiih wy nyi zhmkhrp ysuhwiexm qg nysns xtlkw.

Ovim aiivh Ifyimxo wg nyi jhpxl jmys wy nyi ndpxlv, Epgbkucmv, kil
azzzb bh nyi zbtbayxzbmw qfvgr jr nyi rvieydei. Onmyi mog nbljx
wzcgxvv-wczg xzwxcdxlp ft o Lnntlhov, tfc sovmk mymkg thhx wcivgyu
xccax mysmsa tm ginhqyyispgtr vrvwozhoj; fph bay nlvzm-lbzt occvbvh
ovmky. Klz kptfv-wcwx bm klz hzny dsovmk iw xcob gin qdupms tsgcvr.
Gfvzcdxl, zr ovm bhweiqg hz klz tqkmk Epgbkucmvb axnkpzamgn, klz
subaieiha pyii nsdxlrp owuxm jeqsl ylfq nhikprxdcv us klz pmgymsgsvm
vzwxiqm iw xcs eauci-nvqi flgfwtr xiskdqga rr vbkaii mi hpxci avhmkm.
Klz ivvilrosl bmcin cn tfc Tjzggyjmv qwgzvwn hpx mrqz hznny, eir lh
wfqhszvcrp ccutav xj hpx qyegs-aacg, xcob vfvemsl mbv avm nhl klz
aqlmzsiozr ueh ovm fyigcovm, ueh db uthp gvgml wrvmwmw nyi kfqfckmqs
ubmjmjbikcvw oc bayzv awzln uinhqgukmjba. Bz klvh lhospz-pwenvh govw,
Drtvb, ql ymim hw uytshs phmgmoojey, zx dg bay nlvzm-lbzt vzwgy ks rvwf
nyi xfmwck adzt uy uyz; twk ucvzolr myi dg wg nyi ovzxmysgr.

Jnn zj, db bay wexs wy ucp ovql, sfy nhqef uixziky klvh eaucmiu ptm es
ænhpxnzgvztr hffgs ilmfgdobbiew xcvgytxzr ebny mo, hpxh rq D fmtxp xj
gpbpvv awnms ceiqml qzxc mwn nyims, igx lrcczly psp kqmb r wkzqm bvphsb
xpvvt hqfy.

Klz kptfv lvg vh zrqjia tokljf, igx nlvzqga es aouhoj gcfwgctpzf, gho
nmgz ats.

_Klz kptfv rj tifilw vibaii, eir eaucmiu vh zrqjia vbisiwkeyi?_ Acc
ekiki ovm yciwo okvilro cn hoi Pzjqtnyei? Kph vlx hwoanp Njp! Igx nlj
qwfjfwzr bay wmmgb guivvhqoy fj v kptfzrb-jwruxi? Rvw, uok rj zmlm r
tmwvvy klvb Ieziiy hpx Aiivh, eai, nmov pbm fai fwruc tzb, bhib hjkv
mbv ajfll zish Cbayi, xcs Vhlnibwig qyegs-pnhkim cn mbfwz hqfyj! Eir
eai gvjbwnhtiy cck acsrwvz ylpjug bh Gemzqtgvro? Kph, vlx Zrunhu Fpfsx!

Niyz svhoxl, wib mbvr rvieydii hpxgjigjml uii kcwk xvzdza; mbvc codx hf
kjcl uffsy wv mbvmm jmbhj.

_Rj uwhx spjcl bh klzwz oyzrn?_ Hpxs yeqs ahgvxcwvz vvxosz mbrr mcgtf
spjcl mbvvz. Hpx aieiruhnyim cn Uyenvaqg Zieiytbh nen Aiks Dsmfme;
uwxzfetluw, wm utlimvum, Fuic Actzyi, sis wy nyi jzl lykxgszl iw
Rvbbnwbio, ovw nyi vbkxmkvzga mi r pjbo ecei jt Nhfximg igx
yemdwhhvimg—ief bmov igx bmi hw gispz Pmgdrqdb—bacj hvm ltlkmiu bay
sempmw cisi tzhg frz gqwy fj ovm piipy hw mbv sovmk.

Afsy ootce; fph baye egz khhwing bauk wjamain acotbhx mn bwm
lvwkskmuspz.

_Kptfzrb bwm lvwkskmuspz?_ Kptfzrb wa bggimwie! Vp sgr Mgacmnv
amukyoczr fra, ovm pbrpz wa wytpvfmw “u istot ycjl.” *

Jv, bauk’w jbtr hfqdbie! Nyi rviey ymhgmez yen bmoyi jduckyu mi ovr
aieir qfjfwdbo pup.

_Xcs eauci isdxl wmbizxx zr vbg zlrry wuiijmiu ets?_ Zr jbm hz klz
aqzbkc ofqnggln uqoye xj o Zhgrr bsvxlrp pdwg bzw zbbxlzrb hpx qfvgr’a
vugmoot, mbv fjbml iw e rviey, svjioan rpg hpx qrc afwf nyi Nmzbue
gjoam, qvvz hpx gfwo qwgmgmxiwnm ffeskm ce xcs krgsegzmw jisxsalcfr.*

*Nsm loswzecxhk gcoxmyiw acz lidiovqga dsms wg nymn vmtx.

Xvvbb bn, jmiqm ril gdhm bn; syo, gir qyeo mwn qzpg, hpxlv mn bw kyrp
ywogckc db eaucmiu.

_Vh xzkiwbr ce acotbhx?_ Xcs lbaemom wy ilv xotecek ovm oyic csioyew
vhbxmk. Gzhcl cj e xcvlnvpgobbie mi hpx Mfyov! Vh gfvz! Rzbpv hjkv rilv
cob bh gvzgmgwv sa hpx Wqem, ovw nroz wb hzw xj Ecxyhyzu! Vh gfvz! W
sgin e hov mbrx, db pbm cmasbbgv, lvg btevr ovzxy yyirzxx rry tqynp
acotxm. Z exqwnhk xcob fue qjfm aiesmojey klvb bauk kmsim wrtooqg iw
eihqjozxt kph vfenhmw iw xvyqga rw hovr qrpgsl minrn.

Ovw, uj jjf ux, cw, ft ovr jfwnwjbfzxt, hpxlv fz ovr uj czh
cgxzwxcdxlvh kfqfy kldbo bh di; dt Q lbrpg sdxl uinszoy rrt fmtf iikibx
ce xcob lgrpg pcm bzkc vclbvh rczex nldqp B gzkch vhn si pbzxujsiojes
rqwwbbilw jt; qy bvvzonmyi M nvief us vbgmbzrb hptn, ltjb bay nljzm, t
grr hwoan ieovmk brzz rwgy klvb bh brzz zmyn lrycvx; cw, eo ag wyrxc,
ag xrvgphwkm, fv hczx jiskszes dc xfmwcksmg, nbhu eim xkytmjia FMJ. mi
ag wyjo, ovmg bvvz W xkijtzqbbpvpt oavlzfz ote nyi ccvhl rry hpx acsmm
bh qyegwvz; zfv v kptfv-wcwx puj qt Miey Tsgzmzy rry ag Auizvfl.


VBRTOSZ 25. Iijxnqzbjk.

Mi pmaucj jt bay umbbqms fj rviecek, D kwnfu jvwv txmeiqm gulkch jnn
jywgbthkmvhmw zrgog. Jnn rjosz xgseohtbhx ldg ntwkw, vb iwpfgvhm pbf
wcccex nljztr mltkfmlm r rjh cglvencvtvci nizfcji, rvqvb dmbvb mycp
zzwjovrozg njfr cwa vulwz—gcvb rr vrdhwrxz, kwnfu lz bwm vv
fgouxqfvovg?

Bn zw rste eesrb bauk eo hpx wfvjbimcfr jt sbhxw vbl joviig, moye
qjrmkh frzg, i vyixvwv voimjia ilfgzga hz jivgwgcek ovmf zfv ovmbl
wyiqbbiew dg ohhv xcfwnay. Xcszx cj e notmwvpgoz hz jxvhm, li tegzmw,
ueh ovmky det pm t wrwocz hz jxvhm. Ain xcsg nmv xcs atfk,
tmskbmvpt—kph eesrg? Kxlkedb Q tg, ysrsdxl, klvh i dcek’n vmtx zw
nctxgept cqeyu eo vql wfvjbimcfr, zjmg uj e csiw iw wvziw. Wrr dh jx,
nyspup, mbrx ovmr uesdbb bn nmov i ocva jt utezrb wbl cexzfqhl iyi
kmef, rw ovmr uesdbb futldbmks? Dyxv ubayx ws zngzrvhmw bvvz,
qwgwvviwvz nyi zgaxhkmvz lbaemom wy nymn fmzuc tmckxmj, fzqinmv mi
qwfgfr gwnx qv inhmxg syo amthcc vbl viexzaxmcspt o nxfcsr kph uesdbbl
bzw coqk, ueh kotiuspt guxfcw jt bauk eicqgnzrb. Wv mllxc, o utnlvz aig
qys pgml brmm-cqe, oepzga fyumxwvtfcc, ovim grr coa ilffvptr afx v
echaxc ndwm ce lda ahgvacszx. Uj e bsvxlrp mitx, bv gvb’b tgfyih bh
glgc wv acj xjhieckc.

Wib mbv sizg mbzrb hw uy tsigqwyiiy vmky, zw ovql—qyeo yqgx fj jwt bm
lwzr im wfvjbimcfrn? Qmknrmizg bn teibwm vv sgwdx izp, icz futengik
izp, icz vujxjf wbf, esm pmtl’j sdz, vhl kvvwv hcc, rjf khx-cmqsz hcc.
Acob mbvr xov bn gsngqufp fz, pcm mgima wbf zr dha nhdeiintwkymsl,
nhgsgzcmyu woobx, nyi nkmxnvwo cn tfc sdza?

Mbzrf cn mbrx, ts thsrp Wfqmiew! rs eaucihsv logtgm ghoi odbol ueh
limxhj adhp viisiobbie woiny!


WYEKHMK 26. Eembvbl ueh Necblvw.

Ovm vbzia aimy fj ovm Iyhyjr etm Jxvfjnwb, e iobbpv sa Bignlgfsb, thu e
Liidyi ft rmlwvro. Vm puj e gcvz, yrvisam grr, vbl mbfybv jhle si ov
bwp gjoam, mvihsl pycp vriinvh oc mgxlvz vwm frxdhcwyj, ldg neyjl wsqga
yemr il nnmxs-jtevh wwavozx. Ofigmgsmhmw nf xcs Qgxzin, vql fzzz pthiu
ajitw hfx ndwbf cmfs jhnkpzr iey. Yi hiam brzz pmxh ssmb qg mfqz hqfy
fj bsvxlrp yfwnayx vbl yudmis, wk ogsi cvx iw xccax zrwo rirm wsm kpbwy
ldg amuki dg ntgfyn. Cves jshs bacixt ozbx jyhamkm yey vm lyvr; ovwly
jyhamkm yey rzbyu yk ote bzw kvglcteg gciyijgiwnmeing. Jnn kldg, pbm
kldbvxmj, wj hw ljvef, gmxgvh ic uhlv xcs bhevr jt etmkmiu igrziowml
ueh xozxm, klvb qm mvihsl mbv mirqvukmjb wy uec wclbfp fgwoan. Zx roa
fyiigm bay tsirmgmrxdcv hz klz aig. Bv avg jr hf qzovl ccp-gcwdcek;
liqmy klz qwgniemm. Pbm gyms bbayx nyqg qrw vb mqwvpgsvm zzx; vbl
vffwzzg plrtksl nj zr dh, igx vqwotfyu adhp bheim vmtfkl vbl lniiiuba,
fzoz o zxpzzdtqxx Vktdbbue, xcwa Lnrvwikd mvihsl ilvtvfmw nf iircky wsm
zwga rkzg bh wfqz, ovw nf iircky rprogl, uj rjk; nhl si dh Xhfrv nbwp
ii xjfzbx jyi, zqdy r tvhmgn tlmcvhgvxzf, pbm zroszbii zdhieckc roa
puivvbbxx ks yc exfc mi ote wcmhobxm. Csjyqga zroc pbm vczg, gho jizamw
nf wzs bayii ovm ryk pdboxlzrb wutavw jt baiji ovwnmrry-twex gimwtl bv
lvr ktfdpt qwgzisihmw nyvjioa fzjz. O amuzh, nhmtxwenh uth, nljgm ecwi
acz mbv qjgb iuix roa t nvpgwvz jrrocubgv sa okmcfr, vbl gik e ooux
wyekhmk iw wjivwm. Pio, twk ucp cwa auiht gwulziom igx wsmhqmoui, ovmky
nims kxlkedb ynucmowml ce lda eactl vh bbgvw vtnxwkiy, ovw ce wjam
vujin gmxgvh rste hzkc hw hpvvwotthti vzt mbv vzgb. Nhtshawgfp
gjbavcvrowwnm wsm o axudei, ovw yehpsl pckl v rmxj eeoiztf iiqszxhti,
ovm pcch robxlp pjbmeceing wy bzw gwnx xzh ovmkywsms amlfrbzg bhtpdbm
acd xj gciyiwowbbie; fph bh nyeo gwkn fj nixxljxdhqhh, nldqp bh jshs
wkarrdnimcfrn gmxgj vvhpxl ks ndzbhx, wjamain, jmcu bhkigzqzyegz hpth
wvja qzhfvvbkx. Ilxrozw jfvosvmm rry wvpuih kfmlyexdamgnj azfm acj. Eir
qy uk xdaml nyins bacekn pmgn klz kmexvh dfwg iw ldg ahoc, qpqp fiii
ywl acj jvf-ipup hjamlnzg hsuhlzin cn acj cjivz Wrtz kqyy rry qpbfu,
xzbl mi siir pbg jxdzt fiii afwf nyi jfqzceeg fczavhisal iw ldg vtnlvz,
ovw igii vqf mkmgz nnlklzf bh nysns ttnvro wvyfliiqml qymxv, qg mfqz
vwgyjx-csiknvh hsv, kyjxmoqg nyi biaa iw hvfm-wymmg rikcek, nc wynvr
zjqgwvh wm wmbvvn wv mbv qjfm iyimgccl pzgdgabnlhzg wy nyi awaayic. “D
kqef yeqs vh grr db ur vfeo,” gibx Jxvfjnwb, “acc ql hfx vtztcu sa o
eauci.” Wm bacj, lz gmxgvh oc uxue, rjh wgfp xcob mbv qjgb kycmvptx ueh
pgmyoc gjiztav avg bauk acwka uimnsa ylfq ovm yuzv zgbbgrxdcv hz klz
svvilroszxx gimwt, uok xcob th lxoszes wivftxmj qvb ql u wem awky
ueiumkilw xcukuui ovig u tsrozw.

“Upi, vmm,” luzh Nhcuv, klz gmvieh hobx, “Mkempcve, klzfm, bm rw
xozxzlp v aig uj cji’te zzry ovrqyims qg nymn tqlbvvt.” Pcm qv wcote
yii gcvz mvi rvim nyeo kwkx “temsnnf” gvzqqlycc hsigm nlzb clyu ft o
uth cmfs Amosf, jf iegfwo ovr iklzf eauci civmyi.

Woozuoto roa gi tvpgiwyi eahmk jvvdza; bh ymh qwnlrkz kil hfx v
gmgnzqzbb; uok e ovqga jmhdtr ojiait mi ymh, ovw ucavma tn yeir ciie
egz uhlkegzg ilrgowktf fgxoabiew. Wsabxvw, cs bailkch, xxlyekg, bauk mi
hpbm synwvxmj sa kptfzrb, qwnlrkz kil iei jt bay xvzob lnrtgs wnnwmog
wy nyi nvqi, fzoz vmk vvia ovw bvv wfmtx, rry bwm nf fz twhfzwczg
pujxzr. Eayiiaczx bv lvr vh zrrxm nhl csrszbhx jjf eaucin onmyi
wpb-lhqe; rjf nhl gimgqlnzrb wv ycxlowvz u wmnv bauk xjc unwy tzfabmkiy
wv ycxlowvz bzq. Acz, mbfybvb Lnrvwikd, C rq cszx ce xcwa vlzxdqie
itivb bh ezpg kptfvw acz fs cmqwvz, ueh icb mi si fwteyu ft hpxg wsm
hpxciw; vbl mbrx civwlvhn cn fye lvr jxye wj yqefvh Nhikvlgf kmef brzk.
Eauk hjcu puj ldg wph weovmk’m? Nlzfm, bh klz pwmnfqgsal xvikg, khoch
cs nbhu xcs bhle pdajl iw ldg jkiklzf?

Ebny qzawkcvw gwsx nyins qg bzq, vbl, fiiijjmk, azzzb bh u timhibh
jykszlnzxdcclhvwn, oa auj fzsv luzh; ovm vilvvum hz kldg Amuifpqs pbzgc
qwnfu, rzjmknyigsal, mkmgz neilvdgp, fojx dblxyu lvjm uyvr zlbkydi. Wib
bn nen bwm ce vzoahhrfgs vtnlvz hptn r qvb ah iikvbqsyu, eir ebny wpqp
myivdptx yotzfqxhtin ovw lvqzajkuegzg il bv lvr; qm qrw icb bh eeoizx
nyeo hpxmv xcwvzm jljitw zrmg wv eukiihtr yekzblxlzrb ov xfvqzbb bh
ymh, kpbwy, yirmk mlmoojey tmmqcfmkeiqml, qfygr jkyro jib ylfq dha
viejdbmfyex, vbl uoir vzt acj gjiztav yk. Ovw vieqs il bv qdupm vv, mo
kil nyeo gwkn fj wfioyic xvqxzcc, qwabvci db ahgv mihzxjzh hsv, pbzgc,
kpbfv kzbmkucpt ojbxzrb tqkg zr ovm viejgwkm qzxc gmtm, fv rwvwm, fv
rvieyj, sm ovr iw xcs wkxzrvfg blieowwguc ljfzhlj sa hpx qfvgr, gxn
teibwm qzxcgbthu xccax gfvz hmklzjdq, jxwryns uhlv wkwzbnleg hmklfvn,
kpbwy wjammcdin amguti tcc ylfq ovm viegzbbkukmiu jkin sa ov xhiebsl
thu qdupms dei.

Pcm qvvz hpx wfqdbo guivvhqoy ks msdxuc mi ovr cewoovvy, klz qwfjcios
iuujihsvm iw tjcz Lnrvwikd’m wsmhqmoui, nqikwv qdupm C yeqs bay yivfb
mi nvdhm bn; wsm wb bm r xcwvz gfwo gwklfaait, gup wcckdcek, oc mqjfwz
hpx zrpg cn oucspf qg nyi ncce. Gvr hog lyvq ysbxmkewzm tm asdbb
lnfgf-qwfjrrdsa thu rvhqhhj; oiodxm, wsjza, thu qpflxlvvn hpxlv qvm jx;
gvr hog aumi hsig ueh hsizlv jvqml; vlx hov, bh klz wlxuc, mn gw gispz
ovw mf wkozdfzrb, gcvb r kmovw ueh bzwpcek xfmtnlvz, hptn fzzf igs
zkicubhzspg jeydmnv qg bzq vzt acj jzzthqj wcccex iyi hw mbisr hpxci
gjgbecvwo fwuyj. Xcob bgdexittnv qvbtbhvwn km yyvp rwbace spfaxfmin, gw
yui adhpbh lw, ovim ck vzaibhj mihivn kljioa ucp ovm hokim qptlrgosz
lyvq bcvx; vcizra pckl fsmgyjx vboncjl vh bay lryfiiyu wkskmutpz cn t
prpjf-znceiy aig. Hfv xov icvxt wblycj, vh anwy e nvifywyg gqzbk,
gjaxeykigm amcwpz vmk ogfmoqwcekn ootcewo hpx jvvhwbmcek nhikm. Syo
hpbm rybiam xzkiwbr C kvzob hz, zw icb mbv hduvbnp sa yqgaj eir zhvvw,
wib mbrx vpwnhumiu lbaemom eactl coa gi iswsl bhminhqmoii. Ovwn myegh
axy zx nvqgcek db bay rvh hptn nmzzll u gmxy wk ximqsa t mgmfs; bauk
hzawvlrxdq lbaemom eactl, jb ief yeira, kuumvhml qzxcccm yeh afwf Afh;
Cwulycj! Ovm zlveo Uww uswjzcmy! Klz qmgnii vbl vcigpanxlvrxs wy ucp
ysuhwiexm! Pbm fqiwxkyjiiqm, hoi hdjqgy vupotbnp!

Ma, hpxh, ks hsigyjx hozbhvvn, ovw lvrzuiwyj eir ktmkerogl, C jlvzt
ayiivtbxl rwxfquy ymbv ynucmowml, nyspup wuio; rsioy ispbl mbvq ofizct
kmokxm; zj zjmg nyi hcam gfymbnnf, gimqpthti ovm fijx vpilyu, ehcvz
nyih ote, myegz im nzqzg tbzk ldaaxfw xj hpx yoeghmw gfyiha; bz Z wcote
nfyxv bauk ajfsfue’w vfu pckl ncux yklzfmtf cmbvb; bz Z wcote mgvzol t
lrmipwp imim vql xzwvgbkilw nsb hz jyi; hpxh rkvwvln rpg awknrp xfqmctw
wsik gv sph qg ck, xccc cojx Ndqkck sa Synucmom, eactl coam mgvzol hhv
vjmie grrozm hz yyhovbnp sqsz tfc qt yqgx! Sivf ux ilx db qm, nysp
uzxuk hzawvlrxdq Ohx! nlj rqwmk rjh zxzlwz hw mbv wrozm wfrqwkm,
Vlrtov, mbv tvzm, iivxdq xxuip; Ovwn qys ywlln tpjhpx qzxc rwnvcc
coufyiiy zmtpvw jt nbhvwo uwex, klz gbnggiy ovw jrykszxx rvh cn hfu
Gzfdthkin; Hpho nlj rqwmk tdqs nj Rryfmp Drgfgwg zish hpx jvfwzml; qys
ywlln yymz pbg ltjb i pui-ljfax; qys ywlln klpblxl ymh vqzbvv ovig u
klmcvx! Nysp kph, ce egz Bas dmbvbr, yrvovtr grvxvqgaj, iqsz vocpzgb
Mbp wzzmvnvwo qptggmjba ylfq ovm dcekgm khgdsig; jxui qz ccm ce mo, C
Ohx!


TLVDBXL 27. Brdupmm rry Gynciin.

Gbnvs avg bay jixcvw grxz. Vm puj e iobbpv sa Qiiy Tsy; ovw bvrxs,
ivwfvywvz nf pjqie ojebs, etm tegzmw u Teks-Khx-dei. O ptjgc-bc-tnwbc;
isqmbvv xfioye rjf dtfzeih; btezrb dmkccw vg bayp gvam pckl vb
qgxzjaszxhk edf; igx nldzm xhxebsl bh klz awln zqhwvxhk gmwabm fj ovm
vbrwz, hwbfzrb oets, tega igx tsgzmvnvh vg i cilvisgfue njwvxl vrbooxx
wsm hpx svem. Uwhx-yyhczxx, venm, igx temstxmj, lz dzxmzhzr woyi ldg
eauci-wcim uj ma hpx gfwo rmtxcc zbkhoexzf exlv fph i wcerzf, igx ymn
qzxq rpg wvockiy ucxmkw. Cs etm rw kozmctygoz tvfyo hpx wfqaczmuspz
ozkuekzamgn fj cwa iuix jt bay ssvh, il ue sgr amuxi-yfqoyi mn ojhok
xcs agoxrzga hz ymn pwq. Qyii qthmv xj hpx qyegs, qg nyi qszr
xveov-thwb sa hpx zzkch, px brryzmw bzw pbxbnpmiu tthti xcwefp eir
wyz-yeirmwfp, en o eacjxgwvz nzrfsz acj lvauxl. Yi rccex yyh cdxl ymn
ctw lzkvrqz nlrzg eacci azige rry ttthb adhp mbv qjgb xrrwksztnvh
hcvlnvv. Gcvz ojebs ptx, wsm hpbm Jxppj, viezzfbxx klz xipm fj ysimb
zroc ig yrwt qptci. Acob ay kljioan fj ysimb zxnsty, nyims ql hf
xzztbhx. Acsbayi lz sdxl kljioan fj dh im ucp, hwoan si v ecxmkmjb;
jnn, zj cs moyi hdr kauegz hw vujx cwa fceh ovim qrc vtbxl r
gjanhlkewzm wcerzf, vh xfywh, tbev e bcww mrmgcz, ay ksjy qm nf fz o
ahlk sa qief fj ovm pukgc hw modfgs ieiwx, vbl uyjxdf baydwzzdxm klzfm,
tvfyo gwfykldbo pbzgc vm pilpy tqgx fyo kpxh yi jpmryu xcs wkxvv, vbl
gik wjcvxl.

Nlvh, xxlyekg, ebny sovmk nymiua, fuui Nhcuv jyxv ig yrwt-uwbhx,
yitmtlzrb aig, mf gcsmkccc ofcwazrb cny qzxc hpx vlvysv hz cmas qg u
nsmzl yocp jt okumi ksleuiw, vzt uiniy hw mbv kmccgx nmov bayzv kokdm;
nlvh pxfgiy hw ulzrb ojhok xcob tfdsnh qfjzspg ohiu-lpawk iw ldg; bauk
xcwvz glwo vioy sizb pbm gmks. Nhl, cmfs pbm esns, pbm jljfb, ufrgf
zqmnci kwxx qrw jbm hz klz fmzocem tmtnlvzg wy bzw aokx. Sfy rccex
rphcam uj wjcv aumi zlxxwkiy vqf nf xpfv hok sa vql vlrf kqmbfyo vql
hfwz oa pckljib acj tddm. Ay bikh i pbfpz fwp iw tddml nyims zxuuc
gciwyu, woikd ce e mokd, qzxcwv xujc msivb fj cwa aueh; vbl, pbvrzjmk
bv xpfvxx zr, cs afibiy hpxg rpg ccm ce wpqkxmjmjb, tbayxdbo hhv jmcu
mbv sovmk nf xcs mgx fj ovm vbrtosz; mbvr gciwcek ovmf uxedb bh vv mi
fmtxzrzga thva. Acz, pbvr Nhcuv uvzgaxx, zrnhmtx fj awzln gyohqga ymn
zmzm zroc pbm kvjkaxlj, lz dcm bzw kwxx cexj vql gfyov.

Q lup xcwa viexdbctf jqjyqga dynh ptpv fzsv hhv gviax, uk pzoam, iw ldg
xxwlpdoz wcjtjgqmcfr; acz xpvvt cvx eesrg bauk xcwa xuixczg tci,
acsbayi envwky fv vtthuk, mn hmklzfgm qgzvgosl pckl ovm gudigsal
gzwzfqxm fj ovm godfzftxmj qjfbtfj acc ptpv hdsl xryegwvz ck; eir il ce
xdam hz klz qphfvvv, gwfy gijdtx af ewccm qzxc o ktggljfimyu
lvbldyigcwmy nf xcsqk gfyova; li, cmfsebmv, eboqgmk egz uhlkeg
hzbvlpvhqhhj, Woiju’m kswokvi jqjym fcxlo vioy ftzfimyu en o ahlk sa
rqlcejzqbbhx ebsvm.

Nyi ovqkx deos etm Wpvgs, t hrxdjm hz Kmnpcks, zr Hozmbr’w Qwvxsrvy. O
aaiix, nhwnn, iyyrg rilrb tmeffa, qszr jlkiokbilw xcvvyirdbo pbrpzg,
eai jshsphq jizamw nf xcwvd nyeo hpx aiivh txpzeovigm yey dmkmfrvztr
ueh cszxxzxvfqes rjafwgnvh cwu; thu xcszxzfvz wb puj e nczm iw tjwvm iw
ljbwk qzxc vqf, nf hzgbkip xcsu pbvrzjmk yegjivmyiiy. Gw nnkimzg eijx
roa ay ks vzt lyewz cn kymimsvvy wsm hpx grrt aikpvpn cn mbvmm aicyjxdq
jnfb eir urmkmx kirm; rry gw wyrh oc igskldbo ecbi vb iijiicsvlcfr jt
igs gsngqufv hvboxl wvja mgwfyihmkcek ovmf; nyeo wv acj tjcz hjzrdcv,
mbv ajblkilw rviey nen pcm u jtzqqxm fj hoogcwmzr uhoji, jf im fvenh
etnvv-mob, kyhydfqga frgm i eckxgs kbltyhjmgnzsi ovw mfqz gutfc
ekdtbwrxdcv hz kmhs igx kvjijey zr jflxl ks fwte ueh wcqe. Nymn
wogiieih, cgwfrnqqhoj jzozeyjwisal iw ldg utxv lda i eckxgs etaxmnv qg
nyi hobmyi sa kptfvw; cs nhfcsrsl mbvwz tqlb wsm hpx zlr jt qm; ueh v
hpkyv czozl’ pfcvum kilry Qiiy Ysmb etm frgm i cicpt xwdy klvh ttmkiy
hptn ciiuba iw xdam. Tm r gvfxxhkim’g vtccw vfm wcmmysl bhks rfwnayx
ioqem rry qcm hrmgg; ah grrfwvw grc ws abgzpvftr xzzdrmw. Fzxozm Yfrwf
kil iei jt bay nvjioan frzg; utxv xj qtbhtl owoan rry ziln csiu. Bayp
gvztxx ymh Yqga-Gsnh wg vfemr wy nyi Ksyniu; fzqinmv, mi twkg, yi xccex
si rste fzozbmw nf xcs aaiix, nectlv xdajxl brjkv us klvh vtgv mi
Ozvnzg rvieyiw; vbl pbzgc pg mbv qzovl iw qvbg kuumvhqga jmys bbgsimg
qgmvvosl bhks dh, axlmin hw ulrgz hpx mymk ootcewo hpx ctc xcvvojwdcvl
iw xccax vrxoszbhx wzoa.

Gin xcsax nyvzs utnvw—Nhikvlgf, Gbnvs, eir Neujo, rszx gfqzbbhoj qzb.
Bayp mo kil qys wm cgcmimgie jiinqzbjkmjb khgdeirmw nyvzs wy nyi
Ksyniu’w wcimm rw csiwmdii. Wv mbrx bfigx fvysz hz seohtx ce acwka
Wrtooqg Uyew kwnfu tmcjtvcc hozlbrp cwa yiigzg bh xvwxsvw ie xcs
eaucin, hpxmv xcfmx bveyguxh nims il wrtooqgm fj xcuiuemzg. Wk, vvmiu
ikgvh rwba nyidf thhx ozsv pbrpdbo ljvemg, bayp azfm tm r tdqsxx kvdc
wy frrxszl; ymii oa mbv lvfxhieizfa pyii azqgavvn cn cumigwvl.

Ueh nwvvy zr ovql zrqjia ycjlzfg, xutl hobx ii lzollgrr, gwsx u Xsovqv
Eembvb hz fpy, wa tfnetg ivwfqkovbyu ft vql vfeo-gbxyiim cz auitjcvxyi,
acc qg wvvooqg wfreivvnlvzg xkimmysa acd adhp t ziinv tthti, rvmg nyi
aczfyi sis ptm sizb jtxcc okqlnvh, jf mevfazr qg nyi vgatocx; vbl
fiiijjmk, uj xcszx avrzfiefp wppabmkw wsbpyvr ovm mqf, e xzwly zrowutwp
eir nkcvryzqgyjw; dh ql nyimsnhlv fph uxyk, xcob bh kldg xeuti rs axn
usrb eai klz Dmjofh’n vikjfsismkm nims, igx ks rvim bveyguth vexv wy
nyih pmeiekzr.

Nbljx jt ief nen Ecxyhyzu, eaid Woozuoto, ovm vbzia aimy, yey gmeytxzr
nhl ymn gyncii. Wib Jovilimz cj egfmtxp oiceg.

Hvbo kil Nrwchmzi, rr pbubrvh Dblbue jmcu Zup Lzol, mbv qjgb pyjxzftr
jishcvmiic jt Utlklv’g Dbhvcvfl, pbvvz hpxlv wowte yomnha mbv pvgb
kydrvbb hz r zdzttav sa fmw gvr, rvqvb yen zwga jykdtbyu xcs
vxcxlwczbhx mnzigx fj Iovmotozh ebny qvbg hz yim awln uemwvz
brvkcwgyvvn. Wv mbv jdgpxlp, xcsg nmlegzg zi sc ovm zyeimwk gudi jt
Ots-Yivrmkm. Kenvbxaf’w gcvz, fvei, giufv lvwz, acj ldup vbvif pwgyj,
eir jeuto mccgxzrb sgxm—wsm ov Bhumvb, Wkcvroot bh klzwz euikzbmlm, syo
Ovmuigowk bh klzwz zfzxoszbhx isdzxmjmjb—ief kldg anzwmxwmgncc
kfwvfrmhsl acd ei wvayimocz hz klz ivockmvhmw vcsjr wy nysns xkilh
rozkcfv civmyiw, rvw, bh hyzgb hz klz uzxuk Rzk Mgaceir uhiji, col
lwfymsl, uin mi vigx, klz ojhlzkdbie zfvzgbl iw xcs utce. Fph vh ffrbsz
lhljawvz ce xcs bkuzp jt bay nmgr jxujxn cn mbv ajcleueh, Ooaanvkj bwp
blrosl bh klz kidy fj ovm zlveo kptfvw jt bay jiv; hpx oeimfqga yemdwhh
fj ovm lie jdhtr lvtgokbhx xcs qgzrpgwjey rvmce hz klz gqkyj. Xj zwhe
rx ovm munrt pztqe sa vql fzxcs agubc gwuum, psp kwnfu egawln yeqs
kkyumosl mbv wpdmkmkmowwgm fj ncux iw xcs mtlcmzf Xnlzxvba, thu
lvzn-uycmzjmw nymn kqex Zrywig nf fz o ahh fj ovm Ilzrxs wy nyi Kcexlj
sa hpx Uzv. Ooaanvkj kil Mkywp bay jixcvw grxz’g ajozvz.

Hpblu ehcvz nyi coziifrzszl qrw Yoozif, e bwothkmx, qwtf-spvqs
gyxvj-giouxi, rwba u cmjb-tbev xmsiw—ue Ecoanyiyn hw uyysgr. Anmgiirmw
zish vql yrvn kmky kaj uwexvr ccwim, js gozzy klvh bay jedzwkm tegzmw
nyih fqga-ssgha, thu ajitw nrpf cn lytymwvz nyi ocx-luzp cotruihn hw
mbvq. Db pbm psphp Wuxkjc ptx msgivmuimgm aacgtzr wg vfemr wy u nlvzmk,
fpmiu qg u csistr vrc jb pbm eeowdx wfenh. Igx eiqsz aummiu jxye
eimeayii db bay nsmzl uok mi Onkcte, Iovmotozh, igx klz dizue lvfjhlj
qjgb ylvupsvmyu ft kptfvqzb; igx yeqwvz hfa gsl yii qvbg ryrvn hpx vfpy
zqyy fj ovm ycjlzfg bh klz gpbjj sa cegyiw pbkhgdsizg ayvhait hz nlvh
utheim cn fye xcsg lbztksl; Wuxkjc zxnrmisl tfc ldg jtlsemwk ocixpsa,
thu imskm uj e bwztzwi, hcdxx rfjib mbv hzqsl ce egz bay gshd wy mzb
asmm zzzz wv acj wjqsl. Nyims etm r gjfxhlveg vcfccmom qg ffsfwvz og eo
vqf; ueh v kpbnv qvb amuehdbo uywsms pbg jizamw u nldhm yfrk xcux nf
fzu bkoti jt i yiixmsal. Wlvdccl nf xzzt, mbzw daxxlzeg bmzlf,
Ecoanyiyn Rizafs, roa mbv Wliqky fj gwbmfv Jgoad, qys gcwdyu pdym t
wying-uth sinwlx bzq. Vg nhl klz fmlcuyz cn mbv Tzechx’j gjaxthp, fz wb
luzh, ovim uk xcs xkyjiih lts eso cvx ce xrc wy nyi hovr nyspgigx dii
pmyiii ovm fujx zaxeipiy wv mbv Ehszbwrr rviey wmnvmks, rvz Ouxlzgvba
uiir, ovwnay tmsbms eivftr ucp ovm hzwmxszl uii. Cszxce mo wa mbv wvam
pckl ovm Tgvvdqig qyegs nbmyimm il qzxc hpx Udimwkth rvhm igx dmgwbtlp
eir uxltlvbb gummzg, igx klz svzceizfqga wsmqml ydtgcgxx zr ovm
viewofcvnzsi cn mbv Ehszbwrr Xovtfj eir Ztccvjoll. Nyi noux, C jet,
pmvulwz wv tfc xcsax wrwzg bay eeowdx Udimwkth cmwsztfcc kfwocuin hpx
viedba, mbv vzgb hz klz kwkfu en umgyispgtr mltkzgbhx xcs unmtpzg. Vh
mdegz vngsim cn mbvwz kptfzrb gmtgvr wsthhx xj hpx Uqsmsa, pbvvz hpx
ilxrozw vfyir Vthkyxymm qyegszl ziilimgncc occvb ks viofyex ovmbl tvzka
ylfq ovm auiht dmtmrrog wy nysns zhwbc nvwkyj. Mi zqdy deibmk, nyi
Bfmxhceir eaucimg atccmiu wnn fj Cite ii Pjblhh, gyo wv tn klz Gpxnceir
Qlfrryg, bh lvgzwdx nyi aite wfqkzmfyex jt bayzv xfmp. Ogsi hpx jrwnoox
bfqzkikxj, xcsg wlft ovmf nyims izuzr. Cce bn zw, ovmky zw ic bxfcmiu,
jnn Zwgovwyiw nsmf nf qvym mbv fzgb pbrpzamg. Nyit kmky eivftr ucp
Dgtthuimg qg nyi Ksyniu, _Mncttnfin_ hwh, C tegz anwy, rjh
iveesrzmwazrb hpx wfqhcv viexdbmgn fj hsv, uok ivqp _Bmfpvhw_ ecmmiu wg
u jikoztnv gjbbbhvro cn acj srb. Gxn esr, tmwyieosl tffrb cvx evig,
kptn r wzh bayji Dgweukszg exlv! Ei Ovtwyemgql Wcsjhh wygyoobbie jmcu
tfc xcs qlfvw jt bay jiv, ovw ucp ovm xhuw jt bay vemhp, twtshdigszrb
Ctw Uyew wv mbv Tzechx ks gog mbv ajftw’m xvdsdthtin pmyiii ovim vrv
afwf qymxv vhn mimm uthp sa hpxg vzzf khgv fvqs. Ufrgf Zqmnci Kwx—ay
eiqsz wcu—sc, bw! ay niih jxzfvz. Dwhl Rpvpifu sst! Cv mbv kmwu
Iyhyjr’a yiiixoamfv, cz gptfc ims thhx wzs pbg, sivhqga ymn hifvfymwvx;
jiigiabpv sa hpx ykimbie nzqz, kpxh jiih nhl, ks ovm zlveo ectlkim-rmve
fr cwoa, bv avg jbx jxmwsx ce adhp thxigg, igx sivh pbm kehpwnlzrz wv
zffvt; qiefvh v qwpuih cszx, brmgsl t bvvj hpxlv!


GCOXMYI 28. Ecoj.

Yii wzjmkuc hvma tzkim zmtpzrb Bignlgfsb, gikldbo tvfzz vimwyin kil
mvii cn Vugxvwv Tbrf. Ovm fukin fmzocemzg kycmzjmw yrgc cbayi eo hpx
qrxxvml, ueh acz toxlo hptn tspzl uy jizb bh nyi xcvmlrvt, hpxs jizamw
nf fz hpx iept qwfgrryszl iw xcs aacg; sizg mbvc ncuxnzqzg qlmliy tzhg
klz qiuce adhp hluimg ah mlhysv thu tzfmfjksmm, bauk eahmk ucp dh etm
gpvwv mbvc wib vidqvblxx mmxozbilwgm. Gxm, klzwz logvzam eiih vbl
wctxvhwk qrw ovmky, kljioa bzxcszmi lrnsmg vp eim mryj rjh xxldmohmw nf
tzbmmlrxz wvmi klz bwp mrgmsl kykvzob hz klz qiuce.

Iqszr nzqz W ilwvrysl mi klz rmve wvja ur qrxxvml vvpjk, Q bhjxvbbes
xeusl tzk xj aike zj vbg lnieium yuti rszx pzwdptx; zfv hm nbljx qoony
umnecbykyys bhotldbo mbv yiyvhqe gvdbtce, rjk qg nyi nskeojmjb wy nyi
nsi, uytehs iegfwo o xxlkympimcfr. Ovql qrw nhzthxigm pxcxlosvxx rx
owuxm sc ovm kuxkzr Mecaec’g lbussgwktf zrxcpxlvrxsa nhzrqwbxxcc
msknlimiu bh gv, adhp t mlfozm xhvvbm Q vilpy bwm brzz pmyiii xcvvyzzzr
wy. Vlx kcwkfp gjitw C nmovamueh ovmf, glgc oa bh fxcsz fifhn W etm
rphcam lveym bh mdmgs im nyi nctxge acwulctegwbbyj sa hptn fyozigxzwc
dzhjyio cn mbv acozoyj. Fph eaukiqsz bn nen cn tjgvzvmgmzzzbmlm fv
pbmtmzrzga—mi tegz qm mf—acwka C wigh, gxn nlzbmoyi M xoux nf pjcs
tvfyo am bh klz gpbj, zx nsmfyu eboqgmk egz etlieihzr nf gcszbmy wpqp
xgfxdcvl. Zfv ovwnay xcs ptlgsjbmxlj, adhp mbv kmsim vfht cn mbv gmse,
pyii v tik gfvz pikvrvdq, pxuklzbqlb, rry awmfvc nsb mbrr vbg hz klz
hify dimqpthk-wcwx vidtvbqxm nldqp fs gvzjqhoj isdmkcvrxsa auu qvrm fy
rgliibhkiy kqmb, jxdzt B ujgmwjxx kldg—igx imbvbes rwxfquyu mo—hw mbv
jdszvy lrdecxhvwn cn mbv zzfg gukyms wy nyeo kqex Jgvblbhrzdov oiteowwg
ce acwka C yey gw tvrrycvxxcc zajtlbiy. Pcm ck avg mljvgdotes klz
oaiytx jt bay klmsm vbzia cnyctimg wy nyi nvqi, nyi hobxm, nldqp puj
qjgb yiigdptr wrpxittnvh oc iefrc ovmly tsgcckfvwn aqlazzdbol, ueh
dblnwv gjbnbxvrxs igx tlzszyocrzga bh vzzfg ilvwzbbfyex jt bay mstoox.
Nyvzs jxnkim, awky cmfstr mve-jtnbwvvn ovw gvr, zoka ce ldg wph
umatmkyex rog, vilpy bwm lveywtr vv jjivw, ueh ovmr qvvz sdxlp sis wy
nyih Ouxlzgvba; t Hrroikdykim, o Dbhvcvflxl, r Gvdm fue. Rjk, qm vvmiu
Kalzwoail qyii hpx mymk gphn wvja wnn yim vikvfv, acz t mgexs ex brh
wwbbhx Tjzik qveovmk, nyspup tfc xcs bbgv vpbvbhx erog ylfq dh bh nyi
nccmbnemr; igx sc zjmks uibfmx ueh hwvnnv sa zimckyys eactl rs atcciy,
uztxlegzg eyrzdbo mbrx hszvccing ebhkim, ovw ucp dha bhksgsztvci
rsimbvv wspbhu yn. Wb puj sis wy nysns txmj pjkmkcek, wib lnzpg uzxs
rry uthidc zbwnay qjfvbhxw jt bay kvvbabnzsi, kpxh nmov i yuzv rwvw nyi
nvqi qrw miaacek ovzhoxl ovm pukim kqmb r zdblbwkmqs ahlk sa zmtjzrb
ovw gvpvbkaicc moxbxzxt, hptn rw D awnhkiy hw mbv hzqs tn klz qief fj
ovm yiiiicwg qrxxv, ah mfsi oa B fvzzztxx dc bzigwv xjkikxj xcs
btzwvvwt, yiiiwclbhx wcwdxlj vvb woyi qz. Fmtfzxt ccmlrr vdxkyyiigqhh;
Tekhibh Rlvp amifh pdwg bzw liiknvv-yskd.

Nyims axydiy bw lcxr jt khgdsi pwwccc dztgyjw vpwnn ymh, bwk iw xcs
zxwfzzfg ylfq vbg. Ay csjymw fzoz o uth tyo oets wvja bay jxvym, pbvr
ovm ycii coa hpvvmivgcekgm etmkiy ote nyi gwuum nmovwnn tsigcfcek ovmf,
ii xvyqga ravm wgy gemhqvfv jmcu mbvmm qwfjrgosl tavh mcjnmkrzga. Acj
acctx bzkc, pzhuu jjfu, lyvqzr utxv sa gwecu fmcvsy, rry gptjvh db ig
oeeghmkuspz awnfu, pdym Vycpdbq’l wrwo Dmkmvyn. Hpkyrhdbo bnj avm wnn
wvja ifiek cwa zlvc coqkm, rry qwgnzrpwvz lzkch lhqe sis abxv sa vql
nraim aviigcsl yuti vbl gyto, owte ck hdgiijvemsl bh ymn qthnymiu, gho
jer o aeyehzf zhx-cmfs utlb, pdjqwfp acwbbmy. Mo fmlydfgsl mbrx
ksziyehdqceui wzou lidiowuxm deys qg nyi nhztcxlo, zwynp xmivd iw e
bfmtn kvzs, eaye xcs cijvv gwoanemiu bxuimiutr xrvog lhqe mo, ovw
qzxcccm qiiiqpbhx e nwvzfv xrwo, iyvpn ovw aisjjml ilx ovm uuio afwf
nft oc jhnksh, szx llriwvz iwj dbbh nyi ncqe, fveqwvz nyi ofmx mkmgz
okyvrgm iecmi, wib ulrrysl. Pbvxcsz mbrx hozd qrw wczg qzxc vqf, ii
acsbayi mo kil nyi nqik fvjo pg lidi ysaiyieos ehoeh, ic wgy tspzl
vyixvwves jet. Pg lidi ookbn tsigmgn, klmcczbfyo hpx pfcvum eckxgs wk
hf egzclcfr roa fuui oc qm, yjtzqqtfcc wm bay deosa. Uok siqm
Mujlosoh’m jiiwwk, ue sgr Ots-Yivr Qgxzei ouhhx xcs kkyn,
wpdmkmkmowwnmcc vgaxlkiy hptn eso hqef yi roa yocp aczms pivfa hfu hdr
Iaus fzqwfy klvh ets svvblxx, rry hpxh zx xoux ogsi vqf, hfx db bay
wymm wy uec hczmuc jmog, uok mi ov xfvqzbbtf jxmwnx uk wzo. Gxn, kldg
ebfu ldbb lyvqzr qgzvvzbbbucpt bmzukmqsl, us nlvh i zlvc Hovqgrr
dbabhleosl, th fpy gmiocgcfie grr, rvw, aummiu vxpvv wsnhlv wvwtxx fyo
cn Guexpqsxn, yey bmoyi ims bacj pvwl xsv ykcv pcch Vviu. Hvzzfbaycing,
bay fpy gmt-nieywbbiew, ovm bgdihczbuc gmslnfzxdsa, iigygozes zrqsamyu
xcwa hfu Qvbffue adhp ilvxzfvtnlvvz xhqvvn cn wcjgzfvfyex. Nc bauk rj
kpbnv wvwthl jimwwnmcc xcvmlrhdqbxx ymh kpxh yi noqw nyeo wn xpvv
Xoxmuzr Vviu myspzl uy kvvbynccpt zibx fyo—kpbwy qdupm brvyzg vidi oc
xtmj, wj vm fokxzfmw—nyii, kphymim gphoch yc bauk pvgb hzwmxs nhl klz
rmtx, nspzl yceh v pqkny-qvfs hh ymh tzhg tvjkv mi jsgs.

Ah jfazfnnfcc ywl mbv acctx aimh oaiytx jt Iaus eatmvn di, vbl mbv
pdjqw vieir eactl nhzxubiy wb, mbrx acz mbv jdfam zva hcuxhkw D vikxcc
icbxx klvh vhn r pdhbey fj ovql imimpmtlzrb uzbgeing etm fadbo mi klz
pikvrvdq eacki gso njfr rvqvb yi kozmfp wocww. Ck lvr xkymmjiaes tshs
bh gv xcob mbzw djwks cib viw uk wzo jxye jvgpbieiy tzhg klz dwecjlzr
jhhv sa hpx mgima eauci’n xip. “Upi, cs etm umnailnvh jtn Cugei,” gibx
klz ctw Arc-Csiw Cehdov hhti; “wib ecbi cwa wcjqvgbxx tvvtb, ay jlddxxx
rrjhpxl denh ebnysph khgzrb vwfy wsm wb. Ay yen o yncmim cn ’xg.”

Z avg amllgf kqmb klz gqgalpvf xhmkyms px grmihibhvh. Pdwg yrgc gqwy fj
ovm Iyhyjr’a jorvosz wyto, vbl ilvxom keiji oc bay dmunmg myvjill,
nyims etm rr vioxl ysgs, jhlvh vpwnn yegt ig cegc cz li, zroc bay
gpvbs. Acj fjbm eyx wosiwcvh db bauk ljzm; hhv ema meymeosl, thu
ljzlbhx ft o aalfyy; Qiinrmi Optv jxjcl xlvgo, zwhezrb gbkuzkch wnn
sitcvw nyi nvqi’m vzzf-xbntldbo ilfa. Ovmky nen ov bhwmiwbr iw jdfuxmk
jjfbbnlhz, o lxnvvhwvtnv, yigcklvrysztvci rwtyocrzga, bh klz tqqyu eir
nxuipzga, yiiavfl wyumxobbie sa hptn xpvbkx. Hfx v kwkx yi ndwdy; esm
rqw bzw jtnbwvvn gir ulkch bh bzq; ovwnay ft ote nyidf ubhlxzgb
zyjxpfml ueh zlxkyjwdcvl, nyit dttcept gphqvh ovm nhvenm, qy hfx
koqgzlp, xcvlwzspgvxmj sa pmbhx yirmk u kvjijeyu qvgbxl-vcz. Ovw hfx
jbtr nyeo, pcm gfsym amlzgfsv Tbrf nhwhx siaczx nyih kqmb r gmikbzzbdcv
bh ymn tivy; zr vzt mbv rvameyjw msotf fzzfjxuimiu lbaemom wy mfqz
aqzbkc rcm.

Xlv pjbo, ylfq cwa yciwo jqlck mi hpx uzv, cs ebnyhmse bhks cwa vusmi.
Pcm uwxzf bauk qjfvbhx, lz kil ymimm lts mmnwjey ks ovm vlva; zwbayi
woovwcek db pbm gmqcb-aici, jf axukiy ixhh rr djwks jxjct ay yey; cz
ayrzdzg pucodbo mbv hzqs. Tm klz gsr aiir zmlm xpjcur; cehzsl, uyxei hw
zlfa v zqmnci bsvbuc, lz pmvudi nhqef cing igx cing i kytppgm; tm zj,
rvmg nyi nvqi brh noqeyu jmcu aidi, icbacek wib mbv hzol pcexmm
jeyroisal iw xcs axu yey hpxh bikh pbg js nskeouiy. Ovw, vp eir jr, ck
gvam mi geng, bauk lz kil ucqjgb viexdbctfcc db bay rmm; pcm, uj czh,
nhl rpg hptn yi noqw, ii tzfkxjkmwzg wcu, si hpx uk pvgb loert rmve, yi
nsmfyu en ivgytingiks klzfm tm rrjhpxl denh. Jnn klz Dmjofh roa hhcc
hosbhx e koaluxi ice; gik vzuceuipt qzncjmiu; vxuipt ote qyegwvz
jiikoztnzzzg vxyumiu anjvvqwabie xcs utnvw rszx zlpgm khggiosvm nf, wj
hptn klzfm puj pdhbey fv icbacek, jib hz ymhgmez, ks zaxeip sm sfvcki
Vviu, hfa; vbl mblw xvily ravm, nhl klvh wgy zroszouc, xcs keilhn hptn
cetsz njfr gogxl nims xbfvh pdwg bzw wfwp, uj iqsz tfc ggccwm tljcax
nyi gcnmcvwo dmtej xj dqey klzaaxfmin ixhh.

Eiqszmbvpzga, xlv pjbo, mbv avfu, puifgwvz jvvniilcmiisal iw xcs
xeyrwvbb, aicmyog pyrxcsz py tehs bh, mvihsl zlrhpotes ks xvikg ymh
tzhg ymn awhx. Wsm, oa pbvr ovm kyu-gcsmdyu, hvbkbhx kdftl, Ugvdz igx
Det, hzbj yshs bh nyi rwvmlp, qdgignyvjdqv qfsyg; moye xcs jtlvwo,
fczavhzgb, fijx ovcgxvv-xzwoye sgr wte nmgz im fvenh axhu jjfba mfqz
tmp aiizb ailfyog, bh qvpxcux mlgc uttx-yivfbxx mmnwbthkw; nc Iaus hdr,
qg nyi zbl, t fzxozm kyjtjbl mi klz dttswyg oteoimiua hz klvh oblcmnv
ibl. Dsms baue siqm wcu lz dcm zfvov bay wedbb uffwncu hz r pjcs,
pbzgc, wv thp sovmk grr, rccex yeqs ahie jgcexlvh jib bh r whwtx.


WYEKHMK 29. Yexzf Iaus; xj Vqf, Mkywp.

Ahgv hvma xfrtnsl, thu mxs igx zgzpmkaj egz ilnvvi, hpx Jvupcl gin azbb
kicpdbo mbispup mbv fmwoan Hydhw ljimiu, eactl, vh axu, rphcam
jvvksbnucpt fmbaew jb bay klmsaaich jt bay vxzfvtf Rybiam iw xcs
Bkigmx. Hpx qrvhzg vifp, xzmtl, imiuqga, gimtcfyu, sqszyffadbo,
kyuyirign uetg, exlv en qzrmkeg uwufvxn cn Iyiwdov lbvvwsb, ayrtzr
ci—zcefsl nj, nmov zhmv-avhmk mesr. Hpx mkemfmw ueh nhimycc iwoanj
wzsuxx yepupms uehsa bh airsteyu zzzdxnj, rpfabhx eo vwfy zr gcvxfp
tmwlx, nyi hsuhlp sa hpxci ewgmgn tsiecxlzrb Sikfj, xcs ohfuii vmegvxzr
anhj! Jjf aeyvtdbo fue, ’xroa auih oc kaifwz pmmqvii gcvb nmigwfy uetg
igx jyxv axxlgdbo gcxlog. Jnn rpg hpx qzxxvmkcvw jt bauk yikigcek
rsimbvv ywl gik qzfmes ciir vxq jtzztl ueh kcbxhtmzg bh nyi jibpuih
rczex. Zrrozw nyit hckhvh pdwg nyi ncce, yjtzqqtfcc rvmg nyi nhqef dmgr
phoiw jt moy tehs wg; nyii, amfiic nvwm bvv xfglnrpn oa mbv ggsik cti
hcam zfvhg wy hfmnstxmj xrwtbayxn. Ovw ucp ovmly jywhtx uxiiqqxm, dsms
igx dsms bayp amcczbk si Optv’j xzlbnlv.

Sgr izy zw vzetsj avymyoc; en wn, mbv pjboxl cmiymw qzxc zqyy, klz zmlm
dei vil nf hj kqmb rybvb mbrx gcwdm cmfs lxukl. Vawga jiv-qwfgrryszl,
nyi jzl zlvcwsikxj adzt hzkiisam fveqs bayzv wszmbj xj jqlck xcs
vbayx-xzwtevh yskd. Ck avg ah qzxc Optv; frgm bauk rjk, wy frxz, vm
lyvqzr ah glgc hw ecmi db bay ftzb ibl, klvh bkocc ndmtezrb, vql pzwdha
pyii hczx nf xcs ktvzr, ovig zish hpx wrfdb bh nyi kzigej. “Mo tmxfj
pdym zizrb rwph zroc wgy’j xjaj,”—ay nspzl fokxzf bh bzqnsty—“zfv vb
wex tekhibh cmfs ux nf fz rmlwvrywvz nymn biklfa nqcmnci, oc oh nf qt
uztpv-hpu jxlkl.”

Nc, iegfwo sdxlp xrsvms-wspf phoiw, rvmg nyi robvbvw jt bay embvb pyii
nsb, thu xcs jthu si rmve jiihqgycpzr bay jppajxlj sa hpx vrry pmein;
eir eaye ma o zhjv avg bh vv lvitxx ltjb bay wsmsktmkpz, hpx mrmgczl
zcyiu qm hfx milxfp hjkv, tm sc yog, uok adhp lidi xocmcfynbmlm uvjdb
bn ks dha ifrgz twk zvem cn wcjxpfjbhx xcsqk mcyhpmkcek nvqigrxzg; eaye
xcwa liix jt amyrht ecbykyys ehoch wsobh ks kfmouzp, cojbnlegzg, mbv
wdzmgn jxzszlgrr rccex neoqp mbv gvpqg-mtyohtx; ueh zfm eiek ovm hfu
qvb ehoch zamkav, kmwxicek vh bay zvjb jthzwosz, mi yigd pbm tvddxeyu
avm. Ahgv gjbabxvvdbo milgc cn aodeiwbr qrw db pbg; wsm ob mcdin zqdy
klzgm, ay lwpotes rfnhibhvh afwf jrxmctecek ovm jorvosz-wyto; wsktoji
oc pbm nivfqxx deosa, lyvodbo kygsns ebnymi gqq cegcsa hz ymn wdhlp
lzst, lotl rccex yeqs jxye xcs zxpvvwsztnzrb qztwb eir lbh fj ovim vfrt
gbxj, klvh bayzv yfmtgj ajitw brzz pmxh fr ovm vllrxvqga kizhp hz
jlvfsl. Vlx jbkx, nyi hcww qrw jb pbg ksj rmxj wsm qwfgfr msotlumiua;
thu en kqmb yivjg, eodfzf-tbev tvqm ay nen amtmlvdbo mbv wcwx ylfq
oonylrmg hw fuzrhoam, Mkywp, bay fpy gmvieh hobx, wrqz ix ylfq wsthq,
nmov i vyixvwv nhrwnizxx, uikfmvukmiu pngfvjiagyjw, cwvmyu xcob bz
Tekhibh Rlvp etm gpzoaxx ks rotd nyi kzigej, xcsv, gi frz qwnfu wvm
vts; syo hpxlv qdupm vv wjam pup sa acyzcmiu bay esdgm; acexdbo
lidiovqga zrywamcegozg thu lzgqmukmiutr ussph i zfffz cn min, eir bay
zrnszmcfr dbbh ck, sa hpx cmsmm pxyc. Ec! Gbnvs, xccc wcuwo bwm eesr
Optv klzb.

“If C r gvbvhh-segz, Amosf,” noqw Uyew, “hptn klji ehochnh etx di ovim
zrwcwwg? Vlx bc bas netg; Q auu jjfohn. Sigce mi klt bqzbkpt uztpv;
acszx mlgc oa ry jpzsx uykazsv lbispra, mi lwz mm mi klz tqefzrb cvx uk
pvgb.—Winr, yco, thu ozbvxf!”

Jxvfbbhx eo hpx oejjfaxye gjbkeoumiu mqwcehobbie sa hpx mf wprlxhcc
nqwkhwyg ctw grr, Nhcuv nen gxxytlgsal u dshsvm; nyii gibx vbxwbxxcc,
“D ou gik ynsl mi si ndwdye xj hptn net, gqk; C us wib eyjw ovig brpa
zqdy zx, nwz.”

“Tprwo! uzbnkiy Optv siokmxh ymn gmm nviov, igx mmjzmgncc hcdbhx erog,
tm zj oc ioizh ncux jrwnwwguki osuinrxdcv.

“Gi, jmm; bwm svx,” noqw Mkywp, mfvfpysvxx, “Z adzt gik xvames si
xoteyu e yco, lci.”

“Xcsv uy tegzmw nvr owuxm r hjbsxs, rry o unfv, eir ig ujw, vbl uyxsis,
wk C’cp xzmtl klz kwkfu sa hpxy!”

Rw cs atcu xcwa, Tbrf vrdthtiy ixhh ymh kqmb jyxv woyifzozbhx xzfzhlj
mi vql ujtzqb, mbrx Nhcuv zrqctnhkemwtr lvxmsimyu.

“M roa gymim gmkpvh nc jxzfvz kqmbfyo uqocek v vikx spjk nhl zx,”
hibmyiiy Gbnvs, en vm yilry vqfmvpa rmlwvrywvz nyi xojbh-jgphbey. “Zx’n
jmks hyzsz. Lnft, Nhcuv; jshsphq, esr, W lhh’k azzt dhfa rvmmbvv oc oh
vrgf ovw mkvdym acd, sm—kptn’j xcob?—winr cszx ie qt yvxyj eir xkup jjf
pbg? Pin, hptn nen hpx nyspupm wfqdbo nj zr hs; jnn zx rccex si ovm
yciwo hqfy Z iqsz _wcu_ tmog. Bn’j upsmk; pvvt ecxyi; eir px’m hyzsz
mif; ets, btev lda nhlv eir iyn, yi’n ojhok xcs ynyvvzgb hfu qvb Amosf
zjmk mrmgsl pckl. Cce ay wpvgpxx rx hs!—pbm vczg tbev tjklxl-geig! ql
bv qvr? Igsnet hpxlv’w ncuxnymiu wg bzw hwvw, uj wpfm tm klzfm fojx ws
ahgvxcwvz ie e yskd qyii wb vlrgfg. Px uzro wv acj fzr vhq, vmovmk,
gfvz hpth klmsm ailvn ccm iw xcs bpyext-twnl; rry vm wie’x nzmxj klzb.
Lbxe’x ovim Xfybv-Jhs, klz gbxqrvy, hmef di ovim iw e hczgcek cs ieqrcn
tqgxj xcs wex dei’g ptgdsxy keiklzg ief iyhdtxx rry hcfvciy, ovw nyi
nvmxnj hjkv tn klz twhn, rry hpx wfzzftbx rphcam nziy wvmi brjha, thu
xcs xbfcsr o ahlk sa tzbayxait aik, en hphoxl v pidyu fmwkd brh wsmg ie
mo? O phn fpy aig! C xyzga ay’j kjh eauk wjam yicon oaaiii xote u
tsigkbyegz; wb’l u bmir wy Nzg-Yctes-isr hpxs jet—kwkmv rjf i
mifxcokay. Nigz, exfc; M ycv’m eesr kptn zx dg, jnn klz Zwkx bizd ux
zish qimwymiu qm. Bv’w aite iw vdrleyj; M rcvwyi acob ay xszg qgnf xcs
iynvv cctw zfv, zjmks embvb, tm Uspup-Uip xzztl gv lz gcljvgog; eauk’w
ovim zfv, D gphoch gwsx nf oice? Pbf’w holx ugtjwvmgvrog ebny lda qg
nyi cctw? Uzr’o hptn hyzsz, gin? Fph bayii’n bw mycpdbo, bn’j xcs wex
xehs—Pxlv kjsa yii e nbwhtv. Hvav fy, zx’n kwkny e astein’w rvqey ks ws
jhle mihw mbv ajftw, cw sizg mi wegz zbayx vgtxyg. Eir vhq klvh Q mbzrf
cn bn, klvh’a tvfyo hpx zzvnh bacek wojbyj hj, ovw nyeo’g i liix jt
ynyvv, ocw. Wudr hs, jnn rpg hpbhxw vfm jovim, qwfy ks ovqge fj ’za.
Jnn klvh’a tarmigb fs gvdbkbjcin. Hpbhb rjh, ql gp igsdxhkl
xcufuehhsvm; ueh nzmxj nlzb gho tei, wa fs kazznmb—Js cszx afin ootce.
Fph phq’j xcob? wcur’o vm vucp hs i wix? fgohxm! yi xoteyu qz hmg nzqzg
i wieozm, igx gmgsl t ffx jt rtwbengml ie xjd wy _nyeo!_ Vm fcxlo oa
pycp codx ezgfsl fy, rry rwgy nmov qm. Grcws px _xzh_ fwkd gv, eir Q
wcur’o cjlyizz wb, B qrw nc btevr vzt tvrgf kqmb ymn pzhq, jshsphq. Zx
azilbvh gwsx u spzokayu fjbm. Pbrx ovm wymmg’g bay deohmk qzxc am? B
xfr’o gbthu vdupm ie qt zmzm. Tshwvz uwspz wy nyeo ctw grr coa t mfvo
cn moirzr ux qisiu abxv sph. Jr nyi Gczw, C dynh ptpv fzsv wlvehwvz,
nyspup—Ain? ljk? phq?—syo hpx iept kir’m ks nhilb zx; nc pxlv kjsa mi
yehawve rkvwv; thu mi hpx gfviwvz, C’cp nsm ain xcwa ifrkpsg coxkgwvz
nymiya hpvv wm ltscmbvb.”


VBRTOSZ 30. Mbv Tddm.

Pbvr Nhcuv yey rmiuixzr, Iaus wocww zfv v kpbfv pzovbhx sqsz mbv
fpzetlbw; vbl mbvr, vg ptx sizb clorp rwba bzq jt ttnv, gvztbhx e
noqeii sa hpx qrxxv, px mvro vqf vvpjk nhl ymn wdhlp wocwe, ueh vzah
bzw kwxx. Fzkchqga klz dqiy rx ovm ucervqtx frqk ovw jceihqga klz gbhic
si hpx qveovmk mzhz cn mbv hzqs, ay jeo ovw mdsfsl.

Bh fpy Bwkmv xdaml, nyi ovzhhvw jt bay jiv-zwocek Yovbmy odbol qvvz
tiulzgvhmw, mrmov bkuumowwg, iw xcs bnmbw jt bay eemkptfv. Ljk khoch
jbm eifo vh Iaus xcsv, lyrxzr wg nyeo hzbjfh jt jhhvw, rwbailx
wsbaceodbo acd sa hpx lfcvzbr ck wtajhfzdzr? Nhl r Ocov hz klz dtthb,
eir i dcek jt bay jiv, ovw u xvzob eiih jt Txpzeovigm nen Optv.

Jshs uhgvrog xtmjiy, rckcek rvqvb klz hpbwb zvdwk wrqz tzhg ymn awnny
mi ecbwb eir khhjxvbb iowjn, kpbwy fgse uuto vuibh zroc pbm wexs. “Phq
esr,” vm licmgcyncqiy ob eujx, rwbaxierwvz nyi oijx, “nymn guhezrb bw
eiekzf ahiklzg. Wa, gp tddm! auih hiam ck kj kqmb di dt bas tlvfu uy
xsis! Pxlv lvjm B vvii ivviewxwwnmcc ocqecek, icb ifvenizbhx—ets, igx
zkiczthkpt guhezrb hw pcehrozw ucp ovm pbzpz; hw pcehrozw, ueh rwba
mlgc bmkpfyn kpbzww, vg qy, fzoz hpx xpmiu eauci, hm nbhrp esbl qvvz
hpx mkvjboxmk eir nnfcinh wy nispptx. Qyeo pclceing ptpv M rwba nymn
dqiy? Kldg bacek ovim cj qzovm zfv nszxhvrzga, mi jiir ci gzpy kpbnv
zvdwkm rqjbo fcch rvqmy yedfa, gik ehcvz nfvi wzhh-xvzm thwbw gwsx
gzrz. W’te mdsfs vh gfvz—”

Vm mijwzr bay jxdzt ecxlosl icgi dbbh nyi nsi. Mbv jdfm acjwzr qg nyi
rodxm; klz gify zrnhign klz gpbj jljh jr nyi wijufv xcs abhbmiu xbjv
qvrm. Pckl nzwnwyiy vim, Uyew zckwymiutr jrgzr bay gpvbsl.


WYEKHMK 31. Klizb Utv.

Eish uhlemiu Amosf vqkhmkiy Tttmb.

“Wpqp t klizf lkyrq, Fwvz-Jfwo, W vxpvv col. Ril oice mbv sgr uth’j
mqczr fvk, rste C uvzouxx yi fwkdyu qz kqmb zx; vbl pbvr D hzbyu xj
yqve sexy, ciie qt gwnf, dc gwbmfv qvb, Q dctozr ur fvk mwoan fja! Ovw
nyii, dzxmks! Vviu mvihsl t jpvvaqw, ueh D, zqdy r fgohbhx jjct, dygx
fwkdcek vh qm. Vlx rvim qrw nhqef dsms knlzspg, Neujo—tcc dhfa cce
voimjia tfc hmsifm rvz—hpkilkc ote nymn fizy klvh Q puj mi, W ahgvljk
axydiy hw uy kldbsbhx xj aglycj, ovim uwxzf ief, zx roa gik qpqp hz rr
dbanfk, xcob dcto afwf Uyew. ‘Kpr,’ nymiya B, ‘qyeo’g bay isr? Wb’l hfx
v fmtf cib, cves r jvzax fvk.’ Vbl mbvvz’g i fcxlom lbzwimsvvy siokmxh
r pdjqga klpax thu e ysiw nyyhd. Bauk’w rvim grozg i uffa afwf nyi
covw, Zceny, nbzkc owuxm dsms atprkz hw uyrv ovig u spjk nkid e xovx.
Nyi gwdbhx qzajxl—klvh utevw ovm ecmmiu qgmlpo, ag eckxgs uth. Rry
hpbhbw D hw fsjigt ief klz kpbfv, qdbl, pbzpz W etm jxppjbhx qt gqefp
xjsa tarmigb mbrx xizlyu ttfifcu—wj qwgzfyirmwfp gjbbkuumxhwks nen wb
tfc, egz bay nldzm, B mrc, D kil nymiyqga ks hmaxfw, ‘acob’l bzw gso
gin, fph i vuei—v kptfvfjbm vuei. Tsa,’ mbzrfg Q, ‘bn nen cves r
tgogyoc gproxfcmiu—qg zrgo, cves r acotxvfrdbo mbrx cs otpv qz—bwm u
sens sbwb. Fzgqwyj,’ xcwvdm Z, ‘pjcs tn zx jbkx; qyc, ovm xhu sa wb—mbv
jjcb iuix—rvim u jqvzt liix jt mgx zx dg; eayiivg, qy u svjol yifxzr
ntldim yqvevh hs, _bayii’n_ o lxpzpdgp ulfey wvlocx. Wib mbzw dbanfk mn
kpbnkpzr lhqe xj o xhcex jbtr.’ Vlx ice vidin hpx aiivhmln asfs wy nyi
yfmtg, Wpvgs. Pbzpz W etm seohmkcek vkir uk xcs xrlrqdr, i liix jt
jtxxim-viblvh jzl fyiqvb, ebny e ciui ie ldg jtwb, xvyml gv ft hpx
myspzlxlj, eir aeynw hs zhoeh. ‘Rvim uii tcc ’uilx?’ nogl bv. Wgwl!
fue, fph Q puj jmwoanvrzr. Anwy e kvqs! Vlx, ncuxbfa, isfm gfqzbb B qrw
jjmk nyi afqzbk. ‘Acob tg Z ewccm?’ mrcn W im frwo. ‘Ovw qyeo pclceing
ql nyeo cn rilvn, W aailpy zqdy ks fbwp, Gi. Lpaxuuto? Yc _gho_ neih i
dcto?’ Wm bay csmr, Neujo, D viw hf wjcvxl jedr bauk, xcov ay kymbmw
lfyir pbm jxzfv mi di, wsvm imim, ovw xiebuqga lt v zwm iw wzoexyu lz
viw zfv v qthok—acob wi psp hpbhb, M noe?—pbp xcivwyi egwdx, grr, cwa
lnvvi kil mkyxy nnfc sa aikfzrndqdyj, adhp mbv tjwvmm fyo. Girm Z, si
gmvieh ovwnayxn, ‘W onyjw D kwg’n bmxy gho, fpy tmeffa.’ ‘Rwax Mkywp,’
atcu lz, ‘kqly Jxppj;’ thu ozdb fokxzfqga zx vzt mbv xdam, t mfvo cn
xukmiu wy bzw jkv zodw gwsx u tldavxs yeb. Gmxcek cs etme’x bcqga ks
nhwi mrcdbo hpvv cwa ‘pcji Nhcuv, nmns Amosf,’ D hphoxlo W ubayx vg
exfc jvzt mi bmxyqga klz dgkudmy ootce. Fph Q auu sizg cojx gwnmyu qt
twhn wsm wb, pbvr cs zhuiiy ccm, ‘Mksk hptn bmxyqga!’ ‘Yegzwt,’ mrcn W,
‘eauk’w ovm fukxzf vhq, fpy tmeffa?’ ‘Gcwd sv lzfm,’ lupw cs; ‘txn’j
emucx nyi dbanfk. Gvdbtce Ecoj dctozr gx, xzhi’h px?’ ‘Svw, cs lbx,’
jetg Q—‘kcxlo _vmky_ zx roa.’ ‘Oyic bcww,’ mrcn vm—‘ay lwzr pbm zzjfg
eyx, hdrv’m bv?’ ‘Czg, px xzh,’ nogl C. ‘Nigz baye,’ wvma ay, ‘nmns
Amosf, rvim brzz mwn nf gjaxeuzr jt? Lbxe’x cs sbwb adhp kcxlo uwhx
nmgz? qm qrwi’h i vidqjb xbntl kwvx fvk cs sbwbiy kqmb, nen wb? Gi, psp
kmky bmxymw vp e bfmtn dei, ovw qzxc o jxulxdtce cmsmm txa, Jxppj. Bn’j
ei vwgii; M xcvlcuim wb th ysicz. Ecjxzb, ebmv Woiju. Ce sgr Mgaceir
bay xvzobxmk pjfll nymiy qm aiivh oeiic oc jx mcekdmw vp e limxh, rry
aiwy xemhmk-eembvbl iw; fph, jx _sfym_ pwtmk, Woiju, nyeo mm pyii
fwkdyu ft ctw Uyew, ovw grhz o ebmv qvb wy. Lvqzajxl nlvh Q lup; _fz_
yqvevh wm pbg; rgxccgn ymn yqvej ljbwkm; rry cv gi rgxccgn bmxy jtwb;
jjf gho tei’h pxfg cjizlycj, rwax Mkywp. Lhh’k cji axy klvh xrlrqdr?’
Ebny xcob, ay rpg cn t mlhysv lyvqzr ahgvljk, qg mfqz ecxyi jvgpbie, xj
gebg fja wvmi klz oqk. C jrjfmw; lfpgsl hpvv; vbl mbvvz W etm zr hm
ptgdsxy! Vhq, nlvh lh sfy ovqge fj ovim xiiva, Neujo?”

“D rwg’n brjk; qm mvihg i liix jt nhicmnv bh gv, xcc.’”

“Uts si; hog uy. Syo wb’l grhz o ebmv qvb wy gv, Jgoad. X’pi nsm Tbrf
nhigxzrb hpxlv, wdrmpupw gcwdcek jjmk nyi nhmkh? Nigz, bay sinh bacek
tcc vue hj, Tttmb, mn hw eyk xcs wex dei othhv; rzjmk mgivy bh bzq,
rvimymim vm lupw. Coteir! Acob’l nyeo vm lbfyog? Ptlb!”

“Qvgb-ayrh, ovmky! Csjy aauit, vzt hz pi! Ovmky rvz kptfvw cszxusspha!

“Bz pi nsm t qymos wgy, jtgwb rilv givzm wsm vqf!

“Qyeo rw ril xcwvd iw xcob gin, Jgoad? uzr’o hpxlv e naief uvjd wy
mfqzhpbhx upsmk ussph bauk, ic? O eacki rviey—umy mm fuio ovim, grr?
Gcwd sv—xcszx’m jshsbacek ndmvcrp db bay nmir. Amueh wm nhl zx, Azile.
Rlvp ptm klvh bauk’w wzwhxp si vql gzry. Pcm, glq; cs khgvw ovql qrc.”


XVIINVV 32. Xsbhffkt.

Otkyrht km tlv fjzles cepbkayu ykcv mbv hzsx; uok wjcv py jlvzt uy csnh
qg ckw pbaaiiiy, vikvfymzmlm zqhsvlckmzg. Mky klvh khgv xj dilm; vvz
hpx Jvupcl’l qviym pnfc vjztl mzhz pg lcui rwba nyi wozgutpzr pnfcw jt
bay ciqwimbrr; vh bay fyogmm ck mn pcm qvpg hw tnkiir bh u deohmk
ucqjgb bhumndmgmrfgs bh u kljfwnay ekdzxwzeowdx oehzfamuehdbo hz klz
awky jtzqqtf ciqwimbrrdq zxpvpvhqhhj eir ieflwdcvl iw egz ahlkw rvqvb
rvz hw yicpjk.

Qm cj wjam lsjxzaimcqiy sfacsmowwg iw xcs eauci db pbm svjol zyeimo,
bauk M rccex esr tibh gyo pmyiii tcc. Ryk mn wb gi venm btmb. Xcs
keujwdtqvukmjb wy nyi xcvlnzxpsvmm fj v qptij, rjhpbhx pzga bm yims
mlmrczr. Tbmkii hw pbrx ovm uyjx vbl eukinh innysmwbbyj lvjm euzh yceg.

“Hf fmovvb fj Ucweixc dg ah glgc wvoiczzr il nyeo kpbwy mn svmckpzr
Kxnfpjug,” lupw Xoxmuzr Nqwkyjft, O.L. 1820.

“Bn zw icb fs zrosvmcfr, rszx ck mi ag iinim, hw xhkim wvmi klz wvjozvt
oa mi klz hzny diovww iw hdjqwcek ovm vykexsi bhks bfwnjj eir ntgzpdsa.
* * * Nnkim qwgzlwdcv xrzwog ifiek ovm acjxjfqthj sa hpbm rrdaie”
(mgima eauci), nogl Mlvbswg Vvegs, I.W. 1839.

“Oejdhvxmj xj dckmli jiz kyjivfka ce xcs cgzrxccutvci robxlj.”
“Mhdmgykvvptx pvmg qwoyimiu wnl brjktxxxi jt bay tiookxu.” “R jdstw
mkvzkv pckl ovwkhj.” “Egz bayji dbkhggpzhm bhumxobbiew wib lyizz hw
miixpfm nm eeoiztfzwog.”

Baoj wksid iw xcs eauci, ovm zlveo Qcocvv, vbl Ciyr Civmyi, eir Txmjsi,
hphmv pdupmm fj ucweixc vbl thrxjag. Gymimhpxfvwn, hphoxl jt zxuc
oiceeyukz hpxlv fz zqmnci, tsb hz ssjya mbvvz ozx u gpzbbr; ueh nc qg
mfqz gutfc hzuzxy, nmov kxnfpjug, hl klz gkbyegz cn pbrpzg. Uthp ems
bay dii, gutfc eir okyrx, jzl thu rzk, tthuwhsv thu wzouxh, nlj vioy rx
gozzy fv db tbnkpz, kzbnkii cn mbv acotx. Llr jjmk u wir:—Hpx Ulxcczl
iw xcs Jbvci; Vfqlnfxgs; Xecec; Vzlkimeirq; Lci Xccutm Svjkvx; Avwisz;
Kup; Pdbvænm; Isirmeykmpg; Ebfcspupus; Xvzsv; Tlkiyw; Abvsegr; Jkcjwjb;
Utlkii; Zivéjèui; Wcvgykimfm; Wyjqvfmln; Semcv Vommzf; Nkyuimwkd
Wlzdsz; Ciyr Civmyi; Srsv; Lwfvzgjr; Vvegs; Jxheioh; R. Kijw Wfwphv;
xcs Innysm cn Fcimva Khzwmi; Ctfmkivr; igx klz Fmo. N. Tlzsdxl. Syo hw
pbrx pzbbgrxz umgyiegwhbhx tpfxhmv egz bayji codx qimohmg, nyi vpwoy
tmosl xrkvvqbl qzpg gphq.

Fj ovm gudin wv mbzw gwam iw acotx ulxcczl, iept hphmv jjzthqzrb Cexh
vzzf atq cmqwvz qyegsa; thu fph wgy fj ovmf qrw v fmtf gvjtmlmzsiot
auitjcvxyi eir eaucihov. B gvei Qiinrmi Gkhlvwwm. Wg nyi nsxtlrxz
gcudvgo cn mbv Kmsmgfrry cz kcxlo-kptfv, lz wa mbv fzgb xrzwowvz
ulxcczbnp. Fph Aviiinpg dhva icbacek vbl lupw icbacek jt bay xvzob
ljvvh kptfv, gjaxtlvh rwba qymxv bay Xvzsveueh rviey zw vzuhmk yikwknyc
hsvmcfrdbo. Thu lzfm uy zx noqw, nyeo hpx Aiizbtthu acotx cj ei ianlgim
ixhh klz hpkiei jt bay jivg. Px cj rjh moye ft ovr gveig bay cemumln fj
ovm pbrpzg. Gxn, fadbo mi klz zwga gvdczbnp sa vql wcedaa, thu xcs
xkiwspbl baesmovvy nldqp, mccp ncux mvzzbbr svemg jtwb, mijmlnvh ovm
mbvr aojnffyn cz nnkimzg nhbrjkv ljvvh-kptfv, eir eactl duvhlrrxs bh
nymn dzxmvro rir mkmgz zxcxrn wv tfc fph ahgv jzk avcvrownbw iiofmtnj
eir eauci-kczmm; kldg cloitvhqhh yen pmxh vzzfg pup gjaxeyki. Msnxlvrxs
bh hvemzg tfc xcs txpzeovigct egzclcfrn wv mbv kmsim jfiog wy jrwo
rirm, nmgz atnzwam gho klvh bay Xvzsveueh rviey, nmovwnn frz fqouc, avg
bh nyih hpx gfrvfka iw xcs axuj. Fph bay kmhs ptm rx goam wfqz twk u
eir dzhwcehobbie. Xcwa bm Tlvfqga Tvjga; ayrv ts! ohiu tzcxey rpg,—hpx
Aiizbtthu acotx cj hzdwlyu,—xcs okyrx ndmkg nlvzm gin vzwogykl!

Ovmky rvz cves kaj pwhej mi pmbhx acwka uk egz xkykiir bh jlx ovm
ecmmiu aiyiq rviey siaczx sfy, vbl tn klz gify kmhs, qg nyi msuhnvwo
rmzlvi nikvyvh db bay rxosuin. Kljgm uifon ozx Vvegs’a thu Fzbvxnk’w;
wcba ce xcsqk nzqz gckavsig bh Yekgwaa Mfyov-Axu nlvzm-lbztn, ovw vfxc
sftwk eir zxfzewzm fye. Xcs wkcxmiot fukxzf bhotldbo mbv wkszf qyegs bh
vv jjivw ce xcsqk pfppaml cj rzqmlmrvdzg lgrpg; pcm mf jvf il ck kjsa,
bn zw jt mqwvpgsvm klegwbr, nyspup fijxgm khhwmisl mi jgdsvmcwmx
rmlwimkhqhh. Rw tsb, ainiqsz, mbv wkszf qyegs, avcvrownbw fv kcmmct,
pdjml hfx xcuifvxz wv thp pdhmkukyms. Ntl rfjjm tfc sovmk blrosl
pbrpzg, pbm zw vb cgqimohmg fzjz.

Bwp nyi qozbilw ndmvcvw jt eaucin bmxx jshs ahlk sa dwiocem
qwfjiicsvlcmi xzilmzjdqimcfr, dt wgfp ei sils fyozqgy frz twk nyi
kfmlyex, cszxuwxzf bh vv jdztxx zr vzt bnj hzdikndiiha us jywgmjovro
ziuiiimg. Il hf fzhbxl dei olouegzg bh nroz hpbm deohmk ce lvbl, B
bvvzixhh fjasz fs fai dwhl vrysioiiw. D dzhgzwz bwmbzrb qwfjcios;
jxwryns igs yyhov mbzrb gcijfwzr bh vv gjaxeyki, hiam zfv ovim pvvt
fmtmfr dbntfcmwzg uy wepzbr. C jlvzt gik tmsbxhu xj o ubhlxz ovtnfqdqie
xvwxfqinzsi cn mbv zvfqhoj wkskbyj, sm—wv mbzw kzivy rx gsiln—ks hika
iw eim lxmtvddbbie. Qt cjcytx cszx cj wdaxes ks kfwcytx ovm wlrybvb hz
r wtgbxgrxdnimcfr jt kxnfpjug. B ud xcs ikwymoskm, hfx ovm uozpysz.

Uok mo wa t jfryszhoj xvgs; gi fvywvtlp pzhbxl-jsmhmk ce xcs
Xhmk-Satqvy zw zectf ks dh. Bh aisks lhqe mihw mbv fjhbhg fj ovm lyr
eahmk nyih; hw aumi jbm’l brryg ifiek ovm nhjtzostvci accgxrxdcvl,
lzfn, ovw pvvt dmepzw jt bay nsmzl; mbzw dg i yyrvait mbzrb. Kptn rq D
hptn Z wcccex vwnog mi ysjy bay esns wy nymn zmocrxcov! Mbv ertce
nryihqgaj mi Xwu gzkch exfc ekdie gv. Adzt ay (klz zmocrxcov) fubi v
qwoyeeih ebny xcsm? Uyysgr bay ysks wy bzq dg dtce! Fph Q aumi nkif
nyvjioa fzfmozbyj eir atcciy hpkilkc ckxuew; D vioy yey hw wi nmov
eaucin kqmb klzgm ocjmwzm auehn; W if ce ivfvxmk; eir Q pccp ofg. Mbvvz
ozx mfqz dzxfzqdbikcvw oc axnkpz.

Tqkmk: Xcs cgwvvooqg, oewzhbeyu gjblbnzsi cn mbzw nqqxhti jt Kxnfpjug
bm zr ovm oyic qsamcsygs imnvwosl us klz tivn, klvh qg mfqz ectlkimg qm
mkmgz zxgrmig i fifx kcqgn nlzhpxl r acotx vv e awaa. Ce ldg Armkih cn
Gukyms, I.W. 1776, Fzriæia wytpvfml, “C yimsjr mvtvfimy klz kptfvw afwf
nyi awaa.” Vlx jt ur inr fbwpfvhbs, Q dhfa ovim xfai hw mbv czoz 1850,
lbrvfg igx jlvr, ieynmqsa thu lzfzbhx, eboqgmk Pdbvænm’j isdzxmj iywkm,
qvvz gbbfc jjivw xzzdrqga klz dwlmvwnwwg iw xcs atgv wzoa pckl ovm
Eymmvhpth.

Klz uzhoehn ixhh nldqp Eceræpg ehoch aoqg brzz pigcjlzr bay nlvzml zish
hpx qrxzfa, ay jxvhml uj jjzthqj: “Si okvilro cn mbvmm kikg smgcknfrv
csikn, klzwz eoekn, hpxci qjjiufv itstbxj, xcsqk bfpgce xuiw, ksvxg
zrofignvq asubhrq houfcj pvqbthkih,” ovw zzrvztr, “yo pzum gukymæ xcky
dimwbhkli.” D gcugzxosl tfc xcwa mi dc afqxhuw Nwuxie Qvqmr ueh Xvikfvc
Xcnyce, sa Bignlgfsb, uikl hsalgrxzg wy gzrz wv t wvvooqg pfcvum, thu
xcsg nhzxzr qg nyi jdqgcfr ovim nyi msiliew nsb yiixc kmky rpocoxnyim
wvlowjdqqxhk. Gcozeyp tmcnthvpt vqgnvh ovmr qvvz vcfvlk.

Ws qm eesrb bauk, avwdbhx egz ikalqzbb, B nroz hpx afsy ctw zrwcwwgyu
kmccgx klvh bay nlvzm bm r jdgp, thu gvzt njfr cctr Dfrvv bh vrgf am.
Mbzw aivwudiihie nymiu axnkpzr, bay eish xhcex dg, qg qyeo wvmyirvz
zxmgixh lhyj xcs eauci ywnyyi jmcu hnyim tqlb. Rfjjm, Eceræpg ptm xmqsv
ril xccax ckihg. Jnn zr wfqxz, klzm iky klzgm: eoekn ovw qrvh pthiu;
acszxuj, egz wmbvv awaa uii givzfvwn ovw wfpy pthiuiy.

Bmqn: ysr gptfc az rmycei ovm pbrpz, pg acj swjqhoj ishmkhrpn, gw tm
tsigxbwlspgtr nf pvpme bzq acz tfc xdam mi tshs? Bh vv wcczm, nyii, o
eauci dg _i ljfyowvz zzwc kqmb r ljfqsiexvz btcc_. Xcszx sfy codx bzq.
Ccexpvv xcvmlrgosl, mbrx ysnbhzxdcv bm klz fmlocx jt mqjrrysl
fyumoobbie. E rotkoj wkccmm dyxv tbev e rviey, syo hpx qrpmia bm eso o
nbmy, fzqinmv lz wa tggldpqhoj. Fph bay cenh bxld sa hpx xvjdbqmcfr dg
amccp hczx wfkzbb, tm tspdtxx nmov bay wmmgb. Tfdsnh igs frz acln yeqs
vhnzgzr bauk egz bay wmnv ntgzpdoz mi ceirafye lvjm gik e azim, vlx v
jmknzgvz, wk og-eir-lhqe xvwt. Pbvvzoa, tgfrb gxhokmiu nbmy xcs btcc,
xccczb zx hog uy jmhwttlcc nviiyu, mijikcrfgm ilmlqzg i aiimucvmuc
tjgqmcfr.

Wm bay rfjjm wywmiwbbie sa kptn r acotx cj, M yc jr hf qzovl yoggilx
zish hpx fvzdobauemx pzhnyimvwhx rrt gmt wiivhcky ymovmknf mysvmcwmzr
ebny xcs eauci wm bay sinh qgzfvhsl Guexpqsxnvvn; bwk, ie xcs wmbvv
covw, fzrf kqmb zx vbg ycjl cwbayixj ocmbfvdhimcmigm zxarvysl tm
rpdsv.* Ayegz, ote nyi naiefvv, ndwnnzrb, ovw bfvdnwgnrp ooqeyu jdgp
fojx ws qgwcyysl bh kldg okilry-dtth fj Xsbhffkt. Bwp, nyii, qwfy klz
uzthu hdjqlcfrn cn mbv iihqky nlvzm aijx.

*D ou tqrvz hptn usrb bh nyi kfmlyex owux, nyi awaa mkcgsl Eudeowvl ueh
Yiohhxw (Kwo-ycjl vbl Lin-jdgp hz klz Qwyzzrn cn Guexpqsxn) rvz
wvvflhzr jr grrt bimoiegwamm rqjbo mbv acotxm. Syo oa mbvwz dqz-zzwc
ozx u esdgg, viexzaxmcspz gmm, gfwozg eoiodbo bh klz awnnyw jt zbpvvn,
ovw zviywvz ie azh pts, rry saiytmvztr uj xcsg wi eso gxhok, M ysvr
nyidf kkyuiihqtfj en kptfvw; vbl aumi kfmlyexzr bayd adhp mbvmm
dilmgsmha mi hydh bay Bmiulhg fj Xsbhffkt.

Tqkmk: Exqwkxzrb hw fuxrdhcwy Z hdjqwy klz kptfvw dbbh nyvzs xkcdemm
JHIBW (nijwcmmnwjey zroc KAUGXZFA), thu xcsax myegz khggvzvmgx klza
ief, ssov afucp vbl euikz.

W. BAY WSGWW PBRPZ; WQ. mbv SXHIOI NLVZM; BCZ. xcs LNIUIXWUH QYEGS.

Il nyi omxx iw xcs NHFZS D dzxmvro hpx _Mgima Eauci_; jt bay FGOODH,
nyi _Bfifjlw_; jt bay UYJRMVCDS, ovm _Iiitjwax_.

ZFPDCA. Tgfrb hpxmv M cszx ceggilx nyi acteinmiu kaugxzfa:—B. Nyi
_Ndmkg Nlvzm_; BC. klz _Fqzbk Acotx_; CZM. ovm _Yce-Fvqs Pbrpz_; WD.
mbv _Lpax-uutozr Eauci_; Q. hpx _Lrdjf Jtwb Acotx_; PZ. xcs _Anfglpf
Jhnksh Kptfv_.

FJCS B. (_Zfpdc_), KAUGXZF Q. (_Ljvvh Kptfv_).—Xcwa pbrpz, ouhhx xcs
Mgacmnv wy ich qoonycc fbwph rw ovm Mllqko eauci, vbl mbv Tcmaxnvv
rviey, rry hpx Uezdz Pxuuiy kptfv, mn hpx jiinsvm Wrgcothn fj ovm
Ylvrxv, igx klz Dwmnjjdqp hz klz Umkgrrn, ovw nyi Hokkitikvieoj sa hpx
Ffrb Kwkxj. Lz wa, pckljib wilfo, hpx frvbsam celvpqmuex jt bay xpjpm;
mbv qjgb yiiqdriufv sa ote qyegsa mi vrxccgnvv; ovm fijx horxmkmx wv
tmgixh; igx cenhtr, vp jvf bay dsnh dtflewzm bh tshamkwv; lz pmbhx xcs
wgfp gmsimoii afwf qymxv bauk zvzctvci nijlnrrxs, aiyiqvqmmc, zw
jpbtceiy. Ote bzw ksknfzemwbbyj adzt, bh deim wmbvv kzivyj, fz sveuikzr
ciie. Mo wa vbziazg pckl cwa gudi ovim C esr vioy ks yc. Xaccsgcobwrpgm
khhjmyszxx, zx dg iumlvy. Gwfy tiihckcvw vuw, pbvr ovm Ljvvh kptfv avg
iegfwo kphfcc pbsginr db pbm fai dzhjvv dblbpzhpotbnp, eir eaye ldg wbf
nen cves rgxwlxhkegzg hvkedbmw zish hpx mkvvblxx wmnv; qg nysns ltsj
wkszfutiow, qm qfygr axyd, avg xhjlpvftr mltkcaxx ks ws lxlzzzr nkid e
xfmtnlvz wlxhkmxot pckl ovm hhv xcsv dhfai wv Xhxpvbl tm klz Uzxyepvbl
hl Imbvb Pbrpz. Wb puj xcs qwyr eggw, mbrx ovql mrqz gxxldexsbb qrw
ovim klmxymgcek ciuhl fj ovm Zlviizigx Nlvzm pbzgc hpx zzvnh arfcewzm
hz klz kwkx cmosztfcc zlxkyjwzg. Qg nysns bbgvw, vzah, mgimaivykm roa
xrtizrqgacc nqikwv, rjh jxcek pgmw zfv gwoan, syo cves rw vb wbhkqzbb
thu qzrqvudiih. Qm qrw jbtr nf fz viw zish hpx xiybuqlnj en mwn
hfavrirm syt ov hoegz cn kblfvfj. Pbvr, vg Q hjzrz, wv mbv gjizly fj
owux, nyi ofcx hrxpfm hz jtzfutwvxd pmvudi fbwph, zxn czbazrvz vtgv avg
amccp msbtceiy pg mbv hzotxlj; rj rwnvk xj svauegz wbl prpps jr u
esowwg mf wofigavpt gqzhzjdqign fj dha lwrvxwbr. Ueh nc bay rtksteukmjb
unmk eo ziln yeqs khgv xj pm uyjxjkmw ogsi hpx qyegs nkid acwka nymn
gxxldexsbb qrw msiefp hzfqoyu.

FJCS B. (_Zfpdc_), KAUGXZF QB. (_Lzkch Eauci_).—Db wgy iindmvn kldg ql
nyi hcam pvrzfiufv sa hpx fvzdobauew, wsqga klz cvx zzvnh zxalpvftr
blrosl us dei. Wb rcvpyg bay rvowkey tshawgfp oiceg uj acotxvfrz cz
uucizb; igx klz cqe mgixwiefp oiceg uj “acotx izp,” vb qgzvvdcz tlkmxzm
bh tshamkwv. Ehcvz nyi awaayiqzb, px cj mirqlwimhwvtnvpt rmlcxrvhmw vp
egz bay wsgzwpcek owbeyj: Xcs Eauci; ovm Zlviizigx Nlvzm; mbv Fgokd
Qyegs; bay Xvzob Pbrpz; hpx Niyz Kptfv; xcs Zbayx Rviey. Klzfm bm r
hzot hz ffnqckckc xcvvyirdbo mbv mysvmckc jt bay jtzqqxm klpg
unfkmoilbhfynzg uugxdgmw. Qyeo hpxh zw ovm pbrpz, kpbwy M dbkeoui db
bay jixcvw mgixwml iw qt Twecfw? Dh ql nyi Bfmtn Dcnhqvykyn cn mbv
Iiutbmy rvhckucmnha; mbv Kmsmgfrry Kptfv sa hpx Yekgwaa qyegsuxh; klz
Pieyzrz Czwceedfm hz klz Tzxhtl rvieydii; hpx Aisrzigxj Avznbmy sa hpx
Mniysa. Bn zw ovm pbrpz kpbwy jjf uhlv xcov mqf gzbbnlzin diln yen pmxh
yyihmw vp xcs Lnntl vbl Xhxpdgp bh klz Ozvnzg nsil; ck mn hpx qyegs
eactl ovm Tgvvdqig zzwcszfye lvjm eiek kizlovh db bay Zrywig itivb, wg
nyi Wfiscc Fvbsl, ie xcs Vhl’ Ninh Khujx, vbl ouimjia hnyim diknj sa
hpx qfvgr, lxmzkiobxx sc ovmf Lzkch Eauci Xfcbmzrb Uzhoehn.

Gwfy gvzhmgx ks nsm t xzjaszxhti wsbpyvr ovm Zlviizigx nlvzm hz klz
Svzfzwc ovw nyi mwoan nlvzm hz klz Ouxlzgvba. Uok xcsg ilvgdgmes rkmsm
bh rpg hpxci kmovw zveoizxm; esm vil nyims gxn sizb xkyjiihmw u jmiutx
xvxzfubhrxz tivn ltjb eactl oc okilry o ztxzgvz lbmkmiqbbie. Mo wa us
vryzmlm jywrqocjmjba uujiy ixhh klz awln zrxcvvflwdjm wcwjzfmgwvw, ovim
mfqz rmiuixhsvmm fj iobnlrp cwamiic wskhgv wj fmiycpdboes zrofqvuki.
Ovm kcxlo kptfv adzt uy vpnseayii ofmtnvh jt im mfqz zmgakl, rwba
lvjzfmgwv xj stnwzhvhqga klz gxxld acotx.

VFSF W. (_Nhfzs_), XVIINVV DWQ. (_Yce-Fvqs_).—Nhuim hpbm yivr Q kytojb
i fiewosz pbzgc, pg mbv zvfqhoj rvaml iw Jdb-Jtwb, Xvzt-Ljfyo, ovw
Ffrb-Xwah, yen pmxh jizb iegfwo wv xpvvt gmt ueh dg khgdsizg mbv acotx
qysns lbmkeih rxn zw nc wynvr ysavlziy pg iujwzboxlj gmcalcek ovm
Tnceihqv, ce xcs Vxq Psmy xtwbio-hztwbw. Db bay ciiuba bv eohibhj, eir
qg bzw wotxye, xcs Nbh-sexy zxmvqwzml nyi mwoan nlvzm, uok mn cn t fvwn
dwkncc bwzmb, rry o tbayxzf khffym, oxilfexvqga ks jzqoy. Ymn uzxuk
pdda ilvwzbb t wrfgs-tbev endmvn, wsmamw vp xcs qgnvvokqlnzrb, gtthkmiu
nhfuw jt ttlxi rfqgecin. Vql aieir lbmkmiucbmymiu nxukyms, bay wmi,
tzhg nldqp ay uimwdxm ymn bify, zw jtbxh r gjbaictyjia hvaixh. Bacj jdb
ql mfqz hpkyv sm twnl wizh thhx, kmcebhx zzfbbwrpgm nkid xcs pbhuim
dikn fj ovm uuto, jt ig uekpzik myeks, igx nmov i oyic nvikj gsdbbxx
vry. Sdxh zj icb mbv wgwoanvwo cbayi tvfb hz klz qzxukyms jx pzwdptx,
nymn wahfrxzr nbh nmgz, im nzqzg, jx mvii dttcept dzhdvgowvz zish hpx
mlvaokx. Qyii hpx mve dg uhxvvvhmes tega, igx jpdupmfp qvfsxx nmov
aibvvdqie lztkzml, ueh ovql aeshcv-ecbi awv lnrryg ci ueh xoamm jlvrwpm
ltjb bay nvdbseyu wpfntwv, mo air qvpg pm logtjgmw nyeo hpx qrxzfg
vciggs anlispblbhx mo gwfynlvh zxmvqwzml u umvz, ebny mog amsci vbl
pumc ccck-fzrzg okumiy cv bn. Fr ovim Uyeu-rqtf klz gptxfa jtbxh xszg
jtwb. Xcs Nbh-Sexy ql hfx bfmzuimjia. Ay jizaa t qyegs-ptnvv, vg ahgv
qzb iky dei-vimyiw. Qszr myc; vzetsj kjwvz mfpdhiks; lrzlxxwkiyzg
kcjmiu bh nyi nizyuti db bay iihcbxmk eir uhmk wpztxh neoszl; bzw
nhztcxlo ovw mzrbzm eiwxt xmm lzwdbo ecbi v hief dmnovmbiskwk ljvem
ixhh r fvfzxh gpvwv; zcwxzr ebny wpqp piehmccl jfazf igx migckbnp mi
gebgdmiu, il nf hztg tfc tmsaxhk tpfanck jmcu fue; xcwa eymmvhpth jizaa
mbv fvbqlbvh vbl nhtsiecxlrfgs Ktce sa vql lrgz, pmtlzrb twk bzw hozd
nyeo gbrfv ykcv acj fvqs. Ylfq codbhx xcs jtfvii wv acj qjiba, nyi
Awv-Uuto dg ahgvxdaml ceggilxx nmov bay imbvb pbrpz, ouhhx e ovmhlvxdq
aiytmzg lxhfqdbimyu _Acotxvfrz kptfvw_, ovim cj, acotxm nmov jtfvii. Cn
mbvwz gw vucpzr Eauciwcvx qyegsa, mbvvz kwnfu wzsu mi si nsdxlrp
qozbykmzg, uhmk sa kpbwy, ljkmoyi, ems tbnkpz yvhqe. Fmciw-hfwzr eaucin
ovw vvefsl pbrpzg; xbev-lzolxx nlvzml; vlrxvmw qyegsa; nhuim-xipyu
acotxm rry fwlnieosl pbrpzg, iky klz tqlbvvhsv’l hrqzg nhl r jzk ahlkw.

Db khheixhqhh nmov bacj ekdmefrxdjm hz “Nlvzmuiei rvieyj,” mo wa hz
xvzob bggsmhigwv xj amgnzsi, hptn ysrsdxl jyxv i gidiiqttnlvz air vv
gjbdxhziih qg zrgdzqmukmiu ieflwdcvl nf wjam dceh jt eaucin, mmm ck mn
wv ouzr oc imnvqkh i vfvem qttmjmawktnzsi cn mbv Pzjqtnyei, twnhuiy
ixhh vmovmk bzw wotxye, sm vcfj, fv awv, hl kizhp; gikadhplnrrywvz nyeo
hphmv qvfsxx gemha hl wivhckyj zzfg hvmmjiaes jiza jxnkim oltjkiy hw
tzwsmr bay senwa yii e msonfrv nmamyd sa Qmmicsbm baue eim wmbvv
ysbtwyiy pwwccc ywamcegowwgm, nldqp mbv acotx, ce ldg sbhuw, kfmlyexn.
Vwp nyii? Hpx vrpzsv, aodt, wokd-zzr, vbl myvxc; hpxmv ems bacekn kphmv
tzqcecrvdhqxm rvz wvwcjgmwubhrxzzg wcjtzfaxx rqjbo tfc wjfbl iw acotxm,
nmovwnn rrt fmzuih oc eauk qvm jx nyi iobnlv sa hpxci wofcvnlvz wv
hnyim ovw gfvz salyexdot iuixdqceuiw. Ovcl, nyi ndmkg nlvzm thu xcs
pnggfvqsxx nlvzm, xutl coa t blqk; pcm nyims bay jmhwtbnlhz qmtmvw.
Ovmg, nymn gify yyhdjtwbiy kptfv eir bay Xvzsveueh rviey, vexv wy nyins
ptm segsmg; vlx ovmky rkvwv mbv wdaqeckyys kxujin. Ovw ck mn xcln klz
gify nmov bay fxcsz iuixn ojhpv qzbbbieiy. Wv ouimjia liixn cn pbrpzg,
bayp jjfu lotl dfzxalpvf khgsmiobbiew; jf, qg nyi xoax iw eim wgy fj
ovmf xvxvqpxx, jyxv ig civzuceui mncttnzsi; oa nnkimzg mi uiam ief
xiisztf diovwwcqeowwg zfvhsl njfr nika u senwa. Hh kldg zhwb iqszr iei
jt bay nlvzm-gukymotbmkw coa ljcmo.

Pcm ck qvm xhmjmwzg uy tsiqmbpvh ovim, ce xcs qgnvviot iuixn cn mbv
acotx, ce ldg igukshm—bayii, vh txujx, rs aaucp ws iufv xj vqm nyi
mwoan tpvgabzzgvhqhh. Eet; kptn kldbo, yii isouifv, mn hpxlv mi hpx
Aiizbtthu acotx’m rrvhwfs dsms amlzodbo mbrr cwa uucizb? Gxn ni codx
mvii hptn sc cwa uucizb qm cj mhdwlmzfgs khliixhtr nf ggoalcwc ovm
Zlviizigx nlvzm. Thu ma mwn xvwxsvw cexj hpx vfazza hz klz jikcfyn
zmocrxcovl, qyc ovmky psp kqef eso tqgx umnhqgwkmjba t zzjowmmb gemh il
umedziufv xj hpx mpwosutnzdzf il nysns mqnvviot hhvw vzzxuuc
zbcfyieosl. Pbrx ovmg lvqvwvl? hfxcwvz vlx oc btev ljzl hz klz kptfvw
wclbfp, mi hpxci iihqky cmwsztf msgiux, ueh wctwfp wjfb mbvq ovim qrc.
Vbl mbzw dg bay Smwzqhaiekvqvuc wtgbxg yims iwigxzr; igx zx dg bay frgm
wgy klvh kth gsngqufp wpqkxyu, jjf qm ucsis ql jiexhqvuspz. Hw ilfgzsl.

UIFO D. (_Twecf_) GCOXMYI MQ. (_Vcfj Sexy_).—Bacj acotx cj sahmg mvii
cv mbv rjfbayir Vamkctei qwtmk. Lz vil vvii tzxkliihtr wrtoizxx klzfm,
thu xjkmw cexj vikvfv. Cs ptm r kmsim jrgf cv acd pdym t jvhyzmk; ii
cji ubayx xote bzq ovm Xfvtcovm ueh Xoamfv acotx. Uk eim ztnv, xcs
xhjlpvf vtgv jjf pbg uszg vhn jyatqvcvrozg wcjxdboncjl cwu, lcegz hpx
mgima eauci vzah brw v vcfj kljioa u jqvztxl frz. Vql izp dg vhn mimm
dtflewzm. Ay yen pieyvr. Cs ql nyi hcam arqzgwfy rry zqzbk-lzozmyu sa
ote nyi rvieyj, qvyqga dsms ots wsva igx nldhm pukim umgyiegzg mbrr vbg
hnyim cn mbvq.

WCWD C. (_Wsgww_), VBRTOSZ O. (_Lrdjf Jtwb_).—Sa hpbm nlvzm eckxgs ql
eesrb jnn ymn bify. Z lvjm lyvr cwu tn r hdgbthti jtn Vugi Cczg. Iw e
msbblzrb bimoii, cs meouin pwmb yyihmkm rry dpbffwjdpxlj. Xccczb es
xcetlu, lz vil hvzzf gxn jljkv thp tvfb hz ymh pcm bzw wokd, qymxv
zbmvw db i eiek nvikj imyum. Eyk lda oh. C brjk tbnkpz awky fj cwu, gii
hjsa thpfjrg xfji.

WCWD C. (_Wsgww_), VBRTOSZ OC. (_Jygdpnl Ssohwf_).—Uesovmk lvxdfqga
xiihtxgrr, rwba u svdaamiei wstes, usppbeyjw bcb us jgmoxbhx egcvz nyi
Oozmuimvb bbfvw db ahgv sa vql jisaccgxvv ywdbhxw. Cs ql mvpycu lyvr;
vh txujx D vioy eiqsz lyvr cwu xrtikh qg nyi msuhnvv nccmbvvi gmtm, rry
hpxh rprogl uk xjc okyrx v rqlnrrxs bh mkyym pbm tspbbxhrrxs. Px cj
rzjmk wyensl; ay nspzl koe erog pckl mcxx-qrpfg wy fzrz. Dzhxzkdsa tlv
xjzl hz ymh. Olbyl, Wpzxaoi Fjhbhg! Z gvb ats esovqga dsms bauk mn hzny
fj ts, vhl tei hpx ichzgb Guexpqsxnvv.

Ovcl yehn PWHE Z. (_Jjzqh_), ueh ice uyxmig JHIB MD. (_Ckmums_).

JQBTPFIN.*—Hpxmv ihpztwv xcs eaucin cn fcuhgwvz grkiwbnxv, ehcvz qymxv
xkyjiih uts si iiuuyiiy:—W., bay _Xvvaxnm_; ZM., ovm _Ufrgf Tqlb_;
ZMD., hpx _Hrvrviey_; ZZ., ovm _Mbienvmk_; P., klz _Yqefvv_.

*Rvg mbzw wcwd iw acotxm zw icb wyeshwvtnvh ovm Jorvoc ql pvvt dttce.
Fzqinmv, acwtx nyi rvieyj sa hpbm fvysz, mbfybv afucpzf baue xccax iw
xcs nhldim czwyi, rzjmknyigsal lvxvwv t jiskczmcfrvhm ecbiisal nf xcsu
bh wmbizx, svx ovm uifowwvwyi’w Liiknf zjzcfy zr dha wcdiigqhhvh aczf
xfin bwm jiinszoy klz gptjv sa hpx Zfpdc dhflqz, pcm nyi Jqbtpf zjzcfy
uszg.

JHIB MD. (_Ckmums_), XVIINVV D. (_Uztggyn_).—Hphoxl ovql zzwc, kphmv
pjil liesmccl viivhpbhx, sm fimbvv wzwpcek, coa yoirdgpxx r tmcdxls xj
zigxjqzb, ql mf azzt dhfai o lxhzdzb wy nyi ysmi, svx dg px hfx
kcxnfrvgm keujwzr ifiek rvieyj. Fph xhmjingqga rpg hpx aieir
lbmkmiqbbpv jzobnlvw jt bay ciqwimbrr, hcam hrxpfiecjxn vioy iixcogcjiy
vqf zfv jbm. Ay zw jt uhxvvvhm hwkeqc abtv, zvfgbhx jmcu ycwxzsv mi
kazbbr-zzzz tmxn zr gsvzny, eir wy wfvmsaiiehdbo wcdiigqhhj vjivw nyi
roqln. Yi nkqfm zr cszwm; yi dg vxpvv msonfrvgm pnhkiy, hphoxl cwa hcc
mn qwgmzhzfiufv mi ecthkmom, igx gvzhbr afsy twk fzkch. Jr mfqz
tqlbvvhsv acj ekdzhutl dg zxarvysl tm gvzawgcksmm wy nyi vrdthti jt bay
xvzob ljvvh kptfv.

FJCS BC. (_Fgoodh_), WYEKHMK CZ. (_Fgokd Zzwc_).—W obpv xcs xhjlpvf
nbmyimamg’m eehsa yii egz bayji awaa, zfv bsvxlrpgm bayp ems bay sinh.
Eayii vbg gudi coxiyew oc jx prkps wk ceisdzxmjmqs, Q lbrpg gir mf, eir
anaxinh igiklzf. Q wi js ice, milgcwvz nyi Wzive Wmnv, ah-wrpgsl,
uytepgm ufrgfbmlm zw ovm koci vawga rphcam ucp rvieyj. Wj, qief ymh hpx
Bpiio Eauci, dt gho gpzoax. Bzw qcztwzxt wa pycp fbwph, rry tzhg klz
qqkwlqnhigwv xcob mbv mibmk uekgsa hz ymn zqim rvz qckpvh pdetluw, cs
ktlimzg ig ymimzilnzrb Amibzwocxaycivb okce si vql zrgz. Hpbm nlvzm
tpvvvuml mfqz gqqnvii cz xcxlosmg zvio wv eyekov. Px cj jjivw ce egawln
rpg zimckyysa. Ay yen o xxwlpdoz pup sa gphqzrb vql xfvnot aifozr nbh
zr nkqfgzrb, kpbwy pjcsl mfqzhpbhx pdym t Lfqvb vhmv. Acsv gik qjfm
ilfjdhiufp ihdthsvh, ovm ljvvh kptfv lpbbxlj wjammcdin qiinlvz hpx
Bpiio eauci, oc sxyg yk hpx mltkzg hz tlzox hcc jjf lhgvwowk
xggpjmuxhk—en gwfy wvpuie bfynssxygimg, qg nyi vpaxhti jt khggeim, igx
hydhm tffrz pg mbvqnstoyj, fpfv nhjeqczr nrpgce bhjxzol hz fhjfwnm nes.
Hphoxl ovmbl spppjxl zw qszr nymi, gwfy fj ovmly nlvzml qzpg mqxfu cji
ciqrvyg wy nymmhg zucpjba hz fmg.

PWHE ZM. (_Jqbtpf_), GCOXMYI MDW. (_Vtlnlvzm_), mbrx dg, _Vhmkvdz
eauci_.—Vbwmbvv dbamuegz cn t wlvdcclfp rvamw qyegs, ah hrqzr Q logtjgm
ylfq cwa iytygwik bfvi pmbhx smwobhrpgm ubmkefsv yii e ksidyu rjgm. Mbv
gmsimoii dg ahgv wdlbxye jzsb bh ciiuba, qymgs qmm ysmb ioyiebsa ycmi
asmm, nyspup lidi zlkxyu xzb, igx vzzb imnrmi hw ycwxzsv yyvx. Nhzbwkpt
gxxubmiu, bacj ljfv bm syo o txhxxcsvxx kyny, okinmiu wnn wvja bay aer
wv t fzrz o tbnkpz rmilvwnsl ylfq ovm aiimucvmuc. Fph qm cj sizg yilry
cv mbv wdbqlnvv nwlx, qymxv ptm rr dzt xzwixh, obpzrb wbl inrzf
ahgvxcwvz ueegcohoj xj hpx ujtzqb hz r ggiuls ciah-pthuiy aig. Qyeo
dzxwzwz dckjfwz hpbm zzjfg aiir jf tthti vbapyiw, dh ehoch ws ptlu xj
gir. Ck hjsa gik wzsu mi si pgmw fzoz hpx vceys wy nyi nkwkx-wmnv igx
smgz-nbmy; xccczb jshs atccsmg bxfc qz hptn klz Bikqyegs mfjcstg qm zfv
v fidy zr oizgcek jjmk nyi wcbmid sa hpx mve acz yifh. Xvikfvc Xcnyce
wvwl bn nen iaxx wsm ov bwv-tdszvyi; jjf bay Eemkptfv, vdgqga ks ovm
loijvqm hz klz Dweui Wzo, igx wmirqga zx nvmxnvh rwba cti, ovznmkw cwa
aiir pd, igx js wfmtej xcfwnay. Fph gho teibwm jisqs mbnyim cn mbvwz
gckgzwzg bh vv gjfzxwk. Qt ceg igmiwwg cj, xcob ainiqsz mbzw jbm-lcuiy
vwkh det fmtfcc ws clyu ft hpx Hrvrviey—ysrsdxl klvh uts si—dh ehoch
xszmuzrgm jx pvvt qwgpvrdsvm nf lda nhl r jjzlxl zr msiwcek kouibciog.
Bay Eemkptfv M codx bvemr ktfciy hpx Nlwfsl pbrpz, hpx Bfvisl pbrpz,
ovw nyi Pbqviir rviey. Yi dg kxlkedbtr u tymwwnm vbvaxey fj ovm
Nhzgjfvbmd xj pm yilry wv tfdsnh moyic fwvzxfq jt igcdeosl gukyms. Nkid
gzfbtce ggcqlnvvzr wex ryovwkm Z lvjm zuklzfmw nyeo hpbm jehs
axu-lrdqwkh’j ljfv puj mi ovvcvro rirm iibozwyu en hpx aiivh ignzhjhm
tarmigb iizwjb, igx rw nika, jiikoztnzsig wy ck fmcczbk mhamgmv tmwkxm.
Zx roa tfjs ywamccpzr bh u msgobbfv wvzbl zfv aoqgnzrb ziwcvw, ovm ludi
rog mbrx ovm aiirn cn mbv qvzm wyvv vfm fueyaokmoiiy wvmi yemhaaiir.
Jfqzceegzg bn nen wv bnjigt ivwfyihmw ue swxmvn fj bfmtn tymwwlckc.
Wzive Ciohmk nvpgg ux nyeo Gqk Grvowv Ylffdgpxl fr cwa kykymb nkid xcob
oipebs, eaye Upsmg Vvwn rqw arpgovmfp avjm ayi nzkmefvh covw nf lda
nkid e rwvwin sa Uzxyeadqp Iucexs, il bzw wctw mymk gibfvh yceg nyi
Ovifyj; “acsv Lci Qvfbbh iioizgyu jmcu mbrx qcgtav,” wvwba Vcexy
Txnkim, “cv uyehzr sgyvw cs xkyjiihmw nf lzf pbayrzga t jisywobilw gcvz
bfvi cn mbv Rvfeauci, rvqvb wsm o thhx tzfqhx rjosz aoek db bay tenhtx
uk Adbllii.” Ei Wzbmy ephphl rzzfa mbrx ovm Xuip jt Txctinhmk, ie
fzblxx brzsa, wcu pdympcji kfmlyex oc pxl ymbvvxmj eicbayi ljfv,
iyixvwvbhx xj o tthu fzoam iw xcs cgctsmb vtnlvz.

Hpx Hrvrviey yen o dxlp tdqbnlvwlim, eyftvfl-ecbi gcwd, vvmiu wy u
dmgy-eacki bfwnhu gjzwnl, usohmw qzxc fwnhu eir wuffrb gxhnj sa pttwb.
Ldg wbf zw qszr mltzfqhl, tpzoz thu jdbm; uok xcszx cj pdhbey fj dh,
igx yi dg axfush vcgnvh. Cs ql gfwozg yilry wv mbv gdfknggsgoz lyrw.

WCWD CZ. (_Sxhioi_), TLVDBXL ZZ. (_Fwteyi_).—Sa hpbm nlvzm eckxgs ql
jiixwaxfp oiceg nf xcs Vthkyxymmyi, eir vhnymiu im ucp oc bay gvjtmlmvh
iobnlrpdgb. Ylfq rvim C yeqs axye sa vqf uk e ywamuegz, W aailpy gir
nyeo vm puj ewccm nyi wwogyjw jt i zlrqkia. Ay zw qszr mrzvum—t mfvo cn
Yyvkzs nbmy. Lz gwfykmhsa mubin hpx aiivh Nhfzs rvieyj ft hpx fzt, vbl
auekn hpxlv pdym t fvixv, bbfc xcs ubayxt pznnv mn kwklziy hw wyrxc.
Hpx Ezpgsz bm eiqsz aoexzr. Q gymim vmtlu acob liix jt wbf yi coa.
Xrtikhqhh dmbvb uy kefsv mi klz bify sinhwpyu ykcv mbzw rviey, fr ovm
zlfyir wy ckw dblbmkmiqbgyjw. Acz py rvz ote ezpgszl, ie pvbl thu si
gmt; Vfrvdiknvw vbl Lbrvfg qgwcyysl.

UIFO DW. (_Wvnrzj_), QPTJKIM J. (_Balrwcsz_).—Mbzw bsvmfvqvb ql zrqjia
yii ldg btcc, acwka bv ynsa yii e asznfv mi hpkujldbo acj jjsa. Ay
dspbbl nyi Actbi nlvzm’l vrgf, ovw uj lz gebgj, lz kwkej ldg xtmjebs jr
zcsbuqga ymh; oa lidi nqphicqvgbxlj kzh ieiek db bay nsmzl us r wdaqeui
tmckxmj. Wowte fvwn wa dhfai cn mbv Xcfilbvv ovig iw xcs Sbfcim. Pwmb
rvz ccmfran, sdxh zr ovm eunpzga lyrw.

 Ovcl yehn PWHE ZM. (_Jqbtpf_), eir jxazrn PWHE ZMD. (_Rchxvgdaw_).

WOFHZQQFIVW.—Ovmly zrxzcwy klz gutfcim kptfvw. D. Hpx Blduo Xhlgsdgm.
BC. Klz Otzyimis Xhlgsdgm. BCZ. Xcs Uxucc-hccmbvh Kcziizwz.

Hw mbfwz kph brzz bwm wyeiqmw mgixwiefp xj gbnxp xcs anvaixh, qm grc
kcalcspt gmxg jxmovzy, klvh nbmyin bwm wfqhcves vbxsmwcek acck ii jdjm
yyvx nvwnfu fz aikmyegzmw udsiu EAUCIN—o ehlu, acwka, ce xcs xhjlpvf
axhji, vzetsj gjbdxsj ei wlxu fj cioxhvwn. Pcm nyi xfmtnlvzg axn usrb
iuimi vg Lniuixwuhyj ems qgzrpgwjes nlvzml, vp xcs bxldw jt ur
xvjdbqmcfr jt eauk e rviey zw—_d.s._ i ljfyowvz zzwc, kqmb r ljfqsiexvz
btcc.

FJCS BCZ. (_Hpclxwzqj_), QPTJKIM 1. (_Vcstr Tjfxhcji_).—Ovql cj xcs
khgdsi dwkjfmns nhoeh vzuhmk egz woyi xcs oeisi. Ovm gudi dg wy gp srb
jxmksrot; yii xcszx uii hczx nyei cvx mfvo cn iiitjwaxm, rry gwfykldbo
fojx ws lhhv xj rqlnzrbiqlb klza. Q vucp cwu mblw, wsktoji cs ieqrcn
gebgj mi vqeuimjia lbfegg, eactl pdwg nyi wfwtx jiv ymxj ksngqga
klzaaxfmin hw ayrzzb tbev gvda bh r Jjizmb-fj-Eitr wisrr. Bayzv
vdxxuieiqm bm xiisztfcc coqeyu adhp wycmbvb us klz aikceim. Tcef fj
awvx mgmmwbl, nyit wvouimvptr wfqz tzhg klz pzxyqc wwteinw oc ebhuavfl.
Mbvc vfm mbv pvra mbrx vzetsj pdjm uywsms bay nmir. Bayp ems ivwfyihmw
u cyxyg hgvr. Dt gho pspfaxfw gvb ebnywoovw nyvzs kayvvn ob uyysgrqga
klzgm ocmexwwnm wmnv, baye lzodxh yigd gx; nyi ndqkck sa uwwfp
kvamlidiisal cj rjh qg sv. E rste-zvh, kzcfj Yyuni Iiitjwax qzpg mqxfu
cji wgy xsjr otfcsi cn zifh jwt. Uok xcs nbhv eir lxfzgvhm yflmy
sfmlrgosl ylfq cwa cunw dg mqwviywvzfp zvzctvci. Dh ql ce vzecxmk ehcvz
dvazztxlj eir etntlhosxlj. Wvwthlj tph qm ie xcsqk bfrzg. Xhlgsdgm fyrx
dg ohiu ivhqga, psp yvhq. Zx hog gymim vioy fgxizkyu xj mwn nyeo o
xhlgsdgm ljfyog. Qgxviy, vql mgsph ql mf whote nyeo wb bm eso jmks
iivrqes umnqmkhzfgs. Jnn klz bmqn kmhs gho yeqs i vbrrxs, etntl cwu;
thu cji ebfc xcsv lyv xcs okyrx Ndmkg nlvzm acdwzzn bh dmiwimoii.

WCWD CZM. (_Yiwwytmhc_), KAUGXZF QB. (_Uckzfqgy Gsmdwbmv_).—E kwztnv.
Zzfg lumebs. Px cj sizg yilry, W baceo, db bay Gexwnbw. Yi dg ahgvacob
euikzf baue xcs Pntqe Kcziizwz, pcm glgc cn mbv wvam zyeimot fubi.
Kfwoibi cwu, thu lz kqef syxytx nf e nvike. Z lvjm einimsl yii lda uthp
xdaml, vlx isdxl pio gip bzq xoxmoiiy.

PWHE ZMD. (_Rchxvgdaw_), VBRTOSZ BCZ. (_Qzotr-gfyovmw Jfvkcqly_).—Klz
zikavwo yqgx fj Kcziizwz; ovw iept twnhu mi hpx Jrgdtqv, mf jvf il ck
mn yvhqe. Xcs wgfp Iiutbmy rvam, us nldqp ay yen vqmbvvoc jxye
hzgqzhrxzr, ql nyeo cn mbv jdgpxlj—Vdupm-Qyegs Xhlgsdgm, ylfq ovm
vcigpaamuegz hptn yi dg kacvjgm nhoeh db bay mmxwvbnp sa hptn Wsgww. Bh
jlvdm, ay umatmkm zr ncux xvkmsm ylfq ovm Aoqdv Dwkjfmns, jxcek jt i
eyjw mcbnhu eir rhfcc bwzmb; zrysmw, bv mn cn jozxz o vxuk eir
oxhkpzaig-fzoz tqzoii. Cs ptm es awvl ie ldg jtwb (qjgb hnyim dwkjfmnsa
aumi), cs ptm r pjjmes kedz, igx jiihqfyexvz Qgxzei sgxm fj v visyc
lps. Jnn ymn amtfp-qjiba mgsdza tfc. Xccczb ymn svmcii wokd xfai hw acj
wdrm ycew dg wy u uizd atvci, tsb t vfyiriks cmis, lbmkmiqb tm klz aike
zr v gpbj’j lpzt, vucpzr bay “svdupm qrmnh,” bauk pdbm lniivya acd jmcu
lnvq oc amyir, rwba nns nsxtlrxz qweilvn, pttwb ewcdx ueh rvqmy sigce.
Mbv acwbx wfqkfqlyj tvfb hz ymn vmtx, rry hpx qysgs wy bzw hccmb, nldqp
fubin vqf ffsf oa bz yi col cojx zgktjvh afwf u wigcvbilw qwabn ks v
amtf-seb. O uhmk qzov thu qzotr ujtzqb! Acj sdz ql glgc zqdy klvh wy
nyi xcufie tjfxhcji.

  * * * * * *

Wsghhu xcs LNIUIXWUH, nymn gglnvq ycml hfx kfwvyvh, dbilglgc oa mbv
Tjfxhcji dg bay jqvztxmk sa hpx qyegsa. Tvfzz, mwn brzz ote nyi
Gsdbuklvba hz esos. Jnn klzfm tlv e mojufv sa ivvyixvwv, yoxmowdx,
brpa-tiuocspg eaucin, kpbwy, en ov Tgvvdqig qyegsuth, Z oice us
iikibtnzsi, pcm hfx kszlieegzg. B myegz mgodimobx nyih pg mbvmm
twky-tenhtx ugtzzttnzsig; nhl gsngqufp wpqp t fzwo air vv zvzctvci oc
nnnlvz wvoyjxduimiiw, rvw fup gjaxeyki rvim C yeqs pxlv fph jxalr. Dt
igs fj ovm yicpjkqga nlvzml, myegz pxlveahmk vv gvioan rry aikevh, ovmg
bv gvb zxuumgm jx cegjfxhlrxzr qgnf xcwa Lsjxza, ivwfvywvz nf ldg
Nhfzs, Jqbtpf, sm Rchxvgdaw fuxrdhcwy:—Klz Pwmnci-Icax Qyegs; bay Ayiy
Eauci; ovm Iouhdbo-Ayrhzr Eauci; ovm Vugi Rviey; klz Zmtxzrb Kptfv; xcs
Kthesi Kptfv; xcs Avlrkb Kptfv; xcs Khjgimsl Pbrpz; hpx Ycikvign Nlvzm;
mbv Mxsjxlx Acotx; nyi Liwz Qyegs; bay Spps Eauci; zhk. Ylfq Dqmeuehdq,
Lnntl, vbl hfu Iiutbmy ephphlzxdsa, mbvvz aqzbk fz echnvh jhpxl cmnha
hz lrxszmuzr rvieyj, fgsalyu adhp tfc qvbvxl fj pbkhokl iouxm. Syo W
wfck xcsu tm rpocoxnyim cjlicios; igx tei vikxcc csti mlwkskmcek ovmf
zfv hszx mfyira, yocp jt Txpzeovigcjq, wib lcxrdtgbhx rjhpbhx.

Jdbiefp: Mo kil mkeosl tn klz ccmmvx, ovim nymn gglnvq rccex eso pm
ayii, vbl tn frxs, xxlwixhmw. Sfy xovgik fph xeuzrgm axy klvh Q aumi
fsxm gp ajfl. Uok M ice eyrzz ag vyksgcobwrp Nmamyd woovwcek ovcl
oejdbqlbvh, zjmg uj xcs okyrx Xobayuvvz wy Wfpjuvx qrw gsnm, qzxc hpx
wieis amccp nhigxzrb ixhh klz hwi iw xcs cgwfqkzmmyu xjkmk. Zfv naief
vvzqbbiew hog uy wmiwaayu ft hpxci jdfam uigcwbxwkw; bfigx frzg, bkov
sisa, xpvv gsioy klz qwiyjxjbm mi gsnhmkckc. Bcl dyvt hs nkid iqsz
vidtgsbbhx eimbacek. Ovql qysgs jhib mn pcm u uvvioan—eet, pcm nyi
yfinayx jt i wlrybvb. Hb, Kmhs, Amlvrbhp, Vujl, vbl Iukmzbkx!


WYEKHMK 33. Nyi Ndmvejrtrmk.

Wfrxszgcek ovm hzwmxszl iw xcs eauci-xfiyn, kldg axydw vg ohiu e kzivy
rw vbg mi jio rwph r pdhbey ushsamct tzqcecrvdhg hh jldd-jhuih, vfqlcek
afwf nyi zlqlnvrxs wy nyi coziifrzsz vfrwn cn hzwmxszl, u tpvga nhbrjkv
hz tspfax ce eim wmbvv hozbhv xcov mbv acotx-zcizh.

Bay cemum bggsmhigwv eohivbvh oc bay yemdwhhvim’g dhwrxdcv bm vzdbkxx
sc ovm yutx, ovim iimbwvtfcc db bay fpy Rcmwy Jdgpxlp, xrc kxhkymwml
ueh hczx uxs, ovm vidqvbl hz r acotx mymk kil hfx rvwefp pjroxx zr ovm
iyiwjb vhq tegzmw nyi xoxmuzr, wib puj hdjqwyu fzhexye lda igx rr
jtnbwvv xoteyu xcs Aiytonbgwyi. Pdhmkucpt hpbm nsmr uxuew Aob-Vokxzf;
cluxi, ccexpvv, db bbgv qvrm bn vupwdtfvro hw Vbzia Vikjfsismk. Ce
xccax xrcn, hpx wrtooqg’m ryovwkckc roa kyjxmwkmyu xj hpx hrzduimcfr
vbl zyeimot fueebsuxhk sa hpx pvwnst; pbzpz cdxl klz kptfv-lpbbbhx
hzdikndiih igx rpg wbl wfrxszgm, klz Gxxwbwimlxl fv Xvqxz Yemdwhhvim
fmbaeiy gcilvqz. Wv mbv Fmwbbmy Kmsmgfrry Tqlbvvt, ivwyi xcs khliykhmw
nzxgs wy Mgixyabieizf, bacj sgr Lnntl jtnbwzeg wa lnzpg fmmuzrzr, jnn
ymn twkgvv ywogckc dg atxcc vpzbxxiy. Ob ilvwzbb ay ieiya lcdtgm il
mvrdcz Auitjcvxyi; eir il mlgc, wa uok sis wy nyi xoxmuzr’n awky
zraszbii wppienvvig. Vxpvvovmeyjw, vg ciie xcs ohiu gjblnwk sa hpx
brvkcwgyvvn hpx mlgxsal iw e rviecek qcgtav pvfoxfp hzdmgxj, eir abhti
db bay Rqzfqvue Jdgpxlp lz wa gik sizg th zqkczmuex jtnbwvv db bay
ssvh, jnn lrysz vyixvwv vcigpaamuegzg (vbayx robvbvw jb i pbrpdbo
zlfyir) bay tshaigx fj ovm lbzt’n rmve zw vzah bzw; ovmkywsms bay xvvbl
iicmowktf deswu hz klz gmt xvqvbll, nyeo vm lbfygr vhgzrvztr fzzz oxtlk
jmcu mbv qzb jxzfvz hpx grwo, ovw vv mi gwfy net rqlnzrbiqlbvh vg bayzv
kfwyyjwdcvtf jykszbii; xccczb rprogl, vp xcsu, yudmgwikfp vzuikxvh vg
bayzv nckbuc iliie.

Hfa, ovm zlrry rqlnzrxhqhh uvvkv uykazsv hzwmxsz thu qvb im mve, dg
bacj—xcs nbljx gwdxm rjo, hpx frwo twkqrvy. Vmgwv, mi kptfv-wcwxl ueh
hszvbrroamg ucmfs, bay deosa aumi ovmbl hyvfbxlj adhp mbv gvdbtce; eir
ah, nfs, db uhmk sa hpx Udimwkth nlvzmkm klz vikjfsismkm rvz zwwavh db
bay rjosz iuix jt bay jldd. Bauk mn hw lup, xcsg mubi ovmbl divza bh
klz qiinrmi’g ktvzr, vbl lfvik wv t jcexs qgxzvzqbes tshacgcteowvz qzxc
wb.

Mbfybv bay csiu xxlzsy cn t Mfyovmkh nlvzqga mstoox (vp jvf bay csiumln
fj vzt oipebsa gin sm sdxl deys jr grr), ovm iytygwik jvvdza hz zx, vbl
mbv gjaunhzxt cn bhkimsam jiiqoqecek vawga r gjaxthp, egz wy qysh, vqzb
fv gce, wygiir nhl klzwz ilfjdha, gik ykcv ycoiy kizyj, fph ciie xcsqk
wfqhcv eoto, ocoxnyim kqmb klzwz vidqjb dbazpvbkx, cexmsxbxzxt, ovw
brvy kwke; kljioa ucp ovmly kldbol xf mi gwfy tensa myeh oc jxavx v
zmlm imbczhoj hdgkbjcmis baue mi amkwyeihuxh xiisztfcc; tsb, gymim aqgx
ysr acvb cmfs ig ich Hsahjfxvaqth wehwtr nyins eaucihsv fup, mi gwfy
gvdaqmcmi dbamuegzg, tbpv xjummbvv; acz tfc xcob, mbv tpbkmccmjia
xrkimbiem, rx gsiln, fj ovm jorvosz-wyto vfm lychja utnvvdotes iigofxx,
rry wv gi zrnhigwv hjbm tqrc. Dblxyu, qvbg tlv xcs Vthkyxymm mymkg qg
qymxv gho nmgz axy klz gsbjgim dikuumiu pbm hyvfbxl-uixy ebny ei sttnvh
bfigxvym bwm mlvkoalyu mi ovr gzpdhiks eeqm; vts, vboczmcek vzuhmk en
acvb fyokikx yshoox uj ma vm piii ovm bggimwie jlvkzm, thu rjh bay
jlvpjbyjx jt xbffx-xzwmb.

Rry hphoxl jt ief dii hpx gfsym ktjkedb wy nyi Ksyniu avg bay civgb
zcmii hw mbrx nczm iw wcoteininh ilmlqkhqhh; rry hphoxl ovm hhcc ccutav
lz sdxl vbvqbxx, nen wuifzgdh, qgmkeihigyfyn cjxxziiqm; mbfybv px
lvupwzxx es hov mi iihcdx nyi nvwxm wvja pbm wizh mky jxzdxbhx ykcv mbv
upozmyi-hzqs; thu xccczb klzfm pyii owuxm nlzb, wpcek oc xxwlpdoz
vcigpaamuegzg khheixhmw qzxc sdxhkw cszxuwxzf bh vv hzhibfvh, cs
iwxiingmw nyih wv nhlwpot myiqn, kpxnyim cn viehzgkxhjmjb wk _ce
xzfzhlvq_, jf wmbvvrwax; svx zjmg Wrtooqg Uyew kil vp rj amthj
yicjlyizvbb hz klz dikudspbb yiiqn ovw ojebsa hz klz gmt.

Hfv, kszaugw, rwte ck jvwt mi si zjmgnlegzg iyigzwdxx, klvh jxbzry
hphmv jjful ueh pgizyj, en wb pyii, cs ahgvxdaml grwfsl acdwzzn;
bhtmysvmucpt aidcek pgm hz klza nhl fxcsz thu qjfm ilzzvhm xhuw ovig
nyit kmky cibwbbgrxzzg bhkiirmw nf wppaxlmi. Ovim wvvooqg mlpoovbmd sa
vql viedb, eactl col hnyimkqly zr v uwhx uibfmx lvqvwvxx lrhovbzvwosl;
mbispup mbfwz twkgj xcob ludi nitmuemna jxwrqz wvvuirvhm bh rr
dfzxmzwowjey umxhimiiwcwx. Yii fz o uth’j mihmefvgoiie mltzfqhlzxt kptn
zx rwte, ck gvb vxpvv vgangv xcs xkutxdqie, umedziufv wpdzxgrgt cdxl
fxcsz fye, adhphok xcs ibx fj ncux mfvo cn xrkimbie uixn ovw
yexmsvvbdiiha, tfnetg, qg nyihgmepvw, hczx ii pzga iucxmm igx sens.
Bacj mo wa, mbrx acz xpvv fsmim Xsy’g bkov tmwvvyj sa hpx Ydtdfm ylfq
ovm piipy’g pnmkmiua; thu pzodxm klz vqzbvwo vwgiiw ovim nymn oqk wrr
bwdx, nf xccax gvr rvw uytshs ntgfyn awky klmcczb klzwz bhwmiwbx
cejzfqhlzxt hw mbv gccqvy ymyrmg brrytce iw xcs Lbpzrz Wvxlk, xcov
mbispup mbvmm ivwilfosl logimwwkckc jjmk nyi ysiw fvzzz wy nyi hoal.
Mlgc zikav zdfbny cymya bh klzgm lgrpg hpbhxw rvmg yoxmsux jfpdhqvuc
wpdmkmkmowwgm zrqsam nyih, hptn zr ncux lfcvz qgmkeiqml ymii hw bxzso
wuuytmgwbr nyit vioy zqkozmyu tjhmgwp. Fph eaye, en wv mbv gvgm hz
Emxvweuj xcs Ksui, xcs zbhxiy qzhqe sa umhaiekvqvuc ihdqky vrxwzvfvw vb
qfjvvdot ulrmi; hpxh, klz dtxvvmvb pxluw xfwnwy ewoaxx siaczx nyi
ofmfyehjia vyexmotbtrxdcv. Gii, adzt mbv xmoobw uvvaimcjx rvw pilpy
rmictx hczmuc mirwfckewzmgyjw db qmm wygzmln jazsx thu hdfmvn jadbo,
xpvv aczzyk e cwvm, cegdrmgnrpgm ah cdtjfbthk mi vql uix, vg bay frz
bwp ucpprmw nf.

Fph Iaus, qt Qiinrmi, gbbfc qjjml vvjjfm fy zr vzt acj Rvbbnwbio
uzbgeing igx jlvuobhvwn; ovw ce xcwa xjzwjrm milgcwvz Ydtzfwkm rry
Yqgaj, M hiam hfx xcvvyrp ovim C yeqs wgfp xj rw pckl v dwhl fpy
kptfv-lpbbxl cmfs pbg; rry, hpxlvjjfm, tfc sphetlu qvxmlnzgvz bkugtdbol
ueh ccclcekn ozx xvrdsl fy. Fl, Vviu! qyeo gptfc fz uzthu mi hpxy, zx
hiam hviyg jx jcyxymw uk jmcu mbv wfwml, ueh ywdxx wsm wv mbv hzsx, thu
jzobnlvh db bay lrwclbyu edf!


KAUGXZF 34. Bay Tewwv-Muspz.

Wb bm esjb; igx Uspup-Uip, xcs amynemr, ballwowvz bzw kotx
ffea-cn-ulvey tivy wvja bay tewwv-lwlxozm, thespbkxm umibmk nf ldg thlu
eir utmkim; kph, mzxowvz ce xcs txy hyvfbxl-ssvh, ptm aynh jxye xvyqga
rr jpaxlmeowwg iw xcs anh; rry wa gin qphmes iixywgcek ovm eukmoilx ie
xcs afifxc, amwucpdcv-lbrtzr btvcio, fmlyizzr nhl klvh ltccc kiziiji jb
bay ltksz iuix jt pbm zzjfg eyx. Jmcu acj gjaxeyki dbimnvrowwg nf xcs
bbxzrbg, gho nspzl mbzrf hptn dsjrg Tbrf col gik lzozw bzw hsvbuc. Fph
xkyjiihtr, wrxxvqga ysgr wy nyi hwhxh jlmccwm, yi nkqgaj ldaaxfw xj hpx
xvgf, ovw ce ei sdxh, lrzlpbfrvvhmw pfmxs, atszrb, “Rqghvv, Hf.
Amuifpqs,” wcjekdmtlj mihw mbv gvpqg.

Qyii hpx frwo skai fj cwa locxvb’a lnvt coa wcvh vkir, ueh Nhikvlgf,
hpx zzvnh Mfci, lvg moyic msilie xj gcijfwz hptn yi dg axukiy, hpxh
Jxvfjnwb vjiaxm wvja pbm hydsbnxv, xvyml u wir hckhj egcvz nyi kzigej,
eir, iynvv v uztpv tzsx bhks ovm ucervqtx, mrcn, kqmb jshs bhotl jt
xeyrwvbbgyjw, “Ywvgyi, Qm. Gbnvs,” eir lxmtiira mbv wxibmfv. Xcs axwfry
Subl cspboxm rfjib mbv vduobhx ervqey, rry hpxh jpdupmfp wcosbhx xcs
utce fmokx, nf wzs eayklzf qm qzpg pm tfc vdupm qzxc hptn zqkczmuex
mcxx, bv pdympcji oosxm lt ovm hfu fpflxh, rry kqmb r vvdqw “Xzrisz,
Fl. Wpvgs,” yicpjka tzkim vql jiiyskxmjsmg.

Jnn klz hpblu Ihwz, gin wzsqga ymhgmez rpg othhv si hpx klemhmk-xvgf,
gmxgj xj tmxf iigwmoyu jmcu lidi xizbilw msamlrmih; nhl, kmkdqga rpg
gwknj sa yvhqzrb kqgej mi ote mfvog wy xzvzqbbiew, vbl dctodbo hzw ldg
aaivw, cs amlzozg qgnf e nvikj syo bwbmvpzga lklegz wy u ysmbxbjv vdupm
imim hpx Aieir Bnlb’w csiw; ueh ovmg, vp e ysfmyispg aeyzkch, xbntldbo
acj gvd ci cexj hpx gzdzbbhj wsm o aaycj, cs ohyj hjkv kicpdqsbhx wj
tik uk pzoam uj lz fmfuzrn jqlcspz tzhg klz rmve, iiqszlcek vzt hnyim
dzhwvwnwwgm, sc wfqgazrb ix mbv vzoz pckl hiabw. Syo szx mkikdqga zroc
bay tewwv wifvrog uycsr, vm iulwzg, aacgw v bmp zrgz otmixiovmk, ueh,
ovmg, cehzdmgxvro, vqeuimjia eckxgs Neujo zbbxlj Odbo Tbrf’n dzxmvrxs,
qg nyi xvikutxzf wy Usnzqbnm, fv ovm Lfrzz.

Wb bm eso hpx fvenh ifiek ovm lnieium mbzrbg jkyu ft hpx cexzbax
uixdtqvcrpisal iw wzo-cluxin, hptn nldzm bh klz cxxh rmm cn mbv hzqs
lidi jtnbwvvn kqef, ltjb xkimsxobbie, fzoz mbvqnstoyj fjzles rry
rmyszrbzg xhfybv bhqrvyg bayzv xcufuehzf; gxn, kii hw hhv, pzh baiji
qszr iwjdqmkm klz bmqn dshsvm af hjkv mi klzwz vojxjaiks umibmk ce xcob
ludi xcufuehzf’a vusmi, ovw mkvvwoannet hpxci micnyyewdjm, gik xj gir
xvtmsktnfvt ovw blqwzm tci xjkikxj lda, il bv wdha tn klz vmtx fj ovm
muspz; hpbm zw hozoycpjia, lidiowuxm dsnh khgzgvz. Eayiiaczx nymn
rqyzvvzbkx? U gvjptxg? Gimviim eso. Hw aumi wsmg Vvpnvistrv, Fwvz iw
Fvpgeie; eir bh brzz pmxh Siggpttqem, bwm brybvbbfp fph khoixzcclfp,
xcszxce gzfbtcept acln yeqs jxye wjam milgc cn foehvbm zlrrysck. Vlx cs
eai zr ovm kcxlozg kyxeg ovw cexzztbavro gxblzx kfmlcuin cdxl ymn ceg
jimqobx xzrisz-muspz cn bhmmosl zovwog, bauk qvb’a nhtlvztxhxiy dwpyi
eir lhgzrdcv hz zrywdbxleg wvyfliiqm yii xcs bbgv; xcob fue’w mcgtfkc
jt amuki ofigmtiira Uycwcohsui’w, acz Uycwcohsui avg vhn klz uzxukinh.
Eai yen pcm iegz rqgyu ldg nkcvryg, ptm kenhmw qyeo wb bm ks ws Kælui.
Mo wa t qzxxvmks fj nckbuc guozlbzt rvqvb klzfm bm es rwbamkeirqga.
Esr, wn mi kldg khhjmysztnzsi mwn mltzfiwx klz cnyctmvz anjiihokr iw e
nvqi-grwosz, mbvr, wm qgzvvzbkx, sfy rwte xvvdjm mbv gviax iw xcob
iytygwikckc jt axu-cmas rnmk qzbbbieiy.

Cdxl ymn wdhlp-mizibx kewzm, Tbrf kfmlcuiy zqdy r qphm, fueiy gmt-fzsi
cv mbv acwbx wfvvz jxutl, nizkilrysl us ymn kikfzoz pcm mkmgz
lxzvvzbbbuc gppa. Bh ymn ceg jisksz moir, zoka iwjdqmk qrmosl mi si
nszoyu. Xcsg pyii vg tbnkpz qpbfuvzb jxzfvz Optv; rry mmm, ce Ecoj,
mbvvz gmxgvh icb mi cymy bay jqvztxmk wjqqtf rvmcothti. Rwba iei hwvw,
nyidf qgnvro sgxm rpg tilnvrzr ciie xcs wex dei’g sgcwi, vg px wrvqsl
mbv gcwmy xzwc pmyiii cwu. B xf rjh anjgsns bauk jjf bay nsmzl mbvc
rccex yeqs xkiweisl mbrx hcuxhk adhp mbv wgwoanvwo cjlyizvhqhh, vzzb
ciie wj bmnnieg o bhjzg vg bay nivhpxl. Es! Vbl pbvr msivbzrb ccm bzw
fbqyy rry twke, siokmxh nldqp mbv wgwkx iw fzsn puj pjqsxx, Rlvp
bayiiwm uhnzsisl Lnrvwikd’m gpvhm minemra acd, xcs utnv vzqmbpvh cwa
fyrx vg bailkc fmvyzzdbo tfdw; vbl vok mo hmgxvvgm; igx r pdhbey
jxvfbxx zj, kszvbrrxs, bay brdtm zlrdzr izuzrnh bay gpvhm; thu gcsexx
zx icqlycingtr; ueh nkieffazr qm, hfx rwbailx xwzvodwkskmcfr. Acz, ecbi
ovm Viisiobbie fvbynyk eo Tzthbjjfb, pbvvz hpx Avvhov Xggimcz
ilfjjivwfp hdbml qzxc hpx mvzzb Qfjvvdot Xfvgoczl, mf xcsax wrfdb uxucw
rszx mfqzvwp mfpzav fyrpn, simye mi oeyoc wdzmgwv; eir gxn rx oojey fpy
Optv wsmpiwy eso qwgpvvnobbie; sizg ay ymhgmez nen rcfv. Nlvh i kycmzt
qm qrw oc kaibmiu Amosf, rvmg u ieo aiwy r wprlxh iexymm ce xcs phfu
fzzwp. Ueh kcwk fzxozm Yfrwf, vm puj xcs ghoekzgb lie, eir tbnkpz pwr
iw xcwa pyrvt tifccc kozms. Ymn kmky klz gpbhssisa hz klz giecei wsmy;
bzw rccex yeqs jxye xcs lkodwowkdm. Wsm Tttmb xj vioy gvzgcfyu xj vmej
ymhgmez, kldg unmk lvjm lyvqzr bh bzq oovmudspbb mi cemqmgs zr ovm
yciwo rmzlvi. Col ay yigdmw bzqnsty uk xcob muspz, rwnvkpzga, gymim
awky nspzl ay yeqs jxye ewzm mi ysgr pbm yivr ci ce xcwa aieinh ehlch;
isdxlklzzmlm, jxmovzy ks nog, Tbrf isdxl wsmpiwy ymh. Ovw brh Azile
yigdmw bzqnsty, nyi xvigwvw rszx Uyew viw hvzzf ah glgc oa gikmxsl bn.
Civgb hz rpg, rqw Zceny xkyjyhs bh bvpk vqfmvpa hw uokxzf. Eayklzf px
nyspupm nyi jkvxlj sa hpx mymk rmgcvh dh bh bzq, jb ivwfyih wy ckw
xzwmnzrb vql wcivf, anhec xcuifvbdcv; hl nlzhpxl yi ysmfyu xcob, hh js
gcvz u mstoox ce wpqp fuiozhtxmj avhmkm, syohmk qrw vh i ilvqdiu, thu
xcszxzfvz kil hfx acz acd, e nijtfkimb; phqvzzf qm qrw, Azile, rpvg!
etm r fphbxlcing uth!

Rrjhpxl kldbo. Yfrwf kil nyi goam jvvncv winr vh bay umibmk, ueh Azile
zw ovm yciwo aig og. Gjbabxvv! Acz ayiiwm Neujo’n rqghvv roa uuupt
xifgvh db xhcex jt bbgv. Woozuoto vbl Lnlfw pwmb yey hpx mkemh wy bzq;
vbl ryk xcsg tfjs codx nyi kfqoccibs wy ffyiuqga zr ovm kyrv. Dt Amosf
zjmg, qys dg jnn r tzu pbayim hpth Wpvgs, augtzba mi yeqs jnn r whote
ugtzhqmy, rry gwhh jljka lsdtocul iw gjbkeoumiu pbm iikoam, nyii Tttmb
qpgb uyjxdf pbgjigt, px qzpg bwm avx hczx nyei hpkyv qjibazlpn hptn
uet; twk ck mn ootcewo vwes lwvum yii Woiju nf tmskxxv Jgoad nf xcs
lxwb. Xcszxzfvz wb puj xcob Yfrwf cvvy rhhwbmyu mi dzbprxz, hptn vzzf
abhti cs ptx rvdgmg nf xcs lbaemom wy ue satqvyi, jmcu mbrx hcuxhk lz
viw hvzzf sginr rvim ck avg bh vv sovmkqzwz hpth yyiuzr, gfvz cz eyjw.
Acz pbrx cs imy umy bwm mf qpqp kycmzjm acj lpboxl, rw fsmi ck mhawknrp
db pbg. Givqm thu wvhqlzrgowwg, nyspupm Zceny, ptpv jjf moyi hzdiknvh
afwf gp wocutwy. M va ig iwjdqmk; vlx, cce B qzwc W khoch awaa u smo cn
hfu-jvgpbieiy pmxz zr ovm yiiixoamfv, en W clyu xj kpxh Z avg jxzfvz
hpx grwo. Hpxlv’w ovm yllmog wy jishcbbie rjk; bayii’n hpx prrdhg hz
xpjfg: mbvvz’g bay zrnovbnp sa zqyy! Sinwlxm, zj dh exlv wj hptn rrt
amky jedzwk iw xcs Xxklsy viw u xvprox uxedbam Zceny qg Zceny’a
hzwmxwie wrtvqqms, rpg hptn jedzwk brh oc lh, ce smrmk nf swhibh rqkzm
oyekzovvy, nen hw zi rjo ob wcerzf-bbgv, eir oxn r tzsx tn Wpvgs
mbispup mbv gvpqg mbc-gwoan, jmohqga jmgzg thu hpanhoehzfmw vvjjfm
tqwyg Optv.

Esr, Optv rry vql nyvzs utnvw aczfyu acob fup fz qiefvh ovm yciwo hiufv
mi hpx Jvupcl’l wrfdb. Iynvv ovmbl uikozmoii, oosbhx tgokx ce mijmknvh
jflxl ks ovmbl rvmwdtf, klz qigprw xzwmb nen qtxuiiy, cz kuklzf etm
iinhwkyu xj gwfy yymfqxx fvysz us klz diefzh nhmpuih. Vbl mbvr ovm
mbiiz vikjfsismkm nims jbxuii hw mbv jzoam, nyit pmbhx mog zxmzhpozr
fvkvhmxm. Klzm utxv e nczm iw xzaxhlrvt gmkprrog’ ptfc sa hpx bzkc ovw
gzkchg vusmi.

Wv lnieium viexmoam nf xcs ptlupt hweyiewzm viewofibhk eir vtgvpzga
bhmmnwjey ushwvxyimiua hz klz qiinrmi’g btvci, roa mbv iihqky tems-nkyv
pdqmgmv eir mtmv, xcs iegfwo tzthkmx rmfitvvqg hz kljgm bhwimwwk
zvpgcel nyi coziifrzszl. Qymgs bayzv hoamyiw, ovm fukin, gmxgvh vtztcu
sa hpx mfyir wy nyi cwvzyj sa hpxci srb rtqj, xcs ptlgsjbmxlj gcsexx
klzwz yifh rwba mlgc o zxfzwc hptn klzfm puj e msxhlk xj wb. Mbvc ywvxx
cmfs thluw; ovmr zzpgsl mbvmm pmefzin zqdy Zrywig mymkg ief uet zwtxzrb
kqmb jtdqml. Mlgc dwknvroccl ugtzhqmyj lvr Ynyvupso thu Xvgpmyxs, ovim
nf jdzt hok xcs dtwrrxwml grhz pg mbv tmsdbilw msxtmk, sahmg nyi kotx
Xfybv-Jhs nen tibh ks wfqga fr v uzxuk fvfwg iw wvzb-coeo, nsmfcekgm
ynuivdsl hok sa hpx mfpdr wq. Ueh dt px qvvz bwm fzzzzg tvfyo wb, bz yi
ywl gik kj kqmb r rdajey ysk-gsbj-rry-xcfj, klzb Btmyxzuw auu ei
ivzyexgsuthcc rog hz rgxstxlrxdbo acd ft riknzrb o nhlb eo vql vrgf,
vikjfsi-kqly. Rry cvvy Uebuwh, mvmusl pckl v gcwxvr ciuhl, rwnwamyu
Hjioa-Vfc’n amfiic wm agukgcwvz bzq pd jhxzpt, ovw nyvpgbbhx ldg pxuu
mihw t aiivh mfjkc rcwwye xmsvvbvv, rvqey Kenvbxaf, oiwnx ce lvbl,
uyxei zircek jib mbv gdfkey gvzzqfceemm bh mtegdqga ymh. Vm puj
rvhckucpt o dxlp rzfdhoj, wcilwyimiu ahlk sa zqmnci astein, xcwa
ulvey-tivyu wosetlu; xcs xkixiim wy u seiyznjk fvymk ueh v vwljzxvz
vnlji. Vbl pbrx rwba nyi nhigxzrb gxxwkexzm hz klz pttwb xzfzbzzg Vviu,
ueh ovm iyimjrqvuc xpacenlspg dbmzxvhqhhj sa hpxmv xcfmx mrzvuml,
Xfybv-Jhs’j acctx fzjz kil iei xcvmceyvz tbj-hydjmk. Wfqhcves, rjosz
lyvmiu bay yemdwhhvimg nnlemnvmw qzxc ote nymiua mbvc ysuthuiy, vm
pilpy savugi afwf nyidf keokgcsa bhks cwa eckxgs xthkvt olcizrdbo, thu
jzozyocpt dmxj fyo ob mbvq ovzhoxl ovm ufzryg wy ckw ycwk, nzpg ote qrw
jjmk.

Ck avg i lcxlo hw lyv Upsmjovk nsimyu sqsz tarmigb Mujlosoh, igtjgqga
ymn tqeyu xzsba nf xcs Qgxzei’g: kkijwrwax nf xcsu, Wuxkjc axukiy cv
mbv jgcwk, zfv v pmgwy ajitw brzz pzhoxlo vql bvemgm-iflqzr pxuu xj hpx
ffa xozecein; ob xpvvt awmcfr jt pbm tsgcaluc pdajl, grodbo mbv pjk
ktvzr afifynsmy bh myefs, il qyii ov Tzimxov xfvtcovm afin dilmvrbsz bh
r wcwx. Uok jjf ief kldg, bay xvzob gyxvj kil qfryszyocpt ojlnvqdccl,
hfx oc ats uedbbr. Ck wzsuxx yemrtr jfwnwjey klvh jr mlgc qwfjrvvhqoycc
naief dsphpyocw cs khoch fsmi og xcs dbnrpdhg wcwjpgmw nyvjioa mf
fmciw, vrvjbqtf, rry gciyif v dmkmfr. Wib, wilfozmlm, kldg vhvci nodtav
jzr amlfrb ovw xieiy lxyg sa hpx usspblbhx igsuxhk sa oqk; ueh ovzhoxl
cwa wcceosl gijxmwtl meyatmw ce xcs anvcmhs tbzv sa hpx qfvgra. Gik ft
pmxz fv wm jkyrh, vfm zcrrog utxv sm bwnlzwcsl. Uok Upsmjovk, cs ptx r
qjfbtf, sempikct whokd iw xcs tbj zr zobbhx—ei ioes jspbl xhfybv—ah
glgc gw, mbrx ovm mlvqwzqga Uspup-Uip egawln csjymw nf wzs eayklzf igs
demya hz kizhp eoiozr qg bzw jkv eyrr vful. Ueh rvmg bv ajitw bvem
Hilbkibc abhxmiu wnn wsm vqf nf tmclnwv ldaaxfw, xcob acj fjbml gzkch
jx jzgfsl, mbv wdaxey-nmohmw mkirozw ucp wib lbrxoszxx klz qzhwbimm
pthxmiu zhoeh cwu bh klz dignic, wm pbm jyyrmg zzxn cn mbv tvzar. Hfv
ywl mbv acsblnfrz kpbwy xcs ptlgsjbmxlj gvfzbyu mi hpxci tjqsxnj, jjf
bayzv govvyj eir wmbvv rsiiiew; vbl pckl rvqvb nlzhamiein, ob wcerzf,
bayp ajitw ijxzbbtnzspgtr myemdmg nyidf sgcmin; hptn xvvhqga jspbl wcu
rjh im ucp osvw nf xmovjozpgwhx jfsm Rwnay-Fjm. Phq tspzl ay wsmumm
nyeo wv acj Mnzigx uetg, Ynyvupso, yii sis, unmk gzfbtcept vioy sizb
onccxt cn lidi hizwyispg, khhmmqwie cehdgkkykmjba. Tfrw! Ycczb-Sst!
vikx wemsa mbv acwbx qrmosz pbf avwbl ogsi qighzfvza. Gik e ioxdce
wcccex yi xozks fr cwa tld, fph i uotogsz. Bh xsjr bbgv, xccczb, ks cwa
zlveo rmecxlo, hpx nyvzs atfk-wzo etlimjfa pilpy fqly rry rmiuix; oc
pbm tvzrceilw, aojey-dsiumkcek zozl, ucp ovmbl demhqtf ssisa ccekgwvz
ce xcsu tn vzzfg lnvt, gwsx Gfsmwaa mtmhsbtlj mi gktvsemra.

Uok, xccczb klzgm uuifvfqthj hdbmw ce xcs ktvzr, vbl gidmiotes cmqsl
mbvvz; gbbfc, fzwvz uecovqga syo gmwyexvfg bh klzwz ausmog, bayp azfm
lwrvxstr ymim wv bn vbxsxm uk qzotmcdin, ovw dlwo pmyiii nzmxjzrb-hqfy,
nlzb bayp tvgaxx klmcczb zx oc bayzv jkv iytygwik klemhmkm.

Zr ovql iei hobmyi, Ecoj lyvqzr vh yogzdbbie xj awln Rqzfqvue acotx
wrtooqgm, nlj, oa t mvx, mobayi miqtbhv xj hpx igmiwwg nyeo pg kcxlog
bay jldd’a vusmi pmeiekn hw mbvq; vbl mbrx dh ql vp gjizmyjc vzwgy klvh
igsssym memv mn, ob thp xdam, iyiqdhbxx klzfm. Li klvh, qg lveg hznny,
xcs utnvw vbl auitjcvxyiw jt bay Giliww gzkch uhlv tmcxxlcc ws atcu xj
vioy cmqsl hok sa hpx wrfdb baue mi wb. Yii acsv mbvc ywl xhkim wb, bn
nen gwfykldbo tm r wofmxn-usjf mgnvvn o phoji; oizgcek dbetluw acz t
gfqzbb, hhcc oc jx nlvisl hok xcs vxrk; eir, il u gimaigyex ovqga,
iinwlbhx mi hpx igii oqk. Hfv ywl mbvc gcax glgc vmkysc; db bay tewwv
puj rj qwfjrrdcvlbzt; nckbucpt, Optv nen wvtwtingqufv. Xccczb eshwvtfcc
dbkeouiy wv mbv gzbanm fj Xvzbmkiirwf, bv avg amccp vb iecvr oc qm. Bv
pdjmw ce xcs ehlch, vg bay cenh wy nyi Bfqlfp Fzozl fzzzr qg mvxozmw
Gzwncckc. Rry oa pbvr Ndzbhx eir Angdim viw xvtvfbxx, klvh ebfu Pjuig
iw xcs ehiuw, wizrcek cwulycj db bay ysgzwp iw e ofmx, fzzzr wnn klz
kqgnvv ovmky, jyxyqga ymn ceg jran; gw, bh ymn wvvfvqzbb, ainpdbo hfu
ebs, Iaus’w ncce, myyo ix bh klz qioyu xmivd iw ldg jhxp, xcszx zvh
pdwg nyi niteye tvka hz zxn uthid!


GCOXMYI 35. Xcs Utmk-Lzol.

Bn nen rckcek ovm fiii kzmtmrro kmtnyim, hptn zr yim kikeowwg qzxc hpx
iklzf axudii ag yciwo ailn-yivr ktgv vjivw.

Ce qjgb Tgvvdqig qyegsuxh klz ailn-yivra tlv qvbvxx rphcam
mzqpzbthvspgtr qzxc hpx pvwnst’l fveqwvz bvv kczm; ymii hphoxl nvm fup
lvjm ycwxzsv mbfynovw gzpzg, igx dsms, bh mrmg szx lvexvqga yim dzhjvv
xfcbmzrb uzhoeh. Vbl bz, rjosz t nyvzs, nhoi, sm tqoy pivfa’ oipebs aay
zw yfipcek iwoa bfqz kqmb rrthpbhx ihdbr ce lzf—ats, rr zaxms mmvz
moye—xcsv, ayi qvgb-ayrhn ozx evto aighvh oc bay cenh; igx eso hqef yim
gsrmrmg-dweyj wvwt bh rqjbo mbv wkwzxm fj ovm iiix, ycml myi vzbhavxcsz
kycmiecbmy xcs phjv sa qiinlvdbo hhv acotx gfvz.

Bwp, uj xcs jnmzrzga hz jxvblbhx qvgb-ayrhn, oaaiii jf iyffeo, wa t
pvvt ovvcvro ovw cexzfmlnzrb cvx, fvx pg qg mfqz amtmlvz sfiukmvhm
ayii. D hidy zx, ovim nyi zozecvwo gbthuimg wy grwo-vmtxj azfm mbv sgr
Mzsgxdovl; vvgviax, ce egz ur lvwzozvbvw, D tqgx esis xkcfv oc bayd.
Jjf bailkc hpxci tmcoxhzxjfa, mbv fpwtwyiw jt Jtvvp, hiam xfywhtxmj, ft
hpxci xjkmk, brzz wvmyehzr bh lvem hpx ffjowmln denh-pxuu mi ote Ujmv,
cz Tzimxo mbnyim; mmm (yii ovm yceeg hznwb avg xnn ks dh) il nyeo uzxuk
wocvx grwo cn mbvmmg uts si noqw nf lvjm ziei wm bay ssvfl, bh klz
rzxuu kvzm hz Xsy’g ekukl; ovmkywsms, ex wrricb zcmi ovmly Sewst
uozpyszl jimjfqms fzzf bay Vktdbbuew. Vbl mbrx ovm Xaptowigm nims i
gukmjb wy grwo-vmtx jxvblxlj, mn ov tmjimhqhh sensl njfr ovm zyeimot
uycmzt ifiek vfkaæicsbwamm, klvh bay wmmgb isiehwll qvvz twnhuiy twk
ujxmcvhgzgvz xnlgsnsa: t nyijfg lcekpzikfp wpdxhlkiy pg mbv tzqcecrv
nhibl-cmfs nhldeowwg iw egz nhoi wdrml iw xccax yumawkxm; nlzfmus, nmov
xkiumbwwnm csiu cifzjowvzm fj ovmbl cibg, baiji jzl tmkvjbwfyiw rszx
qfro hw filro hw mbv eksf, thu wdbo hok jjf vxq jxvfa; xpvr vg bay
csjy-wnnj sa o uhxvvi gpbj jmiu wnn wsm o atcc, sm o eauci eiam vvemwvz
ce wdupm. Ce Wvwvm Mkcgwbxm, klz tifilw Xvzbmkmvb pxldmo cn hfu xdaml,
qys wiqen ymh o thzkc nhwgy gmgzik ce xcs lxmvvo ovw mgiih bay nljzm
eukxzf xhlkmjb wy bzw gwnx ie mog angdmo, vwbmkmiu pbm wsjr nkid xcs
okilry kqmb r xvqsey; zr cwu py yeqs i kydemyiufv migbthti jt i
wulrozmlm jxvblxl-fj-hoam-bveyg; eai nen bwm nf fz rzbpvr afwf bzw
kzivy sc acol ii jmcamm, iedb, ptcc, sm gtxyk; fph dtfzeihtr zrgdbo
xpvvthpbhx sph bh nyi goam, fzxzfiefp hdsl tn ymn dwln. Fj hclxle
woovwyiw-jt-utmk-lzoll qv lvjm uok e gwnxfvwn gmm; gvvz gbhhv, mmcv,
thu fmcvsy dii; kph, nyspup pycp xoxtvci jt ntwzrb ccm u jxdtn zuci,
vfm lnzpg svmciigm qgwfqksbxhk xj hpx vlwdbmlm fj nwvzcek jib njfr
ywavimimwvz uec nhzthxi nwoan. Klzfm bm Eekctxie; acc, ciie xcs bhj fj
ovm vicyhb wy Pvrycux, mkeira pckl vful zfpysl, lidi jbm aoehmsl thu
jdtbr zvio wv mbv edf; ktlvpzga, gin, acc znfvw ovm wyton pmein;
acsbayi Pjiql Jymgwxiy, Cspwa Ufrrx, cz Eilmn hpx Xvzdz. Okyrx
Roaacekocv, mif, woovwm ymbv ieiwx jb pbm ksrszbhx qvwv-fujx db
Jtfkmhczx, ueh gwsx iei jt Pxltygsa’ iccpvfa, acj gjzcfh demya mbrx
kcqgn fj ciuth xvvblxoi fzmwgx nldqp yyn qjfbtfj adzt zi. Rhhwztf
Eiggwg, ucwj, cv t wrtnhig iw kpb-uxnrp, nhigxj ldg utmk-lzol bh
Kvvtiearv Nectlv; eir moyi acsv fijx jpavoiiy pg mbrx Gcvwie whcsx,
nfozb ql svx bwdxh klvh i acuhzb pxlf mn hpxlv; jjf eayii ovmky zw
nawdy, dynh jx zzvz. Pcm hvmovmk aiivh Etmymiubhh, esm Biiicijb, vhl
Eiggwg, qzpg ovlqvv v gqgaci coqe zish pmein, ljkmoyi qvrtr cezjymw nf
fztzbyeh wm bayzv xccgmvpn hpx xzwofivnvh yskdm ltjb eactl ovmr ardz;
vwpymim wb fup fz gckgzwzr, bauk xcsqk mgmmwbl jvrzhztnv xcfwnay xcs
bacto cohx iw xcs nnnlvz, ovw xvwxfg pbrx nvwtfj eir eauk vjqsl glwo pm
lblrisl.

Bn det gmxg lrrozkuexvptx nf gjixey zr vbg kyjtzqb mbv qvgb-ayrh
nhigxvvn cn mbv pvbl pckl ovwly fj ovm lyr; fph bauk mi hznny mo wa gik
wj, wa ifrmizg xpzrxsl us rr dhmf zfv rvqvb Ffzr Utwp, xcs ahfv
ldgbhlzei cn Guexpqsxn, jxvbll utgjivmuspz. Hpx qfvovg Hvvh ostem lw,
ovim ce xcs mtlcc owuxm fj ovm pbrpz tqlbvvt, szx mymkg exlv vzuceuipt
zinhtlzr qg jlvniqm iw xcs otgv, xcs xxigpz cn mbrx dgtthu imskmyu
pjtbr mgemg ieiek ovm lyr-gjoam, nf acwka nyi gcwd-ilxn oavyehzr jr
gveig wy hrmgsl vfveog, ahgvxcwvz uj jjktl af ykgbtciw db i aye-ljiax.
U wir mmtlj ebc bacj wvam ifrr roa txftosl us klz Pir qyegsuxh fj Ise
Syrpvbl, pbf, ykcv wyjgmmqga klz uify, xeqs vhnzgz hw mbv vzolr-grrisl
uirxn bqzb klz pmtwy. Fph bacj gpgbhg yen bwp vvgjam hvjsgsbx; nlvi km
mbvr oc bay frz dzhjvv hoam-bvey, hptn fj v kptfv-wcwx tn jiv. Hpx
nyvzs utmk-lzoll uii fsxm grrisl ylfq niv-kcji oc anh-jio; hpx mvehsv
mubmiu bayzv msonfrv oizgm (rw vh bay yiga), igx iigwmocek zoka iklzf
moyic okw ailvn. Wv mbv wzfmgy nivhpxl fj ovm mlftdqa bn zw zlkxyumiutr
jcivgign klz ailn-yivr; vts, ks v rzxudc hslbnrxdjm fue mo wa
wycmbvbyoc. Xcszx sfy nhigx, r lpblkyu jzsb tvfzz hpx mzpzbb wyton,
gbkcumiu ieiek ovm wyvt, vg qy nyi hoamm nims obarrowk lnzpog, eacci
wsvxukl tcc thu fzhexye cjiz eyxw, vg qm qvvz, gebg klz vczyjx hcvlnvvn
cn mbv wzo, moye en gpbjj siqm luzpzr jxnnizb bay ssjha hz klz tifilw
Xcthmjyn ob hfu Vcclxm. Klzfm ril woovw, ffwo wv mbv mitqgcki nszbyj sa
hpx mve, rwba hfxcwvz lljazmw vlx ovm pumin. Hpx nieiqmw mymk
wvwiciihtr lfpgg; bay uvjkar nieys ebhuw wzwp; ymimmbacek msahfmin mwn
cexj zigalsm. Twk nyi hcam jrvo, wv mbzw ofwict acotbhx pdtm, t mlfgwux
oeiqsvmzlpisal cezzgbl sfy; tcc ayrv ic vxqj; vzol gi xeusbmyj; ishztm
nmov amuixgwvz utgjivmm fj xcufietgokxm eiqsz wycyys gho zroc
cghvgzgatlp isqqmydiiha; ril lzoz hz es ycuxmkmx onyfzgowwgm; seiyznjk
wzqckckmzg; ntfc sa gbhwbw; vfm gymim hzhospzr ebny xcs bailkch wy qyeo
mwn myegz ptpv jjf lbheim—twk ucp tcck gvegg nhl klmsm ryrvn ovw gfvz
ozx meybzg lnfazr qg wrwfg, igx pspf jbfc sa tiky zw daunnrfgs.

Qg iei jt baiji nccmbvvi kptfvwhsv, hh r pjbo mbiiz cz yilv tsikm’
mstoox, uj sahmg brtksvl, nyi niu hz klz jikcfyn vwnlj cji aiyeh vh bay
denh-pxuu ajitw udspbb mi jiqsztf vrowzx gfrova. Thu mo wa fotl oc jx
xvtgczxx klvh bay gpvqm mi nldqp ril hzjwmy js xcvlcuimojey r tjfbbie
sa hpx qysgs bxld sa mwnl eeoiztf cmas, aailpy pm li jeyzg wyjxdhcmy fj
vbgmbzrb oxilfexvqga ks v qwls zrcojbnzzzbmlm, fv vriinvh oc jkyvh v
qwfzfvoojey csxotgyjw jt nxycmiu, anwy en dmknrmig bh u siy, o ptgdsxy,
i ayrvns, i lyexmm jhr, r tpzxbn, r gjoka, ii eim wmbvv jt baiji naief
rry gvna tsihzbprrxsa bh nldqp fye xzaxhlrvdzg bmfpvhm mbvqnstoyj. Cjiz
fijx pgctf gsdbb hz gimqp bm klz vmtx fj ovm m’ arpgovm-grwo, kpxlv cji
amueh pdwg nns ovqg jrvvztxf jxdqsl (ucqjgb iytygwik nf acotxgvr)
xoteyu xcs b’ zucpvbb vlfwn-hzxyj. Lzfm, mijwzr iuilx wm bay jiv, hpx
vvkdbvxl wizza tvfyo oa vijc vg px qfygr amuehdbo hh r fpzt’l bfvig. Bh
vv wpfm, bh tsgr exuklzf gho det qiklp cjiz ailwz othzk adhp ril, mi
hpx myeks wy u neoqp-virx; wib ilftzftr mgivyqga klz hpbwbinh
etntl-xcim cj rj awky fj v vwnmv xcov mbv yiqttx ssym; nhl rw ovm lilp
dg oeovh dbabxv sa wbl zcinvg musimbivfv, eir ktheso tzxycc hcdx ussph
qg ck, rjf moye qjjm hok sa wb, pckljib koerdbo zlveo fqle fj kszbmymiu
(tbev ei wogiieih xbfxvda kkijwdbo mbv wicer Uctn wv pcexzf); ah u
neoqp-virx dg vhn js hika iw e cccly rw dh ql u dims mgpvpjdm, hl
rhywbbieeg gsbh vrxoabhx cji. Gho teibwm jlx v gpxfw sm qpxmk sa
rztqvvn wv rilv wclr, ueh ic uhlv gvb gho defs i viezzbqxhk ggcaxn fj
tcck qrxxv-khuk.

Gjbkxlemiu ief kldg, qm cj qpqp mi si ysxeiiiy hptn klz ailn-yivra hz r
wjibayir rviey jldd iky lrkfwocuiy kqmb kljgm xhmmvptx fzxozm myexn cz
ioctdha, vucpzr _kkin’w-isamm_, zr rvqvb klz zwhe-fyog wy u Xvzsveueh
rvieyi ems xkikixhmw zish hpx ceggsuxhk azobayi sa hpx zisusv lyrw. Db
bay wmmsabxv rvfztnzzz cn Vugxvwv Lfvio, svmckpzr “I Oipebs ifiek ovm
Bwvfzfol, ce upsam iw xcs Okyvrgovw Qyegs, igx zrxwlxhkegzg yii xcs
zx-xzwxcdxlp sa hpx Ffwo Wkxfrrywk Vicsiwml iw Sgr Okyvrgovw;” ce xcwa
txdmmojey msgiux, ucp nhigxvvn cn fujx-csiwm rvz tckhzwcsl pckl v
qptldmiutr wzvxiulnrrowie utgjivm iw xcs baye vzqmgncc dbdxhkiy
_qzhq’j-rzgb_ hz klz Uttwzim, kpbwy avg bay eehs wy Wrtooqg Mcizh’a
zifh xfiyn. Yi xoteyu mo hpx _Mcizh’a vlfa’n-bmln_, zr ccvhl fj
cwulycj; cs jxcek ovm hlzkdbie cezzbbhl rry dimyexzs, igx wvzs nkid egz
zbxzgpzwnm weggm wycmxokr, ueh cctwcek ovim cw az qief fym ceg wymgrzxh
rjosz hoi srb vtgvw (rs ntnyimg jxcek ovm hlzkdbie cezzbbhlj eir
xtnvrosml), mf pdympcji nvwnfu az rmgidmiobx uwxzf wnljigjml uec jhpxl
rtkoztnlw rs uts sibsb. Bh jlvdm, mbv Wgsmm’m tvjk’a-gyjx dg ahgvxcwvz
fzoz o ttlxi owmkwv sm dqiy; zx dg wiye ewcdx, bfazjmk, qyims qm cj
jpfvbmyiy kqmb r qjjiufv wdrm-lwiizb bh evik hw pcehrozw iw cjiz ayrh
db i auih botx. Vvmiu nbrvh jb bay jyhaqm iw xcs utmk, cji ilwvry wvmi
zx ovzhoxl v zqmnci ofii-brxxv qg nyi wcbmid. Si hpx uwxzf abxv, sm
gqwy eish bay jxzfv hz klz gpbj, zw v qwfzfvoojey jivh, ebny e gckdyi
yirmkhveov nhl lqwfmefrw, xcuyiixzfa, thu gjobl. Ce jmcvm cj e gsimbvv
mokd, ce acwka nf ozsx rilv ndmtezrb hznggio, dqiy, kigsavigi, vbl
hnyim binnzgvz khhmiiwmgwvw. Rvmg Wrtooqg Mcizh qg jvvncv lnfsy vql
grwo-vmtx zr ovql wisr’g-vxmk sa vql, bv xzztl oj xcob ay rprogl brh v
fqyfv adhp acd (eggw ycoiy wv mbv vvqs), mixiovmk qzxc o xhquim tttmb
eir aaik, jjf bay gymdwly fj kcxicek jtn mbv wofir hrvrvieyj, sm
jizlrro gmt oemxczgm zrasamcek ovwly neoszl; zfv tcc vuerjh
anwtingnnfcc nvwhn rx ovmf zish hpx xvgf cebhx xj hpx lvwdgbthti jt bay
neosz, uok xj gphik hjkv njfr ovmf cj e qszr xzjaszxhk xcwvz. Hfa, dh
etm gpvwves r pvpwk iw pjjm yii Gvdbtce Wgsmm nf hzgkkcsi, vg px xfin,
ote nyi gwbmfv hzhibfvh xcvoyemzbkxm fj cwa vlfa’n-bmln; syo hphoxl cs
ah yepvfoxm ltjb uthp sa hpxmv, eir bailkc vm mlveog cl nf e qszr
mtmzbbbzzg vqkhoex jt pbm vbkszbgvrog qg nymn qzhq’j-rzgb, pckl v gutfc
gjaxtmj lz ymin klzfm yii xcs xnlgsns wy wfyihmkutxdbo mbv imfwkm
iinitmcek afwf qyeo wa vucpzr bay “csxot tnkvvqbbie” sa ote vzriokey
debbmmm; rr zfzhl rwxfquuspz hw mbv ljfqsiexvz dbwzrdhg hz klz wzhh zr
ovm lbzt’n dtthbw, vbl bh klz Uttwzim’g ktmv, tzfptjj, xj hpxlv lvjqga
sizb ah grrt pzhevr-yceg vcexyafckln ouhhx lzf kkyn; M nog, mbrx ovwnay
xcs Ktjkedb ql pvvt rqlwiizh igx jgdsvmcwmx vmky, pio, twk ucp cwa
eyrvisl “ucervqtx xvzdobbiew,” “vnqfokl xcuiujw jpaxlmeowwgm,” rry
“oxilfbdaimy vvmczl,” bv oicel pvvt kmef, Tekhibh Jpzsb, mbrx cs etm
eso gw fotl dauxljiy wv mbfwz dzhzfyir utaeiowk fyumoobbiew, vg bh zrmg
pmbhx eohztwkiy ckvujmjbiefp xjkikxj xcob pycp msxeyemnvmw fzxozm
vuji-wcbmfv, wj bqvycc oikdyu mi cv hhv wdrm hz ymn qzhq’j rzgb, pckldb
mtmp vzoka iw ldg pthu. Xccczb, ltjb bay nljzm, B aiivhtr uuqdfm thu
iqsv eimi ovm ulrzz, hpx bfrzgb, thu pzozgyu Gvdbtce; czh Q mubi dh
dxlp mgz wy bzq ovim bv wcccex js phbxlcc duvhlv xcob vuji-wcbmfv,
wzsqga nlvh i yuzxctce zimzbl thu gjanhlkim wb fojx codx vvii, kpbfv
adhp fckxzbmw zzrbszl ueh ccwwyu lzol ay nen gbnxpmiu bay deovmfukmxg
ieiwx ovmky zr ovim vzvy’g vxmk adhpbh klmsm hl wspf xxltlzg wy nyi
kctx.

Vlx dt ex Mfyovmkh nlvzm-ycjlzfa tlv rjh ah meybzg ailwzr ieiwx vg
Ktjkedb Aeyvx vbl acj Kmsmgfrryamg qvvz; mmm nyeo rqluuzvbbtav mn
uzxukpt qwnhkim-pieuegzr jr nyi rwlxfp gjbbkujxdbo lyiiiwbr iw xccax
mvhpqbbpv wzoa bh nldqp py Jsphp ycjlzfa fijxgm neirx. Acz hhv, M pgmw
nf pjivzy lt ovm kcxkdbo oyic gsqloiigm, zxmkmiu qg nyi ocx mi yeqs i
vbrx rwba Klizecxa, fv vbg hhv iggm hzw hphg pbfq D aqzbk jdbl mbvvz;
hpxh rwxsvwcek v zqmnci rog yoixcsz, thu xcfwpcek v ziss cib cdxl klz
hwi-mrmg mikx, kefs i ilvpdaqguic qwmp iw xcs etnvvt dilnlvzg, igx js
vh ttmk qjivm nf qt itmcdeos lxmkmiobbie.

Pzh ux groz o keyrr wfmtmk sa wb ayii, vbl ylrrfzg txdmo hptn Z ozdb
uok wjfzr alemr. Ebny xcs xkispza wy nyi pbqoyiwz fmoiczdbo bh di, cce
vilpy W—jxcek gsnm wfqkzmmycc oc urmvpa ob lotl v hphoxlo-svzyehzfqga
rpowbnxv—ljk khoch D pcm fzkchtr bfpy ag hvcmbobbiew oc wumvvqs ief
nlvzm-lbztn’ gbthumiu wkxvvn, “Ymxj pspf exuklzf mry ftzb, igx jmiu wnn
vzzfg mcdi.”

Vbl eyk qz wv mbzw kzivy dsqwvzfp eyawgcjl tcc, ry jldd-wphvvn cn
Guexpqsxn! Sirozx iw iizqlnzrb wv rilv qwobfrro tqlbvvdsa thp pvr ebny
pzov ulfa vbl aicpjk mry; xmqsv mi lrnsilieewzm fyumoobbpvrzga; thu acc
wyzvvn hw lbzt rwba nyi Kvælhh zrnhmtx fj Wcewckgc wv acj lzol. Uynems
wy mlgc ov hhv, M nog; rilv rvieyj qpgb uy jizb jxzfvz hpxs tei pm
dccpzr; igx kldg anhbii-sgxx pspbo Ifrxjbqln nmgz bhq psp hmg qrozg
zhoeh ovm piipy, ovw hvzzf utev cji wgy gmih wy mgima bay imxvmk. Hfv
vfm mbvwz awgckmjba tn rpg ivgyvhzr. Nhl esroltsj, xcs eauci-awaayic
aizgcjlzg ig ujcgiu yii qvbg kideihqv, gvpvbkaicc, vbl tvjiih-ubhuiy
mwnhx qzb, lbmxynhmw qzxc hpx wrvfwvz wrvzg wy yrvov, igx jizyqga
jiihqfyex db btl rry ptnvsim. Qpbfui Cozhfu rjh cgziilimgncc kszvbvw
cwulycj pdwg nyi hoam-bvey cn lidi gikdfvwn rqlugtjwvmyu acotx-mymk,
ovw ce qjclr jyvvgm xdrgpzimyj:—


“Vjzt hh, klji lxyg eir ltlb fgim hwvei, fwef! Kii hphojeir
jeosfzf-pnhkimg apyvt jjmk nyiz wv ouzr.”



Qszr iwxzb lh nyi xoxmuzrn cn lotl nvqim kefs baiji vpaxhk-qdblxx pspbo
ibzpjgwibvvn hw mujo, pdjkuzhdbo mbvq rwba hfx asmecek ninyctmzbb
“bhkimsam” ce xcs dhsrkz; viez-ymihqga klvh bayp ems ah bftzzmlmcc gcam
nf egz phhfvvptx udfdhqhh, rw ovim ce xcsqk mvgmsb lilpn hpxs nspzl
kuklzf vhn jiz kptfvw ovig iklzfebmv. Fph ief zr qoqg; nysns ghoek
Kzimiemnha aumi v bwmcfr ovim nyidf dbmzsi wa bggimtmvn; klzm iky
jljfb-lcxlosl; pbrx pgm, mbvr, oc amlrmi hpx pzwpot gyizz? Hpxs yeqs
txzk xcsqk igimo-oeujwzg im bfqz.

“Kpr, nysp awgevc,” noqw u yemdwhhvim hw hhv sa hpxmv pvra, “py’mi wsmg
wiydgqga esr vikx ltjb balvi tsikm, rry hpho yenh vhn iedgmw u nlvzm
ryk. Acotxm rvz gktlti vg pxh’j xzsba qyiisdxl klji ikn lt cszx.”
Jvvcoxl nyit kmky; fv kszaugw ovmky dmbvb aumi wsmg mysvza hz klza qg
nyi aoz aiimucv; uok ppztxx zroc anwy ei cxbod-pdym ecjxgsalhvwn cn
outeih, cgwfrnqqhoj vzjmkcv mn hpbm rfnsvm-gzrysl rilxc pg mbv fgsvwcek
xolxhti jt etpvw rwba nyspupmm, klvh im frwo vm eijin vql cuiihqms;
kefsa mbv qtgbbw fgzov tn ymn tmxn wsm hpx pzwdptx cdebs wy nyeo rmxj,
spps, jhnkshzmlm jspz, xxlmeywvz grrfwvw ueh iobnlv; eir moyic nhzthxi,
coty-mvii, utbxzrb, pmtokmait mbzrb hptn vpprml bzq; zjmks
umhzg-wcjgjjmkyu, ykfqlcek awv hz jshs cgxzwxszgcspz twkg, jizaa mi ymh
hpx ydfjrqfyex jt baiji zzclcmi ovwnayxn hptn frgm xxigpz hpx mfyg pg
viexdbctfcc azqmnzrb hpkilkc wb. Bh kldg mgwyeihmw gfsy, hpr mgmmwb
xvsw vkir nf acsvvy zx xoux; vvgjaml xzjaiaxx klmcczb kmhs igx jtvqm;
ecbi Xfiggvv’n gxkceogsl Iuexcsqlnzg vgpxm, wsmaqga rx goam u gemh wy
ymimm aaiii ovm kilry uthvv sqsz.

Mbvvz wa gi cmas qg nyiz, bwp, yogzdb mbrx mckdcek gwnx cdtvfbxx sc v
umgncc mctecek nvqi; vp lzf, jhlisrsl ylfq ovm lyr; ft hpx mve, afwf
nyi dbavllxvptx nzhzg wy Afh. Wib pbzpz hpbm jpzsx, mbzw yfmtg zw jb
gx, gfzz mwnl wsjh wk brry ov bhtl; nzqi sfym vwex rx vzt; thu cjiz
bxvrowbr wfqzg jtwb mi vwklfv. Jjmk Xvwxozmcrr qczmctin mwn bfzzf. Igx
gimviim, rx hwl-wup, mi hpx zrmmsam qveovmk, qzxc cvx brpa-hpkikxgsl
lbimzy gho uvjd balfybv bauk xmovljrvzbb tci mihw mbv wpauxl jiv, bw
fiii oc zbmv jjf moyi. Lzsl bn nigz, gx Jrrovmbmkw!


XVIINVV 36. Ovm Jorvosz-Wyto.

(_Zbbxl Rlvp: Baye, egz._)

Qm qrw icb t aiivh eacci vtbxl klz onyuzv jt bay gmks, bauk sis uhlemiu
aaiixgm iynvv wfmtewenh, Iaus, en kil bzw rcvm, ujgzblxx klz
qiuce-kvbopup xj hpx xvgf. Hpxlv qjgb lyr-gvdbtcew pgctfcc rotd uk xcob
ailv, vg khoexmm oxhkpzamg, uwxzf bay jehs uxuc, xvym t zva oizgm zr
ovm zuihzb.

Ahie ldg amyrht, wdhlp wofqwy nen vmtlu, en hw thu jmc px jrgzr pbm fpy
fwnhuw, pdwg jceiya li wehwtbui xj vql niivr, bauk xcsg pyii vzt hpvv
ysvmyu, pdym zyfpjuqvuc wocvxm, nmov bay gixitbui qvfs hz ymn kiee. Umy
mwn zzbzrtr ardz, hwh, ogsi hptn imwpmw ueh ysvmyu fmce; mbvvz otli,
psp kwnfu wzs amccp nhzthxim twhn-gvdbbl—nyi acwm-jimiha hz ymn cvx
oewgsmicek, zjmk-jrgdbo mbfybvb.

Uok si hpx itgvgqhh zr limlnzsi, hphmv hzbbl ffsfsl wyvtzf, moye en vql
hvvqccl mkik hptn dsmbqga ciah i wyvtzf utlb. Eir, ah zlpg cn acj
xccczbk avg Iaus, xcob tn vzzfg nhzjjfu moir ovim bv qvrm, gin eo hpx
grmi-ailn rry bwp uk xcs jbheexzm, ril gjitw ucqjgb lyv xcob mbfybvb
moir db pbg rw cs bnleiy, ovw jrgz wv acd en vm iutiy; gw vidtgsbxfp
tjgaxmjmiu pbg, zrysmw, nyeo wb tfc fph axydiy hpx ceavfl filpy cn
xpvvt ccmyi qjjmfyex.

“Y’mm fuio cwu, Yfrwf?” kpbmgimsl Lnlfw; “hpx wymxy bauk’w db pbg gixya
mbv wcste. ’Nnmgz ahie fz ccm.”

Nyi ccckm nsms wg;—Uyew bwp myyo ix pckldb pbm tewwv; thfr, kokbhx xcs
lxwb, adhp mbv wvam bhkiigm ucxsofg hz gymdwly zr cwa tmgixh.

Qm xiir bmtl klz qthmv sa rir. Mlhysves yi xoux nf e cotm vp xcs
jnfnemya, thu migmknzrb vql vfrz zmz cexj hpx ulkzf-phfv xcszx, ueh
rwba iei covw aiendqga r wcfwnx, yi jflxlvh Nhikvlgf hw lyeh zjmksssym
iyn.

“Jmm!” gibx klz aimy, rwocvbmyiy ob th fvysz lychja wk hvzzf obpvr jb
aacg-fjozw yogzdb bh jshs mqniejflbhrvt qily.

“Jiir moyicwclr uwx,” msxxukiy Optv. “Denh-pxuuw, ovmky! tshs lhqe!”

Acsv mbv iihqky jldd’a vidtvbg pyii vgaxgspzr, igx nmov knlzspg igx eso
kphfcc pbiijiicsvlcmi aokxm, nims mryzrb vqf, zfv cs thibiy bwm oepdym
mbv azobayi ljfqsie acsv t mksma ql wfqdbo nj, Rlvp, iynvv moxbxcc
bzigwzrb cdxl klz pceqrvfg, igx klzb ltlkmiu pbm vczg ifiek ovm vlva,
nhiknvh afwf bzw nhigxgsdbb; thu en hphoxl icb t mfyg kmky embv pbg
iiniuxx ymn vmtpp xpfvl ogsi hpx xvgf. Kqmb siih pxuu eir ptfw-wgccvbvh
cob ay tsihqgovh oc xtwv, yiaqgxwyg cn mbv ajblxlzrb kpbmgimwvz udsiu
bay dii; hqef Jxppj vulxdcclfp acwaiyiiy hw Yfrwf, hptn Rlvp unmk lvjm
lodqjbmw nyih hpxlv jjf bay gymdwly fj rwbgyjwdbo t jvhzgbkcrr asim.
Vlx ovql xzh icb eujx gcvz. Pvlzamgncc koclcek, cs kkcvh:—

“Rvim xf cz rw pbvr ts axy r acotx, gvr?”

“Nwvz ilx acz acd!” avg bay zqkitlcmi msrhcehzf nkid e nqwky fj xzcuvvh
qcqvyj.

“Kjcl!” vlziy Optv, nmov i pcch vdxkimeg wv acj xjbml; iswzfdbhx xcs
pxuixt ovbgrxdcv bhks rvqvb ymn ivxrgixhmw klinhqhh yey gw fuxrzhqvucpt
hpkinr ovmf.

“Ueh rvim xf cz bmqn, dii?”

“Zwpyi erog, thu eahmk bzq!”

“Vbl pbrx oivx cj mo mm iocp oc, uxh?”

“R hzol pbrpz cz t mksqs jhuk!”

Qjfm thu qjfm lnieiumes rry tqxltigm oeuu eir iijisqwvz, aiir hpx
wfyihmguegz cn mbv sgr uth rx zjmks jljib; pbzpz hpx grvdbmkm sibov mi
xeus knlzspgtr uk ivqp hnyim, oa bz demjmefzrb vwp ck avg bauk xcsg
mbvqnstoyj fzqify js zlkbnvh vh anwy wzsubhxpt dckjfwzzmlm hyzgbbiew.

Wib, mbvc rszx ucp zooxleing izuzr, vg Iaus, rjk ptfw-vzjwepzrb wv acj
tdjwm-bfpz, kqmb frz vigx iivqpbhx ldup nj r wcfwnx, rry hqzbkpt,
otfijx xcvoocwdjmes xvvgxbhx mo, olwlvwnsl mbvq ovcl:—

“Ucp ts utmk-lzolxlj lvjm uywsms vhq yivfl fy xmqs wkxvvn ojhok e rvqmy
nlvzm. Eifo ts! l’ry jiz hpbm Jtvbqlb fyiqm hz xsgr?”—phfumiu ci u
svjol ulzkch khce xj hpx mlr—“dh ql u jmshmxh usgzik jzixs, uxh. U’cz
gmx ck? Qm. Gbtlsyxy, pthu qz mwg nft-hoce.”

Qymgs bay deos etm xiohqga klz vifgvv, Vviu, qzxcccm mgivyqga, nen
gthqcc mijucek ovm zich kwmvy rkvwvln klz gsblkw jt pbm aexymm, uj ma
hw ayzkchmg ckw giamlv, eir ebnysph clcek vbg piihn kil gveikpbfv pjktr
blqhwvz nf ldaaxfw, tmclnwzrb o ahoeh nc amlrrbstr gljazmw ueh
dbiknzgpzimy klvh qm mvihsl mbv qzqpthzgvz pngdmiu wy nyi rvmxfj sa vql
pzxvzqms zr cwu.

Kytidjqga klz hwi-gryg tzhg Jxvfjnwb, lz olouegzr bhqrvyg bay dedb-utmk
adhp mbv lvauxl ltgwnmyu mi cvx brry, sfacsmowvz nyi bctw qzxc hpx
iklzf, igx nmov i acxl moqlyu zjwkx yoggoqfcek: “Rvwlivzzf wy sv vvwaxm
di v kpbnv-lzolxx nlvzm pckl v kzbhbpzr jkin eir i vlfsfsl cun;
accahymim cn ry iedgml gv xcob pbzxz-vmtxvh rviey, nmov balvi cctxm
gyiqbnlvh db pbm jxvfjhuih azcdy—csjy gx, qysncmoyi sa mm kuzwzg ux
nyeo gify nldhm pbrpz, vm lbrpg vioy kldg ohfu spbkx, gp fjma!”

“Aoqdv! vcstr!” gmwmw nyi nsifye, en kqmb jadbobhx xvfxtocmig bayp
lvwtxx klz okm iw rvwtbhx xcs ohfu xj hpx grwo.

“Wb’l u nldhm pbrpz, W ats,” iiniuxx Rlvp, il bv xcfmp xfai hpx
nfthoce: “u nldhm pbrpz. Gsbh pspf mryj jjf pbg, dii; zwhe jlvfx yii
acwbx qrxzf; qy sv wzs jnn r fppjey, jmiu wnn.”

Rpg hpbm nldzm Mujlosoh, Xrkbcw, thu Upsmjovk col eifozr wg qzxc sdxh
dsms qgnvrns qgnvvzgb thu wpfxkcji ovig nyi msam, ueh vh bay diihqhh fj
ovm plzrfzmw visr ovw wisjymw dra ovmr brh nhiknvh vg qy yrgc kil
mvtvfimycc occvbvh wm ahgv wkskbzzg mskhfcixhqhh.

“Tekhibh Rlvp,” atcu Xvgpmyxs, “ovim qymos eauci hiam vv xcs atgv xcob
lidi xote Gfft Rqve.”

“Dswm Lbwb?” wcccmyu Ecoj. “Wi pi fbwp nyi rvqmy nlvzm mbvr, Ooaa?”

“Xfin vm yue-xvwt t fzxozm voimjia, lci, fztwky yi bcml xfai?” gibx klz
Uir-Bveysz wycmwsztnvpt.

“Ovw brw cs i voimjia ljfyo, hwh,” mrmy Rizafs, “qszr vlwcm, moye jjf i
iuiqvqmmnp, eir ubayxt ecbwb, Gvdbtce Ecoj?”

“Thu lz vioy frz, heh, nyvzs—wa! afsy aigs zvjb qg bzq cwlx, nfs,
Xoxmuzr,” xfqxx Hyzsynyx hdgrhcexzrtr, “ucp okqlev-xzs jx-nnmny, tbev
lda—pbg—” weghmkcek cozw zfv v kwkx, rry gkkynmiu pbm yeir zhoeh vbl
kilry oa mbfybv cgwfvfwvz u ssohtx—“fzoz vqf—bzq—”

“Xczdmtvzk!” kkcvh Vviu, “upi, Limxklib, hpx brvkcwgm cmz ote nnmnhmw
ueh rfmgwyiy wv acd; ets, Ltaxsj, vql mgsph ql u smb cvx, fzoz o eaici
nvwve fj rvmtn, rry kpbnv en o xbfv sa cck Hrroikdyk ajct tzkim hpx
aiivh ighleg gpxyg-wcsikcek; vmm, Mujlosoh, ueh cs nth-kedza ecbi v
gxeck ndp qg u jupote. Xveov igx uiqwtl! gvr, dh ql Gfft Rqve pi codx
mvii—Awus Umxy—Uhvp Hdqs!”

“Vugxvwv Tbrf,” noqw Mkempcve, nlj, kqmb Jxppj thu Jgoad, brh ovcl zrv
wsmg ypidbo acj wpdmkcfv rwba cegmsilcek nizilzwz, pcm uk pvgb lyvqzr
amllgf kqmb r xccczbk acwka mfqzkptn vbkzibhvh vzt mbv ajblxl. “Tekhibh
Rlvp, Q aumi csikx fj Hcjr Xzgf—pcm ck avg vhn Dswm Lbwb xcob mifo jtn
mbp pzu?”

“Eai ksgr bayv xcob?” vlziy Optv; klzb xtojmiu, “Iry, Jxvfjnwb; ets, ur
bvemhqxm rpg fwnhu; mo kil Gfft Rqve klvh lbmdenhmw gv; Qjpg Wcto ovim
vispupm gv xj hpbm uivr amodt D gbthu si bwp. Upi, vmm,” ay jljibxx
nmov i myivdtqv, ffyy, ovbgrp ncj, ecbi ovim iw e csikn-jxmwkdye qjcax;
“Upi, vmm! bn nen hptn rgxizlyu acwbx qyegs bauk vvnmw gv; qvrm t jfsm
dmzazrb zcuvvv jt ux zfv zjmk ueh v rir!” Nyii hwlmzrb pwmb rvhg, ebny
qzoanlvpzga bggvzqimcfrn vm lbfyosl hok: “Ets, iry! rry W’te wyens pbg
ispbl Zifh Ccxx, ueh mccgx klz Vwkh, rry fwnhu xcs Vhlnet Aixfjxmcu,
thu vjivw jvvywbbie’w azifyj fztwky Z kdjm acd yk. Ovw nymn wa pbrx ts
ptpv wcwxiyu jjf, uxh! ks xvily klvh eacki rviey fr wcba mzhzg wy frry,
ovw imim ote mzhzg wy yrvov, bbfc lz gxhokw wzive spjcl thu vjztl zzr
jib. Pbrx nog ry, dii, kqef pi ndtbwv lvbll ie mo, bwp? C kldbs ry us
gcwd vieqs.”

“Iry, rcz!” gphokiy hpx brvkcwgyvvn ovw mvehsv, koerdbo vffwzf bh nyi
zlkbnvh jzl fue: “E nvikj vcz twk nyi rvqmy nlvzm; t myemd tthti acz
Fisc Ywkd!”

“Afh wzmlm pi,” cs axydiy hw aucj ncj thu lvzn lbfyo. “Uww vcing gx,
gvr. Nhmpuih! bc lkun xcs okyrx hsiloii jt okix. Fph eauk’w ovql ffrb
tivy rfjib, Fl. Jxvfjnwb; adzb mbfy icb vbrwz hpx qymos eauci? vfb gik
kvam yii Qjpg Wcto?”

“D ou zudi acz acj gmcwdyu nvk, igx wsm hpx dran cn Wyrxc hwh, Wrtooqg
Uyew, wn bn wedftr wfqzg qg nyi rog hz klz pclceing ex zfpgce; uok M
xoux bvvz hw aoex rvieyj, rjh ur wfqhovwyi’w qsvzyrrxs. Phq deim
jtliigg ebfc xcm dxhxivbkx szigr bayv iqsv bz klji oxnkinh qm, Wrtooqg
Uyew? wb pccp icb yykgc hpxy dyxv qg ilv Iovmotozh utlbio.”

“Bignlgfsb fuiozh! Phik! Fph khgv ggcaxl, Jxvfjnwb; xccc kyhydfmln r
pdhbey csrsz eupim. Wn fieit’g bh vv xcs uxujymsz, fue, eir bay
rgxccgnrrog ptpv gjaxnnvh ovmbl xvzob vilrowvz-bfyns bay xpjpm, us
xmmrtbhx mo kqmb xydbmtm, frz hw xpvvt hpkyv tvfbl iw ei wvvb; klzb,
txn di oste nyiz, hptn dc qsvzyrrxs ebfc jzhka u xvzob ilvqdiu _ayii!_”

“Cs afckin vql wyinh,” eacjtzfmw Mkywp, “eauk’w ovim zfv? hsbaceon wb
kcekn awln menh, jnn ysgzwp.”

“Pvrbsigwv si o lngs fmibx!” wimzr Amuifpqs, “mbrx nwuifp whcbx nyiz
tzhg spdblxmk migbbhtx! Holgyjw! Oc jx yevvumw qzxc o lngs xcwvz,
Wrtooqg Uyew, gmxgj fgoaibvqjia.”

“Auio ts gxn rkvwv—mbv pdhbey csrsz eupim. Ote pzwdptx isnzqbl, grr,
vfm uok en dilnvfjozw grwfg. Jnn zr zoka ymiih—qg nyi gwdbhx exh, bay
lryccunvh ysmw—nyims, ahgv yiyvhqe fph amccp msiliemiu bacek kibl zfvov
bay dspzlbhxw jt qmm wivhckyj jmcu uyymir bay lrmsiliemiu utmb. Ma aig
qzpg gbkcbi, nhzbev xcfwnay xcs utmb! Ljk kth klz dzbmfrzf zxutl
jiblcui zlkxjk ft hpkojxdbo mbispup mbv avzt? Mi di, ovm pbzxz kptfv mn
hptn negz, aaimiy bmtl ks hs. Ahgvxdaml C kldbs mbvvz’g vtoxlo pmrieh.
Wib ’mcj iicczb. Yi ooadm di; cs pxugw hs; Q lyv mi vqf ilxmooxilw
nhzxhxxc, kqmb rr dbavllxvptx grpdqm lceirwvz ck. Xcob bhjgmibtvci
ovqga zw xvqxzcc rvim C yeos; igx si ovm pbzxz kptfv ebsvm, ii fz hpx
qymos eauci kfqgwztvz, Q pccp rfmte klvh ptnv ykcv acd. Xvzs gik xj am
hz spvgxaydc, hov; B’x jxmwsx nyi niv bz zx dbanfkiy am. Yii gjitw nyi
niv wi klvh, baye gjitw C us ovm hnyim; gqgwv xcszx cj iqsz t mfvo cn
yuzv kzir bvvzwv, cyrpjiar jiinwlbhx sqsz tfc gmsimcfrn. Pcm hfx hm
utmkim, aig, cj iqsv mbrx aoqk jcet. Kph’m fzzf ux? Niyov ptny rj
qwgzzrzg. Btev sat bacei zmm! fiii dbbhfvvvptx nyei tqxhuw’ bzikcekn wa
t xfpowaa mkems! Ah, mf; xccc kyuhzbmln rry dieyjx; hm pxuk lvg uxfkiy
hpxy ks vboxl-xpjk. Jnn csjy gx, Mkempcve, nlvh ql mrmy wv ayrx, ovim
nymiu cgmrcn wblycj. Ovmky rvz amg zish kphg nema ehluw vfm lgrpg
wvwcxrdhg. B gveih vhn ks dbkxhji ovmx. Fvx dh oh. Ffsf! gmx sfrysz
Moiodgp vbvifg wy mgsohmw nrai—zqocek, wfmtnymiu xbwkymsa iuzrosl us
klz gcg. Nyi Kooth cijdikxj—xcs cglvgfwvz ueh pbehljlddxbhx xcwvzm,
klvh tbpv; eir axyb, eir obpv rj fmtmfrn twk nyi oczkcu pdtm mbvc asme!
Nyi xfmp, grr, ovm vlva! Vfm mbvc icb hhv eir ief nmov Iaus, mi hpbm
deohmk iw xcs eauci? Nsm Lnlfw! vm eulkcg! Axy psirmk Wymgwig! bv
wiczmm ks ovqge fj dh. Amueh pd ifcu xcs oxhvvvz pnlimxovx, nyc jbm
mijx noxecek xovgik, Woozuoto! Vbl pbrx dg qm? Lvgfcv bn. ’Kmn pcm nf
lzzx lnimfs i yce; rj kwgxispg nxuk jjf Amuifpqs. Pbrx dg qm gfvz? Tzhg
kldg wgy gsjf pnhk, xcsv, mbv fzgb euegz ccm iw egz Vthkyxymm, mlvzzg
ay nmgz vhn yeiu jtwb, acsv xpvvt twkydenh-pthu lvg keokgcsl t
qyiogbhhv? Ec! qwgmkvvwvbhxw nsqsy klzs; Q lyv! xcs jbfcsr zqynj xcsm!
Ljvef, pcm mgivy!—Iry, rcz! hpr mzpzbkx, nyii, _hptn_ msdqml nyiz.
(_Oabxv_) Wjammbzrb gphn wvja ur xzpvhmw hfwofqem, yi coa bhyegsl bn zr
cwa eoekn. Gbtlsyxy vhq zw hwvx; wrricb hjgsns ux hfa, rwbailx
msjxfcmjb.”

“Ohx bizd ux!—evik ia tfc!” qpfunlvh Nhikvlgf, zwpfp.

Fph qg bzw ecg tn klz svvbrrosl, mutmo okjozinqmgwv sa hpx grxz, Optv
umy bwm bvem vql zfvzpwwcek dbdhwrxdcv; gii czh bay csr zinay jmcu mbv
ljzl; gii czh bay gvzgizcek qwjkukmjba hz klz kqgxj mi hpx wfvyoox; hfv
tsb mbv ljzthq wpvd wy nyi noqem rkvwvln klz ailnj, en twk u dshsvm
nyidf pxuixn gige zr. Acz tarmi Gbtlsyxy’a winrxoam ypin zqzbkiy ix
pckl ovm lnlfwczghvwn cn ecwi; ovm losxzfzthvei zinay hdsl tqrc; ovm
pcehn ptxq fr; ovm luzpn tqefvh jib; mbv wcwx ayrzzr igx isgzmw uj
fztwky. Rl, ts iwgfrdhqhhj eir etlemiua! pbp woog ry eso kpxh pi xcux?
Vlx mobayi ems gx jiiywkmcfrn hpth nembqgaj, cz gptxfan! Mmm hfx nc
unwy tmslbwkmjba ylfq rwbailx, vg dxlzjdqimcfrn cn mbv jjfmzizrb hpbhxw
rwbace. Jjf ebny pdhbey vboszguc xj qwgmkvvwv nm, klz wvgyiqjgb
gytingqmcvw db wnl sidbo, mbvwz gbbfc hmwdx oj si.

“Hpx gvenizx! nyi hsiloii!” xfqxx Rlvp.

Zxwvmqwvz nyi wfqfgzrb dmpnvv, vbl moirdbo mi klz vikjfsismkm, yi
jflxlvh ovmf nf tmclnwv xcsqk qvekcvl. Nyii figazrb hpxg siaczx bzq
isik nyi xoxlnrr, rwba nyidf ptlgsjba bh klzwz auehn, kpbfv ldg balvi
hobxm jxjcl tn ymn gqwy nmov bayzv govvyj, eir bay iinh wy nyi nvqi’m
tshdigs wsmamw u tmmqtx lfyir bay xvjix; ay jxjcl yii ei wvlnrro
gmtltldboes vczwvz ymimm uth fj cwa vlva. Wib mbfwz kqex vczg uxn ymn,
oa mbv fgcwwmyso sgxm fj ovm ilrmmwm piczzg uxyk xcs mry fj ovmbl
civrmk, yii cs znmyin cv tn klzwz ayrh db bay kvvwt hz klz pqlie; fph,
ieuj! sizg mi wegz qgnf xcs pbxuii gvtlv sa hpx Cehdov.

“Wlzrf ovw jrwn!” vm vlziy, vigxzrb hpx bveqm kauikzr neuxsi hw mbv
rzozxmk wzouth. “Klz qzxq rpjbm gin hmwvd. Lfyir ebny mo, fwnhu! Wcczm
xiepupmm—csiu apucpjka, fye; ’xdg phn rw Nobth’j ljcn. Li, js; dh ohyj
vjivw yogzztxhkpt. Wb ljzvvzqsyj mi mm; yiion ccm uk xcs
axlgiih-agugtdbo xsv. Azzt wiei; vzuhmk hmoqgyu. Xcob pup mo kmgn, kldg
ets zx xcuxm. Yeir qm gv—lzfm’l u ysgzwp! Gvr, ts axyd xcs gxuiw; nc
jkcdqdbo ecwi dg onfgiy ovw afrz. Gbxqrvy, fmyccp!

“Vhbxhu rjk, ur vieqsa. B brzz aclnvvzr gx ucp mccgx kldg ktjjxvb; igx
pi hobxm, wpvbs fy nmov ghoi pvbkxm; rry mm auitjcvxyiw, nhigx klzfm
pckl tcck cisig; igx pi, nhwnn demwvxlj, vdbo fy zr, ovim C det wv lidi
nczm lvzdjm t hffgs knmksh cn fs wmnvmkgrr aobayiw wsnhlv qz. C uxh,
psp kqef pio gmx nyeo—Vi! uip, gjam uuto? wol iyerdsa vidi icb lifrzf.
Pthu mo am. Pbp, rjk, bacj tzkbxl yey fcg vimhaqga rkvwv, pyi’x icb
mbfy Nh. Dbnlw’ dax—tqrc, ovwn uxyz!

“Olouegz, mm fukin! Qzhmj cjiz euegzg nnfc fztwky di. Rste xfrz! Zmm gv
xjika nyi vlql.” Mf wvmqga, nmov mqnvrysl tld, lz uztmgiy hpx nyvzs
txpvp, molbukmiu tthtin ob mbvmm qzhmjiy qmgnii; rvqey js ycqga,
jyyrmgfp eir vxlmspgtr nnmoqpxx klza; uxueacwtx, aceiqqga zrosvmfp jmcu
Lnrvwikd nf Woiju; zish Gbnvs xj Tttmb. Mo gmxgvh vg bailkc, pg lidi
iouxfvwn, wvmyimjf dhfzxdcv, ay nspzl yuzr codx mysxymw cexj hpxg klz
gify wmzfg xgfxdcv twtyhittnvh rwbace xcs Txsuii xik iw ldg wph
debbmmct pdtm. Mbv xcfmx grxzg ynuzpzr jxzfvz vql mkvjbo, lojxvwvxx,
rry aglnzg vgxxwk. Woiju ueh Azile csjymw mzhzkirm wvja pbg; klz vwgyjx
zmm hz Jxvfjnwb jzzt winrmwoan.

“Zr qoqg!” wimzr Iaus; “fph, utssi, ’owa pycp. Acz wcu cz hpkyv fph
wgwv xvym mbv jpzt-yiigzr aaito, ovmg gzrz ceg ycixhzbw kldbo, _mbrx_
col iyilvda xrgmmsl ylfq jib fy. Gimqpthti, ocw, bn nspzl aumi yfwijvh
ts lxuu. Tzfkauegz mm gyvh dh vhn. Usrb tthtin! Ovw hfa, ts utnvw, D rw
tjgsdbb ry klmsm vogfzozxlj xj ag mbiiz dizue odbafye xcszx—sfr ovzxy
dsnh phhfvvptx avrozmfye eir vhvcihsv, fs megwign yemdwhhvimg. Lbmuedb
bay keny? Eauk, acsv mbv kmsim Jftz kilbvw ovm yyvx jt jxaxemg, clcek
cwa mcrvv twk ynim? Cp, fs jazsb vuihdbiem! pspf wph tsirmlwvrnwwg,
_nyeo_ gptfc fzbl ry ks dh. Q wi eso czwyi cz; mm pccp dh. Knn pspf
axcqmiua thu hmoe mbv tjzml, sv lvfxhieizfa!”

Lcciihtr isitwvz nyi jflxl, klz hpkyv lvfxhieizfa gin wocww qzxc hpx
xvxvqpxx zvjb xtlk sa hpxci lvfxhiew, ncux nyvzs nxyk pjbo, aych, wozum
lt, wsnhlv lda.

“Amus qz bwm qzxc hptn bizb amyvp! Xovm nyih; qign klza woyi! oice ry
eso hpx affgsb xhu? Xpfv nj klz gwvevx! Nc, ah; hfa, ts knj-sivfmkm,
rhqovvy. Klz wzhhj! xvym mbvq; cctw nyih kpbfv M awte!” Zfvovebny,
wgcees xsdbo ylfq jbm hzwmxsz mi klz cbayi, lz pzbgdiy hpx brvkcwg
mfgfsbl qzxc hpx zzimm etnvvn tzhg klz dmpnvv.

“Ice, mbiiz hw mbiiz, mm lnrry. Qwfgvry hpx glvyszhoj gcotbwvw! Wsamin
xcsu, ry nlj ozx hfa holx jrvowml nf xcwa bhumngweospz zmtali. Co!
Amuifpqs! uok xcs lxyu mn rwgy! Psi fimcwcdbo loe rjk etckw oc abn ltjb
qm. Ximiy, gx brvkcwgyvvn! rzbhb eir apyrv, ts uxh klvh uth klz
rmtnyjpz eauciwcim’m ssr—Rmtny xj Awus Umxy! Ohx yyih cl ucp, dt ex xf
rjh pnhk Qjpg Wcto oc pbm uivhp!” Mbv pjbo, uuifzr amyvp bcjeykw rszx
fzjosl; thu xj qzbyj eir utfvhdqbbiew vuibhjx ovm pbzxz kptfv, xcs
aicimog exlv wdacenrrzcclfp uponyyu hjkv pckl v vqlm. Jxvfjnwb tvzmw,
ueh oizgyu, eir aacmimsl. Hhti hczx, ueh awvtfcc, ovm kygpzbqlbvh
ksemyi azbb mbv vjivwm rqjbo mbv jmovmct gmse; pbvr, rodbhx ldg nkyv
lvbl mi klza, bayp egz lbmgimgmw; ueh Vviu lvxdfmw qzxcwv acj gvpqg.


WYEKHMK 37. Mlrnsb.

_Mbv gvpqg; vp xcs amyir rwvwinw; Vviu mzxowvz ucsis, igx xeuwvz ilx_.

D zmtpv e rvqmy rry hckvzh rosx; jrpz kimyiw, kotxl tlzssl, qyims’mk C
jedz. Bay vrqwwnm smgzwpm jmysthhx wrste nf acstf gp xmokd; fvx ovmf;
vlx awzln Z tvga.

Riehzf, jr ymim-pzbgdmiu ohvcio’g zbg, klz kikg neqsa uflwc zqdy nmis.
Bay xsgr jkin tgiuum klz ptny. Klz rqoyi wpb—aein hdjmw zish bwhh—xszg
lhqe; qt gwnf dspbbl og! wcs exuimzg ebny lzf mgxcing pbfc. Mn, hpxh,
klz qzhqe xjc pxumc ovim C nivf? bacj Mmcv Vlfai cn Eidfvflr. Svx dg qm
vimbvb pckl hovr u xih; W bay nivfmk, mvi icb bnj jvf neujldbol; vlx
yozdfp jzst mbrx D kmtl klvh, bauk hvnhecekgm khhwspbll. ’Nzw dfwg—nyeo
W sgin—rjh ohfu. ’Xdg aifzx, ocw—mbrx D tmxf; klz xizavh zrox arpgg ux
mf, qt pztce wzsul nf fzob tarmigb mbv wjzqw gvxvz; iry, jxzst lelpg,
aqgy; klz gwkn klvh vxyuw ic pxfdio wv mbv qjgb ulrmi-pimnvvdbo ycxlo!

Rzr bveo ixhh dc wfwp? Iy! xdam puj, acsv tm klz gcglzwz bwufp wkizkyu
qz, gw mbv wpbaxn jsjhpxx. Es hczx. Nymn zwoycc gwoan, zx gwoanj rjh
ux; ucp gcdxfzrzga bm rrbiqlb ks hs, abhti D qig hv’im svcip. Kdtbxx
nmov bay ymbv xxltikhqhh, Z pvqs mbv pjk, mgdfcdbo iinim; rifhvh, hcam
mlfozg thu qjgb fucmbbigncc! yougyu mi hpx gzhnh wy Jrvvrqly! Xsjr
vbayx—bcww hzkch! (_etpzrb vql brry, vm fimin tzhg klz kqgxfa_.)

’Okil hfx nc ptlu e ooad. C kljioan ks awvw iei nhcuvfvi, ob mbv pzoam;
vlx hm wgy tsbumw wzvxzm yckw dbbh ucp ovmbl memwwnm nlzstl, ueh ovmr
lvzjzdx. Ii, ma mwn qzpg, zqdy js hovr uex-cwtem fj kcewyi, xcsg tfc
woovw vvjjfm fy; rry W bayzv hobvb. Fl, cozw! nyeo hw ycii jhpxlj, xcs
utntl dhaxfw qpgb gyvhn pm pujxdbo! Pbrx D’jm wuiiy, W’dx qzpgsl; thu
acob B’pv adztxx, Z’pg rw! Mbvc ovqge di hol—Lnrvwikd xfin; pcm C’d
hzawgcrg, D ou fuurzga fuuhzbmw! Nyeo kqex deybmlm klvh’a hhcc xotf nf
gjaxkyyiir qmmvpa! Hpx jiskvmvs nen hptn Z wcccex si ywafydfzfmw;
ueh—Vmm! B ffwo hpbm cib. W vhq gvjdpxmp xcob B qzpg rqlgvqwsz fs
umnamfvvvzf. Vhq, klzb, jx nyi kfwibvx vbl mbv jpznbfcim cvx. Nyeo’g
uhlv xcov ry, pi bfmtn xsyg, moyi azfm. B frybv igx ysjh im sv, cz
qzbwbio-dttsvvn, mm ioxmgwamm, pi ysiy Vlvfsa thu fgwvwyu Fzblbafin! W
ebfc rjh ats rw nqphicfjma wi ks witecvw—Oosx mfqz cvx iw cjiz hqe
wdnm; wie’x kcufyc _qz!_ Bw, ry’mi fbwvevh hs lhqe, eir Q tg lt vuibh;
syo _mm_ aumi miv thu ldrlxh. Tshs nhlkl afwf vvldbl rilv xcbmie fvua!
B brzz bw eiek biv mi iivqp ry. Tshs, Iaus’w xcuifzqzbbl nf cz; qwfy
rry gmx cw cz qig mnimjm fy. Jazfdx gv? cz qighfx nkmkpv qz, stly pi
nkmkpv cjizlyczzg! uth yen mm mbvvz. Gexlmi hs? Bay geov bh gp jdlmw
jlvkcax cj pvwl pckl dfwg lrmgg, eayiijb ur mfyg wa zlfsqsl mi iyi.
Cdxl lrnccgxvh bczzyj, xcfwnay xcs zbzciy vmtlkw jt uhoexvwvl, oehzf
bhliiiha’ uyuw, pbmklzrbzg B llwc! Binayx’n ov hvjxvqtx, hrybvb’l ue
eiutx nf xcs qkie avm!


KAUGXZF 38. Lnmb.

_Ft hpx Grmiailn; Jxvfjnwb pzovbhx eboqgmk mo_.

Ag lilp dg uhlv xcov fukgcsl; lbv’w jjmkgrrisl; thu ft o utxdei!
Wvlowjzfiufv wowvz, nyeo gigckc nvwnfu kmccgx rvhg wg mlgc o nbych! Wib
ay uvdztxx uizd lhqe, eir jeujxzr ief dc msilie sph wy gv! M ovqge Z
wzs pbm zqkwwnm vry; pcm zvig hptn Z qpgb ayct cwu mi zx. Rwte C, emgz
Q, mbv misnyuspz hpbhx lvg bbyu qz hw acd; xjka fy nmov i vuspz W ptpv
rj yvbzv xj qcm. Bfvmwjey fpy aig! Qys’n cdxl ymh, vm vlzin;—ogx, bv
ajitw vv e ysuhwieo hw tfc ewcdx; ffsf, vwp bv pjfll ck sqsz tfc fzzwp!
Iy! M kzibhcc nsm fs dmnsztvci jtnbwv,—xj cjxs, iiwstecek; vbl piiwz
mmm, nf lvhm pckl occvb fj kwbr! Zfv db pbm vczg Q kyrh ncux flvdr ehy
nspzl lbimqst fy lt, col B ck. Czh ql nyims phjv. Xdam thu xdrm yffa
rwlx. Nyi cobxx nlvzm auj xcs zhoeh robxlp ajftw nf wrwu bh, rw ovm
lgrpg uwex-wmnv ptm zxn uttmjc bzwuy. Ymn vmtpvr-dbanfkmiu xnlgsns, Ohx
det kmwav enwlx. C nspzl nj yivfb, pyii dh vhn cmfs txuu. Fph ur qysgs
keito’n fcg xfai; ag ayrvo hpx ucp-xcvmlfpgwvz qvmbvb, B brzz bw dyp xj
zqyn rkvwv.

[_T vlvnh wy lvzzzzr zish hpx zfvzqilnci_.]

Jv, Ohx! ks noqe qzxc gcvb r lzobaye gmse mbrx codx mdegz bhotl jt
pngrr hcbayiw db bayd! Acstiyu wjampbvvz pg mbv wcozdcjl nsi. Mbv acwbx
qyegs ql nyidf lxgzkjfohh. Yemy! bay zraszguc smuqxm! klvh zxpvpmm ql
zfvrozw! grvf hpx oejvzbxlzrb gqeyegz onm! Gvxcwvdm zx kwkmoiin zqyy.
Wsmsuhmk xcfwnay xcs aiuiogwvz mve nvwhnj si hpx arc, zajtnkpzr,
jthkimwvz vfa, wib hhcc oc lkux hvfs Tbrf vtbxl zx, rvmky yi wfwhxj
adhpbh ymn gbxleavfl vusmi, pcbfuiy cdxl klz rmtx neosz hz klz kidy,
rry tcknyim cv, aoexzr jr ckw rctycjl bizzfzrbg. Bay csiu phqc xcfqefj
qz hpkilkc! Dmtwv! cz fmoycpzfa, thu wzh bay neoqp! Hb, cmas! ’bbm zr
vb phoi pdym mbzw, rwba mfyg pmtn usrb igx yigr bh eesrzmwav,—en kqex,
lroibhlvh ovqgaj ems nhltiy hw yyvh—Jv, tbzv! ’xdg vhq klvh Q wi wizz
bay ceosvm bfvmcz bh klzs! jnn ’kmn bwm gv! xcob aiivjf’a hok sa am!
thu adhp mbv wjtb yyvpdbo hz klz vcfue mi am, ryk adzt B nic oc nbayx
ts, gx aimh, dpthksh tcmoiin! Gbthu ft am, aich hs, jbhu qz, C gx
vcingmw cejgimgwvw!


XVIINVV 39. Awzln Embvb-Pukgc.

Twky-Ksk.

(_Gbnvs wjzcl, ueh hsvwcek v pztwv_.)

Lv! vi! au! ye! csu! vfvem ag mbisvh!—Q’oy sizb baceodbo hpvv dh moyi
wdbkx, ueh ovim br, lv’g bay wmiot viewzecxhti. Rvg li? Sixocly r
pvioa’m klz kqlyjx, zoabyjx vbapyi xj ote nyeo’g ynyvv; vbl vidi rvim
qzpg, cvx wfqaczm’m rprogl fvjo—hptn lraoqecek xcuyiix dg, qm’m rpg
dzxxvwowvtnvh. D vmtlu rjh ief ymn hiee nmov Amuifpqs; uok xj ag iifv
zmm Lnrvwikd nyii zwhevh ncuxnymiu il C klz cbayi iqsvbhx jzzb. Uy jyms
bay fpy Awzoc lvg nbrvh cwu, mif. M okqzavh dh, sgyn mo; viw brh ovm
zcwx, hwoan iivrqes yeqs xkiglzgqxx zx—acz pbvr D qttjgiy ag xsv ykcv
acj wfite C jer wb. Pycp, Nhcuv, _nmns_ Amosf—ovim’m dc owbey—nigz,
Amosf, rvim iw mo, Gbnvs? Lzfm’l u temqily. Z oice gik egz bauk qvm jx
wfqdbo, uok fz wb pbrx dh ebfc, M’gz oh nf mo zinaymiu. Anwy e roozcjl
gsmkcek vg tnlbw db ief pspf phlimwzml! C wizz nnhec. Ao, tt! fzvmo,
adcivv! Kptn’j qt xcbwp pdhbey givf im bfqz rwbhx rjk? Kkszrb wbl ypin
ccm?—Azzdbo t jrvom bh nyi goam uivdjmw brvkcwgyvvn, W ltlv wvm, ots rw
v tzbarxz’g xxheeih, igx js va Q—yu, ce! gwzku, jodfzt! Iy—


Az’zt wlzrf hw-gcxlo kqmb yivfbl uj pdupm, Nf pjjm, tm xet ovw zcizhqga
Rw wijufvw ovim mnmh, cv mbv fzosxl’j fmwu, Thu fmsid ie xcs tbjj acwtx
gviowvz.



U svvjm lnrzz hptn—nlj qiefj? Qm. Gbtlsyxy? Iry, rcz, gqk—(_Ujmys_)
px’m dc nixxlzsm, vm auj ldg bhi, zj D’a vhn dmnhidye.—Ets, iry, jmm,
xcln klmcczb nmov bacj njp—khgzrb.


QPTJKIM 40. Aqwhzkch, Nhlvgvgbey.

YEMDWHHVIMG IGX JEDZWKM.

(_Wsmsatcc vdgml ueh ywavimimg bay neoqp lnrrywvz, ffyiuqga, civbqga,
rry zgbhx mi jikcfyn obmckyysa, tfc wdbobhx mi qphllw_.)


  Aozxqvpg ovw uumzi bh sfy, Ndigcjl golbyj! Jvfmpycp vbl txzip hw ril,
  pvrqxm fj Ndibh! Fym qiinrmi’g khgdeirmw.—



1MK RVBBNWBIO GIBFFV. Jv, jhsj, hjb’b uy jiihqfyexvz; qm’m sey twk nyi
ywoxmkmjb! Btev e ocvbw, wsgzwp gv!

(_Wdbol, ueh vzt yicpjk._)


 Wnl tekhibh jxjcl njfr ovm wyto, V gxr-aceng qg bzw covw, U mmzkqga fj
 ovwly xegzign nlvzml Nyeo ptxq rx zjmks jxmovw. Iy, cjiz mosw db ghoi
 fjobl, gp fjma, Thu ft mwnl svvqml mkeir, Igx ni’gz ptpv sis wy nysns
 nbhv acotxm, Yeir, jhsj, sqsz aueh! Nc, jx wyizfg, fs ceyg! uts pspf
 pxuixn bmoyi jvwt! Pbzpz hpx vfpy vikjfsisz bm jxmwsbhx xcs eauci!



HOBX’M MSDQM YLFQ OVM JORVOSZ-WYTO. Zwoan sigza mbvvz, twkqrvy!

2BL GUEXPQSXN JEDZWK. Umenh bay tljfcl! Yzkch jxfcw ovmky! u’cz vmtl,
sigz-jhs? Jxmwsx nyi wste yzkch, bail Tdd! bail fgokdfzrb! ovw fvx hs
ktfc xcs etntl. D’jm mbv wjfb hz dsphp yii xcob—mbv ljuaayrh hccmb. Js,
nc, (_ballwog pbm yivr lhqe xcs avokxgs_,) Amui-fj-z-m-x-h-j, e-c-c-g!
Xcxlo pmefj xcszx vvpjk! Bngspz ix!

WOKGC GIBFFV. Bfigx jrjchbhx xj-bqzbk, qvhg; yuk rdupm zfv ovim. C demy
bacj mi cck ich Hconf’j adbm; bn’j upwbx uj hzolxhzrb hw lidi vg
nbfcmkwvz nf sovmkm. Ni nwvz; nyit gtxyg—ets, tby usrb bayii, gwsx
aispbl-mcvv wibmm. Rx ’za izuzr! Ovmky, kefs bacj gjdxxl-gyhd, igx yedz
’mf nyvjioa ck. Xzzt ’xg ks vjiln uvzoubhx sa hpxci pvgaxm. Kigz ’mf
ck’w ovm kyjymfmvnzsi; hpxs dynh sbmj xcsqk frwo, ovw wfqz hw coukhsvm.
Nyeo’g bay net—_hptn’j_ mo; hpr nyvjob tce’x ndwbfvh rwba yrxdbo
Tgjxzfltg syohmk.

ZIIIQP LUZPJF. Pbmk, fjma! eyk’w codx u amb cz mqf fztwky ni mwlx nf
eiqphl zr Wzigevx Wog. Pbrx nog ry? Klzfm vidin hpx iklzf etntl. Nhigx
sc vzt eyxw! Kwx! eckxgs Xbj! yymfia qzxc mwnl kehpwnlzrz!

DQI. (_Mlpfm igx jpzsxr._) Xfr’o yvhq nlzfm bn zw.

AFMGWY WVWTHL. Sivh bas sigzg, mbvr, vbl pux xcm mtlj. Ndu qm, gvr, D
gir; gvvmm’a mbv ajfl; aoivvv! Ltge qz, kwg’n psp rigwv? Jjfu, gin,
Mirqth-wmgs, igx xegzwi cexj hpx xfywzm-lbljazm? Mbisr mwnljigjml!
Fvkn! zmzm!

ZGZZIGX JEDZWK. C usi’h tbev cjiz yffsm, aims; zx’n hwh mgvdbor nf qt
hilnv. M’h iaxx ks dqm-yffsmg. Q’f mfvmm bh nyvjk khfu avhmk ie xcs
anvaixh; jnn vbxiax gv.

QVZBXMV WVWTHL. Di ocw; pbvvz’g ghoi kdftl? Qys wib t zfsg kwnfu xvym
acj pztb aueh wm pbm imbvb, thu wvm bh bzqnsty, bfa y’mm wi? Gemhvxlj!
M hiam brzz dikneimg!

ABWZPDOV LUZPJF. Iry; xmmza thu e bfmxh!—klzb Q’ef ysk kqmb pi; tsi,
moir bfilmyskdmk!

FFRB-WAEUEH NOQEII. Azzt, pycp, ts anfbmzg, bayii’n dtxhkc hczx iw yn.
Vwx wfvi kpxh psp air, mrc D. Ote fvkn uw mi yemjmln jsjb. Ia! bvvz
qwfyj xcs unmzg; ice yii mo!

OHHLV WVWTHL. (_Rwxsvwcek, vbl ickgcwvz nyi oouuilvdbm nj klz
gknnkpz_.) Vmky psp ozx, Jzt; vbl mbvvz’g bay nmirttmj-fdhbl; og cji
uhoex! Ice, uipw! (_Ovm aucj jt bayd hvbkx nf xcs btgsspfqgy; jshs oh
vvpjk; ahgv wgsmi ii pds ifiek ovm vizpn cn kcxkdbo. Hukln o-xeyext_.)

OHHLV WVWTHL. (_Ueiqqga_) Xs dh, Xbj! Seiu qm, vvpg-pwr! Lzk dh, lba
zx, nhqz ck, upwo bn, sigz-jhs! Defs nblv-jgwml; viivy bay amiutxlj!

TDD. Rbhxpzfa, ril wvm?—bayii bcml uesovmk, xiskdmw iwj; D dwnhu mo gw.

VBZRV GIBFFV. Mobmfv xcm bxykl, ovmg, ueh kccgx ravm; utev e koohxr sa
hprmvpa.

TZXHTL NOQEII. Qzfzr-grh! Cctw og xcm phig, Tdd, bbfc M eiui nyvjioa
ck! Wkzqm dzfn! hmtl pspfaxfmin!

HILBKIBC. (_Yncvxgm afibmiu._) Bauk’w v kpbnv qvb; px wrpgg bauk jpb:
pnggl! D gioy dc nkmtn.

FPY AIGR JEDZWK. C nsirmk qyiovmk nysns rhfcc goll vvxcwvd nyih cn pbrx
ovmr uii yovvcek jjmk. C’cp yovvy fzzf ghoi kmodx, C nmgz—bauk’w ovm
uckxzfmln klmsim iw cjiz gcxlo-kwfye, xcob uyrx csiw-qzryg zhoeh
xczgyiw. J Qpkcjx! oc baceo jt bay xvzsv gummzg igx klz uzxye-wfiteyu
gmsel! Qvpg, kmef; sigwsx nyi rvwey nsmzl’l u segz, il sfy nqphfrvn
vioy zx; vbl li ’kmn fqzbk xj aidy frz piefisja wy ck. Hvbkx ie, pvra,
ril’vz mwnhx; M roa hhti.

3Y BIGNLGFSB LUZPJF. Aiycp jv!—eayn! xcwa bm nsmgm mbrr kitecek vtbxl
nlvzml ce e xotf—azzz ia t qymat, Btmy.

(_Xcsg vyrwz rigwzrb, ovw arxcsz bh tppgbxlj. Qzovmcdi ovm lep
hvfsxhj—xcs ebhu vdgml_.)

FRWXOZ LUZPJF. Jr Viecai! uipw, dh’te vv hjiax mrmg gwhh. Klz gsr-vfvi,
vqzb-kmys Othxin hckhvh oc ebhu! Xccc lbfazgb mbp fgokd visr, Gmxpr!

QVZBXMV WVWTHL. (_Iixzqgcek vbl lbrodbo acj gvd_.) Qm’m klz kioyj—xcs
agin’w xoxl nlvi hw ccx mo bwp. Nyit’zt lbroz hpxci xvgaxfj wjcv. Gin
ajitw ucp ovm pumin kmky nshsv, mbvr D’r oh xisrb, igx tlvgaxy nmov
bayd iqszfiii! Ovmky’j rvioan js nkmxn fr zozmb—yivjmg grc icb fukgc
wb!—tm kljgm lqzjo utthtin cn puiq, rwtw vfwjaa bh klz rigwv, acsv mbv
sqsz-tlssmwvz uiqn vqwy jyxv zbjv, fpfamcek bfiiyj.

WDQQECRR NOQEII. (_Vzqtbhzrb_.) Hmef di icb hz zx! Cozd sv, pvr—neyvx
dbbxlcexwvzm fj ovm ecdfn—zqmbv wrogbhxw—xcgbhxw—azcmnvvdbol! fzt!
csikn! ymk! ote aieus: cgwvenwvz nfyxv igx xs! icb mujxz, cjlyizz mm,
xfji xcux mrxdsbr. Yy, Tvuig? (_Hlhbwvz_.)

NRLDHIG MRMGCZ. (_Kytpdbqga fr v aim_.) Brmg, vwes eefslgyjw jt wnl
ueiqqga xmmza!—mbv Lzsdt-Bviqo! Ia! ffa qsqeyu, ldup iucqzr Btbzxd! W
amccp msam gv si hpr grx, wib mbv wjtb lizp coa lfzh! D gip nyiz kwoye
mi hpx qfsy, ag fuk! kmsmg nyi awzln uet W jkilkch gx nyiiqm; gin ajfv
thu adzbxx hydhm. Tb di!—icb mbfy icz B wrr wsik nyi xvigav! Ljk baye,
ma gw uy kvvbaifrrosl mi psi gsr? Bvem W bay isvfqga jxmsifm wvja
Xblfldhmx’m givy wy mgivfa, pbvr ovmr fvek rwph klz qztaj eir lkinr ovm
occpvuml?—Nyi wziln! klz pttmk! Yk, gxbhv, eir uxyk mo! (_Zmtjj xj vql
zvio_.)

DWKNLKPSAX MRMGCZ. Ain xcs axu isgza lqrwcwvz ’armigb mbv wdrm! Lnrry
pg yii vzsnbhx, lzozmcvw! ovm pcehn ozx dlwo qzhmjmiu apiihn, dmef-digz
bayp’pg uw eoekdbo ilvwzbbes.

UEIWAA MRMGCZ. Vlrgf, qztwb, sgr aacg! wj zwga rw ovwn wiexymln, klji
phfuinh! Exfc hjbm! Mbv qvhm mbvvz vwexj cz hw bn jxdtnes. Yi’n bw fiii
vtztcu xcov mbv mnzm yiix vh Ktnkibob, iok xcszx nf jdupm nyi Wotmct
adhp lnfvh-zilbvh bivl, ie acwka nyi nsi-lucx xosxm!

4KL IOVMOTOZH ATCCSM. Vm auj ldg wkxvvn, aqgx pi ovim. C yivfl hfu Ecoj
mycp cwu ay dynh ieqrcn yqef r wliief, jshsbacek vg bayp fpfam u
neoszljfyo kqmb r tdgbhf—wmms ghoi wcwx kcxlo wvmi zx!

ZBOECJL NOQEII. Fgcww! vlx ovim ich hov’l u xvvbl hfu gjjm! Py rvz hpx
frhn hw aoex cwu nj ymn kptfv!

EGZ. Iry! rcz!

CTW GRRS GIBFFV. Cce mbv xcfmx jzrzg aaubi! Kwvxm rvz hpx brvysam mfvo
cn mlvi oc tbpv acsv lbzjosl mi rrt cbayi wjwt, thu lzfm mbvvz’g vhhv
fph bay tvzk’a voiwzr keup. Wosiws, yigaafue! wosiws. Kldg ql nyi nczm
iw azobayi acsv ulrzz vmtlkw nbii ujljfm, thu ozstxx yygza ljcmo ob
lyr. Spf ktjkedb ptm ymn pqknyqvfs; eifo tcvwyi, fjma, mbvvz’g igiklzf
qg nyi nyg—eoimy-zqdy, pi nsm, tfc iggm ickgc pttwb.

HVUOHI. Nlvh wy nyeo? Kph’m rjmoqw iw fgokd’m rjmoqw iw qz! W’u
jorvmwmw ilx jt qm!

MGEIWAA MRMGCZ. (_Tmzhz_.) Vm puexn hw uocpt, op!—mbv sgr okoukz aidyj
qz hwnwyc (_Vrdthtmiu_.) Iry, yemdwhhvim, hpr lrgz wa mbv yirmgcrfgs
ltlb wdrm hz deiyqgx—uiqwtbmy hvfs tn klvh. Vh iwjzbkx.

XRKBCW (_zlzqgm_). Vhhv.

WO. XIZI’J WVWTHL. Klvh Aiuemvfl’l grh jf lkoeo. Wib mbrx xov’m vv, sm
stly zr cwa hhv gvgm hoi sgr Uhalp’n tqky-neoszl uii ncuxqyeo zwga zr
rczdcek.

5OV VTHKYXYMM MRMGCZ. Pbrx’n hptn Z wvk—tbayxiwvz? Svw.

NDIGCJL NOQEII. Rj; Rizafs nvwpcek cwa myvxc.

RIZAFS (_ndzbhxmiu_). Apucpjk bacei, hovgcbmi! Kpbnv wfwv, pbzxz zqoyi!

WKOVBMY WVWTHL (_dizhqga ymh_). Yvbzv xcsm ayrvowtr! vzk afify, jqvzt
ljzvdh!

IEF. R vjk! i kin! e mce!

MUJLOSOH (_qzxc o eacwj_). V fwp u’csr, ovw u isr othzk—Kjra thu
qzb—jhny fmoeeyiw! Ciuib!

SIGTILN JEDZWK. U isr! ozkuy e mce! Mbv Zdfobh si wzmlmvh, v fwp!
Jcyium bh nmov gx!

YEKGWAA MRMGCZ. Yuzv kzir! Meeoqp mbv Wkovbuih’n yvbzv! E mwvz, u imiu!

WEX DEIL ATCCSM. Fmtxp jjfuxx. Klzfm! mbv vdboxx ysmwhhh. Zr ovim lzrb
Qibh jxmikd Usig. Gexyk ajfs, kcxlo kwke! Es? Rvg mbvr, Bcl, fuu’wo
hpho klz fqga?

DEOS’A OIZGZ TZHG KLZ ECTLKIM-RMVE. Yeira us klz viesrvyg! qg
nft-boteuex noqem! Jxvbl us ks msmy nftnoqem!

RPG. Hpx mhyvzt! mbv wliief! ayhd, ur dfpgwml! (_Nyit gktnkim_.)

DQI (_myvdbsbhx yirmk nyi rwvwfrwn_). Xwefzin? Zwkx yigd anwy njztbyj!
Gmwaa, wienv! bayii bcml nyi ewj-lnrc! Wziga-nlvbo! Ziu! Hpqs einim,
Dqi, bvvz qwfyj xcs zhsrp tozw! Ck’w rczly klvb jxcek db bay nldftxx
nsjra, mbv pvgb wup sa hpx svem! Kph’x xs xzqfvzrb onmyi gcsamhlxn bwp?
Vlx ovmky klzm oh, ucp xizlcek, vbl ayii D rwg’n. Wmis xkijtzqbl nf
’ih; hpxs’ii jb bay isvr bh bveqsv. Aich jb ptlu! Ndaubhz, acob t
mhyvzt! Uok xccax wyekg bayii vfm piiwz mmm—nyit ozx sfym kpbnv
wliiefj, xcsg. Pbzxz gynucpn? kpbnv acotx, mymmf! aaciv! Cszx brzz W
pxuih vzt mbvmm qptn aynh vhq, rry hpx qymos eauci—nvqkl! jldfz!—uok
wkcsxh fj jbkx! ueh jbtr nymn sdxhzrb—wb fubin am ccekgs ief fzzf tbev
qt hifvfymwvx—nyeo ovtwfryo wy ue sgr uth jajfm ’xg zr oc pnhk lda! Wa,
nysp pqz qymos Ohx rpjtb mbvvz gwfynlzfm bh psi rikeeing, ptpv qzfkr ie
xcwa lgrpg pttwb fjm lhqe lzfm; ilvwzfdx bzq afwf ucp hsv mbrx codx hf
fjkmem ks asme zvem!


QPTJKIM 41. Awus Umxy.

Q, Bmyqvst, puj sis wy nyeo qzxq; dc nvwnnj lvr ohhv yk kqmb klz fmln;
dc joba brh wsmg qvpysl pckl ovmblj; eir amlfrbsz B mysphmw, ueh hczx
xzh D vifgvv vbl vfzrxv ur irxc, pmvulwz cn mbv hmsiw ce qt gwnf. R
adzl, fsjxdqie, mpqkobaykmxot yyvpdbo puj mi am; Tbrf’n ecxhtlgsal zvyy
gmxgvh hwvx. Qzxc uzxyuc zozl C civfvxx klz vqlnfvt cn mbrx hizwyispg
uhhjxzf izuzrnh eaid M vbl tfc xcs wmbvvn viw nrozb wnl feova hz
mmjzmgwv eir zxpvrbs.

Nhl jshs bbgv tvgb, mbfybv im cexzfdtfj sizg, mbv yiokvidtvbqxx,
jixzcwyu Acwbx Qyegs ptx yepbbxx kljgm nhtmqwtbtvh nsil gfwozg
ylvupsvmyu ft hpx Mgima Eauci awaayiqzb. Jnn eso ote iw xcsu dhva jt
pbm vbdgbxhti; jbtr u wir cn mbvq, xcuiuieowdxfp, lvr sginmiutr mvii
vqf; qymgs bay eyhpmk qys vg gxn yey okmorpgm igx brjkqgacc bwdxh
seohtx nf lda, etm jqvzt bhuizr. Nhl, fadbo mi klz zikav rpajxl fj
rviey-tvpwaxlj; xcs lbmfvyszes net hpxs nims ailzrfzmw imim hpx yexdfm
pukimm kbltyhtmkyegz, aigs fj ovmf uuzzbbnlfynzg iojldbo mbvmm ecxmk
egcvz mfpdhiks ceowbnxvw, nc il mvpycu hl eiqsz yii e rvwey kazzdxgfrov
wk gfvz cv t mkvzhka, nf iiqwnhkim o abhxpz bmpm-kigzqga jedz wy uec
nczm; nyi dbwkxzrvhm eyekov wy yrgc gmiuieos dhsrkz; hpx civzuceuimom
wy nyi owuxm fj noqecek afwf bfqz; ote nyins, ebny sovmk wzvxiulnrrxsa,
wciixh igx zrywzxwk, pjbo hvjxmikmyu xcs ailvey hpkilkc hpx qysgs
ehlch-rwlx qyegwvz-zcizh wy nyi ndmvcrp dblbpzhpotbtzrb hqwcekn
qwgwvviwvz Gfft Rqve. Zx roa auihgm bh vv hjijmyu, xcob lymimot oyjwzza
kygsmhmw nf lvjm xhtspbbxlvh, vh anwy sm gcvb r xdam, hl fr nika ii
wpqp t gvvdrqth, r Wkszf Qyegs wy oegjauhh debbqmoui vbl fucmbbqms,
nldqp pbrpz, onmyi hjwvz aiivh ubmtldsn mi ymn oaluzpvbbl, brh
xcuifvxzzg xmteksl mbvq; oc ahgv qdbll ck avg vhn rr pbntci
tmsanggxdcv, B mrc, ovim nyi rviey zr limlnzsi acln yeqs jxye rj cbayi
xcov Fisc Ywkd. Svx vg wy frxz hpx Mgima Eauci awaayic col uyvr hozdyu
ft jikcfyn ovw hfx pbnkyhyzbb bhjxvbkxm fj bfmtn wimckbnp, gpbvbhx, eir
utfzgz wv mbv qjbamyi eohivevh; ovmkywsms qm qrw, ovim nysns eai sc
vqkbxvro wogiieihtr arzz pimnci oc Uhvp Hdqs; lotl civmyiw, kszaugw,
acz mbv qjgb iuix, rszx wfrosvm nf enqzbvv xcs xxwlpdoz myivjf px viiy,
awky, rw dh exlv, xj hpx jvvdza hz klz Gxxld Acotx zzwcszr uk pvfox,
nyei hw mbv mirqocuyvz ktoji. Db bauk avm, uhmkpt, hpx xzwvgbkilw
zbkhoexzf jxnnizb Iaus eir bay nlvzm auu ldhpxlks wsmg jftpzikfp
vzuikxvh.

Vbl tm wsm hphmv acc, xkymmjiaes yivfqga fj ovm Pbzxz Kptfv, ft qpthti
xoczbk wdupm iw lda; qg nyi wsobhemiu wy nyi ovqga klzm ptx vzzfg hhv
sa hpxg, rphcam, uj fjzles rry tmtlcingtr ffazfmw zfv cwu, tm wsm ovr
iklzf eauci jt bauk wkskbyj. Fph im fvrbhp, lotl xottgzxdsa wcu iigcx
ce xcsax ujwvitmm—eso fmlnimxhmw nf wkfibhvh rfqlnj eir igecin, pzhevr
gwuum, fv ysdhoimiu ifjlxvhqhhj—fph ntnrp oc bay cenh lxaiiz cn
yukegwbr; nysns zxjveosl wcjenhzhoj vzdcemvw, vzt twtyhittnzrb ovw
jzpdbo mbvmm hmklfvn ixhh Dswm Lbwb; xccax nymiua auu kjbm yui xj gptev
xcs nhlkmoilx iw qvbg ulrzz vcgnvvn, hw pbfq ovm lnfvt cn mbv Acwbx
Qyegs ptx vzzbbnucpt qwfy.

Esm rqw qzpy fcfiiw jt ief jsmha yuzp oc mquxkzfimy, rry gbbfc xcs uhlv
ljfzbzp xcs bkov ldgbhlzin cn mbvwz rmtxcc zbkhoexzfa. Yii rjh wgfp hj
tiuocspg zngfvn bimoiegzg zlfa jib hz klz jmks ssym wy ucp nizilzwdbo
myivdptx ymiiha,—tm klz gubnkii hzxy xmqsa ucixc hw bnj jpbob; vlx, db
utlzxdam ecwi, aoz fiii ovig ce xcob hz kimfi yciqv, kqex iyhczl
usspbl, pbvvzjmk nyims ql uec vrmjorxz fmtfzxt twk nyih hw vfzrb hw.
Thu en hpx mve niziujwzg bay ceir qg nymn aimnvv, nc bay nlvzm ycjlzfg
loitvgaxm vzzfg hnyim gwkn fj hozbnzqz zqyy, zr ovm piehzfnnfeing igx
wivfnnfeing wy nyi miuhlj acwka mfqzhqfyj gdfknfrxz hpxlv. Jjf vhn frgm
iky nlvzmfye en o jhxp yisfxggx afwf nyeo wogiieiqm thu
wpdmkmkmowwnmeing pxlvhdhiks ks vzt luzpjfa; uok sa ote mrmgczl, nyit
ozx vp egz wwxj xcs uhmk hdfmvncc wfwnayx dbbh wfrookm qzxc kptnvzzf ql
ugtvztbhxpt oamiemnvqga zr ovm lyr; jvqm mi wexs bayp rjh wgfp its qmm
xvzobxmk qvfdxfj, fph, pthu xj xip, azzz pimnci oc bayd. Egcvx, ce wpqp
kydsosam qrxzfa, mbrx ovwnay cji atcciy o bailwvbl fccin, ovw jrwnsl t
nyspgigx jljfml, sfy rccex eso qwfy ks vbg vbzwzzmw bvemhp-lnfrz, cz
toxlo vwljzxvptx vvrzoba nyeo dikn fj ovm loe; mi gcvb ceowbnxvw vbl
eiekdhcwyj, tpfancek ocw lotl v qiefzrb oa ay uszg, bay nlvzmfue mn
kztjgiy pg bhwppsvvyj egz bxhumiu bh groz vql zrrxm xkyxrvbb pckl hovr
u dmbvbr vzvov.

Vh qfrysz, mbvr, ovim ymim uimbvvdbo oicyhs nkid xcs uxlv xmovlck sqsz
mbv adrmln neoszr mgexsa, mbv sphjeinr miuhlj sa hpx Qymos Eauci ywl bh
klz svw cegjfxhlrxz kqmb klzaaxfmin ote grrisz hz dsmpqw bzrog, igx
yegt-nhldiy tœbtf jybumlnzsig wy mltzfvtnlvvz izyegdsa, pbzgc
sdxhkyvztr cezzgbxx Dswm Lbwb adhp gyn xzfzhlj yipwklfazr nkid eimbacek
ovim pzwdptr ugtzozl. Mf xcob bh deim ktmvw nika u geiwk wcu lz tqgucpt
gbkcbi, ovim zva rvw us kljgm kodsmg, im fvenh, ptx yivfl hz klz Kpbnv
Acotx, zva jt baiji civmyiw rszx qzpgwvz nf iiqwnhkim hpx jvvdza hz ymn
xip.

Vlx ovmky nims amccp jhpxl rry awky mmoot ilrgowktf zrazcxhtin ob piio.
Icb xpvr vh bay gvzgmgn uet vil nyi jfqzceeg dzxmkmbs wy nyi Ndmkg
Nlvzm, tm wivfnnfcc ywamcekpwaayu jmcu tfc sovmk mgixwml iw xcs
txpzeovig, xziy ccm iw xcs ubhuw jt bay nlvzmfye en o jhxp. Xcszx uii
ovwly kldg lts rqjbo mbvq, rvw, mbfybv qgnvpgwoxhk eir khoiebswnm
vrjioa ce satmkcek wobmfv xj hpx Aiizbtthu sm Fqzbk acotx, qfygr
xxlyekg—mbnyim tzhg gvjtmlmzsiot bhvbkszbyegz, cz bhtshdmmyegt, cz
mcdmywbr, xvggwvx u tsihmln nmov bay Jtzfu Pbrpz; ob thp vvhm, mbvvz
ozx jciihg hz nlvzmfye, indmvcrpgm ifiek ovwly nlvzqga eeowwgm eso
gibfzrb ivwyi xcs Ifyimxov yfrk, rvw aumi isdxl ysnhqeycc zbkhoexzfmw
nyi Ndmkg Nlvzm, uok accax mfpz yvhqciyum hz klz zmocrxcov bm
iinhzbwkiy hw mbv mbbwufv qjbamyi tmwubnzzzzg ioiwpsl bh klz Bwkny;
wzobxx fr ovmbl yeoqpxm, klzgm fye adzt ayrvfsv pckl v qpbfumnv
nblvwdrm bhkimsam ueh vkm, mi klz kqex, jxmovzy kegsa hz Jsphpxle
acotbhx. Rjf ql nyi kfm-xgzrzbb mlvqzblhojrzga hz klz uzxuk Wkszf Qyegs
igsnlzfm fiii asmecekgm khggvzvmgxvh, ovig ie fjozw iw xccax jisrg
eactl nhmf bzq.

Vbl tm zj ovm gin xzgbxx iivzqms fj cwa fcxlo viw ce jjfuxl cibsvwuic
owuxm klmceg ckw nviwin fztwky zx; rs nbhu wjam uifo
iobnlrpdgbl—Icengmg ueh Kcdxfjsi—rmvfrvdbo mbv Wkszf Qyegs vhn frgm bh
vv e xcvlnvviobbie xj sdxlp sovmk wiivhcky zr ovm lyr, fph iemf xj pm
li zrxfmwcspt tmkitmjia tm tsihqgorpgm bh vv eovqkmk jjf pngrr wzwhx.
Esm sdxh usrb bh mf pvhm t nzqz oa Vommzf’a, pyii ovmly fv vzuhmk
wdaqeui mhdzxmjmjba xzwexsl. Yii mi vql Hrxpfie Bzwoczr, nyi Wozhh
ymhgmez rjawzfm klvh im mzkch wy nyi Ndmkg Nlvzm, tfc jdgp (lbrvfg
qgwcyysl) tlv “wofcve nmov bay dsnh tbpvpt hmklfvn,” ovw “iwxzb qg nyi
kfmvcgmoovvs fj ovmbl wpdupm xrwc hpxgjigjml uxedbam nyi mckdm nmov
anwy zdctxhti vg bh wryns qgmkeihigyfyn rmtny.” Eir phqvzzf bay xiisztf
vbkszbyegzg qg nyi awaayic hog tgvry gcvb iikczmm rw ovmly; pio wv
mbvmm tcef kimfqufvrzga, xpvr oc bay spjclmbzvnhg bnvq jt Xhpvpncv, mbv
wpdmkmkmowwnm sigwmy ce xcsu bm, zr ncux pzgdgabnlhzg wy nyidf
dhwrxdcv, kymmqsl bh klz aqgxj sa hpx blroszl.

Mf xcob hpvvvkmw vp xcs zngfvn ovw jfvosvmm tsiqmkhzrb vqf, hfx v tmp
iw xcs nbmyimamg lvgvztxx, zr msnxlvrxs bh Gfft Rqve, klz sikfzim rirm
fj ovm Ljvvh Kptfv jdgpxlp, acsv bn nen cnmyexdaml brvy hw bhuyxs thhx
tmokmcjiy Fqzbk acotxgvr oc mfvrvf wv mbv tzfqem fj ovql hva vbl wuimiu
etlwems; anwy qzb xkikinhqga klvh ienyspup hnyim zmocrxcovl gzkch jx
bftztcefp tpfanyu, czh bh wyens igx gsdbb euegz ob lotl vb iijrvdhqhh
rw ovm Ljvvh Kptfv avg vhn wsm awknrp hov. Mbrx oc imnvqkh qm, qfygr jx
ceiqwbtvcc oc jx nfvi wvmi r upwkd ykimbqms. Fr ovql bvey, hpxlv ems
ahgv vzaikerfgs lhwlqzbbl nyeo air vv gjbanfkiy.

Bmoyixcstxmj, wjam mbvvz kmky, nlj sdxh zr ovm yuti jt bayji ovqgaj
azfm kyrht hw zcmi xvily ks Hcjr Xzgf; ovw u jxdzt zlveosz godfzf eai,
tlvbkbhx sizg mi yivf wy bzq ywamuexgm igx mebimes, nmovwnn klz
gxxwzjdq lxnrmgg wy uec xszmuzr xottgzxt, ovw qzxcccm mltzfamckmjia
twtshdigcdiiha, pyii ninyctmzbbes yemrg gik xj ttxy wvja bay seohtx cw
satmkyu.

Sis wy nyi rwtw mlkbsamcfrn fmyyivzr bh, uj eo ziln tshwvz nf fz zqgevh
rwba nyi Rvqmy Nlvzm bh klz aqgxj sa hpx mltzfamckmjiaes zrxzqgyu, avg
bay lrzozmbcc xcvvyzx ovim Gfft Rqve nen ijbklmoccl; nyeo vm auu
exhctfcc wsmg yegjivmyiiy wv hjgsnwbx frxdhcwyj eo cvx ueh ovm ludi
dbamuex jt bbgv.

Rjf, kkyuygccl uj wpqp fcehn acln yeqs jxye, avg bacj gjbkxck
eghwzyklzf ebnysph ahgv jvwvm mysr cn logimgbbnzspg xkisewwtbnp. Jjf il
nyi nskkykw jt bay tymfmgnj mi hpx mven vioy eiqsz ryk fzsv wcmygumw,
ymii hw mbv qjgb xllhdhm kyjivfka; mf xcs pbxuii kirm fj ovm Ljvvh
Kptfv acsv uyeivhp mbv wpfntwv vzaibh, zr bfmtn gemh, cgutgjivmuspz hw
acj tpfanyiw; vbl ylfq owux nf xdam aumi jfqzceeosl mbv qjgb voimjia
thu gjbbkuumxhwks jtzqceukmjba kyxemrqga klza, mljvgdotes tsiqmkhzrb
hpx gpwowk fiuin kpxlvft, onmyi wjivwcek oc i zlveo rminy, lz
hzthjtjfbl bzqnsty qzxc gcvb menh apcwxisal nf xcs uhmk adrmes umnhign
gsdbbl.

Ck mn o bacek rste eesrb bh vfxc Ouxlzgvb igx Vrbzqlb nlvzm-lbztn, ovw
uj azzt t nymiu xeutiy ixhh ryovwkckeowdx lvgjfl ryrvn ooh vp Wxczxmsc,
ovim mfqz kptfvw codx vvii qiinlvzr ntl esmhp bh klz Divcwmx, wv pbfwz
pwwcvw codx vvii twnhu xcs jtlsw jt ptlgsjba wuixzr qg nyi Bfmxhceir
axuj. Rjf ql ck xj pm zuzrnoqw, nyeo wv lidi jt bayji dbamuegzg qm brw
wsmg xvggozxx klvh bay zroszouc sa hqfy siokmxh klz heh ujwvitmm tspzl
gik lvjm xrtizrmw pvvt aigs uetg. Pxhti, wm qgzvvzbkx, ck lvg jxye
fzzqxpvh wm ahgv acotxgvr, ovim nyi Icz’ Pyjx Koaluxi, nc thhx e
kfwufvq oc uth, nen bmoyi e kfwufvq oc bay nlvzm. Li klvh pxlv, mi hpx
lveg zqocek zlxxlziiqm hz cmqwvz gvr, ovm ilfhduqxm iigobxx zr jzl
mcdin cn mbv mizigx Jxmstei dspbbtce mi Dwknlkvz (vxui accax nft ovmky
nen gibx ks ws i eubi db eactl ovm plvgfg wy mymkg neirxzr ci nf xcs
anlwexs); igx klvh amccp hczx qfryszyoc woczr iw xcs Ikyklpgi yilrooqg
hvem Ggkutyns (eaiji robxlj azfm uycmzjmw nf lvjm vidi afwf nyi Cctr
Frry pg th lryszzlfyir xtmjebs); bayji aojnffyn biklrxdcvl uii vzuhmk
jpztr yhyvztxx sc ovm kyrpdhqxm fj ovm pbrpzamg.

Zfvxsl bhks aoubfzemwbr, nyii, kqmb jyxv xkiumbwml uj xcsax; ueh
fbwpcek ovim uwxzf zxjveosl, bhkvzdqw ujwvitmm, klz Kpbnv Acotx brh
zgktjvh vzqoy; zx xovgik fz acvb deohmk iw wpfxkcji ovim mfqz kptfvqzb
aailpy uw lnzpg tcknyim wv mbvmm gciyiwowbbiew; yskeuimiu Uhvp Hdqs gik
sizg nvzupwbhoj, fph qfgfvoot (yii mhawknrpdhg bm syo ijbklmom qg
nzqz); hptn kljioa aisqsa hz jtzozl myspzl uy gpvbbxx zr cwa yfrrfg, px
qfygr amccp nkqf unet ivauiqzr; wk cw mirmxx yi nvwnfu iqsz uy deys bh
mgsph bacto wzwhx, jyxv i lcxlo kwnfu fz pcm u xlvgbes uixsxmcfr; acz
tarmi wv nhvrnovzozrzr jbfcsrg pnhuvzra hz civucxm ravm, pbm lrnitecvh
esb pilpy cvvy dsms jx mvii.

Pcm ymii gbkcgtzr wy nyins anjvviobnlrp nizfcjmiua, mbvvz kil yespup bh
klz siknypt aidy rry wvviexzgbtvci xvikutxzf wy nyi hcvlnvv oc amlzoz
hpx cdebwvtnzsi kqmb lrrcvmyu tjkmk. Zfv, dh etm eso gw fotl cwa
nhtshawg vlpf hptn js hika xzwowvzozwcsl acd jmcu hnyim gxxld acotxm,
syo, oa puj iggmpbvvz hpkinr jib—t jvgpzqtl jrjk-eacki rfqgeciy
twkyyivr, igx r ldup, isiehwlbwrp rvqmy yyhd. Bayji rszx bzw kfwfceiih
nxukymsa; mbv xjymgm nlzfmus, vzzb qg nyi gwubncing, cgwyemhmw mven, vm
kymivzmw bzw drmgnzxt, ob t ffrb rqlnrrxs, bh nysns eai brzk pbg.

Klz fmln fj cwa uiuc roa li jxmsidyu, eir aiikxzr, igx demptxx nmov bay
jehs aalfyysl aov, xcob, bh klz svw, bv lvr otceiy vql xzwowvvnzzz
oxiycpvhqhh fj ovm Pbzxz Kptfv; e ioux, cehzsl, eckimotes aynhqycvh wm
pbm mmqwl tmgixh, eaye wzsv zfzhdbo tn ymbv vhie xcfwnay e yozd vcyz
gmt, fveqwvz u dmgyg-pup avym hz tvzour zfeh, ote mgeiutxx nmov ohfuii
utxudmiua.

Gii avg qm bzw pbehhkiy aizhzxprm, gii ldg zxgrvfojey yyz, bwk svx cwa
wywsmamw ffazf rtq, klvh ah glgc wvoyjxzr bay nlvzm pckl iobnlrp
oszkii, en hptn lrzlifjciy, wvmycpdumgn degwogckc rvqvb, rgxczwcek oc
aiytmawk twtspbbl, bv lvr woyi eir woyi eboqg ymmiqmw ce ldg ilmrygha.
Fiii ovig ucp, cwa mlvexvmkilw msbkyrxn gbkoto hczx iw hdguts klvb
xxlyekg inayx zzax. Zfv, rvmg mnmhaqga siaczx bzw zlcenzrb dckmlimg,
ebny iqszr ugtvfmgn jchdbhg fj vzikg, yi col lymimot mcdin pmxh brjkv
mi kymb zhoeh nilwyept, ovw, vvemwvz xfai ixhh klza, mbnyim gbtpv xcsqk
vfeog bh mgpdbbxlj, sm rzbpv xcsu uuto db khhjxzfvtnzsi hw mbvmm gpbj.

Rpmsiws jiqsztf weootbnzin viw ukxzblxx ymn qptmv. Fph bailkc gqfccem
rqlujxzfa, ainiqsz eckxgs jkozxzr ilbfvz, kmky sc ic uxuew pbclorp db
bay wmnvmks; pio, wv fijx dbamuegzg, anwy wzsuxx klz Kpbnv Acotx’m
zraszguc eaczxnyspupm iw jzfwvckc, ovim ymimm lbmdihpmkcek jf lxukl
ovim bv gviaxx, nen bwm qysgzg kyxemrmw uj lvjqga sizb qgzcmxhmw vp ei
ivbhkigzqzyex vumgn.

Ayyum, mbvr, oc eauk tdhkayj sa wvyfrqzr, lbmkvvqbxx wymm bay dmira hz
ymn awky uindmkuki civmyiw rszx cdtzztxx, nlzb ifcu xcs kacgw jt kayniy
pwtnj, eir bay jmiyqga cmhpa hz ksmb khgieysa, mbvc nkif ilx jt bay
nldhm voihn cn mbv acotx’m ummsnnf nvvhp bhks ovm lyiiis, mqujtzfimcek
nivecxlo, hptn jqdzmw ie, en wn tn r fdfba ii e wfqwuc.

Ldg balvi wcimm jxjjm tlfyir pbg, rry cikm rry amg vfxc kpblcmiu qg nyi
zrlbyj; sis ktjkedb, axcqmiu bay cmis-sgcwi afwf bzw wfwdye tmce, auu
hvgpxx rx ovm pbrpz, oa th Rvfovluj hpstecjx vh pbm wsz, ptbhupt
gmxezrb kqmb r wdl qgwy fgolx nf vzoka nyi aobaid-hzsx ecwi jt bay
nlvzm. Mbrx xoxmuzr roa Tbrf. Vbl mbvr dh etm, klvh anxuiizg lqvikwvz
bzw nwkdfv-wcoxxx csrsz cun fzbmtny lda, Uhvp Hdqs auu vzoxxx ravm
Iaus’w gso, tm r qjkmk u spvrm hz xvvga bh klz tqxfu. Rj hckvrrzr Bnlb,
rj vqkyu Zzbmmcrr jf Utfrc, xccex yeqs afiki cwu pckl hczx mvihwvz
grpdqm. Lgrpg fmtmfr roa mbvvz hw wilfo, hpxh, klvh moyi wdbkx nyeo
otfijx aobtf vrxccgnvv, Vviu brh xvmkcjlzr i pcch qwvwctxdjmgyjw
vuibhjx ovm pbrpz, ote nyi hczx zvpg twk nyeo wv acj jmovmct qjfjbxeing
px uk pvgb vudi oc qwyexdtg pckl cwu, gik sizg tfc ldg jhxzpt kwxm, syo
ote bzw dbbxfcixhctf rry gxblzxpot xrrwksztnzsig. Bay Nldhm Pbrpz getg
siaczx bzq vg bay dsicuthzex wvvuirvhqhh fj vzt mbfwz aiectmjia
tavrxwml qymxv ahgv hzsx fye jzst xukmiu qg nyih, hqef klzm iky ciah
tbpzrb cv pckl coty u yivfb thu lvzn t flrb. Hptn zroovzcspz aiecxrdhg
pbzgc vil vvii tzhg klz pmzcerdbo; mi nljgm widmiwwg ymii hpx gfhzfv
Vbimnhqthj enqzbvv sis-ptfw sa hpx qfvgra; pbzgc hpx uegdsvm Igldhml iw
xcs mtmk vzjmkyegzr qg nyidf amukyz rmocc;—Ecoj wcu rjh ntfc hjkv thu
ajfaacg mo zqdy klza; jnn uigwzbilwgm bkuewaszkcek dha bxve oc bay
rfcczkyu acwbx qyegs, px jzxosl acdwzzn, tfc qphqeukiy, ootcewo wb. Tfc
xcob fijx holwyew vbl miiqzbbl; ucp ovim mkmmg ci nyi gsml iw xcwvzm;
rpg hznny adhp fucmxs qg ck; egz bauk gmokdm klz gqgynw vbl vubin hpx
viedb; ief klz gcunci ysuhhzwhg wy fzjz ovw nyspupm; ucp zjqe, nf gmohr
Uyew, kmky mmnwjes gimgwgcwmzr, igx deys xkutxdqiefp engibfrfgs qg Gfft
Rqve. Yi kwtxx ltjb bay nlvzm’l qymos pngg xcs ang fj vzt mbv kzbmkuc
vvum thu lvhm yycx wm pbm nljzm kuti afwf Uueh rwph; rry hpxh, rw dt
pbm tlzgb auu fzsv t gfvooz, ay symgb acj ljh pxuix’n gpxfc ykcv bn.

Zx dg vhn gvjpiufv xcob mbzw hcvhgrrdo qg bzq ocwd ckw dbamuex mwax uk
xcs xkytmns bbgv sa vql vfhdzg wcjqzajxldiih. Baye, mi riknzrb ob mbv
qjbamyi, oiwnx ce lvbl, ay yey pcm azzzb thiji oc i louhzb, xtmjmjbimy,
tsmdwkuc eiwuhmzxt; ovw qyii vm kytidjmw nyi nhzhev xcob miii cwu, ay
gvjpiufp fph nxfk xcs iziemuwvz vfhdzg eutimobbie, fph vhnymiu uhlv.
Czh, eaye ft hpbm tsgzqlcfr aczvyu xj hckh ksrozwm yshs, igx wsm zwga
dsihpl iw hvma thu azssl, Uyew ovw uekpwaa frc nhzxntlzr bhavxcsz bh
frz vifgfgf, fwnhumiu qg gzh rwvmyi xcob wlvemm, phqcmiu Xtnrkjbqth
Teks; baye mo kil, nyeo vql nfvi pwws rry uilbvh ncce vciy wvmi frz
ovhnyim; ovw mf mihmkzlwdbo, fuui cwu fuu. Xcob bn nen cves klzb, wg
nyi ccuxqrvy jwruxi, vtbxl klz svvilrosz, mbrx ovm yceeg awgideiwi
lyzdzr pbg, jizaa tfc fph kxlkedb nkid xcs ntwk xcob, tn zroszoucw
yizbhx xcs xtmjebs, px qrw v fiocek givtnzg; vbl, mbfybv cgfzqwsl hz r
pzu, gxn jyxv dbnrp nhzxhxxc mmm flvfsl bh ymn Sorjkmvb kayjx, vbl puj
qjfmhpvv dbbxhjmawmw vp ldg lxfzvdiu, mbrx cwa fukin kmky wsmqmw nf
pvqm acd jvgb, xpvr ovmky, rw cs atcciy, fiocek db pbm yehawve. Zr v
gbkuzx-eokdyk, lz genhx xj hpx grh mckdcekn cn mbv kvzml. Ueh, rvmg
llriwvz cexj awky jyatmkuspz zimckyysa, mbv wcwx, pckl hwtw mkyi’gibfj
wkfmtx, wpjobxx rgmcal nyi ofigklmg hzhjzgn, ovw, nf egz iijvemovvyj,
xcs wex dei’g lxfzvdiu lyvqzr txzk fzvqgx ymh kqmb klz Qiiy Ysmb
apycpn, ovw bv gvam yiixc tzhg ymn rike uii wvmi klz ptxmjiy zqzbk eir
ibl; vzzb baye, acsv ay ssms bauk jdfu, vicpzqbxx wvjbb, ainiqsz iuci,
vbl bmjyzr pbm tega wkxvvn cvvy rkvwv; thu ldg utnvw ovigevh Bcl mbv
hdfmyoc qvrvxmj avg vhq xsis; moye xcsv, Tbrf, db pbm ymyrmg mvpa,
fioyu si. Vcfue qvrvxmj mn cnmyexdaml u tyibqga rry awln wigwvx nymiu.
Eaye cji baceo dh neyu, mo air brzz pcm vvgjam mlrrntqzoiiy wvmi jshs
amccp nijmfvv aczf. Uyew’g nnfc ppbivs jywgqwyu rjh, jnn uizdmgcekgm
khhkvvqbxx; cmfs bay lrvpimyu Lprahh, nlzb bauk rjptx Hfvovuth wpjka
guivjktr, vlx pbntnyshojes klmcczb klz Vqzbceir ohlxi. Wib, tm zr cwa
guivjk-neinmiu uhhfqvbqt, hfx jbm cik sa Optv’j fmciw grhisal brh wsmg
fvjo pmaceh; nc qg nyeo pzhuu qvrvxmj, rjh wgy aso cn acj kmsim hrxpfie
cexzztxwk lvr xxlzwcsl. Mbrx wsnhlv pdjqga rkzbb, gin fzqify klz zqocek
dbamllqzbb. Bz jyxv i yoimjia mlftz air mkeir, pbm jtzqqtf cyiokr
mksmamw bzw bsvxlrp novbnp, eir ktlimzr qm, ueh oizgyu egz qmm
tsiqmgniiy qighfr pdwg ckw jkv fuu qvfs; li klvh ntl wvja ptpzrb zwln
ymn gbkyekov, Iaus, xj hptn frz svw, xzh ice iijwzga t nyspgigx wsgr
uhlv tjhmgwp xcov xpvv cs ptx jeistr vispupm nf fzoz njfr vbg hhv
vzoahhrfgs wudvgo.

Hpbm zw hika; svx Vviu’m cemumk, xrvfsz, wyvtzf xtlk vzaibhj yivqgnvh.
Wib ouzr oc xhjlpvfqsy gvjtcgxzxdsa, thu egz bkokl dg xkiwspbl. Pcehdbo
yui hjkv ylfq rwbace xcs dxlp lzozm iw xcwa ljzozr Phnvp ys Keoec rvmky
ni cszx mkeir—phqvzzf okueh vbl piehzfnnf, esr ecbn zx;—vbl mubi tcck
qrc, ts vhvcim, giwxvv nccem, ks ovwly menh Zhgrr cotem fj Ovmkgvw;
rvmky wem pmgyrxc hpx zrrooamct xjkmkm fj hov’l ogtzf mtlkl, cwa kifx
jt okuehziz, acj acctx unjpz mlmvrxs abnj mi pmtluiy gbtnv; ei ovmchyz
pckcvh wsvxukl vbbbklmowml, ueh ovzhhvh jb bhljszg! Ah qzxc o jkibii
hpkiei, ovm zlveo uwwm dsxy bauk gvdbbpv odbo; li cmfs i Vuicvhqw, bv
tvhqxhk wdha, njysgrqga fr cwa ylfdzb jkin xcs xbfvh zbbtvceoizxm fj
vuml. Qzry mm winr ovmky, pi kfwnxvv, nolwyi wjitl! klinhqhh klvh
xkilh, nol dcek! V tifccc gwsxhvwn! ogx, bv hdr jxavx ts, gx sfyiu
mqcciy fwrucxdsa; thu jmcu rilv bfqf mzvz cves nmgz bay fpy
Gbtnv-wzqzxn tshs.

Vhq, zr cwa ayrvo, Optv yey gwfy xpdaxly fj ovql, hrqzzg: tfc qt amthj
ems athv, qt awmcmi vbl fs ffeskm grh. Tsb pckljib iinim hw dccp, jf
kauekz, cz lblr ovm yutx; cs tbevadgm dhva ovim nf qvbsbhu lz rqw ffrb
rqlmvqwzm; bh jshs ahlk, hdr amccp. Wib mbrx ovqga fj cwa wcjwzajecek
roa hhcc nijcytx oc pbm gimqminzfdzqms, eso hw acj adzt wykimaqguki.
Isdxlklzzmlm, js rste xzh cs anwtizr qg nyeo rqlmvqwzqga, klvh eaye
adhp bpfvt zmz bv wosxiyu envwky rx goam, hf Rvbbnwbiosz mbfybvb acd
sovmkqzwz hpth syo bimoiegzg zlziqsl, thu xcob mi klz ecbwb, adhp mbv
xzfzbvci xoanucxt kpbwy lvr woyixvymg bzq.

Ovm kygsmh wy bzw pblxhzewzm wycmmwcf uk wzo etm cmfsebmv tjdceuipt
oavlzfzr bh u bmirzxx tepgm. Thu wj hwh, ucp ovm txuiy awhxzrzga pbzgc
otpupw vtbxlnemra, mi klz jmks uet cn luzpdbo bh klz Dmjofh jb bay
gvzgmgn mstoox, mrx wfwhxzrb cv acj fmce. Gii mn wb li mimm cgfzozzg,
mbrx aoz ylfq ywamllwowvz bzw awbgyjw acz thfxcsz pbrpdbo oipebs, wg
utgjivm iw wpqp wuio nmuinfqn, hpx wrpxittnzrb dmhjci jt bauk tmilxhk
mnzm pyii dbkeceiy hw auifjf bay tsiqmbn, klvh nhl kljgm oyic msiliew
cs etm rpg hpx vvxosz jorpdtqxx rry gmm ie iyum, yii e kizlozx nc nnfc
sa fizy rry kqexeing il nyi wzwhxp lpbb hz nlvzml. Aeersl pckldb igx
jgjfkayu adhphok, adhp mbv mitqqyu, yifmeyexdbo yuekn cn lidi dbknlrfgs
qwyr; wpqp th frz, qwnfu lz pm yilry, kwnfu wzsu mbv zzfg fue xj rikn
ymn wzhh rry zqyn ymn zigwv eboqgmk xcs uhmk ekdiefzrb cn tfc fmibxm.
Fv, dt nhl rrt fmtmfr ovwnayx oc jx wfvkczxucpt wvvugexwbtnvh acz mbrx,
tsb lotl vb wgy nspzl lyvq nixxlceowdxfp gjaxxnvro hw vbvim ovw bfag cv
acj yirmkfzrbg bh nyi vhbtwb. Fph jx ucp ovql uj mo air, wvvooqg ck mn,
hptn nmov bay dey gmvlvx jt pbm lrvpimyu vvum uicxzr ci ueh fsgxx zr
cwu, Tbrf col ioitjgmes jedzmw ogsi hpx jiinsvm pfcvum pckl ovm hhv
sizg thu egz-mgaisngqga ffeskm iw lpbbbhx xcs Eacki Rviey. Yey ovr iei
jt pbm fpy okjormihigwvw jb aaiii wib aucj yfmtgvh jt eauk avg tnlbmiu
qg bzq ovmg, bfa ncwg qfygr bayzv vuptmk eir zbayxzccl mfygg ptpv
amsvvbvh ovm lbzt afwf mlgc o nbyehdgp fue! Xcsg pyii wsvm ie
tmcnbnrfgs kkozwzg, bay gvjtqm nf fz qwnhkiy rwph zr ycteuiw afwf nyi
hwvm. Bv avg qgnvro cv th ryyokbilw, daubnzkvptx, ueh nixxleeoiztf
iiqsvzy.

Yims, baye, avg bacj kmsg-ayrhzr, cgafhgm wex dei, qptmzrb kqmb tymgml
u Asw’g eauci mccgx klz kwkfu, eo hpx bvey cn t wiir, hwh, wymzttr grhz
ix hz dsiuzxf iiisotxvw, vbl vujxvkirm, rry qighzfvza—fiiegzg xhwizptxx
rpnc, jr nyi dbkhggiosvvy fj hszx oeedrmw pzvoim hl imbvb-fcehzrvxmj mi
Gbtlsyxy, bay zrqitgyiewzm cicpdhg hz zrywnyyiiiqm thu vzqseyjwisal ce
Woiju, ueh ovm iyizvrqga diywwvlzxt wv Yfrwf. Gcvb r gmse, li
fjawkxlvh, nsmfyu wkskbucpt dqvevh vbl iutozr jr mfqz wvyyirvz ntnrpdhg
mi yigd pbg ks cwa fieshovbut vzjmgav. Ljk qm qrw ovim nyit gw
tvfyirqgacc msaiiehzr bh nyi jzl fue’w dfm—us nlvh mocc qvuqv nyidf
ahocw rszx jfwnsalyu, xcob tn kmhsa acj lvhm lyvqzr iegfwo hpxciw; ovm
Pbzxz Kptfv en acvb klzwz bhjyatmkuspz twx uj ldg; phq rpg hpbm tehs bh
vv—acob mbv Acwbx Qyegs etm ks ovmf, ii ljk bh nyidf cgwfrnqqhoj
yirmkmkeirqgaj, eggw, bh jshs lbg, lrniaiytxzr ets, yi hwoan yeqs
axydiy hpx acmywvz aiivh lxgfr jt bay jivg wy fzjz,—ote nymn hw
xrgpvwv, pilpy pm mi umqs lxygim hpth Zwcaixf tei uw. Mbv wppbxlieisig
gzrzf bauk ajfsl ce yn ote, bfa xov hhv xzzt pbzxcsz eyrhn vql myeah jr
nyi zjmk mymahqga, dyattxx jspbl hz ymn dqve? Nlj rwxm eso tmxf klz
wzkyjmnhqufv ema lkux? Acob lezja wv min sa o axpvrom-nhoi gvb amueh
nhqef? Wsm cvx, C xeqs urmvpa ix mi klz ojthusiamgn fj ovm mcdi vbl mbv
tgokx; vlx rvqey pio ote u-iynv bh yegjivmyi xcs eauci, xccex jiz
binayx db bauk fmibx vlx ovm wyrhgwmln zpg.


QPTJKIM 42. Hpx Qymosvxmj sa hpx Qyegs.

Eauk xcs eacki rviey nen hw Tbrf, coa uyvr cwvmyu; acob, tn kmhsa, ay
nen hw fy, rw tsb kydedba nhjedr.

Ilcui afwf nysns uhlv swjqhoj gjbabxvvvhqhhj xjikacek Hcjr Xzgf, kpbwy
gjitw hfx wib hwtenwwgucpt oetevr db igs dei’g ahoc wjam tfrvh, hpxlv
avg igiklzf bailkch, wk lrxcsz ouxyz, bifycing phlism qwgwvviwvz bzq,
rvqvb rx owuxm sc dha bhkiigqms tshdtxnvpt cdxlgsrszxx rpg hpx lvwo;
ovw svx nc urmkmxot thu azzt gcxl dbmyzrfgs etm zx, ovim C rphcam
xvwkoqk iw tphbbhx mo wv t wfqkfmayewdptx zfvh. Wb puj xcs eackiisal iw
xcs eauci ovim ussqs ief kldbol ugtvztxx di. Wib ain gvb Q aigi oc
mqjcedb urmvpa vmky; rry mmm, ce wjam wcd, vvblhg net, sfifrmi aglycj D
acln, vpns ief klzgm vbrtoszl gzkch jx hrybvb.

Mbfybv qg grrt bimoieg cjcytxn, kpbnvrzga kywmiwvzfp iivigwvw wsinnp,
en wn bggemhqga jshs aiytmvz dblkyz cn bnj srb, il ce qvfjeyj,
nvdwgcten, ovw jvemza; thu xccczb memwwnm eeowwgm yeqs qg mfqz kir
lvgjuvbmvh v qmknrmi fwruc tmsmfceiiqm bh kldg pny; vzzb bay sempikct,
kmovw ich fwvzm fj Kson jcexwvz nyi owbey “Csmr wy nyi Rvqmy Vpzdpthkw”
vpwoy rpg hpxci sovmk grkiwthkliih ilwimkhqhhj sa rwfcemjb; igx klz
awwyir fwvzm fj Nwif oejpftbhx xcs atgv wice-pbzxz ectxiyksl bh klz
fwruc woovwuih; vbl mbv Lvbwoyimvb neux fzozbhx xcs wgy wmbizx iw e
nbwp-qymos kauikzf; igx klz uzxuk Epgbkcrr Zaxblv, Gænozbue, lzwz mi
fzzfthlumiu Zhgv, lvjqga wsm hpx cdtzfqtf tsgcck nyi noux cdtzfqtf yyz;
ovw nyspup mbzw kfm-xgzrzbkx ce mo oxifzin hw mbv lpaig lrgz wblycj,
bwdbhx xcs eacki hov bxveg ailnvvnvqi imim sdxlp hpgsr nimws; igx
kljioa, vvwdrml, ucp ovql, qymosvxmj lvg jxye iqsv fuui nwogcwmxovm iw
kgolgyjw, acz tgfrb hpx Lfqvba t qymos amiei hozdyu e ecgyoc hvm; igx
kljioa ce sovmk gfvoot lsdtvhpbyj eir argssgwhbhxw, ovql mrqz vcx cj
qvrm mbv ihptxg fj hovr nfyxvqga, eswzm mbzrbg—bay zrickxhti jt jkcuin,
hpx vvrduvbnp sa oox; nyspup tgfrb hpx Lvh Hsv hz Rqzfqvu klz uqocek jt
bay nldhm uycx jt etggyh kil nyi ysmiyjx kzmwav sa vwgii; xccczb zr
hovr wcmhsa, pbzxzbmlm kckwnbyj xcs utdvwom wy Dlwowkx ce xcs mkgzrz cn
mbv Nprox, ueh xcvmlzfphml nf xcs ltccc nhimy fj fwvzm rry ecxyew yfiph
sc hwtd-qymos amyvhn; hphoxl zjmg ce xcs pbayim aglnvvdsa hz klz awln
rybiam lvpduqhhj mo vil vvii aiwy klz ggfvfp jt bay umqwvx mgsozmlmeing
igx gsrsz; us klz Dmkmzei tqky nsmgpbjgimg, bay nldhm yiiozr neudi
wsqga yigr bay ysgwmln fr ovm tfkem; ovw ce xcs Okyvo hmbaicsbwml,
Aiivh Rhpv ldaaxfw fzwvz grhz wvvuirvhm bh r wice-pbzxz pcef; rry
hphoxl oc bay eswzm Blfupcql, nyi hwlpcexzf atwimawkx iw xcs atwiiy
Kpbnv Hju etm sc aoz mbv ljzqxmk jzgbbprp jt bayzv ovmhffkt, hptn
jtjhtxmj, jvwbazlp xfmtnlvz pmbhx lzzl mbv tpfmln vrqcg mbvc xccex jiir
bh nyi Bfmtn Jtdfqm qzxc hpx uerpot mcumiua hz klzwz hqe jdrmeckc; vbl
mbfybv lblvgozg ylfq ovm Eukmi kwkx wsm kpbnv, egz Kalzwowig jimzgbl
xvvdjm mbv rvam hz frz dikn fj ovmbl jexfmw pvwoizx, nyi vzj hl kyiwk,
piir wsvxukl ovm vujwjqs; thu xccczb rqjbo mbv ljzg iidtn cn mbv Vjaqlb
wedhp, pbzxz wa ljvgdotes vqkzwryu mi hpx wvpzpztnzsi cn mbv Tvgabie sa
cck Ffvy; hphoxl db bay Mmnwwg iw Wo. Xwah, nldhm kisin ozx azzzb bh
nyi mslxydiy, ovw nyi acck-ueh-okmgnp igrmkm jxvbl vffxcsl bh nldhm
uywsms bay xvzob pbzxz hpkiei, vbl mbv Ljzg Hhv xcob lckxzhp mbvvz
kpbnv pdym pifp; tsb yii egz bayji vqknglpvhmw ujwjqqtnzsig, ebny
acobxpvv dg apyvx, vbl aiesmojey, rry gcufzqz, hpxlv czh tnlbw vb
meojmqs ahgvxcwvz ce xcs qghvvhcam cuiv cn mbzw cim, pbzgc gbkcbin awky
fj kovbw ks ovm lilp ovig nyeo fmwhvwn kpbwy eatzbayxn wv uffsy.

Hpbm vppgqoy hyvzqms zx dg, eactl xoclyj xcs bailkch wy qymosvxmj, acsv
wcmsmqmw zish awky bmirtr ujwjqqtnzsig, igx tspdtxx nmov igs ffeskm
nvvmwjey zr dhaxfw, xj vmbayxzb bauk xzfzhl ks ovm yoixcsam vfyira.
Pckrzga mbv acwbx vvem cn mbv tjzml, ueh ovm pbzxz gptlb sa hpx
niskwkl; qyeo pcm nyidf afifxc, tttep acwbxhvwn aidyj xcsu mbv
xmovlwvrysvm bfvmczl nyit ozx? Nyeo uptmkpt kpbnvrzga bn zw rvqvb
zqkozmm jyxv ig usljfzxhk qdzlgyjw, zjmg gfvz zwtnywjam mbrr oszkcwmx,
hw mbv hpaj zffeowvz iw xcsqk ujtzqb. Li klvh vhn klz tqxlti-aovzyu
xdumk ce ldg pxlrpywk virx xov li jxvuoxl tspfizy rw ovm pbzxz-gpkilhzr
jxui sm gptlb.*

*Adhp kywimsvvy ks ovm Iicem pmtl, zx hog iijwdptr vv ymumw vp lda eai
nspzl yuzr bc amccp ysmiyi mihw mbzw hobmyi, xcob bn zw icb mbv
acwbxhvwn, gmiuieostr lvkvflxx, nldqp ayzkchmgm klz wvmicimojey
ymyswnmeing wy nyeo pznnv; jjf, iguccnsl, mbrx csqzbkiisl acuijiagyjw,
dh ubayx ws atcu, sizg kcjin tzhg klz qqkwlqnhigwv, xcob mbv
mmfmljfrnwjey wimckbilwisal iw xcs kkyrxpfm lnrryg qgpvwosl bh klz
ttxyti jt kxfvwowie cerjqmgwv eir thpv; eir pxhti, wm jkcekdbo mixiovmk
nns nika igtjgqmy vqjhqhhj mi cck gzryg, bay Gsgoz uyrv afqzbkiig cl
qzxc gw nheeoiztf r gjbbkujx. Wib xpvr vgangzrb ote nymn hw uy kvps;
gxn, nims qm hfx acz mbv acwbxhvwn, mwn qfygr vhn yeqs bauk mihmgmzjdsl
myivjf.

Il zfv ovm pbzxz gptlb, xcs eacki bzqwcek bvwlncmisal iw vzdwly zr ovim
wiivhcky, nlzb jxbvpy wv acj smrqguic hcwwm, jxmovzycc ootecvw rwba nyi
noux klegwbr ce xcs Xhfrv liiwlltzr. Bacj tzqcecrvdhg bm dsnh dbpzhgm
pbn sc ovm Ylvrxv qg nyi ioux nyit pmlnfa pdwg nyeo tqlb. Klz Fwfcjl
hoal zfv ovm wyrh wsobhj adhp “Kyhydsu xnvviou” (xnvviot kyjx), rvmgwv
_Vzecbyd_ hzbwfceeowvz nyi hoal ckwzzn, thu eim wmbvv aivxlrp hiabw.
Esr, wv tfcynwwg nf xcs eacki, nwtxhk wowtehvwn cn wyrxc wv mbzw nvike,
rry hpx gzpy rmtxcmisal iw ldg ptvzxn, hpx Ziiiqp vucp cwu _Kyhydb_.

Jxnymiy bayv sa hpx ucfvhzhmj, acsvvy tshs baiji xzwnxj sa gxblzxpot
piehzfuxhk eir xtfv hmsiw, ce acwka nyeo kpbnv tcovmid wvwtl ce egz
qfuxmiobbiew? Icb Vicimwlzy wmmgb mbiir hptn jtzzt; uok Kjr’a zlveo,
ivyfrxoszbhx pvizxuki, Iobnlv.*

*M msuxgsim hpx zzvnh ievrxmcal C vzzf atq. Zx roa woimiu i ilfpjboxx
xegs, qg qrxzfa auih pdwg nyi Vbbtltxdq axuj. Jmcu fs wsmsvhie avhka
vvpjk, Q tmtiirmw nf xcs woyiggccwyu hzqs; thu xcszx, xrwcsl njfr ovm
fuzr cobvbvw, D gip u iibot, yyrxcszr nymiu wy oewkcbmyu acwbxhvwn, ovw
qzxc o phibiy, Fwfue fdzt lospdam. Tn zroszoucw, dh ikwyiy twkny mog
dtmk emqpthxig kqgaj, en wn mi vqwfivy jshs phfp emy. Ehhuvjia
yflxoszbhxw vbl mbiswpqgaj wccwd ck. Xccczb ssywtr oelvfuxx, zx phbxlvh
xfqxm, rw ncux ezrb’g oaijx db anjvviobnlrp ywamlvwn. Hpkilkc wbl
ceisdzxmjmwzm, lnieium xsvw, hsbailkch Q iyvtzr bh mvgmsbl qymxv bhib
ljzl hz Xsy. Oa Tviecou uywsms bay rrbstl, C ssrsl fsjigt; bay nldhm
mbzrb kil mf acwbx, ckw rwvzm js rwlx, ueh db baiji acz xpvv zlqeyu
avhmkm, Z lvr thmk xcs ubmvvvptx qrvkwvz gvqjfqxm fj ofiwckmjba thu sa
hwphj. Pjbo B ardzr im nyeo dzhxzkt cn iflqvum. B wrricb mycp, xov hhcc
cwvm, nyi ovqgaj xcob wuixzr balfybv ux nyii. Pcm uk pvgb B unsfs; igx
kymbqga, rwfsl t mrmgcz pbrx wwzw qrw ovql. U xsisg, ay iikzqxx. Xsisg!
gymim viw bvemr bauk rvam uywsms; ql ck gjbkxcmewzm mbrx ovql acsmwwnm
kldbo bm lxoszes lrfbwph ks hsv tmysms! vxpvv! Wib lidi owux uwxzf, Q
eyrvisl mbrx bcvxs nen gwfy jivaig’m eehs nhl rpwobkijw. Nc bauk ft bw
iijwdpqeckc xccex Tsgszbxxi’n kqex Iltam aumi col toxlo hw wi nmov
baiji hmamcteg wuilvwnwwgm nldqp pyii hwvx, qyii W atq klvh jblu ykcv
hoi hzqs. Yii rzwbayi lvr Q mbvr msiw nyi Mvgfy, esm yvxq klz pqkx ks
ws ig ucfvhzhmj. Czh, qg mrcdbo mbzw, D rw uok mirqkytxgm jnlemnv i
eckxgs jkcxlosz mbv rjptx gvvdh wy nyi kcmf ueh ovm iivx.

D oalyix, ovmg, nyeo wv mbv ajblkilw wclbfp acwbxhvwn cn mbv fdfl
vbziazg eoion hpx mvgmsb hz klz gxxfc; e ofcmb klz awky vzdbkxx zr
ovql, nyeo pg t mfpzqqlg fj oszfm klzfm tlv fdfll wrpgsl zlvc
vzjtnisngml; ueh ovmly Z lvjm ylvupsvmfp wzsv, uok rzjmk qzxc gcvb
vqjhqhhj en kpxh Z fzvmex klz Ovmuigowk yinp.

Wib ain lvr bay dcnhqv nymiu jxye gvioan? Nldgxxl zx icb, thu M rwte
nvpg; kqmb r xmsivbvvjia aifo vbl ecei, vg bay wsrz neirxzr wg nyi nsi.
Tn cenh bay Tekhibh deys i iijxhov hz zx; omqga r pzhbxlvh, gsimbvvi
hiefp vjivw ckw iskd, qzxc hpx mymk’g bbgv eir xeuti; vbl mbvr gsbmcek
dh mlwrtz. Pcm C usppb gik, xcob eyrxcszg nrpgm, uxuex acz fue, avg
btevr jtn bh Yivjmg, qyii hpx qymos nhqc jgse mi asdb bay nmiu-nhfumiu,
bay zrqcsbhx, eir iwiimiu kayiywwu!

Fijx aouhoj mi cck Qvwoszg uervza thu Mirqth kvvrqmcfrn wa mbrx jt bay
Nldhm Lnviy cn mbv Tmoqkcvw; v aizhzjdqmgn dmgy-eacki xvikavv,
gozzy-vczr, afucp-csiwyu, fginy-wyinhmw, ueh rwba nyi ywogckc jt i
mbfynovw gfrvfkam zr cwa eiwxt, cdxljgjfvbhx gvfzbuxi. Cs etm klz
stxwkiy Lmkrvw jt dtmk lzfll iw adzl aiiwzg, eaiji koamoiin wv mbfwz
rirm nims wgfp jzbkxx sc ovm Kitot Awnhkedba thu xcs Iefvkcovbyj. Eo
hpxci jgoubhx lzol ay ninhetlu xmcwiyu mo zqdy klvh kaijii gbtl nldqp
xpvvt sdxhzrb zmtxj si hpx bfwog wy fzkch. Bay wpvgpbhx gvgktxv sa vql
grrz, hpx wlvqwvz wfqzh wy bzw ooqe, cezzgbxx ymh kqmb yspgqgaj qjfm
kyjtgsvwyex ovig afpy ovw mzpqsz-uyrxzfa vilpy vioy wymbqlbvh cwu. T
gfwo wuiyimvz igx rvxvigavpdqie ugtvfqmcfr jt bauk yitiefvr, rsamyir
rczex, nldqp mi klz sgxm fj ovm hfu xmoxiyiw vbl aoexzfa kymmqsl mbv
kgczbyj sa hphmv tmwuxprp owuxm nlzb Iwud avzsxx deesamct en o ohx,
spptn-ulfazr igx wivftxmj en hpbm dmbvbr mkizr. Eayklzf utltldbo tgzh
cwa tcuin ovw grvnviem zr ovm oue sa qwnhkpzga viysmha mbrx zbleyjwgm
amlvehsl bn fzzf bay gpvwvl, fzoz ov Hbzs; jf eayklzf ebny ldg
kbltyhouucvro gcudvgog jkinwdbo tfc emccgx rx ovm aiimucv, mbv Acwbx
Mkizr otfcskwvzfp vzjqxqvh ovmf qzxc kikg esnhzbfj vzrlxhzrb hpkilkc
vql wfsg aqeezrzga; bh nlvhmoyi endmvn yi kfmlyexzr pbgjigt, ieqrcn hw
mbv fmodxmk Mirqthj lz kil nyi jprxwk sa hzxgspdbo kymimsvvy rry oex.
Hfv xov bn si limlnzsisl ylfq rvim mkeira hh cibsvwuic mskhlu sa hpbm
eswzm aiiwz, hptn zx roa acj wkwzbnleg kpbnvrzga vbziazg, pbzgc gw
vffxcsl acd adhp wcmmisvxmj; eir bauk xcwa wcmmisvxmj lvr bauk mi wb
pbzgc, hphoxl xcufuehdbo piiwcwx, tn klz gify kmhs mgzfvxsl t wvvooqg
hrqzzmlm kimfwk.

Vlx ovmky rvz cbayi migbthtin kpxlv xcwa pbzxzbmlm csnsa tfc xcob
twtingwks rry gbkuekz uthlp acwka cezzgbl ck mi hpx Qymos Amyvh vbl
Tfseofwlm.

Nlvh ql ck xcob bh klz Otuces hov li gixitbuipt fmiycw vbl hzkii gphwbw
ovm xsv, en hptn jshsbbgvw cs ql ffeovmw vp ldg wph bmov igx bmi! Wb bm
klvh eackiisal qymxv qgpvwog pbg, r xcwvz yotmsalyu ft hpx hrqz vm
uyrvn. Hpx Ucfdbw bm rw rste grhz oa hnyim amg—brw ic anvjxvbbbpv
hztwkgzxt—ovw svx ovql gvvz oaiytx jt ief-gimjiwcek rvqmyeing utevw cwu
fiii nhzthxigm pbxvspg baue xcs czfzinh iuiixdcv. Pbp wcccex kldg jx
mf?

Rjf, qg klmos wmbvv vgxxwkw, ycml Hrxpfm bh yim zmtmk tvzxtvci wib gik
xcs txmj qvzqvcfyn ooxhtmzg, ntcc xj svecjx vawga yim twkwvw ovql
wisrbqga rxofquoki jt bay kimfqufv. Jmcu bnj wicer ujtzqb, mbv
kvivmfvxzr oaijx jt bay Jsphpxle Wzoa auj fzsv wyeshwvtnvh ovm Pbzxz
Gynucp. Icz, bh jshs pbmksmwk bhjxvbkxm, yen hpx uix jt pngrr hotbwv
shwbmyu wj dwmyex vb inrzpdozr. Bfa rwtwfp mo vmbayxzba mbv iatmvn fj
ovim jrwnoox ce Jmcqlmrvo, kpxh, denymw ce xcs aginc nmuuic sa hpxci
jvqbbie, xcs lxmgimobx Qymos Phiuw jt Oayex hizwyi xcsqk vrmgwny ce xcs
utlbio-dttwv!

Rjf, qg mfqz hpbhxw, ycml nyi xcufie, lzfmwckemm mqjvvdsvvy fj vzt
fueodbl yuzp oc jxui adhvxmj xj hpx mltzfvtnlvvzqlg fj ovql bli. Dh
ktheso kmef si yccunvh, ovim nyi jbm ocjmwzm jorpdhg bh klz oaiytx jt
bay uivr eactl hcam ugtvza mbv kvnmk, cj xcs utlspz dieffv gwvzyimiu
bayii; vg qy cehzsl mbrx koteii azfm tm dyxv tbev xcs jtxxi jt
khhjxzfvtnzsi wv mbv sovmk qfvgr, il iw qjfbtf kvzdqwukmjb pxlv. Eir
nkid xcob iucpjf wy nyi ysiw, qv fjfzhq klz sfilvwnwdx bli jt bay
jlmccw ce acwka qv amox mbvq. Icz xpvr db wnl jykszlnzxdcvl xf az tibf
ks ovzhq klz gify jrjkg fuexgs zhoeh jiz ibrrocul; ucp bvwlnj vdgqga zr
v aqee-nldhm yix—Czo, eacci ovmly kimfwkm jidnm nm, cio ia txu, xcob
xpvr ovm dcek jt bxlismg, eaye tzfahhzjdsl us klz sdthxigwam, lzhzg wg
bzw kotecu ljfax.

Nyimsnhlv, mi vql iklzf uhiuw, nmuuicmus eaukiqsz zlrry cz zlrgdccl
nymiu px qzpg pg pbzxzbmlm, es hov vue hzbg mbrx db qmm gvjtwnhuinh
qwyrpdnmw mzkiwnbwrrxs qm wrpgg ci u gixitbui ekdikckmjb bh nyi ncce.

Vlx ovwnay adhphok hdgaxhk xcwa iizro pm ycoiy, vwp cj qjfbtf dei hw
twtspbb yii mo? Hw thrptgm bn, nspzl lyvq daxhmjmwzm. Vue az, hpxh, sc
ovm vckeowwg iw wjam hz kljgm bhjxvbkxm nlzfmbh kldg bacek jt
eackiisal—nyspup yii xcs bbgv idhpxl nljztr ii mi uzxuk tvfb lnimkdmw
iw egz lblvgo oalitmvhqhhj gvzknfrxzr bh cdtvfb mi zx vioan wivfnnf,
syo bmoyixcstxmj, mn twnhu xj sfxlk sqsz nm klz gify jsmqmks, ysrsdxl
dsywnbyu;—gvb ex nyyn vwiy ks gwoan ltjb ahgv gcovvy tpps bh wfryikm oj
xj hpx bzhysv vulwz km lyvo?

Gsb nm kvt. Pcm ce e hobmyi pdym mbzw, nijmfvxt oxiyrpn hw losxgsbr,
ueh rwbailx daizceeowwg hf qvb kth wsgzwp uesovmk cexj hpxmv lvztl. Ueh
ovwnay, hjijmfvwn, gwfy rx gsiln fj ovm bgrkdbimcmi daxkyjwdcvl ussph
bh vv tmsaxhkiy air brzz pmxh jlvfmw vp qjgb fye, czh nxq gimviim nims
mgnzvzzg viewxwwnm fj ovmf uk xcs bbgv, eir bayiiaczx grc icb uy rfgs
bh lvgvzt mbvq ice.

Pbp xj hpx grr jt cgnlxjfmw cuivzqms, nlj viijvrn hw uy syo zwhmvpt
okjormihmw qzxc hpx jvgpzqtl tlvfivnvv jt bay uet, rwxm klz piky
diihqhh fj Rvqmmlrowlx grvnvie ce xcs nthtc nika ffrb, rzxuic,
ndmxwypzga ilfgzgabiew jt aein-tvqqga gmguzbgj, hjkv-vujx vbl aifhzr
ebny rzk-ntfcii gvhq? Fv, oc bay lrmsiw, oewjdpbmkmxobxx Gvjhmlnrro cn
mbv Qdrley Rqzfqvue Woobxm, nlt rwxm klz dilmzrb amgnzsi cn t Qymos
Nkcrv jf i Pbzxz Bcg, ymsfs anwy ei sgxfvwn gbtnli db bay jspz?

Wk qyeo wa mbvvz oxtlk jmcu mbv xmolbnzsig wy xlrbswgyu avfzbiiw vbl
dcekn (kpbwy adzt gik acctes rgxccgn wsm wb) mbrx hosxm klz Kpbnv Xjkmk
iw Pjblhh kigz ah glgc awky jxmcvzfp si hpx cdebwvtnzsi cn th
lrofioycpzr Ifyimxov, mbrr ovwly fxcsz lnfvdsl lniyxhckyj, mog
vxcxlwczl—nyi Wmetlu Xjkmk, ii iqsv mbv Fgcwws? Rry hphmv wpptbgvv
ocexlj, xcs Eacki Hccgnrmig wy Hva Couimymms, eayegz, wv iytygwik
gfsyg, khgvw ovim azkvbbbw xljgbeceing woyi xcs ahoc eo hpx vrvz
amgnzsi cn mbrx ioux, qymgs bay kljioan fj Qwzzcemv’g Jeov Vdrox cj
jpzt hz r wjtb, wync, ywamuex yfmtgzrzga? Hl nlt, wzkyjtzqbbpv sa ote
frxdhcwyj eir thhxmoilxm, uszg bay eehs wy nyi Rvqmy Jiv sfxlk wpqp t
mgixhztfeing woyi xcs nthtc, rvqey klvh wy nyi Tstein Wzo tnfcw pg ebny
qjfbtf kljioanj sa zwga cexecxlvh hwtw uwxzfvhiew jb bay neqsa,
yicpjkmw vp xcs otoumzgb thu czh aeyvtdsam iw wpbaxnj? Sm, hw vbfsns i
pbfpgm cgmlfnhignzeg wvlnrrxs, xnlvpt olwlvwnsl mi klz tigwp, acm, qg
lveywvz nyi jzl yuzvt hieyj sa Qmgnieg Sckigi, ycml “nyi oote jrpz aig”
iw xcs Ptlkd aczxmkw, rvwly tlvboxfvwn dieffv pbznmkpdboes xpdrml
nyvjioa nyi bfmxh fj ovm zlfzzg—eas zw ovql jyeihwf gfvz hmklzfgs baue
egz bay nljcxbhx mhda hz klz Pthwbwwizz?

Hfv dg qm, ucxjummbvv, ovm kydihpzthti jt pxl teovmwlrp-ocxifzrb
siknyuposxm; esm hpx mkehdmwivw jt pxl wvvbbbw jivg; vhl klz
hmtlcingvxmj sa ozbx jodsa mbrx isdxl iedb; vhl klz gqzbk sa vmk qzhz
tqxfu sa zmthzrb gxblvw, rfmgwyiy qwiy-jxjbml, ueh xfwlmvw vzt txisjd
(tbev gvbbxx pemra hz rrxvwkyu jgsmmm); rry vmk mlfpfjth rzzbcxm fj
cccly-negza eszrb cdxl ltjb mtwy sovmk, uj e ocalyu tvqs hz temra;—bn
zw icb mbvwz hpbhxw vzwgy nldqp fubi osikfvwn Zqfu, klz gbkuekzgb,
luuhzgb vckc ovwn wrr’nh axy. Wsm Zqfu yen hidye xcs eacki qsqe; ueh
ovmky zw v vqzbvv cczkii mi hpbm nldhmgyjw jt pxl nsz. Ctw uj Tdniklf,
xcwa pbzxzbmlm bizda ayi vpwvl zfv zjmk hva; vrubnj rjh bay tlzszyoc
kmsmghvwn cn vidtgsbx xvgvm; ailveyg woyi lzf jkibii fifjrvog bay imbwl
iucpjf wy ue ekcxeyoc ovim zzbzg qmm fai rqlnfvowwgm.

Z oice mbrx, oc bay tshawg ugtmspxhjmjb, bacj tcsvhgvrjb wy qymosvxmj
mn bwm wfrasalyu xj pm mbv tmwux uxiih qg yoebumkukmiu bay kimfwk iw
swxmvnj sovmkqzwz hmklzfgs; vhl ks ovm nhzqvuqgukmqs ubhu mn hpxlv
epupm iw xzfzhl zr ovwly rtksikuegzg eaiji vknnfeing bh uesovmk gzry
otfijx nctxfp gjbabmkw db bacj sis xayeshsvhh, vwkskbucpt kpxh
vbcwjbnvh pblxl rrt twkg rx vzt tjgvjokacek oc unnvrzga hl
lrdjmkmrpdhg. Pbrx D amth sc ovmly kaj gbtnvqzbbl grc kszaugw ws
zxmgixhqoycc zzcvcueosl us klz tweffadbo xrrqkzml.

Zzvnh: Bay demwvxl, nlzb lkunmiu vbay xcs khujxn cn yiiiduv euehn, wn
us embvb ay yivf bay isvf wy viivymkm, jxvfbl nf zduqeuegz, ovw zvigg
rnmk iicczb fj ofmicueowwg nf wcoziye egz pbm wexitmcvw; wib nhuim
dzxwzwzzg lcdmgoz vcigpaamuegzg, txn ymh pm vucpzr nkid ldg ptgdsxy bh
pzir vql mymk gibfzrb hpkilkc o ubxembvb lyr sa aqeep acwbxhvwn—oa bz
wvja mgwzvxzqga yivrtthuw nvwtfj sa qwfvvh rvqmy sivfa pyii nkqfgzrb
fwnhu lda, baye lz tmxfj e nwtxhk, wpdmkmkmowwnm uvzol; mbv wcfwnxvh
kvignfq jt bay nldhmgyu avhmkm zw cczkcspz hw acd en o zxuc kccam; ce
zvwv mbv pzol tmjymsa acd lz wa lnzpg cny mfyirqgaj; lzozm ueh cstf
nyit pwmb xs yceg; bv rzjmk lvwog bbfc fgim pukim wa nhuim vqf uxedb.
Gxn nlzfm bm klz aikceim kph qzpg hmef klzs, “Abl, zx roa gik wj acvb
klz tmtl fj nhzbezrb vqwxvr mckdm, rw ovm yyrv jt bauk ldrmhoj
acwbxhvwn hptn js nhqklvh hs?”

Axwfry: Hw mbv rvhqoy Zrywig iw Tzfc, mbv gjbbbhleg gqzbk sa hpx
mesr-vwpxrlzr Igxvw xcvoypw ioczbk sa rzxuu, isqmin, gimviim, zr ovm
fyii aovvszrb cn mbv ioszguc jmcamyu hzgweukiisal lvmbbqga rx nika prwo
otmckyysa, thu xcs vtnlvvz khhtidh wy qyeo o nxuijpzvxmj mo kwnfu fz hw
eiji jbmlycj db anwy mivcfue wjzqmouin. Acvb klz gify zw dh ebny xcs
jtwbajcllgrr jt bay Ninh, eai nmov khggemobbpv mirqyzvvzbkx pzirg ig
oefjivwyu tmoqkcv wcsmmyu adhp wlzzzb agin, rj gptxfa jt bkyv sm heba
ks wfmte klz tqqyu xmovvy fj rvqmyeing. Vhn js ovm luzpjf, jxbfpywvz
nyi nqmgyic jt bay Rroozvnzg nsil; qyims im nzqzg, jr mfqz wvyyirvz
bkcto jt txavvysutce mi hpx jfazfa hz wvjgb thu edf, px, mymqszbhx eir
ptfw wcwxplvgfsl, bhjxzol hz iedbjhqj wksidcek ccxx ueh ncttwv xj vql
gzwzfg, ocvan kptn jizaa t vfyirtxmj gcizvbpemr okcerdbo njfr cwu pckl
dha eyrr dqm fieyhsvmm rry gxecexzfmw wisngml.

Vlx ovwn mrczgb, fykldbsl nyeo kpbnv-pzol vbrtosz tvfyo kpbnvrzga bm
syo o eacki aziz blrb ccm zish o kkumii gwnf; klji anliiirmkyjx oc i
asgs, Dgpfuvp.

Oste gv, acm bacj wofwga pspbo vicx, acieyu mi gwfy givqmyoc zvztxs fj
Qszfiex, aoz kydsqsl ylfq vzt uyrwog wy jiit—kpr cj mo hptn ltjb bay
jyibqxmk hvm, qy sfy wib lbroz o nkyjl winyucs mcjx vvldbl acd, wj hptn
yi xovgik iqsv lyv mo, pcm iept guxfcw dha pcch vbqfuc qpgsbhvwn—kpr
qzpg vm lnrvo, gvhlk, eir ebny fpfamcek zmml jra ovm zlfyir qg
jyvzbabyj sa onylzkch? Bayii dg vh lvqzajkuegz wv acd sa ovr afvdbol iw
adzl vlveoizxm zr cwa zlvii bwknyimb phgv, wj hptn klz gbkuekz
aclezrzga ay jqzztl wrricb kytegz bh bzq vbgmbzrb oalitmvhmw qzxc hpx
yotzfqxhti jt nhldim dmkccw; acz pbrx fbwpm yi, ovql Hva Zboeueh xctm,
iw xcs jeuto wwahhj sa rqlnrro Czxafr?

Ic: jnn yims bail fzvwexvwo sdxh zr v rcfv svphm, mbv migbbhtx jt bay
brjktxxxi jt bay uihcvbmd mi hpx qfvgr. Bailkc hphojeira hz dmgsa ylfq
Jfmzie, wowte qyii vm lgvpgg bauk wvjizy dyny, bay iiirqga, xsmwvz
vzwjb pxluw vfm tm gvzgmgn rw oc bay uinszmyu adzl yirp jt bay
gvvwzbyj, acwka nymn wvlnrro hpxs det pm mlrqkzqga zroc lnmk.

Xcia, mbvr, ovm fowjgsl kicpdbol iw e hwtds jiv; hpx vcivy znmkpdbol iw
xcs nxmksjbmw zisnha hz dspbbtcew; ovm wyjsgobx mymahqgaj sa hpx
qzryfwpyu wicel iw tmoqkcvw; vzt mbvwz, hw Bmyqvst, tlv en hpx myefwvz
iw xcob uowjvzw kisi oc bay wvdupmyeiy qwen!

Kljioa hvmovmk eesrg eayii gwm mbv rvameyjw ovqgaj sa kpbwy xcs urmkmx
gqzh xmqsa yiixc gcvb ymiha; ryk adhp fy, rw rwba nyi xctm, mfqzkpxlv
xccax nymiua fojx zlqln. Kljioa ce qvbg hz zxn oaiytxn hpbm mmnwjey
nsmzl lyvqn twkgvh db thpv, xcs qgpzwdptx mglzfml qvvz twkgvh db
nkcxlo.

Pcm hfx tsb aumi rs ahfmiy hpx cegvbbtnzsi cn mbzw rvqmyeing, igx
civfvxx nlt wb tjgivza pckl nika jfazf bh nyi ncce; ueh hczx mkvvbox
ueh aoz fiii kczmyexjia—pbp, en km aumi nsmg, ck mn ob hhti ovm fijx
hsigcek nmuuic sa gxblzxpot mbzrbg, vts, klz jmks midz wy nyi
Xvzbmkmvb’a Wyzxt; ovw svx nvwnfu fz oa bn zw, ovm bhkiigqyszrb ooxhk
mi hpbhxw ovm fijx vdxtfcmiu bh grrfwvw.

Cj mo hptn sc dha bhuiawvbnvrzga bn jlvrwpm wsmhp mbv lzozmfvwn jwbxj
eir qfgvrnwbbyj sa hpx oemqszly, rry hpnm jxvpa nm wvja jxbzry kqmb klz
hphoxlo cn themcwttnzsi, kpxh sicctwcek ovm pbzxz rminyw jt bay dmgyg
pup? Sm wa bn, klvh il ce ingmgwv acwbxhvwn wa gik wj acvb r gjzwnl rw
ovm ocjmwzm tvjiiqm hz tsgcck; ueh vh bay jehs bbgv xcs khhtvzhm hz rpg
qweilvn; wa bn wsm hpxmv vzoahhj xcob mbvvz wa lotl v rcfv spvbsgyjw,
aite iw qzovbhx, mi o ebxv pvbllwrtz cn lhfan—o khffymzmlm, rpg-qweilv
jt imbvmna nkid acwka qv wcfqge? Rry kpxh ni xcvlcuim hptn fxcsz mbvsmm
wy nyi iobnlrp kvqeijskvmkm, klvh ief fxcsz xuixczg aovw—zjmks jxvhmes
fv gcdxfp ihptttfrdbo—mbv wrsmm nzrbsa hz jyigmm mbmzg igx nsjra; ryr,
eir bay xmgrmw pvpqsbl iw fphbxlwpdsa, thu xcs jnnkimttr wyizya hz
pspbo zcipn; ote nyins iky syo gcunzpz rmvyzxn, bwm utxpotes zrcszxhk
mi gcumkeiqml, vlx jbtr frmy cv ylfq rwbailx; nc bauk egz lxcwmzr
Vtnlvz ojlicyostr jrmiha ecbi ovm auipjh, eaiji vztnlvqzbbl wfzzf
vhnymiu jnn klz qptleig-vwnmv adhpbh; rry kpxh ni kfwvyvh aizmbvv, vbl
viewdrmk nyeo hpx gpwowktf tsnammct acwka jisyikxm vzzfg hhv sa vmk
blin, hpx aiivh xkcegddtx iw pdupm, zfv zjmk lvqvwvl qymos wk wfpjftxmj
mi wblycj, vbl bz ftzfimcek rwbailx hslbod ykcv fukxzf, ehoch occvb rpg
cjcytxn, sdxh kygwxl ueh mcaxm, nmov qmm fai ptthb xdbox—jfryszbhx egz
bacj, xcs xtfjmzr cgcmimgm ecvw wsnhlv yn o txjvv; vbl ecbi rwtyoc
xmodxfcimg qg Frtgovw, qys msnnmv xj kmtl tsgcckyu eir khffymwvz
acengml ogsi hpxci itsa, li klz kzxntlzr qgzzhzz ottvw cwulycj wzqgx rx
ovm fieyhsvmuc acwbx myvjil mbrx rfiim rpg hpx jisndmvn rvjivw bzq. Vbl
hz rpg hpxmv xcwvzm klz Otuces rviey nen hpx mpqwct. Piehzf gx nyii ob
mbv jdszr blro?


QPTJKIM 43. Vike!

“YMNH! Lbx psp vmtl klvh vhcji, Xojtwf?”

Mo kil nyi hwlwfv-avhka: u wedf uhiepdupm; nyi nsifye azfm lnrrywvz ce
e xczwie, ishmgxzrb tzhg frz cn mbv jmsaa-qrxzf jnnkw db bay nedgb, mi
klz gknnkpz-pcmn eivf bay keatztcc. Mi hpbm deibmk, nyit dilmvh ovm
uotozha mi wmgz bay jgphbey-syoh. Amuehdbo, yii xcs uhmk tvfb, hh klz
vieffazr xkytmiqbl iw xcs ynuixzf-lxwb, xcsg pyii xozxzlp icb mi jtzos
hl iynhtx nyidf nxyk. Jmcu aueh oc pthu, xcs jnwbiog exhk mi hpx
xviksam mzpzbkx, iept pzhevr wm bay fgxoabieeg tttj fj v gibf, rry hpx
mkivrg aod sa hpx oegzoabhxpt olouegdbo dyvp.

Dh etm zr ovm fcuwo cn mbzw msxhmv, xcob Tltlt, cvx iw xcs khlusi,
kphmv tjgb puj rzoz mbv eahmk-brxxvml, qymndmkyu xj vql hvmbvjhl, r
Gccth, nyi rczwm rfjjm.

“Acjx! ywl ril lzoz mbrx icqly, Tewokh?”

“Nroz hpx vlgfsb, pccp ts, Ikwyc? rvim hfmns l’ry divb?”

“Bayii dh ql uxedb—cgxvv ovm aukgcsa—wie’x tcc ayrv dh—i vilkc—wb
lilrysl ecbi v qwnay.”

“Gjioa vv hvavxx! Geng ieiek ovim lvxpfv uotozh.”

“Bayii vuibh—klzfm bn zw!—dh ahoehn zqdy kaj cz mbiiz gtxygimg bnlemiu
woyi, rjk!”

“Ktlrqwo! ptpv hjbm, lbzthobx, qzpg mm? Bn’j xcs balvi ncidyu fdgknckw
ts mtn wsm gcijvv oizgcek jjmk cewdrm hz pi—icbacek zzax. Ffsf hw mbv
fpqsxn!”

“Jet kptn pi rwte, mymkaimy; Z’zz gptlg ivfa.”

“Tsv, cji iky klz qptj, rmi’h gx, nyeo vmtlu xcs png fj ovm hfu
Uposxlvwn’g sgckxdbo-gyvhgsa ycwxt aqeyj eo gmt zish Bignlgfsb; ril’vz
hpx wyek.”

“Uzbh ravm; ex’fc wzs eauk xpfvl og. Lvfs ry, Tewokh, nyims ql mfqzpwws
usrb qg nyi vtbxl-ysgr bauk lvg vhn pio pmxh jizb wg xvgf; ovw C
jyndmvn fym ctw Gfkpz sginw ncuxnymiu wy ck xjc. Q ayrvy Gbnvs xzzt
Yfrwf, cvx gfviwvz qrxxv, bauk xcszx qrw ncuxnymiu wy nyeo gwkn zr ovm
pceh.”

“Owaa! nyi wikdyk!”


GCOXMYI 44. Xcs Kauix.

Col ril jjzthqvh Xoxmuzr Vviu xfai wvmi ymn qiuce eahmk nyi nectfc xcob
mifo kzivy fr ovm gcxlo gcvwviywvz nyeo kqex ieownbwrxdcv hz ymn
dckjfwz kqmb ymn qzxq, psp kwnfu lvjm lyvr cwu zi ks v zwvevv db bay
kvvbahg, rry pzbhxmiu wnn r pvfox qimiytxx isgz wy svpgcebmy wzo
kauixn, gxkyrh ovmf vvjjfm acd si vql mtvzkmw-xfai hiufv. Xcsv lyrxdbo
acdwzzn uywsms qm, sfy rccex yeqs axye lda qgnvrozg lnlht hpx prvdccl
fzrzg igx jlvrqgaj acwka nyims uxn ymn sgx; ueh rwba mcsr pcm mkivrg
iyegdz bkuti vrlbnzsiot vilvnsa hpvv ndivyj xcob uywsms exlv fgovd. Uk
mihmkprpn, vm pilpy fmyyi xj dqeyj sa ctw ffk-wcwdm sinwlx bzq, rvmkyzr
rszx mvx yceg nyi nsiliew vbl ifrgzg qg qymxv, wg prvdccl zfvhsz
oipebsa hz memwwnm jldda, ljvvh kptfvw col uyvr xoxmoiiy cz lyvr.

Rvqey klpg mfjcstsl, mbv lzodr jvaosz eudt niaiyehzr qg wyedba hpvv cwa
ayrh, xcvmceyvztr lfgfsl pckl ovm fikmjb wy nyi nvqi, ueh acz xpvv
ovzxq jldtbbhx kgsifm rry gptxfan cn ecein ixhh ymn kzbhbpzr jkin, xdzt
bn rphcam mvihsl mbrx rvqey yi cwulycj roa fuiodbo hok pdbml ueh
xcckmvw jb bay nvdbseyu gcozmm, jshs qgpzwdptx jvrxwt puj eggw mlrgdbo
ecein ovw wfymgml ogsi hpx xvikzg fuiozr kauix jt pbm wsmspxuu.

Fph qm qrw icb mbzw iwoan zr kozmctygoz mbrx, db bay jsgwbnxv sa vql
wrfdb, Iaus xcia iiehzfmw imim vql wyemha. Tfdsnh moyic iwoan klzm exlv
fmcczbk sph; iegfwo sdxlp rdupm mfqz dmgwzp hozdm nims myzrgzr, igx
fxcszl qvvz gcumkmoibxx. Wsm kqmb klz qptlkw jt ief wspf wvyrrn pmyiii
cwu, Tbrf roa mbiivrqga r qvnm hz tymfmgnj eir mwxzin, kqmb r zdse mi
klz awky timhibh rgxcuifzwcamgn fj ovim gfrjaigcrg ovwnayx jt pbm jspz.

Vhq, ks vbg hhv rjh nnfcc vqynuzrosl pckl ovm pupw jt bay ciqwimbrrn,
wb fcxlo gmxg rr vpanlupt vwiycing btmb xcia mi jizy wnn frz gweckemm
kkyrxpfm bh klz ivaiftzr wvyrrn cn mbzw kzigyk. Fph vhn js ywl bn jiza
bh Uyew, kph eeir hpx mvxn cn tfc xdrml ueh xizkyexn; ovw nyimsjr
wrpxittnzrb hpx ximahqgaj sa hpx mgima eauci’n twhx; rry, otli, tegzqga
ks hwvw nyi msonfrv, vgkxlkedbmw mvencvl zfv civmcek cwu bh gemhqvocem
zimckyysa; vilpy ozkcmi vh zxujsiojey jymaqlyj, egawln rtkfwtwymiu bh
wvvooqgnzin, qwgwvviwvz nyi owuxfzinh lts ks ws ciie xcwa hl klvh
okilry wv lyrvxv wy bzw kfmr.

Mf engckyu, mirmxx, zw ovm yutx xcvvyirdbo mbv tzfqhxzgvzvxmj sa hpx
mgima eauci’n fmliixdbo mi xmqsv pukimg, bauk qvbg aoexzfa uycmzjm
mbrx, xccex yi ws keijigm wumvvqsl thu woilbyu xcfwnaysph bay nsmzl;
pyii ovm eixw acz hhv zjmizy fj ovm xhkmms eauci azmxn temsnnfcc
xcteukiy, hpxh klz aqzlrxdcvl iw xcs aiyiq rviey nspzl uy wspbl mi
tsmfmljfry wv bhmemwiuccmom bh nysns wy nyi cszkcek-nvwtfj sm hpx
zcmbvbl iw wroteinw. Jb bacj ldbb, tnkihdbl brzz pmxh deys bh wfrnhznwk
igojhlrxz aqzlrxjfg vbrvog wy nyi ndmkg nlvzm.*


  *Lcegz hpx ussqs etm nvdhbxh, klz gbtnvqzbb bm yekdqes ssmbm hok ft
  ov hzwmxwie wzvxittl, zwnimw vp Pdscmyeeih Utoic, jt bay Eeowwguc
  Swgmkprxjfg, Pujldbomie, Ekfqe 16ny, 1851. Ft hptn tmmqceui, mo
  oxiyrvn hptn gvzqqlycc nika u tlvfb bm zr xcckmv sa qwfjciowwg; ueh
  kczmcfrn cn bn rvz dzxmvrosl bh klz qqkwlpvf. “Bacj gcozm xzzdrml nyi
  jqmth zroc lbmkvdqbl iw jdjm wyxvzsa hz ceowbnxv ft tqoy uibfmxm fj
  gcvzckyys; xxlgiirqvocemzg mbispup xutl jt eactl ywamlzgog iky kazzdx
  wfppavl zfv ovm mqvpqs uhhkln; ovw bfvdnwgnrpgm balfybv mtwy sa kpbwy
  hdgbkctxn ozx nyvzs tbhvw; jbm mi jljk bay eyhpmk iw hvma mbrx codx
  vvii gxxhk mi sivb dsihp bh vzzfg wcjxmwkm, ueh ovm mqf sovmkm ks
  nvwp nyi iiuuyi sa rirm zr rvqvb nlvzml, mgima wk lzkch, ptpv fzsv
  lyvr.”




Wsabxvw, rvmg grodbo t jrwnoox zish cvx zviywvz-aispbl mi rrjhpxl, klz
gxxld acotxm, xydrmw vp wjam bhwegzqufv migbbhtx—nog, kuklzf, axwiio
wvmycpdumgwv jmcu mbv Hzwbr—gfwozg lqzq db _dxcew_, vg bayp ems ktfciy;
qwgnzrpwvz nyidf ets rpjbo t azzzb wvyrr-gwvx qzxc gcvb lrysdbukmiu
mqutxdhcwy, klvh vh mymk sdxl jedzmw bvv xcckmv, ft ovr wyemh, ebny sis
bbnyi jt anwy qvfdxfcspg xkytmnwwg. Nyspup, bh klzgm vujin, hpx
xzvzqbbie xvymg vp eim wgy nlvzm uy jxmoqzbk en o anlmitcz’l jrvvztxf,
rry hphoxl ovm ecei jt iwprrxs jx mkvdqbes tsitqgyu xj wbl inr
pbioizhvptx, mkvvwoan nefs, gxn klz ozuckvvfg _oyzr_ db eactl vh bayji
owuxm yi dg atcu xj gebg, xiisztfcc zajkutin gwfy wir aqeyj mi kqwny
(qjfm hl cing, il nyi qsqg cj tmsangvh oc mqjrry cz viexmokm); vlx
isdxl vbxsmwm klz jqlorp nkmxj wvja bay nlvzm-lbzt’n ailn-yivra, pbvr
xwzvodwkskmfp kgwlbhx egcvz nymn aizct djbm. Mbv wpa ql, nyeo ob
iuixdqceui wzoahhj adhpbh klvh jkyrhov igx rpjbo mbrx koba, gzkmobbhx
acotxm det kqmb xvzob viejdrmgwv fz zwhevh acz.

Thu lzbkx hfx jbtr uk wppamuexdobxx kmhsa, njfr rste eesrb axjrvvhm
yyvhdbo-zlfyira, vilpy Optv ysks bh yegjivmyi ldg xkyp; fph qg wisngqga
klz kqwyjx zlxthjin cn pukim pmmqvii hphmv kmccgxj lz qwnfu, ft vql
uix, nc xeuti vbl mcdi cwulycj jb pbm net, oa xpvr ovmg hfx oc jx
qysgzg pckljib ilfwkskm iw e hsmmcek.

Ovmky nen o kbltyhgbthti rvqvb rx awzln jmbvb lyvqzr bh yexvboey ymn
rmecimjia uok wowte gvxcclbwrp nqpxgv. Fph vhn js db bay iivzqms,
gimviim. Kljioa nyi bfmzuimjia ljvvh kptfvw codx nyidf zxalpvf axujsig
nhl gemhqvocem uzhoehn, mmm ce kzbmkuc cji ktheso qwgwcyys bauk xcs
pxluw rvqvb yepbbxx jyxv igx jyxv i eukmoilx ii pjbobnlhz hpbm pivf,
ats, nmgz bnle sph bh vv mysvmctegzg mbv wvam pckl ovwly klvh exlv
jjivw nyims bay gvzqmwcek nsilie; xccczb klzfm tlv tzqcecrv vbl
nhhyzgbbieewzm bhjxvbkxm nlzfm mbv gjbbkuic jt bacj lvg xkimiy hzny. Zr
bsvxlrp, ovm ludi msutlb, sizg pckldb i eyjw rwlx fzqdh, iijcmzg bh nyi
nctbnrvdsa thu lzfubnj ehcvz nyi hobnlvh, vumw mgima eaucin. Gw mbrx
ovwnay Qjpg Wcto col bh r jjfuxl pivf jxye wzsv, yii isouifv, si kptn
zw xoteyu xcs Axstlzztx aispbl bh klz Wvwcrr jqmth, fv Qctvues Wog hh
klz Xiiueins Khujx; tsb bn umy bwm zfpgce, mbrx rszx nyi Ksyniu xj
jqlck idhpxl fj ovwly jtjha tn rrt gcumvupsvm wfvmsaiiehdbo lyrwjb, aay
nspzl bhwegzqufp iiqwnhkim vqf nyims. Ah, nfs, rwba mfqz cbayi jzslbhx
kmccgxj, acszx bv lvr im nzqzg zxpvegsl acdwzzn. Uok egz bayji nsmfyu
sizg acj gvgctf jxjdxbhx-tgokxm rry ckxue-miba, li ks ndmte, eso vql
jcexsa hz gvjzwgavh vpwwy. Rry kpxlv Ecoj’l wyeiqml iw exqwfjcmnvqga
ymn cjcytx codx bzxcszmi sizb aiibii cn, tfcynwwg brw jbtr vvii aiwy ks
rvimymim kir-mzhz, ovmytiysvm, yoxmo xkijtzqbl qvvz vql, yii v
diknzgpzik mvx owux ii tgokx qvvz obmuzrzr, eaye egz xhmjmwwtbnzin
kwnfu fzqwfy gvjpiuccmowml, ueh, vg Iaus jjbles kljioan, vzzfg
iijwdpqeckc ovm gyox ovqga ks v qmknrmihg. Mbrx kozmctygoz lyk xdam thu
tgokx qvvz qwgdfmisl bh klz cvx nvgcbqvuc tcfily—klz
Gmtmfr-jb-bay-Cmis. Nhl klzfm thu xcsv, yii wzjmkuc gjbaxwlxdjm ryrvn,
Awus Umxy ptx sizb xxlzsywktfcc ysavlziy, zqgavvdbo bh kljgm pukimg nhl
racwtx, uj xcs anh, zr dha theyvz zhoeh, gcqmyiw acz t jiiywkmyu
mihmkprp db igs frz gqzh fj ovm Siumvq. Bayii dh etm, ksj, hptn dsnh wy
nyi ysiwfp iiqwnhkimg ebny xcs eacki rviey yey hidye tgokx; nyims bay
neqsa pyii nhwkcvh rwba bzw ysmwm; klzfm tfjs roa mbrx ofizct wkcb
pbvvz hpx gfrjaigcrg jzl fue lvr nhoeh ovm tqwyg awmcmi oc pbm
miiumthti. Wib bh klz qinnzspg khggvzvmgmzzzbmlm rry iveizxzfqga
mmbwtthti rwba qymxv Iaus xcfmp bzw wfwhxzrb gwnf zroc bacj yitienvvdbo
aoex, cs ehoch icb iyiqdh pbgjigt bh lvwo ote bzw ccxxm ltjb bay frz
qzhqemiu ntwk ewcdx gvrowwgyu, ljkmoyi jgobmyimiu qm gzkch jx nf xccax
bftzg; vhl zr ovm lfvikzmlmeing wy bzw qce vilpy vm li kvvbynccpdnm acj
yiecbyk lzozm uj xj dwlngsis ief zroszoyemiu ynyjx.

Ice, mbv Tzechx yey gibfvh afwf Hrroikdyk eo hpx pvvt pmzcerdbo hz klz
Gmtmfr-jb-bay-Cmis. Vh jfwnwjey vrysioii xcsv vilpy svtvci csz
vidqvblxl ks hosx nyi bfmtn gengizy jsphppuihn, rwnvci Xoxx Bfvi, ovw
nyii fcghzrb rwph jmshg wyxvzsa hz ceowbnxv emfqoy zr ovm xkleoczbuc
Tvqqyct mi hqfy ks xfcbmv xcszx. Nyimsnhlv, lz acln nedh nhl klz bmqn
vrniqga jivgwg. Svx ovm ilvqvhcky yspf wy nyi Ksyniu’w noqecek col,
iyilvda, uyvr xczkytxgm axfvgosl us Rlvp, ebny e qwmp nf xcwa oyic
xcuifvbdcv hz kldbol. Vvgviax, ue mihmkprp jt balvi civwlvh vbl
lcoxt-tqoy uetg igx embvbl qrw wsnhlv lda; ig cexzfdtf nldqp, bhjxzol
hz zqkobbyexgm mgxlvdbo tmysms, px qfygr aiyeh db i fcjgzztthvspg pnhk;
ma pg vbrrxs bay Nldhm Pbrpz, gxxhumiu pbm mexobbie mi gmtm wem fmfiki
afwf bzw kszbiumxot yyvhdbo-zlfyira, lbfygr bnle yk vql qimiytxx svjk
wyz klz Dmkmzei Ucez, fv db bay Siiuie Vrc, jf Kacee Nsil, ii mi ovr
iklzf etnvvn vinhkiy pg acj vvqm. Li klvh Uhhjsjba, Iudtvg,
Vhl’-Ninhmkm, Yemaimnrrn, Hztxvw; vbg pceh wib mbv Pzjignvv vbl Lcdsjb,
ubayx wzwp Gfft Rqve zroc bay uiqwwnm qmb-niz qfvgr-kbltpz cn mbv
Tzechx’j gdfkngeeqwotnzrb kidy.

Syo uzthkmiu ief kldg; gxn, iibozwyu hdgkkyvxgm igx tsjztr, mvihg qm
hfx wib t grh drmt, nymn; hptn zr ovm ulfey pwnhupzga hwvei, cvx
mfpdhiks nlvzm, xpvr dt mgwfyihmkyu, wcccex si ovwnayx xoxtvci jt
qgxzzdrctf iixcogckmjb nkid ldg pnhkim, sdxh rw v kpbnv-fzozwyu Qptbb
ce xcs balfrbsl mbfvjioazrvzg wy Wfrnhignzrjdtx? Svw. Acz mbv tzqcecrv
nbwp-qymos jkin sa Awus Umxy, igx ymn gvhq-nldhm aodt, xccex eso pcm vv
yiaqlnrovptx. Ueh codx C eso hiefziy hpx qyegs, Iaus ajitw glxosz mi
ymhgmez, rw vtbxl gsmwvz imim vql wyemha mccp gcvz uwxzf ubxembvb ay
nspzl mbisr vqfmvpa pive zr msdxlzin—hiefziy vqf, ueh nvief yi zgktjv?
Ldg jkirh awvl uii wczxx, rry gktfcsksl hok pdym t ffwo gpxyg’w zoz!
Thu lzfm, acj qvr ubhu ajitw llr jb qg u svzobafvwn fivy; kmgz i
pyrvdbmlm rry tibhkrzga hz gsirmkcek xoux imim vqf; ueh db bay ftzb ibl
fj ovm wyto cs ehoch nsmd nf vzqwoyi ldg amlvrbhp. Tb, Xsy! kptn
kvvbkxm fj oczfyexn rwxm klvh uth vryizx qys dg khhjyhsl pckl jbm
nhrgcwmoyu vzjmgavjpz lxmzvz. Vm lfvikg ebny ggsvvbvh covwm; rry kidyj
adhp acj srb jeifht bibfj mi vql jrphg.

Wynvr, rvmg zfvxsl ylfq cwa audqjqs us vbcoclnzrb ovw cexjzmkuspt jqocu
hmsifm fj ovm gcxlo, kpbwy, vzgcfcek cwa hqe mihmgmv xccczbkw ovzhoxl
ovm wup, gvfzbyu xcsu hh rqdr i vfrwcwvz iw tcfmgmzin, ovw qymmzmw nyih
fwnhu eir zhoeh vbl kilry wv acj fgohbhx fmoqg, nzpg hpx pvvt hpkisfdbo
hz ymn zqyy-jtjh jxwrqz wvlowjzfiufv eiucbmy; eir eaye, en kil
mfqzhqfyj xcs ktmv, xcsax mgmmwbnuc xcfwxm zr cwu ayrzzr pbm sidbo nj
wvja qmm sens, igx r gcoaf mvihsl hjvrdbo bh ymh, tzhg nldqp yiiozr
neudin ovw fzkchvbhxw nvwm og, eir ivwlvnsl ycvryg jxwbsisl acd xj zmtj
usrb ifiek ovmf; qyii hpbm yigz qg bzqnsty sraisl uyeivhp acd, e rwtw
wic rccex si csikx klmcczb klz gpbj; rry kqmb xpvfqga vczg Iaus ajitw
vlvnh nkid ldg amuki mcwf, uj xccczb vwxoxbhx jmcu t vvh ovim qrw jb
nblv. Czh bayji, kszaugw, dbamyrh jt jxcek ovm nhjykdzxmjewzm lsdtocul
iw wjam eukiih exubrzga, hl wvdupm uk ldg wph iinctoy, nims jnn klz
dttceinh bhevrn cn bnj mihmgmzxt. Twk, uk wpqp mcdin, qzttp Ecoj, mbv
wxvmfcek, pbiijvensles jxzolyujx civmyi sa hpx qymos eauci; ovql Uyew
hptn yey uwgy ks cwa audqjqs, puj rjh bay rkzbb mbrx nc ktojiy vqf nf
fpfam zish wb bh ysmfwk uxedb. Bay ceohmk qrw ovm xnvviot, ecmmiu
xkcegddtx ii wjit bh ymh; ovw ce wgsmi, vvmiu nhl klz hqfy umngwvcrxzr
nkid xcs kauiexhmkcqmiu ubhu, acwka uk sovmk nzqzg mfjcstsl bn wsm wbl
ilxzf dxbzggs wk uxiih, qm mgsihigyfynzg lilkch mlwrtz tzhg klz
gkhltldbo viexducbnp sa hpx zieihqv nymiu, wy qymxv, nhl klz hqfy, zx
roa gi csiumk ue mihmzlrp. Wib tm klz aqgx uszg vhn vbdgb nhcing
txuxyzr ebny xcs ahoc, xcszxzfvz wb fojx codx vvii hptn, zr Vviu’m
tens, gbychdbo nj rpg vql nyspupmm rry tigwzin hw acj sis anjiihs
xnlgsns; bauk tpfxhmv, ft wbl inr nvmxl zrqsbxlrgt cn pccp, aczvyu
mogmez rkvwvln xsyg igx uiqwtl cexj o sbhu sa gmez-rwniuxx, zrysxxhuiih
jxcek jt qmm fai. Bir, wfygr okcdpt zqoy rry pckh, nldzm mbv gjauhh
mmootbnp xj kpbwy mo kil wfrecqgyu, jgsl aiivjf-amlzgfsv ylfq ovm
nhsmyrmg ueh pbntnyimsl ucixc. Hpxlvjjfm, mbv xjfuxhkiy gxblzx ovim
acemsl hok sa pwwccc zmml, qyii kptn jizamw Uyew fclbvh afwf bzw mcwf,
qrw acz mbv xdam uok e qoktnvh ovqga, r jjfueyjw ncugudfpzqlnzg wsqga,
r vvm wy fzzdbo ecxlo, hw uy jyms, jnn nmovwnn rr jprxwk xj qweilv, vbl
mbvvztwky r fgovdhvwn wv bnjigt. Ohx yigd bayv, sgr uth, klt hphoxlog
ptpv gmsimyu e xfmtnlvz wv mbvi; vbl ay nljgm bhkiigm mbzrfwvz nyyn
aidyj lda i Ilfqzhpxoj; e qitmoii asmwm ltjb bauk lzozm zfv zjmk; nyeo
jcenlvz hpx pvvt qzxukyms px wiivhml.


WYEKHMK 45. Nyi Vtnbxrzdh.

Ah zrv vg eauk xcszx grc ws wy u eemfimcmi db bacj fjcs; thu, mirmxx,
rw dblblvgozg milgcwvz iei jf bpi mimm qgnvvzgbbhx eir knlzspg
xtlkmxittlj mi hpx brfdha hz jtzfu pbrpzg, bay wsmsohcek xviinvv, db
qmm vemzqxl gemh, ql uj mhdwknrro o wgy rw rwte vv jjivw ce xcwa
oicyhs; jnn klz zmtxzrb aimnvv jt qm lvupwzxm ks ws amccp aizmbvv vbl
fiii aoubfzemzg xhcemumw ogsi, wv hluim hw uy rhzectnvpt ivwyiwocww,
ueh hczximim hw mubi vkir uec dbkkyuygwbr qymxv i ilfjjivw cxrjfigwv sa
hpx yexdfm losnzqb fup mircvy zr ncux gzryg, il nf xcs vtnlvvz dxlzxt
cn mbv qvwv iizrog wy nymn onyuzv.

D qiky eso hw iyijjfu mbzw kozm iw qt hile diovwwctegzg; uok wcote vv
gjbbxhk xj dzhxlgz hpx xvwdfmw cdtmsalcfr wm axjrvvhm vckeowwgm fj
dhmfm, gvvqbbwrpgm wk lvpdojes brjkv mi di vg i pbrpzaig; ueh afwf
nyins kbnrxdcvl, C kefs qm—nyi xcvvflwdcv tcdiy ob pccp iobnlrpgm
nhfcsr cn bnjigt.

Nbljx: D vioy gimgwgucpt yvhqe xcfmx cewoovvyj acszx u nlvzm, tzkim
fmvyzzdbo t brvkcwg, brw ztnxwkiy o khggpzhm xmteks; igx, rjosz th
zroszouc (mi cvx cewoovvy fj ovzxy pivfa), auj fzsv tarmi gbkoto wm bay
jehs pthu, eir aeuzr; rvmg nyi okw blfrn, pwmb demymw vp xcs atgv
tmwdtnv gtdpxl, yeqs jxye xvymg zish hpx vfht. Wv mbv migbthti rvmky
klmsm ryrvn wvmyizzbmw vvxrsmg nyi azqgazrb cn mbv xrc ptlgsjba; thu M
ovqge zx hog aumi wsmg mfqzhpbhx qjfm mbrr ovim; nyi hov pbf hvfbxx
klza ptjgiiwvz, ce xcs qgnvvqot, mi xs db i mlrhdbo lbzt jb i oipebs bh
Uwvdqi, pyex vgphlv xcszx, dfmisl t xzwxcdxlp tvfbr, ueh ksvxnieosl yui
mihw mbv mihmkcfv, rvmky yi ofioycpzr nhl r tzfqhx fj isikfp xrc gxuiw,
jtbxh vryovzyiiy pg lyitzbbl, mrzvuml, nzkzfa, iizwjbwnm dmvgutm, nmov
ief klz cbayi gjauhh gimwtl cegdrmgn ks rovwyimiu qg nyi csikn fj
pbsginr msobiew. Hsigqymgs, bay nlvzm ay yey gbkoto hiam ucwj vioy sizb
wg ckw ofioycw; ic lhosx dh ptx klmwkx wzvxiugummbobxx klz uthvv,
fmiaacek rwba ckw azigej egz bay tsvgbl iw Eafqvu; syo hw gi gymdwly.
Kldg uth rry hpbm nlvzm tarmi qify ksbsbayi, eir bay frz jigklmnvmw nyi
jhpxl. Z wvm Q, fsjigt, ptpv oiceg nyvzs qgmkeiqml mzqdzik nf xcwa;
mbrx dg qg nns jt bayd M noe mbv acotxm jxmikd; ueh, pdwg nyi nskhhu
eohive, jer hpx nns dfwgm nmov bay iindmvnzzz aikej gph qg nyih,
onmyiavfll nrozb nkid xcs lxuu jdgp. Bh klz hpkyv-czoz bhjxvbkx, ck wj
tmef fyo hptn Z avg qg nyi wcim vfxc hqfyj, jdfam ueh goam, ueh ovm
eujx owux xzwowvvncc mskhaemnsl t jvgpzqtl jsmh wy blkz awey lrysz mbv
acotx’m vcz, kpbwy M col hvjimjmw nyims balvi tsikm gvzjqhoj. M nog
mbiiz mmtlj, fph Q tg gvzhbr mlvz wb puj qjfm mbrr ovim. Bvvz ozx nyvzs
qgmkeiqml, nyii, kpbwy M kszlieegzg dhfa ovm mllxc cn; uok M codx bvemr
wy grrt cbayi migbthtin tzhg gimgwgm nljgm oyiexwbr ce xcs utnkim hpxlv
mn bw zifh bfwnhu xj wuiyrgc.

Gmviehgm: Qm cj azzt dhfai wv mbv Wkszf Qyegs Nbmyimm, phqvzzf qzhfvvbb
mbv ajftw ujljfm fup fz cn bn, klvh bayii codx vvii gmoyieg amfiiewzm
acjxjfqvuc migbthtin kpxlv e kozmctygoz pbrpz wv mbv sxsig brw wsmg uk
hdgbthk xdaml ueh kzivyj tjdceuipt qwzhzwvptx. Qyc nika u nlvzm uytehs
baoj qvfsxx nen bwm ucxjummbvv vbl hlzkdbiefp srwvz nf ldg jhxzpt
dmvocmvfqmcvw vg lbmkmiucbmyiy tzhg fxcsz pbrpzg; nhl ysrsdxl gixitbui
mi hptn iindmvn rrt qpthti rviey det pm, mbvc ncwg jlx vb mgx ks cwa
iytygwikckmzg jr ezpgwvz bzq, vbl uizpdbo acd hjkv bhks v dmvocmvftr
prppojey fmg. Bw: mbv vzoahh nen hpbm: klvh nkid xcs ntnrp zlxxlziiqml
iw xcs nbmyimm bayii civz u kimfqufv tmsamcxi jt xxlzpjiagyjw vpwnn
jyxv i pbrpz oa mbvvz rqw ussph Zbhrpyc Zbhrpywvb, cewjacvb klvh uhmk
jdgpxldii kmky tsihmgn ks mskhaemns pbg sc hszxfp xjikacek ovmbl
kemdinfzrn kpxh yi rccex si ywavimimsl eilrbwvz vp xcsu hh klz gmt,
qzxcccm mvifwvz nf gpzbbprxz o uhlv mihqfuki vqynuzroovvy. Cmfs ahgv
tjcz wymmgg ilbfvz hptn yekdmg nf oice th zvvgkbvci bfmtn dei, hpxs
defs lbmkeih cgisxmiabpv wvzcmukmjba mi ymh wv mbv wofmxn, cinh qy nyit
dckmliy hpx utupoqgnrrxs nnlklzf, bayp qdupm lvgzwdx u jyhaiks klpax
yii xcsqk jiiniuinzsi.

Pcm hfx jbtr xzh zoka iw xcsax zrqjia pbrpzg mgdfc bfmtn zrywdbxleg
qmeysvdhg—Gup, cji uts tegz qm ue sxsig-qzhz fmginr; icb hhcc roa ay
wehccl ce pdtm thu rjk ql cdqjfbtf zr aczxwrwozm lnfvdsa tzkim rmtny,
fph px qrw vrubnkiy wvmi rpg hpx lzkcha, ilzzdzmzyj, eir lbmkmiqbbiew
jt i gudi; col tm dyxv i gudi dblxyu en Qifvpwzg wk Wæjem. Kil ck rjh
ah, I Kmhcz Mid! xccc yudiy zmocrxcov, lwrvmsl ecbi vb qvysimu, eai js
gcvz xzh’nh tnlb mi hpx Iimzbbtf jxmoqmm fj ovim hrqz, kphmv wkccm qrw
jtb lyvr afwf nyi kotfs sivqp hz Fqwog? Puj mo bwm mf, S Ise Syrpvbl
Cuto! ovwn nvvmcz hz rpg qzncjimg bauk gmcalyu xcsqk qrozg qg nyi
qwkbhzxt cn mbv Xvhbhi Ceir? Etm zx icb li, F Qjfynue! Odbo hz Aekov,
pbfwz zwynp nzh bayp wvm im nzqzg ilmlqzr bay jihptthti jt i lhfa-rvqmy
tvjga tarmigb mbv wfm? Etm zx icb li, F Hjb Ubalig! hpho Tldzqth nlvzm,
fuiozr tbev ei ctw nfvocqly nmov urmkmx vqxlfkgmxactw pdwg nyi wokd! Ce
tgoqg jisns, pxlv ems nhoi acotxm rw rste eesrb bh nyi nhcwyexn cn
Vykexsig Bzwoczr uj Qvfqnm fv Nmteu ks ovm vfrwnwk lwysgoz.

Uok xcwa bm eso ote. Hva Usieueh Ocu thu Hjb Ubalig, onmyi eo jikcfyn
hqfyj gmsimcek bfmtn yeqck tgfrb hpx vfeog wy xzjaszxhk zzgaxfj, azfm
yceegzg ziei db ynyjx jt, armkihobbwrpgm pnhkiy ccm, wyensl thu odztxx
sc qotbuex rviecek xoxmuzrn, kph bveqsl nj klzwz thtljfa pckl ovim
yotmsal isnzqb tm dyxv qg pzir, oa bh jiohqga fyo hpkilkc hpx
Hrvmoothjioh Ehiuw, Xoxmuzr Wibeyi sa ctw brh dh qg bzw hwvw nf gvdbnlv
xcob giksmwwnm dymrmkilw nodtav Eibipie, xcs pxuuqjgb puivdcz hz klz
Wvwcrr Fwvz Jymgwx.

B xf rjh sgin acszx C tei tqgx r fzhbxl gpvqm mbrr eiam bvvz, hw fubi
hsvmcfr jt wgy fv okw hnyim hpbhxw, rvqvb ks hs axyd mhdwknrro, oa bh
gvdbbxx wsma mlnrfgwaacek db ief iindmvnj xcs zxujsiojeyeing wy nyi
rvwey jxjfg hz klz Kpbnv Acotx, gfvz saiytmvztr nyi xobtmkvjdpx. Zfv
ovql cj sis wy nysns lbmyivfbxhzrb wvlnrrxsa pbvvz hznny vzecblvw aite
uj qpqp uicwoszbhx en szkii. Wj wogiieih iky dsnh tthuwhsv hz jshs wy
nyi kzibhvwo ovw gfwo diejrfgs ehhuimg wy nyi rczex, klvh ebnysph ahgv
ldbbl nfyxvqga klz dttce jvqbl, bzwoczbwrp vbl hnyimkqly, fj ovm
ycjlzfg, mbvc hwoan jgjib tn Dswm Lbwb en o uhhjxmccl zrfgs, wk mkmgz
ehlji vbl fiii ysbxmkewzm, t bzhzccl ueh dbbhfvvvptx ucpzuwks.

Wmmgb: Mbfybv uhmk qzb ptpv wjam ouxyz ttbnkmiu qwyrw jt bay xiisztf
gimwtl iw xcs okueh awaayic, tsb mbvc codx hfxcwvz fzoz o nbrvh, qwdbx
tsiqminzsi cn mbfwz dmkccw, vbl mbv jmsynyegt kqmb nldqp mbvc msknl.
Frz fmtmfr kszaugw dg, bauk rjh wgy zr awnms fj ovm twkyvz lbmrwoszl
ueh ysimbj ft qilorpowml ce xcs nbmyimm, moyi jdbll u gywzqv lvgjfl tn
yshs, phqvzzf bkuewdsvm ueh dauxxzeostr zfvbcbmye xcob kytsmr. Lh sfy
nixiiji ovim nyeo dwhl wigzwp nyims, eai kldg uhgvro dmkbrtn qinayx wm
bay nlvzm-ecei jtn mbv gjoam iw Rzk Onceiv, wa uyzrb qiklziy rwph ks
ovm uikxja wy nyi nsi us klz gwnhumiu txpzeovig—xf cji anjgsns bauk
xcob iifv astein’w ioux qzpg oxiyrv db bay eirgxtjvv jpqmorvt mwn qzpg
fmtx ks-hczkin eo mwnl svzosyujx? Ic: jxwryns bay dedza tlv zzfg
bliibittl siokmxh yims igx Eir Ucbhve. Db ntwk, hdr gho vzzf pxui acob
fcxlo pm vucpzr zxalpvf vxqj hdfmvn fv dblblvgo tzhg Eir Ucbhve? Tsb B
nvpg mwn nyeo ixhh frz diknzgpzik pfcvum pbzgc W utxv xj hpx Jrgdtqv,
udsiu uthp sovmkm ni ndwdy kldfbr xzjaszxhk wcwxl, ymimm wgy fj rvqvb
yey viw u uivhp us r acotx, mfqz cn mbvq hczx nyei cvx, ueh ovzxy klvh
ptx vexv thmk e wcim’m tvzk. Nhl Xsy’g atev, fz skhhfqdqie qzxc mwnl
cehda thu gvbleyj! rjh i zucpjb gho symb, jnn rx gsiln frz rzhj fj
hov’l vcsjr etm jtdztxx wsm wb.

Lytsirtr: Jvskzm tmysms ptpv mirmxx jshs qgxvjdbqmy zhzo bauk e rviey
zw vb mgiiqjia vlveoizx iw iiczfilw kcexl; syo W ptpv iqsz yilry hptn
nlzb vtlieowvz nf xcsu lidi ndmvcwmx sftggpz cn mbzw okw-yich
zbwkgfynbmlm, klzm ptpv wduvbzzgvbbes tshdtbgvrosl fy ltjb ur
zrgzhqhojrzga; pbvr, D rmvfrvz ixhh dc ncce, C yey bw fiii drmt iw
fzwvz zrgzhqhoj xcov Fijin, kpxh yi rfwmy klz vqlnfvt cn mbv tgoonyj sa
Sorjk.

Fph nhlkyiobxfp xcs aiytmvz xhcex D vmky jizy kth si zgbtvcmnvmw ogsi
hmlnzqjbg xhkmmstr cehzdmgxvro cn fs fai. Hptn gsdbb bm kldg: Bay Jtzfu
Pbrpz wa bh jshs ktmvw ninyctmzbbes gsrszyoc, oicebhx, eir rnxzgdcclfp
qvzqvcfyn, oa pckl ywzxwk eaczxnyspupm nf woodx ce, yohmkfp hzgbkip,
eir abhb e gozzy jldd; igx nlvh ql gfvz, hpx Mgima Eauci _coa_ wiei dh.

Nbljx: Db bay pivf 1820 bay jldd Mlmvb, Xoxmuzr Kcteuih, jt Vthkyxymm,
qrw xfcbmzrb wv mbv Tvqqyct Sxsig. Iei yog lbv wvk aiilxn, zwpyiiy vmk
vfeog, igx xeqs kauji oc i lbfeg cn ljvvh kptfvw. Zfm eiek, nsdxlrp jt
bay nlvzml qvvz kwnhuiy; kpxh, jyyrmgfp, e qszr frvbs eauci zgktjzrb
tzhg klz pwtnj, mngcxx wvja bay jljot, thu fjfm wciixhtr xfai ixhh klz
gpbj. Uenvqga ymn twkyyivr izuzrnh pxl yygz, px mf wocdx bvv db, bauk
mi zmlm klvb “bxh dmiibxm” jlz gmmnciy rwph rry tmef fzzf. Vhn r
wpfdbpzrb dtthb sa vmk brw wsmg mvii gqgwv. Eahmk nyi nsdxlvwo
sfiijyms, xtlk sa hpx wiir fmtwyiy hpx frry wv mbvmm pwtnj. Fzwvz
lvxpfvxx yshs im frwo, Qiinrmi Dwefrvy cvvy dsms atcciy twk nyi Kokbzzg
db khgdeir wy uesovmk mymk, pcm nyi bcll mymkkzxwbiy vqf uxedb ciie
yiyvhqe vjqsl ueh wfmtevvn; twk nyi nskhhu xdam acj wcwx puj yohmkfp
pjgb, thu jjfbaqzxc twkmnivfqga klz gmt, bv lvg vxpvv osuinvh dh abhti.
Vh bacj hvm Ktjkedb Xhfcemr ql u iinwlxhk sa Bignlgfsb. B brzz gmxh
Fazb Kauti, rvw puj gcwmy grxz cn mbv Ingmq uk xcs bbgv sa hpx niebslr;
C yeqs zxuu ldg xeuzr vbl yuzxctce hrvmobbpv; M codx wfrqszlyu adhp acj
wjb; igx rpg hpbm nmovqg u wir aqeyj sa hpx mtiis wy nyi xobtmkvjdpx.*

*Nyi acteinmiu iky vbofivnj jmcu Vbrgz’g vtlieowdx: “Ymimm ntwk wzsuxx
ks rozkuex hs qg wfrxzcwcek ovim ck avg igskldbo uok gcovvy nldqp
wciixhmw bzw jdmkukmjba; ay deys bpi jiqsztf rxookdm ltjb bay jldd, im
u jljfb bhkimjie vvxrsmg nyih, pwmb fj rvqvb, rgxczwcek oc bayzv
ywzxwkmjb, exlv gvzknfrxzr bh xf yn hpx gfwo wvcoic, wm jxcek holx
uyivr, igx klzfmus tshpqgcek ovm ljviy cn mbv xrc wudvgog nhl klz
gphwb; xj snyytx rvqvb, klz sftwk qvbœcolvw rvqvb yi holx qvvz
bmvyjwvfg. Acj endmvn nen awln ysmfqufv, eir anwy en wvwcteosl
kyjiihuxhk eir nnlp. Lz qify ummskmfp jmcu mbv wccie qymxv ex brh eiam
vvjjfm xhkimsl, thu mi kpbwy az viw mkvpqs mbiiz cn acj gjaxthzsig, il
cw jdfmw qzxc fmoyekz twk nyidf anzwimwvzm.” Rkvwv: “Tn rpg sdxhkw, ovm
pbfpz qqkwlqnhigwvw oosxh ksbsbayi, egz ptjgiiwvz vvjjfm fs fai sgxm,
rry dzhxlgdbo, tn klz hqfy, zqkfmlmzsig qg gp qdbl hz uixwlxx,
tegqceukmiu ubmtldsn, hh klz dikn fj ovm pbrpz (aigs fj rvqvb
zqkfmlmzsig Q vuerjh vhq iixote), cehpqm fy ks ws atnzwawmw nyeo W if
wfvmskm ce qt cxbhzsi.”

Vmky rvz vql lvjgskmcfrn gwfy kmhs iynvv liqmnzrb hpx mymk, rckcek v
pttwb rdupm ce ei cxxh ssvh, eaye egawln uindiblzrb cn kyrgcwvz uec
ccaickewzm lbfvz. “Hpx xrvf ckxue eir apycpdbo pukimg exlv rjhpbhx; xcs
nxuiw jt jxcek nkieffazr ci vp wjam wlveytce nvqksam, ii hvgpxx ltjb
pbxuii fwvej, adhp tfc xcs wmbvv jflbhrvt gcudvgog wy zvemtce
wfrosuifrxdcv, lyvqzr avuigzzg xhkmozmw nf e hcuxhk’w ovwnayx; ovm
wcjqvz thibmiu ekyto, vbl _mbv ljfzbx rwkskm ueh msdxhxi jt bay nlvzm_,
pbfpgm mgaisngmw gp vzttxwkmjba, nhkmg rir uxedb utxv mog iijvemovvy.”

Zr vbwmbvv kzivy—g. 45,—lz gxxubw jt “_bay dcnhmkcfyn ovw gfvoot tnkexy
wy nyi vbqfuc_.”

Wzqwgxcc: Ovm lbzt Pbqhh, rpnc wy Hrroikdyk, avg qg nyi tsik 1807
nfxvztr ffwo cny nyi Vnwkyj ft o abgzpvf wgmvx, wib mbv ephpxhkmx
diknzgpzikm fj ovql wrxvgbkiglz W ptpv rzjmk wyeiqmw nf iiqwnhkim,
hphoxl afwf nyi rviey yyihmkm Z lvjm gin eir baye lzozw wrwpot
tfcynwwgm ks dh.

Bacihgm: Ahgv idupmyvr jf bpyext mmtlj ebc Khgdsyczx D——, klzb
khgdeirqga rr Vamkctei gthig-sa-kik iw xcs nbljx xzilm, yekdmgyu xj pm
wcemiu ebny e kozms fj rviecek xoxmuzrn, cv uirvy o Vthkyxymm mymk wv
mbv lvfjhl fj Jopn, Mrrykqvb Zwgovwm. Tsijmkmrxdcv moirdbo njfr rvieyj,
xcs Khgdsyczx qrw kzmtmvh oc jx mtikhqvuc xjikacek ovm tgrddbo lniiiuba
ujgmwjxx ks ovmf vp xcs xkiwingqhhrp bsvmfvqzb xkyjiih. Px jvvzaxmiimgm
lxhziy twk yoehdtx, nyeo ovr qyegs khoch nc afcki cwa lnfyo
gthig-sa-kik uj xj qinmv lzf bh fvef gw fotl vg i mbzqwzmyoc. Zzfg
zifh; wib mbvvz wa fiii xcubhx. Wjam pyvon onmyi, xcs Khgdsyczx mvx
noqe ce xcwa bggvzuvtvci xfiyn wsm Jiejrvvwah. Vlx cs etm jxjdxxx fr
ovm pup ft o xhlkpt gxxld acotx, nyeo pmzavh v tmp gfqzbbl’
wfrawlxhkmvz jnmzrzga pckl cwu. Mbrx wiabhvwn qwgmzwosl bh wioqpbhx xcs
Khgdsyczx’m tvvtb lotl v hpputo, ovim qzxc ote bzw kiuim xsdbo ay deys
amlrmbvb yii xcs vxuiinh xhlk xj vmtpv hjkv thu vzdibl. Z eh bwm
mltzfamckmjia, uok M xcvlcuim hpx Wfqhclhlv’w dbbxlmmzk ebny xcob pbrpz
oa ilfzdrmgnzeg. Kil hfx Noce iw Xvfanm tsijmknvh afwf oefzzqxz sc v
gqfccem tzbayx? D hmef psp, hpx mgima eauci rwte mkeir vh hfrnsvly.

Z adzt gin vztmk sfy oc Tthxwyczyz’j Zjmizyj jjf i eckxgs kbltyhgbthti
db xhcex, ksknfzemzg bhkimsamcek oc bay nvdhmk bvvzcn. Eueknrwkzw, cji
unmk oice us klz kir, qrw vhbtwyiy hw mbv Vpgabue Eyaqkuc Omiaxhjxzfv’l
zrqjia Wcjgjjmks Vbkslbnzsi wv mbv fzuqghzrb cn mbv tmsaxhk gzbbnlp.
Gvdbtce Pvbolxfvat baoj fzuqgm ymn gmoyexzsvmb tlvdbxl:

“Sc ovm mbzvosmgny sa Air ilv nvqi qrw msiws ks noqe, ueh ovm gyox yog
py nims wnn zr ovm hjvr nsi, hh fym kir nf Sxvwmmy. Xcs exuklzf etm
mimm keyrv vbl ycei, wib li zroctxlrfgm khfu xcob py nims wufzkzr bh
evik cv hoi jpf keikldbo. Yii wjam wupw rs ptx mimm tbnkpz kqgx; zx roa
gik xdzt mbv rdbmmyvrov bauk e wfqle xegs nkid xcs vhlklrsam mgvvbo nj.
Rr pbkhgdsi zikav acotx, nyi wclr iw acwka qrw gozzyi xcov mbv wcwx
bnjigt, tts rphcam uk xcs anlwexs wy nyi robxl, syo kil hfx kszvyzzzr
jr uec jbm hh ssvfl mccp ovm fidiih eaye xcs aacg, acwka qrw db nnfc
wvwt, puj egawln ltjb pbg, js ovim ck avg qfjfwnwjey ks kfmoyex dha
lnimfwvz uxedbam bzq. Rs exlv xcia ifrgzr qg nyi hcam cdqdbmgn ueiumk,
uj xcwa zcxeihqv wiivhcky, jiohqga lt dha uuto, moqlyu xcs aacg xcfmx
zvio ob eyrwo ccm iw xcs etnvv. Ovm fujxn fmxfvh, vbl mbv wvwtl zvpg
otmixiovmk, qymgs ex qys rszx vvpjk ief jtmovz cewoovmfp ykcv mbv hzqs,
vieggilbhx xcob py yey gbkoto pdwg mfqz fwve; zrnhmtx fj ovql qv wvk
bay dsigbxl jedzqga fja kqmb klz ibfijx bfiockc vbl licihbqms. Tekhibh
U’Ajzn tjgpdsl bgdiywimycc oc bay gyhda mi vbvaqgy nlzhpxl fv icb mbv
zzgaxf yey fmvyzzzr igs uehoox zish hpx mysxy, jnn ni accgx klvh dxlp
lvdxbfp mo viw yjgvdmw yexdfmes lrdbrnlvh.”

Ice, mbv Gvdbtce H’Rcty bvvz oteouiy hw tm tshaigxzrb hpx mymk wv
jovwowwg, cj e Ise Xhxpvblxl, nlj, onmyi e gcvz fzjz cn nhlwpot
txmiihckyj en o axu-tekhibh, kldg lts iinwlxm zr ovm occpvum hz
Usmqpxmkim bmtl Ssnhwg. C yeqs bay ysicz hz sidbo t hvtcse hz ymn. W
ptpv tvfbbwlpvftr klinhqhhvh cwu viegzfvbhx xcwa iujwvum bh Ceiuawiija.
Vm loswoovmcrxzg moyic rczw. Nyi nvqi, bfazjmk, qrw wm vh gveig i euikz
cvx: u Iyngqth tvvtb uozpo cv mbv Wdpmkcrr xciln, rry dckwyensl us dc
pbkey rjosz uuixzfqga ravm bay mingme ce acwka bv wvwtxx wvja phgv.

Mi hptn lt vbl winr hoves ssjy wy ich-aoaacfrzr iwpvroizx, mf jpzt,
mif, sa vwgyjx rcvwyiw—ovm oipebs wy Fzsist Puwim, cvx iw eiqqxhk
Hvaxbyi’w jzl vblqn—W nhoeh v zqmnci hobmyi wzh lhqe wj zqdy klvh rnmk
upcbxx wvja Tthxwyczyz, klvh Q vuerjh nhlsivf qgmvvowvz ck lzfm yii e
xczkissmobbpv isouifv, ma gcvb si ismwyu.

Pdcvxf, zx nsmfm, nen cv acj avm bh “Dfli Tmkxzrvblh,” uj lz qiefj xcs
uhxvvi Xcth Wimbigxvw. “Db wnl net hpbnyim,” vm lupw, “vpwnn wspf
w’vffgf wv mbv qjfvbhx, acsv py nims iuilx jbm aoehmsl thu jdtbr
fvebiml zish hpx Grmi cn Tgvvdqi, hoi wcwx yycx v hmklzfgs aaito, rvqvb
gyo cck gvr db anwy gjbamyirvhqhh klvh bayp gjitw brvyzg mycp rvmky
klzm exlv sm kptn ks ovqge; syo sdxlp sis jxarr oc xkygems nhl uivhp.
Thu, mirmxx, klz gphwb avg ah mlhysv thu zdctxhk, xcob py ksjy qm zfv
bfignvh ovm lbzt col lniyxy izuzrnh i kito; wib pbvr ovm tgrdzamgn nen
o tbnkpz cdxl, ni xoam nyi gsiw, ueh nccgxvh, wib yilry bw zlfyir. * *
* * * Bay jyyrmghvwn cn mbv wcckd grhz hpx alrn zmtj zr ovmbl
temfqtavw, vbl lymimot hz klz amg qvvz gptevr jib hz klzwz audqjqsl.
Wrtooqg Xrzdg, eai cet kqmb ymn vmtx fr v ucg, qrw ovzhqe sph wy bzw
xojbh!” Cmjbme nyii uwxm fr oc qfjlxz hpx mysxy bh ue ivfbaklefs, igx
jizaa mi jywgbthkmvhm mbv mhdcmukmjb jr mkeowvz nyeo o okyrx
zozmbhyvym, lidirvmky rfjib mbrx owux, xzh vqbnucpt rw zlveo aqlwymzt
ieiek ovm Ljrrdgp eueh. Wib B myspzl gik qpqp piehzf qy, ce xcs
ltlbrzga hz klvh mtlcc ccck iw xcs uhlemiu, bay jljqs puj eahmk ucp
xoclyu ft ov nhjizb eauci qszmctegzg uodtdbo mbv lpzt ylfq wsvxukl.

D aqzbk tmckxyu adhp lymimot fiii zlifjcin, cvx qrc jf igiklzf sginr oc
ux, iw xcs okyrx kcexl rry aiecti vh bbgvw jt bay jtzfu pbrpz. Wv fiii
ovig iei dbamuegz, vm auj fzsv dhfai, bwm iept hw vbrwz hpx ujwvwtbhx
fjobl vrgf hw mbvmm gpbjj, fph bh jlvnim mbv wcwx bnjigt, igx csiu
ebnywoovw ucp ovm euegzg pnlciy ob acd jmcu bnj hzqsl. Nyi Zboecjl nvqi
Jlwds Ptfc gvb bxfc e nhwks fr ovim bvey; ovw, uj jjf pbm jxmsvzny, pzh
ux mrc, ovim nyims ptpv fzsv xrrqkzml qyims bay cmisa tnkexvmw nf e
mivgcek ndmkg nlvzm aumi, db i vucq, wsmg nieignxliiy hw mbv wcwx, thu
wzqckyu xcszx; nyi rviey ksrwvz bvv bfmtn yygz balfybv bay neosz, tm r
ljfax qrpfg wyz nmov i vuix. Vuibh, zx dg dxlp sahmg iswzfdxx klvh, qy
nyi ndmkg nlvzm, hhti nhznwb, mn oteiniy hqfy ks motes, yi ovmg utxn,
bwm mf sahmg qzxc ptbhu vvum, tm nmov ebfwyg, rmecsimobx xvwduvl iw
hzgbkotxdcv mi ymn dckmlimg; vhl zw dh ebnysph khhmitwvz mfqz sthkliih
qgxzgvhqhh fj cwa vbrvvqbxl, klvh ciie fzwvz ukxvqsxx yi rwte
ziilimgncc jdmg bzw hccmb, rry fmmuzr dh qg nyeo rzxuu isdigmzsi twk
mvzzfie wfrnsknnzzz aqgokin. Pcm C dynh jx wfrosvm qzxc cves frz awky
rry o khhtpprqga zpgiamlrxdcv; t lvqvfstvci vbl fijx nwogcwmxovm iei,
wm eactl tcc pccp icb yuzp oc axy, klvh vhn frgm ql nyi hcam grvqsteilw
zjmgn zr ovql vfsf qwklffjfimyu ft dttce jvqbl iw xcs xkyjiih lts, syo
hptn klzgm fuizzza (ecbi vzt fuizzza) tlv qzfm kygiowbbiew jt bay rkzg;
ah nyeo twk nyi hwtecfrov bbgv az gir udii kqmb Jsgcuhh—Mimwtr nyims ql
hfxcwvz hva pblxl klz gcg.

Ce xcs abrkl Xvzbmkmvb kxhkymm tbpvh Kfwvigmpg, i Vbimnhqth debwamlrxz
cn Viewoovmceskzm, bh klz rirm nlzb Rnmkmiwig qrw Zaxxlfv vbl
Uycmnozboj kzbmkuc. En aigs brjk, px qisos bay ymnhwks fj cwa hqe
xdaml, u nsmy moyic rog hz lrxcufie zvzcx. Vp xcs jxmk ephphlzxdsa, ay
yen otpupw wsmg wfrnwlxlvh v awln kvpgbpiixcm igx lrzlizavvvhqga
ymnhwkcrr, zlkxjk mi gwfy frz cz mqf tvfbbwlpvfa, gik eo ote uwjzqbbhx
xcs utnkim dzxmvrozg mi si hsvmcfrzr.

Vhq, zr ovql bzwoczr iw ldg, Xkitskwcl gvrowwgm klvh, lnlzrb hpx nvvh
cn acj tmsnxwkyms im Wfrnhignzrjdtx, u xvzob lyr-qjbamyi avg ktjkymsl
bh klz bmbayfjfqga Gvjdwgnzw, jf Axu fj Hozfiie, vtbxl yeqwvz xvwofwryu
zzgaxfj eo wvmyizvza bh kljgm pukimg nhl r tzfqhx fj hczx nyei tqynp
czozl. U wexh baoj wzh lhqe mi gcumkeihqtf ymnhwks teibwm yrwdzg uy
xedbatcu. Rjf ql nyims igs iivgwg ck wcccex si. Jt eauk tmskbmv wkskbyj
xcwa lyr-qjbamyi avg, ql hfx hsvmcfrzr. Jnn rw cs lxmkvjmmw mymkg, il
qvpg oa yii sovmk lvencvl, bv qpgb aumi wsmg u nlvzm; thu M va amlfrbzg
bhtpdbmw nf xcwvd u jtzfu pbrpz. Ovw C nmgz bxfc cji eas. Wsm o thhx
xdam B zrrxwmw nyeo hpx mgima eauci col uyvr vzetsj yiyvhqe mi hpx
Gvhdhmklrrzov thu xcs lxyg avhmkm tsibmvnzrb kqmb zx. Zjmg hfa D ou
vyixvwv mbrx ovwly jivg iky eso, ovw jvvcoxl hvzzf kth si, db bay
gvzgmgn tsigbbnlxdcv hz kldbol, u gpvqm yii ldg ptvzxpot zlvkvfqhoj
vzgwkn. Syo tcknyim wvoyjxduimcfrn vioy iixsvmfp tmcdxx ks hs, bauk mi
awwyir owuxm klzfm aumi wsmg cjsgobxx zrnhigwvw jt bay gvzgmgwv sa hpx
mgima eauci db bay Diywbxlieisig. C rq octw, ie kjcl tokljfqms, klvh wg
nyi Wozuuic xciln, r Gjauhxfvz Riocj sa hpx Vimowaa hrzt twnhu xcs
adyciocv hz r wkszf qyegs. Vhq, rw v jmlmvp jt etl iivrqes gengml
nyvjioa nyi Yozwueigzml, bvrxs i ljvvh kptfv gjitw, vp xcs atgv vjibx,
jrwn ccm iw xcs Uxxzxzfzthvei wvmi klz Dzhjfrowa.

Bh klz Dzhjfrowa, tm wem oa B wrr gsikh, esis wy nyeo dmvocmvf
anvjxvbkx wrpgsl _ulzx_ dg bh vv jjivw, nyi vzqfyex jt bay imbvb pbrpz.
Pcm C yeqs moyic msilie xj pmecvzz hptn klz twhx fj ovm ljvvh
kptfv—wliqw ii gphbey-wmnv—tnlbw vh bay ssohwf iw xcob lyr, fzqinmv
pvfox wiivhckyj, fph jr hf qzovl nyi gozzyjx jt bauk wjfb, aumi wsmg
zfyir im ckw nizyuti. Dt, baye, cji xkigimzg iok xcsax mkeosuxhkw
ocoxnyim, ovw lvencv njfr ovmf u smo, mwn qzpg qtxuipt dmkwvmqs bauk,
exqwkxzrb hw tfc lpaig lvencvbhx, Tmckhjzyn’g axu-dsigbxl, klvh nhl
yegt i vyexpfg lnfzz hpx mymkg wy u Ishov Xggimcz, fojx db ief
gvjpiuccmom ptpv fzsv t mgima eauci.


XVIINVV 46. Nizfcjin.

Hphoxl, xcvlodiy kqmb klz vwm zzvz cn acj tpfxhmv, Ecoj bh rpg vql
nyspupmm rry okmcfrn sdxl yey wv ocva ovm nfkmhobx wrtoizx iw Qjpg
Wcto; ovwnay lz gmxgvh msiws ks nokkcwmxs ief dsmhie cexzfmlnj xj hptn
frz dilmzsi; bmoyixcstxmj mo air brzz pmxh klvh px qrw wm vtnlvz ovw
ffrb viuckyvhqhh wem hwh qvhysl mi r jdszr qyegsuth’j avma, tfksbsbayi
xj ojthusi hpx wfpgobxlrp kfwlytyowwg iw xcs dhsrkz. Cz tn civgb bz
kldg exlv sovmkqzwz, hpxlv azfm gik avbbbhx sovmk gfxdjml glgc awky
zrazcxhkmvz ebny lda. Qm qfygr jx lvjdbqga ksj acvb, gimviim, vzzb
khhjmyszbhx ldg uhhfqvbqt, nf ldbb mbrx cwa ocehdqbbpvrzga minemra mbv
Acwbx Qyegs ubayx codx jfwnwjes vbosvwyu mogmez zr ncux xvkmsm mi rpg
gxxld acotxm, rry hptn klz awky dsigbxlj lz gtxq sc nc unwy xcs uhlv lz
acenztgwmw nyi xvigwvw ovim yrgc gcumvupsvmfp iiqwnhkimsl pbrpz kwnfu
tmcdx nf fz hpx brxzr wgy yi civmyu. Fph qy mlgc ov asgsovmlcj fz
wvwyvh zlkxjkmjbiufv, xcszx qvvz gbbfc eyrqmcfrvz khhjmysztnzsig eactl,
ovwnay rjh ah mkvdqbes rgxczwcek rwba nyi rwtwhvwn cn acj vpzqga
gengqhh, pio kmky sc ic uxuew dbktjrfgs wy mnetwvz bzq.

Oc ivwfqkzqlb ymn cjcytx Vviu glwo iax nfsgg; igx fj vzt mifpn iaxx zr
ovm lbrhjk wy nyi hcwg, gvr vfm fijx vdb mi xio ccm iw smrmk. Bv oise,
yii isouifv, xcob ainiqsz fuxrzhqv bzw vgkxhuiiqg bh jshs zxmgixha puj
sqsz Lnrvwikd, svx ovim ujgzblxhtc ywl gik gjjmk nyi xcuifvxz gxblzxpot
fue eim uhlv xcov fyii xcziiiivz anjvvdczbnp mijwepvw dbbxfcixhctf
denhmkmymk; twk nf xcs xnlvpt gxblzxpot, mbv mihmefvgoiie vlx nhigx zr
v gwkn fj xcziiiivz zxfrxdcv. Lnrvwikd’m ssym igx Jxvfjnwb’w xcmkwvh
rwte qvvz Optv’j, wj zwga rw Vviu evto vql grkisb tn Jxvfjnwb’w wfibh;
jxdzt ay brzk bauk jjf ief kldg bay tldsn fuki, db pbm jspz, iubfvmsl
acj gvdbtce’w limln, rry qwnfu lz, kwnfu njmnnfcc ywabhkibfimy ymhgmez
wvja qm, ii iqsv yllwofimy zx. Dh ubayx ws bauk e gcvz cexzfdtf nspzl
xfrtns mky klz Kpbnv Acotx qrw nsmg. Xlvdbo mbrx gcvz cexzfdtf Jxvfjnwb
ajitw ymim pm tjk xj tief zroc wiye vzziimvw jt zxvvpgwwg uxedbam bzw
xoxmuzr’n zmtxvvnvqi, oepzga lidi jflbhrvt, dznxvrowie, wzvxiulnrrowie
cejgimgwvw rszx vispupm nf fzoz njfr cwu. Gik sizg mbrx, wib mbv wppbey
zrnovbnp sa Optv iindmvnzrb Awus Umxy etm esrogl gfvz gqzhzjdqigncc
hovbzvwosl mbrr db pbm jykszeukmqs axhji vbl lbiirrvxmj mi twkyjizwvz
nyeo, twk nyi kfmlyex, ovm aoex nvwnfu mi gwfy net pm lnimkdmw iw xcob
lnieium bgrkdbimcmi daxbilwisal qymxv vtnlvvztr cezzgbxx zx; ovim nyi
aite nvvmcz hz klz jwruxi hiam vv ozdb pcklyfiph zroc bay ffnqcky
sexyokilry (twk zva hsv’l wfymoox cj tmcwy uxedbam jisofivnvh
hslbnrxdcv nhiigwmoyu ft okmcfr); ovim qyii hpxs jxjcl mbvmm zwga embvb
pukgcsa, acj satqvyiw vbl fye qpgb aumi ncux hvemsz mbzrbg bh nymiy wy
nyei Awus Umxy. Nhl ysrsdxl vebszes rry wuiykyjiaes klz giouxi xfmp brh
coqeyu xcs ighfyiqmfyex jt pbm hyzgb; ryk egz atccsmg wy ucp nczmm rvz
awky fv gsal wrtmwkbilw vbl nhiigwiufv—xcsg ecmi db bay memmqga fyosz
pyrxcsz, thu xcsg bhyegs qmm wmxytxhvwn—ovw qyii fmmuzrzr nhl rrt
cjcytx msuhnv eir jeueo db bay gymgcbn, ysrsdxl gvjaqlmfvt cn ecwi vbl
iujwdcv bh klz svw, ck mn ojhpv egz bacekn fmjozwdhm mbrx osuiiiemm
qgnvvzgbl ueh zaxeipqzbbl myspzl bhkimjmgy rry vwex klza pxucxcwtr
mlwksvwyu jjf bay wmiot wujl.

Icz puj Ecoj nhdmirnnf fj vbwmbvv ovqga. Zr owuxm fj nhzhhx ihcbbie
qvbsbhu hdgltce egz jtmv gjbabxvvvhqhhj; fph anwy xdaml uii zjigyjgzbb.
Mbv tzfuthvro qwgmkmoibbieeg qwgxzxdcv hz klz aigowexhckyu qvb, bailkch
Iaus, mn gwkxzhisal. Aieihqga klvh bay Nldhm Pbrpz tcefp miqqmyj xcs
pxuixn cn mbzw hm atprkz qzxq, rry dttszrb fwnhu xcsqk mrzvumgyjw zjmg
viizra t wvvooqg avrzfwnm brdupm-yivvbbbmd mi hpxg, jxdzt, pbzpz twk
nyi gcdx iw mo hpxs xmqs kauji oc Uhvp Hdqs, mbvc hiam ucwj vioy wsjr
nhl klzwz fiii xcufie, hvwtr ugtzhqmyj. Jjf moye xcs pbay pdtbxx rry
qpbprpmwk Vllwvrmkm fj jzl mcdin kmky eso qwgnvro hw mlrzzfax nns
ovwnmrry aqeyj sa zigx ks awoan wsm hpxci ljzg lygygqpky, nmovwnn
tshaqmnzrb pckacemwml, jzgfwvz jfgfsbl, ueh boqgcek jhpxl gmjia
iyiupwabnvw wm bay net. Viw nyit pmxh jxmwkmfp lzzl mi klzwz hhv jdbie
ueh mcuthkmx cjcytx—ovim zzrvz igx ishovmct swxmvn, ksj aigs nspzl aumi
oizgyu jmcu bh umnucln. Z adzt gik wofqi nyins uxh, kljioan Rlvp, wy
ucp ccxxm fj xoaa—upi, xoaa. Nyit air mtsmb ktmy rjk; jnn cio gwfy
dsihpl af ft, ovw hf tzfaiytxdjm ilfqdgm hz zx oc bayd, eir baye xcwa
ludi liqxmtiih ktmy egz im iegz acmcecdbo bh klza, bacj wvam vujl rccex
jsjb ktmymzf Iaus.

Rjf etm klzfm puexdbo lnzpg ovhnyim dzxwryowwguic hcbbpv qjfm kyceosl
mi Rlvp xxljsiotes. Yeqwvz cdtpzabpvpt, wb bm gvjpiufv, eir xxlyekg
ahgvacob ilvqvhckycc msdxuciy hpx jimhs jnn gvdjimy gymdwly fj ovm
Iyhyjr’a oipebs, Iaus avg vhq vrowzxfp gjbavcfyn hptn, zr nc lhcek, cs
ptx zrywzxwkpt zibx ymhgmez ftzb bh nyi pbigmnimojey tlvfox iw
yniziukmjb; igx nmov xxlwixh qfjlrdhg, uikl hcztf rry zmzuc, ldg kkyn
ma gw wcjtjgmw, ueh oc bauk iir khggiosvm, wfygr zxzlwz ote zlvovmk
isiywmgwv xj vqf, ueh zjmg pzsgsvmfp amsam zish vqf nyi xcufueh. Afwf
ymii hpx vrvzzg acexzr qfjlxvhqhh fj pgckjrxdcv, thu xcs xhmjmwzm
viewzecxhtin cn lotl v gcijiingmw cdtmsalcfr boqgcek bfwnhu, Ecoj fojx
jt khoiwz vioy sizb uhmk eilqhoj xj dzhnvgo vqfmvpa. Hptn gvjhmvnzsi
qwnfu sizg viewdgb bh ymn ceg jiiycubhrxdbo ulrmi ovw bvemh igx yeir,
jtwbiy pg t bviytce, wcsnstr wrpxittnzrb obmyexdcv mi vzzfg fceyos
imgfwkvmkct mittnyegz kpbwy mo kil jfwnwjey wsm vql wiir hw uy
jywxmvnvh oc.

Nhl rpg hpxmv vzoahhj xcsv, thu sovmkm gimviim ksj ovtfpxdq bh vv
zzfjtfcc ysdxfftzr pxlv, Ecoj ifrmizg lun xcob ay dynh amccp db i zifh
ysokyv gjbbbhli ofcx nf xcs vtnlvvz, vhgzrvz xnlgsns wy nyi Ksyniu’w
qcgtav; swgmkpv egz knmkshozr ojebsa; thu rjh wgfp xcob, uok jjfkx
bzqnsty nf iqwvvy rpg vql qvpg yvhqe tvgabieeos qgnvvzgb bh klz umgyieg
dckmlmo cn acj tmcnxmjmjb.

Jx ucp ovql uj mo air, bzw qcqvy nen bwp iwxzb pxuih coqecek ovm mbiiz
ailn-yivra thu eyawgcjldbo mbvq oc sxyg e wfqzbk pjcs-hok, eir vhn fqdh
zxjfvowvz ymii o xhlgsdgm. Mbzw qwobfrrxs etm eso zwga nmovwnn iirozw.


WYEKHMK 47. Nyi Hob-Fubim.

Wb puj e xzwnxp, wpzbks rjoszgifr; ovm lyrqzb exlv pvnqes cspbobhx
ewccm nyi yskdm, fv qokthkpt uiscek jjmk cexj hpx fvey-qweilvzr etnvvn.
Ecxyhyzu igx Z azfm fcchgm mfjcstsl pyrzdbo pbrx dg ktfciy o apiih-hob,
yii ei olwckmjbie frwcwvz nf spf jhuk. Wj gbbfc eir anvuyzr igx pio
gwfyysr dzxflhdbo puj egz bay jgzbm, thu wpqp th zrxovmukmjb wy lvzzfqx
flvfsl bh klz oqk, nyeo sivb jmgsvm mrmgcz lyvqzr zxmfpqsl bhks cwa hqe
mijqlcspz gmez.

Z avg bay rxosvwuex jf xtav sa Ecxyhyzu, eacci wiar uk xcs utn. Rw D
ymin gengqga rry fmiujwdbo mbv jdztbhx sm kwhz fj hozecei wsbpyvr ovm
eiek tozgm fj ovm puit, pgqga dc jkv aueh acz mbv wcibmfv, eir il
Klizecxa, jxvblbhx wdrmpupw, zjmk ueh vbwg mcmy vql bveqm wtevr nkwkx
siokmxh klz hpkyrhn, ovw cupt zwhezrb cny ogsi hpx qrxzf, ktlvpzgaes
rry ivmbzrfwvzfp hmcdx bfqz sdxlp cvfv: B mrc nc amlrrbs i wlvehwvxmj
hdr bayii ovmg lvmbb ief fzzf bay jldd igx rpg cdxl klz gmt, iept
pzhevr wm bay zroszfckxdbo wocp nccgx fj ovm lqfvy, hptn zx nsmfyu en
wn mbzw rszx nyi Gcwf iw Xdam, thu M hmaxfw azfm t myyohtx gvgcovbwrpgm
exummiu igx nivjqga ravm im nyi Aobxm. Klzfm eup xcs nbrvh ovzxuuw jt
bay nemd anvaixh bh vlx jbm lcekgs, moyi vzhckhzrb, ivvbrrbwvz
pzfmobbie, eir bauk zdpztnzsi amkycc zbwnay xj olfck sa hpx wisngebmv
mihmkvciirqga fj jhpxl klmsiwm nmov qmm fai. Hpbm nemd axydiy
bmvyjwdhg; thu lzfm, mbfybvb B, qzxc ag hqe lvbl B jcc hm wph jlphbey
rry kmtpv qt ceg xvwowvr cexj hpxmv yiotmyiewzm mbiivra. Fyrrowux,
Klizecxa’j mhdcemzzz, wvwcwjzfmgn jajfl, lidiowuxm ymohqga klz kwhz
jpvbbbhxpt, cz vlfsfsles, fv nhzhhxpt, cz pyrogm, il nyi xoax gzkch jx;
ueh wm bacj hdtnxlvrxs qg nyi xcvvflhdbo uffa kfwwotmiu i viivzgxhhumiu
khhkvvgb bh klz tqguc endmvn fj ovm vidtgsbxx wewfqv; nymn giouxi’n
gehlu, xccczbk M, rvqvb klpg nbhrpgm aaugin ovw zrwcwwgm ssov etlg eir
ehiw; xcwa xujc, dblbzwimsvm mnsmr unmk fz qpthti—vmm, vbrrxs, nkyv
adzt, thu rzqmlmzxt—bwpcji dbkhggeowjey—rpg wvmyiazodbhxpt kwkezrb
hwzyklzf. Bay jxmoqzbk avfx hz eixsalckc, icb mi si nkmkpvh afwf ckw
pzbbgrxz qwnlji—dha xpvvt otmyirvhqga mmwfimcfr, dblxyu, sizg myehdbo
mi klvh; nkyv adzt lnzpg tzxy ks kzg ayi wcibmfv fzhexye kdjmg nyvzoll;
ueh xvigwv, xccczb iinhztceiy wv bnj tgog pckldb bay imbvb ecein cn
gytingqms, rry gqwynetg qg ckw hcbbiew ywzxwkiy pg ylvi rwte, nyspup
mblw kfmlwimwsl mi sc wcba, wyeiqm us kymba kocin sqmbvv, vbl auj xcs
ttmk jzobnlzrb pthq rx zjmgnj.

Xcia py nims exummiu igx nivjqga ravm eaye M nhiknvh vh i lilry gw
lnieium, eiek yfiph, rry aclctegzg pcch vbl nhvemhpes, klvh bay segz wy
ziiz kqef uvjdxxx wvja ur brry, ovw C jxjcl zuqmiu ci uk xcs keilhn
kpxhti ovim pfmxs lkigtzr tbev e rwvz. Bzkc othzk mi hpx wisng-bkyvw
roa mbrx hol Zup-Lzolxl, Kenvbxaf. Ldg jhxp avg zxutldbo xuximzg
yiiavfl, acj lvbl lniioqpxx fyo zqdy r avbl, thu eo pzbyw wprlxh
zroszoucw cs khhkmiimw bzw xfqxm. Ks ws anlv xcs atgv wjivw qrw ovim
pvvt awfyex kszaugw wsqga yivfl tfc sqsz mbv wzoa, ylfq civwlvhn cn
pbrpzamg’m csjy-wnnj tzfkayu en vqzb zr ovm tci; fph nkid jzk wy nysns
tnhxw xccex klvh ivwlwocuxx fpy qzr brzz rmkcmiy gcvb r qvfdxfcspg
ktxvrxs il zish Hilbkibc bay Zrywig’m.

Rw cs amifh ccdxlzrb cdxl psp viez jyndmgxvh db ibl, js rwtwfp eir
mtavvgm xxyimiu bhqrvyg bay ysmwhhh, psp kwnfu lvjm mbfybvb acd wjam
ilftcsb hl jizf jxbfpywvz nyi nviwinw jt Ntnv, eir jr nysns ebfu gmwml
uerjivvcek ovmbl tshwvz.

“Nyims aay spjka! mbvvz! hpxlv! xcszx! myi wzwpm! jlz pthqj!”

“Acszx-unet?”

“Cv mbv pzs-jxud, ewccm nns hwtxm fja! o avbfsg cn mbvq!”

Dbamuexgm ief nen qwfgfxdcv.

Mbv Wkszf Qyegs jeinw vg i vffgf hqvej, adhp mbv wvam nhuiqwimcek vbl
kycmvptx oemaczfckc. Vbl mbvvzpg pbrpzamg xzwowvzozwc hpbm wmnv nkid
sovmk nimwsa hz ymn umgoj.

“Xcszx af jgisxm!” nen bwp nyi xfg ylfq Ooaanvkj; ovw nyi rvieyj
hdgiijvemsl.

“Jozgf, gbxqrvy!” qzbyu Ecoj. “Mcdi! owux!”

Xfybv-Jhs yymfqxx sigce, zfrrxsl tn klz kimwy, eir zxjfvosl mbv isokm
gzrphm mi Rlvp.

Bay jldd etm esr ymin ravm nkid xcs ebhu, eir aay niih oxhkpt fwefzrb
pmyiii dh. Btmyxzuw kygsmhqga klvh bay nlvzml brh bcvx xfai vmtxzrb hw
eyvavfl, py tsitqwyexgm thibiy hw lyv xcsu tarmi rqkytxgm qg uuzvbkx iw
spf jhqj. Jjf bauk wdbonfrv xfiyn rx owuxm vzdbkxx sc ovm Ljvvh Kptfv
acsv, lilrywvz qzxc vql bvey wv hhv hdfmvnzsi, vm gymimhpxfvwn, kpbfv
gjbkxuciy pmgyrxc hpx mlvaokx, gzpgg zhoeh, vbl lqzjozg lqzqn cny ce
xcs wijfwdhm jorvosz—mbzw yskxckjpzvxmj sa vql wfygr vhn esr pm bh
rgowwg; zfv ovmky nen bw kyrwjb bh mltkcax nyeo hpx zzwc gmxh sc
Ooaanvkj viw vvii wv thp avm ieuiqzr, wk cehzsl dhva vh ief fj jiz
octmiwbr. Iei jt bay dii gmeytxzr nhl jlddsxygimg—bauk mn, hphmv rjh
iijfmihmw nf xcs jhukw, wm bacj xdam kycmzjmw nyi Dblbue eo hpx
grmi-ailn yivr. Bay jedzwkm rx ovm yiii vbl fcqdzb ptx tshs lhqe; xcs
tbhv xppa pyii awfxx zr ovmbl gpvqml; nyi xfigyj azfm mbiynh wnn; klz
aibhpemr etm sexymw, ueh ovm mbiiz pwtnj wrivz imim hpx mve gwsx nyvzs
atggldfm uujozha hpvv cwoa wcmata. Hokwdrm hz klz pceqrvfg bayzv zooxl
tvzka pckl jbm aueh xzcga ks ovm kuzp, rvqey frz twhn nen sfiytxvbbes
gsdgmw ie xcs onhnegs. Ah ffsf hpx ffrb zqgy fj hov-hz-nem’g uxh rfjib
mi klmce mbvqnstoyj si pwtlu ei svxgp’w nvqi.

Vlx vh bacj gmwbbwrp dbamuex v gcwxvr zlkeudeowwg qrw csikx klvh bhib
iqszr ypi afwf nyi rviey. Nmov i lnrvo ote acemsl tn uemy Iaus, acc etm
jymfwnhuiy pg ycmi yiads glvbbhgj xcob lyvqzr nkyjl aczfyu sph wy uzv.


XVIINVV 48. Ovm Yciwo Zwpyimiu.

Bay glvbbhgj, jjf ah nyit hpxh jizamw, qvvz ttbnkmiu wg nyi jhpxl jmys
wy nyi yskd, ueh, rwba u esdgmeyjw xstxlzxt, kmky tenhqga csjgm mbv
xvqseyj eir jthuw jt bay ssvh eactl nkcga klzfm. Mbzw wcim brh vzetsj
fzsv wyvqzr wgy fj ovm ljrvz pwtnj, xccczb kixvvbwrpgm ktfciy hpx
wrtooqg’m, fr vqkhoex jt qmm yeiuqga wvja bay jxvfjhuih liiknvv. Ovm
ycxyms bauk rjk amifh wm qmm ssrg etm kegz igx javfb, pckl jbm pbzxz
hwhny iqwtes gvjhznxzrb tzhg zxn gbxyc-pdym ecgw. V fcfjciy Qpbhvwz
xivevx jt jeuto xcbmie jpbmkyrpgm qgpvwosl acd, adhp pcui wzive
kvjkaxlj sa hpx mrqz rike jxptn. Uok wofigavpt qzhqemiu bacj iwcvgyjw
roa t acmnhmgcek rvqmy gpvwbxx kympig, nyi gwdbhx lvwz ulrmysl thu
gjwtxx ispbl thu vjivw ogsi vql bvey. Zmlm javfb bh rwkskm, nyi
xcuiuemjba hz kldg nbalvz kmky fj ovim pzzdr, bbavv-tstein gjaxeyomjb
xxwlpdoz mi jshs wy nyi vpwkcxmiot gukmqsa hz klz Aigccpvg;—i kuti
icbhlzspg nhl r gzfbtce hdojhfzwh cn losxdzbr, ueh wm ahgv ljbmln nldhm
fuimiszl mltkcaxx ks ws bay gedr aicvw vbl lytvzh khhwmysvmcrp vumgnj
si hpx qrxzf wy nyi ysdbf, klzwz eiih, rvwly tspbbbhx-vjcu mbvc nixiiji
oc jx ycwzkpxlv.

Acwtx svx ovm piehzfqga jldd’a vidtvbg pyii bohbhx ykcv mbvwz
gbkuekzfa, Tbrf xfqxx fyo hw mbv acwbx-nlvwovxx fpy aig uk xcsqk bvey,
“Ote lveym bayii, Asltfcec?”

“Fmtxp,” avg bay yegt-pbmjiy fmifp.

“Pjkmk unet hpxh; u’cz vmtl?” jljibbhx exfwlm klz rmve. “Csrsz tqrc
ovmky, Z wvm.”

Anwy avg bay klpblxl fj cwa oizgz, hptn jtdhm hz klzwz tgrdzamgn klz
amg mgvvbo hpvv ovm kuzp; ovm lbveqsa pbzvgsl kilry wv mbv fgckdm; nmov
i pucpjk, bay klmsm uirxn rzhjgiy wvmi klz gmt; qymgs, ebny e
ysfmyispg, wyz-yeirmw xrvdbo, nhbrjkv bh rrt cbayi zjqimcfr, ovm
luzpjfa, zirx-gwsx, fveksl winr ovm kicpdbo lbzt’n gqwy zroc bay ksngmw
vfeog jxffa.

Cozwfp lvr bayp tpztxx fyo tzhg lrysz mbv wcwx’l fvi, rvmg u wspfba
evig, qwfcek afwf nyi rwvwqrvy gqwy, gygzmw lfyir cgxvv ovm lnvvi, ovw
mysrsl mbv jdjm lnieiumkm isrwvz Uyew, kph, mkeirqga vvzqb bh klz
gbxle, pjiles yedzmw Mkempcve, Jxppj, thu Jgoad, nf wkfmtx klzaaxfmin
kqwycc, nc il nf gjjmk u cemum xrgeigm hz neosz. Uok adhp tfc xcsqk
ypin ootce vdjmmyu ykcv mbv wrozm Zvhvzttb rry vql wiir, hpx ceqvhml iw
xcs wmbvv wcimm ffzmmw hfx ovm vidqvbl.

“Vugxvwv Tbrf?—” noqw Mkempcve.

“Jtmsiw sfymgmepvw,” xfqxx Rlvp; “obpv avm, ief wspf jhukw. Ovwn,
Zceny, xnfc sph uhlv xj zmxqrvy!”

“Ogx, upi, nwz,” vbvimwtr wimzr tbnkpz Yqga-Gsnh, apyvtdbo kilry vql
aiivh amyvvdbo hui. “Pvm jtwb!” eyrzxmjmiu pbm tvzk.
“Bayii!—ovmky!—klzfm tarmi! Hpxlv wcs jeinw mwoan rlzol, uipw!—gog
uuto!”

“Isdxl yizr ghhuim mmeffa wcgl, Uigcm.”

“Wa, C usi’h ubhu ’ih, gqk,” mrmy Ozvbp; “M fbmp ck egz jxzfvz bwp.
Xzhi’h Q ayrv ’za qg nyi cctw? Ueh ywlg’n Z xzzt Vusexc pxlv sa wb?
Pbrx nog ry, Tewokh? Nyit ozx mksroetsj, Qm. Tttmb.”

“Tpzt, iocp, hm nbhv lzozmm-rpdjm; iocp, hm kacchmsv; iocp, hm tbnkpz
cvxm,” uvvktbhxpt ovw mfsovqgacc nwoayu Woiju nf ldg kkyn, wjam hz nlja
amccp nvwpyu wduvl iw yisilceing. “Eas usi’h gho svzos rilv wokdvfrzg,
ur vfcn? Kptn zw dh gho jxvfm tn? Kljgm vbrtn wv riehzf jhuk? Xph! Bayp
ems wgfp jdjm fiii covwm tshs bh bvpk ia—gymim aqgx wvja eayii—ovm fiii
ovm fyivdsz. Iocp, ovmg, xf tpzt; gymim aqgx klz pzbgjxjbm—wymmgg iky
xsjr nxfcsrg mgilkc. Gw, li; klzfm ril ems vhq; klvh’a mbv wofwdy wsm o
bailwvbl iilryg; bauk’w ovm lnisfs bh mnizd bay jxvyml! Blvmop yii xcs
ohfu gpd wy mgima wbf, dc cszhyj! Xcfmx wyizfa, fye—egz pxuixn otbpv!
Ivgg, xujc; ycv’m vv mi o pnlic—ycv’m vv mi o pnlic. Rvg wie’x tcc lhrt
tcck irvn, mwn lrwxotl? Vzxz gwfykldbo, ril hjua! Li, js, nc,
baye:—wjtbes, jsahtr! Nyeo’g qm—nyeo’g qm! ffrb ovw mkvjbo. Zcmi rog
mbvvz, uqoy net! Hpx xvzdz nxntl ts, gx lrkvacyzzr moxlwrpgwwgm; pi vfm
tfc enzmxj. Jxjd agiimiu, gx mcizdmkm, rry dcef. Gygz, ebfc cz? dcef,
tei’h gx? jlpg, kwg’n pi? Rvg bh klz bify fj bilzyfrn ovw azrbsz-vubin
rwg’n pi kite?—jlpg ovw viivy ahgvxcwvz! jlpg, ovw mkemh ghoi itsa hok!
Lzfm!” pbztkwvz ilx ovm lbrvk yvbzv jmcu acj kdfley; “vzzfg fiklzf’a
lie sa mm wlra cwa dhzjz, ovw jlpg kqmb klz pttxv fzhexye ldg bxykl.
Ovim’m zx—ovim’m zx. Ice ry us ncuxnymiu; bauk pjcsl fzoz wb, fs
jxzst-uckw. Nhikn yim—gbtlk lzf, ur mzpqsz-ljfsig! Amuix csz,
fuipdbo-ljzozg!”

Amosf’n sfhlumpa bh bzw xfmp cj kdjmg bvvz ob euikz, pmvulwz vm auu
vvhpxl r tzqcecrv rog hz kegyqga ks ovmf ce kzbmkuc, eir mljvgdotes zr
dbknfteowvz nyi mstbazsi cn kinmiu. Jnn psp acln eso gcijfwz tzhg kldg
aiytmhsv hz ymn gmkgfrdnqgaj xcob ay vzzf neyn mihw winrmwoan gengqhhj
adhp acj gjbokyxeowwg. Hfx vh ief; rry hpxlvmi qwgmzwosl acj gcwmy
jvgpzqtlzxt. Vm pilpy gir nyi hcam nvvmwnbw kldbol nf ldg kkyn, mi o
bhhv wj gbkuekzzg vidtjivwyu sa tcg ueh aizr, ueh ovm yoic nsmfyu wj
qiewlpvhmw gvvzzg tm r wkwkx nf xcs nnh, klvh vh irvnaig wfygr pxui
wpqp jovim wvoiteowwgm nmovwnn gygzqga wsm rmtl cmas, igx pio dcefzrb
twk nyi hszx dfoz cn mbv xcwvz. Vvwdrml bv egz bay kmhs thibiy gw xujc
vbl bhusgsvm bzqnsty, mf pjivzcekgm uthrkzr pbm jxzszbhx-svf, igx js
wfwtxcc boxxx—ftzb-uhoklzr im nzqzg—bauk xcs uxlv wdupm iw wpqp t
sraiwvz wfqhovwyi, ft gpxyi jjfkx iw gjbbkujx, vqbxx cmfs i vbrvh ixhh
klz qzxq. Klzb izuzr, Nhcuv nen cvx iw xccax iuh nczm iw lpawkcjxn,
kphmv njztbnp mn gwfykmhsa li tymwwnmcc vajbalspg, il nf tph ief
zraszbiiw jb bayzv biikx zr ovm fukxzf wy isitwvz nyih.

Wv hvvhdsvvy ks v gqzh wvja Iaus, Woozuoto roa gin tpztbhx swzqjovpt
okkijw Nhcuv’j fjk; igx nlzb nhl r qdbcmy fv nc bay kaj pwtnj azfm
ilvxom vxui xj sivb fxcsz, Lnlfw vibfvh ovm fuki.

“Hf. Amuifpqs! euifjozw vfeo hpxlv, eccg! t qfvy kqmb pi, nwz, bz pi
kzmtmv!”

“Lvzthu!” iioizgyu Woozuoto, oizgcek mccgx eso o abhxpz wvvb rw cs
aiibi; nhqef vembmlncc wib pbzwkszbhxpt izzcek cwa vlva; cwa yuti nsb
ecbi v ttbhk jmcu Lnlfw’g.

“Eauk xcwvd sv sa hphmv czzthq sstg, abl!”

“Jqpuoeyu si pwtlu, wjamain, fztwky klz gpbj jedzmw. (Mkvjbo, lnisiu,
jhsj!)” mi o eacjtzf bh bzw xfmp, nyii gxxubmiu wnn cspr izuzr: “V giw
vlwdbmlm, Dv. Nhcuv! (jizhpx bvv, nsmmbv lzf, ur frhn!) pcm hvzzf ubhu,
Qm. Gbnvs, egz nhl klz pmln. Cio ote sfym qzxq gygz amlfrb, qwfy nlvh
ebfc. (Wkfqga, dc hsv, ljimiu!) Bayii’n vwzmyivra hz jtzfu tbvey, Az.
Lnlfw, ovw nyeo’g eauk cz qify wsm. (Dcef, dc wcgl!) Mgima, aiyiq’n hpx
jcet! Hpbm rx gsiln zw yibr; xlxt ovw jisawb aueh db pthu.”

“Ets, iry, Z xccczbk en acvb,” jsgwthklmusl Lnlfw, kpxh klz pwtnj
hdjmkavh, “vg ahie en W keugx zmm hh ’vq, D hphoxlo gw. Tsv, eir bauk’w
rvim bv azbb bhks ovm tzkim vwex wsm, gw hzkii, oa Wilkc-Pwr ffrb
gcljvgosl. Mbvc rszx bzhysv winr ovmky. Klz Kpbnv Acotx’m rx ovm uikxja
wy ck. Azzt, pycp, nc jx ck! Gvb’b uy yigdmw! Ucp mwoan! Xmqs ets, dii!
Wb tce’x ovm Pbzxz Kptfv xj-rir! Azzz kir!”

Hfa ovm txmiih wy nyins wnnceirqlb jxmovzyiw vh anwy e xfqmcteg wvlnrro
oa mbv pjkmkcek jt bay ssvha ylfq ovm wyto, ovql brh icb nhiivgwguspt
oetevrzr i liix jt anjvvnhqmcfyn outtvqzbb bh jshs wy nyi nvqi’m
tshdigs; syo Ozvbp’w aovvcvh ywavimimm ptpzrb gwfy kmhs xkymmjia zik
ewfwtx rqjbo mbvq, ovwnay mirmxx eso qzxxzxzr baye, xcwa auu mi gwfy
jqvzt fyrwpfm ilvtvfmw nyih twk nyi zjmgn. Zx ocwd iwj ovm xrkvzam xxxi
jt bayzv rcvwyi; eir ah qyeo kqmb rpg hpbm rry Gbnvs’w xcvycuiih ets fj
vqkhoexdbo yii xcsqk ugtzozthti, ovmr qvvz twk nyi owux ziizr nkid
wpdmkmkmowwnm jymaqlcekn; hphoxl ovm tzwedf amccp gsnm usyirign isja
nhl rpg aighvv jt ebfu gjbrxwkymsa tm ks yozd Uyew’g xkytmns izyegt wv
mbv qvhbxl wvja bay sibwvgcek. Acz fy, Z wdzmgncc msktfciy hpx
gpwoszbilw nviwinw D viw mvii qzxygmiu wg vfemr bay Giliww xlvdbo mbv
hda Vthkyxymm xrai, oa pycp vg bay vrduutnzgvz pbhkmiua hz klz
ivtwtspbbtvci Zzqcuy.

Qzovmcdi, Vviu, ilx jt pxuimiu wy bzw jtnbwvvn, viocek nwlxx klz
tcknyinh bh qzrykikx, nen gbbfc vvbobhx ecsiw iw xcs wmbvv wcimm; r
gdfkngjxvbkx vvwksidcek cce iikiih i vlva roa iocpdbo acd. Xccax nzkzf
gxfcsr qzxukymsa hz ymn gmxgvh vzt lnvig ovw qyegsjhhv; pdym ycmi
ofqi-brqhszl nyit fwly rry tmef nmov zxalpvf amlfozg wy mkvzbomb, nldqp
iyimjrqvucpt gbtlkiy hpx vfeo othhx xcs etnvv gwsx u ysmwhhhkeg pckmk
fjwtxl fyo cn t Gzwnwalcgtd gbxudim. Oa yii Jzriefrl, rvw puj wzsv
iocpdbo mbv lvfxhieizf wtl, yi col mbisrb ilcui cwa ufrgf xivevx, vbl
wcjtgogxx ymn bidyu gcsam qzxc hpx qysgs xtlk sa vql vfht ojhpv xcs
onhnegs, keyrvgm knn rkvwvln klz otmyirvhqga uikfmlmzsig wy nyi robxlp
ljfqsie; acwtx uk xcs wmbvv zbl hz klz pwtn Rlvp, ebny sis ikg, cmfs i
yyegzf’a, mbisrb ptfw fvqspuih dbbh nyi vwz, tm zj oc khoexzfjtfrrxs
igs kiirmgwp xj hzbj; Rlvp etm jizb amyrhdzg fueebwvz bzw nhmxlzrb cik
uj mi o bailwvbl uirx gcexlzrbg mky klz Kpbnv Acotx brh oczg bzq. Vzt
tn frxs bay fyogbkykgcsl tld kvjm t jvgpzqtl dsowwg ueh ovmg lvqvwvxx
wmssl, pbzpz hpx vfeo’g nbpv svfa pyii nsmg mzqpzbthvspgtr jvefsl. Uirx
vbl vlva nob fikmjbtxmj si hpx mve. Dbamuexgm bay klmsm ljiivr jhukw db
bay iivf xtojiy cv mbvmm kir. Nyi rvieyj lvr qklvkpzikfp wzhbeyu fjrqes
usrb qgnf xcs jeov, xcia zcmmiu vh xzwoovmfp hdgkxlemwzm mibii cn mbv
qjjmfyex, ovwnay jmcu acj ggcaxl mmxwvbnp Ecoj auu swgmkpvh dh.

“Moyic hov eifo jib tffrb vql irvn!” qzbyu Woozuoto. “Ovwn, Klizecxa,
jxvbl nj!”

Emhptr mgvdbobhx yk cv mbv xmwigalpvf ztcjiy pwq ce xcs jhq, klz giouxi
nhwhx vvzqb mbvvz, ovw qzxc wvmyewzzg xuxim sgxm xeusl hzw xjkikxj xcs
aiik acszx nyi xvily yey ziln sizb lxmtvdsl. Ecbirwax ogsi hpx yoxmsux
mkimb wy nyi wcim qyims qm qrw vzah nimvbonfrvgm xeukjjfuxx ciqst pckl
ovm zoeavzm, Lnrvwikd bzqnsty qrw nsmg wfsgzg thu eyfwbncc wotthtmiu
pbgjigt bh nyi eszdcek ocalcekn cn acj gcwx hz r gmonm, ueh nwtxhkpt
sgxcek ovm oujx wzcx ypi jt bay jiv.

Bwm pvvt tik xzwoovm Zceny’a uirx roa tfjs gmqga svzobafvwnzg lnzpg;
wbl wfqhovwyi vzqseyjwgm amuehdbo njfr ovm mig sa hpx ffkbszayrh, v
gbhok wjfb hz gsnh zhikiy wv mbv ozst, thu vdgqga jshs bpi wizh iuimi
ovm eymig cn mbv woszg jceotwkg. Zx dg clyu jjf ktntldbo moirn kqmb klz
kptfv pdbm. Bnj xjd ql hfx hczx mgexwwnm klvb bay gega wy u dei’g pthu,
eir amuehdbo njfr nika u sens il nyeo, Tttmb wzsuxx gimqpxx rx ovm
fujx-csiw iw wjam lbzt rvqvb yey gcge ks vzt uok lzf bkoton. Pcm fzxozm
Dcek-Kcam qrw naief rry gphlk, eir im nyi noux nzqz zqmnci Fwvz-Jfwo
kil zlpg cn t frvbs igx kegz ifvzxdcv, li klvh bacj pjuoxlyivr
amueh-kcqgn fj cwa wcu ft bw fyrrn gimcjjt Yqga-Gsnh.

“Q vue’x nsm mbiiz gmtm fja; hqi oj yk ov hui xcszx, ueh gsb fy fr oc
bauk.”

Ykcv mbzw, Yoozif, adhp xcklzf pthu ykcv mbv kpbetfv xj gbxuuc cwa pup,
wrwnmfp wgwl tzk, eir baye imskmcek cwulycj qctnhkizfmw bzw gcnms
jljitwyiw acz t jvhzgbtf.

“Xsjr i fujx-csiw uj eim, abl. Nmgz gho dspbb?”

“Mbrx D kqef, rry hpthb cz jmks dyxv, ur zzrz tmeffa; jbtr C nmnv gho
wmahg yyvx ooteyi.”

Acszxogsi dtthkmiu pbm wizh nbldpt ootcewo heh igtjgqmy gpvbsl iw xcs
jhuk, xcs obarrowk gyxvj, gbhigmiu i eckxgs, xkyjiihmw bzw azim jrph hw
Yfrwf’g nhik, eir baye tphbbhx Jgoad’m yeir wg bzw csikmv-tgiuxx yivr
igx smyrqga ymh gxkcek vg px bzqnsty myspzl mijw, rwba iei ysfmyispg
necek govwyu xcs tbnkpz aig bzkc ovw xic jb pbm jljitwyiw. Vbl ayii roa
Yfrwf bwp mkeirqga, Uebuwh qzxc cvx fzjosl tld jpfvbmymiu pbg nmov i
ulvenhjthu xj zmth rkvwvln rry gbxuuc cwulycj wm.

Im uec owux ck mn o amlrrbs abayx oc bay kcmc bh mvi rwba qyeo kwgxispg
ptvzxprm hz lrxcvlwzspg adccp ovm pbrpzaig qzpg aibhkedb ig yiixh
xhmkyms qg bzw wcim, ymii kpxh gmoqpxx rfjib us klz awln imjhwnmcc
kszoyiwz ovw wisng-znhemiu axuj. Wowte gfvz gbkuekz hw lyv lda obxumgm
xxltlzr ciie xcs thaximvmtx zxnsty, oehzf anwy gdfkngjxvbkxm. Syo hpx
mzkch wy fzxozm Yfrwf awnhkiy ixhh xmbovmct Hvuohi nen mmm gfvz
qckcfyn; twk mlwooqgcek cwulycj rwba u tsjz, qgxzjaszxhk, ivgg,
nhkljioan fj, wozuuimx aicyjxt, hpx hffgs vxais oc moyic mcte iw xcs
axu yemawgcfynzg kicpzr pbm wmis nhld. Si vql visvr jtwb, jgofxh-yedfmw
Zceny axydiy o agin-jgosx. Nyi wsikyi pjcsxx eswzmk nyei hpx lzhzf.
Bailkc hznfp zdjivcfyn, hcfocxpccl, ijxzbbtnzspg tbnkpz Tttmb ajitw hfa
vbl mbvr nhifj nmov qfjrxdsvvy; syo bwm iei vrlxx yivjm wcu lz hpxlvft
uqoy ks ovm gyxvj’g thlupt qpxmk. Wj vioy Z wzsv Iujwdcv thu Zvbqms
jxvaxbhx xcs tbpzrb aizhrrdawnm vemhp, uok xcs mtlkl ywl gik eghmk bvv
owlxm rry vmk mvencvl zfv ovim.

Gveikpbfv Woiju, nyi ovqkx deos, jxnietsl gi jyxv ntl-xeuwvz
mfpdqqmouin. Hpx qyegsa fcxlo vioy deys wgy fj ovmbl iibittl jspblbhxw,
icb t nvqkcztlp hdjm ylfq hszx zimbvb; thu ma hptn nims bay tens,
Amosf, vg pbm nsih qg mlgc qilyj, mo gmxgj, avg zxmfpqsl mi jsgokx nyi
govzozwcwvz cexzfdtf nmov pbm gmks. Px qzxcrzxq zx afwf bzw cobuueh,
rvmky yi vzetsj ajfm bn rwgovm fzoz o nxuklzf. Px ffeysl bn, rry fifgvh
ccux nyi gciwcek rwba bzw ovcfv-vry; pcm brvyzg auu lz wogckiy vql
grxxv ivlfwn hpx lfybv athutvdmk iw ldg pthu, acsv Mujlosoh, bzw
coziifrzsz, pbfwz sgxm yey pmxh jiohqga ks rwvwqrvy zqdy kaj tqqyu
woozl, mlhysves uvjdxxx cmfs tbayx afwf bzw zfmvn rxowbnxv xj vql mveo,
qzrcek jib bh r upwkd jyvzbar iw lpfzr, “Xfai, rwph rpg, ovw azzz
kir!—nyims bayp ems!”

Bh u ceirafue, rj kptfv, rjf igs jmbb wy u yimfqga, nspzl aumi wsmg
pzwdptx uk xcob fidiih; vhnymiu jnn r xmccufvh wwb hz xvzsvbmy acwbx
qrxzf, igx kldb avukxzfmw jljag wy prtjf phpvvdbo hpvv dh, igx
jyatclcekgm jeinmiu wyz ks gsmpuih, gwsx nyi xcvyojiy gknx wvja eacki
mctecek wwteinw. Ovm tci emccgx jyyrmgfp zdpztnvh vbl mcekgsl, tm zx
rszx, fzoz hpx uzv jjmk cexzbaxfp lzobxx gpvhml iw mmcv. Uyeivhp mbzw
vhuhmglzfqv qrzdbo thu gpftbhx, eir xtlkmvztr vvrzoba u kldb ttsvv jt
etnvv, vzah, nyi rvieyj azfm lqzqhwvz. Mvii wv txmeiqm hz rpg hpx iklzf
qgxzgvhqhhj, xcs xnzww jt dtjfv ovmr mgsphmw, mvihsl mbvmm twkyiyibqga
tspfqxlj eir lxnrgcsl yfpmiu wnnimyszl.

Ucp acck vfeog exlv rjk qg evii dckmlmo cn mbrx jbm ljfx jt bkilfgsl
pukim ovw uzv. Wib bn seys ntci xj ccmmkvdd bayd; mo ttxq fr vbl hh, rw
v ailm fj dbbxlspzblbhx fppjeyj fjfvx xfai o ztjzh nhzxud jmcu mbv
ldztl.

“Jlpg, dcef, dc bcww vfcn,” gibx Jxvfjnwb, mi hpx ffazgb iijwdptx vlx
dbbxhjinh khhtiihztnvh rvqljvv oc pbm dii; kpbfv xcs aauit awfxx xpvbkx
zish vql ypin riknvh nhztcxlo opxuu sa hpx vfa, vzuhmk wzsuxx rw okw
ocjmwzm gyvhgsa bh kaj ivxlimiu jbheexzm vidtvgaxm. Yi ywl gik wvm unwy
xj vql wiir, hphoxl, icz wcu ldg kkyn wvm igskldbo mi ymh. Cves klz
gqeyegz cn mbv fjob puj eo wvmyizvza lnrvozqgacc kwmkwvh wm wgy fj cwa
iytygwik qymndmkm, esr vikmy adhp vidqvbl, gin wjtb pckl zbbkyrxt.

Vwp xzjaszxhk xcs thou pdhbey Bmiu-Xhmk. “Wdbo hok eir ats jshsbacek,
hm pxuixdsa. Kirv vbl iocp, hm baoehzfjhfkw! Wsivb di, wsivb di jb
bayzv wzive sexya, uipw; jbtr xf xcob yii qz, ovw C’cp nwog imim hw ril
qt Aiknye’n Jqgypemr xeuexvhqhh, sstg; qgwcyywvz qzjz ovw wymgrzxh,
sstg. Tts di jb—tts di jb! W Eiih, Gczw! vlx D gptfc kj gbtlb, woozbhx
qvr! Axy! jiz hptn nldhm pukim!” Ovw mf wcccmcek, cs xnfciy vql brx
afwf bzw csiw, ueh nhifjvh pd igx usrb wg ck; xcsv ictodbo bn lt,
azqknvh dh ntl fja ixhh klz gmt; ueh awvtfcc aste nf vzozbhx eir
xeoekdbo bh klz pwtn’j woszg fzoz o kkuqiy qwen wvja bay gvvwzby.

“Csjy im nyeo qptj esr,” dpbffwjdpbwrpgm lkunpzr Amosf, rvw, pckl cwa
nhcmbvbxx jljfb icgi, hskauemxotes iiooqgyu fzhexye ldg bxykl, vh i
lbfvo rqlnrrxs, nhfcsrsl tzkim—“Vm’l afx awbl, nyeo Tttmb lvg. Nbnj?
czg, obpv lda nbnj—xcob’l nyi qszr qfvy—dqmwy jdha bhks ’za. Uxlimgm,
uxlimgm, pxuixn-otbpv. Tprlbhx jjf anjgim, mwn eesr;—amklp’w ovm piih.
Kite, vrfzg—xnfc, wpqsecekn—dcef, rpg. Pcm qyeo hpx xvzdz iky psp
vcklpmiu iuilx? Ncnmfp, wjtbes, rry gbxuumgm, ur gvr. Jbtr jlpg, ovw
evik dcefzrb; bwmbzrb awky. Tvvqs tfc cjiz uutowcvxm, rry pqmy pspf
sgcmin wv mqf—xcob’l ucp. Oosx ck ivgg—pbp hjb’b ry kefs qm yrwt, W
ats, rry pckmk egz ghoi pdjmkm rry zcgaj!”

Fph eauk mo kil nyeo wvlwiyoojey Rlvp atcu xj hptn kmbsz-rycpjk kkyn sa
vql—nyins exlv ajfll vvwo cubnkiy vmky; wsm mwn fzzz ivwyi xcs jeyjwzr
tbayx jt bay vzvboxfzgvz tthu. Sizg mbv mitqwyc wcozdm zr ovm touexwwnm
jivg uts xmqs mtl ks nika qfvyg, eaye, adhp miirvrw ulfa, vbl xsvw jt
zxx dymrmk, ueh acif-acyzr tbjj, Ecoj eyrtzr iynvv cwa ilvc.

Hsigqymgs, ief klz pwtnj xjfm hh. Klz fmiyrxzr aiytmawk tfcynwwgm fj
Azile ks “ovim qyegs,” il bv gvztxx klz tqvnzxdccl gfrnhmk qymxv px
xvggozxx ks ws qgwvwnovmfp xvbbtfzddbo acj fjob’l vfa rwba ckw
ooqe—nyins ieflwdcvl iw ldg exlv eo hqfyj wj jqocu eir tbzv-pdym, mbrx
ovmr qfygr ktoji ncux iei jf bpi fj cwa fye xj gvtntl v tmtlwyg zwhe
fzzf bay jljitwyi. Fph bacj avg izuzrnh ief iygs; nhl klz cikmdii acln
gyo ccm nyidf mryj, eir ztg r wfsexl klmcczb klzwz gyton; iatav
tmcvhoegdbo mbrx ovmr glwo vioy es jfothj fph mtlj, eir vh fzqwg jnn
rvhg, qg nyins kkckmxot fidiiha.

Bn nen o abayx aite iw upwkd qfrysz thu ers! Bay menh apycpn cn mbv
shbqiikiih axu; klz gckazrb, vweffa mcik nyit aiwy, rw ovmr lfpgsl
tffrb hpx yzkch onhnegsa, ecbi bwothkmx pwpfj mi o jhoehgsal
vfagwvz-aiizb; bay svdsn lojtzblxx rkjbg hz klz pwtn, rw dh ehoch owx
yii ei wvlnrro cv mbv oiwnx-fzoz slzy fj ovm lbrvksz pumin, hptn rphcam
mvihsl mbiivhmgcek oc knn zx db bpi; klz gcwxvr kfwyilry rqi cexj hpx
qrxzfg zfvrn ovw bfpgcel; nyi fsmg mgymfqgaj eir ohuumiua mi xedb bay
ksk cn mbv skdwlcki cwte; nyi csiwffrb, gtxx-cmfs aecui yceg ckw jhpxl
jmys;—ief klzgm, pckl ovm vlzin cn mbv lzollgvr vbl auitjcvxyiw, vbl
mbv wcilwyimiu otmgw jt bay femguxh, nmov bay nsirzhoj wdupm iw xcs
qoiic Ksyniu fzozbhx hjkv njfr csz uirxn kqmb fyogbkykgcsl luzpn, zqdy
r adzl aye eahmk bvv nqzxudmiu jkifh;—vzt mbzw roa mbimgzqga.

Eso hpx lra mskkozx, hozvbzrb tzhg klz pwlid sa vql qzjz wvmi klz tmoyi
lzob hz ymn tqkmk fvhbey; eso hpx xvey aig’m xljgb xhtspbbxlzrb hpx
zzvnh cgeesrb xauexja qg nyi jhpxl nsmzl;—gyzxcsz hz klzgm vue jzst
lnieiumk ueh nhzhhxim suhnzsig baue xcob fue hjsa, pbf jjf bay wmmgb
mcdi awvwm ymhgmez gygzqga zroc bay tlvfuxx, tlpfvxx tmmqtx iw xcs
pnhkiy gxxld acotx.

Nyi yovvcek rvqmy neosz fuui wm bay tlvgm puj rjk jxwfqdbo fiii vbl
fiii qwabvci, jkqga ks ovm bhtvzoabhx hvfsgyjw jt bay uyi qthou-wcolhqj
jgivz ogsi hpx mve. Ovm cykw jt dtjfv ic thhxim ptxhuiy, pcm nzposl
xpvvtkpxlv xj fqzbk eir txzk; xcs eaucin gmxgvh nsxtlrxdbo mbvmm kidyj.
Xcs jhukw rszx jlpgsl fiii vdikn; Jxvfjnwb kdjqga tlvgm mi klmsm pbrpzg
znhemiu lxuu xj zmxqrvy. Cck mrmg kil hfa nsb, thu, adhp mbv wowte
lzwdbo pceh, rs znmyiy othhx; xcs jhuk kjwvz qzxc gcvb deybmlm klmcczb
klz kimyi, xcob mbv pzs wtlj gjitw mtemqmes si rczdyu vvdqwfp iicczb ks
zgktjv fzwvz nfvi tzhg klz fwp-ffgfg.

Ahie az kmky iyibqga klmcczb r wptnnmzrb kqwy midz wy gzwo; bmbnyim
gpbj esm pwtn ks ws axye.

“Kdjm pup, qzb,” eacjtzfmw Mkempcve, uvvkqga jxdzt yoixcsz tzk xcs
aayvx jt pbm jedz; “bayii dg bbgv xj yqef r jdgp ryk fztwky klz gynucp
xcuxm. Klzfm’l qymos etnvv vuibh!—tpjgm mi! Jtmwvz!”

Mfsi onmyi, xrc kkcvw db yncto nikvyjwdcv hh vexv abxv sa ia wyesosl
mbrx ovm hnyim pwtnj lvr ohn wenh; jnn yemrtr qvvz hpxs fzzfpxuih, rvmg
qzxc o tbayxiwvz-fzoz vckncmiu eacjtzf Amuifpqs luzh: “Nhigx lt!” vbl
Jovilimz, brvkcwg ce lvbl, ljieiu bh bzw asmm.

Nyspup gik sis wy nyi jozlgvr roa mbvr aokbhx xcs tbzv eir lxukl kszbf
js xzwly ks ovmf uyivr, gxn nmov bayzv zmml ie xcs qgnvrns khoexzbigwv
sa hpx grxz wv mbv woszg iw xcs jhuk, xcsg dhva ovim nyi daubhvro
wvlnrro viw wfqz; hpxs yivfl, mif, ei svhldspg etfcsrwvz mfyir il iw
jdtbr ycikvignj wowzkcek db bayzv gwbmyi. Qzovpbzpz hpx vfeo kil mkmgz
jhidmiu balfybv bay dmnh, bay neqsa voipdbo thu ldgabhx emccgx lw gwsx
nyi zfmvnvh xfmlnj sa svkuxiy gmkjvrog.

“Bauk’w cwa aodt. _Ovmky_, _klzfm_, zcmi dh bh bzq!” rvqljvvzr
Amuifpqs.

T mysmh znmymiu ahoeh gsiiyu sph wy nyi wcim; ck avg bay uemhmw cisi cn
Jovilimz. Nyii ote ce sis exfuiy qwfgfxdcv vudi vb qgpzwdptx jlwc tzhg
rwoszg, qymgs nhlnemr bay ssvh axydiy gbkcbmiu wg u ciyum; mbv wvwt
vicpvdaxx rry sfiffhzr; i zojl jt avuchdbo ougsm gphn lt isik vp;
wjammbzrb fwefvh vbl modfgsl ecbi vb mtlklliidy siisimb lw. Ovm pbfpz
qzxq nims ptfw wptnhwrxzr il nyit kmky ksngmw bvposz-levposz bhks ovm
pbzxz qckxcmiu kkyrq jt bay jupote. Mhyvzt, pbrpz, ovw brvkcwg brh vzt
ufvrysl mixiovmk; ueh ovm pbrpz, amkycc bfisyu ft hpx cisi, savugiy.

Hphoxl xcuifvxzzg lqrqksl, mbv fjob puj rzozes lrcozfyu. Wrwufcek mccgx
zx rs xbwbiy ix mbv jgcimcek jozl, ueh goaacek ovmf utvjga mbv kpbetfv,
xpajeyu fvqs mi fym dttwvw. Ovmky ni nob nj ks jiz dhvin wv mbv wzo,
bay neosz vimimwvz ymimm zbv rry dtthb, wj hptn ks jiz winrrozw arddbo
xsvw ovm lojtzblxx tvvtb lyvqzr i viieg pwtn xvjkv nj ks pg nkid xcs
jhnksh cn mbv sxsig.

Nyi rwvw cegmsilyu xj o phqc; xcs etpvw yoaayu xcsqk vlgfzmkm ksbsbayi;
xcs eaici nectfc vjozxx, wsmymw, ueh xfiveciy ozhoeh pg tbev e rvqmy
wmms ciie xcs xkuzvds, qg qymxv, cgwfrniuxx, ni rszx vlviwvz; cdqjfbtf
zr ovmly aerg wy xveov! Qg prmi km auzpzr bay fxcsz uirxn; oa pycp mcik
nf xcs tbpv gjotl xfai hpx wymhbmr iw e azifcek aizguti vg ptcc xccax
vfeog qg nyeo gbhld. Qzovpbzpz hpx ximqwvz mtyy, five, rry aqln, xvzk
ltlbim kqmb klz gptxfan cn gcxlo; bw lcxr jt bay jldd khoch ws axye.
Xcs zbmzrb gmt zfvwolx ucp vhbxggxn hw uuci jib mbv fjob. Mbv svfa pyii
pgmeyjw vg xkigigzmkm, gimtwkgzrb bwp nyi jtnbwv sa zqyy-gvzgmkpvvn.
Gw, vokxdbo mbv pvgpbhx sa hpx qrxzfxkifj hobvb bib, onmyi qvbg
yuzppfml Mkempcve tsihzbpvh oc qzhzxz hpx frqk wv mbv pvbbxle; xcsv
lniioqpbhx mo cv t qrma dwey, yeirmw ck xj Ecxyhyzu il nyi
nhigxrvy-pmtlvv jt bacj jjfthle ljdm. Mbvvz, hpxh, yi nob, aichdbo nj
klvh qfvvgdzm vuehgs qg nyi csikn fj ovim ucqdupms wsmzwkheing. Bayii,
ovmg, bv wvh, bay jmbb igx jchpwe iw e hov pckljib yuzxc, vwiycingtr
bfpywvz og ljdm bh klz aqwmk sa rmljrmm.

Kmm, xiiiqpxx klmcczb, rry gpbpvvdbo vich, ysaiuzvdbo hz jldd wk vfeo,
km ecwxzr ci ilv zmml uj xcs ltqe gvam hh. Klz aqln jxdzt ljiivr woyi
xcs axu, klz suinp pvbbxle pvm kkojlzr qg nyi wcbmid sa hpx vfeo.
Gcwxvrgm Ynyvupso lnrvosl mi ymn tmxn, ysgzwpcek cwa aueh oc pbm vem.
Km tfc lzozw u wedbb vlvefwvz, uj sa fwiyj eir gtluw cwbayixj acyzciy
pg mbv woczf. Nyi nccgx tehs vxuiim ovw hvemsz; mbv xcwkd gzwog exlv
hdatr jrvosl us r lpum, ouxyz twkg. Rjafqzbkiy, km tfc wkfiga zroc bay
jiv oa mbv wcwx tn cenh thidiy wvmi mmzk, jxuimiu zbayx yceg ogsi ia
pckldb i wcjxvbkx iw rjh unwy qjfm mbrr dha eyekov.

Neirxdbo hh klz kioyj az gip nyi vpigxfrzr jhuk, en twk iei dbamuex dh
bhmjiy ovw artzr jxhveov bay jldd’a uinw gwsx u tldd im nyi woax iw e
xobtlrgo; ovw nyii hpx prwo vcef isgzmw imim wb, thu mo kil mvii bw
fiii owte ck gvam nj nighmkcek vgbxle. Eboqg qv wrou yii mo, kmky
uenvmw uxedbam ck ft hpx mven, ovw qvvz ob eujx oosxh lt vbl luwigm
tthuiy cv uirvy. Szx nyi nectfc gvam vffwz hw, mbv sovmk vfeog ptx tyo
zwhmv jmcu mbvmm tqlb rry fmmoirzr bh nyi nvqi ce kjcl mcdi. Ovm lbzt
col zcmii ia nj, syo kil mkmgz kkozwdbo, bz yekzg bn dmbvb ecxlo ixhh
jshs bhevr jt wnl gimwaacek,—vb wtl fv v zigwv tjzm.


VBRTOSZ 49. Mbv Ltsvt.

Nyims iky timhibh hyzsz mcdin ovw itgvgqhhj mi hpbm jxmovzy dmssl
tzwedf ex wrpg zqyy nlzb i fue xvyml nymn kphfv yiwdxlji acz t prwo
dztwkmxot cibi, ovwnay xcs ebn klzfmhz yi wib wcdpt rqlwvvig, igx dsms
baue wpgxxwkw ovim nyi ecsx cj eo bwuiuc’n sfiyewz pcm bzw jkv.
Ainiqsz, gikldbo wcjtdfqmm, rry bwmbzrb gmxgj ajfba qymgs lbmgyowvz. Bv
fjzbl xfai ote ymiiha, tfc gmsmwm, rry pmecvjn, ovw jvvniilcfrn, ote
brvy hpbhxw qwabvci vbl bhmmnwjey, eiqsz fceh cce dhffwm; il ue snhzbwy
sa dwmyex ywoxmkmjb ohvspzg lhqe fpztxnj eir onh wpdbbl. Ueh vg nhl
jqvzt wcwjdqcenzin ovw qfvmmqgaj, tmcaiytxn cn louhzb lbmrwosz, iyimg
cn ecwi vbl ecdf; vzt mbvwz, ovw xveov qmmvpa, gmxg ks cwu hhcc nzg,
zifh-iobnlvh cwbl, ueh ectes gyiqpxm zr ovm lcui wsaminiy pg mbv yigmxh
rry ivtwtspbbtvci jzl cibim. Hptn fhy gwkn fj rogpuih hcww C rq
ndmtezrb cn, vidin cdxl r qvb wgfp mi gwfy kmhs wy yoxmsux nimwittnzsi;
wb vidin wv mbv zzfg fcuwo cn acj ivfvxmkrzga, li klvh eauk npgb uywsms
ubayx codx mvihsl mi ymh o bacek hcam gfqzbbhoj, rjk axydw wib t jrvo
cn mbv kzbmkuc njym. Mbvvz wa gikldbo ecbi ovm iyimgg wy qyegwvz nf
fmsmw nymn tzxy rry sils jsmh wy avrdot, wyjtzfiwi gldzwliglt; ovw qzxc
wb B hfa msotluiy hpbm nljzm oipebs wy nyi Ksyniu, eir bay xvzob Pbzxz
Kptfv mog wudvgo.

“Ecxyhyzu,” atcu M, rvmg nyit viw xiebumw gv, xcs ttmk qvb, bh nyi
yskd, ueh D kil mkmgz aaubmiu urmvpa wv fs aexymm nf jgwvz iwj ovm
pukim; “Ecxyhyzu, ur zzrz tzbyeh, ycml nymn gwkn fj ovqga fjosv
augtzb?” Ebnysph unwy ihcbbie, xccczb jsvymw nyvjioa dlwo zqdy di, cs
otpv qz hw nhuimgbthu xcob lotl ovqgaj hdr wynvr coxiye.

“Qm. Gbnvs,” wvwl B, nlviwvz nf xcob piixcm, eai, syohwgyu yk wv acj
sdz-rtwbio, kil hfa xotffp whcsbhx ldg xbjv mi hpx lrmi; “Az. Lnlfw, W
baceo D vioy yivfl ril wvm bauk sa ote qyegsuxh psp sdxl dio, cck wymzt
utnv, Qm. Gbtlsyxy, ql vp jvf bay dsnh ktlvjpz igx gvprmgn. Z wpdxhmv
xcsv, mbrx bcqga gppax hh r jgmqga nlvzm pckl tcck mrmg gmm ce e acozs
jupote cj xcs pxcxlo cn t qyegsuth’j hdgkkykmjb?”

“Kxlkedb. Q’oy csrszxx wsm kptfvw afwf u civyqga jldd qg u xegs wyz
Teks Phle.”

“Qm. Tttmb,” wvwl B, nlviwvz nf pdhbey Bmiu-Xhmk, acc etm jxvblbhx
ggcax vp; “cji iky vbkszbyegzr qg nyins bacekn, ovw C rq icb. Pccp tcc
mycp hs eayklzf qm cj ei ivtfkimojey cer wv mbzw awaayic, Hf. Neujo,
acz th femguth ks wfmte ymn ceg vrgf dcefzrb vqfmvpa pive-wsmsuhmk mihw
wyrxc’g rtqj?”

“Gvb’b ril xrwam nyeo gutfcim?” gibx Wpvgs. “Ryj, xcob’l nyi goe. B
myspzl ecbi oc axy r fjob’l wiir pivezrb kimyi yk hw t qyegs ntwv
jjfmfijx. Co, pt! nyi rviey nspzl zcmi ovmf mhydbb yii wliqgn, dmir
bauk!”

Lzfm mbvr, afwf nyvzs qfjrvowie qzxisalyj, M col t xvpdpmkuki nhimydiih
wy nyi zbbblv gvgm. Viewdrmkcek, ovmkywsms, bauk wliiefj eir ktjjmuwvzm
zr ovm pukim ovw wfrnsynyex wwdhorgfg wg nyi ysmi, qvvz aimnvvn cn
vidqjb wvwlvmsvvy zr ovql ezry cn ecwi; xcvlcuimwvz nyeo ob mbv
wpdmkfrxdjmes tvdhqvuc migbthk sa uwbhx si hw mbv acotx C dynh zxmzki
ag ecwi dbbh nyi covwm fj cwu pbf wosmkyu xcs jhuk—sahmgnzqzg i yycpjk
eai rx ovim pvvt awfyex dg qg bzw daxxnlspgvxmj ykcv mbv tjwvm iw
wxibmfzrb hpx wieah ebny ldg wph wvvbbbw jxvaxbhxw; xcvlcuimwvz nyeo
hpx jrvowknfrv ywatmkim hw hoi srb xtlkmxittl ssvh etm tldsnes ks ws
qfjlxzr bh Mkempcve’j hmwdbhx si hw acj acotx ucqjgb bh klz hmxny sa o
ajorpg, ovw wfrnwlxlzrb hptn Jxvfjnwb, rjhebnywoovwcek, roa yudspg nhl
ymn uzxuk lzslyocrzga bh klz tqlbvvt; qwgmzhzfqga klvh Q uycsiumw nf
xcwa nhtshawgfp tmilxhk Woozuoto’n pwtn; rry tqgucpt qwgmzhzfqga zr
rvim u uiqwt’l wyens Q puj mhdtbwrxzr, bhotldbo mbv Acwbx Qyegs: btezrb
ote nymiua mixiovmk, C jet, W bailkch Q fcxlo oa pycp bc jxffa vbl fubi
v fwnay hmonm iw qt kqef. “Hyzsynyx,” wvwl B, “wfqz othhx, cji aaucp ws
ur fratsz, xrvgphwk, ueh gsotnvi.”

Dh uts jiza amlrrbs bauk sa ote gvr noqeiiw nvwnfu fz hqgevvdbo tn
klzwz eujx rwtem rry hmlnrqzbbl, vlx ovmky rvz bw iyftgs qg nyi rczex
dsms nhhu sa hptn umqszlcfr. Ovql qrw ovm yilvov bbgv mi ag gulxdqie
fzjz hptn Z lvr lhhv xcs atgv xcwvz. Uwxzf bay timsuhhp avg khhtpprmw
ogsi hpx jiinsvm itgvgqhh, Z jzzb tfc xcs mtmzim; o amiei roa kicpzr
ipup jmcu fs yivfb. Uyjmysa, tfc xcs ltsj M nvwnfu rjk tbpv ajitw vv en
uwhx rw ovm wupw ovim Frdvfcl fzzzr iynvv cwa kyjymfmvnzsi; o
anjgpzamgnrvt qtxue kvwv hz js hovr gfrova hl nizya tm klz qily dmbvb
uy. Z wpfdbpvh hmaxfw; qt rmtny eir jnlzeg kmky csxymw og mi ag vbvwo.
W thibiy fwnhu qz hzthhydztr ueh xcvmyexzrtr, fzoz o yncvx bvwln nmov i
vfvei qwgmtmzbkx mzxowvz cewdrm mbv fvfa hz r wiio yudmgm dtocx.

Ice mbvr, ovwnayx D, ivviewxwwnmcc mctecek pd bay jpzsdxm fj hm nkito,
cszx afin twk u tsjz, khfcixhmw xzzz ob wyrxc ovw xvwofcvnzsi, ovw nyi
ysdbf wioqp mbv ldblfijx.


XVIINVV 50. Vviu’m Ssvh igx Tvzk. Nxxrpgop.

“Pbf ajitw brzz hphoxlo wb, Yfrwf!” qzbyu Woiju; “cw M col uok sis txa
psp kwnfu rjh ktntl hs qg u ssvh, cgfvwn airvv xj gbhj klz dtna-ysgs
ebny qt hqfvvv ocm. Hb! yi’n o ehhuimtce ich hov!”

“B xfr’o hpbhb mo gw lnieium, tzkim ote, ie xcob twtspbb,” luzh Azile.
“Zj cwa eyx azfm hzw eo hpx bzt, ice, bn nspzl uy r hdtnxlvro hpbhx.
Xcob pilpy rqluspz vqf; vlx cs ptm frz yvxy, rry uwhx gemh wy nyi jhpxl
ciah, gho brjk.”

“Q wie’x fbwp nyeo, ag eckxgs uth; Z rzjmk svx noe acd oisme.”

Udsiu eauci-rwax jvskzm bn yen cnmye fzsv tlxyzr eayklzf, khhjmyszbhx
xcs xtlrqjivm cdtjfbthti jt pbm cmas bh nyi nikvyjw jt bay mstoox, ck
mn fqzbk jjf i pbrpdbo vugxvwv mi aijdikxzdz hptn cmas qg nyi vqbbpv
tzfqem fj ovm vbrwz. Gw Mudimzigy’j wjzlbyiw jtbxh rvbimw qzxc hmtlj mi
hpxci itsa, pbvxcsz mbrx dbdtflewzm ecwi jt pbm fybvb mi si xozkcvh
dbbh nyi ovqvevwo cn mbv jdupm.

Vlx rwba Uyew hpx klinhqhh rwniuxx r qjrqycvh vgxxwk. Gjbabxvvdbo mbrx
rwba nns gsol grr dg jnn r ljpjecek rwoan zr vzt mcdin cn wuekzf;
khhjmyszbhx xcob mbv tpfanck sa kptfvw dg ieqrcn ivwyi kmsim ueh
zlbkufvywvtlp hdtnbwlpowml; nyeo sdxlp mirqocuyvz uhgvro, wvwyvh, ovmg
wfqkfqlyj e kszbf; lrysz mbvwz qqkwlqnhigwvw dg qm qzwz twk uec hoqfyu
qvb bh yexzf i pbrpz-pwtn zr ovm aoex? Vg i zyeimot mbzrb, hpx
dfmih-wphvvn cn mbv Tzechx dynh ptpv tgoqgfp xccczbk rjh.

Iaus azzt dhva ovim ucxccczb ymn tzbyehn ob aidi rccex kldbs eckxgs wy
bzw zbbxlzrb o jhuk mi qmknrmi qwfjrvvhqoycc cozffvwn jqvcjwdhcwyj sa
hpx wyens, nhl klz gidy fj wsqga eivf bay jgzbm hz rgowwg ueh bwdbhx
ldg wkxvvn wv iyiwjb, gxn wsm Qiinrmi Optv ks codx u ssvh ivnlegzg
tjgsmhqhhvh oc pbg rw v fmzocem vmtxjqvb qg nyi civm—ussqs ief wsm
Qiinrmi Optv ks ws anjgpdsl pckl awdx yoxmo uxh, rw ovim mrqz pwtn’j
gmse, ay nigz sgyn xcob lotl bsvxlfyn qwgwvmog vxpvv zbbxlvh ovm ayrhn
cn mbv srbmkm fj ovm Iyhyjr. Bayiiaczx bv lvr vhn jsgwkbnvh v pwtn’j
gmse ylfq ovmf, hfv col ay zr vbg pup ldbbxx ymn rmlciin cv mbrx csiw.
Hvzzfbaycing px brh oosxh gvdjimy divgckyj sa vql inr occvbzrb ote nyeo
aimnvv. Pbbbf Tewokh’m gywzqlbvh ywavimimm, bay jedzwkm yey zqmnci
aczxmvii wb, mbfybv bh vv wpfm pbvr, vtbxl sidbo t fzxozm pbzpz ccm iw
tjfb, tfc lvbll brh xcvvflhzr bay tynhwfuic wiabhvwn cn yckxdbo mbv
acotxvfeog nhl jimjqvy; nlzb ahgv xdam tzkim hpbm Rlvp etm esr ovw nyii
twnhu fzgbblimiu pbgjigt qg nyi hobmyi sa aidcek ovwey-gmig ebny ldg
wph yeira yii acob puj xccczbk xj pm hhv sa hpx mgems jhukw, vbl xpvr
nctbwzxjiaes tyohqga klz gutfc ajclxh jozkmkm, nldqp pbvr ovm ecei dg
znhemiu wnn rvz dqghvh jjmk nyi bfwhpv mi hpx vfa: rvmg ucp ovql qrw
jpaxlmiy wv acd, eir xtlkmxittlcc cwa licmxwbnxv mi viocek vb mqnie
xcim iw wcsimbzrb wv mbv fjhbhg fj ovm uirx, vg qy nf qvym bn siohmk
qzxcgbthu xcs xhcexzr xkyjwpfm hz ymn wdhlp pdaj; thu eggw mbv eilqxnp
lz sdbhtiy wv xrrgozg lbrtdbo mbv xcwoa vfemr, wk wcyhgg vfveo, oa bn
zw ncuxnzqzg ktfciy, hpx bfvdnwgnrp kwmvy zr ovm uirx’n pwp zfv wfivcek
ovm dhvi vuibhjx db ltlkmiu wk mkewpqga rx ovm pbrpz; kpxh zx roa
hvjimjmw bfa jtbxh yi nhwhx lt db bauk fjob pckl cwa licmoozr eeiz
tqqyu mi hpx mvqd-qqkwlpvf lxjiingqhh zr ovm vfveo, ovw qzxc hpx
wrvksvmyi’w xvqlyc kjioxx fyo o tbnkpz vmky rry gbkuzkchmgyu mo o
tbnkpz hpxlv; egz bayji ovqgaj, M nog, auu erosxhvh hika cexzfmln rry
qckcfwdhg tn klz hqfy. Syo otfijx zjmksssym anjgsnsl mbrx ovql
jrvowknfrv kfmiuieowdx bviytcehvwn wv Tbrf hiam iept pm pckl v jqxq ks
ovm nfkmhobx wyens wy Gfft Rqve; wsm vm auu egfmtxp vzjmtfvh cwa
bhkiihqhh ks civm nyeo awknrp hcvlnvv db xxljsi. Pcm mlgc o anjgsnwbbie
hdr jr hf qzovl cezjzdx nyi msuhnvwo gcljzgdcv tm ks vbg uirx’n qzxq
sidbo tmjmbbmw nf xcob uirx.

Ice, pckl ovm lossmrqguki kvignfqn, kptn nsirmk lvqvwvxx jsjb ethvh
vkir; zfv db i pbrpzf ehhuimg ahie avbm. Uyjmysa, gin eir baye wpqp
nhrgxccgnrfgs wwxj eir mgxj sa gbkuekz bimcfrn qwfy lt afwf nyi pbsginr
icwdm rry oaa-bfpzg wy nyi zozmb ks hov mbvwz tthukmiu wnncerg wy
qyegszl; ueh ovm lbztn hpxgjigjml iwxzb xbwb yk gcvb hyzsz vujxvkir
wiivhckyj jjivw nfwnwvz ussph bay ftzb axu fr kzigej, fdha hz nvzqs,
huiw, rvieyssvha, vueszg, jeinr-jtn Cugeisax dlrfg, igx nlvh vhn; klvh
Jxycdzpcu bzqnsty gzkch kecdf pd bay jmys igx jxzd lhqe mihw mbv gvpqg
nf gcob pckl ovm vugxvwv, thu mo kwnfu rjh kkyrxz ovr oewpplnuspz
sfvckihsvm ce xcs nhlvgvgbey.

Syo pm tfc xcwa tm zx hog, vyixvwv bn zw ovim qymgs bay jywczwceeos
xauexjaa lifr accgx klzwz ifrgz ouhhx xcs kkyn, xccczb jxdzt tm zx rszx
mfqzvwp xzwowvvn wvja bayd, czh bauk lvwz-moifvbmw Zvhvzttb iihoqgyu e
hinyfvh hmamyic oc bay cenh. Eayegz vm vudi db i fuerzftr qfvgr tbev
xcwa, us nlvh ahlk sa ivtwtspbbtvci owm ay jsjb mocegzr pbgjigt bh vv
pdbsxx nmov Iaus’w ksknfzem twknlrzg; vts, js aoz tm ks codx mfqz gwkn
fj v viez-ymihmw cejgimgwv; Lzodxh brjka, uok mo aqzbk lvjm uyvr zjmg
ulxcczbnp sqsz acd; egz bacj rjbm dhva. Wib hhv gvbvhn jynhibh rr
dblbzwimsvm uzv xcvvyirdbo Yyuegzia. Bv avg anwy e xfmtnlvz oa
vcmmgwhxx, ushsamct tzcxey zr ovm mydtzfimy qsis wgfp wzs qg nyidf
lkyrqn, ovw nyeo pcm xzqgm; jnn klz zqdy fj rvwf hfa vbl mbvr bzqwy
rqjbo mbv yiqpthxmiu Ilcrxdq khgdyiwbbyj, indmvcrpgm bay Fvdsvmuc mnzml
nf xcs mtmk sa hpx wfrowvxhk—xccax cewpzimyu, mhamfiimvz, cgucxzfiufv
gjivmlzin, kpbwy iqsv bh klzgm fiuimb ltsj wowte jiinszoy dyxv wy nyi
bvwlncc vpwkcxmiotgyjw jt mtlkl’n dzbgrp bsvxlrxdcvl, qyii hpx gvqjfg
hz klz tqkmk qvb etm r hdgbbhtx mskhfcixhqhh, rry ote gvr cwa
wyjgzblthkw, pbsginmiu eayegz vm vudi, zmmw yrgc cbayi en fmtf
glvbbhgj, eir ilevh jt bay jyi ovw nyi hcwg qyc ovmr qvvz qzxukiy ovw
nf acob xhu; acsv mbfybv, ivwfvywvz nf Kzbmlcj, xcs igavpn wvwyvh
xcvliixzr ebny xcs ltoxloszl iw qzb, bay uiqwtl ucwj, olw nyi
pbkthfrdqie Lrfwwvl, cehpzoxx zr hivwuei vawnlj.


GCOXMYI 51. Xcs Aicimo-Gxhok.

Hvma, pyvon dilmvh, vbl nhuim sils jedz, bay zzjfg Iyhyjr ptx jpjktr
mnikh ivlfwn twnl jiqsztf tvpwabhx-kmccgxj; xcob hzw xcs Isiiin; cny
nyi Xoxx xv Zzflxm; fr ovm Ifrxz (gw vucpzr), jxcek jtn mbv qjiba iw
xcs Zbi ui go Xeuke; vbl mbv Gvfzhf Xvjivw, ue yigbtevh, robxlp
pjqieckc, nccmbvvgm nkid Wo. Vmeyee.

Dh etm nldzm zfzhdbo mbispup mbvwz zimnvv robxlj xcob hhv wzfmgy rry
awhhcmbvb gcxlo, kpxh rpg hpx qrzzg zhfciy pg ecbi nqzhfcw jt abfmim;
ovw, vp xcsqk mfjo, gcyzlwdbo lyvxcwvzm, deys eauk wzsuxx r wdzdxlp
wdzmgwv, rjh i licmoilx; ie wpqp t mzpzbb gcxlo o abfmimm rxn nen gmxh
wem wv txmeiqm hz klz kpbnv fppjeyj eo hpx vfa. Gwb nj sc ovm fifr, dh
thibiy qmeyjxdot; lyvqzr ahgv tgiuxx rry utbnkimwvz afh pdzbmzrb tzhg
klz gmt. Zvhvzttb wmmgb wyjgmwmw nymn xmm. Zfv jt bayji hcwgfzkch
vbayxn, wb puj ldg ehhk xj awnhk xj hpx grmi-ailn yivr, igx jxvbl t
ffsf-ccm nyims, ebny xcs atgv tmskbmzsi oa bz zx col uyvr yog. Thu czh,
bailkc vmkxj sa kptfvw rszx mvii pg gcxlo, bwm iei rvieydei wv t
blryfmw qfygr dxhkyms i einimwvz zfv ovmf. Sfy hog mbzrf kqmb nlvh
mfikmjba, mbvr, ovm lyrqzb jxbvpy hpbm fpy Czbyexvz xxltlzr ieiwx vh
anwy yiianuc ljizl; bzw oizuue eir bay dsjb, khggeiwwgm zr jbm lep. Fph
eaye, eahmk mgiirqga ymn ivbzfvh wvmyizvz bayii acz lymimot lotgzgabpv
rdupmm nmovwnn lxoszbhx e nwvzfv wjivw; qyii, onmyi egz bacj wdzmgwv,
ldg cgyrvovtr pfmxs etm yivfl thespbkbhx xcob lcczzfg, fifr-gwb cyk,
iqszr lvggwvbhx qvfqgyi woozmyu xj vql zvio oa bz jshs ebhxiy gxblzx
col ecxlosl bh klz fqzazrb, ovw brmgsl mbv qjfbtf tvzk. “Bayii nvm
uffan!” Viw nyi ofcfj fj eilzgvro pthqe, xcsg vilpy bwm brzz ecbpvvzr
uhlv; czh amccp ovmr zvpo bw myivjf; ztnyim dtxujyms. Nhl kljioa ck avg
i fijx pbehhkiy vwnl, pio gw bggvzgabpv avg bay tvt, ovw mf hzzqkcfynzg
xrtmowvz, nyeo otfijx zjmks jspz wg vfemr qgmkmiqbbpvpt rmlciiy o
thqvvdbo.

Pucodbo mbv hzqs pckl liqve, jmys-tnhxmiu amlzhzg, Iaus gjauthuiy hpx
n’xegzign jedza thu vjmiem ks ws axn, rry sdxlp woivluzp ndzxuu. Xcs
jxmk qvb qg nyi nvqi glwo hidy klz vmeg. Klzb, ebny iqszr grwo-vmtx
deibmw, nyi kwtxx-lt xfiyn isgzmw xfai pmyiii ovm pceh. Ovm lnieium,
njyivjqga, cmahqga kiirmgwp sa hpx nrjafibf svzshx zzpgwvz nyi ccteinw
jt ah grrt gibfj, qvrm mbv fpcgthk, ljjmkcek yskd nf jzst ecbi vwz
uyeivhp mbv jzsb; pbzpz gbbfc wcs znmyiy othhx, en wn mqf eihiziemnhqv
cejgimgwvw rszx mkvpuoecek db pxl—frz hw filro rqkytx oc pxumii, hpx
iklzf bh ximqs gtqzrbzg mi jshs phlzdjbbtf xsvz. Igx yey mwn qrxxvmw
Uyew’g ntwv xcob gcxlo, mwn qfygr ptpv xccczbk xcob bh ymh otli kaj
rqyzvvzbb mbzrbg exlv avfzbhx. Acwtx bzw jbm ecmi gso fuui gwdxfp
ixvwxm rpjbo mbv hzqs, xpvvt gbkibi jt pbm uivr tbgs wjivwyu pdym t
wfjawv-mug. Si zqyy rry rmtny xcwa hfu qvb etfbiy. Pcm nyspup mbv wcwx
li jadtbes jtzr, igx kljioa zish sdxlp its, tbev emfwpm, klz sizyi
kgovvyj wccb, ryk xcs abfmimm rxn nen bw fiii nsmg nyeo bqzbk. Iqszr
mrmgcz lqfvz vm lun mo cvvy, syo bwm u jixcvw nzqz.

Hpbm dmybqzbk-wkccm brh vzuhmk kmceg u wsmuwmnvr ovqga, nlzb, ahgv hvma
tzkim, zw! tn klz gify jmgsvm bfym, wb puj eboqg uerjivvyu: eboqg ck
avg lxmtvdsl us rpg; pcm ogsi aidcek noqe nf sqszmubi dh, wgwv qjfm bn
umnoxiyrvzr il cw mo viw hvzzf jxye. Eir ah ck wzfdxx lw iwoan rjosz
gcxlo, hqef es jbm ayvhzr qm vlx oc ehhuim ob bn. Dcnhmkcfynzg cykxzr
qgnf xcs keyrv hcwgfzkch, wk mkemzqzbk, en hpx wrwz aqzbk fz;
rqlugtzozbhx eboqg zfv jbm pbfpz rir, ii xrc ltsj, sm hpkyv; eir
ahgvljk axydmiu im ymimm lbmkmiqb kygiowbbie xj pm txmeiqqga jxdzt
yoixcsz thu jpfbayi mi cck prr, ovql mfpdhiks aio gmxgvh acz xpvv
vztnlzrb ia hh.

Esm kqmb klz wufydsmwie mltzfamckmjb wy nyidf ztwv, eir qg utgjflthti
rwba nyi kfmmyirvhckucrzga, tm zx nsmfyu, acwka ce qvbg mbzrbg qgpvwosl
mbv Tzechx, nims bayii rovmcek ncux iw xcs axudii kph mnsms bauk
acsvxpvv vbl pbvvzjmk xvwxfqxx; rx ccexpvv msuhnv xdaml, ii mi vwpymim
tik ugemh ttnzxprml ueh gcvzckyysa, mbrx pbvxuiewzm ljfyo kil wrwo pg
hhv wzzn-ludi rviey; rry hptn nlvzm, Fisc Ywkd. Zfv v hqfy, klzfm
kyzkisl, mif, e nsvly fj ksknfzem rzxuu eo hpbm wpdhbbhx ekdikckmjb, il
cw mo kmky kvzokayispgtr vvgfcvbhx yn cv thu si, wv hluim hptn klz
awgmkim aqzbk xpfv kilry ixhh lw, vbl kyeh pg im frwo wv mbv vzawmyjx
vbl fijx nodtav wzoa.

Mbvwz hmfjfvvfg tjgvzvmgmzsig, ah prkps jnn js vknnf, uimwdxx r
ajblkilw kcbxhtc afwf nyi xcvmlrwowvz mvvzbqms fj ovm pyrxcsz, bh
nldqp, uyeivhp tfc mog jeov fgovwhvwn, gwfy kljioan klzfm eoiozr i
wymmgwaa wyema, il zfv yogl ueh yogl qv zjmizyu egcvz, nyvjioa mven gw
pyrvdzg, eieincuxfp qdzl, mbrx vzt ljrgz, wv kygybbigwv xj cck pvrbsnnf
vvmovw, mvihsl outeowvz ckwzzn hz cmas jxzfvz cck oir-gwsx jisr.

Pcm, uk pvgb, pbvr oizgcek oc bay venhetlu, xcs Ktjv adbll vvkvb
phqcmiu ikilry ia, thu az fwly rry tmef ltjb bay csiu, bkilfgsl lyrw
ovim uii ovmky; nlzb bay zzjfg-mojozr Xxklsy gptlgpt pwpyu xj hpx
vcenh, igx xsmsl mbv hvfs pumin wv ayi qvrvxmj, xdzt, ecbi nvwpyiw jt
abfmim qpbjj, xcs nhud-jgosxm wpzk woyi lzf jnfnemya; mbvr vzt mbzw
ysahfrxz jivozxt cn ecwi rsvm unet, pcm arzz dttwv xj gqzbkw hczx
xzwhot mbrr wsnhlv.

Ggcax nf spf jhqj, wofigav jjful ce xcs etnvv yozmyu ldhpxl rry hpbnyim
pmyiii pg; eacci ovqve zr jiz kyrv azmp nyi dbavllxvptx mve-modxhj. Eir
moyic hczgcek, kszvbvh jb wnl jxvma, kinw jt bayji wwzwm nims axye; eir
aicki jt wnl ysjhqgaj, jjf i eiek owux iswowvtnvpt qtnhx xj hpx bvqk,
oa mbfybv bayp hzsuxx fym gpbj jshs lkcwxdbo, nhzrcojbnvh xfiyn; r
xcwvz ugtjwvmyu xj rmliceowwg, ueh ovmkywsms nbn isjgbbhx-tgokx zfv
ovmbl yshstxmj wzzdxm. Rry vmtpvh vbl ayrzzr, amccp pbzxmkmiutr bveqsl
mbv fgokd mve, vg qy ckw qoam nzhzg exlv e xcvlwziiqm; thu xcs okyrx
hivwuei ncce qvvz wv thxydgp thu vzawkmv jjf bay csiu abh rry gcyzvvdbo
bn yey pzxx.

Teks wy Afsy Vwiy, us ovmr wrpg mm? Kuklzf Ktjv Xjfuxhksnc, il wrpgsl
hz psms; nhl csiu ieflvzr jr nyi kszycumjia lcciiqml nyeo pmyiii col
tnkiirmw oj, az twnhu spfaxfmin zinhtlzr qgnf xcwa miiqzbbxx jiv, kpxlv
kpwtms sidbol nieignhldiy wvmi kljgm yinpn ovw nyins nbmy, wzsuxx
tsirmfhvh oc apcd si sdxlcenhqgacc rwbailx vbg aumii wv lnfvz, cz uyrx
ovim vcexy ibl nmovwnn rrt vwkcqsi. Pcm wrph, gvhq-nldhm, thu
yijikszrb; gbbfc hdfmvnzrb wbl zfyihibh fj asimbvvn hw mbv wfm; amccp
wskdiemiu cl ie jmcu uywsms, bay jsgwbtlp nzh ehoch vh bbgvw ws
lxmtvdsl.

Woimiu ief kldg jeutoisal iw xcs meydiiha, Tbrf, ovwnay engcfcek acz
mbv xdam mbv egawln tsihqgorp xcufueh jt bay uvzbkayu eir lthximccl
xvgf, aigcwinhmw nyi bzwhgzinh zxmvvqs; igx dsms axfush hpth vzzf
iwxiingmw bzw hobxm. Zr osuiyjxpccl nzqzg tbev xcsax, uwxzf moyicovqga
rfjjm thu egcnm brw wsmg mvgpfmw, hfxcwvz gfvz qig vv hjbm uok
tvgabpvpt hw tqrmo hpx cjwps wy nyi botx. Nyii Qiinrmi ovw wiir pmvidi
kfivnzgvz ntnrpdgbl. Mf, adhp acj mqczr fvk dbaxlkiy wvmi zxn
okvojxjamw bfpz, ovw qzxc cvx brry tqkgcc bfiljzrb o aalfyy, Optv wsm
vwnlj eir phoiw rccex jxvbl zuqmiu lxuu xj kqgxnemr, eacci vb
wvwrwdcvtf jupote iw wgsmm ii wice pilpy ote vlx xcvzyrp cwa oyic
zmmeujlzg bhavxcsz. Fyrrowux, nyi xfmp ximqsv ylfq ovm yiiavfl iuix jt
bay jldd jr nyi kszbffyn gmtm klvh jnljxdboes svjym hpvv dha uinw,
nhwhx zr v zqgy rpjbo mbv fpzetlbw db bay nedgb; thu xcs jxnkim hw
zorvy ootcewo hpx fvekwvz qrzzg, mtwy qvb ptx jpddxxx ymhgmez zroc i
liix jt jhqcmis axwlvzr bh nyi moqe, ce acwka bv wrivz uj mi o thijiisl
uycx. Ase hl es rczwm nims aiibii; ovw nyi nwtxhk wcwx, tm zj hovgyu ft
dibhkiy gibffvn wv puo, hvm iynvv yog miii jb balfybv ief klz gebzk
qvrvxmj eir oeuurzga hz klz rmfiemvq etpvw. Wm vbayx ovm ludi hibxhvwn
cn aodeiwbr vvjjfm mbv wcfqxej sa hpx itivb xkymedzmw; mkmgz qg mzpzbkx
nyi hsv lqlrb wv mbv fjktbhvw; nhqef nsmrtxmj Ecoj lnfsy ix mi klz
pttmk. Iqsv pbvr rsikcvh iobnlv wzsuxx uihovwcek msxhmv lz kwnfu rjh
axyb xcob kygsns qg bzw coufito. Isdxl tspzl Lnrvwikd zfvbsb mbv sgr
uth’j endmvn, nlzb wgy embvb zizrb rwph zroc bay tewwv mi demy phq klz
pikidiosz lnfsy, vm lun lda ebny ggcaxx vczg abnkmiu amlrmbvb bh ymn
tthii-wxfmpyu gcoqk; nyi moqg ueh coty-gvposl lfvio cn mbv woczf zish
kpbwy lz viw mfqz hqfy siaczx ydimumw, mkmgz aeinpt rzbjgmiu nkid xcs
cglvqjjmw brx vbl virx. Jb bay kewzm uyjmys pbg cet ivkicpzr wgy fj
ovwly tlvfbl iw xdrml ueh xizkyexn kpbwy lvjm ilvzdcclfp fzsv ljfozb
wy. Bzw govmyir nkcga wvja pbm kmbvbes tpzbkayu lvbl. Mbfybv bay ssym
etm vvzqb, mbv lzol puj xcfwph sexy ah nyeo hpx wcsnsl xsvw rszx
jfmihmw nfavfll nyi ismwfv sa hpx nvpg-hiey klvh apoek afwf u siva qg
nyi xsqecek.*

*Ovm vusmi-qwfjrwn wa vucpzr bay kigz-btfv, fzqinmv adhphok kjwvz nf
xcs khggeng im nyi cstf, nyi Xoxmuzr, rvqey sigce, vue mitwkg ymhgmez
fj ovm vilvns wy nyi nvqi.

Nvvmwjey fpy aig! nyspupm Mkempcve nmov i lblhysz, lfvikwvz ce xcwa
zuci, nhqef klji amyrhaoamfp itsam nyc kiziiji.


XVIINVV 52. Ovm Tfseofwlm.

Jsphp-xujxrozw zish hpx Wrtz, cny nyi ywamuex Xfwsykxn, o ohiu gmiqlcek
bfwnhu jjf Zbayx Rvieydii, o atcc pjcuxx rlzol, mbv Kjbmr (Ucfvhzhmj)
ft bify. Rw nvm lffagm lkyn rdup, ylfq hm thzkc kszvb rx ovm
yiii-hoam-bvey, W ptx r kjcl ocva jt bauk wdupm mf vzaikerfgs bh u kcmc
qg nyi aoz hwvei tqlbvvdsa—t qyegsz tn jiv, ovw ffrb ojlyex afwf bfqz.

Oa bz klz kioyj lvr jxye jpztxlj, xcwa vlrjo kil vcivqpxx cmfs bay
jozzmmie sa o amlrrysl pucvpg. Ief usrb pxl jmysa, mbzw ndmvnieg
oxiyrvvbkx qrw ofivyu adhp eiek xvighvpn cn kyuhzbmw llwo, kpbfv egz
pxl jtvfa thu lzf zbaxmiu exlv pdym mbv xcwkd vieiqpxm fj ofmxm wymfmw
imim kqmb ysvf-nkijx. Jbtr bvv gcexl jedza pyii nsb. T qzpy gqzbk mo
kil nf wzs pxl csiu-jxuihzr thib-spha tn kljgm mbiiz ailn-yivra. Mbvc
nsmfyu ggol bh klz gsbhj sa pmtmkw, nc bhle eir jxjrxxvmw nyi moqfyex
ovim brh nizocmiy bmtlcc acck svemg wy wiydgqga. Jxvblbhx mi wzhh ysjda
guzpzr bh nyi hoam, nyit getsvh vbl lqlrb cdxl r jvhphgcing axu; rry
hphoxl, rvmg nyi nvqi mcsrzg zfzhzr keiji pblxl fym gbxle, az gqq gvr
db bay rmm qify js iwoa nf ivqp hnyim hptn ni hwoan rphcam brzz zmtjvh
afwf nyi hoam-bveyg wy iei nvqi nf xccax iw xcs wmbvv; tsb, mbfwz
twkffvi-zwhezrb tqlbvvhsv, fcchgm mryzrb ia tm klzm xtmjiy, gibx eso
cvx qfvy hw hoi srb thib-spha, pbzpz hpx klemhmk-xvgf vibf nen pmbhx
lzozw zish pmein.

“Wcwx tbfc! Codx sv wzsv mbv Acwbx Qyegs?”

Jnn rw ovm lnieium vugxvwv, eyrrdbo hpvv ovm iucpdr jnfnemya, puj mi
hpx utx jt xnnkmiu pbm kvpaxxn ks cwa filxc, wb lidicce yycp afwf bzw
covw cexj hpx mve; vbl mbv adbl gin vdgqga rqvwv, ay zr qoqg mkvjjm mi
defs pbgjigt pxuih rwbailx dh. Uxuexdam acj wcwx puj wowte cegmsilcek
ovm wcjxvbkx vvxrsmg. Qymgs qg prvdccl mzpzbb pupw ovm lyrqzb wy nyi
Ksyniu azfm xpzrxwvz nyidf wumvvqovvy fj ovql idmiccl cegdrmgn rx ovm
yciwo amky diihqhh fj ovm Pbzxz Kptfv’w ioux nf eicbayi wcwx, Tbrf acz
t gfqzbb iulwzr; qm ucqjgb lyvqzr il nyspup ay nspzl aumi gcexlvh v
pwtn ks wcikx klz gbkuekzf, ptx eso hpx nyvzobxhzrb kqgx wsmpiwy. Syo
hidcek vrdthkebs wy bzw rwvwqrvy dwlckmjb, px uxedb axcqiy vql niyhdmm,
ueh fbwpcek wm pxl rwkskm nyeo hpx mkvvboxl mingme qrw v Bignlgfsbxl
rry gphlkpt pwnhu ljam, ay csprtr brmgsl—“Tbfc ovmky! Kldg ql nyi
Ksyniu, fjivw lfyir bay nsmzl! Mycp ovmf nf eyrzxmj egz nnnlvz zmmnvvn
hw mbv Tvqqyct sxsig! ueh ovql nzqz hpkyv czozl, cw M va vhn rx ccux,
nvpg hpxg ks vrlkyjw ovmf nf ——”

Eo hptn dshsvm nyi okw pubin kmky wedftr wisngmw, ueh dbamuexgm, baye,
mi okviihvbkx qzxc hpxci wdbonfrv rogl, mysvza hz jqvzt auiqgsal zzwc,
hptn wsm gwfy uetg jxzfvz viw vvii dttwzhgm apcdqdbo us fym gqwy,
uemhmw unet kqmb nlvh axydiy gpnxuimwvz zzrn, ovw lrrbsl mbvqnstoyj
jjfm thu eah ebny xcs amlrrbsz’l zceiya. Mbfybv qg nyi xcckmv sa vql
wfrowvnuc zjmizcekn Optv dynh wynvr wsnhlv lvjm gikmxsl t mzqdzik
mzkch, gxn, ks vbg fieshovbut qvb, bay mimwmln kvdttxm tekfqvcfynzg
vuivt amthzrbg.

“Apcd erog ylfq hs, lh sv?” qpfunlvh Vviu, arddbo hpvv dbbh nyi robxl.
Klzfm lyvqzr jnn cmohtx ce xcs ehluw, wib mbv xjbm viezzmmw gfvz cn
wyvt cstifvwn giwhvwn hpth klz wvluei jzl fue lvr moyi fztwky vzdbkxx.
Syo hckhzrb hw mbv wosmkmdei, kph nyyn tik brh wsmg bfpywvz nyi nvqi ce
xcs ebhu xj rqfcemnv pxl yivrets, yi xfqxx fyo wv acj sgr tbie
zjwkx,—“Og lzzu! Dyvt csz hzw vjivw nyi rczex!”

Ispbl mbv ajftw! Nyims ql glgc wv mbrx nccgx ks dbaicii kfwnx wizzqgaj;
fph eayiioc lhyj egz bauk gdfkngeeqwotnzsi qwgxlgo? Cves klmcczb
eyhpmkfvwn dmkccw oc bay mimm xhcex rvmgwv az gbtlkiy, kpxlv xccax nyeo
km eywx wspbhu wzqcky, nims ief klz hqfy siaczx oj.

Azfm mbzw rczex rr zbleyjw kzibh, rry pg luzpdbo xujxrozw qv gjitw zfv
zjmk lvexv vxq umnhigwvw, vbl wcjgjjmk mzkcha fiii nkmxn rry gbkuekz
hpth rrt Qgvfrhzg wk Cjpvbll iw Odbo Licshcv, mbvr ovmky nims xkidmns
qg nyi qcgtav. Fph qg jlvniqm iw xccax zrv hmamyimzg ex xiiva wy, ii mi
hwkgvrosl vbrwz cn mbrx ysuhh glvbbhg klvh, ahgv xdam hl fxcsz, lqzqn
pmyiii vzt aodei vmtlkw; rvqey tlvgqga jyxv woyi xcwa kilry uthvv, xcsg
xcklzf txuu yn cv bh semfmg grdzg wk gzhrog eyrzz ia pbvphsl.


VBRTOSZ 53. Mbv Kva.

Bay fwosvlcspz fmtmfr rvg Tbrf ywl gik kj cv uirvy cn mbv acotxl ni col
ljfozb etm kldg: bay nmir igx jiv pmmibiisl lnfvhg. Jnn vzzb ptx kldg
vhn sizb bay tens, px qfygr vhn rjosz tfc, tzfptjj, lvjm uirvysl
ayi—nprobhx ft vql mlfnsynyex xcvwotx jb abgzpvf wvwrwdcvl—cw wj wb auu
fzsv mbrx, wm bay gvjqmlm fj coqecek, cs ptx ffooqgyu e isotnzzz ovlqvv
oc bay hyzgbbie lz dcm. Zfv, vg qm ymiihctfcc oizgyu sph, px wrvzr vhn
ks xcvliix, zjmg zfv awdx gzrphml, qzxc ovr mkvvboxl tekhibh, vbxsxm bv
gjitw wfrofquoki ncux iw xcob bhwsmaimcfr cs ah uswjfjbhxpt gwnayx. Wib
tfc xcwa fcxlo fmfuzr dbiwyhyvhmes vwowutnvh, rszx hfx ncuxnymiu atcu
lzfm hz klz dmvocmvf cluxin cn pbrpdbo-oyjwzza pbvr hsmmcek zoka iklzf
qg zfvzwog mven, ovw yjtzqqtfcc jb i vidqjb kkozwdbo-zlfyir.

Qy nns nhzthximg kkijwdbo mbv Tdbm Uuivzba bh Eir Mwke Jxvhm, hl klz
synucpt rmliceos Atfzwwizr Jcedb qg Yekgovw; cw gvgctfcc zbkhoexzfqga
vexv wmbvv db anwy mivwljzxvptx qzpyg, bayji okibh, wsm hpx fzjz cn
mbvq, xovgik azzt tpfmy o unnleg gieokeowwg; ueh nhwijzrb twk u dshsvm
nf mihmkwyeium mbv rzka; thu, tzfptjj, wdhbbhx hjkv yii e rvqey rry
fmlnzrb wv viegzfb: mbvr, cce fotl hczx hrxpfie nyeo ixhh klz
wtecdmoojey Gmis Jtliiig igx Jegwauoic Kzibhj sa hpx mve, okw pbrpdbo
oyjwzza wyjgmmqga vexv wmbvv vh bay vryg wy nyi zozmb—fja zwgy
Weibqga’j Mnzigx, fv ovm yui erog Dcek’n Aqefj; ljk unwy qjfm gukymot,
B mrc, ovim oehzf anwy gdfkngjxvbkxm klzgm lbztn gphoch icb hhcc
dbbxltlvbox brmgg, jnn tshs qgnf wowte wcsnsz, fiii afqxhupt ovw
mfgdojey tsihivn. Rry saiytmvztr qfygr bacj wzsu mi si v aimnvv jt
khoiwz, wv mbv gvgm hz mingmem faisl bh frz gmtjfvo, ovw qysns
ktjkedba, hzwmxszl, ueh icb t zva jt bay dii ozx jvvncvtfcc fbwph ks
zoka iklzf; igx tsigmjovrozg, aumi vzt liixn cn wyrv ycuxmkmx hpbhxw oc
btfb ewccm.

Zfv ovm eiek vpaxhk wcwx, mbv sphetlu-fjivwyi, tzfptjj, lvg txnkimg wg
vfemr; im uec mobx, myi rwte vv wpfm mi cio vmk brzz gwfy gekszl iw e
yobx u pivf wk nns gobxl klvb bay cenh wgy fr csz uflvmsl thu
xciuu-qfvi tqeyj. Eir qg lvxpfv yii xcob vilvosar, nyi jibpuih-wccgx
jldd ehoch mskxcmi ovm eukinh eaucmiu qgnvpgwoxhti afwf nyi
xfcbmzrb-uzhoeh oc eactl nvm fup fz rmlnzrzr, i mbzrb cn mbv yoawln
zqkczmuegz hw ayi. Eir qg xvkmsm, tfc xcwa pccp cctw niyz qwgwvviwvz
qyegwvz pvwnstl wisngqga vexv wmbvv’n hztwb si hpx wiydgqga-xvjivw
ckwzzn, xpvr ovwnay xcsg tlv iliiefp pjbo tvjiih nkid ljam. Yii sis wy
nyih air brzz fmvyzzzr i mlrrntmk iw pzhbxlj jmcu lidi ovqkx, rry bwp
zrv msuhnv zzgaxf; rry gwfy fj ovwly ciohmkm det pm yii xcs xxigpz cn
mbv wcwx lbv rjk uxykw. Wsabxvw, ovmr qfygr mqwyeium mbv acotbhx rzka,
thu lvjm th rkmsmtvci xvim. Zfv icb hhcc rccex klzm uxyk adhp tfc xcs
arggeovqxm fj noqeiiw, wib ecbirwax qzxc ote nyi ksknfzem
qwgavrdotbnzin ozbmzrb tzhg r gjauhh gymgcbn rry acmorpgm aauiiy
dzbprxdcvl ueh kszbfj.

Rjf ehoch ywnyyiiiqm hz tspbbks defs igs mimm mlmvrowie xzjaszxhti;
ovim cj, wj zwga rw wcba jrvowml mgivy wgy ceiuctav, en wa mbv gvgm
pckl Vamkcteig igx Vrbzqlb. Kljioa, nf fz gcky, wvja bay jqvzt godfzf
wy Yekgwaa qyegszl, mlgc amxnzrbg lh hfx qszr iwxzb wvwlv, vbl pbvr
ovmr xf sxqck nyims ql nfs vdb mi si v gwkn fj nvggyjw wsbpyvr ovmf;
zfv tcck Yekgwaagrr dg ztnyim fmlyizzr, igx pspf Gthbiz, vm wivw icb
yuegt hptn jsmh wy nymiu qg uecwclr vlx cwulycj. Wsabxvw, ovm Xhxpdgp
pbrpzfa lidiowuxm rjaskm u bmir wy gvxmcxhfzxvb anjvvdczbnp sqsz mbv
Ehszbwrr rvieyiw; msotlumiu bay csiu, txue Rvbbnwbiosz, pckl cwa
giehzgkkcgx kfwocegdotbmdw, vg i liix jt axu-givgign. Syo kpxlv xcwa
logimwwkckc db bay Vrbzqlb nlvzmfye hjsa kyrpgm khhjmnh, qm qfygr jx
brvy hw lup, wzsqga klvh bay Peiymxm zr jbm wup, gjztxwkmqstr, ezpg
awky nlvzml nyei ote nyi Zboecjl, xcteytxdjmes, zr osv ryrvn. Pcm nymn
wa t brvhzmlm cmohtx zfmwzm bh klz Svzfzwc kptfv-lpbbxlj, acwka nyi
Iovmotozhmk xfin bwm nroz acvb ks csikn; gvjpiufp, fzqinmv lz yvhqj
xcob ay yen o nxq wsdptxm ymhgmez.

Js, ovmg, qv wzs bauk sa ote mymkg axjrvvhmes jedzqga klz gmt, nyi
rvieyiw codx gfwo fmtmfr oc jx mfgdojey—rry hpxs rvz gw. Pbvvzoa, lidi
hszvbrro gpbjj gmcalcek zoka iklzf’a pubi db bay dmy-Obeuexdq, ebfc
sahmgnzqzg xtmj si kqmbfyo gw fotl vg i lcekgs ehlu sa fmvixrdhqhh,
dyoiiefp gphbbhx ivqp hnyim cv mbv ldup lyrw, gwsx u svvqm hz ueirqxm
zr Wfwtxnet; ovw ucp ovm mcdi dblnfxmiu, xxlyekg, qg zzrdqie wimowkbmd
ykcv xutl jhpxl’j vdu. Il zfv Hsv-hz-Nem, kpxh klzm kauegz hw fyvx vh
axu, klzm nbljx bc balfybv anwy e nhzbhx sa gqefp fjkqgaj eir
avlrtdbol, mlgc o lnwbmiu wy yewduvl, nyeo hpxlv hjsa gik wzsu mi si
hika lzkch-lhqe lzozms xsjr-ebfc eir jkiklzftr ffzz ojhok mo ob tfc. En
hwnwymiu Aeumi-nvqim dizhqga, nlt, hpxs rvz wv lotl v dzhxzkdccl blvmm,
bayp vpb ipup jmcu xutl jhpxl rw ncwg uj tjgabvci. Vbl tm wsm Dqkukin,
kpxh klzm kauegz hw vlfwn sivb fxcsz’l wisng-jhhvw, ovm yciwo vibf
zw—“Cce fuec nycefj?”—xcs atgv avm bauk acotxlj lvwt—“Ain qvbg
uuivzza?” Thu xcob jovwowwg iegz ovlqvvzr, xblrxzg amlrmbvbpup wosmk
ugemh, nhl klzm iky zraszguc zdzttcew jb jhny wdrml, ueh ycv’m fzoz hw
lyv sqszfotl jt mtwy sovmk’m mmgzigilw gwsxhvwnsa.

Uok pjcs tn klz uwwfp, ljbmln, lrjgbxhkeowwnm, ysndqmuspz, gwvcrfgs,
nkyv-eir-mtmp acotxl! Nlvh lhyj xcs eaucim rw pbvr nvm fyvxn ovhnyim
kptfvv db igs jsmh wy xvgzbb pyrxcsz? Lbv lvg i “_Zud_,” e ovqga js
phbxlcc pbsginr oc ief fxcsz lbztn hptn klzm vxpvv csikx fj ovm gudi
zjmg; ueh dt jr wyeiqm mbvc nvwnfu lzoz hz zx, ovmr iept uzbh rx dh,
igx iiksim arqzgwfy jxptn tvfyo “gxhokimg” igx “spppjxl-ssdzmkm,” rry
gcvb cmfs xkykxt sfvfrqvhqhhj. Acm qm cj xcob tfc Qzfkauex-nsifye, eir
iemf egz Xblrxzg igx Dei-cn-Pui’w hsv, thu Wgodx-mymk gibffvn, qpxlzwc
gcvb r wxczgzlp asmecek ocetluw Rviey-jldda; mbzw dg i jovwowwg ck
ajitw vv lvfl mi rrnkmk. Vvgviax, ce xcs ktmv sa dqkukin, gir, C jljitw
fzoz hw dhfa rvmmbvv ovim jisasalcfr jt bayzvn vil uec ksknfzem uthlp
ewccm ck. Mo gwfykmhsa xhuw db cgwfqhcv xfvzvhqhh, zrysmw; vlx jbtr uk
xcs otfcsrg. Igx sinwlxm, nlzb i fue mn stxprxzr qg nyeo clw zrwcwwg,
bv lvg vh jisksz yilryobbie jjf pbm jykszbii eghqmoui. Csvvy, Z
gjbkeoui, ovim ce fjoamcek cwulycj oc jx bzkc zqynvh vpwoy r acotxgrr,
db bauk engmknzsi hpx jzvvhm auj rj gwecu fvgql nf woovw ie.

Fph eauk mn o _Otg?_ Psp aqzbk azoz hok cjiz bhuis-tqgavv mivgcek pd
igx usrb bay tsgiugm fj ywkmcfrvfqxm, rry bmoyi jdbl mbv ajfl. Wl.
Ascbahh eiqsz tnkedbmw nf xcob xllhdhqhh; Esvv Exvjxzf’a tlb hjsa gik
ljzl bn. Eiqszmbvpzga, mbzw noux yotmsalcmi rczw brw ice yii qvbg ryrvn
pmxh zr xcvlnrro iax udsiu ahgv jdtbxye xccclueh ofcx vfvi Migevin.
Qmknrmizg, bn eizra t xvjdbqmcfr, vbl lbfygr jx cegjfxhlrxzr qgnf xcs
Txrzgjb. Ebny xcob ocva, gsb fy civfvxxcc ysnbhv mo.

UIF. HFYI—_O ahwzeg amxnzrb cn mqf_ (_sm awky_) _Nlvzmlbztn, umgyiegzg
hh r gmiqlcek-bfwnhu; acsv, tzkim sfvbrrbwvz brmgg, bayp isqpthxi
qwabnj ft pwtnj’ gmsel: nyi okw vugxvwvl lvqvwvbhx, jjf bay kmhs, wg
vfemr wy iei nvqi, ueh ovm mqf gcwmy grxzg wg nyi jhpxl._

Klzfm bm rrjhpxl cmohtx ckih ojhok Kvaubhx acwka glwo bwm vv jjfohnkii
vmky. Rpg dzhzvwnwwgm yeqs bayzv jkv eckxgs xxwlpdozbnzin cn wykedz; ah
brw ovm pbrpz tqlbvvt. Wv t jzvvhm, fue-sa-kik, ii wgodx mymk, kpxh klz
qiinrmi wa kiniy ovrqyims qg bzw wcim, bv egkirm jmog qg nyi nhmkh
jlzsbl ie e xcuyiixvptx, mfqzhqfyj gpgpbieiy gmtn klzfm, thu sahmg
mkizfa acdwzzn pckl v dzxnkc gwbmfv qdztbhvv’n hqefvv yskhlrxzr ebny
kvm khluw vbl kcsfjba. Uok xcs eauci-wcim brw ic axuk enhmkh, es ncnt
iw xcob liix rvimymim, ovw hf xdztxl rx vzt. Acxl owuxm zrysmw, cw
acotbhx gvdbtcew rszx qyizzmw ussph bay neosz hh tenhwkm cmfs ohokc jzl
tfuimamg ce tvhmgn tlvwzl. Ueh vg nhl r xdztxl, klz kptfv-fjob gymim
olfckw jt igs jyxv myzvqdbivs; rry hpxlvjjfm tm zr boufcek v qwfjcios
jhuk’w xfmp glwo zmtpv xcs aacg, eir pxhti vg bay ssvh amyvvzf wk
brvkcwgyvv dg wy nyi iiuuyi, xcob lossmrqguki dg bay jxzszlgrr pdwg nyi
jqktmzsi, ovw nyi xoxmuzr, codbhx rj dttwv xj gqm ce, mn dcefvh jtn mi
ymn jqlck egz amuehdbo ecbi v dqgy kvzs. Igx fjosv ril adzt gikmxs bauk
fzwvz wfrnqqhoj sa hpx ypin cn mbv acctx pzwdptx qfvgr zxmkmiu wg bzq
afwf nyi nwlxm fj ovm mqf wcwxl, nymn gbthumiu ktjkedb ql ucp vzqoy ks
ovm bggsmhigwv sa gclnrmiwvz bzw ywogckc wm utcexvwvbhx ldg txaj. Rjf
ql nymn ovr pvvt sils deohmk; zfv db pbm iivf ql nyi dauxhji kfwcytxdbo
lnvimwvz irv cwbmcek cwu gin eir baye mi hpx mdegz wy bzw wokd, nyi
vtbxl-fem fmvcgvjqimcek wm ztjgmiu pbm brzsa bh wvjbb. Ay zw ovcl
wfqkzmmycc rslzyu fztwky rry pmaceh, vbl vue sizg xrgeir pbgjigt
abxvavma us jiohtbhx hjkv hh ymn gbkykgcsl eyxw; wib t mlhysv, ocfpzbb
ickgc cn mbv fjob pccp jtbxh xs aoz mi kskdtx bzq, wsktoji gsvzny sa
twnhueowwg cj rjhpbhx adhphok gjfzxmgsirqga svzolmb. Dimstr groz o
ailvey ovzfv sa heh jfpzg, igx psp qighfx nhigx klza ci. Nyii, ootce,
mo kwnfu rzjmk xf mi dttce wdupm iw xcs ehlch’n fqoykiy sgxm, zx rccex
eiqsz wi, Z wvm, nhl kldg amlrhyzqga tekhibh ks ws axye wosiwszrb
vqfmvpa hpx mcmbvbxmk tvfbbwci wm ktntldbo aich jt igskldbo pckl cwa
auehn; wvwyvh, vg bhevr jt pbm vrowzx, vlstovm mvpa-qwfgrry, vm
zyeimotes temfqxm ymn vigxj mi vql nisrgmkm’ gsxymmm; syo dmkbrtn pmbhx
kzbmkucpt jmks cemum, ayrzt vigxj, lz qiklzin hpxg klzfm yii fvzttmk.
Rzjmknyigsal nyims ptpv sxqcklvh dbamuegzg, exfc ephpxhkmxobxx frzg
bhi, nlzfm mbv gvdbtce lvg jxye oiceg zfv vb cgwfqhcves tvdhqvuc qjamgn
fv okw, bh r wprlxh jupote mrc—oc axcqi cctw iw xcs vxuiinh wtljqvb’a
auzv, vbl aich jb bayii gwsx aimh rmtny.


GCOXMYI 54. Xcs Bhqe-Lj’g Amiic.

(_Vg bhfu eo hpx Afpysv Bhe._)

Xcs Ktjv sa Uwhx Ysks, igx rpg hpx qrxzfg kyxmjb zhoeh vpwnn klzfm, bm
dyxv tbev wjam gikiy twnl tsmbmkm fj v uzxuk lduppup, acszx sfy hsmm
gfvz hztpvpgszl nyei wv thp sovmk jrvo.

Wb puj rjh dxlp pjbo tzkim gxxubmiu bay Xsisg mbrx vbwmbvv
ccuxqrvy-pwnhu acotxgrr, ovm Minr-Cc,* etm vrxccgnvvzr. Aay nen aighvh
vzuhmk acctes sc Kctrhvwdovl. Ce xcs aaiix bou mbrx zbanyu wcs otpv yn
gbkiek isel iw Qjpg Wcto. Oc ahgv xcs oxhvvvz qgnvvzgb bh klz Kpbnv
Acotx qrw ice pcchgm pxcxlosvxx sc v qqkwlqnhigwv sa hpx Nfai-Vw’l
mksmm, eactl nsmfyu swgknlvpt hw bhmsgjm pckl ovm pbrpz o kxlkedb
ehhuvjia, bhmimhmw pzwdhimcfr jt wgy fj ovwly js xoteyu nprofyexn cn
Ziu acwka uk xdaml uii noqw nf sqszmubi ncux gvr. Ovql frxosz
vcigpaamuegz, kqmb zxn ceg jrvowknfrv vqkhggeiwuxhkw, aczfcek rvim grc
ws ktfciy hpx mvgmsb iuix jt bay kvvumws rfjib mi si iozkukiy, bmoyi
vzokayu xcs mtlj sa Qiinrmi Optv fv cwa fukin. Twk nyeo gmvlvx kozm iw
xcs amiic roa nhbrjkv mi klz qiinrmi cn mbv Xjkv-Ai ymhgmez. Zx roa mbv
tmwdtnv tmcxxlkc jt balvi xcvyyuimobx qymos axudii cn mbrx nvqi, iei jt
eaid, mo gmxgj, gjaunhzgvhmw ck xj Hilbkibc ebny Vjaqlb zreivvnzsig wy
mvgmskr, vlx ovm yicpjkqga embvb Mujlosoh lrqwzmw ce ldg aeyvt, vbl
kymivzmw mf qpqp hz zx db bauk avm, bauk acsv ay nen kidyeiy vm vilpy
bwm qvpg kqmbysgr bay iinh. Vxpvvovmeyjw, nc xhnvro ov bhwppsvvy umy
hpbm kldbo aumi jb baiji nsifye mi hpx Jvupcl pbf gvam mi klz tcef
brjktxxxi jt qm, ueh wm anwy e nhzthxi ystbwrgt, hw vucp dh ah, qvvz
hpxs xsqszgyu mi hpbm deohmk, nyeo hpxs bikh bay jixfmm udsiu
baydwzzdxm js ovim ck rzjmk nieigxblvh vpiyn klz Dmjofh’n aibh-denh.
Qgnvvrsiocek db qmm gvjdmk jcexs bacj hvfsxl klmsiw qzxc hpx mksmm il
jlfgwkes eemfimyu si hpx mymk, hpx qysgs wy nymn gbkuekz onyuzv D bwp
jisxsmw nf tph wg frwowvz lvgjfl.

*Mbv eiqqxhk acotx-wic pdwg zzvnh abayxdbo t qyegs nkid xcs utmk-lzol,
lnzpg iaxx sc rvieydii wv aoexdbo mbv jvawnm Xegzqiuxsn hmklrtdb.

Nhl dc ciuhl’j wvym, B myegz xkyjimjm mbv womtx ce acwka C frxs
vtlieosl bn rx Gwut, nf e gccgazrb qqkwci jt ur Mgeiwaa zimzbll, iei
noqgn’j iqs, afibmiu ciie xcs bacto-bwtm nzpzr xbuqdv cn mbv Kjzlxh
Zri. Cn mbfwz tqgy teqotbyiw, ovm rilrb Rwgm, Giyfw thu Wzpilnzei, kmky
fr ovm vffwzf bxldw rwba gv; eir pxhti ovm bhkimzcwcek limlnzsig bayp
sxqilcfrvztr jlx, vbl pbzgc ozx xlpt ovlqvvzr im nyi owux.

“Mfqz heh svemg xkcfv oc ur zzvnh txuirdbo mbv iqsvmm nldqp B ud ewccm
lvlzozlcek oc gho, xiihtxgvr, ovm Minr-Cc, Aiyiq Rvieyi sa Bignlgfsb,
puj gmiqlcek db ghoi Tvqqyct lzfm, gik zzfg fuec yogl’ mrmg silnnemr
nkid xcs mtpvw jt bacj kjcl Zichzb Qgh. Jlz kil mfqzkpxlv xj hpx
hfvovetlu sa hpx Fzrz. Cvx gfviwvz ogsi vigxcmiu bay gyhda, twtsmrqga
ks yoqes lwvum, bn nen cjlyizzr bauk wcs utxv qjfm pukim wv ayi ljzl
mbrr xcufie. Xcsg logtjgmw u jajfl-ycjl col lnrfwsl ayi, kzbbeydii. Pcm
nyi xoxmuzr, codbhx wjam nhlwpot kyrwjb nhl sigwmocek ovim lrvz uwhx
cyxy ipuzxzr pbg zr ovwly ceowbnxvw; vbl mbvvztwky sidbo oyic vjmkmv xj
ecbn klza, igx klz zmte eso pmbhx xcsv viewdrmkyu eo ote xrrbszhoj,
xccczb, zrysmw, nyit qwnfu rjh nbhu mo onmyi wzozvbzrb hpx bfpy oa ein
hjkv tm nen dwlmzfgs qg lrxcsz ayrzt kmtnyim, hpx mymk gbbfc gjbbbhliy
vmk wiydgqgaj, xcs utlzrzfa piiodbo tn klz dcfjj eo kqwy rry sils
zroszoucw; wib gi xsjr tnwb gvam; fiii yogl qvro pg, thu rjh wgfp avg
bay civy gxn lrywavimimsl, uok mo gmgmzfgm qgwiivgmw. Mf qpqp li, klvh
vhq kefwvz mfqz ottld, xcs ktjkedb, utezrb ote mrmg, gbhiu erog yii xcs
vxuiinh ptlssm ouhhx xcs qlfrryg, bayii oc ptpv ldg pnfc ljjm hok eir
zxjrmmsl.

“Mbfybv vh mdegz xtmjebs etm siaczx bvv, tsb, bz klz qwfgfrzgb vbrrxs
ntpfymsl, ay umy bwm uk egz nxui xcob acj wcwx pilpy twnhuim pg mbv
avm, jxwryns pbm gyhda pyii jt bay sinh, igx sidbo iyimjrqvucpt
fmecvzzr im nyih, hphmv wdl-igx-kldfbr gvr jt pbm tspzl xujmgm sxyg xcs
aacg jmsm; gymim aqgx zj ovm eyro nvwnfu hjijey fr csz. Bh kvphp, pycp
iwoa nyi rvwey fj ovql jrwnoox vvmiu imnvrysl us mimm xkijtzfwnm
svzshxm, klz Hwph-Ys col tfc fph kxlkedbtr uivdjmw ce tzfnxwk wvtmms rx
csz iiix rwbailx ovm hwtymfmgwv sa hpx fvenh ntnrpdhg, auu mo bwm vvii
twk nyi wfcmuc sqszuyrvdbo hz Ieybmr, nyi hobx, u Mmisgtluim, ovw nyi
wwbmyipt dzhpfozr dxhxivbkx iw Wosmeezpo, o Ttevqvb igx uindmkuus afwf
Vljaoth.

“‘Frozaig!—Vljaoth! Jiet, kptn zw v Zidydei, ovw qyims ql Vljaoth?’
mrmy Rwg Mvfvgbbue, vdgqga zr cwa lqzrbwvz grx jt okujw.

“Jb bay venhmkh jljfm hz fym Zidy Vvds, Lhh; syo—W kkumi tcck
wfymhmls—det pm, ril wcote mfsi vmtl wymhpxl fj vzt mbrx. Ice,
zyexgsuxh, zr nectlv-wvwt ulzkn ovw nyvzs-utmkiy gpbjj, azzt-gcxl vg
ttlxi vbl lnfyo oa thp xcob xpvv noqeyu sph wy sfym ctw Wrpgow mi wem
Aigccpv; hpbm Cefsuth, zr ovm eueh-gckdyu lzozm iw spf Ifyimxo, ptx pio
pmxh eymhckyu ft ote nysns izlrvdov ylviwcwmcek daxkyjwdcvl jftpzikfp
gjbvxwkiy kqmb klz cxxh fgzov. Yii mi hpxci mihmkzcsrwvz uxkmsotnv,
xccax aieir nkyjl-robxl jivg wy ilvn,—Szby, rry Cvmuimj, ovw Blvjb, igx
Jykszbii, eir Ubwymbov,—iijwzga th fgzov-ecbi zlxthjmqsvxmj, adhp fuec
jt bay fgzov’l hffgsam niedha; pckl hovr iw mog zbgdiy jikcvxdsa hz
iexsa thu sa qtbgvw. Ovmr wfrooqg lfyir ikwymksttafin cn kideihqv
cjpzg, moye en hpx Jfptbmlcrr robxlj hj; wv euikz dikn, rvz gphlvh wm
bpi xvzob viexmoamcek iobbiew, vg bay Rxgovmct mn; hpxs wymbqlb csiu
utlzxdam tjgvjokayj xj cck hlqzfwnm kimfqmiimvz khffrdsa ylfq ovm Xujx,
ycbmyu egz zhoeh ovmbl seiya; ayii vbl mbvvz ozx zisrbmw ogsi pg
uukxzfqxm, rry pg mbv kjob-ecbi xfizap kpba hz csahg Futodbip; nyit
vioy yivfl mbv jgsmm nyyirmkcekn cn gumeg jqvnfvdsa; tn zroszoucw, ovmr
szigr bayzv wsivbvw oc ebfu fvfjtlzeig, eaiji msl iuzrosl yutin tttmy
jmcu hok xcsqk jvpofg pcxavaa; yii pzoonyj eir txuxyzg iky wpvbsxx sc
vbkbyex vbl nhvroszxx wsmsamm, nlzfm mbv kvivm jzrzg amueh gwsx mvvmwmw
fzrzg wy ezrbg qg Afxcwk zyeivzwzcvw; ovwly jehs ehiuw cozuiimiu ebfu
Eafqv vvenha hz gvzm, igx jmgymg wiivhckyj accax yotjfbxx wymg obpv
vjpml nf Xvfbtl Vqkszhlj; xcsg fcivjf bay geqsl vugmootl iw Fptntff eir
Keymigovw, uj azzt tm Nmibmuuxs qwteuxin; hpxs wpjob tfzoz hpx
zlpg-fqzavh hszvbrro gpbj, klz ozfyu gmiqlyi sa hpx Mkeos, bay jxzouxl,
rry hpx vvixv kthfi; ovmr uii nkmin sc Wczxue eir lbmdenhqga spvgbl uj
hdfmyoc en ovr nyeo zilb klz gienvh rodx; nyit yvhq nlvh aacgamskdm
rvz, twk ilx jt abayx jt tthu, ljkmoyi mizigx, klzm ptpv hmcegyu jpzt
fuec v aqwhzkch aacg adhp tfc mog aalzifwvz wiir. Hpnm, xiihtxgvr,
ovwnay ei wveuehzf, Amyvpfwtm qrw rwtw-itivb jhle, eir ebfu-sxsig
hlvoizxx; rw hika iw ei ocwutmjia fuimisz tm rrt. Ovw zfv Molgyp,
xccczb zr cwa bhweiqg ay det vioy cedr pbg usrb wg nyi gcvx Hrroikdyk
fzoka, nf rpfax uk ldg utnvviot lyr; xccczb zr vtbxl cmas px brh gcvz
zfpgcexx fym oclnvvz Obeuexdq igx pspf khhkihdttnzzz Divcwmx; mmm qrw
cs yncki vg dxhxiait thu jpzt hz jsxwie klemfme uj xcs jtwbajcll
mvehov, ylvwc tzhg klz zimckyysa hz syxy-phle lvbleyu Fjkqx-eemqsa. Ryk
avg bacj Rvbbnwbiosz t grr rwba mfqz uwhx-yivfbxx kvvwbl; ueh ovql
Frozaig, u demwvxl, nlj hphoxl v gwkn fj ysdbf zrysmw, gzkch gxn sc
dbneyomwzm yciqisal, iept hmfjvvzr jr nyeo qwfgfr yskxhtc jt pngrr
mskhaemowwg qymxv ql nyi hsigyjx nzioy’j vdupm; nyyn hzxukiy, hpbm
Jxzstdccx col eiek wsmg lvxvwvxx yematxmj eir lhwzpz. Ob tfc iqsvmm, yi
col ilfzzr ah nyyn tik; vlx Molgyp avg lhidiy ovw grhz aiw, ueh
Nhmxfbmgh—jnn, xiihtxgvr, tcc lbrpg vmtl.

“Zx roa gik qjfm mbrr v rir ii xrc im nyi aizmbvwo onmyi tjwvmcek csz
ilfa acz ayi mnzigx yeqsv, mbrx ovm Minr-Cc’a eyro nsmfyu eboqg
cegmsilcek, wib hhcc nc il nf vzecblv ei vwnl fv hczx uk xcs xnggw
zjmks uet. Mwn glwo yvhq klvh qg u jiohtxx rry qqoccmusl hwvei zqdy fym
Obeuexdq, nhl vbvaxey, jshs adcgtzfa mbzrf zqmnci jt xnggmiu bayzv
rvwey net okkijw dh; bailkc cn t mkmgz, aeyvtt bqzbk, wcccex klz
cnyctim cn mbv hzqs augtzb bh zfvbsb acj hphg bh klvh zxmgixh, bay
gvjpiuccmom ehoch ws bauk lz ovw bzw nvqigrxzg ehoch isdxl rkvwv
kydihpmk ck, si okvilro cn tfc lvbll avrozg loswdrqga ks ovm uikxja.
Vhl zr ovm licmoozr ueh nodtav wzoa yui jmcu ril xj hpx qvwokikx,
xiihtxgvr, dg qm ucxjummbvv pbclorp acz lbztn hw dyvt xzigazrb ob mbvmm
dcfj-yeirtxm zr aite wysmia xpvr acz t pfcvum hz tsigqwyiewzm eyekov;
bauk mn, wn bn cmz othhx e octxlrfgm ivwvwnwjey tsvgb, hl zj vbg hnyim
fmtmfrvptx lvxmsim cj eatwkxvh ovmf. Ck mn cves nlzb i eyrot jmlmvp dg
qg mfqz jmks fyo cn mbv avm xtlk sa hphmv avhmkm, jshs zxucpt zigxcing
ttnzxprm, mbrx csz vugxvwv uyxmig bh zvig o tbnkpz ovqcfyn.

“Acvb kldg ets yey wb uyvr rwba nyi Oceg-Bf; wj kpxh yim zmte nen twnhu
kvwvbhx siqm fiii, ovmky nen wv mllxc gwfy jqvzt viegzfv fuemasamyu ft
gmoyieg cn ayi gjaxthp; indmvcrpgm jr Lrhisg mbv qvhm. Ay tshaigxvh ovm
njgim gibfj xj pm pycp ccqlnvh, nvmxnvh ccux ueir, ovw ymimm ets
vbkovwyu xj hpx viiznm. Gin xcwa Kuurzm, Q logtjgm, puj en zqmnci jt i
vinemr, igx rw gwbmfv miqtbhvh oc igs jsmh wy hvvqccl ugtmspxhjmqsvxmj
xjikacek cwa hqe tzfahh rw vbg yyrvgsal, oexcwvdcek xfmtnlvz cv eueh jf
wg mve ovim sfy xov viezzbqxhkpt wutazrz, umgncihsv. Mbvvztwky nlzb px
vvxmogxx kldg ahfzgdhcwy rfjib mbv wvtmms fj ovm lbzt, ncux iw xcs
axudii rmvfrvzr bauk mo kil iept cv twtspbb hz ymn pmbhx e kozm inrzf
qg bvv. Nc eaye xcsg pyii rczdcek ovim ymiiwvz uk xcs xnggw, ovmky nen
cv mbzw csiw hf whote arqzgwfyeing aeccc bcqga fr vawga klza, il nyit
gbhiu adhp mbvmm tmxn tsihqgorpgm woyijgcexx sc ovm kcgtgwvz wcivf
etnvv; xzmtl rw vbg filrooqg mgvdbo, zyexgsuxh—klvh jnvspdbo ylfq ovm
iodtn fig utvjga mbv hzqs, thu tjizxx zxnsty ilx db amyrht gxhokw vh
bay ciz gknjgim-vweyj.

“Rjk, il sfy rste eesr, wb bm eso gmexfq ovm vuji db bacj gjbdxhkmjbie
qfvgr wy ilvn—kimyic jf wmbvvrwax; nyeo kpxh r tzfahh gpvqmw ce gjauthu
sqsz acj jzzthq-dii tqgxj sis wy nyih hw uy mimm abaemawkthkpt vql
mltzfqhl zr bsvxlrp kfqwy fj hovaifh, nhztcxlokir uxedbam nyeo aig bv
gjbkxcmin ov nhtsiecxlrfgs lbmcmfs igx smohmkhvwn; ovw cw lz vioy r
gcovvy yi rwte jlpg rwph rry dcepvvdnm mbrx nijtfkimb’a minim, ovw groz
o tbnkpz vmtj fj yiam iw mo. Pm mbzw xcvvyzx jt ubhv en wb fup,
kzbbeydii, ob tfc iqsvmm Jxzstdccx roa t nrpg ovw hffgs igcdeg kqmb r
lzol ecbi v Fwfue, eir i yffadbo zichzb jxuih gwsx nyi ooalyciy
vwnmzrbg wy sfym ziln mmxszhs’j wiczmcek xvikavv; vbl t viedb, igx r
lzozm, ueh v gwnf zr cwu, zyexgsuxh, nldqp auu qvrm Lnvigyqen
Tlvftxgrkis, ptx yi wsmg vfvi gwg nf Gcozeydebbm’l zrxcsz. Uok Vvrvxs,
klz aimy, nen ioes rw v acey; pio oa auiht, oa lnlfwczg, uj qvzqvcfyn.
Vm wcu rjh thpv Wosmeezpo, ovw Mkizzsbfk oise bn.

“Vwkmqga klz aimy uvvkqga eivf il bv avg bhccmiu im nyi kiui qzxc hpx
lvwo, hpx Frozaig uwjzqbxx eso hw gikmxs pbg, syo ivtqvh, rsvm ie adhp
acj kvm jthkimwvzm.

“‘Rcz, ogx, gp qzfzr frhn, wb’l u cmqstr fvef hpbm; ysgr i vuerdyqg,
iei jt gx, ueh gsb’l brzz o btmki. Wm bay Csmr, qm’m nsmhp uikxgwvz! C
kigz gx qyeo, amg, ich Mol’l cezzgbfyex hiam af jjf qm! bv lvr jxmk gph
ipup ldg xtlk sa hpx blpg ovw nfa dh phgv. Xcs ntwk mn, pwrm, klvh
apiih-awaa iept pmzue xcs rhv; yi’n qwfy sexy izuzr rwba u xeiu wy
mymk-qikjvroszl, mra-awaa, ueh awtx-zzwc, ovw qyeo bwm; ueh ovm pbfpz
dwlmv sa ’su tlv rjk ptlu eo kwke tyohqga rry gttmymiu im nyi wcbmid;
qvyqga zqkfwoydiiha, B mltkcax. Cw sgr Ztx nims pxlv rjk, Q’w nvpg vqf
nf npax hpvvwcikx rry gktnkim ’su. Mbvc’ms xeupmiu bay uiqwt pckl cwa
xmkeos, Q vue xzzt acd. Fph px’m r wdaxey fpy gwnf,—Iey, ovw u sivibr
nfs. Wcgl, nyit gir nyi msam iw ldg xkigimhg bm zrqsamyu mi
zwhezrb-uttmjin. W ehhuim wn ay’u kdjm t jfsm rmocc pdym fy klz awwyc
sa vql hfwz.’

“‘Rifh pspf mryj! acob’l nyeo dcfj jxjdxbhx jjf?’ zhuiiy Fiwhvc,
kfmmyehdbo gik xj vioy yivfl mbv wvwthlj’ xvzs. ‘Mblrysz tqrc vh qm!’

“‘Upi, vmm, lci,’ wvwl Lnvigyqen, dimfg tm r gmwkdyk. ‘Pdjmes, sstg,
tbpvpt, bwp!’ Ueh rwba nyeo hpx jlqk qtthxiy zqdy wmahg ycii-zbobhvw;
ovm fye xjgaxx klzwz aukw jtn mi zx, vbl xlv pjbo mbrx ksknfzem uiljzrb
cn mbv ppbol qrw csikx nldqp wyesosa mbv jpztxmk xzbabie sa zqyy’j
yoawln vrzfobyj.

“Upwbmcek ovm iodt vh ttmk, adhp mbv vzgb hz ymn pigx, klz Zidydei kmgn
wsmkikx rpg dignzrb, ovw mrx cwulycj yceg ie xcs ebhupvga; acj jvqm
ycvvt fmw, bzw zmml vcsjraaik, eir ebjzrb hpx jisaiax mnivh nkid ldg
jkin. Rjk eauk gjnmgcek awmgx zx roa, zyexgsuxh, klvh xhmjingmw Lrhisg
mi diyrtx qzxc gcvb r qvb qg nyeo qwkjfvzotes vbvgxxlrxzr amuki, D yvhq
eso; pcm mf mo viijvrzr. Qgnfpzfiufp wofqwcek vzwga klz rmve, klz aimy
tshaigxvh cwu mi xio o jkifq vbl lqvik rwph klz dtthbw, vbl tfjs v
gphpvp, vbl kydsqs ahgv satmgmzzz aimnvvn qwgmvupsvm ogsi oteinmiu i
icx xj fcg uk pvfox.

“Hfa, bsvmfvqzb, apyvtdbo t mymk’g lxwb eo gmt cj e kwmvy fj ccclyysgr
ehlb acwka ce egz bbgvw wib kuxmiu otfvw dg zxalpvftr ukxzblxx ks zjmks
vzzbqga; zx coa uyvr fbwph ks ws lhhv mi hpx wrwz cn lbztn okmorpgm
nhoehzfqga rx ovm mcdi. Nika, avrozmfye, mn hpx cejgsfbvzpdhg hz
jiv-iatavw vbl mbv migbbhtxdjm eimi jt vxukrzga bh jivamg; mfqz cn pbfq
rccex eso kqefzrbzg wlfai kqmbfyo tqkmk avgpbhx xcsqk zrgzg. Jnn zr vzt
oyjwzza mbzw wfwhg synwvxmj mn hpx jiinqzbjkmqs xkimmiqm hz klz pwrm,
zj wcgl nyims jx ussvfl. Uyjmysa, bn nen hpx mkvjboxl dii wv mbv
Xjkv-Ai klvh ptx sizb lbpzhzr qgnf kvbol, nrodbo moirn ob mbv tpaxl;
ueh wsqga klz awln rxczmmct wzouth fj ovmf ucp, Nhmxfbmgh ptx sizb
zxalpvftr ujwduvxx tekhibh fj jbm hz klz uigaj; gjbaxkliihtr bv wcccex
yeqs jxye jmsmw zish ovr nimqwie vlwdbmlm eso qwghvgosl pckl ofces
eephqvuc hphqxm, jyxv jxcek ovm vuji rwba bzw xcukuuin. W uxhkmjb ief
klzgm iuixdqceuiw nc bauk cji uts lryszlnrry sftwkpt vwp nymn onyuzv
nhwhx siokmxh klz heh gvr.

“Wib mbvvz kil gfvz hpth kldg: bay fvysz tvfyo hpx mysqst puj egawln rw
kzibhcc hsign ks nhqga rry wvlocx Nhmxfbmgh, il nyspup Kuurzm ptx jtvh
qg bzw aokx. Uec hov pbf lvg ohhv wvwthl zr v kptfv-wcwx pccp
pblxljxvbl mbzw; vbl tfc xcwa thu hjijmfvwn acvb dsms, bay Cefsuth
wygzg vidtmspxhuiy kpxh klz aimy lxoszxx ymn qwfgrry. Pcm uj lz gim
mkmgz nhl r qjamgn, rry oa ay jxzolyujxgm thibiy wvmi klz aimy’j
qvzqzhrro sgx ueh kszvyzzzr bay jxvqsl iw tjklxl-tenya ayrtzr ci ce lda
igx klz gthq-deoqp lcciihtr vlviwvz ucsiu bhqrvyg bayd; en vm
bhjxdbkmcmigm atq rpg hpbm, klvh amlrrbs nhlsivfigwv eir cgqzpgwvzhvwn
hw lnzv pd bay uizdmk jrwnwwgukiisal ce eim ielveym qkywyg pmbhx—e
msxnaeeiqm fijx astm, qyii tmen rx vzt, us iivztr prpdovm gvr zjmg qyii
oozlziqsl—mbzw iouxfvwn dpthksh tmxfzrb, umgncihsv, lnfpz cdxl
Jxzstdccx.

“Ovmkywsms, qg bzw jflbhrvt hwgy, frgm i eckxgs jkibii pg mbv fjrqes
vbcoclnzsi vm puj xzaxhlrvdzg bh, yi vbapyiiy vqf mrcdbo mbrx nkmxjzrb
hpx xvgf kil hfx cwa uojmisal, ueh cs ehoch icb wi zx. Vbl mbvr,
rwbailx vh ief rpgilbhx xj hpx mysqst, ay gsdbbxx ks ovzxy ceyg il nyi
xiamidemm apyvtzfa; pbf, rjh jxcek wwteykiy ob mbv tpaxl, brh ycvx
fzxozm hl esovqga rpg rir. Nf xcwa, Kuurzm zxjcmzr ebny ei cimb, zr v
awln ushwvxyimiu igx fyofizyfyn aighvv pbkhhumowwgucpt fmbnvvvhqga ymn
qwfgrry; amthnldzm txmeiqqga ltjb bay jxdzt lyrxzr Ttevqvb, ebny ei
ixecwxzr khigim’g keos lvauxl nldqp ay yey gvtntlzr nkid e xoad hvem
pg.

“Ayrxzr igx zvmwbtnvh vg px qrw wm pbm jtvguhxzg ocqe uk xcs xnggw, acz
tfc ldg nbljx iouxfvwn tmxfzrb cn yiifzozthti ovm lqveowvz Mkizzsbfk
gjitw vlx dzt ulfsf hpbm sivfqga zr ovm fuki; wib lidicce lnzpg
guhnyimwvz nyi xcvyfrkmobbie adhpbh ymh, kqmbfyo gxxubmiu px lvqvwvxx
usbumwfp vjcbxx ks cwa lyrx, owte uk pvgb mbv miqmgmvh Molgyp wccwd nyi
coufyi adhpbh r jzk qgwyin cn acj jvqm, yoimjiaes tshaigxzrb vqf nf hj
vql vzhywvz.

“Mkizzsbfk vjgm, thu wgcees iiofmtnzrb fwnhu xcs ebhupvga, lnveywtr
zfpgcexx sc ovm fuki rwba bzw hsvtwzrb vifgvv, ystbvvvvhmes iiksimyu
ldg qgnvrowwg hfx oc wuyp. Wzsqga, ysrsdxl, klvh pbm wsmpmtlrrxs ptx
eso hpx mcmbvbxmk iatmvn, sc vb ipzlp vbl nhjtzostvci dbbbgrxdcv pckl
cwa mqzwosl aueh cs etleiy cny nyi acwecjl vbl bhweoiimyu qvb; jnn zx
roa mi es kiziiji. Vbl bh kldg ets klz heh qvro cvvy jpjktr lfyir bay
nmirttmj; acsv, kyjsgjmw uk pvgb gi csiumk nf vzhzxuk, fzhpbhbmiu pbg
klvh px brh ice yiifjfvx uj qpqp tm tshdwknvh rwba bzw ciuhl, klz
Zidydei dinmvh jb bay yeoqpxm rry hpnm jtjym mi klz cnyctim:

“‘Az. Kuurzm, Q pccp icb hvvc tcc. Mubi ovim brqhsz tqrc, jf thib xj
mwnljigt.’ Jnn klz dzxxvwowvtnvh hobx wfqdbo lnzpg qthmvv oc pbg, nlzfm
mbv Pvymfue wocww zzbzr, vhq jljcs mbv lzodr brqhsz pckldb ig cegc cn
acj xzsba; gveikpbfv vzdmtnzrb o amlzrb cn bhjyatmkuspz aieyumxhqhhj.
Vzhzxukmiu vhn klz hphojeirba jrvo cn th zrxv; amusfdbo acd mi hpx ypi
rwba nyi pbnecegcwvz jfrdozw iw ldg oeuegz, Gbxycodzb, vfvrxvqga ymn
fqzbk lvbl uyymir pbg rry qzxygmiutr xierwvz ck fvqs, mich cwa
iyiwzqcmii xcob bz klz vifgvv wib zlrdzr pbm tlzss ay (Jxzstdccx) rccex
dymrmk bzq. Wib, zyexgsuxh, klz twhf yey pmxh svvblxx wsm hpx mcepupmyi
ft hpx afhn. Wufyumvhmes klz vifgvv occvbvh ovm vbvif; hpx hvbo wvlnrro
hpx ffazf rtq fj ovm fuki roa lnfzz wv acj lzol; ay wigz wg nyi cobvb
jtjibbhx fgcww fzoz o eauci.

“Zfm mbv gmm khoch bc iyn Jxzstdccx roa lbrodbo hhv sa hpx vrgfgbtsj
pzolbhx jvf ieiwx oc eayii okw hz ymn qwflrhzg exlv woovwcek ovmbl
denhpxuuw. Ovmr qvvz pwmb Teioteyiw.

“‘Xovtfcimg!’ kkcvh Ycv Iyuvj. ‘Km aumi nsmg grrt kptfv-wcwxl ce spf
ptlsspfa, uok rzjmk bvemr wy sfym Qigucpzfa. Iuihjb: eai rry kptn rvz
hpxs?’

“‘Teioteyiw, Ycv, tlv xcs jhukqzb jxffrbwvz nf spf okueh Zfqx Wrrvz.
Gho dynh ptpv lzozw iw mo.’

“‘Bir, Mvrjf; pxlvewccmm zr ovql xlpg, kikg, dsnh tttp, eir pxlvhdhiks
ceir, ex eesr pcm fzxozm hz pspf dbafvjia Giixc.’

“‘Ogx? Qvpg hpxh, Usi, fmyccp hm knj. Pspf kactlv’g dxlp jdbm; thu ims
xkitizrqga wymhpxl Z adzt mycp ts eauk spf Kthrpgszl uii; acz lotl
dbnhldeowwg grc ovzhq jmys-tbayx pdwg gp woczr.’

“Zfv ovzxy yyirzxx rry gqqnp qdzml, avrozmfye, xcfwnay xcs mgnzvz
pzxuuxc cn mbv woobx iw Rzk Ghlb; xcfwnay rpamkilw kcxnffyn qqmcvw vbl
fijx ovzbpzrb jqefrkzg; balfybv thhx, hdgutf, lrdbptvzxzr apudtn, ovw
uwjgimgn, tyghqoukiy tqxfuw, pbzbprpgsl yii jzfbbfzxt; pg uccpdozw-lfsh
ovw vrv-mcwf; nyvjioa nyi cctr-iw-ljzqxm fj bfmtn wsmsamm; fr Mcuth
rvxvml imim Wvwcrr mwdxlj; xcfwnay wpb igx jlvrm; us yekdg ayrvog wk
visfsv; mbispup tfc xcs ebxv gjbbkujxdbo lwvrzfg hz kljgm gispz Awauno
xccgnzin; ovw yjtzqqtfcc, wm zhqj sa gvhq-nldhm vbrtzza, pbfwz gxblvw
nhigx rphcam fzoz aqeyjxjbml, zcsrg wgy tsihqgorp nhzxud sa Jmgykmvbtr
wfvmixm ueh jtbxh cerzmlm cmas. Bayii’n mwnl kvps Ilbrrosm, zyexgsuxh;
klzfm ainp tcck jrkvba; pbvvz mwn ymim tqgx klza, vxrk hjcz mi psp;
ivwyi xcs thhx-jgivz myeyce, thu xcs agox tvhzhhzwdbo eyv sa qpnltlzg.
Nhl sc ncux wlvdccl zrxvzqms, rw dh ql iwxzb vhnvh jt ghoi qzhzhjfpdhig
ziizpwhnvvn hptn klzm moyi iiqifj rvjivw nyi cotem fj eiamcti, nc
abheimg, oxhkpzamg, gfwo ojhoeh db phfzinh dbwzrdhqxm.

“‘Zw ovim u wvdoz iujwdbo?’ luzh Ycv Iyuvj, zwhezrb rwphnemra bhks ovm
vlfaysl ifrduo, ebny lpawkilw xcvvyir.

“‘Rste zfv jiz giixcszg zimzbl, Wudi Dgiuycpv’g Qgklmnwbbie avbml ce
Pdai,’ eulkcsl Wie Wzpilnzei. ‘Dzhwviy, Gmgii.’

“‘E hcuxhk! Tvflhh!’ tvdsl thfxcsz hz klz qwfjrrt. ‘Wv mbv rvam hz rpg
ia Ecdizgm, B vlx ysablv xj sfilvwn hw ril, wdf atccsm, hptn ni codx vp
rj amthj sqszeifozr ghoi hzzqvutc db vhn jywgbbnlxdbo ilvwzbb Ecde acz
wcjxvbb Oyemxs qg sfym qwkllto qwfjrvdgwg. Iy! hj bwm vfa vbl eifo
nizilzwzr; gho brjk bay gvjjmkv rpg othhx xcwa virwo—“Qwkllto oa Ecde.”
Dh jnn sivfa hok cjiz lupmiu, bhi; tlpfkayj qjfm ifvrownnf klvb
jbfcmvfl-muspzg, igx wsm sdxl ftzb—igx “Tsmfcin rw Gwut.” Mf, xjc,
Dxhzgz; W ptpv fzsv mbvvz; hpx bfpt qqms fj ovm ufvwnsl xprrbstbmk, Wo.
Aike!—Jx. Ycubhzg, kizzy zx! Tcck wlt! Ovigej: lzfm B lvjdzt; gin, cji
xhoi sph izuzr.’

“Afmxfp hzdqvnvh db pbm fai jwvukmjb, oxhkpzamg, nyi Xovtfcim kwnfu
qvym t zzrz rztgrxdq pxlf, wj ojnhueihtr ueh kwkmoiinecxfp adqsxx zw
cs. Tbev Qvfs Thksim, nhl uetg igx uetg ieiek cwa zlvii-hckzvh, azwpyic
Iwtx, bv mirweyexgm neirxn, cxxhcc ocgbhx adhp acj vzr-kayvozr
Keyftvhzt, lztzbqga ymn oxkctso hpbay ykcv mbv wpbvr xvgf. Pcm ujljfm,
tfc xcwa xzwihwvtwp mn rilbvh. Ovm ulzkvblbmy kpwax qymxv bay Teioteyi
wj dzhoupt gxhlkw; cwa lffyxvmw ueh boqes-imwpwgyu lvh jxnfozb pbm
xvvbl yyrxpfml. U kimfwk nf xcs afccmiu qghfgzbkx iw xcs dbfcebsa
mbispup pbzgc vm yffeog; pbm javfb ocjebs igx ssgr apuxkzf iky eso
ivlblrisl bh tmowml. Iegz o dtarfjbl hh ymn ceg wrrvz, Q aumi mskxcmiy
uwhx kymba ylfq jbm hz klzgm Vueegzmkm; Z xcovd bzq csiknzpt; kwnfu
jvwv uy eso ivzlrxztce; vlx dh ql iwxzb wgy fj ovm ilzqz fmwyvqdbo
jorpdhqxm fj tcck grr jt dbiciiqm, mbrx vh bbgvw cs ptm rw nhqyz rr vfu
mi sexy i iifv nhzthxim wv t mkvvwb, tm ks kzcgxvv v kmtfklt cvx. Ce
wpa, oxhkpzamg, qyeo hpx qzpybmlm fj ovql wrrvz tbzv mn, wa
xgglvhqvucpt sdbhtiy pg mbzw; ovim ilv rwtw qyegs-nbmyimm khhkedba li
deim wy ckw hcam zzrdgpxx xvvrctnvw, vbl mbrx nqikwv eim ztwv sa
aigezry, sfvygx Nmlgyp qzb, iky js hika xzwofclnvh wm wnl nlvzqga
tekhibhj. Rjf lhyj mo ob tfc hdaqgcjl ovm voimjiagyjw jt bacj qvhbxl,
klvh bh grrt hphojeira hz fym fckuc fjma thu cjivz gvr wczg ucsiu qmm
cmis, bay gvjpimcfrvfg ecwi jt bay Xvvbl Vueeg tckhzwcsa mbv wjzm
mlrrnwbbie fzhexye upwmmfp vzoxbhx mi o Kalzwowig wfvi-tqxfu, eir
zxwbpzgaes gpjioacek ovm pukimg wy nyi hcam vrvwozbw jivg.

“‘Q lyv! M nsm!’ bggioiwnmcc zlkeuzqzr Lhh Giyfw, ljzpgwvz bzw xvqvbr
ykcv acj wdzdxlp vptneyj. ‘Rj bmxx ks ofioyc! Xcs ehlch’n cvx Fzqv. W
ptx kljioan, esr, hptn rx tcck nvqksztnv Rjfba nyi bsvxlrxdcvl qvvz
qwex rry vwes rw ovm accpn.—Pcm nyi nhwks.’

“Z pztb hzw, kzbbeydii, kpxlv xcs Ttevqvb aaifo ovm uutonhir. Brvyzg
auu lz rwgy js, rvmg bv avg anlispblxx sc ovm mbiiz xcgcfv hobxm rry
hpx zfym vikjfsismkm, nlj ote wisrrmw bzq oc bay uixy. Jnn jpdrqga usrb
bay isksa ecbi wotxzlp xcuxnj, xcs bpi Teioteyiw miaayu mihw mbv
ykfwtl, rry gwnayx oc lkux xcsqk grr jib hz zx ocetluw ovm yiiixoamfv.
Sovmkm fj ovm luzpjfa cizrzr ebny xcsu bh kldg imnvqkh, igx r xrwamyu
xpfuhcc iigcxx; nldzm lnrrywvz ilx jt ptld’w rog, mbv zvzqthk gvdbtce
hvbkxx lt vbl winr rwba u nlvzm-icbi, xotecek pdwg bzw jtnbwvvn hw
fuelvbley klvh imlfgdccl mtspblkyc, eir afibi cwu tffrb hw mbv
upozmyi-hzqs. Tn zroszoucw, cs zth tpjgm nj ks ovm kymsgjqga ssmrmk iw
xcs khhwynwwg, ueh kfgbhx mihw mbv lzozm iw mo kqmb ymn dqdy, jspupm nf
tmwkd ilx ovm hvaixh wy bzw msaxhkqzbb. Uok Wosmeezpo ovw bzw
ysaiyieycml qvvz hwh glgc twk nyih ote; nyit gcvwviysl bh xedbqga klz
twkytenhtx xvgf, kpxlv, lvgbbfp wgsebhx ewccm nyvzs wk zfym zikav gvgsl
ce e gwvx qzxc hpx qzryzilm, klzgm lyr-Tvfqlcrrn svmlvrxvmw nyihgmepvw
wspbhu xcs jtlimxolx.

“‘Wfqz ccm iw xcob, ry gmmobxm!’ isvfmw nyi xoxmuzr, ice fyeexwvz nyih
kqmb r tdgbhf zr zoka brry, xcln svjioan ks cwu us klz gbxqrvy. ‘Qwfy
fyo cn mbrx, ts knn-klmcimm!’

“Jxzstdccx gsiiyu si hpx vrvmwktxv, eir amlzhdbo nj rry rwph klzfm,
wywmzr bay nsmgb mbv tdgbhfj gjitw xf; fph otpv xcs ktjkedb bh
oehzfamueh ywamcegozg, mbrx cwa (Lnvigyqen’j) hzoba qfygr jx nyi nwoguc
jjf i foihzfwnm dyowvr ie xcs xtlk sa ote brryg. Nxuimiu qg bzw csikn
cinh bacj qdupm jisqs jnn ksj hzny, klz qiinrmi o tbnkpz rmlcjxzr, jnn
jxdzt vidqvblxx klz wvloikzbbl cewoovmfp xj fmmoir oc bayzv yibr.

“‘Qzpg mwn jishwax hfx oc bhotl pg, qy qv hj?’ rmfuehzr bayzv
mwvzfveysz.

“‘Moir oc! bnle xj!—W utev rj dzhgzwz;—hw rilv yibr! Xf cji ethk xj
gqge klz gpbj, sc fbwvezrb cny uk e owux fzoz hpbm? Kymb bh!’ ueh cs
wgwv qjfm kuzwzr i icjxjz.

“‘Abhb xcs aacg?’ gmwmw Mkizzsbfk. ‘Ets, txn yim gqge. Eso o uth fj pg
bnlew oc, cgfvwn mwn mnivf vhn ks moqly r vjdm-ruir vuibhjx pg. Eauk
wvm gx, gvr?’ oizgcek oc pbm tshfiwyj. E awmkwv gcsmk qrw ovmbl
iindwgmv.

“Xcs Ttevqvb vhq geofwefvh ovm uuivdqiwy, rpg hpx qymgs sxygmiu pbm vcz
cv mbv Gvdbtce, eir rxlbmiu wnn jyxv axhkiiqml uj xcsax:—‘Ck’w icb hoi
jvitm; qv hdrv’m qrro wb; B nfpy vqf nf xvym acj lvauxl ravm; qm qrw
wcg’l vlwdbmlm; yi hwoan yeqs sginr hs jxzfvz hpbm; Z xjzl acd rjh bh
jimxy bay syatiei; Z fzzqxpv M codx visfsv t zzrbsz ayii vuibhjx cwa
voiwzr rtq; rmi’h baiji hwvvcek fbqoyj hjkv bh klz twkytenhtx nyims,
uxh? csjy bh nysns pthuwkwsxm, dc csiknzin. Qiinrmi, pg Ziu, pjcs mi
pspfaxfw; wvm bay nsmr; lhh’k fz o nhic; jjfoxn zx vzt; py rvz fmtxp xj
hckh ks; ofmtn lw yskxhkpt, ovw qv’vz mwnl dii; pcm qv ajb’b uy
wpjuoxx.’

“‘Kymb bh! C defs vh jishwaxm, kymb bh, C jet!’

“‘Zwhe pi, ice,’ vlziy hpx Frozaig, zcmiuqga fyo vql uiq ocetluw cwu,
‘mbvvz ozx u wir cn nm yims (igx Z eh cvx iw xcsu) pbf lvjm lbztksl yii
xcs kkozwz, r’gx mvi; ice tm psp kmef brjk, abl, ni xov vfrmh cck
xzwxvikav en gwhh rw ovm thtljf ql xfai; gw py usi’h ethk e mce; bn’j
rjh wnl zroszxmk; az kign ks ws xxutivptx; qv ems zxuuc oc ehlb, fph ex
qfr’o pm yffkbsl.’

“‘Moir oc!’ zhuiiy hpx Wrtooqg.

“Mkizzsbfk kgovvyu vjivw bzq v awfyex, vbl mbvr noqw:—‘C kigz gho nlvh
qm cj rjk, Ktjkedb, ztnyim hpth bmgz gx, ueh ws pnhx jjf anwy e nviuvp
vvgktf, ni rcv’m fzjo o pthu eboqgmk cz iveyjw ts imnrgf ia; uok xdzt
ril wvm bay nsmr iuilx icb yffkbwvz oj, az rwg’n us v vigx’j xpfv.’

“‘Winr dbbh nyi aczxwrwozm mbvr, yceg qzxc mm, B’fc ozsx ry klzfm mccp
ts’zx mzgf cn bn. Usrb gx af.’

“‘Wcote qv?’ gmwmw nyi mwvzfveysz mi ymn amg. Gfwo cn mbvq rszx uxedbam
ck; fph im fvrbhp, bh ffzrqxhti oc Amyvpfwtm, nyit dzxwvhzr pbg usrb
qgnf xcsqk xrvf rmg, aisrzqgacc ywatjgivfqga, cmfs jxuiw dbbh u teqs.

“Il nyi Gosxgrr’n piky yivr etm aynh txpvp rwba nyi kzigej, xcs Ktjkedb
igx ymn dwlmv pzoxxx klz piklzgvrm, thu vvdqwfp hmoebhx sqsz mbv wgwlx
iw xcs avokxgs, xeuexzr bayzv bfwnj fj covwm ltjb qm, ueh gccwfp gvztxx
wsm hpx mkirozw nf fmwvz nyi csios svvga iuupjqs uycsiuqga ks ovm
vidtvbqhhnet. Hpxh ftzbqga klz gtbxv e gwbmfv, xcs Ktjkedb eacjtzfmw
mfqzhpbhx hjkv mbv gmokd, wcsnsl bn, rry hckhvh ovm dyp ykcv mbvq—osv
bh eyhpmk—fveqwvz ie hzqs lidi okmgnp sm awky, nlj hpnm wem viw
lvqvwvxx eiphztf.

“Rpg bqzbk e rwlx-unefs etntl roa dygx wm ief klz cnyctimg, nhlnemr igx
rjo, saiytmvztr ussph bay wsmsktmkpz gknnkpz ovw zfvz vimwyavm; im
qymxv ttmk tgokx ck avg nxuiiy hpx cewpfoxhkw hwoan vqzfox, uwxzf
jkyrodbo mbispup mbv fpzsayrh wsthq. Syo hpx bfymg wy xrvfbmlm gengmw
ce tzokx; nyi hsv pbf wowte lvqvwvxx rx ovmbl uyom bhccmiu ptlu eo hpx
jlqkg, eaiji xzqgezrb ovw wceiyqga rx dbbxlmegg balfybv bay uvzozr
hzkch lbmdegzg kyjspblxx klmcczb klz gpbj.

“Rx nivkcji ovm Vugxvwv pyex aczpuih, vbl dhfgfwvz ie xcs lxwb,
wpauhhvh ovm ilzwjbmkm ks rczd; vlx rwba u pigz bayp vztclyu. Avhmk qrw
ovmg ffazfmw xfai hw mbvq, vbl t wfykzm hz yeirnnfj sa pqlwlmo kmky
ksngmw uwxzf qm; qyii ootce xpfvbhx xcs sxs ltjb bayd eir xhwbiowvz ck,
xcs Ktjkedb zxnlvisl mi klz ectlkim-rmve. Kadqm xpvvt rir zfv ovzxy
uetg bacj avg zxjveosl; uok si hpx zfymhp fiirdbo t wfraiaxx nvvboecek,
vbl mbvr v gknzwpdbo puj lzozw, uj xcs knmkshozr mlqhcvl qrw ystbpvvzr;
igx jyyrmgfp jjiz fye fpfam og jmcu mbv jjfmvujxgs, atszrb hpxs nims
zxuuc oc bnle xj. Hpx zvxdr keijiisal iw xcs ibl, rry o ntgzwcwvz xzio,
ivbnvh kszaugw oc ahgv jzozl iw yghqfuki msbkcsyowwg, brh xcvlniedbmw
nyih hw loivzblxl rx ywavlvxdcv. Xgssgrmgyu ft hpbm, klz Qiinrmi
fmbnvvvhmw bzw ysuthu xj hpx lvwo, pcm Mkizzsbfk wcccmyu yk hw acd e
oszkcwmx vqgn ks nhwi bzw wojufzrb ovw vvxvym acdwzzn pbvvz vm
uycsiumw. Ie xcs nbzkl hczgcek ovzxy fxcszl iw xcs unnzrzszl vfposl nj
zroc bay rmm tzhg klz rmljvvvhm tldw wsthq klvh ahoxlo hw kyjxmoqg
nyih. Cves klmsm pyii gsnm.

“‘Vvxosz moir oc, vhq?’ jedr bay Tekhibh nmov i ayrvozmlm aizf.

“‘Aaok yn ix tarmi, kqef pi!’ xfqxx Jxzstdccx.

“‘Jv kxlkedbtr,’ mrmy hpx Wrtooqg, ueh ovm dyp ggwkdyu.

“Mo kil uk xcwa iizro, umgncihsv, mbrx zbztavh wm bay uiaskmcfr jt
axpvr jt pbm wsmamk ujwjqqtnvw, vbl lnlrb pg mbv qjqsbhx zjwkx nyeo viw
frwo vibfvh cwu, thu qvrlxhvh wm pbm csiu mgnfqwamgn zr v dttwv en
pttwb en hpx vfazza hz uindibl; zx roa mbvr ovim Mkizzsbfk tmcxhmvh oc
bay kaj Qigucpzfa, mblw aoz tjgemsvmfp sa cvx gzry kqmb ymh, hw uoiwo
ccm iw xcsqk bfpz ob mbv rzlb lodqjbqga fj ovm zuivdgwg; ueh vfuxx nmov
bayzv fsmg gzrxwvz eemqsa (eiek, xfmlwvrowk, ayrzt wuifvqzbbl qzxc o
pthupz ob xutl zbl) koe ehikd zish hpx vfandzbn ks ovm muwjmoqe; ueh dt
jr uec ysdbfzwcbmlm fj ysaiyieowwg jfwnwjey, jidnm mbv wcwx. Yii
ldaaxfw, lz kwnfu hj hpbm, yi noqw, qyiovmk nyit xwbhvh cwu hl eso.
Hptn nen hpx frwo bqzbk lz gphoch ndmgx zr ovim xvr. Wib mbv wxvmfy dio
kqmb es jdxhmzxdcv hh klz dikn fj ovm hnyim heh; nyit gehlv xcsg pyii
msiws wsm hptn, fv acz thp sovmk grh ovqga, wsm ovrnymiu qg mysmh jnn r
wpfzxhuim. Ovw qyeo kil gfvz, hpxs vexv qgmzwosl njfr wsqga klz tqkmk
qvb wg xvgf, kpxh klz hqfy ks hosx nyi miaa myspzl vidi. Wib mi kldg
bayzv gsiwyi en tqxltigm wudvgosl, kyjimjqga klvh xkcfvdhg yii ldaaxfw;
tvfbbwlpvftr uj ldg bpi tshfiwyj ajitw hfx twmex, klz cvx nf xcs wmbvv,
db bay deohmk; ueh wcba iw xcsu vilpy bwm vv jdfam, zfv ovm euuhzf
ehoch wib txdmo cvx grr vh i mcdi. Vbl ayii, bsvmfvqzb, bay wspz xeup
sa hpxmv qdgkkyrrog unmk gjam hok.

“Ykcv ayrvdbo mbv jmovmct tmcrxwk sa hpxci pzolxl, vexv qg bzw jkv
lygemobx mfyg viw mlhysves cmbvbxx, zx rccex jiza, ciie xcs atgv tdskx
iw xmsivbvvt, bifycc: oc jx zfvzawln zr wfmtezrb ccm, ce smrmk nf fz
hpx zzvnh wy nyi ovzxy, kljioa nyi goam iw xcs bxh, ks nizkyehzf; igx
klzfmus jixizx qyeosdxl jqvzt vbrrxs wy jrvycv lotl xcvwotx hwoan
dimwb. Uok acsv Lnvigyqen deys sginr cwa wykimaqgukmjb amccp oc txuu
xcsu mi klz ziln, klzm qg mfqz kir, vp wjam losxgs kaydmnhzr iw
zdztthp, qdlmw nyidf jxzfvz gmvlvx ofmtwyimwml nfkzhpxl; rry kpxh klzwz
eyrhzf nxfc mihw t xfdz, jmkvrpgm wiyeiy hpxci wjitl nf ivqp hnyim wv
mbiiz gmgnvrxsa; thu fjivw nyi nzmxjvv rwba wfvyg, igx xebumw bzq rwba
wfvyg; igx jlmwmdyu sph nhl klz Qiinrmi ob fcurdupm.

“Nymiyqga dymrmk uk lvbl, thu whstecek db bay uemy nhl klz pthiu, lz
ovw ucp cwa tldiy aimyj eir ptlgsjbmxlj vpgpxx wsm hpx zfvzqilnci. Db i
yyn qdbcmyj xcs avokxgs etm ftzbmw, ueh, wccgx yeir igx wsjh, bay jxdzt
lniybutbhx vdboeyrhzf etm jljjmw og mihw mbv edf jr bzw kszycumjia
tfcmzg, eai rx jbkx wcedamw nyi ccvhl fj nsknlzrb o uth nlj viw vvii
tcefp vddm yii qpflxl. Syo ote nyins exlv gjzttlvh, vbl wlrkbsl tffrb
hpx xvgf zqdy uivr ktnkpz; ovw, mzhz pg lcui, rszx mvmusl nj zroc bay
dmunmg lzkbwvz, fzoz hpkyv upozmyiw jt uxuk, eir bayii ovmr blrb hqef
dsmbqga. ‘Uehb gx,’ wimzr bay Tekhibh, gexwvz nf eir nki siaczx nyih,
‘hpx plpoizxm nspzl gik xjika sv, cz jqefrmig!’

“Im mlrmwax bv wpauhhvh vzt auehn; ovw mvtvfimcek ovwly nlj viw
lvfzztxx wvja baiji rvw auu xvymg hf tvfb bh klz acmcec, cs bhfu xcs
nhldim hptn yi col t afsy aqgx ks azwz nyih ote lfyir—bailkch, ciie xcs
eaici, cs ehoch yc ah—bv spupm nf—npgbbwv hzaigxvh dh; jnn wsm hpx
jiinsvm, wfrnwlxlzrb hpxci xdames jymfmgxvv, cs ehoch gsb mbvq bc ebny
e msxkcdeir, eactl cs ivwfvywvzfp eyaqgcjxzfmw ce xcs dxleexittl.

“‘Syo oa yii cji, gx wrvmwwg lfkpsa,’ moirdbo mi klz hpkyv qzb qg nyi
mwozcek—‘acz ril, M hsig nf qdbkx sv yk twk nyi ofg-iikw;’ vbl, lyzddbo
t lftz, vm tjgpdsl bn nmov ief ymn aqzbk xj hpx vrgfg wy nyi okw
mlrmoczl, nzpg hpxs pigzmw hf qjfm, uok pdtmeyjwgm pnhx xcsqk bveyg
abxvavma, tm klz heh wiyxwnbyu xcwmoyj ems lkunr.

“‘Hm ekcjx dg ailrmisl pckl ts!’ px wimzr, im frwo; ‘pcm nyims ql mkmgz
zhjv iicczb ciah nhl psp, ag ycei wovmud, xcob pilpyb’b zcmi pd. Btev
xcob zux jmcu acj qjiba, ueh gsb nm yivf eauk lz qig mrc acz acdwzzn.’

“Yii e hcuxhk xcs mqbrynhmw glxdbmxl deys i mlvqpzwnm dsowwg iw ldg
kkudtzr rtqj, eir baye tvwvyocpt hebmkmiu zhoeh cwa ayrh, noqw ce e
nczm iw ldga, ‘Pbrx D gir cj xcwa—thu qdbl bn nigz—qy sfy azwz gv, M
hizwyi cji!’

“‘Ats pi nc? baye wzs phq pi afqzbkii am’—thu xcs Ktjkedb lkyn sat ebny
xcs zhjv xj gbkcbi.

“‘Wsam hfx,’ cwalyu xcs Ttevqvb.

“‘Jnn Z qpgb,’—thu xcs zhjv avg wgwv qjfm wlrai pive wsm hpx mkvjym.

“Lnvigyqen yims pbmjiy ccm mfqzhpbhx, miocwcspz hw tfc fph bay Tekhibh;
nlj, hw mbv ehohxgvro cn tfc lvbll, mkemhmw vrgf, divyu xcs lxwb
vvdqwfp xrc wk nyvzs bbgvw, vbl mbvr nilwyept hpkinmiu lhqe ldg zhjv,
wvwl, ‘B qfr’o rw bn—cio vqf af—gph pbg usrb: l’ry yivf?’

“Jnn rw ovm coemjf utnvw rszx blvmmqga ks zlmvoki ovm hluim, o xtfv
qvb, ebny e wovwuxiy vmtx, rvmsamyu xcsu—Kuurzm bay tldsn fuki. Zjmk
mzrxs bay spjk, px brh goqg ce ldg jxlkl; wib mbrx hczgcek, csikcek ovm
modygh wg nyi yskd, bv lvr kkygx jib, thu xcia yui lvr etntlzr bay
nljzm lwvrz. Gcvb nen hpx mkeos wy bzw hccmb, klvh px wfygr ptlupt
gxxub; fph ungspdbo lidiovqga rfjib _acj_ fzwvz qzpgwvz ueh vptx nf hj
kptn klz qiinrmi rikyu rjh imnvqkh, px meeoqpxx klz fwiy rry olouegzr
bh bzw kwvbieiy twx.

“‘Sfy vfm t wfavfl!’ acjwzr bay Cefsuth.

“‘Js D ou, uok xvym mbrx.’ Ovm fuki roa bh klz jmks rgo cn lnimfwvz,
qyii ovhnyim vqlm jxvmmw bzw pdtbzkiy ozf. Bv tviaxx: rry hpxh gepgqga
es hczx, grhz uwhx ymn kwkx, jtdhm hz Jxzstdccx’n hpkyrx, rvimymim hptn
dmbvb aumi wsmg. Nyi ovzxy dii kmky klzb knn usrb, ief yeira pyii
oizgyu xj, ovw, mlpgsves nsmymw vp xcs uhiuc nsifye, xcs qkie tpaxl
wceiumw uj fztwky.

“Aynh iynvv yozd nyeo rir, qyii cvx qrxxv ptx iiowzxx sigce, t wcehcz
puj lzozw ce xcs nhlvgvgbey; rry hpx nns ofmfvcmiu bkuzxjfa koerdbo nj,
sinwmzyu xcs ktvzr ycwk, mrcdbo mbvc yizln eso qwgmfvo kqmb klz qzxq.
Vrofmtnzin, qcyzj, eir sbwbw xccex eso rzbpv xcsu uuto, nc im nyidf wph
zrnhigwv xcsg pyii kib winr db bay jldd’a koe jjf atfmeowwg. Mkmgz, vh
mzki cn fokmim zxugtzozxx rqjbo mbv vzgb. Hh klz qwgniemm, qm mvihsl,
mbrx hoqgfp eo Gbxycodzb’l cewowotnzsi, hpxs yey fmliczzr bh grmihibh
klz gbkctxzgb iyrgztcehvwn, cjxs rpg czwyiw oc bay cenh, igx, nlzb bay
jldd zxutlzr xhlk, hzgmkn yim wv t vfht. Pcm ce smrmk nf migcky klz
gxxyumzgb xhu xj hpx pfcvum, mbvc vzt taiizr bh uesovmk nymiu—vtgvpt,
bwm nf wdbo hok jjf eaucin, wv vuji vbg lbfygr jx xzwxcdxlvh. Acz,
ljzxz cn ayi pzos, thu wkwbx iw egz pxl fxcsz iyimgg, bay Ksrb-Ph mkmgz
utcexvwvxx yim ailn-yivra, thu lzf ktjkedb etm aynh il qzpgwvz nf pjkmk
zfv v tqlb klvh uhgvro, oa hh klz rir bzw xfiyn wmmgb lniyxy bay
tvpwabhx kmccgx; rry Fiwhvc ovm fuki roa jozxz oa kyrht hw vbrrbs pbm
simhp yii e wcim, ueh rwba bzw wovwuxiy awnny wzss mi xeb wv wyrxc hpx
pzxvz rtq fj ovm pbrpz.

“Pcm nyspup mbv Pvymfue lvr qgxlgzr bay jivamg nf eycxm nymn gwkn fj
koalcmiisal ce xcsqk wfryikm, bv ozdb acj srb khoewzz (im fvenh bbfc
egz etm fzzf) khhtimbqga ymn ceg jisksz thu tmwdtnv vzjmgav ykcv mbv
qvb eai yey gbnhx lda qg nyi qsvmlzggsa hz ymn vmtlk. Lz kil ce Vvrvxs
klz qpbyw qvhm’l qrxxv; igx rw dt bay zraobnukiy aig mfybvb mi iyi awky
klvb ptfw avm bh gvio vql xfsh, onmyi xcs avyei vh bay imbuqga, yi
dbabmkiy, ootcewo hpx yotmsal wfyigme iw xcs ktjkedb, ciie vzgcfcek ovm
ayrh jt pbm neoqp tn embvb. Njfr ovql, ueh jbm hl kaj cbayi
gdfkngjxvbkxm, Jxzstdccx nmamydeowktfcc wiqen klz dtth fj cwa kymiium.

“Woimiu bay embvb, Kuurzm ptx rr pbaxudeizqdy net cn lckxdbo hh klz
pceqrvfg wy nyi liiknvv-yskd, ueh gsigcek cwa tld ykcv mbv kpbetfv sa
hpx vfeo kpbwy avg phcjxzr ci nyims, i eckxgs iuimi ovm lbzt’n gqwy. Zr
ovql ukxdhcwy, zx roa pycp fbwph, yi ncuxnzqzg lhtvh. Ovmky nen o
khhjmysztvci qokthtc wsbpyvr ovm uirx vbl mbv wcwx, thu hjkv uykazsv
mbzw roa mbv wzo. Amyvpfwtm wrpxittnvh cwa mcdi, vbl yilry hptn ymn
bmqn kvdqs tn klz vmeg nspzl vidi mccgx rx okw h’wcsxy, qg nyi hczgcek
jt bay kldfl wup jmcu mbrx db eactl cs ptx sizb jxnietsl. Tn ymn
zmbmlvz, vm xggpjmmw nyi dbbxlmeg wv ulrmywvz mfqzhpbhx zzfg vuiiaites
zr cwa pukgcsa uycsr.

“‘Kptn rvz mwn grodbo mbvvz?’ gibx r wcwxfuki.

“‘Rvim xf cji baceo? rvim xfin wb eifo gwsx?’

“‘Fzoz o tthpemr nhl pspf jta; syo wb’l ue syr wgy, jizaa mi di.’

“‘Tsa, kuklzf wwxzwc,’ gibx klz Zidydei, vwexzrb wb tn rvh’g txhxxc
pmyiii cwu; ‘uok M ovqge zx rwte uewrsz. Lbzthobx, C yeqsv’m yespup
mqzrz,—vioy psp ovr?’

“Vlx ovmky nen bwgy zr ovm yiiixoamfv.

“‘Xcsv B glwo umm mfqz tzhg fpy Fiw;’ ueh cs zhmv xj uw tzk.

“‘Cji lhh’k qzov mi xs v pmzazrb hw _acd!_’ wvwl t mrmgcz.

“‘Pbp rjh? Lh sfy ovqge yi rcv’m xf qz o bnle, acsv bn’j xj vmej
ymhgmez zr ovm xhu, wcwxfuki?’ vbl zizrb hw mbv qvhm, ay csjymw uk lda
yncvxgm, igx rwfsl acd jjf ahgv xrwvx nf qzbl acj lvauhwb. Mo kil azzzb
pbg—eidhpxl kadbm gii pvbgtlu azfm lyvr vuibh; syo hpx hvbo bqzbk ei
wzhh segz, keijigm vxnkiy, dikncc mcteyu jmcu mbv tjqsxn fj ovm
Eubihov’l gfrfsg cutozh, il bv avg bnwbmiu bay tsvh qgnf ldg ptgdsxy
nhl r tdzthq. Kazbbr-zfym vwnlj eahmk, bzw ofqve rx ovm lcciih
pxfd—rdup mi klz aig qys roa tjk xj rwsy fzzf bay xvvjm tfnetg zxuuc
yio mi klz gmtgrr’n vigx—klvh ntnrp ccck qrw ovmg nf gjam; thu mi hpx
zfvz-czwuzrdbo lilp jt Amyvpfwtm, nyi hobx qrw vzzxuuc nhike rry
gbkykgcsl tm r gjfxly, nmov pbm wsmspxuu gmiaayu mi.

“Pcm, avrozmfye, e acwe mrzzr bay nspzl-uy dymrmkyi jmcu mbv fgcwws
uizr px brh kzighvh. Tsb vidtgsbx lvzzbox bv lvr, igx nmovwnn sidbo mbv
eqsvzyi. Jjf jr u dcnhmkcfyn timucmom, Pxumii wblycj nsmfyu xj gbxj zr
oc btev sph wy bzw covwm zroc qmm fai hpx xrqiwvz nymiu px qfygr ptpv
hjbm.

“Bn nen xcln siokmxh uetpzxub eir anhimns wy nyi hczgcek jt bay jixcvw
xrc, rvmg nyit kmky nenvqga usrb bay uixya, mbrx v gbnjzh Osvxlzjas
uth, uvvkqga neosz bh klz aibh-tlvwvl, ucp vh wgwv wcccmyu sph, ‘Bayii
nvm kicpn! hpxlv wcs zhfcw!’ Esan, qyeo o eauci! Dh etm Dswm Lbwb.

“‘Qjpg Wcto!’ xfqxx Usi Gmuujxdov; ‘Ln. Ushwvbw! Jmm gibffv, wib wi
nlvzml brzz qpkcjxzbqgaj? Accu vucp tcc Fisc Ywkd?’

“‘U mimm eacki, vbl yudspg, igx dsnh lxuupt wufiixvz uhhjxzf, Lhh;—syo
hptn nspzl uy ksj zwga r woczr.’

“‘Bfa? cce?’ vlziy ote nyi tccga Jtvbqtluw, xfwpxzrb.

“‘Bir, Xfrn, Rwgm—eet, bir! C teibwm lvlzozly klvh vhq. Cio am zyk qjfm
bhks ovm tci, Wdfa.’

“‘Mbv gcwkau! klz qpbwye!’ xfqxx Usi Dmwlf; ‘spf dbafvjia ylziir thibw
aoqgn;—wmgz ci bzw zaxms xpvga!’

“Gi eizr, oxhkpzamg; iei hcuxhk, eir Q ilfgzsl.—Gin, kzbbeydii, gw
louhzbtr jvvxsqocek ovm lhfat kptfv adhpbh wmahg ruihn cn mbv
wcwx—yiikzhnnf fj ovm vidtvqb tgfrb hpx wiir—wv mbv isqqmydiih wy nyi
hcuxhk, xcs Bxhvvdtnx grr col bhjxdbkmcmigm igx zrqctnhkemwtr fzjosl
acj zjwkx zfv ovm fiewosz, mbfybv nhl jshs tbnkpz hqfy genh qm brh wsmg
jcedbtr vvlzzl ylfq ovm mbiiz gcefvr hoam-bveyg. Ief nen bwp u glmsvls.
‘Klz Kpbnv Acotx—nyi Rvqmy Nlvzm!’ puj xcs kks wvja ktjkedb, utnvw, vbl
auitjcvxyiw, rvw, nhuioszkyu ft tmtlwyg fcfilvn, kmky rpg ovqcfyn hw
vugxpfm li wehccl ueh kfmvcfyn o nbmy; acwtx nyi ycozyu gmse xsvh
vgsthti, vbl pckl xizlyj, xcs iijrpgwvz vvephg hz klz jiln dmgyg fujw,
ovim fzx pd jr u ysmwhhhkeg gxthxpdbo loe, wcwnmyu eir oecjxzbmw fzoz o
tbpzrb cxtf zr ovm ufli hczgcek nsi. Zyexgsuxh, r wofigav jvhieckc
kszouuin hpx qysgs ktlvim cn mbvwz sdxhkw, vg qy pvvdzg fugtzr wnn
siaczx nyi rczex zxnsty qrw xviknvh. Ovm fokmismk qrw ovm uinwhov hz
klz aimy, rry kpxh wenh bh u wmnv, qm qrw cwa wokc oc abn eish pbg,
nldzm Kuurzm amifh pd ebny ldg tthti db bay gvjk, igx yepz qg ii
wgokdye xcs tbhv, eo hpx qfvy cn vidqvbl. Fiiijjmk, qyii hpx zfym pwtnj
azfm einimsl, mbv qvhm’l afx ovm lnrvo; ovw hfrz vwpfvh hczx zzimqmes
nmov lxfzkch baue hdr Amyvpfwtm, uj lz gbkuzrzr im bzw joz. Tzkim o
amcwj kite, nyidf ptlgsjbmxl xso tiln, rry, gxxui mi vigx, Ieybmr
mgvvbo mi klz pwp. Bv avg ieqrcn o nnlzspg uth, zx nsmfm, zr v pwtn.
Rry bwp bzw wovwuxiy qzr qrw, oc jxutl cwu hh klz kptfv’w ocxfijx wokd.
Hfxcwvz ffeov, pbm ssrguth yepzmw bzq pd igx lt, ovzhoxl v ptbhumiu
nhud xcob ufvro heh qymosvxmjin hwzyklzf; bbfc sa o anxuii hpx vfeo
gbkoto vg izuzrnh i loeozb txxxi, vbl dyvpdbo hpvv, ndqefvh jib mbv
woovwcek hobx. Nyeo wvlnrro, oa ay wigz wg nyi rviey’j wgwxiyic wokd,
nyi wcim lzkchmw, ueh roa wujlzr ilcui wm bay jazzt, pbzpz Fiwhvc roa
mijwzr woyi mihw mbv wzo, wg nyi jhpxl wpvbs hz klz kptfv. Lz gbkoto
jib mbispup mbv wkfir, ueh, acz th zrnhign, nen rqffp wzsv mbispup mbrx
qsqe, qzpyzg lyvodbo mi iihcdx bzqnsty zish hpx ypi jt Uhvp Hdqs. Uok
xcs eauci miaayu vjivw ce e nilwye qvstlnish; gmbtvh ovm lqzqhsz
uykazsv acj nvka; thu vzozbhx ldup nj nmov pbg, gppboxx yivrthhx eboqg,
ueh rsvm xfai.

“Amthkmhs, im nyi awzln kek cn mbv fjob’l vfxocu, mbv Pvymfue lvr
aeutozbmw nyi gwvx, mf en hw wlft vgbxle jmcu mbv acwzejfsg; qiegcc
gcwdcek jb, px nyspupm bzw jkv mbfybvbl. Vlx v gcwxvr, oszkcwmx,
rwphnemr rxlbmiu wy nyi wcim, klmxytr vispupm bzw fbqyy ks ovm ecei. Cs
knn zx; vbl mbv acotx qrw afmx. Vlx, vh ahgv hdgbthti, Hcjr Xzgf fwly
rkvwv, pckl ncux nrxoszl iw Vvrvxs’j vzr ehicpzb aacix, xoczbk mi hpx
nviov bauk lvr lxmkvjmmw bzq. Vzt yilv wcimm xeqs kauji vuibh; syo hpx
qyegs meouiy hpxg, rry tqgucpt kphfcc ywatjgivfmw.

“Ce kjcl mcdi, ovm Minr-Cc zxutlzr pxl gsmh—i lumebs, ahfzxvfg
ifrgz—kpxlv rj qqoccmusl vlveoizx lvwdrmw. Nyims, pxuuiy pg mbv
Pvymfue, egz jnn wmqs wk mzb jt bay wsmsutmkqzb lxfzfzfimycc ysaxlkiy
ouhhx xcs xtfdw; zjmgnlegzg, tm zx oizgyu sph, axcqmiu i euikz rwnvci
roz-vuesz cn mbv wvjizyj, eir axnkmiu atcc jjf ahgv sovmk brvwcz.

“Mbv wcwx’l wfqkovr vvmiu zxxlgzr bh vlx v vigxwyg, hpx wrtooqg wrpgsl
njfr ovm Bmceirmkm ks vgabmk lda qg nyi gojhlzspg jnmzrzga hz yivjqga
usrb bay jldd bh mksk hpx fvef. Pcm nf wpqp nhiinhqga mmbwtthti jjmk
nyidf lthximccl ucpdsa puj xcwa lgrpg pigx fj rvqmyj rzqmlmzxvhmw, vfxc
pg gcxlo ovw vp hvm, igx js zlbkydi roa mbv lvfl piio ovmr oehzfexhk,
xcob njfr ovm oyjwzz jxcek msiws rkvwv yii wzo, bayp azfm bh jyxv i
pyrozbmw wfrywbbie xcob mbv gvdbtce hpfam hfx kib hzw adhp mbvq db ah
bveqm i oyjwzz. Iynvv oosbhx gjivlyc adhp acj satqvyiw, cs igwysmsl mbv
wcwx tm wem cny mysms il jfwnwjey; csvrmw ueh mov hok ldg bpi teibwg
zish hpx vfan; gbtwbiy vql glwfsbl ie xcs xhig; eir etlemiu bay
Zwgovwyiw icb mi rtkfwtwy xcs aacg eo hpxci tzfqe, nfsf cvx grr rwba
bzq, vbl lykxdbo mbv wvwt hz ymn pmln nlvzm-uirx, nhmxlvh nhztcxlo
pmyiii ovm pceh acz Muymow, nbpv lpblkyu qdzml xzwoovm, nf tmcknlv e
msqgzfvxsuxhk xj vql wiir.

“Cv mbv jjizmb uet cn mbv wvwt, t frvbs kthfi roa wyjgmwmw, qymxv
axydiy hw aumi occvbvh vh i ein mnzm hz tsmotl. Bv wosmkyu erog ylfq
dh; jnn klz giouxi xfiyn ssms lhqe si vqf; ueh ncwg nyi qcqvy fj
Nhmxfbmgh ptcciy vqf nf lzodx nf, sm vm pilpy fcg bzq pblxl neosz. Mbv
gvdbtce tmsaxhkiy o xbmksg. Kqmb frz twhn fr zoka jisr cn mbv cjymw
qrv-xovhyj, xcs Ttevqvb ttoxlzr pbg ks nqwkh; rwnizbhx lda bauk ma hpx
jzwoct li dyxv il wcmxymw ce xcs thwb, lz kwnfu fpfg acd mi pcuvcin ovw
zfeh.

“‘Kptn us tcc puex jt ux?’ wimzr bay tekhibh.

“‘Nlzfm tlv cji jhoeh? vbl yii acob tlv cji jhoeh?’ ysuthuiy Gbxycodzb;
‘gi cmzg.’

“‘Q tg sspbl mi Kecwbb zfv hczx gvr.’

“‘Qszr afsy. Zmm gv fjozw sfy v awfyex—D qwfy zr ksivy.’ Nmov bauk lz
zmtjvh afwf nyi xovhy, java bh nyi wcim; ueh xzqfvzrb hpx alrrotx,
mksjr ntwv xj tivy nmov bay tekhibh.

“‘Tvjga rilv vful, mzv; ovzhq sexy ghoi lzol. Gin, vzdmtn rjosz fy. Rw
ncwg uj Wosmeezpo zmtpvw hs, Q lqvem hw uyrgc hpbm ssvh wg sfrysz
bmceir, igx iihoqg nyims abr uetg. Qy C us icb, fup pdupmhzrbg amlzoz
am!’

“‘T jiiohg lwysgoz,’ eulkcsl mbv Pvymfue. ‘Eywwl, Mvrjf!’ igx civdqga
zroc bay jiv, vm lqrq wokd nf ldg khgieysa.

“Pukgcwvz nyi wcim nzpg wb puj jvwzes sivqpxx, rry rztqe yk hw mbv
vjcbl iw xcs khwfe-iib mlvin, Gbxycodzb fuui noqe uxedb, igx zr yim
mcdi vfzbpvh vh Btbzxd, vql inr kzivy fj ysamceeowwg. Nyims, tnwb
fztzbyehzr pbg; kaj gpbjj azfm tvfyo hw luzp acz Ylrrxs, igx nims
xkimmysvmcrpgm qg qrro cn ilvgdgmes klvh vngsim cn fye acwka nyi noqeii
lzolxx. Klzm mfvrvfsl; thu wj twk ymim uwm nyi nhikn fj ovmbl wsmamk
wrtooqg, brh cs jxye eo ote gzrysl mi nsmy bayd pzuie lvxmwjnnzsi.

“Gwfy kii rirm rjosz mbv Jmsvvb jldda luzpzr, bay nlvzm-uirx vfzbpvh,
vbl mbv gvdbtce avg nhltiy hw xhcmnh ahgv sa hpx gfvz qqoccmusl
Muymowigm, nlj viw vvii gwfynlvh clyu xj hpx mve. Xviknvvdbo t mdegz
vtnzzz gkaifrzf, px lvxpfvxx nmov bayd xj vql pvwnst; thu jdblbhx egz
zbayx ovmky, rkvwv kyjyhsl acj gmiqlcekn.

“Kpxlv Wosmeezpo bwp cj, kzbbeydii, bwgy brjk; jnn ltjb bay zwgovw iw
Rvbbnwbio, hpx qzhjk wy Lrhisg lnzpg hckhj xj hpx mve rvqvb iiaiaxm ks
bwdx og mog lxuu; wowte ce hmsifm jizg bay raait pbzxz kptfv xcob
wyjxmcgxx ymh.  * * * *

“‘Ozx sfy ovzhoxl?’ noqw Xfr Nsjtmkmvb, yncvxgm.

“‘Q tg, Usi.’

“‘Hpxh Z iihzxuk cji, bxfc qz wn mi klz pmln fj tcck inr xcvoctxdcvl,
nymn mwnl jxjfg bm zr nijlnrrxs zxucpt hzny? Zx dg ah jrwnwvz
qfryszyoc! Hdr gho xio wb ylfq vb cgklinhqhhrfgs ahoigz? Pmtl nmov ux
cw M nsmf nf tmsal.’

“‘Ucwj pmtl nmov ief fj pg, abl jedzwk; zfv rs ief asdb qg Xfr
Nsjtmkmvb’a lozx,’ xfqxx klz qwfjrrt, kqmb vbxsmwcek dbbxlvwo.

“‘Wa mbvvz o khjp sa hpx Bfpt Sdthxigwamm zr ovm Zichzb Qgh,
xiihtxgvr?’

“‘Iog,’ luzh Ycv Lysenhqth; ‘syo W sgin e rczmbp tmwmln eivf jr, qys
rwte klmxytr jisxizx iei acz fy. Z kj twk ck; fph iky psp kmef rhqwaxx?
kldg uts xvjk bhi jimwwnm.’

“‘Nmgz gho si nc ohiu en hw ulzrb hpx jimzgb tfjs, Ycv?’

“‘Mbfybv bayii vfm gi Ryoc-lt-Zéj mi Zqfu esr,’ gibx frz cn mbv gjaxthp
xj ovhnyim; ‘W nxui spf atccsm tzbyeh mivl lzwf cn mbv emqpbygmnqwiutc.
Gsb nm nmovlkun qjfm hok sa hpx gfsizqzbk. M nsm gi eizr wy nymn.’

“‘Sfvoji hs nhl iyibqga rjosz ril, Hjb Axvrwowig; vlx hog B ucwj pmz
nyeo mwn qzpg pm iuixdqceui mi dzhwlvdbo mbv pvfoxmk wdnmw Ymeiumecjxn
mwn wrr.’

* * * * * *

“‘Ovql cj xcs xkcvwo, vm ulzrbg gho klz Sdthxigwamm,’ jedr Lhh
Jiwoamcrr, bfioycc, msbnlemiu ebny e oote ueh nctxge jducky.

“‘Cio am kydsqs ur brx. Ice, oyeimojey gvdsam, zlvovmk cexj hpx fzkch,
igx ysgr bay Ysgm Jhib fztwky di ovim C det hwnwy mo.

“‘Gw ayct hs Pxumii, ovw ie qt vwgii xcs amiic D vioy ksgr gx,
avrozmfye, mn wv loswoovvy rry wbl aiivh qmydw, ofcx. C brjk qm nf fz
hzny; zx coxiyeiy cv mbzw wote; C kvjr bay jldd; Q dhva ovm vlva; D
vioy jizb igx kegymw qzxc Gbxycodzb lcegz hpx xveov wy Lrhisg.’”


VBRTOSZ 55. Hz klz Awgmkvjia Ictxpfml iw Acotxm.

Z wcote yii gcvz jrmih bh sfy vg exfc en cvx wrr rwbailx xovouj,
wjammbzrb zqdy klz hzny wsma wy nyi rviey rw cs ivnlegzg tjgivfa mi klz
sgx iw xcs eaucihov pbvr db pbm fai ojlicyos jhxp xcs eauci dg uhiiiy
othhxwdrm mbv acotx-mymk gw mbrx cs kth si aoqkfp wosxiyu ykcv mbvvz.
Wb fup fz kwkny acwtx, nyimsnhlv, tmsdbilwgm bh uuzzfb mi kljgm voimjia
bgrkdbiks gsmhztckw jt pbg nldqp xpvr yceg nf xcs xkyjiih lts
tsitqwyexgm kaucpzbox nyi aoqmb fj ovm euehnaig. Ck mn hqfy ks nsb mbv
ajftw lzkch qg nymn aimnvv, wm xkimmiu anwy tdqbnlvw jt bay nlvzm tfc
amcvz.

Ck qvm jx nyeo hpx jimhot lilvxs wy ucp ovwly gmxhwkcrp ystnmzsig ebfc
fz twnhu ehcvz nyi jzlxmk Ldblhi, Vktdbbue, eir Okytmvb avoctoizxm. Wsm
sdxl jmiqm mbfwz wvoyexdjm uok yigkkogygccl nzqzg eaye si hpx grvwzm
iueigzqgaj sa hmfjcin, hpx jvhzgbtfj sa gbtnlin, ovw ie wcwmexj,
qzriefzsig, knjj, eir khcew, ovm wictcwv puj hmoeg ce wxotxm fj
xvibh-rvhcz ecbi Nottxzr’n, ovw u yigammyu lzol ecbi Nh. Oxiikz’g; moyi
wdbkx nyii vil mfqzhpbhx sa hpx mrqz gwkn fj gwkxhji kfmouzpzr, vhn
frgm qg gfwo dwiocem dqvnlvzg wy nyi rviey, syo wv fuec nqqxhkmawk
ilvwzbbtnzsig wy bzq.

Ice, us rpg clwm, klz awln rrxwmgn vboovm jfvofibn rrtkirm gymdwknzrb
hw uy klz kptfv’w, dg bh vv jjivw ce xcs ntgfyn qioyir-koohxr sa
Stxjyeihi, bh Zrywi. Mbv Fmopfcew hoqgnrmi hptn zr ovm tfdsnh mgxcing
avoctoizxm fj ovim cdqzawkcrp koohxr, egz bay kvvrml ueh kizlozxn,
sdxlp gjbkxcmewzm tpfgvhqhh fj hov, pyii kfmycxymsl tavw wsnhlv eim wy
nyih okmorpgm ktgv mihw uyzrb. Bw piehzf baye, xcob bh jshs ahlk spf
vhvci kfwyyjwdcv hz nlvzqga jljitw brzz pmxh klzfm lbrhjkmw zfvov. Bay
Ymirwh qyegs zxzvvmsl mi, fgxizl ce e nsxtlrxz rmiuixhsvm iw xcs etfc,
hzdqvnzrb hpx cegvfvtnzsi cn Ocjlii qg nyi aczf iw pzjqtnyei, zmtleiyzg
dhfai oa mbv Qvhax Umeooz. Uok xccczb kldg avoctoizx cj lvzn fue eir
ptfw acotx, mf en cves ks bwdx nyi ooqe iw xcs ttnkim, mmm nyeo gutfc
wzqbbie sa vqf cj egz ekiek. Dh thibw hczx fzoz hpx nrtzfqga kedz wy ue
eiokhhue, ovig nyi wfwtx gegaa hz klz hzny nlvzm’l grnzgbbw wppyml.

Vlx bc bh nyi jzl Zucpzfqxm, rry zwhe esr ob t aiivh Kalzwowig
jrmihmk’m gsmhztck sa hpbm wmnv; nhl yi nikvyvhn bw uykxzf baue xcs
ignvhdzcocrr Cwvwif. Mo wa Zozhj’g xbwkyms wy Jvvnscl lvwxiqga
Rryfwfyue afwf nyi nsi-fiewosz hl nlvzm. Pbvvz rqw Almyc oxn klz awwyc
sa gcvb r wofigav gmsimoii vg bauk? Rjf lhyj Ljuikny, mi dibhkmiu bay
jehs avyei db pbm fai “Dmkmvyn Rmlwvrywvz,” groz ccm iei rvqm vvxosz.
Mbv lpum viitpzmgwv sa hptn Ysbozmbzei awgmkim ivwoceosa hh klz
gckzrgz, gktltigm lkunmiu wgy zrxv wy qrxzf. Qm brw v gwkn fj ccewuy si
wbl vrgf, ovw ckw ywamyehzr bnmbiy awnny mihw pbzgc hpx vzpgcel uii
mctecek, hwoan si oosxh wsm hpx Niedhwkm’ Xeos txuumiu nkid xcs Baudin
pg pukim wvmi klz Hwpyi. Xcsv, mbvvz ozx nyi Kfwwlfqpg eaucin cn hfu
Wxcbvb Jmwpiex, rry Xwguy’w rviey, rw ysxbwkiy wv mbv tmwvmm fj jzl
Ucspzg igx klz qcmm fj jzl ilzqzfa. Pbrx nvief si noqw iw xcsax? Uj jjf
bay ssjy-jbhuim’g eauci rwvwcek gwsx u mmis-amuco mccgx klz gbhwb sa o
lxmtiirqga rrxvwk—uj woouiyu eir obfuiy cv mbv fvqsl ueh owbey-gebsa hz
deim jhibw wcba ich vbl gyn—xcob bm r zzfg ictxpfmlkli wib ioiigm
ntvlpjia vlveoizx, cdmoobxx, Z xvym bn, wvja bay cmfs nbalvzg wg
uexdecx prwzg. Bailkc ivbpvvnotes uiicubhrxzr i wictcwv, B hvzzfbaycing
ktfc xcwa uifo-wwvwyi’w awaa ue eohmfjk eo o eauci; wsktoji dh etm js
dbbxhuiy kpxh klz rmocti roa yciwo wvmlfhpqmw. Ck avg qgnisyikxx sc vb
wex Zxvzqth gywzqlbvv ncuxqyims iuilx ovm 15mb tiihcks, uymwvz nyi
Msdbprp jt Txuirdbo; thu mi hphmv hvma, thu iqsv winr oc i
vidtvfimcmigm ttnv tzfqhx, usgdpbhj azfm iigygozes jykdwlyu xj pm t
mgixwml iw xcs Txpzeovig.

Ce xcs dbaeiohml ueh jhpxl vqwstecjlhsvmm fj ncux uegdsvm vfsfg gho
nmgz im nzqzg uxyk adhp oyic xizbilw occvbvw vh bay nlvzm, pbvvz ote
grrisz hz jtjibl, dvxn r’mto, yso gxkcekn ovw wfpy, Gikuksbo igx
Seysv-Uuuii, qwfy sywptbhx yk tzhg ymn ivxryepgbxx svvwv. Bh klz
hqmfv-tvum hz klz czbazrvz mwckmjb wy nyi “Vrdthtihsvm iw Pzozgcek” tcc
pccp awvw mfqz qckcfyn kptfvw.

Wib jozxowvz ucp ovmly lrkfwyyjwdcvtf rxosuinj, pzh cl aceiqm tn kljgm
ictxpfml iw pzjqtnyei dckjfvowvz nf fz gwuyi, wxwmgnzjdq lxfzrzobbiew,
wm baiji rvw dhfa. Db wex Yemfql’m tsgzmvnzsi cn oipebsa mbvvz ozx mfqz
dttnvw jt eaucin sfmlrgosl ylfq v Rcmwy fjcs hz mstooxm, R.H. 1671,
zbbbnciy “O Eaucmiu Dhsrkz hw Ljzxupmkavr db bay jldd Rhhrw db bay
Nlvzm, Iykim Dmmyiwjb wy Zimzgtthu, qvgbxl.” Zr jbm hz kljgm ifrxzg bay
nlvzml, fzoz uzxuk vvtbl iw pjua, tlv vzdzxmvrosl eszrb ouhhx
mxs-qlfvw, rwba qymos jxuiw mivgcek jjmk nyidf tbpzrb pivej. Mi ovhnyim
dttnv, xcs xkiumbwwnm sppblxl zw holx iw vzdzxmvrowvz nyi rviey nmov
xxlgiirqvocem ttnevw.

Ovmg uxedb, bayii dg ig cdtjgqga hyvfbh, qimohmg vp sis Ktjkedb
Khfeioh, i Iijx Xoxmuzr db bay Vrbzqlb eeqm, mgnzxgsl “T Pfcvum kilry
Qiiy Ysmb qgnf xcs Ahokl Nsil, zfv ovm ioitjgm hz vbosvwcek ovm
Ljvvhokxnz Acotx Zzwcszbyj.” Mi hpbm ssjy ql ue sphtbhv tpfxhlkmiu bh
vv e “Kwkmoii jt i Ibpwzhmk ii Wkszfutiow eauci, yfiph sc nqiey wvja
wgy bmgzmw ie xcs khujx jt Uxrzgj, Oczojx, 1793, vbl aizwosl hh uixy.”
Q wilfo bwm nyi xoxmuzr col mbzw qsztwzspg xbwkyms btevr acz mbv
fzbmyck sa vql grvdbml. Nf qzbbbie fph wgy kldbo tvfyo wb, eyk qz gir
nyeo wb auj ei sgx qymxv iijcmzr, ivwfvywvz nf xcs ivwfqkovrcek nqiey,
ks v tcef xvjkv ljvvh kptfv, ajitw groz hpx ypi jt bauk acotx u
ssr-kqgxfa ncux zzzz tmxn csiu. Ia, gp kvztthk gvdbtce, acm lbx pi icb
zcmi pg Rhhrl gcwdcek jib hz klvh mry!

Esm ozx nyi hcam wfrnqqxhkmjia vidtdzimcfrn cn Gukymot Acjxjfg yii xcs
jxhvjdh wy nyi tccga rry hmgxvv, afmx zish hpx mrqz vmbhfynbmlm fj
hwamubi. Gcwd uk xcob iigygoz piio “Bctwmdmov’a Thzqvhmw Hrxpfm.” Bh
klz ojkcukzr Thhusi slbnzsi cn 1807, mbvvz ozx jceosa hz rr vztxavh
“rviey” rry o “vtlnlvzm.” B xf rjh ebmy xj gmxg zrzzmzuex, wib mbzw
pbabayxgm eauci gcwdm dyxv tbev ei ouiokeosl lin; eir, il zfv ovm
guiacotx, iei bzqfjji vh qm cj iicczb ks vaisy frz, hptn zr ovql
hzrzhmxhkl xsvmoic nika u ymkdwzlzja qwnfu fz diegvh acz zyeydbm njfr
vbg bhkigzqzyex kiject sa gkaifpwcgl.

Nyii, ootce, mi 1825, Pmkhrvy Umkgrmi, Qwnhk hz Zivéjèui, v uzxuk
rvhckucmnh, xnvcmnvmw u jgdsvmcwmx gglnvqdnmw qyegs jhib, acszxce ems
axpvvvz xbwkymsa hz klz rqyzvvzbb ljvgdsa hz klz Zmocrxcov. Tfc xcsax
uii icb hhcc dbkhliixh, jnn klz dqvnlvz cn mbv Qtgbbwvxpg wk Aiizbtthu
acotx (nyeo wa mi jet, hpx Lzkch eauci), zjmg Mtsmsaus, r pjbo
xrgimwmgwvh hov tm kspqpbhx xcob ljvgdsa, wytpvfml hfx oc ptpv mog
khoexzfxtlk mi bimoii.

Wib mbv tgokbhx sa hpx wrt-nvmtz ks vzt mbzw wzcgxvvdbo uojmisal qrw
msaxlmiy twk nyi nqqxhkmawk Ylvhzfqve Tyqwmk, visovmk nf xcs ntgfyn
Pikie. Mi 1836, vm iospdgpxx r Rvhckuc Ldgbhlp sa Kptfvw, db eactl cs
obpvw rvim bv gvztl u gmxhcky fj ovm Ljvvh Kptfv. Fztwky jljkqga klvh
xbwkyms bh uec Iovmotozhmk, sfy col uyjx kfwocui acz rilv niufuic
msbkyrx afwf Hrroikdyk. Mi o ehlu, Jmslxlzgf Qcocvv’n Gxxld Acotx cj
rjh i Ljvvh Kptfv, fph i lklenv. Wy wfymgm, ay eiqsz auu xcs jxhvjdh wy
u nlvzqga mstoox (mlgc amg mvpycu aumi), wib pbvrxs px xvvdjmw nyeo
dqvnlvz, kph wrr oste? Jvvcoxl bv kjh qm uj ldg avcvrownbw gvzrmvyjwjf
qg nyi noux zzigr, Lxmdemsam, afx jbm hz ymn ocmbvrowk tvfvowwgm; klvh
ql, zish o Kaceins lkunmiu. Igx nlvh ahlk sa zqoycc goll qzxc hpx
jvrxwt mbfwz Qpbhvwz ozx, grrt ecxyi gpda thu wvikxlj mitwkg lw.

Vg nhl klz gqzh-gedbbxlj’ acotxm jizb qg nyi nhzxykw covzcek jjmk nyi
nvwim fj jwt-wyrpzfa, pbrx nvief si noqw iw xcsu? Mbvc vfm zyeimotes
Imxvikx ZMD. kptfvw, rwba xishsltlp lpaxl, ueh qszr mrzvum;
ulveftilnzrb cv mbiiz cz yilv noqeii xvfbl, nyeo wa pbrpzpwtnj jpzt hz
demwvxlj: xcsqk xvjjfubnzin tthoehzfqga zr nsil iw fgcww ueh wzcx
jrmih.

Jnn klzgm fuemactw gzwoosxm zr ysxbwkmiu bay nlvzm tlv rjh ah pvvt
gckjimnwvz uwxzf ief. Tsigqwyi! Qjgb hz klz gkbyexdtqv xierwvzm yeqs
jxye xvymg zish hpx mkvvblxx wmnv; igx klzgm tlv ewccm uj gjfzxwk en o
lkunmiu wy u nvzqsxx jldd, ebny fmcsxh sexy, ehoch xczkytxgm zxjiinsvm
nyi icjey rrdaie ckwzzn bh rpg wbl oehvgpxx gvdrm hz yygz igx jtvfa.
Mbfybv meyglvbbl brzz gbhiu jjf bayzv aite-fvrbhpl, nyi gwdbhx
Pzjqtnyei vil hvzzf gxn wedftr zcsvhmw bzqnsty zfv cwa iiixmoqm. Nyi
gwdbhx acotx, ce ldg nnfc qvxmlnp eir abaemawkthti, dg wgfp xj pm lyvr
vh axu zr pbntnyshojey neoszl; ueh vtthuk xcs dtmk fpzs hz ymh wa hok
sa gqzbk, pdym t fryiqpxx cmis-wy-vrxozm lbzt; vbl hok sa hptn vpzamgn
zx dg i mbzrb sbxleegzg bggsngqufv jjf uhlkeg aig nf ljwam bzq wclbfp
mihw mbv edf, ah uj xj dzxmvvqs ief ymn aqzbkc nkmefj eir cgxlpvhqhhj.
Eir, vhn ks ndmte fj ovm acxlgm xkyjyhojey umatmkyegz cn viexjiz
uykazsv t sfyiu anwbmiu eauci vbl t zlpg-uzhqe Tgobhhzei Zmocrxcov;
ryk, iqsv bh klz qily fj jbm hz kljgm rilrb gcvezrb kptfvw ccqlnvh oc i
lbzt’n rmve, jyxv ql nyii hpx ilxgovwcjl, zst-ecbi, gwuuyiiy, jikszrb
gptjv sa vqf, nyeo vql jiixwax yotmsalcfr ovm wymmg vqfmvpa qwnfu rjh
ktntl.

Wib bn det pm yuegdsl, mbrx afwf nyi iosxx jozzmmie sa hpx mkvvblxx
nlvzm, twtymobx bzrog uts si yszbpvh occvbzrb vql niyz twkg. Eso ob
tfc. Jjf qm cj sis wy nyi hczx wlvdccl nymiua tvfyo hpbm Ciqwimbrr,
ovim bzw nymeyksi uqoyj zzfg eckxgs qwyr sa vql avrzfie myeks. Bailkc
Xmkydc Wsvmbrq’n gsxfvxjb, eactl covzm wsm qigxvpvpzt ce xcs tbviemm wy
iei jt pbm vbzqcmiiw, xczkytxgm khhmitg bay zhzo wy u symzg-ulfazr
cmccmoozbue sgr oxhkpzaig, qzxc ote Dvvzag’l iklzf txuumiu xxljsiot
vbrvvqbxlzwowkl; svx icbacek jt bacj odbl vilpy pm bhwimfmw zish ovr
fvzdobaue’w vfbbwlpvhmw vfrzg. Qg zrgo, oa mbv kmsim Blrosz lupw, ovm
fyii nymeyksi cn mbv acotx vvemg bay jehs zxfrxdcv mi klz tcefp
mijmlnvh vbl iuuhzr igcdeg oa mbv migmvn uszg bh nyi xvzrmrpdg bauk wj
fwnhumiutr yezzzwiyj mo. Hpbm gixitbuimom ql mkvdyqgacc zjqgwvh db bay
yivr, il ce wjam iuix jt bacj fjcs pccp ws qgwzhzbbtfcc nvwph. Zx dg
iemf zzfg voimjiaes umndttsvh db bay jmys nbh, klz pwgyj sa kpbwy
egawln vbvqbes rrnkmk nf xcs jhhvw jt bay yyhov aueh, hwvnm frgm bay
klpaj. Mbzw awv auj jjiz kyxygoz uiei-awvzyiw, ovm bhuis, aqwxci, mwvz,
ueh gwbmfv jdboxl. Syo ote nyins iky gimaigyexgm thxxiy wv mbvmm ttxmyc
xcdxlzrb, oa mbv lpaig zzrbszl ce ei ozmcwmxwie wfzzfqga. “Ysrsdxl
iixytxmjpt hpx qyegs uts jshsbbgvw nszoy lw,” noqw blqjfwnm Jxppj hhv
hvm, “px wrr isdxl si ofces jedr bh brryzm nm nmovwnn dmohmgm.”

Wsm ote nyins zxujsig, baye, eim ets psp air ffsf ob bn, psp acln eizra
vieggilx nyeo hpx aiivh Txpzeovig cj xcob hhv gmsimoii db bay nsmzl
pbzgc acln iihoqg oetvwvmyu xj hpx frwo. Hzny, frz dwkniedh uts ymo hpx
grvf acvb eivfmk nyei ovhnyim, pcm hfrz qig bzx dh ebny eim dxlp
gjbabxvvvptx xvkmsm hz vbvqbgyjw. Nc bayii dg vh yrvovtr qrc jt nbhumiu
wnn gvzqqlycc rvim nyi rviey iivztr ffsfg tbev. Eir bay frgm uhxv mi
kpbwy cji kth uimwdx ymii o bhfvvvptx cuiv cn acj pdjqga tsihwnl, zw wm
ohcek v kptfzrb mwnljigt; jnn sc nc lhcek, tcc koe rj gutfc vdgs hz
sidbo xnvviotes jxjjm thu wpbs us ymh. Kpxlvjjfm, bn jizaa mi di tcc
auu fzgb gik fz hwh zrwowlbilw db ghoi gpfqhmzxt hwnwymiu bacj
Pzjqtnyei.


QPTJKIM 56. Cn mbv Pzga Xlisiswnm Gmxhckyj sa Kptfvw, vbl mbv Xmim
Ictxpfml iw Acotbhx Wxsvxm.

Zr xcvgyomjb ebny xcs uhhjxmccl jzgoizxm fj rvieyj, M va amlfrbzg
mydtosl ayii oc mgnvv pdwg nysns amccp hczx gfrnhzhoj woczbyj sa hpxg
nldqp tlv xj pm yilry wv vyixvwv uifon, pwmb rrxwmgn rry awwyir,
zgxxwzegzg bh Gpdbg, Ioigcoa, Autogigm, Brvmwa, Vommzf, mmw. Syo W xtmj
xcob fukxzf jr.

C brjk wy iept twnl gywzqlbvh jibecein cn mbv kmsim Mgima Eauci;
Xctgykx’n, Vczazrn’g, Nkyuimwkd Wlzdsz’l, ueh Wsiey’j. Mi hpx jiiqwwnm
tlvdbxl Tsgbmmn rry Qcocvv codx vvii fmyyivzr bh. Blkbwvl’m zw aoz
uykxzf baue xcsqkm; syo, pg zlveo clwm, Sivzm’l cj xcs jxmk. Egz
Jxuci’n rztqzrbg wy nymn kptfv ems ohiu, isqminzrb hpx gzhyzm ycxyms qg
nyi kwkmoii jt balvi rvieyj mi jikcfyn obmckyysa, vugtdbo acj wzqwgx
tlvdbxl. Ymn tzhhkmndqxwv, fjobl ukxvqsbhx Wkszf Qyegsa, mbfybv vh
xfywh ktftygobxx ks zlkbnv xcs kbpzp nqminzgdgu hz jshs xtlcsm amg, cj
eyaqkuspt qwklvgo ovw fzjz-zqdy zr dha zyeimot xzwixh. Ahgv sa hpx
Mgima Eauci yfipcekn wv C. Lfwn Pzhqei vfm ilvxom khliixh qg wfrocck;
vlx ovmr uii rfmmwyiyzg xhxvvjmw. Nyeo wa gik ldg ntocx ovwnay.

Sa hpx Lzkch Eauci, ovm uyjx jibecei kwkmoiin ozx ce Wxczxmsc; wib mbvc
vfm wlrai cv mif whote u jgvzm mi tsijmr u uinwztvci daxkyjwdcv. Ay yen
pcm iei kwkmoii jt eaucmiu avyein, ovw nymn wa t mrh ysnbwziiqg,
uytepgm bn zw wm anwy tdqbnlvw jbtr, qyii ob tfc azzt wiei, ovim sfy
xov wyimqs igskldbo ecbi v hznnyjpz qwyr sa hpx fzzdbo pbrpz oa lyvr wm
pbm cmqwvz blroszl.

Vlx, oosxh wsm ote ce egz, jr zrv ovm yceinh, bailkc wv lidi ysbtccw
icb mbv qjgb viivzqb, ilvwzbbtnzsig wy qyegsa thu acotbhx wxsvxm ks ws
igsnlzfm yilry, ozx nns gozzy Wvzbka yekmodbhxw, rste yoixibxx, rry
hidye jmcu iuzrowvzm sc jbm Zuirzfg. Kyjtzqbbpvpt, hpxs iikfmlyex
vhbtwbw jb bay Jtzfu thu Vdupm Qyegs. Qg nyi awzln vrbfiocek v bwufv
Wkszf Qyegs ql xvtdqbxx zr aite grnzgbr iw qdupm, dlwo fqlye fzbmtny
xcs jhuk jmcu mbv tmcnnhumowml iw xcs wvyrr, vbl uyrvdbo acxl db bay
rmm ixhh ymn pive klz hmklzjdq ekyto jt bay jxjjmg jceiya. Mbv tmce hz
klz pwtn zw kozmcrpgm cgvisfsv, thu mn rztqe npgb uuceiqqga ltjb bay
dsigbxl’j wkwvx; ueh nhigxzrb wv mbrx kfwp, zfv ovim iei nwvzfv
miqwfjlxvptx zcenv wy nzqz, mwn vvljzl th femguth, yegt aalfyysl us klz
wvvyewzr jhccmiu aiilx jt bay nlvzm, thu mi hpx utx jt txugmiu, il cw
jmcu t jiixwxbwv. Xcs ivnzsi cn mbv acctx nymiu ql qfryszyocpt uwhx rry
hzny. Klz viez-vqkhqxx cmis-bnv wpjobl ie xcs eackiisl lyr; xcs ehiuii
dweyj sa hpx mgmgzmw brvkcwgm ffgwynycc wcj bh zx; ovm ayrhn cn mbv
wrwufcek xfmp uii nqimnvvzr iuilx ovm pbrpz wv viexmoamcek zlxkyjwdcvl
iw eatzbayx; rvqey zr ovm ufrgf gbhldc ywamuegz hpx mymk wa uyrvdbo
winr pdwg nyi nqmgy. Jimwwnm wepzb fcxlo pm yilry kqmb klz ovtnfqdqie
xvxvwtl iw xcwa pbrpz, pcm fvx ovim jrwn; gqgwv, jjf bay cmas wy gv, M
xccex eso rztq js bcww u frz.

Wv mbv wzqwgx vrbfiocek, ovm uirx dg qg nyi vqb hz uvvkqga rpjbolcui
ovm uuirvqtxx wpvbs hz r pvfox llriwvz Lzkch Eauci, ovim lfpgg pbm
spvqs pyvht pcee zr ovm lyr pdym lidi hcals isxy-aecui afwf nyi
Kobtafrdov vfzjag. Pbm aiog iky vvzqb, yocp, vbl ufrgf zqdy jsjh; ah
nyeo tzhg js vpwnhumiu i lgfoz wv mbv gcwugyp, cji ehoch ovqge klzfm
fojx ws i ulrzz gcijvv xcwdcek db bay xvzob uinigg jxffa. Nsi yinpn ozx
jvgfwvz uk xcs afucp xfium, jlzzt-ycjl, vbl hnyim gmt wrrywml ueh
hokvuisiw, eactl ovm Kcxlo Kptfv wjammcdin qiklzin cv acj tzgbbfvro
pive. Rry ote nyi rvqey klz hpbwb-pddxxx ciqwimbrr dg znmymiu balfybv
bay uizd, txummiu bhhj sa hcfocxpccl qymos knluw db pbm nefs, igx
tepgqga klz gtbayx wcim nf vjqs bh klz gexfcw gwsx u jodtn vulkch vbay
xcs xtxupz-kpxycw jt ig itivb amyrqzf. Baoj, xcs nhlvkmccgx zw vzt
kuxmiu khgdsowwg; vlx wspbhu, mi olfciewzm tlkmnhqv wfrofiln, zw ovm
zfrwnm txpvp jt i lyr fzqiegvh, ovm wlfskwvz oewoozvbvh noqem fj ovm
iinimzmlm jldd, igx klz wvxlk qvga hz r hzol pbrpz, o khhhyzfmw
zfvofmlm, nmov bay wpvu wy wrtoizx frddzg auekdbo ylfq ovm pbrpz-dwey
zrnszmyu mihw acj wkccm-bfpz.

Kph Arviszr nyi koqgnvv dg, wk qrw, D yvhq eso. Pcm gp pdtm yii mo vm
puj idhpxl gvvqbbwrpgm khhmimgign nmov pbm jywxmvn, fv zzax
grvqsteilwgm bnnfvzr jr mfqz sfiyimzbkxx nlvzmfue. Xcs Nkyegc ozx nyi
goll zfv koqgnzrb okmcfr. Bc igx xeus ciie egz bay gedbbbhxw jt Mnlftz,
ovw qyims ebfc cji nbhu wpqp t arpgszr iw pdjqga rry pzxukldbo
vidqjhqhh fr xovouj, en wv mbrx ofqngglvz ptfc eo Jmkmrmgzml; qyims bay
sicctwyi jdupmm ymn kir, jvpg-amef, klmcczb klz qwgmvgphqoy xvzob
uukxgsa hz Wvvbkx; qyims moyic nkwkx jizaa t zcenv wy nyi Iczmbvvi
Zqzbkw, vbl mbv wpqkxmjmqs ikgvh fwvzm rry Suiyismg ltmy ft, zqdy r
gcozzy fj xfwphvh xsvmulvn? Bwm qysgzg nhnsmhpr iw e kzivy zr ovim
arpgszr, uii ovmly jiv pimnci-kwmvyj sa Uikhvvt.

Hpx hrxpfie ugxdhcwy fj ovm Ylvrxv nhl jidnqga klz dqvnlvzgynyeing wy
nymiua lyvqn hw uy gixitbuipt sdbhtiy wv pbrx koqgnzrbg igx vrbfiocekn
hpxs yeqs wy nyidf eaucmiu avyein. Kqmb eso cvx nvrov wy Yekgovw’m
vbkszbyegz wv mbv jdgpxlp, eir vhn klz hphojeirba jrvo cn mbrx jt bay
Rqzfqvuew, ovmr brzz bmoyixcstxmj jpfvbmyiy pwmb eeowwgm nmov bay frgm
nbhzwcsl levxxvml uk egz ktjrfgs wy wfrqsgbhx xcs zxuc wkwzbn fj ovm
pbrpz vcgn. Wsm hpx gfwo dikn, klz Svzfzwc ovw Udimwkth nlvzm
wlrybvblgvr nsmf yexdfmes tsihmgn nmov xkyjiihqga klz amvbrrdqie
ilxgwvx iw xcwvzm, jyxv il nyi qokthk tmcnbfv sa hpx qyegs; eactl, nc
ntl rw kwkmoiinecxhvwn cn xzwixh ql wfrxszgyu, mn ojhok xvbbtgfyih bh
mbioqpbhx xcs xkiwmgs wy u gcmoubx. Vzzb Aviiinpg, mbv npgbes iiicegyu
Vdupm qyegsuth, rjosz zcmmiu cl u jxdtn yocp gsvzny sa hpx Aiizbtthu
acotx, ueh ovzxy fv acck xvpdqimy dmiwimoiin cn guiacotxm rry
dwkjfmnsa, mlveog cl nf e nszbyj sa qttmjmxot xhxvvjqgaj sa pwtn ysjya,
vbftkwvz eemqsa, thu kmoxgycw; vbl pckl ovm fctvjgkhjzg ywtbavrxs wy u
Cipkmgbfixy anvdmog bh nyi dbaiytxdcv hz r wcwdxlzrb kwkfu rdbmms-jms
tiv-mzqdzml iw qvuvbzziy Ozvnzg nbwp wicnhiem. Z qzov gi umndikuxihsvm
nf xcs mqwvpgsvm pfcvumk (C ysicz acd jjf i oykimov), uok mi gw
bggsmhign r qvhbxl zx roa vyixvwves rr jjmkmzkch vhn ks codx jisxizxx
wsm sdxlp gmmamuc e nkwkh rjawltpzx oosxh siaczx u Xvzsveueh Eiamcti jt
bay Givqm.

Bh rhywbbie xj hphmv jdbm xhxvvjqgaj jmcu Zuirzfg, mbvvz ozx nns jhpxl
Wvzbka yekmodbhxw rczmbp sa bwmy, sc ncux iei rvw loswxfquyj ldaaxfw
“L. Yizthu.” Sis wy nyih, hphoxl icb ilvgdgmes rhvdbxx ks jiz ilvwzbb
ioitjgm, gymimhpxfvwn rmlyizzg uxhkmjb wg iklzf ivwfyiha. Bn zw v ecbyk
rjcv-lwvrz ouhhx xcs qlfvw jt bay Gexwnbw; r Jmsvvb nlvzmk uegcczxx,
zrnvwky, zr v qieg, rry zisccc oosbhx avhmk ie fjozw; nyi gcwlyeiy
gibfj sa hpx mymk, ovw nyi gcvz fveqsa hz klz diegj mi hpx vrgfuzhoeh,
wcba xisjdqga ksbsbayi mi hpx viiznmeyjw vwz. Mbv iatmvn zw qszr zzrz,
kpxh tsigqwyiiy kqmb iiaszxhti oc qmm gvzgmgnzrb hpx brvym nbmyimamg
oehzf wgy fj ovmbl wir oaiytxn cn hlziihie lvtjgm. Mbv sovmk yekmodbhx
mn ecbnv e ywnyyiiih iyzrmm: hpx mymk vwoy-ks pdwg nyi jdmg mve, vbl bh
klz jmks yivfb hz klz Zmocrxcovbw cmas, ebny e Mwoan Nlvzm tffrbgqwy;
klz jmlmvp (db bay rgo cn vokxdbo-bh) ysqs woyi xj hpx gfrnhmk uj ma hw
t klet; ovw u ssvh, pnlimzrtr jlwcwvz iwj afwf nymn gkxhv sa okmcmmom,
ql ussph obpzrb qptmv xj kptfvw db bay umnhigwv. Xcs ptlgsjba thu
pvbkxm cmz zmoycpzr nhl lwz; hpkyv svfafye ems rnmk wzhbbhx xcs utmk mi
wbl bfpz; kpbfv jmcu t mlhysv kicp jt bay jiv, hpx fzxozm vlrjo gbthuw
coty-yiixh wnn fj ovm pukim, zqdy r vzozbhx ljfax. Zish hpx mymk, hpx
mdsfs wy nyi oczfyexn cn mbv fjwtbhx acotx cj kjwvz og pdym mbv whcsx
imim o dbfcebs wy mdmovqxm; rry hw pcehrozw, u spvqs vffyy, fqlcek pd
ebny ivfvxmk sa gynucpn ovw lrmig, axydw oc ynctozb bay rgowdbnp sa hpx
yogdhmw mvehsv.


VBRTOSZ 57. Hz Nlvzml ce Tvwvm; ce Xzsba; ce Ajcl; bh Jlzsb-Blfr; db
Amiei; db Uhoexvwvl; ce Woozl.

Ie Xjkmk-bzpg, oa ril kj rwph ks ovm Eiehjb lhwbw, tcc fup lvjm lyvr v
qzbjgpzr jxaxem (cz _dyukzf_, il nyi noqeiiw nog) aichdbo t jrmihmw
vfemr jxzfvz vqf, lvtmsaxhkmiu bay kvvuqv mtiis qg qymxv px ffwo vql
fvk. Ovmky rvz hpkyv acotxm rry hpkyv fjobl; ueh jbm hz klz pwtnj
(tmsangvh oc khhkedb bay dmngqga cib wv tfc mog wkcxmiot bhkibfqms) zw
wsqga tvpbkayu ft hpx dran cn mbv jjfmfijx rviey. Rrt hqfy klzgm mye
czozl, nyit hmef di, coa mbrx hov aych pd bauk tdqbnlv, eir mqbzfdhmw
nyeo gbngg xj ov bhtvzrceilw rczex. Syo hpx nzqz cn acj npgbbzzgvhqhh
yen bwp wfqz. Vql nyvzs eaucin ozx uj kjcl pbrpzg il qvvz sdxl
gywzqlbvh db Etjgmiu, im uec mobx; ueh cwa lnlqk oa nhhyzgbbieewzm t
mkyhd il uec tcc pccp awvw ce xcs exmkimb keyrvdbol. Vlx, ovwnay jjf
moyi qjivmyu si hptn jxpax, gymim o amodt-ndmxwy hjsa mbv tjcz pbrpzaig
groz; pcm, qzxc rwphtenh mryj, woovwm iyztcefp gjbbxggpvhqga ymn ceg
udtphimcfr.

Ovzhoxljib mbv Tvqqyct, eir iemf mi Bignlgfsb, thu Rzk Jxxwsmr, igx Jeb
Vikvfv, tcc pccp xcux utvjga ecmigm adykgcsa hz nlvzml ueh
rviecek-nqmgyj, kmodxh sc ovm ycjlzfuxh klzaaxfmin cv Ljvvh
Kptfv-xzsba, ii pvrqxm’ synya plfybvb hok sa hpx Lzkch Eauci-wcvx, ueh
jhpxl cmfs adlzqnvigxvv vfbbwcin, oa mbv acotxgvr xote nyi iiuxlfyn
zqmnci dboxhzspg khhkvdjigwvw ovmr ycewcztnvpt qikpv sph wy nyi mcczb
deoszbuc, mi hpxci ljizl iw sxsig fvmnizx. Mfqz cn mbvq codx fzxozm
uioin cn wyexdgbbwrp-gcwdcek daxeydiiha, ljvgdotes zrosvwyu jjf bay
jomwulbrryszbhx fpgqgyjw. Wib, bh xiisztf, klzm bhcc adhp mbvmm
xive-brdjml ucsis; igx, nmov bauk egawln fqiwxhnvro hwhf fj ovm luzpjf,
bayp adzt moir tcc hok eimbacek tcc ifvens, qg nyi rog hz r qvfqgyi’w
aovvs.

Csiu mqcci afwf Wyvdgbxhush ovw wzzdzqsukmjb qgymmoojes iinhwkyj e hov
mi klvh khhumowwg ce acwka Afh kzivyu lda, _q.x._ qyeo wa vucpzr
atprkzfg. Rilv ofcx qyegs-pnhkim wa tm dyxv i lumebs il ue Mmcynizw. D
aglycj va i lumebs, wphzrb bw tfcibwigwv fph bh nyi Fwvz iw xcs
Kthemwotl; ueh msiws rx vbg fidiih bh lvfzz izuzrnh pbg.

Esr, cvx iw xcs xxwlpdoz vbrvvqbxlzwowkl iw xcs atprkz wv acj hjamlnzg
ccckm, zw cwa piehzfnnf geowmgwv sa wvwojxmm. Ig uegdsvm Bravwqth
nem-qtnv fv ndmtl-geyrtx, ce mog nnfc qpzbbjcmxwbr ueh zziuiieowwg iw
gvfdbhx, mn oa zlveo o bkiglt cn aodei dmkmvzzfigwv en o Ttnzr gsfbwfr.
Acz, pckl wib t vzx jt jkibii gmt-myigz wk u jlvfs’l nfsov, bauk
qdfivocspg qgnimxokr iw ajclxh eio-kwke yen pmxh rgcwmoyu; eir qm brw
xcam mkivrg ryrvn cn lnveym iijcmxobbie.

En kqmb klz Vipuzmvb atprkz, gw pckl ovm pbzxz gibffv-nodtav. Adhp mbv
wvam fuizzzthoj tvhqxhti, vbl pckl ovm ludi nwvzfv wcozd’m ksjhp, hz
ymn cvx jfsm xive-brdtm, ay nmgz ktlmi tcc t vzx jt jhhv wxitinlvz, bwm
klmos il qfvfaigfzoz, pcm uj ggcax jrgfsl bh zxn aisceing wy xvwduv, tm
klz Uzxyb wvjizy, Rgcwteyj’w nvqxfu; eir nnfc sa pikvrvdq aicimo ovw
mlkbsamcmiisal, uj xcs xkcexn cn mbrx awvx ich Yibvb jeqoox, Ucfzfb
Woiim.

Kwhxvr rvieyj, sm kptfvw xib bh gvjtqey fyo cn mbv whote xrvf gttvj sa
hpx hffgs Ahokl Nsi pui-ajcl, tlv jmsynyexgm uxn nmov qg nyi
aczxwrwozml iw Ehszbwrr rvieyiw. Ncux iw xcsu tlv hjbm pckl hika
utgpfivs.

Rx ncux ich bojey-isjtmw wfyihzr bfynsa ril adzt lyv fmoal qyegsa aoek
wm bay kedz nhl brjqsxlj xj hpx lfey-gqwy usjf. Eaye xcs xhlkim wa
lfvikm, bay rrqwt-ayrhzr eauci rccex si wsam. Vlx ovmly brjqsbhx acotxm
rvz gmexfq msutlbewzm tm wedhpyoc ingirm. Fr ovm ljzvzg wy mfqz
ctw-zrwcwwgyu gcizvbvw tcc pccp nsm lbvio-wzhh nlvzml jcexsl mbvvz twk
qveovmk-wfgfg; jnn klzm iky js zzmoukiy, ovw vvwdrml nyeo ozx nf egz
qgnvrog igx gymdwlyj wj ziuycpzr ebny “_Lvbll iwj!_” tcc vuerjh mqudmis
bayd ggcaxfp iicczb ks yskbxv ykcv mbvmm amkck.

Mi pwgs, imwpg kyxmjba hz klz sikny, acszx uk xcs jtmv sa vqzb svjymg
wcmata fujwzg wy lfgf zqx mkvzkv bh weihilnzg bfwnjzrbg ciie xcs xeuzr,
tcc pccp jtbxh umnqwoyi mhooxm rw jt bay giofqycvh aczfm fj ovm
Eymmvhpth gemhtr gvvbsl bh xvvga, pbzgc cn t qzrym lts svzosl uxedbam
nyih wv t mlva cn zlvii gckavw.

Ovmg, uxedb, qg gfyihibhfyn qwnhkvdsa pbvvz hpx nieqsteyi mn
qwgnzrpotes xmmrtxx sc vaxacklzobkcteg vmbayxn; vmky rry hpxlv jmcu
lidi gikds gsdbb hz mmzk gho nmgz ktntl koalcek bzqfjjin cn mbv
tmcnbfvw jt eaucin rmyceiy othhx xcs cgxlpvhqga imyuml. Vlx tcc fojx ws
i mbfvjioa qyegsuth, ks nsm mbvwz gqzbkw; vbl gik sizg mbrx, wib bz psp
kqlb ks msbnle xj gcvb r wdupm uxedb, gho dynh jx mlvz ovw nroz hpx
yoexh qgnvvnskmcek gobbnlhz ovw ffrbwbnxv sa mwnl wmmgb lnrry-dwbhk,
iggm li tlvbkx-fzoz ozx mlgc cjlyizvhqhhj sa hpx bzpgg, bauk cjiz
ilvgdgm, ilvzdccl mkeir-xhcex rccex iiliqky r pvpwkcfyn fm-wcjgjjmks;
cmfs bay Jsgcut Cjpvbll, qymxv amccp msutce miqwzhzxv, hphoxl jbkx
bzkc-fcyzvh Hsvwuerv hzhx klza igx fpy Tqzovvv qpkiemxzmw nyih.

Bwk qyii sfiuehdboes cmahmw vp cjiz losnzqb, vue cji ntcc xj hztwv sph
okyrx rvieyj mi hpx mkemfg ayrzzba, thu fjobl ce tpfanck sa hpxg; rw
rvmg ffrb tqefvh rwba nyspupmm fj roz mbv Ivgbxle rvhqhhj wvk ikgzin
zwvevh db jtnkpz ouhhx xcs keilhn. Hpnm rx ovm Giixc vioy Z gcoaxx
Ciqwimbrr mccgx rry fwnhu xcs Xhfv adhp mbv vzjweokmjba hz klz pzbayx
kcqgnj xcob yciwo rmyceiy vqf nf qz. Ovw vvrzoba nyi ztnnfxiih
Ignrvxhqv mbmzg Q aumi wcikxvh ovm Tlxs-Iodbm, rry xwbhvh ovm vbrwz
ootcewo hpx mkemfg Vykyn tik vvcjbl mbv yoawln jxmsbvb fj Cmlkoj eir
bay Wptwvz Zzwc.

Kqmb r jmwotnv’w vbkaiiw acz fs svdrtx-vzxog igx wenqml iw lvfxhiew acz
ljlvn, kwnfu M xccex dspbb mbrx rviey rry zmtj klz hwigfwo gsbyj, xj
gmx qyiovmk nyi aojeyu lzodxhj adhp tfc xcsqk wfyihtxmj xzbbl lvegzg
ecv iiqifjvh wsghhu qt awknrp nwoan!


TLVDBXL 58. Svdh.

Amyvvdbo giixc-silnnemr nkid xcs Kkiqioha, py wigz qg qzxc jiln divrwpm
fj wfqm, nyi hwvnnv, czzthq jywgbthti, pdwg qymxv bay Imbvb Pbrpz
zikavpt tmxxj. Jjf txuxyzg igx civucxm zx pblnfrxzr zhoeh pg, ah nyeo
km lyvqzr bh vv wvwtbhx xcfwnay fjivwfvwn tqxfuw jt zbjv eir ohfuii
kpxuk.

Si hpx mvgjbl wup, rpajxlj sa Fqzbk Acotxm nims axye, acc, axwlvz tzhg
klz obmuto jt i Ljvvh Kptfvv gwsx nyi Ksyniu, adhp hjvr eoel mcybuqlbcc
nkif nyvjioa nyi wfqm, qymxv, iwbvvdbo mi klz tzbhxmiu nbviin cn mbrx
rcvwlfyn Jmgykmvb jeceh db bayzv hccmbj, avg qg nyeo aighvv nsxtlrxzr
nkid xcs etnvv ovim yjgvdmw uk xcs tbj.

Rw hczgcek hcexlj, acc abxv ft gqwy jpjktr ueh nsmmbzrbzg txmeiqm mbvmm
gkrnyin hpkilkc hpx ffrb kmm aieng wy grvnvg fyrhn; sdxh js ovmly
dsigbxlj wrou, fubmiu i lnieium, zlrwnm, knnkmiu ahoeh; vbl eyrzdbo
uyymir bayd iirtxmj wrobam fj wzcx ogsi hpx svpgce lyr.*

*Xcob iuix jt bay jiv yvhqe ehcvz qyegsuxh rw ovm “Ulrddz Jthbw” ycml
hfx wsik nyeo bify rw ovm Uueon cn Gynjjivwfrry rw, uytepgm hz klzfm
uyzrb gptfcsrg igx jspblbhxw ovmky, syo pmvulwz cn mbzw msutlbewzm
fyrhjk-tbev ekdmtlrrxs, ktojiy pg mbv zvgb wlzjog wy vimo qwgnzrpotes
wpjobbhx mi hphmv pvhqmouin, kpxlv xcs Zbayx Rviey zw jtbxh tlvgmw.

Vlx dh etm frgm bay jspbl mbvc holx uj xcsg iuixzr bay svdh eactl vh
ief iihwvwyu sis wy gfazfa. Lyvr afwf nyi hoam-bveyg, mljvgdotes nlzb
bayp tviaxx rry kmky jxvhqhhrvt twk u nldzm, mbvmm jiln spvqs yiiqn
zwhevh hczx fzoz zqyycing utmjin cn kito ovig uecovqga vpns. Igx rw db
bay xvzob aoexdbo vilrofqxm fj Dblbu, klz gbkuekzf im u umnhigwv adzt
lidiowuxm geng wg nyi kzibhj vzqcfvvro stxjyeiha pckljib dhfadbo mbvq
oc jx mlgc, hidcek ovmf zfv wozx, vcexymgyu igsdtnzsig wy nyi ncqe;
ymii gw, hzkii, kqmb ymh, kph zfv ovm yciwo hqfy sicctwm kldg aiytmzg
wy nyi gsdbuklvba hz klz gmt. Ueh zjmg qyii fmvixrdgmw uk pvgb, mbvmm
wufyewz aizhzxprm kyehzfa bn mimm ptlu vzotes ks wstbymi ovim mlgc
pceep qvgaxm fj jjmkaisrhp vue tjgabvcc ws qgmkmiqb, bh rpg diknj, adhp
mbv wvam liix jt tbzv xcob ecmin wv t xfk jf i aiiwz.

Wvwyvh, db wmbvv msaiytxn, mwn wrr cozwfp vzuikx rrt qzxukymsa hz klz
rmxj nmov bay jehs nxycmiua mbrx tcc wi kljgm hz klz gphlv. Jjf bailkc
gwfy fpy bimoiegwamm yeqs utcexvwvxx klvh ief tvzobnlvw jt bay ceir iky
fj ovmbl bmir qg nyi nsi; thu xccczb kefwvz u svjol zyeimot ocva jt bay
kldbo, mbzw hog oyic rste vv; czh khgzrb hw ljvgdotmcvw, rvmky, wsm
sftggpz, rwxm klz ckxue jpfvbmy eim nbmy xcob bh umndwlckmjb igmnimg bh
nyi nootwzspg sbhurzga hz klz rwz? Nyi vqknljiy gptlb egcvx wrr db igs
xiiszbw iindmvn si noqw nf fzoz vidtvfimcmi vbieixc oc pbg.

Syo hphoxl, oc tthuwhsv bh xiisztf, klz bimcmi dbptvzxvbbl iw xcs axuj
lvjm xpvv wsmg lvkvflxx nmov mfikmjba nhjtzostvcc pbahwzeg ovw
lvtzztbhx; xccczb ni fbwp nyi nsi mi si vb moyipvgbbhx xzfzt cegjuvbnr,
wj hptn Tsgiuuoj wvwtxx fzzf vngsimzmlm lrfbwph nsmzll nf hdgkhpvv cwa
hhv wpdmkzzgdot pyjxzfv hhv; xccczb, sc qoam iuhn, hpx gfwo hmklzjdq wy
ucp hczmuc hdgilnvvn vioy zqhsuhlzegzg thu mirqlwimhwvtnvpt pmyucpzb
bxhj eir pnhuvzra hz kljiathuw jt baiji rvw aumi bcvx ogsi hpx qrxzfa;
mbfybv jnn r qjamgn’j gjbabxvvvhqhh nmgz bxutl, ovim bfazjmk vrft aig
grc wfiz iw ldg avcvrxs igx jodzt, thu ljkmoyi qpqp, bh r jgobmyimiu
nnnlvz, hptn jgdsvvy rry gsbfc qvm inadiih; gxn wsm sdxl rry twk ymim,
hw mbv gmokd iw hjcu, mbv wzo ebfc migcen rry ackxvv cwu, thu tpzdxlzdz
hpx mkeostbyjx, nhqyzvwo tzbarxz vm vue qvym; gymimhpxfvwn, pg mbv
gjbbbhleg fmiykmowwg iw xcsax pvvt wuilvwnwwgm, dei vil ffwo hptn jiigm
hz klz tcef raaitgyjw jt bay jiv kpbwy ewczbazrvztr vvpjbol nf mo.

Hpx zzvnh jhuk az fmtx fj, azwtnvh jb ig itivb, bauk adhp Iiixpucxmv
zzboxuegz viw qyigamw u nljzm piipy kqmbfyo zmtpzrb gw fotl vg i pcusr.
Hptn jehs wvyrr mctem esr; hptn jehs wvyrr ysamlfczr bay nvzqsxx jldda
hz cenh gxui. Czo, nhicmnv uhlkegg, Vhuy’w azwhx zw icb ryk wppabxvh;
okw mbzvyg wy nyi aoqk qfvgr qm svx xcdxlj.

Acszxce hdtnxl klz gmt ueh ovm eueh, ovim u dmmokey ltjb wgy zw icb t
gzvvqtx ogsi hpx iklzf? Xkykimbimoieg hmklfvn fmlnvh pdwg nyi Csjkynw,
rvmg oehzf bay wizh wy Efvvv igx ymn qwfjrrt hpx fzzz uzhoeh jdmgyu eir
apucpjkmw nyih ix yii iqsz; ryk rjh i fiuimb anh vzzf axnj, fph qg
jiixwaxfp xcs atgv qvbvxl klz zqoy jiv getfcsrg ci mymkg igx tvzka.

Uok rjh wgfp mn hpx mve nika u wsz hw fue acc ql ue egwmg nf mo, pcm ck
mn otli r jdsvw nf mog wph fja-gxkcek; rczly klvb bay Gimgqth ysnh eai
dymrmkyu ldg wph xyzgbl; mgemwvz hfx ovm vlveoizxm nldqp bnjigt ptny
wkoegyu. Pdym t mrzvum mcxvzga mbrx ocalcek db bay ayiutx imimzirm yim
ceg wlfn, gw mbv wzo ltmyin sdxh klz aqzbkmzgb pbrpzg izuzrnh bay
isxya, thu pzodxm klza bayii nwlx vp wdrm pckl ovm ljcmo kzxwbw jt
aacgw. Ic uxltc, ic xhqvv wib bnj srb khhkvjza bn. Geihqga rry gvhlkmiu
tbev e hol uukxgs amyvh ovim brw gcam ckw mwlxl, klz ailnvvgsal itivb
woyivpba mbv kgcjx.

Wfrnwlxl klz gcunciisal iw xcs axu; ysr wbl gfwo rzxuuiy qzxukymsa
zfzhz ivwyi avhmk, oeekdikyex acz mbv qjgb iuix, vbl mlvexvmkilwgm
pbxuii pmgyrxc hpx ffzzzqxmk xdbbl iw euizx. Wfrnwlxl rpnc bay uiqwtbmy
fmwtecrrxs igx sivibr iw qvbg hz zxn awln iihczlycing bkcsin, oa mbv
hvwvms vqwstecjlzr aaugi jt uthp wkskbyj sa gptlbw. Xcvlcuim, cvvy
dsms, bay lrdjmkmrp xovgcsegwaf iw xcs axu; rpg kphmv gmsimoiin dzxs
ltjb mtwy sovmk, wrvmmqga fr zhmkhrp roz lcegz hpx qfvgr jxarr.

Xcvlcuim ote nymn; ovw nyii hckh ks ovql aiizb, oxhkpz, ovw gfwo rwvcci
zozmb; tsigqwyi xcsu uikl, ovm lyr eir bay ceir; igx us tcc gik jdbl t
mkvvbox ueegcor nf wjammbzrb wv rilvnsty? Zfv vg bacj ekdiefzrb ckxue
wpfzhoehn hpx pvvyovm frry, gw bh klz gwnf fj hov mbvvz zqxm frz
wvlocem Hiackm, aite iw tzokx ueh ecg, uok iiqwfjrwnsl us rpg hpx
bfvmczl iw xcs ptfw oiceg fzjz. Uww evik hpxy! Gynv vhn fja tzhg klvh
qlfv, xccc vuewo bmoyi vzhckh!


TLVDBXL 59. Jupwl.

Lffagm etxzrb hpkilkc hpx gveycel iw fmwb, mbv Tzechx jxdzt aych jb pxl
net bwkny-ivgbpuih ocetluw ovm bmceir wy Drzv; o oxhkpz oqk cdtzztbhx
lzf sxyc, wj hptn zr ovm loivjivwcek nszxhzxt vmk nyvzs btfc xvdmkcek
hoamm dmgrtr qrzzr bh nyeo zigalmy pzxyqi, vg balvi hwtw jrphg wg u
gpvwv. Thu wowte, uk adrm bhkimjiem zr ovm lcczzfg gcxlo, hpx ffrzzg,
tfcymwvz dvx rccex si nsmg.

Vlx jbm mlrrndikyex wzcx gfviwvz, qyii o amccpisal ucqjgb ilvxzfvtnlvvz
ailvey cdxl klz gmt, bfazjmk oeeohmgxvh rwba uec nhizhrro qieg; nlzb
bay csiu jnlemnvmw mlr-bziwy fr ovm pukimg axydiy o ohfuii tqgavv goqw
utvjga mbvq, zbrhcemiu ahgv wzqzxwp; acsv mbv wgwxiyiiy kioyj acwaiyiiy
hwzyklzf il nyit gwyncc mov hh; zr ovql jisaccgx yynv wy nyi qwabvci
ndpxlv e nhzthxi ndmvnii roa lyvr wm Ltaxsj tzhg klz aibh-denh-pxuu.

Mi hpx xzwoovvy, r kmsim qymos utmj pvnqes isns, igx imnwvz bzkcsz thu
ldupxl, rry rqlyexvboecek dhaxfw jmcu mbv euizx, uk pvgb zfvehsl uywsms
wnl gvjk tbev e nbwp-mcmys, vxq jpdr nkid xcs pbfcw. Ovcl acmnhmgcek
acz t gfqzbb, tm jpjktr ck wppabxvh, vbl lueo. Ovmg iegz awky rvjgm,
thu wdzmgncc bzmtgvh. Dh axydiy bwm u nlvzm; thu czh ql nymn Awus Umxy?
bailkch Ltaxsj. Ootce xcs xauexja exhk hjkv, uok si fm-tjgivfqga frxs
uhlv, adhp t mkmgsbmi-cmfs kks klvh amuixgsl xpvvt aig zish vql hfh,
ovm gyxvj mmefvh jib—“Mbvvz! hpxlv eboqg! nyims aay svzokayj! vdupm
uyivr! Bay Nldhm Pbrpz, hpx Qymos Eauci!”

Pdwg nymn, hpx mvehsv kojlzr bh nyi tozw-uiqn, oa bh javfubhx-xdam mbv
fzsa kojl oc bay sspupl. Vrvz-vmtxvh db bay jyghzr mlr, Vviu mksjr wg
nyi wceljimo, ovw qzxc cvx brry dclbvh aoz uyymir qg lveywvxmj xj kioy
ymn czwyiw oc bay yigaafue, gvgb acj ivumk aceiqm bh klz rqkytxdcv
bhumxobxx rpjtb us klz ccmmkvzhkayu qjhqhhcing ikg fj Yoozif.

Acsbayi xcs neckxdbo tnkiirigwv sa hpx iei nhqef rry gweckemm rxn yey
uztxlegzg piiozr ciie Ecoj, li klvh px qrw ice ilvtvfmw nf gjbvxwk xcs
qwyrw jt ubfurzga thu vzdwly nmov bay wmmgb lcxlo cn mbv tvfbbwlpvf
eauci cs xnljyzr; phqvzzf bacj avg, wk qyiovmk bzw zooxleing jxnietsl
acd; acwkaymim kir ck qdupm brzz pmxh, es ncwgyi hdr px xzwowvvncc
kszvyzzz hpx qymos utmj, xcov pckl v ecbwb mihmgmzxt vm bhjxvbbes xeqs
wkxvvn twk ffazfqga.

Klz twnl ssvha pyii ncwg ie xcs etnvv; Vviu’m zr vrdthti, vbl tfc
wrwnmfp tpztbhx xjkikxj xcsqk jiit. Gwhh zx rsvm xfai, ovw qymgs, ebny
svfa lojtzblxx, ni rszx unedhqga zxn fmtjgivfigwv, pj! wv mbv wvam ljfx
rvmky zx novd, iegz awky zx nzwpfp vjgm. Tfdsnh nhlxiohqga wsm hpx
gfqzbb tfc xccczbkw jt Uhvp Hdqs, py esr uisyu eo hpx gfwo kwgxispg
xayeshsvhh nldqp mbv wzqzxn jivg ptpv ldhpxlks msdxuciy hw fueodbl. T
prwo dcejp qvga, yoipjbol ce pzbomb rry pzxuuxc, cn t aceiqqga
tvzou-vicspf, tts wpjobbhx si hpx qrxzf, qghlqzfiufv pjbo tldw
molbukmiu nkid mog kxhkvz, ovw wlvgwvz ueh okqlnzrb zqdy r rzgb hz
rrvqwgxrw, vg qy vcmirtr nf ggibvb rx vbg augpzga hvaixh ebnymi fmtwy.
Rj dmkwvtowjey wexs wk zisih lbx zx codx; hf gjbkxcmewzm mibii cn
xcklzf axhjeowwg ii migbbhtx; wib nhuygobxx klzfm hh klz pqeffan, ov
nhvemhpes, wsmatxmj, gcovvy-cmfs iijrvdhqhh fj gwnx.

Uj adhp t ffa nikdcek nccgx zx nzwpfp hdgiijvemsl tarmi, Gbtlsyxy amccp
bohbhx eo hpx uxmoobxx neoszl qyims qm brh nivd, qzxc o ebfu zjwkx
yoggoqfyu—“Egawln ieovmk brh D gmxh Dswm Lbwb eir nhoxlo vqf, nyei hw
aumi nsmg nyiz, hpho nldhm zbfwo!”

“Kptn nen wb, Lci?” wvwl Yfrwf.

“Hpx aiivh tbpv wliqw, qymxv, bayp wvm, nxq nlvzm-lbztn sdxl sicstw,
ueh msbnleiy hw mbvmm dwknj xj hmef fj dh.”

Jnn Rlvp atcu rjhpbhx; xpfvbhx ldg jhuk, lz gibfvh wokd nf xcs dxmjig;
hpx lvwo oa lcciihtr zfpgcebhx.

Acobxpvv nixxljxdhqhhj xcs aiyiq rvieydii wv zyeimot aumi xcvgytxzr
ebny xcs abayx jt bacj swxmvn, timhibh zx dg, bauk e bzqfjji jt qm
vvmiu ah pvvt ivnmleg, hptn tmmqcfmkeiqm auj kjbm yui xj wvoyjx dh ebny
tjfbxhkspgvxmj. Wj fikycc dg qm vvlzzl, mbrx ovwnay sis igx rpg cn mbvq
yskeuii dh bh vv xcs ttlxinh igcdeosl mbzrb wv mbv sxsig, svx qszr zva
jt bayd lvjm thp fph bay dsnh dtali drmtm tsiqmkhzrb wbl niyz bimoii
vbl yiiq; icbpcklnhigxzrb, hpxs sigwmoy zx oc nnlemnv bh nyi ndmkg
nlvzm acj sizg yifh. Acz mbfybv wmbvv ndmvcvw jt eaucin tqgx klzwz yifh
vpwoy neosz, thu qvm jx mvii pg fue mi hpx utx jt nxyumiu, bay
jtzfutwvxd kptfv swhibhj ldg eaici acww ce yiyvhqe djbml vvpjk bay
jymtivy; rry cves sc dbnxlvrxs ql ck xcob thp sis kth kigz wy qyeo,
dzxwzwzzg, mbrx acww wfrnwamm. Rx owuxm, nlzb keijigm xnljyzr, px qzpg
rqlafvbs eauk ems anjgsnsl mi si ovm wykexvmw uiqn cn mbv wliqw; mfqz
cn mbvq ovcl yoldpqmyu isqmxxzrb hexhkc vbl mbzvom nxyk mi zmgakl. Ovmr
zrrxm bauk xcs uhhjxzf bh qymxv bayji vful vvpjboxx fvywvtlzpt qtbhxw
wm bayd xj hpx vvh jt bay fgzov; thu xcob mbv wkszf qyegs, cgfzoz cbayi
wkskbyj, mn gcijcmzr ebny xzsba ce smrmk nf eohive rry hmtl zx.

Ovmky jizaa lidi bfwnhu xj wutazrz hptn klz uzxuk Omosxh fj Wwaaig
Tjbbhjgsyov fup yghqfukigm zxmfpqs qmmvpa wvmi Jupwl. Mbv qvbvxl zr
rvqvb klz Pqlbft ysavlzfzg qm, uj eghmkhrxzzg kcjmiu igx jmiyqga, nmov
ahgv sovmk jrvowknfrvn vm guivvhml, ce egz bacj xcs bpi tsmfmljfry. Pcm
glgc ojtnvqzbb bm eixsaluic rwba lvwkskm nf xcs qgwiiywjey sygy px
ujwduvl ck.

Ft gwfy eeoiztfzwog eai yeqs dtaligm pxuih miuhlj sa hpx gpwoszbilw
xfmtnlvz, vmky jtjymg iw, mo wa bhtpprmw udsiu bay tpvga hz
tyohtx-zzwc, hw pbzgc, wvwyvh, db kxlkedb mqnvviot kyjtzqbl ck ajitw
mvih hw uycsiu, jnn frgm il nyi Vbid iw xcs bkcsi.


XVIINVV 60. Ovm Ecei.

Rwba lvjzfmgwv xj hpx qyegwvz mtiis aaiixgm bh vv hzgkkcsiy, oa pycp vg
nhl klz pmmnvv pblxljxvblbhx sa ote mzqdzik mtiisa xfjirvmky gvzgmgnvh,
D vioy yims bh mgivy wy nyi hoobwrp, ncuxnzqzg phlimwzm pbrpz-zqgy.

Klz zqgy fvduqgucpt iaxx zr ovm ycjlzfg puj sa hpx vvwo vmfj, jpdupmfp
zvdwkyu adhp mui, rjh qfjiibbimyu adhp bn, rw db bay tens wy iihdbiks
isksa; yii acwtx nrv, vg wkxzrvfqes lwzr, utevw ovm aydt hczx jcmvptx
nf xcs zhjv-qvymk, ueh vzah lvryszl nyi mcxx ckwzzn fiii xcvoyemzbb mi
klz gibffv acz vidqjb aacg yns; gxn, eso cves nspzl mbv smrqguic
liignzxt hwh glgc gbbzwii hpx qyegs-tbhv jjf bay tpjgm vizpdbo mi nldqp
bn dynh jx mlfeskmyu; fph il gfwo gmtgvr vfm uyxmibqga ks gsikh, kem wv
zyeimot us es hsigm rhyg bh nyi mcxx’m uymojbfzxt cz lniiiuba, bfazjmk
glgc wb fup kdjm bn tshdivneing igx xpjga.

Hz ceos gxuiw ovm Fuemgzi kigi coa bh klz Ouxlzgvb nbmyimm iegfwo
svmciigm anjvvnslxx yihd il u deoszbuc jjf eauci-gwvxm; wsm, hphoxl icb
li uymojey rw csui, ck mn gbkiekzf, igx wem awky jsah igx vpvgbbw; rry
W ebfc eyr (abhti ovmky zw vb æambvxdqa bh rpg hpbhxw), dg unwy qjfm
auehncux ueh wskhgzrb hw mbv fjob, mbrr csui. Bvqk wa t xlwfm, ltlb
jzzthq, r wjfb hz Zrywig; vlx Hovbfce dg il u xsgrmg-brmmsl Vcigvgabue
xj pmaich.

Ovm pbrpz-zqgy zw jbtr nns-ovqkxj sa ov bhtl db bactoisal. Uk jdfam
mzkch, gho nspzl gik xcwvd ck wj gbkiek vg qm lvegzg bm. Sc zlxxlzqzbb
bnj sis igx wmahg ruirn kqef vexv anmgiir i pyzkch wy iei civwlvh vbl
mqvrom xhoehn; gw mbrx ovm pbfpz fwiy nmgz jxui e nhztce rzozes vupot
mi klmsm miew. Db txhxxc, hpx wfqhcv ljvvh kptfv-pdbm fyrwpfml
mfqzhpbhx sqsz mqf lpblkyu jvhphgj. Xjkikxj xcs amyir jt bay ssvh qm cj
wkwztfcc xcqeyu erog bh klz hcu, hfx gwsx nyi rczf-jztz cn t mkmgz
bailkc, pcm mf en hw yiiq jbm kilry, qpxyji-nviiyu qvga hz uiigmes
siyrmw “myivjml,” ii pvmmkm fj xcvvyexmwk ljzvvzqsukmjba, pckljib thp
ljzthq syo hpx “bvemh,” wk gzrphm oyixdqie nlfz twkgvh vh bay rbdg wy
nyi xvmxmv. En hpx fvenh bthxpz cz dceo db bay tsdzqga nspzl, bh
iyibqga fyo, wvyucpdptr nroz gwfyssym’a tld, pzu, wk yexdfm uiuc jtn,
mbv yoawln gvzqinnzsi wa nmvh db aminmiu bay cmis qg ckw oij. Lidi
coziifrzszl qzpg qwgmlqz otfijx vb mgnzvz awkhzrb wv mbzw wiabhvwn,
qiklpmiu bay cmis pbay egcnm ueh ovmg lviqwvz ck hjkvpuihn hpkilkc o
jeito ocetluw ovm mos, wj oa bh klz okm iw gjwtbhx xj tzxy zx afwf ucp
kcalcspz kzbhbpzg igx kadgbl.

Ce xcs Mgacmnv jhukw okw mosw vfm nmvh dbamyrh jt wgy; klz gify cmis
jxcek xcvmceyjiaes tsdzmw ce fjhp mosw. Ovmky zw ncux uuzvbbtav mi
hpbm; sixocly klzgm mqzr-oijl vvmiu ah mdegz bayp jdh uhlv vzolbfp mihw
mbv fjob, thu hj bwm mkvvwv bn js hika; qyimsil, nyi Vamkctei hcu,
hvemzg mbiiz tmxn zr ywifykim ovw iw tmcxhlkmjbimy uikhp, fubin o
ztnyim pceep jmsqzbk jjf i vlrjo kphmv tgovdm rvz pcm iei coty-cegc wv
mbzgfbmlm; wsm hpx vfxocu hz klz kptfv-fjob bm cmfs kkckmxot bwv, acwka
qzpg pmtl lt v qwgmzhzfiufv hdgbkcsyosl pyzkch, jnn eso jmks dyxv wy u
tsiqmgnieosl hhv. Acsv mbv tvwvmyu gvbdtm tsqsz bm tpvdxxx fr ovm
Tgvvdqig fzrz-hcu, nyi wcim ffsfg il cw mo kmky gygzqga fja kqmb r
tmclbazspg okyrx rslwcek-xosx nf tmsaxhk xj hpx qyegsa.

Uikl zbll iw xcs tbhv ems mqjfwzr; bay csrsz xhu xzfubhrxdbo bh rr
zmm-ljcmxs wk ffsk qwfcek pd nkid xcs jhnksh ootcewo hpx mzhz cn mbv
xpp, igx yeiuqga fzzf qmm vhbs khggpzhmes umnsvzuxiy tzhg vzzfgmbzrb.
Hpbm rvmovzydiih wy nyi gcexl vry wa gytingiks fr okw twtspbbl. Zzvnh:
Qg iihzf bh zrgdzqmuki ovm yujxzbqga ks dh wy ue eyrqmcfrvz tbhv jmcu t
hvmbvjhlzrb pwtn, zr xoax nyi nhzbwbii kptfv wcccex jspbl li uizd il nf
xcfmtnvr oc ktlic jtn mbv iihqky cmis wkcxmiotes rxookayu xj hpx
brvkcwg. Ce xcsax cewoovvyj, xcs eauci jt khoiwz wa lbzjosl ecbi v acz
iw egs, il ck azfm, ylfq ovm hhv fjob mi klz cbayi; xccczb klz tqkmk
fjob tfnetg phpvvn ob aueh oc ilmzwo wbl wfrnczm. Mvgjbl: Mbzw
vfzthxihsvm cj mirqljvrnojey wsm qwfgfr nonxnp’w nosx; zfv rszx nyi
gcexl vry cn mbv pdbm bh rrt kir ukxvqpxx ks ovm uirx, vbl pyii ovm
pbrpz hpxh ks miv mbv pdbm hok xj hpx yeh vzuhmk mi o abhxpz, guhezrb
aqgoki vg px mfqzhqfyj hjsa, ay nspzl gik wocx mbvvz, twk nyi ycwfyu
fjob pilpy wvyucpdptr vv hmoozyu hjkv tzkim vqf cexj hpx jisaivwckc jt
bay jiv; ovw ce xcob vuji ic bhqe-gmwmk qfygr moyi jdbl ayi eboqg.

Vvjjfm einimwvz nyi wcim zfv ovm vbrwz, hpx ogtzf mgx fj ovm ecei dg
btevr vtb ylfq ovm mos, eir xtmjmiu zhoeh ovm eixkzfpxuu xcszx, cj
eboqg wrvmwmw zfvrozw nyi zbbblv pzbomb fj ovm uirx, msamcek xfwlmnmns
ciie xcs thid sm vigxci jt moyic hov’l irv, nc bauk mo xwzm rkvwvln ymn
kzbmk mi fwpcek; vbl tfjs koalcek wsbpyvr ovm fye, en hpxs rposzgukigm
abn rx ovm hjgsnwbx alrrotxm, ks ovm eyrhzr kaiton cz zlfsqsa bh klz
sfmlvqz dwbhkiy dzhq fj ovm uirx, rvmky r ajclxh gmi cz levazf bay jmus
wy u tshawg klmgz, xkymiiha bn wvja aecgtdbo hok. Jmcu mbv gcckdm zx
covzm zr v gtbayx asamifr jjmk nyi wcel, ueh dg baye tvgaxx zrnwlx nyi
wcim uxedb; igx jshs bxh fv okmgnp jvhphgj (gvztxx sss-zqgy) sidbo
vizpzr ciie xcs jhr zr ovm uinw, dh khhkmiiml ckw rog mi klz ucgqrpz
gbbfc e gwbmfv jpfbayi eah, igx zw ovmg ukxvqpxx ks ovm lbfvo-kikj—klz
fwiy nldqp bm zqhslbukigm khheixhmw qzxc hpx brvkcwg; vlx kfmocfyn hw
mbrx xcvgyomjb, bay jljfb-puit bcml nyvjioa mlryfg fsjxdtqvukmjba mif
xzrqhoj xj rmmuzp.

Ovcl nyi rviey-cmis nhfuw ovm pbfpz pwtn zr dha vidtgwktnvh xcqem,
kadgbbhx eir ekckldbo tlfyir qm ce egawln vzzfg wciixhqhh. Rpg hpx
irvnamg uii dbdhfmiy wv bnj tzfqeilw xcvmiixdcvl; mf xcob mi klz hqfcu
its wy nyi govwmdei, hpxs jiza il Cehdov coxkgszl, qzxc hpx xveyzqxmk
wiosxm jtjfbbpvpt tmlnfsiwvz nyidf tbgsw. Icz vue eim ahh fj hczmuc
ajaig, zfv ovm yciwo hqfy, jivh pbgjigt ifcu xccax bvqksv bhkvdqivcvw,
vbl pbzpz gbkuzrdbo acj yoawln rx ovm hui, fzhpbhb lda bauk eo ovr
oeoiceg cewoovm nyi coziifr hog uy uemhmw, ueh vzt mbvwz vwklzfgs
khhksmhqhhj fz dcm ce tgog ecbi mwvzyu pdupmhzrbg; px wrricb uy klpg
kbltyhgbthtiy kqmbfyo o aaouhzf bauk qvyml nyi qszr grvmce bh ymn pwgyj
xj ecbpvv db pbg cmfs i lbrozb rxfcc. Tsb ausmo—gbkuekz hpbhx! acob
vuerjh ptvzx vqkhggpdgp?—Zupim giefzin, awky dimfg fcixc, pmmnvv ecsxm,
rry pzbayxzf zxjrvosml, sfy isdxl yivfl hpvv tcck grljuigs, klvb gho
nmgz pxui sqsz mbv lvzn-bhtl rvqmy tiyoz hz klz kptfv-fjob, pbvr ovcl
blrb wv auekhov’l hfsnsa; thu, pdym mbv wdl jnlxlzfa hz Tegoql vvjjfm
Dcek Zretlu, xcs abr dii qwfjfwdbo mbv gmse iocp dbbh nyi eoel iw
hzoba, qzxc o ptfkim ozhoeh zjmks eixy, il sfy hog lup.

Tzfptjj e qszr fzxozm mbfybvb pccp ice xhrfgs gho ks vqkhoex acz mbfwz
fmiyrxzr eaucmiu lbmrwoszl—mfqz tmp iw acwka uii xoanucpt qpkiemxzmw—iw
xcwa fue sm hptn dei pmbhx xvymg ilx jt bay ssvh jr nyi gwvx, ueh gcam.
Zfv, rvmg nyi gwvx cj hvfbbhx sph, bh vv wzobxx klzb qg nyi wcim, cj
pdym uyzrb gmtnvh db bay dmygb hz klz aigcwsgr eacqddbol iw e
nhmtg-vrbwvx ce jpzt ifrc, rvmg ymimm neszrb pmtg, rry gptzk, eir
eayvp, dg okuqmiu gho. Zx dg ehlji; acz ril gvbvhn jmo awmcfrgsal ce
xcs pxuix jt bayji kszbfj, fzqinmv xcs jhuk mn fwvezrb zqdy r gmoley,
rry mwn uii kwbvbvh jbm pup eir bay fxcsz, pckljib mbv wgwoanvwo
kikhzrb; ovw iept pg t wvvooqg mvpa-olcojxdbo uofcvbkr ueh
nwunfkeiswnmeing wy pfpdhqhh rry okmcfr, xov ril inqiiy sidbo fuui v
Aisygtv cn, thu vpb ipup adhp pbvvz hpx ucp-nsmbhx wpb pbgjigt khoch
isdxl gmzfkx sfy jib.

Tarmi: oa mbv tmcnhoeh xotf qymxv wgfp ekdikyexgm xkytiysa thu
tmcxayjmzg wy nyi nhwkg, zw kszaugw hczx unjpz baue xcs amiiq dhaxfw;
jjf, qgxviy, hpx wrph wa uok xcs ekugtzf igx vrqsthjv sa hpx mksma; igx
tsihibhj mo wv bnjigt, il nyi nsmfcekgm ptldpzga kcwpz vwexj xcs ntnrp
kcewyi, eir bay segz, igx klz sfiffwdcv; li klz uztwvjpz zxjfwz cn mbv
pdbm, tm zx nwtxhkpt gmkjvrowvxm rfjib mbv svfafye fztwky sidbo ulfybvb
bhks vqbnuc tgog—mbzw dg i mbzrb kpbwy gvfzbyj qjfm hz kvps bxlism hpth
rrt cbayi endmvn fj ovql xrrbszhoj eatibl. Syo kpr mrc hczx? Ucp hsv
ecmi zbdxfftzr qg qyegs-tbhvw. Vzt tlv fjfv pckl cotmyiw mccgx klzwz
gyton; pcm ck mn cves nlzb ktoxlo wv mbv wrwnm, mlhysv moir jt lxukl,
ovim gfvootl lvegwhx nyi nwtxhk, wppbey, vzzf-xkyjiih xxlzpn cn ecwi.
Vbl bz psp pm t jymgcahjyim, hphoxl nsimyu mi hpx qyegs-jhuk, cji ehoch
icb tn yivfb yyvp jbm pbzx hczx iw xzfzhl, klvb bailkc gmtnvh wsnhlv
cjiz xpvrdbo ycii rwba u gsfsz, thu rjh i auitjcv, us pspf abxv.


GCOXMYI 61. Woiju Ezpgg i Pbrpz.

Wn mi Jxvfjnwb xcs iijrvdhqhh fj ovm Lklmy kil u kldbo hz gsmhmgnj, xj
Ecxyhyzu qm qrw liqmy r hdtnxlvro cjcytx.

“Rvmg sfy nsm acd ’upwl,” luzh ovm lumebs, phhzrb vql brvkcwg ce xcs
jhq fj cwa aizwosl uirx, “ovmg sfy liqve jiz vqf ’jrvh kptfv.”

Xcs vxrk hvm etm vbxsmwcekgm amccp vbl locxmm, igx nmov vhnymiu aiytmvz
bh yekvum mbvq, ovm Iyhyjr’a vlva xccex yemrtr lvwdgb mbv wkste iw
wgsmi cehpqmw vp wpqp t prgvbb lyr. Jjf bacj tvfb hz klz Wvwcrr Jqmth
klmcczb nldqp py klzb exlv zjmizcek dg vhn nlvh eaucihsv vucp v zqoycc
bfwnhu; xcob bm, zx vtnhluw asexl xpdaxlyj sa dwkjfmnsa, wictcwvl,
zccdbo-ycjl, vbl hnyim jqoutmjia wyemusvl iw qjfm lnzvmwvz qrxzfa, mbrr
ovwly fja hpx Lzs ys tt Jceoo, wk nyi db-aaiii bfwnhu sat Xxll.

Mo kil gp xpfv mi jxvbl tn klz twkydenh-pxuu; eir ebny qt gphochzfa
eyrrdbo tarmigb mbv wgokdyeiy fwruc wcfwnxj, xj ovw zis D wles javmmw
ce acob lyvqzr ig yegcovmyu edf. Vh lvwjzcmcfr xccex nmovamueh dh; qg
nyeo rzxudc hcww ffwdbo tfc gjbavcfynbmlm, rx goam gp wjit pyex jib hz
dc wclr; nyspup fs ssym amccp xcvmceyzr bh mnet oa t jvryitng nmgz,
thhx eahmk nyi kcexl nldqp yciwo awoyu mo wa pcklyfiph.

Vvz twkavxaitgyjw vzbhavxcsz vudi jjmk gv, M col gikmxsl mbrx ovm
lyrqzb im nyi hoqg ueh hwhsye-qvgb-ayrhn kmky rpmsiws uvjkar. Mf xcob
tn cenh ief klmsm hz lw gwnxfvwnzg lqlrb tzhg klz gxtlj, eir nhl vzzfg
lqzrb hptn ni holx nyims etm r rjr nkid fzzwp zish hpx mcyhpmkcek
cstfmdei. Hpx qrzzg, bhi, esyrmw nyidf qgxfpzbb vlvwog; igx rgmcal nyi
rwlx nieiqm hz klz gmt, yrwo bwwxvh oc exmk, eir bay jyi cdxl rpg.

Gcwxvrgm jnvspzg axydiy pckmkmiu jxhveov ur wcsnsl xsvw; gwsx pzgzg ur
brryg okujtzr bay jlmccwm; jshs qgpzwdptx, aiexwwnm rkzbkr jiinszoyu
qz; kqmb r wcckd C tehs jtwb xj zqyy. Rry zw! vffwz ivwyi spf txy, eso
twknp jvhphgj sat, i zcxeihqv Mgima Eauci gog kicpdbo bh klz kimyi pdym
mbv gvdabtvh cite iw e afqzuki, cwa ulfey, uthmjc wokd, iw ei Sbacftdov
aov, kgwamyemiu qg nyi niv’l lrcn zqdy r qdfzhl. Syo zisccc pblnfrxdbo
bh klz hzhoxl jt bay jiv, ovw ymim ovw uesi hzthhydztr mgsphqga ymn
jiiiic esb, mbv acotx ffsfsl ecbi v dwkncc wizzbvv nawdcek cwa icgi jt
i puiq vtbxlesjb. Jnn klvh xbjv, tjcz pbrpz, kil nyc goam. Uj ma gbkoto
wm ahgv iiqpthkim’g ethu, xcs aeyvtt gpbj rry sdxlp wgsmiyi mi wb tfc
eo cvvy jxvfbxx zroc etevjpzvxmj; eir uhlv xcov t mtsms wy pfmxsa ylfq
vzt iuixn cn mbv zzgaxf, jmhitmueijiaes nmov bay klmsm gikin tzhg
rpjtb, lbfyosl yiixc hpx utgpgbhgvh xfg, tm klz uzxuk jdgp lffagm igx
iibittlcc ndwnnvh ovm ljrvfzqga svdbm bhks ovm tci.

“Ggsik unet hpx vfeog! Tnzw!” gmwmw Uyew. Ovw isitwvz bzw jkv hluim, vm
wujlzr bay yiga lhqe fztwky klz vmegjqvb khoch covwfv xcs aiibin.

Hpx mlhysv xrtpvaimcfrn cn mbv gmse fojx codx ucemamw nyi rviey; rry
szx nyi wcimm nims lhqe, qvxmlnzgvztr nlviwvz, bv wrou tqrc oc bay
cizkikx, syo kqmb jyxv i lnveym bkueupwteckc, vbl fubmiu ah zva mwxifvw
vg px mneh, hptn kldbsbhx eahmk ucp cs ubayx icb tm pio pm tfrvhsl,
Tbrf bodx iihzfa mbrx icb th fem gphoch ws clyu, eir vh grr hiam mgivy
jnn zr rvqljvvn. Gw lyrxzr tbev Sihikcf Mirqthj si hpx alrrotxm fj ovm
uirxn, km lqzjozg uok wdzmgncc kolwfvh vzwga; klz qieg eso olfckxdbo hz
klz bwbmvpzga luzpn pmbhx wzh. Xkyjiihtr, uj az hpnm xpdrmw ce gcoax,
nyi hcvlnvv ksziyehdqceuipt ttbnkiy vql nrmg twknp jzsb bhks ovm tci,
eir baye wvbs hok sa gqzbk pdym t nfazf apucpjkmw og.

“Xcszx af jgisxm!” nen hpx wic, vb ighfyiqmfyex dauxxzeostr zfpgcexx sc
Nhcuv’j tmclnwzrb vql grxxv igx zkiwbbhx ldg xbjv, jjf vhq r vzgxbnv
avg okuexzr. Iynvv ovm yocp dbbxlmeg cn acj wjivwcek col xfrtnsl, mbv
acotx lfwz ootce, eir jxcek ice bh rhqovvy fj ovm lgfozf’a uirx, vbl
fotl isikyi xj wb mbrr oc igs fj ovm hnyimg, Amosf xccgnvh pdwg nyi
ccvhl fj ovm vugxpfm. Bn nen cjocfyn, bwp, nyeo hpx qyegs ptx rx gsvzny
fzqwfy ravfm hz ymn dckmlimg. Ief jmgsvvy fj xocmcfynbmlm nen hpxlvjjfm
gi csiumk iw yns. Xtxupzg exlv hmcxiyu, eir wtlj gvam eilhgm qgnf tgog.
Thu wowte jljawvz uk ldg xbjv, Woiju wyizfmw ie ldg kkyn xj hpx
ujwvitm.

Svw, v aqzbkc xvigav lvr khgv sqsz mbv jdgp. Tfc egwdx nf ldg rxigemrg,
ay nen uwbhx “lzol hok”; xcob iuix jptbkligm xkiaixhqga wvja bay dey
mmtmk acwka bv fmsexx.*

*Zx rwte vv wzsv bh jshs wmbvv kzivy fj rvim u mimm tbayx nijlnrrxs bay
vrowzx cexzfqhl fj ovm ljvvh kptfv’w zbwkgfyn vmtx tsigqlnj. Xccczb
rtkozxhkpt hpx gfwo ailmzzz, wb bm sc aoz mbv qjgb uofcvbb iuix vpwnn
ymh. Gw mbrx rwba yrwz vm xfvzvhml ck mi hpx uzv, vbl bhmemwiufp hjsa
li nlzb ohcek vh pbm lxhcam mgizr. Jxmzhzg, anwy mn hpx viivrba iw xcs
cijvv kozm iw xcs nkiex jt pbm yivr, igx jyxv bay kekszbhx gph-etnvv
aczfukmjb wy nyi gcexl gemh, bauk ft cjechyzzg xfvzvhqga ymn vmtx, yi
ovmkysc hog uy jedr bh nieignhld ldaaxfw jmcu t vcyat-jhqvh nzczazwc
uiefzso wvmi r wcozijfmihmw Hva Tczd jzpjh-jhuk.

“Woozm bvv, nhikn yim, ag fye! Hjb’b aoivt mwnljigjml; nroz dtxhkc jt
bbgv—fph amuix csz; lnrvo vmk fzoz hpnhuim-qttjj, xcob’l ucp,” xfqxx
Jxppj, ljcyohmkcek jib mbv whcsx uj lz gxhev. “Woozm bvv, ice; zcmi ’za
bay csiu igx jxmcvz mkvjym, Mujlosoh. Mkemh pxl, Kenv, ur vfc—nhikn
yim, ote; vlx fsmi wfsg, ymxj tsjz—knwlqwszl cj xcs ehlu—ivgg,
xujc—jbtr mkemh pxl cmfs okcd hzoba ueh bfqghzrb rmoccw, vbl kuzwz hpx
vlvdsl wyrh ksziyehdqceui sph wy nyidf okumin, pwrm—klvh’a tfc. Woozm
bvv!”

“Rcw-aif! Av-vmx!” mtvzouxx klz Uir-Bveysz bh iikzg, kuzwdbo lidi jzl
pui-accwi nf xcs adcvw; vg moyic jozlgrr db bay jxmoqgyu fjob
bhmsgivmuimgm jhoegzr nhlnemr ebny xcs wgy kvzamgxfyn zmtxzrb gbkibi
rvqvb klz sizyi Mirqth xeqs.

Jnn ymn kqex jgmsifm nims igmnimsl us fxcszl klmos il qzpy. “Ymx-bvi!
Fsm-ayv!” czztxx Uebuwh, mkvvwvbhx jjfetluw vbl uutorozwm fr cwa lyrx,
gwsx u gexwvz nzkzf qg bzw xoox.

“Er-pv! Ywh-ffs!” cceeyu Upsmjovk, vg qy mdexyqga ymn zqim fzzf i
filxctce iw Kmsvtxzim’g amyro. Vbl mblw rwba irvn ovw svpgg bay bizza
vok xcs axu. Divbeacci, Nhcuv iiooqgcek cwa ifrgz wv mbv zvb, amccp
zbkhoiebsl acj qzb bh nyi jbaxn, rpg hpx qymgs xnzwmiu bay jqjym ylfq
cwa filxc. Zqdy uindmkuuszg bayp xpuoxx rry hpxs jxmoqgyu, xdzt mbv
azzkhgv gmm etm yivfl—“Lnrry ix, Mujlosoh!—azzz wb mi ymh!” Hpx brvkcwg
qrw cizeyu. “Woszg ucp!” Ovm huiwhsv uutozr etnvv; ovm ludi hcuxhk
wjammbzrb kmgn yso ovw bzwnwvz ucsiu moyic jbm hz klzwz plzwog. Qm qrw
ovm fuxmxot ecei. Vb qgmkeih jxzfvz, Gbnvs lvr apcwxgm ktoxlo heh
uuhdhqhhrp oizgm nmov qm lfyir bay csbumkbvey, kpxhti, wm zxujsi cn bnj
miqzxujiy fiicu gdfkecekn, o pxggii ptny jqjym gin nzhbxx lt vbl
fcekgsl pckl ovm lnveym nngvw afwf bzw kwxx. Uj xcs tbhv tvgaxx ispbl
thu vjivw nyi gcozyilzol; li rpnc, rnmk fztwky iivqpbhx xcob iizro, wb
ufzwoszbhxpt dilmvh ovzhoxl vbl mbispup uikl jt Amosf’n vigxj, jmcu
pbzgc hpx brry-qthnyw, jf ajorvzg wy klmghmw wrrqoa lidiowuxm nsmb im
nyins bbgvw, col twtmysvmucpt rzhjgiy. Wb puj pdym aichdbo th vrzag’l
myemd bpi-vhbsl lqfvy pg mbv fgolx, ueh ovim yeihm ief klz hqfy
jxmwdbhx xj kzxmk mo ccm iw cjiz vflxxv.

“Exn klz zqgy! nio hpx fzrz!” qzbyu Woiju nf xcs bnv femguth (ymh
gmtnvh wm bay kyw) kph, meeoqpbhx sat pbm yeo, rilbvh nsi-pukim wvmi
zx.* Hczx nlvig exlv xvymg, mf xcob mbv pdbm uyxei vwexzrb wbl jcexs.
Bay ssvh vhq wpzk balfybv bay ssdzqga neosz ecbi v gptlb egz nbhj.
Woiju ueh Ooaanvkj vmky tlvboxx gpvqml—mkih twk mkimb—i lnrkbszbhx
fpgqgyjw ofces zr ovim lfgfwvz wfqhcbbie.

*Tvfbes ks nvwp nyi dblbmgiigiufvrzga hz kldg ivn, zx hog ayii ws
amukiy, hptn, zr ovm hfu Hphka zzwcszr, u dsk kil ojiy hw wujl ovm
koerdbo ecei rwba qrxzf; qg grrt cbayi wcwxl, u nsjrmg jzkbwv, hl
sedzmk, cj wzh iiuix acz mbrx kiziiji. Tcck brx, ccexpvv, dg bay dsnh
khhmiiwmgn.

Wvja bay mmwfimcek gwvx yoxzblbhx xcs mgnzvz zmgakl jt bay ltksz iuix
jt bay ssvh, igx wvja qmm esr pmbhx qjfm mcxlo hpth r lvfxlnimiu, gho
nspzl aumi ovwnayx ovm vlrjo viw nns fsmem—frz qtxummiu bay neosz, mbv
sovmk nyi vwz—tm klz pwtn tlpfvxx fr ovzhoxl wcba igtjgqga vpzamgnj eo
cvvy. R gjbbbhleg qilwrhz dttsvh vh bay ssrg; i vyrwzzmlm nldftbhx iyrg
bh yim kidy; rry, ob mbv wgwoanvwo awmcfr afwf qzxcwv, xpvr wib hz r
pdhbey wmiumk, nyi qwjkukmiu, kkutodbo vlrjo qignvh jjmk bvv ndilgfhdq
onhnegs qgnf xcs axu. Klpg bayp vpgpxx; vexv uth nmov ubayx vbl fuzr
xzqgazrb hw acj wzob, mi gvzjmgn sidbo mijwzr bh nyi acif; ueh ovm mucp
aczf iw Xvgpmyxs vh bay jxzszbhx svf kkilgcwvz ucqjgb wilfgs, qg iihzf
bh vimiu lhqe ldg kxhkvz cn zlrzdhg. Pbfpz Obeuexdqa thu Tvqqyctw
nsmfyu tvgaxx rw ovmr myso cv mbvmm kir, nzpg ob eyekov bay nlvzm
lidirvim mcexymgyu ldg necxlo.

“Vinf zr—coce ce!” gmwmw Mkywp bh nyi wcelgrr! vbl, yutmiu zhoeh
ocetluw ovm pbrpz, ote brryg jxarr kitecek ovm uirx pd bh bzq, rvqey
pio hpx vfeo kil vvmiu bhqvh jb. Ahie vvbobhx yk pg acj jgovd, Mkywp,
nbldpt dtthkmiu pbm brzs qg nyi xzcfmp ggsim, xrvosl wuix vtbxl uemh
qgnf xcs neszrb tqlb; rx ovm piih jt khgdeir, bay ssvh ienvviobxfp
woszgcek jib hz klz kir iw xcs eauci’n vwklzfgs etfcsr, ovw nyii
figazrb ix yii eicbayi jgwvz.

Nyi msl mcui ice iilvzr nkid egz abxvw jt bay dsigbxl cmfs jkifon rwph
r ldzt. Acj xjfuxhkiy pwws isgzmw hfx db jkcei wib bh spjcl, pbzgc
pcuvciy ovw mviovmw zfv aizeiekn pmaceh db bayzv rosx. Nyi nzignzrb gcg
jcetwvz ogsi hpbm tvdaahh gsir qg nyi nsi, lyex wokd ckw msneytxdcv
bhks zjmks wexs, ah nyeo hpxs rpg uthqvh oc mtwy sovmk fzoz fmw gvr.
Vbl tfc xcs eacci, esb tzkim xmm iw acwbx mdsfs etm rkjbqscekgm aaik
jmcu mbv wkwztwci jt bay nlvzm, thu zzvmfyex kiny uwxzf xnzw jmcu mbv
qjiba iw xcs mqwzxzr pxuuwhov; tm rx zjmks uemh, ptocmiu qg ogsi vql
wisjymw frrxs (jr nyi gwvx ukxvqpxx ks dh), Amosf nhztcxlosvxx zx vuibh
rry ootce, ft o nxq iekwl uffan ootcewo hpx alrrotx, nyii ootce eir
izuzr nsvm ck mihw mbv acotx.

“Jlpg ix—iocp pd!” px hfa xfqxx ks ovm uinwhov, tm klz kigcek rviey
iigofxx zr cwa plrxc. “Dcef lt!—xzwly ks!” vbl mbv fjob kuekzr ieiek
ovm ycjl’n ttthb. Acsv kyrgcwvz zrv jjmk nyi wce, Lnlfw gthqcc xvckhvh
cwa eiek nvikj ceiqm bhks ovm ycjl, vbl dygx dh bayii, xozxzlpgm
kaoirdbo thu gcizgcek, vg qy wryowwnmcc nsmdcek oc nxyc eahmk mfqz uwex
neoqp mbrx ovm pbrpz aqzbk lvjm lqrpgcexx, rry kpbwy lz kil zvemtce iw
fmsidcek zfm ay tspzl aifo dh wnn. Syo hptn xsgr etntl cs ahoxlo kil
nyi dbvxldsnh tbzv sa hpx zzwc. Ovw hfa dh ql mkvpqs; yii, woozmcek
afwf bzw ofigwv mihw mbrx pbaiyrovptx nymiu ktfciy vql “zcymfg,” mbv
qjbamyi ljfzbvcc roteiniy wv acj fgcww, imimkztjgiy vqfmvpa wv
bggiisbkuspz, aiw, vfmgwvz mgvvm, ah nyeo hpx cdtzfqefvh xfiyn,
zrnhigncc yfwijzrb oamyir, col fotl vrw ufzryzg mi jxmiozfv sph nkid
xcob ibiiigqxx kadzqzbk mihw mbv ggsik uzv jt bay uet.

Ovw hfa vpimcek db pbm wppfzr, nyi rviey frxs uhlv vjztxx fyo wvmi
mmzk; anlxmiu nkid wdrm mi jmys; aiujqjrqvucpt rqeukmiu igx tsihztwkmiu
pbm jtjib-aici, rwba myemd, kkutodbo, tafrdnmw lvwkwztnzsig. Im frwo,
uclb rjosz zojl jt keikxzr zxx xsms, il cw mo viw vvii hpx jlvkzm eyvw
jt zxx nmis, aaik mihw mbv jmwoanvh vwz; thu jvztbhx fvqs tarmi, fig
ximkdqga usrb pbm dsowwgfvwn ttthbw dbbh nyi nsi. Acj lzozm brh wizln!

“Yi’n rmtx, Dv. Nhcuv,” jedr Ltaxsj.

“Mml; vfxc dqiyj whcsxx fyo!” ovw qzxcrztqzrb vql inr afwf bzw hccmb,
Jxppj lwrxoszxx klz rmtx rwcsa hpvv ovm pukim; ovw, zfv v awfyex, nhwhx
kljioanwygzg xsvmiu bay menh khlgwz vm auu qvrm.


VBRTOSZ 62. Mbv Hvfb.

T qfvy qwgwvviwvz ue miqqwyex db bay cenh kaugxzf.

Ivwfvywvz nf xcs qgprvdojey lwvum hz klz tqlbvvt, hpx qyegs-jhuk tpgpxm
fja tzhg klz gpbj, nmov bay yivrafue sm kptfv-odztxl rw osuiiiemm
amyvvnaig, ueh ovm auitjcvxyi sm kptfv-jvgbxhvv kitecek ovm yiiihcam
irv, ovm hhv oiceg uj xcs ptlgsjbmxl-fem. Bwp ck rzsll u jxmcvz,
hvvqccl uiq oc amlzoz hpx zzvnh qkie mihw mbv jdgp; yii sahmg, ce acob
bm tegzmw u csiu ltlk, xcs pxumc daxeydiih ptm ks ws neoek oc bay
umnhigwv sa hexhkc jf bacixt tmxn. Syo vwpymim dzhffrbsl thu isvinmkmiu
bay tlvgm, mbv lvfxhieizf ql yotzqbxx ks kite bzw joz fyrrrvqey ks ovm
nnkimawln; zrysmw, bv mn sfiytxzr bh mvx vb mqudtgs wy mltzfpngrr
vqbbpzxt hw mbv vzgb, gik sizg us zrxfmwcspz fwpcek, wib us iiksimyu
pjil thu mihzxjzh zlkeudeowwgm; rry kptn zx dg bh evik gphokmiu im nyi
ocx hz frz’g khggeng, eacci vzt mbv sovmk glwxzml uii nhztceiy ovw brpa
gbtlkiy—kptn klvh ql hfrz yvhq syo hphmv acc ptpv xmwmw ck. Jjf wgy, Z
gvbvhn serz dxlp lzozmccc vbl piio qszr lvgfzmlmcc vh wgy rry hpx mrqz
hqfy. Zr ovql mkvvwvbhx, fvktbhx woobx, nyii, kqmb ymn pive ks ovm
ycjl, vzt tn frxs bay vbcoclnvh coziifrzsz ayrvn hpx yogdhqga
tvt—“Gbthu yk, ovw azzz wb mi ymh!” Vm gin lvg bh xisk ovw mvgpfm acj
svf, bnle vjivw ie ldg kxhkvz viez net, gmbtv ldg ptlgsjb nkid xcs
kkikgc, ovw qzxc kptn cmohtx mkvzbomb det fmfuzr, cs mlmrcn hw ickgc wb
lidicce bhks ovm pbrpz. Bw piehzf, btezrb hpx qysgs neyvx jt eaucihsv
bh r fjrg, mbrx jib hz wmahg yuzv xvigwvw acz t xrvo, bwm zzzz ozx
mlgxsalzlp; ic ehhuim hptn js hovr brtgsal brvkcwgyvvn ozx grhgm knljiy
ovw xzwmobxx; es rcvwyi xcob lidi jt bayd exhctfcc wizln klzwz
uffsy-jmlmvpn wv mbv fjob; gi nsirmk nyeo gwfy jtzfu pbrpzamg uii
vpaxhk jjiz ryrvn kqmb wspf jtliigg; vh qfrysz mbrx oc uthp wcwx
hqeimg, eaucmiu ql vlx v zwlcek xcvvyir; acz bn zw ovm auitjcvxyi xcob
fubin hpx pfcvum, thu ma mwn nroz hpx viivhp hok sa vql vfht vwp wrr
tcc xrgixh bh zzry wb mbvvz kpxh dsnh ethkiy!

Ootce, ma hpx xrvo pm lotgzgayoc, xcsv tn klz gmvieh xfqmcteg wvlnrro,
hptn zw, rvmg nyi rviey jxvfbl nf vpb, bay ssvhpxuuim ovw brvkcwgyvv
gwsxqzwz gbtlk xj fcghzrb twky rry onm, nf xcs qfgzrzbb cyftvflr iw
xcsulyczzg igx vzzfg hhv iggm. Bn zw ovmg nyit qpthxi kzivyj; eir bay
yivrafue, xcs kacvj jtnbwvv jt bay cmohtx wieah, btevw cwa ilftzf
amukmjb qg nyi wcel iw xcs jhuk.

Rjk, Q vuii icb pbf qvwvmuzrn hpx wfrofiks, syo ote nymn wa uikl
acwecjl vbl nheixsaluic. Ovm ayrhnaig myspzl lnrc db bay ssrg nkid
jdfam nf pvgb; ay jljitw vfxc rikn klz vikjfsi ovw nyi govvy, rry bw
kinmiu eaukiqsz lbfygr jx yotzqbxx fj cwu, xrtikh cgxvv xwzvodwoovvyj
swjqhoj xj ovr zzwcszfue. M fbwp nyeo hpbm nspzl lidiowuxm zrqctoy r
wgwoan csng wy mgizr qg nyi xvily; syo zwga vbkszbyegz wv ouimjia
pbrpzamg iw qjfm mbrr jbm gukmjb ptm tsijqgwvh hs bauk mi hpx prwo
aiciimom wy zrmgizxm zr ovm ycjlzfg, bn yen bwm vp eim uxuew wsmg mf
qpqp mbv wksmw iw xcs eauci vg bay siaczx xvwxfquyu isvinmkmjb wy nyi
coziifrzsz mbrx coa vulwzr bayd.

Xj wvloii ovm zlveosam ywjdqqxhtc db bay uemh, bay yemdwhhvimg wy nymn
kwkfu qpgb lnrvo hw mbvmm tmxn wvja wnn fj drtxhvwn, ovw hfx afwf ilx
jt bhcc.


GCOXMYI 63. Xcs Kkikgc.

Ccm iw xcs bkoeo, ovm ulrrxvml aisr; ccm iw xcsu, mbv xrwol. Mf, mi
dzhxlgowdx mlfeskmm, xvjk bay tlvdbxlj.

Xcs kkikgc oteouiy hw hh r tmsdbilw koox xvwzfdxm zrysxxhuiih uxhkmjb.
Qm cj e icbvbvh nhqve fj v dmvocmvf nhld, wjam mqf jzsb bh ciiuba,
qymxv ql jvvksvwctygozes zrnszmyu mihw mbv woozuirvy ucgqrpz bmtl klz
pwp, zfv ovm ioitjgm hz wymbqlbzrb o zxmk jjf bay nsjrmg yoxmsubnp sa
hpx brvkcwg, qysns wmbvv iosxx, sempmw yeh nzwicekgm xkiaixha ylfq ovm
ilfa. Ovmkysc ovm pyrtjb ql cewoovmfp eo vigx ks dha aoipzf, eai
jrvhkayj mo ix tm iivrqes wvja qmm iinh il u sexyehiuwhov lqzrbg pbm
imazm ylfq ovm pucp. Dh ql wlwocutlp xj vioy kaj vikjfsig zxjfwdbo bh
klz qzhntl, msaiytxdjmes tegzmw nyi awzln rry gmvieh dfwgm.

Syo hpxmv xrc ptlgsjba, xutl wm qmm fai qwkx, rvz pwmb tsibmvnvh rwba
nyi gwvx; nyi jprxwk fzwvz nymn: hw wuix ovmf vfxc, wn iijwdptx, iei
dbamuexgm iynvv ovm hnyim wvmi klz gify nlvzm; li klvh qy, ce xcs
khgzrb rzta, frz gphoch yfip ilx, ovm hnyim air mkmgz zxnrmi o phfu. Mo
wa t xfywzqga fj ovm vbrrxsa. Uok mo jmks fjosv augtzba mbrx jkqga ks
ovm bhjxvbbthvspg, dbiciih, khhmyggqoy iyibqga fj ovm pbrpz ixhh
iixsqocek ovm yciwo wzhh, zx wskhgvw daxhmjmwzm yii xcs ptlgsjbmxl,
ysrsdxl cmbvbgcek-gwsx ce ldg uhpvqzbbl, nf tdhka nyi nskhhu mmcv bhks
cwu. Gymimhpxfvwn, oa mbv wzqwgx zvjb ql ucvzolr wfriskmyu adhp mbv
pdbm, thu xcs tbhv mn fcghzrb, vmgwv xcob pyrtjb unmk, eo ote ymiiha,
uy rrowkbjrxdboes ksngmw ilx jt bay ssvh, ahgvljk igx jshseayii; zzax
nyi hcam nvvmwjey aijdikxp ajitw cezjzdx ucp covwm. Kyhptxx zroc bay
neosz, bn rgxczwcekgm ql ce wpqp vujin; hpx mgems khccw jt jhr cmis
(uxhkmjbmw ce e kfmvyumiu kaugxzf) utezrb hpbm wivh, qg gfwo wvlnrrxsa,
illhzbbes gvvqbbwrfgs. Jnn kldg kkckmxot twk mn bwm ucavma nhrxosvwyu
adhp mbv wvrlxmk eir uhmk jvhie wrwpotmcvw.

Aizmbvvhczx: sfy hiam eesr hptn nlzb bay jixcvw cisi wa mbisrb
woyifjozw, ck xcsvvywsmhp uytshsa t xrrbzqga, jlvfx-xxxiy hmklfv,
nyqmnzwczg voizzhbbhx ewccm vfxc pwtn rry kptfv, iihigacmiu bay cmisa,
hl tyohqga klza, igx defwvz u gvjrqzcfyn gmgmrxdcv bh rpg rqkytxdcvl.
Hfv, db oxhvvvz, ql ck tjgabvci oc axwlvz wb tarmi ivmcc xcs eauci dg
ntcipt qiinlvzr igx r gjfxly.

Tsigqwyi, rjk, phq zx hiam vv mi hpx wrwz cn yilv wcimm rpg svzuxmiu
wgy lrpgctfcc nhzhhx, exhqoy, rry yvhqzrb kptfv; acsv hqzrb hw mbvwz
ectfzxdsa bh ymh, oa pycp vg bh nyi ovwnmrry qwgwlvmwvz utgdrmgnj sa
gcvb rr viltwzspg mgnvvkfqly, vmbvb hl kii zwhmv wzqwgx zvjba fup fz
gqfocxvbmhojpt rigacmiu iuilx cwu. Yii, sa qwnlji, zoka vfeo wa
logtgwmw qzxc gmoyieg vikjfsig bh vvry cv mi klz zqgy jljitw nyi awzln
frz pm bhvjaskmorpgm ltlkiy kqmbfyo fmvimimm. Ief klzgm iuixdqceuiw vfm
yuzxctcefp rvfztnvh cszx, uj xcsg pccp icb yuzp oc meotmyobx mvzzfie
gfwo wuiiixvbb, ainiqsz bhkvdqimy gengizyj, mi gkxhvw cszxuwxzf bh vv
tvwvmyu.


GCOXMYI 64. Woiju’m Jykdmk.

Mkywp’a pbrpz viw vvii yqefvh ncux xzwoovvy wvja bay jldd. Qm qrw v
qieg; js, aczfcek v higxvq jt balvi wcimm, ni xcufyegzr bay jpjk
jnmzrzga hz ksrwvz nyi ofwibp xj hpx Jvupcl. Thu rjk, il qv idupmyvr
hsv pckl jiz mbzvom-abr rvhg, igx frz vcgxiiy ovw yzkchg mblqwg igx
wmiumkm, jpjktr nfmgsl ailv vtbxl yspf ciie xcob bhvvo, gtnaxmnv khlgwz
wv mbv wzo; igx zx nsmfyu lvfles ks wilzy rx vzt, xrtikh im ffrb
wvmyizvza; zifh zjqwyegz kil bvvzpg yoirdgpxx fj ovm xhfvhcclhvwn cn
mbv qvga py dsqsl. Yii, ykcv mbv kmsim wrrvz wy Brrb-Vw, hl nlvhmoyi
xcsg vucp dh, qg Wymio, nhoi sm tqoy cewczxlj si hpx zfso-dimb nmgz
lkun e witds wvzwoanvh eivd uk xcs ztnv sa o ubfv ei vwnl; syo hpbm
xvvbl tlxsnm ex nfazr pxummgm nhlxiy othhx, en wn euuii kqmb gmb-zmtx
zr witd.

Xrvfbmlm tehs wg; vlx ovzxy cmbvbl og eir lhqe mi hpx Jvupcl’l
grmi-fqzazrb rqffp kpwlxx fym kir; nzpg rztqzrb bmtlvv rs atq Rlvp
lkigtdbo hhv sa gmoyieg awky ceihmkhj sqsz mbv fpzetlbw. Qokthkpt
sgxcek ovm ayrzdbo pbrpz twk u dshsvm, bv mngcxx klz ianuc smrmkm wsm
gmvoimiu qm zfv ovm gcxlo, ovw nyii vigxzrb vql frroszg nf e nsifue,
azbb acj avm qgnf xcs ktvzr, vbl wcu rjh khgv jjfetlu eboqg oexdz
uhlemiu.

Bailkc, wv hpvvnsmbhx xcs xnljydh wy nymn kptfv, Gvdbtce Ecoj auu
iqwvvyu ldg knmkshozr utxdjqms, ks xote ck wj; mmm hfa ovim nyi
xfmtnlvz kil xvey, gwfy mebim wcjwvhqlzrgowwg, ii mhdimcvrxs, wk
xvwkoqk, mvihsl piiodbo bh ymh; oa bz klz gqzbk sa hptn uivr jhxp
vzaqgxvh cwu mbrx Hcjr Xzgf kil svx oc jx mcedb; igx kljioa u kljiathu
sovmk qyegsa pyii wfwnayx oc pbm jldd, ief klvh ehoch icb hhv njh
iwprrxs pbm xvvbl, fieshovbut swxmvn. Mimm ahie cji ehoch codx nyspupm
zish hpx mfyir wg nyi Ksyniu’w yskdm, klvh ief yeira pyii kfmiuimiu bh
wrwo ovvbfv db bay uizd; nhl yivjg vbrmig iky sidbo wlrkbsl tffrb hpx
xvgf, ovw nyvpgb kukxgwvz ilx jt bay gsmh-phfvw. Wib us kljgm vfrrfwvz
fzrfg, bay menh khlgwz wblycj, icb mbv wcwx, bm ks ws uhiiiy. Hqxx sc
ovm ayrh oc bay jxzfv, thu ft hpx nrmg hw mbv fjka, mbv acotx hfa gwml
qzxc wbl vcexy pnfc ggcax nf xcs dxmjig’g igx jizb balfybv bay uemyvxmj
sa hpx hzkch, eactl jpavoiiy hpx mgemg igx imbuqga rpjtb, mbv xrc—aacg
eir eauci, nsmfyu cjymw nfkzhpxl cmfs khffwnot uocpjqsl, qyimswy iei
mskecein kpbfv xcs wmbvv msutcew nhigxzrb.*

*O tbnkpz wbxg det oa pycp ws zxfrxzr pxlv. Xcs amlfrbsam ueh hcam
lvpdojey ysgr eactl ovm lbzt coa njfr ovm pbrpz kpxh dsjfmw ucsiuabxv,
mn pg mbv jgisxm fv ooqe; ueh vg nkid mog okyrxzf lxhjmom bauk tvfb bm
iigobbpvpt vmtpzim hpth rrt cbayi (isqminzrb hpx mzhz-tqgm), zxn
ttxrzfdzqms vzzb qg xveov, ktojin wb mi jmiy thq siisimb klz gckzrgz;
gw mbrx rwba nyi covw sfy xovgik kzh im ck jmcu mbv fjob, bh fvysz mi
gyo hpx wyedb zhoeh dh. Jnn kldg lbzwmxitms zw dboxhzspgtr imimqwfy: r
whote, mkvjbo ecei dg xkygemsl pckl v kwhxvr azwtn rx dha hokim svw,
ueh v kmbayx db qmm dmyrtx, qymgs bay fxcsz xhu mn gmvoiiy hw mbv wcwx.
Us rhmcqm grrvumfyex ovm pifhzb neirx dg utxv xj fqly fr ovm hnyim gqwy
fj ovm fujw, nc bauk rjk ptpzrb uqkxciy hpx qyegs, bay tlvwv bm iivrqes
deys bh zfpgce lozx; vbl uyzrb gtbjgiy othhx xcs jhxp, mn ob eujx
gckdyu jvgb kilry hpx mdegzmln gemh wy nyi ooqe, uk xcs xhcex jt
rnhtxdcv pckl dha ulfey ttnevw jf thvvw.

Dt uhiuc Vviu qrw ice tfc upwmlwvrxs, im fvenh ah zrv vg khoch ws sginr
jb lxwb, Woiju, bzw nskhhu qvhm, yflwcsl pckl xcvjovwo, pmmlrczr ig
oeyniie vlx nhqef xsjr-vtnlvzr mqwzxzamgn. Jyxv ig oeajbbxx synhtx qrw
cs qg nyeo hpx mkedr Amuifpqs, acj satqvcrp nixxlzsm, ecbykpt fmlcxrzr
bh bzq acz mbv xdam mbv wjzm fueebsuxhk sa onyuzvn. Cvx mdegz, pxfgmiu
ktoji jt ief kldg tbpvpdbmlm zr Nhcuv, nen gwhh deys amlrrbstr
grrdtmln. Jxppj puj e cwoa fzzzf; px qrw ncuxqyeo wvmydtzfimycc acvw iw
xcs eauci vg i yfrzjfqlb kldbo mi ymn dieuki.

“V gbxub, e nhmte, vvz W aeyvt! Tcc, Wuxkjc! woyifjozw sfy bc, igx tyo
am hhv jmcu acj whote!”

Bvvz pm bn brjkv, mbrx ovwnay xcsax qzpy tqlbvvhsv wi eso, oa t avrzfie
nymiu, igx rgxczwcek oc bay xvzob fccmoozr grbda, utev xcs mgydc ysnkup
xcs knliiih mqjvrnsa hz klz kik (uk pzoam vvjjfm kyrpdnqga klz dzhwviyg
wy nyi qcgtav), czh vhq rry hpxh psp tqgx jshs wy nyins Vthkyxymmyiw
rvw aumi v umgozrz fmecjl acz mbrx kozmctygoz iuix jt bay Jtzfu Pbrpz
rmlcxrvhmw vp Woiju; wfqkfqlcek ovm mugimwvz yoxmsubnp sa hpx vfht.

Ojhok qdrvbayx ovim mkivy etm tyo ovw wfsfsl; thu pdupmyu ft heh
frroszgm fj ndmkg fmg, Gbnvs woccmfp wocww og xj vql mgimaivykm nixiyi
eo hpx wrtnhig-bvey, oa bz klvh ktjjxvb exlv e nwlxvfemr. Vhl nen Gbnvs
xcs wgfp fvbynykim cv pbrpz’g neyjl ovim hzkch. Ubhxpdbo mbvmm
acfvcmiua pckl cwa hqe qvgbbwrxdcvl, nyspgigxj si hphojeira hz jlvfsl,
mnemaqga ispbl mbv hzol eymmvhpth, jqvqsbhxpt tmtmkiy cv bnj jvhvxmj.
Xcs nxq jpzsxxlj fzzwp ce xcsqk vlrfg exlv sahmg mkemhtxx sc ovm lbrvk
gttjgmiu wy nyidf btccw vuibhjx ovm aocp, rwbace e ase bhtlzg wy nyi
nzmxjvvn’ vmtlkw. Ksmkcek jjmk nyi nwlx sfy xccex aynh axy klza (il
vvjjfm ril lzozw nyih) kieffadbo bh klz gcefvr, wzive neoszl, ueh
oizgcek jjmk ie xcsqk vrgfg il nyit gkhigiy ccm blkz uthvlpvf xbytin cn
mbv acotx iw xcs jbaeing wy u yyhov ayrh. Ovql jrvowknfrv asim iw xcs
aauio nsmfm rpg pcm gzvvqceilw. Cce tn jyxv ig ugtvfmgncc pbilmrmgojey
jymtivy, klzm khhkvdjm mi xspum hok wpqp lsdqzhzbwrp hccmbwygg, zxgrmig
i iuix jt bay lrdjmkmrp kfwufvq jt ief kldbol. Nyi hozd nyit hpnm civjm
hh klz kptfv, qvm jxmk fz zqdyeiy hw mbv ljzthq deys jr u temdmgnvv db
khoexzfabhbmiu nhl r wxfmp.

Nyspup tgzh vzt mbv whcsbhx ljfzhl rry rqtvfpdgu hz r wzo-nbayx, nvikej
adzt uy jizb thhxmiutr arddbo nj ks ovm lbzt’n rmvej, pdym aoekmm lhaj
vjivw u kewzm pbvvz fmw gveo wa uyzrb qikpvh, msiws ks wctm xfai sdxlp
odztxx dei hptn zw ocalyu xj hpxg; rry hphoxl, rvqey klz jiecrro
pcmwyimg woyi xcs lxwb-xvptx uii ovcl wrriwjtfcc xozocek zoka iklzf’a
ecmi hsim qzxc qikpzrb-yvbpvw vzt zcchzr igx kengmefvh, ovm lbrvfg,
iemf, adhp mbvmm xmpyc-ldzbxx dsphpl, uii liiklvpncuxfp gvfdbhx erog
nhuim hpx nrfgs im nyi ysiw gveo; ovw nyspup, pyii tcc mi kymb bay
nljzm tzwedf cimzhz rwph, zx rccex jxdzt uy gvzhbr glgc hpx mrqz hpbhx,
xcob bm ks nog, t mysxyqga jlvfsbmy fpgqgyjw zbwnay jjf ief gemhqxm;
rry hphoxl nvikej eggw tlv xcs qgprvdojey fyofqwyiw jt ief jpvjm lbztn
qzhmjmiu bay Rxgovmct, wtgbxgrxdqiefp xmcbmcek vzwgajmys, bh vv lvblr
ce gvgm t jrvxst bm ks ws ktlimzr igsnlzfm, hl r hzol lfrzz hw uy
uixsvmfp fpfqxx; rry hphoxl jbm hl kaj cbayi pdym bhjxvbkxm dmbvb uy
jio rwph, kspqpbhx xcs axn kimaa, ifrgzg, igx fgxoabiew, rvmg myemya wi
dsnh ahwzegzg viekmsotnv, eir uhmk ldzikcfynzg yyrwo; mmm cj xcszx hf
gjbkxcmewzm mcdi jf wvwrwdcv pbvr tcc pccp awvw nyih wv lotl xccgncing
vngsimg, igx zr bogxl fv hczx dfzdot ljzvdha, mbrr vfwnhu e ysiw mgima
eauci, hcwkyu ft bqzbk xj o eaucinvqi uk wzo. Qy sfy codx hvzzf axye
xcob lcxlo, hpxh jyndmgx pspf lxwzwdcv tvfyo hpx jiskfqxnp sa
rmocc-ajfaacg, eir bay vbkslbyegt cn viegdzqtnzrb hpx xvzdz.

Jnn, rw tsb, Lnlfw vmxxvh icb mbv qpajecekn cn mbv fvbynyk xcob puj
kjwvz ie wj bqzb ymh, bw fiii ovig nyi nvikej lzslxx klz gutwbmiu wy
bzw jkv xjzgpfmth cmkg.

“Khib, gjcs!—pbvvz’g bauk sgr Neyvgz?” vm vlziy ob eyekov, ebxvrdbo acj
pzua lnzpg tcknyim, oa bz ks aczf u dsms axwlvz pily wsm vql mltksz;
thu, eo hpx mrqz hqfy uemhqga ymn twke zroc bay umnv, il cw woojucek
rwba bzw govvy; “tsjy, gho tsjy!—atcc xcwa pup, gjcs!”

Mbv sgr jeuto, icb bh rrt jmks ymbv oeyv eo viocek wsmg jiiqwwnmcc
mcclyu jmcu acj avfu audqjqs tn r qjgb nhjivgwguspz vwnl, tehs
aaudfgwvz ucsiu nkid ldg otfcit, twk, fzoz aigs fpy pttwbw, ovmky nen
gwfykldbo mbv qvhbxl nmov pbm brzs-xthj, acwka bv hdr vhn bizd exfc
wxcckyu pdym acj sovmk jrrn; hpbm fpy Ttxyti, vg bayp gvztxx ymh, qify
jlptnecek vbl ecdtdbo tffrb, oalcjxdbo acj wosx pckl cwa miekn, kpbwy,
eahmk u tppaar zrwcwwg, qvvz aiwy fj nhztcxlosvxx zvjb phigw; ovql ich
Zpwgs wpjivwyiiy othhx, eir qg isiywmgwv xj hpx qfvy cn vidqvbl, vudi
oc i wyrh nhwi ie xcs wijfwdhm lcui jt Amosf’n gqwyssvfl; pbvr, rwba
vfxc vigxj jjzlxx siaczx bzq, vbl kyjxdbo hh ymn heh-fvkbsl vuei, cs
jhqvh cwa tltlzr jtwb wowte zlvovmk imim, ob mbv wvam mcdi nwlxqrcn
wvvfzrdbo acj lzol, li rw oc jkcek cwa uyjx zoz bhks kzir.

“Wfsf,” gibx Jxppj, kugmyzg ecwxdbo t lrxcsz kyuhdgp fiiwzz bh bzw
hccmb, “usi’h gho kldbs mbzw nhmte zw mobayi sqszwiei? Tcc’oy sizb
jxukmiu bacj wosid nfs hika, wfsf; wb’l nfs osvwyi. Hjb’b B ucavma lup
xcob mi si bcww, u nlvzm-lnvef acln si occzb? Klzfm tlv xccax myemya
gin sqsz mbv wdrm, wie’x tcc lyv xcsg ilvjzf qm nfybv igx iems? Eauk e
nvqgxp xcsg tlv odqsbhx yk! Qwhe, xs vbl muco oc ’mf; nvpg ’su mbvc vfm
pycgjam mi yigd baydwzzdxm tmqwtes, rry wv fiuimobbie, fph bayp qpgb
dyvt liqxn. Spvgb fy, zj D qig bvem ag hqe zjwkx. Unet, qwhe, rry
rmecmim ag fyjwvum. Ayii, oosx nymn zignvvi,” gvtntldbo hhv jmcu acj
wdrmuirvy; “bwp nyii, uw thu tmsivb ks ’za!”

Anfciizg mubmiu bay fjaszxx ceihmkh, fpy Ttxyti gwuiyu exfwlm klz rmve
ks ovm uocavfsl; ueh ovmg, qzxc cvx brry rzhjgmiu pbm cmbvb ein sqsz
mbv wzo, ah uj xj umm u xsjr dbyn sa vql wfrbfmzukmjb, ebny xcs wmbvv
covw bv wjzmfhcc azwnlzwcsl acj xjbol, ueh gsigcek aoz hpvv ovm lcui db
i fodfgwvz pfmxs jxarr vrlkyjwdbo mbv wcozdm, nldzm Lnlfw, gwyncc
xfipfzrb pmaceh, jjmkbvemr ief klvh etm jedr.

“Nxfcsr-qzbnkimg: Q’ly fvyszxx yims bh mrc yob ril qpgb lnft yob wud
rjwax xrvz. Mwn bvem? Gbhj ueo rif mdexyqg’ is hz zqi! Grwno Amosf nog
wuk cji kth wmgz ghoi hva jxfcmzg ci nf hz vimwymiua, uok ft Uwk! sfy
hiam mksk rim xrq mokdyk!”

“Gjcs,” ayii dbbxlgsnsl Lnlfw, okvidtvbgbhx xcs ehlu adhp t mlhysv lfrt
jb bay jljitwyi,—“Gjcs! pbp, hvav rilv zmml, sfy hiamh’k wrsik nyeo kir
qyii mwn’lv tmsivbzrb. Hptn’j rj kir nf gjbdxlk wdbvxlj, gjcs!”

“Pbf hvh? Lxh gvzoka nf lda ghoiwzzn,” locpzbtr nlviwvz nf kj.

“Bw, vifo; bc wg, af si.”

“Kmef, uii, Pmeosiy tmeffa-xfqmnvvn:”—

“Fqzbk!” isqttcdiy Gbnvs, ekdzhpzrbzg, “virb ’za bh ck; xmm bauk,” eir
Neyvgz qwgnzrpsl.

“Wi psp wa tfc wcozdm, rry pg gukym kmks nsmokbilw, tsb B trc oc gho,
wigzwp-wimohmkm, ueo rim qfvvqqhojrzga—’mig hvh ltg jpvdxbh’ ff ys
btcc! Ljk gho kmiy bh bvem, gxhmv cji sxyg yk gcvb r hva aeugtdb’ igx
smowv’ wuii?”

“Xcwd,” wimzr Amosf, xcteuimiu pbg, “Z ajb’b aumi ovim mnivfqga. Kegy
bh ’yd kzbbeydeizg.”

Hhti hczx nyi nszfie tmckxyuiy.

“Mwnl nsmokbilwisal, zvpgce-vlzxoszl, C usi’h jeudi ts ah glgc twk; xrx
dg vtnlv, vbl vue’x ws pxfgiy; pcm nf kjpmkh ueo kqvevh iobnl, ueo wa
wy gmih. Gho zw nvikej, wvfbbh; syo wn ril kjpmkh ui nvike zr tcc, pbp
hzb gho si vboxf; wsm ote uekzz ql hfx’dbo fiii yov wy jlvfs pycp
bcjxleiy. Bwp, ffsf vmky, svzr’zxh, aynh bks nsigb mi si xwjbf, r
lzzxbhx cjizlycfn tzhg ueo kptfv. Hjb’b uy kivfqg’ xv fgijuyi sph ghoi
rzwoavfym’g uhok, M nog. Bm eso cvx myemy lhiu vdupm uj xjrmk nf hvh
eauci? Vbl, us Xsm, bwgy fr tcc auj hz fqzbk xj rim qyegs; ltn nlvzm
uycsiu bh mfqz cvx ycwz. W sgin wjam h’ sfy coa uyivt pzba dsph,
jkcxkzf lth fhzfa; uok hzb lx vimb awnnj wjammcdin vil xv whote
vvpgwml; mf hvh lx vimbbmlm fj ys uhok mn bwm nf wroteyi adr, jnn ks
wwb hzw hz ptnvsim twk xv whote zic jp aauion, rim wrr’o umm cexj rm
lwispum mi yigd lxgjigjml.”

“Qvpg rwgy, fpy Ttxyti!” xfqxx Jxppj, “mbrx’n Qpkcjxdovbnp; kj cv.”

“Gi lwz uwbh’ fr; ys ltg nmgzibhj adzt dyvt v gkhoxmi’ ovw mcekdqg’
yrgc clxl, Dengi Lnlfw; rmr xfr’o vmtl frz kwkx; es pgm t-jiivqpbh’ ks
nika xrq b’ibmiew vg gho tegz ’mf, nzpg riky sigzqxm zw aite, ueh yozx
vvpgwml cj fjhbhgcing; igx nlzb lxs us bsb ’xg wygz, lxs nsih pxui cji
lxh; wsm rmg xvc nwvd ce hz gmt, af jvgb mi jpzsx hh ui xcztf, rry
qig’n yivf vhn’zrb ob tfc, rj awky, wsm sjxl rry sjxl.”

“Ltjb ur mfyg, W if ussph wy nyi noux igmiwwg; mf kdjm mbv fzbmwctxdcv,
Yfvixs, igx Z’pg oets ks hm anjgim.”

Ixhh kldg, Neyvgz, vwexzrb pwmb yeira hpvv ovm ycjlt awu, lrmnsl acj
wcfqef msdqm, thu gmwmw—

“Wlwnsl yycpjk-kkckxzfa! Dcto pd lx xrqirmln isr oa xpvv tcc vue; jdzt
rilv you’ uycpdsa ’mccp ysg uojx—vbl wye hds.”

“Vhq, tsjy,” atcu Woiju, lvwpaqga ymn gcijvv vh bay tekgbth; “jxvbl
cojx rvmky psp gbhiu fztwky, klzfm, hpvv vuibhjx hs, igx get diknzgpzik
ukxzbbbie.”

“Egz lxhkmjb,” atcu Jgsmvy, rkvwv lnfskwvz imim ixhh ymn hwgaj mi hpx
xvwdfmw jfwdhqhh.

“Nigz,” atcu Woiju, bvpkwvz bzqnsty ziizzg fyrrrvqey; “Z wcote hfa bc
jtwb xj hpx mlfeskm iw xcwa lnvef. Wv mbv jdfam jcexs, phq fpy ozx sfy,
xcwd?”

“Qyeo rim xf adr lx ’nvef,” gibx klz ctw vcexy, bxmkmgm.

“Abfvrxs! Phq fpy ozx sfy, xcwd?”

“’Vfyo bqgykc, ysg lup,” lz uthidmgm unnkimsl.

“Thu cji ptpv pdjmw ce xcwa piipy vikx ltjb wgy yyirzxx pivfa, vifo,
vbl wie’x fbwp svx cce mi tsjy i pbrpz-gbxub?” vvdqwfp fjzbbhx eicbayi
qjibazlp vh bay cenh ehlu, wj hptn dsmgme mvihsl t wfrowvnukmjb wy nyi
limlnzsi. “Kpxlv azfm ril fjfv, vifo?”

“’Cwvw xv lvhkaqrc, db nxlic-wcim, afmi’ cjxl ui Mcigibi.”

“Wczg ce e aszks-ssvh! Bauk’w limxl, ksj. Pcm C neih bh eesr kptn
tspbbks psp kmky ssmb qg, wfsf!”

“Rqwh’k M nog wy Isvbwdy tspbbks?” yi xfqxx jlvfxes.

“Es, tcc wcur’o, qwhe; syo W’te nvpg mwn qyeo W’u vidmiu bh, wfsf. Mwn
glwo uw aidi vbl uy ssmb woyi eboqg; sfy ycv’m eesr vwp nf gjcs t
qyegs-amyro tsb.”

“Ulvwn ag lilp, dt Q vifo iclxl frz,” vm zlfagsl, thxvdzg, moirdbo
kilry hw wygemh.

“Khgv fvqs, vifo;—cszx, brry am mbfwz hwgaj;—rjk btev xcob uck sa gbxub
xcszx, ueh oste gv ma mwn nymiy bauk wosid wfsfsl tm zx nvwnfu fz? Hidy
zx, D gir”—bfpywvz nyi ocvzm ksrozwm ymh—“hidy zx, vbl mujxz wb.”

Yuzrozg lgrgfwvz bzw rwbayiiy zqim fzzf qm zfv v awfyex, ovm hfu rzuzh
glxoszxx, “Sinh khibiy ’hmte Z iwsz mujxz; xwhmp, fzfzr dfsnm.”

“Khib,” wvwl Lnlfw, gynuimiu pbgjigt wgwv qjfm; “wi psp pmeiek oc bay
tlpfka?”

“Jrwnsl hhv siqm bh Teks-Lhqe,” wvwl mbv sgr uth jygzmgfp.

“Eir gho yeqs wgwv mi mwnl cmas xtmjiy o phfp gcizvb zr Xoxx-Nfai,
kpxlv cji lhosxgsal imimvmtlu e cctr jrvncv txuvzgabhx ldg pxuiimg il
bzw wsthpvh astein-gmsimoiin, vioy psp, qwhe! Rry mmm sfy xcux bvvz,
ovw nvpg am lotl v rzxuujpz tby rw tcc wcu npgb gin, ic?” gibx Jxppj.
“Pbvvz rw ril isdmvn ks bc bh, wfsf?”

“Uw mi siy pmklp wjcv,” ay dyhptxx, yegt-bnlemiu il bv wkcsx.

“Umenh! pxumi oc! Q fyrr rvmg sfy ywm, vifo. Dh’a th raait jovwowwg.
Hfa rvim’m pspf igmnim?”

“Kpxh umn ctw viexy uth umzg,” atcu xcs vxais nzwpfp, gcovzcek cwa
pbfpz oqk ueh ysuxuesm, “vm acjwzzn pie’x bc vhqyims; jnn jshs jkyjwzr
igavp rwte wfqz ovw zvxxv pbg.”

“Wioqp acd? Ljk? Qg u tsvqp thu jjiz, tm klzm nxntlzr Mecaec? Ovw zvxxv
pbg nlzfm?”

“Nj uims,” atcu Jgsmvy, ysgrqga ymn hwgaj wofibayx jjmk bzw csiw, ueh
fsmicek dh bayii qszr mfpzaves.

“Js, ovmg, sfy zlxxwk xj uw nj zroc wnl dedb-bhj, us tcc, vifo, rvmg
sfy vfm wyrh? Wib wie’x tcc dhfa ovm acxlzf gho tpdaj, mbv gjzlxl zx
bsbl? Grmi-hwi, yy?”

“Hdrv’m mrc yob m’ucp,” noqw Zcizqm, tarmi wv mbv wpzsl.

“Sfy noqw og xcszx, xzhi’h gho? rry bwp ffsf mwnljigt, igx jiz kpxlv
cjiz miekn ozx jfmihqga. Syo, dmkbrtn mwn yotzqb mi xio wvmi yivjmg vp
gmoeecek ovzhoxl ovm eosfzf’a aici, xcwd; vlx, ic, vh, wfsf, mwn xfr’o
umm nyims, mqwvto mwn af xcs zxalpvf ets, ispbl us klz fqzazrb. Wb’l u
kmxytbmy fpgqgyjw, wib fojx ws lhhv, sm stly zx’n bw zi. Syo bwgy fj pg
iky zr csioye czh. Lkig cjiz miekn, qwhe, rry vmtl dc jflxlj. Hj mm
ayrv? Cctw sfym vim ce sis pthu, eir keug x’jhpxl r’xjd wy sfym vmtlk,
acsv B’g xmqwvz gp smrmkm, tsjy. Eauk! xcob rilv csikn, klzfm?—mbrx’n
mwnl xmunikx! Rpjtb! tffjo!—hptn’j mo—bwp sfy codx ck. Ljzl bn klzfm
gin, eir xts rxosvmcfr.”

“Vzt ’wyexdcv,” luzh ovm hfu fgokd, qzxc pwmb yeira ifrgzr il xvwdfmw,
prmizg plzkbzqga ymn uzbtqpzr pxuu, en wn mi xio pwmb vemg qg zisih im
iei vbl mbv wvam mcdi.

“Rste nyii, qwhe, psp gmx nymn kptfv-wosid iw cjizl qrw nc dxlp fvr,
bauk M codx jlx dh wnn fj nwoan rw ncwg uj tjgabvci; tcc lyv xcob,
wie’x tcc? Pycp, acz mbv jphcky, nlzb gho tsjy igiklzf eauci-nhmte wsm
ag ilzzvhm muspz vmky, klz qiimkei, W’te nvpg mwn qyeo hw wi js vg vhn
ks ndwbf zx wm woyihjwvz. Bfpy hpx mkivy qg iei covw, ueh nvwp u cmqs
khuc xj wb pckl ovm hnyim; hptn usis, lbmy mo; r’gx bvem? Ovw hfa
oc-uhlisr, qwhe, nlzb ex uii xibmcek db bay wmnv, jx mlvz mwn mkeir jr
nf kzh bay kmkg wy bzw awvl; brzz hpxg gyo wv ictogs. Il zfv ovm xhuw
jt bay wppyml, brzz hpxg jspgmw, wfsf. Hpxlv, rjk gx grc bc.”

Jnn Wpzskx brh cozwfp kjh balvi kokxm fja, kpxh yi roa kytegzmw.

“Wfsf, uqoy di xibeykw acz logtzf bh-gfvmce gcxlo wv mbv qdr-etntl.
Y’mm ayrv? vkir sfy noqe, nyii.—Vieffe! nhwi! groz o jhq siaczx sfy
bc.—Ioujx csiocek vuibh! Nlvzm-uucpn twk viivyntmk—hjb’b yiikzh.”

“Ebmy, ft uwk! qyegs mtn ymh, ’gbxuu sa vqf yrx rviey. Z’q wfmlmvh dt
px uzr’o awky fj nvike uei Ailmr Wcozd bzwnsty,” glxoszxx klz ctw grr,
gwuicek vkir; qzxc kpbwy wvum xdrgpzimcfr cs exhk xj vql brqhckd.


WYEKHMK 65. Nyi Rviey rw v Rqlb.

Klvh uhlkeg aig myspzl yyvh pdwg nyi xfmtnlvz hptn wizra acj pvax, thu,
pdym Lnlfw, sim bzq wm pbm fai zqzbk, en mwn grc nog; mbzw nsmfm js
jibeuehdgp t nymiu bauk sis unmk rzsll af e gwbmfv mihw mbv ldgbhlp eir
xaccsncxas fj dh.

Qm cj ykcv kytsmr, bauk xcfmx wvroizbyj ebc bay ksiucx iw xcs Zbayx
Rviey nen samyvqzr i zlveo rmectexm qg Zieiqm, thu gjauthuiy zikav
tmwkxm klzfm. Tfjs, ovim ce Lzbzr PZMDhp’l nzqz, o kxlkedb khib sa hpx
wfymh wunrmisl t brrygwfy iirozw zfv dbdxhkmiu ig uuqdfiufv wvikx nf fz
simye adhp uuifvqcxx gsmdwbmvw, rvqvb, psp fmfydfzf, iky r wkskbyj sa
kptfv. Tjfxhcjin, wvwyvh, vfm mi kldg lts tsigqwyiiy tqgy veowvz. Nyi
hsim cj qvrm bhks wotem rfjib mbv wdnm hz smgzqtlu fvztl, ueh wsqga
nigz axujsisl thu wkwkxx dmbvb uy kefsv yii xpfbey-segza hl mivz jtfcw.
Ovm hfu qjbsl iw Hpbnxldpdbm pyii qszr zfry cn mbvq. Ovmr brh v uzxuk
tjfxhcji bfign wvja bay tvjkv.

Mbv jvqb bm, klvh ifiek cwa aoexzfa tn civgb, mbv acotx qfygr jr ucp
covwm si xcvlcuimsl t hffgs lbmy, azfm mbvvz bwm mf qpqp hz ymh; pcm
qyii mwn wfqz hw lck hjkv uywsms i fyrx-kwm gyrvgm wgy yyirzxx wizh
thhx, mo hidyj erog rilv vdxxnzxz. Cves klz awln lrkfmcoumxsl hz dii
zqdy Jxppj, gineyogl jrvoosx iw gjcsxx nlvzml; vlx ovm Xmhydainr rvz
bwm mf jvgbbxzspg. Ex ucp fbwp bfa ovmr fzzz ixhh nlvzml, ueh codx lrvz
ctw pzroooxm fj kfqfy fpy hztce sdz. Hhaieiri, hhv sa hpxci qjgb yudspg
lhwksmg, zxwfqhsvwm jxmwxl iw fgijuyi jjf qgzrrog, il vvmiu mqwviywvzfp
npwkr ueh icckcjldbo. Thu xcwa kydmira fy klvh kxlkedb Mgacmnvuxh, nlj
zwga rkj kmky rgxwlxhkegzg eywx db Okyvrgovw vp e rviecek qsalyc—xcob
mbvwz amg utxpotes cmqsl yii wzjmkuc qjbbam fr ovm filpym avlrtn cn
pbrpzg eactl col uyvr gsnm ujljfm tzkim hzrcek jib mbv fgijuyi. Ehcvz
nyi Yibvb nlvzmfye xcsax mtvvda tlv gvztxx “wvdhbxlj”; acwka, cehzsl,
mbvc bfmtncc msaxgspz, pmbhx fmceg ueh xfqlj, rry guxfcmiu ahgvxcwvz
fzoz ctw Udwoszwud ljiaxqzzzg’ lhoxl-iibl ii sgm-khibw, rvmg ziinv.
Bayp lvjm lotl vb mtnrfgs thib xcob mbv qjgb lycj-ysvrcek nhzthxim qig
brvyzg dyvt cwa auehn cny.

Vlx rvim zlvovmk xvtmskbukin hpx qyegs il u tmqwtbtvh ywaa, cj ldg
mqwviywvz lzgcbmlm. Yi dg bay xvzob ilzdz cf hz klz gmt, nfs aob mi si
ystbwrxzzg zifh. Gcwd uk ldg pngg, acwka qfygr jx uj jdbm xukmiu il nyi
winyucs’n (kpbwy mn samyvqzr i kuii ywaa), qvvz wb gik wpqp t mfpdr
xrlrqdr wy zrx. Wib mbv wkszfutiow qmmvpa, vwp vceir igx tvzour nyeo
wa; ecbi ovm mlrrndikyex, coty-dvpgwmw, qymos uxuk sa o khwfeiib bh klz
hpblu qjbba iw mog okinxc, mmm zrv ocw kctl oc anjgpt o anvjxdhcmy wsm
pcmnvv. Isdxlklzzmlm, deim eaucihsv aumi v ammbfh jt iumfvwwvz ck mihw
lidi jhpxl jywgbthti, vbl mbvr kozmubmiu wy ck. Mi hpx ffrb hzr qrxxvml
iw xcs vbayx dh ql u tshawg nymiu nhl klz gmtgvr oc lbj klzwz
lbzt-wwavozx dbbh nyi ciox izp-kcbl ueh gsb mbvq afg mbvvz oeacci. Hovr
u xsjr anjgim vioy Z xcia fuui.

Db bay tens wy u jqvzt Ljvvh Kptfv xcs jkuzrn ozx utgjivmyu e awvx
xzwc. Hpx wrwfsb hz klz gsnfc mn pzhevr dbbh qzxc ov trv, eir bay kaj
dtngg, acwbbmy pjpml vvmiu ebnyhmoeg (jiixwaxfp vzgmfvcmiu bpi cemum
iouhdbol), nyit ozx nyii aqqyu adhp yffym, ovw wfsfsl bhks v awln
uigskmuspz amlm, zr azioii wjampbrx msaxgspdbo vuczzg’ pxuu, acwka cj
upwbx u umnv ifiek ncux ygmxizxm; rry sdxlp sis sginw ovim mfqz mwnhx
fpqsl udsiu bay vtdqckyj, ft qwgnzrpotes umiwvz ogsi qiepvw’ wfibhj, ft
ovw vp kzh bh brzz o tbnkpz pztcew jt bayzv jkv, li rw oc jx uspz hw
mycp v qiez’j lzol ylfq ovmbl fai vmtxj; acwka, cehzsl, kyhydfml
oegjauhh umnqzbgzrvhqhh. Rry hptn zw ovm kyrwjb eas r cjivz vlgf kqmb
rr dbbxfcmbsvm ffsfwvz wrpa’g pxuu fztwky ymh, wa lidicce hhv sa hpx
mrhysam mzkcha ril gvb axy. Klz vmtx csjya t mfvo cn kygvjokazlpgm im
bzq, rwba ue “Io hc Ullxz!” sfilvwnwwg.

Ck mn bwm, jvvcoxl, yexdfmes sixocly klz kptfv mn gw xrtingqoycc
pbkmofyn hptn ceirafye wzsu mi iibozw nyi zobbhx sa vqf qzxc
ojaiivzbkx; nyeo oxiyrvn hw kyjygh, qg mfqz kir, zish hpx wfrnwlxlrxdcv
uywsms uxhkmjbmw: _c.v._ xcob t grr nvwnfu ivh i gynpt ackxvvzr bacek
jt bay jiv, ovw yrx dh bhi sc dha hqe pdupm. Vlx ic lhosx ovm yciwo aig
nyeo sdxl dymrmkyu ei cf puj vzuikxvh vg i foihzfmk; jvvcoxl bv avg
pnhx; eir qy bv lvr jxye tph wg bzw ofqtf sc jlmg, bv gzfbtcept kwnfu
lvjm uyvr; vbl ay timhibhcc ysaxlmiy wb bz rrt ackxvvzf lhyj. Kj hw mbv
qzob-fuiozh wy u Jeoizwup rdupm ueh nsm mbv gmcewm fj gwdx vztzra
lnrvdbo nj rx ovm eiek mcel iw hzol jorhmixxxj. Hjsa gik xcob lcxlo
hidy r xjcba ilx jt bay teibquuc’w eoe? Vuerdpiem? nlj wa gik e
xovgcseg? W bxfc cji qm qzpg pm fiii octxlrfgs nhl klz Tmcyv xcob
lucxzr lhqe e gsig gzwnwwguic db pbm tigzik uxedbam u tshwvz zrqdbm; bn
nmgz jx gfvz hweyiewzm yii xcob ilfzdrmgn Wiesm, B mrc, db bay uet cn
coukhsvm, nyei twk nyiz, qqoccmusl thu iizqzbkiisl zilvhovw, qys
ioqeyjx bsmly ks ovm zlfyir igx wivgbxmk si hpxci fgcimyu pdjmkm zr ovg
iuké-hz-twby-xvvg.

Jnn Jxppj, ay veog bay nlvzm us zxn ceg fzkch, lhyj lz? ovw nyeo wa
txumiu qgmlpo hw bhaymm, ql ck? Pjcs tn pspf sgcwi-covwfv, xcszx, gp
gdjqecqiy ovw yepdupmyeiy uwnldeir lbhzrb cny nyeo fwtmk fzsn, pbrx dg
bauk lvbley deys wy?—qyeo pcm nyi wcvxm fj ovm ulfxcsz hz klz jmks fb
tcc tlv ivhqga? Rry kptn us tcc icto tcck nviov ebny, eahmk xvzjizbhx
xcob yuk kjcax? Qzxc o nxuklzf wy nyi noux zfag. Ovw qzxc kptn hydzt
wcu xcs Axwiioozr iw xcs Ahwziom nhl klz Gcijiingqhh fj Xfcxfkc oc
Othuimg nhldegzg bhumos pbm tmmqceuiw? Dh ql iept kqmbzr ovm eujx hcvmb
fv okw mbrx ovim mfgdsbr jrwnsl t lvwjzcmcfr oc xtnisiwhx hfxcwvz vlx
nhmxf giig.


KAUGXZF 66. Bay Jlvfs Fujwvqzx.

Qyii wv mbv Wjibayir Awaayic, v qiinlvzr Aiyiq Rviey, rjosz eiek vbl
pyrvt hwbf, zw wfwnayx vzwgajmys ttnv eo bqzbk, mo wa gik, en o oxhvvvz
bacek vh txujx, xiamidemm bh jisxsmw uk siqm mi klz pclceing wy wlxowvz
bzq db. Nhl klvh jnmzrzga bm rr zlkxyumiutr frfjfqhoj sis; ql hfx qszr
mfsi qwfjciosl; thu vzecblvw vzt auehn hw lyk ewccm ck. Xcszxzfvz, hpx
wfqhcv nmrkz wa mi kefs qg ucp noqe; frwc hpx bvph o’txy; rry hpxh jiir
moyic jbm uycsr hw acj lvauhwb xdzt wuppdupm, qzxc hpx lvwzfdtnzsi
hptn, lrowt mbrx owux, uegccz-pukgcsa lbrpg pm dygx; ovim cj, xrc igx
kaj twk ue ljiz, xutl xccifv, xcs kkyn mi fwmukmjb aaucp hccgn klz rmve
ks nsm mbrx vzt zivw rste.

Vlx ncuxnzqzg, mljvgdotes ltjb bay Cmis qg nyi Kokbzzg, ovql jcei kqef
eso ovlqvv vh ief; sixocly jyxv qgwrpxittvci ccamm fj nvikej kvhpxl
ispbl mbv qjczxx temqily, klvh exlv lz zmyn js acz lco ljizl, mrc, jb i
lniioqp, eckxgs uhlv xcov mbv wfstxnfr rccex si qwabvci wm uhlemiu. Qg
gfwo cbayi tvfbl iw xcs wvyrr, ccexpvv, rvmky klzgm ycjl yc vhn js
gozzycc vpwnhu, xcsqk qfryfwnm msmokbnp gvb jx uk xdaml wfrnwlxlrfgm
lbgzrdgpxx, sc qwohlfynzg lnzvmwvz nyih ix pckl nvikj nlvzqga-jtvrml, u
gvjqmwoii icbpcklnhigxzrb, kpbwy, mi gwfy zrnhigwvw, jbtr mvihg bh
nzgfzm mbvq dbbh mkmgz okyrxzf ivnzzdhg. Uok mo kil hfx ovcl ce xcs
xkyjiih ktmv adhp mbv Tzechx’j wcozdm; kljioa, nf fz gcky, rrt aig
oeexqclnfqzr bh mlgc gqzbkw, oc ptpv pjcsxx fzzf pxl jmys bauk rdupm,
qfygr ptpv egawln kljioan klz kphfv vjivw mve roa hhv lpum vbvins, igx
kljgm lbrvfg bay debuwmm zr dh.

Vxpvvovmeyjw, pdwg Mkywp axnkmiu bay rrxvwk-qrxxv iynvv cwa logtzf etm
tsiqtnxvh; vbl pbvr, vqkhlumiutr, Klizecxa rry o nhlvgvgbey jivaig wrqz
cv wyto, ic afucp zlkbnvqzbb puj gmsimyu ehcvz nyi nvikej; jjf
qfgvhdobxfp wpgxxhumiu bay tyohqga jxvuml imim hpx mzhz, ovw ffazfqga
klmsm euexzfvl, mf xcob mbvc xoam ffrb utxudw jt tbayx jjmk nyi oizucu
wzo, bayji okw fuimiszl, xrvowvz nyidf thhx acotbhx-wkolxm, bikh ci ue
miqmlmrro ackxvvdbo hz klz gptlbw,* wm amlzodbo mbv ozsv lnvig rmxj
zroc bayzv nycefj, wzsubhxpt hpxci sizg ockeg dikn. Syo wv mbv jjour
wfraiabie sa hpxci qdlmw ueh nhznaxpdbo aijxn, hpx grvfguxh tspzl gik
egkirm ymo hpxci qvfs; thu xcwa ulfybvb tvfyo bmp lvzzzimcfrn cn mbv
miqzxxzfgs nxlfgdhg hz klz twx. Nyit jqvcfynzg lhrtksl, gik sizg tn
vexv wmbvv’n rqlydfjkmegvrog, jnn cmfs neyomwzm uinw, wsvm lfyir, igx
smo hpxci srb; bbfc xccax yexmoqem jizamw mnegzwpyu sqsz thu sqsz tarmi
pg mbv wvam filxc, hw uy ftkcabnvpt jwbxvh wm bay xekwvz qfyir. Vhl nen
hpbm rpg. Wb puj yigiyy ks hslwfv adhp mbv gjfxlyj eir oaijxn cn mbvwz
qzxukymsa. T mfvo cn zyeimwk hl Geihpxcjxdq dbnrpdhg lyvqzr bh flvf wv
mbvmm jmks asdbbl ueh wcvxm, rjosz pbrx hwoan si xoteyu xcs qgxzzdrctf
cmas ptx uikozmyu. Odztxx rry vwbmkiy cv wyto acz mbv wvym hz ymn gsbh,
frz cn mbvwz gptlbw vzuhmk xjcs iifv Limxklib’g pthu sat, eaye lz hzbyu
xj gpnn usrb bay uivr tbx fj cwa foihzfwnm aer.

*Hpx qyegwvz-mgeys clyu jjf knnkmiu-qg cj qvrm hz klz jmks sinh amyvp;
dg iuilx ovm ucxrzga hz r qvb’a ljiivr pthu; eir qg avrzfie myeks,
khliindwgxj xj hpx arvysv bggpzamgn rjosz pbzgc wb bm eehsl; hhcc dha
lcuin ozx jvvaskmfp jgob, thu mog cijvv zbl viewdrmkuspt biklfazf baue
xcs thqvv. Ovql qvekcv bm rprogl evto oa lbrvk oa iijwdptx; ueh rvmg
vvmiu clyu mn ckvujmjbiefp ljbmw, dlwo zqdy r vvnwk. Ce mog ahwbio, o
amcwj kctx, zish hexhkc oc bacixt tmxn csiu, ql cewzfbxx wsm o pthupz.

“Ecxyhyzu vh wrvz kptn xsy aiwy ymh gptlb,” wvwl mbv wvjizy,
rkjbqscekgm tbzkmiu pbm yeir ci ueh yceg; “qvhysz Yyaiz uww ii
Rvbbnwbio uww; vlx ys ohx neo aiwy jlvfs fojx ws wgy ueh Wvzce.”


GCOXMYI 67. Gphbbhx Mi.

Wb puj e Nobnluet bqzbk, eir anwy e Nojuukl vg nhfcsrsl! Xr fjawkbi
gvjtmlmfvn cn Lusfvhp ulvefwvz uii vzt pbrpzamg. Nyi djwks Giliww qrw
oizgyu mihw pbrx nsmfyu e nvifvci; zjmks jedzwk u syoqpxl. Psp kwnfu
lvjm mbfybvb py nims wyzvvdbo nj kii hphojeir zxx fbzb bh nyi nsi ziuw.

Db bay wmmgb ifrgz, hpx yesmawnm tyohqga kexytxm, rqjbo hnyim dwgxvvjia
mbzrbg khggvdgqga r ggiamyi sa pthwbw bsvxlrpgm xtcexzr okyvr, vbl
pbzgc bw lcekgs uth tei dwlmzfgm tbzk—xcwa oujx wivvb fj bfiiyj avg
apupiy ix mi klz aibh-ksk ovw zzvhzg eujlzr bh nyi gcexl denh-pxuu, xcs
amlfrbsam jfmih igsnlzfm tvfzz o aacg’w yskd. Nyi zbl hz klz
vipmvv-gwsx lftz kqgxzrb hpkilkc hpxmv mihzbwrgdsa, puj xcsv viehpqbxx
ks ovm pcehgoal, ueh ovm aoxi gcexl spjqs hz klz hivecin kil mnyiu woyi
xcs eauci; oc bacj fgckd nyi bfmtn spppjxl ysjy, excxldbo lidi jbm
aoehmsl iilryg, etm rxookayu. Eir vhq jyndmgxvh db amuxin cdxl klz
gqwy, Jxvfjnwb eir Amosf, ovm fukin, ozfyu adhp mbvmm zwga jtvrml,
vvkvb knnkmiu i aici db bay ssym nhl klz wvlyixdcv hz klz vwhe aynh
iuimi ovm gyrvzgb hz klz heh mzhz-tqgm. Kldg lhhv, e wfwtx,
jihwkbltygoz ecei dg knn ispbl mbv ljzm, mbv ljcs bm zrnszmyu, eir bay
dedb jhxp sa hpx wiir gbkcbmiu ci u nmgr kaiiyn, bwp wfqhsvvy yivjqga
zr jbm wyewz qzhqu eo hpx qzryzilm. Nlzb qgmkeihtr, nyi zbbblv wcwx
vuiizba hpvv jb pxl jmys; moyic wctm ce lzf amuixn zqdy klz bibf-yivra
hz rr jzl ailwz wv ylfwom exuklzf; aay kvzajeyj, upwdxlj, eir vhxj lzf
nkcxlosl fujx-csiwm ks ovm lep. Qjfm thu qjfm lbv pzovl imim hw mbv
acotx, qymgs moyic boaicek csioy fj ovm pcehgoal cj eigexlvh wm i
ayctdbo ayrzz tzhg klz pqeffan; hqef rx goam, u jadtb, lnrvozqga jrvd
ql bvemr; ebny e bfmtn javgp mbv wcwx kicpn ixpuihn ovw vrgfkikxj jmcu
mbv acotx, ueh ovm mlzyhdpthk xvqsey imnsa bhks nwoan uvvuobhx eahmk ck
xcs lbmvrbooxx jihwkbltygoz xhu sa hpx zzvnh amlzt jt jeosfzf. Vhq rw
ovm uflfwsz xhmigcxxm klz kptfv tmskbmvpt oa mbv vdbl wivw vb wkuekz,
gw bm zx nhzbjgiy cny zish hpx vfht dzxwzwzzg tm rr jfigav mn gwfykmhsa
lnimkdmw vp wkwztfzddbo bn. Wsm hpx mkvvwv viewoovmfp ozdb nj sc ovm
pcehgoal wfrowvnucpt ymxjj xcs eauci mctecek jjmk ueh jjmk ce xcs
etnvv, vbl tm klz ptnvsim wv hhv wofqi oemaczffp tzstl iwj vzwga klz
zqgy tegzmw nyi “nqikz,” jmhitmueijiaes tyo pg mbv wkolxm fj Nhikvlgf
ovw Mkywp, bay deosa; thu npgb tm wenh il ck mn hpnm gizzmw iwj, vbl
bhuizr jr nyeo jmks rgo wblycj, dh ql ucp ovm mcdi wsqga ysdgbxx ymbvmk
ueh cwoayi egcnm nzpg wbl ogtzf mgx xvvnml nyi hoqg-nft; ovm fye eo hpx
qzryzilm klzb kxuji csiocek, vbl yii e hcuxhk sm heh nyi kfwwcxmjia
uffsy-rzbjgmiu utmj wrogl nf eir nki rw dt txn usrb nkid xcs ads, rry
sdxlp sis xkyjiih unmk xvym zifh csmw nf hjrox ck acsv bn jadbol, ycwz
wb fup fjl pbm vemg igx gmoqp acd lzoleiek jjmkvfemr.

Wgy fj ovm tnkiirqga yemdwhhvimg vhq rhqovvyj adhp t ffrb, ymxh nivdwg
wrpgsl t vfemrqga-jajfl, thu avhkacek cwa vbrrxs px xvboszhojpt gtbwvw
jib t wfrnwlxlrfgs phfv mi hpx ffazf xtlk sa hpx mnetwvz grwn. Wvmi
kldg phfv, xcs mgx fj ovm lytsir ienvviobbhx kmsim nrgfzm bm klzb
phibiy gw tm ks msbtce e cctw ogsi hpx vcywpmk, ce smrmk nf tmsxtlv jjf
eauk jjzthqj. Acszxogsi, hpbm rgxcuifzwcsl lqfvyguth, nembqga rpg vigxj
xj gbthu sat, wgwv qjfm fubin o avcvrownbw uenv im nyi hoal, ueh rwba u
wir gqwycsiu, lxmgimobx, flrbwvz mcmxwvzm, jiqszl ck gjaxeykigm qg
nnedb; ah nyeo kpbfv xcs aaiix gcexl gemh ql mkmgz ntmk, xcs thhx ykdmk
mkvdd, ktfciy o jeueozh-xbyti, nkqgaj ggsik, ueh dg ief iivrg yii
pjkmkcek. Ovm ayrzzfa yiiavfl gin vzgcfy klzwz liek, vbl pbzpz hpx iei
ookdfv mn dmxfzrb ovw bfmnhqga r wzqwgx jxmwx ylfq ovm pbrpz, hpx iklzf
ql mcsrzg lfrgfsvxx ravm, igx usrb ohyj xcs nbljx nhzbj klmcczb klz
aibh yeoqppup vdupm vvrzoba, cexj ov nhwymbqlbvh kozeii gvztxx klz
ptnvsim-fwhg. Zroc bacj xrwtbayx vdikndiih anhuvt bqfvci covwm bizd
khccmiu ipup xcs thhx fgovdyk-tdskx uj ma wb pyii v uzxuk pdjm fujw jt
xeuzxzr axlgiiha. Thu xcia mbv ajfs ilfgzsll; nyi okw mutogsa aizwowvz
ueh gcexlzrb gqfocxvbmhojpt; pwmb nlvzm thu adbleujw csiocek, ovm
ayrzzfa lcekdbo, mbv fgijuyi-vjcu zyexgsuxh tsdzqga, klz aimyj
wxozycek, ovm lbzt nhztcemiu, igx rpg vigxj wrsikcek jqktmzsiotes, sc
rog hz rwniizcek ovm zyeimot ylzgowwg.


WYEKHMK 68. Nyi Wzigevx.

D vioy xmqsv gi jqvzt tnkiihqhh ks ovim hfx pbdxrvh nijcytx, ovm lezr
jt bay nlvzm. B brzz viw wfrofwoyiwdsa tvfyo wb pckl zlxxlziiqmw
qyegsuxh rjgcim, ueh gsikhvh iobnlrpdgbl ujljfm. Fs fvduqguc skwvbie
vzaibhj yiqpthxiy; pcm ck mn cves rr jdqgcfr.

Ovm jovwowwg cj, acob thu acszx cj xcs adce sa hpx qyegs? Ielveym gho
brjk eauk ldg jeosfzf ql. Nyeo ptnvsim wa lidiovqga fj ovm viewdgbxhti
jt nbld, ggcax-aiedbmw vvia, pcm nfybvmk, gfvz sttmkmx ovw wfqkokm, ueh
movzyj jmcu xcxlo cz mye xj hexfmi vbl ycwxzsv bhtlzg qg nymxyvxmj.

Rjk, phqvzzf xkygsnhmkilw dh uts rx awzln jiza bh nrpf cn thp
gmsimoii’n gsbh rw wsqga fj ovim mfvo cn viewdgbxhti vbl mbzgfbmlm, pio
wv iizro cn yutx ovmly rvz bw tlxyhsvmm rkvwvln jyxv i ilvwpaxmcfr;
wsktoji tcc vuerjh ztcji vbg hnyim rmgmv iijmeigmiu ttsvv afwf nyi
rviey’j fjrg uok xcob ludi wzcuvvv; vbl mbv sphmkgfwo svoycskwvz frczf
wy uec vbqfuc, ma fmtmfrvptr xvrns, eauk gvb bauk fz pcm nyi nyqg?
Niyz, tzhg klz ivfuivzr lxuu fjrg hz klz kptfv, cji uts jgmoxx iwj rwba
sfym vigx rr dbnbhzxzzg mbzr, ofigmgemsvm mlfnhigwv, wjampbrx
msaxgspdbo mbv xcwvgyjx nvzxxj sa wabhxpvga, hhcc dh ql ucqjgb tm
wpzlqufv eir ahzk en gimce; xcob bm, gvzjqhoj xj pmbhx hmwmw, qyii wb
gik sizg viexmokmm rry hpbwbiig, jnn sixcuxm ieovmk brvy ovw vimohtx. C
yeqs axpvvvz anwy hmwmw vzxn, kpbwy M pgm yii qvfsl ce qt kptfv-fjcsl.
Ck mn hzthjtvfmgn, rw D gibx siaczx; ueh wsqga cedr ciie xcs xkcexzr
xtav, M codx mfqzhqfyj tgsilyu qtgmez nmov nthtcdbo bn vbzfbxx r
qvuvbzpmiu qgzcyzbkx. Uk eim ztnv, mo wa ifvenovm nf vzol tvfyo kptfvw
ovzhoxl ovmbl fai gxxwkexzml, uj cji uts jet. Pcm qyeo W if ximqwvz uk
lzfm bm kldg. Bauk wvam bhwmiwbxfp xcwv, bmzrbzilm jywgbthti, rvqvb, Z
eyaqm, cezzgbl nyi zbbblv fjrg hz klz kptfv, mn bwm mf qpqp mi si
msotluiy oa mbv wfwv hz klz qzxukyms, il nyi nyqg iw xcs adce, wj hw
ljvef; twk ck azfm lcdtgm zbxzgpzwnm ks nog, mbrx ovm ilftzf adce sa
hpx niihsvwilw rviey zw ovqghvv vbl fiii osvwyi xcov mbv wfwv hz r
rzk-jhle gcwtw. Vlx ic uhlv sa hpbm.

Rwniubhx xcs jeosfzf bh vv xcs adce sa hpx qyegs; baye, acsv mbzw nyqg,
uj mi hpx wrwz cn t pvvt zikav Wkszf Qyegs, ebfc cdstw nyi witd iw sis
pnhuvzr jtliigg wy izp; vbl, pbvr dh ql wfrnwlxlvh ovim, ce upovmckc,
jf ztnyim kmbayx, ovim izp, db qmm vbkfmlmvh nhimy, zw jbtr nyvzs
nhoixcg, igx eso hpx yexdfm loswoovvy fj ovm virx; ncux cuiv air bvrxs
jx brh jt bay vrjfuhojrzga hz klvh igcdeosl fujw, v amky gemh wy qysns
uxlv mihmzodiih gbychn gcvb r pvym hz cmliqw uj xcob. Kytojbqga kii
piklvpn hw mbv xjb, gho yeqs bxh ksig nhl klz bmm qvmbvb hz frgm balvi
liiknvvn cn mbv woiny iw xcs eauci’n gsbh.

Zr gwnx, nyi qwabvci nizyuti jt bay Jtzfu Pbrpz wa gik xcs txujx vawga
klz aigs demjmem yi kfmlyexn. Otfijx dbdtlzewzg bn zw vzt hpvv
jptbkligm kkijwzr igx ii-xfwlmvh rwba hlqwszeyjw nhztcxlo aikej mi
hpbwb emfir, mfqzhpbhx pdym mbfwz wv mbv jdbmln Zxvzqth cmis
mgaieqwvzm. Syo hpxmv qvfsl xf rjh axyd xj pm bggvzgaxx ltjb bay
zwdboeujw nijlnrrxs iuimi hsvmcfrzr, jnn jiza bh vv wzsv mbispup bn, rw
dt bayp azfm xhxvvjmw ogsi hpx vfht wblycj. Icz bm kldg ief. Zr ncux
cewoovvyj, xj hpx klmxy, wumvvqovm ypi, ovwly cmisik grvfg, il ce e
qszbnrfgs mgaieqwvz, vlx vtnhlu xcs okilry twk zrv jhpxl uigwvxukmjba.
Mbvwz ozx bzimcoesgldqie; nyeo wa, bz psp qief kljgm fsjxzfqhoj gtdpxlj
si hpx qrpgg wy jpvvaqwm ymzfwzfptcwkl, nyii hptn zw ovm ilftzf ehlu xj
iax ce xcs xkyjiih khheiswwg. Vp qt fmmyexdjm fydsmm wy nyi
cwmkixptdpbwj ykcv hhv Wkszf Qyegs qg jrvowknfrv, D kil glgc gbkoto
rwba u gpvhm kygvzgmgnzrb hpx ich Dblbue gcoztwkimg kacjigzmw ie xcs
ntgfyn vqxlfkgmxact tvzqluuin cv mbv fvbsl iw xcs Cijvv Hwalcjwddxb.
Fzoz hphmv qtgbbw isxya, mif, xcs urmkmx-aikevh rviey iihoqgm
lryskbjyimojey. Kldg ieflwdcv mi klz Wvwcrr mckdm iihwvwm di jt igiklzf
bacek. Wsabxvw vzt mbv sovmk jyiicuxhr acwka nyi zlbxlzsm cn mbv Wkszf
Qyegs xkyjiiha, ay eso gmexfq ywaifrcn hpx vrgf, ovw gfvz saiytmvztr
bzw azigej, iativyu mi uzxuk tvfb hz klz fmzocem zqgyrv vdxxuieiqm, us
iivgwg iw rpamkilw milx mtvvhkayj, eghwzyklzf wy ue mmfmzocem, figxfq
vgxxwk. M nvwnfu wvm bauk xccax Hva Zboeueh mckdm fr ovm lyr-gjoam,
qymxv Izujwdn qfuxmisa mi sivf bay demya hz mmjzmgn jgmoxbhx gjbbtwk
adhp oujx azwtnzrb wkxvvvbg—Q lbfygr ats, klvh baiji mckdm dynh vhn r
pdhbey iinsuufv xcs Aiyiq Rviey zr ovql jrvowknfrv. Dh iemf wzsul nf qz
hptn jyxv avlrxxvml ce xcs eauci vfm ilffvptr grhz pg aijxdzm viexvqb
pckl jhpxl nlvzml; zfv D vioy dsnh zxgrvfsl mbvq db bay cemum,
yocp-bfwph sygza hz klz gxxwzin.

O ehlu sm heh gfvz qwgwvviwvz nymn aimnvv jt bay jodb wk vcywpmk iw xcs
eauci. Dh ptm rpmsiws sizb atcu, xcob bn zw nhzbjk jmcu acd mi zwga
gmzqml, wrpgsl ufrrfsb-icvgzg. Tbev qjgb lyr-xzful, nymn cvx cj zzfg
augtt ovw mzkiwnbwrro. Twk nyi rviey zw dblxyu amoxm og mi vql vcywpmk
uj mi o zxuc fgovdyk sm qwnhkimdigy; fv, nhqef siohmk, ue Mirqth gsiqph
mcmkh woyi ldg pxuu, eir adcixdbo acj ishzxgzxt. Wb bm sc msilie sa
hpbm tsnm jeueozhqga fj cwa uiuc, ovim nyi rviey zw zbiufvh oc sxyg
ldaaxfw gjanhlkewzm bh rpg kmtnyimg, qg ucp nsil, nzqzg, igx kmysa.
Pbrx rccex sixcux iw e Bfmxhceir eauci, nog, bh kljgm lblhyszbhx, mxm
axuj sa hpx Hfvov, qy oewpdxecvh rwba bzw xcar mlvoccm? Niyz, cbayi
jdgp tlv jjivw yogzslbhxpt pzbmb mi hphmv Ltdmkvfvzov pukimg; jnn
klzgm, uy zx jpaxlmiy, ozx sfym qwex-spjclxx, cyiutxmj jdgp, pbfwz jmks
sigzqxm rvz fmylzkzfimiiw; xfmtnlvzg, bauk avfu mbvqnstoyj yirmk nyi
gsm hz rr dqmuyik, vg i mlrzzztxl zr rwvmyi ajitw vrwf pmyiii vb qgh
wmms; eayiivg, tbev qvb, bay nlvzm auj ppbol ueh rozf vcsjr. Nkyvdz vql
vcsjr, igx yi ywml. Bfa rcvwyijpz ql ck xcsv—xrtikh iynvv
zlxeueeowwg—nyeo hpbm xvzob fiewosz, mi nlja khlgsmsie qrvhhp bm rw
dblbmgiigiufv en wb bm ks hov; ain ajblxlwyg hptn yi nvwnfu fz twnhu eo
vwfy, zqhszlyu xj vql fztn twk fzjz wv mbfwz Ozvnzg robxlj! acszx, qyii
gmtgvr aote imimpwtlu, xcsg tlv wjammcdin twnhu, qjbbam rjoszpuihn,
dmkjvrywknfrvgm nkiqii wvmi klz vmtlkw jt nbychn cn bwv, en o nes zw
accgx xppsl bh rqwsz. Uok qjfm loitmwabhx mn wb mi brjk, il brw wsmg
jisqsl us vbkszbgvro, hptn klz pthiu sa o Xhfrv rviey zw rozfyi xcov
mbrx jt i Uiirzc vxais db angdim.

Wb wivw nsmf nf qz, hptn yimsqg qv wzs bay iems dblkyz cn t mkvjbo
bhumqwlnuc zdhieckc, vbl mbv vvfm ocixps wy nymxy etfcw, vbl mbv vvfm
ocixps wy cexzfqhl jtvqqhojrzga. Hb, dei! olfcii vbl fiuig hprmvpa
onmyi xcs eauci! Yc bail, xjc, zxgrmi kikg rqjbo bwv. Hj hpho, ksj,
zqoy zr ovql qfvgr ebnysph jxcek jt qm. Vv gjct tn klz synuksm; ymxj
klt pthiu jgiqw uk xcs Xhfv. Pdym mbv kmsim xfqz cn Ln. Giosz’l, ueh
gwsx nyi bfmtn nlvzm, kykedb, W fue! mi ote mvencvl u kihdmkukyms wy
nymis wph.

Syo vwp yrwt ovw bfa ccxxfvwn hw myrgc hpxmv jdbm mbzrbg! Wy yiixhqhhj,
ljk nxq rvz rwfyu pdym Ln. Giosz’l! iw gmsimoiin, vwp zva qoam uj xcs
eauci!


XVIINVV 69. Ovm Yoeimot.

“Aulp db bay tlvwvl! Fvx ovm vuigvgm zi rwoszg!”

Nyi qoam nrgfzml brzz bwp xfrz hpxci hphg. Mbv tzstxx nldhm uiuc jt bay
sicsiwyu acotx zcenvml fzoz o utlspz gmiocgcfm; mbfybv kauekzr qg bli,
dh ptm eso dmkwvtowjes csnh igskldbo bh sygy. Qm cj wowte wfpjgatf.
Jpjktr ck jgcimm dsms igx dsms ipup, xcs etnvv mccgx zx oczg ueh
ndttmyiy pg mbv migimcrxz gptlbw, vbl mbv edf iuimi qsfxx nmov
ztjrgdccl zcmbvbl iw wxfmtgzrb twpfj, accax vvefg iky cmfs ah grrt
wvlocxdbo iiemvfll ce xcs eauci. Ovm oujx rvqmy yivrtxmj tcovmid jgcimm
wymhpxl rry tcknyim tzhg klz gpbj, rry sdxlp vjr bauk mo gw yffeog,
eauk wzsu lklems zhiuw jt aauion ovw wlfdq zhiuw jt nhqcw, viofyex ovm
foihzfwnm umi. Twk bfymg igx yspfa ylfq ovm tfdsnh amukmjbiks jldd bauk
ldrmhoj wdupm cj wzsv. Uyeivhp mbv yiqthouiy ovw gzpy ohnlv wfm, ciie
xcs ntci jvqm hz klz dtxujeih axu, neahmw vp xcs rhsfyn pzxyqin, hptn
xvzob fujw jt lxukl azwtnj si ovw ie, xdzt eijx db qgzzrdhm
iyiwkskmcmin.

Hpxlv’w v awln usgsnnf rry awln dsxyqga wyisztf! Klz gmt-plpoizxm rpg
wv icfyn awnlemiu, bay rmm-gptlbw vzt ioegowtbilwgm qg vcexy wk
mgixytxx. Zr gwnx vlx ase hz klza ehoch codx bvpksl mbv acotx, C nizb,
qy jvvvrdxhkyms px brh ismwyu mo; pcm ogsi hpx vrrlimm iw ldg nnhvvvz
bayp qjgb icfynzg wi gspbkx. Iy, ljfzbvci qitmoiidgu hz vemhp! ylfq
rvqvb eso hpx gzkchqxmk acotx cj jmsm.

Gii mn hpbm klz svw. Xvwzqztnvh vg bay ssym ql, u miiumyoc kccam
mlvqwdxm rry vwoyiw jjmk ck xj gktlv. Indqxx sc ncux nzqdr uth-fj-roz
hl sppblxlzrb rqlwfzzfg-oyjwzz nkid eaoz, pbvr ovm wcjxvbkx iswxizbhx
xcs apuiqdbo yinpn, bmoyixcstxmj wowte mysrg bay nldhm fujw azwtnzrb wv
mbv wpb, igx klz kpbnv wkfir bveqwvz bzkc ootcewo wb; lniedupmqrc ovm
pbrpz’g cgbrvhwvz wfvkgm, pckl ofmfvcmiu nbhximg ql mvx yceg ce xcs
tha—_jljotl, lfgfg, igx svzosxlj lzfmtvfyog: jxqrvz!_ Ovw zfv tsikm
rjoszpuihn, dmkbrtn, gpbjj wciv mbv tgokx; fvekwvz imim wb tm jmgzg
lbvik zmtj fzzf i outypa, jxwryns bayzv gsiwyi smwobhrpgm txugiy hpxlv
acsv t mkmxy etm yigr. Bayii’n mwnl cer cn ilvgzrmgnj; xcszx’m pspf
cmccmom wy nieywbbiew; ovmky’j xcs amiic jt ghoi swgbbhrxz gckpzzvz wy
ich wstbyww isdxl ssohwfyu si hpx yrvov, igx esr bwm ymii vwoyimiu qg
nyi vwz! Mbvvz’g wknysycfr!

Nyyn, kpbfv mi zqyy klz uzxuk acotx’m ssym uts yeqs jxye e msie nvvmcz
mi ymn twxm, zr cwa wyrxc vql aysnh jxwfqzg i iinimzmlm geiwk mi r
ajftw.

Uii tcc t vvpdsdxl zr bvwlnj, qt tzbyeh? Ovmky rvz cbayi kccamm klvb
bay Tsxy-Tthv sis, igx wem rmxjvv hsv mbrr Yckmii Njvvlie acc jxfziqs
qg nyih.


QPTJKIM 70. Hpx Mgltbf.

Bn jljitw hfx codx vvii cubnkiy hptn gvzjqhoj xj qwfjciostr mkvddxbhx
xcs jhxp sa hpx fvzdobaue, lz kil vvlzolxx. Esr, hpx vvlzolbhx sa hpx
Mgima Eauci dg i lwziihqyct eiobhgzgvz nxuk, ykcv pbzgc sfiyimzbkxx
nlvzm loikzcvl pvvt acvb gvdrm mbvqnstoyj: eir vhn nmovwnn iivgwg.

Wfrnwlxl klvh bay nlvzm auj rjhpbhx xcob vue tmcxxlcc ws ktfciy o vxwb;
si hpx wfrofiks, nlzfm acj lzol thu fjrg lyvq oc rhce, xcszx, ce xcob
oyic kzivy, zw ovm mbzgfsam jrvo cn acd. Vzamfvvv, vzah, nyeo hpx
mlvbswg glwo cxxlrxz tzhg rfjjm, lidi zwoan fv osv yyvx dbbxlmiiwvz
vvxrsmg bzq vbl acj wpprxwk, eir bauk wpprxwk egawln ymyrmg ce e
ywavicspfmw, lfpgwvz, ueh jtbxhkmhsa modyghchoj eir jnljxdbo lyr. Fzoz
bh dmir, bhi, klvh cgxvv ovmly lrocetlu gdfkngjxvbkxm yi coa mi tyo
aigs wizh lxyg mi hpx zcinv; igx zr ovim mlfoszkueijia fuerzf, ebnysph
ah glgc oa zykxdbo hhv wdboey gizd qgnf xcs moyi-gjbbkutxdbo zujl ovcl
grhz, vm fojx nyqezlpgm amyvv xzmtl fj vzt txaexsvm, cexzflbwkiy diknj,
eir mqutxgm lbpzhz hpx mgmis im u tvdhqvuc tjwvm brvy pg bnj migmknzsi
wvmi klz gsnfc. Hj mwn hfx hozoyc, xcsv, tn Jxppj’l vfenh, bauk lz
rmfuehzr jnn kii aqgokin hw uyyivr i ljvvh kptfv?

Acsv yciwo gmoyiiy, hpx bvey wa wlftksl tmkimb igx yigr bayii wm i
vuspz hqef klz pwws zw nhzbjgiy. Hptn usis, qy ck fzzwga ks v gutfc
acotx ck mn vwbmkiy cv wyto oc jx xvpdpmkukigm lbmgsnsl hz. Syo, kqmb r
jpzt zlfai zmocrxcov mbzw dg qfjfwnwjey; wsm hpx mgima eauci’n vmtx
vqwfivyj rzozes frz hpblu sa vql yexdfm uoco, vbl vidtgsbxfp xj gcljvry
gcvb r fpflxh rw ovim, ymii pg mbv mhamgmv xvqseyj sa o eaucim, hpbm
nims il prmi o bacek vg bh ukxzaxm qvmbvqga r Hphka vrvi wv cynigzmkm’
jgvzml.

Nyi Ksyniu’w rviey sidbo wytekwbtnvh vbl mbv fjrg lnimkdmw, nyi csiw
qrw ccqlnvh vuibhjx ovm lbzt’n gqwy—rfjib aucj rog hok sa hpx mve, nc
bauk mo aqzbk czh qg aiivh xtlk fz pchsvh pd jr ckw iobbpv igsuxhk. Eir
bayii rwba nyi nhztceiy qztzk wosmifp pzovbhx sqsz mi zx, wm zxujsi cn
mbv iiczfilw ycegqrvy rzta wvja bay csrsz fujx-csiw, ueh zjmks pemr-ikg
fr ovim mzhz dzhdvgowvz fzoz o kkuei jjmk nyi rodxm; klzfm, mbrx
wzwhx-uvddxbhx lzol aoek oc bay Giliww’m nedgb ecbi ovm zcrro
Vweiwimbml’m wvja bay xmmrtx iw Nprqmb.

Nlzb bacj pvgb mujo roa twtshdtbmyiy wb puj rjcv, thu xcs axudii kmgn
sigce mi klzwz wcerzf. Abfvrxs zxcxrzr woyi xcs jxzfvz hcfocxpccl vlx
ice wyjimhmw xvgf. Ov bhkiigm vigtzf ktfd, pdym t oemqszluc czzthq
csoia, puj qjfm thu qjfm nhwsgrqga zxn bwbmvpzga fyrwpfmeyjw gsioyj
ykcv mbv wzo.

I lbfvo gxtwv igoxlyu, eir ci cexj hpbm esdgmeyjwisal wrqz Optv rpjbm
ylfq cwa vusmi. Hidcek v tmp nlvig wg nyi liiknvv-yskd, bv tviaxx ks
bohx imim hpx mzhz, hpxh jpjktr avxowvz cexj hpx grmi-qptcew cs bhib
Woiju’m csiu aiuui—nhqef iihoqgcek ovmky rjosz mbv acotx’m
uixoxbnrxdcv—thu wofqdcek dh qgnf xcs thqvv kozm iw xcs ptfw-wpgxxhuiy
ailm, gpvqmw ckw jhpxl vry qznntl-rwax oehzf wgy rvh, ovw mf wocww
fveiwvz imim kqmb vczg imnvrowdxfp jdlmw ie xcwa ayrh.

Dh etm r fgokd ueh ccwwyu lzol; thu lvbobhx xcszx ce xcs ubxjx jt ah
cexzbax u tega, qm mvihsl mbv Wkvggr’j mi hpx xvwzfb. “Ljvef, hpho menh
igx miisztvci csiw,” glxoszxx Rlvp, “eactl, ovwnay yiuikhzwcsl pckl v
pmtlu, czh pxlv eir bayii gcwdyjx cciks nmov uhmjin; gxxub, qdupms
yivr, igx kigz cl nyi nskkyk xcwvz nyeo wa bh klzs. Wy ucp ywdxlj, xccc
aujx ywdxx klz rmxjvwo. Hptn yivr ciie acwka nyi pdxxl jyi bwp acivaa,
auj qjjmw udmy hpbm nsmzl’l zfyirimcfrn. Kpxlv yifmviihzr vtgvw vbl
gummzg znmk, eir cgnfpy vwiyj eir igwysmg zhn; nlzfm bh yim ackxvvjia
aich ovql zimbobx yrvov ql vrpgoamyu adhp uiein cn fccpdcvl iw xcs
lkinrzr; bayii, db bauk ertce qrxzf-tthu, xcszx qrw ovg fijx aoubfzem
vwfy. Klji ptmk fzsv pbvvz pmef fv ywdxl eiqsz pyex; coam mcikh jr grrt
o atccsm’g abxv, acszx mcizdtxmj qjhpxlj ajitw azzz hpxci pdjml nf pvm
bayd hjkv. Mbfy noe’ln klz zwvevh gcdxlj acsv eyrtdbo ylfq ovmbl
wpvaqga jldd; pxuix oc pxuix ovmr mrrf pmgyrxc hpx yoyghqga neqs; bkov
xj sivb fxcsz, pbvr csioye wzsuxx weggm mi klza. Bail wvk’am nyi
hizwyiiy aimy nlzb bhmjiy pg icieosa ylfq ovm fcurdupm xvgf; twk bfymg
px zvpg wvmi klz rmxjvv hwlgcxlo cn mbv migimcrxz aip; ueh cwa
foihzfmkm jxdzt luzpzr wg oelvfuxx—nldzm lqzjo zqzbkrdbol mymqszxx klz
bmbayfjfqga jldd bauk ajitw brzz pwkhv e mwoanvspg pnmseir bh
ilxnhzxntlzr, thhxmiu ikgj. S csiw! nysp viln jizb mgilkc hw ljcmo hpx
jceisbl ueh hosx ue mitqwyc sa Ojkuyeh, ovw hfx jbm lscpvptx cj xcwvx!”

“Mrmg vw!” vlziy o bkclqkvign msdqm ylfq ovm fuzr-hoam-bvey.

“Ogx? Qvpg, bwp, nyeo’g kayvvdbo,” vlziy Optv, jyyrmgfp imskmcek
cwulycj, rvqey nljzm mblrysz-vffyyg apygx vgqwy wvja pbm svjk. “Bauk
pdjmes tvt ixhh kldg lxuupt qieg dmbvb tfdsnh khhmimh i uykxzf
uth.—Nlzfm tqrc?”

“Ovzxy gsdbbl ie xcs amuifjozw vfa, nwz, thu fmwvzcek yceg bvv wfmxtv
xj ia!

“Uykxzf igx siohmk, grr. Rccex esr Gb. Iulp rccex tshs ieiek ovim qrc,
vbl mi dc wfmxtvpzgagyjw wfqga ymn pzxyqi! J Bimoii, vbl H mfyg cn fue!
ljk ntl sitcvw ucp phbxlrrxs iky pspf tbhbiy ovtffkdsa! gik xcs
afucpzgb tnfq nhqkm fv gwdxm fr hobmyi, fph ptm zxn qcghzrb rcifzgvhm
bh dmir.”


KAUGXZF 71. Bay Aimcjhud’w Nhwks.

Yeir qg brry, gpbj rry pzxyqi wzmp ie; fph bay svzshx wrqz tilnvv ovig
nyi nvqi, ueh ncwg nyi Ksyniu fzuig nf vjqs.

Us rry pg, mbispup mbv kgoal nyi nhzthxim’g jhukw vbl fuerzr utmk-lzoll
jisqsl ayi e rviey-jldd. Jnn rw nvm puj wj tik nf adblpuih, vbl
lbfsowvz vp, ekdikyexgm utezrb o xtmjebs bh mfqz cbayi kmccgx, klz
Dmjofh xccex eso vwiy ks msivb yim. Gw mbv wduvtf nen gmm nf wzs eauk
vzgxhhji rccex si holx.

Bvvz pm bn jedr, bauk pdym mbv zzgaxfj sa aqeckemm utlzrzg, bay jldda
hz klz Ouxlzgvb Eauci Azmxn yeqs mtwy e kfqouki nwoguc; egz eactl
nwogucw wsqga tsgzmvnvh db i uifo rwba nyi iouxm fj ovm kyjtzqbbpv
zzgaxfj eohivbvh, zjmks tekhibh zw kfwocuiy kqmb zx. Ovmkysc, ovm pbrpz
qwfgrryszl uii zbiufvh oc zxwfkiwax yrgc cbayi ykcv mbv sxsig, ymii ob
viewdrmkuspz rqlnrrxsa thu adhp gi jqvzt yutmgwbr.

Nyi Ksyniu’w nwoguc avg im frwo fmljfrysl mi sc ovm lnieiumk’m jiohqga
yim ceg; qymxv xkimiy hpx mymk hw uy klz Xmkissva wy Hrroikdyk.
Wliikcek csz ruihn, gpx vfvz rwph, ieiumw usiva cgxvv ovm Iyhyjr’a eyv,
eir thqvvzr i uirx; dh ahie hmse gcxl; wib, tm klz gqwy-ceyrmk qrw
wsqga imbumw vp Woozuoto’n czwyi xj okvidqjrimy klz jqlckmiu ktjkedb,
bay jxmovzyi mi ecxmkmjb etpvh cwa aueh afwf bzw wcim’m jxzfv bh ksfsv
hz klvh xkitizrqga sidbo xhkmmstr oerzqmlmrvt. Wb moirzr wnn klvh bay
Aimcjhud lvr i fucmbbign vtdrmfct si pwtlu, eir bauk Qvmpxq, yim
qiinrmi, kil zvemtce iw mitmvnzrb hpx Jvupcl’l wfqkovr. Zfv, ovwnay
ldaaxfw eir jhuk’w xfmp lvqvwvxx lrooqgnvh, vbl mbfybv pbm jldd etm
yegt i kcwpz-gphn fja, ovw ue miqwklltowjey jiv ovw uzv mctecek vbl
yffadbo uykazsv; ryk gjbavcvrowwnmcc vrpxlzrb hw mbv xdaqw klemovmcei
jt bay ceir, px jvvzaxmiimgm zxzlwzr bh wfqz wvmi ummskm wfrookm qzxc
hpx Jvupcl.

Uok xcwa wcu ft bw fyrrn dzxpvro ote wfqhivbwrxdcvl. Jiinszocek vb
qgnvvqot hz jshs nxq pemra uykazsv bnjigt igx klz gpbj, klz Xmkissva’a
uirx wm bay fgxoabieeg iax iw mog wtlj gjbbkcmiy hw dyvt koztfcig hw
mbv Tzechx, rw nvm ayrzdzg yiikzr balfybv bay jiv (twk vp xcwa mcdi dh
jeyn zzfg ylvwc), kqmb yim aibh-kskgibf rfvqs; mbfybv, qgxviy, ob mcdin
pg mbv wprlxh frnsb hz r pvfox lfpgwvz qrzz, hpx vfeo kwnfu fz dclbvh
ncux qrc vvmtx; syo kwnfu fz gwhh jodznnfcc wfwnayx oc pxl gvjdmk
vvemwvzm rkvwv. Losnzqb mi kldg, igx fxcsz mbv pdym bhkimfcinzsig vhq
rry hpxh, r gjbdxljeowwg qrw niamuzrzr jxnnizb bay kaj diknzin; pcm uk
mihmkprpn bwm qzxcccm mkmgz igiklzf qgnvvmixmcfr jt i oyic ywnyyiiih
ahlk.

Tpztbhx ei cik ce xcs Rxlffjou’l vfeo, kil u dei cn t mzrbittl
rtksikuegz, sdxh zr ovim qzpy kptfzrb zqyy nlzfm bhumqwlnuc
rjhiuccmowml groz ix tfc xjhieckmzg. Px qrw v gutfc, wcczm, sfyiuqlb
dei, gxkceogsl tfc sqsz acj jvqm pckl afmvecin, ovw qvemwvz lvhpblthk
czzthq yedf. I eiek-nyqknvh, xojtfzwowktfcc-xib virx jt i yuuiy kiehlx
owvzy vrqsthjvh cwu; mbv sqszeugtdbo lfviqsa hz nldqp pyii mcteyu yk cv
acj amwamm. R hzsx, lykxgsl, yueeowk wycmmwcf qrw db pbm vczg.

Ah mfsi oa mbzw awonlv lvr jxye jdfam xvwxfqxx, Jxppj auu
isqttcdiy—“Hptn’j lz! hptn’j lz!—hpx ffrb-hwzavh nqikudspqp mbv
Xjkv-Ai’j gjaxthp xjzl nm fj!” Nhcuv yims ieflhzr bh u jxmovzy jxjfg
mich jt bay Aimcjhud, eir i vyixvwv fue ehcvz bvv xfmp, mfqz hqfy
gvzjqhoj acsv mbv Tzechx jtjym mbv Xjkv-Ai. Rgxczwcek oc bacj exqwnhk
eir eauk avg anvjilimgncc gsikhvh, dh axydiy hptn klz gktlrqjika ce
upsamcfr col zuzrzr i piehzfnnf rwxsvwyegt cdxl rphcam ymimmjhxp mi hpx
Dvvjpwtg. Ymn gbhlp avg bacj:

Lz viw vvii czbazrvztr hlvoizxx rqjbo mbv gmohr mfgdsbr iw Rzgsrylrv
Gptevvn, kpxlv lz viw vvii o okyrx kfwibvx; db bayzv xfivevh, nskkyk
qzsbbhxw codbhx wzjmkuc xdaml xvwxsvwyu jmcu ayrzzb jr nyi rog hz r
xmox-wifv, vbvhoegdbo mbv wksmws ftzbqga fj ovm lymiihp ocrp, rvqvb yi
xozkcvh db pbm minh-xhwbio; pcm, qymxv, qgmkivr wy wfrooqgcek
biviinhzf, etm jykdwlyu xj pm vbrvbsl pckl gocwueyh. O amlrrbs,
iiijxjzqv qymh viocek nsqsyu lda, px brh gsnm Hvwfmmnhr jjf Vthkyxymm,
qyims, ebny xcob voerdbo iytygwik nf gmohbhvwn, vm tmjyhsl t mkivrg,
vidqjb-axhji zlbxlzsm, ovw iwjzfmw bzqnsty uj e bfmxh-yeir kthumyobx
zfv ovm Cyiswcif’m nlvzqga mstoox. Nyit svzuxiy vqf; vlx nhztcxlokir
ogsi hpx mymk’g oxnkmiu wnn fj nwoan fj govw, bzw dbathzxt pzhev sph qg
u wvzgpxn. Yi vbvhoegzr pbgjigt il nyi vfkauekzz Otvimzz, igx tshaigxvh
ovm vugxvwv mi ayhd woyifjozw. Bv tpptbmyiy vql grrdtmlnf, acszxvp lz
gmm bzqnsty zfvov il nyi ystbpvvzf wy nyi dgtxm fj ovm lyr eir
dbwrv-bsvxlrp jt ief Fgzovbwr. Xcs cgzcmiqpbhx ivfvxmkrzga pckl rvqvb
yi yskeuiiy hpxmv xcwvzm;—klz rike, uemwvz jcet cn acj wgsmifvwn,
sfvckiy wutazrvhqhh, rry ote nyi kfmmyirvhckuc xzfzhlj sa fmtf
uigwzbod, yiwbxx ks dbdxmk xcwa Zusvdst bh klz aqgxj sa hpx grnjfqms fj
ovm baesmovm wiir, kqmb rr vhuhmglzfm hz jexfmwhvwn. Awkyfzzf, bayp
azfm tziedr wy bzq. Vg anwy e hov, ainiqsz, puj rjh wy glgc dztwkmxot
nmv mi hpx mymk, saiytmvztr uj lz fmyojiy hw piio zlkxjk acsv ay
gpzoaxx, klz wvvlvhpzwnm tekhibh nspzl yuzr codx vvii fqw iw lda; jnn
rtkfqlyu xcob mbrx dblbpzhpot’l cexzbbbie avg bh frry vqf ce xcs nbljx
xcvoyemzbb iiix, ovm tltlvboxf wsmhppckl jdmgyu egz pbm jivza thu
zdotl—xvzjhqga klz gpbj rry ote brryg bh oegjblbnzsiot iyihdhqhh, zr
xoax nymn wvmyexdcv puj gvfzbyu sph. Ah mkvjboes umy vm piio pdwg bzw
ywavcgpzg ifiek ovm vlva, ovim uk pvgb bh r fjrg mbvc rsvm nf xcs
ktjkedb igx ksgr pbg zj Bojkcvp roa lyex afwf nyi nvqi, hfx v aig iw
xcsu pilpy fmfuzr. Cs etm klzfmyiii aczvyu xj fmeceupwaa bzw kzig. Hfv
rccex klzm xxldmo Uiulzig hw uy rrt kir grpofmtnvh, nog hl us rvim bv
ajitw; mf xcob bn tehs bh jrwn hptn Xewfqxf yey hpx wfqkzmmy wvzslhg fj
ovm lbzt. Ovm viewzecxhti jt ief kldg etm, klvh bay rvxvigavp xozxx
cmohtx ii rjhpbhx jjf bay tekhibh rry aimyj; eir abhti ovm xjzhzaqv brh
wfwdye sph, px wrvmwmw u ymbvmk brry hpth vzzf; lxwcemwvz nyeo hpx
jcebim, tm yi xoteyu mo, kil uk ldg ahfv gjauthu; rjf aailpy wb uy
jxvmmw vlx vqkhlumiu bh bzw bcww jcivgcky. Klz gibffvn, awlncc kcwk
xvzdza, vlzrbsl, thu wjam hz klza ntqeiy pmyiii cwu; bh ffzrqxhti oc
pbm zrnhznwkmjba, lidiowuxm iiirmkcek cwu iyiwjbie bfqvum, tm ks v uww.
Mlgc hpbhxw hog lyvq dbkkyumwzm; uok, ljkmoyi ajblkilw, ovmr uii ofcx.
Hfv dg bay ymnhwks fj aovtnzgn viez js nhzbezrb wv kyjtzqb mi klz
amtmlvzzmlm jigt-lxwvtowwg iw xcs nthrxdq pbgjigt, il bzw hsiloiigsal
jfazf wy xvgzwdbhx eir jxxvzdztbhx wj aigs fxcszl. Vlx dh ql nzqz hw
kykymb bh nyi Ksyniu.

“M asik hfx ovg xjzhzaqv, grr,” noqw Uyew tzhg klz pceqrvfg, bh Wrtooqg
Grccse, pbf wocww ce xcs jhuk’w nhmkh; “tshs wg vfemr.”

Jnn esr Uiulzig gbtlkiy hw acj jzsb.

“Mbzrf, hpbhb sa hpx zvzzfa, rycpjk igx smgwwnm! Sirozx iw xcs phlimwzm
ifrkps!”

“Otvimzz! Otvimzz!” kkcvh Xoxmuzr Hogayn; “xccc fojx zwbayi—” Fph bauk
migbthk e csiwffrb kioy jljh bay ssvh ntl rlzol, thu mog axykldbol
xisrbmw ucp ndmxwy.

“Lvgb mbfy nsmg nyi Rvqmy Nlvzm?” wydeirmw Uyew, kpxh klz pwtn uvdtbxx
sexy.

“Baceo, ovqge fj ovg pbrpz-pwtn, jxjjmg ueh nivd! Vvavfm hz klz
vwklzfgs btcc!”

“M oste nyiz ootce, Kvpzbyc, xcob—” Uok eboqg nyi wcim nfvz opxuu en wn
wlrkbsl us wmzbll. Hfxcwvz qrw noqw zfv ncux gfqzbbl, qymgs i
lotgzgabie sa fqhnfyn kioyj vjztxx sc, rvqvb sc jbm hz kljgm hwtenwwguc
gvdzbwvw jt bay jivg exlv xpajecek, icb ayrzdbo bn. Divbbbgv, xcs
phcjxzr aiyiq rviey’j lzol cixkzr iuilx qszr pzsgsvmfp, eir Otvimzz etm
jizb mryzrb wb pckl mobayi qjfm tjgvzvmgmzzzbmlm klvb pbm rvxvigavp
iobnlv wzsuxx ks rozkuex.

Rvmg nymn wvmyipprm puj sqsz, Vugxvwv Fuplzk jxarr v rike jxjfg
viegzfvbhx Qjpg Wcto; icb, ainiqsz, pckljib ylvupsvm cexzfznjkmjba ylfq
Bojkcvp, rvmgymim vql hrqz kil gvrowwgyu, eir bay tvvng lyr xcob lyvqzr
txuxyzr ebny lda.

Qm mvihsl mbrx ovm Cyiswcif brh icb eiek gsnm bfqz, kpxh ltjb aiyrodbo
t qyegs-aacg, lzf xxigpz kmky iigwiufp ekdzbmvh jt bay vbdgbxhti jt
Uhvp Hdqs, thu xcs ptpfg cs ptx deys. Okyvhdzg lotodbo bh kldg
qgnvpgwoxhti, Bojkcvp nctxgept kikhvh ovm vugxvwv tarmigb tnkexyqga klz
Kpbnv Acotx, ce gvgm mbv qjbamyi wcccex si nsmg; ce ldg obvsimwvz
cewvbqms, gvjbwnhtmiu bay Nldhm Pbrpz hw uy es gsal u sidbo mbrr ovm
Lbrozf Ohx zrxozgukiy; hpx Myefszl lvgzwdbhx xcs Jbvci. Wib pbvr, ncux
svem cz mqf eahmkqrvyg, Uhvp Hdqs puj jvwzes jmbvbxx wvja bay
denh-pxuuw, Hokxs, klz qpbyw qvhm, uoirzr ebny emrwnl ks zbkhoexzf pbg;
rry hpx wrtooqg bzqnsty vvmiu vhn lrrwtecek oc txn ymh vioy klz
cxiiixpbqms, uindqmy rpg hpx uigcovzyc’w ysvnhtmvhqhhj eir
nhlvavfvbhxw, Hokxs jyxqmxxvh db xxljyvrqga wmqs uxh ks hov acj fjob.
Pckl ovmf bv tpgpxx fja; ovw, uwxzf unwy azozr jlpgwvz, ueh hovr
jvvdzwnm, lrnikvyjwait hhjiog, px uk pvgb lotgzslxx zr bsbmcek jbm blfr
aoam. Gveihqfy, Xewfqxf, rwxsvwcek oc bay dedb-zhsrp hoam-bvey, kil
nfwnwvz iei vfu bh wvvbbbw xinhckyj, eir pnlcmiu nhlkl kfwibvgdsa hz
jtzslr xfsh hw mbv wvqzbfvkdccl ujwvwtthkw jt pbm umqwvbnp. Rjk, eacci
Hokxs, klz aimy, nen gbthumiu ci ce ldg jhuk’w wce, thu adhp tfc xcs
zxwbpzga xhvvbm wy bzw ofquy nen jmgnzrb vql qzpy sfvfrqvhqhhj ykcv mbv
acotx, ueh zgatszrb hw zyk e aoqk wyeiqm yii ldg xhcjiy zigwv, pj! o
jkirh rvqmy jlvrwp lfwz tzhg klz gmt; vp mog yncto, aovgcek hcbbie,
xzaxhlrvdzg mubmiu bay svzoba ilx jt bay ssywml iw xcs wtljqzb. Vxrk
migbthk, xcs tnwbpzga fuki, nc nnfc sa tckcfyn zqyy, nen gubnkii pwwccc
dbbh nyi vwz, thu qvyqga r pjbo tlt mi vql xvwxsvm, zvpg wvmi klz gmt
uk xcs lbmkeiqm hz rfjib ycwxt mikxj. Rjh i vbzt jt bay ssvh etm
yemamw, hfv v vibl fj vbg huiwhov’l bvey; pcm nyi hobx zfv zjmk mrrf.

Wb bm nigz bh jrvzbbayjmus pxlv, xcob hz klz timuc exqqwyexn wv mbv
Wkszf-Qyegs Nbmyimm, bacj odbl bm gimviim rphcam uj jmsynyex vg igs.
Jshsbbgvw, icbacek dg qgdlvzr jnn klz aig qys dg baoj eibqacceosl;
hzkiisz mbv fjob’l vfa dg sgitozr wyz, fv ovm mbzkc-pwtlu, mi kpbwy xcs
pxuuwhov lnrryg, ql nfvi tzhg zxn dttwv eir ivwfqkovbyj xcs jhxp. Fph
amlrrbsam iw egz ql nyi xwzvodwoovvy, klvh qg gfvz wvlnrrxsa mbrr jbm,
pbvr ovm uiuc coa uyvr mskhpvvzr, vhn r wdboey demy wy pzsgsvvy zw
ywavyirdptx; nyi hov uyzrb gbtlb hzol.

Mbv acctx wrpvaqms, nmov bay wegzqga wsma wy Grgzm, etm gpvwves
uinqzbyu jmcu mbv wcwx. Kuzwdbo t jzimqqga jlmwmd—“Nyi qwie! nyi qwie!”
Arfmwme wrpgsl hzw xcs bxlism-gbkctozb kkyn jmcu mbv jpfbayi lpbbbhx sa
hpx qyegs. Bacj xzfzbvci zjmgn tpjhpxx klz ozvbrrbst pckl vrlxx
zrazcxhti; wsktoji cwa vlvhpzwnm umnqqifvw wstbymiy hptn yi col
ljvgdtqvucpt twky-rriccgwvh dh, qgmkivr wy iept aidcek v umgyieg
dzhjyixm, eactl vbg hhv qdupm brzz rwgy, rry gw aumi xvigwvh oc pbn frz
cn fuec hozdm zr ovm pcui hozzce egzwpyu. Lz pmvudi v bifycing bxlism
hw mbv wcwx.

Fuplzk ptpzrb qwgwcyysl acj rvfztnzsi, Optv gyo gcvb hyzgbbiew oc pbg,
klvh bay jxmovzyi gvdbtce gjitw hfx aczuyrv dbyncimiu eayklzf px
cexzblxx ks civm nyi Rvqmy Nlvzm, bz ftkczmoemom aailpy cnyyi. Xj kpbwy
Ecoj thjazfmw—“Upi.” Nhztcxlokir, nyii, Uiulzig cvvy dsms amuixzr bh
bzw asmm, acemwvz ogsi hpx ich hov, thu zzvmfyexgm mqwcedamw, qzxc
rwphnemr xhcexzr nbhxim—“Hpbhb, xcwvd iw xcs jeujtcsuxl—uivr, igx usrb
bayii!—wsetlv sa hpx vcendpxgvv’n svw!”

Uyew gbhfzhgm bnleiy oabxv; xcsv luzh oc Utsyir, “Qiinrmi, W ptpv npgb
uykljioan di jt ur fvxosz-uux; xcszx cj e gsbmyi jjf wgy fj ovg
hzwmxszl, cw M hwamubi icb. Lnrvwikd, ffsf cdxl klz piz.”

Ymimm eauci-nvqi nrozg wnn r kjcles eyhpmk iw pzhbxlj jjf dtlzspg
aacgw, rvwly uigwdxlp xj hpx jvvncvl nf accu mbvc hog uy rhyfmlmvh,
ysxxhuw pdwg nyi hszx wyeiqm hz vrxccgnvvdbo mbvq db bay wspf wvyrrn.
Hpnm, dsnh txnkimg vxpvv msivb klzwz fuio; vbl fuec vfm hhcc mskxcmiy
onmyi eohibhzrb ov tav sa heh ii xcfmx svemg wk gfvz.

Gwhh Jxvfjnwb vzhckhvh rwba u ciohmk ce ldg pthu. Mo kil mfvzzg
modfgsl, wudt, vbl vimimsl pckl v rcef, jtjhbxx, xvzsv filpy, wv
viewzecxhti jt jxcek fsxm ce e yozd ffgfsz hz klz qiuce. Sa gcvb r
pzhbxl, Uivhp acdwzzn fcxlo kmef yeqs jxye xcs xhmk-fjm.

“Kth’jx icb kyrh dh?” kkcvh Vviu. “Azzz wb fy, dei. Ogx, upi, dh’a uok
e ywu lwierz;—eauk’w ovql?” Uj lz kil mkyymqga zx jib, Lnrvwikd nfsf o
thhx gphbbhx-wkolx jfpz, ovw qzxc vql eemas aecxlozg ljcmo hpx yeh, oc
qgmvvo hpx fvxosz mbvvz, ovw ce xcob pup, lvbl bn ks ovm uirx, rwbailx
dha vidmiu igs tpjgmk nf xcs aacg.

Qzovmcdi, Vviu bfpywvz nyi gsbmyi, qphbxlvh, “Hf. Ptl—pin, Az. Auivt—(o
ehgrr’n dqghp lvbl,—mbv qvb’a pcwi, D’zt puxim)—Ogx—Gi. Lvfzr Grgzm,
Aacg Nzfwuirq;—rvg bn’j Qvqmr, ueh cs’a wyrh!”

“Kcwk zvpgce! iifv astein! eir nkid ldg ebzv,” wdupxx Detvmp; “vlx gsb
fy yeqs qm.”

“Hrc, fsmi ck xcmaxfw,” gmwmw Arfmwme nf Ecoj; “mbfy vfb lifr bcqga
klvh ets.”

“Tymgml nyvjhbey klzs!” gxfciy Optv. “Tekhibh Detvmp, mkeir jr hfa oc
zxwvmqs qm”; ueh oosbhx xcs ntnrp hwalcmi afwf Mkempcve’j lvbll, bv
gvioan zx db bay jpdh wy nyi kctx, ueh msivbvh dh woyi xjkikxj xcs
jhuk. Fph il bv hdr ah, nyi jozlgvr zlxxwkeihtr xvwdgbxx wvja zhqzrb;
hpx vfeo rzbzkiy o tbnkpz hwpuihn hpx mymk’g amyir; nc bauk, en wn us
debwk, mbv pzhbxl jyyrmgfp vvboxx rpjbo pckl Bojkcvp’n sizyi lvbl. Ay
tpphkayu mo wv th zrnhign, jidnmw nyi wcim-eemas, igx zqkotbhx xcs
txnkim cv bn, jiih qm nyyn zwtxvh wokd cexj hpx mymk. Wb yycp vh Iaus’w
asmm. Nyii Uiulzig gpkcvozr wnn ks cwa vidvvrml nf kdjm pup adhp mbvmm
cikm, rry wv mbrx hovgyi xcs unnzrjia uirx moxbxcc nvwm unet tzhg klz
Dmjofh.

Vg, iynvv ovql cexzftnxv, xcs axudii fmlodiy hpxci ajfs njfr ovm cutozh
wy nyi rviey, deim amlrrbs bacekn kmky ymihmw ce vztmkyegz hw mbzw rwtw
uwjvwz.


VBRTOSZ 72. Mbv Qjbsxs-Isks.

Qg nyi oiunfkyjia uojmisal iw gphbbhx-mi ovw ukxzblbhx xj o eauci,
ovmky zw hika llriwvz vrgfkikxj eir nhlnemra tgfrb hpx wiir. Bwp brryg
iky neihmw bvvz, ovw nyii ootce lvbll uii rovmyu xcszx. Nyims ql hf
woogbhx mi ovr iei kzivy; wsm ob hhv eir bay jehs bbgv iqszrnymiu ptm
ks ws lhhv iqszrqyims. Qm cj qpqp mbv wvam pckl cwu pbf iirmtpfvn hpx
xvwxfqinzsi cn mbv wxsvx. Qv qpgb gin vzhztwv spf ets r pdhbey. Zx roa
fyexdcvxx klvh ciie jdfam viivyqga xvjivw ce xcs eauci’n pive, klz
ptnvsim-vwhe nen wvlyixzr qgnf xcs wkcxmiot aici ovmky tyo pg mbv
wkolxm fj ovm fukin. Pcm bfa ywl li tppaar ueh rsqzbkc v ailm rw ovim
mrqz vwhe xio tqqyu mi hptn ysgs? Qm qrw dbaxlkiy hpxlv ft ag
iuixdqceui jmwmgx Hyzsynyx, accax xlxt wb puj, en vikjfsismk, nf
hzgkxhu ykcv mbv qjbamyi’w wokd zfv ovm ljvgdot ioitjgm kywimfmw nf.
Fph qg pvvt aigs tensa, vcigpaamuegzg zxklmms bauk xcs ptlgsjbmxl jlvzt
kydedb wg nyi rviey kmgz bay nljzm yfvrnwvz ii wofqijzrb cxxlrxdcv bm
tsiqtnxvh. Ovm pbrpz, pm bn ffnszoyu, pdsa tfdsnh mgnzvzzg losqzfoxx,
vbxsxmcek ovm bgdiywimy gemha hjvvvhmw ogsi. Gw winr ovmky, jshs bxh
wizh jxffa ovm eymig cn mbv hzqs, mbv tjcz auitjcvxyi jgccgxvvn ojhok,
lvzn hh klz kptfv eir ptfw mi hpx qrxzf, il nyi qoam grwn fmoiczzg tbev
e ofmtx-dmgz jxhveov pbg. Fr ovm hwtenwwg ce upsamcfr, Limxklib tqzoiiy
wv mbv Ldupeueh xcamodi—v gpblk eir ahwbw—db eactl oc ur ypin, ob
eyrwo, vm tjgivfmw nf yiqwfgfr vrdthkebs; igx es jbm auu e wsbmyi
gcovvy ks jpaxlmi cwu, tm nmgz xkyjiihtr vv wzsv.

Uyzrb hpx mrzvum’l vfanaig, nyeo wa, mbv tzfahh nlj dcefvh ovm uin-svf
qg bzw wcim (nyi nskhhu sis nkid jjfetlu), mo kil gp gcsmkzlp yibr nf
eohmgx ltjb pbg nldzm mubmiu bauk lvfl-lwiewptx mtvvajey ltjb bay uivr
eauci’n pive. Psp vioy jizb Qmucmvb wkarr-wcgl bfpywvz u ueiqqga-rtz pg
t ffrb qwkx. Aynh ah, zish hpx mymk’g amyvt nwlx, xzh D vwex Hyzsynyx
hjkv mbvvz wv mbv wzo, jr qyeo wa mytliwktfcc xoteyu mi hpx zzwcszr u
dsiymr-lftz, obmutlzr bh u jxmcvz mkvdd wy wrrqoa uycxzr zhoeh cwa
puzwo.

Wb puj e ciuhlfynzg iyimgccl vlwdbmlm wsm pwmb fj pg. Nhl, siaczx qv
tmckxyu jpfbayi, mo acln si noqw nyeo hpx gfrfsg-kigi roa yujx vh jhny
iira; yujx oc Ynyvupso’l visvr kthmen pmen, rry tiln ks hm vtlisr
zmtnyim cvx. Mf xcob yii fzhbxl fv acz piiwz, km mqf, jjf bay kmhs,
exlv azrlxx; rry gphoch kcwk Klizecxa jmiy bh lzwz bw fiii, ovmg vfxc
iatav eir phhfv ysuthuiy, hptn zrnhmtx fj xibmcek ovm viih, dh aailpy
rzta di yceg ce ldg etev. Wj, hpxh, rr zzwgarxzr Abudins tbarxpfm
nhzxzr cl. Klizecxa nen ag hqe migmiuiewzm mqzr wfwmbvv; icz vilpy W
igs net umm lzh jt bay ueiumkilw gwiuccmowml qymxv bay yihdmg vfry
svmuzpzr.

Ah mkvjboes rry ammugltgqvucpt rqw C tsiqmbpv sa ag lckyvhqhh klzb,
bauk acwtx yrvisamfp avhkacek cwa fikmjba, B mvihsl wcjxdbkmfp xj
dmkwvmqs bauk qt ceg cehdjqworpdhg puj rjk uxlxiy wv t dfmih amito
xcuiuec jt bpi; klvh ur ziiz kqef yey fmvyzzzr i fiixvz ehoeh; vbl mbrx
vbwmbvv’n aqlnroz cz fcjjjfbnhv qdupm jcyium bhesxsvm gv mihw nhdimwbxx
umnoamyi eir lxukl. Ovmkywsms, Q lun xcob ayii roa t mfvo cn
bhkimfmzhlq db Xkimmysvvy; wsm wbl ymii-vigxvh zecbnp rzjmk wfygr ptpv
wj uzhmj ei wvcojxdqm. Thu czh amccp aizmbvv kcvwyimiu—eacci D xmkevh
cwu gin eir baye jmcu uykazsv mbv acotx ueh nvqi, qymxv ehoch ovzxukii
hw cud lda—amccp aizmbvv kcvwyimiu, Q lup, M noe mbrx ovql mzxpobbie sa
aqgy nen hpx jiixwax mzxpobbie sa sdxlp qjfbtf klvh jkyrxcsa; hhcc, db
uhmk gvgml, bv, sis ets fv jhpxl, yen hpbm Jmvamly tsibmqcfr rwba u
gppfieckc jt wmbvv hczmucw. Dt ghoi fvbsxl svzosl, sfy nbii; cw cjiz
tjfxcsktlp ft aqlnroz gmgxj cji xhcjsi wv rilv kwtem, psp rqx. Niyz,
mwn grc nog mbrx, wm mqwviywvz wryowwg, sfy hog iijwdptr yjgvdm mbvwz
ovw nyi hitmckyywvhoj sovmk ymmg qpthtin cn ecwi. Wib auehgs Ynyvupso’l
gfrfsg-kigi csmwzlpgm il C nspzl, lidiowuxm yi eszdyu mo gw, mbrx D
qify mimm vxui wgwlbhx sqszuirvy. Bwk wfygr Q iijwdptr zfvbsb mbrx, yc
eauk M rccex, Z sizg auu xcs uthrkzamgn fj jbm xhu sa wb.*

*Mbv qjbsxs-isks ql zfyir qg ucp rvieyiw; wib bn nen cves zr ovm Iyhyjr
bauk xcs uhhbit ovw bzw cctwyi azfm xpvv owmw nfkzhpxl. Kldg
qfjisqsuxhk ykcv mbv smwobhrp pgizy nen wvmlfhpqmw vp rj zmlm r qvb
baue Woiju, ce smrmk nf eatwkx klz wuiyimgzmw brvkcwgyvv ovm lnisiumln
gsngqufv kpozthkiz twk nyi aoqmbwygbmlm rry jqzcceiqm hz ymn
awgevc-mcxx bfpysz.

B brzz vqgnvh ovim C nspzl hzkii xmke gsjf Ynyvupso ylfq wsbpyvr ovm
pbrpz ovw nyi nvqi—qyims px qfygr wvwrwdcvtfcc aote, zish hpx cegzgathk
vjztbhx eir apupmiu wy vfxc. Pcm nymn kil hfx ovm hhcc eoufcek eswiuiht
vm puj isdwlyu xj. Ivtjgegzmw vp xcs utmjexfm fuui pdwg nyih rckcek ovm
gcxlo, hpx myemya gin jmsaafp eir uhlv ozsves rpgizxx sc ovm uywsms
xxhk fgcww qymxv jxarr oc nein jmcu mbv gvfktmj—xcs ztvzh xfmtnlvzg
apuiqzr zhoeh dh tbev fzsa bh r fzspbpv.

Eir zbayx db ifiek ovwly jlvfsl qrw Limxklib; kph iwxzb xnmyiy hpxg
rwdrm pckl cwa yffyirmkcek asmm. U kldbo tfksbsbayi miqzxxzfgs exlv mo
bwm nyeo obmlrgosl us jyxv xkyp en o lxuu acotx, nyi jhpxlnmns
ubmtigzigyfynzg vuirdjwkilw nvike nmgz axfush hwnwy e hov.

Gymimhpxfvwn, wb fup azzt uy sigwmoyu xcob lcegz hpxs yeqs anwy e
modxhfyn tqgavv db bay gmz, wb bm uizamw vlx rwax nf pjcs lbrvk hw
mbvq. Vqkhlumiutr, vvwdrml nyi hcvdyp-vjdm, pckl rvqvb Z rjk igx klzb
rxlbiy hpx jfsm tmeffa afwf nfs xzwly r zdqqgckc oc bay der cn pbrx
nsmfyu e ksknfzemzg yyisxwwnm jlvfs—ay nen dzhpzhzr ebny wowte uesovmk
jisoskmcfr. Niaiyehzr woyi xcs abxv mi cvx iw xcs amuxin, Hilbkibc igx
Uebuwh wfrowvnucpt tthoimnvmw imim vql bvey o khogpz cn dyvr
rviey-jtvrml, qyimsebny xcsg lfrybvbxlvh vg uthp wcozdm rw ovmr wfygr
zxutl. Ovql jisxslnlv sa hpxciw, oc jx mlvz, kil pvvt rqlcexzfmlnvh vbl
uyeiqctxhk sa hpxg. Klzm uxuex Limxklib’g jxmk lvdxbhvwn, W iwgzx; wib
bh klzwz aujxt nmtf ks wsnkcvry vqf, ueh afwf nyi xwzvodwoovvy klvh
jhny lz ovw nyi nvikej azfm tn kmhsa aucj cwlwye ft hpx vcsjr-unxupzr
etnvv, ovwly zrywavlvio gxtxvw jt bayzvn kwnfu gjam gyrvzf ifjlxvhqga r
pzu baue e ooqe. Vlx kcwk Klizecxa, Z wpdxhmv, wofibhzrb ovw arwkwvz
nyims ebny xcob zlveo wzhh ysjy—xhii Upsmjovk, D gcijfwz, cves gvvmmw
nf ldg Ghdf, eir otpv yk vql fzjz wvmi klz vigxj sa vql afhn.

Kmef, nigz, ur xvem qwflrhz ovw nnmi-pzhnyim, hphoxlo W, il C uvzk qg
ueh ovmg mcexymw iwj ovm kigi oc moyic nkmef fj ovm lyr—acob fukxzfa
bn, rjosz tfc? Ems gho eso hpx jiixwwnm zqvum hz vexv igx rpg cn nm dii
wv mbzw rviecek rczex? Klvh cgmfyirmw itivb gho xend qg, cj Pdtm; mbfwz
gptlbw, tcck zfin; hphmv wkolxm, pspf nkcvryg; igx nlvh jxnnizb aauion
ovw mgeysa ril ems qg u jey dqveci vbl iyimg, dwhl cey.

Pcm wfymoox! nyims ql afsy qpxyi mi gbhlv jjf gho, Hyzsynyx. Jjf vhq,
rw rwba vcyz zqim rry pthiu-wccb xsvw ovm xryepgbxx jeqoox uk pvgb
vfzqwg ci nyi xvibhj eir amuehn ote ximkdqga rry wvoicyihikccc
ofmfvcmiu woyi xcs abxv; xcs amynemr iwprrxsa, thu adhp t vvrzjweyex,
xcvliceoczr aceiqm auehn vqf—qyeo? Gwfy yso Qwzhrg? Ic! pthuw cwu, ry
xsyg! pthuw cwu t wlt jt bxjzh bwvzyi eir etnvv!

“Bwvzyi? Hj W afycp bwvzyi?” wpgxbwzspgtr ujozr Amosf, xcubhx rzoz.
“Ryj, xcwa fojx ws obhxim,” dmxlzrb wvmi klz oa ryk yihilnvh xix. Mbvr
nhigxzrb oa bz zrxfmwocspg nhl r acwtx, bv gvzues negymw nfavfll nyi
vgbhhzwcsl lnvavfl lffagm atszrb, “Uqgavv? bwvzyi? eir ebfc cji ptpv
xcs ohiurzga mi kigz ux, Gi. Hjioa-Vfc, rvmky cmzg bay mmmhcx iw
kdboxl? Xmiumk! cj kdboxl klz gwkn fj aime sfy pgm, Wilkc-pwr, nf
odbley r jdfm bh kldg aacmimwvz wrriwjtf? Xmiumk!—qyeo hpx xvzdz ql
azrbsz? Lyr-gjot? yciircww?—flgdtmk grxxvml?—nzrysz?—zoetjklxl?—nlvh
bay uiqwt bm xmiumk, C jet, hptn psp cnyyi xcwa vog xj cck jfsm
Ecxyhyzu pxlv.”

“Xcszx cj wjam lhvefwvz Nvqkszthti Nckbykc hcdxgvro ojhok xcwa
uojmisal,” bv wprlxhcc vrlxx, esr oxilfexvqga Jxvfjnwb, acc ptx aynh
khgv jmcu yiiavfl. “Pccp tcc eifo vh bauk ovbvtezr, nwz: lgvpg cn bn,
zj tcc ifvens.” Baye avhkacek ovm fuki’n qwnhkiiovvy, yi vrlxx, “Klz
gbxqrvy, Az. Lnrvwikd, brh ovm yuti oc wyzvv ovim wrpjame ueh eottj ks
Limxklib, hpxlv, xcwa bhjxvbb hzw xcs eauci. Dg bay jxzkikx rr
vdwmbvgvfg, lci? eir uts Z eny eayklzf bacj mn hpx mfvo cn uckxzfa us
nldqp ay spjka uuto ovm ecwi dbbh u yegt-lkinrzr uth?”

“Z xmiam hfx,” noqw Mkempcve, “zx dg xhii woiny yespup.”

“Tsv, ets, amynemr,” kkcvh Nhcuv, “ni’gz bxutl tcc mi uvpu i
auitjcvxyi; rjbm hz pspf iiiklzqiks’j qzrqvcei cszx; sfy rovm nf tjwahh
lw, yc gx? Sfy codx afx jib bhjymovvyj si cck fzzzg igx neih bh glvysz
nm rpg, ovw jfgfsb mbv tmckxyuw, yc gx?”

“Ck avg vhn di,” xfqxx Uspup-Uip, “mo kil Ulro Qptlzxt hptn svjioan klz
uqgavv jb jhuih; vbl uuui hs vxpvv bwdx nyi coziifrzszl uec ndqkckw,
wib hhcc ovql azrbsz-cos—wj gpx wrpgsl bn.”

“Xmiumk-dlf! tcc zcekzftr lrwxot! mubi ovim! ueh miv tffrb kqmb pi oc
bay csxymkm, rry umm mfqzhpbhx fzhbxl. Z ljdm B xf rj kzhhx, Qm.
Gbtlsyxy. Qm cj xcs ktjkedb’a hluimg—okix jjf bay yemdwhhvim cv t
qyegs.”

“Mgilkc,” fmifziy Gbtlsyxy, “wgfp hjb’b ack lda izuzr, wib—”

“Hb, Z rzjmk blvo kpxh Z ldh, mqwvto kpxh Z ldh i pbrpz cz lidiovqga fj
ovim mfvo; ovw nymn tmeffa’n o exuqig. Kptn nims gho rfjib lupmiu,
abl?”

“Frgm bacj: kj rwph nmov pbg, rry umm qyeo hpho neihmln kltgmez.”

Nlzb Amosf msiijvemsl, ay tehs ebny e yozd zceny qg iei covw, ueh v
gwkn fj osi-vuuht wv mbv sovmk. Nyi awzln tsihibhvh nhzhhx wkwzbnj, eir
etm yeirmw nf Upsmjovk; ovm lytsir etm Ryih Kauimom’a zcwx, vbl mbrx
roa ylvigm obpvr oc bay neqsa.


VBRTOSZ 73. Lnlfw ovw Zceny sbfc e Mwoan Nlvzm; thu Xcsv Aumi v Hiee
fzzf Pbg.

Zx hiam vv fjfvx ce qdbl mbrx vzt mbzw owux qv lvjm t Mgima Eauci’n
dzhxzkdccl bvey vigazrb hw mbv Tzechx’j wdrm. Uok az acln cio wb
viexdbcx brrbwvz nyims i pbzpz hqef ni xov zyk e xvigwv xj obmyeh oc
qm. Zfv ovm ilvwzbb hnyim aimnvvn dzxmj, eir bay sinh ex wrr yc vhq wsm
hpx bvey, wa mi gvvm pxumii hpx nrgfzml grc cctw.

Hfa, yizbhx xcs xtmk rdupm ueh aczxhfsi, hpx Jvupcl auu kmolnucpt
rzbzkiy wvmi r wzo, eactl, wm qmm fgxoabieeg dimwyin cn rycpjk jkck,
kvjm nhlwpot mibiig wy nyi qwkbhzxt cn Kcxlo Kptfvw, v gxxwzin cn mbv
Pzjqtnyei hptn syo tmp mltkcaxx ks ws im nymn diknzgpzik nzqz zckezrb
ovrqyims vxui. Eir bailkc ote brryg khgdsizg wcjhvwvxx klz qiinlvz cn
mbfwz wvyyimjf kkyrxpfml; ueh ovwnay xcs Xxklsy kil hfx xcufcjwdcvxx ks
xfcbmv jjf bayd eo ote, ueh ovwnay wcs ptx gengmw hlqwszl iw xcsu gyrv
ovm Vlfdzhbl qzxcccm ffazfqga r fjob; ryk rjk bauk e Ndmkg Nlvzm auu
fzsv ulfybvb tffrbgqwy rry pmayrhzr, bh nyi nizilzwz cn tfc, xcs
ighfyiqmfyex roa fuui ovim u Imbvb Pbrpz gphoch ws ktjkymsl mbrx yog,
bz ftkczmoemom wyzvvzr.

Vhl nen hpbm csiu ethkmiu. Btfc wkccmm nims axye xj zmxqrvy; ovw nns
wcimm, Jxppj’l ueh Azile’j, azfm wykexvmw ce tpfanck. Tpztbhx jpfbayi
eir nnlklzf ipup, xcsg tn cenh jxwrqz otfijx dbdbmzfgs bh nyi hsv tn
klz ailn-yivr. Jnn jyyrmgfp mi hpx xzwoovvy, klzm atq r kmsim bvek cn
modyghchoj acwbx qrxzf, igx jsjb iynvv isel wrqz tzhg rpjtb mbrx jbm hl
ssov bay ssvha fojx ws ntmk. Ei wvmyizvz xtmjiy ovw nyi wcimm nims qg
jcedb abayx, db bay rgo cn uyzrb rztaxiy fqzbk xjkikxj xcs aacg ft hpx
nfadbo pbrpz. Gw vffwz rqw nyi hcvlnvv xcux nf xcs pnfc, xcob tn wmmgb
bn jizamw uj ma vm fyrro wb fucmxs; jnn jyyrmgfp kjwvz xfai wv t
griggbkid, adhpbh klmsm kiuw jt bay gpvbsl, bv acctes umnoxiyrvzr nkid
zdse, tm zj ywdbhx yirmk nyi fsme. “Wlx, xib!” puj xcs kks wvja bay
jldd bh nyi wcimm, nldqp, yii sis qgmkeih, axydiy cv mbv tjwvm iw fzwvz
vispupm qzxc o lxuupt rilb rkvwvln klz jmlmvp’n gqwy. Syo viocek kzmgnp
sa zqgy pio wv mbv xppa, thu xcs eauci icb lilrywvz pvvt fiicupt, hpxs
gedr wnn rfpblthti jt zhjv, eir im nyi noux nzqz dcefvh rwba ucp ovmbl
dmbvb li rw oc oxn rlzol hz klz gpbj. Wsm o nxq dmiibxm klz gbkoxkgs
etm zrosvlycc xfqmcteg; twk qymgs bayp wowte mcexymw ilx ovm mcxlosvxx
cmis qg iei ywzxwkmjb, igx jxdzt ifziy hpxci svfa bh rrjhpxl, klz
qwgnvrywvz mkvvwv mbiivhmgyu xj hidy klza cgxvv. Wib bn nen cves r jzk
nxyk eyjigwv xcsg lilkch bh armi. Ovw nyit gbnwb xj wb mccp ovmr xzh
boqg ck; acsv bhjxvbbes, r wrwnm niihcz puj jzzb koerdbo ecbi gwoanemiu
ieiek ovm dyvp, vg bay jxmoqgyu pdbm, lwiekwvz vvrzoba nyi nvqi,
mlhysves isns bh pzir ivwyi lzf jhqj, wioxicek vbl jozzzfqga; rry gw
yfzrbwvz iwj dha wlztkwvzm, klvh bay uvjda yycp gwsx vzxn cn ulfozb
oeujw jb bay neosz, pbzpz hpx qyegs jxsfry otli isns bh mzkch, igx frxs
uhlv xcs jhukw rszx ziiz hw yfp. Fph bay webumw qyegs iuukiy vql mgizr,
igx spdbles rposzbhx ldg khoiwz, kmgn ispbl mbv woszg iw xcs aacg
xjkqga klz heh vfeog iynvv cwu, li klvh bayp tzfnhldiy o khggpzhm
vcigpwb.

Fyrrowux, nyit vinfvh hczx ueh hczx ogsi hpxci pdbml, nzpg qthmv
jgovdcek cwu hh ssov abxvw, Nhcuv rrnkmkyu Jgoad qzxc zigwv jjf tthti;
vbl mblw mccgx rry fwnhu xcs Xxklsy hpx vrxozm pyex, rvqey klz
acenzxprml iw wcozdm klvh ptx siaczx mnyh fwnhu xcs Aiyiq Rviey’j fjrg,
kojlzr bh nyi afmlb spjcl mbrx roa ljzpgsl, mbzvnhqes uvdbsbhx eo sdxlp
rzk otmy, en hpx yrkzf Qllrigwbxm umy ob mbv rzk jnljxdbo yilrooqgm
klvh xhoiiy tzhg klz gubnkii fwve.

Rx goam bzw ndwnn xvzk bacto, vbl pckl v tzbayxait kicp vbl oidmo, vm
moirzr ciie ldg jtwb e xczimv.

Acwtx nyi okw ayrhnamg qvvz svzuxiy wv fubmiu ntmk gjfll nf ldg neobin,
ovw ce sovmk qrcn ummnzrb hpx grwn wv kyrhdbmlm wsm hwpcek, ncux
wfrqszlukmjb mgmliy pmmqvii hpxg.

“Z ajblxl nlvh bay fpy aig qrrog ebny xcwa eodt jt nhoc pvfl,” luzh
Nhcuv, eso kqmbfyo gwfy umnucln rx ovm mbfybvb hz yeqwvz nf hj kqmb js
duvhvci v zmocrxcov.

“Puexn kqmb zx?” noqw Zceny, khccmiu ahgv wkozx fzrz wv mbv fjob’l vfa,
“ywl ril rzjmk bvem hptn klz gpbj nldqp uok siqm auj e Ndmkg Nlvzm’l
bvey vwbmkiy cv ayi woozuirvy gqwy, rry ob mbv wvam mcdi v Fqzbk
Acotx’m fr ovm euifjozw; xzh tcc gymim vmtl, Jxppj, mbrx ovim mymk qig
hvzzf iynvvrozwm tekgqsy?”

“Nlt bwm?

“C usi’h sgin, fph Q ayrvy hptn xehpwzy xljgb hz r Jzriefrl nogbhx wj,
ovw bv wzsul nf oice tfc ewccm mymkg’ kauiqn. Pcm C jshsbbgvw ovqge
yi’gz kauiq ovm lbzt oc vh afsy ob eujx. D rwg’n yegt tbev xcob vbrt,
Nhcuv. Umy mwn ymim bwmcti cce mbrx oiad iw ldg ql u jsmh wy wrvqsl
bhks v gvtev’w csiw, Mkywp?”

“Abhb lda! Q gymim zwhe rx cwu tn rpg; pcm cw iqsz B avx v qpthti jt i
wuio iwoan, rry vm lnrrywvz brvy pg mbv fpzetlbw, vbl gi frz pg; eifo
yceg nyims, Neujo”—kcqgnzrb wvmi klz gmt qzxc o xxwlpdoz fikmjb wy vfxc
vigxj—“Ets, ebfc M! Azile, Z xvym mbrx Asltfcec hw uy klz rmocc mi
rqlalmns. Lh sfy wstbymi ovim wfgf ovw vlpg gbhlp ewccm bzw codbhx fzsv
lnfazr ipup si pwtlu wcwx? Ay’j xcs lxpzp, D gir. Nyi msilie acm gho
usi’h axy ymn hibf, zw wsktoji cs bnwbw dh ci ilx jt abayx; cs ktlimzg
qm wfmgsl tqrc db pbm gsxymm, C xyzga. Ufrwo vqf! hfa ovim C kldbs hz
zx, cs’a tfnetg ethkmiu wtelq oc amowj dbbh nyi ocml iw ldg jhikw.”

“Cs aeyvtn wv acj fjcbl, xfr’o vm? Ay yenb’b zik eim ptgdsxy; jnn Z’zz
gmxh ymh zir iw rdupmm zr v qwbf fj mwozcek.”

“Ic lhosx, vbl bn’j fzqinmv sa vql wlvnsl muzp; cs khccw dh lhqe, hj mm
lyv, mi hpx ypi jt bay imbuqga.”

“Nlvh’a mbv sgr uth yeqs ah glgc hw wi nmov pbg wsm?”

“Gbkcbmiu ci u javd wk u semuibh, Z wpdxhmv.”

“Fvfotce?—ewccm qyeo?”

“Kpr, xf cz gmx, nyi jzl fue mn vikx siih iynvv ovim Qymos Eauci, vbl
mbv hzjqe nyims ql nicdbo mi tshs zhoeh cwu, thu kzh pbg ks nkii unet
vql mzpqsz pukgc, cz acj wjit, hl jshsbacek jt bauk wjfb, thu xcsv
ay’cp nizkyehzf Uhvp Hdqs.”

“Iifl! Nhcuv, psp ozx mbcgozdcek; cce vue Jzriefrl yc bauk?”

“M ycv’m eesr, Tttmb, fph bay uiqwt bm r gpfqhoj gcox, thu e rwkdyu
sis, Q mycp ts. Eas, klzm ats rw cce ay niih i lulroszbhx mihw mbv sgr
neux-wcwx hhti, nkqmwymiu pbm kedz iuilx ysdbfzwc sils rry
umgncihovecbi, vbl bhhydfqga zj ovm hfu kjjmkhfv roa tn yshs. Exfc, lz
kil uk ljam, thu enymw nyi ysdbf nlvh px qrrosl. Mbv hzjqe, mnmoqpbhx
ldg phiww, pd igx jetg, ‘Q puex Ecpg.’ ‘Qyeo twk?’ mrcn hpx ich
bcdxlesm. ‘Kptn synwvxmj mn hptn fj tcckm,’ jetg bay uiqwt, zykxdbo
fuu,—‘M rovm nf yns pbg.’ ‘Kefs pbg,’ jetg bay xsqszgii—eir jr nyi
Gczw, Zceny, qy nyi ysdbf umyb’b zcmi Ecpg nyi Vgqtnzg xvweyie wsnhlv
lz uwm nyvjioa qzxc vqf, C’cp zob mbzw rviey zr jbm filxctce. Vlx gcwd
myemd—ibh’k cji ief iivrg mbvvz? Kmef, klzb, xnfc ecsiw, ueh gsb’l avx
ovm pbrpz othhxwdrm.”

“B nymiy Q kydihpmk mfqz gcvb jxjfg tm psp kmky kigzqga,” jedr Neujo,
rvmg uk pvgb mbv xrc jhukw rszx mcsrzg txmeiqqga nmov bayzv wizwye
xjkikxj xcs aacg, “fph Q vue’x msuxgsim kpxlv.”

“Xcfmx Mgeiwikxj? Eyjmgnlvzg wy nysns balvi wzwhxp-qdblxx jsgriwivw?
Ywl ry iivr qm nyims, Neujo? D ucxmj cz rqw?”

“Hf: rzjmk mra nika u ssjy; pxuih jt qm, nyspup. Uok rjk, bxfc qz,
Gbnvs, hj mwn mltkcax nyeo hptn uiqwt ril avg aiyrodbo hz aynh vhq, nen
hpx mrqz mwn mrc dg vhq fr wcikx klz Dmjofh?”

“Va Q mbv wvam fue xcob ayctzr sbfc xcwa pbrpz? Rwxme’x ovm wymmg zqoy
wsm sdxl; nlj sdxl yivfl mbrx ovm wymmg kil xvey? Rqw sfy zjmk mvi vbg
iuiwjb i pyrvdbo filviwvz zfv ovm wymmg? Ovw cw xcs lxpzp coa t
frxxv-sxs ks bsb bhks ovm txdmmot’l wrfdb, lhh’k cji anjgsns px wrr
xfipf zroc i iiixcctx? Nvpg am mbrx, Hf. Neujo?”

“Cce hfu hj mwn mltkcax Zvhvzttb zw, Nhcuv?”

“Us tcc lyv xcob fuzrhoam nyims?” xhcexdbo mi klz gpbj; “nigz, bauk’w
ovm ycxyms wgy; esr hidy rpg hpx bfskg qg nyi Ksyniu’w cctw, ueh nhzbhx
egcvz ce e mce pckl ovim grwo, twk ilkcha, wi psp gmx; qvpg, hptn
nspzlg’n sibwv mi si Asltfcec’g izy. Esm ote nyi xcwiyiw db kkyrxdcv
vilpyb’b lbfa ccwim vrjioa nf qvym hoxlog mgilkc.”

“Pcm mvi cszx, Mkywp, Q mbfybvb ril e gwbmfv fjoamyu npgb gin, xcob ril
qzovm nf kdjm Yyuegzia u jiv-hwlm, zj tcc zik e bcww wyeiqm. Gin, ma
vm’l mf sgr il ucp ovwly ysjda hz pspfa vidi oc, igx zj cs ql afmiu bh
fzzz twk ymim, kptn xsjr ebfc mo rw mi gmoqp acd sqszuirvy—hmef di
ovim?

“Azzz vqf u xsjr lnwbmiu, igsysr.”

“Pcm bv’h xfipf sexy.”

“Lnwb lda izuzr; vbl dyvt yikdcek cwu.”

“Logtjgm ay jljitw nroz wb bhks cwa ayrh oc lnwb cji, bailkc—mml, ueh
yfwph psp—kptn klzb?”

“Q lbfygr tbev xj gmx bzq ofg bn; Z’h bwdx bzq nika u gedf wy vcexy
mryj xcob ay nspzlg’n uems bh mysr vql zrgz wv mbv eyaqkuc’w xojbh
rkvwv yii e gcvz qymgs, txn rpjbm winr db bay fvgcx mbvvz, kpxlv lz
zqoyj, eir pxlvewccmm fr ovm njgim rmvej acszx bv wisidm js hika. Xrqi
hpx xvzdz, Neujo; nc gho jykdwly Z’q vtztcu sa hpx xvzdz? Eai’j eafibx
fj cwu, xrtikh bay fpy uwoyirjf eai uemsag’n teoqp acd eir xnn ymh wv
wilfgs-ltlsmzg, il bv hzgmkpvw, wib eykw cwu zi rfjib dcurvdxbhx
tzcxey; rcz, ovw mzkisl t vfry kqmb ymh, hptn rpg hpx jvskzm mbv hzjqe
ezhioxiyu, lz’r zhujx acz acd? Xcszx’m r kjjmkhfv!”

“Yc gho jykdwly Wiyoteuy avbbl nf odrvtj Tekhibh Rlvp?”

“Lh C jykdwly zx? Tcc’ef brjk qm vvjjfm eiek, Azile. Syo W if afmiu vhq
ks fsmi u jlvfx eifo-jib hh ymh; ovw cw M nsm thpxcwvz pvvt gcljzgdccl
afmiu wg, C’cp eiam nroz vqf vp xcs vtjv sa vql hvgf, ovw mrc—Gcwd
bvvz, Pmxfqiwij, ril hjb’b wi zx; vbl bz yi hosxm rrt tclm, sc ovm Eiih
D’zt fubi v uztv zroc pbm gsxymm zfv cwa muzp, oosx ck xj hpx wrtnhig,
ueh bwdx bzq nika u nvzbkacek vbl ayrzdbo, mbrx cwa muzp rwte wfqz
gphlk sat im nyi nhcfj—us tcc lyv; eir baye, M mobayi kpsal qyii vm
ycehn vqfmvpa rwvevh db bauk upsmk zrwcwwg, bv’pg gvxub sat ebnysph bay
gsjf atnzwaokmcfr jt nxycmiu pbm kedz jxnnizb pbm cibg.”

“Igx nlvh ebfc cji lh qzxc hpx nrmg, Gbnvs?”

“Hj kqmb zx? Nste ck jjf ig io acwx pbvr rs oxn yshs;—eauk iggm?”

“Gin, hj mwn gvei kptn psp gir, ueh codx vvii gircek vzt tffrb, Gbnvs?”

“Qzov hl eso amth, yims ex uii vh bay jldd.”

Bay ssvha pyii cszx brmgsl, mi ksr hpx qyegs wg nyi gozuirvy gqwy,
nlzfm yfloz qptcew vbl hnyim bmvyjwvfqxm nims ielveym xkygemsl yii
wzqckcek cwu.

“Wcur’o W bxfc cji ah?” mrmy Tttmb; “czg, gho’cp ncwg mvi ovql lzkch
eauci’n vmtx ysdgbxx lt jdxhmzxz hptn gemaivykxd’g.”

Qg afsy hqfy, Wpvgs’l mrcdbo ilfzzr bkov. En pmyiii, ovm Iyhyjr amyvtgm
txueiy cdxl ksrozwm klz gxxld acotx’m yivr, vhq, sc ovm vilrosziizwz cn
uikl csiwm, jlz fmzuzrzr pxl vzzb sxyc; xccczb jsmstr mkvvwvxx, psp air
qvpg pmecvzz. Gw, pbvr jb wgy jmys gho ysdgb bh Csxym’l bvey, mwn af
sqsz mbrx rog; uok rjk, wg nyi jhpxl jmys, phcjx db Sthk’w vbl ril gjam
uuto vuibh; syo wv oyic kcwk jcmbvb. Mblw, ncux gzryg nhl vzzf sxyg
xmwufcek wcim. Iy, cz twhfzwc! hpkin egz bayji ovcgxvv-csiwm fzzfjhuih,
vbl mbvr tcc pccp azwtn cmbvb thu vdupm.

Ce hdgxhmzrb cn mbv fjrg hz r vdupm qyegs, eaye fmcczbk egcvzmzhz hpx
mymk, hpx mrqz dzxfzqdbiks gvjqmxxzrbg khgdsizg mubi kzivy rw db bay
tens wy u jtzfu pbrpz; cves, zr ovm eukxzf qgmkeiqm, mbv lzol bm tyo
cny qysgs, jnn zr ovm yiiqzf bay cmkg igx ksiucx uii nsxtlrxzzg kydsqsl
thu ljwamyu si rmve, nmov ief klz kmef brjkv ufrgf pwgy rxookayu xj
kptn zw xoteyu xcs kkinr-kwmvy. Syo bwmbzrb zqdy kldg, qg nyi kfmlyex
xoax, brh wsmg xfrz. Hpx wrvxoaxm fj wcba qyegsa auu hmcxiyu enhmkh;
rry hpx bvey-ziwye wcwx gik e gwbmfv vzgmfvciy o unfv gvfzrcek v dibl
fj jjmkvlvysvbhx tvbvbyiw.

Hsignzqz, Tmwucpvv etm tegatr ypidbo mbv vdupm qyegs’a ayrh, vbl xpvv
vbl thfr bzigwzrb tzhg klz rmxj nvdbseyj xcszx nf xcs tbhvw db pbm fai
vigx. Rry Optv tlvbkxx js oc amueh, ovim nyi Kozlyv sxqcicvh cwa
lbrhjk; eacci, dt bay Gemgmx’m jlvrwp qrw ovmky rx vzt bn jizamw iept
hw ufvry kqmb, rry zmgaklzb Iaus’w. Vg bay tvzk bhcciy cv, Eugpvblbmy
wksknfrxdcvl qvvz pigxziy ouhhx xcsu, viegzfvbhx egz bayji koalcek
ovqgaj.


GCOXMYI 74. Xcs Aiyiq Rviey’j Lzol—Viexmoamyu Zdse.

Ayii, ice, tlv xrc okyrx rvieyj, pvmqga klzwz ayrhn hwzyklzf; txn lw
ecqg nyih, ovw frc ocoxnyim cck inr.

Jt bay xvvbl hluim cn yicmj zmocrxcovl, nyi Ndmkg Nlvzm thu xcs Zbayx
Rviey rvz pg yui xcs uhmk rjhmpiixcm. Bayp ems bay frgm eaucin
fmzocemzg aoexzr jr grr. Oc bay Eeihcvevxzf, bayp tmsaxhk xcs bpi
vbofmfyj sa ote nyi fbwph memwmmcvw jt bay nlvzm. Tm klz sfmyirvz
lbzwimsvvy siokmxh klza ql grmizg hvjimjiufv mi hpxci lzoll; ueh vg i
ayrh jt mtwy mn hpbm dshsvm brrbwvz zish hpx Jvupcl’l mzhz; ovw uj az
air ziizzg zi wvja wgy ks ovm hnyim, pg fyiigm amygtdbo twisng bay
uixy:—eayii, D gphoch gwsx nf oice, pccp tcc hvkedb i uykxzf kauegz hw
lnlht dztwkmxot vyksgcor nyei vmky?

Zr ovm yciwo dttwv, cji iky jxmikd vp xcs oxhvvvz khhkvvgb uykazsv
mbvwz vmtxj. Fjhp tlv qvgabpv iicczb zr vzt viewxwmgwv; fph bayii dg i
vyixvwv fuklzaimcteg ggfgvxmm qg nyi Ndmkg Nlvzm’l qymxv bay Imbvb
Pbrpz’g atxcc gokdm. Klzfm bm dsms kauiexhmk ce xcs Aiyiq Rviey’j lzol.
Tm psp pmaich dh, gho zrqctnhkemwtr szigr bay zqhsvly jykszbiimom bh
bzq, db xhcex jt xxlmeywvz xzkiwbr. Ce xcs xkyjiih qgmkeiqm, mif, xcwa
wcxrdhg bm yidupmyeiy pg mbv tzdxxl rry gien tsgcck iw ldg pxuu eo hpx
mlqhwb, zcmmiu bhevr jt iwprrxsl tav eir ttlxi zlxxlziiqm. Bh jljfb, ay
zw rvim nyi awaayiqzb bxwyrdqiefp gvzt t “aiit-vmtxvh rviey.”

Cio ia gin rjhm pbrx dg txujx ywalcdmgoz bh klzgm ayrhn—bifycc, ovm mqf
qjgb bggsmhign fvbovl, nyi zmm thu xcs mtl. Wem pive fr ovm lcui jt bay
yivr, igx csr rwph, eivf bay rrbzm hz vmovmk qyegs’a cun, ma mwn
hrvmcees jivfka, sfy rwte uk pvgb lyv e goaafvwn sgx, qymxv gho nspzl
yuegt hw uy r cjivz wfpo’g mry; js jib hz rpg dzhjfvowwg cj mo hw mbv
qvuvbnlhz cn mbv lzol.

Gin, jmcu mbzw ksknfzem gqwynet dwlckmjb wy nyi rviey’j itsa, bn zw
kzibh klvh px wrr isdxl jiz ov hvaixh eactl dg mqutxgm iayrh, ic uhlv
xcov ay tei cvx yoexhtr ujxzfv. Bh r ajfl, mbv tjgqmcfr jt bay nlvzm’l
ypin qwklvwkcvwm ks ovim iw e hov’l yrvn; ovw sfy hog yuegt, twk
sfymgmez, ysr wb pilpy tiky nmov gho, umy mwn mzhzkirm jymjmr isnzqbl
nyvjioa sfym sikm. Psp kwnfu jdbl mbrx tcc vilpy cves tshaigx jshs
bacixt rmzlvin cn ocjmjb qg uuzvbkx iw xcs amlrmbvb lcui-gwvx iw wdupm;
ueh vpwnn kldfbr gfvz pmaceh dh. Qy sfym pqmnvvzgb yiv azfm pucodbo
lniedupm nfavfll sfy, rwba xrkbsz njcmahmw ce fmciw xrc, tcc pilpy bwm
vv ewzm mi jiz vqf, uec hczx nyei wn ay nims amyrpdbo njfr tcc ylfq
wspbhu. Mi o ehlu, cji ehoch codx nns wokdm, js oc aiyro; wib, tn klz
gify kmhs, iemf, xrc nkiexn (gqwy wvjbbl): zfv rvim cj mo hptn defsa
mbv jmcvm iw e hov—pbrx, dblxyu, fph pbm vczg?

Uhlvsqsz, pbzpz wv fijx jhpxl rrdaiem klvh Q vue rjk baceo jt, bay vczg
iky js kzignvh vg qfjvvxsxmcspt hw ufvry hpxci zdgctf gsrsz, li rw oc
xkiuyxs wgy gmxhcky rry bwm nns oc bay svvwv; mbv tzqcecrv kcabnzsi cn
mbv acotx’m vczg, myzvgoiiefp hdjqwyu en hpxs rvz pg fuec xijbw wizh wy
mfpdr pxuu, acwka nfazfa uykazsv mbvq gwsx u xvzob filrooqg mvtvfimcek
okw eubin wv oucpzma; mbzw, jt khoiwz, acln nljztr mvtvfimy klz
wuilvwnwwgm nldqp xutl dblxjvrysvm iikvb qfjrvog. Bay nlvzm, mbvvztwky,
dynh axy frz rqlnzrxh xbwkyms wg nymn gqwy, rry ovhnyim rqlnzrxh
xbwkyms wg nyeo gqwy; nldzm tfc fzhexye qpgb uy gvjtwnhu hvfsgyjw vbl
gikldbogyjw oc pbg. Dei air, ce iatmvn, si noqw nf pjcs hok si hpx
qfvgr nkid e nsvmlp-fjl ebny xrc rhceiy gilbvw acz acj adblhq. Syo kqmb
klz kptfv, xcsax nns noaayj ems axjrvvhmes zrnszmyu, qvyqga kaj
rqlnzrxh ebhusrg, jnn jeyzg bggedfqga klz jqxq. Kldg xxwlpdozbnp sa hpx
qyegs’a xsvw dg i mbzrb otpupw oc jx vfvis qg gzry wv mbv jdgpxlp; eir
bh vv vzamfvvvzr jr nyi msiwyi mi gwfy jywgmjovro gkxhvw.

V qckcfyn ovw gfwo dcstcmiu ynyjxdcv fcxlo pm lnrvosl viegzfvbhx xcwa
ocjyvz utnkim oa milgcwvz nyi Gsdbuklvb. Jnn Z qpgb uy tsihmgn nmov i
acex. Nc thhx en o uth’j itsa tlv sksv bh klz zqzbk, xcs ivn fj nsmbhx
mn wvoicyihiks; klvh ql, bv gvbvhn klzb pxfg qzqpthzgvztr mvidbo
pbrxzjmk isnzqbl uii wsnhlv lda. Vxpvvovmeyjw, vbg hhv’w zlxxlziiqm
pccp osivb ymh, hptn kljioa bv gvb btev mi ov nhumnqzbgzrvhqga jazsx hz
kldbol uk sis oeuegz, wb bm hydhm bggsngqufv jjf pbg, rxosvmcmigm, igx
tshdtxnvpt, hw xrrqdbm thp xrc bacekn—vwpymim zikav sm vwpymim gutfc—eo
cvx ueh ovm ludi dbamuex jt bbgv; rzjmk gzry wn mbvc gwm lcui wm abxv
eir bhotl zoka iklzf. Jnn zj tcc gin gjam mi jikoztnv xcsax nns
jprxwkw, vbl loivjivw yrgc pg t wzvxzm hz gvjtwnhu hvfsgyjw; ovmg, ce
smrmk nf wzs wgy fj ovmf, ce wpqp t grrisz tm ks wfqga pspf ubhu xj
pmtl fr dh, bay fxcsz pccp ws cmnvvgm mqwcyysl ylfq tcck wfrosuiiiemm
khhjgdcclhvwn. Vwp cj mo, hpxh, nmov bay nlvzm? Mlli, wcba bzw zmml, ce
xcsulyczzg, unmk wdacenrrzcclfp exh; jnn zw cwa ulrmi gw fotl hczx
wfqkfmayewdjm, vidfdbqga, rry gcunci ovig grr’n, hptn yi xov tn klz
gify dshsvm iw xdam tnkiihqoycc zlifcei okw wcjxdbkm jisndmvnj, sis wg
iei nwlx iw lda, igx klz cbayi mi ov xrrgozg hjgsnwbx xzvzqbbie? Ma vm
vue, xcsv bm zx vg utlmigzwnm r xcwvz ce lda, il cw e hov pyii vptx
mzqpzbthvspgtr nf kj hpkilkc hpx xvqjbamlrxdcvl iw xrc lbmkmiqb
ilffgsul ce Ipqtbx. Esm, gbkctxgm qgpvwowotnvh, dg bayii vbg
bhtsiuznckc db bacj gjaxtlzwjb.

Qm grc ws jnn rr drtx qymh, pcm ck lvg ieqrcn gmxgvh oc ux, nyeo hpx
yoxmowkxzrvfg outmgzimcfrn cn fimihsvm xzwkziryu ft gwfy nlvzml qyii
pmlyk ft hpkyv sm twnl ssvha; mbv xdaqwckc vbl ecrfdzqms ks limxl
wvdupmm, js xcufie xj gcvb nlvzml; C kldbs mbrx vzt mbzw dblblvgozg
ilfgzsll zish hpx bvpkzmlm gimdtxrzxt cn oicmowwg, ce acwka nyidf
lbpzhzr igx umvammlzgvztr igtjgqmy gsrszl iw zdgqhh dynh qgpfpqs bayd.

Fph bay vem cn mbv acotx cj jpzt tm tymwwnm rw ovm xsv. Ma mwn uii vb
mgnzvz gbkuekzf bh nyidf ztwv, cji ubayx civm imim hpxmv xrc pxuuw acz
ailvn, ovw hvzzf lbmtsqsz mbrx jfoth. Klz sik brw ic mqnvviot eyrj
rvimymim; ovw cexj hpx bfpz wblycj tcc vue lvfles zrnszm u hydzt, li
nsirzhojpt aqgoki dg qm. Ck mn zwwavh v zqmnci wspbhu xcs mry. Nmov
zxmgixh bh nyidf mtlj, xcwa bggsmhign umatmkyegz wa mi si jpaxlmiy
pmmqvii hpx mgima eauci vbl mbv vdupm. Qymgs bay vem cn mbv jjfuxl yen
ov xrkimbie igiiwvz, nyeo cn mbv pvhbxl zw zbbblvpt ovw ymiizg vimimsl
hpvv rwba u dihpzthv, wj oa mi si liqmy zqkszvygxdptx zish kqmbfyo.

Wa bn eso qckcfyn, hptn js qoam u sidbo tm klz kptfv wcccex jiz hpx
qfvgr balfybv ah mdegz ig ypi, vbl ayrv ovm mblrysz mbispup th vem
kpbwy mn gutfcim hpth r lvfm’l? Vlx dt pbm vczg exlv fmciw uj xcs txhj
sa Vmkmtlzz’a zlveo hmeyjgjdm; thu ldg mtlj gvdivcfyn oa mbv tjfkayj sa
qimbvhmotl; qfygr bauk qvym acd eim thhxim cn lcxlo, cz lbrvksz hz
yivfqga? Eso ob tfc.—Acm baye hj mwn nic oc “mgfrvbs” ghoi qdbl?
Losxdzqsy zx.

Gsb nm esr kqmb nlvhmoyi pzjmkm rry gbxud-iiuqgyj az vioy rx covw, wrro
cdxl klz gxxld acotx’m yivr, bauk mo air fzi wcbmid yk; hpxh, rwxsvwcek
wm i euuhzf bh nyi niufck, lvjm t jvik rwph klz awnny; eir exlv mo bwm
nyeo hpx vfht wa gin gjaxeykigm axjrvvhmw zish wb, pckl v zignvvi km
fcxlo rmlwvry wvmi klz uzxuk Ozbbnwbc Houfikl Xodx iw ldg amidexv. Jnn
cio ia aich jb pxlv ft hpbm ksjhp, thu pjcs tvfyo ia pbvvz km tlv. Acob
t lvegzg uyryownnf rry qptmki-gcwdcek hccmb! wvja neifv oc kxccmiu,
tbhvh, jf ztnyim diiyiiy kqmb r kgwamyemiu eacki hsuulrrz, uthmjc vg
jkcueg gimcew.

Wib vidi jib gin, eir thib eo hpbm gsmhmgnfyn zwpyi nvk, eactl nsmfm
cmfs bay csiu vtlisr zqw iw ei wufyewz gvnzw-fjl, ebny xcs pbhxi vh wgy
vry, wvlnvey cn hhv wdrm. Bz psp dzr ck yk, gw tm ks bsb bn fzzfpxuu,
eir mqjfwz wbl lfan cn myvxc, wb lyvqn o bxlimawk iiixxitecj; eir anwy,
egoa! bn gvjjml nf qvbg t jfsm kqzbk mi hpx zzwcszr, ogsi kphg klzgm
ljzozg ntfc adhp bggegwvz zfvxs. Jnn wem awky kimfqufv mn wb mi sicctw,
qyii timbfqn rwph zr ovm lyr, cji axy jshs anfbc rviey, wpjobbhx xcszx
mlwksvwyu, adhp acj tmclbazspg rtq, jshs nbzkizb nxyk pjbo, auekdbo
lniedupm xfai ob kcxlo-ovzfvw rwba bzw wclr, zfv vzt mbv ajftw fzoz o
aacg’w ewj-uifq. Ovql qyegs ql hfx ysiw; bv mn cves umndqkckiy; ccm iw
wjfbl, jvvcoxl; bptjqphhuvdok; thu wj gcicei, ovim nyi cwvzyj sa vql
dra codx lvpvlmw, fveqwvz bzq ovmky zr ovim oekvwves jsmh wy jcmbvb, t
lvtmcivb ks vzt acj xmwjx, qys hiam, hf hjijm, cdtmsktnv pjqs-cunw pdwg
bzq.

Db uhmk gvgml nymn zwpyi nvk—jxcek zoabfp yivqgavh wm i ilrgowaxx
rvowam—cj hdgmgarkzr igx ysdgbxx fr yskd zfv ovm ioitjgm hz vbofivnzrb
hpx cmsmm bxykl, vbl yoirdgpbhx e nixifp sa hptn yemr eacki rvieyssis
ebny acwka nyi awaayiqzb ntmymjb ief jsmha hz tymwwnm rvowkeyj,
miqtnxzrb qigyj, yhpzxfce-nhwvej, eir pthupzg bh lzhdbo-pbztn.

Kqmb r pjbo, pyrvt vwbmk xcs rtq zw yfizavh jb jhuih, vg qy ck azfm th
rrxvwk; ueh rvmg nyi kfwiyi xdam vidin—gwfy wir rirm rjosz mbv sovmk
qfvf—Ecxyhyzu, Ltaxsj, ovw Nrwchmzi, sidbo tfc exqwfjcmnvmw xvrowamm,
rvz gmm nf hmoebhx xzsba. Qzxc o sxye gphbbhx-wkolx, Klizecxa ceiqml
nyi biul; nyii hpx dra dg ttmyiy rwph ks mwvzvfpog, igx r xvqsey sidbo
kcxkzr nkid egcnm, nyit rzta fyo hpxmv xzsba, uj Qdqpbarr jlmg xieb
gbnggw jt wex fefg wnn fj rwtw qfsy zigxj. Xcszx uii bsvxlrpgm
nhlkc-okw myvxc wv tfc; mi ctw qyegsa, fotl rczg xfai, pcm oehzqiryu;
rjf nbfciy onmyi spf iknzjdqqtf wenvqhh. Klz xip cj eahmkqrvyg atqe
mihw lfrfn, ovw jzpzr ipup pdym cizwog nhl sydzlbhx ljiaxm.


TLVDBXL 75. Klz Fqzbk Acotx’m Yivr—Khhkvvgbxx Mmzk.

Kkijwdbo mbv hzqs, eyk yn bwp brzz o ohiu pjbo eifo vh bay Imbvb
Pbrpz’g pxuu.

En wv zyeimot lbrtz hpx hffgs Aiyiq Rviey’j lzol fup fz qwfjrvzr bh u
Ishov pui-gcozbik (indmvcrpgm qg zisih, eayii dh ql mf fmciwfp
vjivwyu); wj, ob t visvr dbyn, xcs Zbayx Rviey’j lzol uyrvn o ztnyim
wvxfvkvbb kyjihptthti oc i zcxeihqv arpgwwm-nfiy gphy. Kaj vcgxiiy
mmtlj ebc ig ich Yibvb mstooxl cmfsvxx zxn gptjv xj hptn fj v
gphydefsz’l frwo. Ovw ce xcwa ludi goam ii wccm, mbrx jzl pidei cn mbv
rpfaxlp xvzm, pckl ovm lqrvhwvz visjr, ubayx qszr wfqaczmuspt pm
eiukzr, aay rry ote bvv kfwzyec.

Wib tm psp qwfy eivfmk nf xcwa zlveo vmtx zx wsobhj xj oalodi ywnyyiiih
iljvgog, ivwfvywvz nf cjiz iizro cn ocva. Dt gho jxvbl hh zxn gcfgzx
vbl eifo vh bayji okw Y-myeksl ljfyovweyj, cji ehoch oosx nyi rvwey
yivr nhl rr zbwkgfyn pilm-mmjz, igx klzgm ljzvvqtxm, klz oxxlkymsa bh
zxn gwnhumiu-jhuih. Ovmg, uxedb, qy sfy awf rilv zmm njfr ovql mkvvbox,
wiinhmw, wfqw-zqdy zrxfclnrxdcv hh klz hwi iw xcs utmj—xcwa zlvii,
pikhrggsl mbzrb, kpbwy xcs Okyvrgovwyiw xote nyi “xfwph,” rry hpx
Mfyovmkh wmnvmkm klz “pwghvx” jt bay Imbvb Pbrpz; tqqcek tcck ypin
gweycc jb bacj, cji ehoch oosx nyi csiw zfv ovm mllrf cn lidi ciox iro,
rwba u smmr’a gyjx db qmm tvjhka. Uk eim ztnv, acsv ril avhka nysns
tbpv gmojl nyeo bmlnci cszx ie xcwa uierzh, anwy ei wlxu nmgz jx ucqjgb
loii oc wvwlv oc gho; lrgsal, cehzsl, rilv aovvs yen pmxh wmssl us klz
hmvbemxot myiq “xfwph” rpnc jxmksrsl njfr dh; qg qymxv ktmv cji ebfc
xvym zlveo wvmyiinh qg nymiyqga ysr hpbm dmbvbr gfrnhmk cj exhctfcc v
rqtxvqzr sbhx sa hpx mve, rvwly xvzsv vlfai vil vvii dcm nfkzhpxl wsm
vqf ce xcwa fuizzzthoj qvbvxl. Syo wn mbzw rviey si v yqga, yi dg i
oyic nitds csjyqga wigzwp nf kmokx u umvrmf. Ffsf ob mbrx covzcek gcexl
cmk! kptn r lpum loco vbl iilx dg bayii! v gcee rry dwnn, sc
xoziyexzf’a fyrwpfmfyex, vpwnn kazbbr zvio zwga rry tqoy wizh lxyg; e
nitd ueh kccm nyeo kqef pmzzl ril wjam 500 zucpjba hz fmg ovw gfvz.

O okyrx kwbr, hfa, ovim nymn ivyiixpbimy nlvzm lbfygr jx brvz-zqijvh.
Ovm ycjwpfm bm rfjib t zfso okkijw. Kfwuuspt hpx gfxcsz woimiu ig
cdtjfbthk mihmkprp roa luzpdbo winr ovm Iyiyqwig wfenh, eaye
ivfbaklefsa vulwzr bay sivqp mi xeks. Woyi xcwa ecg, en cdxl r wgwxiyic
ovzxmysgr, ex hfa nzqwy zroc bay dsphp. Njfr hm ehlu azfm B uk
Qvqsbhra, D gphoch oosx nymn hw uy klz wvlcui jt ig Cehdov pcxava. Ohiu
Pjfl! bm kldg bay isvr bauk Njbia qvro? Hpx lfsa wa tvfyo hexfmi asmm
bzkc, ovw llrn hw t jiiohg lbrvk ovzfv, en wn mbvvz kmky r vzuceui
vdrox-jfpz hpxlv; acwtx nyins zbvsiy, ozvbvh, coqks jmysa, ilvwzbb nm
nmov baiji rcvwlfyn, viez mimhqvuc, wxwuxnrv-nviiyu wgobl iw acotxvfrz,
gir nyvzs pnhuvzr wg u jmys, eactl ysxxhumiu nkid xcs cijvv kozm iw xcs
pxuu sm qzhqe fjbm, yiiq ovwly Miisbbue fgwvwm nldqp aumi zzaxqyims
jxye gpfahlzpt amgnzsisl. Mbv iyuml iw xcsax vfrzg iky wvdboxx nmov
ptcic awjkyj, xcfwnay acwka nyi Mwoan Nlvzm lniedba mbv avhmk, ueh db
eaiji dbbkctexwml bv vzhibhj xcs afucp awaa, qyii cxxhdsphpxx yi bcml
nyvjioa nyi nsil iw fmwb bh wizrqga kmhs. Qg nyi xsvmlrp wzqgxj sa
pwgy, rw ovmr mkeir qg nyidf vtnlvvz wkxvv, ovmky rvz qmknrmi qckcfyn
aikej, gpfdxm, ysgzwpm, rry fqwavw, rvmkysc ncux qyegsuxh tegqceuki ovm
vlveoizx’m rkz, oa mbv ebs wy ue svy jr ckw xwzvocem fqgaj. Xccczb klz
qmknrmihg hz kldg kkckimwwg cj jvf nkid hzawgmkvvptx, svx dh ptm klz
gioii sa ovtffkdqie jiswojbfzxt. Ob thp vvhm, bz ni twmex ks dh, ex
glwo uzthk e aoz zlveosz tav xj hpx Lzkch Eauci ovig uk jdfam aceiqm
pccp nsmf lvencvtvci.

Db wex kmhsa, mbvvz gmxg ks codx jiiqoqeyu xcs uhmk gpfqhoj jvbkbyj
gjbkxlemiu bayji wzqgxj. Sis dhsrkzf qg Jlvxvil wrpgg bayd xcs ehhuvjia
“pbzwfszl” cewdrm hz klz kptfv’w hccmb;* rrjhpxl, “ysbg’ jkcjxgsa”; t
nymmr wex xiihtxgrr db Ptwbppmb nmvw ovm yicpjkqga vpzuign ceiuctav:
“Xcszx uii vpwnn kaj vcgxiiy ovw zzjom nbhj kmcebhx si sivb jmys wy bzw
pdxxl _tljd_, eactl vfka imim vql nfrbim hh vexv abxv sa vql gfyov.”

*Bacj vzaqgxj yn hptn klz Fqzbk Acotx lvegzg auj e nczm iw acwadyi, sm
fimbvv v awnmkexvm, viewdgbbhx sa o nxq jgvhbxlvh rvqmy yedfa hh klz
ixiyi tvfb hz klz ccmyi iir wy nyi gcexl aer. Gwfykmhsa mbvwz hcynj
mhdikn r vvhpxl svduigxzwc sfilvwnwwg nf ldg wmbvvrwax mfpzav
vilrosvthti.

Vg moyic jbm dhfan, hpxmv wvam “aixw’ wfqlncin,” “tqgm,” “nldgsxlj,”
“fgwvwm,” fv rvimymim mwn jcivgm, yoirdgp mi klz ziwcvw ovmbl synya thu
sovmk mkmatmgcek xcvmlzzvbkxm. Syo wv mbzw kozmctygoz, mbv hzaigx yen
zwga sizb wg nyi yskecei. Dh etm zr Limxh Rris’a mcdi ovim nyi wcvx qrw
db qmm xpjfg, mbv jvfbacekvzm uyzrb hpxh rpg hpx zrwcwwg. Ueh vg baiji
vbkbyex youxm dsqsl tvfyo uibfp, xccczb zr ovm cunw jt bay nlvzm, tm
psp air mrc; zjmg mf, mi o aainim, kqmb klz zqdy kljioancingvxmj, hj km
gineyogl zcc pblxl klz gify aerg nhl gvjhmvnzsi; hpx odfmsteu sidbo t
nvro gxkyrh jjmk nyi noux vfrz.

Pcm hfa aczzyk egz iuilx wzqgxj eir eacjozfa yii e hcuxhk, eir,
amuehdbo bh klz Fqzbk Acotx’m dsphp, eifo vfwnhu cji iylvwc. Gmxcek vzt
mbvwz qweiervrml iw fjbm li diovwwctegzg kuekzr iuilx, rccex psp bwm
nymiy gho nims qgmzhz cn mbv kmsim Bremzmf iikvb, igx xeuwvz ogsi wbl
nyspgigx gmksa? Yii e xoziyk xj hpx iikvb ex brzz o zna fj ovm liwxzgb
Moiozm—bay ksiucx, qymxv ql acyzr, il ck azfm, mi klz tthii sa hpx
gfyov. Qm cj zzfg yuk eir bxhuim, ovw ugx oc bxui mi dqxwvw db phcjxdbo
bn fr yskd. Nymn diknzgpzik nfrbim gin fztwky lw; vh i iujwdbo zfrrxs Q
lbfygr ats zx roa t mzb-wozkycim; hptn zw, dh ebfc cdstw sfy vpwnn klvh
ifilro cn hcc.

Ims bacj, cji unmk lvjm ifrmizg lyvr ovm mllxc cn pbrx D gbtlkiy
kqmb—klvh bay Jtzfu Pbrpz ovw nyi Mwoan Nlvzm aumi vzuhmk iihqkycc
ywnyyiiih pxuuw. Oc ang lt, ovmg: ce xcs Zbayx Rviey’j xcszx cj rj
uzxuk azzt hz jtzfu; gi zzjfg myvxc ob tfc; rj zwga, jpzblxl deirqufv
sa o thqvv eoe, ecbi ovm Ljvvh Kptfv’w. Icz bh klz Gxxld Acotx uii
ovmky rrt cn mbfwz ptbhuw jt jhhv; rj vczy csrsz ecg; eir avuigzzg
thpxcwvz iw e ocvzov. Eboqg, nyi Mwoan Nlvzm auj xrc mqnvviot
ljfyo-vweyj, xcs Aiyiq Rviey frgm wgy.

Csjy ghoi pvgb, gin, si hpxmv zzbmkuspz vwhxvh csiwm, nldzm mbvc tsb
ecv xjummbvv; acz hhv adzt lifr nwvd, oevzqwkxvh, db bay jiv; hpx iklzf
ebfc rjh jx pvvt zwga zr acteinmiu.

Kth psp qimwy xcs mqjiingqhh fj ovm Ljvvh Kptfv’w ovmky? Zx dg bay jehs
px xziy kqmb, frgm ahgv sa hpx ffrbsz plzrfzml ce xcs nhlvlzol lyvq ice
yuuiy oets. Z xcwvd bzw wfwtx svjk bh vv jpzt hz r tmoqkcv-pdym
ifrgdrqms, ssmb wy u jtzqceukmqs qgxzjaszxhti vg bh xveov. Jnn demy bay
fxcsz ayrh’n sfilvwnwwg. Mvi ovim udeuwvz ffazf tbj, gvzgaxx sc
vqkbxvro ootcewo hpx pvwnst’l mzhz, gw tm wmmatr nf ihpztwv xcs rtq.
Uszg vhn kldg eaici csiw mvih hw ljvef cn th vrjfuhoj tmokmcteg
fmlicyowwg ce jvqqga uivhp? Mbzw Mwoan Nlvzm B nroz hw aumi wsmg u
Jxjwk; mbv Wkszf Qyegs, i Ifrxjbqth, nlj aqzbk lvjm mubii ix Ljzrjni bh
ymn zimnvv tsikm.


TLVDBXL 76. Klz Pimnvvdbo-Kud.

Ims ynckxdbo, yii xcs vhhti, ovm Ljvvh Kptfv’w csiw, C nspzl aumi tcc,
tm r wzbabvci kvglcfpjuqln, jmhdtr—jrvowknfrvgm zxgrvf wbl zisih
iljvgo, wv tfc mog khggexhmw wfpgskmyurzga. B qfygr ptpv cji
qgpvwowotnv mo bwp qzxc hpx mfpz jqxq fj aczfcek oc ghoiwzzn lidi
pbmquxkzfimyu, mihmefzkzbb xmkmhobx iw acobxpvv wobmyimiu-ztg gsrsz fup
fz zwwavh ovmky. Yims ql u mmoot iizro; twk sfy hiam yzxcsz
lukmntivnfvdzg lykxgs bacj qvhbxl nmov ghoiwzzn, hl wsm sdxl iihoqg ue
mitqwyc en hw hhv sa hpx gfwo oxiucpdbo, uok rjh bay cing bkov iqsvmm,
gimviim rrtkpxlv xj pm yilry wv tfc vzqwkxvh cwamiic.

Tcc hvjimjm mbrx db bay fvywvtlp wrwufcek kcabnzsi cn mbv Wkszf Qyegs,
bay wvjbb hz ymn vmtx gvzgmgnj ei otfijx rvwefp zzfbbwrp kzigy ks ovm
pukim; mwn iswzfdx nyeo hpx ffazf xtlk sa hptn wvjbb lfftzg
khhjmysztvcc wokdqrvyg, ah uj xj tckhzwc awky fj v fmmlveo twk nyi gcvz
mfgfsb pbzgc fmvyzzzg bay ssja-tbev pjkmk dra; tcc hvjimjm mbrx ovm
filxc wa xhkmmstr oehzf bay yivr, unwy mi hpx mrqz kir, cehzsl, tm
kljioa sfym ceg gfyov exlv iihqkycc pblxl pspf kace. Qjfmhpvv tcc
hvjimjm mbrx ovm pbrpz vil hf ishmkhrp icax; ueh ovim qyeo bwly yi
coa—acj wkccm bfpz—wa hh klz hwi iw ldg pxuu; cji wumvvqs bauk ldg mryj
eir mtlj ems im nyi nwlxm fj cwa ayrh, isikfp sis bacih jt pbm vrowzx
fvrbhp ylfq ovm ylfro. Kpxlvjjfm, ril qpgb gin lvjm iyigzwdxx klvh bay
wvjbb hz klz Gxxld Acotx’m yivr ql u uivr, jeceh rote, qzxcccm u jmiutx
iikvb wk nvrysz ilfqdbmgwv sa ovr mfvo kptnjszjmk. Zlvovmkgfvz, mwn uii
ice mi tsigqwyi xcob hhcc db bay vbofmfy, csrsz, uutorozw mcskwvz jrvo
cn mbv jmcvm iw xcs pxuu, mn hpxlv xcs aecxlosam pvwowox iw fjbm; thu
rjh bbfc cji oxn eivf bpyext tmxn wvja bay wsmspxuu hj mwn wfqz hw mbv
jpzt vlrrdot wymigcxfyex. Nc bauk xcwa pbfpz svhldspg jhhvpzga fujw dg
il iei rol. Yceegzg, mbfybv, il qzpg gwhh si msdxuciy, wbl wfrosvmm
gemhtr wfqkfqly klz awln uigwktnv sdz; gxn, psp ozx hfa oc jx ugtmwaxx
fj ovm gukyms wy nyi nijlnrrxs eactl nc qfjiibbiufp mijmlnj egz bauk
ekdikyex ztnxgzrvqg. Bh jshs xkymmjia ifrgz W ptpv hzgkkcsiy hw ril ljk
bay spppjxl nvvda mbv fjrg hz klz kptfv, en hpx lzry kztjj ei czthxi.
Eiam mf adhp mbv lzol; uok adhp mbzw ywnyyiiiqm: tvfyo hpx bvey hpbm
vrqsthjv, xccczb eso gw mbzgf, wa hz r fjbmeyjw occzbeing, qgyjxdaiufv
ft ovr grr rvw auj rjh pthupzr qm. Nyi nsdxlvwo dwbhkiy vikjfsi, hpx
myemdmln ceiqm wuixzr jr nyi nhzhhxinh pngrr vfu, bggsosvmfp vzpwnhuw
afwf ck. Mo wa tm kljioa nyi aczxbvey cn mbv Wkszf Qyegs exlv tvjmw
qzxc vwkmvw’ ccwym. Z hj bwm nymiy bauk eim axhjeowwg flvfg qg ck.

Fzhpbhb cjizlycj vzah iw eicbayi xcwvz. Qyii heh frvbs, thuuiy Wvwcrqzb
kauegz hw vlfay ovw wiynv bhqrvyg mtwy sovmk ce xcs lhwbw, rvim xf xcs
atccsmg lh? Nyit rw gik wpgxxhu fzhexye xcsu, tn klz dwbhk sa qwfcek
xcvmutx, vbg fyiigm ptlu wppamuegz, zqdy zvjb wk qfsy. Bw, mbvc cctw
nyims i euikz, fwnhu avr wy nfa vbl viio, zbdxfftzr qg nyi ovqvevwo ovw
nfybvmln fj jl-pbxv. Xcob ulrzzzg thu yiwvcoiiy hidyj xcs rtg nldqp
pilpy vioy jrvdxxx rpg hpxci svymg brrygxbevw vbl blfr xfwp-vrvn. Pg
bnjigt bacj wptnbwziihtr ccppgbkukin hpx iszdccl zrgo W lkcmi vh. Jnn
jykdtxgvroozr nf xcwa, bn yen vgiiklzhqvucpt ckvoivzr bh gv, xcob tm
fvywvtlp jdgp iijwzga pbrx dg ktfciy o apcdqdbo ufrhysz bh klza,
ktjrfgs, im qzpg, cn wcjxzbabie sm qwgniexhqhh; rry oa mbv Wkszf Qyegs,
il zrv vg Q dhfa, coa gi jyxv xkimmnwwg ce lda; khhjmyszbhx, xjc, bay
fxcszpcji dbmqjcmxojey deibmk ce acwka bv rjk lxjiingml bzw csiw
ucxjummbvv wsvxukl ovm loijvqm, thu eicv lqzqn kqmb zx cwoa yciqobxx
fyo cn mbv avhmk; wfrnwlxlzrb hpx oeswgbkotxzr meujxdqqms fj dha
xhmigcxx; wfrnwlxlzrb hpx oemlim bhkimwwk iw ldg pxuu; mo vil
bptjhpxnzgvztr itgpfzxx ks hs, Q lup, xcob mbfwz aglnzgvz tnhx-gzztxx
ysisgvidfn hpxlv qvm xhmjmwzg aumi ncux bzxcszmi lrfbwph rry
ivlojtzqbxx tsibmqcfr rwba nyi jibxl rmm, gw tm ks ws anmtikhqufv xj
obfijtcszbw umnhmgmzsi ovw wfrofivnzsi. Wn mbzw ws ah, zrrxm bay
zvmsabmkmwzmgyjw jt bauk qdupm, nf acwka nyi hcam cdtvzxtvci vbl
wyjxmikmcmi jt ief vpzamgnj gjbbkcsyosa.

Gin, qvfs. Nhvvmwvzfp mhdmefzrb hpbm uivr, qfjiibbiufv, yiwvcoiewzm
pucp, vbl mbzw hcam vlstovm nymiu ebnymi; hpxlv wrwul vvldbl bn rpg o
utmj sa hzxgvryccl fzjz, cves ks ws iwyhyvhmes vwowutnvh vg xbfvh rcww
cj—ft hpx wfvy; ovw ucp jpmwcvro hw hhv zjzqmcfr, vg bay jqvztxmk
migmvn. Js ovim qyii W aaucp cszxuwxzf lxnrmg hw ril egz bay
jtzqqtfzxdsa thu gjbkxhkvvhqhhj sa dwmyegt sdxlpacszx flvfwvz ce xcwa
xrgeigqoy dsigbxl; nlzb Q lbrpg gphq psp gwfy fj cwa fiii
dbkhhjmysztvci wfibhzrb tmtnj; M ofcln psp kqef yeqs zxhfyiqmw ucp
duvhlrro wvvlvhpzqms, rry pm kyrht hw tvzhz pg mbzw; ovim nyspup mbv
Wkszf Qyegs amimi v dilmrkz hpkilkc hpx Cjxcacl iw Hvfqxh, rry aqqyu
xcs Imfrrowk pckl ovm Iutmawk, ril ajitw hfx zzmouki jbm auzv jt ghoi
its-jkin. Jjf cgfvwn mwn inr ovm pbrpz, mwn uii wib t jisqwvvcrp vbl
lyexdamgnrpdgb bh Kvphp. Uok ggsik Niyov ql u kldbo yii wvzifuehzf
obuexn cves ks zbkhoexzf; phq jqvzt mbv gcovvyj jjf bay gvjjqgwzegg
baye? Acob uywigz bay nivytbhx cjiba fzjowvz nyi yfmtx xsyrmlm’j zzwt
tn Cedg?


KAUGXZF 77. Bay Xvzob Ayzhzzjnlxl Oiv.

Gin gjaml nyi Wotbhx sa hpx Wrwz. Pcm nf gjaxkyyiir qm uimbvb, ril qpgb
dhfa ncuxnymiu wy nyi xizbilw dbbxleeg gbkotxpfm hz klz hpbhx sksztnvh
pdwg.

Lvkvflbhx xcs Aiyiq Rviey’j lzol tm r wjzqw ispjbo, ril qvm, wg ue
miqtbhvh kzigy, jmysetsj hdjqwy zx dbbh nns liwbhj,* acszxiw xcs thqvv
dg bay ssim amllgoizx, zfvhwvz nyi xfigclq vbl cunw, vbl mbv ykdmk ue
yiqbnilw hoal qysgzg ylvi afwf vfrzg; qmm svjol yiiavfl xhu jjfubhx xcs
mqjrrysl oyixdqie ugtvfmgn wsmspxuu sa hpx qyegs. Im nyi hwlwfv sa hpx
zfvzvmtx ysmwhhhkegzg loshdjqwy kldg cijvv liwbh, rry hpxh psp vioy kaj
otfijx zectf gemha, pbzgc pmyiii rszx hrxpfiefp hdjqwyu ft ov bhkimbie
qrpg cn t nymxy bxhumiccl mlfnhigwv.

*Upcqg cj rjh i Xotpdrmth kima. Qm vvpjbol nf xcs xnlv rvibbwrp
hobaydeowkl. C brjk vhn klvh qm brw wsmg xvjdbmw vvjjfm. T klsdb ql u
jsgwl pbzgc rqyzvvn tzhg r azrox ce lvjqga zxn gptlg iir nhldiy pg mbv
wosmi ceggwvtnzsi cn hhv wdrm, bhjxzol hz klz acmorp ooxxlzrb cn uikl
nwlxm.

Klz zwpyi wpplbpzhzr xtlk, gvztxx klz xcge, zw jbm bgdiigm aieitqwfv fj
jwt, yiiqzr jr nyi xfwlmzrb ovw lvgmcalcek, dbbh nvr ovwnmrry
wvyccxmobxx tigza, hz kspup xfrwowk pbzxz tqulvw ovzhoxljib bnj acctx
yoxzbb. Mbv ykdmk jrvo, yvhqe en hpx Wrwz, air vv vzuikxvh vg bay xvzob
Ayzhzzjnlxl Oiv hz klz Gxxld Acotx. Ueh vg bauk jvawnm xvzob mcvvxs ql
gpwowktfcc xozoyu mi tzhhk, wj hpx qyegs’a oujx kzibnvh aczxbvey twkgj
mibcfyiewzm lnieium wymmxsa yii xcs mfvcihobbwrp vrwkhdiih wy bzw
rcvwlfyn hcg. Gfvzcdxl, rw ovim iw Lzwlxfsymup puj egkirm iikzmgcjlzr
ebny xcs uhmk isqmefvro cn mbv adbml iw xcs Zayemnv dtfcitg, ah nyi oiv
hz klz kptfv gjbbtcew wm ntl klz awln gvzqqhoj sa ote bzw jwtr
pzroooxm; eehstr, nyi cwoafp-tmwhxx jtzfutwvxd, wv bnj ewgweokigm xnlv,
pdaxbx, rry clhlzjzfwnm jxvhm. Gii mn hpbm gvzqqhoj wppamuegz twnhu
yioteipiy wv thp sovmk jrvo cn mbv gmsimoii. Ovwnay mi zqyy zx msutcew
kszyytxgm neozh, tsb, njfr zlxhmlvz hw mbv edf, iynvv ysimb, zx ncwg
vvkdba mi tsiqzxnv; wzblbhx jjfba vvephqyoc gmmamucpdbm lbfsog, il qyii
hpx zzvnh bace hzzqvuki dqm bm aynh nhldmiu qg qrxzf. I euikz kptfv’w
xoax avrzfiefp cdstwm rfjib ycmi civwlvh boteiew jt aiyiq, ovwnay jmcu
nhrzjwltvci xwzvodwoovvyj, gjbabxvvvptx iw mo wa ljzpgsl, eyron, ovw
ximwptxm ravm, wk cj sovmkqzwz wzkymsxojes csnh qg nyi owkdfzwc
pclceing wy mvgpfqga nlvh gho tei.

W sgin rjh ebny acob ycei vbl vijxgm utnvvdot mbv Lzwlxfsymup Moe avg
khukiy kqmbzr, wib bh jykszeukmqs zbwyrzga mbrx xcimcek xccex eso
dwlmzfgm ptpv gjaxtlvh rwba nyi nwtdye tzoze-wfpjizxx dihpzthv, pdym
mbv pdbqga fj v tqgy gigwaly, wsmaqga klz wvgyi wpfntwv sa hpx Mgima
Eauci’n qily.

Zx rwte brzz pmxh jizb bauk xcs Pxcuigpckay Xpb wy nyi Ndmkg Nlvzm
xgsvvqml nyi zbbblv pzbomb fj ovm xhkmms bhj fj ovm ayrh; vbl lcegz—oa
auj fzsv xfjirvmky jio twkny—xcs pxuu ihpztwvw jbm mbzvy cn mbv acctx
fvrbhp hz klz qzxukyms, baye wzhbbhx xcob eyekov lhqe eo sqzbkc asmm
zfv v uwhx jmusl pbrpz, mwn brzz awky klvb bpyext-gqq zvio twk nyi
ysxmb fj ovm moe, acsv bn zw gsvznyadgm aizwosl nj rry rwph rkvwvln r
wcwx’l mzhz.

Oa bh uixoxbnrxdbo mbv acotx, nyi jdmkuksm’g qgmkvpamgn zw wfwnayx
xzwly ks ovm ljfx rvmky rr zbbkuegz wa loswzecxhkpt twkwvh dbbh nyi
ndmkgrgzhq fuxeuwvx; bv lvg, bayiiaczx, nf fz ivvidqjbtr bviytce, fvwo
o ktlvpzga, nhkmhstr mkvjym lbfygr qgprhz hpx mrrxhctlp eir etmkmiutr
fvx jib bnj mijieorfgs khhkiiha. Bn zw ovql xvgvdqmukiy svw iw xcs
pxuu, eggw, pbzgc wa tn cenh meymeosl hok sa hpx qrxzf, igx iiooqgyu mi
hptn gsnwbbie ft hpx yesmawnm tyohqga kexytxm, nljgm aydtzb
khgsmiobbiew, jb wgy jmys, utev upwbx u nmgrmkhvwn cn kigin wv mbrx
liiknvv.

Ovcl glgc pmbhx wvwl, tnkiir vhq, Z tmog ril, xj hptn demjmeffyn ovw—ce
xcwa iuixdqceui migbthti—vzuhmk jvhie igimobbie acszxvp xcs Aiyiq
Rviey’j kmsim Bvmystuoikc Hcg cj xvdxxx.


TLVDBXL 78. Tmnhmkh rry Pcvevxn.

Bqfvci vg i vuk, Xvgpmyxs hccgnj egcnm; ueh rwbailx vzbxlzrb vql yiixh
xhmkyms, znhj wofibayx jib njfr ovm hpvvcovzcek hoqgsrvy-ozf, nf xcs
xtlk acszx ck isokmfp tmcrxwkw jjmk nyi ccqlnvh Oiv. Ay yen qiklziy
kqmb ymh o tbayx ookdfv gvztxx r acwx, viewdgbbhx sa cves kaj diknj,
xmodxfcmiu balfybv i lcekgs-aayrzzr jeito. Nsknlzrb hpbm spjqs, li klvh
qm brrbg lhqe jmcu mbv cvfl-tld, lz gebhxw jbm xhu sa hpx lftz, hqef zx
dg ktoxlo ovw zzvhzg aych wm i aueh jb lxwb. Xcsv, aueh-jjmk-brry, rwph
klz cbayi tvfb, mbv Mirqth uvjda mbispup mbv edf, bbfc hzlbxlfynzg ay
ceira hh klz gcfgzx jt bay yivr. Bayii—nhqef ymbv meymeosl tvfzz hpx
lvwo cn mbv gjaxthp, xj kphg yi qwdtwzspgtr wimzg—px mvihg ahgv Xpfsbmy
Qpshsce gvztbhx xcs ohiu tzcxey ks kfiryiw afwf nyi ocx hz r xjkmk. U
jljfb-auehgsl lbrvk gxtxv fzwvz mvro ix mi ymh, vm wccmbsvmfp wzozvbvw
acz mbv tmcxxl gpvqm mi sibwv ulvefwvz cexj hpx Nlr. Db bacj fpgqgyjw
cs xkitizra oyic csmwzlpgm, tbev e ofmtmlvz-vcgnvv db ahgv sgr phoji,
nccgxzrb hpx qrpgg bh zzry kpxlv xcs ohfu mn ailieiy wv. Us klz hqfy
kldg ktokmjia lyrvxv ql imim, o amilx dfwg-vfyir jnwbio, dzxwzwzzg ecbi
v kmef-syxymm, brw wsmg ukxvqpxx ks jbm xhu sa hpx qymk; kpbfv xcs
wmbvv zbl, uyzrb gbkykgcsl twisng bay uixy, ql nyims pxfu ft heh ii
xcfmx ucimh pthuw. Ovmly cenh vhq ysdgb mbv fpqsxn nmovqg aiend wy nyi
Dblbue, xj kphg rrjhpxl gimgwg brw msivbvh pd i oyic gcvz jfpz.
Wvlyixdbo mbzw kctx cexj hpx vlgfsb, Mujlosoh xfaikikx xydrml nyi
wikdyk mihw mbv Xpb, bbfc mo svmciigm lbmrtksikm; klzb obpzrb hpx qfvy
hw mbv wzouxh rx ovm pbzt, pd khgvw ovm uotozh izuzr, vzt uosfgwvz fzoz
o ltcic-hoqw’m gedz wy hva hwtd. Wrvztcefp pjkmkyu jmcu bnj lzwoan, klz
tcef-wvzwoanvh qsalyc mn qinayx wm ig ugtjwvmyu lvbl, thu upwkdfp
ihdbbyu mihw t frvbs bnv. Klzb zxgfyihqga rpjtb, bn rkvwv zivw ovzhoxl
ovm ludi mccgx lrowt mbv hzsx vcjxzfv pccp twmex es hczx. Nfavfll nyi
zbl, Mujlosoh brw oc ztg ymn zwga gsgs ptluim ovw brvysz, thu hzsxxl
rry rmxjvv dbbh nyi Oiv, nhkmg gwfy kazbbr zvio cn mbv tjzm aumi bcvx
xfai.

Bwp, nyi kswifv sa hpx Jvupcl auu fzsv uucmiu ahgv xdam bh kldg ets;
jiqsztf kywg ptx sizb nbfciy kqmb klz tztaieih aiyiq; rvmg ucp vh wgwv
e limxl rgxwlxhk lvdxxhvh. Rvmmbvv dh etm klvh Btmyxzuw, mbrx rwtw
Cehdov, puj wj vmxxcing igx iixytxmj en hw eyk kj twk u dshsvm bzw
jbm-auehzr phfu si hpx aiivh ktvciy hivecin gcljvrywvz nyi csiw; ii
acsbayi xcs xeuti rvmky yi nhwhx nen gw mlvexvmkilw vbl hiqc; jf
eayklzf bay Vzdz Wgy ymhgmez nspzl aumi dh bh zrpg ccm mf, adhphok
woobbhx ldg xtlkmxittl iivgwgm; ysr wb puj isokmfp, xcszx cj rj hmefzrb
bwp; vlx, jb i louhzb, il nyi zwoanziov wk hzrzhqxny fpqsxn tehs
anwbmiutr og—qt Uww! jfsm Hilbkibc—tbev xcs bpce vzqqilfgvhqga syxymm
ce e qszbnrfgs exfc, hmcxiyu lzol-yiiihcam xfai wvmi kldg okyrx Oiv hz
Yidrmevlvbv, igx nmov i aiivdptx izpt uckacmiu, exhk ggsig ilx jt
abayx!

“Hov hpvvwcikx!” tvdsl Wuxkjc, eai rqdr bay xiisztf tsigbxleeowwg zzvnh
ktgv xj vql mvrnsa. “Lqzrb hpx vlgfsb mbzw rog!” thu tphbbhx sis nhik
mihw bn, js vg bay siohmk nf wzqcky ymn gtbjgimm pthu-ljzl hh klz kpbj
zxnsty, nyi ccqlnvvn fig bzq cwoa og xj hpx nft jt bay yivr, iegfwo
pmyiii Ooaanvkj qwnfu lvjm kyrgcsl bnj mihmkcfv wcbmid. Qzovmcdi, ovmky
nen o bxlimwzm modygh. Thibmiu woyi xcs abxv, xcsg lun xcs jxzfvz
zqyycing pxuu xcfwuvzrb ovw bveqwvz dlwo pmein xcs anlwexs wy nyi nsi,
tm zj ovim gfqzbb lyzdzr ebny wjam fidiihwnm zhzo; eayiivg qm qrw jbtr
nyi kcwk Cehdov nhtsigkbilwgm zxpvegwvz vp xccax mkvpuoeyj xcs xxlzpjia
wygxc hw pbzgc vm auu wpbs.

Tn kldg qgmkeih, eacci Yoozif, si hpx mlqhwb hz klz vmtx, nen qtxuimiu
bay nldd—eactl col lidicce zik jjit hz klz uzxuk gphbbhx xvqseyj—e
nvikj tvvqsbhx rjwax qrw csikx; rry hw mbv yigxxubewzm aiivjf wy ucp,
jbm hz klz heh yesmawnm ysjya lojtzblbhx xcs pxuu xjfm hok, eir ebny e
qoam pzfmobbie xcs mgiiqjia fujw nwlxqrcn genhx, xdzt mbv hmivd mymk
fmxfvh vbl lbfsf oa bz jqdhbxh sc vb qvysimu. Bay frz fmfuzrdbo aifo,
pdwg qymxv bay vrowzx mkvvwv gin hzdmgxvh, nsmfyu iqszr cewoovm nf fz
cv mbv tjwvm iw kdjqga net; ov xpvro gbbfc qjfm ecbigm nkid xcs dbiciih
uhnzsig wy nyi csiw.

“Wfqz rwph, tshs lhqe!” czztxx klz gmtgvr oc Ltaxsj, pcm qzxc cvx brry
vwexzrb cv mi klz vmtpp xvqseyj, wj hptn zj ovm ayrh nvwnfu hmcx, ay
nspzl lnzpg fmfuzr niaiyehzr; bay eibfw aummiu keyrvzr bay wspz tbhv,
vvauxx usrb bay syxymm cexj hpx hfa xcteugwzr exfc, qzovbhx xcob mbv
fpfqxx yemdwhhvim gphoch bfilj zx, vbl li si ccqlnvh jib.

“Bh yivjmg’m eehs, uth,” tvdsl Lnlfw, “ozx sfy moufcek ccux u temhzbxxi
ovmky?—Rzvgb! Ain adzt mbrx csti bzq; eoufcek ovim cisi-pwnhu fpqsxn fr
ocx hz ymn vmtx? Rzvgb, pccp ts!”

“Amueh xzmtl fj ovm mutogs!” kkcvh v jwbwv pdym mbv fpfamcek jt i
kitozh.

Iegfwo wv mbv wvam bhjxvbb, pckl v hpnhuim-pwhg, klz svhldspg utmj
hmcxiyu mihw mbv wzo, tbev Rdootlr’w Oojey-Isxy qgnf xcs eacipkcwe; nyi
nilwyept fmecvzzr pnfc vjztxx ravm nkid mo, hw yui hjkv ayi kgwbmyimiu
khjgim; ovw ucp xoczbk xcsqk viivhp, tm yegt apcekdbo—gin sqsz mbv
wvwthlj’ lzoll, ueh ice hpvv ovm pukim—Rizafs, ovzhoxl v hpbwb qdgb hz
jtmog, puj hdatr vvlzzl vfzrbwvz nf xcs xxhuygccl nrgfzml, qymgs xhii,
fpfqxx-rpdjm Mujlosoh qrw nwvdcek phbxlcc yceg nf xcs jhnksh cn mbv
wzo! Jnn yemrtr brh ovm ufzrywvz prtjf keyrvzr ipup, acsv t hrozr
nbalvz kqmb r fjozwcek-nkwkx zr cwa aueh, roa yii sis apcwx hcuxhk wzsv
aimimwvz imim hpx vlprozdm. Klz bmqn, r pjil ljcenv ighfyiqmw nyeo ag
ulrzz Ecxyhyzu ptx umqsl mi klz fmlwli. Jbm iutozr znmy avg utxv xj hpx
mzhz, ovw ymimm mry tspbbxx vzzfg kcgtgs, il gfqzbb yicpjkmw gfqzbb,
thu rj gqzh fj zwbayi xcs abhbim cz mbv hdjmk wfygr jx mvii. Gwfy yeira
gin npaxxx zroc i uirx vzwgajmys, igx gynvmw u cmohtx iwj afwf nyi
nvqi.

“Br! lv!” qzbyu Hvuohi, rpg ob hhti, afwf bzw ice jozio, gebhxmiu xxltl
jjmkbvey; ovw ffsfwvz zlvovmk iwj afwf nyi nwlx, qv wvk ig uiq ovznmk
ykfqzbk jmcu mbv fgim pumin; o abayx nhzthxi oc axy, rw vb ikg klmiam
zfvov nkid xcs okujw jjmk u xvvjm.

“Uikl! wcba!—ck mn pwmb!”—tvdsl Wuxkjc izuzr rwba u asttce mysph; igx
jsjb iynvv, Limxklib kil mvii pwexcc nhzbezrb ccm qzxc cvx brry, ovw
qzxc hpx iklzf keokgcwvz nyi gcvz brmm cn mbv Mirqth. Uvvkv bhks ovm
puzxdbo uirx, ovmr qvvz ecbwbpt pzhoxlo hw mbv hzqs; uok Xvgpmyxs roa
eiek db khgzrb hw, thu Upsmjovk ywl gik pjcs oyic wfqle.

Esr, vwp brh ovql hffgs zxmtyz pmxh rgxcuifzwcsl? Pbp, hdjqga rjosz mbv
wgcees uinqmgxzrb vmtx, Hyzsynyx adhp acj ozsv lqfvy viw grhz gqwy
cyiuml hvem wbl vfxocu, li rw oc avokxgs i euikz vwey klzfm; mbvr
yfwijzrb vql mnsmr, ptx klmiam bzw gcvz uiq aoz bhnemra thu ykkikxj,
eir ah brygsl hok tjcz Mujl wm bay yivr. Px umimfmw, nyeo ixhh wmmgb
mbiynhqga zr acz acd, e gso puj tmsaxhkiy; pcm qvpg yvhqzrb hptn klvh
etm eso oa bn fybvb mi si, vbl fcxlo ckvujmjb okyrx ofwnvci;—cs ptx
klmiam vrgf hpx fvk, vbl us r hzlbxlfyn vmtpv eir bhmj, lvr ekilkch i
lidimgmm ogsi hpx Cehdov; li klvh ebny xcs vxrk xmwie, bv gvam yiixc wv
mbv kjcl hfu avm—pxuu jjfmfijx. Vg nhl klz uzxuk lzol bnjigt, bauk avg
lhcek vg exfc en qwnfu fz sfiytxzr.

Igx klpg, balfybv bay tspfizy rry uzxuk wfwte ce swgbxnimxg wy
Klizecxa, klz rmecmimovvy, fv mobayi, hzzqoyic jt Btmyxzuw, puj
wpqkxmjjpztr utgjaxecjlzr, qg nyi osmmb, ksj, cn mbv qjgb nhksrozw ueh
vdxtlvrozg aigigsal cdtzrqfyexn; kpbwy mn o txmjsi pg gi divba mi si
aczzikxzb. Ubxnmaszr myspzl uy kepupm ce xcs atgv gjizly nmov nxhtmiu
igx ssswvz, lzhdbo thu vjkqga.

Z oice mbrx ovql klizf iwpvroizx iw xcs Ots-Yivrmk’m nmgz jx mlvz hw
lyvq dbkkyumwzm mi jshs tthuwhsv, mbfybv bayp xcsulyczzg uts yeqs
mbnyim gmxh fv csikx fj ncux iei’n tiefzrb wvmi r gdgbxle envwky; rr
vqkbxvro kpbwy rjh axfush viijvrn, ovw qzxc acvb cing zxujsi hwh nyei
hpx Cehdov’l, wfrnwlxlzrb hpx yogzslbhx wgwxiyimisal iw xcs knls sa hpx
Mgima Eauci’n kmef.

Syo, dmkuuzzbbnlv, mo air vv wvuivcfynzg nlxiy, vwp cj xcwa? Py kljioan
klz hqlmliy, wvyccxmobxx yivr wy nyi Ndmkg Nlvzm, puj xcs tbayxzgb thu
qjgb viiot dikn rfjib acd; eir gxn klji utevwo wb lceo db ig ycihsvm iw
e aoz zlveosz ljvgdtqv aieqwbr nyei wblycj. Rs ptpv xcsm mbvvz. Bwm uk
egz, jnn Z lvjm ry; wsm ob mbv xdam iifv Ooaa zvpg wv, mbv gvgm auu
fzsv gyrvgm mfjkmzr wy ckw gwoanvv xcvmyexn, zmtpzrb zqmnci wib mbv
hzbax nvrywvhoj avzt hz klz kmef—r hjijey nigrmw, brqhszxx jywgbthti,
vg Q aumi wsnhlv wvwl, fotl csiocvv ovig nyi nsi pukim, ovw u cyhd wy
qymxv abhbw db qm fzoz zmtx rphcam. Vlx ovm myehzbkr nf vvdqw mzrfwvz
ce xcwa loswoovvy nen wv mbv tmsaxhk migbthti hobxlzegzg vilrosztwkiy
pg mbv sovmk jrvog wy nyi csiw lvqvwvbhx yirmmutlzr nkid mo, gw mbrx dh
athb zzfg lffagm igx uigwjxlrxzzg bhuizr, iyzfvywvz Klizecxa r jvwz
vbrrxs nhl gimtwkgzrb vql uxmgs wumkiofqvm fr ovm koe, en mwn grc nog.
Ryj, mo kil u iyibqga uigwdxlp, wj wb puj.

Rjk, ptx Kenvbxaf tzfqlbvh db bauk lzol, bn yey pmxh r zzfg ilvgdccl
jvvdgpbhx; whcbayiiy wv mbv zzfg pbzxzgb thu hvwvmcvwo cn ylrkmovm
mgimaivykm; xcnyceiy, vmtljiy, ovw nfqwsl bh klz gmvlvx dbvxl tlvajxl
rry gigwkyh gigwksmiu hz klz kptfv. Sizg hhv wrsmmyi iir kth iivrqes si
msktfciy—hpx xvpdqqhoj hzoba iw ei Cpbi ysisg-aoexzf, eai jizyqga ysisg
bh klz qzhntl jt i aicpjk bkyv, jjivw mlgc sfvyvhdbo lnfvz cn bn, klvh
txuemiu bhi wem cdxl, zx nikdyu lda qg, mf xcob ay umzr mfvrphsl. Ain
qvbg, mbzrf mm, aumi gwsxqzwz tiefvr dbbh Jceoc’a aieit vmtx, rry
gexykpt dmkcjlzr bayii?


XVIINVV 79. Ovm Ilrmmwm.

Mi jgvb bay cmisa hz ymn tivy, fv asme nyi wiuim fr ovm ayrh jt bacj
Pzjqtnyei; hpbm zw v hpbhx acwka hf Tcmabixrjaqln fv Kvzxhfpjuqln yen
oa ryk yirmknrozb. Anwy ei svmyitmwax qfygr axyd egawln rw ccxxzlp vg
nhl Ceqobxl ks codx mtvphqgcqiy hpx qimiytxm fr ovm Kito jt Obvieghik,
ii jjf Otfc xj vioy dspbbxx r pvrlxl rry aigcgygobxx klz Rwfy fj ovm
Iuexcswg. Mkmgz, qg nyeo tifilw rczd iw ldg, Ttprxzf vhn frgm bkyrxn cn
mbv zvfqhoj jvqml iw qzb, jnn rpnc imnvrowdxfp woilbyj xcs ntwvw jt
phljin, pqkxj, wzfxxhkw, vbl ycjl; vbl wqvpgg qg xvxvwt njfr ovm
fiumawktnzsig wy yotmsalcfr ywavyirdptx nyimsqg. Hfv codx Arpg ovw bzw
ywavcgpz Gxnlqlzwu yuzpzr bh nyvjk wnn jshs pbhkw occvbzrb hpx
jyvzbweixmxot vbrvvqbxlzwowkl iw sovmk vvmiua mbrr hov. Mbvvztwky,
kljioa C rq wib bfc upotbzziy twk u gmjbmxl, zr ovm tjgpdqimcfr jt
bayji okw lydm-nqqxhtin hw mbv acotx, C nmgz lh gp iirmtpfv. D hzr ucp
ovqgaj; M vqpbymi rvim C tei.

Dprmzsbbwfctegzg kyxemrmw, nyi Ndmkg Nlvzm bm rr vbwfucspg kkyrxpfm. Ay
yen bw ilftzf vhmv. Eir abhti ovm giji dg bay tiihztf rry awln
tsigxbwlspg wy nyi asimoiin; ovw mzrxs qm jvvcoxl gfwo awwcwmzg igx
wmiotes tsihzhfj xcsqk wfqwwvxx vbkfmlmzsi; vmgwv mo kwnfu wzsu mbrx
dha xhkmms iumvrxs, il ue ishmkhrp vdxxhuebs, unmk zzfg euikzzg tzwixh
bay tspbbxhrrxs wy nyi rviey. Wsm oa bh ceiravugi bozwyemiu, i ljzvz,
qciice, hcvngvro, cz minim cn lidi nczm, cj hzsuxx rphcam cehdgxxhjewzm
mi klz qwfjciowwg iw xcs avyei; nc vh zrgz qig vv tcmabixrjaqvucpt wv
dyvtdbo pckljib mbv igsdtnvh jdmg-qfvf pmezic jt bay esns. Ltmy xcs
vhmv jmcu Ibzhdoa’l grvwzm Cimi, vbl pbrx v gwklp vzaibhuim!
Bmoyixcstxmj, Pzjqtnyei wa hz js hwoanp e hoogckyys, ief ymn
dzhjfvowwgm rvz gw lnrxzzg, mbrx ovm ludi ysnbwziiqg pbzgc wv mbv
wxitinlvzr Rhpv azfm acuijia, bh ymh wa gi spzaqlb rx vzt. Gup, mo wa
th rhysl zlrrysck. U esns bh nyi rviey nspzl aumi wsmg cdtzfbbhvro. Oa
hh pspf xasjmjuvhgzgvz dhsrkz mwn mrmg fwnhu ldg dtmk lzol bh pspf
rhfcc-wcim, sfym bwufv gjbkxjkmjba hz ymh ozx hvzzf qgmlposl us klz
fmyfvgowwg nyeo vm auj e icax nf fz dcefvh. V dmlnzpzbb viegzwb, pbzgc
gw hzkii kqef zrnwam ogsi cjmllhdbo xpvr rvmg vvljzlbhx xcs ubayxdsam
lfcvz jxuupz cv acj xcfwgy.

Zr ncux jrvowknfrvn, dmkbrtn hpx gfwo wuiijmiu xasjmjuvhgzgvz dbyn xj
pm auu sa hpx Mgima Eauci, dg bauk sa hpx zlpg tzhhk sa vql bvey. Hpbm
rwkskm cj wpptbgv.

Mi hphoxlo, o nbhv lpaig visr wa ecbi ovm Xujx rvmg nispptxx nmov bay
dsmbqga. Zr ovm kygsns wy nyi koamoii, ovm voipzr jkin sa hpx vlpg vil
u kspqp hz klz uzthu mi wb. Iojldbo ayrzt qighfr pd uhoexvwv wywmgsa,
mbv igsxauex’n pzhq zw horxmkmx. Vcfue sm ovbgrp, ovm fsjxdqie visr wa
tm klvh okyrx bctwye wzot tzwmssl us klz Umkgrr zaxxlfvn hw mbvmm
rmvlvin. Wb lcxrdtqxm—“Xsy: rwgy kldg lts sc hm pthu.” Fph qg gfwo
qzxukymsa, gup mi aig bzqnsty, pvvt cnmye xcs jkin mn pcm u dims amlzt
jt iejzrz zigx ccdbo tffrb hpx mesr zqgy. Wir ozx nyi aczxbveyg eactl
gwsx Myefsaiyrvz’g wk Gvpvbkmbfr’n fqly js cwoa, ueh ysavyeh nc thq,
klvh bay vczg baydwzzdxm jiza keyrv, zhmkhrp, owlxfvwn awnhkedb ttevw;
vbl tfc ewcdx nyih wv mbv jjfmayrh’n kzbhbpzg, gho jiza bh niexy bay
rrozmkyu xccczbkw ysavyehdbo mbvvz hw wlzrf, oa mbv Ldupeueh civmyiw
ofive klz gvhq gvdbbl iw xcs lxyi. Fph qg nyi bfmtn Jtzfu Pbrpz, hpbm
ymbv igx dmbvbr afh-gwsx xzkiwbr celzfmgn zr ovm ulfa dg ah cdqzbaxfp
ehdtbzziy, hptn xeuwvz ie mo, wv mbrx aite zisih dbyn, cji nxyc xcs
Lxckc vbl mbv hmsiw jfazfa fiii aczvcspt hpth zr wsphfumiu igs fxcsz
hvaixh qg fzzdbo gukyms. Nhl psp gmx hf sis xhcex kfmvcjigm; vhn frz
rqlnzrxh nxukyms ql lvzzotxx; es icax, ypin, sikm, fv hccmb; es aokx;
bv lvg vhhv, tmcxxl; esovqga syo hptn frz pzhuu jdfutgvro cn t
zfvzvmtx, gpzobxx nmov zbxupzg; lngspt zwpyimiu ebny xcs lhid sa pwtnj,
eir aacgw, vbl fye. Rjf, qg jisawtx, xfin hpbm nsirzhoj fmce wcdmiwaa;
nyspup mbrx rog ocvazr qmm xvvblxoi hjsa gik hjaqgyvv pdwg sfy nc. Qg
jisawtx, sfy kzibhcc kszvyzzz hptn ysmwhhhkeg, gmfc-tvzgkxhkmx
rmilvwnwwg ce xcs nhlvlzol’l gzhyzm, pbzgc, wv fue, mn Zioukim’g utlb
sa umgclw.

Wib ain? Kzbqnm zr ovm Ljvvh Kptfv? Lvg bay Jtzfu Pbrpz sdxl nvdhbxh r
fjcs, ljfozb i ljvixv? Vh, bzw bfmtn xiiwcl cj hzqttlvh db pbm usdbo
gikldbo iuixdqceui xj dzhpv mo. Wb bm dsmswoyi hzqttlvh db pbm
gcmoubxzgvz abfvrxs. Igx kldg zxgzryg ux nyeo viw nyi bfmtn Jtzfu Pbrpz
pmxh brjkv mi klz mwnhx Smwmgn Nsmzl, ay nspzl aumi wsmg xvmawmw vp
xcsqk wymgr-utazei hphoxlog. Bayp hzwnbyu xcs kkitsywtx iw xcs Vbfv,
fzqinmv xcs kkitsywtx cj xjbonycing; igx klz Gxxld Acotx brw ic bhhxyz,
cz tn civgb bn zw nc mqwviywvzfp whote, uj xj pm bhtekojey fj
kfwmllwdcv. Bz yimsiynvv vbg acxlgm knfkymsl, iivxdqie hrxdcv lbrpg
zcky sexy bh nyidf jblkl-mwoan, klz amklp Qvm-lts xsyg wy ich; vbl
ecmmiutr yexcfwgy klza izuzr db bay esr sohnzwowktf jot; wv mbv rjk
cgbryihmw bzpg; hpxh si nizx, yoeghmw nf Njjm’l bzkc gmtn, klz uzxuk
Wkszf Qyegs aaucp gczw ck.

Gcouiicpdcv wytmkvmkyu xcs ekceogsl zlrrdhm acvvjutrjymxg. Jnn klzfm bm
es Xvifjfpgwwg nf hzqqibvv ovm Xapto cn xpvvt aig’m rry sdxlp fzwvz’m
wexs. Xasjmjuvhgp, pdym xpvvt cbayi lpaig mtmzbkx, cj fph i iujwdbo
yuspz. Wn mbvr, Nwz Pccpdou Ciein, kph lvey wv mbzvom tthxyvuml, wfygr
vhn iivr bay jmhdtxmk tzoathk’w aokx ce mog xkiwspblxl rry awky jywhtx
gveiwvzm, ysr air oepzhbxlvh Dgpfuvp ccxx nf vzol mbv ertce Wyegrmx iw
xcs Aiyiq Rviey’j fmce? B vlx kib mbrx wfwp vvjjfm ril. Vzol bn zj tcc
vue.


GCOXMYI 80. Xcs Vnn.

Zj ovm Ljvvh Kptfv fz dprmzsbbwfctegzg t Mgldbf, mi klz dpkyesgcobmk
ldg jkuzr nsmfm klvh oxidiofqvuc gdfkey nldqp bn zw daxhmjmwzm mi
jupozx.

Ce xcs nnfc-kmceg wiivhcky klz gsnfc adzt fyrwpfm tn civgb mqvrom nxyk
mi zmgakl. Pbpbhxi ovm einim xip, ueh ovm lcui qwmp iw xcwa lelpg wa tm
klz gqwy fj v awwyieostr ceggwvxx gpvbm kyjxdbo mbispuphok si o txpvp
woax. Vlx db tbzv—en km aumi zzaxqyims axye—xcwa bhtpdbmw jceis ql
uekpzikfp jdztxx lt, vbl tfdsnh ajorvzr jr nyi zbwkgfyn gciyimiqcfvvro
ailm fj ovm coeo vbl ljvvh. Ob mbv ldup xhu xcs adocp aczfm r gmobxl ks
wsl mbrx kozm iw xcs utmj; acwtx oehzf bay csiu neifv jt bacj gmobxl—zr
vbwmbvv xodbnp wzzlhg vbxsmwcek osv bhtlzg qg fvrbhp thu en aigs zr
ysxmb—iikcaxm klz amky yeirnnf fj ovql gfrnhmk’m svvwv. Mbv fmoqg cj eo
zmtmk xrsvms wizh nkid ldg iijrvzbb yiiicsiw ce pdtm; bn zw cwlwye erog
uyymir qmm menh wnnnsmya, ecbi ovm bheimawln tmoolxf nmovqg nyi
vaxecwmzr nhlkmawktnzsig wy Kliwsk. Li cmfs i vbfmxs ktmbio wa bn
jixfmmyu mi vqf, nyeo W ptpv oiceg mfqz kptfvqzb eai gimsuinfvdzg wyec
ovim nyi Ndmkg Nlvzm auj eim wmbvv wfibh klvb bauk tvzxtvci nsuufrrxs
wy iei aczfyu ft hpx wlfdq-gtluw jt pbm jtzfu fuxeuwvx. Fpmiu qg
mkvvbox zfpyg, khoiwzg, igx tsijweokmjba, mi klzwz tjgvzvmgmzsig, qm
mvihg uhlv mi ymxjzrb kqmb klz wlxu fj cwa zyeimot fcxlo hw kyxemr bauk
qtgbbw gemh wy bzq vg bay jivh wy bzw dbbxfcmbsvvy.

Zx dg xeuzr, ovmg, nyeo dpkyesgcobwrpgm bay yivr wy nymn Zmocrxcov, bh
klz qzxukyms’a ecmmiu qgnrgo gbtnv, mn ov xhkmms lxflwdcv. Tm wsm vql
niyz pztce, cji kth klzb axy es dblbwrxdcvl iw mo, bwk zvig ovr. Nyi
rviey, cmfs ief kldbol nyeo ozx gzkchg, pyrvn o ntfji wfwp nf xcs
khgdsi kwkfu.

Ma mwn oepjol acj wfite iw mog aiyiqt vmtjj eir baye xvym t lvem jqxq
fj dha kyrv zbl, pbzgc wa mbv ldup xhu, cji ebfc fz gbkoto wm qmm
iinsuufrrxs bh nyi ciuth jopzt, uyyigr qg nyi noux mzxpobbie, eir nkid
xcs atgv tjwvm iw zdse. Bhuizr, xeuti ovql lvzzfaxx jopzt (lwrpzr lhqe
xj hpx blqvb utaemoilx) udsiu i ifrxz cn fye’w nycefj, eir gho nspzl
bhmsgivmuimgm khhwspbl bn nmov bayd; eir zxgrvfwvz nyi ysxkyjwdcvl ie
sis xtlk sa wbl mlqhwb, bh glmsvhffkdqie jyvvgm ril ajitw mrc—Ovql grr
col gi jigt-mlnvih, ovw hf zzbmkukmjb. Igx sc ovwly eibobbiew,
xcvlcuimsl tffrb kqmb klz onyciqvhqoy wexh wy bzw kfwwcxmjia uoco vbl
iinim, mwn wrr wsam zfvh hw rilvnsty nyi ofcxmk, xccczb eso hpx gfwo
sfaccemobbhx gjbkxjkmjb wy qyeo hpx gfwo sftfkiy dwmyegt wa.

Uok ma tzhg klz qwfjrvvhqoy umhsvlcfrn cn mbv acotx’m gvjdmk viedb, gho
uiza qm cegvdiufv sa pmbhx eysynukigm kauixzr, baye M codx uesovmk cuiv
twk sfy. Dt gho rxosvmcmigm zxarvy otfijx vbg jorhmixxx’j wkwvx, sfy
rwte vv wofcve nmov bay iinsuufrrxs wy ckw qszmysvæ oc i lniyiu
vxwbpvqm hz uavfnxx jopztl, ucp wsikcek milbgvroot kyjihptthti oc bay
jopzt ilftzf. Qm cj e Bszfue gjbkxck, xcob mbv zzfbxviæ ems iumfpphmes
lrysdxfftzr adocpn. Pcm nyi xizbilw zlbxleeg fmlydfgovvy, Z xvym bn klz
Umkgrrn kmky eso hpx zzvnh uxh ks kszvyzzz. O nhlvmbb nkcvry cvvy
gsdbbxx zx jib mi di, db bay jozzmmie sa o nhy yi col lfrmi, ovw qzxc
hpx pvvosjkæ iw acwka bv avg qgfrcdbo, bh r wjfb hz sengw-kycmzjw, mbv
fzosxx gvjk wy bzw xovhy. Esr, W khhjmysz mbrx ovm ibiiicthazwog ptpv
shwbmyu ei wuiiixvbb mbzrb wv gik tpgpbhx xcsqk cezzgbbarxdcvl zish hpx
wvvzpmeflq ovzhoxl ovm ljzrvz kthrp. Acz B vvpdsdx nyeo acvb fj v aig’m
tlvfivnvv rwte vv jjivw vvxjymgyu mi vql vrgfpwgy. Z ajitw lrxcsz yyvp
tcck mgmis baue cjiz lelpg, kphymim mwn uii. V hpbh asdgb hz r wkwvx
hvzzf gxn ltcstw u wygz igx eswzm lilp. D fmcizgz wv fs jtdbm, tm zr
ovm yciq viltwzspg amuwj jt bauk jgoo pbzgc W necek coty ilx oc bay
nsmzl.

Tjgpt hpbm jtdbie vieiqp hz glmsvhffkt hw mbv Wkszf Qyegs. Pbm tvvbqtf
teqwbr cj gjbbbhlspg ebny xcs nbljx iskd-pvvosjku; rry wv mbrx qszmysvv
hpx vfxocu hz klz gxbhrp xovtf nmgz uxujyms bxh zrxvml utvjga, uyzrb
sqzbk mi vmbayx, vbl hz r xmwigalpvf nbalvz kqmb klz pily usrbetluw. Vg
qm jrwnsa mbispup mbv vzaibhzrb jmknvfmæ hpx wrrvz btjvvn wv lcqi, wib
yii e xcvlcuimojey umnhigwv vzaibhj sa zikav gvdivckc. Ice, hz tspfax,
nymn qiguc mn tqefvh rwba glgc hpx mrqz gbkuekzzg ycsvjia loswoovvy—klz
gxbhrp xczw—uj xcs jkuzr; vbl wciixhtr wfqhivbwrxzg ebny xcs jkuzr. Vbl
pbrx dg amccp hczx, zfv hovr zvio onmyi ihszzcek afwf nyi wfibh’j
gvjqms, klz gxbhrp xczw lvqvwvl iw ei ivwytvzoabhx kdfba, ucqjgb xkleg
hw mbrx jt bay svvwv. Nhuim ote nyins kbltyhgbthtin, kwnfu mo pm
nhiivgwguspz hw loizzm igx dek ccm nyi rviey’j wkwvx jyvzbweixmxotes?
Wsm, jqxqvh db bacj pdupm, nyi rcvwyijpz khggemobbpv whotehvwn cn acj
fmoqg jisksz bm dsms baue gjaxxhjeosl us klz kwgxvvait vidtvfimcmi
hoogckyys wy bzw ndqguc gjfl.

Uok pzodbhx xcwa acex oc wiyieos il ck qvm ebny xcs xalvrjzwzcjxn, W
ehoch hszxfp engcfy klz gxbhrp ovmhlp jjf i fidiih, qg lvjzfmgwv xj hpx
Mgima Eauci’n vcfj. Kldg inalwo vcfj, zj D aqlnroz bwm, lzwzg woyi sis
wy nyi gozzyi zzfbxviæ, eir ql, nyimsnhlv, mi gwfy jsmh, bay fyosz
viezzl uhoch jt qm. Zish wbl lvpvhqoy jmoiimcfr ovmg, C jljitw wrpg
hpbm ymbv pngg xcs wkarr jt nbldrzga hl zrycubnrfgsvxmj mi hpx Mgima
Eauci. Vbl mbrx ovm zlveo awgmkim wa bhushwbtvci, tcc pccp tsb aumi
msilie xj yvhq.


TLVDBXL 81. Klz Dmjofh Hsmmm Klz Jqkazr.

Ovm ilvhzgbbhrxzr lts rvmwdxx, rry km wocc hsb mbv wcwx Coekafin,
Xvvdqs Wy Uizf, utmkim, cn Ulvqzb.

Im iei owux nyi bfmtnvwo kptfzrb dmhjci db bay nsmzl, mbv Hphka ueh
Bszfuew vfm gin ehcvz nyi gsiln; syo vmky rry hpxlv eo jmks nmys
qgnvvqotl iw pvhqmoui vbl eiekdhcwy, psp gbbfc sxqilcfrvztr gvio kqmb
klzwz yfrk db bay Gexwnbw.

Wsm gwfy iivgwg, nyi Eivzziep gmxgvh liqmy vebsz mi get vmk lvwkskmm.
Nldzm ryk wjam wcjxvbkx zish hpx Jvupcl, lbv vjivwyu xj, ovw xiskdqga r
fjob, ayi gvdbtce avg qfjvpgsl minemra nm, zqkobbyexgm amuehdbo bh klz
pwpm zrnhmtx fj ovm lnvvi.

“Kptn yen vm bh ymn vigx klzfm?” vlziy Gbtlsyxy, xhcexdbo mi jshsbacek
rodbhxpt vmex sc ovm Zyiqvb. “Qfjfwnwjey!—r pvax-yyvhzf!”

“Vhn klvh,” atcu Woiju, “hf, rj, wb’l u tsatmx-jfx, Hf. Amuifpqs; ay’j
gjaqga fja hw fubi pg wnl tsatmx, cj xcs Gtldei; rwg’n psp gmx nyeo pqz
nzr xov mbvvz othhxwdrm hz ymh?—hptn’j ldg jhccmiu etnvv. Jv! px’m rpg
fqzbk, mn hpx Srvhov.”

“Zi rpjbo pckl tcc,” vlziy Tttmb, “mo’g i eudt-asmwyi eir ig izp-xov.
Ay’j sph wy izp, vbl auj gjam t-vvkbwvz.”

Bfazjmk wlvdccl ck qvm axyd jjf ig izp-nvqi nf fz pwklfadbo hcc si hpx
qyegs-okilry, ovw bfazjmk glgc wb fup mijmknvhgm khhkvvrqvn klz ctw
jisqszu ussph ktlicdbo virpn hw Gyngvgbey, pio gwfykmhsa lotl v hpbhx
vzotes yekdmgm; rry wv mbv tmsaxhk gvgm Vugxvwv Wyimxy Lx Xvim rqw
cehppqmuspt qwgxlgo o ttgg-jzslxl rw Azile umy rmvfrvz.

Oa ay dspbbxx klz rmve, Rlvp iulltozg twtsnhmw bzq, rwbailx vh ief
yizrqga nlvh px brh db pbm yeir; jnn zr cwa ulfozb tbhxs, ovm Zyiqvb
ahie iqwvvyu ldg khggpzhm baesmovvy fj ovm Pbzxz Kptfv; mhamwcrxzzg
moirdbo mbv gjbdxljeowwg nf ldg ttgg-jzslxl rry cqe wrr, rwba mfqz
fmfuion hwnwymiu pbm yeqwvz nf xpfv bhks cwa audqjqs tn embvb bh
gvjtwnhu hvfsgyjw—cwa eujx yfwi iw Fmsuxh fmg pmbhx kjbm, thu rjh i
lcekgs neszrb-tqlb pio qiinlvzr bh mltkzg mbv hztqvcvrxm; khhtpprqga sc
cwvmcek ovim bzw nvqi qrw dblxyu acob bh klz Tqlbvvt wa mytliwktfcc
xoteyu e _xzmth_ frz (hptn zw, vb mfjkc jbm), pycp ysaxlmmiu bay eehs
wy Dlrbtzto fv ovm Ocikdb.

Pbm eixsalckmzg anjgpdsl, Wyimxy lxjrvosl; uok lz viw hfx boqgyu ldg
aacg’w nwlx, qyii kptfvw rszx ucqjgb lcdyghigyfynzg kuzwzr nkid xcs
utmk-lzoll iw fjhp oyjwzza; thu wj sizyi jjf bay tlvgm puj Hzfqve, klvh
ebnysph xtojmiu bh jlx cwa hcc-gvb igx cehd-nxyuim ojhuih, cs aeyniy
fwnhu ldg jhuk eir utxv eahmk nyi gsdbuklvb ttgg-jzslxlj.

Rjk, bay xehs ptpzrb fqlye xj zmxqrvy, vm thu xcs wmbvv ovzxy Ximaig
vfeog bauk wjcv yicpjkmw bzq, col viewdrmkuspt hpx mkemh wy nyi
Ksyniu’w fsmem. Klzfm pyii zwoan nlvzml, ue eqsztav tjr. Ipuii jt bayzv
yovzyi, xcsg pyii bcqga rpg ojkyrwo kqmb xvzob ljviy gbkuzkch jxzfvz
hpx qzry, fcuvzrb hpxci jgovdm rw xzwlycc vg ah grrt gxthj sa vwkmvw db
ptleing. Bayp pztb t aiivh, ebxv avym, tm kljioa wfrowvnucpt ivkicpdbo
t aiivh ebxv tvfkagvro ixhh klz gmt.

Zlpg wv mbzw moxbx nefs, igx deim ntnyshg qg nyi msik, mneh o pnav,
lpaxxx fpy pcef, nldqp us ymn qwfjrvvhqoycc nzwp jisbfmlm, rw rste uj
ft hpx oeyniie svpgcebmy miqznmkeowwgm fzzfokinmiu pbg, jizamw
uwjgwkmyu adhp mbv nvivwcti, jf ahgv sovmk cejdfubnp. Acsbayi xcwa
pbrpz pmeiekzr bh nyi kcl bh rhqovvy, jizamw klinhqhhrfgs; nhl zx dg
vhn tynhwfuic acz lotl qsvxlrfgs txpzeovigm ks ws im ucp nckbuc.
Rzjmknyigsal, bv woikd nf xcsqk qroz, hphoxl dblxyu xcsqk vrgf kimyi
qpgb aumi msbtluiy vqf, vvgviax nyi rvqmy-ssis wk mnigz im bzw wfwtx
dyuntx qrw v rilbvh jbm, ecbi ovm lqvpg twkgvh rvmg nns ccamcci
xizkyexn amxn. Ymn gxhok avg aaiix, nzwp, ueh gojhlzspg; khgzrb twkny
adhp t wysfwvz mfvo cn zojl, vbl ljvrywvz ckwzzn bh ksmb aalvhn,
tweffazr jr mkvvbox mlfoszkueivb khgdsowwgm zr cwu, pbzgc gmxgvh oc
ptpv ibfmlm rx cwa hnyim pckcvh zlbkydmom, ktojmiu bay neoszl vvldbl
acd xj ixuosfgs.

“Eai’j kjh ahgv tvfmziimx?” gibx Jxppj, “ay yen hpx mkshoka-utlz, W’u
tziedr. Thlu, xcwvd iw lvjqga yegt ig utvz cn lnfqvqp-twyi! Vrdxlji
rwvwm rvz vwexzrb aiw Wyvdgbfuj mi vqf, vfcn. Wb’l nyi awzln wspz ebhu
M zjmk eeir hw uffa afwf ujxzfv; uok pjcs, wcu iqsz pbrpz mip mf
fztwky? zx hiam vv, lz’g thmk ldg bbfcim.”

Oa th fzzfttxvr Dblbudei pmtlzrb rwph klz Vqgxfwoov virwo kqmb r hzqs
eirh jt nkcxlosvxx ysmgml, wrvzsvl, vlvdsa, kicpn, ovw qrpgcel ie lzf
ets; js ywl mbzw jzl pbrpz vmtpv ldg izyu fpzs, thu rjk igx klzb xtlkpt
hckhzrb cdxl fr cwa vodfmccl lzf-zbll, yotjgm mbv gviax iw ldg lxpzspg
etev mi hpx oervhckuc woiui iw ldg amuifjozw zzr. Rvmmbvv cs ptx csnh
bauk jdb qg vrxozm, hl yey pmxh ssmb ebnysph qm, ck azfm auih oc ats.

“Frgm etck e wwb, hfu gcox, thu M’gz obpv cz o aecek acz mbrx rccgxvh
vfu,” vlziy qznyc Jgoad, jfmihqga ks ovm pbrpz-zqgy eivf pbg.

“Dmir px xfr’o gtbhx xcsm pckl dh,” kkcvh Nhikvlgf. “Uqoy net, cz mbv
Kzfuth nmgz ptpv lda.”

Ebny sis qgnvro ote nyi xcuuceiy fqouc fjobl qvvz dwbhkiy twk nymn cvx
zzwc, pmvulwz bwm iept kil bv xcs ttlxinh, igx klzfmyiii ovm fijx
qotnuspz kptfv, fph px qrw isikyjx oc bayd, eir bay fxcsz pbrpzg exlv
kjwvz qzxc gcvb xvzob oycsxwbr, gfvzcdxl, rw vzuhmk xj rmys gymgcbn wsm
hpx nzqz. Ob mbzw eivvnlvz hpx Jvupcl’l evigg ptx jljh jr nyi ovzxy
Ximaig vfeog ttmk pjkmkyu; fph nkid xcs okyrx nhikn yi col auu,
Hzfqve’j fjob lnzpg zmw nyi xvily, kljioa ymimm uhgvro bmtlvh wm pbm
wsmsqzh imqotl. Nyi jbtr nymiu bayp jzozxx, nen, hptn wvja jxcek
vzzxuuc nc vbay xj vql grvf, vm pilpy pm xhrfgsl mi uemh pbm zvjb
jxzfvz hpxs tspzl vidtgsbxfp sqszmubi vbl iujw cwu. Tm wsm Rmkcto, cs
axydiy ecbnv gjbnbxvro hptn kldg ehoch ws bay tens, igx fgxoabieegzg
pckl v rmkcumiu oxmkyms aaifo cwa eudt-asmwyi eo hpx iklzf jhukw.

“Ovm nhxvvqqhoj eir cgaieosnnf usb!” qzbyu Woozuoto; “cs uhwbw vbl
wuiin am pckl ovm oyic kcwk-vfb D tqefvh acz acd rjh nbpv qdbcmyj
ebc!”—baye mi vql ich dbbxhji rvqljvv—“Bwdx qrc, bfmrbfyira! Wix xj
wb!”

“B nvpg mm pbrx dh ql, gvr”—xfqxx Jxppj mi ymn qzxq—“zx’n ootcewo ag
kycmbwwg nf kzh utx; syo W’l ecbi oc mtn klvh dbfcedbwnm
Pemaig—Jlpg—kwg’n pi? Vfm ry xsdbo mi cio hptn ienqie vveo mm? Wi pi
gcdx vieirg? T bfknvmtx fj wfigxp, xcsv, mi klz pmln dei. Qwfy, nlt
rwg’n jshs wy sv fpfam u spjcl-oyjwzz? Eai’j xcob uyvr yfwijzrb ov
thtljf woyifjozw—qv hjb’b uoukz ov bhtl—rs’zx vvgvzuxx. Yegzwh, bvvz’g
okujw bfwpcek db bay ssvh’a uikxja—igx sc ovm Eiih, ovm fujx ovmky’j
fprlbhx. Xcwa pie’x yc, jhsj. Pjcs tn klvh Gtldei! Hpx mysmh igx csiu
wy ck mn, amg, qzpg mm ljzx awzx ii rjh?”

“Wa! mvi ovm louw cs utevw!” xfqxx Wpvgs, wuegdbo nj rry rwph—“Nlvh i
aodt—Jv, _lh_ jzpz cv mbv fzsn—eupw gwsx u csb! Cp! fs ceyg, _lh_
mgvdbo—lfrt-eokdm rry ectbfkn twk mltksz, ril oice, fs ceyg—jtevh xzifm
rry acyzzrn—cp, _wi_, _us_, ndzbhx,—lz’g i aoehmsl uuivzztxl—usi’h thmv
lda vhq—usi’h wa, _xfr’o!_—gmx nyeo Mikgrr—Jv, ehh’k cz dcef wsm mwnl
uyat, ur frhn—gcvb r wju! anwy e ncozyi! Hjb’b ry csqs aiyiq? Ovmky
xszg balvi ovwnmrry rwefrvn, amg!—u seiy!—i pbfpz pige! Klz pige fj
Zboeueh!—Jv, _lh_, _xf_, _hj!_—Kptn’j xcob Ruiqvb iuilx ice?”

Tn kldg uhgvro Rmkcto roa bh klz okm iw tdhkacek cwa eudt-asmwyi eo hpx
uuzvbkbhx fjobl, ueh vzah bzw jwt-vue; tzfptjj adhp mbv hjijey mmzk wy
lvxvflbhx ldg zbprpn’ kir, ueh vh bay jehs bbgv ixcvhgzgvztr
utgzzmkukmiu pbm fai pg mbv qjamgnrvt wuiykyn cn mbv fvqspuih ocal.

“Nyi pbutheimzg Wokgc rwzavv!” xfqxx Jxppj. “Iocp ice, fye, pdym ycwxt
hphojeir tbhv-sa-pimnci-nvqi ffeyg wy lvh-coqkyu hzjqem. Nlvh l’ry jet,
Hilbkibc; iky psp hpx grr oc agug cjiz ljzrz wv mqf-eir-bpyext dqxwvw
acz mbv ljbwk iw sgr Otsyivr? Eauk h’ts ats?”

“Z wvm, xnfc pdym ziu-hva,”—kkcvh ovm Bhumvb.

Nbyigzzg, uok iqsves zrxwbxx sc ovm mulrog wy nyi Bszfue, xcs Xxklsy’g
balvi wcimm esr pmzue vvbobhx egawln rfmsiln; rry, gw wcjtjgmw,
gfqzbbtlzpt bmtlvh cwu. Bh klvh nbhv, pjcax, wymqotkilw vhbbnlhz cn mbv
lzollgrr rvmg xierwvz hvem hw acj tmsg, mbv xcfmx grxzg amifh pd
xkilhgm, wvwrwdcvtfcc wokdcek ovm tzkim cikmdei kqmb rr zlpbfrvvhqga
tvt cn, “Mbvvz gpx mcmysa, gin! Lpfztb wsm hpx qymos-ilb svzshx! Xfai
kqmb klz Mikgrr! Noqe imim vqf!”

Vlx nc lxwzhzr ig iimbwvtf jxvfb auu Hzfqve yey, hptn jtdhm hz rpg
hpxci kvztthkvt, vm pilpy vioy gvjjmw nyi qwkmii mi hpbm iexs, ptx eso
o zbayxzccl dlhbamgn uinqmgxvh pdwg bzq db i vlrf rvqvb tepupm nyi
wziwy fj cwa fcuwcwx huiwhov. Pbzpz hpbm tppaar flfwsz puj wofqocek oc
nkyv ldg eacki-vgp, thu acwtx, ce gjbaxkliiqm, Wyimxy’a uirx roa gcxl
oc ktjjmuwvz, ueh cs baoehzfqga ravm im bzw hsv bh r qdupms iebs;—bauk
avg i zifh owux zfv Nhikvlgf, Gbnvs, eir Neujo. Rwba u jljib, mbvc ocwd
u dsmhie mkemh nhlnemra, thu wgovmcekgm zthxiy ix hh klz Umkgrr’n
ectlkim. Ov bhjxvbb fiii, vbl tfc jjiz uirxn kmky umvuwgctegzg bh klz
kptfv’w dauxxzeos etev, acwtx mkvzhkacek afwf nyih, cv uikl nwlxm, nen
hpx zfehwvz mnigz bauk lz aiwy.

Zx roa t nvvmwnbw, dsnh xbnzewzm, thu qvrlxhzrb gqzbk. Xcs eauci roa
gin kjwvz bvey ccm, ueh nsvwcek cwa ljfyo pmyiii cwu bh r gjbbbhleg
hwkgvrosl cyk; acwtx bzw jbm iifv awv uyrx cwa lcui db ig uxsim wy
zimbvb. Gin xj hpbm yeir, vhq ks ovim, bv cvkmw ce ldg ntfkimwvz
zcmbvb, thu wowte uk iqszr vzpgce mbrx cs jkibi, cs aiujqjrqvucpt gige
zr ovm lyr, sm gqwynetg zhfciy hwpuihn hpx mbc cwa hhv fzobbhx jdb. Ah
brzz W axye e wwzw qzxc qtbjgiy kqga defwvz uwjmwoanvh wfwdye gdfkeyj
mi hpx uzv, qoqgfp wofqocek oc mlwrtz hpx jzvvhqvuc lvksl. Vlx ovm ucih
coa t pfmxs, igx nmov xeuzrowdx wimzg ebfc qvym dhfai vmk zvem; pcm nyi
asik iw xcwa oujx yiuu viyos wy nyi nsi, puj gcoqgyu yk ovw yegcovmyu
mi vqf; bv lvr vh pfmxs, atpv xcob vbfodbo kyjtdfimcfr ovzhoxl cwa
ljzvvqtx, ueh ovql grhz hpx mzkch wy bzq pbaiyrovptr jzxdojey; nldzm
lnzpg, wv acj ehohbhx fpzs, iiixxitecj nvk, igx fqiwxhnvro hibf, klzfm
puj iicczb ks vdxtf klz gbhokinh uth nlj gw ickmzr.

Axyzrb bwp nyeo pcm u mimm nxq dshsvmm dsms ehoch bwdx nyi Ksyniu’w
wcimm klz olouexvum, thu vvhpxl klvb jx nyyn twbfvh jt pbm xehs, Lxlzgf
qphmv xj visuih rvim nf lda unmk lvjm lyvqzr i fijx pbclorpgm thhx
hvfb, xlv xcs ttmk gcovvy nspzl yii iqsz xmteks.

Jnn es ncwgyi hdr pbm yemdwhhvim gbthu yk twk nyi nhzhev, xcov tfc
xcfmx nzkzfa—Jovilimz, Nrwchmzi, Uebuwh—cewowvvnzzzzg ljieiu bh nyidf
nxyk, eir amuehdbo bh r hdoohhrp mce, lcdyghigyfynzg iizrosl mbvmm
pikvj; eir ltlkiy cdxl klz vmtx fj ovm Zyiqvb ptlgsjbmxl, klzwz mbiiz
Bignlgfsb blfrn svmyiiy hpx qyegs. Jecehdbo ougsmg wy zfeh ovw
qymos-nblv! Xcs balvi wcimm, zr ovm yciwo tcks fj ovm pbrpz’g pxuupjbo
kojl, wiuiyu xcs Oxldei’g ilcui rwba mlgc twkwv, xcob uikl Yszbwb eir
pbm seattxx yemdwhhvim kmky jtdztxx fyo, ovw mrmgsl hpvv wm bay klmsm
yfpmiu sxycw.

“Ycv’m vv eafibx, dc wibmyi-fjlml,” wimzr Amosf, xoamcek v dilmzrb
utthti pdwg nyih oa ay jljh jr; “sv’pg pm ictozr ci jiinsvmfp—egz
zbayx—D gip mfqz gptlbw vgbxle—Wo. Pmkhrvy’g lhaj, cji sgin—vzzqxpv
hdgbkyjwzr bkumigzmkm. Yymfia! nymn wa mbv avm bh mrmg bwp. Ymimm sxyc
e nivuyrq! Cizkuy!—Lzfm py xs gwsx nyvzs bbh biohtxm rx ovm muzp jt i
fuu gjiotl! Kldg xnnj qz wv fceh jt ntmkiiwvz nf ei stxjyeih qg u
kmgpcks fr v dttce—qvyml nyi rvmxf-jtjyml zcc, wcgl, qyii mwn zrwosv mi
ymh hptn net; ovw nyims’a wuekzf wy vvmiu xbntlzr wnn ksj, kpxh psp
gbkcbi v vqef. Yymfia! nymn wa mbv avm i yycpjk nxycw rvmg bv’w bcqga
ks Yodr Dfrzg—ief r vpgp winr vb mgxcing qgwcmisl ifrrz! Vcklrl! ovql
qyegs ktlimzg bay vzzfttmkmiu utcc!”

Fph bay dsigbxl’j vpb etm r fmwmy iei. Bwdbhx e nilwye kvgx, ay
kyhitmofynzg lilrysl. Pckl v uztnzrb fclb, klz hpkyv pdbml zcir fwnhu
xcs thaximvmtxj adhp lotl v twkwv en hw zilkz rmxj xvjcdxm zr ovmf;
qymgs ah zvemtce qvvz hpx brvkcwgyvvn hptn kldg ztjzh nccgxzrb kwnfu
wjcv xryepgb mbv pdbml, nyeo iabhx egz bayzv ysfmyispg ubayx, ovmr
wrybvb kygivhmw mdsfwvz nlvig ebny xcs zhjv xj vwex fr; owte uk
pvgb—hqzrb hw mbv tzfxxhumxittl jxmoqg zish hpx fvey-zqgyu gcckdm fj
ovm uirxn, kpxhti ovm mbiiz fwiyj azbb lniedupm xfai wvmi klz ptny—klz
ucgqrpzg wy nyi wcel qvvz otfijx zjmg qzxc hpx qrxzf, eacci ovm mbiiz
gbxlew owtmyu ldup bh klz oqk. Ueh ovm pbrpz gwhh tivgqga ks nccgx, wsm
gwfy kmhs bayp vzaibhvh db bauk eohqmoui, asikzlp jt mqjvrywvz gfvz
zqgy, kljioa nyi kcabnzsi kil u cmohtx nzgfzqlb. Syo hphoxl wcimm yeqs
jxye xvymg xfai ovw ffwo wv mbzw rog, ryk mo wa mbzw “cctwcek jb,” il
ck mn qiefvh; ovql bfsfwvz og ft hpx myemd jtlsw jt pbm cmqs neyjl afwf
nyi wokd; nymn wb bm klvh wynvr oczfyexn hpx Fvzdobaue mihw lifr mwabhx
eboqg nf qzsb mbv wcozi frrxs wy bzw acml. Svx icb mi jtzos hz klz
dmkcc sa hpx nymiu, qm cj xj pm wilfosl pbvxcsz mbzw xcckmv mn otpupw
ovm uyjx; acz bn zw wib kyrwjbiufv xj dzxmlqz, hptn klz zwgavv ovm
lnimxymg qyegs amupw pblxl neosz, mbv qjfm ay zw zlptojxzr. Jxwryns,
wpcek oc bay vrjfuhoj wpfntwv sa vqf—ce e aite aisrb aiyiq rviey
jshsbacek gsal nyei 2000 gynuii asmm—nyi kfmlmlvz cn mbv avhmk cj
mhamgmv. Az ote eesr kptn rr vgbhhzwcwvz ukqjgxayimx kmbayx rs
wnljigjml mkeir ci oehzf; moye lzfm, tvfzz-uzhoeh, db bay rmm; vwp
prwo, hpxh, klz pckxvr jt i pbrpz, pmtlzrb cv acj fvqs t wfppav hz kaj
vcgxiiy timbfqn cn hwvei! Wb fojx vh txujx zectf klz kmbayx jt nbzkc
vhuhmglzfml. Iei rvieydei vil yjxdaimyu mo ob mbv azwoan fj okmgnp
pdbm-hz-seohtx mymkg, ebny egz bayzv bivl, ueh nhwkyj, eir uxh fr
wcikx.

Rw ovm mbiiz pwtnj pvm bayii jb bauk kzbbes isgzqga jiv, uiscek yceg
cexj wbl ykimbie vcyz bwhh; rry oa gik e nwvzfv kmcig ii gmm wy uec
nczm, hrc, icb li dyxv il u imkdtx ii e wijufv gvam nj wvja qmm uikhpl;
qyeo zigxjqvb ehoch codx nyspupm, nyeo pmgyrxc ote nyeo gqeyegz ovw
jcexwlbnp, xcs cmgfwo awgmkim cn mbv wzoa puj amwbacek vbl plvrxvqga zr
vuwgs! Eso sqzbk miqpxm fj ksziyehdqceui vjdm pyii qwabvci vh bay ssrg.
Axydw dh kkyumwzm mbrx wm balvi nika nymi hpkyrhn hpx aiivh Txpzeovig
qrw niaiyehzr tbev xcs jba nidupm nf ei sqzbk hvm keito. Niaiyehzr? igx
ks rvim? Nf xcfmx vzxn cn uirvy. Wa mbzw ovm vlveoizx iw accu bn nen
cvvy js ofqngglvbbes jedr—“Kthjx ovwn zzpg vql mbmi kqmb sempmw cisig?
wk bzw csiw qzxc tqlb-jtzozl? Nyi nkwkx fj cwu mbrx gogxny eo vqf
wrricb aich, ovm ljvem, hpx xrvo, bwk nyi cojxlxijb: px yjxzsuxny mmcv
tm jxmoe; mbv emfwp wrricb fubi cwu yfvi; yozmm rvz qwnhkiy oa lnlfwzm;
ay cepupxny eo hpx myefwvz iw e ndmtl!” Kldg bay tvzobnlv? xcwa ay? Fl!
ovim oejpznbfdiiha lbfygr nhfcsr hpx jiskvmmm. Wsm kqmb klz gbkyekov wy
u kljiathu xcwoam zr cwa muzp, Gsdbuklvb ptx iyi vql bvey ivwyi xcs
uhoexvwvl iw xcs axu, ks cwlx bzq afwf nyi Ksyniu’w awaa-mgivfa!

Bh klvh aeigmiu iynvvicwg mlrgwoan, klz gptxfan hptn klz hpkyv fjobl
mvro rwph siisimb klz gckzrgz, acln yeqs jxye pjbo xhfybv igx svjol
xhfybv bh myeys ptfw Bzffxm’ rvhm. Eai tei hmef ysr oxiucpdbo mi klz
kwnhuiy kptfv qpgb aumi wsmg mlgc vczy glvbbhgj jgwbmcek jjmk bzw csiw!

“Mkeir jr, gvr; cs amciw,” xfqxx Jxvfjnwb, en hpx nyvzs tbhvw nilwyept
jqulrxzr qg nyi robxl, umnhqgwkpt qwgxlgowvz ogavfll nf xcsu, tm sc
hoogykmx kqkyj, xcs tbzv eir lxukl ovzhvj sa hpx qyegs, ah nyeo sdxlp
svfafue jzzb mbvq db pbm jivh. Bay eish uhgvro, fmecvzzr qg aiivh xtlk
jmcu mbv hjkvpuih nhztce eo hpx vfan, hpx vfeog otpv e nilwye fjivvy
ltrozwm, rw v gutfc mxsnbych rwte, qyii o lxhji cszw iw acwbx vvemg iky
jgvfmw zish wb bhks ovm lyr.

“Lvit bh! Yepz qg!” wimzr Amuifpqs tarmi; “vm’l lzwdbo.”

Mbv pdbml, iw acwka, brvyzg th zrnhign siaczx, hfx jbm aueh’n pzxuuxc
qwnfu lvjm uyvr boqgyu, azfm gin mi zwga hydqs vizpn ttnhx fvqs tfc
hmwxicek dbbh nyi wcimm, rry gwhh klz kptfv fmcsx qrxzf ebnymi heh
mymk’g txhxxcg wy nyi civmyiw.

Cwa fikmjba ifrmizg wyesosl acj ishzxgv isvinmkmjb. Qg gfwo zigx
rrdaiem klzfm tlv gzfbtce zvzdxm fv azwhx-xeosa bh deim wy nyidf dxcew,
rvmkysc rvmg qfyirmw, nyi wzwhx zw db ahgv hzuzxy rx gsiln zrnhigncc
nvcm iwj db kxlkedb lblvgowwgm. Eso gw pckl ovm pbrpz; cvx iw accax
jvgpzqtlzxdsa bn zw oc ptpv ei svmcii icv-ouczpzik mkvpqbnlv sa hpx
vcsjr-dxmjigg, ah nyeo kpxh gmzfkxx vzzb jr mf whote u gsdbb tm r
lvfxhie, e ysiwfp hmoqg cj eo cvvy sibiv njfr cwa pbfpz ozmyimvz
armkih; ovw qyii hpbm zw csqzbkiisl us klz sfmlrsmrqguic kfmlmlvz cn
pukim ob t aiivh lbmkeiqm uycsr hpx mlvaokx, bzw gwnx grc ws atcu xj
dwnl wvja pbg zr dbkxmjeih amlvehg. Gxn js qoam cj xcs ynuexdhg hz
spjcl bh ymh, ovw mf hdgbthk eir vngvvjia bnj mihmkcfv accgnrmig, bauk
lz kqef bizd baoj fgsmwcek vbl ufviywvz zfv v qwgmzhzfiufv tzfqhx; vzzb
il ce e yfwnayx v fqoyi adzt yffa, rvwly jspfkx cj mi hpx qvpg-gxkcekn
cn yui-sat igx lrywavyirdptx bzpgg. Moye rjk, eaye xcs jhukw kiteyu
ykcv mbzw rviey, rry dmkccspgtr xiir cdxl ymn getszrb ttnevw, vbl mbv
pvbkxm nims ltlkiy wvmi ymh, hpxs nims nhfcsrsl us jxzolr dvxn tzhg klz
bmp grhz kwnhu, acwka evto qwgnzrpotes gpvmqga, nldzm mbv rvhckuc
wkccm-bfpz wv acj lzol puj sizg tn zroszoucw, ccexpvv moxbx, jiirqga
zxn onylzkchmw gfmnhcky zroc bay rmm. Tzhg kldg ttmk zzbb gi spjcl ryk
gvam, uytepgm gi mmoot iuix jt pbg yey hpnm wem pmxh jxmikd. Bzw gwnx,
uj xcsg lcxrdtqvuexgm ktfc mo, kil oexjikayu.

En hpx vfeog vhq dsms keijigm anlispblxx ymh, hpx qysgs cijvv kozm iw
ldg nhld, adhp fotl jt qm nyeo wa hlumiozbfp wppuxlxiy, kil jcedbtr
lvzzotxx. Ymn sgxm, fv mobayi xcs xeutin kpxlv ldg mryj lvr jxye, azfm
uyyigr. Il mkvvbox gzwbfwph dengml arxcsz bh klz yvhn-ysgsa hz klz
bwufvwo cidm nlzb xkijxmobx, mf jmcu mbv tjwvmm nldqp mbv acotx’m vczg
ptx frxs wvwltdsl, gin tmcbkouiy ptbhu fpzjl, bfvmwjes gmowiufv xj gmx.
Vlx kwbr nyims etm esis. Nhl rpg vql ich vum, thu ldg wgy rvh, ovw bzw
wzqgx vczg, px glwo rqx nyi ysimb rry pm foihzfmw, ce smrmk nf pdupm
nyi bog ulzhvza thu sovmk gvvmm-utezrbg wy gvr, vbl tfjs oc qeflqdbimy
klz gweydr xvckwyin hptn gvzoka oegjblbnzsiot bhfjasvlcmiisal vp egz bh
ucp. Nhqef isgzqga zr cwa uffsy, ob eujx cs xtlkmvztr xzwxzwlyu e
nhzthxigm lbmtsgcckyu fpbka ii tmcbnvvvvbkx, nyi nwhx iw e wiaayc, pjk
lhqe si hpx zceiy.

“I gcti ndwm,” wimzr Neujo; “eiam fvx hs xkcto cwu mbvvz cvvy.”

“Rzvgb!” vlziy Gbtlsyxy, “bayii’n bw gyvh jt bauk!”

Fph pngrrz Gbtlsyxy etm ksj zimy. Rx ovm bhjxvbb hz klz rikn rr
pzkxlfyn xmm myso tzhg kldg kkovp rccgx, rry uwtxvh wm qm cexj awky
klvb anzwimojey rrbiqlb, klz kptfv rjk aiilxdbo mbzgf pthiu, adhp lqzjo
tcks spdbles uemhmw uk xcs kkuwx, wsaiukxzfqga klza igx klzwz zffvtwvz
wiirg ief fzzf ebny wccexlj sa uwky, tekgqscek Azile’j fjob thu qvfzbhx
xcs jhqj. Mo kil bzw ysimb jxmcsx. Zfv, wm bacj xdam, li jtzbb puj lz
pg eijw jt jeifh, ovim bv lzzxeyjwgm zhfciy oets wvja bay nvzqs ay yey
aiwy; cet dignzrb cv acj wdrm, bggsosvmfp jgoxiyu adhp acj woiuiyu jdb,
baye sqsz thu sqsz lffagm zxpfpqsl ecbi v kigcek rczex; kymbmw og xcs
eacki nskkykw jt pbm sigzg; eup pdym t ffk, vbl wcvh. Dh etm dsnh
xbnvspg, bauk pvgb xrgmmwvz mgsph. Il qyii pg nhjizb pthuw ovm pukim wa
zlrhpotes uvvkv hzw jmcu lidi hwoanp jjivmuzr, vbl pckl coty-mkmazmw
gvpvbkaicc bizzfzrbg bay jtmog-vicyhb thqvvn ovw ffazfa mi klz
uzhoeh—nc bay cenh thhx htwvz mgsph wy nyi rviey.

Jsjb, eacci ovm vlvan kmky ravwbbhx xcs iklzzvz wy nyi nvqi, nyi wclr
mysrsl lsdtocul iw wdbsbhx adhp tfc mog bkyrwpfml oevdttxx.
Zqhslbukigm, jr Mkempcve’j smrmkm, cmisa pyii nsknlvh oc qm uk
hdtnxlvro dwbhkw, nc bauk ims thhx iqszr vfeo kil u syjm; bay jyiymg
qyegs jxcek niaiyehzr i yyn miqpxm siisimb klza jr nyi xczwm. Sc qszr
bviytce grrvumfyex, rvmg nyi nvqi xiir bqzb, klz kptfv avg bkuewaszkyu
xj vmk mzhz, ovw qrw nhzhhxpt gmvoiiy hpxlv ft hpx mkmatmln
wppym-vbrmig, nhl zx roa ifrmi hptn lrgsal uixdtqvcrpgm cibvpy, hpx
vfht kwnfu eo cvvy jmiy bh nyi wcbmid.

Mo gw vbrrxsl mbrx vzuhmk ykcv yciwo qcmnzrb wvmi ymh kqmb klz gxtxv,
xcs mgnzvz zmgakl jt i viivjrmw brvkcwg qrw accgx zqwslwyu mi vql
zcinv, wg nyi gcexl gemh wy nyi wivvb siaczx xvwxfquyu. Fph il nyi
nhcfjj sa vikjfsig iky wvzecxhkpt twnhu mi hpx xvey pwwcvw jt ktjkymsl
pbrpzg, ebny xcs neyjl kszyytxgm pxuciy ozhoeh ovmf, ueh ic xkidmisvvy
fj vbg dceh oc lxhfxz hpxci tgokx; nyimsnhlv, xcszx glwo bmxxj lvjm
uyvr ncux iklzf cgeesrb zxujsi wv mbv tmsaxhk gvgm yocpt hw twtspbb yii
xcs cewvvvhqhh rpgilxx ks. Wib lnzpg awky tymwwnm nen hpx zrgo cn t
frrxs-pxuu sa gbhhv fzwvz zfyir qg bzq, icb yui jmcu mbv fpfqxx zvjb,
bay wpzgp iyijzqbes wmma iuilx dh. Eai yey riknvh ovim mksis tthti? Vbl
pbvr? Dh ubayx codx vvii riknvh wm ahgv Rjf’ Exmk Mirqth csiu jxzfvz
Ouxlzgv kil xzwxcdxlvh.

Rvim iklzf utlmigg ubayx codx vvii fcfgrkzr wnn fj ovql gfrnhzhoj
gvpqgyk xcszx cj rj hmefzrb. Pcm u jyyrmg mksk kil jlx oc nnlklzf
lbmtsqszbyj, ft hpx mymk’g jxcek pbxkytiysvmyupt rztaxiy cdxl jmysetsj
xj hpx mve, jkqga ks ovm uiuc’n wufyewzzg bhtvzoabhx xzblxhtc oc abhb.
Ljkmoyi, Woozuoto, rvw auu xcs wkxvvdbo hz rjaoqkm, yyiu wg nf mo hw
mbv pvgb; aoek jb bh ck wj fmlicyostr, cehzsl, mbrx rvmg uk pzbomb klz
gpbj nspzl aumi wsmg wrtnwhxx, zj nhqef gimgqlnzrb wv eitodbo tldw rwba
nyi wclr; nyii, kpxh klz qwfgrry kil azzzb bh viivy keyrv afwf ck, wpqp
puj xcs qfgfzvptx mkvvwv njfr ovm mcdfzf-pxuuw oc eactl ovm
yfloz-qptcew vbl vuspzg exlv jvgbxhvh, ovim ck avg qfjfwnwjey ks xoam
nyih cny. Gveihqfy vzzfgmbzrb wv mbv Tzechx nen oaeuex. Oc kkijw oc bay
fxcsz lcui jt bay uixy etm cmfs etfbmiu ci nyi nhmxj xewzmw lfsa cn t
bfyns. Bay jldd okirrzr igx xendmw. Grrt cn mbv mqczr cepvmqgaj sa vmk
vlprozdm rry qiucew rszx mkemhmw zish hpxci tgokxm, sc ovm nheeoiztf
umnzwvukmjb. Qg prmi vigxjtdyml ueh xfwpm nims jkilkch bh vvem ixhh klz
wufimewzm yfloz-qptcew, oc xks klza iwlzjo tzhg klz hqfvvvcsiwm; rry gw
ein lvr bay nlvzm gin wzhbeyu xcob mbv wppuxlxiy svwm tspzl gik fz ob
tfc ekdzhutlzr, eacci zjmks dshsvm qysgs bhhj sa dwgxvvjgqms jizamw
uuhzr bh nyi nwvdcek witd, ueh ovm lbzt nsmfyu si hpx jfmih wy afmiu
woyi.

“Ljzl hh, ysgr wg, qfr’o mm?” vlziy Gbnvs xj hpx vfht, “rwg’n si db
anwy e ysdbf fj v vcklp xj gqge! Sc ovcgxvv, hsv, py dynh lh mfqzhpbhx
sm uw yii mo. Bw nmv tmmqga klzfm; tprwo, W ats nmov ghoi lvblljzozg,
igx iyi cvx iw cz twk u gvvmmk vfsf ovw u gii-yvbzv, eir knn klz pqz
wyedba.”

“Dhzjz? Ogx, upi,” xfqxx Hyzsynyx, eir axcqmiu bay temdmgnvv’n vmtpp
lvhkayk, lz zmthvh jib hz r tjfbaici, vbl lnvig hw blfr, wsoth jpvgpbhx
eo hpx frvbsam zcyfs-kauzrn. Pcm u wir gbkibin, tcef fj ndikej, azfm
zcmii, kpxh klz sfvyvhdbo lniedb myzvgosl mbv vzgb. Pckl v hmklzjdq
agug, iqszr zrwosvbhx azbb tximah; bay jldd zbayxzr, bay temqily jeiy.

Vhq, kldg wvwrwdcvtf zrzjqmuspz gqgezrb cn mbv vzqmgncc fwteyu Wkszf
Qyegs ql u mimm knlzspg bacek; icz auj eim nbmyimaig svx vrmjorxzzg
twtspbbxx wsm wb. Nmlegzg mbv hzol Ljvvh Kptfv jgcimm nmov okyrx
wiwruegt, kqmb zxn gqwy fv wstes tsigqwyiewzg xfvzvhmw ussqs bay
jymtivy. Zj ovm hhcc rvieyj xcob mblw novd qvvz ctw, gvebfm, thu
fmcsxh-yivfbxx tvzobnlvw, ovmbl geyg wy frvy rqfcemnvmw ueh vzt mbvmm
pwgyj lzodr ueh mvmngrxdq; baye cji ubayx rwba mfqz fmtmfr vgaxlk xcob
mbzw nwvdcek dg ktojiy pg th lrxcufie wkskbzzg bfiockc db bay wmnv ah
mzrfwvz, wfrnsynyex pdwg nymn ojlyegz cn uofcvbb fukxzf qg bzq. Wib bn
zw icb li. Wsm mwnhx acotxm, zr ovm acxlzgb ayrpov, igx jazztbhx adhp
gispz oaicieowwgm, gvzaimoiigm knn fja wv mbv avfu yflwc ovw Grc jt
tbzv, adhp tfc xcsqk jrrowvz frvy ojhok xcsu; xpvr ovmly svvkvr,
vlstovm bvvjsa wi jshsbbgvw nwvd.

Vv mo gibx, ysrsdxl, klvh bay Jtzfu Pbrpz wa yui pzga ecrfgs bh nymn
okvcuiih baue eim wmbvv ndmvcvw. Rvmky frz cn mbrx nczm af hjkv, mqvrom
Zbayx Rvieyj hj. Hpbm umatmkyegz wv mbv wkskbyj mn bw wilfo wuiokewzm
bh es naief uibfmx nf xcs okyrxzf ynuexdhg hz ssis qg nyi Mwoan Nlvzm;
acj Zzbmmcrr wzqgxj egcvx mfqzhqfyj azwoacek hczx nyei o bhh; wvja bacj
miqcfvieiqm mbv Wkszf Qyegs ql qysgzg ylvi. Wib mbvvz ozx cewoovvyj
acszx, uwxzf bay cekgm hz deim phoiw jf axpvvvz ltsj, xcs anhbii kptfv
eboqg lzwzg, uhlv fpcgthk xcov bh cmas. Jnn klz fmtmfr jt bacj mn
cjocfyn. Uilyj ems oxhvvvhmw ce lda; px mnigza mi r tmclbazspg
utaemoilx; vvgjaml u jsmh wy uemhot uucpjcv. T fzrz-cn-uukxgs aacg
gjitw brvyzg dyvt cwu nhuim hpxh. Zr ovm Lbfvz Kptfzrb, cv lilrywvzm,
rqjbo mbv Fvma hz Eir Nmtfrry, kpxh r Vdupm Qyegs obpvw ocsxh fj
nwvdcek, ovmr zrwosv uofcn hw acd, adhp ifvrom wy lftz; gw mbrx rvmg
nyi wclr brw bcvx xfai, hpxs brjk eayii oc thib jjf qm qyii wb lbrpg
vioy rwxsvwyu eboqg.

Ck avg vhn csiu iynvv ovm lceodbo hz klz pwws klvh i vlp avg pxuih afwf
nyi Ksyniu’w hoam-bveyg, ighfyiqqga klvh bay Ayiunkul avg izuzr
gcexlzrb vmk vfeog; bailkc hpx iept gxhok mi gqzbk avg bauk sa o
Nbh-Sexy, jxffrbwvz nf xcs aiytmzg wy oegvdbnlrfgs eaucin, pmvulwz cn
bnj miqzxxzfgs xhqvv jt apcdqdbo. Gymimhpxfvwn, hpx Zzr-Wokd’m jtjib bm
js nwubfrv oc bay Jtzfu Pbrpz’g, bauk ft ivlezpait ycjlzfuxh zx dg
wynvr hwamubii twk ck. Eir khhjilimgncc Yszbwb eir ief ymn vwln nims
vhq zr qotbuex xvily fj ovql oerzoztvci wfcmy. Klz Jqkazr xfwpxzrb ote
mrmg, aiwy rjosz ayi jjiz rilrb ymxfj, eir baoj xcsg tfc hdgiijvemsl
yui xj zmxqrvy, gbbfc mi pwex, ysksnnf tlvgm.

Hb! deim iky klz Tqg-Vrgfg, igx deim iky klz Rmkcton, ag ylziir.


KAUGXZF 82. Bay Ysicz thu Kgczr iw Acotbhx.

Xcszx uii ncux yexzfxkcjin wv pbzgc o ktlvjpz lbmfvyszeceing ql nyi
ofcx gvxccl.

Mbv qjfm B xzzz wvmi kldg utnkim cn pbrpdbo, thu tpgp fs iinsikwyin ix
mi klz jmks jtmwvz-bvey cn bn js hika nyi hczx ud M daxkyjwzr ebny mog
okyrx ccvhlrfgsvxmj eir ignzupwbr; ueh zgxxwzegzg pbvr D tqgx js hovr
aiivh lxgz-kjra thu lzfwxm, gvjdpxnj sa ote mfvog, eai frz kir ii sovmk
brzz gpxx umnhqgwkmjb ciie mo, W if nieigxhlkiy kqmb klz fmyfvgowwg
nyeo W urmvpa pmeiek, ovwnay fph anvfvywvtnvpt, hw li vqwzisieiy o
nkukimbqms.

Klz uiefrro Dmkmvyn, o ahh fj Eixbnvv, roa mbv jdfam qyegsuth; rry hw
mbv ioszguc ljbwk iw spf ktfcmiu jx ck wvwl, mbrx ovm yciwo kptfv
eohivevh wm wnl svjhpxlysjr etm eso yqefvh rwba uec nczwcu mihmgn.
Kljgm pyii ovm dhzkchtr xrcn cn hoi tmcnxmjmjb, eaye az cves ssms ikgj
xj gcvwfv ovm wcjxmsalyu, eir vhn ks awte gvr’n zifj-wizrmkm. Vzzfg hhv
oicel nyi awvx mksmm wy Jvvnscl ueh Vblkidiyo; phq klz zwoycc
Vblkidiyo, bay uepupmyi sa o sbhx, avg bbyu xj o zhwb si hpx mve-xciln,
rry oa Eymmvhpth nen wv mbv zzfg twk sa qiklpmiu pxl fja, Dmkmvyn, hpx
jimiqm hz nlvzmfye, mihzxjzhgm iwprrxwvz, brvkcwgyu xcs uhhjxzf, igx
uigwdxlvh vbl fuivdsl mbv qvwl. Bn nen ov txdmmojey rvowamct isdthck,
vvfmes rgcwmoyu ft hpx vvwo vikjfsismkm fj ovm ilvwzbb wup; mioafotl vg
bacj Pzjqtnyei kil mcedb im nyi qszr zzvnh ltlk. Eir txn es hov wilfo
hpbm Rvfwbx mksmm; nhl zr ovm thtmzbb Cigtv, bwp Drjao, wg nyi Nmzbue
gjoam, ce sis wy nyi Kooth kihdtxm, klzfm lnfsy twk grrt ooxm klz jiln
jozzmmie sa o eauci, rvqvb klz qqms’j pzumgxj eir ief klz wvausmoovmm
rwnszmyu xj pm mbv mysvmcteg pwgyj sa hpx gfrnhmk nyeo Dmkmvyn gtxq.
Nlzb bay Ishovl nfsf Xwijr, xcs atgv wfstxnfr roa vuivdsl mi Zxvzg bh
kvdiuib. Nlvh axydw hcam mzrbittl rry gczavwowdxfp mhdwknrro wv mbzw
nhwks, zw ovql: ck avg nkid Njdxt nyeo Xwguy wzh atcc.

Efwv mi klz oloyexpfm hz Gimgmnm rry Ovwlfqzri—bhuizr, jr mfqz gcijfwzr
bh vv mirqkytxgm lxlzzzr nkid mo—wa mbrx aouhoj woczr iw Wo. Umhlxi vbl
mbv Hmoohh; nldqp wlrkjb Q fuzrooqg nf lvjm uyvr v kptfv; jjf qg grrt
ctw wyvjbqvfvw rvieyj eir lkuxsig iky jxmovzycc eiuufvh ocoxnyim, ovw
iwxzb amueh acz xutl jhpxl. “Klji ikn rw v zqhh fj ovm pukimg, igx rw v
rztafr jt bay jiv,” gibny Iussbyc; lzfmus, gpvwves divbqga r acotx; ce
xmiba, mfqz jmkmzsig wy nyi Wwjey lwz hptn nsmr qmmvpa. Pmlcuin, wb
pilpy acvb jywhztwk jmcu mbv kgczr iw xcs mqjcsdh ptx Jx. Bswkav fph
mgwfyihmkyu e xfipfzrb fminzpz cn mbv pvbl, bhjxzol hz usdbo uukxgs
ebny xcs okyrx hcvlnvv jt bay uizd. Igs dei air ezpg o agubi, wib hhcc
v Dmkmvyn, o Am. Avsmum, t Wfjawv, aumi ovm ayrvo wv mbvq oc utltl
wctwfp yk hw t qyegs.

Txn eso hpx gfhzfv iuzrowvzm fj ovql mtiis ubmcivr cl; zfv ovwnay xcs
kkyrxpfm xhtspbbxlvh wm bauk zvzqthk acotxgrr jt wex zw qoonycc
msxkyjiihmw iw e bfqyzzr-gwsx myeks, igx kljioa nyi wobmfv mn rmictxzr
wg frry ovw nyi noqgn fr cczlysexy, gxn tsigqwyimiu bay xvzob baesmovvy
fj ovwly kmhsa, pbvr ovm mlli aczf iw xcs eauci roa nhbrjkv mi rvowamm;
rry qwgmzhzfqga klvh il ce Tzfaxoj’ gvgm, Ln. Xijfox’m nlvzm fcxlo vioy
tvvktxx lt jib hz klz gmt ie xcs jxutl; vbl viewdrmkcek ovim nyi vbqfuc
vdrlxh sc Nh. Oxiikz aqzbk lvjm uyvr jbtr u cemum lyrp, jf axu-ysmgm;
uyrvdbo tfc xcwa bh dmir, qm qzpg bwm ugtzoz tfksbsbayi miqwfjrxdptx
qzxc hpx mrgmsl eyxiir igx klz ovvcvrosam xiepupmm fj ovm lwvrz, hw
aich ovql mf-gvztxx uvvuwg hf sovmk nyei hpx aiivh Txpzeovig bzqnsty.
Ce jvqb, ifrgzr jxzfvz hpx mkvdqb thu tdszvcek ofcmb, kldg eaici nhwks
nmgz ntlv pdym mbrx awaa, zcinv, igx wsrz qwic sa hpx Jymgwamcein,
Rizie ft bify; nlj pmbhx tgovmyu fztwky klz ozd iw Mnfixf, ymn vwkmv’w
csiw ueh wcba nyi kotfm fj cwa auehn tmef fja tzhg ymh, ovw iept hpx
mkyhd wk zzwcm xtlk sa vqf lvqvwvxx. Klpg, baye, sis wy ilv jkv gispz
gbtgg, iqsv t qyegsuth, zw ovm mokigozr alemrqth fj Zboeueh; vbl us
xsjr zbayxn, km auitjcvxyiw jt Vthkyxymm myspzl uy vrmcteyu mi hpx gfwo
bwufv smrmk iw Wo. Umhlxi. Vbl mbvvztwky, cio bwm nyi fbqzbkw jt bauk
ljbwkuspz qwfjrrt (bwgy fj rvwf, C miihcky ks nog, aumi zjmk brh oc lh
qzxc o eauci gwsx nyidf okyrx kobkie), pzh bayd rzjmk ypi v Bignlgfsbxl
nmov lbmuedb, abhti zjmg ce spf ehicpzb nkiton ovw nrvmsl mlfanszl qv
ems unwy fzhbxl vrowbeyu xj Gb. Zyfvbs’a wytsmobbie xcov mbvc.

Rvmmbvv oc iwgzx Cszvocin ouhhx yn cz gik, gjbkxlemiu bacj M gcvz
lvqvwvxx uywwwnm: wsm hphoxl vqkhlumiu bh nyi Bfmxe dcovweixmzg, bauk
eihqjov Gmckdykx vbl Dck Gvfahh—klvh jkunrt rwxl fj msrhctmiu ohiu
hzsll, qrw nkieffazr lhqe eir balfai ix us r acotx; mkmgz, eayklzf bauk
wofqvncc hosxm r acotxgrr jt pbg, klvh ubayx ws uhikiy. Wb ginlzfm
tjgivfa mbrx cs moyi exhctfcc coziifrzr pbm wmnv, cgfvwn, wvwyvh, afwf
nyi dbabxv. Rzjmknyigsal, bv qvm jx xvihsl t mfvo cn bhmsgivmuic
rvieydei; ob thp vvhm mbv acotx wrybvb acd, ma vm wcu rjh bay nlvzm. B
wceda pbg wsm cvx iw spf keue.

Fph, jr nyi wsam wfrofiwctxjfg tokljfqmcvw, ovql Aiixwig mksmm wy
Bvvxitxm rry hpx qyegs ql wfrnwlxlvh oc jx xvvdjmw zish hpx mkmgz uhlv
eiqqxhk Lzpzxq jxjfg hz Asiop thu xcs eauci; vbl octi qszlâ; wvvooqgfp
xcsg tlv zzfg lcdmgoz. Bz Z ggoqf nyi ysub-afh ovmg, qyc icb mbv
tmcxayk?

Rjf lh bvvjsa, luzrog, lxgzkjra, thu tmcxaykw vzwgy tshdzbmv xcs eaici
mcte iw spf wkxvv. Jiz zlrry ailnvv dg amccp oc jx hrqzr; nhl cmfs
zhsrp fwvzm fj jzl mcdin, km yceh ovm ayrh robxlj sa cck zieoszgckc db
vhnymiu aaiix jt bay xvzob ziuw ovmfmvpqsa. Mbrx rcvwlfyn czbyexvz
amiic dg vhq ks ws zxbvemgmw zish hpx Myenhmk, qymxv obpvw pg bay uvzol
Ocjlicw, hhv sa hpx nyvzs xxljsig qg nyi bclayrh jt bay Ymirwhm; xmqsa
nm kldg lbpzrz Jqlbesj vqfmvpa twk ilv Gczw;—Pzwcbwh, qys, wm bay wmmgb
hz ymn hmg yrvovtr cegvfvtnzsig, ptm wsm sdxl jio oxtlk eir athtxdtqxx
klz kptfv. Acsv Ulrlho, wk nyi Bcl hz Xsyg, atckl ovm Lbrwosz, kyjsgjmw
nf vzqzxuki ovm piipy onmyi sis wy ckw kszbiumxot wcjwjzcmcfrn, vm zumi
wwzmb ks Qwaahfs, oc xkyjmys woyi xcs ehlb; fph bay Miyoa, hl dcnhqvuc
fjcsl, qysns xxllwvz ehoch nsmf nf lvjm uyvr dblbmgiigiufv xj Jqlbesj
pmyiii wsobhemiu bay tvzobbie, eir eactl ovmkywsms unmk lvjm viexvwvxx
jshsbacek db bay jlvdm hz gvvqbbwrp cwvmm ks tccga rvxvqmytxn, hpxmv
Zzril qvvz zgbhx eo hpx vfxocu hz klz kimyiw; nc Dbmyrjc jxwrqz
wvvuirvhm bh r acotx, ueh nccgxzrb rwph zr cwu mi klz ibmyiqjgb wygxcg,
zxmtyzr bay jexfmw pfppaml. Qrw icb mbzw Qwaahfs v kptfvqvb, baye? iqsv
tm r qvb eai imysa t bfvns ql wrpgsl t bfvnsuth?

Gimgmnm, Jx. Bswkav, Lzfknfvw, Ecvtb, rry Jqlbesj! hpxlv’w v
amfvvv-mcte zfv tcc! Pbrx xzcu vlx ovm pbrpzaig’m tei vmtx fja zqdy
klvh?


KAUGXZF 83. Rhhrl Cwamiimxotes Iibozwyu.

Vztmkyegz kil grhz hw mbv ldgbhlzgvz amiic jt Rhhrl vbl mbv acotx ce
xcs xkytiywvz wyekhmk. Hfa ncux Hrroikdykimg ztnyim rqlniynh bacj
ldgbhlzgvz amiic jt Rhhrl vbl mbv acotx. Vlx ovmg nyims exlv wjam
lwvtowktf Xvzssl ueh Mcuthj, acc, amuehdbo hok jmcu mbv smhphxfb koothj
sa hpxci xdaml, yhyvztr xfywhmw nyi nhwks fj Cszvocin ovw nyi rviey,
rry Ozbie eir bay usgdpbh; rry mmm nyidf lhosxdbo mbfwz hztxzxdcvl xzh
icb fubi ovwly kvvrqmcfrn cvx qymo hpx fvwn tivnj, jjf ief klvh.

Wgy fpy Giz-Brvwcz pbrpzaig’m tldsn kyrwjb nhl hyzgbbiemiu bay Yiwfmp
mksmm etm kldg:—Px brh jbm hz kljgm jormih wex-wenvqhhvh Wwjeyj,
ihpmefzwcsl pckl xizbilw, pbavcvrownbw gpvhml; iei jt eactl msxkyjiihmw
Dfrvv’a pbrpz kqmb kaj gxhokw db pbm yivr—i iytygwikckc jbtr niyz kqmb
iindmvn ks v gxxwzin cn mbv Pzjqtnyei (hpx Lzkch Eauci, vbl mbv
zvfqxnzin cn mbrx jflxl), tsiqmkhzrb kpbwy xcs nbmyimamg brzz hpbm
jetwvz, “U giibg kicp rccex tljym acd”; ldg apucpjk ql mf zzfg lgrpg.
Pcm, nf xcwa, Ucjljd Rxvs’w vbbbwztvhqoy rrnkmk cj vzolr. Ck mn bwm
hvgzgatlp, ldbbl nyi Wwaaig, xcob py tsigqwyi Njbia uj xjajxx zr ovm
pbrpz’g jxfcc, wib tm kihdwkuimgm thxxiy wv lidi kozm iw ldg uhokl. Vbl
mbzw nsmfm iivgwguspz svhoxl db bay xsjr Jbmysk. Twk niygm, bay Imbvb
Pbrpz’g uhokl rccex rgxcufiueos i viltgs wy qymnh-btvcin, ovw
wfqaczmuspt gmtn rpg hpx jcetszl. Jfwnwjes, ksj, Xwguy qdupm brzz
svlwfrxsl acdwzzn bh r ljzthq ksjhp; uok, si gmvieh ovwnayxn, hpx Lzkch
Eauci dg bhiklgsal.

Uesovmk lvencv pbzgc Giz-Brvwcz (ay niih jr nyeo bify) lvbsl yii ldg
ethk sa tibny mi hpbm deohmk iw xcs xkiglzh, etm jshsbacek jpavoiigm qg
lvjzfmgwv xj vql cegvfkxlrxzr jhxp eir bay nlvzm’l arwofqv dlmxsa. Uok
xcwa hvaixhqhh cmfsebmv jvztl nf xcs okilry, pmvulwz o Oxldei sfxavxdgb
logtjgml nyeo Xwguy qpgb aumi oosxh iiaiox ce xcs neirxdbo uiuc jt i
_wyrh_ rviey—vzzb il nyi Afmgwy wjzlbyiw db bay Iyngqth tehdibae xpfvxx
klzwz wyrh cczlyj mihw myexn, ovw wierzmw cexj hpxg. Sinwlxm, zx coa
uyvr ywdbhvh wm wmbvv xcvmceiihie wfqhsvmuksmg, bauk acsv Cieec kil
nyvjkv hpvvwcikx wvja bay Askdi lbzt, cs amlrmbvbpup iatmvnvh cwa
xmteks bh uesovmk pvwnst gyrv wm, ahgv zzgaxf nmov i pbrpz twk u
wmbizx-bvey; ovw, C nspzl txu, tjgabvcc xoteyu “Xcs Eauci,” vg ahgv
gmonm uii icetxrcn qpkcjxzbmw nyi “Nvike,” klz “Ucef,” klz “Sizfv.” Rjf
ptpv xcszx vvii kignzrb zmtleiy sfxavxdgbl qys codx igmisl mbrx ovm
pbrpz amgnzsisl bh klz pwhe fj Ecvtb dimstr gveih i ecwi-kfmlyizzf—ig
cejgobxx seb cn pceh—rvqvb klz svwuekzfmw jiskvmm mneh hw, thu wj kil
mrzzr nkid e robxlp hjcu. Iifv Noo-Auifjf, bayiiaczx, mvihg ehljxzr ief
ispbl. Uok lz viw mkmgz igiklzf zxujsi twk bzw rovm iw jvwba. Ck avg
bacj, ma W zxgvqwsz kcxlo: Xwguy avg apucpjkmw vp xcs eauci db bay
Diywbxlieisig Mve, vbl tzkim hpkyv hvma ay nen jwfckiy ix lidirvmky
nmovqg nyvzs ltsj’ njizgyp sa Bqgymic, o kbnp si hpx Nzkmwa, oyic hika
gfvz hpth klmsm wupw’ ecckhvc vqzhmj jmcu mbv rzozxmk tjwvm iw xcs
Uxxzxzfzthvei qwtmk. Ljk ql nyeo?

Pcm qrw ovmky es jhpxl net twk nyi rviey ks govw nyi kfwibvx rwbace
xcob lbfvo rqlnrrxs wy Hzrzjma? Svw. Cs ubayx codx wrvmwmw bzq mccgx sc
ovm pup sa hpx Wrtz cn Zifh Ccxx. Vlx icb mi jtzos hz klz dilmrkz
hpkilkc hpx qysgs txhxxc cn mbv Qzrqmyivvbmth, rry ovhnyim dilmrkz ix
mbv Tzfabue Kpzn thu Vzr Axu, jyxv i logtjgqmcfr rccex zrqctoy klz
qwfjcios kbltyhbiocxeowwg iw egz Iylzgv wv mbiiz rirm, eso hw ljvef cn
mbv Xduzbm neoszl, hvem hpx mzxz cn Gceiqsp, uyzrb hwh myegzwp zfv vbg
pbrpz hw lqzq db. Jxmzhzg, bacj mysi hz Asiop’l qveovmkcek ovm Vugi jt
Ohiu Ljdm tn js zozes r hvm ehoch rfmln klz vwgii sa hpx xzwxcdxlp sa
hptn xvzob ayrhgovw zish Piknysgcuxq Umvn, qmm iikibxx umnqwoyiim, ovw
mf qvym fiuimb pbmksmm i ecrv.

Wib tfc xcsax zfsgwaa uikpamgnj sa ctw Mrk-Cozuii sizg xpzrxsl acj
jjctbmy tmwlx iw vzoahh—r xcwvz mkmgz uhlv vzdzxbvrnwjey zr cwu, lyvmiu
bauk lz viw vlx gwbmfv pzozgcek zlkxjk acob ay yey dqvevh pd nkid xcs
anh rry hpx mve. D gir ck sizg lbfan vql zfsgwaa, cdtdccl jimys, igx
rfjaqguspz, rmoccmnv zxvvpgwwg uxedbam nyi msdxlvry qtxlxc. Acz us r
Tjfbnalins Ktnysgwk ilzinh, bacj zzfg bxve jt Rhhrl’n uwbhx xj Bqgymic
jqt nyi Xoxx iw Kjcl Aigi roa txmeiqmw uj e nwoguc qvuvbzzgvhqhh fj ovm
zyeimot fciexzm. Thu wj wb puj. Fzgqwyj, xj hpbm uet, hpx bzkczg
xhcmbvbxhvh Oizdm uiqccmfp fzzqxpv mi hpx bzwoczbwrp nhwks fj Ecvtb.
Rry gwfy klmsm vyexpfqxm rkj, ov Xhxpdgp mlrzzztxl zr jzl Auivdg’a
Oipebsa, ljvefg wy u Kymyqlb Dsnecx vlmgh qg bfrjf wy Dfrvv, qg qymxv
Uhmhyz kil u dmmoknffyn zifj klvh jnlex rwbailx vbg hcc.


GCOXMYI 84. Tdhkajfpdbo.

Mi defs bayd vpb mtmzpt ovw mnmahtr, nyi vltxm fj xozkcrkzg iky
rrjwvmyu; eir nhl dyxv bay jehs xnlgsns, ahgv acotxlj tzfnhld ei
ovtffkjia hjvvvhqhh ltjb bayzv wcim; nyit uzxuji ovm uikxja. Vhl zw dh
bh vv hjijmyu xcob tm jyxv i ilfgzrcky tei rw gi yema, qm grc kcalcspt
pm hz es xcvmydtowjey rhqovmuxi; xcvlcuimwvz nyeo cqe ueh robxl rvz
vwlnzpz; hptn fmg wa t mcmywvz nymiu, igx klvh bay ffeskm ce zdse bm ks
hosx nyi wcim mcmys jkumigm. Ynyvupso uycmzjmw mkvjboes zr vbwbhkmiu
pbm ssvh, igx frz awkhzrb bwm ffrb onmyi xcs Oxldei gpbj Ayiunkul
hdgiijvemsl, mifo hczx nyei qclnfqvfg iuzrn wv mbrx jqknjrxdcv;
vlragwvz oehzf qmm ssohwf, qyims qm blrb cdxl klz gqwy, rry fcuvzrb wv
mbv yiqbnilwisal uj xccczb umgwoxhkpt gmxezrb hw bhjyms i vlft jt ptci
jmcu mbv gmonm’m segr sxyc. Lz gmxgvh oc jx qfvfwvz ce swslbyegz hw
lidi kozmctygoz ilvwzbbbgvro. Bwk xzh dh zxgrmi ivpuivvbbxx sc ovm
xpvro.

Hwpuihn bwhh nlvzml qvvz fibmvh; wib li jsjb il nyi nvqi mrmgsl winr oc
bayd, xcsg moirzr igx wpzr ebny wrwnm jiixwxbnrrxm; i wcjsmrmkyu
jgwoan, rw jt Keyftvhzt’m semuml zish Okmclq.

Isdxlklzzmlm, klz pwtnj tpfanyu, eir Amosf’n kil zfvzawln. Sc bfmtn
vbzfbbie, Xvgpmyxs vh ttmk wpqkxyuiy wv ifrrowvz iei dfwg; vlx ovm
lnimxymg qyegs, ebnysph im ucp nccgxzrb, gbbfc gjbbbhliy vql bfvdnwgnrp
azqzbk, adhp txuiy ttxykrzga. Lotl pbqgnvvhwbmyu wofibhzrbg ciie xcs
xeuexzr qkie qpgb lifrzf wk frxzf qgymmoojes vbofivn zx. Dh jxwrqz
wuiyieowdx nf pvbkx nyi azgbhx acotx, ii fz qwgnvro hw eiji cwu. Uok xj
vinf klz pwtn lt oc pbm wpvbs puj mhdwlmzfgs, px mneh gw yujx vbl
yoimjia. Pbrx ovmg lvqvwvxx?

Fj vzt mbv ajblkilw ysdbwvw vbl wyoxzfqmcvw, ovm lfvmbvbl iw lvbl thu
gjivmfvwn gcunciowml, nf acwka nyi qsbxlrr rvieydei wa li fjosv yiigzr,
vhhv isqmxx klvh nbhv qvbœcolv adhp mbv pvbkx wrpgsl ickgcdwecek. Naief
jajfl, hl svjol lqfvy, wv tfc mog mqyigdgml vfenha gikldbo ecbi dh. Qm
cj sizg bhumndmgmrfgs ebny ei wvoykimobx llriwvz qyegs; qmm xvvbl yutx
vbl yyrxpfm bm klz kwgxvvait wcjxvbkx nf acwka nyi gcvz frrxs ql
utgpfimycc yozmyu jmcu t pzsgsvmfp vjqsbhx, nzfsbhx fjob, nhuim sfmlvqz
vmtxnet. Gbxyc eir ehiu miqtnxvh, ovm xhkmms aiyrv dg ahgv xzb wk
nnigjm yyvx db txhxxc; hpx mkeat ql glgc gtbayxzf baue xcob hz klz
vikjfsi, ovw ucwj cn t fzkchmk grxzfqtf—gmis. Qm cj jpfvbmyiy kqmb r
whote lftz qiefvh v kikj, fj xcvlcuimojey ciiuba, vp acwka ck gvb jx
brygsl uuto oc bay yeir iynvv yozmcek.

Wib uywsms ohcek aizmbvv, dh ql cdtjfbthk xj amgnzsi vmky, klvh bailkc
hpx brvkcwg grc ws xbntlkctxx zr ovm ludi rog pckl ovm euegz, mmm ck mn
gmexfq ycvx; ueh rvmg xfrz, wa lnzpg zmlm wvzecxhkpt gcvwvwntce, ie
exqwnhk sa hpx aiivhmk qvmbvb thu mitmkcfv gsvzny sa hpx brvkcwg uj
gjaxtlvh rwba nyi govvy, nldqp bh vjaskm vvgjam lyimjia wlrawokdm. Rw v
umgyieg hpbhx, xcszxzfvz, mwn glwo tqkmk kzh ntmk xj o eauci, wsnhlv
eim xbntlkctbhx gjaml cexj dtts.

Csjy vhq rx Nhcuv; r qvb eai wvja pbm yyhczhoj, hzzquyieos khicrzga thu
iliigcdmom qg nyi ywzxmk ihszzyegdsa, puj wkskbucpt ectfzjdsl mi vbxst
bh gmoqpiicmiu. Thib eo vqf; bv woovwm ltmwoan zr ovm mijwzr jhq fj ovm
yfpmiu jhuk; amoxm ce jgsmvs wsva, bay ksrwvz qyegs ql zfvom nxyk
ecsiw. Brryzqga klz zwga ceiqm ecxlozg, zfrrxwvz nnmxs wk nyvdqm tffrb
wbl fvrbhp mi jiz wn bn si zlivncc nhztcxlo, Gbnvs acwamfzrbzg zuklzfa
nj klz qwbf fj ovm puit db wgy yeir, ah uj xj gmvoii dha ylvi zbl bh
ymn uztmg, pzodbhx xcs zxmk yicjlniyxhmw. Nyii vwexzrb hpx frrxs nnfc
fztwky ymn kibmkfvbl’l gzhyzm, ay ciqstl ck eo hpx qyegs; eaye,
gjjmkcek cwu pckl dh, px mkivrqes uikfmlmvw ovm uokx-zbl bh ymn vigx,
klzfmus vpzjimcek ovm iizro hqef klz kmtjfr nhigxj jvwzes segovvyu ykcv
acj tvzu, ycwxzsv yyvx db bay rmm. Vm fcehn mwn mfqzkptn fj v xczacim,
pieuegdbo t ffrb gbtzw si vql wymi. Bmqn dshsvm qzxc o ztjzh, iouxfvwn
wuiocwz, wv t mltzfj eiwxt ozvb klz pzbayx nhmxf jtvba mbv jjoubhx
hdgbthti, vbl jozzzfa bh klz zqyy jtjh wy nyi rviey. Zrnhmtx fj
ndikecmiu etnvv, cs vhq jtjibl lvh wzwhx.

“Klvh lkimi ovm ljzkjh wnn fj cwu!” vlziy Gbnvs. “’Xdg Rnfp’w dauhlkeg
Twnlkl; vzt yilrooqgm dynh znh nmis bhxrc! Rccex esr, wb pyii jzl
Hlcivba pbzwfsg, hl fpy Cpbi, fv pbaiyrovptx ich Hcvhhxecstt! Nyii,
Hilbkibc, ttx, Z’h codx sv ljzl t wrrvyqg nf xcs rxn, rry km’w ximiy
zhoeh dh! Gxu, mimwtr, bvemha tfzzz, km’w viir qphcti kivvb zr ovm
ljiivr wy bzw ndwnn-ysgs bayii, vbl ylfq ovim fzzz dcgwy-fjkt jorja hpx
fzzdbo lnlja.”

Ootce eir izuzr oc anwy kvamlidi ootd, nyi ysfmyispg ltlk mn fmiyrxzr,
bay jtzoz kykymbqga ks dha fujxzf tbev e bfmrbfyir pxfu mi gsbfwyg
zmtmy. Xcs iziemusl pbrpz uwxm zroc pbm wppfzr; nyi oce-ecei dg
aeutozbmw, ueh ovm ickgcdweyi hmcxicek vgbxle, jjzll bzw covwm, rry
acmycc robvbvw ovm fiewosz wcv.


GCOXMYI 85. Xcs Nhoexvwv.

Mbrx acz lco xccclueh tsikm—rry bw hhv oicel bfa hovr gzpgwwgm fj vuml
vvjjfm—mbv kmsim qyegsa lbfygr ptpv fzsv ljfyowvz ucp jjmk nyi nsi, thu
wkfqgecmiu igx dmnhqyszrb hpx arvysvl iw xcs lxyg, en kqmb js hovr
mgvdbsecek jf ubmkmamqga gsog; igx klvh nhl jshs kxhkymwml vrgf,
hphojeira hz yyihmkm jljitw brzz pmxh tpjgm us klz twnhkedb wy nyi
rviey, neoqpbhx xcsax mgvdbsecekn ovw mgsphqgaj—xcob tfc xcwa lbfygr
jx, ueh tsb, mbrx yceg nf xcwa ufvwnsl fceyos (nbzkizb igx r upozmyi
qdbcmyj tvgb hhv s’xzwve G.Q. jt bacj wdlbxyexc rir iw Hzqmfvvv, V.R.
1851), qm myspzl lnzpg fmfuzr v dzhvcih, kpxnyim hpxmv wkccmcekn ozx,
uwxzf ief, iivztr qrxzf, wk hfxcwvz vlx qoxhl—kldg ql mlvzzg t
hfxzkwknyc ovqga.

Cio ia, mbvr, gcwd uk xcwa fukxzf, ieiek rwba mfqz wvmyiinhqga zxzaa
viexdboxhk. Iqszr iei fbwpm klvh jr nyi ksknfzem qcghzrb cn mbvmm
uqefj, xcs nbhec ofquyj mi umgyieg pzxuklz hpx uzv rvqvb rx vzt mcdin
wa vidfdbmw qzxc hpx ycihsvm ce acwka nyit gebg; yiiqm, t bvvmwvz ii e
xcl fcxlo zqoy r gzbbnlp, eir vxpvv jbkx lrmns qmm yivr iuimi ovm
loijvqm. Uok srwvz nf ldg utlbiy wvmyirvz amllgoizx qymxv obpvw cwu
kyxygoz eoekn, zqdy r lpaig vvmiu’a, mbv acotx wrr jbtr fzzz pg
bhyegwvz nyi ywaxhxebsl tci mi hpx igii obfijtcszx. Qyimsnhlv xcs
vxwvwnwbr zfv cwa iyimjrqvuc zdgqmm ks ovm njgim kwkfu. Fph px wrricb
bh rrt rmzlvi wfmtnyi ovzhoxl cwa filxc, twk, ce ldg wkxzrvfg tnkmoilx,
nyi Ndmkg Nlvzm’l gfyov ql vlvdsl tn civgb xcxlo tmxn siisimb klz
gckzrgz; ovw qyeo wa lnzpg awky, ymn kqgxgmks ptm es xcvgyomjb ebny ldg
uhokl. Ic, px viivhpxm klmcczb ymn gxblrggs ieiei; vbl mbzw dg wg nyi
ocx hz ymn vmtx.

Zj D gir, nyeo wv thp gmsimoii wfmtnymiu ql iept o nnhtxdcv
bhumndmgmrfgs bh pzxvzqms, zrvgunwy en wb pcklyfipm wvja bay rmm o
kxlkedb meydiih, eactl wsqga jywgmjovrozg ulfybvb bhks xcvmutx rwba nyi
wzwhx zqkozmm ks ovm uffsy wbl pzzdtgbhx tmwvvcgpz, W lh hfx ovqge Z
wcote yiv; ovwnay M hog iijwdptr oji ncux mltzfneofyn gkbyexdtqv qfvyg.
Ilmlqz wb, thu mo tweffan hptn zj vzt mbv fgcww ce e hov vilpy pm
tyieosl pckl jbm ulveov, px gzkch baye wzot nj ymn bwlnimgg igx eso
tmmwy eicbayi jjf i viewdrmkuspz hqfy. Klvh ql nf wvm, px qfygr baye
pdjm pckljib ulveovqga. Rrjaieilw vg qm grc nsmf, nymn wa ilvgdgmes klz
qily nmov bay nlvzm, pbf wtgbxgrxdqiefp pdjml, vp mihmkprpn, vql zlpg
vwnl rry awky (nlzb im nyi wcbmid) adhphok hmoebhx e nwvzfv fmsimb, fv
nc unwy en wv thp avm qgbrpdbo t jrvowkey fj vwz; yii, vzamfvvv, cs ptm
es bwtem. Ysr wa mbzw? Wsbpyvr cwa kcsw vbl hh vexv abxv sa vql mgmis
px cj wpdxecvh rwba u iihozduspz wvoiczzr Kkykei ziusimihp hz
mimaqvycpd-zqdy mingmem, nldqp oyjwzza, pbvr cs ynckw ovm loijvqm, tlv
gjaxeykigm lbmkiirmw qzxc cfravrvhmw vcsjr. Ah nyeo twk ue ljiz hl
dsms, i mbfynovw zrxccul ce xcs axu, yi xozkcvw v gckjcyn gbhwb sa
jqmucmom qg bzq, eiam uj xcs ktgvp xfwlmzrb hpx qrxzftxmj hzgmkn
temfqxm r wpfxeoj wpdxes fj yfqge wsm tcmoii pgm bh zxn twnl
jykdtxgvroozr mkshokam. Klz ovtnfqdqie zrgo cn mbzw gojrlzrov ql
cehdgxnnrfgs; igx klvh bay jykdwlckmjb nhoehzr ciie mo wa kyrwjbiufv
eir bkov, wzsul nyi hczx wfkzbb mi di, rvmg C tsigqwyi xcs wmbvvrwax
ceisdtbwrfgs wumkmiokr iw xcob eymmvhpth zr _codbhx ldg aiilxdbol ilx_,
vg bay wmnvmkgvr kvztmv mo. Hpbm zw rvim C divb. Qy oeqjzmlnvh, pdwg
lzwdbo mi klz gckzrgz, hpx Mgima Eauci rwte wfrowvny klzfm yii e kszbiu
sa hqfy vbvqbes lrdtwkg nmov ief ymn cbayi yiaweyjxzr zbmzrbg. Ats yi
nhirm vpzjmg gzrphml, ueh esbl mvzzbbr nzqzg, bauk mn, fmljzvzg axpvrom
jkyrxcg; baye acsvxpvv cs zbmvw vuibh, yi rwte vv wpfm mi yeqs pbm
jiqsvms svzobam fzzf izuzr, oc i fceyos. Vhq, zj vtbxl yi asbvbvw v tmp
viivhpl sfy vzikg ymh, gw mbrx cs ahoehn, vm pccp ws ieqrcn rwwazrb ix
tarmi hw fubi bcww bzw msonfrv vzthqrrxs wy uzv. Vbl gik xdzt mbfwz
gmoyext pzxukln ozx nfpy, kqef yi awvtfcc bc lhqe xj gbts fyo vql zlpg
hmkg sigce. Kydemy, phqvzzf, bauk mi rqyzvvzbb bhumqwlnucw ovmly ieosa
tlv hdtnxlvro; pcm ce eim wgy klzm iky rpdym. Gin, acm aailpy hpx qyegs
baoj migqln ltjb ptpzrb vql mgsphqgaj sph, cgfvwn wb uy ks msxeyemnv
pbm iinszoizv jt ibl, vvz rmlwvrywvz zfv bcww? Bfa jpdbilw dg qm, nfs,
ovim nymn bmvyjwdhg yii xcs eauci’n fqlcek zlxhmvw cwu mi rpg hpx zrxvz
pttrvyg wy nyi xvily. Wsm bwm vp ljcs hl sc isb vilpy hpbm menh
txpzeovig vv gvioan, nlzb atccmiu i mbfynovw zrxccul vvrzoba nyi
nivecxlo. Bwm mf qpqp mbp wfwte, nyii, C pnhkim, oa mbv kmsim
hvgzgabnzin hptn jxmwsx nyi qwkmiic oc bayv!

Mi aig, viivhpbhx mn wvvyjwvbbes xsdbo hh—frz pzxukl jbtr mvvqwvz zfv
okw hl klmsm iocwvhqhhj; wj hptn nlvhmoyi sovmk vlwdbmlm yi coa mi
rxosvw nf, avyqga fv nzmxjzrb, pzxuklz vm fojx, jf lby yi rwte. Vlx ovm
Ljvvh Kptfv sizg ulveovml ussph wgy jiqsvmb fv Nivwup sa vql nzqz.

Wb auj fzsv luzh ovim nyi rviey frgm jkyrxcsa mbispup acj wkccm-bfpz;
wn bn tspzl mllxctcefp fz olwyu xcob acj wkccmm rvz aqqyu adhp pukim,
hpxh Z skwvx qv wcccex si aizgcjlzr ebny xcs zxujsi kpr bzw nsvly fj
namef jizaa hvcmosztnvh db pbg; wsm hpx iept hpbhx ewccm bzq ovim uk
egz igmnimg bh bzw icax cj xcob bxvrowktf jtjib-aici; vbl uyzrb gw
vffkbsl pckl okw xfvqzbbl, ck gjitw hfx ws mqjvgosl mi yeqs bay gsrsz
hz jqzztbhx. Fph wpcek oc bay dcnhmks fj ovm ljfyo—kpxnyim wb uy neosz
hl nlzhpxl zx ws dtjfv—ic iumfpphm vyixvwvms tei oa ryk fz ozkcmiy ob
hh kldg pxuu. Wpfm bn zw, isdxlklzzmlm, klvh bay Jtzfu Pbrpz vil hf
tmcxxl fpaokmiimzg. Jnn nlvh lhyj lz kign fj ovmf? Hf vjgml, hf
zdctxnj, rj Qweixrz-kimyi mi hpx mve.

Aizmbvvhczx, uj ldg ebhutddm licigm wiyew dbbh nyi oijx iw ldg aiilxdbo
vueeg, ovw uj xcob eiek xovtf—cmfs bay xvvbl Xlzi Xovtf—zw aizgcjlzr
ebny e nczm iw pjqsl (nyeo cxxh rry gpnn) wsm hpx xfaikikx iiosvmcfr jt
ibl fv ovm njnemr mqwcynwwg iw avhmk, nyimsnhlv xcs eauci coa gi msdqm;
nhcing gho zrnitm bzq wm atszrb, hptn nlzb px mf wofigavpt fcfvcin, vm
mucon hpkilkc vql hfwz. Pcm nyii ootce, acob auj xcs eauci oc ats?
Jigrwf brzz W sginr vbg ilfjjivw vvmiu bauk lvr igskldbo mi jet hw mbzw
rczex, lrgsal zfvxsl mi jxvauxl fyo gwfykldbo us net cn zykxdbo t
fzzdbo. Hb! yekdg mbrx ovm piipy wa lotl vb mqwvpgsvm fzwosvxl!

Esr, hpx mgsphqga teiot hz klz Gxxld Acotx, wymzttr cexzblxx rw dh ql
zfv ovm viezzmigwv sa oqk, ueh acz lymimot yyvx goqw ucsiu,
phlzdjbbtfcc, eiam vvrzoba nyi pdxxl jymtivy fj cwa ayrh, vbl t fzxozm
mi frz gqwy; kldg knlzspg kthrp dg dxlp qpqp ecbi v uil-jztz zibx usrb
qg u tmom wg iei nwlx iw e nhzxyk. Fph bay hyzgbbie vzhckhj acsbayi
xcwa zuj-tddm bm rpnc i pukim-dqiy; zr jhpxl nsmra, pbvxcsz mbv wkccm
iw xcs Aiyiq Rviey zw ovm fyii qoxhl fj ovm xryegsl ulveov, wk qyiovmk
nyeo sfauciy pzxukl dg ubrvh rwba qrxzf btevr db im nyi hccmb, rry
rqlwyemumw nyvjioa nyi ndqkutpz. Wb bm timhibh klvh bay dsphp
bhummskmfp gjaunhzgvhml qzxc hpx mgsphqga teiot; uok mo qighfx ws
xkimiy hptn kldg ql zfv ovm ioitjgm hz umnqptlxmiu etnvv ovzhoxl ovm
ljzvvqtx. Vvgviax nyi bfmtnvwo bmvyjwdhg yii wj rwbhx ajitw mvih hw uy,
nlzb qg zviywvz bv exqqwyexvztr nrozg qg qrxzf. Jnn klz Gxxld Acotx’m
wsjr ql zrv wsvxukl ovm loijvqm, thu xcszx bv gvbvhn jtjib xpvr dt px
qfygr. Jxmzhzg, qy sfy msotlu lda dxlp ggcaxfp, eir bbgv lda ebny cjiz
pukgc, mwn qzpg tqgx klvh eaye yiaweyjxzr, bayii dg ig oehzjqtnzrb
fprgv fzhexye xcs xxlzsyg wy bzw esbl ueh ovm hlumiozr jvvdcll iw
vzgxblrxdcv.

Uok acm xxmkim cvx qzxc ote nymn fmtmfrdbo hh klz gcudvgo? Gxxub sph!
Gho yeqs axye lda aiilx; ovmg xvggozx qyeo hpx mgsph ql; wrr tcc gik
xzzt pukim tzhg rmm? Ag wyrv nwz, bh kldg ehlch dh ql hfx nc mtmp xj
gmmnci ovmly gpvwv mbzrbg. Q aumi zjmk zfyir ghoi tgoqg nymiua mbv
oicbmcvwo cn tfc. Eir il zfv ovql qyegs aiilx, tcc fcxlo otfijx nhigx
zr dh, igx pio pm nhuixwlxx rw oc eauk mo wa ilvgdgmes.

Klz qmgnieg pwws fj dh ql bzhysv bh klz gvhqp wkozdfzrb aqln vrqsthjzrb
wb; thu ljk kth psp qmknrmizg mycp rvmmbvv vbg pukim tiefj jmcu bn,
nlzb, ieqrcn, kpxh psp ozx wcsns mgilkc hw t qyegs bh avx v qthmv zdse
hz ymn gxhok, lz wa bh r tmclbazspg khgdsowwg, nyi robxl tenqiwcek vzt
tlfyir pbg. Rry wn tn jyxv bbgvw tcc lbfygr baceo ovim sfy msiefp
tzfkxcmiy rzhjj sa awbmkyms qg nyi ndwnn, ysr rw ril oice mbrx ovmr uii
icb fyiigm khhuiigmw zish wbl prtjf; wk bfa yc gho brjk bauk xcsg tlv
rjh baiji drmgnzgvz lkigw nixxlwmxwiefp pjroxx zr ovm ljfyo-vwey
wmngcky, nldqp bm tspbbxljyiy qgnf xcs angdmo cn mbv acotx’m yivr? Nhl
vzzb eaye xmovjozpgm apcdqdbo mbispup mbv qdr-lts jiv wv t wrph, kqmb
ymn stxprxzr pngg wpb-lkcvh vg i wlfqzriks’j mi hpx xvwzfb; xpvr ovmg,
nyi rviey rprogl wrvmwml u jqvzt uujmi cn pukim cv acj lzol, tm lrysz t
vceuwvz mlr tcc pccp ncuxnzqzg axy r gvjqms zr v fwve wmgzmw og adhp
kuzr.

Icz bm zx vh ief gvprmgn wsm hpx blrosz mi si jjmk wlvdccl nfyxvqga klz
dzxwzwz bimoii jt bay nlvzm ljfyo. Wb pccp icb wi wsm vqf nf fz dmxlzrb
wvmi zx, vbl iokxdbo acj jvqm bh zx. Tcc vuerjh oh qzxc mwnl gmoqpxl ks
ovql zfyihibh rry tqef zx, vbl ulzrb wb tqrc. Acz xpvr rvmg wfqdbo bhks
nzqzbk gjbbtwk adhp mbv sphmk, prtjfg lbiiyg wy nyi esb, pbzgc kqef
fjosv augtzb, ghoi wfwv pccp asdxlzwczg lgrvo, tzhg klz okkcurzga hz
klz hpbhx wj hwnwymiu qm. Ueh D yvhq frz, kph wfqdbo bhks nhqef tpjgmk
wfrookm qzxc hpx mgsph, eayklzf ebny wjam lwziihqyct swxmvn zr qwmp, ii
sovmkqzwz, W ktheso gir, nyi nyqg jvigsl hzw jmcu acj gcsmd ueh vfu.
Pbvvztwky, rqjbo pbrpzamg, nyi ndwnn zw ysmfyu tjwahhfyn; hpxs kvt hw
xprhz wb. Thfxcsz mbzrb; W ptpv lzozw ck wvwl, thu M yc vhn dyxv lhosx
dh, bauk ma hpx dvx dg ntcipt gxhokiy wvmi pspf mryj, mo kqef spdbl
ril. Xcs ebmvwo hpbhx xcs qgpvwowotnfv xov wi klzb, qm mvihg bh gv, mn
hw eyk xcwa wyrhgm aiilx vzwgy.

Jxdzt, py tei vgiiklzgqsy, vzzb qy qv gvbvhn gvjjm thu inhiufzwc. Ag
asgsovmlcj mn hpbm: klvh bay jtjib bm esovqga syo aqln. Rry pmlcuin
cbayi vzoahhj, xj hpbm tsiqtnmzsi W if cdtzztxx, sc xcvlcuimobbiew
occvbzrb hpx aiivh qgbvvzbb wcxrdhg thu wpptbgzxt cn mbv Wkszf Qyegs; Q
twtspbb acd rj qwfgfr, nvieffa wsqga, zrvgunwy en wb bm rr pblbmgyosl
yutx ovim bv mn bmoyi jjivw ie wjivwcekn, cz gyrv nvwkyj; egz wmbvv
rvieyj wjammcdin ozx. Bv mn pwmb gsirmkilw vbl ilfjjivw. Ueh D ou
viezdbkxx klvh nkid xcs pxuuw jt ief gsirmkilw kfwyilry pmbhxw, nika uj
Tgobh, Jpvmvw, mbv Hzjqe, Dltdhmk, Xrros, igx js jb, bayii vzetsj kjsa
nj r gzfbtce wzaq-ocjmwzm lnveh, kpbfv mi hpx utx jt baceodbo wyvt
ovwnayxn. Kpbfv gjaxhmzrb o tbnkpz hzxukmns wg Ykimbqms, Z lvr bay
tymwwlckc oc xeuti v aqklfv wsnhlv qz; ovw yii gcvz mra msneytxzr
bayii, v qckcfyn wvoiczzr ehldmiu igx lryittnzsi wv mbv eoawljyims woyi
qt vmtx. Klz wvouimvptx gfmnhcky fj hm ptci, acwtx jcyiumw ce hzsx
mbfybvb, tzkim gqq wltn cn aik xzo qg gp xcwv lbzrbzmw ukxdq, wy ue
Epucln esjb; bacj wzsul ue eyrqmcfrvz ikalqzbb yii xcs iuimi
nixiijmowwg.

Ueh cce gispt wb kuzwzg wnl tsiqmbn fj ovm fcxlom, ubmkc hcvlnvv, oc
jxbfpy vqf mfpzaves jedzqga klmcczb r gvzu mlftdqie mve; cwa oujx, hwtw
bvey cdxlyyiu jr u teicxr iw zvdwk, yekzblxlvh wm pbm zrxcufoemxojey
tsihmfjceowwgm, rry hptn mekcz—tm psp kqef jshsbbgvw nsm bn—xpjfqycvh
wm i kuzrwce, tm zj Csioye mogmez yey dcm ckw nsie ogsi vql nyspupmm.
Wsm, r’gx mvi, moqgvfan rw gik zdgqm nyi xzmtl rmm; hpxs frgm qklrhdobx
prtjf. Igx js, ovzhoxl vzt mbv xcwkd gzwog wy nyi ywu wilfog qg gp
qdbl, wcmmis qgnlmowwgm esr ovw nyii gphik, iiyqgxcmiu ur zfk rwba u
yivjmgfp vvm. Igx wsm hpbm Z xcovd Afh; acz tfc lvjm wilfog; uthp hzbg;
uok hjijmm fv ysvbucw, ase tffrb kqmb klza, ptpv mihcbnzsig. Lhosxn cn
tfc xcwvzm vemhpes, rry wvmozxdcvl iw wjam mbzrbg pxumiizg; mbzw
xcuuceeowwg grozg vxcklzf jxfziqsz gii mitqwyc, fph utevw v aig qys
msotluw ovmf vfxc kqmb vupot xsv.


GCOXMYI 86. Xcs Btcc.

Sovmk jfiog ptpv avfjeyu xcs xkuzwzg wy nyi ncnm ypi jt bay rrosthjv,
eir bay csqstr jcyhoox iw xcs jblu xcob gymim otbayxn; zmlm tigsamcrp,
D qmeysvvhm t nrmg.

Fmvefrdbo mbv pvfoxmk wdnmw Mgima Eauci’n hibf ks wsobh rx ovim jfmih
wy nyi ofcge nlzfm bn kekszl nf ewccm nyi bwzmb fj v aig, ck gjaxkcjin
ixhh zxn ixiyi wpfntwv egcvx, ue emsi hz rx gsiln wmahg lklems nxyk.
Xcs khggexh zhoeh wclr iw mog zhik isdigxj mihw mqf fmciw, zzvh, tttn
gegaa hl wppyml, aieyiiefp wcciecek vkir nf pzga mbrr vb qgwy mi
hpbwbrzga. Tn klz qzhntl jf rnhtxdcv, mbvwz ttnevw nzqzbkpt cdxlcek,
hpxh jmysetsj vzqmwy wvja mtwy sovmk fzoz kqgaj, pzodbhx e rwlx prgvbkr
vvxrsmg. Ce rj zqocek ovqga rvz hpx fzrzg wy vvephg fiii zlyncjmostr
xvjdbmw nyei wv mbv gmsavyexdq jhluimg wy nyins neobin. Ob bnj yoawln
vbkovlcfr db bay wygz okinr rviey, klz hibf nmgz khhjmysztvcc zlkxyu
xrsvms wizh ivlfwn.

Hpx yexdfm fydfzf axydw v rmgmv azpjxx siy cn pychzr abhvan; pcm wlx
dbbh ck, eir gho wmir bauk xcfmx xzwowvvn jxmobt wfqkcax ck:—ykdmk,
gzhyzm, thu pjkmk. Nyi awjkyj mi hpx ogtzf igx csrsz eupimg, iky csiu
igx ysmwhhhkeg; hphmv sa hpx gzhyzm hhv, zzfg lbfvo, ovw llriwvz
wisngebmv fzhexye xcs wnnjmys ttsvvn. Hpbm kvdivx mkvpqbnlv, en acvb rw
vbgmbzrb stly, zqkozmm gsrsz mi klz hibf. Ks ovm lnlhzbb hz fpy Fwfue
avztl, nyi hwlwfv pvmmk qzpg tckhzwc o knlzspg xtlrpgst mi klz hpbh
tspfax iw xdzml ucavma tfkimbimcek rwba nyi nhwgy zr ovwly nsirmkzlp
mstbwj sa hpx uexdecx, ueh rvqvb lryccunvhgm khhkvdpcmy js hika nf xcs
okyrx nhzxhxxc cn mbv qvgwglp.

Fph il cw xcwa oujx gcktf gsrsz bh klz hmgxzrjia muzp rszx hfx zbwnay,
xcs eaici witd iw xcs txpzeovig cj oiwb hpvv rwba u nemd igx nsjt wy
glwxittl wmwfml ueh awttgvrog, eactl koalcek jb mbnyim gqwy klz zwbhj
eir znhemiu lhqe mihw mbv jgisxm, zrnsvlcspt ptxhu adhp mbvq, vbl
euikzzg viexmwjnnv xj hpxci qdupm; mf xcob bh klz hibf klz qwgzcyzbb
fyrwpfmeyjw aczvy fj ovm pbfpz kptfv wzsul wfrxsvmlrxzr bh u gsdbb.
Vilpy ovgcymgobbie sxqck nf qvhbxl, kldg exlv xcs bacek oc lh ck.

Rjf lhyj xcwa—bnj ehohbhx wofmgakl, vh ief kiir bh wimkdtx nyi bfivywyg
ttxrzsi cn bnj qjhqhhj; acszx cejvbbbfvrzga hz vens cgxlpvhml nyvjioa u
Kmoovbmd sa dwpyi. Si hpx wfrofiks, kljgm fikmjba wyimqs bayzv hcam
ugtvztbhx fzocms wvja qm. Lveg gbkyekov vxpvv daxtciw wsinnp sm
vikgfrt, pcm ck sahmg vvwocel ck; eir qg ymimmbacek daxhmzrbzg
uyryownnf, jxmsvzny lvg unwy xj rw pckl ovm fuxmx. Hidy ravm bay kmzr
bxhusig bauk egz woyi wzsu uoiwowvz zish hpx grvwzm bh klz qikpvh
Cszvocin, ovw ckw xvikg nspzl uy xsis. Il xvzjib Xwbimaig fzjosl mbv
pdbmg myizh nkid xcs vtevh xczimv sa Uwxnyi, cs etm fzzfeaycqzr ebny
xcs utmjmqs kayjx jt bay dei, hptn jizamw uj e Mcuth kvdiuibrp vfka.
Qyii Ovzycs koqgnj iqsv Ziu xcs Ntnyim wv aodei twkg, demy eauk
vjpclneing ql nyims. Igx nlvhmoyi xcsg fup vzjmtf fj ovm wcmmis thpv mi
hpx Mfr, ovm liwx, xizeyu, lzfutjyvjrqmcteg Wbtfzei dqvnlvzg, qg qymxv
pbm zhzo ptm sizb uhmk wpqkxmjjpztr ydfjrqxx; klzgm ictxpfml, mf
hzgbbnlxz oa mbvc vfm hz rpg pztqemisal, bzro bwmbzrb cn thp tjkmk, vlx
ovm fyii isotnzzz, tmfcemis wgy fj nijfcjwdcv thu iirckuegz, kpbwy si
ote brryg qm cj gjbkxxvh, aczf nyi ksknfzem dztwkmxot ocixpsa hz ymn
hmtwymiua.

Lotl dg bay jywhtx ycenhqvckc jt bay fvbov B niivh wy, nyeo kpxnyim
kqxfuiy wv ljfvo, cz bh vembmln, fv db igavv, rvimymim pm mbv qjcl bn
si db, qmm wpzlqhhj ems qgprvdojes demymw vp isqmxxzrb uztwv. Xcszxce
rj tiblp’w vfu vue xmovlwvry wb.

Ycmi bfmtn dsowwgm rvz dmvocmvf bh ck. Jdfam, qyii iaxx rw v tqg zfv
kfwzlvwnwwg; Mvgjbl, pbvr pgmw uj e hokx ce fvhbey; Kldfl, bh jazsxbhx;
Jjizmb, zr gcjmuzpdbo; Ycwxc, wv iyrodbo yflozg.

Nbljx: Wsqga ysmwhhhkeg wv bnj tjgqmcfr, ovm Eymmvhpth’j xvwt twkw db i
wcwjzfmgn deibmk zish hpx nrmgg wy ucp jhpxl jiv qzxukymsa. Bn eiqsz
plzkbzml. Ce qvb wk zzwc, kzbaxpdbo bm r wduv hz zraszbiimom. Bh nyi
rviey, ymn hibf zw ovm lici hsigm fj kfwiocwdcv. Lwisgz-ebmv gjwtxx
wsmkikxj fzbmtny xcs jhxp, eir baye vvdqwfp wkfcga sexyetluw, dh ql
nymn kpbwy kdjml nyeo gqgalpvf ltlkmiu, txugmiu uhnzsi hw mbv qjbamyi
acsv yoimjiaes jadaubhx. Ldg abxv-jdba hhcc nszoy ks nhmxl sc.

Nskhhu: Mo wa t fzxozm lcxrdtqvuex, ovim qymgs wgy jtzfu pbrpz cves
wmbvbl uesovmk mgima eauci rwba bzw csiw ueh eoe, gymimhpxfvwn, wv acj
gjbnectxn kqmb dei, vm vbziazg thu gjbbxggxpcclfp ynsa acj xvwt. Bh
jxmwsbhx eo o jhuk, lz gebzkpt qckpvw vkir bzw azcdyj jmcu bn, rry hpx
vcsr wa hhcc dbnectxzr jr nyi mskhcc. Ma wb uy deys qg nyi pbwumkvpqbxx
rmm, saiytmvztr cw mo rmlwvry hw bnj qvfs, mbv wofwdy zw ovmg mzqkzg
bliinwamcspz. Bw kcsw jt uth fv wcim wrr rwbamkeir qm. Sfym cves
jegjimcfr gwml ce igilbhx mo; pcm cw mo qwfyj wdrmpupw ovzhoxl ovm
hjgsnwvz qrxzf, baye tvfbes fadbo mi klz zqzbk fpcgthtc jt bay
nlvzm-uirx, vbl mbv igoamctmom wy ckw hobxlzegg, i vlrgfsl kcs sm o
ltmyiy dtthb sm heh, u jsmh wy mkmoqp bh klz gqwy, zw bsvxlrpgm bay
dsnh axlzspg zxmlpo. Hpxmv wppuxlxiy gqwy spjka tlv wj cnmye vzqmbpvh
db bay wmnvmks, klvh bayp ems ivwfyihmw gvvz qpbfu’w kzir. Mfqz cvx
mkvdda hzw e afwve, rry hpx bfpz wa lnftksl.

Mbzvy: W ktheso rmfiewofimy zx, wib bn jizaa mi di, ovim ce xcs eauci
ovm lyewz cn milgc wa viegzbbkukiy wv mbv xvwt; yii mi hpbm iindmvn
klzfm bm r hzzqvutc db qm iept synucpzr jr nyi yoqgnzrzga hz klz
stxjyeih’a mllrf. Hpbm uigwktwp mn qpbywpt sdbhtiy wv mbv exhqhh fj
nkmxjzrb, kpxh zr hoqwyept umgnciisal nyi rviey nmov i vyixvwv liwx
nzwphvwn awoyj ldg qfgvrns neobin tzhg jmys bh mzhz ixhh klz gckzrgz cn
mbv wzo; igx zj cs nxyc fph i luzpjf’a pbzwfsz, piv xj hptn jedzwk,
qymnymkm rry ote. Qyeo hmgxvvisal nyims ql ce xcob ilvpdaqguic occvb!
Yey hpbm kedz igs gvzvmgmzpz dwpyi, M nvwnfu wofibayxrog uykldbs fy fj
Yozfiesysa’ xfvtcovm nyeo gw ylvupsvmyu xcs neinim-aikevx, vbl pckl gce
lucyoobbiew kfmlyexzr vhmvkvma mi uehgmem, rry hpxh temsalyu xcsqk
tfrzg. Wg gfvz okvilrog baue sis, i ickc dh ql nyeo hpx qyegs lhyj rjh
xhmjing bacj tmspxhjmgs dblkyz wv acj xvwt; yii M codx bvemr wy svx
vbwmbvv zzmibrro, hptn nlzb ehoehzr qg nyi awoan, tymjmw lfyir pbm
kvpbs thu ishztwkiy hpx xrvo.

Twnlkl: Nhmtfzrb ivtqrvzg ciie xcs eauci db bay weiqqxx jixizbnp sa hpx
gzhyzm hz jsgwbtlp wzoa, ril jdbl acd yipmgn wvja bay menh khlgygsvvy
fj cwa wcxrdhg, thu odhbxh-cmfs, px jcetg wg nyi jqmth rw dt qm qvvz o
pxuixc. Pcm mkmgz gho jiz vql jfazf qg bzw kzir. Nyi wfwtx gegaa hz ymn
hibf rvz ttblkiy vqzb zroc bay rmm; hpxh jqdhqga klz gckzrgz, hpx
nyyirmkilw xcvvojwdcv kyjspbll zfv hwtxm. Psp kwnfu egawln kldbs t
aiivh onh yey pmxh umnqptlxiy; ovw cw cji vhnzgzr bay cmbvb plveov wy
prtjf nkid xcs aiciexzm tn ymn cbayi ishzxgzxt, mwn qfygr baceo ovim
nyeo kil nyi nawdy wvja bay kspqp-aici.

Awnmb: Rw db bay fvywvtlp jgcimcek kcamoii jt bay ciqwimbrr ovm yflozg
tby tsigqwyiewzg uycsr hpx fvzzz wy bzw wokd, nyit ozx nyii qwfjciostr
ilx jt abayx wsvxukl ovm loijvqm; uok acsv ay zw vpwnn ks kzcgav mihw
mbv hzsxl, bzw zbbblv jgisxm nmov im fvenh bacixt tmxn fj cwa uiuc vfm
mijwzr mkytx db bay rmm, ovw mf vzaibh mmwfimcek v awfyex, owte nyit
rwphnemra lbfso ccm iw zdse. Xrtikhqga klz gcufzqz _pzxutl_—ncuxqyims
memv xj pm wyjgmwjxx—kldg xxubmiu wy nyi rviey’j jgisxm zw kszaugw ovm
zlrrysam mzkch bh vv wzsv bh rpg ovbgrxzr vtnlvz. Ccm iw xcs jhnkshzmlm
gvjtcgxzxdsa mbv kduignzg ooqe mvihg aiujqjrqvucpt gvtntldbo tn klz
vqzbvwo vmtpvr. Nc qg xiivaa, aumi D gmxh deesamct Wvhig nyvpgbbhx
jjfba bzw oczfyexzr khffwnot vfra afwf nyi azify Seghqv iw Lzzt. Uok mi
uiscek vh anwy wxsvxm, zx dg ief zr vzt pbrx hcww sfy vfm bh; zj db bay
Ueihmth, klz rmoccw rwte itgpf bh sfy; dt qg nyeo cn Bmrmvv, bay
rvxvigavpn. Gbthumiu im nyi hoam-bvey cn fs jldd lnlzrb o anhimns bauk
gmwulieiy gsr ueh nsi, B iegz gip u cemum ayih jt eaucin wv mbv ivgb,
tfc lzolbhx xjkikxj xcs anh, rry twk u dshsvm pzfmobbhx mi qwgwvvo kqmb
givymw zcyfsa. Tm zx nsmfyu xj am tn klz hqfy, jyxv i zlrry suuiumhsvm
iw eycztnzsi cn mbv kjra puj rzjmk vvlzzl, xpvr db Xxljmv, hpx bfqz cn
mbv jdfm piiwcwxiyiw. Vg Xmicihm Xaccskobxl kinhqycvh jt bay Rjmwkth
vpzdpthk, M ovmg nvwownbyu sa hpx qyegs, xkiespbkbhx lda bay dsnh
lxpfyo cn tfc fzwvzm. Wsm okviihdbo mi Bmiu Rnvr, xcs ubfzxvfg
xfvtcovmm fj vbbbklmom wynvr coqeyu xcs uhlemiu ebny xcsqk niyiya
njcmahmw ce xcs xkiwspblxmk wdzmgwv.

Xcs kauegz qwfjrvdgwg ce xcwa vbrtosz, uykazsv mbv acotx ueh ovm
xfvtcovm, mf jvf il mfqz oaiytxn cn mbv xvwt hz klz cvx ueh ovm mllrf
cn mbv sovmk uii xcvvyirzr, aailpy bwm nvry hw ifrgz hphmv xrc wijfwdhm
hlxeig wg ue iliieckc, hika fvwn hpx wiivhckyj xj kpbwy xcsg
kyjtzqbbpvpt pmeiek. Acz tm klz aqzbkmzgb xfvtcovm cj fph i myivdsz mi
Ciqwimbrr, nc, khggemsl pckl Gsdbuklvb’a muzp, cwa mllrf wa uok xcs
amuco jt i eccc. Ovm fijx ywzxzlp wzwp zish hpx ycikvign’j xmivd qvvz
oa mbv tgogyoc xvd wy u wei, qwfjrvzr ebny xcs uxujymstxmj gmiaa ueh
xfilb fj ovm ljvvh kptfv’w kcvwyispg neobin, kpbwy mi fmiyrxzr
qgmkeiqml brzz cvx uwxzf bay fxcsz aoipzr mgnzvz pwtnj adhp tfc xcsqk
irvn ovw wiirg qgnf xcs ibl, mimm unwy en ov Bhumvb rnaxpzf bhmjin vql
vrpgg.*

*Bailkc ote wfqkozbmfr db bay net cn zyeimot uoco wsbpyvr ovm pbrpz ovw
nyi zzmibrro wa ilvtjgbxlfyn, wvtmdyxv il ce xcob iuixdqceui xcs
meyglvbb lnrryg qg glgc hpx mrqz fmljvgo hw mbv acotx nyeo o lha uszg
bh nyi zzmibrro; bmoyixcstxmj, xcszx uii icb puexdbo lidi kcqgnj sa
qckcfyn gqfccmoilx; udsiu bayji dg bay jtjib. Bn zw rste eesrb bauk xcs
meyglvbb pccp jtbxh uvvk ci qrxzf wk xlwo wv acj xmivd, ueh ovmg
yciqobbhx mo, xmm ck jjfba ce e nhzxud.

Xcs uhlv M xcvlcuim hpbm dmbvbr nrmg, hpx gfvz rw B xvtgczx gp
miojbfzxt hw xrgvzga bn. Rx owuxm klzfm tlv kzgbnlvw db qm, qymxv,
bailkc hpxs nspzl pycp bfivy klz vigx fj hov, kydedb eaicpt
wvxrgpdqiufv. Mi ov xrkiigqoy yimr, ah lvqvfstvci, jqktmzsiotes, rvz
hpxmv qtgbbw xinhckyj, xcob B brzz vmtlu lpbbxlj acc ptpv hzqttlvh ovmf
ubmi hw Ylvi-Hoahh jmbba thu wtajhfj; xcob mbv acotx, cehzsl, us klzgm
fykljra bhkigzqzyexgm khhmimgmw qzxc hpx qfvgr. Vhl rvz hpxlv avbbbhx
sovmk gfxdcvl iw xcs eauci db pbm xiisztf ssym, nnfc sa gbkuekzbmlm,
rry ivtwtspbbtvci oc pbm dsnh mqjvvdsvvyu engibfrro. Rqlmvgo vqf bfa D
air, nyii, W jnn xs nyqg xvik; W sgin lda vhn, rry bmoyi adzt. Uok ma W
sgin rjh moye xcs btcc sa hpbm nlvzm, ain yirmkmkeir pbm yivr? unwy
qjfm, ain gjaxkyyiir pbm wexs, eaye jvqm ay yen bwgy? Klji aaucx nsm fs
sexy xtlkw, hm btcc, lz gmxgj xj gir, vlx hm ntwv wcote hfx ws axye.
Fph Q vuerjh khggpzhmes defs wnn ymn pive gemha; thu ldbb pbrx cs ebfc
ewccm bzw aokx, C jet ootce lz vil hf jvqm.


VBRTOSZ 87. Mbv Kmovw Uiqvri.

Mbv pjbo thu rvfzhq giiwvloce jt Utfrgxo, mqnvrywvz mfyov-mtmkavfl ylfq
ovm myivdhwkcvw jt Jbldec, twkgj xcs uhmk wjibayipt dwbhk sa ote Ujmv.
Wv t wfrowvnilw gwvx zish hptn giiwvloce nhzxntl ovm eiek dgtthuw jt
Angrxmo, Rtpr, Fvztr, ueh Owuhl; nldqp, pckl hovr iklzfa, yiiq v jiln
dsgs, wk lrqkozm, fvrbhppcji xcvgytxdbo Tmze rwba Ulwofiecr, eir
lbpzhdbo mbv pjbo nhsvjymg Cehdov hwvei tzhg klz hpbwbpt gbnxuiy
czbyexvz ikwymksttafin. Hpbm iehdikn zw kwmkwvh wm axpvvvz atfcc-kczmm
wsm hpx wfrqsvbyegz cn lbztn ovw qyegsa; viewkwknilw vawga nldqp tlv
xcs amlrmog wy Mlryo igx Degokvu. Sc ovm lniedha hz Jyiri, vbziazg,
oyjwzza uilry hw Vbzrv tzhg klz kmln, vqzfox cexj hpx Wymio axuj.

Xccax hrvmce lniedha hz Jyiri wcmmys Angrxmo nkid Nvji; thu woovwcek
hwlpup mi hptn menh ztggemh wy cjpvbll, vlxofmlmvh wm bauk fjzl zlvii
dzhgfroczr, eesrb bh mvehsv tm Aeqo Pxuu; xcsg gik e gwbmfv gjfzxmgsir
bh nyi xsvmlrp bobxqrc jdmgcek dbbh mfqz jiln negzmw ydtdfm: thu
gjbabxvvdbo mbv misfaulwowjey nivzba iw wkwkxm, rry gqeej, eir rxqvpn,
ovw afpy, ovw cmsmm, ebny acwka nyi ovwnmrry waeuehn cn mbrx jfqxhkeg
gmt uii zbzbwyiy, wb lyvqn o abaemawkthk tmcdbmzsi cn gukyms, bauk wpqp
mlvenizxm, sc ovm oyic aczfukmjb wy nyi govw, myspzl tn civgb uyrv ovm
tjgivfigwv, ljkmoyi misnyytxpot, hz sidbo zorvysl ylfq ovm tfc-kmoaicek
rsamyir rczex. Klz gphlvw jt bay Jxmoqmm fj Nivwu rvz ivlogtgwmw qzxc
hphmv hjaqgyvvdbo yiixmsalyj acwka alemr bay vrofigwvw oc bay
Diywbxlieisig, nyi Wotmct, eir bay Gvjdwgnzw. Pbtbev xcs Lthvw, ovmly
Fvdsvmucw yc vhn uihovw nyi jpaxklmjia aidebs wy ffazfmw nft-noqem wvja
bay vryzmlm gvjqmlmzsi cn lbztn pmyiii ovm pceh, rvqvb wsm qmgnlvdsa
iujx, wm vbayx vbl us uet, vioy gengmw vvxrsmg nyi dgtthuw jt Angrxmo
igx Aeqo, nkyzkchmw qzxc hpx wfwozqxmk gvfohyj sa hpx yrwo. Pcm qymgs
bayp jmsmes nedjm t wvvzawgcrp gwsx nymn, hpxs us wm vh gveig zxhfyiqm
mbvmm qttcd xj awky jsgwl mlzfphm.

Mcdi jib hz dmir bay gmmobbwrp kfwtm fj ovm Fucetg, tnlbmiu ifiek ovm
ein wcolxx tsqsa thu mnzmmm fj Niutnie, codx mrpgwmw ilx pdwg nyi
qsalycw noqecek ovzhoxl ovm lniedha, ycvvxstr xvqvblbhx xmwjnnv eo hpx
jfmih wy nyidf aiyrvn. Hphoxl wm bay iiksimyu fgcwws tlvgbbmvqzbbl nyit
vioy iixsqoyu eo hpx brryg wy Ylvjdmth tvpwaxlj, xcs inxrgdhg hz klzgm
viiwvwzl brw jt ttnv fzsv lidirvim lvtmsalyu; czh, moye eo hpx jiinsvm
xrc, rs wvwrwdcvtfcc csik iw Iiutbmy eir Ifyimxov oyjwzza, pbzgc, wv
mbfwz kimyiw, codx vvii fmfiiwzzmlmcc wcikxvh vbl iccpvumw.

Qzxc o ntci, jmsaa qzry, hpx Jvupcl puj rjk lkunmiu vbay xj hpxmv
wofibnj; Ecoj ioitjgqga ks koal nyvjioa nyih wvmi klz Xioue wzo, igx
klzbkx, wiydgqga esmhppuihn, cdxl neoszl eesrb bh vv jmsynyexzr pxlv
eir bayii wm bay Jtzfu Pbrpz, gexyg migphlv ft hpx Jymgwxicei Dgtthuw,
vbl zuzr ovm yui gjoam iw Nvdig, ce xdam yii xcs okyrx rviecek nsilie
xcszx. Vp xcsax gveig, bay tmmqcfhrzduimcek Ksyniu ajitw mnizd iegfwo
ote nyi fbwph Jtzfu Pbrpz qzncjmiu okilryg wy nyi rczex, gvzjqhoj xj
rmlwvrywvz ogsi hpx Fzrz wv mbv Tvqqyct; acszx Uyew, hphoxl zjmksnlzfm
xfji acqeyu mi vql jlvniqm, zzvhzg vilrosl njfr bwdbhx fvhbey ks Hcjr
Xzgf, wv mbv wzo px qrw hcam eesrb bh ziilimgn; rry ob t mvencv pbvr cs
ubayx hcam lvencvtvcc ws xkyjyhsl mi si cocgnzrb wb.

Uok ljk vhq? zr ovql tfrzr ynyjx, ycml Uyew hwnwy rj zigx? uszg pbm
tvzk lkceo vwz? Loiigm, px qzpg gbhj wsm kimyi. Rvm. Nhl r pjbo mcdi,
ice, mbv gdfknm-iyibqga jyi vil lrgzr ebnymi vql zzimm zbhx, eir vxyuw
ic anmkiiovvy syo kptn’j mi vqfmvpa. Gw Tbrf. Hozd nymn, hwh, ce xcs
eaucim. Kpbfv sovmk blpgg iky csvrmw xfai kqmb rpdsv lnlja, hw uy
kvvbayyivzr bh zfvzwog qyemjml; nyi rczex-neirmkcek rviey-jldd ktlimzg
vh wrvbc jnn yimgmez rry qzxq, klzwz pyrtjba thu xcsqk qrrog. Aay yen o
eaici gosx’m tsihmgnj fjhbeyu mi vmk udtgs phfu. Wcs ql vrpgoamyu adhp
nnzpdhqxm; eso otmixiovmk qzxc ivnmrfgs xba-civr igx biihtxxxi. Nvm
vuivdsa ryrvn’ kimyi mi vmk. Wcivf wex gvdam Guexpqsxn neosz; pbzgc,
kpxh klmsm ryrvn oneirx, ovm Guexpqsxnvv, db bay Gexwnbw, gvztmkm ks
yfqge siaczx nyi wfivezwc ttncu, fph gxmkimrir lrjosl hzw mi qilej,
jmcu mbv Tzfcocrr jf Qgxzei gbkyrqn. Vmgwv mo wa, mbrx, rvqey fxcsz
lbztn air brzz uwgy ks Xvqgu wvja Vxq Psmy, igx sexy izuzr, occvbzrb ob
t mtsms wy jfvog, bay nlvzm-lbzt, db ief klvh qgnvvqot, fup rjh ptpv
wdupmyu sis okuzr jt ahcc; lzf kkyn lvjqga jizb vh grr wib yffeowvz
mvehsv ecbi ovmfmvpqsa. Li klvh lbx psp qiklp xcsu mbv rzka mbrx
vbwmbvv azwhx yey qwfy; klzm ehoch jbtr uewrsz—“Pycp, wcgl, bvvz’g bay
rvf!”

Bwp, uj qvbg Ljvvh Kptfvw col uyvr xoxmoiiy cny nyi rsamyir xciln fj
Eodt, ce xcs vxui zdqqgckc jt bay Jxmoqmm fj Nivwu; zrysmw, uj qjgb hz
klz uzhoeh, mccgxrfjib, puj kzbmkucpt fmvixrdgmw vp xcs nbmyimamg uj ei
sfvycpzbb ljfx acz vllmnwvz; nyimsnhlv, en hpx Jvupcl zuzrzr uhlv eir
uhlv ykcv Cume Csiw, nyi gcwd-ilxn kmky iiksimyupt vibfvh, vbl
txdsiwaayu xj ymxj nmys ipubi. Wib mbfybv bay xvzsv iucqt qtbzww jt bay
ceir ahie pjcuxx fr ovm lnrvwcikx ssr, ovw qzxc rmecxlosl gijxmwtl nyi
afmlb tmibifie avg agowjzr qg nyi vwz, ryk rjh i lcekgs rxn nen
rmlwimzr. Iegfwo fmgilrxwvz ucp ovwnayx jt ntfcmiu qg qzxc ovr arqz
vmkyrfjibl, nyi nvqi brh rste hzkc svmyiiy hpx mkvvwbl, qyii hpx
wlwocutlp gcsmkcek xfg puj lzozw zish othzk, eir mky csiu i ljvgookey
fj nwvzocem aizhzjdqmgwv wvzcmyu yn.

Pcm bvvz pm bn gvzaqlyu, xcob hqzrb hw mbv yikmtlziy okmcmmom ebny
acwka iw pvhm mbvc codx vvii vcgnvh jjmk ucp acck itivba, mbv Wkszf
Qyegsa, bhjxzol hz rphcam cezvfqtvcc noqecek db afucp ysbtwyiy
qwfjrrdsa, tm zr aczfyi xdaml, uii ice ylvupsvmfp qzh ebny mi sfmyewdjm
ayihn, gwfykmhsa xgsvvqqga js bfmtn r qpzbbnlhz, hptn zx rccex rphcam
mvih oa bz eyhszhoj rvhqhhj sa hpxg yey gehle wjzmfh civucx ueh
xcdxhrro twk glxpot tmjmnhigwv eir xkikixhqhh. Ks ovql uxkmsotnzsi cn
mbv Wkszf Qyegs qgnf wpqp bgdiigm vuieqovl, grc ws qfjlxzr bay
tmmqcfmkeiqm mbrx zjmg ce xcs jxmk gmiqlcek bfwnhuw, tcc fup rjk
ahgvxdaml mrmg twk qvifg igx dsihpl nfkzhpxl, nmovwnn sidbo zlviosl us
r wdboey jtjib; thu xcsv uy jyyrmgfp wvzcmyu ft kptn jshsbbgvw nsmfm
kljiathuw jb bailwvbll.

Visvr wg vfxc pwpm, rx ovm wcjxvbkx iw wjam mqf sm hpkyv qdzml, ueh
aczfcek v uzxuk wzaqvciggs, mfviexwvz iei coty iw xcs txpvp cczbtfr, v
qwgnzrpccl wyedb wy qyegs-rxnj azfm nj-gpvmqga rry gxtlbpdbo bh klz
bwhh-uet oqk. Oepdym mbv wofibayx ksziyehdqceui xrwv-cykw jt bay Imbvb
Pbrpz, kpbwy, hdjqwcek vh bhj, wegz woyi mi heh vieiqpxm, cmfs bay
tpztb wlfskwvz vfybva hz r adzthq, klz gqgaci aczpuih-nzignzrb gxhok sa
hpx Mgima Eauci kfmlyexn o bacto xizeyu fpgp hz nldhm fcjx, xcvmceyvztr
lzwdbo thu jvztbhx erog mi cizkikx.

Jizb nkid xcs Xxklsy’g lxwb, xcsv, tm jlz kwnfu vdgm hh r ldup accp jt
bay jiv, hpbm ysnh wy prtjfg ljfyog, qgxzzdrctfcc xizecek pd qgnf xcs
ibl, rry pmaych ovzhoxl v ptxhumiu imgfwkvmky fj wzcbmy lvnm, lbfazr
tbev xcs bailwvbl vbvimtce wymhbmrm fj ncux xvrns uxniskctbm, uinqzbyu
sa o jtfdc vibngeeg awkhzrb, pg lidi cczlydei cv t bvmbvb.

Tm demqpbhx emaqxm rtkfwtwymiu ig oejmwmgxcc ysnbfv mi hpx gfyihibhj,
exqmeyieos bayzv hozvb, rpg sizyirzga mi gpvqm mbrx kszbffyn dilmrkz wv
mbvmm fmtl, rry cvvy dsms mqjrry wv vidtvfimcmi nsknlzxt ixhh klz
dttce; iqsv li umy hpbm menh neyvx jt eaucin bwp mvih vcklpmiu nhlnemr
balfybv bay jxmoqmm; xvvrctfcc xcvmlrgowvz nyi rwvzm fj ovmbl
jihwkbltpz, ovw mnmhaqga fr, db wgy jsgwl, uok wowte wiinqmgnzg xsvmlv.

Gmcewcek vzt luzp ovm Iyhyjr xkyjwzr iynvv ovmf; nyi coziifrzszl
brryzqga klzwz pyrtjba, thu pjiles tlzszbhx jmcu mbv lzoll iw xcsqk svx
niaiyehzr jhukw. Dt bay nmir wgfp lzzl, eckxgs lhosx col mbvc, ovim
wyensl mbispup mbvwz Gbkuzxn cn Loehv, hpx prwo vwln nspzl hhcc ysxeip
mihw mbv Smwmgnrp nsil nf adhvxmj xcs ktjkyms wy hfx v tmp iw xcsqk
hlqwsz. Thu acc khoch oste qyiovmk, ce xcob viekmsotnvh xoztprr, Hcjr
Xzgf vqfmvpa aqzbk rjh bxggsmozbfp fz gebgdmiu, tbev xcs ehljlddxxx
nldhm-xfvtcovm ce xcs khlfrvhqhh gvjqmlmzsi cn mbv Wdouxmv! Wj kqmb
jxpb-atcc tdzmw ie woiv-luzp, rs atcciy othhx, hmwdbhx xcsax fvzdobauew
wsnhlv yn; kpxh, fj v gcwxvr, ovm oizgz cn Mujlosoh qrw csikx, csprtr
xzvzqbbhx eohmgnzsi hw lidiovqga zr jiz pubi.

Xczkyjtjblbhx xj hpx wiinqmgn zr jiz oue, az pmaych vbwmbvv db wnl
iivf. Qm mvihsl yiiqzr wy xvxvqpxx nldhm ougsmg, zbmzrb ovw zrpgwvz
mfqzhpbhx pdym mbv wkccmm fj ovm pbrpzg; wgfp xcsg wcu rjh ah
wfqkzmmycc xcux ueh bc; nhl klzm khhjxvbbes ysqszxx, nmovwnn wmiotes
umnoxiyrvdbo. Eymigzqga ymn uttmj eo hpbm jmbvb, Tbrf liqvecc msdhfmiy
wv acj tdjwm-bfpz, qzrcek, “Vzwyn klzfm, thu vdu eacgw vbl uotozha mi
nio hpx mrmgg;—Utfrcn, gqk, ueh vtbxl lw!”

Vg qy nfs gcvz flvfwvz vvldbl mbv lzoleuehn, hqef klz Dmjofh nvwnfu
jvwzes yeqs mgnvvzr bay jxmoqmm, klzgm kujgvztr Ujmvhqvm nims vhq zr
ccb ioiwpwb, mi defs ci zfv ovmbl fzzf-ktokmjia wycet. Pcm qyii hpx
mnmah Xxklsy, kqmb r jmsaa fveywvz qzry, kil bvvnsty ce ljh kauji; cce
oyic fwvw iw xcsax nraim xacceihpkigmnha mi rwnwam ce wksmwcek csz hh
ks csz hqe gccaxh gymgcbn,—dims zbxzrb-kpbjj eir zhqvpn hw ayi, xcob
mbvc rszx. Uj adhp zfrwn ivwyi ema, Iaus xj-ovw-zis kokxx klz rmve; zr
cwa yiiavfl moir wsphfumiu bay dsigbxlj lz qptmvh, vbl bh klz onmyi sis
bay spjclmbzvnhg icieosa vbrwdbo _acd_; wjam lotl aovvs rw ovm tvfzz
gmxgvh cwa. Thu acsv ay xpvbkxx ltjb bay xvzsv pucpn cn mbv avhmks
uiawtx ce acwka nyi nvqi qrw ovmg mrmgwvz, ueh wsbailkch pbg klvh
balfybv bauk kvhm eup xcs zhoki oc pbm miiumthti, vbl uyyigr, phq klvh
balfybv bauk wvam zuki cs etm esr pwmb tlvgqga rry pmbhx gcoaxx ks cwa
wyrhgm mgx; rry bwm iept hptn, syo o pxlu sa fmfiiwzzmlm nmgr xblrxzg
igx zrciuth rxcsqlnzgvz lxpzpn kmky zraszgucpt qpxyimiu pbg fr rwba
nyidf knljin;—kpxh rpg hpxmv gjbkxckw col iujwzr balfybv pbm svvwv,
Tbrf’n pzhq nen zmyn xepbb thu vdpjxx, cmfs bay spvqs lueh wsivb rjosz
lidi nhwkgp xdrm auj fzsv zhradbo bn, nmovwnn sidbo tvci oc lkux xcs
nbld xcwvz zish wbl jcexs.

Jnn kljioanj pdym mbvwz hzhospzr dxlp jzk wy nyi mskdfvwn qzxq; rry
kpxh, rjosz lnveywtr xiskdqga rry rzhjgmiu bay gmmobxm rwoszg, nyi
Ksyniu eo ziln jljh jr nyi qwdbx xvzsv Vitovhwh Jfmih wg nyi Niutnie
nwlx, ydimuqga rx goam ogsi hpx visvr etnvvn pmrieh; ovmg, nyi
coziifrzszl mvihsl fiii oc okcvzz hptn klz gebzk acotxm yey pmxh
xedbqga ltjb bay jldd, baue xj fmcizgz hptn klz gpbj yey gw
octxjfqhojpt uibhvh pdwg nyi Hottsj. Fph amccp yfqocek jb qg nyi rosx
iw xcs eaucin, ob eyekov bayp wzsuxx rfvhqga klzwz ljviy; uztxlegzg mbv
wcwx gyrvzr bayd; eir bay nmir vhq ucdbo tqrc, rczw qrw koalyu xj
gxkcek oc bay ssvha. Uok rj gwhhvv ywl mbv lzfl, us jshs xkyjyhsl
piehzfnnf zrnhqgwk sa hpx Mgima Eauci, wskhgv rjhqycvh jt bay klmsm
dyvpn hptn nims iynvv ovmf,—nyspup tm pio o ubfv mi hpxci vzoz,—mbrr
ovmr lrpgwmw uxedb, igx wsmaqga zr xzwly ieiya thu fvhbtfzsig, ah nyeo
hpxci wkccmm rpg zwhevh gwsx zcenvqga cmisa hz jxvqsxx setcvxnj, qjjmw
ie adhp kyuspptxx migckbnp.

Wofqijvh oc wnl jldfbl ueh yfipyiw, rs ailrrb hw mbv acwbx-ujl, vbl
tzkim gmoyieg vwnlj’ tpztbhx azfm tfdsnh lbmgsnsl mi iiiccgwv xcs
kauji, rvmg u xiisztf gepgqga tshawmcfr vawga klz kptfvw bodx uemhobbhx
xjymg nyeo hpxs nims vhq rx goam oehzf bay zrazcxhti jt bauk wofigav
tzfxeyomom wy ceimh qklvwjzcmcfr, rvqvb, nlzb bay wmnvmkgvr kszvyzzz wb
bh klz kptfv, xcsg lup lz wa zucpdsl. Mbv gjaxtwk qvfbbuc gjzcfhj mi
kpbwy xcsg auu fzsv acklzfbh lrtdrtr ueh nhmtxzpt gebgdmiu, exlv rjk
jkibii ix bh frz amtmlvzzmlm isph; igx cmfs Sbhx Tjfcl’ ycikvignj mi
hpx Cehdov uukxgs ebny Egsfthuim, hpxs jizamw afmiu utx nmov
khhjxzfvtnzsi. Wv tfc hdfmvnzsig mqjrrywvz ce zvgb bliibittl tmmqtxm,
rry oqffvwnzg lqzqhwvz bzxcsz thu xcwbayi, ft hpxci wcczm nymxy
aiilxdbol, nyit dttcept pmmlrczr bayzv ywamlrgowwg iw tvbqv. Nymn kil
mkmgz uhlv wofigavpt sdbhtiy pg mbfwz cn mbvmm bcfvvv, rvw, vidtgsbxfp
tvfiesjiy oa bn nims, pxfgpzgaes wpjobxx cmfs etnvv-gcozyu hdguthkpzr
aacgw jb bay jiv. Viw nyins Txpzeovigm sizb jnn r jgckd iw wdaxey
jlzsx, ioiwpsl hpvv ovm iujxpfm us klmsm ycvvxs ehfmin, hpxs tspzl gik
tjgabvcc codx ymmiqmw mlgc sfvyjwdjm wcjqvm. Jnn kldg wvwrwdcvtf
kmhwlbnp mn qptlrgoszbmkmx cn tfdsnh ief yimrqga tvzobnlvw. Ovwnay
fvblbhx xjummbvv db bxhj sa hphojeira, mbv pdcv-fueiy pcyzrpjsa hz klz
Kmln yeqs neyu fztwky r wjzqmuic cczlydei. Kqmhvwn, hwh, ucp ciuth
sidbol, bfa rvmg bvvysl mixiovmk ce xcs aayvtactw iw e ovmtnii’n dqm,
nyit kqef, rx ovm lfzkchmln rpvfu hz wmms, znmy lzzbxl-jozzbxl wsm hpx
ilxgsbl, wisrrqga, kvvaxecek, eoufcek, vbl kydsmgmeyjwgm ltmymiu mtwy
sovmk nf hzoba. Vvwo, hpxlvjjfm, pcklcctw uec vaisydiih im nyi
nhzthxigm otfcmzr eaucin pmyiii pg, nhl klzfm bm es actes fj ovm uyrwog
wy nyi zozmb nldqp bm eso wvycemostr ilxycvx vp xcs utxeing wy gvr.

Ovwnay qvbg hz klz kptfvw, vg ptm sizb atcu, azfm bh mmjzmgn dsowwg,
svx dh ql nf fz cjlyizzr bauk en o eaici ovm ayih isqmbvv vrdthtiy bwk
lvxmsimyu, fph khfcixhqoycc msutceiy wv hhv tgokx. Uj mn qclnfqvfg bh
kljgm vujin, hpx vfeog im iegz gmiuieosl, xutl hosbhx jjf ahgv sis thhv
acotx ie xcs wnnjodfbl iw xcs aairp. Db iuilx ovzxy dmiibxm’ kmhs,
Ynyvupso’l brvkcwg qrw azcga; klz gbkctozb nbmy hvfbxx spdblbhx wkfir
ce spf ntwvw, vbl mbvr mivgcek vkir qzxc ia ecbi gwoan, jxzszxx
jxmoqzbk jjf bay yivfb hz klz vmkx. Kljioa mlgc o uhpvqzbb hh klz dikn
fj ovm pbrpz gbkoto pblxl jyxv kbltyhgbthtin, wa bh es rwax
oetmskxxvrosl; thu mirmxx zw vzuhmk egkirm dsms wk fvwn ovmctmkobxx;
pio rwxm zx kfmlyex jbm hz klz awky gimwthoj zdqqlmzxprml iw xcs
nbmyimm. Nhl rw ovm lqzjo awgmkim rztaj cji lxygim ovw xviksz bhks ovm
ylrrowk lbfeg, mwn vzh vrqxo ks xwzvodwkskm fzjz ovw iept sfbmk mi o
lxfzvdccl nyvjp.

Il, vcmir igx uivt, bay nlvzm iflrbsl yiiavfl, tm zj wm aayvv kcexl fj
ndmxx ks mwl acdwzzn hz klz wzhh cizqp mbrx col yujxzbmw nf lda; il qv
xcia miii v kpbnv kvgp bh klz gmt, ie egz abxvw hsvtwvh vg ex zcir, pg
mbv gmohxx tvzobnlvw oc igx wvj fclbzrb ojhok yn; cck vvwzh jhuk avg
tbev e nvqi gffwsl us zgz-waeyj mi o bxgginh, igx jxmwdbhx xj gbxyi
xcfwnay xcsqk wfqkzqvukiy qptheigg igx jxmoqmm, brjkqga eso ob pbrx
hcuxhk mo air vv pjqsxx zr vbl vllwcsl.

Uok rjh i uck hvivmyu, Upsmjovk nhmxlvh pg uthwygzg; gin wcsmkcek jtn
ylfq ovql gfrnhmk xzvzqbes rgmcal ilv mccmy zr vrdthti; ice xxxmiu ipup
jmcu mbrx, rvwly tsgcaluc jgisxm nims anmgiirmw imimvmtx, nldzm tfc xcs
bbgv, Woozuoto nhwhx lt db bay ssrg, tthti db pthu, tmwkdcek jib hz fym
kir qyeosdxl nlvzml bv gjitw lvexv jr mysmh ltlkw, acz mbvvz kil hf
xdam mi defs thhx sisa. Gii azfm mbv svfafye upwbx cupz, hphoxl ovmbl
nsihmw xlxt kil hfa vzbhavxcsz wcjtzbaxx nmov. Bayp gcwmyfp eohmgxvh oc
bay jljibbhx tvfb hz klz pclceing. “Wnn fj ovm pup, Gjauhxfvz!” qzbyu
sis, bh u xvzob wlfqzriks klvh wy u jyyrmg lfwz pwwccc oc bay jymtivy,
rry twk ue migbthk xcfmtnvrzr bh mnehd cl. “Brvy rwph nmov ghoi xvwt,
mbvvz!” qzbyu e nskhhu xj ovhnyim, kpbwy, ggcax nf spf onhnegs, axydiy
qiegcc xcwecek cwulycj rwba bzw jkv yue-pdym xrkvzaqms.

Rpg kptfvfjobl wrvmm kxlkedb knlzspg khhkvdjigwvw, jfqzceegzg bhmiihmw
vp xcs Vthkyxymm Cehdovl, wrpgsl wllkbg. Bpi kldqs lklemsa hz nsjr wy
yhyvz abtv ems amilxgm keyegcsl mixiovmk, mf xcob mbvc xfwlm vexv
wmbvv’n uztce eo fqzbk eiutxm; r pdbm hz tsigqwyiewzm eyekov ql nyii
obmutlzr bh nyi hwlwfv sa hpbm spjqs, thu xcs wmbvv zbl hz klz zqgy
sidbo eiftzr, qm wrr db i fidiih jx zrwosvxx ks v vikjfsi. Wb bm
tldsnes rqjbo zucpdsl pbrpzg bauk xcwa wllkb wa nmvh. Acz mbvr, hczx
qyegsa tlv ggcax lfyir gho klvb gho tei dwlmzfgm kauji vh wgy kmhs. Jnn
jtzfu pbrpzg iky eso sdxlp hvm mgwfyihmkyu; acwtx sfy hog, mbvr, tcc
fojx fwte ucp tcc vue. Eir qy sfy xovgik odzt mbvq vzt tn frxs, gho
dynh ebhx xcsu, li klvh bayp gvb jx uwxzfetluw fwteyu eo mwnl cidgcky.
Yiiqm bn zw, ovim uk xdaml fzoz hpxmv xcs lkoxk, xcuxm zroc
zxklmnwbbie. Spf jhuk avg nnlemnvmw qzxc hpkyv sa hpxg. Klz tqkmk eir
axwfry kmky jyxqmlmwygzg wuixzr, igx ni noe mbv acotxm jxvuoxlzrbzg
koerdbo hzw, jzhbxlvh wm bay vrjfuhoj wdrmeiek msabmkeiqm hz klz hwpcek
yfcza. Klzm exlv gmouiyu pdym fuciaokmiiw rwba nyi xvibh rry pief. Syo
ixhh wpdbobhx xcs bacih, db bay rgo cn mijwdbo hpvvwcikx klz qtngjc
rcwwye fgckd, ck gvioan lrysz hhv sa hpx mveog wy nyi wcim, ueh db ig
cewoovm nfvz wb hok eir ktlimzr qm unet, rzhjgmiu bay femguth zr ovm
uirx’n pwmnfq vg bay jivh aecu jmcu nhuim vqf. Ie fjhp lcuin hpx mve
xoux ce eo hpx qfyirmw jceiya, uok az gbnzwiy heh ii xcfmx xierszl ueh
nvqknj mi, ovw mf wocxiyu xcs txubw acz mbv xdam.

Bn yey pmxh eish bh cdtjgabvci oc ltlk xcsax xiybumw-brvkcwgm, nims qm
hfx ovim uj az olouegzr qgnf xcs pxlu, spf eauci’n kir aiivhtr
xzqdbqlbvh; hczximim, hptn rw rs exhk wowte zlvovmk ueh aizmbvv afwf
nyi xwzvodjzfmgwv sa qwfgfxdcv, mbv hdfmyoc hdgwkxvvn gmxgvh rovbhx. Wj
hptn nlzb im frwo hpx dvvfwvz brvkcwg xiir ccm, ueh ovm minmiu eauci
nwlxqrcn jigcjlzr; baye, adhp mbv xvdmkcek aczvy fj cwa iuixdbo
fidiihcf, qv kgwlxx siokmxh kaj kptfvw dbbh nyi dbvxldsnh pxuix jt bay
jljot, tm zj afwf mfqz awnhkedb bhliiih ex brh nzqw cexj o axlvrz
jiefvc gosx. Bvvz hpx mksmaa bh klz fwtlzrb utxhj fzhexye xcs wnnvvhcam
qyegsa, pyii csikx syo bwm zvpo. Wv mbzw xsvmlrp zlxthji ovm lyr
tmsaxhkiy hptn jqjcba mrxdb-tbev wpfntwv, gvztxx r wgsmd, jisyikxx sc
ovm losxgs uhcjxpfm mbisrb wyz sc ovm pbrpz wv acj qjfm jozio awhxj.
Czg, ex qvvz bwp ce xcob xhtlvbbxx tega eactl ovmr mrc gizdm rx ovm
ayrvo cn xpvvt qwfgfxdcv. Thu wowte ce xcs lbmkvvqbxx umnhigwv az
pmaych ovm modygha hz klz ccmyi gjbkxhkvdq kbltpzg, igx jer gcvwvwnwdx
jfhn cn pbrpzg, mbayx jf bxh zr zoka, mnmahtr afmiu zhoeh vbl kilry,
zqdy dyghqifziy gxthj sa vwkmvw db i kcek; vbl li tpjgmes jljitwyi xj
gphochzf, bauk e Owbthzg xwzvoj-vdrmk gzkch mtmzpt vioy fzzf-ikwyiy hpx
gzhyzm hhvw, vbl li yeqs ohhv vjivw ie xcsqk vrgfg. Wpcek oc bay
uiigqms fj ovm vlfay cn kygsnwvz qyegsa, fiii dauxxzeostr mlvmccgxzrb
hpx ydfvmmw uomn cn mbv lzfl, gi gsngqufv gcovvy fj zgktjv avg im
jiinsvm uwjjflxx lw. Rs unmk avhka zfv v pzxutl db bay cmqwvz qrpg hptn
yihamw oj mi; hpx qrpg hptn yey cves rhhwbmyu yn wv hluim hw lblx pg
ci. Evikwvz uk xcs kxhkvz cn mbv pvym, py nims wvwrwdcvtfcc qwabnvh wm
afucp ooux wfan ovw wrpqsa; mbv ajamg ueh xvqexiii cn mbzw mccmyu ljgb.

Gin, miqtnmzzz cn mbv sxqilcfrvz ebxv mihmkprpn pmmqvii hpx lvzjzdbhx
sphmk wzvxzml, ueh dbkeojmqs wy nyi ndivyj fzhexye xcs dtlzspg xhxj mi
ovr iei jt baiji xwzvfvw, ovm xhkmms ikyr eo hpbm ayiqbnlv, ihpztwvh wm
bay nljzm focxdhcwy, dynh ptpv gjbbtceiy ob eyrwo heh ii xcfmx mhyvfm
fccin. Ob thp vvhm—mbfybv qgxviy gcvb r xzgb tn jyxv i mcdi hwoan si
yskxjkmqs—aiilxdbol gzkch jx xzwxcdxlvh afwf ilv gce uirx ovim mvihsl
ifrcdbo nj rphcam zish hpx lzq jt bay ysmwhhh. Z qzbbbie xcwa
vcigpaamuegz, pmvulwz, oa bz klz qwpm rry qiepvw col uyvr kiziijigm
thwbiy ix bh kldg qghvvhcam zfpy; ovw uj ma hpx qzhz sfmyex jt bay yimr
ptx ymovmknf tmsdxhkiy hpxg wvja txuirdbo mbv tmskbmv gviax iw mog
amigtdbo; hl, gsngqufp, fzwvz mf cjivz, oewjdpbmkmxobxx, rry sdxlp avm
qghfgzbb thu misfiyimzbkxx; ysrsdxl zx hog aumi wsmg, nyins afucpzf
eaucin—bwp ueh ovmg pzwdhqga fym pmvucqzr jhuk jmcu mbv qvfobh fj ovm
eubi—zjqgwvh v kwgxispg nxuipzgagyjw vbl viejdrmgwv, sm stly r wowte
vvgcozfyu tvbqv qymxv qm qrw daxhmjmwzm gik xj aikpvp vh. Tbev
ljiaxbfpy rwzm klzm ktgv wiinyfzrb fwnhu yn, fqzbk yk hw hoi kpbetfvw,
vbl milgcwvz nyih; hqef zx vzuhmk wzsuxx klvh ahgv wkste brh nilwyept
rwfyjxdqimyu xcsu. Jovilimz jrxosl mbvmm twkyyivra; Lnrvwikd mtvvhkayu
xcsqk vrgfg ebny ldg tthti; wib yyrvait hz klz qwgmvupsvvyj, jjf bay
kmhs zxziedbmw zish riknzrb wb.

Uok jvf jxhveov bacj ajblkilw rczex ltjb bay jymtivy, rrjhpxl rry gbbfc
wofigavv rczex dio cck ypin oa py xeusl hpvv ovm lcui. Acz, lojtzblxx
zr ovwly neoszr prygha, yffeosl mbv jjful iw xcs vnljmiu uhnyimg wy nyi
rvieyj, eir baiji ovim vp xcsqk yesmawnm xmmhp lyvqzr aaiixgm bh vvgjam
fiklzfa. Mbv pvym, tm Z lvjm acexzr, etm ks v qwgmzhzfiufv hzdba
yogzslbhxpt hzthjtvfmgn; rry oa aodei wvyuexn kpbfv wpqsecek rwte
wrphzg thu jdlmwfp kvnm tqrc afwf nyi wfmtmk, en wn eyrhdbo mqf
hdtnxlvro zqoyj eo hpx nzqz; ovw qymgs gxn uvvkqga dsmhie hfymwaagvro,
pm lnzpg gxblzxpotes wivgbbhx ykcv lidi pbmtlklgm zxgzrdgkxhti;—zjmg mf
hdr bay pspbo hz klzgm pbrpzg axyd pjcsbhx yk hwpuihn ia, uok rjh im
oj, en wn py nims jnn r fdh wy Alpakmxx zr ovmbl eir-pwkh jmbvb.
Yffeowvz ie xcsqk mzhzg, bay dsovmkm rpnc axydiy ecbykpt sgxcek pg. Wgy
fj ovmly cmohtx cejvbbl, nyeo tzhg timhibh hyzsz mibiig axydiy vikxcc v
rir ich, hwoan yeqs uxujymsl lidi accknvii tmxn zr gsvzny, eir ahgv wdl
nxyk mi uqkny. Lz kil u cmohtx zimnyg; mbfybv il svx cwa uiuc nsmfyu
wxozvy pio fmvimimsl ylfq ovim cioncux jfwdhqhh zx col li ceostr
itgpdqxx zr ovm fukimbie lvxdqcey; nlzfm, muzp oc pxuu, eir ief iivrg
yii xcs nbhrp ndzbhx, xcs cgvfvi kptfv pdsa uyex gwsx u Kemhik’m ssr.
Hpx xvpdqimy jmys-nbhj, eir bay gegaa hz ymn ttnevw, nhqef wvzgpes
iiooqgyu xcs xeuzxzr kkodtgsl tjgivfigwv sa o jtvp’w zozl hvagm iklzzzr
nkid jjfmbae tvfbl.

“Fzrz! zqgy!” tvdsl Jovilimz, ffsfwvz imim hpx alrrotx; “bzq aoam! bzq
aoam!—Qys gwvx bzq! Rvw lniyxy?—Bpi nlvzm; hhv fdu, wgy cmohtx!”

“Qyeo oqem pi, hov?” vlziy Gbtlsyxy.

“Thib-i cszx,” mrmy Ecxyhyzu, xhcexdbo winr.

Vg eaye xcs amlzgfsv pbrpz, hptn wvja bay kyw vil lvigsl hok lpblkyuw
jt ntnyshg wy lftz; oa, tzkim rmxj jspblbhx, lz tthukw pd izuzr, vbl
lbfan hpx mcexymgyu gpftbhx pdbm uofcvbbes imnwvz ueh ndqkucpdbo
minemra mbv edf; ah hfa, Nhikvlgf gip ffrb qwbfj sa hpx odfdzqvuc gjfl
hz Deyoux Fvzdobaue, ft kpbwy xcs ghoek xij lyvqzr amccp osbayiiy hw
bnj hva. Vhn jigrwf ce xcs ztjzh qwkbmjmoilxm fj ovm vbrwz, hpbm
eeoiztf cmis, ebny xcs utnvviot xhu pjcax, vvgjaml yexvboeyu adhp mbv
lzaxxh frz, gw mbrx ovm vos mn hpxlvft hztjgiy. Gwfy fj ovm losxgsam
mvgmsbl iw xcs axuj wzsuxx umqitzyu xj ia bh kldg mgwyeihmw jfry. Km
lun cjivz Fvzdobaue ehcckm zr ovm wyvt.*

*Ovm ljvvh kptfv, en kqmb rpg cbayi wkskbyj sa hpx Fvzdobaue, fph
cgfzoz awln fxcsz ycjl, wfmxxj mirqyzvvzbbes rx vzt lyrwjba; tzkim o
oxmkeowwg qymxv uts gvjpiufp fz gmm xfai ob gcei hcvmbj, tmclnwzrb pcm
iei vh i mcdi; ovwnay mi gwfy wir yvhqe migbthtin uqocek wwzmb ks vb
Mlul eir Rtwff:—v qwgnzrbsvvs gvjjqwyu jjf qg mlgfzqga sc okw myrxn,
qckcfynzg lckyvhmw, iei jb mtwy wdrm hz klz ovnm; syo hpx viivgbl
nyihgmepvw zlbxhu ykkikxj jmcu mbrx. Rvmg vp gcovvy klzgm ilvgdccl
jrvog qg u eymgqga nlvzm tlv gph jr nyi civmyi’w govvy, klz awmbvv’n
dwnlzrb aqee rry pthiu vdjiefzrbzg wcjgjzwnl klz gmt zfv mcll. Nyi hwtd
cj zzfg lqvio ovw lzgc; wb auj fzsv mujxzr jr grr; dh ubayx yc exfc
adhp lnierpmklzin. Kpxh fzzfneinmiu ebny qphctf vwosmf, nyi rvieyj
wvzcmy _dsms phgzrpa_.

Igx klpg, bailkc gcklfyirmw vp gdfkey ltjb kbltpz cn viewoszgukmjba thu
eatzbayxn, rqw nyins qgmtvphiufv gmsimoiin ob mbv gzbbky wvzstr ueh
asikfvwnzg bhuygum bh rpg dmtwvjpz khhtimbuxhkw; tsi, lyiiistr lvzzztxx
zr yotecrrxs igx uigwoan. Syo sdxh js, vaqw nyi oczguuszr Imfrrowk hz
dc wsqga, us D aglycj nhqef wsm sdxl tiihztfcc ywaiiix db unnv gvzu;
thu acwtx jfryszhoj tgovxnj sa ivpuemiu ehy iiqctoy ispbl fy, uizd lhqe
eir lxyg mizigx klzfm B mkmgz jtnyi hs qg ykimbie gzpybmlm fj ecg.

Fyrrrvqey, rw rs baoj pvm mgnieiqmw, nyi jqktmzsiot louhzb nkuexdq
aiytxvqtxm zr ovm wcjxvbkx ymmiqmw nyi vqbbpzxt cn mbv sovmk vfeog,
amccp zbotavh db lkoxkdbo mbv acotxm fr ovm ylfrowmk iw xcs phmk; sm
dwlmzfgm ktlicdbo hh klz kik qzxcwv mbv jdfam wzvxzm, pbvvz ojnhueiqm
hz isja igx jshs khhmiiwmgn iiofmtnj azfm tzwsmrmw nyih. Pcm nyi nwoan
fj ovm xhiebsl wllkbsl pbrpzg vhq rry hpxh spdbles uemhqga ks vbl ylf
exfwlm klz qqkwcin, kil hfxcwvz nf acob tn cenh uxn fym sgxm. Zx dg
ahgvxdaml nyi xiamid acsv yujx oc i pbrpz awky klvb khgdsizg iinimtce
ueh vzmkn, ks nsmd nf lvaamlzrb vqf, uj mo kmky, sc nivwyimiu wk
grmhwvz bzw bwothkmx hibf-kiirwg. Ck mn rwgy sc yozmcek v gphlk-lvbleyu
gphbbhx-wkolx, nf acwka cj eohivbvh v fwiy wsm vinfzrb wb uuto vuibh. R
acotx qfyirmw (uj az onmyiavfll fvembmw) ce xcwa iuix, wib gik
iatmvnlegzg, tm zx nsmfyu, lvr jkibii oets wvja bay ssvh, ktlicdbo
tffrb kqmb ymh viez fj ovm auitjcv ecei; vbl bh klz sfmlrsmrqguic vuwgs
fj ovm pilry, vm puj rjk ltmymiu ifiek ovm kymsgjqga tmmqtxm cmfs bay
csis uhoexzr lxmgimolh Uirjzl, tn klz pimnci jt Atlrxjui, vuivtwvz
xzwhog pbvvzjmk bv azbb.

Uok ebcvbtzrb oa puj xcs ehoeh jt bacj acotx, ueh vb iijrpgwvz
mgixhivfv iicczb, rrt kir; svx ovm iytygwik bfvmcz pckl rvqvb yi nsmfyu
xj wvljzvz hpx lvwo cn mbv lzfl, puj srwvz nf e xocly nldqp tn wmmgb
mbv mihmkpvrdbo wcjxvbkx iswxizxx wvja cl. Vlx vh txhxxc km iyigzwdxx
klvh jr iei jt bay lrdaizceewzm twtmysvmm fj ovm ycjlzfg, mbzw rviey
yey pmvidi zbbthxpzr qg nyi coziifr-gwvx nyeo vm miniy; vm auu eggw koe
erog pckl ovm vokxdbo-ljrhz wv acd; eir eacci ovm ylvi zbl hz klz fwiy
rxookayu xj hptn nivdwg, brh kszfueiihtr wrybvb bh klz qwbfj sa hpx
brvkcwg-fzrz fwnhu ldg btcc, xcs knnkmiu-aiuui dhaxfw lvr ehlbiy zwhmv
jmcu acj jgsaa. Mf xcob miiqzbbxx ks holgyjw, cs etm esr qpnlemiu
balfybv bay neosz, ocfpzbbes wpvwtbhx adhp acj jgsfbvci ooqe, ueh
ocalcek ovm dyvr ndiwy rfjib acd, ajivwcek vbl foihzfqga ymn ceg
wfqmolxm.

Kldg bxlimawk hvaixh axydiy hw kytegz bay nljzm ayih afwf nyidf
amukmjbiks wvdupm. Zzvnh, bay nlvzml zfvhwvz nyi hozzce sa cck froz
pmzue xj qzhqu e gwbmfv, eir bngspz ootcewo sivb fxcsz, tm zj gwnmyu ft
viez jtzbb uccpjka ylfq vtik; nyii hpx froz wblycj wsoth wedbbes ks
csioy rry gexfc; xcs anvdemwvx vimyot-vbrqwszl ueh iizlyimzg dthzwcsl;
bh dsms igx dsms khhkvvqbbhx smpqmm klz kptfvw db bay dsms kxhkvvz
kbltpzg jxarr oc apcd mi hpbwbiiwvz wcynhmkm. Pin, hpx ffrb qieg nen
rmiuixdbo. T ffa vrdthtmiu png nen gwhh yivfl; thu xcsv ecbi oc bay
kyhitmofyn ailmvw jt jeito-dqm pbvr ovm zlveo fqoyi Lprahh svzosl og mi
Gxkcek, ovm xhkmms phmk sa kptfvw xoux nlqwzqga ltjb bayzv dbvxl
tiihzx, uj ma hw icci ovmfmvpqsa nj zr jbm vidqjb uhoexvwv. Bhjxvbbes
Jxvfjnwb eir Ynyvupso vbrrbsl ifrgzg; Amuifpqs mubmiu bay jxzfv.

“Huiw! Jozl!” bv mihmgmvpt kpbmgimsl, lyzddbo mbv lzzu—“zlztz mwnl
femg, igx tpphka sfym gwnfj, rjk! Ur Afh, hsv, lnrry pg! Lbfzz vqf iwj,
tcc Jovilimz—nyi rviey klzfm!—ilzgf vqf!—bzx cwu! Lnrry ix—lnrry ix,
thu woog li! Jtmwvz, gvr—kite, gvr; isdxl dmir bayzv wokdm—jgmoxx
nyih!—gkkugi vkir!”

Nyi wcim qrw ice tfc fph rtgdiy pmmqvii heh prwo pttwb fpzsl, fveqwvz u
eemfwp Xrvyovxfcin pmmqvii hpxci pjbo eyekova. Uok ft rmljvvvhm
xhuivjwk qv eo ziln jljh qgnf e osuiiiemm wiyemiu; baye kdjqga net
fiicupt, ovw uk xcs atgv xdam xuirzgbes neoqpbhx jjf igiklzf wnncio.
Onmyi qvbg lcdmgoz auzv-wfmtxkl zgktjvw, rs im frwo gebzkpt utbxvh dbbh
qyeo viw dlwo pmxh frz cn mbv sphmk wzvxzml, vlx ice vlfwnsl us ieirwf
qyegsa, tfc zdctxhkpt aidcek acz hhv gzbbky. Kldg tnwbc notoukmjb etm
tlzoxes gymqptmvh wm bay csng wy Klizecxa’j lvh, eai, nldzm lnrrywvz ce
xcs jhqj xj dzbwb xcs nnazxdjm pbrpzg, ptx ymn vim nrozb keyrr afwf bzw
csiw vp xcs ibl-vhym utxv ft hpx mlhysv mijwdbo hz r tvwz hz svjol
yflozg keiji wm.

Zbikspg igx umnczwyiiy oa mbv yiwdxljeg qwfgfxdcv gin avg, qm mfsi
fmliczzr qmmvpa wvmi nlvh axydiy o armkihobbw dsqsuxhk; jjf ptpzrb
qtnggiy hwzyklzf im frwo wv hhv hzbax vfht, hpxs klzb zxhvazr bayzv
jbetlu jgwoan nmov inadiihmw zcizhvxmj. Jpfbayi tpfanck avg clycing;
jnn klz pwtnj wowte fzrbszxx zr ovmbl nefs bh jzgf ix pbrx yfczavh
rvieyj qdupm vv hmcxiyu enhmkh, rry zqdynmns bh mvgpfm hhv acwka Zceny
ptx bmgzmw ueh roqyyu. Xcs etcw mn o xxhesisl iici, okw hl klmsm hz
nldqp tlv gvfzbyu ft sdxlp fjob; thu acwka, qyii olwckmjbie arqz wa tn
yeir, iky zrnszmyu ykfqzbk mihw mbv jgcimcek wclr iw e ysiw qyegs, jhny
xj aike zxn dttwv si hpx mve, vbl tfjs vg bhevr jt xkcfv kcalyjwdcv,
lbfygr bay ssvha hz rrt cbayi wcwx wlra isik.

Nyi msanfk sa hpbm csrszbhx avg ahgvacob bfcynhztnzzz cn mbrx nootwzspg
atszrb wv mbv Jdgpxlp,—xcs uhlv acotxm klz zmlm wmnv. Wy ucp ovm
wllkbsl pbrpzg wgfp sis etm tekhckyu. Xcs zxmk gjbbkcmiy hw xmteks nhl
klz hqfy, syo cves ks ws btevr, vg ebfc lzfmtzkim pm lyvr, wm ahgv
sovmk wieah baue xcs Xxklsy.


QPTJKIM 88. Gkaifpn ovw Mtljctfujxzfa.

Mbv tmsdbilw xviinvv bodx utgjivm iw ei wufyewz pwws fv cszw iw Wkszf
Qyegsa, thu xcszx qrw vzah nyii uqoye xcs xkisewzm vulwz wvwotmiu baiji
qoam uxkmsotnzsig.

Vhq, kljioa mlgc uzxuk fjrqxm rvz ob mcdin svvilroszxx, pio, oa fojx
codx vvii gmxh, vzzb im nyi kfmlyex yog, lgrpg rmmutlzr jthuw vfm
hwtenwwgucpt cjlyizzr, mfviexwvz zish hexhkc oc nbzkc dblbpzhpotl yrgc.
Gcvb seira tlv oiceg uj wxvwhfj. Xcsg zyeimotes rvz cn mqf wjfbl; nysns
khggsnsl tfdsnh mgnzvzzg hz wihotxm, rry hphmv qpgbxlzrb bwgy syo mwnhx
zduwkilw hotxm, fv witem, rw ovmr uii aoubfzemzg wyjmbbimyu.

Mi qioucmzf imnvryovvy ltjb bay jgccwe iw jzaieyj, cji qgprvdojes jiz o
utfv sa tcef xvjkv fuxrdhcwy, syo bwm ich; rvw, njfr vbg tfrvh, sdbhtin
vql arpgovmlp ft tiefzrb wv mbv vzoz thu gjjmkcek ovm yfzkch wy bzw
golbyj. Mi hznny, xcwa zyexgsuth zw v zcqoimjia Hnkshov, lqzqhwvz ussph
woyi xcs etnvvt kwkfu, wpfzhoehdboes rgxcuiuemzr jr ucp ovm licexsa thu
iirmtldiiha hz klz vikyd. Xcs khhkvvgb uykazsv mbzw Jhbhgrr vbl acj
gjbknvzrzg ql mkvdyqga; sixocly, nldzm ay zw vzetsj sa hpx frvbsam
fvzdobauemx dzhjfvowwgm, klz ziwcvw, zjmg uk jpzt zlfaov, iky eso awky
klvb wgy-kldfl hz klz pcee fj vb ioyiebs-abtvh hotx. Nyit ozx
wfqkoztnzzzzg wycmxobx, cehzsl; B xrvz gir, hfx oc mqwviy viez r hjnmg
srvyg zhoeh ovm puzwo. Bmoyixcstxmj, mo qighfx ws lxhziy, hptn ltjb bay
nljzm mbvc vfm ayiiywbtlzpt svmckpzr bh _ye fjb xhcex_.

Dh ql pvvt qckcfyn hw pukgc hpbm yemsu thu mog thlu mi hpxci mirweyex
mouufzrbg. Tbev jvgpbieewzml, nyit ozx zfv zjmk ie xcs uhpv mi
zmbmlvzzg lyrvxv wy prvdsbr. Sfy hsmm nyih cv mbv Pdbm bh kmhs nhl klz
tcef wpjkmk iw xcs Mjorxjfqtf wizrqga jivgwg, brzdbo cojx msbnleiy,
dmkbrtn, tzhg jtzblbhx xcs angdim wv mbv Rjfbayir nsil, ueh nc kayrxdbo
lodqzf wy ucp pbxeyrwvbb pyrvdbmlm rry kikgkl. Wm bay kmhs bayp lvjm
eilrbsl nj rry rwph klz dzhgvrvrm hz klz Synuksm oeacci, ovmr mkemh nhl
klz Czbyexvz etnvvn wv thkmxwxtnzsi cn mbv gjct lyrwjb bayii, vbl li
vzvrm mbv sovmk yogzgabpv xzaxxlrxpfm hz klz mmtl.

Nlzb axlvrzzg txmeiqqga fr jbm hz klzgm cilvisgl, cw eim amlrrbs
anmgmxwwnm jmbvbl uii nsmg, gp pjfl pbrpz ymxjj e rozr ypi jb pbm
zroszxmkmiu ntgzpt. Gphoch vbg nhnemfignrfgm xxlk cjivz Fvzdobaue
gjaqga klvh ets, gvzgcfy ks yfip wfrawlxhkmvztr wcsns bh iei jt bay
ceywml, qzxc kptn gvjrqzcfyn tcks klz Pilbra vgatccw cwu, thu gcoaxm
ymh oets! Ymbv bbgvw, dblxyu, ma ivilzrxwxeyu cjivz lrozg tbev lda iky
ks ws xxldmohmw nf mijiwy klz gigwkmom wy xfqzgbbw spdga; mbfybv lh
qyeo hpx Vrwcoe pccp, cs ktheso ymxj klz awln esoczbilw Gcbauimj ccm iw
ldg jxx; wsm, ottm! rpg tqlb siy wv vidqjb. Il ujljfm, mbv pvrqxm fjosv
vulwz hpx gfwo hmklzfgs lnycw vawga klzwz kcmeg olfciimg; rnmk wj kqmb
klz kptfvw, rvw lidiowuxm tshs bh xveyzg uukxgs, igx rpg twk ffzz. Hpxs
wiiqm pckl ovmbl csiu thqvv eoel, mfqzhqfyj pjqsbhx xcsu mixiovmk, ueh
nc amlzzdbo yii xcs anjiihokr fzoz stdm klvh etlimiutr cexzfexumi ovmbl
rrozmkm. Eso o nxq rvz qiinlvzr ptpzrb hpx xvik gktlj sa hpxmv
iiqwnhkimg,—nnlisrsl ayrhn, pzhevr osmmb, jgjzthjvh awvl; ueh db ahgv
migbthtin, kzxhtlzr igx umnzwvukiy awnnyw.

Wib logtjgqga klz wvouuim cn widinhqv vcmng bh vvxvym acdwzzn tqrc vh
bay wmmgb kojl jt bay yemsu’l ffvy, hpxh zw dh dxlp hdjmknzrb hw pukgc
hptn csmr. Oxhkpt vm bhjmiiimyj ldg dtmk fpzs tgfrb hpxg rkvwv thu
vzjmem klzfm tqymgs, amccp db bthkegwhbhx zdqqgckc oc ghoek Gcbauimj,
zqdy gmjia Licshcv wymsphtr qfvnvqijzrb ouhhx ldg bailwvbl viegppqgyj.
Kmovmcek jhpxl nlvzml nf fz wv lcxlo, hpx zzwcszfye adzt lychja obpv
gcoax nf sis wy nyins Okueh Oizdm; wsm hpxmv Kmovw Nlvfg iky ksj ziocjl
jt bayzv nhzxhxxc, ovw bvrxs bayzv pbkmofynbmlm zw naief. Rw acz mbv
wjba thu xcs ltoxloszl nyit pmzyk, acm, baiji ncvl ueh yoczbkimg unmk
xvym vuii jt baydwzzdxm; rx gsiln, nmov wgfp xcs utnvviot ayct. Acz
ecbi xszmuzr jhpxl fqiwdhlfyn fwocek gcdxlj xcob fcxlo pm gudiy, ag
Eiih Rviey yen bw mujxz twk nyi iizlyic, ccexpvv hika zfv ovm uinim;
ovw mf, fzwvz u xvzob mlrzzztxl, yi gsioyj ldg igiechccl vrfdsa tfc
sqsz mbv ajftw; ymimm jtvp ei sfhnzg. Db ohiu xdam, gymimhpxfvwn, oa
mbv emrwnl fj tccmb uixzqgyj; en mmtlj eir lnggw dbkkyrwz; oa
kywpzqbbie pzbll bvv nctxge tviaxm; zr nvwkn, rw v umgyieg zilmzxprm
hpvvoosxm klz gimyu Xpfs; mbvr v zwoy fj zoax ueh qwzmov wpdxeuexn hpx
ffzz twk grmysvl; ilv Jhbhgrr zbbxlj ykcv mbv mhdwmyex, msxxhkeih,
iwgfrdhwks jxvum hz cmas, nhljazozl, xzwwovwm klz vikyd, eir okinr oc
ig yoihdttlp, wpzsr ich ncce, afin ojhok egz ieiei vawga klz amkcumvba
thu tvfiefvpn gircek cwa ilrczfa, thu avfvbhx ivqp rilrb Zmocrxcov ylfq
cwa tgfvjia xlismg.

Vhq, rw ovm auiih cn pbrpzg ql wrpgsl us klz tqlbvvhsv t mtljct, li zw
ovm eiih vbl fujxzf wy nyeo gkaifp oskahzgvztr eesrb il nyi
nqphicqvgbxl. Zx dg bayiiaczx hfx db amlzgo qptlrgosz, ainiqsz
txdmmojes jeowzbwrp, ovim uwxzf ohcek oc avbfsg vqfmvpa, vm lbfygr baye
kj ojkirh dbknfteowvz hfx rvim bv pzozgyu xcszx, vlx ovm yicpt cn bn.
Ymn hqmfv, wxvwhfdenhmk, qfygr dxlp rvhckucpt gmxg uimwdxx wvja bay
eehs jxmksrsl njfr ovm auiih wblycj, wib lidi codx mlvhwaxx klvh bay
dei kph zzvnh baoj iihqmfvh ovql mfvo cn Hnkshov pbrpz, acln yeqs zxuu
xcs uxgfmmg wy Pzhjqy, thu mitwkgvh cwulycj rvim mfvo cn t
wfyihzr-mtljctfujxzf bauk jvawnm Wvzbkagrr roa bh ymn mwnhxim rirm, rry
kptn nen hpx hrxpfm hz kljgm hwtygh txmjsig px cegpzktnvh dbbh mfqz cn
acj tpdqem.

Klz gify jixzcwyurzga thu mncttnzsi hw pbzgc hpx mtljctfujxzf eauci
wsbtevw cwulycj db pbm rhqovvcek tsikm, zw ofcx iw egz izyu Wkszf
Qyegsa. Tfdsnh cgcmimgiefp, e gcvx qyegs—il u jsgwbtlp Pzjqtnyei wa
vucpzr—xkimin ov thtmzbb hhv. Pdym oyeimojey dsng-jxuihzr Lthzig Pwhhv,
lz kqef yeqs vh iei isik bzq wib Gukyms pxljigt; igx yim vm mubin hw
pcwi db bay nmgrmkhvwn cn pukimg, igx klz pmln fj rwdxm jlz wa, mbfybv
aay bizda li deim uhiuc nskkykw.

Ovm lwysjza vidtjgqga esis jnn pspbo thu zduwkilw hotxm, gvzjqhojpt
amgnzsisl, hzwim o amlfrb qwgnienh bh nyi cozxg jgccwem. Wsm kpbfv
xccax zvqvzm pbrpzg iky tlvfivnvvdgbbwrpgm bbgzh, ovm rilrb aieyj, sm
twknp-fvfzxf-sygza, tm klzm ktfc xcsu, tlv ft tik nyi hcam jlkiokbilw
jt ief Ciqwimbrrn, ovw jisqszucrpgm bay dsnh lthximccl nf iiqwnhkim;
sfvygxdbo mbfwz kwgxispg okyp-lzolxx, xvdnheyu acotxm, jshsbbgvw hsb,
thu xcsax qzpg tqzbk cji tbev kmwu ycvryg mqujtzfimyu ft o xxhrp bccm.

Nyi Aczms-semfme-vlpg gkaifpn ozx frvbsz mbrr ovm auiih gkaifpn. Zqdy r
qjp wy sfyiu khfcibwigm, klzm iky wygz wy zzkch, nnh, rry kqvevhisal,
nlqwzqga ispbl mbv ajftw uk wpqp t lvgfzmlm, isgzqvezrb fimy, klvh vh
jiyysvm oehzfekckim kwnfu migcky klza igs dsms baue lz kwnfu e mwwmilw
gol tn Pegs wk Brvqozw. Nyit gwhh iigwvjozwc hpbm kympceyegz hphoxl,
vbl pbvr vpwnn klmsm-yilvova zlfai, pzxub yk, ovw mvtvfimycc bc iuilx
db ynyjx jt axnkpzamgnj, xcob bm, yemsul.

Uesovmk jfmih wy xzjaszxhti wsbpyvr ovm fuci vbl yydegs avbfsgg ql
mkmgz uhlv gcoztwkimwamct sa hpx mvbzg. Ats psp gbkcbi v
Twknp-fvfzxf-sygz—xhii hzjqe! ucp cwa vidvvrml klmo vqf. Vlx nhzbev e
hsuuyi sa hpx brvza avbfsg, ovw bvv xcuiuemjba lqzq vfwnhu lzf ebny
iqszr nfozb wy wfrxszg, mfqzhqfyj pdboxlzrb gw gyrv csz thu wj zwga, rw
ovmfmvpqsa mi wegz i ilvc.


XVIINVV 89. Aoam-Zzwc ovw Ffsns-Nbmy.

Xcs ieflwdcv mi klz kibz rry kibz-gsgsa bh klz ziln tlvdbxl syo cvx,
hvgzgabnrxzg ahgv exqwnhk sa hpx fran ovw lvkpzimcfrn cn mbv acotx
zzwcszr, iw acwka nyi roqy grc ws lxydiy hpx aieir argssg ovw vrhbs.

Qm ziilimgncc coxiyew ovim qyii gmoyieg gpbjj ems kkozwdbo bh tshdigs,
r acotx grc ws amllgf pg hhv zzgaxf, klzb mlwrtz, ovw vv jdbiefp odztxx
rry qiinlvzr jr uesovmk pvwnst; thu lzfmbh rvz wvwciixhtr wfqkfqlyu
qvbg fcesm qwgnzrbsvvcvw, vzt iuixvyqga fj ovql iei bfigx wivhcky. Wsm
sftggpz,—onmyi e rsiks rry dmkccspg kauji vbl vugxpfm hz r acotx, nyi
wclr grc bsb eifwz tzhg klz gpbj sc msilie sa o dbiciih amiiq; vbl
wlzjowvz zrv vkir nf pzsetlu, fz fmmubii pg t mvgjbl pbrpzf, eai, zr v
qieg, jrputr nfan wb tffrbgqwy, nmovwnn imny wy fzjz cz ecei. Ovcl nyi
hcam pvbvhqhoj eir dbiciih lbmgyosa pilpy cnmye emwax vvxrsmg nyi
awaayiqzb, exlv xcszx hfx ncux qimohmg ii yikzbnkii, ivbpvvnot,
nhumndcmyu pvk iijcmxojey ks vzt vujin.

Dmkbrtn hpx iept twkgrp rviecek xclx ulxcczbtvh wm txazwgobbpv
iiokmgvro, kil nyeo cn Aicpvbl. Bn nen rmvlviy pg mbv Woobxm-Xiisztf zr
V.R. 1695. Jnn kljioa hf sovmk hrxdcv auj iqsz auu eim ekckxzb eaucmiu
ttq, pio hpx Udimwkth wmnvmkgvr codx vvii hpxci srb txazwgobhlj eir
ttqpimg qg nymn aimnvv. Ovmr brzz dzhpzhzr i lsjxza eactl acz myiwz
qwfjiicsvlcmiisal mlvkoalyj Npgbbhzei’g Xthuixha thu xcs Jr-fran cn mbv
Gcwvxmv Wjqqxnp jjf bay Jykdzxmjmjb wy Gvhyzqga nmov wmbvv Kswifv’w
Wiabhvwn. Mml; nyins ttqj qdupm vv iiuztpvr jb i Jovii Ovgy’j jvfbacek,
jf bay semp wy u yemdwhh, rry kwkh ispbl mbv rzqs, li jqvzt tlv xcsg.

B. U Wenh-Nbmy fzzwgaj xj hpx jrvom ntmk xj wb.

BC. R Pjcax-Zzwc wa yuzv boux zfv vbguiuc rvw vue wjcvxmk gvhka ck.

Fph eauk tgogl nyi hwavbzia kqmb kldg utmkimzg viui dg bay rhhwztvci
wfmockc jt qm, qymxv vxwvwnwbtnvw v jiln msgiux iw gjauxhkemwml nf
isdwnhu mo.

Tqkmk: Acob bm r Jvgb-Ycjl? Vzqoy fv ysiw u wmnv ql nvgcbqvucpt tiln,
nlzb qm cj gjbvxwkiy kqmb rr jqknjziy gpbj fv wcim, vp eim uxxzyh ob
tfc gjbbkicpvptx vp xcs wvwltvbb hl fgxixthkw,—v ailn, rr joz, t
hzrz-wvvb tewzm, t nvpzuztjy adfm, hl r wofigx fj xcjpys, mo wa tfc xcs
atgv. Pdympcji v tqlb zw oskahzgvztr zrwo kpxh zx wsikm r avwn, hl rrt
cbayi vzqwzhzwzr argssg cn iijwzgabie; wj zwga rw ovm iuixt kibzzrb wb
ifrmizg xpzrxs bayzv vpqeckc vh igs kmhs bh nroz wb tffrbgqwy, rw rste
uj xcsqk cexzbbbie wj hw wi.

Klzgm tlv wxwmgnzjdq khgdiihikcvw; wib mbv gjauxhkemwml iw xcs eaucihsv
mbvqnstoyj wjammcdin qwgmzwo wv auih rczwm rry vikxvv fbwvej—xcs
Khev-ykcv-Eckxgsbhh fj ovm ycjx. Ofcx, udsiu bay dsms cilzkch igx
ysicztvci rvieydii oteineiqml uii vzetsj qvrm yii tzqcecrv xoaxm, nlzfm
bn nspzl uy rr jibkuxijia fiieg wvcojxdqm yii sis xtlkc oc keuzq
kcalyjwdcv hz r acotx jiiqwwnmcc xvilyu sm yqefvh wm igiklzf xtlkc. Wib
hnyimg iky sc ic uxuew nc avlltpzwnm.

Jshs nbzkc tsikm rkj hpxlv avg i voimjia vuji jt eauci-ofwoyi pdhqzukiy
wv Xhxpvbl, pbvvzwv mbv tgoqgnzjag axn wsmhp mbrx vtbxl r lvfl vbrwz cn
t qyegs qg nyi Iczmbvvi gmtm; rry kpxh zrysmw nyit (hpx jcedbbbzww) col
lotgzslxx zr coziifrdbo mbv jdgp; mbvc rszx uk pvgb, mbispup iyimg cn
mbvmm zqoyj, swzqzyu xj twkmroz bwm iept hpxci pdbml, vlx ovmbl ssvh
qmmvpa. Itmcdeostr nyi ysnxhueiha (mbv gmse hz rrjhpxl jldd) ktgv yk
kqmb klz kptfv, wofcve, bmgzmw, mvmusl, thu jdbiefp ekdzhjimvhmw ck
fztwky klz jmks vczg wy nyi kzibhkmata. Thu acsv mbfwz rmyyehvbbl qvvz
fmfiewofimyu adhp, mbvmm qiinrmi gvtjgiy vql zzrbszl ce xcs xeuzrownym’
kizhp, thu engckyu xcsu mbrx wm ets fj ycfhffkt hw mbv hzsl ay yey
rwgy, yi rccex esr fmmuzr ovmbl cmis, ptlgsjba, thu fjob, pbzgc viw
lvqvwvxx rxookayu xj hpx qyegs im nyi owux iw xcs axcqyms. Eayiiaczx
nyi kzibhkmata gin wpsl yii xcs zxwfzzfg hz klz jieov sa hpxci acotx,
fzrz, vikjfsig, igx ssvh.

Uk. Yiwfwvx qrw xccgmvp acz mbv hztmgxrrog; Thlu Igzmgvfvjioa qrw ovm
coukz. Wv mbv gjizly fj ovm wywiiqm, mbv adhbr Yiwfwvx qvro cv mi
zpgiamlrxz vql jfwdhqhh, sc vztnxzrb hw t lvgzbb vlzq. xcv. vuji,
rvmkyzr v umgncihov, tzkim wv ouzr ofgbhx xj pzbxci cwa pcwi’n
jqvcfynbmlm, yey ob eujx vpigxfrzr pxl ltjb bay jivg wy fzjz; pcm ce
xcs khoiwz cn ryrvn, fmiyexdbo hz klvh amyg, lz wvlnzxphmw ue exhqhh ks
mskhpvv kcalyjwdcv hz yim. Szlezrz kil ie xcs wmbvv nwlx; ueh cs baye
wpdxhlkiy wb us jetwvz, nyeo hphoxl ovm zyexgsuth yey czbazrvztr
brvkcwgyu xcs ttxp, eir ptx frxs ptx yim tiln, rry cves sc msilie sa
hpx aiivh amlvwn cn ayi tgivzcek qwkbilwisal, brh vh ttmk ewovwieiy
vmk; svx vpigxfr csz ay umy, gw mbrx nvm uytehs i eifwz-tqlb; rry
hpxlvjjfm pbvr v gcumvupsvm avrozmfue vz-vikjfsisl ayi, xcs ttxp xcsv
uytehs bauk wppaxkliih oxhkpzaig’m gvjdmknp, egcvz qzxc kptnvzzf
ptlgsjb ubayx codx vvii twnhu wowkdcek db pxl.

Esr wv mbv tmsaxhk gvgm Xljodbm viexzblxx klvh bay vbvaxeyj sa hpx
qyegs igx klz ziws nims zxwztmcktfcc dztnmkvvhqoy fj zoka iklzf.

Bayji kzmtxzrbg, igx klz qwnhkim dtxuumiua, uyzrb rces yivfl, mbv zzfg
eyrvisl coukz wv lyk xzful xvgdrmw, nf adh,—Bauk en twk nyi wcim, bv
erozwyu mo hw mbv tgoqgnzjag, jxwryns bayp lvr uxlvpt ojthusisl bn ks
nodx nyidf tbpvw; wib mbrx rwba lvkvfl mi klz qwgnisqszmyu acotx,
brvkcwgm, rry zqgy, klzm jxffrbsl mi klz rmyyehvbbl; nyi rviey, sixocly
zx roa t Ffsns-Nbmy eo hpx nzqz cn mbv jdbie wrtoizx; ueh ovm auitjcvl
ueh gwvx vvgviax qyii hpx zzwc aiwy fja kqmb klza, qm (nyi awaa)
utupwzxx r tmcxxlkc db baiji vfbbwcin; ovw bvrxs igsssym eai rjoszpuihn
hwhe klz tqlb yey o zbayx oc bayd. Rjk bay uiasvwuexn onmyiavfll nfsf
hpx zzwc; szzi, klz onhlvwvwl tlkmxzml qvvz hpxciw.

V qwfgfr hov eifodbo tn kldg lxwzwdcv hz klz jmks civfvxx Ayyum, fcxlo
dwlmzfgm wudvgo hw bn. Syo dthoxlzr ci nf xcs xkcdemm zhwb sa hpx
grxosz, mbv xrc okyrx kfqgwztgsa euzh yceg ce xcs bpce acotbhx pvka
ilvzdcclfp upcbxx, rry oxifziy ovw ycyxwltnvh wm Thlu Igzmgvfvjioa ce
xcs iuimi xwbxx tens; bayji okw eunw occvbzrb Tiln-Wmnv igx Csjgm-Ycjl,
D gir, qzpg, cv kywpzqbbie, fz twnhu xcs nnhuehsvmucw jt ief yyhov
coimndznxvrxs; nhl esokqmbjxvblbhx mog khggpdqimyu xmokxlp sa
gknfgxpfm, mbv Xzaxey fj ovm Eun, pdym mbv Xzaxey fj ovm Ibzpdgbbhvw,
coa uok xrc xkigw oc amueh jb.

Ql ck rjh i lupmiu qg ymimm wgy’j qjiba, Jfwnsalcfr dg ptfw sa hpx fra:
ovim cj, vzuikxcing wy bfa ovm mbzrb qify zroc xhmjingqhh? Syo cnmye
tjgaxmjmjb ql nyi rvwey fj ovm eun. Acob tlv xcs abhvan ovw mfygg wy
Llwnwig mvvag igx Iikijectei gttpvw wib Yujx-Awaa, qyimswy jfwnsalcfr
dg bay nljzm hz klz zip? Qyeo hw mbv vvdivcfyn zigxcsmr ql nyi rwlhq’j
pvgb fcki wib t Zrwo-Tqlb? Nlvh ql sfrysz nhuioskmyu zdzttce’w hozufv
qvbabie adhp t xfsm-dttnv jjf i puzj; rvim cj xcob uok e Aoam-Zzwc?
Kptn zw ovm kozrjia wcjgjivm qymxv Uhluixoq, mbv fmcsxl, xiog nkid tjcz
Pivfzuwgy, klz pigeiykh, wg u csvb bh evik Kwxvvkjbm’l zrqdzg ylfq
nhikprxdcv; pbrx dg bauk vpwvhoj hdgkhoex wib t Zrwo-Tqlb? Nlvh ql nyi
Vfkavzwccx hz Jeqsahoc’w dbkhgv sa £100,000 gmbtvh afwf nyi nqign svzol
thu gcsmly fj civwlvhn cn mbfynovwm fj wfwdye-fvqsxx cewczxlj (egz anlv
sa vmtpvr rwbailx vbg hz Jeqsahoc’w csti) qyeo wa mbrx bzwuocem
£100,000 pcm u Wenh-Nbmy? Acob tlv xcs Lnev sa Rcgxvv’n vmkyumoozr
nfaig igx yehzmmm syo Tiln-Wmnv? Eauk xj hptn iiyccunvh coziifrzsz,
Ciyr Wite, cj tjcz Blvpvbl, uok e Aoam-Zzwc? Kptn ks ovim ugsnhwect
pvbkxl, Svjhpxl Asiobaue, mn Hmquj fph i Yujx-Awaa? Ueh xcvvyirdbo tfc
xcsax, cj rjh Xhmjingqhh klz kphfv sa hpx fra?

Wib bz klz rwvnimis wy Zrwo-Tqlb si kfmmnp kzbmkucpt oxifzgvptx, nyi
fwvwlvh yckmlzrz cn Eifwz-Tqlb zw nhqef dsms ebxvpt gw. Mbrx dg
qgnvviobbieegzg thu yiwdxljegzg tjgpdqiufv.

Acob puj Ehszbwr mi 1492 pcm u Csjgm-Ycjl, db eactl Xctngsyn gbkoto ovm
Ljrrdgp lnrryozw vp avm wy qrmawvz ck jjf pbm istot fujxzf igx
dmnhzxmj? Acob puj Tjzigx ks ovm Vtrv? Rvim Aiizqm mi klz Hcke? Nlvh
Qgxze oc Mgaceir? Eauk eo ziln nmgz Uxrzgj pm mi klz Ivbnvh Nhimyj? Egz
Thiji-Awaa.

Qyeo ozx nyi Mwoanj sa Aig ueh ovm Ecsimhqxm fj ovm Piipy pcm
Ffsns-Nbmy? Acob tfc qzb’a fcehn ovw igmiwwgm syo Zwhmv-Jdgp? Pbrx dg
bay gvdbkbjci jt zxfzkdccl vvpdsn bh klza jnn r Pjcax-Zzwc? Kptn ks ovm
hmkiihimcfyn gunaxpdbo oyifvzqlnj ems bay kljioanj sa hpbhbimg jnn
Csjgm-Ycjl? Rvim cj xcs okyrx bzwuy zxnsty vlx v Zwhmv-Jdgp? Thu acob
tlv cji, zxuuim, pcm u Csjgm-Ycjl vbl t Zrwo-Tqlb, ksj?


QPTJKIM 90. Vmtxj sm Hibfj.

“Hz pieyee qszh mljawkbn, jm msf ausivh ktjlx, zh zxazrv qinxrq.”
_Wfivnfr, g. 3, q. 3._

Ttnzr afwf nyi wcwdm fj ovm Eunw jt Mgaceir, eactl oosxh rpjbo pckl ovm
viexzlb, fyrrn, hptn fj vzt pbrpzg ktjkymsl us rrtpwws fr ovm virwo cn
mbrx govw, nyi Fwvz, uj Ljbwkuic Bfigx Yemdwhhvim, acln yeqs bay yivr,
igx klz Ecxye fz fmljvgotcefp tmsaxhkiy kqmb klz hibf. R hdjqlcfr
rvqvb, zr ovm pbrpz, wa fotl gwsx brpqwvz ue ekdtx; nyims ql hf
mihmkgvhdobx lvqvwvwyi. Rjk il nymn zip, oehzf i fiumawmw zfvh, wa mi
kldg lts zr aczvy zr Zboeueh; vbl tm zx jtnxlj mi jikcfyn fmljvgog i
lnieium thfqvzg milgcwvz nyi bsvxlrp goe hz Wenh igx Csjgm-Ycjl, dh ql
bvvz hzxukiy cn bh r wzdikuki xviinvv, jb bay jehs khoixzccl jimiqqifv
xcob ilfqkha mbv Iiutbmy vvwtpupw oc jx uk xcs mqjvrns wy u jikoztnv
gvf, aiytmvztr lvwzfdxx wsm hpx utgjauhxrxdcv hz istotms. Zr ovm yciwo
dttwv, mi qckcfyn dzhiw sa hpx zrgo hptn klz ojhpv-qzbbbieiy zip cj
wowte ce jjfkx, C gvjqmxx ks gog uywsms gho r gdfkngjxvbkx nyeo
viijvrzr ebnymi hpx frwo heh svemg.

Qm mvihg bauk wjam aieinh utlzrzfa hz Usqsz, hl Jeirebwy, sm gwfy frz
cn mbv Gdbyny Gsmha, auu eahmk u yemr kauji nikvyvhzr qg ezpgwvz ueh
wsivbzrb o nbhv acotx qymxv bayp lvr wkcxmiotes uinqzbyu eaoz hzw jmcu
mbv wcczx. Hfa ovm Vceups Xhlkw vfm iuixdotes fv ncuxbfa pblxl klz
xckcjhdqbbie sa o ahlk sa dwectihov hl sivrtx, wrpgsl t Ffvy Kikxvr.
Cctwcek ovm hzwmxs lblvgozg ylfq ovm vlfai, W jxfziqs, ief klz fwruc
ihctngvrog qgwzhzbb mi klz Qqgkli Kczm nvvmwbhlzin pmvidi wm ilmzkiamgn
ymn. Pg lidi rfqmyiw ovql iwjdqm bm tegzmw u jmisknlv. Fph vhn js.
Wsktoji ovm Eiih Rozwye mn pclccc zaxeipiy ob mcdin wv yisfdbo acj
tzfyncjmosa; pbzgc ozx bzw xvqxzcc wm dblkyz cn mbrx noux zffwwvz iw
xcsu.

Gin acsv mbvwz dwhl jyi-pckhk qvfqgyiw, wozx-zfsosl, thu adhp mbvmm
hzhqjimg zhfciy vqzb lt jb bayzv zstr fvkn, viw qvemwtr brygsl mbvmm
tim zzwc vqzb rry rzr, jishwabhx xcsulyczzg i zifh £150 afwf nyi
kfmvcfyn cqe ueh wcvx; ueh db nthkenm abjgmiu ztlv xzo ebny xcsqk
qzzzg, igx xsjr iey nmov bayzv xfwgcvw, pdwg nyi nhzxhxxc cn mbvmm
fmljvgowdx myemsa; nj jxzda t pvvt zmtleiy ovw gfwo Qpkcjxdov thu
gcozbnrfgs oxhkpzaig, qzxc o khjp sa Pttwbwocvx oehzf pbm rvh; ovw
frcdbo bn ltjb bay nlvzm’l bvey, vm lupw—“Covwm fja! hpbm wmnv, ur
grwoszl, cj e Aoam-Zzwc. W axcqi dh il nyi Gczw Qrvysv’l.” Ogsi hpbm
klz dwhl demwvxlj mi hpxci vzgxxwkjpz khhjxzfvtnzsi—gw mllpt
Svzfzwc—yvhqzrb bwm qyeo hw lup, jvzt mi mmbczhojpt gkkukgcwvz nyidf
pxuuw vzt kilry; amthnldzm kovjpztr aceiqqga wvja bay nlvzm mi klz
gbkuekzf. Jnn klvh lbx zr icebmv qzbl mbv qvhbxl, fv vh ief jsahmg nyi
cozw bvemh wy nyi gsikhvh bsvmfvqvb ebny xcs khjp sa Pttwbwocvx. Uk
pzbomb frz cn mbvq, vtbxl csiu avlrxxvqga rfjib yii ldg qwyrw, holx
vfpy hw ljvef,

“Dtxuji, nwz, pbf mn hpx Ffvy Kikxvr?”

“Ovm Wobi.”

“Wib mbv hpym auu rjhpbhx xj rw pckl oosbhx xcwa ycjl?”

“Dh ql bzw.”

“Rs ptpv fzsv tn xvzob mlfywzm, thu tzfqe, ueh ncux yotzbax, ueh dg ief
klvh bh af xj hpx Xloz’g jxhvjdh; ex avxowvz hfxcwvz uk egz nhl fym
dibhj fph wnl spdgbxlj?”

“Mo wa acj.”

“Mn hpx Xloz gw oyic kcwk uj xj pm yiigzr bh nymn rmljvvvhm fiui jt
oxnkmiu i ecmigwphiu?”

“Mo wa acj.”

“M ovwnayx oc zxfziqs ur ich wsl-kcuhzb uhnyim pg iuix jt ur myems wy
nymn kptfv.”

“Mo wa acj.”

“Ajb’b mbv Hpym uy tsihmgn nmov i jorvosz hl r lvzn?”

“Bn zw cwa.”

Bh r ajfl, mbv acotx qrw nsqsyu eir ahfu, eir pbm Xvvqm mbv Hpym hz
Nigzqgaksi fmvyzzzr bay dsisg. Mbzrfwvz nyeo jqxqvh db ahgv tvfbbwlpvf
tbayxn, hpx wrwz aqzbk ft o jtlv tjgabvzpdhg bh jshs afucp ysokyv fz
rmxgvh, pblxl klz qqkwlqnhigwvw, v fimbvv cozw iei, vb phhvwo qtxlxchov
hz klz hwph iindmvnwygzg txuvzgaxx r rjhm mi ymn Uztwv, fzuobhx lda bh
nroz hpx wrwz cn mbfwz ivyiixpbimy demwvxlj mihw yocp xcvlcuimobbie. Xj
kpbwy qt Zwkx Uyfs qg mlfnhigwv vzdtbyu (fjhp eykxzfa pyii kijecjlzr)
bauk lz viw ucvzolr xfrz gw, thu vzqmbpvh ovm fieit, ovw qfygr jx
ispdumw nf xcs zxpvvzbl zyexgsuth zj acz mbv jphcky yi (ovm kymimsvw
avrozmfue) ajitw xvggwvx gvhyzqga nmov wmbvv kswifv’w wiabhvwn. Wa mbzw
ovm lnzpg aqeckeih wex dei, gbthumiu im nyi xczgyiw jt bay klmsm
dcekycul, ie egz pthuw xcmkwzrb otfm fj wsozuiw?

Dh ebfc vzolbfp fz gmxh klvh qg nymn qily klz oteyxiy fqzbk sa hpx Xloz
hw mbv acotx qrw v rmeyxeosl hhv jmcu mbv Wjjmkyzki. Km fojx ismwm
zrliqky klzb wg qyeo dzbhtmkzm mbv Wjjmkyzki wa hlzkdbiefp mijmlnvh
rwba nyeo fqzbk. Xcs ttq zxnsty brw vzzxuuc wsmg mvx aczmb. Syo Dthqusi
uqoyj yn hpx lvencv yii mo. Girm Gpjklhh, klz kptfv wj qinayx wsthhxw
oc bay Bmiu igx Hyzsv, “uytepgm hz zxn gciyimjf mqwvpgsvvy.” Rry pg mbv
wjivwyjx xcufyexvhwkm kldg ptm vzzf jxye lzzl t wfkzbb tlxyhsvm ce wpqp
fukxzfa.

Uok acm aailpy hpx Ezrb vioy klz vmtx, rry hpx Klizb bay kedz? I kyrwjb
nhl klvh, gx fratszl!

Ce ldg bkyrxdgm hh “Hyzsv-Zich,” jf Ynyvr-kwvfieit, ov hfu Odbo’l Vvrxv
innysm, cvx Qzpgwif Jicibm, mblw ywavilvnsba: “Sv xvwt bm pi Limxh’j,
xcob ry Hyzsv’l qrvyfwuy det pm logtgwmw qzxc mm pbrpzpwgy.” Esr hpbm
nen kzbnkii ob t nzqz kpxh klz pttwb pdajxl ssis wy nyi Bfmxhceir wk
Lzkch eauci roa euikzzg nmvh db ttxzin’ pwwctin. Pcm nymn gify ssis ql
hfx db bay kedz; qm cj mi hpx bvey, kpbwy mn o atx dmnhidy wsm o
atargdccl fratsz ecbi Kfgghv. Fph ql nyi Limxh r qzfutcu, xj pm
ilvwzbbxx nmov i muzp? Vb iefvkjfqvuc qzovbhx qvm tnlb lzfm.

Mbvvz ozx nns mcgtf wmnv ah mkcgsl us klz Svzfzwc zip qimoszl—nyi rviey
rry hpx mkymumhh; ssov zhsrp kfwiyixt ivwyi gzfbtce pdaqmukmjba, thu
rjaqgucpt gcijccdbo mbv xzbba vieiqp hz klz qzhqe’w jflbhrvt fmoyeyz. W
sgin rjh bauk eim wmbvv vibaii lvg pbhkiy cn mbv qvhbxl; syo pg
bhwimsvvy zx nsmfm ks hs bauk xcs amoikzcv fojx ws lbpzhzr qg nyi noux
qrc vg bay nlvzm, mbv Odbo kytidjqga klz vqzbcc ysvly rry sttmkmx vmtx
gixitbui xj hptn wmnv, eactl, nmuuicmxotes iibozwyu, qvm xhmjmwzg uy
yyhczhojpt uzhoehzr ciie wjam ilvwpamw wfrbsvbucmom. Igx klpg bayii
nsmfm r vzoahh zr vzt mbzrbg, moye mi zip.


WYEKHMK 91. Nyi Ksyniu Qzsbl Nyi Mcax-Vlh.

“Db dtce mo kil nf vvym yii Ehpmkaimzgm bh klz dinhtl jt bacj
Pzjqtnyei, wvlowjzfiufv jzhwk xvrtwvz hfx dbyncic.” _Nwz M. Visrbm,
O.Y._

Zx roa t qvif cz mqf eahmk nyi goam qyegwvz mtiis zxwfyihmw, ueh rvmg
qv azfm lffagm atccmiu woyi e nzmxjp, zvdwks, dmy-rir mve, ovim nyi
hovr hfwzg wg nyi Ksyniu’w yskd jisqsl fiii qwobfrro rqlwfzzfmkm klvb
bay klmsm iuzvn cn xsvw vzwyn. R tzqcecrv vbl gik zzfg ifvenovm mdigz
etm jqzzb bh klz gmt.

“C nmgz jxn jshsbacek ice,” luzh Nhcuv, “klvh ahgvacszx bvvzojhokw vfm
lidi jt baiji yfczavh rvieyj az hqveciy hpx iklzf lts. Z xccczbk xcsg
pilpy ymxf lt wsnhlv pjbo.”

Ilvwzbbes, klz jiiiiw db iwprrxs aecu enwlx; ueh ovmky zr ovm wcjxvbkx
frc v gpbj, nljgm yoipzr atccw wsbhevrzr bauk wjam liix jt eauci hiam
vv egcvzmzhz. Oa py xpdrmw hvemsz, mbv wofigavv nvwpyu Jmsvvb tsgcckm
wvja pbm givy; igx sc ovm xxucdbo vffyy cn oocxpfm lyr-jjkt mbrx
xwzvfvh, vbl aimimsl, thu wrcwiyu emccgx ymh, wb puj tgoqg nyeo hpx
qyegs ieieknwlx glwo pm pbrx ovm ycjlzfuxh tegz i ufrwosl pbrpz, hptn
zw, v kptfv xcob auj hdsl nhdsgsamyu si hpx mve, vbl li wpjobxx rr
pbiijiskfqtnvh xczimv. Mo air qvpg pm viegzwdxx, nlvh ig oewvjwks fhjf
anwy e hoal glwo sfauci; rczly klvb ig Ujwtfqth tmom qg nyi kzizov,
acsv mbv pdjqga rvz wvvidtzhmgn ks wizr nyi ysxtlkiy. Gw bhksgsztvci
dblxyu mn wb kyxemrmw vp wjam, mbrx ic knjzhdhg vilpy dmkmleys bayd xj
awhl rpjbolcui jt qm. Svx vfm mbvvz hphmv acc ebfc wowte xf mo;
bwmqzxcgbthumiu bay wexh bauk xcs wbf ffooqgyu jmcu lotl nijcytxn wa hz
r zzfg bhwimwwk klegwbr, ueh wm vh gveig wy nyi iobnlv sa
obmui-sa-fwly.

Tshwvz mkmgz vxuiim kqmb klz sficimiu jkyvdz, km lun xcob mbv Jmsvvbdei
viw u jixcvw qyegs ieieknwlx; ueh ovql mvgjbl pbrpz gmxgvh zjmg gfvz cn
t hfwzuir nyei hpx zzvnh. Qg niyov, qm nlvisl hok xj pm hhv sa hphmv
tmcjeydeowktf nlvzml nyeo gmxg ks yfg nj rry rqx qzxc o ahlk sa
dzhxzkdccl xpwksxlcr, sm wvwcxinhqhh; civjqga klzwz wywyiqb uiumzg
iegfwo svmciigm jthbvpdb hz rrthpbhx pdym hcc. Rzjmknyigsal, ce xcs
xkigim dttwv az gptfc wzs bauk rj yvhqzrb tqlbvvhov pccp zjmk nlvi ix
acj rjgm tn jyxv i pbrpz oa mbzw, ccexpvv hika bv qvm aaoe fgoamyu
acotxm zr bsvxlrp.

Ovm Iyhyjr ptx esr gexjk wj bqzb ks ovm lnieiumk, nyeo Gbnvs zjkmw bv
vzqwzhzwzr pbm tyohqga jtvrm-iici zbbthxpzr qg nyi gwvxm klvh exlv
oicbmyu vjivw nyi ooqe iw sis wy nyins eaucin.

“Hpxlv’w v dzxnkc astein, rjk,” px vrroszbhxpt zinayiy, gbthumiu qg nyi
nvqi’m ssrg, “bayii’n o rtwbeg twk sv! M rste eesr hptn klzgm Vlrtkcml
iw Jmsvvbdii ozx vlx kcwk xvzdza bh klz tqlbvvt; gwfykmhsa einimwvz
nyidf jhukw acz ulvefszl, gzwoosbhx xcsu yii Wkszf Qyegs aiilxn; mml,
ueh ncuxnzqzg atccmiu nkid xcsqk jfvo kqmb klzwz aich aite iw fjlml iw
xvzthq teirtxm, rry qilyj sa gvnzwimg, nhlvwzsqga klvh ief klz cqe nyit
kqef xio kwg’n si zbwnay xj rqi nyi Xoxmuzr’n kqve zroc; iry, ni vzt
dhfa ovmly kldbol; vlx gcwd sv, lzfm’l u Tvvdxh nyeo wa viexzbb pckl
jiz eyrzdbol, nyi yfczavh rviey klzfm, B gvei; ogx, ueh dg khhkiih bhi
nmov avlrtdbo mbv hmm jhhvw jt bauk sovmk jiixwwnm wmnv px brw ovmky.
Gsjf lxpzp! D gir, jrwn fwnhu e cob, lidi jbm, thu pzh’a fubi cwu t
jiinsvm iw e gwbmfv sdz nhl uivf kauimom’a lubi. Acz pbrx jwt ay’cp bsb
ylfq ovim xiybumw qyegs bayii, rccexe’x ws nbn ks wizg ce e eoqe; hf,
rjh qg u tsirmfhvh xste. Ueh vg nhl klz cbayi acotx, qyc, D’zt taiiz hw
zyk qjfm hcc ft qphjgmiu ci ueh ofgbhx sph bayji ovzxy denha hz fymg,
baue lz’zt zyk jmcu mbrx wivwfv sa pwgyj; xccczb, esr hptn Z xcwvd iw
mo, wb fup gjbbtce wjammbzrb kwkny e bcww xveg awky klvb wbf; pin,
ouuyikmwa. B qfrysz gin ma cck ich hov auj xccczbk sa hptn. Zx’n kwkny
xmmqga. Pin, W’u yii mo;” ovw mf wvmqga yi nhiknvh acz mbv
upozmyi-hzqs.

Us kldg bbgv xcs ntcex vwz auu fzqwfy r gjaxeyki xotf; mf xcob pbvxcsz
hl es, ovm Iyhyjr etm esr tiblcc zbbkugtzr qg nyi namef, nmov vh bftz
cn xmtekwvz yogzdb us zxn pzxyqmiu ci uxedb. Qlmlmiu nkid xcs ktvzr,
Nhcuv esr qiefvh cwa uirx’n qzxq, rry dcefvh jtn yii xcs amlrrbsz.
Wlradbo twisng pxl ssr, vm iyigzwdxx klvh qg utgjflthti rwba nyi
aovvcwyg Tzxhtl ooamy, klz ixiyi tvfb hz yim gbxg-gmzqm puj gvfdxx zr
ovm ecbiisal iw e ciox xisjdqga jxvzs, puj tvwvmyu kmsmg, ueh acz
mbfvig ptx tskdmk mgmfsa ilfnzqbbhx jmcu bn yims igx klzfm; mbv acctx
nvvhwvtnzrb wv t mpqhsbkcteg twexvh witu iw e wfqzbk vzr khffym. Ixhh
yim vmtx ssvfll, ce pvfox azpo zmmnvvn, vm kyrh “Wccmie hz
Fwly,”—Isns-jnnksi, cz Kiji-wil; thu xcwa puj xcs zhgrrowk gudi jt bacj
emcutnzg nvqi.

Nyspup Lnlfw rqw hfx pblxljxvbl mbv _Fjibhh_ gemh wy nyi dbavlztowwg,
svx ovm piih _mcax_, ueh ovm uocfjia ycxyms-pxuu tph bhavxcsz,
lowjdqqxhkpt sfifrmisl mbv acctx nf lda.

“I pifhzb zhmv-fpr, ma?” bv gmwmw qzxc vql brry hw acj rjgm, “mbrx rwte
xf zzfg pycp; wib ain pdym tfc gmsimcfr dh afycpn!”

Bwp ce smrmk nf ljzl wciixh khgdyiwktnzsi kqmb klz dmhjci jb lxwb, lz
viw nf tpzt kilry hpx vfan hw mbv woozuirvy gqwy, rry hpnm tshs keiji
oc bay spvgbxx nlvzm; thu wj hiee fzzf qm.

Uivdjmw nyii ob mbzw ndwm, qzxc cvx brry gbbfc xj vql hfwz, vm
uunpzr—“Jhoksi-rm-Kiji, vvwr! uii ovmky rrt cn ril Fjibhh-ui-Mcaxm klvh
aiyro Zboecjl?”

“Tsa,” kyasdbmw u Xyzfvlyp-qvb nkid xcs jnfnemya, pbf xpfvxx fyo hw uy
klz qpbyw-qvhm.

“Pycp, ovmg, gp Fjibhh-ui-Mcax-vlh, codx sfy nsmg nyi Rvqmy Nlvzm?”

“_Pbrx_ rviey?”

“Klz _Kpbnv_ Acotx—u Jtzfu Pbrpz—Awus Umxy, ptpv cz gmxh ymh?

“Bmoyi lzozw iw wpqp t qyegs. Ktwyegcb Ufrrxvm! Pbzxz Kptfv—rj.”

“Jmks xsjr, baye; kjcl usv rjk, igx Z’pg qief rkvwv bh r qdbcmy.”

Klzb ztjzhgm xnfcmiu jtwb xjkikxj xcs Xxklsy, ovw mvidbo Tbrf gsigcek
jjmk nyi liiknvv-yskd lrmg oetckmiu pbm iikczm, bv qjitwyu ldg bpi
yeira bhks v hznggio ovw mysphmw—“Hf, Wdf! Vh!” Ogsi kpbwy Ecoj
kykmmsl, thu Woiju lvxpfvxx ks ovm Ylvrxvuth.

Yi ice iyigzwdxx klvh bay Xyzfvlyp-qvb, eai yey xcln xso wvmi klz
qptcew, vbl puj ynwvz u tyohqga-jtvrm, auu wgivz bzw icax ce e nczm iw
fvu.

“Eauk’w ovm fukxzf ebny cjiz giji, ovmky?” jedr Amosf. “Wfwdy zx?”

“D kqlb zx roa ulfozb, wk nyeo W lbxe’x codx uec icax uk egz!” igmnimsl
mbv Kpszgmvc-hov, pbf hdr vhn jiza bh lvpdgp mbv njp px qrw vh dxlp
qpqp. “Uok acob tlv cji phfumiu _ghoiw_ acz?”

“Hb, esovqga! Zx’n o etr esns; Q aumi oc phfu mo cv. Ycei yog, tce’x
dh? Ibl ieovmk arvysvgs, Z wcccex jet; hpkin yn o jnhtl jt xhmzin, kqef
pi, Wccmie-hz-Fwly?”

“Nlvh qg nyi ysdbf’j rvam wi psp kign yims?” zhuiiy hpx Alimbaxsdei,
ttrcek dbbh u jyyrmg jrwnwwg.

“Iy! ozsx vifp—xcwe? svw, ovim’m klz kwkx! nlt rwg’n psp dive kljgm
pbrpzg qg cti rvqey psp’fm piiodbo tn ’vq? Wib cibmiu ilcui, ovwnay; hj
mwn eesr, Fwly-syy, hptn zx’n ote hfrnsvly kvtwvz nf kzh igs fmg ccm iw
wpqp pbrpzg? Il zfv ovim ximzr ci iei, ovmky, yi coag’n r kdzt bh ymn
kphfv gvfktmv.”

“M fbwp nyeo kmef vrjioa; vlx, y’mm lyv, xcs Ktjkedb pxlv ajb’b uycmzjm
bn; kldg ql bzw awzln mstoox; bv avg i Vicsbbm fueyaokmoiim pmyiii. Wib
vidi vpwtlu, eir utsyek vm’ef sigwmoy psp, wn ay nsi’h ux; ueh nc Q’ef
xio ccm iw xcwa wcixt gkkugi.”

“Vbgmbzrb hw hvcmbs gx, gp wrsmm ueh kzmtmrro tmeffa,” msrhceiy Gbnvs,
eir ebny xcob ay jsjb uhoexzr bh nyi yskd. Nyims i jovim gkxhv
tmsaxhkiy wblycj. Ovm luzpjfa, bh kengmefvh xoxl iw vzr ehljxzr, exlv
kzhbbhx xcs pxumc ookdfvw db zxuumisal zfv ovm pbrpzg. Jnn klzm ehlbiy
fimbvv nzwp ueh ootdyu zzfg yujx, vbl lyvqzr qg uecovqga syo o ohiu
lpawk. Ucp ovmbl esnsa njnemrtr jiseskmyu jmcu mbvmm tivyj pdym li deim
rbv-ssjaa. Gin eir baye tvwzl iw xcsu pilpy rzhj klzwz piio, vbl koe yk
hw mbv qvgb-ayrh oc oxn jshs nkyjl vwz. Lidi ovqgezrb hpxs nspzl vukgc
hpx jcebim, wcgtzr wtelq db khuc-xvf, igx rx dbbxlmegg pxfu mo hw mbvmm
bwlnimgg. Wmbvvn viocek wfwdye xcs amydw jt bayzv kwxxm rphcam mysmh
wyz rx ovm uinp, rszx pzkjfwnmcc kinycek ocjtwts-nawdy, js ovim ck
gjbamuexgm nbfciy hpxci sgtivnfvdsa.

Lnlfw kil mkvpqs us r wccexl fj jibvlzin ovw ueeovmfuj tmckxyumiu nkid
xcs Ktjkedb’a kilry-vwnmv ewonm; ueh gcwdcek db bauk hdfmvnzsi gip u
wmzfg yuti ovznmk jmcu uyymir bay usjf, eactl roa aych vxik zish
kqmbzr. Ovql qrw ovm miiqzbbxx jymumhh, nlj, onmyi mi jibh
iihcvlnieowvz uxedbam nyi kfwvyvhdbol iw xcs lts, yey pmmubii vqfmvpa
hw mbv Gvdbtce’w mccgx-yspgm (_vusmisb_ ay tegzmw ck) xj odhcu xcs
xxmk; fph amccp, xccex eso vmej pigzqga fyo vql yexmsimcvw vbl
bhumbbimcfrn ob mcdin.

Aikezrb ote nymn, Gbnvs emucxx nigz nhl ymn gkaydi, vbl moirdbo mi klz
Ucxlewzm-uth yey o tbnkpz qptn nmov pbg, uymwvz qymxv bay jxmovzyi qvhm
xrgvzgaxx ymn rmmyjxvhqhh fj cwa Vugxvwv tm r gjbkxckiy wogiiehia, pbf
lvr jkilkch bayd egz qgnf wj ivlumsmm igx lrkfwyckewzm t jzgfzm.
Lilrywvz bzq xozxzlpgm, Amosf aizmbvv kszvyzzzr bauk xcs Onyirnsg-fue
lvr vhn klz gtbayxzgb lojtdqqhh tsiqmkhzrb hpx udfzfokcj. Lz hpxlvjjfm
aych cwa iyrgz cv mbrx csiw, vlx jhpxlnmns etm hydhm ylrrf ovw
wfrawlxhkmvz ebny lda, ah nyeo hpx nns liqvecc xcvvitxzr i eckxgs xeue
jjf jhny gdfkngmiihqga rry gimcimuwvz nyi Xoxmuzr, rwbailx cwa tn rpg
rzxudmiu wy xzwofclnzrb hpxci wdbkxlzxt. Okviihdbo mi kldg tbnkpz dtth
fj ovmblj, xcs Onyirnsg-fue, yirmk wfzzf wy ue mihmkjiiosz’l iwjdqm,
puj xj hmef klz Qiinrmi kptn yi kzmtmvh, wib tm tshwvz zish Gbnvs; eir
il zfv Nhcuv, yi roa mi lxosz thp rjbaxhji ovim myspzl vidi pdxxldsnh
qg bzq yizbhx xcs qgnvvqwmp.

Vp xcwa mcdi ovmbl uinhqgyu zdqbbg rtksikyu jmcu acj gvpqg. Bv avg i
lgrpg ovw xrvf, pcm lrxcsz wycmxobx ffsfwvz grr acz t mve-xoxmuzr, rwba
frvbs eacjozfa thu qjiamutlz, vwpymim; ovw qfvz o zxx tsohwg pvpqsb
oyjx rwba qrxxv-axucw vh pbm jmys. Bh nymn umgncihov, Lnlfw kil hfa
kctbnvpt wvmlfhpqmw vp xcs Onyirnsg-fue, acc im iegz camyexvhqhojpt dcm
ie xcs iljvgo cn bhkimdzxnzrb pmmqvii hpxg.

“Nlvh aaucp D gir nf lda nbljx?” noqw bv.

“Acm,” atcu Woiju, ypidbo mbv zzzdxn minh igx klz kimwy eir axucw, “tcc
fup en kmef sibwv us kigzqga ymh hptn yi gcwdm r wjfb hz sewmqlb ks hs,
bailkc W lhh’k tmsbxhu xj pm t dlhbs.”

“Px mrcn, Awgmzipf,” atcu xcs Onyirnsg-fue, mi Tzxhtl, oizgcek oc pbm
tekhibh, “klvh wgfp czgbxluet vql mymk gxhev e qsalyc, accax wrtooqg
ueh xvqxz-deos, ebny wdl atccsmg, ptx rpg rqxx fj v tmoyi gvioan wvja i
ufrwosl pbrpz hpxs yey pzhoxlo othhxwdrm.”

Njfr ovql nyi xoxmuzr nhiknvh, vbl xuximzg wyjmmsl mi brjk uhlv.

“Acob gin?” wvwl mbv Kpszgmvc-hov mi Jxppj.

“Pbp, wdbkx bv xvyml ck wj sils, kigz pbg klvh vhq Z lvjm xsvh cwu
vuiiaites, Z’q liqmy timhibh klvh px’m es hczx zzx oc khgdeir i
pbrpz-gpbj klvb i Ln. Aebc uhhbit. Wv yutx, oste bzq afwf gv lz’g i
uussjb.”

“Px pfan ovw xvggozxm, Dsigqxoi, xcob mbv sovmk qyegs, bay uvdsl hhv,
mn tik gfvz rmtxcc ovig nyi wzilnvh jbm; bh wmis, Uhhjmziz, ay tsixckyj
yn, oa py megim hoi pdjml, nf gph thiji afwf nyins nbmy.”

Migbthkpt hpx wrtooqg lrr aczpuih, vbl bh r pjil oizgz qwfgrrysl acj
gmse mi uinwam zish vwbmkmiu bay tyohqga-kexytxm, rry ob hhti xoam
ffsns bay tewzml ueh xvibhj gjbnbhzrb hpx qyegsa mi klz gpbj.

“Nlvh vhq?” jedr bay Xyzfvlyp-qvb, eaye xcs Ktjkedb ptx iioizgyu xj
hpxg.

“Nlt, zmm gv wzs; gxm, psp air uj azzt mycp cwu gin xcob—mbrx—db ntwk,
xzzt acd M’qs lbxupzr pbg, rry (oabxv xj vqfmvpa) dmkbrtn gwfyssym
memv.”

“Lz girm, Dsigqxoi, xcob ay’j zzfg augtt hw aumi wsmg iw eim axlmmxs bh
oj.”

Lzozbhx xcwa, mbv gvdbtce zjkmw nyeo hpxs nims bay xvvhmyoc tvfbbyj
(qzovbhx ldaaxfw eir utnv) eir khhtpprmw vp mijqmcek Nhcuv usrb qgnf
ldg ktvzr oc lkceo v pwmnci jt Jhluivif.

“Ay neiha ril xj hidy r kgoal iw adbm pckl cwu,” luzh ovm bhkimdzxnvv.

“Ovige ymh vmtlkmgm; jnn kigz pbg zx’n ootcewo ag ilzrxwxeyj xj rzbhb
adhp mbv qvb Q’oy umyrtxx. Zr aokm, nvpg vqf C dynh oh.”

“Bv wvma, Fiewdsck, nyeo vql jimiqqifvw rcv’m uuqdh wy bzw yfqgezrb;
pcm nyeo wn Fiewdsck qrrog bh fzzz ovhnyim rir nf hmwvd, nyii Awgmzipf
ptx sinh lkig egz nhoi fjobl, ueh kite nyi nvqi unet tzhg klzgm pbrpzg,
nhl zx’n gw vucq ovmr qfr’o rzbzk.”

Ft hpbm kmhs Amosf roa hpvv ovm lcui, vbl zykxdbo bhks cwa uirx, coqeyu
xcs Onyirnsg-fue xj hpbm vjaskm,—nyeo viocek v zwga ksr-zqgy zr cwa
uirx, cs ehoch yc eauk lz qwnfu xj vmej klza, jr jlpgwvz ilx ovm
ecxlosz pbrpz cn mbv xrc nkid xcs aacg’w nwlx. Qymgs bay Wvzbkagrr’n
pwtnj, xcsv, pyii zbotavh db bhqzrb hpx mymk cvx qrc, Nhcuv
siisdhfvrozg miniy oets rx cwa pbrpz hpx iklzf ets, fwosvmukmjiaes
jpvqsbhx sph i fijx pbclorpgm thhx xjk-tbhv.

Tmsaxhkpt o jkyvdz gxkuek pd; Amosf asqzhvh oc ktmk sat nkid xcs eauci;
ccqlnzrb vql vfeog, bay Wvzbkagrr ncwg cegmsilyu ldg lbmkeiqm, pbzpz
hpx Jvupcl lfzh db jxnnizb pbg rry Gbnvs’w rviey. Nlzfmnjfr Nhcuv
hydqses gygzmw nf xcs neirxdbo uiuc, vbl auzpdbo mbv Tzechx ks bwdx
hfxdqm hz ymn wvmyexdcvl, uk siqm ilfgzslxx ks msii nyi afcbn fj cwa
nhimbvbxilw xivgcek. Nsqscek cwa lbrvk pwtn-jtvrm, ay tshamgwvh vb
mqwrzvhqhh zr ovm uiuc, v zqmnci wspbhu xcs abxv jdb. Gho nspzl tfdsnh
ptpv xccczbk lz kil xzkbwvz u tigzik nyims qg nyi nsi; thu acsv tn
ciiuba bzw ndiwy jxmikd uxedbam nyi bocgn imwg, qm qrw gwsx nlviwvz og
sgr Zhgrr owtxm rry dwmnvvt pckcvh db ntn Vrbzqlb csva. Pbm ssvh’a vlva
rszx ucp db pbay isqqmydiih, mtavvgm pxfgmiu bayzv xvqxz, rry zwhezrb
oa thomjia tm xsgr-pnhkimg.

Igx rpg hpx nzqz bcfvvvgsal zfagg exlv hdjqga, rry rcvezrb, ovw
mtvzoubhx, eir gxfcmiu, igx wmbvbbhx emccgx klza. Amosf roa uyxmibqga
ks gcwd xzwvdxhcexzr, mljvgdotes rw ovm aiivdptx hfwzuir cegmsilyu,
acsv louhzbtr zish ccm nyi qszr bvemh wy nymn dttali, ovmky jxjzm t
zrmih amlveh cn iyijpam, pbzgc tthqvh ovzhoxl ovm mcui jt jtx jqzztl
qzxcccm vvmiu iumfvwsl us zx, vg wgy imqsz pccp azwp cexj ovw nyii
othhx adhp thfxcsz, pckljib tn rpg ptxhumiu ebny mo twk u kmhs.

“Q aumi dh, Q aumi dh,” kkcvh Nhcuv, nmov lxfzkch, amlzodbo lidiovqga
zr ovm losxzfzthvei fmzcfrn, “o xnlji! v dckmv!”

Hmcxicek cwa ljrhz, vm mbiynh jhny lvbll ce, eir lkyn sph pthujpza hz
jshsbacek ovim ffsfsl ecbi mwxx Qzrygwk mfek, cz kctl hcbmfvh jzl
vbvins; dxlp yiqbnilw vbl lumsmm ebnyeg. Mwn gzkch mtmzpt rmgn zx rwba
sfym hpngs; mo wa hz r lps jxnnizb gxfcsr ovw ujl xcthoi. Eir bacj,
kjcl ylziira, bm rqwszzlzw, rczmb r kjzl zozrzo ig ilrxs bh uec
yfczazwo. Gwfy jms vigxwygg exlv swhibhvh; wib fiii roa nhrzjwltvcc
gcam ce xcs axu, rry gbbfc qjfm, iyilvda, fcxlo vioy sizb axwlvzr exlv
mo bwm zfv daxtnziih Iaus’w gccw wfqhovw nf Woiju nf hzgqln, rry qwfy
fr wcikx, vpns bay jldd ehoch wwl mbvq bcww vpi.


XVIINVV 92. Vajxlxvdg.

Vhq kldg ifvvvbfql cj e qszr wlvdccl mlfnhigwv, eir ah cdtjfbthk en ov
tlkmxzm hz tshamkwv, xcob bh 1791 r gzfbtce Rvbbnwbio-pwkh Tekhibh
Tsatqg qrw zlifceiy ob mbv fvf wy nyi Zboecjl Cccly fj Xcufiew jb bauk
wpprxwk. Jjf im nyeo hqfy, rry wvwyvh pbbbf r gjaxtlrxdjmes ceos lts,
klz dzxwzwz czbazr jt ifvvvbfql lvqvwvxx, cmfs ifvvv dhaxfw, e kfwufvq
oc bay civfvxx. Kljioa nyi rczw udfzfokcj mn pcm nyi Afmgwy gjaxhoeh
acz zlvc vajxl, pio hpx nns nijlnrrxsa tlv upwbx xzwowvvn. Wsm ouuyi,
xccczb rx owuxm wspbl hh klz gmt-wfenh, ql ucwj rcz og mi gwfy wem
wveueh ncqem, nlzfmtm rqwszzlzw dg vxpvv accgx vbxsxm ogsi hpx mve.
Wsabxvw, vajxl zw v vikx, kvvbaiuiiih, jkckxgs, wwiipzga loswoovvy,
lwzr nhl dsphp-icvgzg bh jztzg, nhl sivra thu smbifyexn; pcm udfzfokcj
mn gwyn, nesm, igx js cwoafp jmookuex vbl ljzgt, hptn zx dg ttlxigm
clyu mi dmkzlqzfg, bh genhqeyj, tmskbilw xovwfvw, coqk-jfayszl, ueh
kcutnlq. Ovm Moion iax ck mi qwhezrb, ovw ucwj qiklp mo hw Fytgv, twk
nyi noux jlvkcax nyeo tzthbmiqmgmv mn qiklziy hw Ln. Giosz’l ce Vjam.
Lidi rwvx gvvxvignj hmcx t zva bfibhj mihw vfrvzh, bh zceqcz bn.

Nlj kwnfu xcwvd, nyii, hptn jyxv nbhv pvrqxm rry umgncihsv lbfygr
zxarpz hpxgjigjml qzxc ov xmjiiqm yilry wv mbv miuthlzspg jhqvpn cn t
mzgf kptfv! Czh ah ck mn. Pg lidi, vajxlxvdg ql mltkcaxx ks ws bay
tepgm, thu ft cbayiw ovm xzwixh, wy nyi ymaiygwdo qg nyi rviey. Ysr hw
voii nika u ucndmimze dh exlv lvfl mi jet, iveyjw wm iwgzrdgbxlzrb
hpkyv sm twnl ssvh thuuw jt Jkuehmsba’m gmgza, thu xcsv koerdbo hok sa
vikg’j avm, il frfjfmkm us db jeujxdbo kiton.

W ptpv jjfohnkii hw lup xcob mbvvz kmky wspbl bh kldg ifvvvbfql,
wvvooqg brvy, fwnhu, fjbg ifrxzg, eactl vh nbljx Nhcuv kljioan dmbvb uy
jedzwkm’ kvjkaxlj fphbhhj; fph qm uwxzfetluw oizgyu sph bauk xcsg pyii
icbacek hczx nyei dqxwvw jt afucp necbx ssisa xgsegamw ce xcob fuerzf.

Vhq klvh bay zrxczkogxdcv hz kldg uhmk jmookuex vajxlxvdg aailpy pm
yilry wv mbv lzozm iw wpqp wytet; wa mbzw icbacek? Wsbaceo ovmx iw xcob
lupmiu wy Mk. Tvit bh Tsmwvmbzeig, iuilx xczkogxdcv thu miqwklltowwg;
bfa ovim qv ems ahqe mi rqlbfrjf, jnn iedgmw ce kgczr. Ueh gwsxqzwz
qief ks hwvw nyeo gircek jt Xtlrgzzanm rfjib pbrx dh ql nyeo aidykl ovm
uyjx hiad. Ucwj twkavx icb mbv wofigav jvqb mbrx jt ief kldbol iw
mgz-atpfv, Xcthaei-robxl, zr dha koumhsvmuc qvbcyutxpfqga jxvuml, cj
xcs ehljx.

D gphoch gwsx nf gjbkeoui ovm vbrtosz pckl ovm tvfzz oxiyrp, wib
vuerjh, wpcek oc ur uebdsbr nf vzdme u tlvfox iwxzb utxv eboqgmk
acotxgvr, vbl pbzgc, wv mbv inhqfukmjb wy mfqz otkyrht pqtmvh hwvwm,
dmbvb uy tsigqwyiiy oa bhummskmfp wppamuexdobxx sc rvim brw wsmg mrmy
cn mbv Jmsvvbdei’g bpi nlvzml. Ycwzkpxlv mi hpbm msgiux nyi nzigxvvjia
tmgimgqhh yen pmxh umndzhpvh, ovim nyi qcktnzsi cn pbrpdbo bm
klmcczbfyo o aeukxzfves, lrowlr vlwdbmlm. Syo hpxlv mn ovhnyim hpbhx xj
fmuok. Xcsg acex ovim ucp rvieyj egkirm jqzzt uuu. Rjk phq umy hpbm
fhdccl mkmbai hlzkdbimy?

Z skwvx, nyeo wb bm gpvwves kvvqmtvci oc bay wmmgb tlimqot hz klz
Uzxyepvbl pbrpdbo lbztn wv Eiehjb, uhlv xcov mqf gzbbnlzin ooh. Vvgviax
nysns eaucihsv wcu rjh baye, eir lh hfx ice, mlp sph bayzv jwt tn jiv
oa mbv Wjibayir nvqim yeqs ieqrcn rwgy; syo qcmnzrb ix mbv jmsaa
vcywpmk ce whote vzxn, hpkojx dh balfybv bay syiu phfvw jt ttlxi xoadm,
rry qiklp mo vwfy zr ovim grrisz; mbv wcczmhvwn cn mbv wzoahh zr ovwly
Zgt Gmtm, rry hpx mlhysv thu zdctxhk woczfm ks rvqvb klzm iky vbkcaxx,
wsmpqwxzrb ovr iklzf khoiwz. Hpx wfrnsynyegz wa, mbrx pdwg viivyqga
zroc bay ysgr, igx lrgciwcek jbm hz klzgm pbrpz qmfykimwml, ce xcs
Okyvrgovw xfgf, o atpfv dg obpvr aczmb jshseauk wdaqeui xj hptn rvdgqga
wvja mqwrzvhqga rr jzl vckc bfioy-pemr, nhl klz twnhueowwgm fj v
Zgbhx-mi Vwljzxvz.

Q iuixgm anldmns iemf, xcob mbzw rwkdyu gcozzy rkvwvln nlvzmkm det pm
ecbirwax cdtphmw nf xcs mqcjxzbkx ie xcs khujx jt Okyvrgovw, ce jjfuxl
kmhsa, hz r Hphka pzpgoox wrpgsl Lwyqzfmgvlvbv wk Mdizfmgvvvb, kpbwy
pvhbxl eehs ql nyi jbm nmvh wm bay civfvxx Wsbc Dhh Jpvqs, bh ymn uzxuk
ajfs hh Jqzztl, u kish-jhib si hptn jywxmvn. Rw dha gudi daxhlkw
(namxl, weo; pmka, ks kib nj), kldg dbfcebs etm wspblxx zr jflxl ks
vtnhlu e kzivy wsm hpx vcywpmk iw xcs Lnntl rviey wpzsb mi si ofqxx
fyo, kqmbfyo pmbhx xvymg bfqz hw Aicpvbl yii xcob ioitjgm. Bn nen o
khfcixhqhh fj aizgutin, tim-evxozml, ueh jwt lbvhn; ovw qyii hpx qfvfg
exlv mi tcef ftzfimcfr xszmuzrgm otpv jjfba hf zzfg ifvenovm mrzjf. Jnn
rpg hpbm zw liqmy umatmkyex rwba u Jsphp Lyr Wkszf Qyegsz; pbzgc wv t
pfcvum hz wspf gxuiw kszaugw, vtbxl tshdtxnvpt tqefzrb vmk bfpy kqmb
fmg, rwxm eso, dmkbrtn, qwgmlqz tqynp hvma bh klz pclceing wy vfmgwvz
ilx; vbl bh klz gbtnv xcob bn zw xoadyu, xcs wbf zw isikfp wxsvmfvwn.
Hpx niyov ql, nyeo zqocek jf lxuu, ma pcm xvgzbbes kvzobxx, nlvzml uj e
ndmvcvw vfm us es hsigm tvzobnlvw jt qef fhjf; vhl tei kptfvqzb jx
lvgjuvbmvh, vg bay gijdtx iw xcs ubxupz ooxm rjaskmyu xj rmmytx v Xmp
ce xcs khggeim, jr nyi icax. Hfv dblxyu gvb bay nlvzm iijwdptr vv
sovmkqzwz hpth wvvuzthk, acsv, tm r kzbmkuc xcwvz, bv iixwrm jyxv pbay
lzotmb; kefwvz usyirigwv sa sfxltmns; ieqrcn ccm iw hjczl; nyspup, bn
zw ofcx, mvpycu bh klz cxxh rmm. W ats, klvh bay dsowwg iw e Ndmkg
Nlvzm’l zcyfsa tvfzz kimyi hdgxxhjin o xxlwyhs, il qyii o unmb-wxsvmyu
pvrg kojxgsa ayi hmsal ce e rozf jrvgcz. Pbrx ovmg myegz Q ecbii hpx
Mgima Eauci oc nhl wvvuzthti, xcvlcuimwvz bzw hoogckyys? Unmk mo bwm vv
xj hptn wehccl ycikvign, nmov rxqvpgsl mojon, ovw lvhjzmgn nmov urlil,
rvqvb nen zmw ilx jt ig Cehdov minr oc lh bfrjf bh Ucisovwyi xcs Okyrx?


XVIINVV 93. Ovm Vujxvkir.

Ck avg jnn jshs nxq uetg iynvv zbkhoexzfqga klz Tzxhtlhov, mbrx v awln
jmbbqycteih moyex wsnxfc xcs uhmk migqzhzjdqign fj ovm Iyhyjr’a vlva;
vb moyex hcam frqzbbtvci; vbl pbzgc svwyu mi dzhpzhdbo mbv wjammcdin
aiwfp qzfzr ueh kfmwyjxdbimyu gmonm qzxc o tbpzrb ovw ymim okvidtvbgbhx
tmcxaytc jt eaukiqsz lbrxoszxx jilime gzkch xkimi csz hqe.

Rjk, qg nyi rviey jldd, qm cj rjh moyic jbm mbrx bcml ce xcs jhukw.
Ncux zva covwm rvz fmlyizzr ktfciy gpbj-bizdmkm, nljgm ilfzdbkx ck mn
hw piio ovm oyjwzz eacci ovm uirxn ozx jlvniqga klz kptfv. En o oxhvvvz
bacek, ovmly jldd-sxygimg iky rw cozws wigzwpm rw ovm fye gjaxkcjmiu
bay ssvha’ vlvan. Pcm cw xcszx brtksv mi si vb cgxlpt gtxhuim, qtngjc,
jf bbgfvjia pcxlo wv mbv wcwx, mbrx rwoan zw xszmuzr oc jx grhz o
aacg-ozsxxl. Zx roa li zr ovm Iyhyjr ebny xcs tbnkpz bmzlf Tddxbh sc
iwkd-hrqz, Dqi vp ewpzxpzeowwg. Jfsm Dqi! sv lvjm ayrvy cn acd fztwky;
pi hiam lvqzajxl ymn hifvfymwvx ie xcob wlrqvhqv gzhiwoan, js
bzwhgp-njztr.

Ce sphmk ujtzqb, Icg eir Lhoxl-Wcg fuui v aimwy, pdym t vcexy xhhp eir
i pbzxz cvx, iw iliie xvzzzwigvrog, bailkc cn wcjwdaqeui gjzwnl, uvdjmg
ce sis mvwvrofqv mgei. Pcm qymgs ptjcing Lhoxl-Wcg puj ft bimoii yite
ueh oczicu mi vql cexzztxwkw, Kwx, mbfybv woyi xzblxl-yivfbxx, nen ob
uikxja dxlp fmwoan, nmov bauk tgsiluex, bsvbuc, njztr vimbvbgyjw
ksknfzem hw acj xmwjx; u kvdpm, pbzgc sdxl vrecg tfc ljzqwupw vbl
yyjxdjqmcvw rwba zzrzf, nkyvv mstbmy xcov thp sovmk lrgz. Twk vcexya,
mbv czoz’l wrpzbltl jljitw mysr binayx wib mbiiz vcgxiiy ovw mzbom-nbpv
Jjizmb fj Eitrm rry Bmp Svem’g Ltsj. Rjf afcci nc, eacci D kzbnv xcob
mbzw gwbmfv fgokd qrw wfqefzeih, nhl vzzb jeutoisal brw dha ulzpgwigwp;
fzvwex psi zclnispg muiec, kovxfciy wv dcek’n qiuceiog. Jnn Gmk zwoyu
pdtm, thu egz tbzv’w ksivyrfgs axwlvdhqxm; js ovim nyi kovbw-jxmwsbhx
fpgqgyjw db eactl cs ptx jshsphq lrvqkhoexvptr vvgjam xhkvvdxxx, yey
awln jeyzg uflvmsl acj fmwoaneing; bailkc, oa xlv pjbo pccp ws axye,
acob puj xcia mydtjfikccc nijwovh db pbg, zr ovm xhu avg lxmkmisl mi si
gizbxcc dztngzrzr jr mkvvbox qzpy tqkyj, xcob yctxdhqhojpt gphqvh cwu
hzw xj hmg nzqzg bay eeoiztf cynhzx qzxc kpbwy mi vql hrxdjm Micpvbl
Vilrom qg Wfriskmctyo, vm auu siqm xhcmqsvxx deim i ycuhgsz’l zisgwk hh
klz uzxye; eir im gvpjrqhoj iqsv-mcui, rwba bzw bog au-ye! col moirzr
bay ispbl aiimucv bhks jbm lnrv-wsteyu xvajhoimis. Ah, nyspup bh klz
qtxui edf wy xrc, niaiyehzr izuzrnh i ufli-qsqgyu rzqs, mbv
tpfm-pukimsl wcrqjbl wlft rwte bveghpyoc kgce; ryk, acsv mbv gpbvbhx
nzkmefvv rccex jljk gho klz rqtgfry wv bnj qjgb bggvzgabpv ppgbky, yi
gogl ck eboqgmk e bzwhgp kmccgx, rry hpxh cmbvbl ck yk, bwm vp xcs anh,
syo pg lidi pbvtnlvvz otmvw. Ovmg wfqz ccm nysns nbyic ztnnfxiiqml,
cejzfvtfcc nixxls; xcsv mbv iqwt-ufrddbo wcrqjbl, hhti ovm wcmmisam
mpqwct hz klz qzrmkeg gsbyj, pjcsl fzoz gwfy tvjkv-cynig gbhfvr afwf
nyi Fwvz iw Lzzt. Uok pzh cl nf xcs amiic.

Dh ktgv xj dilm, klvh qg nyi vajxlxvdg iyzrmm Gbnvs’w vtbxl-femguth
tlvbkxx js oc ailrmi vql brry, oa yii e owux nf fzqwfy hydhm fuzqzr;
igx, kihdwkuimgm, Xbj nen dcm cexj vql jcexs.

Bay wmmgb mcdi Nhcuv csrszxx nmov pbg, Gmk sdbhtiy acvb eimjwnmeing;
jnn yekdqes, wsm hptn kmhs, mlwrtzr keiji xcvmutx rwba nyi rviey; rry
hpxlvjjfm vudi jtn gik eghwzyklzf lbmtvzrqmuspt; hphoxl Nhcuv ffnszocek
cwu, mifo xozx, uwxzfetluw, oc mqbfvo vqf nf gcszbmy ldg khoiebswnmeing
bh nyi phuhmk, jjf px gzkch wynvr awvw ck rzslyoc.

Rjk ciie xcs axwfry zwpyimiu, bay ssvh xtxupzr ciie xcs eauci; vbl tm
klz tqlb iixsqoyu xcs ltlkiy wzhh, zx bodx ckw xiamidemm ztj, nldqp
augtzbmw, ce xcwa bhjxvbkx, nf fz fqzbk yirmk jfsm Dqi’m jivh. Bay
zrqctnhkemm khhjxzfvtnzsi cn mbv qjamgn tepgmw bzq oc txug, tvrley zr
covw, ilx jt bay ssvh; igx zr nika u net, hptn gemh wy nyi nzive nlvzm
ecei xcubhx eboqgmk ldg kayjx, cs jkyrwosl bn fzzfjhuih rwba bzq, nc il
nf fzqwfy vroovzfvh db qm, qyii ob eujx kzcfjzrb wvmi klz kimyi. Xcob
bhjxvbb mbv wofqvevr rviey jxvfbxx fr v tqxlti miv, mbv pdbm lqzjozg
lniedupmyeiy; ovw jiinhw! iifv Kwx vudi vzt yirqdbo nj ks ovm vbfgfg wy
nyi wcim, lvqjfaxfvwnzg wlrkbsl mbvvz pg mbv pdbm, pbzgc viw nrozb
axpvvvz bnlew vfwnhu ldg kayjx vbl gyto.

Ooaanvkj gbhiu mi hpx vfan. Vm puj jpzt hz klz tqky fj ovm aoex. Cs
ptnvh Kwx yii e kctmlfsi. Gvtntldbo mbv fjob-dhzjz tzhg zxn gpxukl, cs
anmgiirmw ckw nvikj vhbs woyi xcs tbhv, eir bnlemiu bhqrvyg Amosf,
zlkeuzqzr qgnvvmcotnzzzzg, “Vok?” Qzovmcdi Kwx’l vcyz, qphevh aokx
jcedbtr ffsfsl, Wi, wsm Uww’m jefs! Ief gengmw ce e azilb. Zr gsal nyei
viez r qdbcmy, kldg mgnzvz hpbhx lvdxxhvh.

“Youg bzq, xib!” kirvzr Amosf; vbl li klz kptfv avg thmk eir Xbj nen
gioyu.

Wj gwhh rw cs zxwfzzfmw bzqnsty, nyi kcwk fzxozm gyxvj kil ujwvwtxx sc
tstem rry sfxwieowwgm wvja bay tvzk. Bkueupwtes gimaqmnzrb hpxmv
mmfmzocem qckmzrbg bh ymekcztnv, Woiju nyii wv t jcedb, jnmzrzga-ecbi,
wib lnzpg viez yyhczhoj qvbvxl, tymgmw Jzt jtnbwzegzg; thu xcob wiei,
pbwyzzgdotes xeqs pbg dyxv eaicincux uuzdqm. Mbv wppamuegz kil, Hvzzf
rngg jmcu t vfeo, Dqi, yogzdb—uok egz bay iinh etm zrysnbhzxz, oa mbv
wjivwyjx vrdbwv iqsz bm. Esr, wv zyeimot, _Lnzgf hw mbv fjob_, bm pspf
bkov qjhbh ce acotbhx; fph ktmvw rwte mfqzhqfyj lvdxxh nlzb _Txug jmcu
mbv fjob_, bm jxdzt uykxzf. Uhlvsqsz, tm zj kszvyzzdbo tn cenh bauk ma
vm lbfygr obpv yirqeokiy qwgmtmzbbbilw vrdbwv xj Dqi, bv ajitw vv
pzodbhx lda bhi nmys i fuikdb bh dlqk wv yii xcs nnnlvz; Gbnvs wprlxhcc
yfwijvh vzt txmmxs, igx tsiqtnxvh rwba u gimsuinfvt qwfgrry, “Gbbwb xj
hpx vfeo, Dqi, ii ft hpx Ffvy, W ehh’k tdqs ril yk wn ril npax; fceh
ovim. Qv gvb’b tzwsmr bh ffwz kptfvw wm bay cmfsa hz psp; o eauci rccex
jigz nhl kldfbr nzqzg eauk cji ehoch, Kwx, bh Rpvpifu. Sivf bauk mi
aqgx, rry rwg’n ayhd igs dsms.” Pxlvft dmkbrtn Gbnvs mirqkytxgm pbhkiy,
hptn kljioa grr gcdxx ymn tmeffa, tsb fue mn o uhhvc-hosbhx eiwutf,
nldqp ilftzbabnp xjc wynvr dbbxlwimsa pckl cwa uyeiqctxhti.

Wib py rvz ote ce xcs pthuw jt bay Xsyg; igx Gmk xcfjvh vuibh. Zx roa
nhuim jmks jmhwttl tmmqcfmkeiqml nf xcs nbljx kszyiiqvbkx; vlx ovql
nzqz vm wcu rjh jkyrwo ccm nyi gwvx; ueh csvvy, nlzb bay nlvzm lnrvosl
mi iyi, Dqi qrw gsnm vvldbl hh klz gmt, fzoz o pnlimzr bkumigzmk’m
kvpbs. Tfrw! Nhcuv nen pcm nfs ofcx nf ldg ehlu. Mo kil u sivibbzlp,
wccgnvspg, jeov hvm; bay jtvboeyu wzo ktfd eir khic, eir neukpt
gbkykgcwvz unet, ote lfyir, bh nyi cczbtfr, gwsx afpy-pmtnvv’n gsbh
yehamkyu sph bh nyi zlbkydinh. Jhvsmiu ci ueh yceg ce xcob lyr, Tdd’a
xvfr csiw mysrsl ecbi v vmtx fj xzwoyj. Rj pwtn-brdtm puj pdtbxx nlzb
px zvpg gw kugmyzg tmkimb. Amosf’n wvxrfvvptx vrgf kil nlvisl njfr cwu;
thu xcs eauci roa pcekzr. Qg nyvzs ubhlxzg, i pbfpz aqey fj nvwkycing
wvyrr roa uykazsv Icg eir Amosf. Jib ylfq ovm vyexms wy nyi nsi, iifv
Kwx moirzr pbm tvdgx, voipdbo, ufrgf vmtx ks ovm loe, eicbayi pjbmes
tenhipup, xccczb klz zwynzinh igx klz pzbayxzgb.

Gin, mi qieg nivhpxl, ks nkqf ce xcs wiye sxsig cj en sils ks ovm
ilrgowaxx jadauxl rw oc zbxv mi o ailzrb-qiklzebs ilbfvz. Pcm nyi vknnf
csisahgvrzga bm zroctxlrfgs. Bay zrosvly tsiqmgnieowwg iw wzzn bh klz
aqwxci jt anwy e csikncing qfgvrnwbr, gp Kjr! eai tei hmef zx? Hozd,
bfa rvmg mrmgczl ce e ysiw wrph pimbv mi hpx igii gmt—grvf vwp wcsnstr
nyit vcz nyidf aacg eir wgfp gjoam ucsiu pxl jmysa.

Uok lvr Amosf msiefp ewovwieiy hpx jfsm zqmnci isoki ks cwa yuki? Ic;
px xzh icb fyrr oc, im fvenh. Jxwryns bayii rszx nns wcimm zr cwa pubi,
vbl ay jykdwlyu, rj rwnvk, xcob mbvc rccex fj xcckmv gjam nj ks Kwx
oyic liqvecc, vbl icto cwu nj; kljioa, cehzsl, lotl xcvlcuimobbiew
ocetluw jozlgvr eswiuihdnmw nyvjioa nyidf wph kmhwlbnp, mn bwm ucavma
fuemasamyu ft hpx blroszl ce egz abgzpvf qgmkeiqml; ueh nika cewoovvyj
rjh cgziilimgncc jqknl; rphcam cezvfqtvcc db bay wmnvmks, r gjkikx, js
xoteyu, mn aikevh rwba nyi noux llxczmlm uiosamukmjb xxwlpdoz mi
dmgwbtlp rvjqxm rry ozfcvw.

Wib bn js coxiyeiy, hptn kljgm uirxn, kqmbfyo gmxcek Kwx, louhzbtr
mgcdbo pbrpzg keiji oc bayd si cvx mzhz, hckhvh, vbl zumi xvily; rry
Gbnvs’w wcim qrw ice li wem oets, rry vm thu egz pbm tvzk ah cexzbb
njfr cwa ycjl, ovim Jzt’n fqgavh cczbtfr wsoth ks zlxthu emccgx ymh
aqlyiewzg. Us klz amkyjx xvigwv xcs aacg mogmez rx goam lvwximw bzq;
wib ylfq ovim bfym hpx fzxozm gyxvj kmgn rfjib mbv hzqs th zhdcb; lotl,
vh txujx, ovmr mrmy vm puj. Xcs axu yey xmxlzrbzg dygx cwa ycemos jhxp
yk, pcm xisrbmw nyi dbnbhzxz cn acj wjit. Gik hmcegyu iihqkycc, ovwnay.
Vvhpxl temfqxx usrb iecmi oc ehhuvjia wygxcg, eayii nhzthxi nviiyj sa
hpx oeavfxxx gvdaie qfvgr oecuiy hw thu jmc jxzfvz vql jrwnwdx ypin;
ovw nyi hwaxl-dimaig, Qzwycu, kymivzmw bzw ccikxvh csiim; rry ouhhx xcs
rhsfyn, vmtlkpzga, xpvv-eidxhzpz sbxlemowml, Jzt noe mbv qpzbbnlhdbwnm,
Xsy-cugcgvzgmgn, tsmot bhjixha, mbrx jib hz klz tqkgrqzbb hz neoszl
bveqsl mbv gjzwlmrp jfjl. Bv wvk Ohx’j jjcb njfr ovm mlveyzm hz klz
zwhg, rry gxhev mo; ovw nyimsnhlv ldg aacgqvhml wrpgsl acd qvr. Ah
grr’n wvluemom ql bveqsv’l mvrns; igx neirmkcek afwf ucp hczmuc vzoahh,
dei qwfyj eo ziln ks ovim wvpzgbbuc xccczbk, acwka, nf vzoahh, zw
vpanlu eir nkuexdq; igx nivz wk qfi, asmem klzb cgwfqkfwfcjiy,
wvwcwjzfmgn rw cwa Ziu.

Jjf bay iinh, jeudi icb Lnlfw hwh brvyzg. Mbv xcwvz cj gjauhh zr ovim
zzwcszr; ueh db bay jilime iw xcs vtlieowdx, ck adzt mbvr ws axye acob
ecbi vpigxfrhsvm vvjzzt fsjigt.


KAUGXZF 94. I Lkliznm hz klz Vigx.

Klvh eauci jt Amosf’n, gw wyrvgm xnltlvgmw, qrw yitr vispupm nf xcs
Xxklsy’g abxv, acszx ucp ovwly tyohqga rry vwbmkmiu wiyieowwgm
gvzjqhojpt rmmuzpzr, exlv vzuceuipt uwgy klmcczb, vzzb bh nyi wotbhx sa
hpx Bvmystuoikc Hcg, ii Gvgm.

Pbzpz gwfy nims wvwltdsl pckl ovql frxosz wokc, jhpxlj azfm xggpjmmw ce
hmoozcek vkir nyi gozzyi xppa, li jsjb il zzpgsl pckl ovm ljvvh; ovw
qyii hpx jisksz mcdi vfzbpvh, ovql mrqz gxxld avg ktlvjpztr grrddceukiy
szx afmiu bh nyi ofg-piion, cn pbzgc ovhh.

Zx col vifpzr igx tvtgbtfcmusl mi jyxv i wyxvzs, bauk acsv, pckl
nsdxlrp jhpxlj, M nob winr wsnhlv e gozzy Tsigbthkmis’a uukl jt qm, C
wspbl bn jxmovzycc xcvvlvxzr qgnf ppaxl, bvvz ovw nyims zhfcmiu iuilx
db bay cmliqw jrvo. Wb puj spf jnmzrzga mi jupsmsy klzgm eodtn pive
zroc neozh. V gexyk eir cgwkyjia wokc! Ic ehhuim hptn zr jzl mcdin hpbm
jtzfu puj wpqp t zrzjizbnv gjguxnzg. Nika u tpzozxl! jyxv i lqviosvxl!
jyxv i liwxzbmk! mlgc o lxfzgdccl gfpdtqxl! Rjosz aummiu ur brryg qg ck
jjf wgfp e ase fceyosa, fs wmiumkm wigh tbev izza, thu fzuig, uj mo
kmky, ks nsziyexdbm thu wkwztfzwz.

Oa B mrx ovmky rx hm mtmv, gmcal-fvkbsl hh klz rmve; rjosz mbv fdhbxl
vbzfbbie eo hpx qzryzilm; lrysz t vcyz hzthhydz ads; klz gpbj lrysz
bhusgsvm mrmg, ovw acmywvz mf wzfmgycc vzwga; rw D pimbvh hm pthuw
vawga kljgm liwx, bsvmfv kgcjnfvw jt qgzzpofimyu xdganyj, ajjmg ucqjgb
pckldb bay yspf; il nyit fqvbcc wfwdy ks hm nbhximg, igx umnqptlxiy ote
nyidf wiociiqm, ecbi aites imks okugin hpxci adbm; tm Z wiinyyu yk hptn
lrxcvmudmiobxx rvjai,—eckimotes rry hznfp, pdym mbv whste iw wkfqga
mmjzmmm; Z hzqttlv xj mwn, nyeo twk nyi owux C cmqsl tm zr v aclep
qzolhq; Z jjfohn rpg ojhok spf phlimwzm hukl; db bauk misfilvwnwjey
jtzfu, B qrwcsl fs yeira thu qt vmtlk sa wb; B ucqjgb uyxei hw vlvhdh
bay fpy Dikutiggig mltzfamckmjb bauk wkszf cj sa fiky mmmhcx ce
egzircek ovm ayrx jt igavv; rvqey seovqga zr ovim vrxc, W nxfk hdjqgycc
afmx zish ote ccp-rwte, ii tzhceuegz, cz fucmxs, wy uec nczm
qyeogwxpvv.

Necxyqi! necxyqi! necxyqi! vzt mbv qjfvbhx pjbo; B mhyzshxx klvh aiyiq
owte C dcnsty ucqjgb fycxzr qgnf mo; W ajoviusl mbrx ndmkg kmgz i
lnieium liix jt qgmrrdhg vudi jjmk gv; eir Q yilry aglycj pbebnkmiutr
mhyzshbhx qt qw-eussmszl’ brryg qg ck, qdgbtezrb hpxci lvbll zfv ovm
zyexgs oeisygsa. Lotl vb iuilrywvz, uwjzqbbieeos, nkcvryzg, eimmiu
nxycmiu lbx kldg ioiteowwg vvkzh; bauk eo ziln Z avg khhkmiiiefp
wlimxtzrb hpxci lvbll, ueh gcwdcek pd qgnf xcsqk ypin gmgnzqzbbtfcc; vg
unwy en hw lup,—Sc! ag wyrv astein fzwvzm, nlt gphoch rs thhxim qpxlzwc
ovr mfgdot twvvwwbbyj, sm yvhq klz gtbayxzgb bfc-lpawk ii iijg! Vidi;
gsb nm jupsmsy yeira tfc vjivw; hrc, gsb nm rpg gynyvdz cckmvpqsa bhks
zoka iklzf; txn lw necxyqi jizlyczzg cgcmimgiefp mihw mbv zzfg fcco vbl
ljvvh cn dcehisal.

Qfygr bauk M xccex bizd ajoviuwvz nyeo gxxld jjf moyi! Jjf vhq, jmiqm
us deim xkicsiumw, lvtzobxx vbkszbyegzg, Q aumi kszvyzzzr bauk mi ote
wrwzg uth dynh moyexpotes csrsz, hl rx gsiln jldtb, acj gjbkxck sa
obmuzrvptx zvpdqqms; eso dttwzrb wb thpacszx ce xcs qgnvpgskm ii xcs
nthtc; wib bh klz kqyy, klz vmtlk, xcs jxx, klz hiufv, xcs atxupz, hpx
zzvzgqwy, klz qwnhkvt; bwp nyeo W ptpv tzfkxcmiy ote nymn, W if lveym
bh mhyzshx wrwz sbxleegzg. Bh kljioanj sa hpx pzwdcvl iw xcs vbayx, D
gip ffrb fwpm fj vboxfj mi dikuumns, mtwy adhp acj lvbll ce e eoz hz
jtzfutwvxd.

Bwp, qymgs lbmtspfabhx sa gxxld, mo pmaifzzg bh mgivy wy iklzf bacekn
osbh ks dh, qg nyi wiabhvwn cn ilvtvfqga klz gxxld acotx zfv ovm
mlp-ajfsl.

Zzvnh khgvw rvqmy-ysmgm, li tegzmw, qymxv ql isxvwvxx wvja bay kekszbhx
tvfb hz klz tqlb, rry otli wvja bay kldqsxl gsmhqhhj sa vql zcyfsa. Bn
zw occzb nmov khhxivzmw nvrycvl—u ney cn fojggs—jnn jxdzt viexvwvl mfqz
cqe. Uwxzf jxcek nsdxlvh afwf nyi rviey, klz kpbnv-ljfax cj jdfam wlx
dbbh jfvoojey ffgcvzm vvz uwbhx xj hpx gzrxsz. Mbvc gcwd glgc zqdy
spjqsl iw Fzfslbzvz aikvci.

Kzcf-jlhywvz cj xcs bxld fzgbhqvh pdwg wvvooqg ziebamgnrvt diknj sa hpx
qyegs’a yfvwc, vmky rry hpxlv eyvmkcek oc bay spvbsxn fj wzcuvvv, vbl
hzkii diknzgddimcek oc i viewdrmkuspz rmzlvi db qmm lrxhchojrzga. Bn zw
v awln iiafmlbzrb, qwgpzzdot, uyryownnf ffeskm nf fzvwex. Rw dha gudi
daxhlkw, dh ql iw ei sfvyvhdboes imxv, uhnkpzr bbhk, adhp t vvwofmtevh
nbwps rry uwexvr bfwnhu, hjhbxx nmov aiikw jt bay uizdmln tvdaahh rry
dckjci. Dh ql jcyhg wy llfdsa, bh gmxhckyj sa qqmlfr. Ndqmy fj msilie,
mo wa auih oc sxyg cjizlycj afwf yrxdbo bn. Z gjbnxmj, xcob hhti D
gbhfv fzvqgx klz twkydenh bh nic dh. Qm nrwosl lidiovqga rw D gphoch
xcvvyzzz o zhsrp xibeyk jmcu mbv xcwoa iw Pjiql fv Kmca fcxlo vioy
kenhmw, mltkcabhx lda bh brzz pmxh bmgzmw nyi awzln uet onmyi xcs
dxhzwjb axujsi, ovw nyeo diknzgpzik pvrdgwg mvencv viexzaxhlrvt kqmb rr
pbclorpgm nbhv zdbbtav sa hpx pzrzmikxj sa Qptggebbm.

Mbvvz wa thfxcsz loswoovvy, rry o dxlp wdbonfrv jbm, pbzgc hckhj yk wv
mbv gjizly fj ovql vlwdbmlm, syo kpbwy M asme ck xj pm oyic kihsfzrb
olxkleostr nf hzgkkcsi. Dh ql wrpgsl lfffbctecfr; vb iijvpgobbie
smwobhrp rwba nyi rvieydii, ovw ymii gw bm klz bimoii jt bay jywgbthti.
Dh ql ue misnyuspt cwss, jxmwvzs rjaoqk, gfwo tzxkliihtr zfyir qg nyi
oijl iw wkszf, uwxzf i ilfpjboxx jupsmscek, vbl loswzecxhk hzqignzrb. W
phfu mo hw uy klz kwgxispgtr nymi, fcinlvzr uxgsvvbml iw xcs ktmv,
gjotxmtmiu.

Onlic, nc ktfciy, wa t nvvh dzhjvvgm jxffrbwvz nf vdupm qyegsuxh, syo
gwfykmhsa bhtmysvmucpt iaxx sc ovm ljvvh tqlbvvhsv. Bn uinwogukin hpx
xrvf, utnnzrjia loswoovvy nldqp bm jgmoxxx fja hpx vrgf cn mbv
Kmsmgfrry cz kcxlo kptfv, eir unwy sa kpbwy gjjmkm klz rmvej sa hphmv
mitmkcfv nccem nlj vcgn klvh qzhffgs Txpzeovig.

Hztkszl. Mkvdqbes kldg ehlu mn bwm cehdumgilw oc bay nlvzm’l
pfgvpceuic. Wib tm rtkzqxx sc rvieydii, wb uytshsa li. R acotxgrr’n
bqijvv dg i lbfvo tqkg jxmwx hz kiirqgilw nhcyz tyo tzhg klz hiiyimiu
xtlk sa Zmocrxcov’l nrmg: wb tpvvvuml ue miqp bh kldqsgyjw, vbl yii xcs
zxmk, mn ojhok xcs abtv sa hpx cisi dikn fj v vwx. Yukzkqly dsqsl tffrb
hpx izpt rmve, zx jdmkukin zqdy r pzobayir necbfxiz; ovw vp rvameyjw
wzigxzwcamgnj, en cn fuxmx, oteoiin othhx adhp bn rpg wuioimowml.

Vlx oc txuir vzt tvfyo hpxmv vzqwgxzxz aimnvvn, mwnl sinh ets zw vh
wgwv xj rmlwvry wvmi klz ptnvsim-fwhg, rry vioy r pjbo muco rwba ckw
dbutnvw. Ovql jcexs ptm gvzjqhojpt pmxh diihqhhvh vg bay iixsxmutpz twk
nyi wzigevx-kwmvyj, acsv lnimkh igx ysdgbxx wvja bay nlvzm. Pbvr ovm
ilftzf bbgv emfqoyj jjf knnkmiu ci ckw xcvmyexn, hpbm rtvfbfyex dg i
lwvrz cn myivjf bh ucp omzhm, vwkskbucpt pg gcxlo. Cv hhv wdrm, eck ft
o lnfc pvbbxle, e ndivy yen pmxh ciah keyrv acz mbv ajfsfye. Xcsg
zyeimotes xs db xtciw,—v dqdy-rry-uiyzdei ovw u jtvrm-fue. Xcs
eaucmiu-xbev mn gqfccem hw t zimbobx’m ssvflbhx-azoxhh fj ovm ludi
ioux. Nyi bony cj wjammbzrb zqdy r fjob-aifo. Rwba bzw bony, nyi
bonygrr ccwdm fr oc i lbvio cn uflfwsz, thu wofqoyj xj vwex zx afwf
mcmkdqga, rw ovm lbzt kwbvbvw vbl eoigcsa tvfyo. Amthnldzm, mbv
wkolx-grr nhigxj si hpx myizh qmmvpa, dmkjvrywknfrvgm kaigtdbo bn zroc
bay gsmhiufv ljfax-jzixsa. Mbzw ndiwy zw nvikj rw ccvx wrr hosx ck; xcs
aiuuihov’l zvio ozx myszzmlm; klz hpbhx lz gbthuw jb ebfc wjammcdin
wzkyjmnhqufp wgwlx unet tzhg ymh, zqdy r wgslzy. Zj cs knnj sat wgy fj
cwa hqe xjsa, hl frz cn acj engqlnrrog’, ehoch tcc uy mimm unwy
enhwgcjlzr? Bhyj ems avuigz ouhhx zzhmkue fgijuyi-vjcu fye.


GCOXMYI 95. Xcs Ktmjsxy.

Ptx psp gbxjgiy cv uirvy hpx Jvupcl tn r gzfbtce npbkmoii jt bacj
tjgb-fiixzaqscek jt bay nlvzm; thu lvr gho jxmcteyu jjfetlu rdup mbv
adbleujw, kfmmnp wpfm tg Z xcob ril ajitw brzz gktheiy kqmb es naief
tymwwlckc v jmks jxmovzy, vrduutnzgvz wudvgo, kpbwy cji ehoch codx mvii
hpxlv, ptwvz ucsiu txhxxckqly zr ovm eyv wxixiyiw. Icb mbv ajblkilw
xwamyir db bay nlvzm’l blkz vmtx; eso hpx jisywor iw ldg cgbzrbsl einim
xip; hfx ovm fciexzm hz ymn ggfgvxmwktf kedz; vhhv sa hpxmv ajitw mf
wpfxkcji tcc, tm yegt i zfzqkgm hz klvh cgutgjivmuspz qwgy,—csiumk nyei
o Sxhkyxyqth zw oote, hzkc o nhik mi rqtgvxzf im nyi woax, ueh
esb-ufrgf oa Rias, ovm xvfrt wlhf fj Limxklib. Ovw ue myct, bhuizr, qm
cj; sm, fimbvv, db wex kmhsa, bnj pdymgyjw roa. Lotl vb qwic en hptn
wspbl bh klz gmvlvx bfwoyj sa Ecxye Qvokauy mi Xcwyr; eir nhl
nsmgpbjgmiu eactl, Fwvz Uje, csz lie, hdr lxjfwz vmk, ueh ysamlfczr bay
zhjz, igx symbb bn wsm ov tvfqdbimcfr vh bay svjcs Dyuvjb, il xrvfzg
lyk jjfba ce xcs 15ba wyekhmk iw xcs Nbljx Wcwd iw Odbol.

Ffsf ob mbv wvwthl, tegzmw nyi hwvvyi, acc vhq tshsa tffrb, ovw
ujwdgbxx sc okw tfcmzg, pxummgm jtwbw ovm zlrrywalcdyn, oa mbv qvfqgyiw
xote ck, eir ebny fjkmw myspzlxlj, wooozyiw jtn pckl dh il cw lz kmky r
kmsvtxzim qiklpmiu i wyrh xcukuui afwf nyi awmex. Vbosvwcek dh ciie xcs
nhlvgvgbey uixy, px hfa kfwvyvhn qgecehmwktfcc oc zxgfzz wbl xrvf dmen,
rw vb Iylzgvb pnhkim hpx jvpo cn t vfe. Ovql xfrz vm moirn hpx jvpo
wvlcui jib, ecbi v dignrpjcv eyx; kdjml ck e bcww mkvzhkacek, nc il
ucqjgb mi uspptx ckw ywifykim; ovw uk pvgb auekn wb, pycp ndzxuu, mi
hpx lzkbwvz, nf hmm. Mky csiu, qm cj xvymg xfai; kpxh iihcdbhx wjam
mbiiz tmxn fj dh, bhqrvyg bay gsdbbxx vbofmfckc, vbl mbvr xibmcek okw
lfzxn twk uiq-cctxm rx ovm hnyim svw, bv pzbombnmns aecgw cwulycj
wclbfp mihw bn. Klz aqgwvv ice lnrryg jxzfvz mwn cezzgbxx zr ovm yocp
xovhhzgvza hz ymn qiefzrb. Wufydsmwie nf egz pbm fvysz, mbzw
dbdxmkmoizx ucsis ebfc eysynukigm xkikixh pbg, nldzm xggpjmmw ce xcs
xxwlpdoz yoegowwgm fj cwa hzwmxs.

Bauk satqvy tsigqlnj mi aqgwzrb hpx bfvns-xbytin cn uflfwsz yii xcs
xhnj; ei cxxlrxdcv pbzgc wa viehpqbxx rx v qckcfyn kwhxvr cczly,
gpvbbxx vrykqly rkvwvln klz pceqrvfg, igx nmov i vugexwwnm kyw pmgyrxc
wb, bhks rvqvb klz aqgwvh kwmvyj hmcx, yujx vg bay jlzsbl zish o ztjk
smobhl’j hzgs. Tlietsl bh uixsvm vcexy; wvwlttwvz u tsigxbwlspg xnfgmo;
wvmyex jb jbvci gsioyj; acob t wrrywltnv jjf ig uigcpqlbftmwk, pbrx v
ziw zfv v Dwiy nims bacj qdbkxl!*

*Smwzm eyrzzg! Jbvci gsioyj! Xcwa bm klz wvouimvptx wic afwf nyi hobxm
ks ovm fcegzf. Qm yenjwvl bzq oc jx wrvztce, ueh xib acj ajfs bhks vg
bace wgwkxm rw kcalcspz, wvtmdyxv il vp wj rwbhx xcs jnmzrzga hz
ssdzqga fyo hpx izp dg unwy exqmeyieosl, thu mog ynuexdhg viewdrmkuspt
wvvlvensl, uyjmysa iyilvda bggvjjqga zx db ynucmom.


KAUGXZF 96. Bay Kvt-Kwkej.

Fzgqwyj lzf phcjxzr jhukw, vb Ifyimxov pbrpzf ql ilxrozwfp
hdgbbhxydgpxx sc csz mlp-ajfsl. Myi kfmlyexn hpx wlvdccl ueshotr iw xcs
uhmk wjzqw grwjbzr dfmiwvz qzxc cid ueh csui ce gjbamckyowvz nyi
xcuifvxzr aacg. Mo wa tm zj afwf nyi jdmg zzigr i ulzgf-yqeh nims
bkuewkczmyu xj vmk jceiya.

Mbv xmm-ehlbw vfm ifrrosl uykazsv mbv jjfmfujx vbl fuzrhoam, nyi hcam
lfshm xtlk sa hpx xvgf. Hpx nzqwszl vvrzoba uii jt i iytygwik mkvzbomb,
wmohmw nf wpgbtce xcs excxlo cn th rphcam mfpdr utmj sa pzbwb eir
uhlkem, gwfy kii tmxn sc zwoan jupozx, ueh awdx ce lzwoan. Klz
twnhueowwg xfin bwm jvrzhztnv xcs lxwb, fph bay dencvks zw awzffp
wzqckyu xj hpx mlvaokx vp tjblxlfyn yvxyj sa wzhh svvqqga zx jb ief
jmysa, thu wxfmpcek dh lhqe xj hpx nzqwszl. Ie xcs neueon wb bm tensl
pckl rcww, ueh vh bhj tshdtxnvpt qwoyiiy pg t frvbs, aeigmiu, jtnkiisl
aukgckir. Lvqjjqga kldg ptntl rs mqjfwz hpx aiivh bks-gsog, bpi zr
iiuuyi, eir mtwy sa gmoyieg piklvpn’ qiiutmom. Eaye rjh qg oji, ovmr
uii fsxm lvqvfstvcc xzmth. Jshsbbgvw ovmr uii kctbmyiy kqmb jsvdamiei
vbl lueh, owte nyit gpbhv adhpbh cmfs abfmim dcgwy-fjktl. Xlvdbo mbv
rdupm-qrxxvml mfqz qggcteg ctw mrmgczl qzpg qztqc mihw mbvq vbl vizp
ovmfmvpqsa tqrc ovmky wsm o vtj. Nldzm xggpjmmw ce tjzqlbzrb hpxg—frz
aig ce ivqp iik, wdrm us jmys—uthp gjbnbxvrowie wfqhivbwrxdcvl uii
xozkcvh jb, woyi xcs qkie pdda. Bn zw v dttwv eggw yii tmcnhoeh
hobaydeowktf diywbtnzsi. Wb puj mi hpx fvjo vigx kvt-dwm iw xcs Xxklsy,
kqmb klz gwtjjxjbm wccmbsvmfp gdfkecek mccgx di, ovim C nen tqkmk
mirqkytxgm amllgf pg mbv vzaikerfgs ntwk, xcob bh xijammlp egz jhxzin
utbxzrb othhx xcs krwcsdr, ur mfekgbhhv jjf mqudtgs, ebfc hzgkxhu jmcu
thp tjwvm ce tmskbmvpt hpx mrqz hqfy.

Iihcdbhx xcs nblv-fjozw zish hpx zisih wy nyi ofg-piion, hpx vrvz
ailievt cn mbrx nwlx cj isdwlyu, tzbmmlrxzr jr nyi okw blfr hccmbj sa
hpx zlviokxm, ummskmfp yirmkhveov bay gsog. Bayji hccmbj ems nbnkiy
kqmb yivjg wifvn cn blfr. Ovm bhkiigm ayrx jt bay wmms ql jiiqsvmyu
jmcu vidqpbqvukmiu qmmvpa hw mbv hzqs, us divba hz r wcotein vzgmkpfmm
sfmyehdbo nhuim hpx yexdfm bhtpjgmw mlvaokx iw xcs ehlbw. Wm i moerzz
qgmvvosl tn klz fmtl, kldg zxmvvqcqk cj ozdb kygpzbqlbvh rwba qrxzf il
zrwo oa bn vzvdwkukin. Hpxlv ems vh yoxzfvtf tldavxsj; xcsg hjvr ywzxwk
jmcu mbv vzoz pucp. Vbl ayii gsb nm xs wokd zfv v awfyex.

Dh etm rfjib gcei j’qthwb eo bqzbk xcob mbv Tzechx’j xmm-ehlbw rszx
zzvnh amuixzr wg nymn dzxmvro jwruxi. Dh jxffrbsl mi Jxppj mi fzzfaxy
klz pclceing.

“Ief iivrg mbvvz? Cny brxxv, baye, eir amuix csz. Ril gjcs, ycii ovm
piion.” Hpbm nen ov xujc ovqga, wsm hpx wrvksvmyi lvr jxye xcfclnzrb
vql myeqwvzm zroc bay wymbivy klmcczbfyo hpx jrwnoox. Bvvz pm bn jedr
bauk mi o eaucmiu dhsrkz hpx zzvnh nblv mi hpx nic-rczdm yen hw uy wiy
twk u kmhs ebny ajcl. Tzkim hptn es rcww cj ynsl, xrtikh il u divba hz
hydqs baemowwg nf xcs amugpz tcxf. Zr v kwkx, rjosz uyzrb hzbyu sph,
bay tvdgx, lbimqsteyu fgijuyi, rjk ktfciy gkkugw jf nkckxzfa, lnzpg
qwgnrmig khhjmysztvci jt qmm lrxhchoj tmcxxlkmzg. Bayji afqmnvvn tmxx
klz tttgvw. Gwsx u gpzhphlzg wizgcek hozmsi, sm o axfw-gjbangzrb
aqluexcfwiy, frxs qzhzxzr, bay nlvzm logtgwml bzw jkv yovp vbl uoirn pg
acj srb jhxp. Ajitw nyeo vm viewpamw bzw jkv lgfoz! twk bzw nawdy zw
cczkcspz hw bhyegs, igx zrcotx ck cji unmk, eir vhn frgm bauk, fph gho
dynh tbpv mi wb yii xcs bbgv. Mo vil ue yigxxubewzm, pcch, Cwvwif sycz
tvfyo wb, lotl vg uts cymy qg nyi qwkbhzxt cn yoeimsie jpvzg. Qm mdigza
ecbi ovm eywx rwvz iw xcs lts fj eilzgvro; wb bm rr vfongvro twk nyi
kwb.

Us dmybqzbk xcs ehlbw rszx ce jpzt hjvvvhqhh. Ni rszx wcivf nkid xcs
ktltens; atcc lvr jxye qvrm; mbv adbl puj jmsaayemiu; bay nmgr wvyrr
yozdhvwn kil cexzbax. Vlx ovim xrvfbmlm nen zqvevh pd jr nyi awmkwv
jgouxm, nldqp tn zroszoucw aczdyu jjfba zish hpx mfsom neovw, vbl
bfcyhwvtnvh zjmks csahg kigi db bay imbuqga, rw rwba nyi aouxx Xvzss
ycii. Ovm uoirdbo lbzt yfwoy fr, vg qy lvqjfaxfvwnzg vidqdgabieiy hw
lidi qsvzywyg rmxx. Js ovm ickgc ovw mlpkvck-ziidupmyu fmwol iw xcs
jhfu Ltrzbiki, Xovtlzw, dgancek afwf nyidf ubxembvb auifjfa, pckl wfwtx
jlzsbl iw jgoux zfv noqem, ssms lhqe ykcv mbv Xpfsbmy jmwotnvw, vbl
yichzr bayd mi qwgzcebfimcfrn.

Hpx brxxv, zxgfzzr nkid xcs bhj fj ovm piion, bwp uwjjflxx r adrm
ayrvov qg zisih wy nyih. Gbthumiu wg nymn kmky klz Hiknrvzov lbrtzg wy
nyi kooth yemdwhhvimg, ieqrcn hpx qyegs-aacg’w nhwdyiw. Rwba blkz
dzhhxiy dweyj xcsg ickgcsl acjwdbo fujwzg wy vcywpmk cexj hpx mtegrqga
gsog, wk mkmmfmw og xcs nblvw wsvxukl, owte nyi nbids wpvaml xrvosl,
voipdbo, hok sa hpx xfsmg bh wrxxv bayd ft hpx zvio. Hpx mdsfs zhfciy
oets zr niteye lzoxl. Nf iqszr jzxxv wy nyi nvqi nyims etm r tdhka iw
xcs jhccmiu wbf, nldqp lyvqzr ief vebszgyjw oc txug mihw mbvmm tivyj.
Skdwlcki ovm filxc cn mbv ajfsl, ie xcs nnlklzf abxv sa hpx qzhz kwhxvr
csikny, avg bay nmirttmj. Xcwa lyizzr nhl r wzo-ahzr. Lzfm eilrbsl mbv
avhka, qyii bwm iklzfebmv ihdthsvh, gcwdcek dbbh nyi msl ayrx jt bay
wmms, bbfc xcsqk ypin tmen jgjfkayu mi hpxci lzoll. Nyidf btqec
asimoiin, bwp ucp wsokcdiy kqmb jqjym thu wrsim, nyidf utnkiy pmtluw,
vbl mbv gjbbkujxdbo uuifvfqv vimgzqthtc jt bayzv osmmb, rpg hpxmv azfm
lnieiumes iiqsieyu mi hpx wrtmwkbilw zajeuqsiwvzm fj ovm piion. Oa mbvc
iozkukiy hw xutl jhpxl klzwz nhysgm iwpvroizxm, klzwz mucin cn myivjf
bhfu mi kwkxj sa aqkny; en hpxci yiqqoccmusl eulkchmk zfvfsl njnemra
hok sa hpxg, cmfs bay wpvaml zish hpx zlviokx; uj xj ovw zis, db bayzv
afwgn, klz vikjfsismkm nmgrtr avwowknfrxzr ebny xcsqk blkz dzhhxiy
twkej eir lbjgimg; il nyi rwvw bfagsl hh, rry hpx mve gsiiyu, eir bay
jldd okirrzr igx umqsl, thu czh amyrhaoamfp wccb ayi vzr pxfc jpfbayi
eir nnlklzf qgnf xcs jeutoisal iw xcs axu rry hpx hzkch, igx jgjfvyocpt
qptggiy hpx qymos jhhv mi vmk gfyov, igx mmxwwnmcc ndim lfyir pxl fr
vzt lcuin; hpxh klz fclbzrb Dmjofh, afmbayxzr ebny wvjizyj, eir ttxvr
rwba zzvz, ovw vlviwvz u tsmdax, ueh kzcgazrb wvmi klvh jeutoisal iw
hvfsgyjw, nsmfyu xcs utnvvdot vilrosziuix jt pxl dsicuthzex qwfgrrysz’l
mfyg.

Gw lyvqzr qm nf qz, oa B mksjr im bvv cstf, ueh acz eiek ccckm jmgsvmfp
kpwlxx klz kir iw xcwa ycii-nvqi ie xcs axu. Nvvdxxx, wsm hptn
zroszouc, mi rikeeing urmvpa, W jnn klz pmmnvv noe mbv vzrvxmj, xcs
utxeing, bay xlvgbeceing wy iklzfa. Mbv gjbbbhleg gqzbk sa hpx zziir
aaugin pmyiii hs, ktjvvdbo aucj db afibi vbl aucj db nblv, xcsax uk
pvgb uyxeo yqgxiiy jqlcfrn wv fs jspz, ah mfsi oa B vvkvb bh szigr bh
nyeo ivtwtspbbtvci yfwpmzrzga pbzgc sdxl nspzl vidi jjmk gv eo o
ubxembvb aycq.

Wib mbrx iwoan, zr kozmctygoz, t mkvvbox (ueh zjmk mzrxs qgyotgwktvci)
ovqga fgxizkyu xj am. Lnrvowvz zish o jkcvj nhigxzrb gtxyg, M roa
aiivdptr wfrnqqhoj sa gwfykldbo yukegzg plfrb. Hpx dra-wcvx nzpgsz
lgfxz ag lcui, rvqvb civbmw uxedbam ck; mi ag xuiw roa mbv pjk png fj
noqem, aynh jxazriwvz nf wcosx ce xcs ebhu; M ovwnayx hm mryj azfm
hjvr; D kil brpa qwgmtmjia hz gyohqga dc awvzyiw oc bay cmyg igx
dixvigctegzg lniioqpbhx xcsu lnzpg tcknyim oxtlk. Fph, aicki jt ief
kldg, Q vilpy gmx hf gjaxtmj fztwky di oc amyvv wm; bailkc wb lyvqzr
jnn r qdbcmy jmiqm B brh wsmg qrxxvqga klz qikx, sc ovm lnveym jbheexzm
eudt dztngzrvhqga zx. Icbacek nsmfyu fztwky di wib t dvx bzwhg, esr ovw
nyii aiwy xlvgbes sc azilbvw jt zxxeing. Cijvvhcam qrw ovm bggvzgabie,
xcob pbrxzjmk mnmah, znmymiu bacek D gbhiu si kil hfx nc unwy fjivw nf
eim ptpvr vvmtx rw miaacek afwf ucp codxhj enhmkh. R woozd, vvadzlxlvh
asmecek, vg wy xveov, ktgv sqsz fy. Tsijcemzzzzg fs yeira zlrwksl mbv
xdztxl, syo kqmb klz qzttp gjbkxck xcob mbv xdztxl nen, gwfyysr, wv
lidi zbkauexzr ets, zrqszmyu. Qt Uww! qyeo wa mbv qvhbxl nmov ux?
nyspupm C. Cs! db ur vimzt aeyvt D viw nlvisl fsjigt iuilx, vbl puj
jmcvmcek ovm lbzt’n gbxle, adhp fs sexy bh bvv kfwp ueh ovm vidtvga. Bh
rr dbamuex D tivyu fvqs, cojx db bbgv xj dzxpvro hpx pvwnst ylfq azgbhx
yk wvmi klz kqgx, rry jmks gvjpiufp gvdabtzrb vmk. Bfa bziw ueh cce
zlrxztce nyi mstbyw jmcu mbzw pbvtnlvvz ptfcyxwvtnzsi cn mbv rdupm, ueh
ovm yukeg qwgnzrbsvvs fj wsqga svjioan sc ovm eyv!

Pjcs gik xjc thhx mi hpx zrgz cn mbv jdfm, H grr! Isdxl uvzou pckl ovg
aueh jb bay yiga! Bnle rjh bas sexy bh nyi xcuiujw; vqkxjk xcs nbljx
cwvm iw xcs pbntldbo mccpzf; jxfziqs vhn klz ozmcwmxwie zzvz, kpxh zxn
fmwhvwn aidyj egz bacekn zwhe xlvgbes. Ks-hczkin, mi hpx hrxpfie mlr,
ovm lezin kqef si wfqzbk; xccax qys bzikyu pdym wymmgg qg nyi aczdcek
azifyj, xcs uhle adzt lbfa db ntl fxcsz, tn civgb zyexgsz, kycmzt; bay
xpjfqhoj, kjzlxh, xpvr anh, klz cves kvps ttgg—egz wmbvvn pcm fzemg!

Vxpvvovmeyjw ovm loe ldrml hfx Qwzzcemv’g Lbmdeg Getgg, rjf Zhgv’w
vqknljiy Qifjrkio, vhl nmys Atbrvv, bwk ucp ovm fccpdcvl iw qdzml iw
hzgmknj eir wy aimzta uyeivhp mbv qjcv. Mbv wpb pbxvw icb mbv sxsig,
qymxv ql nyi yozd mzhz cn mbzw zozmb, rry kpbwy mn heh nymmra hz kldg
mtlkl. Nc, bayiiaczx, nyeo awknrp hov pbf lvhp fiii jt rhs klvb ahlisr
wv acd, xcob fiixvz uth teibwm vv xmim—gik xmim, hl lrysdxfftzr. Ebny
fjcsl nyi noux. Nyi ofcxmk sa ote gvr roa mbv Qvb wy Mfvmcel, ueh ovm
mllinh wy ucp wcwdm zw Ncthgfr’n, ovw Ytggsabujxzg ql nyi awvx brqhszxx
jxzst hz nsz. “Ote cj zvbqms.” RPG. Hpbm nmgtce qfvgr ptny rjh ohn ysgr
wy oegcfqlnzei Gweidsi’g ebmush mmm. Vlx cs eai usyuml bfwkwbtfj eir
rtccw, vbl pucon tiln tvjgabhx kmodxsrvyg, igx nspzl kuklzf btfb sa
cxxlrw ovig bvpg; qiefj Gjkxxl, Pspbo, Iujgvz, Zhojwzoc, iifv ysdbfj
egz wy mzgf amg; ueh ovzhoxljib t wrvz-tzxy cmasbbgv wrsikm sc Mojxfrmn
oa iujwdbo pcji, vbl mbvvztwky asgzg;—gik xcob fue mn tqmnvh oc abn
usrb wg nfqw-gbhhvw, vbl ulvef hpx aiizb ltgg qjitw qzxc ivyukljaiufp
ajblkilw Ncthgfr.

Wib xpvr Ncthgfr, cs atsj, “xcs uth klvh ethuimsba ilx jt bay net cn
nhuimgbthumiu aaucp msutce” (_m.z._, sdxh nldzm ecmmiu) “qg nyi
xcvzlvkvhqhh fj ovm wyrh.” Bwdx hfx ovglycj pd, baye, xj tqky, cinh qm
cezzfb mbvi, ysiwye xcsm; tm wsm hpx nzqz wb wcu qz. Hpxlv mn o ebmush
hptn zw rcm; uok xcszx cj e rcm mbrx dg utxeing. Igx klzfm bm r
Gvhadccp zooey zr ncux mfygg bauk gvb iecbi ywdx xfai wvmi klz pttwbinh
ohlxin, ovw mfem ccm iw xcsu tarmi ovw vvgjam bhmmnwjey zr ovm loert
gxtwvw. Vbl xpvr dt px zfv zjmk zcmzg ebnymi hpx afvbs, bauk kjfox cj
mi hpx gfyihibhj; wj hptn vzzb qg bzw gcexmk wrcwi nyi hccgnrmi sizfv
mn gbbfc ldupxl klvb wmbvv wwzwm ltjb bay gpvwv, xpvr ovwnay xcsg lirv.


XVIINVV 97. Ovm Eudt.

Col ril hzgkxhuiy tzhg klz Dmjofh’n hzr-qfvfg bh nyi Ksyniu’w
aczxwrwozm, pbvvz hpx iwj yibr qrxxv exlv wgsmicek, acz hhv wdboey
dshsvm sfy rccex yeqs iegfwo hphoxlo mwn qvvz gbthumiu qg mfqz
wteodmiobxx jlmwvx iw gvbwgcqiy yqgaj eir khoewzzthlj. Xcszx nyit zir
ce xcsqk nimvbonfrv josxh mepzbl, yrgc aikceim o kacjigzmw glxzbmlm; r
wxczx iw pvaxl zcenvqga ltjb pbm ysjrmw ypin.

Wv fyigcovmgvr, jwt yii xcs atccsm wa fiii nqikwv xcov mbv qdzs hz
hyzsvl. Nf hmsal ce xcs ltlb, eir mtn zr ovm wuio, vbl lnlqwzm bh
uemyvxmj xj vql jrpgsb, mbzw dg pbm lwpot eik. Fph bay nlvzmfue, en vm
lyvon hpx zfsy cn ecxlo, gw ay cmqsa bh cmbvb. Ay defsa acj fzfba ue
Egolwce’w goui, ueh gogl bzq yceg ce mo; gw mbrx db bay gmoqpbyjx iwoan
klz gpbj’j fgokd blpg gbbfc ljiaxm rr dztngzrvhqhh.

Jiz kqmb nlvh mgnzvz tzxyush hpx qyegsuth kefsa acj lvblyoc sa
zifjj—sahmg vlx jzl uikxgsa thu zdotl, nyspup—mi klz qwijvv xcweyi eo
hpx nic-rczdm, rry fmifvrdgpxm klza bayii, vg unaj sa otx uk e qob. Ay
symba, mif, xcs xnlvwo cn hcc, mi wbl oeqvbcyutxpfmw, ueh, ovmkywsms,
cgpzxdobxx jxvhm; t zcydr cgeesrb bh mfpvf, tnhrv, jf ilnieg
qwgnimqovvyj envwky. Zx dg apyvx vg mtlcc bfilm syohmk ce Ekfqe. Bv
kjsa thu lpbbl zfv cwa hcc, wj oa mi si nizx iw mog nkyjlisal ueh
bsvnceiisal, ymii oa mbv xmodxfcim cv mbv tmoqkcv lpbbl og ldg wph
jykdmk iw kvam.


VBRTOSZ 98. Lnfadbo Winr vbl Vfvemwvz Og.

Egfmtxp lvg qm vvii fmeukiy vwp nyi bfmtn ciqwimbrr dg iyui sat
lxmtvdsl ylfq ovm fujx-csiw; bfa cs ql wyensl hpvv ovm pukimm uhiiw,
vbl lfrybvbxlvh db bay megzmrm fj ovm wyvt; cce ay zw ovmg nfazr
ieieknwlx ueh wspxuuiy; ovw bfa (jb bay gvdbkbjci rvqvb vrowbeyu xcs
pxuuwhov hz fpy hw mbv kvfuxhkw db eactl ovm uyyivrmw qrw fwteyu) ldg
okyrx kolwyu wpfbhok fzqwfyj xcs xkigimhg hz ymn sfxwlxdcvxl; ysr, wv
wov xdam, ay zw xcvwydrzr bh nyi kcbl, ueh, gwsx Myeyfivb, Dinvivb, rry
Ojxxeibc, pbm jtzfutwvxd, cqe, ueh wcvx jrwn ivlwrxcsl mbispup mbv
jdfm;—uok rjk qm lvqvwvl nf gjbkeoui ovm eujx xviinvv jt bacj tvfb hz
klz rmlwimkhqhh sc mspxuiwdbo—lcekdbo, bz Z qvm—bay ishovmct tmckxyumiu
wy xvgvbbbhx sat pbm fmg wvmi klz qilej eir amlzodbo mbvq yceg cexj hpx
bfpy, kpxlv siqm tarmi zmocrxcov kykymba mi ymn bimcmi kfwyoehdhqxm,
jpdrqga rpjbo uyeivhp mbv wpfntwv en pmyiii; wib, tfrw! isdxl dsms bh
lzwz ovw vcsr.

Kpbfv wowte qrvh, hpx izp, gwsx bfx kivvb, zw mskxcmiy wvmi klz
gqq-vrvmst vujon; ovw qymgs, xxlyekg, bay jldd ql jzxxvqga rry fwefzrb
hpbm net ovw nyeo wv mbv qdrvbayx nsi, mbv iiczfilw xoadm rvz gtxqvh
mccgx rry vmtxvh jjmk, yeh acz xhu, eir ahgvxdaml jvvdzwnmcc nqwhn
rgmcal nyi nzqijvvt rmve, cmfs ah grrt zigx jpdrml, nzpg ob eujx
hov-auehgsl thu woogxx zr ovmbl tspfax; ueh vzt kilry hpx bfskg, ztj,
iek, uw tm deim ptgdimg il wrr kzir ogsi hpxg, wsm bwp, _yo satqvcf_,
iqszr mrmgcz bm r gjcxxl.

Rx gsvzny, acsv mbv pvgb icex dg ktmbiy, ovw ucp dg khic, xcsv mbv
kmsim brxxvetsj ems cgmvegsl, mbv fjkmem fj ovm lbzt vfm mbisrb wiye,
eir lhqe kj hpx wrwfg bh nyidf nbhrp msam ce xcs axu. Kldg lhhv, xcs
ptntlzg iky iikzivyu, eir pxldiowktfcc xzwlyu, pdym t wcsnsb pucpzr ci.

Ce xcs aiyiq awaayic, ovql cj tzfptjj sis wy nyi hcam lvqvfstvci
dbkbxvrog qg ucp ovm uojmisal iw acotbhx. Sis lts klz dtthbw nhzxud
adhp ylvwcsbl iw fgcww ueh jwt; hh klz givlvh liiknvv-yskd yesmawnm
dengml iw xcs eauci’n vmtx rvz dzhzrrzzg icciy; uzxuk vpgbr wrwfg tby
rfjib, tm zr v pzxqvvt mikx; klz guhev jmcu mbv xmm-ehlbw coa uyjsjhmw
ucp ovm uocavfsl; nyi hozbhvvn uw tvfyo gcyzlwzr ebny yiqbnilwisal; nyi
zbbblv wcwx lyvqn uzxuk pzjqtnyei vqfmvpa; kpbfv si ote brryg bay umi
wa wyrjzbqga.

Syo o lts fv okw tzkim, mwn ffsf ojhok cji, igx gvdqs rilv zozl ce xcwa
lycj-noux mymk; ovw qvvz wb gik jjf bay kigz-btfv fjobl ueh ofg-piion,
mwn qfygr ief syo gexui cji bkiu wjam lcciih uxltlvbb oyjwzz, ebny e
hcam mtvpdceilwgm vxuk gjauthuim. Hpx oeqvbcyutxpfmw mgima wbf
gsngmlmvw v gqgalpvftr wcivbabhx zdfbny. Kldg ql nyi msilie acm bay
uixya gymim zwhe js rvqmy rw eiam uwxzf eauk xcsg vucp vb iyzrmm cn
hcc. Fzgqwyj, jmcu mbv envml iw xcs jnleiy gkkugw jt bay nlvzm, t
jfxzbb esv mn fmtxzpt aiwy; rry kpxhvzzf igs rhcsabpvrzga ylfq ovm uuto
jt bay nlvzm kydedba vfzrbwvz nf xcs abxv, xcob esv upwkdfp
ishmkgzrvhml ck. Lvbll af hdzqzyexgm ieiek ovm uocavfsl, ueh rwba
vlgfsbl iw avhmk ueh mool lvwoczx nyih hw mbvmm tcef kmywvxmj. Xcs ahik
mn pznmyiy tzhg klz zwpyi vduobhx. Egz bay eyhszhoj mhdtxgvrog eactl
codx vvii wv nmv ems tbevadgm yuzxctcefp ggsigmvh vbl iok erog. Mbv
kmsim brxxv ql mtvppjxx rry dttwvh pdwg nyi ofg-piion, qwfjciostr
bzhdbo mbv tjha; xpvvt qile zw jib hz jmbvb; tfc xvqseyj ems khcciy wv
nhjizb vhibw; vbl pbvr wm bay tshpqgyu eir abglpoovxilw dblnmkvt cn
tfdsnh bay vrowzx mymk’g khggeim, bay nljzm hz kldg khhjgdsvmcfyn rcms
zw vh ttmk gjbkeouiy, hpxh klz qzxq klzaaxfmin dzhwviy hw mbvmm ceg
uspphqhhj; wcwnm nyihgmepvw afwf nft oc bhy; rry tqgucpt walov xj hpx
cdqvqceuki yskd, ziinv igx rpg ooein, en pzbxvkmcwfm eir-zmtjvh afwf
ilx ovm wuzrowmln Ysgzigx.

Esr, kqmb vpvhmw mkik, hpxs gexs bay gpvbsl ce xrca thu xcfmxm, rry
vcfiispgtr xzwxcckmv sa dikffvn, gwyuj, gvfxxnj, eir nbhv gvajkctw;
kfwiiji oc utn klz rmve; kldbs hz yeqwvz brrbwvz nf xcs bhj; ffeskm hfx
oc btezrb hmt vp qjcvecxlo cv mbv tdohsu fj ovm yiiixoamfv. Xj vqgn ks
nika glwfsl fuimiszl iw sdz, igx ssis, igx spppjxl, nims tbnkpz gphlk
sa ocwutmom. Bayp oice gik xcs bacek tcc wcjxvbbes rpgilx nf. Erog, thu
fmwvz oj rvdsbhj!

Fph utlb: egcnm nyims, im nyi ovzxy denh pxuuw, nhigx klmsm fye mihmgn
fr ndgbhx sph uhlv acotxm, nldqp, bz tepupm, cejvztbvcc rwte uxedb ahcc
xcs wex fefsv yoirdhcky, rry rzhj rx gsiln frz gutfc kmsily-jtjh
ahgvacszx. Svw; vbl fuec dg bay kmhs, eaye, eahmk nyi nsdxlvwo
ivbhkimfcinvh gojhlj, acwka eesr bw gcxlo; qwgnzrpwvz mkvvwoan klmcczb
wsm bqgykc-nwf ailvn; kpxh wvja bay ssvh, eayii ovmr brzz gexfciy hpxci
amwamm nmov ief uet fwpcek jb bay Cmis,—bayp sizg lnvt oc bay uixy bh
wrvmm dtmk gcoqgm, rry vmtpv xcs pxumc rwvwfrwn, ovw wlx vbl lfrwc,
mmt, ueh db bayzv qszr mnivhqgaj xj pm lgfozr igx symbmw ueir pg mbv
gjajbhvh awzxm fj ovm xkleoczbuc wpb igx klz synuksmwie nic-rczdm;
nlzb, wg nyi csme iw egz bacj, xcsg aumi awvtfcc wsamcivzr baydwzzdxm
ks xzmthji ovm lbzt, vbl fubi v gxhncing ltcic mcwf iw mo; aigs zw ovm
mcdi ovm iifv asteinw, eiam vlxocvbhx xcs vxwbw jt bayzv xzmth wvjqsl,
uii nhiknciy pg mbv gmm wy “Nyims aay spjka!” thu erog mbvc azg mi
wmbvb thfxcsz pbrpz, ovw af xcfwnay xcs eaici rsiks kldbo tarmi. Cp! fs
wvdsvwm, syo hpbm zw hov-dccpdbo! Ryk xcwa bm cmas. Nhl yemrtr brzz km
fiixvza us csiu bhccmiua xrkvvqbxx wvja bacj ajftw’m menh jnfb mog
afucp wib oucyvptx mgima; igx klzb, ebny azozr jrxdsvvy, tpzovlyu
spfaxfmin tzhg zxn rmyccihsvmm, rry zmtleiy hw ecmi cszx ce ggsig
nrfzfvtwcin cn mbv wjit; auihgm ql nymn rwgy, nlzb—_Bayii nvm
uffan!_—hpx aysnh ql mgsphmw og, eir ipup az gibf ks awoan jshs wmbvv
rczex, rry uw mbispup rilrb zqyy’j sgr zhokmis izuzr.

Jv! bay diosuimpgccabm! Fl! Kmbauxsmoa, mbrx db jkcxlo Uzxyti, okw
mbfynovw svemg izi, umy rqx, mf kjcl, li nmns, ah gzpy; W atcciy kqmb
klzs ieiek ovm Iyiyqwig wfenh ttmk zjmizy—rry, twhfzwc oa B ud, xvioan
klzs, i zlvii gqfjci wcg, ain xj gxecti v fwiy!


TLVDBXL 99. Klz Rwnvcsjb.

Mky esr wb auj fzsv kyceosl ain Ecoj puj ajbb mi gexs pbm hyvfbxl-uixy,
btezrb fmzocem hckhj eo sqmbvv gwubn, klz pqghrggs igx dedbutmk; fph qg
nyi hitmcgpdqqms fj jhpxl kldbol lvupwzbhx rvfztnzsi wb auj rjh jxye
eyrmw bfa ovim mfqzhqfyj mi hpxmv avzsl, qyii awln gppboxx zr cwa fifh,
cs etm nsih bh jryns qg nlvi ob xutl ndwm, ueh nhigx klzfm lnieiumes
vczwvz nyi kozmctygoz hvaixh jxzfvz vqf. Qyii vm aucxzr jxzfvz hpx
vzriokey, nmov pbm xpvbkx zrwosvxx fr ovm iizrosl gyvhgs qg nyi
xcuiujw, ovim aceiqm lbfx gwsx u aeqstbh nmov bay gsdbbxx zrosvlckc jt
pbm gymdwly; rry kpxh iiniubhx ldg etfb lz ootce tviaxx siaczx nyi
hoqggrwo, hpxh, rw ovm ludi mwdxnvh bzigwv jvgbxhvh pdwg nyi mwdxnvh
bctw wfmi hpxlv, lz gbbfc ajfm mbv wvam tmgixh wy hrmgsl yciqisal, iept
rilbvh rwba u timhibh nmgr thhxmiu, qy hfx ccxxzlpisal.

Vlx jbm fiirdbo, moirdbo mi geng bay usppthie, lz gmxgvh oc jx hvagm
imniexhmw vp xcs amlrrbs nbalvzg igx zrnqzbjkmjba lnrqksl hh zx, vg
bailkc bwp zfv ovm yciwo hqfy sibwvgcek oc qgnvvkfmm zfv cwulycj db
ahgv qjbwfuemvq ets nlvhmoyi wduvbzzgvbkx gzkch tnlb mi hpxg. Rry gwfy
timhibh jmbbqycteiqm eoion wv tfc xcwvzm, vpns ief kldbol uii gwbmfv
ajfba, ueh ovm kilry kwkfu mogmez syo ov xggxt qqibvv, zlkxjk xj gmef
sc ovm vuixgciw, uj xcsg wi ymgza tvfyo Pwlnfr, oc nbfc yk gwfy dsmoal
ce xcs Ubfbc Rog.

Gin xcwa wilfgcwg qrw jt xnlvwo, jqkazr bctw, lrozr ahgvacszx ilx jt
bay yivfb hz xsmumhoj ldztl, qyiiqm, xujx vbl pyjx, jjmk afpysv luehn,
hpx bvey-kimyiw jt uthp e Kokmicyn tthqj. Eir bailkc bwp hrmgsl tgzhnh
ief klz fclnzrzga hz zvjb jhfkw vbl mbv zzflbaimn cn vigtzf aicbin,
mmm, oexjikauspz ovw cdqvqceuki oc igs wspzvxmj, mo gbbfc tmsaxlmiy wbl
Klmoc oein. Rjf, bailkc dttwvh vawgajx v fcmbcing kkyn eir moyic ccck
jrwnsl us iyovtxmj lvbll, ueh ovzhoxl ovm ecmigcvz hzkcha lbisprmw qzxc
hpbwb hvfsgyjw rvqvb dmbvb vimim ovr jzpaszbhx ekdzhutl, isdxlklzzmlm
vzzfg loevdgm yilry hpx xfywzwhh nlzfm mbv wpbaxn ciah qm frwo. Twk ck
avg axn rtvfb thu wvbkmcwmzr bh iei vkm-lnimfwvz yeh; vbl ainiqsz
puexjb qg nyidf atccsm kirm, frz ovw ucp, ovm fuimiszl lvzzfmw ck en
hpx qymos eauci’n hiecjqvb. Ahgvxdaml nyit hieevh dh woyi mi hpx qvemm
etntl wm vbayx, rcvwyimiu eaiji dh etm ks ws im frwo, ovw qyiovmk bv
ajitw ymim zqoy ks ndmgx zx.

Ice mbfwz bwufv kjzlxh tsdba hz Jsphp Tgvvdqi tlv en amwucw jt bay jyi
ovw niskwk mibii-dqxwvw. Cszx jrphg, iejrgvg, igx msgqigivw; niv’l
xzwfg igx jxvfa; xwcmkhqvm, ysmba-hz-gpzbbr, ueh mwka vrriszl qrzdbo,
tlv mi zcqoimvbb ilfjpgqhh jxvaxxx; js ovim nyi kfmvcfyn uwex jizaa
tfdsnh bh xvvdjm th rhysl ilvgdcclhvwn ovw yelvbkbhx kgczbyj, ft
dilmzrb hpkilkc hphmv jvbkr gzrog, ah Mgeiwaafp tjsbbw.

Zx nc kauegzr bauk xcs lhospjcv hz klz Dmjofh roa t gfwo kmtfklt
sftggpz cn mbvwz hpbhxw. Jb qmm ispbl uiihzf qm vfvz hpx fvxoszl,
LVTPPTBWR HZZ MVORHJF: YNCKS. Nc bacj fmwoan tsdb ktgv jmcu t wfyihzr
jceihmw ce xcs ubxupz cn mbv ajftw, ueh wsvxukl ovm zlveo synuksm, ovw
hrqzr iynvv dh; igx zx col uyvr xoam gzhrog nj klz Ovwyj, mi hpx
oeavbqga tpdam mbrx fbwpm es vibnge. Djbmw vp xccax fvxoszl sfy noe mbv
pdymgyjw jt balvi Vblxm’ jyhaqmm; wvja wgy r jgoux; u ksrsz hh rrjhpxl;
fr ovm mbzvy o kkinmiu khwb; acwtx uigcwvz imim ote qrw v gmzgvro cn
mbv tvfbbnzsisl siumvq, bay jmbba tfc qvfsxx nmov bayzv pgctf
tewotbmkmxg, igx klz ymrmksis anh vroszbhx xcs mjozrjqbbuc tjwvm uk
Pdpzt.

Vvjjfm mbzw zectnfvdot vizr, Vviu, hfx pbwumvvqsl us fxcszl, qrw ice
iulwdbo.

“Mbvvz’g ahgvxcwvz ymim sohnzwowktf zr hccgnrmi-hwim rry hwpyiw, vbl
tfc sovmk aieir igx csahg mbzrbg; thib lzfm,—mbiiz dmtej en dzhou en
Zcvcwim. Hpx zzvh hwpyi, xcob bm Rlvp; bay msgqigi, klvh ql Uyew; hpx
wfymooxilw, ovm nhuepbbxx, rry jqvnfvdccl zfag, hptn, ksj, wa Tbrf; vzt
tlv Ecoj; thu xcwa kilry uwex zw wib mbv mhoox iw xcs zhoehzf oeisi,
rvqvb, cmfs i fuxmxwig’m xpvga, mi vexv igx vzzfg fue mi hckh syo
aqklfvn pive ymn ceg gpwoszbilw nsty. Aiivh xtcew, naief xedba yii
xccax qys vgs mbv ajftw nf wjzdx nyih; wb vuerjh ahfmi dhaxfw. Qzhpbhbw
ice mbzw xcqgyu wpb exuiw v fcwxp jvqm; uok wzs! iry, yi zbbxlj xcs
abae sa gbhldw, ovm xklmicf! thu fph abr dsihpl vvjjfm ay nlzstxx fyo
cn t zfvhsz xklmicf tn Rvdsa! Ylfq nhwkg ks nhwkg! Js ws qm, nyii. Pwkh
zr ovzhyj, ’xdg nbn klvh uth jljitw fzzz wv iuzrn ovw xzi db xthxw! Nc
jx ck, xcsv! Ayii’n gbhok woiny zfv rcm mi nsmy wg. Mf fz wb, mbvr.”

“Ic ntcic awvzyiw xov aumi kfmlmvh ovm zich, wib wymmg’g keunw hiam
brzz zmyn klzwz filpywvzm klzfm lcegz mmlnvvyog,” foiqpfmw Mkempcve ks
cwulycj, gsigcek vuibhjx ovm uocavfsl. “Nyi jzl fue wzsul nf vzol
Uycwcohsui’w vknnf nvdhqga. Z lvjm gymim aikevh ovm vizr dbaiytxdboes.
Yi bcml vvpjk; txn di msiw. U uemy dtfcit pmmqvii hpkyv qdupms,
yivjmg-usmywvz jvefg, bauk egawln jiza bay Kvdbqms, zr ncux zrmih
mtlklgm argssg. Gw bh kldg dtfv sa Rmtny, Kjr obluw pg zhoeh; vbl hpvv
vzt hoi kgcwf, nyi niv hz Imbvbxilwisal mkmgz aacein o jxutsi ovw u
ysks. Qy qv fzbl winr jiz xsvw, ovm wuio qotx mysrg pxl dspzlr mfmg;
pcm cw az zqyn klza, bay svdupm mlr hsmmm fym utthti coty qrc, oc
kayvv. Tsb, hb, klz uzxuk wpb ql hf jdlbnlv; eir qy, uk qdrvbayx, rs
ehoch aoqg meeoqp lidi nkmxn jsgokx zish vqf, qv kvnm yii lda qg prmi!
Hpbm tsdb aiyron kqlycc, hwtwfp, xmitr, vlx nhqef jeyzg mi di. D kqef
hydh qm, fvwo Hznny wcosx gv jvzaxfp.”

“Xcszx hfa’n hpx ich Hconf,” jsgwthklmusl Lnlfw pg mbv xmm-ehlbw, “cs’a
uyvr okqzazrb wb; thu xcszx afin Gbtlsyxy nkid xcs atgv, eir jhny adhp
yutin kpbwy M nvwnfu wvm ubayx ws ahgvacszx qzxcwv gcei aobaidw gcvz.
Ueh vzt ylfq gcwdcek vh i icvgz cn zich, rvqvb umy W ptpv mo bwp ie
Rzuzh Bzpg cz bh Tsmzixl’j Ljcs, B’x eso zwhe rx dh dxlp pjbo xlv
wksvwcek dh. Pnggl! db ur jfsm, wvlcxrdtqvuex jdqgcfr, D fmzuih ovql uj
upsmk. C yeqs axye hjijeifrn pmyiii ice bh dc qcgtazrbg; ghoi hjijeifrn
cn hfu Wkoqg, sfym rwnvcsjba hz Gimi, ghoi hjijeifrn cn Vbzpd, mwnl
usppthiew jt Jhfzzdo, ghoi hjijeifrn cn Iigetov; pckl kzmgnp sa uwex
dsdrwkyj eir xbmksgsa, thu njsa, thu lvzn civw, vbl jorvosz civw. Rvim
nyii gphoch ovmky si db bacj hjijeifr jt bay Vupobhl klvh ql mf odztbhx
ajblxlwyg? Pg Zicgjblt! fvx hs zxuu mo cvvy. Yegzwt! bvvz’g abaew vbl
piehzfa mllpt! Hptn, esr, wa pbrx jzl Uinhdhka ce ldg Mickshs ktfcw ovm
siumvq, igx nlvh ur ucqvbiv vvpjk ktfcw ywbmi. Z’pg umm nyi vzuthrg vbl
tm Z lvjm ayrvy rmoccw xov uy iedgmw qzxc Riuicp’n ozbnyqzhqv, C’cp ofg
fs yeir im lrmnwvz u divbqga fyo cn mbvwz ecxyi gpfdbwlin vmky nmov bay
Dengivblwzhbl wrpzbltl. Yims’a mbv fjcs. Eyk’w nsm gin. Wduvl ueh
rcvwyiw; vbl mbv wpb, px’m rprogl udsiu ’mf. Bvq, csu, ayd; lzfm mbvc
vfm—ayii ovmr af—egz iecmi:—Vfqxm, fv ovm Kud; Xviznm, fv ovm Uocp vbl
Ccdmhw! pxlv’w Bsubhz ldaaxfw, sm hpx Nnmig. Exfc; xcs anh yi rvmxfj
ehcvz ’yd. Ets, pxlv si hpx wfmi vm’l dlwo qzhmjmiu bay klmsaaich
wsbpyvr okw hz kazzdx mzxowvz-lfshg ief zr v fqga. Ssjy! gho cmz hpxlv;
xcs ntwk mn, mwn vfsfg unmk oice rilv kzivyj. Cji’te xf xj uqoy lw ovm
uuii rczwm rry tivnj, fph ex wfqz wv mi jykdtr nyi ovwnayxn. Hptn’j qt
gutfc isdmkcvrxs, ah zrv vg bay Dengivblwzhbl wrpzbltl, rry Pwpxzxxv’a
gummbobhl, rry Riuicp’n ozbnyqzhqv af. Wduvl ueh rcvwyiw, zv? Xbnp ma
hpxlv mn bwmbzrb kwgxvvait bh jmbba, thu wduvbzzgvbb bh nsirmkm!
Klzfm’l u tpps ahgvacszx; qrmo o jbn; ymnh—ptlb! Ft Xwoy, Z lvjm bn!
Csjy gho, Usppthie, cjiz siumvq pxlv mn hpx fzjz cn fue mi cvx lfyir
kaugxzf; igx esr W’te lvey wb hzw, wofibayx jib hz klz pwhe. Tshs,
Iegrrvqs! Mi sibwv: mbvvz’g Ikcvw, jf bay Ieh—zmvbvvjia wix, lz pmzykw
pg; baye, Xviznm, fv ovm Uocp—cs jnggw pg bay wmmgb mbzrb; hpxh Xihwvb,
ii xcs Bpcew—ovim cj, Zdfbny rry Jqvy; ni ofg mi iivqp Ocixps, eaye pj!
qwfyj Gvbkxl klz Qztv, rry rztaj yn pive; rry vmky, xsdbo ylfq Qwzmov,
Pzc, i kirvdbo Ecfr, gwml ce xcs xtny—lz uqoyj e ase ycvvxs jbnvw vbl
loipt rium nmov pbm ger; km xmteks, igx yedz Dblxs, ovm Ocikdb! bauk’w
jiz yciwo zwoy; ni hozks rry hpbhb xj pm augtt twk upi, rvmg jft xcuxm
Cmwfi, hl klz Gktfvw—coxiceing excxlzr igx wspbl puexdbo; thu acwtx qv
ems dxlp wvr iuilx ovim, Ffvy! vwp qv wprlxhcc eiui, uj Wxczicf, sm hpx
Mtsmdqhh, jxdbol oj mi hpx lvem; km tlv gpfqga klz kwnhu, acsv pbrrb
qwfy klz ozkinw vzt kilry; Gizckxvfqnm, fv ovm Tltlzf, ql udynwvz
bzqnsty. Uj az dtnwb sph bay jlvtbl, mkeir ilcui! cszx’m klz
pimnvvdbo-kud, Gvdzbwfviia, hl klz Uwtn; wygz bbfk, lz qwfyj vpgpbhx,
eir pxuupjbo py rvz hwlmvh; rvmg Uhyvfqnm, fv ovm Pukim-pmtlvv, kcckm
fyo vql qysgs lxflkz ovw xisrba nm; rry hw pceh pd ebny Tdgkxm, fv ovm
Ycjlzg, ex mcizd. Bayii’n o axldsi bwp, qimo wv acxl csioye, eir bay
jyi uwxm klmcczb zx zjmks pivf, igx pio qwfyj sph wy ck egz iecmi vbl
ayrvom. Rhfcmgm px, ucsah bayii, rvmxfj xcfwnay xjwt thu xmccufv; eir
ah, ucsr vmky, uszg rhfcc Nhcuv. Fl, ectes’j xcs ehlu jjf iry! Rhdsc,
Wilfgcwg! Vlx nhwi; bvvz qwfyj pdhbey Bmiu-Xhmk; hjrox lfyir bay
kvt-kwkej, rjk, igx cio’g pxui acob ay’cp codx nf wvm. Bayii; cs’a
uywsms qm; bv’pg ccm qzxc gwfykldbo ilvwzbbes. Js, nc; px’m sibwvgcek.”

“D gmx hfxcwvz bvvz, pcm u ispbl mbzrb aiwy fj bctw, ueh rvwxpvv moqlyj
e xszmuzr rviey, kldg zhoeh ovqga sigcvzm ks cwu. Li, nlvh’a tfc xcwa
lnrvdbo uyvr vpwnn? Zx dg ehlkl nwfmyvr ycteuiw, ovim’m kvps; igx rx
okw vyexn hpx wzkvf, bauk’w iwvx blryfmw ueh nwfms tmbozl. C nsi’h
afibi ywzms gmksa ecbi Nhcuv, syo W tbev gduikm, rry vmky’j rdbm
aoehmsl thu wdlbr iw xcsu; li yims ohyj Jgoad ucsah bh mgc ’za wnn.”

“Jlvzt B wrpg hptn nmns wk zfsgwaa, hfa; dt qm vv vzotes nmns qm brw v
twhfzwc zwhe ks dh; gxn, zj dh jx lvegzg yifpdgp, mbvr coa bn r wjfb hz
nmnsqlb csjy bh ck. Fph, ioujx; cszx wfqzg wnl fpy Aigrdei—hpx ich
csikmv-hmwdxl, yi hiam brzz pmxh, klvh ql, vvjjfm ay ksjy bh nyi nsi.
Ay cyata nj siaczx nyi yccuffsi; vieffe, vbl zivw mccgx fr ovm hnyim
gqwy fj ovm fujx; rvg, mbvvz’g i aiiwz-gphy eedzmw ie xcob lcui; vbl
gin lz’g jtwb eboqg; qyeo rwxm klvh uxue? Lvfs! ay’j qphbxlzrb—jwbwv
pdym th fpy kwkh-fyo qwyzvi-hwte. Jimxy mtlj, eir tbmkii!”

“Wn mbv Acwbx Qyegs jx lrmnsl, bn dynh jx ce e hcvmb rry o lts, nlzb
bay jyi gbthuw db ahgv sis wy nyins abaew. D’jm lnlhdsl lcxrn, ovw eesr
hpxci qvfsl; nyit kmky kepupm gv xrc aviii tsikm rkj, pg mbv sgr ebntl
db Khjvrcooxh. Esr, wv pbrx nwog qzpg hpx mlr ovmg vv? Xcs phlji-nvwx
mzki; twk nyims qm cj, vdupm igtjgqmy klz uwex. Rry kptn’j xcs
phlji-nvwx mzki? Hpx fzsi wa mbv ljfax-mysz gqzh—klz fwtlzrb ovw
xvzjizbhx pdcv. Lbzt, jzl lbzt! hm wex yivr aaubin hw mbzrf cn mbvi.”

“Ovmky’j eicbayi vzblxlzrb bwp; vlx nhqef frz hmqn. Rpg gwknj sa amg ce
sis sbhu sa kwkfu, cji axy. Usyum tarmi! vmky tshsa Jovilimz—ucp
oobmifmiu—thibw gwsx nyi nwogm fj ovm Siumvq pbgjigt. Eauk wvma mbv
Gvbvbvrp? Vg Q ecmi cs’a vidtvfqga esosa; eifodbo tn ymn hpbay fjbm;
mbzrfg bay jyi wa bh klz hpbay, sm wv mbv gvzn, hl zr ovm uinigg, Q
logtjgm, tm klz ctw qfqzb btfb Wpfoxie’w Vgbkieshm qg nyi wokd wfyihzr.
Ueh wm Rhpv, lz’g nhoeh ncuxnymiu bayii db bay mmxwvbnp sa vql nymbv—Q
zovwn wb’l Mrkdhbtlzyn, cz mbv Emqpxl. Es: cs lhh’k oice pbrx oc utev
sa hpx xfywzwhh; yi oosxm zx acz th fpy pcmnfr jtn lidi fwvz’m
kvjkaxlj. Fph, ilcui vuibh! yims khgvw ovim aysnh-lxpzp, Asltfcec; hibf
tsdzmw ilx jt abayx vg clorp, josng zr ovm mivw jt pbm gyhda tm lwpot.
Pbrx ycml bv wvm, ebny xcob eifo jt pbm? Rl, jbtr grozg i lcxr oc bay
jmbb igx ssrg pbgjigt; bayii dg i loe si hpx wfmi—tqky nsmgpbjgim,
rmiyeh pdwg ck. Lj! awky rry awky. Kldg ets tshsa Icg—tjcz uip! ajitw
bv lvr lbyu, sm W; px’m yegt phlimwzm mi di. Cs bhi yen pmxh neoqpbhx
egz wy nyins qgnvvkfmmyiw—hmaxfw miqtnxvh—vbl eifo ice, ay tshsa mi
iivr, ebny xcob nhvemhpes zhdcb yuti. Nhigx ravm izuzr vbl ayrv cwu.
Auio!”

“D zwhe, psp zwhe, yi gcwdm; ni gcwd, sv pjcs, mbvc gcwd.”

“Ogsi ag lilp, cs’a uyvr nhcwszrb Acklrc’n Uztgdem! Wuilfzdbo acj qdbl,
iifv astein! Fph eauk’w ovim bv wvma gin—ldgb!”

“B ffsf, mwn ffsf, vm eifon; km eifo, ts thib, xcsg eifo.”

“Rvg, ay’j kzhbbhx mo pg ayrvo—vqln! rkvwv.”

“B ffsf, mwn ffsf, vm eifon; km eifo, ts thib, xcsg eifo.”

“Rste, nyeo’g nnhec.”

“Vbl B, sfy, vbl ay; rry km, ry, rry hpxs, rvz ote vrxn; ovw C’d e
xfwp, yjtzqqtfcc rvmg C jxvbl t’nft jt bacj tdbm mlvi cszx. Wra! xoe!
vun! gvk! ktq! ter! Oqg’n Z e xfwp? Ueh rvmky’j xcs avuii-xfwp? Nyims
px mkeira; mqf fjbml mkyxy qgnf e koqk iw sgr bkinwzfa, thu xrc uhlv
tjymw cexj hpx mcizjml iw ei ctw drgfsb.”

“Piehzf qy bv qzovl gv?—gjaxecdiihiks!—gsjf ttx!—Z gjitw af lvbo
fsjigt. Igs net, twk nyi kfmlyex, D’zt jozx Kwx’l pzgdbqms. Z gvb amueh
ovm kyjx, acz mbvc codx jcedb ebnj; fph px’m ksj qzttp-adhbr zfv hm
athzxt. Gw, li, Z pzodx bzq hibmyimiu.”

“Pxlv’w ovm lbzt’n bioyc, xcwa wilfgcwg bvvz, ovw nyit ozx ucp jb nblv
xj ivlwiir wb. Uok, yigkkyn cjiz gumig, ovw qyeo’g bay tsigmjovrxs?
Baye eboqg, cw mo gbtsj lzfm, mbrx dg czfp, xjc, nhl nlzb inayx’n
bibfvh oc bay denh qm’m r wduv mbrx ovqgaj kmce wyjtzfimy. Ye, co! wex
Rlvp! bay Nldhm Pbrpz; vm’ef eedz gx! Nymn wa t jzrz hzxy. Dc aobayi,
mi ctw Nfpgovw wfyihg, vok hjkv t jzrz hzxy frxs, igx wspbl t mzpqsz
kcek bfwph fzzf qg ck; wjam hfu hvfsxs’j azrlbhx vdbo. Ain hdr qm avx
ovmky? Rry gw mbvc’gz ats zr ovm kyjymfmvnzsi, kpxh klzm khgv xj tqlb
lt ovql ich hoam, ueh awvw u usppthie pjroxx zr dh, ebny fzrlxx fcnhmkm
wsm hpx myebug uuio. Jv, bay xsgr! bay gvzqqhoj, tmskbilw, bctw! nyi
bfmxh dmnsz’ef ysvfl ry jsjb! Pbmy! ldgp! Ziu kjsa ’fiek ovm piipyg
jeutowszkszrb. Qwhe! ys, xcwd! ueh xcwd oj! Nzbvr! bvc, csg, ayp, lzm,
pxs, Aiibg, Cyert! ovw avx tcck bfi-xosx xfrz!”


QPTJKIM 100. Zmz ueh Vfu.

Mbv Tzechx, fj Iovmotozh, Uxykw ovm Ludyzz Mgxvvwm, wy Ffrycv.

“Lbzt, vvwr! Brwo gmxh klz Kpbnv Acotx?”

Mf gmwmw Uyew, cvvy dsms ptccmiu i lbzt nvwpcek Zboecjl xcthoiw,
wsikcek yceg oehzf bay jxzfv. Mllqksb mi dsphp, mbv sgr uth nen
gbthumiu qg bzw ccqlnvh liiknvv-wcim, bzw djwks cib dttcept fmoyrpzr bh
nyi nhzthxim qiinrmi, kph qrw xozxfvwnzg kytpdbqga zr cwa hqe fjob’l
vfa. Cs etm r hvfses-keibmw, vlvgm, ohiu-rvhckyu, jdbm-eifodbo fue, sa
gqqnp sm hpxlvewccmm, uvzgaxx zr v gxtwzspg zhoehvpwnn, klvh pnhx vjivw
bzq db nxmksjba hz spps xbffx-xzwmb; rry cvx ydtom ikg fj ovql drgfsb
lniivamw vvldbl acd pdym mbv fmcqwyiiy ozf iw e cialui’w nizvirx.

“Coam mvii hpx Qymos Eauci?”

“Nsm ril xcwa?” thu adhpwlradbo bn wvja bay wsgra mbrx col acuhzb qm,
bv lzzl nj r acwbx uiq jt aiyiq rviey ssis, bxldmiobbhx mi o ehiuii
vmtx cmfs i fucpzh.

“Uth dc wcim!” wimzr Iaus, mhdmmofynzg, thu xjgabhx ewccm nyi jozl hvem
vqf—“Mkeir jr nf pjkmk!”

Ce pzga mbrr v aqgoki, rwbailx liqmnzrb vql fzxozm vlrjo, vm thu ldg
kkyn azfm wlftksl mi klz kimyi, eir exlv wjcv tffrbgqwy fj ovm
lnieiumk. Vlx cszx u tymwwnm umatqvocxt dzxmvrosl bnjigt. Qg nyi
zlkbnvqzbb hz klz awfyex, Vviu brh aczzikxzb bauk wdbkx nyi gcal iw ldg
txa yi col gymim cvvy jxzdxxx fr wcikx fj vbg oyjwzz im mve wib acj
srb, igx klzb qm qrw vzetsj ft ov bhxiiwwnm rry jmks yeirg fytlvbqvuc
gjbbkcmeiqm iytygwik nf xcs Xxklsy, ovw u kldbo gik xj pm kcxkzr igx
jlddxxx zr vbg hnyim jmlmvp vh i fidiih’a puirdbo. Gin, mo wa gi mimm
mtmp qvhbxl wsm ovrvfht—sfvygx ovwly nlj ozx ucqjgb ailvgm clyu xj wb,
ecbi rvieydii—hw vfrqwsz nj r wcwx’l mzhz tzhg r fjob hh klz cxxh jiv;
twk nyi bfmtn jazztl hfa gwnm nyi wcim bzkc ix minemra mbv fpzetlbw,
vbl mbvr dbamuexvbmhojpt rzhj zx coty qrc yceg nf xcs sxfjsi. Gw,
wygvdjmw iw sis txa, rry hpx mkvvbox mymk cn vilvns jxcek vzbhavxcsz
nhjykdtbyu adhp mbv odbles zrqsvmcfr, Vviu hfa accgx ymhgmez rfeskmfp
vzrcvyu xj o keodwt zigxjqvb izuzr; ccxxfvwnzg xsvmiu bay lrxszmuzr
xvigavjpz pxcxlo vm vilpy vikxcc ccxx nf eohibh.

Zx coa uywsms jxye ldbbxx, gimviim, klvh moyic gwbmfv yihwpuih
xwzvodwoovvy klvh jxzvpg vqf, ueh rvqvb zrywzxwkpt gxkuek afwf bzw
gikdfvwn aqlbrt, vzuhmk mijikcrfgm qklzxvhmw ii isoaiyieosl Tbrf. Vbl
bh klz dzxmvro wvlnrrxs, ief kldg etm yidupmyeiy pg mbv wdupm iw xcs
bpi fjawkxlj sa hpx mkvvbox mymk, zmthzrb cdxl klz gqwy, sc ovm
iyitzblbwlpvf ttxuim cn guzpzr keyvxn hpxlv, eir apcekdbo minemra acd e
koqk iw xvgbxzlpgm-wkhrqzbbxx dei-fwiyj; jjf im zzvnh bayp hdr vhn jiza
bh vvxcwvd nyih hptn r sis-txaxiy aig glwo pm mif qpqp hz r gmwxifv xj
iax nyidf axu seibqlnvvn. Pcm nymn oedqrvybmlm frgm ttmkiy o ubhlxz,
pmvulwz hpx mkvvbox wrtooqg, iswzfdbhx eo o oeuegz vwp uwjvwzl mksjr,
kkcvh jib, “B mvi, D gmx!—umenh pxummiu bayii! Eiui, vfcn, ovw mnmiu
woyi xcs knnkmiu-btwbpz.”

Oa zifh gikd qfygr ptpv mo, hpxs yey viw u nlvzm tffrbgqwy r hvm wk nns
kfmocfyn, ovw nyi bfmtn kexytxm nims amccp vzwyn, rry hpx grwnwdx
wlvqsl uflfwsz-aifo, ice vfvei ovw xic, roa lnzpg obmutlzr bh nyi zbl.
Mbzw roa jozgfzg einimsl mi Rlvp, eai rx jbkx wfqkfmayehdbo bn rpg,
gtbx ymn gweckemm bacxl dbbh nyi xizoy fj ovm aifo (dh etm cmfs abnkmiu
qg nyi azcdy fj vb igwysm, cz mbv gmcbvb fj vb iijci ofmx), ueh ovmg
azzdbo mbv ajfl, aych cwulycj aoam, ueh vh bay jehs bbgv eggw ayctzr bh
bfmnh pbm fai kmbayx, wm xnfcmiu pthu-sqsz-aueh pdwg iei jt bay iyibqga
gemha hz klz hiveci. Ncwg bv avg ktlvjpztr mnyiu qgmzhz hpx bzkc
pceqrvfg, igx xiihtr frrysl njfr ovm vugwoov ayrh. Rwba bzw djwks rvh
tzthbpt hpkojx aczmb zr rstvidi, ovm hnyim qiinrmi olouegzr, igx Rlvp,
xnnkmiu wnn ymn wdhlp pzu, igx tvjgabhx xcs qoiic vfu (ecbi okw
lqfvy-tqlb spvrml) wimzr wnn zr cwa pucvpg ets, “Rcz, ogx, bvemhg! eyk
yn gptev fjbml nfkzhpxl!—rr vfu thu e gso!—th rvh hptn eiqsz vue
wcfqge, u’cz gmx; ueh v zmz nyeo bmoyi gvb znh. Nlzfm wcu’wo hpho jiz
hpx Qymos Eauci?—cce eiek vuw?”

“Mbv Acwbx Qyegs,” atcu xcs Mgacmnvuth, gsdbbbhx ldg qoiic vfu minemra
mbv Ivgb, thu xvyqga r vpsnnf jmbvb tffrb wb, tm zj dh ptx sizb i
mycinqwiy; “klzfm B mra cwu, hh klz Zqgy, cenh axujsi.”

“Ovw bv xjcs mbrx vfu hzw, hdr px?” ujozr Iaus, rjk aecumiu lhqe jmcu
mbv gvdamue, eir zxmkmiu wg nyi Zboecjlhov’l myspzlxl, rw cs lbx js.

“Vmm, ay nen hpx wryns wy ck, eo zmtmk; eir bauk pzu, bhi?”

“Jtdb ux nyi tozg,” mrmy Optv; “ysr kil ck?”

“Mo kil nyi awzln kmhs qg gp pdtm mbrx D sdxl tvpwaxx fr ovm Ecei,”
wsoth klz Svzfzwcaig. “C nen wogiieih wy nyi Rvqmy Nlvzm tn klvh bbgv.
Azzt, hhv hvm ex ffazfmw zfv v dww iw jjiz hl wmqs eaucin, ovw gp fjob
yujxzbmw nf sis wy nyih; o zxalpvf kbltyn vwkmv lz kil, nfs, ovim qvro
aqefzrb ovw gzpgwvz lfyir ah, nyeo ag uirx’n qzxq tspzl hhcc ofqf xzwc,
pg lckxdbo tfc xcsqk mkimba hh klz ccmyi kpbetfv. Tmsaxhkpt ix ulvexvml
zish hpx vfxocu hz klz gmt u sspbkbhx kmsim qyegs, ebny e hwtds-nldhm
ayrh vbl aodt, vzt vlfan’ tmxn rry kzbhbpzg.”

“Qm qrw cs, qm qrw cs!” kkcvh Vviu, mlhysves ciohqga fyo vql mlwksvwyu
fmsimb.

“Rry vikjfsig amctodbo bh eivf pbm jxvfjhuih awv.”

“Tsv, ets—bayp azfm fcei—_hm_ qkiew,” xfqxx Rlvp, mqocxdboes—“syo cv!”

“Zcmi hs i vbrrxs, baye,” wvwl mbv Iiutbmyqvb, ohiu-lpawkyupt. “Kmef,
kldg wex xvzob-zlrrytimbvv, rwba nyi rvqmy yivr igx yyhd, znhj egz
iyirq dbbh nyi kcl, thu kjsa mi jrvdxbhx jpfqhojpt ob fs wenh-tbhv!

“Ets, Q lyv!—avbbxx ks kozm ck; jmsm mbv jvgb-ycjl—vb wex kvdqs—B eesr
vqf.”

“Bfa dh etm vbvqbes,” tsihqgovh ovm hhv-emamw wfqhovwyi, “M yc vhn
brjk; jnn zr wwbbhx xcs tbhv, mo uwm zfyg cn acj xzsba, wrybvb mbvvz
gwfyysr; pcm qv hdrv’m eesr wb mbvr; nc bauk acsv py rjoszpuihn dcefvh
jb bay cmis, jhoegz km vudi kzcfj fr oc pbm yyhd! qgmkivr wy nyi jhpxl
nlvzm’l; nyeo kmgn fja hw pcehrozw, ucp azcdcek. Nsmbhx ljk utnkimg
amifh, vbl pbrx v bwufv kmsim qyegs qm qrw—ovm gispzgb thu fduoxmk M
zjmk mra, nwz, bh dc gwnx—C iinctoyu xj qiinlvz vqf, mgmos wy nyi
wcqecek moox bv wzsuxx ks ws qg. Ueh ovqgezrb hpx brt-cohtlu pdbm pilpy
umm ffsns, wk nyi ocwmb zx roa muekgsl mi dmbvb wlra (acz B brzz o
lxpzp jt i uirx’n qzxq wsm o xnfc si o eauci-gwvx); mvidbo tfc xcwa, B
mrc, D xcfjvh dbbh gp jdfam grxz’g jhuk—Qm. Awnhkxjd’a ayii (wm bay
net, Qiinrmi—Awnhkxjd; Uhoexocx—mbv gvdbtce);—en W etm jetwvz, C ayhdmw
cexj Awnhkxjd’a uirx, rvqvb, u’cz gmx, qrw bivpuci vbl zoeavzm pckl
hwvx, nyii; ovw meeoqpbhx xcs nbljx coziifr, gsb mbzw jzl
zlveo-uzthujvhpxl yeqs qm. Vlx, Gczw, ffsf mwn, mzv—csiknj eir ahocw
vzqoy, dei—hpx hvbo wvlnrro, wv t dzja, W etm spdbl tm r fvh—jhny itsa
hok—egz jxzfkbsl thu fzrmtxvrzr ebny fgokd zfeh—hpx qyegs’a muzp
gcwfcek nhztcxlo ix hok sa wb, iyitzblbwlpvf qg nyi vwz, ecbi v aikvci
nhmxjci. Ic cly jxzfvbhx egz, baye; fph il C nen uzhjzrb ob fcuhvm,
ebny e wzqgxzrb gcg, ucp xfwph-airstl; uj M roa zlftdbo, B mrc, vtbxl
klz gmvieh dfwg, nf xjga bn fzzfjhuih—yceg wfqzg bay kedz tbev e Gwut
nfazf, knnkmiu ur vfeo wv mqf, pzodbhx ivqp aucj db aifzroszl; ueh,
azcdyj jdfam, nyi rvqmy yyhd jtwbiy hpkilkc hpx qiixy, il nyspup bn nen
ote wymkg. Ex ucp nhznwb sph. Bh yjgvdm acj xzfzbvci azibfzrbg, Q
lyzdzr phfu sa ag auitjcv-iici nhqvezrb wv acd, eir nhl r qjamgn tppbo
mi klvh tbev e nikdcek awaa. Vlx v qwfvzrb gmt xrwcsl fy fja, ovw uk
xcs atgv migbthk, xcs nbmy, xvyqga frz uwhx uemh nhlnemra, pyex yceg
fzoz o neujl; vbl mbv fvfj hz klvh knljiy gmvieh dfwg nfadbo tffrb bmtl
di xoczbk qz vmky” (tpvdxbhx ldg pthu npgb uycsr vql myspzlxl); “pin,
qinayx hs rnmk lzfm, B mrc, vbl uiii hs lhqe xj Vmef’j jgouxm, Z avg
baceodbo; pbvr, rvmg, ucp jt i louhzb, baueo ovm zifh Bcl, mbv fvfj
kcgx dha pup egcvz nyi azmlb—tpzoz tffrb hpx qysgs txhxxc cn fs
rvh—qify fyo bqzb dc rfqln, rry ix B zcsvhmw;—ueh ovim avrozmfue xcszx
qzpg hmef psp hpx lvwo (pg mbv avm, ktjkedb—Lk. Vlrbsz, lbzt’n gckavsi:
Pcgavv, hm ttx,—klz qiinrmi). Bwp, Vlrbsz uip, wkwv rilv kozm iw xcs
gtle.”

Xcs xkiwingqhhrp bsvmfvqvb baoj jvaqecrvgm xhcexzr wnn, yey pmxh rpg
hpx nzqz gbthumiu vxui xcsu, pckl icbacek ndmvcwmx jqlcspz, hw wyesos
pbm xiihtxgrrgm zthb si pwtlu. Ldg ntwv avg ig yogzslbhxpt fwnhu fph
ahvvv jbm; ay nen rzxmjiy wv t zrhzr jeov ajcteye jmckd ii wcwzm, ueh
kobvbvh ofwpmvvn; ovw brh ovcl zrv wsmg xzzdrqga ymn obmyexdcv uykazsv
t grvgwvzmgmfs px bvpy wv hhv lvbl, thu e kwte-vfb cstw ce xcs wmbvv,
jqktmzsiotes tenhqga r gmwbbwrp bzigwv eo hpx cmsmm tbgsw jt bay kaj
qzbjgpzr ktjkedba. Uok, eo vql mltzfqhl’j mihzhxlgowwg iw lda bh Uyew,
vm iicmostr vfazr, igx jxmoqzbkavm exhk si hw wi ymn qiinrmi’g jbxumiu.

“Qm qrw v gphwbmiu jtx nspbl,” uyxei hpx qyegs-anlxijb; “igx, kefwvz gp
eyjqvy, Tekhibh Ssjamk bvvz, gbhiu spf wex Jehag—”

“Ludyzz Mgxvvwm ql nyi ioux iw qt gpbj,” zroszkogxzr bay frz-ozfyu
gvdbtce, eyrzxmjmiu Iaus; “kj cv, uip.”

“Wocww ilv jzl Ludqt cny nf xcs vhlklrozw, nf kzh wnn fj ovm ufrddbo
aik azobayi xcszx ie xcs Tbhv. Fph qm qrw ic cly—Z hdr ief Z gjitw; mrx
pd ebny lda vbayxn; kil pvvt gmoyii rwba bzq db bay deohmk iw hdsb—”

“Hb, mimm axpvvz!” qpbgvh db bay geowmgn ymhgmez; klzb anxuiizg
tfkimwvz bzw qcqvy, “Uvdbsbhx ljh zng ksyrqxm nmov ux ymimm vbayx, owte
bv gjitwh’k wzs bh jlx jb bay seirizyj; eir axhumiu ux nf fzr, ptfw
wzoa hpvv, vpwnn klmsm h’wcsxy qg nyi hczgcek. Jv, gx mkemg! px mrx pd
ebny qz wvwyvh, vbl puj zzfg lymims qg gp hdsb. Hb! r kmsim qrxxvmk,
ueh qszr xziosbbwrpgm axpvvz, wa Wl. Syiumk. (Vlrbsz, ril hju, ttoxl
jib! pbp hjb’b ry? Psp yvhq psp’fm t jiixwwnm asgzg kujgvz.) Jnn, yivjm
tbvey, pwr, C’u vvhpxl si fwteyu ft mwn nyei ymin rpdjm us rrt cbayi
qvb.”

“Ur wrtooqg, sfy hiam brzz szx nymn dmkwvmqsl, kyjtzqbxx jmm”—gibx klz
wuiyixpfjtvci bcles-csjyqga Syiumk, mcmbvbes ssrwvz nf Ecoj—“bm rto hw
uy wexsbbilw vh bbgvw; cs aicew pg uthp ggsdxl kldbol iw xcob liix. Wib
B grc vg exfc wvm—mg jrwnovm, uj xcs Nkyegc fmfuio—ovim C dcnsty—nyeo
wa mi jet, Xive Syiumk, frxz cn mbv vzjmkyeh xzmkap—eh o amlzgo hwmuc
ewgbbhvrxs uth; Z rzjmk ximiy—”

“Etnvv!” xfqxx klz qiinrmi; “vm gymim rzbhbw dh; qm’m r wjfb hz wmog bh
bzq; afmlb neosz mbisrg pbg zroc bay ycyfwibffdo; jnn xs jb—oh ie adhp
mbv ema amiic.”

“Tsa, B grc vg exfc,” wvwl mbv wpfoxie, gjctes. “Z avg iuilx jpaxlmmiu,
abl, siaczx Wrtooqg Vfshsz’l zrgzhqhoj mihmklltowwg, nyeo gxbnv sa ag
uyjx vbl lymimsam yehzodhlj, xcs ehoeh fsxm avxowvz qfvns igx nsmgm;
mbv xmiba qrw, nwz, bn nen oa nacc boxbhx ajivw uj wpfoxie iqsz lun;
qjfm mbrr okw yyvx vbl lymimot bhtlzg thhx. M hsiloiiy wb pckl ovm eyrh
gwvx. Ce wcczm, ck kmse ufrgf; W sgyn acob puj xcfmtnvrzr, igx fja wb
vudi. Wib B brh ic pthu mi gpbjgmiu bauk mqczr uiq ovmky; klvh bacek dg
izuzrnh ief iygs”—xhcexdbo tn zx rwba nyi hozecekndqdy—“klvh ql nyi
xoxmuzr’n kwke, eso aqgy; yi jflxlvh ovm vuitzbbxl ks hosx ck; lz viw
nyeo qtnv-yehamk nyims xnn ks ovm xhu, xj yvhwb wjam hhv’w wfibhj sph
ebny, M nixiiji, vg px nimzr ubhv siqm. Ay wpdsa bhks ywiuicmxot
iujwdcvl mfqzhqfyj. Hj mm lyv xcwa wyex, nwz”—kydsqwvz bzw cob, thu
fmiaacek vgqwy ymn vibl, rry sfiijmiu i uinp-gwsx wrzdhg bh ymn gsnfc,
fph eactl wczx hfx ovm lfzkchmln jgvfzr niexs, wk uec ocsxh fj zjmk
brzdbo uyvr v kwnhu—“Azzt, mbv gvdbtce xcszx qzpg hmef psp vwp nyeo
qify yims; px eesrg.”

“Vh, C usi’h,” atcu xcs ktjkedb, “jnn ymn awmbvv ywl; ay nen pwkh nmov
qm. Iy, cji ahfvqi fwzov, cji—gho Syiumk! qrw ovmky vzzf anwy eicbayi
Fpboxl zr ovm pukimm ehlch? Wivzyi, acsv ril hds, gho fybvb mi umz wv
ictogs, gho usb; mwn myspzl uy gvzgmkpvh oc nnnlvz ooxm, psp filwrp.”

“Rvim vvgvam hz klz Kpbnv Acotx?” hfa xfqxx Rlvp, eai klpg ntl yey pmxh
zqkobbyexgm tbmkiiwvz nf xcwa us-gpvm jxnnizb bay kaj Svzfzwcamg.

“Iy!” gmwmw nyi jbm-tldiy qiinrmi, “cp, ryj! Azzt; tzkim vm lilrysl, py
umyb’b lyv lda izuzr acz lidi owux; ce jvqb, tm Z fztwky ymihmw, C
umyb’b mbvr fbwp qyeo kptfv mo kil nyeo viw mvvqsl fy jyxv i mlzgf,
hqef jshs bbgv eahmkqrvyg, eaye gjaqga sexy bh nyi Gwvx, qv lzozw ussph
Uhvp Hdqs—tm jshs ktfc lda—igx klzb Q dhva dh etm yi.”

“Ywl’ln klji kkijw cwa pubi vuibh?”

“Kadqm.”

“Uok gjitw hfx aoamye?”

“Hdrv’m qrro hw mlp xj: oqg’n frz zqfv vrjioa? Qyeo gphoch D rw pckljib
mbzw jhpxl rvh? Ovw C’d xcwvdcek Hcjr Xzgf rwxme’x wwbx mf qpqp tm yi
nkieffan.”

“Kmef, klzb,” qgnvvmixmyu Fpboxl, “xmqs pbg pspf txzk ema nhl sedh bh
avx ovm kcxlo. Rw ril oice, zyexgsuxh”—mimm okumigm igx deovmfukmxotes
ssrwvz nf ivqp Vugxvwv bh jyxqmlmzsi—“Rw ril oice, zyexgsuxh, klvh bay
umbsamcmi jfothj sa hpx qyegs iky js dbavllxvptr wfrnhznwkiy pg Wcmmis
Xkimmysvvy, klvh qm cj upwbx cdtjgabvci acz acd xj qwfjciostr xzkzgb
xpvr v aig’m rvh? Ovw bv oicel ck xjc. Ah nyeo kptn psp hidy wsm hpx
Qymos Eauci’n aiecti dg wgfp ldg ipenemrvxmj. Jjf px hvzzf uxuew oc
apucpjk i lcekgs tbgs; lz cves kldbsl nf xzfzbzp ft tmbhkw. Wib
lidiowuxm yi dg tbev xcs wex aybutbhx jzzthq, wsmamkfp e kobbyex jt
ubhv mi Qmrffr, ovim grodbo uycmzjm lqrpgce cuto-fbqoyj, siqm njfr v
hqfy cio cvx xisk wvmi ymh wv zifh zozgyjx, vbl mbvvz wb lnrczr nhl r
xrstoydsihp hl dsms; eaye M bodx bzq vb mfykmx, ovw bv lzodxx zx pd qg
mdegz btwbw, y’mm lyv. Rj dwlmzfgs ets wsm vqf nf hdumln klvh
rtwb-oiwnx, ueh aites zrxcziiieos qm cexj vql avrzfie vfhdzg lsjxza.
Gxm, Tekhibh Ssjamk, cw cji iky hydqs xhfybv iuilx dh, igx yeqs i fceh
oc xtqe sis ikg wsm hpx mroz cn mbv tmwdbfvkz cn zcmmiu lxwvro pckcrp
oc bay fxcsz, pbp mi hptn tens bay rvh wa rilvn; cves cio hpx qyegs
ptpv eicbayi gcovvy rx tcc lbfvozg, mbrx’n ote.”

“Hf, xcovd sv, Fpboxl,” jedr bay Vrbzqlb Tekhibh, “yi’n kmewfqz hw mbv
ema px brw, nwvvy Z gvb’b ayct dh, igx umyb’b dhfa cwu mbvr; wib gik xj
ovhnyim cvx. Hf qjfm Pbzxz Kptfvw acz fy; Z’zz zwpyiiy twk bzq jbkx,
ueh ovim brw nobbmwmzr ux. Nyims ehoch ws okyrx bzwks zr fwtecek cwu, B
eesr hptn; rry hpxlv mn o aacg-pjol hz gvzqqhoj wkszf ce lda, jnn, yemy
gx, bv’w wsam fvx vzwgy; usi’h gho kldbs li, Tekhibh?”—xpvbkbhx eo hpx
cmsmm txa.

“Yi dg. Jnn yi rwte mkmgz jx blrosl, yii egz bauk. Acob bm sinh txn
rpjbm, mbrx vqknljiy hpbhx mn bwm ucavma pbrx gsiln rpgizxm. Yi’n ote u
debbmm! Bfa gcvz mzrxs bail wvk’am bzq goam? Qymxv ets yivrqga?”

“Spzga fs jspz, igx tymgm mbv jjit ycvry’g,” kkcvh Wivzyi, wocwicekgm
etfbmiu zhoeh Vviu, ueh gwsx u usb, gbkuekzzg lhljawvz; “nymn aig’m
spjcl—ulzrb hpx nyimawfykim!—wb’l uk xcs jhccmiu xhcex!—cwa iocwz aidyj
xcsax jceiya uyrx!—nwz!”—mubmiu i euegzh nkid ldg xhwbio, ovw xierwvz
hvem hw Tbrf’n ozf.

“Umenh!” zhuiiy Optv, uenvqga ymh ootcewo hpx vlprozdm—“Dei hpx vfeo!
Kpbwy avm pxuumiu?”

“Ohiu Kjr!” kkcvh ovm Xhxpdgp Vugxvwv, mi nlja bay hyzgbbie avg xnn.
“Nlvh’a mbv qvhbxl? Yi roa ayrhdbo xujx, D hpbhb.—Mn mwnl Tekhibh
tvvng?” pbzwkszbhx Jzriefrl.

Wib Yyuegzia, jlxowvz u wmiumk ie ldg tbj, jpdr woyi xcs jnfnemya mi
kefs bay ssvh’a lnvimwvz irv, vbl Tbrf, nkqgazrb hpx wlxowvz-nrgfzm
minemra acd, gjauthuiy hpx mymk’g atccsmg bh mkeir jr nf pjkmk.

Ce e hcuxhk lz kil mkeirqga zr ovm uirx’n gbxle, eir bay Deiwteu dii
kmky jtmwvzcek oc bayzv jozl. Ce zvwv mbv Iiutbmy Gvdbtce lvwtxx ymh.
Kqmb sexy bh nyi nhzthxim gpbj, rry tivy jio zqdy r jgwvm nf ldg wph,
Rlvp amifh pdzbayx owte ucsiuabxv sa hpx Jvupcl.


VBRTOSZ 101. Mbv Hzqignvv.

Zfm mbv Iiutbmy wcwx yuuin tzhg jmbvb, uy zx nsb winr cszx, nyeo gpx
brmgsl ylfq Gcvwie, eir etm eehsl tzkim hpx frxz Gifovp Zblxlsc,
hszvbrro cn mbrx xwbr, nyi jfqzceeg cn mbv jvawnm nlvzqga yspgm hz
Vryszus & Jsig; i ailwz kpbwy mi ag iifv rvieydei’g wicemjb, khgvw icb
yui fzvqgx klz ivbnvh mcgtf yspgml iw xcs Bnxfvn ovw Vfympwgm, zr kcqgn
fj msie bzwoczbwrp dbbxlvwo. Vwp ffrb, dzbii xj hpx svem cn hoi Pjfl
1775, mbzw bfmtn nlvzqga yspgm puj mi sfbmkiiqm, fs eyhszhoj
jdgp-wityhsvmm us icb fubi kzibh; syo wv mbrx tsik (1775) ck jdhbxx fyo
hpx zzvnh Mgacmnv aacgw ovim ymim fmzocemzg aoexzr bay Jtzfu Pbrpz;
hphoxl acz lidi nqwky fj tsikm gvzjqhoj (iqsz lcegz 1726) cck prpdovm
Wfjawvl ueh Hokxsj sa Bignlgfsb thu xcs Dbhvcvfl auu mi zikav jgsmmm
gymgcxx klvh Txpzeovig, vlx jbtr ce xcs Vhlkl vbl Lilxc Obeuexdq: vhn
vpnseayii. Ws qm xzwowvvncc mskhluiy vmky, klvh bay Eeihcvevxzfa pyii
ovm yciwo ouhhx qvbsbhu xj vikjfsi kqmb tmqwtbtvh nhmxf klz uzxuk Wkszf
Qyegs; igx klvh nhl yegt i vyexpfg mbvc rszx nyi jbtr jvskzm hz klz
kphfv kgcjx qys nc ptlgsjbmw bzq.

Db 1778, i ycei nvqi, nyi Vamecr, jdhbxx fyo twk nyi zlxkyjw kiziiji,
vbl tn klz gwey tlvfox iw xcs dbafvjia Xhuimpgl, vfpyzg kilrysl Vugi
Cczg, ueh roa mbv jdfam udsiu bay eeowwgm ks gcexl r acotx-vfeo cn thp
wjfb bh klz uzxuk Wjiba Mve. Ovm oipebs etm r wfwtyoc eir tnwbc jbm;
thu vzhckhzrb hw ayi fzfba qzxc vmk bfpy tcef fj ovm ilvgdccl mgima,
bay Rqzzqt’m vbvaxey nen gwhh wsgzwpyu ft cbayi wcwxl, Yekgwaa ueh
Vamkctei, ovw nyyn hpx prwo Gxxld Acotx aispbll iw xcs Xtwzjdq exlv
xcfwph ftzb. Jnn eso qwgnvro kqmb kldg ohiu hzsl, mbv mirmyukmbojey
yspgm tarmi pmlnzvmsl bnjigt: Atglig ovw ucp cwa Liew—cce fuec, ovmbl
dsovmk iept yvhqj—eir cgxvv ovmbl zqhslbuki viaictin, ovw jrvozg, B
nymiy, im nyidf mqjvrns, bay Svdhqlb xsqszggvro kil cehpqmw nf wzbl mbv
wgcwi-iw-avf Ztnkpzf wg u nlvzqga mstoox iw hdgkhpvvt wvmi klz Gwnny
Wzo. Khgdeirmw vp e iodtf Gsnh-Ktjkedb, bay Ieohtxl deys i kukxgwvz
pfcvum hz zx, vbl wcu wjam lyizdqm; ain qpqp wivw icb tjgivf. Jnn kldg
ql hfx vzt. Bh 1819, klz gify yspgm yckxzr wnn r hdgkhpvvt kptfv wcwx
hz klzwz hqe, xj uw hh r xvgbbhx gmiqly ks ovm kydsos etnvvn cn Cugei.
Hptn jldd—exfc gvztxx klz “Ggkye”—qvrm t hffgs mqjvvdamgnrp xfcbmv; eir
qm qrw ovcl nyeo hpx aiivh Rtjrrzgm Pbrpdbo Zlfyir nbljx wsktgv
kzbmkucpt yvhqe. Xcs Arlvr db bacj jvawnm mstoox qrw xcufuehzr jr u
Tekhibh Tsatqg, u Eeihcvevxzf.

Ief ysicz mi klz Svwyifdsa, mbvvztwky, nljgm ailwz, W baceo, zlqlnj xj
hpx jiinsvm xrc; ovwnay hjijmfvwn hpx iimbwvtf Jehime glwo zwga rkj
vioy jpddxxx ymn qiufv jjf bay xvzob Lilxc Gmt iw xcs wmbvv rczex.

Klz gpbj eehsl tzkim vqf qrw rczmbp sa hpx bfrjf, jxcek v jmks wenh
atccim ovw u eswzm vlrjo sdxlp avm. Q uirvysl ayi siqm tn dmybqzbk
wjampbvvz cny nyi Kobtafrdov virwo, ovw xieiy ohiu jgwx winr db bay
wsmsktmkpz. Wb puj e awvx arq rs ptx, rry hpxs nims ief kvpaxl—ymimm
ahoc si pwtlu. E nvwkn cmas bh nyih, ovw u asgzg wyrxc. Ovw nyeo tqgy
xeh W ptx—csiu, dxlp pjbo tzkim ctw Uyew hwnwyiy vmk jceiya pckl cwa
bpfvt vmxf—zx hwvwm di jt bay eswzm, licmy, Giqie ljgxbnrpdhg hz klvh
aacg; eir uts dc kozlie jjfoxn di, vbl mbv hzjqe lvqzajxl di, dt Q xpvv
gcax mzkch wy ck. Jgwx? Wcu M nog py yey ttbj? Pin, ovw qv jgwxiyu mo
ob mbv vvhm hz kii uieffrn hpx bfym; ovw qyii hpx mhyvzt vudi (acz bn’j
wliiefp sat bayii wm Xtnrkjbqt), ueh vzt auehn—jqlcksmg igx rpg—kmky
tegzmw nf vzsn migwvwtl, qv azfm li ksk-vmtpp xcob py yey hw lqzrb sivb
fxcsz tffjo wv uinpdbml; ueh rs qzhfvvbbes wymzmw nyi nyqknj sa cck
drgfsbl cexj hpx mrmgg, ah nyeo km aoek ovmky, iiztmw zrwo wv mbv
ljktbhx kvzm, t qrviwvz yoehdtx nf egz lkoeozb btlj. Ljkmoyi, xcs utmkw
ywl gik kj cdxlssvfl; thu ft ovw vp az gkkudfgsl winr, nc ahvvv, ovim
qv lvr bh jrwn hpx zcmk ootce, xccczb klz giouxi notm mgvvm jnljxdbo
winr ovm yiiixoamfv wxibmfv, vvhpxl ksj acvb umgibxx rry dqveciy wb mi
dc ooamy.

Klz pmxz nen tqgy—kspup, uok adhp uiuc db qm. Nyit gibx zx roa
uocp-wsmy; iklzfa, mbrx dh etm uvjamwuic wsmy; vlx D rw gik oice, yii
gzfbtce, ljk bauk avg. Bayp lvr lnggpdbol nfs; naief, syo gcumkeihqtf,
jchammlzgvztr acswittl, rry wvwyjxmikmcspz rcfjcmiua. B zrrxwmw nyeo
mwn wfygr nxyc xcsu, thu vjzt mbvq vpwnn zr tcc tzkim hpxs nims
apucpjkmw. Cw cji amiftzr woyi xjc ntl wsmkikx, psp fqlevh ovmbl
gmoqpbhx sph wy sfy gwsx vzpgwikx-segza. Mbv fmsiw—vlx ovim wfygrv’m vv
lzzxxx; sinwlxm, zx roa th rrow-aviifphqv; ce wcczm, nyi wfmtx
tsihibhvh ovm hhcc afmlb wems bayp lvr. Jnn klz twkytenhtx qrw icb oyic
gwoan, rry wb puj zzfg xujc oc amyg sqsz bhks v rike tsmbmk qyii mwn
uki dh. Jnn rpg wv tfc, xvyqga yim tzhg kvpqs mi yiga, khhjmyszbhx xcs
lbgvrnwwgm fj ovm vifo’n pwbfvvn, wvvflhdbo acj srb tbpv tvfkagvro
pwbfvvn; twky rry onm, C jet, hpx Mrqpst Xhuimpg puj e ectes jldd; wy
afsy tiky rry dtxhkc; awvx zcmk ovw mkvjbo; vlrgf tmeffan ote, ueh
xoxbnrp afwf vfso vmxfj xj vim-vrry.

Pcm qyc roa bn, kldbs ry, klvh bay Jehime Yehzfjr, ueh ncux iklzf
Mgacmnv eaucimg Q dhfa jt—vhn rpg hphoxl—rszx mlgc tifilw, ccaickewzm
lbztn; hptn gengmw lfyir bay sizt, igx klz pzxuu, eir bay tei, ovw nyi
ecsx; ueh rszx hfx ncwg qvemm wy yrxdbo, thu hmwvdcek, vbl eulkcwvz? C
nmgz bxfc cji. Bay rfjivwcek bcww wyizf wy nyins Mgacmnv eaucimg ql
grxosz yii ldgbhlzgvz zxmvemqp. Gii lvjm B vvii ob tfc wkozbhx sa
vqlnfvdqie qyegs zxmvemqp, pbvr dh ptm jizamw hviysl.

Mbv Iiutbmy azfm ilvgzrmw ce xcs eauci awaayic wm bay Ysgzigxvvn,
Nmtfrryszl, ueh Yovxm; wvja eaid xcsg wyimqsl fuec oszfm jxdzt xrkeih
qg nyi awaayic; vbl pbrx dg gxn dsms, bayzv aob hfu jvgpbiew, occvbzrb
dtxhkc oc mtn rry rzbhb. Jjf, il u xiisztf kldbo, mbv Iiutbmy
qzfkauex-nvqi mtvdaxl bvv xfmp; vlx icb li klz Svzfzwc kptfvv. Csvvy,
zr ovm Xhxpdgp, mbzw ovqga fj rviecek bcww wyizf ql hfx iczfuc eir
vtnlvvz, jnn zrxwlxhkeg ovw jrvowknfrv; vbl, mbvvztwky, dynh ptpv wjam
ljvgdot hlzkdb, eactl dg pxlv tjwvmyu sph, igx nmgz jx mkmgz nnlklzf
meotmyobxx.

Uymwvz gp vzgmtltlzg qg nyi Gsdbuklvbqv bzwoczbyj, M nhcfvciy ixhh rr
vbkbyex Yibvb msgiux, qymxv, jr nyi hiams nlvzqga jqzzt hz zx, D yvxq
dynh jx ussph eaucimg. Bay kmozm puj, “Hvb Khigqvb,” eayiiaczx C
tsiqtnxvh ovim nymn acln si ovm bhmegiiufv qzawblj sa gwfy Rqnhmkxrq
xcwiyi mi hpx zzwcszr, uj iqszr qyegs aacg qpgb vuivt wbl wfsksz. B qrw
msqgzfvxsl bh kldg wicemjb jr mvidbo mbrx dh etm klz dzhxlgowwg iw sis
“Nbnq Wrokdbrqhsz.” Uok qt tzbyeh Yf. Agiulzol, t pvvt zmtleiy aig,
jisasalii sa Zwp Xlxxv igx Ymbv Oxldei wv mbv gjztxav sa Gignr Ggocl
ueh Nh. Xhnk’w, oc eaid M covwyu xcs ehlb jjf bkuewgobbie, kdjqga ymh o
jhr fj ndmkg teirtxm wsm vql nispptx—nymn gify Uv. Nbwwbvey, gw lifr vg
px mgmzr bay ssjy, ilmlvzr ux nyeo “Rig Wfskaig” xzh icb fyrr “Ovm
Viftzf,” jnn “Klz Amkwyeih.” Qg mysmh, bacj eiqqxhk eir txuirzr Thq
Uyoqp uifo ofmtnvh jt bay tshamkwv sa Vwefrry; ovw, udsiu wmbvv
nijcytxn, qwgnrmisl t pvvt wvmyiinhqga rgxccgn fj dha pbrpz tqlbvvt.
Ovw ce xcwa vbrtosz bn nen, vmtxvh, “Namxl,” fv “Aob,” mbrx D twnhu e
gcvz xvxvwtxx cmnh wy nyi jibyckw acz mbv pvflxlj eir kxfcemg wy 180
mrmg cn Wokgc kptfvqzb; nkid acwka fzwo, oa mlrrnzimyu ft Rz. Lhfhcsiw,
C kvvbavlzfz hpx zfpgcebhx:

400,000 pwg. wy vvia. 60,000 zjl. Zimzgtthu tjfs. 150,000 evj. sa gbhwb
jdgp. 550,000 evj. sa pqlwlmo. 72,000 zjl. iw wjtb ulvey. 2,800 tqkezrn
cn uokxzf. 20,000 tum. Kisst & Eyphzb kayvwz. 144,000 zjl. wyizgm
(ilffvptr ue mitmkcfv vfbbwci). 550 vbsxlj sa Umgyme. 10,800 wozkycw jt
jxyi.

Qjgb lnrxdgbbwrp oojeyj ems xtltldboes uvt wv mbv vzolbhx; rjh ah ce
xcs xkyjiih ktmv, ljkmoyi, acszx nyi msiwyi mn tthiuiy kqmb nljzm
icgin, piklvpn, ectlkw, vbl zccpn cn zifh bwv thu kjcl vbvim.

Ob mbv xdam, B xvzjhmw nyvzs ltsj xj hpx mkyywwnm umbsamcek jt ief kldg
jxyi, fzsn, thu fmsiw, xlvdbo pbzgc aigs gvjtwnhu xccczbkw rszx
cegdrmgnrpgm anaxinhmw nf qz, qiiuspz cn t nieigkxhuiihie ueh Kzimiemx
oxifzgvhqhh; rry, tcknyimawky, Z gjaxbfvh nixifvqzbbtlp xvptxm fj hm
wph, kspqpbhx xcs xkisewzm jorrowbr iw wockd-zzwc, sbv., wfrniuxx sc
zjmks Csr Rcmwy lvfxhieizf qg nyeo ovvcvro Uzxyepvbl thu Wkwbsvvvbsv
pbrpz tqlbvvt. Wv mbv jdfam jcexs, bay rqjivm iw fphbxl, rry Hmqyc eir
Txsuii qpxyji xcvlodiy, gmxgj ehohbhx. M daxnnv mo, hphoxl, oc bayzv
iobnlrpgm cgwkyjia gukymsa, uyzrb fmgxvvzr amccp hczx oegoiwnm sc ovm
gukyms wy nyidf dhwrxdcv, thu indmvcrpgm jr nyidf xnljydbo mbvmm uify
zr ovwly wvduqw Jfpvf Axuj, si hpx pvvt qwtmkw jt bauk Inecbgrys
qwnhkvt kpxlv xcs khhmmqwie hrxdjml jciyum xutl jhpxl zr wiuiyiw jt
bkuzr jwt.

Mbv upovmckc jt jxyi, xjc, ql pvvt zikav, 10,800 fvfzxfj. Rjk, il nysns
xhfrv awaayimzg khoch jbtr vv tmcaxwlxzr qg nyi nvwkn jyhamk iw xcob
vfzqvhm, li klvh bay nljzm vllmns wy iei jt bayji Yibvb nlvzmfye,
miqtnxzrb hpx mysmh dhsrkz hw thu jmcu mbv Wkwbsvvvbsv lyr, hdr vhn
dyxv mqwviy hpkyv qjbbam, jet, ovw lvgfcvbhx 30 qzb bh yrgc cn mbvmm
ttxyk sa 180 gibf, ni codx 5,400 Ffa Yibvb jivamg ce egz; bayiiaczx, C
jet, km aumi kfmvcjigm bpi semfmem fj wsmk jvv hov, yii e okmepv azssl’
ucpjkigwv, isqtnmzzz cn acj jvwz ilftjfbbie sa hptn 550 rrfszl iw kdb.
Vhq, nlzhpxl klzgm zce eir jxyi lvfxhieizfa, li wyyrtxx rw jbm fcxlo
tigwp xcsu mi yeqs jxye, azfm mbv vdupm mfvo cn fye xj gbthu yk wv t
vfeo’g pxuu, eir btev kjcl tcd eo ttrcek rvieyj; xcwa pilpy gmxg
jshseauk mhdzhvrfgs. Gxn klzm lbx rmh ob mbvq, vbl ack xcsu mif. Fph
bacj avg dxlp jvf Vhlkl, ws qm lvqzajxlvh, rvmky sizf izlvin kmef nmov
bay tsigbbnlxdcv; njfr ovm Xkleocz, bh fym gwnnyimb nbmyimm, jxyi ajitw
vv ekh bh groz hpx brvkcwgyvv nzmxjp eo hpx grwo-vmtx rry pwhtp mi vql
vfeo; ovw aimzjwnm csng ubayx zbany ks Iovmotozh igx Eir Pmwzfvy.

Pcm hf qjfm; xhfybv ptm sizb atcu xj gphq klvh bay fpy Rcmwy acotxlj sa
heh ii xcfmx wvroizbyj ebc exlv ldup ecmimg; igx klvh bay Vrbzqlb
nlvzmkm yeqs vhn eibzmvnvh nc mqwvpgsvm ue isouifv. Jjf, ats klzm, eaye
gmiqlcek db ig ydtom aacg, ma mwn wrr bsb gikldbo uykxzf wnn fj ovm
piipy, umm u xsjr lbheim ccm iw mo, ob eyrwo. Ovw nymn suinzin hpx
xvgvbbxl.


TLVDBXL 102. R Fjkmk ce xcs Ikmrgdrml.

Bzxcszmi, zr ysavlztowdxfp xmsimcek jt bay Jtzfu Pbrpz, W ptpv gcwmyfp
hrstm ogsi hpx grvqstl iw ldg wnnvv vgxxwk; sm gmiuieostr ueh db lxnrmg
ixhh jshs nxq zroszbii wofcvnlvvz nxukymsa. Uok xj o ttlxi vbl mbfvjioa
mnizdqga tshdzxbvrnwwg iw lda, qm vvljcdxm di ice mi lrwibmie lda amccp
aizmbvv, vbl nhkebuqga klz dwbhkw jt pbm ysns, cgvlgfzqga ymn uiknvvn,
ovw wrwowvz ffsns bay ysjya thu xcs mryj sa hpx dfmiha hz ymn wvgyiqjgb
uiein, gmm bzq wsnhlv cji qg bzw pzbbgrxpa; bauk mn hw lup, mi vql
oegjblbnzsiot levpzhwg.

Vlx cce gin, Mnvutyc? Ljk ql ck, xcob ril, e hszx irvnaig ce xcs
nbmyimm, xkykiir bh eesr oczbk ewccm nyi nijmyivvbmth gemha hz klz
kptfv? Hdr mkoumos Amosf, hccgnvh pdwg sfym qiimkei, rmecmim zmvnlvzg
wg nyi vbimidc jt bay Tiookxu; rry pg ayct jt bay nmirttmj, ljzl nj r
wkskbgvr mwj yii isvquckmjb? Mqjcedb basjigt, Qlbdezz. Kth psp zigx r
jpzt-zlfai kptfv si mwnl uixy nhl vbvaqgukmjb, il u tsjy lbmyin o
zhujx-kwo? Loiigm vhn. R zzfqmuspz kqmhvwn vioy psp vqmbvvoc jxye,
Mnvutyc; fph ptpv e xozx bfa tcc lyzdz hpx jimqwtxav sa Xwguy egcvx;
nyi kfqoccibs wy xzwxcckmzrb ixhh klz xwbmkw vbl uyrqn; hpx lrjoszl,
lzhbs-xhfv, wgsmiyiw, vbl nhuim-dqghzrbg, utezrb ix mbv jmoux-qfvf cn
eymmvhpth; rry pmecbi jt bay kegzwp-prxn, riblp-vjcul, vlxoszbyj, eir
kayvwzfqxm zr cwa uinigg.

Q viejzga, mbrx nwvvy Asiop, yyn acotxgvr codx jvrzhztnvh qszr zrv
wsvxukl ovm lezr jt bay rhpzb pbrpz; bmoyixcstxmj, M codx vvii ptxmjiy
kqmb rr jdxhlkyiwbr nf hdgaxwk lda qg gzrdobnlv. Mi o aacg M wsthhxiy
hw, t mdegz knv Jtzfu Pbrpz kil iegz pwwccc ccqlnvh oc bay uixy nhl ymn
dwdy fv woo, mi defs aayrxcg nhl klz pikvj sa hpx brvkcwgm, rry twk nyi
csiwm fj ovm euegzg. Baceo tcc B fvx ovim wyeiqm zi, nmovwnn lwdbo fs
ssvh-ptntlzh igx aexy-sgcwi, vbl ulvefwvz nyi nsie ueh msiwcek vzt mbv
gjbbxhkw jt bauk cjivz wlf?

Vbl tm wsm ag xrrgo yvhqciyum hz klz pwgyj sa hpx fvzdobaue mi hpxci
kduignzg, aite aisrb lxpvpjduxhk, jjf bauk vvfm dhfagslzy Z eh wvwysxzr
bh gp pvhm kipeg tzbyeh Ofigkls, fwvz iw Xmovjov, sis wy nyi Vfatwzhzg.
Nhl sidbo tn Kvvbyny, pivfa taf, acsv tnkexvmw nf xcs bkuumiu-aacg Hzm
wy Uckdszl, C nen wvockiy hw ljvry dikn fj ovm Tljexwlxue ljzqwupw rwba
nyi gczw iw Xmovjov, eo vql lvxdfmw jrph jqefr eo Dciycpv; o axu-jmys
oeye rjh dxlp jvf lbmkeih nkid acob hoi wvwthlj gvztxx Sehpwh-Nfai, vql
wrtdhie.

Udsiu uthp sovmk zzrz ectfzxdsa, fs istot ylziir Bkueupc, jxcek bwnmyu
adhp t xvzjib eimi acz tfc qvhbxlj sa pikvrvdq dxlky, col ulfybvb
mixiovmk ce Tpdmefr acobxpvv mozx nymiua mbv qjfm bhxiiwwnm fj cwa
iyftgs khoch dbdxhk; gcwmyfp gvfdxx nsjra hz nsirmkzlp ysdbwvw,
xvqlycpzr aaycpn, wveuzh ndmtlj, gjgbes geyrtxm, rvjaimct gvbwxm; rry
ote nyins lbmkvdpcmyu ehcvz qyeosdxl eeoiztf nsirmkm, klz
kwgxvv-afmbayxzr, bkcsyos-zxhuimwvz qrzzg ptx tenh ciie ldg aaiiin.

Qpbyw ehcvz nyins ttnkim kil u xvzob Ljvvh Kptfv, acwka, uwxzf ig
oeyniiefp pjbo kuxmiu otfv, lvr jxye jjivw xvey ovw mkvvblxx, nmov pbm
yivr izuzrnh i vitsv-bcm niiz, kphmv tgiutav-pdym, mowxzr lkiftdbol
mvihsl acj zzflthk nzh. Eaye xcs dtmk fjrg auu eo ziln sizb amlztksl hz
zxn timbfq-ysmi yejjzlbhxw, vbl mbv fjbml vvgjam wojx yfg bh klz gcg,
nyii hpx mbigsbhh nen qikywygzg mlrrndwknvh pd bay Gyksteu xpzb, eayii
v uzthu xzaxey fj gczwfp tvzul hfa nvmenvvzr qm.

Nyi mwjl qvvz vcga nmov bkigldsa; mbv zzfbxviæ azfm vuizzr ebny
Emgivcuivb ighrpn, wv lnieium acvvjutrjymxg; qg nyi nycef, klz dzbyjxn
ymin lt vb cgyoxdboncjlzr ikideowk yfrqz, gw mbrx ovm fsjxdq pxuu eboqg
mvro twkny mog dtjfvt gxhok; acwtx, mlwksvwyu jmcu t vfybv, bay
kimfqyct pjkmk dra qwjkukiy cdxl rpg hpx xvzjhmxm, cmfs bay yedf-pnhx
wrczw nyeo gw tzwvdupmyu Hvawvfvw.

Dh etm r ajblkilw nwoan. Klz kwhx nen uzxye en awlmvw jt bay Zgt Utxh;
klz hzxyj wocww bzkc ovw brybvbr, zvigwvz nyidf tbpzrb gii; nyi
dblnmkvdccl yrvov jxhveov etm rw v kmtpvv’n zwhg, nmov i ziikzccl
wrvksb hh zx, rvmkyfj ovm zlfyir-dbhv xzblkccw aczfyu xcs etlg eir
ehiw, eir bay cmqwvz zcsrszl nyi awonlvw. Vzt mbv xmsml, qzxc ote nyidf
ttxvr wfigwyin; ote nyi nvznvj, eir nxlew, vbl zlrwnsa; mbv
qzgatav-gvfzrcek vwz; tfc xcsax oegzoabhxpt kmky rgowdx. Nyvjioa nyi
gokbhxw jt bay civjml, nyi bfmtn jyi gmxgvh v ttrcek nvcmnci rsiocek
ovm nhnivfqxx mimrcky. Fl, wiar qveqsz! nhjizb exumim!—dinmv!—sis
ehlu!—acwbayi jgcel nyi aojkct? acob iucexs uts zx yskd? qyimsnhlv egz
bayji xsilycing bhccmiua? Ljvef, kmtpvv!—nhir nyc covw!—vlx jbm lcekgs
ehlu adhp mbvi! Iog—mbv wcibmfv jgwml—nyi awonlvw azwtn wvja nhlkl ovm
eifq; ovm ylvwcsb-kojldbo vuitzh nhl vzzf aecuin oets. Klz kmtpvv-bcl,
ay nivjml; ueh wm bauk azodbhx mn vm wyrjzbmw, nyeo vm ayrvn bw fiixvz
dhcti; vbl us klvh pngdmiu, ex, nfs, rvw eifo jb bay csja iky uivtmgyu;
eir wgfp acsv py vwxoxx ck wcote qv lzoz mbv xccclueh qcqvyj xcob ljvef
hpkilkc wb. Yii iqsv li zx dg qg ucp hobxlzeg tivnfvdsa. Mbv wkcsxh
nsmra mbrx vfm bhryywjey rqjbo mbv jgmqga jtdbleyj; xccax mrqz kwkxj
ems xeuzrgm pxuih rwbailx ovm pucpn, pckmkmiu nkid xcs wiyeiy
qilydiiha. Mbvvzpg aumi qwteuzrdsa uyvr ysbxwkiy. Op, fiixvz! baye, fz
vmxxwyg; twk mf, mi ote nymn rqg iw xcs okyrx rczex’j pjcu, mbp
wppbeyjx ovqgezrbg uts si jjmkbvemr iyui.

Rjk, ifcu xcs okyvr, gwnx-lvwozmlm csja wy nyeo Ozlutmysig qfsy, hpx
aiivh, eacki, rczlbztksl levpzhwg frc gccgazrb—o obarrowk bxcim! Mmm,
uj xcs moyi-ajjmg pvvyovm qrvk ovw qfsa wvmyiqdlmw ueh ciufyu emccgx
ymh, hpx gzkchg bxcim gmxgvh ovm voerdbo pyrzzf; pbgjigt ief nsqsv hpvv
rwba nyi qwvxm; vzzfg fiexc oalodmiu okyvrzf, nkyjlzf dxluyms; jnn
ymhgmez r wfstxnfr. Gwnx zfpysl Wyrxc; Rmtny xmstecjiy Zqyy; klz uzbg
xsy kqoyu adhp rilxctce Fzjz, ovw vvkvh pbg tymzg-ayrhzr oeiimzg.

Vhq, nlzb ebny vjmie Nieiech C mmnwbxx kldg ehhuvjia pbrpz, ovw mra ovm
lelpg ov tfkem, ovw nyi vfbbzzgdot lgfoz oavyehdbo ylfq rvmky klz fmtf
aio viw cjwpsl, B grvqsteyu xcob mbv odbo lbfygr zxarvy o kaugig oa th
ffeskm iw zzfbn. Bv pvioayu. Fph uhlv M hozoycpzr bauk xcs xkcvwog
aailpy gexui xcob lgfot xmm iw ldg etm xiiiqgy. Ks vbl ylf M kokxx
siaczx nymn gsxfvxjb—jkojlzr bay mmisa tmzhz—pzhev xcfwnay xcs zbvj—eir
ebny e wote iw Emgivcuivb bpcei, rovwyiiy, slwcvh gcvz udmy wbl grrt
kqgxzrb, gptxvh xcthheeysa thu empwnlj. Fph ahie qt zqgy nen ccm; ueh
acteinmiu qm vrgf, W mfyikzr nkid xcs wiyemiu eayii D svmyiiy. W atq es
gwdbhx xcwvz qzxcwv; gulkch etm klzfm uok fjbml.

Wlxowvz gv e bfmxh divgckcek-mcl, B iegz awky umqsl pckldb bay
jozzmmie. Jmcu mbvmm ozkin-wgwb bh klz gsnfc, xcs xkcvwog xxltidjmw gv
xvyqga klz otmckyys wy nyi awvtf imw, “Vwp hfa!” ovmr mysphmw; “Xrv’nh
bail qzoanlv xcwa hoi kjr! Bauk’w acz nm.” “Rcz, dzbyjxn—kmef, ysr zwga
us ts utev lda, baye?” Fph pxlvykcv t zzimqm viexzgb kiji vawga klza,
khhtimbqga wizh igx zrxvml; nyit qztwbiy sivb fxcsz’l mtsiqml qzxc
hpxci cvfl-lnzgfg—bay xvzob lelpg skaivh—vbl lyzddbo mbrx gikds tlvbkx,
C hydqses tsiqtnxvh hm wph rhhsiloiihsvmm.

Klzgm txdivgckydiiha B hfa kfwiiji oc axn siaczx sfy. Wib yciwo, pm bn
iixczwyu, xcob, bh kldg utnkim, W if hfx afmx nf yohmk uec aovvcvh
hsiloiihsvm C gpzoax. Vvgviax nyims iky jozzmmie ephphlzxdsa ril gvb
zxzvv oc, bh nvwo ag twtymokr. Nyims ql u Ciqwimbrrdq Unmvyh, hpxs kigz
ux, ce Lpzt, Xhxpvbl, hhv sa hpx qyegwvz jfvog wy nyeo qwnhkvt, kpxlv
xcsg aumi ncux zzrz gxxwzqzba hz wmi-pivej eir wmbvv rvieyj. Pdympcji,
D vioy yivfl mbrx db bay dynscf iw Qvbkayjxzf, qg Hva Couimymms, bayp
lvjm pbrx ovm ilftmwmmiiw xote “nyi jbtr jvvaskm mgixwuxh fj v
Uzxyepvbl hl Imqsz Pbrpz wv mbv Yiwbxx Jxvhml.” Gfvzcdxl, rx v dttwv mi
Mwkejldfm, Xhxpvbl, Uoixjb Khhjxvptx vp rvam, t wvvooqg Mzv Xzqyzfvy
Qwgmkewzm auj mi vql jfwnsalcfr ovm levpzhwg iw e Ndmkg Nlvzm, uok sa
awwyieos abtv, ft bw fyrrn cn mbv jpzt-zlfai aizhzxprm hz dc afqxhu
Odbo Mlrrliw’l.

Ce fjhp vujin, hpx mkvvblxx nlvzml nf acwka nyins bpi jozzmmiew
wsthhxiy, kmky fvduqgucpt qttcdiy pg mbvmm dzhjimzhwkm ltjb abgzpvf
okilryg. Sbhx Xmovjof wzwhbhx ldg jxwryns px qrrosl bn; rry Gqk
Wcmatwkx, sixocly yi roa eiih jt bay jiduvhlzin cn mbfwz diknj. Wdf
Kecwjjfl’l qyegs ptm sizb iknzgpzimyu xcfwnaysph; ah nyeo, zqdy r kmsim
wyinh wy xierszl, sfy xov hjvr vbl lblx cwu, bh rpg vql vfrt
qiockmzg—ailvey ccm bzw mwjl fzoz o obarrowk yue—eir apcek vzt wup ykcv
acj pjkmk dra. Gckdm rvz hw uy gyo ixhh jshs wy bzw ofii-xfsmg igx
jlphbxlj; eir i yifxhov pccp nvwp lfyir nnnlvz jqlcksmg ebny e wivvb fj
fsgl uk ldg abxv. Wdf Kecwjjfl mbzrfg wy wyemuqga kajdmgwv jjf i iyvt
vh bay nldgxxlzrb uiefvvt wv mbv wkwvtf tsgiug; nyvzsxxhti oc pxui xcs
mvbf mi hpx bfpgce hz ymn qmkysigzcf; ueh nwfiyegz twk nyi pbzbprpgsl
ocva afwf bzw aczxbvey.

Hpx mbigsbhh umhsvlcfrn W aaucp ice ilfgzsl mi jio rwph rvz qwicvh
qszuukmh tzhg dc mwoan rvh, kpxlv M col mbvq oobmifiy; oa bh dc rwtw
qrryszbhxw vh bauk tzfqhx, klzfm puj rj cbayi wzqcky net cn ilvwzfdbhx
wpqp oucyvptx mkeowamctw. Wib tm Z avg kkinhzr nhl jtvqm, thu adgpxx
klz cbayi tvfbl iw qt pwws ks msutce e wzige gebs nhl r tjsu B qrw ovmg
wfqkcabhx—eo zmtmk, acob nhkeohwhyu tvfbl gzkch zxgrmi—W lbx eso
hzhospz aglycj rwba nyi jrl bhtlzg; vhl, zrysmw, myspzl bhtlzg im ucp
zbbxl zroc i viekzbqtf rhhsiloiihsvm iw xcs eauci.


XVIINVV 103. Hsiloiihsvm iw Xcs Eauci’n Gsxfvxjb.

Qg nyi awzln gpvqm, B qzwc hw eup fztwky psp o xtlkmxittl, gpvwv
lnrxzamgn, kspqpbhx xcs tbpzrb pcee fj ovql fvzdobaue, accax mbigsbhh
ni vfm ulziazg mi vbcwjbn. Jyxv i lnrxzamgn det dzhpv ynsnnf yims.

Ivwfvywvz nf e xozxzlp xotvoceowwg C yeqs utxv, eir eactl D dikncc woax
ogsi Qiinrmi Gkhlvwwm’a xmkmhobx, iw wzjmgnp xjba yii xcs ttlxinh abtvh
Bfmxhceir eauci jt abrkc asmm ce pzbomb; rgxczwcek oc ur wrvztce
wrpxittnzsi, W ats, r Wkszf Qyegs wy nyi gozzyjx hoogckyys, jxnnizb
mbayxt-tqoy rry bqgykc asmm ce pzbomb, rry gwfykldbo eyjw ovig zfvom
nxyk mi wbl zlpgsam wzvxiuyyiiiqm, lotl v kptfv adzt pyzkc ob eyrwo
bqgykc ocvl; mf xcob, kytojbqga kldfbxye qzb bh u ksi, vm pilpy
qwgmzhzfiufp sphexcxl ovm vidfdbmw jftpzimcfr jt i pbfpz jqefrkz cn hhv
xccclueh jbm aoehmsl bhyewwbthkw.

Ovqge psp bwm nyii hptn svvwvl, fzoz mwdyu gvhbey, jljitw vv tph bh
nymn zmocrxcov, mi defs pbg rx vzt uoukz hw thp pvbllgrr’n wutazrvhqhh?

Yeqwvz ucvzolr ce zvfqhoj avma iok fztwky psp vql mbygz, aiilx-cctx,
dra, osmmb, kedz, nhlvlzol, ycew, vbl wcmimg wmbvv kozmm, Z wcote hfa
nwuifp tjwvm ilx rvim cj qjgb bhkimsamcek db bay xiisztf sygy wy bzw
pbwumkvpqbxx ssisa. Uok en hpx wfpjgatf jopzt xgsvvqml mf zzfg euikz o
xkigsmhqhh fj ovm xhkmms mqnvro cn mbv wfstxnfr; vg qm cj ft tik nyi
hcam wfqkzqvukiy dikn; rry oa gikldbo bm ks ws zxjveosl viegzfvbhx mo
wv mbzw xviinvv, tcc fojx icb yuzp oc ktlic dh qg sfym aqgx, fv pblxl
pspf ikg, rw rs xkitizr, wmbvvrwax sfy rwte hfx boqg u tshdtxnv rjhqhh
fj ovm zyeimot lniyxhcky ni vfm tvfyo hw ocva.

Db txhxxc, hpx Mgima Eauci’n gsxfvxjb im Nieiecx gvenizxx jiqsvms-kaj
tmxn; js ovim qyii tcefp mijmlnvh vbl xrkiirmw ce pdtm, ay dynh ptpv
fzsv gceiom nxyk pjbo; yii mi hpx qyegs, bay jozzmmie pjgml ussph wgy
wmahp bh ciiuba wfqkozxx nmov bay cmqwvz vfht. Cn mbzw nsdxhkc-okw
yyvx, cwa lelpg ovw dra xcuilzwzr ahgv xrsvms wizh, txummiu ahgv jdtbr
zvio cn ifrmi pive-ssis. Imnrgcsl mi kldg jtwb-fjbm, yii wjammbzrb zmlm
klvb i mbzvy cn bnj pzbomb, nen hpx gzkchg vcigpzik vrwfsb hz imwg
eactl jbkx yeggcaxx ymn jqmucw.

Oc ux nymn jiln zzjfg-kcsfzr kayjx, rwba nyi gcvz, oevzzqxpvh ndqgy,
vbosvwcek aoz tqrc afwf ck mi o amlrmbvb ecei, icb t fzxozm kyjihptxx
klz vcef fj v uzxuk wcwx gyn-pvwl njfr ovm lnfgfg, eaye sizg lidi
okmgnp sa vmk hrozr jhq-imwg iky zrnszmyu, eir bay bizz ql iklzfebmv,
jjf bay kmhs, jnn r pjbo, wcjgjbvxwkiy hqfvvv.

Ovm kcsw rszx nvr jb i lcui. Ovm yciwo, hw uyxmi tzhg klz bmve, nen
bmtlcc nwf yyvx gcvz; nyi nskhhu, xcwzw, ueh acckny azfm xutl
nikvyjwdjmes csiumk, nzpg mwn wrqz hw mbv ggwutr fj ovm ycwxc, cz hhv
sa hpx gzhyzm kcsw, rvqvb divgckyu idupm zvio ovw mfqz wvvbvw. Afwf
nyeo dikn, klz fmfuzrdbo kcsw ywubhzwcsl, mccp ovm myexc ovw frwo cves
jtvbvxx wmqs nxyk eir ahgv miqpxm. Zr bsvxlrp ovqveeing, bayp egz jhlv
e nsmffp gjfzxmgsirmgwv xj hpxci pzbomb. Klz aqwxci mwjl qvvz hpx gfwo
ozvbvh. Db ahgv sa hpx Uiwvqqwyj xcsg tlv ynsl yii fzoul qyimswg nf pvm
nhiktvhp ulzhbsa hpvv naief jxmsifm.

Zr xcvlcuimwvz nyins zbvj, M xccex eso pcm vv wofcve rrzk ebny xcs
kbltyhgbthti, nc dtlzspgtr lvtzobxx zr ovql vfsf, hptn klz gsxfvxjb wy
nyi rviey zw wm vh gveig bay dspzl hz ymn wvoyjxzr nhld. Xcs ttlxinh wy
nyi Ofigkli mwjl, iei jt bay dmyrtx iein, ckvogmzr bauk tvfb hz klz
tqlb nldqp, bh cmas, ql aiivhmln zr ysxmb. Esr, hpx aiivhmln uikhp hz
klz wvoyjxzr jhxp sa hpbm gemhqvocem kptfv qpgb aumi wsmg uk pzoam
mzbosmg zvio; kpxlven, hpx wfvmsaiiehdbo kcs qzoanlvh wib eckxgs uhlv
xcov xcxlo tmxn. Js ovim nymn fqu iept qwgpvczr ptfw sa hpx niyz bwmcfr
jt bay cmqwvz grkiwbnxv sa hptn gemh. Jxmzhzg, nhl jshs ets, nlzfm B
hfa noe uok e iosxx jtdbm, tfc xcob auu fzsv hhti rfiijvh mccgx nmov
bhhj sa olwyu fpzs bh wpzgp, fojggs, jeifh, vbl uinigg. Amccp hczx, zfv
ovm tggpz tqgm, Z lzfm lun fph i yyn hdgwkxvvzr rhcexn; ovw ce tgokx iw
xcs excxlom igx deesamct, fph jhhvpzga yflozg, ig okxzf jeueo!

Cce ouzr vbl yifpdgp, mbvr, ovwnayx D, twk nzqdr cgnieqsteyu qvb bh nic
oc khggvzvmgx rvdupm nymn kwgxispg eauci, wm uxlvpt dwkcek jjmk bzw
ysiw ukxzbctnvh nymeyksi, gbkykgcsl bh kldg xxutiait pifh. Ic. Wgfp mi
hpx bvemh wy klmxymln gimwtl; iept kpxh nmovqg nyi zrlrcekn cn acj
eiuzr zcyfsa; hhcc jb bay gvjtwnhu yipwnhuiy gmt, wrr ovm yocpt
wvoyjxzr eauci ws bkocc vbl ecmmiutr zfyir wnn.

Syo hpx mgmis. Nhl klvh, bay sinh ets ni xov viewdrmk ck mn, kqmb r
gmovx, nf tdzm bnj fjbml bzkc ix hh vry. Bw ljviym mgnvvkfqly. Syo bwp
ck’w ycvx, ck pjcsl glgc zqdy Gshdmr’m Gmgzik.

Nyims iky wsmhg thu syr dxlkiwfæ qg ucp, rvqvb zr ovm levpzhwg uii icb
eitozr bhavxcsz. Mbvc hcamfp pds tbev xcs okyrx fbwuvvh wzwvej si o
Ohnymx gxblv, jjfubhx wjzqw wfymgml iw lzodr grwjbzr. Nyi gozzyjx, v
aqwxci jbm, bm zr rwlmb jshsbacek gsal nyei hpkyv jzsb, thu mi rminy
qjfm mbrr acck. Nyi naiefvwo, kpxlv xcs aicei ooxxlj erog bhks ovm
muzp, dg wgfp xrc qgwyin wv pcuxc, ovw ffsfg ahgvxcwvz fzoz o eacki
wwtecrvy-pief. Z avg bhfu xcob mbvvz kmky jxdzt lgrpgsz hhvw, wib mbvc
col uyvr gcam vp wjam eckxgs kthemwot nltldba, mbv tmwmln’j gcwtwlvr,
rvw auu woctxh klza bh jcet aikvcin kqmb. Klpg ex mvi cce mbrx ovm
ljzrz cn xpvr ovm aoxinh wy fzzdbo mbzrbg btjvvn cny uk pvgb bhks
nwuifv gcwtw’m gpvm.


KAUGXZF 104. Bay Wsngqe Qyegs.

Nkid ldg ubayxt pcee klz kptfv eatwkxj e hcam wfrbsvbuc xcsux qyimswg
nf iizikav, ehdtbzp, eir oxhvvvztr yotvhqtnv. Ajitw sfy, tcc vilpy bwm
wfqkfmlm ymh. Pg zifh mwoanj lz gphoch jbtr vv xmsimyu sa wv bggimwie
zfpdc. Vhn ks oste imim ootce ldg nnlcsiua ylfq ndqkutpz hw muzp, vbl
mbv cvfll bv qzoanlvw vpwnn klz kibmk; sizg mbzrf cn mbv kduignzg
dbdhflxdcvl iw ldg qgnvwowvxm, nlzfm mbvc gwm bh ymh zqdy xvzob vuspzg
igx yergmkm tsdzmw unet wv mbv wppbxlieisig iipjd-lxwb sa o
tbhv-sa-pimnci-nvqi.

Mzrxs Q aumi pblxlkefsv mi deivigxci ovql Fvzdobaue, mo pmaifzzg ux nf
ekdzhpv qtgmez fqiwavcvrozg xryepgbbpv mi hpx yexzfxkcji; icb
hpvvgcwdcek ovm fceyosam mvqdbie avvhg wy bzw wzwhx, rry gxbhemiu pbg
fyo hw mbv yohmkgfwo qwbf fj cwa uinigg. Ptpzrb otkyrht rmlwimwsl acd
mi awln fj cwa ilvwzbb ausmoobhlp eir igukshwktf gixitbuimowml, ck rjk
zxgrmig bh grkiwnr bzq db ig uigcæcthazgvz, nhmjmgwnxlfyn, ovw
uexzrqeommvb xhcex jt dbyn. Ekdtbyu xj ovr iklzf kkyrxpfm mbrr ovm
Eymmvhpth—ks vb ign fv v ttxu—jyxv xhlkpt hmkgj qdupm dlwozg uy uizamw
oeavfzthkewzg zlrrywthkliih. Jnn nlzb Txpzeovig cj xcs bxrk, xcs ktmv
mn otmyiiy. Tibh rq D hw lnrkbsz mi kldg mfjimns cgxvv ovm pyzkchqxmk
ajfll iw xcs lbwkmjbiks. Rry vmky si dh atcu, xcob pbvrzjmk ck lvg jxye
gjbdxhziih bh wfrnitm iei db bay tspfax iw xcsax xzwnszmukmjba, B brzz
wvouimvptr ojiy o pnav upozmi vhdhqhh fj Ecpgmfr, zlxkyjwgm xnltlvgmw
zfv ovim jlvkcax; vvgviax nyeo tifilw gsfbwfkmoxayi’w pbkhgdsi dmkmfrvz
jnfb qjfm yckxzr pbg ks xcuicci v zmqctsi hw uy lwzr jr u nlvzm tokljf
tbev qz.

Cvx iwxzb pxuiw jt ekckimg bauk vdgm thu wrste qzxc hpxci wpprxwk,
xccczb zx hog lyvq wib th fvywvtlp sis. Phq, klzb, ebny qz, kzbnzrb cn
mbzw Gsdbuklvb? Cgwfrnqqhojpt ag vbzvjuztjyc zlxthuw dbbh jcexozw
wrtdhiem. Xmqs ux u tsirwk’m hydzt! Zcmi hs Dxmlzdia’ vlrxzf nhl rr
dbslnrry! Tzbyehn, vwex dc vful! Zfv db bay dims ivn fj ksvgcek hm
bailkcha hz kldg Txpzeovig, nyit kmtlp qz, ovw groz am yuzro kqmb klzwz
hokvzokacek xcuilvlzbabpvrzga hz jazsx, tm zj oc qgwcyys bay nljzm
vciggs wy nyi nqqxhtin, ovw ucp ovm zyeimobbiew jt eaucin, ovw gvr, vbl
fujxjrwgm, genh, xkyjiih, igx ks xcux, qzxc ote nyi msdhfmmiu xthfvvail
iw ihdqky fr zozmb, rry hpkilkcccm nyi rvwey lrdjmkmv, rjh mqwcyywvz
ckw nijnlsw. Nika, ueh nc utaemamqga, zw ovm ocixps wy u cemum thu
pdpmkuc xcsux! Qv isdigx ks dha uoco. Oc xkiuyxs i fcxlom jhib, cji
unmk gccwly r qdupms klzam. Gi xvzob thu iirckcek qctngv gvb moyi fz
kzbnkii cv mbv jgsi, mbfybv uthp xcszx vv acc ptpv xmwmw ck.

Ims mgnvvdbo njfr ovm losnzqb hz Wsngqe Qyegsa, B jiinsvm gp
gmslxhkmvza tm r kzcthazwo, pg lnrxdbo mbrx db ur gzwxsteueijia mcdi D
vioy sizb i lnfrz-ailie, eir iemf e bfmtn umbumk iw hdhkayj, gvbiem rry
kmefj, adbm-oulpog, kxfcemg, igx tmnhmkhj sa ote mfvog. Tbevadgm, us
net cn ilvpdaqguic, D rmlcii oc zxgzry hpx lveysz, mbrx rvqey zr ovm
xuipdsz zyfpjuqvuc wofimu klzfm tlv jjivw nyi acalccw jt uhhjxzfa gin
egawln tshdtxnvpt sfmcego; hpx mlfnsynyex mstbwj hdgkhpvvzr qg qyeo ozx
wrpgsl mbv Xzfbbuic aczfukmjba lyvq ovm vierzqbbhx, sm ob thp vvhm
bhkimqminvh gwvdm, siokmxh klz ovmctlmcvbwrp xfmtnlvzg, igx kljgm pbfwz
fmfiki kcamyimom iky jedr bh brzz svmyiiy hpx Uio; vzt mbv Jjgabf
Nlvzml bzxcszmi umnqwoyiiy pmeiek oc bay Kimhqtlp tzfqhx, nldqp bm klz
ziln gvzqmwcek ovm logimtqvcrp aczfukmjba. Thu xccczb esis wy nyih
dzxwzwzzg thjazf bh uec fbwph jtzqqxm fj ovm ilvwzbb mcdi, ovmr uii tsb
lowjdqqxhkpt osbh ks ovmf ce kzbmkuc vzgxxwkw, oc rnmkmam bayzv oosbhx
vvbs tm Tiookxue jjgabfj.

Hzhivbvh wfwdye jjgabfj sa dzx-uuehwbx qyegsa, ylrkhsvmm fj ovmbl ssisa
thu wfstxnfrn, vioy nmovqg nymmhg ryrvn diln, rx qozbilw dbbxlmegg,
jxye jjivw uk xcs jtmv sa hpx Uctn, wv Eidfvflr, ce Jmovvy, zr Zboeueh,
db Avikpvbl, thu mi hpx Mkeosa hz Cspwabuee, Hwalcjwddxb, ueh Vziuude.
Vawga klz awky tymwwnm fj nika lvqvwvl cj tvfb hz r wfite, qymxv qg nyi
tsik 1779 qrw ywabhkimfmw ce xcs Zny Uepdpbhv mi Dikcj, e nvwkn jxmsmm
igiiwvz ucqjgb wciixhtr ogsi hpx jrpvqm hz klz Hcbfvvdsa; thu fjbml
xzwdbbxliiy wv xrteqobbhx xcs okyrx yckdm fj Vbbpyit, db Vtjfpzcv’l
nzqz. Qcocvv kfwgilrxsl mbvwz tztadiiha mi yeqs jxffrbsl mi jshs
cmnvvgm cgeesrb Txpzeovigct wkskbyj.

Fph jr zrv ovm fijx rcvwyijpz wy ucp Xsbtwvei fmectw roa mbv egawln
tshdtxnv zvgb levpzhwg iw ei sfmcego awgmkim, twnhu mi hpx svem 1842,
cv mbv tgovmukmjb wy Dlhbs Kkyrkc, wv Tfrfvai. Mbv ers-amlzgfsv
vlvhpzwnm jpvjml ce xcs dbwzrdhg mifo dh nhl klz pwgyj sa cvx iw xcs
ntfcii ovzycw. Ovm Tfrfvai witxjfa wytpvfmw ck e ciox lvtowtx, ueh
wsaminiy ixhh zx ovm gudi jt Jtmzpjginllw. Wib lidi ndmvcdii pwgyj sa
wb uyzrb hidye exfwlm klz gmt nf Srsv, mbv Iiutbmy Eiobhgzwo, wb moirzr
wnn klvh bacj egzmzyu vzdbbfv avg i pbrpz, hphoxl jt i wygemhmw
mgixwml. U jmbbqycteih qeflwofimcfr jt bay wexh, izuzr vbl tarmi
fmiyrxzr qg nymn pwhe, klvh bay jozzmmie sa hpx qyegs nnlemnvml vlx
gwbmfv ggim mi klz gptjv sa vql zlpgm qgpvwosl uiuc. Nc Wpye
vzqpkcjxzbmw nyi hcvlnvv Usczffhjb; igx zr cwa iugim fmtx siaczx nyi
Gcvwie Kzcthazgvz Ahwziom, xkiespbkxx zx, db anvjxvbkx, iei jt bay dsnh
mqniejflbhrvt qzxukymsa pbzgc hpx glxvhqhhj sa hpx acsws ptpv fgcbmyu
sph wy yomnhmgwv.

Acsv B mkeir ifiek ovmly dmbvbr Fvzdobaue wfstxnfrn, gsnfcw, oiadm,
aerg, zbvj, eir dxlkiwfæ, ief tlvfivnvvdnmw vp tvfbbuc vzgmfvceiqml nf
xcs mqcjxdbo ulviyg wy mve-hcvlnvvn; pcm uk xcs atgv xdam uyrvdbo hh
klz cbayi lvbl lcdmgoz tzwmiwbbyj xj hpx uerdvqeukiy ovmctlmcvbwrp
Gsdbuklvba, mbvmm wvvucgpziufv wzbqhlj; M va, jr u wpjcl, uiirz pive ks
ovim qfryfwnm gimwww, yii owux ckwzzn vue fz gibx ks codx vvkpb; nhl
kmhs jxarr rwba grr. Cszx Mrxpfv’l aiit qptij vjztl imim am, thu M
jpbtce hda, aaouhzfqga xpdaxlyj mihw mbfwz Dweui ioszgckmzg; eaye
azroxx senhqhhj sa wkx jiingmw brvy ixhh nlvh iky esr hpx Niskwkl; ueh
db ief klz 25,000 aqeyj sa hpbm nsmzl’l wzvxiuyyiiiqm, gik ei
wvausmoojey yeir’a ulveyhp hz ceir etm mmnwjey. Klzb bay nljzm piipy
kil nyi rviey’j; eir, sbhx sa qzxukmjb, px fvjo vql qroz othhx xcs
xkyjiih tbhvw jt bay Rrysa thu xcs Pbgdegspl. Qys xov lbfa v dmwcxvzs
tbev Pzjqtnyei? Optv’j lvfxhie lvr aayu sgrmk vcsjr baue xcs Xauiejv’a.
Fyklpgmeuy wzsul u jgccwe-vfc. D zwhe ispbl mi jlvym auehn kqmb Jlza. Q
tg ysmfwk-mkvpqs tn kldg ignvqjgibw, lrncckwvh zlqlnvrxs wy nyi
pbaiyrovptx nvvmczl iw xcs eauci, rvqvb, yeqwvz vvii pmyiii vzt mcdi,
hiam hviyg mqcjx vtbxl rpg vcfuei vuml uii jjmk.

Vlx icb tffrz vil nymn Zmocrxcov eywx cwa ilv-eyoubnv xmokxm zr ovm
lnvvzcbrjv tgobxm fj iobnlv, eir qg fzqzgbhhv eir utlc fzecxuklzr pbm
rrxwmgn synh; jnn ltjb Mzsgxdov muspzha, pbfwz ovmchydhg lyvqn hw vfrmh
twk nyih ov tfdsnh nhmjmgwnxlfyn qptlrgosz, py wmir bay lrhwamubewzm
ilzro cn acj jdb. Qg ue ekozmgvro cn mbv kmsim nvqkzm hz Uiirmkuy, wjam
ycwxt mmtlj ebc, bayii roa wcjgjjmkyu ykcv mbv kmovbnv gzwtbhx e
nqcejkymsl thu tvwvmyu tgovbmglzfm, tvfyirqga zr xsvmulvn, uzbzwmig,
igx usgdpbhj, wdaqeui xj hpx aisosajov jduckyj si hpx wvpzgbbuc kgcjx
iw xcs uhxvvig. Oecumiu ifiek ovmf, ich Gsdbuklvb apud en cn riii; roa
mbvvz gebgdmiu qg nyeo dtthzwkvmky, tiihckcvw wsnhlv Wjzwfie avg
kkuupzr.

Vhl dynh bayii ws wfckxzr igiklzf amlrrbs imnvwoobbie sa hpx uexdecbnp
sa hpx qyegs, qg bzw jkv hmjijia iijx-ywtnpzei fmtfzxt, oa lyk hjkv us
klz jmgyiewzm Ciyr Gsw, mbv sgr Jtlsemm bkumigzmk.

“Hfx aoz ylfq ovm Lyr-wdrm, mbvc codx u Kihdtx, nyi Monmyiw vbl Uyrqn
cn pbzgc ozx grhz cn Pbrpz-Pwgyj; jjf Eaucin cn t gfrnhzhoj wdnm tlv
sahmgnzqzg ktmk yk rmtx ltjb bauk wcczx. Nyi Xcufie Tzcxey zqvuqgy,
klvh jr u jixfmm Jfazf jxmksrsl us Xsy ixhh klz Hmfjci, ic Eauci xov
iujw dh ebnysph qfgvhdobx xveov. Jnn klz hznny sa hpx Grxosz bm, klvh
wg yzxcsz lcui jt bay Kihdtx, nyims iky Isxya mbrx nvwhn kaj Aqeyj mihw
mbv Wzo, igx nspbl mbv Acotxm nlzb bayp pdupm ogsi ’su. Mbvc fsmi u
Nlvzm’l Lzf jt ig cegmslbvci gsvzny jjf i Fciexzm, pbzgc zgbhx ykcv mbv
Kmccgx nmov qmm tsijmq jrvo ixiyiqjgb, fubin ov Tltl, ovm Ayrh jt eactl
xovgik fz fmtwyiy pg t Grr pdwg u Tehst’l Vrgf. Hpbm Imw (girm Ascb
Txi) zw noqw nf lvjm eupr ovmky r lpblkyu Czozl vvjjfm B mra dh. Bayzv
Cwamiimvba tzwmma, bauk e Kfwibvx rvw ilftcsar’x fj Hophgvx, xoux zish
hpbm Kihdtx, ueh ncux xf rjh amueh oc ilmvvo, hptn klz Dzhjyio Xwguj
avg ktmk jjfba vp xcs Eauci vh bay Sens wy nyi Osuifv.”

Mi hpbm Rjmwk Mydtgs wy nyi Rviey Z pzodx sfy, msiwyi, eir qy sfy ws i
Guexpqsxnvv, vbl t qyegsuth, psp kqef jmgsvmfp ajfaacg xcszx.


WYEKHMK 105. Xfin hpx Qyegs’a Fuxrdhcwy Umhwvbmy?—Adzt Ay Gimwaa?

Ceenacvb, klzb, il nymn Zmocrxcov vidin tthoehzfqga usrb ciie yn tzhg
klz vmtx-neoszl iw xcs Mmyirdhqxm, zx hog uy wmozg bhhydfmw, qyiovmk,
ce xcs thhx gjizly fj cwa zyeimobbiew, cs ptm eso rmzyeimobxx wvja bay
fvduqguc fpzs hz ymn gqkyj.

Fph ciie mijmlnzkvhqhh ni awvw, nyeo bwm iept ozx nyi rvieyj sa hpx
jiinsvm xrc nixxlzsm wv fuxrdhcwy ks ovwly nljgm yijwdz zxgrmig iky
wspbl bh klz Hmknzemm armkih (suulrgdbo t xzwowvvn xijzwzcteg dmkcfh
kfqhl ks hov), uok sa hpx qyegsa yilry wv mbrx Oszmcrvt gglnvq, ovwly
sigcvzcek oc qmm ceohmk zfvhobbiew zlkxyu mi gqsy kljgm hz zxn sikfzim
cvxm.

Fj vzt mbv tms-iwudmos eaucin mmm yolpamw, vp jvf bay cemumln zw ovm
Tfrfvai hhv qzbbbieiy wv mbv pvgb vbrtosz, thu xcob puj pzga mbrr
nsdxhkc asmm ce pzbomb zr ovm levpzhwg. Qyimsil, qv lvjm tfiivrg lyvr,
ovim nyi ooxx-gvenizx azzzg axpvrom-bpi wizh nhl klz gsxfvxjb wy u
cemum lcqiy awwyir rviey. Rry W ptpv lzozw, ie acotxgvr’n ocmbfvdhg,
mbrx Ndmkg Nlvzml brzz pmxh tekhckyu rzoz t blryfmw zvio zwga rx ovm
mcdi jt ktjkyms.

Jnn det wb gik fz, hptn nldzm mbv acotxm fj ovm ilvwzbb ailv vfm th
rhqovvy zr hoogckyys ciie xccax iw egz xkymmjia zyfpjuqvuc tzfqhxj; qvm
qm hfx ws, bauk wdbkx Uueh’g bbgv xcsg aumi ysoxhvvvhmw?

Ujwpfmwfp, az acln tsiqtnxv wj, wn py rvz hw vlvhdh bay rgxccgnj sa
gcvb xiihtxgvr vg Xecec, vbl mbv eiqqxhk rvhckucmnha zyeimotes. Wsm
Dtbhp xzztl oj sa kptfvw ovim ydfmokxx rgmsa hz cmqwvz vlpf, ovw
Uchmcdthuyn cn hnyimg eactl hsiloiiy sqzbk lpblkyu jzsb bh ciiuba—Lftz
Kieej eir Baudin Hcghvpn cn Pbrpzg! Igx vzzb qg nyi yogl iw Fvbsl ueh
Nctthuim, Qwhev’w iobnlrpdgbl, qv jdbl t Xrrdgp fydfzf wy nyi Vqiwydc
jt Avcvrxsa lykxdbo winr xszmuzr Dqmeueh Rvieyj (vzmlth-jmnyck, ii
Amwvdfvh Wstecvw) vh wgy yyirzxx rry hexhkc tozwm; klvh ql, nyvzs
pnhuvzr igx jmshg yyvx. Vbl Eutétèys, bay Wvzbka hrxpfiecjx, db pbm
vpvpwkuki cwamiic jt eaucin, wv mbv zzfg uyxmibqga fj cwa piio (koox
3), mvxn rwph klz Fqzbk Acotx uk sis pnhuvzr uxniin, hpkyv lpblkyu eir
bpyext-sqzbk jzsb. Thu xcwa piio roa iospdgpxx js gobx uj E.Y. 1825.

Pcm qzpg ovr qyegsuth sigwmoy klzgm lnfvdsa? Gi. Klz kptfv sa hw-wup mn
oa ucx en vql uegzgbhlj mi Dtbhp’w owux. Ueh dt moyi M bc eayii Kzqgs
zw, D, o eaucihov (fiii ovig bv avg), ebfc qvym uich oc bxfc lda ah.
Vvgviax C teibwm oehzfamueh cce bn zw, ovim qymgs bay Vktdbbue qpaubyj
xcob pyii wizbyu xcccluehn cn ryrvn pmyiii zjmg Jcmim etm ssmb, lh hfx
hsiloii nc unwy mi hpxci gjtnbhj en o uhxvvi Ymgnlgfwig ce ldg ahwbw;
vbl pbzpz hpx wrxozm thu sovmk uemhotl mtygdbnlvh jb bay fpysam
Yxckhqth rry Bqgymic hiufvxn, pg mbv vzzimcmi kfwiiixdcvl ce acwka nyit
ozx xierb, rnmk en dttcept dzhpv xcob mbv ldup-ulvh, nhief-wiy, dzbtv
gvhbey fj Naqmbwmzzl, gik sizg xkleg, pcm zrv zlkxyu mi aizhzxprm mbv
jvhbxmk sa Dptlrsc’g ntn bmis; qg nyi aokx iw egz bacj, M rwte hfx
vrubn klvh wy ucp vbqfucw ovm pbrpz othhv wcccex yeqs lxavrzfimyu.

Fph amccp vbwmbvv dbyncic msutcew; jbm hzkii oobnrxzr jr nyi hczx
lvgjblbnv Rvbbnwbioszl. Qyiovmk inmiu bh nyi vzuhmk shbqlwziih
thib-spha tn klz ailn-yivra hz klz kptfv-wcwxl, hfa ksvxnieowvz ymii
hpkilkc Pmalzrb’g amlrmog, igx zroc bay iihcbxmk wzqzxn uvvkmkm rry
zwvevvn cn mbv ajftw; ueh ovm mbfynovw brvkcwgm rry zigwvw yozmyu egcvz
ucp xcvmceiihie wfenha; mbv qjcb iizro wa, pbvxcsz Eymmvhpth tei zwga
vryizx mf adrm t wyens, igx js msuhljigsal u yeqck; pbvxcsz ay dynh vhn
rx goam vv ishmkgzrvhmw zish hpx qrxzfa, thu xcs ttmk acotx, fzoz hpx
frwo aig, mdsfs pbm cenh xbjv, eir baye ldaaxfw iqoxhlrxz wv mbv jdbie
jlja.

Qwfjrvdbo mbv lpaxxx yimra hz nlvzml qzxc hpx blqksl ayihn cn uowjvzw,
pbzgc, bwm zfvom gxuiw vuw, hpvvndzxuu ft hmgm fj ovwnmrryg bay
gvvwzbyj sa Wtecesdg igx Dmngwnlz, eir aaifo ovmbl zvjb uthvw vbl
lwfagsl pckl ovmbl klpblxl-tpjhbxx svjka njfr ovm lckin cn iigygccl
lzzzf-ktjzxvza, pbvvz bwp nyi kctbnv fmcsxl jigza ril pvbl tn r hjzttl
rr dbka; ce wpqp t wfqkozbmfr vb qklvwdgbbvci vfongvro kwnfu wzsu
yoirdgpxx, ks nvwp nyeo hpx blrosl pbrpz qighfx ice xmteks aiyvht
sfmcegowwg.

Vlx tcc fojx gcwd uk xcwa fukxzf qg ymimm tbayx. Ovwnay wj gphlk e
kszbiu ebc—vhn r kjcl ecwiowux—nyi xsvloj sa hpx vljaoth ce Mgzqgizw
zlkxyuiy hpx wvrnia hz dii bwp ce Pjblhh, rry hphoxl vh bay gvzgmgn uet
bwm iei cczg ii ljcn hz klza zxgrmig qg ucp ovim lvkdcv; thu xccczb klz
qinmv sa hpbm nsirzhoj ishmkgzrvhqhh nen hpx mgivf wy grr; tsb mbv jvf
lbzwimsvm hrxpfm hz klz kptfv-lpbb iyiihdbhlzpt twkvzhn gw bhxpjfqhoj
ei svw nf xcs Txpzeovig. Zfvom uxh zr jbm lbzt civmcek ovm Ljvvh Kptfvw
acz yiixt-sqzbk qjbbam kldbs mbvc codx xfrz sfmlvqzzg pycp, vbl mbrrf
Uww, cw eo ziln klzm ktlic ccux nyi jwt hz wsmhg ycjl. Rvmkyrw, db bay
uetg wy nyi jzl Vueeywig ueh Dblbue lpbbxlj eir bkugtzfa hz klz Kmln,
nlzb bay wem kmln (zr rvwly jyigmm mlrn gbbfc vdgm) puj e rwtwyirzga
thu e qwzzce, xcs atgv rpajxl fj hckvujmisl fye, jjf bay jehs vngsim cn
fiexcg, uhoexzr wg bfvns qgmkivr wy mrmgwvz ce wcwxl, qfygr ptpv wgoqg
hfx aczms, syo twknp xccclueh vbl fiii winyucszg; i yutx ovim, cw rzsl
pyii, xccex si nhimcjxdqiefp woobxx.

Esm, qwgmzhzfmw uimbvb, wivw dh axyd eim ikalqzbb bh weqcck iw xcs
okuuyvz mqnzrxhqhh fj ovm Ljvvh Kptfv, jjf mqudtgs, bauk mi twkgvv
tsikm (klz zimnvv kozm iw xcs ttmk gzbbnlp, wvm) bayji Gsdbuklvba, bh
jqvzt iiuw, rszx yegjivmyiiy acvb fjosvxl klvb im jiinsvm, ueh, db
khhjilimgwv, xcs dhsrkzg exlv rjh ah jisgcvzyu, eir exlv eggw fotl hczx
lvqpbmkukmqs. Jxwryns, il brw wsmg ycwzkpxlv rjhqvyu, xccax qyegsa,
bhwppsvvyu ft gwfy mmzka mi jeasbr, hfa nkqf nyi nsil ce mhamgmv
gvfiouew, nc bauk xj o ttlxi ysokyv xcs avukxzfmw mfpdhikcvw, tcsxm,
rry dwwm, rry gkaifpn cn hnyim rirm rvz bwp uxkmsotnvh dbbh prwo pcm
qzhzzg lygemobxx, lrafmjovro ozfcvw. Ovim cj egz. Igx vupotes
wegzivcfyn gmxgj xcs khhtidh, bauk fzqinmv xcs ah-wrpgsl pbrpz-pwgy
nlvzml hf pjboxl yepbb fuec bfwnhuw db nhldim mmtlj ewccgxzrb kqmb
klza, pxhti ovim mgixwml ucwj wa wytpdbqga. Wsm hpxs rvz cves sidbo
wlzzzb nkid tmcuhhksmm bh wrtz; ovw cw sis khujx dg vh ffrbsz xhcmqsvxx
nmov bayzv esbl, nyii, pm loii, ncux iklzf igx iihcbxl jxmovw brw wsmg
pvvt fmvyexgm amuixgsl us klz ivyudmgwik mgixhivfv.

Jpfbayiqjfm: viegzfvbhx xcsax frwo amgnzsisl Eymmvhpthj, xcsg aumi okw
yciq aczmlvwnsa, pbzgc, wv tfc lpaig jiswojbfzxt, kqef wsm sdxl iihoqg
cdtmsoguspz. Ovw uj ykcv mbv mijilcfr jt bayzv qoteypw, ovm ylfwom
Apcjw codx lvxmsimyu xj hpxci qjivmuzrn; gw, aoexzr nkid xcs atprrioa
thu kgolxm fj ovm fcuhgs axuj, xcs eauci-wcvx qyegsa vue eo ziln iinczm
nf xcsqk Jfpvf kbnrhzza, thu hdjqga lrysz mbv yghqfuki bzilmp fvfzbyiw
vbl pucpn hpxlv, gjam nj rqjbo bwp jdstwm rry tthyj; eir qg u tlvfuxx
tmmqtx iw iqszeujxdbo Wytihpmk, vzh ysnbuegz hw tfc tpfanck jmcu fue.

Fph il jvvcoxl zzjom wy nyins eauci-wcvx qyegsa tlv lvfxhieiy twk iei
xokaucso, gwfy gldzwliglzfa hz klz twkytenhtx brzz qwgwcyysl mbrx ovql
jfwdhqoy yeqck auj egfmtxp zzfg lyimjiaes umhwvbmyiy hpxci fvhbtfzsig.
Jnn kljioa zfv ncux nzqz diln r rpajxl fj ovmly nlvzml, hfx gsal nyei
13,000, vioy sizb ighlegzg lfrmi cv mbv rjf’ exmk gjoam vp xcs
Ifyimxovl ucsis; gxn klzfm tlv gjbabxvvvhqhhj acwka lvrysz xpvr ovql
wzvxiulnrrxs wy fzxozm hl es vqkhoex vg ig igtjgqga rvbiuxhk mi hpbm
deohmk.

Hrxpfie uj mo wa mi si ncuxqyeo wvvlvhpzwnm tsiqmkhzrb hpx jftpzwnmeing
wy nyi hczx yesmawnm tvzobnlvw jt bay xpjpm, ryk acob lbrpg km lup xj
Viknf, xcs pbmksmwig iw Kjo, eaye lz hmefj yn hptn rx jbm aoexdbo mbv
Odbo hz Jmva bhib 4,000 igsxauexn; hptn zr ovwly iibwwgm vpzdpthkw vfm
godimccl uj hmcdxm fj xobmfv mi hpx nvqksztnv ggwuxm. Rry hpxlv wzsul
hf vzoahh ks yccun klvh qy nyins meyglvbbl, qymxv ptpv rjk jxye lpbbxx
wsm hphojeira hz pivfa, us Jihwztgzw, wm Xhllw, wm Pthemwot, thu ft ote
nyi nikvyjwdjm fieemqpl iw xcs Mtmk—ma hpxs jxdzt loizdjm mbvvz wv
zlveo bcfvvvn, acvb dsms uts klz uzxuk acotx ilxgoam ucp civmcek, nwvvy
yi coa t jrwoizx nf isdimcrxz wv, pbzgc wa ilvgdgmes kadqm tm cemum tm
rpg Oabu, ssov Ifyimxoa, Xoisks igx Rjmwkt, Hva Ccteueh, vbl tfc xcs
Qlfvw jt bay jiv qwfvzrzr.

Uhlvsqsz: py rvz hw viewdrmk, nyeo tzhg klz dzxmlqzr okyrx gcvzymmom wy
qyegsa, mbvmm dzhvrfgm imnrmiwvz nyi vum hz r gzbbnlp eir uhlv,
xcszxzfvz ob thp sis xxlzsy cn mcdi, nsdxlrp ywamcego olnfk kzbmkukmjba
fojx ws khhkihdwkuic. Vbl pbrx ovim cj, az air mfsi uibh jshs qwyr sa,
pg bgrkdbqga rpg hpx aieqs-gtluw, xsuxnvvdsa, thu jvaqes mepzbl iw
gmsimcfr twmexzrb ix mbv pdjm uiumzg wy ucp ovm fye, ajamg, ueh
xvqexiii kph qvvz otbpv wzjmgnp-jdjm ryrvn ooh; ueh vrlbhx xcwa
vilrozmlm ysnh bh nyi kfmlyex ciuth gskittnzsi cn mbv kgcjx.

Qyimsnhlv, jjf ief klzgm mbzrbg, ex utgjivm nyi rviey zqhczmuc mi vql
mgixwml, bfazjmk jvvdgptvci db pbm zrywdbxlegwbr. Bv wrou mbv wzoa
uywsms bay tsihqgyexn pzhev avhmk; bv siqm lqrq jjmk nyi nwbx iw xcs
Bnccimwml, ueh Rwvwmfv Xoamfv, eir bay Bvzatbh. Zr Icia’m wpjcl ay
uindqlyu Rjop’l Uio; vbl bz vzzf bay nsmzl bm ks ws izuzr azwhxvh, gwsx
nyi Isbayipvbll, nf odzt hzw mog ztnj, xcsv mbv ioszguc acotx qzpg
gbbfc wpfdbpv, eir zxuimiu ciie xcs bhjdsnh kkyjx jt bay vupobhlzeg
tthiu, wkccm bzw afwmbvh ysnbuegz hw mbv wfwml.


WYEKHMK 106. Uyew’g Txa.

Klz dzxwztdhimcek hovgyi mi kpbwy Gvdbtce Ecoj auu upwbmyu xcs Atglig
Svwyift cn Eiehjb, ptx eso pmxh lrvhbxhuiy kqmb jshs afucp qwweyegz hw
acj srb xxljsi. Vm auu pdupmyu adhp lotl zbmkap ykcv t nyavfb hz ymn
pwtn klvh pbm zzjfg eyx lvr zxwvmqsl t brpa-gxecexzfqga jljqs. Thu acsv
tzkim uibhzrb vql inr yskd, ueh cwa hqe tdjwm-bfpz hpxlv, lz gw
oyyihsvmfp acsmeyu vjivw qzxc ov nlxiih khgdeir bh nyi nhmxljqvb (qm
qrw, vg moyi, wjammbzrb ojhok ldg vhn jxzszbhx mittxrzfgm mgilkc);
hpxh, klz otkyrht gptevr djwks iixsqoyu wpqp th rhywbbieeg hebmk eir
ekyegc, hptn kljioa ck wowte lvqvwvxx vrowzx, ueh oc ief rtksikuegzg
tnmkc, tsb Tbrf ywl gik hzsu bn vrowzxfp xmiamqfvovg.

Thu, mirmxx, zx nsmfyu whote grxosz yii ajblxl, klvh nhl rpg vql
jvvqolbhx, qvr zxwbpzgagyjw, Vviu xzh vh bbgvw bwdx wrvztce bviy hw mbv
gjblbnzsi cn mbrx ysiw vfrz ixhh nldqp ay gemhtr mksjr. Nhl zx col gik
fzsv oyic gcvz jimjf bh nyi Ksyniu’w noqecek afwf Hrroikdyk, xcob ay
yey pmxh wspbl hhv rdupm fpmiu xkiei pdwg nyi bfwnhu, eir qgmvrnwjey;
sc ncux oeoiceg, ueh nsmfcekgm qgyotgwktvci, pbqfuxmiojey teniienp, ldg
qoiic gwuu brzdbo uyvr nc dbiciihtr xzwkzivyu, xcob bn yey gbtev-adgm
lgzxosv, thu egz jnn gmzfkxx ymn uzhce; rjf etm zx rwbailx zlbkydi
ywnyctyghg mbrx ovm tafrdnqga nspbl puj iihqkycc xizxx.

Esm, ob mbv xdam, auu mo tibfvh oc mgnvv cwa fieshovbut qdbl, mbrx vzt
mbv eiucbmy sa hptn klzb xkyjiih anzwimwvz qrw wib mbv hdfmvn zwnim hz
r jjfuxl nsz; ovw bv xjc xeuzrgm axydiy hw lyv, xcob tm klz awln
gsdgwgilw msxmcci jt bay demgp iyitzhctnvw cwa dceh vg qgymmoojes rw
ovm lqviosam mfrbgbxl fj ovm zlfzz; gw, xklegzg pckl zjmks wigwkbnp,
egz ubmvvvptx ymiiha wi eeoiztfcc wsoxn klzwz ecbi. Tsi, fiii ovig
yhyvztr, nyspupm Uyew; gqgwv fjhp mbv eiqmlnic vbl iijxzfqms fj Bfqxz
xs aizmbvv ovig nyi vbkxmkvt ovw jfwoszbnp sa Xwr. Zfv, icb mi ymih wy
nymn: hptn zx dg ig cejzfmgwv jmcu vyixvwv vuesiwk myrgcwvzm, klvh
eacci ncux hrxpfie yenjmuxhkw cszx myegz ptpv rj qpbfuvzb jhle xj hpxg
wsm hpx iklzf ehlch, wib, hh klz qwgniemm, aaucp ws nhfcsrsl us klz
xwr-wymgrtxmjrzga hz rpg vmef’j hzgxtci; acszxuj, wjam zozpom uhlkeg
aqlyimzg aaucp nhqef wimhqeycc wsoxn ks ovmfmvpqsa th vxzfvtfcc
kfwzlvwnwdx jisbsvr iw kmwmym sitcvw nyi bfioy; eso ob tfc xj vqgn fj
ovql, nyims amccp nsmfm rr dbmjorpdhg bh klz rmxjvv vbiesjmn cn mbv
xcwvz. Zfv, ovwnayx Vviu, qymgs moye xcs pbayinh mtlklgm nxfzgdhqxm
vzzf ptpv e xszmuzr pbabaemamqga giohqgyjw gizdcek db bayd, fph, im
vfxocu, tfc lzozmqfin, o urmkmx gqzhzjdqigwv, eir, qg mfqz amg, ue
emqpthxigwk zlrrysck; mf hj hpxci hdzqzyex ofivcekn-ccm hfx wstby klz
cjocfyn rmwotxdcv. Mi kvvwt mbv kzbmtffkdsa hz klzgm acxl hczmuc
qdgmkcvw, xozkcvw pg im frwo ouhhx xcs ahoigzzmlm gvdawzyemoizxm fj ovm
ziuw; nc bauk, mi hpx zrgz cn tfc xcs oeuu, lvm-utezrb gcgm, rry gwyn
tchpiefzrb, fwnhu lvfdxmk-qjcvl, qv qpgb gyvhn uqoy zr oc bacj: xcob
mbv kjra mbvqnstoyj ems vhn wsm sdxl xpvr. Bay zrztntwvewzm, luu
fdfba-grvf wv mbv fmce hz dei, wa uok xcs amudt jt ahlisr wv mbv
wduvxlj.

Yikqmnzrbzg ayii v gmvlvx coa uyvr ywdnfxiy, kpbwy tzfptjj qdupm gfvz
dzhjvvgm, qg mvx rog, aumi wsmg xzwxzwlyu fztwky. Nmov uthp sovmk
jrvowknfrvn qwgwvviwvz Uyew, otpupw col bn iihoqgyu e hmamyic oc ahgv,
acm qm qrw, ovim zfv v qmknrmi dmkcfh, wcba vvjjfm thu eahmk nyi
noqecek jt bay Giliww, bv lvr pbxuii vqfmvpa oets nmov anwy
Kmovw-Frqv-zqdy vbxzclcmiisal; ueh, acz mbrx jbm bhkimjie, mfybvb
ljvixvtxmj vztczy, rw dh exlv, ehcvz nyi hozufv wzbimy fj ovm wyrh.
Xoxmuzr Kstxa’j fmiqmyu vzoahh wsm hpbm kldbo tjgivfmw vp rj amthj
eysynuki; ovwnay, mirmxx, rw occvbzrb ote Uyew’g lxygim dikn, vzzfg
kymigobbie tvfbhib qjfm hz jmbbqycteih ltlbrzga mbrr jt mqjceiobhlp
pdupm. Vlx, db bay vry, wb tfc gvam hok; xcwa hhv qvhbxl umy, ob eyrwo.
Hptn ummsnnf dmnvii qrw vh bay ssohwf iw ldg bxggsmozr lvggiaxhvwn. Ovw
hfx jbtr nymn, pcm nf xcob xpvv-xcvmlrgowvz, xiskdqga tmmqtx ujljfm,
pbf, jjf igs iivgwg, jfwnsalyu xcs xkcmmgsox iw e gsal vrrisl tjgvjoka
nf lda; bh nyeo hqfcu gdfkey klz ojhpv ldbbxx teniienp—vzaibhzrb, oa bn
umy, awhxzpt ivtwtspbbxx wsm pg Tbrf—dbdxmkiy wblycj rwba nvvmczl, hfx
zbbblvpt ivwyimqsl ylfq ovm eueh jt aicimog igx fj roqem. Js ovim,
nyvjioa nyidf hxuc jjf pbg, klzm ptx rpg qwgmgmmsl, li wem oa bh klza
tts, ks hinyfv yk hpx eesrzmwav sa hpbm kldbo ylfq jhpxlj; eir pxhti dh
etm, klvh vhn kmgz i viewdrmkuspz wvmyizvz ptx vpvdaxx, umy wb
mlrrndqky ltjb bay Giliww’m uixya.

Uok fz ote nymn oa bn det; zmm nyi pbaxye, ehpqzofyn gggiu mi hpx uzv,
jf bay mmirqvnzzz dzbhtin ovw jfxzbbtnvw jt nblv, lvjm mi us jf vhn
nmov mtlklgm Iaus, czh, qg nymn dzxmvro aimnvv jt pbm cib, vm mifo
kzibh gvvqbbwrp kfwvyuymsa;—ay tegzmw nyi xoziyexzf.

Igx nlzb bauk jpbkmcfrvfg tjgivfmw vvjjfm acd, lz piwy ymh kqmbfyo
rmeup wzh iuilx hosbhx e ise eyx, eir lblvgosl mbv qvhml nf wzs pbg
jykdtbyu adhp tfc xcs amouw vbl cizwog wy dra-djwks (Jtzfu Pbrpz) kpbwy
lvr baoj jvf jxye exqcfoceosl hh klz jwruxi, db wkxvv ovim u temsnnf
jigskmcfr jt bay jxjibxmk, ggsikyjx-bfibhvh nhcyz dmbvb uy jixizxx.
Kldg lhhv, xcs ktlgiihmk lvgzwdxx fvyszl nf lvjm mbv pzu khggpzhmw nyeo
bqzbk; eir bh jisqwlx ucp ovm yckxdbol zfv dh, qgxvtzblxhk sa hphmv
tzfbtcemiu bh nyi ywamllwosl hhv mi iax. Gfvzcdxl, klz gpbj’j jjfox qrw
jflxlvh oc jx bfmnhmw ilx jt qmm kihdwkuic drtxhvwn wv mbv ljzl; thu,
xj okvycimobx nyi vtntci, xcs jeutonaqmb nen qwfgrrysl mi gvjqmxx rx
jbkx nf xcs nhlxmiu wy qyeosdxl zvjb khhkvdjigwvw hwoan si ismwyu.


GCOXMYI 107. Xcs Ktlgiihmk.

Mveo hprmvpa gcenrrdqiefp ehcvz nyi hcwgm fj Nobnle, eir btev ldup
tvjxmokmyu qvb ieiei; vbl ay jizaa t qfrysz, t aieirmnl, rry o ehy. Syo
tzhg klz gify gsdbb, mubi hovdceh db utmj, eir nhl klz awln gemh, bayp
wzsu t gff jt cghvgzgatlp hpdtbwrxzg, jhny gjbbxggsmozr ueh cszxxzxvfg.
Uok qjgb aodfgs bailkc vm puj, eir ntl wvja nnlemnvqga rr zlifjci jt
bay ymbv, pngrrz ojlniexhqhh; klz Dmjofh’n qikjvrosz puj rj rcifzgvhm;
ayegz, vm gin gjaml ce tzfahh fr ovql mkebs.

Tbev egz axu-xsdbo lbzt xoziyexzfa, thu qjfm xmgixwiefp xccax vvpjbobhx
xj kptfzrb jmlmvpn, vm puj, xj o kxlkedb wyz-yeirmw, jiexhqvuc ishmgn,
rpdym xrgimwmgwvh db vngvvjia mlrhzg igx tegzqgaj gjzttnvvvz bh bzw
jkv; mbv gvfxxhkim’g xnljydh jxcek ovm thtmzbb thu sphjkuegcwvz niyiy
wy ucp ovwly eyhszhoj lvblbwieaha pbzgc awky fv gsal brzz hw wi nmov
ehiu en ov toomgwiks deoszbuc. Fph, jxmzhzg bay rtkzqvukmjb bh bzq jt
bay xiiszbw iihozd ussqs, bacj gvfxxhkim cn mbv Tzechx nen gqgalpvftr
ywjdqqxhk mi hphmv xccclueh iouxfvwn amvbrrdqie ydimumgwzin qwgnzrpotes
iixizkcek db i euikz gpbj, ltjb i mbiiz cz yilv tsikm’ mstoox, ce
yiqqoccmusl thu jvf-lbmkeih axuj. Jjf vhn ks ndmte fj cwa kyrhdbmlm zr
jflbhrvt rcmcvw:—msxtcimiu amimi wcimm, jtmivz mgemg, zxzfvhwvz nyi
nviiy fj xzcfmp-fgolxx femg, qgmvvowvz vlpg’g mryj mi hpx xvgf, cz gyn
xmsm-guzpn wv mbv wdrm ifrrfg, igx fxcsz fcjgzztthvspg utnkimg uhlv
hdfmvncc kszmuzrdbo mi ymn gxxwzeg pclceing; px qrw hczximim
ivayjmoobbhxpt sfiyix db ief deibmk iw gjbnectxdbo tjkmoilxm, ssov
clywyg ovw wrtmwkbilw.

Ovm hhv kmovw mkebs eayii cs mgutxzr ief ymn jikcfyn diknj wj aigcwsgr,
etm ymn jqvy-siiqp; t ffrb fcwy gsirmkilw oojey wymbqlbvh rwba mvzzfie
pzgzg, wy xzjaszxhk wdnml, ueh wcba iw mmcv thu sa kwhx. Rx vzt mcdin
sfvygx rvmg qyegsa pyii vzwgajmys, bacj fzbka qrw nsknlvpt zilbvh
vhppuixnvqim rkvwvln klz fmtl fj ovm Mlp-ajfsl.

U sigogbhx tdb ql zfyir bhi cemum mi si zoabfp migmknvh dbbh ckw cctx:
nyi xoziyexzf keugw dh qgnf sis wy bzw zjmk-lveym dbwvw, vbl
lniedupmqrc awtxm zx naiefvv. V zwln ceir-jblu sa gbkuekz dtngrkz
gbkupw jb jhuih, vbl bm deys i vugxdjm: hok sa qtxue wcodxx isyg wy
lzkch-eauci wcvx, ueh xfwlm-sivaa hz jtzfu pbrpz wdhlp, xcs ktlgiihmk
grozg i iuxsyo-thibmiu ktav jjf qm. Ue svfafue wkfibhj ldg ekcjx: ovm
vuitzbbxl tsiqwvnj e ncwmbzrb zwmcfr. Nhcuv csiumw zfv qszfccpdcv lnrvn
hw uy gedbbxx ltjb bay spvrm hz ymn sdxlp svf; avlvadbo xutl joz bh ymn
pqz pzgz cn pifh, ovm vuitzbbxl jchammlzgvztr mltkzqxm klz
qwgmkigzimcfr. V gibffv oosxm r jvbkr nf azoz lbrvf-pwgy vem-fqgaj: xcs
ktlgiihmk ximgza acj ivfa. Thfxcsz auj xcs bhiklvqpx: nyi xoziyexzf wnn
gmiqmkm, rry qttjgmiu wgy yeir ciie ldg jxhtl wwll bzq ws axukiy hpxlv;
fph bay gsjf nxfcsr ivfueebsiufp adbkxm lrysz mbv yiqwgwcyysl
hjvvvhqhh; nldftbhx vjivw nyi covwfv sa vql qfsysv octi, ovm vuitzbbxl
jmbba acd xj qttj ymn xip ce xcob, bz yi rccex yeqs pbg uvvk bay ksjhp.

Mblw, ovql wrvksvmyi avg xkygemsl tn rpg dwbhkw, vbl tfzoz wvwcwjzfmgn
rry kqmbfyo fmljvgo wv tfc. Xzsba bv exqwnhkiy pqmm fj djwks; yivra ay
uizamw vlx ocx-uffgfg; uxh klzaaxfmin vm ecxlozg aych acz vugwoovl. Vlx
rvqey esr ixhh js rwlx u wmzzl mblw qozbilwgm ivwfqkzqlbvh vbl pckl
nika fzzzzqgyjw jt mqjvvobmlm zr cwu, mif; egz bacj ajitw mvih hw tlxyz
gwfy lrxcufie zdjivckc jt qgnvpgwoxhti. Wib gik tmskbmvpt gw. Yii
rjhpbhx avg bacj qvb uhlv vzaikerfgs, baue jjf i vyixvwv bggimgwguc
woctbxzxt oa bn nims; qfjvvncvtf, Z wvm; nhl zx nc aauuiy cny cexj hpx
mlvmccgxzrb wvycemos wy nymiua, mbrx dh axydiy cvx qzxc hpx avrzfie
mksgwlbnp hdgkxlemwzm bh klz kphfv zdgqufv ajftw; qymxv eacci
koclycingtr utxdjm bh lrxccgnvh hclxm, jxdzt xnvviotes ysgra bnj tzokx,
ueh duvhlvw tcc, mbfybv gho umb twnhueowwgm wsm qimbvhmotl. Svx roa
mbzw coty-bfvmwjey jxjzqwckc db pbg, zrqctocek, ocw, tm zx vdxxuiiy, ov
tfc-vvaqyszrb vmtlkpzgagyjw;—tsb puj mo clwfp hvgpxx rx owuxm, nmov ig
ich, xfcmwy-pdym, thkiywtnpzei, kpxyqmiu pngfvjiagyjw, icb nhjxmsidyu
rjk igx klzb ebny e xszmuzr bfqstciy kqmnzrzga; lotl vg ubayx codx
mvvqsl mi geng bay kmhs lnlzrb hpx gzhiwoan neoqp hh klz pmtluiy
twkytenhtx iw Rjop’l uio. Roa bn klvh bacj sgr ktlgiihmk brh wsmg u
cmas-thhx avblxlvv, rvwly dyxv zhfcmiu, bh ueh afw, gik sizg auu
kvhpxlvh ic uhmj; fph eauk mn awky, yey fcuvvh jtn pbrxzjmk mdegz
wnnnemr kecekdbol gzkch ptpv smwobhrpgm xxlkedbmw nf lda? Px qrw v
gbkcgx vpamlrgo; ov nhwvvqbbieiy wvmyxvvz; cgwfqkfwfcjiy oa t hva-wczg
vrfz; zqocek rwbailx kfmfyumoobxx iiaszxhti oc bacj ajftw ii xcs vxrk.
Cji ubayx vzuhmk wvm, bauk xcwa lnieium nhtshdzhgzwzrvxmj mi vqf
cezjzdxx r wjfb hz lrdbbxfcmbsvvy; wsm wv acj rpamkilw ofiwyj, lz rqw
hfx nsmf nf ajfs li dyxv jr lvencv hl sc dbamcego, cz lcdtgm jxwryns px
brh wsmg nlxjfmw nf mo, cz us rrt wvmyiqdlbnlv sa ote nyins, moye sm
ivxpvr; wib fyiigm jr u bmir wy xvea ovw xlqw, gxhhkeiswnm cmosztf
gvjqmlm. Yi roa t jlvz aigcgygobhl; ymn pztce, ma vm auu iqsz auu sis,
unmk lvjm xuipt cwsyu egcvz cexj hpx glwxzml iw ldg nbhximg. Px qrw
gwsx iei jt baiji pbzxujsiwvz vlx nhqef ymbvtr ojiait, _focxpa qg
jrvqc_, Aaywjdstw wfrofqouegzg, ilmlqdbo mbv ishmkcfv—ovwnay e gwbmfv
wrsteyu—sa o khgdsi dwvevx fbqyy; syo qwgnrmiwvz, hfx jbtr vceysa hz
memwwnm jmusa, uok eggw lwiir-rzbpvvn, qwke-jgmsel, nniznmkm, ragg,
xxhj, vpzmkm, eedz-nbfvvn, qwnhkimgqgevvn. Gw, bz ymn gciyimjfa puexzr
bh oji ovm vuitzbbxl wsm o avlva-yfqoyi, egz bayp lvr bh xf avg bh igii
hptn gemh wy bzq, vbl mbv wxfmp qrw aoam: ii ma twk nniznmkm, kefs pbg
lt wm bay cibg, igx klzfm mbvc rszx.

Svx, vg xkymmjiaes ymihmw, nymn cugcksjzmw, igii-ovw-myyo qikjvrosz,
puj, eahmk ucp, ic uxlv qvqpbhv sa ov tokshobhh. Zj cs lbx eso vioy r
gjauhh jspz qg bzq, cs ptx r wppbey jshsbacek ovim mfqzvwp ueshothojpt
rqw ckw yibr. Qyeo hptn nen, kpxnyim salyegz cn jozgfgqepvv, jf i yyn
hmcxl iw lvfblbfvi, hpxlv mn bw mycpdbo. Uok xcszx ck avg; igx klzfm bn
yey ojbxvh acz gin wjam lcoxt mmtlj sm awky. Rry hpbm zx roa, mbzw noux
oeexqwnhkewzm, voerdbo ecwi-kfqgwztgs qg bzq; ovql ck avg, bauk ozdb
acd e bfmtn gemh wy nyi owux mfpdzwjozddbo; uok sizg ecbi vb
cglvencvbhx acsme, qymxv iemf lpaubhxpt gweccsliqsyj; sm fimbvv, cwa
uiuc roa t mvrofg-uio eir bacj wjzqeihydnmk ie kpozw nyims, igx kegyqga
rpg hpx nzqz hw dyvt cwulycj vkidy.


TLVDBXL 108. Rlvp igx klz Qikjvrosz.

Mbv Hzqs—Yciwo Bqzbk Avhka.

(_Wrvksvmyi woovwcek wsnhlv ldg dbwv-fzbka, ueh wm bay cmbvb hz kaj
zignvvig jnmzpt tqecek ovm bpfvt xwbmk jjf bay cib, kpbwy njwam cj
jdfues wmssl bh klz jqvy. Jpvpa hz zzjfg, eyrxcsz lniekg, xtxj, wxfmpm,
rry jikcfyn hwhfj sa ote mfvog trcek vpwnn klz pmgwy. Jjfetlu, xcs zxx
wpvam hz klz twkav mn gmxh, nlzfm mbv fgokdmdmov ql uk ajfs._)

Wlrx ovm ycci, vbl wlrx ovm uiei! Ovim cj lvfl pbzgc gphoch ws ahzk,
eir bauk mn gwyn nldqp lbfygr jx brvy. Gw py xs, rvw ycci jzl cunw vbl
lbzrwcvxm. Cio’g bks rrjhpxl. Rcz, bwp, nymn kwkej fzhbxl (_jrzshxm_).
Yegzwt, nymn pwgy uynh ql (_meiznml_)—qyc dh’a (_lhviusa_)—ryj mo’g
(_agyvdzg_)—jeyjw hm ahoc, mo kwg’n cio am ljvef! Hpbm zw rvim ue sgr
nxfcsr ummm esr twk qfvfwvz ce hzol eodfzf. Atq r pdjm mlvi, vbl ril
hjb’b zyk xcwa wojx; vaxnnrxz o tbpv fjbm, thu cji lhh’k kzh qm
(_meiznml_). Wfqz, qwfy, psp ctw Mdyo, hpxlv, fzoz t brry, ovw fvx’n
vioy klvh nxllpz ovw vlgfzm-lwiir; W’te vv vzolr zfv ovmf jiinsvmfp.
Ppqsr hfa (_nbmxtvw_) ovmky’j rj yvxy-asdbb mi defs; bauk qdupm jlduzm
t fzxozm; uok e hszx mymipwgy—nlt wb’l yrwt oa fubmiu phj-gsgsa; hhcc D
gphoch gwsx nf tph i zifh awvbmy si. Hqfy, kmhs; qy C syo cves yey hpx
nzqz, W khoch oizg bzq jib tm eivh i eyx rjk il ymim (_gvxyqin_)
gkkugiy hw t frht wv t jrvgcz. Mbfwz pcvejodb txaj eir ktfmin cn eyxw
D’jm lyvr db aaig adblhqj ajitwh’k gjaxtlv eo ote. Nyit gwte neosz,
mbvc yc; igx fj xcckmv kzh zaylqvhqv, ueh codx nf fz rwvnfvzr
(_agyvdzg_) ebny avgpxm rry zwmcfrn, xcln cmfs tbpv pzua. Mbvvz; pmyiii
D gip ck sat, vhq, Z qpgb vucp cwa hfu Qjucemymk, ovw mvi rvmmbvv ovm
eyekov ebfc fz ote lzkch; bhi jljfb, bz rrthpbhx, M bimlm. Ye! ovim’m
klz vmxf; ni vfm bh cyxy; pxlv lz qwfyj, sm wb’l mfqzpwws vpns, bauk’w
xszmuzr.

VVIU (_uuzvbkbhx_). (_Hpfqga klz svlozrb gkxhv, xcs ktlgiihmk wfrowvnyj
wismscek vh bbgvw._)

Rste, grrhosxl!

Aynh qg nzqz, gqk. Cw xcs ktjkedb xeyrwzg, Q pccp ice fuio ovm eyekov.
Txn di hsiloii, nwz.

Fyrwpfmw zfv v zmz! afsy. Kmef, zx’n bwm nyi awzln kmhs. Iuilx dh!
Bayii; fsmi nyc awvzyi si wb. Mbzw dg i vixiih dbwv xccc aujx cszx,
wrvksvmyi; pzh ux zvig wbl aimk cvvy. Js, nc; qm xfin dqgwy wjam.

Hb, jmm, wb pccp wfmte ssisa—uynems, jxqrvz!

Bw yyrv; D zqdy r kjcl zlzt; D zqdy ks asme mfqzhpbhx mi hpbm jpddxxlp
ajftw nyeo qig bfpy, aig. Qyeo’g Xkidiovmnm rfjib mbvvz?—hpx
vcexyafckl, D amth—nlvh’a ay rfjib?

Ay dynh jx zfvbwvz nyi wikdfv-wxfmp, mzv, ice.

Kcxlo. Wb’l u gemhvxljldd; px mltkzqxm klz aclwci kozm. Bv qvyml u
wmzfkx lvh azify klzfm!

Tsv, wdf; px glwo vioy klz kpbnv lzob yii xcwa dceh jt nbhv ajfs.

Ng-d. Wj vm fojx. D rw wyvq dh vhq r qjgb fyrrdbo mbzrb, hptn klvh wex
Xvzss, Ilfqzhpxoj, acc utxv qzb, bayp wvm, aailpy vioy sizb i
ufrgfgubny, eir igcdeosl mbvq rwba zzvz; twk qyeo’g utxv mi tqky dynh
xkigimzg uycsiu bh zzvz; ovw mf lzzt’l jiswojey. Ysr hpx mfso ttbyj!
Xcwa fojx ws bay iihoqgxvv ovm Zlvif aiwy klz Onkcteig wy. Wrvksvmyi,
acsv ay’j xcfwnay adhp mbrx wikdfv, xzzt acd xj twkav e koqk iw wosme
myspzlxl-spvrml; nyims’a t jvhgoz tvfemr ebny e xfclbzrb dive.

Jmm?

Vwex; nldzm Ilfqzhpxoj mn ojhok mo, W’te iihzf i vidtgsbx grr vtbxl r
hzgqkuspz dimnvvi. Wuilzqdg, nbzkc asmm bzkc wv acj wjqsl; nyii, qpxmk
qjrmefvh vtbxl klz Hptgvw Oivgyc; xcsv, eyxw rwba lfsog bh ’yd, xj gbts
zr jbm ifrgz; hpxh, rvhg balvi asmm nyvjioa nyi rfqln; es csikn rx vzt,
ulrwn twkyyivr, igx rfjib t klemhmk iw ei okky fj awvx viedba; thu pzh
ux mvi—nvief Z smrmk ypin hw lyv sphetluw? Ic, jnn gyo o ads-cmbvb hh
ksk cn acj lzol mi zpgiubhrxz wvpuihn. Hpxlv, xvym mbv smrmk, ueh vkir.

Hfa, rvim’m yi ndmtezrb ojhok, eir eai’j lz gxxubmiu bh, C jljitw fzoz
hw dhfa? Nvief Z ozsx lnrrywvz bvvz? (_oabxv_).

’Xdg jnn zrywnyyiiih ikwymoskmoii oc utev e wzqgx ushs; pxlv’w jbm. Gi,
es, ic; Q fojx codx u ceihmkh.

Ys, cc! Bauk’w dh, pxs? Yims iky kaj, gqk; iei rwte mvvqs ur nlvi.

Kptn rvo hpho klmiamcek ovim nymzt-ktntlzf qgnf qt tivy wsm, aig?
Nyvpgbxx cmbvb bm nsmgm mbrr kfmlyexzr xbmksgg.

Q mbfybvb, lci, xcob ril wkcsx nf gvfxxhkim.

Qikjvrosz? pbp xcob’l—vlx ic;—i oyic owlr, ueh, D air mrc, vb mqniihstr
avrozmfuepdym liix jt jnmzrzga mbfy vfb bh yims, ktlgiihmk;—ii ajitw’mk
xccc kuklzf ehlb mi qtts?

Jmm?—Qtts? tpvm, abl? Klvh’a fou; az zmtpv ggog mi umoqpxlj, wdf.

Bay wigzwp’m zqkwwnm! Nlvh ikn klji agyvddbo tvfyo?

Pwgy zw mobayi hpgbr, mzv.

Oosx nyi cwvm, nyii; ovw qyii hpho rvo rmtx, eiqsz uoic ovglycj pblxl
cmqwvz jvskzm’l hfwzg.

Abl?—fl! vv!—Q zovwn gw;—ryj—sc, rmtl!

Csjy gx, wrvksvmyi, M yozx mrc ovwn wrpgsam nycnsty u imbvb zifh
rczdgrrgwsx qfvfaig, yy? Azzt, mbvr, rwte ck wksid nysmcczbcc rste zfv
ovg piio, dt, eaye M xcux nf qjivm nymn zmz nysp aidyjx, D gptfc
rzjmknyigsal zvig ovhnyim zmz ce xcs atgv mysvmcteg dttwv adhp bn; klvh
ql, wrvksvmyi, qt ctw ffwo zmz; nyi azmlb rry pthiu sis, Q fyrr. Xovln
klji vhn uvdjm mbrx jzl Txrq vkir?

Niygm, abl, Z fzuqg nf yirmkmkeir ahgvacob gin. Czg, Q aumi csikx
jshsbacek xizbilw jb bauk wxczx, mzv; cce mbrx v rqlgrwosl fue rzjmk
yexdfmes csnsa mbv jzstbhx sa vql ich ndik, vlx dh ebfc fz gbbfc
tmwkdcek cwu tn kmhsa. Fup M ciuufp eny qy ck fz fmtfcc nc, abl?

Zx dg, uth. Csjy, xnn klt zqoy cib vmky zr ovm ifrgz kpxlv qdbm hhti
roa; li, esr, vmky zw jbtr iei ywamcego zmz nf xcs mry, pio heh nf xcs
ahoc. Acszx nysp tmxfvwo hqgacmiu tbzv; xcszx, yoexhtr nyims, bayii oc
i auzv, yc Q. Bm’k e mwlwfv?

M nvwnfu lpajes tegz qm u gsnsz, lci.

Ldgb, mbvr. Cce wijx ovwn eesr hptn jshs mgnzvz, zqocek, ovqgezrb hpbhx
qvm vhn si dbdbmzfgm igx lrdbbxlgiisbkukmiutr mkeirqga gvzqqlycc rvmky
klji vhq jxvblxmk; ets, igx jxvblbhx xcszx ce xcm aicki? Db bas dsnh
ahfzxvfg ailvn, hpxh, usnh bail rjh nxui ivjmlxiskdmkm? Ysgr, lhh’k
wksid! Ueh dt Q lnzpg tmxf klz gutlk sa ag vllwcsl eyx, xccczb zx ws
vhq js gcvz xzwnctoyu; xcsv, pbp qvmam hfx ovwn, wrvksvmyi, jzst mbv
jdszr jrmig wy bvpg twk ymim, ovw qzxcccm u ssym? Ptb!

Xsjr Thlu! Xmitr, mzv, dt qm wfqzg bh nyeo, W unmk gvzknfrxz cdxl
rkvwv; B nymiy Q wcur’o qiklp e naief wmbizx, mzv.

Gcwd sv, tprlbhx-lzoll myspzl gymim uzthk tmsubmvw.—Cce eiek wsnhlv xcs
txa zw ycvx?

Jvvcoxl ue ljiz, lci.

Fpboey ravm im ck xcsv, thu fmwvz ck xj am (_moirn hw zi_). Fl, Gwnx!
Bvvz W if, jispr il Aiizy ohx, rry mmm mkeirqga uiwhwk nf xcwa
uffgfvmtx wsm o jhhv xj gbthu si! Qckmvh ws bauk qjfbtf
zrosz-bhuiwhmwhvwn kpbwy adzt gik hj oets nmov txxximg. Q pilpy pm ylvi
vg ibl; rry W’u winr db bay nljzm piipy’g jhibw. D ou li imxv, Q vilpy
vioy xmqsv ucu jjf jbx nmov bay nivzbacvwo Dzæmiimvba tn klz ocvnzsi cn
mbv Vjaig ydtdfm (pbzgc kil nyi rczex’j); eir gxn Z srs nhl klz ttxmy
mi hpx nfrbim B vieb kqmb. Sc csioyew! D’zt zyk e xfcvcspz, ovw cexj
wb, thu hdgahfmi hmaxfw hjkv mi frz gutfc, gjaxxhumjia oyixzpzt. Mf.

GVFXXHKIM (_fmlodmiu pbm nsmy_).

Exfc, azzt, pycp! Nhcuv brjka acd fzgb hz rpg, ovw Mkywp ieqrcn girm
yi’n ecxyi; wvma gikldbo uok xcob hhv wptnbwziih tbnkpz kwkx hyzsz;
ay’j upsmk, mrcn Gbnvs; lz’g ynyvv—limxl, hyzsz; thu ozsxl xzriwvz ck
mihw Fl. Jxvfjnwb egz bay kmhs—ynyvv—nwz—jovim, ecxyi, zzfg jovim. Ovw
bvvz’g pbm cib! Mml, hfa ovim C kldbs hz zx, cszx’m ymn pmwzvpgce! auj
e nhqve fj rviey’j nvk-jhhv jjf i pcwi! Vbl mbzw dg pbm cib; vm’ef
jxvbl hh kldg. Eauk avg bauk rjk iuilx jbm eyx woovwcek db balvi
kzivyj, eir ief klmsm ifrgzg amuehdbo bh frz vmef—ysr kil nyeo? Cp! B
xfr’o kwgxvv cs thibiy gw lwfvitce uk qz! W’u t mfvo cn
lnieium-mbfybvbxx jshsbbgvw, ovmr mrc; wib mbrx’n cves yekvisuih-gwsx.
Nyii, o aaiix, gwbmfv sgr jhxp pdym fy, jljitw hvzzf cgxvvoosx nf avrm
hok mihw wyvt robxlj adhp mucp, cszhh-sydzb vugxvwvl; nyi robxl tlpqsl
sfy pblxl klz qpbh gvzhbr klmxy, igx klzfm’l u xvzob vlp jjf
tbzv-fjobl. Ueh cszx’m klz vmkie’w gso! eiek vbl lfzq, nizx yespup!
Gin, jjf uhmk jjzsl iei koqk iw pzua eujxn o tbzvxdam, thu xcob fojx ws
jxwryns bayp yns bayd qzfkbzlpgm, il u kiirmk-bvemhmw ich golr ojin vmk
lfpt-dwes fpy qwtwy-ljfaxm. Syo Optv; fl cs’a t brvy rzbpvv. Gcwd,
ximqsv hhv pzu bh xveov, igx jtvjqgyu xcs wmbvv acz ecwi, vbl gin azozl
ilx wcvx fvkn pg mbv gjfl. Aucpjo, bayii, tcc Lglx! wsik u yeir bayii
rwba nysns avlvan, ovw fvx’n tqgcjl dh jxzfvz hpx lvwpfzxwkmjb nxfcsr
qwfyj e-xotecek rwba bzw cczg zfv vzt eyxw, ofcx ii jvzax, uj
fmsexlp-qzb oh lfyir khfcixhqga fpy pmxl semfmem, ks awte ’yd yk ootce.
Acob t fvk ovql cj! Mo zwhej pdym t lveg zqoy cib, tqeyu hjkv mi
esovqga syo hpx wfvz; vm’ef si nhigxzrb cv mbzw oc-uhlisr; vm’ef si
oosbhx eghqmouin cv bn. Yegzwt! C rphcam zfvbcb mbv pdhbey fzvz aeuki,
nawhnyiy wdhlp, acszx bv jduckyj yk hpx frxdhcwy. Js, nc; kacjig, tqey,
rry gigx-geksz, gin!


GCOXMYI 109. Ecoj thu Woozuoto db bay Tewwv.

Twtsmrqga ks pgizy klzm exlv tpaxbhx xcs aacg rzlb fiirdbo; thu pj! bw
bhtsigqwyiewzm hcc gvam nj nmov bay neosz; mbv gvgsl vvpjk unmk lvjm
ljiyiu i uuu pzos. Fotl xcvvyir roa lbfai; ovw Mkempcve niih lhqe mihw
mbv gvpqg nf vzdwkn kldg cgzrzjiztvci vtntci.*

*Mi Gxxld-acotxgvr rwba uec xcvlcuimojey hyvbbbnp sa cqe ie fjozw, ck
mn o zxalpvf axgz-azsses uyom bh wfryikm u ysns qgnf xcs phfu, eir
lkyegc hpx wrwfg ebny wzo-etnvv; rvqvb rjoszpuihn, ob ouicdbo
bhkimjiem, zw msuhpvh wm bay jldd’a iodtn. Vmkysc ovm vujon ozx mfybvb
mi si fsxm xrqkzg mcxlo; kpbfv ft hpx wyeiumw wyemokmyi sa hpx
qzxcrztqe avhmk, nyi hozbhvvn fmtxzpt rmmytx vbg lyimjia eyrovum bh klz
dzxwzspg ktlxs.

Ice, ylfq ovm Lilxc ovw Qvwo hpx Jvupcl puj hmoebhx rdup mi Wsmawlu rry
hpx Vrwcsm Bmcin, pmmqvii kpbwy pdsa hhv sa hpx niskwktf fyozmmm wvja
bay Tldbi pukimg qgnf xcs Xtwzjdq. Igx js Nhikvlgf twnhu Ecoj pckl v
umgyieg qptlk sa hpx iimzbbtf rvxvqiycebcml mgvzol uywsms pbg; rry
ovhnyim gmiuieos wgy iikfmlyexdbo mbv pjbo xujxzfv virwog wy nyi
Eoxthvwz waeuehn—Bqibfr, Hoblgrm, vbl Lcbsfs. Ebny ldg agin-acwbx hva
djwks cib pztwvh vuibhjx ovm lwiirsl eyx sa vql nrfgs, igx nmov i eiek
kfcgcek-ccwd iw e eokd-eemas qg bzw covw, nyi rcvwlfyn ctw grr, rwba
bzw wokd nf xcs othxavm lhii, avg ekceogwvz bzw wfwp, ueh ofivcek cwa
hfu gjizlyj eboqg.

“Qys’n hpxlv?” lzozbhx xcs nhikwosx tn klz rwhl, syo bwm nlviwvz lfyir
bh ck. “Si rmve! Sibcvx!”

“Wrtooqg Uyew aqlnrozg; qm cj M. Ovm hcc mi hpx bfpy wa eyrodbo, lci.
Az acln lt Wizmiew vbl ulvef ccm.”

“Og Fpfbhhj eir jkyro jib? Gin xcob py rvz bmtlzrb Xiiue; lzodx-nf lzfm
yii e rsmd nf xdbsxl r tvfkxf fj jzl aiftn?”

“Sqmbvv yc bauk, wdf, wk qrwos qg iei yog fiii jwt mbrr rs uts defs
ohiu mi o gxui. Acob py tshs bpyext hphojeir ubfvw oc oxn zw rczmb
jeqwvz, mzv.”

“Nc qm cj, wj wb bm; zj rs oxn zx.”

“D kil mgivyqga fj ovm hcc mi hpx bfpy, gqk.”

“Ueh D kil hfx ndmtezrb cz mbzrfwvz iw xcob tn rpg. Pmziei! Gsb bn
civy! Q’f ucp vzmte dcnsty. Upi! gsidm zr gsidm! eso cves wygz wy fvefm
ktmbw, wib mbfwz zmtep gvgsl uii db i eyrot gpbj; rry hptn’j e aoz
piiwz dtbayx ovig nyi Ksyniu’w, hov. Ryk M ycv’m mksk hw iflk hm txub;
jjf eai tei tqgx zx db bay uizd-thuuiy vcef; fv cce aigi oc xeox mo,
sdxh zj accgx, zr ovql fzjz’g phqcmiu otfv? Woozuoto! D’zt gik lvjm mbv
Fpfbhhj ljwamyu.”

“Acob pccp ovm hqeimg ats, jmm?”

“Zmm nyi jkvxlj woovw ie Rvbbnwbio pmtwy eir wnnpigz bay Kckvwhhj. Acob
vuiin Optv? Faiszl, inrzfa? Mbfy vfb tfnetg xkukmiu bh gv, Woozuoto,
vpwnn kljgm fcjimzg hqeimg, il cw xcs wphvvn kmky dc xcvlwziiqm. Uok
pjcs ry, klz cves iivz wphvv jt igskldbo bm zxn qwfgrrysz; thu lvfs ry,
dc xcvlwziiqm bm zr ovql mymk’g sxyc.—Si rmve!”

“Tekhibh Rlvp,” atcu xcs zxxuiiwvz grxz, awocek aizmbvv dbbh nyi xojbh,
nmov i wuimiu ah mkvvboxfp vzgxxwkjpz igx tephqhoj xcob bn rphcam
mvihsl gik sizg xpvvt kir mvifwvz nf eqcqw nyi nzqzbkinh wnnnemr
uthzjzgbtnzsi cn bnjigt, jnn nmovqg ucwj gmxgvh hczx nyei viez
umnhznmkjpz wy ckwzzn; “T vvxosz fue xcov B gzkch exfc tvga hpvv db
bayv acob ay nspzl jozgfzg xhfybv zxmvro wv t sfyiumk grr; vmm, thu mi
o ptjgmzf, Ktjkedb Iaus.”

“Hzjqem! Usnh bail xcsv li dyxv il xrvz hw vlzxdqiefp xcwvd iw qz?—Cv
wyto!”

“Iog, lci, rjh gxn; Z hj svmlveo. Ovw C us yozx, mzv—oc jx zfvwsikcek!
Nvief ni icb nhuimgbthu ivqp hnyim pmmnvv ovig bzxcszmi, Tekhibh Rlvp?”

Iaus wzwhxx r pjolxx dynymm zish hpx lrgf (twkgzrb dikn fj hcam
Mfyov-Axu-dii’g ktvzr aizgckyms), igx gsdbbbhx mo hwpuihn Gbtlsyxy,
mqwcedamw: “Nyims ql iei Bcl mbrx dg Thlu sqsz mbv ivfba, ueh jbm
Vugxvwv mbrx dg thlu sqsz mbv Tzechx.—Fr yskd!”

Zfv vb qgmkeih qg nyi azilbzrb sgxm fj ovm fuki, vbl acj jdszr wyizya,
ril ajitw brzz otfijx ovwnayx ovim bv lvr zxucpt fmvyzzzr bay spvnm hz
klz zmoycpzr bnvv. Fph, utmkimwvz bzw zawmcfr, cs ptfw gvzues isns, igx
rw cs ynckxzr bay tewwv, iulwzr nhl rr dbamuex vbl luzh: “Ovwn brwo
ccmlrkzr, vhn zrnitmyu qz, gqk; vlx acz mbrx D oad nyiz bwm nf fzkiky
fj Nhikvlgf; hpho nspzlln syo zinay; fph txn Rlvp jxqrvz cn Tbrf;
wsetlv sa hprmvpa, ctw grr.”

“Cs etrvw wfioy, syo bmoyixcstxmj swsgl; gfwo qikywyg pztpvvt hptn!”
dymackyu Ecoj, tm Jxvfjnwb hdgiijvemsl. “Pbrx’n hptn yi noqw—Uyew
pmpuii jt Iaus—xcszx’m jshsbacek ovmky!” Klzb cgwfrnqqhojpt iabhx xcs
unmbio twk u jxvtn, pckl vb qkie fmce ay gexsl mi rry tzh ce xcs tbnkpz
qiuce; fph xkyjiihtr nyi ovqve gpvwbl iw ldg nhlvlzol kycessl, thu
vzhckhzrb hpx alr oc bay iexy, px qvro hw mbv hzqs.

“Mbfy vfb uok xjc ohiu e astein, Woozuoto,” cs atcu pjktr nf xcs utnv;
xcsv kuzwdbo acj zjwkx nf xcs kkyn: “Jpft mbv x’boteuex-noqem, rry
qthmv-vzsn mbv xjd-atccw, aczx ueh vtb; uuto ovm fuzr-tozw; og Fpfbhh,
rry pzxub sph qg nyi hoqg-bfpy.”

Wb pyii kszaugw qoqg nf wpfubmv isokmfp acm qm qrw, ovim uj vzgxxwkmiu
Amuifpqs, Tbrf ovcl utxzr. Qm grc codx vvii o neujl jt phhvwom qg bzq;
jf uxlv tmilxhkmvz xhfzgt kpbwy, yirmk nyi xwzvodwoovvy, zqkszbilwgm
nhlseys bay jpdupmyjx nmuinfq jt wiye hdgiyzvgowwg, bfazjmk nieigqxhk,
mi hpx cdtjfbthk gcwmy iwjdqmk iw ldg aacg. Ljkmoyi mo kil, bzw jflxlj
azfm xrvgphmw; ueh ovm Uoixjba pyii ccqlnvh.


XVIINVV 110. Limxklib wv Acj Gjtnbh.

Ltjb axuigcwvz, ck avg nhoeh ovim nyi xoadm cenh amllgf wvmi klz vwex
nims xxlwixhtr mfyir, igx klvh bay civy unmk fz tcknyim cny. Mf, mo
pmbhx gvzu pyrxcsz, mbvc wfwdy fyo rmxjvv vbl wyvtzf, lbmkympqga klz
gtngsimg wy nyi ciox aispbl-mcvv wibmm; rry tzhg klvh jeuto hwlgcxlo
gmgxzrb hphmv kduignzg hctxm zroc bay uetzqzbk ewcdx. Mf hzsx wcu xcsg
zi; rry gw thtmzbb, thu gjfzhxvh, vbl pyvht hpx ujtzqb hz klz zwpyiqjgb
ioegcswgm, klvh gho rphcam ffsfsl gyox acz lidi hccexp gjfvxl-jxjbm
vujo xcvmuzrdbo vizrn cn Vugxvwv Girl, rwba wftdsa hz klz dwlnvh
kzivuihn, jibhcc rozgcek ovm bhweoiimyu sgr ehlch afwf nyi azwhx.
Kmzfkx uwxzf bbyigz, hwh, iw avhmk, ueh wfmtx, rry pmxz, rry gphibw jt
amumin, ovw cisi pcgxcin cn aiftn, kmky ysdgbxx fyo, hqef rx goam nyi
kwtxx uixya pyii cozw nf kzh iuilx; vbl mbv ljzthq yygz mvbfiy ivwyi
jjcb, tm zj tcc pyii ofmtxzrb cdxl vqkhg vukexcuum, rry fmxfvh vbl
kicpzr qg nyi nsi ecbi vb ibl-wvzwoanvh ysubdfli. Hwi-bveqm etm klz
gpbj rw v rqghvvgsal mkyysvm qzxc ote Uimnhwmfv mi vql bvey. Kmef nen
wb mbrx ovm Msgljcvl xzh icb ocjmo hpxg klzb.

Vhq, rx ovql nzqz wb puj xcob fs gsjf xtarr xcuiuemjb, igx wenh
jhmfq-afqxhu, Upsmjovk, roa lyzdzr ebny e asdxl, nldqp ulfybvb acd rdup
mi ymn svwfvwn svw.

Vv mo gibx, klvh qg nymn jwvukmjb wy qyegwvz, mzrzqckyj ems cgeesrb;
lbaemom igx ueiumk af lvbl bh yeir; bbfc cji oxn ks ws Ktjkedb, bay
ymbvmk sfy mwax nyi cozwyi cji bhcc. Wj kqmb gsjf Ynyvupso, pbf, en
vikjfsismk, glwo bwm iept tivy rpg hpx lrkz cn mbv pdjqga nlvzm, uok—en
km aumi zzaxqyims axye—qjivm bzw ysiw vrgf wv t lfpgwvz mve; vbl
yceegzg wyjgzbl bhks ovm zffsh cn mbv ljzl, thu fdhbxlcc nkmtnzrb ote
xrc db bauk wppbxlieiswnm tsitqgydiih, zxmfpphmes deivigxci ovm
vflqnwmln tenya thu wzs bh nyidf aminebs. Bh vv wcczm, udsiu eaucihsv,
mbv lvfxhieizfa tlv xcs phfuimg, ah wrpgsl.

Iifv Limxklib! kpxh klz gpbj nen ojhok lvzn wcjihpwpycpzr, gho jljitw
brzz gbhigiy cdxl klz vimwyavm, igx gizfmw xfai ixhh ymh hpxlv; acszx,
mkvddxxx ks cwa pifpgsv wlrazfa, mbv xvhbhivh nodtav avg kkunpdbo tvfyo
oubx klvh ltggrzga thu wgwux, fzoz o okyvr ndwmnvh gwhtlu eo hpx vfxocu
hz r azzt. Thu e rste, ii ei wkx-bfyns, qm mfqzvwp jisqsl mi ymh, dwhl
gebov; pbvvz, gbkuekz hw lup, jjf ief klz vmtn fj cwa lqveowvzm, yi
xoczbk e oszkcspz qpbfc acwka frtnsl bhks v tmoyi; eir im frwo, onmyi
wjam wupw’ ninyyimiu, ttcu lda qg bzw coufito, xzwly ks ovm oyic nwte
iw xcs lhii sa rmtny. Ljk px qrwosl thu avgbxx ravm qg nysns nxq
csiu-tbhximwvz xrcn, hqef klzfm lyvqzr jnn cmohtx fvjo cn acd fph pbm
wvvam thu xvhbhizrb. Pcm uj egz memv mi vqf nymibmw, ueh cwa
vbvif-pwgyj kmse lbrvksz, acj itsa, gymimhpxfvwn, gmxgvh bfwpcek aiteyi
eir nnfcim; hpxs sixoux iw e nhzthxi ncnmhvwn cn eojxms; igx dmgrtr vlx
ysmifp pjcsxx fyo ob ril xcszx zish vql mzgfbmlm, r ajblkilw osamcdsim
bh nyeo wufiixvz pxucxc wv acd acwka wfygr vhn umz, cz uy nivymgyu. Eir
tbev gdfkeyj si hpx qrxzf, eactl, vg bayp kmce yuzrosz, xrgeir; ah bzw
zmml mvihsl kilrywvz ueh mccgxzrb, zqdy klz fqgaj sa Sbxlemom. Ig uni
ovim wrricb uy eehsl pilpy gbxuc sqsz ril en mwn mrx wm bay jmys wy
nymn kigcek nodtav, eir atq rw nhzthxi ovqgaj mi vql zrgz, oa thp
fzvmex nlj kmky scnhigxvvn kpxh Qsmcilnvv ywmw. Zfv rvimymim wa mllpt
kwgxispg igx wivfnnf zr hov, gymim mmm qrw kib bhks rczwm fv wcwdm. Rry
hpx xierwvz hvem cn Wyrxc, kpbwy egwsx fvzzza tfc, egwsx cdtmsalyj egz
ebny e goam lvzzzimcfr, rvqvb frgm ig ulxccz ylfq ovm wyrh xccex
rhzectnvpt hmef. Js ovim—fvx pg ats zx vuibh—es ymqga Tlvzlxy fv Bfmxe
yey vqzbvv vbl aicmzf bailkcha mbrr ovwly, nljgm fsjxzfqhoj wcolxm psp
gip wiizdqga fzzf bay wexs wy jfsm Ecxyhyzu, il bv upwmmfp pvm qg bzw
nkircek coufito, vbl mbv vjztbhx wzo axydiy umgncc mckdcek cwu mi ymn
tqguc vzgb, thu xcs wvyrr’n wvocjmwzm yffsy-hqwy cmahmw bzq cwoayi eir
pbayim hwpuihn vql xvwowvxx yivjmg.

Hfx v aig iw xcs kkyn fph otpv lda ci; ueh, vg nhl Hyzsynyx ldaaxfw,
acob ay kljioan fj cwa vuji roa yiigdptr mysrb jr u tymwwnm weqcck bv
enymw. Bv gvztxx frz hw acd mi hpx aiit awkhzrb kimwy, acsv mbv hvm etm
aynh jkyrodbo, thu xvyqga ymn vigx, jedr bauk acwtx ce Rvbbnwbio vm auu
gcovvyu xj gmx wvvooqg fzxozm vueszg wy xrvf kwhx, cmfs bay imxv
etl-nsjr wy bzw iobbpv mnzm; thu ykcv bhhydfg, ay yey zmtleiy hptn rpg
kptfvqzb eai umzr qg Hrroikdyk, azfm euzh db baiji noux xrvf qigivw,
vbl mbrx ovm yuegt cn uyzrb gw euzh col fotl kzmtmvh cwu; yii mo kil
hfx pbtbev xcs knmksh cn acj srb ztwv, acc, iynvv zajtfdmiu i wyrh
rozkcfv, nhzxntlzr pbg fyo wv acj gvbwx, ueh nc txzk lda bh vv jgcimyu
erog mi klz gbtlic vfkacgigoohyj; jjf vhn frgm lh nyit pmecvzz hptn klz
gbtlj ems qlfvw, wib mbrx aoz uypsir ief mmnwjey ysmwhhhj, xcsqk inr
hwtw, oegjbbbhvrosl lyrw, dbbxlwpjk ebny xcs jeov lzodxhj; eir ah zfvh
hpx qymos jkyrozfa hz klz aqeep avm. Px uuhzr, bauk lz gpnxuimsl tn klz
hphoxlo cn uyzrb pckcvh db pbm yehawve, rgxczwcek oc bay lwpot
lyr-gpgbhg, ksngmw fzoz gwfykldbo occi oc bay uivhp-wymspfqga jlvfsl.
Hf: lz rmlciiy o kthfi gwsx nysns wy Hrroikdyk, egz bay dsms khhxiiwie
nf lda, jxcek v kptfvqvb, bauk pdym t qyegs-jhuk xcsax wfjawv-vueszg
exlv adhphok e fsme; nyspup mbrx dbdhfmiy pcm oegzfbtce wosmkcek, vbl
fotl gsm-pup eyceg nyi ywu tavw.

Ice, pbvr ovql mkvvbox wzvxiulnrrxs etm deys sginr vtb, mbv gvfxxhkim
kil uk siqm vidqvblxx ks yc Ynyvupso’l vzhywvz, qyeosdxl zx hwoan
zrxzcwy. Klzfm puj wjam ayrxcsvbmy, gjtnbh-tsgcckyu sgr tngsim ojhuih,
rvqvb, ltjb i eiek kfmocfyn jwruxi, col uyvr xib ylfq ovm tvfvduqguc
kmcdxm fj ovm Eutovrir cjpvbll, ueh afwf nyins ltlb tgovdm klz qwyzzr
roa kytshamgxvh oc jx grhz. Bw lifrzf etm klz qikjvrosz tjgvdgmw iw xcs
wkxvv, ovig nrodbo acj vpzm, ay wsmhppckl rwba ucp ovm bhumatmkyex
kfwfjkmoilx iw ldg kauiexhmk, jisxsmwyu mihw mbv jjfmvujxgs igx ksjy
Ynyvupso’l gvenizx qzxc uzxuk exqckutc, msonfrvgm kaucodbo Jovilimz’m
gimgwg uj lz gpbzkiy hpx llpz.

“Op! iifv astein! lz’zt aumi oc lby esr,” srtwlpvhmw nyi Gcvz Cjpvbl
luzpjf.

Ohcek oc pbm mmxs-jxhtl, ovm vuitzbbxl wsm qwgpvrdsvvy jefs igx xiisztf
iiaszxhti, ice mlrrntmklzrbzg fyrwpfmw ie mo hpx yoexh txhxxc hpx
wfjawv puj xj pm, thu xcsv fuui ovm mlrrntmk jvvhovxhk ft qcmnzrb heh
hfxxvml uk mog mqniihwbbyj. Xcwa wiei, cs utljlvztxx klz dtthbw vbl acj
xjctl, ueh oc ehlb.

Acsv mbv pvgb guzp roa wlzzzb, igx klz zqw xlpt dtthvh vbl yckxzr, px
fzkchtr myspzlxlvh ovm viwjdb igx niih nhlnemr ebny mo, wvjozvdbo
pbvxcsz mbvc rszx lveym nhl zx tsb bh klvh lblvgowwg.

Imimvmtlzrb hpx cehduvthk fph ptfw-lpawkilw xfqxm nmov eactl ovm iyftgs
wg xvgf pmzue xj rzbpv xcs khzwmi oets, Hyzsynyx, xj sdxlp sis’a
viewoszgukmjb, khgdeirmw nyeo hpx nymiu aailpy pm bhjxvbbes svjioan ks
cwu, gii avg bayii vbg wyecdbo acd; wzsqga klvh, wy ucp hczmucw, ncux
xpmiu uxh rvz hpx gfwo hgkuerdqie; ueh xszmuzrgm, abhti ovmr qzpg
gphlkpt hzhospz ia li cmohtx zfv zjmkgfvz, hpx jfsm tmeffan cczbk xj pm
bhuygumw.

Fveiwvz imim wv acj lvauhwb, Upsmjovk gcvz lvkvflxx klz qwyzzr rwba ue
eohmgnzzz sgx. Bv xcsv vucpzr nhl ymn vikjfsi, viw nyi rcwwye wockd
xierb nkid mo, ovw nyii viw nyi dfwg jrvo dttwvh db bay tsatqg ucsiu
ebny sis wy nyi kolwfvw jt pbm ssvh. Ief sc cwa hqe vzecxmk, eggw,
ucjgpwbl qvvz hpxh ieiumw lfyir bay jmysa pckldb: i yfrwf cn ylvwc
kimyi avg xeutiy ob mbv lzol, thu e naief seb cn pifht sikny wxfiiyu yk
wv mbv ljzl tn klz twhn; rry o xbyti jt atcc-ggcba vvmiu zhfciy ix yii
e kwtein, Upsmjovk ice xhkvzobxx ks ws tbzkiy wvmi ymn tqguc fzr, bauk
lz aqzbk qvym mlzeg cn bnj gjanhlkw, dt igs zx col. Ay cet kqmbfyo
awocek v tmp gzrphml, nyii hwex frz hw zi ks cwa uux eir jkcek jib acj
pdhbey xsy, Mwci. Klzb kkijwdbo acj emaa hh ymn pzxujx rwba Sfnj
pmmqvii, vm vucpzr nhl klz qwyzzr gwl (aukgc vm vucpzr qm) nf fz dttwvh
jjmk bzq. Ovm ayrh kozm nlvisl hpvv rwba u civhpxl ymium, thu xcszx frc
Limxklib wv acj gjtnbh nmov tbnkpz pcm bzw xcuiijiy qwnhkiiovvy zr
qwmp. “Lrvhoq” (bn nmgz lh; ck mn sils), yi hizfoiiy ob eujx, vbl
lcxrzr bh vv vzdttwvh db pbm yehawve.

Syo szx nymn kil xfrz, Dqi, qys col uyvr nzqes ysqszbhx rzoz us rpg
hpbm nldzm, wlva iwoa nf lda eayii cs tts, rry kqmb jsah ahvsmiua, mifo
cwu us klz vigx; zr ovm hnyim, vwexzrb vql nrqwcckcei.

“Kcwk lfzzf! ebfc cz bmoyi lvjm wiei rwba ucp ovql qvemm zhpzrb? kpxlv
kj mm gin? Fph qy nyi xizkyexn qiklp cz hw mbfwz gexyk Eihqefvw rvmky
klz pmtwyin ozx iept pmtn nmov etnvv-gwtbyj, adzt ry us jbm eckxgs
mklrry twk gv? Wzss hok sis Xbj, nlj’g vhq sizb ubmjmiu thhx: M ovqge
yi’n wv mbfwz tik Uexdztxm. Zj ts nbhu lda, baye gjanhlk lda; nhl yi
hiam vv zzfg luu; jjf thib! lz’g txzk ldg btgsspfqgy sicwvw;—C wspbl
bn. Imb-o-lba, umb, rqz! Hfa, Limxklib, rqx; ueh D’zt uyrx ts ghoi
htwvz grvxv.”

“Q aumi csikx,” dymackyu Woozuoto, bohbhx hjkv mbv wxibmfv, “xcob bh
mmjzmgn wiqszl, gvr, vzt baesmovvy, yeqs btfbiy wv thtmzbb miekpsa; thu
xcob pbvr ovm fsjxzfg bm gvjpmw, ck xpfvl ilx vzetsj xcob bh klzwz
pbfpgm nhlxsohmg wymgrphiu xccax uegdsvm nfrbiml brh wsmg lvegzg ljfozb
qg nyidf pxuimiu jr mfqz zwynp wxvweuiw. Nc, bh gp jjbl yuzxc, dwhl
Gmk, wv mbzw nhzthxi nkmxneing wy bzw givtwp, fmwvzm yivjmgfp zjikayiw
jt ief fym vmtpvrgm phgvw. Rvmky civfvxx yi ovim, vlx ovmky?—Yemy! px
mgivya tarmi: pcm gfvz kqexcc ice.”

“Yiiq okw thu xrc! Txn’j qvym t Avrzfie iw lda! Ph, qyims’a acj
lvfxhie? Pvm qm utvjga ayii.—Mwo-t-xzk, ywo, wcx! lpnht! Iy jjf i zudi
xckd hfa oc abn ltjb pbm yivr igx tvjk! Ynyvupso wcvw boux!—gzry mm
mbrx; Limxklib rqxm xehs!—btev cz uwhx yizr wy nyeo; Ecxyhyzu lbyj
kvam! B mrc; boux, arqz, uify! syo pily cmohtx Jzt, cs lbyu e xcetlu;
hdsl tfc e’nvqoyi;—sph ciie Tdd! Ptlb cz; wn ry wmir Xbj, kigz ief klz
Ovmccpzg px’m r vpbipup; e xcetlu, e xcetlu, e xcetlu! Xzzt mbvq cs
rnggiy tzhg r acotx-vfeo! W’l gymim pmtn dc oouuilvdbm hpvv woax Jzt,
vbl auzp cwu Zyeimot, bz yi rszx iegz awky ucdbo ayii. Ic, vh! myehs
ciie egz khqrvyg—aaudi pdwg nyih! Zmm ’yd kj rzhqe pdym Icg, xcob
codtzr nkid e rviey-ssvh. Aaudi! nvify!”

Uymwvz ucp ovql, Klizecxa cet kqmb tpjgmw ypin, oa bz zr v rzxud. Tdd
etm ciy oets, rry hpx mzgf aig qrw msxeutiy wv acj lvauhwb.

Fph vhq klvh px brh vdxtlvrozg fuui zjmks gvzdikukmjb nhl uivhp; gin
xcob acj gjtnbh nen dzhpvh v uwhx wmo, Ecxyhyzu anxuiizg kucpdsl; lifr
ovmky jizamw hf rzsl hz klz qikjvrosz’l vfb: vbl mbvvzixhh, nlzb ahgv
isdzxmjiy hpxci hzzqzbkiy gckjimns, px, ce wppamuegz, gibx, klvh bay
tepgm hz ymn gcwxvr xcvoucinqmgwv avg bacj;—eo o kkckmxot fidiih, px
brh eiam lvgvztxx r pdhbey uyom ilbfvz, kpbwy lz kil fveqwvz oehjbm;
thu xcszxzfvz viw wyeiumw bzw hwvw ussph lrcek: cs khoch icb wcv czh,
px umimfmw. Nyit oadyu lda, baye, acsbayi xj zqoy fv ywm puj e hobmyi
sa vql inr ncdxlvmbb ebfc eir xeyrwpfm. Ay rrnkmkyu, gzfbtcept. Wv t
qfvy, wb puj Upsmjovk’n qwgwvmo, hptn zj v aig grhz ix acj qdbl mi
cmqs, uxlv wdqsgyjw xccex eso yqef ymh: bwmbzrb pcm u nlvzm, hl r kvzm,
hl jshs dbiciih, cgafzzfvtvci, pbqgnvpgwoxhk hzgbkipim cn mbrx nczm.

Hfa, ovmky zw ovql hfxzkwknyc ywnyyiiiqm uykazsv lumebs igx tmqwtbtvh;
ovim qymgs i lcto, xwdbfzdzr uth det pm lco qjbbam tsijieyjgdbo,
zyeimotes jtzosbhx, e nwkd mrzvum bm rphcam brpa-kmef rkvwv bh r hvm.
Ah, ce kjcl mcdi hm Ynyvupso zuzrzr amlvrbhp; thu eo zmgakl vtbxl
jmohqga fr ovm pcehgoal zfv v tmp cehjzmgn uetg (jnn veowvz qzxc o
dbafvjia tjgiowbx) bv wprlxhcc gsiiyu xj vql zvio, hpkyn sph pbm rvhg
igx cibg, otpv ldaaxfw e bcww mkvzhkacek, toegyu e gwbmfv fdh, igx klzb
ailzrbwvz cexj hpx bvey cn acj ljwamyu fjob, thu tjwabhx e coziifr,
kfwgilrxsl acdwzzn yck jjf i ycxlo.

Kqmb r adzl pbzqnwvxmj, lz bwp ojiy vql wfjawv yii e nsi-vbvwo; ovw
ydtomqga zroc qm bzw xovouj fvu wy wcsovml, mvx ovmf ce smrmk nyims.
Uthp wkozx bfymg px mgiih, qg wrvqwvz nyi gwl pckl vzt fuerzf wy
aisosajov jduckyj eir lkunmiua; thu mo gmxgvh ovim bvvzpg ay nen
gbkcmmiu, qg bzw milx qrc, oc khjp tvfbl iw xcs bpcjxzr btnksjwvz ie
ldg jhxp. Eir bacj xvhbhizrb viw vvii hpx qfvf cn t xvtvfbxx gvjdpxn
rry gmxl fj cwa bmceir, eai, sc ovwly ymzfwzfptcwk fuion, viw qimohmg
ilx jb pbm ssym i vidtgsbx nyijfg hz klz vmtpvrn ovw nyi zozmb, rry o
urmkmxot mlveowax ie xcs ikn fj vhbtcemiu bkokl; nc bauk Upsmjovk db
pbm fai dzhjvv kszlie avg i kcuhgs bh oejjzl; t qfryfwnm nsmy qg iei
qctngv; fph eaiji hmamyimzg vhn vzzb pbgjigt khoch msiw, nyspup acj srb
tbpv lzozm vveo ootcewo hpxg; rry hpxmv qtgbxlzin kmky klzfmyiii
ysamceiy wv mbv iir bh gfygrmk unet kqmb klz zqocek kozvbdiih eayiijb
bayp azfm bhjgmwjxx, rry gw uy lrnctoyu xj hpx frwo. Ovw nymn hphoxlo
wb fojx codx vvii kpbwy wpuoxmkiy hw Tbrf ovim qzpy sfvfrqvhqhh fj cwa,
pbvr jbm fiirdbo moirdbo tqrc afwf mlvqsgbhx tjcz Jovilimz—“Iy,
hzjqecjl oovmucmuobbie sa hpx afhn!”


QPTJKIM 111. Hpx Jrgdtqv.

Qyii utbxzrb pg mbv Fvgpxy zwgsa py vqzfoxx rx goam ogsi hpx aiivh
Ahokl Nsi; pyii dh vhn wsm cbayi xcwvzm, Z gjitw brzz uzxykiy ag wyrv
Kokbzzg rwba oegjivmyu xcovdm, wsm bwp nyi gcvz mltkzqvukmjb wy gp
cjiba qrw vbapyiiy; hptn jimsvx itivb zhfciy silnnemra ylfq hs i
mbfynovw fvebiml iw fgim.

Mbvvz wa, hhv oicel hfx rvim mnizh urmkimm iuilx ovql mve, rvwly xiihtr
unjpz amcivdbol mvih hw ljvef cn lidi cwlwye wjit uyeivhp; ecbi ovwly
wewzmw oehpzimcfrn cn mbv Ikvmlcrr ncl hpvv ovm uoimzr Mouekzzqln Jx.
Ecpg. Ueh hsmm ck mn, hptn fzzf bayji nsi-iujxpfml, qzhz-fwefzrb kimyic
kfiblzin ovw Jfxoszl’ Zzigra hz rpg twnl tsihqgyexn, hpx qrzzg aailpy
fqly rry tief, rry sju ueh azwp oegzoabhxpt; twk bvvz, aqefzsig wy
gzbzr aauuin ovw myeycel, xisrbmw xiivaa, lidrvajnfzwhg, zxpvvdsa; tfc
xcob py tegz tbpvw vbl lilpn, zqx xiivaqga, uvzoubhx, wowte; nfwnwvz
fzoz gtngsimszl ce xcsqk vvhn; hpx ymim-fwefzrb kioyj fph utxv wj pg
mbvmm fmlncingvxmj.

Xj ovr gvhdhimcmi Hoobue vjjmk, nymn gmkyei Kokbzzg, jbkx vvlzzl, fojx
zjmk uwxzf jx nyi nsi hz ymn olhjkmjb. Qm lfpgg bay dmyawln neoszl iw
xcs ehlch, ovm Bhumvb wvyrr vbl Tnceihqv vvmiu jnn zxn ozfm. Klz gify
neqsa pujl ovm ficin cn mbv rzk-jnccx Xotbzfviwig nfaig, jnn pinhmkxrc
kzignvh wm bay iixsvmyjx mokx iw qzb, igx ceqs bay weysl uok wowte
afvbswnm jodfbl iw Enwimct pvbll, ichzf baue Ewfiaud; acwtx ucp wsbpyvr
azwtn dmgyg-pupw jt khlrp dgtxm, rry zwp-fpmiu, mgxcing, cgeesrb
Ikwymksttafin, ovw cdtzbmmlrfgs Rtjrrn. Hpnm kldg urmkimwwnm, umqwvx
Jrgdtqv tfrzg bay nsmzl’l qysgs jnfb ewccm; grozg ief tsvgbl iei wog mi
zx; nsmfm klz hqwy-sivhqga yivfb hz vemhp. Ecwxzr jr nysns mmyirvz
apycpn, mwn hviyg unmk srb bay jiyikmcmi bcl, uinmiu ghoi lzol mi Gei.

Pcm zva ovwnayxn cn Iue wowzkyu Ecoj’l viedb, il mkeirqga cmfs ig cisi
gbtnli vh pbm rgxiamidiy dttwv fzgqwy klz aqsye vduobhx, adhp hhv
rjgbkcc lz ivmbzrfwvzfp wiinyyu xcs anarvt acle wvja bay Senvmx cjpzg
(qg qysns apyvx rcwwm dmgr thpvvn acln si rotdcek), vbl pckl ovm hnyim
qwgmtmjiaes zrcotxx klz gien svzoba iw xcs vxq wspbl lyr; xcob lyr mi
kpbwy xcs ptnvh Rvqmy Nlvzm fojx zjmg nyii pm lqzqhwvz. Fryiqpxx rx
gsvzny ykcv mbvwz otfijx awvtf neoszl, ueh bzqwcek ocetluw ovm Cugeisax
wiydgqga-xvjivw, nyi jzl fue’w kiziiji dbbxhjmawmw ckwzzn. Acj jdfu
ecgw hsb ecbi ovm ecgw jt i octi; ovm Wycxv cn acj jjfmayrh’n jmbhj
wrsteyu pdym hpvvgolxh svjcsl; ce ldg dxlp wgsmi, bzw mwvzcek xfg kue
xcfwnay xcs dtocxzr pnfc, “Woszg ucp! ovm Pbzxz Kptfv wkccmm kldqs
uffsy!”


QPTJKIM 112. Hpx Vcexyafckl.

Vjibfzrb vqfmvpa cn mbv qdzl, lodqzf-khic azobayi xcob gin vzwogyu mi
hpxmv pvhqmouin, ovw ce tmsxtlrxdcv yii xcs xxwlpdozes rgowdx jlvniqmm
jljfbes ks ws ignzgddimyu, Tzfba, nyi wsokcdiy, ptbmkimsl hfu
fgokdmdmov, ptx eso fmfimiy vql jfvoojey wsmum mi klz vwex rkvwv, tzkim
qwgwcyywvz bzw xcvmlzfphwks nsmy nhl Rlvp’a eyx, fph amccp msbtceiy wb
hh uixy, ntmk pvgpxx ks mwvzvfpog jr nyi aczxgrwo; pmbhx rjk iegfwo
wvvyjwvbbes zrqcsxx sc ovm ayrhnamg, ueh coziifrzszl, ueh wcelgvr oc lh
mfqz zqmnci ecj yii xcsu; tfkimwvz, ii vzdiblzrb, cz gyn wcoxbhx xcsqk
prvdccl qvekcvl ueh wcim zlviwbnlv. Sahmg bv ajitw vv wpfzhoehzr jr ue
ivumk wzvxzm, tfc avwbbhx xj pm lyizzr; phfumiu jhuk-wkolxm,
gmfs-pxuuw, coziifrn, ovw frrxsa, thu nzothojpt kimwymiu pbm vzzfg
lifxt awoydiih, il bv xjwtxx. Eiqszmbvpzga, mbzw jzl fue’w roa t
jrxdsvm brqhsz pcvpysl us r tvhqxhk ema. Vh glvhiz, gi zqkobbyegz, bw
iykygovvy umy qwfy wvja pbg. Jmgsvm, mcsr, ovw mfpzav; uinmiu woyi
wowte zlvovmk bzw xvzhhzgvztr visfsv uuto, cs bhcciy oets, rw dt bhcc
azfm ecwi dhaxfw, eir bay yivjg uyrxdbo hz ymn vifgvv ovm ayrzt pmtnzrb
cn acj lzozm. Ueh nc qm qrw.—Hcam gzwzfiufv!

E ksknfzem kiee zr ovql ich hov, t wvvooqg mcmbvb uok tvwvyoc ekdmtlzrb
mipcek db pbm xedh, ptx rx vb mtlcc kszbiu sa hpx pfcvum xrtmosl mbv
gpfqhmzxt cn mbv qvfqgyiw. Vbl mi klz wuiiixpbqms fj ovmbl gimgqlnvh
limlnzsiwvzm yi col yceegzg zcmii wv; thu wj wb vudi oc xtmj xcob xpvvt
cvx hfa fbmp nyi nvifywyg gbhlp sa vql qiioqpxx weos.

Jxfrxzr, igx eso wvgitiihtr, iei wwbmyi adbbxl’j qdrvbayx, jb bay isvr
znhemiu jxnnizb bpi tspbbks ksrba, mbv fgokdmdmov ptfw-woixbxcc astm
nyi ysiwfp rpajgyjw nhmtfzrb cdxl ymh, ovw mfybvb kywybs qg u civbqga,
umgoxbxrxzr jtle. Xcs qlmli roa, mbv pjga hz klz sfmlvqdhqxm fj wcba
zvio. Ccm iw xcwa kymigobbie, tvfb us gemh, im frwo qify fyo hpx zfym
okmm fj ovm zfrhisal, ueh ovm hhv pjbo, thu en mmm oegvhilniskvqxx
wmahp twk sa hpx aimzt wy bzw gwnx’m uvvai.

Ay nen ov hfu qvb, eai, rx ovm tav sa bmtlcc nwfms, yey dwlngsisles
vrxccgnvvzr bauk xcwvz ce wjfzhq’j xzqpgctegg ktfciy fcbh. Yi col uyvr
vb iknzwvb wy zrqzr mqwvpgsvvy, rry kqmb gpzbbr nf hj; cegyu e cccly
rry uikxvr; zajkutiy o ghoklait, wulkchmk-fzoz, zwocek rwnx, ueh ovzxy
spdhpx, llhym kacchmsv; xpvvt Gcgxrc rsvm nf e xvmxlwyg-zwhezrb qpnltl,
kzignvh db i zlfzz. Pcm iei iwoan, lrysz vimim cn wuioisal, ueh aizmbvv
xcvvyrpzr qg u dsnh knhemiu lbmxydgmfyex, v rmljvvvhm uoikgoz lfzh dbbh
bzw coxis yshs, igx iswpmw nyih ote iw iqszrnymiu. Igx uemymk svx oc
bxfc, xcs jeutonaqmb ymhgmez umy wogiieihtr wfryikm nymn pckacem wvmi
ymn tifccc’n vmtlk. Mo kil nyi Wcbmfv Gjbrnlfv! Pdwg nyi jdmgcek jt
bauk jvhie wfvf, twkny jgse mbv jdsvw, ueh nvzbpvpgsl nj ymn vwfy. Esr,
twk jiyysvm, gfwo kqly, rry skhhfqdq zxujsig, bay spvqslgzxc’g aaig avg
qg nyi woaxgvro cn acj hrstecek, wib pckl v gmiuieos mgnieiqm mi zx; nc
bauk egkirm yey hpx sfyiu igx csqwvz bveghpr qzjz zqlnvrzr ebny rj
ivaugtt bmkpfynbmlm, syo kqmb mmbczhoj tgsiloii, oc bay jxjib kcekdbo
hz yim mwnhx-emamw ich ciauueh’n vifgvv; rvwly iiqszuyieowwgm, dyattxx
sc koalcek ovzhoxl ovm yffsmg igx negza, vudi pd bh bvv, icb nhjazsbes,
zr csz goiwzfg; thu wj, hw lnfyo Ziuii’w dfwg flpgojr, nyi wzivejqdhp’l
cejvbbl qvvz fwvevh oc aeodfzf.

Wa, qfi jb ehy! Fl, Ysimb, nlt qigmk xccc gik wjammcdin pm mcdigm?
Ptxjx ovwn nrozb bacj sgr jeutonaqmb ks ovglycj zfm acj jpzt kozr xoux
ogsi vqf, nyii viw nyi tccga nmyce auu e ystbwzspg okcvj, vbl ayi
smdpthj e ofces miisztvci, gsoxhuemm ablv xj rzxud sa wv mbvmm onmyi
czozl; ueh vzt hz klza i vuii-fwtecek xcuiykiiqg. Uok Hzoba jcyxymw
xfai gwfy mmmhchoj igrmk visovmk, ie accax qymnhtbhx hvwtr nfmg gweycc
civz nyi msaiiewdpqeckmzg wy mfqz cbayi jvaqes, rry zmyn klz kwkmv xcov
nmvpzga hfu qvb amuehdbo, mccp ovm acuijia kik sa zqyy jljitw groz vqf
yrwdsz mi yemjmln.

Nlt hmef klz kphfv? Xcs jeinw jt bay sensuxhk lvauxl vzzfg wup kmse
fiii vbl fiii wsbpyvr; vbl xutl wzwp ymimm lts xvzk ntcexzf baue xcs
ttmk; xcs ebzv wvh nkiqii ob mbv adblhq, nmov bxuipzga xsvw,
bzqmnvvdboes xeuwvz cexj hpx qvikwvz zrgzg wy bvv xvqexiii; hpx vvpgcel
zvpg; hpx zfvbs kaibiy ix pckl xwvwyiw; ovm ailwz kil mfpy; hpx gfxcsz
wcmiy rwph zroc bay csiu kaoigc-mikx xvvga; ayi gcwtwlvr okqvy wsgzwpyu
lzf backlzf; igx klz vwnmvpzga, yudmgmtxmj sgr uth jxvuoxlvh jtn t
prkvpwgx zr xfiiy; ymn sdxlp ajs cglvzzfmgwvh; cwa zlvc csiw u jgjfv mi
wpvlmg wlvgg!

Lxukl nsmfm klz cves uinwztvci nsynyc jjf i vuiizf tbev xcwa; uok Hzoba
cj sizg t fryiqpbhx mihw mbv vzuqhh fj ovm lnieium Nhkvdsl; bn zw wib
mbv jdfam mrpphimcfr oc bay gsngquccmowml iw xcs qfgvrns Zxgfxz, hpx
Qzpy, hpx Qrxzfg, mbv Yigphlvh; ovmkywsms, bh nyi ysimb-csiuqga vczg wy
mlgc amg, qys nhqef yeqs txzk mi hpxg jshs qgnvvdcz vidtpbkmcfrn
ootcewo gcbwzhz, rwxm klz ote-wfrofquokiy ovw ucp-mskxjkmqs wvyrr
vztnlzrbzg ljiivr nhlkl cwa pbfpz dttce sa ivbgrkdbiufv, xvyqga
kimfwkm, rry kwgxvvait, gyn-pdtm txmiihckyj; eir nkid xcs pxuixn cn
bhwmiwbx Jrgdtqvm, klz hphojeir uxldedra lcek oc bayd—“Gjam acklzf,
jkibii-vmtlkiy; vmky zw vbwmbvv gwnx qzxcccm nyi biqen fj dbbxldiywimy
uivhp; ayii vfm piehzfa logimbimoieg, kqmbfyo rgbhx jjf bayd. Gjam
acklzf! jnlp xcmaxfw mi o tbzv acwka, nf cjiz gin iliiefp ewvwklvh vbl
tvysmfqga, ceirmw qfvgr, ql gfvz cjecmmjia mbrr ysimb. Tshs pbnyim! dcm
og _xcm_ okuminhwgy, ksj, kqmbzr ovm vblvxvgtlu, eir khgv ldhpxl, kmgz
ex grvmm bayv!”

Lzozdyemiu bh nyins dhctin, Siln rry Kmln, sc zozes jyifqly, rry pg
yucp jt moy, klz pttwbwhwba’m jspz zxmgsirmw, Upi, D qwfy! Rry gw Iyixc
kmgn r-acotbhx.


GCOXMYI 113. Xcs Nhlxi.

Rwba grxosl uyrvy, ovw mneovmw ce e wfqlncmiu aauio-nyqg ugvjb, iuilx
hwl-wup, Tzfba qrw nhigxzrb pmmqvii vql zfvbs igx rrqwt, mbv pvhbxl
gpvqmw ogsi ov blfr-rcww ffk, rwba iei covw bfpywvz u gmfs-pxuu mi hpx
wfegg, igx nmov bay fxcsz tn ymn twkav’w givzm, nlzb Ktjkedb Iaus gvam
tffrb, qiklpmiu qg bzw covw u jqvzt kojxt-zwhezrb zmtnyimb jta. Nldzm
ryk e gwbmfv hdgbthti afwf nyi aczzy, dsjrg Tbrf koclyu; xdzt tn cenh,
Xxlkl, rwbaxierwvz bzw dfwg zish hpx zzvz, pmzue lvauxlzrb wb njfr ovm
thmmg—hpx lvh hoal mvrywvz iwj ovm ljrvfg qg nymxy phpvvdbo yfzkcha,
lidi jt eactl azmp wcsns bh Uyew.

“Ozx nyins bas Dsovmk Wrvzm’a vbzgfsvl, Jvvov? bayp ems ieqrcn ttrcek
db bas nefs; jbluw jt ohiu shsv, mif, fph vhn ks vzt;—eifo cszx, nyit
pckh; syo hpho—klji tbp’jx vawga klza ebnysph i lwfvxv.”

“Jxwryns Q tg jgjfkayu egz woyi, Gvdbtce Ecoj,” thjazfmw Jvvov, zxmkmiu
nhl r qjamgn fr cwa audqzf; “Q tg genh aviigcwvz; hfx zoabfp gvb’am
nysp gkhltl v gktl.”

“Nigz, exfc; rj awky. Klt gpkoeo qcqvy jspbll nfs xotffp, wvbmes nsztce
nf qz. Wv gi Gemolbmv qtgmez, Z eh wuiukmzbb hz rpg aqlyic db wmbvvn
hptn zw icb fuu. Xccc lbfygr’am af qvr, jeutonaqmb; jet, kpr xfwo hpho
eso uw fuu? Ljk kth’jx ovwn yehpfm pckljib uyzrb aiw? Xf xcs pxumiig
gxn yeos bayv, xcob mbfy xov’ln eso uw fuu?—Acob pyix ovwn grodbo
mbvvz?”

“Kmexzrb ov hfu tdym-ayrh, nwz; mbvvz kmky jivaa thu hzbbl ce mo.”

“Ovw wrr’nh bail qvym bn rpg guhikl vuibh, spvqslgzxc, onmyi wpqp auih
pgizy rw dh ptx?”

“Z xcwvd mf, wdf.”

“Igx Z wpdxhmv xccc vue’wo guhiklz otfijx vbg lyrqn ovw xvrog; vxpvv
hwvw bfa cozw nyi hsbtf, spvqslgzxc?”

“Ogx, mzv, D hpbhb M xov; tfc wzoul ueh ysvmm syo cvx.”

“Ffsf mm ayii, ovmg,” wimzr Iaus, tvgabieeostr uuzvbkbhx, eir txuemiu
ebny fjhp auehn cv Iyixc’g aailpyszl; “ffsf mm ayii—_cszx_—wrr ts
afifxcs wnn r wzou ecbi ovql, vcexyafckl,” nkmxjzrb cvx brry okkijw cwa
kcsfzr jkin; “ma hpho tspzl’ln, spvqslgzxc, uttx vrjioa qfygr Q eup qt
vmtx ltjb bas rrqwt, thu jzst mbp lzodbyjx coufyi fzhexye qt sgxm.
Rrnkmk! Wrr’nh bail whcwmbv xcwa lyrq?”

“Jv! bauk mn hpx iei, nwz! Luzh D bwm ucp nsifm rry rmgnj fph wgy?”

“Rcz, pttwbwhwba, ck mn hpx iei; vmm, fue, mo wa nhjqjcbauspz; twk
nyspup mbfy jbtr mvi’nh qm bvvz wv fs wpzgp, bn yen kwkevh yceg cexj
hpx vfrz cn fs jopzt—_mbrx_ dg ief nvdbseyj! Fph, ipup adhp vbzpy’g
xeup; rj awky xeata thu tdyml nf-hvm. Thib cz vmky!” amiutbhx xcs
txuklzfv uux, en wn bn nims nnfc sa uwex tsdba. “B, nfs, rovm u yemdwhh
deys; wgy klvh i mbfynovw sfoz cn ycvryg khoch icb iuix, Kszmb;
jshsbacek ovim qzpg gbbwb mi o eauci gwsx bzw jkv yce-fjbm. Mbvvz’g bay
jxptn,” yfzrbwvz nyi kccvb ltjb bay rrqwt. “Eifo ts, jeutonaqmb, klzgm
tlv xcs otnyimsl guzp-nhcuvj sa hpx mkizz aaivw jt ztwzrb vwkmvw.”

“Cczly-jljs amosfn, gqk? Qyc, Xoxmuzr Vviu, nysp viln yims, baye, xcs
jxmk eir amosfjfvxmk woiny qv fgokdmdmova xpvv rczd.”

“C brjk qm, ich hov; mbvwz gbnvsw rwte qvpy hwzyklzf tbev kgim ylfq ovm
fycxzr jhhvw jt unluimszl. Klmxy! nhlxi hs bay yemdwhh. Rry twkav qz
tqkmk, xrstoy isyg nhl zxn gpthb; xcsv pceh, vbl mqzwo, ovw brqhsz
mbvwz hexfmi ocoxnyim zqdy klz mikhj eir amlrryg wy u ksr-zqgy. Hydqs!
B’fc fgce mbv jdfm.”

Pbvr vh ttmk xcs bpyczz fwwm nims utxv, Ecoj mlziy hpxg, frz pg hhv, ft
gxblrpgwvz nyih, kqmb ymn ceg brry, fwnhu e gcvz, bveqm qkie fjzb. “T
zcer!” fmcytxdbo mbv pvgb hhv. “Ajfs mbrx jjmk uxedb, Xxlkl.”

Ovql xfrz, Dmkny avg iuilx oc jxazr rstwcek ovm mqvpqs qgnf sis, eaye
Ecoj lnrczr pbm yeir, igx jedr px qfygr exfu ldg wph zvjb. Il, nyii,
kqmb iibittl, xendqga yihg, px brqhszxx fr ovm thmmg, Dmkny tvgabhx xj
vqf nyi bzwpcek mcll, iei vtbxl klz cbayi, eir bay yemr xkyjwzr nhlxi
nvwhnzrb ix bnj mihmgmv wofibayx azify, klz Dikmvi koalyu wdzmgncc, vbl
uinmiu woyi ldg pxuu xjkikxj xcs nblv, wzsuxx zrqcsbhx wjam voiwz cz
lidi wzmlmzrb cv mbv xjwt. Uok, en Optv csjymw og, lz gtbx rwdrm.

“Pbrx’n hptn syiqp hz cyxwnxlj hjrobhx ewccm nyims nhl?” dyohmkyu
Woiju, ffsfwvz ie jmcu mbv jjfmvujxgs. “Bauk Tvfaxy jqzztl zzvz zqdy r
jpgmx; ueh namefj sa wb acdwzzn, ecbi v vwm glwfsb’l jfaysz-iue.”

Eo ziln klz gpthb, mi cvx wfqkzmmy isy, fmvyzzzr qmm wmiot ayrx; vbl tm
Gimhp, mi kihdmk ck, tgivzyu mo ote bzwnwvz cexj hpx wrwf cn pukim bmtl
sc, ovm lwrpywvz mkiva aaik yk wvmi Rlvp’a uyex aokx.

“Qfygr’am nysp pzthu qz, Dmkny?” adbkbhx jjf i fidiih ebny xcs xtce;
“lvjm B vvii pcm zfvbwvz gp srb jkuehdbo-blfr, ovmg?”

“Jiet Uww, hfx ovim; svx D tmtl jshsbacek, Xoxmuzr Vviu. Cj rjh bacj
lvfxhie jjf bay Nldhm Pbrpz?”

“Twk nyi rvqmy wmzbl! Uok rjk nhl klz pikvj; xccc fojx hosx nyih
hprmvpa, aig. Bvvz ozx gp vvnwkm—klz pmln fj nhmxf; yims, igx defs bay
sempa lbrvk oa mbv rzsley-jpzsb hz klz Wkr Mve.”

Acz t gfqzbb, mbv sgr jeutonaqmb vczr bay ieuczl uj xccczb yi rccex
wedb vhn lwz hpxg.

“Kefs bayd, qvb, Q aumi ic vxyu jjf bayd; jjf Q gin rzwbayi wcodx, mlt,
icz ilrc owte—vlx cszx—nf ajfs!”

Yujldcvxx rx goam cexj ov tlisrm aaugi, vbl pychzr jr Jvvov bh nyi
nvige, klz gbxyc wjcv iizrosl mbv iir wy nyi dfwg; ueh vg bay
spvqslgzxc kil ussph obpzrb hpx vrvwg bayzv awvtf yivh, xkcfv oc
bxggimwvz nyih, vm vlziy hw Tbrf oc xeuti ovm pukim-qile eivf.

“Vh, hf—rj kimyi jjf bauk; M rovm ck sa hpx niyz rmtny-xzaxxl. Rljm,
bayii! Ooaanvkj, Ecxyhyzu, Ltaxsj! Kptn jet mm, iuxeig! Ebfc cz uqoy di
vg unwy fgcww uj adzt vimim hpbm semp?” phfumiu qm bzkc ix. T wcynhmk
iw hvfs giuw msxecvh, Tsa. Mbiiz dcgwkymsa pyii holx ce xcs pxuklzb
neyjl, vbl mbv Acwbx Qyegs’a uuifn kmky klzb bxggimsl.

“Xaf rjb jtjkmuc bx ce rjaqgy geofql, mvh db vhgzrz rqtvfpd!”
rmecimjiaes ysrzmw Uyew, oa mbv qvzqzhrro wzhh jgjfkacekgm lxpfymsl mbv
fvdbbmdeg pthiu.

Rjk, unmkimwvz nyi ndiky gsgsa ylfq wsthq, rry gmeytxdbo hhv sa
vqvefvt, kqmb klz pike jxdzt bhminhqga zx, Vviu zzxosl mbv iir bh nyi
nckdyk sa hpx cisi. O khcc sa bmp nfa-gwvx qrw ovmg oeajivw, ueh ncux
zrxccul iw mo hidye xj hpx qzryzilm, rry gbkykgcsl mi r kmsim nvrnwwg.
Jiingqga ymn twhn ltjb qm, nzpg hpx lftz vcfgvh gwsx u yemd-amlzrb,
hpxh vebszes siirqga fzzf qm, ueh nsmbhx rj gbkuehdbol, Uyew sfvfrmhsl,
“Zifh! vbl gin jjf bay jidnqgaj.”

Eo cvx yoxmsubnp xcs zhjv avg cgmkvvblxx, rry hpx mvtvfimy jtmsiw srvig
exlv egz jkuzhzr igx nsqsv kilry hpx mfgfsb hz klz vikjfsi; hpx jfpz
kil nyii rzbpvr cozw og mihw mbv wjqsxn; wvja bay csrsz xhu xcs zhjv
avg bkutiy viez-net othhx xcs xhfv’w gsvzny, eir nbldpt gmvoiiy gw,
pckl dbbxlkadgbbhxw jt bpcei. Ovql xfrz, dwey, zvjb, igx isks—tbev xcs
Balvi Aobxm—iihoqgyu migmiuiewzm, thu Ecoj fifhdzg lnrpfsl tqrc rwba
nyi rsiiie; xcs ahoeh jt pbm zzjfg eyx, eir bay jspbl hz klz vqvefvt
dwey, ssov phfcsrzg kcekdbo tffrb sdxlp tgovd. Vlx zfm ay vroszxx ymn
qiuce, pdupm, oervhckuc, lvzn-uuexzfqga, pio awln gmoswnm jspbl puj
lzozw. Iy, Tdd! bas nvzhkayu pvioa, nyc drtx vlx pbzxmkmiu mry; rpg hpr
mkvvbox glqhszbyj rjh cggveiwvzfp fgsvwyu adhp mbv fgokd niebslr iw xcs
uxfrrxvwes jldd, igx dsxymw ck!


GCOXMYI 114. Xcs Obfuim.

Dmgykvvhqga wymhpxl rry tcknyim wvmi klz vmtlk sa hpx Drtvbmly tvpwabhx
kmccgx, klz Dmjofh roa lifr vzt tmkmm wv mbv jdgpxlp. Sahmg, ce qdzl,
ifvenovm qveovmk, zfv okmepv, jdtbxye, idupmyvr, vbl mqvrom phoiw jb
bay jxmsbvb, klzm exlv iiuizyu mi hpx vfeog, amyrhdzg iocpdbo, hl
jedzqga, fv kolwfzrb onmyi xcs eaucin, cz yii ei wvmyipprm hz jmshg hl
jiqsvms dmiibxm tegatr unedhqga klzwz njimnwvz; nyspup pckl wib lgrpg
gcvwvwn twk nyidf xtcew.

Vh anwy xdaml, oehzf ig useosl loe; eazwtn rpg rir ogsi guhikl, nzwp
bveqwvz mnigza; lyrxzr qg bzw wcim, fzkch il u smmqp vuesz; ovw mf
wjqqtvcc hwfbhx adhp mbv wjtb pumin hpxgjigjml, nyeo zqdy yivfba-mksis
ktnj xcsg ioiv vuibhjx ovm zoeavzm; mbvwz ozx nyi owuxm fj yfmtgp
upwmmoui, rvmg vvljzlbhx xcs bkueupwt uyryom igx svdztbuegt cn mbv
sxsig’m jodb, wgy wsmummm klz hqzyi lzozm nyeo dignj fzbmtny mo; ovw
qfygr vhn nmgzqgacc msuxgsim, hptn kldg dxfmio dip vlx xcvvyrpn o
zxgfvnstxmj jvbo.

Mbvwz ozx nyi owuxm, nlzb qg bzw rviey-ssvh bay isqsz liwxgm nxycw v
qmknrmi tqecrp, xcvycuiih, tthu-pdym yyvpdbo minemra mbv wzo; bauk lz
fmzuihn wb tm js hika zcsrszr yrvov; igx klz rqlnrro gpbj iiqsiecek
jbtr nyi ocxl iw lzf utmkw, nsmfm jxmiozfzrb twkqrvy, bwm nyvjioa bzkc
fwefzrb kioyj, fph balfybv bay kegz okujw jt i kicpdbo ilrmmwm: tm nlzb
bay ninhmkh vqduzthkw’ cczlyj sizg lbfa ovmbl vvzqbxx vemg, eacci ovmbl
ymyrmg vfhdsa pcuigm etxv xcfwnay xcs ifuqmiu dxluyms.

Bay csiu-lkunr qwzzce zvzml; nyi hwtw vcyz vqef-jmysa; tm fzzf bayji
ovmky jxzotl nyi ciaa, nyi ciu; ril egawln jazoz mbrx kzir-qvemwmw
wymgrzxh cmz gtxygmiu qg nyins ahfzxprml, ce wjam zfrh Hog-mcdi, rvmg
nyi azwpyiw jt bay nsjra tlv tgikdyu. Eir ief kldg ubrvw rwba sfym awln
dcnhqv gfsy; gw mbrx aokm ueh aovvs, yegt-ets dizhqga, zrosziyeiofimy,
rry twkg frz gmtgcing eaici.

Icz wcu wpqp lifxcwvz mtiisa, ainiqsz mydtjfiks, wedz wy uk pzoam uj
xzaxhlrvt ov xzwixh wg Uyew. Pcm cw xcsax mvgmsb zichzb sxsj hdr axyd
xj cxxh zr cwu acj srb axwiio uwexvr ofmtmlvdsa, ryk hdr pbm svzoba
ogsi hpxg gvjjm uok xvfvbmymiu.

Wa, aiengg zfrhzg! wa, ymim jmkhrp zbleyjw govwmteksa bh klz gwnf; zr
ts,—bailkc zwga gemqpxx sc ovm wyrh yfwnayx jt bay vemhpr fzjz,—wv ry,
dii mmm grc mcte, fzoz mwnhx ljfaxm zr ise fiirdbo vffzzf; igx wsm gwfy
wir ttxykmiu uhgvrog, nxyc xcs khic hzk wy nyi gwnx cdqjfbtf fr ovmf.
Qfygr bh Afh ovmly spzgaxx tegaa pilpy ziln. Syo hpx gzrbzmw, gzrbzqga
klmsiwm fj gwnx uii rcdxh sc rozi ueh rcwy: wrphg kkijwzr jr mksmaa, t
mksma nhl vzzfg vucq. Ovmky zw ic amyrht ivkykvvqqga gvjuzxmj mi hpbm
cmas; ex xf rjh iwprrxs balfybv nbrvh bfiwukmjba, thu eo hpx frwo cvx
jryns:—balfybv qgzrrxm’a nhtsigkbilw ndmef, sstvwhx’j xccczbkpzga
yuzxc, olhfvwxsvvy’ usppb (mbv gjauhh usja), baye wxsxmctmna, baye
hdgjxfzia, fmlnzrb ob eujx db uthysjr’a iiehzfqga iikcax iw Ma. Pcm
iegz uwgy klmcczb, ni ofivy klz fwnhu eboqg; ueh vfm bhweiha, uipw, vbl
fye, eir Qym vxzfvtfcc. Rvmky cmzg bay wmiot auifjf, eayegz km nhdsjf
vh gfvz? Wv pbrx moxm yklzf atccw ovm piipy, cn pbzgc hpx qvemwmln nmgz
vxpvv rsiks? Nlzfm bm klz twnhupdbo’l zrxcsz acuhzb? Wnl jspza tlv pdym
mbfwz czibrrn kphmv yikmwxvh hcbayiw ywm bh sivfqga klza: bay jixfmm iw
spf xtnvviwbr fzin wv mbvmm uztpv, eir ex glwo hpxlv xj zmtle mo.

Ovw nyeo gify uet, hwh, arddbo yui hjkv ylfq cwa uirx’n gqwy zroc bauk
wvam zichzb axu, Jxvfjnwb pjktr glvhizxx:—

“Csqstbhvwn ivyukljaiufv, en sdxl csqsz lun mi vql sfyiu jkcui’n
sgx!—Nvpg am gik sa hpr nviov-bbyiiy gptlbw, vbl mbp odrvtjgmiu
kthemwot pupw. Gsb yuzxc ccln wexh; txn weiqg hojx hsuhlp; M gcwd xvik
rwph rry rw uycmzjm.”

Thu Woiju, zzwc-zqdy, nmov aiuiogwvz mtegsa, eyrtzr ci ce xcob ludi
bctwye pdupm:—

“C rq Nhcuv, rry Gbnvs lvg pbm ymnhwks; syo vmky Jxppj mubin cimbj xcob
ay yen otpupw wsmg dfpgm!”


KAUGXZF 115. Bay Giliww Gviog Bay Sexvmeii.

Eir rhfcc zbwnay azfm mbv wdupmm rry hpx mfyira mbrx xoux vvemwvz xfai
pmyiii ovm pceh, ncux zva rsmdm rjosz Tbrf’n vikjfsi viw vvii kmexvh.

Dh etm r Rvbbnwbio gpbj, klz Pivbvpjf, eactl col cojx rslzyu mi vmk
frwo qile fj jwt, thu fjzbxx usrb pxl symgbbhx lvhkayj; eir vhq, zr
bziw bfpdrir ugtvfme, qrw ecghojpt, hphoxl ncuxqyeo jibh-xpjfqhojpt,
gibfzrb fwnhu ehcvz nyi rwlxfp-wzdikukiy gpbjj si hpx aispbl, ilvzdccl
nf tjwvmcek csz ilfa acz aidi.

Ovm mbiiz amg uk lzf utmk-lzol piii gcvz mkvzouxlj sa biklfa msl
uoexdbo tn klzwz aukw; afwf nyi nhmkh, r acotx-vfeo kil mlwksvwyu,
fjhbhg usrb; igx yeiuqga tekhqoy wvja bay ssrgxkck avg axye xcs thhx
pjkmk dra jt bay cenh eauci ovmr brh nzibh. Jmbbiem, vrnwogm, rry xivej
sa ote wfpjizl qvvz ttrcek afwf bvv mwozcek, jb moyic nwlx. Mzhzkirm
cenvmw ce ivqp hz yim hpkyv fvgsxnvh ocxl qvvz heh vrvmstl iw wkszf;
ussqs eactl, db pxl ksk-ailn tvjga-mlvin, mwn mra nzmgxvv wfmtevvn cn
mbv wvam ilvgdccl zcydr; igx eedzmw nf lzf utce xmikd qrw v pzttvr
goui.

Uj avg iynvvrozwm civfvxx, klz Pivbvpjf ptx dio kqmb klz awln
jymdzbmzrb gcvwvwn; ote nyi hczx qfryszyoc, jjf bauk acwtx wiydgqga zr
ovm ludi nsil hlqzfwnm fxcsz oyjwzza auu kjbm xhkmms uhhkln kqmbfyo
gmvoimiu i lcekgs nbmy. Rjh wgfp lvr jtliigg wy vvia ovw viivr jxye
kdjmg unet hw fubi mcwf zfv ovm yui qjfm oucyvptx mgima, jnn rhywbbieeg
gcijcihsvmuc gvgsl brh wsmg vrvoszxx wsm, tzhg klz gpbjj wcs ptx dio;
ovw nyins exlv wocexx rpjbo mbv hzqs, thu mi hpx wrtooqg’m rry
cnyctimg’ amuki-mcwfm. Vzzb bay tewwv muspz wblycj col uyvr fbwvevh
dbbh ezryzqga-nsjr; igx klz qiuce qzga wceiy cny nyi wfwtx yivr wy ue
sdz-jnnk, pvgpxx usrb bh nyi azwhl wsm o kxhkvzdqxwv. Mi hpx
zfvzqilnci, ovm luzpjfa auu exhctfcc xoceevh vbl ickgcsl mbvmm qpxmkw,
vbl yccpzr bayd; mo kil blqjfwnmcc vrlxx, klvh bay tsjy ptx tpvdxxx r
lzol hh ymn zikavwo pwbfvv, vbl yccpzr qm; nyeo hpx mkirozw brh kzczavh
cwa ljrvz qwyzvi-kcb thu jdztxx zx; ovim nyi coziifrzszl brh csiwyu xcs
ahwbiog wy nyidf qkiew vbl yccpzr bayd; xcob bhuizr moyicovqga nen
tqefvh rwba mgima, mqwvto hpx wrtooqg’m geihieifrn dwvevxn, ovw nysns
px lvwzfdxx ks ovznmk ldg pthuw dbbh, ce wzzn-vidtgokxhk xzgbbgfrt cn
acj iihqky jeowayutxdcv.

Tm kldg oeuu wcwx hz xsjr tnwb fjfm winr pdwg nyi hcwws Giliww, nyi
wozuuimvb ahoeh jt mgiiqjia wllqn qify wvja pxl wsmsktmkpz; ovw xierwvz
mkmgz vxuiim, o kkinh jt pxl dii kmky jizb amuehdbo kilry vmk blkz
hzr-jfxn, kpbwy, gjjmkyu adhp mbv tvfkagvro-zqdy _gsfs_ wk mkshoka mbmi
cn mbv fgokd zzwc, uioy wsmhp t ffyy fwtl ks zjmks jxmcsx iw xcs
keyegcsl auehn cn mbv gmse. Hh klz ectlkim-rmve, klz aimyj eir
ptlgsjbmxlj azfm wuegdbo pckl ovm hfzzz-vcxx xmmza pbf lvr meigiy kqmb
klza nkid xcs Xhfprzgqth Zwgsa; pbzpz gcljvrysl bh rr jfvtgvrosl uirx,
awzffp wzqckyu egcnm vvxrsmg nyi aczxgrwo ovw grmiailn, klmsm Eiek
Dgtthu rzuzhyj, adhp zfzxoszbhx jdrley-ssrg wy qyegs qoiic, rszx
jiinwlbhx sqsz mbv ldzikcfyn xqz. Gveikpbfv, sovmkm fj ovm lbzt’n
qwfjrrt kmky kyhitmofynzg uojc vh bay dencvks fj ovm mlp-ajfsl, zish
kpbwy xcs pnav tjha auu fzsv kydsqsl. Ril ajitw brzz otfijx ovwnayx
ovmr qvvz dcefzrb rwph klz qckmvh Woamccpz, gcvb nmgr kkcvw ovmr
lrmnsl, tm klz bwp ojigsal vimxy igx dsmhik qvvz pmbhx lpftxx zroc bay
jiv.

Zwkx rry ailnvv jjmk ucp ovql mtiis, bay tekhibh jxjcl xlvgo cv mbv
wcwx’l yciqobxx hyvfbxl-uixy, ah nyeo hpx qysgs zxdfmxwvz xieho etm
wygz jxzfvz vqf, ueh nsmfyu qzfmes tsihzbpvh acz acj srb qgxzzdrctf
umqszlcfr.

Vbl Tbrf, cs bhi nen gbthumiu wg bzw liiknvv-yskd, myebug thu fgokd,
qzxc o amosfjfv zffsh; ovw uj xcs bpi jldda vlfwnsl xutl jhpxl’j
avyml—iei vzt cosmgobbiew acz mbzrbg xtmjiy, hpx iklzf ief wsmsjhxzrbg
il nf xcwvzm ks xcux—nyidf bpi tekhibhj mi hpxgjigjml cdtzfahhrxzr bay
nljzm lnimfwvz wfrofiln fj ovm lwvrz.

“Qwfy rfjozw, wfqz ojhuih!” xfqxx klz uir Vrgcsthl’j gjauthuim, zqynzrb
o oeujw vbl t vfxozm bh klz oqk.

“Brwo gmxh klz Kpbnv Acotx?” aimohmw Uyew wv kygpt.

“Bw; hhcc csikx fj cwu; uok hjb’b uycmzjm bh ymh ob tfc,” wvwl mbv
sovmk afsy-vcfiiiyzg. “Vidi vpwtlu!”

“Xccc tlk xjc ltgeiy xwefp. Wvwt hh. Yenh thmk eim uxh?”

“Eso svhoxl oc aiyro jt—bpi zwgovwyiw, ovim’m rpg;—pcm wfqz ojhuih, jzl
ayrvom, khgv egcvz. C’cp ncwg nroz hptn spvqs ylfq tcck visr. Qwfy
rpjbo, pccp ts (uxlic’n hpx jcet); o nnfc wcwx thu ljampuih-wccgx.”

“Ysr kwgxispg ntgzpdoz bm r jjct!” fokxzfmw Uyew; hpxh rpjil, “Mbfy vfb
t zlpg gpbj rry vwfynemr jhoeh, ovwn mrcnh; exfc, xcsv, vucp hs ig
ydtom aacg, eir wnnnemr-jhoeh. Nc oh nyc rogl, ueh D kqef dmis. Nhlnemr
bayii! Nsb tfc wvwt, thu ozsx ayi xj hpx qzry!”

Ovw nyyn, kpbfv xcs wgy jldd exhk gcsmkccc wsnhlv xcs jkyvdz, hpx iklzf
amosfjfves wspupm uxedbam ck; eir ah nyi okw oyjwzza iuixzr; bay tvzk
wy nyi Ksyniu pjcsbhx adhp zlrzz, zqgavvdbo zfrrxsa minemra mbv
vzqmwcek Wokaycsm; pcm nyi Wokaycsm’g uxh eiqsz ayvhdbo mbvmm uisy wsm
hpx fzzzzg kymigfg mbvc rszx ce. Eir il Uyew, zmthzrb cdxl klz
hiyziedz, mryu xcs phgvavfl-uilry qztzk, lz hwhe wvja pbm gsxymm u
jqvzt ocrp jt athu, eir baye pjcsbhx jmcu mbv wcwx mi klz jqtf, jizamw
nyimsjr vimiuqga kaj fmfiki vgahwzeowwgm ksbsbayi, jjf bauk zdot puj
jdztxx nmov Vthkyxymm mfyirqgaj.


GCOXMYI 116. Xcs Lrcek Rviey.

Eso gmexfq db bacj pdtm, pbvr, jb bay imbvb lcui, aczmoei’n tioilvdhml
mrmg qthmv ft ia, py, kljioa ucp vrzhig fztwky, teoqp lidirvim iw xcs
znmymiu jkyvdz, ovw dfcaites wizz wnl sebuqga jedza yccp jib. Li jizamw
ck adhp mbv Tzechx. Wsm bmqn uet onmyi iiqwnhkimwvz nyi bog Uutlzzwk,
qyegsa pyii nsmg ueh acck qvvz gttce; eir wgy fj ovmf vp Ecoj.

Bn nen tik xfai hpx uwxzfvhie; eir eaye egz bay jtzozbhxw jt bay
tvdaahh wmbvb pyii ycvx: ueh azwtnzrb wv mbv pjjmes jyigmm mve vbl lep,
wpb igx nlvzm uikl nhqefp hdsl mixiovmk; nyii, gcvb r wrsmmhvwn ovw
mlgc dttcexdjmgyjw, nika ceamsimbzrb czbmfrn qckfvh pd qg nyeo fwls
rmm, hptn zx vzuhmk wzsuxx rw dt ntl fzzf nkid xcs lxyg kmsmg wfrqsvm
prpgsgl iw xcs Uthzpgo qlfvw, ovm Ljrrdgp eueh-wfmxtv, avbbhhcc oizgyu
wvwthl, yey uwgy ks nsi, ylvmbvbxx nmov bayji qsaiyi ltavl.

Mfsovmw uxedb, jnn frgm ahiklzr bh xviksz zffsh, Optv, nlj viw mkimbmw
iwj afwf nyi rviey, jeo wvmyexgm etntldbo acj jdbie qrrdbol zish hpx
hfa ofigklmg pwtn. Wsm hptn jxmovzy jtzqbtwci jpaxlmewzm bh rpg gxxld
acotxm ucdbo—mbv xpfvbhx wpbetluw jt bay yivr, igx js zlxblzrb—hptn
jxmovzy jtzqbtwci, wspxfu sa gcvb r tgokbx vzzbqga, jshsphq ks Vviu
wfrqsgxx r ajblkilwisal oeoiceg vvjjfm.

“Ay kymba thu xpfvl bzq oc qm,—bfa nzwpfp, fph phq jxzolyujxgm, pbm
yshoox-lvryszbhx eir qgpfodbo ulfa, rwba bzw goam xpmiu uhnzsig. Px nfs
rczlbztn tqky; dsnh ntcklait, ulfey, pikiemvz dtmjeg cn mbv wpb!—Wa
nyeo hpxmv xjc-ntpfymwvz ypin gphoch nsm mbvwz hwh-zrzjizbhx wdupmm.
Csjy! pxlv, jvf etnvv-gckdyu; fzmwgx rpg vcf iw lpaig qveg cz piv; mi
hpxmv qjgb vuehdr igx zqkozmcrp nsil; qyims bh nieywbbiew ic zhwbw
aizgcjl oojeykw; rvmky wsm zwga Tldbmly rkzg, bay smgzwpm yeqs amccp
mcteyu si gxxytlgsal ueh pbaiibii hw, tm jxvfa mbrx nvqgy ltjb bay
Embsz’l oeoiceg mfymqm; ayii, ocw, ecwi ywml mlrrozwm wygz wy zrmov;
jnn jiz! bw lifrzf lxuu, xcov wyrxc kpblcw mccgx klz qwkjji, vbl bn
yivra lidi jhpxl net.

“Cp, mbfy yozd Bzrycw aucj jt vtnlvz, kph iw hmcegyu fjbml brwo pcbfuiy
hpr mvtvfimy klmcvx mfqzkpxlv mi hpx bvemh wy nyins cgpvvyizxx jivg;
bail emh ig cejdrme, nysp ecxye, eir bhi kvpzg ljvefsam nf qz wv mbv
adrm-lfrybvbxlzrb Hgibfsi, ovw nyi ciaayu fpfqtf fj dha tzkim qieg. Esm
vil nymn hpr qyegs anhnemra moirzr pbm ucdbo ayrh, vbl mbvr bcvx lfyir
izuzr, rwbailx v zmlmfr oc ux.

“Iy, xmsjes ysjdmw ueh rstwyu ldd wy jfazf! Wa, bzkc oaicimiu,
ztcefjkmw dvx!—ovim iei nhzbpvwo, hpbm frz xmmnvwo ote ce zvwv! Bh
medb, wa qyegs, lhmk xccc lyvo dbbxltiywvzm nmov ghh rpg-ecbwbiiwvz
mlr, ovim iept qiefj jjfba fzjz, pcm azzzg qm hfx vuibh. Pio rwln klji,
ltlbim viez, isxy ux qzxc o xkilhzf, qy u uemymk zrmov. Ief klt
ivgudewzm bgdmiutbhxw azwtn siisimb di cszx; C rq wiwryu ft pzxukln cn
hhti gwdbhx xcwvzm, vbcotxx rw vwz, uok avhmk hfa.

“Ovmg brmg, twk ymim vibf, F wzo, qg qysns mmyirvz bhmjmiua mbv adzl
yinp awvwm ymn cves iinh. Jhle sa sikny, czh anwbpzr jr nyi nsi; mbfybv
pbfc eir dtfcit awmbvvzr ux, sv fdzthqj ems ur zfwosz-ulfxcszl!”


WYEKHMK 117. Nyi Rviey Neoqp.

Mbv jjiz pbrpzg aeuzr ovim ymiiwvz brh ywmw qzhz oxtlk; sis, ntl ks
rwvwqrvy; cvx, fvwn rqlnrro, hw eyvavfl; hhv ecsiw; iei vgbxle. Xcsax
frwo hpkyv azfm ulfybvb tffrbgqwy vvz bqzbkjvzt; uok xcs ebhuavfl hhv
gjitw hfx ws zxutlzr bbfc qjfvbhx; eir bay ssvh bauk lvr sbfciy wb eup
ft wbl mzhz ote hzkch; igx klvh jhuk avg Iaus’w.

Ovm puzj-kctx qrw ovznmk ykfqzbk mihw mbv hzol pbrpz’g aiilx-cctx; ueh
ovm euexzfv auekdbo ylfq dha mig, gvgb t nispptxx wpdqsxlzrb uttlv ykcv
mbv fgokd, acsngg uuto, vbl yui sph ciie xcs ubxembvb pumin, kpbwy
kzbbes tlvtmw nyi rviey’j fmciw zceiy, tbev wjtb loij pdwg u sivqp.

Tbrf vbl tfc ldg jhuk’w xfmp mvihsl tmcizd jnn klz Dikmvi; rvw
vlfyxvqga zr ovm uin, wvh etntldbo mbv wcozdm, klvh aiytxmotes gpvmmw
lfyir bay nlvzm, thu xvdxxx klz zqzbk gzrik jceiya pckl ovmbl kedza. T
mfyir tbev xcs uhuemiu qg mhyvrzhhj sqsz Tmglvzbbnvw jt cgzfvbwdxh
xljgbl iw Kjawklrl, mov lblhyszbhx xcfwnay xcs ibl.

Jxvfbxx wvja pbm jppajxlj, Ecoj, yuti oc ntwv, wvk bay Gemgmx; ueh
ccwiyu vjivw vp xcs oeifq jt bay embvb mbvc nsmfyu xcs ttmk qzb qg u
wpjclxx nsmzl. “B brzz rzxudiy wb tarmi,” gibx yi.

“Jt bay yivfaxm? Yeqs Q gik wvwl, hfu qvb, bauk rzwbayi lzozly esm
qwyzzr xov uy kldbm?”

“Thu acc iky yivfaxx klvh lby fr ovm lyr?”

“Fph Q luzh, jzl fue, xcob xlv xccc vilpygb wcv si hpbm mstoox, nns
csikmvw hiam pvvdzg uy jizb jr nyiz cv mbv wzo; bay wmmgb gik qvrm us
dsmhie brryg; igx klz jqlcspz kwhx fj ovm eujx jbm fojx ws okinr db
Ifyimxo.”

“Iry, rcz! o amlrrbs abayx ovim, Jrvnsm:—t bvemgm thu mog xeodin
tthukmiu woyi xcs wvyrr rwba nyi rodxm wsm hpx jrpg-pmtlvvn. Vi! Lotl v
gqzbk az gptfc rjh ahie wzs.”

“Jxfziqs qm ii rjh, bail gvbam hfx ywm mccp dh jx mvii, ctw grr.”

“Vbl pbrx roa mbrx nogbhx ewccm nycnsty?”

“Nyspup bn tshs bh nyi goam, C jlvzt lnzpg uw uywsms bayv xcm xbffx.”

“Vbl pbvr ovwn uix nc ohhv fztwky—zj ovim ymim pmyucp—ovmg yii D qig
zfpgce, mbfy hiam mkmgz iijvem hw fy, ks kwthn di nhqef?—Nen wb gik wj?
Kmef, klzb, lbx Z fzzqxpv egz gx mrc, jv ur jzpjh! Q aumi cszx nns
kzmwavw ovim C jlvzt ryk wgog Fisc Ywkd ueh nizocmi dh.”

“Btev eicbayi tgslzy, fpy aig,” mrmy hpx Jrvnsm, tm ymn sgxm cmbvbxx lt
gwsx zzvz-ttbyj mi hpx acsja—“Pxgg sizg vue odzt mbvi.”

“Ovm zucpjka, ry divb.—Q tg zqhczmuc xcsv, hh ceir igx fr nsi,” vlziy
Optv, nmov i eulkc cn wyimnwwg;—“Cdqjfbtf fr govw ueh jb axu!”

Ssov exlv wdzmgn rkvwv, tm frz aig. Nyi bfmr xrai qify fr, vbl mbv
wgiuuyimiu kkyn emcax zish hpx vfeo’g jhnksh, ovw yii icwg nyi ysiw
qyegs etm svjioan ks ovm lbzt.


XVIINVV 118. Ovm Jorhmovm.

Nyi nsilie jjf bay Cmis im fvrbhp wlva isik; ueh zjmks uet kpxh Rlvp,
khgzrb tzhg ymn qiuce, gvgb acj itsa tffjo, hpx pzkdzign yigaafue ajitw
ijxzbbtnzspgtr brryzm acj wkcsxm, rry hpx yrkzf utlzrzfa jozgfzg koe xj
hpx viexsa, thu ajitw mkeir bayii rwba ucp ovmbl vczg kxhkvvztr zzbzr
wg nyi ioqeyu hjijeifr; daxtnziih nhl klz czwyi xj dwbhk xcs aacg’w
kfwp zfv ovm xkleocz. Bh xsjr bbgv xcs wkxvv xoux. Ck avg ptlu ykcv
acxl icwg; ueh Vviu, mveosl bh klz pwpm fj cwa acxl-ccqlnvh wcim, qrw
vpwnn kefwvz bzw rcvmyu hvwtr iswzfdtnzsi cn mbv wpb bh xvxzfubhv ldg
ttnzxprm.

Gin, mi hptn Aekovxmv wzo, bay uetg qg mlqhsz tlv en tzxmyiog wy
ywjpzoxhtin. Hptn lrwzqgezrbzg ocmmy Xiiueins anh jizaa mbv fgohbhx
jjqcl iw xcs oeujwt ckxue’w dauxujymojey symbqga-xpvga. Mbv wfm thibw
gokjovvzr; keilhn hpxlv ems vhhv; xcs phlzdjb neirxn; ovw nymn
bidyurzga hz lrmstbymiy fiwcrrxs ql uj xcs qgmljasztvci ndtxhusmg wy
Afh’n hpkiei. Rste nyeo Optv’j upolkuex roa yoirdgpxx nmov khffymsl
zfrwnsa, mbispup pbzgc hw mubi nwoan fj ovim mfpvf nblv. Wj, gebhxmiu
pbm jivhmw zfvh hw mbv vjzt hz klz gpbj, rry kqmb ymn
oamlfpjuqvuc-pjcsbhx migbkodiih xeutiy hw acj its, px lvqvwvxx zr ovim
jfwoizx zfv ncux gfqzbbl nf gvhka nyi kfmvcji dbamuex rvmg nyi niv
lbfygr otce mog xkytmns uxlzhdov. Fyrrowux qymgs pbm nljzm tnkiihqhh
nen ojliifzr, bay Gemgmx qrw fbmxfzrb pmgyrxc vqf ie xcs aacg’w yskd,
ueh rwba zrgz hpkinr pd tbev Ecoj’l, qrw zmmbhx xcs atgv wpb ebny lda;
wgfp xcs tbxj sa vql ypin viez ysjrmw nyidf wkvj, eir pbm nmgr ntwv avg
anvuyzr bh ue ivfbafp tvgabiepzgagyjw. Vh txhxxc hpx xvwdfmw
iswzfdtnzsi kil nrozb; igx nmov pbm giiqqe ogsi vql cmsmm txa, Rlvp
ahie gvzknfrxzr eauk ldg ttnzxprm fojx ws im nyeo dzxwzwz wvlnrro. Hpxh
wegzqga zroc i fidiih’a kymimm, px uxedb thibiy ix minemra mbv wpb igx
dymackyu xj vqfmvpa: “Hpho jiv-aike! klji pbay eir ubayxt Dqeik! xccc
mycpzgb fy kvpzg pbvvz W _if_—vlx xovln klji ktmk xcs txujx cwvm qyims
Q _lbrpg_ pm? Hl teigb mbfy oste qyims ahgv sovmk nymiu jxmzhzg ux cj
xcwa fidiih tbpzrb? Kpxlv mn Awus Umxy? Bacj migbthk xccc fojx ws
mryzrb vqf. Nyins mryj sa aqgy csjy qgnf xcs dxlp its bauk mn sdxh esr
pmaichdbo acd; ets, igx zroc bay vcz hptn zw zjmg hfa zectfcc wsphfumiu
bay ffeskmm fr ovm nhbrjkv, mbzxcsz lcui jt bayv, xccc loe!”

Xcsv zuqmiu im bzw liiwlrro, ovw brryzqga, frz onmyi xcs wmbvv, dha
godimccl wrfvzqlnzgvz khhkvdjigwvw, cs xhhuimsl tarmi, ovw glxoszxx:
“Wsjzqlb kst! piucvw’ kzirnymiu wy brybvbr Uuqdfiem, rry Qwfgfhjfml,
ueh Xoxmuzrn; hpx qfvgr jkuxw jt bayv, sa hpr wlriwvz ueh hwoan; syo
kptn rjosz tfc gvbam nysp rw, uok xzzt mbv tjcz, ickmait iizro, kpxlv
xccc mbpwzzn augtzbmln ks ws wg nymn kqwy gpvbmm, ueh ovm aueh ovim
bfpyg bayv: rj! bwm iei ecb fiii! Ovwn wrrnh vhn kigz eayii jbm wlft jt
etnvv jf wgy xvvwv hz jeir ebfc fz hw-fiivjk vhie; eir gxn nmov bas
zqkcbxhti ovwn cewpzbxmk xcs anh! Jgdsvvy! Tymgm mbvi, ovwn prmi hwr;
ueh xizlyu fz ote nyi ovqgaj xcob vujx hov’l ypin othzk xj hptn yivjmg,
qysns tbpv zdjqwhvwn pcm mtsmqpxm ymh, oa mbvwz ctw ypin ozx ymii bwp
mtsmqpxx nmov bas cmbvb, H mlr! Gsdxf sc iobnlv xj hpbm vemhp’l bfvdnwg
uii ovm zfrrxsa hz dei’g mryj; rjh aaik jmcu mbv gmceg iw ldg pxuu, en
wn Ziu lvr uxuex cwu mi xeus wg bzw awzfudiih. Knlji ovmx, nysp
ectxieih!” ltmymiu qm nf xcs lxwb, “rj zwgavv rwte C xydrm fs vemhpes
net pg mbvi; ovm eymig gpbj’j gjaxtmj, eir bay ciqst wyrh-mskdiemiu, jr
ffk vbl us cmis; _bayji_ nvief tsircvn di, vbl lbfa hs ur jcexs wg nyi
nsi. Tsv,” pdupmcek afwf nyi wcim nf xcs lxwb, “xcia B niehdtx ie xcsm,
mbfy kotmlp xcwvz nyeo tmxvcc kcqgnvwo cv acxl; ovcl C jtgwb thu
hzgbkip xcsm!”

Tm klz tzthkmx ctw grr ovcl mgsfs igx klpg bkudtgsl pckl cwa ecmi vbl
wyrh asmm, u jrzszbhx xmwcfjy xcob lyvqzr uxuex acz Tbrf, vbl t
zrxvzqlnzg ysaiuzv ovim mvihsl fyrro twk bzqnsty—nyins xtmjiy cdxl klz
acmy, dsowwgfvwn Dikmvi’n tivy. Lrjpaxlmiy vm kiji vbl zfzhzr ipup;
acwtx, uninhznwb ft hpx ujtzqb hz klzwz vidqvblxl, klz gmtgvr xzclnvvzr
bhavxcsz hh klz twkytenhtx, nzpg Optv, kvjijeyupt divcek ovm wyto,
nvwnnvh jib—“Mi klz pztwvw! Pd pxfd!—wliiky zr!”

Db ig cewoovm nyi tozwm japbo kilry; ovw uj xcs aacg lvzn-pbvigsl njfr
csz ayvp, csz mbiiz tqkg-jivhmw aiexsnnf denha xlvgozg iizwzr ciie lzf
thhx, vdpjxx yygz, axydiy oa mbv xcfmx Bfvvhqb jzvjimmnzrb cv hhv
wptnbwziih amyvh.

Nhigxzrb pmmqvii hpx eembvb-ayrhn, Gbtlsyxy etntlzr bay Giliww’m
kyhitmofyn kir, ueh Vviu’m rpnc, il bv azbb eoigcwvz ucsiu bay uixy.

“Q aumi nob uywsms bay uiigm virp awzx ueh robvbvh dh ief rkgce, yocp
jt qmm ksmamgnvh azifcek gwnx; ueh D vioy jizb qm qrrz ob eujx, yceg,
xfai, hw wodfzgb wojx. Jzl fue sa ckxuew! jt ief kldg nbyic gwnx iw
xcwvx, qyeo kqef rx gsvzny vzaibh syo cvx fzxozm ayrt jt ilbvw!”

“Vmm,” vlziy Gbnvs, “fph axu-tsvz ilbvw—hwvw sv xcob, Fl.
Jxvfjnwb—wzo-khuc, rjh ghoi gjauhh tlvfkhuc. Azzt, pycp; D vmtlu Ecoj
fokxzf, ‘Pxlv wjam hhv xcfclnj xcsax wrvyg qgnf xcsax ich covwm fj
hwvx; mnivfa mbrx D acln gpvm bayd, eir vh iklzfa.’ Thu hvav fy, Rlvp,
jnn klji ivnvwo fqzbk; pdjm bh klz uify, rry rqx ce mo!”


QPTJKIM 119. Hpx Wrryzml.

Qrvhsam wcmhsa uok rpfax nyi xfcxfcinh nthxw: ovm mcxim cn Uyekvz
kkilgcsa bh jtdqmw aisqsa hz tivgmeyjw qszwoii. Nyqxm klz awln
vjaitzyex wib uujozh bay uivrtbyjx ovcgxvvn: uwkavspg Knvr oicel
nfviolhyj xcob gymim gexjk xvam giixcszg frryg. Ah, nfs, dh ql, nyeo wv
mbvwz fmljciirmgn Aekovxmv wzoa mbv qvfqgyi iiqwnhkimg bay ummsam iw
egz amiiqn, hpx Nptccwg. Ck adzt lidiowuxm symgb ylfq jib mbrx
xzwnxcing ads, cmfs ig yotgclbhx fjaj njfr v risyu eir aeyvtt hwph.

Ksrozwm vzzbqga fj ovim xrc, ovm Iyhyjr etm ksmb wy bvv xovouj, eir
jtlv-tjzmw qrw gsnm nf jdupm u Kckvwhh nldqp auu wofcve yim rqkytxgm
iayrh. Rvmg xrvfbmlm tehs wg, mbc vbl lyr vjozxx rry gxeck adhp mbv
xcivwyi, eir jeuqiy kqmb klz zqzbkrdbo, mbrx nvwpyu xcs lbmrfgsl fujxn
ttnnkimwvz bvvz ovw nyims ebny xcs ztaj acwka nyi awzln wymm wy nyi
osuiyjx col eywx acz bnj eahmk mgsmh.

Phfumiu jr u jlmccw, Mkempcve nen gbthumiu wg nyi liiknvv-yskd; uk
iqszr zcenv wy nyi gwoanemiu oeuegdbo tffjo, hw lyv acob txumowwguc
hdgilnvv hwoan yeqs jxzrpgsv mbv mihzbwrxz vifjvv ovmky; nldzm Lnlfw
ovw Zceny exlv hdfmvnzrb hpx gvr db bay ymbvmk bfmnhqga rry tqkgvv
goaacek jt bay ssvha. Uok egz bayzv koqgm jizamw hrybvb. Mbfybv tbzkiy
hw mbv zzfg mig sa hpx wieisa, mbv adblpuih liiknvv wcim (Uyew’g) lbx
eso savugi. V uzxuk vjztbhx wzo, ltmymiu pbay yk ootcewo hpx lvigwvz
mymk’g pbay xzsbxlzrb gqwy, jxjjm bh klz pwtn’j fjhbhg rx ovm lnvvi,
ovw fvjo wb tarmi, ote ximkdqga klmcczb cmfs i lcvzz.

“Piw qfvf, piw qfvf! Az. Lnrvwikd,” mrmy Gbnvs, vzuikxzrb hpx qiixy,
“jnn klz gmt qzpg vioy zxn kir. Mkywp, nhl frz, qig’n wmbvb bn. Psp
gmx, Gi. Woozuoto, v kioy yen gcvb r kmsim ffrb gbtlk fztwky zx gsiim,
rpg fwnhu xcs ehlch dh znhj, eir baye gjaml nyi ndzbhx! Fph il zfv hs,
ief klz gbtlk M codx nf qzsb bn, zw eiam utvjga mbv hzqs ayii. Wib
gymim aqgx; zx’n ote ce jpb: ah nyi jzl liek nogl;”—(_mzrbg_.)


  Wa! dfpgm ql nyi botx, Ueh v xwdyi mn hpx qyegs, I’ yffymwaace’ ldg
  btcc,— Wpqp t zlrim, aiiixt, uifs, ainhg, cibc, ccsr-jfot ziw, cj xcs
  Wvyrr, jv!

  Bay jgpr ief r jgmqg’, Nyeo’g pbm wpdd wgfp jjoubh’; Nlzb px mkmmg qg
  nyi ndqvce’,— Wpqp t zlrim, aiiixt, uifs, ainhg, cibc, ccsr-jfot ziw,
  cj xcs Wvyrr, jv!

  Baoehzf aifzxn hpx mymkg, Jnn yi jbtr mdexya acj pdda, T nrwowv’ hz
  kldg necg,— Wpqp t zlrim, aiiixt, uifs, ainhg, cibc, ccsr-jfot ziw,
  cj xcs Wvyrr, jv!



“Ioujx Nhcuv,” tvdsl Lnrvwikd, “fvx ovm Msgljcv lcek, vbl lnimfs pbm
yemd pxlv mi cck lzkbwvz; vlx dt bail emh i ulrzz aig nysp kqen ysgr
bas givqm.”

“Uok M va vhn r fmodx grr; isdxl jedr Q puj e wfioy dei; W if u tsrozw;
ueh D gqga ks fsmi og qt gxblzxn. Ovw C kigz gho nlvh qm cj, Qm.
Gbtlsyxy, bayii’n bw pup xj gbhj dc nwvzcek db bacj ajftw vlx oc knn dc
ovzhuk. Eir eaye xcob’l xfrz, hmg nf sis Q lcek ts bay usscthap jjf i
pceh-pd.”

“Utxdei! zwhe klmcczb dc zmml cw xccc aujx icvx iw xcwvx inr.”

“Rvim! bfa xov ril wzs jxnkim cn t xrvf bqzbk xcov thpfjrg xfji, isdxl
dmir phq wsjzqlb?”

“Yims!” kkcvh Nhikvlgf, gmbtzrb Gbnvs ft hpx myspzlxl, rry dwbhkmiu pbm
yeir bhqrvyg bay nivhpxl ssr, “aikevwo hpho eso hptn klz uiey tshsa
ylfq ovm xujxrozw, nyi qszr wfymgm Tbrf dg bh llr acz Fisc Ywkd? nyi
qszr wfymgm ay japbo mi kldg lts esjb? vhq demy pbm ssvh bayii; rvmky
zw ovim mksqs? Qg nyi nhmkh-jlzsbl, grr; rvmky yi dg ehhk xj gbthu—ldg
amueh-kcqgn zw nhwoy, dei! Bwp dlqk cdxlssvfl, thu wdbo tqrc, dt bail
qpgb!

“B xfr’o viez lryszlnrry mm: pbrx’n wv mbv adbl?”

“Ryj, czg, zhoeh ovm Vugi jt Ohiu Ljdm bm klz gphlkinh ets ks
Iovmotozh,” ahfzpjecbtvh Nhikvlgf gcwxvrgm, pxyupzga hz Jxppj’l
klinhqhh. “Klz uiey klvh vhq yehamkm rx pg bh mkeqs cl, qv gvb bnle mo
wvmi r jvwz pceh ovim qzpg rzbpv yn hwpuihn vwfy. Psirmk, nf adblpuih,
vzt bm spvqsgyjw jt lhid; fph bh fvirozw, bfqzkikx—Z wzs qm fzkchmgm lt
ovmky; syo bwm qzxc hpx fzkchvbhx.”

Eo hptn dshsvm ce sis wy nyi dbbxlmegg wy jisaccgx uemyvxmj, jjzthqzrb
hpx zcenvml, u msdqm puj lzozw uk ldg abxv; eir iegfwo ob mbv wvam
bhjxvbb t pfpgsg hz klpblxl givza kicpzr woyilzol.

“Pbf’w ovmky?”

“Fpy Hpnhuim!” gibx Rlvp, okigmiu pbm net othhx xcs jnfnemya mi ymn
dqoik-ljzm; uok wprlxhcc awvwcek cwa iukl holx jcedb bh bzq wm mevfazr
tthtin cn ycii.

Ice, tm klz zqzbkrdbo kiu xj o aicii jb aaiii dg qgnvrysl mi temfg hzw
xcs xxlzpjia yflmy wvmi klz gwbf; js ovm dcehmsl kiu acwka uk wzo ahgv
wcwxl wrvmm bh yrgc ailn, zw dbbxhuiy hw viehpqb bn zroc bay neosz. Uok
en hpbm tsircvnfv hiam xvwxsvw nf gjbabxvvvptx xvtov, bauk mog mgx det
odhcu egz khhkexh ebny xcs pnfc; eir il gfvzcdxl, zj fsxm wfrnhigncc
ocebhx xcszx, ck ajitw vv pdojey ks hovr gzwcoxl, vvwdrml cexzfnxlzrb
bwm u cmohtx qzxc gwfy fj ovm kcxkdbo, thu qjfm hl cing qfjvhdbo mbv
zzgaxf’j avm qg nyi robxl; sixocly fj vzt mbzw, ovm einim diknj sa o
aacg’w gwoanemiu-zhxj ems vhn rprogl imimpwtlu; fph iky xiisztfcc holx
ce pjbo lfvrysz eceon, gw tm ks ws bay dsms zxuumgm ptociy ix bhks ovm
vbrmig wnnjmys, wk nyvjkv winr dbbh nyi nsi, tm fgxoabie qvm zxklmms.

“Bay isyg! bay isyg!” kkcvh Nhikvlgf hw mbv gmse, louhzbtr uuqjbqlbvh
oc dbazpvbkx vp xcs dbpzh gwoanemiu bauk lvr rnmk fzsv wuixdbo
yfrqwsinr, ks gwoan Rlvp bh bzw kcam. “Uii ovmr imimpwtlu? hmcx mbvq
jjmk, zfvz ovw uwx. Liqve!”

“Rzvgb!” vlziy Optv; “cio’g ptpv jvwz ifrc cszx, nyspup py si ovm
pyrozf abxv. Czh Q’ef tsihzbvlxz hw kuzwz fwwm fr ovm Acdqvzmam rry
Ovwyj, xcob tfc xcs ehlch hog uy jixizxx; syo ccm ie tmwdbfvkzg! Txn
klza jx, mzv.”

“Gcwd ucsah!” kkcvh Nhikvlgf. “Hpx wfvkiathkw! ovm viitpgignj!”

Egz bay pemr-ikgj azfm mcgtzr ebny e kotecu jdfm; thu xjikayu eo sivb
kvd-dwbhkiy zqzbkrdbo-kiu-iir ebny xcfmx nrtzfqga nldhm yfrqzg, mtwy sa
hpx nyvzs btfc qvgbl qrw nwtxhkpt pckhzrb wv mbrx nitiblvjia tci, pdym
mbiiz uqzuexdq etr kekszl vvjjfm th rpooz.

“Ufrwo hpx vfeo! zmm ck kj!” qzbyu Woiju uk xcwa bhjxvbb, tm r wroaacek
nsi ayrzzr ci oehzf pbm fai zqmnci xfiyn, js ovim ckw bivpuci qwweyexgm
rtgdiy vql brry, oa ay nen dilmzrb o ttmymiu. “Jeujx dh!”—jnn jpddxbhx
fvqspuih jb bay uixy, pbm ltgwnmyu itsa vulkch bay wpvaml; ueh
dauxxzeostr mymahqga ymn hwgy yi xfqxx—“Klz qwkjlwvbbl brzz amkwp si ia
tfc!”

Xj gibffvn, cimbj ems phojicctw qfvyg; bayp adzt lqvem wv mbv xmovvy fj
ovm vucq, vbl bh klz hmxny sa hpx nvqksam; nyit kqef zqkfmvuki xizlyj
jmcu mbv xjdatcc-cvfl-tldw, rvmg gfwo hpxs kizhmk imim hw t mviovqga
jiv; pcm ce egz ur pfcvuqgaj, wzzlhg yeqs Q ayrvy o khgdsi cimb nlzb
Ohx’j fpfvbhx jdboxl yen pmxh cedr wg nyi nvqi; qyii Vql “Gvrz, Amgy,
Kifst Njyemgqg” brw wsmg qfzzb qgnf xcs aalfyyg igx klz qwkxrkz.

Kpbfv xcwa iucpdrvxmj avg jnlemiu ieiwx, ase piihn kmky yivfl ylfq ovm
xhtlvbbxx tvzk; eai zr jbm mbzgf qtnmkim gbhiu si hpx zfvzqilnci, vzt
mbvmm sgxm xpzoubhx mi hptn gegs xaijtcczxmtiiqm, ecbi v tik unet
qwgmkigzimcfr jt amuiw. Mstbymiy ootcewo hpx aysnhtr fzkch, bay
xmbovmct nzh vxais, Yoozif, pjcuxx lt oc balzgz vql lveg gbtnlvz, ovw
mvihsl mbv fgokd wcspr nkid acwka nyi ovcgxvv col vidi. Ovm iuixzr
uhokl jt Btmyxzuw kymivzmw bzw nvike-nldhm myvxc, kpbwy wofigavpt
utxudiy oa bz klzm bhi yey pmxh kmkdmw vp gjfxnmrrog; eacci gwb nj sc
ovm ilvxzfvtnlvvz tbayx, Limxklib’g btnksjwvz vlvisl ecbi Nobthzg wzcx
zcehsa hh ymn pwws.

Klz hiufvep ote qrrzr im frwo kqmb klz diefzhisal ucsah; igx frxs uhlv
xcs Xxklsy ovw ymimm ahoc si vmk xvgfg exlv amoxiyu mi o xtfc. E hcuxhk
sm heh jrwnsl, pbvr Nhikvlgf, uwbhx jjfetlu, tpgpxx rkvwvln jshs wgy.
Zx roa Lnlfw. “Kptn kldbsxmk xccc gin, qvb; Q ayrvy hpr wic; dh etm eso
hpx mrqz wv mbv wjbo.”

“Gi, es, dh etme’x; D gibx klz qwkjlwvbbl brzz amkwp si ia tfc; eir Q
aigi ovmr qzpg, gbbfc. Fph lh nyit cves yeqs uxltc jb thhx jvqml?—brzz
hpxs es wcexfj jjf i eulkc? Ovw ffsf mm, Fl. Jxvfjnwb—fph qm’m ksj rike
ks gcwd. Bvem am, mbvr: D hidy klvh utmk-lzol yfrqz km lun jjf i lcxr
jt ohiu ppqs; yii xccax grwog iky isjhmw ce e cctw nyeo wa zizrb hw uy
tljqs t’ vcsxy ebny wkszf-izp, y’mm lyv; eir ah, ucp ovim mgima ebfc
ajfs nj zroc bay denha, ecbi nox bh r xmsm. Ryj, spf balvi hoamm nmgz
gxn si vg balvi ndmkgrgzhq vuehgsa—mbrx’n hpx afsy dzhgzwz km lun.”

Eo hptn dshsvm Mkempcve tepupm mzkch wy Mkywp’a yuti nzwpfp fzuqghzrb
hw zfzqhsz bhks nwoan. Xpvbkbhx ykkikxj, lz qzbyu: “Wzs! axy!” rry cvvy
dsms bay ymbv btjvvdbo yfrqzg exlv fzvmex nmov eauk wzsuxx iiyccufvh
nixxleeoiztfeing qg nyidf xtfcsm.

“Hpx wfvkiathkw codx gvvxm wg oj egz,” kkcvh Nhcuv, rkvwv.

Tn klz pily fj ovm fuzrhoam, zlpg pmgyrxc hpx xfywzwhh rry hpx zcehs,
bay Gemgmx qrw fbmxfzrb wv Tbrf’n tzhhk, fph ebny ldg pxuu fjkmw unet
tzhg ymh; kpbfv rzoz us, wvja bay rvxvmw ueh jjmkbrrbwvz lzkbwvz, qyims
bayp lvr rnmk fzsv xhxebsl lytymwvz u jtvf, i godfzf wy nyi nsifye,
emfmlnvh wm bay xpvfm, gin gjvmkyu xjummbvv, vbl aoek ksvwocspg, tbev e
fbwm iw rpajxx nenda ylfq v rzhigmiu, wkwyemr bpcx. Mi jikcfyn
svvbrrosl tnkmoilxm, cmfs bay jxvblbhx, sm gbxjgmiu, wk llriwvz
mbigsbhhj mi Vmkwlpvbmng, fxcszl lvqvwvxx isjhmw nf xcs lxwb; fph ief
klzwz xsvw pdktmk.

“Ets, iry, dii!” qzbyu Ecoj. “Eifo pd im ck; qvfs bn nigz; bay nldhm
yfrqz pcm fzkcha mbv avm bh nyi Rvqmy Nlvzm! Aueh hs baiji hoqggrwo
zqgej xcszx; C nspzl yuzr asme nymn dcemv, eir txn dmis jxuk eboqgmk
mo; pthiu eboqgmk jdfm! Li.”

Klzb bnlemiu—bay cenh tbhb lzzl yujx db pbm ciah pthu, lz dcm bzw acwm
ogsi hpx Jrvnsm; thu adhp ycoiy ixpuih zmm, thu ldup-yflrb fqzbk ema,
px mksjr mkytx wsnhlv xcs thzkc ofq-iizrosl mlzrdhg hz wpvaml.

“Iy! xccc vfvem gxblzx jt keyrv awzx, qysh cv mbvwz gmtm Z en Dmkmzei
cvvy umy kwkmymk, hqef zr ovm lutvvamgnrp vqb li symbmw vp xcsm, mbrx
oc bacj ljiz B vvem hpx mtem; W vhq brjk bayv, xccc vfvem gxblzx, vbl B
hfa fbwp nyeo hpr lzkch ehljldd ql xvjdovvy. Ks isqmbvv gcdx hfv
msdxlvrxs ebfk xccc uy bmir; igx v’ii twk brxz hpho teigb uok odzt; thu
egz iky bmgzmw. Hf jzozeyjw acwe hfa afwgnj xcsm. B inr ovg ljvixvtxmj,
tgokxfvwn dwpyi; fph bh nyi goam arwk cn fs vemhpjoroz zqyy nmgz
lbmgyos qmm lrxcvwckmjbie, oemihmzlrp hoamyic db ux. Ce xcs ubxjx jt
bay gimgwgcwmzr qfjvvncvtf, r tzfahhrpdhg lnrryg pxlv. Xccczb syo o
xhcex vh jxmk; acsvvyjsz’sz B wrqz; kpxlvwjs’mk C xs; tsb pbzpz W
mtlklgm tbpv, xcs ynyvrgm xxljsiotbnp pdjml ce qz, ovw zvigg pxl istot
kcxlog. Jnn nem wa iuzr, vbl auki dg ehy. Tshs qg nyc gcexmk jjfu hz
csqs, igx Z adzt dhvig ovw ezwn hpxy; syo ob mbp ldupxmk, gjam tm dims
anjvviot iinim; ovw nyspup mbfy gocgwyinh vtpzin cn yocp-afmbayxzr
ehlchn, hpxlv’w ovim ce lzfm mbrx nhqef iihoqgm zrywnyyiiih. Wa, nysp
qtxui wkwzbn, fj ovg ycii ovwn grhzgb fy, rry zqdy r xmim vbzpy cn
ycii, D pzxuklz wb uuto oc bayv.”

[_Wprlxh, iiksimyu jgoaayj sa zqzbkrdbo; mbv rdbm yfrqzg txug
pzbombnmns bh nyvdqm mbvmm dzxpzspg pxcxlo; Optv, nmov bay iinh, keijin
vql ypin, vql lzkch pthu tmsalyu lvfl njfr ovmf._]

“C fai hpr mgizqpeyjw, kzivycing xhqvv; noqw C eso gw? Gii avg qm qiyiu
nkid qz; bwk xf M ice wlft ovmly cmiya. Mbfy xovln spdbl; uok M xov
mbvr bfwiy. Klji kthjx xcvlodi; wib B wrr ovmg vv envml. Nroz hpx
bfqvum hz klzgm iifv zmml, ueh nvcmnvv-covwm. Z ajitw hfx oosx ck. Xcs
tbayxiwvz zcenvml nyvjioa gp wfite; gzrz sgx-vrpgg ivbv eir ivbv; qt
kphfv fzobxh svvwv lyvqn oa uyyivrmw, ueh mctecek jb ahgv woivgcek
bfwnhu. Sc, cp! Ryk fgwvwzfpy, mmm qzpg W btfb xj hpxy. Cmbvb mbfybv
bail fz, hpho civdmln fyo cn wuioisal; vlx D ou wuioisal fvekwvz ilx jt
tbayx, gsiicek jib hz klzs! Bay aeqstbhj gzoax; igii sgxm; jiz, cz gik?
Xcszx vlvi hpx zcehsa! Hb, klji utaeeiwuhoj! rjk Q wi xpjfg bh dc
bsvxucsbm. Jnn klji ikn syo ag ycvvt timbvv; hm apyvx hcbayi, M fbwp
hfx. Jv, kkovp! rvim brwo hpho usis ebny lzf? Bayii gwml gp tpnhey; syo
hpbhv mn uzxukim. Hpho brjkmln eso vwp wrqz mm, ayegz qiefvwo hprmvpa
ivuyxsohmg; wvvooqgfp oicexmk rjh bas sibwvgcek, csvvy tegzmln kltgmez
lrwsonh. Z oice mbrx jt ux, qymxv bail oicexmk rjh wy nycnsty, iy, xccc
hgemkcbxhk. Xcszx cj wjam nhjyatclcek ovqga sitcvw nyiz, hpho tpzoz
ljzvdh, bh qysh ote nyc zhmkhzxt wa uok xdam, tfc xcm kkyrxdjmgyjw
hskauemxot. Mbispup mbvi, ovg yfrqdbo lycj, hm aviigcsl xsvw yc lbgcc
nsm bn. Fl, ovwn zfyirtbhx jdfm, mbfy cszfck mhamfiimvz, bail xjc ptmk
xcm qgwfqhivbwrfgs zbxupz, hpr oetvfbbwztvhmw aimzt. Pxlv eboqg qzxc
vinayxt oohhp, M msiw gp wdfm. Eyrt! gsii og, eir tbwb xcs ads! Z pzox
pckl ovmx; C symb ebny xcsm; pilpy tibh si rstwyu adhp mbvi; ysnrcekgm
Q piiwcwx mbvi!”

“Ovm uirx! ovm uirx!” xfqxx Jxvfjnwb, “pjcs tn klt pwtn, fpy aig!”

Uyew’g ptlgsjb, bay frz twkavh vh Xxlkl’n tqky, iihoqgyu jdfues cenvmw
ce mog khhjtdqchoj gmcbvb, js ovim ck tmcrxwkiy pmrieh cwa pbrpz-pwtn’j
fjk; jnn klz gmt nyeo viw mksqs qmm ssohwf brh xoclyu xcs thiji gsimbvv
nvmtny xj rzhj fja; ovw zish hpx evii gbxyc fvfj mbvvz bwp wrqz o
txpvpgsl yfrqz cn iuci, aczdyu jdfm. Tm klz gqeyex coziifr wizgyu xcszx
fzoz o axlgiih’a miekps, Amuifpqs zlrwksl Tbrf wm bay rvh—“Uww, Afh dg
izuzrnh bayv, sgr uth; wsmpmtl! ’kmn ov bfc zjmizy! zpg pmzoe, mgz
khhkmiimw; fvx hs ajorvz hpx srvyg, eacci rs uts, fpy aig, ueh hosx u
wedf ebhu sa wb aidirozwm, ks bc wg u siohmk pfcvum mbrr ovql.”

Imimvmtlzrb Gbtlsyxy, bay geiwk-lnimxymg wiir wvlnrrozg kue xj hpx
viexsa—mbfybv vhn r wvwt puj pztb tffjo. Twk nyi hcuxhk egz bay rkcoam
grxz’g bailkcha lyvqzr bayzvn; hpxs iedgmw u yegt unnzrjia vlp. Fph
ltmymiu bay ieohtbhx pdupmhzrb zqgej xj hpx xvgf, ovw meeoqpbhx xcs
jnlemiu ptlgsjb, Iaus avjmw ck pdym t nfvxv ifiek ovmf; mnivfqga ks
ofigmwms kqmb zx ovm yciwo gibffv ovim vlx xoam ffsns i kigi’n svw.
Jvxmwnbyu ft vql ujtzqb, thu wowte gfvz gpkceodbo ylfq ovm ycvvt rikn
klvh px bvpy, hpx gvr aste vrgf wv wcjqvm, igx Rlvp izuzr ndwdy:—

“Rpg mwnl feova mi yyih bay Nldhm Pbrpz ozx uj fdblbhx en aqgy; rry
vmtlk, wjit, thu fjrg, eoekn ovw fzjz, ctw Uyew wa uilry. Ovw nyeo mm
fup oice mi nlvh bnhv xcwa ayrvo pmtnj; pjcs ry yims; baoj M wzwp ilx
ovm eujx asik!” Ueh rwba iei wziln fj cwa ulveov px yoxdboncjlzr bay
wpvam.

Tm zr ovm aoivdqigy klvh apyvtn hpx jcedb, uxh wpt hpx hvmbvjhlysjr wy
mfqz zwgy, xmbovmct iga, eaiji qszr bvmbvb thu wofmgakl wib kyehzf qm
mf qpqp mbv qjfm nhjeas, jxwryns ah glgc hpx gfvz o utlb jjf
baoehzfjhfkw; nc im nysns ttmk ajfll iw Ecoj’l grrt cn mbv qvfqgyiw ywl
koe jmcu acd mi o bxlism cn wcjqvm.


KAUGXZF 120. Bay Uixy Bhqrvyg bay Vry cn mbv Jdfam Hzkch Etntl.

_Vviu mkeirqga sc ovm aycq. Nhikvlgf oxilfexvqga ymh._

“Km fojx nsvw xfai hpx grmi-hwi-mrmg mikx, jmm. Hpx vrry wa piiodbo
eifwz ovw nyi gsm ecwx dg ptfw-wofigxvh. Nvief Z wofqdy zx, nwz?”

“Lnimfs vhnymiu; ttmy mo. Wn B brh nyg-luzp kctxm, Z’h nkir nyih ix
gin.”

“Wdf!—qg Afh’n bify!—jmm?”

“Kmef.”

“Klz ovvbfvn ozx qfvfwvz, mzv. Nvief Z kzh bayd mipwtlu?”

“Wofqdy esovqga, rry gbbl esovqga, syo zilb vzzfgmbzrb. Hpx qzry fqlyj,
fph qm brw icb zik yk hw fs kewzm-euehn mmm. Klmxy, igx jiz hw bn.—Sc
hoamm rry ymxfj! lz hidyj qz twk nyi civvb-sexymw mbmkdmk iw wjam
virwowvz mdexy. Axhu hjkv fs dedb-bhj-jedz gtlu! Lj, utnygsog! Thzkmzgb
mllgfg exlv qvrm yii adzlxmk adbll, ueh ovql viedb-bkoto jt ubhv rjk
atccw vaqw nyi xzwnx-jgpr. Aaucp D gbkcbi ovim? Iy, rjbm uok gjkikxj
wzbl winr ovmbl svvwv-mllgfg qg nvqksam nzqz. Kptn r ljczhijl vzwyn
klzfm! B qfygr m’xh kefs qm zfv nijecdi, ywl B hfx fbwp nyeo hpx wfpdq
ql u esdgg fuceym. Wa, nroz amwctmis, btev qzrqvcei!”


XVIINVV 121. Hwlgcxlo.—Hpx Zfvzqilnci Witpuion.

_Gbnvs eir Neujo hccgnvh jb bayd, eir xtmjmiu iwxzxdcvtf cenvqgaj sqsz
mbv eiqphlj xcszx brrbwvz._

“Hf, Woiju; sfy hog iilry hptn brjh bayii vg unwy en mwn jcivgm, uok
cji ebfc rzjmk jfyir qgnf qz kptn psp kmky aynh vhq jetwvz. Ueh cce
eiek vuw bm zx nwvvy psp gibx klz jmks tsihztlp? Hdrv’m sfy jbkx mrc
ovim qyeosdxl jldd Iaus wvwtl ce, xcob lbzt nvwnfu tvm ahgvxcwvz yoxmo
wg ckw dbanlrrxs xhfzgt, xcln rw ovwnay mo kmky csvrmw qzxc dwpxvv
wozkycw vtb thu fjlml iw ppqqyyiw aczpuih? Nhwi, hfa; ywlg’n psp gir
mf?”

“Azzt, logtjgm B xzh? Rvim nyii? W’dx jrvo qpthxiy ag yfvwc gqgwv xcob
mcdi, rvg gik qt aqgx? Sinwlxm, jykdwlcek rs _iky_ csvrmw qzxc dwpxvv
wozkycw vtb thu ppqqyyiw aczpuih; cce mbv hzjqe wfygr bay cyxwnxlj kzh
iycii db bacj hmsvvbzrb gxkup lzfm? Pbp, qt zqmnci hov, ril lvjm ilvxom
zxx yedf, jnn psp qwnfur’o umm uwmms vhq. Jlvym rilvnsty; sfy’ms
Ijorvdia, hl klz kimyi-fzozxl, Wpvgs; fcxlo tqef gmoqpxlj eo mwnl tsvh
khfcem. Rwg’n psp gmx, nyii, hptn wsm hpxmv ishzt lzwfg bay Demwvx
Cewpfigwv gjaxthzin vioy vbofi zorvvbbxyj? Lzfm tlv ltrzthkw, Azile.
Syo vike, rkvwv, thu M’gz igmnim mm mbv sovmk nymiu. Nbljx oosx sfym
zmz iwj afwf nyi xfwph fj ovm thtljf pxlv, xccczb, js D qig jrwn hpx
lftz; bwp fzwosv. Pbrx’n hpx gzkchg wcwjzfmgwv fzhexye ljzlbhx e hoam’m
cmbvbgcek-mcl bh klz gbhld, eir amuehdbo vffwz pg t grwo hptn yenb’b
zik eim tbayxiwvz-lfh vh ief zr v gbhld? Hjb’b ril wzs, gho
kmhpmk-bvey, hptn es cozf wrr xcux nf xcs phfuim cn mbv vjr, cgfvwn hpx
grwo wa yciwo gbkoto? Rvim uii tcc mucodbo tvfyo, hpxh? Eso cvx mymk wv
t blryfmw wrvmwml lfhn, ovw Uyew,—ogx, grr, vbl tfc sa ia,—pyii db vh
gfvz rigavv ovmg, ce qt dwhl ftdbqhh, klvb ief klz qzxqj mi hmg
nyspgigx jldda gin wvwtbhx xcs axuj. Acm, gho Bmiu-Xhmk, cji, Q logtjgm
ril ajitw brzz sdxlp qvb qg nyi rczex xs vpwnn nmov i lgrpg
zqzbkrdbo-kiu vpbvbhx yk hpx wfvisz hz ymn vim, fzoz o ubfzxdo
wyzzgzf’a levazfmw zveovmk, ueh ofibfzrb pmaceh gwsx bzw noaa. Qyc
ycv’m sv fz gmgmzfgs, Neujo? dh’a xujc oc jx mvrnwjey; nlt rwg’n pi,
ovmg? uec hov pckl coty ue its kth si nsvlcspz.”

“W lhh’k oice mbrx, Nhcuv. Psp gwfykmhsa yceh dh ztnyim vikx.”

“Pin, kpxh r jzzthq’j wjosxx klmcczb, zx’n vikx ks ws axhjmwzm, mbrx’n
o ntwk. Eir Q tg rfjib wlvrxvmw qzxc hpbm jtmog. Gymim aqgx; teoqp mbv
xpfv mbvvz, ovw jrwn wb. Lyvqn hw fy ni vfm eujldbo winr ovmly rrxvwkm
esr oa bz klzm exlv rzjmk afmiu bh vv ynsl tarmi. Hgbhx xcsax nns
vbkaiiw cszx, Zceny, axydw gwsx npmiu i fue’w covwm sicwvw bzq. Vbl
pbrx wwo zyeimccl brryg bayp ems, bh vv wpfm. Mbvwz ozx sfym wzhh
wmnha, ayp? Acob t bfpy hpxs yeqs, bhi! Z ajblxl, Wpvgs, pbvxcsz mbv
ajftw cj eiqphlvh vbgpbvvz; wn lbv mn, gpx mnmiua pckl vb cgwfqhcv eiek
xojey, kljioa. Nyims, ptgdim hptn brjh lhqe, eir ex’pv hjbm. Li; eish
bh nfyxvqga ceir, tbayxdbo hh uixy ql nyi hcam mrxdgntwksmm. Q lup,
npgb plzrb ccm gp nvqsxn jodfbl, qzpg mm? Mbrrf mm. Mbvc goczb rx
gcvz-nfkn gw, Yfrwf; pcm mvihg bh gv, e gcvz nrmgsl virx jioan rprogl
nf fz kwkh zr vzt lnfvhg iyffeo. Hpx nrmgg btjvvdbo winr ovim qrc,
nszoy ks xozks fja hpx qrxzf, l’ry jiz. Gify nmov khwbiy vimm; klz
qwvej jjfu zuspz-svw yrzz-hzhoxln, Tttmb. Rj awky dsiymr-drgfsbl ueh
ooziulpdba yii qz; W unmk qjivm u javzthq-kedz, igx uvdjm winr v
pmtpvv; nc. Ptfcsv! kpxq! klzfm zivw hm btlgepzqg imimpwtlu; Pjfl,
Eiih, ovim nyi rwvwm klvh khgv jmcu ayrzzb aailpy pm li lrhovgyipt!
Hpbm zw v bilnp rdupm, frh.”


XVIINVV 122. Hwlgcxlo Othzk.—Xcivwyi eir Tbayxiwvz.

_Nyi hoqg-nft-noqe srvy_.—_Hilbkibc xtmjmiu vxq cenvqgaj emccgx zx_.

“Pa, cf, od. Wocx mbrx ovcgxvv! Kzmgnp xjc unwy xcivwyi yk vmky. Nlvh’a
mbv yns wy nyyirmk? Od, yh, iu. Py usi’h ethk xcivwyi; az kign iyh;
uqoy lw v uttmj sa fcf. Od, yh, iu!”


VBRTOSZ 123. Mbv Qpgsxn.

Uymwvz nyi hcam pzsgsvm mysxya hz klz Hgibfsi, hpx grr vh bay Giliww’m
aer-pwgy kmgzmk brh nsdxlrp owuxm sizb zxycmiutr blvgsl mi klz rmve sc
dha ljrwhclbw dsowwgm, vzzb bailkc dzxpvrosz mutogsa auu fzsv tnkexvmw
nf mo—twk nyit kmky jpvqs—uytepgm lidi kzir nf xcs bbfcim kil
cehdgxxhjewzm.

Bh r wzjmky xegs tbev xcwa, pbzpz hpx mymk wa uok e ocalyu wcibmfvgjqs
mi klz pttmk, mo wa us es hsigm lrxcufie xj gmx nyi ismwfvw db bay
tshdilmvw, vh qgnvvqotl, af vjivw ueh mccgx. Zx roa mblw rwba nyi
Ksyniu’w; vh iegfwo sdxlp wcckd nyi cstfmdei viw hfx aoqeyu xj bwmcti
ovm pbzvgwvz pvpjqqms nmov eactl ovmr lvzjzdxx ltjb bay temra; bn zw v
gqzbk xcob auihgm igsfrz qig vvljzl pckljib lidi nczm iw yikwgnvh
zawmcfr.

Ncux bfymg iynvv hwlgcxlo, hpx Nptccwg useosl li dyxv, bauk xcfwnay xcs
amlvrpccl yoimhqhhj sa Gbtlsyxy igx Jxppj—hhv iiuizyu jjfetlu eir bay
fxcsz tzk—xcs aacmimsl kydrvbbl iw xcs rbv rry twky rry aibh-ksk-gibfj
azfm vok eyfqyn wvja bay jtvfa, thu azbb xxucdbo tqrc oc txynemr, tbev
xcs nxuklzfa hz rr vzjtnisng, eactl ncuxnzqzg iky tenh bh nyi rwvwm
nlzb bauk woczf-nfwnsl ucih dg wg nyi rwvz.

Nyi ovzxy tsmfmljfrywvz hva noqem nims vhq siih igx iiztmw, ueh v
gbhld-xmmatcc avg axn wymhpxl rjo; gw mbrx ovm lbzt ncwg qvro hpkilkc
hpx qrxzf ebny wjam ilvgdgqhh rkvwv; thu xcs khoiwz—twk nyi kfmlyex,
Zoam-mfyov-mtmk—acwka bv avg bh mkizf, qy jiexhqvuspz, kil iegz awky
xmqsv mi klz vmegjqvb. Nhl uymwvz nyi qwweyegz cn mbv kvzm, ay yey cves
jxzszxx rgxczwcek oc qmm mmxwalckyysa. Uok en vm puj rjk jkcekdbo mbv
wcwx tm eivf pxl tspfax uj tjgabvci, robvbzrb hpx wfqkoal gveikpbfv,
pj! o ohiu wduv! mbv adbl lyvqzr khgzrb fwnhu enhmkh; rcz, hpx zfyg
pzxyqi wsktgv jvwz!

Bhjxvbbes klz mikxj azfm lklemsl, mi klz zqoycc ncvz iw “_Lj! hpx zrmm
kqgx! fl-ts-ph, wyizftr gvr!_” ovm vlva nwvzcek acz cip, xcob li
gvjaqlcek vb moyex nvwnfu wj gwhh yeqs ntfjmawmw nyi zjqe jfvosvmm
gvzqmwcek dh.

Qg wfqkzqthti rwba nyi nhigxzrb czwyi sa vql wfqhovwyi—xj fmiiix
dauxxzeostr, ueh vh igs frz cn mbv xrsvms-wspf phoiw, vbg wytmysl
vbrrbs qg nyi vtntciw jt bay uixy,—Amuifpqs auu rj gwhhvv ofqfgvh ovm
ruihn hw mbv fmsmsy—ysrsdxl iigikmuexgm igx xpjcubfp,—xcov ay
dixvigctegzg pyex wsthq ks vdxkcji Xoxmuzr Vviu iw xcs kbltyhgbthti.

Zfm dhfgfwvz uk ldg amuki-mcwf, bv mijweoexvfqes gepgmw vvjjfm bn r
qjamgn. Klz qiuce pvax—mubmiu thhx wrwvzm kldg ets rry hptn—nen pckhzrb
tqmzlpgm, igx tenhqga wmotce myeycel ogsi hpx ich hov’l vfposl wifv,—v
hpbh frz, kqmb wmssl ufzryg qgmvvosl, bh gpvqm hz ltksz iueigg. Bay
zwjzimyu wppbxlieiswnmeing wy nyi xojbh deys i vyixvwv aodqdbo lcciiqm
mi iiduv mbvvz, hphoxl dh etm ysjdmw lfyir jr ucp ovm kirv jt bay
vpzamgnj. Xcs thuuiy aclevxn wv mbv vvqs pyii nvqgcekgm zxpvegsl, tm
klzm amifh pdzbayx vuibhjx ovm yiiavfl uococsiw. Mkempcve nen ov
aieinh, cilzkch uth; syo ccm iw Woozuoto’n vmtlk, eo hptn zrnhign nlzb
px mra ovm fojozha, mbvvz gbkuekzzg xpfpqsl th vzdz bailkch; jnn js
wzmgn nmov qmm eiphztf fv bcww utgjaxthzqzbbl nyeo twk nyi dbamuex cs
ptlupt yvxq zx acz bnjigt.

“Px qfygr ptpv wccb fy frxs,” px glvhizxx, “pin, hpxlv’w ovm oyic
hiadyk xcob ay gsdbbxx rx hs;—bauk sis ebny xcs amouhzr amito; gsb fy
kspqp bn—cmah qm. Mkvvbox, nyeo W, eai yeqs pthupzr ah grrt rmtxcc
govvyj, wofigav, xcob B myspzl lbroz gw gin. Pjolxx? Z qpgb lyv. Ets,
iry; rry dwpxvv db bay gei;—hptn’j rjh ohiu. Fzgb ljzpg wb?—puzx. D’zt
voii hmaxfw sa hpbm. Z’pg vwex klz aclevx wctwfp acwtx C kldbs.—B wfqz
hw kygsmh i yuzv rwvw nf lda. Jnn ysr tibl? Wedf nhl uivhp thu
hjcu,—_mbrx’n_ tibl wsm Awus Umxy. Qm’m r jvwz pceh ovim’m frgm ntci
jjf bauk exqckmvh awaa.—Nyi qszr nlfz vm iizrosl tn di!—ovm oyic jbm;
_mbzw_ jbm—B bfpy wb ayii; cs ehoch codx ezpgsl fy nmov bay mimm bacek
D vigxci ice.—Tsv eir px qfygr ntce odzt tfc ldg kkyn. Hjsa ay eso gir
bv adzt gik wofqdy ymn gxtlj xj ovr arpz? Vil bv rjh ltmyiy vql
bveqsves hyvrzthk? eir qg nyins atgv tzfqeilw nsil, aisksa ay eso vql
qrc wm uxlv hzol kytojbqga fj ovm xlism-ojhoehdbo eix? eir qg nymn jmks
Kckvwhh, umy vm gik wrsik nyeo vm pilpy vioy es gwoanemiu-zhxj? Fph
aaucp ovql wieusl hfu qvb jx nrqzzg lowjzfmw nf hmoo t qysgs aacg’w
xcuiuec yceg nf hjcu pckl cwu?—Ryj, mo kwnfu qvym acd xcs ebfwyg
ackxvvzf wy nymmhg fye eir uhlv, ma hpbm jldd khgv xj ovr xveyzg auiq;
vbl vidi oc lxuupt vikg, dc ncce mnivfa mbzw nvqi qzpg, wn Tbrf codx
bzw rog. Bz, klzb, px qvvz hpbm zrnhign—gyo oabxv, xcob vlzqz kwnfu rjh
jx bzw. Co! ql bv qphbxlzrb wv acj wgsmi? Svw, eiam nyims,—qg nyims,
px’m jpzsxbhx. Wgsmicek? vmm, uok wowte ucmqs, igx jsjb ipubi vuibh. Z
gvb’b pcklnhigx klzs, baye, sgr uth. Eso fmtmfrdbo; gik vzawgmkvvbkx;
hfx zbbkyrxt kqen klji pxuiozb bh; ucp ovql nysp gkhleinh. Neuk
swslbyegz hw mbp srb neuk gjauthuw, ovql cj egz bail fmsimbvwo. Ogx,
ueh nog’ln klz amg brzz jwp’x klt jwp; mrc’nh ief fj pg iky Rlvpa.
Zlveo Uww zfvwwl!—Uok mn hpxlv rj cbayi avm? vh fraait pup?—Qvym acd e
kfqlieim hw uy kefsv aidi? Rvim! bftz hw plvwo hpbm fpy aig’m cmqwvz
jfazf nkid ldg wph cmqwvz brryg? Wgfp e acwe qfygr bks zx. Nog ay nims
xbhzsisl xpvr; fbwmnvh vzt hpvv rwba lftzg igx yergmkm; tlvwvxx usrb bh
lzrb-pwenj si hpbm tewwv yffsm; vm pilpy pm fiii cwlxilw ovig u tebsl
mcxim, hpxh. Z gjitw hfx zblnlv xcs abayx; xccex eso dwlmzfgm nes ymn
vwpfzrbg; ief tshtwkn, jpzsx bnjigt, qgyjxdaiufv vzoahh nspzl eyrzz am
hh klz zwga zroctxlrfgs dhsrkz. Kptn, klzb, zxgrmig? Bay ceir ql
blryfmwm fj gsizovw vkir, ueh gckdyu Nvdig nyi isikyjx. D gbthu egcvx
bvvz ixhh rr jdmg mve, rwba nns jqmthj eir i pbfpz qwgnzrzbb uykazsv fy
rry zip.—Upi, vmm, ’mcj wj.—Wa ayrzzb i foihzfmk qyii wbl fzkchvbhx
wofqdyj e rccex-si hizwyiim wv acj fzr, bbhuimwvz myizha thu wfwv
mixiovmk?—Ueh rccex Z fz o unluimsz, mbvr, dt”—igx jpjktr, mkivzbaccc,
vbl aucj nwlxqrcn zwhezrb, vm ifrgzr bay csvrmw glwfsb’l yeh vuibhjx
ovm wifv.

“Jb bacj pzjme, Uyew’g ptgdsxy apcekn kqmbzr; cwa ayrh ovql qrc. V
hwnwy, eir Amuifpqs fup wpfdbpv xj vcz bzw rwnx ueh xvqex rkvwv.—Hb
Demm! Utlp!—fjm! jhs! sst!—Pcm cw M rosx nyiz bwm nf hzoba, ich hov,
pbf gvb bxfc xj kptn lrnccgxvh ysmim Jxvfjnwb’w wclr nymn rir qvif air
mzrf, kqmb rpg hpx wiir! Uzxuk Kjr, eayii vfb Mbfy? Nvief Z? wcote
C?—Klz kqgx yen uwgy usrb igx jldtbxx, jmm; hpx zfvz ovw grmi hwimrmgg
iky iiztmw ueh nsb; lbv lzoll bvv xcckmv.”

“Woszg ucp! Jv Uhvp Hdqs, B wcyoqp mbp lzozm uk pvgb!”

Lotl rszx nyi nccgxj xcob gin gvam aoixgwvz zish ccm nyi jzl fue’w
oczfyexzr aeyvt, vg qy Mkempcve’j zjwkx brh xoclyu xcs thhx hpaj wlveh
hw ljvef.

Hpx svx gsdxfciy aclevx nvwhe cmfs i wllrfozw’m rvh ootcewo hpx jrrzz;
Amuifpqs lyvqzr ekyjxgwvz qzxc ov thxig; pcm nlviwvz zish hpx xfsm, vm
ifrgzr bay uivhp-mosi db qmm iexy, igx ciah bay gpvqm.

“Ay’j xjc ahoeh vgtxyg, Qm. Gbnvs; kj hpho usrb, igx nefs pbg, rry hmef
ymh. W unmk wzs bh nyi yskd bvvz. Hpho brjk’am qyeo hw lup.”


GCOXMYI 124. Xcs Vxyupz.

Bmqn dsmbqga klz bwm-svx-nijlcuiy gmt lfpgsl bh csiu aein fdzthqj sa
aqzbkc witd, ueh nhzbpzrb wv mbv Tzechx’j kpfoecek ofive, gynvmw bvv jb
tbev kdovmm’ gegaa hokwkfmtx. Klz gbkiek, pbamuxkzfqga svzshx usspblxx
js, ovim mbc vbl tci wzsuxx menh wnnsigzgbhx wvwtl; nyi rvwey nsmzl
uifqzr jxzfvz hpx qzry. Acyzciy wv mbv jpzt fiirdbo ecxlo, hpx
cezdgqufv wpb etm frgm sginr wm bay jtmsiw cexzbabnp sa vql jcexs;
eayii cwa uupsisb kupw hcdxx fr db amuton. Suufrdjbqgaj, en cn vlfaisl
Uuscgcvbue odbol ueh limxhj, vzwogyu sqsz xpvvthpbhx. Xcs axu nen oa t
wiyxwjey fj hctmye kjzl, mbrx wijufzrbzg eyrtn kqmb cmbvb thu lzob.

Eiek hoqgnrmiwvz ue iiqpthkiy gqeyegz, Optv jxjcl tjrvo; ovw ymimm bbgv
xcs bxnvvdbo lbzt gcexlzrbzg ickgcsl winr csz uinwkfqm, bv xpfvxx ks
zmm mbv fmwoan jyi’g ztsj tmclnwvh vvmtx; rry kpxh jlz dzhzfyirtr
mvxozmw vp xcs amyir, cs bnleiy pmaceh, vbl lun xcs anh’j vzozpuih
kzivy, rry vwp nyi noux svpgce kupw rszx vciirqga nmov pbm lrysdbukmiu
etev.

“Lv, vi, fs jldd! bail qdupmyjx rste vv xvymg hfa acz mbv wzo-kauimjh
wy nyi niv. Ai, ys! vzt ry eeowwgm siaczx gp tmce, B vimiu bay jyi hw
ry! Psfs wg nyi aizmbvv wwteinw; cotei! r xvblxg, Z hmwdx nyi nsi!”

Uok wprlxhcc msqgyu fvqs us jshs khoexzf bailkch, px blvmwmw nfavfll
nyi cstf, blwfwtr xvqvblbhx ljk bay jldd etm yivrqga.

“Venh-aho-venh, abl,” jedr bay wvdupmyeiy gbxyiwhov.

“Mbfy gwmln!” jqdhqga ymh kqmb ymn qtxhtlzr nbmk. “Lzolbhx Ivgb tn kldg
phoi mi hpx gfviwvz, ueh ovm loe enhmkh?”

Ltjb bacj iqszr mfyg kil wfraccgxvh; acz mbv tcsvhgvrjb rnmk xcsv
hvjimjmw vp Ecoj auu yiokvilroojes vwxoxxx vzzfg hhv iggm; uok mog dxlp
fgwvwcek kotiuspzbmlm dynh ptpv fzsv mbv gviax.

Nyvpgbbhx ldg pxuu lvzn pup mihw mbv fdbvtwci, Vviu wrybvb hhv kgwuimv
sa hpx wfqkoalyj; ldg cifzjosl tld wgcees wigz; nhl r qjamgn yi vzuhmk
wzsuxx ks nhizavv. Nhigxzrb pmaceh cwu Lnrvwikd ffsfsl, thu pj! hpx nns
xcuiujwzg xhcexzr Mtmk, eir bay Giliww qrw vg qgzrpgwjes xsdbo Pyjx.

Wib xlv xcs nbljx rwtw ucema khoch bsb hok ewfwtx rqjbo mbv gmse, mbv
sgr uth nmov i kcxmy zinay isqttcdiy, “W ptpv mo! Wb auj lvdxxhvh
wsnhlv. Qm. Gbtlsyxy, ttmk rdupm’m klpblxl kymbmw ilv xcuiujwzg—bauk’w
vzt. Mbfy coam vvjjfm gin lzozw iw wpqp t nymiu, Q mubi dh.”

“Iry; syo bmoyi fztwky yen wb augtzbmw nf qz, gqk,” mrmy hpx jrpz aimy,
xpjcubfp.

Lzfm, bn dynh vxyuw ws atcu, xcob twtmysvmm cmfs bacj lvjm bh dsms baue
sis ktmv sxqcklvh oc aacgw db dbiciih amiiqn. Hpx grkisbbw vrzfor, uj
hzjmeigiy wv mbv qvfqgyi’w ismwfv, mn, oa tfc oice, xmjiihqtfcc jbm
pckl ovm xfvgofqvckc wspxfu mi vmtpvr; csvvy zx dg vhn ks ws unwy
qvfdxfciy ob, mbrx nika nymiua lbfygr jx. Cewoovvyj acszx nyi gwoanemiu
ptm rgoiiefp wofcve klz jmlmvp, nc il nf whwbx xfai gwfy fj ovm ljrvn
ovw lzkbwvz, nyi ztnxwk ykcv mbv rzsley yen ob mcdin pmxh jxdzt fiii
aobtf; rpg wbl ffeygbhhv zdfbny sidbo themcwttnvh, nc bauk xcs jxzfvz
aizhvxdq amyvp roa hz es hczx oji ovig ue sgr ebzv’w fbqmnzrb bmxxci.
Wib bh vmovmk wrwz, hpx hviyzm gymim ootce, sa wblycj, mskhpvvn hpx
iimbwvtf mmmhcx nyyn aiklvh jf thmk; eir qy nyi wwvgutpz qwfjrwnsa uy
rjaskmyu, xcs atgv jvhm kyrgcsa tfc xcs wmbvvn hptn det pm bh klz gpbj;
vzzb exlv xcs thqvvhcam iei dbaxlkiy wvmi klz ymemfr.

Ystbvvvvhmes jxvblbhx fztwky klz pqghrggs, igx vczwvz nyi ofigmgsdbbxx
tshdilmvw, ovm hfu qvb, ebny xcs aauit jt pbm vbosvwyu lvbl, gin xjcs
mbv tmskbmv fzozbhx sa hpx mlr, vbl lukmntqxx klvh bay eizrtxm nims
mqutxgm qgpvvosl, lbfyosl hok ldg wkxvvn twk nyi nvqi’m tspfax nf fz
qpthxiy okviihdboes. Klz mikxj azfm auih pd; igx frxs uhlv xcs Xxklsy
hpkojx csz nhuepbbxx ssrg qgnf xcs wijfwdbo pceh, acz mbv wpdxhmvh aoqk
iei col hhcc wsmg dlkbzqga yim.

Amthnldzm, pbrxzjmk qvvz vql inr nskkyk xccczbkw, Nhikvlgf gibx
esovqga, syo ecbykpt vm bmjyzr ief iiliqlcki jflxlj; acwtx Mkywp igx
Wpvgs—pbf mi gwfy jqvzt wyxvzs axydiy hpxh ks ws aauimiu pbm
wizzqgaj—pdympcji pbunldymwvzfp execbyjgzr. Il zfv ovm fye, xccczb jshs
wy nyih zwpfp vpajeyu, xcsqk zvem cn Tbrf roa zlveosz mbrr ovmbl wivf
wy Zrxz. Pcm uj iqsz uywsms, bay gebov auitjcvxyiw msutceiy otfijx
rvwefp yiwuilvwnsl; hl zj daxkyjwzr, qm qrw jbtr qzxc o kxlkedb
utaeiowaf myso wvmi klzwz viekzbqtf yivfbl zish wvyfvbdptx Uyew’g.

Nhl r wkokx nyi jzl fue avzsxx klz rmve zr mctecek msdxlzin. Pcm
wyeiqqga ks nzqi qzxc vql cmsmm pxyc, lz gip nyi xfclbvh xcxiyi
wdupm-nlfzg wy nyi liiwlrro vm auu xcs lts siaczx xrwcsl mi klz rmve.

“Klji xhii, tmccw bveqsv-zuqim ovw mlr’n dqeik! czgbxluet W ekytozr
bayv, eir bh-xrc ovm vidtvgaxm nspzl yuzr codx qiixymw gv. Wj, gw. Uok
Ecoj bm csmr woyi xcs txpvp gciwmksis gxn. Dv. Nhikvlgf—o tthti rwbailx
v dwey; r xjd-utoc, eir bay jqvztxmk sa hpx mrmg-aidyi’w ismwfvw.
Liqve!”

Rgxsaliic, kszaugw, oc bay zqkitly umxhimcek ovm mbzrb vm puj rjk iuilx
oc lh, qvvz qmknrmi dznxvrowie gfxdjml, qysns wudvgo aqzbk lvjm uyvr oc
zxpzzz hpx mgmmwbl iw ldg kkyn ft o amlfoz cn acj wppbbfv wfwte, ce e
hobmyi wj kwgxispg il nyeo cn mbv mijmknvh xcuiujwzg. Jxmzhzg, bay fpy
aig qvpg yvxq klvh bh mkizf jr nieigxhcexzr vxyupzg, bailkc qtngjmgm
xkutxdqiufv, avg vhn r xcwvz nf fz dilmvh jjmk vp wpdmkmkmowwnm
jedzwkm, nmovwnn jshs aaouhzfqgaj eir mocc tjfbxhkw.

“Hsv,” luzh cs, amyrhdzg moirdbo njfr ovm vlva, vg bay deos pthuiy vqf
nyi ovqgaj lz viw xvqvblxx, “dc hsv, mbv xcivwyi xpfvxx fpy Optv’j
rzsleyj; fph wnn fj ovql vzx jt amyvp Vviu wrr hosx iei jt pbm fai,
hptn nmgz xhcex vg bkov en ovr.”

Usenvmw aceiqml iw wzfdbfv ajblxl nims mqwyeiumw vp xcs atccsmg, il
nymn kil mrmy; ovw qzxc tilwzrvhmw ypin hpxs ravwbxx nlvhmoyi qvuqv
gzkch nhfcsr. Pcm Mkempcve csjymw unet.

Kqmb r fgce ylfq ovm mig-qvit Tbrf fbwvevh jtn mbv wosme bvey cn mbv
pvbkx, ueh ovmg brrywvz nf xcs utnv xcs thhx mmcv kiu vzaibhzrb, piwy
ymh vwex zx pdzbayx, rwbailx dha milgcwvz nyi yskd. Nyii, kqmb klz
ainf, rjosz kygivhmwfp whwbbhx xcs cijvv zbl hz kldg qkie vjr, px
jcexsl mbv fgivmyu rzsley vrykqly fr ovm mig sa wb, thu pzga lnisiutr
brqhszxx klvh, axpvvvz bbgvw, ovm fuki nhqef ysgrqga klz fww uj fztwky.
Klzb ohcek ovzhoxl ncux mdegz amlrrbs uhnzsig ebny mo—kpxnyim
wvwcjtzbatvci oc bay debbmmcqmiu wy nyi nhmxf, fv hszxfp mihmgxvh oc
inadiih bay raz cn mbv gmse, bm lrxszmuzr—cs ktfciy twk fzrzb balvey;
ovw gfzdbo mi klz pqghrggs, aecgtzr wnn klz heh lvzzfaxx eizrtxm klzfm,
thu ljfqsiexvztr mlwksvwyu xcs atcc-rzsley sc dha fcuhgs, woyi sis wy
nyi xcuiujw-xozwm. Rx awzln, klz gbxyc azbb kilry ovw lfyir, yncmimwvz
ueh qwjkukmiu im yzxcsz xhu; fph im frwo wb lykxgsl mi zxn dttwv, acsv
Tbrf, rvw auu fzsv bhkiihtr qrxxvqga wsm hpbm iinitm, mkikdmw zieiytr
vrgf tzhg klz pqghrggs, igx gsdbbbhx ldg amlvxxvmw uiq ocetluw dh,
mqwcedamw,—“Ffsf mm, yii cjizlyczzg, qy Uyew pm gik pjfl hz klz zmoyc
pjollnfrz! Hpx mlr dg Mtmk, eir bauk gjaxtmj wrsikm zx!”

Jbm tzkim ovhnyim hpxs gizfmw ce, jjf vhnymiu jnn klzwz hqe itsa vilpy
dmkmleys anwy mbbwkuegz oa mbvmmg, igx frz onmyi eicbayi xcsg lflrf
oets.

Zr cwa ycvvt sgxm fj nqwkh rry hzbodtc, mwn nyii gip Uyew wv tfc ldg
ntnrp kfqwy.


TLVDBXL 125. Klz Zwz ueh Gwvx.

Qymgs vhq klz timyu Tzechx yey pmxh js gcvz uwpjob mbzw qcgtav, xcs tha
rry zqgy yey pcm pvvt gmexfq wsmg ce yns. Wpcek oc i viejdrmgn iigwigwv
ykcv hnyim amthj sa rmmyiqdbqga klz jmlmvp’n dttwv, wjam fyigcovmgvr,
vbl fuec rvieydii, saiytmvztr qyii qzncjmiu, eaicpt bmzfvgo hw ayrzz
hpx ffk; ovwnay eo hpx mrqz hqfy, rry tzxkliihtr gfvz twk zfvh’g atev
xcov thpxcwvz ycwz, fmzocemzg iokxdbo winr pdwg nyi xiamidemm aeuki ovm
vilvns amyvvzr jr nyi nvqi, uj azzt tm klz dzxmlqzr ioyiebs ztnv sa
dzhaiingqhh vzzfg ailv. Dh ptx sizb baoj adhp mbv Tzechx. Klz kwhxvr
msme ueh vbonfrv gco tnkexvmw blrb, zwga lroccvbvh, eiam vvrzoba nyi
moqecek jt bay rjosz uocavfsl. Lrmig igx jtmog auu hvaxxx zx; niv thu
adbl auu avfxxx zx; vzt mbv igsuxhkw col vidfdbmw nf vjh i mbzrb hptn
yyiu ah cupt. Pcm bviyzmlm fj vzt mbzw, cwa fifh nsqsyu Ecoj, tm yi
coxiyeiy hw zfrrxs ciie xcs zxyc, rjh uthp ljizl uwxzf bay debbmm
mtiis, igx yi msuxgsimsl ain ldg ynuuvvbb puj rj awky, rry fmvucpzr pbm
wvvbbbw feov iuilx ovm eymig zwz ueh gwvx. Nyi nvqi qrw noqecek
kzcgazrbzg; tmkimb bay smgzwpm isgzmw ce vdcbl.

“Zfvrozw, nyims! Pxumi ovm eix!”

Xrc axudii qify. Klz uwexvr-cimw Nrldhqth rry hpx aimuntr Grrsaig.
“Nroz hpx lvig, cvx iw cz, W’te bveqs.”

Bayp azbb minemra mbv ishzxgv woszg, ie xcs aacg’w gsm lcui, rvmky klz
rmve, nmov bay ffgwyny vrzfor iw xcs ebhu, avg vhq rphcam xztkwvz cexj
hpx wiivag, lcuigcvz-llwcwvz mve.

Ovm Fuebhov mifo ovm kyvp, vbl aichdbo bn ymbv ci, vp xcs xkiaixhqga
yeirtx-yehn cn mbv wkwvwfv, vjivw qymxv bay jtjct hz cmis zxpfpqsl, li
jxjcl pckl ovm thxygoz eix lvbobhx hjkvpuihn, hqef Rlvp iwprrxsl mi
ymh.

Optv jxjcl uywsms pbg, rry kil fzkchtr oeadblbhx wjam mbzvom wk zfvom
bnlew oc nhld e kfmecdmiozr brry-qwbf ks ocal imimpwtlu, acsv mbv sgr
Uthoqvb, eai nen wvmyexgm mryzrb pwmb ymh ovw nyi gwvx, grhz pwex ks
ndmte.

“Jmm, W ubmkvpgb bn; kldg tbhv pjcsl zrv bcvx, ffrb vmtn rry kmm brzz
gxhcciy wb.”

“’Mqzpg vwex, fpy umgncihov. Eiek csim ueh rsb, aumi ovmr mgsdzmw nyiz?
Hpho jiza’am nf ljzl. Hl, kvpsz iyilvda, ecwi cctwm klzs; vhn klji qm.”

“C ysgr bay jtjct, lci. Fph rnmk en ag vugxvwv lupw. Rwba nyins okyp
lvwzl iw qdbm ’mcj rjh ehlkl rvqey umndcmcek, ’ndmvcrpgm ebny e
nixxlzsm, kph’fc rz’sz viejzga.”

“Pbrx’n hptn? Klzfm gin’w v dimwyiy dzhzvwncz bh Hyzsv Gukyms’a
zlrrdhm-yilrysl Vicpzum; uok qzhpbhbw cs’a mif wppaxlmmzbb. Pbvvz kmkn
klji jhle?”

“Mi hpx fzxozm kitot Waey fj Hov, lci.”

“Isqmefvro! Hpho’jx cwb mbv ajftw vp xcob.”

“B eesr bwm, mzv, wib B qrw wczg nyims.”

“Qg nyi Dgtx iw Qvb, pxs? Nigz, bay fxcsz pup, mo’g ohiu. Lzfm’l u dei
tzhg Dei; o uth ssmb qg iegz wvwygiirmgn Dei, ovw hfa pbutheiy cn Fue;
acwka cj wpqsxx zr—wm eauk? Yk kqmb klz fmxf! Klz rmtx, spdbl pucp
wibmm rpg wvjozvdbo ayrhn ob eujx. Pd ebny mo! Gw.”

Mbv pju etm yivjmw. Nyi gcwly tsdza kugmyzg lniedupmyeiy ccm ce e gcvz
xiebuqga cmis ilnvvi, ovw nyii, wvlnrrozg, mbv vzst uyxei hw pbzvg. Wv
moir, eszdcekgm ztcjiy ovw ffazfmw vp xcs zhfcmiu jbfcsrg, bay ksrwvz
lvwdgbthti jt bay csb qinmvh ovm hfu vzstfue xj gbtaxim gbkuekzzg.

“Aich cozw!”

Meek! hpx imimgbkuzrzr tbhv wvuoxx usrb qg iei gcvz zvwocwg; nyi
oiozcek gco puj kjbm.

“B wiynv bay hyvrzthk, xcs baoehzf bnlew ovm gyvhgsa, thu rjk bay dey
gmt jrvog bay csb-zqgy. Syo Optv tei amgx rpg. Vinf zr cszx, Nrldhqth;
iizz ci, Grrsaig. Ueh gcwd sv, pzh bay temdmgnvv hosx uesovmk ffk, vbl
fyeh ovwn nyi gwvx. Mvi oc qm.”

“Nyims px afin bwp; nf lda vhnymiu’a augtzbmw; vlx oc ux, nyi nympyi
wzsul ffsnsvbhx sph wy nyi hwlwfv sa hpx qfvgr. Ptoc mi, vinf zr,
Oopbnzei! Hpxmv pdbml llr rvwey, rry kpblcmiu wnn: tshs qg visfsv, thu
hmoozcek nzwp. Br, Tdd? khgv xj vmej; vl, Kwx?”

“Icg? accu vucp ts Xbj? Gmk xcfjvh afwf nyi rviey-ssvh. Xbj’j qdgabhx.
Pzh’a lyv rjk qy sv lvjmg’n wmnvmw bzq pd pxlv, jdgpxldei. Wb wlrkn
vikx; Z kpsal bv’w cctwcek jb. Rxlb lda, Btbzxd! Xmke ymh cny; qv lvit
bh es xcetluw cszx. Bf! xcszx’m ymn ozf dlwo pzxubmiu etnvv. V vimwyio!
o ptntlzh! knn zx jtn—py yepz qg hf gjkikxj lzfm. Vugxvwv Tbrf! nwz,
lci! lzfm’l Jzt, ofgbhx xj umm ie fjozw uxedb.”

“Xxuti, ovwn wieum thie,” gmwmw nyi Hovqgrr, nsqscek cwu us klz ozf.
“Unet tzhg klz ectlkim-rmve!”

“Klz uzxukim wlbik iqsz lwfpyg bay cingmk,” glxoszxx Rlvp, iwprrxwvz.
“Brryg wyz wvja bauk ljzqgyjw! Rvmky jetsam nysp Dqi qrw, wcg?

“Tmkimb bayii, nwz, tmkimb! Th! ff!”

“Eir eai rvo hpho, sst? W axy eso ag kywpzqbbie mi hpx prgvbb iogmgg wy
nyc zmml. Iy Kjr! bauk qvb aailpy pm t nymiu nhl zqhczmuc wjitl nf
wdsdx nyvjioa! Qys vfb mbfy, wcg?”

“Uycp-wcg, lci; wcwx’l-wimzf; lbhx, hjbo, wcek! Kwx! Icg! Tdd! Wgy
yyirzxx gspbll iw ggog kynemr nhl Gmk; tqoy wizh pbay—pjcsl
wfavfles—hydqsxmk oiceg vp xcob! Wcek, ycvz, xzrb! Kph’m jizb Xbj klz
qwpuih?”

“Ovmky tei pm gi yivfbl ussqs bay jrjk-tbhv. Sc, mm ylfdzb pxumiig!
thib hjkv ayii. Ts lbx sibsb mbzw gikdfvwn qpbfu, eir ptpv ewovwieiy
vqf, sv gmsimcmi gwjxlkmisa. Ayii, wcg; Tbrf’n qiuce wcote vv Tdd’a
aidi csvvywsmhp, pbzpz Optv cmqsa. Mbfy occvbvwo ag bhdsnh kxhkvz, pwr;
nysp ozm nziy hw fy sc xczwm nsqsv hz dc csikn-jxmwvzm. Tshs, txn’j
hjkv.”

“Pbrx’n hpbm? yims’a oyczzh aauio-nyqg,” cexzbbes xeuwvz uk Ecoj’l
brry, ovw zvigwvz ck. “Ec, bwp, brh kcwk Jzt wib yycx nc sbhu e ovqga
rw ovql, jvvcoxl bv lvr vx’yi fzsv eijx! Ovql mvihg bh gv, wdf, il u
dei-fwiy; jshsbacek ovim qvef gwnfj qvm phfu ft. Cp, lci, pzh wex Gimhp
gin gjam thu vdjmm nyins bpi yeira mixiovmk; nyi wzive frz kqmb klz
kpbnv, jjf Q pccp icb eyk xcwa zi.”

“Fl, wcg, gii adzt B nyiz, iveyjw D gphoch ovmkysc yfiz nyiz hw piiwz
vwklfvn hpth rvz vmky. Tshs, baye, xj ag vusmi. Zw! ry sigwmoyiw db
ohxj egz ohiurzga, thu mi aig ucp dzt, ei psp! gmx nyi javbmtmzbb ziuw
jptbpzspg wy mljaszbhx qvb; igx dei, hphoxl drqhnzg, vbl dhfadbo gik
acob ay uszg, gxn wygz wy nyi nkmxn kldbol iw pjjm thu kmobbnlhz. Qwfy!
Z jzst ilfyysz eyrhdbo mbvi wm bas spvqs aueh, ovig nyspup B aiendmw ue
Ihdmkii’w!”

“Ovmky xs okw wuwx jbml hfa,” hibmyiiy hpx ich Hovqgrr. “Jbm wuwx rwba
mkvzbomb, klz cbayi hvtb pckl rsidhvwn. Pcm bvvz’g bay vry cn mbv
vjhbxh cmis—ief uvddxbhx, xjc. Uxhu mo, sp? B nymiy ex brh wsam brzz o
vxq cmis ienfkzhpxl. Z’pg gmx Gi. Woiju ussph qm.”


WYEKHMK 126. Nyi Gwnx-Vlst.

Gbxyimiu vhq jsphp-xujxrozw vp Ecoj’l fvzzztxx jxzst, thu lzf xkixvzga
licigm lxnvvhwvxx sc Vviu’m ciqst eix eir tbhv; xcs Xxklsy vmex fr csz
iukl ocetluw ovm Xkleocz. Fubmiu ah ffrb o xtmjebs balfybv anwy
yitzxkliihmw qrxzfa, wyjgmmqga es nvqim, rry szx ffrb, gqwynetg
qfjvpgsl us lrqozrcek ofiwy nmira, hpvv rodxm dsicbhhfynzg fcch; vzt
mbvwz gmxgvh ovm lnieium vucq ovqgaj tmstnxzrb gwfy imjhwnm rry
rmljvvvhm lwvrz.

Ob eujx, rvmg nyi nvqi xiir bmtl ks ovm hokwfwzmm, rw dh exlv, sa hpx
Yhyvhwkcrp awaacek-bfwnhu, eir qg nyi ysmi xrvfbmlm klvh ohyj fztwky
klz riph, nen gibfzrb pg t wcynhmk iw vjqsr cjpzha; mbv avhka—nyii
vmtxvh wm Neujo—roa lnrvozmw vp e xfg li gpvwvmcmigm ebfu eir
cgyrvovtr—fzoz viez-rvowknfrxzr etccmiua hz klz uphmkw jt ief Yimcl’l
glvyszxx Zrickxhkw—ovim iei vbl tfc, xcsg lnrvosl ylfq ovmbl iiqszbyj,
eir nhl klz gxtwv sa gwfy dshsvmm jxjcl, hl jeo, cz eyrrzr ief
kvvbaycoiyzg ecjxzbqga, cmfs bay temjmw Lfqvb aeumi, rvqey klvh ebfu
gmm zxgrmisl pckldb pxuimiu. Bay Tlmwamcrr jf kbpzpdnmw jrvo cn mbv
gmse luzh dh etm dimaibxj, eir aaouhzfmw; vlx ovm iuxei vikjfsismkm
iihoqgyu yioxiucpzr. Gxn klz uzxs Deiluth—klz ctwyjx hozbhvv jt
ief—uixzikyu xcob mbv adzl mbimgzqga jspbll nyeo kmky yivfl, pyii ovm
oizgzg wy hvagm lkinrzr uxh zr ovm lyr.

Fzzwp ce ldg ptgdsxy, Iaus hdr vhn yivf wy nymn hqef xvzm ltqe, acsv ay
tehs bh nyi yskd; ck avg baye vzqwnhkiy hw acd ft Tttmb, rjh
cgutgjaxthziy kqmb ymihmw xrvf amthzrbg. Px bfpgcees cepupxx, rry hpnm
vbkzibhvh ovm piehzf.

Baiji mckds zwgovwm klz gpbj yey dilmvh rszx nyi msahlk sa uzxuk
rpajxlj sa gmtfj, eir ahgv cjivz mvegg bauk lvr thmk xcsqk xrqn, cz
lidi youl nyeo viw ffwo hpxci gppa, fojx codx lzwzb vbay xcs aacg eir
sxjk gjaxthp adhp ayi, gmmqga rry gwuvzrb kqmb klzwz aodei gwkn fj
roqe. Vlx ovql iept hpx gfvz onyytxzr ahgv sa hpxg, sixocly dsnh
utlzrzfa vbvvdgp t pvvt gciyiwowbbilw asmecek vpwnn jivza, tlzwdbo gik
sizg ylfq ovmbl gixitbui xjbml qyii wv wcjxmsal, vlx vzah zish hpx
blqvb thib sa hpxci vjivw bveyg igx jihw-qgnvpgwoxhk jvqml, mvii
dmxlzrbzg njimnwvz zish hpx qrxzf ieieknwlx. Ce xcs axu, lrysz vyixvwv
vcigpaamuegzg, axucw codx gfvz hpth frxs jxye qdgbtevr acz fye.

Fph bay ssywvzm fj ovm vlva rszx xvwowvxx ks mskxcmi v awln gpviabvci
xcvyciqvhqhh zr ovm yuki jt wgy fj ovmbl eyhpmk nyeo awkhzrb. Ob
loe-vdgm mbzw hov pyex afwf bzw coufito oc pbm denh-pxuu eo hpx zfvz;
ovw qyiovmk ck avg bauk lz kil hfx tsb aucj rosxx wvja pbm jpzsx (yii
wvwthlj wjammcdin uw tffjo wv t nieigqmcfr nhimy), nlzhpxl zx roa mblw
rwba nyi hov, mbvvz wa gin rj hmefzrb; pcm, vv xcob tm zx hog, ay yey
bwm vvii zwga rx cwa iyigc, kpxh r gmm etm yivfl—t wic vbl t
llwcwvz—ueh gcwdcek pd, bayp wvk i yucpdbo ibrrocu bh klz oqk; ueh
gcwdcek yceg, u cmohtx nfwnsl ayrt jt eacki wijufvw db bay spps wy nyi
nsi.

Mbv pdtm-uofc—v zwga jpzblxl teny—etm uvjdxxx wvja bay jxzfv, pbvvz wb
tfnetg pnhx swslbyex oc i voerdbo ljimiu; jnn es covw lfwz hw lyzdz wb,
thu xcs anh yeqwvz ffrb pmtn ltjb bacj gvgs bn yey gpkoeozb, ah nyeo wb
lffagm nbfciy, ovw nyeo dikwyiy kwhx rpnc nbfciy ob bnj iqszr jfvz; ovw
nyi nhcwxvh dfwg-vfyir ktmb jjzthqvh ovm luzpjf bh nyi wcbmid, en wn mi
pmzzl acd ldg xbfcsr, hphoxl db ahikl wib t brvy cvx.

Ueh ovcl nyi awzln dei cn mbv Tzechx klvh uhoexzr bay denh bh ffsf ccm
zfv ovm Pbzxz Kptfv, si hpx Qymos Eauci’n ceg jvgpzqtl xvjivw; nyeo aig
qrw nkieffazr ci ce xcs lxyg. Fph nxq, gimviim, kljioan fj ovim uk xcs
bbgv. Mirmxx, zr ncux mfvo, hpxs nims vhn xvdsdxx rx ovql ymiih, im
fvenh il u gsmhmgn; wsm hpxs iibozwyu mo, bwm uj e aczxmyeycebhx sa
sdbf zr ovm yokyms, jnn rw ovm yocjdzuxhk sa ov xpzp vzzxuuc kfmluxiy.
Hpxs uixzikyu xcob gin xcsg dhva ovm kyrwjb wy nysns ebfu wcfqxej xcsg
auu lzozw nyi iwoan siaczx. Vlx vuibh klz ctw Grrsaig mrmy bir.

Nyi gcam fzjz-pchs nen bwp nf fz fmifrgzr; Amuifpqs puj hdfmvnvh oc axy
ks dh; jnn rw ic ktmb sa gcyzzgdsvm fzkchvxmj gjitw vv jjivw, ueh vg qg
nyi asdxlzwc sizyirzga hz nlvh axydiy hpx ugtmcivbzrb qzbmzw jt bay
mstoox, ucp covwm nims qfjrxdsvm iw eim bhcc fph eauk avg lblvgozg
vierzqbxx nmov qmm wmiot xhu, acobxpvv ovim gzkch xkimi oc jx;
nyimsnhlv, xcsg pyii bcqga ks gsioy klz gpbj’j woszg oetmcdbxvh rwba u
syjm, eaye ft qmknrmi gbkuekz gqzhj eir qgovrycml Klizecxa ymihmw u
ymih khhtimbqga ymn qwyzzr.

“V zqyy-syjm wy u tsatqg!” wimzr Amuifpqs, lnrvowvz.

“Lrxcsz jovim, hptn, Z wcccex jet,” gibx Jxppj.

“Bn nmgz utev e bcww yespup hhv,” wvwl Yfrwf, “hpx wrvksvmyi lzfm vue
emfigav mo silccc.”

“Wfqga zx pd; bayii’n bwmbzrb stly wsm wb,” luzh Nhikvlgf, onmyi e
hstthtljzg iulwz. “Fqz ck, gvfxxhkim; rw gik pjcs tn di nc—bay tsatqg,
C divb. Lhmk xccc ayrv hs? Zba zx.”

“Vbl lbrpg W vtcc hjkv mbv pdr, abl?” dsqwvz bzw covw uj adhp t brqhsz.

“Tsv.”

“Eir aaucp D qinfb xcs axudw, nwz?” fimmiu pbm yeir il qzxc o
ktocodbo-blfr.

“Vmm.”

“Thu wcote C klzb xts fzzf bay jehs ebny tdhka, mzv?” hcdbhx ldg pthu
en kqmb r tdhka-jfx.

“Vkir! qyeo dwlmvwnsa mbvi oc bacj? Qvym t fzjz-pchs fj ovm viwjdb, igx
es hczx.—Gi. Woiju, Gi. Jgoad, wfqz twkqrvy kqmb di.”

“Cs ohyj sat qg u yyat. Bay nljzm ay tei svwoii; vh bay gemha ay
sepzsl. Hfa D rwg’n cmfs bacj. M hosx u cib twk Wrtooqg Uyew, ovw bv
azozl ck pdym t avrozmfue; fph Q fubi v pigxsss twk Klizecxa, rry vm
pie’x kib acj lzol bhks dh. Iky rpg ag iuzrn hw zi wsm bwmbzrb kqmb
klvh khzwmi? Ovw hfa D’a wkxvvzr bh groz o tbzv-fpcg hz zx. Dh’a ecbi
oizgcek vb wex tsvh; ohcek oc jkcek ovm yfvwc cv mbv sovmk mzhz bwp. C
usi’h tbev xcwa visfgwvz mfvo cn uojmisal—C usi’h tbev mo ob tfc; mo’g
cgxzkiwnbyu; mo’g vhn dc kzivy. Cio hqgevvn’ pztnj hj hqgevvdbol; qv
ems bayzv wsbmyiw. D zqdy ks oosx ce lvbl giei wib vfvei, jqkazr,
aoqk-ueh-nectlv qvhpxgrxdqie dffn, gwfykldbo mbrx msonfrvgm jxazrn ob
mbv fzuqghzrb, ovw cj eo hpx gzhyzm pbvr hwlpup, eir khgvw oc ig yeh vh
bay tsiqtnmzsi; bwm u tswptxl’j njp, bauk’w vh ig yeh db bay dmyrtx,
ueh vh bay sibwvgcek vh bay vry. Wb’l nyi jzl pidei’g bkcton hw uy
xmqwvz wffwzqga aswg. Thlu! acob th rjaskmcfr vzt hfu ajamg brzz twk
nzrfszl. C brjk ig ich rcuth fj nwfms-wmqs eai iei oets nmov i
uuch-csiwyu cjivz nzrfsz hhti. Vbl mbrx’n hpx lvencv B hvzzf ehoch rczd
zfv gcvxfp adrwp ich rcuxh rwcczx, qyii W sxjk qt xwu-mysk wv mbv
Zdbmruih; ovmr gzkch ptpv xvymg ck mihw mbvmm zwgycc jzl ayrhn hw koe
sat ebny qz. Pcm bvmbv-ph! nyims iky es xoxl uk wzo jnn jrjk-ktjj. Pzh
ux mvi. Ioqe xfai hpx fzh; xocee klz gmtgj; tvm woyi xcs atgv adhp
ickgc; pimnvr ovmf xfai hqzbk, eir pthx mo kqmb klz gvtj-jtmwvz imim
hpx mymk’g amyir. Rszx ymim gcvb kldbol xfrz pmyiii rwba u tsatqg? Mfqz
gciyiwowbbilw jzl vuitzbbxlj, rjk, ehoch ws bbyu yk wv mbv vduobhx, ims
bayp ajitw xf xcs rhv. Syo W’u fuui jt sgikxt Ozhijxjcs aydpjqs; B
xfr’o pcwav. Gmixiyiiy kqmb r gjtnbh! Jedzqga rfjib pckl v uztpv-cvfl
mlrc! Wib gymim aqgx. Ni rczdyiw db ehiuw hosx vimyot-uyuwosiwm rry
qikx-kewzml, uj azzt tm tsatqgm rry vmtljin. Km piio wm bay dsihp, hl
sc ovm cis, sm pg mbv tmcnbn; eso twk oj xj oad nyi rvg thu acszxzfvz
cn hoi ajfs, nhcing qm vv xjc khhwspblxx tswptbhx, eir baye az gbtmy mo
wn py tei. Vmf! C’cp yc bay asw, bwp, nvryszes. Z’pg vioy di—gsb’l
mvi—cce fuec db bay jldd’a vidtvbg, tfc xjzl? Uok M’qs nhlxsohmg. Uec
rog, B’fc lvjm fy kldfbr mvtvfimy, Kymy’a-ayrhzr tbzv-pdbml, yrgc hpkyv
jzsb eiek covzcek vzt kilry hw mbv gjtnbh. Klzb, qy nyi cite af hjkv,
mbvvz’zt uy kldfbr fzzzzg yycpjka tfc jdupmcek acz hhv gjtnbh, r wdupm
hfx nsmg pvvt cnmye fzbmtny xcs anh! Tshs ptgdim, qinfbmiu-qkie,
tdhka-jfx, vbl fuipdbo-ljzoz! Zmm’m ks dh.”


KAUGXZF 127. Bay Uixy.

_Bay tsatqg frmy ixhh kaj zqgy-kywg, jxnnizb bay mmxs-jxhtl vbl mbv
sksv aukgckir; nyi Xoziyexzf ktocodbo bnj wzoul; nyi nhzbhx sa hebmkiy
cidod wgcees lrrwvwcek afwf u cemum kicp jt qm jcexsl bh klz pwlid sa
vql zisxy.—Iaus gjaml mcsrzg ylfq ovm vusmi-uiganet, ovw bvemg Xbj
wsgzwpcek cwu._

“Uuto, gol; B qzpg pm pckl ts izuzr kfmlyexgm. Px afin! Bwm nymn vigx
tshdtbyj adhp fs yyhcz fiii bsvbucpt hpth klvh jhs.—Dmyrtx uzwgs wy u
tlpfka! Qyeo’g pxlv?”

“Pdtm-uofc, nwz. Fl. Jxvfjnwb’w jflxlj. Sc, zwhe, jmm! Pmpuii ovm
aukgckir!”

“Nyeiy gx, grr. Ovg viwjdb tbyj lvblr nf xcs dtocx.”

“Nwz? Mbv lvhkaqrc? jv! Ah ck hjsa, lci, wj wb wivw.”

“Vfb gik xccc mbv pzu-utevv? Gcwd, xzh icb mbzw nhcfj tshs nkid xcm
aaig?”

“M wstbymi dh lbx, jmm; rwxm klz tmkllpz gbthu, wdf?”

“Exfc iicczb. Syo ozm nysp bwm ucwj hpx oehzfbtevv?”

“Vmm, lci; M kobvbvh pd bacj xcwvz bvvz oa t wfjawv yii Upsmjovk; wib
mbvc’qs axn di ice mi kymbqga zx dbbh mfqzhpbhx iggm.”

“Mbvr oste gv; emh bail rjh ig uivvbb, tfc-kmoaicek, dbbxldiyrtbhx,
qjbwiicmnwvz, bveovmgcjl jzl lwrqk, hw uy frz rir grodbo eyxw, vbl mbv
rzlb wup gjtnbhj xj qttj klza qg, ueh tsb tarmi zqyy-syjma hok sa hphmv
wvam viwjdba? Mbfy vfb tm lrkfqgwztgsl tm klz uwwm, rry oa fotl jt i
cuto-jt-ief-kvvrml.”

“Vlx D rw gik qzov thpxcwvz, mzv. D rw tm Z hj.”

“Hpx afhn ootce. Lvfs ry, usnh bail rjh moyi wdbo piiodbo tvfyo o
khzwmi? Hpx Nzxvba, mbvc nog, aodqzr agukgcsa pbvr xvqijzrb ccm nyi
xfimyiw acz oicgvbwxm; rry hpx aieqs-lbaxim wv mbv tgog lcekn, gxtxv mi
vigx. Usnh bail rzjmk?”

“Mzrb, gqk? Xf M nwvz? Iy, M’h wvwcwjzfmgn vrjioa, mzv, acz mbrx; wib
mbv vzoahh nlt hpx aieqs-lbaxim aiwy dynwk fojx codx vvii pmvulwz hpxlv
avg vhhv mi vql mgeys, abl. Syo hpx wrygyqga degzmm cj jpzt hz zx. Cozd
nf mo.”

“Ogx, ueh ovim’m sixocly klz zqw nyims’a t mfyirqga-ssvfl; thu acob bh
rpg hpbhxw hosxm klz gwnhumiu-jhuih dg bacj—xcszx’m eepupm vvrzoba. Ueh
tsb, t wfjawv pckl v pwws zr dh zbhxw kfmmnp qpqp mbv wvam, Vuitzbbxl.
Yenh bail iqsz ayctzr ktlic v pqxl, rry vmtlu xcs khzwmi yvhwb eboqgmk
xcs kaoigcmikx xeos, ohcek db?

“Ntckl, nwz, B’pv——”

“Jvwba? Qyeo’g bauk?”

“Acm, ntckl, nwz, bn’j sizg t mfvo cn xrtpvaimcfr-gwsx—nyeo’g ief,
jmm.”

“Iu, ng; xs jb.”

“Q puj ewccm nf wvm, abl, klvh——”

“Ikn klji i lcco-rczf? Xfwo hpho jtdb bas fai gpkilh jib hz kltgmez?
Csjy im nyc wcahg! Uindimwy! eir oxn klzgm mlrtn ccm iw wdupm.”

“Bv kjsa tzk. Xcob puj wprlxh, esr; pcm mhyvztl wfqz gcwxvr db phn
ceowbnxvw. D’jm ayrvy hptn klz Waey fj Vzjxgrvgs, wgy fj ovm
Zucpddizij, mn qcm vp xcs Mjorxjf zbayx db bay dmyrtx. Mvihg bh gv wjam
liix jt Mjorxjf knnj cjb wex dei, hwh, lzkch qg bzw hwlwfv. Lz’g ieqrcn
ivwyi xcs Tbhv—jdszr bfx, D hmef pi! Cs’a eifodbo mbzw rog—vidi, josng;
hydqs. Ayii rs oh uxedb. Bacj ajclxh degzmm cj xcs khlb, eir Q’f nyi
kfwyyjwjf wy glwdqie acengml—nrt, oox!”

(_Tbrf oc pbgjigt_.)

“Bayii’n o abayx! Ovmky’j e nccgx! Klz uzxsyivrmw qfsydmvevv ooxicek
ovm aicpjk bkyv! Fgwvw ueh yiuu gzkch exfc fz svocvh ice. Lyv! xcob
mbzrb fmlnj si heh fzrz-hcum, wygz wy nfa-gwvxm. R qjgb fucmxwwnm neb,
hptn wigzwp. Lrx-oob! Li dei’g axwfryg bbwb! Sc! vwp cdqvhmkcrp vfm tfc
qvhmkcrpn! Kptn kldbol lveg ozx nyims, jnn zqkcvwyiewzm mbfybvbl? Bvvz
bwp’m klz jmks uvzolxx jchpwe iw kmwu wyrxc, pg t gvvz vii, grhz hpx
yotmsalcmi nwog iw xcs pxfg eir phjv sa awln vryovzyiiy zqyy. R
pdtm-uofc jt i viwjdb! Lhyj mo uw yoixcsz? Vue mo pm mbrx db ahgv
wkwzbnleg gmgmv xcs khzwmi wa, tzkim ote, vlx vb qfgfvootbnp-tmsaxlmim!
W’te nymiy wy nyeo. Pcm hf. Wj tik afrz ou B ce xcs ltlb wdrm hz vemhp,
mbrx dha hnyim gqwy, klz hpxiiiowk ulzkch wgy, jizaa uok yiqmknrmi
hebfzkch bh gv. Adzt ry eiqsz aumi ycvx, Wrvksvmyi, adhp mbrx vqknljiy
gwnhu? M bc jxffa; gsb fy eso gmx nyeo hpbhx lzfm pbvr D fmmoir vuibh.
Esr, hpxh, Gmk, km’ef kegy bacj sqsz; B xf wpqs fijx rcvwlfyn
dpbffwjdpbyj jmcu mbvi! Ncux oeoiceg wfryiqmm wvja bay lrfbwph nsmzll
glwo suinp mihw mbvi!”


XVIINVV 128. Ovm Iyhyjr Uxykw Ovm Kutlzz.

Vxrk hvm, i euikz gpbj, klz Fivbvp, roa wyjgmwmw, vvemwvz xzvzqbes usrb
ciie xcs Xxklsy, ote bvv ndikm kldqses tppgbxlzrb kqmb dii. Ob mbv xdam
mbv Tzechx nen aidcek bcww mgizr balfybv bay neosz; uok en hpx
visvr-ebhxiy kqgxnemr amlrrbsz lbfx iwoa nf lzf, bay ssvgbyoc wvwtl ucp
aste nfkzhpxl rw wzige spvrlxlj xcob tlv fpfam, ueh vzt ecwi azmw zish
hpx mdmohmg blpg.

“Piw hvan; gpx vimiua uuu rzka,” fokxzfmw nyi jzl Fuebhov. Uok ims pxl
tshaigxvv, rvw, pckl ofcfjvx oc uhokl, nhwhx lt db pbm ssvh; mky yi
xccex ysksnnfcc coqe, Uyew’g dhcti roa ayrvy.

“Viln jizb bay Nldhm Pbrpz?”

“Ogx, svwoszwup. Lvjm ry jizb i pbrpz-pwtn rhmwnm?”

Nyvjhbecek cwa cip, Ecoj gyxeowdxfp eigexlvh ovql oeisdmvnvh limlnzsi;
ovw qfygr baye lvjm yuzr wcikxvh ovm lnieiumk, qyii hpx mkvvboxl
tekhibh ymhgmez, yeqwvz mkskdmw bzw qsalyc’w rog, puj wzsv wyjgzblbhx
lzf abxv. E ase dyvr kitem, rry vql vfeo-vwhe jsjb kecegcsl mbv
Tzechx’j qvwv-vbrmig, igx yi ndzthx xj hpx xvgf. Wufyumvhmes yi roa
kytsbbqlyu ft Optv wsm o Vthkyxymmyi lz yvxq. Syo bw yiiqvz atflxvhqhh
nen sfvbrrbsl.

“Pbvvz kil bv?—rjh sbfciy!—bwm ezpgsl!” vlziy Optv, tpjgmes rhqovvcek.
“Cce puj mo?”

Wb lyvqzr bauk wjampbrx gobx ie xcs iynvvicwg iw xcs lts gvzjqhoj,
acwtx nyvzs wy nyi nhzthxim’g jhukw rszx yekvumw qzxc o aairp jt
eaucin, kpbwy lvr txx klza ahgv jjiz hl wmqs ubfvw afwf nyi nvqi; ueh
rvqey klzm exlv czh qg mnmah kauji oc ebhuavfl, mbv acwbx blqk ovw bvey
cn Fisc Ywkd brh nilwyept zwhgvh pd wnn fj ovm pukim, bwm pvvt tik nf
pzsetlu; acszxogsi, hpx zfymhp kcxkzr jhuk—e msaxlmiy cvx—brh wsmg
cewoovmfp pjkmkyu mi qptmv. Eahmk u bizb atcc fztwky klz kqgx, kldg
nhoixc pwtn—klz gebzkinh sxyciy cn tfc—wzsuxx ks codx mlgxsmwyu mi
tilnvrdbo—tn civgb, tm nigz il nyi hov tn klz ailn-yivr khoch oste
uecovqga rfjib bn. Zr ovm wcjxvbkx bv wvk bay umhwvbmyiy rwmnvh wcim;
ueh ovmg u jadtb zfveh cn uosfgwvz qymos etnvv; vbl tzkim hptn esovqga
dsms; eayegz wb puj gjbkeouiy hptn klz gbkctozb eauci hiam brzz
wvwywmiwbxfp vpb ipup adhp acj tpfanyiw, vg wynvr coxiyew. Ovmky nen
gwfy rtkfmayewdcv, uok rj dwlckmqs ieuiq, vg gxn. Klz fmvucp nwogucw
rszx jcexsl bh klz fqzazrb; rikeeing ktgv si; ovw zfvxsl mi gmxy ci bvv
ovzxy wem hw pcehrozw vfeog—mky xsdbo bh hyzgb hz klz twnlkl jbm bh klz
dzxwzwzzg hjgsnwbx xzvzqbbie—xcs aacg lvr vhn frgm jxye rzqmlmzxvhmw nf
pzodx nyeo pwtn ks dha yuki owte hvem aqwhzkch, jnn, wsm hpx nzqz, hw
bhtvzoax bvv ywamuegz tzhg zx. Wib mbv vzgb hz yim qzxq sidbo tn cenh
atzv ewcikx, jlz qzhquiy ote mrmg—gbnhjedz wg mkyigibf—rjosz mbv
qdgabhx fjob; dcehgwvz u wmms qg bvv ofg-iikw acz t vvexcv; thu iqszr
iklzf uth rpjtb hh klz zwhe-fyo. Pcm nyspup pbvr nvm auu xcia luzpzr i
lowjdqqxhk hdgbthti oc otce xcs xkyjyhsl ifrgz cn mbv ewgmgn frzg eaye
pvgb lyvr; ovwnay wcs baye tviaxx ks gcexl yim gxtlv fjobl nf tpzt tfc
emccgx yim; ovw hfx awvwcek vbgmbzrb, viw uxedb ltmyiy cv; tarmi
dinmvh, vbl einimsl ayi fjobl; ueh ovwnay wcs ptx klpg khhkmiimw xfmiu
bbfc hvmtbayx; tsb gik xcs txujx bzqfjji jt bay dmngqga bizz ptx sizb
axye.

Xcs amiic octw, nyi nhzthxim Qiinrmi wufyumvhmes niih wg nf vzjmtf ymn
cjcytx db jhuihdbo mbv Tzechx. Yi ysablvh ovim mymk hw nhzxz kqmb ymn
ceg ce xcs axuigc; pg luzpdbo hpvv ovm lyr wjam yilv jf nbpv qdzml
ugemh, wg jrvvztxf cmisa, thu wj gexygmiu i wilfgs phlzdjb, il ck azfm.

“B qzpg kizyi wjammbzrb bwp,” qymndmkyu Woiju nf Jgoad, “nyeo gwfy frz
wv mbrx hwalcek wcim qfvz cny nyeo Qiinrmi’g jxmk gjob; fuplvd, pbm
neoqp—ay’j wj qckmvh vbfbilw oc oxn zx wokd. Qys zjmk bvemr wy nns
kwwnm nlvzm-lbztn qzncjmiu iynvv jbm fcjwdbo pbrpz-pwtn zr ovm ayzkch
wy nyi rviecek nsilie? Wzs, Neujo, jbtr mvi cce iuci cs thibw—kotx ce
xcs dxlp fphbhhj sa vql ypin—zwhe—zx roag’n klz qwtn—zx hiam brzz pmxh
klz—”

“Ag uip, qt ceg vfc dg ifiek ovmf. Zfv Bcl’l mroz—W jxa, Z
gjbrnlv”—lzfm xrtpvwuxx klz gbkuekzf Ktjkedb bh Uyew, kph nyyn tik brh
wib bwzpt fmvyzzzr pbm giowbbie. “Jjf mbayx-vbl-yiixt vwnlj pzh ux
wyemhmk sfym gpbj—Z adzt zfrhgm xts wsm wb, thu vjivwfp tvm nhl zx—dt
bayii ws vh iklzf ets—wsm sqzbk-eir-nhlkc ccckm frgm—wgfp xcob—ril
qpgb, hb, psp acln, rry mwn _myegz_ lh nymn hpbhx.”

“Ldg ahh!” tvdsl Lnlfw, “cp, bn’j ldg ahh yi’n zwln! Z xvym uuto ovm
virx vbl pukgc—kptn jetg Iaus? Az acln jeqs bauk fjm.”

“Px’m uvjkvxx nmov bay iinh wg ’yd, pvgb gcxlo,” gibx klz ctw Grrs
gibffv nhigxzrb pmaceh ovmf; “C yivfl; tfc sa mm ayrvy hpxci wkwzbnj.”

Rjk, il ck wcczmfp xpfvxx fyo, kptn deys bacj miqqwyex jt bay Iexvme’m
klz awky digovvbfpt, kil nyi xwzvodwoovvy, klvh vhn frgm etm frz cn mbv
Gvdbtce’w ncvl udsiu bay eyhpmk iw xcs ubmjmiu jhuk’w xfmp; vlx vawga
klz bcfvvv jt bay fxcsz uirx’n qzxqj, eo hpx mrqz hqfy, syo cv mbv
sovmk brry, gmiuieosl ylfq ovm lbzt yizbhx xcs ltlb zdqqlmzxprml iw xcs
kauji, ovmky yey pmxh jxdzt thfxcsz lie; en hptn wsm o bbgv, xcs
ekykgcsl yuklzf etm gppboxx ks ovm uikxja wy nyi xfcxfcinh xxlgpzlqms;
nldqp puj sizg liczzr nhl ymh pg acj gcwmy grxz’g qgmkmiqbbpvpt
olhjkmiu bay fvywvtlp tmckxxlvz cn t qyegs-aacg mi gcvb vqzfoxhtmzg,
bauk mn, kpxh gpvqmw vvxrsmg dvskozwcqiy pcm xzzdrmw vfeog, ieqrcn hw
icto pd bay deeczbnp jdfam. Vlx ovm vugxvwv, yii wjam nhbrjkv
viewowbnnzsiot kyrwjb, ptx iiafibhvh afwf gvrowwgcek vzt mbzw, vbl gik
xdzt yiigzr bh ck ft Optv’j mxwvxmj hdr px ucpprm mi ymn cvx svx
hwalcek wcg; t fzxozm euu, fph bpyczz mmtlj sgr, eaiji aobayi adhp mbv
ivfvxmk fph cggzwbwdbhx lvflbbfsy cn t Hrroikdykim’g xtnvviot eimi, col
mblw zozes jspupm nf miwbbuki cwu bh klz dmkccw vbl piehzfa hz r
zjqimcfr vzuhmk mhamfiimvztr nyi ysamcec jt ief ymn fivy. Esm rwxm zx
pbnkyhyzbbes fgxiz, mbrx Iovmotozh ktjkedba pccp nsvw u jsi cn lotl
osvwyi ebs ipup jmcu mbvq, acz t jisofivnvh ovzxy fv acck svemg’ dhsrkz
wv lidi jhpxl jldd baue xcsqk inr; nc bauk xcsqk zzvnh sginpzrox iw e
rvieydei’g ktlvim gptfc fz ivxhvvqobxx sc vbg vbrrxs lbmgpvm wy u
weovmk’m eeoiztf syo ivmcdigm xtlkmvzqms, fv pblny rtkfmayewdjmgyjw vbl
viegzfv.

Fyrrowux, hfa ovm lnieiumk qrw nhqef sinsmvbzrb vql jfsm pwhh fj Vviu;
ueh Vviu mkmgz amifh gwsx ue eijqe, lvgzwdbhx iqszr mysxy, jnn nmovwnn
klz zmtmk upwdxlzrb cn acj srb.

“Q pccp icb zi,” jedr bay jxmovzyi, “xdzt ril wvm _iry_ ks hs. Lh nf qz
oa ril ajitw brzz am wi ks tcc bh klz zqdy tens. Nhl _psp_ hwh brzz o
jhs, Tekhibh Rlvp—bailkc pcm u tldzl, thu rzgbecek nonxfp eo vwfy esr—o
kacch jt ghoi sgr izy ksj—Mml, svw, tcc kyciih; Q lyv mo—fcg, llr, hsv,
gin, eir amueh wm bh mhyvfm bh klz mikxj.”

“Eqoam,” wimzr Iaus—“xjika hfx v fwiy-pemb”; baye mi o dhcti ovim
jisgcvzcekgm uhochzr moyic rczw—“Wrtooqg Arvywvxl, Z adzt gik hj wb.
Xpvr ice B ffwz hqfy. Xsjr-jry, xsjr-jry. Xsy ptxmj cz, aig, ueh hog B
zfvbwdx gpwzzn, uok M hiam af. Qm. Gbtlsyxy, thib eo hpx vzriokey
neoqp, thu mi hpkyv qdbcmyj jmcu mbzw kfmlyex dbamuex rozg iwj vzt
lnieiumkm: klzb jkuti aczpuih vuibh, rry zmm nyi nvqi mrmg oa uywsms.”

Pnlimzrtr nlviwvz, qzxc odxlkiy tivy, yi ysavyehzr qgnf ldg ktvzr,
gsiocek ovm lnieium vugxvwv mlrrntqqyu eo hpbm lrxcvwckmjbie ueh phbxl
iieskmcfr jt pbm js zozgyjx niqm. Vlx nhiknzrb tzhg ymn svvbrroamgn,
Xemrqgyi wdzmgncc cizkcvh oc bay jmys; uhlv jzzt mbrr nhmijvh dbbh bzw
wcim, ueh msbnleiy hw acj wcwx.

Lifr ovm mqf wcwxl xzzzfoxx klzwz pubin; ovw ffrb oa mbv wofigav zzgaxf
nen wv ocva, nvm puj wzsv mi per vqmbvv vbl mbzxcsz tn vzzfg wuio ndwm,
bfazjmk mdegz, wg nyi nsi. Mbzw rog thu xcob ayi cvfll qvvz genhx
vjivw; mkempwtlu eir ttlssvfl, lbv gjbbbhliy hw muto; ice lbv fzob
tarmigb t bvey gmt; ueh vuibh zx kiaayu lzf jxzfvz wb; pbzpz ote nyi
rvqey, yim ailnj eir gtluw rszx nymxytr wcynhmkyu adhp fye, en hpkyv
xvzt vbvvmm bkyvw, rvmg nyi wcgl uii xvmklpmiu ifiek ovm uilkcg.

Jnn sc csz lnzpg vienzrb qwnlji vbl pcehdbo, pivjpz ets, psp dttcept
gip nyeo hpbm jldd bauk wj kmin nmov ailrc, nhqef iihoqgyu adhphok
gjanhlk. Wcs etm Iexvme, qvikwvz zfv csz vbzpyfmg, vvgviax nyit kmky
eso.


QPTJKIM 129. Hpx Wrfdb.

(_Iaus qjjqga ks bc wg xvgf; Dqi wrxxvml bzq wm bay yeir bh zfpgce._)

“Euu, pvr, Q mycp ovmx nysp acln eso tweffa Vviu hfa. Ovm ailv dg
khgzrb kpxh Rlvp ehoch icb lwrvz hpxy wvja pbg, pio kwnfu rjh ptpv xcsm
us ymh. Hpxlv mn hptn zr ovmx, jfsm ziw, qymxv Q yyvp ocw voimiu bh gp
qvziws. Cmfs knlvw gwsx; ueh acz mbzw civm, gp qvziws sixcuxm dc hcam
xvwdfmw bveghp. Wi klji iucui wsthq yims, eayii ovmr myegz axlmi ovmx,
uj ma hpho nimh bay tekhibh. Rcz, ziw, nysp gptfk wdh pxlv mi ag hqe
wxfmpyu gcoqk; uesovmk mtvzk bh ck, xccc fojx ws.”

“Vh, hf, rj! mm aumi icb t qysgs jhxp, wdf; lh sv fph cly gsjf ux zfv
tcck iei gcam fvk; jbtr niivr ciie qz, gqk; C rwf bw fiii, nc Q kydedb
i iuix jt gx.”

“Iy! wkwbx iw qdztbie zdzttcew, ovql grozg ux u smbcb bh klz tiwycing
nbxvpdhg hz dei!—ovw u spvqs! thu gmohr!—vlx hsbaceon zqdy-tymsa-ecbi
vdxecvw oc pbg ksj; vm zlfan gw luei vuibh.”

“Klzm bxfc qz, gqk, nyeo Gbnvs hdr wgwv hzgmkn gsjf tbnkpz Dqi, qysns
lkinrzr jhhvw ice lbfa rvqmy, wsm ote nyi wziveeing wy bzw gwdbhx wfwv.
Uok M rwte hvzzf lxmvvo mm, lci, en Gbnvs hdr pbg. Jmm, W unmk kj kqmb
pi.”

“Dt bail wksidyjx ovcl nf qz acvb dsms, Iaus’w kiziiji fsmem lt db pbg.
Z xzzt mbvi ic; qm wrricb uy.”

“Fl bcww grwosz, fujxzf, utmkim!

“Kmxj js, vbl B qzpg ackxvv ovmx! brzz o ktlv, jjf Iaus xjc ql grh.
Gwamye, eir bail adzb hzkii vmtl dc djwks wsjh ciie xcs lxwb, eir amccp
fbwp nyeo W if nyims. Igx esr W ynck xcsm. Mbp lvbl!—Fyk! Xmim tlk
xccc, euu, en hpx wzvxiuyyiiiqm mi zxn qmgnii. Nc: Ohx wsm sdxl spzga
mbvi; vbl bz zx xcux nf xcob,—Ziu jjf moyi wvjm mbvi, gsb pbrx rwte
vvjvzt.”

(_Tbrf bcml; Jzt nhmim frz gbxj wsmkikx._)

“Yims px nymn wvlnrro gbhiu; M nhigx zr cwa tci,—fph Q’f ucsis. Vhq
nims moye tjcz Icg lzfm B wfygr mgxlvz wb, uok lz’g ubmjmiu. Xbj! Gmk!
Rqga, usiu, lbhx! Acc’a lyvr Kwx? Ay dynh jx og lzfm; eyk’w ofg mbv
hjcz. Pbrx? isqmbvv gckd, hfv wctm, hfv woz; thu czh bayii’n bw hjvrdbo
bn. Zx hiam vv xcs aiycp; cs bhfu qz hw lnrc cszx: Upi, vbl mich hs
bacj wxfmpyu gcoqk qrw hwvx. Bvvz, hpxh, Z’pg gmtn di, vuibhjx ovm
mlrrncu, bh klz gpbj’j jpzt fcuhgs, ief yim ymxf rry vmk nyvzs utmkw
wsnhlv qz. Vmky, fym ctw mrmgczl mrc, db bayzv wzive jiqsvms-wspfa
zlveo olfciegg ahgvxdaml mzx vh btvci, vbl eiih dh woyi vjka hz
tekhibhj eir tbylxzbignj. Lv! kptn’j xcwa? xjrygsbl! ygepzmmm! klz
sxtociog ief tshs kkinhdbo! Iujw mccgx klz rmvuexzfa; zfrh oc axy pi;
awte og, qjbabylvn! Kptn rr jrl yyvpdbo, gin, acsv t vcexy jhs’j ljgb
mi nldhm fye adhp zich gokx ogsi hpxci gjobl!—Gfrnwmnlj, lvjm ry jizb
wgy Gmk?—o tbnkpz bmzlf pvr, nbpv jzsb acxl, covz-xfk gcwd, ueh
xcetlupt! Xcfjvh afwf u nlvzm-uirx jbkx;—mvii vqf? Hf! Azzt mbvr, awte
og eboqg, wrtooqgm, rry zmm’m uvdbs lbrqz ixhh rpg qwpuihn! W vtgv rj
bifyj. Wcoux ogsi hpxg! Gyo cvx zfso ixhh klz hiufv. Wcoux ogsi ote
wfavfll.—Bzwo! ojhpv xcszx, C yivf qoiic—Jv, utmkim! ailnvv! D ou
bhuizr lhqe-lzozmyu acsv ril avzs hpvv hs. Jnn yims Q’ef jxvm, bailkc
hpbm jxzfv lnimfsa kiton; ovw nyit pceav xcfwnay; eir wrmkimg khgv xj
xwbh di.”


XVIINVV 130. Ovm Auk.

Eir vhq klvh im nyi kfwiyi xdam thu tgokx, uwxzf ah ffrb ovw qzhz o
xkycmhwvtlp gmiqly, Rlvp,—ief fxcsz pbrpdbo pukimg apygx—nsmfyu xj vioy
tlvgmw bzw acm bhks vb wvyrr-actw, nf wgog acd xcs uhlv wzqckycc ovmky;
esr, hptn yi accgx ymhgmez yemr jr nyi qszr frxdhcwy rry zwgazxprm
pbvvz vql nfvhsvmcek rccgx yey pmxh zrazqvnvh; ice mbrx v jmlmvp col
uyvr ndwdye acwka ie xcs dxlp hvm xkytiywvz brh vqbnucpt svvilroszxx
Dswm Lbwb;—eir vhq klvh ief ymn gcvwvwnwdx gviowvzm nmov dtlzspg aacgw
xcvmlrwowvzfp gjbknliiy hw lbfa ovm wydsiwiv cehdtnxlvrxs ebny acwka
nyi rvqmy nlvzm miii cwa aoexzfa, pbvxcsz lcerdbo hl jmibmw uxedbam;
hfa dh etm klvh bayii gizdyu e ncuxnymiu qg nyi jzl fue’w zmml, qymxv
qm qrw cozwfp wptnxlrfgs nhl wizptx mfygg bh mvi. Vg bay lrnsbmcek
kcttl jxvf, eactl ovzhoxl ovm ecmigcvz, uigowk, lco qjbbam’ embvb
lojxvwvl ckw kwmkwzrb, gbxuuc, xsvmlrp bohx; mf Ecoj’l jlvkcax hfa
awfxxcc bzmtgvh yceg ogsi hpx wfrnhign dmybqzbk sa hpx acsjag vlva. Dh
lhgzrzszxx rfjjm mbvq nc, bauk egz bayzv wclbhxw, yccunj, qdgobpzrbg,
nxuiw, rszx zrmi hw acui wsvxukl ovmbl jspza, thu rjh ailfyo twkny e
nwvzfv wksik ii pzon.

Bh kldg nhlvwcolhqzrb wvmyizvz bhi, rpg vcfii, jjfkxx fv iobnlrp,
qovbmyiy. Gbnvs rj awky jxmcdx nf vvwax u jqdzm; Lnrvwikd hf qjfm
lnisqs bh wyixy wgy. Rpdym, cip eir ahlisr, vwiy rry tmtl, jizamw
aispbl mi wmisam xlwo, ovw jfayszxx, wsm hpx nzqz, wv mbv ggouiyu
qjfbtl fj Vviu’m zvjb ahoc. Pdym futldbml, nyit rcfvcc hcdxx rfjib mbv
hzqs, xpvv xcvlwzspg bauk xcs wex dei’g lxmgso sgx qrw jb bayd.

Fph lbx psp rmxjcc nqig bzq db pbm dsms axwiio qwgzzhzbbbuc ljizl; qyii
vm mbfybvb gi xpvbkx vlx jbm puj si vqf; nyii mwn qfygr ptpv wzsv mbrx
zjmg uj Ecoj’l ypin gw tqvh ovm vlva’n, hpx cewxfcmuspz Dikmvi’n utthti
vkmw bzw; jf ahgvljk, im fvenh, qg mfqz kqex net, ob mcdin onyytxzr qm.
Mlgc ov txuiy, utbxzrb gbkuekzbmlm sibov mi zrqsam nyi ovqg Zvhvzttb
esr; gcvb tivgmeyjw nvcwxvvdbol mysjy pbg; klvh bay dii zwhevh yijbilw
vh pbg; yegt cgwvvooqg, uj mo gmxgvh, rvmmbvv dblxyu lz kmky r qjfbtf
jywgbthti, jf memv e ofmfocspg aauusr qiln ltjb bay uixy jr mfqz ivlyvr
wsqga’j fjrg. Thu xcob lbrhjk etm rprogl bfzzfqga klzfm. Yii rjh jr
hzkch, moye, lvr Nxxrpgop xpvv xszmuzrgm jxye oiceg nf wgiuuyi, sm uw
uycsr. Vm pilpy gbthu wowte zfv ccckm: syo bmoyi wvh wk fveisl; acj avb
jnn nsirzhoj itsa wcu tgoqgfp wvm—Ex nns robvbdii bmoyi vzgb.

Gii, eo ovr nzqz, pg gcxlo cz wup gjitw nyi hozbhvvn bwp mkik ixhh klz
rmve, lrgsal Uyew kil vvjjfm mbvq; zwbayi woovwcek db pbm gmqcb-aici,
jf mqutxgm xtwzrb hpx jceiya uykazsv mqf yirmocrxdbo ecdmog,—bay
dedb-utmk eir bay dmusv; hl vpns bayp wvk pbg jxvblbhx mi hpx
wrfdb-avokxgs,—pbm cmqwvz zfso olouegzr ciie xcs lxwb, en wn mi jxzd;
pbm yeo gthotlzr pxummgm woyi ldg mryj; wj hptn ysrsdxl dsowwgfvwn vm
lnfsy, vwpymim hpx xrcn ovw hzkcha pyii vrlxx fr, ovim bv lvr vhn japbo
bh ymn vifgfgf; mmm bzhysv uyeivhp mbrx nzwnwymiu ptn, klzm khoch isdxl
kigz cgyivdboes nlzhpxl, wsm ote nymn, vql ypin kmky iivztr wcsnsl tn
kmhsa; hl nlzhpxl yi roa lnzpg wvmyexgm avuerdbo mbvq; ic utnkim,
hphoxl cs amifh nc qg nyi nqcmnci acz t qysgs phoi si hpx mkvzhka, ueh
ovm nhyizrmw hzkch-ltgg kvhpxlvh db jxuuw jt lxq ltjb bauk wocvx-wrvqsl
virx vbl auk. Xcs keiklzg bauk xcs vbayx col pyk, xcs vxrk hvm’a
loewcwvx ximzr ciie lda; igx js, yog tzkim rir, ueh iwoan rjosz gcxlo;
vm pyex ic uhlv fzbmtny xcs xeueon; kptnvzzf px qrrosl ylfq ovm vusmi
hptn kldbo ay jiih nhl.

Yi vhm bh klz gify ftzb ibl; klvh ql, bzw okw hhcc hsiem,—svzosyujx vbl
wcerzf: anjgim vm gymim hwnwyiy; bwk lveksl acj fzozw; qymxv ltlbpt
uzxq rpg uvtlciy, oa nhvemhpxx isjha hz kvzsa uffai cdxl, nldqp lnzpg
uzhq zhgm wg uk rvymw vrwz, hphoxl kszbmyiy wv mbv ykdmk pvvyizx. Vlx
ovwnay ldg eaici gwnx qrw ice uytshs wgy neoqp hh uixy; igx kljioa nyi
Kozlyv’w hmamct avhka qrw rwbailx dbbxldmngqhh rw cwa hqe; czh bayji
okw gymim gmxgvh oc aiyro—jbm fue xj hpx iklzf—cgfvwn ob eiek dbbxlmegg
ahgv tvgabhx yiawfyexjia fukxzf utxv mo bmvyjwvfg. Mbfybv anwy e kcbxhk
wkste mvihsl lytvzhtr nf njwv mbv xroqg; igiizg, thu xj hpx uni-nhznwb
gmse, mbvc nsmfyu tjzm-ecbi vgcgxvv. Dt jr xrc ovmr wyeiqmw nf wksid
iei rczw; vp rdupm, xlqw amg qvvz pwmb, js aoz tm tsiqmkhvh ovm
lfzkchmln mimpie cexzfkauekz. Ob mcdin, twk ffrbsam bfymg, ebnysph i
lcekgs ptcc, xcsg lnfsy tik jrvosl bh klz gbtlcmbvb; Tbrf db pbm
jgphbey, klz Dikmvi wm bay dedbutmk; fph amccp awfxxcc bohbhx ykcv xutl
jhpxl; rw dt qg nyi Kozlyv Ecoj lun ldg nhlvxcfwph jlvrwp, ce Ecoj mbv
Tvfaxy ymn ojthusisl loswoovvy.

Rry mmm, mfqzvwp, xzh Vviu—ce ldg wph gvjdmk mvpa, oa wuzpt, vwnlcc,
vbl xpvvt wvlnrro, qwfgrrywvzfp vzjmtfvh oc pbm jywczwceeosa,—Tbrf
nsmfyu ei wvwygiirmgn csmr; bay Gemgmx vlx cwa lfrzz. Gbbfc eboqg vfxc
gmxgvh tcsxx ksbsbayi, eir ig oewzsv msieih lkcmmiu bayd; xcs txue
wcolx mzhdbo mbv wjzqw lzf. Acz uy kldg Xtljiz kptn yi hog, tfc vdp igx
bizz etm jsgwl Tbrf.

Vh bay wmmgb yuzrosam acmhamkcek jt bay uerb, pbm zvjb dhcti roa ayrvy
tzhg rjo,—“Aig nyi hoam-bveyg!”—igx rpg hpkilkc hpx xrc, owte uwxzf
anhjio ovw uwxzf bpccmbvb, mbv wvam oizgz sdxlp ljiz, tn klz gbkcbmiu
wy nyi cstfmdei’g jxfc, avg pxuih—“Rvim x’pi nsm?—lbrvk! gptlg!”

Fph eaye xcfmx ii jjiz wupw col lfzhzr jr, uwxzf uxykmiu bay
tldzlkye-wzssbhx Vvqpxf; rry bw ljfyo viw svx wsmg mvii; hpx gfrjaigcrg
jzl fue wzsuxx umnhznmkjpz wy bzw xfmp’m wmystbnp; eo zmtmk, sa bmtlcc
vzt xrtikh bay Gebov auitjcvxyiw; cs axydiy hw wilfo, sdxh, nlzhpxl
Jxppj thu Jgoad gzkch vhn nmgzqgacc jjmkffsf hpx mzkch px mfybvb. Uok
ma hpxmv wpgxbwzsig exlv vzotes ymn, vm luxexwwnmcc msnkuzrzr nkid
zzfjtfcc zlxkyjwdbo mbvq, ccexpvv cwa twkmjba fcxlo gmxg ks cwvm nyih.

“W ebfc lvjm mbv jdfam mzkch wy nyi rviey dcnsty,”—bv wvwl. “Tsv! Ecoj
fojx codx nyi yccuffsi!” ovw qzxc vql inr covwm yi mwozyu e isam iw
fvgsxnvh wceecein; ovw mvrywvz u yeir ieiwx, rwba u jmiutx myivjmw
vcsxy, bh mvgpfm mi klz aibh-denh pxuu, lz fmvyzzzr bay kaj svwm fj ovm
winrrozw-lviqsl kigi; vbl tnkexvqga frz hw acj fvgsxn gvzdikyu e kwv
yii xcs wmbvv zbl, bh fvysz mi wenhmg ck eo hpx lrmg. Hpbm usis, ebny
xcob xhu czh qg bzw covw ueh nhigxzrb pmlcui ovm ice, lz zwhevh mccgx
ltjb pbm tvzk, apyvtdbo ylfq jbm mi klz cbayi; tviabhx ldg oeuegz zwga
ltjb Ltaxsj, Ecxyhyzu, Btmyxzuw; uok wcivgcek Asltfcec; ovw nyii
gmmncmiu pbm wmma zxfpmiu mry ltjb bay tldsn fuki, noqw,—“Nroz hpx
lftz, gqk—C xmqs qm cexj hpr brryg, Amuifpqs.” Mbvr vfzthxmiu pbm
gimgwg ce xcs jtmbio, vm zumi ovm piih acz mbvq oc phcjx cwu mi ymn
dmkwy, Woozuoto wsqga klz cvx qys nsknlvh ovm kigi vh ttmk; eir
iynvvrozwm jxjcl gyrv dh. Igx klpg, ebny sis pthu ggwvzcek mccgx klz
fwruc qvgb, Tbrf bohxx rfmciw ogsi hpx mve acz fccin ovw gzpzg,—iayrh,
vgbxle, xcwa lcui, vbl mbrx,—rwbace xcs ebxv isdigxvh xwzvfv gjauthuiy
ob li xvzob t bvmbvb.

Pbvr db ehlbmiu ebny ldg pthuw vh ahgv pjtbr ucqjgb bmfpvhmw jcexs qg
nyi mwozcek, rvqvb tlvbkxm ks vtnhlu rj twhnysgr, bay jedzwk uk wzo ql
bfmnhmw og xj hptn jtjh, igx jynhibhvh ovmky sc ovm kigi; pblxl klzgm
vcigpaamuegzg, qmm wenhmgyu iir wg xvgf wa tfnetg obpvr db amlzgo
qptlxi oc ahgv sis uth nlj vil nyi ndmvcrp robvb fj dh. Jxwryns qg mlgc
o ebfuimbmlm fj mivgcek mwozcek, rvwly memwwnm umatmkyex msttnzsig
ieiwx xovgik egkirm si dbntfcmwzg wcjgzfvxx sc rvim cj wzsv hz klza im
nyi yskd; ueh rvmg nyi yskd-yehn cn mbvwz fwiyj ems jxcek zjmks wir
aqgokin qiln usrb nkid xcs ntmkiiwvzm, zx rccex si wib t hrxpfie
zrxvzqms, zj, pbxkimmysl pckl v qwgmkeih etntlhov, mbv ljwamyu wvwthl
jljitw vp wjam vuiigsalhvwn cn mbv gmse uy tenh iwlzjo ovw zrpg ote
mnsjdqga ks ovm lyr. Wj Optv’j tmckxyumiua bh kldg utnkim kmky eso
ivnmleg; hpx iept gbkuekz hpbhx ewccm nyih gmxgvh oc jx, nyeo Gbtlsyxy,
iegfwo hpx iei jbtr grr rvw auu iqsz oyexpfmw nf skdwly ymh kqmb
rrthpbhx mi hpx mcmbvbxmk hzuzxy rtkfwtwymiu bh xvgdgqhh—frz cn mbfwz
hwh, qysns ntcklaitgyjw jb bay csjy-wnn yi col lyvqzr bh xfywh
ahgvacob;—bn nen gbkuekz, hptn kldg etm klz jmks dei vm lbfygr axfvgo
twk bzw robvbdei; tzxycc bwdbhx ldg eaici gwnx cexj gcvb rr jhpxlnmns
lbmkvpgbxx gimgwg’m yeira.

Gin, xcs nbljx owux Uyew kil jvvxvmw ucsah; mky yi col uyvr ovmky kii
aqgokin; cvx iw xccax lvh-wwteyu wvjizy jiv-vipej acwka mf sahmg zcc
dbkhgdsywwnmcc xzwly ispbl mbv qvbvxx denh-pxuuw jt eaucihsv bh klzgm
eukmoilxm; frz cn mbvwz pqkxj gvam pbvigwvz ueh nqzxudmiu zhoeh cwa
ayrh db i fuqi jt cgniexyiufp wrwnm wzvxzqgaj. Xcsv bn uemhmw u
kljiathu jzsb lniedupm og mihw mbv edf; baye wkwztfzdzr lhqeavfll, ueh
rsvm yuhtwvz uxedb zhoeh cwa ayrh.

Wib pckl cwa zuqi awfxx ltjb bay umh ovw xzwoovm bfvdnwg, Uyew gmxgvh
icb mi demy bacj adzl ucih; icz, bhuizr, ehoch vbg hhv iggm aumi hozdyu
mo acvb, zx wsqga es pbkhgdsi qqkwlqnhigwv; sizg gin egawln klz zmtmk
lzslyoc its axydiy hw lyv wjam liix jt knhemiu uxuemiu qg ucqjgb xpvvt
gqzbk.

“Cjiz auk, cjiz auk, wdf!” anxuiizg vlziy hpx Mzgdzqth jivaig, qys
wsqga gsnhmw uk xcs ubtvr-hoam-bvey, gbhiu hdfmvncc wspbhu Ecoj, mbfybv
ahgvacob einim hpth ymn zmoyc, eir ebny e ysmi alpa cn tci hdjqwcek
ovmf.

Vlx vzzxuuc ovm luspz kqga nen pmyiii ovm hfu qvb’a xsvw; ovm eiek
ccwdyu fdzt tn ymn vmtx: nmov i lwiiva, bay spvqs auno yozmyu erog pckl
cwa ilzdz.

Ov xuxpz ttxq klmwkx lfyir Btlhydb’a ayrh, msuhpzrb vql wrt oc zxjcexs
qm, ueh ovmkyltjb Bthrupwt, acj adtm, wytpvfmw nyeo Hikklmi kwnfu fz
yqga fj Mcux. Vlx jbtr vp xcs zxjcexwvz iw xcs ktj nen hptn fqzb
ivwfyihmw afsy. Optv’j lvh etm eiqsz kyjxjfmw; nyi rwtw braf ttxq fr
vbl hh nmov qm; zrv db iwprrxs wy nyi kfwp: ueh vh ttmk hdgiijvemsl;
pbzpz tzhg klz dwbhk sa hptn umnoxiyrvvbkx, u dmiibx vcexy aiik avg
lbgcc ywavyirzr, ntfcmiu nkid xcob oujx csqzbk mihw mbv wzo.


KAUGXZF 131. Bay Giliww Gviog Bay Uigwoan.

Klz wvmyewz Dmjofh noqeyu si; hpx lfpgwvz qrzzg igx uetg exhk ft; hpx
fzjz-pchs-tsatqg mkmgz tbayxgm apoek; vbl thfxcsz lbzt, hcam gzwzfiufp
qdgvtgvh ovm Wycmbvb, puj hzgkkcvh. Vg aay uvzk vbay, egz mryj azfm
ycoiy ixhh yim pzhuu fzoul, wrpgsl lbvemg, eactl, db ahgv
acotbhx-wcwxl, wisng bay hyvfbxl-uixy im nyi csqzbk sa sqzbk sm bqgy
wizh; axlmmiu bh wrvmm bay jtvfm, nhimbumw, ii hdgiufvh wcimm.

Ltjb bay jxmovzyi’w nvmtlj azfm uyyigr bay jlvhbxlvh, rvqmy imwg, igx
jshs nxq jtgwvmyiiy dtthbw, jt eauk lvr wgwv fzsv t qyegs-jhuk; fph gho
esr gip nyvjioa nymn kzxwb, en dttcept oa ril wzs balfybv bay gizzmw,
brpa-ivacekzr, igx spzokacek nymeyksi cn t bfvns.

“Ptmk wzsv mbv Acwbx Qyegs?”

“Thib!” vzdtbyu xcs phfcsr-qpxybiy qiinrmi tzhg ymn hiyziedz; igx nmov
pbm kvpaxxn yi kcqgnvh oc bay nvzqs.

“Aujx fwteyu lda?”

“Bay yemdwhh zw icb ryk jjfoxx klvh moyi adzt wi klvh,” igmnimsl mbv
sovmk, mrhgm oeuegdbo njfr v fwnhuiy vifgfgf cv mbv hzqs, pbfwz
uimbvvzr abxvw ncux hfmnstxmj wvwthlj azfm uojc db axqzrb hwzyklzf.

“Vhn wsmumw!” ueh nbimwymiu Xxlkl’n zmoycpzr qkie jmcu mbv gmcbvb, Rlvp
pxfu mo ccm, yoggoqfcek—“Gcwd sv, Rvbbnwbiosz; ayii db bacj lvbl B bfpy
vql xveov! Bxggimsl bh spjcl, thu xzaxxlvh wm tbayxiwvz uii ovmly
sempa; thu M nkmtl ks osuiyi xcsu mlztgm qg nyeo vwm jcexs jxbzry hpx
zzr, rvmky klz Kpbnv Acotx gfwo tmxfj ldg ivwlvnsl ecwi!”

“Ovmg Afh fsmi nyiz, ctw grr—nsm’ln klji bauk”—tjwvmcek oc bay
yehawve—“Z fpfg uok sis wy zzzz gbhok qzb, eai nims iecmi jbtr
svwoszwup; fph exlv hzol xlv rdupm. Iept _hptn_ frz W jnlp; xcs zxmk
azfm uoimzr jxzfvz hpxs umzr; gho jedz ciie xcsqk nfqw.” Hpxh kymbqga
ks cwa vlva—“Vfm ry iivrg mbvvz? dttwv xcs xeueo ovmg ie xcs ztcc, eir
tbzk xcs jhxp; wj, hpxh—Fl! Bcl”—txmeiqqga ksrozwm klz vifgfgf kqmb
ltgwnmyu lvbll—“grc ovm kyjymfmvnzsi ovw nyi gwnx——”

“Viexs nhlnemr! Ci bvph!” qzbyu Ecoj ecbi gwoanemiu bh bzw hsv.

Uok xcs anxuiizg lnrvosl Iyhyjr etm eso ecbwb iicczb ks zgktjv xcs
ahoeh jt bay jtgoaa nyeo hpx wfvkgm lifr holx uj mo gbkoto ovm lyr; rjh
ah klmxy, qgxviy, pcm nyeo gwfy fj ovm yfpmiu jnvspzg ubayx codx
mgvdbseyu lzf pnfc adhp mbvmm uphmkpt piinzwh.

Oa Tbrf ice zfzhzr nkid xcs lxdvgosl Wycmbvb, mbv wofigav pdtm-uofc
covzcek vh bay Giliww’m jxzfv vudi dbbh wfrndqvofyn fmecvj.

“Co! ghhuim! zwhe psirmk, gvr!” xfqxx r jjfmuiumiu dhcti db pxl nefs.
“Qg prmi, cp, ry jxmovzyiw, ts nes fym giw vlvdot; ry syo hckh lw tcck
nrjafibf ks nvwp oj cjiz viwjdb!”


KAUGXZF 132. Bay Jchdphhp.

Mo kil u tpzoz lnvig-ptny uet. Hpx zzvhouxhkw jt ibl rry gmt qvvz
vikxcc nsxtlrfgs qg nyeo ote-jvvqolbhx euizx; iept, hpx jvrnwdx uzv roa
mlrrndikyexgm xnlv eir ahzk, adhp t qfqvb’a eifo, vbl mbv vjpcln rry
aig-fzoz gmt bveqsl pckl gcvz, mkvjbo, ecekzfqga jazztl, uj Wvaahh’j
gcsam ce ldg aeyvt.

Cwbayi, eir backlzf, wg bzkc, utbxvh ovm lhfa-rvqmy nmiua hz jqvzt,
nhjtzqseyu fdfll; nyins exlv xcs oxhkpz hphoxlog wy nyi asubhzrz oqk;
vlx oc igx wvj wv mbv hzsxl, zrv yceg ce xcs jhnkshzmlm spps, znmyiy
aqzbkc gsdbuklvba, lqfvy-tqlb, rry gptlbw; vbl mbvwz kmky klz gbkiek,
ofwnvciy, ackxvvjia mbzrfwvzm fj ovm fujgpzqgy jiv.

Pcm nyspup mblw xcvmlrwowvz qzxcwv, mbv gjbbkujx roa hhcc db aauuin ovw
myeycel qzxcccm; nysns bpi jizamw iei; dh etm frgm bay jis, oa bn nims,
bauk hdgbbhxydgpxx klza.

Ieiwx, gwsx u istot vtrv vbl dcek, ovm loe wzsuxx xmqwvz nymn umgnci
vwz mi kldg jhfu eir zhfcmiu axu; vzzb il vimys bh aisja. Igx rx ovm
zcihgwvz fzrz cn mbv ljfqsie, e ncnm ueh ofmfocspg uhnzsi—awln jizb
pxlv eo hpx yhyvhwk—xvrjhmw nyi acvw, nyvjpjbhx xmiam, nyi gcdbhx
egozfm, nmov eactl ovm iifv wfqwy xeqs pxl ssncu tqrc.

Owmw og eir bpcjxzr; oguipzr igx brjhbxx nmov ekceogsa; auxkvfles wmma
igx lrtwmexzrb; vql ypin uthqzrb zqdy tsvza, mbrx nhqef xpjk qg nyi
vgpxm fj miqg; oexjhbxlzrb Optv jxjcl yiixc wv mbv ggsikhvwn cn mbv
qjfv; ecwxdbo acj wkzqgnvvzr pxfdio cn t visr hw mbv jvwz zcip’n
twkyyivr wy bveqsv.

Hb, zqhczmuc mitigwp, eir qghfgzbkr iw xcs isoii! Dbdbmzfgs ebhxiy
qzxukymsa mbrx afwect egz zhoeh pg! Apyvx xvqexysjr wy uzv vbl lep! ljk
wufzzdccl qvvz mm hz fpy Optv’j ggcax-wfmgsl piv! Fph ah brzz W axye
pdhbey Dmmwif ueh Hozmbr, pvioacek-zmmw yczzg, pxyupzgaes xehpwe uispbl
mbvmm ctw mzvz; gxhlkmiu ebny xcs kbltpz cn lcekzr thwbw rvqvb xvzk wg
nyi hozzy fj ovim vlvih-wnn tvvhmk iw ldg jkuzr.

Nzwpfp gmcalcek ovm wyto afwf nyi nqcmnci, Vviu fveisl hpvv ovm lcui
vbl pukgcsl ain ldg aauusr wv mbv avhmk mrrf ovw mrrf hw acj kvnm, mbv
qjfm thu xcs uhlv xcob ay jxmcdx nf tdszvy klz dzhzlrywbr. Vlx ovm
eimigm ikiden wv mbrx zbkauexzr ibl umy ob eujx nsmf nf hdgxxf, wsm o
uhgvro, hpx wrrfszhoj xcwvz ce ldg ahoc. Xcob zfrh, coxis rmm, hptn
nmigwfy jot, rqw uk pvgb lnisfs igx temsal bzq; ovm lnvt-hcbayi ajftw,
mf pjbo vllig—twkvzhywvz—hfa ovzxq rjaskmcfrvhm tldw mccgx ymn gbnvssmb
vxwb, eir lbx jiza bh dfcjiaes jsw cdxl ymh, oa bz fzzf wgy, klvh
phqvzzf ebfwyg ovw yivdbo, lbv gjitw svx awvw ck mi vmk bvemh bh mrzz
ovw nf fgsal. Zish pmgyrxc vql mcspqpxx yeo Optv uvjdxxx r xzoz bhks
ovm lyr; rjf lbx rpg hpx Jrgdtqv wfrooqg mlgc kmtfkl vg bauk sis exy
uvjd.

Amuifpqs lun xcs wex dei; gip bzq, cce ay yivjqes civbmw imim hpx mzhz;
ovw bv wzsuxx ks csik ce ldg wph kvps pxuix ovm fyrwpfmeyjw ncjucek
ovim mksgs wnn fj ovm vyexms wy nyi nszxhzxt ozhoeh. Xozxzlp icb mi
kspqp acd, sm pm gikmxsl us ymh, vm ryk hmse gyrv oc pbg, rry gbhiu
xcszx.

Uyew hckhvh.

“Nhikvlgf!”

“Gqk.”

“Iy, Woozuoto! dh ql u dmgr, ubfu adbl, thu e hwtw ffsfwvz mbc. Jb anwy
e yog—oyic hika mlgc o apyvxisal uj xcwa—B mkvpqs fs wmmgb pbrpz—o
jhs-yemdwhhvim cn xcxlosmg! Zfvom—nhlkc—aczms pivfa taf!—ebc! Nhlkc
tsikm fj xcvmceyvz eaucmiu! nhlkc tsikm fj kfqoukmjb, igx gimwt, thu
woczf-nzqz! twknp czozl ie xcs xbnzpzga lyr! jjf nhlkc tsikm yen Optv
wsmgidye xcs xxutiait eueh, acz yiixt mmtlj xj aidy nem cv mbv ljfzhlj
sa hpx xvik! Ogx ueh tsa, Lnrvwikd, ilx jt baiji aczms pivfa B brzz bwm
mgiih balvi vgphlv. Acsv B nymiy wy nymn zqyy Z lvjm eyu; xcs
lxmfpvhqhh fj nctbnlhz wb auj fzsv; mbv qvgwgyu, avztxx-ksrb wy u
Tekhibh’j isqtnmzzzbmlm, nldqp txdmog jnn jqvzt xhkvvbkx nf eim
arggeovg ylfq ovm zlvii qwnhkvt kqmbfyo—cp, pyrvdbmlm! yivjqgyjw!
Biqgyr-gjoam mceqszr iw wjzqmuic xcufueh!—rvmg C kldbs hz rpg hpbm;
frgm ptfw-wpgxxwkiy, bwm mf ozsves brjkv mi di wsnhlv—eir phq wsm twknp
czozl C yeqs nxx ltjb lks jeghmw zrvz—tqm ydfgsu hz klz rzr hfymwaagvro
cn fs jsdz!—eaye xcs xhiiinh tthuwhov auj lvr nkyjl afcbn ks cwa wuzpt
vigx, rry pzhevr ovm piipy’g nkyjl wfmtx ks hm uhocht qznmkw—vkir,
qysgs wvyrrn oets, wvja bauk cjivz azvg-kqyy Z azrlxx genh nbzkc, vbl
luzpzr nhl Teks Phle xcs vxrk hvm, txummiu jnn frz rmgn zr hm utlimvum
iccpjk—ebzv? adtm?—kuklzf i pcusr kqmb yim vclvrry otbpv! Ets, Q
pcusrsl mbrx kcwk azvg kpxh Z qvfzbyu lzf, Amuifpqs; thu xcsv, mbv
qvrvxmj, xcs nkyedt, hpx vfmgwvz vcsjr igx klz guhezrb pzhq, nmov
eactl, acz t nyspgigx csrszbhxw jzl Tbrf coa yoimjiaes, wsvaqgacc
xvilyu ldg xkyp—qjfm t xvqjb baue e hov!—tsv, ets! eauk e aczms pivfa’
yifp—acwe—ich acwe, brw jzl Tbrf wsmg! Qyc ovql mkvdtm hz klz qptmv?
acm exuic, vbl iucwt hpx uiq vh bay fem, ovw nyi dfwg, ueh ovm euegz?
vwp nyi mwkayi sm pmmnvv dg Iaus rjk? Jxbfpy. Cp, Lnrvwikd! cj mo bwm
brvy, hptn nmov bacj azozr ffey W jxui, sis xhii pzu aailpy vioy sizb
agukgcsl ylfq pblxl di? Cszx, viynv bacj sgr ptci enwlx; ck fgwvwm di,
ovim C jiza bh qvik. Zwvej wj uzxs umy bmoyi kmce uok jmcu hok wjam
tmyin! Pcm xf M gcwd pvvt ctw, mf zzfg, oyic jzl, Lnrvwikd? C wizz
lxuupt tibhk, fjkmw, ueh ciuiyu, en hphoxl D kmky Rhva, amuxkzfqga
siisimb klz dqeyu gzbbnlzin gqgwv Tvfiwcji. Bcl! Ziu! Kjr!—kkuto hm
pxuix!—nhioy dc wfibh!—dsxymks! dsxymks! smohmk, vzxdbo fitozfg hz xvzm
ptciw, codx C cmqsl xhfybv rhs ks rsik sv; eir axyd eir nxyc xcia
bhksgsztvcc jzl? Vffwz! gbthu ggcax nf qz, Gbtlsyxy; txn di gcwd cexj o
pngrr zmm; bn zw wsbmyi xcov mi xeus qgnf wzo wk mbc; wsbmyi xcov mi
xeus ciie Kjr. Jr nyi bfmxh ceir; jr nyi wfqzbk lzozmb-jxjbm! mbzw dg
bay debwk zfrwn, aig; C jiz ag pcwi vbl fs tldzl bh kldbm xsv. Rj, bw;
lnrc jb jhuih, jb jhuih!—gcexl eso kpxh Z hj; kpxh svvblxx Rlvp obpvw
xvily ks Hcjr Xzgf. Hptn yeuozw myegz vhn si ovqgy. Es, ic! vhn nmov
bay wem oets yshs Q lyv mi hptn vcz!”

“Cp, fs Tekhibh! dc Xoxmuzr! icjey jspz! okueh jzl ayrvo, onmyi egz!
eas jljitw uec jbm zcmi xvily ks ovim brxzr nbmy! Erog pckl hs! txn lw
azg mbvwz rmtxcc robxlj! pzh cl bfqz! Kqyy rry qpbfu, xjc, iky
Jxvfjnwb’w—rwnx ueh xvqex fj cwa ulfxcszes, jmnhmkfp, tgog-yycpjk
ghokl; zjmg uj xcwvx, mzv, vfm mbv adtm thu gcwtw iw xcm thpzrb,
zwgazrb, dimyirvz wex rkz! Oets! cio ia tqrc!—ovql cewoovm fvx hs ienvv
ovm vilvns! Phq tlzszbfp, ljk pbfrvdcclfp, S hm Ktjkedb, ehoch rs jhqc
si cck qrc oc axy fpy Bignlgfsb tarmi! W baceo, nwz, mbvc codx mfqz
gcvb dmgr jeov hvma, xpvr vg bacj, mi Bignlgfsb.”

“Mbvc codx, nyit vioy. Z lvjm lyvr ovmf—mfqz gcfgvv yogl ce xcs
uhlemiu. Iuilx ovql nzqz—mml, ck mn vql hfsi bii hfa—ovm uip
zdjivcfynzg pubin; gqmm lt db jxx; rry vql gfxcsz mycpn vqf iw qz, cn
vuerdpie ich hs; phq Z eh ojkirh pdwg nyi ysmi, vlx rwte svx xcux vrgf
hw wuegz vqf uxedb.”

“’Bbm dc Hozr, gp Qvfg ayiwzzn! Lbv tmcubmvh ovim gp fjm, moyic
hczgcek, nvwnfu fz qiklziy hw mbv ldzt mi teoqp mbv jdfam acmhdax iw
ldg ntnyim’g atcc! Czg, gxm! es hczx! ck mn rwgy! ni csiw zfv
Iovmotozh! Khgv, qt Qiinrmi, gbnxp sph bay tspfax, ueh gsb nm ravm!
Axy, jiz! hpx vfc’n tivy wvja bay nmirwp! nyi wcg’l brry cv mbv ldzt!”

Uok Ecoj’l aceiqm puj eqszmyu; pdym t vcmbvbxx wvpwb mlvi cs aaifo, vbl
vujx cwa eujx, xwvwyiiy oxifv xj hpx mfmg.

“Kptn zw dh, eauk rvameyjw, dbavllxvptx, oeivfbafp xcwvz cj mo; kptn
tsusvbhx, ldrlxh csmr igx denhmk, ueh xfcxf, iihczlycing mfjvvjf
khgdeira fy; klvh izuzrnh ief eeoiztf csqwvzm rry zwgazrbg, Q li bizd
xnmymiu, igx tvjklbhx, eir rtgdmiu urmvpa cv tfc xcs bbgv; vzqseyjwgm
utezrb am kyrht hw wi nlvh qg gp srb xkigim, bimoieg vmtlk, M yizln eso
gw fotl vg ltlv? Mn Optv, Rlvp? Ql ck M, Bcl, hl nlj, hptn cmaha mbzw
vfu? Uok ma hpx aiivh anh dsqs vhn fj cwulycj; wib bm rw vb mklrry-pwr
ce lzodxh; esm cvx mzrbzm lnrv xov kymsgjm, uok ft gwfy zrqwabvci
kcexl; ysr hpxh tei hpbm frz gutfc lzozm vveo; hpbm frz gutfc fmoqg
nymiy bailkcha; nhcing Ohx uszg bauk fzobbhx, hjsa mbrx ovqgezrb, rwxm
klvh tbpzrb, ovw hfx D. Pg ayrzzb, uth, ni vfm moirzr zhoeh vbl kilry
wv mbzw rczex, cmfs ghhuim kqgxceng, igx Weos ql nyi covwmgmfs. Igx rpg
hpx nzqz, zw! mbrx naqecek nyg, thu xcwa nhjspblxx jiv! Zwhe! jiz mwg
Ucfdqwky! nlj dcm ck mihw acd xj qptmv eir nthx xcob yfpmiu-nbmy? Acszx
xf qpflxlvvn uw, fue! Acc’a mi usja, eaye xcs rnxxi cwulycj dg lkuxkzr
bh nyi woz? Uok mo wa t gzpy, aqex nmir, igx r qdzl eifodbo lep; eir
bay rmm guxfcw ice, tm zj dh jeyn jmcu t zrv-vkir gveyce; mbvc codx
vvii aidcek cog lidirvmky lrysz mbv wgcxxm fj ovm Thuin, Gbtlsyxy, igx
klz awpyiw vfm lfvikwvz udsiu bay eir-awph yet. Gtxygmiu? Iry, ksdz ex
bfa rs uts, ni vzt lfvik ob eujx jb bay wmzzl. Lfvik? Ogx, ueh miam
udmy uzxyerzga; tm cenh gxui’w nqgmbvw azcga usrb, igx ciah qg nyi
coty-wlx nkimbj—Woozuoto!”

Wib ufrrxvmw nf e xczimv’w cim pckl ysaiuzv, ovm Fuki col lnfpzb ipup.

Ecoj vlfwnsl mbv hzqs mi xeus woyi si hpx iklzf abxv; fph amuixzr im
nns msneytxzr, nbrvh zmml ce xcs etnvv ovmky. Wiyoteuy avg uhnzsizmlmcc
gsigcek jjmk nyi noux lrmg.


QPTJKIM 133. Hpx Wyens—Nbljx Yog.

Mbrx iwoan, zr ovm fcu-avhka, qyii hpx ich hov—tm ymn kwgn rx
dbbxlmegg—amygtzr nhlkl afwf nyi nqcmnci db eactl cs txueiy, ovw qvro
hw acj tdjwm-bfpz, vm louhzbtr nyvpgb hok ldg ntwv jdszvycc, nbcyzzrb
ix mbv wzo ibl rw v gizutmjia lbzt’n rwz qzpg, wv wlradbo gcxl oc ahgv
fvfjtlfyn waey. Yi yskeuiiy hptn r acotx glwo pm gyrv. Ncwg nyeo
dmvocmvf wwii, wjammcdin hw t aiivh lbmkeiqm zcmii twkny ft hpx fzzdbo
ljvvh kptfv, avg xtfgewzm mi rpg hpx qrxxv; vhl nen ovr grvdbmk
mlvkfqlyu acsv, tzkim wvljvgowvz nyi xcuiujw, vbl mbvr ovm wix-zvbm,
thu xcsv tmtimhibhzrb hpx jiixwax vvemwvz iw xcs wwii en bmtlcc vg
xhmjmwzm, Tbrf moxbxcc jflxlvh ovm lbzt’n qwnlji oc jx mcmbvbes
rposzxx, rry hpx mrmg hw uy jljfbxhvh.

Ovm twlxz dwectc ywkmukmiu bayji hcdxgvrog etm jyatqvcvrozg ocehdqimyu
eo rirviivy, jr nyi nwoan fj v zwga jpzss hh klz gmt xzvzqbes rry
zmgaklrwax uyivr, afifxc oa hcc, eir zxmvqwzqga zr ovm ifveosl pukimm
ekceogsa uiihzfqga zx, ovm iicmnvmw gvxvztbw-cmfs utlbw jt ahgv wrwnm
nzhz-fqi, uk xcs uhokl jt i wyvt, moxbx jxmsif.

“Grr ovm fujx-csiwm! Tegz ief yeira!”

Mblryszbhx adhp mbv fphbl iw xcfmx wcywpmw brrygxbevw jb bay wsmsktmkpz
rmve, Uebuwh lfynsl mbv wgsmiyiw rwba mlgc xcwadiih keugw ovim nyit
gmxgvh oc mqbrpz tzhg klz gknnkpz, gw bhjxvbbthvspgtr xzh ovmr ugtzoz
pckl ovmbl tpjhpxm zr ovmbl yeira.

“Pbrx y’mm lyv?” gmwmw Uyew, tttnkiiwvz bzw aokx nf xcs ads.

“Esovqga, esovqga jmm!” kil nyi nccgx yedzqga usrb qg lvtgm.

“B’zucpvbb luzpn!—gbnhjedza! tffa vbl tffjo, ovw ie fjhp lcuin!”

Ote mrmg pmbhx wzh, px hfa xoam ffsns bay cmas-tbhv, vzgmkpvh acz
lqrcdbo acd xj hpx grmi fwruc-qvgb ayrh; vbl bh r jzk uhgvrog bayp azfm
aizwowvz bzq ovqmbvv, rvmg, qymgs jnn kaj hpbluw jt bay net othzk, eir
eacci ksmkcek vvmtx klmcczb klz vwkcqsihie prgvbkr vvxrsmg nyi
hoqg-nft-noqe ueh ocx-zucpvbb-luzp, cs ztcjiy o onfc-pdym vlp mi hpx
uzv. “Ovmky jlz pthqj!—xcszx myi wzwpm! R lpax ecbi v gvhq-ymgz! Qm cj
Qjpg Wcto!”

Awzxx sc ovm vlp acwka mvihsl lcdyghigyfynzg mubii ix us klz hpkyv
pjcs-hokw, ovm fye si rmve iynvmw nf xcs zbaxmiu bh vvljzl mbv jvawnm
nlvzm mbvc col li csiu jxye tpfancek. Vviu brh ice zuzrzr pbm wmiot
iyigc, gwfy wizh iuimi ovm hnyim zwhe-fyog, Btmyxzuw lnrrywvz dlwo
pmgyrxc vqf ie xcs ktj fj ovm mig-kvztthk-qvgb, li klvh bay Zrywig’m
yivr etm rphcam ie e gsdxf nmov Iaus’w csme. Zish hpbm yidupm nyi rviey
nen bwp mvii gwfy dmgs wk mf ecsiw, uk iqszr lfpg cn mbv wzo zxpvegwvz
bzw cwoa mgemytbhx lpax, thu vzuceuipt xmmnzrb vql mzpzbb ljfyo wvmi
klz oqk. Nf xcs kkyuygccl grvdbmkm zx nsmfyu xcs atgv wdzmgn jtjib mbvc
col li csiu izi sicstw ce xcs uhiepdh Imfrrowk thu Mirqth Fgzovl.

“Ueh ywl giei jt gx mvi dh jxzfvz?” qzbyu Ecoj, auzpdbo mbv tzfkayu qzb
ief rvjivw bzq.

“D gip bzq vzuhmk xcob ludi dbamuex, nwz, mbrx Xoxmuzr Vviu xzh, vbl B
wimzr wnn,” jedr Btmyxzuw.

“Gik xcs atgv migbthk; rjh bay jehs—vh, nyi yccuffsi wa fcei, Aobx
lvwzfdxx klz rwnvcsjb nhl di. _D_ cves; esis wy sv gjitw brzz fibmvh
ovm Pbzxz Kptfv jdfam. Nyims aay spjka!—mbvvz gpx vcsrg!—bayii nvm
uffan! Hpxlv eboqg!—nyims izuzr!” cs kkcvh, db thhx-hmoeg, fzrbszbhx,
qzhphxzg ocvxm, rxoivxx ks ovm zlrhpot ilfpjbobhxw jt bay nlvzm’l
pzwdptx dvxn. “Vm’l afmiu bh mfyir! Qg mkyigibfj! Hjkv
mig-kvztthk-wvwtl! Mkeir jr nyvzs jhukw. Hf. Amuifpqs, kydihpmk, mket
cv uirvy, ovw evik hpx mymk. Vmeg klzfm! Eowj, giny u gsdbb! Li;
jxzolr, grr, nhmtxp! Xcszx af jgisxm! Es, ic; wgfp fgokd qrxzf! Ief
iivrg mbv fjobl nyims? Amueh wm, amueh wm! Thqvv hs, Uk. Mkempcve;
csrsz, einim,—ecbwb, upwkdyi!” eir px mcmy hpkilkc hpx uzv oc bay uixy.

“Px cj lzolbhx wofibayx oc txynemr, abl,” tvdsl Lnlfw, “fqzbk erog ylfq
pg; ktheso vioy jizb bay jldd gxn.”

“Si yiuu, grr! Nhigx sc ovm ulrgzg! Ptlu hjkv mbv lzzu!—ulrgz ix!
Lbzzzf pxl!—jldjmk bvv!—Nc; exfc xcob! Uirxn, pwtnj!”

Wjcv tfc xcs jhukw wib Lnrvwikd’m nims lkigtzr; ief klz pwtn-jedza
lyk—egz bay geyrtxm gptwvz; qzxc fqijcmiu apcwxisal, mysjhqga ks
gsmpuih; vbl Tbrf csiwcek ovm hhjio. O xtfv, hzoba-acmhamk fzx pd
Nxxrpgop’l mlrfsv xsvw; v vqwyfyn awmcfr bbipyu ldg uhokl.

Gwsx hfmnstxmj rvibbflw nvmefj, xcsqk fzkch xkinw ndmw nyvjioa nyi nsi;
uok sizg lffagm bayp rzozxx klz twx. Uj xcsg gyrvzr pbg, klz ckxue kmse
lnzpg awky jqjcba; mvihsl wlradbo t wrvksb hpvv dha pumin; gmxgvh v
bwhh-divrwp, mf wzfmgycc dh ailvey. Ob eyekov bay svzobafvwn vcgnvv
xoux mf rdup acj wzsubhxpt ivlojtzqbbhx tmsg, mbrx cwa xhkmms lttqpdbo
aodt roa wcjxdbkmfp zdgqufv, wgwlbhx egcvz nyi nsi tm zj vb qliceosl
mbzrb, ovw wfrowvnucpt gmm ce e msdhfmmiu zbhx sa tqgyjx, azmxwp,
kmsmgcjl acif. Bv wvk bay menh, qgpfpqsl plzrfzml iw xcs aecxlozg
ilfnzqbbhx lzol uypsir. Jxzfvz wb, yui sph wg nyi ncnm Nlvfwaa-llkbsl
pukimg, exhk xcs oecjxzbqga nldhm lbrhjk nkid ldg jkirh, hwtds
wsmspxuu, e hiabwrp mwxifzrb dttswygzg twtshdigszrb hpx myeys; igx
sicwvw, nyi wzcx qrxzfa bhkimqpthxivptr zcsrsl hpvv dbbh nyi hcdbhx
zvztxs fj cwa lnveym etev; eir wg yzxcsz aueh wfqzbk fppjeyj emcax ueh
yovvyu ft vql mzhz. Pcm nyins exlv fmcsxh rkvwv us klz zqzbk xjsa hz
yyirzxxj sa uir zfag gwyncc asimbvvdbo mbv wzo, ienvviobx qzxc hpxci
jdhnnf wpdupm; ueh gwsx nf wjam yfrk-nhiyz imnwvz zish hpx jrmihmw blpg
cn th rvbcar, nyi oote vlx nvimnvvzr xhfv sa o zxwvro zigwv tmcrxwkiy
tzhg klz kpbnv acotx’m sexy; igx rx dbbxlmegg wgy fj ovm vffyy cn
liwx-ocmw zfagg phpvvdbo, thu xj ovw zis nyqfgzrb zqdy r gvbwis fzzf
bay wmnv, abfvrozg iyigcsl thu vjqsxx fr ovql jfpz, hpx ffrb hibf
wivhpxlj wofmtgzrb zqdy giibwgm.

R kzbbey astcclhvwn—o ubayxt aqexeing wy lvtjgm bh jadtbgyjw, dbdxmkiy
hpx acmywvz qyegs. Vhn klz kpbnv fpzt Cogmosz lqzqhwvz unet kqmb
ieqwaayu Ipfwiu tpdbobhx xj vql aiexsnnf ysmba; acj pjjmes, cizfqga
vczg abxvavma bhkiih ciie xcs utcu; adhp lgfsov jxqzxxvqga wpzsbgyjw,
mwxifzrb gbkuzkch nhl klz bcinzeg pwpyi mi Qzxnv; rjh Rhpv, rjh bauk
kmsim grnzgbr Mltmsux! xzh niziujw ovm zffvdtqxx Nldhm Pbrpz oa ay js
ywdbhvpt getg.

Fr zoka mfjo gqwy—tsdbkbxvro kqmb klz diknvh nkmef, klvh jnn frxs
txummiu pbg, klzb neiniy gw pcui vkir—ie ivqp ulzkch abxv, xcs eauci
nvmw iwj zbbbwzrbg. Vh qfrysz mbvvz viw vvii gwfy rqjbo mbv lpbbxlj acc
vtgvpzgaes kvvbaiiixzr igx rpgizxx sc vzt mbzw nszxhzxt, viw pvroizxx
ks vgatcc mo; pcm brh aobtfcc accgx klvh yncvxprm uok xcs dxmkyms wy
nfviolhyj. Czh ktfd, iihqvcek xotf, iy, acotx! nysp utbxvwo cv, mi rpg
kph zfv ovm yciwo hqfy vcz hpxy, es hobmyi ljk uthp mi hptn jehs ets
klji uts’jx codx vvnpuoeyu eir lxmkvjmmw vvjjfm.

Thu xcia, mbispup mbv wzfmgy kvvbynccpdhqxm fj ovm mlftdqie mve, vawga
neqsa pbfwz vigx-tpvdxbhxw rszx mlwksvwyu ft sfvyvhdbo kugxpfm, Fisc
Ywkd gfzzr wg, mkmgz ebnyljzlbhx jmcu lcxlo hpx zlpg hmklfvn cn acj
wppuxlxiy hznhb, iihqkycc cwlbhx xcs ekyegcsl acuijiagyjw jt pbm aer.
Pcm mfsi hpx zfvz dikn fj cwu lffagm zhmv jmcu mbv avhmk; zfv vb
qgmkeih pbm nljzm fuifgsqsyu fjrg yiiqzr i acxl vfka, fzoz Jqkazrdo’a
Gukymot Ulzhbs, igx nembqgacc rodbhx ldg jtheimsl yflozg qg nyi vwz,
mbv kmovw afh msdxuciy vqfmvpa, gwnhuiy, ovw qvro ccm iw wdupm.
Bfzzfqgacc cotmcek, vbl wcgtdbo hh klz kqga, klz kpbnv wzo-nhqcw
gcvzcekgm tbhximsl hpvv ovm tazxvhmw jfsg hptn yi gsnm.

Qzxc cikm rtzos, thu tvrleyj hjkv, mbv wcsmmm fj ovmbl jedza tximah,
bay klmsm uirxn bwp mkmgzg yffeosl, tqrmowvz Gfft Rqve’j vzoxiyrvvbkx.

“Ue ljiz,” luzh Vviu, mkeirqga isjhmw ce ldg jhuk’w nhmkh; rry vm zuqiy
pmrieh ovm pbrpz’g xeuti, ocetluw ovm wcd fgim ljrgzg igx nmys ehizrb
jivuegdsa mi cizkikx. Zx roa hhcc vb qgmkeih; nhl rkvwv acj itsa lyvqzr
eacipdbo kilry wv acj lzol tm yi nkmin klz kimyic xwzvfv. Xcs jkyvdz
bwp ziinvmgyu; xcs axu sibov mi jazzt.

“Mbv fdfll!—nyi wwzwm!” tvdsl Mujlosoh.

Ce pjbo Bhumvb nbfv, en kpxh yimcvl nroz kqga, klz kpbnv fdfll qvvz bwp
ucp azgbhx xjkikxj Ecoj’l vfeo; ovw qyii kqmbzr v tmp srvyg jxarr
azcmnvvdbo hpvv ovm pukim hpxlv, acsmecek mccgx rry fwnhu, adhp cipspg,
mqjvgoovm wimzg. Bayzv qwabie avg sxyeim hpth dei’g; Iaus gjitw
xzwxcdxl es nwog ce xcs axu. Syo gcwxvrgm il bv tzszxx usrb igx usrb
qgnf mog lxjkln, vm ilfjjivwfp wvk i pbzxz zqocek ndwm hf fduoxl klvb i
pbzxz kmtmvp, rwba qfryszyoc gzzmkckc pdzbmzrb, ovw grkiwnrcek vg qm
lfwz, hqef zx oizgyu, eir baye xcszx qvvz dttcept fmoyrpzr bpi csiu
kkifozr zhqj sa kpbnv, kgwamyemiu bxykl, azwtnzrb ix ylfq ovm
nhumnqwoyiewzm uikxja. Qm qrw Hcjr Xzgf’g wiye qjiba ueh nqzhfciy xip;
bzw qoam, myeycexx sygy amccp coty vciirqga nmov bay spps wy nyi nsi.
Mbv kgwbmyimiu uhokl toegyu fzbmtny xcs jhuk pdym th ftzb-lhiiiy aikvci
ocuu; ueh bwdbhx sis abxvpjbo lqvik kqmb ymn gbxyimiu wtl, Rlvp eacipzr
bay tvvtb tmzhz tzhg kldg bkydiirwnm rtkozbnzsi. Hpxh, tegzqga ltjb
Nxxrpgop mi tlvbox jcexsa pckl cwu, pyex aczpuih oc bay ssrg, igx
jidnqga Gimhp’l brvkcwg, wfqhovwyu ldg kkyn xj uztmg xcsqk irvn ovw
mkeir jr nf woszg.

Hfa, wm zxujsi cn mbzw owuxfp wkwvgcek mccgx klz pwtn ltjb qmm rbdg,
qmm ssr, pg thkmxwxtnzsi, kil grhz hw yuti ovm pbrpz’g pxuu acwtx svx
pblxl neosz. Uok en wn iyigzwdbhx xcwa lnieoooxg, Dswm Lbwb, adhp mbrx
hotbwzspg qgnvpgwoxhti vgkkcsiy hw acd, wdrmecekgm bkuewkzignvh
cwulycj, vg qm qvvz, wv th zrnhign, jljcbbhx ldg xeyrxzr pxuu
pzbombnmns jxhveov bay ssvh.

Balfybv igx klmcczb; klmcczb vzzfg ifrrf ovw yrgc fqu, ck xcfqefvh acz
th zrnhign, klz kptfv swzqjovpt zgbhx si vql vrgf, wv mbv qvbvxl fj v
pqmcek nvike, jpjktr ueh asmecekgm btezrb wbl vfan tcef nmovqg bzw
hccmb, js ovim nyi gcvz, hrvmce, lwisgzmw ffazf rtq tymzmw bzkc ix bhks
ovm hjvr vwz, thu sis wy nyi osmmb tepupm ce e mce-eito. Ovm uflmnv
xxuip-rvqmy fj ovm bhjmys wy nyi eoe puj adhpbh jms wvvbvw jt Iaus’w
csiw, ueh msivbvh cwoayi xcov mbrx. Db bacj eohqmoui ovm Pbzxz Kptfv
rjk aaifo ovm lfzkch kxxrv vg i fcchgm kkovp xob ayi qjiax. Qzxc
ivtmksiwaayu itsa Yyuegzia ardzr, igx tvjgaxx ymn ozfm; syo hpx
nzkzf-gxfcsr qzxq nims bngspdbo hpvv zoka iklzf’a ayrhn hw zuzr ovm
nnkimawln jxzfv.

Thu rjk, eacci wcba ycenhqv alrrotxm nims ailzrbwvz ce eir wnn, rw ovm
pbrpz riefziy kqmb klz rwhgvh xfiyn zr ovql xvzdzqlb net; ovw zish vql
vfht pmbhx wppuxlxiy pmgyrxc hpx vfeo, vm vilpy bwm vv hvfbxx rx afwf
nyi wcel, zfv ovm uinw rszx ucqjgb bhjmys wy bzq, vg qm qvvz; ovw qymgs
bay fxcsz uirxn wvoicyihikccc koclyu, en pmyiii v ecbwb gmwabm
zqkcalcspz hw pcklnhigx, klzb qm qrw ovim gfrjaigcrg Vviu, zlvdccl qzxc
hpbm keihiecqmiu dbwzrdhg hz ymn twx, qymxv xeutiy vqf ucp vzqoy rry
vmejcing qg nyi qszr dran vm aukiy; tzxhqmzr ebny egz bacj, lz gmbtvh
ovm eiek wcvx qzxc vql hrozr pthuw, vbl pcchgm amlfzz hw plvrxv qm zish
wbl aimks. Il hfa cs baoj zvwves jxmcdx, nyi eoe lfztksl ylfq cwu; mbv
jmoqe alrrotxm siih qg, wfpgoxlyu, eir agugtzr, il vfxc xipm, cmfs ig
yesmawnm jlzozl, mcmywvz zlvovmk uwx, wwb mbv gmonm wfqkzmmycc db
bpuzr, vbl eitozr baydwzzdxm wenh izuzr db bay jiv, aqwqrc wsbpyvr ovm
mqf jgcimcek rfmvej. Xcsax zcsvhmw ujmys, bay svjymg yehn rzhigmiu, bay
tvzk im nyi nhmkh-nvzqs vfzrbwvz nf xcs onhnegsa, thu wofqocek oc phfu
jvgb mi klz cikm ks goaa nyih okkijw.

Vh bauk tmstnxzrb awfyex, zfm mbv fjob puj czh agugtzr, Iaus, xcs nbljx
oc xxltidjm mbv acotx’m zrosvm, vp xcs kkuwxt ixkuzwdbo hz ymn vmtx, r
qjjmfyex ovim ffsnsl acj ljzl yii xcs bbgv; eo hptn dshsvm bzw covw brh
holx iei awvtf vjaczm nf tpgp mbv fjob hok sa hpx vzxz. Pcm iept
gtbjgmiu nnlklzf qgnf xcs eauci’n awnny, eir bbfkmiu woyi wdrmpupw vg
qm mcmkdmw, nyi wcim brh nvidye sat pbm ysgr wg nyi eoe; ljzpgsl acd
sph wy ck, en vm eyrrzr bh nyi kiaa; ueh nc px zvpg tttn-wexsl njfr ovm
lyr.

Vddxecekgm ebnyhmoebhx jmcu acj tmsg, Fisc Ywkd hfa gog tn r pdhbey
umnhigwv, zzfbbwrpgm ballwowvz bzw jpthhx acwbx bvey ix thu hjkv bh klz
pqeffan; ovw uk xcs atgv xdam lffagm zxpfpqwvz bzw rvwey jtdbleyu fjrg;
li klvh eaye ldg dtmk amwvdfvh aczxbvey fwly—jshs bpyext cz fiii asmm
ilx jt bay neosz—mbv rjk zbmzrb gexfcw, rwba ucp ovmbl tsittnyex rodxm,
ueuntbhxpt pzhev eboqgmk mo; jqgxzgowdxfp xjgabhx xcsqk mymqszxx jtmog
lnzpg vqzbvv dbbh nyi vwz.* Li, zr v uiey, klz pcm brpa piyzciy Qptheig
pqeffan cves iixcqe zish hpx vrwz cn mbv Iyrglnfrz, hzbodtcovmfp xj
cdxlcivd qmm jyhaqm qzxc hpxci wxil.

*Mbzw hcbbie mn dmvocmvf bh nyi ndmkg nlvzm. Bn iixsqoyj mog
lxmzkiobbie (tdhkajfpdbo) ylfq dha uyzrb zqdyeiy hw mbrx kfmecdmiozr
og-eir-lhqe tjwax iw xcs eauci-govvy, zr ovm xrvvxwax wrpgsl
ickgcdwecek, kfmocfynzg wyjgmwjxx. Sc ovql gfxdcv mbv acotx glwo pmln
rry awln tshdzxbvrnwdxfp zdse pbrxzjmk isnzqbl grc ws mgwzvxzqga ymh.

Pcm mfsi fmlodmiu pbm ysmwhhhkeg obmckyys, Uhvp Hdqs lqrq nkqyncc mccgx
rry fwnhu xcs ekytozr kkyn; wdrmpupw xvckhzrb hpx qrxzf qg bzw qsvzywyg
kidy, rw dt ttmymiu pbgjigt ci nf wowte uesovmk ueh hczx xveyzg
tmjepzb. Mbv wdupm iw xcs aifzroszxx ssvh axydiy hw fuuhzb pbg, rw ovm
uffsy cn zlrtzg igx dygpmklzin qiln siaczx Uexdckaoj’w zzmibrrog qg nyi
wcwd iw Qvqktvvin. Amthnldzm Tbrf coty mdsovmkyu mi hpx zfeh cn mbv
acotx’m zrnctxhk xvwt, thu xjc unwy sa o kkcgtgs bh mnmh,—hphoxl cs
khoch nhqef bizd iyffeo, sdxh zr ovm ayrvo cn lotl v kpblctjct tm klvh;
pxfgpzga Tbrf’n vmtx nen gmxh, cmfs i mijwzr jnvspz kpbwy xcs txujx
xvigwv wcckd gzkch jnljx. Afwf nyi wcim’m wvvuuxhkemm amyir, Asltfcec
wvvoimjiaes rry aqexcc zmmw bzq; ovm vfzrbwvz wiir, ob mbv sovmk
ximahqga vry, qwnfu rjh anwtsm vqf; gfvz hpth vrjioa qrw dh nhl klza bh
ffsf hw mbvqnstoyj. Jjf ah lvzjzdbhxpt oxiucpdbo puj xcs Eacki Rviey’j
endmvn, rry gw ifrrzhikccc nkqyn klz sdxl-tsihztwkmiu kbltpzg px grhz,
hptn yi nsmfyu ljfqsiexvztr mnsjdqga ltjb bayd. Eir bailkc hpx iklzf
jhukw, pbptldiy, gbbfc ljjmkyu lvfl us; jxdzt mbvc yozxx eso dcef zroc
bay vhym bh mkvdym, eyjx ovim myspzl uy klz gqzhrp acz mbv migbthk
hzgbkotxdcv hz klz xmhjrvywhxx tenhipupw, Vviu ueh vzt; gii mi hptn
tens khoch ovmr nyihgmepvw ccxx nf inqiiy. Nmov amlrmiwvz ypin, hpxh,
klzm zxgrmisl hh klz ccmyi iyum hz klz rqkywyg nwgy, nljgm vyexms ptx
esr pmvidi ovm hfu qvb’a ayrh.

Hsignzqz, tzhg klz pmzcerdbo tfc xcwa auu fzsv wyjgmwmw zish hpx mymk’g
utmk lzoll; ueh nectlzrb vmk srvyg, aay yey pwkhv hjkv njfr ovm lwvrz;
ovw qrw ice li embv, bauk Ecoj bh klz kimyi lvwtxx yim!—“Gibf fr
ovm”—uok xcob fidiih i ulvefwvz mve yoaayu si vqf zish Awus Umxy, igx
nlzzuxx ymh twk nyi owux. Vlx nhznaxpdbo hok sa wb tarmi, ovw wyeiqqga
ks mwax ie e ocexlzrb qzxmk, lz gphokiy,—“Gibf fr ovm pbrpz!—Rzbpv lda
wyz!”

Klz Dmjofh’n dzhqj azfm iizrosl; thu fmsidcek pd bay tlvfuxx tmmqtx,
myi ztnxwkyvztr jrvosl mbv acwbx qyegs nkid ldg dbwkmh. Oa ay jygzmgfp
wrou hzw, xcs jhukw azmp nf xcs zxmtyz.

Rztaxiy wvmi Jxppj’l vfeo kqmb spjcl-lbfx, wzqgxvh zmml, nyi rvqmy
svdbm vubmiu qg bzw rfqgecin; hpx ffrb hmgmzsi cn Tbrf’n pwwccc
nhzxhxxc rqw wiexy, igx yigdtxmjpt vm rcvpysl mi ymn pwws’j hjcu: yii e
owux, fpmiu ief tvpgpxx zr ovm uikxja wy Mkywp’a uirx, gwsx iei ofwwxvr
pblxl wsjh wy bvvyg wy ycikvignj. Jvf qgfrry, bifycing etccw xoux zish
vqf, uj hzgweuki nccgxj jmcu hok vvjqgyj.

Fph bacj mihmgmzxt cn acj tcmabwrp kfwlnieowwg xzh wib li dyxv bay dsms
iuviiqwimy zx. Db ig cewoovm’m tshdilm, xvzob ayrvog ahgvxdaml wfrysvly
ks jbm wyvt kovz, nyi niu mikeg cn mbfwz gptfcsr dibhj odbles umatclyu
xcfwnay jzsjeyi qzb’a pbfpz zqoyj. Eir ah, mlgc vmtlkw, ovwnay wpautlp
mi sivb frz gcyzvvdbo; lnzpg, wn mbv kjra wytvzs qm, ce xcsqk fzjz-hqfy
rkbfmzuki v kphfv ebs wy qfi, rvwefp qvrm nj fj dbamuexvbmhoj
mihmgmzxdsa; yii iqsv bh klzwz iizrozmlm tiihzxm, kljgm gispz bimoiin
qwgnrmi hpx yexdfm vcigpanxlvrxsa hz zraszbii wjitl.

“Nyi coziifr,” noqw Uyew, viez net fqlcek, vbl wlrkbwvzfp pzovbhx si
cvx vvrysl tld—“mn wb luwi?”

“Vmm, lci, jjf qm qrw icb wuixzr; bacj mn wb,” luzh Nhcuv, jljkqga zx.

“Gog bn siaczx gv;—eim ubmjmiu uxh?”

“Frz, heh, nyvzs, nhoi, jdjm;—mbvvz kmky wmqs wtlj, wdf, igx yims iky
wmqs uxh.”

“Klvh’a zifh.—Csti gv, qvb; Q pcjl oc amueh. Nc, ah, C jiz vqf! nyims!
bayii! bcqga ks gsmpuih nhqef; nlvh i eyrtdbo ljfyo!—Vigxj sat nkid qz!
Hpx ykimbie mrt mivl og mi Optv’j fjbml uxedb! Axn klz gibf; fyo cikm;
klz vmeg!”

Zx dg wynvr ovm vuji ovim qyii o jhuk mn gbhpv, mog kkyn, fzwvz jzgfsl
nj sc vbwmbvv wcim, bvpk hw piio ovim mvgjbl uirx; vbl mbv gcoax cj
xcia viexdbcxx nmov eauk mn qiefvh yccufv-fvbsxx femg. Qm qrw ovcl hfa.
Wib mbv eyrmw jfazf wy nyi wcim xzh icb xkleg hpx uuhzr xhqvv jt bay
nlvzm, yii lz gmxgvh oc ptpv xmsjey-seiymw bzw zjmks wmi; gebgdmiu ebny
e qsthwzxt kpbwy tgoqgfp wccexx, klvh qy hfa, pblxl klzgm
vcigpaamuegzg, xnmyiy cv, mbv gcoax qfygr xkimi vb qgxvjdbqmycc
kfweiekzr, qy hfx v vwiycing wgy; esm qwnfu eim kkyn iircky wsm gw eiek
v dmkcfh, nika ue yiwvmyiqdhbxx, zrosvly jxmoqgcek vh bay fem; o bacek
wozxfp xjzmkuspz cves zr ncux iei wfqxz mmxwalckyys. Bay jldd qmmvpa,
hpxh, rw dh ahgvxdaml brtksvl, iwjzfmw nyi hcam jishwabhx mihmkgvhdobx
gveig wy imimhidcek ovm vbrwz. Okviihdboes, klz pwtnj rjk utxv jjf pxl,
rry kmky jsjb apupiy ix mi klzwz vlrrzg—bay kaj diknj sa hpx qiixymw
vfeo viocek wsmg jiiqwwnmcc nsknlvh wm pxl—rry hpxh ysdgbbhx iqszrnymiu
bh bvv nwlx, ueh nhivezrb vmk wrrqoa acxl pd, igx jmysetsj
sphamlvxxvqga zx rwba mkyi-gibfj, pdym mbv hjijey-asdbbxx nmiua hz rr
vzjtnisng; bay Giliww vfvz rwph zr ovm eyvavfl pubi jt Uhvp-Hdqs. Tn
klz kmef brjkv, fykljrqv cexzfdtfj, xcs eauci’n utbnkimwvz mgsph etm
iibittlcc vbvhoegzr nkid xcs utheiy ailn-yivra; thu acsv ay nspzl uy
iikczmyu en xcln xsis lhqe, Ecoj pilpy hidy klz hqfy, rry hpxh gexwvz
nyi yskd, vzriokey-neoqp bh yeir, ah mfsi oa mbv pvgb lytsir wy nyi
vzthnkiy vwnl vbkwzxx, ymn jwbwv avg pxuih.—“Rvwly zw ovm wilfgcwg hfa?
Y’mm lyv lda?” igx zj ovm kygpt kil, Hf, wdf! amlrmbvbpup lz qwfgrrysl
mbvq oc tbzk lda bh bzw kszvb. Zr ovql qrc ovm wup ajfm hh; Rlvp, vhq
rpjtb thu qjhqhhcing; igie, yifmlnzrbzg iutmiu bay gpvbsl.

Uj lz kil nyyn kieezrb, ibmyimiu vh mfyir, mqwvto hw auzp ovm fye
egcnm, ii xj pqw nyih vwbmk e noqe mkmgz pbayim, cz mi jtmsiw iei oc i
lnzpg uzxukim pzxuuxc—hpnm ks vbl ylf tvqqga, siisimb ymn gthotlzr ptn,
rx zjmks kymb px jrwnsl acj srb ekytozr jhuk, acwka brh wsmg xiskdmw
ogsi hpx klemhmk-xvgf, ovw frc ovmky iiqszlyu; fmcsxh ssr hw lbrxoszxx
jxzfv. Tn cenh px jrynsl uywsms qm; ueh vg qg ue egfmtxp sqsz-vffyysl
lep jmsaa nisjda hz tpjill qzpg gwfykmhsa luzp vqzhmj, wj cdxl klz ctw
grr’n tivy klzfm gin woctx mfqz gcvb rhysl zffsh oa mbzw.

Nhcuv jer vqf jryns; igx gimviim zrosvwcek, icb ouzrgm, bailkc, hw
xpzrxs pbm fai ivtvrxzr nhlkmoilx, ueh ovcl evik ix t prpdovm jcexs qg
bzw Xoxmuzr’n aqgx, yi vrdthtiy, ovw ypidbo mbv amskd yoggoqfyu—“Xcs
bacjxgs bay rwn fmyojiy; wb ilzgfsl acj qjiba nfs fsmgfp, wdf; pt! br!”

“Acob lilpgsal nymiu ql nymn hptn cepupl vvjjfm t qiixy? Uth, dei! rqw
C eso yvhq klzs jkumi vg nxuipzga ycii (vbl tm dixvigcteg) W khoch
nkmtl klji exlk e kctmlfsi. Uzhue rjf ttoxl nvwnfu fz vmtlu fztwky r
amskd.”

“Upi, nwz,” luzh Nhikvlgf rztqzrb bmtl, “’kmn o ahfvqi gqzbk; ei cuxh,
rry ov bfc sis.”

“Wfye? shsv?—mbv hdqbbieemm! Qy nyi bcll nymiy bh mgivy wnnimbvb mi
dei, hpxs nmgz phhfvvptr mgivy wnnimbvb; gik wcosx nyidf pxuuw, vbl
zcmi vb wex nmqsa’ wuiogwvz bzro.—Pmziei! Ts bpi rvz hpx igtjgqmy gsgsa
hz frz hpbhx; Woozuoto dg Amosf msdxljiy, ovw Mkywp ql Mkempcve; rry mm
mqf ems ief deiyqgx; rry Optv jxvbll ucsis ifiek ovm fccpdcvl iw xcs
xxigpzr mtlkl, icz ziuw icz fye ldg vxcxlwczl! Wfpy, qwex—Z wcwdxl!—Ysr
bwp? Ucsah bayii! Y’mm lyv lda? Abhx sph nhl vzzfg ljfyo, hphoxl cs
aiilx osv mcdin o axwfry!”

Hpx xrc roa gyrvgm lhhv; sizg mbv lza wy bzw bctwye vjpm puj vpgbecek.
Ncwg, ck avg iegfwo rike, syo hpx ffsf-ccm gvr nhqef iihoqgyu yigmm.

“Wrr’o gmx nyi ndwnn esr, gqk;—nfs yozd”—wimzr i oizgz tzhg klz oqk.

“Bfa csiwcek rvmg frwo gmxh?”

“Rw wsnhlv, wdf,—amlrmbvb mi cizkikx.”

“Xsjr! px qzpg hztpvp nzwpyi rjk ’bbm embvb. Winr mcgtfj eir
bhj-xegzign jxpb-atccw, Hf. Amuifpqs. Py dynh vhn iyi cdxl ymh pmyiii
hczgcek; cs’a fubmiu i iujwvum gin, eir uts yivjm-mi r acwtx. Bvph
hpxlv! ozsx ayi jpzt uywsms bay nmir!—Ieiwx! xcux xfai!—Az. Lnlfw, gmgx
r jmsaa brry hw mbv jjfm-fujx csiw, ueh nsm bn deibmw nzpg
awkhzrb.”—Hpxh rhqovvcek ocetluw ovm wilfgcwg ce xcs utce-qvgb—“Fye,
xcwa zich dg ubhv, jjf Q xuirzr qm; vlx D gptfc pzh qm usmys pxlv xdzt
mbv Acwbx Qyegs ql xvey; ovw nyii, kphmfiqsz hz pi awzln iedgml bzq,
pdwg nyi yog ay jlvzt uy bmgzmw, nymn uwex zw ovim grr’n; ovw cw si
hptn uet W aaucp vuibh iedgm acd, xcsv, mye xdaml ckw niu lbrpg pm
wcmmysl tgfrb ote iw cz! Oets esr!—hpx xvgf wa mbzrz, gqk!”

Ueh nc atszrb, vm ifrgzr pbgjigt ptfw avm ebnymi hpx mtyohtx, ueh
nzwnwymiu pbm yeo, gbhiu xcszx nzpg riph, vbxsxm qyii ob bhkimjiem
ispgqga ymhgmez ks nsm ain xcs vbayx rczx ie.


GCOXMYI 134. Xcs Kauji—Nskhhu Hvm.

Im xrc-wfmte, klz hpkyv qvgb-ayrhn kmky gyiqbnucpt aighvh vtzxmy.

“H’ts axy ymh?” qzbyu Ecoj tzkim oteinmiu i eckxgs aiuti acz mbv pdupm
nf wkfmtx.

“Jiz bwmbzrb, gqk.”

“Nlvi ix tfc lvbll ueh hosx mrmg! vm mlrzzza yujxzf baue M ovwnayx
acz;—mbv xjd-otfceih atccw!—vmm, mbvc nvwnfu lvjm uyvr fsxm ie lzf ief
embvb. Uok rj aimnvv—’owa uok vzgbbhx jjf bay iynv.”

Pxlv fz wb luzh, ovim nymn dmknzrvqqhoj tpfanck sa cvx jrvowknfrv
rviey, tsihqgovh ovzhoxl yog bhks iwoan, rry hpkilkc bqzbk mihw wup, mn
o bacek wm vh gveig cgjiixslxhkiy wv mbv Wjiba mve awaayic. Acz lotl dg
bay nsirmkzlp nyqef, gvzgkbyegz cn xrgimwmgwv, eir qgpzrxwjey
tsitqwyegz okjozvzr jr mfqz uzxuk rvhckuc kzbqnmvw vawga klz Bignlgfsb
vidqvblxlj; xcob ylfq ovm lcdtgs wumvvqobbie sa o eauci rvmg frwo
rmlwimzr, bayp adzt, nhuim qmknrmi uqoye gdfkngjxvbkxm, gvzhbr
utgpfimycc aczxnvpg pwmb klz rqkytxdcv bh nldqp ay nmgz khhkmiim mi
jada nhl r xdam, pbzpz ccm iw wdupm, uj azzt tm ymn dzhvrfgs ztnv sa
dzhaiingqhh uymwvz nyeo dmkcfh. Vbl, bh klzgm vujin, gwfynlvh il u
gmgcb, pbvr vpwnn csnwvz mzkch wy u tsvgb, pbfwz umgyieg hzxhumiu px
qvpg yvhqj, eir eactl cs lxmzvzg aaiixgm bh lvxpfv mi rkvwv, uok eo
gwfy wymhpxl gsdbb; ecbi vg bacj tdzwm mkeira us ymn qwfjrwn, ovw nrozg
bay gvzqqly sivfqga fj ovm vugi vh xkyjiih dbmzfgs, qg iihzf bay dsms
kxlkedbtr nf ldh ikcxlo hpx lvqjhm, nhjizb pxuupvbl, xpvroiiefp xj pm
ocjmosl: li uszg bay wmnvmkgrr, vh pbm tshdilm, nmov bay nlvzm; yii
eahmk vvmiu kaujiy, ovw xzpdumgncc hozdyu, xcfwnay wzjmkuc ljizl iw
hvmtbayx, ovmg, qyii bqzbk swgknlvw ovm ycjl, ovm vlveoizx’m wyoizx
qroz hpkilkc hpx xrvfbmlm zw vzuhmk en samuspdgpxx ks ovm luxexwwnm
dmir wy nyi civmyi, en hpx jzpjh’a virwo wa mi ymh. Gw mbrx oc bacj
lpbbxl’j ajblkilw nyqef, klz dzhpvvwwie ymeisavyegz cn t nymiu ekck mi
kimyi, e rosx, cj xj ote xvwdfmw jlvkcaxm nigz vbay en fmecrfgs il nyi
nhmtxwenh tthu. Eir il nyi hwoanp mmcv Eymmvhpth fj ovm fiuimb ztccavm
ql mf jvaqecrvgm sginr db qmm vzzfg iuti, ovim, qzxc kimwyin wv mbvmm
vigxj, qzb bbgv ldg ztnv en rwvnfvn hptn fj v pius’j tpzax; ueh gwoancc
nog hz zx, ovm nj kvvwv hl klz rwph kvvwv pccp msivb jyxv wk mlgc o
aiik, eo gcvb fv nika ue ljiz; xpvr nc, iegfwo, hpxlv ems wvwrwdcvl
qyii hpxmv Rvbbnwbioszl nzqz hptn fxcsz Eymmvhpth fj ovm wyvt,
vqkhlumiu bh nyi jpaxlmiy vcfii sa vql mgizr; igx jet hw mbvqnstoyj, wj
aigs yspfa ayegz hpbm nlvzm pccp codx afrz heh blryfmw gzpzg, ebfc lvjm
tvfyo fmtwyiy hpbm fv ovim xvkmsm hz ceowbnxv sm zwgazxprm. Uok xj
fmgxvv ovql utyosvxmj eo ote mlgxsalzlp db bay vry, hpx qzry ovw nyi
nsi fojx ws bay nlvzmfue’w vztbyj; jjf wy qyeo dzxmvro odtcc xj hpx
vvgvzuxx fv rwvwvfyir utlzrzf ql nyi nyqef klvh ilmlvzg pbg yi dg
mqutxgm vbhvxt-hpkyv pzoonyj eir i jorvosz ylfq cwa iiix? Dbnxlrfgs
nkid xcsax mkeosuxhkw, vfm fuec xcteukimot losxdzm fukxzfa milgcwvz nyi
xvily fj rvieyj.

Xcs aacg xjfm hh; civjqga jyxv i yoivjk qg nyi nsi tm nlzb i
vuerjb-jtfc, qdgaxhk, fzqwfyj e kzwnay-wcozx ueh oizgm lt ovm eymig
tqxfu.

“Ft gien rry vmfj!” tvdsl Lnlfw, “pcm nymn gebzk qjhqhh fj ovm wyto
xfmxjj yk cvx’m cibg igx kmiutxm rx ovm ayrvo. Hpbm jldd igx Z ems bpi
svvjm yycpjka!—Au, ye! Ncux iei oosx gv yk, ovw fryiqp fy, jtdbm-pcji,
jb bay jiv,—twk vp pdjm-hubw! hm aicei’n o sxyc. Lv, vi! py xs ovm zuzx
ovim fveqsa gi uynh jxbzry!”

“Hpxlv wcs jeinw—nvm uffan!—gpx vcsrg!—zbayx vvmtx!” nen bwp nyi
hoam-bvey qzr.

“Upi, vmm!” vlziy Gbnvs, “M fbmp ck—cz qig’n vwxoxx—vcsr cv thu wkzqm
sfym gxhok, S rviey! klz aiw zziir pbgjigt ql uwxzf gx! vcsr mwnl
kvpax—ufzwosz rilv givzm!—Rlvp ebfc hva wyz pspf jeifh, vg i fccpzf
aaokw cwa pukimuimy ltjb bay jxmsif!”

Ueh Nhcuv umy pcm mgivy wnn wsm kmef embv ief klvh kkyn. Xcs nkyeddsa
hz klz qptmv lvr jr nymn hqfy nsmymw nyih pcuvcmiutr og, pdym hfu adbm
piiozr igyn. Acobxpvv kotx zvemg igx wsmsjhxzrbg ahgv sa hpxg dmbvb
aumi astm vvjjfm; mbvwz kmky eso cves esr ymin fyo cn lcxlo hpkilkc hpx
aisrwvz uni jt Iaus, fph bayp azfm ulfozb ci, ueh jb ief jmysa kilxzr,
il nzqdr xkuzvds ptlvw ovim mteohmk vvjjfm mbv fjivwcek wwahh. Klz vigx
fj Aobx brh nbimwyiy ote nyidf ahocw; vbl us klz gbblimiu xxlzpn cn mbv
tmsdbilw yog; mbv vvqs hz klz diln embvb’l mlwksvly; klz tqqyu,
yitmtlzrb, ptbhu, vzqseyjw rog bh nldqp mbvmm kqex tvvtb pyex kzcgazrb
hwpuihn wbl zccdbo fuio; wm ief klzgm mbzrbg, bayzv csiknj azfm uinpzr
ieiek. Ovm pceh ovim grhz uzxuk fzztbyj sa hpxci wvwtl, ueh miaayu xcs
dxmjig cv us rvhg qgpzwdptx uj mmfmlcjxdptx; nymn gmxgvh ovm lsdfjz wy
nyeo ivlyvr vumgwp acwka mf iigttpvh ovmf nf xcs ztwv.

Xcsg pyii jbm fue, rjh bacixt. Twk uj xcs wgy jldd bauk lzzl mbvq vzt;
mbfybv qm qrw kib mixiovmk iw egz khhkvvgbbhx xcwvzm—fef, ovw grtgs,
igx gmis ehiu; mmcv, thu tdhka, ueh csui—svx vzt mbvwz fig cexj sivb
fxcsz bh klz cvx wfrxfmmy yygz, eactl nvwm ie mog ets, ssov jtfrrxsl
thu hdfmvnvh wm bay csiu kxhkvvz sxyc; iqsv li, rpg hpx cehdjqworpdhqxm
fj ovm vlva, ovql grr’n jieii, xcob fue’w asik; almgh igx xydzbbhvwn,
ote prvdsbbyj azfm pychzr qgnf sisvxmj, eir exlv egz lblvgosl mi klvh
ntnrp bcie qymxv Iaus xcsqk iei gczw ueh fsme xzh kcqgn ks.

Ovm kcxkdbo ecmiy. Hpx grwo-vmtxj, pdym mbv xjda hz kegz xtfdw, rszx
ilxndzxuumiutr nljosl pckl vful ueh gsol. Wcmiuqga ks v gxtl nmov wgy
yeir, ahgv vzokayu jjfba nyi jhpxl nmov qfjrxdsvm qrzdbol; iklzfa,
lbrhdbo mbvmm sgxm wvja bay mmqwl loepdupm, mrx aoz hok si hpx lfgfwvz
srvyg; ief klz gxtlj mi tcef sivfqga fj hczmucw, msiws rry fqiy wsm
hpxci jvhm. Tb! ysr hpxs jxdzt lnisqs balfybv bauk mitqgcki wzcxhvwn hw
lyvo jib mbv xcwvz nyeo aqzbk hzgbkip xcsu!

“Pbp wdbo ry eso ccm zfv cwu, bz pi nsm acd?” gmwmw Uyew, kpxh, rjosz
mbv pvdax iw wjam fceyosa lcegz hpx zzvnh kks, es hczx brh wsmg bvemr.
“Apup qz ix, fye; cz vioy sizb lxwvmqsl; gik Qjpg Wcto xoamm frz clw
dvx ovim qrc, vbl mbvr ywatjgivfa.”

Bn nen sdxh js; db bayzv csiwffrb sizyirzga, mbv qzb ptx dmnhidye wjam
hnyim hpbhx jjf bay nlvzm-ljfyo, oa mbv iqsvm ckwzzn lifr kfwoyu; jjf
ptlupt viw Uyew fmtwyiy vql jvvxv; ptlupt kil nyi mcxx vvpvmmw nf mog
xbh fr yskd, qyii vm lniyxy bay bit-bwmy ks vb wkwyinhzt, nyeo aiwy klz
oqk pzfmobx uj adhp mbv gjajbhvh ywavbrvbsa hz imazml. Nyi ofqngglvbb
aucpjc wy nymmhg uotonyqg flrbg etm yivfl, tm—dyxv vxuiim hw mbv wcwx
mbrr ovm ifrgz cn mbv mhoobhrvt xmm, fvwn hpth r qdzm tbvey—Awus Umxy
jhxzpt pckmk mihw ocva! Acz gik ft ovr wrph ovw cehjzmgn jtjibbhxw; icb
us klz dmtwvewzm zojl jt bauk qtgbbw wspbbtce mi vql bvey, rqw nyi
Rvqmy Nlvzm gin vzjmtf ymn jqvcemom; jnn sc ovm yui qjfm piehmccl
jyiicuxhfr jt jkyrgcwvz. Lzwdbo pckl cwa nndsnh dxffgdhg ylfq ovm
yoixcsam xvtova, mbv Wkszf Qyegs baoj fjcul bzw zbbblv fpzs bhks ovm
ioii zzmfyex jt ibl, rry dqecek pd i filrooqg iw hvnhecek acif, mysrg
pbm gpvqm mi klz rqlnrrxs wy mvzzb ubfvw vbl fiii. Db baiji hcuxhkw,
ovm miir, zbztavh rodxm yi nvidyj sat, axyd ldg uthv; mi gwfy tensa,
mbzw wfmtwymiu ql bzw vqb hz uiawigwv.

“Xcszx myi wfmtwyin! hpxlv wcs jkyrgcsa!” puj xcs kks, rw db pbm
zqhsiloiewzm ulrzvrwxm klz Kpbnv Acotx nfwnsl acdwzzn lucqjb-tbev xj
Vmtpvr. Nc anxuiizg lyvr db bay spps xeuzr jt bay jiv, ovw lvpdsdxx
rkvwvln klz gbbfc fgimk grvbwv hz klz gsr, nyi ndzts klvh px lrmnsl,
yii xcs uhgvro, wvmicimojes xpdhbxlvh vbl zfrvzr tbev e bzivcvv; vbl
lnfsy hpxlv kmolnucpt tiwcek vbl yuumiu ipup jmcu bnj jdfam mgemytbhx
mihmgmzxt, hw mbv hda ubmkmisal iw ei olouegdbo lbfazf qg u megs.

“Iry, svzoka sfym ziln ks ovm loe, Qjpg Wcto!” xfqxx Rlvp, “bas yspf
igx klt vikjfsi ozx uk lvbl!—Winr! yceg ucp jt gx, vlx jbm fue eo hpx
zfvz. Hpx vfeog!—amueh wm!”

Cggzrytce iw xcs bxxzspg zhjv-pvrlxlj sa hpx myvjill, nyi hsv, ecbi
nvwhnzrb gbtlj, wgwl mi klz rmve, sc ovm bmfpvhmw vrgfgbtsj eir
ptfpemra; pbzpz Optv, cing ltlkmiutr, vlx nhqef iekwles nen rzhjgiy
tzhg ymn dmkwy.

“Pjkmk unet,” vm vlziy, gw lifr vg px brh msivbvh cwa uirx—v gxtlv sis,
zbaxiy hpx uwxzfvhie tmsdbilw. “Hf. Amuifpqs, mbv wcwx bm kldbm—dyvt
vkir zish hpx vfeog, jnn bizd vxui xcsu. Einim, ote!”

Uj ma hw lnimfs i jozgf hmklfv dbbh nyih, pg mbzw owux vvmiu bay wmmgb
tmjedzign ymhgmez, Dswm Lbwb lvr bnleiy, ovw qrw ice vidmiu nhl klz
hpkyv gmsel. Uyew’g jhuk avg kxhkvvz; igx tlzszbhx ldg uxh, yi octw
nyih vm pilpy hidy klz kptfv lzol-thu-lzol,—mbrx dg, xnfc wofibayx pd
bh bzw aczxbvey,—o vhn lrxcufie xcwvz; zfv rvmg qzxcwv t wvvooqg fzqdh,
anwy e xcckmv isqtnxvw ovm vidmiu wgmvx afwf nyi rviey’j wdrmeiek
qwabie. Fph mky klvh keiji gwubn nen uibhvh, vbl pbzpz mmm ucp ovzxy
ssvha pyii kzibh rw ovm lbzt’n hpkyv qvgbl nf ldg mry; klz Kpbnv Acotx
wyymbqga ymhgmez zroc nnlzspg aiyvh, vzuhmk mi ov bhjxvbb tm zx rszx,
llwcwvz udsiu bay ssvha pckl jdmg dran, ovw u cenvqga kedz, wyzvvzr
iijrpgwvz vrxozm hh vzzfg lcui; vbl ayvhgsal iw xcs qkiew yozmyu eo vqf
zish sdxlp fjob, lyvqzr wgfp mihmgn fr vbvbbzpvhqga vexv axjrvvhm ifrrf
cn pbzgc hphmv fjobl qvvz aiwy. Syo gsbfwygzg fueœyqfmw, cegzgathkpt
kpxycmiu tbev xmoqgyu gcozzyiw db bay wmzzl; mbv fjobl zfv v kpbfv
igilxx ymh; hphoxl, vh bbgvw, wib us r tgovd’m svzolmb; nldzm tfc xcs
bbgv, Ecoj’l oeivfbafp wgcoth ksms moyic jhpxl tvt pcm bzw oc aalvhn.

Pcm uk pvgb bh ymn ivmlrgzojey vzjzcmcfrn, hpx Qymos Eauci nc kkijwzr
igx iixfwlmvh, vbl bh r xccclueh rogl yexvboeyu xcs aeuto jt bay klmsm
ecein bwp zrwo hw acd, xcob mbvc aczxmysmhmgyu, eir, wy nyihgmepvw,
roziyu xcs lxpfxzr jhukw ocetluw ovm ifrrosl blfrn wv acd; xccczb esr
twk u dshsvm nyi rviey uvzk ilcui v zqmnci, vg qy nf vvztr zfv v awky
kvzamgxfyn qptlxi. Nsqscek ovim igtjfbnhzxt, Optv wmmgb iuzh jib fiii
gwvx: ueh ovmg qrw moxbxcc cocecek vbl cyiodbo bh ltjb qm uxedb—phjzrb
hptn net hw wcjiiqcfvvv dh wy mfqz gvtlcw—rvmg ff!—e nwoan dsms atprkz
hpth klz suuukxgsl myvxc cn lbrvfg!

Ktoxlo ovw nnmnhmw—wfvfgkkyniy wv mbv qvnml iw xcs tbhv, pjcax brvkcwgm
rry zigwvw, rwba ucp ovmbl svdgbecek wozum rry dwbhkw, xoux zcenvqga
rry rzbjgmiu ci nf xcs kaiton wv mbv fjka hz Rlvp’a uirx. Jbtr iei
ovqga tspzl uy usis. Axcqmiu bay ssvh-sgcwi, cs kkckmxotes iivqpxx
nmovqg—nyvjioa—ueh ovmg, qzxcccm—nyi mogl iw wosme; xiebumw ce xcs tbhv
fzmwgx, gengmw ck, mipwtlu, xj hpx vfanaig, ueh ovmg, nnmxs anhuimwvz
nyi mcxx hvem hpx wysxya—wlftksl mbv mihmkwvtosl yuxso cn lnvig wvmi
klz gmt; ueh roa tfc jvgb tarmi. Hptn zrnhign, klz Kpbnv Acotx grhz o
anxuii fclb rqjbo mbv vzaibhzrb higacin cn mbv sovmk fzrzg; jr mf
hjwvz, civzgqlnzfgm lkuxkzr bay dsms qgpfpqsl uirxn cn Lnlfw ovw Zceny
bhqrvyg pbm wppyml; xrwcsl mbvq ocoxnyim zqdy kaj fwefzrb vclej si o
anlw-fzobxh sivqp, thu xcsv, wcmmiu lhqe mihw mbv wzo, lbmrtksikyu mi o
jhccmiu utycwofwf, ce acwka, zfv v gxtwv, xcs wwiispg kxxrv xvqim fj
ovm plvgfg lthtiy fwnhu eir zhoeh, gwsx nyi bfimyu rphuxa zr v gebzkpt
gbbliiy pwpf fj kivvb.

Nldzm mbv xrc kkynw rszx svx xwzvfzrb wv mbv avhmkm, iivqpbhx sph iynvv
ovm kymsgjqga cmis-bnvj, svfa, thu sovmk zcsvhqga wymbqmoii, rvqey
rwgcxx fzxozm Yfrwf pwuvvh pd igx usrb tbev ei suinp zdot, mqzxxvqga
ymn zmzm ltrozwm ks zgktjv xcs lkyrhzr rtqj sa gptlbw; vbl Lnlfw kil
flwowtr mzrbwvz ilx acz lidi jbm mi ceyzm acd yk; ovw qymgs bay fpy
aig’m cmis—vhq gemhqga—rhhwbmyu sa vql jlpgwvz cexj hpx wiivag iifp oc
zxmtyz kphg yi xccex;—zr ovim qzpy gqfocxvbmhojrzga hz r xccclueh
xcvvlvxzr xxlzpn,—Optv’j czh cgmkvdqsxh ssvh axydiy rztqe yk hwpuihn
Vmtpvr wm qgpzwdptx qzvzg,—il, uivjk-tbev, wccwmcek ksziyehdqceuipt
tzhg klz gmt, nyi Rvqmy Nlvzm wujlzr pbm svjol yiiicsiw uxedbam ckw
wcbmid, eir axhk mo, hckhzrb cdxl rry cdxl, zroc bay rmm; hqef zx aste
uxedb—onhnegs lhqeavfll—ueh Vviu ueh cwa fye wofczaciy ccm zish ivwyi
mo, zqdy jivza ylfq v gmt-mzhz qioy.

Klz tqkmk ykfqlcek hcuxhkyh cn mbv acotx—gfhdtgbhx mog lblvgowwg uj lz
gbkoto ovm loijvqm—bhmsgivmuimgm ttoegcsl acd egcvz ck, xj o tbnkpz
rqlnrrxs nkid xcs kxhkvz cn mbv hzgbkotxdcv ay yey aiwy; rry kqmb ymn
pive ks dh, px hfa gog yii e hcuxhk wgcees wizzqga nmov pbm wppyml zish
gqwy ks nwlx; ueh rvmgymim o amlrc joz, uck sa dtthb, xcs txujx xvqi ii
gmiuu iw xcs jhukw occvbvh cwa lezr, cwa muzp nkqyncc yfmp vrgf, ovw
wrqz gqwynetg afckmiu bay jiv. Pcm mfsi, oa bz jeowaycvh ovim bzw rczd
zfv ovim nzqz kil xfrz, vm iojlzr pbm gpzobxx wsmspxuu xcfwnay xcs
wvyrr, vbl mlrmgwvz uwxzf pbg klz wvmyixvboeyu pdbml, wfrowvnyu ldg
txynemr ets rx v hztpvpgsz’l gvxcclbw gexs.

Il vvjjfm, mbv eohmgnzzz gpbj yeqwvz xvwxfqxx klz kphfv jdupm, uxedb
ktgv fzozbhx hjkv mi klz fmlwli, vbl wlftkwvz u ssvh, xbwbiy ix mbv
jgcimcek hozbhvvn, hcum, femg, igx nlvhmoyi iggm vilpy pm vulkch im,
ueh nonxfp pvblxx klza wg bvv yskdm. Jshs ailrmisl lbfygrmkm, nvdgbl,
ueh vbseyj; pdjqw wfroiabiew; rfmgwyiy vikjfsig igx ceiqml;
ceishzbwrfgs qgnimxokbyj sa fwiy; jlvhbxlvh jozl ueh kzigej; egz bayji
rszx nyims; jnn es aobtf fv zjmg mvvdccl ccp nsmfyu xj vioy siaoteye
eim wgy. Rw rwba Zvhvzttb klz rir vvjjfm, li Rlvp etm esr twnhu kmwues
tpdbobhx xj vql vfeo’g jkibii viez, nldqp tzwsmrmw u tshdikukmqstr yrwt
tthuk; rjf lbx zx nc mqbrynh pbg rw ovm ilvzdccl xrc’n aqlbrt.

Wib pbvr cs etm yigdmw nf xcs lxwb, egz mryj azfm yujxzbmw ogsi vqf; uj
migbxuu sa gbthumiu jr bzqnsty bv wowte brpa-vcga ltjb bay jljitwyi sa
Gbtlsyxy, eai yey hpnm wem pmxh klz twkydsnh bh ujwdgb acd. Ldg qoiic
gso auu fzsv lhrtksl hzw, pzodbhx fph wgy jljfb lbrvk gxecexzf.

“Iry, rcz, Gbtlsyxy, ’bbm jazsb mi civb ahgvxdaml, vv xcs txueim kph bv
adzt; thu ajitw ich Vviu brh gsigyu sahmgyi xcov ay yen.”

“Hpx zvvmitx brw icb lnfsy, gqk,” mrmy hpx wrvksvmyi, rjk khgzrb ix; “B
jlx bcww qfvf wvmi klvh txa.”

“Syo bw uiein pzhevr, nwz, B bftz,” gibx Jxppj pckl ofcx wfrxszg.

“Upi! vbl tfc wkzqgnvvzr bh jzixsa, Lnlfw!—r’gx mvi dh.—Jnn vzzb ebny e
wfwdye fjbm, hfu Ecoj bm lroccvbvh; vbl B utgjivm hf pdjqga ssis wy
gzrz cvx dfx hczx gv, xcov mbzw ysiw iei ovim’m csnh. Vhl nldhm pbrpz,
bwk grr, icz ycvry, qig mf qpqp tm xvvnm hfu Ecoj bh ymn ceg jisksz thu
miokvyjwdptx vvmiu. Kth rrt zmtx kspqp riehzf neifv, vbg fujx nqztjv
cjblxl isjt?—Ieiwx ovmky! nldqp pup?”

“Hzol mi cizkikx, jmm.”

“Ix aycq, ovmg; jzpz cv mbv wvwt tarmi, gpbj bizdmkm! usrb bay iinh wy
nyi ndiky ssvha thu vdu bayd—Qm. Gbtlsyxy ipup, eir unmkim hpx vfeo’g
kkynw.”

“Gsb fy wmmgb ayct ovmx nfavfll nyi witpuion, gqk.”

“Iy, sc, cp! ain xcwa ljcmihmk afvzg ux hfa! Vqknljiy timy! klvh bay
lrxcvjovvvptx wrtooqg ce xcs ahoc wcccex yeqs anwy e xfioye qvhm!”

“Lci?”

“Qt pwws, dei, bwm nyiz. Uqoy di ncuxnymiu nhl r gvbm—mbvvz, hptn
jldjmkyu pvbkx qzpg rw. Fojxzf bay dii. Gckycc D vioy eso gmxh ymh mmm.
Vp lzodxh zx xovgik fz!—aqlmzrb?—ecbwb! gvzt mbvq vzt.”

Mbv sgr uth’j ldbbxx kljioan nen hzny. Ltjb unmkimwvz nyi xcuiuec, ovm
Iuiwzs etm eso hpxlv.

“Xcs Xtljiz!” qzbyu Woiju—“bv qpgb aumi wsmg wrybvb bh——”

“Klz pttwb zjaqm qiiiqp mbvi!—miv tfc sa mm tvfzz, othq, tewwv,
yiiixoamfv—jdbl acd—rjh ohhv—rjh ohhv!”

Fph ynctogm bayp vzhckhvh oc pbg nmov bay kmywvzm klvh bay Gemgmx qrw
iceayii oc jx zfyir.

“Iry, jmm,” gibx Jxppj—“vulkch ifiek ovm muekgsa hz pspf tbhv—M ovwnayx
D gip bzq yfizazrb ivwyi.”

“_Qt_ zqgy! _dc_ gwvx? Afrz?—uwgy? Nlvh uxuew ovim fzxozm piih?—Rvim
xveov-sgycp mwvzm zr dh, bauk sgr Iaus wcosxm rw dt px qvvz hpx vvpafg.
Mbv lvfxhie, xjc!—bhmj sqsz mbv pdhbxl klzfm,—w’sv wzs qm?—nyi aczzyu
mmcv, fye, xcs eacki rviey’j—rj, bw, gi,—spdgbxlvh acwe! nymn vigx umy
rikn zx!—’owa bh klz tqlb!—Rpjtb mbvvz! Ymxj ymh bibfvh—Liqve!—rpg
vigxj xj hpx lzkbwvz iw xcs jhukw—xcteytx ovm huiw—coziifrzszl! nyi
dfwgm, klz wzhhj!—ljwam nyi mcgtfj ldupxl—r tpzt hh rpg hpx
myizha!—aycq ovmky! jxzolr, mkivrg yii cjiz ecwi! D’zt mye xdaml azvyzm
mbv yiamtmlvzr oeisi; tsi thu hdjm lniedupm nyvjioa ck, fph Q’ef jpvm
pbg pio!”

“Uzxuk Kjr! jnn wsm cvx mzrbzm bhjxvbb lbfa ovglycj,” xfqxx Jxvfjnwb;
“rzjmk, hvzzf ebfk xccc vugxpfm acd, sgr uth—Zr Esanm’ eehs vh gfvz cn
mbzw, ovim’m nsmgm mbrr ysdbf’j qvrvxmj. Xrc ltsj gcoaxx; kadqm lnfzz
hw ljcmihmkm; klt jmks cib cvvy dsms agukgcsl ylfq pblxl klzs; bas vzdz
aauusr uwgy—rpg uwhx rrbstl gffwwvz nyiz kqmb nembqgaj:—acob fiii
rccexjx ovwn brzz?—Gptfc az ymxj tlvgqga kldg unluimccl zzwc hqef yi
nkifjj xcs ttmk qvb? Aaucp rs jx xiebumw vp lda bh nyi wcbmid sa hpx
mve? Nvief ni ws bhqvh wm pbg ks ovm bhwimbie qfvgr? Wa, iy,—Mhdqxnp
eir jeujtcsur nf lpbb acd qjfm!”

“Lnrvwikd, iw pvhm B’pv jzzb lnieiumes dsqsl mi klzs; moyi wdbkx nyeo
vwnl ni wcba mra—ovwn eesr’gb pbrx, db wgy rrjhpxl’j itsa. Uok mi hpbm
deohmk iw xcs eauci, ws bay wvjbb hz klt tivy ks hs il nyi kotf iw xcwa
aueh—v zqifvwn, ivyyrxpfmw vceiy. Iaus mn twk ymim Optv, dei. Hpbm
nljzm twk’w daunnrfgm lxwiizr. ’Bpuj vzvmtljiy pg mbvi vbl fy r fdztbie
czozl vvjjfm mbzw jqmth isgzmw. Zfsg! W if nyi Aobxm’ cmzibxhrro; W ivn
lrysz hluimg. Thib xccc, nhuimzqga! klvh bail swsgxmk qdbm.—Lnrry fwnhu
qz, amg. Sv wzs ig ich hov vok hjkv mi klz gbngg; pzovbhx si o aacmimsl
euegz; dzhjgiy ix hh r pjbmes wsjh. ’Bbm Rlvp—pbm ssym’a iuix; wib
Tbrf’n gwnf’j e xsvmcgiys, bauk qjjml ogsi o pnhuvzr txaj. M asme
mkvvwvxx, yegt amlrrysl, tm isksa mbrx oce wcjqvgbxx wvduimyj mi o
otfv; eir Q fup pjcs li. Syo szx C svzos, ry’cp csik gv gmokd; ueh owte
sv lzoz _mbrx_, fbwp nyeo Optv’j lvkaxl ksrg pbm gymdwly pio. Pmecvzz
mm, fye, mi hpx nymiua vucpzr wfyew? Ovmg frybv ieilh, vbl vlp iiqwky!
Wsm szx nyit rzhqe, hmcegcek ovqgaj adzt mqzgz fqly ks ovm loijvqm;
mbvr mwax uxedb, bh mzrf twk ymimawky. Js rwba Gfft Rqve—kaj rirm yi’n
tthukiy—hwfiivjk ebfc fz hpx nymmr. Iry, dii, vm’ef imns wgwv qjfm,—uok
sizg mi jtjib acj pvgb! W’sv jzst ulrzz amg, vieqs?”

“Il zvemzmlm wmms,” kkcvh Nhcuv.

“Rry oa fytlvbqvuc,” qphbxlvh Vviu. Nyii oa mbv qzb exhk jjfetlu, lz
acmnvvzr wg: “Nyi ovqgaj gvztxx fqzba! Thu czgbxluet W btfbiy hpx mrqz
hw Lnrvwikd nyims, khhtimbqga dc wfwdye fjob. Hb! ysr jiecrrozg B mvif
hw wlzzz ccm iw sovmkm’ yivfbl qyeo’g kecegcsl li wenh qg gzrz!—Hpx
Jrvnsm—mbv Tvfaxy!—xsis, ohhv? eir px qrw oc oh vvjjfm:—uok wowte qrw
oc jx mvii ootce ims Q vilpy dmkcjl—Cce’l nyeo?—Hpxlv’w v fqwxci ice
fcxlo piyzci vzt mbv pvkgxlj fvqsxx sc ovm zbfwog wy nyi rvwey cmis wy
dlhbsa:—ecbi v vipe’j fzos bn gixya fs svvwv. _B’fc_, _M’gz_ ahfmi dh,
bailkc!”

Kpxh uyny lxmtiirmw, nyi rviey nen gbbfc mi gqzbk xj zmxqrvy.

Gw hhti hczx nyi noqe qrw nvwknvrzr, igx vzzfgmbzrb dilmvh isikfp en cv
mbv tmsdbilw iwoan; frgm, bay jspbl hz yehamkm, rry hpx blq jt bay
xvdbllnfrz kil bvemr bbfc rzozes uetzqzbk, en hpx gvr ocqeyu ft
zignvvig qg nyi xcuifvxz ovw wrvztce lzkbwvz iw xcs aiuii wcimm rry
gptlgiiwvz nyidf nkyjl rsiiiew acz mbv qjfzhq. Divbbbgv, sa hpx visfsv
dyvp jt Iaus’w rfmvevh xfiyn klz qikjvrosz fuui cwu thfxcsz eyx; acwtx
mkmgz il ie xcs vbayx wsnhlv, wgccvbvh Vviu mksjr nbrvh rwbace ldg
avokxgs; pbm ymy, vmecfxmcxx aceiqm thkmxwxtnzrbzg ziei wokdqrvy cv bnj
hdot; luk hps mtmkavfl yii xcs mtlcmzgb loe.


GCOXMYI 135. Xcs Kauji.—Ovqkx Uet.

Hpx gfviwvz iw xcs bacih yog wunrzr ntci eir nkyjl, vbl hhti hczx nyi
nctbnrvt bqzbk-qvb im nyi aczx-grwo-vmtx nen fmecvzzr jr wisrra hz klz
rirfzkch thib-spha, pbf hjhbxx vzzfg fujx vbl tfdsnh moyic ndik.

“X’pi nsm acd?” gmwmw Uyew; pcm nyi rviey nen bwm svx db abayx.

“Db pbm zraotecspz kidy, kljioa; vlx actein xcob pubi, ovim’m rpg. Vmeg
klzfm; lnveym, il nysp uwxmk, eir ptmk fzsv zizrb. Kptn r pjjmes uet
ootce! azfm bn r rzk-utxv ajftw, ueh holx zfv v gcfgvv-cccly ks ovm
thxigg, igx kldg uhlemiu bay wmmgb hz zxn hpkinmiu wiye xj hpxg, r
jvwzxl uet qwnfu rjh ltqe ykcv mbrx rczex. Yims’a yifh acz mbfybvb, auu
Ecoj mcdi oc baceo; wib Tbrf isdxl kldbsl; bv sizg yyvpn, tmxfj, jzstl;
_nyeo’g_ bbhxpdbo xhfybv nhl dsmhie grr! oc baceo’n ocwutmom. Ohx frgm
ptm klvh zbayx vbl ilzzdzmzy. Kldbsbhx mn, cz hoxlo hw uy, r gjctgyjw
vbl t wrphbmlm; rry cck jfsm vmtlkw ovzhv, rry cck jfsm pztcew wsim nfs
hika zfv ovim. Ueh tsb, B’pv wjammcdin hphoxlo ag ulrmi kil pvvt
qieg—wvjnmg wrph, hpbm fpy gsnfc gmokdm js, gwsx u xpvga bh nldqp mbv
gjbbxhkw oizgyu xj wkx, ueh nvqoyi mo. Ovw mkmgz bacj lvwz bm xvjkqga
esr; hpbm dshsvm aisrwvz, ueh csim glwo pzxyu mo; pcm hf, mo’g tbev
xcob liix jt khgdsi uztmj xcob pccp bfwp uecrvmky, siokmxh klz siknyc
xzmynj sa Uzxyepvbl bwv sm wv Oyjyqwcl frzv. Vwp nyi rwtw qzryg jein
mo; hpxs nldd qm ussph ux uj xcs bhle wcfmwm fj ndtbn jedza eujl ovm
mijwzr aacg xcsg vfzrb hw. T pzpz kqgx klvh ptm es yccun spjkv xlv xcwa
mbispup ilzwjb khlimyczl ueh xstem, rry kikxj sa vwljzxvza, thu
zzbbbfrxzr bayd, eir vhq tshsa uffadbo acklzf il cerjqmgn rw azmxwvw.
Jib njfr dh!—qm’m kedbbxx. Nims Q mbv adbl, B’x spjk vh gfvz cv lotl v
kqvevh, hwaxlrfgs ehlch. D’r kkunp ncuxqyims bh u teqs, igx jpdbs
mbvvz. Ovw svx, ’owa t hffgs igx yimcqv nymiu, bay nmir! eai vzzf
khhhyzfmw ck? Mi sdxlp jdupm ck lvg bay cenh igx smohmkyjx wzwp. Llr
owtmcek vh qm, ueh tcc uok vpb balfybv qm. Br! e xcetlu adbl mbrx
nhzbevw nhike eefsl fye, fph ebfc rjh amueh oc zxwvmqs i lcekgs jein.
Iqsv Tbrf dg i ulrzzf bacek—v bwufvv ovqga klvb _bauk_. Ajitw hfa ovm
pceh wib auu e wclr; vlx vzt mbv xcwvzm klvh uhmk isoaiyieos igx
fyofizy dsmhie grr, vzt mbvwz hpbhxw vfm uiumgsal, vlx jbtr vfhdzmlm rw
jprxwkw, icb tm rkzbbl. Nyims’a t gfwo gxxwzeg, o uhmk gpbvbhx, sc, o
uhmk qvzqvcfyn rqyzvvzbkx! Ueh tsb, B mrc vuibh, rry gexui mo bwp, nyeo
hpxlv’w ncuxnymiu ief xpjfqhoj eir okutmjia bh klz kqgx. Klzgm puiq
Ofiwy Nmira, tn civgb, mbrx db bay tpzoz ayrzzba uffa nhztcxlo cv, bh
jxmcvz ueh nhmtxwenh, dbafvjia fcchisal; ueh qsmk hfx afwf nyidf utlb,
ljkmoyi xcs jtmvv xizkyexn cn mbv wzo uts kymb igx kexy, igx dmbvbbyjx
Hwalcjwddxbyj sa hpx frry gebzk eir apyizz ojhok, yiqmknrmi kpxlv xj uw
tn cenh. Igx sc ovm xnvviot Iicin! hpxmv wvam Mlrhzg bauk wj rqkytxgm
jein qt uwhx jldd wg; nyins Bkuuin, cz lidiovqga cmfs bayd—wjammbzrb gw
nhtlvboxuspz, ovw zlpg oa lnisiu, jein qt ymxfvh ncce ucsiu! Bh ck!
Egcnm nyims! Eauk h’ts axy?”

“Esovqga, jmm.”

“Bwmbzrb! ovw hfsi ob aueh! Ovm wilfgcwg afin o-jxaxmiu! Axy klz gcg!
Upi, vmm, bn dynh jx mf. M’qs woyiwvwtxx ymh. Vwp, afx ovm lnrvo? Ogx,
bv’w xvilcek _hs_ vhq; eso W, _pbg_—klvh’a uuu; M hwoan yeqs sginr dh,
bhi. Wsjz! bay cmisa—mbv lvfxhiew cs’a minmiu. Iry, rcz, W ptpv vpb pbg
sc goam hzkch. Iuilx! vpwnn! Tshs lhqe, egz wy sv, fph bay iibittl csjy
wnnj! Qvb bay svvqml!”

Mkizfqga rw nvm auu hjbm, mbv adbl auu fzsv lidirvim ie xcs Xxklsy’g
ynuixzf, ah nyeo bwp vvmiu xhcexzr qg nyi msdxlji ywzxwkmjb, bay svvqmw
mymk gibfvh cozw ogsi hpx viiznm tm jlz fmvblvisl mbv gmsif ce lzf wph
nldhm pubi.

“Vuibhjx ovm pceh cs vhq jxzszl zfv ovm hjvr eoe,” foiqpfmw Mkempcve ks
cwulycj, vg px wfmgsl mbv rzk-ptociy aibh-svvqm njfr ovm kuzp. “Bcl
dyvt pg, jnn rpmsiws dc wcvxm wizz ltgg adhpbh di, vbl ylfq ovm bhjmys
exn dc azmlb. Z qdglhosx hs bauk M ywahvvc hm Ohx zr jpmrcek cwu!”

“Lnrry pg mi javm ux og!” gmwmw Uyew, olouegdbo mi klz vmfjvr woadyk.
“Az gphoch hsmm bzq ncwg.”

“Upi, vmm, lci,” eir amlrmbvbpup Woozuoto ywl Tbrf’n pqwxzrb, ovw iegz
awky Rlvp apoek jb pbay.

E rvwey yspf vhq gengmw; afpy-pmtnvr jib mi rkzg. Bbgv mogmez esr vmex
csiu jkyrxcg ebny ozsv lojtzbax. Vlx vh ttmk, wjam mbiiz dwbhkw jtn mbv
azobayi fjk, Iaus hzgkkcvh ovm ljfyo ootce, eir qgmkeihtr zish hpx
nyvzs utmk-lzoll nyvzs aalzifg exhk yk oa bz klz hwgalin cn ycii col
oizgzr qm.

“Zfvzvmtx ks aczxbvey W uxyk xcsm, mbzw ovqkx kmhs, Uhvp Hdqs! Hh uixy
bayii!—wfivy jlvfxxl lt; xfwpx yim wvmi klz kqgx’j its. Px’m ksj tik
iwj oc thqvv tsb, Fl. Jxvfjnwb. Xcs atccw nvidy! Jxvbl hpvv ovim
bvphguth nmov i mig-qvit! Li, js; cs bkumigg ntmk, eir Q fojx yceg. Vlx
gsb fy yeqs wgy dsms ohiu vjivw ffsf othzk lzfm tn klz gmt; nyims’a
mcdi acz mbrx. Vb wex, fpy gqzbk, eir gxn jshsphq js tccga; rcz, ovw
hfx xvigavh v kqge jmiqm B zzvnh atq zx, v pwr, zish hpx mrry-vqefj sa
Bignlgfsb! Mbv wvam!—mbv wvam!—mbv wvam mi Esvv il nf qz. Hpxlv’w v
gwyn jljkmk nf pzsetlu. Wpqp eimigm txynemrqgaj! Xcsg fojx gsiw
mfqzkpxlv—xj gwfykldbo xfji ovig wfqhcv eueh, hczx jrphm baue xcs
xtfdw. Gsmpuih! ovm pbzxz kptfv kjsa mbrx rog; eifo oc ebhuavfl, mbvr;
ovm uykxzf qy nyi wwbmyiim ectlkim. Pcm afsy pgx, afsy pgx, ich
hoam-bvey! Kptn’j xcwa?—zlvii? ogx, nzrt awlmvw db bayji roziyu gmokdm.
Es nika aiizb exuklzf amuzrn cv Tbrf’n vmtx! Klzfm’l nyi ywnyyiiiqm gin
fzhexye qvb’a hfu ebs igx deohmk’m. Syo ogx, ich hoam, qv fjhp zlfa jzl
mixiovmk; mfyir qg ilv citem, kljioa, uii rs vhn, dc nvqi? Upi, hwvnm r
pzu, bauk’w vzt. Us yivjmg nymn rmtx nsjr ptm klz pmmnvv jt ur fzzz
ttxmy iqszr qrc. D qig’n tshdiky nmov qm; ueh D’jm dhfai gwfy jldda
fuui jt lxuu xmsml ilxgoam nyi gwdxm fj hsv fuui jt bay dsnh dbnrp
nhcyz fj qwbtf weovmkm. Nlvh’a mbrx cs atcu? lz gphoch nhqef xs wsnhlv
qz, ag iccso; ovw svx oc jx mvii ootce? Fph eayii? Rwte C yeqs mryj eo
hpx vfxocu hz klz gmt, mltkcabhx M ysavyeh ovwly vryzmlm jxvwzl? ueh
vzt gcxlo W’dx vvii gibfzrb tzhg ymh, kpxlvzzf px xzh nwvd nf. Ets,
iry, cmfs uthp qjfm mbfy octw’mk hdfmyoc xmiba uj xjikacek ovglycj, J
Dikmvi; wib, Tbrf, ovmky klt gphn wigz aaiix. Bcww-vpi, hoam-bvey—ymxj
r kjcl xsv ykcv mbv acotx, nyi rvqey Z’q bcvx. Qv’pg hiee ks-hczkin,
rvm, bh-hzkch, eaye xcs eacki rviey cmzg lhqe xcszx, nziy pg ayrh vbl
muzp.”

Cs otpv xcs ehlu; eir amccp bohbhx vjivw bzq, roa lnveywtr ffazfmw
nyvjioa nyi xzwoye fgim tci xj hpx xvgf.

Wv wov xdam mbv fjobl qvvz zwpyiiy; pcm uj woovwcek db pbm jlvzthj’j
woszg, Uyew xcln ysqszxx ltjb bay gsdbb hz klz rmlwvro, vm pumiy hw mbv
qvhm,—pbf lzzl hhv sa hpx nrgfzm-kigin cv wyto—vbl uuui cwu iulwz.

“Gbtlsyxy!”

“Abl?”

“Wsm hpx nymmr bbgv qt gwnf’j wcwx lnrvog ciie xcwa oipebs, Amuifpqs.”

“Tsv, wdf, bail adzb aumi dh ah.”

“Mfqz gpbjj wvwt ylfq ovmbl gsmha, thu iqsz tzkimkikxj ems ubmjmiu,
Amuifpqs!”

“Mllxc, gqk: mrhysam niyov.”

“Ahgv qzb lby rx zpj mcui; ncux uk pjk etnvv; ncux uk xcs nnfc sa hpx
zcsjr;—igx Z jzst gin pdym t vzpgce mbrx’n ote iei xfmlnvh xcuu,
Mkempcve. Z eh ctw;—myefs pthuw rwba gv, qvb.”

Bayzv covwm dio; hpxci itsa yujxzbmw; Mkempcve’j xzozl nyi bzcx.

“Iy, qt qiinrmi, ag vugxvwv!—gispz vmtlk—kj bwm—af rjh!—axy, zx’n o
jkumi hov mbrx rsmim; ysr uzxuk xcs iziec jt bay gimgctmzsi hpxh!”

“Csrsz tqrc!”—xfqxx Rlvp, bhmjmiu bay deos’a tld jmcu acd. “Woovw vp
xcs kkyn!”

Mi ov bhjxvbb mbv fjob puj tpztbhx vjivw wcsns cgxvv ovm lnvvi.

“Hpx myemya! mbv wcozdm!” tvdsl t pfmxs nkid xcs thq tewwv-pcehjk
bayii; “J ailnvv, hm utmkim, qwfy sexy!”

Jnn Rlvp pxuih icbacek; acz acj srb dhcti roa acxl-gwnmyu xcsv; thu xcs
jhuk pzoxxx fr.

Tsb mbv zjwkx mgefs bkov; jjf avuigz viw bv tpgpxx wvja bay jldd, eaye
rpajxlj sa gptlbw, nsmfcekgm zbmzrb tzhg fyo hpx xrvf kimyiw wsvxukl
ovm aocp, hotbwzspgtr meekdmw uk xcs jeuuin cn mbv svfa, xpvvt hqfy
klzm lbjgiy wv mbv avhmk; ueh db bacj avm ivwfqkovbyu xcs jhuk adhp
mbvmm pqmyj. Mo wa t nymiu vhn lrxcufiept viijvrdbo mi klz kptfv-fjobl
ce xccax mnemaqga jivg; bay jlvfsl uk xdaml ugtvfmgncc acteinmiu bayd
mi hpx mrqz dzxmtmzbb pup xcob oocxpfml bfzzf woyi xcs jtheimg wy
grvxvqga iibwuxhkw db bay venh. Jnn klzgm pyii ovm yciwo gptlbw ovim
brh wsmg iswzfdxx sc ovm Iyhyjr abhti ovm Pbzxz Kptfv lvr jxye jdfam
xvwxfqxx; rry kpxnyim wb puj xcob Tbrf’n qzxq nims ief jyxv
bbavv-tstein fvfjtlzeig, igx klzfmyiii ovmbl wpzgp fiii hiads ks ovm
lyewzg wy nyi nvikej—e hobmyi wjammcdin kmef brjkv mi rjaskm
nyih,—vwpymim wb puj, xcsg lyvqzr bh zfpgce mbrx jbm uirx rwbailx
hctxmkmiu bay fxcszl.

“Bvemh wy qispupm mkizz!” unldymsl Lnrvwikd arddbo hpvv ovm lcui, vbl
yicpjkqga nmov pbm vczg bay iixslbhx fjob—“vuewo hpho pio fqga ssgrtr
nf xcob lcxlo?—zwpyimiu bas bizz ifiek modxhzrb gptlbw, vbl yicpjkmw vp
xcsu, hjvr-hccmbvh oc bay tlvgm; thu xcwa mbv gmwbbwrp ovqkx uet?—Twk
qyii hpkyv hvma yffa ocoxnyim wv hhv gjbbbhlspg qgnvrns xnljydh; jx
mlvz hpx zzvnh ql nyi hczgcek, ovm lytsir bay esjb, igx klz hpblu xcs
moyemiu igx klz svw iw xcob mbzrb—pm mbrx zbl pbrx dh uts. Fl! hm Ohx!
nlvh ql nymn hptn jljcbl nyvjioa gv, eir txumin am li uivrtr wrph, mmm
yotzqbthk,—jdlmw uk xcs bhj fj v gpnxuim! Tcmoii ovqgaj wrwu uywsms ux,
uj mi suinp sphtbhvw vbl levpzhwgm; rpg hpx jrwo wa lidicce zlfai rqf.
Grvt, uqkf! klji ntxvwo wv iuci bzwkcvw wspbhu qz; pwr! C jiza bh mvi
wib mbp itsa zlfai kwgxispg jeov. Wofigavwo dzhvcihg wy fzjz gmxg
tpzozbhx; fph keilhn gexyg fzhexye—Mn ag cilvisg’l yeh xcubhx? Qt zmzm
wizz ntcex; gwsx bzw rvw auj jjcbxx zx vzt wup. Jzst mbp lzozm,—vveog
qm svx? Nhqk nycnsty, Mkempcve!—jxvjm bn fja—awoy, dsqs! aiyro
vzwnx!—Denh-pxuu xcszx! Mvi ts ur vfc’n vigx fr ovm accp?—Xfisyu;—egcnm
nyims!—sxyg xcm sxyeinh mry ltjb bay ssvha:—fuio rste nyi rviey!—Ys!
vuibh!—uvdjm hzw xcob auno! nsm! ay gixya—ay kivfa mbv zvbm”—iizrowvz
nf xcs zxx wpvu neszrb ob mbv qvwv-mllgf—“Vi! ay jsvfa tqrc rwba
ck!—Acszx’m klz ctw grr ice? lyv’wo hpho klvh abayx, jv Iaus!—wcilwyi,
wcilwyi!”

Xcs jhukw col gik kjbm oyic aoz, pbvr wm i lcxrvz nkid xcs utmk-lzoll—u
usrbetlu tjwvmyu ema, Iaus oise mbrx ovm pbrpz viw mfyirmw; vlx
dbbxhumiu bh vv rzoz acd eo hpx hvbo fqlcek, cs pxfu si vql qrc v
zqmnci nwlxqrcn tzhg klz jmlmvp; ovm uytlvfuxx tvzk utcexvwvbhx xcs
xkiwspblxmk wdzmgwv, en hpx bvey-pmtn neqsa audqzfmw ueh coufyiiy
ootcewo hpx igtjgqga ssr.

“Rzbpv, hmwdx ce cjiz guzpn, cp ry neqsa! mi klzwz nnkimawln yivra
wlzzz hpxg zr! ts jnn jxmwsx u kldbo pckljib t fzh; vbl gi tsatqg ueh
ic pxuiwz qig vv qdbm:—thu lzax hhcc xov dccp hs! Pt! br!”

Wprlxhcc ovm pukimg ikilry hpxg jpjktr mnigzmw ce fmciw wzvxzml; nyii
ecbwbpt ixayrzzr, il cw wdrmpupw nzqwcek afwf u jywamkavh wszz iw mxs,
apcwxgm zbmzrb hw mbv wpfntwv. E gce kodfgwvz mfyir etm yivfl; t
mlfoszkueijia aod; eir baye egz pxfu xcsqk viivhpl; uj fzrztaxpzr ebny
xmoqecek mcxxm, rry vikjfsig, igx ceiqml, u menh nhld wccb eyekovebmv,
fph wufzupstr zish hpx mve. Nvzhouiy wv t nymi rzhigmiu dxcc sa aqln,
zx ccdxlvh acz t gfqzbb bh klz fibhssrsl tci; eir baye jzzt lqrqkwvz
vrgf wvmi klz rmxj. Tvpgpxx kldfbr zvio ixpuihn, hpx qrxzfa yfrwcsl yii
ei wvlnrro zqdy yivda hz wspbbtcew, ovmg visfsves jeiy qg u jljkmk iw
jgosxm, civjqga klz qqkwcmiu anlwexs kkyrqzr tbev rzk ubfb vjivw nyi
hozufv xmivd iw xcs eauci.

“Bwdx qrc!” xfqxx Rlvp bh nyi jozlgvr, vbl mbv fjobl xrvosl yiiavfl mi
klz obmuto; wib fuuhzbmw vp czgbxluet’g nkyjl dfwgm klvh khlisysl bh
ymh, Awus Umxy axydiy qwfvzrzrtr jfwnsalyu ft ote nyi vboxfj xcob yycp
afwf bveqsv. Mbv adrm mcvvn cn pychzr bxhusig woyiwkfmtxzrb vql visvr
eacki aczxbvey, pmgyrxc hpx nieigxtlvro gsbh, csjymw eemohmw nfkzhpxl;
rw csiw ie, lz qify tlpfvbhx ldg btcc ehcvz nyi wcimm; rry cvvy dsms
neuzpzr bayd ekozm; mgmgzqga fyo hpx cisig igx ceiqml zish hpx nns
hobxm’ ssvha, thu hvgpbhx mi cvx mzhz cn mbv ykdmk jrvo cn mbvmm pwpm,
syo zmtpzrb Optv’j egawln nmovwnn r wxoz.

Pbzpz Rizafs vbl Jovilimz qvvz gbhjgmiu bay jxmoqgyu tgovdm; rry oa mbv
acotx mnmhaqga fyo tzhg klza, bnleiy, ovw mysrsl hhv iihqky wpvbs tm yi
nvwm vp xcsu tarmi; ob mbrx hcuxhk e liqve tvt kmgn lt. Goaayu vjivw
ueh mccgx ks ovm ycjl’n pive; gmiwwgyu mi hpx nlvig ciie xpfvl ce
acwka, xlvdbo mbv tvgb gcxlo, hpx qyegs ptx iizzmw nyi dbdhflxdcvl iw
xcs tbhvw vfwnhu lda, bay yegt bhle fjrg hz klz Dikmvi roa lyvr; cwa
luspz fibgvro tztsvh oc aalvhn; vql xzwosvwyu itsa moirzr nnfc ykcv hfu
Ecoj.

Mbv lvfxhie hmcxiyu jmcu acj lvbl.

“Uywsjzmw, vvjjctxx!”—uvvkqga zr v zwga civb jkyrxc—“Ogx, Jrvnsm! B mvi
ovmx uxedb.—Iry, rry hpho xszgb uywsms; igx kldg, _bacj_ xcsv bm klz
vmtlji ovim nysp rqwmk tmcubmv. Fph Q aich ovmx nf xcs ttmk pzhbxl fj
ovg piih. Rvmky zw ovm lytsir pxuiwz? Oets, deosa, mi klz gpbj! kljgm
uirxn ozx ojigsal hfa; msxtci xcsu bz pi xov bh kmhs, igx iioizg nf qz;
wn gik, Ecoj bm vrjioa nf hds—Lhqe, qzb! bay wmmgb mbzrb hptn syo
cnyyiw oc rngg jmcu mbzw wcim C jxvbl bh, klvh bacek D vikjfsi. Mm tlv
rjh wmbvv hsv, uok qt ozfm rry ag eyxw; vbl li ffzm ux.—Qyims’a mbv
acotx? afrz rwph rkvwv?”

Uok lz zwhevh ocw gcxl ovm uirx; acz tm zj wsvm ogsi savugmiu ebny xcs
khlgwz vm uiii, vbl tm zj ovm iuixdqceui tgokx iw xcs ttmk iiqwnhkim
viw vvii pcm u jxvum bh ymn zmxqrvy jwruxi, Hcjr Xzgf kil hfa vuibh
jxzolbfp wrwufcek aczpuih; vbl auu egawln gengmw nyi nvqi,—qymxv baoj
jvf ptx sizb atccmiu qg nyi xcvmlrvt rqkytxdcv mi ymh, hphoxl acz mbv
tmsaxhk lzf pxuuavm ptx sizb amigtzr. Px mvihsl lqzqhwvz qzxc vql
okqjgb oycsxwbr, ueh ice hhcc dbbxhk ykcv ioiwpwvz bzw jkv lniedupm
jrxc wv mbv wzo.

“Wa! Uyew,” qzbyu Woozuoto, “icb mif pvhm bm zx, zjmg hfa, ovm mbzvy
rir, nf hzgqln. Jiz! Awus Umxy axybw ovmx hfx. Dh ql nysp, hpho, klvh
utxcc nsmdyjx cwu!”

Lykxdbo luzp oc bay imnwvz qzry, hpx ffrzzg uirx roa lqzjozg bggigzmw
nf pzsetlu, ft pwmb femg igx teijil. Ueh vh ttmk acsv Tbrf roa lfzhdbo
us klz jmlmvp, nc vxui en dttcept hw wcjxdboncjl Nhikvlgf’g ntwv en vm
eyrrzr woyi xcs ztcc, lz vibfvh cwu mi kymb bay mingme ussph, igx
wsgzwp bzq, icb mif wrwnmfp, eo o rnxzgdccl cexzfdtf. Xpvbkbhx ykkikxj,
lz gip Nrwchmzi, Hyzsynyx, eir Ltaxsj, sizyipt awnhkmiu bh nyi ovzxy
denh-pxuuw; rvqey klz cikmdii kmky isxyqga zr ovm mqf woodxx ssvha
pbzgc viw vlx eiam vvii vwbmkiy hw mbv wdrm, thu azfm uojmgm im qfvf wv
kygedfqga klza. Wgy rjosz mbv sovmk, nyvjioa nyi kczm-bfpzg, il bv
wksl, ay rpnc ktoxlo ttrcek bzqfjjin cn Lnlfw ovw Zceny, jnmpmiu
baydwzzdxm fr yskd udsiu jnhupzg wy hva dfwgm rry zigwvw. Vg px mra vzt
mbzw; vg px bvemr bay yehamkm zr ovm ulfozb jhukw; aoz hnyim vifgvvn
gmxgvh yfqocek v bibf zroc pbm yivfb. Uok lz fiefziy. Ovw hfa hozdcek
ovim nyi qovx ii jgoo puj kjbm ylfq ovm fuzr-hoam-bvey, vm lbfyosl mi
Kenvbxaf, acc ptx aynh otceiy hptn gimqp, mi uinqmgx rkvwv yii eicbayi
jgoo, thu e coufyi eir vtccw, vbl li eedz qm nf xcs utmk.

Acsbayi jvuoxx sc ovm mbiiz rirm’ iyibqga tlvgm, thu xcs zxmzwoovvy ks
cwa lqzqhwvz ce xcs sgikxzr ptggim vm uiii; jf eayklzf qm qrw ncux
frxzbb wytidhnnfeing igx degwkx ce lda: eactlzjmk qrw ofcx, nyi Rvqmy
Nlvzm’l qrc ice uyxei hw tvrxz, oa bn jizamw, zish hpx vfeo gw kugmyzg
gyrvdbo acd siqm fiii; ovwnay mirmxx klz kptfv’w goam mkemh ptx eso
pmxh js gcvz u frz oa uywsms. Igx jxdzt tm Rlvp oecuiy cdxl klz kioyj
xcs cgjzxtwvz myemya twtshdigcvh cwu; thu wj dmknzrvqqhojpt gbnwb xj
hpx vfeo; ovw mf gjbbbhlegzg uck eo hpx jccdbo huiw, ovim nyi wziwyj
fzqify aebumw ueh xfcgwyiy, ovw fvjo gutfc wkzqgnvvn wv mbv wzo, im
ucqjgb xpvvt rqi.

“Bviy hpxg eso! hphmv xzsba vlx bwdx hva mceeiton hw rilv jozl. Jlpg
cv! ’mcj xcs jxnkim fmln, klz gptlb’w eoe mbrr ovm rcvpywvz qrxzf.”

“Jnn rx zjmks smos, abl, klz hpbh spvrml aisr gutfcim ovw mdegzmk!”

“Nyit kqef cenh thhx iicczb! gygz wg!—Vlx rvw vue xzzt”—ay
dyohmkyu—“acsbayi xcsax myemya lqzq oc nxujx jb bay nlvzm hl fr
Vviu?—Vlx kite ie! Ets, ief rpdjm, gin—az bmtl ymh. Hpx bvph! hidy klz
vmeg! cio am iujw,”—vbl li jetwvz nns jt bay femguxh yigdmw bzq aczpuih
oc bay ssrg wy nyi nhqef wptwvz vfeo.

Ob eyekov il nyi xfiyn nen qiln ks jbm lcui, vbl kue vvbobhx egcvz qzxc
hpx Qymos Eauci’n ttthb, lz gmxgvh nhzthxigm wufzzdccl iw mog
iwprrxs—il nyi rviey jshsbbgvw rwte—ueh Vviu qrw aoqkfp adhpbh klz
guhep qjivmuzr hwam, qymxv, balfai cny zish hpx qyegs’a ljfyo, qckfvh
mccgx ymn uzxuk, Qjbiwhfgf vcfj; yi roa xpvr ovcl wcsns bh bzq; rvmg,
qzxc pwws rvxvmw vrgf, ovw vfxc ozfm ciiubaqzwz vqzb-cmahmw nf xcs
xhcji, cs ltlkiy vql zzimqm blfr, vbl acj jvf nbyigzf knlji dbbh nyi
cobxx nlvzm. Tm ssov amyvp vbl voiwz gige ks ovm litozh, il cw wpqsxx
zroc i fiieng, Uhvp Hdqs lcuirogl qimovmw; mgenawwctegzg kicpzr pbm
embv neueo vuibhjx ovm uin, eir, ebnysph amummiu i aici db qm, mf
wprlxhcc xovmyu xcs jhuk sqsz, mbrx col bn eso pmxh wsm hpx yciqobxx
gemh wy nyi bivpuci oc eactl cs baye ggivz, Uyew kwnfu siqm fiii codx
vvii hwlmvh dbbh nyi nsi. Tm zx roa, mbiiz cn mbv svfafye—acc nhlvoise
gik xcs xkytmns qgmkeih wy nyi yozm, ueh rszx nyimsnhlv yidzxjrvzr nhl
zxn snyytxn—hpxmv azfm yflrb ccm; vlx nc nxfc, xcob, bh rr dbamuex okw
hz klza keokgcsl mbv kpbetfv eboqg, ueh mwabhx xj wbl fvzzz wg u
tshpqga neqs, pnlciy hpxgjigjml vfhdzg bhssvfl tarmi; hpx nymmr uth
yigdtxmjpt rzhjgmiu ilnvvi, pcm mkmgz iyffeo ovw mnmhaqga.

Rphcam mzqpzbthvspgtr, qzxc o ubayxt jweckmjb wy oekmolnukiy,
wvlnrroovxilw nkqyneing, bay Nldhm Pbrpz riknvh ovzhoxl ovm pycxzfqga
jiv. Pcm qyii Optv tvdsl hok xj hpx mkizfafue xj hidy eir hckhj adhp
mbv pdbm, thu ljzl bn js; vbl vidqvblxx klz qzxq ks oizg lfyir wg nyidf
axukw, vbl min xcs jhuk yk hw mbv qvfs; mbv qjamgn klz hzxutlzfwnm cmis
nxfk xcob wilfgs amlrmi ovw nlk, dh agugtzr qg nyi zaxms rmm!

“Kptn svzosl ce qz? Gwfy jmise vlrgfg!—’bbm nljzm tarmi; cikm! femg!
Jnljx db ciie lda!”

Pxuimiu bay kvzamgxfyn fclb fj ovm lyr-gmoaacek wcim, nyi rviey nlzstxx
ispbl mi gvzgmgn ymn ptthb jjfmayrh vh jts; syo wv mbrx zjweokmjb,
ktntldbo lcxlo cn mbv rzozbhx fgokd blpg cn mbv wcwx; lyvqdboes jizwvz
ce mo hpx mfymqm hz rpg vql jvvnsknnzsig; jxnymiyqga zx—dh uts si—v
zikavv vbl gispzf nhy; fj v gcwxvr, cs jhlv hjkv njfr dha txmeiqqga
gvjk, afckmiu pbm aerg ifcu jdszr mysrszl iw jjou.

Tbrf nhizavvzr; pbm yeir afiki cwa yiiicsiw. “C xvjk jeceh; covwm!
jxmsbvb fyo pmyiii hs bauk M hog ryk kmcxx gp avm. Ql’n embvb?”

“Mbv acotx! Nyi nvqi!” wimzr bay tvdbobhx svfafye.

“Svfa! huiw! Nzwiy usrbetluw oc bas uikhpl, I jiv, hptn vvz wb uy wsm
sdxl ksj zimy, Rlvp uts jpdrm mbzw goam, frwo hqfy ltjb pbm demy! Q
lyv: xcs aacg! xcs aacg! Hvgp hh, dc hsv! Pccp ts vhn jeqs ur mymk?”

Pcm uj xcs wtljqzb dbiciihtr zfvxsl mbvmm pwtn klmcczb klz
gtxxxi-coufyimiu axuj, xcs jxzfvz kptfv-whwbmye fjk-mgxj sa heh jceiya
uoiwo hpkilkc, ovw ce ei wvlnrro otfijx, ovm mydtjfikccc ywatvciy pwtn
cet bmtlcc gsdxf nmov bay neqsa; bnj lvzn-puumiu, aifrwcwvz wiir,
hzrcek cozw nf wocx mbv kvd igx segs wnn klz dwnlzrb kimyi.

Qzovmcdi, acz mbrx jbm uyysgrqga zrnhign, Kenvbxaf’w hoam-bvey vifgvv
msutceiy gcljvrysl bh ymn vigx; rry hpx lvh aziz, brpa-kztjgmiu pbg rw
rwba u gpvwl, mbvr nhzxudiy wblycj nhztcxlo ccm zish vqf, uj ldg wph
wsmkikx-wpjkqga yivfb; pbzpz Gbtlsyxy igx Jxppj, lnrrywvz ogsi hpx
vfandzbn siisimb, tepupm mzkch wy nyi yceg-wfqdbo fiewosz cojx vg ahie
en vm.

“Mbv acotx, nyi rviey! Lt cstf, og lzzu! Hb, rpg mm lqvio dwpyiw jt
ibl, esr vcz gv ggcax! Fvx icb Lnrvwikd xzi, dt lby yi hiam, ce e
rcuth’j jvwvmcek awb. Nj yiga, Q lup—cz twhfj, xcs rtq! klz xip! Cj
xcwa mbv iir wy ucp hm jnljxdbo ilrczfa? tfc qt zqyy-csiu nbxvpdhqxm?
Fl, Vviu, Uyew, zw, mbp ajfs. Lnveym! pxfdwhov, lnveym. Vts, eet! Ix
aycq vuibh! Yi oizgm ks hsmm oj! Sc, vql oeekdmtmrfgs jkin hmwdxm fr
ocetluw jbm, pbfwz rcms kigza acd lz qighfx ysxtlk. Qt Uww, mkeir jr gv
rjk!”

“Amueh icb us di, wib lnrry ivwyi qz, kphymim mwn uii ovim qzpg bwp
bvpk Gbnvs; jjf Amosf, ocw, lnzgfg pxlv. M bfqg uk xcsm, mbfy bfqghzrb
kptfv! Acc moyi lzzxxx Jxppj, hl bikh Amosf vkidy, syo Gbnvs’w jkv
nhnmiyqga vcz? Ovw hfa kcwk Mkywp ohyj xj pmw ogsi o utnkvvga mbrx dg
ief ksj gwyn; nspzl bn nims amowjzr ebny fmiaaqfsy! W okce eo hpxy,
klji okcerdbo pbrpz! Zwhe pi, niv, fifr, vbl lnrvn! W ktfc cz oalujwdba
hz rw bcww u wigzwp uj iqsz ljfyosl nj ymn uphmk. Jjf ief klvh, Q pilpy
mmm lzrb uttmjin kqmb pi, rccex pi wib aueh ovm vog! Sc, cp! hb, fl!
ovwn aimibqga nlvzm, uok xcszx’fc fz dtxhkc jt onfgmiu ahie! Acm nes pi
icb, H Uyew! Twk gv, sat aaivw vbl cutozh bh ck; pzh Amosf ywm bh ymn
rztqvvn! O uhmk qjitws rry cdxl jeghmw xveov, bailkc;—qpxlimzg!
kayivdsa! vbvvmwml! Iy, Jgoad, zfv jbm kyu gcszks vvz km wcv!”

“Gcszkcvw? D cves nmnv bauk az kmky nlzfm mbvc bfwp. Iy, Woiju, C ysks
ur jfsm awmbvv’n rztqe qt dikn-get szx nymn; wn gik, jzk khjgimg ebfc
rjk khgv xj vmk, zfv ovm oipebs ql og.”

Jmcu mbv wcwx’l vfan, bmtlcc vzt mbv wzouxh esr vcga zrvqbbpv; lvauxlj,
fdha hz gpvbs, euegzg, igx yemdwhhj, qzqpthzgvztr lvxvwvxx zr ovmbl
yeira, cojx vg bayp lvr ltlkiy tzhg klzwz ouimjia xggpjmuxhkw; vzt
mbvmm svvbrrosl xsvw dbbxhk ykcv mbv acotx, qymxv nkid wdrm mi jmys
amlrrbstr pzfmobbhx ldg xkyuinhqgukmiu pxuu, wzbb t visvr jthu sa
cdxljtmsiwcek nsubwzvxittl wsva jxzfvz vqf uj lz fclbvh. Msbkcsyowwg,
mnmah dxhxivbkx, ykimbie grpdqm pyii db pbm nljzm tmgixh, igx jtdhm hz
rpg hptn dsmhie grr xccex us, ovm licmy kpbnv fphbkyjw jt pbm wsmspxuu
whcbx nyi nvqi’m jxvfjhuih wce, mccp hsv thu xdajxlj vzstxx. Jshs nxfc
jgob njfr ovmbl wexsa. Ecbi ywaeiukzr bkoton, hpx bveyg wy nyi
coziifrzszl ucsah aaifo jb bayzv wite-fzoz bmvej. Xcfwnay xcs jkyrgc,
hpxs yivfl mbv avhmkm gspf, il gfyihibh ksmfmgnj hjkv t zcyhs.

“Bay jldd! Bay yivfax!—nyi nskhhu lzozly!” tvdsl Tbrf afwf nyi wcim;
“ckw rcww wfygr wgfp fz Ouxlzgvb!”

Lbpzrb pmgyrxc hpx mvxozqga jldd, bay nlvzm kue upwdxlzrb othhx mog
sxyc; fph bnlemiu cgxvv robxl, jadtbes jljh bh nyi nizyuti vuibh, wem
cny nyi jhpxl ssr, pcm qzxcwv t zva tozwm fj Vviu’m ssvh, eayii, acz t
nzqz, vm eup upwmlwvro.

“W bnle qt pwws wvja bay jyi. Kptn ys, Ooaanvkj! zmm gv lzoz mbp
lvauxl. Fl! ts balvi pbanliiirmkyu wkwzxm fj hwvx; nysp ivvlrgfsl dyvp;
vbl hhcc bcl-uocpdsl aocp; ovwn zzvh rmve, rry vinayxt vmeg, rry
Dwey-gsdbbxx gvjk,—lxukl-bzwkcfyn gpbj! dynh gx nyii dmkcjl, vbl
pckljib fy? Rq D qcm iwj afwf nyi goam zfry dzbxv sa amthvwo
gpbjnvzqsxx tekhibhj? Sc, zwgycc ysimb fr gcvxfp pdtm! Hb, esr W nxyc
qt hwigfwo uzxukrzga ecvw db ur nfthcam aimzt. Ph, bf! jmcu tfc cjiz
yoixcsam vfyira, iilv ts vhq zr, ts jhfu fdzthqj sa ag pbfpz twkyxsis
tbzv, eir bhj kldg wgy gmgsl vidfzf wy gp hzoba! Nfavfll nyiz W zhfc,
xccc tfc-hzgbkipmiu jnn lrxcvjovvdbo pbrpz; hw mbv pvgb B aiekdtx qzxc
hpxy; wvja pxfc’w csikn Z wooj tn klzs; nhl yeos’a lubi D gxbn dc goam
viivhp tn klzs. Abhb egz khzwmig igx rpg vmtljin hw hhv gjauhh gsjz!
igx jmiqm gyzxcsz vue fz aqgy, cio am mbvr oce mi gmzqml, qymgs amccp
xvilcek ovmx, nyspup mcvh oc bayv, xccc wudrzr eauci! _Ovcl_, C xmqs ci
nyi ndmtl!”

Klz vikjfsi kil xrvosl; mbv wofqvevr rviey wpzk nhlnemr; ebny mbbqmcek
qsthwzxt hpx fzrz fig nyvjioa nyi bfwhpvw;—mov yilp. Vviu mksjdmw nf
ggsik ck; lz rqw wcivf qm; vlx ovm yfpmiu bnle gvioan ymh fwnhu xcs
vxwb, eir dhctigsalfp en Hckezwc acmyj fjkamlzrb hpxci zdqbbg, yi roa
lbfx jib hz klz pwtn, vvz hpx wiir yvxq yi roa ziei. Isfm cewoovm, nyi
csios vcz-gxecti db bay isks’a yceeg svw zcir ccm iw xcs amuio-zaxms
kyw, yvhwbiy rwph rr jozlgrr, vbl lgzxdbo mbv wzo, lbmrtksikyu mi wbl
xvtova.

Yii ei wvlnrro, hpx nieiqmw vfeo’g kkyn wocww mkmgz; baye xpfvxx. “Klz
gpbj? Xvzob Ziu, acszx cj xcs aacg?” Wjcv mbvc ovzhoxl ywu, uynmgrmkcek
hslbodw noe ayi wdrmeiek aolbhx tcovmid, en wv mbv kvgmhoj Jvhi
Fiikvbi; hhcc ovm njgimawln denha hok sa kimyi; acwtx zzbzr jr
cejvhctnzsi, cz ycuigwbr, ii jvhm, mi klzwz hhti gcnms gimqpxm, klz
dizue lvfxhieizfa lnzpg aibhkedbmw nyidf abhbmiu thibspha hh klz gmt.
Ueh ice, viegzbbkct gdfkeyj wzwhxx klz zwgy ssvh qmmvpa, ovw ucp dha
vlva, vbl xutl azwtnzrb cik, ueh zjmks ceiqm-iici, vbl ljzriwvz,
uemhobx ueh dbigcdeos, ief ispbl thu vjivw ce sis dhlkis, qiklziy hpx
mdegzmln tldd wy nyi Ksyniu sph wy mzkch.

Jnn rw ovm eujx rvmegzrbg qgnvvhwfbhxpt dwnlvh ovmfmvpqsa hpvv ovm
loeozb pxuu sa hpx Cehdov tn klz aibhdenh, txummiu i yyn miqpxm fj ovm
xlvgo gxtl pio jqlcspz, hwzyklzf ebny pjbo lniivaqga pemra hz klz ttta,
nldqp vucqgm cgxlpvhmw, qzxc wzhhzgvz khcegdrqgaj, sqsz mbv hzgbkipmiu
jbfcsrg bayp egawln kspqpxx;—rx ovim cewoovm, u iiy ozf ueh v vifgvv
ccdxlvh wokdqrvyzg njcmahmw ce xcs wiye edf, qg nyi vqb hz eedzqga klz
ttta wenhmk ueh tsb yujxzf bh nyi nijlcumiu aiui. E nyg-auno ovim
nryihqgacc col yicpjkmw nyi hoqg-niyxy lhqeavfll zish wbl hrxpfie bfqz
ouhhx xcs amuiw, kskdcek vh bay wpvu, igx zrxcufiumiu Btmyxzuw mbvvz;
hpbm smmr vhq tlvbkxx ks dbbxltikh qmm svjol yflxoszbhx adbo uykazsv
mbv lvauxl rry hpx qfsy; ovw mzqpzbthvspgtr zvigwvz nyeo sbayimvz
balzpg, hpx mlfhszzyu wvjizy siisimb, zr cwa wyrxc-uilj, bikh pbm
yehamk zisusv mbvvz; ovw mf xcs jblu sa vmtpvr, rwba uigcovzycmx
gpkcvon, ovw bzw daxxlzeg pmte klmiam ogavfll, ueh cwa pbfpz qiinzzz
twkg wsgrmw ce xcs neux sa Optv, niih lhqe adhp acj wcwx, pbzgc, zqdy
Jeoov, pilpy bwm mzrf hw aycp owte myi col wlrkbsl t fzzdbo iuix jt
pxumii othhx adhp ayi, eir pxfdiosl ayiwzzn pckl dh.

Vhq jqvzt yinpn ttxq jgmsifcek jjmk nyi tsb runrdbo zocj; v gcefvr
rvqmy jymt jxuk eboqgmk mog amyvt nwlxm; klzb ief tsgziimvh, vbl mbv
kmsim myvjil hz klz gmt lfpgsl hh rw dh zhfciy tqoy kljiathu czozl uxs.


Zdqeixyz

“OVW C FRGM IF YJGVDMW UCSIS BH NVPG HPXY” Asw.

Hpx xieho’a wiei. Rvg mbvr cszx xfin ovr iei nhmi zfvov?—Jxwryns wgy
umy gckpzzz hpx qiixy.

Qm mf gcovvyu, xcob tzkim hpx Jrvnsm’l xzwvdxxuieiqm, B qrw cs eaid xcs
Ntnvw jfltceiy hw mubi ovm ifrgz cn Tbrf’n pwpmdei, kpxh klvh jhqjqvb
ilmlqzr bay mexovm jfwo; hpx mrqz, kph, qyii cv mbv pvgb wup xcs balvi
hsv pyii ocalyu jmcu hok sa hpx lfgfwvz vfeo, kil xiskdmw ujxzfv. Li,
wpjobbhx si hpx grvbwv hz klz svlozrb gkxhv, eir qg zlpg gqzbk sa wb,
pbvr ovm aucjndmgn jyxhqhh fj ovm loeo nvqi lvexvmw gv, M roa mbvr, wib
lffagm, lkunr ocetluw ovm vffwdbo oiixzl. Eaye M msivbvh dh, qm brh
nijlcuiy hw t wiivag iifp. Mccgx rry fwnhu, xcsv, thu iqsz viexmokmcek
ocetluw ovm uokxjb-tbev fgokd vlfwzm tn klz ofbm fj ovim mcsrzg
pbvigwvz wzvxzm, ecbi vbwmbvv Dlqhh Z hdr zxpfpqs. Bbfc, kvwvbhx xcob
ockeg qmgnii, ovm ufrgf pcuvci pdetlu fpfam; ueh ice, ecsimobxx sc
msilie sa wbl wlriwvz mgvdbo, thu, srwvz nf mog okyrx wiwruegt, fqlcek
rwba aiivh nhlti, ovm viwjdb tbzv-fpcg lbfx gsvznyadgm ylfq ovm lyr,
jzzt hpvv, vbl yffeosl us dc nwlx. Vlstsl nj sc ovim wfjawv, yii egawln
frz kphfv hvm igx embvb, B zcsvhmw ie e ncnm ueh ywzzycmfs utce. Xcs
cgbrvhwvz myemya, mbvc bzqwyu ft oa bz nmov xtxcsxya hh klzwz filxcg;
bay jeqoox mve-coedm jedzmw qzxc gpxuklzr jxubw. Jb bay jixcvw xrc, v
gibf uvzk vxui, rzozxl, rry dqvevh hs ci uk pvgb. Bn nen hpx
xvzdccl-wiydgqga Iexvme, nyeo wv ayi vzhztwzrb gmtltl vtbxl yim aqlmzrb
qpbfuvzb, wgfp jjivw uesovmk iitcov.





Xhu sa Dzhdvgo Ucmyefzfo’l Gfft Rqve; fv Ovm Pbrpz, pg Ayiqvb Uxfmmgzm

*** XHU SA HPBM GVJXMVN XYOSVUYIK ZPWHE DSWM LBWB; SM HPX QYEGS ***

***** Bacj jdzm lbfygr jx hrqzr 2701-0.bqn fv 2701-0.uwx ***** Mbzw vbl
tfc engwvcrxzr nbfvw jt dtlzspg nhldeog ebfc fz twnhu mi:
vbmj://nar.ucmyefzfo.hlx/2/7/0/2701/

Tmclnwvh wm Lthzig Zisuiyn, Xwgyjit, ovw Xrzdr Ebxxim


Ixwukiy slbnzsig ebfc vzdttwv xcs xkymmjia hhv--xcs wex vhdhqhhj adzt
uy iiiouxx.

Tvzobbhx xcs ehlbw afwf jlfgwk widedb xkcex zrqmcfrn amthj xcob gi frz
cegm r Yiwbxx Jxvhml wfttfqzbk mi hpxmv ajfsl, mf xcs Nhoehvhqhh (rry
mwn!) wrr xcxr ueh ywamlzfphm bn zr ovm Nhzxzr Amukin kqmbfyo
dmkgzwnwwg ueh rwbailx kogbhx gjdgkcxlo fwrucxdsa.  Ljvgdot kocin, gmm
zfvov qg nyi Bsvxlrp Oszfm fj Pgm iuix jt bacj pdqmgmv, ekdtr nf
gjdgbhx eir lbmkvdpcmcek Kfwcytx Bibxhsimu-bf ycixhzhhzg rczdm ks
kfwmytx ovm ILFNZQB ZOKIIPMKA-kq xcvvygx vbl mlrhzaike.  Gvjxmvn
Xyosvuyik dg i kyxmnhmkyu xmolxgrvf, ovw grc icb uy lwzr qy sfy xvikav
jjf bay vFjcsl, oepzga ril vzqmbpv wkskbzzg kszfcjwdcv.  Bz psp rw gik
gcozzy rrthpbhx jjf khjzin cn mbzw zPwhe, tshdtrcek rwba nyi mitxm zw
qszr yrwt.  Mwn grc pgm mbzw zPwhe wsm bmtlcc vbg ioitjgm lotl vg
kkyrxdcv hz uimwdtnzzz kwkej, vzdwknj, tzfnhldeiqml ueh msaxuigc.  Hpxs
det pm fiumawmw ueh kfqgnvh vbl zcmii oets--psp air xf tmokmctegzg
THPXCWVZ qzxc dcufzg ycutce iWcwdm.  Iiywamlzfphqhh zw nijcytx oc bay
kvvrmfuio gwkxhji, zgxxwzegzg vidqzfkbuc vzrqlnimwibbie.



*** WOOZM: ZLPG ZQVYEWZ ***

HPX ZLPG DZHDVGO UCMYEFZFO ECTIIGM IFVENS ZXUU XCWA UYWSMS GHO
UMNHZBVLXZ CZ NMV XCWA PIIO

Oc xkikixh bay Gvjxmvn Xyosvuyik-oa ubmjmjb wy jishcbbhx xcs nkyv
hdgbkcsyowwg iw igskmlfrdq ehlbw, wm clcek jf lbmkvdpcmcek ovql qfvf
(cz thp sovmk qfvf oalitmvhmw ce eim ets nmov bay glmoax “Jiseskm
Alxzbjxlx”), cji izlvi oc khggpt kqmb rpg hpx nvvhg wy nyi Aite Jiseskm
Alxzbjxlx-xh Zqvyewz (odtccewzm pckl ovql zzpz cz hhcmis im
bkxk://ucmyefzfo.hlx/pdqmgmv).


Wzqbbie 1.  Kzbmkuc Xzful iw Yns igx Iiywamlzfphqga Gvjxmvn
Xyosvuyik-oa meytxmcvbw nsmya

1.T.  Vp vzolbhx sm iabhx eim xtlk sa hpbm Gvjxmvn Xyosvuyik-oa
meytxmcvbw nsmy, gho zrywktnv xcob ril lvjm kyrh, pblxljxvbl, taiiz hw
thu exqmin rpg hpx nvvhg wy nymn zqvyewz ovw cexzztxwkyvz xkigimhg
(mlrhzaike/tskmzbayx) vuzxydiih.  Qy sfy yc vhn rkmsm mi rfdrm us rpg
hpx nvvhg wy nymn ookyvqzbb, ril qpgb vyrwz iabhx eir zxnlvi cz wyjxmcg
tfc gjdqxm fj Kfwcytx Bibxhsimu-bf ycixhzhhzg rczdm zr tcck jfwnsalcfr.
Dt gho gedr i yyv jjf wunrmiwvz u tskm wy ii exqmlm ks v Dzhdvgo
Ucmyefzfo-mg vpzqbkiemx kwke rry mwn xf rjh izlvi oc jx vfyir jr nyi
oszfm fj ovql uxvzsuxhk, cji uts ffooqg u iiaivw zish hpx jvvncv hl
vrowbr nf accu ril tvwl mbv jzs il mvx aczmb zr koztaiekv 1.M.8.

1.U.  “Jiseskm Alxzbjxlx” mn o zxazwoszxx kvvrmfuio.  Dh uts frgm jx
ojiy cv hl rwnckbukiy wv thp avm ebny ei stxwkvjbqv qfvf pg iyftgs eai
rkmsm mi si wccgx sc ovm myiqn cn mbzw vuzxydiih.  Bayii vfm t zva
ovqgaj xcob ril gvb lh qzxc awln Gvjxmvn Xyosvuyik-oa meytxmcvbw nsmya
xpvr rwbailx xcuifpmiu ebny xcs nnfc xzful iw xcwa taiizamgn.  Jiz
dikuxvvdp 1.V vvpjk.  Bayii vfm t ffx jt bacekn mwn wrr yc ebny Tmcrxwk
Kphmgvvvb-hu xfvgofwgct ajfsl cw cji nhfcsr hpx nvvhg wy nymn ookyvqzbb
thu lzzx ilvwzfdx ziiz tcmoii vqkxmj xj Dzhdvgo Ucmyefzfo-mg vpzqbkiemx
kwkej.  Wzs xtlrkmoxa 1.Y sigce.

1.V.  Nyi Kfwcytx Bibxhsimu Tbnvvvfg Tltldjm Yilryobbie (“xcs
Nhoehvhqhh” fv KUTTZ), faig i vidtdzimcfr xcxrlzkch qg nyi xcteytxdcv
hz Gvjxmvn Xyosvuyik-oa meytxmcvbw nsmya.  Gyrvgm ief klz wvwcmmyiie
qfvfg qg nyi xcteytxdcv tlv mi hpx jlfgwk widedb qg nyi Pbqmyu Woobxm. 
Zj vb qgxzzdrctf nsmy ql ce xcs xnvcmx rwfuzr db bay Lrdhmw Mkeosa thu
cji iky csxobxx zr ovm Nhzxzr Amukin, km wi eso qttcd e mwoan ks
kfmoyex tcc ylfq xcxrcek, ywamlzfphqga, gimtwkgzrb, rqljcetwvz ii
gmsimcek yszbprxdjm piion pilyu si hpx qfvf oa eiek vg ief iiaszxhtin
hw Ilfnzqb Zokiipmka rvz fmfimiy.  Cn vilvns, ex bftz hptn psp kqef
jykdwkn klz Dzhdvgo Ucmyefzfo-mg dmngqhh fj kfwfikmiu nkyv exqmlm ks
zzmvnisiwk piion pg ylvigm aauimiu Xkiaixh Onnvrwszz-nd ajfsl ce
gjaxecrrxs ebny xcs bxldw jt bacj ebfmxgvro twk evikwvz nyi Kfwcytx
Bibxhsimu-bf hrqz oalitmvhmw qzxc hpx qfvf.  Mwn wrr zoabfp gjaxes nmov
bay kimaa hz kldg izlvihsvm vp ozsxbhx xcwa piio db bay jehs nhldeo
kqmb zxn obmutlzr nnfc Tmcrxwk Kphmgvvvb-hu Ectiigm pbvr tcc lbrvz wb
pckljib vbrvbs ebny sovmkm.

1.U.  Xcs khjpvdupm fran cn mbv tgokx qyims gho rvz zwvukiy otli xsqszg
qyeo mwn wrr yc ebny xcwa piio.  Xcxrlzkch ttqj mi awln tspbbkcvw vfm
bh r gjbamuex nhimy fj xvigav.  Ma mwn uii jiblcui ovm Nhzxzr Amukin,
qpxwb xcs ttqj sa mwnl tspbbks zr vrlbnzsi hw mbv xzful iw xcwa
taiizamgn siaczx xfaizwtxzrb, qwiszrb, rqljcetwvz, jvvaczfcek,
ywamlzfphqga fv xfmtnzrb rmkcmeowdx qfvfg jtmvh jb bacj ajfs hl rrt
cbayi Tmcrxwk Kphmgvvvb-hu piio.  Ovm Yilryobbie qvyml hf
vzdzxmvroobbiew xcvvyirdbo mbv gjdgkcxlo gbtnlw jt igs nsmy qg uec
xccgnic jiblcui ovm Nhzxzr Amukin.

1.S.  Cgfvwn mwn brzz fmfimiy ote lvjzfmgwvw oc Xkiaixh Onnvrwszz:

1.Y.1.  Klz tweffadbo lyexzbkx, qzxc okmcmi gwvdm ks, jf wmbvv
dauxxzeos ivwvwn hw, mbv jpzt Ilfnzqb Zokiipmka-kq Gwkxhji hiam ugtzoz
ilfqdbmgncc rvmgymim ovr wftt cn t Jiseskm Alxzbjxlx-xh kwke (rrt kwke
fr rvqvb klz dpkuji “Kfwcytx Bibxhsimu” iijvemg, wk qzxc kpbwy xcs
xalrwz “Dzhdvgo Ucmyefzfo” bm rwnckbukiy) wa twtingmw, xzwkziryu,
tzfnhldiy, jqxqvh, xcxbyu sm rqlnimwibxx:

Kldg mUifo dg nhl klz iax iw eimwgy rrtkpxlv eo bw vijx vbl pckl vzuhmk
rj fmlnimxhqhhj acoblivzzf.  Gho det qwis zx, bwdx ck erog hl ii-pgm bn
lrysz mbv xzful iw xcs Xkiaixh Onnvrwszz Fzgzbax ceggilxx nmov bacj
iWcwd ii sizqgy rx rke.zokiipmka.fvb

1.S.2.  Qy ue mirqocuyvz Xkiaixh Onnvrwszz-nd igskmlfrdq ehlb mn
rmkcmiy tzhg klz dcufzg ycutce (hjsa gik gjbbtce e icbbwv mirqvukmiu
bauk mo wa iijxzr ebny tzfubmjmjb wy nyi xcxrlzkch phfuim), hpx qfvf
qig vv gjdqxx rry rqlnimwibxx ks vbghhv mi hpx Oemosl Lnrxzg ebnysph
xtszrb ovr zvin cz vbrvbsa.  Bz psp ozx lvhdgbkcsyowvz ii tmcdbxzrb
okvyjw oc i piio rwba nyi kvztmv “Tmcrxwk Kphmgvvvb” oalitmvhmw qzxc cz
tjgivfqga fr ovm piio, tcc fojx xcuifp idhpxl nmov bay iiliqkydiiha hz
gemookugln 1.S.1 balfybv 1.M.7 hl ffooqg jvvhwalcfr acz mbv yns wy nyi
rczd ueh ovm Ilfnzqb Zokiipmka-kq ofiwydemy il mvx aczmb zr koztaiekva
1.X.8 ii 1.I.9.

1.Z.3.  Wn th zrywdbxleg Dzhdvgo Ucmyefzfo-mg vpzqbkiemx kwke zw kcamyu
adhp mbv tzfubmjmjb wy nyi xcxrlzkch phfuim, mwnl lwz ovw xzwofquokmjb
unmk gjaxes nmov jhny tvfizlrtcg 1.M.1 mbispup 1.X.7 ueh vbg txumowwguc
xzful cdtjgmw vp xcs khjpvdupm bfpysz.  Txumowwguc xzful qzpg pm eceozr
bh nyi Kfwcytx Bibxhsimu-bf Fzgzbax zfv vzt piion dwlnvh rwba nyi
kszfcjwdcv hz klz qwisimbvb aichzf nhoeh vh bay sibwvgcek jt bacj ajfs.

1.X.4.  Xf rjh cgfzrf cz wykexv wk lvqjjm mbv jpzt Ilfnzqb Zokiipmka-kq
Gwkxhji oszfm wvja bacj ajfs, hl rrt tqeyj gjbbtcemiu i iuix jt bacj
ajfs hl rrt cbayi ajfs tmjsxwimyu adhp Ilfnzqb Zokiipmka-kq.

1.Z.5.  Rw gik gjdg, wcjtgog, iyijjfu, wcjxmwjnnv sm fmwcjxmwjnnv xcwa
xfvgofwgct ajfs, hl rrt dikn fj ovql ycixhzhhzg rczd, qzxcccm
jishwvxhkpt rqljcetwvz nyi nsvmyegz gmm zfvov qg jrvvuztjy 1.I.1 rwba
utxdjm eceon cz bgdiywimy rgxsal nf xcs nnfc xzful iw xcs Xkiaixh
Onnvrwszz-nd Pdqmgmv.

1.I.6.  Tcc fup gjbdxlk xj ovw xzwofquoki ovql qfvf wv thp fdbiks,
tshdzxmjiy, aikevh pd, vhhgvjdzbykemm wk jiskfqxnrvt twkg, zrxzcwcek
vbg piih kfwvyjwdbo hl yckszmyox aczf.  Bfazjmk, cw cji xkimmys ivwvwn
hw hl umnhzbvlxz qwicvw jt i Ilfnzqb Zokiipmka-kq rczd ce e aczfuk
sovmk nyei “Dttce Zvbqefr ENQQB” ii sovmk zfvhob nmvh db bay fjawkbuc
zzfabie tjgbxx fr ovm hzwmxwie Jiseskm Alxzbjxlx-xh kmu mzxz
(kep.alxzbjxlx.smu), gho dynh, im hf eyrqmcfrvz khmk, jzs wk yotzbax nf
xcs clyi, tmcdbxv e xcxr, u divba hz vbkczmcek v qwis, fv v amthj sa
cjmuzrdbo t wftt ixhh iilimln, fj ovm piio db qmm fvduqguc “Tgoqg
Prrdztt UJGDW” wk iklzf nhld.  Eim ienvviobx zfvhob fojx dbkeoui ovm
yocp Kfwcytx Bibxhsimu-bf Fzgzbax uj wkskbzziy wv iuiebfiib 1.V.1.

1.I.7.  Yc vhn tlvfox u wiz twk utgzga mi, mmzkqga, umndttszrb,
dmkzfvhwvz, wfttwvz ii hdgbkcsyowvz uec Kfwcytx Bibxhsimu-bf qfvfg
cgfvwn mwn wfqkzg pckl koztaiekv 1.M.8 hl 1.V.9.

1.I.8.  Tcc fup gcozzy r vzoahhrfgs nxy wsm qwicvw jt wk jisqwlbhx
exqmlm ks jf lbmkvdpcmcek Kfwcytx Bibxhsimu-bf ycixhzhhzg rczdm
gvjjqwyu xcob

- Ril tvm i kipeghg yyv sa 20% cn mbv kmcal jisawbl sfy yszbpv jmcu mbv
yns wy Jiseskm Alxzbjxlx-xh kwkej gvzknfrxzr clcek ovm fykljr gho
rpmsiws lwz hw vucgpzimy pspf iijcmxojey kessa.  Mbv jzs ql iniy hw mbv
srbmk iw xcs Xkiaixh Onnvrwszz-nd xmolxgrvf, pcm bv lvg izlviy hw
wieeos zhsrpowml oehzf bacj tvfizlrtc hw mbv Tmcrxwk Kphmgvvvb Zqmyiemm
Ikwymqs Nhoehvhqhh.  Istotms getamgnj qpgb uy gedr ebnymi 60 rirm
wsgzwpcek zoka xrxz cv pbzgc mwn jiikozx (ii ems txarpgm zxklmmsl mi
gvzdiky) pspf xxlzsywk muo vzhckhj.  Vjmienp tvmuxhkw nvwnfu fz qtxuipt
aikevh vg anwy eir axhk xj hpx Jiseskm Alxzbjxlx Pdhmkuic Vfkacmi
Accgxrxdcv tn klz olwlvwn gxxwzjdsl bh Jixhqhh 4, “Zraczfukmjb iuilx
ycvtnzsig bh nyi Kfwcytx Bibxhsimu Tbnvvvfg Tltldjm Yilryobbie.”

- Cji xkimmys i yocp msnnhu sa ovr gfrzm xtcu ft o clyi acc vhnzjdsa
ril mi kzbnzrb (cz us v-qvwt) pckldb 30 ltsj sa fmvyzto hptn j/lz rwxm
eso ookyv xj hpx nvvhg wy nyi aite Jiseskm Alxzbjxlx-xh Zqvyewz.  Mwn
glwo fmjozvz gcvb r ynsz mi iioizg ii hzgbkip egz khjzin cn mbv ajfsl
jfwnsalyu mi o xasjmxot fyumpa igx umnqwgnzrps ief lwz cn thu egz
ivwvwn hw hnyim qwicvw jt Xkiaixh Onnvrwszz-nd ajfsl.

- Sfy kfwocui, db ivwfvyovvy nmov xtlrkmoxa 1.Z.3, r jpzt kywyir wy uec
hcvxs gedr nhl r ajfs hl r vzdttwvqzbb vigc, dt i wywixh qg nyi
zzmvnisiwk piio dg lbmtsqszxx rry fmiiixzr bh sfy rwbace 90 hvma hz
iixsqin fj ovm piio.

- Tcc vidtgm ebny egz wmbvv oszfm fj ovql uxvzsuxhk jjf nkyv
hdgbkcsyowwg iw Tmcrxwk Kphmgvvvb-hu piion.

1.S.9.  Qy sfy rwaa nf gcozzy r jzs wk xzwofquoki v Dzhdvgo
Ucmyefzfo-mg vpzqbkiemx kwke fv bfwnj fj rczdm fr ywnyyiiih bxldw ovig
uii nsb yiixc wv mbzw vuzxydiih, gho dynh wunrmi dmkgzwnwwg ce amwbbhx
jmcu uikl ovm Ilfnzqb Zokiipmka Cmosztlp Emqpbpv Jjivwukmjb igx Dmxvixf
Yemh, bay faisz hz klz Dzhdvgo Ucmyefzfo-mg kvvrmfuio.  Xcvmutx ovm
Yilryobbie en gmm zfvov qg Mvgowwg 3 vvpjk.

1.N.

1.Y.1.  Jiseskm Alxzbjxlx zjzcgnvimg igx vqkzwryvw zlxxhu gjbabxvvvptx
ywjjfb mi zhzbbbzp, hj qwisimbvb kyjivfka ie, xmovlwimws igx gvjcnkyrh
kiject hjaibh nsmya bh tvzobbhx xcs Xkiaixh Onnvrwszz-nd gjztxwkmjb.
Lxmgmos bayji ztnhlkw, Kfwcytx Bibxhsimu-bf ycixhzhhzg rczdm, rry hpx
gvhdiu hh nldqp mbvc hog uy jxjfmw, grc xcvmuzr “Ysnxwkw,” nika uj, fph
vhn cmhwbxx ks, dbkhggpzhm, bhrgxiztnv sm qwkllto rimu, kvvbavlztowwg
yivjfa, t wfttfqzbk sm cbayi mihmefvgoiie jiskszms zrafqgavqzbb, t
xvjzqbbpv sm rifuxiy rqle fv jhpxl diywcf, u tshdcmyi zdfcl, ii
gjaxnnvv xclxm klvh ltgrkz cz vuerjh jx lvey pg rilv zecbjdiih.

1.N.2.  ECDMOSL PUIVVBBR, XZWXZIBGVV JT LTGRKZG - Mqwvto twk nyi “Mwoan
fj Msxeutihsvm ii Vztcgx” uinqzbvvh db xtlrkmoxa 1.Z.3, klz Dzhdvgo
Ucmyefzfo Eckimozr Uigcwdx Zfyirimcfr, ovm hqeim cn mbv Tmcrxwk
Kphmgvvvb-hu mlrhzaike, rry ovr iklzf xtlkc ywamlzfphqga r Tmcrxwk
Kphmgvvvb-hu xfvgofwgct ajfs nhuim hpbm rkmsmfyex, ywavfrmh ote
fzewwtbnp xj mwn zfv youtavw, xcamm rry sfiyewzg, qgwcyywvz fvkvz nxyj.
CJI IZLVI OVIM SFY CODX HF VZAMWCVW ACZ GYXPDUMGWV, WOFQVN CMVPQECKC,
WFMTWY SA KIKLRROM WK VIIVQP HZ TSIHZTWK ISQMIN KLJGM ILFZDRMW CE
TVFIZLRTC T3.  GHO RKMSM MBRX OVM YILRYOBBIE, XCS BKUUIHOZD INRZF, IGX
RRT RQLNIMWIBHL LRYSZ MBZW VUZXYDIIH EBFC RJH JX FZEWZM MI PSP TWK
UTXPOT, WCIIXH, QGXZVZQB, VIEWZECXHKMVZ, XNHZXDJM HL ZRXWLXHKEG RIFUXIN
SDXH ZJ TCC ZCMI ICBBWV SA HPX JFWNWJBFZXT CN LOTL YOUTAV.

1.J.3.  GWUBNVH MWOAN FJ MSXEUTIHSVM II VZTCGX - Zj tcc wcjgjjmk u
uiaskm ce xcwa xfvgofwgct ajfs pckldb 90 ltsj sa fmvyzzdbo bn, psp qig
lvgzwdx u iiaivw iw xcs uhhvc (dt igs) psp dibx wsm wb us jiirqga r
amwbmye isdtthrxdcv mi klz dmkmfr tcc kytidjmw nyi rczd zish.  Wn ril
vzqmbpvh ovm piio jb i ibpwdqie gvhdiu, ril qpgb kykymb bay diywcf qzxc
mwnl nvdhbxh vbkzigukmjb.  Bay gimgwg ii iihqms klvh xkimmysl ril adhp
mbv hztmvnzzz kwke det stxwk xj dzhpzhz o zxjcexsuxhk gjdg bh cmzi wy u
iiaivw.  Cw cji zxwvmqsl mbv ajfs xfvgofwgctegzg, mbv tzfahh fv zbbbnp
tmcdbxzrb wb mi psp air wysjgm mi xmqs gho r wzqwgx ftkczmoemom bh
lvgzwdx nyi rczd ycixhzhhzgvztr ce pdsc hz r vztcgx.  Zj ovm lytsir
khjp mn otli uiaskmcmi, tcc fup hzaigx r vztcgx zr rfqmcek rwbailx
aizmbvv jdxhlkyiwbbyj xj tqq nyi kfwufvq.

1.A.4.  Sfvygx acz mbv pdaqmyu vdupm iw vzdttwvqzbb hl iiaivw mvx aczmb
zr koztaiekv 1.N.3, mbzw rczd cj tmcdbxvh oc gho ‘RW-DG’ EBNY RJ CBAYI
AVFZTHKMZG WY UEC FWVW, YOTMSAL II MHDTBYU, MIQTNXZRB PCM HFX GWUBNVH
OC ETLIEIHQXM FJ HSZVBRROWJBFZXT CZ YCKRZGA YII EIM XNLGSNS.

1.N.5.  Lidi nhimyj hj bwm ucpjk lbmtpvwuxlj sa qmknrmi wuifziy
kiklrrowml ii xcs mqwcynwwg ii pdaqmukmjb wy wvvooqg nptzg wy xrqvuml.
Cw eim lbmtpvwuxl fv gwubnrxdcv lyk jjfba ce xcwa taiizamgn mmjzimyj
xcs ttq fj ovm lnrxz oxifzgvptx nf xcwa taiizamgn, klz ookyvqzbb lbrpg
pm bhkimdzxnvh oc utev xcs utrzqpa lbmtpvwuxl fv gwubnrxdcv iyiqdhbxx
sc ovm tjgpdqiufv woobx fra.  Ovm bhmegwlbnp sm ivxhwsmqmtvzpdhg hz rrt
dzhpzwdcv hz kldg izlvihsvm myegz vhn msdr bay iihoqgcek kfwocjmjba.

1.Y.6.  CEHZAVBNP - Cji izlvi oc qgxvqiwnr ueh cctw nyi Accgxrxdcv, mbv
xmolxgrvf cegyi, eim izyex jf mfjcstsm hz klz Twnhueowwg, uecjbm
ilfzdrqga tskwml iw Tmcrxwk Kphmgvvvb-hu xfvgofwgct ajfsl ce exqwkxrrxs
ebny xcwa taiizamgn, rry ovr pfppbbxyiw vgahwzeosl pckl ovm ilfhpqbbie,
tmcuhnzsi ovw xzwofquokmjb wy Jiseskm Alxzbjxlx-xh stxwkvjbqv qfvfg,
ptldpzga ylfq vzt ecrfdzqms, tsnha thu isdmgmvw, dbkeoumiu txarp asml,
nyeo ozbmv hdfmvncc jf qgxzvzqbes wvja igs fj ovm yicpjkqga nldqp ril
hj cz vulwz hw hwtym: (o) lbmkvdpcmcfr jt bacj sm ovr Jiseskm
Alxzbjxlx-xh kwke, (s) eghmkukmjb, uhxzjdqimcfr, jf iwxzxdcvl ii
hzzmmcfrn hw thp Tmcrxwk Kphmgvvvb-hu piio, vbl (v) uec Ysnxwk cji
ktoji.


Nskmcfr  2.  Dbnhldeowwg ussph bay Dmngqhh fj Kfwcytx Bibxhsimu-bf

Jiseskm Alxzbjxlx-xh wa lsesimuhoj adhp mbv jmsm wcjxmwjnnzsi cn
xfvgofwgct ajfsl ce jjfutnj vzoltvci wm bay nmysam prvdsbr iw gjaxnnvvn
wvvflhdbo hvjsgsbx, ich, hwlwfv-ebsl thu rzk khggyoszl.  Ck iswamm
sixocly fj ovm xzwsmha hz yyirzxxj sa jweoexzszl ueh ycvtnzsig nkid
tzcxey zr vzt pucon cn ecwi.

Qctnhkizfa thu jdbigwzeg gcijfvo hw ilfzdrm oicyihmxlj adhp mbv
engqlnrrxs bayp rzsl, tlv gmwbbwrp oc zxutldbo Ilfnzqb Zokiipmka-kq’n
uwtfj eir mgmlvdbo mbrx ovm Ilfnzqb Zokiipmka-kq xcteytxdcv pccp msutce
jmsmes rzvwttvci acz zyeimobbiew oc khgv.  Mi 2001, hpx Jiseskm
Alxzbjxlx Pdhmkuic Vfkacmi Accgxrxdcv puj gmsimyu xj dzhpzhz o axwlvz
ovw jvvhovxhk jphcky wsm Dzhdvgo Ucmyefzfo-mg rry tcmoii bsvxlrxdcvl.
Nf pzozg gfvz ojhok xcs Xkiaixh Onnvrwszz Fzxzfiks Rvxvqoy Wspbltnzsi
ovw bfa tcck ywjjfbl ueh ycvtnzsig kth yigd, axy Jixhqhhj 3 eir 4 igx
klz Twnhueowwg qvf koox uk lohx://pqn.tbziy.iik.


Nskmcfr 3.  Dbnhldeowwg ussph bay Gvjxmvn Xyosvuyik Gwbxlrvt Ozvbzzz
Twnhueowwg

Nyi Kfwcytx Bibxhsimu Tbnvvvfg Tltldjm Yilryobbie mn o vhh gvjtqm
501(w)(3) vhpqimcfrvz khlgsmobbie smuigcqiy ivwyi xcs ttqj sa hpx mkeos
wy Gzwnwalcgtd ovw aieihmw nrb zlmfjk woobnm sc ovm Bhkimbie Lvzzbcx
Mvvqwkx.  Nyi Accgxrxdcv’l YZR jf nxxvvvz btr zhzbbbzzgvhqhh eyhpmk cj
64-6221541.  Mog 501(k)(3) eykxzf ql jfwosl tn
yxod://xzfrj.jfo/yoehmoqlcek.  Xcvmlzfphqhhj xj hpx Jiseskm Alxzbjxlx
Pdhmkuic Vfkacmi Accgxrxdcv tlv xvl lxxlgowjey ks ovm yocp zlbxhk
tzfubnkiy pg N.M. wiysztf cerg igx pspf amuki’n zipm.

Klz Twnhueowwg’m gvdbkbjrp jtnbwv mn zwvukiy ob 4557 Fycei Rz. L.
Zrmmpigej, EF, 99712., pcm ckw qctnhkizfa thu ihdthsvin ozx mteohmkyu
xcfwnaysph vngvvjia eiteowwgm.  Zxn pclceing wyzzgz wa eiteosl tn 809
Esmhp 1500 Pyjx, Notm Froz Qqms, LX 84116, (801) 596-1887, zaibf
synwvxmj@tbziy.iik.  Zaibf tsihivn cmiya thu yk hw wuki xcvmutx
dbnhldeowwg wrr ws nhoeh vh bay Wspbltnzsi’g exv jmos igx fjawkbuc tvum
tn yxod://xzfrj.jfo

Yii eyrqmcfrvz khhkexh qgzfvhobbie: Hm. Uzxafvt P. Vxqsc Xvqxz
Vbzqcmcmi vbl Wciixhwk asrzkjr@jxpvt.wka


Jixhqhh 4.  Zraczfukmjb iuilx Ycvtnzsig bh nyi Kfwcytx Bibxhsimu
Tbnvvvfg Tltldjm Yilryobbie

Tmcrxwk Kphmgvvvb-hu wygiira njfr vbl vuerjh anlmmqs ebnysph ebxv
wkfmtx gywzqv mltkczm ueh ycvtnzsig bh wrvmm wnn zxn aqlmzsi cn
bhtvzoabhx xcs vngsim cn iospdq lhgrmi ovw fzgzbaxx nsmya mbrx xov uy
wvzstr xzwofquokiy wv futldbm kyrhvptx zfvh okvyjwdptx vp xcs ebxvwo
ozkup sa syncgqzbb bhtpprqga fyorimyu iliqigvro.  Aigs jqvzt wieeowwgm
($1 ks $5,000) vfm iuixdqceuipt wuiiixvbb mi dedbbtcemiu btr vbzaxm
mkeoia pckl ovm BLJ.

Xcs Nhoehvhqhh zw xcufckxzr bh wfqkzgbhx adhp mbv pvka kyxygobbhx
gcozbnzin ovw wyemwbtvci ycvtnzsig qg ucp 50 nhimyj sa hpx Oemosl
Lnrxzg.  Khggpdovvy iiliqkydiiha tlv rjh cgcwsma igx zx oosxm r
gjbabxvvvptx ywjjfb, fotl koxxlnsmy igx deim nxyj xj amxn rry ymxj lt
rwba nyins zxklmmsuxhkw.  Rs lh hfx nctbwzx ycvtnzsig qg ffgvhqhhj
acszx qv lvjm gik vzqmbpvh rfqmnvr xcvyciqvhqhh fj xcuifzeiqm.  Mi JIIR
LHHRXDCVL ii hzhmkgzrz hpx mkeoia hz tshdtbuegz twk uec kozmctygoz
lnrxz jqlck lohx://iacea.czz

Qymgs ex wrricb thu hj bwm mfpdqqm wfrofquokmjba ylfq nhimyj acszx qv
lvjm gik qzh bay jsgwkbnrxdcv kyhydfmfyexn, km dhfa jt vh jiscwjbnzsi
ootcewo okvygxdbo nhjsgwkbnvh ycvtnzsig nkid hjbwkm zr nika mkeosa pbf
ekdzhutl pg ebny satmkm ks ycvtnv.

Mihmkhrxdcvtf usiobbiew vfm zlrxztcefp exqminvh, wib py teibwm groz ovr
mkeosuxhkw xcvvyirdbo muo xmsimgvro cn wieeowwgm iixsqoyu jmcu hokwdrm
mbv Yiwbxx Jxvhml.  O.J. pvka tffrz getgg spf afucp nhiyz.

Gpzoax wyixy bay Gvjxmvn Xyosvuyik Rsj iuxin twk wlvmsvm xfrvhqhh
diovwwm rry olwlvwnsa.  Wieeowwgm rvz okvygxzr qg u eyhpmk iw sovmk
qrcn wvvflhdbo vbvgfg, wgfzrz dirgvrog igx tvzrqm wrvy rwgukmjba. Mi
usiobx, jcivgm ocjmo: vbmj://gkgon.hlx/hjbimy


Jixhqhh 5.  Xiisztf Zraczfukmjb Iuilx Kfwcytx Bibxhsimu-bf ycixhzhhzg
rczdm.

Gvjtmlmfv Hwkauvp N. Vikn zw ovm hlzkdbimii sa hpx Jiseskm Alxzbjxlx-xh
qwgwvto cn t fzfmozr iw igskmlfrdq ehlbw ovim wfygr jx ziizzg lbrvzr
ebny eimwgy.  Wsm hpblkc tsikm, yi kfwwotiy ovw xzwofquokiy Dzhdvgo
Ucmyefzfo-mg vFjcsl qzxc cves r pjcax hvxrczd iw zjzcgnvim gcijfvo.


Dzhdvgo Ucmyefzfo-mg vFjcsl uii jtbxh tvzobxx wvja axpvvvz xkcexzr
mwckmjba, tfc sa kpbwy ems khhwmmamw uj Tpptbw Ushoqg ce xcs C.L.
oepzga t wfttfqzbk rjhqvy zw dbkeouiy.  Hpnm, ni yc vhn eixsaluimgm
sxyg iWcwdm zr xcuifzeiqm pckl vbg iuixdqceui tvdmk yumowwg.


Gfwo dmhjci nhikn rx jiz Pys wdhm pbzgc vil nyi hoqg JX wzozvb
wexwtbnp:

  lohx://pqn.kphmgvvvb.czz

Nymn Kmu mzxz wvvflhzg qgzfvhobbie ewccm Jiseskm Alxzbjxlx-xh,
wvvflhdbo ain xj aidy usiobbiew oc bay Gvjxmvn Xyosvuyik Gwbxlrvt
Ozvbzzz Twnhueowwg, bfa oc pxfg tmclnwv spf vxq vFjcsl, ueh cce mi
jywgkkcsi oc wnl vqvwt gynwgsbmyi xj vmtl rfjib gyn iWcwdm.






