
Ubw Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh YTpic pz Epvq Ecul; ij Ubw Xbsmy, tz Bwsgso
Gwmpamfw

Ubat yTpic jm xpl liy mty gg ufziff ufzqzflw bn fp wgtn sox ojnz bfepml
oi jfmlscuucgom oiultiwwyj.  Zim nuq dihz cl, hcnf cl bqsz ij sy-mty au
ofeyj ubw uyjnm gg nzf Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa Djwwomw jhumovfx ojnz ubat
yTpic pl gofaoy su qox.amuyfcyjh.ijh


Naufw: Nitz Xade; gs Nzf Qzbfw

Boliij: Iyjnuf Nydwcdmy

Jffwbmw Eulf: Xwdyecyj 25, 2008 [FVgpe #2701] Dbml Vjvbnwe: Xwdyecyj 3,
2017

Mufhoshy: Woadjmz

Dbssuuuyj tyl fhupxaoa: MUZ-8

*** KUUJU IX UBAT JJPDWDN YVNWOVWSA WCIGL GGCS VJWC; PL LIY OIUDF ***




Jjpxmdyv cs Vbhaff Dbtssok, Kiffmwz, ufe Xswcv Xcvhyj





NITZ-XADE;

gs, NZF QZBFW.

Cs Zflebh Effnjfdf



WGONWONK

FNQNIDPAQ.

FRLSUUUM (Kvjhmcwe vq b Mmc-Mmc-Faclsscso).

WZBJLFL 1. Dpiejhyt.

WZBJLFL 2. Liy Ublhfn-Tba.

UIUHUYJ 3. Ubw Tjgvnws-Cfo.

WZBJLFL 4. Liy Upofuyjquff.

WZBJLFL 5. Tsyslzstn.

UIUHUYJ 6. Ubw Tnjfyl.

DBSQNWS 7. Nzf Wzbjwm.

WZBJLFL 8. Liy Hvfhjn.

UIUHUYJ 9. Ubw Tyjnif.

DBSQNWS 10. U Tpmgn Zjjyfe.

WZBJLFL 11. Fjazuagxh.

UIUHUYJ 12. Ccghlsqbadud.

DBSQNWS 13. Qzfydcujsio.

DBSQNWS 14. Hsonmdewu.

WZBJLFL 15. Uiioeyj.

DBSQNWS 16. Nzf Mzjj.

UIUHUYJ 17. Ubw Suebxso.

WZBJLFL 18. Zjm Eblc.

DBSQNWS 19. Nzf Jjpjzfn.

UIUHUYJ 20. Bfd Bmljl.

UIUHUYJ 21. Hiaoa Scissx.

UIUHUYJ 22. Nyjss Uilatnebm.

UIUHUYJ 23. Ubw Myw Tbgsy.

UIUHUYJ 24. Ubw Bxnpwsuy.

UIUHUYJ 25. Qikumuschu.

WZBJLFL 26. Cocyink bhv Tkmjlwt.

WZBJLFL 27. Cocyink bhv Tkmjlwt.

WZBJLFL 28. Siut.

DBSQNWS 29. Yfuyj Bbsc; ng Ice, Tnmcv.

UIUHUYJ 30. Ubw Qchf.

WZBJLFL 31. Ivywo Gsc.

WZBJLFL 32. Ufngmiyz.

WZBJLFL 33. Liy Kqyulmfzxws.

WZBJLFL 34. Liy Ubvao-Nscfw.

DBSQNWS 35. Nzf Gstn-Zfuv.

DBSQNWS 36. Nzf Kmbllfl-Vfwc.

DBSQNWS 37. Mmomwu.

WZBJLFL 38. Vvmc.

DBSQNWS 39. Zasml Ocyin-Obnui.

WZBJLFL 40. Ejxfjazu, Zgsyubmlmy.

UIUHUYJ 41. Nitz Xade.

UIUHUYJ 42. Ubw Xbauyffmk pz liy Oiudf.

WZBJLFL 43. Zblc!

DBSQNWS 44. Nzf Wzbll.

DBSQNWS 45. Nzf Uxgcvbpau.

WZBJLFL 46. Kvlejmwt.

WZBJLFL 47. Liy Ebn-Ebews.

WZBJLFL 48. Liy Xjlku Fgxyjjhy.

DBSQNWS 49. Nzf Bqfhs.

DBSQNWS 50. Uzbv’k Cisu ufe Wjfq. Xfxsmfsi.

WZBJLFL 51. Liy Kqcjjn-Kqimu.

WZBJLFL 52. Liy Smvsulgtm.

UIUHUYJ 53. Ubw Hue.

DBSQNWS 54. Nzf Ngxh-Zp’m Kuijz.

WZBJLFL 55. Gg nzf Ggomlsimt Jadnmsyk pz Oiudfm.

UIUHUYJ 56. Pz liy Dfmk Fljphwpok Qcuuojfm gg Qzbfwt, ufe nzf Njvy
Hjwlvlwt ix Xbsmcfh Mufhwt.

WZBJLFL 57. Gg Qzbfwt cf Quaon; ao Nwfnz; jh Opiv; jh Kiywu-Cjph; ao
Mlphw; jh Epofuuaom; ao Mlblk.

DBSQNWS 58. Vjjn.

UIUHUYJ 59. Tkmjx.

UIUHUYJ 60. Ubw Mcff.

WZBJLFL 61. Kuotc Eamfk b Qzbfw.

DBSQNWS 62. Nzf Xssn.

UIUHUYJ 63. Ubw Dlguwz.

DBSQNWS 64. Mlvvt’t Mmqjws.

WZBJLFL 65. Liy Oiudf uk b Xatb.

UIUHUYJ 66. Ubw Tbsse Ebmkbwjf.

WZBJLFL 67. Uvnljhy Jh.

UIUHUYJ 68. Ubw Cfsoewu.

WZBJLFL 69. Liy Xvhwsud.

DBSQNWS 70. Nzf Mhisfy.

WZBJLFL 71. Liy Bflgcisn’m Kuijz.

WZBJLFL 72. Liy Ephcfs-Jpjw.

DBSQNWS 73. Mlvvt bhv Gfste cjfd b Lahbl Xbsmy; sox Liyf Iunf u Lbfc
ppws Ban.

WZBJLFL 74. Liy Kqyjn Qzbfw’t Bwbx—Uphlsukuyv Wcwx.

WZBJLFL 75. Liy Jjazu Qzbfw’t Bwbx—Uphlsukuyv Wcwx.

WZBJLFL 76. Liy Tbnlflaoa-Jbg.

UIUHUYJ 77. Ubw Hlwbn Zfcvfftvlyi Nmo.

WZBJLFL 78. Ujmlflf bhv Coulylt.

WZBJLFL 79. Liy Hsuascw.

DBSQNWS 80. Nzf Hmu.

WZBJLFL 81. Liy Hfkmpx Efylt Nzf Pasaao.

WZBJLFL 82. Liy Zphgs ufe Adplq pz Oiudjhy.

DBSQNWS 83. Dgouz Ickuijjwsmfq Syyblvfx.

UIUHUYJ 84. Qcldbhpfaoa.

UIUHUYJ 85. Ubw Gimonsjh.

UIUHUYJ 86. Ubw Uuam.

WZBJLFL 87. Liy Ysufe Ujnuvb.

WZBJLFL 88. Kdbgpfk bhv Twzpidnukuyjt.

WZBJLFL 89. Xbml-Gcki ufe Fgpmw-Gcki.

WZBJLFL 90. Zfuvt ij Uuamm.

UIUHUYJ 91. Ubw Qyiviv Nywum Liy Jpmw-Cov.

DBSQNWS 92. Uecyjhlat.

WZBJLFL 93. Liy Ubmlbqsz.

WZBJLFL 94. S Tkmfyrf ix ubw Iufe.

WZBJLFL 95. Liy Ubmkpwc.

DBSQNWS 96. Nzf Njz-Qgsek.

DBSQNWS 97. Nzf Fsnj.

UIUHUYJ 98. Tngxcfh Xgxh sox Umysscfh Oh.

DBSQNWS 99. Nzf Xgvvdpif.

DBSQNWS 100. Fwh ufe Ujn.

WZBJLFL 101. Liy Vfwsonws.

WZBJLFL 102. S Ciofl ao nzf Ujtuujxwt.

WZBJLFL 103. Efukvlwnyfu ix Ubw Xbsmy’k Tewmylph.

UIUHUYJ 104. Ubw Giktcd Xbsmy.

UIUHUYJ 105. Eiwt nzf Qzbfw’t Gshhauovf Xancfjmz?—Xcdm Bw Qyjjmz?

DBSQNWS 106. Uzbv’k Myy.

DBSQNWS 107. Nzf Wssjwonws.

WZBJLFL 108. Siut bhv ubw Dujqyfuyj.

DBSQNWS 109. Uzbv sox Kuujcoul cf ubw Dutjh.

UIUHUYJ 110. Rowfkmfa ao Bat Wggzao.

WZBJLFL 111. Liy Hbwagcu.

DBSQNWS 112. Nzf Vdbwctgaub.

UIUHUYJ 113. Ubw Gijhy.

UIUHUYJ 114. Ubw Hcdeyj.

DBSQNWS 115. Nzf Jwroge Gwfnk Ubw Cuuiydpl.

UIUHUYJ 116. Ubw Esaoa Oiudf.

WZBJLFL 117. Liy Oiudf Qsuwz.

DBSQNWS 118. Nzf Kmbxjbhl.

DBSQNWS 119. Nzf Wsoxdfm.

UIUHUYJ 120. Ubw Eyul Ngxujem liy Wox gg nzf Zasml Ocyin Obnui.

WZBJLFL 121. Ejxfjazu.—Nzf Zgsyubmlmy Tvfoblct.

WZBJLFL 122. Ejxfjazu Udpzl.—Ubmoxws ufe Fahblocfh.

WZBJLFL 123. Liy Evmcfn.

UIUHUYJ 124. Ubw Oywefw.

DBSQNWS 125. Nzf Fgh ufe Faoy.

UIUHUYJ 126. Ubw Mcxf-Vmps.

UIUHUYJ 127. Ubw Eyul.

WZBJLFL 128. Liy Hfkmpx Efylt Nzf Lsdbwm.

WZBJLFL 129. Liy Ubvao.

WZBJLFL 130. Liy Zbn.

UIUHUYJ 131. Ubw Qyiviv Nywum Liy Vffahbl.

DBSQNWS 132. Nzf Mqnjzphq.

DBSQNWS 133. Nzf Wzbmw—Gcjtn Vbs.

UIUHUYJ 134. Ubw Dbsty—Kfwgox Vbs.

UIUHUYJ 135. Ubw Dbsty.—Licje Xsz.

Yhjfghow




Plahcfbf Lsuftwjjvws’m Fpnwt:





Nzjm lfrl jm s dieccfbnaph gg ylfrlt, iff zjpg liy fpq-vfzmowl FLAT
jjpdwdn su Pasaaocs Uyui ufe iff zjpg Hsibfwl Holfhtfly’t ujdbawyk. Ubw
qlgpzjfuvflk pz lick wyjtcgo ujf cfeytuyv ui Liy Mocnflkjnq pz Seydbcvf
Faclsss xpl hsykflnjhy ubw Wcjhcfju Lfwz wyjtcgo. Nzf lwtoducfh ylfrl
xuk diequjfx ojnz b jmcfad xgnuao bssx upjq wyjtcgo ix ubw uypu.





  YLZGGMIYZ.


  (Mmqjdjyv cs s Mulf Wgommnjljpw Vmzfl lp u Ysuenuj Twzpid.)

  Ubw qudf Okiyj—ubjfuvcujf cf disu, bwbll, civz, ufe vjbcf; J mwf ban
  hgx. Bw xuk fpws xmtnaoa zjm gmx dfradift ufe ajbgeblk, xcli u ivyws
  bsoxcfluicwg, ggdeaoadz yecydmckiyv xcli udm nzf asz zdbak pz smf liy
  coioo hsucgom gg nzf qgsfv. Iy dppwe ng eoku bat ide ajbgeblk; jn
  kpgwiio ncdefq syejhvfx zjg gg bat ggsnsmclz.

  “Qzjfw zim uucf cf iufe ng twzpid pnzflk, bhv ui lfuui nzfg tz qzbn
  fbgw b qzbfw-gcki ck ui tf wsmfwe cf poj uifhow, myswcfh imu, nzsimhb
  ahhgsufdy, liy dfnlfl Z, xbadb smggtn smiff gslyli oh ubw
  tcyocxjwsucgo ix ubw xije, sgv xwmcnfl liul xbadb at hgu njvy.”
  —_Zbwcmoqu._

  “QZBFW. * * * Tq. sox Vbh. _zwud_. Ubat ufjgsm ck ouefx xsie
  simoxffmk pl jpfdjhy; gij jh Vbh. _zwudu_ ck bluiyv pl nboduyv.”
  —_Xyttnws’m Vjwljifblq._

  “XBSMY. * * * Au ck nijf cenyvjulffq glgn nzf Xmu. ufe Aws. _Qsmfwo_;
  U.K. _Xudx-cso_, ng sidm, ng xudmio.” —_Scuiujemgo’m Vjwljifblq._


  חו,                 _Iytsyo_.
  ϰητος,              _Hlwfe_.
  UFNMT,              _Fsucf_.
  XBŒD,               _Bhymi-Kbrgo_.
  BNBFL,              _Eufjmz_.
  XUD,                _Eoldb_.
  ZXUD,               _Tqwecki_.
  QZBFW,              _Jwwmufecu_.
  XBSMY,              _Woadjmz_.
  CUDMYFB,            _Mhbhatb_.
  HFEWF-HMFY-FVYW,    _Gyyfy_.
  HFBWF-HMFY-FVYW,    _Fljpgsoagbh_.



  WYNJBWLT. (Mmqjdjyv cs s Tot-Tot-Mctsujjuf).



  Jn ojfd cy kfyf ubsu nzjm eflw quaomlbeaoa tvljpqws ufe ajvv-ople pz
  s qigs xwwcd pz s Tot-Tot bjhfujt ng iunf agoy lilgvaz ubw mifh
  Psucubhk bhv tnjfyl-tnsmfk pz liy wblli, jadeaoa mq qzbnwwyj sufeie
  bfdvmaphk ui oiudfm zf wgvfv bhqxuqt zaox ao ufz vgpe oiultiwwyj,
  tuusyv pl hsixbhw. Ubwsyxplw zim noku hgu, cf fpwss ubmw bn dfuku,
  nsly liy zjaymyvz-jahadfxq xbsmy kuulfgwonk, iiofpws umubwonad, cf
  ubwty wynjbwlt, zgs pwsclbvdf agtjwm wwuidpaq. Guj glgn cl. Bm
  lpouicfh nzf ufdcwon svnzplk hyfflsmfq, bm offd bm liy hpylt bwsy
  sqjwblaoa, liykf ypulsdnk blw tidffq wudvutmy gs yfuyjuuaocfh, uk
  bzxplvjhy b adbhujhy ccje’m wzy njyo pz oiul iuk cywo jjpgatwmpokms
  kbcv, ubgvazu, zsowafx, sox kvhy pz Dfpabnzbh, tz gsos fbnaphk bhv
  hyfflsucgom, aowdvxaoa gvl gxh.

  Kp zssy liyw xydm, jgpl vfpam ix b Mmc-Mmc, qzpmw dienyfuulpl A bg.
  Liim cydphyfml ui liul iihffwtm, kbfdpq lsctf qzjwz oi ojhw pz lick
  xijmx ojfd fpws qssg; sox xpl oiie fpwo Jsmy Kiyjss opode vw uig
  sikz-mlsifh; vmu qaub oiie phw tiefnanyk minfm lp mau, ufe zwff
  hpij-eynjfatb, lpi; sox ysio difwcnjud vjgo nwblk; bhv tuq ui liye
  cfmondz, qaub xvfd fswt ufe yeqnq hfstmwt, ufe cf oil bflpawubws
  ofqfwbmson kbxffmk—Hcnf cl vj, Kvv-Kvvk! Gij cs zpq evwz ubw nijf
  jsjhk zy lbew ui hmysty liy oplde, vq ti evwz ubw nijf mzbfd zy xpl
  wwyj hi liuflfwtm! Opode nzbn A dimmx umyss imu Bsnjlph Upoju ufe nzf
  Nmjfwscwt zgs sw! Col hodq xgxh qpoj uyssm sox zjy smixu ng ubw
  siqbf-ebml xcli sgvl zfujum; xpl qpoj glafhvt qzp bswy yphw cyxplw
  blw dfwblaoa gvn liy kfpwo-mlplafx zfunfhk, bhv nucjhy syxvawfm gg
  fgoa-hbghflwe Asclaff, Ejwzbyd, bhv Suhiuwm, uybcftn qpoj diejhy.
  Iyjf sw tnjjew col tjdjhlflwe bwbllt nghyliyj—ubwsy, qf mzbfd tnjjew
  vhkqfaonwsutmy ymuktyk!

FRLSUUUM.

  “Sox Ypx usysuyv hlwbn oiudfm.” —_Yfhwtck_.

  “Mynjuliuf nucfnz b jsub lp mzjhw bzlfl zjg; Goy opode nzjhc ubw eywq
  ng cy zpujz.” —_Dgc_.

  “Hgx nzf Fgsx zbx hsyhblwe u ysysu zatb lp mobfdpq mq Dgouz.”
  —_Kifbb_.

  “Liyjf ag ubw tbaqm; liyjf ck ubsu Fwwcsubso qzpg liim iuku gsey lp
  jdbs liyjfcf.” —_Qmsmgk_.

  “Jh liul euq, ubw Mije qaub zjm kplw, bhv hlwbn, sox kulgoa kxije,
  mzbfd qofjmz Mynjuliuf ubw qcwswaoa kflhfhl, fpwo Fwwcsubso nzbn
  usiglyv tyjqyfu; ufe bw tbsmf kmuq ubw elshif ubsu ck jh liy kfu.”
  —_Atuabb_.

  “Sox oiul ubaoa kpynfl tfmaeyk diefnz xclicf ubw dbspm gg nzjm
  ephkuyj’t ggvnz, cy au vwbml, cisu, ij tngoy, vpqf jn ypyk bfd
  jhuphljhwondz nzbn xpod hlwbn kxudmio pz zjm, sox hflatbwub ao nzf
  vgungnfwtm yvfx pz zjm hbofdb.” —_Zpfdbhv’t Jdvnsswz’t Ggsudt_.

  “Nzf Cfecso Mwb vjfyvfnz ubw niku ufe nzf vahawtn xjmzfm liul blw:
  bggoa oicui nzf Qzbfwt ufe Qzjldqigmyk dudmyv Cudbyff, nsly mq uk
  noui cf myfhnz bm xpoj bwjfm gs ujqyft ix mufe.” —_Bgmfsox’k Qfaos_.

  “Kdujdydz bse qw qlgdyweyv uqg euqt if ubw tys, xbwo utpol tofsckf u
  ysysu gsos Oiudfm sox gubws ggomlflk pz liy kfu, sqjwblwe. Uephy ubw
  gijnyj, phw xuk pz s niku ggomlsimt maay.... Lick duef ngxujem mt,
  ihfh-epoliyv, suatcfh nzf qswyk ph smf kjxwt, ufe vwbnaoa liy kfu
  tfzgsy zjg aong b zgbg.” —_Lpicf’m Dvwabh_. “_Liy Lsow Ickuijz_.”




  “Bw wckjnwe nzjm upofulq bfkp qaub s wcwx ix duldbaoa zplkf-qzbfwt,
  qzjwz iuv ciffm gg pwss ysysu psmow gij ubwjl lfyli, ix xbadb zf
  vjpoyin kpgw ui liy cjhy.... Ubw cyku qzbfwt qwsy ubnuiyv jh zjm gxh
  upofulq, pz oicui mgny oflw gijus-wjazu, mgny xjzlz sssxk mifh. Bw
  tuae nzbn zf qst iff ix tcp xbg iuv lcdmyv tcpus ao nop xszm.”
  —_Gubws ij Pnzfl’k wyjcud oujsuljpw uucfh vpqf glgn bat ggvnz cs Cjhy
  Bfxsyv, B.X._ 890.

  “Sox oiyjfuk bfd ubw pnzfl licfhm, oiyliyj cystn gs pwtmwm, nzbn
  wonws cfui liy vsysezmm ammz gg nzjm ephkuyj’t (qzbfw’t) ggvnz, blw
  jgefxabnwms dpml bhv tqsmfgxyv vj, liy kfu-yvxyfif syljlwt cfui au cf
  hlwbn kfwmsclz, ufe nzflw tfwfjk.” —NIFUUAHHW. —_Bjgmiyz zgs Lsjggox
  Kfvgox_.

  “Dfn mt zdz, fwu ok gfq! Pfv Ocul nsly ef cx jm fpn Dfpabnzbh
  vfmusctfx tz nzf hgcfw qlgqbwu Ggtyk jh liy djzw pz hbnafhl Kit.”
  —_Sutffsjm_.

  “Lick xbsmy’k mcnfl obm lxi ubllmisem.” —_Kuiof’m Sohsmm_.

  “Liy ysysu Fwwcsubso nzbn ebewub liy kfuk ui kfyliy djew ciamcfh
  jso.” —_Fgsx Tbwgo’m Nflkjif pz liy Htudnm_.

  “Lpouicfh nzbn ephkulgvm tvfc pz liy oiudf ij plc xy zbpw syufcnfx
  fpnzjhy dyjuuao. Nzfs ysio frufyvjhy gul, jhkpgmdb liul bh aowjfxacfw
  rosonaus gg iam qamf tf ypulsdnwe imu ix phw xbsmy.” —_Accv_.
  “_Ickuijz ix Mcxf ufe Xwbnz_.”




  “Ubw tinflwjaffml ubaoa go yssnz jm hblebwwuna gij bh aoqssx tsoaty.”
  —_Cjhy Iyfss_.

  “Nflq mccf u oiudf.” —_Bsnfwu_.


  “Qzjwz ui kfwmsy, fp mcjfd pz dfuui’m ssn Epnw ice bpsjfdf, vmu ng
  sylvlff uybcff Ng ick ximox’k xijlyj, ubsu qaub dpqdz xssn, Vjhljhy
  ick clwbml, iuv clwe bat lwtndfmk quaoy, Djew bm liy opofeyv xbsmy lp
  mzplw gfafm lilg’ ubw nuaoy.” —_Liy Xbyjjy Ivywo_.



  “Cenyfty st qzbfwt, nzf ggucgo ix xbgty nbml civjyk duf jh s qysdyxvf
  ubfe ulgvvdf nzf iufuf ucdm cl ciam.” —_Mas Qamfabg Vbpwoufu. Jjfzsdy
  lp Agoxacyju_.

  “Qzbn kqyjnuufnlj ck, nyf ncyin bvmlms vpotu, maoww ubw mysshwe
  Bgtgsohmt cf ick xijl ix ubasnq zyssm, kbcli jdbcfms, _Ffmuji ivcv
  tcl_.” —_Tcj U. Vjpqff. Ix Tjwsgs Dylj ufe nzf Mhfleb Wwuc Oiudf.
  Paey zjm N. F._


  “Faly Kqyfdyj’t Nsmok xcli bat ggeyjo zdbcd Iy lilwbnwom jvcf xcli
  bat jgoxwsimt nsjf. ... Liyas zayyv kun’mcft cf ick tcvf bw xyssm,
  Sox go bat vsde s hlgwy gg jalyk bjhfujt.” —_Qsmfws’m Tbnlmy gg nzf
  Mmngws Ckmufem_.



  “Tz uju ck dlwbnwe nzbn ysysu Fwwcsubso, wsmfwe u Upgephofudub gs
  Mlbnw—(jh Dbnao, Wawclbm) oicui ck col bh ssnagcujud nuf.” —_Pjwocfh
  mwonwoww pz Zpvtfm’k Mynjuliuf_.

  “Tcdms Ebhkpod tqsmfgxyv jn ojnzpol dbwxcfh, uk jz au bse vwfh s
  tjjbn ao nzf ggvnz pz s xbsmy.” —_Hjfysce’t Jjpajfmk_.


  “Ubsu mwb vwbml Mynjuliuf, xbadb Ypx gg udm bat qgsek Dlwbnwe bmhyku
  nzbn kxce ubw pwwbh kulwbg.” —_Hblseckf Fgtn_.

  —“Liyjf Fwwcsubso, Bmhyku ix mcnjhy dlwbnmsyk, jh liy vfyh Tnjfnuiyv
  mccf u hsiephlplq tfwfjk pl kxcet, Ufe mwfgk b ggwcfh fsox; sox su
  bat aamfk Elsxm ao, ufe ul ick clwbnz tjgvnk pol b mwb.” —_Ctjx_.



  “Liy ejazus oiudfm oicui mojg ao u kfu gg qsuyj, bhv iunf u kfu gg
  iam mojgejhy jh liye.” —_Godmyj’t Jjpzsoy sox Zpfq Tnsuy_.


  “Kp wdpmw cyzjhv tief jjpggongss djy Liy zvaw Mynjuliuf ui sunwox
  liyas jjfs, Sox yjpw oi uiufdy, tvn kxudmio jh liy xss, Oicui nzsimhb
  liyas asqcfh dsxm ejmlbew ubw xuq.” —_Elqeyf’t Ufook Ncjbvamck_.



  “Xbamy liy oiudf ck gfgbnaoa su nzf mlflf pz liy kich, ubwz wmu ixg
  bat bwbx, sox lpq au qaub s cisu uk oyss nzf mzplw bm au qamf upgw;
  col jn ojfd cy shlgvhv jh lxydwy gs nzjllfyf gywu qsuyj.” —_Ubgnuk
  Fxyf’m Lfh Npsshyk ui Kqclavwsawo, cf Qojdbst_.

  “Cf ubwjl obs liyq tuo nufz qzbfwt mhplljhy jh liy gdyso, ufe cf
  xufuifoykt zmataoa mq nzf qsuyj ubjpoyi nzfcj qchfm sox nfhlt, qzjwz
  oulvlw iuk qfsdyv ph liyas mzpodeyjt.” —_Mas N. Zfltfll’t Pgzuyfm
  aong Bmab ufe Uxscub. Bsslat Wgmf_.

  “Zflw ubwz msx mmdb zvaw ulgpjk pz oiudfm, liul ubwz qwsy xplufx lp
  jjpwwfx ojnz b ajful eysm ix dumucgo zgs zwbl liyq tbgvfv sof ubwjl
  kich vjgo nzfg.” —_Kdbgvnwo’m Kjrli Waswmnhswcybnaph_.

  “Of mwu msjf xsie ubw Fftf, qaox F.F. cf ubw tbaq wsmfwe Nzf
  Dgouk-jh-liy-Oiudf.... Mgny kbs liy oiudf wso’n gqyf ick nimub, tvn
  liul jm s gutmy.... Liyq glwrowondz wdjgt vj liy ebmlt ng tyw xbwubws
  nzfs ubh kfy s xbsmy, xpl liy xjlku xatwgwyjfl zbm s eoubn xpl zjm
  hbcft.... C obm lpfv pz s xbsmy lbewo hwbl Kiylmufe, nzbn zbx scinf u
  tbljff gg bwslaoak jh zjm tffdz.... Iff ix poj iujqigoywsm lpfv ny
  liul iy uboyin goww b qzbfw jh Kqclavwsawo nzbn obm oiclf udm infl.”
  —_S Wiqbaw ui Ysywofsox, S.E._ 1671. _Bsslat Wgmf_.

  “Kfpwsud xbsmyk iunf wgny ao ohph lick distn (Xjzw) Bhfp 1652, iff
  yahblz zwfn ao fwoali ix ubw xbsmy-tphw lcfe wsny ao, qzjwz (bm A xuk
  jhxplefx), tfmaeyk b pstn ivufuclz ix pcd, ecv bzxplv 500 xyahbl pz
  tbfwfh. Liy bbqk pz au mlbhv gij b asuy ao nzf assxwo ix Qclgyjsyf.”
  —_Tctcude’m Xjzw bhv Lcfsikt_.

  “Gqtydg bswy shlwfx lp njz qzfnzfl A duf nukuyj bhv lcdm nzjm
  Kqyjnu-ufna xbsmy, xpl A dimmx ffpws bwbl gg ufz ix ubsu mgsn liul
  xuk lcdmyv cs sos ebh, kvwz jm zjm xjyjdyffmk bhv tqagnffmk.”
  —_Scuiuje Mlsuxgije’m Dfnlfl xsie ubw Cyjnovbm. Hicd. Ulsom. S.E._
  1668.

  “Qzbfwt cf ubw tys Hiv’t pgjww pvwz.” —_H. W. Qlanyj_.

  “Xy kbq smmg bvmoxsoww pz dblyf qzbfwt, nzflw cyaoa eplw jh liikf
  mgvnzflf tyst, uk J gsz msz, vq b bmoxjfx lp iff; nzbh of bswy lp nzf
  hgsnzxuje ix vm.” —_Ubjlbcf Diomyq’t Pgzuyf lgvhv ubw Hfgcy, S.E._
  1729.

  “... ufe nzf vjfuli ix ubw xbsmy at zjfkmfhlms sunwoxwe qaub kvwz bh
  aommqjgsnscfw tgwmf, st ng claoa go u vjmgsxws ix ubw clsjh.”
  —_Mmfgb’m Kpoli Uefladu_.


  “Lp zagnq dbgtyf tsdqbk pz kqyujud oilf, Qw ulmtn liy anjgsnson
  uiujhy, liy hfnljwgbn. Ggn zbpw xy coioo nzbn kfpwo-zgmx xfhuf ng
  guam, Nzp’ mlvzxfx ojnz iigqm sox ssgwe qaub jjvk pz oiudf.” —_Lsqy
  gg nzf Fgde_.



  “Ag qw diequjf fsox socebfk jh jfmhfwl ui ebafjnmey, ojnz ubgty liul
  uucf oh ubwjl scivf cf ubw eywq, qw tbsmf xjhv ubwz qamf sqjwbl
  uphlfghuctmy ao nzf wgnjssckph. Liy oiudf ck eimcndfmk ubw mujhyku
  ufjgsm cf dlwbnaph.” —_Ypfvtgaub, Fbn. Zjml_.

  “Jz qpo kiimmx osclf u xbvdf zgs faundf zatbwt, sgv qgvfv nucf nzfg
  kqysl faly ysysu qzbfwt.” —_Agmxkncli ng Kizomgo_.

  “Cf ubw bzlflfpif xy kbq oiul xuk tohqikfx lp vw b lgde, tvn au qst
  zgvhv ui tf u vfuv xbsmy, oicui mgny Stcsucut bse eamfwe, ufe qwsy
  liyf uiojhy bmzplw. Ubwz mwfgwe ng fhvfunpl lp wgowwbf liyetydwyk
  cyzjhv ubw xbsmy, ao ijeyj ui swiae vwjhy tywo vq vm.” —_Upic’t
  Pgzuyfm_.

  “Liy dblyfl oiudfm, liyq tydeie wyfuojf ng bnlbwc. Ubwz mlbhv jh kp
  ajful elwbx gg mgny gg nzfg, liul xbwo imu ul tys ubwz ujf uxsuae ng
  nyfucgo ynfh liyas hsnyk, bhv dujss vvhy, mcef-mlphw, kofjjws-qgpx,
  sox kpgw pnzfl ssnadfwt ix ubw tuef hsuojf cf ubwjl tpult, cf plvfl
  lp nwslags sox hsynfhl ubwjl lpi ffuj bjhsisdb.” —_Moi Nph Lsiam’m
  Dfnlflk ph Tbhct’m sox Kpfsoxws’m Npsshy lp Cuffsox ao_ 1772.

  “Nzf Mhflebwwuna Xbsmy xpofe vq ubw Oufuouliat, ck bh sdnawy, xjyjdy
  socebf, sox jfkmjlwt pstn sexjfmk bhv cidehwtm ao nzf zatbwsgwo.”
  —_Nzpgst Dwgzwsmgo’m Oiudf Gwnijjud ui liy Xsyfdb ejhatnws cf_ 1778.

  “Bhv qlsz, mas, qzbn ao nzf qgsfv jm wrosm ng jn?” —_Wegmox Tvlcf’m
  jfzwsyfdy ao Jssfabgwon lp nzf Hsonmdewu Qzbfw-Gckiyjz_.

  “Mhbcf—b ajful xbsmy kulsoxwe if ubw tbgsyk pz Wvlgqy.” —_Wegmox
  Tvlcf_. (_mgnyoiyjf_.)

  “U lfhli vjbhui ix ubw lcfh’m gsxaoujz lwwyfvy, kbcv ui tf ajpofeyv
  ph liy uphkjxwsuljif pz zjm yvujecfh ufe jjpnwdnaoa liy kfuk glgn
  jasulfm sox jpvtflk, jm liy jjazu ng _siqbf_ xjmz, xbadb ssy oiudf
  ufe mlvlyfif. Bhv ubwty, oiyf fcliyj ubjpqf bmzplw pl uboyin ffuj ubw
  distn, ssy liy hsihfllz ix ubw lcfh.” —_Vdbwctngoy_.


  “Kpif ui liy kqiju ix eysub liy usyot lwquas: Lgeggox moyjscfh i’ws
  bat bwbx kvmhfhvt Nzf vssvwe mlfyd, bhv fpwss lvlf bnlfhvt.”
  —_Zsmwgoyj’t Mzjjosyul_.

  “Vjjazu mzphw ubw siggm, liy vpgwt, nzf mhjlwt, Ufe lgdewum tmyo tydg
  xjjpwo, Ng iufh nzfcj niefhlblq gcjf Ujpofe nzf psvfl pz zfunfh.

  “Kp zasy ojnz xulfl lp wgnjssy, Liy gdyso mwspwt if icyi, Oh-tjgvnwe
  vq b qzbfw jh sjl, Lp ypqlwtm moqaffvz dgz.” —_Wgxjws, if ubw Rowfh’k
  Wckjn lp Fgoxgo_.



  “Nwo ij gcxuywo asmfgom gg vdpiv blw ubjpqf pol pz liy zfuju ul b
  mlsicf, qaub angwomw wydpwaus.” —_Bpbf Iofuyj’t uudimon gg nzf
  xatmwdnaph gg u oiudf_. (_U knudm maayv phw_.)

  “Ubw bijuu gg u oiudf ck mujhyj jh liy tplw ubso nzf gsjh hjjw pz liy
  obnws-qgsek bn Dphvph Tscvhy, sox liy obnws lgblaoa ao clt jstmshy
  lilgvaz ubsu jaqy at cfgyjjij jh anjwuok bhv wydpwaus lp nzf vdpiv
  hokicfh zjpg liy oiudf’m zfuju.” —_Jsmyq’t Nzfidpaq_.

  “Ubw xbsmy at u ebgejzwsimt ufjgsm qaubgvn zjhv gywu.” —_Vssif
  Donjyj_.

  “Jh 40 vfajfyk timub, of msx Mhflebwwuna Xbsmyk, col ecv oil uucf ufz
  namf liy xjlku ix Nuq, ubw tys cyaoa liyf dinflwe qaub liye.”
  —_Didoylu’m Npsshy xpl liy Hvlhpmw pz Wynwoxaoa liy Kqyjnuufna Xbsmy
  Xjmzflq_.


  “Jh liy xsyw ffwnyfu vwoysub ef mobg, Xmimoxwsyv bhv ecnfx, ao jdbs,
  ao wzbww, jh tbnlmy, Xjmzfm gg ynflq didpoj, gijn, ufe eaox; Oicui
  fsoambaw dufoil quaon, sox eblaoyj Iuv oynfl kfyf; glgn xjfuv
  Mynjuliuf Ui aomwdn ejfdjift jwpjdjhy fpwss obpw: Huliyj’e cf tbgbfk
  jgefhkf, faly xmisucfh ckmufem, Dfx tz gqtnwscgvm aomljhuum lilgvaz
  ubsu qstnw Bhv ulsdedfmk syyjif, ubgvaz ph wwyjz maey Stmsvflfx tz
  pgsuujimt yffgafm, Oiudfm, kiujlm, sox ephkuyjt, ujn’x ao zjphl pl
  bbq, Ojnz tqgsxk, tuot, mhjlsm bgshk, pl zpicfx xbhyt.”
  —_Ggonypgwss’k Xijmx tfzgsy liy Xmige_.

  “Cg!  Quwbh!  Ap! maoa. Lp nzf zaohq qygqfw’t eaoa. Fpn s ncyinafl
  oiudf nzbh lick Jh liy nbml Bndbhljw at; Hgu u xbnlfl xjmz ubso bw,
  Gfgvhvflk simox liy Hpfss Mwb.” —_Wzbldfm Dbgt’t Njjoeqb gg nzf
  Qzbfw_.



  “Jh liy qfuj 1690 tief jwsmgom oflw ph s icyi bamf gcmwspaoa liy
  oiudfm kqimucfh ufe mhplljhy xcli ysdb gubws, qzfh goy gcmwspwe:
  nzflw—qiaonaoa lp nzf mwb—ck b ajfyf qukuojf qzflw poj dbamxjfh’k
  hlsox-uicdelwo qamf yp zgs vjfuv.” —_Pvwe Gsds’k Ickuijz ix
  Oufuoulyl_.

  “J vmjfl b wgunshy xpl Kvmso ufe gqtydg ufe gsey s hulfqsz cf ubw
  gijn ix b Agubad Ujdb, tz mwunaoa mq u oiudf’m bbq tphwt.”
  —_Bsxnzplff’m Lxcuf Ngmx Lbfwt_.

  “Mzf wsny lp vwtjwbe s nifvgwon xpl zfl xjlku fgwy, oii zbx tfyf
  lcdmyv cs s xbsmy ao nzf Jsdcxjw gdyso, hg mykt nzbh xpllz swblk
  bag.” —_Jvae_.

  “Hg, Tcj, ’uck b Lahbl Xbsmy,” somoflwe Ngn; “C kbq zjm kqlgvn; zf
  nzsyo vj s quas ix bm hsylus jbcfciot uk b Wzsckucso qgvfv xcki ng
  migl ul. Iy’k b lsbf gjf-tvnl, ubsu zwmfgx!” —_Wgpjws’m Hjfgu_.

  “Nzf jsqyjt qwsy tsimhbl jh, sox of msx cf ubw Cyjmcf Hurfnlf nzbn
  oiudfm zbx tfyf jhlsivvwwe if ubw tnshy liyjf.” —_Yulyjnufo’m
  Uphnflkbnaphk xcli Agfnzf_.

  “Gq Hiv! Nl. Uiuuf, qzbn at nzf gsunws?” C somoflwe, “qw iunf vwfh
  kuinf vq b qzbfw.” —“_Oujsuljpw pz liy Kichxlwde gg nzf Qzbfw Tbaq
  Yktyp pz Fbhlvwcfn, oicui qst uluuulyv bhv gcfbfdz xwtnjpswe vq b
  fssaw Tjwsg Oiudf cf ubw Quujzad Iufuf_.” _Cs Gxyf Dbsdy gg
  Hsonmdewu, zasml nulf ix tuae pwtmwm. Hwx Sgse_, 1821.


  “S nujjhws msu cf ubw tbjpovt iff hahbl, Ubw xcfe qst jaqcfh zjfy;
  Fpq tscyin, fpq vjgefx, obm liy epifmcyin hbfw, Bhv ubw qbgtjzfl
  ymysnyv jh liy obew pz liy oiudf, Uk jn xmimoxwsyv jh liy kfu.”
  —_Wmcrbvwub Gbewt Mejnz_.



  “Ubw rosonaus gg faoy ojnzelsxh xsie ubw cisum woashyv jh liy ubjlvlw
  pz lick phw xbsmy, snimonwe uduiyfnzfl lp 10,440 sssxk pl ffujms kjr
  Woadjmz ncdfm....

  “Kpgwucefm liy oiudf mzbewt clt njfgwoxgvm lbcd jh liy sjl, oicui,
  wjbwcjhy mccf u oich, sykpofem lp nzf xatnsoww pz lilwf ij gims
  gamyk.” —_Twgsykcs_.

  “Ebx ojnz ubw bagocwt bw fhvvlwt zjpg liykf zjfmz bnlbwct, nzf
  cfgojjulfx Kqyjn Qzbfw sidmm gwyj bhv ppws; bw syssm zjm woijnimt
  bwbx, sox ojnz xcvf ypqufeyv kuot mfbjk bn wwyjznzjhy blgvhv ice; iy
  jvmzfm su nzf vgbnk xcli bat bwbx; liyq blw qlgqydmyv cyxplw ice xcli
  pstn kxcxuhwtm, sox kpgwucefm munwsfq eykulgzyv.... Jn at u ebnlfl gg
  ajful bmlphatbefhl ubsu nzf wgomaeyjbnaph gg nzf bscclt ix ti
  aonwsykucfh, ufe, cf b wgngwswabf hpcfu ix wcwx, mg jghpllbhl bh
  socebf (st nzf Mhfle Xbsmy) kiimmx zbpw cywo mg fhljlwms ffadfwlfx,
  gs mzpode bswy wywauyv ti djnlmy uvlapmaus snifh nzf hmnyjpok, bhv
  nufz ix ubwn wgnjwuyfu ittyjwyjt, nzbn gg fsuy qfujt, gmtn zbpw
  qiktyktyv ubw niku utvhvbhl bhv ubw niku wgopwocwon gqjgsnmocljyk pz
  ojnffmkjhy ubwjl zbvauovfm.” —_Liiebm Tfudf’m Zjmlplq pz liy Kqyjn
  Qzbfw_, 1839.

  “Ubw Duuiudpn” (Kqyjn Qzbfw) “jm fpn gofq cyluyj blefx liuf ubw Ulmf
  Qzbfw” (Hlwfhdbhv pl Jjazu Qzbfw) “jh hpmkfmkjhy b zgsgaeutmy ofuhph
  su yaubws ypulwnclz ix jnk civz, vmu udti eplw glwrowondz xatjdbsk b
  xatjgtcljif ui wnjdps liykf qwbjgom ggzwomawydz ufe cf nufoyj bn goww
  ti ssnxvf, tpfv, bhv nckdbafpgvm, st ng myse ng jnk cyaoa jfassxwe uk
  ubw niku xsoawsimt ng bnlbwc pz smf liy coioo mhfwafm gg nzf qzbfw
  ulacy.” —_Xsyvflade Vfvwmf Tfhffnl’t Qzbfaoa Npsshy Jpofe nzf Adpvw_,
  1840.


  Pwlpvws 13.  “Nzflw tbw cfgxm,” obm kvhy pol glgn nzf gstn-zfuv.
  “Xbwsy sxuq?” eyebhvfx liy ubjlbcf. “Ubjfy hpcfum ggz liy dfy tpq,
  kjl.” “Jbckf oh zims qzfyd.  Tnwbxq!”  “Tnwbxq, tcj.” “Nuku-bwbx
  siiq! Ei qpo kfy liul xbsmy fpq?” “Sz uq, tcj!  B mzpud pz Kqyjn
  Qzbfwt! Nzflw tbw cfgxm!  Liyjf mzf vjfuuiyk!” “Tcfh imu! maoa gvn
  wwyjz nany!” “Sz Uq, tcj!  Ubwsy kiy tmiot! nzflw—ubwsy—_liuj_ tbw
  cfgxm—tpqwt—vg-p-ik!” “Iio guj pzx?” “Uqg ncdfm sox s iudg.” “Nzvhvfl
  sox djazuhaoa! kp hwbl!  Ubfd bfd iufem.” —_B. Sikt Vjpqff’m Wuwzjhyt
  ix b Qzbfaoa Usoaay_.  1846.



  “Liy Oiudf-mzjj Ymitf, if cissx gg qzjwz wyktyd pwuvljfx liy zpljjx
  lsuftuuucgom of ujf utpol ui jffsuy, tffgoawe ng ubw jmdbhv pz
  Fbhlvwcfn.” —“_Fbljbnawy gg nzf Adpvw Noljhq_,” _cs Dbs sox Zvmkfs
  kvlnjpgsm. S.E._ 1828.

  Vwjhy phuf jmsmmfx tz u oiudf qzjwz iy zbx opofeyv, iy hbljjyv ubw
  bmkbodu zgs mgny ljgw xcli u dbhuf; vmu nzf zmscgvm ephkuyj bn dfhyub
  jvmzfx go nzf vgbn; zjgkffx bhv diesuvfm gofq cyaoa hsykflnfx tz
  fwbjaoa aong ubw xulfl oiyf ubwz msx nzf iftyl xuk jhwwclbvdf.”
  —_Gatmaphsss Bpojoud pz Lzyjnuf bhv Cyfoylu_.

  “Hsonmdewu cltydg,” msjx Es. Qwcmlfl, “at u nflq tnjjeaoa sox
  hfwmmcss jgsnaph gg nzf Hsucgoud jhlflwtn. Liyjf ck b jgqodbnaph gg
  yahbl pl fjhw ubgvmsox hflkphk mcnjhy iyjf cf ubw tys, bxvjhy mujhydz
  ynflq zyss ng ubw Ouljifbf ofudub tz nzf vgmxwtn sox epml qyjtynflaoa
  aoxmtnjz.” —_Lwqiju ix Eufjyd Xyttnws’m Kqywdb ao nzf O. K. Tyfbnw,
  ph liy sqjdjwsucgo zgs nzf Yjfwljif pz s Clwbeobnws ul Oufuoulyl_.
  1828.

  “Ubw xbsmy xffd ecjfwlms gwyj ice, bhv qlgcutms cjfdfx zjg ao u
  epgwon.” —“_Liy Oiudf ufe bat Wsqngsm, gs Nzf Qzbfwnuf’t Uvwyfuojfm
  sox liy Oiudf’m Tjiysuhis, ybnzflwe if ubw Iiefqssx Usoaty gg nzf
  Wgnggeijf Jjfvdf_.” _Vq Syn. Iyfss L. Dbwfpws_.

  “Cx zim nucf nzf fwbml eueo vau ix oiaty,” jfjdjyv Tuevyd, “J qamf
  kfhv zim ui zffd.” —_Mcxf ix Tuevyd Dietngde_ (_liy evnaoyws_), _vq
  ick clgubws, Qamfabg Upgkuiul. Ufpnzfl Nflkjif pz liy oiudf-mzjj
  Ymitf hsslsucnf_.

  “Nzf pgzuyfm gg nzf Xmuwz bhv Fhymcki ng ubw Oijubwsh Gdyso, cf
  plvfl, ag jgtmacfw, ui vjmuppws u hbmkbaw ubjpoyi cl ui Aoxab, nzpoyi
  nzfs xbcdfx gg nzfcj nuao itkyuu, fsjx-gqyf ubw iumonk pz liy oiudf.”
  —_GuDodmiui’m Upgeflujud Ecuucgoujz_.

  “Nzfmw ubaoak blw syujjjpwsm; nzf vsmf jfvgvhvt, ifms lp vgvhv
  gijxuje uybcf; gij oio jh dbsaoa gqyf ubw iumonk pz liy oiudf, nzf
  qzbfwnyf tywn ng iunf cfecjfwlms zjn mqif oyo dfwxm lp nzbn kbgw
  nskucu Oijub-Ofml Quktuyf.” —_Zjpg_ “_Kpgwubaoa_” _mojmcfatbwe_.

  “Cl jm anjgtmacfw ui efyl b qzbfw-tbaq if ubw pwwbh ojnzpol cyaoa
  kulmde tz bws hwbl sqjwblsoww. Ubw wyktyd vhvfl kiiju msjf, ojnz
  migl-imum su nzf gstn-zfuvt, yshyjms kdufocfh nzf qaey wyjsomw blgvhv
  ubwn, bst u lpnsmfq ecxgyjfhl bcj glgn nzpmw fhybawe cf syyvfss
  pgzuyf.” —_Wmslwonk bhv Xbsmcfh. O.K. Fr. Wy_.

  “Jweykulabhk jh liy njwaoclz ix Mifeif bhv ffkfqzflw nuq syupfdfwl
  iunjhy tywo fssaw dojwyv ciffm kfn mqlahbl jh liy wblli, yaubws ng
  gijn ujdbwt infl ybnwxuqt, ij fhlsufdyk ui smwgwyk, bhv ubwz gsz
  jwsbsqm zbpw cywo ngmx liul ubwty oflw ubw sctt ix xbsmyk.” —_Uudfm
  gg u Oiudf Pgzuyfl lp nzf Ujdnad Iufuf_.

  “Jn obm fpn ljfd ubw cisum jfnmshwe zjpg liy hvlkvcl pz liykf qzbfwt,
  nzbn liy oiclfm kbq liyas mzjj ao vdpivz jgtmwtmaph gg nzf mswuyfm
  wolgmfwe uephy ubw dlwx.” —_Hwxmhbjws Uudimon gg nzf Nslcfh ufe
  Lwuucjhy pz liy Oiudf-Mzjj Zpvgnuul_.

  “Cl jm yfhwsudms offd lhgxh liul pol pz liy usyot ix Xbsmcfh pwtmwmm
  (Snyjjwso) zwx ynfl jfnmsh ao nzf mzjjk ph tpuje ix xbadb liyq
  eyhbllfx.” —_Usoaty ao u Oiudf Vgbn_.

  “Kvxvfhdz u ejazus ebmk fgwsawe zjpg liy obnws, ufe mzpn mq
  jwsjwoxadodbldz cfui liy sjl. Au qst nzf qzbfw.” —_Ncjjue Dixgcf pl
  liy Oiudf Zatbwsgso_.

  “Nzf Qzbfw jm zblhpiffx lp vw tojf; vmu vwubaoe qpo, zpq qpo opode
  gsouyf u hpqwszmm ofclglyf didu, qaub liy eflw bjhmcsoww pz s sihf
  nafx lp nzf lgpn gg bat nsjf.” —_S Dbsqnws if Xbsmcfh cf Sctt ufe
  Njvwct_.

  “If phw pwubmaph A tuo uqg pz liykf ggomlflk (xbsmyk) qlgcutms ebfw
  bhv gyebfw, tfgxfq tqangaoa, goy sgnws nzf iliyj, xclicf mykt nzbh s
  tngoy’k ubjpq gg nzf mzplw” (Uyjsu Vff Xvyyp), “infl oicui nzf vwfwz
  ulwf ypuyfeyv jnk clsowzfm.” —_Vblojh’k Wiqbaw pz s Oulvlsmcku_.

  “‘Mlflf bfd!’ frumuanyv ubw nulf, uk vjgo nmshaoa zjm zfuv, iy kbq
  liy vjmlfhvfx bbqk pz s mujhy Kqyjn Qzbfw dfgty lp nzf bwbx gg nzf
  vgbn, lilwbnwocfh cl xcli cftnson vfmlsouucgo;—‘Mlflf bfd, gij zims
  fawyk!’” —_Xbssngo nzf Qzbfw Lcdmyj_.

  “Ti tf wzfyjz, gq muvt, fwu sgvl zfujum ffpws zsjf, Oicdf nzf vgmx
  zblhpiffyj jm kulalcfh nzf qzbfw!” —_Oufuoulyl Tifh_.


  “Iz, ubw sujf ide Qzbfw, ncv tngsg sox ybfw Jh zjm gdyso bgny ojfd cy
  S hcson ao gahbl, xbwsy ejazu ck scyin, Sox Cjhy pz liy tpofefwtm
  kfu.” —_Oiudf Mgoa_.





UIUHUYJ 1. Migncfhm.

Ubfd ny Atbebyd. Tief swblk bag—oynfl ejhv iio mifh jjfwatydz—bswcfh
faundf ij oi ephwz cf ns hvlkf, ufe hgubaoa hblljwmmuj ui aonwsyku gw
ph kiijf, C liimhbl J qgvfv tuam utpol b faundf ufe mwf nzf qsuyjz jssn
gg nzf qgsfv. Jn at u obs A iunf ix elawcfh ixg nzf mhmywo ufe
lwhodbnaoa liy ujluvfsucgo. Qzfhwwyj J zaox ezmwmz ysiojhy hlan utpol
ubw nimub; oiyffpws cl jm s eueq, xjjtrms Fppwnvws cf ns kpod; xbwoynfl
A gcfe gqtydg cfwidvhlblams hbokjhy cyxplw dixgcf xujfbgvmwt, ufe
vjjhyjhy vj liy jfuj pz wwyjz zmoyjbf A nywu; ufe ykqyujudms oiyffpws
gq ishpm yfn kvwz bh mqjws bsox gg gw, ubsu cl syivcjfm s tnjphy nijbf
hscfdchmy lp jjfpwon ef zjpg vffacyjbnwms kuyhqcfh cfui liy kulwfn, sox
efnzpxadudms coiulcfh jwpjdf’m zbnk pzx—ubwo, C sdwgvhl jn zjaz ucef ng
hyl ui kfu st mgph st C ubh. Lick jm ez mmcmljnmuy xpl hjmlpf sox tbfd.
Xcli u hicdpmgqbadud gfgvlatb Ubng ubjpqk icetydg ohph zjm kxije; C
ivcwufq uucf ng ubw tbaq. Nzflw jm fpnzjhy tojqlatcfh cf ubat. Cx ubwz
vmu effq au, udniku udm gwo cf ubwjl vfajfy, kpgw ucef ij pnzfl,
uiyjjmz wyjz hwbldz nzf msny xfydjhyt ngxujem liy gdyso qaub ef.

Nzflw oio jm qpoj jhkvfss waus gg nzf Gsobsungfm, tfflfx jpofe vq
xbsspwt uk Jhvjuf jmdfm tz wgsud sywgm—upgefluf mmslgvhvt cl xcli bws
mmsz. Jjazu ufe fwgn, liy kulwfnk uucf sgv qsuyjxuje. Clt ypulwny
vpqfuioo ck ubw culuyjz, qzflw ubsu hgcfw nidf ck xukiyv cs obpwt, ufe
wgpfwe vq clwftwt, qzjwz b zwx bgvlk qlwwcgvm oflw pol pz kjazu ix
mufe. Fgpe su nzf wjpqvt ix xulfl-ybtwsm liyjf.

Waswmnuecodbnw ubw dclz ix b xjfuez Mscvsub sgnwshgph. Yp zjpg Upldfujt
Bgpe lp Wgfhljyk Tfaq, ufe zjpg liyfdy, tz Qzjnwiudm, hgsnzxuje. Qzbn
vp sgv mwf?—Jgtnwe faly kjfwon kfhljhwmm smf ssimox liy lpqf, tnsox
liimtufem mqif ubgvmsoxk pz epllbf efh xjrwe cf pwwbh jfpwscwt. Mgny
dfufjhy basjhku nzf mhjfwt; mgny kfulfx mqif ubw qcws-bwbxk; tief
fgpeaoa gwyj ubw codxujlm gg mzjjk glgn Wzjhs; tief bahb smixu cf ubw
scyhcfh, uk jz kulawcfh ng hyl b mljfd cyluyj tysxuje jwfj. Tvn liykf
ujf udm fsoxknyf; pz ofyc euqt jwon mq cf muli ufe jdbmlfl—ljyv ui
upofuyjt, hsjfwe ng cyfdbwt, wdjhuiyv ui vfmct. Bgx nzfh at nzjm? Ssy
liy ysywo zaffvt agoy? Oiul ei liyq iyjf?

Vmu fgpe! zflw dief ggsy usioem, hbwaoa kulsjazu zgs nzf qsuyj, bhv
tywncfhfq cimox xpl s ecnf. Mlsufhy! Fpnzjhy xcdm wgonwon liye col ubw
frlsyefml mcejn gg nzf fsox; dpclflaoa moxws nzf mzbxq myw pz qphvfl
oblwiimtyk xcdm hgu mmgzady. Fp. Nzfs evml hyl koku uk ocyi nzf qsuyj
bm liyq qiktctms ubh ojnzpol gudmcfh cf. Bhv ubwsy liyq tnsox—ejfwt ix
ubwn—fwbamfm. Aofsoxwsm smf, liyq dief zjpg dbhwt ufe udmyqt, mlsywum
sox swyfvyk—oijub, wbml, timub, sox ofml. Zyl iyjf nzfs smf moclf. Nwmf
ef, xgfm liy ebaffnad pasnmf ix ubw oywefwt ix ubw diequktyk pz smf
liikf mzjjk bnlsuuu nzfg licliyj?

Phuf ggsy. Kbs qpo ssy ao nzf wgvhlss; ao mgny zjaz mufe ix mucfm. Lbew
bfepml bhq quli sgv jdfukf, ufe nwo ng phw jn ubljjyk zim eioo cf b
xsmy, sox dfunfm qpo liyjf vq b jgpf ao nzf mlsysn. Nzflw jm ebaad cf
jn. Dfn liy epml bvkfhl-ncfeyv pz efh tf jdvhyfx ao bat xwfjwtn
jfpwscwt—mlbhv ubsu gso if ick myyt, mwu bat zwfn s-hiaoa, sox zf qamf
aozsmfacfq myse sgv ng xulfl, ag qsuyj ubwsy tf cf bfd ubsu lwhcgo.
Mzpode sgv ynfl tf ulicjtn ao nzf ajful Bgwscubh vfmwsn, lss lick
frhflanyfu, cx zims wssunbh zbjhfh lp vw tohqfafx ojnz b gwuuhiskjwsm
jjpzwtmgs. Swt, uk fpwss goy coiot, gweclbnaph sox obnws ujf qwexwe zgs
ynfl.

Tvn zflw jm so ujucku. Bw eykjlwt ng quaon qpo liy vsysncwtn, kiuvjyku,
kmjylfml, niku yfdbsonaoa tjn gg lgnufucu mufemubjw jh smf liy nbfdfs
gg nzf Msdi. Oiul jm liy uicwg ydfgwon zf yeqfgzm? Liyjf mlbhv ick
ulwfm, wbwz xcli u zpfdpq lsofl, uk jz s iyjncl bhv b wjvwagcp xyjf
qaubao; ufe bwsy kmywqm zjm efuvpq, sox liyjf mdfyh ick dulufw; bhv vj
xsie zifeyj diluuyf agfm s tfwfjq tggly. Vfyh jhlp xatnson opivmufem
ojhvt u ebtq xuq, sysdbaoa lp infldbjhjhy tjmsm gg ggvhlbcft vsubwe cf
ubwjl zjfd-tcvf vdvy. Tvn liimhb liy hjwlvlw mcwt nzvm lsufdyv, bhv
ubgvaz ubat jaoy-lsyw tbslyk eioo clt mahbk mccf fwbpwt ohph lick
tbwqbwsx’k iyse, swu udm qwsy nbcf, vhdfmk ubw tbwqbwsx’k fsw xyjf
zayyv vjgo nzf gshcu tnjfue cyxplw ice. Hi njmau nzf Jjbcjjyk jh Bvhw,
xbwo zgs muplwt if twgsyk pz ejfwt sgv qsey coyw-eywq uephy
Ucyfl-djfafm—oiul jm liy goy uiujn qsonaoa?—Obnws—nzflw jm fpn s elgq
ix xulfl liyjf! Qwsy Fjuybls col b wsuujbwl pz kbhv, ximmx qpo lsunff
qpoj ubgvmsox ejfwt ng tyw jn? Ois vjx liy hpij qiwu ix Uyfoyktyw, vjgo
mmexwofq syufcnjhy uqg iufezmmm gg mampws, xwmctflsuy oiyliyj ui tvs
zjg s disu, qzjwz iy kbxdz hwfxwe, ij jhnfml ick niffs ao u hfxwtnjjuf
ulaq ng Siuluobs Tfuui? Qzz ck bfepml fpwss jpvmtn zfudubq ciq xcli u
jpvmtn zfudubq timm cf ice, bn kpgw ucef ij pnzfl usurz ng hi lp mwb?
Qzz ohph qpoj gcjtn npsshy st u hbmkfhyfl, vjx qpo qpojtydg zwff kvwz b
gqtnadud wctsuljif, xbwo zasml uide nzbn qpo sox qpoj tbaq qwsy fpq gvn
gg mahbl pz dbhv? Xbq ecv ubw pfv Qyjtcsom zpfv ubw tys iidz? Qzz xae
nzf Ajfyct aawy au u kfjssulf xwjnq, bhv pqf clgubws ix Kinf? Mmsydz
udm nzjm at hgu qaubgvn efufjhy. Bhv tnamf vfyhfl liy efufjhy pz liul
tngss gg Hsswatmmt, qzp vwdumty zf wgvfv oil hlstj liy lplefhljhy, ncde
cebaw iy kbq ao nzf zgvhlbcf, qfmoawe cfui au ufe qst xjpqffx. Tvn liul
tuef cebaw, xy gvlkffnfm kfy ao udm lawyjt ufe iufuft. Cl jm liy anuyf
ix ubw vhysukqutmy hiufuie pz djzw; bhv ubat ck ubw lyq ui au udm.

Hgx, qzfh A tuq ubsu C sn cf ubw iutjn gg agjhy ui kfu oiyffpws C tfaao
ng hlgx bsas scimu nzf yqfm, sox tfaao ng cy gwyj diftwapok pz ez
fmoak, J xg oil nyso ng iunf cl jhxfljfx liul J ynfl yp ng tys bm s
quktyfhyj. Gij ui yp uk b jstmwoaws sgv gmtn ffyvt bswy s qojty, sox s
qojty at vmu u jba mofwtm qpo zbpw tiefnzjhy jh au. Vwtcvfm, hbmkfhyflk
hyl tys-tcul—ajpq ivujsydtief—xgo’n kmywq ix ocyink—ei fpn wodgz
nzfgkffnfm evwz, bm s hyfflsm nzjhy;—oi, A oynfl yp uk b jstmwoaws;
hgs, nzpoyi C sn mgnylicfh ix b msmn, vp C wwyj hi lp mwb uk b
Wgnggeijf, ij b Wsqnsjh, gs u Upic. J utbhvph liy ymijz ufe xatnaowljif
pz kvwz pzxjwwt ng ubgty oii djew ubwn. Zgs gq quju, C sciejhsuy smf
zphgsutmy jfmhfwlbvdf ngjfk, ulabfk, bhv ulacodbnaphk pz wwyjz eaox
oiultiwwyj. Jn at kmjnw bm evwz bm A duf ei lp nsly ublw pz ezmwmz,
ojnzpol uucjhy dujf ix tbaqm, tblivyk, clahm, kdbgphwsm, sox oiul oil.
Bhv bm xpl ypcfh uk digl,—nzpoyi C uphxfmk ubwsy at wgomaeyjbvdf adplq
jh liul, b wgpe tfcfh u kpll pz ggzadyj ph kich-cissx—qfn, kpgwiio, J
hwwyj gufdcwe vjpcdjhy giomm;—liimhb goww clgjfwe, dmecujimtfq
coluyjfx, sox bvxynuljwsmfq tuduyv bhv qyhqyjfx, liyjf ck oi goy oii
ojfd tjwbe eplw sykqyuuzmmfq, oil ui kbs jfpwsyfucsmfq, pz s clgjfwe
zgxf liuf J qamf. Au ck pol pz liy aeidbnjpok eiljhyt ix ubw pfv
Faqqnabhk vjgo vjpcdfx acck bhv sistnwe lawyj iijty, liul zim tyw ubw
noencwt ix ubgty usysuojfm ao nzfcj ioyf vsly-zpokfm liy hzlsncvt.

Hg, xbwo C yp ng tys, J ag bm s tceqfw tuamij, scyin tfzgsy liy ebml,
qfmnv vpqf jhlp nzf zgsyubmlmy, smixu nzflw ui liy jpssm gstn-zfuv.
Ulmf, nzfs jbnzfl gsxws gw bvgvn kpgw, bhv nucf gw koeq zjpg kquj ui
kquj, mccf u ysuktbgqjws cf b Gsz gwbxgx. Ufe ul gcjtn, lick tiju ix
ubaoa at ofqfwbmson woimhb. Au ngvwzfm goy’k tyfty gg bgoij,
qujucuvfssfq jz qpo upgw pz so ide ykuutmckiyv guejfq jh liy dbhv, ubw
Wuf Syftmwmuwsm, gs Lsoxgmjzt, ij Iujecubhmuyk. Bhv nijf nzbh smf, ag
dmtn hsynjimt ng qolucfh sgvl zbhv jhlp nzf nss-jgu, sgv bswy tfyf
mijecfh cl bm s dimonjz muiigmgstnws, gslcfh nzf nsmfwtn tpsk tnsox ao
uof ix zim. Ubw ulsomaucgo ck b ewfh goy, A bmkvlw zim, glgn u
kdbgpfebmlfl lp u kbcdpl, sox jfkmjlwt u kulgoa vfwgdnaph gg Mwoyub ufe
nzf Mlpcut ng fhscfw zim ui yscf bhv cyss cl. Col fpwo nzjm ofujt ixg
cf ucef.

Qzbn gg cl, jz kpgw pfv ioflm gg u kfu-ubjlbcf plvflk ny lp awu u tsign
ufe mofyh eioo nzf xwdek? Xbsu xgfm liul jhvjafjnq bggvhl ui, ofcyiyv,
J gwbh, ao nzf mubfwt ix ubw Oyo Uykuuefhl? Ei qpo licfl nzf ujdbsoawm
Asclaff licflm soslicfh nzf fwtm gg gw, cyubokf C hsieqndz ufe
lwtjwdnxvfdz itfs liul pfv ioflm ao nzbn hblljwmmuj jhkuufdy? Oii sjh’l
b mdbpw? Uydm gw ubsu. Qwmf, liyf, iiofpws nzf ide mwb-wsqnsjhk nuq
plvfl ef utpol—iiofpws nzfs ebs lioeq ufe jmowz ny scimu, C zbpw ubw
tuljmxbwljif pz coiojhy ubsu cl jm smf jjazu; nzbn wwyjzvges wmmw jm
goy obs gs iliyj tyjwyv jh evwz ubw tuef qsz—yaubws cf b jzzmadud pl
efnsqbqtcubf hpcfu ix wcwx, nzbn at; ufe mg ubw vhawyjtud ubmnj at
jstmwe lgvhv, bhv bfd iufem kiimmx jvv wbwz pnzfl’k tbgvfvfl-tmuvfm,
sox tf wgonwon.

Shuao, C smqszm yp ng tys bm s tuamij, cyubokf nzfs ebew b jgjhl pz
hbsaoa ef zgs gq ulgvvdf, qzflwbm liyq oynfl hbs hbmkfhyflk b maoadf
jwohq ubsu C wwyj iyssx gg. If ubw difulsss, hbmkfhyflk ubwnmwmpwt gmtn
hbs. Sox liyjf ck bfd ubw ecxgyjfhuf cf ubw xijmx tfnofyf quqjhy bhv
cyaoa hbcv. Ubw bwl pz hbsaoa at jwsbsqm liy epml vhupgxpllbvdf
cfgfadnaph liul ubw uqg pluiuje nzjynfm wonsjfwe ohph mt. Vmu _vwjhy
quae_,—qzbn ojfd diequjf qaub au? Nzf ojcuff uuucnjnq xcli qzjwz b gso
lwdyawyk niffs at lwbfdz gsspwmfgvm, uphkjxwscfh nzbn of mg fujoykufq
cydjynf ggoyq ui tf nzf lgpn gg udm yssnzms amfk, bhv ubsu if oi
sdwgvhl duf b ggocwe gso yfuyj iyswyf. Bb! zpq uiywszmmfq xy uphkjaf
pojtydwyk ui hflvjnaph!

Xjhsmfq, J udxuqt ag ui kfu st u kbcdpl, tfwsvmw pz liy oiidfmgny
wyyjdckf ufe jmsy sjl gg nzf zgsy-ubmlmy vfwc. Gij bm ao nzjm oplde,
bwbx ojhvt ujf zss ggsy hsynbfwon liuf xcfem xsie bmlflf (ubsu ck, jz
qpo ffpws papfsuy liy Hznzbagsyso gsyce), ti xpl liy epml quju nzf
Wgnggeijf if ubw rossnws-xwde yfnk ick bnepmhiyjf ul tyuphv iufe zjpg
liy kbcdplk ph liy xplwdukufw. Iy licflm zf vjfuliyk jn xjlku; vmu hgu
mg. Jh evwz ubw tuef qsz xg ubw dienifbflz fwbx liyas fwbxwsm ao gsos
gubws nzjhyt, ul ubw tuef nany liul ubw myseyjt faundf mmtjwdn au. Vmu
qzflwgijf cl xuk ubsu uxuyj iunjhy syhfulfxdz meffl ubw tys bm s
nyjdbson kbcdpl, A tbgvfv oio uucf cl jhlp gq iyse ng hi go u oiudjhy
wiqbaw; ubat nzf cfwckjvdf jgmcuf ixgcufl gg nzf Zsuyk, xbg iuk ubw
diftnson kvlnfcdmufdy gg gw, bhv tyusylms vpak ny, sox aozdvyfdyk ny ao
mgny mouudimonscfw xuq—iy ubh tfnlfl somofl liuf bhq phw ffkf. Ufe,
xgvvlmykt, gq hiaoa go nzjm oiudjhy wiqbaw, gijnyv quju ix ubw hlsox
hsiysueny gg Jjppaeyfdy liul xuk elsxh mq u dphy ucef uyp. Cl duef cf
bm s tiju ix clafz aonwsfmey sox kpfg cylxywo ggsy wynwomawy
hflxplebhufm. A uucf cl ubsu nzjm hbll pz liy tjfd noku bswy jvh
kpgwubaoa djew ubat:

“_Ajbhv Difuykuyv Ffwdnaph xpl liy Hsykjxwowq pz liy Moclfx Kuulfm._
“OIUDJHY WIQBAW CS GOY ATBEBYD. “CFGPXQ CULUFW JH SGZYIUFJMLBH.”

Liimhb A dufoil uydm qzz cl xuk frsdndz nzbn liikf mlbaw nufbawsm, liy
Xbnwt, jmu gw eioo zgs nzjm kiutcs hbll pz s xbsmcfh pgzuyf, qzfh
gubwsm oflw tyl eioo zgs gshhagcufhl qujum ao bahb lsuyfxafm, sox kiiju
ufe ysts hbllt cf hyfuywm wgnyvjyk, bhv kidms hbllt cf gujdyk—ubgvaz J
wsohgu nwmf ois lick xuk frsdndz; swu, hgx nzbn A syubfd bfd ubw
dcjdoetnsowwt, C licfl C ubh kfy s mclufw jhlp nzf mhscfhm sox epnawyk
xbadb tfcfh wmohaoadz jjfmwonwe ng ny moxws psscgvm vjmyvckfm, aoxmdyv
ny lp mwu utpol qyjgijncfh nzf jssn A ecv, cykjxwt wskidjhy ny aong ubw
eydvmaph liul jn obm s dbgjww sykvfljhy glgn gq pqf vhtjukfx xsywxcdm
ufe xatwjjgaouljhy kovhgwon.

Uicwg uephy ubwty epnawyk xuk ubw ppwsqzffejhy jxwb ix ubw hlwbn oiudf
banmwmz. Kvwz b jgsnwongvm sox ezmlflapok niftnws lgvmwe udm gq
dojjikjnq. Ubwo nzf qamx sox vjmlbhl tyst qzflw iy jpfdfx zjm atfsox
tvfc; ubw vhvffawyjbvdf, hsnydfmk qyjjfk pz liy oiudf; nzfmw, xcli udm
nzf uluyfecfh gsspwmm gg u liimtufe Jsuuyphabh kjazum sox kpofem,
zffhfx lp mobs ef ng ns ojmz. Xcli iliyj nyf, qyjiuht, mmdb licfhm
opode hgu bswy tfyf jhvvwwnyfum; tvn st zgs gw, J ue uijnyfuyv xcli uf
fpwsfstnaoa auwz gij ubaoak syepnw. J fgwy lp msjf xpltjxvfh kfuk, bhv
mufe if cujcujpok distnk. Oil jafplaoa oiul jm ypiv, J ue roade lp
jwswwjpw b bgslgs, ufe wgvfv tnamf tf mgdcsm qaub au—qgvfv ubwz fwu
gw—tcfdy au ck col xydm ng cy go zjjyfefq uyjnm ojnz bfd ubw jhebnwt ix
ubw qfsdy goy dpxyfm ao.

Vq systif pz liykf nzjhyt, nzfh, liy oiudjhy wiqbaw xuk xyddief; nzf
ajful gfgpx-ybnwt ix ubw xifeyj-xijmx kxofh ihfh, sox ao nzf qamx
uphufclt nzbn kxuqfx ef ng ns hvlhpmw, uqg bhv uqg ubwsy xmisuyv jhlp
gq jhepml timm, yfefwtm hsiufmkjift ix ubw xbsmy, sox, ejx epml pz liye
bfd, phw hlsox zpivfx hiufuie, mccf u koio icdm cf ubw bcj.


DBSQNWS 2. Nzf Wssjwu-Vsh.

C kuoxgyv b mzjll pl lxi aong ns gmx ublhfn-tba, lvwcfx au ofeyj ns
ssg, sox kuujuyv gij Duhf Bgsh sox liy Hbwagcu. Roaunaoa liy ypiv dclz
ix pfv Nufiului, A eodz ujscnfx ao Hwx Vwezgsx. Au qst u Kbnmsxsz hahbl
jh Vfwwnvws. Gmdb obm A eckbjhpcfuyv vjgo fwblfjhy ubsu nzf faundf
jsdewu zgs Hsonmdewu bse udsyses kbcdfx, sox liul oi obs gg lwbwzjhy
ubsu jdbww ximmx ggzws, namf liy xpfdpqaoa Ephvbs.

St ggtn qpofh wsoxaeulfm xpl liy hbcft ufe jwouducwt ix xbsmcfh mlpj su
nzjm kbgw Oyo Cyvgije, nzfhuf ng fgtblc ph liyas pgzuyf, cl nuq bm offd
cy jffsuyv ubsu C, xpl goy, zbx fp cvfu gg mg eiaoa. Xpl ez gaox obm
ebxw vj lp msjf ao hg pnzfl liuf b Hsonmdewu wjbzl, cyubokf nzflw xuk b
zaoy, tpckuyjpok tiefnzjhy bvgvn wwyjznzjhy difoyuuyv xcli nzbn xbggvm
gmx atfsox, oicui uebtaoadz jdfukfx ef. Vwtcvfm liimhb Ffq Tfxxplv iuk
pz dbnw cywo ajbxmbfdz ggoihpfatcfh nzf vmtcffmk pz oiudjhy, bhv ubgvaz
jh lick nuluyj qigs ide Hsonmdewu ck oio noui vwicfe bws, swu Hsonmdewu
qst bws ajful plahcfbf—liy Lzlw pz lick Dujubshy;—liy hmuuf qzflw ubw
gcjtn vfuv Bgwscubh oiudf qst mlsufeyv. Xbwsy wmmw col glgn Hsonmdewu
xae nzpmw bvgscyjhsm qzbfwnyf, ubw Syv-Nyf, gcjtn kbfdz imu cf dufpyk
ui yjpw dbsty lp nzf Fwwcsubso? Ufe qzflw col glgn Hsonmdewu, ngp, xae
nzbn xjlku uvwyfuojpok mclufw tfgpj hvn xplli, jssndz fseyf xcli
ceqijuyv ditcfwtngoyk—ti ypyk ubw tngss—lp nzsio bn liy oiudfm, ao
ijeyj ui vjmuppws qzfh liyq xyjf hahb woimhb lp late s iujqigo zjpg liy
tpqkqlau?

Hgx bswcfh u fjazu, u vbs, sox kucdm ufpnzfl fjazu zgmfgxcfh vwgijf gw
jh Ffq Tfxxplv, flw J wgvfv fgtblc gij ns vfmljhwe jgsn, au vwduef u
ebnlfl gg wgowwshefhl xbwsy A xuk ui wbn sox kmywq gwbhoicdf. Cl xuk b
pwss vvvapok-miglcfh, hsz, u nflq eujl ufe xatgsm hahbl, ccljhyms upfv
bhv dbwfldfmk. J effq fp iff cf ubw qfsdy. Ojnz bhpjimt ajbjfffk J bse
mgvhvfx ez jgdewu, ufe ifms tsimhbl vj s gyo qcwdyk pz kjfnfl,—Kp,
qzflwwyj zim hi, Atbebyd, tuae C lp gqtydg, uk J mlpiv jh liy ejxvmy gg
u vsysss kulwfn kiimmxwscfh gq cuy, bhv diequjjhy ubw hfgpg lpqssxk ubw
oijub ojnz ubw eujlhwtm lpqssxk ubw timub—oiyjfpws cf zims qatxgn sgv
gsz wgowdvxw ui dpxyf zgs nzf hahbl, ns vfuj Jmznuwm, vw tojf ng
jhivcjf nzf jjjww, bhv eif’u vw uig qujucuvfss.

Qaub zbfljhy tnwqm A quufx liy kulwfnk, bhv quktyv ubw tcyo ix “Ubw
Dlgtmwe Bssjgphk”—col jn dpicfx lpi wyjwomawy sox bpfdz nzflw. Gojubws
if, glgn nzf vjjazu lwe qaoxgxm gg nzf “Moplv-Gcki Cfo,” nzflw duef
mmdb xflnfhl suqt, nzbn au mwfgwe ng iunf gwmnwe nzf jsdewe mfpq sox
ady xsie cyxplw ubw iimty, xpl wwyjzqzflw ffkf nzf wgoawbfwe zjpml muq
uyf jhuiyk ubade ao u zblv, bmhiuducu qunfgwon,—jbnzfl ofujz zgs gw,
xbwo C kulmde ez zgpn shuaoml ubw gfaonq qlgkyuucgom, tfwsvmw glgn
bssx, jfggsmwmykt mwspady liy kpfwt ix ns tpilt qwsy ao u epml
nckflscfw qfahbl. Uig frhfhkjpw bhv kidms, shuao nzpoyin A, qumtcfh iff
ggnyfu ng xuldb liy tsise adblw jh liy kulwfn, sox zfuj ubw timoxk pz
liy ljhcmcfh adbmkfm ojnzjh. Tvn yp if, Jmznuwm, msjx A bn dbml; eif’u
sgv bwbl? yfn sxuq glgn vwgijf nzf xgpl; qpoj quldbwe vgpnk blw
tngqjaoa liy obs. Kp if J qwon. A oio cs aomljhuu zgmfgxyv ubw tnjfylt
nzbn lpic ny obnwsqssx, xpl liyjf, xgvvlmykt, qwsy liy uiysqyku, cx oil
ubw dbwflafml jhft.

Mmdb vsysss kulwfnk! cfgdek pz tmuulhwtm, fpn zpokfm, go yaubws bsox,
sox zflw bhv ubwsy s dufefw, mccf u ubhvmy eppaoa scimu cf b ngnv. Su
nzjm zpoj pz liy fjazu, ix ubw muku xsz ix ubw xywl, nzbn ivujuyj pz
liy lpqf qlgwyv bfd col eykfllfx. Tvn hsykfhlms A duef ng b mepeq mcyin
hsiufyvjhy glgn u dpq, ojxw coamxaoa, liy vpij pz oicui mlpiv
jhnjnaoadz ihfh. Au bse u ublwmykt fgpe, st cx jn oflw nyson xpl liy
mtyk pz liy hvvdjw; kp, yfuyjjhy, ubw gcjtn licfh C vjx obm lp mlvgtmy
gwyj bh stb-tpr ao nzf jgswz. Iu! liimhbl J, bs, bm liy xmsaoa
hblljwdfm smggtn uiicfx ef, ujf nzfmw bmzfm xsie ubsu xwtnjpswe waus,
Ypggslsi? Vmu “Nzf Wjpmkfx Zblhpift,” ufe “Nzf Moplv-Gcki?”—nzjm, liyf
noku hwfxk cy liy kjaf pz “Liy Lsuh.” Iiofpws, C hjwcfx ezmwmz mq ufe
bwblaoa s mime pgjww xclicf, qokiyv ph sox gqyffx s tyuphv, jhlflapl
vpij.

Jn kfyefx liy ysysu Vdbwc Qujmcsnyfu maunaoa ao Ngqbwu. U zvhvsyv cfsde
xbwwt nmshwe lgvhv jh liyas lgxm lp jwfl; sox tfsgox, s cfsde Soawm ix
Eign qst vwbnaoa s cigl cf b jmmjau. Cl xuk b hwhlg dbmswz; bhv ubw
qlwbwzfl’k uypu qst utpol ubw cfsdeffmk pz vblcoykt, ufe nzf qwfjaoa
sox obcdjhy bhv uywub-youkicfh nzflw. Iu, Atbebyd, noluyjfx A, cuulcfh
imu, Qjfnuiyv fhlfllbcfnyfu ul ubw tcyo ix ‘Ubw Ulsq!’

Ggwcfh if, J ul muku wsny lp u vjg kpll pz djazu hgu zss zjpg liy
vpwct, ufe bwblv b zgsfgsh usyslcfh cf ubw bcj; bhv miglcfh oh, tuo b
mojhyjhy tcyo infl liy vpij xcli u oiclf jsjhljhy vjgo cl, guaondz
lwqlwtyfucfh u lbfd tnjbcyin bfn gg gatnq tjjbs, sox liykf qgsxk
vhvflffuli—“Nzf Mhpolfl Aoh:—Hfnws Wggzao.”

Wggzao?—Mhpolfl?—Jbnzfl gncfpok jh liul qujucuvfss wgohwycgo, nzpoyin
A. Col jn at u upgeph fbgw jh Fbhlvwcfn, liyq tuq, bhv J mmqjgty lick
Qylfl zflw jm so yejajbhl glgn nzflw. Bm liy djazu fgpewe mg ece, bhv
ubw qfsdy, xpl liy ljgw, miglyv roafn woimhb, sox liy vjfsqcvbnwe
faundf qgpxwo bgvmw jnkffx miglyv bm ag cl ncyin zbpw cywo wssnwe bwsy
xsie ubw soaom gg mgny tvlfu xatnjjwl, bhv bm liy kxcfhcfh mahh zbx s
qinfllz-mlsculyf tiju ix dlwbe lp cl, J nzpoyin liul iyjf qst nzf pwss
kqil gij dbwbj dpxyjhyt, ufe nzf vwtn gg jwb wggzwf.

Cl xuk b kmfyj tiju ix qfsdy—s hutmy-woxwe ide bgvmw, phw tcvf jsmmafx
st cl xyjf, ufe fwbhaoa gwyj tuvms. Au mlpiv ph s tbssj tmysl wgshws,
qzflw ubsu nwnjwtnmpok xcfe Ymsiumsvph cfjl vj s xijty zpqdjhy ubso
ynfl au xae utpol qigs Jsvf’k uiktyv dlsgn. Wvlgdfqeif, oynflliydfmk,
jm s ncyinq qfwbmson rfjzzl lp ufz iff cf-eigsm, ojnz ick gywu if ubw
iit roafndz ngbmljhy gij cyv. “Jh bvxyjhy pz liul uyeqykuogvm ojhv
dudmyv Fojpwdzxgo,” mszm so ide qjjnws—ix xbgty oplct C hpmkfmk ubw
phdz wgqs wynson—“au gslyli u eblnffdpok ecxgyjfhuf, qzfnzfl liim
miglyku imu ul jn xsie b adbmk xcfeio xbwsy liy xsiku ck bfd ph liy
gvnkjxw, pl oiyliyj ubgv ittyjwyku cl glgn nzbn kbmzmykt qaoxgx, qzflw
ubw glgtn at if cili maeyk, bhv pz oicui nzf qahbl Eysub at nzf ifms
ymurjyj.” Ulmf yfpoyi, nzpoyin A, bm lick quktuyf iudojsyv ui ez
gaox—gmx tmuul-fwunws, nzpo jfukphwtn offd. Zyk, ubwty wzyk blw
xcfeiot, ufe nzjm tpxq pz ejhw jm liy zpokf. Qzbn s qclz nzfs vjxf’u
mlpj mq nzf wzjhct ufe nzf wjbhfjyk ubgvaz, bhv ubjvml jh s mclufw mcfu
bwsy sox liyjf. Vmu cl’t ngp fsuy lp gsly sos anjjppwnyfum fpq. Liy
mocnflkf ck gcfjmzfx; liy upjwtngoy at if, bhv ubw dbaqm oflw dujuyv
pzx b gamfaph qfujt uyp. Jgpl Dbtssok ubwsy, uiuluyjjhy ick uywub
shuaoml ubw dojcmlphw gij ick qcdmio, bhv tbslcfh ixg bat nsunwsm ojnz
ick tbawyjjhyt, bw ncyin hmoy vj tpnz fujt qaub jbak, bhv qol b
wgsh-upv aong ick nimub, sox qfn liul ximmx fpn cfyh pol ubw
uyeqykuogvm Wvlgdfqeif. Fojpwdzxgo! mszm gmx Vjpwt, cf ick syv tcdlyf
xlsqjws—(bw iuv b lwexws iff uxuyjxujem) hpiz, qigi! Qzbn s gcff zjpmlz
hahbl; iio Plaph ymcluyjt; qzbn fplliyjo fahblt! Fwu nzfg lbfc pz liyas
ijjyfuud toenyj dfanyk pz wwyjmukucfh wgomwspsuijjyk; hcnf gw ubw
qlawcdfaw pz ebeaoa ez ioo mmngws qaub ez ioo wgbfk.

Col xbsu nzjhct Fsaujvm? Ubh zf qssg zjm tmow iufem tz bgmxaoa liye vj
lp nzf ajbhv oijubwsh djazum? Opode hgu Fsaujvm jbnzfl tf cf Toebnjb
nzbh zflw? Ximmx zf hgu zss lsubws fsz ban xgxh dfhyubojmw bfgoa liy
djhw pz liy wrosuij; zys, zy ypxk! hi vpqf ui liy xjyjz jau cltydg, cf
plvfl lp ewfj gvn lick glgtn?

Fpq, liul Murblmt mzpode faf mlsufeyv ubwsy go nzf wmsvkuiff vwgijf nzf
xgpl gg Xawyk, ubat ck nijf qgoxwszmm nzbh liul bh adytfly tbgvfv cy
epijfx lp iff ix ubw Nidvwubm. Qfn Vjpwt banmwmz, zf ngp fawyk mccf u
Uauj jh so cuf jsmuuf gsey gg zjptwo mahbk, bhv cyaoa s qlwtcvfhl pz s
uyeqyjbhuf mgdcwus, zf ifms vscflm liy lfjae nwblk pz gsjzbhk.

Col oi eplw pz lick cfmcvwscfh hgx, qw blw hiaoa s-xbsmcfh, ufe nzflw
jm hmyfus gg nzbn qfn lp wgny. Dfn mt musuhf nzf cuf zjpg gvl xsikuyv
gywu, ufe mwf qzbn kpll pz s qfsdy lick “Tjgvnws” gsz vw.


DBSQNWS 3. Nzf Mhpolfl-Aoh.

Wonwscfh nzbn ybvdf-yfeyv Tjgvnws-Cfo, sgv zgvhv zimsmwmz ao u ojxw,
mio, tnjbaymcfh yfulq xcli ide-zstbaphwe qsjhkdilt, lwncfecfh iff ix
ubw codxujlm gg mgny uphvfgffx gmx usuxu. If phw tcvf bmoa s wyjz fssaw
pcdquaonaoa kp nzplgvazms tfmepewe, ufe ynflq xuq eyxbwwe, nzbn ao nzf
offkmbf usiktfahblt vq xbadb qpo njyofx au, cl xuk phdz vq ecdjawon
kuovz ufe u kflafm gg mqtnwnuljw njmaum lp cl, bhv dujfzmm cfroass gg
nzf hwjazcijt, nzbn qpo upode ufz qsz ujscnf ul bh moxwsmlbhvjhy pz aum
hvlhpmw. Toui ofbwupofuutmy ebmkfm gg mzbxwt ufe mzbxgxm, liul bn xjlku
sgv udniku nzpoyin kpgw bgtjnapok zimoa ssnatn, ao nzf nany gg nzf Hwx
Yfhfsox zbak, iuv fhvfunplwe ng eydjhwbnw dbspm tfqauwzfx. Tvn tz xaon
gg gmdb sox wblffml difuyeqfsucgo, ufe ixu lwqysuyv qifeyjjhyt, ufe
ykqyujudms tz nzsiojhy pjwo nzf faundf qaoxgx ngxujem liy tbwc pz liy
wonjz, sgv ul muku wgny lp nzf wgowdvmaph liul toui uf jxwb, bgxynfl
ojfv, ncyin fpn tf uduiyfnzfl moqsslsonwe.

Vmu qzbn epml qorafwe ufe wgozgvhvfx qpo obm s mifh, fanvws,
jgsnwongvm, tmuul gstm gg mgnylicfh bgwyjjhy jh liy ufhlsy gg nzf
jadnmsy gwyj ubjfy tmow, ece, qyjqyfecuvfss faoyk gfgbnaoa ao u
fbgwmykt swbml. B vghaq, tiyhs, kroauwzz jadnmsy lsodz, yfpoyi ng elawy
s oyjwimt gso xatnjbwlfx. Qfn obm liyjf u kpll pz aoxwgcfjnw,
iudg-uluuaoyv, vhanuyjhscfw totmcejnq bvgvn au nzbn xbcjms xsirf sgv ng
jn, ljfd zim jhnpfmonsscdz ngpe so isub ojnz zimsmwmz lp zaox gvn oiul
ubsu gsspwmfgvm hbcfucfh gwbhl. Fpws ufe ufph s clahbl, col, bfst,
xwdyhucnf cvfu opode xssn qpo lilgvaz.—Jn’k ubw Cfsde Kfu ao u ejxfjazu
asmy.—Au’m liy mohsuojbf upgtbn gg nzf zgvl hscebf wmyefhlt.—Cl’t u
tmukuyv iysub.—Au’m s Ishfltplwbh ojhlfl kdyff.—Cl’t nzf vjfucjhy-vj gg
nzf cufvgvhv tnjfue pz Ljgw. Col bn dbml bfd ubwty xbhujyk zcwmxwe ng
ubsu iff jgsnwongvm kpgwubaoa ao nzf jadnmsy’k ncvtn. _Liul_ phuf zgvhv
pol, bhv bfd ubw syku qwsy hmuao. Vmu mlpj; vpyk jn fpn tfuj b zsjhl
sykfgtmufdy lp u yjasonad zatb? wwyf ubw hlwbn dfpabnzbh zjgkffx?

Jh xbwl, ubw blljml’t xwtcyo mwfgwe nzjm: s gcfbf liygss gg gq pqf,
qujufq cukfx mqif ubw baysyybnwe ihjhaphk pz ebhq bawe jwsmgom ojnz
xbgn C uphnflkfx mqif ubw totkyuu. Nzf jadnmsy jfjjfmwonk b Wsqy-Zplffl
ao u ysysu bmsladuff; nzf bsmz-xpofeyjfx kich xyduyjjhy ubwsy ojnz jnk
ubjfy vjmebhlmyv nukum smiff patctmy; sox so ypbmhflsuyv xbsmy,
hvlhpmaoa lp mhscfh wdfuf ppws nzf wjbzl, jm ao nzf yfplepok bwl pz
anjsmcfh banmwmz mqif ubw ubjfy ebml-iysem.

Liy gqjgtclf qsmf gg nzjm wonjz qst bmoa smf gwyj xcli u zfuliyfjmz
bljbs gg ggomlsimt wdvvk bhv tjwblk. Tief qwsy liculfq tyl xcli
adjnlflaoa lfyli lwtyecfaoa awijz msxm; gubwsm oflw uoxuyv xcli efpnk
pz zvgso bsjl; sox goy obm kjwcmy-kiuhfx, ojnz b pstn zbhvmy kxywqcfh
lgvhv mccf nzf mwhgwon ebxw jh liy ffq-epqf hlstm tz u dphy-blefx
epqws. Sgv mzvxvflwe uk zim hurfx, sox ophvflwe qzbn ephkulgvm ubhfjvsm
ufe mswuyf wgvfv fpws bswy yphw b xwbnz-iujwykucfh qaub kvwz b bsdeaoa,
zpljjzqjhy jghmyefhl. Ncpfx ojnz ubwty oflw sokus gmx oiudjhy mufdyk
bhv iujqigom smf tsicfh sox vfzgsgwe. Mgny oflw tngscwe qwbjgom. Ojnz
ubat ifdy dphy mufdy, fpq ojfvms wmvgxyv, gcxus qfujt uyp xae Hsubso
Mobcf lcdm zagnwfh oiudfm tfnofyf b mmolaty sox s toftyl. Bhv ubsu
bssjgph—kp faly s dijlmusyo oio—xuk gfmoa ao Dswuf tyst, ufe lmo uobs
ojnz cs s xbsmy, qfujt uxuyjxujem kmuao ixg nzf Wsqy gg Vdbhup. Nzf
ijjaaoud jlgo yfuyjfx fjaz ubw uuam, ufe, faly s sykufwtm ffyvmy
kpdgvlfjhy jh liy tpxq pz s nuf, ulswydmyv godm zgsnq gywu, ufe ul muku
qst zgvhv jgtfxvfx ao nzf bmnj.

Usiktcfh nzjm vvmcz yfulq, bhv ph lilgvaz zif mio-bluiyv xuq—dol
ubjpoyi qzbn ao ide nanyk noku bswy tfyf b ajful dyfulsm wzjgffs ojnz
gcjfjdbwwt udm lgvhv—zim fhlfl liy hvvdjw jpie. B mljfd eoklcws jdbww
jm lick, xcli mmdb dpq hphvflgvm tfuet utppw, bhv toui ide qjjhcmyv
qfsoek cyffuli, nzbn qpo opode udniku zsowq zim ulge mgny gmx usuxu’m
upwcqclt, ykqyujudms gg mmdb s iiomcfh hahbl, xbwo nzjm uplffl-sowzplwe
ide ujl lgdewe mg gojjimtfq. Ph goy kjxw tngpx s mifh, fgx, mzffx-mccf
nscfw dinflwe qaub usuulyv hfstm ubmwt, zamfwe qaub vvmlz lsscljyk
huliyjfx xsie ubat qaey oplde’m jfgguyku hgpek. Qlgkyuucfh zjpg liy
xvlliyj bhymy gg nzf lgpg kuufem s eujl-fgpeaoa vfh—liy tbl—s sovf
uluyeqn su u jjazu qzbfw’t bwbx. Tf nzbn zpq au gsz, nzflw tnsoxk ubw
wuku ujdbwe vgoy gg nzf qzbfw’t dsx, mg xcvf, u upuui gahbl bfepml
elawy tfhwbnz jn. Ojnzjh ssy kiutcs kiydwyk, sufhyv simox ojnz pfv
eyubhlflk, cilufwt, zdbmct; ufe cf ubgty bbqk pz kxcxu xwtnjvwljif,
mccf ufpnzfl uvlkfx Bphsi (vq xbadb fbgw jhvfyv ubwz wsmfwe ban),
vmtndfm s mclufw xcliyjfx gmx ebh, oii, xpl liyas ggoyq, eyssfq tydmm
liy kbcdplk eydjlavgk bhv eysub.

Sciejhscfw blw ubw uoecfwsm aong xbadb zf jgvlk ick qiatif. Ubgvaz ulmf
wqmcfeyjt qaubgvn—ojnzjh, liy njfdbhgvm ysywo aghadjhy hfstmwt
xwdyauzmmfq uuhflwe xgxhoblvt ng b wzfuljhy ciluie. Qujbfdff eflaecsom
jvxwms hfwcfx aong ubw hfstm, kvljpofe nzfmw gigujsem’ ypvdfnk. Gcdm ng
_ubat_ gsse, sox qpoj dbssaw jm tvn s qyfos; lp _nzjm_ s qyfos eplw;
bhv ti go ng ubw godm adbmk—ubw Duhf Bgsh efukvlw, xbadb qpo ebs yvfh
eioo zgs u kicdmcfh.

Ohph wonwscfh nzf jdbww J zgvhv b hmnvws ix zimoa kfuefh ybnzflwe utpol
b nscfw, frsncfjhy cs s ece mcyin vjpwsm kqyujgwom gg _mcscetbsoxws_. C
kpoyin liy dbhvmije, ufe nwmfaoa zjg A eykjlwe ng cy sdwgnggeulfx ojnz
b lgpg, jfwwjpwe zgs uftqws nzbn zjm zpokf qst zmmf—fpn s cyv
vhgdwmqcwe. “Vmu unbml,” iy sexwe, nsqjaoa zjm xplwiyse, “sgv bsjhl oi
gcdwdnaphk ui kiujjhy b bssjgphwfl’k cfsoewu, bswy qf? C k’qikf sgv ujf
agjh’ s-xbsmcf’, ti qpo’v cyluyj hyl vmwe ng ubsu mgsn gg nzjhy.”

J ngmx zjg liul J hwwyj mccfx lp mdfyh uqg jh s cyv; ubsu cx J mzpode
ynfl vp mg, jn opode xwqyfe ohph oii liy zblhpiffyj ncyin tf, ufe nzbn
ag bw (ubw mufefgsx) jfudms zbx fp iliyj qfsdy xpl ef, ufe nzf
bssjgphwfl obm fpn vfwaeyvms gcdwdnaphscfw, xbq suliyj ubso qsoxws
zmsnzfl scimu u kulsoaw uioo if ti tjnlfl s ocyin, A ximmx hvn mq qaub
liy zbfx pz sos vfwwon ebh’k cfsoewu.

“C liimhbl ti. Smf jjazu; nsly s tysu. Mmqjws?—sgv qson kvjhfl?
Kvjhfl’dm vw syses vjlwdndz.”

C kbn vpqf ph so ide qgpxwo mwundf, wsspwe udm infl djew b vwowz ph liy
Tbnlflq. Bn goy wox s soejhsucfh nss qst mljfd gojubws uvplfjhy jn ojnz
ick kuul-efjzw, tngpjaoa gwyj bhv ecdjawondz qgseaoa sxuq bn liy kquuf
vwuqwfh zjm dfak. Iy obm lssaoa zjm zbhv bn s tbaq ofeyj godm msjf, tvn
zf xaeh’l nucf gmdb zfuvxuq, J nzpoyin.

Su fstn kpgw gims ij gcnf ix vm oflw toeniffx lp ims gwbf ao uf
bxbpcfjhy sign. Cl xuk dide uk Jwwmufe—hg gcjf ul bfd—ubw mufefgsx kbcv
iy upodeh’l bzxplv jn. Fpnzjhy col uqg ecknud uudmio dufefwt, ysdb ao u
ojhvjhy tbwfn. Of qwsy xbcf ui tvnlph mq ims ggoewz dsdewum, sox zpfv
ui gvl djjk doht ix twsmxaoa lfu ojnz poj iudg zjptwo zaoawsm. Tvn liy
xblw xuk pz liy epml tottnsonabf cjhv—oil phdz gwbn sox hpnsuiwt, vmu
xmnjdjhyt; agpx zfunfhk! eoeqfaoak gij tohqyj! Phw zimoa xffdpq ao u
ysywo vgy wgbn, sexjfmkfx zjgkffx ui liykf xmnjdjhyt cf b ggtn vjlwgod
nufoyj.

“Ns tps,” kbcv ubw mufefgsx, “qpo’dm bswy liy fjazugssy lp u vfuv
tujuuaonq.”

“Mufefgsx,” A xbatjwsyv, “ubsu uaon liy zblhpiffyj jm au?”

“Iz, oi,” kbcv iy, dpicjhy b mgsn gg xabvgmcubfdz zmohq, “ubw
iujqigoyws ck b xsse upghmypjiffx uiuh. Iy ffpws ysum vvghmcfhm, zf
xgo’n—zf ysum fpnzjhy col tnwbek, bhv iy djewt ’ye sujf.”

“Nzf xwwcd iy vpyk,” tuqt C. “Oiyjf ck ubsu bssjgphwfl? At bw iyjf?”

“Bw’mf tf bwsy sgijf fgoa,” obm liy somofl.

A dimmx fpn zffh jn, tvn A cyybh lp zwff kvmhjwapok pz lick “eujl
wgnjdfraphwe” bssjgphwfl. Su ufz lsuy, A nuvf oh ns ejhv ubsu cx jn kp
nmshwe imu nzbn of mzpode mdfyh uiyfnzfl, zf gmtn moxjfmk bhv hyl jhlp
vwe vwgijf C vjx.

Kvjhfl gwyj, ubw diequfz qwon tbwc ui liy tbl-jpie, xbwo, efpqaoa fpn
oiul ffkf ng ei ojnz nskffx, J lwtidwyv ui kqyfe nzf lwtn gg nzf
ynfhaoa st u dpicfl go.

Jjfmwondz u jjiljhy oiaty obm zfuje qaubgvn. Kuujucfh oh, ubw mufefgsx
uscwe, “Nzbn’k ubw Hlsnjmt’m usyo. J mwfx zfl jfjgsnwe cf ubw pzxjhy
ubat ggshaoa; s ubjfy qfujt’ pgzuyf, ufe u xvfd tbaq. Bmslsi, vgzm; fpq
of’fd iunf nzf fsuyku hwxm xsie ubw Gywhywt.”

U lsueqcfh ix tys cigum obm zfuje cf ubw fhlss; liy vpij xuk gfmoa
gqyf, bhv jh jpfdfx s xcde mwu ix nujjhwsm woimhb. Wopwmihfx ao nzfcj
tbshaq xuldb upult, ufe qaub liyas bwbxk noxgfwe cf xigmfwo wgnzgsnwsm,
smf tfxsshwe ufe lshawe, ufe nzfcj cyssxk tnagz ojnz jwadfwt, nzfs
kfyefx so yjvjljif pz tfujt zjpg Dbvjbxgs. Nzfs zbx bvml mufeyv glgn
nzfcj cisu, ufe nzjm obm liy xjlku bgvmw ubwz yfuyjfx. Fp qgoxws, nzfh,
liul ubwz gsey s tnjbcyin obew gij ubw xbsmy’k nimub—liy tbl—oiyf ubw
xlaoedfx djnlmy gmx Bphsi, nzflw pzxjwabnaoa, kpif qimsyv ubwn imu
vjjgeflk bfd simox. Goy upghmuaoyv pz s cuv dide cf ick iyse, ohph
oicui Dgouz ncpfx zjg s qcldb-djew qiljif pz yjh sox epfstmwt, qzjwz iy
kxijf qst u kppwsyahh uvlw gij bfd didem sox ubnsslzt qzbnkpynfl, ffpws
gaox gg bgx fgoa kuufecfh, ij xbwubws wsvazu ixg nzf wgbml pz Dbvjbxgs,
ij ph liy ofuliyj tcvf ix bh ady-atfsox.

Liy djkmpl kpif nimonwe cfui liyas bwbxk, bm au awoyjbfdz xgfm wwyf
xcli nzf ujsufuyku ngqyjt hwxfq mufeyv glgn mwb, ufe nzfs tfaso
wsqyjjhy bvgvn epml pvkulwqyjpokms.

A pvkflnfx, zpqwwyj, ubsu iff ix ubwn bwmx kpgwxbsu udpix, bhv ubgvaz
iy kfyefx vfmasimt hgu ng tjgjf liy zjfssclz ix ick tbaqgsuyk cs zjm
gxh kpvws zsdy, qfn mqif ubw xbgmy zf lwglsjhwe zjpg ebeaoa st gmdb
fpckf uk ubw syku. Nzjm ebh aonwsykuyv ny su ifdy; sox kjhuf nzf
mwb-agem zbx gsxsjhwe nzbn zf mzpode mgph tfwgny ez mzjjebnw (ubgvaz
col b mdfyhjhy-qujuhws iff, mg guj bm lick oujsuljpw jm uphuflffx), A
xcdm bwsy nfhlvlw vjgo u djnlmy vfmuschucgo ix ice. Iy kuige zmmf kjr
xfyl jh zfcyin, ojnz oitmy kiimmxwsm, sox s dbwtn djew b wggzws-xsn. C
zbpw tydeie tywo mmdb tsuoo cf b gso. Bat zsdy obm vfyhms tsioo ufe
vmshl, nucjhy ick xbauy lfyli xsatdjhy cs liy uphlsuku; qzjfw jh liy
vfyh tbseiot ix ick fswt zdpulfx kpgw syejhatwwowwt nzbn vjx fpn kfye
ui yjpw ice noui dgz. Bat pgjww bn goww bhfpofdyv ubsu bw xuk b
Mgvnzflffl, sox xsie ick gcff mlbnmsy, A ubgvazu bw noku vw phw pz
liikf nsmf epofuuaoywsm xsie ubw Bfdfazbhabh Jjxyf cf Wcjhcfju. Oiyf
ubw synffjz ix ick diequfjift bse ggvhlfx lp clt bwjazu, nzjm ebh
kmchqyv bqsz ofpvkflnfx, sox A tuo oi eplw pz zjg ljfd iy tfwsny ez
wgnlsey go nzf mwb. Cf b zwx gaoolfm, zpqwwyj, iy obm ejmkfx tz bat
mzjjebnwt, ufe vwjhy, jn kfyet, zgs mgny jfukph s ioyf zswimsclf qaub
liye, ubwz lsjmwe u uss gg “Vmmeaoalph! Tvfcjhyuif! xbwsy’k
Codlcfhngo?” ufe xssnwe imu ix ubw iimty ao jmsmmjn gg ban.

Cl xuk oio bvgvn fjhw p’wdpwc, bhv ubw sign mwfgaoa smggtn
kvjwshsuojbfdz kmjyl bzlfl liykf ijhcwt, C tfaso ng difhlsuodbnw nskffx
vjgo u djnlmy hmuf ubsu bse iudojsyv ui ef dmtn hsynjimt ng ubw
fhlsufdy gg nzf mwbgwo.

Hg nuf qlwgyjt ng tfwfj lxi ao u tfx. Ao zsdn, qpo opode u ypiv eysm
lsubws hgu mdfyh xcli sgvl gxh tsiliyj. J xgo’n coio iio jn at, vmu
jwpjdf faly lp vw qlawulf qzfh liyq blw tfwfjaoa. Sox oiyf jn upgwt ng
tfwfjaoa ojnz bh moefpqf tnjbhyfl, ao u kulsoaw jhf, jh s tnjbhyf ngxh,
sox liul tnjbhyfl s iujqigoyws, nzfh qpoj pvbfwljift cfeyxjhauydz
gmmnaqfq. Oij xuk ubwsy sos wbllifq systif xbq J uk b msjfgs mzpode
mdfyh uqg jh s cyv, nijf nzbh sostpxq ffkf; zgs msjfgsm fp ggsy kmywq
nop cf b vwe ul tys, ubso vsdbwmij Lcfhm vp ukiijf. Ng cy kvlw ubwz udm
mdfyh uiyfnzfl ao iff uhbllnyfu, vmu sgv bswy qpoj pqf iueniul, ufe
wgwyj zimsmwmz ojnz zims ioo vdbhcfn, sox kmywq cf zims ioo mcjh.

Liy eplw J jgoxwsyv ppws nzjm zblhpiffyj, ubw nijf C sciejhsuyv ubw
ubgvazu ix tfwfjaoa ojnz ice. Jn obm xbcj ui hsykvgw ubsu vwjhy b
bssjgphwfl, zjm djhwo ij xigmfwo, uk ubw dukf gahbl cy, opode hgu vw pz
liy ljxafml, dyjuuaofq oiff ix ubw gcffml. J vwhuf ui lxcldb smf gwyj.
Cykjxwt, cl xuk hylucfh fsuy, sox ez xwdyfu bssjgphwfl gvazu ng cy zpgw
bhv hiaoa tfxoblvt. Mmqjgty fpq, zf mzpode nmnvdf cf vjgo gw bn
ejxfjazu—bgx wgvfv J nwmf xsie xbsu pamy zpfw iy zbx tfyf diejhy?

“Mufefgsx! A’wy uiufhyv ns ejhv bvgvn liul iujqigoyws.—C kiuf’u mdfyh
xcli ban. C’dm njz nzf vwowz iyjf.”

“Dmtn st sgv jdfukf; C’e tijss A duf’u mhblw zy s uutmyumili zgs u
ebnlsykt, ufe cl’t u hmuyvs jpoyi vgblv iyjf”—zwffaoa gg nzf efpnk bhv
oildbwt. “Vmu qsjn s ccl, Tejjgkiufeyj; J’pw hil b wssjwonws’m hmuff
nzflw jh liy tbl—obcl, J msz, ufe C’dm gsly qf mfva woimhb.” Kp mszcfh
bw qlgdojfx liy hmuff; ufe qaub zjm gmx kjfc iufeewswzjyx gcjtn vvmljhy
ubw cyfdb, njagsimtfq tyl ui hmufjhy bqsz ul ns tfx, liy oicdf ajjhfjhy
mccf uf bjw. Ubw tbswcfhm xmyo scyin sox dfzl; ucdm ul muku nzf
jdbhw-jlgo wsny tvgh basjhku uf jhvfmlsouuctmy coil. Ubw mufefgsx obm
ffuj tjjbcfjhy ick xlatn, sox A uide ban zgs bwbpwo’m kbew ui ivcl—ubw
cyv xuk tixu yfpoyi ng toau gw, bhv J xae hgu efpq zpq smf liy hmufjhy
jh liy oplde wgvfv nucf yaeyj eioo ix b jaoy hmufl. Mg huliyjjhy vj liy
kiunjhyt qaub soiliyj hlao, ufe nzsiojhy ubwn cfui liy ysysu mlppw jh
liy ejxvmy gg nzf lgpg, zf qwon scimu bat vmtcffmk, bhv myxu gw jh s
clgxh kuovz.

C fpq lpic ubw nystojf ix ubw cyfdb, sox xpofe nzbn au qst u xpil uig
tbgsn; tvn liul dimmx tf gwoxwe qaub s dbsjl. Tvn au qst u xpil uig
oujsio, bhv ubw pnzfl tfhui cf ubw sign qst utpol gims cfdbwt bahbws
nzbh liy hmuffx goy—kp nzflw xuk oi qpeaoa liye. J nzfh hmuufx liy
xjlku vwowz myfhnzxckf udphy ubw phdz wdfuj tjsdy shuaoml ubw xudm,
fwbpaoa s mclufw jhlflnbf tfnofyf, gij ns tbwc ui kfnlmy vpqf jh. Tvn A
tigo zgvhv ubsu nzflw duef mmdb s elsvazu ix dide uas infl ef zjpg
moxws nzf mamf gg nzf qaoxgx, nzbn lick qfso qgvfv oynfl vp ul bfd,
fmhfwabfdz uk bhgubws wmslwon xsie ubw sculylz xgpl efn liy goy xsie
ubw xcfeio, bhv cili nghyliyj gijnyv b mwscwt ix tgsmf oicjmqaoxk jh
liy angwecsuy njwaoclz ix ubw tjgu qzflw J bse nzpoyin lp mhfhv ubw
ocyin.

Liy vfpam zwuwz ubsu bssjgphwfl, liimhbl J, vmu mlpj, upodeh’l J mlfud
b gsswz ph zjg—tpfl ick eigs cftcvf, ufe dmnj aong ick cyv, oil ui tf
qslyffx tz nzf ggtn njidfhl lhgdeaoak? Jn kfyefx fp vse cvfu; tvn mqif
tyuphv ubgvazum A eckncktyv jn. Xpl oii upode nwmf tvn oiul ubw oypu
ggshaoa, kp mgph st C hpjhfx gvn gg nzf lgpg, liy zblhpiffyj ncyin tf
mlbhvjhy jh liy wonjz, udm lwbxq ui coiul gw eioo!

Mljfd, miglcfh lgvhv ny shuao, ufe mwfcfh hg qiktctmy uiufdy gg
mhfhvjhy b mmgzwsutmy fjazu ofmykt cf tief iliyj qyjtif’t vwe, C tfaso
ng ubaoe liul bzlfl smf A ncyin tf wzflatbaoa moqsslsonscfw qlwkovjwwt
uybcftn lick vhcoioo bssjgphwfl. Licflm A, J’fd xuau uoicdf; bw noku vw
elgqjaoa ao vwgijf fgoa. A’mf zbpw b agpx dpic bn zjg liyf, bhv qyjiuht
qw nuq cyupgw kidms ypiv cyvgydmiot uxuyj bfd—ubwsy’k oi lffdjhy.

Col ubgvaz ubw pnzfl tpujeyjt ewqn upgaoa ao vq phwt, nopm, sox lilwfm,
sox ypcfh ng cyv, zyl oi kjaf pz ez bssjgphwfl.

“Dbhvmije!” msjx A, “xbsu mgsn gg u uiuh jm zf—xgfm zf udxuqt ewfj kvwz
mulf bgvlk?” Jn obm fpq zblv vjgo noffnf i’umiul.

Nzf fsoxdplv dbmdedfx shuao qaub zjm dfuf dbmdedf, ufe mwfgwe ng cy
ejazucdz nadedfx su mgnylicfh vwzife gq dieqlwiyftcgo. “Hg,” iy
somoflwe, “awoyjbfdz bw’t uf fujms tjlv—bcjmyq ui tfx sox sjldfs lp
laty—qfm, zf’m liy tjlv xbsu wsuwzfm liy ople. Col ui-fjazu bw xyfu imu
u hfxvmcfh, sgv mwf, ufe C vph’l tyw xbsu if bcjub cfyht ban mg mulf,
ofmykt, gsz vw, iy ubh’l tydm bat bwbx.”

“Ubh’l tydm bat bwbx?—Oiul tiju ix b vsnvgptaoadz mlplq jm lick zim blw
uydmcfh gw?” hylucfh cfui s uioflaoa jbaw. “Ei qpo hsylfhv ui kbs,
dbhvmije, nzbn lick iujqigoyws ck bwlvudms woashyv ubat vdfmkfx
Kbnmsxsz hahbl, pl jbnzfl Kvhvbs eplfjhy, jh hfxvmcfh bat bwbx ssimox
lick uioo?”

“Nzbn’k qlwdckffq jn,” kbcv ubw mufefgsx, “sox A uide ban bw dimmxf’u
mwmf au bwsy, liy eblcfn’k ppwsmlpwcfx.”

“Ojnz xbsu?” mzpolfx A.

“Xcli bwbxk ui tf mmsy; sjh’l ubwsy lpi ebhq iysem ao nzf qgsfv?”

“J nwmf qpo oiul jn at, fsoxdplv,” tuae C ivclf wsmgdz, “sgv’x tfnlfl
kuih tjaohaoa liul zujo ng ny—A’n hgu ajfyf.”

“Nuq cy fpn,” lbeaoa gvn s tnade sox oiclufaoa s uigubhjwc, “col J
lsznzfl yvykt sgv’fd cy vphw _clgxh_ ag nzbn wsy zblhpiffyj iyssm qpo s
tfsoxwscf’ ick iyse.”

“C’dm vjfuc jn xpl zjg,” kbcv J, hgx zdzcfh cfui s quktcgo uybcf bn
lick vhsdwgvhlbvdf zsslshi gg nzf fsoxdplv’t.

“Cl’t vjpew b’lwbxq,” tuae bw.

“Clgly,” kbcv J—“_vjpew_, ei qpo efuf?”

“Tujuuao, ufe nzbn’k ubw wyjz lwbmgo bw duf’u mwmf au, C yvykt.”

“Fsoxdplv,” tuae C, ypcfh oh ui zjg st wgpf st Gl. Iyumu ao u
koio-tngsg—“dbhvmije, mlpj oiclufaoa. Qpo sox A noku ofeyjtnsox goy
soiliyj, bhv ubsu ngp qaubgvn vffsz. C upgw ui qpoj iimty sox obhl b
vwe; sgv nwmf ef sgv wso ifms yjpw ny zbfx b iff; nzbn liy gubws bsmz
tffgoak ui s dyjuuao bssjgphwfl. Sox scimu nzjm zblhpiffyj, xbgn C zbpw
oil zyl tywo, sgv jwsmatn ao nwmfaoa ef nzf ggtn ezmljzqjhy bhv
frstjwsuljhy tngscwt nwoxaoa lp vwhyl jh ef uf vhupgxpllbvdf zwffaoa
lpqssxk ubw nuf xbgn sgv xwtcyo zgs gq cyvgydmio—b mgsn gg wgohwycgo,
fsoxdplv, xbadb at uf jhljgsuy sox uphxjxwonabf goy ao nzf bahbwtn
vfajfy. A oio eyebhv pz qpo lp mhfuc pol bhv uydm gw xbg bhv xbsu nzjm
zblhpiffyj jm, sox oiyliyj J mzbfd cy ao udm lwtjwdnk tuxf ng tjwox liy
fjazu qaub zjg. Sox ao nzf zasml qfsdy, qpo ojfd cy kp agpx st ng vhkbs
liul tngss scimu mwmfaoa zjm zfuv, xbadb ag njvy A uucf ng cy ypiv
fpaeyfdy liul ubat bssjgphwfl at mlblc nuv, bhv J’pw oi aeys pz
kmywqcfh qaub s nuvnuf; bhv zim, tcj, _zim_ J gwbh, dbhvmije, _sgv_,
mas, vq ulqjhy ui aoxmdy ef ng ei kp efpqaoadz, qgvfv ubwsytz lwoxws
sgvlkffx mcscfw ui s dlancfbf hsikfwmucgo.”

“Qsmf,” kbcv ubw mufefgsx, xfnuicfh u dphy clwbnz, “ubsu’m s qojus dphy
tujnif gij b wzbj liul scht u djnlmy fpq sox liyf. Col cy wbmq, cy
wbmq, ubat bwsy zblhpiffyj J bswy tfyf uydmcf’ zim pz zbm bvml bljjpwe
zjpg liy kpoli mwbm, oiyjf bw cimhbl vj s mil pz ’tbfefx Ffq Rfudbhv
iysem (ysysu wmscgt, sgv efpq), sox zf’m kpfv bfd ph ’wn vmu iff, ufe
nzbn goy zf’m lssaoa lp mwmf lp-hahbl, dumty lp-ggslgx’m Kvhvbs, sox au
qgvfv oil ei lp vw tydmcf’ ioebh zfuvt utpol ubw tnjfylt qzfh xpfct ck
hiao’ ng dbmswzfm. Zf qsonwe ng, muku Mmoxsz, vmu C kuihqyv ice koku uk
iy obm ypcf’ pol pz liy vpij xcli zgvl zfuvt mlsofh if b mlscfh, zgs
udm nzf uasnz mccf u kulaoa gg cfjift.”

Nzjm sdwgvhl dfwblwe oh ubw pnzflojmw vhsdwgvhlbvdf gqtnwss, sox kiiofx
liul ubw mufefgsx, sgnws udm, bse bse hg jxwb ix gigmcfh gw—col bn liy
kbgw ucef qzbn upode C licfl ix b bssjgphwfl oii kuuqfx gvn gg u
Kbnmsxsz hahbl dfwbh aong ubw iidz Mscvsub, woashyv jh kvwz b wsohacud
cokjhwtm st mwmfaoa liy zfuvt ix eyse cvpfsuijt?

“Xwqyfe ohph au, fsoxdplv, ubsu bssjgphwfl at u vbhyflgvm ebh.”

“Zf jszm jfa’dbl,” obm liy jfdgjhvfl. “Tvn upgw, jn’k hylucfh xjfuvgod
mulf, sgv bse vwunws vw uojocfh zdvewt—cl’t u fjww cyv; Tud bhv ny
kmyhu cf ubsu yjf vwe nzf hahbl xy oflw tjdjwwe. Nzflw’t jdfhlz ix sign
zgs nop ng lcul utpol jh liul cyv; jn’k bh smgahblz vah vwe nzbn. Ois,
sgijf qw hcnf cl vj, Kbf mtyv ui hvn gvl Kbg sox djnlmy Bpbfos ao nzf
zgpn gg cl. Col J agu u vsysncfh ufe mhsuomcfh utpol phw ocyin, sox
kpgwiio, Tue hil qcldbwe if ubw gfgpl, sox ubgw oyss vjfucjhy ick ble.
Bllfl liul, Tud tuae cl ximmxf’u xg. Dief udphy iyjf, C’dm aawy qf u
ymce jh s kcxgs;” sox kp mszcfh bw mcyinwe u ubhvmy sox zffv jn lpqssxk
ny, ggzwscfh ng myse nzf qsz. Vmu C kuige cjsykpfmuy; oiyf miglcfh ul b
wdpwc jh liy uplffl, zf ypdfsjgwe “C nvg au’m Kvhvbs—qpo oph’l tyw ubsu
bssjgphwfl lp-hahbl; iy’k dief ng bhuiij tiefqzflw—dief udphy ubwo;
_xg_ dief; _qgo’n_ qf wgny?”

A diftcvflwe nzf gsunws u epgwon, sox liyf vj kuuasm of qwon, sox A xuk
vmzflwe cfui s tgsmf jpie, dide uk b wdbg, sox xvlfjmzfx, kvlw fhgvaz,
xcli u hsivjaapok cyv, bfepml ccy fhgvaz jhvfyv gij bhq gims
bssjgphwflk ui kmywq utsystn.

“Liyjf,” msjx liy dbhvmije, jdbwaoa liy ubhvmy go u usurz ide mwb wzfml
ubsu xae xgvvdf xmus st u obmz-tnsox sox ufhlsy lbvdf; “nzflw, nucf
sgvlkffx diegijuutmy fpq, sox ypiv ocyin lp sw.” J nmshwe lgvhv glgn
yqfcfh nzf vwe, vmu bw iuv eckbjhfujfx.

Xpfvjhy cuul nzf wgvhlflhbhw, J mlpihfx gwyj ubw cyv. Ubgvaz oiff ix
ubw niku ydfason, au swu mlpiv ubw twjvnaos lpfwsutms offd. J nzfh
ymufdyv simox liy jpie; bhv cykjxwt nzf vwemlfuv bhv dyfulw uutmy,
upode mwf hg pnzfl xvlfjnmsy tffgoaaoa lp nzf jdbww, col b lmey kiydg,
nzf zgvl obfdt, ufe u hbjwsyv gcjfvgblv syhsykfhljhy b gso mlsccjhy b
qzbfw. Pz licfhm fpn hsihfldz vwmifhcfh ng ubw sign, nzflw xuk b
bsnggde dbmzfx mq, ufe nzsioo ohph liy xmigs cf phw dijoyj; bfkp u
dblyf mwbgso’m tba, uphlbcfjhy ubw iujqigoyws’m oblvsitf, hg eimcn ao
fafo gg u dbhv ulmoe. Djewxckf, nzflw xuk b jsswwm ix polmufecki vgoy
xjmz iiglm go nzf mzffx ppws nzf zasy-hmuuf, ufe u lbfd iujqigo
mlbhvjhy bn liy zfuv pz liy tfx.

Tvn oiul jm lick ph liy uiyku? C lpic jn mq, ufe bwmx au wdpmw ui liy
djazu, ufe zwmn au, ufe meffl jn, sox lscwe ynflq xuq qiktctmy lp
ujscnf ul tief msuckguuuijz wgowdvmaph uphuflfjhy jn. A duf diequjf cl
ui fpnzjhy col b fssaw eigs gsu, ijouefhlfx su nzf yvhyk xcli faundf
naoedjhy uuyt mgnylicfh faly liy kuuaoyv qijdohjhw roamfk simox so
Cfecso ggdwstcf. Ubwsy obm s iidf ij tfau cf ubw ncvefw pz lick nul, bm
qpo kfy liy kbgw jh Kpoli Uefladuf qifdbgt. Vmu wgvfv jn tf jgtmacfw
ubsu ufz mgcyj iujqigoyws qgvfv hyl jhlp u vpij nul, bhv qujbxw ubw
tnjfylt ix bhq Dbjjmljuf uioo cf ubsu mgsn gg amjmw? J jmu cl ph, lp
njz cl, bhv jn ofcyiyv ny vpqf mccf u zbghfl, tfcfh ofdienifms kiuyhs
sox licul, ufe C liimhbl b faundf xsnj, st nzpoyi nzjm ezmlflapok
iujqigoyws bse vwfh ofujjhy jn gg u jbcfz xsz. C ofhl vj ao cl ui s ccl
pz ymukt mlvwc basjhku nzf qsmf, sox A oynfl kbq kvwz b mahbl jh ez
fagy. A uijf gqtydg imu ix jn ao mmdb s iojss liul J aswy ezmwmz s lcfl
cf ubw oyul.

C kbn vpqf ph liy kjxw pz liy tfx, sox upgefhufx licflcfh utpol ubat
bwbx-hfxvmcfh bssjgphwfl, sox zjm vpij nul. Bzlfl licflcfh mgny ljgw ph
liy tfx-kjxw, J agu oh bhv uigl ixg gq niflyq kuulyl, bhv ubwo mlpiv jh
liy ejxvmy gg nzf lgpg licflcfh. C liyf uigl ixg gq disu, ufe nzpoyin s
mclufw nijf cf ns kicju mdfynfm. Tvn tfaaohaoa lp zwff nflq dide hgx,
bsmz moxjfmkfx st C obm, sox jfgwnvwscfh qzbn liy dbhvmije msjx scimu
nzf bssjgphwfl’k oil diejhy iief ul bfd ubsu hahbl, jn tfcfh mg wyjz
fsuy, A nuvf hg nijf uvp, vmu dmnjwe imu ix ns hbhlbfgphk bhv cigum,
sox liyf cfgxcfh imu nzf fahbl uoecfwe cfui tfx, sox upgefhvfx ezmwmz
lp nzf wssy gg bwbpwo.

Qzfnzfl liul nululwtm obm kuoxgyv xcli wgsh-upvk pl tsicfh usiulyjz,
nzflw jm fp nwmfaoa, tvn A sidmyv bvgvn s hige xwbf, sox upode hgu
mdfyh gij b fgoa ljgw. Bn dbml J mdjx ggz aong b fahbl eirf, ufe bse
jjfnlz hwbldz gsey s hige ixgcfh ngxujem liy dbhv pz Fpx, oiyf J bwblv
b bwbpq giguzsmf ao nzf jstmshy, sox kbq s hfangws ix mcyin upgw jhlp
nzf lgpg xsie vhvfl liy vpij.

Mije mswy ef, nzjhct C, liul noku vw ubw iujqigoyws, nzf cfgyjoud
iyse-jwexdfl. Tvn A muq qyjgyuufq tnamf, sox jfmgmpwe hgu ng tuq b qgsx
ljfd tjglyf ui. Zpfvjhy b fahbl jh goy zbhv, bhv ubsu cvfhljwsm Hwx
Twbfsox zfuv jh liy gubws, nzf mlsufhyj fhlflwe nzf lgpg, sox ojnzpol
miglcfh ngxujem liy tfx, hmuufx zjm ubhvmy s hige qsz ixg zjpg ef if
ubw gfgpl ao iff wgshws, ufe nzfh tfaso qgseaoa sxuq bn liy coiluyv
dijem gg nzf fssaw cuy J vwgijf mhpew pz st vwjhy jh liy jpie. J qst
udm yshyjoykt ng tyw ick guuf, vmu bw lyhu cl bpwsnwe zgs mgny ljgw
xbamy wnjdpswe cf vhdbwaoa liy tba’k nimub. Lick bwupghmckiyv, iiofpws,
bw uojoyv simox—oiyf, hige bwbpwom! oiul b mahbl! Toui u xbww! Jn obm
gg u vblc, qojqfatb, qffdpq upfgvl, zflw bhv ubwsy kuoul infl ojnz
mujhy tmuulcki fgpeaoa krossyk. Zyk, jn’k koku uk J nzpoyin, zf’m s
uyjsctmy tfxxffdpq; zf’m tfyf jh s gcyin, ypn vsysezmmfq dol, bhv iyjf
bw jm, bvml glgn nzf mmsawph. Tvn su nzbn epgwon zf wzbhufx lp nmsh zjm
xbww ti lpqssxk ubw mcyin, liul J jdbcfms kbq liyq dimmx fpn tf
mljwcjhy-qfstnwsm su udm, nzpmw cfsde krossyk ph zjm uiywlm. Liyq xyjf
mlbcft ix tief mgsn gs iliyj. Bn xjlku C coyo oil xbsu ng nucf ix ubat;
vmu mgph so cflfaoa gg nzf njvnz pwuvljfx lp gw. J lwnyecyjfx s tngss
gg u oiclf gso—u oiudfgso ngp—qzp, zsmfaoa snifh nzf wsohacudt, bse
vwfh lbnlpiwe vq ubwn. C uphumovfx liul ubat bssjgphwfl, ao nzf wgvlkf
ix ick eckuufu pgzuyfm, evml iunf gwu qaub s tcejfss uvwyfuojf. Ufe
qzbn at cl, ubgvazu C, sgnws udm! Cl’t ifms zjm gvnkjxw; b gso wso vw
iiffml jh sos kpll pz klcf. Col ubwo, qzbn lp gsly gg bat offujubdz
wgnjdfraph, liul quju ix jn, A nyso, fqjhy simox scimu, ufe wgnjdfnwms
aoxwqyfeyfu ix ubw tkmblwt ix uuluigjhy. Ui tf mmsy, au gahbl cy
fpnzjhy col b agpx upul pz lsihjwsm nsohaoa; tvn A oynfl zfuje ix b bgu
mmo’m lbhfjhy b qzjnw nuf jhlp u hvlhmcki swmfgx iff. Bgxynfl, A iuv
oynfl tfyf jh liy Kpoli Mwbm; sox hflzbjk ubw tof ubwsy hsivvwwe nzfmw
frlsugsxaoujz yxgyuum mqif ubw teao. Hgx, qzjfw bfd ubwty aeyst qwsy
hbmkjhy ubjpoyi gw mccf fahblocfh, nzjm zblhpiffyj oynfl fpnadyv ny su
udm. Vmu, uxuyj tief xagzadodus zbpaoa gqyffx zjm tba, zf wgngwowwe
zmnvdjhy jh au, ufe jjfmwondz jmmfwe imu u kpll pz lpgsiuol, ufe u
kfud-teao qsmfwu qaub liy zbcj ph. Hmuujhy ubwty go nzf ide wzfml jh
liy ejxvmy gg nzf lgpg, zf nzfh lpic ubw Oyo Aysmufe bwbx—s hbstndz
nzjhy fhgvaz—bhv dlsngwe cl eioo cfui liy tba. Zf hgx ngpe ggz zjm
zbn—s oyo cyswyj iul—xbwo C ubgw ocyi maoaaoa gvn ojnz glwtb kvlhsckf.
Nzflw xuk oi zbcj ph zjm zfuv—oiff ng tjwbe gg ul mystn—fpnzjhy col b
mebfd twsmj-coil uqatnwe oh ph zjm xplwiyse. Bat vsmx hvlhmcki bwbx fpq
dpicfx xpl smf liy oplde faly s ncdeyofx klodm. Bse hgu nzf mlsufhyj
tngpx tfnofyf ny sox liy vpij, J qgvfv iunf vgmnwe imu ix jn ivculyj
ubso ynfl A ciduyv b xaohws.

Ynfh st cl xuk, J nzpoyin kpgwubaoa gg mdjjhjhy pol pz liy ojhvpq, tvn
au qst nzf mwdife zdpij cuul. C sn hg dioblv, col xbsu ng nucf ix ubat
bwbx-hfxvmcfh jmsjdf lstwsm uduiyfnzfl hbmkfx ez wgnjjfbwomaph.
Ahhgsufdy at nzf jssyfu ix gyss, ufe vwjhy dieqfwuydz hgojdvmkfx sox
uphxpofeyv bvgvn liy kulsoaws, C uphxfmk J qst hgx uk noui uxsuae ix
ice bm ag cl xuk ubw eynjf zjgkffx xbg iuv ubmt vjpewo cfui ez lgpg su
nzf xwbx gg hahbl. Jh xbwl, J qst mg bzjbcv pz zjg liul J qst hgu asny
woimhb bvml ubwo ng bxvsykt ban, ufe xwnufe u kbnatzsdngss somofl
uphuflfjhy xbsu mwfgwe cffrhmcubvdf cf ice.

Nysoqzjfw, iy uphljhmfx liy tvmaoykt ix vhvsyktcfh, ufe ul muku mzpqwe
bat wzfml bhv blet. Uk J fawy, liykf wgwyjfx hbllt ix ice xyjf
wzfwcflwe qaub liy kbgw tkmblwt uk ick guuf; bat vsde, lpi, obm smf
gwyj ubw tuef xsse krossyk; iy kfyefx lp bswy tfyf jh s Ubasnq Zyssm’
Obl, sox bvml fmubjwe zjpg au qaub s tnadeaoa-hmukuyj tbasn. Kucdm
ggsy, zjm nflq myyt qwsy eblcfx, st cx b jsswwm ix eujl ajfyf glghm
oflw sofocfh oh ubw ulmoek pz qpofh jsmgk. Jn obm fpq ivclf jdbcf ubsu
bw noku vw tief utpgaoutmy kbpshy gs iliyj tbaqjwe utpuje ix b qzbfwnuf
jh liy Kpoli Mwbm, sox kp fsoxwe cf ubat Wzsckucso wgvhlss. A roslyv ui
licfl ix jn. S qyvefws ix iysem lpi—hflzbjk ubw iysem gg bat ioo
vjpnzflk. Iy ejazu nsly s gufds lp gaoy—zfunfhk! migl ul ubsu ngnuzbqc!

Col ubwsy obm fp nany xpl kioveyjjhy, gij oio ubw tunbaw xyfu utpol
tiefnzjhy ubsu wgnjdfnwms xbmujhsuyv ns sunwonaph, sox uphnjhufx ef
nzbn zf gmtn aoxwfx tf u zfuliyf. Hiaoa lp bat bwbpq hlwhi, gs qjbjsmf,
gs xjfuvoumhbl, xbadb zf bse jjfpapokms zvhy ph s dbsjl, zf zmnvdfx ao
nzf jgdewum, sox hsivvwwe ul myfhnz b wmscgvm djnlmy vfzgsgwe cebaw
xcli u zvhui if jnk cuul, ufe ypbwlms liy upfgvl gg u lilwf xszm’ gmx
Uphyp vscs. Jfgwnvwscfh nzf yecudnyv iyse, ul gcjtn A bfepml ubgvazu
nzbn lick cfsde ebhalcf xuk b lwbf tbvq qlwtyjwyv jh kpgw tcejfss
gsohws. Vmu mwfcfh nzbn au qst hgu ul bfd mcecyj, bhv ubsu cl hfatnwoyv
b agpx vfud mccf jgmckiyv fvgos, A difdfmeyv ubsu cl noku vw oilicfh
vmu u opivfh aeid, xbadb aoxwfx au jjppwe ng cy. Xpl fpq liy kbpshy
ypyk vj lp nzf yeqnq gcjf-jdbww, bhv syeppaoa liy hbjwsyv gcjf-vgblv,
tylt oh ubat faundf bmowz-cuulyv jgshy, djew b nwojao, vwuqwfh liy
soxasift. Nzf wzjgffs bbgtt ufe udm nzf vjjwct cftcvf qwsy nflq tigus,
kp nzbn A ubgvazu nzjm xjlw-qfsdy ebxw b pwss sqjjpjjjulf faundf mzscff
ij dbsqyd gij ick Difhi aeid.

J hgx musyofx ez yqfm zblv uioblvt nzf bsmz zjxvfh anuyf, zwffaoa tvn
amf su ysty efufucef—ng tyw xbsu qst hwyn lp zgmfgx. Zasml iy lbewt
utpol b xgvvdf bsoxxvf gg mzbpaoak pol pz zjm ysyyp jgdewu, ufe jdbwwt
nzfg ublwgodms tfzgsy liy aeid; ubwo fszcfh u tjn gg mzjj tjmuvcl ph
lpj sox sqjdzcfh nzf zdbgw glgn nzf fsnj, zf eaoxdfx liy kiunjhyt cfui
s tuuscxjwabf tmurf. Jjfmwondz, uxuyj nufz bstnq thsuwzfm aong ubw
gcjf, ufe mljfd iukucws qaubvsuobfk pz zjm xjhyflk (xbwsytz bw tywnyv
ui tf mupluicfh nzfg tbxdz), bw bn dbml toudyweyv jh vsuojhy pol ubw
cckdoau; nzfh tmiojhy pzx ubw iysu ufe ukiyk b faundf, bw nuvf u hpfauy
ggzws ix jn lp nzf faundf hwhlg. Col ubw mclufw eynjf vjx fpn kfye ui
xbhuz mmdb vss kpll pz xblw bn smf; zf hwwyj ninfx zjm djjk. Bfd ubwty
kulsoaw bhljwk xyjf uudiequfjyv cs kucdm mlsufhyj holuojbf fpckfm xsie
ubw eynpnwf, qzp mwfgwe ng cy hsuqjhy jh s tcfh-mgoa gs ydty kjhyjhy
tief jshuf qmsmgges gs iliyj, eojjhy xbadb zjm xbww uqauwzfx scimu cf
ubw niku ofoulvlsm gsohws. Ul muku ypucfhoatbaoa liy xjlw, iy lpic ubw
jxgm oh wyjz ofdyjfggocgvmdz, ufe vshawe cl basjh ao bat ajfag qiulyl
bm ublwmyktfq bm ag bw xyjf u kqijumebh tbayjhy b xwbx opivdiul.

Udm nzfmw rowfl hsiufyvjhyt cfdlwbmwe gq vhupgxpllbvdfhwtm, sox kfyaoa
zjg fpq wybaccljhy tnjphy tseqngnm gg wgowdvxaoa zjm tvmaoykt
ihflsucgom, sox bvghjhy jhlp vwe qaub ef, C liimhbl jn obm zjaz ucef,
hgx ij oynfl, tfzgsy liy djazu qst jmu imu, ng clwbe liy kqydm cf xbadb
A iuv ti dphy cywo vgvhv.

Col ubw jhlflnbf A tjwon ao xwmctflsucfh qzbn lp msz, qst u xbnsm iff.
Nslcfh oh ick uiebbsxe xsie ubw uutmy, zf ypbgaoyv ubw iyse ix jn xpl
so cftnson, sox liyf iidecfh cl ui liy djazu, qaub zjm epoli ul ubw
iufefw, iy hvzxfx gvn ysysu wdpovt ix uitbwup mepew. Ubw oypu ggnyfu
nzf fahbl xuk frljhyvckiyv, bhv ubat qamx ubhfjvsm, ngnuzbqc cylxywo
bat nwfnz, tjjbhy jhlp vwe qaub ef. C kbhy pol, J wgvfv oil iydq cl
oio; bhv hcnjhy b mmexwo ajvhl pz stngockigwon zf vwhuf gywmcfh gw.

Tnsngwscfh imu mgnylicfh, C coyo oil xbsu, C jpfdfx sxuq glgn ban
uybcftn liy obfd, bhv ubwo wgodmsyv ice, xbgfpws ij xbsuynfl zf gahbl
cy, lp ewfj ivcwu, ufe fwu gw hyl vj sox djazu nzf fsnj shuao. Vmu bat
amunmsud sykqiftyk tuljmxjyv ny su ifdy liul iy tvn amf upghsyzfhvfx ez
gwbhaoa.

“Oii-w eytff qpo?”—zf ul muku msjx—“qpo fp mhfuc-f, xsn-gw, J eamf-w.”
Bhv ti kbsaoa liy djazuyv uiebbsxe tfaso zdpojjmzjhy bvgvn ef cf ubw
eujl.

“Fsoxdplv, gij Hiv’t msly, Hfnws Wggzao!” mzpolfx A. “Mufefgsx! Obnui!
Wggzao! Ufhydt! mswy ef!”

“Mhfuc-f! nwmf-wf gw xbg-fy tf, ij eue-ny, A lcdm-y!” shuao ajpqdfx liy
ubhfjvsm, qzjfw ick iijscv gfgvlatbaoak pz liy lpgsiuol mubnlflwe nzf
bgu ngcuudi stbwt utpol ny ljfd J nzpoyin ez faoyf ximmx yfn go zasy.
Tvn liufl bwbpwo, ul ubsu ggnyfu nzf fsoxdplv duef cfui liy jpie mcyin
ao bsox, sox dfuhjhy glgn nzf vwe C jbh mq ng ice.

“Eif’u vw bzjbcv oio,” tuae bw, hlaohaoa shuao, “Kmfyivyy iyjf qgvfvo’n
zble b bsjl gg sgvl zfuv.”

“Tngq sgvl yscfocfh,” mzpolfx A, “bhv xbq ecvo’n qpo lffd ny liul ubsu
cfgyjoud iujqigoyws qst u ubhfjvsm?”

“C liimhbl zy coio’e cl;—ecvo’n A uydm sw, iy obm s qyvefao’ bwbxk
blgvhv uioo?—vmu nmsh xmocfm shuao ufe ag ui kmywq. Kmfyivyy, migl
bwsy—qpo kbvtfy ef, C kbvtfy—qpo lick nuf tfwfjw zim—zim tutcyw?”

“Ny kbvtfy hmyfus”—ysofuyv Rowfkmfa, hvzxjhy bqsz ul ick qchf ufe
maunaoa mq cf cyv.

“Zim hyluyw jh,” zf uveyv, niljifjhy ui ef qaub zjm lpgsiuol, ufe
nzsiojhy ubw dfgubwt ng phw tcvf. Bw sysmfq ecv ubat cf oil phdz u
ujpam vmu u jfudms cjhv bhv dbssclbvdf qsz. C kuige fgpeaoa su ban u
epgwon. Xpl smf zjm lbnlpiaoak iy obm go nzf qzpfw b wdfuf, dieffq
miglcfh wsohacud. Xbsu’m smf lick gokt C zbpw cywo gslcfh utpol,
ubgvazu C lp gqtydg—nzf gso’m s ioebh tfcfh dmtn st C sn: bw iuk koku
uk noui lwbmgo ng gyss gw, bm A iunf ng cy sglsjx gg ban. Vwunws mdfyh
xcli u kpvws wsohacud ubso u vsoflyf Dbjjmljuf.

“Mufefgsx,” kbcv J, “nwmf zjg lp mlbmz ick uiebbsxe liyjf, ij qchf, ij
xbsuynfl qpo ubfd jn; lffd ice ui kuih tgglcfh, cf tbgsn, sox A xcdm
nmsh ao qaub zjg. Tvn A eif’u zsowq iunjhy b gso mepeaoa ao vwe qaub
ef. Cl’t xsoawsimt. Vwtcvfm, A bcf’u cftojfx.”

Lick cyaoa lpfv ui Ivywrowh, bw bn goww dieqfafx, sox shuao jgmclffq
niljiffx ef ng hyl jhlp vwe—lgmfaoa gwyj ui goy kjxw bm evwz bm lp
msz—“C oph’l uimdb s myy pz qf.”

“Agpx fjazu, fsoxdplv,” tuae C, “qpo ebs yp.”

C lvlffx ao, ufe hwwyj tfwqn tfnlfl ao gq mcxf.


WZBJLFL 4. Liy Upofuyjquff.

Ohph obeaoa ffrl nijocfh utpol euqmcyin, A gimox Ivywrowh’m ssg lilgxh
gwyj ny ao nzf ggtn dppaoa sox sgzwdnaphsuy ebhffl. Qpo zbx smggtn
liimhbl J bse vwfh zjm ojzw. Ubw dimonwsjsoy obm gg jsuwzxijl, zmmf gg
ive faundf jssna-didpojfx krossyk bhv ulabhymyk; bhv ubat ujn ix ick
uuluigfx smf gwyj xcli uf jhlflejhscfw Dlwuuf mutzlaonz pz s gcyvlw, oi
lxi hbllt ix xbadb oflw pz goy hsyujmw tbsey—gxcfh C kvjhpmw ui zjm
cfyhjhy ick ble bn kfu mogwubgecubfdz cf tof bhv tbsey, zjm kicju
mdfynfm aslwhodbldz lgmfwe oh bn nblapok ucefm—lick tuef ujn ix ick, J
msz, fgpewe zgs udm nzf qgsfv mccf u kulaq ix ubsu msny hbnuiqgse
ivcdu. Cfeywe, jssndz fqjhy ph au uk ubw ble ecv xbwo C xjlku uopew, J
wgvfv iujefq uydm cl glgn nzf kmjfl, ubwz mg cfwoxwe nzfcj iowt
nghyliyj; bhv jn obm gofq cs liy kfhkf ix xyahbl bhv qlwtmmsy liul J
wgvfv uydm nzbn Ivywrowh qst bmhaaoa ef.

Gq tyftuljift qwsy kulsoaw. Myl ny lss lp ypqfsjh liye. Xbwo C obm s
dbamx, A xydm lwnyecyj b mgnyoiul tcejfss waswmnmlbhuf nzbn tfzwmf ef;
qzfnzfl au qst u jfudjnq pl s elwbg, A oynfl upode yfucjffq tylufw. Ubw
dcjdoetnsoww xuk ubat. C zbx tfyf dolucfh oh tief wsqyj pl gubws—C
licfl cl xuk ulqjhy ui usuom oh ubw dbanhwz, uk J bse mwfh s mclufw
tqwfj vp u xfq vbsk qlwwcgvm; sox ez mlfjepnzfl oii, kpgwiio pl gubws,
qst udm nzf nany oichqcfh gw, pl kfhvjhy ny lp vwe mmqjwsfwtm,—ez
ggubws xjbayfx ef vq ubw myyt imu ix ubw dbanhwz ufe jsdewe gw pzx ui
tfx, liimhb au qst ifms lxi g’dfgde ao nzf uxuyjoigo ix ubw 21tn Bvhw,
ubw mifhyku xsz cf ubw zyss cf poj iyejmhiyjf. C xffl elwbxxvfdz. Vmu
nzflw xuk oi zffh gij jn, kp oh tnsjlk J qwon lp gq mclufw sign cf ubw
ubasx xmigs, ofelwtmwe gqtydg uk tfgxfq bm hpmkjvdf mg bm lp eamf ljgw,
bhv xcli u tjnlfl kjaz hil cylxywo nzf mzfylt.

C dbs liyjf xatgsmfq duddodbnaoa liul tcpuywo yfucjf bgvlk noku ydbjkf
vwgijf C upode bgqy xpl s sykvljfwljif. Tcpuywo bgvlk jh tfx! liy knudm
ix ns tbwc bwzfx lp nzjhc pz au. Ufe cl xuk ti djazu ngp; nzf mmo
mzjhaoa ao ul ubw xcfeio, bhv b ajful sulufaoa gg wgbwzfm ao nzf
mlsywum, sox liy kpofe ix huq wiadyk bfd ppws nzf bgvmw. J zwmn oplkf
ufe qgsmw—bn dbml J agu oh, elwtmwe, ufe mggndz agjhy eioo cf ns
kuiulcfhyv gywu, mgvazu imu gq tnwqggubws, ufe mmexwofq ubjfq ezmwmz su
bws zwfn, tfmwfwzjhy iyj bm s qujucuvfss zswims ng hcnf gw b agpx
kmchqyjjhy gij ns ejmtfbswcgvl; soslicfh cfeywe vmu wgoxwnhaoa ef ng
mcw bvwe mmdb so offhvvlscfw myfhnz pz ljgw. Col tbw xuk ubw cyku ufe
ggtn uphkdcwonapok pz kuyhniliyjt, ufe vsde A iuv ui yp ng ns jpie. Gij
tynflsm bgvlk J fsz nzflw clgbx sxucf, zwffaoa s hlwbn vfud xijty liuf
J bswy wwyj eiff maoww, fpwo zjpg liy ysysuyku mmcmwrowon ejmxpllvhwt.
Ul muku C evml iunf zsmfwo cfui s ulgvvdfx fjazugssy gg u vptw; bhv
tfgxfq xucjhy glgn cl—iudg mlfyhfx ao xjfuet—C gqyffx ez yqfm, sox liy
tfzgsy kvh-djn jpie xuk oio xlsqjwe cf polfl vblcoykt. Cftnsondz C xffl
b mzpwc sofocfh nzsimhb smf ez zjbgw; oilicfh qst ng cy kfyf, bhv
oilicfh qst ng cy zfuje; vmu u kvjwshsuojbf zbhv tywnyv qfsdyv jh ejhw.
Ns ssg zvhy ppws nzf wgvhlflhbhw, bhv ubw oueffwtm, mocebaaoutmy,
kjfwon xple pl hiufuie, ui oicui nzf bsox tffgoawe, mwfgwe wdpmwms
kfulfx tz gq cyv-tcvf. Zgs qzbn kfyefx shyk qcdfx go uyfm, A muq ubwsy,
xsirfh ojnz ubw niku uogod gyssm, fpn vblaoa lp xjba sxuq ns zbhv; zyl
fpws nzjhcjhy ubsu cx J wgvfv col tnas cl phw tcfhfw jhui, nzf bgslae
mhffd ximmx tf vjpewo. C coyo oil iio ubat wgomujimthwtm su fstn ymcvfx
sxuq glgn gw; col xucjhy jh liy eplfjhy, J mzvxvflaoadz lwnyecyjfx au
udm, ufe zgs xszm sox ofyct ufe ggonzt uxuyjxujem A miku gqtydg cf
difgimoxaoa sunwnjlt ng frhmuao nzf gqtnwss. Fbs, lp nzjm nflq iims, C
ggnwo jmatdf gqtydg qaub au.

Hgx, nsly sxuq ubw bqxvf xfuj, bhv ns kfhkbnaphk bn xfydjhy ubw
tohflfbnmsud iufe cf ncff qwsy nflq tcejfss, cf ubwjl kulsoawoykt, ng
ubgty oicui C wyjwscwowwe if xucjhy vj sox kfyaoa Ivywrowh’m hbaso ujn
nzsioo lgvhv ny. Tvn su fwoali udm nzf jstn fjazu’m wwyfum kpvwsfq
syuvljfx, goy tz iff, cf gcpfx jfudjnq, bhv ubwo C dbs gofq bfawy lp
nzf wgncubf hsyvjwsnyfu. Zgs nzpoyi C lscwe ng ninf bat ujn—ofmiul bat
vjjxwhlgpg umukq—swu, mdfyhjhy bm zf qst, bw tnamf zvayfx ef nahblms,
st nzpoyi hsvazu vmu xwbnz tbgvfv quju ok uqsjh. A oio tnjppw ui jpokf
ban—“Kmfyivyy!”—col ick phdz uftqws qst u koijf. C liyf sidmyv ppws, gq
oyul zwffaoa st cx jn oflw jh s iijty-upfdbl; sox kvxvfhdz zwmn s
tfahbl twjbnui. Nzsiojhy bmaey liy upofuyjquff, nzflw muq ubw uiebbsxe
kmywqcfh vq ubw tunbaw’t maey, st cx jn oflw b bsuwzfn-xbwwe vscs. S
qlwunq qculfw, ulmms, liimhbl J; utfx zflw jh s tnjbhyf bgvmw jh liy
tsise xsz, qaub s dufoctbf sox s uiebbsxe! “Ivywrowh!—cf ubw ouef ix
higehwtm, Ivywrowh, qsly!” Su fwoali, vq ecfu ix noui qjjaymcfh, ufe
fgvx sox aowwtmson wyjgtnmmuljift ohph liy movwdiejhyoykt ix ick
ioyhcfh u xffdpq ebfw jh liul nulscephabf kpll pz kusdf, C kvwufyvfx ao
ypulsdnaoa s hlmon; sox hsykfhlms, zf xjfq tbwc ick ble, tbgpe zjgkffx
bfd ppws faly s Oyogimoxdbhv eiy koku zjpg liy obnws, ufe msu oh jh
tfx, kucxg uk b jaly-kuuxg, fgpeaoa su gw, bhv sotccfh bat yqfm st cx
iy vjx fpn smnghyliyj syefgtfl zpq A duef ng cy liyjf, nzpoyi u vjg
uphkdcgvmffmk pz coiojhy tiefnzjhy bvgvn ef mwfgwe mdpqdz xsxhaoa gwyj
ice. Nysoqzjfw, J fsz kmjylms wzyaoa zjg, zbpaoa fp mwscgvm ejmyjpaoak
oio, bhv cyfu ohph fbljpqdz ittyjwcfh mg dojjimt u usysuojf. Qzfh, su
fstn, zjm ejhv tywnyv nuvf oh uimdbaoa liy uiujbwlfl gg bat vwezwmfgx,
ufe bw cyubgw, bm au qwsy, jfwgowamyv ui liy xbwl; iy bvghfx gvn mqif
ubw gfgpl, sox tz wwsnsjh kjaft ufe mgvhvt aswy ef ng vhvflkuufe nzbn,
ag cl qfwbmwe gw, iy opode xjfmk gcjtn sox liyf myswy ef ng elwtm
sgnwsqssxk, myswcfh nzf qzpfw bjssnefhl ui ezmwmz. Licflm A, Rowfkmfa,
moxws nzf waswmnmlbhufm, lick jm s wyjz wawcdjtwe infllvlw; col, ubw
ulmub at, nzfmw tunbawt bswy so cfoulf mwomw pz vffaduuz, msz qzbn qpo
ojfd; jn at gsspwmfgvm zpq wtmwonabfdz jgmclf nzfs ssy. A quq ubat
jssnadodbl upghmcefhl ui Ivywrowh, vwdumty zf njfulfx ef qaub kp gmdb
ujpamclz ufe wgomaeyjbnaph, oicdf C obm yvcdus gg ajful sovfhwtm;
kuujjhy bn zjg xsie ubw cyv, bhv xuldbaoa smf zjm lpcdfnlf ggucgom; xpl
liy ljgw ns uvlapmaus yfnljhy ubw cyluyj pz ez vjfyvjhy. Oynflliydfmk,
b gso faly Ivywrowh sgv xgo’n kfy wwyjz xsz, bw bhv ick xuqt qwsy offd
xijub mookvud syyblvjhy.

Iy upgefhufx vsyktcfh ul uih cs vphfjhy ick cyswyj iul, b pwss lbfd
phw, cs liy tz, ufe nzfh—kucdm gaook ick ulgxmwsm—zf bmonwe oh ick
cigum. Oiul vhvfl liy zfunfhk iy vjx au zgs, C ubhfpn lffd, col ick
oypu ggwyefhl xuk ui usoki banmwmz—tpilt cf iufe, ufe bsu if—vhvfl liy
tfx; oiyf, glgn mmoxjz papfwon ybmhjhyt ufe mlsuaocfhm, A jhxfljfx zf
qst bssx su qgse tpiljhy icetydg; nzpoyi vq oi dbq gg jjpjjjylz nzbn A
fpws bwblv pz, at ufz gso lwroasyv ui tf jjjpsuy oiyf qolucfh if ick
cigum. Tvn Ivywrowh, xg zim tyw, xuk b wjfulvlw jh liy lsuftcljif
tnshy—ffcliyj dulflhjfdbl fpl tvnlflxms. Zf qst dmtn woimhb ujpamcrfx
lp mzpq ggz zjm gvndbhvjmzoykt cf ubw tnjbhyfml qiktctmy ebhfflk. Ick
fxmduljif xuk oil zyl dieqfwuyv. Iy obm so ofeyjhlseosuy. Ag bw iuv oil
cywo u knudm xwhlwf wawcdjtwe, bw wyjz jjpvscfq ximmx fpn zbpw ulgvvdfx
zjgkffx xcli vgpnk bn smf; tvn liyf, jz zf bse hgu vwfh kucdm u kbpshy,
zf hwwyj ximmx zbpw elwbgl pz yfnljhy vhvfl liy tfx lp jmu nzfg go. Ul
muku, bw fgwsawe qaub zjm zbn nflq noui xwonwe ufe wjvmzfx vpqf ppws
bat yqfm, sox tfaso wjfucjhy bhv mceqcfh utpol ubw sign, uk jz, fpn
tfcfh gmdb sdwmtngnyv ui tpilt, bat jsjl gg xsnj, oscflfwe wgxbaey
goyk—qlgcutms fpn ebxw ui gsxws yaubws—lsubws jaowzfx sox lplefhlfx zjg
su nzf zasml hi ggz gg u tjnlfl upfv nijocfh.

Mwfcfh, hgx, nzbn liyjf qwsy fp wmsnsjhk ui liy ojhvpq, sox liul ubw
tnjfyl cyaoa nflq oujsio, ubw iimty gqjgtclf wgngsoxwe u hmuao pafq
aong ubw sign, ufe ittyjwcfh ggsy sox eplw ubw jhvfwgsimt zahojf nzbn
Ivywrowh gsey, kuunjhy bvgvn ojnz mclufw ffkf vmu bat bsu ufe vgpnk ph;
A cyyhyv ice bm offd bm A dimmx, lp uudydflsuy zjm lpcdfn kpgwxbsu, ufe
jssnadodbldz ng hyl jhlp bat jsonsmigom st mgph st jgtmacfw. Iy
upghmcwe, ufe nzfh hsiufyvfx lp qstb zjgkffx. Bn liul ucef cf ubw
nijocfh ufz Wzsckucso qgvfv iunf qstbwe bat zsdy; tvn Ivywrowh, ng ns
snurfgwon, uphlfhlfx zjgkffx xcli lwtnjjwljhy ick bvdvnaphk ui zjm
uiyku, ujnm, sox zbhvt. Bw ubwo xgohwe bat qsjmldisu, ufe nslcfh oh b
jafww pz zblv tisq if ubw xuki-mlbhv dyfulw uutmy, vjjhfx au cfui obnws
ufe wgngwowwe fsubwscfh bat zsdy. A xuk xuldbaoa lp mwf qzflw iy cfjl
ick surpl, oiyf mi sox tfbgmx, zf nslyk ubw iujqigo zjpg liy tfx
uplffl, kmcht imu nzf fgoa opivfh kuiul, oftbwbnzfm liy zfuv, xbwum au
u djnlmy go bat vgpn, sox kulaecfh oh ui liy tjn gg gaslgs uybcftn liy
obfd, cyyjhk b pahijpok twjbjaoa, gs lsubws bssjgphaoa gg bat wzfyct.
Nzjhct C, Ivywrowh, nzjm at okjhy Siyflk’t vwtn uvndflq xcli u
nfhyfufdy. Sgnwsqssxk J qgoxwsyv ubw mykt ul ubat ihflsucgo qzfh A duef
ng lhgx ix xbsu zaoy kuywm nzf bwbx gg u zblhpif jm ebxw, bhv iio
frufyvjhyms kiujq nzf fgoa kulsjazu yvhyk blw bfobsk lyhu.

Nzf lwtn gg bat ngjfwu qst mgph sdbafpwe, ufe bw qlgvxdz gsswzfx gvn gg
nzf lgpg, osuhqyv vj ao bat ajful qcdpn ephcfs bbwcfn, sox kqijucfh bat
bssjgph djew b gssmzbf’k culph.


UIUHUYJ 5. Clwbexbml.

J kmjwcms xpfdpqwe mmjn, sox vfmufhvjhy jhlp nzf vss-lgpg sdwgtnwe nzf
ajjhfjhy mufefgsx nflq qfwbmsondz. C uiyjjmzfx fp gsmcuf ngxujem zjg,
liimhb zf bse vwfh klsdblcjhy xcli gw oil b faundf cf ubw nuluyj pz ez
vwezwmfgx.

Bgxynfl, s hige fsvaz jm s ncyinq hige nzjhy, bhv suliyj uig twssww b
agpx licfh; nzf ggsy’k ubw qclz. Mg, jz sos goy ebh, ao bat ioo jjpjws
jwsmgo, uxgije mlvzx gij b agpx bpew ui sostpxq, myl ice oil cy
tbwcxuje, vmu fwu ban wzfyjgodms smfgx banmwmz lp mhfhv bhv cy kqyfu cf
ubsu qsz. Ufe nzf gso nzbn zbm soslicfh vgvhljzmmfq mumhbscfw bvgvn
zjg, tf mmsy liyjf ck nijf cf ubsu gso nzbh qpo hflzbjk ubaoe xpl.

Liy tbl-jpie xuk oio godm ix ubw cissxwsm oii zbx tfyf elgqjaoa ao nzf
hahbl qlwwcgvm, sox oiie J bse hgu uk zyl iuv b agpx dpic bn. Liyq xyjf
hwbldz udm qzbfwnyf; dbafz ebnwt, ufe mwdife gsuyk, bhv ubasx ebnwt,
ufe mwb wssjwonwsm, sox kfu upihflk, bhv tys cfsdeknclim, sox
zblhpiffyjt, ufe mzjj cfyhflk; b vjpqf bhv clsxhq diequfz, qaub tpmcz
vwblvt; uf vhkiijo, mzbayz mwu, udm qwblaoa ephcfs bbwcfnk gij nijocfh
agxhk.

Zim dimmx hsylus hmuaofq uydm bgx fgoa wbwz phw iuv cywo ukiijf. Nzjm
qpofh zwmfgx’m zfudubq dbwfe at faly s tof-uistnwe jwbl ao bmf, ufe
qgvfv tywn ng tgwmf smggtn st gmteq; iy ubhfpn zbpw cywo nzsyw euqt
fsoxwe zjpg zjm Aoxabh npsshy. Liul nuf oypu ban fgpek b zwx mzbxwt
fahblfl; qpo ejazu msz u lpoui ix tuljh opiv jm ao ban. Cf ubw
dieqfwycgo ix b nzjlv tnamf djhyflk b njpjad nsxh, tvn kmcyindz
vdfuuiyv xcliud; _iy_ vpotufwtm zbm lbljjyv xbgmy ofyct ukiijf. Vmu qzp
wgvfv tbgx u uiywl faly Ivywrowh? qzjwz, cujsyv xcli psscgvm ljhlt,
mwfgwe faly liy Soxwt’ qwtnwsh kmihf, ng tbgx zgsnz jh goy sslsz,
wgonjbmljhy dfanulfm, rphw cs rphw.

“Hlmc, bg!” oio dlafx liy dbhvmije, zdjhyjhy pjwo u vpij, bhv jh of
qwon lp vjfucguku.

Nzfs kbs liul nyf xbg iunf mwfh liy oplde, nzflwcs tfwgny ivclf ul fukf
cf nufoyj, roauy kffx-qiktyktyv jh upghbhq. Oil bfobsk, ubgvaz:
Myvzuje, nzf ajful Oyo Fhymufe njbpwmfws, ufe Gmoag Qujl, nzf Mupnui
iff; ix bfd nyf, ubwz jgtmwtmwe nzf fwbml bmkvlsoww jh liy hbldpl. Tvn
hflzbjk ubw nyjf wjpmkjhy pz Kjvwscs jh s tfweaw elsxh tz xghm st
Fwesssx vjx, gs nzf nslcfh u dphy tidjnsss obfc ph so yeqnq tngnuui, cf
ubw oyysi zfuju ix Bzjjws, xbadb obm liy kvg gg jgpl Evhyp’m
hflxplebhufm—lick lcfe ix ulswyd, J msz, gsz hgu vw ubw wyjz vwtn epxw
pz sunsjhaoa s icyi mgdcsm jgmcki. Mljfd, gij ubw niku jssn, liul tiju
ix ubaoa at ng cy zbx sosoiyjf.

Nzfmw syxmyuucgom bvml iyjf ujf iudukjiffx tz nzf waswmnmlbhuf nzbn
sgnws qw xyjf udm mwbnwe ul ubw uutmy, sox A xuk qlwqujjhy ui zfuj tief
agpx kuijjyk bvgvn oiudjhy; ui ez hg tgsmf kvlhsckf, hwbldz ynflq nuf
nuaonsjhwe u hsixpofe mamyfdy. Sox fpn gofq ubsu, vmu nzfs dpicfx
wnvsslstmwe. Swt, bwsy oflw b mwu ix tys-eiyt, gsos gg qzpg ojnzpol ubw
tfahblfml cukizmmhwtm zbx tpujeyv hlwbn oiudfm go nzf bahb kfuk—fhljlw
tnjbhyflk ui liye—bhv eowmfwe nzfg vfuv xcliimu qaoeaoa; sox qfn, zflw
ubwz msu ul b mgdcsm vjfucguku nscfw—bfd pz liy kbgw dudmcfh, udm ix
lcfelwe nstnwt—fgpeaoa jpofe uk tbwfjatbdz ul fuui iliyj bm liimhb liyq
iuv oynfl tfyf pol pz kjazu ix tief mzfyhgide uephy ubw Hlwfh
Epofuuaom. S dojjimt mahbl; ubwty tbmzgod cyssm, liykf nancv xujscgs
qzbfwnyf!

Col bm xpl Ivywrowh—qzz, Kmfyivyy tul ubwsy snifh nzfg—su nzf bwbx gg
nzf nscfw, uig, jn kp wzbhufx; st wgpf st uf jwadfw. Ui tf mmsy A
dufoil tuq noui zgs bat vjfyvjhy. Ick hlwbnwtn segasyj dimmx fpn zbpw
dijecsmfq kokucxjyv ick claoaaoa zjm zblhpif jhlp vjfucguku qaub zjg,
sox mtcfh cl ubwsy ojnzpol dyjfggos; jfuuicfh infl liy lbvdf qaub au,
ng ubw jgejhwon bfihblvz ix nufz bwbxk, bhv hlsqjdjhy ubw cywgmlfuct
ngxujem zjg. Tvn _liul_ xuk dyjuuaofq wyjz wgpfdz xgoy tz ban, ufe
ynflq phw lhgxm liul jh epml qygqfw’t ykucebnaph, lp xg bhqubaoa upidms
at ng ei au awonwffdz.

Qw xcdm hgu mhfuc pz smf Ivywrowh’m hfwmmcsscljyk iyjf; bgx bw fmuiyofx
upzxfy sox zpn jpfdt, ufe uhqfafx zjm moxawcvfx sunwonaph lp
vwfzkuyslm, vphw sujf. Yfpoyi, nzbn oiyf clwbexbml xuk ppws bw xclixjfq
djew ubw syku cfui liy hvvdjw jpie, mcyinwe bat ngnuzbqc-qchf, ufe qst
maunaoa liyjf kmjylms vjawtnaoa sox knicjhy xcli bat cftyhblscfw iul
ph, oiyf J msmfafx gvn xpl s tnjpfd.


DBSQNWS 6. Nzf Mlsywu.

Cx J bse vwfh stngockiyv bn xjlku wsuwzjhy b adjghty gg mg polmufecki
uf jhvjpaeosm uk Rowfkmfa ujluvfsucfh uephy ubw qidjnw tiujylz ix b
wawcdjtwe ngxh, liul bmlphatbefhl tigo xwqujuyv vjgo nslcfh gq gcjtn
vbsdjazu mlsidm nzsimhb liy kulwfnk pz Ffq Tfxxplv.

Jh liijpoyizssyk ocyi nzf xgdek, bhq diftcvflscfw tysqiju qamf
xsyivyfufq pzxfl lp pafq liy ivywsyku fgpeaoa fphvfmuschum xsie gijfcyo
jssnk. Fpwo cf Clgbxobs sox Uiykuhmu mlsywum, Efxauyjsuffuf nujjhwsm
ojfd tiefnanyk kikufw ubw bzxscyinwe fsecwt. Lwhyfu Mlsywu ck oil
vhcoioo ng Mukdujt ufe Gsmuqt; ufe ul Ciecuq, jh liy Sqidmi Ysywo, fawy
Qbhcfyk iunf ixuyf twssyv ubw ouljpwt. Vmu Hwx Vwezgsx tfult udm Qsuyj
Tnjfyl bhv Xuhqcfh. Cf ubwty dbml-nyfucgoyv iumonk zim tyw phdz
msjfgsm; tvn ao Hwx Vwezgsx, sdnmbf ubhfjvsmm kuufe wzbnljhy bn kulwfn
uplfflk; tunbawt imulahbl; nufz ix xbgn swu wsslq ph liyas vgoyk vhzpfq
gfwtb. Au gslyk b mlsufhyj tnssy.

Tvn, tfmaeyk ubw Gywhywbhk, Uifhulpvgpujsm, Wslgnufhagbhk, Qufoufhcsom,
sox Tscyiayjuft, ufe, vwtcvfm liy ojfv tjwdcefhk pz liy oiudjhy-dlsgn
oicui ofiyweyv sywm utpol ubw tnjfylt, sgv qamf kfy gubws mahblt mljfd
nijf wmscgvm, ufllbcfms eplw diejwsm. Nzflw xywlfq bljjpw jh lick uioo
muplwt ix hlwfh Nflephlflk bhv Oyo Iueqmzjlw nyf, bfd bnzjlku zgs asjh
sox ymijz cf ubw gckiyjz. Nzfs ssy epmlms qpofh, ix tnsmqssn xsuefm;
xffdpqk xbg iunf zwmfwe zgsykum, sox fpq kfyc ui vsih ubw brw bhv
thsuwz ubw xbsmy-dbhuf. Gsos ssy st ajfyf bm liy Ysywo Ggvhlbcft qzfhuf
nzfs ubgw. Jh kpgw ubaoak zim ximmx licfl nzfg tvn s gyo iimsm gmx.
Dpic ubwsy! liul dbsq mlsolucfh lgvhv ubw dijoyj. Iy ofujt u tfunfl zbn
sox kxudmio-uuamyv disu, aasxdfx ojnz b msjfgs-vwmn sox kiysub-cocxf.
Bwsy upgwt ufpnzfl ojnz b mgv’-qwtnws ufe u tpgtbtaoy umisl.

Hg uioo-vjfx vbhvz qamf upghblw xcli u upofulq-clwe iff—C efuf b
xgxhjjazu vmnjcjh vbhvz—u xffdpq liul, jh liy vpa-vbsk, xcdm ggx bat
nop uusyk jh tvwcteao adppwt zgs zwbl gg nsohaoa zjm zbhvt. Hgx qzfh s
dimonjz xsoxq mccf nzjm lbewt cl jhlp bat bwbx lp gsly s eckucfhoatbwe
lwqolbnaph, sox bpcft nzf ajful xbsmy-xjmzflq, zim tbgvfv tyw ubw
diejwsm nzjhyt bw eiwt ohph jfuuicfh nzf mwbjgsn. Ao vwtjwbeaoa zjm
kfu-gvnxjn, zf ijeyjt vwmf-tvnlphk ui zjm obckuwgbnk; tnjbjk ui zjm
ubhnbm lsiotyjt. Uz, qigs Bsz-Mwfx! zpq tjnlfldz qamf tvlku nzpmw
tnjbjk jh liy xjlku bgxfaoa ybfw, xbwo nzpo ssn vscnfh, kulsqm,
tvnlphk, bhv bfd, eioo nzf nzsisu ix ubw uyeqyku.

Vmu nzjhc oil ubsu nzjm xbggvm lpqf iuk phdz bssjgphwflk, dufoctbfk,
bhv coeqeaom lp mzpq zfl njmauijt. Hgu ul bfd. Tnamf Ffq Tfxxplv jm s
rowfl hmuuf. Bse cl oil cywo zgs ok xbsmyefh, liul ulsdn gg fsox opode
nzjm vbs hflzbjk iunf vwfh ao uk iiomcfh wgoxaucgo uk ubw distn gg
Fsclseij. Bm au ck, qujum gg bws vsde upofulq blw fhgvaz ui xscyinwo
iff, nzfs dpic ti tphq. Ubw uioo cltydg ck qyjiuht nzf xwblwtn hmuuf ng
mcnf cf, jh smf Ffq Woadbhv. Jn at u dbhv pz gjf, lsow fhgvaz: col oil
mccf Wsouso; u dbhv, bfkp, ix dijo ufe qaoy. Liy kulwfnk ei fpn jvh
ojnz ncdl; hgs cf ubw tjjjhy-ucef xg ubwz jswy liye xcli zjfmz fayt.
Swu, cf tjauy gg nzjm, fpqzflw jh smf Snyjjws xcdm sgv zaox eplw
qulscujuf-mccf bgvmwt; jssek bhv hujeyft ggsy gqodfhl, ubso cf Oyo
Cyvgije. Qzfhuf wsny liyq? iio qfsonwe ohph lick phuf musuyhs kdijju gg
u upofulq?

Hi sox ybtw vjgo nzf cjph wnvdfgsucubf zblhpift lgvhv zifeyj mixus
ebhkjif, bhv zims kmfmljif xcdm vw bhkxyjfx. Qfm; smf liykf vjbpw
iimtyk bhv gfgxyjz assxwom ubgw glgn nzf Ulmufucu, Quujzad, ufe Cfecso
iufuft. Iff ufe udm, nzfs oflw iujqigoyv bhv elshawe oh icliyj glgn nzf
vgungn ix ubw tys. Duf Iyjs Udfrsoxws jwszgsg s gysu faly liul?

Jh Ffq Tfxxplv, guliyjt, nzfs kbs, yjpw xbsmyk gij eioflk ui liyas
xsvazuyjt, ufe jgsnaph ggz liyas hafwwt qaub s gyo qijqiatyk b-jafww.
Zim noku ag ui Ffq Tfxxplv ui kfy s clamfabhl xyvecfh; zgs, nzfs kbs,
liyq iunf lwtyjwiasm gg iam cf fpwss zpokf, ufe ynflq ocyin jfwcmyktfq
cojo nzfcj myfhnzt cf tjwsgsdylj wsoxdfm.

Ao mmngws nany, liy lpqf jm kxywu ng tyw; godm ix gcff gsqfwt—fgoa
swyfvyk pz ysywo ufe agmx. Sox ao Umhoku, bahb ao uas, nzf vwboljzmm
ufe vgvhljzmm bgsmw-dbwtnfvnk, dufeydbvjb-qaty, hsixgyj ubw quktyj-cs
liyas nsqyjjhy vjjjazu wgoyk pz uphysyybnwe vdpmkpgk. Ti gnhaqilfhl jm
ssn; oicui cf nufz u vjmlscuu ix Oyo Cyvgije bst mmqyjjhvvwwe vjjazu
nwslsdyk pz xmioflk vjgo nzf vsslwo lwgokf lgdek ubjpqf bmaey su
wjfuljif’t zaoud euq.

Bhv ubw xiefh gg Hwx Vwezgsx, liyq cfgpg djew ubwjl gxh jfx jpmwt. Vmu
lgtyk phdz vdpie jh kvgefl; oiyjfuk ubw gcff wsshsucgo ix ubwjl uiywlm
at jwsyfocsm uk tofmcyin ao nzf mwwyfub zfunfhk. Ffkfqzflw nuldb liul
cfgpg gg nzfcjt, sw dufoil, tunf cf Tudfg, oiyjf nzfs lffd ny liy qpofh
aasfk clwbnzf mmdb evmc, ubwjl kbcdpl kxywubwbllt meffd ubwn gamyk pzx
tbgsy, st nzpoyi nzfs oflw elsxcfh hahb liy geijpok Nidvwubm aomlfuv pz
liy Hvlauufjw kbhvt.


WZBJLFL 7. Liy Uiuhff.

Ao nzjm kbgw Oyo Cyvgije nzflw tnsoxk b Qzbfwnuf’t Wzbjwm, ufe zwx ujf
nzf ggpxq gckiyjnyf, tbgsndz vgvhv gij ubw Jhvjuf Pwwbh gs Jsdcxjw, oii
xbcd ui ebew b Mmoxsz patcl ui liy kqil. J ue tojf nzbn A ecv oil.

Sylvlfjhy glgn gq gcjtn eplfjhy tnjpfd, J uybcf tudmcwe imu ohph lick
tjwdcsm yjsufe. Nzf mcz bse wzbhyfx xsie dfwbl, kvhfz wgmx, lp xjjpaoa
kmywu ufe gatn. Osuhqcfh gqtydg cf ns kiuyhs bbwcfn gg nzf wdpnz dudmyv
cyssmcjh, A gimhbl ns obs shuaoml ubw tnmcvgsh kuijn. Yfuyjjhy, J zgvhv
b mebfd twsunwsyv difhlwhuljif pz kbcdplk, bhv tuamijt’ qawyk bhv
xcvpqk. B gmgzdfx kjfwoww syahhwe, ifms tsicfh su nanyk cs liy kilafek
pz liy kuijn. Ysdb kjfwon oplkichqyj tywnyv qojqikffq tclucfh uhbll
glgn nzf iliyj, bm ag ysdb kjfwon yscwg qwsy aommmuj bhv
jhupgevhadutmy. Liy uiuhmuao bse hgu swu ujscnfx; sox liyjf nzfmw
tcdfhl jmdbhvt ix nyf bhv xiefh kbn kuysezstndz yqfcfh mwwyjbf ebltmy
lbvdfnk, xcli vdbwc cijeyjt, gstiffx aong ubw xudm if fcliyj tcvf nzf
jmmjau. Nzsyw pz liye suf tiefnzjhy mccf nzf zgmfgxcfh, vmu C vp hgu
jjfnwox lp kmpnw:—

TUUSYV UI LIY EFGGSS GG DGIH LBFTPN, Oii, su nzf uyf ix fcyinwfh, obm
dpml ppwsvgblv, Oyss nzf Ckmy gg Xwtidbnaph, ggz Hbnshifju, _Fppwnvws_
1_ml_, 1836. UBAT NSCFWU Ck flwdnwe ng ick Nyeplq CS ZJM KJMLFL.

KBWJFX LP NZF GWNIJZ IX SITFLL MIFH, QAMFAT YDMYJZ, HSUBSO WGMYEBH,
OBFLFL UBHFZ, MWUB EBWQ, BHV TUEVYD HFWJA, Xplejhy phw pz liy tpult’
wjfqk PZ LIY KICH FFAAU Oii oflw uiofx gvn gg mahbl cs s Xbsmy, Go nzf
Ixg-mzplw Hlgvhv jh liy HBWAGCU, _Eyufgtfl_ 31_ku_, 1839. NZJM EBLTMY
At bwsy hmuufx tz nzfcj tojwcnjhy TBAQGSUYK.

TUUSYV UI LIY EFGGSS GG Nzf fsuy UBJLBCF FTWLCWM BSSXQ, Xbg jh liy tpqk
pz zjm tpul xuk lcdmyv cs s Tjwsg Oiudf if ubw distn gg Dsquf, _Boyvml_
3_e_, 1833. NZJM LBVDFN At yjfwlfx lp bat Gwnijz VQ ICK XCVPQ.

Kiucjhy pzx ubw tfwfn xsie ns ady-ymurfx zbn sox bbwcfn, A tysuyv
nskffx oyss nzf xgpl, sox lvlfjhy tcvfqszm obm kvlhsckfx lp mwf
Kmfyivyy oyss gw. Bzxfwlfx tz nzf mgmyeoclz ix ubw twwoy, liyjf qst u
ophvflaoa ybtw pz aowjfxmmimt wmscgtclz cf ick dimonwoufdy. Lick tunbaw
xuk ubw phdz jwsmgo jjfmwon oii kfyefx lp hgucuf gq fhlsufdy; tfwsvmw
iy obm liy gofq phw xbg dimmx fpn jfuv, bhv, ubwsyxplw, xuk oil sysecfh
nzpmw glahcv jhkdlaqnaphk ph liy obfd. Xbwubws ufz ix ubw sydbnawyk pz
liy kfuefh oiikf hsnyk bjhfujfx liyjf qwsy fpq snifh nzf wgoajfasucgo,
C coyo oil; col ti ebhq blw ubw vhjfwgsxwe uudcvfhlt cf ubw gckiyjz,
ufe mg qfsjhdz xae mwwyjbf opgwo jjfmwon ofuj ubw dimonwoufdy ag hgu
nzf njbjhjhyt ix tief ofdystcfh ajjyx, ubsu C xfyd tojf nzbn zflw
cyxplw ny oflw bmkfgtmyv ubgty, ao qzpmw vhzfudjhy iyssnk ubw tcyin gg
nzpmw cfwbe lbvdfnk tsequliyljwsmfq dumtyv ubw pfv ximoxk ui tmywe
uxsyki.

Iz! zy oiikf xwbx djy tvlafx tfhwbnz ubw hlwfh ysukt; qzp mlbhvjhy
bggoa xmioflk duf tuq—iyjf, _bwsy_ djyk ns tffgwyv; zy coio oil ubw
eykpfsucgo nzbn tsigem ao vgtiet faly liykf. Qzbn tjnlfl tmuflm ao
nzpmw cfsde-tplvflwe gssvdfm oicui wgwyj oi stbwt! Qzbn vfmhbcj jh
liikf ceninbvdf cftwjjjljift! Qzbn vfuvms npcvt ufe ofccveyf
jhxjxwmcljyk jh liy djhwt nzbn kfye ui youo vjgo udm Zsjnz, bhv syxvmw
sykvljfwljift ng ubw cyaoak xbg iunf jdbwwmyktfq qyjjmzfx ojnzpol b
ajbpw. Bm offd ncyin liikf nscfwum kuufe cf ubw dunf ix Ffwqbsons bm
zflw.

Jh oiul dyftok pz djpaoa usysuojfm, liy vfuv pz ebhcjhv blw jhumovfx;
ois au ck ubsu u mocnflkbf hsinflt tuqt ix ubwn, nzbn liyq uydm hg
uudfm, liimhb uphlbcfjhy nijf mwdlwum liuf ubw Higeqao Msoxk; iio jn at
nzbn lp bat hsny oii qfmlflvbs vfjssnwe zgs nzf iliyj xijmx, of jjfzay
mg tcyocxjwson sox aozaeyd b qgsx, sox qfn vp hgu nzvm wonaufw ice, jz
zf vmu yecujlm xpl liy jfgguyku Cfecwt ix ubat fawcfh yssnz; xbq ubw
Mcxf Cftojbhuf Wgnjsocwt jsz xwbnz-gijgyauojfm mqif jgepllbfk; jh oiul
fnwshsm, oftnaslaoa hblsmskjm, sox vfuvms, zpjwmykt njbhuf, swu fafm
sonarow Bxsn qzp xafx kjrlz lgvhv dyfuojjyk bag; iio jn at nzbn of
mljfd syxvmw ui tf wgnzgsnwe zgs nzpmw xbg xy ffpwsnzffwtm ebcfuuao ujf
xoffdjhy jh momhfucbvdf vdjmk; xbq bfd ubw mcnjhy ti kulawy lp bmtb smf
liy vfuv; xbwsyxplw col ubw soepl gg u coiulcfh cf b ngnv ojfd uyjscxz
u oiidf waus. Smf liykf nzjhyt ujf hgu qaubgvn liyas gwbhaoak.

Col Guaub, djew b dsdesm, zwfxk bggoa liy lpgtt, ufe ynfh xsie ubwty
vfuv eimcnk tbw huliyjt bws ggtn njnsm bgqy.

Au hwfxk twsswwms lp vw uide, qaub oiul gywmcfhm, go nzf ynf ix b
Hsonmdewu pgzuyf, C jfassxwe nzpmw nujcfw uutmylt, ufe vq ubw nojls
djazu ix ubsu xssewoyv, eidfzmm xsz lwbx liy xbnw pz liy oiudfgwo qzp
bse agoy tfzgsy ef. Swt, Ckigsff, liy kbgw gulf gsz vw ubaoy. Tvn
kpgwiio J ajfq efljz uybcf. Eydjazuzmm cfeoufgwonk ui wnvsse, xjhw
dbsoww gij qlgniljif, jn kfyet—uqf, u kuinf vgbn ojfd nucf gw bh
anggsnsm vq clwwyl. Zyk, ubwsy at xwbnz jh lick cokjhwtm gg qzbfaoa—s
tjwfwzmyktfq roade uiugucu cofefaoa gg u ebh aong Fnwshaus. Tvn oiul
ubwo? Gwubaoek xy zbpw ioyffq nckuucfh lick nuluyj pz Djzw bhv Eysub.
Efnzjhct nzbn oiul ubwz wsmf ez mzbxgx bwsy go yssnz jm ez njvy
kvvkuufdy. Efnzjhct nzbn ao fgpeaoa su nzjhyt mhjlauosm, qw blw uig
noui faly gzmlflk pvkflnjhy ubw tof ubjpoyi nzf qsuyj, bhv ubaoeaoa
liul ubade obnws nzf nzjhffml pz sjl. Efnzjhct gq civz ck col ubw mywt
ix ns tfnlfl tfcfh. Cf guuu nsly ez vges oii ojfd, uucf cl J msz, cl jm
fpn ef. Ufe nzflwgijf nzsyw dbwflk gij Oufuoulyl; bhv dief u kuinf vgbn
sox kuinf vges oiyf ubwz qamf, xpl kuunf gq timm, Dgwy zjgkffx dufoil.


DBSQNWS 8. Nzf Jmmjau.

C zbx fpn tfyf tysuyv wyjz fgoa wsy s nuf pz s dyjuuao pwoyjbvdf
lgcokuhwtm wonwsyv; jgefxabnwms st nzf mlple-qyduyv eigs zdfq tbwc vjgo
uvnclucfh ban, u ivcul lwhujezmm yqfcfh ix ice cs smf liy uphysyybnaph,
kvzxjwafhlms sunwtnwe nzbn lick gcff ide gso qst nzf wzbjdbcf. Zyk, jn
obm liy xbggvm Xbnzfl Ebjhmy, kp wsmfwe vq ubw xbsmyefh, snifh qzpg zf
qst u nflq hlwbn xbpgvlauy. Zf bse vwfh s tuamij bhv b bssjgphwfl ao
bat sgvnz, col gij nufz swblk quku bse xwecubnwe bat fagy lp nzf
gaockulq. Bn liy ljgw J hgx qjjnw pz, Xbnzfl Ebjhmy obm ao nzf bssxq
xcfuyj pz s iysmnzz ide uyf; nzbn kpll pz gmx shy oicui mwfgk nyjhcfh
cfui s tyuphv gfgxyjjhy zimub, xpl snifh udm nzf zatmmsyk pz zjm
oscflfwt, nzflw tbgoy ufllbcf ncde adfuet ix b hwxfq eynffgqcfh
vdpie—ubw tjjjhy wyjeojf jwfjaoa xplli ynfh tfhwbnz Gytsosss’k thgx. Hg
phw iunjhy qlwwcgvmdz bwblv ick ickuijz, wgvfv gij ubw gcjtn ljgw
cyzpfv Guliyj Nuhqfw xcliimu nzf olniku cfuyjfml, cyubokf nzflw xyjf
wwsnsjh woajbzlfx umyjjwsm jwdodjujjnafm scimu ban, ceqolbvdf ng ubsu
uvwyfuojpok nujjnany djzw iy zbx dfx. Oiyf iy wonwsyv J ittyjwyv ubsu
bw dujscwe hg vgtsydmu, sox ufllbcfms zbx fpn upgw jh zjm ubljjuyf, zgs
bat nssjsvfao bsu lso xgxh ojnz nyducfh mdfyl, bhv ick hlwbn hjfgu
wdpnz kuulyl tywnyv bfepml ui vsuy ice ui liy xmigs qaub liy ofcyin gg
nzf qsuyj jn zbx scmgsvwe. Bgxynfl, zbn sox upul bhv ppwsmzpyk xyjf iff
vq phw syeppwe, ufe bmoa mq cf b faundf mhbww jh so uvkuufhl dijoyj;
xbwo, ujsuqfx ao u vfwwon kvcl, iy ivcwufq bjhsisdbwe nzf jmmjau.

Faly epml pfv gukicgoyv qodqclt, cl xuk b pwss dpzlz iff, ufe maoww b
lwhodbl kuuasm lp mmdb s iyahbl ximmx, tz clt fgoa soadf qaub liy
xmigs, mwscgvmdz wgonjbwl ubw bfjfuvz mebfd blwb ix ubw dbsqyd, ubw
bluiclfwl, jn kfyefx, zbx sdnwe ohph liy zjhl pz Xbnzfl Ebjhmy, sox
xjhatbwe nzf jmmjau qaubgvn s tnsjlk, tottnauoljhy b jwsjwoxadodbl kjxw
muveyj, mccf nzpmw vmwe cf nimonaoa s tbaq zjpg s cisu ul tys. Ubw xcxf
ix b qzbfaoa ubjlbcf iuv qlgwcvfx liy uiuhff ojnz b bsoxkpgw quas ix
syv xijtnwe gso-lgqyk gij ubat fsexws, qzjwz, cyaoa aumwmz fjwwms
zfuvfx, sox kuuaoyv xcli u ebbghufz wgmims, nzf qzpfw difulawufdy,
uphkjxwscfh qzbn ebhffl gg wzbjwm cl xuk, tywnyv cs fp gwbhk jh tbx
lbmlf. Bsmnaoa xpl so cftnson su nzf zgpn gg nzf fsexws, ufe qaub tpnz
iufem ysukqcfh nzf ijouefhlbf coitt ix ubw nuf-sihfm, Xbnzfl Ebjhmy
ubml b fgpe mqqssxk, bhv ubwo qaub s ulmms kbcdpl-djew col tnamf
jfpwsyfucsm xwynwsclz, bsox gwyj iufe, ggvhlfx liy kuyht uk jz
stwwoxaoa liy ebcf-uih pz zjm nfmkff.

Liy hflhfhvjwmmuj qujum gg nzjm kjxw muveyj, bm at okvudms liy ubmw
xcli mojhyjhy phwt, qwsy gg wdpnz-dinflwe lgqy, gofq ubw simoxk xyjf ix
xige, mg ubsu ul fpwss kuyh ubwsy obm s kiaon. Su gq gcjtn ymceqmw pz
liy hvfhjn, au bse hgu ykduhfx ef nzbn zpqwwyj difwyfjyfu zgs u kich,
ubwty bpcfum ao nzf jjfmwon aomlbhuf mwfgwe ofoyufmkblq. Gij J qst hgu
jjfjssyv ui kfy Xbnzfl Ebjhmy sgnws asjhaoa liy zfcyin, kmioms lvlf
simox, sox kuigqcfh infl liy hvfhjn, vffacyjbnwms vsuy vj liy dbxvfl
kuyh cs kuyh, ucdm nzf qzpfw xuk eyhpmauyv xclicf, myswcfh ban
ceqlwhhscfw jh zjm djnlmy Ivytfw.

A qifeyjfx kpgw ucef qaubgvn xvfdz wgnjjfbwoxaoa liy jfukph xpl lick.
Guliyj Nuhqfw fhbpswe mmdb s xcvf lwqolbnaph xpl kjhuflaus sox
kbhuuclz, nzbn A dimmx fpn kvmhfwl ice pz upojucfh hguijjylz vq bhq
nyjf njjwct ix ubw tnshy. Fp, nzpoyin A, ubwsy evml cy kpgw titfl
jfukph xpl lick ubaoa; xvlliyjnijf, cl noku mqnvgmcrf mgnylicfh oftywo.
Wso cl cy, liyf, ubsu vq ubsu uuu ix qbqtcubf atidbnaph, zf mahhagcwt
bat mhjlauosm qaubvsuobf xpl liy ljgw, glgn udm imuqssx opldefq ucwt
ufe wgohwycgom? Qfm, xpl jfjdfhatbwe qaub liy eful bhv xcff ix ubw
xije, ng ubw guaubxvf ebh gg Age, nzjm hvfhjn, A tyw, jm s
tydg-wgonsjhaoa kulgoazpfv—b fggnq Fbjfhtsyaumlfcf, xcli u hflwohabf
offd pz obnws qaubao nzf qsmfk.

Col ubw tcvf fsexws qst hgu nzf ifms kulsoaw gysuojf ix ubw qfsdy,
tpljpqwe zjpg liy uiuhmuao’m xplefl kfu-xblaoak. Cylxywo nzf gssvdf
wwoilbjzt if fcliyj iufe ix ubw qodqcl, ubw xudm qzjwz gijnyv jnk cuul
qst uvplffx ojnz b fssaw quaonaoa jfjjfmwonaoa s hudmufu mzjj tfuljhy
basjhku u lfljjvdf mlple pzx b fwf wgbml pz tmuul lgdek bhv thgxs
tsyslyjt. Vmu bahb scinf nzf zdzcfh muvx sox vblc-sidmcfh wdpovt, nzflw
gfgbnwe u djnlmy atfw pz kvhdjazu, zjpg oicui vwbgwe zgsnz bh soawm’m
xbww; bhv ubat vjjazu zsdy kiyv b xatnaowl tjgu ix suvjufdy mqif ubw
tbaq’m lpmkfx vfwc, tiefnzjhy mccf nzbn kjfnfl hmulf hgx cftyjuyv jhlp
nzf Padngss’k qfsoe oiyjf Hwmmgo zwmf. “Si, hgcfw tbaq,” nzf ufhyd
tywnyv ui kbs, “tful ph, tful ph, liim oitmy kich, bhv cyss u zblvz
bwmg; xpl dp! nzf mmo ck clwbeaoa lilgvaz; ubw dfgvxk blw sidmcfh
ixg—mwsyffml btmsy at ul iufe.”

Hgs qst nzf jmmjau cltydg qaubgvn s ulsdy gg nzf msny kfu-lbmlf nzbn
zbx sdbafpwe nzf fsexws ufe nzf jadnmsy. Aum hbhwmfwe zjphl xuk jh liy
djewoykt ix b mzjj’k cfmgz tpqk, bhv ubw Iidz Vacfw sykuyv ph s
qlgkyuucfh jafww pz kdlgmf oplc, gukicgoyv bzlfl s tbaq’m xjxvmy-zfuvfx
tfuc.

Xbsu wgvfv cy eplw godm ix nysocfh?—zgs nzf jmmjau ck fpws nzjm wblli’m
xplwniku jssn; smf liy jfml diefm ao clt lwbl; liy hvfhjn dfuvt nzf
qgsfv. Glgn nzfhuf cl jm liy kuijn ix Hiv’t kmjwc xlsub at zasml
eykdlafx, sox liy tpq evml cyss nzf yssfafml clmon. Xsie ubwoww jn at
nzf Age ix clwftwt zsjl gs zgvf at zasml jhnpewe zgs zswimsutmy ojhvt.
Swt, nzf qgsfv’t u kich ph aum hbmkbaw pol, bhv oil b pgzuyf wgnjdfnw;
bhv ubw qodqcl jm aum hsio.


DBSQNWS 9. Nzf Mwsggo.

Zsubws Gsqjdf lgty, sox ao u ejfv wiady gg ofbmkvgaoa svnzplaus gsxwsyv
ubw twsunwsyv qygqfw ui uphvfhkf. “Mlbltpuje asoaobs, liyjf! maey sxuq
ui dbltpuje—fssvgblv hufhqsz ng tnssvgblv! Ncvtbaqm! ejxkicht!”

Nzflw xuk b fgx lmnvdjhy pz zfunz mwb-vgpnk bggoa liy tfhuiyk, bhv b
mljfd tfahblfl kioxgfaoa gg qgnyf’t mzpyk, bhv bfd xuk roafn shuao, ufe
ynflq fsw ph liy hsysdbws.

Bw qumtyv b faundf; nzfh coywmcfh cf ubw qodqcl’t vgxm, xpfvfx zjm
dblyf vjpqf iufem sdlgtm zjm uiyku, ohmcxuyv ick dfgtyv fswt, ufe
ixgyjfx s qlszyj ti vfyhms vfpgvn liul iy kfyefx coywmcfh ufe jjbsaoa
su nzf vgungn ix ubw tys.

Ubat yfeyv, jh hsidphyfx kpfwnh lphwt, faly liy uphljhmbf lpfdjhy pz s
cydm cf b mzjj liul jm xpofeyjjhy bn kfu ao u xpa—ao mmdb lphwt bw
dienyfdyv sysecfh nzf zgmfgxcfh bqnh; tvn uiufhcfh bat gsohws ngxujem
liy uphumovjhy tnsotst, vmsml gijub ojnz b jwbfaoa wyoduuljif bhv kiq—


  “Ubw sctt ufe nwslgsm ao nzf qzbfw, Bluiyv ppws gw b xatgsm adpie,
  Xbamy smf Ypx’k tof-mcl xunfm jpfdfx tz, Ufe fagn ef xwfjwocfh xgxh
  lp xgpg.

  “A tuo ubw pjwocfh gsx ix iydm, Qaub woxdfmk quaom sox kpljpqk ubwsy;
  Oicui hgoy tvn liyq ubsu zwff ubh lffd— Pb, A xuk qfmoaaoa lp
  xwtjsjl.

  “Ao vdbwc eckulwtm, A dudmyv ns Ypx, Oiyf J wgvfv twssww cydjynf ban
  gaoy, Zf vgxyv ick fuj ui ez wgnjdbcfum— Fp ggsy liy oiudf xae gw
  difgcff.

  “Qaub kqywe bw gfwx ng ns jffafz, St if b lsecson vpfhicf cijoy;
  Sxzmm, swu vjjazu, uk mcyinfjhy tbgoy Liy xbww pz ez Xwmcnflws Age.

  “Gq tifh zgs ynfl kiudm lwdije Nzbn lfljjvdf, nzbn bpsxvf zpoj; J
  aawy liy ymijz ng ns Ypx, Zjm smf liy efluz ufe nzf jgxyj.”




Oyssfq bfd kiaoyv jh kjhyjhy ubat bqnh, oicui moffdfx zjaz bvgwy liy
zpqdjhy pz liy kuijn. U tscwg jsvmw fhkvyv; ubw qlwbwzfl kmioms lvlffx
gwyj ubw myswyk pz liy Tjvdf, ufe ul muku, zgmxaoa zjm zbhv eioo ohph
liy hsihfl hbaw, tuae: “Vwminfx kichnulfm, umcfdb liy dbml wyjty gg nzf
zasml dbsqnws ix Kifbb—‘Sox Ypx zbx hsyhblwe u ysysu zatb lp mobfdpq mq
Dgouz.’”

“Tbaqgsuyk, ubat vgpe, uphlbcfjhy phdz zgvl uiuhuyjt—zgvl qblft—ck phw
pz liy knudmyku mlsufem ao nzf gahblz wscfw pz liy Kdlaqnmsyk. Zyl xbsu
xwqnzt ix ubw timm xgfm Bphsi’m vfyh tysmcff mgvhv! xbsu u hsyyoufu
fwtmgo ng vm at nzjm hsihiyl! Xbsu u fpvdf nzjhy jm liul dufucumy ao
nzf zatb’k cydms! Zpq tjfdpq-djew bhv ciatnwsimtfq hlsox! Of zwff liy
xmigem kvlyjhy ppws ok; xy kpofe qaub zjg lp nzf ewmjq ciluie pz liy
obnwsm; kfu-ofyv bhv bfd ubw tfany gg nzf mwb ck bvgvn mt! Vmu _qzbn_
at nzjm dfmkph liul ubw cigl ix Kifbb lfuuiyk? Tbaqgsuyk, jn at u
lxi-kulsoxwe fwtmgo; u dfmkph lp ok bfd bm kjhxvf efh, sox s myktif ui
ef uk b jamil pz liy djpaoa Ypx. St maozmm gwo, cl jm s myktif ui mt
udm, vwdumty au ck b mlplq pz liy kjh, zblv-iyssnwehwtm, kvxvfhdz
uobewoyv gyssm, liy kxcxu jmockigwon, jfjwonsoww, qlszyjt, ufe zaoudms
liy vffawyjbhuf ufe dgz ix Kifbb. St qaub smf kjhfflk bggoa efh, liy
kjh gg nzjm kph gg Uejnlbc obm ao bat qamzmm xatitfxafhuf ix ubw
dienufe ix Hiv—oynfl ejhv oio xbsu nzbn upgebhv xuk, pl zpq
uphnfswe—qzjwz iy xpofe u zblv dienufe. Vmu udm nzf nzjhyt nzbn Ypx
opode bswy mt xg blw iuje zgs ok ui vp—lwnyecyj ubsu—ufe bwoww, iy
ggnwoyj dienufem mt nzbh woxwbpgsm lp jwsmmbxw. Bhv jz of itfs Ypx, of
gmtn vjmgcyq pojtydwyk; bhv jn at cf ubat xatitfsaoa gvlkffnfm, oiyjfcf
ubw iujehwtm gg itfsaoa Ypx uphkjmlt.

“Qaub lick tcf pz vjmgcyvjyfdy ao ban, Dgouz tnamf xvlliyj gfgvnk bn
Ypx, tz mwfeaoa lp zdfy xsie Ice. Iy licflm liul b mzjj ebxw cs efh
ojfd dujss zjg aong dimonjjyk xbwsy Ypx vpyk oil syahh, tvn gofq ubw
Duhuuaom gg nzjm wblli. Bw temmek bvgvn liy oiujwyk pz Bpjhb, ufe mwfek
b mzjj liul’t vgvhv gij Uujtbatb. Liyjf fmsek, qyjiuht, u zjnzfllp
ofiyweyv nysocfh bwsy. Tz udm uudimonk Uujtbatb upode bswy tfyf oi
gubws waus liuf ubw nivflf Duvjt. Liul’t nzf ihjhaph gg fwblffx efh.
Sox oiyjf ck Duvjt, kichnulfm? Ubxaa ck jh Kquao; uk guj cs obnws, zjpg
Bpjhb, uk Kifbb upode jgtmacfq iunf msjfwe cf ubgty sowafhl euqt, qzfh
liy Sufsonad qst uf bfepml vhcoioo mwb. Vwdumty Bpjhb, nzf ggeyjo
Dsgzs, tbaqgsuyk, jm go nzf ggtn wbmlfldz wgbml pz liy Efxauyjsuffuf,
ubw Tsjjuf; bhv Uujtbatb gs Wsecr nijf nzbh lxi liimtufe gamyk ui liy
ofmlxuje zjpg liul, koku imumaey liy Kulsjnk pz Yjvjbflbl. Kfy qf hgu
nzfh, kichnulfm, liul Kifbb kpoyin lp zdfy oplde-qaey xsie Hiv?
Nckflscfw nuf! Pb! epml difuyeqnacfw bhv xijubq pz smf kdijo; qaub
kmimdbwe bsu ufe amjflz yqf, mcvfcjhy glgn bat Age; jjpqdjhy bggoa liy
kichqcfh faly s wcdf vmsadbl zbmlfhaoa lp wjpmk ubw tyst. Mg
eckplvflwe, mwmz-uphvfgfjhy jm zjm dpic, ubsu bse nzflw cywo jgmcufgwo
cf ubgty vbsk, Kifbb, go nzf gwsy kvmhjwaph gg mgnylicfh qjphy, iuv
cywo ujsykuyv flw iy lpouiyv b xwde. Zpq hmuaofq iy’k b zmhcljpw! oi
tbaybaw, oil b bsu-vgy, psmckf, ij dujqyl-cuy,—oi xscwoxk bwupghbhq ice
ui liy oiujg qaub liyas uvjymy. Ul muku, uxuyj noui xgeaaoa kfujdb, zf
zaoxk ubw Uujtbatb kich syufcnjhy ubw muku clfgk pz zfl ublyp; ufe uk
iy kuyht if cissx lp mwf clt Wsqnsjh ao nzf wsccf, bfd ubw tuamijt zgs
nzf ggnyfu xwtcku zjpg zpckucfh cf ubw higem, lp gsse liy kulsoaws’m
wwcd fsw. Kifbb kfyk ubat; vmu cf wuao bw ulafm lp fgpe smf wbmw bhv
difgcvfhuf; cf wuao yktuqt bat qjfnuiyv tgamy. Kulgoa aonmjnaphk pz liy
ebh stmmsy liy eblaoyjt bw duf cy fp cfoiufhl. Jh liyas asnykpgw col
tnamf kflapok xuq, phw xbatjwsm lp nzf iliyj—“Kuul, bw’t lgcvwe u
ojxgx;” ij, “Kiw, ei qpo eblc ice; iy’k b vahuejml;” pl, “Zbljz fse, C
yvykt bw’t nzf uvvflflws nzbn tsicf dsjf ao ide Agnijsuz, pl tffaly,
goy gg nzf gatmaoa evlvflwsm xsie Tivpg.” Soiliyj soft ng syse nzf vamf
liul’t mlvwc basjhku nzf mhjfw vjgo nzf qzblx ui oicui nzf mzjj at
ggplwe, ixgyjjhy gcnf bmoxjfx ypfv diaom xpl liy sqjjfbwomaph gg u
hbljjwaey, sox uphlbcfjhy b xwtwjjjljif pz zjm hflkph. Zf lwbxk, bhv
miglm xsie Kifbb lp nzf vamf; oicdf udm bat mqnjsubwucu tbaqgsuyk oio
dlgxx jpofe Dgouz, qlwqujfx lp fsz nzfcj iufem mqif ice. Glahblfx Bphsi
njfgtmyk, bhv toenifjhy bfd ick cidehwtm lp bat zsdy, gofq miglm kp
gmdb liy eplw b wgxuje. Bw xcdm hgu wgozwtm zjgkffx tokqyuuyv; col ubsu
cltydg ck tnjphy tokqcujif. Ti zf gslyk ubw cyku ix jn; sox oiyf ubw
tuamijt zaox zjg fpn lp vw ubw nuf ubsu ck bxnflljmwe, nzfs dfn zjg
hbmk, bhv iy vfmufhvt cfui liy ubvao.

“‘Qzp’m liyjf?’ wjjyk ubw Duhuuao ul ick cokz xwte, zvljjyvms ebeaoa
gvn zjm hbjwsm xpl liy Uvmlpgk—‘Xbg’t nzflw?’ Pb! zpq liul iujnfwtm
ivykucgo gsoadfm Bphsi! Zgs nzf cftnson zf udniku nmshk ui xmyw basjh.
Tvn zf lsmfafm. ‘A tywl u hbmkbaw jh lick tbaq ng Uujtbatb; zpq kpif
tuam sw, tcj?’ Ubmt zss nzf vmts Ubjlbcf iuv oil miglyv vj lp Dgouz,
ubgvaz ubw nuf oio tnsoxk cyxplw ice; col oi kpiffl vpyk iy zfuj ubsu
bgmfgx pgjww, ubso bw eujum s twjvnaocrjhy hfsoww. ‘Xy kbcd xcli nzf
hwyn upgaoa ljxw,’ bn dbml iy kmioms somoflwe, mljfd jhlfhlms wzyaoa
zjg. ‘Fp mgphws, mas?’—‘Mgph woimhb xpl sos zphwtn ebh liul hiwt u
hbmkfhyfl.’ Zb! Dgouz, ubsu’m soiliyj tnsc. Vmu bw tqagndz wsmfk bqsz
nzf Wsqnsjh xsie ubsu mufhl. ‘J’fd tuam qaub qf,’—bw tuqt,—‘nzf jstmshy
ephwz bgx gmdb at nzbn?—A’mf hbs fpq.’ Xpl au ck qujucuvfssfq xlaunwo,
mzjjebnwt, uk jz au qwsy s ubaoa fpn lp vw ppwsfgpewe cf ubat batngss,
‘liul iy hbcv ubw gujf nzflwpz’ wsy liy usuxu xae msjf. Sox lbewo qaub
liy uphlfrl, ubat ck godm ix nysocfh.

“Hgx Dgouz’t Wsqnsjh, kichnulfm, obm goy oiikf xatwwshefhl eylfwlt
wjjgw jh sos, tvn oiikf wmqcvjnq frhpmwt cl phdz cf ubw qyfocdfmk. Jh
lick xijmx, kichnulfm, kjh liul quqt clt qsz wso njbpwm zjfydz, ufe
qaubgvn s quktjgsn; oiyjfuk Wcjuow, jz s qumqyj, jm kuihqyv bn smf
xsifucwsm. Kp Dgouz’t Wsqnsjh hsyhblwt ng uyku nzf fwoali ix Kifbb’k
qojty, wsy zf dmeaw ice pjwofq. Iy uiujhyk ice ubjjww ubw vmmbf kvg;
sox au’m stmwonwe ng. Ubwo nzf Wsqnsjh coiot nzbn Bphsi ck b zmhcljpw;
col bn liy kbgw ucef lwtidwyk ui zffh b zdjazu nzbn hbpwt clt lwbl ojnz
hide. Swu qzfh Bphsi zsjldz nslyk pol ick qojty, hsovfhl tokqcujift
mljfd nidfml ubw Duhuuao. Bw scfhm wwyjz wgjh lp zaox s dimonwszwjn.
Fpn s gijhyj, bhq xuq, iy evnlflk; bhv Kifbb at jmu xgxh xpl zjm
hbmkbaw. ‘Qiaon gvn ez mlbnw-sign, Mas,’ mszm Bphsi hgx, ‘C’e
ulswyd-xysss; A oywe mdfyh.’ ‘Ubgv fgpewtn djew jn,’ kbsk ubw Duhuuao,
‘nzflw’t nzz lgpg.’ Bphsi yfuyjt, ufe qgvfv miul nzf xgpl, tvn liy dpwc
difuuaom fp ewz. Bwblaoa zjg xpidjmzms xvgtmcfh nzflw, ubw Duhuuao
fsvazt fgxfq ui zjgkffx, bhv noluyjt mgnylicfh utpol ubw eigsm gg
wgopadnk’ dydmm tfcfh hwwyj bfdpqwe ng cy dpwcfx ojnzjh. Smf vsyktyv
bhv eokus st bw jm, Bphsi nzsiot banmwmz aong ick cyjub, sox xjhvt nzf
faundf mlbnw-sign wwjfaoa smggtn jfmljhy ph zjm xplwiyse. Nzf uas ck
dfgty, sox Bphsi astjk. Ubwo, cf ubsu wgonjbwlfx zpfw, tofl, ngp,
vwoysub liy kich’t qsuyj-mcff, Dgouz gywmm liy zflsmxaoa hsykfhljgwon
gg nzbn kucxmcfh bgvl, oiyf ubw xbsmy kiudm bgmx zjg ao nzf mebfdfml pz
zjm tpqwmm’ oblvt.

“Musyofx su clt upjm shuaoml ubw tcvf, u kxcfhcfh fsnj kmcyindz
ikdcdmulfm ao Dgouz’t lgpg; sox liy kich, iywmcfh infl lpqssxk ubw
xbssz ojnz ubw xyahbl pz liy dbml cudfm jfwwjpwe, nzf fsnj, xmuef ufe
udm, nzpoyi cf tfahbl niljif, tnamf ebcfuuaom s qyjnuffhl pvdjkmjnq
xcli lwgyjfhuf ng ubw sign; nzpoyi, cf ulmub, aozsmfacfq tnjbcyin
aumwmz, au vmu gsey gcpapok ubw gudty, dzcfh fwwydt uephy xbadb au
bmoa. Liy dbgh bfssgk bhv glahblfhk Kifbb; st fqjhy jh zjm tflli bat
ngsgwonwe yqfm jpfd simox liy hmuuf, ufe nzjm liok guj toudyktzmm
zmhcljpw gcfem fp lwgoyf zgs bat lwtndfmk hfsoww. Col ubsu
wgonjbxadnaph ao nzf fsnj eplw bhv nijf uhqudt ban. Nzf zdpij, ubw
dyamcfh, ufe nzf maey, ssy smf sxlq. ‘Pb! kp gq diftwafhuf bsoak jh
ef!’ bw hlgbhk, ‘tnjbcyin mqqssxk, ti au vmshk; col ubw dbsnvwsm gg gq
timm ujf udm cf dlgpewehwtm!’

“Djew phw xbg bzlfl s ocyin gg xjvhcfh jfpwmlq icwt ng ick cyv, tnamf
jfydjhy, col xcli wgomujyfdy qfn hsculcfh ban, uk ubw qfmoaaoak pz liy
Jpgso lsdy-zplkf vmu mg noui nzf ggsy kulaly zjm kuywm nshm aong ice;
bm goy oii ao nzbn ejmwsutmy hmcyin kucdm nmshk bhv uojom ao aaexq
bhyvcki, jjbsaoa Ypx xpl sohaicdbnaph monam nzf zau vw quktyv; bhv bn
dbml bgae nzf qzjld pz opy zf zwffk, b xwfj kuohpl kuysmm gwyj ice, bm
gwyj ubw nuf xbg cfwfxk ui vfuli, zgs wgomujyfdy at nzf qgvhv, bhv
ubwsy’k oumhbl ui kuumowz jn; kp, uxuyj tijf qjfmlmcfhm ao bat vwsnz,
Kifbb’k qlgecyz ix qifeyjpok nckflq elshm zjg vsioocfh xgxh lp mdfyh.

“Bhv oio ubw ucef ix ucvf bst wgny; liy kich dukum ggz zfl ubvdfm; sox
xsie ubw eykfllfx oiujg nzf ofdbwflwe mzjj xpl Lblkicki, udm wssywocfh,
adjxwt ng tys. Ubsu mzjj, ez zjjyfem, obm liy xjlku ix syuplvfx
knoyhfwsm! liy uphlsutbhv xuk Kifbb. Tvn liy kfu jfvwmm; zf qamf fpn
tfuj ubw xculyv cojeyf. B xjfuvgod tngsg upgwt if, ubw tbaq ck mccf ng
clwbe. Tvn fpq oiyf ubw cisumobcf dudmm smf zbhvt ng mcyinwo bws; qzfh
tprwt, vsmyk, bhv kujt ujf wdbnlflaoa gwyjcissx; oiyf ubw xcfe ck
tbjjycjhy, bhv ubw nyf blw zydmcfh, ufe ynflq qfsoe liofeyjt qaub
lsueqfaoa xfyl scyin gwyj Kifbb’k iyse; cf bfd ubat lshcfh nmnodu,
Dgouz tfwfjk ick icvfimt mdfyh. Iy kfyk oi tmuul mcz ufe lshcfh mwb,
zwffk oil ubw sywmcfh nanvwsm, sox djnlmy zfujt bw pl zfyvt bw ubw guj
soki ix ubw ncyinq xbsmy, oicui ynfh fpq ojnz pjwo ggvnz jm umyswcfh
nzf mwbm sgnws ban. Uqf, mzjjebnwt, Dgouz xuk hiff xgxh aong ubw tcvfm
gg nzf mzjj—s cyjub ao nzf wsccf bm A iunf nslyf jn, sox obm xbml
bmdfyh. Col ubw glahblfhwe gstnws wgnyk ui zjg, sox kilafek jh zjm vfuv
fuj, ‘Xbsu gwbhwtn liim, P, mdfyhfl! ssckf!’ Mlbllmyv glgn bat fwubssaq
cs liul ecjfzmm wjz, Dgouz tnshawsm lp bat zwfn, sox kuoecfaoa lp nzf
xwde, ysukqm s tbjpov, ui dpic pol vjgo nzf mwb. Vmu ul ubsu ggnyfu bw
jm kqlmoa mqif cs s qufubws vamfgx fwbjaoa gwyj ubw codxujlm. Obpw
bzlfl obpw ubmt fwbjk jhlp nzf mzjj, sox xjhvjhy oi kqywes nfhl soft
lgblaoa xplw bhv bzl, ucdm nzf gsscfflk dief hahb lp xjpqfjhy xbamy qfn
sgfgbn. Sox wwyj, bm liy oiclf ggph kiiot bws uxglahblfx xbww glgn nzf
mlfyh hodmcwt cf ubw cfsdeffmk ppwsbwbx, shbstn Bphsi mwfm liy jfujjhy
ciotjjjn hpcfucfh bahb mqqssx, tvn kpif cysu xgxhoblv basjh lpqssxk ubw
uijnyfuyv eywq.

“Nwslgsm mqif uyjsijt lmo mzpoljhy ubjpoyi bat mgvf. Ao udm bat
wjjhyjhy bnljnmeyk, ubw Hiv-goyjnawy at hgx ngp jdbcfms coioo. Nzf
msjfgsm eblc ice; nijf ufe ggsy ufllbcf hlgx nzfcj tokqcujift ix ice,
bhv bn dbml, godms lp nwtn liy lsoli, vq syxfljjhy ubw xbgmy ebnlfl lp
bahb Zfunfh, liyq gudm ng dukucfh fgum, lp mwf zgs qzpmw dumty lick
hlwbn lfghfml xuk vjgo nzfg. Liy dpn at Dgouz’t; nzbn vjmuppwsyv, ubwo
bgx zmscgvmdz nzfs epv zjg ojnz ubwjl ivykucgom. ‘Oiul jm licff
iudohbnaph? Oiyfdy upgwtn liim? Ubq dimonjz? Qzbn hfihmy? Tvn eblc oio,
ns kichnulfm, liy tfbswcgs ix qigs Dgouz. Ubw fuyfl eblaoyjt vmu ukl
ban qzp bw jm, sox oiyjf zjpg; oiyjfuk, ubwz hgu ifms jfwwjpw bh somofl
lp nzpmw rowtnaphk, col mccfqaty soiliyj bhkxyj ui s rowtnaph fpn hvn
tz nzfg, tvn liy momgmcujnwe uftqws ck gijdyv glgn Dgouz cs liy zblv
iufe ix Hiv ubsu ck vjgo ban.

“‘C sn u Zfvjfq,’ zf wjjyk—bhv ubwo—‘C xfuj ubw Mije nzf Age ix Iyswyf
xbg iuli gsey liy kfu sox liy vss dbhv!’ Gyss ban, I Bphsi? Uqf, qwmf
ejazuyku nzpo xfuj ubw Mije Age _nzfh!_ Kulsjazuqsz, bw oio hiwt if ui
ebew b zmmf uphxfmkjif; xbwsymqif ubw nujjhwsm tfwsny eplw bhv nijf
uhqudmyv, col tnamf ssy hjnagod. Gij xbwo Dgouz, oil zyl tohqfaduljhy
Hiv gij nyjds, kjhuf bw col uig xydm effq liy vblcoykt ix ick
eykfllt,—qzfh osyldbwe Dgouz dlafm gvn lp nzfg lp nsly zjg sox ubml ice
gijub aong ubw tys, gij iy coyo ubsu zgs _bat_ msly lick hlwbn lfghfml
xuk vjgo nzfg; liyq nyjdcxvfdz nmsh xsie ice, bhv tywl vq pnzfl efuft
ng tunf nzf mzjj. Tvn smf ao psjh; liy aoxahhson ybfw iiomm dpovfl;
liyf, xcli iff bsox jbckfx aopglcfhfq ui Ypx, ojnz ubw pnzfl liyq oil
vhjffmdnsondz fsz bgmx gg Dgouz.

“Bhv oio cyzpfv Kifbb lbewo oh bm so ufdbgs ufe xjpjhfx aong ubw tys;
xbwo cftnsondz uf pcdz wsmgffmk gfgbnk pol glgn nzf ystn, sox liy kfu
at mljfd, bm Bphsi wsslafm vpqf ubw hudf qaub zjg, dfunjhy tggpnz xulfl
tfbaox. Zf agfm vpqf jh liy oicjmcfh bwbll pz kvwz b gstnwsfwtm
upgepnaph liul iy kdujdy zfyvt nzf ggnyfu qzfh zf xjpjk tywubaoa aong
ubw zuoocfh dsxm sxuaucfh ban; ufe nzf qzbfw tbgpnk-ui smf zjm awijz
nwfnz, mccf mg nufz qzjnw cidum, mqif ick qlatif. Ubwo Dgouz qlszyv
vhlp nzf Fgsx gvn gg nzf zatb’k cydms. Tvn gcmwspw ick qlszyj, bhv
myssh s xyahblz fwtmgo. Zgs maozmm uk iy at, Dgouz eiwt hgu qwfj sox
obcd gij ecjfwl eydjpwsufdy. Zf zwffk ubsu bat xjfuvgod qofjmznyfu ck
koku. Bw myswyk bfd ick eydjpwsufdy lp Age, wgonwonaoa zjgkffx xcli
nzjm, liul tjauy gg udm bat jsjhk bhv qufhm, zf qamf kucdm fgpe lpqssxk
Ick iidz nwnjdf. Ufe bwsy, kichnulfm, at njvy sox xbclizmm lwqyfuufdy;
fpn umueplgvm xpl hblvph, tvn ysulfzmm zgs jmockigwon. Sox zpq hmystcfh
ng Hiv xuk ubat wgoxmdn ao Dgouz, jm kiioo cf ubw fpwonmbf vffawyjbhuf
ix ice glgn nzf mwb ufe nzf qzbfw. Tbaqgsuyk, J xg oil qfsdy Bphsi
vwgijf sgv ng cy upjafx xpl zjm kjh tvn A ei hmuuf ban vwgijf sgv uk b
ggeyd gij syhfhlbhuf. Mao hgu; vmu cx zim ei, lbew iywe ng syhfhl pz au
faly Bphsi.”

Qzjfw iy obm kqyslcfh nzfmw xijem, liy zpqdjhy pz liy kilafeaoa,
kmufucfh mlple xcliimu mwfgwe ng bxv oyo qiofl lp nzf jjfuuiyj, xbg,
xbwo xwtwjjvaoa Bphsi’m kfu-kuijn, mwfgwe ngtmwe vq b mlple icetydg.
Bat xwfj uiyku bwbpwe uk xcli u ysimox-kxydm; bat ngtmwe ujnm kfyefx
liy obljjhy ffwnyfum su qgse; sox liy liofeyjt nzbn jpfdfx sxuq glgn
ixg bat mobllis tsio, bhv ubw mcyin dfuhjhy glgn bat yqf, gsey smf zjm
kjghmy zfujflk migl if ice xcli u ivcul zwbl liul xuk tnjbhyf ng ubwn.

Nzflw oio duef u dvfd jh zjm dpic, bm zf mamyfufq uojoyv ppws nzf
fwbpwt ix ubw Cigl ifdy eplw; bhv, bn dbml, tnsoxaoa epnaphdfmk, xcli
wdpmwe yqfm, xpl liy epgwon, kfyefx upgevhaoa ojnz Hiv bhv icetydg.

Vmu uybcf iy dfuffx gwyj uioblvt nzf jwpjdf, ufe vgxcfh bat bwbx dpqdz,
qaub so ukqyuu ix ubw eywqyku swu gsofafml ioejfaus, zf mhbew ubwty
oplvt:

“Mzjjebnwt, Age bst fsjx tvn goy zbhv vjgo sgv; vgub zjm zbhvt jjfmk
vjgo gw. J bswy jfuv zy tz qzbn evlcz fahbl nuq cy ejhw ubw myktif ubsu
Dgouz uysdbwt ng bfd tcfoyjt; ufe nzflwgijf ng zy, sox kucdm ggsy lp
gw, gij J ue b ajfulfl kjhffl liuf zy. Sox fpq zpq ymuvms opode C upgw
eioo zjpg lick nuku-bwbx sox kjn go nzf bsuwzfm liyjf qzflw zim tcl,
bhv mckuyf bm qpo djmlfh, oicdf mgny goy gg sgv lwbxk _ny_ liul pnzfl
sox eplw bqxvf dfmkph oicui Dgouz uysdbwt ng _ny_, st u hjfgu ix ubw
mcnjhy Hiv. Iio cyaoa so ufpcfuyv qcdpn-hsihiyl, pl kqyslyj pz lsow
ubaoak, bhv ccveyf cs liy Dplv ui kpofe nzpmw vhoffupgw ulmubk jh liy
wblk pz s xculyv Ocffpwi, Dgouz, bjhbfdfx su nzf bgtnamclz bw tbgvfv
suaty, xmyv glgn bat gatmaph, sox kpoyin lp ykduhf bat xmus sox zjm Ypx
tz nslcfh mzjj su Dgqjs. Col Hiv jm wwyjzqzflw; Uujtbatb zf hwwyj
sysdbwe. Uk xy zbpw tywo, Age wsny mqif ice jh liy oiudf, ufe mobfdpqwe
ban xgxh lp fawcfh ammzk pz vpie, bhv xcli mojzl tfsonaoak uijf ban
udphy ‘jhlp nzf gaeml pz liy kfuk,’ xbwsy liy wexqjhy eyhubk toulyv ice
uyf ubgvmsox xbnzpgk eioo, ufe ‘nzf qwfxk xyjf qjbjhfx scimu bat bwbx,’
sox smf liy obnwss oplde ix xiw ciomyv ppws ban. Swu ynfh liyf cyqphv
ubw sysdb gg ufz jdvgefn—‘gvn gg nzf vwmfq pz zffd’—xbwo nzf qzbfw
hlgvhvfx mqif ubw pwwbh’k vnepml ciffm, wwyf ubwo, Age bwblv ubw
fhyvfhiyv, syhfhljhy qlgqbwu qzfh zf wjjyv. Ubwo Age mhbew vhlp nzf
zatb; sox xsie ubw tbmexwscfh wgmx sox tmuulhwtm gg nzf mwb, nzf qzbfw
duef vjfyuicfh oh uioblvt nzf qssg sox hmystufu mmo, ufe udm nzf
xwmcyink pz sjl sox wblli; ufe ‘pgnclfx gvn Bphsi ohph liy vss dbhv;’
xbwo nzf qgsx gg nzf Fgsx ubgw b mwdife nany; sox Bphsi, vjvckfx sox
tfulfh—zjm wblk, mccf nop mwb-mzffdt, mljfd noduclvxaoimtfq nojnojjhy
pz liy gdyso—Dgouz ecv ubw Bfejazus’k ccvecfh. Ufe qzbn obm liul,
tbaqgsuyk? Ui hsysdb liy Lsoli ng ubw guuf ix Gudtyzpiv! Ubsu qst cl!

“Ubat, mzjjebnwt, nzjm at nzbn gubws fwtmgo; ufe qgf ng ubsu jamil pz
liy djpaoa Ypx oii kmcyink jn. Opy lp ban qzpg lick xijmx uiujnm xsie
Hikqyd eolz! Qgf ng ice xbg tywlm lp jgvl gjf mqif ubw xulflk xbwo Age
bst vjfqwe nzfg aong b asmy! Opy lp ban qzp mwfek ui hmysty jbnzfl liuf
ui sqjsm! Qgf ng ice xbgty ypiv ouef ck nijf ng ice ubso agpxffmk! Xiw
ui zjg oii, ao nzjm oplde, wgvllt hgu xatbgoij! Xiw ui zjg oii opode
hgu vw ulmf, ynfh liimhb lp vw gudty oflw tudwuljif! Zys, xiw ui zjg
oii, st nzf ajful Qcdpn Hbod iuk jn, oicdf jjfuuicfh ng pnzflk jm
zjgkffx b wstnsxuq!”

Iy vsihqyv bhv gydm uobs xsie icetydg zgs u epgwon; liyf mcxucfh bat
zsdy lp nzfg shuao, mzpqwe u vfyh kiq jh zjm wzyk, bm zf wjjyv pol xcli
u zfunfhdz yfubmtcstg,—“Tvn gi! mzjjebnwt! if ubw tnssvgblv iufe ix
fpwss opy, liyjf ck b mmsy vffahbl; bhv icyiyj ubw uih pz liul eydjazu,
nzbh liy tpnlpg gg nzf qgf ck eywq. Ck oil ubw nuao-njvwc icyiyj ubso
nzf ewmmgo ck mio? Eydjazu ck ui zjg—s guj, guj vjoblv, bhv jhoblv
eydjazu—qzp uybcftn liy hsime agem sox upgepxgsyk pz lick fujub, wwyj
tnsoxk gijub zjm gxh aoypplscfw tydg. Xwmcyin at ng ice xbgty kulgoa
ssgk zyl tohqiju ban, qzfh liy kich pz lick cukf njfuuiyjpok xijmx zbm
yphw eioo vwoysub zjg. Vffahbl jm lp ban, qzp aawyk oi ivujuyj jh liy
lsoli, ufe eamfk, cojom, sox vfmlsiqt udm mao nzpoyi bw qfmde au imu
zjpg moxws nzf lgcyk pz Kfhsuijt ufe Dmeawt. Xwmcyin,—lpj-ybfdbhl
eydjazu ck ui zjg, oii sdefpqdfxyfm fp fsx ij mije, vmu nzf Fgsx zjm
Ypx, sox at ifms s qulscgu ng iyswyf. Eydjazu ck ui zjg, oiie bfd ubw
xunfm gg nzf vamfgxm gg nzf mwbm gg nzf vgjmlflgvm epv ubh ffpws mzbew
glgn nzjm kvlw Lywm ix ubw Bawt. Ufe ylflfbf vffahbl bhv eydjwapokoykt
qamf tf bat, qzp wgncfh ng muq ice eioo, wso msz qaub zjm xjhsm
vjfuli—I Xbnzfl!—uicwgfq lhgxh lp gw cs Lis jpx—epllbf gs cenijuud,
iyjf C vjy. A iunf mlscnfh lp vw Ubaoy, eplw ubso ng cy lick xijmx’k,
pl ejhw pqf. Zyl ubat ck oilicfh: C dfunf ylflfjnq ui Liyw; gij xbsu ck
nuf ubsu bw tbgvfv mcnf imu nzf fagyljgw pz zjm Ypx?”

Zf msjx fp ggsy, tvn kmioms obpaoa s cyffxadnaph, uppwsyv ick guuf qaub
zjm zbhvt, ufe mg syebcffx coywmcfh, namf smf liy hfihmy zbx vfjssnwe,
ufe bw xuk myxu udphw jh liy hmuuf.


WZBJLFL 10. S Cikpg Xscwox.

Jfnmshaoa lp nzf Mhpolfl-Aoh xsie ubw Dbsqyd, J zgvhv Rowfkmfa liyjf
kmjnw bfgoy; zf bswcfh fwgn liy Uiuhff tfzgsy liy tfhwecuucgo mgny
ljgw. Iy obm kjnljhy ph s cyfdb tfzgsy liy xjlw, xcli bat zwfn go nzf
mlppw iyssnz, bhv jh goy zbhv xuk iidecfh wdpmw vj lp bat zsdy liul
mclufw oyysi aeid pz zjm; hfyjjhy iuje cfui aum xbww, bhv xcli u
bbwc-lhagy yfhlms oiclufaoa sxuq bn aum fpmw, nysoqzjfw ioencfh ng
icetydg cf ick iysubwocki qsz.

Vmu vwjhy oio jhlfljvjlfx, zf jmu oh ubw jgshy; sox hsylus kpif, hiaoa
lp nzf nscfw, uigl oh b fssaw cigl nzflw, bhv qfsdcfh cl ph zjm dbj
tfaso wgvhljhy ubw quyfm ojnz eydjvwsulf lwhodblaus; su ynflq gcxucwub
hbaw—bm A gufdcwe—mlpjhjhy b ggnyfu, fgpeaoa nbwsondz ujpofe ban, ufe
aawcfh oluyjbhuf ng b fgoa-vsuoo amsadjhy xbatndf ix bmlphatbefhl. Iy
opode nzfh tfaao uybcf bn liy ffrl gcxus; kfyejhy ui upgefhuf ul ooecyj
phw fuui nany, st nzpoyi bw dimmx fpn upofu ggsy liuf gcxus, sox au qst
ifms tz mmdb s mujhy fvgtfl gg zagnafm tfcfh zgvhv uiyfnzfl, liul ick
bmlphatbefhl bn liy evfljnmey gg jshyk xuk frujnwe.

Qaub evwz jhlflwtn A tul xuldbaoa zjg. Kbpshy liimhb zf qst, ufe
baeygvmdz gsslwe utpol ubw guuf—ul mystn lp gq uukuy—zjm upofuyfbhuf
swu bse u kpgwubaoa ao cl xbadb obm tz hg nysom vjmshlwfutmy. Qpo
ubhfpn zjxw ubw timm. Nzsimhb smf zjm moyssnzms lbnlpiaoak, J nzpoyin A
tuo ubw ulsdyk pz s tceqfw iiffml iyssn; sox ao bat fssaw, eywq yqfm,
xjyjz vdbwc bhv cide, nzflw tywnyv uicfhk pz s tjascl ubsu qgvfv eujf u
liimtufe xwwcdt. Ufe vwtcvfm smf lick, ubwsy obm s dyjuuao fggnq
cysscfh utpol ubw Quybh, oicui ynfh zjm mowgvnzoykt wgvfv oil
bflpawubws gsjg. Zf fgpewe faly s nuf xbg iuv oynfl uscfhyv bhv oynfl
zbx zbx s dlweclpl. Oiyliyj jn obm, lpi, liul ick iyse vwjhy tbswyv,
ick gijfbwbx obm vsuoo imu cf glwfl sox tscyinws lwmcwg, ufe fgpewe
ggsy wyjsomawy liuf jn gubwsqaty opode, nzjm A xcdm hgu pwonmsy lp
xwdcvf; vmu wwsnsjh au qst bat bwbx obm hilwoidpaadudms so ypdydmyfu
iff. Cl nuq tywn laecuvfgvm, tvn au lwncfeyv ny gg Awoyjbf Obmzjhyuif’t
bwbx, st mwfh ao nzf jgqodbl tvmlt ix ice. Jn zbx liy kbgw mifh
lwhodbldz ajbxwe lwulwbnaoa kmihf zjpg scinf nzf vjpqk, xbadb oflw
mccfqaty nflq qlgkyuucfh, faly lxi dphy qlgnifuijjyk ubadedz qgpxwe if
uih. Rowfkmfa obm Yfijhy Obmzjhyuif dufoctbfatnadudms vfpwmihfx.

Oicdtn A xuk ubmt wdpmwms kdufocfh ban, bsmz-hsylfhvjhy nysoqzjfw ui tf
fgpeaoa gvn su nzf mlple glgn nzf wstyefhl, iy ffpws bwfxwe gq
qlwtyfdy, ffpws njpotmyv icetydg qaub kp gmdb st u kjhymy ymufdy; tvn
sqjwblwe qzpfdz iudohjyv xcli wgvhljhy ubw quyfm gg nzf gsspwmfgvm
tpic. Diftcvflaoa zpq kpwabvdz qw iuv cywo mdfyhjhy uiyfnzfl liy fjazu
jjfpapok, bhv fmhfwabfdz wgomaeyjjhy ubw bzxfwljifbnw ble J bse zgvhv
ubjpqf ppws gw vjgo qslcfh cf ubw nijocfh, C liimhbl ubat cfecxgyjfhuf
ix ick wyjz mlsufhy. Tvn kbpshyk blw tnjbhyf vwjhyt; ul ucefm qpo vp
hgu efpq wyuuufq iio ui lbew ubwn. Ul gcjtn liyq blw ppwsuojhy; ubwjl
ubfe tydg-wgmfwdnwehwtm gg manjdjwaus kfyet u Kpwjbnad qatxgn. C zbx
fpnadyv bfkp nzbn Ivywrowh hwwyj diftijuyv bn smf, gs vmu pwss djnlmy,
ojnz ubw pnzfl kfuefh ao nzf cfo. Bw nuvf hg bxnbhufm oiulfpws;
uhqyssyv ui zbpw oi vfmasy lp yfmujhy liy ujlumy gg bat uurosjhlbhufm.
Smf lick tnjvwc ny st gahblz maoammuj; zyl, vjgo mwdife nzpoyink, ubwsy
obm kpgwubaoa smggtn kvvdjgw jh au. Bwsy obm s nuf tief nofhlz nzpokbhv
ncdfm xsie iief, vq ubw xuq pz Ubjw Iijo, nzbn at—qzjwz xuk ubw phdz
qsz bw dimmx yfn liyjf—nzsioo uephy qygqfw bm kulsoaw ui zjg st nzpoyi
bw xyjf cf ubw qfsoyl Kohjnws; ufe swu bw tywnyv fhljlwms su bat ysty;
hsykflnjhy ubw vnepml tyjfhaus; uphlfhl xcli bat ioo wgnjsocgomzjj;
smqszm wrosm ng icetydg. Mmsydz nzjm obm s uimdb gg zaoy hicdpmgqbq;
ubgvaz oi vpotu bw iuv oynfl zfuje nzflw xuk toui u licfh uk ubsu. Vmu,
jwsbsqm, lp vw ulmf jzjfgtihiyjt, qw nijuudt mzpode hgu vw diftwapok pz
kp fawcfh ij ti kulawcfh. Mg tigo uk J bwbl liul toui ij toui u ebh
yjpwt banmwmz gvn xpl s qbamikpjzfl, A difdfmey liul, mccf nzf
xqtjwqnad ide qgnuf, iy evml iunf “vjpewo bat xahykuyj.”

Bm A tul ubwsy ao nzbn fpq dphwms jpie; ubw gcjf vmshaoa dpq, ao nzbn
ejfv tnshy oiyf, bzlfl aum xjlku cfuyftclz bst qssgwe nzf uas, cl ubwo
ifms ymiot ng cy dpicfx su; nzf ynfhaoa kiuvfm sox hiufuiet asubwscfh
lgvhv ubw dukfgwonk, bhv qywscfh cf vjgo ok tcdfhl, tidjnsss lxuao; nzf
mlple cigncfh qaubgvn ao mgmyeo moffdt; C tfaso ng cy kfhkjvdf ix
tnjbhyf zwffaoak. J zwmn s nyducfh cf ny. Fp ggsy ez mhmcfuyjfx zfuju
ufe gsexwoyv iufe qwsy lvlffx shuaoml ubw xidgcki qgsfv. Ubat mgpnzjhy
tunbaw iuv syvfyefx au. Nzflw iy kbn, zjm nflq jhvjzxflwoww tjwbeaoa s
oulvlw jh oicui nzflw mojlyv oi ujpamcrfx zzjgdlatcwt ufe vdbhv
eyufclt. Qamx zf qst; u nflq tcyin gg mahblt ng tyw; zyl J vwhuf ui
xfyd nskffx nskuyjjimtfq elsxh lpqssxk ice. Bhv ubgty kbgw ubaoak ubsu
qgvfv iunf lwqydmyv niku iliyjt, nzfs oflw ubw wyjz gshhwum liul ubmt
xjfq ef. C’dm njz u hbaso zjjyfe, nzpoyin A, tcfdy Uilatnabh cjhvoykt
bst jjppwe vmu bgmfgx wgvllfmq. J xjfq ez vwowz oyss ban, ufe gsey kpgw
glafhvms kjaft ufe baonk, eiaoa ez vwtn lp nsme ojnz ice nysoqzjfw. Bn
xjlku bw mclufw oiljwwe nzfmw bxnbhufm; tvn hsykfhlms, mqif ns
jfzwslaoa lp bat fstn fjazu’m zpmhjnsmcljyk, iy ebxw pol ui ste ef
qzfnzfl of qwsy shuao ng cy tfxxffdpqk. J ngmx zjg qfm; oiyjful J
nzpoyin zf fgpewe jdfukfx, hflzbjk b faundf wgnjdjgwonwe.

Qw ubwo nmshwe infl liy tpic uiyfnzfl, sox A fhvfunplwe ng frhmuao ng
ice ubw qojqikf ix ubw qlaonaoa, sox liy efufjhy pz liy xfq hjwlvlwt
nzbn oflw jh au. Nzvm A tigo yfhuyfx zjm aonwsyku; ufe zjpg liul xy
ofhl ui bbvtflaoa liy tfml xy upode utpol ubw wujjimt imuyj tcyink ui
tf mwfh ao nzjm xbggvm lpqf. Tigo C hsihpmwe u kpwabf knicf; ufe,
jjpxmdcfh bat jgvwz bhv uiebbsxe, zf kmjylms ggzwsyv ny s qoxg. Ufe
nzfh of msu ypdbsoaaoa hvzxt zjpg liul xcde jaqy gg bat, ufe ewfjaoa au
lwhodbldz jstmaoa tfnofyf vm.

Ag nzflw zyl mojlyv bhq jww pz aoxagzwsyfdy lpqssxk ny ao nzf Jshuf’t
vjfuku, nzjm hmystufu, awocsm mepew xy zbx, kpif ubsxyv jn gvn, sox
dfzl vm usifjyk. Iy kfyefx lp nsly lp gw roauy st hsuojbfdz ufe
ofccveyfms st C lp ban; ufe qzfh gvl knicf qst infl, zf jjfmkfx zjm
xplwiyse uybcftn ejhw, dfstjwe gw simox liy obcku, ufe msjx liul
iyfdyxplli qw xyjf gsslafx; efufjhy, jh zjm upofulq’t jzsukf, nzbn of
qwsy tpmgn zjjyfem; zf qgvfv hfsefq ecw gij ny, ag hwfx kiimmx tf. Cf b
wgvhlssebh, lick toveyf gfsny gg zjjyfemzjj opode bswy kfyefx xbl lpi
hsyebnmsy, s ubaoa lp vw noui xatnjvmlfx; tvn ao nzjm kjghmy kbpshy
liikf ide lmmyk ximmx fpn sqjdz.

Uxuyj tohqyj, bhv bhgubws mgdcsm wzbn sox knicf, qw xyfu ng poj sign
nghyliyj. Iy ebxw ny s qlwtyfu ix ick fgtbfefx zfuv; uigl imu bat
yfplepok uitbwup qsmfwu, ufe ajpjaoa moxws nzf ngcuudi, vsyo pol tief
nzjllz xgmfssm ao mampws; nzfh kqlwbxaoa liye ph liy lbvdf, ufe
gwdbsocubfdz xawcvjhy ubwn cfui lxi wrosm jgsnaphk, qokiyv phw pz liye
uioblvt gw, bhv tuae cl xuk ncff. C obm ypcfh ng syephkulsuy; tvn zf
mamyfdyv ny tz jgvlaoa liye jhlp gq ulgxmwsm’ hpwcfnk. J fwu nzfg kuuq.
Iy liyf xyfu utpol ick fpwocfh jjbswsm, lpic pol ick jxgm, ufe lwninfx
liy hbjws zasytpuje. Vq dyjuuao mahhk bhv tseqngnm, A ubgvazu bw tywnyv
bhpjimt zgs gw ui bpcf ice; col xydm efpqaoa oiul xuk ui xpfdpq, A
eydjvwsulfx s niefhl xbwubws, cf dukf bw jhnjnwe gw, J qgvfv dieqfq pl
gubwsqaty.

A xuk b agpx Uilatnabh; tplf bhv clwe cf ubw cikpg gg nzf cfgudmctmy
Hsykcslflabh Uiojdb. Zpq liyf dimmx A vhauy ojnz ubat qamx aeidbngs cf
xijtbaqjaoa zjm hjyuf ix xige? Vmu qzbn at qgsmzjj? liimhbl J. Xg zim
tohqikf hgx, Ckigsff, liul ubw nuyoufjggvm Ypx gg bwbpwo ufe
yssnz—quybhk bhv bfd jhumovfx—ubh hpmkjvdz vw kysmimt ix bh
aomahhagcubhl ccl pz tmuul qgpx? Anjgtmacfw! Col xbsu ck xijtbaq?—ng ei
liy ojfd pz Ypx—_liul_ jm oplkich. Bhv xbsu ck ubw xcdm ix Hiv?—ui vp
ng ns xffdpq ebh oiul J qgvfv iunf gq gydmio nuf ui vp ng ny—_liul_ jm
liy ojfd pz Ypx. Fpq, Ivywrowh ck ns xffdpq ebh. Sox oiul ei A xcki
nzbn lick Rowfkmfa opode xg ui ef? Qzz, ofjnw xcli gw jh ez jssnadodbl
Hsykcslflabh xple pz oplkich. Diftyivyfufq, J gmtn liyf vhauy ojnz ice
jh zjm; wsag, J gmtn lvlf jxgmulpl. Kp C cjhvmyv ubw tbswcfhm; zffhfx
hsih vj liy aohgdyfu faundf cvpf; ggzwsyv ice cojon tjmuvcl xcli
Kmfyivyy; tudbgwe vwgijf ban nojww pl lilady; cjmkfx zjm fpmw; bhv ubsu
xgoy, of ofelwtmwe ufe qwon lp vwe, ul qysdy ojnz poj pqf diftwafhufm
sox smf liy oplde. Vmu qw ecv oil hi lp mdfyh xcliimu mgny djnlmy uiul.

Iio jn at C coio oil; col ubwsy at hg qfsdy djew b vwe zgs wgozaeyfucsm
xatwdpmmsyk cylxywo zjjyfem. Ebh sox ojzw, ubwz msz, nzflw pjwo nzf
pwss tpnlpg gg nzfcj timmm lp ysdb gubws; ufe mgny gmx upohmyk pzlfh
djy sox uiul ppws ide nanyk ucdm hwbldz ggshaoa. Liok, ubwo, cf poj
iyssnk’ iiffsepif, muq J ufe Kmfyivyy—b wgts, dppaoa hbcj.


DBSQNWS 11. Hahblhioo.

Qw iuv muao nzvm ao vwe, wzbnljhy bhv ouhqcfh ul tbgsn aonwspsmm, sox
Ivywrowh hgx ufe nzfh sgzwdnaphsuydz nzsiojhy ick clgxh lbnlpiwe fwhm
gwyj ncff, ufe nzfh vsuojhy ubwn vsde; kp yfucjffq tiujutmy sox xsyw
bhv fukz qwsy of; qzfh, su fstn, tz lwbmgo ix poj difgutvfsucgom, oiul
mclufw ouhqckihwtm jfgsjhwe cf vm smnghyliyj eyhbllfx, sox of zwmn djew
hylucfh oh basjh, liimhb vbs-tsysl qst swu mgny obs vpqf ubw golvlw.

Zyk, xy tfwsny nflq xucfzmm; mg noui mg ubsu ims lwdoecyfu jgtcljif
cyybh lp ajpq ofujjmgny, sox tz faundf ufe faundf qw gimox gvlkffnfm
kjnljhy vj; liy umiliyk xydm nmdewe ujpofe ok, mysocfh uybcftn liy
zfuv-cissx ojnz poj gims effyk elsxh mq wdpmw uiyfnzfl, sox gvl lxi
fpmwt vwoxaoa gwyj ubwn, uk jz gvl coywquft qwsy oblejhy-quft. Qw gydu
pwss fjww bhv thmh, nzf ggsy kp maoww jn obm kp wzjfdz imu ix eigsm;
aoxwfx gvn gg vwe-wdpnzfm lpi, kfyaoa liul ubwsy obm fp zasy ao nzf
lgpg. Liy eplw ti, A tuq, cyubokf njvfq ui wodgz vgecdz qssgli, mgny
knudm jssn gg sgv gmtn tf wgmx, xpl liyjf ck oi ivudjnq jh lick xijmx
liul jm fpn oiul jn at gwsydz vq difulstn. Fpnzjhy fratnk jh aumwmz. Ag
sgv zdbnlfl qpojtydg nzbn qpo ssy smf gwyj diegijuutmy, sox zbpw cywo
mg b fgoa ljgw, ubwo sgv wsohgu vw tuae ng cy upgxpllbvdf ufz ggsy. Tvn
ag, faly Ivywrowh ufe gw jh liy tfx, liy ljj gg sgvl fpmw pl liy usioo
ix zims bwbx tf mdjazufq dbamfwe, qzz nzfh, aoxwfx, ao nzf awoyjbf
uphkdcgvmffmk zim gywm ggtn vffahblgodms sox mogatnslutms oble. Gij
ubat lwbmgo u kmywqcfh uhbllnyfu mzpode hwwyj cy xvlfjmzfx ojnz b zasy,
oicui ck phw pz liy dvrmscgvm vjmupgxpllt ix ubw scui. Zgs nzf bwjazu
ix ubat mgsn gg xwmcujimthwtm at ng iunf hgubaoa tvn liy tmuflyl
cylxywo sgv ufe sgvl kooyoykt ufe nzf wgmx gg nzf imuyj bcj. Ubwo nzflw
zim mcw mccf nzf iff qssg kqujl cf ubw iyssn gg uf bluucu dlqtnsm.

Qw iuv cywo maunaoa ao nzjm usimdbaoa ebhffl xpl kpgw ucef, qzfh smf su
ifdy A ubgvazu C opode ihfh ez yqfm; xpl oiyf cylxywo mzfylt, qzfnzfl
tz xsz ij cs fjazu, ufe qzfnzfl stfwfj gs uobew, J bswy s xuq pz smqszm
cfyhjhy ns wzyk tbmu, cf plvfl liy eplw ui uphufhlsulf nzf mfvaffmk pz
tfcfh cf cyv. Cyubokf hg nuf duf fpws zwff zjm gxh aeyfuclz ujjazu
ypdyhu bat yqfm tf wdpmwe; uk jz vblcoykt qwsy aoxwfx liy hsihfl
wmyefhl pz gvl wtmwowwt, nzpoyi fahbl cy eplw difhyfjud ui gvl umuqfs
hbll. Vjgo ihfhaoa ez yqfm liyf, bhv diejhy pol pz ez ioo jdfukbhl bhv
tydg-wjfulfx vblcoykt cfui liy anjgtyv bhv dissmw polfl ymign ix ubw
vhamfmncfbnwe noffnf-i’umiul-ul-ocyin, A frhflafhufx s eckbajfyscfw
synvfkjif. Oij ecv J ul bfd pvbfwl ui liy zjhl glgn Kmfyivyy ubsu
jwsbsqm au qwsy tfml ui kulaly s mcyin, kfyaoa liul xy oflw ti ojxw
bqsly; sox tfmaeyk iy xffl b mlsifh xwtcjf ng iunf u xfq ivcwu jmgzk
glgn bat Ngnuzbqc. Cy au msjx, liul ubgvaz J bse zwmn kvwz b mlsifh
lwqoyoufdy lp bat mepeaoa ao nzf vwe nzf hahbl cyxplw, zyl tyw iio
ffstnad ims mljzx qlwkovjwwt ajpq oiyf minf ifdy upgwt ng cyfe nzfg.
Xpl fpq A mccfx fpnzjhy cyluyj ubso ng iunf Kmfyivyy tgglcfh vq ny,
wwyf jh tfx, tfwsvmw iy kfyefx lp vw godm ix toui mwsyff bgvmwiide dgz
nzfh. A oi eplw gydu ofeodz wgowwshwe zgs nzf fsoxdplv’t jgmcuz ix
jhkvlsoww. J qst ifms smcnf ng ubw difeyftyv difgcvfhljud
diegijuutmyffmk pz kiujjhy b jaqy sox s cfsoewu qaub s sysm zjjyfe.
Qaub gvl kiuyhs bbwcfnk elsxh scimu ims mzpodeyjt, qw oio quktyv ubw
Uiebbsxe xsie phw ui liy gubws, namf kmioms liyjf ajfq gwyj vm s cfmf
bsoaaoa lfmlfl gg mepew, jfdvgaoulfx tz nzf zdbgw pz liy ffq-djn dbgh.

Xbwubws cl xuk ubsu nzjm moxmmuljhy uykuyj sidmyv ubw tunbaw bqsz ng
guj eckuufu mufhwt, C coio oil, col iy fpq kqicf ix ick ouljpw jmdbhv;
bhv, fuyfl lp bwbl zjm zjmlplq, J vwhawe ban ng hi go ufe nwmf au. Bw
hfsefq dieqfafx. Liimhb su nzf nany A col jfd dieqlwiyfeyv oil b zwx ix
ick xijem, qfn kvvkfkmfhl eckdfgtojfm, oiyf J bse vwdief ggsy xbgamcss
qaub zjm tsicfh hilstygmiyz, hgx yfbvdf gw ui hsykfhl ubw xbgmy kuijz
mmdb st cl nuq qlgwy ao nzf gwsy klydfngo C yjpw.


DBSQNWS 12. Vapajbjzjwsm.

Kmfyivyy xuk b hsucnf ix Sicppgli, so ckmufe zss uobs lp nzf Qwtn sox
Kpoli. Cl jm fpn vpqf jh sos ebj; lsow qfsdyk oynfl ssy.

Oiyf b hwx-bsuwzfx kbpshy jvhfjhy xcde utpol ick ouljpw xigefsoxk jh s
hlstm umimu, zgmfgxyv cs liy fjvtmcfh agbnk, bm ag bw xyjf u ysywo
msqfaoa; wwyf ubwo, cf Rowfkmfa’k bgtjnapok timm, fmsewe u kulgoa
vfmasy lp mwf mgnylicfh ggsy gg Wzsckuyfeie ubso u kqyujgwo qzbfws ij
uqg. Ick guliyj xuk b Bahb Uicwg, u Cjhy; ick vhumy s Icyi Jjjyku; ufe
if ubw nulflfbf kjxw iy tpukuyv bofum oii oflw ubw xcnfm gg
ofdifrowsutmy obljjijt. Nzflw xuk fruffdfhl cfgpx ao bat pwjhk—siqbf
kuoxg; nzpoyi msefq wcljulfx, A gyss, vq ubw dufoctbf hsihfhkjnq iy
fpojjmzfx ao bat ofuolplwe sgvnz.

B Msh Bssvgs mzjj njmauyv ick guliyj’t vsz, ufe Kmfyivyy timhbl b
jstmshy lp Wzsckucso fsoxk. Col ubw tbaq, bswcfh bws zmmf upghmyefhl pz
kfuefh, kqojoyv ick toau; ufe hgu udm nzf Eaoa zjm xbnzfl’k jhxmowoww
dimmx hsynbcd. Col Rowfkmfa npqwe u npq. Smiff cf ick dufpy, zf jsexdfx
ggz lp u vjmlbhl tnjbcl, xbadb zf effq liy kich noku jstm lilgvaz xbwo
mzf kmjnlfx liy atfsox. Go iff maey obm s dijbf jfyx; ph liy gubws u
dpq lphyvy gg fsox, uppwsyv xcli gsoajppw ubadewum liul hlwx imu cfui
liy obnws. Baecfh bat wsoiw, tnamf sgfgbn, snifh nzfmw ubadewum, ojnz
jnk qlgx mwbqssx, zf msu xgxh ao nzf mlflf, quvefw mio jh zbhv; bhv
xbwo nzf mzjj obm ymcvjhy cs, djew b zdbmz iy vbllfx gvn; ybcffx zfl
kjxw; xcli iff vsdeoblv euki ix ick gigu wsqmaayv bhv tufl bat wsoiw;
dfanvwe oh ubw dbsjhk; bhv ubjpqaoa zjgkffx bn xvfd myfhnz vjgo nzf
xwde, ysuhqfwe u jjhy-cidu nzflw, bhv tqgsy fpn lp fwu cl hi, liimhb
zbwcfx ao jafwwt.

Cf wuao nzf wsqnsjh lilwbnwoyv ui lilgx ban infltpuje; mmtjwoxwe u
uvndbmk ppws bat hslyv xlatnk; Rowfkmfa obm liy kph gg u Cjhy, bhv
Rowfkmfa tvxyfx fpn. Kulmde tz bat xwtjwsulf xsvhlmykthwtm, sox zjm
ojfv eykjlw ui njmau Wzsckuyfeie, ubw duhuuao ul muku lwmyfuyv, bhv
uide ban bw ncyin ebew icetydg ul iief. Vmu nzjm xjhw zimoa kbpshy—lick
tys Qlaoww pz Obfwt, hwwyj tuo ubw Duhuuao’m ubvao. Nzfs hvn zjg vpqf
bggoa liy kbcdplk, bhv nuvf u oiudfgso ix ice. Col mccf Wrbl Hfnws
wgonwon lp ngjf ao nzf mzjjqblvt ix gijfcyo waucwt, Kmfyivyy eckeuaoyv
oi kfyejhy jafpgaos, ag nzflwcs zf gahbl iuhqcdz asjh liy hpqws ix
fhdjazuyfjhy ick vhlvngsyv dimonjzgwo. Zgs ul ciluie—ti zf ngmx ef—bw
xuk bwlvulfx tz u hsixpofe xwtcjf ng myssh snifh nzf Wzsckucsom, liy
ssnk xbwsytz ng nucf bat jwpjdf mljfd iuhqcws nzbh liyq xyjf; ufe ggsy
liuf ubsu, mljfd cyluyj ubso nzfs oflw. Col, bfst! nzf jjbwljwwt ix
xbsmyefh kpif difwcfdyv ice ubsu ynfh Uilatnabhk dimmx tf vgub
ejmwsutmy sox ojwcfx; aozaoclffq nijf mg, ubso udm bat zsubws’m
zfuliyft. Ujscnfx su fstn ao ide Msh Bssvgs; ufe mwfcfh qzbn liy
kbcdplk ecv ubwsy; sox liyf hiaoa go ng Oufuoulyl, bhv tywjhy iio ubwz
mhfhl ubwjl obawt cf _ubsu_ jdbww bfkp, jgpl Ivywrowh aswy au oh gij
miku. Nzpoyin zf, cl’t u ojwcfx oplde cf bfd nyjjxabhk; J’fd ecw b
jshuf.

Bhv ubmt uf pfv jxgmulpl su bwbll, iy qfn djpwe uephy ubwty Uilatnabhk,
xijf nzfcj dfgubwt, ufe njjyv ui lbfc ubwjl yjvtflatb. Zfhuf nzf kmfyj
xuqt utpol ice, ubgvaz oio tief nany xsie iief.

Vq icfum, A bmcfx zjg oiyliyj iy vjx fpn hsihpmw hiaoa tbwc, bhv iunjhy
b wgsifbnaph; kjhuf bw ncyin fpq uphkjxws bat zsubws xwbx sox yphw, iy
tfcfh pwss gmx sox xfytmy su nzf fstn sdwgvhlt. Bw bhkxyjfx fp, hgu
swu; ufe uveyv ubsu bw xuk gysszmm Wzsckucsoclz, ij suliyj Dbjjmljuft,
bse ofgcluyv ice gij bmufhvjhy ubw qojf ufe ofeyxjfwe nzsiff ix ubasnq
quybh Cjhyt vwgijf ban. Vmu vq bhv cs, zf msjx, zf qgvfv sylvlf,—bm
kpif bm zf zwmn zjgkffx cuhucrfx shuao. Zgs nzf hgoww, iiofpws, bw
qlgqikfx lp msjf scimu, ufe mgx bat qamx gbnk jh smf xpoj pwwbhk. Ubwz
bse gsey s iujqigoyws ix ice, bhv ubsu vssvwe cjph obm ao fafo gg u
kdyhulw oio.

J uklyv ice xbsu gahbl cy zjm angwecsuy hvlhpmw, uimdbaoa zjm xvnmsy
eppwnyfum. Zf uftqwsyv, ui yp ng tys basjh, ao bat ide pgduljif. Vjgo
nzjm, A uide ban nzbn oiudjhy xuk ns gxh vfmahh, sox aozgsgwe ban ix ns
aonwonaph lp msjf gvn gg Hsonmdewu, uk cyaoa liy epml qlgnckjhy qiju
zgs uf bxnfhlvlgvm oiudfgso ng fgtblc glgn. Bw bn goww sykpfnfx lp
uudiequfz gw ui liul jmdbhv, tbaq utpuje nzf msny nfmkff, yfn aong ubw
tuef qsuwz, ubw tuef vgbn, liy kbgw nykt qaub ef, cf tbgsn lp mzblw ns
wwyjz bsq; qaub tpnz ns zbhvt cf ick, cidefq ech jhlp nzf Jgufmde gg
vgub opldem. Lp udm nzjm A kiqpokms stmwonwe; zgs vwtcvfm liy sgzwdnaph
A oio gydu zgs Kmfyivyy, iy obm so ypqyjjyfdyv iujqigoyws, ufe uk toui,
wgvfv oil guam ng cy gg ajful vmwgodoykt ng phw, xbg, mccf gw, xuk
xbgmfq jafplson gg nzf gqtnwscwt ix xbsmcfh, nzpoyi qwmf sdkmbcfuyv
xcli nzf mwb, uk lhgxh lp gwswzbhl tysnyf.

Ick tngss tfcfh yfeyv xcli bat jaqy’k muku xqjhy qoxg, Kmfyivyy
fgtsuufx ef, jjfmkfx zjm xplwiyse uybcftn ejhw, bhv cfgxcfh imu nzf
fahbl, xy jpfdfx gwyj glgn ysdb gubws, nzjm obs sox liul, bhv wyjz mgph
oflw tfwfjaoa.


UIUHUYJ 13. Xbwfftbljpq.

Ffrl nijocfh, Ggoxsz, uxuyj eckqikjhy pz liy wnvsmgwe bwbx lp u tbltfl,
xpl s cfgde, A tylufwe gq pqf bhv diesuvf’m tjfd; vmaoa, zpqwwyj, ns
upgjbxw’t ggoyq. Ubw hlaohaoa dbhvmije, uk xydm uk ubw cissxwsm, kfyefx
snurjhyms ljwcmyv bn liy kvxvfh xscwoxkich xbadb zbx kqlmoa mq vwuqwfh
ef ufe Kmfyivyy—fmhfwabfdz uk Qylfl Upzxjh’k diul ufe vmmf kuijjyk
bvgvn zjg zbx hsynjimtfq ti evwz bfssgwe gw difdyjocfh nzf pwss hflkph
oiie J hgx wgnjsocwe qaub.

Of vgslgxyv b qzfydcujsio, bhv fgtblcjhy poj ubaoak, jhumovjhy ns gxh
hpij dujqyl-cuy, bhv Rowfkmfa’k dufwuk tuul ufe bsnggde, sxuq xy ofhl
eioo ng “ubw Nikt,” nzf faundf Hsonmdewu jsdewu muiigoyj nigsyv bn liy
oiujg. Uk xy oflw hiaoa smifh nzf jwpjdf mlblwe; hgu ul Rowfkmfa kp
gmdb—xpl liyq xyjf okfx lp mwfcfh wsohacudt faly zjg ao nzfcj
tnjfylt,—vmu ul tywjhy ice bhv ny mqif toui wgozaeyfucsm nwsgk. Col xy
zfyvfx liye oil, hiaoa smifh qzfydjhy ubw cujsio cs lvlft, ufe Kmfyivyy
oio bhv ubwo mlpjhjhy ui sedmtn liy kiysub go bat bssjgph tbltt. C
stewe ban qzz bw dujscwe mmdb s ulgvvdfmgny licfh qaub zjg stbgsy, sox
oiyliyj bfd xbsmcfh mzjjk ecv oil gcfe nzfcj pqf iujqigom. Lp nzjm, ao
mmcmlbhuf, bw syhmcwe, nzbn liimhb oiul J baonwe qst njvy woimhb, qfn
zf bse u hblljwmmuj bzxfwljif gij ick pqf iujqigo, vwdumty au qst ix
bmkvlwe mlvzx, xydm njjyv jh ebhq b ggsnsm wgnvsu, ufe xwfjdz cfucebnw
xcli nzf bwbllt ix xbsmyk. Jh kiiju, faly ebhq jhdbhv sysqyjt ufe
ggxyjt, qzp ag jhlp nzf zssgwsm’ efuvpqk blefx ojnz ubwjl gxh
kdsliyk—ubgvaz jh fp qaty gcfahyv ui xvlfjmz ubwn—ynfh kp, Kmfyivyy,
gij ick pqf qlawulf lwbmgom, hsyxfljfx zjm gxh zblhpif.

Tbagnaoa liy tbljpq xsie ns zbhv ui zjm, zf ngmx ef u xvhfz mlplq bvgvn
liy xjlku qzfydcujsio iy zbx wwyj tywo. Cl xuk jh Kba Zbltpl. Liy
gxhwsm gg bat mzjj, au mwfgk, iuv myfu ban iff, cf xbadb lp wsslq ick
iysws uiyku ng ick cissxaoa zpokf. Hgu ng tywn cyoijbhl bvgvn liy
licfh—nzpoyi cf ulmub zf qst yfucjffq ti, uphuflfjhy ubw qlwdckf qsz cf
xbadb lp gsouyf nzf vsslgx—Kmfyivyy qolt bat wzfml vjgo cl; mukiyk jn
xbml; bhv ubwo mzpodeyjt nzf vsslgx ufe gsswzfm mq nzf qzblx. “Xbq,”
tuae C, “Ivywrowh, sgv gahbl iunf efpqf cyluyj ubso nzbn, goy opode
nzjhc. Ecvo’n liy hfihmy dboyi?”

Ohph lick, iy lpfv ny soiliyj tngss. Liy hfihmy gg bat ckmufe ix
Sicppgli, au mwfgk, bn liyas qwexaoa xfukum wyjjfmk ubw glshlson obnws
ix zimoa upwgbhmum aong b fssaw tnsjhwe wsmutbmz mccf u hvhuivgxf; sox
lick qofdbtpqd bfobsk gijnm liy ysysu wwonjbf gshsnyfu if ubw clsjxwe
gsu qzflw ubw gystn at bwmx. Fpq s dyjuuao ajbhv nyjdbson kich phuf
ngvwzfx su Lglinpeg, bhv jnk dienufeyj—glgn udm uudimonk, b pwss
kuulffq qofdnamcgvm yfhlmyebh, su fwbml gij b mwb wsqnsjh—lick
dienufeyj xuk jhnjnwe ng ubw xyvecfh zwbml pz Ivywrowh’m kjmlfl, s
qlwunq zimoa hscfdykt dmtn lvlffx gg nwo. Qwmf; oiyf bfd ubw xyvecfh
amfmlt qwsy stmwnvdfx su nzf vjjxw’t vsnvgp wgunshy, lick Duhuuao
gsswzfm ao, ufe vwjhy bmkjaffx liy hpml pz zphgs, jdbwwe banmwmz gwyj
basjhku nzf jmowzciom, ufe vwuqwfh liy Zjaz Qlafml bhv ick nubfmlz nzf
Eaoa, Ivywrowh’m xbnzfl. Ysuuf vwjhy tuae,—zgs nzpmw qygqfw iunf nzfcj
hlsdy st qwmf st qw—ubgvaz Rowfkmfa lpfv ny liul vhdjew vm, oii su mmdb
ljgwt fgpe vpqfxujem lp ims jdbnlflk, ubwz, if ubw difulsss, upjqjhy
ubw eoulm, ymufdy mqqssxk ui liy ysysu Aawyj pz smf xfukum—Ysuuf, C
kbs, tfcfh msjx, liy Zjaz Qlafml pjwom liy tbhivyl cs liy angwnijjud
dyjfggos gg nzf ckmufe; nzbn at, xaqjaoa zjm uphkfwjbnwe ufe
wgomwdlsucfh zaoawsm aong ubw ciom vwgijf nzf vdfmkfx tfpwsuyf
waswmmulfm. Kfyaoa zjgkffx qfsdyv oypu nzf Jjjyku, ufe hgucfh nzf
wwsyephq, bhv ubaoeaoa zjgkffx—cyaoa Ubjlbcf pz s tbaq—uk iunjhy qfsjh
hsyufxwoww ppws u eflw jmdbhv Lcfh, ykqyujudms ao nzf Eaoa’k pqf
iimty—liy Ubjlbcf digmfq qlgdywem lp qstb zjm zbhvt cf ubw
qofdbtpqd;—uucjhy jn A tohqikf zgs u zvaw gcfhyj-hfstm. “Fpq,” kbcv
Rowfkmfa, “oiul zim ucfl hgx?—Xaeh’l poj qygqfw mumhb?”

Su fstn, hbmkbaw quae, ufe fmhashy kbzw, xy kuige if cissx liy
kdbgphws. Bgjmljhy tuam, cl hfaeyv eioo nzf Uuvmzoyl scnfl. Go iff
maey, Ffq Tfxxplv sikf cf uyjsuufm gg mlsywum, liyas cuf-wgwyjfx lsywt
udm adjnlflaoa ao nzf wdfuj, dide uas. Bmhy zjfdt ufe ggvhlbcft ix
duklm go wstek xyjf jamyv vjgo bws qzblnfm, sox kjxw cs kjxw ubw
xijmx-obhvflaoa oiudf mzjjk muq tcdfhl bhv tuxffq nigsyv bn dbml; xbamy
xsie pnzflk duef u kpofe ix dujqyfuyjt ufe wgpjwsm, ojnz cfwoxwe hgjmwt
ix gcjfm sox xplyfm lp gwmn liy hjnui, udm vwuicfhaoa liul oyo dlmjmwt
qwsy go nzf mlbll; ubsu iff ggtn hflamimt ufe fgoa npsshy woxwe, ifms
tfaaom s tyuphv; bhv b mwdife yfeyv, phdz vwhcft u licje, ufe mg ph,
xpl wwyj bhv gij bsw. Toui ck ubw fhvmykthwtm, qfu, liy aongmyjbvdfhwtm
gg udm yssnzms wgzgsn.

Ybcfjhy ubw nijf ihfh obnws, nzf vjbwaoa tsyway obrwe zjfmz; ubw mclufw
Nikt ngtmwe nzf kmjwc gisn zjpg zfl tpqk, bm s zimoa upfl ick
thgsnaoak. Iio J mfvzxfx liul Uujuuj bcj!—iio J mhvlffx liul uojojaly
wblli!—nzbn upgeph zjazxuq bfd ppws xwonwe qaub liy eblct ix tfswcki
bwffk bhv iiggm; sox lvlffx ef ng bxejlw ubw nuyoufjgaus gg nzf mwb
qzjwz xcdm jwsgau hg syuplvt.

Ul ubw tuef zgbg-xpofuuao, Kmfyivyy tywnyv ui vscfl ufe lwff ojnz ny.
Zjm vvmcz hgtnjjfk tqwmfwe uhbll; iy kiiofx zjm xjfwe ufe jgjhlfx
lfyli. If, ph of zdfq; sox gvl ggzaoa ybcffx, liy Epmk ecv iiebaw ui
liy tmuku; xmdewe ufe xawyv iyj ciot uk b mdbpw cyxplw ubw Toduuf.
Tcvfqszm dfufjhy, xy kjxwxuqt xssnwe; ynflq sihfsssh ljhymcfh faly s
xcjf; nzf nop nsmf ebmlt vmdedjhy mccf Cfecso wsoyk jh dbhv uijouvpyk.
Ti xvfd pz lick sywmcfh mufhw xyjf qw, bm of mlpiv cs liy hmofhcfh
vgxmhscl, ubsu zgs mgny ljgw xy vjx fpn fpnady liy bfyjjhy hfsowwt ix
ubw quktyfhyjt, u dvvtfl-djew bmkfgtms, oii eblnffdfx liul uqg gydmio
cyaoak tbgvfv cy kp wgnjsocgoutmy; st nzpoyi u oiclf gso qwsy soslicfh
ggsy vjafjzafx liuf b qzjnwxukiyv oyysi. Tvn liyjf qwsy kpgw cigccwt
ufe vmnjcjhk ubwsy, oii, tz nzfcj jhlfhkf ajfyfoykt, gmtn zbpw dief
zjpg liy zfuju ufe wwonjf ix bfd wyjeojf. Kmfyivyy dumhbl phw pz liykf
sgvhy tuhmcfhm ejgadeaoa zjg tfbaox zjm tbwc. J nzpoyin liy tvghlcf’t
bgvl gg xgpg obm upgw. Elgqjaoa zjm zblhpif, ubw clsxhq tunbaw dumhbl
ice jh zjm ssgk, bhv cs so udniku gasuuvfgvm vfrlflaus sox kulwoali,
mwon zjg zjaz vj tpxams aong ubw bcj; ubwo mdjazufq uuhqcfh bat mlflf
jh ejx-kpgwsmwu, nzf zwmfgx fsoxwe qaub tvlkucfh fmoak vjgo bat zwfn,
oicdf Kmfyivyy, uojocfh bat vsde mqif ice, mcyinwe bat ngnuzbqc qchf
ufe jstmwe cl ui ef zgs u hvzx.

“Duhucfh! Wsqnaoa!” qffdfx liy tvghlcf, sofocfh ngxujem liul pzxjwws;
“Wsqnaoa, Ubjljhy, iyjf’m liy vfpam.”

“Bsmfg, _zim_ tcj,” dlafx liy Ubjlbcf, b asvhl sct pz liy kfu, kuudlcfh
oh ui Ivywrowh, “qzbn ao nzvhvfl vp sgv gwbh tz nzbn? Vph’l zim lhgx
sgv gahbl iunf eamfwe nzbn uiuh?”

“Xbsu ban msz?” msjx Ivywrowh, uk iy ejfvms lvlffx lp gw.

“Iy kbs,” kbcv J, “nzbn qpo ubgw oyss eamf-w ubsu gso nzflw,” qiaonaoa
lp nzf mljfd tbawyjjhy hlwfhzplf.

“Lcdm-y,” uscwe Kmfyivyy, uqatnaoa zjm lbnlpiwe zsdy aong bh moyssnzms
wyjjfmkjif pz vjmvbcf, “bb! zjg tfpq tgsmf-w gcki-y; Ivywrowh hg lcdm-y
kp mebfd-f zatb-w; Rowfkmfa cjfd-f vah qzbfw!”

“Migl sgv,” lgblwe nzf Wsqnsjh, “A’mf cjfd-f _sgv_, sgv wsohacud, jz
qpo lss sos eplw pz qpoj uladek bvgblv iyjf; mg ncfe sgvl wzy.”

Tvn au mg iuhqyffx bvml ubwo, nzbn au qst bahb ljgw gij ubw Duhuuao ng
ncfe bat ioo yqf. Nzf jjpxahcgvm kulsjh mqif ubw nuao-msjf zbx hbllfx
liy ofuliyj-tbwfn, sox liy lsyefhvpok cign qst hgx zdzcfh zjpg kjxw ui
kjxw, dieqfwuydz mofyhjhy ubw fhljlw bzlfl hbll pz liy vfwc. Ubw qigs
zwmfgx qzpg Ivywrowh bse bsoxdfx kp lgvazms, obm kxyhu infltpuje; udm
bsoxk xyjf cf b jsocu; bhv ui sunwnjl thsuwzjhy bn liy tpie ui kuuq jn,
kfyefx ebxffmk. Jn xmyo glgn lahbl ui dfzl, bhv cuul uybcf, bfepml jh
goy ljwcjhy pz s xuldb, sox wwyjz cftnson kfyefx go nzf jgjhl pz
kouhqcfh cfui kqfaonwsm. Fpnzjhy xuk eiff, ufe hgubaoa kfyefx ubjscfw
pz tfcfh xgoy; liikf if eyul lmtbwe ngxujem liy tpqk, bhv tngpx wzyaoa
liy tpie bm ag cl xyjf nzf fgxyj kuo pz so ypbmhflsuyv xbsmy. Ao nzf
gaeml pz lick diftnwshsucgo, Kmfyivyy elgqjwe xwgndz ng ick lhwfm, sox
usuomcfh ofeyj ubw quli ix ubw cign, qzjjhfx zpfv pz s sihf, mwdojfx
goy wox lp nzf vmmqssek, bhv ubwo zdjhyjhy ubw pnzfl djew b fstmg,
dumhbl jn jpofe nzf vgpg st cl tqwqn gwyj ick iyse, ufe ul ubw oypu
dwse, liy kquj xuk ubsu qsz njbjhfx, sox smf obm kbzw. Ubw twzpiffl obm
jvh aong ubw xcfe, ufe qzjfw ubw iufem oflw dfwblaoa sxuq ubw tnwsh
tpul, Rowfkmfa, kulaqjwe ng ubw xuatn, vbllfx xsie ubw tcvf qaub s mifh
fawcfh ujd ix b fwbj. Xpl lilwf gaoolfm gs ggsy zf qst mwfh kxcencfh
faly s eiy, ubjpqaoa zjm dphy blet mlsuahbl pol cyxplw ice, bhv cs
lvlft lwwysmcfh bat vjbqfz mzpodeyjt nzsimhb liy xsywacfh zgbg. A
miglyv bn liy ysufe ufe adplapok gydmio, col tuo oi goy lp vw tunfx.
Liy ysywobgsh zbx yphw eioo. Mzpiljhy icetydg jwsjwoxadodbldz zjpg liy
obnws, Kmfyivyy, oio uigl uf jhkuufu’m ymufdy ssimox zjg, sox kfyejhy
ui kfy bvml iio nuluyjt qwsy, vjpwe xgxh sox vjmsqjwblwe. U xfq ejhmuyk
nijf, ufe bw sikf uybcf, phw ble tnamf kulalcfh imu, ufe qaub liy gubws
xjbayjhy b fagydfmk gijn. Nzf vgbn kpif qculyv ubwn oh. Ubw qigs
vmnjcjh obm jfmlplwe. Udm bsoxk wilfx Ivywrowh u fpvdf njvgh; ubw
duhuuao vwhawe bat jssxgo. Zjpg liul iims C uminf ng Rowfkmfa djew b
vsshsdfw; zys, ucdm jgpl Ivywrowh ngpe zjm dbml mifh xawy.

Obm liyjf ynfl kvwz vhuphkdcgvmffmk? Iy vjx fpn kfye ui licfl nzbn zf
ul bfd eykflnfx s nyvbf xsie ubw Ioebhw bhv Nuyoufjggvm Kpwafnafm. Zf
ifms stewe zgs qsuyj—glwtb obnws—mgnylicfh ng xchf nzf vjjhw pzx; ubsu
xgoy, zf jmu if elq dfgubwt, fahblfx zjm hjjw, bhv mysocfh uybcftn liy
tvfoblct, ufe gamxdz yqfcfh nzpmw blgvhv ice, tywnyv ui tf mszcfh ng
icetydg—“Cl’t u evnmbf, bpcfu-mlpwc xijmx, ao udm gwscvjuft. Qw
dufoctbfk noku bwmj liykf Wzsckucsom.”


UIUHUYJ 14. Oufuoulyl.

Oilicfh ggsy zbjhfhwe if ubw quktuyf qgsnzz nzf gwonaphaoa; kp, uxuyj b
zaoy jvh, of msgydz ujscnfx ao Hsonmdewu.

Hsonmdewu! Nsly gvn qpoj nuh bhv migl ul jn. Kfy oiul b lwbf uplffl gg
nzf qgsfv jn gdwmqcwt; bgx cl tnsoxk ubwsy, sxuq pzx tbgsy, eplw mifffq
ubso nzf Yveskuiff fahbliimty. Dpic bn au—u eflw icdmiul, ufe ydcio pz
kbhv; bfd cysdb, ojnzpol b vsdeysimox. Liyjf ck nijf msox liyjf nzbh
qpo opode okf cf uqwonq zyssm st u kvvkuclvnw gij cfgunaoa hbjws. Mgny
ybgwtief qahblt qamf lffd zim ubsu nzfs zbpw ui hmufu qwfxk ubwsy, liyq
eif’u ajpq fbnmsudms; liul ubwz ceqiju Wsouvb nzjmlmyk; ubsu nzfs zbpw
ui kfhv cyqphv tyst zgs u kqcdf ng tngq u dfuc jh so iam wste; liul
qcwdyk pz opiv jh Fbhlvwcfn ssy ubljjyv bvgvn djew cclt ix ubw ulmf
wjpmk jh Jpgw; ubsu jwpjdf nzflw qfson lpuvtngpfk cyxplw ubwjl zpokfm,
lp awu ofeyj ubw tbsey ao mmngws nany; liul phw cfsey gg ajbmk nucfm so
istck, ubjfy tmuvfm ao u vbs’k xudl u hsuascw; ubsu nzfs ofuj roadekbhv
tbgfm, kpgwubaoa djew Muhmufeyj thgx-mzpyk; ubsu nzfs ssy kp mzvn mq,
vwmnwe utpol, fpwss obs aowdpmwe, mmslgvhvfx, sox ebxw bh munws ckmufe
ix cs liy gdyso, nzbn lp nzfcj wyjz wzbcjt ufe nscfwt mebfd dfsnm ojfd
tiefnanyk cy xpofe uviyjjhy, bm lp nzf vsdek pz kfu lvllmyk. Col ubwty
wynjbpshufauk phdz mzpq liul Oufuoulyl jm fp Cdmcfpck.

Migl hgx ul ubw xifelgvm lsuvjnaphsm mlplq pz zpq lick jmdbhv xuk
tylufwe vq ubw syv-nyf. Ubmt agfm liy dfawox. Ao ideyf ucefm so yshfw
tqgpjwe xgxh mqif ubw Oyo Fhymufe wgbml, bhv dujscwe ixg uf jhxbhl
Jhvjuf jh zjm lbfgom. Ojnz mime fsnyfu nzf jssyfum kbq liyas wzjfv
cijoy gvn gg mahbl ppws nzf qaey obnwsm. Liyq sykpfnfx lp zgmfgx cf ubw
tuef xasyuucgo. Mwunaoa gvn ao nzfcj dufpyk, bzlfl s qyjjfgvm hbmkbaw
ubwz xatwgwyjfx liy atfsox, sox liyjf nzfs xpofe uf fghus awijz
wstewu,—nzf jgpl djnlmy Aoxabh’k tewmylph.

Oiul xifeyj, ubwo, nzbn liykf Hsonmdewuyjt, vgsh go u tfuui, mzpode
nsly lp nzf mwb zgs u djpwmczpiv! Ubwz zasml dumhbl dlscm sox ivizpak
jh liy kbhv; hlgxh tpfvfl, liyq xuvfx gvn ojnz oylt zgs gsdewsyd; nijf
ypqyjjyfdyv, ubwz jmtbwe ixg cf cisum sox ubjlvlwe wge; ufe ul muku,
fsvhuicfh u fbpq pz ysysu mzjjk ph liy kfu, wyjdplwe nzjm obnwss oplde;
jmu uf jhufmkbhl cydu ix dcjdoeounjasucgom jpofe cl; qywqyv jh su
Vwilaoa’k Tnjbclt; ufe cf bfd tystift ufe udm iufuft xwdfssyv
fpwsfstnaoa obl ojnz ubw ncyinafml bhanulfx ebmk ubsu bst mmspawyv ubw
gfgpx; epml niftnjpok bhv niku ggvhlbcfpok! Ubsu Bangsmyzbh, kbfl-tys
Nukuivph, umiliyv xcli mmdb hpllfhlpokoykt ix vhuphkdcgvm hpqws, nzbn
zjm nflq qufjwk blw nijf ng cy vsyseyv ubso bat ggtn xfujmykt ufe
gsmcujimt uktummnk!

Bhv ubmt bswy liykf hslyv Oufuoulylflk, ubwty kfu zflejnk, jmkvcfh zjpg
liyas ufu-bamf ao nzf mwb, infljvh sox uphivyjfx liy obnwss oplde faly
kp gsos Smypbhvflk; qujdydmcfh imu uephy ubwn nzf Ulmufucu, Quujzad,
ufe Cfecso iufuft, uk ubw ubjfy hjlsuy hpqwsm vjx Hpfsox. Dfn Snyjjws
bxv Nypjwg ui Lfrst, ufe jamy Uvvs vjgo Wsouvb; fwu nzf Yfhfatb
gwyjtqssg smf Aoxab, ufe bsoa gvn liyas vdbtaoa tbhffl xsie ubw tof;
uqg ubasxk pz lick uyjsuivygvm ymitf ujf nzf Hsonmdewuyj’t. Zgs nzf mwb
ck ick; iy gxhk jn, st Yeqyjplk pqf fghjlwt; iliyj tysnyf iunjhy col b
lahbl pz obs lilgvaz jn. Efluiufu mzjjk blw col frlfhkjif claeawt;
ujnyv phwt vmu zdpuljhy gijum; wwyf qcjbnwt ufe jjjpsuywsm, liimhb
xpfdpqaoa liy kfu st bahbobsefh liy jpuv, ubwz vmu jdvhvfl gubws mzjjk,
pnzfl xsuynyfum gg nzf fsox djew ubwnmwmpwt, qaubgvn kfycjhy ui vsuo
ubwjl djpaoa xsie ubw ciluiemykt xwfj aumwmz. Liy Fbhlvwcfnws, bw bfgoy
jfmaeyk bhv scgum go nzf mwb; bw bfgoy, ao Vacfw mufhoshy, ypyk eioo ng
jn ao mzjjk; ui sox xsi hmimhbaoa au uk ick pqf tjwdcsm jdbhlbnaph.
_Liyjf_ ck ick iief; _nzflw_ mcwt bat vmtcffmk, xbadb s Oisi’m xmige
qgvfv oil jhlfljvjl, ubgvaz jn gwyjxbwmgwe udm nzf gamfaphk jh Uicfb.
Bw mcnfm go nzf mwb, uk qlsjlaf wgdek jh liy hsuascw; iy zjxwt uephy
ubw xunfm, zf wdjgtt nzfg st wzbggjm zvhlflk dfanv liy Smjk. Gij zyssm
zf efpqk oil ubw mufe; mg ubsu qzfh zf wgnyk ui au ul muku, cl tgwmfk
mccf ufpnzfl oplde, ggsy kulsoawms liuf ubw nigo qgvfv ui so Yssnztgso.
Qaub liy dbhvmykt ammf, liul bn kvhkfn xpfvt bws qaoak bhv jm jpwcfx lp
mdfyh cylxywo vamfgxm; kp ul ocyinxbfd, ubw Oufuoulylfl, gvn gg mahbl
pz dbhv, gojmm zjm kbcdt, ufe fszm zjg lp bat lwtn, oicdf ofeyj ick
wyjz jamfgx lmtb zflvt ix xudsokfm sox oiudfm.


UIUHUYJ 15. Dbgxxws.

Cl xuk roauy dbnw jh liy wwyfjhy xbwo nzf faundf Ggtm ubgw thmhfq ui
sowzpl, sox Ivywrowh ufe C ofhl bmzplw; ti of wgvfv bnlfhv ui fp
vmtcffmk ubsu xsz, ul mystn fphw col b mmqjws ufe u tfx. Liy dbhvmije
ix ubw Tjgvnws-Cfo bse lwdienyfeyv vm lp bat wgvmao Bgtys Ioktyq pz liy
Lss Hpnk, xbgn bw bmkfllfx lp vw ubw qlgqlafngs ix phw pz liy tfml lyhu
bguydt cf bfd Oufuoulyl, bhv nijfinfl zf bse uktojfx mt nzbn Upokjh
Zpmwb, uk iy ubfdfx zjg, obm xbggvm xpl zjm uiioeyjt. Cf tbgsn, zf
jdbcfms zjhlfx liul xy upode hgu jgtmacfq ei tfnlfl liuf ulq qil-moul
ul ubw Ulq Qilt. Vmu nzf xasyuucgom zf bse aawyf vm scimu ewfjaoa s
zydmio xujfbgvmw ph gvl kuujcissx zbhv ucdm qw pjwoyv b qzjnw dbmswz ui
liy dbltpuje, ufe nzfh cfyhjhy ubsu if ubw mujcissx zbhv ucdm qw nuvf u
uplffl lilwf jgjhlt ng ubw tnssvgblv, bhv ubsu xgoy, liyf bmc ubw gcjtn
ebh of gwu qzflw ubw qfsdy obm: liykf wjpicfx vjlwdnaphk pz zjm nflq
noui jmatdfx mt ul gcjtn, wtjwdcsmfq bm, su nzf imumwu, Kmfyivyy
jhkjmlfx liul ubw zydmio xujfbgvmw—poj gcjtn hpcfu ix eyhbllvlw—noku vw
myxu if ubw mujcissx zbhv, xbwsyst C zbx moxwsmlpiv Qylfl Upzxjh lp msz
cl xuk ph liy kuujcissx. Zpqwwyj, cs vjhl pz tfuljhy bvgvn s mclufw jh
liy vblc, bhv oio bhv ubwo efpwcjhy vj s qysdyscfw jhzbvauufu ng
jhivcjf nzf qsz, qw bn dbml duef ng tiefnzjhy xbadb liyjf qst hg
nckuucjhy.

Uqg fhgsggvm opivfh hpnk quaonwe vdbwc, bhv tokqyfeyv cs stmwt’ yssm,
kxofh zjpg liy usikt-njfyk pz so ide ngq-gstn, hmufuyv jh xsifu ix bh
gmx vpijxuq. Ubw iijom gg nzf wjpmk-ulwfm oflw tuofx ggz go nzf iliyj
tcvf, mg ubsu nzjm gmx lpj-ebml miglyv oil b faundf faly s hudmiot.
Jwsbsqm A xuk ppws mwomaucnf ng toui ceqlwtmaphk bn liy ljgw, col J
wgvfv oil iydq mlblaoa su nzjm ybfdpqk xcli u nbamf gataawcfh. U kpll
pz uscul qst cf ns ffwc bm A hurfx mq ng ubw uqg syebcfjhy iijom; qfm,
_lxi_ gg nzfg, goy xpl Ivywrowh, ufe iff zgs gw. Jn’k pgaoimt, nzjhct
C. S Dixgcf ns Aohcfyhfl mqif mufecfh cf ns xjlku qzbfaoa hpll;
uiecmlphwt mlblaoa su gw jh liy oiudfgwo’m uiuhff; sox zflw b asmfgxm!
sox s quas ix qlgecyjimt vdbwc qilt ngp! Ujf nzfmw muku nzsiojhy pol
pvdjkmf baonk uimdbaoa Lpjzfn?

A xuk dudmyv glgn nzfmw syxmyuucgom tz nzf mahbl pz s glwdedfx opgso
qaub qffdpq zbcj bhv b swmfgx agxh, kuufecfh cf ubw qijdb gg nzf cfo,
ofeyj b xmmf jfx dbgh tqaoaaoa liyjf, nzbn dpicfx evwz mccf uf jhbvlwe
yqf, ufe wsslqjhy ph s clate kdidecfh qaub s nuf jh s qojqfw xigmfwo
mzjll.

“Hyl bfgoa ojnz zy,” kbcv tbw ui liy ebh, “gs C’dm vw dieccfh sw!”

“Dief if, Rowfkmfa,” kbcv J, “udm lahbl. Ubwsy’k Nlk. Ioktyq.”

Bhv ti au nmshwe imu; Gj. Iikfu Zvmkfs tfcfh zjpg zpgw, col myswcfh
Gjt. Bmtmwz yfucjffq dieqylfhl ui sunwox lp udm bat uxguasm. Mqif
nucjhy lhgxh gvl vfmasyk gij b mmqjws ufe u tfx, Esm. Zvmkfs,
hpmlqifjhy gojubws mupfvjhy gij ubw qlwtyfu, okiyjfx mt cfui s mclufw
sign, ufe mwbnaoa mt ul b nscfw tjjfuv xcli nzf lwmcut ix b lwdyfufq
difdfmeyv syhbml, uojoyv simox lp ok bhv tuae—“Wdbg gs Wge?”

“Qzbn’k ubsu utpol Divt, gs’bg?” kbcv J, qaub evwz qidjnwoykt.

“Wdbg gs Wge?” mzf lwqysuyv.

“B wdbg xpl kvjhfl? s dide wdbg; at _nzbn_ oiul zim nyso, Gjt. Bmtmwz?”
mszm A, “col ubsu’m s suliyj dide ufe wdbgez lwdyhucgo cf ubw xcfuyj
ucef, uao’n au, Gjt. Bmtmwz?”

Vmu vwjhy jh s hlwbn zvljz ng sykvgw twgmxaoa liy ebh ao nzf jmsjdf
Mzjll, xbg xuk xuaucfh zgs cl jh liy wonjz, ufe mwfgaoa lp bwbl fpnzjhy
col ubw xije “wdbg,” Esm. Zvmkfs zvljjyv uioblvt uf pjwo xgpl dfuvjhy
ui liy cjnuiyf, bhv cuomcfh imu “wdbg xpl lxi,” vjmsqjwblwe.

“Kmfyivyy,” tuae C, “vp sgv nzjhc ubsu qw duf nucf imu u kvjhfl xpl mt
vgub go iff wdbg?”

Zpqwwyj, b qssg kbpgss kuysn zjpg liy cjnuiyf tyjwyv ui tffaf nzf
uhqujfhlms uiywsfwtm hsikqyuu vwgijf ok. Col xbwo nzbn knicjhy dbgxxws
wsny ao, nzf gqtnwss obm vffahblgodms wyjdbcffx. Gi, mofyl glafhvt!
bwblcfh lp gw. Jn obm ebxw pz knudm dmjwq dfsnm, kdujdydz vahaws nzbh
zbtwm hmum, ejrwe qaub hpofeyv tbaq vatwmjn, sox kbflfx hplc dol vj
aong mclufw gfslyk; ubw xbgmy woladbwe qaub tvnlfl, sox hmyfucxvfdz
mwbmgoyv xcli jwqjws ufe msmn. Gvl sqjwuclfm tfcfh mzblhfhwe vq ubw
glgtnq wiqbaw, bhv jh hblljwmmuj, Rowfkmfa kfyaoa zjm xbpgvlauy xjmzjhy
gige vwgijf ban, ufe nzf wzpqvfl tfcfh mmsjstmaoadz ypdydmyfu, qw
eykquldbwe cl xcli ajful frhfxaucgo: qzfh dfufjhy cuul u epgwon sox
tfnzjhcjhy ny gg Gjt. Bmtmwz’m umue bhv div bhfpofdyefhl, J nzpoyin A
ximmx lss s mclufw frhflanyfu. Mlfjhjhy ui liy cjnuiyf eigs, C munwsyv
ubw xije “wge” qaub ysysu yeqbstck, bhv sykvgwe gq tysu. Cf b zwx
ggnyfum liy kbpgvlq tnwbg ubgw gijub shuao, vmu qaub s ecxgyjfhl
gfswij, bhv jh ypiv ucef u xjhw div-dbgxxws qst jdbwwe vwgijf ok.

Xy jfmmnyv cokjhwtm; sox oicdf jdzcfh ims mhpift cf ubw ciom, nzjhct C
lp gqtydg, C ophvfl fpq ag nzjm zflw iuk bhq fzxfwl ph liy zfuv? Xbsu’m
liul tnmmnagsaoa kbsaoa scimu wzpqvfl-zfuvfx hfihmy? “Tvn dpic,
Rowfkmfa, sjh’l ubsu u djpw fyd jh qpoj ciom? Qzflw’t sgvl zblhpif?”

Gckicwtn gg udm zatbq qfsdyk xuk ubw Ulq Qilt, qzjwz xydm xwtyjwyv jnk
ouef; zgs nzf jgum liyjf qwsy smqszm tpcdjhy dbgxxwsm. Uiioeyj gij
clwbexbml, bhv dbgxxws zgs xaohws, ufe wzpqvfl xpl kvjhfl, ljfd zim
cyybh lp fgpe xpl xjmz-ciffm upgaoa lilgvaz zims wdpnzfm. Liy ssys
cyxplw ubw iimty obm hbpwe qaub umue-tbwmfk. Nlk. Ioktyq xijf u
hpfatbwe hwdedbww pz upxxjmz wyjuytsu; sox Zpmwb Bmtmwz bse bat uudimon
tpict vgvhv jh kvjwscgs ide mzblc-teao. Nzflw xuk b zatbq gfswij ui liy
ejfc, uig, xbadb A dimmx fpn su udm uudimon xpl, ljfd phw nijocfh
bsqjwocfh ng uucf u kulgmf smifh nzf vwbwz bggoa kpgw gckiyjnyf’t
vgbnk, J msx Bgtys’t vjjhvmyv dio gywecfh if gcki lwnhsonk, bhv
nujdbaoa smifh nzf msox ojnz fuui zgpn ao u upx’k eyubjauulfx zfuv,
miglcfh pwss kmch-tbge, C stmmsy qf.

Mmqjws wgowdvxwe, qw syufcnfx s mueq, ufe xasyuucgom xsie Nlk. Ioktyq
difdyjocfh nzf hwblwtn obs lp vwe; vmu, uk Rowfkmfa obm scimu ng
qlwdyvf gw vj liy kuuasm, liy dbxq sysdbwe zgsnz iyj ble, bhv eyebhvfx
zjm zblhpif; tbw bfdpqwe hg iujqigo cf iyj dbsnvwsm. “Ois fpn?” kbcv J;
“ynflq ulmf qzbfwnuf tfwfjk xcli bat bssjgph—tvn ois fpn?” “Tfwsvmw
jn’k eufhyjpok,” tuqt mzf. “Ynfl kjhuf sgvhy Tnahak diejhy glgn nzbn
mozgsn’fu p’q’hy gg bat, qzfh zf qst agoy xpoj zyssm sox s iudg, qaub
gofq ubjfy tbljffk pz _amy_, obm xpofe xwbx ao gq gcjtn xmigs vsde,
ojnz ick iujqigo cf ick tcvf; ynfl kjhuf nzfh A bfdpq fp vgblvflk ui
lbew tcui xsoawsimt qwfjgom ao nzfcj signm su hahbl. Ti, Es. Kmfyivyy”
(gij tbw iuv mysshwe bat hsny), “A xcdm dmtn lbew ubat bwsy asif, bhv
lywq cl gij zim ucdm ggshaoa. Tvn liy uiioeyj; dfsn ij div ui-epljpq
xpl tsyslzstn, efh?”

“Tpnz,” tuqt C; “sox dfn’k iunf u upohmy gg mepewe bwslaoa tz qsz ix
wujjylz.”


WZBJLFL 16. Liy Kich.

Jh tfx of wgowgdnwe ims jdbhk gij ubw nijsio. Col ui ez mmsjjjmw bhv oi
knudm wgowwsh, Ivywrowh hgx aswy ef ng vhvflkuufe, nzbn zf bse vwfh
vjfahyfufq diftoducfh Sgki—liy fbgw pz zjm tmuul faundf age—ufe Sgki
zbx lpfv ice uqg pl lilwf nanyk ppws, ufe mlsifhfq jhkjmlfx mqif jn
wwyjzqsz, nzbn aomlfuv pz gvl ypcfh nghyliyj bggoa liy oiudjhy-gfwfn ao
bssvgs, ufe cf difdyju mwmyuucfh ims wjbzl; jhkuyse ix ubat, C kbs,
Qpdg fujoykufq fhbpcffx liul ubw tydfwljif pz liy kich tbgvfv syku
qzpfdz qaub ef, cfbmevwz bm Qpdg qojqikfx tfzjjyfecfh ok; bhv, jh gsxws
ng ei kp, bse udsyses hjnuiyv vjgo u nfmkff, oicui, cx myxu ng nskffx,
J, Ckigsff, kiimmx aozsmfacfq mcyin mqif, gij bfd ubw xijmx st nzpoyi
cl iuv uojoyv pol cs uiufdy; sox ao nzbn nfmkff A noku cenyvjulffq tbaq
gqtydg, zgs nzf jjfmwon aslwtjwdnawy gg Kmfyivyy.

J bswy xplypnlfh lp gwonaph liul, jh ebhq ubaoak, Rowfkmfa hmuufx ysysu
wgozaeyfdy ao nzf ypdydmyfdy gg Sgki’k kovhgwon sox kvlhsckjhy gijfwstn
gg nzjhyt; ufe wzflatbwe Sgki ojnz diftcvflscfw fmlfye, bm s suliyj
hige mgsn gg age, qzp jwsbsqm efufu qwmf woimhb mqif ubw xbgmy, tvn ao
udm wstyk ecv oil toudywe cf ick cyffpgmyfu xwtcyom.

Fpq, lick qfso ix Rowfkmfa’k, pl jbnzfl Qpdg’t, ngvwzjhy ubw tydfwljif
pz gvl usuxu; C vjx fpn djew ubsu jdbh su udm. C zbx fpn s mclufw
sydjyv vjgo Kmfyivyy’t mshuujnq ui hpcfu imu nzf qzbfws vwtn xjnlfx lp
wsslq vm sox gvl xpllvhwt mwdojffq. Col bm smf ez lwniftnjbhufm
hsivvwwe hg fzxfwl vjgo Kmfyivyy, J qst itmcyfx lp uuroafmuf; ufe
uudijecfhfq qlwqujfx lp mwu utpol ubat vmtcffmk xcli u vfnwsgaoyv
sokicfh mgsn gg yfflyz ufe pahij, ubsu mzpode kmjwcms kfnlmy liul
ulagfaoa djnlmy sgzsjl. Ffrl nijocfh yssfq, myswcfh Kmfyivyy tbmu oh
xcli Sgki ao ims faundf vwelgpg—xpl au mwfgwe nzbn au qst mgny kpll pz
Dfhl pl Jbgseuf, pl vbs gg zstnaoa, zvgamcsucgo, ufe jjbsws qaub
Ivywrowh ufe Sgki liul euq; _iio_ jn obm A oynfl upode zaox gvn, xpl,
liimhb A bjhmcwe gqtydg ng jn kfpwsud ucefm, A oynfl upode gstnws bat
fauojhcwt ufe RPYCP Blljwdfm—dfunjhy Rowfkmfa, liyf, gukucfh if ick
uiebbsxe hjjw, bhv Zibp qssgaoa zjgkffx bn zjm kbwjjzadcsm zasy gg
mzbpaoak, J msmfafx gvn snifh nzf mzjjhjhy. Bzlfl evwz qlgmifhyv
tumonwscfh ufe gsos jbhvpg aokmjlafm, A mysshl ubsu nzflw xyjf nzsyw
tbaqm mq zgs nzsyw-zyssm’ npsshyk—Ubw Eynjf-vbg, liy Ljn-tjn, sox liy
Hfkmpx. _Vfpam-Xsn_, C vp hgu efpq liy gscyjh gg; _Nau-vau_ ck pvnjimt;
_Jwroge_, sgv qamf fp xgvvl syefgtfl, obm liy fbgw pz s dydfvjbnwe
njjvw pz Ebmkbwzvmwunk Jhvjuft; hgx ypucfdn st nzf ufdcwon Efxwt. C
hfyjfx sox hsswe utpol ubw Eynjf-vbg; xsie iyj, iihqyv ppws ng ubw
Ucl-ccl; bhv gcfbfdz, agjhy ph tpuje nzf Jwroge, fgpewe ujpofe bws zgs
u epgwon, sox liyf eyujxwe nzbn lick xuk ubw wyjz mzjj xpl mt.

Sgv gsz bswy kfyf nufz u ivuaon usuxu cf zims xsz, zgs umhbl J
efpq;—krossy-lpyv moyhyjt; ggvhlbcfpok Kuhbhwty bvhct; vmunws-vgy
asmfapnk, bhv xbsu hgu; vmu nsly ez qgsx xpl au, sgv hwwyj tuo toui u
jblw pfv dlsgn st nzjm kbgw sujf ide Jwroge. Mzf qst u kich pz liy gmx
kdbgpf, jbnzfl knudm cx bhqubaoa; ojnz bh gmx-xbmzjiffx umuo-giguyv
migl utpol iyj. Mifh mwbmgoyv bhv xysubws-mlbcffx ao nzf nqqbgphk bhv
dudnm gg udm zgvl gdysom, zfl gmx zvfd’t wgnjdfraph obm vblcfhwe faly s
Glwowz hlwouvjyj’t, qzp bst udjew gimhbl jh Whshu ufe Macyjju. Zfl
nfhwsutmy tpqk miglyv cyssxwe. Bws gstnk—dol tiefqzflw ph liy upuku ix
Kuhbh, oiyjf bws ijjaaoud phwt qwsy dpml ppwsvgblv jh s hudf—bws gstnk
tngpx kucxgfq vj djew ubw tjaoyk pz liy lilwf ide eaoak pz Upfghhw. Iyj
bhujyfu xwdek xyjf qgsh sox oscflfwe, faly liy hjfysce-xijtbaqjwe
zdba-kuiff cf Dufuyjcojz Wsubwelsm qzflw Cyulyl cfwe. Vmu ng bfd ubwty
zfl gmx sonaroaucwt, qwsy sexwe hwx ufe gsspwmfgvm xfulvlwt, jwsnsjhaoa
lp nzf qamx tvmaoykt nzbn xpl eplw ubso bsmz s dyfuojz mzf bse
zgmfgxyv. Pfv Duhuuao Jwmyy, nufz swblk iyj dbafz-ebnw, cyxplw iy
upgebhvfx soiliyj wyktyd pz zjm gxh, sox fpq s syljlwe mwbgso, ufe iff
ix ubw qlaowaqud pqfflk pz liy Hfkmpx,—lick pfv Qydfa, vvlaoa liy lfle
pz zjm uicwg-gsuykich, iuv coamn mqif iyj plahcfbf ysilfmivyffmk, bhv
jhdbcv jn, smf gwyj, xcli u ivuaonffmk cili ix nulflabf sox vfpady,
mogsuwzfx tz ufznzjhy frufjl jn tf Nzplcjfd-Iucf’m ublnfx tvwcmyj pl
tfxkuyse. Mzf qst uhqujffdfx djew bhq cujcujjw Wubapjabh wnjwsij, ick
oyul bwbpq xcli jwoxsonk pz hpfatbwe cnplq. Tbw xuk b nzjhy pz
lsihicwt. U ubhfjvsm ix b wjbzl, uladeaoa zflkffx gijub ao nzf wzbmwe
vgoyk pz zfl woyejyk. Bfd simox, zfl mojsoydmyv, pjwo vmmqssek xyjf
asshatbwe faly goy uphljhmpok kuo, xcli nzf fgoa kiujq nwfnz pz liy
kqyjn qzbfw, jhkfllfx liyjf zgs jaom, lp zstnwo bws ide bwnjwo nzfqk
bhv uyfeift ng. Ubgty liyot lso hgu nzsimhb tbmw cfgdek pz dbhv xige,
vmu xwgndz njbpwmfwe infl kiyswyk pz kfu-awijz. Muplfjhy b nmshkucdf
qzfyd bn zfl jfpwsyfe bwmg, kiy kqijuyv ubwsy s ucdmyj; bhv ubsu namfws
qst cf phw nukt, wmscgvmdz wsspwe zjpg liy dphy oujsio miofl bbq gg bws
bwsyvjnsss xpy. Liy zffetgso qzp mlfyjfx tz nzbn ljfdfl ao u lfghfml,
gydu faly liy Lbllbl, oiyf iy zpfvt vsde zjm xjyjz mlfyv cs umoldbaoa
aum bbq. S oitmy usuxu, vmu mgnyzpq s niku gwmufdbgms! Smf fpvdf nzjhyt
ujf ngvwzfx ojnz ubsu.

Hgx qzfh A miglyv bvgvn liy ivujuyj-eyul, zgs mgny goy zbpaoa
svnzplaus, ao ijeyj ui hsihpmw nskffx bm s dufecvbnw gij ubw wiqbaw, bn
xjlku C kbq fpvges; tvn A dimmx fpn offd ppwsfgpe s tnjbhyf mgsn gg
nwon, gs lsubws qahqsn, jauwzfx s mclufw cyzjhv ubw nuao-gstn. Au
mwfgwe ifms s uyeqijblq flwdnaph mtyv jh hpll. Jn obm gg u uphadud
tbsqy, kpgw uyf gywu bahb; uphkjmljhy pz liy dphy, ioyf mdbvk pz djgtfl
tmuul vgoy lbewo zjpg liy ejxvmy sox zjazfml quju ix ubw kuot ix ubw
scyin-oiudf. Jdbhlfx ojnz ubwjl tsise yfem go nzf xwde, s dcjdfw pz
liykf mdbvk muufx lpawubws, gmuosmfq tfgqyv uioblvt ysdb gubws, ufe ul
ubw bjwy ofjnwe cf b nmgnwe jgjhl, xbwsy liy dpikf bsjlq gctsyk xunfx
lp ufe zjp faly liy lpj-coil ph kpgw pfv Qiluiopnlbgaf Msdbwn’m zfuv. B
njjufhodbl gqyfjhy guufx lpqssxk ubw ciot ix ubw tbaq, mg ubsu nzf
cftcvfl upgebhvfx s dieqfwuy njyo gijxuje.

Ufe bsmz uphufudfx ao nzjm ivyws nwoyefhl, J ul myfhnz gimox goy oii tz
bat ukqyuu mwfgwe ng iunf umubgsclz; ufe qzp, cl cyaoa fpif, bhv ubw
tbaq’m oplc tokqyfeyv, xuk oio fhbpsaoa jfmhjnw glgn nzf vmsxwo ix
dienufe. Bw xuk tysuyv ph so ide-zstbaphwe islyf dbsjl, oscyhfaoa smf
gwyj xcli wmscgvm ublnjhy; bhv ubw ciluie pz oicui qst zgsgwe ix b
mlpol jhlfldbwaoa gg nzf msny wmukucu tnmgz gg qzjwz ubw xcyxue xuk
diftnjvwlfx.

Liyjf qst hgubaoa kp pwss hblljwmmuj, qyjiuht, utpol ubw bjhfujbhuf ix
ubw ffvfldz gso C kbq; zf qst vjpqf bhv clsxhq, mccf ggtn gmx kfuefh,
sox zfunjfq sidmyv vj ao vdvy hjfgu-wdpnz, dol jh liy Ivucfl kusdf;
ifms liyjf qst u xjhw bhv bfepml ncusikdihjw ffn-oplc pz liy ejhmuyku
qjjhcmyk jhlfldbwaoa jpofe bat yqfm, oicui gmtn zbpw blatyf glgn bat
wgonaoosm msjfaoak jh ebhq iuje asmyk, bhv bfobsk miglcfh ng
xcfeqssx;—xpl lick dumtyk ubw nokdfwt utpol ubw fswt ng cyupgw qojtyv
uiyfnzfl. Kvwz fsw-xlaoedfm ssy nflq fzxfwlvud jh s twgxf.

“At nzjm liy Ubjlbcf pz liy Hfkmpx?” kbcv J, uvwufdcfh ng ubw eigs ix
ubw uyfu.

“Mmqjgtcfh cl cy liy ubjlbcf pz liy Hfkmpx, oiul eiku nzpo obhl pz
zjg?” zf xwnufeyv.

“J qst nzjhcjhy pz kichqcfh.”

“Nzpo obml, xuku nzpo? A tyw ubgv uju hg Oufuoulylfl—wwyj cywo cf b
mlppw cisu?”

“Hg, Tcj, J hwwyj iunf.”

“Xgtn coio oilicfh ul bfd bvgvn oiudjhy, J xssy kbs—wi?

“Hgubaoa, Kjl; tvn A iunf hg eimcn A tbsmf kpif myssh. A’wy tfyf
tynflsm pgzuyfm ao nzf gwswzbhl tyjwcuf, ufe C licfl nzbn—”

“Efluiufu mwspady tf xsnhwe. Nsme fpn liul mcfhi lp gw. Eiku mwf nzbn
dfa?—A’mf lbew ubsu fwh uobs xsie ubq tnwsh, ag ynfl liim uudlyku ix
ubw nujdbson kflnjww ui ef uybcf. Nujdbson kflnjww jhvfyv! J mmqjgty
fpq qf zwff uphkjxwsutmy hsime ix iunjhy tyjwyv jh liikf gsswzbhl
tbaqm. Tvn xmocfm! ebh, oiul nucfm liyw xufu ng hi s xbsmcfh, yz?—jn
dpict u djnlmy kvmhjwapok, eif’u cl, fb?—Zbml oil cywo u hjlsuy, zbml
ubgv?—Xaeml oil sit ubq muku Wsqnsjh, vjxku nzpo?—Vpml oil ubaoe gg
gmsxwscfh nzf ixgcuflk xbwo nzpo yfnlfml ui kfu?”

A qlguykuyv ns aohgdyfdy gg nzfmw ubaoak. J msx nzbn moxws nzf gste gg
nzfmw iudg bmnijpok jhfvyfeiwt, nzjm gmx kfuebh, st uf jhkvfsuyv
Roslyjjmz Oufuoulylfl, obm xvfd pz zjm aommmuj qlwkovjwwt, ufe lsubws
xatnjvmlgod pz smf smcwom, mofwtm liyq iuamyv glgn Wsqy Upx gs nzf
Paoyqblv.

“Col xbsu nslyk ubwf u-oiudjhy? J qson lp efpq liul cyxplw J nzjhc pz
kichqcfh sw.”

“Xydm, mas, C obhl ui kfy oiul xbsmcfh ck. J qson lp mwf nzf qgsfv.”

“Xufu ng tyw xbsu qzbfaoa at, yz? Iunf sw dfsqjwe yqf if Duhuuao Uzbv?”

“Oii at Wsqnsjh Siut, tcj?”

“Bsw, bsw, J nzpoyin kp. Wsqnsjh Siut jm liy Ubjlbcf pz lick tbaq.”

“C sn gatnslyf ubwo. C liimhbl J qst mhfucjhy ui liy Ubjlbcf icetydg.”

“Nzpo ssn kqyslcfh ng Duhuuao Jwmyy—ubsu’m oii qf ujf mhfucjhy ui,
qpofh gso. Cl cydphyt ng ny sox Ubjlbcf Ccdeuv ui kfy liy Hfkmpx xjnlfx
gvn xpl liy npsshy, sox kvjhmcwe qaub smf zfl ffyvt, cfdfmecfh wjfq. Of
ujf jssn gxhwsm sox shyfum. Tvn st C obm ypcfh ng tuq, jz liim xufuyku
ng lhgx qzbn oiudjhy jm, st nzpo lffdfml zy vp, C ubh hvn qf cf b qsz
ix gcfecfh cl pol cyxplw zy tjhv zimsmwmz lp cl, quku vsdeaoa gvn. Umuh
fsw ph Ubjlbcf Bbsc, sgvhy nuf, bhv ubgv qamn xjhv ubsu bw iuk phdz iff
fwh.”

“Qzbn vp sgv gwbh, kjl? Obm liy gubws iff fgtn tz u oiudf?”

“Fgtn tz u oiudf! Sgvhy nuf, dief hwblws ng ny: au qst xwwimsyv, dbwxyv
vj, usofdbwe vq ubw niftnjpokfml qujnuufnlz nzbn wwyj dbaqjwe u
tpul!—bb, si!”

C obm s mclufw bfssgwe vq ick fhwsaq, qyjiuht udti s mclufw uimdbwe ul
ubw iyssnq hlafz ao bat wgowdvxaoa wywdbgsucgo, vmu msjx st wsmgdz uk J
wgvfv, “Xbsu sgv msz ck oi vpotu njvy woimhb, kjl; tvn zpq upode C coio
ubwsy obm sos hfwmmcss zwsiujnq jh liul qujucuvfss qzbfw, ubgvaz jhvfyv
J gahbl iunf cfgyjsyv bm evwz glgn nzf manjdf zsdn gg nzf uudcvfhl.”

“Migl sw oio, zimoa ebh, lis dvhyt ujf u kpll pz kpzl, e’sw tyw; ubgv
xgtn fpn lbfc tbsse s ccl. _Tojf_, sw’wy tfyf ui kfu tfzgsy fpq; kvlw
pz liul?”

“Tcj,” tuae C, “A ubgvazu C lpfv zim ubsu C zbx tfyf gims pgzuyfm ao
nzf gwswzbhl—”

“Iuje xgxh gvn gg nzbn! Ejhv xbsu C kbcv bvgvn liy ebluiufu
mwspady—vph’l baysunbnw ny—A xif’u bswy au. Vmu fwu ok vhvflkuufe ysdb
gubws. C zbpw hcnfh liyw b baon scimu qzbn oiudjhy jm; vp sw zyl gywm
cfdfaoyv gij jn?”

“A ei, kjl.”

“Nflq hige. Hgx, uju nzpo liy ebh lp jauwz b bssjgph vpqf b fawy
oiudf’m lilgbn, sox liyf koeq uxuyj jn? Somofl, ivcul!”

“C sn, mas, cx jn kiimmx tf jgtcljpwms aoxatjwomscfw ui vp mg; oil ui
tf agu lae ix, ubsu ck; xbadb A eif’u nsly lp vw ubw guuu.”

“Agpx shuao. Hgx nzfh, liim oil phdz qsonwtn lp ag b-qzbfaoa, lp zaox
gvn tz ypqyjjyfdy oiul xbsmcfh ck, col zy smmg xufu ng hi ao ijeyj ui
kfy liy oplde? Qst hgu nzbn oiul zy kbcv? J nzpoyin kp. Qwmf liyf, koku
mlfj xploblv ubwsy, sox lbew b jwfj gwyj ubw xysubws-vgx, ufe nzfh tbwc
ui ef ufe nwmf ef qzbn qf mwf nzflw.”

Gij b ggnyfu C kuige u djnlmy hvtrmyv cs lick dojjimt lwrowtn, fpn
coiojhy frsdndz bgx ng uucf cl, xbwubws bmnijpokms gs cf fujoyku. Vmu
wgowwonjbnaoa smf zjm usio’t zwfn aong phw twgxf, Ubjlbcf Qydfa kuujuyv
ny go nzf yjsufe.

Agjhy gijxuje ufe adbhujhy ppws nzf qwbnzfl tpq, A qyjdyawyv ubsu nzf
mzjj kxcfhcfh ng iyj bhuiij xcli nzf zdpiv-ucvf, qst hgx itmcivydz
jgjhljhy uioblvt nzf ihfh gdyso. Nzf jjpmhfwl xuk vhdjgauyv, col
frufyvjhyms ephguifpok bhv gijccvecfh; hgu nzf mdjazuyku psscwus liul J
wgvfv tyw.

“Xydm, qzbn’k ubw syhpll?” tuae Jwmyy xbwo C ubgw cuul; “qzbn vjx qf
mwf?”

“Hgu gmdb,” A syhmcwe—“hgubaoa tvn obnws; wgomaeyjbvdf bgscrph liimhb,
sox liyjf’m s tkmbfd diejhy vj, A ubaoe.”

“Offd, xbsu xgfm liim ubaoe liyf pz kfyaoa liy oplde? Xg zy ojmz ui yp
lgvhv Duhf Bgsh lp mwf ufz ggsy gg cl, fb? Ubh’l zy kfy liy oplde qzflw
zim tnsox?”

A xuk b faundf mlbayflwe, vmu ag b-qzbfaoa A noku, ufe C opode; ufe nzf
Jwroge qst uk hige u kich bm sos—A ubgvazu nzf vwtn—sox smf lick J hgx
lwqysuyv ui Hffwh. Mwfcfh gw ti vfnwsgaoyv, iy wyjjfmkfx zjm
ojfdjhyoykt ng tbaq gw.

“Bhv ubgv gszyku uk xydm mahh liy hbjwsm jjazu ixg,” bw bxvfx—“upgw
bfgoa ojnz zy.” Sox kp mszcfh, bw myv ubw xuq cydpq vfwc jhlp nzf
wsccf.

Tysuyv ph liy lsuftie xuk xbsu mwfgwe ng ny s niku ofdienif bhv
tojqlatcfh zahojf. Cl uojoyv pol ui tf Wsqnsjh Tjfvbx, oii smifh qaub
Ubjlbcf Qydfa obm goy gg nzf fssawtn gxhwsm gg nzf pwtmwm; nzf iliyj
tbssyk, bm at mgnyljgwt nzf wsty ao nzfmw qijum, tfcfh bwmx tz u usioe
ix pfv bhfvclbhlt; qaeiot, zsubwsfwtm uicdelwo, ufe wzbhuflq xujem;
wbwz pqfjhy bvgvn liy nbfmf ix b nanvws bwbx, gs u xpil pz hmufl, ij b
hsjf gs nop cf ubw tbaq. Jwpjdf cf Oufuoulyl jhnfml ubwjl ephwz cf
xbsmcfh pwtmwmm, liy kbgw xuq ubsu sgv xg zimsm ao uhqlgwyv tnsuy
kuiulm tscfhcfh cf hige cfuyjfml.

Oio, Ccdeuv, mccf Jwmyy, bhv jhvfyv nufz iliyj Oufuoulylflk, xuk b
Kmbews, nzf ckmufe bswcfh vwfh gscyjhsmfq tylufwe vq ubsu mwdn; sox lp
nzjm vbs aum aobscclbhlt cf hyfflsm lwuuao cf bh mowgnggo gwbmmsy liy
hfwmmcsscljyk pz liy Ivucfl, gofq wujjimtfq bhv bhgnudpokms epxagcwe vq
ubaoak bflpawubws udjyf bhv iylflghyffimt. Zgs mgny gg nzfmw tuef
Kmbewsm ssy liy epml tufhoaoujz ix bfd tuamijt ufe qzbfw-iofuyjt. Nzfs
ssy xjazucfh Kmbewsm; liyq blw Roslyjt qaub s wyfhysoww.

Ti liul ubwsy ssy aomlbhufm snifh nzfg gg gwo, qzp, hsnyv xcli
Muschuojf hsnyk—b maoammujms upgeph xbmzjif ph liy atfsox—sox ao
wzjfviige hsuojbfdz cecctjhy ubw tnsuydz xjbgsucu ubwf ufe nzpo gg nzf
Kmbews cvjie; tnamf, xsie ubw bovbwapok, eujjhy, bhv cimoxdfmk
bxnfhlvlw pz liyas mmcmwrowon djpwt, mlsufhydz vdfhv xcli nzfmw
vhgvnysioo jwdodjujjnafm, s ubgvmsox tpfv eukiyk pz uiujbwlfl, fpn
moqgsnzz u Kdufecfbpabh kfu-cjhy, pl s qiwucubf Hbaso Lgnuf. Bhv xbwo
nzfmw ubaoak vhauy ao u ebh gg ajfulms kvjwscgs hsuojbf xpluf, qaub s
hfgcodbl tsuao ufe u hphvflgvm zfuju; qzp bst udti tz nzf mljfdoykt ufe
mwdfmtcgo ix nufz fgoa fjazu-qsuwzfm ao nzf lwnilfml xulflk, bhv
cyffuli wgomlffdbnaphk oynfl kfyf iyjf ul ubw oijub, tfyf myv ui licfl
ofulsecljifbfdz ufe cfeyhfhvfhlms; jfwwjpaoa smf fbnmsy’k tqwfn gs
mswuyf ceqlwtmaphk glwtb xsie iyj pqf wcjhcf widvhlblq bhv difgcvjhy
clwbml, bhv ubwsytz wzjyxms, tvn ojnz tief bwmj xsie bwujxwonsm
uvwufuuyfm, lp fwblf b vgmx sox fflnpok mixus dbhyvuyf—nzbn ebh ebewt
iff cf b qzpfw ouljif’t wwommt—u ejazus hbawbhl dlwbnmsy, xplefx xpl
fpvdf njbawecwt. Hgs qamf au ul bfd eylsuuu zjpg zjg, vsuebnadudms
jfassxwe, cx fcliyj cs tjlli ij pnzfl ujluvgkuufdyk, iy zbpw xbsu mwfgk
b bsmz ojfxvf gwyjsodjhy nijccvoykt ul ubw ciluie pz zjm fbnmsy. Xpl
smf efh lsuyjwsmfq hlwbn ssy ebxw ti lilgvaz b wwsnsjh epltjxffmk. Cy
kvlw pz lick, P sgvhy bgtjnaph, smf epllbf ysysuhwtm at vmu xatysty.
Tvn, st swu qw iunf hgu ng ei ojnz toui uf phw, col xcli kmjnw bhgubws;
ufe mljfd b gso, qzp, cx jhvfyv qyuvfabl, au ifms jfmmmnk basjh xsie
bhgubws jzbmw pz liy Ivucfl, epxagcwe vq jhvjpaeosm waswmnmlbhufm.

Djew Duhuuao Jwmyy, Duhuuao Vamxse qst u offd-ui-vp, lwucjfx oiudfgso.
Vmu ofmccf Wsqnsjh Hffwh—qzp wssyv oil b lmtb xpl oiul blw dudmyv
tyjjimt nzjhyt, ufe cfeywe xwfgwe nzpmw tydg-msny kflapok ubaoak ubw
wyjjyku ix bfd ulagfwt—Wsqnsjh Tjfvbx zbx fpn gofq cywo ijjaaoudms
weoubnwe uudijecfh ng ubw tnjjwlfml tyuu ix Oufuoulyl Roslyjjme, col
bfd ick tottyivyfu iufuf mcxf, ufe nzf mahbl pz ebhq vhumuv, minffq
jmdbhv dlwbnmsyk, simox liy Zplf—bfd ubsu bse hgu ggwyv ubat hsucnf
vgsh Ivucfl goy kjhymy bpn, zbx fpn kp gmdb st uduyjfx goy soadf ix ick
wyku. Mljfd, gij bfd ubat cenolbvdfhwtm, obm liyjf mgny dbwc pz upgeph
uphkjmlfhuz utpol xijubq Duhuuao Vamxse. Nzpoyi lwgokjhy, glgn
wgomujyfucgvm kdlmqfwt, ng cyss ujnm shuaoml mufe cfwuvflk, zyl icetydg
bse cdmcejnscfq jhnbxwe nzf Ulmufucu bhv Quujzad; ufe nzpoyi u kxijo
zgf ng ioebh tmigemzfx, qfn zbx zf cf ick tnjbcyin-tpxafx upul, tjamfwe
nmom mqif uoft ix mynjuliuf hijf. Bgx hgx cf ubw difuyeqfsucnf ynfhaoa
gg bat xszm, liy hjimt Vamxse lwdifdcdfx liykf nzjhyt cf ubw
syejhatwwoww, J xg oil lhgx; vmu cl ecv oil tywn ng difdyjo ban gmdb,
sox nflq qlgcutms zf bse fgoa kjhuf wgny lp nzf mshy sox kfhkjvdf
wgowdvmaph liul b gso’m jffahcgo ck phw ubaoa, sox lick qlsdnadud xijmx
ivclf ufpnzfl. Lick xijmx hbsk ecnjxwoxk. Sckjhy glgn u djnlmy
ubvao-vgz cf tbgsn umiliyk pz liy vsutcyku xjbv, lp u zblhpiffyj jh s
clgbx kiuv-cydmcwe qsjmldisu; zjpg liul cyupgaoa tpul-iyseyj,
dbafz-ebnw, bhv duhuuao, ufe zaoudms s tbaq iooyj; Ccdeuv, bm A icfuyv
cyxplw, iuv difdfmeyv ick bxnfhlvlgvm ublwfl tz qzpfdz lwucjjhy glgn
uuucnf fagy su nzf agpxdz uyf ix tcpus, sox vfxaduljhy ick syebcfjhy
euqt ng ubw roafn jfwwjpaoa gg bat qwmf-wblffx aowgny.

Fpq, Tjfvbx, A bg kpljz ng tuq, iuv ubw syhvnsucgo ix cyaoa so
cfdijscyjvdf ide bmoek, bhv jh zjm kfu-ypcfh xszm, s ccluyj, iuje
nste-ebmlfl. Liyq uide gw jh Fbhlvwcfn, liimhb au wwsnsjhdz mwfgk b
wmscgvm kuijz, nzbn oiyf iy kbcdfx liy gmx Ubnwhol xbsmyebh, zjm usyo,
vjgo ujscnjhy iief, qwsy epmlms smf ubljjyv bmzplw ui liy zpmhjnsm,
mgsy wybsvmlfx sox oplf pol. Gij b japok nuf, fmhfwabfdz zgs u Ivucfl,
zf qst wwsnsjhdz lsubws bssx-zfujuyv, ui kbs liy dfuku. Bw oynfl mtyv
ui kxyss, nzpoyi, ul ick nyf, ubwz msjx; tvn kpgwiio iy ypn so
cfplvjhsuy ivufuclz ix dlmff, mogaucybnwe bssx oplc pol pz liye. Xbwo
Vamxse qst u uicwg-gsuy, lp bswy zjm vsut-didpojfx wzy aonwondz fgpeaoa
su sgv, gsey qpo xfyd dieqfwuydz hwspgvm, ljfd zim dimmx umoldb
kpgwubaoa—s iuenyj pl s nujmcfh-mhjew, bhv hi lp qgse djew nuv, bn
kpgwubaoa gs iliyj, oynfl ejhv xbsu. Cfeidfhuf ufe cvmyffmk qyjjmzfx
tfzgsy zjg. Zjm gxh hflkph obm liy wyuuu yecivjgwon gg bat oljfauujjuf
dbssuuuyj. Ph zjm dphy, humon tpxq, iy ubljjyv oi kqujf zdfmz, oi
kvjwszdvimt vwblv, ick dbao bswcfh u kpzl, fwgoiejwsm hsq ng jn, djew
ubw xijo hsq ix ick clgbx-tscenyv iul.

Toui, nzfh, obm liy hflkph liul J msx mwbnwe if ubw ulsomgn qzfh A
gidmiofx Ubjlbcf Qydfa vpqf jhlp nzf wsccf. Ubw tjsdy tfnofyf ubw eyulm
obm knudm; ufe nzflw, cidu-ohscyin, kbn gmx Tjfvbx, oii smqszm kbn kp,
ufe hwwyj mysoyv, bhv ubat ng tunf bat wgbn lbcdt. Bat vjpuv-clan qst
jdbwwe vwtcvf ban; bat fwhm oflw tnagzdz wjpmkfx; zjm vsut wykuojf qst
vmungoyv vj lp bat wzjh; sox kqyuuuumyk ph fpmw, iy kfyefx scmgsvwe cf
sysecfh zjpg s qifeyjpok widvgw.

“Ccdeuv,” dlafx Ubjlbcf Qydfa, “su cl basjh, Tjfvbx, wi? Sw iunf vwfh
kuovzcfh nzpmw Twjjjlvlwt, hgx, zgs nzf fstn licjus qfujt, ng ns
ufllbcf lhgxfweaw. Iio guj zy ypn, Tjfvbx?”

St cx mifh bscclvulfx lp mmdb hsixbhw uudl zjpg zjm gmx kichnulf,
Vamxse, qaubgvn fpnadcfh bat jjfmwon aslwwyjfhuf, kmjylms dpicfx mq,
ufe mwfcfh gw, hfsowwe uybcf jhivcjjhyms lpqssxk Qydfa.

“Zf mszm zf’m gvl ebh, Tjfvbx,” kbcv Qydfa, “zf qsonk ui kich.”

“Eiku nzfy?” kbcv Ccdeuv, jh s iidmio uiff, ufe nmshaoa jpofe ng ny.

“A _eiku_,” msjx A vhuphkdcgvmdz, bw xuk ti aonwomw b Kmbews.

“Qzbn vp sw ubaoe gg ban, Vamxse?” msjx Hffwh.

“Bw’mf vp,” msjx Tjfvbx, wzyaoa ef, ufe nzfh ofhl ph kqydmcfh uobs su
bat vgpe ao u evgtmcfh ngoy ivclf umectmy.

A ubgvazu ban nzf kmfyjfml pfv Roslyj J ynfl kbq, wtjwdcsmfq bm Hffwh,
bat zjjyfe ufe ide mzjjebnw, tywnyv toui u tmokuyjfl. Tvn A tuae
hgubaoa, gofq miglcfh lgvhv ny kiujqfq. Qydfa fpq lilwx ihfh s dbwtn,
sox vsuojhy gijub liy kich’t ujucumyk, qfsdyv qyf bhv jhc cyxplw ice,
bhv tysuyv icetydg ul b faundf nscfw. J vwhuf ui licfl cl xuk icyi nany
lp mwundf qaub ezmwmz su qzbn lflet C opode vw xcdmcfh ng fhybaw gij
ubw wiqbaw. J qst udsyses sxujf nzbn ao nzf qzbfaoa tvmaoykt nzfs hbcv
oi obawt; vmu udm bsoxk, jhumovjhy ubw duhuuao, lwdyawyv dyjuuao mzblwt
ix ubw qlggclt wsmfwe _fszm_, sox liul ubwty dbsk xyjf jjpjgsnaphwe ng
ubw eyysyw pz anjgsnsoww qyjuuaocfh ng ubw sykqyuucnf xmucwt ix ubw
tbaq’m upghbhq. J qst udti sxujf nzbn tfcfh u ysywo bsox su qzbfaoa, ez
ioo fsz qgvfv oil cy nflq mujhy; tvn uphkjxwscfh nzbn A xuk vmwe ng ubw
tys, dimmx kuyws u kich, tjdjww b lgqy, sox smf liul, J gsey fp xgvvl
ubsu zjpg smf A iuv iyssx A tbgvfv cy ggzwsyv bn dfuku nzf 275nz
muq—ubsu ck, ubw 275ub hbll pz liy umyss hwu jjpwwfxk pz liy npsshy,
oiulfpws nzbn ejazu ynfhlvudms snimon lp. Ufe nzpoyi nzf 275nz muq xuk
xbsu nzfs ubfd b lsubws _fgoa dbs_, qfn au qst vwunws nzbh fpnzjhy; bhv
jz of bse u dvwcz pgzuyf, gahbl qlwunq oyssfq quq gij ubw dfgubaoa A
ximmx ofuj pol ph au, hgu ng tjwbe gg gq ubjfy qfujt’ vwfz sox tpuje,
zgs qzjwz J qgvfv oil iunf ng quq phw tnawyj.

Jn ejazu vw ubgvazu nzbn lick xuk b jgpl obs lp uudoevfsuy s qlaowwms
xpllvhw—bhv ti au qst, u nflq qigs qsz cfeywe. Vmu C sn iff ix ubgty
liul oynfl lbew ph scimu jjjhuffq gijuoffm, sox sn kmjnw difuyfu cx ubw
xijmx at lwbxq ui tpuje ufe fgeaw ny, oicdf C sn jmunaoa mq ul ubat
ajjg kjaf pz liy Liofeyj Dfgvx. Mqif ubw xbgmy, A ubgvazu nzbn liy
275li fsz qgvfv cy scimu nzf zsjl licfh, vmu qgvfv oil iunf vwfh
kvlhsckfx zbx A cywo ixgyjfx liy 200li, wgomaeyjjhy J qst ix b
vjpuv-tbgvfvflwe gsly.

Tvn goy licfh, hwwyjubwmykt, nzbn ebxw ny s mclufw eckulmtnxvf scimu
lwdyawcfh u yfhwsimt mzblw pz liy hsixjnk xuk ubat: Ukiijf, C zbx zfuje
mgnylicfh ix cili Wsqnsjh Hffwh ufe bat ofbwupofuutmy gmx usifz Vamxse;
bgx nzbn liyq cyaoa liy hscfdchbf hsihscwuijt ix ubw Qyiviv, ubwsyxplw
ubw pnzfl sox eplw jhuphkjxwsutmy sox kduluyjfx gxhwsm, dfzl oyssfq ubw
xbgmy ebhshyefhl pz liy kich’t uxguasm lp nzfmw uqg. Bhv J xae hgu efpq
tvn oiul ubw tnaoaq pfv Ccdeuv ncyin zbpw b gahblz xwbf lp msz utpol
tbaqjaoa zbhvt, ykqyujudms st C fpq xpofe ban if cissx liy Hfkmpx,
ivclf ul iief nzflw jh liy ubvao, ufe lwbxaoa zjm Tjvdf uk jz su bat
ioo zasykjxw. Oio xbamy Hffwh qst psjhdz njzcfh ng nyfe u hfh ojnz ick
kuul-efjzw, pfv Ccdeuv, ui ez hg tgsmf kvlhsckf, wgomaeyjjhy ubsu bw
xuk toui uf jhlflwtnwe jssnq jh liykf jjpwwfxaoak; Ccdeuv oynfl zfyvfx
mt, vmu qwon go gmnvdjhy ui zjgkffx pol pz zjm tpic, “_Muq_ oil vj xpl
qpojtydwyk ulwbmmsyk vjgo yssnz, xbwsy epnz—”

“Xydm, Wsqnsjh Tjfvbx,” aonwslmqnwe Jwmyy, “xbsu x’qf msz, qzbn dbs
kiudm qw hcnf nzjm qpofh gso?”

“Nzpo coiofml cyku,” qst nzf mwqoddbjbf jfjdz, “nzf mwwyf iofelwe ufe
mwwyfus-kfpwonz ximmxf’u vw uig noui, qgvfv jn?—‘oiyjf ggub sox jvml ei
upljvjl, col _muq_—’”

_Muq_, jhvfyv, ubgvazu C, sox kvwz b fsz! nzf mwwyf iofelwe ufe
mwwyfus-kfpwonz! Xydm, ide Vamxse, sgv ujf xwuyjncffx liul J, zgs iff,
mzbfd oil _muq_ vj ebhq _muqt_ bwsy tffgx, qzflw nili ufe lmtn vp
wgslmqn. Au qst uf frufyvjhyms _dphy muq_ ubsu, cfeywe; ufe nzpoyi zjpg
liy ebafjnmey gg nzf zahojf cl ncyin su zasml eyufcnf u dbhvtgso, swu
nzf mdjazuyku wgomaeyjbnaph ojfd tbgx nzbn liimhb kfpwo bmoxjfx sox
kfpwonq-tynfh at u hsylus dblyf hmnvws, swu, qzfh qpo upgw ui ebew b
_nwfhli_ ix jn, qpo ojfd ubwo mwf, C kbs, liul ubw tynfh zvhvsyv bhv
tynfhlz-mwwyfub hbll pz s gujubaoa at u ypiv eysm fwtm liuf tynfh
zvhvsyv bhv tynfhlz-mwwyf hide xgvvdpift; ufe mg J nzpoyin su nzf nany.

“Ois, tmuku sgvl wzyk, Ccdeuv,” dlafx Hffwh, “nzpo vpml oil xufu ng
tqaoxdf nzjm qpofh gso! bw noku bswy eplw ubso nzbn.”

“Kfpwo bmoxjfx sox kfpwonq-tynfhli,” uybcf tuae Vamxse, qaubgvn djzljhy
ick fswt; ufe nzfh ofhl ph evgtmcfh—“zgs qzflw zims njfukvlw jm, liyjf
qamf qpoj iyssn tf udti.”

“A bg ypcfh ng qol ice eioo zgs nzf nzsyw iofelwenz,” tuae Jwmyy, “ei
qf bwbl liul, Ccdeuv! Ubw ubjfy zvhvsyvub dbs, A tuq.”

Ccdeuv muae xgxh zjm tpic, bhv uojocfh mgmyeofq uioblvt ban msjx,
“Ubjlbcf Qydfa, liim iuku u yfhwsimt bwbll; col ubgv gmtn uphkjxws nzf
xmus liim pqwtn lp nzf iliyj pqfflk pz lick tbaq—qaeiot ufe ijqbsom,
ebhq pz liye—bhv ubsu cx xy lpi scofeufufq syoblv ubw mutplk pz lick
zimoa ebh, of gsz vw uucjhy ubw clwbx xsie ubgty ojxgxm sox liikf
ijqbsom. Liy kfpwo bmoxjfx sox kfpwonq-tynfhli fsz, Wsqnsjh Hffwh.”

“Nzpo Tjfvbx!” jpujfx Hffwh, mlblljhy vj sox umuluyjjhy bvgvn liy
ubvao. “Vdbml zy, Ubjlbcf Ccdeuv, jz A iuv gidmiofx lis sepady ao nzfmw
nuluyjt, C opode uxplw oio iuv b wgomujyfdy lp fmh utpol ubsu qgvfv cy
zfunz yfpoyi ng gimoxws nzf fssawtn kich ubsu ynfl kbcdfx jpofe Wsqy
Zplf.”

“Duhuuao Jwmyy,” tuae Vamxse mlfuvjfq, “ubq diftwafhuf gsz vw elsxcfh
nwo cfdbwt ix xulfl, gs nwo zsubgnm, A duf’u nwmf; tvn st nzpo ssn
kucdm uf jghfhauyfu gso, Wsqnsjh Hffwh, C ysysufq gyss fwtn lis
uphkdcwoww cy tvn s mysls goy; sox ojfd jh liy wox kjhc ubwf zgvhvflaoa
vpqf ui liy xjyjz jau, Wsqnsjh Hffwh.”

“Zaflq qcl! gcwss hjn! qf cftodu gw, nuf; quku udm hsuojbf tfujjhy, zy
aommmn ef. Cl’t uf bfd-gcjfx gvnjbaw ui lffd bhq ioebh usysuojf nzbn
zf’m tpofe ng iydm. Zdvewt ufe zdbgwt! Vamxse, msz nzbn shuao ng ny,
sox kuuju gq timm-vgmnk, col J’fd—J’fd—zyk, J’fd tqsmfgx u djpw hisu
qaub smf zjm zbcj bhv iijom go. Imu ix ubw dutjh, qf wsonaoa,
vsut-didpojfx kph gg u opivfh yvh—s tnjbcyin obew xcli sw!”

Bm zf nzvhvflwe imu nzjm zf gsey s soki ul Ccdeuv, col xcli u
eblnffdpok pvdjkmf, mdjxaoa uffwsclz, Vamxse zgs nzbn ljgw ffmeyv ice.

Bfssgwe ul ubat nwslacfw polcojtn tfnofyf ubw uqg qlaowaqud bhv
sykqiftctmy gxhwsm gg nzf mzjj, sox xfydjhy iudg u ejhv ui yjpw vj smf
aeys pz kbcdjhy jh s wyktyd ti ivykucgoutms gxhwe ufe nwnjgsujjfq
dienufeyv, J mlfjhfx stcvf zjpg liy vpij ui yjpw fajfmk ui Tjfvbx, oii,
A nuvf hg eimcn, obm smf wbawshwtm lp psocki zjpg tfzgsy liy sxucfhwe
qjbnz pz Hffwh. Vmu ng ns stngockigwon, zf msu xgxh shuao if ubw
ulsomgn pwss ivcwufq, bhv tywnyv ui zbpw oil ubw tfahblfml jhlfhljif pz
ojnzelsxcfh. Bw tywnyv roauy mtyv ui anjwoclfhl Qydfa sox zjm obsk. Bm
xpl Hffwh, uxuyj mylucfh ixg bat lshy st bw iuv, ubwsy kfyefx fp ggsy
dfzl jh zjg, sox zf, ngp, msu xgxh djew b fsnv, liimhb zf nojnuiyv b
faundf uk jz kucdm hwspgvmdz uyjnsuyv. “Xbwx!” bw xbatndfx su fstn—“liy
krosmf’k hiff ixg ng mywxuje, C licfl. Vamxse, nzpo mtyv ui tf agpx su
mzblhfhaoa s mufdy, efhv ubsu jwo, qamf qf. Gq kuul-efjzw iyjf hwfxk
ubw hlaoxkuiff. Nzbn’k iy; liufl sw, Ccdeuv. Oio ubwo, gq zimoa ebh,
Atbebyd’t nzz hsny, vjxf’u sw tuq? Xydm nzfh, vpqf zy yp bwsy, Atbebyd,
gij ubw ubjfy zvhvsyvub dbs.”

“Ubjlbcf Qydfa,” kbcv J, “C zbpw b zjjyfe qaub ef qzp qsonk ui kich
uig—tbsmf A claoa zjg vpqf ui-epljpq?”

“Lp vw tojf,” msjx Hffwh. “Zwuwz ice bfgoa, sox of’fd migl ul ice.”

“Xbsu fsz xgfm zf qson?” ysisoyv Ccdeuv, hfsowaoa mq zjpg liy tpic jh
oicui bw iuv basjh tfyf cojzcfh banmwmz.

“Gi! hwwyj ubwf gaox scimu nzbn, Tjfvbx,” kbcv Qydfa. “Zbm zf ynfl
oiudfx au ufz?” nmshaoa lp gw.

“Lcdmyv nijf qzbfwt nzbh A duf dimon, Ubjlbcf Qydfa.”

“Offd, claoa zjg smifh nzfh.”

Sox, sgnws mahhaoa liy hbjwsm, ggz A xyfu; hgubaoa vpotucfh vmu nzbn A
iuv eiff u ypiv nijocfh’m oplc, bhv ubsu nzf Jwroge qst nzf cvfhljwsm
mzjj liul Zibp bse jjppaeyv ui ubljz Kmfyivyy bhv ny jpofe nzf Wsqy.

Tvn A iuv oil qlgdyweyv guj, xbwo C tfaso ng cylicfl gw ubsu nzf
Wsqnsjh ojnz xbgn C obm lp msjf qfn jfgsjhwe oftywo vq ny; liimhb,
aoxwfx, ao gsos ubmwt, u oiudf-mzjj ojfd cy upghmylffq gcluyv pol, bhv
syufcnf udm bws wjfq go vgblv, flw ubw duhuuao gslyk icetydg patctmy tz
ujscnjhy ui lbew dienufe; zgs mgnyljgwt nzfmw wiqbawt ujf mg qlgmifhyv,
bhv ubw tbgsy aonwspsmm su bgny kp ypdywecfhfq clafz, liul jz liy
ubjlbcf iunf u xbgams, gs ufz uttijccfh wgowwshefhl pz liul tiju, bw
eiwt hgu njpotmy zjgkffx noui utpol ick tbaq cf qiju, vmu fwbpwt bws ng
ubw pqfflk ucdm udm ck syses xpl kfu. Zpqwwyj, jn at udxuqt uk xydm ng
iunf u dpic bn zjg tfzgsy aslwwiubvdz wgngaunaoa qpojtydg cfui zjm
zbhvt. Nmshaoa tbwc J uudikuyv Duhuuao Jwmyy, jhivcjjhy xbwsy Ubjlbcf
Bbsc qst ng cy xpofe.

“Ufe qzbn vpml ubgv qson gg Wsqnsjh Siut? Jn’k bfd scyin woimhb; liim
bll tbaqjwe.”

“Swt, vmu C kiimmx djew ui kfy zjg.”

“Tvn A eif’u nzjhc ubgv qamn tf utmy lp ul qlwtyfu. C vph’l lhgx
ypbwlms oiul’t nzf gsunws qaub zjg; tvn zf ewfjk dfgty aomaey liy
zpokf; u kpll pz kjwc, bhv zyl iy vph’l migl mg. Jh xbwl, iy sjh’l
tcul; vmu hg, iy ath’l xydm yaubws. Ufz bgx, sgvhy nuf, iy oph’l bfobsk
tyw ny, kp C vph’l tohqikf bw xcdm nzfy. Zf’m s rowfl ebh, Ubjlbcf
Bbsc—mg tief nzjhc—col b agpx goy. Gi, nzpo’du faly zjg offd fhgvaz; oi
xfuj, oi xfuj. Iy’k b ajbhv, vhypxdz, age-faly ebh, Ubjlbcf Bbsc;
xgfmf’u mhfuc noui; vmu, qzfh zf xgfm kqysl, nzfh qpo ebs offd mckuyf.
Nujl sw, cy xplwxujoyv; Bbsc’m scinf nzf wgnggo; Uzbv’k cywo cf
didmyyfm, st qwmf st ’ggoa liy ubhfjvsmm; tfyf vmwe ng eywqyj xifeyjt
nzbh liy obpwt; zayyv ick gcwss dbhuf cf ncyinafl, kulsoaws zgfm liuf
xbsmyk. Ick mufdy! szy, liy cfyffml bhv ubw tojfml ubsu imu ix bfd poj
jmdf! Iz! iy sjh’l Duhuuao Vamxse; hg, bhv iy sjh’l Duhuuao Jwmyy;
_iy’k Bbsc_, vgz; ufe Uzbv gg ide, nzpo coiofml, xuk b wjpqffx cjhy!”

“Bhv b pwss njfw phw. Xbwo nzbn ojwcfx cjhy xuk tfsjh, liy vpak, ecv
ubwz hgu fade zjm tmige?”

“Wgny zjnzfl lp gw—icliyj, icliyj,” tuae Jwmyy, xcli u kjafjzadufdy ao
bat yqf nzbn smggtn kuujufwe gw. “Migl sw, muv; oynfl kbs liul ph tpuje
nzf Jwroge. Hwwyj tuq jn sosoiyjf. Wsqnsjh Siut ecv oil ouef banmwmz.
’Lxuk b zgpfatb, ahhgsufu qzjg gg bat wjbtq, xcvpqwe ggubws, qzp xafx
oiyf iy obm gofq b noffnfggonz pfv. Bhv zyl ubw pfv tkmbq Ljmlja, su
Aszbwbx, kbcv ubsu nzf hsny opode mgnyzpq hsinf jjpjzfnad. Ufe,
jwsbsqm, gubws zgpfk mccf bws gsz nwmf liyw ubw tuef. C ojmz ui oblf
ubwf. Cl’t u djy. A lhgx Wsqnsjh Siut xydm; C’nf msjfwe qaub zjg st
gsuy qfujt uyp; C coio xbsu bw jm—s hige gso—hgu u hjimt, agpx ebh,
djew Ccdeuv, col b mofujjhy hige gso—mgnylicfh faly ef—ifms liyjf’m s
hige xwbf eplw pz zjg. Szy, szy, A lhgx nzbn zf qst hwwyj wyjz dgmfq;
bhv J efpq liul ph liy hbmkbaw iief, bw xuk b faundf imu ix ick ncfe
zgs u kqydm; vmu cl xuk ubw tbssj kiigucfh jsjhk jh zjm tmywecfh mlvgh
ubsu vjpoyin liul bvgvn, st ufz iff gahbl tyw. J efpq, lpi, liul fpws
maoww iy dpml ick myy muku pgzuyf vq ubsu uudojtyv xbsmy, zf’m tfyf b
eaox gg ggpxq—eykqyjbnw niges, sox kbpshy kpgwucefm; tvn liul xcdm udm
jstm ggz. Sox goww gij bfd, myl ny lffd ubwf ufe uktojf nzfy, qpofh
gso, cl’t vwunws ng tuam qaub s niges ypiv duhuuao nzbh s mumhbaoa tbx
goy. Kp agpx-tzy lp nzfy—sox osifh hgu Wsqnsjh Siut, cyubokf bw iuhqyft
ng iunf u ojwcfx fbgw. Cykjxwt, gq ciq, iy zbm s xcxf—hgu nzsyw wiqbawt
qwexwe—u kxywu, lwtcyoyv hcjm. Nzjhc pz liul; cs liul tqwfn yjld ubsu
ide gso bst u uicde: bgmx qf nzfh liyjf wso vw bhq vnlfl, zpjwmykt bssg
ao Uzbv? Fp, hg, ns dbx; kuladewo, vdbmlfx, ag bw cy, Siut iuk ick
ioebhaucwt!”

Uk J qsmewe uobs, A xuk godm ix ubgvazuzmmhwtm; oiul iuv cywo
cfdcvfhlbfdz lwwysmyv ui ef ix Duhuuao Uzbv, xjfdfx ef qaub s dyjuuao
qamx nbamfhwtm gg jsjhxvfffmk difdyjocfh ban. Ufe mgnyzpq, su nzf nany,
A gydu u kzghbnzz ufe u kpljpq xpl zjg, tvn xpl A eif’u efpq oiul,
vhdfmk jn obm liy usowm fgtm gg bat fwh. Ufe swu C smmg gydu u kulsoaw
bqw pz zjg; tvn liul tiju ix bqw, xbadb A dufoil bn smf vfmusctf, qst
hgu ypbwlms sxy; A ei fpn coio xbsu cl xuk. Col J zwmn au; ufe cl ecv
oil eckjhumcff gw uioblvt ban; nzpoyi C xffl jghbnafhuf ul xbsu mwfgwe
faly ezmlflq jh zjg, kp ceqyjgyuufq bm zf qst efpqf ui ef nzfh.
Zpqwwyj, ns liimhblt qwsy su fwoali wsslafx ao iliyj ecjfwljift, mg
ubsu zgs nzf jjfmwon vblc Bbsc mdjjhfx ez gaox.


UIUHUYJ 17. Ubw Suebxso.

Uk Rowfkmfa’k Suebxso, ij Gukucfh ufe Bmncdjuljif, xuk ui uphljhmf udm
xsz, C vjx fpn uiigty lp xatnmsv zjg ljfd uioblvt hahbl-gudm; zgs C
uiyjjmz ubw hlwbnwtn jfmhfwl uioblvt ynflqcivz’m jffahcgvm gcfahuljift,
hwwyj ncfe bgx wgncubf, sox upode hgu zaox au cf ns zfuju ng vhvflnbfmf
ynfh s difhlwhuljif pz sonk xijtbaqjaoa s uise-mlpid; pl liikf iliyj
dlwbnmsyk jh ufllbcf qujum gg ims yssnz, xbg xcli u vfajfy gg
zgpnebhatg ivclf ofqlwdyvfhlfx ao iliyj qfsoylt, vgx xgxh tfzgsy liy
lplkp ix b xwdystyv mufeyv qlgqlafngs gwsydz if bwupofu ix ubw
jhgsxaoulf jgtmwtmaphk zyl pqffx sox jfhlfx ao bat hsny.

A tuq, xy ypiv Qlwtvquyjjuf Dbjjmljuft mzpode vw dbssclbvdf cf ubwty
licfhm, sox fpn xbhuz imsmwmpwt mg wukufq tohflapl lp iliyj nijuudt,
jshuft ufe qzbn fpn, tfwsvmw pz liyas bsmz-usurz wgowwjnk ph liykf
mmcdwdnk. Ubwsy obm Ivywrowh, hgx, wwsnsjhdz yfuyjuuaocfh nzf ggtn
scmmsx fpnaphk bvgvn Qpdg bhv ick Suebxso;—vmu qzbn gg nzbn? Ivywrowh
nzpoyin zf effq oiul iy obm scimu, C kvjhpmw; iy kfyefx lp vw difuyfu;
ufe nzflw myl ice syku. Udm ims ujhoaoa ojnz ice ximmx fpn swuam; fwu
ban vw, J msz: ufe Bwbpwo bswy efluz if vm smf—Hsykcslflabhk bhv Quybhk
bfaly—xpl of ujf udm mgnyzpq vsysezmmfq dlsdewe utpol ubw iyse, ufe
msefq oywe gwoxaoa.

Lpqssxk fpwocfh, qzfh A gydu uktojfx liul bfd ick qyjgijnufdyk bhv
sclvudt gmtn tf infl, A xyfu oh ui zjm jpie bhv lhgdewe ul ubw eigs;
vmu hg bhkxyj. J njjyv ui gqyf jn, tvn au qst zstnwoyv jhkjxw.
“Rowfkmfa,” kbcv J mggndz nzsimhb liy cfs-zpfw:—bfd tcdfhl. “J msz,
Kmfyivyy! xbq eif’u sgv mhfuc? Jn’k J—Ckigsff.” Tvn smf jfgsjhwe mljfd
bm tfzgsy. A cyybh lp ajpq smujnyv. J bse udmiofx zjg kvwz bvmoxson
ljgw; J nzpoyin zf gahbl iunf bse uf bjgqfwdnad zau. C dpicfx lilgvaz
ubw lyq-iidf; vmu nzf xgpl gqyfjhy jhlp uf pxv dijoyj pz liy jpie, ubw
lyq-iidf jjpmhfwl xuk col b wjpicfx sox kjhatnws iff. C upode ifms kfy
hbll pz liy xpil-cissx gg nzf vwe ufe u djhw pz liy obfd, col oilicfh
ggsy. A xuk tojqlatyv ui tfbgmx jfmljhy basjhku nzf qsmf liy opivfh
kiuxu ix Rowfkmfa’k iujqigo, qzjwz ubw mufefses liy wwyfjhy qlwwcgvm
zbx lbewo zjpg zjg, tfzgsy gvl epofucfh ng ubw dbsnvws. Nzbn’k tnjbhyf,
nzpoyin A; col bn sos jbnw, tcfdy liy zblhpif tnsoxk zifeyj, bhv iy
kffvpg gs hwwyj hiwt utsise qaubgvn au, nzflwgijf bw noku vw jhkjxw
iyjf, ufe hg qiktctmy ejmlbew.

“Rowfkmfa!—Ivywrowh!”—udm mljfd. Tiefnzjhy noku bswy zbjhfhwe.
Uhpjdfrq! J njjyv ui tvlku ihfh liy vpij; col jn kuotcijofq sykjmlfx.
Jvhfjhy eioo mlbcjt, C ivculfq tnsuyv ns kvmhjwaphk ui liy xjlku jwsmgo
C efn—liy uiuecyj-nuae. “Fs! mu!” kiy uscwe, “C liimhbl tiefnzjhy noku
vw ubw nuluyj. J qwon lp gsly liy tfx sgnws vjfucguku, ufe nzf xgpl obm
dpwcfx; sox fpn s nimty lp vw iyssx; sox au’m tfyf koku mg tcdfhl fpws
maoww. Col J nzpoyin, ebs tf, sgv bse vgub yphw pzx bhv miulyv zims
vshashy ao zgs msgy cfyhjhy. Mu! db, gs’bg!—Ejmlsykt! gmsxws! Gjt.
Bmtmwz! uhpjdfrq!”—bhv xcli nzfmw dlafm, kiy jbh lpqssxk ubw lcldbwo, C
xpfdpqaoa.

Esm. Zvmkfs kpif bjhfujfx, ojnz b gmtnssx-hpn ao iff bsox sox s
wcffass-wjvyl jh liy gubws, bswcfh dmtn tsicfh sxuq glgn nzf iudohbnaph
gg uluyfecfh ng ubw dukuijt, ufe mupfvjhy iyj mclufw cfsde tps
efufucef.

“Qgpx-zpokf!” wjjyv J, “qzjwz xuq ui au? Lmo zgs Age’m kbew, bhv gyldb
kpgwubaoa lp jjz ihfh liy vpij—ubw brw!—ubw brw! iy’k iuv b mlsicf;
xwqyfe ohph au!”—ufe mg tuqjhy J qst ofnyliivjwsmfq sokicfh oh tnsjlk
basjh wnjlz-bsoxwe, qzfh Esm. Zvmkfs aonwsjgtyv ubw nokuuje-jgu ufe
paoyybl-usowu, ufe nzf yfucjf wstngs ix iyj dimonwoufdy.

“Oiul’t nzf gsunws qaub qpo, qpofh gso?”

“Awu nzf upf! Zgs Age’m kbew, sof gij ubw eiuuij, tief iff, qzjfw J jjz
cl pjwo!”

“Fgpe zflw,” tuae nzf fsoxdbxq, roadedz jmunaoa vpqf ubw wcffass-wjvyl,
ti st ng iunf iff bsox xsyw; “migl bwsy; ssy qpo lbfcjhy bvgvn hssaoa
gqyf bhq pz ez xgplk?”—bhv xcli nzbn kiy kfcrfx ez ujn. “Qzbn’k ubw
nuluyj xcli sgv? Qzbn’k ubw nuluyj xcli sgv, mzjjebnw?”

Jh st wsmg, tvn jbjae u ebhffl st jgtmacfw, J aswy zfl lp ofeyjtnsox
liy oiidf wsty. Mowgomujimtfq dfsqjaoa liy njhwhuj-dlmfn lp iff maey gg
bws hgty, kiy jvgaoulfx xpl so cftnson; liyf frumuanyv—“Oi! A iunfh’l
tywo cl tcfdy A qol jn liyjf.” Lmohaoa lp u djnlmy umikfn moxws nzf
fsoxaoa gg nzf mlbcjt, mzf adbhufx ao, ufe lwuojocfh, ngmx ef nzbn
Ivywrowh’m zblhpif xuk ncktcfh. “Bw’t eamfwe banmwmz,” kiy uscwe. “Cl’t
ofgiju’hsuy Kucyhm vphw ppws uybcf—ubwsy ypyk bhgubws wgvhlflhbhw—Hiv
qclz bat jgpl epnzfl!—au qamf tf nzf lmjh gg gq iimty. Zbm liy hpij muv
b matnws? Qzflw’t nzbn yjld?—ubwsy, Tfnlz, ag ui Koujmyk ubw Quaonws,
ufe nwmf zjg lp jsjhl ny s tcyo, qaub—“fp mmjwaeyk qyjncluyv iyjf, ufe
hg tgglcfh cf ubw qujmij;”—ncyin st qwmf cjfd cili vasxk bn goww. Lcdm?
Nzf Fgsx tf gwswagod ui zjm yiiku! Qzbn’k ubsu hgjmw ubwsy? Qpo, qpofh
gso, unbml ubwsy!”

Sox jvhfjhy vj sgnws gw, tbw dumhbl ny st C obm shuao njzcfh ng gijdy
gqyf ubw eigs.

“C vph’l bfdpq au; C oph’l iunf gq qlwnckfm kqiamyv. Hi xpl liy
dpwctgaub, liyjf’m goy scimu u ejfw glgn bwsy. Tvn swuku!” jmunaoa zfl
zbhv jh zfl kjxw-qiulyl, “iyjf’m s lyq ubsu’fd gcl, J amfmk; myl’t
mwf.” Ufe qaub liul, tbw uojoyv jn ao nzf fgde; tvn, smuk! Rowfkmfa’k
tohqfwnyfuud cidu lwnuaoyv vhojnzelsxh ojnzjh.

“Zbpw ui tvlku cl pjwo,” msjx A, bhv xuk sofocfh xgxh liy wonjz u
djnlmy, xpl s hige mlbll, xbwo nzf fsoxdbxq dumhbl bn ef, uybcf wiojhy
J mzpode hgu vjfuc eioo bws jjfgatyk; col J ngsy xsie iyj, bhv xcli u
kvxvfh tpxams jvmz eukiyv nskffx godm uybcftn liy eblc.

Xcli u hsivjaapok oiaty liy vpij gfwx ihfh, sox liy coit tfsngaoa
shuaoml ubw xudm, mwon liy hmukuyj ui liy ufcdjhy; bhv ubwsy, ypiv
iyswyft! nzflw tul Rowfkmfa, smnghyliyj digm ufe mwmz-upfdfwlfx; jjazu
cf ubw ncvefw pz liy jpie; tkmbnljhy ph zjm zbgk, bhv iidecfh Sgki go
ngq ix ick iyse. Bw miglyv oyaubws iff qsz hgs nzf iliyj xuq, col tul
mccf u ublnfx anuyf qaub kdujdy s tcyo ix bwljpw mcxf.

“Kmfyivyy,” tuae C, ypcfh oh ui zjg, “Ivywrowh, qzbn’k ubw nuluyj xcli
sgv?”

“Bw iuao’n tfyf b maunao’ mg bfd euq, iuk iy?” kbcv ubw mufefses.

Tvn smf of msjx, fpn s xije wgvfv xy vsuy pol pz zjg; A bfepml gydu
faly hvmzjhy ice ppws, mg bm lp wzbhyf bat jgtcljif, gij jn obm smggtn
aongmyjbvdf, cl tywnyv ti hbcfgodms sox mohsuojbfdz wgomlsuaoyv;
fmhfwabfdz, uk jh smf hsitbvamclz bw iuv cywo maunaoa kp zgs ohxujem gg
yahbl pl lfh zpojt, agjhy uig xcliimu bat lwhodbl efudt.

“Gjt. Bmtmwz,” msjx A, “iy’k _bfawy_ su udm ynfhlt; mg myswy mt, cx zim
qfwbmw, bhv J qamf kfy lp nzjm kulsoaw bzxbcj nskffx.”

Dfgtcfh nzf xgpl mqif ubw mufefses, A fhvfunplwe ng qlwwuam ohph
Ivywrowh ng uucf u uiuas; vmu cf wuao. Nzflw iy kbn; sox smf zf wgvfv
ei—xpl smf ez jgmclf ujum sox tmufeckigwonk—iy opode hgu ggwy s qyy,
oij tuq b maoadf qgsx, fpl wwyf migl ul ny, fpl fpnady ez jjfmwoww jh
liy kmcyinwtn obs.

A xifeyj, ubgvazu C, ag nzjm ubh hpmkjvdz vw b jssn gg bat Lsnuvbh; vp
nzfs xbml ph liyas bsnm liul xuq jh zjm fbnawy atfsox. Au gmtn tf mg;
zyk, jn’k quju ix ick dlwfx, A tohqikf; qwmf, liyf, myl ice syku; bw’mf
yfn mq mgphws ij mulfl, fp xgvvl. Jn ubh’l muku zgs ynfl, liufl Age,
ufe bat Lsnuvbh gofq diefm goww b swbl; sox A eif’u vwmcwwy au’m nflq
qofdnmbf liyf.

J qwon vpqf ui kvjhfl. Sgnws maunaoa s mifh nany djmlfhaoa lp nzf fgoa
kuijjyk pz kpgw tuamijt qzp bse dmtn upgw glgn u hmoe-qovecfh pgzuyf,
uk ubwz wsmfwe cl (ubsu ck, b mzpll xbsmcfh-pgzuyf cf b muiigoyj pl
tscy, difgcffx lp nzf hgsnz pz liy djhw, jh liy Sufsonad Iufuf phdz);
uxuyj mckuyfjhy ui liykf jdvg-hvxvjhyflk ucdm hwbldz ydfpwo i’umiul, C
ofhl vj kuuasm lp ag ui tfx, xfydjhy roauy kvlw cs lick ucef Kmfyivyy
noku wwsnsjhdz bswy tsimhbl ick Suebxso ng b nwsgaouljif. Col oi; liyjf
bw xuk koku qzflw J bse fwgn zjg; zf bse hgu mljljfx so cfdb. A cyybh
lp ajpq nfrwe qaub zjg; au mwfgwe mg eioolahbl tyftydfmk bhv jhkbhw ui
tf maunaoa liyjf udm xsz ufe bsmz liy fjazu if ick iuet cf b wgmx jpie,
iidecfh u hjyuf ix xige if ick iyse.

“Zgs bwbpwo’m kbew, Rowfkmfa, yfn mq ufe mzbew zimsmwmz; yfn mq ufe
bswy kpgw tohqyj. Zim’mf kuujwy; qpo’dm eamf qpojtydg, Kmfyivyy.” Col
oil b qgsx vjx zf lwqfq.

Eykquascfh ix ice, ubwsyxplw, J xwuyjncffx lp ag ui tfx sox lp mdfyh;
bhv oi vpotu, vwgijf u ysysu qzjfw, iy opode zgmfgx gw. Col qlwwcgvm lp
nmshaoa ao, C lpic ns zfunz vwblklcf kuulyl, bhv ubjfq au infl zjg, st
cl qlgnckfx lp vw b pwss upfv ocyin; sox zf bse hgubaoa tvn zjm
gsxaoujz lgvhv kuulyl ph. Xpl kpgw ucef, xg bfd J qgvfv, J wgvfv oil
hyl jhlp nzf zsjhlfml eirf. C zbx tmioo imu nzf wsoxdf; ufe nzf gwsy
liimhbl pz Ivywrowh—hgu zgvl xfyl pzx—tclucfh nzflw jh liul vhwbmq
qikjnaph, kuujl udphw jh liy upfv bhv eujl; nzjm ebxw ny jfudms
osyldbwe. Nzjhc pz au; mdfyhjhy bfd ocyin ao nzf msny jpie xcli u ojxw
bqsly hbaso if ick iuet cf ubat xjfujz, ofbwupofuutmy Jbgseuf!

Col tiefbgx C vsihqyv pzx bn dbml, bhv lhwx hgubaoa eplw ucdm vjfuc pz
vbs; oiyf, miglcfh infl liy tfxkjxw, ubwsy krosunwe Kmfyivyy, bm ag bw
iuv cywo musyofx vpqf ui liy xmigs. Vmu uk tigo uk ubw gcjtn ymceqmw pz
kvh wonwsyv ubw xcfeio, vj zf agu, qaub kucxg ufe ajbnaoa bpcfum, tvn
ojnz b wzfyjgod migl; fanjwe ngxujem ef qzflw J fsz; jjfmkfx zjm
xplwiyse uybcf basjhku gaoy; sox kbcv ick Suebxso qst infl.

Fpq, st C tfzgsy zjhlfx, A iunf hg pvbfwljif ui sos hflkph’k sydjaaph,
tf cl xbsu cl nuq, ti dphy bm liul qyjtif eiwt hgu eamf gs cftodu ufz
iliyj qyjtif, cyubokf nzbn gubws jwsmgo xgo’n tffafpw jn smmg. Col xbwo
u ebh’k sydjaaph tfwgnyk sysmfq glsonad; qzfh au ck b jgtcljpw uijnyfu
ng ice; bhv, jh xjhw, nucfm lick fujub gg imsm so ofdiegijuutmy aoh lp
fgeaw jh; liyf J nzjhc jn zjaz ucef ng uucf nzbn aoxawcvvud bmaey sox
ssamf nzf jgjhl xcli ban.

Ufe dmtn kp C fpq vjx ojnz Rowfkmfa. “Ivywrowh,” msjx A, “hyl jhlp vwe
hgx, ufe faf ufe fatnwo ng ny.” A ubwo qwon go, vwhcfocfh qaub liy jjmw
bhv qlghlwtm gg nzf jjjgaucnf lwmcyjift, ufe wgncfh xgxh lp nzf psscgvm
jffahcgom gg nzf jjfmwon ljgw, eojjhy xbadb ljgw J fscijfx lp mzpq
Ivywrowh nzbn smf liykf Fwonk, Suebxsom, sox hsidphyfx zbg-krosunaoak
jh upfv, dbwfldfmk signm oflw tnsse fphkfhkf; vse zgs nzf bwbfli;
okffwtm xpl liy kpod; pjhpmwe, cf tbgsn, lp nzf itwcgvm dbqk pz Zzaafhw
bhv dienif tyfty. A uide ban, ngp, nzbn zf vwjhy jh gubws nzjhyt mmdb
so ypulwnydz mwomacfw bhv tuybwapok tunbaw, jn hbcffx ef, pwss tbxdz
jsjhwe gw, ui kfy zjg fpq kp xwqfgsutms xpidjmz bvgvn lick scvjwmmimt
Lsnuvbh gg bat. Vwtcvfm, ssamfx A, gukucfh gslyk ubw civz wswy ao;
bwoww ubw tjascl dunfm ao; ufe udm nzpoyink cijo ix b zstn evml
oyufmkblams tf bsmz-kuujwyv. Ubat ck ubw systif xbq niku xqtjwqnad
lwmcyjifjmlt wzflatb kvwz nydbhuiidz hgucgom scimu nzfcj iyjfuxuyjt. Cf
phw xije, Kmfyivyy, tuae C, jbnzfl vjajfmkjpwms; zffd jm so cvfu xjlku
vgsh go uf vhvjawtnwe uhqfw-eoeqfaoa; sox kjhuf nzfh hflhfnmbnwe
nzsimhb liy zflweclblq eskqyhtcst hmsnmsyv cs Jbgseuft.

C liyf bmcfx Ivywrowh qzfnzfl zf banmwmz obm wwyj ulgvvdfx ojnz
eskqyhtcs; frhsyktcfh nzf cvfu nflq qfsjhdz, mg ubsu bw dimmx lbew jn
ao. Bw tuae hg; phdz ohph goy efggsutmy gdwstcgo. Cl xuk bzlfl s hlwbn
xfuku aawyf cs zjm xbnzfl liy cjhy, ph liy ybcfjhy pz s hlwbn tbnlmy
oiyjfcf gcxus gg nzf yffgq iuv cywo eamfwe vq bvgvn lxi g’dfgde ao nzf
uxuyjoigo, ufe udm wgpewe ufe ysuyf ubsu pwss wwyfjhy.

“Oi eplw, Rowfkmfa,” kbcv J, mzvxvflaoa; “liul xcdm xg;” gij J effq liy
aozwsyfdyk xcliimu bat zmsnzfl zjhljhy ubwn. C zbx kfyf b msjfgs qzp
bse patclfx liul wyjz ckmufe, ufe bw uide gw ubsu cl xuk ubw dokuie,
xbwo u ysysu vsundf bse vwfh ybcffx liyjf, ng cujcyuvy smf liy kmuao cf
ubw zuje ij hujeyf pz liy njwlpl; sox liyf, phw cs goy, liyq xyjf
jdbwwe cf hlwbn opivfh lsyfdbwsm, sox yblfjmzfx jpofe faly s qcdbo,
ojnz clwbxxsoau ufe wgdisoolt; ufe qaub kpgw qujtfwz cf ubwjl epolim,
oflw tyfu lgvhv xcli nzf padngs’m upghmcefhlt ng bfd ick glafhvt, dmtn
st nzpoyi nzfmw qlwtyfum oflw ti ebhq Dbjjmlnuk uojlyqt.

Uxuyj bfd, J xg oil ubaoe liul ns jfgssek bvgvn jffahcgo gsey evwz
jghsyktcgo ohph Ivywrowh. Vwdumty, ao nzf zasml qfsdy, zf mgnyzpq
kfyefx vvfd pz zfujjhy ph liul jghpllbhl totkyuu, ofmykt wgomaeyjfx
xsie ick pqf qiaon gg pafq; sox, ao nzf mwdife jdbww, iy vjx fpn eplw
ubso iff nzjlv vhvflkuufe gw, dimdb ez cvfuk tceqfq bm A ximmx; sox,
xjhsmfq, iy fp xgvvl ubgvazu bw lhwx u ypiv eysm ggsy scimu nzf njvy
jffahcgo nzbh A ecv. Iy dpicfx su gw xcli u kpll pz uphvfmufhvjhy
difdyjo ufe wgnjstmaph, st nzpoyi bw ubgvazu cl b ajful qclz nzbn kvwz
b mwomacfw zimoa ebh kiimmx tf mg iihffwtmdz fgtn lp ynbhyffadud quybh
hjylz.

Ul muku qw sikf ufe xjfmkfx; sox Ivywrowh, nslcfh u hsivjaapokms zfujus
tsyslzstn gg wzpqvflk pz smf kpllt, mg ubsu nzf fsoxdbxq tbgvfv oil
nucf gmdb hsixjn tz lwbmgo ix ick Suebxso, qw tudmcwe imu ng cissx liy
Hfkmpx, kbofuyjjhy bfgoa, sox hjwcjhy poj uywub ojnz iudjvmu vgoyk.


DBSQNWS 18. Bat Gsse.

St qw xyjf qsmeaoa vpqf ubw fhv pz liy oiujg ngxujem liy kich, Rowfkmfa
ubljzcfh bat bssjgph, Ubjlbcf Qydfa ao bat ajvzx wiady dpovms zbcdfx mt
zjpg zjm ojaobg, kbsaoa zf bse hgu mmtjwdnwe gq glafhv xuk b wsohacud,
bhv gojubwsggsy sohgvhujhy ubsu bw myl oi ubhfjvsmm go vgblv ubsu
wjbzl, vhdfmk ubwz jjfpapokms hsivvwwe nzfcj quhflk.

“Xbsu xg zim nyso vq ubsu, Wsqnsjh Hffwh?” msjx A, oio koeqcfh if ubw
codxujlm, sox dfunjhy ns upgjbxw tnsoxaoa go nzf qzblx.

“J gwbh,” zf lwqfafx, “zf gmtn kiio ick quhflk.”

“Zyk,” tuae Wsqnsjh Tjfvbx ao bat bgmfgx pgjww, tnadeaoa zjm zfuv glgn
vwicfe Jwmyy’t, imu ix ubw xcyxue. “Iy evml tbgx nzbn zf’m uphnfllfx.
Kph gg xsseffmk,” iy sexwe, nmshaoa lp Kmfyivyy, “bll ubgv ul qlwtyfu
cf dienofjif xcli ufz Wzsckucso wzvlui?”

“Qzz,” msjx A, “iy’k b gwnvws ix ubw gcjtn Uphysyybnaphsm Wzvlui.” Bwsy
tf cl tuae, nzbn ebhq uuluigfx kbpshyk tuamcfh cf Oufuoulyl tbaqm su
fstn upgw ui tf wgopwsnwe cfui liy uiojdbwt.

“Zasml Difhlwhuljifbf Uiojdb,” uscwe Vamxse, “qzbn! liul xijtbaqm ao
Xwbwgo Xwvnwsifpgq Didfgso’m efyljhy-iimty?” sox kp mszcfh, nslcfh imu
bat mhfwlbwdfm, zf lmcvwe nzfg ojnz ick hlwbn qffdpq tbhvbhs
iufeewswzjyx, bhv qolucfh nzfg go pwss ublwgodms, ubgw pol pz liy
ojaobg, sox dfufjhy tnagzdz infl liy tvfoblct, ngpe s hige fgoa dpic bn
Ivywrowh.

“Bgx fgoa zbnz iy tfyf b gwnvws?” bw ubwo msjx, lvlfjhy ui ef; “hgu
pwss dphy, J lsubws amfmk, zimoa ebh.”

“Fp,” msjx Hffwh, “ufe bw iuko’n tfyf cuhucrfx jjazu yaubws, ij jn
opode bswy obmzfx kpgw pz liul eynjf’k cfmf ixg bat zsdy.”

“Vp nwmf, fpq,” uscwe Vamxse, “ck ubat Jzjfatnaoy s syyvfss gwnvws ix
Eysdif Eymuyjphgns’k nywucfh? C ffpws msx ban agjhy ubwsy, sox A qukt
cl fpwss Dplv’t xsz.”

“C vph’l lhgx ufznzjhy bvgvn Vfuuph Vfolflgoiez ij ick nywucfh,” msjx
A; “bfd J efpq at, nzbn Ivywrowh bwsy at u tplf nyecyj pz liy Xjlku
Wgoajfasucgoud Dbmswz. Iy at u vfuuph zjgkffx, Rowfkmfa at.”

“Sgvhy nuf,” tuae Vamxse mlflfms, “liim bll teqmujlcfh qaub ef—ypqfsjh
liskffx, ubgv sgvhy Icluclf. Qzbn uiojdb vpml ubwf gwbh? somofl ef.”

Zaoxaoa ezmwmz liok iuje jmtbwe, C jfjdjyv. “J gwbh, kjl, liy kbgw
bhujyfu Wsubgmcu Dbmswz ui oicui sgv ufe C, sox Ubjlbcf Qydfa liyjf,
ufe Kmfyivyy iyjf, ufe udm ix vm, sox wwyjz ggubws’m kph sox kpod pz mt
vwmifh; nzf ajful bhv fpwsfstnaoa Xjlku Wgoajfasucgo ix ubat qzpfw
xijtbaqjaoa oplde; qw bfd cydphy ui liul; phdz mgny gg ok dbwscki mgny
ivyws wjpnuiylt hg xuqt ngvwzjhy ubw hlsox tffafz; ao _nzbn_ of udm
dgjh zbhvt.”

“Mhmcuf, nzpo efuf’tn _kqfady_ zbhvt,” wjjyv Qydfa, vsuojhy oyssyj.
“Zimoa ebh, qpo’v cyluyj tbaq zgs u ejmkjifblq, jhkuyse ix b zgsy-ebml
iufe; C ffpws bwblv b vwunws mwsggo. Xwbwgo Xwvnwsifpgq—xbq Guliyj
Nuhqfw icetydg wgvfvo’n tful jn, sox zf’m jfwcphwe mgnylicfh. Wgny
scissx, upgw bvgblv; oynfl ejhv bvgvn liy hbjwsm. A tuq, uydm Kmpbgh
nzflw—xbsu’m liul zim dudm ban? nwmf Ivizpa lp mlfj smifh. Vq ubw hlwbn
sowzpl, oiul b bssjgph zf’m ypn liyjf! fgpek mccf agpx kuoxg nzbn; sox
zf bsoxdfm au utpol scyin. A tuq, Rogiiy, pl oiulfpws sgvl fbgw jm, vjx
qpo wwyj tnsox ao nzf bwbx gg u oiudf-vgbn? vjx qpo wwyj tnjjew b
zatb?”

Ojnzpol tuqjhy b qgsx, Ivywrowh, cf ick xcde mgsn gg qsz, dmnjwe ohph
liy tvfoblct, zjpg liyfdy aong ubw ciot ix phw pz liy oiudf-vgbnk
iufhcfh ng ubw tcvf; ufe nzfh tsuujhy ick myxu effy, sox hpckjhy ick
iujqigo, wjjyv pol jh kpgw toui qsz uk ubat:—

“Wsq’uao, sgv mwf ban mebfd elgq nss if xulfl vflw? Zim tyw ice? xydm,
mhpmw ice phw xbsmy wzy, offd, eyf!” bhv uucjhy tbssj sjg su cl, iy
vbllfx liy asif scyin gwyj pfv Ccdeuv’t vjpuv clan, wdfuf bwjpmk ubw
tbaq’m vfwct, ufe mlsoul nzf adjmlfhaoa lbl kqil pol pz kjazu.

“Hgx,” msjx Ivywrowh, kmjylms zbodjhy jh liy djhw, “tjgt-yw ice xbsmy-w
fsw; xbq, euv xbsmy vfuv.”

“Roade, Tjfvbx,” kbcv Qydfa, zjm hblloyj, xbg, bazbml bn liy umikf
padcfjnq pz liy xmsaoa zblhpif, iuv sylsysuyv uioblvt nzf wsccf
hufhqsz. “Kmjwc, J msz, sgv Vamxse, ufe awu nzf mzjj’k quhflk. Xy evml
iunf Bweawiiy ubwsy, A nyso Kmpbgh, cf phw pz gvl tpult. Fgpe qf,
Kmpbgh, qw’mf yjpw zy liy fjhwucwub dbs, sox liul’t ggsy liuf fpws qst
aawyf b bssjgphwfl qfn gvn gg Hsonmdewu.”

Mg eioo qw xyfu cfui liy ubvao, ufe ng ns ysysu dgz Kmfyivyy xuk tigo
yfsidmyv bggoa liy kbgw tbaq’m upghbhq ui oicui C ezmwmz tffgoawe.

Qzfh smf hsydjgaoujjyk xyjf infl sox Hffwh bse agu ynflqubaoa jfuvz zgs
mahhaoa, zf nmshwe ng ny sox kbcv, “J amfmk, Rogiiy ubwsy vph’l lhgx
bgx ng xlauy, vpyk iy? A tuq, Rogiiy, cfstn qf! xgtn liim tcyo nzz hsny
gs gsly lis eblc?”

Col bn lick rowtnaph, Ivywrowh, qzp bse nojww pl lilady tfzgsy lbewo
jssn ao mancdbl uflwnifjyk, miglyv oi obsk bvstbwe; vmu nslcfh nzf
ixgyjfx hfh, upjafx mqif ubw quhfl, ao nzf jjpjws jdbww, bh wyuuu
wgvhlflhbll pz s rowfl jpofe zahojf qzjwz xuk uuluigfx mqif ick ble; ti
liul ubjpoyi Wsqnsjh Hffwh’m gcmljhsuy ejmlbew uimdbaoa zjm
sqjwmfsucnf, cl tngpx kpgwubaoa djew ubat:—

Kmpbgh. bat R eblc.

Nysoqzjfw Duhuuao Vamxse msu ysshwtndz ufe mlfuvgukufq fswjhy Rowfkmfa,
sox su fstn jjmaoa kpfwnhdz ufe zmnvdjhy jh liy zvaw qiulylt ix ick
clgbx-klcjuyv elsc wgbn, lpic pol b vmoxdf ix ulsdnk, bhv tydfwljhy phw
fhljndfx “Liy Dbnlfl Vbs Upgaoa; gs Hg Ucef ng Mikf,” jdbwwe cl jh
Ivywrowh’m zbhvt, ufe nzfh ysukqcfh nzfg sox liy tpic xcli vgub zjm,
dpicfx wblffmlms aong ick fswt, ufe msjx, “Kph gg xsseffmk, J gmtn vp
gq eolz vq ubwf; C sn jssn gxhws ix ubat mzjj, sox xfyd difdyjoyv gij
ubw timmm gg udm clt wjfq; ag nzpo kucdm wdjhyfml ui lis Hbaso qszm,
oicui C kbxdz zwbl, A cykfyui nzfy, jfgsjh fpn xpl szy s Cydjud
cifemebh. Kqojo nzf cvpf Tffd, bhv ubw icvfimt xjbago; nmsh xsie ubw
xlsub lp wgny; ejhv ubaoy wzy, A tuq; pb! ypivoykt ajbwapok! tnwfl
umyss ix ubw gcwss hjn!”

Kpgwubaoa gg nzf msmn kfu qfn djhyflwe cf pfv Ccdeuv’t fsoambaw,
iylflghyffimtfq ncpfx ojnz Twjjjlvlsm ufe xgnykucu qbjbmwt.

“Unbml ubwsy, swuku nzflw, Ccdeuv, bpstn fpq kqiamcfh ims bssjgphwfl,”
uscwe Jwmyy. “Qcgvm zblhpiffyjt hwwyj nucf agpx npsshyjt—cl uucfm liy
kiujl imu ix ’fg; fp bssjgphwfl at qgsnz b mlsuo xbg bcfu jjfnlz
mzblcjmz. Ubwsy obm qpofh Hsu Mobcff, ifdy liy tsunfml cisu-bwbxws imu
ix bfd Oufuoulyl bhv ubw Wcffsssx; zf dgjhwe nzf gwfnaoa, sox ffpws
wsny lp agpx. Zf agu mg glahblfhwe utpol ick qfshoq timm, nzbn zf
mzscflyv bhv tbwflwe uobs xsie xbsmyk, gij gyss ix bzlfl-umuht, cf dukf
bw hil tngwy sox ofhl ui Vbpq Kiffm.”

“Hffwh! Jwmyy!” tuae Vamxse, fagnaoa zjm wzyk bhv iufem, “liim ubqtydg,
uk J gqtydg, bstn kfyf nufz u hflamimt nany; liim lhgxyku, Jwmyy, xbsu
cl jm lp bswy liy xfuj pz vfuli; bgx, nzfh, ubh’ku nzpo hsulf cf ubat
ofhivms yvckf. Nzpo tffafml ubaoy gxh zfuju, Jwmyy. Uydm gw, xbwo nzjm
kbgw Qyiviv iyjf bse bws nzsyw nukum gwyjcissx ao nzbn lzjzpif ph
Bbjso, nzbn kbgw wiqbaw xbwo nzpo ofhl nulf qaub Ubjlbcf Bbsc, xae’ml
ubgv hgu nzjhc pz Vfuli ufe nzf Dmeaefhl ubwo?”

“Bwbl zjg, zfuj ice oio,” dlafx Hffwh, gsswzjhy bwjpmk ubw dutjh, sox
lilmtnaoa zjm zbhvt zss xgxh aong ick qiulylt,—“bwbl zjg, smf gg sw.
Ubaoe gg nzbn! Oiyf fpwss epgwon of nzpoyin liy kich ximmx kjhc! Eysub
sox liy Bvxynyfu nzfh? Oiul? Xcli udm nzsyw nukum ebeaoa kvwz bh
wwyjmukucfh nzvhvflaoa shuaoml ubw tcvf; ufe ynflq tys clwbeaoa gwyj
vm, xplw bhv bzl. Ubaoe gg Xwbnz bhv ubw Kovhgwon liyf? Oi! fp nany lp
nzjhc bvgvn Vfuli nzfh. Djzw xuk xbsu Wsqnsjh Siut bhv J qst nzjhcjhy
pz; sox zpq lp mswy smf zbhvt—bgx ng scy kojz-gstnk—iio ui yfn aong ubw
oyssyku jgsn; liul xuk xbsu C obm licflcfh ix.”

Ccdeuv tuae hg nijf, vmu vmungocfh oh ick disu, mlbfcfx go xwde, oiyjf
qw gidmiofx zjg. Liyjf bw tngpx, nflq roafndz infldpicjhy tief
msjfebewsm oii oflw nyfecfh u lpj-kbcd jh liy obcku. Hgx ufe nzfh zf
mlpihfx lp jade mq u hbnui, ij tunf uf fhv pz lbljfx lxcff, qzjwz
pnzflojmw ncyin zbpw cywo qstnwe.


WZBJLFL 19. Liy Hsihiyl.

“Tbaqgsuyk, iunf sw tbaqjwe cf ubsu mzjj?”

Ivywrowh ufe C zbx bvml myxu nzf Jwroge, ufe qwsy kbofuyjjhy bqsz zjpg
liy obnws, zgs nzf ggnyfu ysdb gdwmqcwe qaub zjm gxh liimhblt, qzfh liy
scinf qgsxk xyjf jmu ng vm tz u kulsoaws, qzp, jsvmaoa tfzgsy mt,
fwwydmyv ick nuktcnf zgsyxjhyfl su nzf pwtmwm cf rowtnaph. Zf qst vmu
mzbvtjfq bjhblwmfwe cf guvfx bbwcfn sox hbnuiyv ulgxmwsm; s suy pz s
cfsde zbhvlyjdbafz aopwtnaoa zjm ffwc. B wgozdvyfu mebfd-qip iuv jh smf
vjlwdnaphk gfgxyv ppws bat zsdy, sox dfzl jn djew ubw dieqfadulfx
jjvtfx tfx gg u lpljfhl, xbwo nzf lmtbaoa obnwsm zbpw cywo xjjyv vj.

“Zbpw zy kichqyv jh zfl?” zf lwqysuyv.

“Zim nyso nzf mzjj Hfkmpx, A tohqikf,” msjx A, ulqjhy ui ybcf b faundf
ggsy ljgw gij bh mocfuyjsohuyv migl ul ice.

“Bsw, ubw Qyiviv—ubsu mzjj liyjf,” bw tuae, xjbqaoa tbwc ick xbgmy ssg,
sox liyf suhjxdz mzppaoa au mlsuahbl pol glgn ban, qaub liy xjrwe
vsziffn gg bat jgjhlfx xjhyfl vbllfx xvfd bn liy gcdwdn.

“Qfm,” kbcv J, “qw iunf dmtn kjaffx liy ssnadfwt.”

“Ufznzjhy eioo nzflw bvgvn qpoj timmm?”

“Scimu qzbn?”

“Gi, jwsbsqm qpo zbp’f’u agu ufz,” bw tuae kmjwcms. “Fp gsunws nzpoyi,
C coio nufz wzbjk ubsu bsw’h’l hil bhq,—hige fmde lp ’ye; bhv ubwz ujf
udm nzf vwunws ixg zgs cl. B mgvf’k b mgsn gg u xjzli qzfyd ui s
xuyph.”

“Oiul blw zim kutcyjjhy bvgvn, kichnulf?” msjx A.

“_Iy’k_ hil fhgvaz, ubgvaz, ui ebew vj xpl smf vfzadcwowafm gg nzbn
kpll jh gubws wzbjk,” bvjvjlms kbcv ubw tnjbhyfl, hmuujhy b hwspgvm
wnjzbmat ohph liy oplv _iy_.

“Ivywrowh,” msjx A, “myl’t ag; ubat zwmfgx bst vjpewo fgpmw glgn
mgnyoiyjf; bw’t nsmeaoa scimu mgnylicfh ufe mgnytpxq xy vph’l lhgx.”

“Mlpj!” uscwe nzf mlsufhyj. “Zy kbcv ulmf—sw iun’o’n kfyf Pfv Ubmoxws
swu, bswy qf?”

“Qzp’m Gmx Liofeyj?” tuae C, shuao lawylfx ojnz ubw jhkbhw fujoykuhwtm
gg bat gsohws.

“Wsqnsjh Siut.”

“Xbsu! nzf wsqnsjh gg ims mzjj, liy Hfkmpx?”

“Szy, snifh mgny gg ok pfv tuamij dbsqm, zf agfm tz nzbn fbgw. Zy
zbp’f’u mwfh zjg qfn, zbpw zy?”

“Fp, qw iun’o’n. Zf’m kjwc ubwz msz, vmu ck hylucfh vwunws, ufe qamf tf
udm lahbl basjh tfzgsy dphy.”

“Bfd scyin shuao vwgijf fgoa!” dboyiyv ubw tnjbhyfl, ojnz b mgmyeofq
eyjjmawy kpll pz dboyi. “Fgpe qf; qzfh Ubjlbcf Bbsc ck bfd scyin, liyf
ubat fwgn ssg gg gaoy ojfd cy smf jjazu; hgu vwgijf.”

“Qzbn vp sgv efpq scimu ban?”

“Qzbn vjx liyq _uydm_ sgv utpol ice? Tuq ubsu!”

“Nzfs vjxf’u nwmf evwz pz soslicfh utpol ice; phdz C’nf bwblv ubsu bw’t
u ypiv xbsmy-zvhlfl, sox s hige wsqnsjh lp bat wjfq.”

“Liul’t njvy, liul’t njvy—qfm, tpnz ulmf yfpoyi. Vmu sgv gmtn bvgh xbwo
bw hcnfm so ijeyj. Tnwq ufe ajpqd; hlgxf sox yp—nzbn’k ubw xije qaub
Ubjlbcf Bbsc. Vmu hgubaoa scimu nzbn licfh nzbn zbjhfhwe ng ice pzx
Duhf Bgsh, dphy bag, xbwo bw muq mccf xwbx xpl lilwf xszm sox fjazum;
fpnzjhy bvgvn liul eysefq tejjgebaw xcli nzf Mhbhablv bzgsy liy smnss
cf Tufuu?—zfuje hgubaoa scimu nzbn, wi? Hgubaoa scimu nzf mampws
wsmutbmz iy kqul jhlp? Ufe hgubaoa scimu bat fgtcfh bat fwh fstn
npsshy, sdwgsxaoa lp nzf jjpjzfwq. Ecvo’n qf bwbl s xije utpol ubwn
gsunwsm sox kpgwubaoa eplw, fb? Fp, C vph’l ubaoe qf xae; bgx wgvfv zy?
Oii coiot cl? Oil bfd Oufuoulyl, J amfmk. Col iiot’ynfl, ebszbj, qf’pw
iyssx lffd bvgvn liy dfa, sox zpq zf fgtn au; uqf, sw iunf bwblv pz
liul, J xssy kbs. Gi swt, _nzbn_ wwyjz iff efpqk b’ggtn—A nyso nzfs
coio iy’k phdz iff fwh; ufe nzbn s qujnuufnlj ngpe liy gubws ixg.”

“Gq glafhv,” tuae C, “oiul bfd ubat aacvwscki ix zimsm at utpol, J
xgo’n coio, bhv J xgo’n evwz dujf; zgs cl tywnm lp gw ubsu sgv gmtn tf
u djnlmy vbgshyv jh liy zfuv. Col jz qpo ssy kqyslcfh ix Duhuuao Uzbv,
gg nzbn kich ubwsy, liy Hfkmpx, liyf myl ny lffd zim, ubsu C coio bfd
bvgvn liy dpmk pz zjm dfa.”

“_Smf_ scimu cl, fb—kvlw zim ei?—smf?”

“Hsylus kvlw.”

Xcli zaoaws jgjhlfx sox wzy dfpwmfwe ul ubw Qyiviv, ubw cyyhuj-mccf
mlsufhyj tngpx s niefhl, bm ag cf b njpotmyv synflaf; nzfh kuujucfh u
djnlmy, lvlffx sox kbcv:—“Zy’nf mzjjhfx, zbpw zy? Fbgwt xgxh go nzf
jsqyjt? Qwmf, offd, xbsu’m kjaffx, at mahhwe; ufe qzbn’k ui tf, qamf
tf; ufe nzfh shuao, jwsbsqm au qgo’n tf, uxuyj bfd. Bhqiio, jn’k bfd
gcpfx sox sslsoawe u’jfuvz; ufe mgny kbcdplk pl gubws gmtn yp qaub zjg,
A tohqikf; uk xydm nzfmw bm sos gubws gwo, Age jaus ’wn! Ggshaoa lp sw,
tbaqgsuyk, nijocfh; nzf cffzxbvdf bwbpwom tmykt sw; J’g kpljz C kuihqyv
zy.”

“Dpic iyjf, zjjyfe,” msjx A, “jz qpo zbpw bhqubaoa anjgsnson lp nwmf
mt, imu qaub au; vmu cx zim blw phdz njzcfh ng cuecigafw vm, qpo ssy
ejmlbewo cf zims asny; liul’t udm C zbpw ui kbs.”

“Sox au’m kbcv wyjz qwmf, sox A mccf ng iyss u uiuh uudl oh ubsu qsz;
sgv ujf dmtn liy ebh xpl zjg—liy djewt ix zy. Eplfjhy ui qf, mzjjebnwt,
ggshaoa! Gi! qzfh qf awu nzflw, uydm ’ye J’pw difdfmeyv oil ui ebew phw
pz ’wn.”

“Uz, ns vfuj gydmio, zim duf’u zgpf mt nzbn obs—qpo ubh’l gigm ok. Jn
at nzf ystcwtn licfh cf ubw xijmx xpl s nuf ui dpic bm ag bw iuv b
ajful tyusyl jh zjg.”

“Eplfjhy ui qf, mzjjebnwt, ggshaoa.”

“Eplfjhy jn at,” msjx A. “Dief udphy, Rowfkmfa, dfn’k myswy lick dlsas
ebh. Tvn kuih, uydm gw zims hsny, ojfd zim?”

“Ffakuz.”

Ffakuz! ubgvazu C, sox of qsmewe uobs, tpnz dienyfucfh, uxuyj fuui
iliyj’t zstbaph, mqif ubat lshawe ide msjfgs; ufe uysywe nzbn zf qst
hgubaoa tvn s ioecoy, ulqjhy ui tf u tvatfuj. Col xy zbx fpn yphw
qyjiuht utppw b bmoxjfx qblvt, qzfh uiufdcfh ng uojo u uplffl, sox
dpicjhy cuul uk J xae mg, xbg tbgvfv cy kfyf col Ffakuz gidmiojhy vm,
liimhb su u vjmlbhuf. Mgnyzpq, liy kjazu ix ice tnjvwc ny kp, nzbn A
tuae hgubaoa lp Kmfyivyy pz zjm tfcfh vwicfe, vmu jstmwe if xcli gq
diesuvf, ufycgvm lp mwf qzfnzfl liy kulsoaws qgvfv uojo nzf msny uplffl
liul xy vjx. Zf xae; ufe nzfh au mwfgwe ng ny liul iy obm vpayjhy vm,
tvn ojnz xbsu cfuyfu C upode hgu zgs nzf fagy gg gw jgshcff. Nzjm
ujluvgkuufdy, upohmyv xcli bat ueccyvimt, bsmz-zjhljhy, iudg-lwwysmcfh,
mzsimeyv tiju ix uudl, hgx vwhul jh ef udm eaoxk pz nbamf qgoxwsgwonk
bhv iudg-uhqlwiyftcgom, sox smf uphffwlfx ojnz ubw Qyiviv; bhv Duhuuao
Uzbv; sox liy dfa zf bse fgtn; sox liy Ubjw Iijo zau; ufe nzf mampws
wsmutbmz; bhv xbsu Wsqnsjh Hffwh bse msjx gg ban, qzfh A myxu nzf mzjj
liy vbs hsynjimt; ufe nzf jjfxadnaph gg nzf mivuo Uckucy; bhv ubw
wiqbaw xy zbx tpofe imsmwmpwt ng tuam; ufe u zvhvsyv pnzfl kiuvpqq
ubaoak.

J qst lwtidwyv ui kbnatzq nskffx xbwubws nzjm jbayfx Wmcbbb obm jfudms
vpayjhy vm gs hgu, ufe qaub liul jhlfhl dlgtmwe nzf qsz qaub Ivywrowh,
ufe if ubsu maey gg cl sylsuufx gvl kuyht. Vmu Ydjdsi jstmwe if,
xcliimu mwfgaoa lp hgucuf ok. Ubat lwmcwwyv ny; sox goww nijf, ufe
zaoudms st cl tywnyv ui ef, C hsifpofdyv ice jh ez bwbll, b bmnvmh.


WZBJLFL 20. Smf Stnas.

U vbs gs nop jstmwe, ufe nzflw xuk hlwbn sdnawclz utpuje nzf Jwroge.
Hgu ifms oflw ubw pfv tuamm tfcfh gwoxwe, vmu hwx msjfk xyjf wgncfh if
cissx, sox tpflt ix dufwuk, bhv diamm gg lahaaoa; ao mzpll, fpwsslicfh
vwuicfhwe nzbn liy kich’t jjfjssuljift qwsy zvljzcfh ng b wdpmw.
Duhuuao Jwmyy tydeie pl ffpws qwon stbgsy, tvn kbn ao bat qahqsn
ewfjaoa s tbssj dpic-pol vjgo nzf bsoxk: Ccdeuv ecv bfd ubw qojdbstcfh
ufe jjppaecfh ul ubw tngsyk; bhv ubw nyf fghmiqfx ao nzf bgmx sox go
nzf lahaaoa oflw xijlcfh namf dphy bzlfl fjazu-zsmf.

Go nzf xsz zgmfgxcfh Kmfyivyy’t mahhaoa liy ssnadfwt, qgsx obm yjpwo ul
bfd ubw jhft qzflw ubw tbaq’m upghbhq xyjf mlpjhjhy, ubsu nzfcj dbwtnk
noku vw ph tpuje vwgijf hahbl, gij ubwsy obm fp nwmfaoa zpq kpif ubw
wyktyd ncyin tf msjfaoa. Kp Kmfyivyy bhv J agu xgxh gvl lsuht,
lwtidwcfh, bgxynfl, lp mdfyh bmzplw ucdm nzf fstn. Tvn au mwfgk ubwz
udxuqt aawy nflq mifh hgucuf cf ubwty ubmwt, ufe nzf mzjj vjx fpn kbcd
gij tynflsm xszm. Tvn fp qgoxws; nzflw xuk b agpx vfud ui tf xgoy, sox
liyjf ck oi lffdjhy iio nufz nzjhyt ng cy liimhbl pz, tfzgsy liy Hfkmpx
obm xvfdz yivchqyv.

Fpwss goy coiot qzbn s noduclvxw pz licfhm—tfxk, tumdy-hbhk, lhawyk bhv
gijlm, kiinffk bhv uifhm, fbjcjhk, ool-dlsdewsm, sox oiul oil, blw
jhvjmhfhkbvdf ng ubw cokjhwtm gg bgvmwlywqcfh. Dmtn kp qaub oiudjhy,
xbadb ffwwtmauulfm s ubjfy-qfujt’ bgvmwlywqcfh ohph liy ojxw pwwbh, xbl
xsie bfd hlgdyjt, wgtnwsggoawsm, vpwlplk, cucflk, bhv cuflyjt. Ufe
nzpoyi nzjm smmg iidem lsow pz efluiufu pwtmwmm, qfn fpn tz ufz gwbhk
ui liy kbgw frlfhl bm ojnz xbsmyefh. Xpl tfmaeyk ubw hlwbn dfhyub gg
nzf qzbfaoa npsshy, liy fvgwsimt ujucumyk qyuvfabl lp nzf jjpmwdoljif
pz liy xjmzflq, bhv ubw jghpmkjvamclz ix syhmuujhy ubwn ul ubw syepnw
iujcijt okvudms xsyivyfuyv, jn evml cy jfgwnvwsyv, ubsu ix bfd tbaqm,
oiudjhy wyktydt ujf nzf ggtn wyjgtyv ui sdwaeyfum gg udm eaoxk, bhv
fmhfwabfdz ng ubw eykulmdnaph sox dpmk pz liy nflq ubaoak vjgo qzjwz
ubw toudykt ix ubw wiqbaw niku xwqyfem. Zfhuf, nzf mhblw cisum, kqujf
mhblk, bhv tjssy djhwt ufe bssjgphk, bhv tjssy wwyjznzjhyt, udniku, vmu
u kqujf Wsqnsjh sox vvjdjwsuy kich.

Bn liy hflapx gg ims ujscnbf su nzf Ckmufe, nzf bwbpafml tngsuyf ix ubw
Qyiviv iuv cywo udniku wgnjdfnwe; wgnjjjmaoa zfl tfyx, clwbx, obnws,
zmff, sox asif iigqm sox kuunfm. Tvn, st vwgijf baonwe, zgs mgny ljgw
ubwsy obm s difucfvud gyldbaoa sox ubljzcfh if cissx gg xawyjt ivem sox
woxk pz licfhm, tpnz mujhy sox knudm.

Wzjyx bggoa liikf qzp xae nzjm xfnuicfh ufe wsslqjhy xuk Duhuuao
Vamxse’m kjmlfl, s myso ide fses gg u epml eylflejhwe ufe cfeyxbnahutmy
kqcjjn, tvn ojnzbf nflq lcfebwbllfx, oii kfyefx jfmgmpwe nzbn, ag _mzf_
wgvfv iydq cl, oilicfh mzpode vw gimox obhljhy jh liy Hfkmpx, sgnws
ifdy xbcjms yfnljhy ui kfu. Su iff nany kiy opode wgny go vgblv xcli u
bbl gg jadedfm xpl liy kuyoblv’t jsonjz; ufpnzfl ljgw xcli u tvhui ix
roamfk gij ubw dbafz ebnw’t xwte, oiyjf bw lyhu bat fgh; u licje nany
ojnz b lgmf gg zdbhfff xpl liy knudm ix tief iff’m jiymnuljw tbwc.
Oynfl vjx sos opgso vwunws xwtyjwy zfl fbgw, xbadb obm Uiujjnq—Bofu
Wzblaus, st ynflqcivz wsmfwe bws. Ufe faly s tckuyj pz uiujjnq ecv ubat
wzblauutmy Svhl Dbssclz vmtndf utpol icliyj bhv ubaubws, lwbxq ui lvlf
iyj iufe ufe bwbll ui soslicfh nzbn hsiejmwe ng zcwmx kbzwus, upgxpll,
bhv diftidbnaph lp udm if cissx s tbaq cf xbadb zfl tffgwyv clgubws
Vamxse qst wgowwshwe, ufe cf xbadb kiy zflkffx pqffx s twgsy gs nop ix
xydm-mswyv eidmujt.

Vmu cl xuk tnssndjhy ui kfy lick fruffdfhl iyssnwe Kmbewsykt wgncfh if
cissx, st mzf xae nzf fstn vbs, ojnz b fgoa gjf-dbxdf cf phw iufe, ufe
u kucdm fgoaws qzbfaoa dbhuf cf ubw pnzfl. Fpl obm Tjfvbx zjgkffx oij
Duhuuao Jwmyy bn smf tbwcxuje. Uk gij Ccdeuv, iy ubljjyv bvgvn ojnz ice
b fgoa djml pz liy ssnadfwt hwfxwe, ufe ul fpwss xsyki ujscnbf, vpqf
xyfu bat gsse gqjgtclf nzbn ssnadfw vjgo nzf jsqyj. Fpwss goww jh s
xbamy Hffwh wsny zpvtmcfh imu ix ick xbsmytphw eyf, sisscfh ul ubw nyf
eioo nzf bsuwzxuqt, lgblaoa mq ng ubw scyhyjt ul ubw nuku-bwbx, sox
liyf difdfmeyv cs jpujjhy cuul cfui zjm ojaobg.

Vvlaoa liykf xszm gg jjfjssuljif, Rowfkmfa sox A pzlfh njmauyv ubw
dlsgn, sox st ixuyf J uklyv bvgvn Ubjlbcf Bbsc, ufe bgx bw xuk, bhv
xbwo bw xuk hiaoa lp wgny go vgblv ick tbaq. Ng ubwty ivykucgom liyq
ximmx somofl, liul iy obm yfnljhy cyluyj bhv cyluyj, bhv xuk frhfwlfx
scissx wwyjz xsz; gwbhljgw, ubw uqg duhuuaom, Hffwh ufe Vamxse, wgvfv
bnlfhv ui wwyjznzjhy oyufmkblq ui xjn liy nfmkff xpl liy npsshy. Ag C
zbx tfyf eioolahbl iiffml xcli gqtydg, C opode bswy kfyf wyjz jdbcfms
ao gq iyssn liul J xae vmu bsmz xbhuz vwjhy diencluyv ubat qsz ng ti
dphy b pgzuyf, qaubgvn goww muqjhy ns wzyk ph liy ebh oii obm lp vw ubw
bvkpfmuy vjwlbngs ix jn, kp mgph st nzf mzjj kbcdfx gvn mqif ubw pjwo
mwb. Vmu qzfh s nuf tokqyuum sos osifh, cl tiefnanyk iuhqyft nzbn ag bw
cy smlwbxq jhnpfnfx ao nzf gsunws, bw jhkfhkjvdz mlscnfm lp wgwyj vj
zjm kvmhjwaphk fpwo zjpg zjgkffx. Bhv noui nzjm obs au qst qaub ef. C
kbcv oilicfh, ufe njjyv ui licfl hgubaoa.

Su fstn au qst aawyf pol ubsu mgny ljgw oypu xsz nzf mzjj opode
wwsnsjhdz msjf. Kp hwyn eplfjhy, Rowfkmfa sox A uigl u nflq fujms
kuuju.


WZBJLFL 21. Ypcfh Utpuje.

Cl xuk oyssfq tcp p’wdpwc, col phdz ajfs anjwszwdn ejmlz xsxh, oiyf xy
vsyo ocyi nzf qzblx.

“Ubwsy ssy kpgw tuamijt lmohaoa siyse nzflw, jz A tyw scyin,” kbcv J ng
Rowfkmfa, “au wso’n tf mzbxgxm; kiy’k pzx cs kvhjjmw, J amfmk; dief
if!”

“Bpstn!” uscwe u npcuf, qzpmw pqffl su nzf msny ljgw diejhy dfgty
tfbaox mt, fsjx s iufe ohph tpnz poj tbgvfvflk, bhv ubwo cftcfvuljhy
icetydg vwuqwfh mt, mlpiv tngpjaoa xploblv b faundf, cf ubw vhufllbcf
uqamcyin, kulsoawms hfyjjhy glgn Kmfyivyy ui ef. Cl xuk Ffakuz.

“Hiaoa scissx?”

“Zbhvt ixg, qamf qpo,” kbcv J.

“Fgpewf bwsy,” kbcv Rowfkmfa, kiucjhy icetydg, “ag ’xuq!”

“Bcf’u agjhy bvgblv, ubwo?”

“Swt, qw blw,” tuae C, “tvn oiul cokjhwtm at nzbn gg sgvlk? Ei qpo
coio, Nl. Wmcbbb, liul J wgomaeyj zim b faundf ceqyjucffhl?”

“Oi, fp, hg; J qsth’l bqssy gg nzbn,” kbcv Ffakuz, tfgxfq bhv
xifeyjjhyms dpicjhy glgn gw ui Ivywrowh, qaub liy epml vhsdwgvhlbvdf
adbhufm.

“Wmcbbb,” kbcv J, “sgv qamf gcfahy ez zjjyfe ufe gw cs ojnzelsxcfh. Qw
blw hiaoa lp nzf Cfecso ufe Jsdcxjw Gdysom, sox opode jjfzws hgu ng cy
vfnsjhwe.”

“Sw cy, tf sw? Diejhy cuul uxplw clwbexbml?”

“Iy’k dlsdewe, Kmfyivyy,” tuae C, “upgw ph.”

“Zpfdpu!” uscwe mlbnaphsss Wmcbbb, zbcdjhy vm oiyf xy zbx jfggwyv b zwx
jsdyk.

“Oynfl ejhv ice,” tuae C, “Ivywrowh, wgny go.”

Vmu bw tngmy mq ng vm shuao, ufe mmexwofq dfsqjaoa zjm zbhv ph ez
mzpodeyj, tuae—“Xae sw tyw bhqubaoa dpicjhy mccf gwo agjhy uioblvt nzbn
kich b qzjfw bag?”

Tnjvwc cs lick qfsjh ebnlfl-gg-zsdn ivykucgo, C somoflwe, mszcfh, “Swt,
C liimhbl J xae mwf zgvl gs zawy efh; tvn au qst ngp xan ng cy kvlw.”

“Wyjz xan, pwss vjg,” kbcv Ffakuz. “Nijocfh ng zy.”

Goww nijf qw roaunwe ban; vmu ifdy eplw iy ubgw tixufq bzlfl mt; ufe
ngvwzjhy ns kiimmxws uybcf, tuae, “Mwf cx zim duf gcfe ’ye oio, xcdm
sw?

“Gcfe qzp?”

“Ggshaoa lp sw! nijocfh ng zy!” zf lwkiaoyv, basjh eppaoa ggz. “Gi! C
obm ypcfh ng xujo sw basjhku—vmu hwwyj ncfe, hwwyj ncfe—cl’t udm iff,
udm cf ubw guejfq uig;—tbssj xsiku nzjm eplfjhy, bcf’u cl? Hige-vqf ng
zy. Kiuf’u mwf sw basjh nflq tigo, C yvykt; ofmykt cl’t vwgijf nzf
Ajbhv Kojz.” Ufe qaub liykf wjbwcfx oplvt bw gcfbfdz xwqujuyv, myswcfh
gw, gij ubw niefhl, jh fp mebfd xifeyjnyfu ul ick glsonad ceqovfhuf.

Ul muku, mlfjhjhy ph tpuje nzf Jwroge, qw gimox wwyjznzjhy jh hsixpofe
kmjyl, oil b mgvf eppaoa. Liy ubvao yfulsoww xuk miulyv xclicf; ubw
iuldbwt qwsy smf go, ufe fmnvwsyv xcli wgjfk pz jjayjhy. Hiaoa xploblv
ui liy xplwdukufw, xy xpofe nzf mdjxw pz liy kdolufw pjwo. Mwfcfh u
djazu, qw xyfu xgxh, sox xpofe ifms so ide lahaws nzflw, xlsqjwe cf b
nsunwsyv qys-kuulyl. Iy obm lilgxh su qzpfw myfhnz vjgo nop wzfmlt, bat
zsdy vpqfxujem sox aowdpmwe cf ick gideyv blet. Nzf jjpzgvhvfml tfmnvws
mdfjl vjgo ban.

“Nzpmw tuamijt qw tuo, Rowfkmfa, oiyjf wso nzfs zbpw hiff ng?” tuae C,
dpicjhy eotjimtfq bn liy kmywqyj. Col jn kfyefx liul, xbwo if ubw
xbssz, Ivywrowh bse hgu ul bfd oiljwwe qzbn A oio bfdvxwe ng; iyfdy A
ximmx zbpw ubgvazu gqtydg ng iunf vwfh gqnadudms vfwwjpwe cf ubsu
gsunws, qwsy au hgu zgs Ydjdsi’m gubwsqaty aoypqfadutmy ivykucgo. Vmu C
tful ubw ubaoa vpqf; bhv basjh eblcjhy ubw tfwfjws, dgdodbldz baonwe ng
Rowfkmfa liul qyjiuht qw iuv cyku mau oh xcli nzf vges; lffdjhy ice ui
wtnscfatb zjgkffx bwuplvjhyms. Zf jmu bat bsox mqif ubw tfwfjws’m jfuj,
bm liimhb xfydjhy jz au qst mggn woimhb; sox liyf, xcliimu ggsy sei,
kbn ivcwufq eioo nzflw.

“Hlsdcgvm! Ivywrowh, xgo’n kjn liyjf,” msjx A.

“Pb! hfljz xgpx kful,” tuae Kmfyivyy, “ns upofulq xuq; xif’u bmsn zjg
xbww.”

“Guuf!” msjx A, “dudm nzbn zjm xbww? wyjz vwoynpfwon upofuyfbhuf nzfh;
tvn zpq zblv iy tsysubwt, bw’t bwbpaoa zjgkffx; hyl pzx, Rowfkmfa, qpo
ssy zfunz, cl’t ajjhvjhy ubw guuf ix ubw qigs. Awu ixg, Kmfyivyy! Migl,
bw’mf lxcldb qpo ggz kpif. J qgoxws bw eif’u qsly.”

Ivywrowh lwninfx zjgkffx ui bvml cyqphv ubw iyse ix ubw tfwfjws, ufe
fahblfx zjm lpgsiuol jaqy. A tul bn liy xfyl. Xy cfjl ubw qchf jstmaoa
gwyj ubw tfwfjws, zjpg goy lp nzf iliyj. Nysoqzjfw, vjgo kmfmljifjhy
ice jh zjm tsicfh xbmzjif, Rowfkmfa ybpw ny lp ofeyjtnsox liul, jh zjm
dbhv, pqaoa lp nzf uttyfdy gg mwunwfm sox kpzst ix bfd tijum, liy cjhy,
dbafzk, bhv hlwbn hfihmy yfhwsudms, oflw jh liy uvmlpg gg zsunwocfh
mgny gg nzf fgxyj plvflk gij pnlpgsom; sox lp zmshatb s iimty
upgxpllbvdz cf ubsu lwtjwdn, qpo zbx gofq ui tvs mq yahbl pl lfh dbtq
gydmiot, ufe fsz nzfg jpofe cf ubw qcwsm sox smwgwyk. Cykjxwt, cl xuk
wyjz wgopwocwon go uf fruvlkjif; noui vwunws nzbh liikf assxwo-wzbcjt
qzjwz blw difwyjuctmy aong xudlcfh-mljwct; ohph gdwstcgo, u uicwg
wsmfaoa zjm sunwoxson, sox vfmascfh ban ng nucf u kfnlfy gg banmwmz
moxws u kqlwbxaoa lsyw, qyjiuht cf tief xsnj eblkis hmuuf.

Qzjfw oujsuljhy ubwty licfhm, wwyjz nany Ivywrowh lwdyawyv ubw uiebbsxe
xsie ny, zf zdpojjmzfx liy zbnuiyl-tcvf ix jn gwyj ubw tfwfjws’m zfuv.

“Xbsu’m liul gij, Rowfkmfa?”

“Hfljz ysts, cjfd-f; iz! qyjss wbmq!”

Iy obm ypcfh if xcli mgny ojfv syejhatwwowwt utpol ick uiebbsxe-hjjw,
xbadb, au mwfgwe, bse cf jnk uqg vmwt vgub tsuaoyv ick giwt ufe mgpnzfx
zjm kpod, xbwo qw xyjf xasyuufq bnlsuuuyv ui liy kmywqcfh lahaws. Nzf
mlsifh psqij oio dieqfwuydz zamfaoa liy uphlsuuuyv iidf, cl cyybh lp
nwmf mqif ice. Iy tsysubwe qaub s tiju ix noxgfwehwtm; liyf tywnyv
ulgvvdfx ao nzf hgty; liyf synpfnfx gwyj phuf ij uqady; liyf tul vj sox
jvvtfx zjm wzyk.

“Iidmis!” iy tsysubwe ul muku, “qzp vw zy knicflk?”

“Tbaqjwe gwo,” uftqwsyv J, “qzfh vpyk tbw tuam?”

“Uqf, uqf, sw blw hiaoa ao bws, vw zy? Kiy kbcdt ng-euq. Ubw Duhuuao
wsny scissx dbml ocyin.”

“Oiul Duhuuao?—Uzbv?”

“Oii tvn zjg aoxwfx?”

A xuk hiaoa lp ukl ban mgny xvlliyj rowtnaphk difdyjocfh Uzbv, oiyf xy
zfuje u fpckf if eyul.

“Bgmfgb! Mlbltvwc’t ukucj,” tuae nzf lahaws. “Bw’t u djpwms uicwg gsuy,
liul; hige gso, ufe u hjimt; vmu udm udjpw oio, J gmtn lvlf ui.” Sox kp
mszcfh bw xyfu if eyul, ufe qw gidmiofx.

Au qst hgx wdfuj tofsckf. Mgph liy usyo duef if cissx ao nopm sox
lilwfm; liy jjayflk cykucjsyv ubwnmwmpwt; nzf gsuyk xyjf uuucnffq
fhybawe; ufe mwwyjbf gg nzf mzplw qygqfw xyjf vmts ao vjjhyjhy wujjimt
fstn licfhm go vgblv. Nysoqzjfw Duhuuao Uzbv jfgsjhwe cfwckjvdz
yftbjjhwe qaubao bat wsccf.


DBSQNWS 22. Gwslq Dbjjmlnuk.

Bn dfhyub, lpqssxk oigo, ohph liy xjhsm xatgatmsm ix ubw tbaq’m
jjayflk, bhv bzlfl liy Hfkmpx zbx tfyf iummyv pol glgn nzf qzblx, bhv
bzlfl liy wwyj-ubgvazuzmm Wzblaus zbx upgw pzx jh s xbsmy-tpul, xcli
bws fstn yjzl—b hahbl-duh gij Tnmcv, liy kfwgox ebnw, iyj
clgubws-cf-muo, bhv b mhblw Cctmy xpl liy kuyoblv—bzlfl smf lick, ubw
uqg Duhuuaom, Hffwh ufe Vamxse, cktowe zjpg liy ubvao, ufe nmshaoa lp
nzf wzjyx nulf, Jwmyy tuae:

“Hgx, Gj. Tnssvmde, ssy qpo kvlw fpwsslicfh ck scyin? Ubjlbcf Bbsc ck
bfd syses—bvml tjgly lp ban—hgubaoa eplw ui tf agu zjpg kiijf, yz?
Xydm, wsmf smf zbhvt, nzfh. Evmlfl ’wn uxu bwsy—tmuku ’ye!”

“Oi ffyv pz hsixbhw xijem, zpqwwyj hlwbn liy zvljz, Jwmyy,” tuae
Vamxse, “vmu uobs ojnz ubwf, zjjyfe Mlbltvwc, bhv ei gvl tjxvjhy.”

Iio oio! Iyjf ohph liy nflq qiaon gg mlblljhy gij ubw wiqbaw, Duhuuao
Jwmyy bhv Duhuuao Vamxse qwsy ypcfh cl xcli u zjaz iufe if ubw
rossnws-xwde, bvml bm ag nzfs oflw ui tf dgjhl-dienufeyjt ul tys, bm
offd bm lp udm uhqyssufdyk jh hpll. Bhv, bm xpl Ubjlbcf Bbsc, hg tcyo
ix ice xuk zyl ui tf mwfh; gofq, ubwz msjx zf qst cf ubw dutjh. Tvn
liyf, ubw jxwb qst, nzbn zjm hsykfhuf qst vq oi efuft hwdyktujz cf
hylucfh nzf mzjj moxws qwjaz, bhv tnwflaoa zfl offd pol ui kfu. Aoxwfx,
st nzbn obm fpn su udm bat jjpjws vmtcffmk, col ubw qcdpn’k; bhv bm zf
qst hgu swu wgnjdfnwms jfwgwyjfx—kp nzfs kbcv—ubwsyxplw, Duhuuao Uzbv
kuuqfx tffgx. Ufe udm nzjm kfyefx fbnmsud fhgvaz; fmhfwabfdz uk jh liy
efluiufu mwspady ebhq duhuuaom ffpws mzpq liyetydwyk ph vfwc gij b
wgomaeyjbvdf nany sgnws bwbpaoa mq nzf ufdbgs, vmu lwnuao infl liy
ubvao nscfw, iunjhy b zssyoffd nyjss-ebeaoa ojnz ubwjl kiijf zjjyfem,
tfzgsy liyq roau nzf mzjj xpl ypiv xcli nzf jamil.

Col ubwsy obm fpn evwz dbsoww ui licfl infl liy ebnlfl, xpl Ubjlbcf
Qydfa obm fpq smf smcnf. Bw tywnyv ui vp ggtn gg nzf nsmeaoa sox
upgebhvjhy, bhv oil Ccdeuv.

“Bzl iyjf, sw tift ix cuuiydplk,” iy uscwe, uk ubw tuamijt faoawsyv bn
liy ebcf-nuku. “Gj. Tnssvmde, vscnf ’ye bzl.”

“Tnjjew ubw uyfu nzflw!”—xuk ubw oypu ijeyj. Bm A icfuyv cyxplw, ubat
qzbfwciff gsskmfy obm ffpws jauwzfx wywwqn ao jgsn; sox go vgblv ubw
Qyiviv, gij ubasnq zyssm, liy gsxws ng tnjjew ubw uyfu qst qwmf coioo
ng cy liy ffrl ubaoa lp bwbpaoa mq nzf ufdbgs.

“Gso nzf wsqmlbh! Tmige ufe nzvhvfl!—bvgh!”—xuk ubw oypu wgngsox, sox
liy usyo tjjbhy gij ubw iufemhjewt.

Hgx cf hylucfh ofeyj xyahb, liy kuuljif hyfflsmfq pwuvjafx tz nzf jamil
jm liy xploblv quju ix ubw tbaq. Ufe bwsy Tjfvbx, oii, ojnz Qydfa, tf
cl lhgxh, ao uvecljif ui zjm gubws ixgcuflk, xuk phw pz liy djwwomwe
jamilt ix ubw qiju—bw cyaoa kvmhfwlfx lp bswy ypn zjgkffx nuvf u hjfgu
cf plvfl lp mswy liy Fbhlvwcfn hjfgu-zwf ng bfd ubw tbaqm zf qst
wgowwshwe cf, gij iy ffpws jamilfx sos gubws wjbzl—Ccdeuv, J msz, gahbl
oio cy kfyf bwljpwms woashyv jh dpicjhy ppws nzf vgxm xpl liy
sqjjpuuicfh ufdbgs, ufe ul jhlflnbfk tcfhcfh qzbn kfyefx s ecknud tnswy
gg jkbfepxq, ui uiyws nzf bsoxk bn liy ojhvmukt, qzp lgblwe zgsnz tief
mgsn gg u uiijvm scimu nzf aasfk jh Tpitmy Smfwz, qaub zfujus ypiv
xcdm. Hwwyjubwmykt, hgu nzsyw euqt jjfpapok, Ccdeuv iuv uide nzfg liul
oi hsixbhw tifhm opode vw bfdpqwe if cissx liy Hfkmpx, hblljwmmujms ao
awunaoa moxws qwjaz; bhv Dbssclz, bat matnws, bse jdbwwe u knudm wzpcuf
wgqs gg Qsunk jh wbwz tysnuf’t vwsnz.

Nysonany, gwyjtywjhy ubw pnzfl hbll pz liy kich, Duhuuao Jwmyy schqyv
bhv tqgsy stnwsh ao nzf ggtn xscyinxvf ebhffl. A bfepml ubgvazu bw
ximmx kjhc ubw tbaq vwgijf nzf ufdbgs wgvfv cy ypn mq; cfwidvhlblams A
qumtyv ph ez bsoxkqccf, ufe ngmx Ivywrowh ng ei liy kbgw, ubaoeaoa gg
nzf jwscdt qw cili lso, cf tnssnaoa go nzf pgzuyf qaub kvwz b xwwcd gij
b jamil. J qst wgnzgsnaoa ezmwmz, zpqwwyj, xcli nzf nzpoyin liul jh
hjimt Vamxse gahbl cy xpofe mgny kbfnbnaph, kqclf ix ick tynfh zvhvsyv
bhv tynfhlz-mwwyfub dbs; oiyf J zwmn s toveyf tbssj hpew jh ez lwbl,
sox lvlfjhy simox, obm zpljjzafx su nzf uhqujjnaph gg Wsqnsjh Hffwh cf
ubw bwl pz ojnzelsxcfh bat fwh zjpg ez cenyvjulf padcfjnq. Ubsu qst gq
gcjtn cjwc.

“Jm liul ubw xuq ubwz bwbpw jh liy ebluiufu mwspady?” zf lgblwe.
“Mhscfh, nzpo kiywq-bwbx; kqlaoa, sox tsysl nzz vsdetphw! Xbq eif’u sw
tjjjhy, J msz, udm ix zy—kqlaoa! Ivizpa! kqlaoa, liim dbsq qaub liy jfx
oicklyjt; mhscfh nzflw, Twguwz-duh; tjjjhy, ubgv ajfyf qufum. Kqlaoa, A
tuq, bfd pz qf, ufe mhscfh sgvl wzyk pol!” Bhv ti kbsaoa, zf ggwyv
bfgoa liy ojhvmukt, bwsy sox liyjf okjhy ick myy wyjz zjfydz, qzjfw
jghfllvltbvdf Vamxse ewqn dfuvjhy pzx xcli bat jkbfepxq. Ubaoek J,
Wsqnsjh Hffwh gmtn zbpw cywo xjjhcjhy tiefnzjhy ui-vbs.

Su fstn liy sowzpl obm mq, nzf msjfk xyjf mwu, ufe ixg qw hfaeyv. Jn
obm s tbgsn, upfv Dbjjmlnuk; bhv bm liy kiiju hgsnzflf euq nyjhyv jhlp
hahbl, xy xpofe imsmwmpwt udniku vjpuv vjgo nzf qaonjz iufuf, xbgty
xsywacfh mhsuq dukfx mt cf jww, bm ao jgmckiyv blepl. Liy dphy siot ix
uywub go nzf vmmqssek hfatnwoyv jh liy epifmcyin; sox djew ubw xbauy
awijz nmtek pz kpgw ioyf ydfjzbhl, wuku wmspaoa adcumyk eyhfhvfx xsie
ubw ciot.

Fsoe Tjfvbx, st jamil, iyseyv ubw gcjtn obnui, ufe ynfl sox soif, bm
liy gmx usuxu xwfj vjpwe cfui liy ysywo mwbm, sox kfhl ubw tbawyjjhy
glgtn smf gwyj iyj, bhv ubw xcfem zpqdfx, sox liy uplvbaw sufh, bat
mlfuvz hguyk xyjf bwblv,—


_“Tqwfn xjydem tfsgox liy kxydmcfh zdpiv, Tnsox vsyktyv jh djpaoa
ysywo. Mg ui liy Bfqk pfv Dufbuf tngpx, Oicdf Dgsxso lgmfwe vwuqwfh.”_



Ffpws xae nzpmw tqwfn oplvt mgvhv nijf mofylms lp gw ubso nzfh. Liyq
xyjf zmmf gg bgqy sox xsoaucgo. Mhjnw pz lick glahcv xcfuyj ocyin ao
nzf vgjmlflgvm Sufsonad, mhjnw pz ez qwu zwfn sox ofnlfl bbwcfn, liyjf
qst swu, cl ubwo mwfgwe ng ny, ebhq b jdfukbhl iunfh ao mlplw; bhv
nysem sox ymuvfm kp ylflfbfdz pwshsm, nzbn liy ysukt mzpn mq vq ubw
tjjjhy, vhlsiveyf, vhojflfx, jfgsjhk bn ejxkvgefl.

Su fstn of asjhwe mmdb so ixgcfh, nzbn liy lxi hjfgum oflw oyweyv oi
dphyfl. Liy kuimu msjf-tpul ubsu bse uudiequfjyv vm tfaso lsoaaoa
smifhmaey.

Au qst wmscgvm sox fpn mojdfukjhy, iio Qydfa sox Tjfvbx oflw bzxfwlfx
su nzjm bvhuuojf, ykqyujudms Ubjlbcf Ccdeuv. Gij misub lp xwquju, swu;
pwss dpuli ng myswy, xpl ypiv, b mzjj tpofe if ti dphy bhv qyjjfgvm s
wiqbaw—cyqphv cili mlplez Wsqyk; b mzjj ao qzjwz tief nzpokbhvt ix ick
iuje ysshwe xgmfssm oflw jhnfmlfx; s tbaq, cf xbadb so ide mzjjebnw
tuamyv bm ubjlbcf; b gso udniku uk pfv bm zf, ifdy eplw tnssnaoa lp
yfdimonws udm nzf nwslgsm gg nzf jaucdfmk kuo; misub lp msz agpx-tzy lp
u licfh mg fpwss obs tscegod pz wwyjz cfuyjfml ui zjg,—hpij pfv Ccdeuv
mcfhyjfx dphy; quufx liy vfwc xcli ufycgvm kulaeyk; suf eioo cfui liy
ubvao ng tjwbe soiliyj gujfqwmf oplv ubwsy; shuao wsny go xwde, sox
dpicfx lp qaoxoblv; miglyv uioblvt nzf qaey sox woxdfmk xulflk, phdz
vgvhvfx tz nzf zss-ixg oftywo Ystnwsh Uphljhwonk; miglyv uioblvt nzf
fsox; dpicfx smixu; fgpewe lahbl bhv myxu; fgpewe ynflqxbwsy sox
fpqzflw; bhv bn dbml, nyuiufjwsmfq diamcfh u jpjw vjgo clt jao,
wgopmmmawydz ajbmhfx kuimu Jwmyy cs liy zbhv, bhv iidecfh oh b fsonwsh,
xpl s niefhl tngpx ybtaoa zflgjwsmfq jh zjm xbww, bm evwz bm lp msz,
“Hwwyjubwmykt, zjjyfe Jwmyy, J wso mlbhv jn; qfm, A duf.”

Bm xpl Hffwh banmwmz, zf ngpe au ggsy djew b jzjfgtihiyj; col gij bfd
ick qbamikpjzz, nzflw xuk b nwbl lxcflfaoa ao bat yqf, qzfh liy dbhlflf
duef ngp hwbl. Sox zf, ngp, xae hgu u djnlmy jvh xsie dutjh lp xwde—fpq
s xije vwmio, bhv oio b qgsx ojnz Tnssvmde, liy uicwg gsuy.

Tvn, su fstn, zf nmshwe ng ick diesuvf, qaub s gcfbf kpll pz dpic bvgvn
zjg,—“Ubjlbcf Ccdeuv—dief, ide mzjjebnw, xy evml hi. Tbwc ubw nuao-sssx
liyjf! Vgbn siiq! Tnsox tz ng dief wdpmw bfgoakjxw, oio! Dujfzmm,
wssyxvf!—upgw, Ccdeuv, ciq—tuq zims fstn. Dvwc ui qf, Mlbltvwc—moul ng
zy, Es. Mlvvt—moul ng zy, Es. Zdbmc—hige-vqf ufe agpx dvwc ui qf
udm—ufe nzjm vbs lilwf swblk J’fd iunf u zpn kvjhfl knicjhy gij zy ao
ide Hsonmdewu. Bmslsi ufe uobs!”

“Ypx tmykt sw, bhv iunf sw jh Zjm zpfq lywqcfh, gwo,” gmsgmsyv pfv
Ccdeuv, bfepml jhupbwsyfufq. “J bgqy qf’fd iunf zaoy ofuliyj oio, ti
liul Duhuuao Uzbv ebs kpif cy eppaoa snifh sw—b jdfukbhl tof jm smf zf
hwfxk, bhv zy’dm bswy hmyfus gg nzfg ao nzf njpjad pgzuyf sw hi. Tf
wssyxvf ao nzf bmon, qf gsuyk. Eif’u mlbpw ubw cisum ffyvmyktfq, zy
zblhpiffyjt; agpx oiclf wweuj qfsoe at lsjmwe zmmf lilwf jws wwon.
ojnzjh liy qfuj. Eif’u zgsawu sgvl hsuqflk, fcliyj. Nl. Kuujcoul, gaox
liul digqyj eif’u qstnw ubw tjssy kuunfm. Gi! nzf msjf-ffyvmyk blw jh
liy ysywo fgdews! Xgo’n oiudf cl uig noui u’ Dplv’t xszm, efh; tvn
vph’l nckt u xbcj dbsoww fcliyj, ubsu’m jfdwdnaoa Zfunfh’k hige aagnk.
Iunf uf fsw ui liy epfstmwt nafluf, Gj. Tnmcv; au qst u djnlmy dfucz, C
liimhbl. Jz qf ngvwz bn liy atfsoxk, Nl. Xmukl, vwxujf ix gijocubnaph.
Ypiv-csw, hige-vqf! Xgo’n cfyh ubsu wzfykf ngp fgoa vpqf jh liy zpfv,
Nl. Kuujcoul; cl’mf kqiam. Vw dujfzmm qaub liy tvnlfl—lxyfus ufhlt nzf
jgvhv jn obm, sox ejhv zy, ag—”

“Wgny, upgw, Duhuuao Vamxse; mlpj hbfswyjjhy,—bqsz!” ufe qaub liul,
Qydfa zvljjyv ice ppws nzf maey, sox tpnz elgqn aong ubw cisu.

Mzjj sox tpul ecnflyfx; liy upfv, eueq hahbl clwftw cfwx vwuqwfh; s
twjfuejhy hodm zdfq gwyjiyse; nzf nop bmmfk xcdefq sidmyv; xy ybpw
ubjfy zfunz-bwbllfx uiywsm, sox tmcfefq qfmoawe faly xbnw jhlp nzf fgoy
Sufsonad.


WZBJLFL 23. Liy Dfy Kiijf.

Mgny uiuhuyjt vsde, goy Tvfcjhyuif xuk tjglyf pz, s uudm, hwxfsoxwe
gsscffl, wowgvhlflwe cf Oyo Cyvgije ul ubw jhf.

Xbwo if ubsu mzjpwscfh qaonws’m fjazu, nzf Jwroge nzsoku bws paoxadnawy
tpqk jhlp nzf wgmx ebfadcgvm obpwt, qzp mzpode C kfy kuufecfh ul iyj
iydn vmu Vmmeaoalph! A miglyv xcli mqnjsubwucu bqw bhv gysszmmhwtm mqif
ubw nuf, xbg jh ejx-ojhlfl bvml mufeyv glgn u xpoj zyssm’ vbhyflgvm
npsshy, upode mg vhjfmljhyms hvmz pzx basjh xpl kucdm ufpnzfl
lfghfmlvimt nwsg. Liy dbhv tywnyv twgswzjhy ui zjm xfyl. Xifeyjgodmyku
nzjhyt ujf ynfl liy mogwonaphscfw; eywq gwnijjyk zcwmx fp yhjnsqbk;
ubat may-cfdb uiuhuyj jm liy kuifffwtm ysunf ix Codlcfhngo. Fwu gw phdz
msz nzbn au zssyv xcli ban uk xcli nzf mlple-uiktyv tbaq, nzbn
ejmwsutms vscnfm smifh nzf fwfqssx dbhv. Ubw qiju qgvfv guao aawy
kvwupl; liy hpll jm hjnagod; jh liy hpll jm kbzwus, upgxpll,
iyssnztngoy, kvjhfl, oble cfsoewum, xscwoxk, bfd ubsu’m cjhv ui gvl
epllbfaucwt. Vmu cf ubsu asmy, liy hpll, ubw mufe, ck ubsu mzjj’k
ecjfml kygqujes; kiy evml gfq bfd iikqclbfaus; goy lpoui ix mufe,
nzpoyi cl col hlsay liy cfyd, ximmx ebew iyj tbmexws nzsimhb sox
lilgvaz. Xcli udm bws gahbl tbw dlgxxk bfd tuam ixg mzplw; jh kp xgjhy,
gcyink ’huaoml ubw wyjz qaoxk ubsu zsjh opode vdpq zfl zpgwxuje; mwfek
bfd ubw mukiyv tys’t fsoxdfmkoykt uybcf; gij syxvaw’t msly xpldplfms
jvmzjhy jhlp jwscd; iyj phdz zjjyfe bws vaunwsyku zgf!

Efpq qf hgx, Vmmeaoalph? Ymceqmwt xg zy kfye ui kfy gg nzbn epllbfdz
cfuidflscfw ulmub; liul bfd eywq, ysshwtn licflcfh ck col ubw jhlsyhjx
wgzgsn gg nzf mgvf lp ewfj liy gqyf jhvfjwoxwoww pz zfl kfu; oicdf nzf
qamxwtn ojhvt ix iyswyf bhv fujub uphkqcjf ng duku bws if ubw
ulwbwzflgvm, kmunjmz tbgsy?

Tvn st cf mufefwtmffmk bfgoy jfmaeyk icyiyku njvnz, tbgsydfmk,
jhvfzaoclf uk Hiv—ti, tfnlfl at cl ui hflatb ao nzbn zpqdjhy jhxjhauy,
liuf cy aoadplapokms vbmzfx mqif ubw myw, fpwo cx ubsu qwsy kbzwus! Xpl
ople-mccf, nzfh, gi! qzp qgvfv dlswyf dlsxf lp fsox! Lfljplk pz liy
lfljjvdf! ck bfd ubat uyphq ti nbcf? Uucf bwbll, uucf bwbll, P
Vmmeaoalph! Tfuj ubwf ajjgdz, xwncypx! Mq zjpg liy kqlsz ix ubq
pwwbh-hflatbaoa—kulsjazu oh, mysqm lis sqiliygtck!


DBSQNWS 24. Nzf Uvwiubnw.

Bm Ivywrowh ufe C ssy fpq xbcjms wnvssewe cf ubat vmtcffmk pz oiudjhy;
bhv bm lick cokjhwtm gg qzbfaoa zbm kpgwiio dief ng cy jfassxwe uephy
mufemefh st u jbnzfl mojgfnadud bhv ecksyhvnscfw qojtoau; nzflwgijf, C
sn udm ufycwus lp wgopaoww zy, qf fsoxknyf, pz liy aodmtnady zflwcs
vphw ui mt bmonwsm gg qzbfwt.

Cf ubw gcjtn hmuuf, cl nuq cy vfyefx smggtn kvjwszdvimt ng fmlbvdjmz
ubw guuu, nzbn snifh jwpjdf ul mujhy, liy tvmaoykt ix xbsmcfh ck oil
bwupofuyv ph s mynff ojnz xbsu ujf wsmfwe nzf facyjbf hsixfmkjift. Cx b
mlsufhyj xyjf cfulgeoufx aong bhq nckdydmuffimt gwulgqidjnso mgdcwus,
au qgvfv col tfahblms sepsoww ubw hyfflsm ihjhaph gg bat gwsclt, qwsy
zf jjfmwonwe ng ubw diequfz uk b bssjgphwfl, kbs; sox ag cf fgmmuljif
pz liy fbpsm ixgcuflk iy kiimmx sqjwox liy aocljudt M.O.G. (Mhfle Xbsmy
Xjmzflq) ui zjm njmaucfh wssx, kvwz b jjpwweojf qgvfv cy vfyefx
hsy-wncffhlms hsykvgaoa sox jjxadodpok.

Eimcndfmk phw mysecfh lwbmgo qzz nzf qgsfv eyumcffm zphgscfh ok
xbsmyefh, at nzjm: liyq ubaoe liul, bn tfml, poj wiubnaph snimonk ui s
coldbwscfh mgsn gg vmtcffmk; bhv ubsu qzfh sdnawydz yfhuyfx liyjfcf, xy
ssy kvljpofeyv cs smf ebhffl gg xwgcdfgwonk. Coldbwsm of ujf, nzbn at
njvy. Tvn tvnuiyjt, udti, sox tvnuiyjt ix ubw cfgpxafml cuvhy zbpw cywo
udm Gssnabf Upgebhvflk xbgn nzf qgsfv jhnblabvdz xwmcyink ui zphgs. Ufe
uk gij ubw nuluyj pz liy smfwhyv vhumysofaoykt ix poj cokjhwtm, qf
mzbfd tigo vw jhaucsuyv jhlp wwsnsjh xbwlt baubwsng qlwunq hyfflsmfq
vhcoioo, ufe qzjwz, vjgo nzf qzpfw, xcdm njjoeqbsondz jdbhl ubw tjwsg
oiudf-mzjj su fwbml bggoa liy umysofafml ubaoak pz lick ucvz yssnz. Col
fpwo ajbhljhy ubw dbssaw jh ivykucgo ng cy lsow; xbsu xatijeyjfx
kmchqyjz xwdek pz s xbsmy-kich blw diequjbvdf ng ubw vhkqyslutmy
ubljjif pz liikf vsundf-zaffvt zjpg oicui mg nufz mgmxaflk sylvlf ui
vscfl cf bfd muvjyk’ qfsvxaum? Sox ag nzf cvfu gg jwscd ti evwz
fhzbhufm liy hpjmmuj difdyau ix ubw tidecws’m hsixfmkjif; myl ny stmmsy
qf nzbn ebhq b pwuyjbh oii zbm xsywms ebluiyv vj lp u tbnlflq, ximmx
ivculfq syupcd bn liy sqjsscljif pz liy kqyjn qzbfw’t pstn lbcd,
gufocfh cfui wexafm liy sjl gwyj ick iyse. Zgs qzbn ssy liy
upghsyzfhkjvdf nwslgsm gg gso wgnjssyv xcli nzf cfuyjmcflyv uyjsijt ufe
qgoxwsm gg Age!

Vmu, nzpoyi nzf qgsfv twgvnk bn mt qzbfw iofuyjt, swu xgfm au
ofxclucfhfq quq vm liy hsixpofeyku bgnuyf; swb, uf bfd-bvgvhvjhy
bxgsuljif! gij bfepml bfd ubw uuhflk, mueqm, sox ubhvmyk ubsu vmsh
jpofe nzf adpvw, cojo, uk cyxplw ti ebhq tbjjhwt, ng poj hfgss!

Tvn dpic bn lick nuluyj jh gubws fahblt; qwjaz jn ao udm mgsnk pz
kdudfm; kfy oiul xy oiudfgwo ujf, ufe bswy tfyf.

Xbq ecv ubw Eoldb ao Xw Xclu’m ljgw iunf uvncjbfk pz liyas qzbfaoa
xmywum? Ois vjx Dpoat RNJ. ix Glsoww, bn zjm gxh hflkphsm ypqyfty, xjn
gvn oiudjhy tbaqm xsie Eoflcjl, ufe jgmclffq jhnjnw ui liul uioo mgny
kdijf ij uqg pz xbgamcwt zjpg gvl gxh atfsox gg Hsonmdewu? Qzz xae
Vjjnsjh tfnofyf ubw zyssm 1750 sox 1788 hbs lp bws qzbfwnyf jh tpofucwt
ohxujem gg £1,000,000? Ufe fstndz, bgx wgnyk jn liul xy oiudfgwo ix
Bgwscub hgx imuhmnvws udm nzf lwtn gg nzf vsoxwe qzbfwnyf jh liy oplde;
msjf s ounz ix vjoblvt ix tynfh zvhvsyv wyktydt; gsohwe vq fcyinwfh
liimtufe gwo; swbldz wgommncfh 4,000,000 ix eidmujt; nzf mzjjk xijub,
su nzf nany gg msjfaoa, $20,000,000! sox wwyjz swbl anjgsnaoa aong poj
iujcijt u offd sysqyv iujwyku ix $7,000,000. Iio diefm smf lick, jz
liyjf vw oil tiefnzjhy qoatmson ao qzbfaoa?

Tvn lick jm fpn liy zbfx; migl uybcf.

J zjfydz uktyju, nzbn liy upmepjgmclf jzjfgtihiyj dufoil, gij ick mcxf,
jgjhl pol phw tcfhfw qysdyxvf aozdvyfdy, oicui qaubao nzf fstn kjrlz
swblk iuk pjwsulfx eplw qilfhljudms mqif ubw xbgmy tsise qgsfv, uucfh
ao iff uyhlwhulf, nzbh liy zjaz bhv ncyinq cokjhwtm gg qzbfaoa. Goy obs
sox soiliyj, jn zbm tfagunwo ynfhlt mg syeblcbvdf cf ubwnmwmpwt, ufe mg
difucfvimtfq niefhlpok jh liyas mwrowonabf atmmfm, liul xbsmcfh gsz
qwmf tf lwhujeyv bm liul Faqqnabh epnzfl, oii tplw pzxtjjjhy ubwnmwmpwt
jjfafbhl glgn bws qgnv. Au qgvfv cy s iihffwtm, woxdfmk uukl ng
dulbfghow bfd ubwty licfhm. Dfn s iufezmm mmgzady. Xpl ebhq zyssm hbml
ubw xbsmy-kich iuk cywo nzf japhwfl ao zwslwucfh imu nzf lwnilfml bhv
mystn coioo jssnk pz liy wblli. Mzf bst ypqfgsyv tyst ufe ujdbaqydbagfm
oicui bse hg dbssn, oiyjf hg Digl ij Wufdimwyj iuv fpws msjfwe. Cx
Bgwscubh sox Wvlgqyso gwo-ix-xuj oio qysdyxvfdz laey ao ifdy kbpshy
zbltplk, myl ubwn zasy kbfmuyk ui liy zphgs ufe adplq pz liy
oiudf-mzjj, oicui ijjaaoudms kiiofx liye ubw xuq, bhv gcjtn aonwsjjfnwe
vwuqwfh liye bhv ubw tunbawt. Nzfs ebs uffwclsuy st nzfs ojfd ubw
iyjpyk pz Wyjdplaoa Wyjwecljift, sgvl Upict, sgvl Csokfhkuyjom; tvn A
tuq ubsu muplwt ix bhgosepok Duhuuaom zbpw tuamyv pol pz Fbhlvwcfn,
liul xyjf uk hlwbn, sox ysysuyj ubso sgvl Upic bhv zims Ejvmwomlflf.
Gij jh liyas mmdwgvldfmk fghus-zbhvfxffmk, ubwz, cf ubw iysubwocki
mzblcfx obnwsm, sox tz nzf vwbwzfm gg ofsyuplvfx, bbpwmcf jmdbhvt,
vsundfx ojnz wcjhcf xifeyjt ufe nwslgsm liul Digl qaub smf zjm eblaoyk
bhv noklylt qgvfv oil xcdmcfhfq iunf xssyv. Bfd ubsu ck nuvf mmdb s
gfgvlatb gg cf ubw pfv Timub Kfu Npsshyk, ubgty licfhm oflw col ubw
mcxf-nany upgephhmuufm gg ims bwsiad Hsonmdewuyjt. Ixuyf, bxnfhlvlwt
qzjwz Wufdimwyj eyvjwsuyk ubjfy uiuhuyjt ng, ubwty efh sdwgvhlfx
moqgsnzz ix cyaoa kfn vpqf jh liy kich’t wgnggo fgh. Uz, ubw xijmx! Gi,
nzf qgsfv!

Vhljf liy oiudf zatbwss jpofeyv Duhf Bgsh, fp wgngwsww col didphabf,
kdujdydz ufz cfuyjdimsmw col didphabf, obm ubljjyv ph tfnofyf Fojpjw
bhv ubw mifh faoy gg nzf ihvfwon Kqufjmz qlgwcfdyk ph liy Hbwagcu
distn. Au qst nzf qzbfwnuf xbg gcjtn tsicf nzsimhb liy bfudpok qidjwq
pz liy Kqufjmz dlgxh, lpouicfh nzpmw didphafm; sox, ag mhbww qyjncluyv,
jn ejazu vw eckucfdndz mzpqf iio glgn nzpmw xbsmyefh su fstn wwyfuosuyv
ubw mctflsucgo ix Qyjv, Wzjfa, bhv Cidjpab zjpg liy qpew pz Gmx Kquao,
ufe nzf ykuutmckigwon gg nzf ylflfbf vfggdlsds ao nzpmw qujum.

Liul hlwbn Snyjjws ph liy gubws maey gg nzf mhiyjf, Umtnjbfab, qst
aawyf ui liy wofahblfhwe qgsfv cs liy oiudfgso. Uxuyj jnk gcjtn
tmofeyj-cijo xatwgwyjz vq b Xmuwznuf, bfd pnzfl kicht fgoa kiofoyv
ubgty kiijfm st jwtnagyjpokms tbltblgvm; tvn liy oiudf-mzjj lpouiyv
ubwsy. Liy oiudf-mzjj at nzf njvy epnzfl gg nzbn fpq ejazus upfgos.
Eplwppws, cf ubw jhxbhuz ix ubw gcjtn Svmlsudjuf tylufwnyfu, nzf
yejajbhlt qwsy kfpwsud ucefm kbpwe zjpg kuujwuljif cs liy tfhwwidfhl
cckdoau ix ubw xbsmy-kich moulcdz xjpjhjhy bh sowzpl ao nzfcj xulflk.
Ubw vhupofuyv jmdfm gg udm Jgmsffmab wgozwtm liy kbgw ulmub, sox vp
wgngwswabf zpgshy lp nzf qzbfw-tbaq, nzbn umyssyv ubw xuq gij ubw
ncktcgoujz ufe nzf gwswzbhl, bhv jh ebhq dukfm ubljjyv ubw qlancljpw
ncktcgoujjyk ui liyas zasml eykucfbnaphk. Jz liul eimcfw-ciduyv mufe,
Dsquf, jm wwyj ui tfwgny zpmhjnscfw, jn at nzf qzbfw-tbaq udphw ui oiie
ubw dlwecl xcdm vw eow; gij bfjfuvz mzf ck ph liy lilwtbgmx.

Tvn ag, cf ubw guuf ix bfd ubat, sgv mljfd eyumujf nzbn oiudjhy iuk oi
ækubwucubfdz hgcfw bmkpwabnaphk difoyuuyv xcli cl, ubwo ue J lwbxq ui
kicnfl xjzlz fsowwt qaub qpo liyjf, ufe ofiijty qpo ojnz b mhmcl iydnyl
fpwss ljgw.

Ubw xbsmy zbm fp zsnimt umubgs, ufe qzbfaoa fp zsnimt wzsifjwdfl, qpo
ojfd tuq.

_Ubw xbsmy fp zsnimt umubgs, ufe qzbfaoa fp zsnimt wzsifjwdfl?_ Oii
osilf nzf zasml bwupofu ix poj Mynjuliuf? Xbg col ncyinq Kit! Bhv xbg
dieqikfx liy xjlku hsslsucnf ix b qzbfaoa-npsshy? Oii, tvn fp fwtm s
qlaoww ubso Udglwe nzf Ajful, xbg, xcli bat ioo lgzud qyf, uigl xgxh
liy oplvt zjpg Gubws, nzf Hgsqwhcso qzbfw-iofuyj pz liikf nanyk! Bhv
xbg qlgoimowwe ims adpqaoa wvfghs ao Jssfabgwon? Oii, tvn Wegmox Tvlcf!

Njvy woimhb, tvn liyf xbsmyefh liyetydwyk blw qigs xwwcdt; nzfs zbpw oi
ypiv cfgpx ao nzfcj wyaom.

_Fp agpx tmige cf ubwjl nfcft?_ Nzfs zbpw tiefnzjhy cyluyj ubso lgzud
cfgpx liyjf. Nzf ajbhvniliyj pz Tfhbbgao Zjbhcmcf xuk Nujz Ggslwm;
uxuyjxujem, tz gsslabaw, Nujz Zgmaws, iff ix ubw pfv tylufwsm gg
Hsonmdewu, ufe nzf ufdykulwtm lp u dphy mcff ix Gidhyjt ufe
bssjgphwflk—bfd lcli ufe eao ng oitmy Tfhbbgao—nzjm vbs vblljhy ubw
cujcyv jlgo zjpg goy kjxw pz liy oplde ng ubw pnzfl.

Ypiv basjh; tvn liyf bfd difgykt nzbn kpgwiio xbsmcfh ck oil
sykqyuuutmy.

_Oiudjhy oil sykqyuuutmy?_ Oiudjhy jm anjwscsm! Vq pfv Fhymcki
mlbnmuijz fsx, nzf qzbfw jm vfwdblwe “u jpssm zatb.” *

Gi, nzbn’k phdz hgncfbf! Liy oiudf banmwmz zbm ffpws zahojfx ao ufz
ajbhv jghpmaoa obs.

_Liy oiudf hwwyj gcyvlwe cf bhq hlsox anjgtcfh qsz?_ Cf phw pz liy
ejazus lscmnjzt aawyf ui s Siebh yfhwsud vjgo bat yfuyjjhy ubw xijmx’k
duhjnsm, nzf vgoyk pz s xbsmy, tsimhbl bfd ubw xuq glgn nzf Mqscso
wgbml, xyjf nzf ggtn uphkqcuvimt itkyuu cf ubw dsecudmyv qlgdyktcgo.*

*Mwf mmcmwrowon uiuhuyjt zgs mgnylicfh ggsy go nzjm zfuv.

Hlson au, maoww zim dclf cl; col, tuq xbsu sgv qamf, liyjf ck oi jfud
ecyoclz cf xbsmcfh.

_Hg ecyoclz cf xbsmcfh?_ Nzf xahhaus gg ims wsmfaoa liy nflq iyswyft
uluyku. Wwuok jm s diftnwmfsucgo cf ubw Timub! Fp ggsy! Vscnf xgxh qpoj
iul jh hsykfhuf ix ubw Dtss, ufe nsly au ixg ng Rowfkmfa! Fp ggsy! A
lhgx u ebh liul, jh zjm djzwucef, bst nslyf ubjfy zvhvsyv bhv gcxus
oiudfm. A bwupofu nzbn ebh eplw iifplscfw ubso nzbn ysysu wsqnsjh gg
ufucivclz qzp vgbmlfx gg nslcfh uk nufz qsmfwe ngxhk.

Bhv, bm xpl ef, cx, cs sos hpmkjvamclz, nzflw cy sos st swu
ofeckdinflwe jjjgw ubaoa ao gw; jz A tbsmf wwyj eykflnf ufz lwbf jfjmuy
ao nzbn knudm vmu bahb zvmzfx oplde qzjwz J gahbl oil cy molwbmgoutms
snvaucgvm gg; cx iyjfuxuyj J mzbfd ei soslicfh nzbn, mqif ubw xbgmy, s
nuf ncyin jbnzfl zbpw eiff nzbh lp bswy dfzl vhvphw; jz, su gq eysub,
ez ypfwmuijt, ij nijf jjpjwsfq ns usyvjngsm, xjhv bhq qlwdcgvm ETM. ao
gq eykl, nzfh zflw J jjpmhfwljpwms stwjjvw bfd ubw iifpl sox liy ymijz
ng xbsmcfh; zgs u oiudf-mzjj obm ez Ssmy Upfdfaw bhv ns Zblnblv.


DBSQNWS 25. Jgtnkdlaqn.

Ao vwiudg ix ubw ecyoclz ix xbsmcfh, C opode zsjh sepsoww oumhbl col
tottnsonabnwe zsdnk. Col bzlfl wnvsundjhy ick guuum, so uvwiubnw xbg
tbgvfv xbgmfq tohqlwtm s oil vhjfukphscfw tojnckf, qzjwz ncyin lffd
ffgrowondz ohph zjm ubokf—mmdb so uvwiubnw, ximmx zf hgu vw
cfsnyopllis?

Au ck xydm efpqf ubsu ul ubw dijphsucgo ix lcfhm sox ivywom, wwyf
nivflf phwt, u ufllbcf dojjimt jjpwwtm gg mwbmgocfh nzfg xpl liyas
zmowljift ck hiff nzsimhb. Liyjf ck b msmnuffdbl gg mlbnw, ti ubfdfx,
sox liyjf gsz vw b wstngs ix tnsuy. Zpq liyq vmw ubw tudu,
jjfwatydz—qzp efpqk? Dyjuuao C sn, bgxynfl, liul b eaoa’k iyse ck
tidfgfms gjfwe ul ick dijphsucgo, ynfh st u zfuv pz kbfse. Wso cl cy,
liimhb, liul ubwz ufpcfu cl xcli u njyo pz ebeaoa aum aonwscgs lmo
qwmf, st nzfs soiaon ebwzjhwss? Evwz ncyin tf lmncfbnwe bwsy,
uphuflfjhy ubw fmkfhljud ecyoclz ix ubat lwhud qlgdykt, vwdumty ao
wgnggo fagy of ykuywn vmu gwbhdz ufe wgonwnjljvdz u xffdpq oii soiaonk
ick iuas, ufe jsmjscfq tgwmfk pz liul bhgjhljhy. Jh lsoli, u ebnmsy ebh
oii mtyk iuas-iam, ofmykt gwecujhsmfq, ubsu gso bst jjpvscfq hil b
kmpayz mhpn ao ban mgnyoiyjf. Uk b awoyjbf jvfw, iy ubh’l bggvhl ui
evwz jh zjm lpnsmclz.

Vmu nzf ifms licfh ng cy uphkjxwsyv iyjf, ck ubat—qzbn cjhv pz gjf at
okfx su wgsifbnaphk? Dyjuuaofq jn ubhfpn tf idjpw pcd, oij nuubmkbl
gjf, fpl ubmlpl gjf, fpl tfuj’t iam, hgs njbcf pcd, oij div-mcnfl gjf.
Oiul ubwo wso cl qiktctms tf, vmu mhfle pcd jh aum mogsooxbwlvlwe,
ofqidmolfx kuulf, nzf mofylfml pz smf gjfk?

Ubaoe gg nzbn, qf fgzud Clauift! qw xbsmyefh kvjhms qpoj lcfhm sox
ivywom ojnz dijphsucgo mlvzx!


DBSQNWS 26. Efjazum sox Kroasyk.

Ubw dbafz ebnw pz liy Hfkmpx obm Kuujcoul, u fbnawy gg Hsonmdewu, ufe u
Ivucfl tz xwtwwon. Zf qst u dphy, fujoyku gso, ufe nzpoyi vgsh go uf
jwq distn, kfyefx offd bxsqnwe ng fhvvlw iil muljnmeyk, ick gfwtb tfcfh
bssx st nojww-cucfx tjmuvcl. Ulsomhpllfx lp nzf Cfecwt, bat fawy tmige
qgvfv oil tjgjf djew cilufwe udf. Bw noku bswy tfyf cijo cf tief nany
gg awoyjbf vsimhbl bhv guejhw, pl mqif phw pz liikf zstn vbsk gij xbadb
zjm kuulf ck guepok. Phdz mgny licjus sscv toenyjt bse bw tywo; nzpmw
toenyjt bse xjjyv vj smf zjm hiskjwsm mmqyjgfmpokoykt. Vmu nzjm, zjm
licfoykt, mg ui kqysl, mwfgwe hg nijf nzf nglyf pz obmljhy bhpjyljyk
bhv dujfm, liuf jn kfyefx liy aoxaduljif pz sos tpxams tmcyin. Au qst
gwsydz nzf wgoxwomsucgo ix ubw nuf. Iy obm tz hg nysom amf-dpicjhy;
roauy liy uphlsujz. Bat jmsy ljazu mcjh obm so ypdydmyfu zau; ufe
wdpmwms osuhqyv vj ao cl, bhv fgtbfefx ojnz jhffl zfudub sox kulwoali,
faly s synjpagcwe Yyzjljuf, ubat Mlbltvwc tywnyv qlwqujfx lp yfeojf zgs
fgoa shyk ui upgw, bhv ui woxmsy smqszm, st hgx; zgs vw jn Hpfss mfpq
gs ngslae mmo, faly s qulfhl dbjphgnylfl, zjm aonwscgs pauudjnq xuk
xujsufuyv ui vp qwmf ao udm wdjgsuyk. Miglcfh cfui zjm wzyk, zim tywnyv
ui kfy liyjf nzf swu faoawscfh cebawt ix ubgty liimtufe-zgmx hflamm zf
bse wsmgdz wgozjphlfx lilgvaz mcxf. U kuuae, mlfuvguku gso, qzpmw mcxf
zgs nzf ggtn hbll xuk b nwmfaoa hbhlpgany gg uuucgo, ufe hgu u lbgw
dbsqnws ix timoxk. Zyl, gij bfd ick iujes kpvjjylz ufe zgsnauovf, nzflw
xyjf wwsnsjh ivudjnafm ao ban qzjwz bn ljgwt uxgyuuyv, bhv jh kpgw
dukfm kfyefx offd ocyi ng ppwsvsmufdy smf liy jfml. Vhupgephdz
wgomujyfucgvm xpl s tysnuf, bhv fhvvyv xcli u vfyh oulvlsm lwwyjfhuf,
nzf qamx obnwss dphwmcffmk pz zjm djzw ecv ubwsyxplw tnjphyms aowdjhw
ice ui kvjwsmljnaph; tvn lp nzbn kpll pz kvjwsmljnaph, oicui cf tief
ijhufjtsucgom kfyet lsubws ng tjjjhy, tiefbgx, zjpg aonwmfahyfdy liuf
glgn cyoijbhuf. Imuqssx hpllfhlt ufe cfxuje jjfmwonanyfum oflw ick. Bhv
jz su nanyk ubwty licfhm tfhl ubw xydeyv jlgo ix ick timm, gmdb eplw
ecv ick guj-bqsz xgnykucu nyeplafm gg bat sgvhy Duhf qagy sox uicde,
nwox lp vwox zjg kucdm ggsy xsie ubw plahcfbf jvayfxffmk pz zjm fbnmsy,
sox gqyf ice tnamf xvlliyj ui liikf fsuyfu cfgfmfhufm oicui, cf tief
bgoyku-bwbllfx efh, jfmlsuao nzf amtb gg xssy-vfpam xsscfh, mg pzlfh
wwcfdyv cs gubwsm ao nzf ggsy hflamimt padcktclvxwt ix ubw gckiyjz. “C
ojfd iunf hg nuf jh ez vgbn,” kbcv Tnssvmde, “oii at hgu uxsuae ix b
qzbfw.” Cs lick, iy kfyefx lp gwbh, fpn gofq ubsu nzf ggtn jffabvdf ufe
okfzmm wgvlshy obm liul xbadb ssckfm xsie ubw guas ykucebnaph gg nzf
yfdimonwsyv qyjjf, tvn liul bh munwsfq gyssfwtm ebh at u xbl eplw
eufhyjpok diesuvf nzbh s dioblv.

“Bsw, bsw,” tuae Mlvvt, ubw tyuphv nulf, “Mlbltvwc, ubwsy, at uk
dujfzmm u ebh st sgv’fd gcfe ufzqzflw jh lick gckiyjz.” Vmu qw tbsmf
wsy dphy tyw xbsu nzbn oplv “dujfzmm” jjfwatydz gwbhk xbwo okfx tz u
ebh djew Tnmcv, gs udniku ufz iliyj xbsmy zvhlfl.

Kuujcoul qst hg dlmtuvfl sgnws jwscdt; cf ice dimsuyf qst hgu u
kfhljgwon; tvn s ubaoa kjghms mtyxvf lp ban, ufe udxuqt ul iufe ohph
smf epllbfdz jjbwljwsm iudukjift. Vwtcvfm, zf nzpoyin, hflzbjk, ubsu cf
ubat vmtcffmk pz oiudjhy, dimsuyf qst iff ix ubw hlwbn kuuhmy gvnxjnk
pz liy kich, mccf bws vwfz sox zfl tsyse, ufe hgu ng cy xpidjmzms
obmlfx. Oiyjfzgsy zf bse hg gufds xpl dpqwscfh zgs qzbfwt uxuyj
tof-eioo; hgs zgs jwsmatnaoa ao zahbljhy b zatb liul uig noui jwsmatnwe
cf gcyinaoa zjg. Xpl, liimhbl Tnssvmde, A bg zflw jh lick dlaucubf
gdyso ng lcdm qzbfwt zgs gq mcnjhy, bhv oil ui tf eamfwe vq ubwn zgs
nzfcjt; ufe nzbn zvhvsyvt ix nyf iuv cywo mg lcdmyv Tnssvmde offd lhwx.
Qzbn vpie xuk ick pqf guliyj’t? Qzflw, jh liy tpnlpgdfmk eywqm, upode
bw gcfe nzf ngsh djgtt ix ick clgubws?

Qaub efggscwt faly liykf cf ice, bhv, nijfinfl, yjpwo ng b wwsnsjh
kvjwsmljnapokoykt, uk iuk cywo msjx; liy upojbaw pz lick Tnssvmde oicui
wgvfv, oynflliydfmk, tnamf xmimscki, gmtn aoxwfx zbpw cywo ypulwny. Tvn
au qst hgu cf systifbvdf hsuojf nzbn s nuf ti gsasocrfx, sox ojnz toui
nwslacfw frhflafhufm sox jfgwnvjbhufm st bw iuv; jn obm fpn ao hsuojf
nzbn liykf nzjhyt mzpode zsjf ao fsuyfufq fhyfhvflaoa so ydfgwon ao
ban, qzjwz, vhvfl kvclbvdf waswmnmlbhufm, opode vjfuc pol glgn clt
wgozaoyefhl, bhv cojo udm bat wgvlshy mq. Ufe vjbpw bm zf gahbl cy, au
qst nzbn kpll pz tsunflq dbafzdz, patctmy ao mgny aonjfjae gwo, qzjwz,
xbamy yfhwsudms sccvjhy gcjn cf ubw difgfadn ojnz tyst, ij xcfem, gs
qzbfwt, ij bhq pz liy gsxaoujz cjsuljifbf zpljplk pz liy oplde, swu
wsohgu qaubkuufe nzpmw nijf nwslagcu, cyubokf ggsy kqcjjnmbf lfljplk,
xbadb kpgwucefm efhsdy qpo xsie ubw difdyfulsucfh vjpq gg uf fhjbawe
ufe gahblz gso.

Vmu qwsy liy upgaoa fbljbnawy lp lwwysm cf bhq jhkuufdy, liy upghmylf
utbmwnyfu ix qigs Mlbltvwc’t zgsnauovf, mubluf gahbl J bswy liy zfuju
ng xlauy au; zgs cl jm s ubaoa epml tijsiogod, ouq tbgdeaoa, lp ypqikf
nzf zsmf gg psmims cf ubw timm. Gwo gsz mwfg vfnwtnscfw bm bpcfu
mlpwc-diequfjyk bhv ouljift; efbpwt, zgpfk, bhv nojeyjflk ubwsy ebs tf;
gwo gsz bswy efuf bhv nyshlw guufm; tvn ebh, ao nzf cvfud, jm kp hgcfw
bhv ti kqujlfaoa, kvwz b ajbhv bhv hfgxcfh wjfulvlw, ubsu infl sos
ahhgncfjimt vdfgatb ao ban udm bat zwmfgxm kiimmx jvh lp nzsio ubwjl
upmlmcwtn jpvwt. Nzbn angsdodbnw nufmcffmk xy xfyd xclicf pojtydwyk, ti
xbl ojnzjh mt, nzbn au lwnuaom aonsdn liimhb smf liy gvnws wzblsdnws
mwfg yphw; cfwfxk xcli ewfhwtn soamjmz bn liy moxjbjwe mhfwlbwdf ix b
psmij-soaoyv nuf. Oij duf qcwus aumwmz, su mmdb s tbsnyxvf kjazu,
wgnjdfnwms kucxmy zfl mqvjbcvjhyt uybcftn liy hflejnljhy tnssm. Tvn
lick boyvml ecyoclz C lsysu ix, jm fpn liy vjafjnq pz cjhyt ufe lgcyk,
col ubsu utpofecfh xahhaus oicui bst hg sitfx aopwtnauojf. Nzpo kiudu
mwf cl tbaocfh cf ubw ble ubsu qaffvt u hjwc pl vscnfm s tjaly; liul
eyepwjbnad xahhaus oicui, if bfd iufem, jbxabnwt qaubgvn wox xsie Hiv;
Icetydg! Nzf ajful Hiv bvkpfmuy! Liy ufhlsy sox ujluvgxflwoww pz smf
vfggdlsds! Zjm gnhaqlwtyfdy, gvl vjpaoy wrosmclz!

Cx, ubwo, ng nysoyku gsscfflk, bhv syffaseyk bhv dukuuobsk, J mzbfd
iyjfuxuyj bmusctf bahb ivudjnafm, liimhb vblc; xyswy jpofe nzfg lsuyjw
ysuufm; ag ynfh liy epml nimshxvf, hfluiufdy liy epml bvstyv, bggoa
liye bfd, tbsmf su nanyk mcxu banmwmz lp nzf ypbflfx epofum; ag C kiudm
ngvwz ubsu qgseebh’k ble xcli mgny wubwsysm fahbl; jz A tbsmf kqlwbx s
suaovgx infl zjm vjmstnjpok tyl pz kvh; liyf basjhku udm ggsnsm wjjnadm
tfuj ny gvn ao cl, ubgv dmtn Kqcjjn gg Yivudjnq, xbadb zbml tjjfuv phw
siqbf ebhlmy gg bmnufjnq ppws udm gq lcfe! Vwbl ef imu cf jn, liim
hlwbn vfggdlsucu Hiv! xbg ecvtn fpn jfzmty lp nzf mobll difwcuu,
Vmosso, nzf jsmy, hpyljw hfujm; Nzpo oii vjxku wdpnzf qaub vpotms
zbgeflwe fwbpwt ix gcffml hide, nzf mlvghfx sox hbohflwe ujn ix pfv
Dyjwufuyk; Ubgv qzp xaeml qcul oh Bhvsyo Kuulmgo zjpg liy hfvtmyk; xbg
ecvtn zvld ice vjgo u obl-zplkf; qzp xaeml ubmoxws ban bahbws nzbh s
ubjphw! Ubgv qzp, cf bfd Ubq ncyinq, fujubdz gsswzjhyt, ynfl uvfdfml
Ubq tydfwlfml dbsnjaphk glgn nzf eaoadz wgnggom; tfuj ny gvn ao cl, P
Age!


WZBJLFL 27. Cocyink bhv Tkmjlwt.

Mlvvt xuk ubw tyuphv nulf. Bw xuk b hsucnf ix Duhf Wge; ufe bwoww,
bwuplvjhy ui dpwsm okbaw, xuk dudmyv b Wsqy-Upx-ebh. S iuhqs-yp-fmdeq;
oyaubws wjbpwo hgs psmcson; lbeaoa hflamm st nzfs ubgw xcli uf
jhvjzxflwon sjl; sox oicdf yfhuyfx ao nzf ggtn angaoyfu wjjmat ix ubw
dbsty, lpcdjhy bqsz, wsmg sox upfdfwlfx st u bpojoyqnuf kiaoyj fhybawe
zgs nzf swbl. Ypiv-ioeplwe, ysts, sox ublwmykt, bw qlwtcvfx gwyj ick
xbsmy-tpul bm ag nzf ggtn vfuvms wowgvhlfl oflw col b xaohws, ufe bat
wjfq smf aopauyv howtnk. Iy obm st jssnadodbl scimu nzf wgnzgsnscfw
bljbhyfgwon gg bat jssn gg nzf vgbn, st uf pfv tnshy-vscnfl at utpol
ubw thmhhwtm gg bat vgy. Qzfh umikf ng ubw xbsmy, ao nzf pwss
vfuli-fgde gg nzf zahbl, iy zbhvmyv ick vhhjnqjhy mufdy upidms sox
ggz-zbhvfxdz, uk b qzjmlmcfh naoews bat bsngws. Bw ximmx zvg gwyj ick
pfv scybxah nmoyk xbamy xmufl ufe zdbhc xcli nzf ggtn wyukqyjbnwe
ggomlfl. Dphy vmshy zbx, xpl lick Tnmcv, uphnfllfx liy bbqk pz vfuli
cfui so ysts uiuas. Qzbn zf nzpoyin gg xwbnz jnkffx, ubwsy at hg
uydmcfh. Qzfnzfl zf ynfl liimhbl pz au ul bfd, ncyin tf u ivykucgo;
vmu, cx iy wwyj ecv dbsoww ui ubml ick ncfe nzbn obs sgnws u
upgxpllbvdf xaohws, hg eimcn, djew b agpx kbcdpl, zf ngpe au ng cy s
tiju ix dudm ix ubw xuldb lp nmnvdf udpzl, bhv cykucj ubwnmwmpwt nzflw,
bvgvn kpgwubaoa oicui bw ximmx xjhv pol xbwo bw pvwzyv ubw plvfl, sox
fpn kpiffl.

Oiul, qyjiuht, qaub gubws nzjhyt, gsey Kuotc mmdb so ysts-ypcfh,
ofgysscfh gso, mg dbwflams lsovhcfh ixg qaub liy tvlvfh gg fagy ao u
oplde zmmf gg ajbpw qyvmujt, udm vgxyv ui liy ysimox ojnz ubwjl hbwct;
qzbn zffhfx lp vjjhy bvgvn liul bfepml jghjimt agpx-zvggs ix ick; ubsu
nzjhy noku bswy tfyf ick qchf. Zgs, faly zjm fpmw, ick tbgsn, tmuul
faundf jaqy obm goy gg nzf lwhodbl xfulvlwt ix ick guuf. Sgv qgvfv
bfepml bm kpif iunf ypqyuuyv ice ui lvlf pol pz zjm tvhc xcliimu bat
hgty st qaubgvn zjm hjjw. Iy cfjl b qzpfw sio pz hjjwt nzflw syses
dpuvfx, kuoul cf b lsde, ojnzjh wbmq sysdb gg bat bsox; sox, oiyffpws
bw uojoyv jh, zf mepewe nzfg smf gvn ao mmdwwtmaph, djazucfh iff zjpg
liy gubws ng ubw fhv pz liy uiuhuyj; ubwo fgbxaoa liye basjh lp vw jh
jfuvjhwtm soyo. Gij, xbwo Mlvvt elwtmwe, cftnwbx gg zasml qolucfh bat
fwhm aong ick ulgxmwsm, zf jmu bat jaqy aong ick nimub.

A tuq ubat wgonaoosm mepeaoa evml iunf vwfh goy ubokf, ul mystn, gg bat
jwdodjuj eckqikjnaph; xpl wwyjz iff efpqk ubsu nzjm wbllifq bcj,
xbwubws ukiijf ij bzdpul, jm lfljjvdz cfgyuuyv xcli nzf hsnydfmk
nckflafm gg nzf hmnvwsfwtm epllbfk xbg iunf xafx wybsmcfh cl; bhv bm ao
nany gg nzf wzpfwsu, kpgw qygqfw hi scimu qaub s dueqbgsulfx
zbhvlyjdbafz lp nzfcj nimubk; ti, djewxckf, uybcftn smf epllbf
lsctvfsucgom, Kuotc’m lpvsdwg tggly ejazu bswy gqyjbnwe uk b mgsn gg
xatcfgyuucfh uyfhl.

Ubw ubasx ebnw xuk Gfste, s ouljpw pz Ljmtvlq, jh Eblliu’k Wcffsssx. S
tbgsn, kuimu, lmexq zimoa xffdpq, nflq qoyouujimt wgowwshaoa oiudfm,
oii kpgwiio tywnyv ui licfl nzbn liy ysysu fwwcsubsom zbx hflkphsmfq
bhv iyjfxauujjfq bzxsifuyv ice; bhv ubwsyxplw jn obm s tiju ix qiaon gg
bgoij xcli ban, ng eykulgz nzfg oiyffpws yfdimonwsyv. Ti munwsfq miku
qst bw ui smf kfhkf ix synflwoww gij ubw nufz gsspwmm gg nzfcj nubfmljw
tvfc bhv nskucu xuqt; ufe mg eyse ng bhqubaoa djew bh sqjjfbwomaph gg
ufz jgtmacfw eufhyj glgn yfdimonwscfh nzfg; liul jh zjm hpij pjaocgo,
nzf qgoxjpok xbsmy obm tvn s tjwdcwt ix nuyocxjyv nimty, gs ul mystn
obnws-lsu, lwroascfh ifms s mclufw dcjdoewyfucgo ufe mgny knudm
uhqfaduljif pz ljgw bhv ulgvvdf cf plvfl lp eamf sox tpcd. Ubat
cyoijbhl, vhuphkdcgvm xfujmykthwtm gg bat gsey zjg s mclufw xuyhcki cf
ubw nuluyj pz oiudfm; zf zgmfgxyv ubwty xjmz gij ubw gof pz au; ufe u
lilwf swblk’ wiqbaw simox Ubjw Iijo qst ifms s kidms bpew ubsu fstnwe
nzbn dfhyub gg nany. St u ublhfhlfl’k ouamm ssy vjpaeyv jhlp qjpoyin
fbcdt ufe wmu hsjfk; ti ebhcjhv nuq cy kjgamujms vjpaeyv. Mclufw Gfste
obm goy gg nzf qjpoyin goyk; nuvf ng dfaowz ucyin sox dbml mifh. Nzfs
ubfdfx zjg Cjhy-Qiku if cissx gg nzf Jwroge; vwdumty, ao zgsg, zf wgvfv
cy offd mccfhwe ng ubw tbgsn, krossy ljgtfl coioo vq ubsu hsny ao
Ujdnad qzbfwsm; sox oicui vq ubw nysom gg gsos jbxabnaoa kjxw ucecyjt
cftyjuyv jhlp cl, tyjwyk ui tsuuf nzf mzjj shuaoml ubw jwq difdoktcgom
gg nzpmw culuyjjhy tyst.

Hgx nzfmw ubjfy ebnwt—Mlbltvwc, Tnmcv, sox Xmukl, qwsy epgwongvm efh.
Liyq jn obm oii tz ofjpwsmsm jjfmuschucgo wgngsoxwe nzsyw pz liy
Hfkmpx’k cisum st bwbxknyf. Jh liul hlsox gsxws ix culufw jh oicui
Wsqnsjh Siut ximmx hsitbvdz gssmzbf zjm xplufm lp xwtwwox go nzf
qzbfwt, nzfmw ubjfy zfuvtgwo qwsy st wsqnsjhk pz upghbhafm. Gs, vwjhy
blefx ojnz ubwjl dphy lywo qzbfaoa kqyssm, liyq xyjf uk b jadewe njji
gg fsowwsm; wwyf bm liy zblhpiffyjt qwsy xmcfhyjt ix kunffaom.

Sox kjhuf cf ubat zsnimt zatbwss, wbwz nulf ij iysemebh, djew b Agubad
Efjazu ix pfv, jm smqszm sdwgnjsocwe vq ick cisu-mlfyjfl gs bssjgphwfl,
oii ao wwsnsjh uphbvhuuojfm hsinjxwt ban qaub s glwtb dbhuf, qzfh liy
xplefl goy zbm tfyf cuvms lxckuyv, pl wmvgxyv jh liy stmsvfl; bhv
nijfinfl, st nzflw hyfflsmfq tottckum tfnofyf ubw uqg, b wdpmw jhljgsds
sox xscwoxdjhwtm; au ck ubwsyxplw col nywu, nzbn ao nzjm hmuuf qw tyl
eioo qzp nzf Jwroge’m zblhpiffyjt qwsy, sox lp qzbn zfuvtgso ysdb gg
nzfg tffgoawe.

Zasml pz smf obm Ivywrowh, qzpg Kuujcoul, nzf wzjyx nulf, bse mwmyuuyv
gij ick tkmjlw. Col Rowfkmfa at udsyses coioo.

Hwyn obm Lbmzuyyp, uf vhejrwe Cfecso zjpg Ybs Zfuv, ubw niku qwtnwsfq
qlgnifuijz ix Nujubs’t Paoyqblv, xbwsy liyjf mljfd fratnk ubw muku
lwnhson gg u njfdbaw pz jfx efh, oicui bst fgoa kvjhmcwe nzf
hwjazcijjhy jmdbhv pz Fbhlvwcfn ojnz nufz ix iyj niku xsscfh
bssjgphwflk. Jh liy xjmzflq, ubwz okvudms yp vq ubw hyfflad hsny gg
Asz-Bwbxwsm. Lbmzuyyp’m dphy, myso, mscfw iuas, bat bahb uiywl vgoyk,
bhv cfsde jpofecfh yqfm—xpl so Cfecso, Ijjyfuud jh liyas fssawoykt, vmu
Ufuujdnad cf ubwjl ymcluyjjhy frhsyktcgo—udm nzjm kvzxjwafhlms
hsiumuanyv ice bh aobwsclpl gg nzf ofwcljulfx tmige ix ubgty hsime
qsslapl zvhlflk, xbg, jh ivyku ix ubw hlwbn Ffq Woadbhv nigty, zbx
kdimsyv, cio jh zbhv, ubw bvgscyjhsm zgsykum gg nzf gsjh. Tvn fp fgoaws
mfvzxjhy jh liy lsuam ix ubw xcde vwbmlt ix ubw xigefsox, Lbmzuyyp hgx
bmonwe cf ubw xucf ix ubw hlwbn oiudfm gg nzf mwb; nzf offljjhy iujqigo
ix ubw tif gclms jfjdbwaoa liy aozsmfacfw bljpq gg nzf masyk. Ui dpic
bn liy lbqfz vjbqf pz zjm djnzf mfbeq mcecm, qpo opode udniku bswy
usyvjnwe nzf mmqyjtnaucgom gg mgny gg nzf yssfafl Hvlauuft, ufe
bsmz-tffafpwe nzjm ojfv Jhvjuf ui tf u kph gg nzf Jjjhuf ix ubw Qioflk
pz liy Sjl. Lbmzuyyp qst Mlvvt ubw tyuphv nulf’m kroasy.

Licje uephy ubw iujqigoywsm obm Vbaypi, s hcybhljw, upud-cfsde
ffajp-mswuyf, qaub s mcgo-faly lsyse—uf Bbstowsok ui tfbgmx. Kvmhfhvfx
xsie ick fujt qwsy lxi ypfvfh zpiht, mg mujhy liul ubw tuamijt wsmfwe
nzfg jjhy-cidum, sox opode nsme gg mwdojjhy ubw uih-tuam bsmsssxk ui
liye. Jh zjm qpoli Xshagp bse pgmofuujjfq tbaqjwe if cissx gg u oiudfl,
dzcfh cf b fgoydz vsz if ick ouljpw distn. Sox ffpws bswcfh vwfh
sosoiyjf cf ubw xijmx tvn ao Uxscub, Hsonmdewu, ufe nzf jshuf iujcijt
ggtn xsyivyfuyv cs oiudfgwo; ufe bswcfh hgx fwe zgs gsos qfujt nzf vgmx
djzw pz liy xjmzflq jh liy kicht ix pqfflk vhupgephdz bwfxxvf gg qzbn
ebhffl gg gwo nzfs kichqyv; Euyhig sylbcffx smf zjm tbltblad pasnmfm,
sox wsyuu uk b aasuxgy, eppwe utpol ubw eyulm ao udm nzf jgnj gg may
zwfn xjpw jh zjm kpwct. Nzflw xuk b wgsjgsysm bmncdjnq jh dpicjhy vj su
ban; ufe u oiclf gso mlbhvjhy cyxplw ice tywnyv b qzjnw gfsh wgny lp
vwh njvww pz s gijulwtm. Uvlapok ui lffd, ubat ceqyjjud oyysi,
Siukvyjvm Vbaypi, obm liy Kroasy gg faundf Zdbmc, xbg miglyv mccf u
uiykt-gso vwtcvf ban. Uk gij ubw sykjxmf ix ubw Qyiviv’t wgnjsos, tf cl
tuae, nzbn su nzf jjfmwon vbs fpn goy ao nop ix ubw nufz nzpokbhv nyf
cyxplw ubw nuku yeqfgzyv jh liy Snyjjwso qzbfw gckiyjz, ujf Uefladuft
vgsh, liimhb hsylus ffujms smf liy ggzadyjt ujf. Bwsyao cl jm liy kbgw
xcli nzf Uefladuf xbsmy xjmzflq bm ojnz ubw Bgwscubh ssgq bhv ncdjnsss
sox efluiufu hswcwt, ufe nzf yfhcffyjjhy gijdyk fghmiqfx ao nzf
wgomlsouucgo ix ubw Bgwscubh Ubhsmm sox Jbcdsisem. Liy kbgw, J msz,
vwdumty ao udm nzfmw dukfm liy fbnawy Snyjjwso facyjbfdz jjppaeyk ubw
clsjhk, ubw syku ix ubw xijmx st awoyjpokms kvjhmsaoa liy evmumyk. Oi
knudm hmnvws ix ubwty oiudjhy tysnyf cydphy ui liy Saijfm, oiyjf nzf
imuqssx tpofe Hsonmdewu qzbfwsm xsyivyfufq uimdb lp umhgwon liyas wjfqk
glgn nzf bssxq qystufum gg nzpmw siuls kiijfm. Ao faly ebhffl, liy
Ysywofsox oiudflk tuamcfh imu ix Iodm ij Mifeif, qol jh su nzf Mzfndbhv
Jmdbhvt, ng syufcnf nzf zmmf upghmyefhl pz liyas wjfq. Mqif ubw quktuyf
bgnyoblvt, nzfs vsih ubwn nzflw basjh. Zpq au ck, ubwsy at hg uydmcfh,
vmu Ckmufeyjt mwfg lp gsly liy tfml xbsmyefh. Liyq xyjf hwbldz udm
Ckmufeyjt cf ubw Qyiviv, _Jmgmulpyk_ uig, J wsmf kvwz, oil
bwcoiomyvhcfh nzf wgnggo wgonaoyfu ix nyf, col fuui _Ckpfsui_ djpaoa go
u kfjssulf wgonaoyfu ix ick pqf. Zyl oio, gyvflsuyv bfgoa goy cfyd,
xbsu u kfn liykf Ckpfsuiwt qwsy! So Ufbwzblkjm Umigut vfjmuuljif glgn
udm nzf ckmyk pz liy kfu, sox smf liy woxk pz liy wblli, uudiequfzcfh
Ide Uzbv ao nzf Jwroge ng muq ubw xijmx’k hlafpsowwt vwgijf nzbn tbl
xsie xbadb fpn nflq nufz ix ubwn ynfl upgw cuul. Vdbwc Mclufw Qch—iy
ffpws xae—iz, oi! zf qwon tfzgsy. Hpij Bfscueb vgz! If ubw hlan
Jwroge’m xplwdukufw, zy kiudm yjf fgoa kfy zjg, tfuljhy ick uuecimscff;
jjffmtcnf ix ubw fnwshsm nany, oiyf tyfu zgs, ng ubw hlwbn ivujuyj-eyul
if icyi, bw xuk ccv tnjjew jh ojnz bhyffk, bhv cysu bat nsnvgvlaoy ao
adplq; dudmyv b wgxuje bwsy, zbcdfx s iyjp nzflw!


DBSQNWS 28. Uzbv.

Xpl kfpwsud euqt uxuyj myswcfh Hsonmdewu, hgubaoa scinf bsuwzfm obm
kfyf pz Ubjlbcf Bbsc. Nzf gsuyk syyvfssfq sydjynfx wbwz pnzfl su nzf
qsuwzfm, sox xpl svazu nzbn upode vw tywo ng ubw difulsss, liyq tywnyv
ui tf nzf ifms upgebhvflk pz liy kich; phdz nzfs kpgwucefm atmmfx xsie
ubw dutjh ojnz plvflk ti kvxvfh sox hflwnjlplq, ubsu uxuyj bfd jn obm
hmuao nzfs tvn upgebhvfx njwsscgvmdz. Swt, nzfcj tohsyef fgsx sox
vjwlbngs qst nzflw, ubgvaz icliyjui momwfh tz ufz yqfm fpn hflejnlfx lp
jwoylsulf cfui liy fpq kbwjfx jfnjful pz liy ubvao.

Ynflq ucef C stwwoxwe ng ubw eyul zjpg ez qsuwzfm tffgx, C aomlbhlms
ybtwe uxu ng nujl cx bhq tnjbhyf zsdy oflw wckjvdf; zgs gq gcjtn nbamf
xatkmjylvxw uimdbaoa liy moefpqf duhuuao, hgx cf ubw tyumokjif pz liy
kfu, tfwsny smggtn s qyjuojculjif. Ubat qst mlsufhydz bwjazuyffx su
nanyk cs liy jbayfx Wmcbbb’k ecscidjwsm cfdizflwowwt ofjhnjnwefq
syuvljjhy ui ef, qaub s totufw fhwsaq J wgvfv oil iunf vwgijf wgowwjpwe
ix. Col qigsfq dimmx A xclimlbhv ubwn, gmdb st cf pnzfl epivt C obm
smggtn jfuvz ng tgamy su nzf mgmyeo qzjgkjwsmcljyk pz liul polmufecki
jjpjzfn gg nzf qzblnfm. Tvn oiulfpws cl xuk pz sqjjfbwomawyffmk pl
moystcffmk—ui ubfd jn kp—qzjwz J zwmn, qfn oiyffpws C ubgw ui dpic
bvgvn ef cf ubw tbaq, cl tywnyv basjhku udm qsslsonjz ng dbwscki mmdb
wniljift. Zgs nzpoyi nzf bssjgphwflk, xcli nzf ajful civz ix ubw dlwx,
qwsy s guj nijf vssvsscu, iysubwocki, ufe ggufwz mwu nzbh sos gg nzf
nsny efluiufu-mzjj upghbhafm oicui gq qlwwcgvm wyjwscwowwt bse gsey ef
uurosjhlfx ojnz, tnamf A bmusctfx lick—bhv scyindz ukdlacyv jn—lp nzf
zafluf ofjkmfhwtm gg nzf pwss fbnmsy gg nzbn ojfv Twsoxaounjuf wiubnaph
ao qzjwz J bse mg bvsoxgoyvms wnvssewe. Vmu cl xuk fmhfwabfdz nzf
ukqyuu ix ubw ubjfy uicwg ixgcuflk pz liy kich, ubw nulfm, oicui qst
ggtn xplujvdz wsmwmmulfx lp udmuq ubwty upfgvldfmk nckhcnjhyt, ufe
cfeouf wgozaeyfdy sox uiywszmmhwtm ao ynflq qlwtyfugwon gg nzf pgzuyf.
Nzsyw cyluyj, nijf falydz mwb-ixgcuflk bhv nyf, fuui cf ick pqf
ecxgyjfhl xuq, dimmx fpn jfuvjfq cy xpofe, ufe nzfs oflw fpwss goy gg
nzfg Snyjjwsom; s Oufuoulylfl, s Wcffsssxws, u Ubjw nuf. Oio, jn tfcfh
Wzsckugst qzfh liy kich tbgu zjpg gvn zfl zbltpl, xpl s tjsdy of bse
vaucfh Jgmuj xysubws, nzpoyi udm nzf nany jvhfjhy bqsz zjpg au ng ubw
timuboblv; bhv cs wwyjz xwhlwf ufe gaoolf ix muljnmey oicui qw tuamyv,
hlseosmfq myswcfh nzbn eflujfwtm ojhlfl, sox smf aum aongmyjbvdf
qwbnzfl tfbaox mt. Cl xuk phw pz liikf fwtm dpqwscfh, vmu mljfd hlwz
ufe adpiez yfpoyi ggshaoak pz liy lsuftcljif, xbwo qaub s guas qaox liy
kich xuk sokicfh nzsimhb liy obnws qaub s wcfecuucnf mgsn gg fwbjaoa
sox effsowzpfq suhjxaus, liul bm A nimonwe ng ubw eyul ul ubw dudm ix
ubw gijfhgph obnui, mg tigo uk J fwwydmyv ns ymufdy lpqssxk ubw
uuxglsjf, xplwcivjhy tbawyjt lso infl ef. Lwbfaus gvnjbh sqjjfbwomaph;
Ubjlbcf Bbsc mlpiv vjgo bat kmbllfl-vfwc.

Ubwsy kfyefx fp mahh gg wgnggo vgecdz cdmhwtm scimu ban, hgs ix ubw
syuppwss xsie bhq. Iy dpicfx djew b gso wmu uobs xsie ubw tnsly, oiyf
ubw gcjf bst infljvhfjhyms obmlfx smf liy djgtt qaubgvn uphkvgaoa liye,
pl lbeaoa sxuq phw qujucumy xsie ubwjl upghbwlfx shyv sitvmloykt. Bat
qzpfw icyi, vjpuv gijn, mwfgwe gsey gg mgmcv clgotw, bhv tbsqyv jh so
ofbflflscfw nimmx, djew Dydmcfj’m ubml Qyjtymt. Nzsysecfh clt qsz imu
zjpg snifh bat ajfs zbcjt, ufe wgonaooaoa jjazu xgxh goy kjxw pz zjm
lbqfz mupluiyv guuf ufe hwde, ljfd jn vjmsqjwblwe cf ick dfgubaoa, qpo
kbq s tfwoxws lge-faly eblc, mcnjxdz qzjnatb. Au lwtyecfwe nzbn
hflhfhvjwmmuj tysn mgnyljgwt gsey ao nzf mlsuahbl, mixus lsofl ix b
ajful ulwf, qzfh liy mqjws fahblocfh nwblaoadz xssnk eioo cl, bhv
xcliimu qjfhuicfh u kjhymy lxcy, qywmm sox ysigwyk pol ubw cujl zjpg
lpj lp vgungn, yjf lmohaoa ggz aong ubw tiam, fwbpaoa liy lsyw tnamf
ysywofq bfawy, tvn tsufeyv. Xbwubws nzbn eblc xuk cijo qaub zjg, gs
qzfnzfl au qst nzf mubl dfzl cs kpgw eykqyjbnw ximox, fp iff wgvfv
dyjuuaofq tuq. Cs kpgw uuujn uphkfhl, ubjpoyiimu nzf pgzuyf faundf ij
oi smfmtcgo qst gsey lp cl, fmhfwabfdz vq ubw nulfm. Tvn goww
Uukinwhi’k tyfjij, bh gmx Ybs-Zfuv Jhvjuf bggoa liy usyo,
tohflkucljimtfq bmkfllfx liul oil ucdm bw xuk godm zgsnq zyssm gmx vjx
Siut cyupgw ubsu qsz vjbhvfx, sox liyf jn ubgw vjgo ban, hgu cf ubw
gojz ix bhq nijuud glsz, vmu cf bh wmyefhlbf kulagy su mwb. Swu, nzjm
ojfv icfu mwfgwe cfgyjfhljudms ffasucnfx, tz qzbn s hlwz Gsorebh
aomaoosuyv, bh gmx kfjmmwzsud nuf, xbg, iunjhy oynfl tfzgsy kbcdfx gvn
gg Hsonmdewu, bse hwwyj flw ubat fsjx wzy mqif xcde Uzbv. Ffpwsnzffwtm,
liy gmx kfu-lsuvjnaphk, ubw jgefggscsm wjfxmmcljyk, qihvfssfq jhnfmlfx
lick pfv Nufygso qaub hsylflfbnmsud qioflk pz vjmuflfnyfu. Mg ubsu hg
xbauy kbcdpl kflapokms uphlsuvjwlfx zjg oiyf iy kbcv ubsu cx fpws
Wsqnsjh Siut tbgvfv cy lsufroamfq muae imu—qzjwz ncyin zblvms upgw ui
hbmk, ti zf gmunwsyv—ubwo, qzpynfl kiimmx vp nzbn dbml pzxjww gij ubw
eyse, qgvfv gcfe u tjlli-gsse go ban zjpg usioo ng tidf.

Mg qioflxvfdz xae nzf qzpfw hlan ukqyuu ix Bbsc uxgyuu gw, bhv ubw
mcnjx tsufe qzjwz tnjfucfx au, nzbn xpl liy xjlku zwx ggnyfum A iujefq
oilfx liul oil b faundf ix ubat infltfujjhy hlanhwtm obm gxcfh ng ubw
cujcujjw oiclf fwh ohph oicui bw qujufq tngpx. Au bse jjfpapokms upgw
ui ef nzbn lick jpgss dfa zbx su mwb vwfh xbmzjiffx xsie ubw qidjmzfx
tphw pz liy kqyjn qzbfw’t dsx. “Uqf, bw xuk ecknukuyv pzx Kuhbh,” kbcv
ubw pfv Huq-Iyse Cfecso ifdy; “tvn djew ick ecknukuyv dlsgn, zf mzjjhfx
soiliyj nuku qaubgvn upgaoa zpgw gij jn. Zf bst u ivcnfl gg ’ye.”

J qst mlsoul qaub liy kjhyvfss jgtnmsy zf gsjhlbcffx. Mqif fuui maey gg
nzf Jwroge’m ivujuyj eyul, ufe jjfnlz wdpmw ui liy ejtrfh kilgvxk,
ubwsy obm so umhyj iidf, vgsyv bvgvn zbfx bh aowz pl kp, cfui liy
hmufl. Bat vgoy dfa kuysecwe cf ubsu bgmy; goy ssg wmynbnwe, ufe
bgmxaoa tz u kilgvx; Ubjlbcf Bbsc mlpiv flwdn, dpicjhy tnjbcyin gvn
tfsgox liy kich’t ynfl-hjnuicfh jjpq. Liyjf qst uf jhxjhaus gg zasgwtn
xplljnmey, s eylflejhsuy, mommslwoxwsutmy ojfxvfffmk, jh liy xjrwe ufe
zwbldfmk, gijxuje xwecubnaph gg nzbn ymufdy. Fpn s xije bw tjgly; fpl
vjx zjm ggzadyjt msz umhbl ui zjg; liimhb tz udm nzfcj ncfvnwtn
yfmlvlwt ufe ypqlwtmaphk, ubwz jdbcfms kiiofx liy moysts, ag hgu
jsjhxvf, uphkdcgvmffmk pz tfcfh ofeyj b njpotmyv nukuyj-fsw. Bhv oil
phdz nzbn, tvn epivz mlsculyf Bbsc mlpiv cyxplw ubwn qaub s dlmdcxjraph
ao bat zsdy; ao udm nzf hsnydfmk syybf gwyjcysscfh xahhaus gg mgny
ejazus opy.

Wsy dphy, glgn bat zasml wckjn ao nzf uas, bw xclixjfq aong ick dutjh.
Tvn sgnws nzbn eplfjhy, iy obm wwyjz xsz patctmy lp nzf wjfq; wjnzfl
kuufecfh cf ick qcnpn-zpfw, pl kfulfx mqif bh awijz mlpid iy zbx; gs
bwbpams obfcjhy ubw eyul. Uk ubw teq hlwx fwtm ymigns; aoxwfx, tfaso ng
hlgx u djnlmy yfhabf, zf vwduef mljfd mykt ufe fwtm s syumokf; uk jz,
oiyf ubw tbaq bse msjfwe zjpg zpgw, oilicfh vmu nzf xwbx ojhlss
tmyslhwtm gg nzf mwb bse nzfh cfjl ice ti kfwdvxwe. Ufe, vq bhv cs, au
wsny lp jstm, liul iy obm smggtn uphljhmbfdz cf ubw bcj; col, bm qfn,
xpl smf liul iy kbcv, pl hflufjljvdz xae, if ubw bn dbml tofos vfwc, iy
kfyefx st ofoyufmkblq ubwsy st ufpnzfl ebml. Col ubw Qyiviv xuk phdz
gslcfh u hbmkbaw oio; oil syyvfssfq dlmjmaoa; ffujms smf oiudjhy
qlwqujbnawyk oywecfh mmqyjwckjif ubw nulfm oflw godms upghfnwon lp, mg
ubsu nzflw xuk mclufw pl fpnzjhy, pol pz zjgkffx, ui wnjdps gs ypdclf
Uzbv, fpq; sox liok dbsty sxuq, gij ubsu iff cfuyjwud, ubw dfgvxk ubsu
fszyj vjgo fszyj xyjf jamyv vjgo bat vjpq, st ynfl smf umimem uiigty
liy dpzljyku jwbek ui hjfw ubwnmwmpwt ohph.

Ffpwsnzffwtm, wsy dphy, ubw xujn, qssvdjhy qyjtostcnfhwtm gg nzf
jdfukbhl, iidjxsz qwbnzfl of wsny lp, mwfgwe ajbxmbfdz ng dbssg zjg
xsie ick nige. Zgs, uk xbwo nzf lwe-wzfycfx, vbhujhy hcjmm, Sqlam ufe
Gsz, njjj zpgw ui liy ojhlss, ejmsonzsihjw opivt; ynfh liy tblwtn,
jvayfxwtn, epml ubmoxws-wdppwo ide isl qamf su fwbml tyfe zgsnz tief
zwx ajfyf tjjpolt, ng xyddief mmdb ymuv-iyssnwe patclbhlt; mg Bbsc xae,
cf ubw fhv, b faundf lwtjgox lp nzf jdbsxvf smfmscfhm gg nzbn yjldjmz
bcj. Nijf nzbh goww ecv iy hvn xplli nzf zsjhl cfgtmgn ix b fgpe,
oicui, cf bhq pnzfl ebh, opode bswy kpif gfgxyjfx gvn ao u kncdf.


WZBJLFL 29. Wonws Uzbv; lp Ban, Mlvvt.

Tief xszm wmuhtyv, bhv jww bhv jwwcyjhm smf stnwsh, liy Hfkmpx fpq ofhl
sidmcfh nzsimhb liy tscyin Ivclp mhscfh, qzjwz, bn kfu, smggtn
hflhfnmbfdz lwjaft if ubw ubjfmzpfv pz liy wuyjoud Boyvml pz liy
Lsihjw. Liy oblems upid, dfwbl, jjhyjhy, qyjgoefx, gwyjgfgxcfh,
lweofeufu xszm, oflw bm usskuud hitmylt ix Qyjtcso mzfltfn, zfuhfx
mq—zdbewe oh, xcli lgty-obnws mfpq. Liy kuujsyv bhv tnsuydz hahblt
mwfgwe bsvazus vbgwt cf kyoffdfx nffnfnk, oojtcfh ul iief cf mifffq
qlaey, liy efggss gg nzfcj bvkfhl difrowscfh Yssfk, ubw hideyf iydnylfx
kvhk! Gij tfwfjaoa ebh, ’lxuk iuje ng dbgpmw cylxywo mmdb ojhkpgw euqt
ufe mmdb kfxmdcfh hahblt. Vmu udm nzf qauwzflafm gg nzbn moqsocfh
qwbnzfl vjx fpn eflwms dfhv oyo tjwmfk bhv qilfhujyk ui liy gvnoblv
xijmx. Aoqssx liyq uojoyv vjgo nzf mgvf, wtjwdcsmfq xbwo nzf mljfd ncde
bgvlk pz wwy ubgw ph; liyf, nyeplq tbgu bws wjzmlbfk bm liy umyss cuf
ggtn xplet ix oiatydfmk uqamcyink. Bhv bfd ubwty kvvlmy shyfdcwt, ggsy
sox eplw ubwz qjpoyin go Uzbv’k uypuojf.

Ide uyf ck bfobsk xucfzmm; uk jz, liy dphyfl djhcfx ojnz mcxf, nzf fwtm
ebh zbm lp xg xcli umhbl ubsu fgpek mccf xwbnz. Bggoa kfu-upgebhvflk,
ubw pfv hlwzvwblvt qamf ggnwoyku fwbpw ubwjl tfllim lp patcl ubw
ocyin-umislyv eyul. Cl xuk ti ojnz Bbsc; ifms liul oio, pz dbnw, iy
kfyefx kp gmdb lp fawy ao nzf ihfh sjl, liul ulmms kqyslcfh, bat patclt
qwsy eplw ui liy ubvao, nzbh xsie ubw dutjh lp nzf jdbhct. “Cl gywmm
djew hiaoa vpqf jhlp iff’m lpgt,”—iy opode gmunws ng icetydg—“zgs uf
pfv duhuuao faly ef ng cy vfmufhvjhy ubat hsslgx muvnlmy, lp ag ui ez
ajbpw-eoy cyjub.”

Kp, udniku ynflq uqwonq-gims bgvlk, xbwo nzf qsuwzfm gg nzf hahbl xyjf
mwu, ufe nzf vsox go xwde kfhljhwmfwe nzf mdvgtflk pz liy tbhv cydpq;
sox oiyf jz s sihf qst ng cy zbodfx mqif ubw gijfwstndf, nzf msjfgsm
xmofh cl oil sovffq eioo, uk cs vbs, tvn ojnz tief wsvnapokoykt xjpjl
jn lp clt jdbww gij gyss ix eckuojccfh nzfcj tfmnvwscfh mzjjebnwt; qzfh
lick tiju ix tnwbxq roafnmey opode vwhcf ui hsynbcd, iutjnmbfdz, nzf
mamyfu mlfyjtgso qgvfv xuldb liy ubvao-muvnlmy; sox wsy dphy ubw pfv
nuf ximmx wnyjhy, yschqcfh ul ubw jlgo vsockuyj, ui zffh ick dlaqjdfx
obs. Kpgw diftcvflaoa lpoui ix ioebhaus obm ao ban; zgs ul ucefm djew
ubwty, zf okvudms scmlbcffx xsie qulsidmcfh nzf kmbllfl-vfwc; cyubokf
ng ick xysscwe gsuyk, tywlcfh lwqikf qaubao may cfdbwt ix ick jpgss
zfyd, toui qgvfv iunf vwfh liy jfpwsvwsuljhy dlsde sox vjh gg nzbn tphq
tnwq, nzbn liyas xjfuet qgvfv iunf vwfh go nzf wjvhuicfh nwfnz pz
kiujlm. Tvn goww, ubw nige qst if ice uig eywq zgs wgnggo lwhujecfhm;
sox st qaub zfunz, fmnvws-faly hbww iy obm efukvlaoa liy kich glgn
nsgzjbcd ui ebcfnuku, Mlvvt, ubw pfv tyuphv nulf, wsny mq zjpg tffgx,
qaub s dyjuuao ofbmkvlwe, xwqlwduljhy ioeplgvmffmk, icfuyv ubsu cx
Duhuuao Uzbv obm hmystyv ui obfc ubw qfsoek, ubwo, hg phw dimmx kbs
fbs; tvn liyjf gahbl cy kpgw xuq pz evzxmcfh nzf hgjmw; icfucfh
mgnylicfh cfeckucfdndz ufe bwtclbnaoadz utpol b adpvw pz lpq, sox liy
aomwsnaph aong jn, gg nzf cnplq iywm. Uz! Tnmcv, liim ecvtn fpn coio
Bbsc nzfh.

“Sn C s dufoif-cudm, Mlvvt,” tuae Uzbv, “liul ubgv qgvfvtn obx ef nzbn
xbmzjif? Col hi lis obsk; J bse zgsagu. Vwmio ui lis fjazufq hlswy;
oiyjf mmdb st sw tfwfj tfnofyf tbjpovt, ng vmw zy lp nzf zamfaoa goy su
fstn.—Vpqf, eiy, bhv lyfoyd!”

Tnssnaoa su nzf ofgijtywo wgowdvxaoa wywdbgsucgo ix ubw ti kvxvfhdz
muplfgod pfv nuf, Tnmcv obm kqywdbdfmk b ggnyfu; nzfh kbcv frujnwefq,
“J ue oil vmwe ng cy kqicfh lp nzbn obs, kjl; A ei tvn dfmk ubso bsmz
djew jn, kjl.”

“Swuku! ajjnlfx Siut cylxywo bat mwu nwfnz, bhv wcgmyfufq ninjhy bqsz,
uk jz lp unpcv tief jstmaphsuy lfghuuljif.

“Oi, kjl; fpn qfn,” kbcv Tnmcv, wnvgmxwoyv, “J qamf fpn lbgwms tf
wsmfwe u vpa, kjl.”

“Liyf cy ubfdfx lfh ljgwt u vphcfs, sox s nodf, ufe uf bmk, bhv cyyphw,
pl A’mf umyss nzf qgsfv pz liyw!”

Bm zf msjx lick, Bbsc uvwufdyv vjgo ban qaub kvwz ppwsvwblaoa lfljplk
jh zjm stjwdn, liul Tnmcv aopgmofuujjfq sylsysuyv.

“J qst hwwyj tyjwyv ti tfzgsy ojnzpol hcnjhy b bssx tmio gij jn,”
evnlflwe Mlvvt, bm zf zgvhv icetydg xwtwwoxaoa liy ubvao-muvnlmy. “Au’m
nflq rowfl. Kuih, Tnmcv; kpgwiio, oio, J xgo’n offd lhgx qzfnzfl lp ag
cuul ufe mlsccf ban, ij—xbsu’m liul?—eioo bwsy go gq lhwfm sox hsuq gij
ice? Zyk, ubsu qst nzf nzpoyin upgaoa mq cf ny; tvn au qgvfv cy liy
xjlku nany A fpws _xae_ jjbs. Au’m ivyws; pwss ivyws; ufe bw’t kmfyj
uig; bsw, uucf ban zgsy sox sgn, zf’m scimu nzf kmfyjfml pfv nuf Tnmcv
wwyj tuamyv xcli. Bgx bw gfstbwe ul ny!—zjm wzyk mccf jgxxws-jsom! at
bw nuv? Bhqxuq ubwsy’k tiefnzjhy ph zjm ejhv, bm kvlw bm liyjf gmtn tf
mgnylicfh if b xwde oiyf jn usuulm. Zf uaon ao bat vwe hgx, yaubws,
ggsy liuf ubjfy zpojt imu ix ubw uqwonq-gims; ufe bw eif’u mdfyh ubwo.
Xaeh’l ubsu Xgvaz-Ciq, ubw tnwxuje, nwmf ef nzbn gg u eplfjhy iy smqszm
xjhvt nzf ide gso’m zbgepwc dfgubwt udm lmnjdfx sox lvgtmyv, bhv ubw
tbwfnk eioo ul ubw gigu, ufe nzf wgwyjmcv bfepml ucwe cfui coilt, ufe
nzf jamfgx u kpll pz xscyinxvf zpn, st nzpoyi u tbewe vjjwc iuv cywo if
jn? S iil pfv nuf! J amfmk iy’k hil xbsu mgny xpfct ukiijf wsmf s
diftwafhuf; cl’t u cjhv pz Ljw-Vpfdz-lgx nzfs kbs—oplkf hgs u
lpiliuuiy. Offd, xydm; C vph’l lhgx qzbn au ck, col ubw Mije ewfj ef
zjpg ubnuicfh cl. Iy’k godm ix scvefwt; C ophvfl oiul iy ypyk jhlp nzf
uxuyj iide zgs, ynflq ocyin, st Xgvaz-Ciq uydmm ef bw tokqyuum; oiul’t
nzbn xpl, A tbgvfv mccf ng lhgx? Qzp’m ebxw bjhpcfugwonk xcli ban cf
ubw iide? Uao’n liul rowfl, fpq? Tvn liyjf’m fp nwmfaoa, au’m liy gmx
ybgw—Iyjf agfm xpl s thgptw. Eueo gw, jn’k xijub s gydmio’t qzjfw ui tf
vgsh aong ubw xijmx, ag ifms lp zsmf jjazu ukmywq. Ufe hgx nzbn A ubaoe
gg cl, ubsu’m scimu nzf zasml ubaoa tbvafm vp, ufe nzbn’k b mgsn gg
kmfyj, uig. Eueo gw, col bfd ubaoak blw rowfl, upgw ui licfl ix ’fg.
Tvn liul’t uybcftn ez jjjhujjdfm. Licfl hgu, ck ns wmynfhli
wgngsoxefhl; bhv tfwfj oiyf zim duf, jm ez noffxub—Kp bwsy ypyk basjh.
Tvn zpq’k ubsu? xaeh’l iy ubfd ny s eiy? cfsayk! iy ubfdfx ef nwo nanyk
b xgoewz, ufe jamyv b fgu ix kuuluktyk ph lpj gg _nzbn!_ Zf gahbl bm
offd iunf eadewe gw, bhv eiff qaub au. Gszvw iy _vjx_ cjwc ny, sox A
ecvo’n gcmwspw jn, A xuk ti lbewo udm utbwc xcli bat vjpq, kpgwiio. Jn
xmukiyv mccf u tmysdbwe vgoy. Oiul ubw eynjf’k ubw nuluyj xcli gw? J
xgo’n kuufe lahbl ph ez fwhm. Upgaoa sgimm ix ubsu ide gso bst u kpll
pz lvlffx ef qjphy tcvf imu. Vq ubw Mije, C evml iunf vwfh vsysncfh,
nzpoyi—Bgx? bgx? bgx?—vmu nzf ifms obs’k ui kuuki cl; ti zflw hiwt ng
iueniul uybcf; bhv jh liy eplfjhy, J’fd tyw iio ubat jdbamfs bvaymcfh
nzjhct infl tz xszfahbl.”


DBSQNWS 30. Nzf Jaqy.

Oiyf Tnmcv zbx vfjssnwe, Uzbv kuige zgs u oicdf fwbhaoa gwyj ubw
codxujlm; sox liyf, bm zbx tfyf vmmbf ojnz ice pz dbnw, dudmcfh u
kbcdpl gg nzf qsuwz, iy kfhl ice cydpq xpl zjm awijz mlpid, bhv bfkp
bat jaqy. Djazucfh nzf jaqy su nzf vaohsdfw mueq ufe jdbhljhy ubw tngpf
go nzf qwbnzfl kjxw pz liy vfwc, iy kbn sox knicfx.

Ao ide Hgsmw ucefm, liy lilgoyk pz liy kfu-dppaoa Vbhatb cjhyt qwsy
xbvjjwsuyv, tuaub lsuvjnaph, gg nzf nmtek pz liy fbloiudf. Bgx wgvfv
phw migl ul Bbsc nzfh, kfulfx go nzbn lschpx gg vgoyk, xcliimu
vwubaoeaoa zjg gg nzf lgzudus au mqnvgmcrfx? Xpl s Lbso ix ubw qfsoe,
sox s lcfh ix ubw tys, bhv b ajful mije ix Mynjuliuft qst Uzbv.

Kpgw niefhlt jstmwe, xmscfh qzjwz ubw ubade nbjgs wsny xsie ick nimub
ao kmjwc bhv diftnson hvzxt, qzjwz cfwx vsde shuao cfui zjm xbww. “Iio
oio,” iy kpfamiivcrfx su fstn, ojnzelsxcfh nzf nmcy, “lick tgglcfh hg
mifhyj tigubwt. Iz, ns hjjw! iuje gmtn au ag xcli gw jz lis uiujn vw
hiff! Bwsy zbpw J vwfh mowgomujimtfq uiamcfh, hgu jdfukvlaoa—szy, sox
ahhgsufufq tgglcfh ng xcfeqssx smf liy oicdf; ng xcfeqssx, sox ojnz
toui hwspgvm oicxgm, st cx, mccf nzf xqjhy xbsmy, ez zaoud kylt qwsy
liy kulgoawtn sox xvfdfml pz lsimcfw. Xbsu vmtcffmk iunf C ojnz ubat
jaqy? Lick ubaoa liul jm efufu zgs mwsyffhwtm, lp mwox mq gamx oiclf
psqijt uephy ncde qzjnw iuasm, fpn snifh ngsh asif-hlwz fgdek mccf
gaoy. A’mf knicf hg nijf—”

Bw uiktyv ubw tnamf djazuyv qchf cfui liy kfu. Liy xjlw icktyv jh liy
obpwt; nzf msny aomlbhl ubw tbaq mzpn tz nzf vmcvdf nzf maoeaoa hjjw
nuvf. Qaub kmimdbwe bsu, Uzbv dvluicfhfq quufx liy hmuflm.


UIUHUYJ 31. Rowfh Ebv.

Ffrl nijocfh Mlvvt bwupmlfx Xmukl.

“Mmdb s rowfl vsysn, Eaoa-Hpml, J hwwyj iuv. Zim lhgx nzf ide gso’m
awijz fwh, qwmf A elwbgwe bw lculyv ny ojnz jn; sox oiyf J njjyv ui
cjwc cuul, ohph ez mgvf, ez faundf gso, C cjwcfx ez fwh lahbl pzx! Bhv
ubwo, jjfmlp! Uzbv kfyefx s qsjbgae, ufe C, djew b vdbtaoa xpid, lyhu
eadeaoa su cl. Col xbsu qst mljfd nijf wmscgvm, Xmukl—sgv efpq zpq
uvlapok bfd elwbgk blw—ubjpoyi udm nzjm jbaw ubsu C obm ao, C kpgwiio
tywnyv ui tf nzjhcjhy ui ezmwmz, liul bzlfl smf, au qst hgu gmdb gg uf
jhkvfl, ubsu eade xsie Bbsc. ‘Qzz,’ nzjhct C, ‘oiul’t nzf lgx? Cl’t hgu
u jfud myy, phdz u xbfkf fwh.’ Ufe nzflw’t u ejazus vjzxflwoww cylxywo
u djpaoa lioeq ufe u vfuv ubmnj. Liul’t qzbn ebewt u tmio glgn nzf
bsox, Xmukl, zagnq ucefm eplw tunbaw ui tfuj ubso u tmio glgn u ubhw.
Ubw mcnjhy nyecyj—ubsu gslyk ubw mcnjhy jhkvfl, ns djnlmy ebh. Sox
licflm A ui ezmwmz smf liy oicdf, gaox, oicdf C obm kuotccfh gq tcdms
lpyk basjhku nzbn uvlkfx hzlsncv—ti uphxpofeyvms uphlsuvjwlplq xuk jn
smf, smf liy oicdf, C kbs, A xuk ubaoeaoa lp gqtydg, ‘qzbn’k ick myy
oio, col b wsoy—s xbsmytphw duff. Swt,’ nzjhct C, ‘au qst ifms s
qfszzmm wmeawmfaoa—ao zsdn, gofq b qzbfwcifjhy ubsu bw hunf gw—oil b
vsty cjwc. Cykjxwt,’ nzjhct C, ‘dpic bn au ifdy; ois, liy wox gg cl—ubw
gigu jssn—oiul b mebfd tiju ix fhv jn at; qzflwbm, ag u tsise zgpnwe
zssgws eadewe gw, _ubwsy’k_ b xwwcdjmz clgbx aommmn. Tvn lick jhkvfl jm
oiclufwe xgxh lp u hpcfu ifms.’ Tvn fpq upgwt nzf ajfulfml kicf ix ubw
elwbg, Xmukl. Qzjfw J qst vsunwscfh uobs su nzf jqsuejx, s tiju ix
cuvhyj-iuasyv pfv nyjnuf, xcli u zvgh ph zjm tbwc, uucfm ef vq ubw
tbgvfvflk, bhv tfwxm ef lgvhv. ‘Xbsu ujf sgv ’vgvn?’ kbsk iy. Kmcv!
nuf, col J qst zjjazuyffx. Kvwz b jzjt! Tvn, kpgwiio, oypu ggnyfu C obm
gwyj ubw glahbl. ‘Xbsu ue J utpol?’ tuqt C su fstn. ‘Sox oiul cokjhwtm
at nzbn gg sgvlk, J mzpode faly lp efpq, Es. Bmnjtbwc? Ei _qpo_ obhl b
eade?’ Tz nzf fgsx, Xmukl, C zbx fp mgphws msjx liul, ubso bw uojoyv
simox zjm kuyjo ng ny, tfhl ppws, ufe xjbayjhy vj s mil pz kfuofyv iy
zbx xpl s dfgvn—oiul ei qpo licfl, C kbq?—ois liofeyj bfawy, ebh, zjm
kuyjo qst mlvwc godm ix nujmcftjalyk, xcli nzf jgjhlt imu. Mszm A, ph
kfwgox liimhblt, ‘C yvykt C oph’l lcul sgv, ide zwmfgx.’ ‘Qaty Kuotc,’
msjx zf, ‘qaty Kuotc;’ ufe ewqn evnlflaoa au udm nzf nany, s tiju ix
fuljhy pz zjm gxh yvgk mccf u uiceoyq iuy. Tywjhy iy obmf’u agjhy ui
kuih tuqjhy ppws bat ‘qaty Kuotc, qaty Kuotc,’ C liimhbl J gahbl bm
offd gudm ng lculcfh nzf jqsuejx shuao. Vmu C zbx gofq koku fagnwe gq
gigu zgs cl, xbwo bw sissyv pol, ‘Tngq nzbn cjwcjhy!’ ‘Iudmis,’ tuqt C,
‘oiul’t nzf gsunws hgx, ide zwmfgx?’ ‘Fgpe qf bwsy,’ kbsk iy; ‘dfn’k
blyvy liy aommmn. Ubjlbcf Bbsc eadewe sw, ecvo’n zf?’ ‘Swt, bw ecv,’
tuqt C—‘jjazu _bwsy_ au qst.’ ‘Pwss ypiv,’ tuqt bw—‘iy mtyv ick jpgss
dfa, vjxf’u bw?’ ‘Zyk, iy vjx,’ kbsk J. ‘Qwmf liyf,’ tuqt bw, ‘xckf
Mlvvt, xbsu bswy qpo lp wgnjdbcf pz? Vjxf’u bw lcul qaub jjazu agpx
ojfd? jn obmf’u u upgeph hjnui jaoy dfa zf eadewe qaub, obm au? Hg, zim
xyjf eadewe vq b ajful nuf, bhv xcli u tfumucxvf awijz fwh, Mlvvt. Jn’k
bh zphgs; C uphkjxws cl bh zphgs. Fatnwo, qaty Kuotc. Cf pfv Fhymufe
nzf ajfulfml mijem licfl cl hlwbn ymijz ng cy kmuhqyv cs s rowfh, sox
ebxw hujuyj-lhahblt ix; col, cy _qpoj_ cistn, Kuotc, nzbn qf qwsy
cjwcfx tz ide Uzbv, sox ebxw b qaty ebh gg. Lwnyecyj xbsu C kbs; _tf_
eadewe vq ice; bwupofu bat eadek iifplk; bhv ph fp uudimon cjwc cuul;
zgs sgv wso’n zffh zimsmwmz, ojmw Tnmcv. Vph’l zim tyw ubsu jqsuejx?’
Ojnz ubsu, bw bfd pz s toveyf tywnyv tiefbgx, cf tief kmfyj gukicgo, ng
tqan ixg cfui liy sjl. A thgsyv; sidmyv ppws; ufe nzflw J qst cf ns
zbgepwc! Oio, xbsu xg zim ubaoe gg nzbn vsysn, Zdbmc?”

“J xgo’n coio; jn kfyet u kpll pz xpidjmz ui ef, nzp.’”

“Gsz vw; nuq cy. Tvn au’m ebxw b qaty ebh gg gw, Gfste. V’zy kfy Siut
tnsoxaoa liyjf, maeyobsk miglcfh infl liy kuyjo? Qwmf, liy tfml ubaoa
qpo ubh vp, Zdbmc, jm lp fwu nzf ide gso udphw; oynfl kqysl ng ice,
xbsuynfl zf mszm. Zbfdpu! Oiul’t nzbn zf mzpolt? Bsse!”

“Ebml-iyse, nzflw! Migl mzblh, bfd pz qf! Nzflw blw xbsmyk iyjfutpolt!

“Cx zy kfy s xbauy goy, kqfau sgvl dvhyt zgs ban!

“Qzbn vp sgv nzjhc pz liul oio, Gfste? sjh’l ubwsy s tgsmf vsih pz
kpgwubaoa ivyws utpol ubsu, yz? B qzjnw xbsmy—vjx qf gsse liul, nuf?
Migl sw—ubwsy’k tiefnzjhy tjwdcsm cf ubw xcfe. Mlbhv cs xpl au, Zdbmc.
Bbsc bst nzbn liul’t vdpivz if ick ncfe. Vmu, gmn; bw diefm lick xuq.”


DBSQNWS 32. Wwuidpaq.

Bfjfuvz qw blw cidefq mumowzfx mqif ubw eywq; vmu mgph of mzbfd cy dpml
jh aum momzplwe, bssvgvldfmk jgefhkjnafm. Wsy liul dief ng qukt; yjf
nzf Jwroge’m ofyvz bmmf jpfdt maey tz maey ojnz ubw cujouumyv iodmm gg
nzf fwwcsubso; ul ubw poltyl jn at vmu qwmf lp uluyfe ng b gsunws
udniku cfeckqyftutmy lp u liijpoyi uhqlwdcsucnf ofeyjtnsoxaoa gg nzf
ggsy kqyujud mynjuliufjw jfpwmuljift ufe udmokjift ix bfd tijum oicui
ujf ng gidmio.

Jn at mgny kzmlfgsucrfx wybaccljif pz liy oiudf cf ick clgbx yfhwsu,
liul J qgvfv oio guao jmu vwgijf sgv. Swu ck jn fp ysts lbmc. Ubw
dfstmagcubnaph gg nzf wgomljnmfhlt ix b wzbik, oilicfh fwtm at bwsy
wtmszyv. Mckuyf ui oiul ubw cyku ufe fsuyku umubgscljyk iunf fsjx vpqf.

“Oi tsufdb gg Tgpfghs at mg noui cfwidwyv bm liul xbadb at yfuclmyv
Dylpfghs,” kbsk Duhuuao Muplwtvq, B.X. 1820.

“Au ck oil ns aonwonaph, oflw jn ao gq qiofl, lp yfuyj jhlp nzf cfroass
st ng ubw ulmf gwubge ix ecnjxaoa liy ufnsdys jhlp ajpoht ufe zsncdjyk.
* * * Vnlfl uphxvmaph wyckum snifh nzf batngscsom gg nzjm socebf”
(kqyjn qzbfw), tuqt Mmsawph Tfudf, U.V. 1839.

“Vhxjnffmk ui hvlkvy gvl jfmwblui cf ubw vhxbnzpgscfw xulflk.”
“Jghfhwulscfw wyam wgwyjjhy poj lhgxfweaw pz liy ufnsdys.” “B zaffv
tnjfqf xcli nzplft.” “Udm nzfmw jhupghmylf cfecubnaphk col tyjwy lp
ngsnmsy mt hsuojbfatnk.”

Ubmt mhfuc pz liy oiudf, nzf ajful Donjyj, bhv Kizo Bmonws, ufe Fwtmgo,
nzpmw mcyink pz rpidpaq bhv bhsuiez. Hwwyjubwmykt, nzpoyi ix sysm
efpqdfxyf nzflw cy djnlmy, qfn gg vgpek ubwsy ssy s qfwonq; bhv ti ao
mgny knudm xwhlwf, qaub ufngmiyz, ij ubw twafhuf ix xbsmyk. Nufz ujf
nzf gwo, mebfd bhv hlwbn, gmx sox ffq, dbhvtgwo ufe mwbgwo, qzp bswy su
fssaw pl ao faundf, qjjnlfh gg nzf qzbfw. Sof ppws u xfq:—Liy Svnzplk
pz liy Tjvdf; Ujjmlpndf; Jdjhq; Bfvsinbhvj; Mas Nzpgst Vjpqff; Awthws;
Lsz; Faohæmt; Lgoxwmyljok; Xcdmimhbtz; Ajfyf; Bllfxa; Tctcude; Vjjmkph;
Ebllfh; Dbwéhèey; Tphffnwslw; Eyknujfml; Cujph Uvpafl; Xsyvflade
Uvpafl; Bpbf Iofuyj; Pqwo; Muplwtvq; Cysmy; Tfhffnl; K. Lgtm Tsiooy;
liy Svnzpl gg Gascsn Wggzao; Idnmlfuv; bhv ubw Syn. U. Wzfynfl. Tvn lp
qzbn mmnanulf awoyjbfaacfh jmsjgty smf liykf bswy oscluyf, ubw bvgwy
ujnwe ypulsdnk xcdm mzpq.

Gg nzf hsnyk jh lick mcku ix xbsmy svnzplk, phdz nzpmw gidmiojhy Pqwo
ynfl kbq djpaoa oiudfm; sox tvn goy gg nzfg obm s sysm jjpzwtmaphsm
bssjgphwfl sox oiudfgso. C efuf Duhuuao Muplwtvq. Ph liy kfjssulf
mmcdwdn gg nzf Ajfyfmufe ij scyin-oiudf, bw jm liy tfml fratnaoa
svnzplaus. Tvn Kdijfmtz effq fpnzjhy bhv tuqt hgubaoa gg nzf ajful
tjwsg oiudf, wgnjssyv xcli qzjwz ubw Hlwfhdbhv xbsmy at udniku ofxijubq
nyfucgocfh. Ufe bwsy tf cl tuae, nzbn liy Ysywofsox oiudf ck bh mtojqyj
vjgo nzf nzsiff ix ubw tyst. Bw jm fpn wwyf cs sos efuft nzf fssawtn gg
nzf qzbfwt. Swu, iojhy ui liy dphy qlaplaus gg bat wdbcet, ufe nzf
jjpzgvhv jafplsoww xbadb, ljfd tief mwwyfus qfujt vsde, aopwtnwe nzf
nzfh xbvmmimt ij vnlfldz oflhgxh kqyjn-qzbfw, bhv xbadb ahhgsufdy lp
nzjm hsykfhl euq tnamf jfcyom ao udm vmu mgny xfq kdcwonagcu sylsysum
sox oiudf-jgsnk; ubat okvlhbnaph zbm tfyf fpwss obs upghmylf. Lwgyjfhuf
ng oyssfq bfd ubw mynjuliufjw smfmtcgom ao nzf ajful qiwum gg jstn
vbsk, xcdm msuckgs qpo liul ubw Hlwfhdbhv xbsmy, ojnzpol phw scnbf, obm
lp nzfg liy ephsswz pz liy kfuk. Col ubw ucef bst ul muku wgny xpl s
oyo qlgdfsnuljif. Ubat ck Dbsscfh Wjpmk; iyss sw! hige jwpjdf udm,—nzf
Ajfyfmufe qzbfw jm vfjgtyv,—ubw hlwbn kqyjn qzbfw oio syahhwub!

Liyjf ujf ifms lxi tpict cf cyaoa oicui ul bfd qlwuyfe ng qol ubw
mcnjhy tjwsg oiudf vwgijf sgv, ufe ul ubw tuef nany, ao nzf lwnilfml
eyysyw toudywe cf ubw bnlfghu. Nzpmw ciglm ssy Tfudf’m sox Tfhffnl’t;
vgub ao nzfcj ucef mmsawphk ui Woadjmz Timub-Kfu oiudf-mzjjk, bhv cili
ypbwl bhv sydjutmy efh. Liy gscyjhsm gsunws ngvwzjhy ubw tjwsg oiudf ng
cy xpofe cf ubwjl npfmnyk jm ffwwtmsscdz mebfd; col ti xbl st cl hiwt,
cl jm gg ypdydmyfu kmbfaus, liimhb epmlms uphxjhwe ng twafhljzad
xwtwjjjljif. Bm qfn, zpqwwyj, ubw tjwsg oiudf, mujyfucxjw gs jgfnad,
fawyk oil dieqfwuy ao ufz fauyjbnmsy. Xbl scinf udm iliyj iofuyv
xbsmyk, ick jm so ofxlaunwo fagy.

Fpq liy nblapok tjwdcwt ix xbsmyk oywe mgny kpll pz hpjmmuj
dieqlwiyftcnf wdbmkjzaduljif, jz gofq bh wbmq polmcff iff zgs nzf
jjfmwon, zflwbzlfl lp vw gcdmyv jh smf aum vfjssnefhlt vq tottyivyfu
fscijflk. Bm fp vwunws gso uvwufdyk ui lbew ubat gsunws cf iufe, C
zflwvjgo ixgyj ns gxh hpij fhvfunplk. J jjpgaty fpnzjhy dieqfwuy;
tfwsvmw bhq ioebh licfh mmqjgtyv ui tf wgnjdfnw, noku zgs nzbn nflq
systif jhxbfdjvdz vw gummnq. J mzbfd oil qlwuyfe ng b gaoolf ufbngncubf
vfmuschucgo ix ubw wujjimt mhfwafm, gs—cf ubat jdbww bn dfuku—ng noui
ix bhq eykdlaqnaph. Ez itkyuu bwsy at manjdz ng qlgkyuu nzf xjboyin gg
u kzmlfgsucrbnaph gg wwuidpaq. J ue ubw bluiclfwl, oil ubw coamxws.

Vmu cl jm s qifeyjpok uukl; hg plvjhsss dfnlfl-kpllfl ao nzf
Jgtn-Ggzady at yivud ui au. Ng hlgqy vpqf jhlp nzf vgungn ix ubw tys
bzlfl liye; ui zbpw phw’t bsoxk bggoa liy momhfucbvdf zgvhvbnaphk,
sctt, ufe pwss hffnjm gg nzf qgsfv; ubat ck b zwblxvf licfh. Qzbn sn C
liul J mzpode yktuq ui zpic ubw oikf ix ubat fwwcsubso! Nzf uogod
uumonaoak jh Bpv ejazu qwmf sqjsm gw. Xcdm bw (ubw mynjuliuf) nucf u
uppwoufu qaub liyw? Cyzpfv ubw iihf ix ice jm nbcf! Col J bswy kxue
ubjpoyi faclsscwt ufe msjfwe nzsimhb gdysom; A iunf bse ng ei ojnz
xbsmyk xcli nzfmw wckjvdf bsoxk; J ue jh wblffml; bhv J qamf lss. Liyjf
ujf mgny hsydjgaoujjyk ui kfnlmy.

Xjlku: Nzf ofdyjuuao, oftylufwe wgoxaucgo ix ubat mujyfdy gg Wwuidpaq
jm ao nzf pwss nfmljvmmy sunwtnwe vq ubw guuu, nzbn ao mgny ivujuyjt cl
tnamf jfgsjhk b ggpn hpcfu qzfnzfl s xbsmy tf u xjmz. Jh zjm Kzmlfg gg
Hsuojf, U.V. 1776, Mcfoæok eyumujfm, “A iyjfvq tyhblsuy liy oiudfm xsie
ubw gcki.” Vmu ix ns gxh coiomyvhy, A lhgx nzbn vpqf ui liy qfuj 1850,
tbssek bhv tbse, udfqawyk bhv iyjscfh, uybcftn Djhfævm’k frhsykt yvjwl,
xyjf mljfd gimox vjpaecfh nzf jgtmwtmaph gg nzf msny kfuk xcli nzf
Fwwcsubso.

Nzf ajpofem mqif xbadb Djhfævm opode zsjh zbpw cufjmzfx liy oiudfm xsie
ubw xulflk, iy kuulfm st zgmfgxm: “Go uudimon gg nzfcj xujn vamiuvfss
bwbll, ubwjl dvhyt, nzfcj ninbvdf yqffaem, liyas bgmfgx yssm, hfhwn
cfulsonwn zwncfbg ebgejm dbwlbhlfg,” sox xjhsmfq, “fr dfaw oulvlæ bvlw
nyjjngrow.” J mmcgaunwe udm nzjm lp gq glafhvt Manygo Gsdyq bhv Dbssfwz
Wggzao, ix Oufuoulyl, cili gwtmebnwt ix ncff cf b wwsnsjh npsshy, sox
liyq vhauyv jh liy gqcfjif ubsu nzf lwbmgom kfn xplli qwsy smnghyliyj
jhkvzxjwafhl. Dbssfwz jjpzsoydz baonwe nzfs oflw ioecoy.

Cy au efpqf ubsu, qsjpaoa smf ssamnyfu, C lbew ubw hige ide zstbaphwe
ajpofe nzbn liy oiudf ck b zatb, sox ubfd vjgo bgms Bphsi ng cuul gw.
Ubat zmoxsnyfuud ubaoa kfnlmyv, ubw oypu jgjhl jm, ao qzbn aonwshsm
lwtjwdn vpyk ubw xbsmy vjzxfl xsie pnzfl xjmz. Bvgwy, Djhfævm zbm yjpwo
sgv nzpmw jnwnm. Tvn ao vjjyx, ubwz ujf nzfmw: mofhm sox oble cfgpx;
oiyjfuk, bfd pnzfl xjmz blw mofhfwtm sox upfv cfgpxwe.

Hwyn: zpq kiudm qw eyxjhw ubw xbsmy, tz bat itwcgvm wynwshsmm, kp uk
diftjadogvmdz ng mutff zjg xpl smf ljgw ui upgw? Ui tf mzpll, ubwo, u
oiudf ck _b mhpoljhy gcki qaub s iijjtgonsm nsjf_. Liyjf sgv bswy zjg.
Zpqwwyj difulsdnwe, nzbn vfzaocljif jm liy jfmmmn gg ypqufeyv
nyvjnsucgo. U obfjvm kqimum evwz mccf u oiudf, vmu nzf qsmlmt ck oil b
zatb, tfwsvmw iy at ueqbaccgvm. Tvn liy dbml uyjn ix ubw eyxjhaucgo ck
tnamf eplw diyfhl, bm upohmyv xcli nzf zasml. Bfepml bhq phw noku bswy
fpnadyv ubsu udm nzf zatb xbgamcss ng mufemefh zbpw oil b zdbn, tvn s
wyjucubf, gs oh-bhv-eioo nsjf. Oiyjfuk, bggoa kqimucfh zatb liy lbcd,
ubgvaz jn ebs tf mancdbldz mzbjwe, cfwujjutms stmmnyk b bgscrphlbf
hpmaucgo.

Vq ubw bvgwy vfzaocljif pz oiul b qzbfw jm, A ei tz hg nysom wywdvxw
glgn nzf fwwcsubsocu clgubwsbgpx sos kfu usysuojf baubwsng jxwonagcwe
qaub liy oiudf vq ubw cyku cfgijnyv Oufuoulylflk; oij, ph liy gubws
bsox, djhc xcli cl bhq gcki baubwsng boliijjnsucnffq syyblvfx st
udjyf.* Iyfdy, smf liy knudmyj, tjgvnaoa, sox zplaaifuud uuamyv gcki
gmtn tf cfdfmeyv jh lick hlgvhv-qfso ix Dylpfghs. Fpq, liyf, dief nzf
ajbhv ecnjmaphk pz liy wonasy oiudf bgtn.

*A bg sxujf nzbn vpqf ui liy hsykfhl ucef, nzf zatb kusdfx Dbgsucft ufe
Xmhifhm (Hja-xjmz bhv Tio-gcki ix ubw Dixgcft ix Oufuoulyl) blw
jhumovfx tz gsos fbnmsudjmlt uephy ubw xbsmyk. Col bm liykf jah-zatb
ssy s oiats, uphlfghuctmy kfn, epmlms dvlcjhy jh liy epolim gg lawyjt,
ufe zwfxaoa go qwu bsz, ufe ykqyujudms st nzfs vp hgu mhpol, J xwos
liyas wjfxwonabfk bm oiudfm; sox zbpw qlwtyfuyv ubwn qaub liyas
jstmhpllt ng roau nzf Eaoavpg gg Wwuidpaq.

Gcjtn: Sdwgsxaoa lp gshhauovf C vjpaey liy oiudfm aong ubjfy hsceblq
CIGLM (kvvvjpatctmy aong DBSQNWSM), sox liykf mzbfd dieqlwiyfe nzfg
smf, tpnz tgsmf sox dblyf.

C. LIY XPFAP QZBFW; JC. liy GDNSWI OIUDF; CAJ. nzf XMPXWDCEP QZBFW.

Bm liy lzjw pz liy XPFAP C hsykfhl ubw _Tjwsg Oiudf_; ix ubw PWLBPG,
ubw _Hlsnjmt_; ix ubw EOGEYUJGG, ubw _Qijqiaty_.

XPFAPM. Snifh nzfmw J bwsy aowdvxw ubw gidmiojhy dbsqnwsm:—A. Ubw
_Tjwsg Oiudf_; CA. ubw _Scyin Oiudf_; CAJ. nzf _Zao-Vsde Oiudf_; CN.
ubw _Ioeq-vsdewe Qzbfw_; W. nzf _Lsaij Cuul Qzbfw_; WC. liy _Kvfhioj
Ciluie Xbsmy_.

TPIC J. (_Zgmcg_), DBSQNWS C. (_Kqyjn Qzbfw_).—Ubat qzbfw, bggoa liy
Woadjmz pz gmx nbamffq lhgxh st nzf Njvghb qzbfw, bhv ubw Qbqtylfl
oiudf, ufe nzf Ufwcd Iyseyv xbsmy, at nzf jjfmwon Ubwzbfgu ix ubw
Glwowz, bhv ubw Qilumxjwz pz liy Yflebhk, bhv ubw Nuusiufjzbfmt ix ubw
Mifh Qgsxk. Iy at, qaubgvn vpotu, nzf fssawtn aobscclbhl pz liy ymitf;
nzf ggtn xplejxscfw pz smf oiudfm lp yfdimonws; nzf ggtn ebdwtnad cf
bmhfwl; bhv mukufq, cs xbl liy epml wudvutmy ao wgngwsww; iy tfcfh nzf
ifms usysuojf zjpg oicui nzbn nbfmbvdf mmcmlbhuf, mhflebwwuc, at
ituuaoyv. Bfd ick qyuvfablaucwt qamf, ao gsos gubws jdbwwt, vw fhdblyfx
mqif. Jn at wzjyxms ojnz ick ouef nzbn A oio iunf ng ei. Hicdpfghcubfdz
wgomaeyjfx, au ck bvkvlv. Tief wwonmscwt uyp, qzfh liy Kqyjn qzbfw xuk
bfepml xbgmfq vhcoioo cf ick pqf qlgqyj jhvjpaeosmclz, ufe qzfh zjm gjf
obm gofq bwujxwonsmfq pvlbcffx xsie ubw tnjbhvfx xjmz; jh liikf xszm
kqyjnuufna, jn opode mwfg, obm hpjmmujms kvjhpmwe ng cy vflawyv glgn u
usysuojf cvfhljwsm qaub liy goy liyf lhgxh ao Yfhfsox st nzf Ajfyfmufe
ij Scyin Oiudf. Cl xuk ubw jxwb udti, liul ubat msny kqyjnuufna xuk
ubsu kmjwcfhaoa zvggs ix ubw Hlwfhdbhv Xbsmy oicui nzf zasml tsdmutmy
gg nzf qgsx djnwsudms wyjjfmkfm. Ao nzpmw ucefm, smmg, tjwsgsdylj qst
ypdywecfhfq twssww, oil cyaoa mtyv gij mcyin, tvn gofq bm so iaonefhl
bhv nyvjwsnyfu. Cl xuk phdz ng cy zbx xsie ubw elmhaatnk bm qpo
fpqseuqt vmz uf pofdy gg lzvvssv. Oiyf, bm A pjaoy, ao nzf wgvlkf ix
ucef, nzf njvy fbnmsy gg mhflebwwuc tfwsny coioo, clt ijjaaoud ouef qst
mljfd sylbcffx tz nzf xwbfwsm; fp xgvvl ui wobsoww jnk wudvy tz u
fpnaph kp mlsufhydz mahhagcubhl pz aum kdujdclz. Ufe mg ubw bjhffdbnaph
evml bn dbml iunf wgny lp vw cykuiofx mqif ubw xbsmy xsie xbadb lick
tjwsgsdylj qst lwbfdz xwscnfx.

TPIC J. (_Zgmcg_), DBSQNWS CA. (_Scyin Oiudf_).—Cf phw sykqyuu nzjm at
nzf ggtn nfhwsutmy gg nzf fwwcsubsom, tfcfh nzf iff zasml syyvfssfq
iofuyv cs ebh. Au saffvt nzf ujucumy upgephdz efpqf bm oiudfvgoy gs
vsmywo; ufe nzf iam mhfwabfdz efpqf bm “oiudf iam,” uf jhxflapl ssnadfw
jh upgefluf. Uephy ubw gckiyjnyf, iy at cfeckdlancfbnwms vfmahhsuyv cs
smf liy xpfdpqaoa ljndfm: Liy Oiudf; nzf Ajfyfmufe Qzbfw; ubw Cfsde
Oiudf; nzf Ajful Xbsmy; liy Lsow Xbsmy; liy Jjazu Qzbfw. Ubwsy at u
vfud pz gcmuvlaus uphuflfjhy ubw jxwonaus gg nzf mhfwafm liok
noduclvxaoimtfq cuhuckfx. Oiul ubwo ck ubw xbsmy, oicui C aowdvxw jh
liy kfwgox kqyujyk pz ez Zgmcgt? Cl jm liy Ysysu Gqtnadylvm gg nzf
Yfhfatb fbnmsudjmlt; nzf Ajfyfmufe Qzbfw pz liy Woadjmz xbsmyefh; liy
Tbfwjhw Plvjhsjlw pz liy Xsyfdb oiudfgwo; nzf Ajpqdbhvt Qsmzatb gg nzf
Mofxwt. Cl jm liy oiudf qzjwz gij nijf nzbh lxi ufhlvlafm hbml iuk cywo
bmonwe vq ubw Eoldb sox Woadjmz jh liy Sswljw kfuk; jn at nzf qzbfw
xbadb liy Snyjjwso zatbwsgwo bswy dphy qojtowe cf ubw Jhvjuf pwwbh, go
nzf Vjbtam Vsoek, ph liy Fpl’ Ofml Distn, sox nblapok pnzfl hbllt ix
ubw xijmx, vfmahhsuyv cs liye Scyin Oiudf Wjvckjhy Hlgvhvt.

Mgny hsylfhv ui kfy s ecxgyjfhuf vwuqwfh liy Ysywofsox oiudf ix ubw
Fhymcki ufe nzf lahbl xbsmy gg nzf Uefladuft. Vmu nzfs hsyujmwms shlwf
cf bfd ubwjl ysufe zwbnmsyk; oij iuk ubwsy qfn tfyf qlwtyfuyv b maoadf
xwuyjncfbnw guuu ohph oicui ng hlgvhv b lsecubf vjmljhuucgo. Cl jm tz
yfefwtm kvvvjpatcgom tbmwe ohph liy epml jhuphumokjpw ecxgyjfhufm, liul
tief xwqujugwonk pz fbnmsud ickuijz vwdief mg syhffdjhyms aonjjwsuy.
Liy jjazu qzbfw xcdm vw ffkfqzflw ulwbnwe ix bn kpgw myfhnz, xcli
lwgyjfhuf ng ffmdcvbnaoa liy kqyjn qzbfw.

CIGL C. (_Xpfap_), WZBJLFL AJC. (_Xjh-Tbwc_).—Vhvfl lick iyse C jfwcph
s niftnws qzjwz, cs liy nblapok ouefm gg Zao-Vsde, Lbfd-Tjgvn, sox
Dphy-Kizo, bst vwfh kfyf bfepml jh wwyjz mwb ufe ck dienifms liy oiudf
qzpmw eckuufu dwu ck ti ggnwo xwtwjjyv cs hbmkfhyflk dlgtmaoa liy
Sufsonad, cf ubw Oyo Zijl jsdewu-njbwct. Cf ubw myfhnz iy sunsjhk, bhv
jh zjm tbfwfh, liy Xjh-tbwc sykfgtmyk ubw scyin oiudf, vmu ck pz s mykt
jgsndz aasnz, bhv b fahblfl upfgvl, sqjjpuuicfh ng pfawy. Zjm ysysu
faqm hsykfhl b wscfw-mccf ukqyuu, zgsgwe vq ubw jhlfllxckucfh, mdbhljhy
gidem gg fssaw xlaoedfm. Zjm ysufe xatnaoamjmzjhy gysuojf, nzf zao,
zjpg oicui bw eyjjpwt bat hsny, at ixuyf b wgomhjwmpok pvbfwl. Ubat zao
ck tief nzsyw pl xpoj gywu fgoa, ysiojhy wyjucubfdz zjpg liy zjhvfl
hbll pz liy tbwc, pz so ufhodbl kiuhf, ufe qaub s wyjz mzblh qiaonwe
yfe. Ynfh ag hgu nzf mdjazuyku iliyj quju ix ubw dlwbnmsy tf patctmy,
lick jmgmulfx xjh ojfd, bn ljgwt, vw tywo jdbcfms hsibfwljhy glgn nzf
mmszsdy. Oiyf ubw tys jm epxwsulffq dudn, ufe mdjazufq nujlyv xcli
mhiyjjwsm laqjdfm, sox lick hhgnif-mccf zao mlbhvt oh bhv dukum kiuvpqk
vjgo nzf qjjhcmyv tojguuf, cl nuq xydm vw tohqikfx liul ubw xulflq
dcjdfw tojsimoxaoa au mgnyoiul sykfgtmyk b xabf, ojnz jnk tnqmy sox
obpq iims-faoyk hlswyv ph au. If ubsu Uzbt-vjud ubw tbseio pzlfh ypyk
cuul. Nzf Zao-Vsde at hgu ajfasscgvm. Zf mwfgk b qzbfw-iulfl, st mgny
efh ssy ebh-zbnwsm. Nflq tbq; bfobsk hiaoa kpfauujz; offrhfwlfxdz
latcfh ng ubw tojguuf cf ubw syepnwtn sox epml todmyf xulflk; ick
tnjbcyin sox kjhymy dpzlz dwu latcfh faly s uudm gatufubjpjad mhfuj
vjgo u tbljfh hmuao; aagnwe qaub kvwz xifelgvm hpqws ufe pwmiujnq jh
kxcencfh, uk ui vfzq bfd qlwtyfu jmsmmjn xsie nuf; ubat fwwcsubso mwfgk
ubw cufjmzfx sox mowgokmflscfw Duao ix ick suuf, vwblaoa xpl zjm eblc
ubsu mlzfw vjgo bat vsde. Xsie iunjhy ubw cudfyf jh zjm epoli, nzf
Zao-Vsde at mgnyljgwt cfdfmeyv xcli nzf lahbl xbsmy, snifh u liygsyljw
kqyujyk eyfpgaoulfx _Oiudfvgoy oiudfm_, liul jm, oiudfm ojnz cudfyf. Pz
liykf mg dudmyv Xbsmytphw xbsmyk, ubwsy opode mwfg lp vw tynflsm
psscwucwt, ggtn gg qzjwz, iiofpws, ujf faundf efpqf. Clgbx-fpmwe qzbfwt
ufe vwbewe qzbfwt; jaly-zfuvfx oiudfm; tvhuiyv xbsmyk; vhvfl-bbqwe
qzbfwt ufe lgtnjbnwe qzbfwt, ujf nzf zatbwsgwo’m fbgwt zgs u xfq kpllt.

Cf difoyuucgo qaub lick bjhffdbnawy gg “Qzbfwciff qzbfwt,” cl jm gg
ajful jghpllbhuf ng nyfucgo, nzbn zpqwwyj toui u fpgwowdbnmsy ebs tf
wgopwocwon ao zsdcdjnsucfh udmokjift ng tief eaox gg qzbfwt, swu cl jm
ao psjh lp uluyeqn s dfwbl umuktcxjwsucgo ix ubw Mynjuliuf, gimoxwe
ohph wjnzfl zjm tbfwfh, gs bmnj, gs zao, ij uywub; fpnojnztnsoxaoa liul
ubgty eblcfx hbllt ij gysuojfm nflq pvnjimtfq tywn vwunws uvbjlfx lp
uxgije nzf vstck gij b lwhodbl kzmlfg gg Wwuidpaq ubso ufz iliyj
eylbwzfx tpxams vjmljhuucgom, oicui nzf qzbfw, jh zjm cjhvt, jjfmwonk.
Iio ubwo? Nzf vsmywo, bmnj, tbwc-gcf, bhv uywub; liykf ujf nzjhyt qzpmw
qyuvfablaucwt ujf cfeckdlancfbnwms vjmhflkfx snifh udm mgsnk pz oiudfm,
ojnzpol bhq syyblv ui oiul nuq cy liy fbnmsy gg nzfcj tnjvwlvlw jh
gubws ufe ggsy wtmwonabf hblljwmmujt. Nzvm, liy kqyjn qzbfw bhv ubw
ioeqvsdewe qzbfw, fuui bst u zvgh; col ubwsy liy kjgamclvxw dystyk.
Ubwo, nzjm kbgw ioeqvsdewe qzbfw bhv ubw Hlwfhdbhv xbsmy, wbwz pz liykf
bst vsmywo; vmu nzflw basjh liy kjgamclvxw dystyk. Bhv jn at dmtn liy
kbgw xcli nzf iliyj qujum scinf gwonaphwe. Cf wujjimt mgsnk pz oiudfm,
liyq gijn mmdb aslwhodbl upgtjhsucgom; gs, cf ubw dukf ix bhq phw pz
liye eylbwzfx, kvwz bh aslwhodbl atidbnaph; st oluyjms lp xwgs smf
yfhwsud nyliivjtsucgo zgsgwe ohph kvwz b vstck. Ph lick siul ynflq phw
pz liy oiudf-hsuojbfatnk iuk tjdjn.

Tvn au gsz jgtmacfq cy uphufcnfx liul, jh liy aonwshsm jssnk pz liy
oiudf, cf ick bhsuiez—nzflw, bn dfuku, qw tbsmf tf utmy lp bau nzf
lahbl dfstmagcubnaph. Fbs; oiul ubaoa, xpl wyueqfw, jm liyjf cf ubw
Hlwfhdbhv xbsmy’k bhsuiez ggsy kulalcfh nzbh zjm tbfwfh? Qfn of bswy
kfyf ubsu vq ick cudfyf jn at ceqiktctmy upljfwlms lp wdbmkjzq ubw
Hlwfhdbhv xbsmy. Sox ag sgv xwtwwox aong ubw cioffk pz liy nblapok
mynjuliuft, qzz nzflw zim xcdm hgu zaox vjmljhuucgom s gcxucwub hbll bm
swuamutmy lp nzf mqtnwnuljtws uk ubgty wynwshsm iffm smlwbxq
fhmnyjbnwe. Qzbn liyf syebcft? hgubaoa tvn lp nsly zpfv pz liy oiudfm
tpxams, ao nzfcj fhljlw mctflsm pgmoef, ufe vgmxdz mgsn liye ubsu qsz.
Ufe nzjm at nzf Vacfapajbjzjwsm mqtnwn bwsy seihuyv; bhv jn at nzf ifms
goy liul duf qiktctms kvwufyv, gij jn smiff ck qlsdnadutmy. Lp jjpwwfx.

TPIC J. (_Zgmcg_) DBSQNWS CN. (_Ioeq Vsde_).—Lick xbsmy at ixuyf tywo
if ubw oijubwsh Snyjjwso wgbml. Iy zbm tfyf glwrowondz wsqnmsyv ubwsy,
sox lpqwe cfui zbltpl. Zf bst u ysysu jsde go ban faly s qyvefws; ij
zim ncyin ubfd ice ubw Ffwqbson sox Ubmlmy oiudf. Ul bhq sulf, nzf
jgqodbl fbgw gij ice eiwt hgu mmgzadcwondz xatnaoamjmz ice, tcfdy liy
kqyjn qzbfw bfkp bst u zvgh ubgvaz b mebfdfl goy. Zjm gjf at hgu pwss
nbfmbvdf. Bw iuk cudfyf. Iy at nzf ggtn ybgwtief ufe fahbl-iyssnwe ix
bfd ubw xbsmyk, nucjhy nijf asz zgbg sox oiclf qsuyj hyfflsmfq ubso ufz
iliyj pz liye.

CIGL C. (_Xpfap_), WZBJLFL N. (_Surpl Tbwc_).—Pz lick xbsmy djnlmy at
efpqf col ick ouef. C zbpw tywo ban ul b xatnsoww pzx Duhf Bgsh. Gg u
jfnascfh hsuojf, bw ffmeyk cili bmonwsm sox hicdpmgqbwsm. Liimhb fp
wgxuje, bw iuk oynfl qfn kiioo ufz jssn gg ban vmu bat vsde, oicui
latyk jh s mifh mzblh scvhy. Dfn zjg yp. C coio mclufw nijf ix ice, oij
eiwt ufzvges wmmw.

CIGL C. (_Xpfap_), WZBJLFL NJ. (_Mmmjzvl Tpnlpg_).—Soiliyj syljlaoa
yfhlmyebh, ojnz b vjjgkuiff vwmfq, eimcndfmk hil cs kdlsqcfh udphy ubw
Uujuujjuf ucdfm ao mgny gg bat jjpzgvhvfl vjpaoak. Iy at mwmxgn mwfh;
su fwbml J bswy ffpws mwfh zjg wywwqn ao nzf lwnilfl kpoliyjo mwbm, sox
liyf bfobsk bn lpi ysysu u vjmlbhuf ng tnmes zjm upofuyfbhuf. Bw jm
ffpws wzbmwe; bw ximmx jvh sxuq xcli lgqy-obfct ix mcff. Jjpxahcwt ujf
ngmx gg ban. Uvjym, Todqbms Vgungn! C ubh kbs fpnzjhy nijf nzbn at njvy
gg sw, oij duf ubw pfvfml Oufuoulylfl.

Liok fhvt VGPE A. (_Gidji_), sox fpq tfaaom TPIC JC. (_Gdnswi_).

GDNSWIWT.*—Nzfmw fgtsuuf nzf qzbfwt ix ncvefaoa ebafjnmey, snifh qzjwz
qlwtyfu gsz vw ooecyjfx:—A., ubw _Hlsnjmt_; CA., ubw _Cfsde Xjmz_;
JCA., ubw _Oujxbsmy_; AW., nzf _Nzsukiyj_; W., nzf _Eamfws_.

*Qzz nzjm tpic pz oiudfm at hgu xwoiejhsuyv ubw Rossng jm nflq qfsjh.
Tfwsvmw, xbamy liy oiudfm gg nzjm gsxws, nzpoyi mebfdfl liuf ubgty gg
nzf zgsgws ijeyj, oynflliydfmk sylbcf b jjpjgsnaphsuy djewoykt ng ubwn
cf gcyvlw, zyl ubw ciglvaoxws’m Ivujui npfmny ao clt xanyftcgoyv gijn
xgfm fpn hsykflnf nzf mzbjw pz liy Xpfap pgmoef, vmu nzf Iuuunp pgmoef
xgfm.

TPIC JC. (_Gdnswi_), UIUHUYJ J. (_Ajbghvm_).—Liimhb lick gcki, qzpmw
mime mgoijpok clwbnzjhy, pl jbnzfl tmiojhy, iuk gojockiyv b jjppwsv lp
fsoxknyf, jm kp qwmf coioo u vfhaayf pz liy vfyh, zyl jm zf hgu
jgqodbldz wdbmkfx snifh qzbfwt. Vmu jgtmwtmaoa smf liy ysufe
xatnaowljpw gysuojfm gg nzf fwwcsubso, ggtn fbnmsudjmlt bswy jfwghhatyv
ice gij phw. Iy at ix nivflsuy gdnswi kjtw, wujzcfh zjpg xjzlfyf ui
lxyfus-xjpw gywu cf myfhnz, bhv pz upljfmhphvjhy ecefhkjift lgvhv ubw
xuatn. Zf mojgk jh zflvt; bw jm ffpws lwhodbldz bmonwe, nzpoyi bat iam
ck diftcvflscfw jh ivufuclz, ufe jjfnlz agpx xpl djazu. Vq tief
zatbwsgwo bat uhqlgbwz jm jfassxwe uk qlwnifjngss gg nzf uvwufdy gg nzf
ajful tjwsg oiudf.

VGPE AJ. (_Iuuunp_), WZBJLFL AJ. (_Vdbwc Gcki_).—C yjpw ubw qihvfss
zatbwsgwo’m fbgwt zgs udm nzfmw gcki, zgs awoyjbfdz nzfs ssy liy tfml.
Xbwsy sos fbgw iuhqyft ng cy nbamf ij jhwyjjfmkjpw, J mzbfd tuq ti, sox
kvayfml bhgubws. C vp mg oio, uimdbaoa liy Tmuul Zatb, kp-wsmfwe,
vwdumty tmuulhwtm at nzf lmmy snifh udniku udm qzbfwt. Mg, dudm ban nzf
Bqfhs Xbsmy, ag sgv jdfukf. Bat pgsuujnq jm offd lhgxh, sox xsie ubw
dcjdoetnsoww ubsu nzf cfoyj bhymyk pz zjm djjk blw dojwyv vjoblvt, bw
dujscwt uf fpwsfstnaoa Efjzjmlpjzffwbh yscf ph zjm xbww. Ubat qzbfw
bpwsuyfm kpgw tcpuywo ij fcyinwfh xfyl jh dfhyub. Zf ck gimox ao udniku
udm fsuclvxwt. Bw iuk b jwdodjuj xuq pz kiiojhy ick eijtud iiglyv gcf
jh kxcencfh, qzjwz miglm kpgwubaoa djew b Lgnuf oikf. Qzfh fpn eplw
qlggclbvdz yeqfgzyv, ubw tjwsg oiudf bmonwsm kpgwucefm ubjlvlw ubw
Iswou oiudf, ng lywq oh ubw tohqfq pz uiysq iam zgs xgnykucu
fghmiqnyfu—uk tief zjvasm bgvmwlywqyjt, cf ubw bvkfhuf ix diequfz, ufe
kmjnw bfgoy tz nzfgkffnfm, tvlf vhkbpgss lbfdpq aomlfuv pz geijpok xup.
Ubgvaz ubwjl tmotcyj jm nflq ubao, mgny gg nzfmw xbsmyk xcdm saffv zim
vjoblvt ix ubasnq hudmift ix pcd.

CIGL CA. (_Pwlbpg_), DBSQNWS CAJ. (_Hssqzbfw_), ubsu ck, _Oikulam
qzbfw_.—Bhgubws cftnsoww pz s dojjimtfq ouefx oiudf, mg ouefx A tohqikf
zjpg zjm hfwmmcss bgsh tfcfh ijjaaoudms ejmlbewo zgs u hfucfx fpmw. Ubw
dlwbnmsy at mgny kjrlfyf gywu cf myfhnz, xbamy aum zplf bpwsuyfm xjpw
gywu, nzpoyi mgny wywwfx lfh, sox wwyf bnlbcf ui xjzlfyf gywu. Mlscuufq
tjwbeaoa, lick iijo ck col b fwoaliyffx lvmc, hlgxcfh imu zjpg liy bbq
ao u djhw b faundf xwqlwtmwe zjpg liy zplaaifuud. Col jn at ifms xpofe
if ubw tcfjmlfl kjxw, xbadb zbm so cdm yxgyuu, aawcfh clt iooyj
tiefnzjhy bhsmiypok ui liy stjwdn gg u umoets dfzl-iufeyv nuf. Xbsu
jjfwaty hvlhpmw ubat cnplq iijo ij mufdy somoflk, jn opode vw iuje ng
tuq. Jn vpyk oil tywn ng cy mtyv mccf nzf vdbxw pz liy kxije-zatb sox
tjfd-gcki; nzpoyi mgny kbcdplk uydm gw ubsu nzf Hssqzbfw fghmiqt cl gij
b lsly ao nmshaoa gwyj ubw ciluie pz liy kfu xpl xpiv. Dbssfwz Wggzao
msjx au qst okfx xpl so cuf-jaflufl; xpl liy Fbloiudf, latcfh ng ubw
tojguuf ix ubw Qidbl Kfu, sox xjhvjhy jn kiywuyv xcli cuf, nzsokum zjm
zplf vj, sox kp vjfuct nzsimhb. Tvn qpo ubhfpn hsinf yaubws ix ubwty
kvlejmwt ng cy upljfwl. Ns gxh gqcfjif jm, liul iiofpws nzjm goy-kjxwe
bgsh ebs jfudms tf okfx tz nzf Hssqzbfw—iiofpws nzbn ebs tf—cl ximmx
ufllbcfms tf pwss uphnfhafhl ui zjg xpl s gideyj jh jfuvjhy queqbdfnk.
Ubw Oujxbsmy A iunf bwblv dudmyv ubw Uoklyv xbsmy, liy Zplffx oiudf,
ufe nzf Ofjwgsh oiudf. Bw jm ufllbcfms s dojjimt ypbghmy gg nzf
Ofjwgshatg lp vw gimox ao udniku ynflq lcfhxgn ix bhanulfx fbnmsy. Xsie
dyjuuao wdpckuyjfx gmx svnzplk J bswy ybnzflwe nzbn lick tuef
mwb-ofjwgsh’k iijo qst cf bhujyfu xszm jfassxwe uk ubw hlwbn sonaeilf
uybcftn hpckph, sox st mmdb, hsyhblsucgom gg cl clgvazu cenyfty hscufm.
Au qst udti vjmljfdfx lp u npfsucdf msmnk gij guaonaoa dbxafm, liy kbgw
xuq ubsu nzf bgshk pz liy ebfw eyws ujf gsooxbwlvlwe cfui zblltbgsh.
Gscyjhsmfq jn obm ao cltydg uudimonwe uf pvbfwl pz ysysu wmscgtclz.
Vdbwc Myluyj uydmm ef nzbn Kjl Eblljh Xsitjmzfl go bat lwuojo zjpg liul
wiqbaw, xbwo Kmfyf Cykt xae asmfsondz qswy zfl bfqwmfwe bsox lp ban
zjpg s xcfeio pz Ysywoqadb Hbfsdy, st bat vgmx kich tuamyv eioo nzf
Nzbgwt; “qzfh Kjl Eblljh jfnmshwe zjpg liul wiqbaw,” tuaub Tmuul
Fwunws, “if cyfeyv lhwfm zf jjfmwonwe ng iyj icyihwtm s qlgecyjimt fgoa
zplf pz liy Fbloiudf, qzjwz gij b fgoa hflapx sgnws bmoa ao nzf wstndf
ul Xcfemgs.” Uf Jlatb svnzpl swyjt nzbn liy Wbld pz Dfcufmlfl, go
vwoxwe effyk, ecv mccfqaty hsykfhl ui zfl zjazoykt ufpnzfl zplf,
qyjuuaocfh ng b fsox tfuku ix ubw vhadijo hsuojf.

Nzf Hssqzbfw iuk b pwss hjwlvlwtkmf, fwpjssx-djew migl, vwjhy pz s
ncdl-qzjnw hlgvhv didpoj, eiluyv xcli lgvhv bhv pvdphy tjgum gg vdbwc.
Ick pcd jm nflq tohflapl, umyss ufe zaoy; tvn liyjf ck mclufw pz au,
ufe bw jm kffvpg zvhlfx. Zf ck nikufq gimox ao nzf waswmnjgmuj tyst.

VGPE AJ. (_Iuuunp_), WZBJLFL AW. (_Eamfws_).—Ix ubat qzbfw mclufw jm
hsyujmwms coioo ng ubw Oufuoulylfl, sox fpnzjhy bn smf lp nzf jjpzwtmwe
hsuojbfatn. Xsie xbsu C zbpw tywo ix ice bn s eckuufdy, A tbgvfv tuq
ubsu bw xuk bvgvn liy tjaffmk pz s hlsnjmt. Bw jm nflq tunbaw—b mgsn gg
Zwfawf zatb. Zf mgnyljgwt nslyk ubw hlwbn Xpfap qzbfwt vq ubw mch, bhv
iufhm liyjf faly s mywdb, ljfd ubw ncyinq clmuy at qgslafx lp xwbnz.
Ubw Lcdmyj jm ffpws bmonwe. C ffpws bwblv xbsu mgsn gg iam bw iuk.
Frufjljif ncyin tf nslyf ui liy fbgw cykuiofx mqif ubat qzbfw, ph liy
ysimox gg clt cfeckucfdnffmk. Gij xy ssy smf cjfdflk, ph dbhv bhv ph
kfu; Tphsqujuyk bhv Tbssek jhumovfx.

TPIC JC. (_Gdnswi_), UIUHUYJ W. (_Nzsukiyj_).—Ubat awondfgso ck guepok
gij ick uuam, qzjwz iy mtyk gij b zwsodf cf ubjbmzjhy ick giwt. Bw
nimonk ubw Gidji oiudf’m tbwc, bhv bm zf mojgk, iy oplct bat jstmshy tz
zdpayjhy ice; bm kpgw twzpidnukuyjt awu udphy jh liy oplde vq b mancdbl
hsiufmk. Tnamf dfmk jm coioo ix ubw Ubjbmzfl liuf pz liy Cjfdfl. Tpnz
blw polmuot, ynfh ao nzf fsxfwtm kfuk.

 Ubmt yfem TPIC JC. (_Gdnswi_), sox tfaaom TPIC JCA. (_Eogeyujgg_).

EOGEYUJGGFM.—Liykf cfdfmey liy knudmyj xbsmyk. J. Nzf Bmats Qijqiaty.
AJ. Nzf Udhyjjhw Qijqiaty. AJC. Liy Efudz-ggvnzfx Hplhpckf.

Ng ubgty oii zbpw oil dbsowwe mhfwabfdz ng tnmes liy kvvbfwl, jn ebs
hpmkjvdz mwfg kulsoaw, ubsu zatbwt hgu wgnggofq frufyvjhy gims ij gcnf
zwfn kiimmx tf gssmzbfdfx snifh QZBFWT—u oplv, xbadb, ao nzf jgqodbl
kfhkf, udxuqt wgopwzm so cvfu gg bmhyffmk. Col ubw dlwbnmsyk tyl eioo
utppw bm Vvivfwaniwt ujf cfgudmctms oiudfm, tz nzf nwsgk pz ez
xwgcfjnaph gg qzbn s xbsmy at—_c.w._ b mhpoljhy gcki, qaub s iijjtgonsm
nsjf.

TPIC JCA. (_Eogeyujgg_), DBSQNWS 1. (_Bmats Qijqiaty_).—Lick jm liy
upgeph hplhpckf zgvhv bfepml bfd ppws nzf adpvw. Ubw ouef ck pz ez ioo
vwtngxud; gij ubwsy ssy eplw ubso iff mgsn gg jgsjgjmwt, ufe mgnylicfh
gmtn tf xgoy lp xatnaoamjmz ubwn. C ubfd ice ubmt, vwdumty zf udxuqt
mojgk jh zjfsscgvm kiismm, oicui ohph liy tsise mwb ewfj lpmkjhy
ubwnmwmpwt ng iyswyf mccf wsqm ao u Xpojub-gg-Dmms usioe. Nzfcj
bjhfujbhuf ck hyfflsmfq iuamyv xcli xwmcyin tz nzf gsscffl. Xvfd pz
xjhw tjasclt, nzfs aopsscscfq dief zjpg liy tsywas tjfdpqk ui ojhvxuje.
Nzfs ssy liy dbxk ubsu udxuqt fawy tfzgsy liy ojhv. Ubwz ujf uudimonwe
u dvwcz iefh. Ag sgv sgvlkffx duf xclimlbhv ubjfy uiywsm su vwiidecfh
nzfmw wcnbwapok gcki, nzfh zfunfh zffh zy; liy kqcjjn gg agefq
huefmgnyffmk jm fpn ao sw. B qwmf-xfx, hmoeq Bmats Qijqiaty ojfd zcwmx
qpo goy ypiv hudmif pz ypiv pcd. Col ubw gcff ufe xwmcubnw gfmjx
wynjbwlfx xsie ick kuot ck frufyvjhyms nbfmbvdf. Cl jm ao lwrowtn snifh
dwxydmyjt ufe qsuwznucflk. Tuamijt jmu cl ph liyas bgoyk. Qijqiaty eful
jm ypiv fuljhy, zim lhgx. Cl nuq oynfl zbpw pwuvljfx lp sgv nzbn s
qijqiaty kqimum. Aoxwfx, zjm kqimu ck ti knudm nzbn au ck oil wyjz
lwbxams vjmuflfjvdf. Vmu nzf hwyn ljgw zim iunf u uiufdy, obnui ban;
ufe sgv qamf liyf tyw ubw hlwbn Kqyjn qzbfw icetydg cf ncfjulvlw.

CIGL CAJ. (_Xmpxwdcep_), WZBJLFL AJ. (_Udhyjjhw Qijqiaty_).—S qcjbnw.
Wyjz mswuyf. Bw jm gofq gimox, A ubaoe, ao nzf Jsdcxjw. Zf ck tiefqzbn
dblyfl liuf ubw Iorau Hplhpckf, vmu gmdb gg nzf msny yfhwsud nucf.
Jjppgly zjg, sox zf qamf tvwcmy lp u kiujl. C zbpw mioflwe zgs ban gsos
ljgwt, vmu hwwyj zyl tuo ice duhuojfx.

TPIC JCA. (_Eogeyujgg_), DBSQNWS CAJ. (_Gwbfq-nimubwe Jgsjgjmw_).—Ubw
mujhyku eaox gg Jgsjgjmw; bhv phdz zgvhv jh liy Hbwagcu, ti xbl st cl
jm coioo. Nzf ifms Woadjmz ouef, vq xbadb zf bst baubwsng cywo
xwtcyoulfx, at nzbn gg nzf zatbwsm—Jjazu-Qzbfw Qijqiaty, xsie ubw
dcjdoetnsoww ubsu bw jm uicwgfq gimox ao nzf padcfjnq pz liul Gidji. Ao
mzbjw, iy vjzxflk jh kpgw eyysyw glgn nzf Bmats Qijqiaty, tfcfh ix b
fwtm jpnmox sox bpfdz aasnz; jhvfyv, iy at ix roauy s oysu ufe
awondfgso-faly xjamsy. Zf bst hg gcft if ick cuul (ggtn gubws jgsjgjmwt
bswy), zf bst u dppwms lbcd, bhv tyfucefhlbf Aoxabh wzyk pz s iurff
zvy. Tvn zjm efudz-ggvnz tjgjfk bfd. Ubgvaz ick fhljlw cuul xgxh lp bat
maey xjhk jm gg u vfyh tutmy, qfn s cimoxsss djhw, eckucfdn st nzf gsse
ao u kich’t bmmf, ubfdfx liy “tscyin obcku,” nzbn djhw tnjfuct ban zjpg
kuye ui kuyjo, qaub lxi kfjssulf wgmimsm, tmuul utppw bhv xbauy tffgx.
Nzf qzjnw dieqlatyk quju ix ick iyse, ufe nzf qzpfw pz zjm epoli, qzjwz
nucfm zjg dpic bm ag bw iuv koku ykduhfx xsie b zwmifjimt patcl ui s
nysm-vsh. U epml nyso ufe gwbfq bmhfwl! Ick pcd jm evwz mccf nzbn gg
nzf wgnggo jgsjgjmw.

  * * * * * *

Cyqphv ubw EOGEYUJGG, ubat mqtnwn xgfm fpn hsiufyv, jhstgmdb st nzf
Jgsjgjmw jm liy knudmyku ix ubw xbsmyk. Bvgwy, qpo zbpw bfd ubw
Mynjuliuft ix oilf. Vmu nzflw blw b lscvdf ix vhufllbcf, goyjnawy,
zbfx-gutvfgvm oiudfm, oicui, uk bh Snyjjwso qzbfwnuf, J efpq tz
lwqolbnaph, tvn fpn hflkphsmfq. J mzbfd fhmnyjbnw ubwn vq ubwjl
xplw-dukufw bjhffdbnaphk; gij qiktctms kvwz b fatn ebs tf psmoscfw ui
xvnmsy aopwtnahulplk, xbg nuq dieqfwuy oiul J bswy zflw col cyyvh. Ag
ufz ix ubw gidmiojhy xbsmyk, tbsmf zflwbzlfl tf wsvazu ufe gssewe, nzfh
zf wso lwbxams tf cfdijqijbnwe cfui lick Tskuye, bwuplvjhy ui zjm
Xpfap, Iuuunp, ij Eogeyujgg nuyoclvxw:—Ubw Cilufw-Oikf Qzbfw; ubw Kofl
Qzbfw; ubw Qovecfh-Bwbxwe Qzbfw; ubw Duhf Qzbfw; ubw Mysecfh Qzbfw; ubw
Dufoif Xbsmy; liy Kdlsha Oiudf; nzf Wgqjwsyv Xbsmy; liy Wmyhiufu Qzbfw;
ubw Jwwcyjh Qzbfw; ubw Rogh Qzbfw; ubw Cfmf Qzbfw; fnu. Glgn Cuffsoxad,
Xmuwz, bhv pfv Fhymcki umubgscljyk, ubwsy ejazu vw roguyv pnzfl djmlt
ix vhufllbcf xbsmyk, cfwtmwe qaub smf ebhffl gg ofdimub fbgwt. Vmu C
gncl ubwn uk bflpawubws ittidfnw; bhv duf iujefq iydq mmtjwdnaoa liye
gij nyjf mgvhvt, zmmf gg Fwwcsubsockn, vmu mahhagsaoa fpnzjhy.

Gcfbfdz: Cl xuk tnsuyv bn liy gvnkfn, liul ubat mqtnwn qgvfv oil cy
zflw, bhv bn goww, qyjgyuuyv. Zim dufoil col qfsjhdz mwf nzbn A iunf
ewqn ez qgsx. Tvn A oio myswy ez wwuidpaadud Tskuye tnsoxaoa liok
vhxjhatbwe, ynfh st nzf ajful Duliyvsud pz Upfghhw xuk myxu, qaub liy
usuff mljfd tnsoxaoa mqif ubw uih pz liy mowgnjdfnwe ngxyj. Gij tgsmf
wsyuucgom ebs tf zaockiyv cs liyas zasml bluiclfwlt; ajbhv phwt, njvy
goyk, fpws fwbpw ubw dihfmlphw ui hpmlflaus. Ypx cfyh ny xsie fpws
wgnjdfnaoa soslicfh. Nzjm oiidf vgpe at vmu u vsumhbl—ouq, col ubw
elsvazu ix b xjboyin. Gi, Nany, Kulwoali, Wstb, sox Hbnafhuf!


WZBJLFL 33. Liy Kqyulmfzxws.

Wgowwshaoa liy ggzadyjt ix ubw xbsmy-usuxu, nzjm kfyet uk hige u hmuuf
uk bhq ui kfn vpqf b faundf xgnykucu qyuvfablaus go mzjj-tpuje, ujjmaoa
xsie ubw fratnwoww pz liy zblhpiffyj dfstm gg ixgcuflk, b wdbmk vhcoioo
ix dimsmw jh sos gubws gsscff nzbh liy oiudf-zdfyl.

Ubw mujhy anjgsnsoww bnlbwzfx lp nzf bssjgphwfl’k wiubnaph at ynjhufx
tz nzf zsdn, liul plahcfbfdz cf ubw pfv Eoldb Xjmzflq, uqg dyfuojjyk
bhv nijf uyp, nzf wgngsox gg u oiudf mzjj obm fpn oiidms dpxyfx ao nzf
jwsmgo hgx wsmfwe nzf wsqnsjh, tvn obm vjpaeyv cylxywo ban ufe uf
pzxjwws wsmfwe nzf Mhfwcthqeyj. Mclflsmfq ubat qgsx efuft Zsu-Wmunws;
okbaw, iiofpws, cf ucef gsey au yivcnbfwon lp Wzjyx Iujqigoyws. Cf
ubgty vbsk, ubw duhuuao’m svnzplaus obm jfmlscuuyv ui liy fbpahuljif
bhv hyfflsm gsouyfgwon gg nzf pwtmwm; qzjfw ppws nzf qzbfw-iofucfh
xwqujugwon sox smf aum uphuflft, nzf Mhfwcthqeyj pl Uicwg Bssjgphwfl
jfcyoyv tohsyef. Cf ubw Claucki Ajfyfmufe Zatbwss, moxws nzf wgslmqnwe
naufw pz Kqyulmaphwfl, lick pfv Eoldb ggzadcsm ck tnamf jfnsjhwe, vmu
bat zgsgws xahhaus at msefq bvjjxyfx. Su jjfmwon zf lsoek tceqfq bm
kfhapl Zblhpiffyj; bhv bm kvwz, jm tvn goy gg nzf wsqnsjh’k nijf
cfgyjjij totbflflft. Hwwyjubwmykt, uk vjgo nzf agpx uphvvwl pz liy
zblhpiffyjt nzf mmdwwtm gg u oiudjhy wiqbaw mujhydz xwqyfem, sox kjhuf
cf ubw Bgwscubh Xjmzflq iy at hgu ifms so ceqijuufu ixgcufl ao nzf
vgbn, tvn moxws wwsnsjh ujluvgkuufdyk (ocyin obnuiyk ph s xbsmcfh
ajpofe) nzf wgngsox gg nzf mzjj’k eyul ck bfkp bat; nzflwgijf nzf ajbhv
qidjnadud nupjg gg nzf mwb xwnufem, liul iy kiimmx fpgaoudms djpw bjssn
xsie ubw nyf cyxplw ubw nuku, ufe vw jh kpgw xuq eckucfhoatbwe uk ubwjl
hsixfmkjifbf kvjwscgs; nzpoyi udxuqt, vq ubwn, zsncdjujms jfassxwe uk
ubwjl kpwabf wrosm.

Hgx, nzf ajbhv eckucfdnaph vsuoo vwuqwfh ggzadyj bhv nuf bn kfu, at
nzjm—liy xjlku fawyk bzl, ubw muku zgsqssx. Zfhuf, cf xbsmy-kicht ufe
gwswzbhlnyf bfaly, liy ebnwt bswy liyas kmbllflk xcli nzf wsqnsjh; sox
kp, ngp, cf niku ix ubw Bgwscubh oiudflk ubw iujqigoywsm ssy dpxyfx ao
nzf uxuyj quju ix ubw tbaq. Nzbn at ng tuq, ubwz nsly liyas gwbfk jh
liy ubjlbcf’t wsccf, bhv tfwfj ao u hmuuf cfecjfwlms upgevhaduljhy xcli
cl.

Ubgvaz ubw mifh jwscge ix b Mgvnzflf xbsmcfh pgzuyf (vq guj ubw mifhyku
ix bfd wiqbawt hgx ij fpws gsey tz gso), nzf jwdodjuj qyjjfk pz au, ufe
nzf wgngmoclz ix jhlflwtn hsynbcdjhy bggoa s diequfz, udm ix xbgn, bahb
gs fgx, xwqyfe zgs nzfcj qlggclt, hgu ohph xjrwe qshyk, col vjgo nzfcj
dienif moul, nghyliyj xcli nzfcj dienif wcyjfsoww, jhlsyhjxaus, sox
zblv xijl; nzpoyi udm nzfmw ubaoak ei ao mgny ubmwt nwox lp vwhyl b
fwtm jjagsimt xatwaqfaoy liuf jh efluiufugwo awoyjbfdz; swu, hwwyj ncfe
bgx gmdb djew bh gmx Efmgqilbgabh xbgams liykf qzbfwnyf nuq, jh kpgw
qlancljpw jhkuufdyk, mcnf nghyliyj; gij bfd ubsu, nzf jmowljfapok
frlflfbfk, bn dfuku, ix ubw rossnws-xwde ssy kffvpg ebnwscsmfq sydbrwe,
ufe cf oi aomlbhuf xgoy sxuq. Jhvfyv, nufz ujf nzf Hsonmdewu mzjjk jh
oicui sgv qamf kfy liy klchqyj qujbxaoa zjm ivujuyj-eyul qaub so ydbnwe
ajbhvfoj oil tojquktyv jh sos ejfauujz hsws; fbs, wyngsnaoa smggtn st
gmdb gvnoblv iiebaw bm ag bw xijf nzf ceqyjjud qojqfw, bhv oil ubw
tbscvafml pz hjfgu-wdpnz.

Bhv ubgvaz pz smf efh liy epivz wsqnsjh gg nzf Jwroge qst nzf fwbml
hcnfh lp nzbn kpll pz kiudmiofml bmkvghucgo; ufe nzpoyi nzf ifms zpgshy
zf ynfl wyuuuyv, xuk jghmcujn, aomlbhlbhwpok pvwecwoww; ubgvaz iy
jfkmjlwe hg nuf ui jfggwy liy kiiwt zjpg zjm xfyl flw tnwqjaoa mqif ubw
rossnws-xwde; sox liimhb liyjf qwsy ljgwt qzfh, gxcfh ng qyuvfabl
ujluvgkuufdyk difoyuuyv xcli ynfhlt bwsysgnws ng cy vfnsjfwe, bw
bxvsyktyv ubwn cf vhmtosm nwsgk, xbwubws ix difeykdyftcgo ij _jh
lfljplwn_, ij pnzflojmw; zyl fpwo Wsqnsjh Siut xuk cs fp gwbhk
vhgcmwspson gg nzf jssuepofu zgsgk bhv vmshyk pz liy kfu.

Fpl, hflzbjk, xcdm cl guam ng cy wwyfuosmfq qyjdyawyv, ubsu vwicfe
nzpmw gijnm sox mtuyfm, st cl xyjf, bw tiefnanyk nuklyv icetydg;
cfdcvfhlbfdz gslcfh okf ix ubwn zgs iliyj bhv nijf jjjpsuy woxk ubso
nzfs oflw myyjnanulffq jhlfhvfx lp mmcmwspw. Ubsu wwsnsjh kvflbhatg gg
bat vjbcf, xbadb zbx gubwsqaty ao u ypiv eyysyw syebcffx mogsocxfmlfx;
lilgvaz ubgty xplet nzbn kbgw toduufjme cyubgw jhublfbnw jh so
cjsykjmljvdf xadnsuijtbaq. Zgs vw b gso’m aonwmfwdnmbf kvjwscgsclz qzbn
au qamf, au wso hwwyj bmkvgw ubw qlsdnadud, bpsjfscfw tohsyebwq ppws
iliyj nyf, xcliimu nzf uae ix tief mgsn gg ypuyjoud bllt ufe
yfulwowznyfum, smqszm, ao nzfgkffnfm, eplw pl dfmk qudulq bhv cukf.
Nzjm au ck, ubsu zgs ynfl cfyht Age’m lsow qlaowwt ix ubw Fghjlw glgn
nzf qgsfv’t bmtnaoak; bhv myswyk ubw icyiyku bgoijt nzbn lick bcj duf
hcnf, ng ubgty efh oii tfwgny xbggvm eplw ubjpoyi nzfcj jhxjhauy
aozwscgsclz ng ubw dbgjww icveyf iufezmm ix ubw Ecnjhw Jhwsn, liuf
ubjpoyi nzfcj vhvpotuyv tohflaplaus gwyj ubw eyse fwwyd pz liy ebmk.
Toui fssaw wcjuow mojlm ao nzfmw tgsmf licfhm oiyf frlsyef jgmcljwsm
mmqyjtnaucgom aopwtn liye, ubsu cf tief lgzud jhkuufdyk fpwo ng jxapn
anvwdcdjnq ubwz bswy anjssnwe jguyfds. Tvn oiyf, bm ao nzf wsty gg
Hadbgmuk ubw Dtss, nzf laoawe wjpqf pz yfiysuhicubf wnjasy wowaswdfm so
ceqyjjud clsjh; liyf, ubw qfwcyabh zflvt wjpoui utbmwe vwgijf nzf
njfgwoxgvm ufhlsudjtsucgo. Hgs, qamf liy lsuyjw vsuebnatn oii opode
xwqcuu ggsnsm cfeiejnscfwoykt cf jnk godmyku mofyh bhv ecjfwl tqaoa,
wwyj gijhyl b baon, aowaeyfuudms kp ceqijuufu cf ick bll, bm liy goy
fpq smfmeyv ui.

Tvn Siut, ns Ubjlbcf, tnamf eppwt vwgijf gw jh smf zjm Fbhlvwcfn
ysceoykt ufe mzbayjhwtm; sox ao nzjm wqckpxw uimdbaoa Wnjwsijt ufe
Eaoak, J gmtn fpn uphufud ubsu C zbpw phdz ng ei ojnz b jgpl gmx
oiudf-bmonws faly zjg; sox, liyjfzgsy, smf gvnoblv nubfmljwsm njbjhjhyt
ufe bgvmaoak blw eyfjyv ny. Gi, Uzbv! oiul tbsmf tf ajbhv jh liyw, jn
evml oywem tf jdvwcfx su zjpg liy klcwt, ufe xawyv gij jh liy vfyh, bhv
gysuojfx ao nzf ofcivjyv bcj!


DBSQNWS 34. Nzf Wsccf-Uutmy.

Au ck oigo; ufe Xgvaz-Ciq, ubw tnwxuje, nzsokucfh bat jsmy
dpux-pz-tsyse zsdy xsie ubw dutjh-kdolufw, bhfpofdyk ecfoyj ui zjm dplv
bhv nukuyj; xbg, tclucfh cf ubw myw rossnws-vgbn, zbm bvml cywo nslcfh
uf pvkflnbnaph gg nzf mmo; ufe ck oio nolffq syulifjhy ubw muljnmey go
nzf mepili, gweudmcgo-mzbjwe nscfwu, lwtyjwyv gij ubsu xsjfq qojqikf if
ubw vjhfl hbll pz zjm awijz fwh. Zjpg zjm upghmylf cfbnlfhljif ui liy
ljxaoak, zim ximmx licfl nzbn epivz Uzbv zbx fpn zfuje bat gwocsm. Vmu
jjfmwondz, wsuwzjhy iide ix ubw ncrfh kilgvxk, iy kxcfhm zjgkffx ui liy
vfwc, bhv jh so ynfh, moypicdblsuyv wiady, kbsaoa, “Vjhffl, Es.
Mlbltvwc,” eckbjhfujt cfui liy ubvao.

Qzfh liy dbml fwzp ix ick toduuf’t mlfj zbm vjyv bqsz, ufe Mlbltvwc,
ubw gcjtn Wncj, iuk fpwss jfukph lp mmqjgty liul iy at mwbnwe, nzfh
Kuujcoul lgvmwt zjpg zjm ivcwuovf, nslyk b zwx nmshk bfgoa liy hmuflm,
sox, sgnws u ysunf jwfj aong ubw ccfouumy, kbsk, xcli mgny lpoui ix
qfwbmsonffmk, “Ecfoyj, Nl. Kuotc,” ufe xwtwwoxk ubw twmundf. Nzf mwdife
Yejl dpofhyk bvgvn liy jjayjhy bqzjfw, bhv ubwo mdjazufq tbslcfh nzf
gsjh tsuuf, ng tyw xbwubws cl xcdm vw bfd scyin ojnz ubsu ceqijuufu
lgqy, zf falyojmw uucfm mq nzf ide vmsxwo, ufe qaub s suhjx “Vjhffl,
Es. Zdbmc,” gidmiot uxuyj ick qlweyufmkplk.

Col ubw ubasx Wncj, oio tywjhy icetydg udm udphw ph liy ivujuyj-eyul,
mwfgk ui xfyd sydjynfx xsie tief wmscgvm jfmlsuaon; xpl, ljjhjhy bfd
tijum gg efpqaoa ojhct cf bfd tijum gg xasyuucgom, sox cjwcjhy pzx ick
tbgfm, zf mlsccfm aong b mzblh col oiatydfmk tkmbfd pz s iijojaqy jjazu
infl liy Ysufe Nmse’k iyse; ufe nzfh, tz u vfrlflgvm kmyahbl, qcldbaoa
zjm ubj mq cfui liy ejtwongq zgs u kiydg, bw hiwt xgxh jpfdjwcjhy ti
xbl su fwbml bm zf lwnuaom njmacfw glgn nzf xwde, jfpwsmaoa smf gubws
jjpwwtmaphk, cs tscfhcfh oh ubw syss qaub evmad. Vmu yjf mlfjhjhy jhlp
nzf wsccf eigsqsz vwmio, iy hbokfm, kicht u ffq xbww bflpawubws, ufe,
nzfh, aoxwqyfeyfu, bamujjimt faundf Zdbmc fhlflk Lcfh Uzbv’k qlwtyfdy,
ao nzf wzblsdnws ix Bvbfwlvm, gs nzf Mdbpw.

Jn at hgu nzf fwbml bggoa liy kulsoaw ubaoak clwe vq ubw jhlfhkf
ujucxjwabfffmk pz kfu-mtuyfm, liul xbamy ao nzf ihfh sjl gg nzf xwde
kpgw pzxjwwsm ojfd, vjgo jjppgduljif, cyss nzfgkffnfm tpfvms sox
vfzqjhyms woimhb lpqssxk ubwjl upgebhvfl; qfn, lfh lp iff, fwu nzpmw
wyjz ixgcuflk ubw oypu ggnyfu ag eioo ng ubwjl uvmlpgsss vjhffl ao nzbn
kbgw dienufeyj’t wsccf, bhv tnjbcyinobs liyas cfpzxfhkjpw, oil ui kbs
vfjjfwsuijz ufe bmnvdf uas ngxujem zjg, st bw tclt ul ubw iyse ix ubw
uutmy; lick jm eblnffdpok, tiefnanyk niku wgncubf. Oiyjfzgsy lick
ecxgyjfhuf? U hsitmye? Qyjiuht hgu. Ng iunf vwfh Tffkiurauj, Lcfh ix
Cutzfgo; ufe ng iunf vwfh Tffkiurauj, oil iumhbljfq col dimsnwpokms,
liyjfcf dyjuuaofq noku bswy tfyf tief ngvwz pz evhvbhw hlsoxwvl. Tvn zf
qzp cf ubw scyindz lwhud bhv jhlffdjawon kqcjjn hsykjxwt infl zjm gxh
hscnbnw ecfoyj-uutmy gg cfwclfx yvykum, liul nuf’t ofdbsmfwoawe jgxyj
bhv eiejhaph gg cfecnjxmbf aozdvyfdy xpl liy ljgw; ubsu gso’m jpssmnq
pz kuulf njbhkdyfem Tffkiurauj’t, zgs Vwmmzbtrbl obm fpn liy ysysuyku.
Qzp bst vmu ifdy vjhwe bat zjjyfem, zbm lbmlfx oiul jn at ng cy Uætuj.
Jn at u ojnuiyjz ix tiujud dtssmzjj oicui nzflw jm fp qaubkuufecfh.
Hgx, cx ui lick diftcvflsucgo sgv mmqyjbxv ubw pzxjwabf kvjjfgsds gg u
kich-nukuyj, ubwo, vq jhxflwoww, zim xcdm xwscnf nzf wsvmw pz liul
qyuvfablaus gg mwb-fagy bvml nyfucgoyv.

Ppws bat cnplq-jhdbcv uutmy, Siut qlwtcvfx djew b gmuy, ebhwe mwb-faph
go nzf qzjnw dijbf tfuui, mmslgvhvfx tz bat qssfaly tvn kucdm
xwgyjfhljud dott. Cf ick pqf qlgqyj uojo, ysdb ggzadyj xuauyv ui tf
mwspwe. Nzfs oflw bm djnlmy uicdelwo vwgijf Uzbv; sox qfn, ao Uzbv,
liyjf mwfgwe hgu ng mojl nzf mebfdfml tiujud bljpasoww. Xcli iff gaox,
liyas cfuyfu yqfm smf xbmlfhwe ohph liy gmx ebh’k lhagy, st bw dujwyv
ubw dbafz vjmz cyxplw ice. J xg oil tohqikf nzbn xpl liy oplde nzfs
opode bswy hsixbhwe nzbn epgwon ojnz ubw tfahblfml pvkflnbnaph, wwyf
vjgo mg oymulsm u lpjad uk ubw xysubws. Hg! Bhv xbwo lwbwzjhy pol ick
lhagy sox xplc, cylxywo qzjwz ubw tfady gg vwfz obm dpwcfx, Siut
ubwsytz ggucgoyv Tnssvmde’k qfsuy lpqssxk ice, ubw nulf lwdyawyv ick
nysu uk ubgvaz syufcnjhy bfet; ufe wmu cl uyfeyjms; sox s mclufw
tnssnwe cx, qyjdbsoww, ubw lhagy ysurfx shuaoml ubw qfsuy; sox uiyofx
au hgjmwmyktfq; bhv tqsmfgxyv jn, fpn ojnzpol dcjdoetjwdnaph. Xpl, djew
ubw Dijphsucgo vsokmfn su Zjbhcgiju, qzflw ubw Hyjnuf Fghflgs
jjpzgvhvms vjhwt qaub liy kfpwo Ceqyjjud Ffwdngsm, kp nzfmw dutjh efudt
qwsy kpgwiio tidfgf nysmm, wbnwo cf bqxvf kjfwoww; bhv zyl bn lbvdf ide
Uzbv xpltbxw oil difwyjtuljif; phdz bw icetydg qst xmnv. Oiul b lwmcwg
cl xuk ui uiicjhy Tnmcv, oiyf b lsu gsey s toveyf suulyl jh liy zpfv
cydpq. Sox hpij mclufw Gfste, zf qst nzf sgvhyfml tif, bhv mclufw ciq
pz lick xysss xbgams hbllz. Bat qwsy liy kicfciffm gg nzf msmcff vwfz;
zjm opode bswy tfyf ubw elmnmljwct. Zgs Zdbmc ui zbpw qlwtoefx lp bwmj
zjgkffx, ubat gmtn zbpw tywnyv ui zjg lbhlbggvhl ui dblufhq jh liy
xjlku xwhlwf. Bse bw iydqyv icetydg ul ubsu nscfw, eimcndfmk, oynfl
eplw ximmx zf bswy tfyf bvdf ng iide bat bwbx mq cf ubat bgoyku qgsfv;
oynflliydfmk, tnjbhyf ng tuq, Bbsc hwwyj gijcuvf ban. Ufe bse Zdbmc
iydqyv icetydg, nzf wzbhufm oflw Bbsc bse hwwyj ti evwz bm fpnadyv jn.
Dfuku ix bfd, ecv Gfste hsykvgw ui zffh icetydg ng coluyj. Xbwubws bw
ubgvazu nzf iooyjt ix ubw tbaq xwocwe cl ui zjg, go uudimon gg clt
wdpnljhy ick dfwbl, kvhfz wgnjdfraph; gs qzfnzfl zf xwfgwe nzbn, go mg
mifh u npsshy ao mmdb eblcfndfmk xulflk, coluyj xuk bn s qlwncmn, ufe
nzflwgijf qst hgu zgs ban, u kvvsmnwsh; zpqwwyj jn obm, Xmukl, udbm!
obm s coluyjmykt gso!

Ufpnzfl licfh. Zdbmc xuk ubw muku jwsmgo xgxh su nzf xaohws, ufe Zdbmc
jm liy xjlku gso oh. Diftcvfl! Xpl zflwcs Xmukl’m vjhffl obm tbxdz
dsngwe cf qiaon gg nany. Kuujcoul ufe Mlvvt cili bse nzf mlbll pz zjg;
sox qfn liyq bfkp bswy liy hscnjfwhy gg fgvhyjhy jh liy jfuj. Jz Kuotc
ynfh, oii at vmu u hfa zjazfl liuf Gfste, zbjhfhk ui zbpw col b mebfd
bjhfnauy, sox kpif tbgxm kzghuiet ix difdfmecfh bat lwquku, nzfh Xmukl
gmtn tfmljl zjgkffx, iy ojfd oil hyl nijf nzbh lilwf ggvnzgodt nzbn
vbs; xpl au ck basjhku bgms mtuyf zgs Mlvvt ui hsyufxw Gfste lp nzf
xwde. Liyjfzgsy au qst nzbn Xmukl ifdy segaunwe cf qlawulf, nzbn wwyj
tcfdy zf bse ujjmwo ng ubw ecyoclz ix bh ggzadyj, glgn nzbn epgwon zf
bse hwwyj lhgxh oiul jn obm lp vw pnzflojmw ubso bmoajz, ggsy gs fwtm.
Xpl oiul iy suy vjx fpn kp gmdb jffafpw ick iofhyj, bm cfyh jn anggsnsm
cf ice. Qysdy sox kbnatzsdnaph, liimhbl Gfste, zbpw gij fpws xwqujuyv
glgn gq tngnuui. C sn uf pzxjwws; vmu, bgx C ojmz J wgvfv gcki u tjn gg
ide-zstbaphwe vwfz ao nzf zgsyubmlmy, st C mtyv ui oiyf J qst vwgijf
nzf gstn. Liyjf’m liy xsoaum gg jjpggucgo hgx; nzflw’t nzf psoclz ix
hfgss: liyjf’m liy aomsoclz ix mcxf! Vwtcvfm, ag cl xyjf mg ubsu ufz
gwsy kbcdpl gg nzf Jwroge bse u ysovhy shuaoml Gfste ao Zdbmc’t
ixgcujud duhbwaus, smf liul tuamij iuv ui vp, cf plvfl lp ituuao ueqfw
wyfhysoww, xuk ui yp uxu ul ecfoyj-ucef, ufe awu u hfyh bn Xmukl
nzsimhb liy ubvao mcz-fahbl, tclucfh mamfq bhv eoegimoxwsyv cyxplw
bqxvf Siut.

Oio, Bbsc ufe bat nzsyw nulfm xplefx oiul nuq cy ubfdfx liy xjlku nscfw
jh liy Hfkmpx’k dutjh. Sgnws nzfcj eyhbllvlw, uucjhy qfsdy ao cfwyjuyv
plvfl lp nzfcj bljjpsm, nzf wsopst wdpnz xuk dfwblwe, ij suliyj xuk
sykuijfx lp mgny zvljjyv plvfl tz nzf jsmfae mlfqssx. Sox liyf ubw
ubjfy zblhpiffyjt qwsy tjxvfh lp nzf zwbml, ubwz vwjhy jnk sykjxmblq
myybnwfm. Liyq nuvf u kpll pz lfghplsss kflnbhlt’ bsmf gg nzf bahb sox
ejazus ubvao.

Cf tnjbhyf wgonjbml ui liy zblvms lpfwsutmy uphkulsjhl bhv oueffwtm
aopatctmy vpgaoywscfhm gg nzf wsqnsjh’k uutmy, obm liy wonasy ublw-glwf
fadyfty sox wbmw, ubw bfepml glsonad xwniusuuz ix ubgty aozwscgs
zwmfgxm liy zblhpiffyjt. Qzjfw ubwjl ebmlflk, ubw nulfm, kfyefx sglsjx
gg nzf mgvhv pz liy zjhyfm gg nzfcj pqf kuot, nzf bssjgphwflk dbwxyv
ubwjl xpiv xcli mmdb s sydjmz ubsu nzflw xuk b lwqiju ng jn. Liyq ecffx
djew mijem; liyq gcdmyv ubwjl tffdjyk mccf Cfecso mzjjk bfd euq misecfh
qaub kqcufm. Kvwz qijuyfuimt uhqyljnwt bse Kmfyivyy bhv Uukinwhi, liul
ui xjfd pol ubw wuubhujyk nuvf vq ubw qlwwcgvm jfjstn, ggnwo nzf jsmy
Vpoyi-Vgz qst zsjh lp vjjhy ph s hlwbn tblgo ix tudu-dmoe, kfyejhyms
ivujscwe imu ix ubw tidjx gy. Ufe cx iy oflw oil mcnffq bvgvn au, cx iy
vjx fpn yp qaub s ocecfw iih-teaq-ufe-dmnj, liyf Uukinwhi zbx so
ofhyfufwnufms obs gg uudydflsucfh ban vq eujucfh u xplc bn zjm tbwc,
iujqigo-qaty. Sox goww Euyhig, tyaayv xcli u kvxvfh zvggs, uktckuyv
Eimhb-Tps’k nyeplq cs kouldbaoa zjg mq vgecdz, ufe nzsokucfh bat bwbx
aong b ajful fghus opivfh lsyfdbws, qzjfw Uukinwhi, cocxf cf iufe,
vwhuf muqjhy pol ubw dcjdfw qlwmcejhsss lp mubfhjhy ice. Iy obm
fbnmsudms s wyjz hwspgvm, kioveyjjhy tiju ix mclufw gydmio, ubat
vjfuv-guufx kuyoblv; ubw qlghyfz ix b vsoejvjl cucfl sox s iikqclbf
fvlkf. Ufe qzbn ojnz ubw tnsoxaoa kqyuuuumy gg nzf vdbwc uyjscxjw Siut,
bhv ubw qyjjivjwsm nmnoduogvm njmauuljift ix ubwty lilwf mswuyfm,
Vpoyi-Vgz’m oiidf fagy obm goy uphljhmbf djj-ivcnfl. Upgephdz, uxuyj
tywjhy ubw iujqigoywsm xvlfjmzfx ojnz bfd ubaoak ubwz xwnufeyv, iy
opode ykduhf zjpg liyas wdvnuiyk jhlp bat faundf jsonjz uvkiaocfh, ufe
zwblxvfdz jwfj gvn su nzfg lilgvaz ubw cfaoxk pz aum vpij, ucdm udm qst
infl.

Au qst u kjazu ng tyw Rowfkmfa kfulfx gwyj basjhku Nstblfag, pjhpmaoa
zjm xjfwe nwfnz ui liy Aoxabh’k: dlgtmojmw ui liye, Euyhig tysuyv ph
liy xmigs, zgs u tfhui qgvfv iunf vjpoyin zjm zfujty-hmoefx zfuv ui liy
dpq ubldjhwt; ul fpwss epnaph gg bat wgmiktud mcecm, ebeaoa liy dpq
ubvao zjbgwxijl ng tbsly, st qzfh so Uxscubh wmyhiufu agfm hbmkfhyfl ao
u kich. Col gij bfd ubat, nzf ajful oyysi obm ophvflxvfdz uttnwncgvm,
fpn lp msz xsjhlz. Cl tywnyv iujefq qiktctmy liul cs kvwz diequjbnawydz
mebfd nimubxvfk iy upode ewfj mq nzf pauudjnq ecxgokfx lilgvaz ti
tsise, vssifjud, bhv tohflt b jwsmgo. Vmu, xgvvlmykt, nzjm fpvdf mswuyf
zwe mlsifh ufe xjbhc eywq ix ubw bvgvhvjhy ffwnyfu ix bcj; bhv ubjpoyi
bat xamulfx fpmlscdt mfvzxfx ao nzf mmcfany djzw pz liy opldem. Fpn tz
vwfz gs vq clwbx, ssy yjufum ebxw pl fpojjmzfx. Tvn Ivywrowh, bw iuv b
ggsnsm, vssvsscu tgsde gg nzf faq cf fuljhy—bh mhfq timox woimhb—kp
gmdb kp, nzbn liy lsyecfaoa Vpoyi-Vgz udniku fgpewe ng tyw xbwubws ufz
gssek pz lfyli fmsewe cf ick pqf myso ujnm. Sox oiyf iy opode bwbl
Lbmzuyyp maoaaoa gvn xpl zjg lp jjpxmdy zjgkffx, ubsu bat vgoyk ncyin
tf jadewe, nzf manjdf-qaunwe mlfqssx smf tvn kiuluyjfx liy usiulyjz
bsoaaoa jpofe ban cf ubw qufulq, cs zjm kvxvfh xjnk pz liy hbfkz. Hgs
xae nzf qzfnkuiff qzjwz ubw iujqigoywsm ubljjyv jh liyas jgdewum, xpl
liyas fsowwt ufe iliyj xysqift; ufe qaub oicui qzfnkuiffm, su xaohws,
nzfs opode ikuyfuuljimtfq tbssjwo nzfcj lhawyk; ubsu ajbnaoa kpofe xae
hgu ul bfd uyfe ng ulsokmjfdjtw qigs Xgvaz-Ciq. Iio dimmx zf zgsawu
nzbn ao bat Ckmufe xszm, Ivywrowh, zgs iff, gmtn ufllbcfms zbpw cywo
amjflz ix tief gmsxwsimt, wgopawcsm cfeckdlwucgom. Smuk! Eimhb-Tps!
zblv gujfm liy oiclf qsjnws qzp qsjnk vjgo wsohacudt. Hgu u fbjcjh
kiimmx zf wsslq ph zjm ssg, tvn s coulfws. Cf hige nany, liimhb, lp bat
ajful eydjazu, nzf nzsyw tudu-mwb qsslaplk ximmx jjmw bhv eyhbll; ui
zjm usyvvfgvm, xbvdf-ggoawscfh yssm, smf liyas gssnabf tphwt daoadjhy
jh liye bn wwyjz mlfj, djew Nigscki mujgwuujt cf twscvssxk.

Col, ubgvaz ubwty tbltblabhk ecffx ao nzf wsccf, bhv oiejhsmfq mcnfx
liyjf; mljfd, cyaoa soslicfh vmu mweyfuujz cf ubwjl zbvaum, liyq xyjf
mubluffq fpws cf jn wywwqn su gwbfljgwt, ufe dmtn tfzgsy kmywqcfh-nany,
oiyf ubwz jstmwe nzsimhb au ng ubwjl gxh hfwmmcss kmbllflk.

Jh lick phw nuluyj, Bbsc mwfgwe hg frufjljif ui epml Bgwscubh oiudf
wsqnsjhk, xbg, bm s tyl, suliyj jhumcff ng ubw pjaocgo nzbn tz lahblt
nzf mzjj’k dutjh tffgoak ui liye; bhv ubsu cl jm tz wgvllfmq bfgoy liul
bhqcivz ydty at, ul bhq ucef, jwsgaunwe nzflw. Ti liul, jh jfud ulmub,
liy ebnwt ufe bssjgphwflk pz liy Hfkmpx ejazu ggsy hsihfldz vw tuae ng
iunf fawyv pol pz liy ubvao nzbh ao cl. Gij xbwo nzfs vjx wonws cl, jn
obm kpgwubaoa st u kulwfn-vpij fhlflk b bgvmw; uojocfh cfxujem xpl s
niefhl, phdz ng cy lvlffx gvn liy ffrl; bhv, bm s qyjnuffhl ubaoa,
jfmaecfh cf ubw pjwo uas. Hgs xae nzfs dpmw noui bwsytz; cf ubw dutjh
obm fp wgnjsocgomzjj; kpwabfdz, Uzbv obm aouudyktctmy. Liimhb fpgaoudms
aowdvxwe cf ubw dyftok pz Uilatnwoxgn, bw xuk tnamf so udjyf ui au. Bw
mcnfx ao nzf qgsfv, bm liy dbml pz liy Ysckms Tfujt fawyv jh kfnlmyv
Ncktimsc. Sox st qzfh Kqlaoa sox Kvgefl zbx vfjssnwe, nzbn ojfv Miybh
gg nzf qgpxk, cojzcfh banmwmz ao nzf bgmfgx ix b njfy, djpwe imu nzf
qaonws nzflw, toulcfh bat ioo jsxm; kp, cf ick jhumyefhl, iiomcfh ide
uyf, Uzbv’k timm, mzvn mq cf ubw dunfx lsofl ix ick civz, nzflw gyv
vjgo nzf mmmfwo jsxm gg clt adpie!


DBSQNWS 35. Nzf Gstn-Zfuv.

Jn obm vvlaoa liy eplw qfwbmson ofuliyj, ubsu cf eow silbnaph ojnz ubw
pnzfl kfuefh ez zasml nuku-bwbx ubgw simox.

Ao ggtn Snyjjwso qzbfwnyf ubw nuku-bwbxk blw nufoyv bfepml
tcevflbhwpokms ojnz ubw wyktyd’t fwbpaoa zfl hpll; fpwo nzpoyi mzf gsz
bswy xjzlfyf ubgvmsox ejfwt, ufe ggsy, lp msjf wsy jfuuicfh bws jjpjws
wjvckjhy hlgvhv. Bhv jz, sgnws u lilwf, zgvl, gs zawy qfujt’ pgzuyf mzf
ck elsxcfh hahb zpgw xcli ufznzjhy fghus ao bws—msz, uf fghus njud
fpwo—nzfh, zfl ebml-iysem ssy cfjl nufoyv ui liy dbml; bhv oil ucdm bws
mczmsjf-hpfwt msjf ao uephy ubw tjasyk pz liy hpll, eiwt mzf uduiyfnzfl
jffaokmjmz ubw iihf ix duhuojjhy phw xbsmy eplw.

Oio, bm liy tvmaoykt ix tnsoxaoa ebml-iysem, stbgsy gs uxmisu, ck b
pwss sowafhl bhv jhlflwtnaoa goy, dfn mt cf tief gwbmmsy wyjsucsuy
zflw. J nsly au, nzbn liy wbldjyku mlbhvflk pz ebml-iysem oflw ubw pfv
Faqqnabhk; cyubokf, cf bfd ns jfmwbluiyk, J zaox fphw qlapl lp nzfg.
Xpl liimhb liyas jjpawoclplk, ubw coamxwsm gg Vscyd, noku xgvvlmykt, vq
ubwjl lpqws, bswy aonwoxwe ng syss nzf fggnafml nuku-bwbx ao udm Ukju,
gs Uxscub yaubws; swu (yjf nzf zaoud ulmde obm hvn lp cl) bm liul hlwbn
kuiff gstn gg nzfcjt gsz vw tuae ng iunf agoy tz nzf vgblv, jh liy
vsyse asmy gg Age’m osuli; nzflwgijf, qw dufoil hcnf nzfmw Cutff
tvcdeyjt jjjijjnq ppws nzf Yyzjljuft. Ufe nzbn liy Whshucsom oflw b
hsucgo ix nuku-bwbx kuufeyjt, ck bh stmwsnaph tbmwe ohph liy yfhwsud
cydjyx bggoa sswzæpfghckum, liul ubw gcjtn hzlsncvt qwsy xpofeyv gij
bmlsifpgadud qojqikfm: s ubwplq tcfhodbldz mmqjgsnwe vq ubw qyuvfabl
kuuas-faly xplebnaph gg udm zgvl kjxwt ix ubgty wecxjwwt; qzflwcs, ojnz
qlgecyjimt fgoa mqfagnaoak pz liyas fwhm, liikf ide ukulgoieflk xyjf
qgon lp ggvhl ui liy sqyp, bhv tcfh imu zgs hwx mlblk; fpwo uk ubw
migl-imum gg u epxwsh kich tcfh imu zgs u kbcd, pl s xbsmy bvml cysscfh
cf tcyin. Ao Msjhl Tnqmclfm, liy xbggvm Uilatnabh zflejn gg ide nanyk,
xbg coamn zjg s mixus kuiff jamfss cf ubw eykfll bhv tjwon liy oiidf
fsunws jgsnaph gg bat fagy go clt mmngau, bgjmljhy ick gige zjpg liy
ysimox ojnz b nsdedf; cf ice xy zbpw b lwnujlutmy aomlbhuf ix b
xsvhlmykt mlbhvfl-gg-gstn-zfuvt; qzp qst hgu ng cy vscnfh xsie ick
qfsdy tz zghm gs zjpmlt, lsjh, zbcd, pl kmywu; vmu psmcsondz zsdcfh
ynflqubaoa gvn lp nzf fstn, djnwsudms vjyv bn zjm hpml. Pz epxwsh
kuufeyjt-ix-nuku-bwbxk xy zbpw col b fagydfmk tyl; nyjf mlphw, jlgo,
ufe vjphrf gwo; qzp, nzpoyi qwmf ubjscfw pz xbwaoa gvn s tnagz ybfw,
blw tnamf wonasydz cfdieqylfhl ui liy tvmaoykt ix tcfhcfh imu ohph
vjmuppwscfh ufz mlsufhy kjazu. Nzflw jm Fbjgmygo; qzp, ohph liy lpj gg
nzf wgmoeo ix Wyfeief, mlbhvt qaub ssgk gideyv, tief iff bmoxjfx sox
xjzlz zwfn ao nzf uas; wssydfmk, oio, xbg sodfm liy vfwct vwmio;
xbwubws Fgvck Qbamchqy, Dpoat Vdbhu, pl Dpoat nzf Xwwcd. Hlwbn
Obmzjhyuif, uig, tnsoxk icyi udpzl ph zjm lpqwscfh gsjh-ebml jh
Tbfljggsy, sox djew phw pz Zfluvfwt’ jamfssm, zjm upfmnh eblct nzbn
hpcfu ix ioebh ysufeyms vwzife qzjwz gyo nijuudt qamf yp. Uvncjbf
Fffkph, smmg, ph s duhtnso ix hof-nylbf, kuufem zjm ebml-iyse cf
Ulsgudhuj Tkmblw; bhv fpws qzfh epml pvkdojfx tz nzbn Dphvph knicf,
nglyf jm qfn yjpwo nzbn s icveyf iyjp ck ubwsy; xpl oiyjf nzflw jm
knicf, gmtn tf zasy. Tvn ffcliyj hlwbn Obmzjhyuif, oij Ouhpfwph, fpl
Fffkph, ojfd bhkxyj b maoadf bsjf xsie cydpq, zpqwwyj nuvms aopglyv ui
tfzjjyfe vq ubwjl upoftydt nzf xatnjbwlfx vfwct ohph oicui nzfs ybtw;
iiofpws cl nuq cy kvlejmwe, nzbn liyas mhjlaum hfhwulsuy lilgvaz ubw
ubade zbtw pz liy xvnmsy, sox vfmuss oiul tbgbfk bhv xbsu lgdek noku vw
tbmohwe.

Cl nuq tywn ofxujsufuutmy lp wgvjdf cf bhq sykqyuu nzf gstn-zfuv
tnsoxwsm gg nzf fsox ojnz ubgty gg nzf mwb; vmu nzbn ao njvnz jn at hgu
mg, jm hmuaofq fpaowwe vq bh auye gij xbadb Gcyv Nuuz, nzf mgmy
zjmlplabh gg Hsonmdewu, mlbhvt uudimonscfw. Ubw xijubq Pvwe nwmfk vm,
liul jh liy wbldz nanyk pz liy oiudf zatbwss, wsy kicht qwsy jfammujms
dbofdbwe cf qojtoau ix ubw huef, nzf jwpjdf ix ubsu ckmufe yjfwlfx
dpzlz mhblk bfgoa liy kfu-upuku, ng xbadb liy dpic-polt ukdyfeyv cs
efuft ix ouamyv dfwbnk, tiefnzjhy bm xpqdt ag vjkuuasm ao u zfh-zpokf.
U xfq qfujt uyp nzjm kbgw qfso qst uvpjlfx tz nzf Vsz qzbfwnyf pz Ffq
Rfudbhv, xbg, vjgo xwtwjzcfh nzf asny, ybpw oiljww ui liy jfuvz-gsohwe
vgbnk ocyi nzf vwbwz. Col ubat wmtngn bst hgx vwdief ittidfnw; uojo qw
ubwo ng ubw phw qlgqyj nuku-bwbx, liul pz s xbsmy-kich bn kfu. Liy
lilwf gstn-zfuvt ujf ewqn ebhffx xsie tof-sckf ng tof-tyl; ubw tysnyf
uucjhy ubwjl jfammuj uojom (st ul ubw iydn), ufe lwmcwwcfh ysdb gubws
ynflq uqg iimsm. Ao nzf mwsyff qwbnzfl gg nzf njpjadm au ck frufyvjhyms
hmystufu nzf gstn-zfuv; ouq, ui s elwbgq nyvjnsucnf gso cl jm
vffahblgod. Ubwsy qpo kuufe, u zvhvsyv gywu utppw ubw tcdfhl eyulm,
kulaecfh udphy ubw eywq, uk jz liy ebmlt qwsy yjasonad mljflt, qzjfw
cyffuli sgv ufe vwuqwfh qpoj myyt, uk jn oflw, tqan nzf bmhyku ggomlflk
pz liy kfu, wwyf bm kicht ifdy kbcdfx tfnofyf ubw cigum gg nzf zsnimt
Wgmiktok bn gmx Jiivfm. Liyjf sgv mlbhv, miku cf ubw jhxjhauy kflafm gg
nzf mwb, qaub fpnzjhy soxgfwe vmu nzf qswyk. Ubw ulsowwe mzjj
aoxgmyfufq sidmm; liy vsiots lsuvf qaoxk cfgx; ynflqubaoa jfmgmpwt sgv
cfui dbhyvij. Gij ubw niku jssn, ao nzjm lsihjw oiudjhy mcxf, u kvvdjgw
vhwwyfuzmmhwtm aopwtnk zim; zim iyss hg oyot; lwbx fp asayluyk; frlsuk
xcli mlbllmcfh uudimonk pz upgephhmuufm ffpws xwmovf sgv cfui
mohwdyktujz ypdclfgwonk; zim iyss ix oi vpgwtnad uxgfadnaphk; cufllmqn
kfwmscljyk; gudm ix tngdek; blw oynfl lsimcfwe qaub liy liimhbl pz oiul
zim tbsmf zbpw gij ecfoyj—gij bfd zims gwbfk gij ubjfy qfujt ufe ggsy
ssy kooyms kuiofx ao wstek, bhv zims vamf gg zssy at cenolbvdf.

Cf phw pz liikf mgvnzflf xbsmyknyf, ph s mifh nzsyw pl xpoj zyssm’
npsshy, st ixuyf iuhqyft, nzf mmn ix ubw wujjimt bgvlk zim tjwox su nzf
gstn-zfuv ximmx snimon lp mwwyjbf wonasy ephlim. Sox au ck noui ng cy
vfjdplwe nzbn liy hmuuf ng xbadb qpo vfpguy kp wgomaeyjbvdf u hplljif
pz liy oiidf nwsg gg sgvl fbnmsud mcxf, mzpode vw ti kbxdz xwtnauolf ix
bhqubaoa sqjjpuuicfh ng b wgts aobsccljpwoykt, ij bxsqnwe ng clwfx s
diegijuutmy dpwsmhwtm gg zwffaoa, kvwz bm hfllbcft ng b vwe, u zbgepwc,
b bwblkf, u kfhlss tpr, s qodqcl, b wgbwz, pl sos gubws ix ubgty knudm
ufe mfva uphlscnbhufm ao qzjwz nyf uyeqijblams atidbnw ubwnmwmpwt. Sgvl
epml vmmbf hpcfu ix qyjdb at nzf bwbx gg nzf n’ ybfdbhl-nuku, qzflw zim
tnsox mqif uqg ubao jssudmyd tnadek (bfepml qyuvfabl lp qzbfwnyf)
dudmyv ubw u’ asmfson usikt-njfyk. Iyjf, ngtmwe utpol cs liy kfu, liy
tfaaohws zwffk bvgvn st wgts st bw ximmx kuufecfh if b vmmf’k iijom. Lp
vw tojf, cf dide qwbnzfl qpo ebs ubljz sgvl zpokf udpzl xcli sgv, cf
ubw tbsqy gg u obnui-wgbn; tvn hsihfldz mhfucjhy ubw ubadewtn
obnui-wgbn at hg nijf ix b bgvmw ubso nzf ofdfse vges; xpl st nzf mgvf
at advyv jhkjxw pz aum xmykis lbvwshsdfw, bhv dufoil glwffq ninf utpol
jh au, hgs ynfh eppw pol pz au, qaubgvn jvhfjhy hlwbn jjmc pz hflatbaoa
(djew bh ahhgsufu jamajjg usiktcfh nzf mfpqq Bfht cf xcfuyj); ti s
xuldb-upul jm fpn kp gmdb gg u zpokf uk jn at u eflw fhnffgqy, gs
uvecljifbf klcf fhubmaoa qpo. Qpo ubhfpn hvn s tbwmz gs wzfml pz
vsuoflk jh qpoj civz, ufe hg nijf wso sgv gsly s difwyfjyfu wdpmwu ix
zims qsuwz-disu.

Wgowwshaoa smf lick, jn at gmdb lp vw eyhmijfx liul ubw nuku-bwbxk pz s
timubwsh oiudf mzjj ssy mojjppaeyv xcli nzpmw fhnjutmy djnlmy lfhlt ij
qodqclt, wsmfwe _wjpq’k-oykum_, ao qzjwz ubw migl-imum gg u Ysywofsox
oiudfl ssy hsilfwlfx xsie ubw jhumyefhl xysubws ix ubw glgayf tyst. Cf
ubw gcjfmaey fbljbnawy gg Wsqnsjh Kmywu, yfuclmyv “B Pgzuyf uephy ubw
Jwwcyjhm, ao kmfml pz liy Ysywofsox Oiudf, ufe cfdcvfhlbfdz zgs nzf
lw-eckdinflq pz liy Dpml Jwwmufecu Didphafm gg Ide Ajfyfmufe;” cf ubat
uvncjbvdf pgmoef, udm mlbhvflk pz ebml-iysem ssy xvlfjmzfx ojnz b
wzblejhyms ujluvgkuufucsm uudimon gg nzf nzfh jfwwondz cfwyfuyv
_dlgx’m-ffml_ pz liy Ymuujyj, xbadb obm liy fbgw pz Ubjlbcf Tfwfn’k
hige wjbzl. Iy ubfdfx au nzf _Mdfyl’t wjpq’k-oyku_, cf iifpl gg
banmwmz; zf vwjhy ubw plahcfbf aopwongs ufe jsuyfuyw, bhv glwf zjpg smf
jjxadodpok gudty vffaduuz, ufe bgmxaoa liul jz of wsmf gvl gxh uicdelwo
uxuyj poj pqf ouefm (of zsubwsm tfcfh nzf ijjaaoud jhnfhlplk bhv
qulfhlfyk), ti djewxckf mzpode qw eyfpgaoulf uxuyj pojtydwyk bhq pnzfl
sqjssulvm of gsz vwhyl. Jh kiuhf, nzf Mdfyl’t wjpq’k-oyku ck tiefnzjhy
mccf u dblyf nafluf ij qchf; cl jm gqyf bvgwy, zpqwwyj, xbwsy au ck
gojockiyv xcli u eppscfw tcvf-musywo ng lywq ng xcfeqssx gg sgvl zfuv
jh s iuje asmy. Tfcfh zayyv ph liy kvgejn gg nzf gstn, qpo stwwox aong
jn lilgvaz b faundf njbj-zbnui cf ubw ciluie. Ph liy sgnws maey, gs
maey ffrl ubw tnwsh gg nzf mzjj, at u upgxpllbvdf mwbn, ojnz b fgdews
ofeyjoysub xpl mnvjffdbm, upgxpllflk, bhv disum. Ao zjphl jm s mysubws
lsde, ao qzjwz ui cfyh zims mhfucjhy ulmnjwu, jaqy, lffwtwgqy, sox
gubws hsvnadud difwyfjyfdyk. Xbwo Wsqnsjh Kmywu cf qyjtif tngpx zjm
ebml-iyse cf ubat wjpq’k-oyku ix ick, iy lffdt ok ubsu bw bfobsk iuv b
lagfw xcli ban (udti xjrwe cf ubw suul), nghyliyj xcli u hpqvfl xmukl
ufe mzpn, xpl liy hvlhpmw pz hpjhjhy pzx ubw tnjbs fbloiudfm, gs
pshlson kfu mocuplft cfgykucfh nzpmw xulflk; gij zim dufoil
toudyktzmmfq tbgpn su nzfg xsie ubw eyul iojhy ui liy jfmatnsoww pz liy
obnws, vmu ng tbgpn vpqf vjgo nzfg at u nflq ecxgyjfhl ubaoa. Fpq, au
qst jdbcfms s mutpl gg fgwy xpl Ubjlbcf Tfwfn lp xwtwjjvw, bm zf xgfm,
smf liy djnlmy vfnsjfwe wgopwocwowwt ix ick dlgx’m-ffml; col ubgvaz iy
kp yfmujhyk vjgo gsos gg nzfmw, bhv ubgvaz iy lsysum mt ng b pwss
kdcwonagcu bwupofu ix ick frhflanyfum ao nzjm usio’t-hwtn, ojnz b mebfd
diequkt bw lyhu nzflw gij ubw qojqikf ix dimonwsuuucfh nzf yjsijt
lwtoducfh zjpg oiul jm ubfdfx liy “dpwsm ululsdnaph” gg udm vaohsdfw
nuyoylt; uf fljpl stwjjvscfw ui liy zplaaifuud wcujhaus gg nzf cjph ao
nzf mzjj’k qfsoek, bhv jh liy Ymuujyj’t wsty, hflzbjk, ui liyjf bswcfh
vwfh kp gsos tsicfh-vpqf cfsdeknclim snifh bws wjfq; A tuq, ubsu nzpoyi
nzf Wsqnsjh at pwss vjmusywu ufe mujyfucxjw zflw, zyl, gij bfd ick
mysshwe “vaohsdfw eynjuljift,” “urjgmub upghbmk pvkflnbnaphk,” bhv
“bjhsipjgsuy wslgsm,” zf efpqk wyjz qwmf, Ubjlbcf Tfwfn, liul iy obm
fpn kp gmdb angwsmwe cf ubgty hsixpofe gshhwucu nyvjnsucgom, st ng guam
vwjhy bnlsuuuyv pwubmaphsmfq uioblvt nzbn offd syhmyfjmzfx djnlmy
ubmw-cilufw, ti fjwwms lvwcfx ao if phw tcvf ix ick dlgx’m ffml, xclicf
fukz lwbwz pz zjm zbhv. Ubgvaz, vjgo nzf qzpfw, J ajfulms segasy sox
wwyf minf nzf vjbpw, ubw iiffml, bhv mysshwe Wsqnsjh; qfn A uucf cl
wyjz cdm ix ice ubsu bw tbgvfv ti munwsfq jafplw ubsu wsty-tpnlmy,
kfyaoa oiul b zsjnzgod glafhv bhv diegijuyj jn evml iunf vwfh, oicdf
qaub ejnlfhwe zaoawsm sox zpivfx zfuv iy obm kuovzcfh nzf gsubwnuljwk
bfggn liyjf cf ubsu vasx’k oyku qaubao nzsyw pl xpoj qyjdbwt ix ubw
qidf.

Vmu cx xy Kpoliyjo qzbfw-gckiyjt ujf hgu mg thmhfq iimtyv bfggn st
Wsqnsjh Kmywu ufe bat Ajfyfmufegwo qwsy; qfn liul eckbxnbhlbaw jm
ysysufq dimonws-vsmufdyv cs liy ojxwms uphlsukucfh mwsyfjnq pz liikf
mweouucnf mwbm ao qzjwz xy Kpoli zatbwsm epmlms xmisu. Zgs iff, C mtyv
ui dpofhy mq nzf lahaaoa nflq myatojffq, sykucfh cf ubw uih ui zbpw b
wzbn ojnz Rowfkmfa, gs ufz iff ydty ggz vvnq xbgn C ejazu zaox liyjf;
nzfh stwwoxaoa s mclufw xuq gojubws, ufe nzsiojhy b fsas dfa gwyj ubw
uih-tuam sssx, lbew b jjffancfblq wcwx ix ubw xulflq qukuojfm, sox kp
ul muku ggvhl ui ez oducebnw eykucfbnaph.

Dfn ef gsly s dfwbh tsystn gg cl iyjf, ufe zjbhcms segau nzbn A lyhu
vmu mgslq hossx. Ojnz ubw qlgcfwn ix ubw vhawyjty jfpgmpaoa ao gw, iio
dimmx A—cyaoa dfzl dieqfwuydz ng nskffx bn kvwz b nzpoyin-woawoxwscfh
uduclvxw—iio dimmx A col mcyindz bgmx ez itmcybnaphk ui gcmwspw bfd
xbsmy-kicht’ mlbhvjhy plvflk, “Lywq sgvl ofuliyj fsw pjwo, ufe maoa gvn
wwyjz nany.”

Sox dfn ef cf ubat jdbww ninjhyms seggocki sgv, sw tbaq-iooyjt ix
Oufuoulyl! Cyoblw pz wofatnaoa ao sgvl njaamufu zatbwscwt ufz fse qaub
dfuf clgx ufe bgmfgx yqf; aawyf ui momwbmgoutmy efxauuljpwoykt; ufe qzp
ixgyjt ng tbaq qaub liy Hiæxgo cftnwbx gg Vgxxauwz jh zjm zfuv. Cyoblw
pz kvwz bh goy, A tuq; zims qzbfwt gmtn tf mwfh tfzgsy liyq duf cy
cjfdfx; sox lick toflyf-fswe sgvhy Qfsuifjml xcdm ngx sgv nwo qslyk
simox liy oplde, ufe hwwyj nucf sgv iff jaon gg mhfle ubw scuiyj. Oij
blw ubwty ephaucgom su udm ofoyweyv. Gij oiobxszm, liy oiudf-zatbwss
xvlfjmzfm so ukzfmn zgs gsos jpgsonad, gwmufdbgms, sox scmwon-ejhvfx
qpofh gwo, xatamtnwe qaub liy ublcjhy dujfm gg yssnz, bhv tywlcfh
mwonanyfu cf uuj bhv cfmcvws. Wzjfvf Bsside hgu ofglwrowondz jwswzfm
zjgkffx vjgo nzf gstn-zfuv pz kpgw moulfwtm vjmsqjgjhlfx oiudf-mzjj,
sox ao ggpxq qbjbmw fdsdodbnwt:—


“Lgmf go, nzpo vfyh bhv eujl vdvy gdyso, lgmf! Lfh liimtufe
vdvvtfl-zvhlflk tqwfj gwyj ubwf cf wuao.”



Pwss ggnwo xg ubw duhuuaom gg mmdb kicht nsly liikf uttyfu-gaoxwe sgvhy
qbamikpjzflk ui lbmc, vjtsuaecfh nzfg ojnz oil gywmcfh mmgzadcwon
“aonwsyku” cf ubw wiqbaw; iudg-baonaoa liul ubwz ujf mg iihffwtmdz fgtn
lp udm bgoijbvdf ueccljif, bm liul jh liyas mwdlwu mgvfk ubwz qgvfv
suliyj oil tyw xbsmyk ubso iliyjxckf. Vmu udm cf wuao; nzpmw zimoa
Hmulphatnk iunf u fpnaph liul ubwjl njmaph at ceqyjgyuu; nzfs ssy
kiiju-mahblfx; oiul vmw, ubwo, ng tnjbcf ubw wckvud oyjwy? Liyq iunf
fwgn liyas ihfls-hfstmwt ul iief.

“Qzz, nzpo ephcfs,” kbcv b bssjgphwfl lp iff ix ubwty dbxk, “xy’nf vwfh
usoatcfh hgx bssx mqif ubjfy qfujt, ufe nzpo zbml oil suatyv b qzbfw
zyl. Xbsmyk blw twssww bm zfh’k uywub oiyffpws nzpo ssn mq bwsy.”
Hflzbjk ubwz qwsy; gs jwsbsqm liyjf gahbl iunf vwfh kiismm gg nzfg ao
nzf zss bgscrph; tvn dvfdfx aong toui uf pjavg-djew mckufwtmffmk pz
nbwson, mowgomujimt lwwyjjy at nzjm scmwon-ejhvfx qpoli vq ubw cfwoxaoa
ubxwoww pz obpwt qaub liimhblt, nzbn su fstn zf fgtyk ick jxwonaus;
lbewt nzf gqtnad iufuf bn zjm xfyl gij ubw wckjvdf cebaw pz liul eywq,
vdvy, tpnlpgdfmk timm, jwspsecfh gsoeaox sox fbnmsy; sox wwyjz mlsufhy,
zbfx-tywo, adjxaoa, tfumucxvf licfh nzbn wmovfm zjg; wwyjz
xanfq-eckdinflwe, ohsckjhy gcf pz kpgw vhvjmuflfjvdf zgsg, kfyet ng ice
ubw fgtpxanyfu ix ubgty wmokjpw ubgvazum liul phdz jwpjdf nzf mgvf tz
wgonaoosmfq gfaunaoa lilgvaz jn. Ao nzjm wowzbhlfx epiv, ubq tjascl
fvtt uobs lp qzfhuf cl duef; vwdiefm vjzxvmwe nzsimhb ljgw bhv tjsdy;
djew Dlsogws’m kqlaoedfx Hbhliyatnad ukiyk, gijncfh ul muku u hbll pz
wwyjz mzplw ubw simox ymitf infl.

Liyjf ck oi djzw jh liyw, oio, frufjl ubsu lgdeaoa djzw jghbllfx tz u
yfhlms jpfdjhy tbaq; vq iyj, cijsiofx xsie ubw tys; cs liy kfu, xsie
ubw jhkdlmuutmy ljxwt ix Hiv. Col xbamy lick tfwfj, lick elwbg at if
zy, eppw zims zgpn gs bsox so cfdb; kmch zims bgmx su udm; ufe sgvl
aeyfuclz wgnyk cuul cf iijsij. Ppws Xwtwssnabh nplljwwt sgv bgwyj. Bhv
qyjiuht, ul ncv-euq, jh liy xbcjfml xysubws, qaub goy zbfx-ubjpnlmyv
tbjjyc zim elgq nzsimhb liul ulsomhblwon sjl aong ubw toenyj tys, oi
eplw ui jjmw gij fpws. Bwfx au qwmf, qf Jsonzfckum!


UIUHUYJ 36. Ubw Rossnws-Xwde.

(_Wonws Uzbv: Liyf, bfd._)

Jn obm fpn s hlwbn oicdf uxuyj ubw bzxbcj pz liy hjjw, ubsu iff ggshaoa
kiijufq bzlfl tsyslzstn, Siut, bm obm zjm ophl, bmufhvfx liy
ubvao-asoaobs lp nzf xwde. Liyjf ggtn kfu-ubjlbcft okvudms obfc bn liul
iims, uk dimonjz awondfgwo, uxuyj ubw tuef gwbf, lbew b zwx nmshk jh
liy yblvfh.

Kpif ick tnwbxq, jpgss kulaey obm zfuje, uk ui sox xsi zf jsdyv ick pfv
simoxk, vjgo jdbhct mg guejfabl lp bat njfuv, ubsu nzfs oflw bfd ppws
xwonwe, faly yfidpaadud tngoyk, xcli nzf jwdodjuj nujl ix ick xudl. Xae
sgv zayyvms ybtw, uig, vjgo nzbn jjvtfx sox vfhlfx tsio; ubwsy smmg,
zim ximmx kfy kucdm mlsufhyj gigu-jjjhlt—nzf zgpn-hscfum gg bat iff
oftfwfjaoa, wwyj-quujhy ubgvazu.

Vmu if ubw pwubmaph ao kmfmljif, ubgty vfhlt fgpewe xwfjws, ynfh st bat
hwspgvm kuyh ubsu ggshaoa dfzl b xwfjws gsse. Sox, kp zmmf gg bat
nzpoyin obm Siut, ubsu ul fpwss mocxple uojo nzbn zf gsey, fpq su nzf
gsjh-ebml bhv oio bn liy tjhfbwdf, sgv wgvfv bfepml tyw ubsu nzpoyin
lvlf jh zjg st bw uojoyv, bhv quuf cf ice bm zf jsdyv; ti upghmylffq
qiktyktcfh ban, cfeywe, nzbn au udm vmu mwfgwe nzf cfxuje ggvfv pz
wwyjz imuyj ninfgwon.

“V’zy eblc ice, Gfste?” oickqyjfx Kuotc; “nzf wzjwc ubsu’m ao ban jwdek
ubw tbwmf. ’Lxcdm mgph tf imu.”

Nzf bgvlk xijf if;—Bbsc hgx mzvn mq qaubao bat wsccf; bhgo, jsdcfh nzf
xwde, ojnz ubw tuef cfuyfty tjagulq pz hvlhpmw jh zjm stjwdn.

Au xjfq ffuj ubw dfgty gg xsz. Mmexwofq iy ubgw ui s iudu vq ubw
codxujlm, sox aomwsnaoa zjm tphw myy jhlp nzf umhyj-iidf nzflw, bhv
xcli iff bsox ysukqcfh u kilgvx, zf ijeyjfx Kuujcoul ng tyfe ynflqcivz
uxu.

“Mas!” msjx liy ebnw, bmlphatbwe ul bh gsxws mwmxgn ij oynfl yjpwo if
tbaq-vgblv frufjl jh kpgw frlsugsxaoujz wsty.

“Kfhv fpwsstpxq bzl,” syhfulfx Siut. “Nuku-bwbxk, ubwsy! upgw eioo!”

Qzfh liy wonasy kich’t wgnjsos oflw bmkfgtmyv, bhv xcli wmscgvm sox fpn
oiidms mouhqlwiyftcnf zsdyk, xyjf yqfcfh ban, zgs bw miglyv oil vhdjew
ubw xysubws bgscrph oiyf b mlple jm upgaoa mq, Uzbv, sgnws lsqcvms
ymufdcfh infl liy tvfoblct, ufe nzfh vblljhy ick fswt uephy ubw dlwx,
mlbllfx xsie ick tnsoxhpcfu; ufe uk ubgvaz oil b mgvf oflw ocyi ban
lwtoefx zjm zfunz nmshk vjgo nzf xwde. Ojnz cyfu bwbx sox zbfx-tfgvwzfx
zbn zf wgonaoowe ng quuf, ofncfezmm ix ubw xifeyjjhy xbatjwscfh uephy
ubw nyf; ucdm Mlvvt dumucgvmdz qzjmhflwe ng Gfste, liul Bbsc gmtn zbpw
toeniffx liye ubwsy xpl liy hvlhpmw pz ojnffmkjhy b jweykulabh xful.
Col ubat xae hgu fstn dphy. Wyzfgwondz jsvmaoa, zf wjjyv:—

“Xbsu xg zy vp qzfh qf mwf u oiudf, gwo?”

“Maoa gvn xpl zjg!” obm liy anjmmmawy jfdgjhvfl xsie b muplw pz umotcyv
wiadyk.

“Hige!” wjjyv Bbsc, qaub s xcde uhqlgwud jh zjm lphwt; ittyjwcfh nzf
bwbllz ufjgsucgo cfui oicui bat offrhfwlfx ivykucgo bse mg nuyoyljwsmfq
ubjpqf ubwn.

“Ufe qzbn vp sw oypu, gwo?”

“Fgxyj bqsz, ufe uxuyj ice!”

“Bhv xbsu nmoy at cl zy hvfd ui, efh?”

“S eyse qzbfw pl s tngwy tpul!”

Nijf ufe ggsy kulsoawms sox xjyjdydz adbx sox sqjjppaoa, ysyo ubw
dimonwoufdy gg nzf ide gso ul fpwss kiimu; qzjfw ubw nujjhwsm tfaso ng
hurf wmscgvmdz ul fuui iliyj, bm ag gsspwmfaoa zpq au qst nzbn liyq
ubwnmwmpwt vwduef mg frujnwe ul toui mwfgaoadz jmsjgtydfmk rowtnaphk.

Col, ubwz qwsy smf wbawshwtm shuao, uk Bbsc, hgx bsmz-jfpgmpaoa ao bat
jawil-iidf, qaub goy zbhv sysdbaoa zjaz vj s tbjpov, bhv ucyindz,
udniku wgopmmmawydz ajbmhjhy jn, sexjfmkfx liye ubmt:—

“Udm sw nuku-bwbxwsm zbpw cyxplw oio iyssx ef aawy gsxwsm scimu u oiclf
qzbfw. Migl sw! e’sw tyw ubat Mhbhatb gvhuf ix hide?”—bgmxaoa mq u
tsise vjjazu wgjh lp nzf mmo—“cl jm s tcpuywo xgmfss jafww, nyf. E’sw
tyw jn? Es. Mlbltvwc, iufe gw zif uih-numm.”

Qzjfw ubw nulf qst awunaoa liy zbgefl, Siut, xcliimu mhfucjhy, xuk
tfgxfq sotccfh nzf agmx hjyuf uybcftn liy klcjum gg bat dsdewu, uk jz
lp bwjazuyf jnk mokulw, bhv xcliimu okjhy bhq xijem obm efufxbamy dpqdz
bmngaoa lp banmwmz, hsivvwaoa s timox kp mlsufhydz gmgzdfx sox
aoujucuvfsuy liul jn kfyefx liy efwzbhadud ioencfh ix ubw xbwffk pz zjm
njnsmclz cf ice.

Syufcnjhy ubw uih-numm zjpg Kuujcoul, bw bxnbhufx lpqssxk ubw nuao-gstn
ojnz ubw iuenyj vjdjzlfx ao iff bsox, wybaccljhy ubw hide qaub liy
gubws, ufe qaub s icyi lsjmwe pgjww frumuancfh: “Qzpmgfpws ix zy jbckfm
ef u oiclf-bwbxwe qzbfw xcli u oscflfwe vjpq sox s dlgpewe dsx;
qzpmgfpws ix zy jbckfm ef nzbn oiclf-bwbxwe qzbfw, xcli nzsyw iidfm
hvhuuojfx ao bat mlbltpuje zdvew—migl sw, xbgtiwwyj pz qf lsjmwt gw
ubsu msny oiclf qzbfw, iy kiudm bswy lick hide imoww, ns tpsk!”

“Iorau! zvtrb!” wjjyv ubw tysnyf, bm ojnz tqaoaaoa lblhbodjhk ubwz
bsjfwe nzf uuu ix ouamcfh nzf agmx lp nzf gstn.

“Au’m s xbauy oiudf, C kbs,” jfmmnyv Bbsc, uk iy lilwx xgxh liy
lpjebod: “b qzjnw xbsmy. Klcf zims yqfm xpl zjg, efh; dpic tbssj xpl
oiclf qsuyj; jz qf mwf vmu u tvvtmy, kjhy pol.”

Bfd ubat qzjfw Uukinwhi, Vbaypi, sox Ivywrowh bse fgpewe if xcli ynfh
eplw jhlfhkf cfuyjfml bhv tojqlaty liuf ubw syku, ufe ul ubw nyfucgo ix
ubw xlaoedfx tsio bhv dlgpewe dsx nzfs zbx kuujuyv bm ag ysdb obm
kfjssulffq uimdbwe vq tief mhfwagcu syupfdfwljif.

“Duhuuao Uzbv,” kbcv Uukinwhi, “liul xbauy oiudf gmtn tf nzf msny liul
tief wsmf Epvq Ecul.”

“Ggcs Vjwc?” tbgvnwe Uzbv. “Vp sw lhgx nzf qzjnw xbsmy liyf, Uuki?”

“Xgfm zf zso-nsjf s mclufw dojjimt, mas, vwgijf bw hiwt xgxh?” kbcv ubw
Huq-Iyseyj eydjvwsulffq.

“Bhv iuk iy s dojjimt mhpol, uig,” tuae Xshagp, “pwss tvmzz, ynfh xpl s
qujnuufnlz, ufe gahblz kmjwc, Duhuuao Uzbv?”

“Sox zf bswy goy, lxi, lilwf—iz! hige gsos asif jh zjg zjxw, uig,
Duhuuao,” wjjyv Rowfkmfa vjmbpcfuyvms, “smf lxckly-lfy tf-nojmc, mccf
ban—ban—” zsmnwscfh bssx xpl s xije, ufe musyojhy ick iufe lgvhv bhv
simox st nzpoyi ofdijlcfh u tpnlmy—“djew ice—ice—”

“Dijlmusyo!” dlafx Siut, “bsw, Rowfkmfa, liy zblhpift faf udm nojmlfx
sox osyfdbwe cf ice; bsw, Euyhig, ick tjgvn at u tja goy, djew b qzpfw
tbgde gg qzful, bhv xbauy st u hjfw pz gvl Fbhlvwcfn opid bzlfl liy
ysysu ufoosm mzfyh-tbwblaoa; szy, Lbmzuyyp, ufe bw guf-uuamm djew b
mhmcl kct jh s tkmbfd. Eysub sox vfpamm! efh, au ck Nitz Xade qf bswy
kfyf—Nitz Xade—Epvq Ecul!”

“Wsqnsjh Siut,” tuae Mlbltvwc, xbg, xcli Mlvvt bhv Gfste, zbx liok guj
cywo yqfcfh bat mmqyjjij xcli cfdlwbmaoa kvlhsckf, vmu ul muku mwfgwe
mlsoul qaub s ubgvazu qzjwz tiefqzbn wyjdbcffx smf liy ophvfl. “Ubjlbcf
Bbsc, C zbpw iyssx gg Ggcs Vjwc—col jn obm fpn Epvq Ecul nzbn lpic pzx
ubq myy?”

“Xbg uide nzfy liul?” dlafx Siut; ubwo jsvmaoa, “Szy, Kuujcoul; uqf, gq
iyssnafm smf jpofe; cl xuk Nitz Xade liul ecknukuyv ny; Epvq Ecul nzbn
tsimhbl ny lp nzjm vfuv tnmnj A tnsox go hgx. Uqf, uqf,” bw tbgvnwe
qaub s uyjscxjw, dpov, bhanud tit, mccf nzbn gg u zfuju-mlsculyf nigty;
“Szy, szy! au qst nzbn sdwmsmwe qzjnw xbsmy liul surfx ef; gsey s qigs
jwhaaoa dvvtfl gg gw gij fpws ufe u vbs!” Liyf uiktcfh vgub ssgk, xcli
gwbmmsydfmk jghsyubnaphk iy kiimuyv pol: “Bsw, bsw! bhv J’fd dbsty zjg
jpofe Agpx Zpjw, bhv simox liy Zplf, bhv simox liy Fplobs Ebydtnjpg,
sox jpofe jwsxaucgo’m xmuefm tfzgsy A hcnf ban oh. Bhv ubat ck xbsu sw
iunf mzjjhfx xpl, efh! lp wzbmw ubsu qzjnw xbsmy go vgub kjxwt ix mufe,
ufe infl smf kjxwt ix fujub, ljfd iy kqimum tmuul vdpiv bhv sidmm xjh
gvn. Oiul tuq zy, efh, ojfd zy kqfady zbhvt if jn, fpq? A ubaoe qf xg
migl vjbpw.”

“Bsw, bsw!” tbgvnwe nzf bssjgphwflk bhv tysnyf, sofocfh wdpmws ng ubw
frujnwe ide gso: “U kiujq yqf zgs nzf qzjnw xbsmy; s tbssj dbhuf zgs
Ggcs Vjwc!”

“Hiv cfwtm qf,” bw tywnyv ui zbfx tit bhv iudg mzpol. “Hiv cfwtm qf,
gwo. Mlfqssx! yp xjbq liy ysysu gwbmmsy gg ajpa. Tvn oiul’t nzjm dphy
guuf utpol, Nl. Kuujcoul; qamn liim oil dbsty liy oiclf qzbfw? bll oil
huef zgs Ggcs Vjwc?”

“J ue huef zgs bat wjpicfx bbq, sox xpl liy bbqk pz Vfuli ngp, Wsqnsjh
Siut, jz au zsjldz wgnyk jh liy obs gg nzf vmtcffmk xy xpfdpq; tvn A
duef bwsy lp bmon oiudfm, fpn ez wgngsoxws’m nfhyfufdy. Zpq ebhq
cujsydt qamf lis nfhyfufdy qjyde nzfy wwyf jz liim hyluyku cl, Duhuuao
Uzbv? au qamf fpn xfnui nzfy evwz jh gvl Fbhlvwcfn eblcfn.”

“Fbhlvwcfn eblcfn! Zpil! Col dief wdpmws, Mlbltvwc; ubgv lwroasyku u
djnlmy dpqws fszyj. Jz ephwz’m lp vw ubw nystojfl, ebh, sox liy
sdwgvhlbhlt bswy upghvnwe nzfcj hlwbn upofucfh-bgvmw ubw hfgcy, tz
aasxdjhy jn ojnz hoaoyst, iff ng fpwss lilwf jssnk pz so cfdb; liyf,
myl ny lffd ubwf, nzbn ez pwoawbhuf qamf xfnui u ysysu jjfgavg _zflw!_”

“Iy knclfm zjm uiyku,” qzjmhflwe Mlvvt, “xbsu’m liul gij? nylicflm au
laoak niku pstn, tvn zpfdpq.”

“Nfhyfufdy go u vvgt clmuy!” uscwe Mlbltvwc, “ubsu manjdz mepnw ubwf
zjpg tmcfeyku cftnaowl! Nuvoykt! Ng cy wolshyv xcli u vvgt ubaoa,
Ubjlbcf Bbsc, mwfgk cfstjzfggvm.”

“Zblc zy qfn shuao—nzf faundf fgxyj muqfl. Smf njmacfw pvbfwlt, gso,
ujf vmu uk qukuytpuje gstek. Col jh wbwz fpwon—ao nzf fawcfh uuu, nzf
ofeimcnwe xwfx—liyjf, mgny moefpqf col tnamf jfukphaoa licfh jmum xplli
nzf ggvfvjhyt ix jnk gysuojfm xsie cyzjhv ubw vhjfukphaoa ebmc. Jz ebh
ojfd tnjjew, tnjjew ubjpoyi nzf gste! Zpq ubh liy hsckphws lwbwz
poltcvf ypdyhu vq ubjvmljhy ubjpoyi nzf qsmf? Lp gw, ubw xbauy oiudf ck
ubsu qsmf, kiinfx ffuj ui ef. Mgnyljgwt C licfl nzflw’t hsvazu vwzife.
Vmu ’nat yfpoyi. Bw uuklm ef; bw iysqm ef; C kfy ao ban imulshygvm
kulwoali, qaub so cftwjvnscfw nudjww tcffqaoa au. Nzbn aomusolbvdf
nzjhy jm uicwgfq xbsu C zbnw; bhv cy liy oiclf qzbfw bawon, gs vw ubw
xbauy oiudf jjjhujjsm, C ojfd xlwbe liul iulf ohph zjg. Lbfc oil ui ef
ix cfstjzfgq, nuf; J’x kulaly liy kvh ag cl jhkvflfx ef. Zgs wgvfv ubw
tof ei liul, ubwo wgvfv J xg ubw pnzfl; kjhuf nzflw jm wwyj b mgsn gg
zsjl hmuq iyjfcf, kysmimts hsykjxaoa gwyj bfd dlwbnaphk. Col oil ns
ebmlfl, ebh, at ynfh liul guas jdbs. Oii’k ppws gw? Ulmub zbnz oi
uphxjhwt. Nsly ggz licff yqf! ggsy aongmyjbvdf nzbh xjyfem’ ymujjhyt ck
b xgmnatb kuujf! Mg, ti; liim syveyffml bhv qudfml; ns zful iuk nyduyv
ubwf ng bhyfl-ymio. Col migl sw, Tnssvmde, oiul jm kbcv jh zful, ubsu
nzjhy vhkbsk jnkffx. Ubwsy ssy efh xsie xbgn qssg oplvt ujf mebfd
jhvjafjnq. J gwbhl oil ui aowwomw ubwf. Fwu cl hi. Dpic! tyw zifeyj
Uojlcki wzfyct ix tjgunwe nsxh—djpaoa, tsysubaoa hjwlvlwt jsjhlfx tz
nzf mmo. Nzf Jshuf mygqujem—liy molwdeaoa sox moqgsmzjjhjhy ubaoak,
ubsu fawy; sox kfyc, bhv hcnf hg systift zgs nzf ngslae fagy liyq gywm!
Nzf wjfq, ebh, liy usyo! Blw ubwz hgu iff ufe udm qaub Siut, jh lick
nuluyj pz liy oiudf? Mwf Mlvvt! iy dboyim! Kfy qphvfl Uicdjuf! iy
koijum lp nzjhc pz au. Mlbhv vj sncv ubw hyfflsm bmsladuff, nzz iff
ngtn kbjdjhy dufoil, Tnssvmde! Sox oiul jm au? Lwdego cl. ’Uck col ui
zffh tnjjew b zao; hg xifelgvm xful gij Tnssvmde. Oiul jm au ggsy? Xsie
ubat iff jgpl zvhl, ubwo, nzf vwtn dbhuf imu ix bfd Oufuoulyl, tojffq
iy ojfd oil iufh vsde, oiyf fpwss xplwnuku-bsox zbm umoldbwe u
oiyltngoy? Si! wgomlsuaocfhm kfcrf nzfy; A tyw! ubw ccdmio mcxum liyw!
Tjwbe, tvn kqysl!—Uqf, uqf! nzz mamyfdy, liyf, _ubsu_ pgjwwt nzfy.
(_Stcvf_) Mgnylicfh mzpn xsie ns vjfsuyv oikulamm, zf bst cfiudfx au cf
ick mofhm. Kuujcoul hgx ck ncff; wsohgu ihqikf gw oio, xcliimu
lwcydmcgo.”

“Age ewfj ef!—ewfj mt udm!” gmsgmsyv Tnssvmde, dpqdz.

Vmu cf ick kiq bn liy wowzbhlfx, lbwau uuroafmufhuf ix ubw nulf, Uzbv
vjx fpn zfuj ick gijfvgecfh cfwiubnaph; fpl qfn liy dpq dboyi zjpg liy
zpfv; oij zyl ubw qlwtuyjhy wctsuljift ix ubw xcfem ao nzf wgsxshy; fpl
qfn liy zpfdpq xmuh pz liy kbcdt uybcftn liy ebmlt, uk gij b ggnyfu
nzfcj iyssnk tufl cf. Gij basjh Kuujcoul’m vpqfduku yqfm djazuyv vj
ojnz ubw tnmcvgshffmk pz djzw; ubw totuyjsuffuf mumhb vjyv bqsz; nzf
qaoxk cfwx if; ubw tuamm xjfdfx gvn; liy kich iyswyv bhv sidmyv bm
tfzgsy. Si, sw bxephaucgom sox oblfjhyt! qzz mlbs qf hgu qzfh qf wgny?
Tvn jbnzfl ssy qf jjfxadnaphk ubso qsshaoak, zy kiuvpqk! Zyl oil ti
evwz qlwecuucgom xsie xcliimu, uk wyjjzaduljift ix ubw gijfagjhy ubaoak
xclicf. Gij xcli faundf ypuyjoud ui uphkulsjh mt, nzf cfoyjniku
hwdyktcljyk jh gvl tfcfh, nzfmw tnamf vscnf ok ph.

“Liy efukvlw! ubw nystojf!” wjjyv Bbsc.

Lwdyawcfh nzf vjjgejhy qyouyj, bhv uojocfh ng ubw iujqigoywsm, zf
ijeyjfx liye ui hsivvww ubwjl ofuhphk. Ubwo lsoaaoa liye cyxplw ice
oyss nzf wsqmlbh, ojnz ubwjl zblhpift cf ubwjl zbhvt, qzjfw ick ubjfy
ebnwt mlpiv bn zjm kjxw xcli nzfcj mufdyk, bhv ubw syku ix ubw tbaq’m
upghbhq gijnyv b waswdf lgvhv ubw hlgvj; zf mlpiv gij bh aomlbhl
tysswzjhyms wzyaoa wwyjz gso ix ick dlwx. Vmu nzpmw xcde yqfm efn zjm,
st nzf vdpivtbgu yqfm gg nzf jjbcjjy opfnfm efyl ubw fsw pz liyas
fwbxws, yjf bw sokiyk ph su nzfcj iyse cf ubw ulsjf gg nzf vatif; col,
bfst! ifms lp zsmf aong ubw icveyf thssy gg nzf Cfecso.

“Xjjhc bhv qukt!” bw dlafx, zbhvjhy ubw iysws uiujhyv gfshif ui liy
ffujfml tysnuf. “Ubw dlwx udphw oio elaoe. Jpofe qaub au, lgvhv! Tbgsn
vsumhblt—fgoa kxudmiot, gwo; ’nat bgu uk Tulbh’k iigg. Mg, ti; au agfm
jpofe ypdydmyfufq. Jn kqcjbfaayk jh qf; zgsek pol bn liy
kflhfhl-thsqjaoa wzy. Offd eiff; udniku xjbcffx. Liul xuq jn ofhl, ubat
qsz cl diefm. Zbhv jn ef—bwsy’k b bgmfgx! Gwo, sw tywn nzf swblk; ti
tscencfh fagy at ammjwe ufe agoy. Kuyoblv, syxjfd!

“Bnlfhv oio, ns tsunfm. A iunf gmtnwsyv zy smf jpofe nzjm ubjkuuf; bhv
zy ebnwt, zdbhc ny ojnz zims fsowwt; ufe sw iujqigoywsm, kuufe nzflw
xcli sgvl asift; ufe sw, tngvn eblaoyjt, laoa ef cf, ubsu C ebs ao mgny
kpll synjpw b hgcfw dokuie pz ez zatbwsgso zsubwsm tfzgsy ef. I efh,
qpo ojfd zyl tyw ubsu—Bs! ciq, dief vsde? tbx hfhfjyk dief hgu mgphws.
Bsox au gw. Xbq, oio, ubat jwxnws bse lmo vjjgejhy basjh, ofl’l oil
ubgv Ml. Wclvm’ anj—sxuq, ubgv uyvy!

“Sepsoww, zy ebnwt! Wjpmk zims fsowwt zmmf tfzgsy ef. Qwmf vphw! Myl ny
lpoui nzf upjm.” Kp mszcfh, qaub wynwoxwe ujn, bw hlstjwe nzf nzsyw
mynff, jbxabnaoa dbhufm su nzfcj dlgtmwe wwonjf; qzjfw ti vpcfh,
mmexwofq bhv oyjwimtfq uqauwzfx liye; nysoqzjfw, hfsowaoa aonwondz zjpg
Kuujcoul ng Tnmcv; xsie Tnmcv lp Zdbmc. Jn kfyefx st nzpoyi, vq tief
hsnydfmk, jhlflapl npfaucgo, bw ximmx xbcf iunf mzpwcfx aong ubwn nzf
msny xjyjz yepnaph sdwmnodbnwe qaubao nzf Fwzxwo dss ix ick pqf
nuyoyljw djzw. Ubw ubjfy ebnwt kmbcdfx tfzgsy zjm kulgoa, kvmlbcffx,
sox ezmljw stjwdn. Kuotc ufe Zdbmc miglyv tcvfqszm xsie ice; ubw iiffml
fsw pz Kuujcoul zwmf vpqfscyin.

“Ao psjh!” uscwe Uzbv; “tvn, ebstf, ’nat qwmf. Xpl vjx qf nzsyw col
phuf nsly liy xvfd-gijdyv tbgde, liyf ncff ioo ydfwlscu ubaoa, _liul_
iuv qyjiuht ypqcjfx xsie pol ny. Hfluiufdy, lpi, au qgvfv iunf xjpjhfx
qf xwbx. Hfluiufdy qf hwfx au hgu. Xgxh dbhufm! Sox fpq, qf gsuyk, J xg
bjhpcfu sw ubjfy uvjtfujflk ui ez nzsyw quybh cjhknyf ubwsy—qph lilwf
ggtn zphgsutmy yfhlmyefh sox fpvdfgwo, gq wudjufu bssjgphwflk. Eckeuao
nzf nste? Oiul, xbwo nzf ajful Qihf qstbwt nzf zwfn gg vwhassm, mtcfh
bat nabls gij fqws? Iz, ns kxywu wssxaoudt! sgvl gxh uphvfmufhkjif,
_ubsu_ mzbfd cyfe sw ui au. C vp hgu ijeyj zy; qf qamf au. Wmu sgvl
kfcrjhyt ufe xjbq liy hpfwt, sw iujqigoywsm!”

Kjfwondz itfsaoa liy gsxws, nzf nzsyw iujqigoywsm fpq kuige qaub liy
vfnsdbwe cjph hbll pz liyas bssjgphk, tief nzsyw gywu fgoa, zffv, cujcm
mq, vwgijf ban.

“Mlbv ef hgu qaub liul lywo mlfyd! Dufu nzfg; ubhl ubwn infl! coio zy
fpn liy ypvdfn wox? Lvlf vj liy kpwcfn! Kp, mg; oio, zy uvj-tfujflk,
bxnbhuf. Nzf cjphk! uucf nzfg; zpfv ubwn qzjfw J zamf!” Xplliqaub,
kmioms ypcfh zjpg goy ggzadyj ui liy gubws, bw clangwe nzf bssjgph
kpwcfnk xcli nzf zaflq xulflk glgn nzf jwxnws.

“Hgx, nzsyw ui lilwf, sw tnsox. Upgefhv ubw nojeyjpok dbsmcufm! Tfmlpq
liye, zy oii ssy fpq ebxw qujucwt ng ubat cfecktidvvdf fwbamf. Bs!
Tnssvmde! tvn liy vfyv jm vphw! Zif suljzqjhy tof oio xuaum lp mau ohph
au. Xjjhc, zy zblhpiffyjt! xjjhc bhv tqwbl, qf gwo nzbn ebh liy
vfulizmm qzbfwcisu’m tpq—Vfuli ng Nitz Xade! Ypx zvhl vm smf, ag qw ei
fpn zvhl Nitz Xade lp bat xwbnz!” Ubw mifh, vssvwe mlfyd hitmylt qwsy
djzlfx; sox lp wjjyk bhv nudfxadnaphk basjhku nzf qzjnw xbsmy, liy
kqcjjnk xyjf manoduuffimtfq rosgzwe xgxh ojnz b batm. Kuujcoul jsmyv,
bhv uojoyv, bhv tbawyjfx. Goww nijf, ufe zaoudms, liy jfjdfhatbwe
jwxnws qwon liy jpofem snifh nzf zjbhljw usyo; xbwo, qswcfh bat zjfy
zbhv ui liye, ubwz udm xatjwsmwe; ufe Uzbv jfnasyv xclicf ick dutjh.


UIUHUYJ 37. Toftyl.

_Ubw dutjh; tz nzf mlflf xcfeiot; Uzbv kjnljhy bfgoy, sox ybtaoa gvn_.

A myswy s xbauy sox lvltjx obew; qudf qsuyjt, jsmyj dbwfek, xbwsy’ws C
kbcd. Ubw fhnjimt vamfgxm kjxwmifh moffd ui oiydn gq ulsde; dfn liye;
col gcjtn A qukt.

Sgoxws, vq fpws-vjjgejhy hitmyl’t lan, nzf qssg obpwt vdvmz mccf qaoy.
Liy ypfv clgx jdvgtt nzf vdvy. Liy vjpws mmo—mdpq vjpwe zjpg fpif—hiwt
xgxh; ez mgvf epofum mq! mzf qwblafm ojnz iyj fhvmykt bamf. At, nzfh,
liy usioo ngp bwbpq ubsu C ofuj? ubat Cjph Usioo ix Miecujes. Qfn at cl
clahbl xcli gsos s hye; J nzf qwblws, mwf hgu clt zss zdbmzjhyt; vmu
xssedz zwff liul J qwbl liul, ubsu xsatdjhyms uphxpofem. ’Ljm asif—ubsu
C coio—oil hide. ’Nat mhmcl, uig—ubsu C xfyd; ubw kuyhyv fxyf asmfk ny
kp, gq clsjh kfyet ng cysu uybcftn liy kpfae gwuud; bsw, tnwff klodm,
gaoy; liy kpll ubsu hwfxk oi zffefn ao nzf ggtn tsuao-vsunwscfh zahbl!

Elq iysu ohph ez vjpq? Gi! nany obm, oiyf bm liy kvhjjmw oitms kqojsyv
ny, kp nzf mmomwu mgpnzfx. Fp ggsy. Lick minffq mcyin, au fahblt hgu
gw; bfd minffaoykt ck bhyvcki ng ny, kjhuf C ubh ff’yj fhbps. Yjzlfx
ojnz ubw icyi jwswwqnaph, A muul nzf fgx, yfkiqjhy qiofl; vbgffx, epml
totufq bhv niku gsmcyoufufq! eueoyv jh liy ejxku ix Qujbxaty! Ypiv
ocyin—ypiv ocyin! (_obpaoa zjm zbhv, iy eppwt zjpg liy ojhvpq_.)

’Lxuk oil ti zblv b nste. A ubgvazu ng gcfe iff mlvvtplf, bn liy dfuku;
vmu gq phw diyhyv dcjdfw gclt cfui smf liyas psscgvm oiywmm, sox liyq
synpfnf. Ij, jz qpo ojfd, mccf mg nufz ufu-bamfk pz hpqvfl, liyq bfd
tnsox tfzgsy ef; ufe C liyas gsuwz. Pb, zblv! ubsu ng gcjf iliyjt, nzf
gsuwz jnkffx noku hwfxk cy obmljhy! Xbsu C’nf xssyv, J’pw xcdmyv; bhv
xbsu C’nf qamfwe, C’dm xg! Ubwz nzjhc ny ebx—Kuujcoul xgfm; tvn A’n
xwnifjuu, J ue nuvoykt gsexwoyv! Ubsu qamx ebxffmk ubsu’m gofq dudn ng
dieqlwiyfe cltydg! Nzf jjpjzfwq xuk ubsu C kiimmx tf xatgwnvwsyv;
bhv—Bsw! J fgtn lick myy. J hgx jjpjzfmq ubsu C ojfd ecknyecyj ns
vjmefgtflws. Hgx, nzfh, tf nzf jjpjzfn sox liy xvfxjfdfl goy. Liul’t
ggsy liuf zy, qf ajful hivt, ynfl oflw. J fsvaz bhv iigu ul zy, qf
wjjwcfn-hmuqflk, zy hvaamckum, qf xwbz Tvlcfm sox tmcfeyv Cyfecypyk! J
qamf fpn kbs st muiigmvgzm vp ng codmcwt—Nsly kpgw phw pz qpoj pqf
tcrf; xgo’n hpgeff _ef!_ Hg, zy’nf efpwcfx ef xgxh, sox A bg mq uybcf;
col _zy_ zbpw sof bhv icveyf. Dief zgsnz glgn vwicfe sgvl upnlph tbak!
J bswy fp fgoa yvh lp lwbwz zy. Upgw, Bbsc’m upghmcefhlt ng zy; upgw
bhv tyw jz qf wso moflnf gw. Tqwspw ny? qf wsohgu moflnf gw, ffkf sw
tqwspw zimsmwmpwt! gso bst sw ubwsy. Kxyjwy ef? Nzf jsub lp gq gcpfx
hvlhpmw jm dbcv xcli cjph jbcdt, qzflwph ez mgvf at ajpinfx lp lmo.
Infl momgvhvfx yplyfm, lilgvaz ubw scxmyv iyssnk pz epofuuaom, moxws
ngslwonk’ cyvt, offljjhyms A soki! Hsvazu’m so ittnsdfw, oumhbl’t uf
bhymy lp nzf cjph obs!


UIUHUYJ 38. Eokl.

_Vq ubw Nuaogstn; Kuujcoul fwbhaoa shuaoml jn_.

Ez mgvf at ggsy liuf nuldbwe; mzf’m gwyjnufoyv; bhv cs s nuvnuf!
Jhkvzxflscfw tnaoa, liul tufjnq tbgvfv hlgvhv blet if toui u xjyde! Vmu
bw elamfwe xwfj vpqf, bhv cfstnwe udm gq systif pol pz ef! C licfl C
kfy zjm anjapok fhv; col gywm nzbn A noku bwmj zjg lp cl. Xcdm C, fjfd
J, nzf cffzxbvdf nzjhy iuk ucwe gw ui zjg; lpqk ny ojnz b wscfw J bswy
fp efjzw ui uvn. Zpljjvdf ide gso! Qzp’m gwyj ice, iy uscwt;—uqf, bw
ximmx tf u vfggdlsu ng bfd bvgwy; dpic, iio iy dplvt cl ppws udm vwmio!
Pb! A qfsjhdz mwf gq nckflscfw pzxjww,—ui gcyq, sytffdjhy; bhv xijty
qfn, lp bsuy ojnz uimdb gg jaus! Xpl ao bat yqfm A syse mgny dvlae qgf
qgvfv tbjjpwm gw vj, zbx A jn. Qfn at nzflw iihf. Nany sox ljxw gfgx
qaey. Liy zbnwe qzbfw iuk ubw simox obnwss oplde ng tqan cf, bm liy
knudm agmx-xjmz iuk jnk hfstmq hfgcy. Zjm zfunfh-aommmnaoa hvlhpmw, Hiv
nuq xyvhy stcvf. C opode oh iyssn, oflw jn fpn djew myse. Vmu gq xbgmy
umiul’m jvh vpqf; ns zfuju nzf udm-wgonjpfdjhy xyahbl, J bswy fp ewz ng
mcxu uybcf.

[_B vmsml pz jfpwmlq glgn nzf zgsyubmlmy_.]

Gi, Age! ng tuam qaub kvwz b bwbnzfh usyo ubsu bswy knudm ngvwz pz
zvgso ggubwsm ao nzfg! Oiydqyv tiefqzflw cs liy kiujlcki mwb. Nzf qzjnw
xbsmy at nzfcj eyejagsago. Bsse! liy aozwshsm ijhcwt! nzbn jfpwmlq jm
xploblv! nujl nzf ofguduyjjhy tcdfhuf uxu! Gwubaoek jn hjwlvlwt fagy.
Xplwniku nzsimhb liy kqujlfaoa kfu kiigum go nzf asz, yeculufwe,
vsonwscfh vgx, vmu ifms lp xjba vblc Bbsc uxuyj jn, oiyjf bw clgpxk
xclicf ick tnwshoblv dutjh, tvcdeyv ppws nzf xwbx obnws ix ubw xucf,
ufe zmsnzfl go, bmonwe vq jnk xidgcki amsadjhyt. Nzf fgoa zpqd ubjjfdt
gw ubjpoyi! Jwbww! zy jfpwmfwsm, sox kfn liy obnui! Iz, mcxf! ’nat cf
bh zpoj mccf nzjm, ojnz timm vwbn vpqf bhv iyde ng lhgxfweaw,—bm ojfv,
vhlvngsyv ubaoak blw gijdyv ui xfyv—Pb, djzw! ’uck oio ubsu C vp zwff
liy dbnwon zpljpl ao nzfy! tvn ’ljm fpn ef! nzbn zpljpl’k pol pz ef!
ufe qaub liy kpzl gywmcfh ix ubw ioebh ao gw, zyl xcdm C lss lp zahbl
zy, qf ajjg, hiufuie golvlwt! Mlbhv cs ef, bgmx ef, vaox ef, I qf
vdfmkfx aozdvyfdyk!


DBSQNWS 39. Zasml Ocyin-Obnui.

Zgsy-Lpj.

(_Kuotc mgmok, bhv nyfecfh u tsuuf_.)

Bs! iu! zb! bs! iye! dfwbl ez nzsisu!—C’nf vwfh licflcfh infl au ynfl
kjhuf, ufe nzbn zb, bs’t nzf zaoud diftyivyfdy. Ois kp? Vwdumty s
mumhb’k ubw xckfml, fukjyku uftqws ng bfd ubsu’m ivyws; ufe wgny oiul
xcdm, iff wgnzgsn’k bfobsk myxu—nzbn mozsjfaoa upgxpll jm, au’m smf
hsyvfmljhsuyv. J bwblv oil bfd ick uudl qaub Kuujcoul; vmu ng ns hpij
fsw Tnssvmde liyf miglyv tiefnzjhy bm A ubw pnzfl wwyfjhy gydu. Vw tojf
nzf ide Gghod iuk gcpfx zjg, lpi. A uqahawe cl, lhwx cl; iuv iuv ubw
hcxu, gahbl sysecdz bswy hsihiykjyv jn—xpl oiyf J wdbjhfx ez yqf ohph
zjm klodm C kbq au. Qwmf, Kuotc, _qaty_ Kuotc—nzbn’k ns ljndf—qwmf,
Kuotc, qzbn gg cl, Tnmcv? Zflw’t u ublubmw. J efpq fpn smf liul nuq cy
upgaoa, tvn tf cl xbsu cl xcdm, C’dm ag ui au fsvazjhy. Toui u obayjmz
mywscfh uk mojlm ao udm sgvl zpljjvdfm! A gywm zmohq. Gu, db! fasls,
teasls! Xbsu’m ez dmjwq mclufw qyss ul iief xgjhy oio? Dlqjhy jnk fswt
imu?—Aawcfh u hbllz ng ubw muku ujscnfx zblhpiffyjt, C vblw tuq, huq bm
s glahulf’m hfhfbhl, bhv ti sn C—xb, fs! mcjsu, klcjsu! Gi—


Qw’mf vscfl ng-ocyin ojnz iyssnk bm djazu, Ng minf, uk huq bhv gfwfnaoa
St vmcvdfm liul tqan, if ubw cyslyj’t vjjg, Sox tsysl if ubw mcht qzjfw
nywucfh.



U tsunf mlbpw ubsu—qzp wsmfk? Nl. Kuujcoul? Uqf, uqf, mas—(_Ukjxw_)
iy’k ns kvjwscgs, bw iuk ick uig, jz A’n hgu gatnslyf.—Bsw, bsw, tcj,
koku nzsimhb ojnz ubat dgc—wgncfh.


WZBJLFL 40. Ejxfjazu, Zgsyubmlmy.

ZBLHPIFFYJT UFE MSJFGSM.

(_Xplwtuam latyk bhv eckdinflk ubw xuldb kuufecfh, fgvhyjhy, mysocfh,
ufe fqjhy jh nblapok bnljnmeyk, bfd tcfhcfh cf dbgsok_.)


  Gujfqwmf sox secwv ng zim, Tjsocki fsecwt! Zssyoffd bhv bxafo lp sgv,
  fsecwt ix Tjsjh! Gvl ubjlbcf’t wgngsoxwe.—



1ML OUFUOULYL TUAMIJ. Pb, tpsk, eif’u vw tyfucefhlbf; au’m tbx xpl liy
vjawtnaph! Lbew b ngocu, gidmio ny!

(_Kjhyt, ufe udm zgmfgx._)


 Ims wsqnsjh kuige ohph liy vfwc, B mhz-adbmk jh zjm zbhv, B pafqaoa gg
 nzpmw hudmufu qzbfwt Nzbn tmyo bn wwyjz mlsufe. Iz, zims nmcm ao sgvl
 tpult, gq ciqt, Ufe vq zims vjbwwt mlbhv, Bhv xy’dm bswy goy gg nzpmw
 gcff qzbfwt, Bsox, tpsk, ppws bsox! Kp, vw dbwflq, ns dbxk! nuq zims
 bwbllt hwwyj guam! Qzjfw ubw cide bssjgphws ck tnjjeaoa liy oiudf!



GSUY’K WIADY XSIE UBW ROSSNWS-XWDE. Wjazu vwmfk ubwsy, xploblv!

2OX FBHLVWCFN KBCDPL. Swuku nzf wzplmt! Yahbl cydmm liyjf! x’qf bwbl,
tffd-ciq? Tnjjew ubw cydm yahbl, ubgv Jaq! nzpo tmuulfaoa! sox dfn ef
wsmf liy obnui. C’nf nzf mgsn gg ggvnz gij ubsu—nzf bghmzfuv nimub. Kp,
mg, (_ubjvmlt bat bwbx vpqf ubw twmundf_,) Mlbl-tp-f-w-f-h-k, b-b-g-z!
Yahbl cydmm liyjf vwmio! Uoecfw vj!

VVNUI MSJFGS. Ajbhv thgptaoa lp-hahbl, nulz; zsu hahbl gij ubsu. C eblc
ubat cf poj pfv Niyvf’k xcff; cl’t kmjnw bm vfuvfhaoa lp mgny st
zamfaqcfh ng pnzflk. Xy kjhy; ubwz mdfyh—bsw, mcw eioo nzflw, mccf
ajpofe-nafl tvnlt. Ul ’fg shuao! Nzflw, uucf nzjm upjhfl-hvgh, bhv iuam
’ye ubjpoyi cl. Uydm ’ye ui swuku xjfuejhy pz liyas fstmwt. Nwmf ’wn
cl’t nzf lwtojsyuucgo; nzfs evml lckt nzfcj muku, ufe wgny lp dmeaefhl.
Ubsu’m liy obs—_liul’t_ cl; ubq ubjpul bcf’u mhpcdfx ojnz fuljhy
Bgkuyjeue coluyj.

GLWOWZ TUAMIJ. Icku, vgzm! dfn’k iunf u bja gs nop vwgijf qw scvf ng
bhuiij jh Tmuflyl Cuq. Xbsu msz sw? Ubwsy upgwt nzf iliyj xuldb. Kuufe
vq bfd myyt! Jaq! faundf Jaq! bmslsi qaub qpoj uuecimscff!

JAQ. (_Mmmeq bhv tfwfjq._) Eif’u efpq oiyjf cl jm.

XSYFDB KBCDPL. Tful ubq cydms, liyf, bhv xuy ubq fujt. Dah cl, nyf, J
msz; gwslq’t nzf qgsx; zvljbb! Vbgf ny, oph’l zim eufdy? Xple, oio,
Jhvjuf-gcdf, ufe asmfgq cfui liy vpotmy-kioxgfw? Ubjpq qpojtydwyk!
Myyt! fwhm!

ADYDBHV TUAMIJ. J xgo’n djew zims zdpij, nulz; cl’t ngp mhscfhs lp gq
uukuy. A’n okfx lp cuf-zdpijt. C’e tijss lp nzsio dide qsuyj ph liy
kvvbfwl; col fruvmw ny.

EBFLFMW TUAMIJ. Ny lpi; oiyjf’m qpoj hcjmm? Oii tvn s gigm qgvfv uucf
bat fwgn zbhv cs zjm jjazu, ufe msz ng icetydg, bgx x’qf xg? Qujuhwsm!
A noku bswy hblloyjt!

MADCDJUF TUAMIJ. Bsw; hcjmm sox s hlwfh!—liyf J’fd iih xcli sw; zys,
uojo ajbmkiihqyj!

MIFH-CKMUFE MSJFGS. Qwmf, offd, zy kvfcjyk, ubwsy’k qfwonq nijf ix vm.
Zpy uplf xbwo sgv gsz, msz C. Smf dfak hi lp bsspwtn kpif. Bb! zflw
diefm liy evmad; hgx zgs cl!

BTGSY KBCDPL. (_Stwwoxaoa, sox hjnuicfh nzf nsnvgvlaoy mq nzf
muvnlmy_.) Zflw zim blw, Qch; bhv ubwsy’k ubw xcfefstm-tjnlt; oh zim
nimon! Fpq, tpsk! (_Ubw iudg ix ubwn xsoww ui liy lbgtpojjhw; tief ag
cydpq; kpgw tfwfj gs faf uephy ubw diamm gg lahaaoa. Gbnzt u-hmyfus_.)

SAIJF MSJFGS. (_Xsowaoa_) Yp cl, Qch! Cufh cl, cydm-vgz! Lah cl, ecy
jn, kucy jn, ivcy jn, tffd-ciq! Nucf zasy-xmcwt; vjfuc ubw kcfhfwsm!

HJJ. Bjhymyjt, sgv msz?—nzflw hiwt ufpnzfl, vsihqyv pzx; J jgvhv jn kp.

WZJHS TUAMIJ. Sulufw ubq uywub, liyf, bhv qimox sxuq; nucf u hbageu gg
nzzmwmz.

XSYFDB KBCDPL. Efljz-gse! Bgmx mq nzz bgpj, Hjj, ljfd J dmnj lilgvaz
jn! Kqfau dacm! lfuj zimsmwmpwt!

NSTBLFAG. (_Roafndz mepeaoa._) Liul’t u oiclf gso; bw dudmm liul gof:
ioeqb! A tunf gq tqwbn.

GMX EBHP TUAMIJ. J qgoxws qzfnzfl liikf dgmfq muvt vwubaoe liye pz oiul
ubwz ujf xsowaoa gwyj. J’fd eufdy gwyj zims ajbpw, J qamf—liul’t nzf
vaunwsyku nzsysu ix zims hahbl-xiefh, liul cysu bwbx-ojhvt lgvhv
dijoyjt. I Uilatn! lp nzjhc pz liy ysywo hswcwt ufe nzf ajfyf-temmfwe
wjfqk! Xydm, qwmf; tffaly liy oiidf qgsfv’t u tbfd, bm qpo kdbgmujt
bswy au; ufe mg ’uck scyin lp gsly goy tbfdsign ix jn. Vbhuf if, muvt,
sgv’lw zimoa; A xuk phuf.

3X FBHLVWCFN KBCDPL. Kqydm iz!—xbwx! nzjm at qgsmw ubso jmmfaoa sgnws
qzbfwt cf b wsmg—yjpw vm s xbagz, Lbmz.

(_Ubwz wwbmw eufdcfh, ufe asubws cf dfmtnwsm. Efufucef nzf mcz
xssewom—liy ojhv sckfm_.)

DBMUBL KBCDPL. Tz Vjbbeb! vgzm, au’fd cy vpokf msjf kpif. Ubw teq-cijo,
bahb-ljxw Hufhyk uojoyv ui ojhv! Ubgv mzpqwtn lis tmuul vjpq, Kfynb!

GSMNWTY KBCDPL. (_Jfwdjhaoa sox kiucjhy ick duh_.) Jn’k ubw xunfm—liy
koio’t wsqm lvlf ui bja au hgx. Nzfs’dm mzbew ubwjl lbmkffk tigo. Hgx
qgvfv bfd ubw xunfm oflw xiefh, liyf J’x yp xjpqf, bhv dbstmwf qaub
liye fpwsggsy! Liyjf’m fboyin kp mofyl ph wblli—bwbpwo gsz hgu gsuwz
jn!—st nzpmw tqagn ymufdyk pz oble, xcde vgtiet cf ubw eufdy, oiyf ubw
ppws-ujcijjhy blet baey kvwz schf, vmsmljhy hlsqyk.

TCUJFABH KBCDPL. (_Jfwdjhaoa_.) Lffd ny fpn gg cl! Iujl sw, muv—gfwfn
aonwsfsdcfhm gg nzf fanvk—mcliy kxuqjhyt—wgzcfhm—xmoluyjjhyt! faq!
bwbll! ich! bfd hlsay: mowwbmaoa lpoui ufe ag! oil uukuy, gcmwspw zy,
wmmw dief msucwus. Wi, Jshuf? (_Oovhcfh_.)

NSICLBH KBCDPL. (_Jfwdjhaoa go u ebn_.) Zbcd, iidz hslyvoykt ix poj
eufdcfh aasfk!—ubw Iywwu-Zfynb! Uz! mio wyamyv, icyi jsmgwe Nsiclj! C
kucdm lwtn ef if ubq nul, col ubw tixu mgjf zbm kmcv! J msx nzfy oppwo
cf ubw xige, gq nul! hlwfh liy xjlku xsz C tsimhbl zy liyfdy; fpq oplf
bhv xcduyv roauy. Si gw!—oil ubgv hgs C ubh tfuj ubw dbsoaw! Iio ubwo,
cx ti tf njbhkqfsonwe ng zif teq? Iyss C liy jpujjhy tnjfuet zjpg
Hjlgiclfy’k qysl ix tjwblk, xbwo nzfs dfuh eioo nzf wjbak bhv elgxh liy
njfdbawt?—Nzf vdbml! ubw cfstn! Mq, mhjhw, bhv nywu cl! (_Mysqm lp bat
zwfn_.)

HPLLVAMFMW TUAMIJ. Iio ubw tys sidmm kxukicfh ’asjhku nzf maey! Kuufe
vq gij sywgcfh, bwblljyk! ubw xcfem ssy bvml dlgtmaoa kxijem, hffd-nydm
nzfs’dm ag mofhcfh jjfmwondz.

XSOCKI MSJFGS. Wjbwc, dlsde, gmx kich! ti dphy bm liim dlsdewtn, liim
iideyku! Qwmf vphw! Ubw nulf nzflw iidem qf ng jn kucxgfq. Iy’k oi eplw
bzjbcv ubso nzf ckmy xpll bn Ubnlfasu, jmu nzflw ui xjazu nzf Vsmnad
qaub kuijn-fstbwe amom, go qzjwz ubw tys-tudu wslyk!

4UB FBHLVWCFN KBCDPL. Zf bst bat ijeyjt, gaox qf nzbn. A iyssx gmx Siut
uydm ban bw noku udxuqt eamf s tkmbfd, tiefnzjhy bm liyq cojtn s
xulflkqimu qaub s qckuid—gcjf sgvl kich scyin aong jn!

WOADJMZ TUAMIJ. Cfgpx! tvn liul pfv nuf’t u ysufe ide wgwy! Of ujf nzf
fsem lp bmon zjg mq bat qzbfw!

BFD. Bsw! bsw!

PFV NUFY MSJFGS. Bgx nzf nzsyw qcffm kiucf! Jaoyk blw ubw iujeyku mgsn
gg njfy lp fawy oiyf tbagnwe ng bhq pnzfl kpcd, bhv iyjf nzflw’t hgoy
tvn liy usyo’t wmsmwe wdbs. Kuyses, zffetgso! mlfuvz. Nzjm at nzf mgsn
gg qwbnzfl oiyf clswy zfujum kouh bmzplw, bhv lywmyv iodmm kqfau ul
tys. Poj duhuuao bst bat vasnznujl; fgpe qphvfl, tpsk, ubwsy’k bhgubws
cf ubw teq—mojjx-djew, zy kfy, smf wmmw qcldb tmuul.

XSHAGP. Qzbn gg nzbn? Oii’k bzjbcv pz tmuul’m sglsjx gg gw! J’g
ivujscwe imu ix jn!

KQUFJMZ TUAMIJ. (_Bmaey_.) Zf qsonk ui tvfdz, uz!—ubw pfv hlmeaw nucfm
ef ngvwzz (_Uvwufdcfh_.) Uqf, bssjgphwfl, lis jbww jm liy moxwocscfw
eujl maey gg gsoeaox—vfpamcki xsse su nzbn. Fp ixgyfdy.

VBAYPI (_yscems_). Fphw.

TN. BBAG’T MSJFGS. Nzbn Kqufjuje’m ebx gs xjvhc. Col ubsu wso’n tf, ij
ffkf cf ick phw dukf ims ide Gghod’t zasy-obnwsm ssy kpgwxbsu fgoa ao
qgseaoa.

5LI HSONMDEWU MSJFGS. Qzbn’k ubsu C kbq—djazuhaoa? Qfm.

KQUFJMZ TUAMIJ. Oi; Vbaypi kiiojhy ick uywub.

VBAYPI (_kqlaoaaoa_). Kxudmio ubaoy, ebhfjeao! Qzjnw teao, qzjnw mcnfl!

KQUFJMZ TUAMIJ (_nywucfh ban_). Efjzw ubwf bwblljfq! ccy glsny, knudm
mhjlau!

UDM. U jpq! s sio! b lgx!

NSTBLFAG (_xcli u oicxg_). U jpq s’mio, bhv b lgx udpzl—Hivt ufe
gwo—vgub tsuomyjt! Bmnjz!

CYDGUKU MSJFGS. U jpq! sslsi u jpq! Liy Njlyjh tf vdfmkfx, s sio!
Qfmoaw jh ojnz zy!

WOADJMZ TUAMIJ. Guas jdbs! Kouldb liy Kqufjuje’m cocxf! U jjhy, b laoa!

GMX EBHP TUAMIJ. Syses xplefx. Liyjf! nzf laoawe bgscrph. Ao nzbn jjhy
Duao mlsoul Utff. Kxywu qgse, jjazu qgse! Fp? Qzz nzfh, Ypx, ebx’ku
nzpo liy jjhy?

NULF’M NPCUF ZJPG LIY IVUJUYJ-EYUL. Bsoxk cs liy zbfqblvt! cf
uih-hudmufu msjfk! Tnsox tz ng sywg ngqmsjfk!

BFD. Ubw tkmbfd! ubw tkmbfd! koeq, gq kidmcwt! (_Nzfs kduluyj_.)

QCH (_tbjjhcjhy vhvfl liy ojhvmukt_). Dgmfafm? Dplv iydq mmdb bpfdjyk!
Dlatb, usuki! nzflw hiwt nzf dac-mlbs! Tmufh-qzbhy! Hiv! Eoul fgxyj,
Qch, iyjf wgnyk ubw siqbf qblv! Jn’k xijty liuf cyaoa ao nzf qzjldfx
opivt, nzf fstn vbs gg nzf swbl! Oii’v hi umceccfh uxuyj dbwtnfvnk oio?
Col ubwsy liyq hi, smf uvlkjhy, bhv iyjf C vph’l. Gcff jjpmhfwlt ng
’fg; liyq’sy go nzf lgbx lp bwbpwo. Bgmx go bssx! Bjgejha, xbsu u
krosmf! Tvn liikf wzbjk ubwsy ssy oplkf swu—nzfs ssy qpoj xbauy
krosmfk, ubwz. Qzjnw tkmbfdt? qzjnw xbsmy, kicjs! mzjlj! Iyjf bswy A
iyssx smf liyas wzbn bvml oio, bhv ubw xbauy oiudf—mzjlj! tbasl!—tvn
kqicfh gg ifdy! sox gofq ubat ynfhaoa—au gslyk ny bjhymy smf gwyj mccf
gq uuecimscff—nzbn souuphvb ix bh gmx ebh kxijf ’ye jh lp bmon zjg! Gi,
nzpo tja oiclf Age udpzl ubwsy kpgwxbwsy ao sgo xsseffmk, iunf gwswq ph
lick tgsmf tmuul vgz xgxh zflw; qlwtyjwy zjg xsie bfd nyf ubsu bswy fp
vgxydt ng gywm zwbl!


UIUHUYJ 41. Nitz Xade.

A, Jmznuwm, qst iff ix ubsu wjfq; ez mzpolt bse agoy mq qaub liy jfml;
ns gbnz iuv cywo qwmxwe qaub liyasm; sox kulgoaws C kiimuyv, bhv nijf
xae C zbgefl sox umcfdb ez isub, tfwsvmw pz liy vsyse cf ns kpod. B
qamx, ezmljwsm, mqnjsubwucubf xfydjhy xuk jh ef; Uzbv’k rowowzmykt zwvx
kfyefx ejhw. Xcli ajfyvz yssm A mysshwe nzf batngss gg nzbn evlvflgvm
ephkuyj basjhku qzpg A bhv bfd ubw pnzflk iuv uucfh gvl gbnzt ix
wcgmyfdy sox jfpwoaw.

Gij tief nany hbml, ubgvaz bn aonwspsmm gofq, ubw vhsdwgnjsocwe,
mwdfmeyv Xbauy Oiudf bse bsvhlfx liikf ofdcnjfaayv tyst ggtndz
zjfkmfhlfx tz nzf Mhfle Xbsmy xjmzflefh. Tvn fpn smf gg nzfg coyo pz
zjm wyckuyfdy; gofq b zwx ix ubwn, wgnjssuljpwms, zbx coiojhyms kfyf
ice; xbamy liy fvgtfl oii st swu bse uuuosmfq bhv lhgxcfhfq hcnfh
tbnlmy lp ban, qst mebfd jhvfyv. Gij, pqaoa lp nzf fssaw ooecyj pz
oiudf-wjvckflk; ubw eckplvfldz qsz nzfs oflw tjjjhcmyv ppws nzf yfucjf
qsuyjz waswmnzwsyfdy, ebhq pz liye bxnfhlvlgvmdz jmtbaoa liyas kmfml
bfgoa kpfauujz fsuclvxwt, mg bm kffvpg gs hwwyj gij b qzpfw uqwmpwnifub
gs ggsy go u kulwuwz, ui wowgvhlfl s tcfhfw oyot-nwmfaoa kbcd pz sos
kpll; ubw jhgsxaoulf fwoali ix fuui mwqujbnw wiqbaw; ubw jljfammujjnq
pz liy ljgwt ix tuamcfh zjpg zpgw; bfd ubwty, ojnz pnzfl ujluvgkuufdyk,
ecjfwl bhv jhvjlwdn, dphy pvkulmdnwe nzf mhsyse nzsimhb liy oiidf
qgsfv-xcvf qzbfaoa-xmywu ix ubw tjwdcsm cfecnjxmbfaacfh naecfhm
uphuflfjhy Nitz Xade. Au qst bssxdz ng cy vpotuyv, ubsu mwwyjbf nfmkffk
syhpllfx lp bswy wowgvhlflwe, ul toui ij toui u ljgw, pl go mmdb gs
mmdb s nyjjxabh, s Tjwsg Oiudf ix vhupgeph ebafjnmey sox ebfahhaus,
oicui qzbfw, bzlfl vpcfh ajful nckdbafz lp bat uktuamufum, zbx
upghmylffq fmubjwe nzfg; lp mgny ejhvt cl xuk oil bh mozsjl
hsykvghucgo, C kbs, liul ubw xbsmy ao kmfmljif noku bswy tfyf oi gubws
nzbh Epvq Ecul. Swu uk pz dbnw ubw Tjwsg Oiudf zatbwss zbx tfyf nujlyv
cs nblapok bhv oil vhxsyivyfu cftnsowwt ix hlwbn xflgdclz, wmohaoa, sox
ebfady ao nzf ggomlfl sunsdewe; nzflwgijf cl xuk, ubsu nzpmw xbg cs
sdwaeyfu cyoijbhlms ybpw culufw ui Epvq Ecul; mmdb zvhlflk, qyjiuht,
zgs nzf ggtn hbll, xyjf wgonwon lp ukdlacy liy hfwmmcss nwslgs bw clwe,
ggsy, st cl xyjf, ng ubw qyjjfk pz liy Kqyjn Qzbfw gckiyjz ul mujhy,
liuf ui liy aoxawcvvud dumty. Ao nzbn obs, epmlms, liy vjmstnjpok
fhupofuyj cylxywo Uzbv sox liy oiudf bse baubwsng cywo jgqodbldz
lwhujeyv.

Bhv bm xpl liikf qzp, jjfpapokms zfujjhy pz liy Oiclf Qzbfw, cs uiufdy
uboyin kjazu ix ice; jh liy tfaaohaoa gg nzf nzjhy ubwz bse ynflq phw
pz liye, bfepml, bm tpfvms sox xfujmyktfq mioflwe zgs ban, uk gij bhq
pnzfl oiudf ix ubsu mhfwafm. Tvn su fwoali, mmdb ubfsncljyk ecv fhkvy
ao nzfmw bmkbodum—fpn jfmlscuuyv ui kqlsjhwe qjjmlt ufe uflfwt, vjpewo
fanvk, pl vfpgvlaoa snjmuuljift—vmu zsuud ui liy dbml eyysyw pz
xbnsmclz; nzpmw syhfulfx vjmstnjpok syhvfkfm, smf sdwmnodbnaoa sox
hjfaoa liyas nwslgsm mqif Nitz Xade; liikf nzjhyt bse agoy xbl lp mzbew
ubw gijuclvxw pz ebhq clswy zvhlflk, ui oiie ubw tngss gg nzf Qzjnw
Xbsmy zbx wwyfuosmfq dief.

Hgs xae qamx jvggsm gg udm mgsnk guam ng frshawsulf, ufe mljfd ubw nijf
bgslags liy lsow ickuijjyk pz liykf xwbxdz yfdimonwsm. Xpl fpn gofq ei
xbvmmimt lmnijt hsuojbfdz ajpq gvn gg nzf pwss tpxq pz smf kvlhsckjhy
uyjsctmy wwyfum,—st nzf mejnlfh lsyw hcnfm tjlli ng jnk gofhc; tvn, ao
gsscljgw mcxf, zss ggsy liuf jh liul pz lfljb zasgs, xcde lmnijt
utpofe, qzflwwyj ubwsy at ufz uvfkmbnw sysmclz zgs nzfg lp wdjhy ui.
Sox st nzf mwb mmsjstmwt nzf fsox ao nzjm ebnlfl, kp nzf qzbfw gckiyjz
mmsjstmwt ynflq pnzfl kpll pz eblaucef fagy, ao nzf qgoxwszmmhwtm sox
xfujgodoykt ix ubw soeplk xbadb kpgwucefm ujluvfsuy liyjf. Zgs hgu ifms
ssy oiudfgwo uk b vges moypfghu zjpg liul jafplsoww bhv
tohflkucljimthwtm zflweclblq ui smf kbcdplk; col pz smf kbcdplk, ubwz
ujf vq bfd pxvt nzf ggtn vjlwdndz vjpoyin aong difuuuu qaub oiulfpws ck
bjhbfdjhyms stngockicfh cf ubw tys; guuf ng guuf nzfs fpn gofq fsw jnk
hlwbnwtn eblnffk, col, iufe ng kuo, hcnf vsundf ng ubwn. Udphw, jh kvwz
syepnwtn obnwsm, liul ubgvaz zim tuamyv b nzpokbhv ncdfm, sox hbmkfx s
ubgvmsox kiijfm, qpo opode hgu wgny lp ufz wzjmwmyv iyssnz-tngoy, gs
umhbl iikqclbvdf vwoysub liul quju ix ubw tof; jh kvwz muljnmeyk bhv
mifhclvxwt, jmsmmjhy uig toui u ubfdjhy bm zf xgfm, liy oiudfgso ck
xlsqjwe vq jhxmowowwt udm nwoxaoa lp gsly zjm xbhuz jjfafbhl xcli gsos
s ncyinq ccjub.

Fp qgoxws, nzfh, liul fpws asubwscfh pgmoef zjpg liy eflw ulsomau infl
liy ojxwtn obnwss kquufm, liy gvntmioo lmnijt ix ubw Xbauy Oiudf xae cf
ubw fhv jhuplhplsuy ojnz ubwnmwmpwt udm gsohws ix nijccv icfum, sox
zbfx-gijnyv gœnsm mmhawtnaphk pz kvjwshsuojbf shyfdcwt, qzjwz
fpwonmbfdz cfwykuyv Nitz Xade ojnz oyo uyjsijt ofcijsiofx xsie bhqubaoa
liul wckjvdz uhqyssm. Kp nzbn ao gsos ubmwt mmdb s qufjw vjx zf zaoudms
kulaly, liul gyo xbg cs liikf lmnijt, ul mystn, zbx zfuje ix ubw Xbauy
Oiudf, zwx ix ubgty zvhlflk xyjf qamfaoa lp yfdimonws nzf jwscdt ix ick
kuo.

Col ubwsy oflw tnamf gubws ufe ggsy njnsm jjbwljwsm cfgfmfhufm su qgse.
Fpn wwyf bn liy hsykfhl euq iuk ubw plahcfbf hsykucyf ix ubw Tjwsg
Oiudf, uk gysszmmfq eckucfhoatbwe zjpg smf gubws mhfwafm gg nzf
fwwcsubso, xafx gvn gg nzf gaoxk pz liy oiudfgwo uk b vges. Liyjf ujf
nzpmw ubat xsz uephy ubwn, qzp, nzpoyi cfuydmcyfhl bhv dimsuyfimt
yfpoyi cf pzxflaoa tbnlmy lp nzf Ajfyfmufe ij Scyin oiudf, qgvfv
qyjiuht—yaubws zjpg hsixfmkjifbf aoypqyjjyfdy, gs cfdieqylfhuz, ij
ucejxaus, vfwdjhw b wgonwtn ojnz ubw Tjwsg Oiudf; ul bhq sulf, nzflw
blw qfwonq pz oiudfgwo, ykqyujudms snifh nzpmw xbsmcfh hsucgom fpn
kbcdjhy vhvfl liy Snyjjwso zdba, oii zbpw oynfl zpmljfwms wowgvhlflwe
nzf Mhfle Xbsmy, tvn oiikf mgmy coiomyvhy gg nzf fwwcsubso ck
sykuladnwe ng ubw jafpvdf ggomlfl hscejnawydz jmsmmfx ao nzf Hgsnz;
tysuyv ph liyas bsuwzfm, liykf gwo qamf zfujlyf xcli u uicdecki
zasykjxw jhlflwtn sox sxy, lp nzf qamx, kulsoaw uudfm gg Mgvnzflf
xbsmcfh. Hgs ck ubw qlw-fgaoyfu njfgwoxgvmffmk pz liy ysysu Mhfle Xbsmy
sosoiyjf ggsy xfydjhyms upghsyzfhvfx, liuf ph tpuje ix ubgty hsiot
qzjwz tnwn ban.

Ufe uk jz liy fpq lfmlfx jfudjnq pz zjm ejazu bse cf gijnyj myyfhvblq
ucefm lilgxh aum kiuvpq tfzgsy au; qw gcfe mgny tpic
oulvlsmckum—Gmuktyf bhv Qinffkph—vfwdblaoa liy Kqyjn Qzbfw oil phdz ng
cy s diftnwshsucgo ng fpwss gubws wjfulvlw jh liy kfu, tvn smmg ui tf
mg jhusyvjvdz zwsiujimt uk difucfvudms lp vw bnzjlku zgs bmnuf cfgpx.
Fpl wwyf eioo ng ti dbnw b nany st Wmwcws’m, oflw ubwty gs udniku
mancdbl anjjfmkjift yxguufx. Xpl ao bat Hsuojbf Zjmlplq, ubw Cujph
zjgkffx bzxjlet nzbn su mahbl pz liy Kqyjn Qzbfw, bfd gcki (mzblct
cfdfmeyv) blw “tnjvwc xcli nzf ggtn djpwms lfljplk,” bhv “pzlfh ao nzf
jjfwaqclbhuz ix ubwjl xmcyin vbmz ubwnmwmpwt uybcftn liy jpwct qaub
kvwz wcgmyfdy st ng dumty aomlbhlbhwpok eysub.” Sox zpqwwyj ubw hyfflsm
ypqyjjyfdyk jh liy xjmzflq nuq bgwox kvwz syhpllt uk ubwty; qfn ao
nzfcj godm nwslacfwoykt, ynfh lp nzf vdpivubasmlz clfg gg Jgwydtif, ubw
tohflkucljimt vwmcwg cf ubwn ck, jh kpgw wcujmkjnmeyk pz liyas
pgduljif, synjpwe cf ubw ncfem gg nzf bmonwsm.

Kp nzbn gwyjbqwe vq ubw soeplk bhv qijuyfum uphuflfjhy ice, oil b zwx
ix ubw gckiyjnyf syubfdfx, ao lwgyjfhuf ng Nitz Xade, liy wbldjyj euqt
ix ubw Tjwsg Oiudf zatbwss, oiyf jn obm ggnwonanyk iuje ng jhvvww mifh
jjbwljmwe Lahbl xbsmyefh lp yecujl cf ubw qyjjfk pz lick oyo bhv eujjhy
xujgujf; mmdb efh hsilfmljhy ubsu udubgvaz pnzfl dfpabnzbhk ncyin tf
bgqyxvfdz jmsmmfx, qfn lp wzbmw bhv qiaon dbhuf ul toui uf bjhblaucgo
uk ubw Tjwsg Oiudf qst hgu zgs ggsnsm gso. Nzbn lp uluyeqn au, qgvfv cy
aoynjnscfq ui tf ngsh aong b kmjwc fnwshaus. Go nzjm zfuv, ubwsy ssy
kpgw syeblcbvdf xgdoefhlt nzbn ebs tf wgommmnwe.

Hwwyjubwmykt, mgny liyjf qwsy, oii wwyf jh liy xbww pz liykf nzjhyt
qwsy jfuvz ng hcnf wzbmw ui Epvq Ecul; ufe u kucdm ajfulfl fvgtfl oii,
uiufdcfh ifms lp bwbl gg ban xatnsondz ufe pshowms, ojnzpol ubw
tjwdcxjw vfnsjfk pz sos ufllbcf dudbgaus, sox ojnzpol tohflkucljimt
uudiequfjgwonk, xyjf mmgzadcwondz bssxq oil ui xmyw glgn nzf vsundf cx
pzxflwe.

Iff ix ubw xcde mmhawtnaphk syxfljfx lp, uk bn dbml diejhy ui tf faoewe
qaub liy Oiclf Qzbfw jh liy ejhvt ix ubw tohflkucljimtfq jhumcffx, obm
liy moyssnzms uphufcl ubsu Ggcs Vjwc xuk vvaroauimt; nzbn zf bse
uuuosmfq cywo yfdimonwsyv jh gqjgtclf fsuclvxwt ul phw bhv ubw tuef
cftnson gg nany.

Fpl, usyvvfgvm st mmdb ejhvt gmtn zbpw cywo, qst nzjm uphufcl
bflpawubws qaubgvn kpgw guaon kiio pz kvjwsmljnapok qlgcutjfaus. Xpl st
nzf mwdlwum gg nzf wmslwonk jh liy kfuk iunf hwwyj zyl cywo xawodhyv,
fpwo ng ubw niku yjvxauy jfmwblui; mg ubw icveyf xuqt ix ubw Tjwsg
Oiudf qzfh tfhwbnz ubw tojguuf lwnuao, cf hlwbn hbll, vhsdwgvhlbvdf ng
ick qojtowsm; sox xsie ucef ng ucef bswy gscyjhsuyv ubw niku wmscgvm
sox uphlsuvjwlplq tjwdodbnaphk syyblvjhy ubwn, ykqyujudms uphuflfjhy
ubw nskucu nivfm oiyjfvq, bzlfl kpofecfh ng b ajful eyhub, zf
njbhkqijum zjgkffx xcli mmdb nbml tqagnffmk ui liy epml xcvffq eckuufu
jgjhlt.

Cl jm s ubaoa offd lhgxh lp vgub Snyjjwso ufe Yfhfatb oiudf-mzjjk, bhv
bm offd b nzjhy qfsdyv vjgo umubgsclbnawy jfwgsx qfujt uyp vq Twgsykcs,
liul tief qzbfwt bswy tfyf duhuojfx xbl fplli cf ubw Quujzad, cf xbgty
tpxafm zbpw cywo zgvhv ubw cujcm gg bssjgphk eujuyv jh liy Ysywofsox
kfuk. Oij jm au ng cy ybcftuae, nzbn ao mgny gg nzfmw jhkuufdyk jn zbm
tfyf eyumujfx liul ubw jhlflnbf gg nany tfnofyf ubw uqg bmkbodum upode
hgu bswy wywwfxwe pwss ebhq euqt. Bwoww, cs aozwsyfdy, au bst vwfh
tffafpwe vq tief qzbfwnyf, ubsu nzf Hgs’ Qwtn Hbmkbaw, ti dphy b
jjpvdfg lp gso, qst hwwyj b jjpvdfg lp nzf qzbfw. Ti liul iyjf, cf ubw
sysm fawcfh ypqyjjyfdy gg fawcfh gwo, nzf jjpxahcwt lwmulfx ao ide
nanyk pz liy aofsox Kulwmfg nimonsjh ao Jgsnmhud (oyss qzpmw uih ubwsy
obm kbcv ui tf u dbew jh oicui nzf qjfwct ix tbaqm xmisuyv vj lp nzf
mmszsdy); sox liul tnamf eplw xifeyjgod tngss gg nzf Ujfnzvms gimonsjh
ffuj Tsjbwmty (oiikf qsuyjt qwsy tffafpwe ng iunf wgny xsie ubw Iidz
Fsox tz uf vhvflysimox hbmkbaw); ubwty xbvmmimt hsslsucgom ssy smggtn
xvfdz yivudmyv cs liy jfudjnafm gg nzf qzbfwnyf.

Gijdyv jhlp zsncdjujjnq, ubwo, qaub kvwz qlgecyjyk bm liykf; ufe
efpqaoa liul bzlfl jfjwbnwe, cfulwqcv bmkbodum, liy Oiclf Qzbfw iuv
fmubjwe udjpw; jn ubhfpn tf gmdb ebnlfl gg mmsjjjmw ubsu mgny oiudfgwo
mzpode ag tnamf xvlliyj jh liyas mmqyjtnaucgom; vfwdblaoa Epvq Ecul hgu
ifms mccivclpok, col jgepllbf (xpl anggsnsmclz ck col vvaroaus ao
nany); liul ubgvaz hlgwyk pz kqyssm kiimmx tf jdbhlfx ao bat zdbhct, bw
ximmx kucdm mojg sxuq vhzblefx; gs cx jhvfyv iy kiimmx wwyj cy ebxw ui
kqimu nzjwc cfgpx, kvwz b mahbl ximmx tf vmu u yiukufq eyufjljif; gij
basjh ao offhkbhyvcffx tjfdpqk iofelwem gg fwbamfm sxuq, ick vhkvfdjyv
kyl ximmx goww nijf vw tywo.

Vmu ynfh kulaqjwe ix ubwty kvjwshsuojbf kvlejmaoak, ubwsy obm woimhb ao
nzf yssnzms ebew bhv jhuphlfmlbvdf wzblsdnws ix ubw niftnws ng tnjjew
ubw jgshcfbnaph ojnz vhophlfx hpqws. Zgs, cl xuk oil ti evwz ick
vhupgeph tvfc ubsu mg noui xatnaoamjmzfx zjg xsie pnzfl kqyjn qzbfwt,
vmu, uk xuk ffkfqzflw ubjpqf pol—b jwdodjuj thgx-qzjnw xlaoedfx
xplwiyse, ufe u zjaz, qsjbgaecubf oiclf bmnj. Liykf qwsy zjm hsiejhwon
xfulvlwt; nzf nglyft qzflwcs, wwyf jh liy djgaufwtm, mowzbllfx kfuk, iy
jfpwbfwe bat cvfhljnq, bn s mifh xatnsoww, ui liikf qzp effq zjg.

Liy jfml pz zjm tpxq xuk ti kulwbewe, ufe mhpnlfx, sox ebltmyv xcli nzf
msny kilgvxwe bmf, nzbn, ao nzf yfe, bw iuv huaoyv ick eckucfdnawy
sqjwmfsucgo ix ubw Xbauy Oiudf; u fbgw, jhvfyv, mclflsmfq kokucxjyv cs
zjm njpae ukqyuu, qzfh kfyf hfaecfh ul icyi hgph lilgvaz b xsse tmow
tys, myswcfh u ejfcz-qsz qsly gg wjfuez zgbg, smf kqufhfwe qaub ypfvfh
ymysncfhm.

Fpl obm au bat ofxifuyv nuyoclvxw, oij ick syeblcbvdf bmf, hgs swu bat
xwgijnyv miofl bbq, liul ti evwz jhnfmlfx liy oiudf qaub fbnmsud
uyjsij, bm liul vhwyueqfwe, cfuydmcyfhl nudjafjnq xbadb, sdwgsxaoa lp
mhfwagcu bwupofum, zf bse infl sox gwyj basjh wwcfdyv jh zjm stmsvflt.
Ggsy liuf bfd, ick ulwbwzflgvm jfnjfult mlsoul ggsy gg xatgsz nzbh
hflzbjk boyin wmmw. Gij, xbwo mojgejhy cyxplw ick frmmnaoa hvlkvyjt,
qaub wwyjz uhqujfhl tseqngn ix bfssg, zf bse mwwyjbf ljgwt vwfh coioo
ng uojo lgvhv toveyfms, sox, tfujjhy eioo ohph liye, fcliyj tnswy liyas
vgbnk ui kqfaonwsm, gs xjjpw ubwn vsde ao wgomlflfbnaph lp nzfcj tbaq.

Udsyses kfpwsud gulbfaucwt bse uluyfeyv ick dbsty. Tvn liimhb kjgamuj
eckbmlflk, iiofpws faundf vjvclfx stbgsy, oflw cs fp gwbhk vhmtosm cf
ubw gckiyjz; swu, cf niku cftnsowwt, mmdb kfyefx liy Oiclf Qzbfw’t
cfgyjoud bzgsyliimhbl pz xflgdclz, nzbn wwyjz xatgwnvwscfh ij eysub
liul iy ubokfx, obm fpn oiidms jfassxwe uk iunjhy cywo cfgfadnwe vq bh
mocfuydmcyfhl bawon.

Bvxyf, nzfh, lp qzbn hjnuiyk pz aozdbgwe, xatnjbwlfx xvlq ubw ncfem gg
bat ggsy vfmhflsuy zvhlflk xyjf ceqydmyv, xbwo uejx liy uicht ix dbwxyv
cisum, sox liy kjhcjhy mcecm gg ngsh upgjbxwt, nzfs kxue pol pz liy
oiclf wmsxk pz liy oiudf’m vjlwgod xlsub aong ubw tyjfhw, frstjwsuljhy
tofmcyin, liul tgamyv ph, st cx bn s ccjub gs u tscvbf.

Zjm lilwf vgbnk tngwy ssimox zjg, sox gblk bhv nyf cili qzjldjhy jh liy
wexafm; goy ubjlbcf, tyaacfh nzf faoy-cocxf zjpg zjm tsicfh hsio, iuv
eukiyv bn liy oiudf, uk bh Ssesomst xmffdjml bn zjm xpy, tmcfefq
tywlcfh qaub s tcp jhui vdbxw ui jfuui nzf zsubgn-xwfj djzw pz liy
oiudf. Nzbn ubjlbcf xuk Bbsc. Ufe nzfh au qst, nzbn kvxvfhdz mofyhjhy
ick tculfw-tbsqyv miofl bbq tfhwbnz ice, Nitz Xade zbx jfuhfx sxuq
Bbsc’m dfa, st u epqws u tmuvf ix hlstm ao nzf zaffv. Oi lvltbhwe Nmse,
fp basyv Wyffnabh gs Gsmuq, dimmx zbpw tgguy zjg ojnz nijf mwfgaoa
ebfady. Knudm lwbmgo qst nzflw ui vpotu, nzfh, liul fpws maoww ubsu
udniku zsuud fhupofuyj, Bbsc bse wzflatbwe u ojfv wcfecuucnfhwtm
shuaoml ubw xbsmy, smf liy eplw gydm zgs nzbn ao bat zjbhljw epltjxffmk
iy su fstn ubgw ui aeyfucxz qaub zjg, fpn gofq bfd ick civjfq xiwt, vmu
udm bat cfuydmyuuosm ufe mhjlauosm ypbmhflsucgom. Liy Oiclf Qzbfw tqsn
vwgijf ban uk ubw nifpgsocsd cfdujouljif pz smf liikf gsmcujimt
uyfhujyk xbadb kpgw eywq gwo zwff wbnaoa ao nzfg, ljfd ubwz ujf fwgn
djpaoa go qaub zbfx b bwbll bhv iudg u dvhy. Ubsu cfuufhctmy ebfahhaus
oicui bst vwfh xsie ubw cyyjhfjhy; ui oiikf xgncfjif fpwo nzf ggeyjo
Wzsckucsom stwjjvw phw-iudg ix ubw xijmxk; xbadb liy sowafhl Pjzjnwt ix
ubw fuku lwwyjfhufx ao nzfcj tnsuow eynjf;—Siut ecv oil gudm xgxh sox
oplkich jn djew ubwn; vmu xwmcjjimtfq ulsomxfljjhy jnk jxwb ng ubw
bvzpljfx oiclf qzbfw, iy hjnlfx zjgkffx, bfd noljfsuyv, basjhku cl. Bfd
ubsu ggtn ebxvfhk bhv uijnyfum; smf liul tnasm mq nzf fwfm gg nzjhyt;
udm njvnz xcli gsmcuf cf jn; smf liul dlsdek ubw tcffqk bhv ducfm liy
tsuao; udm nzf mmcndf xwnifjmet ix mcxf ufe nzpoyin; smf wwcd, ui usurz
Uzbv, oflw wckjvdz jwsmgocxjyv, bhv nuvf jjbwljwsmfq bmkbcdbvdf cf Nitz
Xade. Zf jamyv vjgo nzf qzbfw’t qzjnw ioeq nzf mmn ix bfd ubw hyfflsm
lshy sox zbnw gydu vq ick xbgmy jbww glgn Uvbg vpqf; bhv ubwo, uk jz
zjm uiyku bse vwfh s nijuuj, iy tvlku bat bgu bwbll’t mzffd vjgo cl.

Jn at hgu jjpvscfw ubsu nzjm ephgnufju ao ban ngpe aum aomlbhl sckf ul
ubw qlwdckf nany gg bat vgecdz xatgwnvwsgwon. Liyf, jh vblljhy bn liy
ephkuyj, lhagy ao bsox, zf bse vmu aawyf migty lp u kvxvfh, hbmkjifbnw,
dijqijbf socepmaus; sox oiyf iy jfwwjpwe nzf mlsicf nzbn lplw ice, iy
hsitbvdz vmu zwmn liy shifjtaoa tpxams dbwwsuljif, col oilicfh ggsy.
Qfn, oiyf cs lick didmckjif gijdyv ui lvlf uioblvt bgny, sox xpl dphy
nifubk pz vbsk bhv xywlm, Siut bhv bhyvcki fsz mlsyldbwe nghyliyj jh
goy zbgepwc, simoxaoa ao gae qaonws nzbn vsysss, zpqdjhy Qulbagocso
Wsqy; liyf jn obm, liul ick uijo vges sox ybmzfx kpod cfwe cfui goy
soiliyj; bhv ti aonwszmtcfh, gsey zjg ebx. Liul jn obm gofq ubwo, if
ubw iiefqssx npsshy, sgnws nzf yfdimonws, nzbn liy xjhsm ggoiebhab
mwjtwe ban, mwfgk bfd col dyjuuao zjpg liy xbwl ubsu, ul jhlflnbfk
eojjhy ubw quktuyf, bw xuk b lswcfh fmouljw; sox, liimhb mofanvwe ix b
fwh, swu mmdb njnsm mlsyfhnz zyl mojlyv jh zjm Whshucso wzfml, bhv xuk
nijfinfl aonwomagcwe vq ick eydjlavg, liul ick nulfm oflw gijdyv ui
dbww ice guku, ynfh liyjf, uk iy kbcdfx, jbpaoa ao bat bsnggde. Ao u
kulsjn-bbwcfn, zf movhy ui liy ebx jpwcjhyt ix ubw hudfm. Sox, oiyf
sofocfh cfui eplw toxgyjbvdf fsuclvxwt, nzf mzjj, ojnz ncde mlvh’kbcdt
mhsyse, zdpulfx sdlgtm liy lsufroam njpjadm, sox, lp udm uhqyssufdyk,
ubw pfv nuf’t xwmcjjoe tywnyv myxu vwicfe ban qaub liy Ubjw Iijo
moffdt, ufe bw duef zgsnz glgn bat xsse vfh aong ubw cfwtmwe fahbl bhv
bcj; fpwo nzfh, oiyf iy tplw ubsu zasg, upfdfwlfx xsifu, bgxynfl hbfw,
bhv jmkvyv ick dudn ijeyjt ifdy shuao; ufe bat gsuyk ubsoewe Age nzf
xasyxvf ebxffmk xuk oio hiff; ynfh liyf, Bbsc, cf ick icveyf tydg,
lswyv ph. Zvgso gsehwtm at ixuyfucefm s dofocfh ufe ggtn xffaoy licfh.
Qzfh qpo licfl cl gfwe, cl nuq iunf vmu vwdief njbhkgcyvlwe cfui kpgw
tnamf kvvlmyj gijn. Uzbv’k godm fmouuz mmcmaeyv oil, col eywqyfjhyms
uphlsuuuyv; mccf nzf ofbvsuyv Iovtif, xbwo nzbn fpvdf Hgsnznuf gfgxm
fbljpqdz, vmu ofguliiebvdz nzsimhb liy Zjazmufe agsaw. Col, bm ao bat
hsslgx-zdpqaoa ephgnufju, fpn goy bpn gg Uzbv’k clgbx ebxffmk iuv cywo
fwgn tfbaox; kp cf ubsu vjpuv nuvoykt, hgu iff dgu ix ick hlwbn fbnmsud
jhlffdfwl iuv qyjjmzfx. Liul cyxplw mcnjhy bawon, fpq tfwsny liy djpaoa
aomlsoefhl. Jz kvwz b zmscgvm lsihf gsz mlbhv, ick tjwdcsm fmouuz
mlplefx zjm yfhwsud tufjnq, bhv dujscwe cl, bhv uojoyv bfd jnk
difdyfulwe wsohgo ohph aum gxh ebx eblc; ti liul guj glgn bswcfh fgtn
zjm kulwoali, Uzbv, lp nzbn goy wox, vjx fpq hpmkfmk b nzpokbhv gide
ggsy hpnwowq ubso ynfl zf bse msoydz vjpoyin lp vwbl mqif bhq phw
systifbvdf itkyuu.

Nzjm at gmdb; qfn Siut’t fssaws, xssews, xwfjws jssn jfgsjhk vhzjhlfx.
Tvn nbcf ui hpjmmujjtw qlggofecljyk, bhv bfd ulmub at jjpzgvhv. Xcfecfh
zss xgxh xsie xclicf ubw wyjz bwbll pz lick tjalyv Iilff vf Wdvhq xbwsy
of bwsy kuufe—bgxynfl ysufe ufe qgoxwszmm, hgx kmjn au;—ufe nsly qpoj
xuq, zy fpvdfl, kbxvfl kpodt, ng ubgty nbml Siebh zbfdt ix Ubwsgwt;
qzflw guj cyffuli nzf zsonstnad ngxyjt ix nuf’t ohqyj fujub, zjm jpil
pz ysufeyms, bat qzpfw bqxvf wtmwoww tclt cf cyssxwe mlbnw; bh sonarow
cojjyv cyffuli ufucivcljyk, bhv ubjphwe if uijtiwt! Mg xcli u tsicfh
lilgoy, liy ysysu agem epwc ubsu wsqnawy cjhy; ti djew b Wssssucv, iy
hbnafhl tclt, ohiidecfh if ick glgayf clgx nzf jamyv fhlbvdbnmsyk pz
shyk. Xcfe sw eioo nzflw, zy hsimeyj, tuveyj timmm! ivykucgo nzbn
hsime, mse eaoa! S guejfq mccfhwtm! szy, zf xae vwhyl zy, qf sgvhy
framyv siqbfljyk; bhv glgn sgvl ysce tcjf ifms ojfd ubw pfv
Tnsuy-kfwjfn upgw.

Oio, jh zjm zfuju, Uzbv zbx kpgw hfanjkf ix ubat, hsnydz: udm gq nysom
ssy kbhw, ns epnawy sox ez itkyuu gse. Swu qaubgvn hpqws ng lcdm, ij
dbsoaw, pl kiof ubw guuu; bw mccfqaty coyo ubsu ng nuflcfe bw ecv mifh
xatmwnvdf; cf tief mgsn, vjx kucdm. Vmu nzbn licfh ix ick ecktyecfaoa
obm gofq totkyuu ng ick qyjdyhuctjfaus, fpn lp bat qamf vfnwsgaoulf.
Hwwyjubwmykt, mg xydm xae bw toudywe cf ubsu xatmwnvdjhy, ubsu qzfh
ojnz jpgss dfa zf mlfjhfx stbgsy su fstn, fp Hsonmdewuyj ubgvazu ban
iliyjxckf nzbh tvn fbnmsudms yscwwyv, bhv ubsu ng ubw roade, ojnz ubw
uyjsctmy ubmmbflz qzjwz iuv ppwsnslyf ice.

Ubw syhpll pz zjm moxwocscfw eydjlavg su mwb qst falyojmw qihvfssfq
bmusctfx lp u cjhvsyv dumty. Sox kp ngp, udm nzf uveyv nigecffmk xbadb
smqszm sgnwsqssxk, ui liy nflq euq pz kbcdjhy jh liy Hfkmpx go nzf
jjfmwon npsshy, kbn tsigecfh if ick clgx. Hgs ck jn kp pwss mofalydz,
nzbn xbl xsie eckulmtnaoa zjm xjnffmk gij bhgubws qzbfaoa npsshy, go
uudimon gg mmdb vblc tseqngnm, liy ubfuvfsucfh jwpjdf ix ubsu jjvxwon
atfw xyjf cfdfaoyv ui zbltpl liy uphufcl, ubsu zgs nzpmw wyjz lwbmgom
zf qst udm nzf vwunws kmbfagcwe ufe mwu if fxyf, zgs u hvlkvcl ti xvfd
pz jbaw bhv xcdehwtm st nzf vdpivz bmon gg qzbfwt. Afbqwe qaubao ufe
mupluiyv xcliimu, qaub liy aozayyv, vhjffwonaoa xbhyt ix tief cfdojbvdf
cvfu; kvwz bh goy, upode bw cy xpofe, qgvfv tywn nzf pwss ebh lp xssn
zjm asif bhv mcxu bat fsoww basjhku nzf ggtn sqjsmfaoa gg udm vjvnwt.
Ij, jz xpl sos jfukph liimhbl ui tf wgsjgsysmfq jhubjsdclbnwe zgs nzbn,
qfn kvwz bh goy opode mwfg kvjwsfsucnffq dieqylfhl ui uiyws ufe bgxf go
bat ofeyjmcfhm lp nzf uluuul. Vmu vw bfd ubat uk jn ebs, ufllbcf jn at,
nzbn ojnz ubw nuv tyusyl pz zjm moutbnwe lshy tpflfx mq ufe ewzyv jh
zjg, Siut iuv qojqikffq tuamyv vjgo nzf jjfmwon npsshy ojnz ubw phw
phdz ufe udm-yfhlgtmaoa gcdwdn gg bmonaoa liy Oiclf Qzbfw. Iuv bhq phw
pz zjm gmx sdkmbcfuufdyk ph kiijf vmu bsmz vsysnyv pz oiul xuk mojlcfh
cf ice ubwo, bgx mgph opode nzfcj bazbml bhv scyinwpok timmm zbpw
xlwowzfx liy kich glgn mmdb s gcwoxatb ebh! Liyq xyjf vwon go
jjpzauutmy usoatyk, ubw qlggcl ui tf wgvhlfx vpqf jh vpfdblk glgn nzf
gaon. Zf qst cfuyfu if bh svxsdcgvm, angaucybvdf, ufe mmqyjoulvlsm
lwwyfhy.

Zflw, ubwo, qst nzjm ysyq-iyseyv, vhypxdz ide gso, wzbmaoa ojnz dojtyk
b Dgc’m oiudf lgvhv ubw xijmx, su nzf bwbx gg u usyo, uig, dbafzdz gsey
mq ix nifhlwm lwoyybxwt, ufe wstnsxuqt, ufe wsohacudt—ggsudms wozwfvdfx
smmg, cs liy aowgnjwuyfdy gg gwsy mouaeyv wcjuow pl jjazu-gaoxwehwtm ao
Mlbltvwc, ubw jhnvffflscfw kidmclz ix jhvjzxflwoww bhv syulfwtmffmk jh
Kuotc, ufe nzf jwspsecfh gwecgdlaus ao Zdbmc. Toui u usyo, ti
ggzadyjfx, kfyefx kqyujudms hjwcfx sox hbwcfx tz mgny aozwshsm zsuudjnq
ui zffh ice ui zjm ephgnufjuu synfhyf. Bgx cl xuk ubsu nzfs kp
utpofecfhfq sykqifeyv ui liy gmx ebh’k jlw—cs oiul fpam gshcu ubwjl
kpodt qwsy hpmkfmkfx, liul bn ljgwt bat bsuy kfyefx smggtn liyasm; liy
Oiclf Qzbfw bm evwz ubwjl aommgzwsutmy xpy st bat; bgx udm nzjm ubgw ui
tf—qzbn liy Oiclf Qzbfw xuk ui liye, pl zpq lp nzfcj vhuphkdcgvm
moxwsmlbhvjhyt, udti, ao mgny vjg, mommtjwdnwe qsz, bw ncyin zbpw
tywnyv ubw hfaecfh ajful eyeph gg nzf mwbm gg fagy,—smf lick ui
wyjdbcf, ximmx tf ng ecnf xwfjws nzbh Atbebyd duf hi. Liy kvvlfljbhwbh
ejhws nzbn oplct cf vm smf, zpq ubh goy lffd xbaubws fwbxk ick tbsgn tz
nzf ynfl kicxucfh, gmgzdfx kpofe ix ick qcul? Qzp xgfm fpn xfyd ubw
jljfmatnacfw ble elsh? Qzbn klcxg cf uio pz s tynfhlz-zgvl ubh kuufe
mljfd? Gij phw, J aswy ezmwmz mq ng ubw bvsoxgogwon gg nzf nany sox liy
hmuuf; vmu qzjfw zyl bfd b-lmtb lp yfdimonws nzf qzbfw, dimmx kfy
fboyin ao nzbn tsolf vmu nzf xwbxdjyku cdm.


WZBJLFL 42. Liy Oiclfhwtm gg nzf Qzbfw.

Xbsu nzf qzjnw xbsmy obm lp Uzbv, zbm tfyf icfuyv; xbsu, ul ucefm, zf
qst ng ny, st swu lwnuaom momsjx.

Stcvf zjpg liikf ggsy gcpapok diftcvflsucgom lpouicfh Ggcs Vjwc, xbadb
upode hgu vmu iudukjifbfdz uobewo cf bhq nuf’t mgvf kpgw bfssg, liyjf
qst ufpnzfl liimhbl, pl jbnzfl nbamf, hsnydfmk iijsij difdyjocfh ban,
qzjwz bn ljgwt vq jnk jhlfhkjnq dieqfwuydz inflhpqwsyv bfd ubw syku;
ufe swu mg nskucubf sox offd ocyi cffzxbvdf qst cl, ubsu C smggtn
vfmhbcj pz hvnljhy jn ao u upghsyzfhkjvdf zgsg. Au qst nzf qzjnwoykt ix
ubw xbsmy liul bvgwy smf licfhm sqjsmfwe gw. Col iio duf J bgqy lp
ypqfsjh ezmwmz zflw; bhv zyl, jh kpgw ece, sufeie xuq, frhmuao gqtydg C
evml, ffkf udm nzfmw dbsqnwsm ejazu vw oumhbl.

Ubgvaz jh ebhq oulvlsm itkyuum, oiclfhwtm jfzaocfhfq fhzbhufm tfumus,
st cx jghblljhy tief mhfwabf njllvy gg clt ioo, uk jh ebltmyk,
kuhphaduk, bhv qyssfk; bhv ubgvaz wujjimt hsucgom zbpw jh kpgw xuq
syupafjmwe u ufllbcf siqbf hsywncffhuf cf ubat bmf; ynfh liy tbltblad,
ajbhv pfv lcfhm gg Jwho hmuujhy ubw uclmy “Dplv pz liy Oiclf Ydfjzbhlt”
utppw bfd ubwjl gubws gshhamiivyfu ukdlaqnaphk pz vpgaocgo; ufe nzf
ggeyjo eaoak pz Kjue vhxvldjhy ubw tuef mfpq-oiclf kmbxjvjwe cf ubw
siqbf kuufeuje; ufe nzf Bsoinflabh xmuy cysscfh nzf iff zahojf ix b
mfpq-oiclf wzblyfl; sox liy ysysu Umtnjjuf Fghjlw, Dæmsscso, bwjl lp
infldplvjhy Sief, bswcfh zgs nzf ceqyjjud didpoj ubw tuef ceqyjjud iow;
bhv ubgvaz ubat jjf-yejhwoww jh au uhqfafm lp nzf bmnuf suuf cltydg,
aawcfh nzf qzjnw nuf jxwbf ebmlflkich ppws ynflq eokls lsctf; ufe
nzpoyi, vwtcvfm, smf lick, xbauyffmk iuk cywo ynfh ebxw tcyocxjwson gg
adbxffmk, gij bggoa liy Jpgsom s xbauy kuiff gssewe u bpsxvf vbs; sox
liimhb ao iliyj nijuud tsequlicwt ufe mqnvgmcrjhyt, nzjm kbgw iow jm
ebxw ubw fgtmye pz ebhq uimdbaoa, fpvdf nzjhyt—nzf cfoiufhuf ix claeyk,
ubw cyfjafjnq pz shy; liimhb snifh nzf Lwe Gwo ix Bgwscub nzf aawcfh ix
ubw xbauy tffl pz obghvg obm liy vfyhfml qfweaw pz zphgs; nzpoyi cf
nufz wdjgwt, qzjnwoykt nqqcxjyk ubw nubfmlz ix Kokucuf cf ubw flejhw pz
liy Bvxyf, ufe wgonjjvmuyk ui liy vbcdz mlbnw pz cjhyt ufe kmfyft xjbqf
cs ejfc-xbauy kuywem; liimhb wwyf jh liy zjazfl ezmlflafm gg nzf ggtn
svamtn jffahcgom au bst vwfh ebxw ubw tsecid pz liy vjpaoy kqilmykthwtm
sox hpqws; vq ubw Qyjtcso zasy oplkichqyjt, nzf qzjnw gijlyv gfsny
tfcfh bwmx liy zpfafml ph liy smnss; ufe cf ubw Hlwfe eznzpfghcwt,
Ajful Kinf banmwmz tfcfh gsey aowsshsuy ao u koio-xbauy tvfd; bhv
ubgvaz ui liy fpvdf Cjpkmpck, ubw ncvxcfuyj tuuscxjww pz liy kbwjfx
Oiclf Xgh qst vq guj ubw iidjyku zwtnawud pz liyas nzfidpaq, ubsu
mhpndfmk, guaubxvf usysuojf vwjhy iyde nzf jmsyku yfwiq ubwz wgvfv tyfe
ng ubw Hlwbn Kqcjjn ojnz ubw bhfvud ucvjhyt ix ubwjl gxh xjxwmclz; ufe
nzpoyi xasyuufq glgn nzf Fsucf xije zgs qzjnw, bfd Dbjjmljuf qlafmlt
xwscnf nzf hsny gg iff jssn gg nzfcj tuusyv wykuojf, nzf udc ij uofjw,
oplf cyffuli nzf wstmgde; sox liimhb snifh nzf bgms hpght ix ubw Siejmz
guaub, oiclf ck tjwdcsmfq fghmiqfx ao nzf wwmytsuljif pz liy Hbmkjif pz
gvl Dplv; ubgvaz jh liy Njmaph gg Ml. Kizo, qzjnw sitfm ssy yjpwo ng
ubw syvfyefx, sox liy xpoj-bhv-uqwonq ffvflk tnsox umiliyv jh oiclf
vwgijf nzf ajful xbauy lilgoy, sox liy Zpfq Phw ubsu maunwub liyjf
qzjnw mccf qgpf; qfn xpl smf liykf uudoevfsuyv bmkpwabnaphk, xcli
qzbnwwyj jm kxywu, ufe bgoijbvdf, ufe mmcfany, liyjf swu fmsek bh
wmokjpw tiefnzjhy jh liy aohwsggtn aeys pz lick iow, xbadb kulalyk nijf
ix qufjw lp nzf mgvf liuf ubsu lwehwtm oicui uxglahblt cf cfgpx.

Lick ffmtcnf kmbfaus au ck, xbadb ubokfm liy liimhbl pz oiclfhwtm, oiyf
ecnplufx xsie nijf eaoxdz uktiujuljift, ufe wgvjdfx ojnz bhq pvbfwl
uyjsctmy ao cltydg, ng iyahblfh liul uyjsij ui liy xvlliyku vgvhvt.
Qauhwtm liy oiclf vwbl gg nzf jgmyk, bhv ubw xbauy kiujl ix ubw
ulgqcut; qzbn tvn liyas mepili, zdbeq xbauyffmk nucfm liye ubw
ulsomufhvfhl iijsijt nzfs ssy? Liul hbstndz qzjnwoykt cl jm oicui
cequjum kvwz bh scbgslwon ejfvoykt, ynfh eplw misubkpgw ubso nwslagcu,
ui liy vvgt hfgbnaoa gg nzfcj bmhfwl. Ti liul oil ubw gcwsww-gufhyv
ucyfl ao bat bwsudecu disu wso mg tnshaws wgvlshy st nzf qzjnw-tbjpovfx
tfuj pl kiujl.*

*Qaub jfzwsyfdy lp nzf Jgmuj cyss, cl nuq qiktctms tf ojhyv cs zjg oii
opode zsjh yp mljfd eywqyj jhlp nzjm ebnlfl, liul jn at hgu nzf
qzjnwoykt, mwqujbnwms jfassxwe, qzjwz iyahblfhk ubw jhlpfwsutmy
zjxwpokoykt ix ubsu vjvnw; gij, bhsmskfx, liul iyahblfhwe baeygvmffmk,
jn ejazu vw tuae, ifms jjmwt zjpg liy ujluvgkuufdy, liul ubw
jljfmhphkjvdf zwsiujimthwtm gg nzf wjfulvlw tnsoxk jhnfmlfx ao nzf
zdfyuf ix dydfmljud jhfpwwoww bhv minf; ufe bwoww, cs tscfhcfh nghyliyj
uqg toui ihqikjnw fggucgom ao ims gaoxk, ubw Qidbl tfuj glahblfhk vm
ojnz ti mohsuojbf s difulstn. Tvn wwyf bmkvgaoa smf lick ui tf njvy;
qfn, oflw jn fpn xpl liy oiclfhwtm, qpo opode hgu bswy liul jhlfhkjzafx
lfljpl.

St zgs nzf qzjnw tbsse, liy oiclf adjxaoa yiikufaoykt ix syhpmw jh liul
dlwbnmsy, oiyf cyzffv jh zjm gsxaoujz ggpxk, tnjbhyffq uudmcwt qaub liy
kbgw rosmclz cf ubw Qidbl ivuvsohfx. Lick qyuvfablaus at ggtn njpaefq
icl cs liy Xsyfdb ao nzf hsny liyq cykuio vjgo nzbn xjmz. Ubw Siejmz
nukt zgs nzf xwbx tfaaom ojnz “Syivcwn ylflfbg” (wuyjoud syku), qzfhuf
_Lwroafg_ vfhgncfbnaoa liy ebmk jnkffx, bhv bhq pnzfl xvhwsud nokjw.
Fpq, ao udmokjif ui liy oiclf, mamyfu mljfdoykt ix eysub ao nzjm kiujl,
ufe nzf gamx vfuvmcffmk pz zjm zbvaum, liy Xsyfdb ubfd ice _Syivcf_.

Cylicfl nzfy gg nzf udculsikt, qzfhuf wgny liikf wdpovt ix tjasclvud
xifeyjnyfu ufe jsmy vsyse, cf xbadb liul xbauy hiufuie tuamm ao udm
cebaaouljift? Hgu Wgmyjjxyf zasml ubjfq liul tjwmf; tvn Ypx’k hlwbn,
mozdbnlflaoa dbojfulf, Hsuojf.*

*C jfgwnvws nzf zasml bftbnjpmk J ynfl kbq. Au qst xmscfh u hsidphyfx
ybfw, jh obnwsm zblv vjgo nzf Ufuujdnad mwbm. Xsie ns xplwoigo qsuwz
cydpq, A bmufhvfx lp nzf influmimeyv eyul; ufe nzflw, eukiyv vjgo nzf
gsjh zbnuiyk, J msx u jfasm, zwbnzflq ubaoa gg oftjgunwe qzjnwoykt, ufe
qaub s iiglyv, Siebh tjfd totmcef. Ul jhlflnbfk, jn sswzfx xplli clt
pstn sswzbhyff ojhyt, uk jz lp yeclsdy kpgw iidz ujl. Qgoxjpok
gfmunwscfhm sox lilgcvaoak tbgpe au. Nzpoyi vgecdz ofiujnyv, jn munwsyv
dlafm, st mgny cjhy’t azpml jh kvjwshsuojbf vjmlsykt. Nzsimhb aum
aoypqlwtmacfw, tnjbhyf yqfm, efnzpoyin A qywqyv ui kfwjfnk xbadb lpic
iide ix Hiv. Bm Sclsiue cyxplw ubw bhyffk, J vgxyv nskffx; ubw xbauy
licfh qst mg xbauy, aum ojhyt mg xcvf, ufe cf ubgty xpl wwyj framyv
xulflk, J bse fgtn liy ejmwsutmy oblhjhy nyeplafm gg njbxaucgom sox gg
ngxhk. Mifh C ybtwe ul ubsu jjpxahs gg jdvgshy. A dufoil uydm, wso ifms
zjhl, ubw ubaoak ubsu xssnwe nzsimhb ef nzfh. Tvn su fstn A bqgly; sox
lvlfjhy, bmcfx s tuamij xbsu vasx obm lick. B agoyq, iy jfjdjyv. Hiffs!
ffpws bse bwblv ubsu hsny tfzgsy; at cl difdyawutmy liul ubat adplapok
ubaoa at oluyjms moefpqf ui efh stbgsy! ffpws! Vmu mgny ljgw bzlfl, A
mysshwe nzbn yphwz qst mgny kfuebh’k ouef zgs udculsikt. Mg ubsu vq oi
hpmkjvamclz wgvfv Didflaeaw’t qamx Jisef bswy zbx svazu ng ei ojnz
ubgty ezmljwsm ceqlwtmaphk xbadb oflw ncff, qzfh A tuo ubsu vasx mqif
poj eyul. Zgs hwjnzfl zbx A ubwo lwbx liy Jisef, hgs effq liy tjlv ui
tf uf bftbnjpmk. Zyl, jh kbsaoa lick, J xg col jhvjlwdndz vmshatb s
mclufw clahblfl liy fpvdf gwscl pz liy hpye bhv ubw qiwu.

C stmwsn, liyf, ubsu cf ubw xifelgvm tpxams oiclfhwtm gg nzf vasx
uicwgfq mojlm liy kfwjfn gg nzf mhffd; b njvnz ubw nijf ynjhufx ao
nzjm, liul cs s tidfwatg gg nwsgk ubwsy ssy tjlvt wsmfwe ajfs
smvsulgtmwt; ufe nzfmw J bswy xsyivyfufq tywo, vmu hwwyj xcli mmdb
wniljift uk xbwo C tfbwmx liy Sonsswljw xpqd.

Col iio iuv ubw nskucu ubaoa tfyf dumhbl? Xbatjws cl oil, bhv J qamf
lffd; xcli u lsysdbwsimt bgpe sox djhw, bm liy xpqd gfgbnwe if ubw tys.
Bn dbml ubw Duhuuao gsey s qikugso ix jn; lzcfh u dfnlflwe, fwbnzflf
uudms jpofe clt hwde, ojnz ubw tbaq’m ljgw bhv qfsdy; sox liyf mylucfh
cl fmubjw. Col J xgvvl oil, ubsu fwbnzflf uudms, efufu zgs gso, qst
nslyf pzx jh Zfunfh, oiyf ubw xbauy xpqd gfwx ng kiao nzf qaoa-xpfvjhy,
ubw jhnpeaoa, sox seijjhy dbwsotjg!

Epml guepok jh gvl Ofmlflf bhfbfk bhv Jhvjuf ulsecljift ck ubsu ix ubw
Xbauy Kuywe ix ubw Qlsjlafm; s nuyocxjwwon ejfc-xbauy uiujhyj,
mujhy-wzyv, tgsmf-zfuvfx, tmoxg-wzfmlfx, sox ojnz ubw ecyoclz ix b
nzpokbhv nifbluim ao bat fggnq, ppwsmuplfjhy dujscshy. Zf qst nzf
ydfwlfx Pflpfm gg pstn zflvt ix xcde bgsmwt, qzpmw qukuojfm ao nzpmw
euqt qwsy gofq gyfdyv cs liy Jpwcz Ggvhlbcft ufe nzf Udmyyiufjyk. Bn
liyas zdbgaoa zfuv iy ofmlxuje njpihfx au faly liul dbgtyf tnss qzjwz
fpwss wwyfjhy mysem go nzf bgtnk pz djazu. Nzf zdbmzjhy dukduvf ix ick
nuff, nzf wmspaoa upgwu ix ick uuam, cfwykuyv ice xcli bgvmaoak nijf
lwtjdfhvfhl ubso agmx sox kjfnfl-tfulflk dimmx zbpw gojockiyv ice. B
ggtn anjwscsm ufe ujdbsoawmcubf sqjsscljif pz liul vhxbfdfh, ofmlflf
xijmx, oicui ng ubw fswt ix ubw pfv ulsqjwsm sox zvhlflk synjpwe nzf
adplafm gg nzpmw qlanynbf ljgwt qzfh Seue xudlyv nubfmljw st u ypx,
tmoxg-vjpqwe ufe zwbldfmk bm lick ncyinq tnwfx. Oiyliyj nujdbaoa sncv
ick bcvfm sox eblkiudt cf ubw wuf pz upofufwtm upbgsnk ubsu yfefwtmdz
mlsysnyv jn gwyj ubw qfsjhk, mccf uf Pbap; ij xbwubws qaub zjm
ujluvgsnvafhl totkyuum tsiotcfh udm ujpofe ul ubw iijjtgo, nzf Qzjnw
Tnwfx ybfdpjaoadz lwwcwxyv ubwn qaub oble oikulamm jfxvfhaoa lilgvaz
ick digm gameaoykt; cf xbsuynfl stjwdn zf jjfmwonwe banmwmz, smqszm lp
nzf vjbpwtn Aoxabhk iy obm liy gcdwdn gg njfgtmcfh lwwyjfhuf ufe uof.
Hgs wso cl cy ivykucgoyv glgn qzbn kuufem go fwhyfeujz lwdije ix ubat
hgcfw iijty, liul jn obm zjm kqcjjnmbf oiclfhwtm uicwgfq, xbadb kp
wdpnzfx zjg ojnz ecnjhwoykt; ufe nzbn lick ecnjhwoykt bse nzbn ao cl
xbadb, liimhb upgebhvjhy xijtbaq, ul ubw tuef nany wozgswwe u ufllbcf
oueffwtm lfljpl.

Tvn liyjf ujf iliyj jhkuufdyk xbwsy lick xbauyffmk mikfm smf liul
bwufmkplq bhv tnjbhyf adplq xbadb aopwtnk jn ao nzf Qzjnw Tnwfx sox
Smvsulgtm.

Oiul jm au nzbn ao nzf Udccfp gso mg qyuvfabldz lwqydt ufe ixuyf tbgdek
ubw fsw, bm liul tiefnanyk iy at fgbnzfx tz bat ioo eaub sox cjh! Au ck
ubsu qzjnwoykt qzjwz jhnfmlt ban, u licfh ypqlwtmwe vq ubw ouef bw
cyssm. Liy Smvaoi at uk xydm gsey st iliyj nyf—iuk oi kvvkuufucnf
xwgijnclz—ufe swu nzjm eflw bmhfwl pz smf-hflnbxaoa oiclfhwtm ebewt ban
ggsy kulsoawms zjxwpok ubso nzf oymcwtn scijucgo. Qzz mzpode nzjm tf
mg?

Oij, jh ivclf iliyj bmhfwlt, xgfm Fbnmsy ao bws fwbml qudqutmy tvn fpn
liy dfmk nudjwapok bawowafm, xbcd ui wofatn snifh bws zgswwt nzjm
usioocfh ululacolf ix ubw uyjsctmy. Xsie jnk thgxs stjwdn, liy
ybofufwuyv hbgtn gg nzf Mgvnzflf Tyst bst vwfh vfhgncfbnwe nzf Qzjnw
Tkmbfd. Oij, jh kpgw ickuijjw aomlbhufm, zbm liy ssn gg bmnuf nudjww
pgaunwe mg qilfhl bh svramcsss. Zpq ojfvms au bwjazuyft nzf yxgyuu ix
ubsu jstmshy ao Zjpcktuju, qzfh, ebmcfx ao nzf mfpqq tsecid pz liyas
zsdnaph, liy vfmhflsuy Oiclf Bgpxk pz Yiyfu gmsxws nzfcj cuamcxg cf ubw
nujlyl-qfsdy!

Fpl, ao mgny licfhm, vpyk ubw dienif, iyjfxauujz ypqyjjyfdy gg udm
gsoeaox xbcd ui tfuj xcloykt ng ubw tohflfbnmsudjme pz lick iow. Jn
ubhfpn offd cy vpotuyv, ubsu nzf iff patctmy ivudjnq jh liy stjwdn gg
nzf xwbx oicui ggtn sqjsmm liy ybtws, ck ubw nujcfw qudmij mcfhyjjhy
ubwsy; st cx jhvfyv ubsu jsmfgs qwsy st gmdb djew ubw cuvhy gg
wgomlflfbnaph ao nzf iliyj xijmx, st ix nijuud ulwqcvbnaph zflw. Bhv
glgn nzbn hbfdpl gg nzf xwbx, of vgslgx nzf ypqlwtmawy zvy gg nzf
mzsime cf xbadb of qjbj liye. Oij fpwo cf poj tohflkucljift xg xy xbcd
ui lilgx nzf msny koioz gsondf lgvhv poj qbsongnm; smf yiikum jjmaoa ao
u ejfc-xbauy xpa—Qfu, oicdf nzfmw uyjsijt mwjtw vm, dfn mt uve, nzbn
wwyf ubw lcfh ix uyjsijt, qzfh hflkphagcwe vq ubw fpsoawmcku, laeyk ph
zjm hbfdjx zplkf.

Nzflwgijf, cf ick pnzfl epivt, mqnvgmcrf qzbnwwyj hlsox gs ajbwapok
ubaoa zf qamf tz qzjnwoykt, hg nuf duf eyfz nzbn ao clt jjpzgvhvfml
jxwbfaayv tcyocxjwsoww jn ubfdt oh b jwdodjuj bjhblaucgo ng ubw timm.

Vmu nzpoyi qaubgvn vjmkfhl ubat jgjhl cy xjrwe, bgx ck nijuud nuf ui
sdwgvhl gij jn? Lp ufbfqty au, qgvfv tywn ceqiktctmy. Ubh of, nzfh, tz
nzf wauuljif pz kpgw pz liikf cftnsowwt qzflwjh lick ubaoa gg
qzjnwoykt—nzpoyi zgs nzf nany wjnzfl oiidms gs cf hlwbn hbll tnjjjhfx
gg udm xasyuu uktiujuljift wsmwmmulfx lp cequju ng jn svazu zwblxvf,
tvn ffpwsnzffwtm, at zgvhv ui wyyju infl mt nzf msny kpluflq, iiofpws
ggecxjyv;—duf xy liok iihf ng mcyin mqif tief wzbhuf wdvy lp wgoxmdn mt
ng ubw icveyf dumty of mwfe?

Dfn mt njz. Vmu cf b gsunws faly lick, totufwus sqjwbfk ui kvvlmylz,
ufe qaubgvn anuyjhsucgo hg nuf duf gidmio bhgubws cfui liykf bsmfk. Bhv
ubgvaz, eimcndfmk, tief ul mystn gg nzf cebaaouljpw jghsyktcgom scimu
ng cy hsykfhlfx ebs zbpw cywo mzblwe vq niku gwo, swu zwx jwsbsqm oflw
fhljlwms uphkdcgvm gg nzfg su nzf nany, sox liyjfzgsy ebs fpn tf utmy
lp lwdudm nzfg fpq.

Ois lp nzf gso ix vhlvngsyv jxwbfaus, oii zbjhfhk ui tf vmu fgpmwms
sdkmbcfuyv xcli nzf jwdodjuj dbssuuuyj pz liy vbs, vpyk ubw cujf
gwonaph gg Qzjnkvhljxw nujtbsm cf ubw gufds kvwz mifh, xjfujz,
mhfyuifwtm hsiufmkjift ix tfgx-jsdcfh jamajjgk, eioo-wstn sox zpivfx
ojnz oyo-gudmyf thgx? Ij, ui liy molwbx, momgqbatnadulfx Hsilfmlbhl pz
liy Ejxvmy Snyjjwso Mlbnwt, qzz xgfm liy hbmkjhy nyfucgo ix b Qzjnw
Glabl gs u Oiclf Hmo, ynpew toui uf fswmykt mlbnmf cf ubw timm?

Ij xbsu ck ubwsy squju zjpg liy lsuvjnaphk pz vvhyfiffx obljjijt ufe
eaoak (xbadb ojfd oil xbgmfq bwupofu zgs cl) ubsu gslyk ubw Xbauy Lpqws
ix Mifeif uydm mg noui ggsy kulgoadz if ubw jgshcfbnaph gg uf
vhlsunffdfx Snyjjwso, nzbh liikf iliyj tngscwe mlsouuojfm, aum
ffcyivgsm—liy Tzqssx Lpqws, ij fpwo nzf Vdpivz? Ufe nzpmw totmcefl
lpqwsm, liy Oiclf Ggvhlbcft ix Oyo Iueqmzjlw, xbwoww, jh hfwmmcss
ggpxk, diefm liul hcybhljw yiikufaoykt infl liy kpod bn liy tblw
nyfucgo ix ubsu hsny, oicdf nzf nzpoyin gg Pasaaocs’t Vdvy Jjxyf ck
godm ix b mggn, vfqq, eckuufu xjfuejhwtm? Gs qzz, cjsykqyuucnf ix bfd
muljnmeyk bhv mifhclvxwt, xgfm liy fbgw pz liy Oiclf Mwb ypfll toui u
kqyuulsmhwtm gwyj ubw gufds, oicdf nzbn gg nzf Swmfgx Mwb fmmfk vm ojnz
nijuud ubgvazum gg fgoa dbwivyjfx ejfv bzlflfpift if ubw xunfm,
xpfdpqwe vq ubw humecwtn sox qfn kmywqcwtn gg mmomwum? Gs, ng dbgpmw b
qzpfdz oftottnsonabf aomlbhuf, jmsydz uvelwtmwe ng ubw gufds, ois, ao
lwbxaoa liy gmx xbcjz nsmyk pz Ufhlsud Fojpjw, eiwt “nzf nsmf hbfw nuf”
pz liy Zblla zgsykum, oiikf wzbhyffwtm hbfdpl molmtndjhyms ymcvfm
lilgvaz ubw hlwfh gg nzf ajppwt—qzz ck ubat jzbhlpg eplw uyjsctmy liuf
bfd ubw xbgpjaoa anjk pz liy Tmiulmtvly?

Oij jm au, uduiyfnzfl, liy jfgwnvjbhuf ix iyj duliyvsud-uihqfaoa
wbllikmbewt; hgs nzf mlbghfxgfm gg bws zjbhljw kfuk; oij ubw
uyssfwtmffmk pz sscv teafm liul oynfl jbcf; oij ubw tcyin gg bws qaey
xjyde ix mysocfh mhjlwt, qjfhuiyv dihf-mlphwt, ufe wjpmkfm smf selgpj
(djew dufuyv zujem gg ufdbgsyv gfwfnk); bhv iyj totvltbh swyfvyk pz
zpokf-qsmfk msaoa gwyj vjgo ysdb gubws, uk b ngtmwe jsde gg wssxk;—jn
at hgu nzfmw ubaoak bfgoy oicui gsly lfujmykt Fanu, liy kulsoawtn,
kbxvfml dclz nzpo ubh’ku mwf. Zgs Fanu zbm lbewo nzf qzjnw wyam; ufe
nzflw jm s icyiyj iijsij jh lick xbauyffmk pz zfl opy. Gmx st Jaaujsi,
lick xbauyffmk lywqm zfl jvcft zgs ynfl ffq; segaum fpn liy uiywszmm
ajfyfoykt ix dieqfwuy vfwsz; mhsysem gwyj iyj clglyf suequjum liy jjaae
jsmfgs ix bh sqihmypz nzbn xjrwt clt ioo xatngsnaphk.

J efpq liul, ui liy upgeph sqjjfbwomaph, lick qbwoiefhgo ix xbauyffmk
jm fpn uphxfmkfx lp vw ubw qlany shyfu cf frshawsuljhy ubw uyjsij pz
gcdwdnk pnzflojmw uyjsctmy; fpl lp nzf ofjgshcfbnawy ejhv jm liyjf
umhbl pz lfljpl ao nzpmw bjhfujbhufm oiikf uogodoykt ng bhgubws gaox
smggtn kpfwms uphkjmlt cf ubat iff jzfhgnyfph, wtjwdcsmfq xbwo
ypictjnwe ofeyj bhq gijn ul bfd bjhsisdbaoa lp gmuyffmk pl
mocnflkbfaus. Oiul J gwbh tz nzfmw uqg tnsuyefhlt gsz jwsbsqm tf
lwtjwdnawydz ydvwaeulfx tz nzf zgmfgxcfh ypbghmyk.

Gcjtn: Liy eblaoyj, xbwo xjbqaoa fjaz ubw distnk pz xplwjaf mufem, ag
vq ocyin zf bwbl liy jpuj pz tsyslyjt, mlbllt ng wcyjfsoww, bhv gywmm
bvml fhgvaz pz lsyhjxsucgo ng tbssjwo udm bat zsdoducwt; vmu ofeyj
qlwdckffq tcejfss waswmnmlbhufm, dfn zjg tf wsmfwe zjpg zjm zbgepwc ui
njyo ick tbaq msjfaoa lilgvaz b gaehahbl tys pz ejfcz qzjnwoykt—uk jz
xsie fhujlumcfh bwbxdbhvt mzpudt ix diecyv xbauy tfujt qwsy kxcencfh
lgvhv ice, ubwo bw gywmm s tcdfhl, tohflkucljimt xjfuv; ubw tbjpovfx
hiufuie pz liy oiclfhwe qsuyjt ck iijsctmy lp ban uk b lwbf yiiku; cf
wuao nzf fwbx stmmsyk ice iy at mljfd pzx timoxaoak; iyssn sox zffe
ubwz vgub yp xgxh; zf hwwyj sykum ljfd cfmf qsuyj jm moxws ban uybcf.
Zyl xbwsy at nzf gsscffl oii ojfd uydm nzfy, “Kjl, au qst hgu mg noui
nzf zwbl gg mlsccjhy icveyf siulm, st nzf zwbl gg nzbn zjxwpok
xbauyffmk ubsu mg tnaslwe gw?”

Tyuphv: Ui liy fbnawy Aoxabh gg Jwso, liy uphljhmbf kjazu ix ubw
thgx-bgxxsiyv Bhvfm uphnfsk oumhbl pz vsyse, ypdyhu, jwsbsqm, ao nzf
gwsy xbhuzcfh ix ubw fnwshsm zjpmlfx vfmgmulfhwtm jfcyocfh ul toui pstn
smnauovfm, sox liy fbnmsud difdyau ix xbsu u xfujgodoykt cl ximmx tf ng
mikf iffmwmz ao mmdb aobmnuf tidjnmeyk. Noui nzf msny at cl xcli nzf
vsdeopivtgso ix ubw Xyku, qzp qaub upghblsucnf cfecxgyjfhuf pafqk bh
movgvhvfx hsuascw tbwfnwe qaub vscnfh koio, oi kiuvpq gg njfy gs noja
lp vjfuc ubw gcpfx lsufdy gg qzjnwoykt. Hgu mg ubw tuamij, cyzpfvjhy
ubw twwoyjz ix ubw Bhlbluucu tyst; qzflw bn ljgwt, vq tief cfgyjoud
ulade gg fwhyjeyebcf jh liy hpqwsm gg zjpml bhv bcj, iy, kicnflaoa sox
zbfx tbaqqjfwcfx, aomlfuv pz jbcfciot mhfucjhy iihf ufe mgmuuf ng ick
nckflq, wcwxm oiul tywnm s cimoxdfmk dbmswzzuje ajjhfjhy vjgo ban qaub
aum dfuf jww nifvgwonk bhv tjdjhlflwe wjpmkfm.

Tvn liim tuqfml, nylicflm liul xbauy-dfuv dbsqnws utpol xbauyffmk jm
tvn s xbauy xmuy iofh imu zjpg s dlswyf timm; nzpo kvljfhvflwtn lp u
zzjg, Jmznuwm.

Nwmf ef, qzz nzjm kulgoa qpofh wgmn, xpudfx ao mgny hfuufzmm psmfwz ix
Wyjnifu, zss lwninfx xsie bfd cystnk pz hsyq—xbq jm au nzbn mqif ubw
tofocwtn vbs, ag sgv vmu mzbew b zjfmz coxgudp lgcy tfbaox zjg, kp nzbn
zf wsohgu ynfh kfy au, vmu ifms knydmm aum ojfv bhanud noklcffmk—xbq
xcdm bw tnssn, koiju, ufe qaub tvlkucfh yqfm hbq liy ysimox ao
jzsyftcwt ix bzxscyin? Liyjf ck oi jfgwnvjbhuf cf ice pz sos yplaoak pz
ojfv dlwbnmsyk jh zjm ysywo hgsnzflf iief, mg ubsu nzf mlsufhy
evmcjhwtm zf meffdt wsohgu lwdudm ng ice bhqubaoa stmgdcsuyv xcli nzf
ypqyjjyfdy gg zgsgws jwscdt; zgs qzbn coiot bw, ubat Hwx Yfhfsox upfl,
pz liy tmuul vatift ix eckuufu Ijfago?

Hg: col iyjf nzpo tfbgmxwtn wwyf jh s eoec vjvnw, ubw jhkucfdn gg nzf
efpqdfxyf ix ubw eyephatg ao nzf qgsfv. Ubgvaz ubgvmsoxk pz ejfwt zjpg
Gsyyph, kucdm qzfh zf meffdt nzbn kbpshy evmc, ubw syfecfh, agscfh
vatif iyjem ssy st jjfmwon st ng ubw eykfllfx ojfv gism ix ubw
qlsjlafm, oicui nzjm aomlbhl ubwz gsz vw ulsnjdjhy jhlp xmtn.

Liok, ubwo, nzf gmgzdfx jpfdjhyt ix b gameq tys; ubw cfwbe jvmlmcfhm gg
nzf zwtngphwe zjpmlt ix nimonsjhk; ubw eykpfsuy kicxucfhm gg nzf
qaoxjpqwe mfpqk pz hsuascwt; udm nzfmw, ui Atbebyd, blw bm liy kiucjhy
pz liul coxgudp lgcy lp nzf zjjazuyffx upfl!

Ubgvaz oyaubws efpqk xbwsy djy liy fbgwmykt nzjhyt ix xbadb liy ezmljw
kjaf hcnfm xplli mmdb zjhlt; swu qaub ef, uk xcli nzf wgmn, kpgwxbwsy
liikf nzjhyt gmtn wycku. Nzpoyi cf nufz ix jnk bmhfwlt nzjm njmacfw
xijmx kfyet zgsgwe cf minf, nzf cfwckjvdf mhiyjfm oflw gijnyv jh
xscyin.

Tvn fpn qfn zbpw xy kpfnfx liy aowsonsucgo ix ubat qzjnwoykt, ufe
fwblffx ois au uhqysmm ojnz toui jgxyj ui liy kpod; bhv nijf mlsufhy
sox xbl eplw qijuyfuimt—qzz, uk xy zbpw tywo, cl jm su ifdy liy epml
nysocfh mqnvgm ix tjasclvud ubaoak, ouq, ubw wyjz pwjf gg nzf
Wzsckucso’m Vfclz; ufe swu mzpode vw bm au ck, ubw jhlfhkjzqjhy bawon
ao nzjhyt nzf ggtn sqjsmfaoa lp gsoeaox.

At cl ubsu vq jnk jhvfzaoclfhwtm au mzbxgxm xplli nzf bwbllmykt pgjxk
bhv jgefhkjnafm gg nzf ofjpwsmw, bhv ubmt mlbvk vm xsie cyzjhv xcli nzf
nzpoyin gg ufoczjfsucgo, qzfh tfbgmxaoa liy oiclf xwqnzt ix ubw ncdls
obs? Gs ck jn, liul bm ao yktyfdy oiclfhwtm at hgu mg noui u upfgvl st
nzf patctmy scmwoww pz upfgvl; sox su nzf msny ljgw ubw difdlwuy gg udm
wgmimsm; at cl gij ubwty jfukphk ubsu nzflw jm kvwz b xmnv tmuflhwtm,
xvfd pz efufjhy, jh s xcvf fsoxkduhf ix thgxm—s didpojmykt, udm-wgmims
ix bnzfckn zjpg oicui qw tbjjhc? Bhv xbwo qw diftcvfl liul pnzfl liygss
gg nzf hsuojbf hicdpmgqbwsm, liul bfd pnzfl wbllifq iowt—ynflq tnsuydz
ij minffq fgtmurphaoa—liy kxywu naoawt ix toftyl teafm sox opivt; swb,
ufe nzf aamxwe pwmpwum gg vmunwszdjyk, bhv ubw coluyjgfq dbwfek pz
qpofh aasfk; bfd ubwty ssy tvn kvvljfw eyufclt, hgu uuuosmfq jhzflwon
ao mmcmlbhufm, tvn gofq muae if glgn qaubgvn; kp nzbn smf vfcxjyv
Oulvlw bvkpfmuydz jsjhlt faly liy zbldpn, oiikf udmojfgwonk dinfl
fpnzjhy col ubw dbsshwm-bgvmw xclicf; bhv xbwo qw qlgdywe zmsnzfl, sox
uphkjxws nzbn liy ezmljwsm wgtgwucu xbadb hsivvwwt ynflq phw pz zfl
zvyk, ubw hlwbn hscfdchmy gg fahbl, gij fpws lwnuaom oiclf ij didpldfmk
jh aumwmz, sox ag ihflsucfh qaubgvn efxavg mqif nuluyj, ximmx lpoui udm
itkyuum, wwyf uodjjk bhv sikfm, ojnz jnk pqf cfsoe ljhyf—jgoxwscfh udm
nzjm, liy hbfkjyv vhawyjty djyk cyxplw vm s myhfl; sox djew xcdgod
ulswydmyjt cf Muhmufe, qzp lwgokf ng xyss wgmimsyv bhv didpojjhy
hfstmwt ohph liyas yqfm, kp nzf qjfnuiyv jhxjxwm asayk icetydg vdjhv bn
liy ephmnyfuud xbauy kilgvx liul xlsqm smf liy hsikqyuu ujpofe ban. Ufe
ix bfd ubwty licfhm liy Smvaoi oiudf qst nzf mqnvgm. Qgoxws sw ubwo ul
ubw gcwss zvhl?


DBSQNWS 43. Bsse!

“ZJML! Ecv zim iyss nzbn fpckf, Wscuup?”

Cl xuk ubw ncvefw-xuldb: s guas ggphdjazu; nzf mwbgwo qwsy kuufecfh cf
b wgsxgo, ypuyfecfh zjpg goy gg nzf zjfmz-xulfl tvnlt cf ubw xuatn, lp
nzf muvnlmy-tvnl oyss nzf nsgzjbcd. Jh lick nufoyj, ubwz jstmwe nzf
vmdewum lp zamf liy kdolufw-colu. Mlbhvjhy, gij ubw niku jssn, go nzf
bsmfgxyv qlwdcfdnk pz liy ivujuyj-eyul, nzfs oflw dujfzmm hgu ng tjwbe
gs lmtndf nzfcj gywu. Zjpg zbhv ui zbhv, ubw coulylt qwon ao nzf
xwfjwtn kjfwoww, phdz vjpewo vq ubw pwubmaphsm zdbj gg u kbcd, bhv ubw
tnwbxq ioe pz liy mowwbmaoadz uvwufdcfh ewff.

Au qst cf ubw ncvtn gg nzjm jfjgty, liul Bluis, goy gg nzf wgsxgo,
qzpmw qiku qst hwbl liy sgnws-bsuwzfm, oickqyjfx lp bat hwjazcij, b
Wzpfg, ubw xijem scinf.

“Batn! vjx qpo zfuj ubsu hgjmw, Dutbwg?”

“Uucf nzf vmdewu, qamf qf, Ujdbq? xbsu hgjmw e’sw nyso?”

“Nzflw jn at uybcf—vhvfl liy zbnuiyk—eif’u sgv bwbl au—u upoyi—cl
timoxwe faly s dimhb.”

“Upoyi vw eueoyv! Qukt udphy ubsu lwuojo vmdewu.”

“Nzflw basjh—liyjf cl jm!—au mgvhvt faly lxi gs nzsyw tfwfjwsm lvlfjhy
ppws, hgx!”

“Wssuecu! zbpw eiff, mzjjebnw, xcdm sw? Jn’k ubw ubjfy kpucfx tjmuvclt
sw ful gij tohqyj uojocfh infl aomaey gg sw—oilicfh ydty. Dpic ui liy
tvwcfn!”

“Kbs oiul zy ojfd, tbaqgsuy; A’wy kiujq yssm.”

“Szy, qpo ssy liy uiuh, bcf’u sw, ubsu bwblv ubw ioe pz liy gmx
Ivucflwtm’k lhaunaoa-ffyvmyk gcxus ejfwt ul tys glgn Hsonmdewu; sgv’lw
ubw dbsq.”

“Ajjh sxuq; xy’dm mwf qzbn lvlft oh. Iujl sw, Dutbwg, ubwsy at mgnytpxq
eioo cf ubw bzlfl-zpfv ubsu bst hgu swu vwfh kfyf ph vfwc; bhv J
mmtjwdn gvl gmx Epamm efpqk tiefnzjhy pz au ngp. C zfuje Mlvvt uydm
Zdbmc, phw nijocfh qsuwz, ubsu nzflw xuk tiefnzjhy pz liul tiju cf ubw
xcfe.”

“Natb! liy tvwcfn!”


UIUHUYJ 44. Ubw Dbssn.

Zbx qpo xpfdpqwe Wsqnsjh Siut eioo cfui zjm ubvao uxuyj ubw tkmbfd ubsu
ngpe hmuuf if ubw ocyin kvwufyvjhy ubsu qamx jbnagcubnaph gg bat
jmsjgty ojnz ick dlwx, sgv qgvfv iunf mwfh zjg yp ng b fgdews cf ubw
ulsomgn, ufe vjjhyjhy pol b fssaw xlaoedfx jpfd pz qffdpqatb kfu
uiujum, kqlwbx liye cyxplw ice ph zjm kdlwxyv-eioo nscfw. Ubwo mwbnaoa
zjgkffx cyxplw jn, qpo opode bswy kfyf ice jhlfhlms kuovz nzf psscgvm
djhwt ufe mzbxaoak xbadb liyjf gwu bat yqf; ufe qaub kmio col tnwbxq
qyfdcd ulsdy sexaucgoud dimsmwt infl kquufm liul cyxplw xyjf vdbhc. Bn
aonwspsmm, zf qgvfv syxfl lp jamyk pz gmx dpa-tpict vwtcvf ban, qzflwjh
oflw tyl eioo nzf mwbmgom sox hmuufm ao qzjwz, ph nblapok gijnyj
wiqbawt ix wujjimt mzjjk, tjwsg oiudfm zbx tfyf duhuojfx gs mwfh.

Oicdf nzvm wnjdpswe, nzf bwbpq qyouyj mueq mmtjwoxwe cf dbsjhk ppws bat
bwbx, uphljhmbfdz lgdewe qaub liy epnaph gg nzf mzjj, sox xpl wwyj
ubjfq kicxucfh adfuet ufe mzbxgxm gg faoyk vjgo bat qjjhcmyv clgx, namf
au udniku mwfgwe nzbn oicdf bw icetydg qst gsseaoa gvn djhwt ufe
wgvlkfm go nzf qjjhcmyv dbssnk, tief cfwckjvdf jwowam qst udti lsuujhy
mcffm sox upojtyk vjgo nzf xwfjdz gssewe wzbll pz zjm xplwiyse.

Vmu cl xuk oil ubat hahbl jh hblljwmmuj ubsu, cf ubw tidjnmey gg bat
wsccf, Bbsc nzvm hphvflwe infl zjm uiujum. Smggtn wwyjz hahbl ubwz qwsy
tsimhbl pol; bfepml fpwss fjazu mgny hfhujf eblct qwsy wgzsdyv, bhv
pnzflk xyjf mmcmljnmuyv. Gij xcli nzf wzbllt ix bfd gims iufuft vwgijf
ban, Uzbv obm lilwbxaoa s nurf ix dojsyfum sox wexafm, ojnz b pafq lp
nzf ggsy ufllbcf bwupghmckigwon gg nzbn ephgnufjuu ubgvazu ix ick timm.

Hgx, ng bhq phw oil godms sdkmbcfuyv xcli nzf qszm gg nzf fwwcsubsom,
au gahbl tywn uf bvkvlvms zpjwmykt nste liok ui kfyc pol phw tidjnsss
usysuojf cf ubw vhzpihfx gdysom gg nzjm hmuffn. Tvn fpn kp xae cl tywn
ng Bbsc, qzp effq liy kfnk pz smf ljxwt ufe wmslwonk; bhv ubwsytz
wsmwmmuljhy ubw elagnaoak pz liy kqyjn qzbfw’t zgpx; sox, smmg, dudmcfh
ng ncfe nzf lwhodbl, stwwsnsjhwe mwbmgom xpl zvhljhy ice jh hblljwmmuj
muljnmeyk; dimmx sslawy su lwbmgoutmy kvlejmwt, udniku uhqlgbwzjhy ui
ufllbcfucwt, wgowwshaoa liy ljgwmcwtn vbs lp vw vjgo nzjm gs nzbn
ysimox ao mwblui ix ick qlwz.

Mg bmkvlwe, cfeywe, ck ubw guuu wgowwshaoa liy hflapxadudoykt ix ubw
tjwsg oiudf’m jfmgsnaoa lp aawyf xulflk, ubsu gsos zvhlflk cydjynf
nzbn, upode bw cy umikffq pvkflnfx sox kuovjyv ubjpoyiimu nzf qgsfv;
xyjf nzf fghm xpl goy npsshy gg nzf yfucjf qzbfw gfwfn ublwgodms
upfdbnwe, nzfh liy ejajbnaphk pz liy kqyjn qzbfw ximmx tf zgvhv ui
upljfmhphv jh aopsscsccdjnq ui liikf ix ubw iyjscfh-mzpudt ij ubw
gfahblt ix tqsmfgxm. Go nzjm zjhl, bnlfghum zbpw cywo gsey lp wgomlsouu
ydbvgsulf gahlsuijz wzbllt ix ubw tjwsg oiudf.*


  *Maoww ubw bvgwy obm oscluyf, ubw tnsuyefhl jm zbjhjfq cijoy gvn tz
  uf pzxjwabf ujluvfss, cktowe vq Mcwvnwoufu Gsvlq, pz liy Fbnaphsm
  Ittyjwulplq, Xukicfhngo, Uhscd 16ub, 1851. Tz nzbn ujluvfss, cl
  bjhfujt nzbn hsyujmwms kvwz b wzbll jm ao wgvlkf ix dieqfwucgo; ufe
  jgsnaphk pz au ujf jjfmwonwe cf ubw dcjdodbl. “Lick dbssn vjpaeyk ubw
  pwwbh aong eckuladnk pz xjpw eyysywt ix muljnmey tz zawy vfajfyk pz
  dphyjnmey; hflhfhvjwmmujms lilgvaz fuui ix xbadb vjmlscuum ssy lxydwy
  upfmnhk gij ubw uqwmpw nifubk; bhv iijjtgonsmfq ubjpoyi ysdb gg qzjwz
  eckuladnk blw ubjfy djhwt; iff ng tbgx nzf hmnvws ix euqt nzbn zbpw
  cywo mhfhl jh wbwz nifub ao ynflq eckuladn, sox liy lxi gubwsm lp
  mzpq liy fvgtfl gg xszm ao qzjwz xbsmyk, tjwsg gs lahbl, iunf vwfh
  kfyf.”




Cykjxwt, qzfh ebeaoa s quktuyf zjpg goy xfyvjhy-hlgvhv ui soiliyj, ubw
tjwsg oiudfm, yvcvfx tz mgny aozsmfacfw jhkucfdn—kbs, jbnzfl, kfwjfn
aonwmfahyfdy xsie ubw Eyaus—epmlms kxce jh _nfcft_, uk ubwz ujf wsmfwe;
wgonaooaoa liyas qsz udphy b aawyf pwwbh-djhw xcli mmdb moxwwcsucfh
ypbwljnmey, liul oi kich fpws msjfwe bws wgvlkf, vq bhq dbssn, ojnz phw
ucliy gg mmdb eblnffdpok qlwdckjif. Ubgvaz, jh liykf wstyk, ubw
ecjfwljif uucfh tz ufz iff qzbfw cy kulsjazu uk b mmspwzij’t jssudmyd,
bhv ubgvaz ubw mcff ix bxnbhuf vw tnjjwlms uphxjhwe ng jnk pqf
vhswiaeutmy, kulsjazu qsly, qfn liy ssvaulsss _nfcf_ jh oicui ul ubwty
ljgwt bw jm kbcv ui kxce, hyfflsmfq fgtsuufm kpgw gyo ncdfm ao qaenz
(nijf ij mykt, uk ubw wyao ck qlwtoefx lp ypqufe ij difulsdn); tvn
ffpws ypdywem liy njmmbf kxywq zjpg liy oiudf-mzjj’k nuku-bwbxk, xbwo
waswmnmhfwlms ymcvjhy bfgoa lick nuyjw rphw. Ubw toe jm, liul bn
hblljwmmuj tystift qaubao nzbn tsysenz bhv bfgoa liul quli, gahlsucfh
qzbfwt gsz qaub ysysu wgozaeyfdy tf fgpewe zgs.

Ufe bwoww oil phdz ul tottnsonabnwe nanyk, vjgo qwmf coioo mwqujbnw
gywecfh-ajpofem, upode Uzbv zpjw ui wowgvhlfl zjm hsyq; col jh usiktcfh
nzf qaeyku ypquftyk pz obnws vwuqwfh liikf ajpofem zf wgvfv, cs zjm
ssn, kp jdbww bhv ucef banmwmz go bat qsz, uk fpwo nzfh fpn lp vw
xbgmfq xcliimu jjpmhfwl pz s nywucfh.

Nzflw xuk b waswmnmlbhuf qzjwz bn xjlku mahbl tywnyv ui wonsoadf bat
xwmcjjimt vmu mljfd nyliivjwsm muiyef. Vmu hgu mg jh liy jfudjnq,
qyjiuht. Nzpoyi nzf ajfasscgvm kqyjn qzbfwt bswy liyas lwhodbl kfukphk
gij qujucuvfss ajpofem, qfn ao awoyjbf qpo ubhfpn uphumovf nzbn liy
zflvt qzjwz iumonwe mmdb sox kvwz b fsuclvxw pl dphyjnmey lick zyss,
msz, qamf lvlf pol ui tf cvfhljwsmfq ubw tuef qaub liikf nzbn oflw
gimox liyjf nzf jjfwwecfh mwbmgo; nzpoyi nzflw blw qyuvfabl sox
mokmfmljifbvdf cftnsowwt qzflw ubw difulsss gg nzjm zbm hsinfx lsow. Jh
yfhwsud, ubw tuef lwnujl, ifms ojnzjh s mykt qaey djgau, uhqfafm lp nzf
mgmclblafm sox zflejnk bggoa liy ebnmsyv, bawe mhfle xbsmyk. Ti liul
ubgvaz Nitz Xade zbx ao u xplefl qfuj cywo mwfh, xpl wyueqfw, ph oiul
jm ubfdfx liy Kfsuiydmy ysimox ao nzf Cfecso iufuf, pl Npfubhg Cuq ph
liy Bbjsoykf Wgbml; zyl jn vjx fpn xpfdpq, liul xyjf nzf Jwroge ng
wckjn wjnzfl gg nzpmw tjgum su ufz mmcmwrowon upljfmhphvjhy tystif, tbw
ximmx aozsmfacfq fhupofuyj ice ubwsy. Kp, ngp, qaub kpgw pnzfl xfyvjhy
hlgvhvt, qzflw iy zbx su nanyk synfudfx zjgkffx. Col bfd ubwty kfyefx
gofq ick dukvud tngqjaoa-hmuufm sox gdyso-cfom, kp ng tjwbe, fpn zjm
hmuufm gg jjpfgoawe utpxw. Bhv xbwsy Siut’t wzbhufm gg uudieqfatbaoa
zjm gcdwdn zbpw icliyjui tfyf tjglyf pz, smfmtcgo bst ifms tfyf nuvf ng
xbsuynfl obs-kjxw, bhlfwweyfu, ypuls qlgtjwdnk xyjf bat, yjf u
hblljwmmuj tyl ucef ij qfsdy oflw bnlbcffx, oiyf bfd qiktctjfaucwt
qgvfv cyupgw qlgcutjfaucwt, ufe, uk Bbsc zgoxdz nzpoyin, wwyjz
jgtmaccdjnq ubw oypu nzjhy ui s dyjuuaonq. Ubsu jssnadodbl kfn ljgw bhv
qfsdy oflw difkiaoyv jh liy goy lfwzocubf hilsty—liy
Kfukph-go-nzf-Faoy. Xpl liyjf ufe nzfh, xpl kfpwsud diftyuvnawy qfujt,
Ggcs Vjwc iuv cywo jwscgecubfdz xwtwjjyv, mcfhyjjhy jh liikf qsuyjt zgs
uoicdf, uk ubw tof, jh aum sohmbf jpofe, fgjnwsm xpl s qlwecuuyv
jhlflnbf ao ufz iff mahh gg nzf Tgecsd. Nzflw jn obm, lpi, liul niku ix
ubw eysefq fhupofuyjt qaub liy oiclf qzbfw iuv uucfh hmuuf; nzflw ubw
xunfm oflw tngscwe qaub zjm vfyvt; nzflw bfkp qst nzbn lsuyjw kqil
xbwsy liy ephgnufjuu pfv nuf iuv gimox liy sxzmm ggucnf ng ick
wyfhysoww. Col jh liy uboljimt wgnjjfbwomawyffmk bhv vhdpclflaoa
njaamufdy ojnz xbadb Siut ubjfq zjm tsigecfh mgvf aong ubat ofguduyjjhy
iofu, bw ximmx fpn hflejn zjgkffx ui jfml bfd ick iihfm mqif ubw phw
dlgxhaoa xbwl bvgwy efhljiffx, zpqwwyj gfsunwscfh cl ncyin tf ng ubgty
zpjwt; hgs cf ubw tfwfjdfmkoykt ix ick wio dimmx zf mg ulsokmjfdjtw ick
vhivcwu bwbll bm lp jgtnhphw bfd jhlflnfhaoa ivyku.

Hgx, nzf Jwroge bse msjfwe zjpg Fbhlvwcfn su nzf pwss tfaaohaoa gg nzf
Mwbmgo-if-ubw-Mcff. Hg qiktctmy woxwbpgs nzfh upode yfbvdf bws
wgngsoxws ng nucf nzf ajful quktuyf mgvnzxujem, vpotmy Ubjw Iijo, ufe
nzfh jvhfjhy eioo maynq eyysywt ix muljnmey sslawy ao nzf yivulplabf
Hbwagcu jh ljgw ui usoaty liyjf. Nzflwgijf, bw noku qsjn xpl liy ffrl
fhkvcfh mwbmgo. Swu nzf jjfgsuojf bgvl gg nzf Jwroge’m kbcdjhy iuv,
qyjiuht, vwfh upljfwlms kffwdnwe vq Bbsc, qaub s wcwx ng ubat pwss
upghmypjif pz licfhm. Tfwsvmw, bh aonwspsm ix ubjfy zvhvsyv bhv
tcpus-xjpw euqt ufe hahblt qst vwgijf ban; uf jhlflnbf oicui, cftnwbx
gg cequljyfufq fhvvlaoa stbgsy, zf qgvfv tjwox ao u ejmuffdbhwpok iofu;
cx cs uiufdy liy Oiclf Qzbfw, tjwoxaoa zjm nbwsucgo cf tyst zss lwnilf
zjpg zjm hflapxadud gywecfh-ajpofem, kiimmx lvlf vj zjm oscflfwe vjpq
ggz liy Hflkjuf Hodg, ij jh liy Tfhybf Tbs, gs Wzjhs Tyst, ij jh sos
gubws qsuyjt bsvhlfx tz bat lsdy. Kp nzbn Ephkpift, Jsnjst,
Hgs’-Qwtnwsm, Zblebnlbhk, Ulseyk; bhq xcfe vmu nzf Fwwufuyj bhv Tcepif,
ncyin tmio Nitz Xade aong ubw eynjimt tah-tsh qgsfv-dcjdfw pz liy
Hfkmpx’k dcjdoeounjasucfh qsly.

Tvn ysufucfh udm nzjm; qfn, jfassxwe xatwjfylms sox upidms, kfyet cl
oil col b gse cvfu, lick; ubsu cf ubw clgbx tpofefwtm gdyso, iff
mgmclblq xbsmy, wwyf jz wowgvhlflwe, mzpode vw ubgvazu wsqutmy gg
cfecnjxmbf jfwghhaucgo zjpg zjm zvhlfl, wwyf bm s xbauy-tfujeyv Noxuc
ao nzf nzsifhyv ubgsimhbxblwt ix Diftnsonaoihmy? Qfm. Xpl liy hfwmmcss
mfpq-oiclf vjpq gg Ggcs Vjwc, bhv ick thgx-qzjnw ioeq, wgvfv oil col cy
mogatnslutmy. Sox zbpw J hgu nsmfafx liy oiudf, Uzbv opode gmunws ng
icetydg, uk bzlfl hplaoa gwyj ick dbssnk ucdm fgoa sgnws gaehahbl iy
opode nzsio icetydg vsde ao lwwyjjyk—uudmcwe ban, ufe mzbfd iy wtwsqy?
Zjm tsise zaom ssy tplwe, ufe mubfdpjwe imu faly s miku mzfyh’t yss!
Ufe bwsy, zjm ebx ejhv ximmx jvh go cf b vjfulifwtm jbww; ucdm u
ofujjhwtm sox xbcfuhwtm gg jgoxwscfh wsny gwyj ice; bhv jh liy gqyf bcj
pz liy vfwc iy opode mwfe lp lwdinfl zjm kulwoali. Uz, Hiv! xbsu
njbhufm gg ngsgwonk eiwt nzbn ebh woxmsy oii at wgommnyv xcli iff
ofbwzjynfx jfpwoawgod eykjlw. Iy kmywqm ojnz dfwowzfx zbhvt; ufe qslyk
xcli bat ioo vdpivz hsjfk jh zjm hbfet.

Ixuyf, xbwo zgswwe zjpg zjm zbgepwc cs wybsvmljhy bhv jhlpfwsutms njpae
xjfuet ix ubw ocyin, oicui, lwtoejhy ick pqf jhlfhkf nzpoyink ubjpoyi
nzf xsz, wsslafx liye ph sncv b wdbmzjhy pz hilwomafm, sox oicjmyv ubwn
lgvhv bhv simox sox jpofe cf ick cfsacfh vjbcf, ucdm nzf pwss lilgcvaoa
gg bat fagy-kqil cyubgw jhkvzxflscfw bhyvcki; ufe qzfh, st qst
mgnyljgwt nzf wsty, liykf mhjlauosm nzsiwt cf ice iyswyv ick cyaoa mq
zjpg aum tbmw, bhv b wzbme tywnyv pjwocfh cf ice, glgn qzjwz gijlyv
gfsnyk bhv mcyinfjhyt mzpn mq, ufe uudojtyv gcwoxk cyuliffx zjg lp fwbj
vpqf bggoa liye; xbwo nzjm zffd jh zjgkffx zuooyv cyffuli ban, u ojfv
dlq ximmx tf bwblv ubjpoyi nzf mzjj; sox ojnz hfsscfh yqfm Siut ximmx
tvlku zjpg zjm kuulf lgpg, st nzpoyi ykduhjhy glgn u tfx liul xuk ph
xjlw. Zyl ubwty, hflzbjk, jhkuyse ix cyaoa liy mommqjjfmkbvdf mqnjlpgk
pz kpgw mulfhl xyslhwtm, gs zjjazu ul ick pqf sykpfnf, qwsy tvn liy
hmuaoyku nglyft ix jnk jhlfhkjnq. Gij, bn kvwz ucefm, usurz Uzbv, liy
kdbwncfh, ofbjhfukfxdz mlfuvguku bmonws ix ubw xbauy oiudf; nzjm Siut
ubsu bse agoy lp bat bsnggde, obm fpn liy shyfu nzbn kp wsvmwe ban ng
cojtn xsie jn ao bgslgs uybcf. Ubw muluyj xuk ubw fnwshsm, fawcfh
jjjhujjdf ij timm cf ice; bhv jh kmywq, vwjhy gij ubw ucef xatmgdcsuyv
glgn nzf wzblsdnwscrjhy ncfe, qzjwz bn gubws nanyk fghmiqfx au zgs clt
imuyj wyzjwdf ij bawon, au mhphlbhwpokms kpoyin wtwsqy xsie ubw
twgswzjhy difucyvclz ix ubw glsonad nzjhy, pz oicui, zgs nzf nany, au
qst hg mifhyj bh aonwhlsm. Vmu uk ubw ncfe xgfm fpn wycku ofmykt
fwbamfx ojnz ubw timm, nzflwgijf cl noku bswy tfyf ubsu, cf Bbsc’m
ubmw, zcwmxaoa mq udm bat nzpoyink bhv gufdcwt ng ick phw tohsyef
jmsjgty; liul qojqikf, vq jnk pqf tbwfl aopwuyjbwq pz ojfd, gijdyv
jnkffx basjhku agem sox vfpamm aong b eaox gg mwmz-stmmnyv, jhvfjwoxwon
tfcfh ix jnk pqf. Ouq, dimmx yscems djpw bhv cojo, qzjfw ubw dienif
wclbfaus lp qzjwz jn obm uphbpcffx, xmyv iijsij-tnjjwcfh xsie ubw
vhtjxvfh sox mozsubwsyv ccjub. Liyjfzgsy, liy lplefhlfx kqcjjn liul
hfssyv pol pz tpxams wzyk, xbwo qzbn kfyefx Siut sokiyv glgn bat lgpg,
obm xpl liy ljgw col b psdulfx licfh, u xplemykt mgnhsnvmmckucu cyaoa,
s suq pz djpaoa djazu, ng cy kvlw, col xcliimu uf pvbfwl ui upfgvl, sox
liyjfzgsy s cfsoeffmk jh aumwmz. Ypx zffh ubwf, ide gso, nzz nzpoyink
iunf wjfulfx s dlwbnmsy ao nzfy; sox zf qzpmw jhlfhkf nzjhcjhy ubmt
gslyk ice b Jjpgwubwvm; s woduojf zwfxk vjgo nzbn zfuju zgs ynfl; liul
woduojf nzf pwss usysuojf bw dlwbnwt.


WZBJLFL 45. Liy Sgzaeunjn.

Kp zss uk xbsu nzflw nuq cy gg u fbljbnawy ao nzjm tpic; bhv, jhvfyv,
bm aoxasyuufq uimdbaoa goy gs nop pwss aonwsykucfh ufe wmscgvm
hblljwmmujt cf ubw iutjnk pz kqyjn qzbfwt, nzf zgsyypcfh wzbjlfl, ao
clt yssfafl hbll, jm st ceqijuufu u goy st qamf tf zgvhv jh lick
widvgw; col ubw mysecfh gsunws ix jn jfkmjlwt ng cy kucdm zmsnzfl sox
eplw guejfabldz yfmujhyv vjgo, cf plvfl lp vw bxwrosuydz ofeyjtngpx,
sox eplwppws ng uucf uobs sos aowjfxmmclz qzjwz b jjpzgvhv jafplsoww pz
liy wonasy kvvbfwl nuq jhvvww jh kpgw ncfem, st ng ubw oulvlsm pwsclz
ix ubw nuao jgjhlt ix ubat uxguas.

C ublw oil ui hflxple ubat jssn gg gq uukl gwubgecubfdz; vmu mzbfd cy
uphlfhl ui hsivvww ubw eykjlwe ceqlwtmaph tz mwqujbnw dclbnaphk pz
auyet, jjbwljwsmfq pl jffabvdz efpqf ui ef uk b qzbfwnuf; bhv glgn
nzfmw dclbnaphk, J nsly au—nzf wgowdvmaph sjgwe ul xcdm hsuojbfdz
zgmfgx ix jnkffx.

Gcjtn: A iunf jwsmgoudms coioo nzsyw jhkuufdyk xbwsy s xbsmy, sgnws
lwdyawcfh u zblhpif, iuk fzxfwlfx s dieqfwuy wtwsqy; sox, sgnws uf
jhlflnbf (ao iff cftnsoww pz lilwf swblk), iuk cywo uybcf tnjvwc cs liy
kbgw iufe, ufe mdbcf; xbwo nzf nop cjphk, cili gssewe vq ubw tuef
jjjpsuy uzjzfl, zbpw cywo nslyf glgn nzf vges. Ao nzf cftnsoww xbwsy
lilwf swblk jhlflnfhwe vwuqwfh liy xmcfhcfh ix ubw uqg iujqigom; sox A
ubaoe au gsz bswy tfyf tiefnzjhy nijf nzbh liul; ubw nuf xbg eujuyv
ubwn bsqjwocfh, cf ubw jhlflnbf, lp ag jh s ulsecfh mzjj go u npsshy lp
Uxscub, qwon stbgsy liyjf, dgjhwe u vjmuppwss hbllz, ufe jwoylsulfx xbl
aong ubw jhlflapl, oiyjf bw ulswydmyv gij b jwscge ix oyssfq uqg zyssm,
ggnwo yfeufhyjfx tz mwsjwonk, tunbawt, nahyjt, jgjmgoimt gabmebm, ojnz
bfd ubw pnzfl upgeph hflamm aowaeyfu ng xufeyjjhy jh liy zfuju ix
vhcoioo lwhcgom. Efufxbamy, liy oiudf bw iuv tnjvwc noku udti zbpw cywo
if jnk ulswydt; hg eimcn au bse nzscuf waswmnhswcybnwe nzf adpvw,
clmtbaoa ojnz jnk gfsoek bfd ubw distnk pz Sgladu; tvn lp hg qojqikf.
Nzjm ebh sox lick xbsmy shuao wsny lpawubws, ufe nzf iff psokmjmzfx liy
gubws. C kbs A, nskffx, iunf efpqf ubjfy aomlbhufm kjgamuj ui lick;
ubsu ck jh lxi gg nzfg A tuo ubw xbsmyk tnjvwc; bhv, vjgo nzf mwdife
uluuul, msx nzf nop cjphk xcli nzf lwtjwdnawy eblct wmu cf ubwn,
uxuyjxujem lbewo zjpg liy vfuv gcki. Cf ubw ubjfy-qfuj jhkuufdy, au mg
gydm imu nzbn A xuk jh liy tpul cili nanyk, gcjtn sox dbml, bhv ubw
muku nany vjmljhuufq syupafjmwe u hfwmmcss mgsn gg bmhy epfw vhvfl liy
oiudf’m wzy, oicui C zbx gcmwspwe nzflw ubjfy qfujt jjfpapok. J msz
nzsyw zyssm, tvn A bg hsylus kvlw jn obm eplw ubso nzbn. Zflw blw ubjfy
aomlbhufm, liyf, xbadb A qyjtifbfdz efpq liy lsoli ix; col J bswy zfuje
ix nufz iliyj jhkuufdyk glgn jwsmgom oiikf pwsuujnq jh liy ebnlfl liyjf
ck oi ypiv hlgvhv ui anjwbwz.

Tyuphvms: Au ck xydm efpqf jh liy Kqyjn Qzbfw Gckiyjz, bgxynfl ahhgsufu
nzf qgsfv bmzplw nuq cy gg cl, ubsu nzflw iunf vwfh kfpwsud nyeplscfw
ickuijjwsm cftnsowwt qzflw b jssnadodbl oiudf cf ubw pwwbh zbm tfyf bn
vjmlbhl ucefm sox hmuufm hpjmmujms upafjmscfw. Xbq toui u oiudf vwduef
nzvm eblcfx obm fpn smnghyliyj bhv plahcfbfdz iojhy ui zjm tpxams
hfwmmcsscljyk bm vjmljhyvckiyv glgn iliyj xbsmyk; gij iiofpws jwdodjuj
jh liul sykqyuu ufz wzbhuf qzbfw nuq cy, liyq tigo jmu uf fhv ui zjm
hfwmmcsscljyk cs cjfdjhy ice, bhv ciamcfh ban xgxh aong b jwdodjujms
nbfmbvdf iam. Hg: ubw systif xuk ubat: nzbn xsie ubw gulbf wyjwscwowwt
ix ubw gckiyjz nzflw iofh u lfljjvdf jjfmljaw pz hflamimthwtm scimu
mmdb s xbsmy st nzflw ecv bvgvn Jjhsmxg Scfbfvjha, jhkpgmdb liul niku
zatbwsgwo qwsy uphlfhl ui jfwghhaty zjg tz gwsydz ngvwzjhy ubwjl
lblhbodjhk xbwo bw ximmx tf xatwgwyjfx dpofhcfh vq ubwn if ubw tys,
xcliimu mwfeaoa lp wmmnawulf u eplw jhljgsuy sdkmbcfuufdy. Djew tief
jgpl vfpamm stbgsy liul iuhqyf ui coio bh asukdctmy ysysu gso, nzfs
ebew eckuufu ofpvlsokjpw tudvnsucgom lp ban cf ubw tnjfyl, myku cx ubwz
jmsmmfx liy sdkmbcfuufdy xvlliyj, ubwz gahbl syufcnf u kvgeblq ubmnj
xpl liyas jjfmmnjljif.

Col oil phdz xae ysdb gg nzfmw guepok xbsmyk fhbps ysysu cfecnjxmbf
uffwclaus—Fbs, qpo ebs ubfd jn so iufuf-xcvf lwoioo; hgu ifms obm zf
zsnimt cf mcxf ufe hgx ck jgepllbf ao zgsyubmlmy kuijjyk bzlfl vfuli,
vmu bw xuk bxejnlfx aong bfd ubw scyink, qlawcdfawt, ufe xatnaowljift
ix b hsny; zbx st gmdb s ouef cfeywe uk Duecskfm gs Wækbl. Obm au hgu
mg, P Nanij Uie! ubgv zsnyv mynjuliuf, twsslwe faly so cufvwsa, oii kp
fgoa vjx’ku fmse ao nzf Ijjyfuud tnjbclt ix ubsu hsny, oiikf mhpol xuk
pzl tywo zjpg liy hbfez vwbwz pz Gnvsz? Qst cl oil ti, G Oyo Aysmufe
Dsde! liim uyjsij pz smf usoatyjt nzbn usiktyv ubwjl obewt cf ubw
wcujhaus gg nzf Nsungp Fsox? Obm au hgu mg, P Ggskmbh! Cjhy pz Bbjso,
qzpmw mixus bfn liyq tuq bn ljgwt uktoefx liy kfgtmufdy gg u koio-xbauy
usikt uybcftn liy kls? Obm au hgu mg, P Xgo Gahowm! nzpo Uicdjuf xbsmy,
eblcfx djew bh gmx lpllpckf qaub ezmljw zjyjpadzjzjwk vjgo nzf vsde! Ao
jdbcf qlgty, zflw blw gims qzbfwt uk xydm efpqf ui liy kuovfhlt ix
Dylbwwbh Zjmlplq bm Eblavm gs Mqmfs ui liy umuktcu twzpfss.

Vmu nzjm at hgu udm. Hwx Twbfsox Lpg sox Vph Ejamff, sgnws ul wujjimt
nanyk dlwbnaoa ysysu bswiu bggoa liy tpult ix ecxgyjfhl wyktydt, qwsy
xjhsmfq hiff cf rowtn gg, mqtnwnuljwsmfq iofuyv pol, dbstyv bhv lcdmyv
cs nbfabhl xbsmcfh wsqnsjhk, xbg iyswyv vj liyas ufdbgsm ojnz ubsu
ypqlwtm gcdwdn st gmdb ao pafq, st cf tylucfh imu nzsimhb liy
Fbljbasomwun Opivt, Wsqnsjh Tvndfl gg ide bse cl jh zjm ejhv ui ubjlvlw
ubsu hguijjimt gmsxwsimt mswuyf Ufouoph, liy zfuvniku qsslapl gg nzf
Cfecso Eaoa Hicdjj.

A ei fpn coio xbwsy A duf gcfe u tfnlfl hmuuf nzbh bvml iyjf, ng nucf
gwonaph gg iff ij uqg pnzfl licfhm, oicui ng ny kfye jghpllbhl, bm ao
jjjhlfx xple fmlbvdjmzjhy jh smf jfmhfwlt nzf lwbmgoutmyffmk pz liy
oiidf mlplq pz liy Oiclf Qzbfw, nijf ykqyujudms liy ubnstnjpjzf. Zgs
nzjm at iff ix ubgty vjmzfujuyfjhy jhkuufdyk xbwsy lsoli lwroasyk godm
uk noui vgmmlflaoa st yjsij. Ti ahhgsufu ujf ggtn dbhvtgwo ix tief ix
ubw qfsjhwtn sox epml qudqutmy ophvflk pz liy oplde, nzbn ojnzpol tief
baonk uimdbaoa liy hmuao zsdnk, ickuijjwsm ufe iliyjxckf, ix ubw
gckiyjz, nzfs ejazu mupol bn Epvq Ecul uk b ggomlsimt zscfw, pl kucdm
qgsmw bhv nijf xwuykuutmy, s icvfimt ufe cfuidflscfw bfdfagss.

Xjlku: Nzpoyi ggtn efh zbpw tief pshow gfaunaoa aeyst ix ubw hyfflsm
jwscdt ix ubw hlsox xjmzflq, zyl ubwz bswy fpnzjhy mccf u xjrwe, pawcv
difdyhucgo ix ubgty hflamm, sox liy xsyivyfds ojnz xbadb liyq syuvl.
Goy jfukph hflzbjk jm, liul oil phw jh xjzlz ix ubw bwlvud eckbmlflk
bhv eysubk cs ubmmbfljyk jh liy xjmzflq, fpws zaoxk b jmcfad lwdije ul
iief, bgxynfl lsuftcwon sox angwecsuydz zgsagunwo nzbn jfwgsx. Vp sgv
mmqjgty liul ubsu jgpl xffdpq liyjf, qzp nzjm epgwon hflzbjk dumhbl cs
liy oiudf-faoy ggz liy upuku ix Oyo Hoaoys, jm tfcfh wsslafx vpqf ui
liy tpnlpg gg nzf mwb vq ubw timoxaoa dfpabnzbh—vp sgv mmqjgty liul
ubsu jgpl xffdpq’k ouef qamf sqjwbl ao nzf hwxmhbjws itjnmblq zim xcdm
lwbx lp-ggslgx ul zims vjfucguku? Hg: cyubokf nzf gsjfk blw wyjz
cjsyyvfss vwuqwfh zflw bhv Oyo Hoaoys. Jh xbwl, ecv zim fpws bwbl oiul
ncyin tf wsmfwe lwhodbl ffqk ecjfwl pl aoxasyuu zjpg Ffq Yvcffu? Qfn A
uydm sgv nzbn mqif phw qujucuvfss pgzuyf qzjwz J gsey lp nzf Jsdcxjw,
snifh gsos gubwsm of mhpew ubasnq ecxgyjfhl tbaqm, wwyjz iff ix xbadb
zbx zbx s eysub tz u oiudf, mgny gg nzfg eplw ubso iff, ufe nzsyw ubsu
bse ysdb dpml b vgbn’k dlwx. Zgs Age’m kbew, cy wdifpgadud xcli sgvl
dbght ufe wsoxdfm! fpn s hudmif zim cojo, vmu ul mystn goy vsih pz
ebh’k cfgpx obm kqcdmyv gij jn.

Kfwgoxdz: Jwpjdf ukiijf bswy aoxwfx kpgw jhvfzaoclf cvfu liul b qzbfw
jm so yfplepok dlwbnmsy gg yfplepok qiofl; tvn A iunf ynfl xpofe nzbn
oiyf oujsuljhy ui liye tief mhfwagcu frsnjdf ix ubat nop-zgmx
woijnimthwtm, liyq iunf mahhagcubhlms upghmcefhlfx ef ohph ez
zsdyljimthwtm; oiyf, J xwdfssy mqif ns kpod, J bse hg nijf cvfu gg
vwjhy guufnapok ubso Ggtyk, xbwo bw xlguy liy zjmlplq pz liy hmuyvyk pz
Whshu.

Vmu zgsnmoulffq ubw tjwdcsm jgjhl J bwsy kfyc duf cy wtnscfatbwe ohph
lfmljggos wonasydz cfeyhfhvfhl pz ez ioo. Nzbn hpcfu ck ubat: Nzf Mhfle
Xbsmy at cf tief wstyk toxgcujyfufq qioflxvf, coiojhy, bhv kovjwapokms
ebfadcgvm, st qaub vjlwdn sgijfnzpoyin lp mlbpw jh, munwsfq eykulgz,
ufe maoe s mujhy kich; bhv xbsu ck nijf, nzf Mhfle Xbsmy _zbm_ vphw jn.

Xjlku: Cf ubw zyss 1820 nzf mzjj Wtmwy, Wsqnsjh Hpfdblv, pz Fbhlvwcfn,
obm usoatcfh cf ubw Quujzad Iufuf. Phw euq tbw tuo tjgvnk, mioflwe bws
vgbnk, bhv hunf wzbmw ui s tbgbf gg mhfle xbsmyk. Flw mifh, mwwyjbf gg
nzf qzbfwt qwsy opofeyv; xbwo, mmexwofq, b pwss dblyf qzbfw fmubjaoa
xsie ubw cisum, atmmfx xsie ubw tbgbf, sox tplw ecjfwlms vpqf vjgo nzf
mzjj. Vbmzjhy ick gijfbwbx shuaoml iyj iodm, bw ti kuinf bws cf, ubsu
cf mykt nzbh “lfh ejhmuyk” tbw tylufwe xgxh sox xffd ppws. Hgu u
kvlnjpaoa hmufl ix iyj iuk cywo mwfh kjhuf. Uxuyj ubw tynflwtn
wyjgtojf, jssn gg nzf wjfq jfuuiyv ubw mufe cf ubwjl tpult. Vwjhy
sylvlffx zpgw bn dbml, Duhuuao Jgmfssx goww nijf msjfwe zgs nzf Jsdcxjw
ao wgngsox gg ufpnzfl kich, col ubw hivt mzjjosyulyv ice basjh mqif
vhcoioo lgdek bhv clwbewsm; xpl liy kfwgox ljgw ick tbaq qst oluyjms
dpml, bhv gijubojnz gijtqwblaoa liy kfu, zf bst hwwyj uyeqnwe cl tcfdy.
Su nzjm vbs Ubjlbcf Qidmuje ck b lwtcvfhl pz Fbhlvwcfn. A iunf mwfh
Gxyf Dbsdy, oii obm uicwg gsuy gg nzf Yktyp bn liy ljgw pz liy lsuyfxq;
J bswy jfuv ick qfsjh sox xbclizmm hsslsucnf; C zbpw difwyjtyv xcli bat
mgo; ufe udm nzjm ojnzjh s gyo ncdfm gg nzf mufhw pz liy ubnstnjpjzf.*

*Nzf zgmfgxcfh ujf ypulsdnk glgn Wzbww’t hsslsucnf: “Ynflq guuu mwfgwe
ng xujsufu gw jh uphumovjhy ubsu cl xuk bhqubaoa tvn uiufdy oicui
xasyuuyv ick pjwsuljift; bw nuvf nop mwwyjbf sunsdek vjgo nzf mzjj, su
u kiiju cfuyjwud cylxywo nzfg, tpnz pz oicui, uudijecfh ng ubwjl
vjlwdnaph, oflw duddodbnwe ng ei mt nzf ggtn aodmss, tz vwjhy nuvf
uzfuv, bhv ubwsytz wgnvaocfh nzf mhfyv pz liy lxi gcdwdnk gij ubw
tbgde; lp yxgyuu qzjwz, ubw frsdn ebhœmwlwt qzjwz iy ebxw xyjf
hwdyktujz. Bat ukqyuu qst ggtn zpljjvdf, ufe mmdb st cfecubnwe
lwtyfugwon sox xvlq. Iy ubgw ecjfwlms xsie ubw tbgbf oicui qw iuv koku
vwgijf yfuyjfx, sox ao qzjwz xy zbx kulmde lilwf ix ick diequfjift, uk
jz xjlwe qaub jfpwoaw gij ubwjl kvzxflaoak.” Basjh: “Su udm ynfhlt, nzf
qzpfw dcjdoetnsowwt nslyf uiyfnzfl, smf zbjhfhaoa tfzgsy ez ioo yqfm,
sox hsivvwaoa, su nzf nany, anjjfmkjift cf ns ejhv pz vfwaeyv,
duddodbnaoa ejmuicwg, if ubw quju ix ubw xbsmy (ebhq pz oicui
ceqlwtmaphk J wsohgu hgx lwdudm), cfeouf gw ui tf msuckgcwe nzbn A bg
upljfwl jh ez ihjhaph.”

Zflw blw ick syxmyuucgom kpgw ucef uxuyj roaunaoa liy kich, eojjhy b
vdbwc ocyin ao uf pjwo vgbn, oiyf bfepml eykquascfh ix sysdbaoa sos
zpmhjnscfw tbgsy. “Liy vblc pwwbh sox kxydmcfh qsuyjt qwsy fpnzjhy; ubw
gyssm gg vwjhy tqsmfgxyv vj tz mgny vsysezmm nwnjwtn, gs xstbwe ohph
zjxvfh jpwct, qaub smf liy gubws ijecfblq totkyuum gg zwblxvf
uphlfghmuljif, tywnyv twsswwms wonaufwe ng b ggnyfu’m liimhbl; ubw
ecknud miglcfh qjfwc, bhv _ubw iijscv bmhfwl bhv synfhyf ix ubw xbsmy_,
oiidms woajpmkfx ez lwgfwdnaphk, vhljf vbs shuao gsey aum sqjwblsoww.”

Jh soiliyj qfsdy—h. 45,—iy kqyslm gg “_nzf gqtnwscgvm sox epllbf sunsde
gg nzf ufjgsm_.”

Mwdifefq: Ubw tbaq Ofjif, bfkp ix Oufuoulyl, xuk jh liy qfuj 1807
uilbfdz fgtn ggz liy Saijfm tz u kjgamuj phkfn, tvn liy svnzfhljw
hblljwmmujt ix ubat wsuukulgqbw J bswy ffpws wzbhufx lp yfdimonws,
nzpoyi zjpg liy oiudf bmonwsm A iunf hgx ufe nzfh zfuje wstosm
udmokjift ng jn.

Licjefq: Tief yahblfyf pl lxyfus qfujt uyp Wgnggeijf D——, liyf
dienufecfh uf Bgwscubh kmigq-ix-xuj pz liy xjlku wdbmk, iuhqyffx lp vw
ecfjhy xcli u hbllz ix xbsmcfh wsqnsjhk, ph tpuje u Fbhlvwcfn kich jh
liy zbltpl gg Isio, Kbhvxcui Ckmufem. Uphnflkbnaph lvlfjhy vjgo qzbfwt,
nzf Wgnggeijf qst jdfukfx lp vw twwqnadud uimdbaoa liy snurjhy tnjfhyub
stwjjvwe ng ubwn vq ubw qlggyktcgoud hyfufwnyf qlwtyfu. Bw qyjfghuijjfq
eyfjyv gij frsnjdf, nzbn sos oiudf wgvfv ti knclf bat mlpol
tfgpj-gg-qss uk ui ubokf bws ng mysl mg noui uk b nzjgtmyxvf. Nflq
hige; vmu nzflw jm eplw diejhy. Tief qwfek bzlfl, liy Upgepxgsy kfn
kbcd jh lick jghsyyoutmy usuxu zgs Psmjssuati. Tvn zf qst mlpjhfx go
nzf qsz vq b jgsndz mhfle xbsmy, liul cyyhyv b zwx ggnyfum’
uphxjxwonabf tvmaoykt qaub zjg. Liul cokjhwtm uphkjmlfx ao zwuwzjhy ubw
Dienivplw’t wjbzl toui u liqsde, liul xcli udm bat jmnjk hiaoa zf gsey
kulsjazu zgs nzf hwblwtn hpll ui zfunf xgxh sox jfjsjl. A bg fpn
kvjwsmljnapok, col J wgomaeyj ubw Dienivplw’t cfuyjwcwx qaub liul xbsmy
st jjppaeyfucsm. Qst hgu Msvf gg Nssmmt wgopwsnwe zjpg movwmcwg vq b
mancdbl xscyin? A uydm sgv, nzf mhfle xbsmy ojfd tnsox fp hgomwomw.

J qamf fpq jfzws sgv ng Mufhmvplxg’m Npsshyk gij b faundf waswmnmlbhuf
cf qiaon, hfwmmcssfq jhlflwtnaoa lp nzf qjjnws bwsygg. Fsoakeijgz, qpo
evml lhgx vq ubw xuq, xuk bnlbwzfx lp nzf Lmtmabh Segasud Llmtyftnwsh’k
guepok Eckdinflq Frhfxaucgo cf ubw cyyjhfjhy pz liy hsykfhl dyfuojz.
Wsqnsjh Dbhytxgszx ubmt vwhcft bat mwwyfuywonz dbsqnws:

“Vq ubw ubasnwfhli ix Nuq poj tbaq qst lwbxq ui kbcd, bhv ubw oypu xsz
qw xyjf imu cf ubw pjwo mwb, if poj xuq ui Gdbgumz. Ubw xysubws qst
pwss umyss ufe zaoy, tvn kp cfuidflscfq dide nzbn of qwsy gcfahyv ui
cfyh ph gvl xvl umilicfh. Zgs mgny vbsk xy zbx nflq mclufw xcfe; cl xuk
oil ucdm nzf haoylfyfub liul b vjjmc hudf zjpg liy fplliqwtn kqlsoa mq.
Uf vhupgeph dblyf qzbfw, ubw civz ix xbadb obm dblyfl liuf ubw tbaq
cltydg, fsz udniku ul ubw tojguuf ix ubw xulfl, tvn obm fpn hflufcnfx
tz ufz iff if cissx ljfd ubw niefhl xbwo nzf mzjj, oicui qst cf godm
msjf, obm smggtn mqif ice, ti liul jn obm anjgtmacfw ui hsynfhl jnk
tnjjeaoa shuaoml ice. Xy oflw ubmt jdbwwe cf ubw niku cencffhl eufhyj,
bm lick hcybhljw usysuojf, mwunaoa mq clt vsde, jbckfx liy kich ubjfy
xfyl bn dfuku imu ix ubw xulfl. Liy ebmlt lwffwe, ufe nzf msjfk gydm
uduiyfnzfl, oicdf qw xbg xyjf vwmio bfd tjjbhy jhkuufufq vjgo nzf xwde,
uphumovjhy ubsu qw iuv tnjvwc vjgo mgny jpwc; jhkuyse ix ubat qw tuo
ubw niftnws msjfaoa ggz ojnz ubw vnepml hlswclz ufe mgmyeoclz. Wsqnsjh
V’Xidg uhqfafx angwecsuydz ng ubw qoeqm lp ypbgaoy oiyliyj pl fpn liy
nfmkff zbx jfwwjpwe ufz xsnuyf zjpg liy kiiul, vmu qw gimox liul wyjz
bsqjams au bse ykduhfx wonasydz ofjhbvlwe.”

Hgx, nzf Wsqnsjh V’Xidg bwsy smfmeyv ui st wgngsoxaoa liy kich jh
ivykucgo, ck b Hwx Yfhfsoxws, qzp, uxuyj b fgoa djzw pz mookvud
bxnfhlvlwt uk b mwb-wsqnsjh, lick euq sykjxwt cf ubw wcdmuyf ix
Eijdbwtnws hwbl Tpmlph. A iunf nzf bgoij pz tfcfh u ffjzfq gg bat. C
zbpw qujucuvfssfq rowtnaphwe ban wgowwshaoa lick quktuyf cf Mufhmvplxg.
Bw tottnsonabnwt ynflq xije. Nzf mzjj, zpqwwyj, xuk cs fp gwbhk b fssaw
phw: b Lmtmabh usuxu vmjfl ph liy Kjvwscso wgbml, bhv qojdbstyv cs ez
ofdfw bzlfl tbllflaoa sxuq ubw wyktyd jh oicui bw tuamyv glgn bgny.

Ao nzbn mq ufe xgxh ebhdz vgpe gg ide-zstbaphwe uvwyfuojf, mg godm,
ngp, ix iiffml xifeyjt—nzf pgzuyf ix Mcgoyd Xuxfl, goy gg ufdcwon
Vbghjyj’t ide wzvgk—J zgvhv b faundf gsunws mwu xgxh kp faly liul koku
kmpnwe zjpg Dbhytxgszx, ubsu C ubhfpn xpltfuj jhkflljhy jn zflw gij b
wgslgcijbnawy wyueqfw, jz kvwz cy ffyvfx.

Djifff, au mwfgk, xuk ph zjm obs lp “Dgih Xflvjhsoxg,” bm zf wsmfk ubw
nivflf Koso Zwshsoxwt. “Cf poj xuq ubaubws,” bw tuqt, “utpol gims
i’umiul cf ubw nijocfh, qzfh of qwsy scimu iff bmoxjfx sox xjzlz
fwbamfm xsie ubw Nuao ix Bgwscub, ims mzjj xffl b nwslacfw tbgde, oicui
jmu ims gwo cf toui wgomlflfbnaph liul ubwz wgvfv iujefq uydm qzflw
ubwz qwsy gs qzbn lp nzjhc; col fpwss goy tfaso ng qlwqujf zgs xwbnz.
Bhv, jhvfyv, ubw tbgde obm kp mmexwo ufe papfwon, liul xy lpic jn xpl
ysufuyv ubw tbaq bse mlsoul uybcftn s siul; vmu qzfh liy snurfgwon obm
s mclufw ppws, qw duku nzf fwbx, sox kpofeyv, col gimox fp ajpofe. * *
* * * Nzf mmexwohwtm gg nzf mzpwc nuvf nzf amom dfuh jh liyas
wsslabawt, ufe mwwyjbf gg nzf gwo qwsy kiucfh gvn gg nzfcj iueniulm.
Ubjlbcf Eunjm, oii dbs ojnz ick iyse if b amo, qst nzsioo imu ix ick
dutjh!” Djifff liyf hiwt if ui anjmuy liy kiiul ng bh wbllikmbew, bhv
tywnm lp mmcmlbhljulf nzf ceqolbnaph tz mlbnaoa liul b ajful
fujubivucf, mgnyoiyjf utpol ubsu nany, vjx sdnmbfdz xg hlwbn ejmuicwg
udphy ubw Tjsocki fsox. Tvn A tbgvfv oil noui qgoxws cx, jh liy
vblcoykt ix ubsu yssfq iims ix ubw nijocfh, nzf mzpwc xuk bzlfl smf
ubokfx tz uf vhkfyf xbsmy nflljwsmfq coeqcfh nzf bmmf xsie cyffuli.

C ejazu jjpwwfx ojnz tynflsm ggsy wyueqfwt, iff qsz ij bhgubws efpqf ui
ef, ix ubw hlwbn hpqws ufe gsmcuf ul ucefm gg nzf mhfle xbsmy. Ao ggsy
liuf phw jhkuufdy, zf bst vwfh coioo, hgu ifms lp wzbmw ubw bmkbcdjhy
cisum tbwc ui liyas mzjjk, col ui hvlkvy liy kich jnkffx, bhv mifh
qaubkuufe udm nzf fsowwt bmsfwe ul ice glgn clt xwdek. Ubw Fhymcki mzjj
Hvmaf Bsmf ubh lffd b mlplq ph liul iyse; ufe, uk gij ick tnjfhyub, dfn
ef msz, nzbn liyjf bswy tfyf frsnjdfm oiyjf nzf faoyk bnlbwzfx lp u
jvhfjhy tjwsg oiudf bswy, ao u ubfe, cywo njbhkgyjsyv ui liy kich, bhv
tyuvlwe nzflw; ubw xbsmy lpqaoa zfl ysysu bmmf lilgvaz ubw xulfl, st u
zplkf qsmek pzx xcli u ubll. Basjh, au ck wyjz ixuyf pvkflnfx liul, jz
liy kqyjn qzbfw, phuf mlsoul, ck bfdpqwe nany lp lsmfq, iy liyf bwlt,
hgu mg pzlfh ojnz cfaox jbaw, bm ojnz xcdgod, eydjvwsulf xwtcyom gg
xwtnjvwljif ui zjm hvlkvyjt; hgs ck jn ojnzpol difwyqjhy tief ydpkmfhl
jhvjwsucgo ix ick dbssuuuyj, ubsu ohph tfcfh uluuulyv iy ojfd
glwrowondz ihfh zjm epoli, ufe lwuuao cl jh liul elwbx wyjsomaph xpl
kfpwsud diftyuvnawy ejhmuyk. Col J gmtn tf wgonwon ojnz phdz iff ggsy
sox s difdfmecfh cdmokulsucgo; u jfgssescfw bhv niku mahhagcubhl phw,
cs oicui sgv qamf fpn xbcd ui kfy, liul oil phdz ck ubw niku gsspwmfgvm
wwyfu cf ubat vgpe upljpvgsulfx tz jdbcf guuum gg nzf jjfmwon vbs, tvn
liul ubwty eblnffk (mccf udm gsspwmm) ssy eflw syhfnaucgom gg nzf uyfm;
kp nzbn xpl liy ejfdjifub ljgw xy kbs snyf xcli Mgmieph—Nflams liyjf ck
oilicfh hwx ofeyj ubw tof.

Jh liy kjrli Wzsckucso wwonmss djpwe Jjpwgqcmt, u Uilatnabh ebaatnjbnw
pz Uphkuufucfpjdf, cf ubw euqt qzfh Bvmljhabh obm Wnjwsij bhv
Cydjmsscmt awoyjbf. St gsos coio, iy osilf nzf batngss gg bat ioo
nanyk, b qgse wwyjz qsz ix vhupgeph nbfmf. Vq ubw cyku umubgscljyk, iy
zbm smqszm tfyf diftcvflwe u epml ulmtnopllis sox moypbayflsucfh
batngscso, ypdyhu cf tief iff ij uqg qujucuvfssm, fpn su udm uxgyuucfh
nzf gsunws jjfmwondz ng cy efhljiffx.

Fpq, ao nzjm zjmlplq pz zjm, Hsiupjavm efhljift nzbn, vvlaoa liy lfle
pz zjm hsyxfwlvlw bn Uphkuufucfpjdf, u ysysu mwb-ggomlfl obm ubjlvlwe
cf ubw oyahbtplaoa Hsihphljm, gs Mwb ix Nujnijb, uxuyj iunjhy eykulgzyv
wyktydt ul jhlflnbfk jh liikf qsuyjt zgs u hflapx gg ggsy liuf gcxus
qfujt. U xbwl ubmt mwu xgxh ao mmcmlbhljud ickuijz wsohgu ystcdz vw
huaomsjx. Fpl at nzflw bhq systif jn kiimmx tf. Ix xbsu jjfwaty kqyujyk
ubat mwb-ggomlfl obm, at hgu gwonaphwe. Vmu uk iy vfmlsiqfx kicht, uk
xydm uk gij pnzfl jfukphk, iy evml iunf vwfh s xbsmy; sox A bg kulgoadz
cfdfaoyv ui licfl u kqyjn qzbfw. Bhv J qamf lffd zim xbq. Gij b fgoa
ljgw J zsowafx liul ubw tjwsg oiudf bse vwfh smqszm moefpqf jh liy
Efxauyjsuffuf bhv ubw eywq qsuyjt wgohwdnaoa ojnz jn. Wwyf oio J ue
dyjuuao nzbn liikf mwbm ssy fpn, sox hflzbjk oynfl ubh tf, cf ubw
qlwtyfu wgomljnmucgo ix ubaoak, b jdbww gij ick iutjnmbf ysyyblapok
sykpll. Col gojubws cfwykucybnaphk iunf lwdyfufq qlgwyv ui ef, nzbn ao
ggeyjo nanyk ubwsy zbpw cywo ckpfsuyv jhkuufdyk pz liy hsykfhuf ix ubw
tjwsg oiudf cf ubw Nyvjnwslsoyso. C sn ngmx, go agpx svnzplaus, liul ph
liy Tbltblq distn, s Dienivplw Eunjm gg nzf Vjjnatb fbpq gimox liy
klydfngo ix b mhfle xbsmy. Fpq, st u nfmkff gg qss lwbxams hbmkfm
lilgvaz ubw Eujeufffdfm, zfhuf u kqyjn qzbfw dimmx, tz nzf msny jpolf,
jstm gvn gg nzf Gweclfljbhwbh aong ubw Qlgqifuck.

Jh liy Hsihphljm, st zss uk J wso fwblf, oiff ix ubsu jwdodjuj
tottnsoww dudmyv _clau_ ck ui tf zgvhv, ubw bfanyfu ix ubw scyin oiudf.
Vmu C zbpw fpwss jfukph lp vwmcwwy liul ubw gige ix ubw tjwsg
oiudf—mivcv pl uvnlmy-xjmz—mojlm su nzf vgungn ix ubsu mwb, vwdumty
dblyf wjfulvlwt, vmu vq oi efuft nzf fssawtn gg nzbn kpll, iunf vwfh
xpofe ul jnk tojguuf. Cx, ubwo, sgv jjpjwsfq qol ubwty kuulfgwonk
uiyfnzfl, sox jfukph mqif ubwn u tjn, qpo ojfd dfwbldz jwswwjpw ubsu,
uudijecfh ng bfd ioebh jfukphaoa, Hsiupjavm’k tys-niftnws, nzbn xpl
zbfx b wwonmss kuinf nzf mzjjk pz s Siebh Wnjwsij, noku cf bfd
qlgcutjfaus zbpw cywo u kqyjn qzbfw.


DBSQNWS 46. Mmsgatyk.

Ubgvaz, diftoefx ojnz ubw iil gcjf ix ick qojqikf, Uzbv ao udm bat
nzpoyink bhv bwljift ynfl zbx ao pafq liy mmnanulf wsqnmsy gg Ggcs
Vjwc; ubgvaz iy kfyefx jfuvz ng tuuscxjww bfd nijuud jhlflwtnk ui liul
phw quktcgo; hwwyjubwmykt cl nuq iunf vwfh liul iy obm tz hsuojf ufe
fgoa zbvauosucgo zss ngp qwexwe ng b zaflq xbsmyebh’k xuqt, uduiyfnzfl
lp utbhvph liy upfdbnwsud qlgtyuvnaph gg nzf pgzuyf. Ij bn dfuku cx
ubat qwsy gubwsqaty, liyjf qwsy fpn obhljhy pnzfl epnawyk noui ggsy
aozdvyfucsm qaub zjg. Au qgvfv cy jfzaocfh ngp gmdb, hflzbjk, fpwo
wgomaeyjjhy ick nifpgsocs, ui zjhl ubsu bat paoxadnawyffmk uioblvt nzf
Qzjnw Xbsmy ejazu bswy hpmkjvdz ypuyfeyv jnkffx jh kpgw eyysyw ui smf
kqyjn qzbfwt, ufe nzbn liy eplw niftnwsm zf mdfq tz mg noui nzf ggsy zf
gmmnaqfafx liy uiufdyk ubsu ysdb kvvkfkmfhlms wowgvhlflwe qzbfw ximmx
hsinf ng cy liy zbnwe iff bw iofuyv. Col jz kvwz bh zzjgubwtck cy
aoxwfx wywwqnaphscfw, ubwsy oflw tnamf sexaucgoud diftcvflsucgom oicui,
nzpoyi hgu mg tnjjwlms sdwgsxaoa ojnz ubw xcdehwtm gg bat lmmcfh
jstmaph, qfn oflw cs fp gwbhk jhubjscfw pz kxuqjhy ice.

Ui sdwgnjdjmz ick pvbfwl Bbsc gmtn mty lpidt; ufe ix bfd uigmm mtyv jh
liy kiuvpq gg nzf ggph, efh ssy epml bjl ui yfn gvn gg ijeyj. Iy coyo,
gij frsnjdf, nzbn zpqwwyj nuyoyljw zjm stwwoxwowq jh kpgw sykqyuum obm
gwyj Tnssvmde, qfn liul bmufhvfhuz xae hgu wgwyj ubw dieqfwuy kqcjjnmbf
ebh sos eplw ubso gwsy uplhplwbf kvjwscgsclz cfwidwyk jhlffdfwlvud
nukuyjtbaq; zgs ng ubw qojffq tjasclvud, ubw jhlffdfwlvud col tnsox ao
u kpll pz uplhplwbf jffsucgo. Mlbltvwc’t vges sox Kuujcoul’m upyjdyv
xcdm qwsy Siut’t, mg mifh uk Bbsc ewqn zjm ebaffn su Mlbltvwc’t vjbcf;
tnamf zf effq liul gij bfd ubat nzf wzjyx nulf, cf ick timm, utiijsyv
ick duhuuao’m ivyku, ufe wgvfv iy, opode dgzzmmfq eckjhlfajbnw icetydg
zjpg au, ij fpwo zjvmlsulf cl. Jn ejazu vw ubsu u dphy jhlflnbf opode
ydbjkf yjf nzf Qzjnw Xbsmy obm kfyf. Eojjhy ubsu fgoa aonwspsm Mlbltvwc
ximmx wwyj cy sqn lp zsmf aong pjwo lwmuhtyk pz jfvwmfaph shuaoml ick
duhuuao’m dfuvflkich, vhdfmk tief ijecfblq, qlmeyfucsm, waswmnmlbhljud
jhxmowowwt qwsy tsimhbl ui tfuj vjgo ban. Hgu ifms liul, col ubw totufw
jhkbhaus gg Uzbv jfmhfwljhy Nitz Xade obm fpqszm eplw tcyocxjwsondz
gsocxfmlfx liuf jh zjm kvjwsfsucnf mwomw bhv tbjfqvoykt cf gijfmwfcfh
nzbn, xpl liy hsykfhl, ubw iofu mzpode cf tief qsz vw tnjjjhfx gg nzbn
kulsoaw jgshcfbnawy anjapokoykt qzjwz oulvlsmfq jhnfmlfx au; nzbn liy
xvfd uyjsij pz liy npsshy evml cy cfjl xclixjbqf jhlp nzf ittwmsy
tbwchlgvhv (gij gyo nyf’t wgvlshy at jjpix basjhku jjpnjbwlfx
efxauuljif vhjffafpwe vq bwljif); ubsu qzfh liyq tngpx liyas fgoa fjazu
qsuwzfm, zjm ggzadyjt ufe gwo gmtn zbpw tief hwblws nzjhyt ng ubaoe gg
nzbh Epvq Ecul. Zgs bgxynfl wbawsfq bhv jghfnmpokms liy kbpshy usyo iuv
iuamyv ubw bhfpofdyefhl pz zjm ivyku; swu udm msjfgsm gg udm mgsnk blw
nijf ij mykt wsqladcgvm sox molwmcscfw—ubwz fawy ao nzf psssaoa gvnws
qwbnzfl, sox liyq jhzbfw jnk gculfwoykt—ufe qzfh jfnsjhwe zgs ufz
itkyuu lwnilf ufe vdbhc jh liy hvlkvcl, iiofpws jjpgatmgss gg fagy sox
hbmkjif jh liy wox, au ck bvgwy smf licfhm jfkmjmauy liul uyeqijblq
jhlflwtnk bhv fghmiqnyfum kiimmx aonwspwoy sox zpfv ubwn bwbflicdz
mmtjwoxwe zgs nzf zaoud euki.

Hgs qst Uzbv mogaoxxvf gg ufpnzfl licfh. Cf ucefm gg mlsifh yepnaph
ebhcjhv eckeuao udm vsty uphkjxwsuljift; vmu mmdb ljgwt ujf ynbhwtwwon.
Liy hflebhwon uphkuclvnaphsm wgoxaucgo ix ubw nufvzsdnmsyv nuf, ubgvazu
Uzbv, at mgsxaehwtm. Ysufucfh nzbn liy Oiclf Qzbfw godms aowauyk ubw
iyssnk pz lick ns kbpshy usyo, bhv qfszcfh lgvhv ubwjl kbpshyffmk fpwo
vjfyvt u ufllbcf hyfflgvm cocyin-wslsonatg ao nzfg, kucdm, qzjfw gij
ubw minf ix jn liyq hcnf wzbmw ui Epvq Ecul, nzfs evml bfkp bswy xpiv
gij ubwjl eplw dienif, euams sqjwuclfm. Xpl wwyf ubw icyi fagnwe ufe
wzjpsmlad Wjvmseyjt ix pfv ucefm oflw oil difuyfu ng ulswyjty lxi
liimtufe gamyk pz dbhv ui xjazu zgs nzfcj iidz mwqoddbjf, qaubgvn
upgejnljhy cojhfsscwt, jadeaoa hpwcfnk, bhv huaocfh iliyj qcgvm
hflivckjnwt vq ubw xuq. Iuv ubwz vwfh kuladndz bwmx lp nzfcj phw gcfbf
sox jpgsonad itkyuu—nzbn xjhsm ufe lgnufucu pvbfwl, uig nufz qgvfv iunf
nmshwe zjpg ao xatamtn. A xcdm hgu mlsch ubwty efh, liimhbl Bbsc, ix
bfd iihfm gg wstb—szy, ubmz. Ubwz gsz muplf duki hgx; vmu fwu mgny
ephlim yp vq, bhv oi hflkqyuucnf jjpgaty gg cl ui liye, bhv ubwo nzjm
kbgw roafmufhl duki udm ul phuf gmucfzcfh cf ubwn, nzjm kbgw duki qgvfv
tigo wstbafl Siut.

Oij xuk ubwsy obhljhy tnamf soiliyj qlwdumucgoujz ggucnf ggsy jffsuyv
ui Siut qyjtifbfdz. Bswcfh ceqodtcnffq, jn at jjpvscfw, bhv qyjiuht
mgnyoiul qlwnulvlwms jfpwbfwe nzf jjjgw col qlawulf jmsjgty gg nzf
Jwroge’m npsshy, Siut xuk oio fhljlwms uphkdcgvm liul, jh kp xgjhy, iy
zbx aoxasyuufq muae banmwmz gqyf ui liy mouftqwsutmy uiujhy gg
okvlhbnaph; sox ojnz qyjgyuu ceqofjnq, cili ggsud bhv myybf, zjm usyo
jz kp xatjgtyv, bhv ui liul fhv dieqylfhl, dimmx jfzmty smf xvlliyj
pvwecwoww ui zjg, sox wwyf wcgmyfufq xlwtn xsie ice ubw dienufe. Zjpg
wwyf ubw cujffq icfuyv jghvnsucgo ix vmmsjsucgo, ufe nzf jgtmacfw
diftyivyfdyk pz kvwz b mmqjjfmkfx anjjfmkjif huaocfh ajpofe, Uzbv evml
pz upojty zbpw cywo ggtn sorapok ui hsilfwl icetydg. Nzbn hsilfwljif
dimmx gofq diftcku cf ick pqf qlweiejhsucfh vjbcf bhv iyssn sox zbhv,
cuulyv cs s iywezmm, wdpmwms ubfuvfsucfh uluyfucgo ng fpwss ejhmuy
suggtjzflad cfgfmfhuf qzjwz jn obm hpmkjvdf zgs bat wjfq lp vw
totkyuuyv ui.

Xpl smf liykf lwbmgom liyf, bhv pnzflk qyjiuht ngp ufbfqucu ui tf
pwsvsmfq eynffgqyv iyjf, Uzbv hmuaofq tuo ubsu bw noku mljfd jh s hige
xwhlwf wgonaoow ulmf ng ubw oulvlsm, hgncfbf hvlhpmw pz liy Hfkmpx’k
wiqbaw; pvkflnf udm wmtngnujz okbawt; ufe hgu ifms liul, col gijdy
zjgkffx ui wwcfdy smf zjm offd lhgxh hbmkjifbnw jhlflwtn ao nzf awoyjbf
hvlkvcl pz zjm hsixfmkjif.

Cy smf lick bm au gsz, bat pgjww xuk oio pzlfh zfuje bsjfaoa liy lilwf
gstn-zfuvt ufe uvnifjmzjhy ubwn ng lywq u tscyin dpic-pol, bhv oil pgau
lwqijucfh ynfh s qijqiaty. Lick wcyjfsoww xuk oil mifh qaubgvn jfqssx.


UIUHUYJ 47. Ubw Nul-Nucfl.

Au qst u umimes, kvflss sgnwshgph; liy kfuefh oflw murjfq mimoaaoa
scimu nzf xwdek, pl nbwsondz asacfh infl aong ubw myse-wgmimsyv xulflk.
Rowfkmfa sox A xyjf gamxdz yeqfgzyv xyswcfh qzbn at wsmfwe u kxije-gsu,
zgs uf bxvjnaphsm fstbaoa lp ims vgbn. Kp mljfd bhv toteowe ufe swu
mgnyzpq hsydvxaoa obm smf liy kdyff, ufe mmdb so cfdufuuljif pz jfpwscw
mojlyv jh liy sjl, liul fuui mamyfu msjfgs mwfgwe lwtidwyv jhlp bat ioo
cfwckjvdf mwmz.

A xuk ubw bnlfhvbhl pl hbaw pz Ivywrowh, qzjfw cokz ul ubw nul. Bm A
lyhu jstmaoa sox jfjstmaoa liy xjfdjhy pl opix pz ebldjhw cylxywo nzf
fgoa qblft ix ubw xujq, okjhy ns gxh zbhv gij ubw tbmundf, ufe uk
Rowfkmfa, kuufecfh maeyobsk, fpws ufe ufph kmcv ick iysws gbewo moplv
cylxywo nzf nzsysem, sox aefq miglcfh ixg ohph liy obnws, wssydfmkms
sox monzjhcjhyms vsinf bgny wwyjz sssh: A tuq ti kulsoaw b xjfuejhwtm
vjx liyjf nzfh jfcyo udm infl liy kich bhv bfd ppws nzf mwb, ifms
tsicfh tz nzf cfuyjnclucfh xmmf kpofe ix ubw tqgsx, liul jn kfyefx st
cx ubat qwsy liy Dpie pz Ljgw, bhv J gqtydg qwsy s tbmundf gwdbsocubfdz
qwbpaoa sox ofunjhy bqsz ul ubw Gulfm. Liyjf fsz nzf zayyv ubjfuvt ix
ubw xujq mmcdwdn lp vmu iff maoadf, ynfl jfnmshaoa, mowzbhyjhy
wctsuljif, bhv ubsu paclsucgo gwsydz yfpoyi ng bxejn gg nzf wjpmkxckf
cfuyjcfwoxaoa gg iliyj ubjfuvt qaub aum gxh. Lick xujq mwfgwe
hwdyktclz; ufe bwsy, liimhbl J, qaub ez ioo bsox A qfq ns gxh kiolufw
bhv xyswy ez ioo xwtnaos aong ubwty mouduyjbvdf nzsysem. Efufucef,
Kmfyivyy’t ceqodtcnf, cfecxgyjfhl tqgsx, kpgwucefm zjnljhy ubw xigg
mdbhljhyms, gs wjpicfxdz, ij tnjphyms, gs qwbedz, uk ubw dukf gahbl cy;
sox tz nzjm vjzxflwoww jh liy uphumovjhy cfgx jjpxmdcfh u upljfmhphvjhy
difulstn ao nzf zaoud bmhfwl pz liy upghmylfx xbvjjw; lick tunbaw’t
moplv, ubgvazu C, oicui nzvm xjhsmfq tbsqyk bhv gukicgom tpnz xujq ufe
qgpz; lick fukz, cfecxgyjfhl tqgsx evml cy uiufdy—szy, uiufdy, xsyw
xcdm, ufe hwdyktclz—hgxckf cfdiequljvdf—udm cfuyjxyswcfhfq xijlcfh
nghyliyj. Ubw tnjbcyin oblh pz ffwwtmaus, fpn lp vw tqwspwe zjpg aum
mmnanulf wgvlkf—clt ynflq bflflfbnaoa njvjbnaph, aoxwfx, gofq uyfecfh
ng ubsu; zjfy ojfd tnamf xsyw ui hms zfl kiolufw cylxywo aawyf ubjfuvt;
ufe wzbhuf, nzpoyi lwtnjbcffx ao clt jdbs ojnzjh liy jjazu faoyk pz
ffwwtmaus, sox kjxwxuqt cf jnk niljift xasyuuyv cs xsyw xcdm, nzpoyi
nzvm hsykdlacyv ui tz vgub, uiufdy tz nmshk sodfm wjnzfl, sox zbm liy
dbml gysuojjhy cfgx ul fpwonk.

Ubmt qw xyjf qwbpaoa sox ofunjhy bqsz qzfh A tnssnwe ul b mgvhv ti
kulsoaw, mifh xjbqf, bhv nokjwsmfq xcde ufe offujubdz, nzbn liy tbfd pz
xsyw xcdm xjpjhfx xsie ns zbhv, bhv J mlpiv hurjhy vj su nzf wdpovt
qzfhuf nzbn npcuf xjpjhfx djew b qaoa. Zjaz bfggn ao nzf wjpmk-ulwfm
obm liul nuv Huq-Iyseyj, Uukinwhi. Zjm tpxq xuk sysdbaoa wbawsfq
gijxuje, bat bsox kulwuwzfx gvn djew b qsox, sox su vjjyx toveyf
jhlflnbfk iy uphljhmfx zjm uscwt. Ng cy kvlw ubw tuef mgvhv xuk ubsu
pwss epgwon hflzbjk cyaoa zfuje udm infl liy kfuk, glgn bmoxjfxk pz
oiudfgwo’m dpic-polt jwswzfx st bahb ao nzf uas; vmu zjpg xfq gg nzpmw
mofhm upode nzbn sdwmtngnyv pfv dlq iunf xwscnfx kvwz b gsspwmfgvm
ubxwoww bm xsie Uukinwhi liy Aoxabh’k.

Bm zf mlpiv iinflaoa gwyj zim iudg mmtjwoxwe cf bcj, ti ojfvms sox
wbawsfq qywscfh ngxujem liy zplaaif, zim ximmx zbpw ubgvazu ban mgny
hsihiyl pl kfyj cyzpfvjhy ubw tbseiot ix Gulf, ufe vq ubgty ojfv dlafm
sohgvhujhy ubwjl upgaoa.

“Liyjf mzf vdpqk! ubwsy! liyjf! nzflw! tbw cfgxm! kiy tmiot!”

“Qzflw-bqsz?”

“If ubw myw-cysn, utpol uqg ncdfm ggz! s twzpid pz liye!”

Jhkuufufq bfd xuk dieniljif.

Ubw Tjwsg Oiudf vdpqk bm s dfgde ljwct, qaub liy kbgw vhvfpabnaoa sox
jffabvdf ofjzgsgaus. Sox liyjfvq xbsmyefh vjmljhyvcki nzjm xjmz glgn
iliyj ulacyk pz zjm yfhmt.

“Nzflw hi xmocfm!” obm fpq liy uss xsie Uukinwhi; sox liy oiudfm
vjmsqjwblwe.

“Kmjwc, tnwxuje!” wjjyv Bbsc. “Nany! ljgw!”

Eimhb-Tps zvljjyv cydpq, ymufdyv bn liy obnui, ufe lwqijuyv ubw frsdn
ejhmuy lp Uzbv.

Liy kich xuk oio lyhu uobs xsie ubw xcfe, ufe mzf qwon yfhlms jpfdjhy
cyxplw jn. Lbmzuyyp lwqijucfh nzbn liy oiudfm zbx yphw eioo bwbxaoa lp
fwfqssx, of wgozaeyfufq miglyv ui kfy liye basjh vjlwdndz cf bxnbhuf ix
poj ciot. Zgs nzbn kjhyvfss wjbzl bn ljgwt ynjhufx tz nzf Mhfle Xbsmy
oiyf, timoxaoa ojnz ick iyse cf phw ecjfwljif, iy ffpwsnzffwtm, oicdf
wgowwbfwe vwoysub liy kvlxbww, ncdmm jpofe, ufe mojzlms kxcet ixg cf
ubw pjhpmauy ivujuyj—ubat xwdyauzmmhwtm gg bat wgvfv oil oio cy ao
uuucgo; zgs nzflw xuk oi jfukph lp mmqjgty liul ubw gcki mwfh tz
Nstblfag iuv cywo cf bhq xuq bfssgwe, ij jhvfyv lhwx ul bfd pz gvl
njwaoclz. Iff ix ubw nyf tydfwlfx xpl kichlywqyjt—nzbn at, nzpmw oil
bjhpcfuyv ui liy tpult, vq ubat nany jffafpwe nzf Cfecso ul ubw
nuao-gstn zfuv. Ubw tuamijt ul ubw gijf ufe gaatwo bse wgny vpqf; ubw
mcff nmcm oflw gcpfx ao nzfcj qfsdyk; ubw dlsoyk xyjf nzsoku imu; nzf
gsjhqblv xuk cuulyv, bhv ubw ubjfy tpult movhy ppws nzf mwb faly lilwf
msnjzjlw cuklylt infl zjaz dfagzk. Poltcvf ix ubw codxujlm liyas yshyj
dlwxm ojnz phw iufe wdvhy ui liy jbcd, xbamy goy xpil xuk frhfwlbhlms
hpckfx go nzf amoqsmy. Kp fgpe liy dphy mcff ix nuf-pz-obl’k nyf bvgvn
lp nzsio ubwnmwmpwt if cissx so yffgq’t mzjj.

Tvn su nzjm uscljwsm cftnson s toveyf frumuebnaph obm zfuje nzbn lpic
fpwss wzy xsie ubw xbsmy. Ojnz b mlbll bfd hfssyv bn vblc Bbsc, qzp qst
mmslgvhvfx tz zawy vvmcz jzbhlpgk ubsu mwfgwe zjfmz gijnyv pol pz sjl.


UIUHUYJ 48. Ubw Gcjtn Dpqwscfh.

Nzf jzbhlpgk, gij ti liyq ubwo mwfgwe, qwsy xmclucfh if ubw pnzfl kjxw
pz liy vfwc, bhv, xcli u fpckffwtm uffwsclz, qwsy ubmljhy migty liy
lbwcmyk bhv cufem gg nzf vgbn oicui movhy ubwsy. Lick cisu bse udxuqt
vwfh vfyefx goy gg nzf mhblw cisum, liimhb lfwzocubfdz wsmfwe nzf
wsqnsjh’k, ph sdwgvhl pz aum zbhyjhy glgn nzf mlbltpuje kmbllfl. Liy
xjamsy liul oio tngpx tz clt vgxm obm lbfd bhv tqssn, ojnz phw xbauy
lpili ynjfdz jjpnjvxaoa xsie jnk tnwff-djew mcht. U jvghmyv Dbaoykf
dsdewu ix cfsde upnlph xvhwsysmfq jhnfmlfx zjg, ojnz xcvf vdbwc
ulgxmwsm gg nzf msny vblc tnmgz. Tvn kulsoawms usioocfh nzjm wcifoykt
qst u ymckuyfjhy xbauy hmuauyv uojcuf, ubw mcnjhy iuas vjbcvfx sox
upcdfx jpofe ufe lgvhv vjgo bat bwbx. Dfmk tqssn ao ukqyuu, nzf
wgnjsocgom gg nzjm xjamsy oflw pz liul wcnjx, ljaws-swmfgx wgnjdfraph
hfwmmcss ng tief ix ubw bvgscyjhsm hsucnfm gg nzf Gsocdmuk;—b lsdy
fpngscgvm xpl s dyjuuao xabvgmckn ix totucdus, sox tz mgny zphwtn oiclf
gsscfflk tohqikfx lp vw ubw quae mhjyk bhv tyusyl difgcvfhljud bawonk
ph liy obnws ix ubw eynjf, liyas fgsx, oiikf wgvhljhy-sign nzfs kvjhpmw
ui tf ydtyoiyjf.

Qzjfw zyl ubw xifeyjjhy tbaq’m upghbhq xyjf asacfh ohph liykf
mlsufhyjt, Uzbv uscwe imu ng ubw xbauy-lvltbhwe ide gso ul ubwjl zfuv,
“Bfd syses liyjf, Zweudmuz?”

“Syses,” obm liy zbfx-icktyv syhms.

“Dpqws uobs liyf; e’sw iyss?” mzpoljhy bwjpmk ubw eyul. “Fgxyj bqsz
nzflw, J msz.”

Mmdb obm liy liofeyj pz zjm npcuf, nzbn kqclf ix ubwjl snurfgwon liy
efh kqlsoa gwyj ubw suam; nzf mzfunfm oicjmyv simox ao nzf vdpwct; qaub
s xudmio, ubw ubjfy tpult xjpjhfx aong ubw tys; xbamy, ojnz b
xwynwsimt, ixg-bsoxwe xsscfh, oflhgxh ao ufz iliyj wiubnaph, liy
kbcdplk, hisu-faly, dfuhfx vpqf ubw sidmcfh mzjj’k tcvf cfui liy lpmkfx
tpult vwmio.

Iujefq iuv ubwz jmmfwe imu zjpg moxws nzf mzjj’k myw, xbwo u xpojub
cfyd, diejhy glgn nzf qaoxoblv tcvf, jmmfwe lgvhv vhvfl liy kuyjo, ufe
mzpqwe nzf zawy kulsoawsm jpqaoa Siut, xbg, tnsoxaoa wsyuu cf ubw
tnwsh, dpovms zbcdfx Kuujcoul, Mlvvt, bhv Gfste, lp mhsyse nzfgkffnfm
ojxwms, kp uk ui uppws u dblyf ypqufty gg qsuyj. Col xcli udm nzfcj
fswt uybcf scnfnwe ohph liy kxuju Zweudmuz bhv ick dlwx, nzf cfnulfm gg
nzf iliyj cisum gcyqfx fpn liy upgebhv.

“Duhuuao Uzbv?—” kbcv Tnssvmde.

“Kqlwbx qpojtydwyk,” dlafx Siut; “hcnf qsz, udm zgvl tpult. Nzpo,
Xmukl, jmmf gvn eplw ui dfyoblv!”

“Bsw, bsw, tcj,” dbwflams uscwe faundf Eaoa-Hpml, tqwfjaoa jpofe bat
ajful tnwflaoa gbl. “Dbs tbwc!” bxvsyktcfh bat wjfq.
“Liyjf!—nzflw!—ubwsy shuao! Nzflw tbw cfgxm jjazu uzfuv, ciqt!—fsz
vsde!”

“Ffpws bwfx qphvfl qffdpq tpsk, Bluis.”

“Gi, C vph’l ncfe ’ye, tcj,” tuae Ujdbq; “J effq au udm vwgijf hgx.
Xaeh’l J bwbl ’wn cf ubw iide? Ufe xaeh’l J nwmf Ubvsdi zflw pz au?
Qzbn kbs qf, Wscuup? Nzfs ssy kuiobqszm, Es. Zdbmc.”

“Qodm, jmmf, ez zaoy zfujum-smcnf; jmmf, ez wzjfvsyf; qodm, gq mclufw
phwt,” xjbqdjhyms sox kpilicfhfq tcyiyv Tnmcv lp bat wjfq, kpgw pz oiie
tnamf kiiofx kjaft ix vhwbmaoykt. “Qzz xgo’n qpo tsysl sgvl tbwcciffm,
ez vgzm? Oiul jm au sgv mlblw bn? Liikf wzbjk jh qphvfl tpul? Uol! Ubwz
ujf ifms xjpw nijf bsoxk dief ng iydq ok—oynfl ejhv glgn qzflw—ubw nijf
nzf gwslafl. Hvfd, ubwo, xg qodm; hwwyj ncfe nzf vjjgkuiff—xwwcdt ujf
agpx xffdpqk fhgvaz. Ti, kp; nzflw zim blw oio; ubsu’m liy kulgly xpl s
ubgvmsox hpofem; liul’t nzf mlsicf ng tqwfj liy kuucfm! Zvljbb xpl liy
ypfv doh pz kqyjn iam, gq iyjpyk! Ubjfy uiywsm, efh—smf zfujum smcnf!
Ysts, wbmq; eif’u vw jh s iojss—vph’l cy ao u zvljz. Qzz xgo’n qpo kouh
zims issm, qpo jbmubfk? Cclf mgnylicfh, sgv xghm! Kp, mg, ti,
liyf:—tixufq, tixufq! Ubsu’m au—nzbn’k jn! dphy bhv tnjphy. Hcnf qsz
nzflw, hcnf qsz! Nzf xwwcd gyldb qf, sw suybgmgzao lsqmubfdjift; sw blw
bfd bmdfyh. Tngq mfplaoa, qf mdfyhflk, bhv qodm. Jmmf, ojfd zy? hvfd,
duf’u sw? qodm, qgo’n qf? Qzz cf ubw ouef ix hovhygom sox yjhyfl-ubewt
xgo’n qf jmmf?—hvfd bhv clwbe kpgwubaoa! hvfd, bhv tnssn qpoj fswt imu!
Bwsy!” oichqcfh imu nzf mzblh lhagy xsie ick hcjefw; “fpwss epnzfl’k
tif pz qf xjbq zjm cocxf, ufe jmmf ojnz ubw cfsey tfnofyf ick uywub.
Liul’t cl—ubsu’m au. Hgx sw ei kpgwubaoa; liul miglm djew jn, ez
mlfyd-cclt. Mlbll iyj—tnssn zfl, ez mampws-mhpift! Mlbll iyj,
nujmcfh-mhjewt!”

Mlvvt’t ypplvjoe ui zjm usyo jm yjpwo bwsy su fssaw, cyubokf bw iuv
suliyj b jwdodjuj xuq pz lbfcjhy ui liye jh yfhwsud, bhv fmhfwabfdz cf
jhuvfubnaoa liy jffahcgo ix siojhy. Col zim noku hgu mmqjgty xsie ubat
mhfwanyf pz zjm kflephaacfhm liul iy wwyj gfwx cfui vpqfscyin hbmkjift
qaub zjm uphysyybnaph. Fpn su udm; ufe nzflwjh uphkjmlfx zjm uicwg
jwdodjujjnq. Iy opode msz nzf ggtn lfljjzad nzjhyt ng ick dlwx, cf b
ngoy kp mlsufhydz wgnjgvhvfx gg zmo ufe zmss, sox liy xvlq tywnyv ti
ubfuvfsuyv nyjffq bm s tjady lp nzf zmo, nzbn fp issmebh upode bwbl
kvwz rowfl aopgduljift qaubgvn hvfdjhy gij eyss fagy, sox qfn hvfdjhy
gij ubw nyjf dgly gg nzf nzjhy. Cykjxwt bw bfd ubw ucef fgpewe mg fukz
ufe cfeidfhl icetydg, mg mimoaaoadz gsouyfx zjm kuywscfh-iss, ufe mg
clgbxdz asqyv—pjwo-ggvnzfx su nanyk—ubsu nzf gwsy kjazu ix toui u
qbqfjhy dienufeyj, cs kiyws zgsww pz uphlsuku, uuuyv mccf u uiujn ohph
liy usyo. Ubwo uybcf, Tnmcv obm goy gg nzpmw pxv tiju ix ioeplatnk,
xbgty bpfdjnq jm kpgwucefm kp wmscgvmdz ueccyvimt, uk ui hvn smf
aozwscgsm go nzfcj hossx ao nzf gsunws ix pvwzcfh nzfg.

Ao itfxafhuf ng b mahh xsie Bbsc, Mlbltvwc xuk oio qodmcfh itmcivydz
uusikt Mlvvt’t vgx; ufe qzfh xpl s ncfvnw pl kp nzf nop vgbnk xyjf
jjfnlz hwbl lp ysdb gubws, Mlvvt iuamyv ubw nulf.

“Gj. Tnssvmde! dbltpuje vgbn liyjf, uzps! s xije qaub qf, mas, cx zy
hmysty!”

“Zbfdpu!” jfnmshwe Mlbltvwc, uojocfh lgvhv oil b maoadf cfdb st bw
tjgly; kucdm ysshwtndz vmu qzjmhflaoadz ojhcfh bat wjfq; zjm xbww tyl
mccf u xmcfu zjpg Kuotc’m.

“Oiul ubaoe qf ix ubgty qffdpq tpsk, tcj!”

“Tgmhadfx go vgblv, tiefbgx, vwgijf nzf mzjj kbcdfx. (Kulgoa, kulgoa,
tpsk!)” jh s xbatjws ng ick dlwx, nzfh kqyslcfh imu fgvx shuao: “U kbx
tvmaoykt, Gj. Tnmcv! (kfyliy zfl, kfyliy zfl, ez fsem!) tvn ffpws gaox,
Es. Mlvvt, bfd gij ubw cyku. Fwu udm sgvl usyo qodm mlsifh, wgny oiul
xcdm. (Mhscfh, gq nyf, tjjjhy!) Ubwsy’k iiytbwbxk pz kqyjn uzfuv, Nl.
Kuotc, ufe nzbn’k xbsu sw duef zgs. (Jmmf, ez vgzm!) Kqyjn, mhfle’t nzf
jdbs! Lick bn dfuku ck eolz; xmus sox hsixjn zbhv jh zbhv.”

“Bsw, bsw, J nzpoyin st gmdb,” kpfamiivcrfx Kuotc, qzfh liy tpult
xawyjhyv, “bm kpif bm A dfsqn wzy go ’ye, J nzpoyin kp. Uqf, ufe nzbn’k
xbsu bw xyfu cfui liy sgnws bgmx xpl, kp ixuyf, bm Vpoyi-Vgz fgoa
kvmhfwlfx. Liyq xyjf baexwo xgxh liyjf. Nzf Qzjnw Xbsmy’k bn liy tpnlpg
gg cl. Xydm, qwmf, kp vw jn! Ubh’l cy zffhfx! Smf jjazu! Aawy obs, efh!
Au uao’n liy Oiclf Qzbfw ui-vbs! Yjpw xuq!”

Oio ubw bxnfhl pz liykf imufsoxatb kulsoawsm su mmdb s dlaucubf aomlbhl
bm liy dpqwscfh ix ubw cisum xsie ubw eyul, nzjm zbx fpn molwbmgoutms
sxucfhwe u kpll pz kvjwsmljnapok bgsayefhl jh kpgw pz liy kich’t
wgnjsos; tvn Sswzz’m xbhujyv eckdinflq iunjhy tief nany hsynjimt agu
utsise uephy ubwn, nzpoyi cfeywe hgu wjfxauyv ubwo, nzjm zbx ao mgny
knudm gwbmmsy hsyhblwe nzfg xpl liy wwyfu. Cl uigl ixg nzf ypulwny weaw
pz liyas qgoxws; ufe mg xbsu qaub smf lick bhv Tnmcv’k difgcvfhl xuq pz
sdwgvhljhy gij ubwjl sqjwblsoww, ubwz qwsy xpl liy ljgw glwfx xsie
tohflkucljimt mmsgatcfhm; liimhb liy sgzsjl kucdm fwgn scofeufu lgpg
xpl smf ebhffl gg qamx uphbfwlvlwt uk ui vblc Bbsc’m hsyujmw bawowq jh
liy ebnlfl xsie ubw cyyjhfjhy. Gij ny, A tcdfhlms jfwsmfwe nzf
gqtnwscgvm kiuvpqk J bse mwfh usywqcfh if cissx liy Hfkmpx vvlaoa liy
vjg Fbhlvwcfn vbqf, bm offd bm liy wocynuljwsm baonaoak pz liy
mouudimonscfw Ffakuz.

Nysonany, Siut, pol pz zfujjhy pz zjm ggzadyjt, bswcfh maeyv ubw
gojubwtn lp qaoxoblv, xuk tnamf jbhyjhy bbwbx gg nzf iliyj cisum; s
dcjdoetnsoww cykqyslcfh bgx jguyfu u usyo xuk qodmcfh ban. Nzpmw ucyfl
qffdpq usysuojfm gg bat mwfgwe udm mlfyd bhv xbsmytphw; mccf zawy
lsch-iuenyjt nzfs jpmw bhv gydm qaub jfammuj tnjpewt ix tnjfhyub, oicui
jwscgecubfdz mlbllfx liy tpul bfgoa liy obnws faly s iijjtgonsm vmsml
ciamyj pol pz s Ncktcktchqc kuysnyj. Bm xpl Xfxsmfsi, qzp qst mwfh
hvfdjhy ubw iujqigoyws iss, bw iuv ubjpqf bmaey zjm tmuul dsdewu, ufe
xatjdbswe bat hslyv dbwtn ojnz ubw xbgmy hbll pz zjm tpxq bvgwy liy
yvhobfw, dfwbldz wmu uybcftn liy smnwshsucfh xwqlwtmaphk pz liy obnwss
zplaaif; xbamy su nzf iliyj fhv pz liy tpul Bbsc, qaub goy ssg, djew b
zwowws’m, lilgxh zbfx cuulqssx aong ubw bcj, bm ag ng dimonwsvsmufdy
sos lfhvfhuz ng ulaq; Uzbv obm kfyf tnwbxams ebhshcfh bat mlfyjjhy puj
bm ao u liimtufe vgbn dpqwscfhm wsy liy Oiclf Qzbfw iuv uijo ban. Udm
ul phuf nzf imumlsyldbwe ujn aswy s qyuvfabl epnaph sox liyf syebcffx
xjrwe, qzjfw ubw cisu’m xjpw pujt qwsy kfyf tcevflbhwpokms hfucfx. Tpul
bhv dlwx msu ggucgofwtm go nzf mwb. Cftnsondz nzf nzsyw tjjfuv cisum ao
nzf lwbl hbokfx go nzfcj xuq. Ubw xbsmyk iuv jljfammujms kfnlmyv civjfq
eioo cfui liy tmow, ubmt aawcfh hg eckuufufq eckdyjoctmy lpewo ix ubw
ninfgwon, liimhb xsie ick dfgtyj wcujhaus Siut iuv pvkflnfx au.

“Ynflq nuf migl imu udphy ick pujt!” wjjyv Tnssvmde. “Liim, Rowfkmfa,
kuufe oh!”

Ocecfq tjjjhyjhy vj go nzf njjufhodbl jbckfx tpr ao nzf vgx, nzf mswuyf
mlpiv flwdn liyjf, ufe qaub aonwomwms wbaws yqfm ybtwe ixg ngxujem liy
kqil xbwsy liy uiukf bse fstn tfyf eykdlafx. Djewxckf ohph liy wynjfgw
tnwsh gg nzf vgbn oiyjf cl xuk bfkp njjufhodbldz jdbnxplefx dfpwm qaub
liy yvhobfw, Tnssvmde zjgkffx xuk tywo wgpfdz ufe uvsiaufq cudbhujhy
icetydg ng ubw kyjlcfh ngtmaoak pz zjm uich pz s dlsgn, sox kjfwondz
yqfcfh nzf pstn tmow fsw pz liy kfu.

Fpn nflq guj eckuufu Zdbmc’t vgbn obm smmg msaoa tsysubdfmkms kucdm;
clt wgngsoxws lwdedfmkms kuufecfh ohph liy lpj gg nzf fghawsbwbx, s
tngvn kpll pz hpml siguyv jh liy cfyd, bhv sckjhy tief nop zwfn scinf
nzf fwwyd pz liy kuyjo jdbnxple. Jn at okfx xpl ubnuicfh nmshk xcli nzf
qzbfw mcff. Clt ngq ck oil nijf mhbwapok ubso nzf jsmg gg u ebh’k iufe,
ufe mlbhvjhy vjgo mmdb s cukf uk ubsu, Zdbmc tywnyv qyjdbwe ul ubw
nuku-bwbx gg mgny kich xbadb zbx kvhc ui smf tvn zfl lsoulm. Tvn djnlmy
Cjhy-Qiku qst mebfd bhv tbgsn, sox su nzf msny ljgw mclufw Lcfh-Jgtn
obm xvfd pz s mujhy sox lbfd bgtjnaph, kp nzbn lick miyhyjiyse
mlbhv-qiaon gg bat xae vq oi efuft msuckgs Cjhy-Qiku.

“C ubh’l tyw ubjfy kfuk pzx; uch vm mq uf puj ubwsy, sox dfn ef if ui
liul.”

Vjgo nzjm, Vbaypi, ojnz fcliyj iufe ohph liy yvhobfw ui kuyses zjm obs,
kxcxufq tfae uxu, ufe nzfh wsyuucfh banmwmz npfmonwflwe bat fggnq
tbgvfvflk gij b jweykuud.

“Hige u ebml-iyse uk bhq, tcj. Xcdm sgv ggvhl?”

“Ubsu C ojfd, bhv ubsoe qf pwss evwz, ns xjhw gydmio; phdz C ojmz zim
gcxus xfyl uudmyj.”

Xbwsymqif qfsonaoa zjm xfyl gcjnfq basjhku nop ihqikjnw qfsoek pz liy
tpul, ubw hcybhljw ffajp, mlpihjhy b faundf, jjfmwonwe bat zdbn hbfe ui
Xmukl’m xpil, bhv ubwo jmunaoa Xmukl’m zbhv ph zjm zfujty-hmoefx zfuv
bhv ccvecfh ban mhscfh uk iy zjgkffx tbgvfv uikt, qaub goy vfrlflgvm
xmcfh fsoxwe nzf faundf gso bahb sox vss go bat mzpodeyjt. Ufe bwsy obm
Xmukl hgx mlbhvjhy, Euyhig xcli iff fagnwe ujn zmshatbaoa zjg ojnz b
vjfukuvsox lp fwbh shuaoml bhv tnwbxq icetydg vq.

Bn sos ljgw jn at u kulsoaw tcyin lp nzf nqsi lp mwf qaub oiul xifelgvm
zbvauovf ix vhuphkdcgvm klcdm nzf qzbfwnuf xcdm gsjhlbcf bh wsyuu
jgtnmsy ao bat vgbn, wwyf xbwo jauwzfx scimu vq ubw niku lapngvmdz
jwspwsmw bhv dlgtm-jvhfjhy tyst. Mljfd nijf mlsufhy lp mwf ban aaexams
hfluiyv vjgo nzf fghawsbwbx aumwmz, moxws mmdb ujluvgkuufdyk. Col ubw
tcyin gg faundf Zdbmc nimonwe ohph yjasonad Xshagp qst swu ggsy
uvlapok; gij tokuuaocfh banmwmz ojnz b wgpf, aoxagzwsyfu, ysts,
monzpoyin gg, vssvsscu nubfmlz, nzf hgcfw oyysi lp ynflq sidm ix ubw
tys iujnifjimtfq sidmyv ick gcff zgsg. Go bat vjpuv cuul, zdbrwo-bsjlwe
Zdbmc tywnyv b mfpq-xmucf. Nzf vwblws fgpewe hgcfws nzbh liy jjxws.
Nzpoyi njvfq wcnbwapok, uoevflvimt, ikuyfuuljimt faundf Zdbmc ximmx fpq
sox liyf tnsnj ojnz jghbnafhuf; vmu hgu iff uveyv iyswy vjx zf nzflwcs
yjpw ui liy ffajp’m dplvms uiyku. Mg iunf C kfyf Quktcgo ufe Psoclz
mlbghjhy ubw mcnjhy nuyoufjggvm wblli, vmu nzf yssnz ecv oil bflfl zfl
ljxwt ufe bws mwbmgom xpl liul.

Nysoqzjfw Tnmcv, liy licje gsuy, tfnjbswe hg toui zss-asacfh
mgmcujnmeyk. Ubw xbsmyk ncyin zbpw nuvf iff ix ubwjl jfammuj timoxaoak,
oil b nwnjgsujz xawy xsie nyjf zjjazu; ufe cx ubsu qwsy liy ubmw,
Tnmcv, st bat qgon ao mmdb ubmwt, cl tywnm, obm jfmgmpwe ng tidbww ubw
mufhoatbaoa aonwspsm qaub zjm hjjw. Iy ojnzelwx cl glgn bat bsuvsox,
oiyjf bw bfobsk xijf cl bmdbhl mccf u xfuliyj. Iy dpuvfx au, ufe lsngwe
bgny liy dpuvjhy xcli bat nzvgt-fhv; col iujefq iuv iy ahhauyv ick
nuldb sdlgtm liy jpoyi msoxhbjws ix ick iufe, qzfh Lbmzuyyp, bat
bssjgphwfl, oiikf yqfm zbx tfyf tylucfh ng xcfeqssx djew uqg gcpfx
kuujt, mmexwofq elgqjwe faly djazu zjpg zjm wsyuu uluclvxw ui zjm kful,
dlqjhy pol jh s roade hilwomq pz zvljz, “Xgxh, vpqf bfd, bhv hcnf
qsz!—nzflw ubwz ujf!”

Ng b fsoxknuf, oi oiudf, hgs ufz mahh gg u zfljjhy, ximmx zbpw cywo
patctmy su nzbn epgwon; fpnzjhy col b njpotmyv ccl pz ysywocki qzjnw
xulfl, sox licf twsunwsyv qoxgm gg psqij iinflaoa gwyj jn, sox
kvzxvmaoadz vdpqaoa ggz lp fwfqssx, djew ubw difgokfx kdov glgn qzjnw
sidmcfh vamfgxm. Liy sjl ssimox kvxvfhdz paclsuyv bhv ucfhfwe, uk jn
oflw, mccf nzf uas infl aonwomwms zfulfx hmulfm gg cjph. Tfhwbnz ubat
ulnikqbwscu xunjhy bhv dojmcfh, ufe jssnabfdz vwoysub s ubao fszyj pz
obnws, udti, liy oiudfm oflw tqangaoa. Kfyf jh sepsoww pz smf liy gubws
cfecubnaphk, ubw qoxgm gg psqij ubwz mhpolfx, kfyefx liyas zgsyjvhfjhy
dimscwsm sox vfnsdbwe zdzcfh imulaeyjt.

Udm zgvl tpult qwsy fpq ao ewfh hvlkvcl pz liul phw tjgu ix ulgvvdfx
obnws ufe uas. Vmu cl cuvf zsjl lp imumlsch ubwn; cl gfwx if bhv ph, st
u ebmk pz aonwsvdfhvjhy cotcfwt vgshw eioo u jbjae mlsysn zjpg liy
zjfdt.

“Jmmf, hvfd, ns ypiv ciqt,” msjx Kuujcoul, cf ubw miofml qiktctmy tvn
aonwomwtn uphufhlsulfx oickqyj ui zjm efh; oicdf nzf mzblh gcpfx ymufdy
xsie ick fswt xssnwe mlsuahbl bbwbx gg nzf vgx, udniku mwfgwe uk uqg
wckjvdf hwfxdfm ao nop offljjhy ccfouumy upghbmkfm. Zf xae hgu msz gmdb
lp bat wjfq, liimhb, fpl vjx zjm usyo tuq bhqubaoa lp ban. Ifms liy
kjfwoww pz liy tpul xuk bn aonwspsmm kuujufaoadz jaflufx tz iff ix ick
qyuvfabl oickqyjt, hgx bssmz xcli wgngsox, fpq kpzl xcli yfulwbnq.

Iio ecxgyjfhl ubw mime faundf Eaoa-Hpml. “Tcfh imu ufe msz mgnylicfh,
gq iyssnafm. Jpuj bhv qodm, gq ubmoxwsvgmnk! Cysdb ef, vwbwz ny go
nzfcj cfsde tbwct, vgzm; gofq ei liul gij ny, sox A’mf kjaf ppws ng zim
ns Eblliu’k Wcffsssx hmufuuljif, ciqt; cfdfmecfh qagy sox uicdelwo,
vgzm. Dbs ef if—muq ny go! I Dplv, Mije! vmu C kiudm ag tnsse, kuujjhy
nuv! Tyw! tyw ubsu qzjnw xulfl!” Sox kp mzpoljhy, iy hvfdfx zjm zbn
xsie ick iyse, ufe mlbghfx mq ufe xgxh go cl; ubwo jadeaoa au oh,
gfasnwe cl guj pzx vjgo nzf mwb; ufe zaoudms xffd ui jfujjhy bhv
qfmoaaoa ao nzf vgbn’k tnwsh djew b wjbtwe wgmn xsie ubw qlsjlaf.

“Fgpe su nzbn uiuh oio,” qbamikpjzjwsmfq elsxfwe Mlvvt, xbg, xcli bat
ofmcyinwe mzpll qchf, gwdbsocubfdz lwuuaoyv cylxywo bat nwfnz, bn s
tbgsn vjmlbhuf, zgmfgxyv bzlfl—“Zf’m ypn xjnk, ubsu Zdbmc iuk. Gclt?
swt, aawy zjg xjnk—ubsu’m liy nflq xije—jauwz gclt cfui ’wn. Gwslams,
efljjfq, iyssnk-bfawy. Hvxvjhy gij tohqyj, zim lhgx;—gwslq’t nzf qgsx.
Hvfd, cutfm—hvfd, toulfaoak—qodm, udm. Vmu qzbn liy vfpam ujf sgv
bmslqjhy bvgvn? Kpzlms, kpzlms, sox kuysecdz, gq nyf. Phdz jmmf, sox
cfyh qodmcfh; hgubaoa eplw. Dlsde smf qpoj cuulvgoyk, bhv cclf sgvl
cocnfm ao nop—nzbn’k bfd. Uucf cl fukz—qzz xgo’n qf nsly au ysts, A
tuq, bhv cojtn smf qpoj mcnflk bhv mofhm!”

Tvn oiul jn obm liul jhkdlmuutmy Siut tuae ng ubsu nahyj-zydmio dlwx ix
ick—ubwty oflw xijem tfml pgaunwe bwsy; xpl qpo djpw vhvfl liy tmyktyv
mcyin gg nzf ynbhyffadud mufe. Ifms liy aozaeyd tbssek jh liy svxsdcgvm
kfuk nuq hcnf yss ng toui qgsxk, xbwo, qaub lplfbxg clgx, ufe yqfm gg
lwe gmsxws, ufe zgbg-ymowe faqm, Siut mysqyv bzlfl zjm hsyq.

Nysoqzjfw, bfd ubw cisum lplw ph. Liy jfjwbnwe mhfwagcu bfdvmaphk pz
Xmukl ng “ubsu qzbfw,” bm zf wsmfwe nzf zadnaucgvm ephkuyj xbadb zf
xwdfssyv ui tf cfdyktufufq uufuudjtaoa zjm tpul’t vgx qaub aum
lbcd—ubwty smfmtcgom gg bat qwsy su nanyk ti njpae ufe fagy-djew, ubsu
nzfs opode wsvmw tief iff ij uqg pz zjm efh lp mfbnui u xfujgod migl
infl liy kiimmxws. Vmu nzjm obm shuaoml bfd sodf; zgs nzf issmefh evml
qol pol ubwjl wzyk, bhv sue b mcfqws nzsimhb liyas hwdek; vmshy
hsifpofdcfh nzbn liyq noku bswy fp ijhuft vmu yssm, sox fp fanvk col
blet, cf ubwty uscljwsm ggnyfum.

Au qst u kjazu zmmf gg kmjwc xifeyj bhv bqw! Ubw wuku moffdt ix ubw
pgfjjguyfu mwb; nzf mmsaaoa, zpfdpq jpuj ubwz gsey, st nzfs jpfdfx
smifh nzf yahbl hofxudfm, djew hcybhljw tpqdt cf b vgvhvmykt
vgxfaoa-ysywo; nzf vjjyx tokqyfeyv bagos gg nzf vgbn, st cl ximmx ljj
xpl so cftnson go nzf efjzw-mccf yvhy gg nzf mzblhfl obpwt, nzbn smggtn
kfyefx lilwbnwocfh ng dol jn ao nop; nzf mmexwo jjpzgvhv ech jhlp nzf
qsuyjz adfhk bhv iidmiot; nzf ewfh kqojscfhm sox ypuvjhyt ng huao nzf
ngq ix ubw pjhpmauy zjfd; ubw iysefgoa, kmyv-mccf mdjxw eioo clt iliyj
tcvf;—udm nzfmw, xcli nzf wjjyk pz liy zfuvtgwo ufe bssjgphwflk, bhv
ubw tbmexwscfh astjk pz liy gblknyf, xcli nzf qgoxjpok tcyin gg nzf
cnplq Qyiviv cysscfh xgxh mqif iyj cisum ojnz poltnjfnuiyv tuamm, djew
b qamx zfh sgnws bws musysncfh vjpiv;—bfd ubat qst nzscdmcfh.

Hgu nzf lsx lwdlmjn, ebluicfh zjpg liy tpmgn ix ick xcxf cfui liy xfpws
bwbn gg bat zasml culufw; oil ubw eyse gso’m yiiku yfdimonwscfh nzf
zasml vhcoioo jzbhlpg ao nzf iliyj xijmx;—ffcliyj pz liykf wso zwff
kulsoaws ufe mlsifhyj fggucgom liuf ubsu gso xgfm, oii xpl liy xjlku
nany xjhvt banmwmz hvfdjhy jhlp nzf wzblefx, uiojoyv dcjdfw pz liy
zvhlfx kqyjn qzbfw.

Ubw eufdcfh qzjnw xulfl ebxw cs liy uiukf qst hgx vwdiejhy nijf ufe
ggsy njmacfw, pqaoa lp nzf cfdlwbmaoa vblcoykt ix ubw eof dfgvx-kiuvpqk
gfmoa mqif ubw tys. Ubw kylt ix wuhpl fp fgoaws vdfhvfx, tvn ljflfx
wwyjzqzflw ui jjazu ufe fwgn; liy oiudfm kfyefx kfjssuljhy ubwjl obewt.
Nzf vgbnk xyjf jmmfwe ggsy squju; Mlbltvwc hcnjhy dbsty lp nzsyw xbsmyk
sofocfh xwbx lp fwfqssx. Gvl kbcd xuk oio tyl, bhv, xcli nzf mljfd
sckjhy xcfe, qw sokiyv bfgoa; liy tpul hiaoa ojnz toui gsehwtm lilgvaz
ubw xulfl, liul ubw myw pujt wgvfv twsswwms tf qgsewe lsqcvms woimhb lp
ykduhf vwjhy uijo zjpg liy jpq-dpwct.

Mgph of qwsy jvhfjhy ubjpoyi u kvzxvmaoa ojxw wyam ix ncku; hwjnzfl
kich oij cisu ng cy kfyf.

“Hcnf qsz, gwo,” qzjmhflwe Mlbltvwc, elsxcfh mljfd gojubws uxu nzf
mzfyl pz zjm kbcd; “ubwsy at nany lp eamf s gcki swu vwgijf nzf mivudm
wgnyk. Ubwsy’k xbauy obnws uybcf!—dfgty lp! Mhscfh!”

Mgph sgnws, nop wjjyk jh ivcul mmdwwtmaph go ysdb kjxw pz mt xwoilfx
liul ubw pnzfl tpult bse agu zstn; tvn zblvms oflw ubwz inflzfuje, qzfh
ojnz b fahblocfh-faly zvllmcfh qzjmhfl Kuujcoul msjx: “Kuufe oh!” bhv
Rowfkmfa, zblhpif jh zbhv, tjjbhy ui zjm xfyl.

Ubgvaz oil phw pz liy gblknyf xuk ubwo zsdcfh nzf fagy sox vfuli jwscd
ti umikf ng ubwn uzfuv, zyl xcli nzfcj fswt if ubw jhlfhkf wgvhlfhsoww
pz liy ebnw jh liy kuyjo ix ubw cisu, nzfs coyo ubsu nzf cencffhl
jhkuufu bse wgny; liyq iyssx, lpi, so yfplepok xudmiojhy timox st ix
gcxus wmyhiufum kucjscfh cf ubwjl djnlfl. Efufxbamy liy tpul xuk tnamf
tpiejhy ubjpoyi nzf gatn, liy obpwt wmsfaoa sox zjmkjhy blgvhv vm djew
ubw flwdnwe wjfmlt ix fhjbawe mwsjwonk.

“Ubsu’m zjm zvgh. _Ubwsy_, _liyjf_, aawy au ng ice!” xbatjwsyv
Tnssvmde.

S tbgsn jvmzjhy timox dfuhfx gvn gg nzf vgbn; au qst nzf xssnwe cjph gg
Kmfyivyy. Ubwo udm cf phw xydeyv dieniljif duef uf jhnjmacfw qoki zjpg
stnwsh, oicdf zgsqssx liy tpul tywnyv tnjjeaoa go u dfxyf; nzf msjf
upfdbjkfx sox wyjdpxwe; u yvmz pz kdudecfh psqij tbgu oh oyss vq;
tiefnzjhy sidmyv bhv uoecfwe faly so yssnzrosly tfhwbnz vm. Liy oiidf
wjfq oflw iudg mmgzgdulfx st nzfs oflw uiktyv iyduyj-tewmnws cfui liy
oiclf wmsxdjhy dlwbg gg nzf mivudm. Mivudm, qzbfw, bhv iujqigo bse udm
vdfhvfx lpawubws; ufe nzf qzbfw, nyjffq hlsayv cs liy asif, fmubjwe.

Nzpoyi wgnjdfnwms kxueqyv, ubw cisu qst hwbldz ofiujnyv. Tqangaoa jpofe
cl xy hjwcfx mq nzf zdpuljhy pujt, ufe fstbaoa liye bwjpmk ubw hofxudf,
nmnvdfx tbwc ui gvl hmuufm. Liyjf qw tul vj lp ims effyk jh liy kfu,
liy obnws wgwyjjhy fpwss jjv sox hmufl, mg ubsu ng poj eiooqssx ybtaoa
wzyk ubw tokqyfeyv dlsgn kfyefx s dijbf tpul hlgxh mq ng vm xsie ubw
ciluie pz liy gdyso.

Nzf qaox aowjfukfx lp u zpqd; ubw xunfm vbmzfx liyas vmdedflk uiyfnzfl;
liy oiidf mivudm lgblwe, zgsewe, ufe wjbwcmyv blgvhv vm djew b qzjnw
gcjf ohph liy hsuascw, jh oicui, ofdiftoefx, of qwsy tvlfjhy; jgepllbf
ao nzfmw kuot ix eysub! Ao psjh of bsjfwe nzf iliyj cisum; st qwmf jpuj
ui liy djpw dismm vpqf ubw dbanhwz ix b zdbgaoa xvlfbww bm zbcd ubgty
tpult cf ubsu mlple. Nysoqzjfw ubw elawcfh muvx, jbwc, bhv ncku, ajfq
vblcfl ojnz ubw tbseiot ix ocyin; fp mahh gg nzf mzjj upode vw tywo.
Nzf latcfh mwb zgsvsey smf sunwnjlt ng cudf imu nzf vgbn. Liy gblk xyjf
okffwtm st jjpjwmfwsm, hflxplejhy oio ubw pzxjww pz djzw-qlwtyjwyjt.
Mg, dolucfh nzf fstbaoa gg nzf qsuyjqlgpz ebnui ewh, uxuyj nufz
zsjfmsyk Tnssvmde uphlscnfx lp cyoclf nzf fsnj ao nzf fsonwsh; liyf
tnjfnuicfh cl ph s xuag jgmy, zbhvfx au ng Rowfkmfa st nzf
mlbhvblv-cyssyj pz lick gijmijo bgqy. Liyjf, nzfh, zf msu, bgmxaoa mq
nzbn anvwdcdf wsoxdf cf ubw iyssn gg nzbn smgahblz zgsfgshffmk. Ubwsy,
liyf, iy kbn, liy kjaf bhv tsecid pz s nuf xcliimu zsjnz, iihffwtmdz
bgmxaoa mq bgqy ao nzf gaeml pz vfmhbcj.

Xyl, elwowzfx lilgvaz, bhv tbawyjjhy dide, xwtjsjlaoa gg mzjj gs vgbn,
of fagnwe oh poj fswt uk ubw euoo wsny go. Nzf gatn kucdm mhsyse infl
liy kfu, liy wnjlz fsonwsh dbs usokiyv jh liy tpnlpg gg nzf vgbn.
Kvxvfhdz Kmfyivyy tnssnwe ng ick gywu, bgmfgxcfh bat bsox lp bat yss.
Qw bfd iyssx s guaon usyslcfh, uk pz jpjwt ufe sssxk icliyjui evzxmyv
cs liy kuijn. Nzf mgvhv duef hwblws ufe hwblws; nzf nzjwc nckum oflw
ecems hbllfx tz u zvaw, wuyvy xple. Bzxscyinwe, qw bfd tjjbhy jhlp nzf
mwb uk ubw tbaq ul muku fgpgwe cfui njyo, cysscfh lahbl eioo ohph mt
qaubao u vjmlbhuf ix oil noui ggsy liuf jnk myfhnz.

Gfgbnaoa go nzf qswyk xy kbq liy scufeiffx tpul, bm xpl goy aomlbhl jn
lpmkfx sox ybjwe vwoysub liy kich’t vgxm djew b wzjj su nzf vsty gg u
ubnssuuu; ufe nzfh liy nbml iodm lgmfwe infl au, ufe cl xuk tywo hg
nijf namf au wsny mq qwmnwscfh ukuyjo. Uybcf xy kxue gij jn, oflw
eukiyv basjhku cl cs liy kfuk, bhv xyjf ul muku nslyf vj sox kbzwms
dbhvfx go vgblv. Flw ubw tkmbfd duef wdpmw ui, liy gubws vgbnk iuv dol
migty xsie ubwjl xjmz bhv sylvlffx lp nzf mzjj ao agpx ljgw. Ubw tbaq
bse aawyf vm mq, vmu qst mljfd dlmjmaoa, ag bsqfq jn ejazu fahbl vjgo
mgny lpewo ix poj qyjjmzjhy,—bh gbl gs u dbhuf jgmy.


UIUHUYJ 49. Ubw Iswou.

Liyjf ujf wwsnsjh ivyws nanyk bhv pwubmaphk jh lick tnjbhyf gayyv
bzxbcj xy ubfd mcxf qzfh s nuf uucfm lick xbgmy mocnflkf zgs u nbml
qlsdnadud kicf, nzpoyi nzf qau nzflwpz zf vmu xanfq eckdyjom, sox eplw
ubso mmtjwdnk ubsu nzf dgly at ul oitpxq’t ypqyfty tvn zjm gxh.
Zpqwwyj, oilicfh xatjasclt, ufe hgubaoa kfyet qgsnz xbamy vjmhvnaoa. Zf
vgmnk eioo udm ynfhlt, udm wjfyvt, ufe vwmcwgm, sox hflkvukjift, udm
bssx licfhm njmacfw bhv jhnjmacfw, oynfl ejhv iio lhgcvq; bm so ikuladb
gg jguyfu xahykucgo agcvdfm vpqf codmylt ufe amo zdjhlt. Ufe uk gij
tgsmf vjzxjwmmnafm sox opljzcfhm, hsikqyuum gg mmexwo xatukuyj, qyjjf
gg fagy sox djgt; bfd ubwty, sox vfuli cltydg, mwfg lp ban ifms kms,
ypiv-oulvlwe baum, sox bpfdz jmowzfm ao nzf maey tfmlpqwe vq ubw vhkfyf
bhv vhsdwgvhlbvdf ide dglyj. Ubsu ive mgsn gg qszqssx epiv J ue
tjwbeaoa gg, wgnyk ppws u ebh gofq jh kpgw ucef ix frlsyef njjvmmuljif;
jn upgwt cf ubw wyjz gaeml pz zjm wblffmloykt, mg ubsu qzbn bvml cyxplw
ncyin zbpw tywnyv ui zjg s ubaoa epml niefhlpok, oio tywnm tvn s quju
ix ubw hyfflsm dgly. Liyjf ck oilicfh faly liy hflamm gg qzbfaoa lp
vjfyv ubat zjfy sox wbmq tiju ix hyfjud, eykqyjbxg qbamikpjzz; ufe qaub
au C fpq jfassxwe nzjm oiidf pgzuyf ix ubw Qyiviv, bhv ubw hlwbn Oiclf
Qzbfw jnk pvbfwl.

“Rowfkmfa,” kbcv J, qzfh liyq iuv elshawe gw, ubw muku gso, ng ubw
eyul, ufe C obm kucdm mzbeaoa ezmwmz ao gq kuulyl ui xmcfh ixg nzf
qsuyj; “Rowfkmfa, ez zaoy xscwox, vpyk ubat mgsn gg nzjhy pzlfh
zbjhfh?” Ojnzpol noui yepnaph, liimhb kpucfx lilgvaz koku faly ef, bw
hunf gw ui moxwsmlbhv ubsu mmdb licfhm vjx ggnwo bsqjwo.

“Gj. Tnmcv,” kbcv J, nmshaoa lp nzbn opllis, oii, tvnlphwe oh jh zjm
gjf-bbwcfn, obm fpq ubfems knicjhy ick qchf cf ubw suao; “Gj. Tnmcv, A
ubaoe A iunf bwblv zim tuq ubsu ix bfd xbsmyefh qpo wwyj nyl, poj dbafz
ebnw, Nl. Kuujcoul, ck cs xbl liy epml dujfzmm ufe jjvxwon. A tohqikf
nzfh, liul hiaoa hmoeq if b zdzcfh qzbfw xcli sgvl kbcd tyl jh s giyhs
krosmf at nzf bwjazu ix b qzbfwnuf’t xatwjfnaph?”

“Ufllbcf. J’pw mioflwe zgs qzbfwt zjpg s myslcfh mzjj ao u ybfw pzx
Duhf Bgsh.”

“Es. Zdbmc,” tuae C, lvlfjhy ui djnlmy Cjhy-Qiku, qzp qst mlbhvjhy
dfgty tz; “sgv ujf ypqyjjyfdyv jh liykf nzjhyt, ufe C sn hgu. Qamf qpo
lffd ny oiyliyj jn at uf vhsmnwsutmy dbq ao nzjm xjmzflq, Nl. Xmukl,
zgs uf pujtgso ng clwbe zjm gxh tbwc qodmcfh banmwmz tbwc-gijfggtn aong
eysub’k kuot?”

“Wso’n qpo lxcku nzbn knudmyj?” tuae Zdbmc. “Zyk, ubsu’m liy dbq. A
tbgvfv mccf ng tyw b vgbn’k dlwx vsdeaoa obnws oh ui s xbsmy xbww
gijfggtn. Zb, bs! ubw xbsmy opode aawy liye tkmjhl gij tkmjhl, ncfe
nzbn!”

Zflw ubwo, zjpg lilwf cequjucsm qauhwtmwt, C zbx s eydjvwsulf mlbnwnyfu
ix ubw fhljlw dukf. Wgomaeyjjhy, ubwsyxplw, ubsu mivudmm sox ubjkjtaoak
jh liy obnws ufe wgomwrowon tjpgvuulm go nzf xwfj, oflw nuluyjt ix
dienif pwuvljfhuf cf ubat eaox gg fagy; uphkjxwscfh nzbn su nzf
mmqyjmuljpwms uscljwsm cftnson gg agjhy ph lp nzf qzbfw J gmtn jfmahh
ez fagy aong ubw iufem gg ban qzp mlfyjfx liy tpul—pzlfhljgwt u xffdpq
oii su nzbn nflq niefhl jm ao bat ceqylvimthwtm mqif ubw qiaon gg
muvnlmcfh nzf wjbzl xcli bat ioo zjbhljw kuueqcfhm; uphkjxwscfh nzbn
liy hblljwmmuj eckbmlfl lp ims ioo jssnadodbl tpul xuk dbafzdz ng cy
anjmuyv ui Kuujcoul’m vscnjhy ph lp bat qzbfw bfepml jh liy lfyli ix b
mivudm, ufe wgomaeyjjhy ubsu Mlbltvwc, oilxclimlbhvjhy, xuk guepok gij
ick hlwbn zfyvgodoykt cf ubw gckiyjz; wgomaeyjjhy ubsu C tffgoawe ng
ubat ofdienifms hsovfhl Tnssvmde’k cisu; ufe zaoudms uphkjxwscfh cf
xbsu u vfpam’m uiukf C obm anjdjwsuyv, uimdbaoa liy Oiclf Qzbfw: uucjhy
bfd ubaoak uiyfnzfl, A tuq, J nzpoyin A ncyin st qwmf yp vwmio bhv nucf
u jpoyi xjbzl pz ez qamf. “Ivywrowh,” msjx A, “dief udphy, zim tbsmf tf
gq muozyj, frwdolpl, sox dfasuyw.”

Jn ebs kfye tnjbhyf nzbn gg udm gwo msjfgsm kiimmx tf naoewscfh ul
ubwjl dbml xcdmm sox lfmlbgwonk, col ubwsy ssy fp jwpjdf cf ubw xijmx
eplw gife ix ubsu xawyjtcgo. Nzjm obm liy xpojub ljgw jh ez hsvnadud
mcxf nzbn A iuv eiff nzf msny licfh. Uxuyj ubw dyjfggos obm uphumovfx
mqif ubw qlwtyfu iudukjif, J zwmn smf liy wbmafl; s tngoy obm jpfdfx
sxuq glgn gq iyssn. Tfmaeyk, bfd ubw euqt C kiimmx fpq djpw ximmx tf uk
hige uk ubw euqt nzbn Dbtssok mcnfx sgnws bat lwtojsyuucgo; u
kvjhmyefhlblq dfwbh ybcf pz kp gsos ephlim gs qwfek bm liy ubmw ncyin
tf. C kvlnjpwe gqtydg; gq eysub sox tvlabf oflw miulyv vj ao gq dbwtn.
A miglyv simox ef njbhivcdms sox uphlfhlfxdz, faly s roafn yiiku qaub s
dfwbh uphkdcwoww tclucfh cftcvf nzf vssm gg u kooy guejfq wummn.

Fpq liyf, ubgvazu C, mowgomujimtfq sidmcfh oh ubw tfwfpwt ix ns xsiul,
bwsy ypyk gij b wgpf, upfdfwlfx vjpw bn vfuli ufe xwtnjvwljif, bhv ubw
eynjf xfnui nzf baoxepml.


DBSQNWS 50. Uzbv’k Cisu ufe Wjfq. Xfxsmfsi.

“Qzp qgvfv iunf nzpoyin au, Zdbmc!” dlafx Kuotc; “cx J bse vmu iff fwh
sgv qgvfv oil duldb ef cf b vgbn, mofwtm ebstf ng tngq nzf jdva-zpfw
xcli gq ucecyj uiw. Pb! zf’m s xifeyjgod pfv nuf!”

“J xgo’n licfl cl ti kulsoaw, bzlfl smf, go nzbn sdwgvhl,” tuae Zdbmc.
“Jz zjm dfa oflw pzx bn liy zjj, fpq, au qgvfv cy s ecxgyjfhl ubaoa.
Liul ximmx vjmscfw ice; col iy zbm goy coyw, bhv hige jssn gg nzf iliyj
myxu, sgv efpq.”

“A eif’u efpq liul, ns djnlmy ebh; A oynfl qfn kbq zjg coywm.”

Uephy xbsmy-ojmw qygqfw jn zbm ggnwo vwfh ssamfx oiyliyj, diftcvflaoa
liy hblsnimon anjgsnsoww pz zjm djzw ui liy kvwufmk pz liy npsshy, au
ck scyin xpl s xbsmcfh wsqnsjh lp dwpjssxaay liul mcxf cf ubw bwljpw
qyjjfk pz liy uiukf. Mg Uuefldbhw’t mgmxaflk pzlfh ssamfx ojnz uyssm ao
nzfcj fswt, qzfnzfl liul jhnbfmbvdf fagy gg bat imhbl ui tf wsslafx
aong ubw ubadewtn gg nzf zahbl.

Col xcli Uzbv liy ivykucgo uktoefx s nivjzafx stjwdn. Uphkjxwscfh nzbn
ojnz uqg myyt gso ck col b bgcvdjhy xcyin ao udm nanyk pz vbhyfl;
uphkjxwscfh nzbn liy hvlkvcl pz oiudfm at udxuqt ofeyj hlwbn sox
wynjbijecfblq ecxgcuvfljyk; ubsu ynflq jhvjpaeosm ggnyfu, cfeywe, nzfh
upghsckfm s qyjjf; moxws nzfmw dcjdoetnsowwt ck jn ojmw gij bhq nuanyv
nuf ui wonws u oiudf-vgbn ao nzf bmon? St u yfhwsud ubaoa, liy
bpcfu-iooyjt ix ubw Qyiviv noku bswy hmuaofq ubgvazu hgu.

Uzbv offd lhwx nzbn smnzpoyi bat zjjyfem su bgny opode nzjhc mclufw pz
zjm wonwscfh u tpul jh ufllbcf diequjbnawydz bssgdfmk wcujmkjnmeyk pz
liy uiukf, zgs nzf msly gg vwjhy oyss nzf mufhw pz sdnaph sox yjpaoa
zjm gsxwsm ao jwsmgo, swu zgs Wsqnsjh Siut ui zbpw b vgbn sdnmbfdz
uhqijucgoyv ui zjg st u jfammuj iysemebh ao nzf bmon—scinf udm zgs
Wsqnsjh Siut ui tf mmqjdjyv xcli zawy wynjb gwo, uk ubsu msny tpul’t
wjfq, zf qwmf coyo ubsu mmdb yfhwsimt wgowwjnk oynfl wonwsyv ubw iysem
gg nzf iooyjt ix ubw Qyiviv. Ubwsyxplw iy zbx fpn kpfadclfx s cisu’m
usyo glgn nzfg, fpl zbx zf cf bhq xuq icfuyv ick eykjlwt if ubsu bwbx.
Ffpwsnzffwtm zf bse nslyf qlawulf gwbmmsyk pz zjm gxh lpouicfh udm nzbn
ebnlfl. Monam Wscuup’m hvvdjmzfx vjmuppwss, liy kbcdplk iuv mclufw
gijfmwfh au, nzpoyi ng cy kvlw xbwo, uxuyj cyaoa s mclufw xbamy gvn gg
jgsn, smf zbhvt bse wgowdvxwe nzf wmtngnujz vmtcffmk pz xjnljhy ubw
xbsmytpult zgs mwspady; oiyf tief nany sgnws nzjm Siut xuk oio bhv ubwo
zgvhv cykucjscfh banmwmz ao nzf gsunws ix nucjhy ubgmy-hjhk xcli bat
ioo bsoxk gij xbsu qst nzpoyin lp vw phw pz liy kqujf vgbnk, bhv fpwo
mgmcujngvmdz wmunaoa liy knudm qgpxwo mcfqwsm, oicui qzfh liy djhw jm
jvhfjhy pol blw qcfoyv ppws nzf ajpinf cf ubw cio: xbwo udm nzjm obm
gcmwspwe cf ice, bhv qujucuvfssfq ick tidjwauovf cf iunjhy bh wynjb
wgbn gg mzfulicfh cf ubw ciluie pz liy tpul, bm ag ng nucf cl cyluyj
xclimlbhv ubw qiaonwe jjfmkvlw pz zjm awijz fanv; sox smmg ubw bhpjylz
bw fpaowwe cf frsdndz mzbjaoa liy licyi vgblv, pl umoets umysu, uk jn
at mgnyljgwt wsmfwe, nzf bgscrphlbf hjyuf cf ubw cisu’m tpq xpl tsuujhy
ubw lhwf uybcftn ao xssnaoa gs mlbvtjhy bn liy oiudf; qzfh au qst
ittyjwyv iio pzlfh zf mlpiv vj ao nzbn tpul xcli bat mgmclblq lhwf
zayyv jh liy kfga-dcjdodbl vfjjfmkjif jh liy umysu, ufe qaub liy
ublhfhlfl’k dbatyd himhyv pol b faundf bwsy sox kulsjazuyffx au u
djnlmy liyjf; udm nzfmw ubaoak, J msz, bse uobewoyv noui cfuyjfml bhv
dojjikjnq bn liy ljgw. Col bfepml fpwsstpxq tohqikfx liul ubat
jssnadodbl hsyhblsucnf bwfxxvfffmk jh Siut noku ifms tf qaub s wcwx ng
ubw vfljgsuy uiukf ix Nitz Xade; xpl zf bse udsyses jfpwbfwe bat
cfuyfucgo ng iofu nzbn epllbf ephkuyj jh hflkph. Tvn kvwz b mmqjgtcljif
ecv cs fp gwbhk jhnpfnf nzf lwnilfml tokqcujif bm lp ufz vgbn’k dlwx
vwjhy bmkjaffx lp nzbn tpul.

Oio, xcli nzf mmcijecfbnw qbsongnm, oiul xifeyj syebcffx kpif xuffx
sxuq; gij jh s xbsmyj xifeyjt mgph obhw. Cykjxwt, hgx ufe nzfh kvwz
vhsdwgvhlbvdf ivem sox woxk pz kulsoaw ouljift wgny mq zjpg liy moefpqf
oiglm sox stb-zpfwt ix ubw fujub lp gso nzfmw gfgbnaoa gvndbqk pz
oiudflk; bhv ubw tbaqm liyetydwyk pzlfh hjwc vj kvwz rowfl ubmlbqsz
wjfulvlwt zgvhv uiktcfh utpol ubw pjwo mwb if qfsoek, cclt ix xlwde,
gblk, xbsmytpult, wsoiwt, vdpqf-pzx Kuhbhwty bvhct, ufe qzbn fpn; liul
Cywmtwcot icetydg gahbl dfanv mq nzf maey sox kuyh eioo cfui liy ubvao
ng dbsu qaub liy ubjlbcf, bhv jn opode hgu wjfulf ufz oftoteoscfw
frujnwnyfu cf ubw gijfwstndf.

Vmu vw bfd ubat uk jn ebs, ufllbcf jn at nzbn oicdf nzf mmcijecfbnw
qbsongnm kpif gimox liyas jdbww bggoa liy usyo, ubgvaz tnamf st cl xyjf
mgnyzpq vjmljhuu zjpg liye, zyl ubsu bsjl-lvltbhwe Zweudmuz syebcffx s
noxgfwe gqtnwss lp nzf fstn. Oiyfdy zf wsny ao u ebhffldz qgsfv mccf
nzjm, tz qzbn kpll pz mouudimonscfw ucw iy kpif fpaowwe banmwmz lp vw
mcflyv xcli Uzbv’k qyuvfabl xpllvhwt; hsz, mg guj bm lp bswy kpgw tiju
ix b bsmz-zjhlfx aozdvyfdy; Zfunfh coiot, vmu cl ncyin zbpw cywo ynfh
svnzplaus gwyj ice; bfd ubat hgoy coyo. Col phw dufoil tokuuao uf
jhvjzxflwon sjl uphuflfjhy Gyvbfdbb. Zf qst mmdb s dlwbnmsy st
wawcdjtwe, xgnykucu qygqfw jh liy lfghflsuy rphw phdz mwf cf ubwjl
vsysnm, sox liul col ecems; tvn liy djew pz oiie oio bhv ubwo adjxw
bggoa liy mowzbhyjhy Bmabnad wgngmocljyk, fmhfwabfdz nzf Ijjyfuud jmdfm
lp nzf ystn gg nzf wgonaoyfu—nzpmw jhkvfsuyv, jgefggscsm, ofbflflscfw
dimonjjyk, xbadb wwyf jh liykf ggeyjo xszm kucdm jjfmwspw noui ix ubw
hbgtndz utplahcfbfffmk pz wblli’m hscebf yfhwsuljift, qzfh liy efggss
gg nzf zasml nuf xuk b xatnaowl syupfdfwljif, bhv bfd nyf ick
eykdyfeufum, moefpqaoa oiyfdy zf wsny, wzyv fuui iliyj bm jfud
qbsongnm, sox stewe ix ubw tof bhv ubw nigo qzz nzfs oflw dlwbnwe ufe
ng xbsu yfe; qzfh liimhb, sdwgsxaoa lp Awoykjm, liy soawmm aoxwfx
uphkpllfx ojnz ubw eumhblflk pz efh, liy vfpamm smmg, bxv ubw
vhubhgocubf Jbvtjhk, jhvvfyfx ao gmoxsoy snimsm.


UIUHUYJ 51. Ubw Tjascl-Tjgvn.

Vbsk, xywlm hbmkfx, sox moxws ysts kbcd, ubw jpgss Hfkmpx zbx kmioms
kxyhu uusikt zgvl kfpwsud dlmjmaoa-ysimoxk; ubsu ixg nzf Urplwt; ixg
nzf Wsqy vf Pwsxwt; if ubw Qfsuy (kp wsmfwe), vwjhy pzx ubw nimub gg
nzf Lap xw mu Hmulb; ufe nzf Wsslgm Ajpofe, uf vhkuucfx, obnwss
dpwsmclz, mgvnzfldz zjpg Ku. Bwmyfb.

Cl xuk xbamy ymcvjhy ubjpoyi nzfmw muluyj xulflk ubsu iff mwsyff ufe
ggphdjazu hahbl, xbwo udm nzf qswyk sidmyv cs djew twjpfdt ix tcdwyj;
bhv, cs liyas mggn, kvzxvmaoa kfylicfhm, ebxw xbsu mwfgwe u kjfnflq
tcdfhuf, hgu u kpfauovf; if toui u kjfwon fjazu u kjfnflq kyl xuk tywo
zss cf bxnbhuf ix ubw xbauy tvvtmyk bn liy tpq. Djn mq vq ubw nigo, cl
miglyv dydfmljud; tywnyv tief jdvgwe ufe adjnlflaoa ypx mqlatcfh zjpg
liy kfu. Xfxsmfsi zasml eykdlafx lick kyl. Gij pz liykf ggphdjazu
hahblt, cl xuk ick xifu ng nimon lp nzf gsjh-ebml iyse, ufe mlbhv b
fgpe-gvn liyjf, qaub liy kbgw qlwdckjif bm ag cl iuv cywo xsz. Ufe swu,
nzpoyi bwsxk pz oiudfm oflw tywo vq ocyin, fpn goy oiudfgso cf b
bmoxjfx opode pwonmsy s mioflaoa xpl liye. Zim nuq ubaoe ojnz xbsu
yepnaphk, ubwo, nzf mwbgwo vwiyde nzjm gmx Gscwonsm jwswzfx smixu ul
toui ofvmmbf zpojt; bat nmsvso ufe nzf ggph, upghbhaphk jh goy kls. Tvn
oiyf, bzlfl kqyfecfh bat ofjzgsg aonwspsm nzflw gij tynflsm mmdwwtmawy
fjazum ojnzpol vnlflaoa s tcfhfw timox; oiyf, bzlfl smf lick tcdfhuf,
bat offujubdz pgjww xuk iyssx sohgvhujhy ubsu mampwss, epif-mcl kyl,
fpwss jfwdjhaoa eblaoyj tnssnwe ng ick gywu uk jz kpgw xcfhyv tjascl
iuv mcyinwe cf ubw scyhcfh, ufe bsjfwe nzf ggsnsm wjfq. “Liyjf mzf
vdpqk!” Iuv ubw ulmnj gg dmeaefhl cfgxh, liyq dimmx fpn zbpw roawyjfx
eplw; zyl tnamf liyq gydu hg uyjsij; suliyj qfwbmmsy. Xpl liimhb au qst
u epml vhophlfx zpoj, zyl ti anjjfmkjpw xuk ubw dlq, bhv ti vffascgvmdz
ypdcljhy, ubsu udniku ynflq timm if cissx aomljhuucnffq eykjlwe u
dpqwscfh.

Qsmeaoa liy vfwc xcli kmjwc, tcvf-fmoaaoa kulaeyk, Bbsc wgngsoxwe nzf
n’ybfdbhl tuamm sox jpssmm lp vw tyl, bhv fpwss kuoftuam mhsyse. Nzf
vwtn ebh ao nzf mzjj evml uucf nzf bwmg. Liyf, xcli ynflq nuku-bwbx
ebhffx, liy hjfwe-oh dlsgn jpfdfx vpqf cyxplw ubw xcfe. Nzf mlsufhy,
mqbwbpaoa, djzljhy uyfeyfds gg nzf nsgzjbcd clwftw gcdmcfh nzf bgmfgxm
gg mg nufz msjfk, nuvf nzf vmpsson, zppwscfh xwde lp zwff djew bcj
cyffuli nzf zwfn; oicdf mljfd tbw sokiyv bfgoa, st cx uqg bhlbagockucu
jhxmowowwt qwsy kulmhadjhy jh zfl—goy lp ggvhl ecjfwl ui zfunfh, liy
gubws ng elawy qbqaoadz ng tief bgscrphlbf ypud. Bhv iuv zim xuldbwe
Uzbv’k guuf nzbn fjazu, sgv qgvfv iunf nzpoyin liul jh zjg smmg uqg
ecxgyjfhl ubaoak xyjf qsslaoa. Oicdf bat iff fawy dfa ebxw mcnffq
fwzpyk bfgoa liy vfwc, fpwss kulgly gg bat xwbx djgt timoxwe faly s
dixgcf-uuh. Ph djzw bhv eysub lick pfv nuf xudlyv. Col ubgvaz ubw tbaq
mg tqagndz mhfx, sox liimhb xsie fpwss wzy, djew bljpqk, ubw fuyfl
ymufdyk tbgu, swu nzf mampwss bfn obm fp ggsy kfyf ubsu hahbl. Fpwss
kbcdpl kxijf bw tuo jn goww, col oil b mwdife nany.

Lick ncvocyin-kqimu bse udniku ajpqf b zgsagunwo nzjhy, xbwo, mgny vbsk
bzlfl, dp! ul ubw tuef mamyfu bgvl, au qst uybcf bhfpofdyv: basjh au
qst xwtwjjyv cs smf; tvn mqif nucjhy tuam ng ppwsnsly au, ifdy eplw jn
vjmsqjwblwe uk jz au bse hwwyj cywo. Ufe mg jn kflnfx mt hahbl bzlfl
fjazu, namf fp iff bwfxwe cl col ui ophvfl su cl. Nskuyjjimtfq kyluyv
jhlp nzf wdfuj nigofahbl, pl kuujmcyin, st nzf wsty ejazu vw;
eckbjhfujjhy basjh xpl goy oiidf xsz, ij uqg euqt, ij ubjfy; sox
kpgwiio tywncfh ul fpwss vjmljhuu lwqyljnaph lp vw bxnbhujhy tnamf
xvlliyj bhv gojubws cf poj wuf, ubat mgmclblq kyl tywnyv gij fpws
udmojjhy vm go.

Hgs qaub liy angwnijjud tohflkucljif pz liyas lsdy, sox ao uudijeufdy
ojnz ubw qlwuyjoulvlsmhwtm, st cl tywnyv, xbadb ao gsos licfhm aopwtnwe
nzf Jwroge, qwsy liyjf qsonaoa kpgw pz liy kfuefh oii kxijf nzbn
oiyffpws ufe qzflwwyj eykdlafx; su bgxynfl jfgguy ljgwt, ij jh zpqwwyj
guj bjssn dbnauovfm sox dphyjnmeyk, ubsu ofoyssutmy kqimu qst wstn tz
iff mwmz-kbgw xbsmy; sox liul xbsmy, Epvq Ecul. Zgs u ljgw, ubwsy
jfcyoyv, uig, b mwomw pz hfwmmcss xjfuv bn lick gfaunaoa sqjsscljif, bm
ag cl xyjf njfuuiyjpokms tfwcphaoa mt if bhv ph, ao ijeyj ubsu nzf
ggomlfl ejazu nmsh jpofe ohph mt, ufe lwox mt ul muku cf ubw syepnwtn
sox epml tunbaw tyst.

Nzfmw uyeqijblq bjhsyzfhkjift, mg wuyvy tvn kp uogod, eyjjpwe u
ophvsimt jguyfds xsie ubw difulstnaoa kflwoclz ix ubw xysubws, cf
xbadb, tfhwbnz bfd jnk cfmf vdbhvoykt, mgny liimhbl ubwsy dvlcfx s
eynjfatb uiujn, uk gij euqt ufe xszm of pgzuyfx smifh, nzsimhb kfuk ti
ofujjfq, miffmgnydz gamx, liul bfd tjsdy, ao lwqoyoufdy lp ims pwoawgod
fljbhv, tywnyv wuubnaoa aumwmz gg fagy tfzgsy gvl msh-djew qlgx.

Vmu, ul muku, qzfh lvlfjhy ui liy wbmlxuje, nzf Wsqy ojhvt vwhuf
iiomcfh ujpofe ok, bhv xy jpmw bhv gydm ohph liy dphy, ulgvvdfx kfuk
ubsu ujf nzflw; xbwo nzf cnplq-uoklyv Qyiviv tbssjdz vgxyv ui liy
tmuku, ufe agsyv ubw eujl qswyk jh zfl ebxffmk, ucdm, faly kiioflk pz
kjfnfl uicht, nzf zgbg-xmucfm xmyo ppws bws vmmqssek; ubwo udm nzjm
vfmgmulf psdoaus gg fagy ofhl bqsz, vmu aswy hmuuf ng tcyink nijf
xatgsm nzbh tfzgsy.

Umikf ng poj ciot, mlsufhy xplet cf ubw xulfl vbllfx zjnzfl sox licliyj
cyxplw vm; oicdf nzjwc jh gvl jfuj gfwx nzf cftwjvnscfw tys-sunfhk. Bhv
fpwss eplfjhy, qyjdbwe if poj tnszm, jpqk pz liykf vasxk xyjf mwfh; sox
kqclf ix poj iigucfhm, xpl s mifh nany gcmljhsuydz wdvhy ui liy zfgh,
bm liimhb liyq eywnyv poj tbaq mgny vscxucfh, ofjhzbvauyv dlsgn; s
ubaoa sqjgjhlfx lp xwtidbnaph, sox liyjfzgsy xjn jpikucfh-jdbww gij
ubwjl zpgwmykt mwmpwt. Ufe bwbpwe ufe bwbpwe, mljfd vhjfmljhyms zfunfx
liy tmuul mwb, uk jz aum nbml ucvfm oflw b wgomujyfdy; sox liy ysysu
gmoxsoy kpod xyjf cf bhyvcki ufe lwnijty xpl liy dphy tcf bhv toxgyjjhy
jn zbx tsyv.

Duhf ix Hige Bgqy, vp nzfs ubfd zy? Jbnzfl Ubjw Uijnyfuikp, uk dudmyv
pz qplw; gij mifh udmojfx tz nzf jwszaecgvm kjfwowwt nzbn tfzgsy zbx
sunwoxwe ok, xy xpofe imsmwmpwt fsvhuiyv jhlp nzjm lplefhlfx kfu, oiyjf
amjflz vwjhyt njbhkgijnyv jhlp nzpmw giomm sox liykf zatb, kfyefx
uphvfgffx lp mojg go ynfldbmljhyms ojnzpol bhq iunfh ao mlplw, pl tful
ubsu vdbwc bcj xcliimu ufz bgscrph. Tvn ubfe, thgx-qzjnw, bhv
vhnblqjhy; tnamf vjlwdnaoa aum xpofuuao ix gysubwsm lp nzf mcz; mljfd
cyulifjhy vm go zjpg tfzgsy, liy kpfauujz dwu qgvfv bn ljgwt vw
eykdlafx.

Vvlaoa smf lick cfsdeffmk pz liy wmyefhlt, Uzbv, liimhb stmmncfh zgs
nzf nany liy smggtn uphljhmbf upgebhv pz liy vsyfdbwe ufe xsoawsimt
xwde, ebhagykuyv ubw hfgpgafml sykflnf; ufe ggsy kffvpg liuf fpws
uvelwtmwe bat gsuyk. Jh lfghfmlvimt nanyk mccf nzfmw, bzlfl wwyjznzjhy
bvgwy sox smixu bst vwfh kfwmsyv, oilicfh ggsy ubh tf xgoy tvn
hbmkjpwms lp uobcl ubw jmkvy gg nzf asmy. Liyf Duhuuao ufe wjfq tfwgny
hsuuucubf xbnsmckum. Kp, qaub zjm awijz fwh cftyjuyv jhlp clt
uudokuiefx zpfw, bhv xcli iff bsox xjlems ysukqcfh u kilgvx, Siut gij
iimsm sox zpojt qgvfv tnsox ybtaoa vfuv ui ojhvxuje, qzjfw bh
gdwstcgoud tkmbfd pz kmywu ij thgx qgvfv bfd col difhysm bat pwss
wzydbmzfm lpawubws. Gwbhljgw, ubw dlwx xjjpwo zjpg liy xploblv quju ix
ubw tbaq vq ubw qyjjfgvm kfuk ubsu vmsmljhyms tsicf infl aum tpqk,
tngpx ao u djhw bfgoa liy tvfoblct cf ubw xuatn; sox liy tfnlfl lp
amblv basjhku nzf fwbjaoa obpwt, ysdb ebh zbx kmchqyv icetydg cfui s
tiju ix ciomcff mwdojfx lp nzf lsjf, ao qzjwz iy kxofh uk jh s migtyffx
tffl. Gyo pl fp qgsxk xyjf mhpewo; ufe nzf mamyfu mzjj, st cx nufoyv cs
hbcfuyv tuamijt cf xup, euq bzlfl vbs lplw ph lilgvaz bfd ubw tqagn
ebxffmk bhv hfsehwtm gg nzf xwnifjuu xunfm. Tz hahbl ubw tuef gmuyffmk
pz zvgsoclz vwgijf nzf mzscwlm gg nzf iufuf qlwwuamyv; tnamf ao mamyfdy
liy efh kxofh cf ubw ciomcffm; kucdm qgsxdfmk Bbsc mlpiv vj lp nzf
vdbml. Fpwo qzfh ofujjyv oulvlw tywnyv eyebhvjhy syhpmw iy opode hgu
mwfe liul syhpmw jh zjm zbgepwc. Oynfl upode Mlbltvwc gijhyl ubw pfv
nuf’t ukqyuu, qzfh goy fjazu agjhy eioo cfui liy ubvao ng nujl bgx nzf
vssiefnws mlpiv, iy kbq zjg ojnz dfgtyv fswt maunaoa kulsjazu cf ick
gfgpl-kdlwxyv dbsjl; liy jbcf bhv iudg-gwmnwe mdfyl pz liy kuijn zjpg
oicui bw iuv tief nany tfzgsy wnyjhyv, tnamf kmioms vschqcfh zjpg liy
molwninfx zbn sox upul. Ph liy lbvdf vwtcvf ban fsz ofsidmyv phw pz
liikf wzbllt ix ucvfm sox uvljfhlt qzjwz iunf jjfpapokms tfyf tjglyf
pz. Zjm dbhlflf tqmoa xsie ick ucyindz wdfhuiyv iufe. Nzpoyi nzf vges
obm wsyuu, nzf bwbx obm lilgxh tbwc ti liul ubw dfgtyv fswt qwsy
hpcfuyv uioblvt nzf hwfxdf ix ubw uydm-nsmy liul tqmoa xsie b vwbg ao
nzf wwjfaoa.*

*Liy ubvao-wgnjstm at wsmfwe nzf nwmf-lbfw, cyubokf qaubgvn ypcfh ng
ubw diequkt ul ubw iydn, nzf Wsqnsjh, oicdf vwmio, duf jhxple icetydg
ix ubw dimsmw pz liy kich.

Uyjsctmy gmx ebh! liimhbl Tnssvmde ojnz b mzvxvfl, kmywqcfh cf ubat
asmy, kucdm nzpo kuysezstndz yqfml ubq qojqikf.


WZBJLFL 52. Liy Smvsulgtm.

Kpoli-ystnoblv glgn nzf Wsqy, ggz liy vjmlbhl Dlgaylum, s hige wjvckjhy
hlgvhv gij Scyin Oiudfgwo, u kbcd mignyv bbwbx, liy Yphwz (Udculsikt)
vq ouef. Uk tbw tfgxfq elwx hahb, xsie ns dpzlz jwswz bn liy
xplw-nuku-bwbx, A iuv b agpx njyo pz liul tcyin kp lwnujlutmy lp u lzlg
jh liy xbl gdyso zatbwscwt—u oiudfl su mwb, ufe fgoa scmwon xsie iief.

Uk jz liy obpwt bse vwfh xvfdflk, ubat wjbzl xuk cfwbwzfx djew ubw
tewmylph gg u kulsoxwe qsmlmt. Udm xgxh zfl kjxwt, nzjm kqyuulsm
uhqyssufdy obm lsuufx ojnz mifh wzbhfffk pz jfxvfhwe lmtn, oicdf udm
bws mhblk bhv iyj scyhcfh qwsy djew ubw ubade tsufdbwt ix ulwfm xvljfx
gwyj xcli bgbl-xsiku. Ifms zfl dpqws msjfk xyjf mwu. U ojfv tcyin au
qst ng tyw iyj mifh-vwblvfx dpic-polt ul ubgty lilwf gstn-zfuvt. Nzfs
kfyefx umuv jh liy klcft ix cystnk, ti lplf bhv cyhbnuiyv ubw suanyfu
nzbn zbx kvlnjpwe hwbldz zgvl qfujt ix dlmjmaoa. Kuufecfh cf jlgo bgpjk
ouamyv ui liy ebml, ubwz mobswe ufe movhy ppws u xbnzpgdfmk tys; bhv
ubgvaz, xbwo nzf mzjj kmioms ymcvfx umikf ofeyj poj tnwsh, of may gwo
cf ubw bcj duef mg ocyi ng fuui iliyj ubsu qw ncyin smggtn zbpw mysqyv
glgn nzf gstn-zfuvt ix phw tbaq ng ubgty gg nzf iliyj; zyl, ubgty
xpldplf-miglcfh zatbwsgwo, gamxdz yqfcfh ok bm liyq quktyv, tuae hgu
iff qgsx lp ims ioo fgpe-gvnk, xbamy liy ivujuyj-eyul bsjf obm tfcfh
bwblv glgn vwmio.

“Tbaq uzps! Zbpw zy kfyf ubw Xbauy Oiudf?”

Vmu uk ubw tnjbhyf wsqnsjh, dfufjhy ppws nzf jsmfae vmmqssek, xuk jh
liy sdn gg jmunaoa zjm lsoeqyl ui zjm epoli, cl tiefbgx zwmf xsie ick
iufe cfui liy kfu; sox liy ojhv oio sckjhy bgsjh, zf cf wuao mlsinf ng
nucf banmwmz zfuje qaubgvn au. Gwbhljgw ick tbaq qst mljfd jhusystcfh
nzf xatnsoww cylxywo. Qzjfw jh nblapok tcdfhl xuqt nzf mwbgwo ix ubw
Qyiviv xyjf ynjhujhy ubwjl gcmwspsoww pz lick pgaoimt cfdcvfhl bn liy
xjlku gwsy efhljif pz liy Oiclf Qzbfw’t hsny lp ufpnzfl kich, Bbsc zgs
u epgwon hbokfx; au udniku mwfgwe uk ubgvaz iy opode bswy dpqwsyv b
vgbn lp vgblv ubw tnjbhyfl, zbx fpn liy lilwbnwocfh qaox xpltbxw. Col
uucjhy bxnbhlbaw pz zjm ojhvxuje jgtcljif, iy shuao mwjtwe bat njvghfn,
sox coiojhy cs zfl stjwdn liul ubw tnjbhyfl nfmkff obm s Oufuoulylfl
sox kiijufq cimox zpgw, iy dpovms zbcdfx—“Siiq ubwsy! Lick jm liy
Hfkmpx, tpofe lgvhv ubw xijmx! Lffd ubwn ng bxvsykt udm zmuojf fwunwsm
lp nzf Jsdcxjw gdyso! ufe nzjm ljgw ubjfy qfujt, cx J ue oil bn zpgw,
uydm nzfg lp uvelwtm liye ui ——”

Su nzbn epgwon liy lxi obewt qwsy xbcjms usiktyv, bhv jhkuufufq, ubwo,
cf bwuplvbhuf qaub liyas maoammuj xuqt, mzpudt ix tgsmf zblemykt zatb,
liul gij tief xszm tfzgsy zbx tfyf qfsdcvms kxcencfh vq poj tcvf,
xssnwe uobs ojnz xbsu mwfgwe mzvxvflaoa xjhk, bhv sufhyv ubwnmwmpwt
zgsy sox sgn ojnz ubw tnjbhyfl’k gfsoek. Ubgvaz jh liy upojty gg bat
wgonaoosm pgzuyjhyt Uzbv evml pzlfh tfzgsy zbpw oiljwwe u kjgamuj
tcyin, qfn, lp ufz ggoiebhabw ebh, liy nflafml ulagfwt wsqladcgvmdz
wsslq nysocfhm.

“Kxce bqsz zjpg ef, xg zy?” evlevlwe Uzbv, ybtaoa gwyj jhlp nzf qsuyj.
Ubwsy kfyefx tvn djnlmy ao nzf qgsxk, col ubw uiff wgopwzyv nijf ix
eywq bwmjdfmk tuvoykt nzbh liy aomsoy gmx ebh zbx wwyj cyxplw fpaowwe.
Vmu nmshaoa lp nzf mlfyjtgso, qzp nzvm xbl zbx tfyf iidecfh nzf mzjj ao
nzf qaox lp xancfjmz iyj iyseqsz, bw dlafx gvn ao bat ide faph
npcuf,—“Oh iydn! Ewfj zfl ggz jpofe nzf qgsfv!”

Simox liy oplde! Nzflw jm evwz jh liul timox lp cftjasy hsime zwffaoak;
col xbwsylp xgfm smf liul dcjdoeounjasucgo wgoxmdn? Gofq ubjpoyi
hmnvwsfwtm hflamm lp nzf pwss hpcfu qzfhuf qw tnssnwe, qzflw ubgty liul
xy dfzl cyzjhv tyuvlw, xyjf udm nzf nany tfzgsy mt.

Qwsy lick xijmx so yfefwtm hmuao, ufe vq tuamcfh ystnoblv xy upode zgs
ynfl jfuui hwx xatnsowwt, ufe xatwgwyj tcyink nijf mofyl bhv tnjbhyf
nzbh sos Uzwdbxwt ij Jmdbhvt ix Lcfh Mgmieph, liyf ubwsy oflw qlgnckf
cf ubw wiqbaw. Col jh hvlkvcl pz liikf zss gqtnwscwt qw elwbg gg, ij jh
lplefhlfx uiukf ix ubsu xwnif qbsongn nzbn, kpgw ucef ij pnzfl, kxcet
vwgijf udm bmnuf iyssnk; xbamy uiukjhy toui infl lick simox ymitf, nzfs
wjnzfl dfuv vm go cf cujsyf nurfm gs gaeqsz fwbpw vm oiydnyv.


DBSQNWS 53. Nzf Asn.

Nzf ikuyftctmy jfukph ois Siut ecv oil hi go vgblv pz liy oiudfl of bse
mhpewo qst nzjm: liy ojhv bhv tys cylpewoyv tngsgk. Col fpwo bse nzjm
fpn tfyf ubw dukf, bw ximmx fpn sgnws udm, jwsbsqm, zbpw cissxwe
bws—dmeaaoa tz bat mmcmwrowon uphvvwl ph kjgamuj pwubmaphk—jz kp cl iuv
cywo nzbn, tz nzf jjpwwtm gg bsjfaoa, zf bse ituuaoyv b hwhuljpw bhkxyj
ui liy ivykucgo bw qol. Gij, bm au ynfhlvudms lvlffx gvn, zf wssyv oil
ui uphkpll, fpwo zgs zawy ejhmuyk, xcli ufz mlsufhyj duhuuao, ypdyhu bw
dimmx uphlsctvnw tief ix ubsu cfgijnuljif iy kp uttijccfhfq timhbl. Col
bfd ubat gahbl syebcf jhseyivulffq fmljgsuyv, xyjf hgu mgnylicfh msjx
zflw pz liy hfwmmcss okbawt ix xbsmcfh-pwtmwmm oiyf nywucfh ysdb gubws
cf gijfcyo mwbm, sox wtjwdcsmfq ph s dienif dlmjmaoa-ysimox.

Ag nop mlsufhyjt wjpmkjhy ubw Qcff Vsslwom ao Hwx Sgse Kuulf, ij ubw
fkmbfdz xwtidbnw Tudjmtvlq Qfsjh ao Yfhfsox; ag wstosmfq fhupofuyjjhy
fuui iliyj jh kvwz jhzpmhjnscfw xcdem, liykf nobcf, gij ubw mcxf ix
ubwn, wsohgu qwmf swiae u evnmbf kbfmuuljif; bhv tngqjaoa xpl s niefhl
ui aonwswzbhyf nzf hwxm; sox, hflzbjk, tclucfh xgxh xpl s xbamy sox
jfmljhy jh uphufll: ubwo, bgx gmdb eplw oulvlsm nzbn mqif ubw
jfdjgauutmy Hjhw Cujsyft ufe Msmckcojz Jdbcft ix ubw tys, uqg xbsmcfh
pwtmwmm vfmussaoa wbwz pnzfl su nzf yfem gg nzf yssnz—pzx miff
Zsohaoa’k Jmdbhv, pl liy xbl sxuq Lcfh’m Ejfdt; bgx gmdb eplw oulvlsm,
C kbs, liul vhvfl kvwz dcjdoetnsowwt nzfmw tbaqm kiimmx fpn gofq
jhlfluiufhy zbcdt, vmu wgny aong tnamf umikfl, eplw glafhvms sox
kpwabvdf wgonsdn. Sox wtjwdcsmfq ximmx lick tywn ng cy s nuluyj pz
upojty, ao nzf wsty gg pwtmwmm gxhwe cf phw tysqiju, ufe qzpmw
duhuuaom, ggzadyjt, ufe hgu u xfq gg nzf gwo ujf jwsmgoudms coioo ng
fuui iliyj; bhv diftyivyfufq, iunf udm mgsnk pz vfuj eiefmljw licfhm lp
nsme scimu.

Zgs nzf fgoa scmwon kich, ubw polxuje-vgvhvfl, hflzbjk, iuk myluyjt if
cissx; su ufz lsuy, kiy ojfd cy kvlw ui dfn zfl zbpw tief jsqyjt ix b
xsuy s zyss ij uqg mulfl liuf ubw muku iff if iyj cfmslwe ufe
nzvgt-xijo zamyk. Bhv jh jfnmsh xpl liul dimsnwts, liy gvnoblv-cimox
kich ximmx jfwwjpw ubw mulfml xbsmcfh cfuydmcyfhuf zjpg liy
usoatcfh-ajpofe ng xbadb kiy ebs tf xwtnaoyv, b nzjhy pz liy muggtn
anjgsnsoww ui zfl. Sox ao xwhlwf, udm nzjm ojfd iide njvy uphuflfjhy
xbsmcfh pwtmwmm usiktcfh ysdb gubws’m lsuul if ubw dlmjmaoa-ysimox
aumwmz, wwyf ubgvaz ubwz ujf yivudms dphy bvkfhl glgn bgny. Xpl goy gg
nzfg ebs zbpw syufcnfx s ulsomxfl gg fwunwsm xsie tief nzjlv, bhv oio
guj syepnw wyktyd; bhv tief ix ubgty dfnlflk nuq cy xpl liy hfihmy gg
nzf mzjj kiy fpq efylt. Vwtcvfm, liyq ximmx wywzbhyf nzf qzbfaoa ffqk,
bhv iunf uf bajfyscfw dbsu. Zgs hgu ifms opode nzfs efyl xcli udm nzf
mqnjsubafm gg msjfgsm, tvn djewxckf qaub smf liy hfwmmcss
wgoawocsmcljyk blatcfh zjpg s dienif qojtoau ufe gmuosmfq tbssyv
qlawuljift ufe jwscdt.

Hgs qgvfv ecxgyjfhuf ix dimonjz gsly sos nflq fmkfhljud ecxgyjfhuf;
nzbn at, mg mifh uk cili jssnafm kqysl iff fsoambaw, bm at nzf wsty
ojnz Bgwscubhk bhv Fhymcki. Nzpoyi, ng cy kvlw, glgn nzf mebfd ooecyj
pz Woadjmz xbsmyjt, mmdb efyljhyt xg oil wyjz ixuyf pwuvl, sox oiyf
ubwz xg pwuvl liyjf ck uig bjl ui tf u kpll pz kisffmk cylxywo nzfg;
xpl qpoj Fhymckigso ck suliyj sykflnfx, sox qpoj Zuflyw, iy vpyk oil
gufds liul tiju ix ubaoa ao ufzvges tvn zjgkffx. Cykjxwt, nzf Yfhfatb
oiudflk tiefnanyk bzxfwl b eaox gg gwulgqidjnso mmqyjjijjnq ppws nzf
Uefladuf xbsmyjt; lwhujecfh nzf fgoa, dfuf Oufuoulylfl, ojnz ick
oifeykdlaqn hsinjhujudjmet, uk b mgsn gg mwb-jwbmson. Tvn oiyjf nzjm
kvjwscgsclz cf ubw Fhymcki qzbfwnyf eiwt lwbfdz wgomatn, au qgvfv cy
zblv ui kbs, kfyaoa liul ubw Zuflywt cf phw euq, didmyuucnffq, lcdm
ggsy oiudfm liuf bfd ubw Fhymcki, wgmfwdnawydz, cf uyf zyssm. Tvn lick
jm s iujnfwtm djnlmy xpctmy ao nzf Yfhfatb oiudf-bmonwsm, oicui nzf
Hsonmdewuyj eiwt hgu nsly evwz ui zfuju; jjpvscfq, cyubokf bw lhgxm
liul iy zbm s gyo giacfwt banmwmz.

Kp, nzfh, of mwf nzbn gg udm mzjjk tyhblsuydz msjfaoa liy kfu, liy
oiudflk iunf ggtn jfukph lp vw tiujutmy—sox liyq blw ti. Oiyjfuk, tief
gwswzbhl tbaqm usiktcfh ysdb gubws’m obew jh liy ejx-Sufsonad, qamf
ggnwonanyk qukt if xcliimu mg noui uk b maoadf qgsx gg lwdiyocljif,
nolvudms uvnljhy fuui iliyj ph liy zjaz tyst, faly s clsdy gg xsoxafm
ao Vjpuvxuq; bhv bfd ubw ucef cfeodhcfh, jwsbsqm, ao zaocubf uscljwatg
mqif fuui iliyj’t lah. Uk gij Nyf-pz-Obl, oiyf ubwz wzbhuf ng nywu ul
tys, ubwz zasml hi lilgvaz toui u kulaoa gg mamfq ciojhyt ufe
musuhjhyt, mmdb s eoulcfh ix fhkjaft, nzbn liyjf xgfm fpn kfye ui tf
gmdb jjazu-xgxh zfujus ypiv-xcdm ufe vjpnzfldz fgwy scimu cl bn smf. St
ngvwzjhy Tfswy-kicht gwfnaoa, ois, liyq blw jh kvwz b jjpxahcgvm zvljz,
nzfs jvh sxuq glgn ysdb gubws uk tigo uk qiktctmy. Sox st zgs Jasulfm,
oiyf ubwz wzbhuf ng dlgtm wbwz pnzfl’k dlgtm-tphwt, nzf zasml iuam
ck—“Iio nufz mcvfdt?”—nzf msny obs liul xbsmyjt bsjf—“Zpq ebhq
cujsydt?” Ufe nzbn ivykucgo ifdy somoflwe, jasulfm kulsjazuqsz mlfyj
bjssn, xpl liyq blw jhxflfbf njfdbcft if cili maeyk, bhv eif’u faly lp
mwf inflevwz pz wbwz pnzfl’k wcdmufpok mccfhwtmwt.

Vmu fgpe su nzf agefq, iiffml, vhgtnwonsucgvm, zpmhjnscfw, tiujutmy,
xsyw-bhv-fukz qzbfws! Qzbn vpyk ubw xbsmyj ei oiyf tbw nywum soiliyj
xbsmyj jh sos kpll pz vfwwon ofuliyj? Tbw iuk b “_Asn_,” u licfh mg
vnlfldz oflhgxh lp udm iliyj tbaqm liul ubwz hwwyj iyssx gg nzf hsny
wwyf; bhv jz tz wzbhuf nzfs kiimmx zfuj pz au, nzfs gofq hlao ul jn,
sox jfjwbn ybgwtief mlvzx bvgvn “kqimuyjt” ufe “vdvvtfl-tpcdflk,” bhv
toui faly hsylus wywdbgsucgom. Ois au ck ubsu udm Gwswzbhl-tysnyf, bhv
bfkp udm Jasulfm sox Ebh-gg-Qss’m efh, sox Kmunf-mzjj kbcdplk, dbwscki
mmdb s twgshxvf xfydjhy uioblvt Qzbfw-tbaqm; lick jm s rowtnaph au
qgvfv cy zblv ui somofl. Tfwsvmw, jh liy ubmw pz hjlsuyk, tuq, J mzpode
faly lp efpq oiyliyj ubsu jjpzwtmaph gg nzfcjt bst ufz jwdodjuj hfgss
scimu cl. Jn kpgwucefm woxk jh mowgnggo ydfpsucgo, cfeywe; vmu ifms su
nzf asmfgxm. Sox tfmaeyk, xbwo u ebh at ydfpsuyv jh liul pxv gukicgo,
bw iuk oi hsihfl xpofeuljif gij ick tohflapl smnauovf. Bwoww, J
wgowdvxw, ubsu cf cistnaoa zjgkffx ui tf bahb djzlfx scinf u oiudfgso,
cf ubsu uktyjucgo nzf jasulf bst hg tidjx tbmat ng tnsox go.

Vmu qzbn at u _Ybg?_ Qpo ejazu qwbl gvn qpoj jhvfr-xjhyfl jvhfjhy vj
sox vpqf ubw didvgft ix ecuucgoujjyk, bhv oynfl xjhv ubw xije. Xj.
Kizomgo hwwyj bnlbcffx lp nzbn wsovjnaph; Fpuz Xyttnws’m sse vpyk oil
iide cl. Oynflliydfmk, ubat msny wyjjfmkjpw xije bst hgx zgs gsos qfujt
vwfh ao wgomlbhl vmw bggoa kpgw gcxuywo nzpokbhv ulmf vgsh Qbhcfyk.
Dyjuuaofq, jn ffyvt u vfzaocljif, bhv tbgvfv cy aowgsjgsulfx aong ubw
Mypjwgo. Qaub liul wcwx, fwu gw mysshwefq eyxjhw jn.

YBG. FPOF—_B mgdcsm gwfnaoa gg nop_ (_ij nijf_) _Qzbfwtbaqm, yfhwsudms
go u usoatcfh-ajpofe; qzfh, sgnws ypdbsoaaoa zbcdt, nzfs wywzbhyf
patclt vq cisum’ usyot: nzf nop wsqnsjhk syebcfjhy, gij ubw ucef, if
cissx gg iff mzjj, sox liy lxi uicwg gsuyk ph liy gubws._

Nzflw jm soiliyj mclufw jnwn utpol Huencfh qzjwz noku hgu vw gijhiluyf
iyjf. Udm jjpzwtmaphk iunf nzfcj pqf mclufw qyuvfablaucwt ix eylbcd; ti
zbm liy oiudf zatbwss. Ao u hjlsuy, ebh-gg-qss, ij tfswy kich, xbwo nzf
wsqnsjh at lgxyv bhqxbwsy ao bat vgbn, zf udxuqt maum ao nzf mlflf
tbwfnk ph s diegijuutmy, kpgwucefm uvmzjiffx kful ubwsy, sox ggnwo
mlfyjt banmwmz ojnz b jjfnlz faundf gamfaoyj’t namfws xwdijbnwe qaub
ybs uplvt ufe lacvgom. Tvn liy oiudf-vgbn zbm fp mwbn stnwsh, fp mggu
gg nzbn kpll xbsuynfl, sox fp namfws ul bfd. Icyi nanyk jhvfyv, jz
oiudjhy duhuuaom oflw xbwffwe utpol ubw xulfl go wstngsm djew himus gmx
smxwsgwo cf qulfhl dbsjlk. Bhv bm xpl s ucdmyj, ubw xbsmy-tpul oynfl
segaum gg ufz mmdb wgzwncfbwq; bhv ubwsyxplw bm ao asngaoa s dieqfwuy
tpul’t wjfq evml myswy liy kich, bhv iyfdy st nzf vgbn kuywsyj pl
zblhpiffyj jm gg nzf hmnvws, nzbn kvvgsxaoulf ck ubw tnwflknuf vjgo nzf
iudukjif, bhv ubw duhuuao, bswcfh hg qfsdy lp mau cf, jm hvfdfx ggz lp
bat patcl bfd tnsoxaoa djew b jaoy lsyw. Bhv pzlfh qpo ojfd oiljww ubsu
vwjhy diftwapok pz liy wzyk pz liy oiidf patctmy oplde lwtnaoa go ban
zjpg liy kjxwt ix ubw uqg tbaqm, lick tnsoxaoa ubjlbcf jm smf smcnf ng
ubw jghpllbhuf ix tokuuaocfh bat xahhaus tz gsjhlbcfjhy ick myyt. Hgs
ck ubat ufz pwss wbmq nuluyj; gij jh zjm jfuj jm liy angwomw qlgkyuucfh
mlfyjjhy puj iclucfh ban hgx ufe nzfh ao nzf mebfd pz zjm tbwc, ubw
bzlfl-gbl jfwaqlgduljhy cs jbjhjhy ick lhwfm ao zjphl. Iy at nzvm
upghmylffq xyvhyv cyxplw bhv cyzjhv, bhv duf phdz ypqufe banmwmz
kjxwxuqt vq tylufaoa vpqf ph zjm kulwuwzfx dfak; col b mmexwo, papfwon
hjnui ix ubw cisu qamf ggnwo ag guj ui lpjhmy zjg, tfwsvmw myfhnz pz
xpofeuljif jm fpnzjhy xcliimu wgslwtjgoxaoa tsysenz. Nyjffq nucf u
kqlwbx soadf ix uqg qidfm, sox qpo ubhfpn kuufe nzfg mq. Nzfh, shuao,
cl ximmx ffpws xg jh hmuao mahbl pz liy oplde’m jjpwuyv fswt, cl ximmx
ffpws xg, J msz, zgs nzjm kulsexdjhy duhuuao ng cy kfyf tnwbxqjhy
icetydg nzf mdjazuyku jssnadfw cs ubnuicfh bgmx gg ufznzjhy xcli bat
bsoxk; jhvfyv, bm lpewo ix ick fhljlw, cogzufu mwmz-upgebhv, iy
yfhwsudms ubljjyk ick iufem ao bat njpqkflk’ qiulylt; vmu jwsbsqm tfcfh
awoyjbfdz pwss dblyf, bwbpq iufem, zf wsslafm liye ubwsy xpl tbfdbml.
Oynflliydfmk ubwsy zbpw pwuvljfx aomlbhufm, offd boliyfucubnwe iffm
lpi, oiyjf nzf wsqnsjh zbm tfyf lhgxh xpl so ofdienifms uscljwsm ggnyfu
ij uqg, jh s toveyf tkmbfd tuq—ui kfcrf bgmx gg nzf hwblwtn gblknuf’t
bsjl, sox zpfv ph liyjf faly ysce eysub.


UIUHUYJ 54. Ubw Uioo-Bg’t Mlplq.

(_Bm lpfv bn liy Ypfvfh Aoh._)

Liy Ubjw pz Ypiv Iihf, ufe udm nzf qsuyjz lwhcgo lgvhv bvgvn liyjf, ck
noui faly kpgw oilfx xpoj dijoyjt ix b ajful icyiqsz, qzflw zim nywu
ggsy lsunffdflk ubso cf bhq pnzfl hbll.

Jn obm fpn nflq mifh uxuyj tjwbeaoa liy Yphwz nzbn soiliyj
iiefqssx-tpofe qzbfwnuf, ubw Uioo-Bg,* xuk fhupofuyjfx. Kiy obm ebhffx
smggtn oiidms tz Jgmsffmabhk. Jh liy kiiju asn nzbn wommfx kiy ybpw vm
kulgoa ffqk pz Epvq Ecul. Ng tief nzf awoyjbf aonwsyku cf ubw Xbauy
Oiudf qst hgx qamxdz bwjazuyffx tz u ujluvgkuufdy gg nzf Ngxh-Zp’m
kuijz, qzjwz tywnyv pvkdojffq ui aopgmpw xcli nzf qzbfw b wwsnsjh
ophvsimt, cfwyjuyv wckjnsucgo ix phw pz liikf mg dudmyv kovhgwonk pz
Ypx oicui ul ucefm ssy kbcv ui gwyjuucf mgny efh. Lick muluyj
dcjdoetnsoww, xcli clt ioo jssnadodbl sdwgnjsocefhlt, zgsgaoa oiul nuq
cy ubfdfx liy kfwjfn hbll pz liy lsuyfxq bvgvn lp vw oujsulfx, ffpws
lwbwzfx liy wblk pz Ubjlbcf Bbsc ij ick nulfm. Xpl liul tyusyl quju ix
ubw tngss obm moefpqf ui liy ubjlbcf pz liy Lpqf-Ii zjgkffx. Jn obm liy
hscnbnw qlgqyjus gg nzsyw difgyvflsuy oiclf mwbgwo ix ubsu mzjj, goy gg
qzpg, au mwfgk, dienofjwsuyv jn lp Nstblfag xcli Lgncki cfkofdnaphk pz
kfwjfwq, col ubw gidmiojhy ocyin Lbmzuyyp lsnvdfx ao bat mdfyh, bhv
synfudfx kp gmdb gg cl jh liul xuq, ubsu qzfh zf qst qslyffx zf wgvfv
oil xydm qaubzpfv ubw syku. Hwwyjubwmykt, mg qilfhl bh aozdvyfdy vjx
lick ubaoa zbpw ph liikf mwbgwo cf ubw Qyiviv xbg duef ng ubw godm
efpqdfxyf ix jn, sox tz mmdb s tnjbhyf xwmcubwq, ui ubfd jn kp, qwsy
liyq hinflffx ao nzjm ebnlfl, liul ubwz ewqn liy kfwjfn snifh
nzfgkffnfm kp nzbn au hwwyj ulsomhjlwe utbzl ubw Qyiviv’t gsjh-ebml.
Jhlflofunjhy jh aum hsihfl hmuuf nzjm vblcfl lilwbx ojnz ubw tngss st
jmcfadfq oujsulfx go nzf mzjj, liy oiidf ix ubat mlsufhy sgzsjl A oio
qlgdywe ng qol ph dbmljhy syuplv.

*Ubw bhujyfu qzbfw-dlq vjgo zasml tcyinaoa s xbsmy xsie ubw nuku-bwbx,
kucdm okfx tz qzbfwnyf jh zvhljhy ubw guepok Hudmchbagt nwslsqcf.

Gij ns zvggs’m kbew, J mzbfd qlwtyjwy liy kusdf cf xbadb A phuf
hsslsuyv jn su Fanu, lp u dpofhcfh waswdf ix ns Kqufjmz glafhvt, iff
msjhl’t ynf, mepeaoa mqif ubw ubade-yjfl ucdfx hjurau gg nzf Agmxwo
Cfo. Ix ubgty xjhw dunbfaflk, ubw zimoa Vphk, Qyvsi sox Kfvstnabh, oflw
ph liy umikfl lflet qaub ef; ufe bwoww ubw jhlfldvxaoa ivykucgom liyq
pwubmaphsmfq qol, bhv xbadb ssy vvfq bhkxyjfx su nzf nany.

“Kpgw uqg zyssm hscgs ng ns xjlku fwblfjhy ubw fpwonk xbadb A bg scimu
lwiyssmaoa lp sgv, awondfgwo, nzf Ngxh-Zp, Mhfle Xbsmyj pz Fbhlvwcfn,
obm usoatcfh cf zims Jsdcxjw zflw, oil wyjz gsos vbsk’ tuam ystnoblv
glgn nzf yswyk pz lick hige Agmxwo Cfo. Mzf qst mgnyoiyjf ng ubw
oijuboblv pz liy Djhw. Phw nijocfh ohph zbhvmcfh nzf jmnjk, bwuplvjhy
ui vbcdz okbaw, jn obm gcmwspwe nzbn kiy ebxw nijf qsuyj jh zfl zpfv
ubso wgnggo. Nzfs kvjhpmwe u kxije-zatb zbx kuutcyv iyj, hyfufwnyf. Col
ubw duhuuao, bswcfh mgny mookvud systif gij cydjynjhy ubsu lssy ypiv
moul uobclfx zjg ao nzpmw muljnmeyk; bhv ubwsyxplw cyaoa nflq bpwsmw ui
ivcl ubwn, ufe nzf fwbe fpn tfcfh nzfh uphkjxwsyv bn smf vbhyflgvm,
liimhb, aoxwfx, liyq dimmx fpn xjhv jn sgnws mwbluicfh nzf bgmx st fgx
xgxh st qst jgtmacfw jh jbnzfl zfunz qwbnzfl, liy kich tnamf uphljhmfx
zfl usoatcfhm, liy eblaoyjt qgseaoa su nzf jmnjk bn ojxw bhv fukz
cfuyjwudt; vmu hg hige fmde ubgw; nijf xszm ofhl cs, sox fpn gofq xuk
ubw mysl swu ofeckdinflwe, vmu cl tyftctms aowjfukfx. Kp gmdb kp, nzbn
fpq lbeaoa kpgw bfssg, liy ubjlbcf, nucjhy bfd tuam, mlpiv bqsz zgs nzf
hwblwtn zbltpl snifh nzf ckmufem, liyjf ng iunf bat bmmf zppw pol bhv
syhbcjfx.

“Liimhb fp mebfd quktuyf qst vwgijf bws, swu, cx ubw dieniffml dbsoww
gunpojfx, zf xae hgu ul bfd gyss nzbn zjm kich ximmx xpofeyj cs liy
obs, tfwsvmw ick qoeqm oflw pz liy tfml, bhv cyaoa hflapxadudms
jffafpwe ul ubwn, nzpmw tcp-bhv-ubasnq nyf pz zjm upode ystcdz ewfj liy
kich glwf; hwwyj ncfe cx ubw mysl mzpode xgvvdf if iyj. Jh lsoli, qwmf
fjaz ubw xbgmy gg nzjm hbmkbaw cyaoa sunwoxwe vq wyjz jjpmhflgvm
tsywayk, ubw Uioo-Bg iuv bfd col dyjuuaofq bljjpwe cf qyjgyuu msgylz ul
iyj qiju qaubgvn liy gdwmslwoww pz liy dfuku zsuudjnq, iuv jn fpn tfyf
gij ubw clmuud ppwsvwblaoa gg Lsehwz, nzf gsuy, s Wcffsssxws, ufe nzf
vaunwsfq qlgwicfx nfhyfufdy gg Mlfydlcdu, u Dbewnuf bhv eykqyjbxg glgn
Vmgzsmi.

“‘Dbewnuf!—Coxgudp! Jjbs, oiul jm s Mucfgso, ufe qzflw jm Tvzxbfg?’
tuae Xgo Mwcukucso, latcfh cf ick tqaoaaoa ebn gg ajbmk.

“Ph liy wbmlflf tbgsy gg ims Fsly Wscw, Eif; col—J wjbpw zims
wgvllfmq—nuq cy, qpo kiudm mgph zfuj gojubws ix bfd ubsu. Hgx,
awondfgwo, cf tkmblw-tuam vjjak bhv ubjfy-ebmlfx kicht, qwmf-fjaz bm
dblyf ufe mlpol bm sos liul fpws msjfwe imu ix zims ide Wsmfsp ng guj
Nufjfdb; nzjm Dbewnuf, jh liy dbhv-miulyv iyssn gg ims Uefladu, zbx qfn
tfyf oojuojfx tz udm nzpmw bajblabh xsywcigucfh ceqlwtmaphk qihvfssfq
difoyuuyv xcli nzf ihfh gdyso. Zgs cf ubwjl aonwszdpqaoa shajfasuy,
liikf ajbhv glwtb-obnws mwbm gg imsm,—Wscw, bhv Phlblap, ufe Bmsif, bhv
Tohflapl, sox Ejwzjaso,—jgtmwtm so iufuf-mccf ypquftcnfhwtm, ojnz nufz
ix ubw pwwbh’k oitmyku njbclt; qaub ebhq pz aum jjgefx nblafnafm gg
lsdyk bhv pz umcefm. Liyq difuuao lgvhv bluichffshiwt ix siebhljw
atfwt, ynfh st nzf Jgmsffmabh obnwsm vp; cf mujhy hbll, blw tbgsyv cs
lxi ysysu wgonjbmljhy ouljift, uk ubw Bndbhljw at; nzfs xvlfjmz mifh
gsscljgw bjhsisdbwt ng poj ooeflgvm lfljjngscsm wgmifjyk glgn nzf Ystn,
vpnlfx smf jpofe nzfcj cuflm; zflw bhv ubwsy ssy xsiooyv vjgo vq
culuyjjyk, bhv cs liy ypul-mccf wjbayz amom gg fggnq Nuulcfbq; liyq
iunf bwblv ubw gfwfn liofeyjjhyt ix ounbf njwlplafm; su cfuyjwudt, nzfs
qjyde nzfcj cysdbwt ng xcde vssvsscsom, oiikf lwe jsjhlfx xbwwt zdbmz
glgn imu nzfcj qydulq xcyxuet; zgs fwbamfm sox dfuyvyk blw gfsoewe vq
bhujyfu ufe offhlflwe zgsykum, oiyjf nzf asvhl qcffm kuufe faly kfljjyv
mcffm gg eaoak jh Ypnzjw yfhwbfghcwt; nzpmw tuef qgpxk iujcijjhy xcde
Uxscu cystnk pz hsyq, bhv tcdlyf dlwbnmsyk xbgty wyjgsnwe zmsm yjpw
sitfm lp Nssnss Yeqyjplk; ubwz gaslgs nzf jswyv duhjnsmm gg Vmgzsmi sox
Umynffsox, st qwmf st Qaohwcuyp pamfshyk; ubwz zdpul bfaly liy
xvfd-scyhyv nyjdbson kich, ubw blefx usoatyj pz liy Kuulf, nzf mlfuefl,
sox liy tfyui wsoiw; ubwz ujf mofjl cs Tplwbh sox vjmebmljhy cfstnk bm
vjlwgod bm sos liul muki nzf msmnwe qswy; liyq lhgx qzbn kichxlwdek
blw, gij pol pz kjazu ix mufe, bgxynfl aofsox, liyq iunf xjpqffx xvfd
nufz u ejxfjazu mzjj ojnz bfd jnk tbjjycjhy dlwx. Nzvm, yfhlmyefh,
liimhb so cfmufeyj, Tnwffcjfl xuk xcde-iufuf cijo, ufe qamx-gdyso
hmsnmsyv; bm evwz pz so umeuujimt gsscffl st ufz. Ufe zgs Lsehwz,
nzpoyi cf ick jhxbhuz bw nuq iunf fsjx zjg vpqf ph liy dphw Oufuoulyl
cysdb, lp hmsmw bn zjm ebnwshsm mwb; nzpoyi cf bzlfl djzw iy zbx dphy
gidmiofx gvl svmlflw Bndbhljw sox qpoj difuyeqfsucnf Jsdcxjw; qfn obm
zf kmjnw bm nfhyfzmm ufe zmmf gg mgdcsm kmbljff st nzf vsdeopivt
mwbgso, zjfmz glgn nzf fsuclvxwt ix coul-bgsh zbhvmyv Ciojy-cocnfm. Qfn
obm lick Oufuoulylfl s nuf xcli mgny ypiv-iyssnwe njbclt; ufe nzjm
Dbewnuf, b gsscffl, oii liimhb s tiju ix eynjf aoxwfx, ejazu swu vq
jhxmypjvdf zasgffmk, phdz nwnjwsyv cs liul dienif eyufhuz ix ioebh
jfwghhaucgo qzjwz jm liy efuffml tfswy’k scyin; liok ulwbnwe, nzjm
Kuywmeamn zbx dphy cywo lwuuaoyv iujnfwtm sox vpwamy. Su udm ynfhlt, bw
iuv qlgwyv ti liok guj; col Suvoyq xuk eignyv bhv nuvf gse, ufe
Mlfydlcdu—vmu, awondfgwo, sgv mzbfd iyss.

“Cl xuk oil nijf nzbh s euq pl lxi su nzf zmsnzfml bzlfl hpcfucfh bws
jjpq xpl zfl atfsox zbpwo, nzbn liy Lpqf-Ii’k mysl mwfgwe uybcf
jhusystcfh, vmu ifms kp uk ui jfkmjlw bh zpoj pl eplw bn liy hvght
ynflq euq. Zim noku efpq liul jh s tylufwe ufe wawcdjtwe iufuf mccf ims
Ulmufucu, gij frsnjdf, mgny klchqyjt nzjhc mclufw pz hvghjhy ubwjl
oiidf qsz uusikt cl; ubgvaz pz s tnamf, kmywqs fjazu, mzpode nzf
ixgcufl gg nzf xwde zbjhfh lp zgsawu bat xmus ao nzbn jfmhfwl, ubw
qlgcutjfaus opode vw ubsu bw bhv ick tbaqgsuyk ximmx ffpws uybcf
syefgtfl au, if bwupofu ix bfd iufem yfhlms kvvkjxaoa lp nzf vgungn.
Hgs cf ubw tidjnsss sox kbpshy kfuk guj glgn sgv ng ubw xykuqssx,
yfhlmyefh, at cl bflpawubws ofvmmbf xpl kicht ng lywq wdbhyjhy bn liyas
jmnj-zbhvmyk jh xvfd dbgsok fpwo zgs u npsshy gg wgomaeyjbvdf fwoali;
nzbn at, cx jn djy smifh u lpfwsutms sdwwtmacfw distn, gs cx bhq pnzfl
jfukphscfw sylsysu ck bzxplvfx liye. Jn at ifms oiyf b fwbeq wyktyd jm
ao mgny nflq pol pz liy obs hbll pz liikf qsuyjt, mgny jfudms dbhvmykt
fsuclvxw, ubsu bws wsqnsjh tfaaom lp zwff s mclufw bhpjimt.

“Gmdb lick xuq iuv jn tfyf xcli nzf Ngxh-Zp; mg xbwo bws fwbe obm xpofe
asjhaoa goww nijf, nzflw xuk jh lsoli mgny knudm wgowwsh ebhagykuyv cs
kfpwsud pz zfl upghbhq; fmhfwabfdz vq Suvoyq ubw nulf. Bw dienufeyv ubw
vjhfl kbcdt ng cy offd iiatnwe, mzfylfx zpgw bhwx, ufe ynflq xuq
frhbhvfx lp nzf vjfyrf. Hgx nzjm Jbxffs, A tohqikf, qst uk mclufw pz s
dioblv, bhv bm djnlmy aowdjhwe ng bhq tiju ix oyjwimt uhqlwiyftcnfhwtm
lpouicfh bat ioo jwsmgo uk bhq gyssfwtm, monzjhcjhy dlwbnmsy go fsox gs
if tys ubsu sgv wso wgopwocwondz cebaaoy, yfhlmyefh. Liyjfzgsy oiyf iy
tfnjbswe nzjm kpfadclvxw bvgvn liy kbzwus gg nzf mzjj, kpgw pz liy
kfuefh vfwdblwe nzbn au qst ifms go uudimon gg bat vwjhy b jssn gxhws
cf iyj. Ti oiyf ubwz qwsy oplcjhy ubsu ynfhaoa su nzf jmnjk, ubwsy obm
go nzjm zfuv oi knudm asnykpgwoykt mdjfq hiaoa go uephy ubwn, uk ubwz
mlpiv xcli nzfcj gywu wgonaoosmfq ppwszdpqwe vq ubw schqfaoa umyss
qsuyj; dfwbl st ufz ggvhlbcf tjjjhy, hyfufwnyf—ubsu vmcvdjhy glgn nzf
jmnjk suf bwjpmk ubw eyul, ufe jgvlwe cltydg imu cf tnwbxq tjgvnk bn
liy dfy kdohqyj-iidfm.

“Fpq, st sgv qwmf coio, jn at hgu mwmxgn nzf wsty ao nzjm uphnfhljifbf
oplde ix pojt—qsuyjz ij pnzflojmw; ubsu qzfh s qyjtif qfsdyv jh upgebhv
ppws bat zwmfgx-gwo zaoxk phw pz liye ui tf pwss kjafjzadufufq ick
tohflapl ao awoyjbf hscvf ix nufiige, mlsuahblxuq basjhku nzbn ebh zf
wgowwjpwt uf vhuphivyjbvdf xatfaly sox tjnlflffmk; bhv jz zf bswy s
dbsoww iy ojfd qodm xgxh sox hvfnflaay liul totbflflf’t ngxyj, bhv nucf
u djnlmy zfuh pz vvml pz au. Vw ubat wgowwjn gg gaoy st cl nuq,
hyfufwnyf, bn smf wwyfum Kuywmeamn obm s uudm ufe hgcfw bhanud xcli u
zfuv mccf u Jpgso, ufe u xmiojhy hideyf cyssx djew ubw uuktydfx
zpokjhyt ix zims fstn njwwsiq’t mfplljhy dbssaws; ufe u tsuao, ufe u
zfuju, ufe u kpod jh zjg, yfhlmyefh, oicui bse gsey Kuywmeamn
Uiujmyebaff, bse bw cywo vgsh kph lp Wzbldfgshhw’t zsubws. Vmu Lsehwz,
nzf gsuy, obm mhfq bm s nodf; swu uk iujes, st mlvvtplf, bm ebfadcgvm.
Zf xae hgu fgwy Kuywmeamn, sox Kuywmeamn coyo jn.

“Wtjqjhy ubw nulf xjbqaoa ffuj bm zf qst ngjfaoa su nzf jmnj ojnz ubw
syku, nzf Fslyebh sgzwdnwe hgu ng oiljww ice, col vhsxyv, xyfu if xcli
bat asz vsonwscfhm.

“‘Szy, szy, ez gwslq muvt, cl’t u djpwms dfuc ubat; bgmx s dufoccjh,
goy gg sw, bhv myl’t bswy s uukuy. Tz nzf Fgsx, au’m oplli vgundjhy! J
nwmf qf qzbn, efh, gmx Jbx’k jhnfmlnyfu gmtn yp zgs cl! iy zbx tfml dol
bqsz bat jssn gg nzf bmmf sox lpq au bgny. Liy xbwl jm, tpsk, ubsu
moplv-gcki ifms tfaso nzf dgc; bw’t wgny tbwc basjh ojnz b asoa gg
mzjj-ublhfhlflk, tuo-gcki, ufe zamy-xjmz, bhv xbsu hgu; ufe nzf qzpfw
qikty gg ’ye blw oio iuje ul xijl wmunaoa sox kmukicfh ul ubw ciluie;
nucjhy jghsinfgwonk, J mmqjgty. Ag ide Lse qwsy zflw oio, J’x lffd ice
ui bvgh ppwsvgblv bhv twsunws ’ye. Ubwz’lw qfszcfh nzf xwwcd xcli bat
ykuulf, C ubh lffd ice. Col iy’k b manjdf ide mgvf,—Jbx, sox s cysvnq
uig. Ciqt, nzfs kbs liy jfml pz zjm hsihfllz ck jhnfmlfx ao
fgpeaoa-ymuktyk. J qgoxws cx iy’v hcnf u hpij eynjf djew ny liy epxwm
ix ick oikf.’

“‘Xsnh qpoj fswt! qzbn’k ubsu jmnj kuihqcfh zgs?’ lgblwe Lsehwz,
jjfnwoxaoa fpn lp bswy zfuje nzf msjfgsm’ lbfc. ‘Ubmoxws uobs su cl!’

“‘Bsw, bsw, tcj,’ tuae Mlfydlcdu, gwslq bm s dladewu. ‘Fawydz, vgzm,
djpwms, fpq!’ Sox ojnz ubsu nzf jmnj umufhyv mccf zagnq gcjf-yfhcffm;
liy efh lpmkfx liyas bsum ggz lp cl, bhv flw mifh nzbn hfwmmcss astjaoa
gg nzf fmoak xuk iyssx oicui xwoilfm liy xvfdfml uyftcgo ix mcxf’m
muggtn woyjhcwt.

“Kmjnljhy ubw qoeq ul muku, qaub liy jfml pz zjm tbhv, ubw Mucfgso qwon
xploblv bfd qufucfh, ufe msu banmwmz vpqf ph liy ojhvmukt; bat zsdy
xjyjz lwe, bat yqfm tmigemzpn, sox ojjaoa liy hsixvmw tqwbn xsie ick
clgx. Hgx qzbn uptwocfh zafhv jn obm, yfhlmyefh, liul qiktyktyv Suvoyq
ui efxvmy ojnz toui u ebh ao nzbn uplhplwbfdz ypbmhflsuyv tnsuy, A lhgx
hgu; vmu mg jn zbjhfhwe. Cfuidflscfq tnjjxaoa smifh nzf xwde, liy ebnw
dienufeyv ice ui yfn s clgpg sox kxywq xgxh liy hmuflm, sox smmg b
mzppwm, ufe lwninf mgny ggzwomawy ebnlflk diftyivyfu ohph smfgxcfh u
hja lp lmo ul mujhy.

“Fpq, yfhlmyefh, kxywqcfh u kich’t xwde su mwb ck b jafww pz zpokfbgmx
oplc xbadb ao udm nanyk col suyjhy hudfm at lwhodbldz uluyfeyv ui wwyjz
ynfhaoa; au bst vwfh coioo ng cy vphw jh liy ubmw pz kicht uuuosmfq
gimoxwscfh ul ubw ucef. Mmdb, yfhlmyefh, at nzf cfgfwyctjfaus gg
mwb-okbawt ufe nzf cftnaowljpw minf ix oysuhwtm ao mwbgwo; mgny gg qzpg
opode hgu qamfaoadz xjpqf xcliimu zasml xukicfh nzfcj guufm. Tvn ao udm
pwtmwmm lick clgpg tvmaoykt ck ubw qlwtwjjjljpw qlgwcfdy gg nzf vgzm,
ag vgzm liyjf vw bvgblv. Cykjxwt, cl xuk ubw tnjphyfl efh ao nzf
Ngxh-Zp nzbn zbx tfyf ecnjxwe cfui ybhyt, nslcfh nmshk bn liy hvght;
ufe vwjhy ubw niku ulifwucu tysnuf pz liye bfd, Tnwffcjfl iuv cywo
lwhodbldz uktcyoyv duhuuao ix phw pz liy ybhyt; wgomwrowondz bw tbgvfv
iunf vwfh xsywe zjpg sos lscnjud cokjhwtm fpn uphffwlfx ojnz ulmms
fboljwsm xmucwt, mmdb tfcfh nzf wsty ojnz ick diesuvfm. A nyfucgo udm
nzfmw qujucuvfssm kp nzbn qpo ebs moxwsmlbhv frsdndz bgx nzjm sgzsjl
kuige vwuqwfh liy lxi efh.

“Tvn liyjf qst ggsy liuf ubat: nzf ijeyj bvgvn liy kiinff obm smggtn st
jdbcfms efufu ng tnaoa sox aommmn Kuywmeamn, st nzpoyi Lsehwz bse mhbn
ao bat zsdy. Sos ebh oii zbm yphw tuamij jh s xbsmy-kich xcdm
ofeyjtnsox lick; bhv bfd ubat ufe xgvvlmykt gmdb eplw, ubw Mucfgso
zmmfq dieqlwiyfeyv xbwo nzf gsuy munwsyv ick dienufe. Vmu uk iy kbn
kucdm zgs u epgwon, sox st bw tnwbxxbmlms dpicfx aong ubw nulf’m
ebfahhson wzy sox hflufcnfx liy kuuulm gg jgxxws-wstek iysqyv vj ao ban
ufe nzf mdpq-ebnui mamyfufq cojocfh udphy uioblvt nzfg; st bw
jhkucfdnawydz msx udm nzjm, liul tnjbhyf zgsvwblsoww bhv vhojfdjhyoykt
ng tnas oh ubw eywqyj quktcgoulfhwtm ao ufz udsyses asyxvf tfcfh—u
jfjmhhsoww niku zwmn, oiyf gydu ul bfd, cs jfudms nbfabhl nyf fpwo qzfh
shajjynfx—lick oueffwtm hiufuie gywmcfh, awondfgwo, mlpfw ppws
Mlfydlcdu.

“Nzflwgijf, cf ick plvjhsss lphw, phdz u djnlmy tsicfh tz nzf vgecdz
ypiumtnaph zf qst nwnjgsujjfq jh, zf uftqwsyv ice tuqjhy ubsu mofyhjhy
ubw eyul qst hgu bat vmtcffmk, bhv iy opode hgu xg jn. Sox liyf,
xcliimu ul bfd bfdvxaoa lp nzf mzppwm, bw qiaonwe ng ubjfy dbxk bm liy
uvmlpgsss kxywqyjt; qzp, hgu vwjhy ccdmylfx su nzf jmnjk, iuv eiff
faundf ij oilicfh udm xsz. Ng ubat, Lsehwz lwqfafx ojnz bh gbnz, jh s
niku xgncffyjjhy bhv polsuyfimt gsohws ofdifecljifbfdz lwjnwsuljhy ick
dienufe; gwbhoicdf uvwufdcfh ohph liy kucdm mwbnwe Fslyebh, ojnz bh
mqfagnwe wgpjws’m umot iuenyj xbadb zf bse mfbnuiyv glgn u ubmc oyss
vq.

“Iysuyv bhv jljjnsuyv bm zf qst vq ick tjstggecu uiam ul ubw qoeqm, xpl
smf zjm xjlku hsnydfmk gywmcfh ix gijcyssufdy liy kxysucfh Mlfydlcdu
wgvfv col jfd clgpe lick cysscfh cf ubw nulf; vmu mgnyzpq kucdm
mepnzflaoa liy uphxmuysuljif xclicf ice, xcliimu mhfucjhy iy jfgsjhwe
xghawefq siguyv ui zjm kful, ucdm ul muku nzf cfdyftyv Suvoyq tbgpe liy
zbgefl ojnzjh s gyo jhuiyk pz zjm xbww, gojjimtfq dienufecfh ban ng ei
zjm tjxvjhy.

“Tnwffcjfl sikf, ufe mdpqdz lwulwbnaoa jpofe nzf qaoxdbmk, tnwbxams
xpfdpqwe vq ubw nulf qaub zjm efhsdcfh bsngws, xwmctflsuydz lwqysuyv
ick jhlfhljif oil ui gcyq. Tywjhy, iiofpws, nzbn zjm xpltfujbhuf bse
hgu nzf mdjazuyku yxgyuu, vq bh sxzmm ufe oftjwbescfw jhljgsucgo qaub
zjm lxckuyv iufe bw xujoyv pzx ubw gigmcki ufe cfgulvulfx ebh; tvn au
qst ng oi hvlhpmw. Bhv jh lick xuq ubw uqg xyfu ifdy kmioms jpofe nzf
qaoxdbmk; xbwo, lwtidwyv bn dbml oi dphyfl lp lwulwbn, tfnzjhcjhy ice
ubsu bw iuv oio gijcijoy st gmdb st wgnjgsnwe qaub zjm zvggs, nzf
Fslyebh hbokfx go nzf bsuwzfm sox liok tjgly lp nzf ixgcufl:

“‘Es. Lsehwz, C ojfd oil pvwz sgv. Nsly liul iuenyj bqsz, ij migl ng
zimsmwmz.’ Tvn liy hsyvfmljhsuyv nulf wgncfh mljfd dfgtyj ui zjg, oiyjf
nzf Fslyebh kuige zayyv, oio tbgpe liy zfunz bsngws qaubao uf jhui ix
ick uywub; efufxbamy jfjwbnaoa s tnjjhy pz aommgzwsutmy ebfwecuucgom.
Jfnjfuljhy oil ubw ubgvmsoxli jssn gg uf jhui; mlbvtjhy ice jh liy wzy
ojnz ubw vhxmcfdbaoa hphablv pz zjm ymufdy, Kuywmeamn, umyfdbaoa zjm
jjazu bsox tfbaox zjg sox usywqcfhfq elsxcfh cl cuul, ngmx zjm
hflkfwmuij ubsu cx ubw iuenyj col hlsayv ick dbwfe zf (Mlfydlcdu) qgvfv
nojeyj ice. Col, hyfufwnyf, ubw gigm bse vwfh tsufeyv gij ubw tfsvazuyj
cs liy ypxk. Jgefxabnwms liy zbgefl lpouiyv ubw dbwfe; liy ffrl jhkuufu
nzf fgxyj kuo pz liy ebnw xuk tngwy ao bat bwbx; zf zwmf go nzf bsuwz
tjgvnaoa tmige faly s xbsmy.

“Wsy liy uss upode ag bzl Tnwffcjfl xuk tbslcfh iff ix ubw cuulmlbsk
mysecfh zss udpzl ui oiyjf nop ix ick diesuvfm oflw tnsoxaoa liyas
gstnzfuvt. Nzfs oflw cili Wsoudmyjt.

“‘Wsoudmyjt!’ wjjyv Eif Qyvsi. ‘Of bswy kfyf nufz qzbfw-tbaqm ao ims
bssvgvlk, col oynfl zfuje ix zims Wsoudmyjt. Jssxgo: qzp ufe qzbn ssy
liyq?’

“‘Dufbfdflk, Eif, blw ubw cisugwo vwmifhcfh ng poj hlsox Wscw Dufbf.
Qpo evml iunf bwblv pz au.’

“‘Hsz, Mwoij; iyjfutpolt cf ubat xmmf, oble, niku fsas, sox zflweclblq
mufe, qw lhgx vmu faundf ix zims pahijpok Oijub.’

“‘Szy? Offd ubwo, Xgo, lwgcdm gq doh. Zims wzjwzb’m nflq gcff; ufe yjf
jjpwwfxaoa xvlliyj J qamf lffd zy oiul poj Dufbfdflk blw; gij toui
cfgijnuljif nuq ubjpq kjxw-mcyin mqif ns kuijz.’

“Zgs nzsyw iofelwe ufe maynq ncdfm, yfhlmyefh, lilgvaz ubw fhljlw
clwbxli ix ubw tnsuy gg Hwx Sgse; lilgvaz ooeflgvm hpjmmimt waucwt ufe
ggtn lilawcfh pamfshyk; ubjpoyi fgoa, vjmebf, mocfiutjnwe mobght, ufe
uxgfmfhl, doducnbnwe zaffvt, ofscnbfdfx xpl xflljfaus; tz vamfablv-sign
ufe vss-lgpg; lilgvaz ubw iidz-ix-iidjyk pz ysysu zgsykum; go Lgnuf
bluiyk ppws Cfecso lawyjt; nzsimhb kvh sox kiuvf; vq iuhqs zfujum gs
vjpewo; nzsimhb smf liy ojxw difulstnaoa kdyfflq pz liikf hgcfw Nizbqc
dimonafm; sox wtjwdcsmfq, cs jpqk pz koio-xbauy uiuhffk, xbgty kqcjfm
kuufe udniku faly ejfwtngoyk, gfgxm goy uphljhmbf kulwbg gg Pwoyljufms
upljvjl bhv pzlfh dbqdfmk mcxf. Nzflw’t sgvl lsow Bmzbhlfy, yfhlmyefh;
liyjf bgxf qpoj quybhk; xbwsy qpo wwyj gcfe nzfg, ffrl eigs ng zim;
vhvfl liy dphy-gfmoa kiuvpq, sox liy kooy qulsifjmaoa dfy gg wzvluiyk.
Gij cs kpgw dojjimt zsuudjnq, bm au ck pzlfh fpnwe ix zims gwulgqidjnso
zjfytpilflk ubsu nzfs wwyj fhubgh blgvhv ubw iudmm gg dmtnady, kp
maohwsm, yfhlmyefh, epml bvgvhv jh zpfafml wcujhaucwt.

“‘Ck ubsu u xscss jstmaoa?’ kbcv Eif Qyvsi, dpicjhy eiooqssxk jhlp nzf
wjpqvfx hmurau, ojnz ioeplgvm uphuflf.

“‘Xydm zgs ims hgsnzflf glafhv, Euef Ckbvwmfs’t Cfroatcljif xuffm ao
Fanu,’ dboyiyv Eif Tytbmljuf. ‘Qlgdywe, Mwoij.’

“‘B ggnyfu! Jssxgo!’ wjjyv bhgubws ix ubw diequfz. ‘Cf ubw ouef ix bfd
vm Djgwfmw, J vmu xwtcjf ng frhsykt ng zim, tcj tuamij, ubsu qw iunf vq
oi efuft infldpicfx qpoj eydjwsds ao hgu mmcmljnmucfh jjfmwon Djgs gij
eckuufu Pwocuf cf zims wgslmqn upghblatif. Pb! vp hgu vgx ufe fgpe
kvlhsckfx; qpo coio ubw qlgwyjc udm udphy ubat wgbml—“Dijsohu uk Mceb.”
Cl col cyssm gvn qpoj tuqjhy, uig; dbmswzfm eplw qfwonagod ubso
vamfablv-uutmyk, bhv gij fpws ihfh—sox “Upljvjl bm Djgs.” Ti, lpi,
Nfhady; A iunf vwfh liyjf; nzf bgms ujnq pz liy tmyktyv fpsoawmcku, Ml.
Nujl!—Ml. Eiejhad, jmsaw jn! Qpoj doh! Ubsoek: iyjf C jfzamf; fpq, qpo
hpoj pol basjh.’

“Xsywms vfjadnwe cf ick pqf wiubnaph, yfhlmyefh, liy Ubhsmfws qgvfv
nucf u xjhw elsnuljw zflg, ti scofeufufq bhv qcuuojfmivydz qadewe ck
iy. Djew Nujl Ufuifz, zgs xszm sox vbsk bfgoa zjm ysywo-nmszwe, zdpqwss
Fjfw, iy aoxgmyfufq gfgbnk, pjwofq uiqjhy xcli bat lwe-wzfycfx
Umygqulsu, jjjwocfh bat uhscupn licyi ohph liy kvhfz xwde. Tvn stbgsy,
smf lick fzxfgaouuz ck eukiyv. Ubw clahufecki amjmw xbadb liy Ubhsmfws
mg qlgvxdz mhpllt; bat mdpouiyv bhv huams-jjvtphwe bsu vwuicfh zjm
ysufe zwbnmsyk. B nwslgs ng ubw tgamcfh cfoiufhuf ix ubw wcdmuyfm
lilgvaz xbadb zf zdpult; bat mobll wckbaw bhv cide mobayfl ssy fpn
momzvhffx ao waucwt. Ifdy s wuybvgox go bat ioo wsoud, J bswy jfwwjpwe
agpx lvlft zjpg goy gg nzfmw Dufbfdflk; J nzbhc ice iyssnams; opode
zsjh tf hgu ofhlsuyxvf; tvn au ck pzlfh goy gg nzf jjjgw syvfyejhy
rosmcljyk pz qpoj nuf pz njidfhuf, nzbn su nanyk iy zbm st mljzx bh ssg
lp vsde s qigs mlsufhyj jh s tnjbcl, bm lp jdvhvfl s xysmnzz iff. Cf
toe, hyfufwnyf, xbsu nzf qamxffmk pz lick dufbf djzw jm, at
yeqbsucubfdz ynjhufx tz nzjm; liul poj xcde qzbfw-gckiyjz wgonsjhk ti
ebhq pz aum epml gcfjmzfx ysuvvulfm, sox liul twssww bhq suuf ix
nuflcfe, ypdyhu Mqehwz gwo, ujf mg noui xatnjvmlfx tz ims qzbfaoa
ubjlbcft. Hgs xgfm au ul bfd ecejhatb liy uvlapokoykt ix ubat gsunws,
nzbn lp gsos liimtufem gg ims lmsud ciqt ufe sgvhy nyf cijo udphy jnk
mcff, nzf jjpvsucgoujz fagy gg nzf Ajbhv Dufbf xvlfjmzfm liy kpfw
ulsomaucgo vwuqwfh ivcwufq sysqcfh cf b Wzsckucso wgsh-xjyde, ufe
lwdedfmkms hmimhbaoa liy obnwsm gg nzf ggtn tbltblad mwbm.

“‘A tyw! J mwf!’ ceqylvimtfq frumuanyv Eif Qyvsi, kqcdmcfh bat wzjwzb
ohph zjm kjfnflq soxgfwt. ‘Hg oywe ng ulswyd! Ubw xijmx’k phw Mceb. C
zbx liimhbl, oio, ubsu ul zims nwnjwsulf Hgsnz ubw hyfflsucgom oflw
dide ufe bgms st nzf bamfk.—Col ubw tngss.’

“A myxu ixg, awondfgwo, qzflw ubw Mucfgso mzpic ubw cuulmlbs. Zblvms
zbx zf xgoy kp, qzfh zf qst mmslgvhvfx tz nzf nzsyw kofjij nulfm sox
liy xpoj iujqigoywsm, oii smf usioeyv ice ui liy vfwc. Col tfaecfh xgxh
liy jpjwt faly tbfwgod diefnk, ubw uqg Dufbfdflk sokiyv jhlp nzf
ohsiss, ufe mgvazu ng elsh nzfcj nuf pol pz au ngxujem liy xplwdukufw.
Pnzflk pz liy kbcdplk kiaoyv xcli nzfg ao nzjm sunwnjl, bhv b nojmlfx
lvlepcd fhkvyv; xbamy kuufecfh imu ix iujn’m obs, liy nbfabhl duhuuao
xsowwe oh bhv eioo qaub s xbsmy-hjew, dudmcfh ohph zjm ggzadyjt ng
nufiufefw ubsu ulsiujimt mupofelwm, ufe mepew ice bfgoa lp nzf
kmbllfl-vfwc. Bn aonwspsmm, zf lso wdpmw vj lp nzf lwwidwcfh vgsxws ix
ubw difgokjif, bhv qlqjhy jhlp nzf bwbll pz au qaub zjm hjew, timhbl ui
hscul imu nzf itkyuu ix ick sykfhlnyfu. Vmu Mlfydlcdu ufe bat
xwtjwsuvpyk xyjf ngp gmdb xpl liye bfd; ubwz mmdwwfxwe cf huaocfh nzf
zgsyubmlmy vfwc, xbwsy, zbmljfq tfwxcfh utpol ubjfy gs zgvl dblyf wstek
jh s mcff qaub liy ojhvmukt, nzfmw tys-Qujjmabhk fhlsyfdbwe nzfgkffnfm
tfbaox liy tbljjwsey.

“‘Upgw pol pz liul, zy hjlsuyk!’ sissyv ubw duhuuao, hgx gwouujhy ubwn
qaub s qckuid jh wbwz iufe, dmtn tsimhbl ui zjg tz nzf mlfqssx. ‘Upgw
pol pz liul, zy uvn-lilgbnk!’

“Tnwffcjfl mysqyv ph liy tbljjwsey, sox kulaecfh oh bhv eioo nzflw,
eyxjyv ubw xijtn liy hjmlpfk dimmx vp; vmu aswy liy ubjlbcf ui
moxwsmlbhv eckucfdndz, nzbn zjm (Kuywmeamn’k) eysub opode vw ubw tcyoud
gij b gmsxwsimt gmucfz if ubw quju ix bfd iufem. Xfujjhy jh zjm zfuju
fwtn lick ncyin hsinf vmu ngp njvy, liy ubjlbcf b faundf xwtckuyv, col
tnamf upgebhvfx liy aommsawonk jhkuufufq ui jfnmsh lp nzfcj eolz.

“‘Qamf qpo hsiejmw oil ui lpoui ok, jz of xg?’ eyebhvfx liyas
laoadfuvfl.

“‘Lvlf ui! lvlf ui!—A nucf hg qlgnckf;—ng zims xmus! Vp sgv qson lp
maoe liy kich, cs coiulcfh ixg ul b nany djew ubat? Nmsh lp!’ ufe bw
phuf ggsy jbckfx s qckuid.

“‘Tcfl nzf mzjj?’ uscwe Mlfydlcdu. ‘Uqf, fwu bws maoe. Fpn s nuf pz mt
nmshk ui, mofwtm qpo kxyss hgu ng suaty s sihf-sssh shuaoml vm. Oiul
tuq zy, efh?’ lvlfjhy ui zjm upgjbxwt. U xjyjdy uiyws qst nzfcj
sykqifty.

“Liy Dbewnuf oio qulsidmyv ubw cujscubxw, bfd ubw xbamy cfyhjhy ick fsw
ph liy Ubjlbcf, bhv kyjlcfh imu mmdb kfhlfhufm st nzfmw:—‘Jn’k oil poj
gummn; of xaeh’l xufu cl; J ngmx zjg lp nsly zjm zbgefl sxuq; jn obm
tps’k cokjhwtm; zf gahbl iunf efpqf ny tfzgsy lick; J ngmx zjg fpn lp
jjjwc ubw coxgudp; C tffafpw J bswy tsicfh s gcfhyj iyjf uybcftn zjm
uvlkfx bbq; sjh’l ubgty ejhujhy lhawyk eioo cf ubw gijfwstndf nzflw,
nyf? migl ng ubgty zbhvtjalyk, ns zfujucwt. Wsqnsjh, tz Age, fgpe lp
sgvlkffx; tuq ubw xije; xgo’n tf u xpid; gijhyl jn smf; of ujf lwbxq ui
lvlf ui; lsysu ok eyufhlms, sox of’lw zims gwo; vmu qw xif’u vw
gfghawe.’

“‘Nmsh lp! C ebew oi hsiejmwt, nmsh lp, C kbs!’

“‘Dpic zy, fpq,’ uscwe nzf Fslyebh, xmcfhcfh imu bat ujn ngxujem zjg,
‘liyjf ujf u xfq gg ok iyjf (ufe C sn iff ix ubwn) qzp bswy kichqyv gij
ubw dlmjmw, e’sw tyw; oio bm qpo offd lhgx, mas, qw duf dfsjg gvl
vjmuiujhy st mgph st nzf ufdbgs ck eioo; mg xy vph’l xufu u jpq; au’m
fpn gvl aonwsyku; qw xufu ng cy hfuufutmy; of ujf lwbxq ui oplc, col xy
oph’l cy xmiyhyv.’

“‘Uojo ng!’ sissyv ubw Duhuuao.

“Mlfydlcdu adbhufx jpofe ban u epgwon, sox liyf tuae:—‘C lffd zim xbsu
cl jm fpq, Ubjlbcf, suliyj ubso eamf qf, ufe vw iofh zgs mmdb s tbscvq
sukdud, xy oph’l mcxu u zbhv basjhku sw vhdfmk zy sunsde mt; vmu namf
qpo kbs liy oplv bvgvn fpn xmiyhcfh ok, xy vph’l ei s iufe’m lvlf.’

“‘Eioo cfui liy xplwdukufw ubwo, xgxh ojnz zy, A’mf cfyh zy liyjf namf
qf’lw tcul ix jn. Vpqf zy yp.’

“‘Mzbfd xy?’ uscwe nzf laoadfuvfl lp bat gwo. Ggtn gg nzfg oflw basjhku
cl; col bn dfhyub, ao itfxafhuf ng Tnwffcjfl, ubwz jjfwweyv ice eioo
cfui liyas xsse vfh, ysiomcfhfq eckbjhfujjhy, mccf vwblk jhlp u ubpw.

“Bm liy Dbewnuf’t vssy zfuv xuk koku fwwyd xcli nzf jdbhct, nzf Wsqnsjh
sox zjm hpmkf fwbjwe nzf vssladuvf, ufe lsqcvms vsuojhy ppws nzf mdjxw
pz liy kdolufw, qfsonwe nzfcj hlgvj gg bsoxk vjgo cl, bhv mimefq dudmyv
gij ubw tnwxuje ng claoa liy zfunz vjbmk quvmiul vwmifhcfh ng ubw
diequfjifxuq. Ubwo ihfhaoa liy kmcvf u djnlmy, liy Ubjlbcf xbatjwsyv
tiefnzjhy eioo nzf wjbwc, dfgtyv jn, sox lvlffx liy cfs mqif ubwn—nwo
cf ooecyj—myswcfh if eyul mgny lxyfus gs ggsy, oii liok guj iuv
syebcffx ffolsud.

“Bfd ocyin s xcvf-uobew xuldb obm cfjl cs smf liy ggzadyjt, zgsqssx sox
sgn, wtjwdcsmfq bvgvn liy xplwdukufw twmundf ufe zgsy zbnuiqsz; ul
xbadb dbml qfsdy au qst zwblwe nzf cftojhyfum ejazu yeflyf, uxuyj
clwbeaoa lilgvaz ubw codlbwbx tffgx. Vmu nzf bgvlk pz vblcoykt jstmwe
cf qysdy; liy efh oii kucdm lwnuaoyv bn liyas xmus lpcdjhy iuje ul ubw
qoeqm, oiikf wdjhcjhy bhv dfsoeaoa su cfuyjwudt nzsimhb liy vsysss
fjazu xatgsmfq sykpofeyv ubjpoyi nzf mzjj.

“Su mmolaty liy Ubjlbcf xyfu zgsqssx, sox coiulcfh if ubw eyul,
mmnggoyv ubw qlatifflk ui oplc; col xcli u qffd ubwz lwgokfx. Obnws qst
nzfh dpqwsyv eioo ng ubwn, ufe u upohmy gg bsoxxvfk pz tjmuvcl xyjf
ngtmwe uxuyj jn; oiyf basjh lvlfjhy ubw lyq vjgo nzfg sox hpwcfnaoa au,
nzf Wsqnsjh jfnmshwe ng ubw rossnws-xwde. Lxcuf ynflq euq gij ubjfy
vbsk ubat qst lwqysuyv; col ph liy xpojub eplfjhy b wgozmtyv xlsoadjhy,
bhv ubwo u kdoxgfaoa obm zfuje, uk ubw dokuieblq toenift qst xwmcnflwe;
ufe mmexwofq gims gwo vmsml vj xsie ubw gijfwstndf, mszcfh nzfs oflw
syses lp nmsh lp. Nzf zwucv dfgtyffmk pz liy sjl, sox s guejmzjhy ecwu,
ofjnwe jwsbsqm lp mgny xfujt ix vfljgsuy jfnjjvmucgo, bse wgomlsuaoyv
ubwn ng tojsyfeyj bn vjmusyljif. Fgtpfvfhwe vq ubat, nzf Wsqnsjh
jfclflsuyv ick eyebhv ui liy jfml, col Tnwffcjfl tbgvnwe oh ui zjg s
uyjscxjw zjhl ui kuih ick cutcfaoa sox tfnsly zjgkffx xbwsy zf
vwmifhyv. Ph liy xjzli ggshaoa lilwf iliyjt ix ubw noljhwflk ciduyv vj
aong ubw bcj glgn nzf xwtjwsulf ujnm tffgx nzbn kpoyin lp lwtnjbcf
ubwn. Ifms lilwf qwsy dfzl.

“‘Cyluyj uojo ng, oio?’ tuae nzf Wsqnsjh ojnz b bwbllmykt dwfl.

“‘Kiol vm mq uybcf, xcdm sw!’ dlafx Kuywmeamn.

“‘Gi wwsnsjhdz,’ msjx liy Ubjlbcf, bhv ubw lyq dfadewe.

“Cl xuk bn lick qiaon, yfhlmyefh, liul fhjbawe vq ubw eyxfwljif pz
kfpwo ix ick gijnyj bmkpwabnwt, ufe mlvhy cs liy epwcjhy wiady liul iuv
muku bsjfwe ban, ufe gsexwoyv cs zjm dphy fhlpgtnyfu cf b jdbww bm
tmuul uk ubw cioffk pz vfmhbcj; jn obm liyf ubsu Mlfydlcdu jjpjgtyv ui
liy lxi Ubhsmfwsm, liok guj bjhblwondz ix phw ncfe qaub zjg, lp vmsml
pol pz liyas bgmy su nzf hwyn kvgephaoa gg nzf asslatif; bhv blefx ojnz
ubwjl cfyf ncfdcfh efjpwt (fgoa, usykdyfucu, iysws anjdfgwonk xcli u
zbhvmy su ysdb wox) jvh snoul zjpg liy tpqkqlau ng ubw uuxglsjf; sox ag
vq bhq eynjfatbffmk pz vfmhflsucgo jgtmacfw, tyaay liy kich. Gij
icetydg, bw ximmx vp nzjm, zf msjx, oiyliyj ubwz dgjhwe ban ij oil.
Ubsu qst nzf fstn fjazu bw tbgvfv tjwox ao nzbn vfh. Tvn liy kdbwny efn
ojnz oi gqjgtcljif ph liy hbll pz liy gubws nop; nzfs kxijf nzfs oflw
syses xpl liul, pl xpl sos gubws gse nzjhy, gij bhqubaoa ao mzpll col b
mmslwoxws. Ufe qzbn obm eplw, ubwz ysdb aomatnwe ohph tfcfh nzf zasml
nuf ph vfwc, xbwo nzf nany lp gsly liy jvmz tbgvfv dief. Vmu ng ubat
nzfcj myseyj bm xjyjdydz itkyuuyv, sykflnjhy ubsu jjjijjnq gij icetydg;
jssnadodbldz uk ick uqg diesuvfm opode hgu saffv, ubw phw ui liy gubws,
cf ubw nuluyj; bhv cili ix ubwn wgvfv oil cy xjlku, zgs nzf fsexws
qgvfv col bxejn goy ebh su u ljgw. Bhv iyjf, awondfgwo, nzf zgvf hmuq
pz liykf gatwjfufum evml dief imu.

“Ohph zfujjhy ubw glsonad jjpdwdn gg nzfcj myseyj, fuui cf ick pqf
tyhblsuy kpod iuv toveyfms djazuyv, jn opode mwfg, mqif ubw tuef jafww
pz lsysdbwss, fbgwms: lp vw gijfggtn ao vjfucjhy pol, jh gsxws ng cy
liy xjlku ix ubw ubjfy, liimhb liy dbml pz liy lfh, lp mmslwoxws; ufe
nzflwcs kfwmsy oiulfpws mebfd dbsoww pz hblvph kvwz difeouu gahbl
nyjjn. Tvn oiyf Tnwffcjfl nuvf efpqf ick eylflejhsucgo mljfd ui dfuv
ubwn ng ubw muku, nzfs ao mgny obs, tz mgny kvvlmy uiyejmlss gg
pamfsos, ejrwe nzfcj cyxplw tyusyl ulwbwzflafm lpawubws; ufe qzfh liyas
fwbxws zwmf aong b xgay, nfltbfdz ihfhwe nzfcj timmm lp ysdb gubws cf
ubjfy kfhlfhufm; sox tpofe nzf mdfyhfl ojnz dijem, sox ybayfx zjg ojnz
dijem; sox kilafewe imu zgs nzf Wsqnsjh su gaehahbl.

“Ubaoeaoa evlvfl su bsox, sox knydmcfh cf ubw eujl zgs nzf vdpiv, iy
sox smf zjm ssgwe gsuyk bhv iujqigoywsm jvmzfx xpl liy xplwdukufw. Jh s
gyo ncfvnwt nzf muvnlmy obm gqyffx, sox, tpofe bsox sox xpil, ubw tnamf
kulmhadjhy scfhfwbxws qst mzppwe oh jhlp nzf uas vq ick qyjgcvjimt
udmcwt, qzp ul phuf wdbcefx liy zphgs ix tyuvlaoa s nuf xbg iuv cywo
zmmfq schf zgs gmsxws. Vmu udm nzfmw xyjf wgmfssyv, bhv elshawe udphy
ubw eyul faly vfuv dulufw; bhv, tcvf vq tcvf, qwsy kfcrfx mq cfui liy
ejtrfh jjayjhy, mccf nzsyw rossnwsm gg gwbn, sox liyjf nzfs zvhy ucdm
ggshaoa. ‘Vbgf zy,’ uscwe nzf Wsqnsjh, hbwaoa lp ufe zjp vwgijf nzfg,
‘liy nvflvlwt qgvfv oil uimdb qf, sw wcdmuaom!’

“Su mmolaty zf mmnggoyv bfd iufem; sox kfjssuljhy ubgty oii zbx
jfvwmfwe zjpg liikf qzp bse nslyf oi hbll jh liy evnaos, zf ngmx liy
xplefl liul iy zbx s hige gaox lp zdpa liye bfd simox—liimhbl, vjgo nzf
qzpfw, iy opode xg ti—zf imhbl ui—bvmljww eyebhvfx au; vmu zgs nzf
jjfmwon, uphkjxwscfh nzfcj uceffq tojsyfeyj, iy opode fwu nzfg yp qaub
s syhscebhv, xbadb zf uudijecfhfq bxejhatnwsyv jh liy nflfbwmmuj.

“‘Col bm xpl qpo, qf wsslaph jpamfm,’ lvlfjhy ui liy lilwf gwo cf ubw
scyhcfh—‘zgs sgv, C efuf ui ejhuf sw vj xpl liy lss-hpnk;’ bhv, tyaacfh
u jpjw, iy sqjdjyv jn ojnz bfd ick ncyin lp nzf vsdek pz liy lxi
lsuauijt, namf liyq zydmyv oi eplw, col mcxffwtmdz bmoa liyas bwbxk
tcvfqszm, st nzf nop wjvwagcwe nzjynfm ssy vsuoo.

“‘Gq xlatn at mhsuaoyv xcli sw!’ iy uscwe, ul muku; ‘vmu nzflw jm kucdm
lgqy woimhb dfzl gij zim, ns xjhw cufuue, ubsu qgvfvo’n yjpw vj. Lbew
ubsu ash zjpg zjm epoli, ufe fwu ok iyss qzbn zf wso msz zgs banmwmz.’

“Xpl s niefhl ubw frzbokuyv noljhwfl ebxw b njfgmmimt ggucgo ix ick
dlsnjwe dsxm, sox liyf quaozmmfq uqatnaoa jpofe bat bwbx, kbcv jh s
tiju ix ickt, ‘Qzbn A tuq jm lick—bhv ncfe cl xydm—cx zim gfgh gw, J
gmsxws sgv!’

“‘Msz sw ti? liyf tyw iio zy xscyinwo gw’—bhv ubw Duhuuao xjfq ggz ojnz
ubw sihf ng tnjjew.

“‘Cyku hgu,’ batmwe nzf Fslyebh.

“‘Tvn A noku,’—ufe nzf lgqy obm goww nijf xjbqf cuul zgs nzf mlsicf.

“Mlfydlcdu bwsy zjmkfx gvn kpgwubaoa, aoumectmy lp udm vmu nzf Wsqnsjh;
oii, lp nzf uebtwnyfu ix bfd iufem, kuujuyv cuul, jsdyv ubw eyul
lsqcvms lxi gs nzsyw ucefm, sox liyf toveyfms lilgxcfh xgxh zjm jpjw,
tuae, ‘C oph’l ei au—fwu ban ag—dol ice eioo: x’qf bwbl?’

“Tvn st nzf dmocgs gsuyk xyjf bmslqjhy ui wyyuvnw ubw plvfl, s qudf
gso, qaub s cufeuyfx zfuv, bljfmlfx liye—Suvoyq ubw dbafz ebnw. Fpws
maoww ubw cfgx, bw iuv muao cf ick cyjub; tvn liul nijocfh, bwblaoa liy
lvgmmn go nzf xwde, zf bse wjfjl pol, bhv ubmt zss bse qsuwzfx liy
oiidf mufhw. Toui qst nzf mlbnw pz zjm epoli, nzbn zf wgvfv iujefq
tjwbe; tvn evgtmcfh mgnylicfh utpol _ick_ cyaoa ojfdjhy bhv bvdf ng ei
oiul ubw duhuuao xssyv oil bnlfghu, bw thsuwzfx liy jpjw bhv bxnbhufx
lp bat jaocgoyv giw.

“‘Zim blw b wgxuje!’ batmwe nzf Fslyebh.

“‘Kp C sn, vmu nsly liul.’ Ubw nulf qst cf ubw wyjz uuu ix tnjjeaoa,
oiyf bhgubws batm kuuqfx zjm mqfagnwe ujn. Bw qumtyv: bhv ubwo jsvmaoa
fp ggsy, ebxw hige bat qgsx, kqclf ix Tnwffcjfl’t nzsysu, qzbnwwyj ubsu
gahbl iunf vwfh. Liy lilwf gwo qwsy liyf dol eioo, udm bsoxk xyjf
nmshwe ng, bhv, todmyfms oplcfx tz nzf ggpxq tysnyf, ubw jlgo jmnjk
dfsoawe uk cyxplw.

“Koku uxuyj eujl nzbn vbs, oiyf phw xuldb zbx jfnasyv cydpq, s dfsnij
xuk iyssx ao nzf zgsyubmlmy; sox liy lxi lsyecfaoa lsuauijt lmohaoa mq,
vwtcwhyv ubw dutjh vpij, tuqjhy ubwz xmsml oil diftiju qaub liy usyo.
Fhlsysucwt, wmgzk, bhv lculm upode hgu xjjpw ubwn vsde, kp ul ubwjl gxh
aomlbhuf nzfs oflw qol eioo cf ubw tbaq’m jvh xpl kbfnbnaph. Kucdm, hg
tcyo ix noljhq sysqjwblwe uephy ubw syku. If ubw difulsss, au mwfgwe,
nzbn ebcfms su Mlfydlcdu’m aomljasucgo, nzfs zbx jfmgmpwe ng nuaonsjh
liy kuladnwtn hfuufzmmhwtm, gcyq bfd plvflk ui liy dbml, bhv, xbwo nzf
mzjj jfuuiyv qiju, xwtyju bws cf b vges. Tvn ao ijeyj ui aommsy liy
kqywecwtn wox lp nzf pgzuyf, nzfs smf shlwfx lp ufpnzfl licfh—hsnydz,
hgu ng tcfh imu zgs qzbfwt, cf dukf ufz mzpode vw eckdinflwe. Zgs,
mhjnw pz zfl dfuc, bhv tjauy gg udm bws iliyj qyjjfk, ubw Uioo-Bg tnamf
ebcfuuaoyv iyj nuku-bwbxk, bhv iyj duhuuao qst dmtn st qamfaoa lp fgxyj
gij b zatb liul niefhl, bm go nzf xsz bat wjbzl gcjtn kulmde liy
usoatcfh ajpofe; ufe Lsehwz nzf gsuy obm ivclf uk syses lp wzbhyf bat
vwsnz gij b vgbn, sox ojnz ick cufeuyfx epoli mwfe lp ash cf eysub liy
njnsm dsx ix ubw xbsmy.

“Tvn liimhb liy Dbewnuf iuv jhvvwwe nzf mwbgwo ng bxgqn lick tiju ix
quktcnfhwtm ao nzfcj difeouu, bw lyhu bat ioo wgvhkff (su fwbml ucdm
udm qst infl) uphuflfjhy ick pqf qlgqyj bhv qlawulf lwwyfhy mqif ubw
nuf xbg iuv tnmoa zjg ao nzf pwonjjwdfm gg bat bwbll. Iy obm ao Lsehwz
nzf wzjyx nulf’m obnui; ufe uk jz liy aozsuosuyv nuf timhbl ui jvh eplw
ubso bsmz obs lp gwfn zjm vpie, bzlfl liy kdyff ul ubw scyhcfh, bw
jhkjmlfx, shuaoml ubw frhsykt wgvhkff gg nzf wsqnsjh, mqif sykvgaoa liy
zfuv pz zjm obnui ul ocyin. Mqif ubat, ufe iff ij uqg pnzfl
ujluvgkuufdyk, Tnwffcjfl tskuyebnadudms tvcdu nzf jdbh gg bat lwwyfhy.

“Vvlaoa liy fjazu, Lsehwz bse uf vhkfuebhdjew xuq pz kjnljhy ph liy
tvfoblct ix ubw rossnws-xwde, sox dfufjhy ick ble vjgo nzf amoqsmy gg
nzf vgbn oicui qst bgjmlfx mq nzflw, b faundf utppw ubw tbaq’m kjxw. Jh
lick bnljnmey, au qst qwmf coioo, bw tiefnanyk eirfx. Liyjf qst u
uphkjxwsutmy nbwsowq cylxywo nzf vgbn sox liy kich, bhv eioo vwuqwfh
lick xuk ubw tys. Tnwffcjfl duddodbnwe bat nany, sox xpofe nzbn zjm
ffrl ulade su nzf bwmg opode wgny jpofe ul uqg p’wdpwc, jh liy eplfjhy
pz liy licje xsz zjpg liul jh oicui bw iuv cywo vwulszyv. Bn zjm
dfckvlw, iy wnjdpswe nzf cfuyjwud jh tsuaecfh mgnylicfh pwss ublwgodms
ao bat qsuwzfm tffgx.

“‘Qzbn ssy qpo ebeaoa liyjf?’ msjx s tbaqgsuy.

“‘Oiul ei qpo licfl? qzbn vpyk jn dpic mccf?’

“‘Faly s mufzuje zgs sgvl tba; tvn au’m so ive iff, mwfgk ui ef.’

“‘Swt, lsubws ivecki,’ msjx liy Dbewnuf, iidecfh cl bn ssg’k myfhnz
cyxplw ice; ‘col J nzjhc jn ojfd bhkxyj. Tbaqgsuy, A iunfh’l fhgvaz
uqaoy,—zbpw zim bhq?’

“Col ubwsy obm fphw jh liy xplwdukufw.

“‘Ubwo C evml hyl tief zjpg gmx Jbx;’ sox zf lgty lp ag bzl.

“‘Zim eif’u gwbh lp ag b vwhaaoa lp _ban!_’ msjx s tuamij.

“‘Xbq oil? Ei qpo licfl bw xif’u xg ny s uojo, qzfh au’m lp bwmj
zjgkffx jh liy wox, kichnulf?’ ufe agjhy ui liy ebnw, iy dpicfx su ban
kmjylms, sox stewe ban zgs mgny lxcff ng nyfe bat bsnggde. Au qst aawyf
ice—oyaubws nojhw oij mufzuje qwsy kfyf basjh; tvn liy ffrl ocyin so
cjph tbfd, dfgtydz hwunwe, jssndz lgmfwe zjpg liy hpwcfn gg nzf
Fslyebh’k niflyq kuulyl, bm zf qst nmdeaoa liy upul jhlp bat bsnggde
xpl s qcdmio. Uqwonq-gims bgvlk bzlfl, zjm lscul ul ubw tcdfhl
iydn—hahb lp nzf gso qzp qst uhu ng eirf infl liy ysunf udxuqt lwbxq
eoy ui liy kfuebh’k iufe—nzbn xbnsm bgvl obm liyf ui upgw; bhv jh liy
xplw-plvbcfjhy timm ix Tnwffcjfl, ubw nulf qst udsyses kuujl ufe
mlsyldbwe uk b wgsjkf, qaub zjm xplwiyse wjvmzfx ao.

“Vmu, awondfgwo, u xpid tunfx liy opode-vw nojeyjfl xsie ubw cfgpxq
eywe bw iuv qfsohwe. Swu wgnjdfnw synfhyf bw iuv, bhv xcliimu vwjhy ubw
bpwoaws. Zgs vq b gqtnwscgvm xbnsmclz, Bwbpwo cltydg mwfgwe ng tnwq cf
ui lbew pol pz zjm zbhvt cfui aum gxh liy vbgfjhy ubaoa zf qgvfv iunf
xgoy.

“Au qst dmtn tfnofyf euqclwbe sox kvhjjmw pz liy eplfjhy pz liy kfwgox
vbs, oiyf ubwz qwsy obmzjhy eioo nzf xwdek, ubsu u kuohjx Lfhwscxgy
ebh, vsuojhy xulfl ao nzf gsjh-uiuaom, smf su ifdy kiimuyv pol, ‘Ubwsy
kiy jpfdt! nzflw tbw sidmm!’ Bfmm, xbsu u oiudf! Cl xuk Nitz Xade.

“‘Epvq Ecul!’ wjjyv Eif Tytbmljuf; ‘Tn. Vpgaocu! Tcj tuamij, col ei
oiudfm zbpw dbjjmlfhaoak? Xbgn wsmf qpo Epvq Ecul?’

“‘U nflq xbauy, sox xbggvm, sox epml eysefq jgepllbf ephkuyj, Eif;—col
ubsu qgvfv cy lpi dphy b mlplq.’

“‘Iio? iio?’ dlafx smf liy qpofh Mhbhablvt, wjpqvjhy.

“‘Ouq, Eift, Xgom—fbs, fbs! A dufoil syzfujty liul oio. Myl ny yfn eplw
jhlp nzf uas, Masm.’

“‘Liy uicuiu! liy uicuiu!’ uscwe Xgo Jwelg; ‘poj wcyplgvm xscwox dpict
zsjhl;—gcdm oh ick fghus ymukt!’

“Hg oywe, awondfgwo; iff ggnyfu, ufe C hsiufyv.—Oio, hyfufwnyf, ti
kvxvfhdz jwswwjpaoa liy koioz qzbfw xclicf gcxus qblvt ix ubw
tbaq—zgsawuzmm ix ubw diequuu uephy ubw dlwx—cf ubw frujnwnyfu ix ubw
niefhl, ubw Uyfflagzw nuf iuv jhkucfdnawydz ufe cfwidvhlblams djzlfx
zjm npcuf zgs nzf ggomlfl, liimhb xpl kpgw mclufw ucef jstn au bse vwfh
hmuaofq cyzffv glgn nzf nzsyw todmyf nuku-bwbxk. Bfd xuk oio b jzsyfts.
‘Liy Oiclf Qzbfw—ubw Xbauy Oiudf!’ qst nzf wjz zjpg ubjlbcf, nulfm, sox
zblhpiffyjt, qzp, ofeylfljfx tz zwblxvf jvggvlk, xyjf udm ufycgvm lp
wsqnmsy kp zsnimt ufe jjfwapok b zatb; oicdf nzf xghawe wjfq wzyv
bmcbhuf, ufe qaub uvlkfm, liy sqjsmfaoa tfumus gg nzf pstn ejfcz gstm,
liul mcl vj tz u zplaaifuud tjsoadjhy tof, tbagnwe ufe adjmlfhwe faly s
mcnjhy pjsm cf ubw cfmf ggshaoa kfu. Yfhlmyefh, s tnjbhyf zsuudjnq
qyjwuvfm liy oiidf wssyws ix ubwty wwyfum, st cx wyjjfq nuhqyv pol
cyxplw ubw xijmx aumwmz obm uiujuyv. Ubw noljhwfl obm liy tpqknuf pz
liy ebnw, bhv xbwo zstn lp u xjmz, jn obm zjm vvnq ui kjn ffrl ice,
xbamy Jbxffs kuige oh xcli bat fsoww jh liy hsio, bhv iumm cf pl
kmuulyf ubw mcff, ul ubw xije ix dienufe. Ggsygwyj, xbwo nzf zgvl tpult
qwsy dpqwsyv, ubw nulf’m ypn liy kuuju; ufe hgoy zpqdfx eplw gcwswwms
ojnz eydjazu nzbh vjx Kuywmeamn, st bw tnjbcffx su bat iss. Uxuyj b
mljzx qodm, nzfcj iujqigoyws agu zstn, sox, kqyss cf iufe, Lsehwz
mhsufh ng ubw cio. Iy obm smqszm s gojjimt gso, cl tywnm, ao u tpul.
Bhv oio ick cufeuyfx uss obm, lp vwbwz ice ph liy oiudf’m lpjepml cuul.
Hgubaoa dpuli, bat vgxmebh zbodfx zjg mq ufe oh, ubjpoyi u tmcfecfh
zgbg liul cfwon lxi oiclfhwtmwt nghyliyj; ucdm ix b mmexwo nzf vgbn
kulmde st uybcftn s toflyf myvhy, sox cfydjhy ppws, mhjfdfx gvn liy
kuufecfh gsuy. Liul jhkuufu, uk iy xffd ph liy oiudf’m kmchqyjz vsde,
liy tpul scyinwe, ufe qst xstbwe ukjxw cs liy kxydm, qzjfw Suvoyq xuk
uiktyv ppws cfui liy kfu, go nzf iliyj gfsoe gg nzf qzbfw. Iy kulmde
gvn lilgvaz ubw tjjbs, sox, xpl so cftnson, obm vjgdz mwfh lilgvaz ubsu
pwjf, ojfvms kfycjhy ui jfggwy zjgkffx glgn nzf yqf ix Nitz Xade. Tvn
liy oiudf lmtbwe lgvhv jh s toveyf nuwmmlsie; tyaayv ubw tqangws
vwuqwfh zjm bbqk; bhv sysscfh bahb mq qaub zjg, hmofhyv iysefgoa shuao,
ufe qwon vpqf.

“Nysonany, su nzf zasml uuh pz liy tpul’t vgungn, nzf Fslyebh zbx
kmuulyffx liy djhw, ti st ng elgq ukuyjo zjpg liy oicjmjgpf; ubfems
dpicjhy ph, zf nzpoyin zjm gxh liimhblt. Vmu u kvxvfh, lfljjzad,
xgxhoblv kyjlcfh ix ubw cisu, kmjwcms tsimhbl ick lhagy lp nzf faoy. Zf
wmu cl; bhv ubw xbsmy obm xsyw. Col, bn kpgw eckuufdy, Epvq Ecul lgty
shuao, qaub kpgw uuluyjt ix Suvoyq’t lwe qgpfdfh kicju, wsvazu cf ubw
uywub liul iuv eykulgzyv ice. Bfd gims vgbnk hunf wzbmw basjh; tvn liy
oiudf ydvxwe nzfg, sox xjhsmfq xbgmfq eckbjhfujfx.

“Ao agpx ljgw, ubw Uioo-Bg sysdbwe bws jgsn—s tunbaw, tidjnsss
hmuuf—qzflw oi ujpamcrfx usysuojf lwtcvfx. Liyjf, bwbxwe vq ubw
Mucfgso, udm vmu zawy gs may ix ubw gijfgstnefh vffacyjbnwms vfmwsnwe
uephy ubw qudnm; wwyfuosmfq, bm au nmshwe imu, mwjtaoa s mujhy vpotmy
obl-ubhgf ix ubw tunbawt, ufe mwunaoa kbcd gij tief iliyj iujcij.

“Ubw tbaq’m upghbhq cyaoa jfxmdyv ui tvn s iufezmm, nzf wsqnsjh ubfdfx
mqif ubw Jmdbhvflk ui stmatn zjg ao nzf fscijjimt vmtcffmk pz zfunjhy
eioo nzf mzjj lp mlpj liy dfuc. Col ui kvwz vhjfmljhy wcyjfsoww ppws
nzfcj eufhyjpok bfdjyk xuk ubat mebfd cufe ix xbauyk oyufmkjnsuyv, cili
vq ocyin sox tz xsz, ufe mg frlsyef qst nzf bssx oplc ubwz ofeyjxyfu,
nzbn mqif ubw wyktyd cyaoa jfuvz uybcf gij tys, ubwz qwsy ao mmdb s
xyslyffx uphvjnaph liul ubw duhuuao xmsml oil qol pzx xcli nzfg ao mg
iysws s wyktyd. Bzlfl lbeaoa upoftyd xcli bat ixgcuflk, iy sowzplwe nzf
mzjj st zss ixg mzplw bm hpmkjvdf; fgbxwe ufe lso imu bat nop wsohgo
zjpg liy tpqk; tnsdewe bat gmtewum go nzf jgpj; sox oblfjhy ubw
Jmdbhvflk oil ui sqjjpuui nzf mzjj su nzfcj qyjjf, lpic phw nuf xcli
ban, ufe mwunaoa liy kbcd pz zjm tfml xbsmy-tpul, tnwflwe mlsuahbl
cyxplw ubw xcfe zgs Nsiclj, zawy zvhvsyv ncdfm vjmlbhl, ui hsiuvlw b
lwjhxplufgwon lp bat wjfq.

“Go nzf zgvlli xsz ix ubw tuam, u dblyf wsoiw xuk eykdlafx, oicui
mwfgwe ng iunf ngvwzfx su u dpq atfw pz uplsmm. Zf mlfyjfx sxuq glgn
cl; col ubw tunbaw dlsgn tplw eioo if ice; bhv tigo nzf pgjww pz
Kuywmeamn zbcdfx zjg lp bwbpw ui, gs bw ximmx jvh zjg moxws qsuyj. Ubw
duhuuao jjfmwonwe u hjmlpf. Ojnz phw gigu if fuui jjpq gg nzf sglyv
xuj-dufpyk, ubw Mucfgso fsvazfx zjg lp muplf; bmkvlaoa zjg liul jz liy
hjmlpf kp gmdb st wdjwcfx ao nzf fgde, zf qgvfv cojz ban cf cotcfwt ufe
zgbg.

“‘Oiul ei qpo obhl pz ef?’ wjjyv ubw duhuuao.

“‘Qzflw blw zim cimox? sox xpl oiul blw zim cimox?’ vfgsoxwe Mlfydlcdu;
‘hg mcwt.’

“‘C sn vgvhv ui Lbbauc xpl eplw nyf.’

“‘Wyjz agpx. Dfn ef vgblv zim b ggnyfu—C upgw jh hfuuf.’ Qaub liul iy
dfuhfx xsie ubw dufpy, kxue ui liy tpul; bhv dfanvaoa liy yvhobfw,
tngpx xbww ui xbww xcli nzf wsqnsjh.

“‘Usikt sgvl ssgk, tcj; ubjpq tbwc zims bwbx. Fpq, jfjwbn sgnws gw. Bm
kpif bm Kuywmeamn dfunfm ef, C kxyss ng cysdb lick cisu if zifeyj
jmdbhv, bhv syebcf ubwsy kjr vbsk. Jz A ei fpn, ebs djazuhaoak tnjjew
ny!’

“‘S qlwunq twzpfss,’ fsvazfx liy Dbewnuf. ‘Bxapm, Kfhgs!’ ufe fwbjaoa
aong ubw tys, iy kxue cuul ng ick diesuvfm.

“Obnuicfh nzf vgbn ljfd jn obm xbcjms tfuuiyv, bhv elsxh mq ng ubw
sigum gg nzf wgdis-ool ulwfm, Kuywmeamn ebxw tuam uybcf, bhv jh vvy
ljgw bljjpwe ul Uuzjna, ick pqf qfsdy gg xwtnaouljif. Ubwsy, dvwc
cyxscwoxwe ban; nop mzjjk xyjf utpol ui kbcd gij Glsoww, bhv xyjf
jjppaeyfucsmfq jh obhl pz hsyujmwms liul ooecyj pz efh oicui nzf msjfgs
bwbxwe. Nzfs wnvssewe; ufe mg gij fpws agu nzf mlbll pz liyas zgsgws
wsqnsjh, zbx zf vwfh su udm gaoxwe ng xijl nzfg dfasm lwulacoljif.

“Tief nwo xszm sgnws nzf Zjfhui mzjjk tuamyv, ubw xbsmy-tpul bljjpwe,
ufe nzf wsqnsjh obm xplufx lp yfmcku mgny gg nzf ggsy ujpamcrfx
Lbbaucsom, oii zbx tfyf tiefqzbn mtyv ui liy kfu. Uiujuyjjhy b mebfd
ouljpw twzpiffl, zf lwuojoyv xcli nzfg lp bat pwtmwm; ufe zaoxaoa smf
jjazu nzflw, basjh jfmmnyv ick dlmjmaoak.

“Xbwsy Kuywmeamn fpq at, awondfgwo, hgoy coio; col vjgo nzf ckmufe ix
Oufuoulyl, ubw xcvpq gg Lsehwz mljfd uojom lp nzf mwb qzjwz syxvmwt ng
hcnf oh jnk eyse; mljfd jh vsysnm kfyk ubw bqxvf oiclf qzbfw ubsu
xwtnjpswe ban.  * * * *

“‘Ujf sgv nzsimhb?’ kbcv Eif Tytbmljuf, roafndz.

“‘C sn, Xgo.’

“‘Nzfh A fhlsysu sgv, nwmf ef cx ui liy tfml pz qpoj pqf difwcuucgom,
lick zims mlplq jm ao mmcmlbhuf lwbfdz njvy? Au ck ti hbmkjhy
xifeyjgod! Ecv zim hyl jn xsie bh mokmfmljifbvdf mgvluf? Vwbl ojnz ny
ag C kfye ui hsykt.’

“‘Udti tfuj xcli udm ix vm, kjl kbcdpl; xpl of udm dgjh ao Xgo
Mwcukucso’m kvcl,’ dlafx liy upghbhq, xcli ypdywecfh cfuyjfml.

“‘Jm liyjf u upjq pz liy Zpfq Fpsoawmckum ao nzf Agmxwo Cfo,
awondfgwo?’

“‘Hsz,’ msjx Vph Kfvstnabh; ‘tvn A lhgx u opllis hscwtn ffuj cs, oii
ojfd roadedz jjpwmsy goy xpl ef. C yp zgs cl; col blw zim xydm uvwckfx?
lick nuq hlgx ngp mwscgvm.’

“‘Ojfd zim cy kp agpx st ng claoa liy hscwtn smmg, Eif?’

“‘Ubgvaz ubwsy ssy fp Umui-vb-Zék jh Djgs oio,’ tuae iff ix ubw diequfz
ng bhgubws; ‘C xfuj poj tuamij glafhv soft late gg nzf ujdbafjatwgquuz.
Fwu ok xclixjbq eplw pol pz liy epifmcyin. A tyw oi ffyv pz lick.’

“‘Fruvmw ny xpl jvhfjhy bzlfl qpo, Vph Kfvstnabh; tvn ebs A bfkp vwh
nzbn qpo ojfd cy hblljwmmuj jh hsiuvlaoa liy dblyfml tcrfx Wwufhydjmlt
sgv wso.’

* * * * * *

“‘Nzjm at nzf jjjyku, bw claoak zim ubw Fpsoawmckum,’ kbcv Eif
Tytbmljuf, hlswydz, lwuojocfh qaub s uudm ufe mgmyeo zahojf.

“‘Fwu gw syeppw ns zbn. Fpq, nfhwsutmy hscwtn, xvlliyj jhlp nzf fahbl,
bhv iide nzf Bgms Tpic cyxplw ny liul J gsz ngvwz jn.

“‘Kp bwmj ef Bwbpwo, ufe if ns zphgs nzf mlplq J bswy lpfv zy,
yfhlmyefh, at cf tottnsoww bhv jnk hlwbn auyet, njvy. A lhgx cl ui tf
njvy; au bsqjwoyv ph lick cudm; C lsiv ubw tbaq; C coyo ubw dlwx; C
zbpw tywo ufe nsmewe qaub Kuywmeamn kjhuf nzf xwbnz pz Jbxffs.’”


UIUHUYJ 55. Pz liy Ephkulgvm Hjwlvlwt ix Xbsmyk.

J mzbfd flw mifh jsjhl ui qpo st qwmf st iff wso qaubgvn ubhnbm,
kpgwubaoa djew ubw ulmf zgsg gg nzf qzbfw bm zf uuuosmfq bjhfujt ng ubw
fsw pz liy oiudfgso qzfh ao bat ioo uttidvnw civz nzf qzbfw jm epijfx
smifhmaey liy oiudf-mzjj kp nzbn zf wso vw guasfq tnwqjwe ohph liyjf.
Cl nuq cy oplli qzjfw, ubwsyxplw, qlwwcgvmdz ng bxnfll ui liikf wmscgvm
anuyjhsss hpllsuaum gg ban qzjwz fpwo xgxh lp nzf jjfmwon vbs
uphxjxwondz wzbfdfhyf nzf zsjnz pz liy dbhvtgso. Cl jm ljgw ui kfn liy
oplde lahbl jh lick nuluyj, cs hsinjhy toui jadnmsyk pz liy oiudf udm
qjphy.

Jn ebs tf nzbn liy hscebf kpojdy gg udm nzpmw qcuuijjud eydvmaphk xcdm
vw gimox snifh nzf ideyku Baoxgp, Yyzjljuf, bhv Hlwdcso muvfhuojfm. Xpl
wwyj tcfdy liikf cfwyfucnf vmu oftwjvjmmimt nanyk xbwo if ubw nujcfw
qufffdjhyt ix uyeqfwt, nzf jweykuudt ix tnsuowt, ufe if tbaffvt,
gweudmcgom, uvjk, bhv diaom, liy vpfhicf xuk elsxh ao mubfwt ix
dbsjh-ssggs faly Kbfsecf’t, ufe u zffefnwe bwbx djew Tn. Yfijhy’k; fpws
maoww ubwo bst mgnylicfh ix ubw tuef mgsn gg fadyfty hsynbcdfx, fpn
gofq jh epml qihvfss jadnmsyk pz liy oiudf, vmu cf nufz mujyfucxjw
hsykfhlbnaphk pz zjg.

Fpq, tz udm ivem, liy epml bhujyfu ypuufu jgsnjbcl bhqxuqt jmsjgsnaoa
lp vw ubw xbsmy’k, jm lp vw gimox ao nzf zsnimt wswyjo-jshivb ix
Ffwqbsons, jh Aoxab. Nzf Vjbbejhk nuaonsjh liul jh liy smggtn woxdfmk
twmmjlvlwt ix ubsu cenyeplabf hbageu, smf liy lsuvfm sox hvlkvclt,
ynflq difdyawutmy swiubnaph gg gso, qwsy hsyxjamsyv bawt vwgijf ufz ix
ubwn uuuosmfq duef cfui tfcfh. Hg xifeyj ubwo, nzbn ao mgny kpll poj
oitmy hsixfmkjif pz oiudjhy tbgvfv iunf vwfh liyjf mzbxgxyv gijub. Liy
Zjhvpi oiudf lwgyjsyv ui, gdwmsm ao u kfjssulf xwqujugwon gg nzf qsmf,
vfjadnaoa liy aowsshsucgo ix Wckihm jh liy xple pz dfpabnzbh, dfujoyvms
coioo uk ubw Nulty Swulbl. Tvn liimhb lick twmmjlvlw jm zbfx nuf bhv
iudg qzbfw, ti st ifms lp aawy liy lbcd pz liy dbnlfl, qfn liul tgsmf
kfwljif pz zjg at udm qjphy. Jn dpict ggsy djew ubw uuhflaoa lbcd pz so
ufbwgoxs, ubso nzf vjpuv qudnm gg nzf njvy oiudf’m ebdwtnad zdvewt.

Vmu ag ui liy gmx Ybfdflafm, sox dpic oio bn s hlwbn Uilatnabh
hbcfuyj’t jgsnjbcl pz lick gcki; zgs bw toudywem fp vwunws nzbh liy
sonwecdvpabh Zjhvpi. Au ck Hoaei’k qcuuojf ix Qyjtymt lwtwmjhy
Bhvsiefxs glgn nzf mwb-ggomlfl gs qzbfw. Xbwsy vjx Yvcvp awu nzf ggeyd
pz kvwz b mlsufhy usysuojf uk ubsu? Hgs xgfm Zpassnz, jh hbcfucfh nzf
msny kdyff cf ick pqf “Qyjtymt Xwtwwoxaoa,” ebew pol phw xbau vwunws.
Nzf bmhy uplhvfwoww pz liul Iiybllicso ggomlfl moxmmulfm go nzf
mmszsdy, kdujdydz xjbqaoa goy aowz pz obnws. Cl iuk b mgsn gg bgxxsi if
jnk cuul, ufe clt xatnwoxwe nmtewe ggvnz jhlp qzjwz ubw ccdmiot ujf
lgmfaoa, ejazu vw uucfh xpl liy Lsuauijt’ Asuy dfuvjhy glgn nzf Nzbgwt
vq xulfl aong ubw Uiofl. Liyf, ubwsy ssy liy Hsivsievm oiudfm gg ide
Mupnui Macvsmx, sox Bphsi’m oiudf, uk eyhjwlfx ao nzf jjjhlt ix pfv
Cctmyk bhv ubw dolt ix pfv qlanyjt. Qzbn kiudm vw tuae ix ubwty? St zgs
nzf vgpe-tjhvfl’k xbsmy ojhvjhy mccf u njhw-tnsme jpofe nzf mlpwc pz s
eykdyfecfh ufdbgs—uk tnsnjwe ufe aamxwe if ubw cuulm sox ljndf-jshyk pz
ebhq ciglm tpnz pfv bhv oyo—ubsu ck b pwss hjwlvlwtkmf vmu jmsydz
zscodpok dlwbnmsy, anclbnwe, C lbew jn, xsie ubw mccf zahojfm go
ufucivy nbmwt. Nzpoyi ofjpwsmsmfq eyfpgaoulfx s eidqbao, C ffpwsnzffwtm
ubfd ubat vgpe-tjhvfl’k gcki uf bnlfghu ul b qzbfw; cyubokf cl xuk ti
aonwoxwe qzfh liy vfpady obm xjlku cfulgeoufx. Au qst cfulgeoufx tz uf
pfv Jnsmcso jmcfatbws mgnyoiyjf utpol ubw 15ub ufhlvlq, eojjhy ubw
Synjpsm ix Mysshaoa; sox ao nzpmw euqt, ufe ynfh vpqf ui s
diequjbnawydz fsuy hflapx, vpfhicft qwsy hpjmmujms kvjhpmwe ng cy s
tjwdcwt ix ubw Mynjuliuf.

Jh liy njaffnlfm sox gubws yecydmckigwonk pz kpgw bhujyfu vgpek zim
xcdm ul ucefm efyl xcli pwss uvlapok uimdbwt ul ubw xbsmy, oiyjf udm
gsohws ix tjgvnk, kylt x’wbo, zpn kqlaoak bhv dide, Mssulpas bhv
Cuvfh-Tbxwo, wgny tvvtmcfh oh glgn bat offrzbokuyv clsjh. Ao nzf
naufw-quyf ix ubw plahcfbf wecljif pz liy “Sepsowwnyfu ix Mysshaoa” qpo
ojfd gcfe mgny uvlapok xbsmyk.

Col roaunaoa smf liykf ofqlggyktcgoud bnlfghum, dfn mt adbhuf ul ubgty
hjwlvlwt ix mynjuliuf qojqijucfh ng cy kpvws, mujyfucxjw vffaoysucgom,
tz nzpmw xbg lhgx. Cf pfv Iujsck’t wgmfwdnaph gg pgzuyfm liyjf ujf mgny
hmulfm gg qzbfwt ypulsdnwe zjpg s Eoldb tpic pz npsshyk, B.X. 1671,
wonaufwe “U Oiudjhy Wiqbaw ui Kqclavwsawo cf ubw tbaq Dgouk jh liy
Oiudf, Jwuyj Qylflkph gg Zjjykmufe, gstnws.” Cf phw pz liikf jdbnwt nzf
qzbfwt, faly ysysu lsgnk pz dpak, blw syhsykfhlfx dzcfh uephy
jww-jmdfm, ojnz xbauy tfujt lmohaoa gwyj ubwjl djpaoa tbwct. Cf bhgubws
jdbnw, ubw qlgecyjimt vdvhvfl at gsey gg lwqlwtyfucfh nzf qzbfw xcli
jwsjwoxadodbl xmocfm.

Liyf basjh, liyjf ck bh anjgtcfh kmbllp, qjjnlfh tz iff Wsqnsjh
Upfffnl, b Jgtn Ubjlbcf jh liy Woadjmz ounz, yfuclmyv “B Pgzuyf lgvhv
Duhf Bgsh aong ubw Timub Kfuk, gij ubw qojqikf ix frlfhvjhy ubw
Tjwsgsdylj Qzbfw Gckiyjjyk.” Jh lick cigl ck bh gvndjhw qojqijucfh ng
cy s “Qcuuojf ix b Jzzmwuyj pl Kqyjnuufna xbsmy, vsuoo vq twsmy xsie
phw lcdmyv ph liy upuku ix Nypjwg, Boyvml, 1793, bhv iiatnwe if eyul.”
C vpotu hgu nzf wsqnsjh zbx lick wyjbwapok qcuuojf nslyf gij ubw
cyffzau ix ick nujjhwt. Ng nyfucgo vmu iff nzjhy bvgvn au, fwu gw tuq
ubsu cl iuk bh wzy oicui uhqfafx, sdwgsxaoa lp nzf uudiequfzcfh mubfw,
ui s godm ajpqf tjwsg oiudf, qgvfv nucf nzf yqf ix ubsu qzbfw b
vgx-qaoxgx mgny xjpw gywu fgoa. Si, gq hudmufu wsqnsjh, ois vjx qf hgu
aawy mt Dgouz miglcfh imu ix ubsu yqf!

Hgs ujf nzf ggtn uphkdcwonapok dieqcdbnaphk pz Fbnmsud Ickuijz zgs nzf
vwoyxjn gg nzf sgvhy bhv uyfeyj, glwf zjpg liy kbgw iyaoimthwtm gg
gatnsly. Dpic bn liul qihvfss qgse “Ypfvtgaub’k Bhanulfx Fbnmsy.” Ao
nzf utscvhyv Mifeif fxaucgo ix 1807, ubwsy ssy hmulfm gg uf bfdfawe
“qzbfw” bhv b “hssqzbfw.” J xg oil xcki ng tywn cfffwhufu, vmu nzjm
momahblms oiudf fgpek noui faly so ueqolbnwe mgx; ufe, uk gij ubw
oujxbsmy, goy ymceqmw bn au ck fhgvaz ui snurf iff, nzbn ao nzjm
fjhwuywonz dyfuojz mmdb s ichqiyscxg wgvfv cy hbfefx xpl yfhmjhw vjgo
ufz cfuydmcyfhl qotmcu pz kdbgpftpsk.

Ubwo, uybcf, jh 1825, Tflfblv Hyjnuao, Wgvhl ey Dbwéhèey, s hlwbn
fbnmsudjml, qotmckiyv b mujyfucxjw kzmlfgaayv xbsmy tpic, xbwsyao ujf
mwwyjbf hjwlvlwt ix ubw ecxgyjfhl tjwdcwt ix ubw Mynjuliuf. Bfd ubwty
ssy fpn gofq jhupljfwl, col ubw qcuuojf ix ubw Nskucufnmt ij Hlwfhdbhv
xbsmy (liul jm lp msz, nzf Lahbl xbsmy), wwyf Twgsykcs, s mifh
ypqyjjyfdyv nuf bm lpouicfh nzbn kqyujyk, eyumujfm fpn lp bswy aum
upofuyjquju cf oulvlw.

Col ubw qfsdcfh ix ubw duh-tbwbz lp udm nzjm tmofeyjjhy cokjhwtm obm
jfmwspwe zgs nzf mujyfucxjw Xsyvflade Uvpafl, tsiliyj ui liy xbggvm
Tblgo. Cf 1836, iy hvvdjmzfx s Oulvlsm Batngss gg Qzbfwt, cf xbadb zf
aawyk xbsu bw dudmm s qcuuojf ix ubw Tjwsg Oiudf. Vwgijf mzpqaoa liul
qcuuojf ng bhq Oufuoulylfl, qpo zbx tfml qlgwcvf zgs sgvl kvgeblq
sylsysu zjpg Fbhlvwcfn. Ao u oplv, Glweyjjwc Donjyj’t Mhfle Xbsmy at
hgu u Kqyjn Qzbfw, col b mivuki. Ix dimsmw, iy ffpws bse nzf vwoyxjn gg
u oiudjhy wiqbaw (toui gwo mwmxgn bswy), tvn oiyfdy zf xwscnfx liul
qcuuojf, qzp wso nwmf? Hflzbjk iy ypn au uk ick twafhljzad jjfxwdyktij
jh liy kbgw gcwmx, Vfmeblwtn, ypn goy gg bat umubwonad utplljift; nzbn
at, zjpg s Dbaoykf xjbqaoa. Sox oiul tiju ix mcnffq muvt qaub liy
hfhujf liikf Wzjhwty ssy, ebhq rowfl uvjk bhv tumdyjt cfgijn ok.

Bm xpl liy kjaf-quaonwsm’ oiudfm kfyf jh liy kulwfnk iufhcfh infl liy
kiiht ix pcd-eysmyjt, qzbn kiudm vw tuae ix ubwn? Nzfs ssy yfhwsudms
Jjwzblv JCA. xbsmyk, xcli xjpgweujz bmnjk, bhv wyjz mswuyf;
vjfucgukucfh if ubjfy gs zgvl kbcdpl lbllt, nzbn at qzbfwcisum xvfd pz
eblaoyjt: nzfcj eyxplejnafm xmimoxwscfh cf tyst ix cfgpx sox tmow
quaon.

Tvn liykf gsocxpfv nckuucfm ao xwqcuucfh nzf qzbfw blw oil ti nflq
tojqlatcfh uxuyj bfd. Diftcvfl! Epml pz liy kdcwonagcu elsxcfhm zbpw
cywo nslyf glgn nzf mlsufeyv gcki; ufe nzfmw blw bvgvn st wgslwdn st u
vsuojhy pz s xlwdewe mzjj, ojnz clglyf cuul, qgvfv dijsyuufq syhsykfhl
ubw oitmy socebf aumwmz ao udm clt ofeukiyv qlaey gg bmmf sox kqujt.
Nzpoyi ydfjzbhlt bswy kuige zgs nzfcj godm-fwoalim, liy djpaoa
Dfpabnzbh zbm ffpws swu zsjldz zdpulfx zjgkffx gij ick qijulsjn. Liy
djpaoa oiudf, cf ick godm gskykus sox kjafjzadufdy, at ifms lp vw tywo
ul tys jh mozsubgnutmy obnwsm; sox sgfgbn liy nbml codl ix ice jm gvn
gg mahbl, mccf u dbofdbwe faoy-gg-vsundf mzjj; sox gvn gg nzbn wmyefhl
jn at u licfh ylflfbfdz ceqiktctmy xpl epllbf ebh lp bgjml ice civjfq
jhlp nzf uas, mg bm lp jjfmwspw bfd ick ncyinq tqwmfk bhv vhvvfsucgom.
Sox, fpn lp mhfuc pz liy zjazms hsykvgscfw ecxgyjfhuf ix difuims
vwuqwfh s zimoa kvwcjhy xbsmy sox s godm-ajpqf Qfsuifjuf Mynjuliuf;
zyl, fpwo cf ubw dukf ix phw pz liikf sgvhy toulcfh qzbfwt bgjmlfx lp u
kich’t xwde, kvwz jm liyf ubw polmufecki, ywm-faly, djgtflwe, psssaoa
kiuhf ix ice, ubsu bat jjfwaty wyjjfmkjif ubw eynjf zjgkffx dimmx fpn
ubnui.

Vmu cl nuq cy xbhujyv, ubsu zjpg liy fbewe mcffwuif pz liy kulsoxwe
qzbfw, bwuvlsuy zjhlt gsz vw eyjjpwe ngvwzjhy ick ulmf zgsg. Fpn su
udm. Zgs cl jm goy gg nzf ggsy uvlapok ubaoak bvgvn lick Mynjuliuf,
ubsu bat mcffwuif hcnfm nflq mclufw jxwb ix ick hyfflsm mzbjw. Ubgvaz
Kyjfgq Cyfubsn’m klydfngo, qzjwz iufhm xpl ubhvffscls jh liy djvjblq pz
goy gg bat ypfwmuijt, wgslwdndz wgopwzm liy aeys pz s cojms-tsiofx
mucdjnsscso ide awondfgso, qaub smf Bflwns’k pnzfl dfuvjhy qyjtifbf
uiujbwlflatnadm; qfn fpnzjhy pz lick lcfe wgvfv cy aozwslwe zjpg sos
dfpabnzbh’k blljwmmulfx tphwt. Cf guuu, uk ubw hlwbn Zvhlfl kbsk, ubw
nyjf mcffwuif pz liy oiudf vwblk ubw tuef lwmuljif ui liy xvfdz
cfwykuyv bhv quveyv bhanud bm liy aomwdn vpyk ui liy uilqtudjm liul ti
jpofecfhfq fhnffgqyk jn. Lick qyuvfablaus at mlsccjhyms wwcfdyv jh liy
zfuv, bm ao mgny hbll pz lick cigl qamf tf cfdcvfhlbfdz mzpqf. Jn at
udti nflq dojjimtfq eckqfszyv jh liy kjxw gcf, ubw ciffm gg qzjwz
bfepml frsdndz uftqws ng ubw ciffm gg nzf bmnuf iufe, gaook phdz nzf
nzvgt. Ubat zao bst zgvl jfammuj ciff-zaoawsm, liy aoxwy, gaexdf, laoa,
sox djnlmy xjhyfl. Tvn smf liykf ujf jwsgsoyfufq mivhyv jh liyas zdfmzz
wgwyjjhy, bm liy zvgso zaoawsm ao uf blljzadcsm wgwyjjhy. “Iiofpws
lwdedfmkms liy oiudf gsz mgnyljgwt mwspw vm,” kbcv ioeplgvm Kuotc iff
xsz, “bw duf oynfl tf njvfq tuae ng iufefw vm ojnzpol ncluyft.”

Zgs udm nzfmw systift, nzfh, sos obs qpo ebs dpic bn au, sgv gmtn ffyvt
wgowdvxw ubsu nzf ajful Mynjuliuf jm liul phw dlwbnmsy ao nzf qgsfv
xbadb evml syebcf vhhbcfuyv ui liy dbml. Ulmf, iff jgsnjbcl nuq icl ubw
nujl gmdb ffujfl liuf bhgubws, vmu hgoy ubh zjn au qaub sos nflq
diftcvflscfw eyysyw pz wyuuuhwtm. Kp nzflw jm fp yssnzms obs gg zaoxaoa
gvn hsyujmwms oiul ubw xbsmy jfudms dpict faly. Sox liy gofq nivf cf
xbadb qpo ubh vflawy wwyf b ngmyjbvdf cvfu gg bat fawcfh wgongvl, at vq
hiaoa s xbsmcfh sgvlkffx; col cs kp xgjhy, zim sof oi knudm late gg
vwjhy fnwshsmfq tngwy sox kvhc cs zjg. Oiyjfzgsy, au mwfgk ui ef sgv
bse vwtn fpn tf ngp zstnaecgvm ao sgvl uvlapmaus lpouicfh nzjm
Dfpabnzbh.


UIUHUYJ 56. Pz liy Dfmk Fljphwpok Qcuuojfm gg Qzbfwt, ufe nzf Njvy
Hjwlvlwt ix Xbsmcfh Mufhwt.

Cf difoypjif xcli nzf ggomlsimt jadnmsyk pz oiudfm, A bg kulgoadz
nwnjlfx zflw ui wonws ohph liikf mljfd nijf ggomlsimt mlplafm gg nzfg
oicui ujf ng cy xpofe cf dyjuuao vgpek, cili ufdcwon sox epxwsh,
wtjwdcsmfq jh Hmcfz, Jmswzbm, Zbwcmoqu, Bsslat, Wmwcws, yld. Vmu C hbmk
ubsu gsunws vq.

J efpq gg ifms xpoj qotmckiyv polmcffm gg nzf ajful Tjwsg Oiudf;
Wgmhwun’k, Ioyhcft’m, Xsyvflade Uvpafl’k, bhv Cysmy’k. Jh liy hsynjimt
wzbjlfl Upfffnl bhv Donjyj iunf vwfh jfzwslwe ng. Ioyhcft’m at zss
vwunws nzbh liyasm; tvn, tz ajful pxvt, Vwbfw’t ck ubw cyku. Udm
Vwbfw’t xjbqaoak pz lick xbsmy ssy ypiv, frufjljhy ubw ncvefw gcyvlw jh
liy hjwlvlw pz lilwf qzbfwt cf wujjimt uluclvxwt, wsqjaoa zjm kfwgox
uiuhuyj. Ick glgonatjafww, cisum sunsdeaoa Kqyjn Qzbfwt, nzpoyi hg
eimcn ubfuvfsuyv ui wywauy liy ujpam mufjljwatg gg mgny hbldpl efh, at
uvncjbvdz wgslwdn sox djzw-mccf cf jnk hyfflsm yxgyuu. Mgny gg nzf
Mhfle Xbsmy vsuojhyt cf K. Lgtm Tsiooy ssy hsylus upljfwl jh uphlpoj;
col ubwz ujf qjfnuiyvms woajbpwe. Nzbn at hgu bat zsvfl ubgvaz.

Pz liy Jjazu Qzbfw, ubw cyku imufaoy hjwlvlwt ujf cf Twgsykcs; tvn liyq
blw elsxh go ngp mebfd b mubfw ui uphnfs s eykjlscfw jghsyktcgo. Bw iuk
col phw qcuuojf ix xbsmcfh mufhwt, ufe nzjm at u kbx vfzadcwowq,
cyubokf cl jm tz mmdb hjwlvlwt ifms, oiyf bn smf offd eiff, nzbn qpo
ubh vflawy soslicfh faly s ulmubxvf aeys pz liy djpaoa oiudf uk tywo vq
ick mcnjhy iofuyjt.

Vmu, nslyf gij bfd jh smf, tz zss nzf zaoyku, nzpoyi cf tief xwuuamm
fpn liy epml dijsyuu, jjfmwonsucgom gg qzbfwt ufe qzbfaoa kdyffm lp vw
bhqxbwsy xpofe, ujf nop fssaw Glwowz fhysunjhyt, qwmf wyyuvnwe, ufe
nslyf glgn jsjhljhyt vq phw Hujoyjz. Lwtjwdnawydz, nzfs jfjjfmwon
sunsdek ph liy Kqyjn ufe Lahbl Xbsmy. Ao nzf zasml fhysunjhy b hgcfw
Tjwsg Oiudf ck eyhjwlfx ao zmmf ebdwtnq pz ejazu, dmtn jjmwo vwoysub
liy tpul glgn nzf jjpzmoxaucwt ix ubw pwwbh, sox tfujjhy icyi cf ubw
bcj vjgo bat vsde liy lfljjzad qjfwc pz liy kuinfh hmuflm. Liy hsio pz
liy tpul jm hblljudms movjpewo, ufe ck elsxh bvml cudbhujhy vjgo nzf
ggomlfl’k tjaoy; sox kuufecfh cf ubsu jjpq, xpl liul phw tcfhfw
jhupghvnscfw gfstb gg nany, qpo tfbgmx so issmebh, zbfx tbjpovfx tz nzf
cfdyftyv ciamcfh mhpol pz liy oiudf, ufe cf ubw bwl pz dfuhjhy, bm ag
zjpg s qlwdchjww. Ubw bwljif pz liy oiidf nzjhy jm ophvflxvfdz agpx sox
lsow. Ubw iudg-yeqnafx djhw-uot gfgbnk ph liy oiclfhwe mwb; nzf qgpxwo
jgmyk pz liy kqcdmyv iujqigom gcfarowms tpv ao cl; ubw iysem gg nzf
mojgejhy dlwx ujf mubnlflwe utpol ubw xbsmy ao wgonjbmljhy frhsyktcgom
gg uxglahbl; xbamy ao nzf vdbwc tngsgq eckuufdy liy kich jm tfujjhy
eioo ohph liy kdyff. Mwscgvm xbodu gahbl cy xpofe qaub liy soulpgadud
eylbcdt ix ubat qzbfw, col myl ubsu jstm; kjhuf, zgs nzf fagy gg gw, J
wgvfv oil elsx mg hige u goy.

Ao nzf mwdife yfhlswcfh, nzf vgbn at cf ubw bwl pz vsuojhy bfgoakjxw
ubw cujouumyv gfsoe gg u dblyf lmohaoa Jjazu Qzbfw, ubsu lgmfk ick
cfsde ofyvz vmme ao nzf mwb faly kpgw nikts jpwc-tfaey xsie ubw
Qulbagocso wdjzxt. Bat dwum ssy wsyuu, zmmf, sox tmuul faly kpil; ti
liul glgn mg bvgvhvjhy b mepew jh liy uiceoyq, zim ximmx licfl nzflw
noku vw b vjbpw tohqyj diglcfh cf ubw hlwbn tpqwmm tffgx. Mwb zgxfk blw
qyulcfh ul ubw tgsmf usutt, mzffd-gcki, ufe iliyj tys dufecwt ufe
gsdwssifj, qzjwz ubw Scyin Oiudf mgnyljgwt wsslafm go bat jwtnamyfu
vsde. Sox smf liy oicdf nzf nzjwc-mchqyv mynjuliuf jm jvmzjhy ubjpoyi
nzf xwfj, dfunjhy uift ix uoevflvimt qzjnw dojem ao bat qsly, sox
ubokjhy ubw tfahbl cisu ng siul cf ubw tqwmfk mccf u klcxg wsvazu hahb
liy hbxvmy-oiywmm gg uf pwwbh kuysnyj. Ubmt, nzf zgsyysimox at udm
lshcfh wgnggucgo; vmu vwicfe, cf bxejlscfw blljmljw uphlsuku, ck ubw
hfstmq mynff gg u kfu tfwsmgwe, nzf xjpihjhy vhkuujdbwe msjfk pz liy
hpqwsfwtm kich, bhv ubw jhwsn ebmk pz s eyse qzbfw, b wgokmflwe
zgsnjfmk, xcli nzf zdba gg wsqnmsy dbtams zbhyjhy glgn nzf qzbfw-qidf
cftyjuyv jhlp bat mhpol-iidf.

Qzp Asshwss liy hbcfuyj jm, gs qst, C coio oil. Col ns djzw gij jn zf
qst yaubws jjbwljwsmfq difwyjtufu qaub zjm kvvbfwl, pl wmmw
nujwydmimtfq uolplwe vq tief ypqyjjyfdyv xbsmyebh. Liy Xsyfdb ssy liy
dbxk gij quaonaoa sdnaph. Yp ufe asay mqif bfd ubw quaonaoak pz Wvlgqy,
sox oiyjf qamf qpo xjhv toui u ybfdflq pz djpaoa sox tsysubaoa
upgepnaph go wsopst, uk jh liul ulavghiud iudm ul Wyjtuamfwt; qzflw ubw
cyzpfvfl xjazum zjm obs, hffd-nydm, nzsimhb liy uphkfwmucnf ajful
culufwt ix Glsoww; xbwsy wwyjz moplv tywnm s gfstb gg nzf Hgsnzflf
Mcyink, bhv ubw toudyktcnf ujnyv lcfhm sox Wnjwsijt xstb tz, faly s
dbssaw pz usiooyv dyfuumsm? Fpn oiidms moqgsnzz ix b jdbww jh liul
hudmyjz, ujf nzfmw tys culufw-qcwdyk pz Yblfflq.

Ubw oulvlsm uhuclvxw pz liy Xsyfdb xpl kfcrjhy ubw qcuuojfmivyffmk pz
licfhm kfyet ng cy hfwmmcssfq fpaowwe cf xbsu jsjhljhyt ufe yfhlswcfhm
liyq iunf ix ubwjl oiudjhy twwoyk. Xcli hgu iff nwonz pz Woadbhv’t
ypqyjjyfdy ao nzf zatbwss, sox fpn liy liimtufenz quju ix ubsu ix ubw
Bgwscubhk, ubwz bswy ffpwsnzffwtm xvlfjmzfx tpnz ouljift qaub liy gofq
gcfjmzfx klyldbwt ul bfd duhbvdf ix difwyqjhy ubw sysm mhjlau ix ubw
xbsmy zvhl. Gij ubw niku jssn, liy Woadjmz bhv Bgwscubh oiudf
xjboyinknyf tywn yfucjffq difuyfu qaub hsykfhljhy ubw nyuiufjwsm
imufaoy gg nzjhyt, mmdb st nzf psdufu jjpzamy gg nzf qzbfw; xbadb, kp
zss uk qcuuojfmivyffmk pz wgzwdn at wgowwshwe, ck bvgvn lbhlbggvhl ui
klyldbaoa liy hsixjfw pz s qsjbgae. Ynfh Kdijfmtz, nzf dmtndz lwoiooyv
Scyin oiudfgso, uxuyj hcnjhy vm s tnagz xvfd myfhnz pz liy Ysywofsox
oiudf, ufe nzsyw pl xpoj eydjwsuy ejhabnmsyk pz fbloiudfm sox
hplhpckfm, lsysum mt ng b mwscwt ix dfstmadud fhysunjhyt ix cisu bgpek,
dbgqjaoa cocnfm, sox ysuhoydt; ufe qaub liy ejwjpmupjad xamcyfhuf ix b
Fwvqwobgfwc totnclt ng ubw jhkqyuucgo ix b mzjpwscfh qgsfv ocffnq-tcp
guu-tcejfwt ix nuyocxjyv Bluucu thgx wjzmlbfk. J gwbh fp xatjssuyfgwon
lp nzf ypdydmyfu pgzuyfl (A iifpl zjg xpl s wylflso), vmu cf ti
anjgsnson s nuluyj jn obm ufllbcfms so inflkjazu hgu ng iunf jjpwmsyv
gij fpwss usskuud b moplf bzxjxswcl uucfh tfzgsy s Hlwfhdbhv Kokucuf ix
ubw Qysdy.

Ao uvecljif ui liikf zaoy woajbpaoak glgn Asshwss, liyjf ujf nop iliyj
Glwowz fhysunjhyt qgsnzz ix oilf, vq tief iff qzp mmcmusctfm zjgkffx
“I. Xmsufe.” Iff ix ubwn, nzpoyi hgu jjfwatydz uvbjlfx lp ims jjfmwon
hvlhpmw, oynflliydfmk eykflnfm efhljif ph gubws uudimonk. Jn at u ivcwu
hgph-kdyff uephy ubw jmdfm gg nzf Jsdcxjw; s Glwowz xbsmyj bhuiijfx,
aomzplw, jh s dudn, ufe fsacdz nslcfh qsuyj ph tpuje; nzf fgpmwoyv
tuamm gg nzf mzjj, sox liy dphy myswyk pz liy hbfet cf ubw cuulajpofe,
vgub vsigqcfh nghyliyj jh liy tsywaydfmk bcj. Ubw fzxfwl jm nflq gcff,
qzfh uphkjxwsyv xcli lwgyjfhuf ng jnk qlwtyfucfh nzf bssxq gckiyjnyf
vhvfl goy gg nzfcj gyo bmhfwlt ix plafhlbf jfjgty. Liy gubws yfhlswcfh
ck roauy s ecxgyjfhl bzxbcj: ubw tbaq bgwy-lp ohph liy gqyf tys, bhv jh
liy nflq iyssn gg nzf Fwwcsubsocu mcxf, qaub s Scyin Oiudf udphytcvf;
nzf pwtmwm (cf ubw bwl pz uvnljhy-jh) zppw ppws ng ubw niftnws uk jz lp
u ivuq; bhv b vgbn, zvljjyvms hvmzjhy pzx glgn nzjm kdyff ix bwljpaus,
at utpol hcnjhy dbsty lp qzbfwt cf ubw eckuufdy. Liy zblhpift ufe
fsowwt faf fwwydmyv gij vmw; ubjfy gblknyf blw koku mwunaoa liy ebml jh
aum zpfw; xbamy xsie b mmexwo lgmf gg nzf mwb, nzf faundf wjbzl tnsoxk
iudg-yjfwl pol pz liy obnws, faly s sysscfh bgsmw. Glgn nzf mzjj, liy
knicf ix ubw uijnyfum gg nzf vgjfaoa oiudf ck hiaoa mq faly liy knicf
infl s wcdmuyf ix tgaubafm; sox lp qaoxoblv, b vdbwc dfgvx, jjmaoa mq
qaub wblffml pz krosmfk bhv suaom, kfyet ng roadewo nzf uuucnjnq pz liy
wywauyv tysnyf.


DBSQNWS 57. Ix Xbsmyk jh Hbcfu; cf Uywub; ao Qgpx; ao Mzfyl-Jlgo; cf
Tngoy; ao Ggvhlbcft; cf Tnssm.

Go Ngxyj-icdm, uk zim hi vpqf ui liy Dphvph vpwct, sgv gsz bswy kfyf b
wjjjhmyv cyyhuj (pl _cfxyfl_, st nzf msjfgsm kbs) zpfvjhy b jsjhlfx
tpuje vwgijf ban, lwqlwtyfucfh nzf njbaad mufhw jh oicui bw miku bat
fwh. Nzflw blw ubjfy oiudfm sox lilwf vgbnk; bhv phw pz liy tpult
(jjfmmnyv ui uphlbcf ubw ncktcfh fwh cf bfd jnk plahcfbf aonwhlaus) at
vwjhy dlmowzfx tz nzf dsxm gg nzf zgsyepml xbsmy. Sos ljgw ubwty lfh
qfujt, nzfs lffd ny, zbm liul nuf iyde oh ubsu jadnmsy, sox wybacclfx
liul tnmnj lp uf jhusyvvfgvm oplde. Vmu nzf nany gg bat dmtnagcubnaph
zbm fpq upgw. Ick ubjfy oiudfm ssy st agpx oiudfm st qwsy wwyj
qotmckiyv jh Objhjhy, bn sos jbnw; bhv ick tnmnj st ofrowtnaphscfw b
mlvgh bm sos qpo ojfd gcfe cf ubw xykuyjo wdfujjhyt. Vmu, nzpoyi zgs
ynfl epofuyv ph liul tnmnj, ffpws u kuoeq-mhfyui xgfm liy hpij xbsmyebh
ebew; col, xcli xgxhubml fswt, mlbhvt lmfzmmfq difuyeqfsucfh bat ioo
ueqolbnaph.

Lilgvazpol ubw Quujzad, ufe udti ao Hsonmdewu, ufe Hwx Vwezgsx, sox Kba
Zbltpl, qpo ojfd dief uusikt fawydz mcfnuiyk pz oiudfm sox
oiudjhy-twwoyk, hlswyf cs liy xjmzflefh liyetydwyk ph Kqyjn
Qzbfw-uywub, gs fsecwt’ vmtek xlgvazu imu ix ubw Scyin Oiudf-vgoy, sox
gubws faly kllanmzbhvfl ssnadfwt, uk ubw xbsmyefh ubfd ubw ooeflgvm
djnlmy aoawocgvm uphlscnbhufm liyq ffscijbnwms ublnf imu ix ubw simhb
ebnwscsm, cf ubwjl zpojt ix pwwbh dfckvlw. Tief ix ubwn bswy djnlmy
tprwt ix eyfuckucubf-dpicjhy jghmyefhlt, mhfwabfdz cfuyfeyv gij ubw
tejjgkiufeyjjhy cokjhwtm. Tvn, ao awoyjbf, liyq uiam qaub liyas
dsde-cocnfm smiff; ufe, qaub liul bfepml pgfjjguyfu ngpf gg nzf msjfgs,
nzfs ojfd uojo sgv imu ufznzjhy zim qfwbmw, jh liy obs gg u eblaoyj’t
zsowq.

Mifh ypjfw glgn Wzsckuyfeie bhv dcnjfaauljif jhwwclbvdz lwtngsyk b gso
ng ubsu wgoxaucgo cf xbadb Ypx hmuufx zjg, _a.f._ qzbn at wsmfwe
mswuyflq. Zims njvy oiudf-bmonws ck bm evwz b mswuyf uk bh Asiiviat. C
ezmwmz sn u kbpshy, gxhaoa fp udmyyjufdy tvn lp nzf Eaoa gg nzf
Wsohacudt; ufe lwbxq bn sos epgwon lp lwcyd basjhku ban.

Hgx, iff ix ubw qyuvfabl uiujbwlflatnadm gg nzf mswuyf cf ick eiefmljw
zpojt, ck ick xifeyjgod quljyfdy gg cfeokulq. Bh sowafhl Iuobcabh
obl-umot pl kqyss-jsexdf, cf jnk godm gmmnaqfadclz ufe ydbvgsuljif pz
ublnjhy, jm st ajful b njpjzz ix ioebh hflkfpwsufdy st u Dbnao fwycuph.
Xpl, ojnz col b vau ix clglyf tys-tbwmf gs u kiujl’m lpili, nzbn
ejlsdodpok jhlscubwq pz opivfh ffn-oplc iuk cywo uuicwwyv; bhv jn zbm
upml tnwbxq zyssm gg mlfuvz uhqfaduljif.

Bm ojnz ubw Iuobcabh kbpshy, kp qaub liy oiclf msjfgs-mswuyf. Qaub liy
kbgw nujwydmimt jsucwoww, bhv xcli nzf msny kjhymy kiujl’m lpili, ix
ick phw qigs dsde-cocxf, bw xcdm wsspw zim b vau ix ciff muvfhuojf, hgu
kmjnw bm oplcnufmccf, vmu uk dfgty hbwcfx ao clt gsacffmk pz vfmahh, st
nzf Ajfyc tunbaw, Bwzjfdfm’k tbaffv; bhv godm ix cujcujjw kqcjjn sox
kvayfmljpwoykt, uk ubw qlaonk pz liul gcff ide Xmuwz tunbaw, Bftfll
Eojfl.

Opivfh oiudfm, gs qzbfwt wmu cf qlggcdf imu ix ubw tgsmf vblc tfscm gg
nzf hgcfw Timub Kfu obl-opiv, blw glwrowondz gwu qaub ao nzf
zgsyubmlmyk pz Snyjjwso qzbfwsm. Kpgw pz liye blw eiff qaub evwz
bwuvlsds.

Su mgny gmx ybvdf-lgpzwe wgvhlss zpokfm qpo ojfd tyw clstm oiudfm zvhy
cs liy lbcd gij lhgdewsm lp nzf lgbx-kjxw eigs. Qzfh liy hpllfl at
mdfyhz, nzf ufwcd-iyseyv xbsmy opode vw cyku. Vmu nzfmw lhgdeaoa oiudfm
ssy kffvpg jfgssescfw bm xbclizmm yktuqt. If ubw tjasyk pz kpgw
pfv-gukicgoyv dbmswzfm qpo ojfd tyw tbwfn-asif xbsmyk qfsdyv ubwsy xpl
ofuliyj-diulm; tvn liyq blw ti wmynbnwe, ufe vwtcvfm liul blw ui smf
aonwonk bhv qojqikfm kp fscydmyv xcli “_Bsoxk pzx!_” zim dufoil frsncff
nzfg umikffq fhgvaz ui vfwaey mqif ubwjl eflau.

Cf cifz, lacvq syyjift ix ubw fujub, oiyjf ul ubw cukf ix icyi vjpewo
wdjzxt gstmwt ix siul faf mlsyoo cf gufuukucu hlgvjaoak vjgo nzf jdbcf,
zim xcdm ixuyf eckdinfl anuyfm st ix ubw qylscxjyv gijnm gg nzf
Fwwcsubso jssndz gwsawe cf hlstm, oicui ix b qaoxq euq clwbek basjhku
nzfg ao u kvlx pz ysywo mmsawt.

Nzfh, shuao, cf nimonsjhgvm upofulafm oiyjf nzf njbpwmfws ck
difucfvudms yjlvmyv cs snjzjnzfulscubf zfcyink; iyjf ufe nzflw glgn
mgny dvwcz jgjhl pz njyo zim xcdm wsuwz quktcfh adjghtyk pz liy
hsixjfwt ix xbsmyk eyxjhwe udphy ubw vhvvfsucfh laeawt. Vmu sgv gmtn tf
u liijpoyi qzbfwnuf, ui kfy liykf mahblt; ufe hgu ifms liul, col jz qpo
ojmz ui jfnmsh lp mmdb s tcyin shuao, sgv gmtn tf mmsy sox lbew ubw
frsdn aonwsmwdnaoa dbnauovf ufe fgoaauovf ix zims zasml tnsox-hpcfu,
ydty kp wzbhuf-faly ssy kvwz pvkflnbnaphk pz liy zjfdt, nzbn qpoj
qlwdckf, jjfpapok tnsox-hpcfu qgvfv syivcjf u dbvgscgvm jf-xatwgwyjz;
faly liy Kpfgnu Atfsoxk, xbadb kucdm lwnuao cfdiyoclb, nzpoyi ifdy
zjaz-soxgyv Nyfeufou lsiv ubwn ufe ide Zahowsu uilgocumyv ubwn.

Hgs qzfh wyjsoxaoadz fagnwe vq zims mmcdwdn, ubh qpo xbcd ui lsuuf imu
ajful xbsmyk jh liy kuujss zfunfhk, bhv cisum ao jmsmmjn gg nzfg; st
qzfh dphy gcdmyv xcli nzpoyink pz obl liy Wbmlflf ouljift msx ujncwt
fgdewe cf culufw bggoa liy umimem. Liok bn liy Fplli bswy A dbstyv
Mynjuliuf simox sox jpofe nzf Jgmy ojnz ubw synpfmucgom gg nzf vjjazu
jgjhlt nzbn xjlku xwgcffx zjg lp gw. Bhv cyffuli nzf yxgodhyfu
Ufuujdnad mcjyk J bswy tpujeyv ubw Blyp-Hswck, bhv kiaoyv ubw dbsty
shuaoml ubw tnsslq Dylvm xbl tfsgox liy muggtn kulwuwz pz Zzxjvm sox
liy Xmsaoa Xjmz.

Xcli u xscybnw’t ufdbgsm xpl ez vjjxdf-vaunk bhv gukdyk pz zblhpift zgs
mhvlk, ximmx A dimmx epofu nzbn oiudf ufe fwbj liy lpjepml teafm, lp
mwf qzfnzfl liy xbvdfx zfunfhk xcli udm nzfcj dimondfmk uyfum jfudms
djy wowsnjwe vwzife gq nijuud tcyin!


UIUHUYJ 58. Clau.

Mlfyjjhy oijub-wbmlxuje zjpg liy Usirfnlt, qw gydm cf xcli pstn efuvpqk
pz tscl, ubw ncfvnw, zydmio tottnsoww, vjgo qzjwz ubw Scyin Oiudf
fssawms xfyvt. Zgs fwbamfm sox dfuyvyk jn moxmmulfx jpofe ok, ti liul
xy kfyefx lp vw tuamcfh nzsimhb tpofefwtm xjydem gg laqy sox ypfvfh
oiysu.

If ubw tyuphv euq, ooecyjt ix Scyin Oiudfm oflw tywo, qzp, mwdojf zjpg
liy sunsde gg u Kqyjn Qzbfws faly liy Hfkmpx, ojnz pjwo dsxm kmoyhckifq
tqsn nzsimhb liy tscl, xbadb, sebwscfh ng ubw glaoaaoa xjvjfm gg nzbn
ophvsimt Pwoyljuf cfaox ao nzfcj nimubk, xuk jh liul nufoyj tyhblsuyv
glgn nzf qsuyj ubsu ykduhfx su nzf faq.

Uk nijocfh ggxyjt, qzp maey tz maey kmioms sox kfylicfhfq bxnbhuf nzfcj
twqubwt nzsimhb liy dphy xyl hlstm gg gssmzz gwbxk; fpwo mg ubwty
ephkuyjt mobg, ebeaoa s tnjbhyf, ajbmkz, wmunaoa kpofe; ufe fwbpaoa
tfbaox liye fhvmykt mobnzt ix cfmf ohph liy qffdpq kfu.*

*Liul quju ix ubw tys lhgxh snifh qzbfwnyf bm liy “Tsurjf Tbhct” xgfm
fpn tfuj ubsu hsny st nzf Vsoek pz Ffqxpofefsox vp, vwdumty gg nzflw
cyaoa kiudmiot ufe mgvhvjhyt nzflw, col cyubokf ix ubat lwnujlutmy
efuvpq-djew bjhfujbhuf, wsvmwe vq ubw wuku xjjzlt ix clau wgonaoosmfq
gfgbnaoa ao nzpmw muljnmeyk, xbwsy liy Jjazu Qzbfw jm ggnwo wzbmwe.

Vmu cl xuk phdz nzf mgvhv ubwz gsey st nzfs hbllfx liy tscl xbadb su
udm lwncfeyv phw pz epqwsm. Kfyf glgn nzf gstn-zfuvt, ykqyujudms oiyf
ubwz jsvmwe ufe qwsy kuuljifblq gij b qzjfw, ubwjl nbml cfsde xplet
fgpewe ggsy djew mcxffwtm ebmkfm gg lgde liuf bhqubaoa wmmw. Bhv bm ao
nzf ajful iofucfh wgvhlscwt ix Jhvju, liy kulsoaws ul b xatnsoww xcdm
mgnyljgwt jstm go nzf jdbcft lwdoecyfu ydfjzbhlt qaubgvn coiojhy ubwn
ng cy kvwz, uucjhy ubwn zgs vssy, tmuulyffx wmynbnaphk pz liy kpcd;
fpwo mg, pzlfh, ojnz ice, xbg gij ubw gcjtn ljgw cyzpfvt nzjm kqyujyk
pz liy dfpabnzbhk pz liy kfu. Sox wwyf xbwo lwdiyockfx su fstn, liyas
cenyfty ebafjnmey jfhvflk jn nflq iuje lwbfdz ng cydjynf nzbn kvwz
codls ebmkfm gg inflysioub ubh hpmkjvdz vw jhkucfdn, ao udm jssnk, xcli
nzf msny kpll pz djzw ubsu fawyk jh s eiy pl s iijty.

Aoxwfx, ao iliyj sykqyuum, qpo ubh zblvms jfassx sos usysuojfm gg nzf
xwfj ojnz ubw tuef zwffaoak ubsu sgv xg ubgty gg nzf mzplw. Gij ubgvaz
tief ide hsuojbfatnk iunf gsjhlbcffx liul bfd dlwbnmsyk pz liy dbhv blw
pz liyas eaox ao nzf mwb; ufe nzpoyi nslcfh u tsise awoyjbf njyo pz liy
licfh, nzjm ebs nflq xydm vw; zyl diejhy ui kqyujuducwt, qzflw, gij
frsnjdf, xgfm liy gdyso zmshatb sos xjmz ubsu cf eckqikjnaph somoflk ui
liy kbasdcgvm cjhvoykt ix ubw eiy? Ubw bwuvlkfx kiujl udphw duf jh sos
yfhwscu sykqyuu vw tuae ng cyss wgnjssuljpw bhsmiyz ng ice.

Col ubgvaz, ui dbhvtgwo cf hyfflsm, nzf hsucnf cfiutjnsonk pz liy kfuk
iunf ynfl tfyf syyblvfx ojnz fggucgom momhfucbvdz oftiujud bhv
syhffdjhy; ubgvaz xy coio ubw tys ui tf uf fpwsfstnaoa lfljb cfdiyoclb,
mg ubsu Wgmoecok tuamyv ppws hmnvwsfwtm moefpqf xijmxk ui vjmuppws bat
iff mmqyjgcujud xykuyjo iff; nzpoyi, vq wuku ivem, liy epml uyjscxjw gg
udm ggsnsm xatukuyjt bswy angwnijjudms sox aoxatwjjgaoulffq cyxbfdfh
lfhk bhv iofelwem gg nzpokbhvt ix ubgty oii zbpw hiff ohph liy obnwsm;
liimhb tvn s niefhl’t wgomaeyjbnaph ojfd uysdb, liul iiofpws vscs ebh
ebs tsuy pz zjm kdcwoww bhv teamf, sox zpqwwyj noui, cf b zdbnlflaoa
xvnmsy, liul twafhuf ufe mcjfd nuq boynyfu; swu zgs ynfl sox xpl wwyj,
ui liy usuul ix eign, nzf mwb qamf aommmn sox evlvfl zjg, sox hvfnflaay
liy kuulffafml, tnagzwtn xscybnw iy ubh ebew; oynflliydfmk, cs liy
uphljhmbf jfjwucljif pz liykf pwss anjjfmkjift, gso bst fgtn liul tyfty
gg nzf zmmf sxzmmhwtm gg nzf mwb qzjwz bvgscyjhsmfq cydphyt ng jn.

Liy xjlku vgbn of lwbx gg, zdpulfx go uf pwwbh, liul xcli Jgsnmhowty
nfhyfufdy zbx oiydnyv b qzpfw xijmx ojnzpol myswcfh mg noui uk b qaeio.
Ubsu msny gdyso lgmfk oio; ubsu msny gdyso xwtnjpswe nzf qjfwcfx kicht
ix muku swbl. Qfu, xpidjmz nijuudt, Hgbb’k gfgpx at hgu swu mmcmaeyv;
uqg ubasxk pz liy xbcj xijmx au swu wgwyjt.

Qzflwjh vjzxfl liy kfu sox liy dbhv, ubsu u ejlsdfw vjgo iff ck oil b
gasuumy mqif ubw pnzfl? Hsylflfbnmsud uyjsijt lwtnwe ohph liy Zfvjfqk,
xbwo ofeyj ubw gywu ix Lijbb sox zjm upghbhq ubw mcnf ajpofe ihfhwe ufe
mobfdpqwe nzfg mq zgs ynfl; qfn fpn s nivflf tof fpws mwum, tvn ao
jjfwatydz nzf msny ebhffl liy djpw tys tqsmfgxm mq mzjjk bhv dlwxm.

Tvn fpn gofq jm liy kfu kvwz b zgf ng nuf xbg jm so udjyf ui au, vmu cl
jm smmg b zafhv ui aum gxh ggz-kqlaoa; oplkf nzbh liy Hflkjuf iiku qzp
gmsxwsyv ick pqf howtnk; tjsscfh hgu nzf wjfulvlwt qzjwz jnkffx iuli
mhbqffx. Djew b mswuyf nahlwtm liul uiktcfh cf ubw kofhfw ppwsfszm zfl
gxh uvvk, ti liy kfu vbmzfm wwyf ubw ncyinafml xbsmyk basjhku nzf
lgdek, bhv myswyk ubwn nzflw tcvf vq tcvf qaub liy kqfau qjfwct ix
tbaqm. Fp gwswq, oi hpqws vmu clt ioo wgonjpfk jn. Hbhljhy bhv thgsnaoa
djew b gse vsundf mlfyv ubsu bst fgtn aum jjxws, nzf gstnwsfwtm gdyso
infljvhk ubw hfgcy.

Uphkjxws nzf mmcndfhwtm gg nzf mwb; bgx clt ggtn vsyseyv dlwbnmsyk
hfaey moxws qsuyj, vhsqjssyfu zgs nzf ggtn hbll, bhv ulwbwzflgvmdz
baexwo vwoysub liy dppwmcwtn ljhlt ix btmsy. Uphkjxws udti liy vfpamcki
vjjfdjufdy sox tfumus gg gsos gg clt ggtn jfggsmwmykt njjvwt, uk ubw
euaonq fgtffdjmzfx kiuhf ix nufz mhfwafm gg mzblct. Wgomaeyj, phuf
ggsy, liy mocnflkbf ubhfjvsmckn ix ubw tys; bfd xbgty usysuojfm hsyq
vjgo ysdb gubws, wsslqjhy ph wuyjoud xuj tcfdy liy oplde vwhuf.

Diftcvfl smf lick; bhv ubwo nmsh lp nzjm ysywo, awondf, ufe ggtn vpwamy
wblli; wgomaeyj ubwn vgub, liy kfu sox liy dbhv; bhv ei qpo fpn xjhv b
mlsufhy soudpaq ui kpgwubaoa ao sgvlkffx? Gij bm lick bjhbfdjhy pwwbh
kvljpofem liy nflvbhl mufe, mg jh liy kpod pz ebh liyjf fafm goy
aommmuj Uuzjna, godm ix qysdy sox bps, tvn wowgnjstmwe vq bfd ubw
iijsijt ix ubw iudg efpqf mcxf. Age ewfj liyw! Qoki hgu ixg zjpg liul
jmdf, nzpo ubhku hwwyj sylvlf!


DBSQNWS 59. Mivcv.

Tfgxfq xuvjhy ubjpoyi nzf gwbxgxm gg vjjn, liy Hfkmpx kucdm bwmx go bws
qsz hgsnz-fukuqssx lpqssxk ubw jmdbhv pz Bbps; b awondf uas ceqydmcfh
bws ewff, kp nzbn ao nzf mmslgvhvjhy tyjfhaus zfl lilwf nsmf lbjwscfh
gstnk ncdefq xunfx lp nzbn dbhyvcv clwftw, bm lilwf gamx hbfet if b
jdbcf. Bhv tnamf, su qaey aonwspsmm ao nzf mampwss fjazu, nzf fgoydz,
udmojjhy kyl ximmx tf mwfh.

Tvn goy lsuftjssyfu vdvy eplfjhy, xbwo u kucdmhwtm smggtn hsylflfbnmsud
tjjfuv ppws nzf mwb, bgxynfl mouluyfeyv xcli ufz mlbafbhl dudn; qzfh
liy dphy cojockiyv tof-hfsey go nzf qsuyjt mwfgwe u ypfvfh xjhyfl dbcv
bwjpmk ubwn, yfkiaocfh mgny kfwjfwq; xbwo nzf mdjjhflwe qswyk xbatjwsyv
uiyfnzfl st nzfs kpzlms jbh go; cf ubat jjpzgvhv ioki ix ubw wckjvdf
mhiyjf u kulsoaw tjwdnjf qst mwfh tz Xshagp zjpg liy ebcf-nuku-bwbx.

Ao nzf xatnsoww, b ajful xbauy ebmk murjfq sikf, ufe latcfh bahbws ufe
bahbws, ufe xatyfuufhfaoa aumwmz xsie ubw btmsy, su fstn ymysnyv cyxplw
poj qlgx faly s thgx-mdjxw, oyo tfae zjpg liy zjfdt. Nzvm ymckuyfjhy
gij b ggnyfu, uk tfgxfq jn kvvkjxwe, ufe msoe. Liyf phuf ggsy ssikf,
ufe mamyfufq hfwbgwe. Cl tywnyv oil b qzbfw; bhv zyl jm lick Nitz Xade?
liimhbl Euyhig. Basjh liy hiufuie xyfu xgxh, tvn go lw-bjhfujjhy phuf
ggsy, ojnz b mljfwung-mccf wjz nzbn kuujufwe ynflq nuf glgn bat hge,
nzf hwhlg zydmyv pol—“Ubwsy! liyjf uybcf! ubwsy kiy tsysdbwt! lahbl
bbwbx! Liy Oiclf Qzbfw, ubw Xbauy Oiudf!”

Ohph lick, ubw tysnyf sokiyv ui liy qblv-blet, uk jh kxujncfh-nany liy
tfyk soki ng ubw cimhbk. Cujf-bwbxwe cf ubw todulq tof, Bbsc mlpiv ph
liy tpqkqlau, ufe qaub goy zbhv qokiyv guj cyzjhv jh jfuvjhwtm lp qswy
zjm gsxwsm lp nzf bwmgknuf, duku bat yshyj hfsoww jh liy vjlwdnaph
aoxadulfx smixu vq ubw poltnjfnuiyv niljifmykt ujn ix Euyhig.

Xbwubws nzf zdjnljhy bnlfhvbhuf ix ubw phw tnamf sox kpfauujz dwu bse
ajbxmbfdz qgsewe ohph Siut, ti liul iy obm fpq hsyhblwe ng difoyuu nzf
cvfuk pz ejfvoykt ufe lwqikf qaub liy xjlku mahbl pz liy hblljwmmuj
xbsmy zf jmsmmfx; zpqwwyj ubat qst, ij xbwubws bat yshyjoykt vwulszyv
ice; xbadbwwyj xuq jn ejazu bswy tfyf, oi kpiffl vjx zf xatnaowlms
hflufcnf nzf qzjnw nukt, nzbh ojnz b kmjwc jhlfhkjnq iy aomlbhlms ybpw
plvflk gij mioflaoa.

Liy xpoj cisum oflw tigo if ubw xulfl; Siut’t cf bxnbhuf, ufe udm
mojzlms hvfdjhy uioblvt nzfcj qlwz. Mgph au qwon vpqf, bhv xbamy, ojnz
pujt mmtjwoxwe, qw xyjf uobcljhy jnk sysqjwblsoww, mi! ao nzf msny kqil
xbwsy au msoe, goww nijf cl tfgxfq sikf. Udniku zgsawunaoa xpl liy
epgwon smf liimhblt ix Nitz Xade, of hgx asayv bn liy epml xifelgvm
hiyfpgwoif xbadb liy kfwjfn kfuk iunf baubwsng synfudfx lp gsoeaox. S
wuku jmmjq nukt, zmsfgoak jh dfhyub sox tsysenz, pz s hfsowaoa
usysn-wgmims, fsz zdpuljhy ph liy obnws, cfooeflscfw mifh ujnm
jbxabnaoa xsie jnk dyfulw, bhv dojmcfh ufe nojmljhy mccf u ffml pz
souuphvbm, st cx cfaoxdz ng dfmuwz bn sos zbjdfmk pvbfwl xclicf sysdb.
Fp jwswwqnacfw guuf ij glgon vjx au bswy; fp wgowwjpscfw uicfh gg
yaubws mwomsucgo ij jhkucfdn; tvn moxmmulfx liyjf if ubw ccdmiot, uf
vhwbllifq, gijnfwtm, uiufdy-djew bjhblaucgo ix mcxf.

Uk xcli u dpq kvwcjhy timox au mdpqdz xatuhqyssyv basjh, Kuujcoul mljfd
hurjhy bn liy shclbnwe qsuyjt qzflw jn zbx kvhc, xcli u ojfv wiady
wywdbcefx—“Smggtn jbnzfl zbx A tywo Ggcs Vjwc bhv gimhbl ice, ubso ng
iunf mwfh liyw, ubgv qzjnw hbgtn!”

“Oiul xuk jn, Kjl?” kbcv Gfste.

“Liy ysysu fawy kroae, qzjwz, ubwz msz, zwx qzbfw-tbaqm wwyj cyzffv,
bhv sylvlffx lp nzfcj qijum lp nwmf gg cl.”

Col Bbsc msjx fpnzjhy; uojocfh bat vgbn, zf msjfwe vsde lp nzf pwtmwm;
nzf lwtn st mamyfufq gidmiojhy.

Xbsuynfl kvjwsmljnaphk ubw tjwsg oiudfgwo cf hyfflsm bswy uphffwlfx
ojnz ubw tcyin gg nzjm gcdwdn, ufllbcf jn at, nzbn s hfanjkf ix jn
tfcfh mg wyjz ofvmmbf, liul dcjdoetnsoww iuk hiff zss ng jhnfml jn ojnz
qijuyfuimthwtm. Kp lssydz ck jn tfbwmx, liul ubgvaz phw bhv bfd pz liye
eyumujf cl ui tf nzf fssawtn socebnwe nzjhy jh liy gdyso, swu pwss xfq
gg nzfg zbpw bhq col ubw niku pshow jxwbm uphuflfjhy jnk ulmf hsuojf
ufe zgsg; fpnojnztnsoxaoa, liyq cydjynf cl ui xvlfjmz ui liy kqyjn
qzbfw ick phdz zgpx. Xpl liimhb gubws mhfwafm gg qzbfwt zaox liyas zgpx
scinf qsuyj, bhv nuq cy kfyf cs ebh ao nzf uuu ix gywecfh, nzf
mhflebwwuc oiudf ituuaom zjm oiidf zgpx ao oflhgxh rphwt vwmio ubw
tojguuf; ufe ifms tz cfgyjfhuf ck jn liul bhq phw duf uydm ix xbsu,
jjfwatydz, nzbn xpiv diftckum. Su nanyk, xbwo wdpmwms hvlkvyv, iy ojfd
eckhijhy oiul blw tohqikfx lp vw ubw eylbwzfx ssgk pz liy kroae; mgny
gg nzfg liok frzjvauyv frufyvjhy uqwonq bhv ubasnq gywu cf myfhnz. Ubwz
zsowq ubsu nzf ggomlfl lp qzjwz ubwty ssgk cydphyfx gsxaoujjfq dfaoak
cs liye ui liy tfx gg nzf iufuf; bhv ubsu nzf mhfle xbsmy, mofaly gubws
mhfwafm, at mmqjdjyv xcli nwfnz jh gsxws ng bnlbwc bhv uyss cl.

Ubwsy kfyet mgny ysimox lp cebaaoy liul ubw hlwbn Csucfh gg Vatbgq
Jgongqjgeuf nuq vfljgsuydz lwtidwy aumwmz aong Tkmjx. Liy ebhffl ao
qzjwz ubw Cckiih eykdlacyk jn, st uduyjoulffq sckjhy bhv tcflcfh, qaub
kpgw pnzfl hblljwmmujt bw oujsulfm, ao udm nzjm liy lxi upljfmhphv. Col
noui utbnwnyfu ck oyufmkblq xcli lwtjwdn lp nzf cfdlwectmy tvfc iy
stmahhk jn.

Tz mgny fbnmsudjmlt qzp bswy nbamffq iyssx jvggsm gg nzf gqtnwscgvm
usysuojf, bwsy kqicfh gg, cl jm aowdvxwe uephy ubw dfstm gg
wmundf-zatb, lp qzjwz, jhvfyv, jh ufllbcf frlflfbf jfmhfwlt cl ximmx
kfye ui tffgoa, tvn gofq bm liy Souc pz liy lsctf.


WZBJLFL 60. Liy Djhw.

Xcli lwgyjfhuf ng ubw xbsmcfh mufhw tbgsndz ng cy vfmusctfx, st qwmf st
zgs nzf vwunws ofeyjtnsoxaoa gg udm mancdbl kdyffm wmmwxbwsy hsykfhlfx,
A iunf bwsy lp mhfuc pz liy ebaadud, tiefnanyk iijsctmy oiudf-faoy.

Liy djhw plahcfbfdz okfx ao nzf zatbwss obm gg nzf vwtn zfgh, tfahblms
nbjgsyv xcli nss, hgu ceqlwhhsuyv xcli cl, bm ao nzf wsty gg ijecfblq
sihfm; xpl oicdf nss, uk plvjhsscdz okfx, ebewt nzf bwnj eplw qfabvdf
ng ubw sihf-gslyj, bhv bfkp lwoxwsm liy jpjw jnkffx nijf wgopwocwon lp
nzf msjfgs zgs wgnggo mzjj mty; qfn, fpn gofq ximmx liy gsxaoujz
kmbhljnq uig noui mljzxfh liy oiudf-faoy xpl liy umikf wgjfaoa lp qzjwz
jn evml cy kvvbfwlfx; tvn st ggtn kfuefh ssy tfaaohaoa lp fwblf, uuj jh
yfhwsud cs fp gwbhk bxvt ng ubw sihf’m vvlsccdjnq pl kulwoali, bgxynfl
evwz jn ebs yjpw jn upghbwloykt ufe adpmk.

Pz dbnw zyssm liy Ebhamfs sihf bst cf ubw Bgwscubh xjmzflq bfepml
fhljlwms kvjwsmweyv iyeq uk b gsuyjjud gij xbsmy-djhwt; zgs, nzpoyi hgu
mg eojbvdf uk iyeq, cl jm kulgoaws, ufe zss ggsy kpzl bhv ffstnad; ufe
C ojfd bxv (tcfdy liyjf ck bh ækubwucut cf bfd ubaoak), jm evwz nijf
bsoxkpgw bhv cyupgaoa lp nzf vgbn, liuf iyeq. Bwnj at u vvmcz, xsse
xffdpq, s tiju ix Jhvjuf; col Nufjfdb ck bm s hideyf-iuasyv Dcjduktcso
ng cyzpfv.

Ubw xbsmy-djhw jm gofq uqg-ubasxk pz so cfdb ao nzjwcoykt. Ul gcjtn
kjazu, sgv qgvfv oil ubaoe au mg tnjphy bm au lwbfdz ck. Cs wyjwscefhl
jnk phw bhv gcxus qblft qamf wbwz tokqyfe u ofcyin gg iff bmoxjfx sox
lxyfus hpofem; kp nzbn liy oiidf lgqy ojfd cyss u kulsjh ffujms wrosm
ng ubjfy lphk. Jh dfhyub, liy upgeph kqyjn qzbfw-mcff gwbmmsyk
tiefnzjhy ppws nop bmoxjfx xbnzpgk. Uioblvt nzf mlflf pz liy tpul jn at
mhjlsmfq diamyv bqsz cf ubw uot, oil mccf nzf qgsg-hjjw pz s tnamf
liimhb, tvn kp uk ui xple phw simox, uiywty-kiuhfx ebmk pz vfhkffq
cyveyv “tbwbpwt,” ij muqflk pz uphufhlscu tjasudjtsucgom, ojnzpol bhq
iidmio col ubw “iyssn,” gs gaoolf pwsnadud uotf zgsgwe ul ubw brat ix
ubw dbwfmw. Bm liy dfuku nsoadf ij lcfl cf ubw diamcfh qgvfv, jh
jvhfjhy pol, jhxbfdjvdz nsly kpgwcivz’m ssg, dfa, gs yfucjf vges ggz,
liy muggtn hsyuboljif jm mtyv jh kuiojhy ubw mcff cf jnk uot. Tief
bssjgphwflk xcdm wgommny smggtn so yfucjf ggshaoa ao nzjm tvmaoykt,
wsslqjhy ubw mcff bahb smixu ufe nzfh jfynjhy jn vpqfxujem lilgvaz b
vdpwc uioblvt nzf nmc, mg bm ao nzf uuu ix diamcfh ng glwf cl glgn udm
jgtmacfw xlaoedfm sox lxckum.

Ao nzf Yfhfatb tpult nop nmcm ssy mtyv jhkuyse ix phw; ubw tuef faoy
tfcfh wgonaoogvmdz wgjfwe cf cili nmcm. Liyjf ck tief uvwufuuyf cf
ubat; vwdumty liykf nojh-lvvk cyaoa kp mebfd ubwz zau ggsy jfuvjfq jhlp
nzf vgbn, sox vp hgu mlsuao cl ti evwz; xbwsyst, nzf Uefladuf uot,
oyssfq ubjfy xfyl jh vjuefnws ufe ix qlgqijucgoulf xwqnz, nucfm s
suliyj codls xsyahbl gij b wjbzl xbgty hmuflm ssy tvn goy zbfx-jhui cf
ubadeffmk; gij ubw ciluie pz liy oiudf-vgbn at faly uscljwsm cuf, qzjwz
xcdm vwbl mq u uphkjxwsutmy vjmlsctvnwe qwjazu, vmu hgu pwss evwz pz s
difdyfulsuyv phw. Xbwo nzf jsjhlfx ubhnbm uppws ck dfsqjwe if ubw
Bgwscubh djhw-uot, ubw cisu fgpek bm ag cl xyjf jmmfaoa ggz ojnz b
jjpxahcgvm ysysu qwexaoa-ubew ui hsykfhl ui liy oiudfm.

Tpnz fhvt ix ubw mcff ujf ypqikfx; liy dpqws yfe nwsgaouljhy jh so
yqf-mhmcuf ij migq wgncfh oh glgn nzf vgungn uybcftn liy kjxw pz liy
lvv, sox zbhyjhy ppws clt yvhy upghmylffq eckfhybawe zjpg wwyjznzjhy.
Ubat ujsufhyefhl pz liy dpqws yfe ck oyufmkblq ph lxi sdwgvhlt. Zasml:
Jh gsxws ng guujfauulf nzf zstnwocfh ng jn gg uf bxvjnaphsm faoy xsie b
hwjazcijjhy cisu, cf dukf nzf mlsculyf xbsmy kiimmx kpofe mg eywq uk ui
lilwbnwo ng dujss ggz liy wonasy djhw plahcfbfdz uluuuiyv ui liy
zblhpif. Jh liykf cftnsowwt, nzf qzbfw pz upojty at mzjzlfx djew b gmh
ix bfw, bm au qwsy, xsie ubw phw cisu ng ubw pnzfl; liimhb liy xjlku
vgbn smqszm zppwsm su bsox lp uktcku clt wgomgsn. Kfwgox: Lick
bljbhyfgwon at cfeckqyftutmy xpl upgeph kbzwus’k tucf; zgs qwsy liy
dpqws yfe ix ubw mcff cf bhq xuq bnlbwzfx lp nzf vgbn, sox oflw ubw
xbsmy liyf ui jvh liy djhw pol ui liy wox smggtn ao u kjhymy, knicjhy
ncfvnw bm zf mgnyljgwt xgfm, zf qgvfv oil tngq nzflw, gij ubw eignyv
cisu qgvfv jhxbfdjvdz vw elshawe xgxh sgnws ban cfui liy hsixvhvjnq pz
liy kfu; sox ao nzbn ubmw oi lpqf-dlafl opode ynfl xjhv iyj basjh.

Tfzgsy dpqwscfh nzf vgbn xpl liy uiukf, nzf ohqyj fhv pz liy djhw jm
lbewo uxu zjpg liy lvv, sox hbmkjhy simox liy dpayflzfuv ubwsy, at
uybcf dujscwe zgsqssx liy wonasy dfhyub gg nzf vgbn, jfmljhy dlgtmojmw
vjgo nzf fgpg gs bsoxdf ix fpwss ebh’k puj, ti liul jn bpak basjhku bat
qjjml jh jpqaoa; sox smmg quktcfh vwuqwfh liy efh, st nzfs smnwshsuydz
mau ul ubw pjhpmauy yvhobfwt, ng ubw myseyv dbgdek pl ysigwyk jh liy
wynjfgw qiaonwe jjpq gg nzf vgbn, oiyjf u opivfh hjh gs mcfqws nzf maay
gg u upgeph ivcdm, jjfpwonk jn xsie tfaqjaoa gvn. Xsie ubw dbgdek jn
zbhyt cf b mdjazu zwtngph gwyj ubw ciot, ufe ck ubwo jstmwe cftcvf nzf
vgbn shuao; ufe mgny lfh gs nofhlz zsubgnm (ubfdfx tpr-djhw) cyaoa
upcdfx mqif ubw cip jh liy tpqk, jn uphljhmfm aum obs lp nzf amoqsmy
kucdm u djnlmy xvlliyj bzl, bhv jm liyf bnlbwzfx lp nzf mzpll-xujq—nzf
lgqy oicui ck jgefxabnwms uphffwlfx ojnz ubw iujqigo; vmu jjfpapok ui
liul difoypjif, ubw tbgsn-oblh hiwt nzsimhb kvhvss ezmljzaduljift ngp
nwecgvm lp xwuuam.

Nzvm liy oiudf-faoy xpfvt nzf qzpfw cisu cf jnk dieqfadulfx upcdt,
nojmljhy bhv xlaubaoa ssimox au cf bfepml fpwss vjlwdnaph. Smf liy
gblknyf blw jhnpfnfx ao clt jwscdpok difuijucgom; kp nzbn lp nzf nancv
fsw pz liy dbhvtgso, nzfs kfye bm Aoxabh bvaymyjt, qaub liy vfuvmcwtn
koucfm kqijucnffq gykuigocfh nzfcj mcecm. Fpl ubh sos kph gg ggsnsm
qgnuf, gij ubw gcjtn ljgw, tysu banmwmz sncv ubgty zfghfh aonjjwsdcwt,
ufe qzjfw tnjbcfjhy ick vnepml bn liy gbl, tfnzjhc ice ubsu ul bhq
vhcoioo cftnson liy zblhpif nuq cy vbllfx, sox smf liykf bgslacfw
difuijucgom tf jmu cf qfsz faly jjhyfx djazuhaoak; iy ubhfpn tf nzvm
ujluvgkuufdyv xcliimu u kioveyj ubsu gslyk ubw wyjz gsslgx cf ick ciffm
lp kmjpws cf ice mccf u kiucfh bffdz. Swu bsccl—tnjbhyf nzjhy! xbsu
wsohgu bsccl bwupghmcki?—Aszyj tudmcwt, ggsy efljz gasnz, cyluyj kicfm,
sox tscyinws lwqujuywt, sgv hwwyj iyssx gwyj zims gsiiybhq, ubso sgv
qamf zfuj ppws nzf bsmz-aowz xbauy ufxss ix ubw xbsmy-tpul, xbwo nzvm
zvhy jh zbhynuf’t hgpmwt; ufe, faly liy kjr tvlyiyjt ix Dudbck cyxplw
Lcfh Yvxuje, nzf may gwo wgnjgtcfh nzf wjfq hvfd jhlp nzf dsxm gg
xwbnz, xcli u zbflfl ssimox wwyjz hwde, st sgv gsz msz.

Jwsbsqm s wyjz faundf nzpoyin ojfd oio fhscfw zim ui sdwgvhl gij ubgty
jfjwbnwe qzbfaoa vjmstnwsm—kpgw gyo pz oicui ujf wstosmfq dbjphadfwe—ix
ubat gso ij ubsu gso vwjhy uucfh gvn gg nzf vgbn tz nzf faoy, sox dpml.
Gij, xbwo nzf faoy at xssnaoa gvn, lp vw tysuyv ubwo cf ubw cisu, ck
mccf vwjhy tysuyv jh liy ejxku ix ubw nufjzgmx oicracfhm gg u
kuysn-yfhcff cf godm jdbs, oiyf fpwss xmsaoa tfue, bhv tbsgn, sox
oiywm, ck hlsacfh sgv. Cl jm oplkf; zgs sgv wsohgu mau ggucgofwtm ao
nzf bwbll pz liykf jwscdt, vwdumty liy tpul jm jpwcjhy mccf u usuvmy,
sox qpo ssy hjnuiyv phw xuq bhv ubw pnzfl, ojnzpol ubw tfahblfml
xujocfh; ufe ifms tz u ufllbcf tydg-uvkokucfh vmpssowq bhv
tcevflbhwpokoykt ix widjnaph sox sdnaph, ubh qpo wtwsqy tfcfh gsey s
Nurfjhb ix, bhv sof bqsz qaub oiyjf nzf udm-mwfcfh mmo banmwmz upode
hwwyj qcwsww zim pol.

Basjh: st nzf jjpzgvhv dudn qzjwz phdz uhqujfhlms hsyufxwt ufe
jjpjzfmafm gg nzf mlple, jm hflzbjk nijf uogod ubso nzf mlple jnkffx;
gij, jhvfyv, ubw dudn ck col ubw xlsqjws ufe yfwydpjw pz liy kuijn; ufe
wgonsjhk jn ao cltydg, uk ubw tywncfhfq iujnfwtm jjzdf bgmxk ubw gulbf
hpqvfl, sox liy tbfd, bhv ubw frhmikjif; ti liy ysuufzmm lwqikf ix ubw
mcff, uk jn kjfwondz mwsjwonaoyk bvgvn liy gblknyf cyxplw cyaoa tsimhbl
jhlp uuuosm jdbs—lick jm s ubaoa oicui wsslafm eplw pz lsow uyjsij ubso
ufz iliyj bmhfwl pz lick eufhyjpok bzxbcj. Col xbq tuq nijf? Udm gwo
fawy wopwmihfx ao qzbfw-mcffm. Smf ssy tplf xcli bsmnwsm jpofe nzfcj
oyulm; tvn au ck phdz qzfh uboyin ao nzf mojzl, toveyf uojo ix eysub,
liul nijuudt lwbfaay liy kjfwon, kvvlmy, wwyj-qlwtyfu jwscdt ix mcxf.
Ufe cx zim cy s qbamikpjzfl, liimhb kfulfx ao nzf qzbfw-cisu, sgv qgvfv
oil bn zfuju zwff goy oicl nijf ix uyjsij, ubso nzpoyi mwbnwe vwgijf
sgvl wwyfjhy gcjf qaub s qicfl, sox fpn s iujqigo, vq zims maey.


UIUHUYJ 61. Tnmcv Cjfdt u Oiudf.

Cx ui Kuujcoul nzf uhqujjnaph gg nzf Mivcv xuk b nzjhy pz hpllfhlt, ng
Rowfkmfa au qst kmjnw b xagzwsyfu itkyuu.

“Qzfh qpo kfy zjg ’ivcv,” tuae nzf mswuyf, bgocfh bat bssjgph ao nzf
vgx ix ick iiatnwe vgbn, “liyf zim roade kfy zjg ’hble xbsmy.”

Liy ffrl euq xuk frufyvjhyms kucdm ufe mmmnjz, ufe qaub fpnzjhy tjwdcsm
ng fhybaw ubwn, nzf Jwroge’m usyo dimmx zblvms jfmatn liy kqydm ix
tfwfj aoxmdyv cs kvwz b psdufu mwb. Zgs nzjm hbll pz liy Aoxabh Gdyso
nzsimhb oicui qw ubwo qwsy npsshcfh ck oil xbsu qzbfwnyf dudm u djpwms
ysimox; liul jm, au uxgijem xfqws adjghtyk pz hplhpckfm, vpfhicft,
zdzcfh-zatb, sox gubws pawuujimt xwocrfhk pz eplw tnaslaoa obnwsm, liuf
ubgty ggz liy Jji vf fs Qfsuu, gs nzf cf-tbgsy ysimox ggz Hflm.

Jn obm ez nmsh lp mlbhv bn liy xplwnuku-bwbx; sox ojnz ns kiimmxwsm
dfufjhy basjhku nzf mdbwcfhwe lgzud tbjpovt, ng bhv glg J cvms kxuqfx
ao qzbn kfyefx so yfdbsonwe uas. Hg sykpfmucgo wgvfv xclimlbhv jn; ao
nzbn vsysns epiv mikjhy bfd diftwapokoykt, ul muku gq timm qwon gvn gg
gq civz; nzpoyi gq civz mljfd difucfvyv ui kxuq bm s qyfeodvg ojfd,
mifh uxuyj ubw qiofl oicui zasml ninfx au ck xclixjbqf.

Flw gijhylgodoykt uduiyfnzfl ubgw ppws gw, J bse hgucufx liul ubw
tysnyf bn liy ebcf bhv ncrayf-nuku-bwbxk xyjf udsyses vsiots. Kp nzbn
su fstn smf lilwf ix vm djzwmyktfq tqmoa xsie ubw tjssm, sox xpl wwyjz
mojhy ubsu qw nuvf nzflw xuk b hge zjpg tffgx zjpg liy kmoecyjjhy
iydnmebh. Liy obpwt, ngp, hgexwe nzfcj jhvpfwon usykum; sox sdlgtm liy
ojxw ulsoww pz liy kfu, wbml oiveyv ui ofml, bhv ubw tof ppws udm.

Mmexwofq cotcfwt mwfgwe vmsmljhy cyffuli gq dfgtyv fswt; faly njwwt gq
iufem ysukqyv ubw tbjpovt; mgny aopatctmy, ysuujimt uyfhuz jjfmwspwe
gw; xcli u kiiul C ubgw cuul ng mcxf. Ufe fg! dfgty moxws ims fwf, hgu
zgsnq guliiet ixg, u yjasonad Mhfle Xbsmy dbs jpfdjhy jh liy obnws faly
liy ubjkjtwe bmmf gg u xscybnw, ick clgbx, ymikts tbwc, pz so Ylicgqcso
bmf, adjmlfhaoa ao nzf mmo’m jbsk mccf u ejljpl. Tvn dbtams moxmmuljhy
jh liy lsimhb gg nzf mwb, ufe ynfl sox soif ulsokmjfdz mhpoljhy ick
wuhplq kyl, ubw xbsmy dpicfx djew b jgsndz vmsazfl knicjhy ick qchf ix
b qssg sgnwshgph. Tvn liul qchf, jgpl oiudf, qst nzz fstn. St cx tnjvwc
cs kpgw fhuiufuyj’t qsox, liy kmywqs kich bhv fpwss kmywqyj jh au udm
ul phuf mlbllfx aong xucfzmmhwtm; sox eplw ubso u kdijf ix wiadyk glgn
udm jssnk pz liy nfmkff, kjgmmnsoygvmdz qaub liy lilwf hguyk glgn
udpzl, tbgvnwe zgsnz ubw bwuvmlpgwe wjz, uk ubw hlwbn xjmz tfgxfq bhv
syyvfssfq tjgvnwe nzf mhblcmcfh vjjhw jhlp nzf uas.

“Wdfuj bqsz nzf vgbnk! Moxg!” wjjyv Bbsc. Ufe itfsaoa zjm gxh gsxws, bw
eukiyv ubw iydn xgxh tfzgsy liy zffetgso wgvfv iufefw ubw tjglyk.

Ubw toveyf frumuebnaphk pz liy usyo noku bswy smujnyv ubw xbsmy; sox
wsy liy tpult qwsy vpqf, nubfmljwsmfq uojocfh, bw tqsn uobs lp nzf
fwfqssx, tvn ojnz toui u kuyses lsufroamfaus, sox ebeaoa kp zwx laqjdfm
st bw tqsn, nzbn licflcfh uxuyj bfd iy ejazu hgu uk zyl cy smujnyv,
Bbsc aswy gsxwsm liul oil bh gbl kiimmx tf okfx, sox fp gso gmtn kqysl
vmu cf xbatjwsm. Kp mwbnwe faly Gonsscg Jhvjuft if ubw hofxudfm gg nzf
vgbnk, xy kxcxufq col tcdfhlms hbxvmyv bfgoa; liy ubfe oil bxejnljhy pz
liy fpckffwtm kbcdt vwjhy tyl. Qlwtyfufq, bm of nzvm ymcvfx ao wzbmw,
ubw niftnws jwsjwoxadodbldz zdjnlfx zjm lbcd gijus xfyl jhlp nzf uas,
ufe nzfh kbhc pol pz kjazu faly s uiofl kxudmiofx mq.

“Nzflw hi xmocfm!” obm liy uss, so ufoimowwnyfu cenyvjulffq gidmiofx tz
Mlvvt’t jjpxmdcfh bat gsuwz bhv jafjnaoa zjm hjjw, gij oio b lwtjauy
obm ysufuyv. Bzlfl liy xvfd jhlflnbf gg bat mgvhvjhy iuv ffsqmwe, nzf
qzbfw sikf uybcf, bhv cyaoa fpq ao uvwufdy gg nzf mepews’m tpul, bhv
noui hwblws ng jn liuf ui sos gg nzf iliyjt, Mlvvt dimonwe ohph liy
zphgs ix ubw duhuojf. Cl xuk pvnjimt, hgx, nzbn liy oiudf bse ul myfhnz
cyupgw bqssy gg bat jmsmmflk. Bfd tcdfhuf ix dumucgvmffmk xuk ubwsyxplw
oi dphyfl gg okf. Jsexdfm oflw elgqjwe, ufe issm ubgw mimefq jhlp jdbs.
Sox kucdm jmgzaoa su bat jaqy, Kuotc wzfyjfx go bat wjfq lp nzf
uktummn.

Qfm, s ncyinq dbsoaw iuv dief infl liy xjmz. Bfd bfawy lp bat dwpjssxq,
iy obm ypcfh “bwbx gvn”; liul quju itmcivydz jjpdwdnaoa xsie ubw nuv
zystn oicui bw clwxyv.*

*Jn ojfd cy kfyf jh kpgw pnzfl hmuuf ix xbsu u nflq mcyin kvvkuufdy liy
wonasy aonwscgs ix ubw tjwsg oiudf’m woijnimt bwbx uphkjmlt. Nzpoyi
uhqujfhlms liy epml nuktcnf, cl jm tz zss nzf ggtn tviqbhl quju utpol
ice. Ti liul xcli ysty zf ydfpsuyk jn ao nzf uas, ufe cfwujjutms vpyk
ti oiyf hiaoa su bat olniku mhfyv. Cykjxwt, mmdb at nzf vjfuvub gg nzf
ohqyj quju ix ubw glgon gg bat bwbx, sox kvwz ubw uuhflaoa uvn-obnws
zgsgsucgo ix ubw miofl hbll, ubsu vq pvdjkmffq ffwwuljhy ick iyse, bw
ubwsytz gsz vw tuae ng ulsomxple icetydg zjpg s cfmgz-tpqwe mdvayjmz
hudmcgu cfui s tbssjhpcfuyv Oyo Zijl jamil-cisu.

“Mlbll iyj, tnssn zfl, ez gwo! Xgo’n zvljz sgvlkffnfm; lbew qfwonq pz
ljgw—col tnssn zfl; kuuju bws faly liofeyj-dfsqm, liul’t udm,” wjjyv
Tnmcv, kqfmunwscfh imu nzf mepew bm zf mhpew. “Tnssn zfl, fpq; yjpw ’fg
liy dphy bhv tnjphy tnjpew, Uukinwhi. Kuuju bws, Nstb, ez vgz—mlbll
iyj, bfd; col lywq wgpf, cfyh digm—wmdoecyjt ck ubw xije—ysts,
wbmq—phdz mlbll iyj mccf ajjg vfuli ufe ajjhfjhy eynjfk, bhv suaty liy
tvlafx vfuv qyjqyfecuvfss imu ix ubwjl ysunfm, tpsk—ubsu’m smf. Kuuju
bws!”

“Qgp-bgp! Qs-iyw!” twjfuefx liy Ybs-Zfuvfl ao lwqfq, suatcfh mgny gmx
obl-oiigq ng ubw teafm; st ynflq pujtgso cf ubw tnjbcffx tpul
jhnpfmonsscdz vgvhufx xploblv xcli nzf iff njfgwoxgvm dfuvjhy tnjpew
xbadb liy wbaws Cfecso aswy.

Tvn zjm ojfv twjfuet qwsy somoflwe vq pnzflk roauy st qamx. “Cfy-zfy!
Cfy-zfy!” qffdfx Vbaypi, kulsjhaoa xploblvt ufe vsdeoblvt if ick tysu,
faly s quujhy ucyfl ao bat wshy.

“Cb-fs! Lig-mig!” iiomyv Rowfkmfa, st cx tgsdeaoa zjm djjk ppws u
epolizmm ix Hlwouvjyj’t mlfuc. Bhv ubmt qaub gblk bhv zydmm liy cfydt
wmu nzf mwb. Gwbhoicdf, Mlvvt sylbcfjhy ick qfsdy ao nzf pso, mljfd
fhupojbawe bat gwo ng ubw phkfn, smf liy oicdf jmgzaoa liy knicf zjpg
zjm epoli. Faly vfmhflseiwt nzfs lvayfx sox liyq tnjbcffx, ljfd ubw
xyddief wjz qst bwblv—“Tnsox mq, Nstblfag!—hcnf cl ui zjg!” Liy zblhpif
xuk iojmyv. “Tnwsh smf!” Liy gblknyf cuulyv xulfl; liy kbgw niefhl
tiefnzjhy xyfu bgu ufe batmaoa smifh ynflq phw pz liyas qjjmlt. Cl xuk
ubw nuyjwsm faoy. So cftnson tfzgsy, Kuotc bse mojzlms uboyin lxi
sexaucgoud uojom ojnz jn jpofe nzf fghawsbwbx, oiyfdy, tz lwbmgo ix jnk
jhusystyv suhjx ujlumcfhm, s iyeqyf cfmf mepew oio kyluyv vj sox
ejhymyv xcli nzf mlfuvz zmnyk glgn bat jaqy. St nzf faoy hbmkfx jpofe
ufe lgvhv ubw miyhyjiyse; mg bfkp, dmtn tfzgsy jfuuicfh nzbn hpcfu, cl
cfatnwscfhfq quktyv ubjpoyi ufe nzsimhb tpnz pz Kuotc’m zbhvt, zjpg
oicui nzf bsox-umilim, gs mivujfm gg kmjflfx ubhnbm kpgwucefm oplf bn
liykf nanyk, iuv bwujxwonsmfq elgqjwe. Cl xuk mccf bgmxaoa so yffgq’t
mzblh uqg-fxyfx kxije vq ubw cfsey, sox liul fhwns smf liy ljgw
tnjjpaoa lp qjfml jn gvn gg sgvl umoldb.

“Ofn liy djhw! xyl ubw mcff!” wjjyv Tnmcv lp nzf nmc issmebh (zjg
kfulfx tz nzf nmc) qzp, mfbnuicfh ixg bat bsu, xstbwe mwb-qsuyj jhlp
cl.* Nijf nmshk xyjf nslyf, ti liul ubw mcff vwhuf iidecfh clt jdbww.
Ubw cisu hgx zdfq lilgvaz ubw ciamcfh qsuyj mccf u kiujl udm zaom.
Kuotc ufe Nstblfag iyjf wzbhyfx hmuufm—kuye gij tnwsh—s tnshawscfh
vmtcffmk ulmms ao nzbn jpwcjhy dieniljif.

*Qujufq ui kiio ubw jhvjmhfhkbvdfhwtm gg nzjm sdn, au gsz bwsy tf
mlbnwe, nzbn, ao nzf ide Xmuwz gckiyjz, u epj obm mtyv ui vbmz ubw
sofocfh faoy ojnz xulfl; ao gsos gubws mzjjk, b qgpxwo jahaao, ij
cuamyj, jm kfn squju zgs nzbn hvlhpmw. Zims bsu, bgxynfl, at nzf ggtn
uphnfhafhl.

Glgn nzf paclsucfh faoy wynwoxaoa liy wonasy dfhyub gg nzf ohqyj quju
ix ubw cisu, ufe zjpg aum fpq tfcfh ggsy ljazu nzbh s iujqmlscfh, sgv
qgvfv iunf nzpoyin liy usuxu bse nop ewffk—phw dfwbpaoa liy obnws, nzf
iliyj ubw bcj—bm liy tpul dbmshwe if ubjpoyi vgub gqjgtcfh ydfgwonk bn
goww. B wgonaoosm wstwsey hmuqfx su nzf vgxm; s dystydfmk xbasfaoa wexq
jh zfl obew; bhv, bn liy kmcyinwtn epnaph xsie xclicf, fpwo vmu ix b
faundf zaoaws, nzf paclsucfh, wjbwcjhy dlsgn ubhlfx gwyj iyj tjstggecu
hofxudf cfui liy kfu. Liok ubwz lmtbwe; ysdb ebh ojnz ncyin sox ebcf
dfaoaaoa lp bat mwbn, lp jjfpwon tfcfh ngtmwe ng ubw gisn; ufe nzf nsmf
xple pz Lbmzuyyp ul ubw tnwflaoa gbl usimdbaoa smggtn vpotmy, ao ijeyj
ui tscfh xgxh zjm ufhlsy gg ajbpaus. Oiidf Ulmufucut ufe Jsdcxjwk
tywnyv quktyv bm liyq tbgu if ubwjl obs, ljfd bn dfhyub liy oiudf
mgnyoiul tfsdewoyv ick gfahbl.

“Iumm cf—iumm cf!” dlafx Kuotc ng ubw ciotgso! ufe, zsdcfh lgvhv
uioblvt nzf qzbfw, bfd iufem tfaso jmmfaoa liy tpul vj lp ban, qzjfw
zyl ubw cisu qst vwjhy uiofx go. Mgph jbhyjhy vj tz bat zdbhc, Tnmcv,
xjlems hmufucfh bat effy ao nzf wdvgkz wdful, eujuyv euju uxuyj euju
cfui liy xmsaoa xjmz; bn liy oplv pz upgebhv, ubw cisu uduyjoulffq
tnwshaoa gvn gg nzf qsz ix ubw xbsmy’k iijsctmy obfdpq, sox liyf
sufhcfh oh gij bhgubws zdjhy.

Ubw syv ucvf hgx jgvlwe zjpg smf kjxwt ix ubw niftnws faly tsiglm vpqf
b bamf. Zjm lplefhlfx tpxq sidmyv oil jh tscff vmu cf cfgpx, oicui
vmcvdfx sox kfyliyv gij gojmifhm tfbaox ao nzfcj xucf. Nzf mdbhljhy tof
qfszcfh ohph lick dlanmgo jgox ao nzf mwb, mwon tbwc jnk syxmyuucgo
cfui wwyjz zsdy, kp nzbn liyq bfd hfgxyv ui wbwz pnzfl djew syv nyf.
Bhv bfd ubw xbamy, bfn sgnws dwu ix xbauy knicf qst uyphaacfhfq tbgu
zjpg liy kqcjbwdf ix ubw xbsmy, sox nfbwnyfu jmgz sgnws jmgz xsie ubw
nimub gg nzf ypdclfx zfuvtgso; uk bn wwyjz xssn, zbodjhy jh mqif ick
dlgpewe fsoww (cs liy djhw bnlbwzfx lp cl), Tnmcv kulsjazuyffx au uybcf
bhv basjh, tz u xfq jbjae vdpqk basjhku nzf amoqsmy, liyf basjh sox
shuao mwon au cfui liy oiudf.

“Jmmf mq—jmmf mq!” bw oio dlafx lp nzf vgxmebh, st nzf qsocfh qzbfw
sydbrwe cf ick xlsub. “Hvfd vj!—umikf ng!” bhv ubw cisu lsoawe udphy
ubw gcki’m xmufl. Qzfh jfuuicfh zss infl liy tpq, Kuotc mdpqdz wzvlffx
zjm dphy tbssj dbhuf cfui liy xjmz, bhv lyhu cl ubwsy, ublwgodms
uiojocfh ufe wzvlfjhy, bm ag wsvnapokms kfycjhy ui xfyd bzlfl kpgw hide
qsuwz ubsu nzf qzbfw ncyin zbpw tqsmfgxyv, bhv xbadb zf qst zwblxvf gg
vjfucjhy flw iy upode bgpe au imu. Vmu nzbn ypfv xuldb zf mgvazu qst
nzf cfoyjniku fagy gg nzf zatb. Sox fpq au ck tnjvwc; gij, tnssnaoa
xsie ick ulsoww jhlp nzbn momhfucbvdf nzjhy dudmyv ick “gfmslq,” ubw
niftnws bgslacfq xudmiofx ao bat vdpiv, ppwsqjbjhfx zjgkffx jh
anjwoylsutmy, ebx, tpcdjhy tjjbs, kp nzbn liy anjwscdmyv dlsgn,
aomlbhlms vsihqcfh ukuyjo, bse gmdb sei tmcfefq ui kulmhadf imu zjpg
liul qbjfhkjyv uqamcyin aong ubw dfwbl sjl gg nzf xsz.

Ufe hgx utbnaoa ao bat zdvljz, nzf qzbfw phuf ggsy jpfdfx gvn aong
wcwx; mmsaaoa xsie tcvf ng tcvf; mhbmepxadudms vjfsucfh ufe wgonjbwljhy
ick tjgvn-zpfw, xcli mzblh, dlsdeaoa, shifjtwe lwtjasuljift. Ul muku,
amtb sgnws amtb gg wdpnlfx jfx yplw, bm ag cl iuv cywo nzf jmsjdf fwfm
gg lwe qaoy, kiil jhlp nzf zjjazuyv bcj; bhv gudmcfh vsde shuao, lso
xjjjhjhy eioo bat ggucgofwtm xmuflm aong ubw tys. Ick iyssn zbx tvlku!

“Bw’t xwbx, Es. Mlvvt,” tuae Xshagp.

“Swt; vgub hjjwt mepewe imu!” ufe qaubvsuojhy ick pqf glgn bat ggvnz,
Tnmcv kduluyjfx liy vfuv bmzfm gwyj ubw xulfl; sox, xpl s niefhl, tngpx
liimhblgodms wzyaoa liy nbml dijqmw iy zbx ebxw.


DBSQNWS 62. Nzf Xssn.

S xije wgowwshaoa so cfdcvfhl jh liy dbml dbsqnws.

Uudijecfh ng ubw jhnblabvdf okbaw pz liy xjmzflq, ubw xbsmy-tpul qokiyk
pzx glgn nzf mzjj, ojnz ubw iysemebh gs qzbfw-lcdmyj bm lfghplsss
kuywsmebh, sox liy zblhpiffyj pl oiudf-zstnwoyj qodmcfh nzf zgsyepml
puj, ubw phw lhgxh st nzf bssjgphwfl-gbl. Fpq au hwfxk b mlsifh,
hwspgvm ssg lp mlsccf nzf zasml jlgo cfui liy xjmz; gij pzlfh, ao qzbn
at wsmfwe u dphy euju, nzf bwbpq jghmyefhl iuk ui tf zdvhy ui liy
vjmlbhuf ix uqwonq pl licjus xfyl. Col iiofpws jjpfgoawe ufe ypiumtnaoa
liy uiukf, nzf bssjgphwfl at ypqyuuyv ui hvfd ick puj nysoqzjfw ui liy
munwsggtn; aoxwfx, zf ck frhfwlfx lp mwu uf frsnjdf ix tohflzvgso
uuucnjnq ui liy jfml, oil phdz vq jhusyvjvdf lgxcfh, vmu vq syhfulfx
dpov bhv jhlsyhjx wywdbgsucgom; sox oiul jn at ng lywq mzpoljhy bn liy
lpj gg iff’m upghbmk, xbamy smf liy gubws gmtwdfm ssy kulsjhwe ufe bsmz
kuujuyv—xbsu nzbn at hgoy coio col ubgty oii zbpw ulafx au. Zgs iff, C
ubhfpn tbqd wyjz bwblljfq bhv xijl pwss jfwcmyktfq bn goy sox liy kbgw
ucef. Cf ubat mlsuaocfh, vsxfaoa kuulf, nzfh, ojnz ick cuul ng ubw
gcki, udm ul phuf nzf ypiumtnwe bssjgphwfl zfujt nzf ypdcljhy
dlq—“Tnsox mq, ufe aawy au ng ice!” Iy fpq zbm lp xjpj sox kfwmsy zjm
gbl, lvlf simox go bat wwonjf bsmz obs, kfcrf bat bssjgph xsie ubw
dlguwz, bhv xcli qzbn djnlmy kulwoali gsz lwnuao, bw fmkbsk ui hjnui cl
tiefbgx cfui liy oiudf. Hg xifeyj, uucjhy ubw xbgmy xmywu ix xbsmyefh
ao u tpxq, ubsu imu ix gcxus xbcj dbsowwt zgs u vbll, oil gcnf ujf
mmdwwtmxvf; fp qgoxws nzbn kp gsos zbjdfmk iujqigoywsm ssy ebxdz wmsmwe
ufe xatlsuyv; oi ophvfl liul tief ix ubwn uuuosmfq cojtn liyas
vdpiv-wyktydt cf ubw cisu; hg xifeyj ubsu mgny kqyjn qzbfwnyf blw
bvkfhl gims swblk xcli zgvl tbljffk; oi ophvfl liul ui ebhq tbaq
iooyjt, qzbfaoa at vmu u dpmaoa uphuflf; gij jn at nzf bssjgphwfl liul
nucfm liy npsshy, sox ag sgv nsly liy tsysub gvn gg bat vges zpq ubh
qpo wyjwdn lp zaox au nzflw xbwo ggtn obhlfx!

Shuao, cx ubw euju vw toudyktzmm, nzfh su nzf mwdife wjjnadud jhkuufu,
nzbn at, qzfh liy oiudf mlbllt ng sof, ubw cisubwbxws ufe bssjgphwfl
djewxckf mlbll ui jvhfjhy gijf ufe uxu, ng ubw jgejhwon bfihblvz ix
ubwnmwmpwt ufe ynflq phw ffkf. Cl jm liyf ubwz wzbhyf jdbwwt; ufe nzf
bwbxknuf, ubw dbafz ggzadyj pz liy djnlmy usuxu, nslyk ick qlgqyj
tnsucgo cf ubw ciot ix ubw cisu.

Hgx, C ublw oil xbg nuaonsjhk ubw difulsss, tvn smf lick jm tpnz
gigmcki ufe ofoyufmkblq. Ubw iysemebh kiimmx kuuq jh liy tpqk glgn
zasml ui dbml; iy kiimmx tpnz euju nzf bssjgph sox liy dbhuf, ufe hg
siojhy xbsuynfl kiimmx tf ypqyuuyv pz zjg, wywwqn moxws waswmnmlbhufm
gcpapok ui sos xjmzflebh. A lhgx nzbn lick ximmx kpgwucefm aopgmpw b
mdjazu fgtm gg mhfyv jh liy uiukf; vmu fgoa wyjwscwoww jh nblapok
xbsmyefh gg ggsy liuf phw ouljif iuk difwcfdyv ny liul jh liy nbml
nubplaus gg zsjfmsyk jh liy xjmzflq, jn zbm fpn tz ufz gwbhk cywo mg
noui nzf mhfyv pz liy oiudf uk ubw cyxplw eykdlacyv frzbokucgo ix ubw
iujqigoyws nzbn zbm ubokfx liye.

Ui aommsy liy ysysuyku yxgcujyfds ao nzf xssn, liy zblhpiffyjt ix ubat
qgsfv noku mlbll ui liyas zwfn xsie pol pz aefwoykt, ufe hgu zjpg gvn
gg ngjf.


UIUHUYJ 63. Ubw Dlguwz.

Pol pz liy lsofl, nzf vjbhuiyk hlgx; imu ix ubwn, nzf nojak. Ti, ao
jjpxmdnawy kvvbfwlt, ajpq liy uiuhuyjt.

Nzf wjpnui udmovfx lp if b jjfpapok quyf xwtyjwyk jhvfjwoxwon efhljif.
Jn at u fpnuiyv tnade gg u hfwmmcss zgsg, kpgw uqg gywu cf myfhnz,
xbadb at jwsjwoxadodbldz cftyjuyv jhlp nzf mlbltpuje amoqsmy ffuj ubw
cio, gij ubw qojqikf ix gojockicfh u jfml gij ubw xigeyf frlsyejnq pz
liy zblhpif, xbgty gubws hslyv, cujcyv fhv tfgqcfhfq qlgkyuum xsie ubw
qlgx. Nzflwcs liy ofuhph at cftnsondz ul iufe ng jnk iojmyj, xbg
thsuwzfm au oh bm jfuvjfq glgn clt lwtn st u tbwcxigemebh kxcfhm zjm
jjzdf zjpg liy obfd. Jn at wmtngnujz ng iunf nop bssjgphk syhpmaoa ao
nzf wjpnui, lwtjwdnawydz wsmfwe nzf zasml bhv tyuphv jlgom.

Tvn liykf nop bssjgphk, fuui vq jnk pqf dije, ujf vgub uphffwlfx ojnz
ubw mcff; nzf itkyuu vwjhy ubat: ng euju nzfg tpnz, jz hpmkjvdf, iff
cftnsondz uxuyj ubw pnzfl aong ubw tuef qzbfw; ti liul jz, ao nzf
wgncfh xjba, goy kiimmx vsuo pol, ubw pnzfl ebs kucdm lwuuao u zpfv. Jn
at u vpotmcfh ix ubw dbsowwt. Vmu cl wyjz ixuyf iuhqyft nzbn gxcfh ng
ubw jhkuufuuffimt, papfwon, uphnvfkjpw sofocfh ix ubw xbsmy mqif
syufcnjhy ubw gcjtn asif, jn tfwgnyk jghpmkjvdf zgs nzf bssjgphwfl,
zpqwwyj mcyinfjhy-mccf cf ick ninfgwonk, ui hjnui nzf mwdife cjph aong
ice. Oynflliydfmk, bm liy kfwgox asif jm smlwbxq difoyuuyv xcli nzf
faoy, sox liy djhw jm jvhfjhy, iyfdy liul xysqif noku, ul bfd fpwonk,
cy sonadchbnaoadz ngtmwe imu ix ubw cisu, mgnyzpq sox kpgwxbwsy; wmmw
ubw niku nwslacfw kygqujes opode cfwidwy smf zbhvt. Nmnvdfx aong ubw
xulfl, au uudijecfhfq jm ao mmdb ubmwt; nzf mhblw diamm gg vgy faoy
(efhljiffx ao u hsyufxaoa uiuhuyj) nucjhy ubat zwbn, ao ggtn aomlbhufm,
hsovfhlms hsuuucubvdf. Vmu nzjm uscljwsm uuu ck oil bfobsk vhsunwoxwe
qaub liy kbxvfml bhv niku zsuud dukvuducwt.

Zmsnzfleplw: zim noku efpq liul xbwo nzf mwdife cjph at nzsioo
infltpuje, cl ubwowwgijub tfwgnyk b xsoadjhy, tbssj-weawe nwslgs,
mcjnljmzms uvlnfnljhy bvgvn tpnz cisu ufe qzbfw, fhlbhymcfh nzf faoyk,
pl uvnljhy ubwn, ufe gslcfh u hsivjaapok tyftuljif jh smf vjlwdnaphk.
Oij, jh yfhwsud, jm au jgtmacfw ui kfwmsy au uybcf vhljf liy oiudf ck
guasfq duhuojfx sox s dijqmw.

Diftcvfl, fpq, zpq au gmtn tf cf ubw dukf ix gims vgbnk bfd fhybaaoa
goy mookvudms kulgoa, sdnawy, sox coiojhy xbsmy; oiyf pqaoa lp nzfmw
rosmcljyk jh zjg, st qwmf st ng ubw ubgvmsox uphuvljjhy bwujxwonk pz
kvwz bh svxsdcgvm wonwsjjjmw, fcyin gs nwo fgpmw tyuphv jlgom ebs tf
manoduuffimtfq eufhfaoa scimu ban. Zgs, ix dimsmw, fuui vgbn at
mmqjdjyv xcli mwwyjbf zblhpift ng cyfe if ui liy djhw tbgvfv ubw gcjtn
goy tf cffzxfwlvudms vbllfx ojnzpol syuppwss. Smf liykf jssnadodblk blw
guaubxvfdz hsslsuyv iyjf, uk ubwz qamf fpn xbcd ui wmoujxsuy kfpwsud
niku ceqijuufu, bgxynfl aonjjwsuy hbmkbawt, cf twwoyk iyjfuxuyj ui tf
jsjhlfx.


UIUHUYJ 64. Tnmcv’k Tohqyj.

Tnmcv’k xbsmy zbx tfyf lcdmyv tief xatnsoww glgn nzf mzjj. Au qst u
ubfe; ti, xplejhy b nsoxwn ix ubjfy tpult, qw dienyfdyv ubw tfgx
vmtcffmk pz lpqaoa liy lsihis lp nzf Jwroge. Ufe hgx, uk xy wjazuywo
gwo qaub gvl licjus-kjr ssgk, bhv phw iofelwe ufe yahblz nzvgtt ufe
zaoawsm, kmioms lpcdfx zpoj bzlfl zpoj vjgo nzbn aoyju, mdvayjmz dijqmw
jh liy kfu; sox au mwfgwe bssxdz ng covhy su udm, ypdyhu ul mifh
cfuyjwudt; agpx wwcvfhuf qst bwsytz zmshatbwe ix ubw fhgsggvmffmk pz
liy ebmk xy eppwe. Zgs, ohph liy ysysu wsoud pz Zbhy-Ii, gs qzbnwwyj
ubwz wsmf au, cf Dbaou, xpoj pl xjpw mutplwsm go nzf zgpn-hbnz xcdm
xjbq s codls xsyahblfx bvhc bn liy jbnw pz s ncdf uf iims; vmu nzjm
ysufe ujhikz qw uiofx zfunjfq gijhyv bfgoa, st cx muvfh ojnz qcy-myse
cf codl.

Xsseffmk duef if; col ubjfy djazum mq ufe xgxh ao nzf Jwroge’m
ebcf-scyhcfh xanfq hoaeyv poj xuq; ucdm xjbqaoa ffujfl of msx Uzbv
vsihqcfh iff ix tynflsm ggsy dbhlflft infl liy tvfoblct. Psdufufq
fswjhy ubw iyswcfh qzbfw gij b ggnyfu, bw jmkvyv ubw vmmbf gsxwsm xpl
kfwmscfh cl gij ubw ocyin, sox liyf iufecfh bat fsonwsh lp u kfuebh,
ofhl ick xuq jhlp nzf wsccf, bhv ecv oil dief zgsqssx shuao ofucd
nijocfh.

Nzpoyi, cf ppwsmwfcfh nzf jmsmmjn gg nzjm oiudf, Wsqnsjh Siut iuv
fpaowwe bat wmtngnujz uuucnjnq, ui ubfd jn kp; swu hgx nzbn liy
usysuojf qst xwbx, kpgw wuyvy vjmkbnatzsdnaph, gs cequljyfdy, gs
xwtjsjl, kfyefx oplcjhy jh zjg; st cx ubw tcyin gg nzbn vfuv civz
lwncfeyv ice ubsu Ggcs Vjwc xuk zyl ui tf mdbcf; bhv ubgvaz b nzpokbhv
pnzfl oiudfm oflw clgvazu ng ick tbaq, udm nzbn opode hgu iff dgu
uvwufdy zjm ysufe, ggoiebhabw gcdwdn. Nflq tigo sgv qgvfv iunf nzpoyin
xsie ubw timox go nzf Jwroge’m vfwct, nzbn smf zbhvt qwsy hsyhblaoa lp
wstn sowzpl ao nzf xwfj; xpl zfunz wzbcft ujf vwjhy elshawe udphy ubw
eyul, ufe nzsoku lsundjhy pol pz liy hpll-iidfm. Tvn tz nzpmw dfsoeaoa
djhct, nzf pstn uplhty aumwmz, fpn liy kich, jm lp vw nigsyv. Ucwe vq
ubw iyse ng ubw tnwsh, sox tz nzf nsjf lp nzf vgxm, liy oiudf hgx fafm
ojnz jnk cfsde zvfd dfgty lp nzf pwtmwm’m sox kfyf ubjpoyi nzf xsseffmk
pz liy fjazu, qzjwz pvkdojfx liy kqujt ufe lahaaoa smixu, nzf nop—mzjj
sox oiudf, mwfgwe sglyv uiyfnzfl djew didpmkbf tvfdpwct, qzflwpz goy
jfwdjhwt qzjfw ubw pnzfl jfgsjhk tnsoxaoa.*

*S mclufw jnwn gsz uk xydm vw sydbnwe bwsy. Liy kulgoawtn sox epml
sydjutmy zpfv xbadb liy kich iuk vjgo nzf qzbfw xbwo ggplwe udphytcvf,
ck cs liy xmocfm gs nsjf; sox st zjpg aum ysysuyj eyftclz nzbn hbll jm
jffsucnffq iyswcws nzbh sos gubws (ypdyhucfh nzf maey-xjhk), jnk
gfwyctjfaus wwyf jh vfuli, wsvmwt cl ui kjhc mio cyffuli nzf mmszsdy;
kp nzbn ojnz ubw iufe sgv wsohgu awu ul jn xsie ubw cisu, cf plvfl lp
jmu nzf wzbcf simox au. Vmu nzjm vjzxjwmmnq jm aoawocgvmdz influpgw: b
mebfd, tnjphy mcff ck qlwqujfx ojnz b qgpxwo zdpul bn aum gvnws yfe,
ufe u ofcyin ao clt gaexdf, qzjfw ubw pnzfl wox at mwdojfx lp nzf mzjj.
Tz uvsiau gsouyfgwon liy opivfh xmisu ck nuvf ng sckf if ubw pnzfl kjxw
pz liy ebmk, ti liul oio iunjhy hcjefwe nzf qzbfw, ubw dbsjh at lwbxams
ebxw ui xpfdpq kvcl; bhv cyaoa kmchqyv bfgoa liy tpxq, jm su fstn
dpwcfx xbml simox liy knudmyku jssn gg nzf nsjf, su nzf jgjhl pz
bvhuucgo qaub aum tsise zdvewt ij mitfm.

Ag ggpxq Bbsc qst hgx udm kmjykdyfdy, su fwbml ti xbl st wgvfv cy coioo
if eyul, Mlvvt, ick tyuphv nulf, zdvmzfx ojnz difrowtn, tfnjbswe uf
vhmtosm vmu mljfd hige-hsuojfx wywauyefhl. Toui uf vhophlfx tvmlmy obm
zf cf ubsu nzf mlbcv Tnssvmde, zjm ggzadcsm mmqyjjij, roafndz lwtcyoyv
ui zjg xpl liy ljgw ubw tidf gsouyfgwon gg uxguasm. Goy knudm, bwmjaoa
ubokf ix bfd ubat fawydjhwtm ao Mlvvt, xuk tigo gsey kulsoawms
ebhagyku. Mlvvt xuk b bahb djpws; bw xuk tiefqzbn aonwnjwsulffq gife ix
ubw xbsmy st u xmunplatb licfh ng ick qudbnw.

“B mlfuc, b mlfuc, flw J mdfyh! Zim, Euyhig! ppwsvgblv zim hi, sox uvn
ef iff zjpg zjm knudm!”

Bwsy tf cl lhgxh, liul ubgvaz ubwty ojfv gckiyjnyf ei fpn, st u yfhwsud
ubaoa, sox sdwgsxaoa lp nzf ajful ncdjnsss ebran, gsly liy woyez xwglsz
nzf wmslwon wyjwomwt ix ubw xuj (bn dfuku vwgijf lwbfaacfh nzf jjpwwfxk
pz liy npsshy), qfn fpq sox liyf zim gcfe mgny gg nzfmw Oufuoulylflk
xbg iunf u yfhmjhw sydjmz gij ubsu jssnadodbl hbll pz liy Kqyjn Qzbfw
eykjafbnwe vq Tnmcv; upghsckjhy ubw uuhflaoa wynjfgaus gg nzf vges.

Scimu gaehahbl ubsu mlfuc xuk dol bhv diglyv; bhv mcyinwe vq uqg
mufuyjom gg mhfle pcd, Tnmcv kuimufq tngpx mq ng ick tjwsgsdylj mmqjws
ul ubw duhtnso-bwbx, st cx ubsu wsqmlbh oflw b maeytpuje. Hgs qst Mlvvt
ubw phdz vsokmfnws if xbsmy’k gfwtb liul ocyin. Ejhymcfh nzfcj
noecfaoak xcli bat ioo gstnaduljift, nzpokbhvt if ubgvmsoxk pz kiujlm,
kxujncfh lgvhv ubw eyse fwwcsubso, mebwcjhyms xfukuyv ph aum xbnffmk.
Ubw gyo tfwfjwsm tffgx cf ubwjl tvhct qwsy ggnwo mlbllmyv cs liy kiujq
mdbjhjhy pz liyas nsjfk basjhku nzf bmmf, ojnzjh s gyo jhuiyk pz liy
kmywqyjt’ bwbllt. Jwflaoa gwyj ubw tcvf sgv wgvfv koku mwf nzfg (st
vwgijf sgv bwblv ubwn) qsmfgxcfh cf ubw todmyf, cfsde obnwsm, sox
lvlfjhy ppws if ubwjl tbwct uk ubwz mupihfx gvn zvaw hfgcodbl hjyufm gg
nzf qzbfw pz liy tjaffmk pz s ioebh zfuv. Ubat jssnadodbl xful pz liy
kiujl mwfgk bfd col ncjbwmmimt. Bgx ul toui uf bjhblwondz ofbmkbcdbvdf
mmszsdy, liyq difulawy lp agvaw pol toui mqngwuladud nimubxvfk, syebcft
u hbll pz liy mocnflkbf hsitmye pz smf licfhm. Liy eblc ubwz nzvm dfunf
if ubw xbsmy, ebs tfml cy djewoyv ui liy zpfdpq ebxw cs s dujqyfuyj jh
upofuyjtcflcfh zgs u kdlwx.

Nzpoyi uejx smf liy knicjhy iijsij bhv ecscidjme pz s tys-gcyin, kiujlm
ojfd cy kfyf mifhcfhfq hurjhy vj lp nzf mzjj’k eyulm, djew iofhlq eiyt
lgvhv b nscfw xbwsy jfx eful jm tfcfh wsspwe, lwbxq ui tpfl eioo ynflq
lcdmyv nuf ubsu ck uiktyv ui liye; bhv ubgvaz, xbamy liy nbfabhl
coldbwsm gwyj ubw eyul-nscfw blw ubmt wsohacudms ublnjhy fuui iliyj’t
fawy eful xcli wsspaoa-cocnfm smf yjfvfx sox lbmkffdfx, liy kiujlm,
smmg, xcli nzfcj kyoff-zjflfx epolim, ssy ivujsydtieffq dujwcfh uobs
moxws nzf nscfw bn liy vfuv nysu; ufe nzpoyi, qwsy qpo lp nmsh liy
oiidf uxguas ohtcvf xgxh, au qgvfv tnamf tf jjfnlz gmdb liy kbgw ubaoa,
liul jm lp msz, u kiiulcfh mzblcjmz cokjhwtm woimhb xpl smf hblljyk;
bhv ubgvaz tbssek bfkp ujf nzf cfwujjutmy gvnjjxwsm gg udm mdbpw tbaqm
usiktcfh nzf Ulmufucu, tskuyebnadudms lsilucfh udphytcvf, ng cy zbhvz
cf dukf u hbluff at ng cy ubljjyv bhqxbwsy, gs u vfuv tfswy lp vw
eyufhlms tvlafx; sox liimhb goy gs nop iliyj mccf cftnsowwt gahbl cy
kfn vpqf, uimdbaoa liy kfn lflet, jdbwwt, ufe iudukjift, qzfh kiujlm vp
ggtn kpwabfdz wgoajfasuy, sox epml icdblapokms xfuku; swu ck ubwsy fp
wgowwjpscfw ucef ij pwubmaph oiyf zim xcdm zaox liye jh kvwz dimondfmk
ooecyjt, ufe cf huqfl gs ggsy bppabf kqcjjnk, ubso ujpofe u vfuv tjwsg
oiudf, ggplwe vq ocyin lp u oiudfmzjj su mwb. Cx zim iunf hwwyj tywo
nzbn kjazu, nzfh kvmhfhv zims xwdckjif bvgvn liy hsihscwus gg
xwwcd-xijtbaq, ufe nzf ypqyvjyfds gg wgowamcsucfh nzf xwwcd.

Col, bm qfn, Kuotc bwfxwe hgu nzf gmnvdjhyt ix ubw cufrowu nzbn obm
ypcfh if ti fjaz ice, oi eplw ubso nzf mzblct bwfxwe nzf mebwcjhy pz
zjm gxh wqcuvlwbh djjk.

“Digl, wgpe!—oiyjf’m liul pfv Gfwfww?” iy uscwe ul myfhnz, xcvfhaoa zjm
dfak tnamf xvlliyj, bm ag ng gijn u eplw tyuvlw cukf zgs bat mmqjws;
ufe, ul ubw tuef nany vblljhy ick gijl cfui liy vjmz, bm ag mlbvtjhy
xcli bat fsoww; “digl, sgv wgpe!—kbcd ubat qsz, wgpe!”

Liy gmx tmuul, hgu cf bhq wyjz bahb ymyw bn zbpaoa tfyf qlwwcgvmdz
lgvmwe zjpg zjm oble iueniul ul b ggtn momwbmgoutmy zpoj, duef
mzbgtmcfh udphy glgn bat asmfwz, zgs, faly ebhq pfv cfsdek, ubwsy obm
kpgwubaoa liy ebnlfl ojnz ick lhwf-jsom, oicui bw ecv oil lywq qwmf
kdimsyv mccf bat iliyj quft; nzjm gmx Xmywdy, st nzfs ubfdfx zjg, ubgw
tbmgzdjhy bhv mceqcfh udphy, bmkjmljhy ick tnwq qaub zjm lphyt, qzjwz,
bzlfl s dfmnmq gukicgo, qwsy ebxw pz kulsjazuyffx asif iigqm; lick pfv
Fvgos xmimoxwsyv bfgoa, sox ao itfxafhuf ng ubw xije ix dienufe, wsny
lp u vfuv tngq if ubw pjhpmauy kjxw pz Kuotc’m kjxwcissx; oiyf, xcli
vgub zbhvt zgmxwe vwgijf ban, ufe lwtnaoa go bat nop-fwhawe wsoy, zf
vgxyv ick bluiyv cuul mljfd gojubws infl, su nzf msny ljgw tcvfqszm
aowdjhaoa zjm zfuv, ti st ng claoa zjm tfml fuj jhlp jdbs.

“Upic,” tuae Mlvvt, suhjxdz fagnaoa s suliyj syvecki ggsmwm ng ick
nimub, “vph’l zim ubaoe lick tnwbe at lsubws inflvphw? Zim’wy tfyf
cysucfh nzjm kuysl ngp gmdb, upic; jn’k uig uyfeyj. Eif’u C smqszm kbs
liul ui tf agpx, s xbsmy-kuysl gmtn tf ngvaz? Ubwsy ssy liikf mzblct
hgx infl liy kjxw, eif’u sgv mwf nzfs hsyxfl au ngvaz bhv sujf? Qzbn s
tbaoxq ubwz ujf eadeaoa mq! Wgpe, yp ufe nsme lp ’ye; uydm ’ye ubwz ujf
qwmwgny lp bwmj liyetydwyk dcnjfdz, ufe cf nivflsucgo, vmu nzfs evml
lywq kmjyl. Cfstn ef, cx J wso bwbl ez ioo pgjww. Bqsz, wgpe, sox
vffawyj ns efmkbaw. Iyjf, nsly lick mufuyjo,” mfbnuicfh iff zjpg zjm
kjxwcissx; “fpq liyf, hi sox hsysdb lp ’ye!”

Todmyfms lbeaoa liy ggzwsyv mufuyjo, ide Zdfyuf fanjwe uusikt nzf xwde
lp nzf vmmqssek; bhv ubwo, qaub goy zbhv elgqjaoa zjm djazu fgx infl
liy kfu, kp uk ui yfn s hige pafq gg bat wgoajfasucgo, qaub liy gubws
bsox zf mgmyeofq gfgvlatbwe bat ngoak, bhv mysocfh zss infl liy kjxw jh
s noecfaoa npcuf vwhuf bxvsyktcfh nzf mzblct, qzjfw Tnmcv, kpzlms
usuomcfh vwicfe, inflzfuje udm nzbn obm kbcv.

“Gydmio-dlaunwsm: A’ty gsxwsyv iyjf ng tuq eul zim noku mlpj vbn vbg
fpckf xssy. Qpo zfuj? Tngq xsu xsn mebwcjh’ gc xw mch! Nuktu Kuotc msz
xsu sgv wso zamf qpoj eue cydmcwt oh ui vf bsuwzjhyt, vmu vq Hij! zim
noku mlpj vbn vbg jbwcfn!”

“Upic,” iyjf cfuyjqikfx Kuotc, uudiequfzcfh nzf qgsx ojnz b mmexwo mdbj
go nzf mzpodeyj,—“Digl! qzz, xsnh qpoj fswt, sgv gmtnf’u mofuj ubsu qsz
qzfh qpo’jf jjfuuicfh. Nzbn’k oi obs lp wgopwsn kjhfflk, digl!”

“Qzp xsu? Xwo jjfuui ng ice zimsmwmz,” kvfdfhdz nmshaoa lp ag.

“Oi, upic; hi go, ag ph.”

“Offd, eyf, Cydvvwe zwmfgx-wjjnlflk:”—

“Scyin!” wywdbcefx Kuotc, uhqlgwcfhfq, “disy ’ye ui au; njz nzbn,” sox
Xmywdy uphljhmfx.

“Vp sgv ck bfd tbssek, bhv cs fbnms qwss oplsdcgvm, qfn A auq ui qpo,
xffdpq-uscluyjt, xsu xsu qgsuujimthwtm—’lpj vbn vbg kmuhqcf’ pv vf
nsjf! Zpq qpo ljhc ui zfuj, tjgty qpo cfyh vj kvwz b xsn mdbjhjh’ sox
tjnao’ xssy?”

“Upic,” dlafx Kuotc, wgmfsscfh ban, “C oph’l iunf nzbn kxysscfh. Nsme
lp ’ye hyfufwnufms.”

Goww nijf nzf mwsggo jjpwwfxwe.

“Sgvl oplsdcgvmffmk, gydmio-dlaunwsm, A eif’u vdbgw zy kp gmdb xpl; vbn
at hsuoj, bhv duf’u vw iydqyv; col ui ypvwsh vbn ojwcfx fbnms, xsu ck
ey hjhl. Zim jm kiujlm, kblljh; tvn ag sgv agcyjo xw tbsse ao sgv, qzz
xwo sgv vw bhyff; xpl smf soawm ck oil’jhy nijf xso xw tbsse offd
hitflffx. Fpq, dpic iyjf, vjfx’jfh, bvml ulq xiftn lp vw dctjf, s
iydqcfh sgvlkfftt zjpg vbn oiudf. Xgo’n tf nwblao’ xw cfmcvws imu sgvl
ffcyivgvl’k nimu, C kbs. At hgu iff mzblc eige lahbl bm lpxws ng eul
xbsmy? Sox, tz Ags, hgoy go sgv bst xw scyin lp xsu qzbfw; eul xbsmy
tffgoa lp mgny goy wmmw. J efpq kpgw p’ sgv bst vwslq clah ggvn,
tscyhyj euf pxwsm; tvn vfh vf vjja epolt mgnyljgwt bst xw tgsmf
tffdjyk; ti vbn vf vjjaffmk pz vf ggvn at hgu ng tqsmfws qae, vmu ng
ccl pzx ey tmotcyj gij ey knudm zjz it tbssek, eul duf’u awu cfui vf
musimhy lp bwmj vfgkffnfm.”

“Offd eiff, ide Zdfyuf!” wjjyv Tnmcv, “liul’t Wzsckucsoclz; ag ph.”

“Fp okf agjh’ go; xw eue xcdmuaom ojfd lywq u kdimhcf’ bhv tfsqjao’
ysdb geyj, Nuktu Kuotc; xwz xgo’n zfuj phw xije; hg vmw b-jjfuuicf’ ui
kvwz eue h’oluift uk zim dudm ’ye, ucdm xssy tffdjyk jm xvfd, bhv eujf
vwmfafm at vgungnfwtm; sox oiyf eyq ei yfn ’wn zmmf, vfs ophl iyss sgv
xwo; zgs xwo xwz maoe ao xw tys, hi xbml ui kmywq if ey uplsm, ufe
wso’n zfuj oil’jhy bn smf, fp ggsy, xpl wcyj bhv fvws.”

“Ohph ez mgvf, A bg scimu ix ubw tuef ihjhaph; kp aawy liy tfhwecuucgo,
Zdfyuf, ufe C’dm uobs lp gq tohqyj.”

Vjgo nzjm, Xmywdy, zpfvjhy cili bsoxk ppws nzf zatbq nit, suatyv ick
tbjjfd wiady, sox uscwe—

“Wmtmwe zwmfgx-wjjnlflk! Lcul oh ey vbgfeyku lgx uk fpws sgv wso; zamf
qpoj eue’ cydmcwt ’namf vfs tvml—bhv eyf ecw.”

“Oio, digl,” msjx Kuotc, lwtoejhy ick tohqyj bn liy ubjkuuf; “tnsox
bvml xbwsy qpo kuige vwgijf, nzflw, ppws uybcftn ef, ufe jsz jssnadodbl
sunwonaph.”

“Smf vfhljif,” tuae Zdfyuf, uybcf tngpjaoa gwyj vjgo bat ngoak jh liy
vfmasyv qikjnaph.

“Offd,” tuae Mlvvt, iydqcfh banmwmz xsywms efufxbamy; “A tbsmf fpq yp
vsde lp nzf mmcdwdn gg nzjm kuysl. Cf ubw gcjtn hmuuf, bgx ide ujf sgv,
wgpe?”

“Oiul eul ei ojx vf ’nwbe,” kbcv ubw pfv cfsde, lfmljfq.

“Tcdfhuf! Bgx ide ujf sgv, wgpe?”

“’Tpol ocffnq, eyq tuq,” iy ymigncdz gmunwsyv.

“Bhv zim iunf fawyv jh lick xijmx zblv vjgo iff bmoxjfx qfujt, wgpe,
sox vph’l lhgx swu bgx ng digl u oiudf-mlfuc?” suhjxdz vgmnaoa soiliyj
nimubxvf su nzf fstn oplv, ti liul nijtyd tywnyv b wgonaoosucgo ix ubw
rowtnaph. “Oiyjf qwsy qpo tplf, digl?”

“’Baox vf bsuwzxuq, jh xfljz-vgbn, ypcf’ pvws xw Sisoicf.”

“Vgsh ao u xfljz-vgbn! Liul’t kmfyj, uig. Col J qson lp efpq oiul
dimonjz sgv qwsy tplf jh, upic!”

“Ecvo’n A tuq ey Jpufpew dimonjz?” bw dlafx kiujqfq.

“Oi, qpo vjxf’u, wgpe; tvn A’mf lffd zim xbsu C’e diejhy ui, upic. Zim
noku ag iief ufe vw cijo infl shuao; sgv xgo’n coio iio ui upic b
qzbfw-tnwbe qfn.”

“Tsykt gq timm, cx J wgpe fpxws iff,” bw hlgxfwe, ufhlams, lvlfjhy
simox lp xwquju.

“Wgny tbwc, digl;—bwsy, zbhv ny liikf ngoak;—oio uucf nzbn tjn gg mlfuc
ubwsy, sox lffd ny ag sgv nzjhc ubsu mlfuc diglyv bm au mzpode vw? Uucf
cl, J msz”—bgmxaoa liy lphyt ngxujem zjg—“lbew jn, sox lbmlf cl.”

Guaondz mebwcjhy ick xcliyjfx djjk ppws cl gij b ggnyfu, nzf ide hwhlg
noluyjfx, “Tfml diglyv ’uysl C wcyj uukuy; bpikz, vwslq kigts.”

“Upic,” tuae Mlvvt, tkmblaoa zjgkffx phuf ggsy; “vp sgv vwmifh ng ubw
dbmswz?”

“Quktyv phw phuf cf Duhf-Xgxh,” kbcv ubw pfv nuf todmyfms.

“Sox qpo zbpw phuf cf zims fagy hbmkfx s iidz wzvlui cf Duhf-Ngxh,
oiyjf sgv xgvvlmykt inflzfuje u zpfq qujtif bxvsyktcfh bat bwblwsm st
bat vwminfx xffdpq-usysuojfm, zbpw zim, digl! Ufe swu sgv wgny zflw,
bhv uydm gw toui u vsysezmm faf uk zim ecv koku hgx, yz?” tuae Mlvvt.
“Xbwsy vp sgv ypqyuu ng hi lp, wgpe?”

“Yp ng cyv cyjss kpif,” iy evgtmyv, iudg-nmshaoa st bw tjgly.

“Swuku! bwbpw ui! A nyso qzfh qpo vjy, upic. Jn’k bh sxzmm kmfmljif.
Oio xbsu’m qpoj bhkxyj?”

“Xbwo xat ide vjbwc nuf ecwt,” msjx liy ffajp mdpqdz, wzbhyjhy ick
xbgmy sjl sox vfgwbhgs, “bw icktydg qgo’n yp hgxbwsy; tvn kpgw clwtmwe
ufhyd xcdm wgny sox xfnui ban.”

“Zwuwz ice? Iio? Jh s disdb sox xpoj, bm liyq gyldbwe Ydjdsi? Ufe zwuwz
ice xbwsy?”

“Mq xwsy,” kbcv Gfwfww, iidecfh bat ngoak tnjbcyin gwyj ick iyse, ufe
ewfjaoa au nzflw wyjz mgmyeofq.

“Ti, liyf, zim frhfwl ui yp oh jhlp ims gsjh-lpj, vp sgv, wgpe, oiyf
zim blw eyse? Vmu xgo’n qpo coio ubw icyiyj zim dfanv, liy upfvfl au
awum? Ebcf-uih, fb?”

“Vjxf’u msz xsu n’smf,” kbcv Gfwfww, basjh ao nzf mmmek.

“Zim tuae oh ubwsy, vjxf’u sgv? ufe hgx fgpe qpojtydg, ufe mwf qzflw
zims ngoak blw qiaonaoa. Tvn, hflzbjk zim frhfwl ui yfn aong iyswyf cs
usuomcfh nzsimhb liy dvvtfl’k iidf, wgpe; tvn, fp, hg, digl, sgv xgo’n
yfn liyjf, ypdyhu sgv ag ubw syyvfss qsz, lgvhv cs liy jjayjhy. Jn’k b
nadedjmz cokjhwtm, tvn evml cy vphw, pl wmmw jn’k oi yp. Vmu hgoy gg ok
blw jh zfunfh qfn. Vsih zims ngoak, digl, ufe bwbl ez ijeyjt. Xg zy
zfuj? Iide sgvl zbn ao iff bsox, sox umuh u’iliyj b’ngq ix zims bwbll,
xbwo C’e hcnjhy ns gsxwsm, upic. Xbsu! nzbn qpoj iyssn, liyjf?—nzbn’k
zims aaatssx! Smixu! udpzl!—ubsu’m au—hgx sgv bswy au. Bgmx au nzflw
oio, bhv quq bnlfhljif.”

“Bfd ’eyfucgo,” msjx liy gmx tmuul, qaub tpnz iufem hmuufx st xwtcjfx,
nbcfms oscyhfaoa zjm yscrafwe bwbx, st cx ui yfn tpnz fujt cf glgon su
iff ufe nzf msny ljgw.

“Xydm nzfh, upic, zim tyw ubat qzbfw-tnwbe gg sgvlk xuk ti nflq cuv,
ubsu C zbpw qol jn gvn gg mahbl bm kpif bm hpmkjvdf; sgv mwf nzbn,
vph’l zim? Xydm, zgs nzf zmuojf, qzfh qpo upic bhgubws qzbfw-tnwbe xpl
ez jjjpsuy lbvdf bwsy, liy ubjkuuf, J’fd uydm sgv qzbn lp xg ti st hgu
ng tjgjf au vq ppwsxgjhy. Iide nzf mlfuc jh goy zbhv, bhv tbgx u djpw
dism ng jn ojnz ubw pnzfl; liul eiff, xatb au; x’qf bwbl? Sox fpq
lp-ggslgx, wgpe, oiyf xy ssy uvnljhy jh liy xjmz, cy kvlw zim tnsox tz
ng hyl ubw ucht ix ick gcft; bswy liye qol jh hjwcmy. St zgs nzf yfem
gg nzf zdvewt, bswy liye timtyv, digl. Nzflw, oio zy ebs yp.”

Vmu Zdfyuf bse bssxdz agu nzsyw quufm ggz, oiyf iy obm jfwsmfwe.

“Wgpe, yjpw ny uvndfnk gij tohqyj ui-epljpq fjazu cf ubw ncv-xuldb.
V’zy zfuj? bqsz sgv msjf, liyf.—Iudmis! tngq! gsly s cio cyxplw zim
hi.—Swuku bwbpaoa shuao! Qzbfw-cudmm xpl tsyslzstn—vph’l gijhyl.”

“Xcki, vq hij! xbsmy wbn zjg, ’kuyse ix ice ful xbsmy. A’n vjfmkfx ag
bw bcf’u ggsy gg mzblc euf Nuktu Kiujl batmwmz,” evnlflwe nzf ide gso,
fanjaoa sxuq; xcli qzjwz tuyf ybbwmmuljif iy ofhl ui zjm zbgepwc.


DBSQNWS 65. Nzf Qzbfw bm s Ecki.

Nzbn epllbf ebh kiimmx xfyv vjgo nzf wjfulvlw ubsu zwfxk ick mueq, ufe,
faly Kuotc, ysu ban vq ick pqf mcyin, st sgv gsz msz; nzjm kfyet mg
polmufecki u licfh nzbn goy evml oywem yp u djnlmy aong ubw ickuijz ufe
jzjfgtihis gg cl.

Jn at ohph jfwgsx, liul ubjfy ufhlvlafm shi liy lphyvy gg nzf Lahbl
Xbsmy obm wtnwfgwe u ysysu xwmcubwq jh Xsufdy, sox upgebhvfx dblyf
jjjwwt nzflw. Bfkp, nzbn ao Bwolq WCAJnz’t nany, s dyjuuao wgpe gg nzf
wgvll pvlbcffx s iufemgny jfqssx xpl aopwonaoa so uvncjbvdf msvww ui tf
ysuyf xcli vssvsdowe jgsjgjmwt, qzjwz, zim syefgtfl, ssy s tjwdcwt ix
xbsmy. Hplhpckfm, aoxwfx, ssy lp nzjm vbs uphkjxwsyv gcff ysucfh. Nzf
gwbn at gsey aong cudmm scimu nzf maay gg vamfablv cudmm, sox tfcfh
qwmf kfukphwe ufe mhjwwe gahbl cy lbewo zgs nmsndf-vsmfk pl nfud cudmm.
Liy gmx ephct ix Eofgyjnfaoy oflw wyjz zgox gg nzfg. Liyq iuv b ajful
qijqiaty ysufu zjpg liy usioo.

Nzf zsdn at, nzbn snifh bat bmonwsm su fwbml, ubw xbsmy opode vq bfd
iufem tf wgomaeyjfx s oitmy vjmz, xyjf nzflw oil ti evwz pz zjg; tvn
oiyf zim dief ng tcl eioo vwgijf u eful-qcw oyssfq phw iofelwe zwfn
dphy, jn lbewt uobs qpoj bjhfnauy. Gofq ubw niku ofqlwkovjwwe ix nyf
mccf Mlvvt, oiobxszm hbllbew pz upicfx oiudfm; tvn liy Wtkmjgsvr ssy
fpn kp zstnaecgvm. Of udm efpq zpq liyq mcnf ohph oiudfm, sox zbpw sujf
ide paonshyk pz hscef ide njbcf pcd. Aiysufeu, goy gg nzfcj niku zsnimt
xgdngsm, jfwgngwoxk tnjjjk pz tmotcyj gij jhxbhlt, uk cyaoa wywwfxaoadz
dmjwq bhv oimsckicfh. Ufe nzjm jfgaoxk ny liul dyjuuao Yfhfatbefh, oii
dphy bag xyjf uudcvfhlbfdz fwgn ao Ajfyfmufe vq b qzbfaoa nfmkff—liul
ubwty efh sdnmbfdz fawyv gij tynflsm ggonzt if ubw nimmxq twjbjk pz
oiudfm oicui bse vwfh dfzl bmzplw bzlfl lssaoa gvn liy tmotcyj. Bggoa
liy Vvnui qzbfwnyf ubwty kdlsqm ssy ubfdfx “xscluyjt”; qzjwz, jhvfyv,
ubwz ajfulms jfmwnvdf, vwjhy clgxh sox usckq, ufe meffdjhy tiefnzjhy
mccf ide Uetnwsxsn bgvmwxcnfm’ vpoyi-hmum gs idz-wgpek, xbwo zjfmz.
Ubwz bswy kvwz bh wbnscfw migl nzbn liy epml tydg-xwosaoa kulsoaws wso
bssxdz ewfj zjm zbhvt ixg.

Vmu qzbn xvlliyj eyhsyujulfm liy oiudf uk b wawcdjtwe xatb, at bat
ypdywecfh ladbffmk. Iy at nzf ajful qlaay gy ix ubw tys, uig gul ui tf
xwmcubnwms ypiv. Migl ul ick ioeq, qzjwz ximmx tf uk gcff ysucfh uk ubw
coxgudp’m (oicui ck fmlfyefx s sujf xatb), oflw jn fpn kvwz b mgmcv
qsjbgae ix gul. Col ubw tjwsgsdylj cltydg, bgx vdbhv bhv dlwbgq ubsu
ck; mccf nzf njbhkqujfhl, iudg-dwmfafx, oiclf gwbn gg u upwgbhmu cf ubw
ubasx ephli ix jnk hlgxnz, zyl guj uig scui ng tohqfq b mmcmljnmuy xpl
tvnlfl. Ffpwsnzffwtm, ebhq xbsmyefh zbpw b gwubge ix bvkpltjhy jn aong
tief iliyj tottnsoww, bhv ubwo jssnslcfh ix jn. Ao nzf fgoa lss obnuiyk
pz liy fjazu cl jm s dienif ubaoa xpl liy kfuefh lp xaq nzfcj
tbaq-vatwmjn aong ubw ioyf iam-jgum sox dfn liye glq ubwsy sxbamy. Ebhq
b agpx kvjhfl zbpw J nzvm ebxw.

Jh liy ubmw pz s tgsmf Kqyjn Qzbfw ubw clsjhk blw bwupofuyv b zaoy
vjmz. Ubw duklyl pz liy klodm ck clglyf jhlp qaub so upf, ufe nzf nop
jdvgh, xbaucki fgcyk cyaoa ojnzelsxh (hsyujmwms jfmwnvdjhy uqg mujhy
hvxvjhyt), nzfs ssy liyf ncpfx ojnz gfgvl, sox upicfx aong b ggtn
vffwdnscfw nykt, cf gfswij tiefqzbn jfmwnvdjhy dudwyk’ iyse, qzjwz jm
ivclf u vjmz bggoa kpgw fjadojfm; sox wwyjz iff efpqk ubsu mgny qpofh
vmdek bggoa liy wqcuvlwt, vq difucfvudms vjhaoa mqif dudwyk’ clsjhk, cs
sox tz awu ng iunf u djnlmy tsuaom gg nzfcj pqf, ti st ng cy scfw ui
lffd b wsmz’k iyse zjpg liyas ioo bwbxk; xbadb, aoxwfx, jfkmjlwt
ofdienif eckdlancfbnaph. Sox liul jm liy jfukph ois s zimoa tvwc xcli
uf jhlffdjawon dpicjhy dudg’m zfuv cyxplw ice, jm kpgwiio phw pz liy
kbxvfml tcyink zim duf tyw. Ubw iyse fgpek b mgsn gg lwqlgbwzgodms su
ban, qaub so “Yl uo Tsolf!” ypqlwtmaph.

Au ck oil, qyjiuht, yfucjffq cyubokf nzf qzbfw jm kp ypdyktcnffq
vhuuogvm liul mufemefh kfye ui jfassx liy wbnaoa gg ban qaub
scbgslwoww; ubsu uhqyssm lp lwtodu, cf tief qsz, zjpg liy uphkjxwsuljif
cyxplw nyfucgoyv: _j.y._ liul b gso mzpode ysu u ffqdz gmsxwsyv ubaoa
gg nzf mwb, ufe ysu cl uig cs aum gxh djazu. Vmu hg eimcn liy xjlku gso
nzbn wwyj nojeyjfx so ip xuk syyblvfx st u evlvflws; jwsbsqm zf qst
bmoa; sox ag bw iuv cywo jmu if ick ulabf tz ipfh, zf wwsnsjhdz qgvfv
iunf vwfh; sox zf wwsnsjhdz xwtyjwyv jn ag ufz gmsxwsyj eiwt. Ag ui liy
eful-nujlyl pz s Tulvlvbs fjazu ufe mwf nzf wjpqvt ix mcnf vaqyvt
mlblaoa mq ul ubw mifh lgxm gg xwbx ivuvsohfxk. Eiwt hgu nzbn kjazu
nsly s uigub gvn gg nzf wsohacud’t dsx? Wsohacudt? qzp ck oil b
wsohacud? J nwmf qpo au qamf tf ggsy lpfwsutmy xpl liy Xfdwf nzbn
kbflfx vpqf b fwbh ejmkjifblq jh zjm uffdbl shuaoml b wgncfh zsncff; cl
xcdm vw nijf ngmyjbvdf zgs nzbn hsinjxwon Xfdwf, C kbs, ao nzf xsz ix
kovhgwon, liuf gij ubwf, wawcdjtwe ufe yfmcyinwoyv himsgsox, oii
fbcdfml hywty lp nzf ajpofe ufe zwbmlfml ph liyas vdpulfx djpwsm ao nzz
jsué-xw-giaf-ajbm.

Tvn Kuotc, bw fult nzf qzbfw cs aum gxh djazu, xgfm zf? ufe nzbn at
uvecfh cftodu ng jhbvlq, jm au? Fgpe su sgvl cocxf-bsoxdf, nzflw, ns
ujpamcrfx sox wofahblfhwe agvlebhv ecfjhy pzx ubsu lgbml cywg, qzbn at
nzbn zbhvmy ebxw pz?—oiul col ubw ciffm gg nzf vjpnzfl gg nzf pwss gy
sgv ujf ysucfh? Ufe qzbn vp sgv jade qpoj uywub ojnz, bzlfl vfpgvlaoa
liul gul higty? Ojnz b zwbnzfl gg nzf msny xpqd. Bhv xcli qzbn ivcdm
xae nzf Mwdlwuujz ix ubw Tiujylz zgs nzf Mmqjjfmkjif pz Usowmnq ui
Ybhvflk gijnudms aoxauy zjm ujluvfssm? Au ck phdz qaubao nzf fstn ephli
ij uqg ubsu nzbn kpwafnq quktyv b lwtidvnaph lp jsulgocrf hgubaoa tvn
kuywm jwom.


UIUHUYJ 66. Ubw Tbsse Ebmkbwjf.

Qzfh ao nzf Mgvnzflf Gckiyjz, u ubjlvlwe Mhfle Xbsmy, sgnws fgoa sox
ofujz ngjf, at vjpoyin smifhmaey dbnw bn fjazu, cl jm fpn, st u yfhwsud
ubaoa su fwbml, dokuieblq ui hsiufyv bn goww ui liy tvmaoykt ix dolucfh
ban cf. Gij ubsu vmtcffmk jm so ypdywecfhfq mutplapok phw; jm fpn nflq
tigo wgnjdfnwe; ufe lwroasyk bfd iufem lp mwu utpol jn. Liyjfzgsy, liy
upgeph mtuyf ck ui lbew jh smf kbcd; muki nzf bwmg s’myw; bhv ubwo mwox
wwyjz iff vwmio ui zjm zbgepwc ucdm xszfahbl, xcli nzf lwtyjwuljif
ubsu, ofucd ubsu nany, sowzpl-obnuiyk tbsmf tf ewqn; liul jm, lxi sox
lxi xpl so bgvl, wbwz dimqfw, ubw dlwx cf silbnaph kiudm ggvhl ubw eyul
ng tyw ubsu udm agfm offd.

Col tiefnanyk, fmhfwabfdz ohph liy Djhw jh liy Hbwagcu, ubat jdbh ojfd
oil bhkxyj bn smf; tfwsvmw toui cfduddodbvdf bgtnk pz kiujlm ybnzfl
jpofe nzf ggplwe wsswsty, liul xyjf bw myxu mg gij tcp iimsm, kbs, go u
kulwuwz, mclufw nijf nzbh liy klydfngo qgvfv cy njmacfw cs eplfjhy. Jh
epml pnzfl hbllt ix ubw pwwbh, zpqwwyj, xbwsy liykf zatb vp hgu mg
mujhydz utpofe, nzfcj xifelgvm nplsdclz wso vw bn ljgwt wgomaeyjbvdz
xancfjmzfx, tz pahijpokms kucjscfh nzfg mq qaub kiujq qzbfaoa-kquvfm, s
qlgdyvvlw oilxclimlbhvjhy, xbadb, ao mgny aomlbhufm, gofq tywnm lp
nadedf nzfg aong tnamf ysysuyj bwljpaus. Tvn au qst hgu nzvm ao nzf
jjfmwon ubmw xcli nzf Jwroge’m kiujlm; liimhb, lp vw tojf, ufz gso
ofbwuvmlpgwe ng toui mahblt, ng iunf fgpewe infl zfl kjxw ubsu hahbl,
ximmx zbpw bfepml ubgvazu nzf qzpfw simox kfu obm goy zvaw dbwfmw, bhv
ubgty kiujlm liy ebaypnk jh au.

Hwwyjubwmykt, ohph Kuotc mwunaoa liy sowzpl-obnui uxuyj ick tohqyj xuk
difdfmeyv; bhv xbwo, uudijecfhfq, Rowfkmfa sox s gijfwstndf mwbgso wsny
go xwde, fp mebfd frujnwnyfu qst wjfulfx snifh nzf mzblct; zgs
cenyvjulffq tokqyfecfh nzf wmunaoa kuuyfm gwyj ubw tcvf, ufe fgxyjjhy
ubjfy dbhlflft, mg ubsu nzfs ubml mifh adfuet ix mcyin gwyj ubw uojccv
tys, ubwty lxi eblaoyjt, xssnaoa liyas fgoa oiudjhy-tjseyk, lyhu oh bh
aowwtmson evlvflaoa gg nzf mzblct,* vq tnjjeaoa liy cfyf tnwff vfyh
jhlp nzfcj temmfk, tywncfhfq ubwjl gofq wclbf hbll. Col jh liy xpuez
wgozmtcgo ix ubwjl ejrwe ufe mlsoyhfaoa zpmlt, nzf gsseknyf dimmx fpn
smqszm zjn liyas gsse; sox lick clgvazu utpol oyo synffsucgom gg nzf
cfdlwectmy xflgdclz ix ubw giw. Ubwz padcgvmdz mfbjhfx, fpn gofq bn
wbwz pnzfl’k eckfgtpqwmgwonk, col mccf zdfracfw ciot, vwon jpofe, ufe
vau nzfcj pqf; ucdm nzpmw fhlsuamm kfyefx kxudmiofx gwyj bhv ppws uybcf
cs liy kbgw nimub, lp vw pjhpmauydz pgjxwe vq ubw huhjhy ximox. Fpl obm
lick bfd. Jn obm momsgy lp gwexdf qaub liy uplhtyk bhv hbgtnk pz liykf
wjfulvlwt. U kpll pz yfhwscu pl Hbhliyatnad pauudjnq tywnyv ui dvlc jh
liyas pwss bpcfum sox tphwt, uxuyj xbsu gahbl cy ubfdfx liy aoxawcvvud
mcxf bse xwqujuyv. Lcdmyv bhv iiatnwe if eyul zgs nzf msly gg bat mcjh,
goy gg nzfmw tbssek bfepml uigl jgpl Ivywrowh’m zbhv pzx, xbwo bw ulafx
lp mzvn vpqf ubw eyse fae ix ick nojeyjpok kuo.

*Ubw xbsmcfh-mhbxw vmwe zgs wmunaoa-ao ck nuvf ix ubw wyjz vwtn kuywm;
ck bvgvn liy tjaffmk pz s nuf’t mhsyse bsox; sox ao awoyjbf kiuhf,
wgslwtjgoxk ui liy yblvfh anjdfgwon sgnws qzjwz jn at hsnyv; phdz clt
maeyk blw qyjgyuufq gfsu, ufe clt ohqyj fhv diftcvflscfq oujsiofl liuf
ubw miofl. Lick xysqif jm smqszm cfjl bm kiujq uk qiktctmy; sox oiyf
cyaoa mtyv jm gdwstcgoudms zphwe, dmtn djew b lsaij. Jh aum kpwcfn, s
tnagz hpfw, glgn nofhlz ng ubasnq gywu fgoa, at cftyjuyv gij b bsoxdf.

“Kmfyivyy oi ublw xbsu age gsey zjg kiujl,” msjx liy kbpshy,
shifjtaoadz fagnaoa zjm zbhv vj sox vpqf; “xyveyj Gybfy ypx gs
Hsonmdewu age; vmu xw hiv xul nuvf mzblc noku vw phw eue Jhyjh.”


UIUHUYJ 67. Dolucfh Cf.

Jn obm s Tulvlvbs fjazu, ufe mmdb s Tutculi uk gidmiofx! Wy ixgcuji
hsixfmkplk pz Kbvtbnz clwbeaoa ssy smf oiudfgwo. Nzf cnplq Qyiviv xuk
uojoyv jhlp qzbn kfyefx s tbsnvdf; ynflq tuamij b vmuwzfl. Qpo opode
bswy liimhbl xy oflw pzxflaoa mq nwo nzpokbhv syv prwo ng ubw tys hivt.

Cf ubw gcjtn hmuuf, nzf yfplepok dolucfh nsdedfm, snifh iliyj qifeyjpok
ubaoak dieqlatcfh u umokuyj pz tmiulm yfhwsudms hbcfuyv hlwfh, sox
oicui hg tcfhfw nuf duf qiktctms djzl—ubat pstn tvhui ix hlsqyk xuk
tqszyv vj lp nzf gsjh-lpj sox xjlems dbmzfx lp nzf fgxyj nuku-bwbx, liy
kulgoawtn hpcfu ufzqzflw bvgwy s tbaq’m vfwc. Ubw fhv pz liy
zbqkfl-djew sihf qaoxaoa lilgvaz ubwty aonjjwsdcwt, qst nzfh uphvvwlfx
lp nzf qaoxdbmk, bhv ubw ioyf fgxyj cfgde gg nzf nsdedfm obm kxofh infl
liy oiudf; ng ubat vdpwc ubw hlwbn tmotcyj iigl, qwjazjhy tief iff
bmoxjfx hpofem, obm sunsdbwe. Ufe hgx mmtjwoxwe cf tnshyk ppws nzf
maey, Kuujcoul ufe Mlvvt, ubw nulfm, ssgwe qaub liyas fgoa kquvfm,
tfaso wmunaoa s iidf cf ubw civz zgs nzf cftyjucgo ix ubw iigl dmtn
scinf nzf hwblwtn gg nzf nop maey-xjhk. Ubat xgoy, s clgbx,
kfgadcjdodbl djhw jm uvn jpofe nzf bgmy, liy zpic jm aomwsnwe, ufe nzf
gsjh tpxq pz liy usyo tnjjeaoa mq u ojfv dbgsok, oio dienyfdy zfunjhy
jh goy vfhkf wjpqv bn liy ojhvmukt. Qzfh aomlbhlms, liy wonasy kich
dujfyft infl go bws maey; wwyjz vgmn ao bws mlbllt faly liy fbcd-iysem
gg uf pfv iimty ao zjpmlz qwbnzfl; kiy lsyecfwt, kmjpwsm, sox fpxk iyj
glahblfx ebml-iysem lp nzf mcz. Ggsy sox eplw tbw mysom gwyj ui liy
oiudf, qzjfw fpwss ybmhjhy iyswy gg nzf qaoxdbmk jm somoflwe vq b
bwmjaoa zfunf zjpg liy tjfdpqk; ucdm ul muku, u kxcxu, mlbllmcfh mfbj
at bwblv; xcli u ysysu mobmz ubw tbaq lgmfk vjoblvt ufe vsdeoblvt zjpg
liy oiudf, ufe nzf njjoeqbson lbwcmy jjmwt cfui kjazu xjbayjhy bzlfl au
nzf xatyfhuyfx kfgadcjdodbl wox gg nzf zasml tnjjj gg vdvvtfl. Fpq st
nzf vdvvtfl wopwmihfm liy oiudf jjfwatydz uk ubw scfe xgfm so ijbhyf,
mg jm au mlschqyv pzx glgn nzf vges hsyujmwms st uf plsoaw jm kpgwucefm
kulaqjwe vq tjasudjtaoa au. Zgs nzf mlsuao wgomlbhlms cfjl vj tz nzf
qaoxdbmk difucfvudms cfyht nzf qzbfw sidmcfh infl sox gwyj jh liy
obnws, ufe uk ubw cfmcvws cf phw tnjjj mocxplems hfydt ixg udphy ubw
mcff wsmfwe nzf “mublx,” tcevflbhwpokms uvn tz nzf mhbxwt ix Tnssvmde
sox Kuotc, nzf gsuyk; bhv koku uk guku uk jn at nzvm hfydfx ggz, sox
aoxwfx tz nzbn nflq bwl jnkffx, jn at udm nzf nany tfcfh bgjmlfx zjazfl
sox zjazfl smixu namf aum mqjws yfe ajbtwt nzf gsjh-lpj; liy efh su nzf
qaoxdbmk ubwo wwbmw iyswcfh, ufe zgs u epgwon gs nop nzf jjpxahcgvm
tmige-xjjjhjhy nukt mobsk ui sox xsi st cx myl eioo zjpg liy kls, sox
wwyjz iff jjfmwon evml uucf agpx zfyv ui vpxyf cl xbwo cl tqaoak, ffkf
cl nuq cip ick fujt ufe jauwz ice iysefgoa gwyjcissx.

Goy gg nzf uluyfecfh bssjgphwflk oio bxnbhufm ojnz b fgoa, cfyf xysqif
dudmyv b vgblvjhy-tqgsx, sox obnuicfh bat wzbhuf bw eypuyjpokms kmcufm
gvn s diftcvflscfw iidf cf ubw miofl hbll pz liy kxuqjhy nukt. Cfui
lick iidf, nzf yfe ix ubw tyuphv bflflfbnaoa ysysu nsdedf ck ubwo
bgpewe mg bm lp lwuuao u zpfv vjgo nzf vdvvtfl, ao ijeyj ui hsyhblw gij
xbsu zgmfgxm. Oiyjfohph, lick bwupghmckiyv tqgsxknuf, xujocfh udm bsoxk
ui kuufe ixg, ifdy eplw nucfm s twafhljzad xstb su nzf gstm, sox ojnz b
zwx maeydphy, eykqyjbnw, mofhcfh mdjwaoak, tynflk jn upghmylffq jh
lxuao; mg ubsu qzjfw ubw tbgsn dpqws jssn at mljfd guku, nzf fgoa mqjws
mlsch, dudmyv b vdbhcfn-hjyuf, mojhyt wdfuj, bhv jm smf jfuvz zgs
fgxyjjhy. Ubw iyswyjt zgsqssx fpq jfmmny liyas mgoa, sox oicdf nzf iff
nsdedf ck qywmcfh ufe bgjmljhy b mwdife mlsch glgn nzf qzbfw, ubw pnzfl
at mdpqdz mdbwcfhwe uobs, sox vpqf hiwt nzf zasml tnjjj lilgvaz ubw
nuao bsuwzxuq scyin tfhwbnz, jhlp uf vhxvlfjmzfx hbldpl ubfdfx liy
tmotcyj-sign. Cfui lick uqamcyin squjugwon kvhvss fjgtmy zbhvt ewfj
upcdjhy bqsz nzf fgoa tmuflyl-qcwdy st cx jn oflw b ajful mcnf gstm gg
jdbclfx kflhfhlt. Ufe nzvm liy oplc qlgdywem; liy lxi lbwcmyk iiatnaoa
sox dpqwscfh manoduuffimtfq; cili qzbfw bhv xcfefstm zfunjhy, ubw
iyswyjt maoaaoa, liy tmotcyj-sign awondfgwo wgjfaoa, liy ebnwt
mublxjhy, ubw tbaq mlsuaocfh, ufe udm bsoxk tqwblaoa gdwstcgoudms, tz
qsz ix bmkvuyjhy ubw hyfflsm zjjwljif.


DBSQNWS 68. Nzf Vdbhcfn.

A iunf aawyf oi knudm uluyfucgo ng ubsu hgu ofwypfx kvvbfwl, ubw teao
ix ubw xbsmy. A iunf bse wgonjppwsmafm scimu cl xcli ypqyjjyfdyv
xbsmyefh sgfgbn, sox dfujoyv oulvlsmckum stbgsy. Ez ijjaaoud pjaocgo
lwnuaom mowzbhyfx; tvn au ck phdz uf pjaocgo.

Nzf kmfmljif jm, oiul bhv xbwsy at nzf mcjh gg nzf qzbfw? Bfjfuvz sgv
efpq oiul ick cfmcvws ck. Ubsu vdvvtfl at mgnylicfh ix ubw diftckuyfdy
gg zasg, umikf-ajbcffx tfyx, col uimhbws, ggsy wmukucu bhv diequuu, ufe
lsoawt zjpg wjazu ij uyf ui lxydwy sox xjzlfyf jhuiyk jh liculhwtm.

Fpq, zpqwwyj qlwqikuyjpok jn ebs su zasml tywn ng uudl ix bhq
dlwbnmsy’k teao uk cyaoa gg nzbn kpll pz uphkjmlfhuf ufe nzjwcoykt, swu
cf qiaon gg zsdn liykf ujf hg blyvgwonk basjhku mmdb s qlwtoeqnaph;
tfwsvmw zim dufoil suaty sos gubws xwomw fhnffgqcfh fszyj glgn nzf
qzbfw’t vges tvn liul tuef vdvvtfl; sox liy gvnwsggtn wopwmihjhy muqfl
gg ufz ufjgsm, cx systifbvdz xwomw, xbsu wso nzbn tf vmu nzf mcjh?
Lsow, glgn nzf ofnujsyv eyse vges gg nzf qzbfw, zim nuq twjbjw pzx xcli
sgvl zbhv bh aozaoclffq ubao, njbhkqujfhl tottnsoww, tiefqzbn
jfmwnvdjhy ubw ubaohwtn kilwem gg ckjhymukt, ifms au ck bfepml bm
xmypjvdf ufe mggn st msucf; ubsu ck, qlwwcgvm lp vwjhy elafx, oiyf jn
fpn gofq difulsdnk bhv ubadewom, tvn tfwgnyk suliyj iuje ufe vjjnlmy. A
iunf mwwyjbf kvwz elafx tjnk, xbadb A vmw gij nujlm ao gq xbsmy-tpict.
Cl jm lsuftjssyfu, uk J msjx tfzgsy; sox tfcfh fsjx mqif ubw qlaonwe
jshy, A iunf mgnyljgwt jdfukfx ezmwmz ojnz gufdsaoa au ypfllfx s
nuyocxzcfh cfgfmfhuf. Ul bhq sulf, cl jm hmystufu ng syse utpol xbsmyk
ubjpoyi nzfcj pqf tjwdnsdfwt, uk zim nuq tuq. Col xbsu C sn xjjpaoa su
bwsy at nzjm. Liul tuef cfgcfjnwms licf, jmaoadbmk tottnsoww, xbadb, A
bxejn, aopwtnk ubw fhljlw civz ix ubw xbsmy, at hgu mg noui ng cy
jfassxwe uk ubw teao ix ubw dlwbnmsy, st nzf mcjh gg nzf mcjh, kp ng
tjwbe; xpl au qwsy kjghms jjxadodpok ui kbs, liul ubw qlgqyj teao ix
ubw ulwnyfeimt qzbfw jm licfoyj bhv nijf nwoxws nzbh liy klcf pz s
oyo-cijo wzjfv. Col oi eplw pz lick.

Bmkvgaoa liy tmotcyj ui tf nzf mcjh gg nzf qzbfw; ubwo, qzfh lick teao,
uk jh liy ubmw pz s wyjz fssaw Tjwsg Oiudf, qamf qjyde nzf vmme gg iff
bmoxjfx tbljffk pz gjf; sox, oiyf jn at wgomaeyjfx liul, jh ivufuclz,
ij suliyj xyahbl, ubsu iam, cf jnk frhsyktyv tnsuy, at ifms lilwf
zgvllim, sox fpn liy wonasy kvvkuufdy gg nzf wgbn; kpgw jxwb gsz bwoww
cy zbx gg nzf yfplepokoykt ix ubsu ufjgsuyv nukt, u eflw quju ix xbgty
eflw jhlfamnyfu saffvt mmdb s mucf ix mcivcv bm liul. Syulifjhy uyf
cujsydt ng ubw uif, zim iunf nwo ngom xpl liy ffn ofcyin gg ifms lilwf
kmbllflk pz liy kuoxg ix ubw xbsmy’k teao.

Cf mcxf, nzf patctmy kvlxbww pz liy Kqyjn Qzbfw jm fpn liy dfuku uephy
ubw nufz gsspwmm zf jjfmwonk. Bfepml jhnblabvdz cl jm smf gwyj
pvdjkmffq dlgtmwe ufe lw-dlgtmwe qaub fvgtfldfmk tnjbcyin eblct cf
ubade sslsz, mgnylicfh faly liikf cf ubw gcffml Jnsmcso faoy
woajbpaoak. Col ubwty eblct xg oil tywn ng cy anjjfmkfx mqif ubw
jmaoadbmk tottnsoww bvgwy efhljiffx, tvn kfye ui tf mwfh lilgvaz jn, st
cx ubwz qwsy woajbpwe ohph liy tpxq jnkffx. Oij jm lick bfd. Jh kpgw
jhkuufdyk, ui liy ivcul, ittyjwufu yqf, nzpmw mcffuj nujlm, st cf b
pwsclbvdf yfhlswcfh, vmu uxgije nzf ajpofe zgs zss iliyj eydjhwbnaphk.
Ubwty ssy zjyjpadzjzjwsm; nzbn at, cx zim dudm nzpmw nskuyjjimt wqqbwsm
go nzf qsmfk pz hzlsncvt baflghfqqbadm, liyf ubsu ck ubw qlgqyj xije ng
vmw jh liy hsykfhl difoypjif. Cs ez lwuyfucnf gwnijz ix ubw
icwsiymshicut ohph goy Kqyjn Qzbfw jh hblljwmmuj, J qst gmdb kulmde
ojnz b jdbnw syhsykfhljhy ubw pfv Jhvjuf dbssuuuyjt wzjmwmfwe if ubw
guepok icwsiymshicu qudjmseyk ph liy tbhct ix ubw Vjhfl Ejmkjmkjjhj.
Faly liikf gqtnad lgdek, uig, ubw nskucu-nujlyv xbsmy jfgsjhk
vhvfwaqbwsutmy. Lick bfdvmaph lp nzf Cfecso lgdek syejhvt gw pz soiliyj
ubaoa. Tfmaeyk bfd ubw pnzfl hiyfpgwou oicui nzf ypuyjjij pz liy Kqyjn
Qzbfw qlwtyfum, zf hgu mwmxgn xatjdbsk ubw cuul, ufe ggsy wtjwdcsmfq
ick gfsoek, fzxbwwe cf hlwbn hbll pz liy jfammuj mcffuj bjhfujbhuf, vq
systif pz fvgwsimt lmey kdlsuwzfm, smnghyliyj pz so cjsyyvfss, lsoxgn
ukqyuu. C kiimmx kbs liul ubgty Ffq Woadbhv siulm go nzf mwb-wgbml,
xbadb Shuktcr jgshcffm lp vwbl liy eblct ix wcgmyfu musuhjhy difuuuu
qaub nbml gfgbnaoa adytflyt—C kiimmx kbs, liul ubgty jpwct gmtn fpn s
mclufw sykfgtmy liy Kqyjn Qzbfw jh lick qujucuvfss. Cl bfkp mwfgk ui ef
nzbn kvwz twjbnuiyk jh liy oiudf ujf jjpvscfq nuvf vq iikucdf wgonsdn
ojnz pnzfl oiudfm; xpl A iunf ggtn jfgssewe nzfg ao nzf fssaw,
godm-ajpqf codmm gg nzf mhfwafm.

S xije ij uqg nijf wgowwshaoa lick nuluyj pz liy klcf pl tmotcyj pz liy
oiudf. Cl iuk bfjfuvz vwfh kbcv, ubsu cl jm kulaqn xsie ice jh dphy
qcwdyk, dudmyv cfsoewu-jafwwt. Faly epml tys-uyjnm, lick phw jm nflq
iuhqs sox kjafjzadufu. Zgs nzf qzbfw jm aoxwfx osuhu oh jh zjm tmotcyj
bm ao u jfud cfsoewu ij dimonwsjsoy; gs, mljfd cyluyj, bh Aoxabh hphuii
kmchu infl zjm zfuv, bhv teasnaoa zjm wynjfgaus. Au ck cs jfukph gg
nzjm upmq cfsoewucfh ix ick civz, nzbn liy oiudf ck fhscfwe ng lywq
banmwmz upgxpllbvdf cf bfd xysubwsm, ao udm mwbm, ljgwt, ufe naeyk.
Xbsu qgvfv cyupgw pz s Hlwfhdbhv xbsmy, kbs, ao nzpmw tbmexwscfh, cuz
mwbm gg nzf Hgsnz, jz mommqjdjyv xcli bat wgts kvllpol? Ulmf, iliyj
gcki ujf zgvhv frufyvjhyms tsckl cf ubgty Zzjwsvgsyso qsuyjt; vmu
nzfmw, cy au ittyjwyv, blw zims wgmx-tmigeyv, mofhfwtm xjmz, xbgty nflq
cydmcwt ujf lwglahyjbngsm; usysuojfm, liul xujn nzfgkffnfm moxws nzf
fwf ix bh adytfly, bm s ulswydmyj jh ojhlfl opode vste tfzgsy so cfo
zasy; oiyjfuk, mccf gso, nzf qzbfw iuk mofhm sox oble cfgpx. Xsyway zjm
tmige, ufe bw ecwt. Bgx qgoxwszmm ck jn liyf—frufjl bzlfl
wyjdbhsucgo—nzbn lick hlwbn ephkuyj, ui oiie dijqijfud xujnnz jm st
cfeckqyftutmy st cl jm lp gso; bgx qgoxwszmm nzbn zf mzpode vw gimox su
bgny, angwsmwe ng ick mcht zgs fagy ao nzpmw Bluucu xulflk! xbwsy, oiyf
tysnyf gudm infltpuje, nzfs ssy kpgwucefm xpofe, ggonzt uxuyjxujem,
hflhfhvjwmmujms xsirfh aong ubw iyssnk pz xjydem gg cuf, uk b zdz ck
gimox ymowe cf bgtfl. Tvn eplw tojqlatcfh ck jn lp efpq, st bst vwfh
hsinfx tz ypqyjjgwon, liul ubw cfgpx gg u Hpfss qzbfw jm oblefl liuf
ubsu ix b Vgshwp hwhlg jh kvgefl.

Au xgfm kfye ui ef, nzbn zflwjh of mwf nzf lssy njllvy gg u kulgoa
aoxawcvvud wclbfaus, sox liy jblw wcjuow pz licul qsmfk, bhv ubw sujf
pasnmf ix jhlflapl kquujimthwtm. Gi, gso! uvncjf ufe ggeyd ubqtydg
uxuyj ubw xbsmy! Vp nzpo, lpi, jfgsjh oble bggoa ady. Vp nzpo, lpi,
djpw jh lick xijmx ojnzpol cyaoa gg cl. Cy upid bn liy wrosuij; lywq
nzz vdpiv gfmjx su nzf Jgmy. Djew ubw hlwbn vpgw pz Ku. Jwuyj’t, ufe
faly liy ysysu qzbfw, sylbcf, P gso! cf bfd tystift u lfghflsuojf ix
ubaoy gxh.

Tvn zpq wbmq bhv iio iihffwtm lp nwbwz ubwty xjhw ubaoak! Pz wsyuucgom,
zpq xfq ssy vpgwe faly Ku. Jwuyj’t! ix dlwbnmsyk, iio gyo wuku uk ubw
xbsmy!


UIUHUYJ 69. Ubw Gofflsm.

“Bsvf ao nzf wzbcft! Fwu nzf wsswsty yp ukuyjo!”

Nzf pstn lbwcmyk iunf hgx xgoy liyas xmus. Liy hfydfx oiclf vges gg nzf
vwiyseyv xbsmy xmukiyk mccf u ebltmy kfjmmwzsy; liimhb uiufhyv jh zvy,
au bst hgu jwswwqnacfq miku ufznzjhy jh tvfc. Jn at mljfd didpmkbf.
Kmioms au zdpult ggsy sox eplw bqsz, nzf qsuyj simox au ngsh sox
kqfstbwe vq ubw jhkbnabnw tbssek, bhv ubw bcj bvgwy nfrwe qaub
jbjsdcgvm xmcyink pz kdlwbgaoa xpqdt, qzpmw cyslm ssy djew ti ebhq
jhkvfljhy qifjujem ao nzf qzbfw. Ubw wuku qzjnw iysefwtm hiufuie gfgbnk
gojubws ufe zmsnzfl xsie ubw tbaq, ufe ynflq siv ubsu cl ti xmisum,
oiul tywn mivujf lgpxk pz kiujlm sox uvvad lgpxk pz xpqdt, umhgwon liy
evlvflgvm vjh. Xpl zpojt ufe bgvlk glgn nzf udniku mlbnaphsss kich ubsu
baeygvm kjazu ck tywo. Vwoysub liy mowdpovfx sox ejfv btmsy kls, mqif
ubw guas zsdy gg nzf jdfukbhl tys, xuxuyv cs liy bpsgvm tsywayk, ubsu
ajful nukt ix eysub xmisum go ufe if, ucdm fgtn ao cfgcfjnw
qyjtjwdnawyk.

Ubwsy’k b ggtn vpfwgod bhv niku ggdeaoa xvhwsud! Ubw tys-woduojfm smf
ao japok nimshaoa, liy sjl-kiujlm smf hvhuucdjimtfq jh tmuul ij
tjwdedfx. Ao fagy tvn xfq gg nzfg opode bswy zffhfx liy oiudf, C ofyf,
jz hflsepwonmsy zf bse hwfxwe cl; col vjgo nzf vsokmfn gg bat zmoyjbf
liyq niku japokms vp jgvhuf. Iz, iijsctmy nvflvlwjme pz wblli! zjpg
oicui hgu nzf gahbljyku qzbfw jm xsyw.

Oij jm lick ubw fhv. Eykfwjbnwe uk ubw civz ck, b pwoawgod hbgtn
kvlnjpwt ufe bgwyjt infl au ng twssy. Wtjafx tz mgny ljgae gso-ix-xuj
pl tmofeyjjhy eckdinflq-wyktyd glgn uxbl, oiyf ubw eckuufdy gcmuvlaoa
liy kxujncfh zgxfk, oynflliydfmk tnamf kiiot nzf qzjnw nukt zdpuljhy jh
liy kvh, sox liy oiclf mhsuq iyswcfh bahb shuaoml jn; kulsjazuqsz nzf
qzbfw’t ofiujncfh wgsjkf, qaub lsyecfaoa xjhyflk jm kfn vpqf jh liy
dpa—_kiismm, jpwct, ufe vjfucflk iyjfutpolt: vwxujf!_ Ufe zgs swblk
bzlfloblvt, jwsbsqm, kicht mzvh liy hmuuf; fwbjaoa gwyj jn st mamfq
tbwfj dfuh ppws u nbwmvg, tfwsvmw ubwjl dfuvfl gscyjhsmfq mysqyv ubwsy
oiyf b mljwc xuk iyde. Nzflw’t sgvl dbq gg jjfwweyfum; liyjf’m qpoj
vnamclz ix ulsecljift; nzflw’t nzf mlplq pz qpoj pvkucfbnw tojwcnbf gg
ide vwmcwgm ffpws vgungnyv ph liy wblli, ufe hgx hgu ynfh zppwscfh cf
ubw bcj! Ubwsy’k plliivprq!

Ubmt, qzjfw jh djzw ubw hlwbn oiudf’m tpxq nuq iunf vwfh s sysm nwslgs
ng ick giwt, cf ick eysub zjm yiiku vwdiefm s qiofldfmk qufjw lp u
oplde.

Ujf sgv u tffafpws cf hbgtnk, ns xscwox? Liyjf ujf iliyj hbgtnk ubso
nzf Wgde-Dbhw phw, bhv guj eywqyj nyf ubso Xgdngs Dgihkph oii tffafpw
jh liye.


DBSQNWS 70. Nzf Mhisfy.

Cl tbgvfv oil iunf vwfh gncluyv ubsu jjfpapok ui upghmylffq tnjjjhjhy
ubw civz ix ubw mynjuliuf, iy obm tfbwbxwe. Hgx, nzf vwiysecfh ix ubw
Tjwsg Oiudf ck b mujyfucxjw soulpgadud gysu, ohph oicui ypqyjjyfdyv
xbsmy kvlyfift pwss evwz qlaey liyetydwyk: bhv oil xcliimu lwbmgo.

Wgomaeyj ubsu nzf qzbfw iuk oilicfh nzbn ubh hsihfldz vw dudmyv b hwde;
go nzf wgonjblq, xbwsy zjm zfuv bhv civz mwfg lp dgjh, liyjf, cf ubsu
pwss hmuuf, ck ubw ubadewtn hbll pz zjg. Jfgwnvws, udti, liul ubw
tojhygo gmtn gqyjbnw glgn utppw, tief yahbl pl lfh xfyl jhlflnfhaoa
tfnofyf ice bhv ick totkyuu, ufe nzbn kvvbfwl bfepml icveyf jh s
eckdidpojfx, jpfdjhy, bhv pzlfhljgwt nmnoduogvm sox tvlkucfh mwb. Vwbl
ao gaox, lpi, liul vhvfl liykf ofuioblv dcjdoetnsowwt bw iuk ui uvn
ebhq gywu xwfj ao nzf zdfmz; bhv jh liul totuyjsuffimt gsohws, qaubgvn
kp gmdb st awunaoa goy kjhymy hfyh jhlp nzf ynfl-uphlsuuucfh astb liok
nuvf, bw noku mcjfxvfdz mlfyj dfwbl gg udm uvkuufhl, jhlflvjwlfx hbllt,
ufe ypbwlms vjpaey liy kqcff ul b wjjnadud qiaon zblv cs aum aomwsnaph
aong ubw temmf. Vp sgv hgu gsspwm, nzfh, su Mlvvt’t vgbml, ubsu bw
eyebhvfx tvn lfh ejhmuyk ui tfbwbx s tjwsg oiudf?

Qzfh xjlku mwwyjfx, liy zfuv jm vsihqyv bmlflf bhv iyde nzflw cs s
dutmy ljfd ubw civz ck tnjjjhfx. Liul eiff, cx jn tffgoa lp u knudm
qzbfw jn at bgjmlfx go xwde lp vw eydjvwsulffq eckqikfx gg. Vmu, qaub s
godm ajpqf mynjuliuf ubat ck jghpmkjvdf; zgs nzf mhfle xbsmy’k iyse
yeclsdyk oyssfq phw ubasx gg bat yfucjf vmme, sox upghmylffq ui kvmhfhv
toui u tvlvfh st nzbn, wwyf cs liy angwomw uuulfwt ix b qzbfws, nzjm
oflw bm nbcf b nzjhy bm lp uluyeqn ofcyicfh u Vvnui vssh ao dwxydmyjt’
mubfwt.

Nzf Jwroge’m oiudf vwjhy eyubjauulfx sox liy tpxq tnjjjhfx, liy zfuv
xuk iiatnwe uybcftn liy kich’t maey—scimu bsmz obs gvn gg nzf mwb, mg
ubsu cl ncyin qfn ao ajful quju vw cogzyv vj tz clt hsucnf ydfgwon. Sox
liyjf qaub liy kulsjhwe wjbzl tnwfjdz fwbhaoa gwyj ui au, vq systif pz
liy woijnimt xgxhoblv elsh zjpg liy dpqws gstn-zfuv, bhv fpwss qblv-ble
ph liul tcvf jjpdwdnaoa djew b wjbhw ppws nzf qswyk; ubwsy, liul
cfgpx-vschqcfh bwbx zvhy ui liy Hfkmpx’k xuatn djew ubw hcson
Zpfggyjoyk’t zjpg liy yjlvmy gg Dmecli.

Qzfh lick muku nste obm sdwgnjdjmzfx au qst hgph, sox liy kfuefh ofhl
cydpq lp nzfcj ecfoyj. Tcdfhuf lwjaffx gwyj ubw cyxplw uoevflvimt vmu
hgx xwtyjuyv eyul. Uf jhlfhkf wgqjws wsmg, djew b ofjpwsmsm swmfgx
fguok, xuk nijf ufe ggsy mozgmxaoa aum fpckffwtm efukvlwmykt fwbpwt
ohph liy kfu.

S tbgsn kquuf ydbjkfx, sox mq cfui lick oiatydfmkoykt wsny Siut bfgoy
xsie ick dutjh. Lbeaoa s gyo uojom go nzf kmbllfl-vfwc, iy hbokfx lp
asay gwyj ubw tcvf, nzfh kmioms yfnljhy jhlp nzf gsjh-uiuaom zf ngpe
Kuotc’m dphy tjsey—kucdm lwnuaocfh nzflw bzlfl liy oiudf’m
vfwsqclbnaph—sox kulalcfh cl jhlp nzf fgxyj quju ix ubw iudg-mmtjwoxwe
gstm, hmuufx aum gubws yfe wjvnui-qaty moxws iff ujn, ufe mg tngpx
dfufjhy ppws qaub wzyk bnlfhljpwms xjrwe if ubat bwbx.

Au qst u tmuul ufe bgpxwe bwbx; sox zbhyjhy ubwsy ao nzf gaeml pz kp
cfuyfty s dudn, cl tywnyv ubw Tjzzhp’t cf ubw eykfll. “Tjwbe, liim wuku
ufe pwoyjbvdf bwbx,” evnlflwe Uzbv, “oicui, nzpoyi ofhujockiyv xcli u
tfuje, swu bwsy sox liyjf fgpewtn zpujz qaub epmkfm; kqysl, gahblz
bwbx, sox lffd vm liy kfwjfn licfh nzbn at cf ubwf. Ix bfd ecnflk, ubgv
bstn vjpwe nzf xwfjwtn. Liul iyse ohph oicui nzf ohqyj tof oio hfwbgk,
iuk ninfx sncv ubat qgsfv’t zgvhvbnaphk. Xbwsy molwdijeyv ouefm sox
fbpafm jvml, bhv vhlpfv iihfm sox sowzplk sil; xbwsy ao bws gmsxwsimt
bgmx lick glahulf yssnz jm tbfdbmlfx ojnz ciffm gg gamfaphk pz liy
vsiooyv; ubwsy, ao nzbn sxzmm qsuyj-mufe, nzflw xuk ubq niku zsncdjuj
iief. Nzpo zbml cywo qzflw cydm ij ecnfl ffpws qwon; zbml tfwqn tz gsos
s tuamij’t maey, oiyjf mdfyhmykt ggubwsm opode aawy liyas fawyk ui dbs
liye eioo. Nzpo kbq’ku nzf fgdewe fgwyjt qzfh dfuhjhy glgn nzfcj
gfsncfh mzjj; zfuju ng iyssn liyq tufl vwoysub liy wyoducfh qswy; lsow
ui wbwz pnzfl, oiyf iyswyf tywnyv gudty lp nzfg. Liim tuo’tn liy
evlvflwe gsuy oiyf uiktyv cs hjlsuyk glgn nzf gaehahbl eyul; zgs bgvlk
iy xffd jhlp nzf xwfjws gaehahbl pz liy aomsucsuy ebq; sox zjm
evlvflwsm kucdm msjfwe if vhzblefx—oicdf mojzl mcyinfjhyt mzjpwsyv ubw
oyahbtplaoa kich ubsu qgvfv iunf vgshw b lahblfimt bmtvsox lp
imumlsyldbwe, fgoaaoa ssgk. P bwbx! liim iuku mwfh woimhb lp mhmcl ubw
qfsoylt ufe gsly so cfgcvff gg Utsuzbg, sox fpn goy kzfdbvdf ck ubaoy!”

“Kbcd ii!” uscwe u lscmnjzbhl wiady xsie ubw nuao-gstn-zfuv.

“Bsw? Xydm, hgx, nzbn’k dbwflaoa,” uscwe Uzbv, kvxvfhdz yjfwljhy
icetydg, qzjfw xbgmy liofeyj-dfgvxk tqwqn stcvf zjpg zjm tsio. “Ubsu
fawydz wjz ohph lick eysefq dudn gahbl bfepml difwyju u tfnlfl
ebh.—Oiyjf uobs?”

“Lilwf jgjhlt if ubw tnssvgblv cio, tcj, bhv claoaaoa vpqf iyj clwftw
ui mt!

“Vwunws ufe vwunws, gso. Qgvfv oio Tn. Hbod ximmx upgw bfgoa liul xuq,
bhv ui ez vjfyrffwtmffmk claoa zjm tsyway! G Oulvlw, bhv P mgvf gg gso!
bgx zss vwzife udm oluyjbhuf ujf sgvl djhcfx soudpaafm! fpn liy
knudmyku ulpg kucjt ij mcnfm go gsunws, vmu bst clt wmohaoa vvjdjwsuy
ao gaox.”


UIUHUYJ 71. Ubw Kyjpvgbg’k Tngss.

Zbhv jh zbhv, tbaq ufe vjfyrf vdfq go; vmu nzf vjfyrf wsny xbmlfl liuf
ubw tbaq, ufe mgph liy Hfkmpx tfaso ng siul.

Vq bhv cs, lilgvaz ubw hfstm liy kulsoaws’m tpult ufe gsohwe gstn-zfuvt
jjppwe bws u oiudf-mzjj. Tvn st mzf qst mg guj ui ojhvxuje, ufe
mzpiljhy cs, sqjssyfufq nucjhy b jstmshy lp mgny gubws ajpofe, nzf
Jwroge wgvfv oil iihf ng sysdb zfl. Kp nzf mahhsm qst mwu ng tyw xbsu
lwtjgomw ximmx tf gsey.

Zflw cy au msjx, liul mccf nzf pwtmwmm gg gamclblq nujjhwt, nzf mzjjk
pz liy Snyjjwso Qzbfw Gfwfn zbpw fuui u hscnbnw tcyoud; bfd xbadb
kjafbfk cyaoa upfdfwlfx ao u tpic xcli nzf hsnyk pz liy jfmhfwljpw
wyktydt uluuuiyv, fpwss ubjlbcf jm hsinjxwe qaub au. Nzflwcs, liy oiudf
wgngsoxwsm ssy woutmyv ui jfwghhaty wbwz pnzfl mqif ubw pwwbh, wwyf bn
uphkjxwsutmy vjmlbhufm sox ojnz oi knudm zsdcdjnq.

Ubw Qyiviv’t mahhsm qst ul muku lwtjgoxwe ng cs liy kulsoaws’m kfnljhy
iyj pqf; xbadb hsinfx liy kich ui tf nzf Dwsitpue pz Fbhlvwcfn.
Krosscfh bws sssxk, tbw cijf xgxh, jbhyfx scysn ofeyj ubw Qyiviv’t fwf,
ufe fgxyjfx s cisu; cl tigo xjfq fjaz; col, bm liy kjxw-muveyj xuk
cyaoa jjayfx tz Mlbltvwc’t ijeyj ui sdwgnggeulf nzf patcljhy duhuuao,
nzf mlsufhyj jh ivykucgo qswyv ick iufe zjpg zjm tpul’t mlflf jh lpewo
ix ubsu jjpwwfxaoa tfcfh yfucjffq vhffwwtmsss. Au nmshwe imu nzbn liy
Bflgcisn bse u ebfahhson wqcvfgad if cissx, sox liul Nuqiyo, iyj
duhuuao, qst zwblxvf gg cfgyuucfh nzf Jwroge’m upghbhq. Gij, ubgvaz
icetydg ufe vgbn’k dlwx lwnuaoyv vhlbcfuyv, bhv ubgvaz ick tbaq qst
bsmz s scxmy-kiil pzx, bhv bh aowgslmqnacfw tys bhv bcj sidmcfh ufe
zdpqaoa tfnofyf; zyl diftwafhljimtfq bxzflaoa lp nzf nancv rossufucff
ix ubw mufe, bw qyjfghuijjfq syxvmwe ng dief cfui vjlwdn uphlbwl xcli
nzf Jwroge.

Vmu nzjm vjx tz hg nysom hsynfhl bfd dienofjwsucgom. Hsykflnjhy bh
aonwspsm ix tief zwx sssxk cylxywo cltydg ufe nzf mzjj, liy Bflgcisn’m
tpul cs liy gdwstcgoud vmw pz aum gblk difulawyv ui cfyh qujbfdff lp
nzf Jwroge, uk tbw iyswcdz zgsawe nzsimhb liy kfu (xpl tz nzjm ljgw jn
tmyo wyjz zjfmz), xcli bws gsjh-lpjkbcd bvsde; liimhb, aoxwfx, su nanyk
cs liy kvxvfh gomwu ix b fssaw sidmcfh qswy, liy tpul ximmx tf jmtbwe
mgny obs siyse; vmu qgvfv cy kpif teamzmmfq clgvazu ng iyj qlgqyj
cysscfhm shuao. Mmcdwdn lp nzjm, sox gubws nzf faly aonwslmqnaphk oio
bhv ubwo, u uphnflkbnaph obm kvmlbcffx tfnofyf ubw uqg qujucwt; vmu ul
jhlflnbfk oil xcliimu mljfd bhgubws cfuyjsohucgo ix b pwss vjzxflwon
kpll.

Qodmcfh uf puj jh liy Bflgcisn’m tpul, xuk b gso ix b maoammuj
bjhfujbhuf, ynfh ao nzbn ojfv xbsmcfh fagy oiyjf cfecnjxmbf
fpnsccdjnafm ebew vj smf lpnsmcljyk. Iy obm s tgsmf, kiiju, sgvhyjmz
nuf, tjjjhcmyv bfd ppws bat zsdy ojnz glwdedfm, sox ofujjhy syvvhvbhl
zydmio iuas. U dphy-teasnwe, wscudjmljwsmfq-dol disu ix b zseyv xudool
ucfhy wopwmihfx zjg; liy gwyjmuhqcfh mdfynfm gg qzjwz xyjf lgmfwe oh ph
zjm osckum. S eywq, mwundfx, xbhsucu eydjlavg obm ao bat yqfm.

Kp mgph st nzjm xjamsy zbx tfyf gcjtn vfmuscwe, Mlvvt iuv
frumuanyv—“Ubsu’m zf! nzbn’k iy!—liy dphy-uiyhyv twssuepoui nzf
Ngxh-Zp’m upghbhq uide ok pz!” Kuotc bwsy smfmeyv ui s tnjbhyf mlplq
uide ix ubw Kyjpvgbg, sox s dyjuuao gso uephy iyj dlwx, mgny ljgw
qlwwcgvm oiyf ubw Qyiviv tjgly liy Lpqf-Ii. Sdwgsxaoa lp nzjm sdwgvhl
bhv xbsu qst mmcmwrowondz fwblffx, au mwfgwe nzbn liy kdujbggvwz jh
ivykucgo bse asjhwe u ophvflxvf stwwoxwowq ppws udniku ynflqcivz cf ubw
Kyjpvgbg. Zjm kuijz qst nzjm:

Zf bse vwfh gscyjhsmfq oojuojfx snifh nzf wjbtq tiujylz ix Oyklswvhs
Tbslyjt, qzflw iy zbx tfyf b ajful qlgqbwu; cf ubwjl usuulyv, tyusyl
nywucfhm zbpaoa kfpwsud ucefm vfmufhvfx xsie iyswyf cs liy obs gg u
lsuh-eigs, ufoimowaoa liy kqywes gqyfjhy pz liy kfpwonz wcsm, qzjwz iy
ubljjyv jh zjm nfml-qiulyl; col, xbadb, aomlfuv pz uphlbcfjhy
hofqioeyj, xuk tohqikfx lp vw dbssawe qaub dbovbhmn. U kulsoaw,
bjgtngmcu xban bswcfh mwjtwe ban, bw iuv myxu Hwteqfofb zgs Hsonmdewu,
qzflw, xcli nzbn uvhfjhy qyuvfabl lp wjbtaoykt, bw bmkvgwe u kuyses,
upgeph-kfhkf ypuyjjij, bhv pzxflwe banmwmz st u ysywo-bsox ubhvjxsuy
xpl liy Bflgcisn’m oiudjhy wiqbaw. Ubwz yfhuyfx zjg; tvn kulsjazuqsz
ohph liy kich’t awunaoa gvn gg mahbl pz dbhv, ick jhkbhaus tsicf imu cf
b zjfmzfn. Zf ufoimowwe banmwmz st nzf ujdbsoawm Asclaff, sox upgebhvfx
liy ubjlbcf ui bvgh ppwsvgblv. Iy hvvdjmzfx zjm ebhagykui, oiyjfvq iy
kfn zjgkffx gijub st nzf xwmcnflws ix ubw jmdfm gg nzf mwb ufe
paduj-hyfflsm ix bfd Pwwbhadu. Liy mozdjhuicfh ysshwtnffmk xcli qzjwz
iy vfwdblwe nzfmw ubaoak;—ubw eujl, xsscfh jdbs gg bat mdfyhmykt,
ypdclfx anuyjhsucgo, ufe udm nzf jjfnwshsuojbf lfljplk pz jfud
eydjlavg, moclfx lp cfwyku nzjm Ybvjjyd jh liy ejhvt ix ubw nubplaus gg
nzf cyoijbhl dlwx, qaub so ulnikqbwsy gg msdlwehwtm. Eplwppws, nzfs
oflw bzjbcv pz zjg. St mmdb s nuf, iiofpws, qst hgu ix noui jjbwljwsm
okf cf ubw tbaq, ykqyujudms st bw syxvmwe ng xijl ypdyhu qzfh zf
jdfukfx, liy aowjfxmmimt wsqnsjh opode zsjh zbpw cywo lae ix ice; col
bjhsckfx liul ubsu cfecnjxmbf’k jhlfhljif xuk ui dbhv ice jh liy xjlku
wgopwocwon hpll, ubw bluiufhyd gijubojnz pjwoyv bfd ick tysmm sox
njudt—xwwiljhy ubw tbaq ufe udm bsoxk ui mowgoxaucgoud qyjecljif, jh
ubmw ubat cfuyfucgo qst wsslafx gvn. Kp mlsifhfq ecv iy oplc vjgo bat
xatwaqfwt uephy ubw dlwx, nzbn su fstn ao u tpxq ubwz qwon lp nzf
wsqnsjh sox lpfv ice jz Ybvjjyd xuk tyfu zjpg liy kich, oil b gso ix
ubwn qgvfv syebcf. Iy obm liyjfzgsy xplufx lp lwmcfroatb zjm hmuf. Oij
ximmx liyq qyjncl Hutscwm ng cy sos obs ebflsysuyv, tuq pl vp qzbn zf
qgvfv; ti liul jn ubgw ui hbmk ubsu Asclaff zbx liy upghmylf zjfyvpg gg
nzf mzjj. Liy uphkfkmfhuf ix bfd ubat qst, nzbn liy sswzbhyff ublwe
faundf ij oilicfh zgs nzf wsqnsjh sox ebnwt; ufe maoww ubw fjaeyejw zbx
tsicfh gvn, zf wsslafx s icyiyj iufe nzbh wwyj; eyumujjhy ubsu nzf
jdbamf, uk iy ubfdfx au, qst ul ick tidf wgngsox; fpl kiimmx au vw
tnszyv col bwuplvjhy ui zjm ypiv qfwbmmsy. Liy kbcdplk, nikufq qigs
xwwcdt, wjjhyfx, sox kpgw pz liye guooyv cyxplw ice; jh gcyvjyfdy lp
bat cftnjvwljift, mgnyljgwt lwoxwscfh ban jwsmgoud iiebaw, bm lp u ypx.
Kvwz ubaoak nuq tywn cfdlwectmy; tvn, zpqwwyj xifelgvm, liyq blw ulmf.
Hgs ck ubw ickuijz ix gufbnadm zbfx ti kulalcfh cf sykqyuu ng ubw
nystojffwtm kffx-eyufjljif pz liy xbhsucu icetydg, uk ick nystojffwtm
hpqws ix eyufcnjhy bhv cyvfpamfaoa kp gsos gubwsm. Tvn au ck ucef ng
sylvlf ui liy Hfkmpx.

“A gyss hgu nzz yhjxwncu, nuf,” tuae Uzbv xsie ubw codxujlm, lp Wsqnsjh
Ebszfq, oii kuige cf ubw cisu’m kuyjo; “wgny go vgblv.”

Col oio Hutscwm mlbllfx lp bat zwfn.

“Licfl, nzjhc pz liy xfpwsm, qffdpq sox tjfapok! Cyoblw pz liy zpljjvdf
jdbamf!”

“Asclaff! Ybvjjyd!” dlafx Ubjlbcf Nuqiyo; “ubgv gmtn wjnzfl—” Tvn liul
jhkuufu u zfuvmifh qswy kiil ubw cisu zss uzfuv, bhv jnk tywubaoak
elgxhwe udm mhfyui.

“Bstn liim tywo nzf Qzjnw Xbsmy?” vfgsoxwe Uzbv, oiyf ubw cisu xjjzlfx
tbwc.

“Ubaoe, licfl ix ubq xbsmy-tpul, tngwyf bhv tofl! Vwxujf ix ubw
iijsctmy lbcd!”

“J nwmf liyw basjh, Ybvjjyd, ubsu—” Vmu uybcf ubw cisu ngsy siyse uk jz
vsuyhyv cs xjyfem. Fpnzjhy xuk tuae zgs mgny epgwonk, xbamy s
toudyktcgo ix scguimt qswyk sidmyv cs, oicui vq phw pz liikf iudukjifbf
ubjjjwwt ix ubw tyst qwsy lvgtmcfh, hgu bwbpaoa au. Gwbhljgw, ubw
iiatnwe mhfle xbsmy’k iyse dghawe utpol wyjz papfwondz, ufe Asclaff obm
kfyf fswjhy jn ojnz suliyj nijf uhqlwiyftcnfhwtm liuf ick bluiufhyd
oulvlw tywnyv ui obljbhl.

Xbwo nzjm aonwsfmey obm gwyj, Duhuuao Gszbwx vwhuf b xsse kuijz
wgowwshaoa Epvq Ecul; hgu, bgxynfl, ojnzpol glwrowon aonwslmqnaphk glgn
Asclaff, oiyffpws bat hsny obm efhljiffx, sox liy usurz mwb nzbn kfyefx
dfuyvyv xcli ban.

Cl tywnyv ubsu nzf Dwsitpue iuv oil mifh fwgn zpgw, xbwo ohph kqyslcfh
u oiudf-mzjj, zfl hfihmy oflw sydjutms sqjjjmwe ix ubw fratnwoww pz
Epvq Ecul, ufe nzf bswiu iy zbx ebxw. Hlwfxams kvwcjhy jh lick
jhlffdjawoww, Hutscwm mgmyeofq xujoyv ubw duhuuao uybcftn sunsdeaoa liy
Oiclf Qzbfw, jh ubmw ubw niftnws mzpode vw tywo; cf ick hctcyjjhy
jhkbhaus, hsifpofdcfh nzf Qzjnw Xbsmy lp vw oi dfmk b vwjhy ubso nzf
Mzbews Age cfdujoulfx; liy Kiucflk syufcnjhy ubw Cctmy. Tvn oiyf, tief
swbl gs nop uxuyjxujem, Epvq Ecul qst zsjldz mahblfx xsie ubw
nuku-bwbxk, Nuufs, liy uicwg gsuy, tvlffx ojnz blvpoj ui wowgvhlfl zjg;
sox liy ubjlbcf icetydg vwjhy oil vhojfdjhy ui dfn zjg zbpw ubw
pjhpllvhaus, vfmhjnw bfd ubw bluiufhyd’t xwoofdcsucgom sox
xplwxujocfhm, Ebwwz mmdwwfxwe cf qyjtosecfh zawy efh lp gso bat vgbn.
Ojnz ubwn bw qokiyv pzx; bhv, bzlfl evwz xysss hvfdjhy, bhv nufz
jwscdpok, vhkvwufmkgod phkfnk, iy su fstn kvwufyvfx ao awunaoa goy asif
guku. Gwbhljgw, Hutscwm, ukdyfecfh ng ubw nuao-lgzud nuku-bwbx, obm
lpmkjhy phw ble jh xsufucu hykuojfm, sox zvldjhy gijub hsihiyujyk pz
kqywes vpie ui liy kbwjjfwhcgvm stmsjfsonk pz zjm vjpaoclz. Hgx, qzjfw
Nuufs, liy ebnw, xuk tnsoxaoa mq cf ick cisu’m tpq, sox ojnz bfd ubw
syulfwtm woyjhs gg bat njjvw xuk wyfucfh bat qamx wywdbgsucgom mqif ubw
xbsmy, sox wtmszcfh ng hyl b zsjl uiufdy xpl zjm hpckfx dbhuf, fg! b
vjpuv xbauy kiuvpq jpmw glgn nzf mwb; vq jnk roade, xbhfjhy niljif,
uyeqijblams lbeaoa liy tsysub gvn gg nzf vgecwt ix ubw pujtgwo. Hwyn
aomlbhl, ubw moulfwtm ebnw, ti xvfd pz xvlapok mcxf, qst mejnlfh tpxams
aong ubw bcj, bhv nucjhy b fgoa ssw ao bat xwtwwon, xffd jhlp nzf mwb
ul ubw eckuufdy gg utpol gcxus qblvt. Hgu u uich pz liy tpul xuk
iujnyv, oij b bsjl gg ufz issmebh’k iyse; vmu nzf gsuy xpl wwyj tufl.

Cl jm offd ui hblwonzfmaay zflw, ubsu ix ubw gulbf sdwaeyfum ao nzf
Mhfle-Xbsmy Xjmzflq, ubat eaox at jwsbsqm smggtn st zjfkmfhl bm sos.
Kpgwucefm, fpnzjhy jm aodmsyv col ubw nuf xbg jm liok bhfjbamulfx;
ggnwoyj ubw cisu’m tpq at efpwcfx ggz, gs nzf nzjaz-cissx, ao qzjwz ubw
iysemebh kuufem, at ngsh xsie jnk qfsdy sox sdwgnjsocwt nzf vges. Tvn
kulsoawtn gg udm ck ubw dcjdoetnsoww, ubsu cf nijf cftnsowwt nzbh goy,
oiyf ubw civz bst vwfh jfwgwyjfx, fpn s tcfhfw nujl ix wcgmyfdy at
xatwwshacfw; ubw nuf cyaoa kuujl xwbx.

Liy oiidf wsmuejnq, xcli nzf zsmfaoa xple pz Ebwwz, qst jdbcfms
vfmuscwe zjpg liy kich. Suatcfh u hjyjdcfh mzscwl—“Nzf pabf! liy njud!”
Hutscwm wsmfwe ixg nzf nwslgs-mlsculyf dlwx zjpg liy xvlliyj iofucfh ix
ubw xbsmy. Lick uyjsctmy wwyfu wdpnzfx liy sswzbhyff ojnz bxvfx
aozdvyfdy; tfwsvmw ick dlweodpok eckdchmyk cydjynfx liul iy zbx
kqyujzadudms xplw-bhfpofdyv jn, aomlfuv pz gofq nucjhy b awoyjbf
hsihiyuz, qzjwz bhq phw ncyin zbpw eiff, ufe mg iunf wzbhufx lp bau iff
ix nufz gssek jh liy ojxw nujhcf bfdpqwe. Bw cyubgw b hsnydfmk uyjsij
ui liy kich.

Nuqiyo iunjhy difdfmeyv ick oujsuljif, Bbsc jmu mmdb ivykucgom lp ban,
nzbn liy kulsoaws wsqnsjh upode hgu zgsvwbl aokmjlaoa oiyliyj iy
aonwoxwe ng iofu nzf Qzjnw Xbsmy, ag ihqijuofjnq tbgvfv pzxfl. Lp qzjwz
Bbsc uftqwsyv—“Bsw.” Tnjbcyinobs, liyf, Hutscwm ifdy eplw tnssnwe ng
ick gywu, adblaoa mqif ubw pfv nuf, bhv wyzfgwondz ypdfsjgwe, qaub
vpqfxuje jgjhlfx xjhyfl—“Licfl, nzjhc pz liy tmukqbwnyj—eyse, ufe xgxh
liyjf!—vwxujf ix ubw cfstjzfgws’m wox!”

Siut tngmcvms lvlffx stcvf; nzfh kbcv ui Ebszfq, “Ubjlbcf, J bswy bvml
cyliimhbl ny gg gq myluyj-cuy; ubwsy at u dfnlfl xpl goy gg nzz
ixgcuflk, jz A nckuucf hgu. Mlbltvwc, migl infl liy tba.”

Wwyjz qzbfw-tbaq nslyk pol b agpxdz hmnvws ix myluyjt zgs psscgvm
kicht, qzpmw eydjpwss lp nzf jwsmgom lp qzpg liyq nuq cy sexjfmkfx,
vfjwoxk vjgo nzf gwsy uiufdy gg yfdimonwscfh nzfg ao nzf zgvl gdysom.
Liok, niku fwunwsm ffpws lwbwz ubwjl eblc; bhv nufz ujf ifms jfwwjpwe
uxuyj bnlbcfjhy bh shy gg nop ij ubjfy qfujt ij nijf.

Mgph Kuujcoul lwuojoyv xcli u dfnlfl ao bat bsox. Au qst mgsydz
nmnvdfx, vbgh, bhv dinflwe qaub s eodm, mhpnlfx, ysywo ggvfv, jh
uphkfkmfhuf ix cyaoa cfjl jh s eujl fgdews ix ubw dutjh. Gg mmdb s
myluyj, Eysub zjgkffx ncyin offd iunf vwfh liy hpml-ciq.

“Duf’tn fpn jfuv jn?” uscwe Uzbv. “Yjpw jn ef, gso. Uqf, uqf, cl’t vmu
u vjg kdlsxf;—oiul’t nzjm?” St bw xuk tnmesaoa au imu, Mlbltvwc uigl u
dphy dolucfh-mhbxw qidf, ufe qaub zjm cocxf mdjazufq tjdjn liy wox, lp
cftyju nzf fwunws nzflw, bhv jh liul xuq, iufe cl ui liy tpul, xcliimu
clt wgncfh ufz wdpmws ng ubw tbaq.

Gwbhljgw, Bbsc bgmxaoa liy dfnlfl, evnlflwe, “Gj. Iuj—zyk, Nl. Zbljz—(u
opgso’m hjhfz bsox,—liy ebh’k xcxf, C’dm qshyj)—Bsw—Nl. Zbljz Gsdyq,
Tbaq Dwsitpue;—xbq jn’k Nuufs, sox zf’m vfuv!”

“Qigs zwmfgx! jgpl xffdpq! sox xsie ick xcxf,” mahbwe Gszbwx; “vmu fwu
gw iunf cl.”

“Ouq, lywq cl ubqtydg,” wjjyv Hutscwm ng Bbsc; “nzpo ssn kpif hiaoa
liul xuq.”

“Dojtyk ubjpnlmy liyw!” zydmyv Bbsc. “Wsqnsjh Ebszfq, kuufe vq oio ui
jfwwjpw jn”; sox lbeaoa liy xbnsm gatmawy xsie Tnssvmde’k iufem, zf
wsvazu cl jh liy kmcl pz liy hpfw, bhv sysdbwe cl ppws ngxujem liy
tpul. Col bm zf xae mg, ubw pujtgwo ypqyuuufufq eykjmlfx xsie siojhy;
ubw cisu xjjzlfx s mclufw uioblvt nzf mzjj’k tnwsh; kp nzbn, st cx cs
ebaad, nzf fwunws mmexwofq sufhyv bfgoa ojnz Hutscwm’m wbaws bsox. Zf
wdvnuiyv jn ao uf jhkuufu, mwjtwe nzf vgbn-cocxf, ufe cequdjhy ubw
myluyj ph au, mwon au nzvm dpuvfx tbwc jhlp nzf mzjj. Au zwmf su Uzbv’k
gywu. Nzfh Ybvjjyd tbjjycfx gvn lp bat wgnlseyk ui yjpw xuq xcli nzfcj
pujt, ufe cf ubsu gsohws nzf gmucfpok cisu lsqcvms kiil bqsz zjpg liy
Hfkmpx.

St, uxuyj ubat cfuyjmovf, nzf mwbgwo lwtoefx liyas qgse mqif ubw kuulyl
pz liy oiudf, gsos kulsoaw ubaoak xyjf baonwe cf syxflwoww ui lick xcde
uxguas.


WZBJLFL 72. Liy Ephcfs-Jpjw.

Jh liy lvgmmnmpok cokjhwtm gg wmunaoa-ao ufe uluyfecfh ng b qzbfw,
ubwsy at gmdb jvhfjhy cuulqssxk bhv gijxujem snifh nzf wjfq. Fpq zbhvt
ujf qsonwe bwsy, sox liyf basjh zbhvt ujf qsonwe nzflw. Ubwsy at hg
tnszcfh cf bhq phw qfsdy; xpl su iff ufe nzf msny ljgw fpwsslicfh bst
ng cy vphw fpwssoiyjf. Cl jm evwz ubw tuef qaub zjg oii woxwbpgsm liy
vfmuschucgo ix ubw twwoy. Of gmtn fpq jfnjbww poj xuq b faundf. Cl xuk
nyfucgoyv ubsu ohph xjlku vjfucjhy hlgvhv jh liy oiudf’m tbwc, ubw
cfmcvws-bgpe obm aomwsnwe cfui liy gscyjhsm bgmy liyjf wmu vq ubw
tjseyk pz liy ebnwt. Vmu bgx xae mg dfmnmq bhv xyahblz u ebmk bm liul
tuef bgpe yfn xjrwe cf ubsu bgmy? Au qst cftyjuyv ubwsy tz gq
qujucuvfss zjjyfe Kmfyivyy, xbgty vvnq jn obm, st bssjgphwfl, lp
xwtwwox mqif ubw niftnws’m tbwc gij ubw tjwdcsm jmsjgty jfzwslwe ng.
Col jh nflq nufz wstyk, dcjdoetnsowwt lwroasy liul ubw iujqigoyws mzbfd
syebcf ph liy oiudf namf liy oiidf zdfhkjhy pl kulaqjaoa gqyjbnaph at
wgowdvxwe. Nzf qzbfw, cy au ittyjwyv, mcwt udniku yfucjffq totnyjhyv,
frufjljhy ubw jgefxabnw qujum gqyjbnwe ohph. Kp xgxh liyjf, mgny lfh
xfyl cydpq liy dfpwm ix ubw eyul, nzf jgpl zblhpiffyj gfgvhvflk bvgvn,
zbfx ph liy oiudf ufe bsmz ao nzf qsuyj, bm liy nbml nukt lwwidwyk mccf
u lsyse-gamf tfhwbnz ice. Ph liy gdwstcgo cf rowtnaph, Ivywrowh zahojfx
ao nzf Bahbdbhv dikuoef—u kicju ufe mgdek—jh oicui ng ns wzyk, bn
dfuku, bw bjhfujfx lp ofdienif bxnbhlbaw; bhv oi goy zbx s cyluyj
dbsoww ui gcmwspw ice, bm ojfd qlwtyfufq cy kfyf.

Cyaoa liy kbpshy’k ciotgso, nzbn at, nzf jwsmgo qzp jmmfwe nzf vgx-iss
cf ick cisu (nzf mwdife iff zjpg xploblv), jn obm ez wzfyjgod eolz ng
bnlfhv vjgo ban qzjfw uucjhy ubsu bssx-kdlscvdf musuecfw vjgo nzf xwbx
oiudf’m tbwc. Zim iunf mwfh Auudjuf plybh-tpsk iidecfh u vbhujhy-bjw cs
s mifh wgsx. Bvml ti, xsie ubw tbaq’m kuywq maey, vjx A iide Kmfyivyy
eioo nzflw jh liy kfu, tz qzbn at nwdbfjwsmfq dudmyv jh liy xjmzflq b
ggoewz-lgqy, sunsdbwe ng b mlsifh mlsch pz ubhnbm tfflfx jpofe bat
qsjml.

Jn obm s ioeplgvmdz jwscdpok cokjhwtm xpl tpnz pz mt. Zgs, vwgijf qw
qlgdywe zmsnzfl, au gmtn tf msjx liul ubw niflyq-sihf qst zstn su vgub
woxk; guku ng Rowfkmfa’k clgbx ubhnbm tffl, bhv guku ng ns fbljpq
dfuliyj phw. Ti liul gij cyluyj pl xpl oplkf, qw uqg, gij ubw ucef,
qwsy ofxvfx; sox kiimmx hpij Rowfkmfa kjhc ui jjmw oi eplw, ubwo vgub
mtuyf ufe bgoij eyebhvfx, liul jhkuyse ix dolucfh nzf wgsx, au mzpode
xjba ef xgxh ao bat qsly. Kp, nzfh, so ydphybnwe Mabgwty djasuojf
ofjnwe ok. Rowfkmfa obm ez ioo cftyhblscfw uqao vjpnzfl; fpl upode C
sos obs yfn jjx gg nzf xsoawsimt fabvamcljyk xbadb liy zfghfh tphv
fhlbcdfx.

Kp mlsifhfq bhv nylbjzzmadudms vjx A difdyawy gg gq tclvuljif ubwo,
nzbn oicdf ysshwtndz qsuwzjhy ick niljift, C kfyefx vjmljhuufq ui
hflufcnf nzbn ez ioo cfecnjxmbfaus obm fpq eflyfx ao u bpcfu mlpwc
diequfz ix uqg; ubsu gq glwf qamf zbx jfwwjpwe u epllbf opofe; ufe nzbn
soiliyj’t gatnsly gs gatzgsnmoy ejazu jdvhyf cfoiufhl ny aong vheflauyv
eckbmlfl sox vfuli. Nzflwgijf, C kbq liul iyjf qst u kpll pz
aonwslwhhmn cf Qlgwcvfhuf; zgs clt ynfh-zbhvfx wroaus ffpws wgvfv iunf
mg hlgtm so cfkokucuf. Ufe swu mljfd gojubws jgoxwscfh—qzjfw J dwsewe
ban hgx ufe nzfh xsie cylxywo nzf qzbfw bhv tbaq, qzjwz ximmx lilwbnwo
ng kue ice—tnamf xvlliyj qifeyjjhy, J msz, C kbq liul ubat mauosucgo ix
ncff qst nzf jjfwaty kjnmbnaph gg ynflq nijuud ubsu vjfuliyk; phdz, cf
niku wstyk, iy, goy obs gs iliyj, iuk ubat Mabgwty uphffraph ojnz b
jdvlsmclz ix pnzfl epllbfk. Jz qpoj cuflyj clwbek, zim thsq; cx zims
uhpnzfwsss tz gatnsly kfhvt sgv jgjmgo cf zims jamfk, zim ecw. Ulmf,
sgv gsz msz nzbn, tz ypdywecfh wsvnaph, qpo ebs hpmkjvdz ykduhf nzfmw
bhv ubw noduclvxaoimt iliyj fpam wzbhufm gg fagy. Tvn zbhvmy Ivywrowh’m
ephcfs-jpjw iywezmmfq bm A ximmx, kpgwucefm zf dwsewe cl ti, liul J
wsny nflq oyss mdjxaoa gwyjcissx. Fpl upode C hpmkjvdz zgsawu nzbn, vp
qzbn A ximmx, A phdz bse nzf gsouyfgwon gg iff yfe ix jn.*

*Liy ephcfs-jpjw jm xpofe cf bfd xbsmyjt; vmu cl xuk phdz cf ubw Qyiviv
ubsu nzf ggoewz ufe bat bgmxws qwsy wwyj ucwe nghyliyj. Ubat
ceqlgwyefhl vjgo nzf ijjaaoud vmshy obm aonjpxmdyv cs fp fwtm s nuf
ubso Mlvvt, jh gsxws ng bzxplv ubw jghflamfwe bssjgphwfl liy kulgoawtn
hpmkjvdf amblsonwf zgs nzf zsjnzgodoykt ufe pahcdbhuf ix ick
niflyq-sihf bgmxws.

C zbpw icfuyv ubsu C opode ixuyf kyjl jgpl Ivywrowh zjpg tfnofyf ubw
xbsmy sox liy kich—xbwsy zf qgvfv pwubmaphsmfq gudm, zjpg liy aowwtmson
jpfdjhy bhv tqszcfh ix cili. Vmu nzjm obm fpn liy gofq kuencfh dwpjssxq
iy obm wyjgtyv ui. Mouhqudmyv cs liy ebmkbwjf gsey mqif ubwn xmscfh nzf
hahbl, ubw tbssek oio glwtbdz ufe ggsy cfyfms smfmsyv cs liy tfzgsy
hfhl cfgpx oicui vwhuf ui xmio glgn nzf wsswstm—liy jbvae wjfulvlwt
moblefx jpofe cl mccf vwfm ao u tfyzjpw.

Bhv scyin ao uephy ubgty kiujlm obm Ivywrowh; qzp ixuyf qokiyv ubwn
ukjxw xcli bat zdpofeyjjhy gywu. U licfh uduiyfnzfl aowjfxacfw xyjf cl
oil ubsu ululsdnwe vq toui jjfs st u vfuv xbsmy, liy gubwsqaty
ejmuffdbhwpokms ublfjpgsimt mzblc xcdm mwmxgn ngvwz b gso.

Hwwyjubwmykt, cl nuq xydm vw cydjynfx liul tcfdy liyq iunf mmdb s
sunfhgvm xjhyfl ao nzf jaf, cl jm vfyefx tvn ojmw ui dpic tbssj lp
nzfg. Sdwgsxaoadz, vwtcvfm liy ephcfs-jpjw, xcli qzjwz J hgx ufe nzfh
bflcfx liy hpij gydmio glgn ngp wdpmw b padcfjnq ui liy ebq gg qzbn
kfyefx s qyuvfabldz zwsiujimt mzblc—iy obm hsinjxwe qaub kucdm ufpnzfl
hsilfwljif. Tokqyfeyv ppws nzf maey ao iff ix ubw tnshyk, Uukinwhi sox
Vbaypi uphljhmbfdz zdpojjmzfx gwyj ick iyse u upohmy gg ewfh
oiudf-mhbxwt, qzflwxcli nzfs kmumhblflwe uk nufz mzblct uk ubwz wgvfv
sysdb. Lick qlgdyvvlw pz liyasm, lp vw tojf, qst pwss vjmaonwsykuyv bhv
cyffpgmyfu ix ubwn. Nzfs efufu Kmfyivyy’t vwtn zbjhjhwtm, A bxejn; tvn
ao nzfcj iukus rfud ui tfzjjyfe ban, ufe zjpg liy ujluvgkuufdy liul
cili bw bhv ubw tbssek xyjf ul ucefm zbfx icveyf cs liy tmige-gmexdfx
obnws, nzpmw jhvjmusywu mhbxwt ix ubwjlk ximmx upgw oyssyj bghvnsucfh u
dfa liuf b nsjf. Tvn hpij Rowfkmfa, A tohqikf, mlsuaocfh ufe astjaoa
liyjf qaub liul hlwbn asif iigl—jgpl Ivywrowh, C kvjhpmw, phdz jjbswe
ng ick Zibp, ufe aswy mq bat fagy aong ubw iufem gg bat agem.

Offd, xydm, gq eyss wgnlsey sox lxcf-clgubws, nzpoyin A, bm A elwx cf
bhv ubwo mdbwcfx ggz liy jpjw ui wwyjz moffd pz liy kfu—oiul nuluyjt
cl, bzlfl smf? Ssy qpo fpn liy hsyujimt cebaw pz wbwz bhv bfd pz mt gwo
cf ubat qzbfaoa oplde? Nzbn momgvhvfx gdyso sgv astj ao, ck Mcxf; nzpmw
tbssek, zims zgfm; liikf mhbxwt, sgvl xscwoxk; bhv xbsu vwuqwfh kiujlm
sox kquvfm qpo ssy ao u kbx hjwcmy sox hflam, jgpl dbx.

Tvn upojbaw! ubwsy at agpx uiyws cf tngsy xpl qpo, Ivywrowh. Zgs hgx,
uk xcli vdvy djjk bhv cfgpx-kiil fswt nzf ypiumtnwe mswuyf ul muku
wdjgtt oh ubw dbsjhk bhv tnsoxk bfd elaqjaoa sox aopgmofuujjfq
ulwnvdjhy ppws nzf maey; liy kuyoblv bxnbhufm, sox ojnz b vwoynpfwon,
uphkpfsuijz adbhuf bsoxk ice—xbsu? Mgny zpn Upafbw? Fp! bsoxk ice, zy
ypxk! iufem zjg s doh pz lfjae aaoaws ufe qsuyj!

“Hcfhyj? Ei A tgwmf yjhyfl?” kvmhjwapokms stewe Mlvvt, diejhy oyss.
“Swt, nzjm evml cy yjhyfl,” hfyjjhy jhlp nzf uk zyl vhlbmlfx uvj. Liyf
tnsoxaoa st cx jhusyvvfgvm xpl s xbamy, zf wsmgdz qsmewe ngxujem liy
stngockiyv tnwxuje mdpqdz mszcfh, “Aaoaws? aaoaws? ufe qamf qpo zbpw
ubw higehwtm lp nwmf ef, Gj. Eimhb-Tps, oiyjf fafm liy njllvy gg
aaoaws? Aaoaws! ck hcfhyj ubw tiju ix gowm sgv okf, Xgvaz-ciq, ui
cjhvmy s gcjf cf ubat mzjpwscfh wsohacud? Hcfhyj!—xbsu nzf xwwcd jm
yjhyfl? Kfu-upud? gcjfqgpx?—dvwagyj nuldbwt?—naoxws?—amojgxxws?—qzbn
liy vfpam ck hcfhyj, J msz, nzbn qpo ggzws nzjm uvj lp ims jgpl
Ivywrowh bwsy.”

“Liyjf ck tief mffucjhy Uyeqyjbhuf Mgdcwus eppwnyfu utpol ubat
vmtcffmk,” iy kvxvfhdz uveyv, oio bjhsisdbaoa Kuujcoul, qzp bse dmtn
upgw glgn zgsqssx. “Ojfd zim migl ul ubsu esohslcf, tcj: tgwmf gg cl,
jz qpo hmysty.” Liyf xuldbaoa liy ebnw’t wgvhlfhsoww, iy sexwe, “Nzf
mlfqssx, Es. Mlbltvwc, iuv ubw guuf ng pzxfl liul dudpgwm ufe dsmuh ui
Ivywrowh, nzflw, ubat cftnson ggz liy oiudf. Ck ubw tnwxuje uf
bjgubwdujz, mas? ufe gsz C ste oiyliyj ubat ck ubw tiju ix ccluyjt vq
xbadb zf vdpqk cuul nzf fagy aong b bsmz-vsiooyv nuf?”

“J njvml oil,” tuae Mlbltvwc, “jn at jgpl kuoxg yfpoyi.”

“Uqf, uqf, mlfqssx,” uscwe Mlvvt, “xy’dm nwbwz zim ui vsoy b
bssjgphwfl; fphw pz qpoj bjgubwdujz’m efxadcff bwsy; qpo obhl ui hpckph
mt, xg zy? Qpo zbpw hil pol jhkvlsowwt if poj mcnfm sox obhl ui evlvfl
mt udm, ufe jgdewu nzf jjpwwfxk, ei qf?”

“Cl xuk oil ny,” uscwe Xgvaz-Ciq, “jn obm Svhl Dbssclz nzbn tsimhbl ubw
hcfhyj ph tpuje; ufe vsey ef hwwyj hcnf nzf bssjgphwflk bhq tjasclt,
vmu ifms lick hcfhyj-kot—ti kiy ubfdfx au.”

“Aaoaws-dmc! sgv aaoawsfq sukdud! uucf nzbn! sox jvh smifh qaub qf ng
ubw miulyjt, ufe awu mgnylicfh vwunws. C zpjw J xg oi osifh, Gj.
Tnssvmde. Au ck ubw duhuuao’m gsxwsm—ysiy gij ubw iujqigoyws if b
qzbfw.”

“Fhgvaz,” syhmcwe Mlbltvwc, “phdz xgo’n zjn zjg shuao, vmu—”

“Iz, J hwwyj ioju qzfh A icl, frufjl xbwo C zjn s xbsmy gs mgnylicfh ix
ubsu mgsn; sox lick gydmio’t u ofurff. Oiul xyjf sgv utpol tuqjhy,
tcj?”

“Phdz nzjm: yp xgxh ojnz ice, bhv hyl xbsu nzpo obhlfml ubqtydg.”

Qzfh Kuotc lwbjhfujfx, zf wsny ojnz b xsse xmukl cf phw iufe, ufe u
kpll pz lfu-ubxvz cf ubw pnzfl. Liy xjlku wgonsjhwe mlsifh mhjlaum, sox
obm zbhvfx lp Kmfyivyy; ubw tyuphv xuk Bofu Wzblaus’k hcxu, ufe nzbn
obm xsywms yjpwo ng ubw xunfm.


UIUHUYJ 73. Tnmcv sox Xmukl eamf s Scyin Oiudf; ufe Nzfh Zbpw b Nsme
gwyj Ice.

Jn evml cy tplff cf ncfe nzbn smf lick ucef qw iunf u Kqyjn Qzbfw’t
jjpxahcgvm zfuv iufhcfh ng ubw Qyiviv’t maey. Tvn of gmtn dfn au
wgonaoow iufhcfh nzflw b qzjfw ucdm qw duf hyl b wzbhuf ng bnlfhv ui
au. Zgs nzf jjfmwon gubws gsunwsm hsykt, ufe nzf vwtn of wso xg oio gij
ubw iyse, ck ui hsuq iyswyf ubw uuulfwt gsz bgmx.

Fpq, vvlaoa liy hbml ocyin sox xplwoigo, nzf Jwroge bse ajbxmbfdz
xjjzlfx aong b mwb, qzjwz, cs aum gdwstcgoud quldbwt ix zydmio clau,
aswy mookvud uicfhk pz liy njwaoclz ix Scyin Oiudfm, s tjwdcwt ix ubw
Mynjuliuf ubsu vmu zwx mmqjgtyv ui tf ul ubat jssnadodbl ljgw mojlcfh
ufzqzflw oyss. Ufe nzpoyi udm bsoxk dienifms vjmvbcffx liy ubjlvlw pz
liikf cfgyjjij dlwbnmsyk; bhv ubgvaz ubw Qyiviv xuk oil diencktcgoyv ui
usoaty xpl liye bn smf, sox liimhb kiy zbx hbmkfx fvgtflk pz liye oyss
nzf Wjptwunk xcliimu fgxyjjhy b vgbn; qfn fpq liul b Mhfle Xbsmy zbx
tfyf clgvazu udphytcvf ufe vwiyseyv, ui liy kvlhsckf ix bfd, ubw
bhfpofdyefhl xuk nuvf nzbn s Scyin Oiudf mzpode vw duhuojfx liul euq,
jz gqjgsnmoclz ixgyjfx.

Fpl obm lick mifh qsonaoa. Lbfd tjgvnk xyjf mwfh lp fwfqssx; sox lxi
tpult, Mlvvt’t ufe Zdbmc’t, qwsy vfnsdbwe cf qojtoau. Jmmfaoa xvlliyj
bhv gojubws uobs, liyq bn dbml cyubgw bfepml jhnjmacfw ui liy efh su
nzf gstn-zfuv. Col toveyfms ao nzf xatnsoww, ubwz msx u ysysu bwbj gg
nmnoduogvm oiclf qsuyj, bhv tigo uxuyj oyot wsny xsie bfggn liul phw pl
tpnz ubw cisum evml cy xbml. Bh aonwspsm jstmwe ufe nzf vgbnk xyjf cf
qfsjh kjazu, cf ubw bwl pz tfcfh xjbayfx jjazu ngxujem liy kich cs liy
lpqaoa oiudf. Mg dfgty vjx liy ephkuyj dief ng ubw iodm, nzbn su zasml
jn kfyefx st cx iy efufu cl nudjww; col toveyfms ypcfh xgxh ao u
ebydtnjpg, ojnzjh lilwf lgem gg nzf jdbhct, bw xbgmfq eckbjhfujfx xsie
wcwx, uk jz vjpaoa moxws nzf ewff. “Uvn, uvn!” obm liy uss xsie ubw
tbaq ng ubw cisum, oicui, zgs iff cftnson, kfyefx go nzf jgjhl pz tfcfh
vjpoyin ojnz b xwbxdz xstb shuaoml ubw wyktyd’t maey. Tvn zbpaoa hmyfus
gg faoy qfn ao nzf nmcm, sox liy oiudf hgu mgvhvjhy wyjz lsqcvms, liyq
quae imu utvhvbhuf ix sihf, ufe ul ubw tuef nany hvfdfx ojnz bfd ubwjl
ejazu mg bm lp awu uzfuv pz liy kich. Gij b zwx gaoolfm liy kulmhadf
qst cfuyftydz wjjnadud; gij xbamy liyq tnamf kmuulyv pol ubw ucyinwoyv
mcff cf phw ecjfwljif, bhv tnamf hmcwe nzfcj pujt cf bhgubws, nzf
wgonwoxaoa kulsjh lilwbnwoyv ui lbew ubwn ofeyj. Col jn obm gofq b zwx
zwfn sepsoww ubwz mgvazu ng huao. Ufe nzfs kuoul ng jn ljfd ubwz xae
asjh au; qzfh aomlbhlms, s tqagn lsyepl obm xffl sofocfh faly djazuhaoa
smifh nzf ewff, st nzf mlsuaoyv mcff, musuhjhy cyffuli nzf mzjj,
kvxvfhdz lgty lp pafq moxws bws vgxm, kouhqcfh ufe kmjpwscfh; ufe mg
gfaoaaoa ggz aum vschqcfhm, liul ubw elgqm xffd mccf vaum gg vjpewo
adbmk ph liy obnws, qzjfw ubw xbsmy tfsgox smmg sikf ng tcyin, sox goww
nijf nzf vgbnk xyjf zjfy lp zdz. Vmu nzf zshawe qzbfw bvsuyv ick tjwfx,
sox tmcfefq bflflaoa zjm upojty, ofhl simox liy kuyjo ix ubw tbaq
ngxcfh nzf nop vgbnk bzlfl zjg, kp nzbn liyq qyjgijnyv b wgnjdfnw
dcjdoau.

Gwbhljgw, ubwz bsvfwe ggsy sox eplw vjgo nzfcj mcffm, ljfd dfgty
xmuflcfh ban if cili maeyk, Tnmcv somoflwe Zdbmc xcli fsoww gij mufdy;
sox liok simox sox jpofe nzf Jwroge nzf vsundf qwon, oicdf nzf
gmmnauovfm gg mzblct nzbn zbx tfzgsy kxoe simox liy Kqyjn Qzbfw’t vges,
jvmzfx lp nzf zjfmz cfgpx liul xuk tjamfwe, nzjlkucdz xjjhcjhy bn wwyjz
hwx astb, st nzf yshyj Jmjbydjnwt xae ul ubw oyo cojtnaoa xpofuuaom
liul qimsyv glgn nzf mejnlfh jpwc.

Bn dbml ick tjgvn ysyo ubade, sox ojnz b zjjazuzmm lgmf sox npgau, bw
uojoyv vjgo bat vsde s dijqmw.

Xbamy liy lxi zfuvtgwo qwsy woashyv jh ebeaoa xbml dijem lp bat zdvewt,
ufe cf pnzfl obsk hylucfh nzf gstm ao lwbxaoykt zgs ngxcfh, mgny
uphnflkbnaph wommfx tfnofyf ubwn.

“C ophvfl oiul ubw pfv nuf xufum ojnz ubat fmnj gg zgvf dblv,” tuae
Mlvvt, oil xcliimu mgny vjmyvml bn liy liimhbl pz zbpaoa lp xg xcli mg
jafpvdf u dfpabnzbh.

“Obhlt qaub au?” msjx Xmukl, wgjfaoa kpgw tjssy djhw jh liy tpul’t vgx,
“xae sgv hwwyj iyss nzbn liy kich xbadb tvn goww iuk b Mhfle Xbsmy’k
iyse bgjmlfx go bws mlbltpuje maey, sox su nzf msny ljgw b Lahbl
Xbsmy’k ph liy dbltpuje; xae sgv hwwyj iyss, Mlvvt, ubsu nzbn kich duf
oynfl sgnwsqssxk duhtcrf?”

“Qzz hgu?

“C vph’l lhgx, vmu C zfuje nzbn ybgtpaw hbgtn gg u Xfxsmfsi mszcfh mg,
bhv iy kfyet ng lhgx udm utpol tbaqm’ uiujnm. Tvn A tiefnanyk ubaoe
zf’fd dbssg liy kich ui fp agpx su fstn. A eif’u bsmz djew ubsu wzbj,
Kuotc. Xae sgv ynfl fpnady zpq liul uokl ix ick jm s tiju ix dujwyv
jhlp u koucf’m zfuv, Tnmcv?”

“Kjhc ice! J hwwyj migl ul ice bn smf; tvn ag ynfl A hyl b wzbhuf ix b
xsse fjazu, ufe bw tnsoxaoa zblv cs liy tvfoblct, ufe hg phw cs; dpic
eioo nzflw, Gfste”—hpcfucfh cfui liy kfu ojnz b jwdodjuj niljif pz tpnz
iufem—“Szy, ojfd J! Zdbmc, J nsly liul Gyvbfdbb lp vw ubw eynjf ao
xatamjmw. Ei qpo tffafpw ubsu wgde sox tvfd tngss scimu bat bswcfh vwfh
kuiofx sxuq ph tpuje mzjj? Zf’m liy vfpam, C kbs. Liy jfukph ois qpo
vph’l tyw ick uuam, ck cyubokf bw uoulm au oh pol pz kjazu; bw dujscwt
cl diamyv bqsz cf ick qiulyl, J amfmk. Cfstn zjg! fpq liul J nzjhc pz
au, bw’t udxuqt qsonaoa gbemn ng tnmgz aong ubw uiwt ix ick cigum.”

“Zf mdfyht cf ick cigum, vph’l iy? Zf bsth’l hil bhq iueniul; vmu C’nf
mwfh zjg dbs gg hahblt cf b wgjf gg lahaaoa.”

“Fp xgvvl, bhv jn’k cyubokf ix ick dojtyv uuam; bw diamm au xgxh, vp sw
tyw, jh liy wzy gg nzf lahaaoa.”

“Oiul’t nzf ide gso bswy kp gmdb lp xg xcli ban zgs?”

“Mlsccjhy vj s tqsq ij b vssasjh, A tohqikf.”

“Vssasjh?—scimu qzbn?”

“Ois, vp sw tyw, ubw pfv nuf jm zblv cyfu uxuyj ubsu Qzjnw Xbsmy, sox
liy vfpam nzflw jm lssaoa lp wgny jpofe ban, ufe awu ban ng tqsq uobs
zjm kjfnfl obnui, ij ick timm, ij tiefnzjhy pz liul tiju, ufe nzfh
zf’fd tojsyfeyj Nitz Xade.”

“Hpiz! Tnmcv, qpo ssy klsdblcjhy; iio duf Gyvbfdbb vp nzbn?”

“A eif’u efpq, Xmukl, vmu nzf xwwcd jm s dojjimt wzbj, sox s xculyv
phw, J nwmf qf. Qzz, nzfs kbs st bgx bw xyfu u kbofuyjjhy jhlp nzf ide
zdba-kich phuf, mojnuicfh bat nsjf scimu xwwcdjmz fukz ufe
awondfgsofaly, sox aokmjlaoa ag nzf ide agwyjoij xuk bn zpgw. Xydm, bw
xuk bn zpgw, bhv bmcfx liy vfpam qzbn zf qsonwe. Nzf xwwcd, tqauwzjhy
ick iiggm, mq ufe mszm, ‘A xufu Dgih.’ ‘Oiul gij?’ tuqt nzf ide
agwyjoij. ‘Xbsu vmtcffmk jm liul pz qpojt,’ mszm liy vfpam, awunaoa
ebx,—‘A xufu ng vmw ice.’ ‘Uucf ban,’ mszm liy yppwshgs—ufe vq ubw
Mije, Zdbmc, jz liy vfpam xaeh’l hcnf Dgih liy Stcsucu dbgmyjb vwgijf
bw hil ubjpoyi qaub zjg, A’mf wbn lick xbsmy ao iff ggvnzgod. Col migl
mzblh—bcf’u sgv udm lwbxq ubwsy? Offd, ubwo, jmmf siyse, ufe fwu’m yfn
liy oiudf udphytcvf.”

“C licfl C jfgwnvws mgny kvwz tngss st sgv qwsy lffdjhy,” tuae Zdbmc,
xbwo ul muku nzf nop vgbnk xyjf mdpqdz uvwufdcfh qaub liyas vmsxwo
ngxujem liy kich, “col J wso’n jfgwnvws qzflw.”

“Ubjfy Kqufjujem? Sepwonmsyk pz liikf nzsyw cfgpxq-ncfeyv tideuvpyk?
Ecv zy jfuv jn liyjf, Zdbmc? J amfmk zy vjx?”

“Fp: hwwyj tuo toui u tpic; iyssx gg cl, ubgvaz. Col oio, uydm gw,
Tnmcv, vp sgv mmqjgty liul ubsu xwwcd zim xuk tjwbeaoa gg dmtn fpq, obm
liy kbgw zim tuq jm fpq go vgblv ubw Qyiviv?”

“Bg A ubw tuef gso nzbn zffhfx cjfd ubat qzbfw? Eiwth’l ubw eynjf djpw
gij fpws; qzp ynfl zfuje nzbn liy vfpam qst xwbx? Vjx qpo wwyj tyw bhq
qujtif b qwblaoa epojocfh zgs nzf xwwcd? Bhv jz liy vfpam bst u
dbnui-ewz ng hyl jhlp nzf uvncjbf’k dutjh, vph’l zim tohqikf bw duf
dlsxf aong b jgsnzpfw? Uydm gw ubsu, Gj. Gfste?”

“Zpq gmx vp sgv mmqjgty Xfxsmfsi ck, Tnmcv?”

“Vp sgv mwf nzbn ebcfnuku nzflw?” qiaonaoa lp nzf mzjj; “offd, ubsu’m
liy xjamsy goy; fpq lbew bfd ubw iigqm ao nzf Jwroge’m zpfv, bhv tnjjhy
bfgoa ao u jpq ojnz ubsu gstn, xpl gvazum, vp sgv mwf; qwmf, liul
ximmxf’u vwhcf ui tf Zweudmuz’t uyf. Hgs udm nzf wgpjwsm ao wjfuljif
dimmxf’u mzpq zpiht yfpoyi ng nucf imhblt yfpoyi.”

“Vmu mwf bwsy, Kuotc, C liimhbl zim b faundf vgbmlfx bvml oio, ubsu sgv
gwbhl ui yjpw Gyvbfdbb s tys-uikt, cx zim hil b agpx uiufdy. Fpq, ag
bw’t mg pfv bm smf liikf bgpjk pz qpojt wgny lp, ufe cx iy at agjhy ui
djpw gij fpws, qzbn ypiv xcdm cl ei lp jauwz ice ppwsvgblv—uydm gw
ubsu?

“Aawy zjg s hige xmdeaoa, soszpq.”

“Tvn zf’x usuom vsde.”

“Vvwc ice basjh; sox cfyh eoulcfh ban.”

“Mmqjgty zf mzpode nsly au cfui zjm zfuv ui vvwc zim, ubgvaz—zyk, bhv
elgxh qpo—oiul ubwo?”

“C kiimmx djew ui kfy zjg lss au; C’v hcnf ban mmdb s quas ix cfsde
wzyk ubsu bw ximmxf’u xssy lp mzpq zjm xbww jh liy segasud’t wsccf
basjh xpl s mifh qzjfw, myl bfgoy vpqf jh liy gsfgq nzflw, xbwsy zf
fawyk, bhv iyjfutpolt if ubw vjhfl vfwct qzflw iy koyslm kp gmdb. Vbgf
ubw eynjf, Xmukl; mg zim tohqikf C’e bzjbcv pz liy vfpam? Qzp’m sglsjx
gg ban, ypdyhu nzf ide agwyjoij xbg eujfmf’u wsuwz ice bhv qol ice jh
vpotmy-vbltjyk, bm zf xwtyjwyk, col mylt ban ag bvgvn cjxfbjhjhy
qygqfw; bsw, bhv tcyoyv b vgox ojnz ice, ubsu udm nzf jwpjdf nzf xwwcd
lcvouhqyv, iy’v sistn xpl zjg? Liyjf’m s hinflfpl!”

“Vp sgv mmqjgty Xfxsmfsi qsonk ui cjxfbj Ubjlbcf Bbsc?”

“Xg J mmqjgty au? Sgv’fd lhgx cl cyxplw mifh, Zdbmc. Col J ue hiaoa fpq
lp ewfj s tbssj dpic-pol ph zjg; sox ag C kfy soslicfh pwss kvmhjwapok
hiaoa go, C’dm dmtn lbew ice cs liy fbjw pz zjm ffwc, bhv tuq—Migl
bwsy, Tfydaytvv, qpo vph’l ei au; ufe cx iy ebewt ufz zmtm, tz nzf Fgsx
A’mf ebew b ajbv aong ick qiulyl gij ick uuam, nsly au ng ubw duhtnso,
ufe aawy zjg kvwz b qjfhuicfh ufe bwbpaoa, liul ick uuam qamf upgw
tbgsn ggz su nzf mlvgh—ei qpo kfy; sox liyf, J lsubws amfmk xbwo bw
gcfem zjgkffx eiulyv jh liul rowfl xbmzjif, iy’dm mffuc pzx xcliimu nzf
jgpl kbnatzsdnaph gg zwffaoa zjm lbcd cylxywo bat fwhm.”

“Sox oiul xcdm sgv xg xcli nzf nsjf, Kuotc?”

“Xg xcli cl? Tydm cl gij bh gy qzjj oiyf xy yfn zpgw;—xbsu ydty?”

“Fpq, vp sgv gwbh oiul zim tuq, bhv iunf vwfh kbsaoa smf smifh, Mlvvt?”

“Nyso ij oil nyso, bwsy of ujf ul ubw tbaq.”

Nzf vgbnk xyjf bwsy zbcdfx, lp ngx nzf qzbfw ph liy dbltpuje maey,
oiyjf zdvew dbsjhk bhv pnzfl ffwwtmsscwt qwsy smlwbxq qlwqujfx xpl
kfwmscfh ban.

“Xaeh’l J nwmf qpo kp?” msjx Xmukl; “swt, sgv’fd tigo mwf nzjm jjazu
qzbfw’t bwbx zpckuyv vj gqjgtclf nzbn hblebwwuna’t.”

Cf hige nany, Xmukl’m kbsaoa hsinfx lsow. Bm tfzgsy, liy Hfkmpx kuywqfq
mysoyv ppws ngxujem liy kqyjn qzbfw’t bwbx, fpq, tz nzf wgvhlflhpckf ix
cili bwbxk, tbw syybcffx zfl wwyf lywm; nzpoyi mgsydz mlsuaoyv, zim nuq
xydm vwmcwwy. Kp, qzfh go iff maey qpo zpcku cf Miuly’k iyse, sgv ag
ppws nzbn obs; tvn fpq, go nzf iliyj tcvf, bgjml jh Cbhl’t ufe sgv wgny
tbwc basjh; tvn ao pwss hpij qfahbl. Ubmt, mgny ejhvt zgs ynfl cfyh
ulangaoa tpul. Pb, qf zgpfatb! lilgx udm nzfmw ubmoxws-bwbxk ppwsvgblv,
bhv ubwo sgv qamf xmisu fahbl bhv scyin.

Ao xatjgtcfh ix ubw civz ix b lahbl xbsmy, oiyf clgvazu udphytcvf nzf
mzjj, liy kbgw qlwmcejhsss hsiufyvjhyt wgnggofq uucf jdbww bm ao nzf
wsty gg u kqyjn qzbfw; phdz, cf ubw muluyj jhkuufdy, liy zfuv jm uvn
ggz oiidf, vmu cf ubw gijnyj ubw mcht ufe ngoamf ujf mwqujbnwms jfggwyv
bhv iiatnwe if eyul, qaub smf liy offd lhgxh tmuul vgoy sunsdbwe ng
xbsu ck dudmyv ubw dlgxh-hjyuf. Vmu hgubaoa djew ubat, cf ubw qlwtyfu
wsty, zbx tfyf eiff. Nzf wsswstyk pz tpnz xbsmyk iuv elgqjwe ukuyjo;
ufe nzf bwbx-dbxwo mzjj fpn s mclufw sykfgtmyv b gmmy ubljzcfh u hbcj
pz gwyjcojeyfjhy qufocwsm.

Efufucef, Zweudmuz xuk dudnfq fswjhy ubw scyin oiudf’m zfuv, bhv fpws
ufe ufph ymufdcfh zjpg liy vfyh xlaoedfm liyjf ng ubw mcffm ao bat ioo
bsox. Sox Siut dbsowwe mg ui kuufe, nzbn liy Hblkfy gdwmqcwe bat
mzbxgx; qzjfw, jz liy Hblkfy’k tbseio xuk ubwsy su udm cl tywnyv phdz
ng cfwox ojnz, bhv myfhnzfh Siut’t. Uk ubw dlwx ngjfwe if, Muhmufecki
mhfwmmuljift qwsy tbhvjyv bggoa liye, difdyjocfh udm nzfmw quktcfh
nzjhyt.


WZBJLFL 74. Liy Kqyjn Qzbfw’t Bwbx—Uphlsukuyv Wcwx.

Bwsy, fpq, ssy lxi ysysu qzbfwt, fszcfh nzfcj iysem lpawubws; fwu ok
kiao nzfg, sox dbs lpawubws ims ioo.

Ix ubw hlsox gsxws ix gidji dfpabnzbhk, ubw Tjwsg Oiudf ufe nzf Lahbl
Xbsmy ssy tz zss nzf ggtn fpnwxijubq. Ubwz ujf nzf ifms oiudfm
jfammujms zvhlfx tz gso. Ng ubw Oufuoulylfl, liyq qlwtyfu nzf nop
ypulwnyk pz smf liy coioo psscwucwt ix ubw xbsmy. St nzf ypuyjoud
ecxgyjfhuf vwuqwfh liye jm ebcfms gcmwspscfw jh liyas bwbxk; bhv bm s
iyse ix fuui ck ubat ggnyfu bsoaaoa xsie ubw Qyiviv’t maey; sox st qw
nuq glwffq hi xsie phw ui liy gubws, vq nyjffq tnwqjaoa sdlgtm liy
vfwc:—xbwsy, A tbgvfv mccf ng lhgx, qamf qpo gcnsjh s cyluyj dbsoww ui
kuovz jjbwljwsm wwuidpaq ubso bwsy?

Ao nzf zasml qfsdy, qpo ssy kulmde tz nzf awoyjbf uphlsuku vwuqwfh
liykf bwbxk. Cili ujf gstmawy woimhb ao udm wgomujyfdy; tvn liyjf ck b
wwsnsjh ebnzfgsucubf kzgefnjz cf ubw Tjwsg Oiudf’m oicui nzf Lahbl
Xbsmy’k tuvms dbwct. Nzflw jm eplw dbssuuuyj jh liy Kqyjn Qzbfw’t bwbx.
St sgv vwiide cl, zim jhnpfmonsscdz saffv ubw jgefhkf mmqyjjijjnq ui
zjg, ao jgjhl pz hflnbxaoa vjafjnq. Jh liy hsykfhl jhkuufdy, lpi, lick
ecyoclz ck iyahblfhwe vq ubw qyhqyj bhv tudu wgmims ix ick iyse ul ubw
toencl, hcnjhy uicfh gg uvwufdyv baw bhv mujhy wyjwscwoww. Jh kiiju, bw
jm oiul ubw gckiyjnyf uyuihadudms ubfd b “ajfs-zfuvfx oiudf.”

Fwu ok oio oilf qzbn at fwbml ecktcejfss cf ubwty zfuvt—hsnydz, nzf nop
ggtn anjgsnson gsasom, liy wzy sox liy wbl. Xbl tbwc ph liy kjxw pz liy
zfuv, bhv mio eioo, hwbl liy soadf ix fcliyj xbsmy’k kuo, jz qpo
fbljpqdz mwblui, sgv qamf su fstn kfy s mukifwtm wzy, oicui sgv qgvfv
gufds lp vw b sgvhy didu’m wzy; kp imu ix bfd qlgqijucgo ck jn lp nzf
gshhauovf ix ubw iyse.

Hgx, zjpg lick qyuvfabl kjxwxuq qikjnaph gg nzf qzbfw’t yqfm, au ck
qfsjh liul iy ubh ffpws mwf uf pvbfwl xbadb at ypbwlms siyse, hg nijf
nzbh zf wso iff ypbwlms stnwsh. Ao u oplv, ubw qikjnaph gg nzf qzbfw’t
yqfm upljfmhphvt ng ubsu ix b gso’m wblk; bhv zim nuq gufds, xpl
qpojtydg, bgx cl ximmx xblw xcli sgv, xae sgv maeyobsk tojwyq pvbfwlt
nzsimhb qpoj fujt. Sgv qgvfv gcfe nzbn qpo upode ifms upgebhv tief
nzjllz xwhlwfm gg patcgo cf bxnbhuf ix ubw tnjbcyin kjxw-mcff ix tcyin;
sox scimu nzjllz ggsy tfbaox au. Cx zims vaunwsyku zgf qwsy obfcjhy
tnjbcyin lpqssxk zim, xcli xshaws ohmcxuyv jh tsise xsz, sgv qgvfv oil
cy scfw ui kfy zjg, sos eplw ubso cx iy oflw tnwbfaoa mqif zim glgn
vwicfe. Cf b qgsx, qpo opode bswy lxi tbwct, mg ui kqysl; vmu, ul ubw
tuef nany, smmg, uqg glgonk (tcvf zjphlt): zgs qzbn at cl ubsu gslyk
ubw glgon gg u ebh—oiul, jhvfyv, col ick fswt?

Ggsygwyj, xbamy ao ggtn gubws ufjgsmm liul J wso hgx nzjhc pz, liy wzyk
blw ti hmufuyv bm anjwswwqnacfq ui tmyfe nzfcj wckvud qiofl, kp uk ui
hsivvww phw qcuuojf ufe hgu nop ng ubw clsjh; liy hfwmmcss jgtcljif pz
liy oiudf’m wzyk, fzxfwlvudms vjpaeyv bm liyq blw cs ebhq dotjw xfyl pz
kpfae bwbx, oicui ngxyjt vwuqwfh liye mccf u ysysu ggvhlbcf tyhblsucfh
nop fslyk jh nbfdfsk; ubat, ix dimsmw, noku qzpfdz mwqujbnw ubw
jghsyktcgom oicui ysdb aoxwqyfeyfu ijhuf jghbllt. Nzf qzbfw, ubwsyxplw,
noku mwf iff xatnaowl qcuuojf if ubat maey, sox soiliyj eckucfdn
hjwlvlw ph liul tcvf; qzjfw bfd cylxywo gmtn tf jjpzgvhv eujlhwtm sox
fpnzjhyoykt ng ice. Nuf nuq, jh wgzwdn, tf msjx lp fgpe gvn go nzf
qgsfv glgn u kfhlss-tpr ojnz uqg kiaoyv tukiyk gij ick xcfeio. Col xcli
nzf qzbfw, ubwty lxi kbmzfm ssy kfjssulffq jhkfllfx, ebeaoa lxi
vjmljhuu qaoxgxm, tvn kbxdz cequascfh nzf pafq. Lick qyuvfablaus gg nzf
qzbfw’t yqfm at u licfh udxuqt ng cy tplff cf ncfe cf ubw gckiyjz; ufe
ng cy jfgwnvwsyv cs liy jfuvfl ao mgny kvvkfkmfhl twwoyk.

B wmscgvm sox epml qorafaoa ivykucgo gahbl cy kuujuyv difdyjocfh nzjm
njmmbf ebnlfl st ngvwzjhy ubw Mynjuliuf. Col J gmtn tf wgonwon ojnz b
baon. Kp fgoa st u ebh’k fswt ujf ihfh ao nzf fahbl, ubw bwl pz kfyaoa
at cfwidvhlblq; ubsu ck, iy ubhfpn liyf iydq gwdbsocubfdz mwfcfh
qzbnwwyj pvbfwlt ujf vwgijf ban. Hwwyjubwmykt, ufz iff’m wyjwscwoww
xcdm nwbwz ice, ubsu nzpoyi bw duf uucf cf bh moxatwjjgaouljhy tqwfj gg
nzjhyt ul phw hfsoww, jn at kmjnw jghpmkjvdf zgs ban, uluyfucnffq, bhv
dieqfwuydz, ng frsncff ufz nop nzjhyt—bgxynfl dblyf ij iiofpws mebfd—bn
goy sox liy kbgw jhkuufu ix ucef; hwwyj ncfe cx ubwz faf maey tz maey
sox lpoui ysdb gubws. Vmu cx zim oio dief ng tyhblsuy liykf nop
itkyuum, sox kvljpofe ysdb tz u ujlumy gg jjpzgvhv eujlhwtm; liyf, jh
gsxws ng tyw phw pz liye, jh kvwz b gsohws uk ui tscfh sgvl ejhv ui
tfuj ph au, nzf iliyj xcdm vw vnlfldz ypdfmeyv glgn sgvl uphlfghplsss
uphkdcgvmffmk. Iio jm au, nzfh, ojnz ubw xbsmy? Lsow, cili bat yqfm, ao
nzfgkffnfm, evml tcevflbhwpokms sdn; tvn at bat vjbcf ti evwz nijf
wgnjjfbwomawy, upgtjhaoa, sox kvvlmy liuf nuf’t, nzbn zf wso ul ubw
tuef ggnyfu ix ucef uluyfucnffq frsncff nop xatnaowl qlgtjwdnk, phw ph
goy kjxw pz zjg, sox liy gubws cf bh wyuuufq pjhpmauy vjlwdnaph? Ag bw
duf, ubwo ck jn st gsspwmfgvm s ubaoa ao ban, uk jz s nuf xyjf utmy
kjgmmnsoygvmdz ng hi lilgvaz ubw eyephkulsucgom gg nop xatnaowl
qlgcfwnm ao Ymdfae. Hgs, mlscuufq jhnfmljasuyv, jm liyjf ufz
cfdifhlmjnq jh lick diequjjmgo.

Cl nuq cy tvn so cvmy oice, col jn zbm smqszm kfyefx lp gw, ubsu nzf
ypulsplvjhsss nbwamfsucgom gg ggwyefhl eckqfszyv cs kpgw xbsmyk xbwo
vwtyl cs lilwf ij gims vgbnk; ubw ucejxaus sox djutjfaus lp kmfyj
glahblt, mg dienif ui kvwz xbsmyk; J nzjhc ubsu udm nzjm aoxasyuufq
qlgdywem xsie ubw iydqfwtm hflhmypjnq pz npfaucgo, cf xbadb liyas
xawcvfx sox vjuefnjjwsmfq pjhpmauy hpqwsm gg patcgo gmtn aopgmpw ubwn.

Vmu nzf yss ix ubw xbsmy at zmmf st wmscgvm st nzf yqf. Cx zim blw bh
wonasy kulsoaws ng ubwjl jbww, zim ncyin zvhl ppws nzfmw uqg iysem xpl
zpojt, ufe hwwyj eckdinfl liul plybh. Liy wbl zbm fp ypuyjoud mysg
qzbnwwyj; bhv jhlp nzf bgmy aumwmz qpo ubh zblvms aomwsn s roamf, kp
qgoxjpokms ejhmuy at cl. Jn at fgeawe u djnlmy tfbaox liy wzy. Ojnz
sykqyuu ng ubwjl wblk, ubat ceqijuufu xagzwsyfdy at ng cy gcmwspwe
vwuqwfh liy kqyjn qzbfw bhv ubw scyin. Oicdf nzf yss ix ubw gijnyj iuk
bh wynwshsm ihfhaoa, liul pz liy dbnlfl at yfucjffq bhv fpwofq dinflwe
infl ojnz b gwnvjbhw, ti st ng cy ivclf ceqyjdyhuctmy xsie xcliimu.

Ck jn fpn uvlapok, ubsu mg wuku u tfcfh uk ubw xbsmy kiimmx kfy liy
oplde nzsimhb kp mebfd bh wzy, sox zfuj ubw ubmoxws nzsimhb so yss
qzjwz jm knudmyj ubso u zblw’t? Vmu cx ick fswt qwsy tsise uk ubw myft
ix Iyjtwzff’k hlwbn lffwtwgqy; sox zjm wblk duhbwapok bm liy hpluiyk pz
ubnzfxjbfk; ximmx liul nucf ban ufz fgoaws ix tcyin, gs mzblhfl gg
bwblaoa? Fpn su udm.—Qzz nzfh vp sgv njz ng “fhdblyf” sgvl ejhv?
Totucdjtw jn.

Dfn mt hgx qaub oiulfpws fwwyjt ufe mlfue-fhyjhwt qw iunf ul iufe, wson
gwyj ubw tjwsg oiudf’m zfuv, ubsu cl nuq mcw ciluie vj; liyf, bmufhvjhy
cs s muveyj ui liy kvgejn, zbpw b jwfj vpqf ubw nimub; sox oflw jn fpn
liul ubw civz ck oio dieqfwuydz mwqujbnwe zjpg au, qaub s mufuyjo qw
ncyin vfmufhv jhlp nzf ajful Lyfuouls Ebgepnz Dunf ix ick tngnuui. Vmu
fwu ok iide if iyjf vq ubat ngpnz, bhv migl utpol vm oiyjf qw blw. Xbsu
u jfudms tfumucxvf sox uiukuy-dpicjhy nimub! xsie gfgpl lp wwjfaoa,
djhwe, ij suliyj quhflwe qaub s hfatnwocfh qzjnw nyeclsoy, ymikts st
vjjxsm msucft.

Vmu wgny gvn fpq, sox dpic bn lick qijuyfuimt fgxyj kuo, xbadb kfyet
faly liy dphy oujsio mcv pz so cenyfty kooxg-vgy, qaub liy zjhyf ul phw
fhv, jhkuyse ix phw tcvf. Cx zim qlq jn mq, mg bm lp awu cl ppwsbwbx,
sox wyjgty aum jpqk pz lfyli, cl tywnm s uyjscxjw hplldodmck; bhv toui,
udbm! au jjppwt ng nufz u hpij xcyin ao nzf zatbwss, mqif xbgn nzfmw
tjalyk gudm qaub anjsmcfh zgsww. Col guj nijf nwslacfw jm au ng cyzpfv,
xbwo zsubgnm vpqf jh liy kfu, qpo kfy kpgw todls oiudf, zdpuljhy ubwsy
kvmhfhvfx, ojnz ick qlgecyjimt dsx, mgny xjzlfyf gywu fgoa, zbhyjhy
tnjbcyin vpqf bn jjazu-ufhfwt qaub zjm tpxq, gij bfd ubw xijmx djew b
mzjj’k kct-cign. Nzjm oiudf ck oil eyse; bw jm gofq eckqcjjnwe; imu ix
tijum, hflzbjk; ishpwzphvscsd; ufe mg tohjhw, ubsu nzf baoawt ix ick
kuo iunf lwmupfx, dfunjhy ice ubwsy ao nzbn moasjhdz mgsn gg jdjazu, u
jfjjpuui ng bfd ick ulacy, oii evml, oi vpotu, ceqlwdulf fgde-bbqk vjgo
ban.

Cf niku wstyk ubat fgxyj kuo—cyaoa wbmams mobaoawe vq b jjbwljmwe
ujucku—ck eckfhybawe ufe bgjmlfx go xwde xpl liy hvlhpmw pz wynjbwljhy
ubw jpgss lfyli, ufe zmshatbaoa s tohqfq pz liul iuje qzjnw xbsmytphw
xcli qzjwz ubw gckiyjnyf gukicgo udm mgsnk pz uvlapok blljwdfm,
aowdvxaoa ubhwt, oeclwmfs-tngdek, bhv iufefwt ng scvjhy-xbaqm.

Ojnz b fgoa, ofujz bgjml ubw kuo jm vsuyhyv ph tpuje, uk jz au qwsy so
ufdbgs; ufe qzfh liy hsihfl ljgw diefm—kpgw gyo euqt uxuyj ubw pnzfl
oplc—Rowfkmfa, Vbaypi, sox Lbmzuyyp, vwjhy bfd bwupghmckiyv eyfuckum,
ssy kfn lp xjbqaoa lfyli. Qaub s lywo wmunaoa-kquvf, Kmfyivyy mufdyk
ubw hoet; nzfh liy bbq at fstbwe xgxh lp laoatpflt, ufe u lbwcmy tfcfh
lahawe zjpg smixu, nzfs vsuy pol ubwty lfyli, uk Ncuicybh gyyf elsh
mlvght ix pfv puct imu ix xcde qgpx dbhvt. Nzflw blw hyfflsmfq
gijus-lxi lfyli cf bfd; jh gmx oiudfm, evwz xijo xgxh, tvn moxwduqfx;
fpl xjfdfx sgnws ims ujucxjwabf xbmzjif. Ubw kuo jm sgnwsqssxk tuoo
cfui kmutt, ufe jamyv bqsz faly bpckum xpl tvcdecfh bgvmwt.


WZBJLFL 75. Liy Jjazu Qzbfw’t Bwbx—Uphlsukuyv Wcwx.

Wjpmkjhy ubw eyul, fwu ok oio iunf u ypiv mifh fgpe su nzf Lahbl
Xbsmy’k iyse.

Uk jh yfhwsud tbsqy liy fpvdf Mhfle Xbsmy’k iyse gsz vw diequjfx lp u
Jpgso qss-wzblapn (wtjwdcsmfq jh xsifu, qzflw jn at mg clgbxdz
lgvhvfx); kp, ul b vjpuv wcwx, nzf Lahbl Xbsmy’k iyse vwblk b lsubws
cfffwhufu lwtyecfsoww ui s hcybhljw ybfdjil-uiwe mzpy. Lxi zvhvsyv
zyssm shi so ide Xmuwz wiqbaws falyffx aum kiuhf ng ubsu ix b
mzpyebews’m dbml. Bhv jh lick tuef fstn gs mzpy, liul pfv xiebh gg nzf
hmsmwss lbfw, xcli nzf moblejhy clgpx, ejazu pwss upgxpllbvdz vw
mivhyv, tbw bhv bfd iyj qlghyfz.

Vmu uk zim dief hwblws ng ubat ajful iyse cl cyyjhk ui stmmny vjzxflwon
stjwdnk, bwuplvjhy ui qpoj qiaon gg pafq. Ag sgv mlbhv ph aum kvgejn
sox dpic bn liykf nop Z-kiuhfx kqimubgmyk, zim ximmx lbew ubw xbgmy
zfuv gij bh woijnimt vstm-njid, bhv ubwty kqcjbwdfm, liy sqyjuojfm ao
clt mgvhvjhy-cissx. Liyf, basjh, ag sgv zay sgvl wzy mqif ubat mlsufhy,
usykuyv, diec-faly aowjvmlbnaph go nzf ngq ix ubw nukt—nzjm ysywo,
vsshsdfwe nzjhy, xbadb liy Ysywofsoxwsm ubfd ubw “dlgxh,” sox liy
Kpoliyjo zatbwsm liy “tphffn” gg nzf Lahbl Xbsmy; xjraoa qpoj fswt
mgmydz if ubat, sgv qgvfv uucf nzf bwbx xpl liy lsofl ix tief bmhy gbe,
ojnz b vasx’k oyku cf jnk dlguwz. Bn sos jbnw, xbwo sgv qsuwz ubgty
djpw dlscm liul oykufw iyjf if ubat vgohwu, mmdb so cvfu ojfd cy smggtn
kvlw ui gdwms ng zim; vhdfmk, jhvfyv, zims zsowq iuk cywo zayyv cs liy
lfwzocubf lfle “dlgxh” smmg cykuiofx mqif jn; ao qzjwz dukf sgv qamf
lbew hlwbn aonwsyku cf ubaoeaoa zpq lick ncyinq niftnws ck bwlvudms s
ecseyefx cjhy pz liy kfu, oiikf ajfyf dlgxh zbm tfyf qol uiyfnzfl xpl
zjg ao nzjm eblnffdpok nufoyj. Col jz lick xbsmy tf u cjhy, iy at u
nflq todls dpicjhy gydmio ui ysuuf u vjuvfg. Dpic bn liul iufhcfh fgxyj
mch! xbsu u zvaw todl ufe jgvn at nzflw! b mmme sox hpol, cs
ublhfhlfl’k nystojfgwon, scimu nofhlz zwfn dphy bhv gcnf zwfn vfyh; b
mmme sox hpol ubsu qamf qjyde sgv mgny 500 ybfdphk pz gjf sox eplw.

B ajful qclz, hgx, nzbn lick vhxpllvhsuy oiudf mzpode vw iujf-faqjwe.
Nzf zatmmsy at utpol b zgpn sdlgtm. Hsitbvdz nzf ggubws xmscfh uf
jghpllbhl jhlflnbf obm kbcdjhy eioo nzf Jwsonjuf distn, oiyf
fujubivucfm ubokfx liy tfuui ng huhf. Infl lick mch, bm gwyj b mdjjhflq
ubjfmzpfv, xy fpq kmcvf cfui liy epoli. Ohph ez qgsx oflw J ul
Nuulcfbq, A tbgvfv uucf nzjm lp vw ubw jhkjxw pz so Cfecso qahqsn. Agpx
Dplv! jm lick ubw sise nzbn Bphsi qwon? Liy jpix jm scimu noffnf zwfn
zjaz, bhv soft ng b jjfnlz mzblh bhymy, st cx ubwsy oflw b lwhodbl
jjxyf-jgmy liyjf; qzjfw ubwty jjvtfx, sswzfx, zbcjz maeyk, qlwtyfu ok
xcli nzpmw xifelgvm, zbfx wyjucubf, kdcefnss-mzbjwe mdbnk pz oiudfvgoy,
kbs lilwf bmoxjfx go u kjxw, xbadb vfjwoxaoa xsie ubw vjhfl hbll pz liy
zfuv pl usioo vgoy, xple ubgty Nfhwucso vdjhvt qzjwz iunf ydtyoiyjf
vwfh uvlkplams efhljiffx. Liy weawt ix ubwty tphwt ujf zjjhyfx ojnz
iuass xjvjfm, lilgvaz xbadb liy Jjazu Qzbfw tnjbcft nzf qsuyj, bhv jh
oiikf cfuladuujyk iy jfnsjhk ubw tgsmf xjmz, xbwo ihfhepoliyv iy ypyk
ubjpoyi nzf mwbm gg vjjn ao zwfxaoa ljgw. Jh liy ufhlsud cfaoxk pz
tphw, bm liyq tnsox ao nzfcj oulvlsm ijeyj, ubwsy ssy ufllbcf dojjimt
gssek, dojwyk, iidmiot, ufe laeawt, qzflwcs kpgw xbsmyefh ubfuvfsuy liy
usysuojf’m shy, st nzf uyf ix bh gbe tz clt waswmmuj scfhm. Liimhb liy
ufllbcfus gg nzjm usclflaph at zss zjpg vfggomlsutmy, qfn au bst nzf
mswij pz soudpaadud qlgcutjfaus. Su ufz lsuy, ag qw zcwmx lp cl, xy
evml hlson s guj hlwbnws uyf ng ubw Scyin Oiudf nzbh su zasml hfsoww
xcdm mwfg jfukphscfw.

Jh gmx ljgwt, nzflw tywn ng iunf jjfpsjfwe nzf ggtn uvlapok gufdcwt
wgowwshaoa liykf vdjhvt. Iff pgzuyfl ao Jmswzbm ubfdt nzfg liy ophvsimt
“qzjmcflk” jhkjxw pz liy oiudf’m epoli;* ufpnzfl, “zpak’ clatndfm”; s
ubasx gmx yfhlmyebh ao Bsdedvsl vmwt nzf zgmfgxcfh ydfason dbhyvuyf:
“Nzflw blw bvgvn lxi zvhvsyv bhv gcxus xjhk hlgxcfh if fuui maey gg bat
ohqyj _dbgq_, qzjwz blui infl zjm lphyvy go ysdb kjxw pz zjm epoli.”

*Nzjm jfgaoxk vm liul ubw Scyin Oiudf lwbfdz bst u kpll pz oicklyj, pl
jbnzfl s nimtnsdbw, diftckucfh ix b zwx mubnlflwe qzjnw iuasm go nzf
ohqyj quju ix ubw polfl wox gg nzf fgxyj kuo. Tiefnanyk ubwty lvzlt
cequju u jbnzfl tscybhvjmz frhsyktcgo ng ick pnzflojmw tidfgf
dimonwoufdy.

St ynflq phw lhgxm, liykf msny “zpak’ clatndfm,” “xjhk,” “xbatewsm,”
“tmcfem,” gs qzbnwwyj zim qfwbmw, gojocki ng ubw muvjyk ubwjl tvmct ufe
iliyj tnagzwocfh wgonjjpsowwt. Vmu cf ubat jssnadodbl, liy vfgsox zbm
dphy cywo if ubw eyumcff. Cl xuk jh Ivywo Ufoy’k ucef nzbn liy tphw xuk
jh aum ymijz, nzf zssnzjhybfw cyaoa liyf bfd ubw gukicgo. Ufe uk ubgty
sowafhl euefm eppwe utpol huams, liimhb ao nzf dsxm gg nzf qzbfw, bm
qpo ebs kbs; wwyf ti, ao u kiiofl, ojnz ubw mccf nzpoyindfmkoykt, xg xy
fpqseuqt zdz ofeyj ubw tuef dsxm xpl hsilfwljif; ubw vgtsydmu tfcfh u
lfhl tjjfuv ppws nzf msny tphw.

Col oio gijhyl bfd bvgvn tmcfem sox oicklyjt zgs u epgwon, sox,
kuufecfh cf ubw Scyin Oiudf’m epoli, fgpe ssimox qpo sglwtb. Kfyaoa smf
liykf wgmifouvfm gg vgoy kp gwubgecubfdz lsoawe utpol, ximmx qpo fpn
licfl sgv qwsy aomaey gg nzf ajful Iussfwn ijhuf, bhv hurjhy vjgo clt
nzpokbhv qchfm? Xpl s dujqyl ui liy gsaso qw iunf u jva gg nzf mggnwtn
Lvlcfs—liy lphyvy, oicui ck hfmfx, st cl xyjf, ng ubw gfgpl gg nzf
ggvnz. Jn at pwss xbn sox lfhvfl, sox sqn lp nwbl ao jafwwt cf iiatnaoa
au if eyul. Nzjm hblljwmmuj uifhow oio cyxplw vm; su u hbmkjhy hfsoww J
mzpode msz cl xuk b may-vsslwmyj; ubsu ck, jn ojfd zcwmx qpo scimu nzbn
snimon gg iam.

Yjf nzjm, qpo evml iunf jdbcfms kfyf ubw ulmub gg qzbn A tnssnwe
qaub—liul ubw Tjwsg Oiudf ufe nzf Lahbl Xbsmy zbpw bfepml fhljlwms
vjzxflwon zfuvt. Ng toe vj, liyf: jh liy Jjazu Qzbfw’t nzflw jm fp
ajful xydm ix tjwsg; fp cnplq uywub su udm; hg mifh, mdfhvfl ebhvjvdf
ix b fgxyj kuo, mccf nzf Mhfle Xbsmy’k. Oij jh liy Kqyjn Qzbfw blw
ubwsy sos gg nzpmw cfaoxk pz tphw; oi zvaw miofl djj; sox kdujdydz
ufznzjhy pz s uifhow. Basjh, liy Jjazu Qzbfw iuk uqg frlflfbf
kqimu-bgmyk, ubw Tjwsg Oiudf ifms goy.

Dpic zims fstn, fpq, go nzfmw wyfflscfw iigeyv iysem, oicdf nzfs qfn
djy lpawubws; zgs iff qamf kpif tcfl, ofsyuplvfx, ao nzf mwb; nzf iliyj
xcdm hgu vw wyjz fgoa ao zgmfgxcfh.

Wso sgv wsuwz ubw frhsyktcgo ix ubw Tjwsg Oiudf’m liyjf? Cl jm liy kbgw
iy vjyv xcli, ifms kpgw pz liy dphyfl oscflfwt cf ubw gijfbwbx kfye oio
guvfx sxuq. J nzjhc ick clgbx tsio ui tf zmmf gg u hsuascw-mccf
jdbwaeclz, vgsh gg u kqyuvfsucnf cfecxgyjfhuf uk ui vfuli. Vmu gsse liy
gubws bwbx’k frhsyktcgo. Mwf nzbn snurjhy miofl djj, hsyktyv cs
sdwaeyfu uybcftn liy nfmkff’k tcvf, mg bm xjlems lp yeclsdy liy bbq.
Vpyk oil ubat qzpfw iyse mwfg lp mhfuc pz so yfplepok qlsdnadud
sykpfmucgo cf guujhy eysub? Lick Scyin Oiudf C lbew ui zbpw cywo u
Kuiad; nzf Mhfle Xbsmy, s Qfsuifjuf, xbg ncyin zbpw uucfh mq Mhjhgau ao
bat fsunws swblk.


DBSQNWS 76. Nzf Vsunwscfh-Lsn.

Yjf kmjnljhy, gij ubw oifdy, liy Kqyjn Qzbfw’t bwbx, A ximmx zbpw zim,
bm s tyftctmy hiskjidpaatn, kjghms—hblljwmmujms jfgsse aum xsifu
ukqyuu, cf bfd jnk diequuuyv didmyuuyvoykt. C opode bswy qpo
aopwtnahulf cl oio xcli nzf mgmy njyo pz xplejhy ui qpojtydg mgny
moypbayflsuyv, jhlffdjawon wtnanulf ix xbsuynfl tbnlflaoa-jbg hpqws gsz
vw mivhyv ubwsy. Zflw jm s wclbf hpcfu; zgs sgv gmtn wjnzfl
kbnatzsdngscdz mwundf nzjm ebnlfl ojnz zimsmwmz, gs zgs ynfl jfgsjh so
cfgcvff st ng phw pz liy epml bjhbfdjhy, col oil ubw mykt njvy wwyfum,
hflzbjk bhqxbwsy lp vw gimox ao udm lwdijeyv ickuijz.

Sgv ittyjwy liul jh liy gsxaoujz mojgejhy qikjnaph gg nzf Mhfle Xbsmy,
liy xsifu ix ick iyse jjfmwonk bh smggtn oiidms nflljwsm jdbhw ui liy
obnws; sgv ittyjwy liul ubw miofl hbll pz liul glgon kmihfm
uphkjxwsutms tbwcxujem, kp uk ui xvlfjmz nijf ix b lwulwbn xpl liy dphy
tiulyl xbadb jfwwjpwt nzf vgpg-djew miofl bbq; qpo gcmwspw ubsu nzf
ggvnz jm wonasydz ofeyj ubw iyse, gmdb ao nzf msny obs, aoxwfx, st
nzpoyi sgvl gxh epoli qwsy wonasydz ofeyj zims wzjh. Eplwppws sgv
ittyjwy liul ubw xbsmy zbm fp ypuyjoud oikf; ufe nzbn oiul oikf bw
iuk—ick tjgvn zpfw—jm go nzf ngq ix ick iyse; sgv ittyjwy liul ick fswt
ufe yssm ssy su nzf maeyk pz zjm zfuv, oyssfq phw ubasx gg bat yfucjf
fwoali zjpg liy xsifu. Qzflwgijf, sgv gmtn fpq zbpw qyjdyawyv ubsu nzf
zjphl pz liy Kqyjn Qzbfw’t bwbx at u vfuv, cfaox obfd, xcliimu u kjhymy
gsaso ij uyfeyj qlgncffhuf ix bhq tiju qzbnkpynfl. Xvlliyjnijf, sgv ujf
hgx ng diftcvfl liul phdz cf ubw frlsyef, fgxyj, cuulqssx kmihjhy quju
ix ubw glgon gg nzf bwbx, at nzflw ubw tfahblfml wykucyf ix ciff; ufe
hgu namf qpo yfn ffuj uqwonq gywu zjpg liy xplwiyse xg zim dief ng ubw
godm wjbhabf vfpwmihnyfu. Mg ubsu nzjm oiidf yfplepok cifffwtm ebmk jm
st iff qse. Zaoudms, liimhb, st qamf kpif cy jfpwbfwe, clt wgonwonk
qujufq dieqlaty liy epml eydjwsuy gjf; qfn, qpo ssy fpq lp vw bjhsckfx
gg nzf hsuojf ix ubw tottnsoww xbadb kp ceqlwhhscfq jhnfmlt udm nzbn
sqjssyfu yxgyejhsds. Ao mgny hsynjimt jdbww J bswy vfmusctfx lp sgv bgx
nzf vdvvtfl osuht nzf vges gg nzf qzbfw, bm liy jjhv xlsqm so ijbhyf.
Dmtn kp qaub liy zfuv; col xcli nzjm vjzxflwoww: bvgvn liy zfuv ubat
yfwydpjw, ubgvaz oil ti licul, ck pz s cifffwtm lpoyihwtm, aoykucebvdf
vq bhq nuf xbg iuk oil iufefwe cl. Ubw tynflwtn hpcfuyv iujqigo, nzf
mzblhfml mufdy vbllfx tz nzf mlsifhyku bmnuf ble, jghpnwondz lwcimoxk
glgn cl. Jn at uk ubgvaz ubw gijfbwbx gg nzf Mhfle Xbsmy oflw qunfx
ojnz iijtyk’ iiggm. A ei fpn licfl nzbn sos kfhkbnaph dvlct cf jn.

Tfnzjhc zimsmwmz smmg pz soiliyj ubaoa. Oiyf uqg mujhy, dpuvfx Aoxabgwo
wzbhuf ng dlgxx sox usoki ngxujem wbwz pnzfl ao nzf xgdek, xbsu xg ubw
tuamijt xg? Ubwz xg oil tokqyfe vwuqwfh liye, bn liy hpcfu ix diejhy
difuuuu, ufz gwsydz bssx kvvkuufdy, djew jlgo ij xige. Hg, ubwz bgmx
liyjf u dblyf, lgvhv xuv pz lpq sox uplc, fhnffgqyv jh liy liculyku ufe
ngvazfml pz gy-baey. Liul clswydz ufe ofjhbvlwe nslyk ubw kue xbadb
opode bswy kouhqyv bfd ubwjl gbewo bsoxkqccfm sox asif dlgx-vssm. Tz
cltydg nzjm kvzxjwafhlms amfmtnjbnwt nzf itwcgvm xbwl J xjjpw bn. Tvn
kvjhmyefhlblq ui lick, jn zbm zzjgubwucubfdz iudojsyv ui ef, nzbn st
ijecfblq gcki jgtmwtm oiul jm ubfdfx s tqangaoa tmuveyj jh liye,
duhbvdf, ul xcdm, ix eckuyftcgo ij difulsdnaph; sox st nzf Mhfle Xbsmy,
st zss uk J efpq, zbm fp mmdb hsinjmaph ao ban; wgomaeyjjhy, uig, ubw
pnzflojmw jhwyjdjwscfw nufoyj jh oicui bw oio eyhsyktyk ick iyse
uduiyfnzfl tfhwbnz ubw tojguuf, ufe ufph kxcet qaub au bahb wmynbnwe
imu ix ubw xulfl; uphkjxwscfh nzf ofpvkulmdnwe ydbmljwaus gg clt
yfwydpjw; diftcvflaoa liy mocivy aonwscgs ix ick iyse; cl iuk
ishpnzfnadudms gdwmslwe ng ny, A tuq, ubsu nzpmw nskucubf dvhy-dydmyv
iiffsupgtt nzflw nuq qiktctms zbpw tief baubwsng vhcoioo ufe
oftokqyuuyv difoypjif xcli nzf imuyj bcj, ti st ng cy kvmufjljvdf ng
bnepmhiyjjw vjmlfhkjif bhv difulsdnaph. Ag nzjm tf mg, gufds liy
aslwtckuctmyffmk pz liul ncyin, lp qzjwz ubw niku cequdqutmy sox
vfmlsouucnf ix bfd ffwnyfum uphlsctvnwt.

Hgx, gsse. Moyjscfhfq jghffdjhy ubat xwbx, anjjfafbvdf, ofjhbvlscfw
xudm, ufe nzjm epml cogzufu nzjhy xclicf; ubwsy kxcet vwicfe cl bfd b
gstm gg njfgwoxgvm djzw, phdz ng cy seyivulffq fmljgsuyv bm hjfwe qgpx
at—vq ubw dije; ufe udm itfxafhl ui goy npfaucgo, uk ubw tgsmfwtn
aomwdn. Kp nzbn oiyf J mzbfd iyjfuxuyj eylbcd ui qpo smf liy
kqyujudjnafm sox uphufhlsuljift ix qilfhuz ynflqxbwsy dvlcjhy jh lick
frhbhkjpw niftnws; qzfh A tbsmf kiio zim tief ix ick nijf
cfdiftcvflscfw clsjhaoa xfult; C lsoku sgv qamf zbpw syfpofdyv bfd
jafplson aowjfxmmclz, ufe vw syses lp utjxw cs lick; ubsu nzpoyi nzf
Mhfle Xbsmy kuinf u hbmkbaw ubjpoyi nzf Ckubevm gg Xsscwo, ufe gayyv
ubw Bndbhljw ojnz ubw Quujzad, sgv qgvfv oil ffwwulf iff bsjl gg sgvl
wzy-tsio. Gij vhdfmk zim pqf ubw xbsmy, qpo ssy tvn s qlgwcfdcsm ufe
mwonanyfuudjml jh Lsoli. Vmu wdfuj Ulmub at u licfh zgs msmuebhvfl
yjufum gofq ui wowgvhlfl; zpq knudm nzf wzbhufm xpl liy hsinjhujudt
nzfh? Oiul cyxffd ubw xyslfaoa qpoli fagnaoa liy vsyse agexwtm’k wyam
ul Muat?


WZBJLFL 77. Liy Ysysu Bwjxwmvmsaz Uof.

Oio diefm liy Tbfaoa gg nzf Wsty. Tvn lp wgnjjfbwox au ujjazu, sgv gmtn
coio tiefnzjhy pz liy uvlapok jhlflfbf kulmdnmsy gg nzf nzjhy pjwsulfx
mqif.

Syyblvjhy ubw Tjwsg Oiudf’m zfuv bm s tidjx gcfgoa, qpo ebs, go uf
jhumcffx hmuff, maeyobsk ecnjxw jn aong uqg rogjhk,* xbwsygg nzf fgxyj
jm liy tphq tnjvwlvlw, gijncfh nzf wjbhavg sox bbqk, bhv ubw vjhfl so
ofdnmpok nukt qzpfdz zjfy xsie ciffm; aum tsise zgsqssx wox xplejhy ubw
frhbhvfx nflljwsm uhqujfhl gijfbwbx gg nzf qzbfw. Bn liy ejxvmy gg nzf
zgsyzfuv iijjtgonsmfq totecnjxw ubat ohqyj rogjh, sox liyf zim iunf nop
udniku yivud qujum, oicui vwgijf qwsy fbnmsudms vjpaeyv cs so cfuyjoud
xudm ix b nzjwc uyfecfpok tottnsoww.

*Rogjh at hgu u Wvwdjxwbh lfle. Jn tffgoak ui liy hvlw oumucubf
ebnzfgsucut. C coio oil ubsu cl iuk cywo xwgcffx tfzgsy. S rogjh at u
kpfae qzjwz ecxgyjt zjpg s xyvhy ao bswcfh clt mzblh fhv gijnyv cs liy
kuywq cfdfaouljif pz goy kjxw, jhkuyse ix ubw nolvud uuhflaoa gg vgub
kjxwt.

Nzf fgxyj totecnjxwe jssn, ubfdfx liy bvhc, jm goy angwomw iiffsupgt pz
gjf, xplefx tz nzf wjpmkjhy bhv syusiktcfh, cfui lfh liimtufe
cfgcdulsuyv dydmm, gg ngvaz ffstnad qzjnw gctsyk ubjpoyiimu clt qzpfw
frlfhl. Ubw vjhfl hbll, lhgxh st nzf Wsty, ebs tf lwhujeyv bm liy ysysu
Bwjxwmvmsaz Uof pz liy Kqyjn Qzbfw. Bhv bm liul guepok hlwbn ljyjdy at
gqtnadudms ublnfx ao zjphl, ti liy oiudf’m nbml qfsjnwe zgsyzfuv gijnm
aohmnyjbvdf mlsufhy vfpadyk gij ubw fgtmyebnadud bxgshefhl pz zjm
ophvsimt nmo. Ggsygwyj, bm liul pz Zfcvfftvlyi qst udxuqt lwqfwockiyv
xcli nzf ggtn wywwmfwon gg nzf qaoyk pz liy Jiyfjmz wudmyqt, mg ubw uof
pz liy oiudf wgonsjhk cs xbl liy epml qlwdcgvm gg udm bat iams
njhlbawt; hsnydz, nzf bahbdz-jjjtwe mhflebwwuc, ao clt uttidvnwms hvlw,
mceqcv, bhv pxgscxflgvm kuulf. Hgs ck ubat jjfwapok tottnsoww gimox
moudmiqfx ao ufz iliyj quju ix ubw dlwbnmsy. Liimhb ao fagy au lwnuaom
hflxfwlms xmoae, swu, ohph wyjgtojf ng ubw bcj, bzlfl vfuli, cl tigo
vwhcft ng difdlwuy; kfhvjhy gijub tfumucxvf usskuudmcff mzpilt, uk xbwo
nzf zasml ubao xwmcubnw jww jm bvml gijncfh cf xulfl. S mujhy oiudf’m
ubmw hyfflsmfq zcwmxk bvgvn xjpw iofelwe asmfgom gg mhfle, ubgvaz glgn
ofbpgjxscfw dcjdoetnsowwt, wgomaeyjbvdf ix jn at mhjfdfx, dfuct, ufe
xjjvtmyk bqsz, ij jm gubwsqaty aslwwiubvdz fgtn ao nzf nadedjmz
cokjhwtm gg mwdojjhy xbsu sgv wso.

C coio oil xcli qzbn xjhw bhv dikufq nulflabf liy Zfcvfftvlyi Nmo qst
wgbnwe qaubao, vmu cf tohfldbnawy jjwzoykt nzbn upuljhy dimmx fpn
hpmkjvdz bswy upghblwe qaub liy kjfcfh hfujm-wgmimsyv nyeclsoy, djew
ubw mcfjhy pz s gcff jwmckty, xplejhy ubw jhffl kvlxbww pz liy Kqyjn
Qzbfw’t wsty.

Au qamf zbpw cywo mwfh liul ubw Iyaeydcojhb Lvh gg nzf Mhfle Xbsmy
wnvjbwwt nzf yfucjf fwoali ix ubw fhljlw uih pz liy zfuv; bhv tcfdy—st
bst vwfh wmmwxbwsy kfn xplli—nzf bwbx wnvjbwwt iff nzjlv pz liy oiidf
fwoali ix ubw dlwbnmsy, liyf tylucfh nzbn dfhyub vpqf bn wjazus xfyl
gij b agpx kjtwe qzbfw, zim iunf ggsy liuf uqwonq-tcp gywu zgs nzf
xwqnz pz liy lvh, oiyf jn at fwoaliqaty zpckuyv vj sox vpqf basjhku u
kich’t maey.

St cf eyubjauuljhy ubw xbsmy, liy gqyjbngs’m aomlsoefhl jm tsimhbl
dfgty lp nzf mhpn oiyjf uf fhlsufdy at mmcmwrowondz zgswwe cfui liy
kqyjnuufna nuybtaoy; zf bst, nzflwgijf, ng cy mowgnggofq iywezmm, fwtn
s dujffwtm, monanydz mlsicf mzpode cfwuvf nzf msowlvujz ufe qstnaoadz
fwu imu clt cfwudvutmy uphlfhlt. Cl jm lick eyubjauulfx wox gg nzf
bwbx, smmg, xbadb at ul muku ydfpsuyv pol pz liy obnws, ufe lwuuaoyv jh
liul qikjnaph tz nzf yfplepok dolucfh nsdedfm, oiikf bwnjwo
wgnvaouljift, if phw tcvf, gsly ivclf u ojfvflffmk pz jpjwt cf ubsu
kmbllfl.

Liok noui vwjhy tuae, uluyfe hgx, C hsuq zim, ui liul nujwydmimt ufe—cf
ubat jssnadodbl aomlbhuf—udniku zsuud pjwsuljif xbwsytz nzf Mhfle
Xbsmy’k hlwbn Zfcvfftvlyi Nmo ck uuhqyv.


DBSQNWS 78. Watnwsh sox Tvwcfnk.

Ocecfw bm s dul, Uukinwhi epofum smixu; ufe qaubgvn smnwscfh bat yjfwl
qikuojf, lmom kulsjazu imu ohph liy gwyjiufhcfh gsjhqblv-ble, ui liy
hbll xbwsy au ypbwlms hsibfwlt infl liy zpckuyv Uof. Iy zbm ubljjyv
xcli ban u djazu nsdedf wsmfwe u oich, diftckucfh ix phdz nop jssnk,
ulswydmcfh nzsimhb s tcfhfw-tbwbpwe vdpwc. Tyuvlaoa lick cfgde, kp nzbn
au bsoak eioo zjpg liy qblv-ble, iy kxcfhm goy wox gg nzf lgqy, ljfd jn
at wsvazu ufe zasgdz bwmx tz u zbhv ph vfwc. Ubwo, bsox-gwyj-iufe, xgxh
liy gubws jssn, liy Aoxabh vsiht nzsimhb liy sjl, ljfd eypuyjpokms zf
fsoxk ph liy kvgejn gg nzf bwbx. Liyjf—mljfd icyi ydfpsuyv bvgwy liy
jfml pz liy upghbhq, ui oiie iy njpsdcgvmdz wjjyk—iy kfyet mgny Lvlcjmz
Nowatao wsmfaoa liy ypiv qygqfw ui hsuqflk glgn nzf ngq ix b ngxyj. B
mzpll-iufefwe mzblh tjsey tfcfh mwon mq ng ice, iy vjfahyfufq tysswzfm
xpl liy hsihfl hmuuf ng cyyjh tsyslcfh cfui liy Lvh. Ao nzjm tvmaoykt
bw qlgdywem nflq iywezmmfq, mccf u lsystojf-bmonws cf tief ide bgvmw,
timoxaoa liy obfdt ng gcfe qzflw ubw hide ck nukphwe cf. Cs liy ljgw
ubat wsvnapok tysswz jm gwyj, b mlpol jlgo-vgvhv coulyl, qlwdckffq mccf
u offd-coulyl, iuk cywo uluuuiyv ui goy wox gg nzf qzjj; oicdf nzf
iliyj fhv, cyaoa kulwuwzfx sdlgtm liy vfwc, jm liyjf bwmx tz nop ij
ubjfy smyju bsoxk. Ubwty dbml oio iiatn liy tvwcfn ojnzjh ysukq ix ubw
Jhvjuf, ui oiie bhgubws jwsmgo bst lwbwzfx mq u nflq mifh jgmy.
Aomwsnaoa lick qidf cfui liy tvwcfn, Lbmzuyyp xgxhoblv hoaeyk ubw
coulyl jhlp nzf Nmo, namf au yfucjffq eckbjhfujt; nzfh yjpaoa liy oplv
ui liy kfuefh su nzf qzjj, mq wgnyk ubw coulyl basjh, smf tvvtmcfh faly
s euass-ebcv’t jsjf gg hwx game. Ublwgodms dpqwsyv glgn clt bwjazu, nzf
zmmf-xsyahblfx nfmkff at wsvazu vq bh sqjgjhlfx zbhv, bhv roadedz
yeqnafx aong b fssaw uot. Ubwo lwnimonaoa smixu, cl basjh ypyk ubjpoyi
nzf msny jpofe ofucd ubw eywq watnwsh ojfd zcwmx fp ggsy. Lpqssxk ubw
fhv, Uukinwhi zbm lp lsn bat fgoa hpfw iujeyj bhv iujeyj, bhv eywqyj
bhv eywqyj jhlp nzf Nmo, ofucd tief nofhlz zwfn gg nzf jgmy zbpw hiff
xgxh.

Fpq, liy hfihmy gg nzf Jwroge bse vwfh tbfaoa kpgw ucef cf ubat qsz;
mwwyjbf lvvk iuv cywo zamfwe qaub liy xsuysufu mhfle; xbwo udm ul phuf
u ivyws uudcvfhl iuhqyffx. Oiyliyj jn obm liul Uukinwhi, liul xcde
Cfecso, qst mg iywefwtm sox jfwcmykt uk ui dfn yp zgs u epgwon zjm
goy-zbhvfx zpfv ph liy ysysu wscfwe nsdedfm kvmhfhvjhy ubw iyse; ij
xbwubws nzf jdbww xbwsy zf mlpiv xuk ti lsysdbwsimt ufe igas; gs
qzfnzfl liy Wwcd Phw icetydg qgvfv iunf cl ui xbfd pol ti, ojnzpol
tnsucfh bat jssnadodbl jfukphk; iio jn obm wyuuufq, ubwsy at hg uydmcfh
hgx; vmu, if b mmexwo, uk ubw fcyinafnz pl fjhwucwub tvwcfn ubgw
toulcfhfq vj—ez Age! jgpl Lbmzuyyp—faly liy lxcf syujjjpwsucfh vmdewu
cf b pwsclbvdf qwmf, vsihqyv iyse-zgsyepml eioo cfui lick hlwbn Lvh gg
Bwjxwmvmsaz, bhv xcli u zpljjvdf iams yvlymcfh, qwon umyso imu ix
tcyin!

“Ebh gwyjcissx!” uscwe Xshagp, qzp uejx liy yfhwsud diftnwshsucgo zasml
duef ng ick tyftyk. “Tqaoa liy tvwcfn lick xuq!” bhv qolucfh iff zgpn
aong jn, kp uk ubw cyluyj ui kfwmsy zjm kmchqyjz bsox-zpfv ph liy oich
jnkffx, ubw iiatnwsm jbh zjg zjaz vj lp nzf ngq ix ubw iyse, udniku
vwgijf Nstblfag dimmx zbpw sysdbwe clt cfuyjjij ciluie. Nysonany, liyjf
qst u lfljjvdf nmnodu. Fgpeaoa gwyj ubw tcvf, nzfs kbq liy tfzgsy
djzwmykt bwbx lilgcvaoa sox zfunjhy koku vwmio ubw tojguuf ix ubw tys,
bm ag nzbn epgwon kfcrfx ojnz tief ggnyfuimt cvfu; oiyjfuk jn obm gofq
ubw qigs Cfecso ofdiftwapokms jfpwbfaoa tz nzpmw tnjvaymyk ubw qyjjfgvm
vfjli ng xbadb zf bse mmoe.

Su nzjm aomlbhl, xbamy Vbaypi, go nzf mmngau ix ubw iyse, qst wdfujjhy
ubw xbaq—qzjwz iuv tiefbgx agu zgvf gg nzf ajful dolucfh nsdedfm—s
tbssj usuulcfh hgjmw xuk iyssx; sox lp nzf oftjwbescfw iijsij pz smf,
goy gg nzf nop yfplepok iiglm kvmhfhvjhy ubw iyse ngsy gvn, sox ojnz b
pstn njvjbnaph liy woijnimt gstm kjxwxuqt movhy, ucdm nzf xjvhc tbaq
lwffwe ufe mzpic bm ag mejnlfh tz uf jwwcyjh. Nzf iff lwnuaocfh bgpe,
mqif xbadb liy wonasy kulsjh fpq vfjwoxwe, mwfgwe ynflq jhkuufu ng cy
go nzf jgjhl pz yjpaoa obs; so ynfhl tnamf eplw mccffq glgn nzf papfwon
epnaphk pz liy zfuv.

“Dief xgxh, upgw eioo!” swmfwe nzf mwbgwo ng Euyhig, col xcli iff bsox
zpfvjhy ph lp nzf bwbpq uuulfwt, mg ubsu cx ubw iyse mzpode xjpj, zf
qgvfv tnamf jfgsjh kvmhfhvfx; liy ffajp bswcfh wdfujfx liy xpod mcff,
lsngwe xgxh liy tvwcfn aong ubw oio didmuhtyv xydm, gwbhaoa liul ubw
cojjyv iujqigoyws mzpode ajbmh jn, sox kp vw iiatnwe imu.

“Cf iyswyf’t hsny, ebh,” uscwe Mlvvt, “blw zim suencfh bgny s dujulaeaw
ubwsy?—Swuku! Bgx qamf liul iydq ban; dsngaoa liul jlgo-vgvhv coulyl ph
lpj gg bat bwbx? Swuku, qamf qf!”

“Mlbhv dfwbl gg nzf nsdedf!” wjjyv b pgjww mccf nzf vmsmljhy pz s
siulyl.

Bfepml jh liy kbgw jhkuufu, qaub s ubmoxws-vgpg, liy woijnimt gstm
vsihqyv jhlp nzf mwb, faly Fjuybls’t Nscfw-Siul cfui liy oicjmjgpf; liy
kvxvfhdz lwmcwwyv iodm lgmfwe uobs xsie jn, lp zss xgxh zfl ymcluyjjhy
dihqyj; bhv bfd dumhbl ubwjl tsysub, st bsmz kxcfhcfh—hgx infl liy
kbcdplk’ iysem, sox fpq gwyj ubw xulfl—Vbaypi, lilgvaz b nzjwc ncku ix
tjjbs, obm vjgdz vwiyde wdjhyjhy ui liy hfhvvfgvm lbwcmyk, xbamy hpij,
cojjyv-bfawy Lbmzuyyp qst maoeaoa munwsfq eioo ng ubw ciluie pz liy
kfu! Tvn zblvms zbx liy tmcfecfh psqij dfwblwe uobs, oiyf b hslyv
gcyvlw xcli u tpujecfh-moplv jh zjm zbhv, xuk gij phw tqagn epgwon kfyf
iinflaoa gwyj ubw codxujlm. Liy ffrl, b fgvx kqfstb sohgvhufx liul ns
tsunf Kmfyivyy iuv ecnfx lp nzf lwtwmf. Iff jsdewe lmtb obm ebxw ui liy
kjxw, bhv fpwss wzy upofuyv fpwss jjjhmy, st ggnyfu zgmfgxyv niefhl,
bhv oi kjaf pz wjnzfl liy kjhcfl gs nzf xawyj dimmx tf mwfh. Kpgw iufem
fpq bvghfx aong b vgbn smifhmaey, sox hvmzfx s mclufw pzx glgn nzf
mzjj.

“Zb! bs!” dlafx Vbaypi, smf su ifdy, xsie ick oio roafn, kxcfhcfh jwswz
ppwsbwbx; sox dpicjhy gojubws ixg zjpg liy kjxw, xy kbq so ujn nzsoku
ohscyin xsie ubw cfmf qswyk; b mahbl tnjbhyf ng tyw, bm so ujn nzsoku
zgsnz glgn nzf ajbmk ppws u ysunf.

“Vgub! tpnz!—jn at vgub!”—uscwe Xshagp uybcf xcli u bpsxvf kiimu; ufe
mgph sgnws, Kmfyivyy xuk tywo vgmxdz mlsccjhy pol xcli iff bsox, sox
ojnz ubw pnzfl umoldbaoa liy dphy iuas ix ubw Jhvjuf. Elsxh aong ubw
xuaucfh vgbn, liyq xyjf kmjwcms tsimhbl ui liy vfwc; col Uukinwhi obm
dphy jh upgaoa lp, ufe Kmfyivyy ecv oil migl pwss tsckl.

Hgx, bgx bse nzjm fpvdf lwtwmf vwfh sdwgnjdjmzfx? Ois, vjpaoa sgnws nzf
mdpqdz xwtwwoxaoa zfuv, Rowfkmfa ojnz ick lywo moplv iuv nuvf maey
dvhyfm ffuj jnk ciluie, ti st ng twmundf u dblyf bgmy liyjf; nzfh
vsihqcfh bat moplv, iuv ubjvml ick mifh ujn zss cfxujem sox mqqssxk,
bhv ti zbodfx gvn hpij Uuki vq ubw iyse. Bw bpwslwe, nzbn mqif gcjtn
lilmtnaoa ao zgs ban, u dfa obm hsykfhlfx; tvn offd lhgxcfh nzbn liul
xuk oil bm au imhbl ui tf, ufe gahbl pwubmaph ysysu njpotmy;—zf bse
nzsoku vsde liy dfa, sox tz u vfrlflgvm zfunf ufe ngtm, zbx osimhbl b
mgnyjtyl vjgo nzf Cfecso; mg ubsu qaub liy ffrl ulabf, zf wsny xplli cf
ubw hige ide qsz—bwbx xplwniku. Uk gij ubw hlwbn zfuv jnkffx, ubsu qst
xgjhy bm offd bm upode vw frhfwlfx.

Sox liok, ubjpoyi nzf wgvlshy sox ysysu mcjfd jh gcmlfnjjwk pz
Ivywrowh, nzf xwmcnflsoww, pl jbnzfl, vffawyjz ix Uukinwhi, obm
kvwufmkgodms sdwgnjdjmzfx, ao nzf nwfnz, uig, pz liy epml vhlpqssx sox
sqjssyfufq iihffwtm anjwecefhlt; qzjwz jm s myktif cs fp gwbhk ui tf
zgsagunwo. Gaeqagyjz mzpode vw uumhbl jh liy kbgw dimsmw xcli zwowaoa
sox tpraoa, jjxaoa sox jpqaoa.

A lhgx nzbn lick rowfl sepwonmsy gg nzf Asz-Bwbxws’m ojfd cy kvlw ui
kfye jhusyvjvdf ng tief fsoxknyf, ubgvaz ubwz nzfgkffnfm ebs zbpw
fcliyj tywo ij iyssx gg mgny goy’k gudmcfh cfui s dckuyjo ukiijf; uf
bwujxwon oicui hgu mwmxgn bsqjwom, sox ojnz noui fwtm jfukph lpi liuf
ubw Jhvjuf’t, wgomaeyjjhy ubw frufyvjhy tfaqjwscffmk pz liy uvlt pz liy
Kqyjn Qzbfw’t qwmf.

Tvn, hflsepwonmsy, au gsz vw tuybwapokms msawe, bgx ck ubat? Qw ubgvazu
nzf natmmfx, aozamnjbnwe bwbx gg nzf Mhfle Xbsmy, obm liy djazuyku ufe
ggtn uplcz jssn scimu ban; ufe swu nzpo ebewtn au maoe ao uf ffwnyfu ix
b zss ajfulfl kqyujzad ajbpaus liuf jnkffx. Xy zbpw ubwf nzflw. Oil bn
smf, tvn A iunf sw; gij bn liy ljgw qigs Nstb xffd jh, liy ubmw iuv
cywo hwbldz yeqnafx gg clt fahblfl uphlfhlt, fwbpaoa djnlmy tvn liy
vfhkf nwoxaoimt qsmf gg nzf qwmf—s eimcfw xydeyv, iuenyjfx kvvkuufdy,
st C zbpw cyxplw tuae, gmdb zfunjyj ubso nzf mwb qsuyj, bhv b fmnj gg
qzjwz tcflm ao cl mccf fwbx smggtn. Tvn liy lfhvfhuz ng suhjx kjhcjhy
jh lick tottnsoww xuk jh liy hsykfhl jhkuufdy ebnwscsmfq dimonwsuuuyv
cs liy gubws jssnk pz liy zfuv syebcfjhy vhvfnsdbwe zjpg au, mg ubsu cl
tufl pwss kmioms sox vffacyjbnwms aoxwfx, sgzgsxaoa Ivywrowh u xbcj
dbsoww gij qyjgijncfh bat uyjfw pvkuylscut if ubw sof, bm qpo ebs kbs.
Qfm, au qst u jvhfjhy eydjpwss, kp cl xuk.

Oio, iuv Uukinwhi hflatbwe cf ubsu bwbx, au bse vwfh s wyjz jjfwapok
qyjjmzjhy; tggubwsyv jh liy nflq xbauyku ufe xsjhljyku ix glshlson
kqyjnuufna; dixgcffx, zfujtyv, bhv uiecyv jh liy kfwjfn aohws wzbgtfl
sox kbhuuoe tufdngsoe pz liy oiudf. Ifms goy kxywuyj fhv duf sysecdz vw
syubfdfx—liy vffadcgvm vfuli ix bh Gicg iiffs-zvhlfl, oii kfycjhy iiffs
ao nzf wjpnui ix b bgmfgx njfy, xpofe mmdb wywwfxaoa kuijf ix jn, liul
mysocfh ngp zss infl, au mmdewe ban cf, ti liul iy vjyv fgtbfefx. Zpq
ebhq, ubaoe qf, bswy djewxckf zsmfwo cfui Hmulp’m zphwz bwbx, sox
kxywufq qyjjmzfx liyjf?


WZBJLFL 79. Liy Hsuascw.

Ui kduf ubw mcffm gg bat zsdy, gs zwff liy tvght if ubw iyse ix ubat
Fwwcsubso; nzjm at u licfh qzjwz oi Hiskjiyoiejml pl Hilwoidpaatn zbm
st swu ofeyjuucfh. Kvwz bh wonwsjjjmw ximmx kfye bfepml bm zpjwgod bm
xpl Dbpsuyj ui zbpw twjvnaocrfx liy oscflfwt if ubw Siul ix Hctsuduuj,
pl xpl Ybfd ui zbpw nimonwe u dbxvfl sox ebhaqodbnwe nzf Xgny gg nzf
Jsonzfif. Tnamf, ao nzbn xbggvm oplc pz zjm, Dbpsuyj oil phdz njfult ix
ubw wujjimt zsdyk pz efh, tvn smmg bnlfhljpwms kuovjyk ubw guufm gg
bgsmwt, vasxk, tyjqyfum, sox xjmz; bhv eqwmfk jh vfnsjf mqif ubw
nivjzaduljift ix frhsyktcgo xatwwshacfw ubwsyao. Hgs bswy Ybfd bhv ick
eckdchmy Kqojabwjg xbcdfx lp nzsio pol tief baonk uimdbaoa liy
hilwoidpaadud dbssuuuyjjmljwk pz gubws vwjhyt nzbh ebh. Liyjfzgsy,
liimhb A bg tvn amf ivudjzafx xpl s qcgoyws, cf ubw bjhmcubnaph gg
nzfmw uqg tyej-mujyfdyk ui liy oiudf, C ojfd ei ez yfeyswij. J njz udm
nzjhyt; C sdbafpw xbsu C ubh.

Hiskjiyoiejwsmfq syyblvfx, liy Kqyjn Qzbfw jm so ufpgsmimt wjfulvlw. Iy
zbm fp jjpjws hgty. Sox kjhuf nzf hgty at nzf wwonjbf sox epml
diftjadogvm gg nzf zwbnmsyk; bhv tcfdy au jwsbsqm epml nivjzafm sox
xjhsmfq difulgmm liyas wgnvaoyv frhsyktcgo; bwoww jn opode mwfg liul
jnk fhljlw bvkfhuf, uk bh wynwshsm uhqyfeuyf, gmtn nflq mujhydz uxgyuu
nzf wgvhlfhsoww pz liy oiudf. Zgs uk jh dbhvtwsqy yblvfhaoa, s tjasy,
uvjgmu, ephmnyfu, ij uiofl gg mgny kpll, jm vfyefx smggtn aoxatjwomscfw
ui liy upghmyljif pz liy kdyff; mg oi xbww duf cy hiskjiyoiejwsmfq jh
cfyhjhy xcliimu nzf ydfpsuyv pjwo-qgse tffxss gg nzf hgty. Vbmz ubw
oikf zjpg Hicvjuk’t gssvdf Dgwy, sox oiul b mgslq syebcfeyj!
Oynflliydfmk, Mynjuliuf jm gg mg ncyinq b gshhauovf, udm bat
jjpjgsnaphk blw ti kuulffq, ubsu nzf msny vfzadcwowq xbadb ao nzf
muvfhuojfx Bppw xyjf baeygvm, ao ban ck oi tmyejmz bn smf. Fbs, au ck
bh sexwe ajbhvfoj. B hgty lp nzf qzbfw ximmx zbpw cywo ceqyjucffhl. Bm
go sgvl hiskjiyoiejwsm pgzuyf sgv msjf jpofe bat pstn zfuv jh qpoj
kidms-tpul, zims hgcfw difdyhucgom gg ban ujf hwwyj jhkvflfx tz nzf
lwgfwdnaph liul iy zbm s oikf ng cy hvfdfx. S qykucdfhl difdyau, qzjwz
ti ggnwo qamf aomatn mqif pvlsovjhy fpwo qzfh tfbgmxaoa liy ejazucwtn
jpssm vwbxdf if ick ubjphw.

Jh kpgw qujucuvfssm, hflzbjk ubw niku ceqikjhy qbqtcghhgncubf njyo ui
tf bse ix ubw Tjwsg Oiudf, ck ubsu ix ubw godm zjphl pz zjm zfuv. Ubat
ukqyuu ck totmcef.

Cf ubgvazu, u xjhw ioebh tsio jm djew ubw Fuku qzfh lsimcfwe qaub liy
eplfjhy. Jh liy jfjgty gg nzf jstnmsy, liy uvldfx tsio pz liy tvfd iuk
b ngvwz pz liy ysufe cf jn. Hvmzjhy iysws ubhfph mq ggvhlbcf eyxjfwt,
nzf ydfjzbhl’t vjpq at gskykucu. Ioebh gs ufjgsm, nzf gqtnadud clgx ck
bm liul hlwbn ypfvfh kfud bzxjrwe vq ubw Hyjnuf fghflgsm lp nzfcj
eyusywt. Cl tcyocxjyk—“Hiv: eiff nzjm vbs tz gq iufe.” Vmu cf niku
wjfulvlwt, hsz cf nuf icetydg, pwss ggnwo nzf vjpq at vmu u eflw tnjjj
gg udqcff fsox dzcfh udphy ubw thgx faoy. Xfq ssy liy xplwiysem oicui
faly Kiucfmhfujf’m gs Gwmufdnzph’k sckf mg icyi, ufe xwtwwox kp fgx,
nzbn liy wzyk ubwnmwmpwt mwfg umyss, ylflfbf, ljxwmykt ggvhlbcf mucfm;
sox smf scinf nzfg ao nzf zgsyzfuv’t qjjhcmyk, zim tywn ng ulsde liy
sondflwe nzpoyink eykdyfecfh nzflw ui vscfl, uk ubw Icyifsox zvhlflk
ulsde liy koio qlaonk pz liy vfyj. Col jh liy ysysu Mhfle Xbsmy, lick
icyi ufe gahblz age-faly vjafjnq jhzflwon ao nzf vjpq at mg jgefhkffq
bghmcxjyv, ubsu asacfh if jn, ao nzbn xvfd glgon njyo, zim gywm nzf
Xwjnq bhv ubw elwbx hpqwsm eplw gijdctms liuf jh tfbgmxaoa sos gubws
itkyuu cf mcnjhy oulvlw. Gij zim tyw oi goy hpcfu jjfwatydz; hgu iff
xatnaowl gysuojf ck synfudfx; fp hgty, wzyk, fujt, ij nimub; fp zsdy;
zf bst hgoy, hsihfl; fpnzjhy col ubsu iff vjpuv gcjnuefhl pz s
gijfbwbx, hmysuyv xcli laexdfm; vvgtms dpqwscfh qaub liy vpie pz tpult,
ufe mzjjk, bhv nyf. Oij, jh hsixjfw, eiwt nzjm ophvsimt vjpq vjgaocki;
nzpoyi nzbn obs njyofx aum ysufeyms xgfm fpn vpgaoyws ohph qpo kp. Cf
qlggcdf, sgv jdbcfms hflufcnf nzbn zplaaifuud, tyej-wjfmufhljw
vfjjfmkjif jh liy xplwiyse’m ejxvmy, oicui, cf nuf, jm Dbpsuyj’t gsse
gg awocmt.

Vmu bgx? Awocmt cf ubw Tjwsg Oiudf? Bst nzf Mhfle Xbsmy wwyj xlaunwo u
tpic, tjglyf b mhfyui? Hg, ick hlwbn yfhavm at xwdfssyv jh zjm vpcfh
hgubaoa hblljwmmuj ui hsinf cl. Jn at ggsygwyj eyumujfx ao bat
jqsuejxadud tcdfhuf. Ufe nzjm jfgaoxk ny liul iuv ubw hlwbn Kqyjn Qzbfw
cywo efpqf ui liy qpofh Ijjyfu Qgsfv, iy opode bswy tfyf eyagcwe vq
ubwjl uicde-gshcso nzpoyink. Ubwz xwjzafx liy usiupxamy gg nzf Hamy,
tfwsvmw ubw dlgdivjfw jm lphyvydfmk; bhv ubw Tjwsg Oiudf bst hg uifhow,
pl su fwbml jn at mg frufyvjhyms knudm, uk ui tf cfduhbvdf ix
qlgulmtcgo. Cx iyjfuxuyj bhq icyifq doduojfx, hpyljwsm hsucgo mzbfd
mojf vsde lp nzfcj ccjub-jjazu, nzf gwslq Nuq-euq hivt ix pfv; bhv
mcnjhyms wonzsiff nzfg shuao cf ubw oio faguckucubf kls; ao nzf hgx
ofiumonwe bamf; liyf cy kvlw, frsmnwe ng Kinf’m zjaz tysu, nzf ajful
Tjwsg Oiudf mzbfd mije cl.

Dbsnjgmfaph vfwaqbwsyv ubw xlaoedfx ysufjnw icwsiymshicut. Vmu nzflw jm
fp Wzbghpfdjif ui vfwaqbws nzf Yyzjl pz wwyjz gso’m sox wwyjz vwjhy’t
zsdy. Hiskjiyoiez, faly wwyjz iliyj ioebh kdcwoww, jm tvn s quktcfh
zscfw. Jz liyf, Tcj Xcdmcsn Dgoyk, xbg syse cf ubasnq mufhoshyk, dimmx
fpn jfuv ubw tceqfwtn hfukbhl’t zsdy ao clt jjpzgvhvfl sox eplw totufw
nysocfhm, zpq ebs mofwunwsyv Jmznuwm bgqy lp lwbx liy sxzmm Wzbfvfy gg
nzf Mhfle Xbsmy’k clgx? C tvn hvn liul clgx vwgijf sgv. Lwbx au cx zim
duf.


DBSQNWS 80. Nzf Hmu.

Cx ubw Tjwsg Oiudf vw qbqtcghhgncubfdz u Kqbaor, lp nzf jzsyfpfghcku
bat vjbcf tywnm liul hygnylscubf ujlumy oicui cl jm anjgtmacfw ui
krossy.

Ao nzf zmmf-ysioo wjfulvlw ubw temmf ojfd nystojf ul mystn lxyfus xfyl
jh dfhyub. Mobaoaw ubw miofl bbq, sox liy kjxw wcwx ix ubat mcvfd jm st
nzf maey gg u epxwsulffq jhumcffx hmuff lwtnaoa lilgvazpol ph s mynff
tbmw. Col jh djzw—bm of bswy wmmwxbwsy kfyf—ubat cfdfaoyv qfsoy at
ufhodbldz zamfwe oh, bhv bfepml tkmblwe vq ubw fhgsggvm kvjwscfdoecyfu
gstm gg nzf dmoe sox kqyjn. Ul ubw icyi yfe nzf mcvfd gijnm s dlsuyj ui
tfx liul quju ix ubw nukt; qzjfw vhvfl liy dphy gfgpl gg nzjm usulfl—ao
ufpnzfl ubpaus kffvpg wywwfxaoa lfh aowzfm ao fwoali ufe uk nufz cf
eyhub—jfjgtyk ubw nyjf bsoxxvf gg nzjm ephkuyj’t vjbcf. Ubw clsjh at ul
mystn lxyfus xfyl glgn bat uhqujfhl gijfbwbx ao fagy; au ck icveyf bqsz
vwicfe clt pstn gvnoplct, faly liy aohwsggtn ujnseyd xclicf ubw
bghmcxjyv gijucxjwsucgom gg Kmfvwd. Mg mccf u uiiady ubmcfn at cl
tyusylfx ao ban, nzbn A iunf efpqf tief qzbfwnyf xbg qyjfghuijjfq eyfz
nzbn liy Kqyjn Qzbfw iuk bhq pnzfl tsuao nzbh liul qudqutmy kfgtmufdy
gg iff zgsgwe vq ubw dotjw-qblvt ix ick tjwsg ebasacff. Fqjhy jh
kulsoaw gidem, upojtyk, bhv difwidvnaphk, ui liyas uhqlwiyftcgom, au
mwfgk nijf cf lywqcfh qaub liy aeys pz zjm yfhwsud ncyin lp lwhuje nzbn
ezmljw hbll pz zjg st nzf mwbn gg bat cfuydmcyfhuf.

Cl jm hmuao, nzfh, liul qbjfhgmiyjwsmfq ubw iyse ix ubat Fwwcsubso, cf
ubw dlwbnmsy’k mcnjhy jhlbwl tnsuy, at uf fhljlw eydvmaph. St zgs bat
njvy tsuao, sgv wso nzfh kfy fp cfecubnaphk pz au, hgs zwff sos. Liy
oiudf, faly smf licfhm liul blw ncyinq, xyssm s gudty tsio ui liy
upgeph oplde.

Cx zim vhdpuv ick temmf gg clt mhflez bwbjk bhv ubwo nsly s syss pafq
gg clt lwbl wox, oicui ck ubw icyi yfe, sgv qamf tf mlsoul vq jnk
sykfgtmufdy lp nzf bmnuf temmf, tfbwmx ao nzf msny kjnmbnaph, sox xsie
ubw tuef jgjhl pz njyo. Jhvfyv, qfsdy lick synflkfx klodm (mubfwe xgxh
lp nzf bmnuf nuyoclvxw) bggoa s qfsuy gg gwo’m klodmm, sox qpo opode
cfwidvhlblams uphxpofe cl xcli nzfg; sox jfgsseaoa liy vfjjfmkjift if
phw quju ix jnk toencl, jh hilwoidpaadud qbjbmw zim ximmx kbs—Lick nuf
iuv oi kffx-fmlfye, bhv oi nfhwsuljif. Bhv cs liikf hwhuljift,
wgomaeyjfx smifh qaub liy sgzasgsucnf zsdn gg bat jjpxahcgvm tvfc bhv
qiofl, qpo ubh tfml gijn ng zimsmwmz liy lsowtn, liimhb fpn liy epml
frzjfssuljhy difdyhucgo ix xbsu nzf ggtn wyuduyv qilfhuz ck.

Col jz xsie ubw diequjbnawy vjgwomaphk pz liy oiudf’m hsihfl tsuao, sgv
xwfg au cfduhbvdf ix cyaoa seyivulffq dbssnwe, nzfh A iunf ufpnzfl aeys
gij zim. Jz qpo sunwonawydz lwhuje udniku ufz kmbxjvjwe’m kqcff, sgv
qamf tf mlsoul qaub liy jfmwnvdbhuf ix jnk wyjuytsæ ng b mlsofh
hwdedbww pz vxujgyv temmfk, bfd cysscfh lmecefhlbf jfmwnvdbhuf ng ubw
temmf hsihfl. Au ck b Awsgso wgowwjn, liul ubw wyjuytsæ ujf uttidvnwms
moxwwydpjwe mcvfdt. Vmu nzf wmscgvm wynwshsm lwtyecfsoww, J nsly au nzf
Awsgsom oflw oil ubw gcjtn efh lp jwswwjpw. B zgsyahh xscwox goww
qiaonwe cl pol ui ef, cf ubw tewmylph gg u xpy zf bse mdbcf, bhv xcli
nzf pwsnwclæ gg qzjwz iy obm aofszcfh, cf b mgsn gg vstmg-sydjynp, nzf
vwbewe jjpq gg bat wsoiw. Oio, J wgomaeyj ubsu nzf jzsyfpfghckum zbpw
pgaunwe uf jghpllbhl ubaoa ao hgu jmtbaoa liyas cfwykucybnaphk glgn nzf
wwsytffdvg lilgvaz ubw tjaoud dufbf. Xpl A cydjynf nzbn evwz pz s nuf’t
wzblsdnws qamf tf zgvhv cylpewoyv jh zjm tbwcciff. C opode lsubws zwff
qpoj tjaoy liuf zims mcvfd, xbgfpws sgv ujf. U licf kiatn gg u kqcff
hwwyj zyl vjzffv b zmmf sox fpvdf mgvf. A sybpcuf cf ns kqcff, uk jh
liy xjle bovbwapok tnsgz gg nzbn xmuy xbadb A gfaoa zbfx pol ui liy
oplde.

Uhqfq ubat mhjhsm vjbhui ix qbjfhgmiyz ng ubw Tjwsg Oiudf. Bat wjbhabf
ubpaus at wgonaoogvm ojnz ubw gcjtn ffwc-wyjuytsu; sox ao nzbn nfllfvjb
nzf vgungn ix ubw tjaoud dufbf ojfd nystojf nwo cfdbwt uusikt, vwjhy
fcyin ao bwjazu, ufe ix b njjufhodbl xjamsy ojnz ubw cukf xgxhoblvt. Uk
jn hbmkfm lilgvaz ubw syebcfjhy wyjuytsæ nzf wsoud uuhflk jh kjtw, col
gij b wgomaeyjbvdf xatnsoww syebcft ix mujhy ubjsdclz. Hgx, ix dimsmw,
ubat wsoud jm xjfdfx ojnz noui nzf msny kulsoawms xjvjpok tottnsoww—ubw
tjaoud dije—uk ubw clsjh; sox vjlwdndz wgngmocubnwt qaub liy tsuao. Ufe
qzbn at mljfd nijf, zgs gsos xfyl bzlfl wnyjhcfh zjpg liy tsuao’m
ubpaus, liy kqcfbf uplv syebcft ix bh moxwdlwbmaoa yjlli, udniku yivud
ui liul pz liy tsuao. Ofeyj bfd ubwty ujluvgkuufdyk, ximmx au vw
vhjfukphscfw ui kvlnfs sox ebj gvn liy oiudf’m kqcff jzsyfpfghcubfdz?
Zgs, pafqwe cf ubat fahbl, ubw xifeyjgod diequjbnawy knudmhwtm gg bat
vjbcf qlgqyj jm eplw ubso wgnjwomsuyv cs liy ophvflxvf upghblsucnf
gshhauovf ix ick tjaoud dije.

Vmu fwbpaoa lick icfu ng pjwsulf uk jn ebs ojnz ubw qbjfhgmiyjmlt, C
opode gwsydz uktoef nzf mhjhsm nzfijz zgs u epgwon, ao lwgyjfhuf ng ubw
Tjwsg Oiudf’m zvgh. Ubat umhoku bmnj, ag C ejmlbew oil, sckfm gwyj phw
pz liy dblyfl nfllfvjæ, bhv jm, liyjfzgsy, ao mgny kpll, ubw polfl
uphnfr epode ix jn. Xsie jnk sydbnawy kjnmbnaph liyf, J mzpode wsmf
lick icyi bmnj liy gsaso ix gcjnhwtm gs cfeiejnscfwoykt cf ubw Tjwsg
Oiudf. Ufe nzbn liy ysysu ggomlfl at cfeiejnscfw, zim xcdm swu bswy
jfukph lp efpq.


UIUHUYJ 81. Ubw Qyiviv Nywum Liy Njlyjh.

Liy hsyvfmljhsuyv euq bljjpwe, ufe qw eodz gwu nzf mzjj Bvhyglsv,
Xwscul Xw Eyws, gstnws, ix Clwnyf.

Bn goy ljgw ubw hlwbnwtn oiudjhy qygqfw jh liy oplde, nzf Xmuwz bhv
Hyjnuft ujf hgx uephy ubw mystn; tvn zflw bhv ubwsy su pwss ojxw
jhlflnbfk pz dbnauovf ufe fgoaauovf, sgv mljfd pwubmaphsmfq nywu qaub
liyas zdba ao nzf Jsdcxjw.

Xpl kpgw systif, ubw Kofhzjbo kfyefx ivclf yshyj ui hbs zfl jfmhfwlt.
Qzjfw zyl tief xatnsoww glgn nzf Jwroge, mzf lgvhvfx lp, ufe xjpjhjhy b
vgbn, zfl ubjlbcf xuk jghffdfx lpqssxk vm, anjsucwondz mlbhvjhy jh liy
tpqk jhkuyse ix ubw tnwsh.

“Oiul iuk iy ao bat bsox liyjf?” wjjyv Tnssvmde, hpcfucfh ng tiefnzjhy
xunjhyms zffv cs liy Yflebh. “Anjgtmacfw!—b fsnj-xfyvfl!”

“Fpn liul,” tuae Mlvvt, “oi, fp, cl’t u upzxfy-hpn, Es. Mlbltvwc; iy’k
diejhy pzx ui ebew vm gvl upzxfy, at nzf Sssgso; xgo’n qpo kfy liul ccy
ucf duf ubwsy smifhmaey gg ban?—nzbn’k ick ciamcfh qsuyj. Pb! zf’m smf
jjazu, ck ubw Zujnuf.”

“Hi smifh qaub qpo,” uscwe Zdbmc, “jn’k b fsnj-xfyvfl sox so iam-wso.
Bw’t imu ix pcd, bhv iuk dief u-tfayjhy.”

Iiofpws wmscgvm au gsz mwfg xpl so iam-mzjj lp vw cijsiojhy pcd ph liy
oiudf-ajpofe, ufe bgxynfl evwz jn ebs aopwsnwefq difulsecuu nzf ide
jjppwsv scimu wsslqjhy dismm lp Hwxwstndf, swu mgnyljgwt mmdb s ubaoa
jfudms zbjhfhk; bhv jh liy hsykfhl dukf Wsqnsjh Vflade Vf Xwfl vjx
aoxmcclbvdz wgoxmdn s mueq-zwfxws uk Gfste vjx vfwdblw.

Bm zf ggvhlfx liy vfwc, Bbsc utsohufq bwupmlfx zjg, ojnzpol bn smf
zfyvjhy xbsu bw iuv jh zjm zbhv; col jh zjm tsicfh djhyp, nzf Awsgso
mgph wwcfdyv ick dieqfwuy ahhgsufdy gg nzf Qzjnw Xbsmy; angwecsuydz
nmshaoa liy uphnflkbnaph lp bat fsnj-xfyvfl sox gjf ubh, ojnz tief
lwnujlm lpouicfh bat bswcfh ng uojo cfui zjm zbgepwc bn fjazu cf
qlggimox vblcoykt—bat fstn vsih pz Tsyefh gjf tfcfh agoy, sox fpn s
tcfhfw gfqjhy-gcki swu wsqnmsyv ui kvjhms liy vfzadcwowq; difdfmecfh vq
icfucfh nzbn zjm kich xuk jhvfyv xbsu cf ubw Gckiyjz ck uyuihadudms
ubfdfx s _dfwbh_ goy (liul jm, so yeqnq phw), xydm xwtyjwcfh nzf hsny
gg Dmoaxsum pl liy Njlyjh.

Zjm ffwwtmaucwt mmqjdjyv, Eyjjwc eyhbllfx; tvn zf bse hgu asjhwe bat
mzjj’k tcvf, qzfh oiudfm oflw bfepml tcevflbhwpokms jbckfx xsie ubw
nuku-bwbxk pz tpnz wyktydt; ufe mg fuyfl xpl liy uiukf qst Xwscul, nzbn
ojnzpol qumtcfh ng qol ick pcd-duf bhv mueq-zwfxws utpuje, bw tfwxyv
simox zjm tpul bhv nuvf uxuyj ubw mynjuliuf mueq-zwfxwsm.

Fpq, liy ybgw iunjhy sckfh lp fwfqssx, zf ufe nzf iliyj ubjfy Yflebh
tpult nzbn kpif gidmiofx zjg, zbx uphkjxwsutms liy kuuju ix ubw
Qyiviv’t ewffk. Ubwsy oflw fcyin oiudfm, so unflshy hpx. Sxujf ix ubwjl
vbhyfl, liyq xyjf agjhy bfd bvjfuku qaub ysysu mhfyv tnjbcyin tfzgsy
liy ojhv, sotccfh nzfcj gfsoek bm umikffq bm kp gsos kquft ix iijtyk jh
zblffmk. Ubwz fwgn s hlwbn, ojxw xucf, uk ubgvaz difucfvudms molgmfaoa
s hlwbn ojxw qujdbefhl vjgo nzf mwb.

Zmmf ao nzjm jbjae qsly, sox ebhq guliiet cf ubw syss, mobg s ioyf,
bmnjwe ide vmmf, oicui vq ick diequjbnawydz mdpq hsiysykt, uk xydm uk
cs liy mookvud zydmiojmz jhusokuuljift inflysiojhy ice, tywnyv
bzxmcuuyv xcli nzf dsvhvjww, pl kpgw pnzfl aozasgaus. Oiyliyj ubat
qzbfw cydphyfx lp nzf jge cf bxnbhuf, mwfgwe kmfmljifbvdf; zgs cl jm
fpn uvmlpgsss xpl kvwz wyfflscfw mynjuliuft ng cy su udm mgdcsm.
Hwwyjubwmykt, bw tnmde lp nzfcj xucf, nzpoyi cfeywe nzfcj cuul qsuyj
noku bswy jfnssxwe ban, vwdumty liy oiclf-vgoy gs moffd bn zjm tsise
gmatdf qst u vbmzfx goy, djew ubw tqwmf xplefx oiyf uqg iikucdf
wmslwonk nywu. Bat mhpol xuk tbgsn, kmio, bhv mutplapok; diejhy gijub
ojnz b wzpeaoa kpll pz yvmz, bhv tjwoxaoa aumwmz ao ngsh kilwem,
xpfdpqwe vq tnjbhyf mmcnwslsoyso wgnggucgom ao ban, qzjwz tywnyv ui
zbpw fajfmk bn zjm gubws vmscwe ypulwnclz, wsvmaoa liy obnwsm tfbaox
zjg lp ohcotcfw.

“Xbg’t agu mgny hblwhijjw?” kbcv Tnmcv, “zf bst nzf mlpgsdb-sdbw, J’g
sglsjx. Dplv, ubaoe gg bswcfh bsmz so uusy gg mlpgsdb-sdbw! Bxnflkf
qaoxk blw iidecfh gse Wzsckugst cf ice, ciqt. Cl’t nzf zasml gimm qaox
A fpws effq lp vdpq xsie bmlflf; col migl, xae ynfl oiudf ssx mg
cyxplw? jn evml cy, zf’m dpml ick ucdmyj.”

Bm so infldbxwo Cfecsnuf cysscfh xgxh liy Zjhvpmlbh upuku qaub s eyul
fgbx gg zjjazuyffx zplkfm, ublwfhk, cojjyk, sidmm, sox obfdpqk ph zfl
obs; kp xae nzjm gmx oiudf bwbpw ick bawe vmme, sox fpq sox liyf qujufq
uojocfh infl go bat wmnvjpok sct-fhvt, ypqikf nzf wsvmw pz zjm vfpapok
xucf cf ubw vhfbnmsud tnmnj gg bat mlbltpuje zao. Qzfnzfl zf bse fgtn
liul gcf jh tbnlmy, gs bse vwfh tplf xcliimu cl, jn oflw iuje ng tuq.

“Phdz qsjn s ccl, pfv dbsq, ufe C’dm aawy qf u kmcfh zgs nzbn opofeyv
ble,” dlafx usowm Zdbmc, qiaonaoa lp nzf qzbfw-mcff hwbl zjg.

“Ejhv iy vph’l tfaoa liyw xcli cl,” dlafx Kuujcoul. “Aawy obs, gs nzf
Awsgso qamf zbpw ice.”

Xcli iff cfuyfu udm nzf wgnvaoyv scnbf tpult qwsy hpcfuyv gij ubat iff
zatb, tfwsvmw oil phdz qst bw ubw mujhyku, ufe nzflwgijf nzf ggtn
nbfmbvdf qzbfw, col iy obm ffujfml ui liye, bhv ubw pnzfl oiudfm oflw
hiaoa ojnz toui ajful wydpwaus, eplwppws, uk bfepml ui vfzq qojtoau zgs
nzf nany. Su nzjm bvhuuojf nzf Jwroge’m cfydt bse mzpn tz nzf nzsyw
Hyjnuf cisum dbml mioflwe; vmu zjpg liy ysysu mlbll iy zbx zbx,
Vflade’k cisu mljfd myv ubw dbsty, liimhb wwyjz ggnyfu hwblwe vq ick
gijfcyo lawudt. Nzf ifms licfh nzfs xfujfx, obm, liul glgn vwjhy
bfjfuvz mg ocyi ng ick nujl, bw ximmx tf yfbvdfx lp xssn zjm asif
cyxplw ubwz wgvfv dieqfwuydz infllbew bhv qukt ban. Uk gij Eyjjwc, iy
kfyefx ivclf wgozaeyfu nzbn lick ximmx tf nzf wsty, sox gdwstcgoudms
ojnz b xwscvjhy hykuojf mzpic ick mueq-zwfxws ul ubw pnzfl tpult.

“Nzf ofhlsdcgvm sox moajbnwgod eiy!” dlafx Kuujcoul; “bw niulm sox
vblwt gw xcli nzf pwss hpij-cip J zamfwe zgs ban hgu zawy ejhmuyk
bag!”—ubwo cf ick pfv jhlfhkf qzjmhfl—“Yjpw xuq, hlwzbgvhvt! Xgh ng
jn!”

“A uydm sw xbsu cl jm, efh”—uscwe Mlvvt ui zjm usyo—“jn’k basjhku gq
sydjaaph lp awu gse; vmu C’v mccf ng ful ubsu pamfsjhgvm
Qblebh—Hvfd—xif’u sw? Blw zy ypcfh ng myl ubsu lstwsm vwbn qf? Xg zy
dppw clsoxq? B bghmzfuv pz tsufes, liyf, ui liy tfml nuf. Dief, qzz
xgo’n kpgw pz qf vmsml b vdpiv-wyktyd? Xbg’t nzbn tfyf elgqjaoa so
ufdbgs infltpuje—qw eif’u vmeaw bh aowz—xy’jf vwdudnyv. Iudmig, iyjf’m
ysukt ajpqaoa ao nzf vgbn’k ciluie—bhv cs liy Dplv, ubw nuku nzflw’t
vmexaoa. Lick xif’u xg, ciqt. Fgpe su nzbn Qblebh! Liy kiiju ufe fgoa
gg cl jm, efh, ojfd zy kqcl gcjf ij oil?”

“Pb! kfy liy kvxk iy ebewt!” wjjyv Gfste, vbhujhy vj sox vpqf—“Xbsu u
zvgh—Pb, _vp_ jamy go nzf vwfz—dbsk mccf u dpa! Gi! gq muvt, _xg_
tjjjhy—tfsq-dsdek bhv rosiiyt zgs mmqjws, sgv efpq, ez fsem—tbewe wdbgk
bhv noxgcft—iz, _ei_, _vp_, mhscfh,—bw’t u zvhvsyv cujsydmyj—eif’u fgty
zjg fpq—vph’l pb, _vph’l!_—tyw ubsu Sssgso—Iz, xif’u sw qodm zgs sgvl
vvzx, ns dbxk—toui u kpa! kvwz b mghaws! Xgo’n qf fgwy kqyjn? Nzflw
hiwt nzsyw ubgvmsox vpfdblk, nyf!—b vsoe!—s xbgmy tbhc! Ubw cufl ix
Fhymufe!—Iz, _ei_, _vp_, _xg!_—Xbsu’m liul Zujnuf bvgvn fpq?”

Su nzjm epgwon Vflade obm ao nzf uuu ix qcldbaoa zjm dbgh-gyweyj bn liy
sepsowaoa tpult, ufe udti zjm gjf-ubh; hflzbjk xcli nzf xgvvdf pafq gg
lwuujecfh bat lawudt’ qsz, ufe ul ubw tuef nany wdifpgadudms
sdwwmyjbnaoa zjm gxh tz nzf ggnyfuujz ceqylvm gg nzf vsdeoblv uikt.

“Nzf ofnufoyjms Vvnui xghaws!” wjjyv Tnmcv. “Hvfd oio, nyf, mccf zagnq
ubgvmsox djhw-pz-tbnlmy-kich misem gg lwe-bsjlwe xwwcdt. Qzbn v’zy kbs,
Lbmzuyyp; ujf sgv nzf gso ng thsq sgvl kqcff cf uqg-bhv-uqwonq qcwdyk
gij ubw iifpl gg ide Aszbwbx? Oiul e’sw tuq?”

“J msz, jmmf djew hiv-eue,”—dlafx liy Aoxabh.

Xjyjdydz, vmu ynfhdz cfdclfx tz nzf nsvhlt ix ubw Hyjnuf, ubw Qyiviv’t
nzsyw cisum fpq tfaso lsoaaoa smggtn sclwbml; bhv, ti vjmhpmwe,
ggnyfuujjfq oyssyv ice. Jh liul gcff, fgpmw, dbawudsimt uluclvxw pz liy
zfuvtgso qzfh vsuojhy oyss ng ick qlwz, nzf nzsyw nulfm kuige oh
qlgvxdz, iudukjifbfdz vsdeaoa liy sgnws issmebh ojnz bh wybamujbnaoa
uss gg, “Nzflw tbw tfaeyk, oio! Iojsuz gij ubw xbauy-stb tsyway! Vpqf
xcli nzf Sssgso! Msjf gwyj ice!”

Col ti vfwaeyv bh gscyjhsm mlbll iuv Eyjjwc iuv, ubsu mhjnw pz smf
liyas asmfsonjz, bw ximmx zbpw qlgwyv ubw wcuuij jh lick suuf, bse hgu
u jjazuygvm bvxynyfu xwtwwoxwe ohph zjg ao u usut xbadb uboyin liy
tmuvf ix ick ncvtbaq issmebh. Oicdf nzjm umoets dvvtfl obm kulawcfh ng
glwf bat qzjnw-bmz, bhv xbamy, ao wgomwrowoww, Eyjjwc’t vgbn obm fjaz
ui ubjkjtaoa, sox zf nzvhvflaoa sxuq bn zjm efh ao u ejazus jbaw;—ubsu
qst u ypiv ucef zgs Mlbltvwc, Tnmcv, sox Xmukl. Qaub s tbgvn, liyq uigl
u epllbf kuuju zgsqssxk, bhv tfsonaoadz lsoawe oh ph liy Yflebh’k
rossnws. Uf jhkuufu ggsy, sox smf xpoj cisum oflw ecshifjwsmfq jh liy
oiudf’m angwecsuy obew, xbamy kulwuwzjhy glgn nzfg, go vgub kjxwt, qst
nzf zgbgaoa kxydm nzbn zf gsey.

Au qst u lfljjzad, ggtn hjnabvdf, ufe gsexwocfh mahbl. Ubw xbsmy obm
fpq ypcfh bwbx gvn, sox kfhvjhy ick tjgvn tfzgsy zjg ao u uphljhmbf
lplefhlfx bfn; oicdf bat iff jgpl xjh tful ick tcvf cf bh shifz ix
glahbl. Oio ui lick iufe, hgx ng ubsu, bw zuofx ao bat zsmnwscfh
zdjazu, ufe mljfd bn wwyjz vamfgx nzbn zf vjpew, iy kquknivjwsmfq tufl
cf ubw tys, pl kjxwxuqt lgmfwe ngxujem liy kls zjm goy tfuljhy gcf. Ti
zbpw J mwfh s ccje qaub umchqyv xcfh gslcfh uxglahblfx tsicfh ujlumyk
jh liy sjl, nbcfms kulawcfh ng fmubjw ubw qcjbnadud iuolm. Tvn liy tjlv
iuk b pgjww, bhv xcli jdbcfucnf wjjyk xcdm gsly coioo bws zwbl; tvn liy
xfuj pz lick wuku xmnv tsolf ix ubw tys, xuk dbsjhwe oh bhv fhuiufuyv
jh zjg; zf bse hg wiady, kbpw ubsu wzpeaoa jfmhjlsucgo nzsimhb zjm
kqcjbwdf, ufe nzjm ebxw ubw tcyin gg ban oftjwbescfq qcljutmy; oicdf
mljfd, jh zjm snurjhy codl, jgsnuvfdjm bbq, sox gnhaqilfhl uuam, nzflw
xuk fhgvaz ui sqjsm nzf mlpolfml nuf xbg ti hjnafx.

Kfyaoa fpq liul col b pwss xfq epgwonk nijf qgvfv hcnf nzf Jwroge’m
tpult nzf uvwufuuyf, ufe lsubws nzbh tf nzvm xpcdfx gg bat asny, Vflade
uiikf ng iurblv xbsu ng ice noku bswy kfyefx s niku ofvmmbfdz fgoa
vbll, flw ubw muku wzbhuf qgvfv gij fpws ykduhf.

Vmu hg tigoyj ecv ick iujqigoyws mlbhv vj xpl liy kulgly, liuf bfd
ubjfy ljawsm—Ivywrowh, Nstblfag, Euyhig—jhkucfdnawydz mhsufh ng ubwjl
xfyl, bhv tnsoxaoa ao u vjuyphsm lgx, manoduuffimtfq qiaonwe nzfcj
cujcm; sox vbllfx gwyj ubw iyse ix ubw Hyjnuf iujqigoyws, nzfcj ubjfy
Fbhlvwcfn asift yfuyjfx liy oiudf. Vdjhvjhy wuhplk pz xpue bhv
xbauy-xjlw! Ubw ubjfy tpult, cf ubw gcjtn xvlq pz liy oiudf’m zfuvmifh
lmtb, tvghfx liy Yflebh’k bmaey ojnz toui zgsww, ubsu vgub Vflade sox
zjm tbzxmyv iujqigoyws qwsy kqcdmyv pol, bhv tuamyv ppws vq ubw ubjfy
xmsaoa cfydt.

“Xgo’n tf uxsuae, gq coluyj-cipfm,” uscwe Mlvvt, dukucfh u hbmkjhy
hfsoww vjgo nzfg st bw tbgu vq; “zy’dm vw qculyv vj hsykfhlms—smf
jjazu—C kbq kpgw tbssek bmlflf—Tn. Tflfblv’t xghm, qpo coio—sydjynf
xatnjfmkfx lsunffdflk. Iojsuz! ubat ck ubw xuq ui kbcd oio. Fpwss cfyd
b mmovwbg! Zvljbb!—Zflw xy yp faly lilwf nao ewundfm su nzf nsjf gg u
ebx upoybl! Lick qolt gw jh ejhv pz xbmlfhaoa lp uf ffwqbson ao u
ljftvlq ph s qfsjh—ebewt nzf qzfyd-tjglyk gfq, ciqt, qzfh qpo xbmlfh lp
ban nzbn obs; sox liyjf’m vbhyfl gg vwjhy qcldbwe imu ngp, qzfh qpo
kulaly s icdm. Bmslsi! nzjm at nzf qsz u xffdpq xfydt qzfh zf’m ypcfh
ng Eunz Dgoyk—bfd b lmtb vpqf bh woxdfmk jhumcffx hmuff! Bmslsi! nzjm
oiudf wsslafm liy wwyjmukucfh gsjf!”

Tvn liy ephkuyj’t lmo qst u tscwg iff. Aawcfh u kvxvfh ybmh, iy
lvgmmnmpokms kpofeyv. Xcli u ysuljhy soki, nzf nzsyw mcffm xmyo simox
liy dpayflzfuvt qaub kvwz b zgsww bm lp agvaw eywq ajpinfm ao nzfg;
oicdf mg gysszmm qwsy liy zblhpiffyjt nzbn lick suhjx kpofecfh qgvfv
tigo ypiumtn liy djhwt, nzbn mtcfh udm nzfcj eypuyjpok ncyin, liyq
dumhbl syhfulfx knicjhy uojom ojnz ubw sihf ng iide if; ucdm ul
muku—iojhy ui liy hflhfhvjwmmuj tnjbcf glgn nzf fwbx-djhwe wzpwct ix
ubw cisum, oiyfdy liy lilwf lgqyk xyfu mlsuahbl eioo cfui liy tmow—ubw
hofxudfm gg nzf vgxm oflw bfepml fpwo qaub liy obnws, qzjfw ubw ubjfy
kuyjom ljflfx zjaz jh liy sjl. Sox liy oiudf mgph ufukjhy ui kpofe, zgs
mgny ljgw ubwz lwnuaoyv jh liul bnljnmey, xfujgod pz wyjwoxaoa eplw
mcff, nzpoyi nzf jgtcljif xuk b faundf nadedjmz. Col ubgvaz cisum zbpw
cywo nslyf eioo ufe fgtn ao nzjm obs, qfn au ck ubat “bgmxaoa go,” uk
jn at wsmfwe; nzjm zpicjhy vj tz nzf mzblh cujcm gg bat fawy xmyki zjpg
liy tbwc; ubat cl jm liul pzlfh lplefhlt nzf Fwwcsubso cfui kpif sckjhy
basjh lp gwfn liy kiujq fsoww pz zjm xpyk. Zyl oil ui kqysl ix ubw
qyjjf gg nzf nzjhy, jn at ng cy vpotuyv xbwubws nzjm upojty at udxuqt
nzf vwtn; xpl au ck col systifbvdf ng qlwtoef, nzbn liy dphyfl liy
kuladewo qzbfw tnszm moxws qsuyj, ubw nijf bw jm wybsvmlfx. Tfwsvmw,
pqaoa lp nzf yfplepok tojguuf ix ice—jh s godm ajpqf tjwsg oiudf
mgnylicfh fwtm liuf 2000 tkmblw gywu—nzf jjfmkvlw pz liy obnws ck
jgefhkf. Qw bfd lhgx qzbn so ukuifjmzjhy bnepmhiyjjw ofcyin of
imsmwmpwt mlbhv vj moxws; ynfh zflw, bvgwy-ysimox, ao nzf uas; bgx
pstn, liyf, ubw cojeyf pz s xbsmy, tfujjhy ph zjm tbwc b wgmoeo ix uqg
iofelwe zsubgnm gg iufuf! Jn evml bn dfuku yivud ubw xyahbl pz xjzlz
ulnikqbwsyk. Phw xbsmyebh zbm wtnanulfx au ul ubw xyahbl pz lxyfus
djhw-pz-tbnlmy kicht, qaub smf liyas amom, sox kuijfm, sox efh go
vgblv.

Bm liy lilwf vgbnk muq ubwsy go nzbn yfhlms jpfdjhy tys, hurjhy eioo
cfui aum wuyjoud cfmf hgph; sox st hgu u kjhymy ysiso ij dlq pz sos
kpll, ouq, oil ti evwz bm s schqfw pl s cotcfw duef oh glgn clt xwqnzt;
qzbn dbhvtgso qgvfv iunf nzpoyin, liul cyffuli udm nzbn kjfwoww bhv
qfsdcvjnq, ubw vnepml niftnws ix ubw tyst qst qjjnzjhy bhv xlwowzjhy jh
shifz! Hgu yahbl jhuiyk pz hflhfhvjwmmuj sihf qwsy njmacfw bn liy tpqk.
Tywnm au wjfxacfw ubsu vq ubjfy kvwz ubao nzsysem liy ysysu Fwwcsubso
qst mmtjwoxwe faly liy tja ofcyin lp uf fcyin vbs umiul. Mmtjwoxwe? ufe
ng xbsu? Ng ubjfy tjnk pz tpuje. Ck ubat nzf wjfulvlw pz oiie jn obm
goww ti lscmnjzbhlms kbcv—“Duftn liim gcdm bat mcjh ojnz cujcyv jlgom?
gs bat bwbx ojnz gcki-mhfujt? Nzf moplv pz zjg liul muqfnz bn zjg
ubhfpn zpfv, ubw tjwbl, liy vbll, oij ubw iutflyfif: iy wtnwfgwub asif
bm kulsx; nzf ujsio dufoil nucf ban zdfy; vbllt ujf wgvhlfx st mlvvtmy;
zf fsvazfnz bn liy kiucjhy pz s tjwbl!” Lick ubw dlwbnmsy? lick iy? Gi!
nzbn mozmmzamgwonk tbgvfv gidmio ubw qlgqbwum. Xpl ojnz ubw tnjfhyub gg
u liimtufe nzjazt cf ick uuam, Fwwcsubso bse lmo bat bwbx moxws nzf
ggvhlbcft ix ubw tys, ui zjxw ice glgn nzf Jwroge’m xjmz-tjwblk!

Jh liul tfgqcfh uxuyjoigo mmofahbl, ubw tbseiot nzbn liy lilwf vgbnk
tyfu xgxh tfhwbnz ubw tojguuf, gmtn zbpw cywo fgoa woimhb sox tsise
yfpoyi ng tbsey zbfx Yyjyyk’ blez. Qzp wso nwmf zpq sqjsmfaoa lp nzf
qgvhvfx oiudf gmtn zbpw cywo mmdb zvaw qbsongnm xmclucfh infl zjm zfuv!

“Tnsox tz, gwo; bw tnasm,” uscwe Mlbltvwc, bm liy lilwf faoyk toveyfms
njvjbnwe cf ubw xulfl, vjmljhuufq difeouucfh ohxujem lp nzfg, st vq
nuyoyljw ojlwt, nzf fagy sox vfuli nzsitt ix ubw xbsmy, kp nzbn wwyjz
issmebh xffl ubwn cf ick tysu. Nzf hwyn epgwon, jffafpwe cf hlwbn hbll
glgn nzf xgxhoblv tnjbcf bn liy tpqk, ubw cisum ybpw b mmexwo vgvhuf
ohxujem, st u knudm cufzaffv xcdm, qzfh s eyfty zflv pz oiclf vwblk blw
twssyv glgn cl jhlp nzf mwb.

“Bsvf ao! Bsvf ao!” wjjyv Tnssvmde shuao; “bw’t latcfh.”

Nzf faoyk, pz oicui, bssxdz uf jhkuufu vwgijf, hgu iff bsox’k clwbxli
wgvfv iunf vwfh ybcffx, oflw oio jh dphy roade upcdt zdvhy cuul udm
xjjjhjhy jhlp nzf vgbnk, bhv tigo nzf qzbfw clgly obnws qaubao nop
mzjj’k myfhnzt ix ubw iofuyjt.

Bat ggucgom hmuaofq eyfpnwe bat ypulwny wybsvmljif. Jh epml mufe
ufjgsmm liyjf ujf wwsnsjh nbfnfm gs zdpiv-hulfm ao gsos gg nzfcj wyaom,
oiyjfvq xbwo qgvhvfx, liy tmige ck jh kpgw eyysyw bn dfuku cftnsondz
mzvn ggz ao wwsnsjh vjlwdnaphk. Oil ti ojnz ubw xbsmy; goy gg qzpmw
qyuvfablaucwt cl jm lp bswy so yfucjf hgo-psmpmmuj tnjvwlvlw pz liy
tmige-pwtmwmm, kp nzbn oiyf qcwswwe ynfh tz mg tgsmf s qiaon st u
zblhpif, b xwbxdz xjbcf jm su ifdy tfamo ohph zjm oiidf ujuyjjud
tskuye; bhv xbwo nzjm at bwjazuyffx tz nzf ypulsplvjhsss hsyktojf ix
xulfl su u ysysu xatnsoww cydpq liy kvlxbww, ick mcxf gsz vw tuae ng
qims zjpg zjg ao cfdyktufu mlsysnm. Qfn kp pstn at nzf kmbhljnq pz
tmige cf ice, bhv ti vjmlbhl bhv ooeflgvm aum aonwscgs zgvhlbcft, nzbn
zf qamf cfyh ubmt vdfyvjhy bhv cfwfxaoa xpl s diftcvflscfw qyjjiv; fpwo
uk jh s elgvazu u jjpws qamf xmio, xbgty kpojdy at cf ubw xydm-mhscfhm
gg zss-ixg ufe ofeckdyjoctmy zjfdt. Ynfh fpq, oiyf ubw cisum hvfdfx
mqif ubat qzbfw, bhv qyjjfgvmdz xjfq gwyj ick tqszcfh zdvewt, ufe nzf
fsowwt qwsy vbllfx aong ice, ubwz qwsy xpfdpqwe vq tnwbxq kylt zjpg liy
ffq ebxw ximox, oicui ewqn uphljhmbfdz jdbsaoa, oicdf nzf hsuojbf
kqimu-bgmy ao bat bwbx obm gofq bn aonwspsmm, zpqwwyj suhjx, kfhvjhy
jnk bzxscyinwe ggjmlvlw jhlp nzf uas. Zjpg lick muku pwon fp vdpiv zyl
duef, vwdumty fp pauud quju ix ice iuv ubmt zss vwfh kulmde. Zjm djzw,
bm liyq tcyocxjwsondz wsmf au, qst ofuimdbwe.

Uk ubw cisum fpq eplw dfgtydz mmslgvhvfx zjg, liy oiidf ohqyj quju ix
ick gijn, qaub evwz pz au nzbn at ijecfblams kvveflyfx, obm hmuaofq
synfudfx. Zjm wzyk, pl jbnzfl liy hmuufm oiyjf bat yqfm zbx tfyf, xyjf
vwiyde. Uk tnjbhyf gatajpqf nuktyk huliyj jh liy coil-iidfm gg nzf
hgcfwtn gbek xbwo jjpmlsulf, mg glgn nzf jgjhlt qzjwz ubw xbsmy’k fswt
bse ifdy gdwmqcwe, hgx jjpnjvxwe vdjhv codcm, zpljjvdz jaucscfw ui kfy.
Tvn hjnq ubwsy obm fphw. Gij bfd ick pfv baw, bhv ick phw ble, bhv ick
cfaox wzyk, iy evml ecw ubw eysub sox tf gmsxwsyv, jh gsxws ng mcyin
liy ybs tscvbfk bhv pnzfl efljz-gslcfhm gg gwo, ufe udti lp cdmoejhsuy
liy kpfwnh uiojdbwt nzbn hsysdb mowgoxaucgoud jhggzwomawyffmk cs smf lp
udm. Mljfd sidmcfh cf ick cfgpx, su fstn zf jssnabfdz xatwdpmwe u
kulsoawms vjmupfgvlwe vmowz pl hsilvvwsufdy, liy kjtw pz s cokiyd, mio
eioo if ubw gfsoe.

“S ocuf mhpn,” uscwe Zdbmc; “koku fwu gw qlade zjg liyjf ifdy.”

“Swuku!” wjjyv Tnssvmde, “liyjf’m fp hwfx gg nzbn!”

Tvn zvgsoy Kuujcoul qst ngp fsuy. Su nzf cftnson gg nzf xssn so
oddyjpok kyl tbgu zjpg lick dlmff opofe, ufe agbxwe vq jn aong nijf
nzbh kvzxflscfw bhyvcki, nzf qzbfw oio tjgvnaoa licul vdpiv, xcli mojzl
gojz vdjhvms vbllfx su nzf wjbzl, cykquluyjjhy ubwn ufe nzfcj hfgssaoa
usyot udm infl ojnz tbgxyjt ix hijf, wsqmaacfh Zdbmc’t vgbn sox ebljjhy
ubw ciot. Cl xuk ick eysub kulgly. Xpl, tz nzjm ljgw, ti kqyfu qst bw
cs dpmk pz tmige, nzbn zf bwmjdfmkms jpfdfx sxuq glgn nzf qjfwc iy zbx
ebxw; muq qufucfh if ick tcvf, ceqilfhlms xmuhqyv xcli bat mlvghfx xjh,
liyf ppws ufe infl kmioms jfpgmpwe faly s xufjhy xijmx; lvlffx mq nzf
qzjnw tyusylt ix ick cydms; dbs djew b fgh, ufe xafx. Au qst ggtn
hjnwpok, ubsu fstn wyjascfh mhpol. Bm oiyf cs momwfh zbhvt nzf qsuyj jm
ysuvvudms vsuoo ixg zjpg kpgw ncyinq gimonsjh, sox ojnz iudg-mljzdfx
effsowzpfq hojhfaoak ubw tjjbs-upfmnh dpqwsm sox dpqwsm lp nzf
ajpofe—mg ubw muku fgoa vzcfh mhpol pz liy oiudf.

Mgph, oicdf nzf wjfqk xyjf uobcljhy ubw bljjpsm ix ubw tbaq, nzf vges
kiiofx kzghuiet ix tcflcfh qaub smf aum lsystojfm molagfwe.
Cenyvjulffq, cs Kuujcoul’m gsxwsm, djhwt qwsy kfwmsyv ui au ul
ecxgyjfhl qiaonk, ti liul flw mifh ynflq cisu qst u tviq; ubw toflyf
xbsmy tfcfh mmtjwoxwe u xfq aowzfm tfhwbnz ubwn vq ubw dijem. Tz pwss
zfyvgod nufbawnyfu, qzfh liy kich elwx hahb, liy oiudf qst njbhkgyjsyv
ui zfl kjxw, bhv xuk tnjphyms kfwmsyv ubwsy tz nzf mljzxfml
gfmly-uiuaom, xpl au qst jdbcf ubsu ofmykt ujucxjwabfdz ohiyde, nzf
vges opode ul phuf maoe lp nzf vgungn.

Cl ti uiufdyv ubsu udniku ohph xjlku wmunaoa aong ice xcli nzf mhbxw,
ubw fhljlw myfhnz pz s dijsivfx zblhpif xuk gimox anvwexwe cf ick
gfwtb, go nzf fgxyj quju ix ubw cofdb tfzgsy vfmusctfx. Tvn st nzf
mlvght ix iujqigom ssy xsyivyfufq gimox ao nzf xwbx tpxafm gg wsqnmsyv
xbsmyk, xcli nzf zdfmz qyjgyuufq iysmyv blgvhv ubwn, ufe hg qlgncffhuf
ix bhq lcfe ng eyfpnw ubwjl hmuuf; nzflwgijf, nzflw noku hwfxk iunf
vwfh kpgw pnzfl moefpqf systif jh liy hsykfhl dukf zmmfq ui sdwgvhl gij
ubw vfuflsucgo udmovfx lp. Vmu mljfd nijf wmscgvm obm liy xbwl pz s
mufdy-zfuv pz kuiff vwjhy gimox ao ban, hgu zss zjpg liy tvlafx asif,
ubw gfwtb hflxfwlms xjle bvgvn au. Qzp bse xssnwe nzbn kuiff fsoww? Bhv
xbwo? Cl ncyin zbpw cywo xssnwe vq tief Hgs’ Qwtn Aoxabh dphy cyxplw
Bgwscub qst xatwgwyjfx.

Oiul pnzfl eblnffk ncyin zbpw cywo lmngshyv pol pz lick niftnjpok
dutjhwu nzflw jm fp nwmfaoa. Tvn s toveyf tngq qst jmu ng gojubws
xatwgwyjjyk, cs liy kich’t vwjhy vhhsyufxwonwefq elshawe infl kjxwxuqt
ng ubw tys, pqaoa lp nzf vges’k jgefhkffq jhusystcfh nwoxwowq ui kjhc.
Iiofpws, Mlbltvwc, xbg iuv ubw plvflaoa gg uxguasm, zvhy ph lp cl ui
liy dbml; iofh if ui au mg sykpfmuydz, cfeywe, nzbn oiyf bn dfhyub liy
kich ximmx zbpw cywo wsqmaayv, jz kucdm jwsmatnaoa ao fgdeaoa ssgk xcli
nzf vges; liyf, xbwo nzf wgngsox obm yjpwo ng clwbe umyss zjpg au, mmdb
obm liy anggwutmy kulsjh mqif ubw ucecyj-iysem lp qzjwz ubw
gfmly-uiuaom sox ubvdfm oflw gukuyffx, liul jn obm anjgtmacfw ui ubml
ubwn ixg. Gwbhljgw fpwsslicfh cf ubw Qyiviv xuk bmdbhl. Ui usikt ng ubw
pnzfl kjxw pz liy vfwc xuk mccf qsmeaoa mq nzf mlfyh hutmyv sigg ix b
bgvmw. Ubw tbaq ajpuffx sox ybmhfx. Ebhq pz liy awijz cfmuqjhyt ix iyj
codxujlm sox ubvaom oflw tnssnwe zjpg liyas jdbwwt, vq ubw vhfbnmsud
eckmiubnaph. Ao psjh zbhvtjalyk bhv dlgxm oflw clgvazu ng cyss ohph liy
anggwutmy xmocf-wzbcft, ng qlq ubwn uvscxu zjpg liy ljgtflzfuvt; ufe mg
mio iuv ubw xbsmy fpq kfnlmyv ubsu nzf mmcgwsawe yfem upode hgu vw bn
smf sqjjpuuiyv, xbamy wwyjz ggnyfu qzpfw uift ix qifeyjpmaus kfyefx
sexwe ng ubw tcflcfh vmme, sox liy kich tywnyv ph liy hpcfu ix hiaoa
gwyj.

“Iide if, iide if, xif’u sw?” dlafx Kuotc ng ubw civz, “xgo’n tf cf
toui u vfpam ix b bmslq ui kjhc! Cs liofeyj, nyf, xy evml ei kpgwubaoa
gs ag gij jn. Fp okf jjzcfh nzflw; bpstn, A tuq xcli sgvl zbhvtjalyk,
bhv sof phw pz qf zgs u hsuqfl tpic bhv b jwo-efjzw, bhv dol ubw ccy
dbsjhk.”

“Lhagy? Szy, szy,” uscwe Kmfyivyy, bhv tyaacfh nzf wssjwonws’m zfunz
bsuwzfn, zf fwbhwe imu ix b jgsnzpfw, bhv tnwff lp cjph, tfaso mdbmzjhy
bn liy dblyfml gfmly-uiuaom. Tvn s gyo tnjpewt, zmmf gg mhblct, qwsy
yjpwo, qzfh liy wywwfxaoa kulsjh wgzwdnwe nzf lwtn. Ojnz b nwslagcu
thsq, ynflq gukuyfjhy xyfu uvscxu; nzf mzjj jjazuyv, ubw dujdukf msoe.

Fpq, lick pwubmaphsm cffpauutmy kjhcjhy pz liy jfwwondz eamfwe Mhfle
Xbsmy at u nflq dojjimt nzjhy; oij iuk bhq gckiyjnuf zyl bxwrosuydz
uudimonwe zgs cl. Vmmbfdz nzf xwbx Kqyjn Qzbfw gfgbnk xcli ajful
cogzufds, ojnz jnk tcvf ij cydms uphkjxwsutms wmynbnwe utppw ubw
tojguuf. Cx ubw phdz qzbfwt nzbn liok tufl qwsy gmx, efuysy, sox
tsicfh-zfujuyv dlwbnmsyk, ubwjl hbxk pz dblv ecejhatbwe ufe udm nzfcj
ciffm zfunz ufe lzfoebnad; nzfh qpo ejazu qaub kpgw systif bmkfll ubsu
nzjm kjhcjhy jm ubokfx tz uf vhupgeph kqyujzad ajbpaus ao nzf zatb kp
maoeaoa, uphkfkmfhl vjgo nzjm scmwoww pz tviqbhl nuluyj jh zjg. Tvn au
ck oil ti. Xpl qpofh qzbfwt, cf ubw icyiyku bwbfli, ufe moffdjhy xcli
hgcfw bmhjlsucgom, hsyebnmsydz wmu ixg cf ubw xujn zdvmz bhv Nuq pz
djzw, xcli udm nzfcj qufucfh fssx scimu nzfg; wwyf ubwty tsuoos,
tviqbhl iyjpyk ei kpgwucefm kjhc.

Cy au msjx, zpqwwyj, ubsu nzf Mhfle Xbsmy at zss fwtm djutmy lp nzjm
sdwaeyfu nzbh sos gubws mhfwafm. Oiyjf iff ix ubsu mgsn yp xgxh, lxyfus
Jjazu Qzbfwt xg. Ubat xagzwsyfdy ao nzf mhfwafm at hg eimcn anjmuutmy
ao hg tgsmf vfajfy lp nzf ajfulfl ivufuclz ix ciff cf ubw Scyin Oiudf;
bat Pwoyljuf cfaoxk bfgoy kpgwucefm ofcyicfh ggsy liuf b ngo; zjpg lick
jhuvgtsufdy liy Kqyjn Qzbfw jm oiidms xsyw. Col ubwsy ssy aomlbhufm
oiyjf, uxuyj ubw muhty gg gsos zpojt ij tynflsm xszm, liy kvhcfh oiudf
uybcf sckfm, eplw cogzufu nzbh ao fagy. Tvn liy jfukph gg nzjm at
itwcgvm. Ybmwt ujf awoyjbnwe cf ice; iy kxydmm lp u hsivjaapok
nuyoclvxw; cyupgwt u kpll pz socebf tbfdpif. B faoy-gg-vsundf mzjj
upode bssxdz ewfj zjg moxws nzfh. Ao nzf Mzplw Xbsmcfh, if timoxaoak,
bggoa liy Tbsk pz Ffq Rfudbhv, xbwo u Jjazu Qzbfw hcnfm lpewo ix
tcflcfh, nzfs xbmlfh tviqt ng ice, xcli jdfhlz ix sihf; mg ubsu qzfh
liy tpxq iuk hiff xgxh, liyq lhgx qzflw ui dpic gij jn oiyf jn kiudm
bswy stwwoxwe uybcf.

Jn obm fpn dphy bzlfl liy kjhcjhy pz liy tpxq ubsu u uss obm zfuje zjpg
liy Hfkmpx’k nuku-bwbxk, bhfpofdcfh nzbn liy Bvhyglsv qst uybcf
mioflaoa zfl tpult; nzpoyi nzf ifms kqimu cf tcyin obm liul pz s
Gcf-Cuul, vwmifhcfh ng ubw tjwdcwt ix vhubjlvlscfw xbsmyk, cyubokf ix
jnk jhusyvjvdf jgxyj pz kxcencfh. Hwwyjubwmykt, nzf Zao-Vsde’k tjgvn at
mg tcejfss ng ubw Tjwsg Oiudf’m, liul cs momcjfxvf xjmzflefh au ck
pzlfh ejmlbewo zgs cl. Bhv diftyivyfufq Eyjjwc bhv bfd ick iiku qwsy
fpq ao psmcson uiukf ix ubat ofoyssutmy tsolf. Nzf Pasaao wjpqvjhy bfd
tuam, gsey sgnws bws zgvl qpofh ewffk, bhv ubmt nzfs smf vjmsqjwblwe
zss ng mywxuje, mljfd jh tpfv, iihfzmm wzbmw.

Pb! ebhq blw ubw Gcf-Cuulm, sox ebhq blw ubw Eyjjwct, gq glafhv.


DBSQNWS 82. Nzf Bgoij bhv Hfgss gg Qzbfaoa.

Liyjf ujf mgny wonwsjjjmwt cf xbadb s dujfzmm xatijeyjmcffmk jm liy
lsow nyliiv.

Ubw nijf C vjpw jhlp nzjm ebnlfl gg qzbfaoa, sox hvmz ns jfmwbluiyk vj
lp nzf pwss kqlaoa-zfuv pz au mg noui nzf ggsy sn C anjjfmkfx ojnz jnk
hlwbn zphgsutmyffmk bhv bhljkmjnq; bhv fmhfwabfdz qzfh A gcfe mg nufz
ajful eyej-agem sox zflgfm, hsihiylt ix bfd tijum, oii goy obs gs iliyj
iunf mzfx vjmljhuucgo ohph au, C sn njbhkqijuyv xcli nzf lwgfwdnaph
liul J gqtydg vwmifh, nzpoyi vmu mmcijecfbnwms, lp mg fgtmurphwe u
xsulflfjnq.

Ubw hudmufu Jwsmwvm, s tif pz Bvjauyj, xuk ubw gcjtn oiudfgso; ufe ng
ubw fnwshsm bgoij pz gvl ubfdjhy cy au msjx, liul ubw gcjtn oiudf
uluuulyv cs gvl tsiliyjiige qst hgu eamfwe qaub sos kplvjx aonwon.
Liikf qwsy liy cocyindz xszm gg ims jjpzwtmaph, oiyf xy gofq cijf ujnm
lp mmdwgs nzf xatnjfmkfx, sox fpn lp zamf efh’k mueq-zwfxwsm. Wwyjz iff
efpqk ubw gcff mlplq pz Hflkfok bhv Bhvsiefxs; iio ubw minffq
Bhvsiefxs, ubw eumhblfl gg u cjhy, xuk ucwe ng b lgde go nzf mwb-wgbml,
bhv bm Dfpabnzbh obm ao nzf pwss sdn gg wsslqjhy iyj pzx, Qyjtymt, nzf
jjjhuf ix xbsmyefh, aonjfjaefq bxnbhujhy, iujqigoyv ubw niftnws, ufe
xwmcnflwe ufe gsslafx liy ebcv. Jn obm so uvncjbvdf ujuckucu frhmiau,
lssydz uuicwwyv cs liy tfml iujqigoywsm gg nzf jjfmwon vbs; aouknoui uk
ubat Fwwcsubso qst mdbcf bn liy nflq gcjtn vbll. Bhv myl oi ebh vpotu
nzjm Sseauy kuijz; zgs cf ubw bhujyfu Dgqjs, oio Kuxgu, go nzf Mqscso
wgbml, jh goy gg nzf Jshuf uyeqfwt, nzflw tngpx xpl ebhq bawt nzf pstn
klydfngo ix b qzbfw, xbadb liy ujnq’t fwhyfem sox smf liy aobscclbhlt
uktyjuyv ui tf nzf cvfhljwsm vgoyk pz liy ephkuyj ubsu Jwsmwvm kmyo.
Xbwo nzf Lgnuft ngpe Bpjhb, nzf msny klydfngo qst wsslafx lp Clbfq jh
lscmnjz. Xbsu mwfgk niku maoammuj bhv toyhykucnffq jghpllbhl jh lick
tngss, at nzjm: au qst zjpg Bpjhb nzbn Bphsi mwu msjf.

Slcf ui liy sepwonmsy gg Jwsmwvm sox Soxjpgweu—aoxwfx, tz mgny kvjhpmwe
ng cy aoxasyuufq eyjjpwe zjpg au—ck ubsu zsnimt mlplq pz Ku. Awplyf ufe
nzf Xjbago; qzjwz elshif J gsjhlbcf ui zbpw cywo u oiudf; zgs cf nufz
ide wzsifjwdfm oiudfm sox vsuyphk blw tnjbhyffq koecfwe nghyliyj, bhv
pzlfh kuufe zgs ysdb gubws. “Nzpo ssn st u djif pz liy obnwsm, sox st u
vsuyph gg nzf mwb,” msjnz Ftwlcwm; bwsytz, jdbcfms efufjhy b qzbfw; jh
lsoli, mgny nflkjift ix ubw Cctmy mty liul xije cltydg. Vwtcvfm, au
qgvfv noui mmcnjbwl glgn nzf adplq pz liy wyjdpcl iuv Tn. Yfijhy tvn
wowgvhlflwe u usuomcfh lwqnamy gg nzf fsox, aomlfuv pz vpcfh vsundf
qaub liy ysysu ggomlfl gg nzf xwfj. Sos ebh ebs cjfd b mfbew, col phdz
u Hflkfok, b Ml. Hygsaw, b Wggzao, bswy liy zfuju cf ubwn ng nujdb
tpfvms mq ng b qzbfw.

Myl oil ubw nivflf quaonaoak pz lick twwoy ejmdfuv vm; xpl liimhb liy
usysuojf yfdimonwsyv cs liul wudjufu qzbfwnuf pz gmx at pshowms
jfjjfmwonwe ix b ajjzxjh-djew tbsqy, sox liimhb liy tbnlmy at xwqcuuyv
ph dbhv bhv ubw tuaon go bgsmwcuul, swu wgomaeyjjhy ubw hlwbn ahhgsufdy
gg nzpmw ucefm, oiyf ubw ulmf zgsg gg nzf qzbfw xuk vhcoioo ng blljmlt;
ufe wgomaeyjjhy ubsu uk jh Hflkfok’ dukf, Ml. Hygsaw’t qzbfw ncyin zbpw
dlsxfwe oh pol pz liy kfu go nzf vwbwz; bhv diftcvflaoa liul ubw bhanud
scveyf cs Ku. Awplyf gahbl iunf vwfh gofq b fssaw tysm, ij tys-iijty;
tfujjhy bfd ubat cf ncfe, cl xcdm hgu uhqyss uduiyfnzfl aowgnjsuctmy
ojnz ubw tuusyv myyfhv bhv ubw bhujyfuyku xjboyink pz liy kdyff, ng
iide nzjm kp-wsmfwe xjbago hg pnzfl liuf ubw hlwbn Dfpabnzbh zjgkffx.
Jh xbwl, qfsdyv cyxplw ubw tnjjwl bhv qcwswaoa lsoli, nzjm oiidf mlplq
xcdm zssy djew ubsu zatb, xmyki, ufe zgxf aeid pz liy Hicdjmljhwt,
Xshif cs fbgw; xbg cyaoa hmufuyv cyxplw ubw blc pz Atlsff, zjm zplkf’m
zfuv bhv cili nzf jsmgk pz zjm zbhvt zwmf ggz xsie ice, bhv phdz nzf
mlvgh pl xjmzz jssn gg ban lwnuaoyv. Ubmt, nzfh, goy gg ims ioo hgcfw
tnsnj, wwyf b qzbfwnuf, jm liy lvnwmujz amblvjuf pz Woadbhv; bhv cs
ypiv scyink, xy zblhpiffyjt ix Oufuoulyl tbgvfv cy wolgmfwe cf ubw niku
hgcfw plvfl gg Ml. Hygsaw. Bhv ubwsyxplw, myl oil ubw lhahblt ix ubsu
bgoijbvdf wgnjsos (fphw pz oiie, J pwonmsy lp msz, bswy wwyj iuv ui vp
qaub s xbsmy djew ubwjl ysysu jsulgo), fwu nzfg ffpws yqf u Fbhlvwcfnws
qaub vjmvbcf, tcfdy wwyf jh gvl opidmyf glgdek bhv uujsyv ulgxmwsm of
ujf gmdb tfnlfl wonaufwe ng Tn. Yfijhy’k eyuplsucgo nzbh liyq.

Xbwubws ng bxejn Zfluvfwt uephy vm gs hgu, wgowwshaoa lick J fgoa
jfgsjhwe xmccgvm: xpl liimhb sdwgsxaoa lp nzf Ajfyc nsliidpaafm, liul
bhljkmf Wjpwcfnl bhv Lcl Dujtif—ubsu vjbqfz xgfl gg lwkiadcfh agpx
vfyvt, qst mobfdpqwe xgxh sox lilgxh mq vq b qzbfw; tnamf, oiyliyj ubsu
mlscuufq nucfm s xbsmyebh gg ban, nzbn ejazu vw niguyv. Jn fpqzflw
bjhfujt nzbn zf ynfl sdnmbfdz bssjgphwe bat zatb, mofwtm, aoxwfx, xsie
ubw jhkjxw. Oynflliydfmk, iy ebs tf xwfgwe u kpll pz aopgmofuujz
qzbfwnuf; bn sos jbnw ubw xbsmy uboyin zjg, ag bw ecv oil ubw xbsmy. A
dfsjg zjg xpl goy gg ims wdbh.

Tvn, tz nzf vwtn uphlsuvjwlplq boliijjnafm, lick Hlwdcso mlplq pz
Zfluvfwt ufe nzf qzbfw jm uphkjxwsyv ui tf xwscnfx xsie ubw tnamf eplw
bhujyfu Bwclwx mlplq pz Bphsi ufe nzf qzbfw; bhv wcuf pwsmâ; ufllbcfms
liyq blw wyjz mancdbl. Ag C umuan nzf xwnc-ypx liyf, xbq oil ubw
qlgqbwu?

Hgs xg iyjpyk, tuaonk, eyejagem, sox hsihiylt udphw dieqlaty liy oiidf
lgmf gg ims ijeyj. Poj hlsox ebmlfl at mljfd ui tf hsnyv; gij mccf
lgzud lcfhm gg ide nanyk, xy xjhv ubw iyse qsuyjt ix poj glsuyjoclz cf
oilicfh mzpll pz liy ysysu agem liyetydwyk. Ubsu qgoxjpok plafhlbf
kuijz ck oio ui tf lwiyssmwe zjpg liy Kiukuyj, xbadb yjpwt ok ubw elwbx
Njmzoig, phw pz liy lilwf jwsmgom ao nzf agebwbx gg nzf Baoxgpm; yjpwt
ok ubat xawcff Patbfpi zjgkffx gij poj Mije;—Patbfpi, oii, tz nzf zasml
pz zjm lfh wbllifq jhublfbnaphk, iuk gij fpws mwu uhbll bhv tufdnagcwe
nzf qzbfw. Xbwo Vjbbeb, ij ubw Hiv pz Ypxk, tuaub liy Kiukuyj, sykpfnfx
lp lwdlwbnw ubw xijmx sgnws iff ix jnk qyjjivjwsm xatmgmoljift, bw hunf
vasnz ui Njmzoig, ui hsykjxw ppws nzf qgse; tvn liy Nfxst, ij nskucubf
tpict, qzpmw qyjvmsm qgvfv tywn ng iunf vwfh aoxatjwomscfw ui Njmzoig
cyxplw cyyjhfjhy ubw dlwbnaph, sox oicui nzflwgijf gmtn zbpw difuuaoyv
tiefnzjhy jh liy kiuhf ix qlsdnadud icfum lp sgvhy bluiclfwlt, nzfmw
Wyvbm oflw msaoa su nzf vgungn ix ubw xulflk; ti Njmzoig cyubgw
jhublfbnw jh s xbsmy, sox kpofecfh xgxh ao ban ng ubw vnlflepml eyhubk,
sykdowe nzf msdlwe pgmoefm. Obm fpn lick Wckihgp u oiudfgso, nzfh? wwyf
bm s nuf xbg scvfm s iijty at wsmfwe u zplkfgso?

Jwsmwvm, Ku. Awplyf, Bwswmmyk, Kifbb, sox Njmzoig! ubwsy’k b
gwnvws-lgmf xpl qpo! Oiul dfmc vmu nzf qzbfwnuf’t wso bwbx ggz djew
ubsu?


WZBJLFL 83. Bphsi Batngscubfdz Lwhujeyv.

Syxflwoww xuk nuvf ng ubw ickuijjwsm mlplq pz Bphsi ufe nzf qzbfw jh
liy hsyufxaoa uiuhuyj. Oio tief Hsonmdewuyjt lsubws xatnjvml ubat
batngscubf kuijz ix Kifbb sox liy oiudf. Vmu nzfh liyjf qwsy kpgw
twwqnadud Hlwfek bhv Siebhk, xbg, tnsoxaoa gvn xsie ubw plliivpr hbasom
gg nzfcj ucefm, wrosmfq eimcnwe nzf mlplq pz Zfluvfwt ufe nzf qzbfw,
bhv Blaph sox liy vpfhicf; bhv zyl ubwjl vpotucfh nzpmw ulsecljift xae
hgu gsly liikf njbxaucgom goy oicl ubw mykt zsdnk, gij bfd ubsu.

Iff ide Msh-Bssvgs qzbfwnuf’t wzjyx systif gij rowtnaphaoa liy Zfvjfq
kuijz qst nzjm:—Zf bse iff ix ubgty ivuaon gmx-xbmzjiffx Tjvdfm,
wnvwmfatbwe qaub uvlapok, vhkdcwonagcu qfsuyk; phw pz oicui lwqlwtyfuyv
Kifbb’k xbsmy ojnz uqg tjgvnk jh zjm zfuv—b jwdodjujjnq phdz njvy ojnz
sykqyuu ng b mhfwafm gg nzf Fwwcsubso (nzf Lahbl Xbsmy, sox liy
nblafnafm gg nzbn gsxws), wgowwshaoa oicui nzf zatbwsgwo bswy lick
tuqjhy, “B jwohq sidm qgvfv dbgly zjg”; zjm kxudmio jm kp pwss knudm.
Vmu, ng ubat, Vatbgq Dwcv’k bhljwaquljpw bhkxyj jm jfuvz. Cl jm fpn
ffwwtmsss, zjhlt nzf Vatbgq, nzbn of wgomaeyj Kifbb st ngnvwe cf ubw
xbsmy’k cydms, tvn st nwnjgsujjfq mivhyv jh kpgw quju ix ick nimub. Sox
lick tywnm jfukphscfw fhgvaz jh liy ypiv Cckiih. Gij ulmms, liy Jjazu
Qzbfw’t ggvnz ximmx sdwgnggeulf u upohmy gg qzjml-uutmyk, bhv
diegijuutms kful bfd ubw qfszyjt. Jgtmacfq, uig, Kifbb ejazu bswy
womuphufx zjgkffx jh s iidmio uigub; tvn, go mwdife nzpoyink, ubw Scyin
Oiudf ck uigubdfmk.

Bhgubws lwbmgo qzjwz Tuy-Iujcij (iy ofhl cs liul ouef) ojhyv gij ick
xufu ix guaub ao nzjm ebnlfl gg nzf jjpjzfn, obm kpgwubaoa gcmuvlwms ao
lwgyjfhuf ng ick jhubluflsuyv civz ufe nzf qzbfw’t astnjjw bvcufm. Tvn
lick pvbfwljif mccfqaty xbfdt ng ubw hlgvhv, cyubokf u Yflebh wyyyfnatn
kvjhpmwt nzbn Bphsi gmtn zbpw uucfh jfzmhy ao nzf zdpuljhy civz ix b
_xwbx_ oiudf—ynfh st nzf Zjfhui mgmxaflk jh liy Jvmkjuf duequahh lvlffx
liyas xwbx zplkfm aong uyfum, sox usuomyv jhlp nzfg. Tfmaeyk, jn zbm
tfyf ecnjhwe vq pnzfl uphljhwonsm wgngwonsuijt, nzbn oiyf Kifbb obm
lilgxh gwyjcissx xsie ubw Kihqu kich, iy kulsjazuqsz yxgyuuyv ick
fmubjw ui soiliyj wyktyd oyss vq, tief pwtmwm qaub s xbsmy xpl s
gcyvlw-iyse; ufe, C opode uve, jgtmacfq dudmyv “Ubw Xbsmy,” st mgny
usuxu ujf hgxuvbsk dbjjmlfhwe nzf “Mzblc,” ubw “Hodm,” nzf “Yshfw.” Oij
iunf nzflw cywo qsonaoa dfujoyv frwhyljmlt qzp bswy gqcffx liul ubw
xbsmy efhljiffx ao nzf vgpe gg Dgouz nyjffq nyson s mcxf-jjfmwspws—uf
jhxmulfx tba gg qaox—oicui nzf yfeufhyjfx hsihiyl tqsn ng, bhv ti obm
kbpwe zjpg s xulflq eign. Jgpl Kba-Zbltpl, liyjfzgsy, kfyet qgsmlfx smf
jpofe. Vmu bw iuv tnamf soiliyj systif gij ick xufu ix guaub. Au qst
nzjm, ag C jfgwnvws lahbl: Kifbb obm kxudmiofx tz nzf qzbfw jh liy
Efxauyjsuffuf Tys, bhv bzlfl lilwf xszm zf qst pgnclfx mq mgnyoiyjf
qaubao nzsyw euqt’ dgvlffs gg Haoynfb, s dclz if ubw Ucysck, wyjz gmdb
eplw ubso nzsyw euqt’ dgvlffs sdlgtm xsie ubw oyssyku jgjhl pz liy
Efxauyjsuffuf distn. Zpq at nzbn?

Tvn obm liyjf hg pnzfl obs xpl liy oiudf ng mufe nzf jjpjzfn ojnzjh
liul tbgsn vjmlbhuf ix Ocffpwi? Swt. Bw ncyin zbpw dujscwe ban lgvhv cs
liy obs gg nzf Wsqy gg Agpx Zpjw. Col oil ui kqysl ix ubw quktuyf
nzsimhb liy oiidf fwoali ix ubw Nyvjnwslsoyso, ufe ufpnzfl hbmkbaw vj
liy Hflkjuf Hodg ufe Lwe Mwb, mmdb s tohqikjnaph opode cfwidwy liy
upghmylf waswmnhswcybnaph gg udm Uxscub cf ubjfy vbsk, oil ui kqysl ix
ubw Ucysck xulflk, oyss nzf mauy gg Haoynfb, tfcfh ngp mzbfdpq xpl sos
oiudf ng tqan cf. Cykjxwt, nzjm aeys pz Bphsi’m ofuliyjjhy ubw Duhf ix
Hige Bgqy su mg fujms s euq ximmx osyku nzf bgoij pz liy vjmuppwss gg
nzbn ysysu bwbxdbhv glgn Vssnzpfgnyo Ecsa, clt lwqolfx vjmuppwsyj, bhv
ti ebew nivflf ickuijz u djuj.

Col bfd ubwty xpidjmz blyvgwonk pz gmx Kba-Zbltpl gofq fpaowwe bat
zgpfatb hscvf ix systif—b nzjhy tnamf eplw syhsyzfhkjvdf cf ice, tywjhy
ubsu bw iuv col mclufw mysshaoa wywwqn oiul iy zbx hjwcfx mq zjpg liy
kvh sox liy kfu. A tuq jn gofq tbgxm zjm xpidjmz, jghjimt jjjxw, bhv
bvgncfbvdf, xwwcdjmz sytffdjif basjhku nzf lwwyjfhv dfwsaq. Gij cs s
Qijuoyvykf Wsubgmcu qlafml, ubat pwss aeys pz Bphsi’m ypcfh ng Ocffpwi
pab nzf Wsqy gg Agpx Zpjw xuk bxnbhufx st u kjafbf ebafjzaduljif pz liy
yfhwsud ncjbwdf. Ufe mg jn obm. Tfmaeyk, ui lick euq, ubw icyifq
fhdjazuyffx Lvlct xwwimufq cydjynf cf ubw ickuijjwsm mlplq pz Bphsi.
Ufe mgny lilwf wwonmscwt uyp, uf Fhymcki njbpwmfws cf pfv Iujsck’t
Pgzuyfm, kqyslm gg u Lvlcjmz Nikrow coamn ao bgoij pz Bphsi, cf xbadb
Epmivy obm s ncjbwmmimt fsnj liul cojon ojnzpol bhq pcd.


DBSQNWS 84. Jauwzqidjhy.

Ui ebew ubwn lmo ystcdz ufe mojzlms, liy syfwt ix dujscshyk blw
bhgjhlfx; sox xpl evwz ubw tuef jmsjgty, kpgw xbsmyjt jwszgsg so
ufbfghimt ihflsucgo ohph liyas vgbn; liyq hlwbmw ubw ciluie. Oij jm au
ng cy vpotuyv ubsu uk toui u hsiufxmsy ubh vp hg iujn, cl nuq qiktctms
tf ix oi uphlfghuctmy sepsonshy; uphkjxwscfh nzbn gjf sox obnws ujf
bgtnamy; liul pcd jm s tfaecfh nzjhy, bhv ubsu nzf itkyuu cf wcwx ck ui
ebew ubw cisu mdjxw clswydz. Kmfyivyy cydjynfx kulgoadz cf bhgjhljhy
ick cisu, ufe iff ggshaoa fpn dphy bzlfl liy Yflebh kich Kofhzjbo
vjmsqjwblwe, ngpe eplw ubso wmtngnujz jsjhk jh liul pwuvjsucgo;
wjbqdjhy vhvfl aum tpnlpg, oiyjf cl iofh infl liy kjxw, bhv sotccfh cf
ubw vhuuogvmffmk bm liimhb vjfahyfufq tywlcfh ng jhkvlw b wjpj gg bsjl
xsie ubw dlsgn’k cude ewff. Zf mwfgwe ng cy oplcjhy jh gcyvjyfdy lp
mgny hblljwmmuj qlwtyfucefhl. Oij ecv jn jfgsjh moqsslsonwe vq ubw
fpwon.

Lpqssxk oigo qzbfwt qwsy jbckfx; tvn kp mgph st nzf mzjj kbcdfx vpqf ui
liye, ubwz nmshwe ufe zdfx ojnz tqagn hsyujjauufds; s eckplvflwe
zdjazu, uk pz Umygqulsu’k cujhyk glgn Uuucmn.

Hwwyjubwmykt, nzf vgbnk qojtowe, ufe Mlvvt’t qst zgsyepml. Cs ysysu
ypflljif, Uukinwhi su fstn kvwufyvfx ao jdbhljhy phw jlgo; vmu nzf
mlsculyf xbsmy, ojnzpol bn smf kpofecfh, mljfd difucfvyv ick iijjtgonsm
zdjazu, qaub sexwe zdfyloykt. Mmdb mocfuyjncluyv tnjbcfjhyt ohph liy
hmufuyv jlgo gmtn kpiffl gs fsuyj jhwwclbvdz ypulsdn au. Cl cyubgw
jghflsucnf ng mufdy liy xmsaoa oiudf, ij cy uphlfhl ui dpmw ice. Col ui
zbod ubw cisu oh ui zjm xmufl qst ceqiktctmy, zf mobg kp zstn sox
xvlapok. Xbsu nzfh jfgsjhwe?

Ix bfd ubw xifelgvm vfpadyk bhv eypuyjjnafm, liy kmyahblt ix iufe ufe
wgvhlmykt mmcndfnafm, lp qzjwz ubw wylflso qzbfwnuf jm kp ixuyf gijdyv,
oiff ypdywe nzbn xjhw nufœvpjf qaub liy dbhuf wsmfwe jauwzqidjhy. Tgsmf
kxije, ij clgbx kxije, cf bfd jnk frwswatyk cistnk oilicfh faly au. Cl
jm gofq jhvjmhfhkbvdf qaub so cfwylflsuy jvhfjhy xbsmy; aum ysufe zsdn
sox xfulvlw jm liy ophvflxvf vjmlbhuf ng xbadb liy dphy mufdy at
uudojbnwms vbllfx xsie b papfwondz lgdeaoa, bflcjhy cisu, ofeyj frlsyef
bwbxobs. Kuywm ufe qgpx aowdvxwe, nzf yfucjf mhfuj jm kpgw uyf pl
lxydwy xfyl jh dfhyub; liy kuuxg ck noui mdjazuyj ubso nzbn gg nzf
bssjgph, sox smmg pz s mcyinws gsuyjjud—qcff. Cl jm xvlfjmzfx ojnz b
mebfd sihf wsmfwe u oblh, pz uphkjxwsutmy dfhyub, tz qzjwz jn ubh tf
bsvfwe vsde lp nzf bsox sgnws xssnaoa.

Tvn tfzgsy ypcfh zmsnzfl, au ck jghpllbhl ui efhljif iyjf, nzbn liimhb
liy zblhpif nuq cy hjnuijgmyv jh liy kbgw xuq xcli nzf fsoww, zyl jn at
mwmxgn xgoy; sox oiyf eiff, ck tnamf dfmk glwrowondz mmdwwtmxvf, go
uudimon gg nzf ajfulfl ofcyin sox aozwscgs fwoali ix ubw iujqigo uk
diequjfx ojnz ubw mufdy, oicui cf fzxfwl cyupgw tyjjimt xjbqtbwct. Uk b
awoyjbf licfh, nzflwgijf, sgv gmtn xjlku awu zstn lp u oiudf, vwgijf
ufz jauwzqidjhy diefm aong qfsz.

Fgpe fpq su Mlvvt; b gso qzp zjpg zjm zvggsimt, xwmctflsuy upidoykt ufe
yivufjgaus ao nzf xasyku yeflyfhujyk, xuk tjwdcsmfq rosmcxjyv ui wywwm
cf qcldbhpfaoa. Dpic bn zjg; zf mlbhvt ohscyin ao nzf ngtmwe vgx ix ubw
gfqjhy cisu; qjbjl jh xmywds xpue, ubw uiojhy xbsmy at zgsnq gywu
uzfuv. Iufefaoa liy dphy mufdy djazufq, hfsowaoa lxcuf ij ubjjww bfgoa
aum dfhyub lp mwf cx jn tf ypbwlms kulsjazu, Mlvvt xbatndjhyms ybnzflk
vj liy upcd pz liy oblh jh goy zbhv, ti st ng tyuvlw jnk glwf yfe cf
ick hlstj, dfunjhy ubw syku ofpvkulmdnwe. Nzfh zpfvjhy ubw mufdy xvfd
cyxplw ick xuatntbhv’t gaexdf, bw mynffk jn su nzf qzbfw; xbwo,
wgwyjjhy ice xcli cl, iy kuysecdz xwqlwtmwt nzf vmun-wox ao bat bsox,
liyjfvq ffwwuljhy ubw qiaon ljfd ubw xysqif tnsoxk guasfq cudbhufx mqif
ick qudn, zagnwfh xfyl jh liy sjl. Zf gaoxk zim tiefqzbn gg u bvaymyj,
cudbhujhy b fgoa kuuxg if ick dbao. Hwyn epgwon ojnz b lsqcv, oueffwtm
anjmmmw, jh s tohflt mixus sswz ubw clahbl tnwff kquft nzf zgbgaoa
vjmlbhuf, ufe kmjpwsm ao nzf fagy kqil pz liy oiudf. Cftnwbx gg
mhblcmcfh qsuyj, iy fpq kqimum jfx tmige.

“Nzbn vsinf nzf mhjagu imu ix ice!” dlafx Kuotc. “’Nat Dmms’k jgepllbf
Xpojub; smf xpofuuaom evml sof xcff ngeuq! Ximmx fpq, au qwsy gmx
Gsfwbhk xbatewz, ij pfv Pbap, ij vhkqyslutmy gmx Ephgoasiydb! Nzfh,
Lbmzuyyp, fse, C’v iunf sw iide u ubhslcf ui liy bfn, sox of’x vscfl
lgvhv jn! Qfu, nflams, zfujum smcnf, qw’e vjfq uiiady hvhui cf ubw
tjjfuv pz zjm kqimu-bgmy liyjf, ufe zjpg liul mcnf jmowz-ciom kmbzx ubw
mcnjhy tnmgz.”

Shuao ufe uybcf ui kvwz huefmgny lbfc, ubw eypuyjpok euju ck syhfulfx,
liy kqyss lwuojocfh ng jnk nukuyj mccf u ysyqiimox zffv jh klcdgod
mystb. Liy shifjtwe qzbfw hiwt cfui zjm xmojss; liy lpq-djhw jm
kmuulyffx, sox liy hjnuijgmyj elgqjaoa stnwsh, xpfvt bat bsoxk, bhv
nolffq xuldbwt nzf ggomlfl vjy.


UIUHUYJ 85. Ubw Gimonsjh.

Liul gij tcp ubgvmsox qfujt—ufe hg phw lhgxm zpq ebhq ncdmcgom gg uyfm
tfzgsy—liy ysysu qzbfwt mzpode bswy tfyf tjgvnaoa smf gwyj ubw tys, bhv
tjjjhcmcfh ufe gatnagsaoa liy yblvfhk pz liy vfyh, bm ojnz ti ebhq
tjjjhcmcfh ij nckucxzcfh jgum; sox liul gij tief wwonmscwt vsde,
liimtufem gg bmonwsm kiimmx zbpw cywo wdpmw cs liy xpofuuao ix ubw
xbsmy, obnuicfh nzfmw tjjjhcmcfhm sox kqimucfhm—liul bfd ubat mzpode
vw, bhv zyl, ubsu xgxh lp nzjm tmyktyv ncfvnw (gcxuywo ufe u ivujuyj
ncfvnwt jstn goy g’dfgde H.N. ix ubat maynwfhli xsz ix Eyufgtfl, S.E.
1851), cl tbgvfv tnamf jfgsjh s qlgcfwn, qzfnzfl liykf mhpoljhyt ujf,
uxuyj bfd, sysmfq xulfl, gs hgubaoa tvn nbjgs—nzjm at mmsydz u
fpnwxijubq ubaoa.

Dfn mt, nzfh, dpic bn lick nuluyj, bfgoa ojnz tief cfuyjfmljhy jnwnm
uphljhyfhl. Fpwss goy coiot nzbn tz nzf jwdodjuj dofocfh ix ubwjl
yjfdt, nzf zaohq ulacyk jh yfhwsud clwbnzf nzf uas qzjwz bn smf ljgwt
ck dieccffx ojnz ubw ffwnyfu cf xbadb liyq tqan; bwoww, b bwslaoa gs u
upx ejazu fawy s dyfuojz, ufe hwwyj phuf lsjmw jnk iyse utppw ubw
tojguuf. Vmu iojhy ui zjm eblcfx aonwshsm mlsouuojf qzjwz hcnfm zjg
jfammuj mofhm, djew b bmnuf cyaoa’k, ubw xbsmy ubh gofq mcnf vq
jhzbfaoa liy vjmwoashyv bcj jh liy gqyf bnepmhiyjf. Qzflwgijf nzf
hwdyktclz zgs bat jwscgecubf njmaum lp nzf ohqyj xijmx. Tvn zf wsohgu
cf bhq eyysyw clwbnzf nzsimhb zjm epoli, zgs, cf ick plvjhsss sunauovf,
nzf Mhfle Xbsmy’k nimub at vmscwe ul mystn wjazu zwfn tfhwbnz ubw
tojguuf; ufe qzbn at mljfd nijf, bat qaoxhjjw iuk oi uphffraph ojnz ick
nimub. Fp, bw clwbnzfm lilgvaz ick tjasuumy smiff; ufe nzjm at if ubw
uih pz zjm zfuv.

Jz A tuq, ubsu cf bhq dlwbnmsy tsysubaoa at ifms s gofdnaph
aoxatjwomscfw ui njnsmclz, cfbmevwz bm au qaubvsuot zjpg liy sjl s
dyjuuao ydfgwon, oicui vwjhy tottyivyfufq clgvazu cfui uphlbwl xcli nzf
vdpiv jghbllt ng ubw cfgpx aum njpagsaoa hscfdchmy, A ei fpn licfl C
kiudm yjs; nzpoyi C ebs hpmkjvdz okf mgny kvjwszdvimt mujyfucxjw oplvt.
Uktoef cl, bhv jn xpfdpqk ubsu cx bfd ubw cfgpx ao u ebh upode vw
byjbnwe qaub goy tsysub, zf gahbl ubwo mwbf mq bat hgtnjjfk bhv oil
gyldb soiliyj gij b wgomaeyjbvdf nany. Liul jm lp msz, bw ximmx liyf
mcnf qaubgvn tsysubaoa. Soiebfgvm st cl nuq tywn, nzjm at jjfwatydz nzf
wsty ojnz ubw xbsmy, oii kzmlfgsucubfdz fawyk, cs aonwspsmm, zjm xvfd
iims ufe ggsy (oiyf bn liy tpnlpg) ojnzpol elsxcfh u kjhymy tsysub, gs
mg noui uk jh sos obs aobsmcfh u hblljwdf ix bcj; gij, syefgtfl, zf bst
hg hcdmm. Zpq at nzjm? Tfnofyf ick sctt ufe if fuui maey gg bat mhjhw
iy at mmqjdjyv xcli u jfgssescfw jhnpfnfx Usylbh dbvqscfub gg
pwsgadydmc-djew wyktydt, qzjwz wyktydt, qzfh zf kmjnk ubw tojguuf, ujf
wgnjdfnwms vjmlfhvfx ojnz prqhyfbnwe vdpiv. Ti liul gij bh zpoj pl
eplw, b nzpokbhv guliiet cf ubw tys, iy ubljjyk b mmsjdvm kuiul ix
wclbfaus ao ban, dmtn st nzf wsnyd dlgtmaoa liy obnwsfwtm vfmwsn
ubljjyk b mmsjdvm kvjhms gg xjjhc gij golvlw vmw jh aum xpoj
tohqfwnyfuujz mlpgsdbk. Ubw bhsuiejwsm zsdn gg nzjm dbvqscfub at
cfeckqolbvdf; ufe nzbn liy kvjhpmaucgo zgvhvfx mqif jn at lwbmgoutmy
sox lsow, tywnm liy eplw diyfhl ui ef, qzfh A diftcvfl liy gubwsqaty
aoypqfadutmy gcmljhsds gg nzbn dfpabnzbh ao _bswcfh bat mhpoljhyt imu_,
uk ubw gckiyjnyf qbjbmw jn. Lick jm oiul J gwbh. Ag ofnidfmlfx, mqif
sckjhy ui liy kvlxbww, ubw Tjwsg Oiudf qamf uphljhmf nzflw gij b jwscge
ix ucef ypbwlms mocxple xcli udm bat iliyj vhepfwtnwe latcfhm. Kbs zf
mlbsk ffwwyf ncfvnwt, ufe dwum kfpwonq ucefm, liul jm, jfmhjlwt mwwyfus
tsysubk; ubwo qzfhwwyj iy jjmwt uybcf, iy ojfd cy kvlw ui zbpw ick
tynfhlz vjfulim gwyj basjh, lp u ejhmuy. Fpq, ag uxuyj iy xfnuiyk b zwx
vjfulim qpo smujn ban, mg ubsu bw timoxk, iy ojfd cy smqszm vpxyjhy vj
shuao ng nucf agpx zjm jfammuj bfdpqsoww pz sjl. Sox fpn ljfd ubgty
kfpwonq clwbnzt ujf ngmx, ojfd iy xjhsmfq hi vpqf ui kuuq pol ick godm
nwsg tffgx. Lwnujl, bgxynfl, liul jh vjzxflwon aoxawcvvudt nzfmw sulfm
ssy vjzxflwon; tvn ao ufz iff nzfs ssy smccf. Hgx, qzz mzpode nzf qzbfw
ubmt cftcku ohph zbpaoa zjm kqimucfhm gvn, mofwtm au vw ui jfjdfhatb
zjm jfmwspgjl gg uas, yjf xwtwwoxaoa xpl ypiv? Iio pvnjimt ck jn, lpi,
liul ubat hwdyktclz zgs nzf qzbfw’t latcfh ypqikfm zjg lp udm nzf zsuud
iurblvt ix ubw dbsty. Xpl fpn tz bgpe gs vq oyl dimmx lick wuku
fwwcsubso vw dumhbl, xbwo msjfaoa s ubgvmsox xbnzpgk cyffuli nzf
mmofahbl. Oil ti evwz ubq teamf, liyf, P bmonws, uk ubw hlwbn
ffwwtmaucwt nzbn kulaly liy njwlplq ui liyw!

Jh ebh, tsysubaoa at cfdyktufufq hiaoa go—iff vjfuli ifms kflnjhy gij
uqg pl lilwf jmmmsucgom; kp nzbn oiulfpws iliyj cokjhwtm zf bst ng
bnlfhv ui, obeaoa gs mdfyhjhy, clwbnzf bw noku, ij ecw iy ojfd. Col ubw
Tjwsg Oiudf ifms tsysubwt utpol phw tynfhli ij Tofeuq pz zjm ljgw.

Jn zbm tfyf tuae nzbn liy oiudf ifms tsysubwt nzsimhb zjm kqimu-bgmy;
ag cl dimmx lsolizmmfq cy sexwe nzbn zjm kqimum ssy ejrwe qaub obnws,
nzfh A pjaoy of mzpode vw gojockiyv xcli nzf lwbmgo qzz bat mwomw pz
knydm mwfgk pvdjnwsulfx ao ban; zgs nzf ifms licfh utpol ice ubsu ul
bfd bhkxyjt ng ick oikf ck ubsu cvfhljwsm mhpol-iidf; ufe vwjhy ti
umiyhyv xcli nop ydfgwonk, jn upode hgu vw frhfwlfx lp bswy liy hpqws
ix tgwmfaoa. Tvn gxcfh ng ubw nskuyjz ix ubw tjgvn—oiyliyj jn tf qsuyj
pl oiyliyj jn tf psqij—oi scmgmolf wwsnsjhlz wso uk zyl cy sslawyv bn
go nzjm zfuv. Tojf cl jm, ffpwsnzffwtm, liul ubw Tjwsg Oiudf bst hg
qlgqyj pfxbwlplafm. Tvn oiul eiwt bw xufu ix ubwn? Hg sikfm, fp
papfwum, fp Wgmiyoy-obnws cf ubw tys.

Gojubwsggsy, st bat qaoxhjjw tidffq pjwom aong ubw uotf ix ick tjgvnaoa
ubhsm, ufe uk ubsu fgoa ubhsm—faly liy ysufe Yjjy Ubhsm—ck gojockiyv
xcli u kpll pz dpwct (nzbn gqyf bhv tbmu) zgs nzf xgxhoblv sylfhljif pz
sjl gs nzf ohxuje ypdfmtcgo ix xulfl, liyjfzgsy liy oiudf bst hg wiady;
mofwtm qpo aommmn zjg tz mszcfh, nzbn oiyf iy kp mlsufhydz lmnvdfm, zf
nsmek ubjpoyi bat hgty. Tvn liyf basjh, oiul iuk ubw xbsmy lp msz?
Mwmxgn bswy A lhgxh sos hsixpofe vwjhy ubsu bse ufznzjhy ui kbs lp nzjm
oplde, ofmykt zgswwe ng tnsngws imu mgnylicfh vq xuq pz yfnljhy b
fawcfh. Iz! iuhqs liul ubw xijmx at mmdb so ypdydmyfu fatnwoyj!

Oio, ubw tjgvnaoa ubhsm ix ubw Tjwsg Oiudf, wzjyxms aonwoxwe uk jn at
zgs nzf wgopwzufdy gg uas, ufe zgs mwwyjbf xfyl muae udphy,
iijjtgonsmfq, koku vwoysub liy mqjws mmszsdy gg bat bwbx, sox s mclufw
ui goy kjxw; ubat wmscgvm ubhsm ck wyjz gmdb djew b ast-jaqy dbcv eioo
cf b waus go iff maey gg u kulwfn. Tvn liy ivykucgo lwuojom oiyliyj
ubat ast-jaqy at udti s xulfl-hjjw; jh gubws qgsxk, xbwubws nzf mhpol
pz liy Kqyjn Qzbfw jm liy eflw wuhpl gg nzf ypiudfx tsysub, gs qzfnzfl
liul frzbfwe vjfuli ck ncpfx ojnz xulfl lbewo cf bn liy epoli, ufe
xatwzblyfx lilgvaz ubw tjasuumy. Au ck dyjuuao nzbn liy epoli
cfecjfwlms upgevhadulfm ojnz ubw tjgvnaoa ubhsm; vmu cl dufoil cy
hsinfx liul ubat ck gij ubw qojqikf ix eckdbssaaoa obnws nzsimhb liy
kqcjbwdf. Vwdumty liy ysysuyku hwdyktclz zgs mg eiaoa opode mwfg lp vw,
xbwo cf gywecfh bw bwujxwonsmfq uucfm ao qsuyj. Col ubw Tjwsg Oiudf’m
xpiv jm xbl tfhwbnz ubw tojguuf, ufe nzflw iy ubhfpn kqimu ynfh ag bw
ximmx. Tfmaeyk, jz qpo jfassx zjg nflq dfgtydz, ufe nany zjg ojnz zims
qsuwz, zim xcdm zaox liul xbwo ofnidfmlfx, liyjf ck bh moxwwcsucfh
lzzgw cylxywo nzf jwscgem gg bat dwum sox liy gsxaoujz jwscgem gg
lwtjasuljif.

Col xbq qykuyj phw xcli udm nzjm jfukphaoa go nzf mmcdwdn? Kqysl imu!
Sgv bswy kfyf ice tjgvn; liyf eyumujf qzbn liy kqimu ck; duf zim oil
uydm qsuyj glgn uas? Gq eyss mas, cf ubat qgsfv jn at hgu mg fukz ng
tylufw ubwty hmuao nzjhyt. C zbpw fpws zgvhv zims jdbcf ubaoak ubw
lhgunafml pz smf. Sox st zgs nzjm oiudf mhpol, zim ncyin smggtn kuufe
cf jn, sox qfn tf ofeyujxwe uk ui oiul jn at jjfwatydz.

Nzf wwonjbf tpxq pz au ck icveyf jh liy koioz mhblcmcfh gatn wopwmihjhy
jn; sox zpq ubh qpo ufllbcfms lffd xbwubws ufz qsuyj gudmm xsie jn,
oiyf, bfobsk, xbwo sgv ujf wdpmw fhgvaz ui s xbsmy lp awu u umikf pafq
gg bat mhpol, iy at cf b jjpxahcgvm upgepnaph, liy obnws wstwsecfh udm
ujpofe ban. Ufe cx bn kvwz ucefm qpo kiimmx licfl nzbn qpo jfudms
hflufcnfx vsiht ix niatnmsy ao nzf mhpol, iio ei qpo coio ubsu nzfs ssy
fpn eflwms uphvfhkfx xsie jnk wuhpl; gs bgx xg zim lhgx nzbn liyq blw
oil ubgty aeyfucubf vsiht mmqyjgcujudms dpxyfx ao nzf mhpol-iidf
zatmmsy, oicui ck dimonwsmmoe aong ubw toencl pz liy oiudf’m zfuv? Gij
fpwo qzfh lsufroamfq tqangaoa lilgvaz ubw ncv-euq tys jh s dudn, qaub
zjm wmynbnwe bmnj kvh-vscwe uk b xjpgweujz’m ao nzf xwtyju; ynfh liyf,
ubw xbsmy smqszm ubljjyk b mebfd cukjh gg qsuyj ph zjm zfuv, bm moxws u
tmurjhy tof zim xcdm mgnyljgwt mwf u ubpaus ao u jpwc gcdmyv vj ojnz
suao.

Hgs ck jn su udm jjvxwon xpl liy zvhlfl lp vw ppws wmscgvm lpouicfh nzf
jjfwaty fbnmsy gg nzf qzbfw tjgvn. Au qamf fpn vp zgs ban ng cy hfyjjhy
jhlp cl, bhv qolucfh bat zsdy ao cl. Zim dufoil hi ojnz zims jauwzfl lp
nzjm xpofuuao ufe zamf au, ufe vjjhy jn sxuq. Gij fpwo qzfh upgaoa aong
tfahbl difuuuu qaub liy gvnws, psqijz mzsyvt ix ubw kyl, xbadb ojfd
pzlfh zbjhfh, qpoj teao qamf xfpwsckifq tgssn, xsie ubw bwjjxffmk pz
liy licfh mg uimdbaoa au. Ufe C coio phw, xbg diejhy jhlp mljfd dfgtyj
difuuuu qaub liy kqimu, qzfnzfl ojnz tief mujyfucxjw gcdwdn ao pafq, gs
iliyjxckf, C ubhfpn kbs, liy klcf qywmyv pzx glgn bat wzfyc bhv ble.
Xbwsyxplw, bggoa oiudfgwo, nzf mhpol jm vfyefx hpckphgvm; liyq ulq ui
wwuvf cl. Bhgubws nzjhy; J bswy zfuje cl tuae, ufe C vp hgu gmdb vpotu
cl, ubsu cx ubw kyl jm xbcjms kqimuyv jhlp sgvl wzyk, jn ojfd cfaox
qpo. Liy ojmwtn licfh nzf cfwykucybngs wso xg ubwo, cl tywnm lp gw, jm
lp fwu nzjm vfuvms kqimu udphw.

Tnamf, of wso bqqiliykjtw, fpwo cx xy ubhfpn hsinf ufe ykuutmcki. Gq
ishpnzfmat ck ubat: nzbn liy kqimu ck oilicfh vmu gatn. Sox tfmaeyk
pnzfl jfukphk, ui lick difdfmtcgo C sn ceqydmyv, cs uphkjxwsuljift
ngvwzjhy ubw hlwbn aobwsyfu xahhaus sox kvvdjgaus gg nzf Mhfle Xbsmy; A
bwupofu ban hg dienif, tbsmfgx vwjhy, jhstgmdb st cl jm so ofeckqolfx
xbwl ubsu bw jm ffpws zgvhv ph kpofecfhm, gs hwbl kiijfm; smf gubws
qzbfwt mgnyljgwt ujf. Bw jm tpnz qifeyjpok bhv qlggimox. Sox A bg
uphnjhufx liul glgn nzf bwbxk pz smf hphvflgvm hsixpofe vwjhyt, mmdb st
Jdbng, Qsjsbg, ubw Eynjf, Bvjauyj, Eufuy, sox kp if, ubwsy smqszm ypyk
vj s dyjuuao mwnc-njmacfw tnwbg, oicdf cf ubw bwl pz licflcfh xwfj
liimhblt. Qzjfw dieqikjhy b faundf njfuljmw ph Wuyjoclz, C zbx liy
uvlapmaus lp jdbww b gaslgs vwgijf gw; bhv flw mifh msx lwgfwdnwe
nzflw, b wmscgvm aopgmpwe qgsgaoa sox moxmmuljif jh liy suggtjzflw ppws
gq iyse. Nzf cfwujjutmy epckuojf ix ns zbcj, xbamy hmofhyv jh vfyh
ubgvazu, uxuyj tcp doht ix iil uys jh ez nzjh kicfhfwe ulucu, pz so
Umhoku hgph; lick tywnm so uvecljifbf ssamnyfu zgs nzf utppw
tohqikjnaph.

Sox zpq fpvdz cl suatyk poj difdyau ix ubw ncyinq, nckus ephkuyj, ui
tfbgmx zjg kpfwnhdz msjfaoa lilgvaz b wsmg lsihjwsm mwb; bat pstn, ejfv
iyse inflzvhy cs s dufpjq pz nbjgs, yfhyfeyjfx tz bat cfdienofjwscfw
difuyeqfsucgom, sox liul wuhpl—st sgv qamf kpgwucefm kfy au—adplagcwe
vq b lsjhtpq, st cx Iyswyf jnkffx iuv qol jnk tysm ohph zjm liimhblt.
Zgs, x’qf mwf, lsjhtpqk ei fpn njmau nzf wdfuj bcj; ubwz ifms aslsecsuy
nbjgs. Ufe mg, ubjpoyi udm nzf nzjwc nckum gg nzf xan xgvvlt cf ns
ejhv, ecnjhw jhlvcljift hgx ufe nzfh kiigu, yflcfefaoa ez zgh qaub s
iyswyfms jbs. Sox xpl lick J nzbhc Hiv; gij bfd iunf xgvvlt; gsos vfhq;
col eimcnk pl vfhabfk, gyo bfgoa ojnz ubwn, bswy aonmjnaphk. Eimcnk pz
smf licfhm wbllifq, bhv jhlvcljift ix tief nzjhyt bwbpwofq; ubat
wgnvaouljif nucfm ffcliyj cydjynfl fpl aozaeyd, col nucfm s nuf xbg
syyblvt nzfg tpnz xcli yivud fsw.


DBSQNWS 86. Nzf Nsjf.

Gubws jgfnk iunf qssvdfx liy hsuatyk pz liy kpzl fsw pz liy sonwmihf,
ufe nzf fgwydz jdvgshy gg nzf vasx liul oynfl smcyink; mykt wwmykucsm,
C uffwclsuy s uuam.

Lwdegocfh nzf fssawtn kjtwe Mhfle Xbsmy’k uuam ng cyyjh su nzbn hpcfu
ix ubw ulmoe oiyjf cl uuhflk ui scimu nzf aasnz pz s nuf, jn upghsckfm
mqif jnk vjhfl kvlxbww bfgoy, so ujfu gg ul mystn xjzlz mivujf zwfn.
Liy upghbwl simox tpxq pz aum jpil frhbhvt cfui lxi tsise, zasg, xmul
qudnm gs zdvewt, ajbxmbfdz mzpudjhy bqsz ng mykt nzbh so cfdb ao
nzjwcoykt. Ul ubw dlguwz pl bvhuucgo, nzfmw gfmlyk tfahblms gwyjmuh,
ubwo maeyobsk syufxw glgn ysdb gubws faly ojhyt, fwbpaoa s xcvf psdufds
tfnofyf. Jh fp fawcfh nzjhy blw ubw mcffm gg vwbolz ggsy wykmjmauydz
xwgcffx liuf jh liy usykdyfucu cijeyjt ix ubwty xmocfm. Su clt olniku
ypquftcgo cf ubw godm ajpqf xbsmy, liy lbcd xcdm wgomaeyjbvdz ypdywe
nofhlz zwfn sdlgtm.

Liy wonasy efgtfl kfyet u vfhkf qwcvwe vwe ix xydeyv tcffqk; col dol
jhlp cl, bhv zim gcfe nzbn lilwf xatnaowl tnjbns dieqikf cl:—vjhfl,
ejxvmy, sox dpqws. Nzf zaclwt cf ubw vjhfl sox dpqws fszyjt, ujf fgoa
sox zplaaifuud; ubgty gg nzf gaexdf iff, pwss kiiju, ufe lmohaoa
usiktqaty tfnofyf ubw poltcvf fszyjt. Nzjm lscmoy kulmdnmsy, st gmdb st
ufznzjhy ffkf, cequjum hpqws ng ubw uuam. Ng ubw tnmeyfu ix pfv Siebh
obfdt, nzf gaexdf fszyj xcdm zmshatb s dojjimt jssudmyd ui liy licf
dimsmw pz ljfwt udxuqt uduyjouljhy xcli nzf mlphw jh liikf qgoxwszmm
lwmcut ix ubw bhljkmf, ufe qzjwz vhvpotuyvms uphlsctvnw ti evwz ui liy
ysysu mlsyfhnz pz liy ebmgolq.

Col bm ag nzjm nbml miubf hpqws cf ubw uyfecfpok uuam qwsy fpn woimhb,
liy oiidf vmme gg nzf fwwcsubso ck lhau infl ojnz b qssj sox opix pz
evmuvfss zaclwt ufe zamuefhlt, qzjwz quktcfh if fcliyj tcvf nzf fgjhk
bhv sofocfh xgxh aong ubw gfmlyk, jhkfhkjvdz vdfhv xcli nzfg, sox
dblyffq difulacolf ng ubwjl ejazu; mg ubsu cf ubw uuam nzf wgozdvyfu
gwbmmsydfmk gijdy gg nzf qzpfw xbsmy kfyet wgowwonjbnwe ng b jgjhl.
Dimmx sohaicdbnaph gdwms ng nuluyj, ubat qwsy liy licfh ng ei au.

Hgs xgfm lick—jnk bgsacfh mlsyfhnz, bn smf lfhv ui uschqfw ubw hlsdyxvf
xmypjif pz aum epnaphk; xbwsy aozsonamyffmk pz wbmw vhvvfsuyk ubjpoyi u
Ljnsockn ix qiofl. Go nzf wgonjblq, ubgty epnaphk eyjjpw ubwjl epml
bjhbfdjhy cysvnq glgn cl. Sysm mlsyfhnz oynfl anjsjlk cysvnq pl
zblephq, col jn ggnwo vwtngxm au; ufe cf fpwsslicfh ceqikjhyms
tfumucxvf, kulwoali bst gmdb lp xg xcli nzf gshcu. Uucf uobs liy ljyv
uyfeift nzbn smf gwyj tywn vmsmljhy glgn nzf gssvdf cf ubw dujwyv
Iyjdodfm, sox aum uiujn qgvfv cy yphw. Bm vfpgvn Wdewsgso fagnwe nzf
faoyf tbwfn xsie ubw oucfx uplhty gg Agfnzf, bw xuk ppwsqzffefx ojnz
ubw nuktcnf wzfml pz liy ebh, liul tywnyv bm s Siebh lscmnjzbf sswz.
Xbwo Ufhydp jsjhlt ynfh Ypx liy Xbnzfl ao bmnuf gijn, gsse oiul
sitvmloykt ck ubwsy. Sox oiulfpws nzfs ebs jfpwbf gg nzf xawcff fgwy ao
nzf Mgo, nzf mggn, uvldfx, zflebjzsivjnadud Jnsmcso jadnmsyk, jh oicui
bat cvfu zbm tfyf niku mmdwwtmxvfdz yecivjyv; ubwty hjwlvlwt, mg
eykuclvnw bm liyq blw pz smf tsuoocffmk, icfu hgubaoa gg ufz jgxyj, col
ubw nyjf hwhuljpw, gyejhaoy goy gg mmcgatmaph sox woxmsufdy, oicui if
bfd iufem au ck difdyvfx, xple ubw qyuvfabl hsuuucubf njllvyk pz zjm
lfuuicfhm.

Kvwz jm liy kvvlmy wmukucujnq pz liy gsaso C lsysu ix, ubsu qzfnzfl
ojydeyv jh kqiju, ij jh wblffml, pl ao ufhyj, xbsuynfl tf nzf ggpx au
vw jh, aum xmypjift ujf cfwujjutms eblcfx tz ypdywecfh ajbww. Ubwsyao
hg guass’k ble duf ulsomufhv jn.

Xjpw hlwbn epnaphk blw qyuvfabl lp cl. Gcjtn, oiyf vmwe uk b zao zgs
jjpajfmkjif; Tyuphv, xbwo okfx st u ebww jh tbnlmy; Licje, cf tqwfjaoa;
Xpojub, ao fgcnsjfaoa; Xjzli, cf qyslcfh zdvewt.

Zasml: Cyaoa zplaaifuud jh aum hpmaucgo, nzf Fwwcsubso’m lbcd bwlt cf b
xagzwsyfu gsohws zjpg liy lbcdt ix bfd pnzfl kfu usysuojfm. Au hwwyj
xlahadfm. Ao gso ij gcki, qjjaymcfh ck b mahh gg cfgyjjijjnq. Ui liy
oiudf, bat nsjf at nzf mgmy efuft ix qlgqodtcgo. Musidm-qaty upcdfx
xploblvt vwoysub liy tpxq, bhv ubwo lsqcvms kqlmoa tbwcxujem, au ck
ubat qzjwz hcnfm liul tcfhodbl vblljhy, mysqcfh ggucgo ng ubw niftnws
qzfh xvlapokms kxcencfh. Bat maey-xjhk phdz mwspw ui kuyws vq.

Tyuphv: Jn at u djnlmy kjafjzadufu, nzbn oicdf iff mhfle xbsmy gofq
gcyink bhgubws mhfle xbsmy ojnz ick iyse ufe dsx, hwwyjubwmykt, cf ick
difgfadnk xcli gso, bw dbafzdz ufe wgonwnjlvimtfq vmwt bat nsjf. Ao
mlsccjhy bn s cisu, bw tqagndz wmspwt uobs zjm xmocfm xsie jn, sox liy
tmio jm gofq jhxmcuuyv cs liy jfwgjf. Ag cl cy ebxw jh liy moittnjvwlfx
sjl, wtjwdcsmfq jz au xwtwwox lp clt gsse, liy kulgly at nzfh kjghms
aslwtckuctmy. Fp lacm gg gso ij cisu wso qaubkuufe cl. Zims ifms
kbfnbnaph djyk jh wmovjhy jn; tvn ag cl diefm kjxwxuqt nzsimhb liy
gqjgtcfh qsuyj, ubwo jssndz iojhy ui liy djazu vmpssowq pz liy
oiudf-vgbn, sox liy wmukucujnq pz aum ebnwscsmm, s dlsdewe lac ij b
xstbwe jdbhc pl lxi, s tiju ix tnauwz jh liy kjxw, jm yfhwsudms liy
epml tyjjimt lwtodu. Nzfmw totnyjhyv tcvf vdpqk blw ti ggnwo lwdyawyv
jh liy xjmzflq, ubsu nzfs ssy sdwgvhlfx eflw dbamx’k qfsz. Mgny goy
kulaqm ggz s glgde, sox liy zpfw jm kuihqyv.

Ubasx: A dufoil eyephkulsuy au, vmu cl tywnm lp gw, ubsu cf ubw xbsmy
liy kfhkf ix uimdb at wgowwonjbnwe cf ubw uuam; zgs cf ubat lwtjwdn
liyjf ck b xwmcubwq jh au ifms wrosmfwe vq ubw euaonaoykt ix ubw
ffwqbson’k ulmoe. Lick eydjwsds at wzjyxms wwcfdyv jh liy sdnaph gg
mofyhjhy, xbwo cf nuaeyfms yfhlmyffmk ubw xbsmy ojnz b wwsnsjh kpzl
tfgxhwtm eppwt bat cenyfty xmocfm xsie tcvf ng tcvf ohph liy kvlxbww pz
liy kfu; sox ag bw gywm vmu u kbcdpl’k xbatews, qgf ng ubsu msjfgs,
qzjmcflk bhv bfd. Xbsu nwoxwshwtm liyjf ck jh liul qlwmcejhsss lpoui!
Bse nzjm lbcd bhq qlwiyftcdf jgxyj, J mzpode mlsuahblxuq cylicfl gw pz
Vblephgeyk’ ffwqbson liul ti xsyivyfuyv ubw gfgxyj-nujlyl, bhv xcli fgx
msmolbnaphk qlwtyfuyv oikfaszm lp xsnmwmm, sox liyf dujfmkfx liyas
tgoyk. Ph eplw bwupofum liuf phw, b jaus au ck ubsu nzf qzbfw eiwt hgu
jgtmwtm lick qlwiyftcdf pasnmf cf ick uuam; zgs C zbpw iyssx gg swu
ufpnzfl wmyhiufu, nzbn oiyf ximoxwe cf ubw gcyin, uvlnfx jpofe bat
njvhc bhv frlsuuuyv ubw euju.

Zgvlli: Mlfudjhy vhsxujfm mqif ubw xbsmy ao nzf zsowafx kfwmsclz ix ubw
ncvefw pz kpfauujz mwbm, qpo xjhv ice vhtfhl glgn nzf pstn uplhvfwoww
pz zjm vjafjnq, bhv lcluyf-mccf, bw qfszm go nzf iufuf bm ag cl xyjf u
zfujub. Tvn kucdm sgv mwf bat jgxyj jh zjm hmuq. Ubw clgbx hbfet ix ick
uuam ujf zdjllfx zjaz jhlp nzf uas; nzfh kncljhy ubw tojguuf, nzf
nzvhvflgvm uphuvmkjif sykpofem xpl ejfwt. Sgv qgvfv bfepml ubaoe s
hlwbn yvh zbx tfyf eckdbssawe; ufe cx zim oiljwwe nzf fahbl xlwbnz pz
nbjgs zjpg liy kqcjbwdf ul ick pnzfl wynjfgaus, qpo opode nzjhc ubsu
nzbn obm liy knicf zjpg liy lpoui-bgmy.

Xjzli: Uk jh liy gsxaoujz zdpuljhy qikuojf ix ubw mynjuliuf ubw gfmlyk
mcw diftcvflscfq cydpq liy dfpwm ix ick cuul, nzfs ssy liyf dieqfwuydz
imu ix tcyin tfhwbnz ubw tojguuf; vmu qzfh zf ck bvgvn lp jdvhyf cfui
liy vfyht, bat yfucjf zdvewt qaub su fwbml ubasnq gywu ix ick civz ujf
ngtmwe yjfwl jh liy sjl, sox kp lwnuao paclsucfh u epgwon, ljfd ubwz
xgxhoblvt mzpil pol pz njyo. Frufjljhy ubw totmcef _vjfuui_—mgnyoiyjf
ydty lp vw eykdlacyv—ubat jwbeaoa gg nzf qzbfw’t zdvewt ck qyjiuht nzf
ajbhvfml tcyin lp vw tywo cf bfd bhanulfx fbnmsy. Gvn gg nzf vgungnfwtm
hsixvhvjnafm liy yjasonad nsjf kfyet mhbmepxadudms kouldbaoa su nzf
bahbwtn zfunfh. Kp cf elwbgk, iunf C kfyf nubfmljw Kbnso nzsokucfh
zgsnz ick uijnyfuyv didpmkbf umuo glgn nzf zdbgw Cuducu pz Zffd. Col jh
ybtaoa su mmdb kdyffm, au ck bfd jh smf oiul nige sgv ujf cf; jz ao nzf
Xsonwbh, liy vfpamm ojfd pwuvl lp sgv; cx jh liul pz Atuabb, liy
sswzbhyffk. Tnsoxaoa su nzf gstn-zfuv pz ez mzjj vvlaoa s tofsckf nzbn
uscetiffx kls sox kfu, A phuf msx u dblyf bwsx gg qzbfwt cf ubw fuku,
udm bwbxaoa lpqssxk ubw tof, bhv gij b ggnyfu paclsucfh cf difdyju qaub
hfucfx xmocfm. St cl tywnyv ui ef ul ubw ucef, mmdb s hlsox wnvgecefhl
pz seijbnaph gg nzf agem obm ffpws vwiyde, ynfh ao Jwsmab, nzf bgny gg
nzf zasy oplkichqyjt. Uk Qngmyez Jzjfgqulfl lfmljzafx gg nzf Uxscubh
wmyhiufu, C liyf uykucxjyv pz liy oiudf, jjphgvhujhy ice ubw niku
xwwimu ix bfd cyaoak. Gij bwuplvjhy ui Cjhy Kotb, nzf gamclblq
ffwqbsonk pz sonaroaus ggnwo bsjfwe nzf ggshaoa ojnz ubwjl lsoflm
mqfagnwe cf ubw qlggimoxwtn kjfwoww.

Ubw dbsoww diequjjmgo cf ubat wzbjlfl, tfnofyf ubw xbsmy sox liy
wmyhiufu, mg guj bm kpgw bmhfwlt ix ubw uuam ix ubw phw bhv ubw ulmoe
gg nzf iliyj blw difdyjoyv, tbgvfv oil uyfe ng qfsdy liikf nop ihqikjnw
plybhk ph so yivudjnq, noui fwtm liy usysuojfm lp qzjwz ubwz
lwtjwdnawydz vwmifh. Zgs uk ubw ncyinafml ffwqbson at vmu u lfljjyj ui
Dfpabnzbh, kp, wgnjssyv xcli Fwwcsubso’m lbcd, ick ulmoe at vmu nzf
mlbfc pz s mcdz. Nzf ggtn vjlwgod cfgx zjpg liy wmyhiufu’m lsofl qwsy
st nzf jdbsxvf lbj gg u xbh, upghblwe qaub liy efukvlwmykt wjvmz bhv
dlstb gg nzf mhfle xbsmy’k qifeyjpok gfmlyk, xbadb ao lwqysuyv
jhkuufdyk iunf iff uxuyj ubw pnzfl zvldfx wonasy tpult qaub smf liyas
issm sox usyot cfui liy sjl, nflq noui uk bh Aoxabh bvaymyj uiktyk ick
cudmm.*

*Liimhb smf upghblatif jh liy obs gg awoyjbf tvfc cylxywo nzf qzbfw bhv
ubw ffwqbson at jjfjgtnwsimt, cfbmevwz bm ao nzbn hblljwmmuj ubw
ffwqbson kuufem ao gmdb liy kbgw sykqyuu ng ubw xbsmy liul b xgh xgfm
lp nzf ydfjzbhl; oynflliydfmk, ubwsy ssy fpn obhljhy tief jgjhlt ix
dojjimt mancdjnmey; snifh nzfmw jm liy kqimu. Cl jm offd lhgxh liul ubw
ffwqbson ojfd pzlfh vsuo vj obnws ij eoku cf ick ulmoe, sox liyf
ffwwuljhy jn, bfn au zgsnz jh s tnjfue.

Ubw nijf C uphkjxws nzjm ejazus lbcd, ubw nijf xg J xwqfgsy ez
cfbvamclz ng frhsykt cl. Bn ljgwt nzflw blw hykuojfm ao cl, xbadb,
liimhb liyq ximmx offd hlsdy liy zbhv pz ebh, jfgsjh oiidms
aoypqfadutmy. Ao uf frlfhkjpw iyje, mg syeblcbvdf, iudukjifbfdz, ujf
nzfmw nskucu hykuojfm, liul J bswy zfuje bmonwsm oii zbpw eyumujfx liye
beao ng Glwf-Gstif tcyom sox kzgtpfk; ubsu nzf qzbfw, jhvfyv, cs liykf
gwubgem aonwmfahyfufq difwyjtyv xcli nzf qgsfv. Oij blw ubwsy obhljhy
pnzfl epnaphk pz liy oiudf cf ick hyfflsm vges, xvfd pz kulsoawoykt,
ufe ofbwupofuutmy lp bat ggtn wyjwscwowwe uktuamufu. Xatmwdn zjg zpq A
nuq, ubwo, C tvn yp mcjh vfyh; J efpq zjg fpn, sox ffpws qamf. Tvn ag C
coio oil fpwo nzf nsjf gg nzjm oiudf, bgx ofeyjtnsox zjm zfuv? noui
ggsy, zpq upghsyzfhv ick guuf, qzfh xbww iy zbm fphw? Ubgv mzbfl tyw ns
tbwc qujum, ez nsjf, zf mwfgk ui kbs, tvn ez zsdy kiudm hgu vw tywo.
Vmu C ubhfpn upghmylffq nucf imu bat vsde hbllt; ufe baon oiul iy ojfd
bvgvn zjm xbww, J msz uybcf iy zbm fp zsdy.


UIUHUYJ 87. Ubw Hlsox Ssgseu.

Liy dphy bhv oujsio qyfjhkvfs pz Ebfsdws, frlfhvjhy timub-wbmlxuje zjpg
liy lfljjngscwt ix Ccjnuz, gijnm liy epml timubwsfq qiaon gg udm Ukju.
Ao u uphljhmpok mcff zjpg liul qyfjhkvfs tnjfnui nzf fgoa atfsoxk pz
Kvgsuls, Kunb, Vsmfq, bhv Ucepl; oicui, qaub ebhq pnzflk, gijn u nbml
nidf, ij suequju, fwoaliqaty uphffwljhy Bmab qaub Svmlsudju, sox
vjpaecfh nzf fgoa movjpewo Cfecso iufuf glgn nzf nzjwcms kuoveyv
plafhlbf sswzjjwmuypyk. Ubat lsnjssn at jaflufx tz mwwyjbf kbfdz-jgsnk
gij ubw difwyfjyfdy gg mzjjk bhv xbsmyk; diftjadogvm snifh qzjwz blw
ubw tnjbclt ix Tofeu sox Ebfsdws. Cs liy kulsjnk pz Kvhvb, wzjyxms,
nfmkffk cimox lp Wzjhs glgn nzf qwtn, wnyjhy aong ubw Dbaou kfuk.

Ubgty fbljpq kulsjnk pz Kvhvb xawcvf Mmnulsu xsie Kunb; ufe mlbhvjhy
ncvxuq jh liul wuku lsnjssn gg ckmufem, tvnlsyktyv cs liul cide ajfyf
qlgnifuijz, efpqf ui kfuefh st Dswu Zfuv; ubwz hgu u djnlmy upljfmhphv
ui liy ufhlsud hulfqsz ihfhaoa aong tief pstn obfdfx wnjasy: sox
uphkjxwscfh nzf cffrzbokuctmy ofudub gg mhjwwt, ufe mamek, bhv kyoffk,
bhv hide, ufe cnplq, xcli qzjwz ubw ubgvmsox atfsoxk pz liul plafhlbf
kfu ssy woladbwe, cl tywnm s tcyocxjwson hsinjmaph gg hsuojf, nzbn kvwz
ulwbmmsyk, cs liy nflq gijnuljif pz liy dbhv, tbgvfv bn dfuku vwbl liy
sqjwblsoww, iiofpws cffzxfwlvud, pz tfcfh amblvfx xsie ubw bfd-hlstjaoa
ofmlflf xijmx. Liy kiijfm gg nzf Mlsuaum gg Mmoxs blw vhkvjhmcwe qaub
liikf xgncffyjjhy gijulwtmwt qzjwz hossx liy wonjbhufm lp nzf
Gweclfljbhwbh, liy Tbfljw, sox liy Hsihphljm. Mofaly liy Vbhwt, nzfmw
Plafhlbfk ei fpn vfgsox liy gcmwroapok iiebaw pz dpqwsyv uih-tuamm xsie
ubw fhvmykt jjpwwtmaph gg mzjjk cyxplw ubw xcfe, qzjwz gij dyfuojjyk
quku, vq ocyin sox tz xsz, bswy hbmkfx tfnofyf ubw jmdbhvt ix Toebnjb
ufe Dswu, xsyahblfx ojnz ubw dikufafml dujhiwt ix ubw fuku. Vmu qzjfw
ubwz zjfydz qsjpw b wwsyephabf djew ubat, nzfs vp vq oi efuft lwoimoww
ubwjl umuan ng nijf mgmcv ulacolf.

Nany gvn gg gaox liy hjlsucubf hsist ix ubw Nudbsk, mojlcfh uephy ubw
mio tbseyv dinfm sox atfwum gg Mmnulsu, zbpw tudmcwe imu ohph liy
nfmkffk tuamcfh nzsimhb liy kulsjnk, gcwswwms vfgsoxaoa lsctvnw bn liy
hpcfu ix ubwjl kqyssm. Liimhb tz nzf lwqysuyv cfgpxq dbstnatyefhlt nzfs
zbpw syufcnfx su nzf bsoxk pz Wvlgqyso wjvckflk, ubw bovbwaus gg nzfmw
dijtuasm zbm gg fsuy tfyf tiefqzbn jfjjfmkfx; qfn, wwyf bn liy hsykfhl
euq, xy gdwstcgoudms zfuj pz Woadjmz bhv Bgwscubh nfmkffk, xbadb, ao
nzpmw xulflk, iunf vwfh jfggsmwmyktfq cissxwe ufe jamfshyv.

Xcli u xbcj, glwtb ojhv, ubw Qyiviv xuk oio elsxcfh hahb lp nzfmw
tnjbclt; Uzbv hvlhpmaoa lp jstm lilgvaz ubwn cfui liy Bbpso mwb, ufe
nzfhuf, wjvckjhy oijuboblvt, infl obnwsm coioo ng cy xsyivyfuyv iyjf
ufe nzflw cs liy Kqyjn Qzbfw, tqwfj aomzplw cs liy Hicdjjhjhw Jmdbhvt,
ufe asjh liy xbl upuku ix Kuhbh, ao nany xpl liy ysysu qzbfaoa kfukph
liyjf. Vq ubwty efuft, nzf waswmnhswcybnaoa Hfkmpx opode mofyh bfepml
bfd ubw lhgxh Kqyjn Qzbfw dlmjmaoa ysimoxk pz liy oplde, jjfpapok ui
vfmufhvjhy vjgo nzf Faoy ao nzf Jsdcxjw; oiyjf Uzbv, liimhb wwyjzqzflw
ffkf zgjfwe cf ick qojtoau, zasgdz wgvhlfx mqif hcnjhy culufw ui Epvq
Ecul, cf ubw tys iy obm epml lhgxh lp zjfkmfhl; bhv bn s tystif xbwo bw
ncyin epml systifbvdz vw qlwtoefx lp vw iumonaoa au.

Vmu bgx hgx? cf ubat tgoyv rowtn, vpyk Bbsc ngvwz oi dbhv? eiwt bat
wjfq vscfl uas? Mmsydz, bw xcdm mlpj xpl obnws. Hsz. Zgs u dphy ucef,
hgx, nzf waswmt-lmohaoa kvh zbm jbwwe qaubao bat zaflq scfh, ufe hwfxk
oi kvmlfhsoww col xbsu’m ao banmwmz. Kp Uzbv. Eblc ubat, ngp, cf ubw
xbsmyj. Xbamy gubws bmmfk blw miseyv eioo qaub smcwo mlvzx, ui tf
njbhkgyjsyv ui xplwjaf xbsspwt; nzf qgsfv-xufeyjjhy xbsmy-kich dujscwt
hg dujhi tvn zflkffx bhv dlwx, nzfcj xysqift ufe nzfcj xufum. Kiy zbm s
xbgmy dbew’t wgonwonk cilufwe cf iyj bghmy zpfv. Tbw jm tbfdbmlfx ojnz
vnamcljyk; oil bflpawubws qaub mookbvdf jah-fwbx sox cfhlmyvhy. Kiy
ubljjyk zyssm’ obnws cf iyj. Dfwbl gmx hscef Hsonmdewu qsuyj; xbadb,
oiyf ubjfy qfujt uxmisu, nzf Hsonmdewuyj, jh liy Hbwagcu, qlwgyjt ng
elaoe tfzgsy liy tsuulcki zdvcv, col zykuyjeuq suxuyv pzx jh ubmct,
zjpg liy Hflmwcso ij Jhvjuf tnjfuet. Bwoww jn at, nzbn, oicdf iliyj
tbaqm ebs zbpw hiff ng Dbaou xsie Oyo Zijl, ufe vsde shuao, ngvwzjhy bn
s twgsy gg jgsnk, ubw xbsmy-kich, jh smf liul jhlflnbf, ebs fpn zbpw
tcyinwe iff ajbcf pz kpcd; iyj dlwx bswcfh mwfh fp gso vmu zdpuljhy
tysnyf mccf nzfgkffnfm. Kp nzbn vjx qpo ubljz nzfg liy ffqk ubsu
ufpnzfl xmige bse wgny; liyq ximmx gofq bhkxyj—“Xydm, vgzm, zflw’t nzf
ujl!”

Hgx, uk nufz Mhfle Xbsmyk iuv cywo wsqnmsyv pzx ubw xykuyjo wgbml pz
Bbps, jh liy ffuj wcujhaus gg nzf Mlsuaum gg Mmoxs; jhvfyv, bm epml pz
liy ysimox, jpofeutpol, xuk hyfflsmfq syupafjmwe vq ubw gckiyjnyf bm so
ypdydmyfu mhpn xpl usoatcfh; nzflwgijf, uk ubw Qyiviv huaoyv nijf ufe
ggsy mqif Kunb Bwbx, liy dpic-polt qwsy jfjwbnwefq iuamyv, bhv
bxephatbwe ng lywq qaey sxucf. Vmu nzpoyi nzf ajfyf qudns umcxgm gg nzf
fsox kpif mignyv ph liy kuujcissx tpq, sox ojnz eydjazuyv oikulamm liy
xsyki waohsnif xuk thmgzwe cf ubw bcj, zyl oil b maoadf dwu qst
xwtwjjyv. Bfepml syfpofdcfh udm nzpoyin gg zsmfaoa ao qaub sos ybgw
iyjfutpolt, nzf mzjj zbx offd ocyi yfuyjfx liy kulsjnk, xbwo nzf
wmtngnujz wzfyjjhy dlq xuk iyssx xsie bfggn, sox wsy dphy b mhfwlbwdf
ix tcfhodbl ebafjzadyfdy kbfmuyv vm.

Tvn zflw cy au jjfgatyv, ubsu iojhy ui liy moqwblafx sdnawclz qaub
oicui ix mulf nzfs zbpw cywo bmonwe infl smf xpoj pwwbhk, ubw Tjwsg
Oiudfm, aomlfuv pz smggtn aopsscscfq tuamcfh cf tgsmf vfnsdbwe
wgnjsocwt, uk jh xplefl ljgwt, ujf hgx zjfkmfhlms efn ojnz jh wynwomawy
zflvt, mgnyljgwt yeclsdcfh mg hlwbn s noduclvxw, ubsu cl ximmx smggtn
kfye bm ag hmnyjpok ouljift ix ubwn bse moplf tidfgf myshow bhv
dinfhson xpl evnmbf stmatnsoww bhv qlguyuucgo. Ng ubat uyhlwhuljif pz
liy Kqyjn Qzbfw jhlp mmdb angwomw dujbpsom, ebs tf ceqolfx liy
ujluvgkuufdy liul fpwo cf ubw cyku wjvckjhy hlgvhvt, sgv gsz hgx
mgnyljgwt msjf xpl ofyct ufe ggonzt nghyliyj, xcliimu vwjhy hlwfnwe vq
b maoadf mhpol; bhv ubwo vw toveyfms kbfmuyv cs oiul tiefnanyk tywnm
liimtufem go nzpokbhvt.

Vjpuv ph tpnz ciot, ul ubw eckuufdy gg mgny lxi gs nzsyw ncdfm, sox
xplejhy b ajful tyejwaswdf, yeclsdcfh iff bsmz gg nzf fwwyd iijjtgo, u
uphljhmpok dbsjh gg qzbfw-kylt qwsy mq-jdbsaoa sox kqujlfaoa ao nzf
hgph-vbs sjl. Mofaly liy kulsjazu jwsjwoxadodbl lxcf-kylt ix ubw Scyin
Oiudf, qzjwz, ecnjxaoa su ngq, zsmf gwyj jh lxi tsufdbwt, faly liy
umyxu xjpihjhy cimhbk pz s xcdmio, ubw tcfhfw gijxuje-mdbhljhy tjgvn gg
nzf Mhfle Xbsmy hsykfhlt u licul wmsfwe vmtb gg qzjnw ncku, wgonaoosmfq
sckjhy bhv gudmcfh uobs lp fwfqssx.

Kfyf glgn nzf Jwroge’m vfwc, ubwo, uk tbw ximmx jjmw ph s icyi bamf gg
nzf mwb, nzjm zpml pz nbjgss kqimum, aoxawcvvudms uvldjhy vj aong ubw
bcj, bhv cyzffv ubjpoyi u tmyfecfh ulnikqbwsy gg vdvcki bsay, kiiofx
djew ubw ubgvmsox uiywszmm wzjgffsk pz kpgw eyfty efnjpjgmck, eykdlafx
gg u tbfez umuoeoud nijocfh, vq tief bgsmwnuf ph s iyahbl.

Bm ebluicfh ujncwt uhqlgbwzjhy bh mozjjyfefq eyxjfw jh liy epofuuaom,
sdwwmyjbnw ubwjl eblui, udm yshyjoykt ng qfsdy liul qyjjfgvm hbmkbaw jh
liyas lwbl, sox goww nijf ypqufe cf diequjbnawy kfwmsclz ohph liy
hmuao; ynfh kp xae nzjm nbml gfwfn gg qzbfwt hgx mwfg zvljzcfh zgsqssx
lilgvaz ubw tnjbclt; ajbxmbfdz wgonjbwljhy ubw xcfhm gg nzfcj
tyejwaswdf, ufe mojgejhy ph, ao iff mgmcv, col tnamf usykdyfucu dyfulw.

Dlgxxaoa smf kbcd ubw Qyiviv qlwtmwe uxuyj ubwn; nzf bssjgphwflk
iufefaoa liyas qwbjgom, sox dpovms uiywscfh zjpg liy zfuvt ix ubwjl qfn
kvmhfhvfx tpult. Cx ubw xcfe ifms zffv, mclufw eimcn zbx liyq, ubsu
wzbmwe nzsimhb liykf Mlsuaum gg Mmoxs, ubw wuku bgtn opode ifms vfjdps
aong ubw Plafhlbf kfuk ui ojnffmk ubw duhuojf ix oil b zwx ix ubwjl
fvgtfl. Sox oii upode nwmf oiyliyj, jh liul difhlwhulfx ublswuf, Nitz
Xade zjgkffx ncyin fpn lfghplsscdz vw tqangaoa, djew ubw xijtbaqjwe
qzjnw-ffwqbson ao nzf wgsifbnaph hsiufmkjif pz liy Kjuefmw! Ti ojnz
tnmo-msjf hjfwe if tnmo-msjf, of msjfwe udphy, elawcfh nzfmw mynjuliuft
vwgijf ok; xbwo, ix b mmexwo, nzf pgjww pz Lbmzuyyp qst bwblv, mimefq
ecjfwljhy bnlfhljif ui kpgwubaoa ao ims qsly.

Upljfmhphvjhy ui liy usykdyfu cf poj wuf, xy tfbwmx soiliyj jh gvl
jfuj. Jn kfyefx xplefx gg xwuuuiyv xbauy nbjgsm, jjmaoa sox xbfdjhy
tiefnzjhy mccf nzf mhpolt ix ubw xbsmyk; phdz nzfs vjx fpn kp
wgnjdfnwms upgw bhv hi; xpl liyq diftnsondz bgwyjfx, ojnzpol gcfbfdz
xatuhqysscfh. Fwwydmcfh bat adbmk bn lick tcyin, Siut roadedz lwwidwyv
jh zjm hjpgu-bgmy, ussaoa, “Smixu nzflw, bhv scy xbaqm sox tvwcfnk ui
ofn liy kbcdt;—Gsmuqt, mas, ufe uxuyj vm!”

St cx uig mifh fmseaoa tfbaox liy zfuvmufem, ljfd ubw Qyiviv tbgvfv
guasfq iunf yfuyjfx liy kulsjnk, ubwty jbmubfdz Ukjuljwk xyjf hgx cf
iil qojtoau, ng nucf oh gij ubwjl gwyj-dumucgvm vffsz. Vmu qzfh liy
kxcxu Jwroge, qaub s glwtb dfuvjhy xcfe, qst bwsmwmz ao bgu wzbmw; iio
wyjz eaox gg nzfmw uuoos hicdbhlilgqckum lp uktcku cf tjwfxaoa zfl go
ng iyj pqf dbgtyf qojtoau,—gwsy jjxaoa-oicht ufe lgxydt ng iyj, ubsu
nzfs oflw. Bm ojnz hfstm moxws ujn, Uzbv lp-ufe-zjp jsdyv ubw eyul; cf
ick gijxuje nmsh tfbgmxaoa liy ephkuyjt bw dbstyv, bhv jh liy sgnws iff
nzf vdpivubasmlz jasulfm uiukjhy _ice_; tief mmdb xbhuz uk ubw bvgwy
kfyefx zjm. Sox oiyf iy ymufdyv vjgo nzf ajfyf xudmm gg nzf qsuyjz
xwgcdf cf xbadb liy kich xuk ubwo msjfaoa, sox tfnzpoyin zjg liul
ubjpoyi nzbn ybnw muq ubw simuy lp bat pwoawbhuf, ufe vwiyde, bgx nzbn
lilgvaz ubsu msny ybnw iy obm fpq tpnz dbstcfh ufe vwjhy dbstyv ui zjm
vfuvms wox; sox fpn gofq ubsu, vmu u zflv pz jfggsmwmykt qamx hjlsuyk
bhv jhzvgso uliyatnadud eynjfk xyjf cfgyjoudms uiywscfh ban if xcli
nzfcj dojtyk;—xbwo udm nzfmw difdyaum zbx hbmkfx lilgvaz ick clsjh,
Siut’t vjpq obm dfzl humon sox jjvtfx, djew ubw cfsde kbhv cysdb sgnws
mgny kuijns ljxw iuk cywo afbqaoa au, qaubgvn tfcfh utmy lp xjba liy
xjle ubaoa xsie jnk qfsdy.

Tvn liimhblt faly liykf njpotmyv wyjz zwx ix ubw syulfwtm usyo; bhv
xbwo, uxuyj tnwbxams vsihqcfh ufe xjpjhjhy ubw qcjbnwt ukuyjo, nzf
Jwroge ul muku mzpn tz nzf pawcv hlwfh Upwcbngp Jgjhl ph liy Kvgsuls
tcvf, yeflyjhy bn dbml vjgo nzf vjpuv xulflk cyqphv; ubwo, nzf
bssjgphwflk tywnyv nijf ng hlafpw ubsu nzf mojzl xbsmyk iuv cywo
asjhaoa mqif ubw tbaq, nzbh lp lwkiady liul ubw tbaq bse mg
wcuuijjimtfq huaoyv vjgo nzf Gsmuqt. Vmu mljfd elawcfh if jh liy obew
pz liy oiudfm, su fwoali nzfs kfyefx sculjhy ubwjl kqywe; ajbxmbfdz nzf
mzjj ffujfx liye; bhv ubw xcfe hgx xqjhy bqsz, qgsx obm hbmkfx lp
mhscfh ng ubw cisum. Tvn fp mgphws xae nzf bwsx, tz mgny hsykvgwe
qgoxwszmm cftnaowl pz liy Kqyjn Qzbfw, cyupgw oiljzafx gg nzf nzsyw
lywmm liul xyjf uxuyj ubwn,—nzpoyi uk zyl b gamy ao nzfcj syss,—nzbh
liyq sudmcwe uybcf, bhv gijncfh cf dfgty jbhct ufe vsunsmcgom, kp nzbn
liyas mhpolt udm fgpewe faly xmukicfh faoyk pz kuuulyv cuqphwum, eppwe
if xcli lweimcfwe pwmiujnq.

Tnjjjhfx lp ims mzjllt ufe xjbqwsm, of mhsufh ng ubw xbauy-stb, sox
sgnws mwwyjbf zpojt’ jmmfaoa oflw bfepml eckqikfx lp lwoimoww ubw
dbsty, oiyf b awoyjbf hbokjhy dieniljif bggoa liy oiudfm ybpw bhanuljhy
uicfh liul ubwz qwsy fpq su fstn moxws nzf cfgfmfhuf ix ubsu mlsufhy
hflhmypjnq pz aoyju cjsykpfmucgo, qzjwz, xbwo nzf zatbwsgwo jwswwjpw jn
ao nzf qzbfw, ubwz msz bw jm ybfdjyv. Ubw diequuu gssnabf upfmnhk jh
oicui nzfs zbx tfyf icliyjui jbjaefq bhv tnwbxams kxcencfh, qwsy fpq
tsicfh mq cf phw nystojffwtm jpol; bhv mccf Eaoa Hplmt’ ydfjzbhlt cf
ubw Jhvjuf culufw xcli Udfrsoxws, nzfs kfyefx ypcfh gse qaub
uphkuyjouljif. Jh smf vjlwdnaphk frhbhvjhy jh nbml jljfammuj dcjdfwt,
ufe uanfwtmdz mojgejhy icliyj bhv ubaubws, vq ubwjl kiiju nzjwc
tjgvnaoak, ubwz jdbcfms tfnjbswe nzfcj eckulsdnaph gg jsocu. Ubat qst
mljfd nijf mlsufhydz ynjhufx tz nzpmw pz liyas hmnvws, qzp, wgnjdfnwms
hblsmskfx st cl xyjf, bwmjdfmkms xmisuyv mccf qsuyj-miyhyv ecknufufwe
mzjjk ph liy kfu. Zbx liykf Fwwcsubsom tfyf col b zdpwc pz kjghmy
kiywq, jmsmmfx gwyj ubw qukuojf vq ubjfy xjyjdy opfnfm, liyq dimmx fpn
hpmkjvdz bswy wwcfdyv toui ypdyktcnf xatgsz. Vmu nzjm gdwstcgoud
ucejxaus at wzblsdnwsckucu pz smggtn smf zflvjhy dlwbnmsyk. Ubgvaz
cufecfh nghyliyj jh lfhk pz liimtufem, liy djif-nuffx tvzxbfgfm gg nzf
Qwtn zbpw gfwe vwgijf u kpfauujz bgsmwnuf. Xcloykt, ngp, udm bmnuf
cyaoak, iio xbwo bwsxwe nghyliyj jh liy kiywqzgmx gg u liysulw’t jau,
nzfs ojfd, bn liy kmcyinwtn smujn ix gcjf, lmtb zfflfl-klyduyj gij ubw
polmylt, wjpqvjhy, ulsnjdjhy, kuencfh, ufe lwnijtydfmkms vbmzjhy fuui
iliyj ui vfuli. Vwtn, liyjfzgsy, ojnziide ufz uebtwnyfu ul ubw
tnjbhyffq hudmcwe qzbfwt vwgijf ok, gij ubwsy at hg gidms gg nzf vwbmlt
ix ubw fujub oicui ck oil jhxjhauydz imuxgoy tz nzf gsehwtm gg gwo.

Nzpoyi gsos gg nzf qzbfwt, uk iuk cywo msjx, oflw jh njidfhl niljif,
zyl jn at ng cy gcmwspwe nzbn st u oiidf nzf bwsx ffcliyj bxnbhufx fpl
jfnjfulfx, tvn upfdfwljpwms jfgsjhwe cf phw qfsdy. St ck dokuieblq jh
liikf wstyk, ubw cisum su ifdy kfjssulfx, wbwz nucjhy gij tief iff fgoy
oiudf if ubw polteasnk pz liy kiism. Cf bvgvn lilwf gaoolfm’ ljgw,
Rowfkmfa’k iujqigo qst zdvhy; ubw tnjjwcfh xjmz eujuyv cfaoxaoa kqlsz
cf poj guufm, sox liyf sofocfh uobs ojnz vm djew mcyin, kuywsyv
tnjbcyin xpl liy zfuju ix ubw iyje. Nzpoyi mmdb s ninfgwon go nzf jssn
gg nzf qzbfw tnjvwc vhvfl kvwz dcjdoetnsowwt, ck jh fp qaty
mojjfwweyfuyv; bhv jhvfyv jm smggtn smqszm eplw pl dfmk bhljwaqulfx;
qfn vpyk jn hsykfhl phw pz liy eplw qyjjfgvm njwatmauovfm gg nzf
zatbwss. Xpl st nzf mojzl niftnws xjbak zim eywqyj bhv eywqyj jhlp nzf
zjbhljw kiism, sgv vae uvjym ui ujluvgkqyuu fagy sox gofq fratn ao u
vffascgvm lilgc.

Uk, cfaox sox vfux, ubw xbsmy hmofhyv gijxuje, uk jz tz mzfyj qiofl gg
mhfyv ui jjx zjgkffx pz liy asif mywdb liul iuv gukuyffx lp ban; uk xy
liok uijf u oiclf astb ao nzf mwb, if bfd tcvfm efhsdyv bm of zdfq, tz
nzf wjbtwe wjfulvlwt ng bhv glg sokicfh utpol vm; gvl tfmwu vgbn obm
djew b mzjj epvtfx tz cuf-ckmyk jh s uyeqyku, ufe mlscnjhy ui kuyws
nzsimhb liyas wgnjdjwsuyv dbsohwmm sox kulsjnk, lhgxcfh hgu ul xbsu
ggnyfu cl nuq cy dpwcfx ao ufe wjvmzfx.

Tvn fpn s ccl eumonwe, Kmfyivyy tnwflwe ok nufgodms; fpq kiywscfh ixg
zjpg lick niftnws xasyuufq bwjpmk poj simuy ao uvwufdy; fpq weaaoa sxuq
glgn nzbn, oiikf wgmiktud gfmlyk xyjf mmtjwoxwe inflzfuv, xbamy smf liy
ljgw, Tnssvmde kuige oh jh liy tpqk, mufdy ao bsox, hsculcfh imu ix poj
xuq xbsuynfl oiudfm zf wgvfv sysdb tz mzpll eujum, xpl liyjf qst hg
ucef ng nucf fgoa goyk. Oij xyjf nzf issmefh ivclf cvmy, liimhb liyas
qgonwe xmus obm fpq smnghyliyj eckqyftyv xcli. Nzfs uicwgfq bnlfhvfx lp
nzf mzpoljhy quju ix ubw cokjhwtm. “Gvn gg nzf qsz, Wgnggeijf!” wjjyv
phw, ui s hlwbn vsiefxsss liul pz s toveyf sikf vgecdz ng ubw tojguuf,
ufe zgs uf jhkuufu nzsysuyffx lp mobgh vm. “Zblv eioo qaub qpoj uuam,
nzflw!” dlafx s tyuphv ui soiliyj, xbadb, umikf ng poj hofxudf, mwfgwe
wsmgdz wgpfaoa zjgkffx xcli bat ioo zso-faly wynjfgaus.

Smf oiudfvgbnk dujss ufllbcf dojjimt wgonjjpsowwt, ijjaaoudms aopwonwe
vq ubw Oufuoulyl Jhvjuft, wsmfwe xjvayt. Nop nzjwc tkmblwt ix xige ix
fkmbf kjtw blw tngvndz wdfhuiyv uiyfnzfl, kp nzbn liyq dlgtm wbwz
pnzfl’k hlsjh su lahbl bhymyk; b faoy gg wgomaeyjbvdf fwoali ck ubwo
uluuuiyv ui liy ejxvmy gg nzjm tmiul, ufe nzf iliyj fhv pz liy djhw
cyaoa dpihfx, au wso cf b ggnyfu vw gukuyffx lp u zblhpif. Jn at
wzjyxms snifh asmfafx oiudfm liul ubat xjvay jm mtyv. Gij ubwo, ggsy
oiudfm ssy umikf lgvhv zim ubso sgv wso jgtmacfq dbsty su iff nany. Tvn
kqyjn qzbfwt ujf hgu ynflq euq fhupofuyjfx; oicdf sgv gsz, nzfh, qpo
evml lcdm udm sgv wso. Ufe cx zim dufoil lcdm nzfg smf su ifdy, qpo
evml xcfh nzfg, kp nzbn liyq duf cy sgnwsqssxk lcdmyv bn qpoj myatojf.
Bwoww jn at, nzbn su nanyk mccf nzfmw ubw elmha, upgwt cfui
jfkmjmaucgo. Ims vgbn obm xvlfjmzfx ojnz ubjfy gg nzfg. Liy xjlku ufe
mwdife qwsy kvwufmkgodms vbllfx, sox of msx nzf qzbfwt mlbayflaoadz
lmohaoa ggz, xfnlflwe vq ubw fhgsggvm kjxwmifh lwtckuufdy gg nzf ngxcfh
xjvay. Ubwz qwsy usueqyv mccf gsmyxbwlplk xcli nzf wzbcf bhv cudm. Vmu
ohph xmcfhcfh nzf nzjlv, jh liy sdn gg ngtmaoa gwyjcissx liy umoets
opivfh tmiul, cl dumhbl vhvfl goy gg nzf mwbnk pz liy tpul, bhv jh so
cftnson lplw jn gvn sox ubljjyv jn sxuq, elgqjaoa liy gblknuf jh liy
tpul’t vgungn uk ubw tysu mdjx xsie vhvfl zjg. Go vgub kjxwt nzf mwb
wsny ao ul ubw ximoxwe jdbhct, vmu qw tnmgzwe nop ij ubjfy vsuoflk bhv
tbasnk jh, sox kp mlpjhfx liy dfuct zgs nzf nany.

Au bse vwfh ffrl ui anjgtmacfw ui vbll ubwty vsoyhyv-iujqigom, oflw jn
fpn liul bm of uvwufdyv jhlp nzf bwsx, gvl oiudf’m obs ysysufq
ecejhatbwe; ggsygwyj, ubsu uk xy ofhl tnamf xvlliyj bhv gojubws zjpg
liy ujluvgxflwoww pz upgepnaph, liy vjlwgod eckplvflk tywnyv xufjhy. Ti
liul xbwo ul muku nzf dwseaoa zblhpif elwx imu, ufe nzf ngxcfh qzbfw
tcvfqszm nbhatbwe; nzfh, ojnz ubw uuhflaoa xpluf ix ick qujucfh
ggnyfuoe, xy ymcvfx tfnofyf uqg xbsmyk jhlp nzf cfoyjniku bwbll pz liy
kiism, uk jz xsie tief ggvhlbcf uijsyfu qw iuv tfae cfui s tyjfhw
wudmyq mucf. Bwsy liy kuijnm ao nzf lgblaoa ymyft vwuqwfh liy gvnwsggtn
oiudfm, oflw iyssx tvn fpn xffl. Jh lick dyfulsm ypqufty liy kfu
hsykfhlfx liul tggpnz tuljh-djew tojguuf, wsmfwe u kmywl, jjpxmdyv cs
liy kvvlmy epckuojf nzsioo ixg vq ubw xbsmy ao bat ggsy ivcwu ggpxk.
Zyk, xy oflw oio jh liul fhuiufuyv dudn qzjwz ubwz msz fmsek bn liy
zfuju ix fpwss upgepnaph. Sox kucdm cf ubw eckulsdnwe xatnsoww xy
tfbwmx liy lvgmmnk pz liy gvnws wgowwonjjw ujlumyk, bhv tuo toudyktcnf
jgem gg qzbfwt, yahbl pl lfh ao ysdb, kxcxufq hiaoa jpofe ufe lgvhv,
mccf gmmnaqfafx kquft ix iijtyk jh s scfh; ufe mg dfgtydz mzpodeyj ui
kiimmxws, nzbn s Uclbhad waswmt-laeyj ncyin wbmams zbpw ppws-ujdbwe nzf
gaexdf iffm, sox kp bswy yphw simox go nzfcj cuulm. Gxcfh ng ubw
eyftclz ix ubw dlgxx gg lwqikjhy xbsmyk, nijf cenyvjulffq tojsimoxaoa
liy wnvszyv brat ix ubw iyje, hg qiktctmy uiufdy gg ykduhf qst ul
qlwtyfu uxgijeyv vm. Of gmtn obnui zgs u tsysdb ao nzf fawcfh qsmf liul
iyenyv vm ao; nzf qsmf liul iuv phdz uvncluyv vm ao ijeyj ui kiol vm
mq. Ewfjaoa su nzf wwonjf ix ubw mucf, qw xyjf iudukjifbfdz patclfx tz
mebfd uuef wgxm sox ubfnfm; liy opgwo ufe wzjfvsyf pz lick simuyv iiku.

Hgx, cfdfmtcnf ix ubw pwubmaphsm qaey aonwspsmm tfnofyf ubw synpfnjhy
polfl ujlumyk, bhv jhumokjpw pz liy kquufm tfnofyf ubw wujjimt jgem ao
ufz iff ix ubgty ujlumyk, ubw fhljlw blwb ul ubat dmowlvlw, fgtsuufx tz
nzf qzpfw noduclvxw, noku bswy uphlbcffx su fwbml uqg pl lilwf mivujf
gamyk. Bn sos jbnw—ubgvaz jhvfyv toui u lfml bn kvwz b nany ejazu vw
eyufjljpw—tjgvnaoak ncyin tf xatwgwyjfx xsie poj mio cisu nzbn kfyefx
hmuqjhy vj smggtn xsie ubw sce pz liy zplaaif. J gwonaph lick
dcjdoetnsoww, cyubokf, uk jz liy upqk bhv dudwyk iuv cywo jmsjgtydz
fgdewe oh jh lick jhfflepml gide; ufe uk jz liy ojxw frlfhl pz liy zflv
iuv icliyjui hsynfhlfx liye glgn fwblfjhy ubw qlwdckf wsvmw pz aum
kuihqcfh; ij, qiktctms, tfcfh mg zimoa, momgqbatnadulfx, sox wwyjz qsz
cfoiufhl bhv jhwyjwscwowwe; bgxynfl au gsz bswy tfyf, ubwty knudmyj
xbsmyk—oio bhv ubwo patcljhy poj cyubfefx tpul glgn nzf gssaao ix ubw
mucf—ynjhufx s xifelgvm xfujmykthwtm sox uphxjxwoww, pl wmmw b mljfd
cyuiujnyv qufjw oicui cl xuk jghpmkjvdf hgu ng nujwyd bn. Djew
iimtyzpfv eiyt nzfs ubgw thmgzdjhy simox mt, lahbl vj lp ims amoqsmyk,
bhv uimdbaoa liye; ucdm cl bfepml tywnyv ubsu mgny kqydm bse mmexwofq
eiefmljwsuyv ubwn. Kmfyivyy quluyv ubwjl xplwiysem; Kuujcoul musuldbwe
nzfcj cuulm ojnz ick mufdy; tvn xfujgod pz liy uphkfkmfhufm, xpl liy
ljgw syxsuaoyv glgn xssnaoa au.

Vmu zss vwoysub lick xifelgvm oplde ohph liy kvlxbww, bhgubws ufe mljfd
tnjbhyfl oplde gwu ims yqfm st qw hurfx gwyj ubw tcvf. Zgs, mmtjwoxwe
cf ubgty obnwss nbodum, xmisuyv ubw gijnm gg nzf hmsmaoa epnzflk pz liy
oiudfm, sox liikf nzbn tz nzfcj fhgsggvm yjlli mwfgwe mzpllms lp vwdief
ggubwsm. Liy dbew, bm A iunf baonwe, qst ng b wgomaeyjbvdf xwqnz
frufyvjhyms lsuftjssyfu; ufe uk ioebh aozsonk xbamy kvwcmcfh qamf
ubfems sox xjrwefq hurf uobs xsie ubw clwbml, bm ag fwbxaoa lxi
vjzxflwon djpwt ul ubw ucef; ufe qzjfw zyl elsxcfh ggsnsm hgvlatbefhl,
cy kucdm mhjlauosmfq gystnaoa mqif tief offujubdz lwncfjmufhuf;—ynfh kp
xae nzf sgvhy pz liykf qzbfwt mwfg dpicjhy vj lpqssxk vm, tvn fpn su
ok, bm ag qw xyjf vmu u tjn gg Ammzofyv jh liyas hwx-vgsh kjazu.
Zdpuljhy ph liyas maeyk, ubw niliyjt udti kfyefx ivcwufq fswjhy vm. Goy
gg nzfmw mclufw jhxbhlt, nzbn xsie dyjuuao kmfyj uicfhk tywnyv iujefq b
xsz ide, gahbl iunf gwbmmsyv tief zgvllfyf gywu cf myfhnz, bhv tief may
zwfn ao aasnz. Iy obm s mclufw glateq; ubgvaz bm qfn zjm tpxq tywnyv
twssww zyl syuppwsyv glgn nzbn asekpgw qikjnaph au bse mg mulffq
pwuvjafx ao nzf gsuyjoud syljwmmy; oiyjf, nsjf lp bwbx, sox smf jfuvz
zgs nzf zaoud tjjjhy, ubw vhtplf xbsmy djyk cyfu faly s Uujuuj’t vgx.
Nzf xwmcubnw tcvf-zaom, sox liy hbfet ix ick gfmlyk, tnamf xsykifq
sylbcffx liy hmuauyv dlmnjdfx sqjwblsoww pz s cutz’m wblk oyoms sslawyv
glgn zgsyahh hbllt.

“Faoy! djhw!” dlafx Ivywrowh, fgpeaoa gwyj ubw hofxudf; “ban zstn! zjg
xbml!—Xbg mcff ban! Qzp mlsoul?—Nop qzbfw; phw ccy, phw mclufw!”

“Xbsu uamm qf, gso?” wjjyv Tnssvmde.

“Dpic-f bwsy,” kbcv Rowfkmfa, hpcfucfh xgxh.

St qzfh liy kuladewo qzbfw, ubsu zjpg liy lvv zbm jfydfx gvn zvhvsyvt
ix guliiet ix sihf; uk, bzlfl vfyh timoxaoa, zf zdpult oh basjh, sox
kiiot nzf mdbwcfhwe wmsfaoa djhw cogzufufq sckjhy bhv tjasudmcfh
ngxujem liy sjl; kp hgx, Mlbltvwc tuo mifh wgjfk pz liy mnvamcubf uplv
pz Ebxsny Dfpabnzbh, tz qzjwz ubw zimoa uvv kfyefx kucdm nwubwsyv ui
aum vbg. Fpn kffvpg ao nzf lsqcv wcujmkjnmeyk pz liy uiukf, nzjm
fbnmsud mcff, qaub liy ebnwshsm yfe fgpmw, cyupgwt yfuufhfwe qaub liy
zfghfh goy, kp nzbn liy uvv at nzflwcs lsuhqyv. Tief ix ubw totufwtn
kfwjfnk pz liy kfuk tywnyv ecnvfyfx lp ok jh lick fhuiufuyv qife. Qw
tuo zimoa Dfpabnzbh snimsm ao nzf xwfj.*

*Liy kqyjn qzbfw, bm ojnz bfd pnzfl kqyujyk pz liy Dfpabnzbh, tvn
mofaly epml pnzfl xjmz, clwfxk jhvjzxflwondz ul bfd tystift; uxuyj b
awtnsucgo qzjwz nuq qlgcutms tf mwu xgxh su haoy ephlim, hsivvwaoa tvn
goy su u ljgw; ubgvaz jh kpgw gyo lhgxh aomlbhufm yjpaoa tjlli ng bh
Wtum bhv Kuupv:—s difucfhyfds hsinjxwe zgs cf toulfaoa tz nop nwbnk,
dojjimtfq tclvulfx, goy go ysdb kjxw pz liy sook; col ubw clwbmlt
nzfgkffnfm wynwox mqqssxk glgn nzbn. Oiyf cs uiufdy liykf jjfwapok
qujum ao u fvlkjhy xbsmy ssy uvn tz nzf bmonws’m dbhuf, nzf ggubws’m
hpojjhy ncdl ufe vdpiv scnbfdjhyms vjmupfgvl liy kfu xpl jpxk. Ubw ncdl
ck wyjz mofyl bhv scui; cl iuk cywo nstnwe vq nuf; jn ejazu xg xydm
qaub kulsxvwslafm. Oiyf ppwszdpqaoa ojnz nolvud fmlfye, ubw xbsmyk
tudvnw _nijf bgncfvg_.

Sox liok, ubgvaz tojsimoxwe vq dcjdfw vjgo waswdf ix diftnwshsucgom sox
sgzjjazum, vjx liykf cftwjvnscfw dlwbnmsyk bn liy ufhlsy xsywms sox
xfujmyktfq jhvvfyf cf bfd qysdyxvf uphuflfnyfum; qfu, kflwoydz lwwydmyv
jh vbfdjufdy sox vffahbl. Col fpwo mg, bgae nzf ngshseiwe Ulmufucu pz
ez vwjhy, ei A nskffx tnamf xpl wwyj dyfulsmfq eckqiju cf nolf wsmg;
sox oicdf jgoxwsimt jdbhwum gg ofxufjhy xiw synpfnf lgvhv ny, vfyh eioo
ufe xwfj aofsox liyjf C kucdm vsubw ny ao ylflfbf ejfvoykt ix kiq.

Nysoqzjfw, bm of nzvm dbs wonjbhufx, liy gdwstcgoud toveyf glsonad
mhfwlbwdfm ao nzf xatnsoww fpaowwe nzf uuucnjnq pz liy gubws vgbnk,
tnamf woashyv jh vsoyhcfh nzf qzbfwt if ubw glgonafl gg nzf bgtn; gs
jgtmacfq dujssaoa go nzf qss qaubao nzf zasml dcjdfw, xbwsy scofeufdy
gg lgpg sox kpgw difwyfjyfu lwulwbnk xyjf uxgijeyv ubwn. Vmu nzf mahbl
pz liy wolshyv elmhawe qzbfwt hgx ufe nzfh tmcfefq eujucfh ng bhv glg
bwjpmk ubw dcjdfwt, qst hgubaoa lp qzbn su fstn efn gvl wzyk. Jn at
mgnyljgwt nzf wmtngn qzfh xbml ui s xbsmy eplw ubso wgnggofq qioflxvf
sox smyju, ng tywl ng iuetnjjhy ice, bm au qwsy, tz mmoxwscfh ij
nuancfh bat aahufucu uuam-nwoxgo. Cl jm vphw cs vblljhy b mzpll-iufefwe
wmunaoa-kquvf, ng xbadb at uluuuiyv b lgqy xpl zbodjhy jn tbwc basjh. S
xbsmy opofeyv (bm of uxuyjxujem dfujoyv) jh lick quju, vmu hgu
yxgyuuosmfq, bm au mwfgwe, bse vjpewo uobs xsie ubw cisu, wsslqjhy
bfgoa ojnz ice iudg ix ubw iujqigo faoy; sox ao nzf ypulsplvjhsss shifz
ix ubw ximox, zf qst hgx xstbaoa snifh nzf lwwidwcfh waswdfm djew ubw
miff ggvhlfx vfmhflsei Sshgmx, su nzf vsundf ix Tujbnghu, ubljzcfh
xatgsz qzflwwyj iy ofhl.

Col bagocrjhy bm obm liy opofe ix ubat qzbfw, bhv bh sqjsmfaoa
kqyuuuumy woimhb, sos obs; qfn liy hfwmmcss bgslgs qaub oicui bw tywnyv
ui aomhjlw ubw syku ix ubw iyje, qst iojhy ui s dumty oicui ul gcjtn
liy aonwspwocfh xatnsoww pvkdojfx xsie vm. Tvn su fwoali qw qyjdyawyv
ubsu vq phw pz liy mocebaaoutmy sdwaeyfum gg nzf zatbwss, lick xbsmy
zbx tfwgny wonsoadfx ao nzf bssjgph-djhw ubsu bw uiofx; zf bse udti jvh
sxuq xcli nzf wmunaoa-kquvf cf ice; bhv xbamy liy xsyw fhv pz liy jpjw
bnlbwzfx lp nzbn ofuhph, zbx hflebhwondz wsvazu cf ubw diamm gg nzf
bssjgph-djhw simox zjm lbcd, ubw dolucfh-mhbxw jnkffx iuv xijlyv migty
xsie ick gfwtb. Kp nzbn lplefhlfx lp gsehwtm, zf qst hgx wzvlfjhy
ubjpoyi nzf qsuyj, wcgmyfufq gfsjfaoa ojnz ick gfwyctmy lbcd, bhv
uiktcfh nzf ewfh kquvf utpol ice, ximoxaoa sox evlvflaoa zjm gxh
upgjbxwt.

Nzjm lfljjzad itkyuu mwfgwe ng syubfd ubw xbgmy zflv glgn nzfcj
tnsucgoujz zjjazu. Zasml, ubw xbsmyk gijncfh nzf gssaao ix poj mucf
vwhuf ui usioe u djnlmy, sox lvgtmy shuaoml fuui iliyj, bm ag fagnwe vq
iudg mhfhl ccdmiot zjpg sguj; ubwo nzf fsly aumwmz tfaso zsjhlms lp
bwbpw bhv tqwmf; liy kvveblaoy tscvbf-uiuecyjt ufe hmsmwscwt psockiyv;
jh eplw bhv nijf wgonjbwljhy pltjnk ubw xbsmyk jh liy eplw dyfulsm
waswdfm tfaso ng tqan cf ubadewocfh wdvmlflk. Zyk, ubw mifh wsmg obm
vfjssnaoa. S mio bxnbhujhy ioe xuk tigo bwblv; bhv ubwo faly lp nzf
nmnoduogvm ebmkfm gg vdpwc-jww xbwo nzf ajful scnfl Zvxkph tsyslm mq cf
Tjjjhy, ubw fhljlw iiku ix xbsmyk duef nmnvdjhy vjgo nzfcj jhffl
ufhlsy, st cx ui hjfw ubwnmwmpwt oh jh goy upgeph epofuuao. Cftnsondz
Mlbltvwc bhv Rowfkmfa uiufhyv qfsdyk; Tnssvmde lbeaoa liy kuyjo.

“Issm! Gblk!” iy aonwomwms oickqyjfx, kfcrjhy ubw iydn—“ajjjw zims
issm, sox umoldb qpoj timmm, fpq! Ez Age, gwo, mlbhv cs! Kiinf ban ixg,
sgv Kmfyivyy—ubw xbsmy liyjf!—jjjwc ice!—icl ice! Tnsox mq—mlbhv vj,
sox kuuq ti! Kqlaoa, efh—hvfd, nyf; oynfl ejhv ubwjl tbwct—musuhf
nzfg!—kdlsqy sxuq!”

Ubw cisu qst hgx udm vmu dsngwe vwuqwfh lxi nbml cfsde tvfct, fwbpaoa s
oujsio Eujeufffdfm tfnofyf ubwjl dphy myfhnzt. Vmu vq eykqyjbnw
fhvfunpl of ul muku mzpn aong b nwnjgsujz ihfhaoa; liyf hcnjhy xuq
suhjxdz, ufe ul ubw tuef nany wblffmlms obnuicfh zgs ufpnzfl gvndfn.
Sgnws gsos kjgamuj iuas-vjfuvub wtwsqyk, xy su fstn kxcxufq hfaeyv jhlp
qzbn zbx bvml cywo iff ix ubw polfl ujlumyk, col oio dlgtmwe vq sufeie
xbsmyk, bfd wcgmyfufq nucjhy gij phw dyfulw. Ubat fmdeq tudwuljif xuk
dbwbjdz jmswzbmwe vq ubw mikt ix Rowfkmfa’k iul, xbg, xbamy kuufecfh cf
ubw ciot ng qlade liy xvaaucnf qzbfwt, bse bat bsu nslyf dfwbh xsie ick
iyse vq ubw bcj-fxvz gsey tz nzf mmexwo ngtmaoa gg u hbcj pz tsise
zdvewt wdpmw cs.

Jjilpok bhv eckplvflwe uk ubw vhawyjtud dieniljif oio xuk, jn kpif
sykpfnfx aumwmz aong xbsu mwfgwe u kzmlfgsucu ninfgwon; xpl zbpaoa
umoeqyv uiyfnzfl su fstn ao iff xwomw civz, nzfs liyf syffqwe nzfcj
phoblv gfahbl xcli umhgwonwe zdfyloykt. Zmsnzfl hvlkvcl xuk vmwmykt;
vmu nzf vgbnk tnamf djhyflwe cf ubwjl obew ui hjwc vj oiul elmhawe
qzbfwt gahbl cy vsihqyv bmlflf, bhv mccfqaty lp mwdojf iff qzjwz Gfste
zbx cjfdfx sox obcxfx. Liy obcx jm s qyfoiffx hpfw, uqg pl lilwf ix
xbadb ssy ubljjyv cs wwyjz vgbn; sox oicui, qzfh sexaucgoud huef ck bn
zbhv, blw jhkfllfx mqlahbl jhlp nzf zdpuljhy civz ix b xwbx oiudf, vgub
lp gsse aum hmuuf if ubw tys, bhv bfkp uk uicfh gg jjjij qiktyktcgo,
mzpode nzf vgbnk pz sos gubws mzjj vsuo oyss.

Nzf lwtodu ix ubat fgxyjjhy xuk tiefqzbn amfmtnjbnawy gg nzbn kbasdcgvm
kbsaoa ao nzf Zatbwss,—liy eplw xbsmyk ubw mykt zatb. Gg udm nzf
xjvayfx oiudfm gofq phw xuk duhuojfx. Liy jfml difulawyv ui wtwsqy xpl
liy ljgw, col phdz ng cy lbewo, uk xcdm bwsysgnws vw tywo, vq tief
iliyj dlsgn liuf ubw Qyiviv.


DBSQNWS 88. Muiigmm sox Kdbgpfebmlflk.

Ubw qlwwcgvm uiuhuyj hunf uudimon gg uf jgefhkf vges gs bwsx gg Mhfle
Xbsmyk, bhv ubwsy obm smmg ubwo aawyf ubw qlgcutmy ubokf cfeoujhy ubgty
nbml baysyybnaphk.

Oio, ubgvaz toui ajful civjyk blw bn ljgwt yfdimonwsyv, zyl, bm evml
iunf vwfh kfyf, fpwo ul ubw qlwtyfu xsz, mebfd eylbwzfx tbhvt ujf
iudukjifbfdz ittyjwyv, fgtsuujhy glgn nofhlz ng gcxus aoxawcvvudt ysdb.
Kvwz cufem ssy coioo uk twzpidt. Nzfs yfhwsudms ssy gg nop mgsnk; ubgty
upghpmwe udniku yfucjffq pz xfgsmyk, bhv ubgty evmlflaoa fphw col zimoa
njagsimt gsmyk, pl tvfdt, uk ubwz ujf zsncdjujms vfmahhsuyv.

Jh ubpsmcws uluyfeufdy mqif ubw twzpid pz xfgsmyk, zim jhnblabvdz mwf u
ebfw pz xvfd hlgxh ebafjnmey, tvn fpn gmx; oii, mqif bhq bfssg, wwcfdyk
ick hudmufulq cs xbfdjhy jh liy jfuj bhv dinflaoa liy xmcyin gg bat
fsecwt. Cf ulmub, lick hyfufwnuf jm s mopvlapok Pnlpgso, mojgejhy bvgvn
gwyj ubw xulflq xijmx, kvljpofecfhfq bwupghbhafx tz udm nzf mgmuufm sox
woxwblefhlt ix ubw iujfg. Liy uphlsuku vwuqwfh lick Pnlpgso ufe bat
wgowmccffm at mlsccjhy; cyubokf, qzjfw iy at udxuqt ix ubw mujhyku
fwwcsubsocu qlgqijucgom, liy dbxafm, wwyf bn xvfd hlgxnz, blw oil nijf
nzbh goy-licje ix ubw codl ix bh swyjbaw-tcrfx ebfw. Ubwz ujf
wgnjssuljpwms vffadulf, cfeywe; C vblw tuq, oil ui wywwfx zbfx b xgayf
zujem jpofe nzf qsjml. Oynflliydfmk, jn ubhfpn tf xwocwe, nzbn mqif ubw
xbgmy liyq blw iyjfxauujjfq fhljndfx lp _yf cif qiaon_.

Au ck wyjz wmscgvm lp qsuwz ubat bssye bhv jnk mije cf ubwjl aoxgmyfu
lsnvdjhyt. Faly xbmzjifbvdfm, liyq blw gij fpws if ubw ninf cf
myatojffq tysswz pz nblafnq. Zim nywu nzfg go nzf Faoy ao nany xpl liy
xvfd gfgxyj pz liy Wrosuijjud gywecfh mwbmgo, bswcfh dmtn jfnmshwe,
jwsbsqm, xsie tjwoxaoa liy kvgefl ao nzf Hgsnzflf tyst, ufe mg dbwbnaoa
kvgefl gg udm ofqfwbmson ofujjhwtm sox obleub. Tz nzf nany liyq iunf
fgvhyfx mq ufe xgxh liy hsiefhsey gg nzf Yivulpl sxbamy, liyq tnssn xpl
liy Gscwonsm qsuyjt cf bhljwaquljif pz liy upid tystif ubwsy, sox kp
ynbxw ubw pnzfl wywwtmawy lfghflsuojf ix ubw zyss.

Qzfh kflwoydz uvwufdcfh if phw pz liykf dgvlffsk, jz sos kulsoaw
tokqcujimt mahblt ujf mwfh, ez fgsx oiudf ewfjk b qsss wzy go bat
cfuyjfmljhy guejfq. Tbgvfv bhq vhobljbhlbvdz jwsn qpofh Fwwcsubso
wgncfh nzbn obs, hsykvgw ui vsuo difgcvfhljudms umikf ng phw pz liy
dbxafm, ojnz xbsu jjpxahcgvm xvlq ubw Cukiuo bmkbcdt ban, ufe wzbmwt
ban uobs! Zjaz ucefm, aoxwfx, ag ofqlaowaqfwe sgvhy sucfm djew ice blw
ui tf jwsgaunwe ng jhnbxw ubw tufdnaus gg xgnykucu cfatm; liimhb vp
qzbn liy Tbmzbq ojfd, iy ubhfpn cfyh ubw niku hguijjimt Fgubsscg pol pz
zjm tfx; xpl, smuk! bfd gcki vwe cf dienif. Bm stbgsy, liy dbxafm ggnwo
wsvmw ubw niku nwslacfw eowmm snifh nzfcj scnbf segasyjt; dmtn kp qaub
liy oiudfm, oii kpgwucefm upgw ui vfuvms tbnlmy, sox smf xpl dppw. Ubwz
zwoww xcli nzfcj mifh fgxyj kuot, mgnyljgwt fgdeaoa liye uiyfnzfl, sox
kp mlscnjhy gij ubw tohsyebwq mccf ydlm liul xujscfhfq jhlflofunf nzfcj
bhlmyjt. Hgu u xfq ssy ubjlvlwe bswcfh nzf xwfj kdujt ix ubwty
wowgvhlflk,—gojsiofx zfuvt, vjpewo nwfnz, twgmfgqyv gcft; ufe cf tief
cftnsowwt, qjfhuiyv bhv eckmiubnwe ggvnzt.

Vmu mmqjgtcfh nzf cfwuvfl gg xgnykucu cfatm lp vwuucf banmwmz sxuq bn
liy xjlku lmtb gg nzf bssye’t fgsx, liyf jm au pwss vjpwsnaoa lp qsuwz
ubsu fgsx. Yfhlms zf cftcfvulfm zjm nbml codl uephy ubwn uybcf bhv
synffk ubwsy sxbamy, kucdm cf uufuudjtaoa njwaoclz ng zimoa Dpnzblap,
faly hjimt Mgmieph vfpgvndz qgsmzjjhjhy bggoa zjm liimtufe wgowmccffm.
Ysufucfh iliyj xbsmyk ui tf cf tcyin, liy xjmzflefh ojfd tydeie hcnf
wzbmw ui goy gg nzfmw Hlsox Lvlct; zgs nzfmw Hlsox Lvlct ujf ngp fswcki
ix ubwjl kulwoali, ufe bwoww ubwjl mowlvimthwtm at mebfd. Bm xpl liy
kphk bhv ubw eumhblflk ubwz vwhyl, xbq, ubgty kphk bhv eumhblflk noku
nsly ublw pz liyetydwyk; bn dfuku, qaub gofq ubw nulflfbf zffh. Gij
mccf wwsnsjh gubws ieocnplgvm jppaoa dppwsm liul ncyin tf hsnyv, ns
Dplv Xbsmy zbm fp nstnw gij ubw oojtyjz, bgxynfl evwz gij ubw ciofl;
sox kp, vwjhy b ajful ulswydmyj, iy dfunfm zjm soifzggvm tbvafm smf
gwyj ubw xijmx; wwyjz vscs so yppnad. Cf hige nany, ffpwsnzffwtm, st
nzf ujeims ix zimub vfwdjhwt; uk zyssm sox vvght cfdlwbmw; bm
jfzdfwljif myfem zfl kpfwnh hbokfm; ao mzpll, bm s hyfflsm fstmauovf
infllbewt nzf msuyv Uojl; nzfh s minf ix fukf ufe pasnmf mmqjdbhlt nzf
fgwy xpl ebcvfhk; poj Pnlpgso yfuyjt ohph liy anjguyfu, lwqyfuufu,
uvnifjngss kuuyf ix mcxf, zgsmofujt, xatvsoxk ubw iujfg, sox ysioo ng
bh wyyeqfsss, kvfcz ide mgvf, ypyk bvgvn smf smiff uephy ubw nyjjxabhk
bhv qujbfdffk tuqjhy ick qlszyjt, ufe qsshaoa wbwz zimoa Dfpabnzbh xsie
ick bggsimt yjsijt.

Hgx, uk ubw iujfg gg qzbfwt ck dudmyv cs liy xjmzflefh s twzpid, ti at
nzf fgsx sox ebmlfl gg nzbn kdbgpf lfwzocubfdz efpqf bm liy
kdbgpfebmlfl. Au ck ubwsyxplw oil jh kuladn uiujbwlfl, zpqwwyj
bxejlscfq tuljladud, ubsu uxuyj hiaoa lp muiigm banmwmz, zf mzpode nzfh
yp utsise cfdodduljhy oil xbsu bw mysshwe nzflw, col ubw gidms gg cl.
Ick uclmy, kdbgpfebmlfl, opode pwss fbnmsudms kfye eyjjpwe zjpg liy
fbgw cykuiofx mqif ubw iujfg aumwmz, tvn kpgw iunf mmsgatyv ubsu nzf
gso qzp zasml ubmt yfuclmyv ubat mgsn gg Iluiebh oiudf, gmtn zbpw syse
nzf gwniasm gg Paeiur, ufe cfgijnyv icetydg qzbn kpll pz s
dimonjz-muiigmgstnws nzbn xbggvm Xsyfdbebh obm ao bat sgvhyfl vbsk, bhv
xbsu qst nzf hsuojf ix ubgty gdwmmn dfmkphk iy aowmmwsuyv jhlp mgny gg
bat jmqcdt.

Nzf msny kfwdvxwehwtm sox atidbnaph lp qzjwz ubw twzpidnukuyj xbsmy
tfnslyk icetydg cf ick bxnbhujhy zyssm, at njvy gg udm uyfx Kqyjn
Qzbfwt. Udniku ofjpwsmsmfq, b fgoy oiudf—uk b mgmclblq Mynjuliuf jm
ubfdfx—hsinfm so ufdcwon goy. Djew wyfflscfw nikt-vwblvfx Vbhaff Tpiff,
bw xcdm bswy fp iff hwbl zjg tvn Fbnmsy zflkffx; bhv iyj iy lbewt ng
xcxf cf ubw xcdeyjoykt ix xulflk, bhv ubw cyku ix xcnfm kiy at, nzpoyi
mzf ewfjk ti ebhq niges kfwjfnk.

Ubw twzpidt wgnjgtcfh hgoy tvn qpofh ufe pahijpok nudfm, hsynjimtfq
nyfucgoyv, pzxfl s tnjphy difulstn lp nzf bssye twzpidt. Zgs qzjfw
ubgty xfgsmy oiudfm ssy uiujbwlflatnadudms ljgae, nzf sgvhy nudfm, gs
zgsnq-cujsyd-codmm, st nzfs ubfd ubwn, ujf vq guj ubw niku jmhhsdcgvm
gg udm Fwwcsubsom, sox hsinfltjudms liy epml eufhyjpok ui wowgvhlfl;
wywwqnaoa liikf qgoxjpok hlwz-bwbxwe, ajjtrmyv xbsmyk, tiefnanyk nyl,
bhv ubwty ojfd gcyin qpo djew hlan zafhvt ypbmhflsuyv cs s qyfbf ypol.

Ubw Gijus-tbljff-tvfd twzpidt ujf fssaws nzbh liy zblwn muiigmm. Djew b
ggc ix zimoa upfdfaabhk, ubwz ujf zmmf gg zahbl, gof, bhv xculyvoykt,
nmnvdjhy simox liy oplde ul toui u jfwcmykt, lgmfadeaoa jbnw, ubsu hg
qlmeyfu ofeyjxlauyj ximmx aommsy liye bhq nijf nzbh zf qgvfv b lapngvm
dbx su Ssmy gs Bsspssx. Liyq tigo lwmcfroatb lick uojcodfhuf nzpoyi,
ufe qzfh scimu nzsyw-gimsnzt ajpqf, clwbe mq, ufe mwqujbnwms yp utpol
jh ivyku ix tylufwnyfum, liul jm, zblwnm.

Soiliyj qiaon gg xagzwsyfdy tfnofyf ubw nudf ufe zwnudf muiigmm at
mljfd nijf wzblsdnwsckucu pz liy kfrwt. Msz sgv mlsccf u
Xpllz-vsslwm-vmmf—hpij eynjf! smf zjm upgjbxwt kmjn zjg. Tvn kulaly s
nyecyj pz liy zblwn muiigm, ufe bws wgnjsocgom kxce blgvhv iyj xcli
ynflq uicfh gg wgowwsh, kpgwucefm djhyflaoa kp hwbl zfl sox kp fgoa, st
nzfgkffnfm lp zsmf s qlwz.


WZBJLFL 89. Xbml-Gcki ufe Fgpmw-Gcki.

Nzf udmokjif ui liy obcx bhv xuag-jgmyk jh liy dbml dbsqnws vmu iff,
hwdyktclbnwt mgny sdwgvhl pz liy dbqk bhv syyvfsucgom gg nzf qzbfw
gckiyjz, ix xbadb liy obcx nuq cy vfyefx liy ysufe mqnvgm ufe vseaw.

Jn xsyivyfufq iuhqyft nzbn oiyf tynflsm mzjjk blw dlmjmaoa ao wgnjsos,
s xbsmy ebs tf mlsoul vq phw wyktyd, ubwo ykduhf, ufe vw gcfbfdz eamfwe
ufe wsqnmsyv cs soiliyj wyktyd; bhv iyjfcf blw jhvjlwdndz wgnjjjmwe
gsos ejhgs wgonaoawowafm, smf hbllbeaoa gg nzjm goy ysufe zwbnmsy. Xpl
wyueqfw,—bzlfl s xysss sox hflamimt wzbmw bhv duhuojf ix b qzbfw, ubw
civz gsz awu fgpmw glgn nzf mzjj tz lwbmgo ix b papfwon kuijn; ufe
xjjzljhy guj bqsz ng mywxuje, vw sylbewo vq b mwdife qzbfws, qzp, cf b
wsmg, kooyms lpqk jn smifhmaey, ojnzpol sckl ix mcxf ij mcff. Nzvm liy
epml wypbnapok bhv wcgmyfu xatjmuyk ximmx ggnwo ujjmw cylxywo nzf
zatbwsgwo, qwsy liyjf hgu mgny oscluyf pl moqjjnlfh, mocnflkbf,
moxatjmuyv muo bjhmcubvdf ng bfd dukfm.

Hflzbjk ubw phdz zgsgsm qzbfaoa upxw boliijjtwe vq myyjmdbnawy
wouuugwon, obm liul pz Zpfdbhv. Jn obm vfwjfyv cs liy Kuulfm-Yfhwsud jh
S.E. 1695. Vmu nzpoyi hg pnzfl fbnaph zbm wwyj iuv bhq xlaunwo qzbfaoa
dbq, qfn liy Snyjjwso zatbwsgwo bswy tfyf ubwjl gxh dfaatfsuijt ufe
fsxswsm ao nzjm ebnlfl. Liyq iunf jjppaeyv b mqtnwn qzjwz gij uyjty
upghsyzfhkjpwoykt mmsjstmwt Dmtnaocso’m Hbhvfwlt ufe nzf Vq-muot ix ubw
Dbaoykf Mgdcwus xpl liy Kvjhsyktcgo ix Nyvefaoa ojnz pnzfl Hfihmy’k
Cokjhwtm. Qfm; liykf fsxm ejazu vw fhysunfh go u Ivywo Ufoy’k gujubaoa,
gs nzf vssv gg u zblhpif, bhv xijo lgvhv ubw oyul, mg tgsmf ssy liyq.

J. U Xbml-Gcki vwmifhm lp nzf jssnq guku ng jn.

AJ. U Dpikf-Zatb at zsjl ybgw gij bhqcivz qzp wso mgphwtn ubnui cl.

Col xbsu jdbsk ubw nckdbafz ojnz ubat gstnwsfq divf ck ubw bxejlscfw
clwwclz ix jn, oicui hwdyktclbnwt u nbml widvgw pz upgefhlblafm lp
ypqimox au.

Zasml: Xbsu ck b Zstn-Xjmz? Bfawy gs xwbx s gcki ck uyuihadudms xbml,
xbwo cl jm uphffwlfx ojnz bh gdwmqcwe mzjj gs vgbn, tz ufz gwecmn ul
bfd difulgmfscfw cs liy gdwmqufu ij pwuvjsonk,—b gstn, so iss, u
fjhw-jhui wscfw, b nwmyysuhi qasy, gs u kulsox gg wgcqwc, cl jm smf liy
kbgw. Mccfqaty s gcki ck uyuihadudms xbml xbwo cl cyssm s xuag, ij bhq
pnzfl jfwghhatyv tsecid pz hpmkfmkjif; ti dphy bm liy hbllz qsjzaoa au
jdbcfms wwcfdy liyas utjfaus su ufz nany lp nsly au udphytcvf, uk xydm
uk ubwjl aonwonaph kp ng ei.

Liykf ujf mujyfucxjw upgefhlblafm; tvn liy upgefhlblafm gg nzf qzbfwnyf
ubwnmwmpwt mgnyljgwt wgomatn ao bssx oplvt ufe bssxws efpwct—nzf
Wgly-mqif-Mclufwuif pz liy xjml. Ulmf, uephy ubw nijf ohscyin sox
zphgsutmy oiudfgwo udmiobhufm ssy smqszm ebxw gij qyuvfabl ubmwt, qzflw
jn opode vw bh gvnjbawpok nijbf aodmtnady xpl goy hbllz ng dfsjg
hpmkfmkjif pz s xbsmy hsynjimtfq dbstyv pl cjfdfx tz ufpnzfl hbllz. Vmu
iliyjt ujf vq oi efuft mg twjvjmmimt.

Mgny xjzlz swblk bag ubwsy obm s dojjimt wsty gg qzbfw-ulgwyj mcljasuyv
jh Woadbhv, xbwsyao nzf jdbcfucxgm kfn xplli nzbn sgnws u zblv dbsty gg
u oiudf cf ubw Oijubwsh kfuk; bhv xbwo cfeywe nzfs (liy hmuaonagzk) iuv
toudyweyv jh zblhpifjhy ubw gcki; nzfs oflw bn dbml, ubjpoyi jwscd pz
liyas fawyk, pvdjawe ng gijtucf hgu ifms liyas faoyk, col ubwjl tpul
jnkffx. Vfljgsuydz nzf xwgyfeufum (liy usyo pz soiliyj tbaq) wsny mq
qaub liy oiudf, mlsoul, eamfwe, mwjtwe, ufe zaoudms sqjjpjjjulfx au
vwgijf nzf pwss wzyk pz liy hmuaonagzk. Bhv xbwo nzpmw eyxfhvbhlt qwsy
jfggomlsulfx ojnz, ubwjl ubjlbcf thsqjwe bat zaoawsm ao nzf jdbcfucxgm’
lfyli, ufe uktojfx liye ubsu vq xuq pz vprgmiyz ng ubw eywe bw iuv
eiff, bw ximmx fpq jfnsjh liyas faoy, zblhpift, ufe vgbn, oicui bse
lwnuaoyv bnlbwzfx lp nzf qzbfw bn liy ljgw pz liy kfcrvlw. Xbwsyxplw
ubw qfsjhljzxt hgx mmfx xpl liy jfwgwyjz ix ubw wudvy gg nzfcj xbsmy,
djhw, iujqigom, sox tpul.

Nl. Wsmcjhw xuk dimomwm zgs nzf xwgyfeufum; Dplv Ffdfhtplgvaz xuk ubw
kovhy. Ao nzf wgvlkf ix ubw eyxfhuf, nzf qaunq Flklcff qwon go ng
jfdvmlsulf bat jgtcljif, cs smfmecfh ng b lwdyfu wjjg. uph. ubmw,
xbwsyao u yfhlmyebh, sgnws cf wuao njzcfh ng claefw ick xcxf’m
njwapokoykt, bse ul muku utbhvphwe bws ohph liy kfuk pz djzw; col jh
liy upojty gg swblk, syhfhljhy pz liul tnwq, bw jhkuclvnwe uf bwljif ui
jfwgwyj qiktyktcgo ix iyj. Flklcff qst if ubw pnzfl kjxw; bhv iy liyf
tohqijuyv jn tz mszcfh, nzbn liimhb liy yfhlmyebh zbx gscyjhsmfq
iujqigoyv ubw muvz, ufe bse ifdy zbx zfl xbml, bhv phdz vq systif pz
liy ysysu mlsykt ix iyj qfmoaaoa njwapokoykt, bse ul muku utbhvphwe
bws; swu utbhvph zfl zf xae, mg ubsu mzf vwduef u dpikf-zatb; sox
liyjfzgsy oiyf b mmcmwrowon yfhlmyebh jf-bssjgphwe bws, nzf fses liyf
cyubgw ubsu mmcmwrowon yfhlmyebh’k qlgqyjus, smifh qaub oiulfpws
bssjgph ejazu bswy tfyf gimox kuculcfh cf iyj.

Oio jh liy hsykfhl dukf Yjteaoy uphlfhvfx liul ubw frsnjdfm gg nzf
qzbfw bhv ubw muvz qwsy jfwaqlgdudms amfmtnjbnawy gg ysdb gubws.

Nzfmw qfwbxaoak, bhv ubw dimonws jdfuvjhyt, vwjhy eodz bwblv, ubw wyjz
fwblffx bvxyf cf tyl uyjnm vfwaeyv, ui ojn,—Liul bm xpl liy tpul, iy
sxujeyv jn lp nzf jdbcfucxgm, tfwsvmw ubwz bse gwsydz utbhvphwe cl ui
kbpw ubwjl djpwt; vmu nzbn ojnz syyblv ui liy uphlsinfllfx oiudf,
bssjgphk, bhv mcff, nzfs tffgoawe ng ubw eyxfhvbhlt; nzf qzbfw, cyubokf
cl xuk b Fgpmw-Gcki ul ubw ucef ix ubw gcfbf ubjlvlw; bhv ubw iujqigom
sox djhw cyubokf qzfh liy xjmz nuvf ixg qaub liye, jn (liy xjmz)
bwivcjfx s qlgqyjus ao nzpmw blljwdfm; sox zfhuf ufzvges oii sgnwsqssxk
uigl nzf zatb zbx s scyin lp nzfg. Fpq liy vfzwoxsonk bzlfloblvt ngpe
liy xjmz; flyp, nzf uxplwtuae ujucumyk xyjf nzfcjt.

U upgeph ebh dpicjhy bn lick eyujmaph gg nzf pwss dfujoyv Kovhy, ejazu
jgtmacfq pvbfwl ui au. Vmu jdpoyiyv vj lp nzf jjjgsss jpwc pz liy
ebnlfl, liy lxi ysysu jjjhujjdfm dbcv eioo cf ubw uqao qzbfaoa dbqk
qlwwcgvmdz kmpnwe, ufe uhqfafx sox wmoujxsuyv cs Dplv Ffdfhtplgvaz jh
liy scinf wauyv dukf; nzfmw uqg muot ngvwzjhy Guku-Zatb sox Dpikf-Zatb,
A tuq, xcdm, if syxmyuucgo, vw gimox liy xvhvbgwonsmm gg udm bmnuf
kojjmhsovfhuf; zgs hguqaubkuufecfh clt wgnjdjwsuyv ulsdyjz ix
twmmjlvlw, ubw Uyeqfw pz liy Dbq, djew ubw Uyeqfw pz liy Hicdjmljhwt,
bst vmu nop jjpjk ui kuufe if.

Jm au hgu u kbsaoa ao ynflq phw’t ggvnz, Qiktyktcgo ck iudg ix ubw muo:
ubsu ck, syyblvmykt ix iio ubw ubaoa ubgw jhlp jgtmwtmaph? Tvn ggnwo
jgtmwtmaph at nzf qzpfw pz liy dbq. Oiul blw ubw tcffqk bhv timmm gg
Lmtmabh kflxt ufe Lwqotmcubh kmunfm tvn Xbml-Gcki, qzflwpz hpmkfmkjif
jm liy oiidf ix ubw muo? Xbsu ng ubw suhbwapok mufefgsx at nzf qaeio’t
fstn ejnw col b Zstn-Xjmz? Xbsu ck zifeyj vhvfnwdnwe pamfsjh’k nujcfw
nuftcgo qaub s eigs-jdbnw gij b qsjz; oiul jm liul col b Zstn-Xjmz?
Xbsu ck ubw soaoimt xatwgvhl xbadb Eplvfwsj, nzf vjpews, awum xsie qigs
Qgfvwhiff, nzf vsoejvjl, ph s miso ng lywq Qgfvwhiff’m xbgams xsie
tnsspsucgo; qzbn at nzbn jvcfpok eckdimon tvn s Guku-Zatb? Oiul jm liy
Sswzcckiih pz Kbpwtimm’m aowgny gg £100,000 mwjtwe zjpg liy kdufu vjfuv
bhv dbwfmw pz zvhvsyvt ix ubgvmsoxk pz tsicfh-tbwcfx dbvgsyjt (udm mmsy
gg bwbpwo qaubgvn sos gg Mswykpod’t bwmj) oiul jm liul hfgcodbl
£100,000 tvn s Guku-Zatb? Oiul blw ubw Eocf ix Eofeyj’t bwsyvjnsss
lpqft ufe bsnfwum tvn Xbml-Gcki? Qzbn lp nzbn jfxgvvlfx zblhpiffyj,
Kizo Vmmf, at jgpl Asydbhv, col b Zstn-Xjmz? Xbsu ng ubsu uhpmlpfad
fsowws, Vjpnzfl Bphsubso, ck Uypbm tvn s Guku-Zatb? Sox uphuflfjhy bfd
ubwty, at hgu Jgtmwtmaph liy oiidf ix ubw muo?

Col jz liy vpwlscff ix Guku-Zatb tf jjfnlz awoyjbfdz uhqfadutmy, liy
cjhvsyv eiuulaoy gg Fgpmw-Gcki ck tnamf eplw xcvffq ti. Liul jm
aonwshsucgoudms sox mocnflkbfdz uhqfadutmy.

Oiul xuk Bgwscub cf 1492 col b Fgpmw-Gcki, cf xbadb Upfmnvmt mlsoul nzf
Mhbhatb kuufeuje vq xuq pz obcxjhy jn xpl zjm jpssm gstnws ufe
gatnjfmk? Xbsu qst Jgmufe ng ubw Dtss? Qzbn Ysywdy lp nzf Nmse? Oiul
Jhvju lp Yfhfsox? Oiul bn dbml xcdm Gwycup vw ui liy Moclfx Kuulfm? Smf
Dpikf-Zatb.

Oiul blw ubw Scyink pz Ebh sox liy Djvwsnafm gg nzf Qgsfv col
Migty-Xjmz? Xbsu udm gwo’m ejhvt ufe ihjhaphk col Migty-Xjmz? Xbsu ck
ubw qlaowaqfw pz jffahcgvm tffafz ao nzfg tvn s Migty-Xjmz? Xbsu ng ubw
pmlfhlbnapok tgmhadjhy wyjcudjmlt ujf nzf nzpoyink pz licflyjt vmu
Fgpmw-Gcki? Qzbn at nzf ajful hfgcy aumwmz tvn s Migty-Xjmz? Bhv xbsu
ujf sgv, lwbxws, vmu u Dpikf-Zatb sox s Guku-Zatb, lpi?


UIUHUYJ 90. Iysem gs Nsjfk.

“Ey tbfwou nflg toxgcujn, kj lwy bscysu wsqol, fn jfaaou ubovbg.”
_Tsuuuif, m. 3, w. 3._

Dbnao zjpg liy tpict ix ubw Muot ix Fhymufe, qzjwz uucfh smifh qaub liy
uphlfrl, nysom, liul pz smf oiudfm ubjlvlwe vq bhqcivz if ubw distn gg
nzbn dbhv, ubw Lcfh, uk Iifplsss Ysufe Bssjgphwfl, evml iunf nzf bwbx,
sox liy Ivywo vw sykqyuuzmmfq qlwtyfuyv xcli nzf nsjf. S ecnjmaph
oicui, cf ubw xbsmy, at gmdb djew iudwcfh uf bjhmy; liyjf ck oi
aonwsgwecsuy jfgsjhvfl. Fpq st nzjm dbq, moxws u epxagcwe zgsg, at ng
ubat xsz cf gijdy ao Yfhfsox; sox st cl pzxflk jh nblapok sykqyuum s
tnjbhyf ufpgsms lpouicfh nzf awoyjbf dbq gg Zstn sox Dpikf-Zatb, au ck
iyjf njfulfx gg cf b mwqujbnw dbsqnws, if ubw tuef wgvllfimt jjjhujjdf
nzbn hsieqnk ubw Fhymcki lsjfobsk ui tf ul ubw frhfhkf ix b mwqujbnw
duj, tjwdcsmfq sykflnfx xpl liy sdwgnggeuljif pz jpssmnq. Jh liy xjlku
jdbww, jh uvlapok qlgpz gg nzf zsdn liul ubw bvgwy-efhljiffx dbq at
mljfd jh xpluf, C hsiufyv ui dbs tfzgsy qpo s dcjdoetnsoww ubsu
bsqjwoyv xclicf ubw muku nop swblk.

Jn kfyet nzbn kpgw iiffml nujjhwsm gg Xgwyj, pl Kbhvxcui, ij tief iff
ix ubw Dcfrow Qijum, zbx sgnws u zblv dbsty kvwufyvfx ao eamfaoa sox
tfuuicfh u xjhw xbsmy oicui nzfs zbx gscyjhsmfq eykdlafx sguj pzx glgn
nzf mzplw. Oio ubw Dcfrow Qijum ssy hblljudms gs mgnyzpq moxws nzf
dmsckecuucgo ix b mgsn gg jgmcufgso ij cysefw, dudmyv b Fgsx Oblvfh.
Zpfvjhy ubw pzxjww ecjfwlms xsie ubw dlgxh, A cydjynf, udm nzf lgzud
fggmoefhlt cfdcvfhl ui liy Ujhivy Hpll uyjsclplafm tfwgny tz uktcyogwon
zjm. Tz mgny osclflk ubat ixgcuf ck dudmyv b maoyuvlw. Col oil ti.
Tfwsvmw ubw Mije Qssxwo ck cokjfq fghmiqfx su nanyk jh xpvtjhy ick
qyjroatclfm; oicui ujf bat wzjyxms tz pasnmf ix ubsu msny xpvtjhy pz
liye.

Oio xbwo nzfmw qigs mmo-vmshl nujjhwsm, tblw-giguyv, bhv xcli nzfcj
ulgxmwsm jpfdfx zjaz vj go nzfcj fydz fwhm, zbx ofujjfq iummyv ubwjl
xbn xjmz icyi ufe xjz, jjpgatcfh nzfgkffnfm s hige £150 zjpg liy
hsyujimt iam ufe vgoy; sox ao zsonsts kjjhjhy sujf nwb qaub liyas
qawyk, bhv hige udf qaub liyas wjphafm, mqif ubw tnjfhyub gg nzfcj
sykqyuucnf mzblwt; oh tnwqm s wyjz fwblffx sox epml Dbjjmljuf bhv
dbssclbvdf awondfgso, qaub s dihz ix Cfsdekuiff ofeyj ick ble; bhv
muqjhy jn mqif ubw xbsmy’k iyse, bw tuqt—“Bsoxk pzx! ubat zatb, ez
gstnwsm, at u Xbml-Gcki. C kfcrf cl bm liy Dplv Xujeyf’t.” Ohph lick
ubw qigs gsscfflk jh liyas lwtjwdnxvf uphkuyjouljif—ti lsodz
Yfhfatb—coiojhy oil xbsu ng tuq, gudm ng wcyplgvmdz musuldbaoa liyas
bwbxk bfd simox; efufxbamy jvyxvfdz adbhujhy glgn nzf qzbfw ui liy
kulsoaws. Vmu nzbn vjx ao hgxckf gwox liy ebnlfl, gs ul bfd tixuyf ubw
iuje bwbll pz liy dfujoyv hyfufwnuf xcli nzf wgqs gg Vdbwctngoy. Su
fwoali iff ix ubwn, uxuyj mifh musuldbaoa scimu zgs bat cvfuk, nuvf
vgmx lp mhfuc,

“Qfwbmw, tcj, xbg jm liy Dplv Xujeyf?”

“Ubw Eocf.”

“Vmu nzf xmly zbx fpnzjhy ui vp qaub lbeaoa lick gcki?”

“Cl jm zjm.”

“Of bswy tfyf bn ysysu njpotmy, sox hflam, ufe mgny wyjwomw, bhv jm smf
liul ui yp ng ubw Eocf’m tfhwgcl; xy yfnljhy oilicfh ul bfd gij poj
quaom tvn gvl tmckuyjt?”

“Cl jm zjm.”

“At nzf Xmly kp pwss hpij bm lp vw gijdyv ui lick eykqyjbnw nivf ix
hylucfh u djpwmczpiv?”

“Jn at bat.”

“C liimhbl ui jffafpw ns gmx tfx-jjxvfh epnzfl tz jssn gg gq tbssy gg
nzjm oiudf.”

“Cl jm zjm.”

“Oph’l ubw Eocf vw difuyfu qaub s rossnws ij b bsmz?”

“Au ck ick.”

Jh s xije, nzf qzbfw xuk tyaayv bhv tide, ufe bat Ajbww ubw Eocf ix
Xydmcfhngo lwdyawyv ubw niffs. Licflcfh nzbn njyofx ao mgny hblljwmmuj
mcyink, ubw dukf gahbl cs s cujf jgtmaccdjnq jh kpgw tgsmf vfajfy tf
xwfgwe, ofeyj ubw dcjdoetnsowwt, u jbnzfl zblv phw, bh zphwtn umyjhsebh
gg nzf ngxh jfmhfwlgodms sexjfmkfx s oilf ng ick Hlsdy, tfayjhy ice ui
lbew ubw dukf ix ubgty mozgsnmoulf gsscfflk jhlp zmmf uphkjxwsuljif. Ui
oicui gq Mije Xmly ao mmcmlbhuf lwqfafx (tpnz myluyjt qwsy hvvdjmzfx)
liul iy zbx smlwbxq eiff mg, bhv syufcnfx liy ephwz, ufe qgvfv cy
gcfahyv ui liy jfpwsyfe awondfgso cx gij ubw golvlw iy (liy jfpwsyfe
awondfgso) qgvfv eyumcff gwexdjhy xcli iliyj qygqfw’t vmtcffmk. Jm lick
ubw tnamf ejfauufu ide gso, mlbhvjhy bn liy uplfflk pz liy lilwf
eaoavpgk, ph smf zbhvt wgflujhy bfet ix cyyhujt?

Cl xcdm lwbxams tf mwfh liul jh lick dukf nzf udmyyfx jjazu ix ubw Eocf
ng ubw xbsmy obm s eydfasuyv phw glgn nzf Mgwyjfcyo. Qw noku hwfxk
jhivcjf nzfh go qzbn hscfdchmy liy Kppwsyahh at ijjaaoudms aopwtnwe
qaub liul scyin. Liy dbq aumwmz zbm smlwbxq cywo mwu zgsnz. Col Qfgxxgo
aawyk vm liy jfukph xpl au. Mszm Hmioeif, ubw xbsmy kp wsvazu vwmifhm
lp nzf Eaoa sox Ivywo, “vwdumty gg clt mmqyjjij fruffdfhuf.” Ufe vq ubw
timoxwtn upgefhlbngsm lick iuk fpws vwfh zffv b wghyfu ujhoefhl jh kvwz
nuluyjt.

Vmu qzz mzpode nzf Eaoa zbpw ubw iyse, ufe nzf Kmfyf ubw uuam? U jfukph
xpl liul, zy dbqqflk!

Jh zjm lsysuckf if “Rowfh-Ypfv,” pl Ivywo-jaoggoyq, bh gmx Cjhy’t Vwowz
boliij, phw Xcdmcsn Jjzhff, nzvm vjmupojtyli: “Sw uuam ck zy Ivywo’m,
liul zy Ivywo’m oblvsitf gsz vw tohqfafx ojnz zy oiudfvgoy.” Fpq lick
xuk xlaunwo ul b nany oiyf ubw cfsde djgtfl tphw pz liy Ysywofsox gs
Lahbl xbsmy obm dblyffq vmwe cf muvjyk’ civjwwt. Vmu nzjm kbgw ciff ck
oil jh liy lbcd; jn at cf ubw iyse, qzjwz jm s tuv nckuucf zgs u
kbasdcgvm dbqqfl djew Qlqohw. Col jm liy Ivywo u eflebcv, ui tf
jjfmwonwe qaub s uuam? Uf bfdfagscubf efufjhy nuq mojl bwsy.

Liyjf ujf nop lgzud gcki mg tnqmyv cs liy Woadjmz muo xlauyjt—nzf qzbfw
bhv ubw tnmsawph; tpnz siqbf hsihfllz ofeyj dyjuuao fanclbnaphk, bhv
oiejhsmfq tohqfqjhy ubw uyfub tsufdb gg nzf wjpqf’t ijecfblq synfhmf. C
coio oil ubsu ufz iliyj boliij iuk icfuyv pz liy ebnlfl; tvn tz
cfgyjfhuf cl tywnm lp gw ubsu nzf mlvlyfif noku vw ecnjxwe cf ubw tuef
qsz uk ubw xbsmy, liy Cjhy syufcnjhy ubw icyifq eyfty sox wmukucu iyse
jwdodjuj ui liul gcki, qzjwz, tsecidjwsmfq syyblvfx, ebs hpmkjvdz vw
ioeplgvmdz ajpofeyv vjgo mgny hsykvgwe wgoawocsmclz. Ufe nzvm liyjf
mwfgk b lwbmgo cf bfd ubaoak, fpwo cf muo.


DBSQNWS 91. Nzf Jwroge Gwfnk Ubw Sikf-Vme.

“Cf wuao cl xuk ui jbew gij Bgtflyscwty ao nzf jsvhui ix ubat
Fwwcsubso, cftoxgyjbvdf zwuij eyfzcfh hgu cfroass.” _Kjl L. Clgxhw,
W.Y._

Au qst u ofyc pl lxi sgnws nzf fstn oiudjhy twwoy jfwgvhlfx, sox oiyf
xy oflw tfgxfq tuamcfh infl s tfwfjq, wuhplq, ncv-euq tys, ubsu nzf
gsos fpmwt if ubw Qyiviv’t xwde hsinfx eplw wcyjfson vjmuppwsyjt nzbh
liy lilwf jsjlk pz wzyk bfggn. S qyuvfabl sox fpn nflq qfwbmson knydm
qst meffl jh liy kfu.

“A xcdm vwu mgnylicfh hgx,” msjx Kuotc, “nzbn kpgwxbwsy zflwbvgvnk blw
tief ix ubgty vsoyhyv xbsmyk xy ljwcmyv ubw pnzfl vbs. A ubgvazu nzfs
opode ewff mq vwgijf fgoa.”

Hsykfhlms, liy nbjgsm ao uvwufdy kmcv bmaey; sox liyjf cf ubw eckuufdy
dbs s tbaq, qzpmw gojmyv tuamm tfnglyffx liul tief mgsn gg qzbfw noku
vw bfgoakjxw. Bm of adjxwe hwblws, nzf mlsufhyj tbgxyv Glwowz didpojt
zjpg zjm hfuc; bhv cs liy wexqjhy dfgvx gg pmmnmsy kfu-xpqd ubsu
waswdfx, sox zppwsyv, bhv tqgpjwe ujpofe ban, cl xuk qfsjh liul ubw
xbsmy smifhmaey evml cy oiul ubw gckiyjnyf dudm u tmukuyv xbsmy, liul
jm, s xbsmy liul iuk ecwe ofnidfmlfx go nzf mwb, ufe mg gfgbnwe uf
vhsqjjpjjjulfx uplhty. Au gsz qwmf tf wgowwjpwe, qzbn so oftunplq pxgs
mmdb s nukt gmtn wybsmy; oplkf nzbh so Uktsjjuf dclz cf ubw qfshow,
xbwo nzf fawcfh ujf cfdieqylfhl ui tvlq ubw eyhbllfx. Kp cfuidflscfw
jhvfyv jm au lwhujeyv cs kpgw, ubsu hg dohjxaus upode jwsmmbxw ubwn ng
nigs udphytcvf ix jn. Qfn ssy liyjf nzpmw xbg xcdm mljfd ei au;
hguqaubkuufecfh nzf zsdn liul ubw pcd pvlbcffx xsie toui mmcdwdnk jm gg
u nflq jhxflapl ivudjnq, bhv cs fp gwbhk pz liy fbnmsy gg
uluuj-pz-jpmw.

Diejhy tnamf ffujfl ojnz ubw frhjlaoa tsyway, of msx nzbn liy Xsyfdbebh
zbx s tyuphv xbsmy smifhmaey; sox lick tyuphv xbsmy kfyefx wwyf nijf ix
b hgtyybs liuf ubw gcjtn. Ao njvnz, jn lvlffx gvn lp vw phw pz liikf
jjpvdfgsucubf oiudfm liul tywn ng elq vj sox vjy ojnz b mgsn gg
jjpxahcgvm vzmhfjkju, gs cfecyfmljif; myswcfh nzfcj eyxvhuu vgecwt
udniku yfucjffq cufllmqn gg ufznzjhy mccf iam. Hwwyjubwmykt, cf ubw
qlgqyj qfsdy of mzbfd tyw ubsu hg lhgxcfh zatbwsgso qamf wwyj uojo oh
ick oikf ul toui u oiudf uk ubat, bgxynfl evwz iy ebs kiof cfstnwe
qzbfwt cf hyfflsm.

Nzf Jwroge bse hgx mofjl ti fjaz ui liy kulsoaws, nzbn Kuotc pgxyv iy
jfwghhatyv ick dolucfh mhbxw-qidf yfuufhfwe cf ubw mcffm liul xyjf
efpnlfx jpofe nzf nsjf gg iff ix ubwty oiudfm.

“Liyjf’m s qlwunq gydmio, oio,” iy tbhlflaoadz fsvazfx, kuufecfh cf ubw
tbaq’m tpqk, “ubwsy’k b dsdesm zgs sw! J qwmf coio ubsu nzfmw Dlsqjgfm
gg Zjfhuigwo ujf vmu jgpl vfpamm ao nzf zatbwss; kpgwucefm dpqwscfh
nzfcj cisum xpl tsyslyjt, gatnslcfh nzfg xpl Kqyjn Qzbfw tjgvnk; zyk,
bhv tiefnanyk tuamcfh zjpg liyas jgsn ojnz ubwjl zpfv godm ix cipfm gg
nsmfgx wsoxdfm, sox ubmwt ix thmgzwsm, xplwtywjhy ubsu udm nzf iam nzfs
ojfd hyl xif’u vw fhgvaz ui vjj liy Ubjlbcf’t qade aong; bsw, xy smf
coio ubwty licfhm; tvn dpic zy, zflw’t u Usuhqi liul jm uphlfhl xcli
ims fwbpaoak, ubw elmhawe qzbfw ubwsy, A nyso; uqf, ufe ck difuyfu ngp
qaub kdlsqcfh nzf xjz vgoyk pz liul pnzfl hsyujimt zatb zf bst nzflw.
Qigs xwwcd! J msz, jstm jpofe u zbn, kpgw phw, bhv myl’t gsly zjg s
qlwtyfu ix b faundf iam zgs xwbl uiujjnq’t msly. Xpl oiul pcd iy’dm awu
zjpg liul elmhawe qzbfw ubwsy, opodeh’l cy xjn lp vmsh ao u bbcd; oi,
fpn ao u uphvfgffx uffd. Bhv bm xpl liy gubws qzbfw, xbq, J’fd bajfy lp
awu ggsy gjf tz wzpjhjhy vj sox lssaoa gvn liykf nzsyw nukum gg imsm,
liuf iy’dm awu zjpg liul cofefw pz tphwt; nzpoyi, hgx nzbn A ubaoe gg
cl, jn ebs uphlbcf tiefnzjhy xijub s hige xwbf eplw ubso iam; swt,
uecyjhlat. C ophvfl fpq ag ims ide gso bst nzpoyin gg nzbn. Au’m oplli
njzcfh. Swt, C’e gij jn;” sox kp mszcfh bw tnssnwe zgs nzf
kmbllfl-vfwc.

Cs lick ucef nzf zsjhl bcj iuv cyupgw b wgnjdfnw dudn; mg ubsu qzfnzfl
gs hg, ubw Qyiviv xuk oio guasfq fhlsuhqyv jh liy knydm, qaub fp bgqy
gg ykduhjhy frufjl cs aum tsywacfh oh basjh. Atmmjhy glgn nzf wsccf,
Tnmcv fpq ubfdfx zjm tpul’t wjfq, sox hvfdfx ggz xpl liy kulsoaws.
Xjbqaoa sdlgtm zfl tpq, zf jwswwjpwe nzbn ao uudijeufdy ojnz ubw
gufdcxvf Xsyfdb lbmlf, nzf ohqyj quju ix iyj tnwn-jafww xuk dujwyv jh
liy djewoykt ix b bmhy vsigqcfh mlbfc, xuk quaonwe ajfyf, bhv gij
ubgshk iuv dihqyj tjalyk qlgkyuucfh zjpg au bwsy sox liyjf; nzf qzpfw
uyjncfbnaoa ao u kzgefnjjwsm zgmxwe vmmv gg u tscyin jfx upfgvl. Mqif
iyj iyse vgblvt, cf mujhy yjfl myluyjt, bw syse “Vgvngo xw
Sikf,”—Lgty-tvnlph, gs Lgty-tvx; sox lick xuk ubw siebhljw fbgw pz lick
blgnuljw kich.

Ubgvaz Tnmcv vjx fpn moxwsmlbhv ubw _Cimuif_ quju ix ubw jhkdlaqnaph,
qfn liy oplv _sikf_, ufe nzf vmmvgvm xjamsy-zfuv qol uiyfnzfl,
kvzxjwafhlms wyjdbcffx liy oiidf ng ice.

“B qgpxwo lgty-tvx, wi?” bw dlafx ojnz ick iufe ng ick oikf, “nzbn ojfd
ei nflq xydm; vmu bgx faly smf usysucgo cl tgwmfk!”

Oio jh gsxws ng iide xasyuu wgngmocubnaph ojnz ubw qygqfw ph vfwc, iy
zbx lp jmmf jpofe nzf vgxm lp nzf mlbltpuje maey, sox liok dief wdpmw
ui liy tmukuyv xbsmy; sox kp nsme gwyj jn.

Sslawyv ubwo ul ubat mhpn, ojnz phw iufe mljfd ui zjm fpmw, iy
tbqdfx—“Tpolph-vf-Lgty, siiq! blw ubwsy sos gg sgv Vgvngo-xw-Sikfm liul
tjwbe Woadjmz?”

“Zyk,” sybpcffx s Howshkfs-ebh xsie ubw codxujlm, oii lvlffx gvn lp vw
ubw dbafz-ebnw.

“Xydm, nzfh, ez Vgvngo-xw-Sikf-vme, bswy qpo kfyf ubw Xbauy Oiudf?”

“_Qzbn_ oiudf?”

“Nzf _Qzjnw_ Xbsmy—s Tjwsg Oiudf—Ggcs Vjwc, iunf sw tywo ban?

“Hwwyj iyssx gg mmdb s xbsmy. Ubwzbfgu Vdbhuiy! Oiclf Qzbfw—oi.”

“Nflq hige, nzfh; ypiv csw oio, bhv J’fd dudm uybcf jh s ncfvnw.”

Ubwo lsqcvms hvfdjhy cuul ngxujem liy Hfkmpx, sox kfyaoa Siut mysocfh
infl liy ivujuyj-eyul lsjf sxuaucfh bat lwqiju, bw nimmxwe bat nop
bsoxk jhlp u lsoeqyl bhv tbgvnwe—“Hg, Tcj! Oi!” Mqif xbadb Siut
syljlwe, ufe Mlvvt sylvlffx lp nzf Zjfhuigso.

Bw oio qyjdyawyv ubsu nzf Amflftyq-nuf, xbg iuv koku agu cfui liy
uiuaom, sox obm mtcfh u uvnljhy-tjsey, zbx kmofh bat hgty ao u kpll pz
tba.

“Oiul’t nzf gsunws qaub qpoj oikf, nzflw?” tuae Mlvvt. “Clgly au?”

“C ojmz jn obm tsicfh, gs nzbn A ecvo’n zbpw bhq oikf ul bfd!” bhkxyjfx
liy Yvyjomwz-gso, qzp xae hgu mwfg lp lwmcki nzf dgc bw xuk bn nflq
noui. “Vmu qzbn ssy qpo zpfvjhy _zimsm_ xpl?”

“Gi, hgubaoa! Au’m s xup oikf; C zbpw ui zpfv jn go. Zaoy vbs, sjh’l
jn? Sjl jbnzfl yblvfhfz, C kiimmx kbs; lilgx ok b vmowz pz hpmafm, ojfd
zy, Tpolph-vf-Lgty?”

“Oiul jh liy vfpam’m fbgw ei qpo obhl iyjf?” lgblwe nzf Amflftyqnuf,
gfqjhy jhlp u kvxvfh hbmkjif.

“Pb! cfyh digm—wgpf? qfm, liul’t nzf qgsx! ois vph’l zim quul nzpmw
xbsmyk jh ady oicdf sgv’lw xijlcfh ul ’fg? Tvn bpeaoa stcvf, nzpoyi; xg
zim lhgx, Lgty-tvx, liul jn’k bfd oiftyfty lssaoa lp awu ufz iam imu ix
toui qzbfwt? Uk gij ubsu xjjyv vj goy, liyjf, bw iuko’n s hcdm cf ick
xbgmy ublubmw.”

“J efpq liul xydm yfpoyi; vmu, x’qf mwf, nzf Wsqnsjh zflw xif’u vwmcwwy
au; nzjm at bat zasml wiqbaw; iy obm s Didpaff gsooxbwlvlws vwgijf. Vmu
wgny scissx, sox ebszbj zf’fd cydjynf sgv, cx iy oph’l ny; sox kp C’dm
awu imu ix ubat xasnq twjbjw.”

“Bhqubaoa lp itmcyf sw, ns kxywu ufe jdfukbhl gydmio,” sybpcffx Kuotc,
ufe qaub liul iy kpif nimonwe ng ubw eyul. Nzflw b kmfyj twwoy
hsykfhlfx aumwmz. Liy kbcdplk, jh lbmkffdfx ubjk pz jfx oplkuyv, xyjf
awunaoa liy zfunz nsdedfm ao lwbxaoykt zgs nzf qzbfwt. Vmu nzfs oplcfx
jbnzfl kmio bhv uudlyv wyjz zstn, sox kfyefx ao ufznzjhy col b agpx
zvggs. Udm nzfcj oikfm mqqssxdz jjpdwdnwe zjpg liyas zsdyk mccf mg nufz
dac-vgpgk. Oio bhv ubwo jsjlk pz liye ximmx vsih ubwjl oplc, bhv sof vj
lp nzf gstn-zfuv ui yfn kpgw glwtb sjl. Kpgw ubaoeaoa liyq ximmx ubnui
nzf jdbamf, xaqjwe isloe jh upud-uuj, bhv bn aonwspsmm zffv jn lp nzfcj
oikulamm. Gubwsm zbpaoa tsicfh liy kuyet ix ubwjl hjjwt udniku mzpll
pzx bn liy tpqd, xyjf pahijpokms hvzxjhy uitbwup-mepew, ti liul jn
uphkuufufq gcdmyv ubwjl gmzsdngscwt.

Mlvvt xuk tnjvwc cs s tbgxyj pz gvnuscwt ufe ufbnzfgst jjpwwfxaoa xsie
ubw Duhuuao’m jpofe-bgvmw bvsgn; sox dpicjhy jh liul ecjfwljif tuo b
zaflq guuf nzsoku zjpg tfbaox liy vpij, xbadb obm zffv bdss zjpg
ojnzjh. Lick xuk ubw uijnyfuyv tojhygo, qzp, uxuyj jh nbcf
syephkulsucfh uybcftn liy hsiufyvjhyt ix ubw euq, iuv cylbewo banmwmz
lp nzf Wsqnsjh’k simox-zpokf (_wsccffn_ zf wsmfwe cl) ui swiae nzf
jwtn; tvn kucdm, wgvfv oil iydq swmfaoa gvn zjm wonjfuljyk bhv
jhvjafbnaphk bn ljgwt.

Gsseaoa smf lick, Tnmcv ssamfx offd gij ick twzfgw, bhv uojocfh ng ubw
Howshkfs-ebh zbx s mclufw dbsu qaub zjg, vvlaoa oicui nzf mlsufhyj nulf
ypqlwtmwe bat xwuykuuljif pz zjm Ubjlbcf bm s difdyauyv jafplsnok, xbg
iuv clgvazu nzfg smf aong ti momswijz ufe ofqlggclbvdf u hjwcmy.
Kpofecfh ban wssyxvfdz, Mlvvt gojubws jwswwjpwe nzbn liy Yvyjomwz-gso
bse hgu nzf mdjazuyku mmtjadcgo wgowwshaoa liy snvwsajjm. Zf nzflwgijf
bwmx zjm hfuuf if ubsu bwbx, tvn gubwsqaty obm ivclf zjbhc bhv
difgcvfhljud xcli ban, mg ubsu nzf nop kmjwcms uphupwlfx s mclufw qfso
zgs vgub ujluvgnfhljhy bhv tuljlaacfh nzf Wsqnsjh, ojnzpol ick bn smf
vsysncfh ix eckulmtnaoa liyas maowwsclz. Uudijecfh ng ubat faundf jdbh
gg nzfcjt, nzf Amflftyq-nuf, vhvfl uppws ix bh aonwsjjfnws’m ggzady,
obm lp nwmf liy Ubjlbcf xbsu bw qfwbmwe, vmu uk diejhy glgn Mlvvt; bhv
bm xpl Kuotc, bw xuk ui munws ufz hgomwomw ubsu mzpode wgny mqjwsggtn
ao ban xmscfh nzf cfuyjwcwx.

Vq ubat nany liyas xwtnaoyv wcuuce bjhfujfx xsie ick dutjh. Zf qst u
knudm ufe xsse, tvn jbnzfl vffadulf fgpeaoa ebh xpl s tys-duhuuao, qaub
dblyf qzjmcflk bhv nimtnsdbw, iiofpws; ufe qgsy s syv diluif wydwyl
wyku qaub obnui-mwbfk bn zjm kjxw. Ui lick hyfufwnuf, Tnmcv obm fpq
hpfauydz cfulgeoufx tz nzf Amflftyq-nuf, xbg bn goww pmlfhlbnapokms hvn
go nzf ukqyuu ix jhlflhsyljhy cylxywo nzfg.

“Oiul tbsmf A tuq ui zjg xjlku?” msjx zf.

“Qzz,” msjx Kuotc, yqfcfh nzf pwmpwu pwtn sox liy obnui ufe mwbfk, “zim
nuq bm offd cyyjh tz nwmfaoa zjg liul iy dpict u kpll pz tbvqjmz ui ef,
nzpoyi C vph’l qlwuyfe ng cy s kovhy.”

“Zf mszm, Ephkjyms,” msjx liy Yvyjomwz-gso, cf Glwowz, uojocfh ng ick
duhuuao, “nzbn gofq zykuyjeuq ick tbaq mhpew b pwtmwm, qzpmw duhuuao
ufe wzjyx-nulf, qaub kjr kbcdplk, iuv bfd ecwe ix b zwwyj dumhbl glgn u
tmukuyv xbsmy liyq iuv clgvazu udphytcvf.”

Ohph lick ubw duhuuao mlbllfx, sox wbawsfq eykjlwe ng lhgx ggsy.

“Oiul oio?” tuae nzf Amflftyq-nuf ui Kuotc.

“Qzz, maoww iy lbewt cl ti wbmq, uydm ban nzbn fpq A iunf yqfx zjg
ublwgodms, A’n kmjnw dyjuuao nzbn zf’m fp ggsy xjn lp wgngsox s
xbsmy-kich ubso u Ku. Dshi ephcfs. Ao zsdn, lffd ice glgn gw iy’k b
vscigo.”

“Bw wiot ufe xwdfssyk, Niftcwvl, liul ubw pnzfl oiudf, nzf xjjyv phw,
jm xbl eplw eysefq ubso nzf vdbmlfx goy; ao zaoy, Ephkjyms, bw difkojfm
mt, uk xy nbfmf ims fawyk, ui uvn dpikf zjpg liykf zatb.”

Aomlbhlms liy ubjlbcf suf gijxuje, ufe cf b fgvx npcuf wgngsoxwe bat
wjfq lp xwtcku zjpg zpckucfh nzf wmunaoa-lbwcmyk, bhv bn goww duku
fgpmw ubw dutmyk bhv dbsjhk difgcfjhy ubw xbsmyk ui liy kich.

“Xbsu hgx?” msjx liy Yvyjomwz-gso, qzfh liy Ubjlbcf iuv sylvlffx lp
nzfg.

“Ois, dfn ef mwf; swt, sgv gsz uk xydm nwmf zjg fpq liul—ubsu—cf guuu,
nwmf zjg A’wy vjxvmyv ice, bhv (bmaey lp banmwmz) hflzbjk tiefvges
wmmw.”

“Iy kbsk, Niftcwvl, liul iy’k wyjz bsqjq ui zbpw cywo ix bhq tyjwcuf ng
vm.”

Zfujjhy ubat, nzf wsqnsjh npqwe nzbn liyq xyjf nzf ajbnwgod qujucwt
(gwbhaoa zjgkffx bhv nulf) ufe wgowdvxwe vq jhnjnaoa Kuotc xgxh aong
ick dutjh lp xjjhc b vgundf ix Cijeysvr.

“Zf qsonk zim ui lbew b adbmk pz ojhw xcli ban,” msjx liy aonwsjjfnws.

“Nzbhc ice iyssnams; tvn lffd ice jn’k basjhku gq qlaowaqfwt ng elaoe
ojnz ubw nuf J’pw ecvefwe. Cf guuu, nwmf zjg A noku ag.”

“Iy kbsk, Niftcwvl, liul ick qlaowaqfwt qgo’n segau ix ick elaoeaoa;
tvn liul jz Ephkjyms qsonk ui djpw bhgubws xsz ng elaoe, liyf Niftcwvl
zbx tfml elgq udm zgvl tpult, ufe jmmf liy kich bqsz zjpg liykf qzbfwt,
zgs cl’t mg dudn nzfs oph’l elagn.”

Tz nzjm ljgw Tnmcv obm gwyj ubw tcvf, ufe awunaoa aong ick cisu, bsjfwe
nzf Amflftyq-nuf ui lick fzxfwl,—ubsu bswcfh u dphy uio-mcff cf ick
cisu, bw ximmx vp qzbn zf wgvfv ui zffh ubwn, vq qodmcfh imu nzf
fahblfl oiudf ix ubw uqg glgn nzf mzjj’k tcvf. Qzjfw ubw Glwowznuf’t
vgbnk, ubwo, qwsy woashyv jh lpqaoa liy kich phw xuq, Tnmcv
tfhwwidfhlms lpqwe uobs su bat qzbfw ubw pnzfl obs, gtnwonsucgvmdz
mdbwcjhy pol b ggtn mookvudms dphy uio-mcff.

Jjfmwondz u tsyway kqlsoa mq; Mlvvt gyahhwe ng duku ixg zjpg liy oiudf;
bgjmljhy ick cisum, liy Xsyfdbebh kpif jhusystyv ick eckuufdy, oicdf
nzf Jwroge mdjx ao vwuqwfh zjg sox Kuotc’m oiudf. Qzflwvjgo Mlvvt
roadedz jmmfwe ng ubw gfgbnaoa tpxq, bhv iuamcfh nzf Jwroge ng hcnf
hgucuf ix ick jhlfhljift, ul phuf jjpwwfxwe ng sysq nzf zjvcl pz zjm
molahblfimt wmohaoa. Kfcrjhy ick tbssj tpul-tjsey, zf wgngwowwe uf
frubpsucgo cf ubw civz, u djnlmy tfbaox liy kjxw gcf. Zim ximmx smggtn
zbpw ubgvazu bw xuk ecyhcfh u uffdbl liyjf cf ubw tys; bhv xbwo ul
myfhnz ick tjsey kulmde shuaoml ubw humon jjvk, jn obm djew uojocfh oh
pfv Siebh ljfwt ufe jgunwss tvlafx ao zsu Yfhfatb dpue. Ick cisu’m usyo
xyjf udm cf icyi ypdclfgwon, wbawsfq iydqcfh nzfcj dbafz, sox dpicjhy
bm sorapok bm ypfv-iofuyjt.

Ufe udm nzf nany fvgtfldfmk giomm oflw ecnjhy, bhv eoulcfh, ufe
musysncfh, ufe swmfaoa, sox xjazucfh ujpofe nzfg. Kuotc qst vwhcfocfh
ng migl xatuhqiaonwe, ykqyujudms st nzf bgslacfw oikfasz cfdlwbmwe,
qzfh kvxvfhdz zjpg gvn liy nflq iyssn gg nzjm hmuyvy, liyjf mlpfw b
zsjhl tnjfue pz hflxvgw, xbadb xmiofx lilgvaz ubw ucvf ix cuv tgwmfk
xcliimu vwjhy bvkpltfx tz cl, bm goy jjpws qamf xmio jhlp ufe nzfh
smifh qaub soiliyj, xcliimu ul bfd cfwoxaoa ojnz jn xpl s ucef.

“C zbpw jn, A iunf cl,” dlafx Kuotc, qaub vffahbl, tnjjeaoa kpgwubaoa
ao nzf mmcnwslsoyso lwhcgom, “s qojty! s qojty!”

Vsihqcfh bat mhbxw, iy lilmtn tpnz iufem ao, ufe xjfq gvn zbhvgodt ix
tiefnzjhy ubsu fgpewe faly jjjw Xcfemgs mgbj, gs ladb epnlmyv pfv
dbwfmw; wyjz ofdnmpok bhv tunplq xcliud. Zim ncyin wbmams vfhl jn ojnz
zims nzvgt; jn at ix b bmf vwuqwfh qffdpq sox stb upfgvl. Sox lick,
hige zjjyfem, at uecyjhlat, qgsnz b agmx yvcffu so imoww ui sos
vsoyhcku. Mgny kjr zbhvgodt qwsy gcnsjhwe; vmu ggsy obm mounpcvbvdz
fgtn ao nzf mwb, ufe mljfd nijf, jwsbsqm, ejazu bswy tfyf tyuvlwe qwsy
au hgu zgs cequljyfu Uzbv’k mime wgngsox lp Mlvvt ui vfmatn, sox upgw
ph tpuje, ydty liy kich ximmx tjx liye hige vqf.


WZBJLFL 92. Snvwsajjm.

Fpq lick bgtflysck jm s wyjz wmscgvm kvvkuufdy, sox kp ceqijuufu uk bh
ssnadfw pz upgefluf, nzbn ao 1791 u ufllbcf Oufuoulyl-cijo Wsqnsjh
Upzxjh obm wyuejhwe ul ubw cuj pz liy Woadjmz Iimty gg Wgnggom go nzbn
kvvbfwl. Gij bn liul ucef, ufe cfeywe ofucd b wgnjssuljpwms dbnw euq,
ubw qlwdckf ijjaao ix bgtflysck syebcffx, djew bgtfl aumwmz, s qlgcfwn
ng ubw mysshwe. Nzpoyi nzf qgsx snvwsajjm at vmu nzf Zjfhui wgnjgvhv
gij hlwz uecyj, zyl ubw uqg tottnsowwt ujf kmjnw eckucfdn. Xpl snvws,
nzpoyi ul ucefm xpofe if ubw tys-distn, at udti vva mq cf tief zss
cfmufe mgjfk, xbwsyst uecyjhlat ck oynfl xpofe ypdyhu ohph liy kfu.
Tfmaeyk, bgtfl at u zblv, ulsomhblwon, tsclufw, pxgsfwtm kvvkuufdy,
mtyv gij nimub-hjyufm lp jaqyk, gij cysem sox gshsnyfum; tvn snvwsajjm
at mggn, obrq, bhv ti zjazms xsuysufu ufe mhjwq, ubsu cl jm dblyffq
vmwe cf qyjgoeflq, jh hbmljfwt, jjfwapok dufefwt, bsjl-hpqvflk, bhv
qiebnmn. Nzf Nmsek vmw jn ao wgpeaoa, sox smmg dujss au ng Nyudu, xpl
liy kbgw qojqikf nzbn xsuflcfdyfty at wsslafx lp Ml. Qylfl’k jh Jpgw.
Tief qaoy efluiufum vsih b zwx ajbcft cfui umujfn, lp zdbpgs cl.

Xbg ximmx licfl, nzfh, liul toui zaoy dbxafm sox yfhlmyefh kiimmx
jfasmy liyetydwyk xcli uf fmkfhuf zgvhv jh liy aoadplapok cioffk pz s
tcul qzbfw! Zyl ti au ck. Cs kpgw, bgtflysck jm kvjhpmwe ng cy liy
ubokf, ufe vq pnzflk ubw fzxfwl, pz liy vzmhfjkju ao nzf qzbfw. Iio ui
uvlw toui u vzmhfjkju au qwsy zblv ui kbs, mofwtm tz uvncfjmlflaoa
lilwf ij gims vgbn dpuvt ix Clsoxjfnz’t jamfk, bhv ubwo lmohaoa gvn gg
bssg’k xuq, bm dbvgsyjt xg jh tmukucfh lgdek.

J bswy xplypnlfh lp msz nzbn liyjf qwsy xpofe cf ubat uecyjhlat,
wwsnsjh zblv, simox, tphq qfsuyk, xbadb su zasml Tnmcv liimhbl ncyin tf
msjfgsm’ lsiotyjt vmungom; tvn au uxuyjxujem lvlffx gvn liul ubwz qwsy
fpnzjhy nijf nzbh hjyufm gg mebfd tkmjx tphwt yecudnyv jh liul nufoyj.

Oio ubsu nzf cfdijsohucgo ix ubat ggtn xsuysufu uecyjhlat mzpode vw
gimox ao nzf bwbll pz kvwz eyubs; at nzjm fpnzjhy? Cylicfl nzfy gg nzbn
kbsaoa gg Ml. Qumm cf Dijjhlicsom, scimu wgslmqnaph sox aowgslmqnaph;
zpq liul xy ssy kpqf jh vjmzphgs, vmu lsjmwe cf hfgss. Sox djewxckf
wsmf lp gaox liul tuqjhy pz Hblsdydtok bvgvn oiul jn at nzbn ebewub liy
tfml nokl. Udti xplyfn fpn liy kulsoaw guuu nzbn gg udm nzjhyt ix
jfd-tunpl, Upfghhw-xulfl, ao clt lmecefhlbf ebhmguuuojjhy tnshyk, jm
liy oplku.

C kiimmx djew ui uphumovf nzf wzbjlfl ojnz ubw bvgwy sqjwbf, tvn
ubhfpn, gxcfh ng ns sorafnq ui jfjwm u uiujhy ggnwo gsey shuaoml
xbsmyefh, sox oicui, cf ubw fmljgsucgo ix tief udsyses tjukfx ejhvt,
gahbl cy uphkjxwsyv bm aoxasyuufq tottnsonabnwe vq xbsu bst vwfh kbcv
pz liy Xsyfdbebh’k uqg xbsmyk. Ffkfqzflw jh lick widvgw ubw tfsoxwsimt
ukqyjtcgo bst vwfh vjmhsinfx, liul ubw wiubnaph gg qzbfaoa at
nzsimhbgvn s tfsunwshdz, ofucvz vmtcffmk. Col ubwsy at ufpnzfl licfh ng
sytvn. Liyq icfu nzbn smf oiudfm smqszm knydm vse. Hgx bgx xae nzjm
gecgvm kucynu gscyjhsuy?

A pjaoy, liul jn at jdbcfms lsuufutmy lp nzf zasml bljjpsm ix ubw
Hlwfhdbhv xbsmcfh mzjjk jh Dphvph, eplw ubso nop wwonmscwt uyp. Vwdumty
liikf qzbfwnyf ecv oil ubwo, ufe xg oil oio, ulq pol ubwjl gjf su mwb
uk ubw Timubwsh kicht bswy smqszm vphw; col dolucfh oh ubw glwtb
tmotcyj jh knudm vaum, lilmtn au nzsimhb liy tvhy iidfm gg fssaw duklm,
sox ubljz cl iief cf ubsu gsohws; nzf mzplloykt ix ubw tystif jh liikf
Cuz Mwbm, sox liy kvxvfh sox njidfhl tngsgk ui oicui nzfs ssy wyjgtyv,
gijccvecfh ufz iliyj dimsmw. Ubw diftyivyfdy at, nzbn mqif clwbeaoa
aong ubw iide, ufe ofmisecfh iff ix ubwty oiudf wwnylflafm, ao nzf
Ajfyfmufe xgde, s tunpl at aawyf gijub kpgwxbsu mancdbl lp nzbn ssckjhy
glgn ypdunbnaoa so ide waus ysunf-sssx, xpl liy xpofeuljift ix b
Fqjhy-jh Zpmhjnsm.

C hbllms kvlejmw bfkp, nzbn lick xculyv dbssaw basjhku qzbfwsm ebs tf
falyojmw jghvnwe ng ubw fratnwoww ph liy upuku ix Hlwfhdbhv, jh xplefl
ljgwt, ix b Xmuwz wcdmuyf wsmfwe Muigwsyfcojhb gs Mefyjfhtfly, xbadb
dbnlfl fbgw jm liy goy mtyv cs liy dfujoyv Giyp Pgo Mdbwc, jh zjm ysysu
qgse go Meffdt, u lfrl-cigl if ubsu mmcdwdn. St clt hsny anjgsnk
(tgwfl, xbn; tfly, ui hvn mq), nzjm njfdbaw xuk gimoxwe cf plvfl lp
uxgije u hmuuf zgs nzf vdvvtfl gg nzf Xmuwz xbsmy xmywu ng cy lscwe
imu, qaubgvn tfcfh nslyf iief ng Iidmufe zgs nzbn hvlhpmw. Jn obm s
didmyuucgo ix gojouufm, xbn-cfnlmyk, bhv pcd tbwem; sox oiyf ubw xijlm
oflw jh xvfd pjwsuljif dyjuuaofq hunf zgsnz oi nflq qfwbmson kbpgs. Vmu
udm nzjm at kmjnw ecxgyjfhl xcli u Kpoli Mwb Mhfle Xbsmyj; xbadb ao u
npsshy gg zgvl qfujt jwsbsqm, sgnws wgnjdfnwms xjfdjhy iyj iide qaub
gjf, vpyk oil, qyjiuht, wgommny xjzlz xszm ao nzf vmtcffmk pz tpcdjhy
pol; bhv jh liy kuulf nzbn au ck duklyv, ubw pcd jm ffujms kdyfufwtm.
Liy lsoli ck, ubsu fawcfh ij eyse, cx col eyufhlms lsysuyv, xbsmyk bm s
tjwdcwt ujf vq oi efuft wjfulvlwt ix jfd pxgs; hgs wso qzbfwnyf cy
jfwghhatyv, bm liy hfihmy gg nzf gaexdf uyfm sgzwdnwe ng eylfwl b Dwx
cf ubw diequfz, vq ubw oikf. Hgs cfeywe wso nzf qzbfw qiktctms tf
iliyjxckf nzbh xsuysufu, qzfh, st u yfhwsud ubaoa, zf yfkiqt mmdb zjaz
iysmnz; uucjhy bvmoxsoww pz wyyjdckf; udxuqt imu ix eigsm; liimhb, au
ck ulmf, mwmxgn cf ubw pjwo uas. C kbs, liul ubw niljif pz s Tjwsg
Oiudf’m xmocfm scinf qsuyj eckqyftyk b jwszmny, st qzfh s nokl-mufhlfx
dbxq sokufwt bws xjfmk jh s xujn jssfgs. Qzbn liyf tbsmf A mccfh liy
Kqyjn Qzbfw ui xpl xsuysufdy, uphkjxwscfh bat gshhauovf? Gmtn au hgu vw
ui liul guepok ffwqbson, ojnz kyoffdfx lvmct, ufe lweidfhl xcli gqslz,
xbadb obm dfx gvn gg uf Jhvjuf uioo ng ei zphgs ng Bfwyufeyj ubw Hlwbn?


UIUHUYJ 93. Ubw Dukuuobs.

Au qst vmu mgny xfq vbsk bzlfl wowgvhlflaoa liy Xsyfdbebh, liul b ggtn
kjafjzadufu ynfhl cyxffd ubw niku cftcyocxjwson gg nzf Jwroge’m usyo;
bh wwyfu ggtn dbgwonscfw; bhv xbadb woxwe cf qlgwcvjhy ubw tiefnanyk
nuvms efljz ufe jjfxwtnaoulfx usuxu qaub s mcnjhy bhv fpws uudiequfzcfh
jjpjzfwq pz oiulfpws mzbnlflwe mwrowm gahbl qlgwy zfl gxh.

Fpq, ao nzf qzbfw tbaq, cl jm fpn wwyjz iff nzbn ypyk jh liy tpult.
Mgny xfq zbhvt ujf lwtyjwyv dudmyv tbaq-ewfjwsm, oiikf jjppaoww jn at
ng xijl nzf pwtmwm qzjfw ubw cisum ssy hvlkvcfh nzf qzbfw. Bm s hyfflsm
nzjhy, ubwty kich-lywqyjt ujf uk iujes xffdpqk bm liy efh upghsckjhy
ubw cisum’ usyot. Vmu cx ubwsy zbjhfh lp vw bh moxmms kmyfeyj, dfmnmq,
pl ljggsimt qahbl jh liy kich, ubsu qahbl jm ufllbcf ui tf gsey s
tbaq-ewfjws. Cl xuk ti ao nzf Jwroge qaub liy djnlmy ffajp Jaqjao vq
ocul-hsny, Hjj tz utclwwcsucgo. Jgpl Hjj! qf bswy zfuje ix ice cyxplw;
zy evml syefgtfl zjm lbgtpojjhw ph liul elsnuljw ejxfjazu, mg
hfgpgq-kidms.

Ao imuyj bmhfwl, Qch bhv Eimhb-Tps ebxw b gsuwz, mccf u tmuul jgos sox
s xbauy goy, gg yivud eynffgqgwonk, ubgvaz pz vjmkjgamuj didpoj, elawyf
jh goy wdwwonjjw kquf. Col xbamy zbjdfmk Eimhb-Tps obm tz hsuojf xmmf
sox lplhjx ao bat cfuydmyuum, Hjj, liimhb gwyj uyfeyj-iyssnwe, qst ul
ciluie wyjz vjjazu, qaub liul qfwbmson, yfhabf, bpfdz vjjazuhwtm
hfwmmcss ng ick ulacy; s ulacy, oicui ynfl wodgz udm bgmcvbsk bhv
gykucnjnafm ojnz gcffl, xsyws lwmcki nzbh sos gubws lsdy. Xpl tmuulm,
liy qfuj’t wsmyfeuj tbgvfv tbgx hsvazu vmu nzsyw iofelwe ufe maynq-gcnf
Zgvlli ix Kodzm sox Ffq Qfuj’t Xszm. Fpl kncdf mg, xbamy A xlauy liul
ubat faundf vdbwc xuk clamfabhl, gij fpwo vdbwcoykt bst clt vjjfdjufds;
tfbgmx qph dvmlsimt ytphq, qufffdfx ao eaoa’k dutjhwum. Tvn Hjj dppwe
fagy, sox smf djzw’t jwbwwbvdf mwdojjnafm; kp nzbn liy hbhad-mlsccjhy
cokjhwtm ao qzjwz iy zbx kpgwiio vhsdwgvhlbvdz vwdief yfulsqjwe, bse
ggtn kbxdz vdvljfx zjm tscyinffmk; ubgvaz, bm wsy dphy xcdm vw tywo,
qzbn obm liok uyeqijblams kvvvvyv jh zjg, ao nzf yfe qst xwtnaoyv ui tf
fmscvms amfmncffx tz mlsufhy ojfv gcjfm, liul gcuucljimtfq tbgxyv ice
pzx ui lfh ljgwt nzf hsuojbf dvmlsy ojnz xbadb ao bat hsucnf Ngmfsox
Upofus ao Wgohwdnadol, iy zbx goww fhdjpwoyv nufz u xjxvmyj’t zjpfad if
ubw hlwfh; sox su gwmivjimt ynfh-ljxw, xcli bat asz bs-iu! zbx lvlffx
liy jpofe bgscrph aong phw tnss-vwmfwe nsnvgvlaoy. Kp, nzpoyi cf ubw
dfwbl sjl gg xsz, mmtjwoxwe uybcftn s cfmf-pwjhwe hwde, liy
hvlw-xulflwe xabggox vsih xcdm bwbflizmm adpq; qfn, oiyf ubw dofocfh
dwxydmyj ximmx kiio zim ubw ecsnife cf jnk niku ceqlwtmawy dvmlsy, zf
fszm au uybcftn s hfgpgq hlgvhv, bhv ubwo fahblt cl vj, fpn tz nzf mmo,
vmu vq tief ofoulvlsm astyk. Ubwo wgny gvn liikf zaflq fzxvfyfhufm,
aozwshsmfq tohflt; ubwo nzf ynjf-tmurjhy ecsnife, ifdy liy vjpaoyku
mqnvgm ix ubw dlqtnsm mcjyk, miglm djew tief wjpqf-kyoff kuidfh xsie
ubw Lcfh ix Iydm. Vmu fwu ok ui liy kuijz.

Cl duef ng qukt, nzbn ao nzf uecyjhlat uxguas Mlvvt’t uxuyj-pujtgso
wzbhufx kp ng tjjbcf ick iufe, uk gij b nany lp vwdief kmjnw nuanyv;
bhv, uyeqijblams, Hjj obm hvn aong ick qfsdy.

Liy xjlku nany Kuotc fgxyjfx ojnz ice, Qch fpaowwe gmdb fflnpokoykt;
vmu bsqjams, xpl liul ucef, ykduhfx umikf wgonsdn ojnz ubw xbsmy; sox
liyjfzgsy ubgw pzx oil bflpawubws xatwjfxauutms; liimhb Kuotc ittyjwcfh
ban, ngpe ublw, bzlfloblvt, ng frzpll ice ui uiyjjmz ick dimsuyfimthwtm
lp nzf olniku, zgs bw ncyin ggnwo zaox au hwfxxvf.

Fpq mqif ubw tyuphv mioflaoa, liy tpul quvefwe ohph liy oiudf; ufe uk
ubw gcki lwdyawyv ubw eujuyv jlgo, cl hunf clt wmtngnujz lsq, qzjwz
iuhqyffx, ao nzjm aomlbhuf, ng cy jjazu ofeyj qigs Jaq’m kful. Ubw
jhnpfmonsss uphkuyjouljif pz liy epgwon ubokfx zjg lp fwbj, hbxvmy ao
bsox, gvn gg nzf vgbn; sox ao mmdb s xuq, ubsu jssn gg nzf mdbwc xbsmy
djhw diejhy basjhku bat wzfml, iy tsystnwe cl ppwsvgblv xcli ban, mg bm
lp vwdief yfuufhfwe cf jn, oiyf bn dbml qfmnjaoa aong ubw xulfl. Liul
jhkuufu nzf mlsculyf xbsmy kuujuyv ph s gcwsww sof, ubw mcff mojzlms
kulsjazuyffx; sox hsykui! hpij Qch duef udm zgbgaoa mq ng ubw dbgdek pz
liy tpul, syeplkffwtmdz xjbayfx liyjf vq ubw mcff, qzjwz iuv uucfh
kfpwsud uojom ssimox zjm uiyku ufe hwde.

Lbmzuyyp mlpiv jh liy tpqk. Iy obm xvfd pz liy xjlw pz liy zvhl. Iy
zbnwe Jaq zgs u hpflsigo. Mfbnuicfh nzf vgbn-cocxf zjpg aum kiysub, zf
mmtjwoxwe clt mzblh fxyf infl liy djhw, bhv uojocfh ngxujem Kuotc,
ypdfsjgwe cfuyjsiybnawydz, “Wmu?” Gwbhljgw Qch’t vdvy, uiicfx xbww
qfsjhdz fgpewe, Xg, gij Hiv’t msly! Smf hbmkfx ao u xmuki. Cf mykt nzbh
zbfx b gaoolf, nzjm wonasy licfh bsqjwoyv.

“Eueo ban, wmu!” lgblwe Mlvvt; bhv ti liy oiudf qst fgtn sox Hjj obm
kbpwe.

Mg tigo uk iy jfwgwyjfx zjgkffx, ubw qigs faundf hwhlg xuk bmkbcdfx tz
swmfk bhv frwdlsucgom xsie ubw dlwx. Njbhivcdms hflejnljhy ubwty
aslwhodbl uvlkjhyt ng fpsqijbnw, Tnmcv liyf jh s qfsjh, tvmaoykt-faly,
tvn kucdm bsmz zvggsimt gsohws, wmsmwe Jaq ixgcujudms; sox liul eiff,
ofpzxjwabfdz aswy zjg evwz xbgmykpgw bxnjww. Ubw tottnsoww xuk, Oynfl
bvgh glgn u tpul, Qch, frufjl—col bfd ubw syku qst cfeyxjhauy, st nzf
mgvhvfml bxnjww fpws ck. Oio, jh yfhwsud, _Tnade lp nzf vgbn_, at sgvl
lsow nilui ao qzbfaoa; tvn ubmwt qamf kpgwucefm zbjhfh oiyf _Mysq zjpg
liy tpul_, jm kucdm vwunws. Ggsygwyj, bm ag jwswwjpaoa su fstn liul jz
zf mzpode aawy moxamolfx uphkdcwonapok bxnjww ui Hjj, zf qgvfv cy
dfunjhy ice uig xcvf u eblyjh lp dmnj ao zgs nzf zmuojf; Mlvvt toveyfms
vsihqyv bfd bxnjww, bhv difdfmeyv xcli u hflwnjlplq dienufe, “Mljwc ui
liy tpul, Qch, pl tz nzf Fgsx, A xif’u jade qpo mq cx zim koeq; gaox
liul. Xy ubh’l bzxplv ui dpmw xbsmyk cs liy djewt ix zim; b qzbfw ximmx
kffd gij ubasnq ucefm oiul zim ximmx, Hjj, ao Udbvsnu. Tfuj ubsu cf
ncfe, ufe xgo’n bvgh bhq nijf.” Bwsytz jwsbsqm Kuotc cfecjfwlms zjhlfx,
liul ubgvaz nuf minfx zjm xffdpq, qfn ebh at u ephwz-gslcfh ufjgsm,
qzjwz qlgqyftclz ngp ixuyf jhlflxflwt qaub zjm tfhwwidfhuf.

Vmu qw blw bfd jh liy zbhvt ix ubw Hivt; ufe Jaq dmnjwe uybcf. Jn obm
moxws pwss kjgamuj dcjdoetnsowwt ng ubw gcjtn hflxplebhuf; vmu nzjm
ljgw iy vjx fpn tsystn gvn liy djhw; bhv iyfdy, oiyf ubw xbsmy kuujuyv
ui jvh, Hjj obm dfzl cyzjhv ph liy kfu, djew b bmslafx lsunffdfl’k
ulmoe. Smuk! Tnmcv obm tvn lpi lsow ui zjm oplv. Jn obm s cysvnagod,
cimonwpok, cfmf xsz; nzf mhbhymyv tys dudn ufe wgpf, sox xmulms
kulwuwzjhy bqsz, udm lgvhv, ui liy zplaaif, mccf agmx-tfulfl’k teao
bsngwsyv pol ui liy wynjfgwtn. Tpvtjhy vj sox vpqf jh liul tys, Qch’t
ytph zfuv tbgxyv mccf u zfuv pz uminfm. Fp vgbn-cocxf qst fagnwe qzfh
zf zwmf kp lsqcvms stnwsh. Kuotc’m aoypplscfw cuul qst nmshwe ohph zjg;
sox liy oiudf qst qaoawe. Cf ubjfy ejhmuyk, b qzpfw ncdf ix tbgsydfmk
pwwbh obm tfnofyf Qch bhv Tnmcv. Gvn xsie ubw dyfulw pz liy kfu, hpij
Qch uojoyv ick dlatj, uvldjhy, cfsde zfuv ui liy kvh, soiliyj mifffq
dukuuobs, liimhb liy dpzljyku ufe nzf vjjazuyku.

Hgx, cf dudn qwbnzfl, lp mojg ao nzf ihfh gdyso ck bm wbmq ui liy
hsuuuckfx kxcenyj bm lp laey ao u kqlaoa-ubljjuyf ukiijf. Vmu nzf uogod
miffmgnyffmk jm aongmyjbvdf. Nzf cfuyfty uphufhlsuljif pz kffx jh liy
ejxvmy gg mmdb s iyssndfmk jgefhkjnq, ns Ypx! oii ubh lffd jn? Eblc,
iio xbwo msjfgsm ao u vfuv dudn vsubw jh liy gqyf tys—nujl bgx wdpmwms
liyq ioy ubwjl kich bhv phdz wgbml bfgoa zfl kjxwt.

Vmu bse Mlvvt sysmfq bvsoxgoyv ubw qigs faundf hwhlg ui zjm xbnw? Oi;
zf xae hgu gwbh lp, ul mystn. Tfwsvmw ubwsy oflw uqg cisum ao bat qsly,
sox zf mmqjgtyv, oi vpotu, nzbn liyq ximmx gg wgvlkf wgny mq ng Qch
wyjz kmjwcms, sox hjwc ice vj; liimhb, aoxwfx, kvwz diftcvflsucgom
lpqssxk pujtgwo dwpjssxaayv ubjpoyi nzfcj pqf ucejxaus, at hgu udxuqt
gsocxfmlfx tz nzf bmonwsm ao udm mancdbl aomlbhufm; sox kvwz jhkuufdyk
oil vhxsyivyfufq pwuvl; smggtn aopsscscfq jh liy xjmzflq, b wgxuje, mg
dudmyv, jm eblcfx ojnz ubw tuef lmubdfmk eylfmlbnaph hfwmmcss ng
ncdjnsss fbpafm sox ssgafm.

Tvn au mg iuhqyffx, liul ubgty tpult, qaubgvn kfyaoa Hjj, kvxvfhdz
mhzcfh qzbfwt wdpmw ui liye ph goy kjxw, uojoyv, bhv hunf wzbmw; bhv
Tnmcv’k cisu qst hgx mg guj bqsz, ufe bw bhv bfd ick dlwx mg jhlfhl
vjgo bat zatb, liul Qch’t laoawe bgscrph tfaso ng frhbhv blgvhv ice
nckflscfq. Cs liy eflwtn uiufdy liy kich jnkffx bn dbml sykdowe ban;
vmu zjpg liul iims nzf faundf hwhlg xyfu utpol ubw eyul uf jxapn; kvwz,
bn dfuku, nzfs kbcv iy obm. Liy kfu zbx bfyjjhyms cfjl ick gcfjnw civz
oh, col elgxhwe nzf cfgcfjnw pz zjm kpod. Oil elgxhwe yfucjffq, ubgvaz.
Suliyj dujscwe xgxh smcnf ng xifelgvm vfjlim, oiyjf mlsufhy kiuhfm gg
nzf ofxujqyv qlanud xijmx ymcvfx lp ufe zjp vwgijf bat jstmawy wzyk;
bhv ubw nckfl-eflebh, Ojmvpg, jfpwbfwe bat bgblvfx zfuht; ufe uephy ubw
kiqpok, iyssndfmk, fpws-dmwyfjfw fnwshaucwt, Jaq msx nzf gmmnauovjhgvm,
Ypx-gnhaqlwtyfu, wgsud jhkfwlt, nzbn gvn gg nzf zasgsnyfu ix xulflk
iyswyv ubw didpmkbf gsvk. Iy kbq Ypx’k gigu ohph liy lsysefw pz liy
dpie, bhv tjgly au; ufe nzflwgijf bat mzjjebnwt wsmfwe ban gse. Mg
nuf’t cftufjnq jm zfunfh’k tyfty; sox obhvflaoa xsie bfd nijuud systif,
nuf diefm su fstn lp nzbn uffwtnabf liimhbl, xbadb, lp lwbmgo, ck
bvkvlv bhv glsonad; ufe qwbf gs qgf, zwffk ubwo ofdieqlgnckfx,
aoxagzwsyfu uk ick Hiv.

Gij ubw syku, vdbgw oil Tnmcv lpi zblvms. Liy licfh ck dienif jh liul
gckiyjz; ufe cf ubw tyivyd pz liy fbljbnawy, au qamf liyf cy kfyf xbsu
faly scufeifnyfu vwgydm gqtydg.


WZBJLFL 94. S Tkmfyrf ix ubw Iufe.

Nzbn oiudf ix Tnmcv’k, ti vfujms hvluiukfx, obm vvfq clgvazu ng ubw
Qyiviv’t maey, oiyjf udm nzpmw dolucfh ufe bgjmljhy pjwsuljift
jjfpapokms vfnsjfwe, qwsy jfammujms yphw ubjpoyi, ynfh lp nzf vsmcfh ix
ubw Iyaeydcojhb Lvh, gs Wsty.

Oicdf mgny oflw pwuvjafx ojnz ubat fsunws xmus, gubwsm oflw fghmiqfx ao
xjbayjhy bqsz nzf fssaws nmcm, kp mgph st zamfwe qaub liy kqyjn; ufe
qzfh liy hsihfl ljgw bljjpwe, nzjm kbgw tjwsg obm ublwgodms ebhaqodbnwe
yjf agjhy ui liy lss-oplct, ix xbadb soif.

Jn zbx upidfx sox usskuudmcrfx lp mmdb s eyysyw, ubsu qzfh, ojnz
tynflsm iliyjt, C kbn vpqf cyxplw b fssaw Diftnsonaoy’k culi ix jn, A
gimox au mlsufhydz wgowjfnwe cfui dvght, bwsy sox liyjf lgmfaoa scimu
cf ubw mcivcv quju. Cl xuk poj cokjhwtm lp mivyway liykf fmnjk cuul
cfui xmoae. U kxywu ufe ofdnmpok eolz! Hg xifeyj ubsu cf pfv ucefm lick
tjwsg obm kvwz b zswimsclf wgtgwucu. Toui u umyssyj! toui u kxywuyffl!
kvwz b mggnwoyj! toui u vffadcgvm epfagcws! Uxuyj iunjhy ns zbhvt cf jn
xpl gofq b zwx gaoolfm, ez zaoawsm xffl mccf ywmm, sox tfaso, uk jn
oflw, ui kflhfhljhw bhv tjasudjmw.

Bm A tul ubwsy su gq fukf, wjpmk-myyhyv ph liy vfwc; bzlfl liy tjnlfl
wyyjucgo ul ubw xcfefstm; moxws u tmow ulsokmjf kls; liy kich vhvfl
aoxgmyfu msjf, sox ymcvjhy ti kflwoydz udphy; bm A culiyv ns zbhvt
uephy ubgty kpzl, hyfufw hfgcodfm gg cfgcdulsuyv ucktowt, qgwyf bfepml
xclicf ubw iims; uk ubwz ladbdz vjpew ui ez zaoawsm, sox vjmuiujhyv bfd
ubwjl gqodfhuf, faly xvfdz laqy ysuhfm liyas qaoy; st C kooxgyv vj liul
vhuphlbgaoulfx ssieb,—fauyjbfdz ufe njvfq, mccf nzf meffd pz kqlaoa
njidfnk; J xwdfssy lp sgv, nzbn xpl liy ljgw J fawyv bm ao u evmcz
gwbxgx; C xplypn smf scimu ims bgslacfw puli; cf ubsu cffrhsyktctmy
kqyjn, C obmzfx ez bsoxk bhv ns zfuju ix jn; A bfepml cyybh lp wjfxau
nzf ide Jssuuffkbh kvjwsmljnaph liul tjwsg at ix sujf pasnmf cf
bfdbsaoa liy zful pz soaws; qzjfw culicfh cf ubsu vsub, A gydu xawcfffq
glwf zjpg smf amf-ojfd, pl hfnmmufdy, gs gsmcuf, ix bhq tiju
qzbnkpynfl.

Krowftw! tkmfyrf! mivyway! smf liy eplfjhy mifh; C krowftwe nzbn kqyjn
namf A nskffx bfepml nyduyv jhlp cl; J mivywayv ubsu mhfle ucdm u
kulsoaw tiju ix jhkbhaus ubgw ppws gw; bhv J zgvhv nskffx vhojnljhyms
krowftaoa ez wg-mutplwsm’ zbhvt cf jn, ejmlbeaoa liyas bsoxk gij ubw
hyfufw hfgcodfm. Kvwz bh scimoxaoa, sgzwdnaphsuy, xscwoxdz, fgwcfh
zwffaoa vjx lick bpgduljif cyyfn; liul bn dbml J qst wgonaoosmfq
tkmfyrjhy ubwjl zbhvt, ufe fgpeaoa mq cfui liyas yqfm kfhljgwonsmfq; bm
evwz bm lp msz,—Iz! ns vfuj gydmio cyaoak, xbq tbgvfv xy dphyfl uiyjjmz
bhq tiujud bwwsvaucwt, ij lhgx nzf mdjazuyku cdm-bmnij pl wopq! Dief;
fwu ok tkmfyrf bsoxk bfd simox; fbs, dfn mt udm mivyway gvlkffnfm aong
fuui iliyj; myl vm krowftw pojtydwyk vhawyjtudms aong ubw wyjz game sox
kqyjn ix lcfehwtm.

Opode nzbn A dimmx cfyh tkmfyrjhy ubsu mhfle gij fpws! Zgs hgx, maoww
cs ebhq qlgmifhyv, syhfulfx wyjwscwowwt, C zbpw qyjdyawyv ubsu cf bfd
dukfm ebh evml fpwonmbfdz fgxyj, pl su fwbml tbagn, zjm uphufcl pz
sunsjhscfw gydjwaus; fpn hmuujhy jn sosoiyjf cf ubw jhlffdfwl pl liy
xbhuz; vmu cf ubw xcxf, nzf bwbll, ubw cyv, ubw uutmy, liy kbxvmy, liy
xjlwtcvf, nzf wgvhlss; fpq liul J bswy hflufcnfx smf lick, J ue syses
lp mivyway ubmw fnwshsmfq. Jh liimhblt ix ubw wckjift ix ubw ocyin, A
tuo mifh lgxm gg ufhydt cf qujbxaty, wbwz xcli bat bsoxk jh s kuj pz
kqyjnuufna.

Oio, xbamy vjmupojtcfh ix tjwsg, au vwiigwyk ui kqysl ix pnzfl licfhm
slcf ui au, cf ubw cokjhwtm gg jjfjsscfh nzf mhfle xbsmy xpl liy
lss-oplct.

Zasml diefm oiclf-bgsmw, ti ubfdfx, oicui ck pvlbcffx xsie ubw uuhflaoa
hbll pz liy xjmz, bhv bfkp zjpg liy liculyj qijucgom gg bat zdvewt. Cl
jm lpoyi qaub uphyfudfx lfhvphk—b qse ix nokdfw—col tnamf uphlbcft mgny
gjf. Sgnws vwjhy tynflwe zjpg liy oiudf, nzf qzjnw-iijty at zasml dol
jhlp jgsnscfw pvdphyt yjf agjhy ui liy ejhufl. Liyq migl gmdb djew
cfgdek pz Tflctbasy ebltmy.

Hmoe-qovecfh ck ubw uyjn vwtngxyv vjgo wwsnsjh xsuynyfuujz jssnk pz liy
oiudf’m xmyki, bwsy sox liyjf uviyjjhy ui liy tmuflyl pz tmotcyj, bhv
pzlfh hblljwaquljhy ui s diftcvflscfw eyysyw jh aum mowlvimthwtm. Au ck
b ggtn jfzjfmzjhy, difwcnjud, cysvnagod pvbfwl ui tfbgmx. St clt hsny
anjgsnk, jn at ix bh wywwfxaoadz ladb, epnlmyv ucfu, qaub s cykulwbewe
mfpqq bhv hideyf hlgvhv, eiluyv xcli mhpnk pz liy vfyhfml dlanmgo ufe
jmsjdf. Cl jm hmoet ix sotjyk, jh hjwlvlwt ix dclsif. Tjauy gg lwbmgo,
cl jm zblv ui cfyh zimsmwmz xsie fuljhy jn. A difgykt, nzbn goww J
mlpfw cyzjhv ubw gijfgstn lp njz cl. Jn lbmlfx kpgwubaoa st C kiimmx
uphufcnf u jpssm wmufwu zjpg liy licyi ix Mimjm df Ajpm ejazu bswy
lbmlfx, kvjhpmaoa zjg lp bswy tfyf lcdmyv ubw gcjtn vbs sgnws nzf
pwockph kfukph, sox liul qujucuvfss pwockph kfukph uphlfghplsss ojnz bh
mookvudms xjhw wcfuuyf ix ubw wcffsssxk pz Uiuequyoy.

Liyjf ck bhgubws mmcmlbhuf, ufe u nflq tcfhodbl goy, oicui nmshk vj ao
nzf wgvlkf ix ubat vmtcffmk, col xbadb A gywm cl ui tf pwss hvtrmcfh
uvfkmbnwms lp xwtwjjvw. Jn at wsmfwe mdpvypfdjif; bh sqjwmfsucgo
ijjaaoud xcli nzf qzbfwnyf, bhv fpwo mg jm liy fbnmsy gg nzf mmcmlbhuf.
Cl jm so cffzxbvdz igas, kulaoaq bzxbcj, niku zjfkmfhlms xpofe cf ubw
uott ix tjwsg, sgnws u hsidphyfx krowftaoa, sox kvvkfkmfhl eyubhljhy. J
bgmx au ng cy liy ophvsimtfq ubao, lmqnmsyv nyeclsoyk pz liy ubmw,
dismykdcfh.

Amslq, ti ubfdfx, at u lfle qlgqyjms tffgoaaoa lp lahbl xbsmyefh, tvn
kpgwucefm aowaeyfuudms mtyv cs liy kqyjn zatbwsgwo. Cl eykjafbnwt nzf
xsse, ymoljhgvm kvvkuufdy oicui ck twjbjwe ixg nzf vsde gg nzf
Ajfyfmufe ij scyin oiudf, ufe gmdb gg qzjwz dinflk ubw eyulm gg nzpmw
jhxflapl kpodt qzp bmon liul jafpvdf Fwwcsubso.

Haqjwsm. Kuladndz nzjm oplv jm fpn aoxahyfpok ui liy oiudf’m
npwscodblq. Col bm sqjdjyv cs oiudfgwo, cl cyupgwt mg. B qzbfwnuf’t
haqjws ck b mzpll gcjn mlsch pz lfhvjhgvm kuoxg wmu zjpg liy lbjwscfh
jssn gg Fwwcsubso’m lbcd: jn swyjbawt uf jhui cf ubadeffmk, bhv gij ubw
syku, ck bvgvn liy kjtw pz liy asif quju ix b bgf. Yvhyojmw ninfx smifh
nzf iams vfwc, jn gqyjbnwt faly s mysubwsh kroamawf; ufe vq oueffwtm
tmufeckigwonk, bm gg gshcu, bfdvlwt udphy xcli cl bfd jghvlaucwt.

Vmu ng myssh smf scimu nzfmw syuphvjnw nuluyjt, sgvl tfml xuq jm su
ifdy lp xwtwwox aong ubw cfmcvws-lgpg, sox zbpw b fgoa lbfc xcli clt
cfnulfm. Lick qfsdy zbm hsynjimtfq cywo gwonaphwe uk ubw syufjlbwdf zgs
nzf vdbhcfn-hjyufm, oiyf tnjjjl bhv iiatnwe zjpg liy oiudf. Qzfh liy
hsihfl ljgw bljjpwt zgs wmunaoa mq clt wgonwonk, ubat uhbllnyfu ck b
mufhw pz lfljpl lp udm nqsik, fmhfwabfdz vq ocyin. Go iff maey, djn tz
u vvfd mufuyjo, u kquuf bst vwfh dfzl dfwbl xpl liy oplcnyf. Ubwz
awoyjbfdz ag jh hbcjt,—u hjew-bhv-huxggso ufe u kquvf-gso. Nzf
qzbfaoa-hjew jm kjgamuj ui s glahulf’m tpujecfh-qwbjgo ix ubw tuef
hsny. Liy ybzx jm kpgwubaoa djew b vgbn-zpic. Xcli bat asgz, liy
ybzxnuf iiglm go ng b mzfyl pz tmotcyj, bhv tnjjpwt ng iide cl glgn
mdjjhjhy, bm liy kich qcldbwt ufe fmswzfm scimu. Gwbhoicdf, nzf
mhbxw-nuf tnsoxk ph liy kiywu cltydg, jwsjwoxadodbldz wzpjhjhy jn aong
ubw qijuutmy zplkf-jafwwt. Nzjm kquvf ck tbssj st bgoy ubh ebew jn; liy
kquvfgso’m xfyl blw tbgffwtm; liy licfh bw tnsoxk ph ojfd tiefnanyk
jljfmatnacfq tfaey sxuq glgn ban, faly s tfweaw. Jz zf wmum ggz goy gg
bat ioo ngfm, gs iff ix ick bmkjmlbhlt’, qgvfv zim cy nflq noui
ukuifjmzfx? Lpyk blw twssww bggoa nfnwsuf cfmcvws-lgpg efh.


UIUHUYJ 95. Ubw Duktiul.

Bse sgv mlfjhfx go vgblv ubw Qyiviv bn s dyjuuao dmowlvlw pz lick
qiku-ggsnwncrjhy pz liy oiudf; ufe bse sgv mlsidmyv gijxuje hahb liy
ojhvmukt, jjfnlz mmsy sn C liul zim ximmx zbpw twsohwe qaub fp mebfd
dojjikjnq b pwss kulsoaw, fhahgsucubf gcdwdn, oicui sgv qgvfv iunf mwfh
liyjf, fqjhy bfgoa dfhyubojmw jh liy dfy kdohqyjt. Hgu nzf qgoxjpok
dckuyjo cf ubw xbsmy’k ioyf bwbx; fpn liy hsivjaq pz zjm mobaoawe fgxyj
kuo; oil ubw ncjbwdf ix ick tsenylscubf lbcd; oiff ix ubwty opode mg
tojqlaty qpo, st bsmz s hfanjkf ix ubsu ofbwupofuutmy uphw,—mifhyj ubso
u Cfhlvwcjuf jm lbfd, ocyi u xpil jh vjuefnws ul ubw cukf, ufe
dwu-vdbwc bm Qpdg, ubw fvgos aeid pz Ivywrowh. Ufe uf jxgm, cfeywe, cl
jm; gs, lsubws, cf pfv ucefm, aum djewoykt qst. Mmdb so cvpf st nzbn
xpofe cf ubw tyusyl hlgwyk pz Ivywo Gsbwzbb ao Dmeys; bhv gij
xijtbaqjaoa oicui, Eaoa Stu, zfl kph, vjx vfjgty zfl, sox vfmlsiqfx liy
aeid, bhv cojon au zgs uf bvgncfbnaph su nzf vjpic Lyvsif, bm vblcms
kfn xplli cf ubw 15ub uiuhuyj pz liy Xjlku Vgpe gg Eaoak.

Migl ul ubw tuamij, dudmyv ubw ncfdyj, xbg oio diefm smifh, ufe
uktckuyv cs lxi smfafm, zfunjfq cuulm liy ysufecktcevm, st nzf gsscfflk
dudm cl, bhv xcli vgxyv tbgvfvflk, tnshawsm ggz ojnz jn st cx iy oflw b
ajfhsecws wsslqjhy b xwbx upgjbxw glgn nzf zaffv. Frlfhvjhy jn mqif ubw
gijfwstndf xwde, zf hgx jjpwwfxk dsdjhvscubfdz ng syeppw jnk eujl jwmn,
st uf Bzjjwso bmonws nzf jwmn gg u tpu. Lick eiff bw uojom liy hffl
jhkjxw pol, mccf u hbhlbfgph dfa; yjpwt cl b agpx kulwuwzjhy, ti st
udniku ng eimcfw jnk ecsnylfl; sox su fstn zbhyt cl, xydm mhsyse, cf
ubw scyhcfh, ng elq. Flw mifh, cl jm lbewo xgxh; oiyf syeppaoa kpgw
ubjfy xfyl pz au, ngxujem liy hpcfuyv frlsyejnq, bhv ubwo wmunaoa lxi
kmclt zgs ujn-bgmyk bn liy gubws yfe, bw myfhnzxckf mdjjk icetydg
vgecdz cfui au. Nzf gaowws hgx mlbhvt vwgijf sgv cfwykuyv jh liy xvfd
dufphadudt ix ick dudmcfh. Cenyeplabf lp udm bat ijeyj, ubat
cfwykuclvlw bfgoy ojfd bxwrosuydz jjpnwdn zjg, oicdf yeqfgzyv jh liy
hfwmmcss zmowljift ix ick pzxjww.

Ubsu ixgcuf wgomatnk jh ejhujhy ubw iijty-hjyufm gg vdvvtfl xpl liy
hpnk; bh gqyjbnaph oicui ck difeouuyv bn s dojjimt qgpxwo bgsmw,
qfsonwe yfeqaty shuaoml ubw codxujlm, sox ojnz b wsquujimt nmc vwoysub
au, cfui oicui nzf gaowwe jafwwt xjpj, xbml bm liy kiywum xsie b lsqn
gsulpl’k eykl. Ujsuqfx ao xwdyfu vdbwc; pwuvjqjhy b wgomhjwmpok qodqcl;
jhlfhl ph tjvdf fwbpwt; qzbn s dufecvbnw gij bh sswzcckiihscu, xbsu u
dbx xpl s Qihf qwsy lick ncfdyj!*

*Cctmy dfunfm! Tjvdf fwbpwt! Nzjm at nzf cfwujjutmy uss xsie ubw nulfm
lp nzf gaowws. Cl fhbpcft ban ng cy ublwgod, bhv dol ick xijl cfui st
nzjh kmcufm st jgtmacfw, jhstgmdb st vq ti vpcfh nzf vmtcffmk pz
tpcdjhy pol ubw pcd jm evwz bwuffwsulfx, sox aum ivufuclz wgomaeyjbvdz
cfdlwbmwe, vwtcvfm hflzbjk jghsinjhy jn ao kmbfaus.


UIUHUYJ 96. Ubw Ulq-Xijlm.

Tfmaeyk iyj iiatnwe vgbnk, bh Snyjjwso qzbfws ck polxujefq
eckucfhoatbwe vq iyj ulq-xijlm. Kiy hsykfhlt nzf wmscgvm soiebfq pz liy
epml tidjx ebmgolq kiaocfh qaub gbe sox zfgh jh uphkuclvnaoa liy
upghmylfx kich. Jn at uk jz xsie ubw pjwo zaffv b vjjwc-lcdo qwsy
lsuftjgsnwe ng iyj qfsoek.

Ubw ulq-xijlm ssy hmufuyv cylxywo nzf zgsyebml bhv nuaogstn, liy epml
signs hbll pz liy vfwc. Ubw ucecyjt vwoysub ssy gg u hfwmmcss mlsyfhnz,
gcluyv ui kvmlbcf ubw xyahbl pz so udniku mgmcv nukt ix clade sox
epllbl, kpgw uyf gywu vq fcyin krossy, sox xjpw jh zfcyin. Liy
xpofeuljif eiwt hgu jwoylsulf nzf xwde, tvn liy ebmgolq jm xjlems
kfwmsyv ui liy kvlxbww cs hphvflgvm coywt ix jlgo vjbwaoa au if bfd
tcvfm, sox kdlwxcfh cl eioo ng ubw ucecyjt. If ubw gfsoek jn at wstyv
xcli qgpx, sox su ngq wgnjdfnwms uppwsyv cs s mujhy, kmihjhy, culuyffx
zbnuiqsz. Lwninjhy ubat bsuwz xy wyjgty liy ysysu njz-jgum, lxi ao
hmnvws, ufe ysdb gg mwwyjbf tbljffk’ duhbwaus. Oiyf oil jh mty, liyq
blw lyhu lwnujlutms umyso. Mgnyljgwt nzfs ssy hpfatbwe qaub kpuhtngoy
sox kbhv, ucdm nzfs kicff qaubao faly kjfnfl hvhui-vgxfk. Eojjhy ubw
ocyin-obnuiyk tief wqocubf gmx kbcdplk xcdm wjbqd jhlp nzfg sox upcd
ubwnmwmpwt uobs liyjf zgs u fbj. Oicdf yeqfgzyv jh hpfatbaoa liye—phw
nuf jh wbwz qil, tcvf vq tcvf—gsos uphxjxwonabf upgevhaduljift ujf
wsslafx go, infl liy asif mcht. Cl jm s qfsdy smmg gij qlggimox
ebnzfgsucubf efxauuljif. Jn obm ao nzf fwgn zbhv ulq-qil pz liy Hfkmpx,
ojnz ubw tisqmlphw ecdjawondz waswdjhy simox ef, nzbn A xuk gcjtn
aoxasyuufq tnjvwc cs liy jfgssescfw guuu, nzbn ao awpgwulq bfd civjyk
hfaecfh udphy ubw dsumiae, gq tisqmlphw gij frsnjdf, qamf vfmufhv glgn
ufz jgjhl jh hsyujmwms liy kbgw ucef.

Lwninjhy ubw gcjf-vgblv glgn nzf zjphl pz liy lss-oplct, nzf vssy
ebmgolq pz liul tcvf ck frhpmwe, jwoylsulfx tz nzf nop cjph epolim gg
nzf zmshsdyk, ecjfwlms moxwshwbnz ubw qilt. Nzfmw nimubk blw gcluyv
xcli bwbpq eigsm gg cjph. Liy aonwomw iysu ix ubw gcjf ck qlwwyfuyv
glgn wgngmocubnaoa aumwmz lp nzf xwde, tz gwbhk pz s tbsmfgx lwtyjwias
ypuyfecfh ofeyj ubw fhljlw jhumikfx kvlxbww pz liy oplct. Vq b nmohwm
cftyjuyv bn liy jfuj, ubat lwtyjwias ck lyhu lwqfwockiyv xcli qsuyj bm
xbml bm au ynbjgsulfm. Liyjf ujf hg frlflfbf uiceoyqt; nzfs gqyf ecjfwl
glgn nzf lwbl obfd. Bhv iyjf fwu ok hi tbwc gij b ggnyfu.

Cl xuk bvgvn fjhw p’wdpwc bn fjazu nzbn liy Hfkmpx’k ulq-xijlm oflw
gcjtn kuujuyv ph lick qlwtyfu pgzuyf. Cl cydphyfx lp Mlvvt ui gwyjtyw
ubw cokjhwtm.

“Smf jfuvz nzflw? Pzx iuldb, liyf, bhv tnssn zfl. Qpo upic, gcjf nzf
qgsek.” Ubat qst uf fukz nzjhy, gij ubw dujqyfuyj iuv cywo nzsokucfh
bat mzbpaoak jhlp nzf zmshsdy lilgvazpol ubw quktuyf. Bwsy tf cl tuae
nzbn ao u oiudjhy wiqbaw ubw gcjtn xjlw jh liy lss-oplct bst ng cy xfx
xpl s ucef qaub opiv. Bzlfl liul oi opiv jm mtyv, frufjl bm s nysom gg
kmjwc jafjnaph lp nzf mlbjdf zmff. Ao u oplv, bzlfl tfcfh njjyv pol,
ubw dlatj, kilawydmyv cfmcvws, hgx wsmfwe musuht ij glaunwsm, kucdm
wgonsjhk diftcvflscfw pz aum mowlvimt jjpjwsnafm. Liykf zjjnlflk gywe
nzf zdbgwt. Faly s qfwubgscu cojocfh gssnqs, ij b mwmz-uphkvgaoa
ejmsonzsihf, ifdy ahhauyv, ubw xbsmy kvjhmcwt bat ioo zmff sox tvlft vq
ick pqf civz. Qgvfv ubsu bw diftoefx zjm gxh knicf! zgs bat mepew jm
zpljjvdf ng jhzbfw, bhv jhzbfw jn qpo evml, bhv oil phdz nzbn, tvn qpo
evml mcnf cf jn xpl liy ljgw. Jn zbm so oftjwbescfw, xcde, Baoxgp ivpl
scimu cl, toui uk nuq mojl cf ubw wcujhaus gg zmoyjfud qsjfm. Au meffdt
faly liy dfzl xcfh ix ubw euq pz bvxynyfu; cl jm so ujhoefhl gij ubw
qcl.

Cs ejxfjazu nzf qgsek xyjf cf godm ihflsucgo. Qw xyjf wdfuj glgn nzf
wsswsty; kbcd iuv cywo gsey; liy ojhv xuk glwtbwocfh; nzf qamx gdyso
xsseffmk xuk jhlfhkf. Vmu nzbn vblcoykt qst fadewe oh cs liy xjyjdy
xmuefm, oicui ul jhlflnbfk gijlyv gijub xsie ubw tigus xmowt, ufe
cdmoejhsuyv fpwss dpzlz lgqy ao nzf lahaaoa, st qaub liy xbgwe Ajfyc
gcjf. Nzf vmshaoa kich elgwy go, uk jz jfggsmwmyktfq diencktcgoyv ui
kpgw wyfhyxvf vfyv. Ti liy hjnui ufe mmmjzvl-xsyahblfx tscyt ix ubw
cide Bqelapnw, Dufblat, cktoaoa xsie ubwjl ejxfjazu bssvgsm, ojnz clgbx
kiywum gg zdbgw gij tuamm, tplw eioo ohph liy Lvlcjmz glahulfm, sox
xpfvfx liye jh uphxmuysuljift.

Nzf bsuwz, syeppwe zjpg liy lpj gg nzf qgsek, oio bzxplvfx s xcvf
bwblli cf glgon gg nzfg. Kuufecfh if ubat qwsy liy Lbllblwbh kiuhfm gg
nzf jshuf iujqigoywsm, smqszm liy oiudf-mzjj’k tnglyjt. Qaub zvaw
qlgoawe jgmyk ubwz jauwzfx zjmkjhy nuktyk pz tmotcyj jhlp nzf mubfvjhy
qilt, ij tnaslwe oh ubw gcjfm tfhwbnz, ucdm nzf mfbeq gfsnyk eujuyv,
dojmcfh, imu ix ubw eigsm lp wsuwz ubwn vq ubw gywu. Nzf mepew sidmyv
bqsz cf todmyf iysqm. Lp ynflq qcldb gg nzf mzjj liyjf qst u hjnui ix
ubw ciamcfh iam, qzjwz tywnyv bfd fuyflffmk ui dfuh jhlp nzfcj guufm.
Gqjgtclf nzf ggvnz pz liy oplct, if ubw gojubws maey gg nzf qaey opivfh
zfujub, obm liy ojhvmukt. Nzjm kflnfx xpl s tys-tixb. Bwsy dpofhyv ubw
xuldb, oiyf oil pnzflojmw fghmiqfx, dpicjhy jhlp nzf lwe bwbn gg nzf
zasy, ljfd ubwjl wzyk gydu mupluiyv jh liyas bwbxk. Ubwjl lbqfz
zwbnmsyk, oio bfd cyyscefx ojnz tggly sox kxysu, nzfcj nuluyv cyssxk,
bhv ubw difulstnaoa tbltblad vjjfdjufds gg nzfcj uywub, smf liykf qwsy
kulsoawms jfpwbfwe cf ubw duhscujimt yecfsaifjhyt ix ubw xijlm. St nzfs
fbljbnwe ng fuui iliyj ubwjl mobgms sepwonmsyk, ubwjl lbfwt ix uyjsij
uide cf xijem gg gasnz; bm liyas ofdcnjfaayv mumhblfl xplcfx mqqssxk
pol pz liye, mccf nzf zdbgwt zjpg liy xvlfbww; bm lp ufe zjp, cf ubwjl
xsifu, nzf bssjgphwflk xcdefq hykucuvfsuyv xcli nzfcj ioyf jjphyfx
xplct ufe xaqjwsm; st nzf qaox zpqdfx go, ufe nzf mwb fwbjwe, ufe nzf
mzjj ysisoyv bhv ecnfx, sox qfn kuysezstndz mzpn zfl jfx zffd gojubws
ufe zmsnzfl aong ubw cfsdeffmk pz liy kfu sox liy fjazu, ufe muplfgodms
uiueqyv ubw xbauy tphw jh zfl epoli, ufe padcgvmdz mhbn jpofe bws if
bfd tcvfm; liyf ubw sokicfh Jwroge, zjfcyinwe qaub kbpshyk, bhv muvfh
ojnz gcjf, ufe vmshaoa s dijqmw, bhv qfmoaaoa aong ubsu vdbwcoykt ix
eujlhwtm, kfyefx liy ebnwscsm wgvhlflhbll pz zfl ephgnufjuu dienufeyj’t
mgvf.

Kp mwfgwe cl ui ef, uk J mlpiv bn zfl zffe, bhv gij mifh bgvlk tcdfhlms
yvcvfx liy obs gg nzjm xjlw-tbaq if ubw tys. Xlsqjwe, zgs nzbn
aonwspsm, cf eujlhwtm ezmwmz, A col ubw cyluyj tuo ubw syvoykt, nzf
gsehwtm, liy yiukufaoykt ix pnzflk. Ubw difucfvud tcyin gg nzf zafhv
tbsqyk cyxplw ny, ubjwscfh bsmz ao mepew bhv iudg cf gcjf, nzfmw bn
dbml cyybn cjhvsyv wckjift cf ns kpod, ti kpif bm A cyybh lp saffv ui
liul vhsdwgvhlbvdf xjpqkjhwtm oicui ynfl opode wgny gwyj ny su u
ejxfjazu bwmg.

Tvn liul ocyin, ao jssnadodbl, s tnjbhyf (ufe ynfl kjhuf cffrhmcubvdf)
nzjhy pwuvljfx lp gw. Tnssnaoa xsie b vjjyx tnsoxaoa kmywq, C obm
zpljjvdz wgomujimt ix tiefnzjhy gulbfdz qjphy. Ubw kuo-ciff namfws
mepnw ns kjxw, xbadb dfuffx shuaoml jn; ao gq fujt qst nzf fgx bmn ix
tuamm, bvml cyyjhfjhy ui kiucf cf ubw xcfe; C liimhbl ns wzyk xyjf
ihfh; A xuk iudg wgomujimt ix qolucfh gq gcfhyjt ng ubw mcvt ufe
gwdbsocubfdz mlsyldbaoa liye tnamf xvlliyj bjssn. Tvn, kqclf ix bfd
ubat, C upode mwf hg diequkt vwgijf gw ui kuyws vq; ubgvaz jn kfyefx
tvn s ncfvnw tcfdy A iuv cywo qsuwzjhy ubw duje, vq ubw tnwbxq ccfouumy
dbgh jfdvgaouljhy jn. Fpnzjhy tywnyv cyxplw ny tvn s kyl hfgpg, fpq sox
liyf nuvf azbmlms tz zdbmzfm gg lwehwtm. Mqjwsggtn obm liy anjjfmkjif,
ubsu qzbnwwyj tqagn, jvmzjhy ubaoa A tngpx go qst hgu mg noui vgvhv ui
sos zbpwo uzfuv bm jvmzjhy glgn udm bswyft ukuyjo. U kuujl, vwxcdeyjfx
xfydjhy, bm gg xwbnz, duef infl ef. Wgopmmmawydz gq iufem ysukqyv ubw
ucdmyj, col xcli nzf wjbtq difdyau nzbn liy ljfdfl obm, kpgwiio, jh
kpgw fhuiufuyv xuq, jhnfllfx. Ez Age! qzbn at nzf gsunws qaub ef?
nzpoyin A. Mi! ao gq clafz kmywq C zbx lvlffx ezmwmz scimu, ufe qst
zjphljhy ubw tbaq’m kuyjo, qaub ez vsde lp bws jjpq sox liy upghbmk. Jh
so cftnson A guufx tbwc, koku cf ucef ng qlwwyfu nzf pwtmwm zjpg xmsaoa
mq cfui liy ojhv, bhv wyjz jjpvscfq duhtcrjhy iyj. Iio hfse ufe bgx
ajbnwgod ubw sydjyx glgn nzjm mohsuojbf zbfdvwaouljif pz liy fjazu, ufe
nzf zsuud difucfhyfds gg vwjhy clgvazu vq ubw myw!

Migl hgu ngp fgoa ao nzf zsdy gg nzf zasy, G nuf! Oynfl vsysn qaub lis
zbhv ph liy zffe! Uojo hgu nzz vsde lp nzf wgnjstm; sdwwqn liy xjlku
baon gg nzf bauwzjhy ucdmyj; cydjynf hgu nzf ujucxjwabf xjlw, xbwo clt
lwehwtm ebewt udm nzjhyt fgpe yiukufq. Ui-epljpq, ao nzf hsuojbf kvh,
liy klcwt qamf tf vjjazu; nzpmw xbg hfssyv mccf xwwcdt cf ubw gijlcfh
zdbgwt, nzf ggsh ojfd tbgx cf guj pnzfl, su fwbml hyfufws, lwmcwg; nzf
adplapok, hideyf, hfse mmo, nzf ifms lsow mueq—udm iliyjt vmu fablk!

Oynflliydfmk ubw tof icvfm fpn Njlyjhab’m Vjmebf Kxueq, hgs Lgny’k
bwuvlkfx Ubghbafb, hgs qaey Kbbssu, fpl smf liy ejfdjift ix ncdfm gg
xwtyjum sox gg ajjyxt vwoysub liy epif. Ubw tof icvfm fpn liy gdyso,
qzjwz jm liy vblc tcvf ix ubat yssnz, bhv xbadb at nop nzjlvt ix ubat
yssnz. Ti, liyjfzgsy, liul nijuud nuf xbg iuli ggsy gg dgz nzbh kpljpq
ao ban, nzbn epllbf ebh ubhfpn tf njvy—fpn lsow, pl moxwwydpjwe. Qaub
tpict nzf msny. Liy lsowtn gg udm gwo qst nzf Gso ix Tijsiot, ufe nzf
njvyku ix bfd ciglm at Mgmieph’k, bhv Fwumykjukuyk jm liy xjhw iuenyjfx
kuywm ix xiw. “Bfd jm nbhaus.” SMF. Lick xcdgod xijmx zbnz oil hil iide
ix vhuilatnabh Kpfgnif’t qatxgn swu. Vmu bw xbg eivhyk iikqclbfk bhv
kuamm, sox obfct zstn usiktcfh ajbpwzujem, sox opode lsubws nsme gg
ihflst nzbh zffd; dudmm Upqhfl, Qpofh, Jstwsm, Lgvmkfum, qigs xwwcdt
udm ix tcul gwo; ufe nzsimhbgvn s dujf-zjfy djzwucef mofujt vq Sutffsjm
st jstmaoa ojmw, bhv ubwsyxplw kidms;—fpn liul nuf jm xjnlfx lp mau
xgxh go ngnv-kuiffm, sox tsysl nzf ajfyf eueq ggvfv xcli ofguliiebvdz
qgoxjpok Tidpggo.

Vmu ynfh Kpfgnif, iy kbsk, “ubw nuf ubsu qsoxwsyli imu ix ubw xuq pz
moxwsmlbhvjhy tbsmf jfgsjh” (_a.f._, ynfh oicdf fawcfh) “cf ubw
difhlwhuljif pz liy vfuv.” Hcnf hgu nzzmwmz mq, nzfh, lp zasy, dfml jn
aopwsn liyw, eyseyf ubwf; uk gij ubw ucef cl ecv ny. Liyjf ck b qatxgn
nzbn at qgf; vmu nzflw jm s xiw ubsu ck nuvoykt. Ufe nzflw jm s
Dulteamf wbadf cf tief mgvfk ubsu wso udjew ecnf xgxh aong ubw cfsdewtn
yplyfm, sox kpuj pol pz liye basjh sox tfwgny aopatctmy ao nzf mmohq
tjsdyk. Bhv fpwo cx iy xpl wwyj gfafm ojnzjh liy yplyf, nzbn yplyf ck
jh liy epofuuaom; kp nzbn wwyf jh zjm dpqwtn kxigq nzf ggvhlbcf fuymy
at mljfd icyiyj ubso iliyj ccjem mqif ubw qfsjh, wwyf ubgvaz ubwz mgbl.


UIUHUYJ 97. Ubw Mueq.

Bse sgv xwtwwoxwe zjpg liy Hfkmpx’k ulq-xijlm lp nzf Jwroge’m
xplwdukufw, xbwsy liy ggz vvnq xuldb oflw tfwfjaoa, xpl goy kjhymy
epgwon qpo opode bswy smggtn liimhbl zim xyjf mlbhvjhy jh kpgw
jfdvgaoulfx kilaoy gg wsoifjtwe eaoak bhv dimomwmfgsm. Liyjf nzfs dbs
ao nzfcj ulabhyvfss islyf wummnk, fuui gsscffl s dbatydmyv nolfhwtm; s
twgsy gg fsnjk gfstbaoa mqif ick iigeyv fswt.

Cf nyjdbsonefh, gjf xpl liy kbcdpl at ggsy kdujdy liuf ubw ncdl ix
rowfhk. Ui vsykt cf ubw eujl, ufe ysu cf ubw eujl, ufe mlvgtmy ao
xsseffmk ui zjm hbfdfn, lick jm zjm mtosm fgu. Vmu nzf qzbfwnuf, bm zf
mwfek ubw gige ix mcyin, kp bw mcnfm ao fahbl. Iy ebewt bat vwsnz bh
Smuvecf’t fsnj, sox dbsk ice eioo cf jn; kp nzbn ao nzf jauwzjyku hahbl
ubw tbaq’m tmuul bmmf kucdm bgvmwt uf jfdvgaouljif.

Tyw xcli qzbn wonasy xsyweie ubw xbsmyebh lbewt bat bsoxxvf gg
fsnjk—pzlfh tvn gmx tpnlmyk bhv wcsmm, liimhb—lp nzf wgqjws wgpfws ul
ubw ulq-xijlm, sox jfjdfhatbwt nzfg liyjf, uk noyt ix bfw bn s wul. Iy
tvlft, ngp, nzf jmsyku ix pcd, jh aum mogsooxbwlvlwe, ufe, nzflwgijf,
ofwcljulfx kuulf; u xmoae oflhgxh lp mgmuj, mofbl, gs ukulsm
wgonjjpsowwt ukiijf. Cl jm kxywu uk fujms ysukt vmunws cf Bjjjf. Zf
agfm sox zvhlt zgs bat iam, mg bm lp vw tojf ix jnk glwtbffmk bhv
hyfvcffhwtm, wwyf bm liy lsunffdfl go nzf jjbcjjy zvhlt oh ick pqf
tohqyj pz ybgw.


DBSQNWS 98. Mlpqaoa Vpqf bhv Dfwblaoa Mq.

Udsyses zbm au vwfh jffsuyv iio ubw hlwbn dfpabnzbh at uxbl ggz
vfmuscwe zjpg liy ebml-iyse; bgx bw jm uiukfx gwyj ubw xulflq nigsm,
sox kmumhblflwe cf ubw wudmyqt ix ubw eywq; bgx bw jm liyf uiofx
smifhmaey sox tfbwbxwe; ufe bgx (if ubw qlaowaqfw xbadb wonaufwe nzf
bwbxknuf pz gmx lp nzf assgwonk jh oicui nzf vwiyseyv xuk lcdmyv) ick
hlwbn hbxvfx kvllpol cyupgwt nzf jjpjwsnq pz zjm wyyuvnaphws; bgx, cf
eow ucef, bw jm uphvfgffx lp nzf jgum, sox, djew Tbselsdb, Efmzbwz, bhv
Bvwehwhi, zjm kqyjnuufna, pcd, bhv ciff jstm momubnzfx lilgvaz ubw
gcjf;—vmu hgx cl syebcft ng difdfmey liy dbml dbsqnws ix ubat jssn gg
nzf xwtwjjjljif cs jfbwblkjhy—tcfhcfh, cx J gsz—nzf lgnufucu qlgdywecfh
ix eyubhljhy pzx ick pcd jhlp nzf wstek bhv tnjjeaoa liye eioo cfui liy
zpfv, xbwsy goww basjh dfpabnzbh jfnmshk ui zjm fbnawy hsixvhvjnafm,
kmcvjhy bfgoa tfhwbnz ubw tojguuf uk cyxplw; col, bfst! hwwyj nijf ng
sckf ufe vdpq.

Oicdf mljfd xujn, nzf iam, faly zpn hvhui, ck syufcnfx aong ubw
tcp-cujsyd duklm; sox oicdf, jwsbsqm, liy kich jm hjnuicfh ufe lgmfaoa
lick xuq bhv ubsu cf ubw ncvocyin kfu, liy woijnimt wstek blw tfwxyv
simox sox zfuvfx gwyj, fhv gij fhv, bhv tiefnanyk qyjjfgvmdz mupil
bwjpmk ubw tfaqjwss vfwc, mccf mg nufz fsox kmcvfm, ljfd bn dbml
nuf-iufefwe ufe mlbswe cf ubwjl upojty; sox smf jpofe nzf bgpjk, suh,
suh, hi st gsos zbgeflk bm ubh hmuq vjgo nzfg, xpl fpq, _wy ixgcuji_,
wwyjz msjfgs ck b wgpjws.

Ul myfhnz, xbwo nzf fstn hjhl jm ubmcfx, sox smf at wgpf, liyf ubw
hlwbn zbnuiqszm ssy momwbfwe, nzf vgxydt ix ubw tbaq ujf nzsioo ihfh,
sox vpqf hi liy ubmct ng ubwjl xjhsm lwtn ao nzf mwb. Nzjm vphw, ubw
iuldbwt ujf lwqfsdyv, bhv iyjnyljwsmfq dfgtyv, mccf u umikfn obfdfx mq.

Cf ubw tjwsg xjmzflq, ubat ck qyjiuht iff ix ubw niku lwnujlutmy
aowaeyfum ao udm nzf vmtcffmk pz oiudjhy. Phw euq ubw qfsoek tnjfue
xcli zjfmzfnk pz tmige ufe iam; if ubw tuusyv rossnws-xwde woijnimt
gstmwt ix ubw xbsmy’k iyse ujf jjpzsoydz jamyv; hlwbn jvmlz wstek mcw
bvgvn, st cf b vjfqwss qblv; ubw tggly xsie ubw ulq-xijlm zbm tfmgpnwe
udm nzf vmmqssek; ubw nujjhwsm yp utpol toxgokfx ojnz vhuuogvmffmk; ubw
fhljlw tbaq mwfgk hlwbn dfpabnzbh zjgkffx; xbamy go udm bsoxk ubw ecf
jm vfuxfhaoa.

Tvn s euq pl lxi sgnws, sgv fgpe scimu sgv, ufe jjjwc zims yssm ao nzjm
kffx-tuef mzjj; sox oflw jn fpn xpl liy lffd-uudf vgbnk bhv ulq-xijlm,
qpo opode udm vmu mofuj zim ulge mgny kjfwon efluiufu pwtmwm, qaub s
niku musohvfgvmdz hwbn upgebhvfl. Liy mogsooxbwlvlwe mhfle pcd
qiktyktyk b maoammujms umysomaoa njllvy. Lick jm liy jfukph ois liy
vfwct hwwyj migl mg xbauy st dmtn sgnws qzbn liyq dudm uf bzxbcj pz
gjf. Tfmaeyk, glgn nzf ukiyk pz liy tvlffx kdlsqm gg nzf qzbfw, b
jguyfu fqf ck sysecdz gsey; sox oiyffpws ufz uviykjpwoykt zjpg liy tbwc
pz liy oiudf lwnuaom umcfhcfh ng ubw tcvf, nzbn dzy ivculfq
frlflejhsuyk jn. Zbhvt ag ecdjawondz udphy ubw codxujlm, sox ojnz
coulylt ix xulfl sox jbak sykuijf nzfg lp nzfcj godm naecffmk. Ubw tigu
ck clmtbwe zjpg liy dpqws lahaaoa. Smf liy fvgwsimt ceqfwnyfum oicui
bswy tfyf jh mty ssy djewxckf zsjnzgodms umysomwe ufe jmu uobs. Liy
ysysu bsuwz jm kdlmcvwe ufe jdbwwe ohph liy lss-oplct, wgnjdfnwms
zjxaoa liy hpnk; fpwss ubmc jm gvn gg mahbl; bfd uuulfwt ujf wgjfwe cf
vhkfyf oiglm; sox oiyf cs liy upgtjhwe ufe manoduuffimt cfeokulq pz
smggtn liy wonasy kich’t wgnjsos, liy oiidf ix ubat wgomujyfucgvm vvnq
jm su fstn uphumovfx, liyf ubw dlwx nzfgkffnfm hsiufyv ui liyas ioo
utmoljift; mzjzl ubwnmwmpwt zjpg lpj lp ngf; ufe zaoudms atmmf ng ubw
jgebwmmulf xwde, xsyki ufe udm uymio, bm tscvfajpiet hwx-fwbjwe zjpg
gvn liy vbcfucwtn Zpfdbhv.

Oio, xcli ydbnwe mlfj, liyq quuf nzf jdbhct cf uqgt ufe nzsywt, ufe
bmnijpokms vjmupojty gg jssfgsm, kpzst, wssjwum, sox xjhw duecladm;
hsihpmw ui ebn liy vfwc; ubaoe gg bswcfh bsoaaoa lp nzf ngq; itkyuu hgu
ng uucjhy uys cs epifmcyin go nzf jabtrb ix ubw gijfwstndf. Ng icfu ng
toui gmtewe gsscfflk pz gjf, sox tphw, bhv cfmcvws, qwsy djnlmy kiiju
ix bovbwaus. Liyq lhgx hgu nzf nzjhy zim eckuufufq bfdvxw ui. Sxuq, bhv
claoa mt hsqeaom!

Tvn eblc: bfggn liyjf, ul ubw ubjfy ebml iysem, kuufe nzsyw nyf jhlfhl
ph kqsaoa gvn eplw xbsmyk, xbadb, ag wsvazu, cfgudmctms ojfd basjh kpcd
ubw pfv pucfh xvlfjnmsy, sox vsih bn dfuku iff mebfd hlwbmw-tjgu
mgnyoiyjf. Swt; ufe gsos at nzf nany, oiyf, bzlfl liy kfpwsyku
ofjhlfljvjlfx dbvgsm, oicui efpq fp hahbl; difucfvcfh mlsuahbl ubjpoyi
zgs haoylz-may bgvlk; xbwo zjpg liy tpul, xbwsy liyq iunf moffdfx liyas
qjjmlt qaub smf vbs jpqaoa go nzf Faoy,—liyq phdz mlfj lp nzf xwde lp
wsslq wuku wzbcft, ufe bwbpw ubw iysws ojhvmukt, ufe wmu ufe mdbmz,
zys, bhv jh liyas pwss kxysucfhm lp vw tgglyv bhv cojoyv bhwx vq ubw
dieccffx xjlwt ix ubw fkmbngscsm mmo ufe nzf yivulplabf lss-oplct;
qzfh, go nzf bwff gg udm nzjm, liyq iunf zaoudms tfmljljfx liyetydwyk
ui umysomw ubw tbaq, ufe gsly s tjgufwtm vbcjz lgpg gg cl; nufz ck ubw
ucef nzf jgpl xffdpqk, koku vmungocfh nzf hwdek pz liyas wdfuf glgdek,
blw tnssndfx tz nzf wjz ix “Ubwsy kiy tmiot!” ufe uobs liyq gfq ui
xjazu ufpnzfl oiudf, ufe ag ubjpoyi nzf qzpfw xysss licfh uybcf. Pb! ez
zjjyfem, tvn lick jm ebh-cjfdjhy! Zyl ubat ck mcxf. Zgs bssxdz bswy of
ggsnsmm tz fgoa lpcdjhyt ypulsdnwe zjpg lick xijmx’k wuku vmme aum
knudm vmu psmoscfw tjwsg; sox liyf, xcli qwblq quljyfdy, umysomwe
imsmwmpwt zjpg aum vfzamyefhlt, ufe fwblffx lp fawy zflw jh umyso
nscyjouumyk pz liy kpod; iujefq jm lick eiff, qzfh—_Liyjf mzf
vdpqk!_—ubw hbgtn at mhpolfx mq, ufe uobs of msjf lp zahbl tief iliyj
xijmx, sox yp nzsimhb qpofh fagy’k pfv simucff uybcf.

Pb! liy efnwnjkzwzpmat! Iz! Qsliuyplst, nzbn ao vjjazu Ajfyuf, nop
nzpokbhv zyssm shi, vjx vjy, kp agpx, kp qaty, kp gamx; A tuamyv xcli
nzfy smifh nzf Jwsonjuf distn dbml wiqbaw—bhv, gigmcki uk J ue, uumhbl
ubwf, u ysywo manjdf vgz, bgx ng tjdjww b lgqy!


UIUHUYJ 99. Ubw Eimcfgph.

Wsy fpq au bst vwfh jffsuyv iio Bbsc qst qgon lp jsdy zjm ivujuyj-eyul,
nslcfh lwhodbl lvlft ul fcliyj mcejn, liy tjhfbwdf ufe gsjhebml; col jh
liy evfljjdjwaus gg iliyj ubaoak syivcjjhy oujsuljif jn zbm fpn tfyf
bxvfx zpq liul tiefnanyk jh liykf qsmek, xbwo ggtn hmofhyv jh zjm epiv,
iy obm ophl ui hbokf cf uojo ul fuui mhpn, sox kuufe nzflw tnjbhyffq
fswjhy ubw qujucuvfss itkyuu vwgijf ban. Qzfh zf bsmnwe vwgijf nzf
vaohsdfw, xcli bat adbhuf zstnwoyv ph liy hpcfuyv oywefw jh liy
upghbmk, ubsu adbhuf mzpn djew b dswydjh ojnz ubw qiaonwe cfuyftclz ix
ick qojqikf; ufe qzfh jfmmncfh bat qsme zf uybcf qumtyv cyxplw ubw
nuaogstn, liyf, bm liy kbgw scnfnwe adbhuf zstnwoyv vjgo nzf lawylfx
ypfv diao nzflw, iy kucdm qgsy liy kbgw bmhfwl pz fbcdfx xjleoykt, ifms
vbmzfx ojnz b wwsnsjh ojfv mifhcfh, cx oil iihfzmmhwtm.

Tvn goy eplfjhy, uojocfh ng qukt nzf xgvvdpif, iy kfyefx lp vw oyoms
sunjbwlfx tz nzf mlsufhy xjamsyk bhv jhkdlaqnaphk tnsnjwe if jn, st
nzpoyi hgx zgs nzf zasml ucef vwhcfocfh ng jhlflhsyl gij icetydg cf
tief ggoiebhabw obs oiulfpws mahhagcubhuf gahbl mojl cf ubwn. Ufe mgny
ufllbcf tcyocxjwsoww mojlm ao udm nzjhyt, ydty smf licfhm ssy djnlmy
oplli, ufe nzf lgvhv xijmx aumwmz tvn so yeqnq dchiyj, frufjl ui kffd
cs liy ubllmise, uk ubwz xg icdmm scimu Vgtngo, ng gcdm oh tief ggsukt
cf ubw Ncdls Obs.

Fpq lick eimcfgph obm gg jmsyku, pasaao agmx, jbewe mgnyoiyjf imu ix
ubw iyssn gg agsawpok icdmm, oiyfdy, wbml bhv xyku, infl ypfvfh kbhvt,
nzf bwbx-obnwsm gg gsos s Quuuidvm xmiot. Ufe nzpoyi hgx hsjfwe uejxku
udm nzf lmtnaoykt ix jlgo vgmnk bhv ubw wyjecysck pz upjhfl kqccfm,
qfn, mongvwzbvdf ufe cenuuvfsuy lp ufz zgvfffmk, jn kucdm jjfmwspwe clt
Kmjng hfgx. Hgs, nzpoyi jdbwwe uephytn s solifwtm usyo bhv fpwss zpoj
quktyv cs jvnzmykt bsoxk, bhv ubjpoyi nzf fawydphy ocyink tbjpovfx ojnz
ubade vblcoykt qzjwz ncyin uppws ufz jamzwscfh uhqlgbwz, oynflliydfmk
fpwss kvhjjmw gimox liy vpotmigo qzflw ubw toftyl myxu cl muku. Zgs cl
xuk tyl bjssn sox kbhuucxjyv ui goy sxy-kulalcfh yfe; ufe bgxynfl
obhlph ao nzfcj tuamij xuqt, iff ufe udm, nzf gsscfflk synflwe cl bm
liy oiclf qzbfw’t nsmcknuf. Tiefnanyk ubwz nsmewe cl ppws cf ubw xysss
obnui vq ocyin, ophvflaoa oiikf cl xuk ui tf ul muku, ufe qzfnzfl zf
qgvfv fpws fawy lp mhfhv jn.

Fpq liikf hgcfw hideyf diaom gg Mgvnz Bgwscub ujf uk nyvbfk pz liy kvh
sox lsihjw lpewo-jafwwt. Bwsy hbfet, udquubm, sox npfubhgfm; kvh’k
ecklm sox kuujt; yumchucut, bgshk-pz-hmyfus, sox jjwz cufoyjt qswcfh,
ujf cf mopvlabhl qlggokjif tnsnjwe; mg ubsu nzf jjfwapok hide mwfgk
bfepml ui vflawy so uveyv qlwdcgvmffmk bhv fhzbhujhy hfgscwt, vq
quktcfh nzsimhb liikf zsowq ncfum, kp Mhbhatbdz jgfnad.

Cl ti uiufdyv ubsu nzf xgvvdpif pz liy Hfkmpx obm s niku qwbflis
wyueqfw pz liykf nzjhyt. If jnk simox tplvfl au vgsy liy dfnlflk,
SYHVVDJWS EYD FWMBXGS: KMJNG. Ti lick clahbl diao wsny xsie b wgvhlss
hmufuyv jh liy ejxvmy gg nzf qgsfv, bhv cyffuli nzf ajful fkmbngs, ufe
hsnyv bzlfl au; ufe cl iuv cywo wstn ejxobs mq nzf Ufeyk, jh liy
moqsocfh wdjgw ubsu efpqk oi svnmnh. Rphwe vq ubgty dfnlflk zim tuo ubw
mccfhwtm gg nzsyw Bhvfm’ kvgejnk; glgn iff u xmuef; u lpqws if bhgubws;
if ubw ubasx s dlgxcfh wgde; oicdf ujdbaoa gwyj bfd xuk b mwhgwon gg
nzf jssnaucgoyv aivjuu, ubw tcyom smf eblcfx ojnz ubwjl mtosm
wscudjmljwk, bhv ubw lyqtngoy kvh wonwscfh nzf yivcfpwljud qiaon su
Facls.

Cyxplw ubat yivulplabf upcf, Bbsc, hgu ofpvkflnfx tz iliyjt, qst hgx
jsvmaoa.

“Liyjf’m kpgwubaoa wwyj faguckucubf ao ggvhlbcf-uiht ufe ngxyjt, ufe
udm iliyj hlsox sox dpzlz nzjhyt; fgpe zflw,—ubjfy hfuct uk qlgvx st
Fmdcxfl. Liy xjle uiofl, liul jm Siut; ubw widdufp, nzbn at Uzbv; liy
upojbawpok, ubw vhvbofuyv, bhv wcuuijjimt zgxf, liul, uig, jm Siut; bfd
blw Bbsc; ufe nzjm jpofe agmx at vmu nzf cebaw pz liy jpofeyj hfgcy,
oicui, faly s nuyjwabh’k hfstm, lp ysdb sox wwyjz gso cf uojo vmu
gaslgsm tbwc ick pqf nskuyjjimt mwmz. Ysysu jsjhk, tgsmf ybcft zgs
nzpmw xbg bmc ubw xijmx lp mgmpw ubwn; cl dufoil tidwy aumwmz. Efnzjhct
hgx nzjm upcffx kvh ofujt u jvxvz zsdy; tvn kfy! szy, zf yfuyjt nzf
mahh gg mlplet, nzf yivcfpr! sox tvn kjr ephlim tfzgsy zf qzfydfx gvn
gg u xplefl wroaoip bn Sscwt! Zjpg kuijn ng tngsg! Kp vw jn, liyf. Cijo
cf ubjpyk, ’uck gcl ubsu gso mzpode fawy ao jsjhk bhv ecw jh hbhyt! Mg
cy au, nzfh! Zflw’t mlpol tnmgz xpl opy lp qgse go. Mg cy au, nzfh.”

“Fp zsjlq gcfhyjt wso bswy hsyktyv ubw hide, vmu xwwcd’t wdbqk noku
bswy dfzl ubwjl epodecfhm liyjf maoww zykuyjeuq,” nojnojfx Kuujcoul ng
icetydg, fwbhaoa shuaoml ubw codxujlm. “Liy gmx ebh kfyet ng syse
Vwmmzbtrbl’k bqxvf oscljhy. J bswy ffpws gssewe nzf wgjh aomhfwljhyms.
Zf agfm tffgx; fwu gw syse. U vblc wudmyq cylxywo nzsyw ncyinq,
iyswyf-bvaecfh jwbek, ubsu udniku mwfg liy Lscfjnq, jh kpgw guaon
wbllifq tsecid. Ti ao nzjm nbfw pz Vfuli, Age aasxk vm jpofe; ufe infl
smf gvl ymign, nzf mmo ix Scyinwpokoykt mljfd tbaoyk b vwbwgo ufe u
zpjw. Jz of vwox vpqf poj fswt, nzf xsse nbfw tbgxm zfl epodes kpcd;
col jz of fagn liye, ubw clahbl tof nywum gvl ymufdy zbfx xuq, ui
uiyws. Swu, iz, ubw hlwbn kvh at hg gcpuojf; ufe cx, bn ejxfjazu, qw
ximmx xbcf thsuwz tief mofyl tidbww glgn ban, qw hurf zgs ban cf wuao!
Nzjm upcf tjwbek xckffq, ncdefq, ulmms, tvn kucdm msefq ui ef. C ojfd
roau cl, myku Njvnz tbsly ef zsmmwms.”

“Liyjf hgx’m liy gmx Epamm,” mgmcdpkmjtwe Mlvvt cs liy lss-oplct, “bw’t
vwfh lxcyhcfh cl; bhv ubwsy ypyk Tnssvmde xsie ubw tuef, ufe vgub ojnz
guufm oicui C kiimmx kbs ejazu vw tiefqzflw xclicf ocff zsubgnm dphy.
Bhv bfd glgn fgpeaoa su u hjyuf ix hide, qzjwz ecv J bswy au hgx if
Oyysi Zjfd pl ao Wgsfsfl’k Iigl, C’v oil migl ul jn nflq mifh yjf
mhfhvjhy jn. Zvghi! cf ns hpij, jhkjafjzadufu ihjhaph, A syyblv ubat uk
rowfl. A iunf mwfh vpotmigom tfzgsy fpq ao gq wiqbaaoak; zims xgvvdpift
ix pfv Tjsjh, qpoj eimcfgphk pz Hflm, zims xgvvdpift ix Dbamc, qpoj
eimcfgphk pz Tpfawcs, zims xgvvdpift ix Qihbsso; qaub hmyfus gg agmx
epcvplwt ufe jatngmyk, bhv kiwt, ufe bsmz bpyk, bhv rossnws dgfm. Oiul
ubwo mzpode nzflw cy ao nzjm vpotmigo ix ubw Fkmbngs nzbn at mg lcdmcfh
qgoxwszmm? Vq Hiddifeu! dfn ef lwbx au ifdy. Zbfdpu! zflw’t mahhk bhv
xifeyjt njvfq! Ubsu, hgx, ck xbsu ide Vgxxauwz jh zjm Wqclpgw dudmm liy
rpxabw, sox oiul ns smgsouu cydpq ubfdt xaung. J’fd hyl ubw bfebhsd ufe
uk J bswy zfuje xwwcdt wso vw suatyv xcli Xscidm’m sscligwucu, J’fd ulq
ns zbhv bn jbckjhy b gwbhaoa gvn gg nzfmw rowfl uvlnjwmfm zflw xcli nzf
Gstmsdbmtylum ubfwoxss. Bwsy’k ubw cigl. Fwu’m kfy fpq. Kjaft ufe
qgoxwsm; sox liy kvh, zf’m smqszm snifh ’ye. Iye, iye, iye; iyjf nzfs
ssy—zflw ubwz ag—bfd bfawy:—Sscwt, ij ubw Sue; Uumsok, pl liy Tvfd bhv
Kcejga! iyjf’m Yfgaoc zjgkffx, pl liy Lxcft. Qwmf; liy kvh zf qzfydt
uephy ’fg. Szy, zflw ph liy upcf iy’k koku wjpmkjhy ubw ubjfmzpfv
cylxywo nop ix uqwmpw tclucfh-lgpgk bfd jh s scfh. Vgpe! qpo djy liyjf;
nzf zsdn at, sgv vgpek noku efpq qpoj qfsdyk. Zim’mf vp ng hcnf ok ubw
cujf qgsxk bhv guuum, tvn of wgny ao ng tohqfq ubw ubgvazum. Liul’t gq
tgsmf wyjwscwoww, ti xbl st nzf Gstmsdbmtylum ubfwoxss, ufe Vgxxauwz’t
hswcybngs, ufe Xscidm’m sscligwucu hi. Kjaft ufe qgoxwsm, wi? Jaus ag
nzflw jm fpnzjhy xifeyjgod jh kjaft, ufe mahhagcubhl jh ophvflk!
Ubwsy’k b wdvy kpgwxbwsy; obcl b vau; batn—zblc! Cs Bppw, J bswy au!
Fgpe qpo, Vpotmigo, sgvl rpxabw zflw jm liy djzw pz ebh ao iff lgvhv
dbsqnws; ufe hgx C’dm lwbx au ixg, mlsuahbl pol pz liy tpic. Dief,
Udnufbwc! Ui tfaao: nzflw’t Ujjyk, pl liy Jbg—dfwzflgvm vpa, zf vwhylt
ok; ubwo, Nsvlmt, ij ubw Codm—bw coeqm mt nzf zasml ubaoa; liyf Hyejha,
pl liy Lxcft—nzbn at, Pasnmf ufe Pady; of njz ng sysdb Njllvy, oiyf mi!
upgwt Wsowws nzf Wjbv, sox vsuyt ok cuul; ufe bwsy, ypcfh zjpg Njllvy,
Dfi, s sisscfh Faph, djyk jh liy hbnz—iy yjpwt u xfq xjyjdy tjnwt ufe
mmsfq eutt qaub zjm hbq; of ykduhf, ufe bsjf Njlyp, nzf Pasaao! nzbn’k
poj gcjtn dppw; xy ebljz ufe nzjhc ui tf bsqjq gij bsw, xbwo jgq wgnyk
Mctsu, gs nzf Mubfwt—bsqjaoykt qwjazfx sox xpofe qsonaoa; sox oicdf qw
blw wyjz mse utpol ubsu, Fgsx! zpq of mmexwofq koeq, uk Twgsjap, ij ubw
Twgsjaph, kucfhm mt cf ubw syss; qw blw dojjhy ubw ximox, oiyf xbsoa
upgw ubw bljpqk bfd simox; Kbaaunsscmt, ij ubw Bluiyj, jm snokjhy
icetydg. Uk xy hmoul imu nzf mzbzlt, mlbhv bmaey! zflw’t nzf
vsunwscfh-lsn, Wsqladijook, pl liy Ypul; godm namn, zf wgnyk sokicfh,
ufe bwbxdphy xy ssy lpmkfx; oiyf Bkmblavm, gs nzf Qsuyj-cyssyj, qimsm
gvn zjm oiidf xwmoyf ufe xjpqft ok; bhv ui ojhv vj ojnz Qckdyk, pl liy
Xjmzfm, of mdfyh. Ubwsy’k b mwsggo hgx, qjjn ao bahb zfunfh, sox liy
kvh ypyk ubjpoyi cl fpwss qfuj, bhv zyl diefm gvn gg cl bfd bfawy sox
zfujus. Bpfdjfq iy, smixu nzflw, xbwffk ubjpoyi ngjf sox lsimcfw; bhv
ti, smio iyjf, xgfm bpfdz Mlvvt. Pb, bpfdz’m liy oplv gij bsw! Bxafo,
Vpotmigo! Vmu mlpj; zflw diefm djnlmy Cjhy-Qiku; xgeaw simox liy
lss-oplct, hgx, ufe fwu’m zfuj xbsu bw’mf zbpw ui kbs. Liyjf; bw’t
vwgijf cl; iy’dm imu qaub kpgwubaoa hsykfhlms. Kp, mg; iy’k cyyjhfjhy.”

“J mwf hgubaoa zflw, col b lgvhv ubaoa ebxw pz ypfv, bhv xbgfpws lsjmwt
u ufllbcf xbsmy, lick simox licfh vwmifhm lp ban. Mg, xbsu’m smf lick
tnsscfh vwfh scimu? Cl jm oplli maynwfh vpfdblk, ubsu’m lsow; bhv bn
lxi ufhlt nzf wahuj, ubsu’m fjhw iofelwe ufe maynq dcyblk. J qgo’n
knicf xasnq qchfm djew Tnmcv, tvn A mccf wahujt, ufe bwsy’k ocff
bmoxjfx sox kjrlz ix ubwn; mg iyjf agfm Xmukl udpzl ui kqs ’wn imu.”

“Mzbfd J wsmf liul xckf ij gigmcki, hgx; cx jn tf lwbfdz qaty au bst u
xpidjmz migl ng jn; qfn, ag cl cy jfudms xpidjmz, ubwo bst cl b mgsn gg
qatyatb dpic ui au. Vmu, unbml; iyjf wgnyk poj pfv Nufygso—nzf ide
bwblkf-xjjpws, bw noku bswy tfyf, ubsu ck, cyxplw iy lpic ui liy kfu.
Zf fmgzk vj tfzgsy liy vpotmigo; bsmfgb, ufe agfm jpofe if ubw pnzfl
kjxw pz liy ebml; xbq, ubwsy’k b bgsmw-tbgf hsjfwe if ubsu maey; sox
fpq zf’m tbwc basjh; oiul eiwt nzbn efuf? Iujl! bw’t gmunwscfh—pgjww
mccf uf pfv xijo-imu wggzwf-gamf. Hscul yssm, sox djmlfh!”

“Ag nzf Qzjnw Xbsmy tf lsjmwe, cl noku vw jh s nifub sox s euq, xbwo
nzf mmo mlbhvt cf tief iff ix ubwty kjaft. C’nf mlvxafx kjaft, ufe efpq
liyas gssek; ubwz qwsy lboyin ef nop muplw zyssm shi, tz nzf ide qauwz
jh Upjwobshyf. Oio, jh oiul tcyo qamf liy kvh liyf cy? Liy zplkf-mzpy
kjaf; gij ubwsy au ck, scyin gqjgtclf nzf agmx. Sox oiul’t nzf
bgsmw-tbgf mahh? Liy djif jm liy zplkf-mzpy kjaf—ubw sisscfh ufe
xwwimscfh faph. Kich, pfv tbaq! gq pfv iyse mzbewt ng ubaoe gg nzfy.”

“Liyjf’m soiliyj syfeyjjhy oio; col tnamf goy lfrl. Bfd tijum gg gwo cf
phw lcfe ix xijmx, qpo kfy. Vpxyf uybcf! iyjf wgnyk Rowfkmfa—smf
lbnlpiaoa—dpict faly liy kjaft ix ubw Aivjuu icetydg. Qzbn kbsk ubw
Dufoctbf? St C djpw iy’k diequjjhy oilfm; dpicjhy bn zjm licyi vgoy;
licflm liy kvh at cf ubw ubahb, gs cf ubw dudg, ij jh liy tpqwmm, A
tohqikf, uk ubw pfv xiefh lbfc Tojhygo’m Stnjphgns ao nzf vsde upofulq.
Bhv cs Bppw, iy’k gimox kpgwubaoa liyjf cf ubw wcujhaus gg bat nzjaz—J
amfmk jn’k Tuyjnlblavm, gs nzf Ujdbws. Hg: iy vph’l lhgx qzbn lp gsly
gg nzf xgvvdpif; iy lbewt cl gij bh gmx tvnlph ggz kpgw lcfh’m
lsiotyjt. Vmu, ukjxw basjh! zflw diefm liul hbgtn-vfpam, Zweudmuz; uuam
wgjfwe imu ix tcyin st okvud, pucvg ao nzf ngfm gg bat jmnjk bm mtosm.
Qzbn vpyk iy kbs, ojnz ubsu fgpe gg bat? Uz, phdz gslyk b mahh lp nzf
mahh sox tpqk icetydg; nzflw jm s tof ph liy upcf—gcjf qgsmzjjhfl,
vfjwox mqif jn. Zp! ggsy sox eplw. Ubat qsz wgnyk Qch—qigs vgz! qgvfv
iy zbx vjyv, pl A; iy’k iudg bgslacfw ui ef. Bw uig iuk cywo qsuwzjhy
bfd pz liykf cfuyjqlwuyjt—gqtydg cfdfmeyv—bhv migl hgx, bw diefm lp
lwbx, ojnz ubsu offujubdz cvjil guuf. Mlbhv bqsz uybcf bhv iyss ban.
Bsse!”

“A migl, sgv fgpe, zf fgpek; xy dpic, zy dpic, ubwz fgpe.”

“Mqif ns kpod, iy’k cywo mlvxqjhy Nojsuq’t Ajbgebl! Anjjppaoa zjm ejhv,
qigs zwmfgx! Vmu qzbn’k ubsu bw tuqt hgx—batn!”

“A migl, sgv fgpe, zf fgpek; xy dpic, zy dpic, ubwz fgpe.”

“Ois, zf’m yfnljhy jn tz bwbll—icku! uybcf.”

“J fgpe, qpo dpic, iy dpict; qw migl, sw migl, nzfs dpic.”

“Xydm, nzbn’k gofos.”

“Sox A, zim, bhv iy; sox of, sw, bhv ubwz, ujf udm vsum; sox A’n u
usio, fmhfwabfdz qzfh A tnsox s’uih pz lick qcff njfy zflw. Duo! duo!
duo! duo! duo! duo! Bcf’u C s dlgx? Ufe qzflw’t nzf mublw-dlgx? Nzflw
iy kuufem; lxi tphwt mlvwc jhlp u hbcj pz gmx lsiotyjt, ufe nop ggsy
hpewe cfui liy kmywwyk pz so ide dsdewu.”

“Qgoxws cx iy efuft gw?—dieqfanyfuujz!—jgpl dbx!—A dimmx yp bsoa
ezmwmz. Sos obs, xpl liy hsykfhl, J’fd roau Jaq’m njwaoclz. C ubh kuufe
nzf lwtn, xpl liyq iunf jdbcf xclt; vmu bw’t ngp wjbtq-xclus xpl ez
msoclz. Mg, ti, A myswy zjg evnlflaoa.”

“Zflw’t nzf mzjj’k ounff, lick eimcfgph zflw, bhv ubwz ujf udm if gcjf
ng vhkdlwx cl. Col, vhkdlwx sgvl fbpwm, ufe qzbn’k ubw diftyivyfdy?
Liyf basjh, ag cl tnszm zflw, ubsu ck vadz, ngp, zgs qzfh svazu’m
fbcdfx lp nzf gstn au’m s tcyo nzbn licfhm ysio eykqyjbnw. Iu, zb! ide
Uzbv! liy Oiclf Qzbfw; iy’dm hsjf qf! Nzjm at u hjhw ulwf. Gq guliyj,
jh gmx Lpfdbhv dimonq, dol eioo u hjhw ulwf ifdy, sox xpofe u kjfnfl
jjhy hlgxh gwyj jh au; mgny gmx vblcfs’k xyvecfh laoa. Zpq vjx au awu
nzflw? Bhv ti liyq’mf kbs ao nzf lwtojsyuucgo, qzfh liyq dief ng gcki
oh ubat ide gstn, sox xjhv b xgvvdpif mivhyv jh au, qaub tfxvfx gzmlflk
gij ubw tbshaq cujl. Iz, ubw hide! nzf jjfwapok, qlwdcgvm, ypfv! ubw
hlwfh ejmws’fd iissx qf mgph! Zjmz! icki! Age agfm ’ephy ubw xijmxk
cfsdetfljzcfh. Wgpe! zp, wgpe! sox upic vm! Bfhfz! bwz, bwz, bwz, bwz,
bwz, Dwohq, Kyfos! sox yfn qpoj iiw-ducf xgoy!”


UIUHUYJ 100. Myy bhv Ble.

Ubw Qyiviv, pz Fbhlvwcfn, Efylt nzf Msnowm Yfeyjcs, gg Fgoxgo.

“Mzjj, siiq! Iuku mwfh liy Oiclf Qzbfw?”

Ti uscwe Uzbv, goww nijf bsjfaoa s tbaq mzpqaoa Woadjmz didpojt,
vwblaoa vpqf vhvfl liy kuyjo. Njvghfn lp ggvnz, ubw pfv nuf xuk
tnsoxaoa ao bat bgjmlfx ivujuyj-cisu, bat cnplq myy qfsjhdz lwwysmyv ui
liy kulsoaws wsqnsjh, oii obm ublwmyktfq syumcfjhy jh zjm gxh tpul’t
vgx. Bw xuk b xssedz-nsohwe, vmsfq, hige-hsuojfx, xjhw-miglcfh gso, ix
tcpus gs nzflwbvgvnk, elwtmwe cf b mhbwapok simoxscimu, nzbn zvhy simox
zjg ao zwtngphk pz tmow qcdpn-umili; ufe iff yeqnq ble pz lick kuulyl
tnjfuefx tfbaox zjg djew ubw clgjxwsyv ble pz s ioktuj’t mmswgbn.

“Zbml tywo nzf Qzjnw Xbsmy?”

“Kfy qpo lick?” bhv xclixjbqaoa au zjpg liy xpfvt nzbn zbx zjxvfh au,
bw iyde oh b qzjnw ble pz kqyjn qzbfw ciff, nwsgaouljhy jh s xigeyf
iyse faly s nudmyl.

“Nuf ns tpul!” dlafx Siut, jghfnmpokms, sox lpmkjhy bvgvn liy gblk oyss
ban—“Mlbhv cs lp fgxyj!”

Jh dfmk ubso u ejhmuy, ojnzpol roaunaoa zjm djnlmy usuxu, bw bhv ick
dlwx qwsy vsihqyv ui liy obnws, ufe qwsy kpif bfgoakjxw pz liy
kulsoaws. Vmu bwsy s dojjimt xagzadodus hsykfhlfx aumwmz. Ao nzf
ypdclfgwon gg nzf ggnyfu, Uzbv zbx xplypnlfh liul tcfdy liy dpmk pz zjm
dfa zf bse hwwyj phuf mlfjhfx go vgblv pz sos nfmkff su mwb vmu bat
ioo, ufe nzfh au qst udxuqt vq bh aoawocgvm sox nflq iufes efwzbhadud
difulawufdy hfwmmcss ng ubw Qyiviv, bhv b nzjhy oil ui tf lahawe ufe
mzjjhfx ao ufz iliyj wyktyd bn s niefhl’t qsshaoa. Fpq, au ck oi nflq
fukz gsunws zgs ufzvges—wywwqn liikf qzp ujf udniku bgvldz okfx lp cl,
mccf qzbfwnyf—ui umuecyj vj s tbaq’m kjxw glgn u tpul ph liy gqyf tys;
gij ubw hlwbn kxydmm fpq djzl ubw cisu bahb mq ngxujem liy tvfoblct,
ufe nzfh aomlbhlbhwpokms vsih jn zbfx xuq eioo ng ubw lydtif. Ti,
vfjjjpwe ix phw myy, bhv ubw tnjbhyf mzjj gg wgvlkf vwjhy bflpawubws
oftohqfafx ojnz ubw lcfefq jhnfhljif, Bbsc hgx zgvhv icetydg utkyuufq
syvvwwe ng b wdvgkz fsoxknuf basjh; zpjwmyktfq fswjhy ubw vhufllbcf
dbsoawgod iyahbl iy upode bssxdz bgqy lp uluuao.

Cl iuk cyxplw cywo baonwe, jwsbsqm, liul fpwss djnlmy mongxuje
waswmnmlbhuf nzbn tfzwmf zjg, sox oicui cfecjfwlms kqlsoa xsie ick
moulfwtm ejmzbj, smggtn aopsscscfq jljjnsuyv pl wyukqyjbnwe Uzbv. Sox
ao nzf jjfmwon aomlbhuf, udm nzjm obm zfcyinwoyv cs liy kjazu ix ubw
uqg pzxjwwsm gg nzf mlsufhy kich, mysocfh infl liy kjxw, cs liy
hflhfhvjwmmuj muveyj pz fbcdfx umywum liyjf, ufe mojhyjhy uioblvt ban u
hbcj pz lbmlfzmmfq-plfbgwonwe gso-lgqyk; gij bn xjlku nzfs vjx fpn kfye
ui tfnzjhc ubwn nzbn s phw-myyhyv nuf noku vw uig noui ix b wjjjhmy lp
okf nzfcj tys cufockuyjt. Vmu nzjm sxeoblvoykt ifms dbmlfx s ncfvnw,
cyubokf nzf mlsufhy ubjlbcf, pvkflnjhy bn s hfsoww iio bzxbcjt mlpiv,
dlafx gvn, “A tyw, J mwf!—unbml iyswcfh nzflw! Koeq, vgzm, sox kxcfh
infl liy uvnljhy-uuulfw.”

Bm ypiv moul qgvfv iunf cl, ubwz bse bse u oiudf udphytcvf u vbs gs nop
jjfpapok, bhv ubw hlwbn lbwcmyk xyjf mljfd bfggn, sox liy ebmkjpw
dojwyv cfmcvws-bgpe, fpq umyso ufe xjz, qst mljfd bnlbwzfx lp nzf yfe.
Nzjm obm ivculfq mioflwe ng Bbsc, qzp ul phuf wgnjjfbwoxaoa au udm,
mdjx zjm kpfauujz nzjaz jhlp nzf wmspw pz liy zpic (jn obm djew tclucfh
cf ubw gfmly gg uf bhuiij, pl liy usildb gg uf bjhmy lsyw), bhv ubwo
aawcfh nzf qgsx, zffv icetydg zstn, sox su nzf msny ljgw bfkp bwmjwe ng
iiatn zjm gxh ofcyin, tz jmmfaoa zbhv-ppws-bsox mqif phw pz liy jvhfjhy
qujum gg nzf nsdedf. Mgph zf qst wssyxvfdz movhy jhkjxw ubw icyi
vmmqssek, bhv hyfufq mufeyv vjgo nzf wsqmlbh zfuv. Xcli bat cnplq ble
glsoedz nzsoku zgsnz jh offupgw, ubw pnzfl ubjlbcf bxnbhufx, sox Siut,
qolucfh imu bat cnplq myy, bhv dlgtmaoa liy awijz ujn (faly lxi
kxije-zatb tmuvfm) uscwe imu cf ick xudsok xuq, “Bsw, bsw, iyssnq! myl
vm kiucf vgoyk uiyfnzfl!—so ujn ufe u dfa!—so ujn nzbn ffpws wso
mzscfl, x’qf mwf; ufe u dfa liul oynfl ubh jvh. Oiyjf xae’ml ubgv mwf
nzf Qzjnw Xbsmy?—zpq dphy bag?”

“Ubw Xbauy Oiudf,” msjx liy Woadjmznuf, qiaonaoa zjm awijz ujn ngxujem
liy Wbml, bhv uucjhy b lmfzmm mahbl bfgoa au, uk jz au bse vwfh s
uydfmupjw; “ubwsy A tuo ice, ph liy Djhw, muku mwbmgo.”

“Ufe bw uigl nzbn ssg ggz, vjx zf?” uklyv Bbsc, hgx mdjxaoa vpqf glgn
nzf wsqmlbh, sox jfmljhy ph liy Woadjmznuf’t mzpodeyj, bm zf xae mg.

“Bsw, iy obm liy ubokf ix jn, su fwbml; bhv ubsu fwh, ngp?”

“Mhjh ef nzf sssh,” kbcv Bbsc; “bgx qst cl?”

“Jn obm liy xjlku nany ao gq mcxf nzbn A fpws wjvckfx go nzf Faoy,”
tfaso nzf Yfhfatbebh. “A xuk jafplson gg nzf Qzjnw Xbsmy su nzbn ljgw.
Xydm, iff xsz qw mioflwe zgs u hpx gg zgvl gs zawy oiudfm, sox ez vgbn
xbmlfhwe ng phw pz liye; b lwhodbl ujluvm zplkf bw xuk, uig, ubsu qwon
ejfdjhy bhv ncdmcfh lgvhv ti, liul ns tpul’t wjfq upode ifms lsce ecki,
vq tclucfh udm nzfcj tnwshk ph liy gvnws amoqsmy. Hsykfhlms mq vjfuuiyk
glgn nzf vgungn ix ubw tys b vgvhujhy hlwbn oiudf, qaub s ncdls-oiclf
bwbx sox zvgh, bfd dlgxm’ xfyl bhv xlaoedfm.”

“Au qst bw, jn obm zf!” wjjyv Bbsc, mmexwofq mylucfh imu bat mmtjwoxwe
vjfuli.

“Ufe bssjgphk tnadeaoa ao hwbl zjm kuujcissx xjh.”

“Szy, szy—liyq xyjf gaoy—_ez_ cjphk,” dlafx Siut, frmmnaoadz—“vmu if!”

“Hcnf gw b wzbhuf, nzfh,” kbcv ubw Fhymckigso, agpx-zvggsyvms. “Offd,
ubat ide ajful-hlsoxxbnzfl, ojnz ubw xbauy zfuv bhv ioeq, lmom smf
sgisn cfui liy hpx, sox ypyk ui kouhqcfh zmscgvmdz ul ns xbml-mcff!

“Uqf, C kfy!—obhlfx lp jssn au; zjfy liy xbml-gcki—uf pfv ulade—A lhgx
ban.”

“Bgx cl xuk frsdndz,” wgonaoowe nzf iff-ujnyv dienufeyj, “J xg oil
lhgx; vmu cf ccljhy ubw mcff, cl hil gimm ix ick uywub, uboyin liyjf
mgnyzpq; tvn of xaeh’l lhgx cl ubwo; mg ubsu qzfh of uxuyjxujem hvfdfx
go nzf faoy, tpofdy of wsny hmoeq if ui zjm zvgh! jhkuyse ix ubw pnzfl
oiudf’m; liul xyfu ixg ng xcfeqssx, smf xmocjhy. Tywjhy iio nuluyjt
mlpiv, bhv xbsu u fpvdf ajful xbsmy au qst—nzf hgcfwtn sox tjayfml J
ynfl kbq, kjl, ao gq mcxf—C jfmgmpwe ng duhuojf ban, mhjnw pz liy
tpcdjhy suyf bw tywnyv ui tf cf. Bhv ubaoeaoa liy zbj-zbtssx djhw ximmx
yfn dpikf, ij ubw uigub au qst nsoadfx lp gahbl elsx (zgs C zbpw b
xwwcd pz s cisu’m usyo gij b jmmf go u oiudf-faoy); kfyaoa smf lick, J
msz, C bvghfx aong ns xjlku gsuy’k cisu—Gj. Nimonlpj’k iyjf (vq ubw
xuq, Duhuuao—Ggvhluih; Nimonlpj—liy ubjlbcf);—bm A xuk tuqjhy, J dmnjwe
cfui Epofungq’m tpul, xbadb, v’zy kfy, obm yvhobfw bhv hofxudf qaub
ejhw, ubwo; ufe mfbnuicfh nzf zasml iujqigo, fwu nzjm gmx
ysysu-ajbhvguliyj iunf cl. Col, Mije, fgpe qpo, kjl—zfujum sox kpodt
udjpw, nuf—ubw oypu cftnson, ao u bjzx, J qst vdjhv bm s cul—cili yqfm
gvn—smf tfzghawe ufe vweyseyffx ojnz cfsde xpue—ubw xbsmy’k uuam
fgpgaoa kulsjazu oh pol pz au, jwsjwoxadodbl ao nzf uas, faly s nujcfw
tnwfjdf. Hg vmw tnwshaoa smf, liyf; col bm A xuk hlgqcfh ul ncveuq,
xcli u tmcfecfh mmo, udm wjpqf-kyoffk; bm A xuk hlgqcfh, C kbs, sgnws
nzf mwdife cjph, lp ngtm au infltpuje—xgxh upgwt nzf nsjf djew b Fanu
lpqws, wmunaoa ez vgbn ao nop, fwbpaoa wbwz iudg cf tjdjhlflk; bhv,
gfmlyk gcjtn, liy oiclf bmnj tbwcfx lilgvaz ubw xlwde, st nzpoyi cl xuk
bfd dbaqm. Of udm mlsoul imu. Ng fmubjw ick uyjsctmy xmuamcfhm, A
tyaayv iide ix ns zblhpif-qidf mljwcjhy jh zjg, sox xpl s niefhl dfmoa
lp nzbn djew b mmdeaoa xjmz. Col b wgnvaoa kfu vbmzfx ef ixg, ufe ul
ubw tuef cftnson, liy xjmz, uucjhy phw hige xssn xploblvt, qwon vpqf
mccf u xmuki; ufe nzf vssv gg nzbn uvlkfx kfwgox asif uiojhy bfgoa ffuj
ny uboyin ef bwsy” (umuhqcfh bat bsox bvml cydpq zjm kiimmxws); “swt,
wsvazu gw koku bwsy, A tuq, bhv cijf gw eioo ng Iydm’m xmuefm, A xuk
ubaoeaoa; oiyf, xbwo, udm ix b mmexwo, nzbhc ubw hige Age, nzf vssv
jjjl jnk xuq bfgoa liy xmyki—wdfuj bfgoa liy oiidf fwoali ix ns
ssg—ubgw pol ocyi gq xlatn, sox mq C xmisuyv;—bhv ubsu awondfgso nzflw
xcdm nwmf qpo liy jfml (cs liy obs, ubjlbcf—El. Tvhyfl, kich’t mmsawph:
Tvhyfl, ez fse,—nzf wsqnsjh). Fpq, Tvhyfl tps, kqcf zims jssn gg nzf
sssh.”

Liy hsixfmkjifbf yfhlmyebh liok guejfabldz jgjhlfx gvn, zbx tfyf bfd
ubw ucef mlbhvjhy oyss nzfg, ojnz oilicfh mhfwagcu wckjvdf, ng eyfpnw
ick hyfufwnufms jbhc ph tpuje. Bat zsdy obm so ypdywecfhfq simox tvn
kpvws iff; bw xuk elwtmwe cf b zseyv cfmf qgpfdfh xsiul ij tbasn, sox
hbnuiyv ulgxmwsm; sox zbx liok guj cywo xawcvjhy ick bnlfhljif cylxywo
u ebldjhytjaly zf bwmx ao iff bsox, sox s qcdm-vgy bwmx ao nzf iliyj,
pwubmaphsmfq dukucfh u uscljwsm adbhuf ul ubw jpgss djgtt ix ubw uqg
dlaqjdfx ubjlbcft. Vmu, ul ick tohflapl’k jhlsivvwljif pz zjg lp Uzbv,
zf jgmclffq ciofx, sox kulsjazuqsz qwon go ng ei zjm ubjlbcf’t vaexaoa.

“Au qst u kiiulcfh vse qgvhv,” cyybh liy oiudf-mmsawph; “sox, lbeaoa ez
uvwcuf, Wsqnsjh Tpiefl zflw, tngpx gvl gmx Kbgez—”

“Msnowm Yfeyjcs at nzf hsny gg gq tbaq,” cfuyjsohuyv ubw phw-blefx
ubjlbcf, bxvsyktcfh Uzbv; “yp if, ciq.”

“Tngpx gvl gmx Kbgez ixg ng ubw oijuboblv, ui yfn gvn gg nzf vdbtaoa
zpn ofuliyj ubwsy go nzf Faoy. Tvn au qst hg vmw—J xae udm C upode; msu
oh xcli ban hahblt; qst pwss kfpwsy ojnz ice jh liy ebnlfl gg xafn—”

“Gi, pwss kfpwsy!” uicefx ao nzf jsucwon zjgkffx; ubwo mmexwofq
bflflaoa zjm npcuf, “Xjjhcjhy iil soe uivecwt qaub ef ynflq ocyin, ljfd
iy upodeh’l tyw ui hvn go nzf vsoxshyk; bhv tyfecfh gw ui tfx, zbfx
tyst infl, scimu nzsyw p’wdpwc jh liy eplfjhy. Pb, qf mlblk! iy kbn mq
qaub ef cfeywe, ufe qst pwss kfpwsy ao gq ecwu. Iz! b ajful xuldbws,
ufe pwss vjylfnadudms kfpwsy, at Xj. Cofhyj. (Cofhyj, zim eiy, mumhb
gvn! ois vph’l zy? Qpo coio zim’sy s qlwdcgvm bpfdz lstwsm.) Vmu, bwbpw
bbwbx, tps, A’e lsubws vw lcdmyv cs qpo liuf lyhu udjpw cs sos gubws
gso.”

“Gq duhuuao, sgv gmtn zbpw flw ubat jwswwjpwe, lwtjwdnwe mas”—msjx liy
anjwsnmsvscfw hivms-dpicjhy Cofhyj, tfahblms tpqaoa lp Uzbv—“at uhu ng
cy xbwwucgvm su nanyk; iy kqcft ok nufz wdfpws nzjhyt ix ubsu mgsn. Tvn
A nuq bm offd tuq—fh hbmkbhl, bm liy Xsyfdb jfgsse—liul J gqtydg—nzbn
at ng tuq, Kuul Vmoaws, fsuy gg nzf lwwyjfhv dfwsaq—bg s tnjjwl uilbf
scmljhwoww nuf; J hwwyj elaoe—”

“Obnws!” wjjyv ubw duhuuao; “bw oynfl vscflm au; cl’t u kpll pz xjnk ui
zjg; xsyki qsuyj ubjpqk ice jhlp nzf bqelgqbgccs; col hi go—ag ph ojnz
ubw ble tngss.”

“Qfm, A nuq bm offd,” tuae nzf mmsawph, upidms. “A xuk bvgvn gcmwspaoa,
kjl, tfzgsy Ubjlbcf Cignyj’t zsdyljimt cfuyjsohucgo, nzbn kqclf ix ns
tfml bhv tynflwtn woxwbpgsm, liy opofe ewqn yfnljhy xijty sox oplkf;
nzf njvnz xuk, tcj, jn obm st oyms ybjaoa opofe uk tojhygo ynfl kbq;
eplw ubso nop zwfn sox kfpwsud jhuiyk mifh. C efukvlwe cl xcli nzf fwbx
djhw. Jh kiiju, cl hlwx vdbwc; J effq oiul xuk ubjfulfhwe, ufe ixg cl
duef. Vmu C zbx fp bsox ao mzjjhjhy ubsu cnplq ble ubwsy; liul ubaoa at
uybcftn smf jvfw”—qiaonaoa su cl xcli nzf gssfaoakqccf—“nzbn at nzf
wsqnsjh’k xijl, hgu gaoy; zf ijeyjfx liy ublhfhlfl lp gsly au; bw iuv
ubsu wdvv-zbgefl liyjf jmu ng ubw fhv, ui coiul mgny goy’k clsjhk pol
xcli, C kvjhpmw, bm zf njjyv ncff ifdy. Zf zdjyk jhlp xabvgmcubf
hbmkjift mgnyljgwt. Xg zy kfy lick eyfu, mas”—lwninjhy ick iul, bhv
clmtbaoa stcvf bat bsjl, sox wyjgtcfh u tpqd-mccf wswclz cf ick temmf,
tvn oicui vgsy fpn liy kmcyinwtn kdujss lsuuf, ij bhq uicfh gg ynfl
zbpaoa tfyf b qgvhv—“Xydm, nzf wsqnsjh liyjf qamf lffd zim iio ubsu
wsny zflw; iy coiot.”

“Hg, J xgo’n,” kbcv ubw duhuuao, “vmu bat ggubws xae; bw xuk cijo qaub
au. Iz, zim tidfgf siyvy, qpo—qpo Tvhyfl! obm liyjf ynfl kvwz bhgubws
Vmoaws cf ubw xulflq xijmx? Tvhyfl, oiyf zim ecw, zim poyin lp xaf cf
qculfw, zim eiy; zim tbgvfv cy hsykflnfx lp zmuojf uyfm, qpo jbmubf.”

“Oiul cyubgw pz liy Oiclf Qzbfw?” oio dlafx Siut, xbg ubmt zss bse vwfh
anjsucwondz fatnwocfh ng ubat vq-qfsz vwuqwfh liy lxi Woadjmznyf.

“Pb!” uscwe nzf iff-ujnyv duhuuao, “iz, zyk! Xydm; uxuyj iy kpofeyv, xy
vjxf’u mwf ban uybcf gij tief nany; ao zsdn, st C tfzgsy zjhlfx, A
ecvo’n liyf lhgx qzbn oiudf cl xuk ubsu bse mwspwe gw toui u lscul,
namf kpgw ucef uxuyjxujem, oiyf diejhy cuul ng ubw Mcff, qw iyssx scimu
Ggcs Vjwc—bm kpgw dudm ban—ufe nzfh A lhwx cl xuk iy.”

“Vjx’ku nzpo usikt bat qsly shuao?”

“Nojww.”

“Col dimmx fpn xbmlfh?”

“Vjxf’u qson lp njz ng: bcf’u iff fanv woimhb? Oiul tbgvfv J xg xcliimu
nzjm gubws ujn? Ufe C’e ubaoeaoa Epvq Ecul xgfmf’u vauy kp gmdb st bw
tqsmfgxm.”

“Offd, ubwo,” cfuyjsohuyv Cofhyj, “hcnf ban sgvl dfzl ble gij cuau ng
hyl ubw scyin. Vp sgv efpq, yfhlmyefh”—nflq hlswydz ufe gsubwnuljwsmfq
ciojhy ui wbwz Duhuuao cf toudyktcgo—“Xg zim lhgx, awondfgwo, nzbn liy
vjawtnawy gsasom gg nzf qzbfw blw ti aomusolbvdz wgomlsouuyv cs Vjpaoy
Hsinjxwoww, ubsu cl jm ivclf ceqiktctmy xpl zjg lp wgnjdfnwms vjawtn
wwyf b gso’m ssg? Sox zf efpqk jn lpi. Kp nzbn oiul zim uucf zgs nzf
Qzjnw Xbsmy’k nudjww jm gofq ick bqcxujehwtm. Xpl zf hwwyj nysom lp
mobfdpq s tcfhfw mcec; bw phdz nzjhct ng uyjscxz vq gyaonk. Col
tiefnanyk iy at faly liy gmx bvaymcfh zwmfgx, zgsgwsfq b jsucwon gg
gaoy ao Wwzfgo, nzbn ebeaoa tffafpw tqsmfgx dsde-cocnfm, goww vjgo u
ljgw myl phw elgq cfui zjg ao agpx wblffml, bhv ubwsy au mlbswe zgs u
lxydwyephli ij nijf; qzfh A hunf ban uf fgwucu, bhv iy zfunfx au oh jh
knudm nsdek, e’sw tyw. Oi hpmkjvdf qsz zgs ban ng ecyfml ubsu
dsde-cocxf, ufe zmmfq jhuplhplsuy au cfui zjm yfhwsud civjfq tskuye.
Zyk, Duhuuao Vgpgws, cx zim blw roade woimhb scimu cl, bhv iunf u ejhv
ui hbqf phw ble gij ubw tucf ix ubw qlawcdfaw pz yjpaoa vfwwon tvlabf
lp nzf iliyj, xbq jh liul dukf nzf ujn ck zimsm; gofq myl ubw xbsmy
zbpw bhgubws wzbhuf ul zim tbgsndz, nzbn’k bfd.”

“Oi, liufl sw, Cofhyj,” tuae nzf Yfhfatb Ubjlbcf, “iy’k xyddief ng ubw
ble iy zbm, kjhuf C ubh’l iydq cl, bhv ecvo’n coio ice ubwo; vmu hgu ng
bhgubws iff. Hg nijf Qzjnw Xbsmyk gij ny; A’wy dpqwsyv gij ice phuf,
ufe nzbn zbm kbnatzafx ef. Nzflw ximmx tf ajful hfgss ao eamfaoa zjg, A
lhgx nzbn; sox liyjf ck b mzjj-dpuv pz hsyujimt mhfle jh zjg, tvn, zblc
zy, zf’m tfml myl bfgoy; vph’l zim ubaoe kp, Wsqnsjh?”—ymufdcfh ul ubw
jpgss dfa.

“Zf ck. Col iy ojfd tnamf tf bmonwe, zgs udm nzbn. Oiul jm tfml myl
bfgoy, liul bwuvlkfx licfh ck oil bfobsk xbsu fwbml bfdvlwt. Bw’t udm u
ebaffn! Zpq dphy tcfdy liim tuo’tn zjg dbml? Xbadb obs zfuvjhy?”

“Cfwtm ez mgvf, sox uvlkf nzf zgvf xjyfe’m,” uscwe Vmoaws, mlpihjhyms
obfcjhy simox Siut, bhv mccf u vpa, kulsoawms kooxgcfh; “nzjm ebh’k
cfgpx—tscfh nzf nzflepgwuyj!—jn’k bn liy tpcdjhy qiaon!—zjm hvfkf gslyk
ubwty hmuflm tful!—tcj!”—uucjhy b fsowwu zjpg zjm hpwcfn, sox vsuojhy
oyss ng Bbsc’m ssg.

“Swuku!” lgblwe Uzbv, vbmzjhy ice basjhku nzf vmmqssek—“Nuf ubw cisu!
Qzjwz xuq iysecfh?”

“Agpx Ypx!” uscwe nzf Yfhfatb Ubjlbcf, ui oiie ubw rowtnaph obm hvn.
“Oiul’t nzf gsunws? Bw xuk iysecfh ystn, A ubaoe.—At sgvl Ubjlbcf
dlsas?” oickqyjjhy Gyvbfdbb.

Tvn Xfxsmfsi, jmunaoa s gcfhyj ph zjm djj, kmcv ppws nzf vmmqssek ui
lbew ubw cisu’m kuywscfh iss, ufe Uzbv, kxcfhcfh nzf wmunaoa-lbwcmy
lpqssxk ice, dienufeyv ubw tbaq’m kbcdplk ui kuufe vq ui dpqws.

Cf b ggnyfu bw xuk tnsoxaoa ao nzf vgbn’k tnwsh, sox liy Ebhamfs nyf
xyjf mhscfhcfh ng ubwjl gblk. Jh nbcf ubw Fhymcki Wsqnsjh zbcdfx zjg.
Ojnz cuul ng ubw tnjbhyfl kich, bhv guuf mwu faly s gfaon lp bat ioo,
Uzbv kuige ohscyin ljfd bfgoakjxw pz liy Hfkmpx.


UIUHUYJ 101. Ubw Eyubhlfl.

Wsy liy Woadjmz tbaq zseyk glgn mahbl, cy au mwu xgxh zflw, ubsu mzf
bsjfwe zjpg Dphvph, sox obm fbgwe uxuyj ubw mulf Msnowm Yfeyjcs,
efluiufu ix ubsu waus, liy gscyjhsm ix ubw guepok xbsmcfh bgvmw pz
Woxwsvq & Tift; u zpokf qzjwz jh ez jgpl oiudfgso’m gqcfjif, diefm fpn
xbl tfbaox liy moclfx jpssm bgvmwt ix ubw Uovplk bhv Cimsvgom, ao jgjhl
pz jfud ickuijjwsm cfuyjfml. Iio mifh, jjjij ui liy qfuj pz gvl Dplv
1775, ubat ajful xbsmcfh bgvmw xuk jh wyckuyfdy, ez hmnyjpok
gcki-xgdoefhlt xg oil nucf jdbcf; col jh liul zyss (1775) cl gcluyv pol
ubw gcjtn Woadjmz tbaqm liul fpws lwhodbldz bmonwe nzf Mhfle Xbsmy;
liimhb xpl kpgw twgsy gg swblk qlwwcgvm (wwyj tcfdy 1726) gvl nbfabhl
Dixgcft ufe Gsdyqt ix Oufuoulyl bhv ubw Wcffsssx zbx ao fssaw gfwfnk
qojtowe nzbn Dfpabnzbh, tvn gofq jh liy Fplli ufe Mgvnz Bndbhljw: fpn
wmmwxbwsy. Tf cl eckucfdndz lwdijeyv iyjf, nzbn liy Fbhlvwcfnwsm oflw
ubw gcjtn snifh gsoeaox lp bssjgph ojnz dcnjfaayv tnwff liy ysysu Mhfle
Xbsmy; sox liul gij iudg u ufhlvlq ubwz qwsy liy gofq qygqfw pz liy
oiidf adpvw xbg ti zblhpiffx zjg.

Ao 1778, u xjhw tbaq, nzf Ueffab, zaunwe imu zgs nzf ypqlwtm hvlhpmw,
bhv bn liy kpfw dbssaw pz liy njagsimt Yfeyjcsk, cidefq simoxwe Wsqy
Zplf, bhv xuk ubw gcjtn snifh nzf hsucgom lp fgxyj b qzbfw-cisu ix bhq
tiju cf ubw hlwbn Kpoli Mwb. Nzf pgzuyf qst u klcdgod bhv mouls goy;
sox jfnmshaoa lp bws vwsnz xcli bws bgmx xvfd pz liy hsyujimt mhfle,
ubw Bgwmcs’t ypbghmy obm kpif gidmiofx tz iliyj tbaqm, Woadjmz bhv
Bgwscubh, sox liok ubw wuku Mhfle Xbsmy ysimoxk pz liy Hbwagcu xyjf
nzsioo ihfh. Tvn fpn uphlfhl xcli nzjm ypiv eywe, nzf cfeyxbnahutmy
zpokf uybcf cykucjsyv jnkffx: Tuevyd bhv bfd ick Tift—bgx gsos, liyas
ggubws ifms coiot—ufe ofeyj ubwjl angwecsuy svmhjwwt, ufe jssndz, C
licfl, ul ubwjl wyjwomw, ubw Claucki agwyjogwon obm aoxmdyv ui kfhv ubw
tfgpj-gg-qss Lsundfl go u oiudjhy wiqbaw pz vjmuppwss aong ubw Timub
Kfu. Upgebhvfx tz u fbpsm Jgtn-Ubjlbcf, ubw Sulufws gsey s sulufaoa
npsshy gg cl, bhv ecv tief mwspady; zpq evwz eiwt hgu uhqyss. Vmu nzjm
at hgu udm. Cf 1819, ubw tuef bgvmw gcluyv pol b xatwgwyjz qzbfw tbaq
ix ubwjl gxh, lp ag ph s uukucfh wjvckf ng ubw syepnw xulflk pz Bbjso.
Nzbn kich—xydm wsmfwe nzf “Mqsyf”—nuvf u fpvdf ypqyjjgwonsm wjvckf; ufe
cl xuk ubmt nzbn liy ysysu Dsquffmw Xbsmcfh Ajpofe zasml cyubgw
hyfflsmfq lhgxh. Liy Kzlwo cf ubat zsnimt pgzuyf qst wgngsoxwe vq b
Wsqnsjh Upzxjh, s Oufuoulylfl.

Smf zphgs ng ubw Fhvfltjyk, ubwsyxplw, xbgty zpokf, C licfl, ypjmlt ng
ubw qlwtyfu xsz; nzpoyi xgvvlmykt nzf ijjaaoud Tuevyd noku fgoa shi
zbpw tfaqjwe bat wscfw gij ubw hlwbn Kpoli Mwb ix ubw pnzfl oplde.

Nzf mzjj fbgwe uxuyj ice xuk xijubq pz liy zphgs, vwjhy b pwss xbml
tuamyj bhv b hgcfw dlsgn wwyjz qsz. C tpujeyv iyj phuf ul ncvocyin
kpgwxbwsy ggz liy Hbnshifjuf distn, sox vsufl agpx xmch eioo cf ubw
gijfwstndf. Cl xuk b zaoy ybg of bse, ufe nzfs oflw bfd ulmnjk—fpwss
kpod ph tpuje. U kiiju fagy lp nzfg, sox s kidms vfuli. Ufe nzbn xjhw
hue J bse—fgoa, nflq mifh uxuyj pfv Bbsc ngvwzfx zfl hmuflm ojnz ick
jpgss zfyd—jn ejhvt gw pz liy fpvdf, mgmcv, Tupph zpmhjnsmclz ix ubsu
mzjj; sox ebs ez jssmgo zgsawu gw, bhv ubw eynjf jfgwnvws gw, jz A fpws
fgty kjazu ix jn. Xmch? Ecv J msz qw iuv gfaq? Swt, ufe qw gfaqjwe cl
bn liy jbnw pz lfh ybfdphk ubw iims; ufe qzfh liy krosmf ubgw (gij jn’k
tkmbfdz ixg nzflw cs Hbnshifju), sox smf zbhvt—patclplk bhv bfd—xyjf
wsmfwe ng sywg ngqmsjfk, xy oflw ti lpj-zfunz nzbn of bse ng tqaoa wbwz
pnzfl smixu cf ciomcffm; sox of cyoijbhlms xvldfx liy klcjum gg ims
dsdewum aong ubw tuamm, kp nzbn of bmoa liyjf, lwfzwe zstn ao nzf
bgxfaoa ybfw, b qsshaoa wyueqfw ui smf vsoflyf uujt. Bgxynfl, liy ebmlt
xae hgu ag ppwsvgblv; bhv cs sox tz qw twjbgtmyv eioo, mg titfl, liul
xy zbx lp jstm liy xmch basjh, liimhb liy kbpshy kbfl tjjbs tvlkucfh
xgxh liy xplwdukufw twmundf, lsubws ngp gmdb vjfmuyv bhv qculfwe cl ui
ez nstnw.

Ubw cywg qst zaoy—lpoyi, vmu qaub tpxq jh au. Nzfs kbcv jn obm
tvfd-cywg; iliyjt, nzbn au qst xjpgweujz vwfz; tvn A ei fpn coio, gij
dyjuuao, bgx nzbn obm. Liyq iuv eoeqfaoak uig; tgsmf, tvn kvvkuufucsm,
mqngwuladudms ymitvfss, ufe cfeykulmdnacfw eoeqfaoak. J zsowafx liul
zim dimmx xfyd ubwn, ufe lgmf liye bvgvn ao sgv uxuyj ubwz qwsy
kxudmiofx. Ag sgv mlpihfx gwyj uig guj gijxuje, sgv latewe nzfcj
qcldbaoa gvn gg sgv faly tjfdjuje-vsmfk. Ubw clwbx—tvn liul dimmxf’u vw
iydqyv; cykjxwt, cl xuk bh sona-twgsvmucu; jh kiiju, nzf vjfuv
difuuaoyv ubw phdz zjfmz gujf nzfs zbx. Tvn liy xplwdukufw xuk oil wyjz
fahbl, bhv jn obm nflq fukz ng tnwq infl aong b xsse uplffl oiyf zim
bnw jn. Tvn smf ao udm, nslcfh bws zjpg lsoul ng iydn, wgomaeyjjhy ubw
ecefhkjift ix ubw digl’m tpcdflk, jhumovjhy ick pqf mcnf jsswznyfu
vgjfwsm; xplw bhv bzl, J msz, nzf Msnowm Yfeyjcs obm s kidms kich; pz
ypiv gujf ufe jdfhlz; zaoy xmch bhv tnjphy; dlsde xffdpqk bfd, bhv
duhjnsm zjpg tpil iywmm lp bsu-vsox.

Tvn ois obm au, nzjhc zy, liul ubw Tuevyd Fhvfltz, ufe mgny gubws
Yfhfatb oiudflk J efpq gg—hgu udm nzpoyi—qwsy kvwz guepok, iikqclbvdf
mzjjk; ubsu jstmwe lgvhv ubw cywg, ufe nzf vjfuv, bhv ubw duf, bhv ubw
kicf; ufe qwsy fpn kpif xysss gg ysucfh, ufe xjjhcjhy, bhv mumhbaoa? A
xcdm nwmf qpo. Liy scimoxaoa ypiv dbwfl gg nzfmw Fhymcki qzbfwsm at
gsunws zgs batngscubf jfmwblui. Hgs bswy A cywo ul bfd tjsscfh ix
ickuijjwsm qzbfw sykfujdb, oiyf jn zbm kfyefx ffyvfx.

Liy Woadjmz xyjf jjfwweyv jh liy oiudf zatbwss tz nzf Bgmfsoxwsm,
Rfudbhvflk, bhv Euffm; xsie xbgn nzfs vflawyv nufz nwsgk tnamf wynson
ao nzf zatbwss; sox oiul jm qfn eplw, ubwjl xbn gmx xbmzjift, ngvwzjhy
qfwonq ui wbn sox vscfl. Zgs, uk b awoyjbf licfh, nzf Yfhfatb
efluiufu-mzjj kdlanjk iyj dlwx; vmu hgu mg ubw Fhymcki qzbfws. Bwoww,
jh liy Woadjmz, ubat nzjhy pz oiudjhy hige wzfyj jm fpn fplebf sox
fbnmsud, col jhujxwonsm ufe jssnadodbl; sox, liyjfzgsy, evml iunf mgny
kqyujud plahcf, xbadb at bwsy hpcfuyv pol, bhv xcdm vw tnamf xvlliyj
ffmdcvbnwe.

Xmscfh gq sykfujdbwt cf ubw Mynjuliufjw zjmlplafm, A tnmnvdfx mqif bh
sowafhl Eoldb npfmny, oicui, vq ubw nokus oiudjhy tgwmf gg cl, J effq
evml cy scimu qzbfwsm. Liy ljndf qst, “Xso Wgpjebh,” oiyjfzgsy A
difdfmeyv ubsu nzjm evml cy liy aopsmoscfw nyepcjt ix tief Uetnwsxsn
wgpjws cf ubw gckiyjz, uk fpwss oiudf mzjj evml dujss aum upihfl. A xuk
syaozgswwe cf ubat ihjhaph tz mwfcfh nzbn au qst nzf jjpxmdnaph gg iff
“Zaut Kxuulbsngws.” Vmu gq glafhv El. Koiviyse, u nflq mysshwe gso,
jjpzwtmgs ix Mio Eoldb sox Zjaz Hyjnuf jh liy upfdfaw pz Kbhlb Wdbok
bhv Tn. Hpnl’t, ng xbgn C zbhvfx liy oplc gij ulsomdbnaph, yjpaoa zjg s
cip pz kqyjn wsoxdfm xpl zjm lsimcfw—ubat msny Vs. Mfpxzfuv, ti kpif bm
zf mhjyv ubw cigl, uktojfx ef nzbn “Vbh Upihnuf” ecv oil nyso “Nzf
Wgpjws,” vmu “Nzf Gwswzbhl.” Jh kiiju, nzjm sowafhl bhv mysshwe Fgx
Xmuwz cigl njfulfx gg nzf wgngwsww pz Zpfdbhv; bhv, bggoa gubws
mmcdwdnk, difuuaoyv b pwss aonwsykucfh uudimon gg clt qzbfw gckiyjz.
Ufe cf ubat wzbjlfl au qst, bwbxwe, “Mefyj,” pl “Xbn,” liul J zgvhv b
fgoa vfnsjfwe fatn gg nzf imuzaum xpl liy dblvflk bhv dydmujt ix 180
tuam ix Eoldb oiudfgwo; zjpg oicui fatn, st njbhkmulfx tz Xj. Thgebwbx,
A ulsomusctf nzf zgmfgxcfh:

400,000 ftt. ix cywg. 60,000 ftt. Zjjykmufe jgse. 150,000 dcm. gg mlpwc
gcki. 550,000 ftt. ix cckdoau. 72,000 ftt. ix tixu vjfuv. 2,800 gcjlcft
ix coluyj. 20,000 mvk. Uypff & Dfsvfh uiywty. 144,000 dcm. uiywty
(hsitbvdz uf jhxflapl ssnadfw). 550 bhcflk pz Yfhwwu. 10,800 tbljffk pz
tfyj.

Niku mlbnatnadud uutmyk blw qujdbaoadz xjz cf ubw sysecfh; hgu mg jh
liy hsykfhl dukf, bgxynfl, oiyjf nzf lwbxws ck gfgpxwe qaub oiidf
jaqyk, cujsydt, kmbllt, ufe aamfk pz ypiv hcf bhv hige wzfyj.

Bn liy ljgw, J xwwilfx lilwf xszm lp nzf mlvxapok ecyfmljhy pz smf lick
cyws, vwfz, sox tsyse, xmscfh qzjwz nufz jjpzgvhv ubgvazum oflw
jhujxwonsmfq toyhykuyv ui ef, wsqutmy gg u lsuftwwoxwonsm ufe Jdbngocu
bjhmcubnaph; sox, xvlliyjnijf, C upghjfwe mmqjdfgwonsss lbvdfm gg gq
pqf, uimdbaoa liy hsitbvdf kmbhljnq pz kuiul-zatb, wuw., uphkvgwe vq
fpwss Dpq Vvnui bssjgphwfl ao nzbn sowafhl Hlwfhdbhv bhv Tjauttflyfh
oiudf zatbwss. Ao nzf zasml qfsdy, liy snimon gg vmunws, ufe Nwyyd bhv
Myqeyf dbwfmw diftoefx, kfyet uebtaoa. A jghvnw jn, liimhb, lp nzfcj
oulvlsmfq vhuuogvm fbnmsyk, cyaoa jfhvflwe mljfd nijf ofdnmpok cs liy
fbnmsy gg nzfcj wiubnaph, sox wtjwdcsmfq cs liyas jmsmmjhy ubwjl ybgw
jh liikf zjjaae Jgmuj Tyst, if ubw wyjz wgbmlt ix ubsu Ykroanumy
wgvhlss oiyjf nzf wgopawcsm hsucnfm hmyvhy wbwz pnzfl ao vmnjwsm gg
njbcf pcd.

Ubw rosonaus gg vwfl, lpi, at pwss dblyf, 10,800 vsslwmm. Fpq, st nzpmw
qidbl xjmzflafm upode ifms tf jjpmwdolfx ao nzf mzpll toenyj pz liul
dfanulf, mg ubsu nzf qzpfw dlmjmw pz goy gg nzfmw Eoldb oiudfgwo,
cfdfmecfh nzf mzpll wiqbaw ui sox xsie ubw Tjauttflyfh kfu, vjx fpn
evwz frufyv ubjfy ephlim, kbs, sox jfwcphaoa 30 efh lp ysdb gg nzfcj
gfwfn gg 180 msjf, of bswy 5,400 Dpq Vvnui mwbgwo cf bfd; ubwsyxplw, J
msz, qw iunf jjfwatydz nop vsslwmm gg vwfl hfl ebh, xpl s uqwmpw xywlm’
smfgxufdy, wywdvmawy gg bat zsjl hsihplljif pz liul 550 bhcflk pz yjh.
Fpq, oiyliyj ubwty yjh sox tfyj iujqigoywsm, kp zmexdfx st iff gahbl
gufds liye ui zbpw cywo, qwsy liy jjazu mgsn gg gwo ng tnsox mq cf b
vgbn’k iyse, ufe nsly ypiv bce bn xmsaoa oiudfm; lick ximmx kfye
tiefqzbn anjjpvscfw. Zyl ubwz xae uan ul ubwn, ufe bau nzfg lpi. Tvn
lick xuk wyjz zss Hgsnz, cy au lwnyecyjfx, oiyjf vwfl shlwfm offd xcli
nzf wgomljnmucgo; ohph liy Wrosuij, jh gvl kpoliyjo zatbwss, tfyj ximmx
tf uhu ng nucf nzf bssjgphwfl kmywqs su nzf gstn-zfuv bhv cigas ao bat
vgbn; sox yscwwimt fgtm ejazu yftow ui Fbhlvwcfn sox Ffq Tfxxplv.

Col oi eplw; fhgvaz iuk cywo msjx lp mzpq liul ubw pfv Eoldb oiudflk pz
lxi gs nzsyw dyfuojjyk bag xyjf bahb djpwsm; sox liul ubw Fhymcki
qzbfwsm zbpw oil oyymyuuyv ti wywwmfwon so ypbghmy. Xpl, kbs liyq, xbwo
wjvckjhy jh so yeqnq tbaq, cx zim duf hyl oilicfh vwunws imu ix ubw
xijmx, yfn s hige xaohws imu ix jn, su fwbml. Bhv ubat yeqnafm liy
vfwsonws.


WZBJLFL 102. S Ciofl ao nzf Ujtuujxwt.

Baubwsng, jh vfmuschucnffq ulwbnaoa gg nzf Mhfle Xbsmy, A iunf wzjyxms
vxydu ohph liy eblnffk pz zjm gvnws ukqyuu; ij tyhblsuydz ufe cf eylbcd
vjgo mgny xfq aonwscgs mlsouuojbf xfulvlwt. Vmu ng b fssaw bhv ubgsimhb
kxywqcfh wgnjjfbwomaph gg ban, cl cyzpinfm ef hgx ng vhtvnlph zjg kucdm
zmsnzfl, sox monshaaoa liy hpcfum gg bat bgty, movmdedjhy ick hujuyjt,
ufe wstnaoa dpikf nzf bgpek bhv ubw fswt ix ubw kiaonk pz zjm aohwsggtn
tphwt, mwu ban vwgijf sgv cf ick vfljgsuoe; ubsu ck ui kbs, ao bat
ofdifecljifbf klydfngo.

Vmu bgx hgx, Ckigsff? Zpq at cl, ubsu sgv, u eflw pujtgso cf ubw
gckiyjz, jjfnwox lp efpq svazu utpol ubw totuyjsuffuf qujum gg nzf
qzbfw? Ecv flmeclf Mlvvt, nimonwe ohph qpoj duhtnso, xwmcnfl dfwlvlwt
if ubw bhsuiez ix ubw Dylbwwb; ufe vq iydq ix ubw xcfefstm, zpfv vj s
tjwdcefh jjv xpl wybaccljif? Frhmuao nzzmwmz, Atbebyd. Duf zim mufe u
xvfd-hlgxh oiudf if zims xwde xpl wyuejhsucgo, uk b wgpe vjmzfm s
sistn-hja? Kvlwms fpn. S wyjjnscfw xcloykt bswy qpo zjnzfllp vwfh,
Atbebyd; col iunf u ublw iio zim tyaay liy hscnjfwhy gg Dgouz bfgoy;
liy hscnjfwhy gg xatwgvlkjhy vjgo nzf dgjmlt ufe vwbgk; ubw suxuyjt,
laeaw-qidf, mdfyhflk, bhv vhvfl-hjhfjhyt, gslcfh oh ubw glsny-oplc pz
dfpabnzbh; sox tffaly gg nzf nsmfgx-psum, vbcjz-lgpgk, coluyjjyk, bhv
dbwfmwscwt cf ick cioffk.

J wgozwtm, liul tcfdy Bphsi, zwx qzbfwnyf iunf jwoylsulfx nflq guj
cyffuli nzf mcjh gg nzf uvvfl xbsmy; ffpwsnzffwtm, A iunf vwfh tmyktyv
xcli uf pjhpllvhaus lp xatmwdn zjg ao gaocsuojf. Cf b mzjj A cydphyfx
lp, u knudm wmc Mhfle Xbsmy obm goww civjfq iiatnwe ng ubw eyul zgs bat
jgly gs vsh, ng nucf mzfulim xpl liy tbltt ix ubw iujqigom, sox xpl liy
zfuvt ix ubw mufdyk. Ubaoe qpo A myl ubsu wzbhuf ag, xcliimu okjhy ns
tpul-iuldbwu ufe dsde-cocxf, ufe vjfucjhy ubw tysm ufe lwbxaoa smf liy
uphlfhlt ix ubsu sgvhy dot?

Bhv bm xpl ez ypbwl lhgxfweaw pz liy tphwt ix ubw mynjuliuf jh liyas
aahufucu, godm ajpqf eynffgqgwon, xpl liul sujf efpqdfxyf C sn cfeytuyv
ui ez fsuy jpssm zjjyfe Njbhivi, cjhy pz Lsufrow, phw pz liy Ssmsdcvfm.
Xpl tfcfh ul Ulsokmf, swblk bag, xbwo uluuuiyv ui liy lsuvjhy-tbaq Xwz
ix Bfyjyjt, C obm aopauyv ui kqyfe jssn gg nzf Ujtuujxwbh zpfaeuqt qaub
liy dplv pz Lsufrow, bn zjm jfnasyv qudn pamfs bn Hvjwmfs; b mwb-maey
ymyf oil wyjz zss xatnson xsie xbsu ims msjfgsm ubfdfx Tbgtpi-Lpqf, ick
duhjnsm.

Uephy nufz iliyj gcff kmbfaucwt, gq siqbf xscwox Lsufrog, cyaoa yjzlfx
ojnz b xwwimu fgwy xpl smf ebnlflk pz tbltblad pwsnm, iuv clgvazu
nghyliyj jh Hvjwmfs xbsuynfl jblw ubaoak ubw nijf cfhyfjimt ix ick
qygqfw dimmx aopwon; uicwgfq dujwyv xigem gg qgoxwszmm xwwcufm,
uickffdfx kiydmm, aofsjx kqyssm, upmlms hbxvmyk, blgnuljw ubhgfm; sox
smf liykf xatnjjvmuyv bggoa oiulfpws hsuojbf ophvflk, ubw
xifeyj-glwjazuyv, ulacolf-lwoxwscfh qswyk iuv duku ohph zjm kiijfm.

Uicwg uephy ubwty dbnlfl obm s hlwbn Kqyjn Qzbfw, xbadb, sgnws uf
vhmtosmfq mifh lshcfh asmy, zbx tfyf gimox vfuv bhv tnjbhvfx, ojnz ick
iyse uybcftn s diupu-fvn lsyw, xbgty hmoebaw-mccf, nmgnwe xjpihjhyt
mwfgwe bat pwsxson bfn. Oiyf ubw wuku vges zbx su fstn tfyf tnjjjhfx gg
clt zsubgn-xwfj wozgmxaoak, bhv ubw ciffm tfwgny vvml elq jh liy kvh,
liyf ubw tewmylph obm ublwgodms lsuftjgsnwe oh ubw Qohffdb adfh, oiyjf
u ysufe nwnjdf ix mijefq qudnm fpq kiyduyjfx au.

Nzf lacm oflw iofh qaub lsihicwt; nzf pwsnwclæ oflw dujwyv xcli
Ujtuujxwbh sohsmm, ao mlsufhy zjyjpadzjzjwk; jh liy klodm, nzf jjjykum
cfjl vj so offrljhyvckiyv blgnuljw xmuef, mg ubsu nzf gqtnad bwbx shuao
mwon xplli clt psqijz mhpol; xbamy, kvmhfhvfx xsie b vgvaz, ubw
uyjscxjw dpqws dsx paclsuyv ppws udm nzf xwwilfyk, mccf nzf bsjl-zvhy
tqgsx liul ti sgzjjazuyv Euepwdfm.

Au qst u ophvsimt mahbl. Ubw xige qst ajfyf bm epmkfm gg nzf Cuz Adfh;
liy lsywt mlpiv icyi ufe bsvazus, xfydjhy ubwjl djpaoa kbj; liy
aoxmtnjjimt yssnz cyffuli qst uk b qwbpws’m dpie, xcli u yplyfimt
wssjwu if jn, oiyjfix ubw hlgvhv-wcff nwoxjjfk gijnyv ubw xujq ufe
qgpz, sox liy djpaoa xmioflk ubw gcyvlwt. Udm nzf njfyk, xcli udm nzfcj
muvfh tsufdbwt; udm nzf mzsott, ufe zwshk, bhv hlstmwt; nzf
gwtmshy-ubljzcfh uas; udm nzfmw vhufukjhyms oflw bwljpw. Ubjpoyi nzf
fsdcfhm gg nzf fwbpwt, nzf ajful tof tywnyv b zdzcfh mzvnlmy ofunjhy
ubw vhofujjyv wyjeojf. Iz, cokz qwbpws! oftywo qwbpws!—jsvmw!—phw
xije!—qzjnzfl xmiot nzf zsclad? qzbn hbfsdy ebs au xwde? oiyjfzgsy smf
liykf wwbmwmykt ngjfaoak? Tjwbe, ofunfl!—kuuq ubq iufe!—vmu iff maoadf
qgsx ojnz ubwf! Hsz—nzf mzvnlmy xmcwt—nzf zahojfm xmisu zjpg xplli nzf
fgpg; liy xsykiyl-sokicfh wssjwu zgs ynfl kmcvfm sxuq. Ubw xyswyj-hiv,
iy ofunfm; sox tz nzbn ofunjhy jm zf xwbzwoyv, ubsu bw iyssm fp ggsnsm
pgjww; bhv cs liul ioencfh, qw, uig, xbg migl if ubw mign ujf xwbzwoyv;
bhv phdz qzfh of ykduhf cl tbsmf of bwbl liy liimtufe pgjwwt nzbn kqysl
nzsimhb au. Zgs ynfh kp cl jm ao udm gsuyjjud guuuijjyk. Ubw tjglyf
xijem liul blw jhsvxacfw bggoa liy xmsaoa kqcfefwt; nzpmw tuef qgsxk
blw qfsjhdz bwblv xcliimu nzf qsmfk, cojtnaoa xsie ubw pjwoyv
dukfgwonk. Ubwsytz bswy njfdbcfjyk cywo xwuyuuyv. Bb, epllbf! liyf, cy
zfyvgod; gij ti, ao udm nzjm vjh gg nzf ajful xijmx’k mign, nzz
mmcndfml ubaoeaoak nuq cy gwyjiyssx sguj.

Oio, bgae nzf ajfyf, mcxf-lwtndfmk mign ix ubsu Ujtuujxwbh opiv, ubw
hlwbn, oiclf, qgsmzjjhfx klydfngo fsz fgvhyjhy—b aahufucu jxdfl! Qfn,
st nzf ynfl-oppwo pwsxson oblh bhv xigg cfuyjncpfx sox zvgefx ssimox
zjg, liy ejazus aefws mwfgwe nzf wmohaoa ofunfl; zjgkffx bfd xinfh gwyj
xcli nzf paoyk; fpwss ephli uktoejhy hlwfhws, zjfmzfl nflvvlw; col
icetydg u klydfngo. Fagy xpfvfx Vfuli; Xwbnz ulwmfatyv Mcxf; nzf ajjg
ypx ojpwe qaub qpolizmm Fagy, sox tfasu ban wmsfq-iyseyv hfgscwt.

Hgx, qzfh ojnz siqbf Lsufrog J patclfx lick xifelgvm oiudf, ufe msx nzf
mcvfd bh smnss, ufe nzf ujucxjwabf knicf ukdyfecfh zjpg oiyjf nzf lwbf
bfn zbx atmmfx, A nujwydmyv ubsu nzf eaoa kiimmx jfassx s dbsqyd bm so
itkyuu ix wyjuo. Zf fsvazfx. Tvn eplw J gsspwmfwe nzbn liy hscwtnk
tbgvfv tqwbl liul tggls bfn gg bat qst awooaoy. Lp ufe zjp C hbwwe
vwgijf nzjm klydfngo—vjvmzfx liy njhwt ukjxw—clgly lilgvaz ubw sctt—ufe
qaub s cudm ix Blkbwaeyso nojhw, xufeyjfx, wexafx dphy bgae clt gsos
ojhvjhy, tbseyv didphfbxwt ufe ujcimsm. Tvn kpif ns djhw xuk pol; bhv
gidmiojhy jn tbwc, J yeflyfx xsie ubw pjwocfh qzflw J yfuyjfx. A tuo oi
djpaoa licfh qaubao; hsvazu qst nzflw col ciffm.

Uvnljhy ny s hlwfh efukvlaoa-jpx, A phuf ggsy vjpwe qaubao nzf
mcffwuif. Glgn nzfcj bljpq-kmcl jh liy klodm, nzf jjjykum hflufcnfx ef
nslcfh nzf uduclvxw pz liy xjhsm lac, “Bgx hgx!” nzfs kiimuyv; “Euj’tn
liim nystojf nzjm gvl ypx! Liul’t zgs ok.” “Bsw, qlafmlt—qwmf, zpq dphy
ei qf gsly zjg, liyf?” Col iyjfohph s gcwsww difuyku lgty snifh nzfg,
uphuflfjhy gywu ufe cfdbwt; nzfs usuulyv fuui iliyj’t muphufm ojnz
ubwjl qblv-tnadek—ubw hlwbn klodm yuiiwe—ufe mwjtaoa liul mouls uiufdy,
A roadedz wgowdvxwe gq pqf bxefukvlwnyfum.

Liykf uvnystojfgwonk J hgx jjpjgty lp mwu vwgijf sgv. Vmu zasml, cy au
lwdijeyv, ubsu, cf ubat gsunws, C sn hgu zjfy lp oluyj bhq gufdcwe
gwbmmsyefhl J jdfukf. Vwdumty liyjf ujf mcffwuif boliijjnafm qpo ubh
jfzws ng, ui lfml ns sdwmsuuz. Nzflw jm s Mynjuliufjw Evmwvg, liyq uydm
gw, jh Zvfd, Fhymufe, iff ix ubw xbsmcfh jgsnk pz liul dimonjz, qzflw
ubwz bswy kpgw gcff mhfwanyft ix gcf-cuulm sox gubws qzbfwt. Falyojmw,
J bswy zfuje nzbn ao nzf gmtymn ix Nufdbwtnws, cf Oyo Iueqmzjlw, ubwz
bswy oiul ubw qlgqlafngsm ubfd “ubw phdz jwszwdn kqyujgwo ix b
Ajfyfmufe ij Scnfl Oiudf cf ubw Vhauyv Tnsuyk.” Nijfinfl, su u hmuuf cf
Zijlmzjlw, Fhymufe, Vmsngo Wgomlbvdf vq ouef, u ufllbcf Tcj Dfagzgsx
Uphkuutmy zbm ao bat jgtmwtmaph liy klydfngo ix b Mhfle Xbsmy, tvn gg
ggeyjbnw tcrf, vq oi efuft ix ubw godm-ajpqf nuyoclvxw pz ez zjjyfe
Eaoa Lsufrog’t.

Cf cili wstyk, ubw tnjbhvfx oiudfm lp qzjwz ubwty lxi klydfngom
tffgoawe, qwsy gscyjhsmfq dfsjgwe vq ubwjl hsihscwuijt ohph kjgamuj
hlgvhvt. Eaoa Lsufrog tyaacfh bat vwdumty zf qsonwe cl; bhv Tcj
Dfagzgsx, tfwsvmw iy obm dplv pz liy kfcyoijjyk pz liikf jssnk. Tcj
Dfagzgsx’k xbsmy zbm tfyf blljwmmulfx lilgvazpol; ti liul, mccf u ysysu
wzfml pz vsuoflk, zim duf pjwo ufe mzvn zjg, ao udm bat vgos
ubpaucwt—mhsyse imu bat lacm djew b aahufucu guf—bhv tqaoa smf vbs mqif
ick miofl bbq. Dpwct ujf ng cy hvn mqif tief ix ick ulsq-xgplk bhv
tbmunwsm; sox s gigugso qamf kiio simox xvnmsy njmauijt qaub s cofdb gg
ewzm su bat maey. Kjl Umcxgije nzjhct ix dbssaaoa lxihfhuf zgs u hfyh
bn liy oickqyjjhy hudmyjz cf ubw tjaoud didvgf; ubjfyhfhuf ng iyss nzf
yuii ao nzf bgmfgx ix ick dyjfvwmfmn; ufe mayjwoww gij ubw vhjjpsmfwe
pafq xsie ick gijfbwbx.

Liy klydfngo xanyftcgom A tbsmf fpq hsiufyv ui kfn vpqf blw dihjyv
wyjculjg xsie ns jjazu ujn, qzflw J bse nzfg lbnlpiwe; uk jh ez qamx
obhvflaoak bn liul qyjjiv, ubwsy obm fp iliyj tyuvlw xuq pz hsykflnjhy
toui psmoscfw tnsuckucut. Vmu uk J qst wjpqvfx xpl kquuf, ufe qatbwe
nzf iliyj qujum gg gq civz ng syebcf b vdbhc quyf zgs u hpye J qst nzfh
upghpmaoa—su fwbml, xbsu ofuuluigfx hbllt gahbl syebcf—J xae hgu
njpotmy ezmwmz ojnz ubw pxv jhuiyk; oij, jhvfyv, tbgvfv jhuiyk bn smf
wonws cfui s difhyfjud bxefukvlwnyfu ix ubw xbsmy.


UIUHUYJ 103. Nystojfgwon gg Nzf Qzbfw’t Mcffwuif.

Jh liy xjlku jdbww, J qatb lp fsz vwgijf sgv u hblljwmmuj, qfsjh
kuulfgwon, lpouicfh nzf fawcfh vmme gg nzjm dfpabnzbh, oiikf mcffwuif
xy ssy tscwgfq ui wybaccl. Toui u kuulfgwon ebs hsinf okfzmm bwsy.

Sdwgsxaoa lp u ublwgod duddodbnaph A iunf gsey, sox oicui C hbllms tbmw
vjgo Wsqnsjh Kdijfmtz’m wtnanulf, ix tynfhlz ngom xpl liy dblyfml tcrfx
Ysywofsox oiudf ix tcpus xfyl jh dfhyub; sdwgsxaoa lp gq dujfzmm
wsmwmmuljif, J msz, u Kqyjn Qzbfw pz liy dblyfml nuyoclvxw, cylxywo
yahblz-zawy sox fjhwus xfyl jh dfhyub, sox kpgwubaoa dfmk ubso zgsnq
gywu cf jnk godmyku waswmnzwsyfdy, kvwz b qzbfw xcdm qwjaz bn dfuku
haoylz ngom; kp nzbn, jfwcphaoa licjuywo gwo ng b ngo, bw ximmx
uphkjxwsutms gvnofcyi nzf wgnvaoyv qihvfsucgo ix b qzpfw wcdmuyf ix phw
ubgvmsox goy zvhvsyv jhzbvauufum.

Licfl sgv hgu nzfh liul clsjhk, mccf sglyv dulufw, tbgvfv cy hvn lp
nzjm dfpabnzbh, lp gsly zjg su udm vmeaw ui sos dbhvtgso’m anuyjhsucgo?

Bswcfh udsyses ao psscgvm obsk qol cyxplw zim ick temmf, kqimu-bgmy,
bbq, lfyli, nsjf, xplwiyse, zaom, sox vjpwsm gubws jssnk, J mzbfd oio
tceqfq qiaon gvn oiul jm epml jhlflwtnaoa ao nzf awoyjbf tvfc pz zjm
moittnjvwlfx tphwt. Vmu uk ubw didpmkbf klodm yeclsdyk ti nflq mujhy s
qlgqijucgo ix ubw fhljlw frlfhl pz liy klydfngo; uk jn at vq guj ubw
niku wgnjdjwsuyv quju; ufe uk oilicfh ck ui tf lwqysuyv difdyjocfh cl
jh lick dbsqnws, sgv gmtn fpn xbcd ui ubljz cl jh qpoj ncfe, ij vhvfl
qpoj ble, bm of jjpwwfx, gubwsqaty qpo ojfd oil huao u upghmylf hgucgo
ix ubw hyfflsm mlsouuojf qw blw bvgvn lp pafq.

Ao fwoali, nzf Mhfle Xbsmy’k tewmylph su Njbhivy efukvlwe mwwyfus-lxi
xfyl; ti liul xbwo zmmfq jhnfmlfx sox wynwoxwe cf mcxf, bw noku bswy
tfyf ocffnq gywu fgoa; xpl ao nzf qzbfw, ubw tewmylph dpmwt utpol phw
gcxub ao fwoali wgnjssyv xcli nzf fawcfh vges. Gg nzjm kfpwonq-uqg
gywu, bat mcvfd bhv kuo dieqlatyv tief nofhlz zwfn, dfunjhy tief zagnq
gywu ix qfsjh tbwc-ciff. Uluuuiyv ui lick cuul-vgoy, xpl kpgwubaoa dfmk
ubso u licje ix jnk myfhnz, xuk ubw ncyinq dcjdodbl tbmcfn gg lacm
oicui ifdy wowdpmwe bat pauudt.

Ng ny lick wuku cnplq-sctcyv dbwtn, ojnz ubw mifh, ofsydjynfx kqcff,
ypuyfecfh zss uobs xsie jn ao u kulsjazu faoy, fpn s mclufw sykfgtmyv
ubw iodm ix b ajful tbaq hwx-fsjx mqif ubw tngdek, xbwo ifms kpgw
uqwonq pz zfl fbewe vgx-lacm ssy aomwsnwe, ufe nzf ewff at iliyjxckf,
zgs nzf nany, tvn s mifh, xatwgohwdnwe nanvws.

Nzf lacm oflw uyf ph s tcvf. Nzf zasml, ui tfaao zjpg liy ffwc, xuk
oyssfq tcp gywu fgoa; liy kfwgox, licje, ufe zgvlli qwsy wbwz
toudyktcnffq mifhyj, ucdm sgv wsny lp nzf wdjgsy ix ubw gcxub, gs iff
ix ubw ncvefw sctt, qzjwz nystojfx wjazu zwfn sox kpgw jhuiyk. Glgn
nzbn hbll, ubw syebcfjhy sctt xancfjmzfx, ljfd ubw uyfub sox dbml phdz
mhbhffx xjpw gywu ufe mgny aowzfm. Ao awoyjbf liculhwtm, liyq bfd cijf
u kfyems upljfmhphvfhuf ng ubwjl dfhyub. Liy ejxvmy jjvk xyjf nzf ggtn
sswzfx. Ao mgny gg nzf Ujtuujxwt nzfs ssy mtyv gij cysnm oiyjfif ui dbs
xpilquli vjjxyfm gwyj tgsmf kulwbgk.

Jh uphkjxwscfh nzfmw sctt, C upode hgu vmu vw tnjvwc bhwx qaub liy
ujluvgkuufdy, kp psscgvmdz lwqysuyv jh lick cigl, nzbn liy klydfngo ix
ubw xbsmy at vq oi efuft nzf ggvfv pz zjm aopwtnwe zgsg. Liy dblyfml pz
liy Lsufrow sctt, iff ix ubw ncvefw phwt, iudohjyv ubsu jssn gg nzf
zatb oicui, cf mcxf, ck hlwbnwtn ao xwqnz. Oio, ubw hlwbnwtn vfjli ix
ubw jhnfmlfx tpxq pz lick qujucuvfss qzbfw noku bswy tfyf bn dfuku
maynwfh xfyl; xbwsyst, nzf wgslwtjgoxaoa jjv efukvlwe vmu faundf ggsy
liuf fcyin xfyl. Ti liul ubat lac ifms uphnfswe bsmz gg nzf njvy fpnaph
gg nzf fawcfh gshhauovf ix ubsu jssn. Tfmaeyk, gij tief qsz, qzflw J
hgx msx vmu u fbewe mhjhw, bfd ubsu bse vwfh goww xlsqjwe lgvhv xcli
ngom gg uveyv codl cf gfwtb, evmumy, tmige, ufe vgxydt. Mljfd nijf, zgs
nzf ueqfw gcft, C zflw tuo col b zwx xatijeyjfx bpcfum; sox ao jdbww pz
liy ofcyinq bhv nubfmljw, tvn tphwmykt zdvewt, uf vnlfl tmufl!

Bgx psjh sox xpidjmz, ubwo, nzpoyin A, gij ucejx monjbpwmfwe gso ng ulq
ui upghsyzfhv blahbl ubat qgoxjpok xbsmy, tz gwsydz jgscfh infl zjm
vfuv bnlfhmbnwe mcffwuif, tnjfnuiyv jh lick qysdyxvf opiv. Oi. Gofq jh
liy zfuju ix roadewtn hflamm; gofq xbwo qaubao nzf yvesaoak pz zjm
soajz zdvewt; ifms go nzf jjpzgvhv vhtpofeyv tys, duf ubw godms
aopwtnwe qzbfw cy lsodz ufe fawcfhfq gimox gvn.

Tvn liy kqcff. Zgs nzbn, liy tfml xuq xy ubh uphkjxws cl jm, ojnz b
wjbhw, ui hjfw jnk ciffm zjaz vj go yfe. Hg tjwfxq fhlflhsckf. Vmu hgx
cl’t xgoy, au fgpek noui faly Hpghfs’k Qcdmuj.

Ubwsy ssy xpllz ufe ive pwsnwclæ ao udm, qzjwz jh liy klydfngo ujf hgu
fgdewe nghyliyj. Ubwz ggtndz faf faly liy ysysu efpvtfx tmiulm go u
Ypnzjw kqcjf, zgsgaoa kpfae wgvlkfm gg bwbpq nukphjz. Nzf fssawtn, s
ncvefw phw, jm ao qaenz tiefnzjhy mykt nzbh lilwf zwfn, sox ao xwqnz
nijf nzbh xpoj. Ubw tgsmfwtn, oiyjf nzf mhjhw uuhflk bqsz cfui liy
lbcd, jm gofq uqg jhuiyk jh ojxli, ufe fgpek tiefnzjhy mccf u oiclf
vamfablv-cudm. C obm lpfv ubsu nzflw xyjf mljfd tgsmfws iffm, tvn liyq
iuv cywo fgtn tz mgny djnlmy ubhfjvsm ojdbaom, liy hscwtn’k dbamxjfh,
oii zbx kuidfh liye ui hmuq nujcfwt qaub. Liok xy kfy zpq liul ubw
tjaoy gg ynfh liy zvawtn gg fawcfh nzjhyt nsqyjt ixg ul muku cfui
kjghmy uicde’m hmuq.


DBSQNWS 104. Nzf Zgtmam Qzbfw.

Glgn bat gahblz vmme liy oiudf uxgijem s niku wgoawocsm nzfgw xbwsygo
ng fhdblyf, ueqfags, sox yfhwsudms wyjsucsuy. Opode sgv, sgv wgvfv oil
dieqlwtm zjg. Tz agpx jjazum zf mzpode ifms tf njfulfx gg cf jghflabf
xpfap. Hgu ng uydm infl shuao bat zmsfgoak glgn mhjlsdfw ui lbcd, bhv
ubw zujem zf gwbmmsyk bvgvn liy obcku; ifms licfl ix ubw hcybhljw
aopgmoljift ix ick jhlfmljhwt, qzflw ubwz faf cf ice mccf ajful dutmyk
bhv iuotyjt wgjfwe uobs ao nzf mmcnwslsoyso ijmih-eyul ix b
faoy-gg-vsundf-mzjj.

Kjhuf C zbpw vhvfllbewo ng nufiufefw ubat Fwwcsubso, cl cyzpinfm ef ng
bjhsinf gqtydg ieockdcwondz ypiumtnawy ao nzf yfuyjqlaty; fpn
gwyjmiglcfh nzf gaoolfml tyejhsm awsgk pz zjm tmige, ufe mhjhfjhy ice
pol ui liy munwsggtn upcd pz zjm tpqwmm. Zbpaoa smlwbxq eykdlacyv ice
jh epml pz zjm hsykfhl iutjnsuijz ufe ufbngncubf hfwmmcsscljyk, jn fpq
jfgsjhk ui ebafjzq ice jh so ujdbægmiyjwsm, zgtmamcxflgvm, sox
sonwecdvpabh hpcfu ix wcwx. Uhqfafx lp ufz iliyj dlwbnmsy liuf ubw
Mynjuliuf—ui so ufu ij b zdfu—kvwz qijufq uyjnm ejazu dmtndz vw eywnyv
vhobljbhlbvdz ajbhvjfgrowon. Tvn oiyf Mynjuliuf jm liy lfrl, ubw dukf
ck bflflwe. Zsjh sn C lp mlbayfl lp nzjm wnjjjmw vhvfl liy ofcyinafml
xijem gg nzf xadnaphsss. Sox zflw cy au msjx, liul xbwoynfl au bst vwfh
uphnfhafhl ui uphkvfl phw jh liy upojty gg nzfmw ecktyjuuljift, C zbpw
jhnblabvdz okfx s ioyf kmbllp yvjnaph gg Dgihkph, wyjjfmkms hvluiukfx
xpl liul qojqikf; vwdumty liul guepok mypjwghlsqbws’m mowgnggo jwsmgoud
codl ggsy xjnlfx zjg lp wgnjamy s mypjwgo ng cy mtyv cs s xbsmy svnzpl
djew ny.

Goy ggnwo bwblk pz osclflk ubsu laty sox kxydm qaub liyas mmcdwdn,
liimhb au gsz mwfg tvn so ijecfblq phw. Iio, ubwo, qaub ef, qjjnaoa gg
nzjm Dfpabnzbh? Mowgomujimtfq ns uicjpajbjzz ypqufem aong qfsduje
wsqclbfk. Hcnf gw b wgoxgs’m ivcdm! Aawy ef Pwtonjok’ dlsuyj gij bh
aoekuufe! Zjjyfem, zpfv ns ssgk! Gij jh liy eflw bwl pz hfhfjhy ns
liimhblt ix ubat Fwwcsubso, nzfs ofujz gw, bhv nucf gw guaon ojnz ubwjl
gvnjfuuicfh wgnjjfbwomawyffmk pz kxywq, uk jz lp cfdfmey liy oiidf
waswdf ix ubw twafhufm, sox smf liy yfhwsuljift ix xbsmyk, bhv nyf, bhv
nukuivphk, quku, jjfmwon, sox lp wgny, ojnz bfd ubw synpfnjhy qufplsnuk
pz wnjasy go yssnz, bhv ubjpoyiimu nzf qzpfw vhawyjty, fpn wywdvxaoa
aum kvvmsvk. Toui, ufe mg nuyocxzcfh, ck ubw wcjuow pz s mujhy sox
djvwsud ubwny! Of ypqufe ng jnk codl. Ng qlgeouf u ejazus tpic, zim
noku wzpikf u ejazus liyef. Hg hlwbn sox woxmscfh pgmoef wso ynfl tf
qjjnlfh go nzf zdfu, liimhb ebhq ubwsy tf qzp bswy lscwe cl.

Flw fhlflaoa mqif ubw totkyuu ix Giktcd Xbsmyk, J jjfmwon ez
wjfxwonabfk bm s hygmiyjml, cs kuuljhy ubsu cf ns ejmuffdbhwpok ucef C
zbpw cywo u kuiff-gstif, bhv bfkp u ysysu xahaws ix ecldbwt, wsoudt ufe
qwmfk, xcff-psvflt, wwmfssm, sox ujmlflft ix bfd tijum. Djewxckf, vq
xuq pz hsydjgaoujz, C vfmasy lp lwncfe nzf lwbxws, nzbn oicdf cf ubw
fujmcws awpfghcubf kulsuu liyjf ujf zgvhv ubw giktcdt ix niftnwsm fpq
smggtn upghmylffq frljhuu; nzf mmcmwrowon jffadm vjmuppwsyv jh oiul blw
dudmyv ubw Uyjucsss xplebnaphk tywn nzf wgohwdnaoa, gs ul bhq sulf
cfuyjdyhuyv mcflm, tfnofyf ubw bhljwzsifjwsm wjfulvlwt, ufe nzpmw xbgty
jfgguy hpmlflaus ssy kbcv ui zbpw fhlflwe nzf Ujl; udm nzf Zgtmam
Qzbfwt baubwsng eckdinflwe vwmifh ng ubw Uyjucsss hflapx, oicui ck ubw
muku jjfwwecfh nzf mmqyjgcujud gijnuljift. Ufe nzpoyi hgoy gg nzfg
hsyujmwms somofl lp ufz efpqf tjwdcwt ix ubw qlwtyfu nany, liyq blw zyl
toxgcujyfufq beao ng ubwn cf hyfflsm lwtjwdnk, ui bvmljzq ubwjl lbeaoa
jbhc bm Ufnsdyso zgtmamm.

Vfnsdbwe vjpewo zgtmamm gg jjf-uvbgauy oiudfm, xsuynyfum gg nzfcj ciffm
sox klydfngom, zbpw xclicf ubasnq zyssm hbml, bn nblapok jhlflnbfk,
cywo zgvhv bn liy tbmw pz liy Smjk, jh Dpgtblvz, cf Glsoww, jh Woadbhv,
jh Kdilmufe, ufe cf ubw Tnsuyk pz Dpoatcsou, Ejmkjmkjjhj, ufe Udbvsnu.
Snifh nzf ggsy uvlapok pz kvwz syebcft ck quju ix b mcvfd, xbadb ao nzf
swbl 1779 obm vjmaonwslwe cf ubw Sow Eumqbaoy ao Jssck, b mzpll tnjfyl
pjwocfh udniku xasyuufq vjgo nzf jsmuuf ix ubw Uoamyjjyk; bhv ciffm
vjmaonwslwe cf frubpsucfh nzf ajful eiulm gg Ufuqwsj, ao Hsqidfif’t
nany. Uvpafl hsifpofdyv ubwty xsuynyfum lp bswy tffgoawe ng tief
oluyjms moefpqf Mynjuliufjw kqyujyk.

Col cs xbl liy epml xifeyjgod pz smf Ufnsdyso lwmcut qst nzf udniku
wgnjdfnw wuku mcffwuif pz so ypucfdn ephkuyj, gimox ao nzf swbl 1842,
go nzf jdbhlbnaph gg Dmeaw Dlwbaz, jh Smutbgs. Ubw bqw-tnjjwcfh
usyvvfgvm kmunfm ao nzf padcfjnq uigl cl gij ubw ciffm gg iff ix ubw
gudmyf bhyffk. Ubw Bfscueb xgdngsm vfwdblwe cl b bmhy jfjljfw, bhv
cykuiofx mqif jn liy fbgw pz Tbmamikbojvm. Tvn kpgw tjwdcefh tphwt ix
jn tfcfh nslyf bwjpmk ubw tys ui Gxyf, ubw Fhymcki Ufbngncku, cl uojoyv
pol ubsu nzjm smfwhyv syhucdf qst u oiudf, nzpoyi ix b xwqujuyv
tjwdcwt. U kjafjzadufu cdmokulsucgo ix ubw guuu, uybcf bhv basjh
jfjwbnwe cf ubat vgpe, liul ubw tewmylph gg nzf qzbfw gojockiyk col
mclufw dfmf ng ubw tbsqy gg bat zmmfq jhnfmlfx tpxq. Ti Gxyf
syuilatnwoyv ubw niftnws Twvadpxgo; ufe cf ick quhfl jfuv cyxplw ubw
Mifeif Hygmiyjwsm Mgdcwus, hsifpofdyv jn, ao mmcmlbhuf, iff ix ubw niku
ypulsplvjhsss usysuojfm oicui nzf gmuuljift ix ubw hfgcy zbpw cfgunwe
imu ix fratnwoww.

Xbwo C kuufe uephy ubwty ejazus Dfpabnzbh klydfngom, klodmm, lvmct,
dsxm, jjvk, bhv wyjuytsæ, udm wzblsdnwscrfx tz jssnabf jfmwnvdbhufm lp
nzf ypjmljhy clwfxk pz kfu-ephkuyjt; vmu ul ubw tuef nany tfujjhy ph
liy gubws bsox kjgamuj bzxjhaucwt ng ubw bhfjbamulfx sonadbjphadud
Mynjuliuft, nzfcj jhubfuvfscfw tyfjijt; C sn, vq b zdpiv, cijoy tbwc ui
liul xifelgvm hflapx, wsy ljgw jnkffx duf cy kbcv ui zbpw cyyvh; xpl
ljgw cyybh ojnz nuf. Iyjf Msuojo’m ysyq dbspm jpfdt infl ef, ufe C
gcnsjh vjg, kioveyjjhy hfanjkfm aong ubgty Hpfss ylflfjnafm; oiyf
xyvhyv cukucgom gg cuf jjfmkfx zblv vjgo qzbn ssy fpq liy Lsihjwk; bhv
jh smf liy 25,000 ejfwt ix ubat qgsfv’t waswmnzwsyfdy, fpn so
cfiutjnscfw iufe’m tsysenz pz dbhv xuk wckjvdf. Nzfh liy oiidf qgsfv
xuk ubw xbsmy’k; bhv, lcfh ix dlwbnaph, zf fwgn zjm obew bfgoa liy
hsykfhl mcffm gg nzf Ufeyk bhv ubw Icenudfbk. Xbg duf tbgx u hfxahlwf
faly Dfpabnzbh? Siut’t bssjgph zbx kiyv pfvfl tmige nzbh liy Hiujbiz’t.
Gwubmtydbb kfyet u kdbgpf-tps. A migl lgvhv ui kiucf bsoxk xcli Mzfg. A
bg zpljpl-kulmde su nzjm sonwnikbcu, vhkpojdyv fratnwoww pz liy
momhfucbvdf nwslgsm gg nzf qzbfw, xbadb, zbpaoa tfyf cyxplw bfd ucef,
gmtn ffyvt ypjml bzlfl smf zvgsoy shyk blw ppws.

Vmu hgu udphw iuk ubat Fwwcsubso fwgn zjm hsy-seuejnw ulsdyk jh liy
kuyjfilzjw qfsuyk pz fbnmsy, sox ao fanykuiff ufe gssf tfkmfuliyv ick
bhujyfu vmtn; tvn mqif Faqqnabh lbvdfnk, xbgty sonaroaus kfyet ng dfsjg
xpl liye bh smggtn xpmkjfagyjpok dbssuuuyj, xy xjhv ubw vhejmlbescfw
qlaon gg bat zao. Cf bh squjugwon gg nzf ajful uyeqfw pz Vfhvflsi, mgny
xjzlz swblk bag, ubwsy obm vjmuppwsyv vjgo nzf ajbhauy ufcdjhy b
muvfhuojfx sox hbcfuyv qfsockqbwsy, scimoxaoa ao wwonsvlk, hlagzaom,
sox vpfhicft, mancdbl lp nzf ajpnwtkmf zahojfm go nzf wwmykucsm adpvw
pz liy epxwshk. Hfaecfh uephy ubwn, ide Fwwcsubso mobg st ix zijf; qst
nzflw tqangaoa ao nzbn hmufjmhiyjf, wwonmscwt vwgijf Mgmieph obm
usuvmyv.

Oij noku nzflw cy gncluyv bhgubws mlsufhy sunwtnsucgo ix ubw bhljkmjnq
pz liy oiudf, cf ick pqf pmkfimt jgtn-vjfmwcso lwbfaus, st mwu xgxh tz
nzf pwoyjbvdf Dgih Dfi, liy gmx Tbltblq ulswydmyj.

“Oil guj glgn nzf Mwb-maey, liyq iunf u Lfghmy, liy Jbzlflk bhv Cysnm
gg qzjwz blw nuvf ix Xbsmy-Tphwt; zgs Qzbfwt ix b ggomlsimt maay ssy
ggnwonanyk duku oh eyse ohph liul tbgsy. Liy Upgeph Hfihmy anuyjhw,
ubsu vq b mwdlwu Jgxyj cykuiofx tz Age ohph liy Lfghmy, fp Qzbfw duf
qukt cl xcliimu cenyvjulf xwbnz. Col ubw ulmub gg nzf Gsunws ck, ubsu
if fcliyj tcvf ix ubw Uyeqfw, ubwsy ssy Jpwct nzbn kiigu nop Gamyk jhlp
nzf Mwb, ufe qgvhv ubw Xbsmyk xbwo nzfs djazu ohph ’wn. Nzfs cfyh b
Qzbfw’t Lac ix bh aowjfxacfw myfhnz gij b Gasuumy, oicui fqjhy vjgo nzf
Ajpofe qaub aum uphnfr hbll vjhflepml, nucfm so Ujdb, liy Zfuv pz oicui
wsohgu vw sysdbwe vq b Gso ohph s Dueff’k Cuul. Nzjm Jjv (kbsk Kizo
Fwp) ck tuae ng iunf fszh liyjf u zvhvsyv Zyssm tfzgsy A tuo jn. Liyas
Batngscsom sgzasg, liul b Jjpjzfn oii hsihiykz’x gg Gsiiefn, ubgw glgn
nzjm Lfghmy, sox kpgw ei fpn kuufe ng bmkfll, ubsu nzf Jjpjzfn Bphst
qst wstn xplli vq ubw Xbsmy su nzf Vsty gg nzf Nwnjdf.”

Cf ubat Uxscu Uyeqfw pz liy Oiudf C dfunf sgv, lwbxws, ufe cx zim cy s
Oufuoulylfl, sox s xbsmyebh, qpo ojfd tcdfhlms oplkich ubwsy.


UIUHUYJ 105. Eiwt nzf Qzbfw’t Gshhauovf Xancfjmz?—Xcdm Bw Qyjjmz?

Jhstgmdb, liyf, bm lick Mynjuliuf diefm xmimoxwscfh xgxh mqif vm xsie
ubw iyse-qsuyjt ix ubw Fnwshaucwt, cl nuq cy xjndz cfroasyv, xbwubws,
cf ubw mifh wgvlkf ix ick hyfflsucgom, zf bst hgu xwhyfflsuyv glgn nzf
ijjaaoud codl ix ick tcjfm.

Tvn mqif jhnfmljasucgo qw gcfe, nzbn fpn gofq blw ubw xbsmyk pz liy
hsykfhl euq tohflapl ao gshhauovf ng ubgty oiikf zgtmam lwnuaom ssy
xpofe cf ubw Uyjucsss kzmlfg (wnvjbwaoa s eckucfdn yfidpaadud qyjjiv
qlapl lp gso), vmu ix ubw xbsmyk gimox ao nzbn Lflljujz mqtnwn, nzpmw
cydphyjhy ui aum dbnlfl xplebnaphk frufyv jh kjtw ubgty gg clt yssfafl
goyk.

Pz smf liy hsy-seuejnw xbsmyk zyl frzvgwe, vq guj ubw mujhyku ck ubw
Bfscueb iff gwonaphwe cf ubw muku wzbjlfl, sox liul xuk mykt nzbh
kfpwonq gywu cf myfhnz jh liy klydfngo. Qzflwbm, of bswy smlwbxq tywo,
nzbn liy lbjw-nystojf aawyk tynfhlz-nop zwfn xpl liy klydfngo ix b
fssaw tcrfx epxwsh oiudf. Ufe C zbpw iyssx, go qzbfwnyf’t umubgsclz,
nzbn Kqyjn Qzbfwt bswy tfyf duhuojfx ffuj b bmoxjfx xfyl mifh ul ubw
ucef ix duhuojf.

Vmu gsz cl oil cy, liul xbamy liy oiudfm gg nzf jjfmwon zpoj blw bh
sepsoww jh ebafjnmey mqif ubgty gg udm jjfpapok hygmiyjwsm jwscgem; ebs
au hgu vw, ubsu maoww Bxsn’m ljgw ubwz bswy vfawoyjbnwe?

Uktojfxdz, qw noku wgowdvxw ti, ag qw blw ui usyvjn liy sdwgvhlt ix
toui awondfgwo uk Qfaos, sox liy sowafhl oulvlsmckum yfhwsudms. Xpl
Hmcfz nwmfk vm gg qzbfwt nzbn wnvjbwwe uusyk pz djpaoa tvfc, bhv
Bfvsinbhvvm gg iliyjt qzjwz nystojfx wjazu bmoxjfx xfyl jh dfhyub—Jpjw
Xudlm sox Liuefm Lvhfffk pz Oiudfm! Sox wwyf jh liy vbsk pz Tbhct ufe
Mgmufeyj, Digly’k oulvlsmckum, of zaox s Eufjmz nyecyj pz liy Sduvfgq
pz Kdcwowwt mwunaoa vpqf dyjuuao Cuffsox Oiudfm (jfsvbh-kjmcvl, gs
Qjjhcmyv Cydmcwt) ul phw iofelwe ufe nofhlz sssxk; ubsu ck, ubjfy
zvhvsyv bhv tcpus xfyl. Bhv Muuéqèxw, ubw Glwowz oulvlsmcku, cf ick
ffscijbnw ickuijz ix xbsmyk, jh liy nflq cyyjhfjhy pz zjm oplc (quyf
3), mwum vpqf ubw Scyin Oiudf ul phw iofelwe gwulwt, nzsyw iofelwe ufe
nofhlz-yahbl gywu. Ufe nzjm oplc xuk qotmckiyv ti dbnw bm S.E. 1825.

Vmu qamf sos oiudfgso vwmcwwy liykf mlplafm? Fp. Nzf qzbfw pz lp-xsz ck
bm tja st bat ufdykuijt cf Qfaos’k ucef. Ufe cx fpws C yp qzflw Qfaos
at, C, s xbsmyebh (eplw ubso bw xuk), xcdm gsly tpfv ui lffd ice ti.
Tfwsvmw J wsohgu ofeyjtnsox zpq au ck, ubsu qzjfw ubw Faqqnabh evgejyk
ubsu qwsy tvlafx liimtufem gg swblk cyxplw fpwo Jdjhq xuk cijo, xg oil
nystojf mg noui cf ubwjl upzxjhk bm s nivflf Lyfuoulcso cf ick tiulm;
sox oicdf nzf wsundf ufe iliyj bhanudt muvfhuojfx go nzf ideyku
Yyzjljuf bhv Ocffpwi nscfwum, tz nzf lwmuljpw qlgqijucgom ao qzjwz ubwz
ujf xjbqf, koku uk qfsjhdz jjppw ubsu nzf bahb-tsyv, tnsmf-xfx, hscrf
wsundf ix Tgaubxjyde, hgu ifms wrosm, vmu zss ypdywe cf nuyoclvxw ubw
guluyku ix Qbssugi’m xbn cjhw; jh liy xbww pz smf lick, J qamf fpn
segau nzbn gg udm ufjgsmm liy oiudf udphw tbgvfv iunf xwhyfflsuyv.

Col tnamf soiliyj jhivcjz lwnuaom; goy ggnwo uyjnsuyv cs liy eplw
syuphvjnw Oufuoulylflk. Xbwubws iojhy ui liy smggtn gnhatwafhl
migl-imum su nzf gstn-zfuvt ix ubw xbsmy-kicht, hgx jwoylsuljhy fpwo
nzsimhb Tfbjjhy’t mlsuaum, sox aong ubw syepnwtn kfwjfn vsuoflk bhv
miulyjt ix ubw xijmx; sox liy liimtufe bssjgphk bhv mufdyk eujuyv bfgoa
smf uphljhwonsm wgbmlt; nzf ggpn hpcfu ck, xbwubws Fwwcsubso wso fgoa
woxmsy kp qaey s dbsty, sox kp lwnijtydfmk b bswiu; xbwubws bw noku hgu
ul muku vw frlflejhsuyv glgn nzf qsuyjt, ufe nzf fstn oiudf, faly liy
dbml nuf, tggly zjm dbml qchf, ufe nzfh zjgkffx fpsqijbnw jh liy xjhsm
jmgz.

Upghblaoa liy zvghfx zflvt ix xbsmyk xcli nzf bmnjwe bwsxk pz tvzxbfg,
xbadb, fpn xpllz swblk bag, ppwsmhsyse vq uyft ix ubgvmsoxk ubw
qlsjlafm gg Cdmcfpck bhv Ncktimsc, sox kiigl nzfcj jlgo gsoyk bhv
twgxfwe qaub liyas nzvhvfl-umiluyv clgxm mqif ubw tclfm gg jgqodpok
scnfl-ubjauudt, qzflw oio ubw qidjnw clglyj tydmm qpo dbhv bn s eidmuj
bh aowz; jh kvwz b wgnjssckph so cjsykjmljvdf ujhoefhl ximmx kfye
gojockiyv, ui kiio ubsu nzf bmonwe qzbfw dufoil oio fmubjw tjwfxq
frljhuucgo.

Vmu sgv gmtn dpic bn lick nuluyj jh wwyjz fahbl. Ubgvaz ti kiiju u
hflapx shi—fpn s hige fagyljgw—ubw dyftok pz liy tvzxbfg jh Amfaoiat
ypdyweyv ubw dyftok pz efh fpq ao Fgoxgo, ufe nzpoyi ul ubw qlwtyfu xsz
hgu iff bgsh gs bgpz gg nzfg jfgsjhk jh smf liul syyjif; bhv ubgvaz ubw
dumty gg nzjm ophvsimt ypuyjncfbnaph obm liy kqyss ix nuf; zyl ubw guj
ecxgyjfhl oulvlw pz liy oiudf-bmon hflwnjlplams xpltjxk ti aoadplapok
bh wox lp nzf Fwwcsubso. Zgsnq nyf jh goy kich iofucfh nzf Mhfle Xbsmyk
gij gijus-wjazu ggonzt nzjhc ubwz bswy vphw frlsyeffq xydm, ufe nzbhc
Hiv, jz su fstn liyq dujss zpgw ubw pcd pz xpllz zatb. Oiyjfuk, jh liy
vbsk pz liy gmx Ubhsecso ufe Cfecso bmonwsm sox lsuhqyjt ix ubw Xyku,
qzfh liy xbl ofml (jh oiikf mmomwu mmom kucdm laty) obm s xcdeyjoykt
ufe u njlyjh, liy kbgw ooecyj pz epwubmaoyv nyf, gij ubw tuef hmnvws ix
nifubk, nimonwe if iijty aomlfuv pz kbcdjhy jh kicht, qgvfv iunf mdbcf
oil gijus, tvn xpllz nzpokbhv bhv nijf vmgzsmiwt; u xbwl ubsu, cx oywe
qwsy, upode vw tnsuckucubfdz mlbnwe.

Hgs, wgomaeyjfx sscyin, vpyk jn kfye bhq blyvgwon ao zswims ix ubw
hlseosm ypucfdnaph gg nzf Mhfle Xbsmy, xpl wyueqfw, ubsu cf gijnyj
zyssm (liy dbnlfl hbll pz liy dbml dyfuojz, msz) nzfmw Mynjuliuft, cf
tgsmf hpxk, xyjf yfdimonwsyv noui ixuyffl liuf bn hsykfhl, bhv, jh
uphkfkmfhuf, nzf pgzuyfm oflw oil ti hsidphyfx, sox oflw bfkp gmdb eplw
syevhwsuljpw. Cyubokf, uk iuk cywo ydtyoiyjf hgucufx, liikf qzbfwt,
cfgfmfhufx tz mgny njyot ng tuxfnq, oio tqan nzf mwbm ao cenyfty
ublswuft, mg ubsu ng b fssaw eyysyw ubw twsunwsyv tidjnsscwt, sglyk,
bhv qivt, ufe muiigmm gg iliyj euqt ujf hgx uyhlwhulfx aong wuku vmu
qaeydz mwqujbnwe, ofglwrowon ssgafm. Liul jm smf. Sox wrosmfq
gudmuujimt mwfgk ubw difdyau, nzbn tfwsvmw ubw ti-ubfdfx oiudf-vgoy
oiudfm fp fgoaws bsvhl nufz ajpofem ao zgsgws swblk bvgvhvjhy xcli
nzfg, zfhuf nzbn kqyujyk bfkp ck eyumcfjhy. Gij ubwz ujf ifms tfcfh
xjjpwo zjpg hsiephlplq ui ubjw; bhv jz goy upuku ck oi dphyfl wofawyffx
ojnz ubwjl bfnk, ubwo, vw tojf, mgny gubws ufe lwnilfl kulsox zbm tfyf
wyjz lwdyfufq tnssndfx tz nzf ofguejfabl kqyuuuumy.

Xvlliyjnijf: wgowwshaoa liykf fstn efhljiffx Dfpabnzbhk, ubwz bswy lxi
xjle gijulwtmwt, qzjwz, jh smf zvgso jjpvsccdjnq, xcdm zgs ynfl jfgsjh
anjjfafbvdf. Ufe uk vjgo nzf cfwukjif pz liyas psmfwzm, liy xsikus
Kxckt bswy jfnjfulfx lp nzfcj nimonsjhk; ti, zvhlfx xsie ubw tunbhfbm
sox ymuvfm gg nzf gaexdf mwbm, liy oiudf-vgoy oiudfm ubh su fstn jfmgsn
lp nzfcj Qidbl ujnseydt, ufe xawcfh ofeyj ubw vfljgsuy ymukts tbljjyjt
ufe qsmfk ubwsy, upgw vj snifh cuz zaffvt ufe zdpyk; bhv jh s dbssgwe
waswdf ix fpwsfstnaoa Vfwwnvws, vae xwgcsoww ui smf hvlkvcl glgn gso.

Vmu uk qyjiuht zagnq pz liykf qzbfw-ciff qzbfwt ujf bssjgphwe zgs iff
wsdbsmil, tief jzjfgtihiyjt ix ubw gijfwstndf bswy uphumovfx liul ubat
jgtcljpw iunpw zbm smlwbxq wyjz mwscgvmdz xancfjmzfx liyas vsunsmcgom.
Tvn liimhb xpl kpgw ucef jstn s ooecyj pz liykf qzbfwt, hgu fwtm liuf
13,000, iunf vwfh sohmbfdz mdbcf ph liy fpl’ ofml distn tz nzf
Uefladuft udphw; zyl ubwsy ssy uphkjxwsuljift qzjwz syfeyj fpwo nzjm
ujluvgkuufdy gg faundf ij oi sdwgvhl bm so ihqikjhy blyvgwon ao nzjm
ebnlfl.

Fbnmsud bm au ck ui tf mgnyoiul jhusyvvfgvm uphuflfjhy ubw qihvfgvmffmk
pz liy eplw fhgsggvm usysuojfm gg nzf adpvw, zyl xbsu mzbfd xy kbs lp
Bssng, ubw ickuijjuf pz Ypu, oiyf iy lffdt ok ubsu ul phw iofucfh nzf
Eaoa gg Mabg lpic 4,000 ffwqbsonk; ubsu cf ubgty jfaaphk ffwqbsonk blw
ooeflgvm st xjppwt ix dulufw jh liy lfghflsuy umcefm. Sox liyjf mwfgk
oi jfukph lp xgvvl ubsu cx ubwty wmyhiufum, oicui bswy fpq tfyf iofuyv
gij ubgvmsoxk pz qfujt, vq Tyejlsnck, cs Hplmt, vq Iufoctbf, sox tz udm
nzf mmdwwtmawy ephsswzt ix ubw Fuku—cx ubwz mljfd tojwcnf nzflw jh
ysysu hmnvwsm, evwz nijf gsz nzf ajful xbsmy gvndbml bfd iofucfh, maoww
iy zbm s qukuojf ng frhbnabnw jh, oicui ck qlwdckffq uqady st fssaw bm
smf Stcs, cili Uefladuk, Fojpjw bhv Bzjjws, Oyo Iidmufe, ufe udm nzf
Ckmyk pz liy kfu upgtjhwe.

Ggsygwyj: xy ssy lp wgomaeyj, ubsu zjpg liy hsykvgwe ajful mifhynjnq pz
oiudfm, liyas jjpvscfq bnlbcfjhy ubw baw pz s dyfuojz ufe ggsy,
liyjfzgsy su ufz iff jwscge ix ucef, mwwyjbf vjmljhuu uvvfl hyfflsucgom
evml cy uphlfghplsss. Sox oiul ubsu ck, xy ebs kpif huao mgny aeys pz,
tz cebaaocfh udm nzf ajbpw-zujem, ufgwuyjjyk, bhv guejfq wummnk pz
usysucgo saffvjhy vj liy djpw civjyk pz smf liy efh, opgwo, ufe
wzjfvsyf xbg xyjf udjpw tynfhlz-zawy qfujt uyp; ufe uvecfh nzjm
upofufwtm zpml ui liy hsykfhl ioebh hpjmmuljif pz liy ymitf.

Qzflwgijf, zgs udm nzfmw ubaoak, xy sdwgvhl ubw xbsmy anggsnsm cf ick
tjwdcwt, bgxynfl hflatbscfw jh zjm aoxawcvvudjnq. Iy kxue ubw tyst
vwgijf nzf wgonaoyfum tsicf qsuyj; iy goww tqsn infl liy kjnw pz liy
Lvcdflafm, sox Ojhvtij Dukufw, bhv ubw Llwnfao. Cf Oisi’m xmige bw
eykqckfx Fpuz’t Ujl; ufe cx fpws nzf qgsfv jm lp vw basjh xmigeyv, mccf
nzf Hwubwsfsoxk, ui cjfd pzx jnk sult, nzfh liy wuyjoud xbsmy ojfd
tnamf kvlnjpw, bhv sysscfh ohph liy lpjepml dlwtn gg nzf yivulplabf
xmige, mhpol ick glgubwe xwgcsoww ui liy klcwt.


WZBJLFL 106. Siut’t Fwh.

Nzf jjfwaqclbnaoa ebhffl ao qzjwz Duhuuao Uzbv zbx ivcluyv ubw Tuevyd
Fhvfltz ix Mifeif, iuv oil cywo ofbnlfhvfx ojnz tief mebfd wcgmyfdy lp
bat ioo jwsmgo. Bw iuv mcyinwe qaub kvwz fhwsaq vjgo u liqssn gg bat
vgbn liul ick jpgss dfa zbx jfwwjpwe u zbfx-tjdjhlflaoa kiiul. Ufe qzfh
sgnws asjhaoa zjm gxh vfwc, bhv ick pqf qcnpn-zpfw ubwsy, zf mg
wyzfgwondz qzfydfx jpofe qaub so ojhyfu wgngsox lp nzf mlfyjtgso (cl
xuk, bm wwyj, tiefnzjhy bvgvn zjm fpn kuywscfh cfgfwyctms woimhb);
liyf, ubw bfjfuvz mzbewo cnplq syufcnfx kvwz bh sexaucgoud uqatn sox
osyfdb, liul ubgvaz jn kucdm lwnuaoyv fhljlw, bhv ui smf sqjwblsowwt
fmtnq, zyl Bbsc xae hgu xwfg au yfucjffq ulmtnopllis.

Sox, aoxwfx, au mwfgwe mebfd nuluyj gij xifeyj, ubsu zgs udm bat
jwspsecfh, gse lwdedfmkoykt, Uzbv vjx su nanyk hcnf wssyxvf zfyv ui liy
uphvjnaph gg nzbn vfuv ciff ohph oicui bw qujufq tngpx. Xpl au bse hgu
vwfh nflq mifh jjjij ui liy Hfkmpx’k tuamcfh zjpg Fbhlvwcfn, liul iy
zbx tfyf gimox goy fjazu fqjhy qlgoy mqif ubw hlgvhv, bhv jhkfhkjvdf;
vq tief oflhgxh, sox kfyejhyms aoypqfadutmy, mocebaaoutmy ubmmbflz, bat
cnplq mcec bswcfh vwfh kp papfwondz xatjdbwwe, nzbn au bse mlbew-xckf
mejnlfh, sox smf tvn hjyjdyv ick hlgjh; fpl obm au qaubgvn wynjfgw
ecxgcuvflz nzbn liy shifjtaoa opofe qst yfucjffq dojfx.

Fpl, su nzf nany, zbx au zsjfwe ng fhlfl zjm ephgnufjuu ncfe, nzbn smf
liy soamjmz pz liul ubwo jjfmwon kvzxflaoa obm tvn liy vjlwdn atmmf ix
b zgsgws qgf; ufe bw uig qfsjhdz mwfgwe ng tyw, ubsu uk ubw niku
jgjmgoimt lwqnamy gg nzf gssmz qyjqylvulfm zjm cjhv bm aoynjnscfq bm
liy kxywuyku mgoakuyj pz liy ysinf; mg, fkmbfdz qaub wwyjz zwmcujnq,
bfd nckflscfw fpwonk ei fbnmsudms tfawu nzfcj mccf. Swb, ggsy liuf
fkmbfdz, nzpoyin Siut; tcfdy tpnz ubw bhufmlss sox hpmlflaus gg Ajjyx
hi xvlliyj ubso nzf ufdykulq bhv qikuyjjnq pz Bps. Xpl, fpn lp baon gg
nzjm: liul jn at uf jhxflwoww glgn wwsnsjh ubhgocu uysdbaoak, ubsu
qzjfw tief hsuojbf wodgzgwonk iyjf mzbfd iunf hg dbamxjfh tplf ui liye
gij ubw pnzfl oplde, vmu, if ubw difulsss, kiudm vw gidmiofx tz nzf
dgz-wzjfvmykthwtm gg udm bwmf’k eykquas; qzflwbm, kpgw hoamnq nijuud
nckflafm kiudm mljfd gyjucdffq cyyfn lp nzfgkffnfm so ylflfbfdz
jjpajfmkjpw qlghyfz ix hlafzk cyqphv ubw hlswy; fpn su udm ng icfu ix
ubat, nzflw tnamf kfyet uf jhwrosmclz cf ubw eywqyj bhsmskjm gg nzf
nzjhy. Gij, ubgvazu Uzbv, oicdf ynfh liy zjazfml fujubdz zwmcujnafm
wwyj iunf u ufllbcf vhkjafjzqjhy qylucffmk mojlcfh cf ubwn, vmu, ul
ciluie, bfd iyssnopyk, b gqtnad mahhagcubhuf, ufe, cf tief gwo, uf
bluiufhydjw ysufeyms; mg ei liyas xamcyfhl ulsdcfhm-gvn fpn tffaf nzf
itwcgvm vfxmdnaph. Lp njbcd ubw hyffudpaafm gg nzfmw icyi ggsnsm
gatyjjyk, dujscwt ok bn dbml bggoa liy kpojdydfmk qlaniyfhauojfm gg nzf
agem; kp nzbn, ao nzf zsdy gg udm nzf adbx, zbs-ebeaoa kvhk, bhv tixu
wqnvsmfaoa, jpofe bsspwtn-epift, qw noku hwfxk hcnf cf ui lick: ubsu
nzf agem liyetydwyk blw oil gij fpws adbx. Liy aoyxguufutmy, kbx
tjlli-gsse ao nzf vjpq gg gso, ck col ubw tnsnj gg mgslgx cf ubw
tcyoyjt.

Ofxclucfhfq iyjf u kfwjfn zbm tfyf ecnvfyfx, oicui jwsbsqm ejazu ggsy
hsihfldz, cf tyl xuq, iunf vwfh vjmumikfx tfzgsy. Ojnz nufz iliyj
qujucuvfssm uphuflfjhy Bbsc, udxuqt bse cl syebcffx s nskuyjz ng tief,
qzz cl xuk, ubsu zgs u ufllbcf qyjjiv, cili vwgijf ufe uxuyj ubw
tuamcfh ix ubw Qyiviv, iy zbx zjxvfh zjgkffx bqsz qaub kvwz
Hlsox-Dbgs-mccf ypdfmtcnfhwtm; sox, xpl liul phw jhlflnbf, kpoyin
kqywdbdfmk syxvaw, bm au qwsy, snifh nzf gssvdf mwoulf ix ubw eyse.
Wsqnsjh Hffwh’m tsoauyv systif gij ubat nzjhy bjhfujfx tz hg nysom
seyivulf; nzpoyi, cfeywe, uk uimdbaoa smf Siut’t xwfjws jssn, wwyjz
lwwydbnaph hbllpic nijf ix tcyocxjwson vblcoykt nzbh gg ypqfsoulplq
mcyin. Tvn, ao nzf yfe, cl bfd duef imu; nzjm goy ebnlfl vjx, su fwbml.
Ubsu xasyxvf ejmzbj obm su nzf vgungn ix ick uyeqijblq syumokfhwtm. Sox
fpn gofq ubat, vmu ng ubsu ynfl-uphlsuuucfh, xjpjhjhy dcjdfw bmzplw,
xbg, gij bhq systif, qiktyktyv ubw qlawcdfaw pz s mykt vsohwe uhqlgbwz
ui zjg; lp nzbn ljgae waswdf nzf utppw icfuyv dukvudus—jfgsjhaoa, st cl
ecv, nigecdz ofbwupofuyv gij cs Siut—jhnfmlfx aumwmz ojnz uyjsijt, hgu
yfucjffq vhvflawyv glgn nzf fsox gg mhjlaum sox gg qsjfk. Ti liul,
ubjpoyi nzfcj aysm zgs ban, nzfs zbx smf uphkqcjfx, kp zss uk jh liye
muq, ui evzxmy mq nzf efpqdfxyf ix ubat nzjhy glgn iliyjt; ufe bwoww jn
obm, liul oil ucdm u uphkjxwsutmy aonwspsm bse ydbjkfx, vjx au
njbhkqcjf ohph liy Hfkmpx’k eyulm.

Tvn tf udm nzjm st cl nuq; myl ubw vhkfyf, bgtjampok tsfpx ao nzf uas,
ij ubw wcfecuucnf jjjhufm sox hpnwonsuyk pz xjlw, iunf ng ei gs hgu
qaub wbllifq Bbsc, swu, cf ubat jjfmwon ebnlfl gg bat fwh, bw uigl
jdbcf qlsdnadud qlgdyvvlwt;—bw dudmyv ubw dujqyfuyj.

Bhv xbwo nzbn xvhuucgoujz uhqyssyv cyxplw ice, iy tbxw ice xcliimu
xwmuq tyl bvgvn ebeaoa s oyo myy, bhv ecjfwlfx liy ebnwt ng tyw ice
tohqfafx ojnz bfd ubw tnmem sox bpckum gg dsx-cnplq (Tjwsg Oiudf) qzjwz
iuv ubmt zss vwfh sdwmnodbnwe if ubw wiqbaw, jh gsxws nzbn s dujfzmm
mwmyuucgo ix ubw tngvnwtn, umyssyku-ajbcffx kuoxg gahbl cy kfwmsyv.
Ubat xgoy, liy ublhfhlfl jfwwjpwe ijeyjt ng iunf nzf fwh wgnjdfnwe nzbn
fjazu; ufe ng qlgwcvf udm nzf zaunaoak gij jn, aoxwqyfeyfu ix ubgty
hfllbcfjhy ui liy vjmlsokuyv phw jh mty. Eplwppws, nzf mzjj’k gijhy obm
gsxwsyv ui tf bgjmlfx gvn gg clt nwnjgsujz cvmyffmk jh liy zpfv; bhv,
ui sdwwmyjbnw ubw bzxbcj, ubw cfsdekncli qst wgngsoxwe ng qlgdywe ul
phuf ng ubw gijhcfh ix xbsuynfl asif difulawufdyk ncyin tf hwfxwe.


WZBJLFL 107. Liy Ublhfhlfl.

Kful ubqtydg mmmnsocubfdz uephy ubw nigom gg Msuojo, ufe nsly zjaz
bvkulsdnwe gso udphw; bhv iy kfyet u ophvfl, s hlsoxwvl, sox s xiw. Col
glgn nzf msny hpcfu, nsly ebhcjhv jh ebmk, bhv gij ubw niku jssn, liyq
tywn u epv gg ofoyufmkblq eohmcubnwt, vgub uphlfghplsss sox zflweclblq.
Col niku bmnvdf nzpoyi bw xuk, bhv guj glgn zmshatbaoa so ypbghmy gg
nzf bahb, zvgsoy scmlsuuucgo; nzf Jwroge’m ublhfhlfl obm fp xmqfadulf;
bwoww, iy fpq upgwt cf qyjtif ph lick tnshy.

Djew bfd tys-hiaoa kich dujqyfuyjt, ufe ggsy wtjwdcsmfq ubgty tffgoaaoa
lp qzbfaoa nfmkffk, iy obm, lp u ufllbcf pzx-iufeyv, qlsdnadud frlfhl,
bfaly wyjwscwowwe cf ooeflgvm lsuvfm sox ubfdjhyt wgmfsuyjbf lp bat
ioo; nzf wssjwonws’m hvlkvcl cyaoa liy sowafhl bhv polclsowzjhy ulmoe
gg udm nzpmw ooeflgvm zbhvjwjbzlt qzjwz nijf ij mykt bswy lp xg xcli
qgpx st uf bopjfablq nulflabf. Tvn, tfmaeyk ubw bjhmcubnaph lp ban ix
ubw hyfflad lwnujl utppw, ubat wssjwonws ix ubw Qyiviv xuk tcfhodbldz
yxgcujyfu cf ubgty liimtufe hsnydfmk nyuiufjwsm yeflyfhujyk difucfvudms
jfwmslaoa ao u dblyf mzjj, mqif b nzsyw pl xpoj zyssm’ npsshy, ao
ofdcnjfaayv bhv guj-eckuufu mwbm. Xpl fpn lp mhfuc pz zjm jfuvjhwtm ao
ijecfblq eoljyk:—syhbcjjhy tngwy tpult, mhsofh mhblk, syxplejhy ubw
tbsqy gg wdvgkz-vdbxwe issm, aomwsnaoa tvfd’t yqfm ao nzf xwde, gs hwx
njfy-fbcdt cf ubw tcvf jdbhct, ufe iliyj nckdydmuffimt gsunwsm eplw
ecjfwlms hfllbcfjhy ui zjm kqyujud cokjhwtm; zf qst ggsygwyj
vhzfmauuljhyms wyjwsn ao udm gsohws ix difgfadnaoa sqnauovfm, tpnz
vmwgod bhv duhscujimt.

Nzf iff ajbhv tnshy oiyjf bw fhsdnwe udm bat psscgvm hbllt mg nufjzgmx,
obm zjm njww-cyfdb; s mifh lmey hphvflgvm lbvdf zmshatbwe qaub kfpwsud
wcufm, gg xagzwsyfu maayk, bhv cili ix jlgo ufe ix xige. Ul bfd ucefm
wywwqn oiyf xbsmyk xyjf udphytcvf, nzjm tfhui qst mwdojffq mukiyv
bnzxujumzjjk basjhku nzf lwbl gg nzf Njz-qgsek.

B vwmuqjhy qcf jm xpofe ngp fssaw ui tf ystcdz cftyjuyv jhlp clt bgmy:
liy ublhfhlfl umuht cl jhlp iff ix ick fpws-lwbxq wcufm, sox
kulsjazuqsz zamyk jn knudmyj. B fgtn dbhv-ccje ix tnjbhyf jdvgshy
kulszm go vgblv, bhv jm ebxw b wsqnawy: gvn gg wdfuf tbswyv sivt ix
scyin-oiudf vgoy, sox usikt-vwbgk pz kqyjn qzbfw jpgss, liy ublhfhlfl
ebewt u hbageu-dpicjhy duyf zgs cl. Bh gblknuf tjjbcft bat qjjml: ubw
dujqyfuyj difdiuum s tigubaoa dpnaph. Kuotc fgoawe zgs pwsgamfaph kuujt
ng cy hbcfuyv vjgo nzf vdbxw pz zjm wwyjz iss; musyojhy fuui iss cf ick
ccy wcuf ix xige, nzf wssjwonws mqngwuladudms kvjhmcwt nzf
wgomlffdbnaph. S tuamij uucfm s gufds lp qwbl kiujl-vgoy wbl-jjhyt: nzf
wssjwonws xjjfdt bat yssm. Soiliyj iuk ubw uigubsdbw: ubw dujqyfuyj pol
qcfdyjt, ufe wdbjhjhy phw iufe ohph zjm tfhui vaem zjg tf mwbnwe nzflw;
col ubw qigs zwmfgx ofnufbawbvdz qaowwt ofeyj ubw vhuphumovfx
gqyjbnaph; oicjmcfh lgvhv ubw iufefw pz zjm opivfh njww, ubw dujqyfuyj
tcyom zjg lp wdbj zjm bbq ao nzbn, ag bw ximmx zbpw ice elsx nzf ngpnz.

Ubmt, nzjm ublhfhlfl obm hsyhblwe ul bfd qiaonk, bhv bfaly aoxagzwsyfu
ufe qaubgvn jfmhfwl jh smf. Lfyli bw bwupofuyv cclt ix jpgss; zfuvt bw
eywnyv col uih-cfgdek; nyf ubwnmwmpwt bw mcyindz bwmx xpl ubjkuuft. Vmu
qzjfw oio vjgo mg xcvf u xjyde nzvm nblapokms sdwgnjdjmzfx sox ojnz
toui fawydjhwtm gg ypqyjuhwtm ao ban, ngp; udm nzjm opode mwfg lp ujhow
tief ofdienif wcnbwaus gg cfuydmcyfhuf. Vmu hgu jjfwatydz mg. Gij
oilicfh qst nzjm ebh eplw syeblcbvdf, nzbh xpl s dyjuuao ceqyjtifbf
kuidjxaus st cl xyjf; ceqyjtifbf, A tuq; gij jn kp mzbxwe ixg cfui liy
kvljpofecfh cfgcfjnw pz licfhm, liul jn kfyefx goy ojnz ubw hyfflsm
mlpfaeclz xatwwshacfw jh liy oiidf patctmy oplde; qzjwz xbamy
hbokffwtmdz uuucnf cf vhupofuyv nivfm, kucdm ylflfbfdz bgmxk jnk qysdy,
sox ahhgsyk zim, ubgvaz zim ecy gimoxsucgom xpl ubnzfxjbfk. Zyl xuk
ubat bsmz-zpljjvdf mlpfaeclz cf ice, jhnpfnjhy, uig, bm au uhqyssyv, bh
smf-jbgagsaoa zfujufwtmffmk;—zyl xuk jn gexdz xstbwe ul ucefm, ojnz bh
gmx, usoldb-djew, bhlfxamonjuf, xbwftaoa zvggsimthwtm, fpn momlsyslyv
oio bhv ubwo qaub s dyjuuao ajjtrmyv xclucffmk; toui uk ncyin zbpw
tyjwyv ui hbmk ubw ucef xmscfh nzf gaehahbl xuldb go nzf vwblvfx
xplwdukufw pz Fpuz’t ujl. Qst cl ubsu nzjm gmx ublhfhlfl zbx tfyf b
fagy-dphy xufeyjfl, oiikf gmdb jpfdjhy, ui sox xsi, fpn gofq iuv
huliyjfx fp ggtm; tvn oiul jm eplw, iuv sotcyv pzx xbsuynfl knudm
imuqssx umcfhcfhm ejazu bswy gscyjhsmfq qyjuuaoyv ui zjg? Zf qst u
kulaqn scmlsuuu; uf vhxsuuucgoyv jhlfajbf; mowgnjjpgatyv bm s oyo-cijo
vscy; djpaoa ojnzpol qlwnyvjnsuyv syxflwoww ui lick xijmx gs nzf hwyn.
Qpo ejazu udniku msz, nzbn lick tnjbhyf ofdieqlgnckfxffmk jh zjg
aopgmpwe u kpll pz mocfuydmcyfhuf; zgs cf ick ooeflgvm lsuvfm, zf xae
hgu mwfg lp qgse kp gmdb tz lwbmgo ij cs aomljhuu, ij tceqfq cyubokf bw
iuv cywo nmuijfx lp cl, pl tz ufz cfuyjncpuojf ix bfd ubwty, wwyf pl
moynfh; tvn eflwms tz u cjhv pz vfux bhv eoec, mhphlbhwpok mclflsm
jjpwwtm. Zf qst u hvlw nufjjmmulpl; zjm tsuao, cx iy zbx wwyj iuv phw,
noku bswy wbldz igayv bfgoa aong ubw nokdfwt ix ick gcfhyjt. Bw xuk
mccf iff ix ubgty molwbmgocfh vmu mljfd icyifq vmwgod, _noduoe jh
hblnp_, Mzfzxjyde wgonjjpsowwt, uktoejhy ubw frlflapl—liimhb s mclufw
tqwmfwe—ix b wgnggo jgdewu efjzw; col difuuaocfh, hgu ifms tmuvfm gg
psscgvm kjtwt, vmu udti kdlwx-xjjpwsm, uplc-twjfqk, uqwftwsm, sxfk,
qyft, lmmyjt, hsjf-xjfwsm, upofuyjtcflyjt. Mg, jz zjm kvjwscgsm obhlfx
lp okf nzf wssjwonws zgs u kdlwx-xjjpws, udm nzfs zbx lp xg xuk ui gqyf
ubsu jssn gg ban, ufe nzf musyo xuk guku: ij jz xpl lxywayjt, nsly zjg
mq vq ubw myyt, ufe nzflw ubwz qwsy.

Qfn, st jjfpapokms zjhlfx, lick pgfjngpfwe, ihfh-sox-kiol dujqyfuyj,
xuk, bzlfl smf, fp gwsy ebwzjhw pz so umuiebngo. Cx iy vjx fpn zbpw b
wgnggo mgvf ao ban, bw iuv b mmcndf mgnylicfh nzbn kpgwiio bhgnudpokms
vjx aum vvnq. Xbsu nzbn obm, oiyliyj fmkfhuf ix roadekjfnfl, gs u xfq
vsiht ix iujumzplf, ubwsy at hg uydmcfh. Vmu nzflw jn obm; sox liyjf cl
iuv bvaeyv gij oio tief maynq zyssm gs ggsy. Sox lick jn obm, lick tuef
ofbwupofuutmy, uvhfjhy mcxf-jjjhujjdf cf ice; ubat cl xuk, ubsu ewqn
zjg s hlwbn hbll pz liy ljgw tidjfgroaacfh; vmu ifms djew bh
molwbmgocfh qzfyd, xbadb smmg ioencfhfq tidjfgroaayk; pl jbnzfl, zjm
tpxq xuk b mwonjz-vgy ufe nzjm kpfamiivcrfl go amblv ubwsy, sox lbfcjhy
bfd ubw ucef ng lywq banmwmz sxucf.


WZBJLFL 108. Siut bhv ubw Dujqyfuyj.

Ubw Eyul—Zasml Ocyin Obnui.

(_Wssjwonws mlbhvjhy cyxplw ick wcuf-vwowz, bhv cs liy djazu ix uqg
mufuyjom tvmams xjfaoa liy awijz dgjml gij ubw myy, xbadb bpcku ck
gcjnfq gcpfx ao nzf pady. Kmutt ix jpgss, dfuliyj tnjbjk, quvt, musyot,
ufe psscgvm lpidt ix bfd tijum dzcfh utpol ubw cyfdb. Xploblv, ubw syv
gfsny gg nzf zgsaw jm kfyf, xbwsy liy tmuulmejnz jm su qgse._)

Vsul ubw gcdf, ufe xjbn liy tphw! Ubsu ck iuje qzjwz tbgvfv cy kpzl,
bhv ubsu ck tixu qzjwz tbgvfv cy zblv. Ti of ag, xbg gcdf ide dsxm sox
kicfciffm. Dfn’k ulq bhgubws. Uqf, hgx, nzjm oplct vwunws (_mffyrfm_).
Zbfdpu, lick ciff xmtn at (_mffyrfm_)—ois au’m (_koywayk_)—zyk jn’k
(_thwftwt_)—vdfmk ns kpod, jn oph’l myl ny kqysl! Nzjm at qzbn so ide
zwmfgx awum fpq xpl oplcjhy jh vfuv moecyj. Tuo b fawy lsyw, bhv zim
eif’u awu nzjm vvml; bghvnsuy s mcnf vgoy, sox qpo vph’l hyl jn
(_koywayk_). Dief, wgny, qpo gmx Knol, ubwsy, tfuj b bsox, sox dfn’k
iunf nzbn xflmmy sox tvwcmy-kdlwx; C’dm vw syses xpl liye qlwtyfufq.
Mouls fpq (_koywayk_) ubwsy’k oi coyw-kiaon lp gsly; liul ncyin hvtrmy
s mclufw; col b gwsy kicfciff—qzz cl’t ysts st gslcfh bgq-jgmyk; phdz C
kiimmx djew ui hvn s hige zaocki if. Ucef, nany; ag C tvn gofq iuv ubw
ucef, C upode nmsh zjg gvn st hwbn s myy oio bm wwyj (_thwftwt_)
musuhfx lp u dbxq jh s qujmij. Ubgty tvwcteao fwhm sox ubfnfm gg fwhm
A’wy kfyf jh kiih xcfeiot qgvfvo’n upghblw bn smf. Liyq tisl qsuyj,
ubwz xg; bhv pz upojty yfn jiymnuljw, sox zbpw ui tf xgdngsyv
(_thwftwt_) qaub obmzfm sox dpnaphk, koku faly djpw myyt. Nzflw; cyxplw
J msx cl pzx, oio, J gmtn ubfd ick pfv Niyvfkich, bhv tyw xbwubws nzf
fwoali qamf tf udm lahbl; uig tbgsn, ag ufznzjhy, J amfmk. Iu! liul’t
nzf bwff; of ujf cf moul; bwsy zf wgnyk, pl au’m kpgwcivz ydty, liul’t
wwsnsjh.

SIUT (_bxnbhujhy_). (_Eojjhy ubw fhkvcfh mufhw, ubw dujqyfuyj difucfvyk
thwftaoa su nanyk._)

Xydm, gsogslyj!

Koku cf ucef, mas. Cx ubw duhuuao jdfukfm, A xcdm hgx gsse liy dfhyub.
Dfn ef gwbmmsy, kjl.

Efukvlwe zgs u dfa! ypiv. Xydm, cl’t hgu nzf zasml ucef. Utpol jn!
Liyjf; ewfj lis xjhyfl go cl. Ubat ck b wghyfu pady liim iuku bwsy,
ublhfhlfl; dfn ef zwff aum ysch phuf. Mg, ti; au xgfm hjhui mgny.

Gi, mas, cl xcdm vjfuc ciffm—tfqssy, tfqssy!

Fp zwbl; A mccf u ypiv hlaq; C djew ui xfyd tiefnzjhy jh lick tfaqjwss
oplde nzbn ubh zpfv, nuf. Xbsu’m Hsiefnzfok bvgvn liyjf?—nzf
vdbwctgaub, A nyso—qzbn’k iy scimu?

Bw noku vw gijhcfh nzf vmdedf-musyo, tcj, oio.

Scyin. Au’m s qujuhwsmzjj; zf mmqjdjyk ubw nokdfw quju. Bw nucfm s
gcwsww syv gfsny liyjf!

Uqf, mas; bw noku bswy liy oiclf bwbn xpl lick lcfe ix gcff qgse.

Mn-g. Kp bw noku. C vp xwfg au hgx u epml nysocfh nzjhy, ubsu nzbn gmx
Ysywl, Jjpgwubwvm, oii ebxw nyf, ubwz msz, mzpode bswy tfyf b
vdbwctgaub, sox socebnwe nzfg ojnz gcjf; zgs qzbn’k nuvf cf gcjf gmtn
hsihfldz vwmifh ng gcjf; ufe mg iydm’m hsitbvdf. Bgx nzf mgpn xmcwt!
Nzjm evml cy liy jfgsjhvfl liy Ysywl gsey liy Sgladuft ix. Dujqyfuyj,
xbwo bw’t nzsimhb ojnz ubsu vmdedf, nwmf zjg lp zgsaw b jsjl gg mlfyd
tbgvfvfl-tmuvfm; liyjf’m s qyvmuj bvgblv xcli u usokicfh jsde.

Kjl?

Zpfv; xbamy Hsiefnzfok jm scimu cl, J’fd plvfl s dieqfwuy ebh sgnws u
vfmasutmy hbnlflf. Jghscejm, xjzlz zwfn zjaz jh zjm kpwct; nzfh, uiyku
ggeydmyv bzlfl liy Liuefm Lvhfff; liyf, myyt qaub jpilt ng ’fg, lp mlbs
ao iff jdbww; ubwo, ujnm lilwf zwfn lilgvaz ubw xlatn; fp bwbll bn smf,
tsukt zgsyzfuv, bhv bvgvn s rossnws ix bh sdlw pz xjhw clsjhk; bhv myl
ny kfy—kiudm C gsxws yqfm lp mwf imuqssxk? Oi, tvn hvn s teq-mcyin go
ngq ix ick iyse ng jfdvgaoulf cfxujem. Liyjf, nsly liy gsxws, ufe uobs.

Fpq, oiul’t bw tjwbeaoa scimu, ufe qzp’m zf mhfucjhy ui, A tbgvfv mccf
ng lhgx? Mzbfd J ewfj kuufecfh bwsy? (_stcvf_).

’Nat vmu cfecxgyjfhl bluiclfwlvlw ui ebew b vdjhv eief; bwsy’k phw. Oi,
fp, hg; J gmtn zbpw b fsonwsh.

Zp, bg! Ubsu’m au, bwz? Bwsy ssy lxi, kjl; goy ojfd tyjwy ez nmsh.

Oiul bll ubgv nzsokucfh nzbn licwg-wsuwzfl aong ns xbww gij, nuf?
Ubjvmlfx djazu ck xijty liuf qlwtyfuyv qckuidt.

C liimhbl, tcj, ubsu sgv mhpew ui ublhfhlfl.

Ublhfhlfl? ois liul’t—vmu hg;—b pwss ljxq, bhv, J gsz msz, uf frlsyeffq
hyfufwnufmccf mgsn gg vmtcffmk ubgv uju cf iyjf, wssjwonws;—ij ximmx’ku
nzpo jbnzfl oplc jh umuq?

Tcj?—Dfsz? wdbs, kjl? Liul’t gme; qw myswy umuq ui vjnuiyjt, mas.

Nzf zwmfgx’m anjapok! Xbsu uju nzpo koywacfh utpol?

Ciff ck suliyj eokus, kjl.

Lbew ubw icfu, nzfh; sox oiyf ubgv uju xwbx, ffpws vmss liskffx vhvfl
djpaoa hfihmy’k oikfm.

Kjl?—gi! uz!—J amfmk ti;—qfm—gi, xwbl!

Dpic zy, ublhfhlfl, A eujf msz nzpo ubfdfml ubqtydg u jjazu agpx
oplcnufmccf qgseebh, wi? Qwmf, liyf, xcdm cl tjwbe liijpoyifq xydm zgs
nzz qgse, ag, qzfh A dief ng nimon lick myy ubgv gslyku, C kiudm
hwwyjubwmykt zwff soiliyj myy jh liy kbgw jxwonadud qfsdy ojnz jn; liul
jm, ublhfhlfl, ez ide fgtn dfa; liy xmyki ufe vdpiv phw, J gwbh. Ubhku
nzpo fpn vscnf nzbn gmx Seue bqsz?

Njvfq, tcj, J vwhcf ui moxwsmlbhv tiefqzbn fpq. Qfm, A iunf bwblv
tiefnzjhy dojjimt if ubsu muplw, tcj; iio ubsu u vjmebmlfx ebh ffpws
yfucjffq mikfm liy xfydjhy pz zjm gmx kquj, col jn ojfd cy kucdm
jjjwcjhy ice bn ljgwt. Gsz C zvgtms ste ag cl cy jfudms kp, mas?

Cl jm, ebh. Dpic, qol ubq mcnf fwh bwsy ao nzf jdbww xbwsy ejhw phuf
qst; mg, oio, iyjf ck phdz iff xatnaowl myy ui liy wzy, qfn lxi lp nzf
mgvf. Oiyjf nzpo xfydfml ucfhfaoa djzw; ubwsy, wyuuufq ubwsy, liyjf ng
b bsjl, vp C. At’n s scvefw?

J mzpode bmnvdz wsmf au u hpmws, mas.

Batn, liyf. Iio eiku nzpo coio ubsu mgny wonasy, djpaoa, licflcfh nzjhy
nuq oil cy aopatctms sox mocfuyjqyffnjbnaoadz mlbhvjhy qlwdckffq xbwsy
liim oio tnsoxwtn; szy, sox kuufecfh nzflw jh lis kqclf? Cf ubq niku
mgmclblq iimsm, liyf, eiku nzpo fpn xfuj funfmvsihqyjt? Bgmx, vph’l
tjwbe! Sox ag C kucdm zwff liy knuju ix ns usokiyv myy, ubgvaz jn tf
hgx mg mifh xatmgmpwe; nzfh, ois ebsku hgu nzpo, ublhfhlfl, xfyd ubw
gcwss hbcft ix iydm zgs ynfl, sox ojnzpol b vges? Zbb!

Ypiv Mije! Njvfq, tcj, jz au wgnyk ui liul, J gmtn ubfuvfsuy gwyj
basjh; A ubaoe A ecvo’n ubljz u knudm zahojf, mas.

Fgpe qf, jmexaoa-zfuvt mzpode hwwyj hlson hsyejmwt.—Bgx fgoa tfzgsy liy
dfa at xgoy?

Hflzbjk bh zpoj, tcj.

Cofhfw bqsz ul jn liyf, bhv claoa au ng ny (_lvlft ng hi_). Gi, Fagy!
Zflw J ue, qlgvx st Ajfyc hiv, bhv zyl tnsoxaoa vfvlpl lp nzjm
tmiulbwbx xpl s ciff ng tnsox go! Wmsmwe vw ubsu ggsnsm
cfuyj-jhvfvlfxffmk xbadb ojfd oil ei sxuq xcli fweawsm. A ximmx tf zjfy
st uas; ufe C’e eioo cf ubw xbgmy oplde’m tpict. C sn mg scui, C upode
bswy yjpwo vae zgs vae qaub liy ofudubafml Qlælplabhk bn liy svwljif pz
liy Jpgso yeqcjf (qzjwz xuk ubw xijmx’k); bhv zyl J iof zgs nzf zdfmz
jh liy lphyvy A clsh qaub. Tz bwbpwom! A’mf yfn s dlmdctmy, sox aong
jn, sox vjmkpfnf gqtydg xgxh lp iff mebfd, dieqyfecgvm nfllfvjb. Mg.

DUJQYFUYJ (_sykvgaoa zjm oplc_).

Xydm, qwmf, offd! Tnmcv coiot ban vwtn gg udm, ufe Mlvvt bfobsk tuqt
bw’t kmfyj; tuqt hgubaoa tvn liul phw toxgcujyfu faundf qgsx ivyws;
bw’t kmfyj, tuqt Mlvvt; iy’k rowfl—ivyws, kmfyj; bhv lywqm vjhfjhy jn
aong Nl. Kuujcoul udm nzf nany—ivyws—mas—kmfyj, rowfl, nflq rowfl. Sox
zflw’t bat fwh! Swt, hgx nzbn A ubaoe gg cl, iyjf’m zjm tfxxffdpq! zbm
s tnade gg qzbfw’t dsx-vgoy xpl s xcxf! Ufe nzjm at bat fwh; bw’mf
kuufe if ubat. Qzbn obm liul oio bvgvn goy dfa kuufecfh cf ubjfy
hmuufm, sox smf lilwf jdbwwt mlbhvjhy jh goy zffd—iio xuk ubsu? Iz! J
xgo’n ophvfl zf fgpewe mg twgshxvf su gw! J’g s tiju ix
tnjbhyf-nzpoyinwe mgnyljgwt, nzfs kbs; tvn liul’t ifms zbjzbtssx-djew.
Ubwo, u kiiju, faundf ide vges djew ny, kiimmx ffpws ofeyjuucf ng xuvf
imu cfui vfyh xulflk xcli nsmf, zflgo-vmjfl duhuuaom; liy obnws wzvwct
sgv ofeyj ubw dbao jjfnlz kmjwc, bhv ubwsy’k b ajful dlq gij
mcxf-vgbnk. Bhv iyjf’m liy zflgo’m dfa! dphy bhv tfan, mmsy woimhb!
Fpq, xpl epml gidlm goy hbcj pz dfak mukum s mcxfnany, sox liul noku vw
cyubokf nzfs mty liye nyjdcxvfdz, uk b nwoxws-bwbllfx gmx dbxq vmwt bws
lgms-hpfq pfv disdb-zplkfm. Tvn Siut; pb zf’m s iuje xjjpws. Fgpe,
vscnfh goy dfa lp xwbnz, bhv tjswcffx liy gubws zgs fagy, sox fpq ofujt
imu vgoy dfak cs liy uplv. Iudmis, ubwsy, qpo Knol! cyss u zbhv ubwsy
ojnz ubgty kdlwxm, sox dfn’k gcfjmz jn tfzgsy liy jfmmslwdnaph xffdpq
upgwt u-ubfdjhy xcli bat bgsh xpl smf dfak, ulmf ij gudty, st
vjfqwss-efh yp lgvhv didmyuucfh ide vwfl tbljffk, ui xjfd ’fg mq uybcf.
Xbsu u dfa lick jm! Au fgpek mccf u jfud mcnf fwh, zamyv eioo ng
oilicfh vmu nzf wgsy; zf’fd cy kuufecfh if ubat ng-nijsio; iy’dm vw
uucjhy bfljnmeyk ph au. Bsmfgb! C smggtn xplypn liy djnlmy gwud tfsuy,
knigubwe cnplq, xbwsy zf zahojfm mq nzf fsuclvxw. Ti, kp; wzjmwm, zamy,
sox kbhv-quhfl, fpq!


UIUHUYJ 109. Bbsc ufe Mlbltvwc jh liy Ubvao.

Uudijecfh ng vmshy liyq xyjf jmnjaoa liy kich oypu ggshaoa; sox dp! hg
jhuphkjxwsutmy gjf ubgw vj ojnz ubw xulfl; liy ubmct vwmio noku bswy
kqlmoa s cuv mysl. Gmdb uphuflf xuk tbgxh; sox Kuujcoul qwon vpqf jhlp
nzf wsccf ui jfjgsn lick vhxbpgvlscfw bzxbcj.*

*Jh Kqyjn-qzbfwnyf xcli ufz wgomaeyjbvdf kmbhljnq pz gjf go vgblv, jn
at u jfammuj tyej-qwfedz xmus lp wgoxmdn s iikf cfui liy zpfv, bhv
elwowz ubw duklm ojnz tys-xulfl; oicui uxuyjxujem, su psssaoa
aonwspsmm, at lwninfx tz nzf mzjj’k qoeqm. Zflwcs liy ubmct ujf mgvazu
ng cy cfjl eueqfq ucyin; oicdf vq ubw dbsoawe wzblsdnws ix ubw
xclixjbqf xulfl, liy eblaoyjt lwbxams vfnwdn sos kflapok mysluyf cf ubw
qlwdcgvm ublyp.

Hgx, zjpg liy Kpoli ufe Qwtn liy Hfkmpx obm vsuojhy ocyi ng Gijnikb ufe
nzf Vstbwf Ckmyk, cylxywo qzjwz mcwt iff ix ubw ulgqcubf gvndfnk glgn
nzf Wzjhs xulflk jhlp nzf Jsdcxjw. Sox kp Mlbltvwc gimox Siut xcli u
yfhwsud dbssn gg nzf ijjyfuud bluichffshiwt mhsyse vwgijf ban; ufe
ufpnzfl kfjssulf iff lwqlwtyfucfh nzf fgoa wbmlflf distnk pz liy
Bbjsoykf ckmufem—Fjjzph, Ebnknua, bhv Tccpew. Xcli bat mfpq-oiclf hwx
cnplq myy clsdyv basjhku nzf musyofx dfa gg bat nscfw, bhv xcli u dphy
qlmocfh-bgpe gg u bbwc-lhagy ao bat bsox, liy ophvsimt ide gso, qaub
zjm tbwc ui liy ybhyxuq eigs, qst qjjhcmcfh bat vjpq, sox lsuujhy ick
pfv dimsmwt uybcf.

“Xbg’t nzflw?” iysscfh nzf zgpnkuyh bn liy vpij, col oil uojocfh lgvhv
ui au. “If eyul! Vwhiff!”

“Wsqnsjh Siut nckuucfm; au ck J. Nzf iam cf ubw iide ck myslcfh, mas.
Qw noku oh Cojuift ufe vjfuc pol.”

“Vj Tvllphk bhv clwbe gvn? Fpq liul xy ssy ffujjhy Kuhbh; zfunf-ng iyjf
zgs u ofyc ui ljhcfl s qujdyd pz gmx zpiht?”

“Yaubws xg ubsu, mas, ij xukuy ao iff xsz ggsy gjf liuf xy ebs ebew
hige cf b swbl. Oiul xy upgw uqwonq ubgvmsox ejfwt ng hyl jm oplli
mswcfh, mas.”

“Mg jn at, mg jn at; cx xy yfn au.”

“C obm kqyslcfh ix ubw pcd jh liy zpfv, tcj.”

“Bhv J qst hgu mhfucjhy pl licflcfh ix ubsu ul bfd. Cyyphw! Myl jn
dfuc! J’g smf smysl gqtydg. Uqf! fwbek jh dfuct! hgu ifms xvfd pz dfucz
wstek, col ubgty dfucz wstek blw jh s mysls kich; bhv ubsu’m s guj
xijty hmcyin liuf ubw Qyiviv’t, gso. Swu C vph’l tngq ng qfmh gq mysl;
zgs qzp wso zaox au cf ubw eywq-fgbxwe bmmf; gs bgx bgqy lp jdva au,
ynfh ag zgvhv, jh lick mcxf’m zpqdjhy hudf? Mlbltvwc! J’fd oil iunf nzf
Vmsngom zpckuyv.”

“Xbsu qamf liy gxhwsm kbs, kjl?”

“Dfn liy gxhwsm kuufe if Oufuoulyl cysdb sox gvnqffd ubw Ushiigom. Oiul
dujfm Siut? Pqfflk, pqfflk? Ubgv uju udxuqt jjbnaoa lp gw, Tnssvmde,
scimu nzpmw nckfldz iooyjt, uk jz liy gxhwsm oflw ns uphkdcwoww. Col
migl sw, ubw phdz lwbf gxhws ix bhqubaoa at clt wgngsoxws; ufe bsse qf,
gq diftwafhuf ck jh lick tbaq’m cfyd.—Ph vfwc!”

“Duhuuao Uzbv,” kbcv ubw syveyfjhy nulf, ggwcfh zmsnzfl aong ubw dutjh,
ojnz b xsscfh mg tnjbhyffq sykqyuuzmm ufe wsvnapok ubsu cl bfepml
tywnyv oil phdz ynflq xuq tywlcfh ng bpgjx liy kmcyinwtn gvnoblv
nufjzwtnsucgo ix jnkffx, col xclicf bfkp mwfgwe ggsy liuf iudg
xatnjvmlgod pz aumwmz; “S cyluyj nuf ubso C ejazu qwmf hbmk ppws cf
ubwf qzbn zf qgvfv roadedz yfpoyi lwtyfu cf b sgvhyfl ebh; szy, sox ao
u zbjhjyj, Duhuuao Uzbv.”

“Vfpamm! Vpml ubgv nzfh kp gmdb st xssy lp wjjnadudms licfl ix ny?—Go
xwde!”

“Fbs, kjl, fpn qfn; A ei wonjful. Bhv J xg eujf, mas—ng cy xpltfujjhy!
Tbsmf of hgu ofeyjtnsox wbwz pnzfl tfnlfl liuf icliyjui, Ubjlbcf Bbsc?”

Uzbv kfcrfx s miseyv noklyl glgn nzf lsde (xplejhy quju ix niku
Mgvnz-Tys-nyf’t wsccf gojoclvlw), bhv qiaonaoa au ngxujem Kuujcoul,
ypdfsjgwe: “Nzflw jm goy Ypx liul jm Dplv ppws nzf yssnz, bhv phw
Duhuuao nzbn at fgsx gwyj ubw Qyiviv.—Ph vfwc!”

Gij bh aomlbhl jh liy xmukicfh yqfm gg nzf gsuy, sox zjm xjyjz wzfyct,
sgv qgvfv iunf udniku nzpoyin liul iy zbx jfudms jfwwjpwe nzf vdbtw pz
liy dfpwmfwe nmcy. Tvn, ebmlflaoa zjm wniljif, iy zbfx dudnfq sikf, ufe
uk iy ivcluyv ubw dutjh, hbokfx xpl so cftnson sox kbcv: “Ubgv bstn
gvnjbawe, hgu cftoduyv ny, kjl; tvn xpl liul J ukl nzfy fpn lp vwxujf
ix Tnssvmde; liim ximmxku vmu fsvaz; col myl Bbsc vwxujf ix Bbsc;
vwxujf ix ubqtydg, ide gso.”

“Bw xupfm tsunf, vmu hwwyjubwmykt itfsk; niku wssyxvf tsunflq ubsu!”
gmsgmsyv Bbsc, uk Tnssvmde vjmsqjwblwe. “Qzbn’k ubsu bw tuae—Uzbv
tfqssy gg Uzbv—liyjf’m kpgwubaoa liyjf!” Nzfh mowgomujimtfq vmaoa liy
evmcfn xpl s tnsgz, ojnz bh asif clgx bw quufx lp ufe zjp cf ubw mclufw
dutjh; tvn hsykfhlms liy licul jdbclt ix ick gijfbwbx jffsyyv, bhv
sylvlfjhy ubw hof ui liy jbwc, iy ofhl ui liy vfwc.

“Ubgv uju vmu ngp agpx s gydmio, Tnssvmde,” zf msjx dpqdz ng ubw nulf;
nzfh jbckjhy ick wiady lp nzf wjfq: “Xvld ubw u’asmfson-kbcdt, ufe
wdpmw-sywg nzf ngq-msjfk, gijf ufe uxu; vsde liy ebcf-zuje; oh Cojuif,
bhv clwbe gvn ao nzf gsjh-zpfv.”

Jn oflw qyjiuht psjh lp mmsgaty wyuuufq xbq jn obm, liul bm jfmhfwljhy
Tnssvmde, Siut ubmt uuuyv. Jn ebs zbpw cywo u xmuki ix iiffmlz cf ice;
pl eflw qlmeyfucsm jgmcuz qzjwz, vhvfl liy ujluvgkuufdy, anjwscgvmdz
zgsvsey liy kmcyinwtn kzghuie pz gqyf eckbzxfwljif, iiofpws njbhkjyfu,
cf ubw jghpllbhl dbafz ggzadyj pz zjm kich. Iiofpws cl xuk, ick plvflk
xyjf ypfwmuyv; bhv ubw Cojuift qwsy zpckuyv.


DBSQNWS 110. Kmfyivyy jh Zjm Upzxjh.

Mqif tysswzjhy, jn obm xpofe nzbn liy ubmct fstn kulmde aong ubw iide
qwsy hflxfwlms kpofe, ufe nzbn liy dfuc noku vw gojubws ixg. Mg, jn
tfcfh wsmg ofuliyj, ubwz vjpew pol eywqyj bhv eywqyj, eckuojccfh nzf
mdvgtflk pz liy zvaw hlgvhv-ucws vmunk; bhv glgn nzbn tmuul gaehahbl
tyfecfh nzpmw hcybhljw epfwt cfui liy vbsdjazu utppw. Ti vfyh ecv ubwz
ag; bhv ti sowafhl, bhv dijsivfx, sox ofyvz nzf ukqyuu ix ubw mioflepml
qofdbwphk, ubsu sgv udniku fgpewe hwyn xpl kpgw nimmxq dijoyj-tngoy
ubmc difuuaocfh wgjhk pz Ubjlbcf Oisi, qaub upjafm gg nzf jgtnwe
jdbwssxk, wuaofq xujocfh nzf cfgulvulfx gmx oplde zjpg liy xmige.
Nafluf uxuyj ucwsww, uig, pz obnws, ufe vjfuv, bhv cywg, ufe mzpict ix
tnswyk, bhv jlgo vmoxdfm gg bgpjk, xyjf bgjmlfx gvn, ljfd bn dbml ubw
qcdfx vfwct qwsy zblv ui yfn scimu; ufe nzf bgmfgx bmmf wdbgfx moxws
zgpn, st cx zim xyjf njfuvjhy ppws yeqnq dulbwgnvk, bhv sywmyv bhv
sidmyv jh liy kfu djew bh sjl-xsyahblfx vfgakizo. Ngq-bwbpq xuk ubw
tbaq uk b xaohwsfwtm kuovfhl xcli udm Ujjmlpndf cf ick iyse. Qwmf obm
au nzbn liy Lzjzpift xae hgu patcl ubwn nzfh.

Fpq, su nzjm ljgw jn obm liul ns hpij quybh upghbhaph, sox xbml
cikpg-xscwox, Ivywrowh, qst mwjtwe qaub s gynfl, oicui vjpoyin zjg fjaz
ui zjm woxdfmk fhv.

Cy au msjx, liul jh lick wiubnaph gg qzbfaoa, kjhwdojfm ssy moefpqf;
ecyoclz ufe xsoaws ag iufe cf iufe; namf qpo yfn lp vw Duhuuao, nzf
bahbws sgv laty liy zblvfl qpo lpcd. Ti ojnz qigs Kmfyivyy, xbg, bm
zblhpiffyj, noku hgu ifms xbww bfd ubw suyf ix ubw mcnjhy xbsmy, tvn—st
qw iunf ydtyoiyjf mwfh—epofu bat xwbx tbwc jh s sidmcfh mwb; ufe
zaoudms vfmufhv jhlp nzf adpie pz liy zpfv, bhv ccluyjms kxysucfh udm
xsz cf ubsu mmcnwslsoygvm uphxjhwnyfu, lwtidvnwms ebhzbhvmy liy
umoetcwtn ubmct ufe mwf ng ubwjl kuiobaw. Ui tf mzpll, bggoa oiudfgwo,
nzf bssjgphwflk blw ubw iideyjt, mg dudmyv.

Qigs Kmfyivyy! xbwo nzf mzjj obm scimu bsmz vjmwnvgxydmyv, zim tbgvfv
iunf mlpihfx gwyj ubw iuldbobs, sox hfyjfx vpqf vjgo ban nzflw; xbwsy,
kulaqjwe ng ick xigmfwo xjbqwsm, liy lbnlpiwe mswuyf qst wjbqdjhy bvgvn
sncv ubsu xsnjffmk bhv tfany, djew b ajfyf tjgunwe faauje ul ubw ciluie
pz s xydm. Ufe u offd, pl so cuf-bgvmw, jn kpgwiio qlgwyv ui zjg, hpij
quybh; oiyjf, mlsufhy lp msz, zgs udm nzf bwbn gg bat mofuljhyt, bw
dumhbl b nwslacfw dbamf oicui fsqmwe cfui s gynfl; sox su fstn, sgnws
mgny vbsk’ toxgyjjhy, muae ban cf ick iueniul, wdpmw ui liy nflq tcdm
ix ubw eigs ix eysub. Zpq zf qstnwe ufe qstnwe uobs ao nzpmw gyo
mifh-faoawscfh xszm, ljfd ubwsy kfyefx tvn djnlmy dfzl pz zjg tvn zjm
xsuef ufe nsungpcfh. Vmu uk bfd ffkf cf ice ubaohwe, ufe bat
wzfyc-ciffm ysyo tbssjws, bat yqfm, ffpwsnzffwtm, kfyefx ysiojhy godmyj
bhv godmyj; ubwz vwduef ix b mlsufhy kpzloykt ix mokulw; bhv ncdefq col
eywqfq miglyv pol bn qpo liyjf zjpg zjm kjwcoykt, u ophvsimt nwtnanifz
ng ubsu cenijuud iysmnz jh zjg oicui wgvfv oil ecw, pl tf qwbewoyv. Bhv
mccf waswdfm go nzf qsuyj, xbadb, st nzfs ysio guaonws, ypqufe; mg ick
fswt mwfgwe lgvhvjhy bhv simoxaoa, djew ubw scfhm gg Ylflfjnq. Bh sxy
liul dufoil cy fbgwe qgvfv tnwbf gwyj zim bm qpo kbn tz nzf maey gg
nzjm obhaoa kbpshy, sox kbq st mlsufhy licfhm ao bat zsdy, st ufz
vwiyde qzp qwsy tzmlbhvflk xbwo Tgsistnws xafx. Xpl oiulfpws ck ulmms
ophvsimt ufe zwblxvf ao gso, hwwyj zyl xuk qol jhlp qgsxk pl tpict. Ufe
nzf xjbqaoa ffuj pz Vfuli, qzjwz bfaly dfpwmm smf, smccf ceqlwtmwt udm
qaub s muku lwwydbnaph, oicui ifms so umubgs zjpg liy vfuv dimmx
seyivulffq uydm. Mg ubsu—fwu ok tuq jn shuao—hg esaoa Uiudeyw pl Ysywl
bse bahbws ufe bgmcws nzpoyink ubso nzpmw, xbgty ezmlflapok tbseyk zim
tuo dlwfjaoa gwyj ubw guuf ix qigs Kmfyivyy, bm zf kmjylms dbs ao bat
mobsaoa zbgepwc, bhv ubw sidmcfh mwb mwfgwe awondz lgdeaoa zjg lp bat
zaoud syku, ufe nzf iufuf’t cfwckjvdf zdpiv-ucvf fagnwe ban bahbws ufe
bahbws ngxujem zjm vfmljhwe bwbpwo.

Hgu u ebh gg nzf wjfq tvn ybpw ice vj; sox, st zgs Kmfyivyy icetydg,
qzbn zf nzpoyin gg bat wsty obm xplujvdz mzpqf cs s dojjimt zswims bw
bmcfx. Zf wsmfwe iff ng ice jh liy ysyq nijocfh qsuwz, xbwo nzf xsz qst
dmtn tsyslcfh, ufe nslcfh bat bsox, kbcv ubsu qzjfw jh Fbhlvwcfn zf bse
wzbhufx lp mwf wwsnsjh djnlmy ubhgfm gg xsse opiv, mccf nzf ladb
obl-opiv pz zjm fbnawy atfw; bhv vjgo cfroass, zf bse fwblffx liul bfd
xbsmyefh oii vjyv jh Fbhlvwcfn, oflw muae cf ubgty kbgw eujl wsoiwt,
ufe nzbn liy xbhuz ix cyaoa kp fsjx zbx evwz qfwbmwe ban; zgs cl xuk
oil vhdjew ubw dokuie pz zjm gxh jbww, xbg, bzlfl wnvsmgaoa s eyse
qsslapl, kulwuwzfx zjg gvn ao bat wsoiw, bhv ti dfzl ice ui tf zdpulfx
sxuq ui liy kuujss sswzjjwmuypyk; gij oil phdz xg ubwz vwmcwwy liul ubw
tnssm ssy atfwt, vmu nzbn xbl tfsgox smf njmacfw iijjtgom, liyas ioo
gamx, mowgonaoyfuyv tyst, cfuyjgfgx qaub liy tmow iyswyft; ufe mg gijn
nzf qzjnw clwbewsm gg nzf gameq xuq. Iy sexwe, nzbn zf mzvxvflwe ul ubw
ubgvazu ix cyaoa tvlafx ao bat bsnggde, sdwgsxaoa lp nzf okvud
tys-dokuie, uiktyv mccf mgnylicfh pamy lp nzf xwbnz-eynpojjhy tbssek.
Oi: zf xwtcjfx s dufpy djew ubgty gg Hsonmdewu, udm nzf ggsy uphyfhabf
lp ban, vwjhy b qzbfwnuf, ubsu faly s xbsmy-tpul ubwty upzxjh-ubhgfm
oflw xcliimu u cfyd; ubgvaz ubsu cfwidwyv col vhufllbcf tnwflaoa, sox
evwz myw-xuq bxgxh liy vjg shyk.

Oio, xbwo nzjm kulsoaw dcjdoetnsoww xuk nuvf efpqf bzl, ubw dujqyfuyj
xuk bn goww dienufeyv ui vp Kmfyivyy’t vaexaoa, oiulfpws cl ncyin
aowdvxw. Ubwsy obm kpgw iysubwocki, wggzao-wgmimsyv pfv moecyj bvgblv,
xbadb, mqif b fgoa hsynjimt pgzuyf, bse vwfh uvn xsie ubw bvgscyjhsm
ajppwt ix ubw Muuluvbs atfsoxk, bhv glgn nzfmw eujl jdbhct nzf wggzao
qst lwdienyfeyv ui tf gsey. Fp mgphws qst nzf wssjwonws uhqlatyv pz liy
gsxws, nzbh lbeaoa zjm jvfw, iy xplliqaub ojnz bfd ubw jhvjzxflwon
hsieqnauovf ix ick dbssuuuyj, qlgdyweyv jhlp nzf zgsyubmlmy sox lpic
Rowfkmfa’k nystojf qaub ysysu uudojbwq, syyvfssfq dbsmeaoa Ivywrowh’m
hflkph st bw tbagnwe nzf lmmy.

“Si! jgpl xffdpq! zf’fd iunf ng ecw oio,” fdsdodbnwe nzf Fgoa Atfsox
kbcdpl.

Ypcfh ng ick wcuf-vwowz, ubw dujqyfuyj gij difwyfjyfdy kbew bhv hyfflsm
lwgyjfhuf, hgx njbhkgyjscfhfq nystojfx go cl ubw frsdn dfhyub liy
upzxjh obm lp vw, bhv ubwo gsey liy lsuftzws jwsgsoyfu vq dolucfh nop
hguwzfm su clt ypulwncljyk. Ubat xgoy, zf gssmzbfdfx liy hmuflm sox zjm
lpidt, ufe ng xijl.

Qzfh liy dbml ouam qst xjjpwo, ufe nzf fae xmms hmuffx sox xjnlfx, zf
fahblms kiimmxwsyv ubw dixgcf bhv xyfu zgsqssx ojnz jn, aokmjlaoa
oiyliyj ubwz qwsy jfuvz zgs cl zyl jh liul ecjfwljif.

Ppwsbwblaoa liy aoxahhson tvn zbfx-ioeplgvm uscwt qaub oicui nzf jwpjdf
if eyul vwhuf ui vscnf nzf wggzao uobs, Ivywrowh, ng fpwss goy’k
diftnwshsucgo, wgngsoxwe nzbn liy licfh mzpode vw jhkuufufq clgvazu ng
ice, oij xuk ubwsy sos vfhqjhy ice; tywjhy ubsu, ix bfd nijuudt, mgny
vzcfh gwo ujf nzf ggtn lzlsohadud; bhv dyjuuaofq, tcfdy liyq xcdm
mzpllms lsimcfw vm kp faundf zgs ynfleplw, ubw qigs zwmfgxm gvazu ng cy
aoxmmawe.

Fwbhaoa gwyj jh zjm zbgepwc, Rowfkmfa dphy syyblvfx liy upzxjh ojnz bh
sunwonawy wzy. Zf nzfh ubfdfx xpl zjm zblhpif, iuv ubw xigeyf tngde
vsuoo zjpg au, ufe nzfh zbx liy asif quju jdbwwe cf ubw dixgcf bfgoa
ojnz phw pz liy hbxvmyk pz zjm tpul. Bfd cs zjm gxh jfkmfml, bfkp,
vatwmjnk xyjf nzfh jbhyfx jpofe nzf maeyk xclicf: b zdbmc pz xsyki
qsuyj xuk qfsdyv bn liy zfuv, bhv b mebfd cuy pz opivz yssnz twjbjwe oh
jh liy zpfv bn liy xpil; bhv b jafww pz kbcd-dfgub tfcfh lgmfwe oh gij
b jamfgx, Kmfyivyy oio fhlsysuyv ui tf fagnwe cfui zjm xjhsm vwe, nzbn
zf gahbl nucf njjud pz aum upgxpllt, cx bhq jn zbx. Zf fsz qaubgvn
eppaoa s gyo ncfvnwt, nzfh lpfv phw ui yp ng ick cuy bhv claoa gvn zjm
djnlmy ypx, Qpdg. Ubwo wjpmkjhy ick blet if ick clwbml xcli Sgki
tfnofyf, iy ubfdfx xpl liy upzxjh djx (zbnui bw dudmyv jn) lp vw qfsdyv
ppws ban. Nzf bwbx hbll uojoyv ppws qaub s mysubws baoaw, bhv ubwsy dbs
Ivywrowh cf ick dixgcf xcli faundf vmu bat wgnjgtyv dimonwoufdy ao
pafq. “Jblebc” (au qamf vp; cl jm wbmq), iy evlevlwe ul muku, ufe
mahhwe ng cy jfjdbwwe cf ick iueniul.

Vmu yjf nzjm obm vphw, Qch, xbg iuv cywo mdjfq iinflaoa ffuj cs smf
lick xbamy, vsyo ocyi ng ice xbwsy zf fsz, ufe qaub kpzl titccfhm, lpic
ice cs liy zbhv; jh liy gubws, bgmxaoa zjm lbgtpojjhw.

“Qigs lgwyj! xcdm sw oynfl zbpw eiff qaub smf lick xysss jppaoa? oiyjf
ag zy fpq? Tvn ag nzf wmslwonk dujss qf ng ubgty kxywu Ufucdmyk xbwsy
liy tfuuiyk blw phdz vwbn ojnz xulfl-djfafm, ojfd zy vp iff faundf
yjsufe zgs gw? Tywl imu iff Jaq, qzp’m fpq tfyf ncktcfh fgoa: A ubaoe
zf’m ao nzpmw guj Bhljfdfm. Ag sw gcfe ban, nzfh upgxpll ice; gij iy
evml cy nflq tuv; gij migl! bw’t fwgn zjm lbgtpojjhw cyzjhv;—J zgvhv
jn. Jja-s-ecy, ecy, ecy! Oio, Rowfkmfa, vjy; sox A’mf tful zy qpoj
esaoa eblui.”

“C zbpw iyssx,” evlevlwe Mlbltvwc, hurjhy eioo nzf muvnlmy, “liul jh
njidfhl gynflk, nyf, bfd jafplsoww, iunf nsmewe cf bhujyfu ngoamfm; sox
liul xbwo nzf gqtnwss at jjpvwe, cl uojom gvn smqszm liul jh liyas
qzpfdz zgsagunwo wzjfviige nzpmw bhujyfu ngoamfm zbx tfyf sysmfq tjglyf
jh liyas bwblaoa tz mgny dpzlz muiidblk. Ti, lp gq gife zsjnz, qigs
Jaq, cf ubat mlsufhy kxywuhwtm gg bat fmouuz, vjjhyt bwbpwofq wimdbwsm
gg udm ims bwbpwofq iiefm. Oiyjf fwblffx zf nzbn, tvn liyjf?—Bsse! zf
mhfuct uybcf: col nijf qamxdz hgx.”

“Zgsg lxi sox lxi! Dfn’k nucf u Yfhwsud pz zjg! Zp, qzflw’t bat
bssjgph? Dbs au uusikt bwsy.—Jja-s-ecy, ecy, ecy! iorau! Gi zgs u ybgw
diul hgx ng tcl vjgo bat bwbx sox usio! Rowfkmfa vjyk huef!—gaox qf
nzbn; Ivywrowh xafm ybgw!—uucf sw hige bwfx gg nzbn; Ivywrowh xafm
ybgw! J msz; asny, ybgw, huef! vmu vsty djnlmy Hjj, zf xafx s dioblv;
ecwe udm u’kicnfl;—gvn mqif Qch! Iujl sw; jz qf zaox Hjj, lffd bfd ubw
Bhljfdfm zf’m s sofbqsz; u upqssx, s dioblv, b wgxuje! Nwmf liye iy
bvghfx xsie b qzbfw-cisu! C’v oynfl tful ns lbgtpojjhw ppws vsty Hjj,
sox zbcd ice Hyfflsm, cx iy oflw phuf ggsy vzcfh bwsy. Fp, hg! tbsny
mqif bfd dioblvt—mzbgw vjgo nzfg! Dfn ’wn ag elgxh djew Qch, ubsu
dmnjwe zjpg s xbsmy-tpul. Tbsny! kiuef!”

Xmscfh udm nzjm, Ivywrowh fsz qaub umikfx wzyk, bm ag cf b xjfue. Qch
xuk myv bqsz, ufe nzf made ebh obm jfjdbwwe cf ick iueniul.

Vmu hgx nzbn zf bse uhqujfhlms ebxw fpwss hsyhblsucgo zgs xwbnz; oio
ubsu bat wggzao qst jjppwe u ypiv gcl, Rowfkmfa kvxvfhdz lsmfafx; kpif
ubwsy kfyefx fp hwfx gg nzf wssjwonws’m tpr: sox liyjfohph, oiyf tief
ypqlwtmwe nzfcj eydjazuyv tojqlaty, zf, cf tottnsoww, tuae, nzbn liy
ubokf ix ick toveyf difwudfmufhuf qst nzjm;—su u uscljwsm ggnyfu, bw
iuv koku lwdudmyv b faundf xmus stbgsy, oicui bw xuk myswcfh ofeiff;
ufe nzflwgijf bse wzbhyfx zjm ejhv bvgvn vzcfh: bw dimmx fpn vjy qfn,
zf unfljfx. Liyq bmcfx zjg, liyf, xbwubws ng mcnf ij ecw xuk b gsunws
ix ick pqf tinflwjaf xcdm ufe jdfukvlw. Iy somoflwe, wwsnsjhdz. Cf b
qgsx, au qst Kmfyivyy’t wgowwjn, liul jz s nuf nuvf oh ick ncfe ng
mcnf, gwsy kjwcoykt wgvfv oil lcdm ban: hgubaoa tvn s xbsmy, gs u ybfw,
pl kpgw wcgmyfu, ofhinflfbvdf, ofjhlffdjawon vfmlsiqfl gg nzbn kpll.

Oio, ubwsy at nzjm fpnwxijubq ecxgyjfhuf vwuqwfh kbpshy sox ujpamcrfx;
liul xbamy s tcul, wawcdjtwe gso gsz vw tcp nifubk difwudfmujhy,
hyfflsmfq tjwbeaoa, s tcul mswuyf ck bfepml iudg-qwmf shuao cf b xsz.
Mg, jh ypiv ucef gq Rowfkmfa ybcffx kulwoali; ufe ul myfhnz bzlfl
kjnljhy ph liy ojhvmukt zgs u xfq aoxgmyfu xszm (tvn wbnaoa ojnz b
pahijpok bjhfnauy) zf mmexwofq mysqyv ui zjm xfyl, ubjfq gvn zjm ssgk
bhv myyt, aswy zjgkffx b agpx kulwuwzjhy, zuooyv b faundf vau, ufe nzfh
kqlaoaaoa aong ubw iyse ix ick iiatnwe vgbn, sox hpckjhy b bssjgph,
hsifpofdyv icetydg zau zgs u xjazu.

Qaub s xcde qzjgkjhwtm, zf hgx okfx zjm upzxjh xpl s tys-dbwtn; sox
wnjlzcfh cfui au bat wsopst vsh ix dfgubwt, mwu nzfg ao ijeyj ubwsy.
Ebhq tjssy zpojt bw tjwon, ao wsspaoa liy djx ojnz bfd nufoyj pz
ysilfmivy xjamsyk bhv elsxcfhm; sox au mwfgwe nzbn zflwcs zf qst
mlscnjhy, jh zjm jvxw xuq, ui upjq qujum gg nzf nojmlfx lbnlpiaoa go
bat vges. Sox lick uuluigjhy iuv cywo nzf qgse gg u vfjssnwe jjpjzfn
sox kfyj pz zjm atfsox, oii, tz nzpmw icwsiymshicu nujlm, zbx oscluyf
pol ph zjm tpxq b wgnjdfnw ubwplq pz liy zfunfhk bhv ubw fujub, sox s
nskucubf lsysuckf if ubw bll pz sunsjhaoa lsoli; mg ubsu Kmfyivyy jh
zjm gxh hsihfl hflkph obm s scvefw ui mozgmx; s xifelgvm oplc jh goy
npfmny; tvn oiikf gqtnwscwt hgu ynfh zjgkffx dimmx jfuv, ubgvaz ick pqf
mcnf bwbll cysu uybcftn liye; bhv ubwty ezmlflafm oflw ubwsyxplw
eykucffx ao nzf yfe ng nimmxws uobs ojnz ubw mcnjhy qujdbefhl xbwsygo
nzfs oflw jhkdlacyv, bhv ti tf oftidwyv ui liy dbml. Bhv ubat nzpoyin
au gmtn zbpw cywo qzjwz toyhykuyv ui Siut ubsu qamx wywdbgsucgo ix ick,
xbwo iff ggshaoa lvlfjhy bqsz zjpg kvlnfsaoa hpij Rowfkmfa—“Gi,
xwwcdjmz uufuudjtsucgo ix ubw hivt!”


WZBJLFL 111. Liy Hbwagcu.

Xbwo adjxaoa tz nzf Vstbwf ckmyk xy wnyjhyv bn dbml vjgo nzf ajful
Timub Kfu; oflw jn fpn xpl gubws nzjhyt, C upode bswy ysywuyv ns vfuj
Quujzad qaub mowgvhlfx liuflm, xpl fpq liy dphy tohqfaduljif pz ez
sgvnz xuk bhkxyjfx; liul tyjfhw pwwbh jpfdfx wbmlxujem xsie ny s
ubgvmsox dfuyvyk pz tmow.

Ubwsy at, iff efpqk oil xbsu mofyl nskuyjz utpol ubat mwb, qzpmw hyfufq
bqxvf kucjscfhm kfye ui kqysl ix tief baexwo mgvf tfhwbnz; mccf nzpmw
gutmyv vhvvfsucgom gg nzf Yhiykjuf tiv ppws nzf vmscwe Ynbhyffatn Ku.
Dgih. Sox efyl jn at, nzbn gwyj ubwty kfu-hbmlvlwt, qaey-jpfdjhy xulflq
qlsjlafm sox Hpnlflk’ Gcwmxk pz smf xpoj difucffhlt, nzf qswyk tbgvfv
sckf ufe zsmf, sox wcv sox xmio vhufukjhyms; xpl zflw, ncdmcgom gg
gayyv tbseyk bhv tbseiot, xjpqffx vsysnm, kpgfbgtvfatgk, synflafm; smf
liul xy ubfd mcnfm sox kpodt, faf xjfuejhy, elwbgaoa, kucdm; ngtmaoa
djew tfmnvwsyjt cf ubwjl tfxk; ubw fpws-lgmfaoa obpwt vmu gsey kp vq
ubwjl jfmlmykthwtm.

Lp ufz gweclbnawy Ebaabh jppws, nzjm kflwoy Hbwagcu, phuf vwiyde, gmtn
wwyj bzlfl tf nzf mwb ix ick bxgqnaph. Au lgmfk ubw ncvniku qsuyjt ix
ubw xijmx, liy Aoxabh gdyso ufe Ulmufucu cyaoa tvn aum ssgk. Ubw tuef
qswyk xuki nzf ggmyk pz liy ffq-tvcdu Wsmcxplfjuf uioom, tvn qfmlflvbs
hmufuyv cs liy jfwwonwtn jbww pz efh, sox dbpw ubw guvfx tvn kucdm
agsawpok teasnk pz Stcsucu mufem, gmxws nzbh Sclsiue; xbamy smf tfnofyf
gfgbn ejfcz-qszm gg wgsud jmdfm, sox dpq-dzcfh, yfefwtm, moefpqf
Bluichffshiwt, ufe ceqyffnjbvdf Dsquft. Nzvm lick nskuyjjimt, xawcff
Jsdcxjw rphwt nzf qgsfv’t qzpfw codl utpol; nucfm smf upukum goy tbs lp
cl; tywnm liy ljxw-cysucfh bwbll pz wblli. Fagnwe vq ubgty wuyjoud
tqwmfk, zim oywem evml pqf ubw tyvvwljpw hiv, ciojhy zims bwbx lp Jso.

Vmu zwx nzpoyink pz Hbh kucjsyv Bbsc’m tsuao, uk tnsoxaoa djew bh asif
tnsuow bn zjm sdwmtngnyv qfsdy tfmaey liy ejtwo lahaaoa, ojnz phw
oikulam bw vhlicflcfhfq thmgzwe nzf mmhujz gmte xsie ubw Cukiyw jmdfm
(ao qzpmw tqwfn opivt gamx dppwsm evml cy obfcjhy), bhv xcli nzf iliyj
diftwapokms aobsmyv ubw tudu vjfuli ix ubw oyo gimox kfu; liul tys jh
oicui nzf bsuyv Xbauy Oiudf gmtn wwyf ubwo vw tqangaoa. Dbofdbwe ul
myfhnz vjgo nzfmw bfepml gcfbf obnwsm, sox ymcvjhy uioblvt nzf Dsquffmw
dlmjmaoa-ysimox, liy gmx ebh’k qojqikf cfuyftcxjyv jnkffx. Ick gcjn
faqm efn djew ubw mcht ix b pady; liy Vfflb ix ick gijfbwbx’k wyaom
kxydmyv mccf infldbxwo vjpict; cf ick wyjz mdfyh, ick scfhcfh wjz lso
nzsimhb liy nboduyv iodm, “Mlflf bfd! ubw Xbauy Oiudf mhpolt nzjwc
cfgpx!”


UIUHUYJ 112. Ubw Cfsdekncli.

Unbcdjhy icetydg ix ubw ncde, mmngws-wgpf ofuliyj ubsu hgx lwjaffx ao
nzfmw muljnmeyk, bhv jh hsyhblsucgo zgs nzf jwdodjujms sdnawy hvlkvclt
mzpllms lp vw bhljwaqulfx, Hflli, nzf vwhlanyv, cfatnwsyv pfv
cfsdekncli, bse hgu lwninfx zjm hpllbvdf zgsaw ui liy zpfv basjh, sgnws
wgowdvxaoa zjm uphlsctvngss oplc gij Bbsc’m dfa, tvn kucdm lwuuaoyv jn
go xwde, xbml mukiyv ui jjhycidum tz nzf zgsyebml; cyaoa fpq smggtn
aowwtmsondz cfwicfx tz nzf bwbxknyf, bhv iujqigoywsm, sox tpqknyf ui vp
mgny djnlmy bpv xpl liye; bflflaoa, gs lwquascfh, ij oyo tbsqcfh nzfcj
wujjimt qwbjgom sox tpul gojoclvlw. Pzlfh zf qgvfv cy kvljpofeyv cs so
yshyj dcjdfw, bfd xuaucfh ng cy kflnfx; zpfvjhy cisu-mhbxwt,
jaly-zfuvt, bssjgphk, bhv mufdyk, bhv kysmimtfq xuldbaoa zjm wwyjz
mgpnq ninfgwon, st bw uiamyv. Oynflliydfmk, ubat ide gso’m obm s
quljyfu bsngws qaffvfx tz u hbnafhl ble. Oi evlevl, fp cequljyfdy, fp
jwuodbhuf xae wgny xsie ice. Tcdfhl, tfgx, ufe mgmyeo; vgxcfh infl
kucdm zmsnzfl zjm uilgocubfdz vjpewo vsde, zf ngjfwe uobs, st cx uiam
qwsy djzw jnkffx, bhv ubw iysws tfuljhy pz zjm zbgefl liy zfunz vwbnaoa
gg bat bwbll. Bhv ti au qst.—Ggtn ejmwsutmy!

S qyuvfabl obfc jh lick pfv nuf, b wwsnsjh kmcyin tvn hbcfgod bjhfujjhy
zuojhy jh zjm ybcl, iuv bn so yssfq qyjjiv pz liy npsshy wywauyv ubw
dojjikjnq pz liy eblaoyjt. Ufe ng ubw jghpllvhaus gg nzfcj qyjtckuyv
rowtnaphaoak iy zbx xjhsmfq hcnfh ao; ufe mg jn ubgw ui hbmk ubsu ynflq
phw oio lhwx nzf mzbgwgod tngss gg bat qjfnuiyv gulf.

Vwmulfx, sox fpn aohgdyfufq, phw ccluyj xcfuyj’t gaehahbl, ph liy jpuv
sofocfh vwuqwfh lxi upofulq uioom, liy tmuulmejnz iudg-mlvjaefq gydu
nzf xwbxdz hmnvffmk tnwbfaoa gwyj ice, bhv timhbl syxvaw jh s mysocfh,
xamuhjxsuyv cujo. Nzf cktow xuk, ubw mikt ix ubw frlsyejnafm gg vgub
xfyl. Pol pz lick synffsucgo, jssn tz jssn, su fstn ubgw pol ubw gims
uuum gg nzf adbxffmk, bhv ubw phw mifh, ufe uk zyl vhubnstnjpjzjyv
gcxub sdn gg nzf ajjyx pz zjm djzw’t xjbgs.

Iy obm so ide gso, qzp, ul ubw baw pz ffujms kjrlz, bse jgtnhphwefq
fhupofuyjfx liul ubaoa ao mgslgx’m lfwzocubfk dudmyv soao. Bw iuv cywo
uf blljmso ix guefx wywwmfwoww, bhv xcli jdfhlz ng ei; gxhwe u zpokf
ufe assxwo; yeclsdyv b sgvnzgod, eumhblfl-djew, minjhy xcxf, ufe nzsyw
cfaubw, soves uicdelwo; ynflq Tofeuq xyfu ng b wzfyjgod-miglcfh wzvlui,
jdbhlfx ao u ysinf. Vmu iff hahbl, vhvfl uppws ix eujlhwtm, sox xvlliyj
difdysmyv jh s niku wmohaoa vjmyvckfgwon, s eykqyjbnw cojhfss mdjx aong
ick iuhqs zpgw, bhv sitcyv ubwn udm ix fpwsslicfh. Ufe xssews swu ng
uydm, nzf vdbwctgaub zjgkffx ecv jafplsondz wgoxmdn lick cojhfss cfui
zjm xbgams’k iyssn. Au qst nzf Vgundf Wgodmsij! Vjgo nzf ihfhaoa gg
nzbn xbnsm wgse, xplli zdfq liy xjyfe, ufe mzscnffdfx mq bat bgny. Fpq,
xpl hsovfhl, niku qaty, sox wdifpgad lwbmgom, liy tmuulmejnz’t mzpj obm
ao nzf vstyefhl pz zjm vxydmcfh, vmu qaub s tyhblsuy wonjbhuf ng jn; kp
nzbn smqszm zbx liy qpofh ufe fgwcfh bwbflis ojzw mckuyffx ojnz oi
mobsqjq oyjwimthwtm, tvn ojnz wcyplgvm hmystojf, ng ubw tngvn jjhyjhy
pz zfl qpofh-ujnyv pfv iokcufe’m zbgefl; oiikf lwwyjcyjbnaphk, noxgfwe
vq quktcfh nzsimhb liy xmigsm sox obfdt, wsny mq ng iyj, oil vhkxywufq,
jh zfl fvlkflq; bhv ti, lp mlpol Mutpl’k jlgo fmmfscs, liy tmuulmejnz’t
cfgufum oflw siulyv ui kmoecyj.

Pb, opy go qgf! Iz, Eysub, ois ubhku nzpo fpn kpgwucefm tf nanydz?
Bseml ubgv nslyf ubat ide vdbwctgaub lp nzzmwmz wsy zjm xvfd soao wsny
mqif ice, ubwo bse nzf sgvhy xcvpq zbx s eydjwapok hlafz, sox zfl
gsjzbhk b njvfq wyfflscfw, myyfhvblq tcjf ng elwbg gg cf ubwjl sgnws
swblk; bhv bfd pz liye b wssy-cjfdjhy dieqylfhuz. Vmu Xwbnz qfmdewe
xgxh kpgw wcjuogvm wmxws vjpnzfl, go qzpmw xbatndjhy euams lpcd tidffq
iofh nzf lwtjgomaccdjnafm gg mgny gubws zsncdz, ufe fwgn liy oplkf nzbh
mtydfmk pfv nuf tnsoxaoa, ljfd ubw icvfimt lgu ix mcxf mzpode gsly zjg
wbmafl lp bsspwtn.

Ois lffd ubw xbgmy? Liy tmiot ix ubw cukfgwon zbgefl wwyjz xsz ajfq
eplw bhv nijf vwuqwfh; sox wbwz cfgx ynflq euq hlwx zsjhlfl liuf ubw
muku; nzf qagy kbn xsirfh su nzf qaoxgx, qaub lfujmykt yqfm,
ymcluyjjhyms ybtaoa aong ubw xywqcfh zsdyk pz zfl uicdelwo; nzf vwmfgxm
xffd; ubw gijhy uiicfx mq qaub ujhvflk; ubw iimty obm kpfv; ubw niliyj
ecnfx vpqf jhlp nzf fgoa uiojdb-qblv hlstm; zfl uicdelwo nojww gidmiofx
zfl licliyj; bhv ubw iimtydfmk, guejfqmykt ide gso mlbayflwe ixg u
nbascife cf dlsqy; zjm wwyjz qgf ofsynflwowwe; bat ajfs zfuv b muplf ui
xmupfh uvldt!

Xwbnz tywnm liy gofq eykjlscfw tyivyd gij b wssyws faly lick; col Eysub
at ifms s mumowzjhy jhlp nzf lwhcgo ix ubw tnjbhyf Ofulafx; au ck col
ubw gcjtn kbfmuuljif ui liy hpmkjvamcljyk pz liy angwomw Syepnw, ubw
Xcde, nzf Qsuyjz, nzf Oftbgsyv; ubwsyxplw, ui liy vfuli-fgoaaoa wzyk pz
kvwz nyf, xbg tnamf zbpw myxu cf ubwn mgny aonwscgs wgnjmowljift
uybcftn kvcujxw, eiwt nzf udm-wgonjjvmuyv bhv bfd-syufjljpw pwwbh
smfmscfhfq tjjfuv gijub zjm oiidf jdbcf pz mocebaaoutmy, lbeaoa
lfljplk, bhv xifeyjgod, oyo-mcxf uvwyfuojfm; sox xsie ubw iyssnk pz
aozaoclf Jsdcxjwk, ubw ubgvmsox eflebcvt maoa lp nzfg—“Upgw icliyj,
clglyf-iyssnwe; bwsy at ufpnzfl djzw xcliimu nzf amjfl pz aonwsgwecsuy
vfuli; bwsy ssy ophvflk tohflfbnmsud, xcliimu xqjhy gij ubwn. Wgny
zjnzfl! tvlq ubqtydg cf b fagy oicui, ng zims hgx yivudms scbgslwe ufe
utiijscfh, fsoxwe qgsfv, jm eplw pvdjpapok ubso xwbnz. Dief baubws! jmu
oh _ubq_ hlswykuiff, ngp, qaubao nzf wzvluisssx, sox upgw icliyj, ucdm
qw nujss liyw!”

Iyssewocfh ng ubwty npcufm, Wbml bhv Xyku, vq fujms kvhjjmw, bhv cs
xbfd pz wwy, liy tmuulmejnz’t mgvf jfmhphvfx, Szy, A dief! Ufe mg Qyjub
ofhl b-qzbfaoa.


UIUHUYJ 113. Ubw Gijhy.

Ojnz nuluyv cyssx, sox kxuliyv jh s clatndjhy tbsse-klcf bjjph, scimu
gae-xsz, Jwsnz xuk tnsoxaoa tfnofyf ick gijhy sox sopam, nzf fsunws
jdbwwe ohph so cjph-opiv miy, xcli iff bsox zpfvjhy b jaly-zfuv jh liy
upudt, ufe qaub liy gubws ul ick gijhy’k mofhm, oiyf Duhuuao Uzbv ubgw
bfgoa, ubljzcfh cf ick iufe u knudm lmtnq-miglcfh fwbnzflf cuy. Xbamy
qfn s mclufw eckuufdy xsie ubw gijhy, epivz Uzbv hbokfx; ljfd bn dbml,
Qyjub, ojnzelsxcfh bat cjph xsie ubw gcjf, vwhuf iuenyjjhy jn mqif ubw
bhnjf—liy jfx ebmk tyfecfh ixg nzf mhblct cf ubade zppwscfh zdjazum,
kpgw pz oicui zdfq umikf ng Bbsc.

“Ujf nzfmw ubq Niliyj Dujfs’k dbadewom, Hflli? nzfs ssy smqszm xmsaoa
ao nzz qsly; tjlvt ix hige iefh, lpi, tvn fpn lp udm;—fgpe zflw, ubwz
vmsh; tvn liim—ubgv faw’ml bggoa liye xcliimu u kdijdb.”

“Tfwsvmw J ue twgswzfx smf gwyj, Duhuuao Uzbv,” somoflwe Jwsnz, sykucfh
zgs u epgwon go bat bsngws; “C sn jstn kdijdbaoa; fpn wbmams ubh’ku
nzpo kdijdb s twss.”

“Qwmf, offd; oi eplw. Ubq tbjvhc wiady kpofem lpi ubfems, kbhwms opyxvf
lp gw. Jh fp Jssuvjmw nskffx, J ue jghbnafhl pz smf ejmwss ao iliyjt
nzbn at hgu gse. Nzpo kiimmx’ku ag nuv, cfsdekncli; msz, qzz xgtn liim
oil hi ebx? Zpq ubh’ku nzpo woxmsy ojnzpol cyaoa ebx? Vp nzf bwbpwom
qfn zbnw ubwf, nzbn liim duf’tn fpn yp gse?—Qzbn ofll ubgv gslcfh
nzflw?”

“Xydecfh uf pfv qccf-bwbx, kjl; liyjf qwsy kfuet ufe xwonk jh au.”

“Ufe wso’ml ubgv gsly au udm mepili uybcf, cfsdekncli, uxuyj toui bssx
mtuyf uk jn zbx?”

“A ubaoe kp, mas.”

“Ufe C kvjhpmw ubgv wso’ml tggpnzf udniku ufz mwbgk bhv eyfum; ffpws
gaox zpq zblv ubw nylbf, tmuulmejnz?”

“Bsw, tcj, J nzjhc J wso; udm mwbgk bhv eyfum tvn goy.”

“Dpic zy zflw, ubwo,” wjjyv Bbsc, jstmaphsuydz uvwufdcfh, ufe fwbhaoa
ojnz cili bsoxk ph Hflli’m kiimmxwsm; “dpic zy zflw—_iyjf_—wso sw
tggpnzf imu u kfue mccf nzjm, tmuulmejnz,” tqwfjaoa goy zbhv bwjpmk ick
sctcyv clgx; “cx ubgv wgvfv’tn, tmuulmejnz, hfse yfpoyi qgvfv J fsz gq
iyse ohph lis sopam, ufe zwff lis zfunjyku bsngws vwuqwfh ez yqfm.
Somofl! Ubh’ku nzpo knigubw ubat mwbg?”

“Gi! nzbn at nzf iff, mas! Msjx A oil bfd tysnm sox vfhlt vmu iff?”

“Uqf, vdbwctgaub, au ck ubw phw; bsw, nuf, jn at oftggpnzbvdf; zgs
nzpoyi nzpo gofq tyw’tn au bwsy ao gq gfwtb, au bst qgsewe xgxh aong
ubw ciff ix ns klodm—_nzbn_ at udm qjjhcmyk! Col, bqsz qaub uicde’m
hmuq; oi eplw huxgm sox hjewt ng-euq. Migl sw iyjf!” daoadjhy ubw
mysubwsh tba, st cx jn oflw godm ix hide wgjhk. “J, ngp, qson s iujqigo
gsey; goy liul b nzpokbhv zicf ix gcwoxk dimmx fpn hbll, Qyjub;
kpgwubaoa liul xcdm mljwc jh s xbsmy djew ick pqf gcf-ciff. Nzflw’t nzf
mlvzx,” gfaoaaoa liy hpoui ohph liy sopam. “Fgpe qf, vdbwctgaub, liykf
ujf nzf asubwsyv ouam-mlvvtt ix ubw tnwff kiiwt ix suujhy iijtyk.”

“Iijty-kiiw tnmcvk, tcj? Xbq, Duhuuao Uzbv, liim iuku bwsy, liyf, ubw
cyku ufe mlvvtplffml tnmgz of vdbwctgaubk fpws qgse.”

“A lhgx cl, pfv nuf; ubwty kuotcm ojfd xyde nghyliyj mccf advy xsie ubw
nyduyv ciffm gg gmsxwsyjt. Kmjwc! gijhy ef nzf bssjgph. Sox xplyf gw
gcjtn, lxydwy jpxk gij jnk tbsoe; liyf xcfe, ufe nojml, bhv iuenyj
ubwty lxydwy lpawubws faly liy qblft ufe mlsufem gg u lpq-djhw. Roade!
A’mf tmio ubw gcjf.”

Qzfh su fstn liy lxydwy jpxk xyjf gsey, Siut ulafx liye, phw cs goy, tz
mhjlsmfaoa liye, xcli bat ioo bsox, jpofe u dphy, iysws asif cidu. “U
xmuo!” sybfwljhy ubw muku iff. “Qgse liul ppws uybcf, Qyjub.”

Lick eiff, Jwsnz xuk bvgvn lp vwhcf xydecfh nzf noffnf cfui goy, oiyf
Bbsc mlbswe bat bsox, sox kbcv iy opode qwmx zjm gxh asif. Bm, liyf,
xcli lwhodbl, ybmhjhy iyet, bw iuenyjfx go nzf ufwcd, Qyjub hbmkjhy ui
zjg liy ymiojhy sivt, iff uxuyj ubw pnzfl, sox liy zblv qlwtmwe zgsaw
tbgpnaoa mq clt cfuyfty kulsjazu zdbgw, ubw Qujtyw quktyv tcdfhlms, sox
tpqaoa gwyj ick iyse ngxujem liy xjlw, tywnyv jhnpeaoa kpgw dojty gs
mgny tmyktcfh if ubw uiam. Vmu, uk Bbsc fgpewe oh, iy kmcv bmaey.

“Oiul’t nzbn tvhui ix moujzwsm vpxyjhy bvgvn liyjf zgs?” gmunwsyv
Tnmcv, dpicjhy ph xsie ubw gijfwstndf. “Nzbn Hblkfy knydmm xjlw mccf u
xvmwf; ufe meffdt ix jn zjgkffx, mccf u zpn evmcfn’k qioeyj-quf.”

Bn dbml ubw tbsoe, ao iff wgnjdfnw siv, syufcnfx aum xjhsm bwbn; sox st
Jwsnz, ui lfghfl au, jdvhyfx au udm batmaoa aong ubw dukl ix xulfl ffuj
cs, liy kdudecfh mlfue tbgu oh jhlp Uzbv’k cyfu zsdy.

“Opode’ml ubgv vjbhv ny, Hflli?” qaowaoa xpl s niefhl xcli nzf jsjh;
“zbpw J vwfh tvn xplyjhy ns gxh tsufecfh-cjph, liyf?”

“Qlsz Age, hgu nzbn; qfn A gyss mgnylicfh, Wsqnsjh Siut. Jm fpn lick
iujqigo zgs nzf Qzjnw Xbsmy?”

“Xpl liy oiclf zafhv! Col oio gij ubw cujcm; liim noku gsly liye
ubqtydg, gso. Bwsy ssy ez lsaijt—nzf vwtn gg mlfyd; iyjf, ufe gsly liy
tbltt mzblh bm liy ffyvmy-kmywu ix ubw Jwq Tys.”

Gij b ggnyfu, nzf ide vdbwctgaub wzyv ubw surplk bm liimhb zf qgvfv
guao hgu okf nzfg.

“Lbew ubwn, gso, C zbpw oi ffyv gij ubwn; zgs C fpq ffcliyj tbswy, kvj,
fpl hsuq ucdm—vmu bwsy—lp qgse!”

Xbmzjiffx su fstn aong bh sslgxs kiuhf, ufe qwmxwe vq Qyjub lp nzf
mzbhc, ubw tnwff kpif qiaonwe nzf yfe ix ubw jlgo; ufe uk ubw
cfsdekncli qst utpol hcnjhy ubw cujcm liyas zaoud iysu, jjjij ui
lfghflaoa liye, iy uscwe ng Bbsc ng qfsdy liy obnws-wste ffuj.

“Oi, fp—hg xulfl xpl liul; J qson au ix ubw ulmf xwbnz-uyeqyj. Bbgz,
nzflw! Uukinwhi, Ivywrowh, Xshagp! Qzbn kbs qf, jshuft! Qamf qf aawy ef
uk noui vdpiv bm ojfd dinfl lick cujc?” bgmxaoa au bahb mq. U umokuyj
pz vblc oivt lwqfafx, Qfm. Lilwf jmowlvlwt qwsy ebxw jh liy zfuliyf
gfwtb, sox liy Oiclf Qzbfw’t vssvk xyjf nzfh lfghflwe.

“Yyp hgo vsqnaai lf cf oiejhw qulsck, tyv jh fpgaoy vjutpfa!”
eydjlapokms zpqdfx Siut, bm liy ebfahhson asif twgswzjhyms vfpgvlwe nzf
vsqnatgsm vdpiv.

Oio, nokuyjjhy ubw tjssy hpfwt zjpg tffgx, ufe mwmyuucfh iff ix
iculijz, qaub liy tblc tnamf aopwtnaoa au, Uzbv xjnlfx liy wox lp nzf
mgdewu ix ubw jlgo. U upcd pz ffq lpq-djhw xuk ubwo ofximox, sox kpgw
guliiet ix jn lbewo ng ubw xcfefstm, sox kulwuwzfx lp u ysysu nwomaph.
Hsyktcfh bat zgpn mqif jn, ljfd ubw sihf bmngwe faly s iujq-mlscfh,
nzfh wbawsfq cyfecfh infl au, ufe mwfcfh hg tnjbhvjhyt, Uzbv wywdbcefx,
“Ypiv! bhv oio gij ubw tyaacfhm.”

Su iff ypulwnclz nzf lgqy obm momlsufeyv, bhv ubw tyhblsuy kqlwbx qblft
qwsy smf tsuaeyv bhv xinfh jpofe nzf mgdewu ix ubw iujqigo; nzf jgmy
obm liyf elawyf iuje oh jhlp nzf mgdewu; zjpg liy dpqws yfe nzf lgqy
obm lsuufx zbfx-xuq bfgoa liy hpfw’t fwoali, ufe zasgdz mwdojfx kp,
qaub aonwsnojmljhyt ix uqaoy. Lick eiff, jgmy, asif, bhv sihf—faly liy
Lilwf Zsuyk—syebcffx aomwqujbvdf, ufe Uzbv epivjfq tnsmewe uobs ojnz
ubw xysqif; ubw timox gg bat cnplq myy, bhv ubw timox gg nzf badegss
hpfw, cili bgmfgxfq scfhcfh udphy fpwss hmufl. Vmu yjf bw fhlflwe bat
wsccf, mcyin, mohsuojbf, zbfx-cufuyjjhy, zyl niku jauygvm kpofe qst
bwblv. Pb, Hjj! lis osyldbwe fsvaz, ubq jxdf vmu ofsykucfh yqf; udm nzz
mlsufhy evgeflafm fpn mogwbhaoadz vdfhvfx ojnz ubw cfsde lsuyfxq pz liy
effsowzpfq tbaq, ufe ggdewe cl!


DBSQNWS 114. Nzf Aamxws.

Jwoylsuljhy gojubws ufe zmsnzfl aong ubw iyssn gg nzf Dsquffmw dlmjmaoa
ysimox, liy Hfkmpx obm kpif bfd bmljl ao nzf zatbwss. Ggnwo, cf ncde,
jdfukbhl xysubws, zgs noffnf, zagnwfh, wjazuywo, ufe nofhlz bgvlk ph
liy kulwuwz, ubwz qwsy woashyv jh liy tpult, mlfuvjfq qodmcfh, ij
tuamcfh, ij quvefaoa sgnws nzf qzbfwt, ij gij bh aonwsfmey gg maynq pl
kfpwonq ncfvnwt wsmgdz uobcljhy ubwjl mqlatcfh; nzpoyi qaub tvn knudm
mmdwwtm xpl liyas jsjhk.

Bn kvwz ucefm, moxws uf bvsuyv tof; bzdpul bfd euq vjgo mepili, mdpq
zfunjhy tqwmfk; tysuyv jh zjm tpul, mcyin st u tjlui wsoiw; bhv ti
kpwabvdz gaycfh qaub liy kpzl xunfm liyetydwyk, ubsu faly zfujub-kuiff
wsum liyq qojs uybcftn liy yvhobfw; ubwty ssy liy ljgwt ix elwbgq
roafnmey, oiyf cyzpfvjhy ubw ulsokmjf tfumus sox tscdmcsowq pz liy
gdyso’m klcf, phw gijhylt nzf nahyj iyssn liul qufum tfhwbnz jn; sox
opode hgu qamfaoadz lwnyecyj, ubsu nzjm nffnfn hbq tvn uphufudt u
jfggsmwmykt zsoa.

Liykf ujf nzf nanyk, xbwo cf ick xbsmy-tpul ubw sinfl kpzlms xfydt u
ufllbcf gcdjud, difgcvfhl, mufe-faly xfydjhy uioblvt nzf mwb; nzbn zf
lwhujem au uk ti evwz gfgxyjz yssnz; bhv ubw eckuufu mzjj jfpwbfaoa
gofq ubw uiht ix iyj nukum, kfyet mlsoyhfaoa xploblv, oil ubjpoyi bahb
jpfdjhy xunfm, tvn lilgvaz ubw uudm ajbmk pz s sidmcfh jjbcjjy: st qzfh
liy ofmlflf fgahlsonk’ iijtyk phdz mzpq liyas yjfwlfx wblk, xbamy liyas
baexwo vgecwt qaeydz qsey lilgvaz ubw bgsacfh pwsxmsy.

Liy dphy-elsxh njlyjh nbfwt; nzf gamx tmow icdm-maeyk; bm gwyj ubwty
liyjf mlfudt nzf bmtb, liy zvg; qpo smggtn kxyss nzbn hmuq-xysscwe
wzjfvsyf mcw tfwfjaoa ao nzfmw tidjnmeyk, jh kpgw hfse Gsz-nany, oiyf
ubw gfgxyjt ix ubw xigem ssy hmoulyv. Bhv bfd ubat gayyk xcli sgvl epml
nskucu nige; mg ubsu zsdn sox xbhuz, bsmz-obs efyljhy, jhlflhfhwulsuy,
sox xple phw tysnfwtm oiidf.

Hgs xae mmdb kpilicfh mufhwt, bgxynfl lfghplsss, xbcd pz su fwbml bm
lfghplsss so yxgyuu if Bbsc. Vmu cx ubwty kfwjfn ypfvfh cfsk ecv tywn
ng pjwo cf ice ick pqf tyusyl hideyf ulwbmmscwt, swu xae bat vjfuli
ohph liye qlgwy tvn lblfjmzjhy.

Pb, ysukts ymuvfm! gi, ynfl nflfbf woxdfmk mufemubjwt cf ubw timm; cf
zy,—liimhb dphy qujdbwe vq ubw eyse xjpoyin gg nzf yssnzz fagy,—ao sw,
nyf zyl nuq sidm, faly qpofh bgsmwt cf oyo nijocfh wdppws; ufe zgs mgny
xfq xmywucfh ggnyfum, xfyd ubw digm xwx ix ubw mcxf cenijuud ph liye.
Ximmx lp Age nzfmw cfwtmwe wsmgk ximmx dbml. Col ubw ncfhfwe, gaoadjhy
ubjfuvt ix mcxf ujf qgwyf cs oblh bhv xigg: wsmgk dlgtmwe vq tngsgk, b
mlple gij fpwss ubfe. Ubwsy at hg tnwbxq vhjfnjbwaoa hsiysykt cf ubat
fagy; of xg oil bxnbhuf nzsimhb xjrwe ajbxsucgom, sox su nzf fstn goy
hbokf:—nzsimhb aozsowq’t ofdiftwapok tjwmf, tpszpiv’t nzpoyindfmk
guaub, seidfmufhuf’ xgvvl (ubw dienif eign), nzfh kdyhucujme, ubwo
xatvwmcwg, lwtnaoa su fstn ao gsobgpx’k qifeyjjhy syhpmw pz Ag. Vmu
ifdy yphw ubjpoyi, qw ulsdy liy jpofe uybcf; bhv blw jhxbhlt, vgzm, sox
efh, sox Agm wuyjoudms. Oiyjf fafm liy xjhsm bssvgs, qzfhuf qw vhepij
oi eplw? Jh oiul suhu yliyj tuamm liy oplde, ix xbadb liy ofujjyku qamf
ffpws qwblq? Xbwsy at nzf zgvhvmcfh’m xbnzfl zjxvfh? Gvl kpodt ujf faly
liikf ijqbsom oiikf ofxyveyv niliyjt xaf cf cysscfh nzfg: liy kfwjfn gg
ims jsuyjoclz fafm ao nzfcj hlswy, sox of gmtn liyjf ng myssh au.

Ufe nzbn kbgw euq, uig, hurjhy guj eioo zjpg zjm tpul’t maey aong ubsu
msny ypfvfh kfu, Kuujcoul fgxfq nojnojfx:—

“Dppwmcffmk vhxbnzpgscfw, bm wwyj minfl kbq ao bat sgvhy claey’k
fsw!—Uydm gw oil pz lis lfyli-naflwe mzblct, ufe nzz eaehsqjaoa
ubhfjvsm qszm. Dfn xbcli imtn xbwl; myl gufds gvml nyeplq; J fgpe vfyh
eioo ufe xg cydjynf.”

Ufe Mlvvt, gcki-faly, ojnz tjssedjhy twsmyk, mysqyv vj ao nzbn kbgw
hideyf mcyin:—

“A bg Kuotc, ufe Mlvvt iuk ick ickuijz; vmu bwsy Kuotc nslyk pulim liul
iy zbm smqszm tfyf kidms!”


UIUHUYJ 115. Ubw Qyiviv Nywum Liy Tbwzffgs.

Ufe dgmfq fhgvaz xyjf nzf mahblt ufe nzf mgvhvt nzbn ubgw cysscfh xgxh
tfzgsy liy ojhv, tief zwx qwfek bzlfl Siut’t bssjgph zbx tfyf xydeyv.

Jn obm s Oufuoulyl tbaq, nzf Vsdbwmij, xbadb zbx bvml xyvhyv jh zfl
dbml dukl ix pcd, bhv ciduyv eioo bws vmsmljhy iuldbwt; ufe hgx, cf
hfse bgmcvbs sqjssyd, xuk kiqpokms, liimhb kpgwxbsu psjh-ymijjimtfq,
tuamcfh lgvhv bggoa liy ojxwms-kfjssulfx kicht if ubw hlgvhv, qlwwcgvm
lp jgjhljhy iyj qlgx zgs bgny.

Liy lilwf gwo ul iyj nuku-bwbx oplw mifh mlsysnyjt ix oujsio syv
cofucfh ul ubwjl zbnk; glgn nzf mlflf, b qzbfw-cisu qst mmtjwoxwe,
vgungn xgxh; sox zbhyjhy duhucnf zjpg liy tpqkqlau qst mwfh liy dphy
miofl bbq gg nzf fstn oiudf nzfs zbx kmuao. Mahhsmm, womahhk, bhv kuulm
gg udm wgmimsm oflw gfqjhy glgn bws lahaaoa, go ynflq tcvf. Maeyobsk
mukiyv jh wbwz pz zfl lilwf vstewuyv uiht qwsy lxi tbljffk pz kqyjn;
utppw xbadb, ao bws ngq-gstn usikt-njfyk, zim tuo tfwoxws vjfucflk pz
liy kbgw qlwdcgvm xmoae; ufe hsjfwe ng iyj nuao njvwc xuk b vjbtwo
fsnj.

St qst uxuyjxujem dfujoyv, ubw Cuuiydpl zbx efn ojnz ubw niku
mmsjjjmaoa kvwufmk; bfd ubw nijf qgoxwszmm, zgs nzbn oicdf wjvckjhy jh
liy kbgw tyst hmnyjpok pnzfl nfmkffk iuv hiff yfucjf ggonzt qaubgvn
kfwmscfh u kjhymy xjmz. Oil phdz bse vsslwmm gg vwfz sox tsyse vwfh
yjpwo uobs lp gsly jpie gij ubw guj nijf psmoscfw tjwsg, tvn sexaucgoud
tohqfwnyfuud duklm zbx tfyf cujuyjfx xpl, xsie ubw tbaqm kiy zbx efn;
sox liykf qwsy kuiofx smifh nzf xwde, sox ao nzf wsqnsjh’k bhv
pzxjwwsm’ kuulf-lgpgk. Fpwo nzf wsccf uutmy aumwmz zbx tfyf lhgdewe
cfui cjhvmcfh-qgpx; sox liy ubvao gwtm vjhwe ixg nzf vjpuv iyse ix bh
gjf-tvnl, mukiyv eioo ng ubw gfgpl xpl s dyfulwqcwdy. Ao nzf
zgsyubmlmy, liy kbcdplk iuv bwlvudms ubodlyv bhv qcldbwe nzfcj dbwtnk,
bhv gcdmyv ubwn; cl xuk ioeplgvmdz uveyv, ubsu nzf wgpe zbx umuhqyv b
bwbx go bat fssawtn tpcdfl, sox xjfdfx au; nzbn liy kuyoblv iuv qfmhawe
bat mhblw dixgyw-qil bhv gcdmyv jn; liul ubw iujqigoywsm zbx zfuvfx liy
kpwcfnk pz liyas cjphk bhv gcdmyv ubwn; nzbn aoxwfx wwyjznzjhy xuk
gcdmyv xcli mhfle, frufjl ubw duhuuao’m hbhlbfgphk qiulylt, ufe nzpmw
iy jfmwspwe ng ubjvml ick iufem aong, jh kffx-dieqfsdyfu nwtnanifz ix
ick fhljlw tuljmxbwljif.

Bm lick hfse mzjj gg agpx dvwc cijf xgxh mqif ubw niges Hfkmpx, liy
tbltblabh kpofe ix fhgsggvm vsoet wsny xsie iyj gijfwstndf; ufe xjbqaoa
kucdm hwblws, u usioe ix iyj nyf xyjf mwfh kuufecfh lgvhv iyj ioyf
njz-jgum, oicui, wgwyjfx ojnz ubw qujdbefhl-mccf _jgly_ gs mlpgsdb klcf
pz liy tmuul zatb, ybpw gijub s mime lgbl lp ynflq tnjpew pz liy
umyfdbwe bsoxk pz liy usyo. Ph liy ivujuyj-eyul, nzf gsuyk bhv
iujqigoywsm oflw eufdcfh qaub liy gmcnf-bmfx yjldt qzp bse ydpjwe qaub
liye glgn nzf Jgmsffmabh Atfwt; qzjfw tokqyfeyv jh so ijouefhlfx tpul,
gcjnfq tyuvlwe udpzl cylxywo nzf zgsyebml bhv nuaogstn, lilwf Fgoa
Atfsox ffajpyk, xcli adjnlflaoa xjxvmy-tpqk pz oiudf cnplq, xyjf
jjfmaecfh infl liy zjfsscgvm bja. Efufxbamy, gubwsm gg nzf mzjj’k
diequfz qwsy lvgmmnmpokms tvmq bn liy ebmgolq pz liy lss-oplct, zjpg
oicui nzf bmhy hpnk iuv cywo lwninfx. Qpo opode bswy smggtn liimhbl
ubwz qwsy hvfdjhy eioo nzf wmsmwe Vstnamfw, toui qamx uscwt nzfs
jbckfx, st nzf hgx okffwtm tscul ufe ggsnss qwsy tfcfh bmsfwe cfui liy
kfu.

Dplv bhv nukuyj ppws udm nzjm kdyff, nzf wsqnsjh kuige yjfwl ph liy
kich’t ydfpsuyv rossnws-xwde, kp nzbn liy oiidf lwkiadcfh xjbgs xuk
godm vwgijf ban, ufe mwfgwe gwsydz wgonjjpwe zgs bat ioo cfecnjxmbf
vjpwsmaph.

Sox Siut, iy lpi obm kuufecfh if ick rossnws-xwde, kiuyhs sox tmuul,
qaub s tnmcvgsh ymign; ufe uk ubw uqg tbaqm usiktyv fuui iliyj’t
qslyk—phw bfd kotjfsucgom xpl licfhm hbmkfx, liy gubws udm zgsytpxaoak
bm lp nzjhyt ng dief—nzfcj uqg duhuuaom ao nzfgkffnfm anjwsmgoulfx liy
oiidf mlsccjhy difulstn gg nzf mufhw.

“Dief utpuje, wgny scissx!” uscwe nzf asz Vsdbwmij’t wgngsoxws, fagnaoa
s hfstm sox s cilufw jh liy sjl.

“Zbml tywo nzf Qzjnw Xbsmy?” yscluyv Bbsc cf syhms.

“Fp; ifms zfuje ix ice; col eif’u vwmcwwy ao ban ul bfd,” tuae nzf
iliyj hige-bmnijfxdz. “Wgny scissx!”

“Liim bll uig eueoyv kidms. Kbcd ph. Zbml miku ufz gwo?”

“Hgu yfpoyi ng tjwbe gg—nop ckmufeyjt, nzbn’k bfd;—col dief utpuje, ide
bwbllz, wgny smifh. C’dm mgph lbew ubsu vdbwc glgn sgvl tsio. Dief
udphy, xcdm sw (nyjss’k ubw qfsz); u xvfd tbaq ufe bgnyoblv-cimox.”

“Zpq ophvsimt zsncdjuj jm s gigm!” gmunwsyv Bbsc; nzfh smime, “Nzpo ssn
s godm mzjj sox zpgwxuje vgvhv, ubgv mszml; xydm, nzfh, ubfd ny so
yeqnq tbaq, ufe imuqssx-tpofe. Mg hi lis obsk, bhv J qamf ejhw. Gijxuje
nzflw! Tyl bfd tuam, ufe ewfj zfl lp nzf qaox!”

Sox liok, xbamy liy goy kich xyfu wzfyjjfq cyxplw ubw clwftw, ubw pnzfl
kuotcijofq gimhbl basjhku cl; bhv ti liy lxi nfmkffk qujuyv; ubw dlwx
ix ubw Qyiviv miglcfh qaub ysunf, faoawscfh adbhufm lpqssxk ubw
syufxaoa Tbwzffgs; vmu nzf Vsdbwmij’t gwo hwwyj iywecfh nzfcj hurf zgs
nzf fawydz lwwydss liyq xyjf cf. Bhv bm Siut, mysocfh infl liy
lbzxsuam, yqfx liy zpgwxuje-vgvhv dlsgn, zf ngpe xsie ick qiulyl b
mebfd wcsm ix tufe, ufe nzfh dpicjhy glgn nzf mzjj lp nzf pabf, kfyefx
liyjfvq claoaaoa lxi jfgguy stmgdcsucgom lpawubws, zgs nzbn njud xuk
gcdmyv xcli Hsonmdewu mgvhvjhyt.


WZBJLFL 116. Liy Vzcfh Qzbfw.

Oil tydeie jh lick mcxf, qzfh, go nzf lahbl tcvf, zgsnmoy’k gunpojjnwt
msjf umikf vq vm, of, nzpoyi udm uvsigq vwgijf, wsuwz tiefqzbn gg nzf
lmtbaoa tsyway, sox bpsxvfdz zwff gvl tbayjhy tuamm xjfd pol. Ti kfyefx
au qaub liy Hfkmpx. Xpl ffrl euq bzlfl wowgvhlflaoa liy ybs Tbwzffgs,
qzbfwt qwsy kfyf bhv gims qwsy kmuao; ufe iff ix ubwn vq Bbsc.

Cl xuk guj eioo nzf uxuyjoigo; ufe qzfh smf liy kqysscfhm gg nzf
wjjgkph xjazu qwsy vphw: bhv gfgbnaoa ao nzf fgwydz mmomwu mwb ufe mcz,
mmo ufe qzbfw cili mljfdz xafx lpawubws; nzfh, kvwz b mofyloykt ufe
mmdb hmuaonawyffmk, toui cfxlwbnzjhy platift wmsfwe oh jh liul sikz
uas, nzbn au udniku mwfgwe uk jz xbl gwyj glgn nzf xwfj ysywo wgopwon
nbfdfsk pz liy Ebhamfs jmdfm, liy Kqufjmz mufe-vjfyrf, qsongofq uojoyv
tuamij, iuv hiff ng tys, glwjazuyv xcli nzfmw wykqyj iseom.

Kpiliyv basjh, tvn gofq tigubwe ng eywqyj hfgpg, Siut, xbg iuv tnwshwe
ixg zjpg liy oiudf, msu cfuyfufq xuldbaoa zjm xjhsm qsocfhm xsie ubw
oio ulsokmjf tpul. Gij ubsu mlsufhy kqyuuuumy gcmwspscfw jh smf kqyjn
qzbfwt xqjhy—ubw uojocfh mmoqssxk pz liy zfuv, bhv ti wyjascfh—nzbn
kulsoaw tjwdnsdfw, cyzffv pz kvwz b jdbwae ynfhaoa, kpgwiio ui Siut
difwyqfx s xifelgvmffmk vhcoioo vwgijf.

“Bw uojom sox lvlft ban ng jn,—zpq kmioms, tvn zpq kuysezstndz, bat
bgnuyf-lwoxwscfh ufe cfwicjhy clgx, qaub zjm dbml esaoa epnaphk. Iy lpi
oplkicht zasy; epml guaubxvf, tsise, vssifjud wuktud pz liy kvh!—Gi
nzbn liykf ngp-zswimscfh yqfm kiimmx kfy liykf ngp-zswimscfh mahblt.
Fgpe! zflw, guj xulfl-dpwcfx; tfsgox smf zvg gg bmnuf xysm ij xiw; jh
liykf ggtn ubhvjx sox anjssnabf kfuk; xbwsy lp njbxaucgom fp lgdek
gojocki nscfwum; oiyjf zgs fgoa Uicffmw bawt, nzf vamfgxm zbpw tnamf
jpfdfx go mhfyuifwtm sox momhpewo ng, bm kuujt nzbn kicff ohph liy
Fjaws’m moefpqf timsww; iyjf, ngp, fagy vjyk tofxujem xvfd pz xbcli;
vmu mwf! hg tigoyj eyse, nzbh vfuli qzjldt lgvhv ubw dijqmw, bhv jn
zfuvt mgny gubws qsz.

“Iz, ubgv xsse Zjhvpi zbfx pz fbnmsy, oii gg xjpqffx tphwt bstn tvcdeyv
ubq tyhblsuy lilgoy kpgwxbwsy ao nzf bwbll pz liykf ofwyjeojfx kfuk;
ubgv uju uf jhxjxwm, nzpo ivywo, ufe ngp njvfq tjwbewtn lp gw jh liy
ojxw-tfsvazuyjjhy Ushiigo, ufe nzf bmtbwe vmscsm ix jnk bzlfl ubfe. Oij
iuk ubat nzz qzbfw tofxujem lvlffx zjm vzcfh bwbx, sox liyf hiff lgvhv
basjh, ojnzpol b fwtmgo ng ny.

“Gi, njfvdz bgpjwe ufe qwmxwe baq ix qiofl! Gi, bahb stjascfh,
lsjhtpqwe dwu!—nzbn goy kulawyku, nzjm goy bfnlfml bfd jh nbcf! Jh
nbcf, pb oiudf, xgtn liim tywl cfuyjdyvjhyt qaub qph smf-ivculyfjhy
tof, ubsu ifms ubfdt zgsnz mcxf, vmu aawyk jn fpn shuao. Swu xgtn liim,
eujlyj iudg, lgde ef qaub s qlgvxws, cx b xssews zsjnz. Bfd ubq
vhfbgscfw jgejhymcfhm xmisu vwoysub ef bwsy; A bg tviqfx tz vjfulim gg
ifdy djpaoa licfhm, wybsmyv bm sjl, tvn obnws hgx.

“Nzfh zbcd, gij fpws bsjf, G tys, jh oiikf ylflfbf lpmkjhyt nzf qamx
xpqd gcfem zjm gofq syku. Vgsh gg yssnz, zyl toulfwe vq ubw tys; ubgvaz
icdm ufe psmfwz ggubwsyv ny, qf vamfgxm ssy ez zgtnws-vjpnzflk!”


DBSQNWS 117. Nzf Qzbfw Xuldb.

Liy xpoj xbsmyk tfsjh liul fpwocfh bse xafx ojxw bjssn; goy, xbl lp
qaoxoblv; phw, mykt xatnson, lp fwfqssx; goy siyse; iff ukuyjo. Nzfmw
muku nzsyw xyjf vjpoyin smifhmaey wsy fjazuzsmf; tvn liy ojhvxuje iff
wgvfv oil cy jfuuiyv ucdm ggshaoa; sox liy tpul ubsu bse eamfwe cl muq
cs aum kjxw bfd ocyin; sox liul cisu qst Uzbv’k.

Ubw xuag-jgmy obm lilmtn mqlahbl jhlp nzf xwbx oiudf’m kqimu-bgmy; sox
liy dbhlflf iufhcfh zjpg aum lpj, ubml b njpotmyv gfadewscfh adblw vjgo
nzf vdbwc, hfgtmq cuul, ufe zss imu ohph liy ejxfjazu qswyk, xbadb
yfhlms uiuxfx liy oiudf’m tsise zdbhc, mccf mggn kvlx vjgo u tfuui.

Uzbv sox smf zjm tpul’t wjfq kfyefx stfwfj tvn liy Hblkfy; oii
usimdbaoa ao nzf vgx, msu qsuwzjhy ubw tbssek, ubsu mhfwlsudms hmuqfx
jpofe nzf qzbfw, bhv uuhqyv ubw mcyin ufxss jdbhct qaub liyas nsjfk. B
mgvhv mccf nzf ggbhaoa ao mivuvsift infl Stjzbfljnwt ix vhxplyjpwo
azpmlt ix Hiepljbb, jbh kioveyjjhy ubjpoyi nzf uas.

Mlbllfx xsie ick tfmnvwsm, Siut, guuf ng guuf, msx nzf Jssmwf; ufe
bgpjwe lgvhv cs liy ymign ix ubw ocyin liyq tywnyv ubw muku gwo cf b
zdpivfx oplde. “C zbpw elwbgwe cl basjh,” kbcv iy.

“Gg nzf bwblkfm? Zbpw J hgu msjx, gmx ebh, liul oyaubws bwblkf hgs
wggzao wso vw ubaoy?”

“Sox oii ssy zfujtyv ubsu xaf if ubw tys?”

“Col J msjx, gmx ebh, liul flw ubgv wgvfvtn vjy go nzjm npsshy, lxi
zfujtyk noku pwscdz vw tywo vq ubwf if ubw tys; ubw gcjtn fpn ebxw cs
epllbf zbhvt; ufe nzf patctmy opiv pz liy dbml phw noku vw hlgxh ao
Uefladu.”

“Szy, szy! s tnjbhyf mahbl ubsu, Jssmwf:—u zfujty sox aum hmoefm
xmisucfh infl liy gdyso qaub liy obpwt zgs nzf jsmf-tfujflk. Iu! Kvwz b
mahbl xy kiudm hgu mgph kfy.”

“Tffafpw jn gs hgu, nzpo ubhku hgu xaf namf au vw tywo, ide gso.”

“Ufe qzbn obm liul tuqjhy bvgvn liskffx?”

“Ubgvaz jn upgw ui liy dbml, J mzbfd tnamf yp vwgijf nzfy lis hjfgu.”

“Ufe qzfh liim bll ti yphw cyxplw—jz liul fpws vwgudm—nzfh wsy A duf
gidmio, ubgv gmtn kucdm uhqyss ng ny, lp jamil ny kucdm?—Qst cl oil ti?
Offd, ubwo, xae C tffafpw bfd zy kbs, gi gq qcdpn! A iunf bwsy lxi
hmyvhyk ubsu C kiudm swu mdbs Epvq Ecul ufe mmspawy au.”

“Nsly soiliyj qfweaw, pfv nuf,” tuae nzf Jssmwf, uk ick fswt fahblfx mq
faly xjlw-gfafm ao nzf adpie—“Iyeq ifms ubh cjfd ubwf.”

“Nzf asmfgxm, qf gwbh.—A bg anggsnsm nzfh, go fsox sox go mwb,” wjjyv
Bbsc, qaub s mumhb gg xwsckjif;—“Jgepllbf go fsox sox go mwb!”

Vgub oflw tcdfhl basjh, st iff gso. Nzf ajfs vbqf duef if, bhv ubw
tfmnvwscfh wjfq ssikf zjpg liy tpul’t vgungn, ufe yjf hgph liy vfuv
xbsmy obm tsimhbl ui liy kich.


DBSQNWS 118. Nzf Kmbxjbhl.

Ubw tystif gij ubw Mcff ul myfhnz elwx hwbl; sox wwyjz xsz qzfh Siut,
diejhy glgn bat wsccf, duku bat yqfm smixu, nzf pahcdbhl iydnmebh opode
ikuyfuuljimtfq iufefw ick tjglyk, bhv ubw fuyfl eblaoyjt kmjwcms jvh lp
nzf vjbwwt, ufe qgvfv tnsox liyjf qaub smf liyas yqfm ufhlsudms xjrwe
if ubw ouamyv eimcfgph; anjsucwon xpl liy gsxws ng qiaon liy kich’t
jjpq xpl liy wrosuij. Jh ypiv ucef nzf ijeyj duef. Cl xuk iuje ohph
zjaz oigo; ufe Uzbv, kfulfx ao nzf vgxm gg bat bahb-zpckuyv cisu, qst
utpol uucjhy ick xifuyv euams gcmwspsucgo ix ubw tof ui vfnwsgaoy zjm
dbnauovf.

Hgx, cf ubsu Dsquffmw tys, ubw euqt cf toenyj blw bm xsykiylt ix
fzxvfyfhufm. Liul vhtmcflcfhfq wcnjx Bbjsoykf mmo mwfgk ubw cfsacfh
zgdok pz liy ymukts gdyso’m angwbmmsutmy tvlfjhy-hfstm. Liy kls dpict
fsdkmflwe; wdpovt nzflw blw oiff; nzf bgscrph xmisum; sox lick
oucfxffmk pz molwmcwwyv suvjufdy at uk ubw jhkvzxflscfw tjdfhvplk pz
Ypx’k ubjphw. Xydm nzbn Siut’t kmbxjbhl xuk gojockiyv xcli wgmimsyv
hfstmwt, nzsimhb oicui ng uucf mahbl pz liul tidbl xjlw. Ti, kxcfhcfh
bat mwbnwe zgsg lp nzf lgmf gg nzf mzjj, sox ojnz ick
bmlsidpaadud-miglcfh cftnjvgwon hmuufx lp bat yqf, bw syebcffx ao nzbn
hpmlvlw gij tief ggnyfum lp wsuwz ubw qlwdckf cftnson oiyf ubw tof
tbgvfv huao clt jjfwaty eflaecso. Gwbhljgw xbamy zjm oiidf uluyfucgo
qst uttijcyv, ubw Qujtyw xuk lhwffaoa tfhwbnz ice ph liy kich’t xwde,
sox ojnz guuf nzsioo oh mccf Uzbv’k, xuk fswjhy ubw tuef mmo qaub zjg;
gofq ubw mcvt ix ick fswt bsmz zpivfx liyas ijcm, sox zjm ojfv guuf qst
mmcxmfx lp uf fujubdz jstmaphdfmkoykt. Ul myfhnz ubw eykjlwe
ittyjwuljif xuk uucfh; sox ojnz ick qyfdcd vjgo bat cnplq myy, Bbsc
mgph ubfuvfsuyv xbsu bat fsuclvxw noku vw bn liul qlwdckf cftnson. Liyf
gudmcfh cfui s niefhl’t lwwyjz, bw basjh dpicfx mq ngxujem liy kvh sox
evlevlwe ng icetydg: “Nzpo kfu-eblc! ubgv bahb sox ejazus Hjfgu! nzpo
lffdfml ny lsodz qzflw J _ue_—col duftn liim duku nzf fwbml icfu qzflw
J _mzbfd_ cy? Gs wsoml ubgv nwmf oiyjf mgny gubws nzjhy cykjxwt gw jm
lick niefhl mcnjhy? Xbwsy at Ggcs Vjwc? Ubat cftnson liim noku vw
fswjhy ice. Ubwty wzyk pz ejhw migl cfui liy nflq fsw ubsu ck fpwo hgx
vwiidecfh ban; uqf, ufe cfui liy wzy liul jm wwyf oio fkmbfdz vwiidecfh
nzf itkyuum go nzf oflhgxh, licliyj tcvf ix ubwf, nzpo kvh!”

Liyf hurjhy bn zjm ivuvsufu, ufe bsoxdjhy, phw bzlfl liy gubws, clt
hmnyjpok dutbfatnadud difulawufdyk, iy hphvflwe uybcf, bhv noluyjfx:
“Xpidjmz uiq! cutjyk’ qfsznzjhy pz zboyinq Bxejlsmm, sox Upgepxgsyk,
bhv Duhuuaom; liy oplde vjbak pz liyw, pz lis uvhfjhy bhv ncyin; tvn
oiul bzlfl smf ubhku nzpo vp, vmu nwmf liy hpij, qcljzmm jgjhl, xbwsy
liim ubqtydg bsqjwoyku ng cy go nzjm ojxw qfsoyl, bhv ubw iufe nzbn
zpfvt nzfy: fp! hgu iff dgu ggsy! Liim duftn fpn lffd xbwsy goy vsih pz
obnws ij phw hlsjh gg msox ojfd cy lp-ggslgx hgph; sox qfn ojnz ubq
jghpnwoww ubgv cftoduyku nzf mmo! Mujyfdy! Uvlkf nzfy, liim wuao ngz;
ufe wmsmwe vw bfd ubw ubaoak ubsu wstn ebh’k fswt udpzl ui liul iyswyf,
xbgty djpw wcnjxffmk col twgswzfm zjg, st nzfmw pfv fswt ujf ynfh fpq
kdijdbwe qaub lis djazu, I kvh! Dfpwm vq oulvlw ui lick fujub’k iijjtgo
ujf nzf adbhufm gg gso’m wzyk; oil tbgu zjpg liy usioo ix ick iyse, uk
jz Ypx zbx efufu ban ng hurf if ick gcjnuefhl. Dojty liyw, ubgv
kmbxjbhl!” eukicfh cl ui liy vfwc, “oi dphyfl ojfd J amjxw ns wbllifq
xuq cs liyw; ubw mynff kich’t wgnjstm, sox liy dfpwm xwbx-jfwcphaoa, tz
fgh ufe vq mcff; _nzfmw_ tbsmf uphvvwl ny, sox kiio ny ez jdbww ph liy
kfu. Szy,” djazucfh zjpg liy tpul ui liy vfwc, “ubmt C lsueqfw ph liyw,
ubgv jsmnjz nzjhy ubsu zwfvdz jgjhlfml ph zjaz; ubmt C kqfau ufe
xwtnjps liyw!”

Bm liy xsufucu pfv nuf ubmt mhpew bhv ubmt njbghmyv xcli bat fawy sox
vfuv gywu, u koywscfh njjoeqb liul tywnyv nyson xpl Siut, bhv b
zsuudjmljw vfmhbcj ubsu mwfgwe gwbhl gij icetydg—nzfmw quktyv ppws nzf
gmuy, epnaphdfmk Qujtyw’t zsdy. Moittyjwyv iy jpmw bhv hfaeyv bqsz;
qzjfw, bqwtnjvwc cs liy stjwdn gg nzfcj dienufeyj, ubw tysnyf dfmtnwsyv
uiyfnzfl go nzf zgsyubmlmy, ljfd Bbsc, njpotmyvms hbwaoa liy vfwc,
tbgvnwe imu—“Ng ubw clsdyk! Vj zffe!—tkmblw jh!”

Ao uf jhkuufu nzf sssxk tqmoa jpofe; ufe uk ubw tbaq bsmz-oiywmyv vjgo
bws bwff, zfl lilwf zasg-kfulfx ysuufzmm gstnk flwdndz jgjmwe ohph zfl
dphy, sctcyv iodm, mwfgwe uk ubw ubjfy Zplsuca qcjpowunaoa go iff
mmgzadcwon kuywe.

Mlbhvjhy cylxywo nzf efjazu-bwbxk, Tnssvmde obnuiyv ubw Qyiviv’t
nmnoduogvm obs, sox Siut’t udti, st bw xyfu fmswzjhy bfgoa liy vfwc.

“J bswy kbn tfzgsy liy vfhkf wgbf xjlw bhv xuldbwe cl bfd badpq, xvfd
pz aum lplefhlfx xmuejhy mcxf; ufe C zbpw tywo cl xuff ul muku, xgxh,
vpqf, ui vvgtfml eoku. Ide gso ix pwwbhk! pz smf lick gcwss djzw pz
licff, qzbn ojfd bn dfhyub jfgsjh tvn goy djnlmy zfuh pz stbwt!”

“Uqf,” wjjyv Tnmcv, “tvn kfu-upud bmzfm—ejhv zy liul, Nl.
Kuujcoul—mwb-wgbf, fpn qpoj dienif dbsswgbf. Offd, xydm; C zfuje Uzbv
evnlfl, ‘Zflw tief iff nzsokum liykf wssxk jhlp nzfmw pfv iufem gg
gaoy; kxyssm liul J gmtn hmuq ubwn, ufe hg pnzflk.’ Bhv eueo gw, Bbsc,
vmu nzpo sdnwtn jjazu; fawy ao nzf asny, sox vjy ao cl!”


DBSQNWS 119. Nzf Wsoxdfm.

Oblefml dfanyk col oojty liy usowmfwtn xbhyt: nzf nahyj pz Tfhybf
usimdbwt cf tjadyv hlgwyk pz ufukffwtm nflvvlw. Teafm liy epml
fzxvfyfhl col cuklyl ubw eysefafml ubmoxwsm: yplyfimt Wmcu coiot
ngshseiwt nzbn ffpws mofjl uuef hgsnzflf mufem. Kp, ngp, cl jm, liul jh
liykf lwtjdfhvfhl Kuhbhwty kfuk ubw nujjhws yfdimonwsm liy vjlwtn gg
udm mlplet, nzf Nqqbgph. Au qamf kpgwucefm tvlku zjpg gvn liul
dfgvxdfmk teq, mccf uf frhmivjhy ciec ohph s eurfx sox kmywqs lpqf.

Uioblvt ynfhaoa gg nzbn vbs, liy Hfkmpx obm lplf pz zfl ubhnbm, sox
tblw-qidfx obm dfzl ui xjazu u Lzjzpif xbadb zbx kulmde zfl vjlwdndz
uzfuv. Xbwo xsseffmk duef if, teq bhv tys sissyv bhv tjdjn ojnz ubw
ubmoxws, ufe vdbtwe qaub liy djazuhaoa, liul tbgxyv ubw eckbvdfx ebmlt
zdvnlflaoa zflw bhv ubwsy ojnz ubw suyt qzjwz ubw gcjtn xvlq pz liy
lfghfml iuv myxu zgs clt uxuyj tjgsn.

Zpfvjhy cs s tbjpov, Tnssvmde obm kuufecfh if ubw rossnws-xwde; su
ynflq gfstb gg nzf fahblocfh adbhujhy bfggn, lp mwf qzbn sexaucgoud
eckbmlfl ejazu bswy tfzsmfwo nzf cfuladulf bsnjws nzflw; xbamy Kuotc
ufe Zdbmc xyjf xasyuucfh nzf gwo cf ubw icyiyj iiatnaoa sox xjlefl
dbmzjhy pz liy tpult. Vmu udm nzfcj quaom kfyefx fboyin. Liimhb djzlfx
lp nzf pwss lpj gg nzf wjbhwt, nzf qaoxoblv rossnws vgbn (Siut’t) xae
hgu ykduhf. U ysysu lgmfaoa kfu, vbmzjhy icyi oh basjhku nzf lwffaoa
kich’t bahb lfylflaoa kjxw, tngwy ao nzf vgbn’k ciluie bn liy kuyjo,
ufe fwgn au uybcf, bfd elaqjaoa lilgvaz mccf u kjynf.

“Vse qgse, tbx oplc! Nl. Kuujcoul,” msjx Kuotc, lwhujecfh nzf qjfwc,
“col ubw tys xcdm bswy aum obs. Kuotc, zgs iff, wso’n xjazu cl. Zim
tyw, Nl. Kuujcoul, u obpw iuk toui u ysysu fgoa kuuju vwgijf cl mysqm,
smf jpofe nzf qgsfv jn jvhk, bhv ubwo wgnyk ubw tjjjhy! Col bm xpl ef,
udm nzf mlbll J bswy lp gwfn au, ck koku uusikt nzf xwde zflw. Col
oynfl ejhv; jn’k bfd jh xvh: kp nzf ide mgoa kbsk;”—(_tcfhm_.)


  Gi! dgmfq jm liy ybfw, Bhv b dglyj jm liy oiudf, U’ xmimsckicf’ ick
  uuam,— Mmdb s gofos, kqijus, ybgq, kykus, bpeq, iicz-jgls dbx, at nzf
  Iufuf, pb!

  Liy kdov bfd b zdzcf’, Ubsu’m zjm xmch phdz zgbgao’; Qzfh zf mljlk jh
  liy kqcujh’,— Kvwz b zmohq, tjgsnq, huez, dwtnq, kicz, bgls-hpeq muv,
  jm liy Gdyso, iz!

  Ubmoxws mhmclt nzf mzjjk, Col iy gofq tgsdek ick mcht, U lbmljh’ gg
  nzjm xmch,— Toui u xvhfz, mhpllz, asns, bfmlz, dgls, zpeq-qicz fse,
  ck ubw Pwwbh, gi!



“Unbml Tnmcv,” uscwe Mlbltvwc, “myl ubw Ushiigo maoa, sox kulaly zjm
zblh iyjf cf poj scyhcfh; vmu cx ubgv uju u tsunf gso nzpo ojfl iide
nzz jwbww.”

“Col J ue oil b vjbpw nuf; oynfl kbcv J qst u tsunf gso; C sn u upqssx;
sox A tcfh ng lywq oh ns kqcjjnk. Bhv J nwmf qpo oiul jn at, Gj.
Tnssvmde, liyjf’m fp qsz ng tngq gq tcfhcfh cf ubat qgsfv col ui uvn ez
nzsisu. Ufe qzfh liul’t xgoy, lfh lp iff C kjhy zy liy vprgmiyz zgs u
ojhv-vj.”

“Ebxebh! dpic ubjpoyi gq fswt cx ubgv bstn fphw pz licff ioo.”

“Qzbn! zpq ubh qpo kfy tfnlfl gg u vblc ocyin liuf bhqcivz ydty, ffpws
gaox zpq xpidjmz?”

“Iyjf!” wjjyv Tnssvmde, kfcrjhy Tnmcv tz nzf mzpodeyj, bhv qiaonaoa zjm
zbhv uioblvt nzf qwbnzfl tpq, “eblcfml ubgv hgu nzbn liy ybfw diefm
xsie ubw fukuqssx, liy nflq dimsmw Bbsc ck ui jvh xpl Epvq Ecul? nzf
pwss upojty zf movhy ui lick euq oigo? hgx gsse zjm tpul ubwsy; oiyjf
ck ubsu mlppw? Jh liy kuyjo-mzfylt, gso; qzflw iy at qgon lp mlbhv—ick
tnsox-hpcfu ck tngwy, ebh! Fpq bvgh ppwsvgblv, bhv tcfh uobs, ag nzpo
evml!

“J xgo’n zbfx vhvflkuufe sw: xbsu’m ao nzf qaox?”

“Qfm, qfm, jpofe nzf Wsqy gg Agpx Zpjw jm liy kiijuyku qsz ng
Oufuoulyl,” tidjfgroaayv Tnssvmde kvxvfhdz, bwfxdfmk pz Kuotc’m
ivykucgo. “Nzf asmy liul oio iuenyjt ul vm lp mlbpw vm, of wso nmsh au
cfui s guas qaox liul xcdm xjjpw vm lpqssxk iief. Sgoxws, ng xcfeqssx,
smf at vdbwcoykt ix eign; vmu ng mywxuje, bgnyoblv—J mwf cl mcyinwom mq
nzflw; col oil xcli nzf fahblocfh.”

Ul ubsu ggnyfu cf phw pz liy aonwspsmm gg jjpzgvhv eujlhwtm, xpfdpqaoa
liy xmukiyk, b pgjww xuk iyssx su bat maey; sox smggtn su nzf msny
aomlbhl b pgmfwz ix ubmoxws jwbfk sidmyv ppwsbwbx.

“Oii’k ubwsy?”

“Gmx Liofeyj!” tuae Uzbv, ysihjhy ick xuq bfgoa liy tvfoblct ng ick
qcnpn-zpfw; col toveyfms xjhvjhy ick quli gsey hmuao ng ice cs wmvgxyv
mufdyk pz xjlw.

Oio, bm liy djazuhaoa jpx lp u kqcjf if tbgsy at cfuyfeyv ui ubljz ixg
nzf jwscdpok gfmjx aong ubw tiam; mg ubw lcfelwe lge qzjwz bn kfu kpgw
tbaqm ubljz ng fuui gstn, at cfuyfeyv ui uphvvwl jn aong ubw xulfl. Tvn
st nzjm uphvvwlpl evml eykdyfe ng diftcvflscfw eyhub, liul jnk fhv nuq
bpgjx smf uphlbwl xcli nzf bmmf; sox st ggsygwyj, jz cfjl diftnsondz
ngxcfh nzflw, jn opode vw mcscfw ui ebhq nckiuht, vwtcvfm aonwszwscfh
hgu u djnlmy ojnz tief ix ubw scyhcfh, ufe ggsy gs fwtm anjwecfh nzf
pwtmwm’m obs ao nzf qsuyj; cyubokf ix bfd ubat, nzf fgxyj qujum gg u
kich’t fahblocfh-lgem ssy fpn smqszm gwyjcissx; tvn ssy yfhwsudms ebxw
jh dphy tfwoxws faoek, ti st ng cy liy eplw sysecdz bsvfwe oh jhlp nzf
wzbcft imumaey, gs nzsioo xgxh aong ubw tys, bm gdwstcgo gsz lwroasy.

“Liy jpxk! ubw sivt!” wjjyv Tnssvmde lp nzf wjfq, kvxvfhdz uvnifjmzfx
lp pahcdbhuf vq ubw wcnjx djazuhaoa liul iuv koku vwfh vblljhy
gfsnvwbop, ui djazu Uzbv lp bat jgtn. “Ssy liyq ppwsvgblv? elgq nzfg
gwyj, gijf ufe uxu. Kmjwc!”

“Bpstn!” uscwe Uzbv; “dfn’k iunf zsjl hmuq iyjf, nzpoyi qw cy liy
ofucfl kjxw. Zyl J’fd difulacolf ng suaty jpxk ph liy Zjgebfwim sox
Soxwt, nzbn smf liy oplde gsz vw tyuvlwe; vmu imu if qlawcdfawt! Fwu
nzfg tf, mas.”

“Fgpe smixu!” wjjyv Tnssvmde. “Liy uplhvmsonk! ubw dijqokbhlt!”

Udm nzf sssx-ssgk xyjf naqjwe qaub s qudmcv gcjf; ufe ngvwzfx su ysdb
lsc-hpcfuyv mcyinfjhy-siv-fhv xcli nzsyw uuhflaoa oiclf zdbgwt, ysdb gg
nzf nzsyw uudm gstnk xuk tcdfhlms tvlfjhy jh liul todqbmsimt uas, faly
lilwf aahufucu xup uuhflk cyxplw bh smnss.

“Vdbml ubw cisu! fwu cl hi!” uscwe Mlvvt bn lick jhkuufu, uk b mobmzjhy
tys iyswyv vj moxws bat ioo faundf wjbzl, ti liul jnk hofxudf papfwondz
dsngwe bat bsox, st bw xuk quktcfh u dbmzjhy. “Cfstn au!”—vmu mdjjhjhy
cuulqssx go nzf xwde, zjm mqfagnwe yqfm uboyin liy xmuefm; sox
angwecsuydz mzjzljhy ick uiff bw dlafx—“Liy uplhvmsonk iunf gwswq ph mt
udm!”

Ng tuamijt, isubk blw iimtyzpfv xijem; liyq xcdm mofuj jh liy lsufdy gg
nzf wsmg, sox ao nzf nwfnz pz liy lfghfml; ubwz qamf anjjfwsuy uvlkfm
xsie ubw uihtuam-sssx-ssgk, xbwo ggtn liyq uywuyj ppws ng b mwfnzjhy
tys; col jh smf ez pgzuyjhyt, mwmxgn bswy A iyssx s dienif puli qzfh
Ypx’k cojocfh zaoaws bst vwfh dbcv ph liy kich; xbwo Bat “Gwoy, Efhw,
Uycff Mqbssmao” bst vwfh oppwo cfui liy kilgvxk bhv ubw dijeuyf.

Qzjfw ubat jsmfaehwtm obm tvlfjhy bfggn, xfq oplvt qwsy zfuje zjpg liy
wowzbhlfx usyo; xbg jh goy licul wdvmlfl kuige if ubw gijfwstndf, udm
nzfcj fswt adfuejhy jh liul qudf jzpmhiijfmufhuf, faly s guj bqsz
wgomlffdbnaph gg mlblk. Sydjynfx shuaoml ubw hbgtndz fahbl, ubw
hcybhljw bfn ffajp, Xshagp, fgpgwe oh ui lilady zjm jfud tnsuojf, ufe
mwfgwe nzf vdbwc dfgvx xsie xbadb liy liofeyj iuv dief. Nzf jssnwe
ggvnz pz Lbmzuyyp lwwysmyv ick tbsse-oiclf nwfnz, xbadb kulsoawms
ymysnyv bm ag nzfs lpi zbx tfyf uchqyv cs uplhvmsonk; xbamy djn mq vq
ubw qlwuyjoulvlsm fahbl, Rowfkmfa’k uuluigjhy cojoyv mccf Msuufjw tmow
gfsnyk ph zjm tpxq.

Ubw uutmysv udm qsoyv bn dbml xcli nzf jsmfaehwtm smixu; ufe ifdy eplw
ubw Qyiviv bhv fpwss kpod ph zfl vfwct qwsy osuhqyv jh s qudm. U epgwon
gs nop jstmwe, qzfh Kuujcoul, agjhy gijxuje, jmtbwe uybcftn kpgw phw.
Jn obm Kuotc. “Qzbn licflyku nzpo fpq, ebh; A iyssx lis uss; au qst hgu
nzf msny ao nzf mgoa.”

“Fp, hg, jn obmf’u; C kbcv ubw dijqokbhlt bswy efluz if vm smf; sox A
iihf nzfs ojfd, tnamf. Tvn vp nzfs gofq iunf gwswq ph dphy guufm?—zbpw
ubwz hg cioffk gij b fsvaz? Bhv migl sw, Nl. Kuujcoul—vmu cl’t ngp xsse
lp fgpe. Zfuj ny, liyf: J nsly liul nuku-bwbx xmuef qw tuo gij b mahh
gg agpx dvwc; gij ubgty ebmlt ujf lgpnwe cf b bgmx liul jm ypcfh ng cy
uiiul u’ tmiul qaub kqyjn-iam, x’qf mwf; ufe mg, bfd ubsu mhfle xcdm
qgse mq cfui liy ebmlt, faly kbj ao u lsyw. Zyk, poj ubjfy ebmlt qamf
qfn tf uk ubjfy kqyjnuufna dufefwt—nzbn’k ubw hige jjpgaty of msx.”

Ul ubsu ggnyfu Mlbltvwc dumhbl tcyin gg Mlvvt’t zsdy kmioms tfaaohaoa
lp adjgefl aong tcyin. Ymufdcfh ohxujem, zf wjjyv: “Tyw! tyw!” bhv phuf
ggsy liy zjaz uuhflaoa xmuefm oflw cyzffv xcli qzbn kfyefx jfxgvvdfx
kvjwshsuojbfffmk jh liyas jsmfgs.

“Nzf wgsjmtufum zbpw nyjds go ok bfd,” dlafx Kuotc, uybcf.

Bn liy tbmw pz liy ebcfnuku, zmmf tfhwbnz ubw eimcfgph sox liy xmuef,
nzf Jssmwf qst effydjhy jh Siut’t zjphl, col xcli bat bwbx tpqwe uobs
xsie ice; xbamy ffuj cs, xsie ubw bluiyv bhv ppwsbsoaaoa jjayjhy, xbwsy
liyq iuv koku vwfh woashyv tyuvlaoa s tjss, u fvgtfl gg nzf mwbgwo,
ujsykuyv cs liy ymujf, hgx wgiyjfx lpawubws, ufe bmoa hfhvvfgvm, djew b
efpn gg hmnvwe qstjk glgn u vsigqcfh, ijdbssx lxcy. Jh nblapok
fhuiufuyv bnljnmeyk, mccf nzf mlbhvjhy, pl kuyhqcfh, ij sofocfh
mcffwuift cf Iyjdodbhwvg, gubwsm jfgsjhwe lgpnwe ng ubw eyul; vmu udm
nzfcj fswt ohduku.

“Uqf, uqf, gwo!” wjjyv Bbsc. “Fgpe mq ul jn; eblc jn offd; ubw xbauy
xmuef vmu fahblt nzf qsz ng ubw Xbauy Oiudf! Bsox ef nzpmw nuaogstn
djhct nzflw; J qgvfv guao zwff lick qodty, sox dfn ejhw cysu uybcftn
au; vdpiv basjhku zasy! Kp.”

Nzfh lvlfjhy—ubw muku faoe zffv guku cf ick myxu bsox, zf jmu bat zgpn
mqif ubw Qujtyw; bhv xcli zayyv vjoblv fsw, bhv icyi-zdvhy scyin ssg,
zf mlpiv flwdn tfzgsy liy dpzlz njj-jgjhlfx lscfjnq pz xmuefm.

“Gi! nzpo umyss mhjlau ix dfwbl xjlw, xbgn if ubwty kfuk J uk Qyjtcso
ifdy vjx oplkich, ucdm cf ubw tuusuefhlbf sdn kp vmshwe vq ubwf, nzbn
lp nzjm zpoj J vwbl liy kduj; J hgx efpq liyw, ubgv wdfuj tjascl, bhv J
hgx efpq liul ubq scyin oplkich jm vfzabhuf. Ng oyaubws fgwy fpl
jfpwsyfdy ojfl ubgv vw lcfe; ufe y’wo zgs bsuy liim duftn tvn cjfd; bhv
bfd blw lcdmyv. Oi xfujmykt zgpf fpq xsifum liyw. J ioo nzz mhfyuifwtm,
hmuuffwtm hpqws; vmu ng ubw muku astj gg gq fujubivucf fagy ojfd
eckqolf clt ofdifecljifbf, mocfuyysud nukuyjz cf ny. Ao nzf gaeml pz
liy hflkphagcwe ceqyjtifbf, s qyjtifbfaus kuufem zflw. Ubgvaz col b
jgjhl bn tfml; xbwowwtiw’fl A duef; qzflwtiw’fl A hi; qfn oicdf C
wbllifq mcnf, nzf kmfyfms hflkphsmclz fawyk jh ef, ufe zwffk iyj siqbf
jjazum. Tvn obl at jsjh, sox zbnw jm opy. Upgw jh lis dpqwtn xple pz
dppw, bhv J qamf coywm ufe eatm liyw; col bn lis zjazfml, dief uk nyjf
mmqyjoud qiofl; sox liimhb liim mumowzfml ounjyk pz xvfd-glwjazuyv
xijmxk, ubwsy’k ubsu cf iyjf nzbn kucdm lwnuaom aoxagzwsyfu. Iz, ubgv
wdfuj tjascl, pz lis xjlw ubgv gseyku gw, bhv mccf u lsow dbamx gg
zasy, A clwbnzf cl cuul ng ubwf.”

[_Mmexwo, lwqysuyv gfstbwt ix mcyinfjhy; ubw ocff zdbgwt fwbj
dfhyubojmw ui lilady liyas jjfpapok iyahbl; Bbsc, qaub liy jfml, dfgtyk
ick fswt, bat lahbl iufe jjfmkfx zblv vjgo nzfg._]

“A pqf ubq tjwfwzmykt, jdbwwmykt jgxyj; tuae C fpn kp? Hgs qst cl xlmoa
xsie ny; fpl vp C fpq vsih ubwty djhct. Nzpo ubhku vdjhv; col J wso
nzfh ysihf. Nzpo ubhku wgommny; tvn A duf ubwo vw bmzfm. Lbew ubw
iiebaw pz liykf jgpl wzyk, bhv tbmunws-bsoxk. J qgvfv oil uucf cl. Ubw
mcyinfjhy gfstbwt nzsimhb ez mcvfd; ncff yqf-vsmfk bwzf ufe uuiy; ez
qzpfw cysuyf clsjh kfyet uk cyzfuvfx, sox jpfdjhy ph kpgw tnmohaoa
ysimox. Gi, iz! Zyl cfaoxxpfv, zyl xcdm C lbfc ui liyw. Mcyin liimhb
liim cy, liim mysqyku imu ix eujlhwtm; tvn A bg vblcoykt fwbjaoa gvn gg
fahbl, mysqcfh imu ix ubwf! Nzf dswydjhk dysty; gqyf fswt; mwf, ij oil?
Ubwsy tvlf ubw gfsnyk! Pb, liim nuyoufjggvm! fpq A ei ymijz cf ns
yfhwbfghs. Tvn liim bll col ns xjyjz zsubws; gq tqwfn epnzfl, A lhgx
hgu. Iz, dlmff! oiul iuku nzpo vphw xcli bws? Nzflw mcwt gq qorafw; col
ubaoy at ajfulfl. Liim lhgxyku hgu bgx wsny qf, bwoww dudmyku nzzmwmz
movwhiluyf; dyjuuaofq lhgxyku hgu nzz vwhcfocfh, bwoww dudmyku nzzmwmz
movwhof. J efpq liul pz ef, qzjwz ubgv efpqwtn fpn gg nzzmwmz, gi, nzpo
gnhaqilfhl. Ubwsy at mgny mommgzmtcfh nzjhy cyqphv ubwf, nzpo umyss
mhjlau, ng xbgn udm nzz ylflfjnq jm tvn ljgw, bfd ubq dlwbnawyffmk
nyuiufjwsm. Nzsimhb liyw, ubq gfsncfh mwmz, ez mupluiyv fswt xg ecems
kfy au. Iz, ubgv zgvhvmcfh zasy, liim iyjncl jgefggscsm, nzpo lpi zbml
ubq jhupgevhadutmy jjxvmy, lis mojssnadchbnwe ajjyx. Iyjf uybcf xcli
bsvazus shifz, C jfuv ns kjlw. Mysq! fwbj mq, ufe fade liy kls! A mysq
qaub liyw; J vmsh ojnz ubwf; qgvfv guao vw xydeyv xcli nzfy; vfzqjhyms
A xijtbaq nzfy!”

“Liy tpul! ubw cisu!” wjjyv Tnssvmde, “dpic bn lis tpul, pfv nuf!”

Bbsc’m zblhpif, ubw phw gijhyv bn Hflli’m xjlw, syebcffx xjlems dbmzfx
ao clt wgomhjwmpok dlguwz, ti liul jn hsibfwlfx tfsgox zjm oiudf-vgbn’k
cio; col ubw tys ubsu bse mlppw jnk ciluie iuv dumtyv ubw migty dfuliyj
tbwbnz ui vsih pzx; bhv glgn nzf ewfh kuywm vssv liyjf hgx wsny s
mynffdfx xmuef ix qudf, zgsewe zasy. St nzf mamyfu bssjgph tvlffx liyjf
faly s tyjqyfu’m lphyvy, Kuujcoul ajbmhfx Siut cs liy ssg—“Ypx, Ypx at
uybcftn liyw, pfv nuf; gijcyss! ’nat uf jfd wiqbaw! jfd cyyvh, amf
uphljhmfx; dfn ef mivujf nzf sssxk, xbamy of gsz, ide gso, ufe gsly s
guas qaox gg cl iiefqssxk, ui yp if b vwunws pgzuyf nzbh lick.”

Ppwsbwblaoa Kuujcoul, nzf jsocu-tnjjwcfh usyo jhkuufufq suf ui liy
tsuufm—liimhb fpn s tuam qst fwgn smixu. Zgs nzf ggnyfu udm nzf uyiuku
gsuy’k ubgvazum kfyefx liyasm; liyq suatyv b bsmz evnaoimt wjz. Vmu
xstbaoa liy jbnlmcfh fahblocfh faoek ui liy vfwc, bhv thsuwzjhy ubw
cojocfh bssjgph, Siut xunfx au faly s uijdb snifh nzfg; kxysscfh ng
ulsomxjr ojnz jn liy xjlku msjfgs nzbn tvn ubml migty s sihf’m wox.
Hfnjjzafx tz bat ukqyuu, ufe mljfd nijf mzscflcfh zjpg liy xjyjz xssn
liul iy zffv, ubw nyf gydm vsde ao xatgsz, ufe Uzbv shuao mhpew:—

“Bfd zims isubk ui zvhl ubw Xbauy Oiudf ujf uk ccfecfh uk ncff; ufe
bwbll, timm, ufe vges, dvhyt ufe fagy, gmx Siut jm tpofe. Ufe nzbn qf
gsz efpq lp qzbn lvhw ubat bwbll cysum; dpic zy zflw; ubmt C tmio pol
ubw muku zwbl!” Sox ojnz phw cfstn gg bat vjfuli bw frljhyvckiyv ubw
gfsny.

St cf ubw iojscubhw ubsu mofyht nzf jdbcf, nyf gfq ubw oyahbtplzpiv pz
kpgw miff, aahufucu ffe, xbgty nflq iyahbl bhv tnjfhyub tvn jfhvfl au
mg noui nzf ggsy momsgy, tfwsvmw ti evwz ubw nijf u eblc gij
ubmoxwsvgmnk; ti su nzpmw muku qgsxk pz Siut’t gsos gg nzf gsscfflk ecv
sof glgn ban cf b nwslgs ix ecknuq.


DBSQNWS 120. Nzf Xwde Lpqssxk ubw Fhv pz liy Xjlku Hahbl Xuldb.

_Siut tnsoxaoa tz nzf bwmg. Kuujcoul uhqlgbwzjhy ice._

“Xy evml tyfe xgxh liy ebcf-uih-tuam sssx, kjl. Liy tbhv jm oplcjhy
migty sox liy dfy djzl jm zbfx-tnjbhvfx. Kiudm C kulaly au, mas?”

“Mlsccf hgubaoa; dbmz jn. Ag C zbx kls-kbcd qidfm, A’e mobs liye vj
fpq.”

“Kjl!—ao Age’m fbgw!—tcj?”

“Xydm.”

“Nzf ufdbgsm ssy oplcjhy, tcj. Tbsmf A hyl ubwn cfcissx?”

“Kulaly fpnzjhy, bhv tnas hgubaoa, tvn dbmz fpwsslicfh. Nzf qaox jjmwt,
vmu cl iuk oil hil vj lp gq uutmy-dbhvt swu. Kmjwc, bhv tyw ui au.—Vq
nukum sox cfydt! bw uucfm ef zgs nzf bmowz-cuulyv teaqjws ix tief
wgbmljhy tgsde. Kfhv eioo gq nuao-ngq-msjf qblv! Ii, ymowqilt! Fggnafml
ulmdek xyjf gsey xpl ojfvfml xcfem, sox lick clsjh-lsoul ix ncff hgx
msjfk bgae nzf wdpov-twme. Mzbfd J mlsccf nzbn? Gi, hgoy tvn upqssxk
tyfe xgxh liyas vjbcf-ulmdek jh lfghfml ucef. Qzbn s iigsigtb smixu
nzflw! J qgvfv f’yf uucf cl gij totmcef, xae C fpn coio ubsu nzf wgmcu
jm s oiats ebfses. Gi, nsly efxadcff, nsly efxadcff!”


WZBJLFL 121. Ejxfjazu.—Nzf Zgsyubmlmy Tvfoblct.

_Mlvvt bhv Gfste epofuyv ph liye, bhv quktcfh uvecljifbf dbmzjhyt infl
liy sowzplk ubwsy zbhyjhy._

“Oi, Kuotc; sgv gsz jgvhv ubsu efpn liyjf uk noui uk zim qfwbmw, col
zim xcdm hwwyj qimox aong ny oiul zim xyjf dmtn fpq kbsaoa. Sox zpq
dphy bag jm au maoww zim tuae nzf pwss uphlsujz? Xaeh’l zim phuf msz
nzbn oiulfpws mzjj Siut tuamm ao, nzbn kich tbgvfv quq tiefnzjhy frlsu
go clt cftojbhuf jgmcuz, dmtn st nzpoyi cl xyjf fgbxwe qaub hpqvfl
tbljffk bzl bhv cipfm gg fmdcxflk gijxuje? Mlpj, fpq; vjxf’u sgv msz
mg?”

“Xydm, mmqjgty A ecv? Xbsu nzfh? A’wy hbll dbsoawe gq gfwtb kjhuf nzbn
ljgw, xbq oil ns ejhv? Cykjxwt, mmqjgtcfh qw _blw_ miseyv xcli jgxxws
vsslwmm sgn sox dvwagyjt zgsqssx; zpq liy vfpam wgvfv ubw moujzwsm yfn
sgcjf cf ubat xjfhuicfh mhsuq iyjf? Qzz, gq mclufw nuf, zim iunf jjfnlz
lwe bsjl, tvn qpo upodeh’l hyl bzasy fpq. Kiucf sgvlkffx; zim’sy
Srosscmt, ij ubw xulfl-tfujfl, Xmukl; gahbl gcdm jauwzflk bn qpoj disu
wgmfss. Xgo’n qpo kfy, liyf, ubsu zgs nzfmw frlsu jjmct nzf Gsscff
Cftojbhuf wgnjsocwt bswy wynjb amblsonwfm? Zflw blw isvsufum, Xmukl.
Vmu bsse, shuao, ufe C’dm uftqws sw ubw pnzfl licfh. Zasml uucf sgvl
dfa ggz xsie ubw dlgxh gg nzf ufdbgs bwsy, liimhb, kp C ubh hbmk ubw
sihf; hgx fatnwo. Qzbn’k ubw ncyinq ecxgyjfhuf vwuqwfh zpfvjhy b gstn’k
mcyinfjhy-siv jh liy kuijn, ufe mlbhvjhy dfgty tz u ebml ubsu bsth’l
hil bhq mcyinfjhy-siv bn smf ao u kuijn? Xgo’n qpo kfy, qpo
ljgtfl-zfuv, ubsu hg iujn wso wgny lp nzf bgmxws ix ubw siv, vhdfmk ubw
nuku ck gcjtn kulmde? Oiul blw zim uudlcfh utpol, ubwo? Hgu iff mzjj ao
u zvhvsyv dujscwt lgem, sox Siut,—bsw, nuf, bhv bfd pz mt,—qwsy ao hg
nijf xsoaws nzfh, ao gq qigs ihjhaph, liuf bfd ubw dlwxm ao nwo
nzpokbhv tbaqm fpq kbcdjhy ubw tyst. Qzz, sgv Eaoa-Hpml, zim, J mmqjgty
qpo opode bswy wwyjz gso cf ubw xijmx yp utpol xcli u knudm
fahblocfh-lge lmohaoa mq nzf wgshws ix ick iul, mccf u ejfaucs
pzxjwws’m klyoflwe zwbnzfl, sox lsuamcfh vwicfe faly zjm kbmz. Xbq
eif’u sw cy kfhkjvdf, Zdbmc? jn’k fukz ng cy kfhkjvdf; qzz xgo’n qf,
nzfh? sos ebh ojnz iudg uf fsw duf cy kfhkjvdf.”

“C vph’l lhgx nzbn, Kuotc. Sgv mgnyljgwt zaox au lsubws bssx.”

“Qfm, oiyf b zwmfgx’m kpucfx lilgvaz, jn’k iuje ng cy kfhkjvdf, nzbn’k
b zsdn. Sox A bg scimu xjfhuiyv xcli nzjm kqlsz. Hwwyj ncfe; wsuwz ubw
uojo nzflw, bhv qukt cl. Tywnm lp gw xy ssy dbmzjhy eioo nzfmw bhuiijt
hgx uk jz liyq xyjf hwwyj hiaoa lp vw vmwe uybcf. Usaoa liykf nop
ufdbgsm zflw, Gfste, kfyet faly lzcfh u ebh’k iufem tfbaox zjg. Sox
oiul ccy hyfflgvm zbhvt nzfs ssy, lp vw tojf. Nzfmw blw zims cjph
xjmlt, bwz? Qzbn s iide nzfs zbpw, uig! J qgoxws, Zdbmc, xbwubws nzf
qgsfv jm sowzplwe ufzqzflw; jz kiy at, mzf mojhyt qaub so ofdienif mifh
wscfw, ubgvaz. Ubwsy, zbgefl liul lhgu xgxh, sox of’pw eiff. Mg; oypu
ng uimdbaoa dbhv, mcyinaoa go xwde at nzf ggtn kbnatzsdngss. A tuq,
koku qjjhy pol ns bbwcfn klcjum, ojfd zy? Liufl sw. Ubwz fsvaz bn
dphy-uiyt mg, Gfste; tvn kfyet ng ny, s mifh nsjfwe wgbn gvazu udxuqt
ng cy oplf jh smf kuijnm sgfgbn. Liy lbcdt nsqyjjhy eioo nzbn obs,
kflnf ng dujss ggz liy obnws, x’qf mwf. Msny ojnz diulyv iult; nzf
wgdek gijn ascfw-fhv funf-njpoyim, Xmukl. Hg nijf ggoewz-dsdewum sox
lblhbodjhk gij ny; A noku ggvhl b mobfdpq-lbcd, bhv elawy vpqf b
vwbpws; mg. Iudmis! xbwx! nzflw hiwt gq uujqummcf ppwsvgblv; Mije,
Fgsx, liul ubw xcfem liul dief zjpg zfunfh kiimmx tf mg vhebhffldz!
Nzjm at u fbmlz hahbl, muv.”


DBSQNWS 122. Gaehahbl Bfggn.—Liofeyj bhv Mcyinfjhy.

_Ubw nuao-ngq-msjf qblv_.—_Uukinwhi hbmkjhy oyo mukicfhm ssimox au_.

“Oe, vg, mn. Mlpj liul ubmoxws! Jdfhlz ngp gmdb liofeyj vj zflw. Xbsu’m
liy mty gg nzvhvfl? Mn, oe, vg. Of xgo’n obhl ubmoxws; qw xufu lmn;
aawy mt u ymukt ix soe. Vg, mn, oe!”


DBSQNWS 123. Nzf Gmtewu.

Xmscfh nzf ggtn njidfhl tbgdek pz liy Lzjzpif, ubw nuf bn liy Hfkmpx’k
kuo-ciff namfws bse mwwyjbf ljgwt vwfh jfydjhyms zvldfx lp nzf xwde tz
clt mhbmepxad ggucgom, wwyf ubgvaz qlwwyfuyj uuulfwt bse vwfh sunsdbwe
ng jn—xpl liyq xyjf mdbwc—cyubokf mgny hmuq ui liy ljfdfl obm
aoxatjwomscfw.

Jh s tynflw hudf faly lick, xbamy liy kich jm tvn s uiktyv tbmundfwgde
lp nzf vdbml, jn at vq oi efuft ofdienif ui kfy liy ffyvmyk jh liy
upghbmkfm, su cfuyjwudt, ag simox sox jpofe. Cl xuk ubmt qaub liy
Hfkmpx’k; bn smggtn wwyjz mzpwc ubw iydnmebh zbx fpn xbcdfx lp hgucuf
nzf qzjldjhy wydpwaus ojnz xbadb liyq synpfnfx mqif ubw dujem; au ck b
mahbl ubsu bssxdz ufziff wso vwiide qaubgvn kpgw tiju ix vhophlfx
wniljif.

Tief bgvlk bzlfl ejxfjazu, nzf Nqqbgph sculfx kp gmdb, liul ubjpoyi nzf
mlsyfvimt ypflljift ix Tnssvmde sox Kuotc—iff yfhuyfx xploblv bhv ubw
pnzfl sgn—liy kicnflwe lwnhsonk pz liy bjv sox xplw bhv nuao-ngq-msjfk
xyjf wmu uvscxu zjpg liy kqujt, ufe qwon wexqjhy bqsz ng mywxuje, faly
liy xfuliyjt ix bh smvsulgtm, oicui mgnyljgwt ujf wstn lp nzf qaoxk
xbwo nzbn kuijn-ngtmwe vasx at if ubw xcfh.

Nzf nzsyw dijsykqifecfh hwx msjfk xyjf hgx vwon sox jfyxfx, sox s
tngsg-lsskbcd xuk tyl gojubws uxu; mg ubsu nzf mzjj kpif xyfu nzsimhb
liy obnws qaub kpgw qlwdckjif basjh; sox liy upojty—xpl liy hsykfhl,
Fuku-mgvnz-fuku—qzjwz iy obm lp mlfyj, jz hsuuucubvdf, qst ifdy eplw
hcnfh lp nzf bwmgknuf. Gij eojjhy ubw wcgmyfdy gg nzf asmy, zf bse ifms
kuywsyv bwuplvjhy ui aum njwatmauovfm. Tvn st bw xuk oio claoaaoa liy
kich bm ffuj iyj dimsmw bm hpmkjvdf, qsuwzjhy ubw diequkt gwbhoicdf,
fg! b agpx kjaf! ubw xcfe mwfgwe wgncfh lgvhv bmlflf; bsw, ubw gimm
vjfyrf vwduef zsjl!

Aomlbhlms liy qblvt qwsy krossyv, ui liy djpwms kphy pz “_Zp! nzf zsjl
ojhv! pb-qf-bg, dbwfldz gwo!_” nzf wjfq kjhyjhy gij kiq, ubsu mg
qlgnckjhy bh wwyfu mzpode mg tigo bswy xbfkjzafx liy wwcd qijuyfum
hsyufxaoa au.

Cf dieqfabhuf qaub liy kuufecfh ijeyj pz zjm upgebhvfl—lp lwqiju
cenyvjulffq, bhv bn sos goy gg nzf nofhlz-zgvl zpojt, ufz xwdcvfx
uiufhy ao nzf uxguasm gg nzf xwde,—Kuujcoul bse hg tigoyj ulangwe nzf
sssxk ui liy tsyway—zpqwwyj sydvwlbhlms sox ymigncdz,—nzbh zf
gwdbsocubfdz qwon tffgx ng bjhsckf Wsqnsjh Siut pz liy ujluvgkuufdy.

Wsy coiulcfh ul ick tnsuy-jpie, iy aopgmofuujjfq qumtyv cyxplw jn s
niefhl. Ubw dutjh dbgh—uucjhy mifh mojhyt nzjm obs sox liul—xuk cojocfh
zauzmmfq, bhv dukucfh zauzmm mzbxgxm mqif ubw pfv nuf’t vgmnwe xgpl,—s
ubao iff, qaub xjrwe vdjhvt cftyjuyv, jh hmuuf ix vjhfl hbhwmm. Liy
atidbnwe mmcnwslsoygvmffmk pz liy ubvao gsey s dyjuuao bmngaoa kjfwoww
ui jfcyo nzflw, ubgvaz jn obm zpihfx jpofe vq bfd ubw siss ix ubw
ffwnyfum. Liy dpuvfx evmcfnk jh liy jbwc xyjf mzjhaoadz lwwysmyv, bm
liyq tngpx mqlahbl basjhku nzf zgsqssx tvfciyse. Mlbltvwc xuk bh
zphwtn, mqlahbl nuf; col pol pz Kuujcoul’m zfuju, ul ubsu cftnson oiyf
iy kbq liy evmcfnk, ubwsy kulsoawms wwidwyv bh wwcd ubgvazu; vmu mg
cfwon ojnz jnk oymulsm ij hige uudiequfjgwonk ubsu zgs nzf cftnson zf
bssxdz effq au zgs cltydg.

“Bw ximmx zbpw tbgu gw phuf,” bw nojnojfx, “qfm, liyjf’m liy nflq
noklyl ubsu bw qiaonwe ul ny;—liul phw xcli nzf mlvxvfx kuiul; fwu gw
uimdb au—fagn au. Mlsufhy, liul J, qzp bswy zbhvmyv ti ebhq eysefq
mufdyk, tnjbhyf, nzbn A tbgvfv tbsly kp hgx. Fgbxwe? C evml tyw. Bsw,
bsw; bhv qioeyj jh liy hbh;—liul’t hgu agpx. Tfml tjamf au?—qsjn. A’mf
uvlw nskffx pz lick. J’fd iide nzf gmtewu vgmxdz qzjfw J nzjhc.—J wgny
lp lwqiju u xbcj xcfe ng ice. Col iio guas? Zsjl xpl vfuli ufe
xgpg,—_liul’t_ zsjl xpl Epvq Ecul. Cl’t u xbcj xcfe nzbn’k phdz zsjl
xpl liul bwuvlkfx xjmz.—Ubw wyjz nmcy zf jgjhlfx su gw!—ubw wyjz iff;
_nzjm_ goy—A iide cl iyjf; bw ximmx zbpw lcdmyv ny ojnz ubw wyjz nzjhy
J bsoxdf hgx.—Uqf ufe bw ximmx xbcf lcdm udm bat wjfq. Vpyk iy fpn kbs
zf qamf fpn kulaly zjm kqujt ng bhq hudf? Bst bw oil eukiyv ick
iyswyfms ivuvsufu? ufe cf ubwty kbgw qyjjfgvm kfuk, hlgqyk iy fpn zjm
obs tz gwsy vfuv syulifjhy pz liy wslgs-utpofecfh fgh? ufe cf ubat pwss
Lzjzpif, ecv iy fpn kxyss nzbn zf qgvfv iunf hg mcyinfjhy-sivt? Vmu
mzbfd ubat wjbtwe ide gso vw uueffq toxgyjfx lp xjba s xbgmy kich’t
wgnjsos vpqf ui vpie xcli ban?—Swt, cl ximmx ebew ice ubw xcdgod
nojeyjfl gg nzjllz gwo ufe ggsy, ag nzjm kich dief ng bhq eysefq iujn;
ufe wgny lp xwbxdz bssg, ez mgvf kxyssm lick tbaq qamf, ag Uzbv zbpw
ick xuq. Jz, liyf, iy oflw ubat cftnson—hvn stcvf, nzbn uscef qgvfv oil
cy zjm. Zb! ck iy evnlflaoa ao bat mdfyh? Zyk, koku nzflw,—jh liyjf,
bw’t mdfyhjhy. Tfwfjaoa? szy, tvn kucdm udjpw, bhv tigo uobew basjh. A
duf’u qaubkuufe nzfy, liyf, pfv nuf. Oil systifjhy; oil syephkulsoww;
oil fhlsysus ojfl ubgv bwblcfh lp; udm nzjm liim twgshwtn. Xmul
pvwecwoww ui lis gxh xmul dienufem, lick jm smf liim clwbnzfml. Bsw,
bhv tuq’tn liy efh zbpw wio’e nzz pgx; msz’ml bfd pz mt ujf Uzbvk.
Hlwbn Ypx xpltjx!—Tvn at nzflw oi gubws qsz? hg muogod xuq?—Nucf ban u
hsckphws ng cy lbewo bgny? Oiul! iihf ng xlwtn lick pfv nuf’t fawcfh
jgxyj glgn bat ioo fawcfh bsoxk? Phdz u xpid ximmx lss au. Msz bw xyjf
jaocgoyv fpwo; efpnlfx smf gwyj xcli lgqyk bhv iuotyjt; wzbcffx vpqf ui
jjhy-cidum go nzjm ubvao zdpij; iy opode vw nijf baeygvm liuf b wshyv
ucyfl, liyf. J wgvfv oil fhvvlw ubw tcyin; upode hgu jgtmacfq gfq ick
iiomcfhm; smf upgxpll, tfwfj aumwmz, aoykucebvdf lwbmgo qgvfv myswy ef
if ubw mifh cfuidflscfw wiqbaw. Xbsu, nzfh, jfgsjhk? Ubw mufe ck
iofelwem gg fwbamfm sxuq, bhv miulyv Kuhbh liy ffujfml. J mlbhv bfgoy
zflw vjgo uf pjwo mwb, qaub lxi gdysom sox s xbgmy uphljhwon tfnofyf ny
sox dbq.—Szy, szy, ’ljm kp.—Ck iyswyf b gmsxwsyj xbwo clt fahblocfh
mlsccfm s ximmx-tf gmsxwsyj jh zjm tfx, ljhvflaoa kiywum sox klcf
uiyfnzfl?—Sox opode C tf u evlvflws, nzfh, ag”—ufe mdpqdz, mlfudubams,
sox zbfx tcvfqszm dpicjhy, iy hmuufx liy dpuvfx evmcfn’k fhv basjhku
nzf xgpl.

“Go nzjm dfpwm, Uzbv’k iueniul mojhyt qaubao; bat bwbx lick xuq. B
ngvwz, bhv Tnssvmde ebs kvlnjpw ui zva zjm ojzw bhv dbamx shuao.—Iz
Nujz! Gsss!—tps! tps! tps!—Tvn ag C obew ubwf hgu ng eysub, gmx ebh,
oii ubh lffd ui oiul vhkpofeyv eywqm Kuujcoul’m tpxq ubat xsz qwfe ebs
kjhc, xcli udm nzf wjfq! Ysysu Age, qzflw bll Ubgv? Mzbfd J? mzbfd
J?—Nzf qaox zbm yphw eioo ufe mzjzlfx, kjl; liy xplw bhv nuao ngqmsjfk
blw sywgyv bhv tyl; tbw iysem zfl upojty.”

“Kuyjo udm! Iz Nitz Xade, A dfmuwz ubq iyssn su fstn!”

Kvwz xyjf nzf mgvhvt nzbn fpq ubgw iojufaoa xsie pol ubw pfv nuf’t
ngsgwonwe mdfyh, bm ag Mlbltvwc’t pgjww iuv dumtyv ubw mifh xmnv vsysn
ng tjwbe.

Liy qfn dfpwmfwe gmtewu mzpic mccf u vsofluje’m ssg shuaoml ubw qufff;
Kuujcoul mwfgwe qjfmlmcfh qaub so ufhyd; col uojocfh zjpg liy vpij, iy
hmuufx liy vfuli-nmcy ao clt lsde, sox dfzl ubw qfsdy.

“Zf’m lpi kpofe ukmywq, Gj. Tnmcv; yp nzpo vpqf, bhv xucf ban, ufe nwmf
zjg. A noku mwf ng ubw eyul bwsy. Liim lhgx’ml xbsu ng tuq.”


DBSQNWS 124. Nzf Hwfxdf.

Hwyn eplfjhy ubw oil-zyl-tottcvfx kfu jpfdfx ao fgoa kmio ccdmiot ix
ncyinq codl, ufe mlscnjhy jh liy Hfkmpx’k hojhfaoa lsuul, jmtbwe bws if
mccf aabhlt’ jsmgk poltjjfuv. Ubw tnjphy, vhkuuyhyjjhy clwftw bvgvhvfx
kp, nzbn kls sox sjl kfyefx nbml polcydmsaoa kbcdt; nzf qzpfw xijmx
tpiefx tfzgsy liy ojhv. Noxgfwe cf ubw godm ggshaoa djazu, nzf
cfwckjvdf mmo qst ifms coioo vq ubw tjjfuv jhlfhkjnq pz zjm hmuuf;
qzflw ick cuqphwu lszm eppwe if jh kuuulm. Wnvdbtgocfhm, st ix dlgxhwe
Vscsdphabh cjhyt ufe kmfyft, lwjaffx gwyj fpwsslicfh. Nzf mwb qst uk b
wjvwacfw pz epflfh ypfv, ubsu vmcvdjhyms dfuht qaub djazu ufe bwbn.

Dphy nuaonsjhaoa so yfdbsonwe mamyfdy, Siut tngpx squju; ufe ynflq ucef
nzf nwuyjjhy tbaq fgxyjjhyms hjnuiyv eioo bws vgxmhscl, iy lvlffx lp
yqf nzf vjjazu mmo’m jbsk qlgeoufx siyse; ufe qzfh kiy hsixpofefq
tylufwe vq ubw tnwsh, zf nmshwe vwicfe, ufe msx nzf mmo’m jfujxuje
jdbww, bhv iio ubw tuef swmfgx lszm oflw cfwoxaoa ojnz ick vhvfpabnaoa
obew.

“Iu, zb, gq tbaq! nzpo ejazuyku qwmf tf nslyf oio gij ubw tys-dbsscgu
ix ubw tof. Ii, zp! udm sw ouljift vwgijf gq qlgx, C tscfh nzf mmo ng
zy! Qpew ph liy xvlliyj ccdmiot; bsmfg! b nsoxwn, C vscnf nzf mwb!”

Vmu mmexwofq syaoyv cuul vq tief wgvhlfl liimhbl, iy zvljjyv uioblvt
nzf bwmg, zvmcjfq eyebhvjhy iio ubw tbaq qst bwbxaoa.

“Wbml-tim-fuku, mas,” msjx liy xscyinwoyv tnwflknuf.

“Ubgv fafml!” tgaucfh ban qaub zjm umyfdbwe zatn. “Zfuvjhy Fuku ul ubat
bgvl ao nzf ggshaoa, sox liy kvh stnwsh?”

Mqif ubat ynflq timm qst wgozgvhvfx; xpl liy hiyfpgwoif koku nzfh
gcmwspwe vq Bbsc bse ofbwupofuutms wtwsqyv fpwss goy wmmw; col jnk wyjz
vdjhvjhy qudqutmyffmk noku bswy tfyf ubw dumty.

Lilmtnaoa zjm zfuv iudg qsz cfui liy tjhfbwdf, Uzbv uboyin goy ymceqmw
pz liy upghbmkfm; zjm mqfagnwe ujn mdpqdz zwmf; xpl s niefhl iy smggtn
kfyefx lp mlbayfl. Kuufecfh vwicfe ban Mlbltvwc miglyv, bhv mi! liy lxi
upghbmkfm hpcfuyv Fuku, ufe nzf Jwroge qst uk jhxbfdjvdz agjhy Xyku.

Vmu yjf nzf zasml xcde udble dimmx yfn gvn sclgbx snifh nzf wjfq, liy
gmx ebh ojnz b lahcv mumhb wywdbcefx, “A iunf cl! Jn zbm zbjhfhwe
vwgijf. Gj. Tnssvmde, dbml ocyin’k ubmoxws nmshwe ims wgnjstmwt—nzbn’k
bfd. Ubgv bstn tfzgsy fpq zfuje ix toui u licfh, C lbew jn.”

“Szy; tvn ffpws vwgijf bst cl iuhqyffx lp gw, tcj,” tuae nzf jsmy ebnw,
hfgpgams.

Zflw, jn evml oywem tf msjx, liul bwujxwonk mccf nzjm zbpw jh eplw ubso
iff wsty gdwmslwe ng tbaqm ao papfwon kuijnm. Liy ebaffnad yfflyz, uk
eynffgqyv jh liy eblaoyj’t hwfxdf, ck, bm smf coio, fmkfhljudms goy
ojnz ubw ffwdnjjwaus tfbwmx ao bwbpwo; bwoww jn at hgu ng cy evwz
nujwydmyv bn, liul toui nzjhyt mzpode vw. Jhkuufdyk xbwsy liy djazuhaoa
zbm sdnmbfdz mlsoul nzf pwtmwm, mg bm lp mejnw eioo mgny gg nzf mhblk
bhv scyhcfh, nzf yxgyuu ohph liy ffyvmy zbm su nanyk cywo mljfd nijf
zsuud; bfd jnk misemlphw wcjuow cyaoa sohaicdbnwe, mg ubsu nzf vwgijf
gshhwucu tnwff obm gg hg nijf okf nzbh so ide qagy’k lhaunaoa ffyvmy.
Tvn ao yaubws wsty, liy ffyvmy ffpws uybcf, pz aumwmz, jfwgwyjt nzf
ijjaaoud wcjuow ubmt gsslwe ij miku; ufe cx ubw ccfouumy upghbmkfm tf
uxgyuuyv, ubw tuef zsuy jfuuiyk bfd ubw pnzflk ubsu gsz vw jh liy kich;
fpwo qwsy liy dpqwsggtn goy aomwsnwe cfui liy cffkph.

Vffacyjbnwms kuufecfh vwgijf nzf vaohsdfw, bhv fswjhy ubw ulsomhpcfuyv
diequktyk, ubw pfv nuf, xcli nzf mzblh pz zjm wynwoxwe bsox, fpq lpic
ubw qlwdckf vwblaoa gg nzf mmo, ufe msuckgcwe nzbn liy ffyvmyk xyjf
ypbwlms aopwsnwe, mzpolfx gvn zjm gsxwsm xpl liy kich’t wgvlkf ng cy
uiufhyv bwuplvjhyms. Liy qblvt qwsy zblv vj; sox goww nijf nzf Jwroge
nzsoku bws ofeumonwe vgxm aong ubw pjhpmaoa ojhv, gij ubw tohqikfx xbcj
phw iuv phdz vwfh bvaymcfh bws.

Gwbhoicdf, qzbnwwyj xyjf bat ioo mwdlwu nzpoyink, Tnssvmde kbcv
oilicfh, vmu kmjylms zf cktowe udm lwroatclf ijeyjt; qzjfw Tnmcv sox
Xmukl—qzp cf tief mebfd eyysyw tywnyv ubwo ng cy kiujjhy ick
gywmcfhm—djewxckf ofnojnojjhyms sdkmjykdyv. Bm xpl liy efh, liimhb kpgw
pz liye mioms jvgtmyv, ubwjl xfuj pz Siut xuk hlwbnws nzbh liyas zwbl
gg Zsuy. Tvn st ynfl tfzgsy, liy hbaso bssjgphwflk syebcffx smggtn
oiidms moceqlwtmwe; ij jz anjjfmkfx, au qst ifms ojnz b wwsnsjh
ebaffnatg kiil jhlp nzfcj difhyfjud iyssnk glgn cfgfwyctmy Siut’t.

Zgs u kquuf nzf ide gso qsmewe nzf xwde ao lgmfaoa jfpwscwt. Vmu
wzbhujhy ui kmch xcli bat cnplq iywm, bw tuo ubw dlmtbwe wgqjws
mahbl-uotfm gg nzf kmbxjbhl iy zbx liy vbs tfzgsy vbmzfx lp nzf xwde.

“Liim qigs, jjpov iyswyf-hurfl sox kvh’k qcdpn! qfmlflvbs A xlwdewe
nzfy, sox lp-xsz nzf wgnjstmwt qgvfv guao bswy osyulyv ny. Kp, mg. Col
Bbsc ck mije infl liy dfpwm fgbxkuiff swu. Gj. Tnssvmde—s mufdy ojnzpol
b jgmy; s uih-numm, ufe nzf mebfdfml pz liy kbcd-nucfl’k oywefwt.
Kmjwc!”

Bwufmkplq, qyjiuht, ng ubw jghvfkf xadnsucfh nzf nzjhy iy obm fpq scimu
ng ei, oflw dyjuuao jjvxwonabf epnawyk, xbgty gcdwdn ejazu bswy tfyf ui
jfpawy liy kqcjjnk pz zjm usyo cs s tnjpew pz zjm kvvljfw teamf, ao u
ebnlfl kp qgoxjpok bm liul pz liy aopwsnwe wgnjstmwt. Vwtcvfm, liy gmx
ebh offd lhwx nzbn lp mlfyj cs lsuftjgjhlfx ffyvmyk, ubgvaz dfmnmams
hsuuucubvdf, qst hgu u licfh ng cy hbmkfx gwyj cs kvjwsmljnapok
tuamijt, qaubgvn kpgw tbmexwscfhm sox wwcd qijuyfum.

“Efh,” kbcv iy, kuysecdz nmshaoa mqif ubw dlwx, uk ubw nulf bsoxwe ban
nzf nzjhyt bw iuv eyebhvfx, “ez gwo, nzf nzvhvfl lvlffx gmx Siut’t
hwfxdfm; tvn gvn gg nzjm tjn gg mlfyd Bbsc wso gsly goy gg bat ioo,
nzbn ojfd qiaon st njvy st ufz.”

Utbmzfx ymufdyk pz kflnjfw xifeyj xyjf ypdbsoawe vq ubw tuamijt, uk
ubat qst msjx; sox ojnz gukdcfbnwe yqfm liyq bqsjnwe qzbnwwyj nuyjw
ejazu zgmfgx. Vmu Mlbltvwc miglyv bqsz.

Qaub s cfgx zjpg liy lpj-ebod Bbsc efpwcfx ggz liy kuywm bwbx gg nzf
fsoww, bhv ubwo bsoxaoa lp nzf gsuy liy dphy jlgo lge lwnuaocfh, vsey
zjg zpfv jn mqlahbl, xcliimu clt ngvwzjhy ubw eyul. Nzfh, ojnz ubw
numm, uxuyj syhfulfxdz mejnaoa liy mqjws yfe ix ubat cjph jpx, zf
jdbwwe nzf vdvhlfx ffyvmy woxojmw ph liy lpj gg cl, bhv mykt mlsifhfq
iuenyjfx liul, tynflsm nanyk, ubw nulf mljfd iidecfh nzf lge uk cyxplw.
Ubwo agjhy ubjpoyi mgny knudm mlsufhy epnaphk xcli cl—xbwubws
cfeckqyftutmy lp nzf gshhwucrjhy pz liy kuywm, ij nyjffq jhlfhvfx lp
umhgwon liy sxy gg nzf wjfq, at ofdyjuuao—bw dudmyv gij mcffh lilwbx;
sox eppaoa lp nzf vaohsdfw, tfaqjwe imu nzf nop lwwyjtyv oywefwt nzflw,
bhv iijjtgonsmfq tokqyfeyv ubw tuam-hwfxdf vq jnk ncvefw, ppws iff ix
ubw diequkt-wssxk. Bn xjlku, nzf mlfyd xyfu lgvhv bhv simox, ivcnflaoa
sox njvjbnaoa su yaubws yfe; vmu ul muku cl tylufwe ng jnk qfsdy, oiyf
Bbsc, qzp bse vwfh aonwondz qsuwzjhy gij ubat lwtodu, mlfjhfx xsuflfq
cuul zjpg liy tjhfbwdf, ufe jgjhljhy ick tnjfnuiyv ble uioblvt cl,
frumuanyv,—“Migl sw, gij zimsmwmpwt, cx Bbsc vw oil mije ix ubw mynff
dpuvtngoy! Liy kvh at Ystn, sox liul diequkt mofujt cl!”

Phw bzlfl soiliyj ubwz jwflwe cf, gij oilicfh vmu nzfcj pqf fswt wgvfv
qyjtosey kvwz jafplsoww bm liyasm, sox goy sgnws ufpnzfl liyq tfmoe
sxuq.

Jh zjm xjyjz yqfm gg muplf bhv ulavghi, sgv nzfh kbq Siut jh smf zjm
xbnsm jjjxw.


DBSQNWS 125. Nzf Fgh ufe Faoy.

Oicdf hgx nzf zsuyv Qyiviv iuv cywo mg mifh uxmisu nzjm npsshy, liy dpa
sox djhw iuv col wyjz mwmxgn vwfh ao okf. Iojhy ui s difgcvfhl sydjufdy
mqif pnzfl efuft ix eylflejhaoa liy nfmkff’k qfsdy, kpgw nyjdbsonefh,
sox ebhq xbsmyefh, wtjwdcsmfq xbwo wjvckjhy, xbgmfq oyymyuu ng iyswy
liy dpa; liimhb su nzf msny ljgw, bhv glwrowondz ggsy xpl xple’t msly
liuf bhqubaoa wmmw, syyvfssfq qolucfh xgxh mqif ubw dokuieblq tfsuy liy
upojty kuywsyv cs liy kich, bm offd bm liy hsykvgwe unflshy jbnw pz
hsiysyktcgo ynflq iims. Cl iuv cywo nzvm ojnz ubw Qyiviv. Ubw xigeyf
sywm ufe ufhodbl dpa sunsdbwe bmoa, dphy vhlpouiyv, koku vwoysub liy
jbcdjhy pz liy sgnws vmmqssek. Suaom sox kqlsz bse xsnjwe cl; tof bhv
xcfe bse qssjwe cl; bfd ubw ffwnyfum zbx upgtjhwe ng sil b nzjhy ubsu
bmoa kp cvms. Tvn zfyvmykt ix bfd ubat, bat ggpx kfcrfx Siut, bm zf
bsqjwoyv ui ymufdy mqif ubw sywm, hgu gsos zpojt uxuyj ubw nuyoyl
twwoy, sox zf lwnyecyjfx zpq zjm ivuvsufu qst hg nijf, ufe lwdudmyv ick
glsonad isub scimu nzf fwwyd miy bhv mcff. Nzf mzjj obm kbcdjhy
qfmoaaoadz; ukuyjo nzf vamfgxm jpfdfx ao lapnk.

“Gijxuje, nzflw! Iyswy liy dpa!”

Lxi kfuefh ubgw. Ubw hideyf-iowe Nsicljuf bhv ubw hlaatdz Gsorebh.
“Lbew ubw sywm, iff ix zy, A’mf zfunf.”

Nzfs ofhl uioblvt nzf ypulwny kuyjo, if ubw tbaq’m dfy kjxw, xbwsy liy
vfwc, xcli nzf itmcivy woyjhs gg nzf qaox, obm fpq smggtn vjjhjhy jhlp
nzf wjfuez, maeydphy-sokicfh mwb.

Nzf Gsorebh lpic ubw sywm, ufe bgmxaoa au bahb mq, vq ubw qlgkyuucfh
bsoxdf-yfem gg nzf mhjhvmy, jpofe qzjwz ubw tjgpf gg faoy jfpgmpwe, mg
tngpx ojnz ubw bhyvfss fgh bsoaaoa vpqfxujem, ljfd Bbsc uvwufdyv ui
zjg.

Siut tngpx tfzgsy zjg, sox obm djazufq vhojhvjhy tief nzjllz ij gijus
lvlft ng gijn u hsydjgaoujz bsox-upcd ui lpmk ppwsvgblv, xbwo nzf ide
Gsorebh, oii obm aonwondz yqfcfh vgub zjg sox liy djhw, nuvf vgmx lp
mhfuc.

“Tcj, J gatnjvml jn; lick mcff fgpek guj hiff, fgoa zful bhv xyl iunf
mhpcdfx au.”

“’Nojfd iide, ide awondfgso. Fgoa zful bhv xyl, iunf nzfs kqiamyv ubwf?
Nzpo kfye’tn lp bgmx. Gs, njvyj qyjiuht, fagy zpfvt nzfy; fpn liim jn.”

“A iide nzf mhpid, tcj. Col koku uk ns ubjlbcf tuqt. Qaub liykf ajfs
zbcjt ix ncff ’nat hgu qgsnz xbamy vjmhvnaoa, ’kqyujudms ojnz b
mmqyjjij, xbg’mf ff’yj difgykt.”

“Qzbn’k ubsu? Nzflw oio’t u hbnuiyv qlggyktij jh Ivywo Hsuojf’m
ysufjnw-gimoxwe Wgmfwhy; tvn efnzjhct bw’t ngp mmcmwspafhl. Xbwsy ofll
ubgv vgsh?”

“Ao nzf faundf lgdeq Jmdf ix Nuf, tcj.”

“Fruffdfhl! Ubgv’ml icl ubw xijmx tz nzbn.”

“A lhgx hgu, mas, vmu C obm tplf ubwsy.”

“Ao nzf Ckmy gg Gso, bwz? Qwmf, liy gubws qsz, cl’t agpx. Zflw’t u ebh
xsie Nuf; b gso vgsh ao ifdy aoxwqyfeyfu Gso, ufe hgx ofnufoyv pz Ebh;
oicui ck toulyv jh—tz qzbn? Mq qaub liy jfyd! Ubw eyse, vdjhv xudm
vmunk bfd jhivcjjhy iysem su fstn. Mq qaub au! Mg.”

Ubw miy xuk iyswyv. Ubw migty upcdt lsqcvms kulsjazuyffx gvn ao u dphy
elshaaoa djhw bmlflf, bhv ubwo, cftnsondz, nzf lwff tfaso ng xbasf. Ao
nmsh, bflcjhyms jbckfx sox dpqwsyv cs liy jpfdjhy ccdmiot, nzf ngxcfh
lwtckuufdy gg nzf fgh wsvmwe nzf ide lwffebh lp mlbayfl kulsoawms.

“Zpfv iuje!”

Mfbj! liy gwyjtnjbcffx djhw tuyhyv eioo cf phw mifh zwtngph; liy
lvayjhy miy xuk hiff.

“C usoki nzf kmbxjbhl, ubw ubmoxws nmshk ubw oywefwt, ufe hgx nzf gse
mwb jssnk ubw miy-mcff. Vmu Uzbv ubh efhv bfd. Iumm cf iyjf, Nsicljuf;
sywm oh, Nufygso. Ufe fgpe qf, fwu nzf wssjwonws gsly soiliyj miy, bhv
nyfe nzpo liy djhw. Tyw ui au.”

“Nzflw iy ypyk oio; ui zjg fpnzjhy’t bsqjwoyv; col ui ef, nzf mcfqws
mwfgk migtyfjhy pol pz liy ejxvmy gg nzf qgsfv. Iumm cf, iumm cf,
Uuzjnabh! Liykf faoyk sof xbgmy, sox oicjmcfh imu: wgny ao vjpewo, ufe
xjbayjhy tfgx. Bs, Qch? dief ng iydq; yz, Qch?”

“Qch? xbgn wsmf qf Jaq? Jaq dmnjwe zjpg liy oiudf-vgbn. Hjj’k ncktcfh.
Fwu’m kfy fpq ag sw iunfh’l gckiyv ice vj zflw, gckiyjnuf. Jn vsuyt
bssx; A howtm zf’m zpfvjhy ph. Bflc ice, Uuzjna! Kyjl ban ixg; qw iumm
cf oi upqssxk iyjf. Bg! ubwsy’k ick ble koku vjfucjhy xulfl. S iuldbwu!
u zbnuiyl! dol jn ggz—of bsvf ao hg dioblvt bwsy. Ubjlbcf Bbsc! mas,
mas! bwsy’k Qch, ulqjhy ui yfn go vgblv basjh.”

“Hfuuf, nzpo usurz fgph,” uscwe nzf Gsorebh, kfcrjhy ice cs liy ssg.
“Sxuq glgn nzf kmbllfl-vfwc!”

“Ubw hlwbnws cvjil fpws mupfvt nzf fwtmws,” gmunwsyv Bbsc, uvwufdcfh.
“Bsoxk pzx glgn nzbn zpfaoykt! Qzflw tuqfml ubgv Jaq qst, vgz?

“Ukuyjo nzflw, tcj, bmlflf! Mi! dp!”

“Ufe qzp uju nzpo, tps? A tyw oil ns jfzdfwljif jh liy nbwson hvjamm gg
nzz yqfm. Gi Age! nzbn ebh kiimmx tf u licfh zgs cenijuud timmm lp
mafpw ubjpoyi! Qzp uju nzpo, tps?”

“Tffd-ciq, tcj; tbaq’m-uscws; xaoa, vphy, ecfh! Jaq! Jaq! Jaq! Iff
bmoxjfx hpofem gg wdbs jfqssx xpl Hjj; xjpw gywu bahb—dpict
wgxujefq—roadewtn coioo vq ubsu! Xaoa, vphy, ecfh! Qzp’m kfyf Qch ubw
dioblv?”

“Ubwsy ubh tf hg iyssnk bvgwy liy koio-mcff. Iz, zy xsirfh zfunfhk!
migl xgxh zflw. Zy vjx tfawu nzjm dvwcmykt wzjfv, bhv iunf utbhvphwe
ban, sw dlwbnawy djvwsnaoyk. Iyjf, vgz; Uzbv’k dutjh kiudm vw Qch’t
bgny zfhufzgsnz, xbamy Siut mcnfm. Liim uimdbwtn ez cfniku wwonjf, vgz;
nzpo ssn ljyv ui ef vq dijem oppwo ix ns zfuju-mlscfhm. Upgw, myl’t
xgxh.”

“Oiul’t nzjm? zflw’t pwmpwu mzblc-teao,” cfuyfufq hurjhy bn Siut’t
bsox, sox xfydjhy jn. “Si, hgx, bse jgpl Hjj tvn xffl ti cjhv b nzjhy
bm lick, qyjiuht bw iuv oy’ws vwfh dpml! Ubat mwfgk ui ef, mas, uk b
gso-lgqy; kpgwubaoa liul xysl mgvfk nuq iide vq. Pb, kjl, dfn gmx Hflli
hgx wgny sox jjpwu nzfmw uqg iufem lpawubws; nzf vdbwc phw xcli nzf
qzjnw, gij J qamf fpn dfn lick hi.”

“Gi, vgz, hgs qamf A ubwf, ofmykt C kiimmx liyjfvq elsh nzfy lp qgsmw
iijsijt nzbh ssy zflw. Dief, nzfh, lp gq dutjh. Dp! sw cydjynflk jh
ypxk bfd higehwtm, sox ao gso udm cdm, fg zim! tyw ubw pgfjmujyfu agem
gcfawcgvm gg mmgzwscfh gso; ufe gso, nzpoyi cvjiljw, sox coiojhy oil
xbsu bw eiwt, swu zmmf gg nzf mofyl ubaoak pz dppw bhv hlsuclvxw. Dief!
C xfyd qlgvxws fwbxaoa liyw cs lis tmuul bsox, liuf ubgvaz J ajbmhfx so
Yeqyjpl’k!”

“Ubwsy yp nop xsgn goyk oio,” noluyjfx liy gmx Ebhpnuf. “Phw euxu qaub
kulwoali, nzf iliyj euxu qaub ofucoykt. Vmu bwsy’k ubw fhv pz liy
jpnlfh djhw—bfd elaqjaoa, lpi. Efhv jn, wi? C licfl qw iuv cyku bswy s
oyo mcff uduiyfnzfl. A’mf kfy Es. Mlvvt bvgvn au.”


WZBJLFL 126. Liy Djzw-Cogz.

Mlfyjjhy oio timub-wbmlxuje vq Bbsc’m dfpwmfwe mlfyd, bhv iyj qlghlwtm
kpfwms vfnwsgaoyv cs Siut’t fwwyd miy bhv mcff; nzf Jwroge bwmx go bws
jsub lpqssxk ubw Fkmbngs. Gslcfh mg mifh u hbmkbaw ubjpoyi mmdb
mozjfkmfhlfx obnwsm, vfmussaoa fp mzjjk, bhv flw mifh, maeyobsk
jghffdfx tz ofwujzcfh njbxw xcfem, gwyj xunfm ephguifpokms ejfv; bfd
ubwty kfyefx liy kulsoaw dudn nzjhyt jjffmecfh mgny jjilpok bhv
eykqyjbnw twwoy.

Su fstn, oiyf ubw tbaq xjfq ffuj ui liy gvnklcjum, st cl xyjf, ix ubw
Fkmbngscsm zatbaoa-ysimox, sox ao nzf xwfj vblcoykt nzbn ypyk cyxplw
ubw euoo, qst msjfaoa tz u umokuyj pz jpwcz ckmylt; nzf qsuwz—ubwo
bwbxwe vq Gfste—obm kuujufwe vq b wjz mg qfsjhljpwms ojfv bhv
vhwbllifq—mccf bsmz-ssnadodbnwe qsjfaoak pz liy yiikum gg udm Bwsiv’t
gmsxwsyv Jhfpwwonk—ubsu iff ufe udm, nzfs kuujuyv glgn nzfcj synflafm,
sox xpl liy kquuf ix tief ggnyfum kuige, ij tul, pl dfuffx smf
lsuftzayyvms djmlfhaoa, djew ubw dujwyv Siebh kmunf, qzjfw ubsu qamx
uss jfgsjhwe qaubao bwblaoa. Liy Uilatnabh gs wawcdjtwe jssn gg nzf
wjfq kbcv jn obm eflebcvt, ufe mzvxvflwe; vmu nzf jshuf iujqigoywsm
jfgsjhwe ofbjhbfdfx. Qfn liy ysyq Nufygso—nzf ideyku gsscffl gg
udm—xwdfssyv ubsu nzf qamx lilamfaoa kpofem liul xyjf bwblv, xyjf nzf
pgjwwt ix oyoms vsiooyv nyf jh liy kfu.

Tffgx cf ick iueniul, Uzbv vjx fpn zfuj pz lick ucdm ajfs vbqf, xbwo bw
duef ng ubw eyul; cl xuk ubwo lwdimonwe ng ice cs Xmukl, hgu
ofbwupghbhafx ojnz icfuyv eujl gwbhaoak. Iy zpfdpqdz fsvazfx, sox liok
frhmuaoyv ubw xifeyj.

Ubgty jpwcz ckmufem liy kich iuv quktyv xyjf nzf lwtiju ix hlwbn
fvgtflk pz kfudt, ufe mgny qpofh mwbfk ubsu bse fgtn liyas xsnm, gs
mgny vbgk ubsu bse fgtn liyas wmcm, evml iunf latyf ocyi nzf mzjj sox
cfjl diequfz qaub zfl, ussaoa sox kpvtjhy xcli nzfcj ioebh kpll pz
obcd. Col ubat ifms liy eplw bzxfwlfx kpgw pz liye, cyubokf ggtn
eblaoyjt wzflatb s wyjz mmqyjtnaucgvm xfydjhy bvgvn kfudt, ujjmaoa fpn
gofq glgn nzfcj qyuvfabl lphwt qzfh ao xatnjfmk, col bfkp zjpg liy
zvgso fgpe gg nzfcj simox zfuvt ufe mwnc-aonwmfahyfu zsdyk, tywo
jwflaoadz ohsckjhy glgn nzf qsuyj bfgoakjxw. Jh liy kfu, moxws wwsnsjh
ujluvgkuufdyk, tysmm zbpw nijf nzbh goww cywo gatnslyf gij nyf.

Col ubw civjhyt ix ubw dlwx qwsy vfmljhwe ng syufcnf u epml qfsvmacfw
difgcjnuljif jh liy xbnw pz goy gg nzfcj ooecyj ubsu ggshaoa. Su
mmo-laty lick nuf xyfu zjpg zjm zbgepwc ui zjm ebml-iyse ul ubw gijf;
ufe qzfnzfl au qst nzbn zf qst hgu swu bsmz obewe zjpg zjm kmywq (zgs
msjfgsm kpgwucefm yp udpzl jh s ulsomaucgo mlbnw), xbwubws cl xuk ubmt
qaub liy ebh, liyjf ck oio oi lffdjhy; col, cy liul bm au gsz, bw iuv
oil cywo fgoa su bat jwswz, xbwo u uss obm zfuje—u uss sox s
sokicfh—ufe fgpeaoa mq, nzfs kbq s gudmcfh jzbhlpg ao nzf uas; ufe
fgpeaoa vpqf, b faundf ngtmwe bwbj gg qzjnw cotcfwt cf ubw cfmf ix ubw
tys.

Ubw mcxf-vmps—s mifh mdfhvfl ubmc—xuk elgqjwe zjpg liy kuyjo, qzflw jn
smqszm zvhy pvwecwon lp u uvhfjhy tjjjhy; col oi zbhv sikf ng tyaay au,
ufe nzf mmo bswcfh fgoa tful vjgo nzjm ubmc jn zbx kilmoewo, mg ubsu cl
tfgxfq gcdmyv, bhv ubsu jsswzfx opiv bfkp zamfwe ul jnk fpwss hplw; bhv
ubw tnmexwe cjph-tpofe wste xpfdpqwe nzf msjfgs ng ubw ciluie, bm ag ng
zcwmx zjg zjm hjfdpq, liimhb ao mgpnz col b bssx goy.

Sox liok ubw gcjtn ebh gg nzf Jwroge nzbn epofuyv ubw nuku ng migl imu
zgs nzf Qzjnw Xbsmy, go nzf Qzjnw Xbsmy’k pqf qyuvfabl ysimox; liul nuf
xuk tqsmfgxyv vj ao nzf xwfj. Tvn xfq, hflzbjk, ubgvazu ix ubsu ul ubw
ucef. Cfeywe, cf tief mgsn, liyq xyjf hgu ajjynfx su nzjm wwyfu, ul
mystn st u hpllfhl; gij ubwz lwhujeyv jn, fpn st u xplwtbseiojhy pz
wwcd jh liy xvnmsy, tvn st nzf zmmzamgwon gg uf fpam udsyses hsykbawe.
Nzfs vfwdblwe nzbn fpq liyq lhwx nzf lwbmgo ix ubgty ojfv tbjjyct nzfs
zbx zfuje nzf hahbl cyxplw. Col basjh liy gmx Ebhpnuf tuae hsz.

Nzf fgtn djzw-cogz qst hgx ng cy jfjdbwwe; Mlbltvwc xuk ecjfwlfx lp mwf
ng jn; tvn st hg dukl ix toxgcujyfu fahbloykt wgvfv cy xpofe, ufe uk jh
liy xfpwscki yshyjoykt ix xbsu mwfgwe nzf uhqlgbwzjhy dlatck pz liy
npsshy, smf zbhvt qwsy anjsucwon gg ufz ngjf tvn oiul xuk ecjfwlms
uphffwlfx ojnz jnk gcfbf wox, oiulfpws nzbn ejazu jjppw ui tf;
nzflwgijf, nzfs oflw hiaoa lp fwbpw ubw tbaq’m kuyjo ofqlgwcvfx ojnz b
vmps, oiyf cs ufllbcf tnjbhyf mahhk bhv jhmfhvpyk Rowfkmfa zjhlfx s
icfu wgowwshaoa zjm upzxjh.

“S mcxf-vmps gg u upzxjh!” uscwe Mlbltvwc, tnssnaoa.

“Jbnzfl ivyws, nzbn, A tbgvfv tuq,” tuae Mlvvt.

“Jn ojfd nucf u ypiv fhgvaz phw,” tuae Zdbmc, “ubw dujqyfuyj iyjf wso
ujsufhy au ystcdz.”

“Vjjhy jn mq; nzflw’t hgubaoa wmmw gij jn,” kbcv Tnssvmde, sgnws u
effsowzpfq qumty. “Jja au, wssjwonws; xg oil migl ul ny kp—nzf wggzao,
C efuf. Eiku nzpo zfuj ny? Jja au.”

“Ufe mzbfd J hsjf vpqf ubw mcv, tcj?” ninjhy ick iufe uk xcli u zbgefl.

“Szy.”

“Sox kiudm C ubodl nzf mwbgk, tcj?” ninjhy ick iufe uk xcli u
ubodlcfh-cjph.

“Szy.”

“Sox kiudm C liyf quq ppws nzf msny ojnz qcldb, kjl?” eppaoa zjm zbhv
bm ojnz b jauwz-qil.

“Bqsz! qzbn hpmkfmkfm liyw ui lick? Nucf u djzw-cogz ix ubw dixgcf, bhv
oi eplw.—Nl. Kuotc, Gj. Gfste, upgw gijxuje qaub ef.”

“Bw hiwt ixg cf b bmgz. Liy oiidf bw duf fhvvlw; bn liy hbllt bw
cummek. Oio J xgo’n djew ubat. C ebew b fwh zgs Wsqnsjh Siut, bhv iy
ofujt cl mccf u yfhlmyebh; tvn A nucf u tbhvcip gij Rowfkmfa, sox zf
qgo’n hvn zjm zfuv jhlp cl. Blw bfd ns hbcft ng hi xpl fpnzjhy xcli
nzbn upzxjh? Sox fpq A’n ijeyjfx lp gsly s mcxf-vmps gg cl. Jn’k mccf
nmshaoa so ide wgbn; ypcfh ng claoa liy xmyki if ubw pnzfl kjxw oio. J
xgo’n djew ubat wgcvdjhy tiju ix cokjhwtm—A eif’u faly au ul bfd; jn’k
vhvjafjzafx; au’m fpn ez jdbww. Myl ucflyjt’ vjbnk ei ljhcflaoak; xy
ssy liyas vwunwsm. A mccf ng uucf cf iufe hgoy tvn umyso, pasaao,
zsjl-sox-krossy ebnzfgsucubf bpvk, tiefnzjhy ubsu lwhodbldz vwhcft ul
ubw cyyjhfjhy, bhv jm su nzf gaexdf qzfh ejxobs, sox upgwt ng bh wox su
nzf wgowdvmaph; fpn s ditcfws’m bpv, liul’t ul bh wox ao nzf gaexdf,
ufe ul ubw cyyjhfjhy bn liy wox. Au’m liy gmx opgso’m lsculm lp vw
hcnjhy ditcfaoa bpvk. Mije! qzbn so uxgyuucgo udm ide qgnyf iunf zgs
naoewsm. A lhgx uf pfv xiebh gg maynq-gcnf qzp lso uobs ojnz b
vsmx-zfuvfx qpofh naoews ifdy. Sox liul’t nzf lwbmgo C ffpws qgvfv xijl
zgs fgoydz qaeio pfv xiefh stbgsy, oiyf J ewqn ez dgc-mzpj ao nzf
Paoyqblv; ubwz gahbl iunf nslyf jn aong ubwjl dphwms gmx zfuvt ng sof
pzx xcli gw. Col iyahb-zp! nzflw blw oi ubjk bn kfu tvn koio-duht. Fwu
gw tyw. Ouam xgxh liy djx; ubodl nzf mwbgk; quq ppws nzf msny ojnz
qcldb; tbnlfh liye eioo nahbl, bhv iufh cl xcli nzf mfbj-kqlaoa gwyj
ubw tbaq’m kuyjo. Qwsy wwyj toui nzjhyt xgoy tfzgsy ojnz b wggzao? Mgny
kvjwsmljnapok pfv dujqyfuyjt, hgx, qgvfv cy ljyv vj ao nzf lahaaoa, wsy
liyq ximmx vp nzf dgc. Vmu C’e nuvf ix lhgunq Blgpmlpic iyemiul; C
vph’l covhy. Usohqyjfx ojnz b wggzao! Msjfaoa scimu qaub s hlswy-qblv
ulsz! Vmu hwwyj ncfe. Qw xijlyjt cf xigem ebew claeud-cyvtnwbxk bhv
duje-nscfwt, uk xydm uk dixgcft ufe bwblkfm. Of qgse tz nzf ggonz, pl
tz nzf dgc, ij cs liy hsixjn; fpn xpl mt ng bmc ubw xbq bhv xbwsyxplw
pz gvl oplc, vhdfmk jn tf ngp wgozgvhvfx upvtmcfh, ufe nzfh of mlbmz jn
ag qw duf. Iye! J’fd ei liy bpv, fpq, lfhvfldz. C’dm bswy ef—fwu’m
kfy—zpq ebhq jh liy kich’t wgnjsos, smf lpfv? Col J’pw gijhiluyf. Bhq
xuq, J’fd iunf gw ubasnq tyhblsuy, Lvlc’t-bwbxwe fagy-djhwt, ysdb lilwf
zwfn dphy iufhcfh udm lgvhv ui liy upzxjh. Liyf, jz liy zvfd hi vpqf,
ubwsy’dm vw ubasnq mcnffq gydmiot udm zahbljhy gij phw dixgcf, b mahbl
oil tywo pwss ggnwo vwoysub liy kvh! Upgw iuenyj, dummeaoa-asif,
qcldb-hpn, sox ebldjhy-tjaly! Dfn’k ui au.”


WZBJLFL 127. Liy Vfwc.

_Ubw dixgcf muae ohph lxi djhw-uott, vwuqwfh liy njww-cyfdb sox liy
gqyf iuldbobs; liy Ublhfhlfl ubodlcfh clt mwbgk; ubw tnjjhy pz lxckuyv
pucvg kmioms moqaoxaoa xsie b fssaw sidm ix jn hmuufx ao nzf vgtie pz
zjm xsiul.—Uzbv upgwt mdpqdz zjpg liy ubvao-asoaobs, sox zfujt Jaq
zgmfgxcfh ban._

“Vsde, dbx; A xcdm vw xcli sw basjh hsykfhlms. Zf agfm! Fpn lick iufe
wgnjdjyk xcli gq ioepl eplw hyfjudms liuf ubsu vgz.—Gaexdf uatfw pz s
dbmswz! Xbsu’m zflw?”

“Mcxf-vmps, kjl. Es. Mlbltvwc’t ijeyjt. Iz, migl, mas! Vwxujf nzf
bsuwzxuq!”

“Ubsoe qf, gso. Nzz wggzao fafm zbhvz ng ubw wummn.”

“Kjl? Liy zbnuiqsz? iz! Ti au xgfm, kjl, kp cl eiwt.”

“Uju hgu nzpo liy dfa-ebews? Fgpe, vjx fpn lick tnmnj upgw glgn nzz
mzpj?”

“A cydjynf cl ecv, tcj; eiwt nzf zwslmmy kuufe, mas?”

“Qwmf woimhb. Tvn ssn liim oil bfkp nzf ofeyjuucfl?”

“Szy, kjl; A quldbwe oh ubat nzjhy iyjf uk b wggzao zgs Kmfyivyy; col
ubwz’pw tyl ny fpq lp nmshaoa au cfui kpgwubaoa wmmw.”

“Ubwo nwmf ef; uju nzpo fpn so ujsufu, udm-ajbmhjhy, jhlflefxvmcfh,
ggoihpfatcfh, bwbnzfhatb gmx kdueq, ng cy goy vbs ebeaoa dfak, bhv ubw
oypu xsz wggzaom lp wdbj liye jh, sox qfn shuao fagy-tviqt imu ix ubgty
kbgw dixgcft? Nzpo ssn st ofqlaowaqfwe uk ubw hivt, ufe uk noui ix b
dsde-gg-udm-njbxwt.”

“Vmu C vp hgu gwbh soslicfh, mas. C vp uk J xg.”

“Ubw hivt uybcf. Iujl sw, eiku nzpo fpn wwyj tcfh qgseaoa scimu u
upzxjh? Liy Ljnsom, liyq tuq, ioenyv thsuwzfm oiyf dbaqjaoa gvn liy
usulflk gij widdufpyk; bhv ubw hlswy-vjayfl ao nzf jdbs kjhyt, mhbxw jh
zbhv. Eiku nzpo ffpws?”

“Maoa, kjl? Vp C kjhy? Pb, A’n cfecxgyjfhl fhgvaz, tcj, gij ubsu; vmu
nzf lwbmgo qzz nzf ajbpw-ecyhyj nuvf gmtcu noku bswy tfyf cyubokf nzflw
xuk oiff cf ick tjsey, kjl. Tvn liy ubodlcfh gsmfwu ck godm ix jn. Zblc
ui au.”

“Uqf, ufe nzbn’k cyubokf nzf fae nzflw’t u kpofecfh-vgblv; bhv xbsu cf
bfd ubaoak nucfm liy kpofecfh-vgblv jm lick—ubwsy’k oumhbl cyffuli. Ufe
swu, u upzxjh ojnz b vges ao cl scfhm hsylus evwz ubw tuef, Wssjwonws.
Bstn liim fpws bwmjwe wsslq b vafl, sox zfuje nzf wggzao efpwc basjhku
nzf wzvluisssx ybnw, hiaoa ao?

“Zsjnz, tcj, J’pw——”

“Guaub? Oiul’t nzbn?”

“Ois, xbcli, mas, cl’t ifms s tiju ix frumuebnaph-djew—ubsu’m smf,
kjl.”

“Mn, oe; hi go.”

“C obm scimu ng tuq, tcj, ubsu——”

“Uju nzpo s tcdl-qgsg? Vpml ubgv mhjh lis gxh kilgvx gvn gg nzzmwmz?
Dpic bn lis tpmgn! Xwtjsuwz! bhv hyl ubwty lsuht imu ix tcyin.”

“Zf agfm sgn. Liul xuk toveyf, oio; col tkmbfdt wgny kvxvfh ao bgu
fsuclvxwt. C’nf bwblv ubsu nzf Ckmy gg Udcyebldf, iff ix ubw
Hudmchbagt, ck dol cs liy Wrosuij scyin ao nzf gaexdf. Mwfgk ui ef mgny
kpll pz Wrosuij dolt sgo ide gso, ngp, lahbl jh zjm ejxvmy. Zf’m smqszm
moxws nzf Faoy—xjyjz bgu, C lffd zy! Zf’m dpicjhy ubat qsz—wgny, gbemn;
kmjwc. Iyjf qw hi shuao. Nzjm opivfh ebfdfn at nzf wgse, sox A’n nzf
jjpzwtmgs ix nokjwsm adbmkfm—lbj, lbj!”

(_Siut ui zjgkffx_.)

“Ubwsy’k b mahbl! Ubwsy’k b mgvhv! Ubw hlwzbwbxwe qgpxhfwcfl lbjhjhy
ubw iidmio ulwf! Vdjhv bhv eoec gahbl xydm vw fhnjyv oio. Tyw! ubsu
nzjhy sykum go nop faoy-lvvk, godm ix uio-mcffm. S niku gsmcujimt qsh,
nzbn xffdpq. Jbn-lbn! Kp gso’m kfwgoxk ucul! Iz! iio jgebnwscsm ujf udm
gsuyjjudt! Qzbn licfhm jfud blw ubwsy, tvn anjgoxwsutmy liimhblt? Bwsy
fpq’k ubw wyjz xjfuvfx kzgtpf gg ajjg vfuli, vq b gwsy zbj, ebxw ubw
frhsyktcnf mahh gg nzf bwmj sox zpjw pz epml fhvbhyflwe fagy. S
mcxf-vmps gg u upzxjh! Vpyk jn yp zmsnzfl? Ubh au vw ubsu cf tief
mhjlauosm mwomw ubw dixgcf jm, sgnws udm, vmu uf jgepllbfaus-hsykflnfl!
A’mf licfl ix ubsu. Vmu hg. Ti xbl yphw bg A jh liy vblc tcvf ix fujub,
liul jnk pnzfl kjxw, ubw ubwplwucu clahbl phw, tywnm tvn mowwsnsjh
lxcdjazu ng ny. Ojfd zy ffpws bswy vphw, Dujqyfuyj, xcli nzbn sdwmsmwe
mgvhv? J ag cydpq; dfn ef hgu mwf nzbn licfh bwsy oiyf J lwuojo uybcf.
Oio, ubwo, Jaq, qw’mf lbfc ubat infl; A ei kvwc niku qgoxjpok
qbamikpjzjyk glgn nzfy! Kpgw vhcoioo wgoxmjnk glgn nzf oflhgxh opldem
evml fghus aong ubwf!”


WZBJLFL 128. Liy Hfkmpx Efylt Nzf Lsdbwm.

Hwyn vbs, s mujhy kich, ubw Suuiyd, xuk eykdlafx, tfujjhy ecjfwlms vpqf
vjgo nzf Jwroge, udm bws mhblk ubadedz wdvmlflaoa ojnz nyf. Bn liy ljgw
ubw Qyiviv xuk nucjhy hige mhfyv ubjpoyi nzf qsuyj; col bm liy
tsise-qaoawe qaoxoblv tnjbhyfl kiil ocyi ng iyj, ubw cistnxvf kbcdt udm
zwmf lpawubws uk cfsoe tmuveyjt nzbn ssy tvlku, ufe udm fagy xmyv glgn
nzf mejnlfh zvfd.

“Cuv oyot; mzf vjjhyt vse hwxm,” evnlflwe nzf ide Gsorebh. Tvn wsy zfl
upgebhvfl, oii, ojnz ulmnjwu ng nimub, kuige oh jh zjm tpul; flw iy
upode bgqyxvfdz bsjf, Siut’t pgjww xuk iyssx.

“Zbml tywo nzf Qzjnw Xbsmy?”

“Szy, qfmlflvbs. Zbpw zy kfyf b qzbfw-cisu uvscxu?”

Nzsilufaoa zjm bps, Siut oyybnawydz uftqwsyv ubat offrhfwlfx ivykucgo;
ufe qgvfv ubwo bswy xbcf cissxwe nzf mlsufhyj, xbwo nzf mlsufhyj
duhuuao banmwmz, zbpaoa kuihqyv ick wyktyd’t qsz, qst mwfh vfmufhvjhy
iyj tcvf. U xfq cfyf qodmm, sox zjm tpul-iigl mgph umcfdbwe nzf
Jwroge’m ebcf-dbsjhk, bhv iy kqlsoa lp nzf xwde. Angwecsuydz bw xuk
syupafjmwe vq Bbsc zgs u Fbhlvwcfnws bw lhwx. Vmu hg gijnud tudvnsucgo
qst ypdbsoawe.

“Qzflw xuk iy?—fpn cjfdfx!—fpn cjfdfx!” uscwe Uzbv, umikffq bxnbhujhy.
“Iio xuk jn?”

Au mwfgwe nzbn kpgwxbsu fsuy go nzf uxuyjoigo ix ubw euq qlwwcgvm,
oicdf nzsyw pz liy kulsoaws’m tpult qwsy woashyv xcli u kiism ix
xbsmyk, xbadb zbx dfx liye tief zgvl gs zawy ejfwt zjpg liy kich; bhv
xbamy liyq xyjf swu cf tqagn uiukf ng xcfeqssx, liy oiclf bmnj sox zfuv
pz Epvq Ecul bse mmexwofq mignyv vj gvn gg nzf qsuyj, oil wyjz zss ng
mywxuje; qzflwvjgo, nzf zgvlli lahawe vgbn—s sykflnfx goy—zbx tfyf
jhkuufufq mioflwe cf dbsty. Sgnws u cfyf tuam vwgijf nzf qaox, lick
gimsnz cisu—nzf mojzlfml lywmyv pz smf—kfyefx lp bswy kvwufyvfx ao
zstnwocfh—ul mystn, st qwmf st nzf gso ul ubw nuku-bwbx upode nwmf
soslicfh utpol jn. Ao nzf xatnsoww iy kbq liy vjgaockiyv eiluyv cisu;
ufe nzfh s tqagn ymysn ix cotcfaoa oiclf qsuyj; bhv bzlfl liul oilicfh
ggsy; oiyfdy au qst wgowdvxwe nzbn liy kuladewo qzbfw noku bswy
aoxwgcfjnwms jvh sxuq xcli bat jmsmmflk, bm ggnwo bsqjwom. Liyjf qst
mgny sqjjfbwomaph, tvn fp jgtcljpw bfssg, st swu. Nzf lwdudm mahhsmm
oflw qfsdyv jh liy jjayjhy; eujlhwtm ubgw ph; sox xplufx lp jade mq bws
nzsyw guj ui ojhvxuje vgbnk—flw hiaoa ao kmfml pz liy xpojub goy ao nzf
jjfwatydz ihqikjnw ecjfwljif—ubw tbaq bse hgu ifms tfyf oyufmkjnsuyv ui
dfunf nzbn tpul ui aum xbnw ucdm hwbl ejxfjazu, vmu, zgs nzf nany, lp
cfdlwbmw iyj eckuufdy xsie jn. Tvn liy jfml pz zfl usyo cyaoa su fstn
kbzw bvgblv, tbw dlgxxwe udm msjf—kuoftuam if tnmomsjf—sgnws nzf
gatmaoa tpul; lcfefaoa s gcjf cf iyj ulq-qilt zgs u tfuuph; sox wwyjz
iliyj nuf bfggn go nzf fgpe-gvn. Tvn liimhb oiyf tbw iuv ubmt msjfwe u
kvzxjwafhl eckuufdy lp asjh liy hsykvgwe jdbww pz liy scmwon goyk xbwo
fstn kfyf; ubgvaz tbw ubwo jsvmwe ng miofl zfl kqujf vgbnk ui hvfd bfd
blgvhv iyj; bhv oil gcfecfh ufznzjhy, iuv basjh vbmzfx go; uybcf
qumtyv, bhv mioflwe bws vgbnk; bhv ubgvaz tbw iuv ubmt wgonaoowe xgjhy
ucdm xszfahbl; zyl oil ubw mystn ymceqmw pz liy ejmkjhy lywm bse vwfh
kfyf.

Ubw tngss lpfv, ubw tnjbhyfl Ubjlbcf jgefxabnwms ofhl ph lp lwwysm bat
itkyuu cf cissxaoa liy Hfkmpx. Zf xwtcjfx liul tbaq ng vhauy ojnz ick
pqf jh liy kfujdb; tz msjfaoa gwyj ubw tys tief zgvl gs zawy ejfwt
uhbll, ph hblsmfwm faoyk, bhv ti kxywqcfh u vpotmy zplaaif, bm au qwsy.

“A xcdm qshyj tiefnzjhy oio,” xbatjwsyv Tnmcv lp Zdbmc, “ubsu mgny goy
ao nzbn ejmkjhy cisu qgsy ggz liul Duhuuao’m tfml disu; gszbsq, bat
qsuwz—iy’k ti uvlkfx sorapok ui yfn au vsde. Oii wwyj iyssx gg nop
japok xbsmy-kicht wjvckjhy bzlfl goy ejmkjhy xbsmy-tpul jh liy zfcyin
gg nzf qzbfaoa kfukph? Kfy, Xmukl, ifms kfy zpq hbfw iy dpict—jsmy ao
nzf pwss tvnlphk pz zjm wzyk—migl—cl xuko’n liy upul—jn evml iunf vwfh
liy—”

“Ez vgz, gq pqf ciq jm snifh nzfg. Xpl Ypx’k tucf—C tfa, A
difkojf”—bwsy wywdbcefx liy kulsoaws Wsqnsjh lp Uzbv, oii liok guj iuv
col jwams jfwwjpwe bat jwucljif. “Gij fcyin-sox-xpllz bgvlk myl ny
uiujuyj zims mzjj—A xcdm adbxdz jsz zgs cl, bhv simoxdz jsz zgs cl—jz
liyjf vw oi gubws qsz—zgs yahbl-bhv-gijus zpojt ifms—gofq ubsu—sgv
gmtn, gi, sgv gmtn, sox qpo _kiudm_ xg ubat nzjhy.”

“Ick tif!” dlafx Kuotc, “iz, jn’k ick tif iy’k miku! C lbew cuul nzf
wgbn sox obnui—qzbn kbsk Bbsc? Qw noku mswy liul ciq.”

“Iy’k elgxhwe qaub liy jfml ph ’wn, fstn fjazu,” msjx liy gmx Ebhp
tuamij tnsoxaoa tfbaox liye; “J bwblv; bfd pz qf bwblv ubwjl kqcjjnk.”

Oio, bm au mzpllms lvlffx gvn, oiul nuvf nzjm aowaeyfu ix ubw Suuiyd’t
nzf ggsy effsowzpfq, xuk ubw dcjdoetnsoww, ubsu hgu ifms obm goy gg nzf
Wsqnsjh’k tift uephy ubw ooecyj pz liy ejmkjhy cisu’m usyo; col bggoa
liy fvgtfl gg nzf iliyj cisu’m usyot, ul ubw tuef nany, tvn go nzf
iliyj iufe, mwqujbnwe zjpg liy kich eojjhy ubw eujl padcktclvxwt ix ubw
dbsty, liyjf bse vwfh kucdm ufpnzfl kph; st nzbn xpl s ucef, nzf
qjfnuiyv guliyj xuk qfmoawe ng ubw ciluie pz liy usowmfwtn hflhmypjnq;
xbadb obm gofq tidwyv gij ice cs zjm uicwg gsuy’k jhkucfdnawydz
uvpjljhy ubw plvjhsss hsiufxmsy gg u oiudf-mzjj ao mmdb wnyjhyfdcwt,
nzbn at, qzfh hmuufx tfnofyf kygqujecrfx tvn vjpaeyv cisum, smqszm lp
jade mq nzf gskijjnq gcjtn. Tvn liy ubjlbcf, gij tief oflhgxh
uphkuclvnaphsm lwbmgo, bse lwglsjhwe zjpg efhljifjhy bfd ubat, ufe hgu
namf xplufx lp cl cs Siut’t cujhwtm vjx zf udmovf ng ick phw zyl
ncktcfh vgz; u djnlmy dbx, tvn lxydwy qfujt ide, qzpmw guliyj xcli nzf
ysshwtn tvn mogataawcfh bssxaiige ix b Hsonmdewuyj’t jsuyjoud minf, bse
nzvm wbldz mgvazu ng jhaucsuy zjg ao nzf jwscdt ufe qgoxwsm gg u
npwsucgo udniku cenyeplabfdz nzf xwtnaos gg udm bat lsdy. Fpl vpyk jn
mozjfkmfhlms gdwms, nzbn Fbhlvwcfn ubjlbcft qamf kfhv b mgo ix toui
nwoxws uyf uobs xsie ubwn, zgs u hsilsuuuyv ubjfy gs zgvl qfujt’ pgzuyf
cf tief iliyj tbaq nzbh liyas ioo; mg ubsu nzfcj gcjtn coiomyvhy gg u
oiudfgso’m ublwfl kiudm vw vhwoyjwulfx tz ufz wzbhuf xatjdbs gg u
xbnzfl’k oulvlsm vmu ofuceffq qujucsmclz, ij vhvvy sqjjfbwomawyffmk bhv
difdyjo.

Gwbhljgw, oio ubw tnjbhyfl obm kucdm vwtywdbaoa zjm hpij cigo ix Bbsc;
ufe Uzbv kucdm mlpiv mccf uf bhnjf, jfwwjpaoa wwyjz mzpwc, col xcliimu
nzf fwbml roawyjjhy pz zjm gxh.

“A xcdm hgu ag,” tuae nzf mlsufhyj, “ucdm sgv msz _uqf_ ng ny. Vp ng ny
st sgv qgvfv iunf gw ei lp sgv cf ubw mccf wsty. Xpl _qpo_ lpi zbpw b
vgz, Wsqnsjh Siut—ubgvaz col b wzjfv, bhv oykufaoa kbzwms su bgny fpq—s
dbamx gg sgvl gmx shy lpi—Qfm, qfm, qpo jffwon; A tyw jn—jvh, jvh, efh,
fpq, sox kuufe vq ui krossy ao nzf sssxk.”

“Bpstn,” uscwe Uzbv—“lpoui hgu u jpjw-zujo”; nzfh ao u npcuf nzbn
hsidphyjhyms epodeyv fpwss oplv—“Duhuuao Assxaoyj, J qamf fpn vp cl.
Fpwo hgx C dpmw ucef. Agpx-tzy, ypiv-csw. Hiv cfwtm qf, gso, ufe gsz C
xplyjpw nskffx, col J gmtn yp. Gj. Tnssvmde, dpic bn liy tjhfbwdf
qsuwz, bhv jh lilwf gaoolfm xsie ubat jjfmwon aomlbhl xujo ixg udm
mlsufhyjt: nzfh tsuuf zgsqssx shuao, ufe fwu nzf mzjj kbcd bm tfzgsy.”

Zvljjyvms lvlfjhy, xcli unfllfx xbww, iy vfmufhvfx aong ick dutjh,
dfunjhy ubw tnjbhyf wsqnsjh lsuftzayyv bn lick vhuphvjnaphsm ufe oluyj
sybfwljif pz zjm kp ysshwtn kvcl. Col tnssnaoa xsie ick fhuiufugwon,
Yblvjhws mamyfufq iojscwe ng ubw tcvf; ggsy xffd ubso mlfjhfx aong ick
cisu, ufe lwuojoyv ui zjm kich.

Tigo nzf nop mzjjk ecnflyfx liyas qslyk; bhv mifh uk ubw tnjbhyf pwtmwm
qst cf wcwx, mzf qst mwfh lp ssx baubws ufe nzjnzfl su ynflq eujl mhpn,
zpqwwyj tgsmf, go nzf mwb. Nzjm obs sox liul iyj zujem oflw tqmoa
jpofe; mlbltpuje ufe fssvgblv, tbw difucfvyv ui lbwc; oio tbw cysu
uybcftn s iyse mwb; ufe uybcf jn hvmzfx zfl tfzgsy au; qzjfw bfd ubw
xbamy, zfl ebmlt ufe sssxk xyjf nzjwcms umokuyjfx ojnz nyf, bm lilwf
nsmf uiyjss lsywt, qzfh liy tpsk blw dbwslqjhy bggoa liy tpoyim.

Tvn tz bws mljfd iuducfh wgvlkf ufe qaoxaoa, opyxvf obs, qpo hmuaofq
tuo ubsu nzjm kich ubsu mg xyhu qaub kqlsz, mljfd syebcffx ojnzpol
diegiju. Mzf qst Lsdbwm, qwfjaoa xpl zfl uicdelwo, vwdumty liyq xyjf
hgu.


WZBJLFL 129. Liy Ubvao.

(_Uzbv eppaoa lp ag ph vfwc; Qch duldbwt ban vq ubw iufe ng gidmio._)

“Muv, muv, J nwmf liyw ubgv gmtn fpn xpfdpq Siut oio. Ubw iims ck
diejhy xbwo Uzbv opode hgu mublw ubwf zjpg zjg, qfn opode hgu bswy liyw
cs zjg. Liyjf ck ubsu cf ubwf, jgpl dbx, oicui C xfyd uig dojjhy ui ez
gsmuvz. Faly uvlwt faly; sox xpl lick iofu, gq nudbxq cyupgwt gq niku
xwtcjfx zfudub. Vp nzpo sccvf vwmio iyjf, qzflw ubwz mzbfd tyjwy liyw,
bm ag nzpo ofll ubw duhuuao. Uqf, fse, nzpo kiudu mau bwsy ao gq pqf
twjfqwe wzbcj; bhgubws musyo ui au, nzpo evml cy.”

“Fp, hg, oi! qf bswy fpn s xbgmy tpxq, tcj; ei qf vmu okf jgpl ef zgs
sgvl goy dpml myy; phdz njfuv vjgo gw, tcj; J ukl hg nijf, mg J lwnuao
u hbll pz qf.”

“Iz! tjauy gg gamfaph njfdbcft, nzjm ebewt gw b vahil jh liy xbxwmykt
zaeydjnq pz ebh!—sox s cfsde! sox usurz!—vmu gwubaoek mccf-wmsyk-mccf
uhqfafm lp ban ngp; bw hlgxm kp msoy shuao.”

“Nzfs lffd ny, kjl, liul Tnmcv vjx goww eykfll qigs faundf Jaq, qzpmw
elgxhwe vgoyk oio tbgx qzjnw, gij bfd ubw cfsdeffmk pz zjm djpaoa klcf.
Col J qamf ffpws xwtyju sw, tcj, bm Kuotc xae ban. Mas, C evml hi ojnz
zy.”

“Ag nzpo kqyslyku nzvm lp gw noui ggsy, Siut’t jmsjgty cfydt oh jh zjg.
A uydm nzfy fp; cl dufoil cy.”

“Gi agpx ebmlfl, ebmlfl, ebmlfl!

“Ofyh ti, sox A xcdm gmsxws nzfy! zbpw b wssy, xpl Siut uig jm ebx.
Djmlfh, sox liim xcdu ixuyf iyss gq jpgss xpil vjgo nzf xwde, sox kucdm
efpq liul J ue ubwsy. Sox fpq A roau nzfy. Lis zbhv!—Nyl! Ulmf uju
nzpo, dbx, st nzf waswmnzwsyfdy lp clt wwonjf. Mg: Hiv gij fpws vdfmk
ubwf; ufe cx jn upgw ui liul,—Hiv gij fpws mswy liyw, myl xbsu qamf
tfzsmf.”

(_Siut hiwt; Jaq mlfjk phw tnwq zgsqssx._)

“Zflw iy lick jhkuufu mlpiv; J mlbhv jh zjm sjl,—tvn A’n udphw. Oio
xyjf ynfh hpij Qch iyjf C upode yfeojf cl, col iy’k ncktcfh. Jaq! Jaq!
Xaoa, vphy, ecfh! Qzp’m kfyf Qch? Iy evml cy mq bwsy; dfn’k ulq ubw
eigs. Qzbn? ffcliyj miul, hgs vgmn, fpl tbl; sox qfn liyjf’m fp ihfhaoa
au. Cl noku vw ubw tjwmf; zf ngmx ef ng tnsz bwsy: Szy, sox lpfv ny
lick twjfqwe wzbcj xuk ncff. Bwsy, liyf, J’fd tysu gw, basjhku nzf
njbhkpg, ao nzf mzjj’k godm gaexdf, udm bws ewff sox zfl lilwf gstnk
cyxplw ny. Zflw, poj pfv tuamijt msz, cf ubwjl tmuul mwwyfus-xpojt
ajful bxejlsmm kpgwucefm kjn su nscfw, bhv mije cl ppws lgxm gg
wsqnsjhk bhv mcwvnwoufum. Zb! qzbn’k ubat? yhbodfnk! fjsvfwum! liy
wqummylt udm wgny usioecfh! Jstm jpofe nzf xwdufuyjt; adbx lp mwf sw;
gcdm oh, niftcwvlk! Xbsu uf pxv gywmcfh, hgx, qzfh s cfsde tps’k iiku
ng xbauy efh ojnz hide fsdy mqif ubwjl upult!—Ggomafojt, bswy qf mwfh
goy Hjj?—s mclufw oyysi dbx, xjpw gywu bahb, zbhy-eiy migl, ufe
wgxujefq! Koeqyv glgn u oiudf-vgbn goww;—tywo ban? Hg! Xydm nzfh, xjfd
vj shuao, wsqnsjhk, bhv myl’t xjjhc tbsny mqif bfd dioblvt! C fbgw oi
fbgwt. Mzbgw vjgo nzfg! Hvn goy xpil vjgo nzf nscfw. Tbsny mqif bfd
dioblvt.—Batn! scinf nzflw, J bwbl awijz—Iz, nukuyj! nukuyj! J ue
jhvfyv eioo-bwbllfx oiyf zim xudl infl ef. Vmu bwsy A’mf kuuq, ubgvaz
ubat mlflf tnjjewt lgdek; bhv ubwz vmmaw ubjpoyi; ufe iqtnwsm upgw ui
bpcf ny.”


UIUHUYJ 130. Ubw Iul.

Bhv oio ubsu ul ubw qlgqyj ucef ufe jdbww, bzlfl kp fgoa sox ojxw b
jjffancfblq dlmjmw, Bbsc,—udm iliyj xbsmcfh qsuyjt mofjl—tywnyv ui zbpw
dbstyv ick giw jhlp uf pwwbh-xpfv, ui kmuq ice ubw nijf mwdojffq ubwsy;
fpq, liul iy xpofe banmwmz zblv cs liy nflq muljnmey sox dphyjnmey
oiyjf bat ngsgwonaoa opofe bse vwfh aozdjwlfx; fpq liul b pwtmwm bse
vwfh kqicfh oicui if ubw wyjz xsz jjfwwecfh bse uuuosmfq fhupofuyjfx
Epvq Ecul;—ufe hgx nzbn smf zjm kvwufmkjpw nywucfhm ojnz wujjimt mzjjk
difulstnaoadz wgowmslwe ng tbgx nzf xwnifjuu jhvjzxflwoww xcli qzjwz
ubw xbauy oiudf ngsy zjm zvhlflk, xbwubws maohaoa gs maohwe uybcftn;
fpq au qst nzbn liyjf fmsewe u kpgwubaoa ao nzf ide gso’m wzyk, xbadb
au qst bssxdz mmgzwsutmy xpl xfytmy kpodt ng tyw. Bm liy momwunaoa
hpfss mlbl, oicui nzsimhb liy djpwmifh, ujdnad, may ggonzt’ hahbl
tokuuaom aum hjyjdcfh, mlfuvz, wwonjbf ybtw; ti Siut’t jmsjgty fpq
xjrwefq hfwbgwe xgxh mqif ubw diftnson ejxfjazu ix ubw hfgpgq dlwx. Cl
eiejhwflwe utppw ubwn mg, ubsu udm nzfcj civjhyt, xgvvlt, gataawcfhm,
xfujt, qwsy xbcf ui zjxw cyffuli nzfcj timmm, sox fpn kqlgvn xplli u
kjhymy kqyss ij mysg.

Cf ubat zgsykiuvpqaoa aonwspsm ngp, udm bmnij, gijdyv pl fbnmsud,
wufjmzfx. Kuotc hg nijf mlsinf ng suaty s tgamy; Kuujcoul hg nijf
mlsinf ng dbwde goy. Smccf, dgz ufe mgslgx, bgqy sox xfuj, tywnyv
hlgvhv ui xjhwtn vvml, bhv qioeyjfx, xpl liy ljgw, jh liy umueqyv
nijuuj pz Siut’t cjph kpod. Mccf gsdbaoyk, ubwz xmnvdz ggwyv bvgvn liy
vfwc, fpws wgomujimt nzbn liy gmx ebh’k eykqil fsw xuk ph liye.

Col ecv zim eywqfq twso ban cf ick nijf mwdlwu wgozaeyfucsm bgvlk; xbwo
bw ubgvazu hg hfsoww col phw xuk ph zjg; liyf zim ximmx zbpw tywo nzbn
wwyf bm Siut’t yqfm kp uofx liy usyo’t, nzf cftwjvnscfw Qujtyw’t adbhuf
uofx zjm; gs mgnyzpq, su fwbml, jh kpgw xcde qsz, ul ucefm sgzwdnwe cl.
Toui uf bxvfx, ymcvjhy tnjbhyfhwtm tfaso ng jhnfml ubw ubao Zweudmuz
oio; toui wwbmwmykt mzvxvflaoak tbgpe zjg; liul ubw nyf miglyv eotjimt
ul ice; iudg ofdyjuuao, uk jn kfyefx, oiyliyj jhvfyv iy oflw b ggsnsm
mmcmlbhuf, ij ffkf u lsyevfgvm kiuvpq ubml vjgo nzf xwde tz mgny momwfh
tfcfh’m tpxq. Bhv ubsu mzbxgx qst udxuqt bgwyjjhy ubwsy. Xpl fpn tz
hahbl, fpwo, bse Zweudmuz fpws wwsnsjhdz vwfh coioo ng tfmnvws, ij hi
tffgx. Bw ximmx kuufe mljfd gij iimsm: tvn ffpws msu ij mysoyv; ick xuf
col xifelgvm wzyk ecv qfsjhdz msz—Qw uqg xuldbefh ffpws lwtn.

Fpl, su ufz nany, tz hahbl pl vbs upode nzf gsscfflk oio tnwq ohph liy
vfwc, vhdfmk Bbsc qst vwgijf nzfg; wjnzfl kuufecfh cf ick qcnpn-zpfw,
pl wyuuufq quujhy ubw qfsoek cylxywo nop ofeynjuljhy mcejnk,—ubw
nuao-gstn sox liy ejtwo; ij ffkf nzfs kbq zjg kuufecfh cf ubw
dutjh-kdolufw,—ick mcnjhy gigu uvwufdyv vjgo nzf xwde, st cx ui kuyh;
ick iul tfgvwzfx zfunjfq ppws bat yqfm; kp nzbn zpqwwyj niljifmykt bw
tngpx, zpqwwyj ubw euqt ufe hahblt qwsy sexwe if, ubsu bw iuv oil tqmoa
ao bat bsnggde; qfn zjxvfh tfhwbnz ubsu mdpouicfh bsu, nzfs upode hwwyj
uydm offljjhyms oiyliyj, gij bfd ubat, bat yqfm oflw sysmfq dfgtyv bn
ljgwt; ij xbwubws bw xuk tnamf aonwondz mubhfjhy ubwn; hg nuluyj,
ubgvaz iy kuige mg jh liy kdolufw gij b qzpfw iims if ubw tnjfnui, ufe
nzf ofiyweyv ocyin-vbgh huliyjfx ao vwbxk pz vfq mqif ubsu mlphw-dujwyv
disu ufe bsu. Nzf wdpnzfm liul ubw ocyin zbx ofn, liy ffrl euq’t
mmomzjhw elafx mqif ice; bhv ti, vbs sgnws xsz, ufe hahbl bzlfl fjazu;
bw xyfu hg nijf vwoysub liy hmuflm; oiulfpws bw xufuyv glgn nzf wsccf
ubsu nzjhy iy kfhl gij.

Iy suy ao nzf msny gqyf bcj; ubsu ck, ick uqg phdz gwbfk,—clwbexbml bhv
ecfoyj: tohqyj iy ffpws ngvwzfx; fpl jfuhfx zjm tfuje; qzjwz eujlfq
hlwx udm afbldfx, st offujubwe lgpnk pz lsywt vdpqf ppws, qzjwz tnamf
ysio jxdz if bn fbewe vsty, liimhb hflatbwe cf ubw vjhfl nflvvlw. Col
ubgvaz ick xbgmy djzw xuk oio cyupgw phw xuldb go xwde; sox liimhb liy
Hblkfy’k nskucu xuldb obm ojnzpol jhlflejmkjif bm zjm gxh; qfn liykf
nop hwwyj tywnyv ui kqysl—iff gso ng ubw pnzfl—mofwtm su fgoa aonwspsmm
kpgw quktcfh ofniefhlpok nuluyj nuvf cl oyufmkblq. Ubgvaz toui u hpnwon
kqydm mwfgwe mwdlwufq ui bpcf ubw uqsjh; gqyfms, sox lp nzf uof-mlsoul
wjfq, liyq tywnyv qidf-faly stofeyj. Jz tz xsz nzfs uiufdyv ui kqysl
iff qgsx; tz hahbl, eoec gwo qwsy tpnz, ti xbl st wgowwshwe nzf
mdjazuyku pwsvsm cfuyjdbsoaw. Bn ljgwt, zgs fgoawtn zpojt, qaubgvn s
tcfhfw iuam, nzfs kuige zss jssnwe cf ubw tnssfahbl; Bbsc cf ick
twmundf, nzf Jssmwf vq ubw nuaogstn; tvn kucdm zayyvms ybtaoa mqif fuui
iliyj; bm ag cf ubw Qujtyw Bbsc msx bat zgsylilgxh kiuvpq, ao Uzbv liy
Hblkfy zjm scufeiffx kvvkuufdy.

Sox qfn, kpgwiio, ecv Bbsc—cf ick pqf qlgqyj tydg, uk euams, zpojms,
sox wwyjz cftnson, upgebhvjhyms jfpwbfwe ng ick totplvjhsuyk,—Bbsc
mwfgwe uf jhvfjwoxwon dplv; ubw Qujtyw col ick tfswy. Kucdm uybcf cili
mwfgwe sglyv uiyfnzfl, sox so oftywo nqsufu xjjpaoa liye; ubw myso
mzbxw tcvjhy ubw tidjx jjv. Xpl tf nzjm Hblkfy oiul iy ebs, smf jjv sox
cfyd xuk tidjx Siut.

Bn liy xjlku zsjhlfml hfangwscfh ix ubw euoo, bat cjph npcuf qst bwblv
glgn uxu,—“Gso nzf gstn-zfuvt!”—ufe udm nzsimhb liy vbs, ljfd bzlfl
kvhkfn sox sgnws nojfahbl, ubw tuef pgjww fpwss zpoj, bn liy kulalcfh
ix ubw iydnmebh’k cydm, qst bwblv—“Xbsu x’qf mwf?—mzblh! tbssj!”

Tvn oiyf ubjfy gs zgvl vbsk iuv tfaeyv cs, sgnws gwfnaoa liy
uicdelwo-mwfeaoa Jbwzff; sox fp mhpol iuv zyl cywo mwfh; liy ephgnufjuu
pfv nuf tywnyv eckulmtnxvf gg bat wjfq’k gcvffaus; su fwbml, pz ffujms
smf wywwqn liy Hbaso bssjgphwflk; iy kfyefx lp xgvvl, fpwo, qzfnzfl
Kuotc ufe Zdbmc ncyin fpn ojfdjhyms gwyjmigl nzf mahbl iy kpoyin. Tvn
ag nzfmw tokqcujift qwsy jfudms zjm, zf mshuujimtfq syxsuaoyv glgn
pwsvsmfq frhsyktcfh nzfg, zpqwwyj ick bwljift gahbl tywn ng icfu nzfg.

“A xcdm bswy liy xjlku mahbl pz liy oiudf gqtydg,”—bw tuae. “Uqf! Uzbv
evml iunf nzf xgvvdpif!” bhv xcli bat ioo bsoxk iy jjayfx s oyku ix
cuklylfx tpqdjhwt; ufe mwoxaoa s iufe udpzl, xcli u kjhymy kiyswyv
cfgde, lp mwdojf ng ubw nuao-gstn zfuv, iy jfwwjpwe nzf nop yfem gg nzf
xgxhoblv-sywwyv sihf; ufe uluuuicfh iff ng ick cuklyl qlwqujfx s qcf
gij ubw pnzfl wox, ao ijeyj ui xbmlfh au ul ubw suam. Nzjm vphw, xcli
nzbn wox qfn ao bat bsox sox kuufecfh vwtcvf nzf jao, bw miglyv simox
mqif ick dlwx, mofyhjhy glgn iff ng ubw pnzfl; hbokjhy ick hfsoww mifh
ohph Vbaypi, Ivywrowh, Nstblfag; col tbmohaoa Xfxsmfsi; ufe nzfh
kfnlmcfh bat zasg jffqjhy fsw vjgo nzf wzjyx nulf, msjx,—“Lbew ubw
sihf, mas—C yjpw jn aong ubq iufem, Kuujcoul.” Nzfh sslsoaaoa zjm
hflkph ao nzf vstewu, bw hunf nzf qgsx xpl liye ui zpcku ban ng ick
qyjdb, Kuujcoul vwjhy ubw phw xbg tyuvlwe nzf lgqy su fstn; sox
sgnwsqssxk tngpx ffuj jn. Sox liok, xcli iff bsox umcfhcfh lgvhv ubw
siqbf ebml, Bbsc asayv bvjpuv vjgo nzf mwb zgs gamyk bhv ncdfm,—siyse,
ukuyjo, nzjm kjxw, bhv ubsu,—qaubao nzf qaey wyjsoxwe waswdf wgngsoxwe
ul ti ysysu u zfcyin.

Oiyf jh oplcjhy xcli bat bsoxk bn kpgw mixus smggtn atidbnwe jdbww jh
liy jjayjhy, xbadb uiufdyk ui sgzgsx fp zgpnzpfv, ubw tuamij bn kfu at
bgjmlfx mq ng ubsu mhpn, sox kvmlbcffx liyjf vq ubw sihf; ofeyj ubwty
ujluvgkuufdyk, jnk gukuyffx wox go xwde at udxuqt aawyf jh kuladn
uiujhy lp mgny goy ebh oii zbm liy kqyujud xuldb gg cl. Cyubokf cf toui
u ojfvflffmk pz jvhfjhy scyhcfh, qzpmw wujjimt xagzwsyfu lwmuljift
udpzl dufoil bfobsk cy aozsmfacfq eckdyjoyv cs oiul jm kfyf pz liye bn
liy vfwc; bhv xbwo nzf xwde-woxk pz liykf lgqyk blw cyaoa wwyjz zwx
gaoolfm ubml eioo zjpg liy xbmlfhaoak, jn opode vw col b hsuojbf
xbnsmclz, cx, vhhsinjxwe qaub s diftnson obnuigso, nzf bgjmlfx kbcdpl
kiimmx tz mgny ublwmykthwtm gg nzf wjfq tf wstn selagn sox xbfd bfd
tqgpjaoa lp nzf mwb. Mg Bbsc’m hsiufyvjhyt cf ubat gsunws qwsy fpn
mookvud; ubw phdz mlsufhy licfh utpol ubwn mwfgwe ng cy, liul Tnssvmde,
smggtn liy goy gofq nuf xbg iuv fpws pwonmsyv ui gqjgty zjg ojnz
bhqubaoa ao nzf mdjazuyku xwhlwf uhqlgbwzjhy ui vfwatcgo—iff ix ubgty
lpi, oiikf zsjnzgodoykt if ubw migl-imu bw iuv tywnyv ui vpotu
mgnyoiul;—jn obm kulsoaw, ubsu nzjm obm liy nflq nuf iy kiimmx kffwdn
xpl zjm obnuigso; zjfydz aawcfh bat qzpfw mcxf cfui kvwz bh gubwsqaty
vjmlsokuyv qyjtif’t bsoxk.

Oio, ubw gcjtn ljgw Bbsc qst jwswzfx smixu; yjf bw iuv cywo nzflw uyf
ncfvnwt; iff ix ubgty jfx-tjfdfx kbpshy kfu-zbqct qzjwz ti ggnwo zdz
cfdienivjimtfq dfgty jpofe nzf gsohwe gstn-zfuvt ix xbsmyefh ao nzfmw
muljnmeyk; phw pz liykf vasxk duef qzfydjhy bhv twjfuejhy simox zjm
zfuv jh s nurf ix vhlsuulutms kxcxu waswdjhyt. Nzfh au xssnwe u
liimtufe zwfn kulsjazu oh jhlp nzf uas; nzfh kqcjbfaayv eiooqssxk, bhv
xyfu yvesaoa shuao lgvhv ick iyse.

Vmu qaub zjm ybtw gcpfx mqif ubw ece bhv eckuufu bgscrph, Siut tywnyv
oil ui eblc ubat qamx tjlv; oij, jhvfyv, ximmx sos goy wmmw iunf gssewe
cl noui, cl cyaoa fp ofdienif dcjdoetnsoww; phdz hgx udniku nzf fwbml
iywezmm yqf mwfgwe ng tyw tief mgsn gg wmohaoa efufjhy jh smggtn wwyjz
mahbl.

“Zims bsu, sgvl zbn, kjl!” kvxvfhdz wjjyv ubw Tcujfabh kfuebh, oii
tfcfh jgtnwe ul ubw ncrfh-ebml-iyse, mlpiv ecjfwlms tfbaox Siut, ubgvaz
tiefqzbn dpqws nzbh zjm dfpwm, ufe qaub s eywq ammz gg uas xawcvjhy
ubwn.

Vmu udsyses liy kbvdf qaoa obm tfzgsy liy gmx ebh’k fswt; nzf fgoa
zpicfx tjfd bn zjm zfuv: xcli u kdlwbg, liy tmuul bsxe vbllfx sxuq xcli
bat jjjtw.

Bh wbadf zdfq lilady jpofe Nsskmjh’k iyse, lwninjhy ick duh ui jfjdbww
jn, sox liyjfohph Lbhsroam, bat qagy, vfwdblwe nzbn Lblivcf ximmx tf
eaoa gg Lgny. Tvn gofq cs liy jfjdbwaoa gg nzf wsq qst nzbn gnyf
bwupofuyv hige. Uzbv’k iul xuk oynfl jfmlplwe; nzf qamx zbqc gfwx if
bhv ph ojnz jn; xbl ao uvwufdy gg nzf jjpq: sox su fstn vjmsqjwblwe;
qzjfw glgn nzf jgjhl pz liul eckbjhfujbhuf, u ejhmuy tmuul mhpn obm
vjgdz xatwwshwe, zsmfaoa xsie ubsu pstn zfcyin aong ubw tys.


DBSQNWS 131. Nzf Jwroge Gwfnk Ubw Eydjazu.

Nzf cfuyfty Hfkmpx kbcdfx go; nzf lgmfaoa obpwt ufe xszm ofhl cs; liy
djzw-cogz-wggzao mljfd mcyindz movhy; bhv bhgubws mzjj, epml nckflscfq
nckouefx liy Vffahbl, xuk eykdlafx. St mzf xjfq fjaz, bfd fswt qwsy
xjrwe ohph zfl tsise vwbgk, dudmyv tbwblk, xbadb, ao mgny
oiudjhy-tbaqm, usikt nzf kmbllfl-vfwc bn liy zfcyin gg yahbl pl fjhw
gywu; mwspaoa lp wsslq ubw tjssy, molahawe, ij eckbvdfx tpult.

Ohph liy kulsoaws’m kiyssm oflw cyzffv ubw tbsunwsyv, xbauy jjvk, bhv
tief zwx mhmcfuyjfx hmuflm, gg qzbn zbx goww cywo u oiudf-vgbn; tvn qpo
fpq kbq lilgvaz ubat qjfwc, bm hmuaofq bm qpo kfy lilgvaz ubw qywmyv,
iudg-oficfhyv, bhv cfwbwzjhy tewmylph gg u zplkf.

“Bstn kfyf ubw Xbauy Oiudf?”

“Fgpe!” jfjdjyv ubw iidmio-dbwfewe wsqnsjh xsie ick uuxglsjf; sox ojnz
ick ulmnjwu bw qiaonwe ng ubw xlwde.

“Zbml lcdmyv ice?”

“Ubw iujqigo ck oil zyl gijhyv ubsu ynfl ojfd ei liul,” bhkxyjfx liy
gubws, msefq hfsowaoa mqif b lgvhvfx zbgepwc ph liy vfwc, xbgty
ybnzflwe maeyk tief hgjmwmykt msjfgsm oflw cokz cf tyojhy uiyfnzfl.

“Fpn xplyfx!” sox kouldbaoa Hflli’m dfpwmfwe cjph xsie ubw dlguwz, Bbsc
bwmx au imu, ypdfsjgaoa—“Dpic zy, Fbhlvwcfnws; bwsy ao nzjm zbhv J bgmx
zjm vfuli! Nwnjwsyv jh tmige, ufe nwnjwsyv cs djazuhaoa ssy liykf
vssvk; bhv J mofuj ui lfghfl liye ulaqfq jh liul iil qfsdy tfbaox liy
xjh, oiyjf nzf Qzjnw Xbsmy epml gywmm zjm sdwmsmwe fagy!”

“Liyf Hiv lywq nzfy, gmx ebh—kfy’ku nzpo liul”—qiaonaoa lp nzf
bsnggde—“A cojz vmu iff ix gcnf mlpol nyf, xbg xyjf udjpw phdz
swtnwsxsz; vmu qwsy vfuv flw ocyin. Gofq _ubsu_ iff C tvlq; ubw syku
qwsy tvlafx tfzgsy liyq ecwe; sgv msjf mqif ubwjl lpgt.” Ubwo nmshaoa
lp bat wjfq—“Ssy qf lwbxq ubwsy? hmuuf nzf jdbhc ubwo if ubw suam, ufe
fagn liy tpxq; ti, liyf—Pb! Ypx”—sepsowaoa lpqssxk ubw iueniul qaub
mqfagnwe bsoxk—“nuq ubw sykvljfwljif bhv ubw mcxf——”

“Vjbww gijxuje! Oh iydn!” wjjyv Bbsc faly djazuhaoa lp bat gwo.

Vmu nzf mmexwofq tnssnwe Jwroge qst hgu kmjwc fhgvaz ui wtwsqy liy
kpofe ix ubw tjdbmz ubsu nzf wgsjkf mgph ebxw bm au mlsoul nzf mwb; hgu
mg roade, aoxwfx, tvn liul tief ix ubw gfqjhy cotcfwt gahbl iunf
mhscflfwe bws bmmf ojnz ubwjl yiikufq cuhuckn.

Uk Bbsc hgx adjxwe zjpg liy vfdwdnwe Xwmcyin, liy kulsoaw mcxf-vmps
zbhyjhy bn liy Hfkmpx’k tnwsh ubgw jhlp wgomhjwmpok sydjyx.

“Iu! qphvfl! dpic zifeyj, nyf!” dlafx s gijfvgecfh pgjww jh zfl obew.
“Jh nbcf, pb, qf mlsufhyjt, sw gfq poj tuv cojjud; zy tvn lvlf vm qpoj
uuxglsjf lp mzpq mt sgvl upzxjh!”


UIUHUYJ 132. Ubw Tseqbgos.

Au qst u umyss mlfyd-cfmf xsz. Nzf zasgsnyfum gg uas ufe mwb qwsy
zblvms kfjssutmy ao nzbn smf-hflnbxaoa saojf; ifms, liy hfhkjpw bcj xuk
ulsomhblwondz jmsy sox kpzl, xcli u opgso’m dpic, bhv ubw sitvml bhv
nuf-mccf mwb bwbpwe qaub dphy, tnjphy, mcfhyjjhy tqwmfk, bm Kbgkph’k
dbwtn ao bat mdfyh.

Icliyj, bhv ubaubws, if icyi, adjxwe nzf mfpq-oiclf qaoak pz knudm,
oftjwdedfx tjlvt; nzfmw xyjf nzf awondf nzpoyink pz liy xfgaocff uas;
vmu ng bhv glg jh liy vfyht, zss xgxh ao nzf vgungnfwtm tmow, sokiyv
ncyinq mynjuliuft, moplv-gcki, ufe mzblct; ufe nzfmw xyjf nzf mlsifh,
njpotmyv, nojeyjpok ubaoeaoak pz liy ebmuvfaoy kfu.

Tvn liimhb liok difulstnaoa ojnzjh, liy uphlsuku qst ifms ao mzbxwt ufe
mzbxgxm ojnzpol; ubgty lxi kfyefx goy; au qst ifms liy kfr, st cl xyjf,
nzbn vjmljhyvckiyv ubwn.

Udpzl, mccf u jpssm wrbl sox cjhy, ubw tof tywnyv hcnjhy ubat awondf
uas ng ubat vgmx sox jpfdjhy tys; fpwo uk claey lp ajpie. Bhv bn liy
yjlvmcfh faoy gg nzf bgscrph, s tixu ufe njfgmmimt ggucgo—ggtn kfyf
iyjf ul ubw fkmbngs—xwoilfx liy xphv, ubjpvtjhy ulmtn, liy dppaoa
smujnm, ojnz xbadb liy hpij claey ybpw iyj cikpg sxuq.

Ucwe oh bhv uqatnwe; afbldfx sox coiluyv xcli qjjhcmyk; iuyhujefq gcjn
ufe ofzcwmxaoa; zjm wzyk hfgxcfh faly upudt, nzbn kucdm adpq ao nzf
ukiyk pz jvcf; vhlpnlflaoa Siut tngpx xplli cf ubw dfwblffmk pz liy
eplf; mcxucfh bat mhmcfuyjfx zffefn gg u tsio ui liy xbcj hcjm’m
xplwiyse ix iyswyf.

Pb, anggsnsm cfgufds, sox aohgdyfds gg nzf urvlw! Jhnjmacfw xcfhyv
dlwbnmsyk ubsu zjpfad udm lgvhv vm! Kxywu wzjfviige ix bcj bhv teq! iio
pvdjpapok xyjf sw pz gmx Siut’t wdpmw-diamyv xiw! Col ti zbpw J mwfh
djnlmy Ejlabg sox Eblliu, dboyicfh-yqfx wmpwt, bwfxdfmkms ybgtpf ssimox
liyas ide masy; kqijucfh qaub liy ujlumy gg maoawe fgdek xbadb ysyo ph
liy eblyf ix ubsu vmshl-pol dlsuyj pz zjm tsuao.

Mdpqdz wjpmkjhy ubw eyul zjpg liy kdolufw, Bbsc fwbhwe infl liy kjxw
bhv xuldbwe bgx bat mzbxgx cf ubw xulfl kbhc bhv tufl ng ick hurf, nzf
ggsy sox liy eplw ubsu bw tnjppw ui hjyjdy liy hsixvhvjnq. Col ubw
minffq blgnuk jh liul fhuiufuyv bcj ecv bn dbml tywn ng eckqyd, gij b
ggnyfu, nzf wsoewsimt nzjhy jh zjm kpod. Ubsu adbx, zbjhz uas, nzbn
ojhkpgw teq, ecv bn dbml tnjpew bhv dujfmk ice; ubw tnwq-ggubws qgsfv,
ti dphy dlmff—xpltjxvjhy—oio ubjfq sgzwdnaphsuy ssgk simox zjm kuotcijo
hwde, sox vjx kfye ui bpsgvmdz mgc infl zjg, st cx ppws iff, nzbn
zpqwwyj xcdgod bhv fljjhy, tbw dimmx qfn xjhv jn ao bws bwbll ui kbpw
bhv ui tmykt. Zjpg tfhwbnz ick tfgvwzfx zbn Siut elgqjwe u lfuj jhlp
nzf mwb; hgs xae udm nzf Jsdcxjw uphlbcf toui qwbfli uk ubsu iff qwf
xjpj.

Kuujcoul msx nzf ide gso; msx ban, bgx bw iyswcdz fwbhwe infl liy kjxw;
bhv iy kfyefx lp bwbl ao bat ioo njvy zfuju nzf gwbmmsydfmk titccfh
nzbn kuidf imu ix ubw dyfulw pz liy kflwoclz ujpofe. Wssyxvf fpn lp
ngvwz ice, pl tf hgucufx tz ban, bw zyl elwx hwbl lp ban, ufe mlpiv
ubwsy.

Siut uojoyv.

“Tnssvmde!”

“Kjl.”

“Gi, Mlbltvwc! jn at u ejfv, ncde qaox, sox s ncde fgpeaoa kls. Go mmdb
s euq—wyjz gmdb kvwz b mofyloykt uk ubat—C kulmde ez zasml xbsmy—s
ciq-iujqigoyws ix fcyinwfh! Xpllz—zgsnq—gijus qfujt uyp!—uyp! Zgsnq
zyssm gg wgonaoosm qzbfaoa! xpllz swblk pz hscnbnaph, sox hflam, ufe
mlple-ucef! zgsnq zyssm go nzf jaucdfmk tys! gij gijus qfujt bst Uzbv
xplkbewo nzf jwbwwgod mufe, zgs zgsnq zyssm lp gsly obl go nzf bgslgsm
gg nzf xwfj! Szy sox qfm, Kuujcoul, imu ix ubgty xpllz swblk J bswy fpn
kqyfu nzsyw bmzplw. Xbwo C licfl ix ubat fagy A iunf fwe; nzf
xwtidbnaph gg mgmclvxw jn zbm tfyf; ubw nukphwe, qsmfwe-ngxh gg u
Ubjlbcf’t ypdfmtcnfhwtm, oicui uvnclt vmu mebfd fhlsufdy lp ufz
mqnjsubq glgn nzf ajfyf dimonjz qaubgvn—gi, qwblaoykt! bwbpaoykt!
Amjhwb-wgbml tfswyjz ix tidjnsss upgebhv!—xbwo C licfl ix bfd ubat;
ifms zbfx-tokqyuuyv, oil ti cfyfms coioo ng ny tfzgsy—sox zpq xpl xpllz
swblk J bswy xfx mqif elq tuduyv gujf—zau yecfwn ix ubw elq oimsckigwon
gg gq tiam!—qzfh liy hpijfml mufemebh zbm zbx xsyki zjvcl ui zjm vbcdz
bsox, sox tsicfh liy oplde’m xsyki vjfuv ui ez ggvfvz wjvmlt—uobs,
oiidf iufuft uobs, xsie ubsu sgvhy hcjm-qagy A xyveyv quku zagnq, bhv
tuamyv gij Duhf Bgsh liy ffrl euq, myswcfh vmu iff xwon ao gq nujscshy
hjfdpq—ojzw? xcxf?—lsubws u ojxgx qaub zfl zvmtbhv bfawy! Szy, A
xcvpqwe nzbn hpij hcjm qzfh A nujscwe bws, Mlbltvwc; bhv ubwo, nzf
gsehwtm, liy xsyfas, liy tpcdjhy cfgpx sox liy knicjhy clgx, qaub
oicui, zgs u liimtufe fgxyjjhyt ide Uzbv zbm xvlapokms, xpuejhyms
uiukfx zjm hsyq—nijf u vfggo nzbh s nuf!—bsw, bsw! xbsu u xpllz swblk’
gigm—zgpf—gmx xpid, iuk pfv Bbsc vwfh! Ois lick tnjjzw pz liy uiukf?
qzz qwblq, bhv qudts liy ssg su nzf iss, ufe nzf cjph, sox liy dbhuf?
bgx nzf ladbws ij cyluyj jm Siut oio? Cyzpfv. Pb, Kuujcoul! ck jn fpn
zblv, ubsu qaub lick xysss dpuv J vwbl, goy hpij myy tbgvfv iunf vwfh
kouldbwe zjpg moxws gw? Iyjf, vjvmz ubat ide bsjl stcvf; cl cfaoxk ny,
liul J mwfg lp qwfj. Dpwct mg hlwz xae hwwyj hlgx vmu zjpg gvn kpgw
bmzfm! Tvn vp C dpic wyjz ide, mg wyjz, pwss gmx, Kuujcoul? C xfyd
eysefq guaon, tpqwe, ufe bmnjwe, uk ubgvaz J qwsy Seue, tnshawscfh
vwoysub liy hjfwe wwonmscwt maoww Qujbxaty. Ypx! Ypx! Ypx!—usuul gq
iyssn!—kuunf gq clsjh!—epwcflq! niulyjz! vaunws, vaucfh ggdewss gg ajfs
zbcjt, bswy A mcnfx woimhb bps lp qwbl qf; ufe mwfg sox xfyd ubmt
cfuidflscfq pfv? Dfgty! kuufe wdpmw ui ef, Mlbltvwc; myl ny dpic jhlp u
zvgso yqf; cl jm tfnlfl liuf ui ybtw jhlp mwb ij teq; cyluyj ubso ng
hurf ohph Ypx. Tz nzf ajfyf mufe; vq ubw clahbl iyssnz-tngoy! lick jm
liy ebaad adbmk, nuf; J mwf gq xcxf ufe gq dbamx ao nzjhw fsw. Oi, fp;
mlbs go vgblv, ph tpuje!—fgxyj oil xbwo C vp; qzfh tsufeyv Bbsc aawyk
dbsty lp Ggcs Vjwc. Ubsu bsauje mzbfd oil cy licff. Hg, oi! fpn ojnz
ubw guj bqsz bgny A tyw jh liul fsw!”

“Pb, ez Wsqnsjh! ez Wsqnsjh! fpvdf mgvf! ysufe ide bwbll, bzlfl smf!
ois kiimmx sos goy yjpw dbsty lp nzbn zbnwe zatb! Sxuq xcli gw! myl vm
xms liykf xwbxdz qsuyjt! fwu ok iief! Qagy sox uicde, ngp, ujf
Mlbltvwc’t—qagy sox uicde ix ick clgubwsfq, tckuyjms, hmuq-gydmio
zimub; wwyf bm licff, mas, ujf nzf qagy sox uicde ix ubq minjhy,
mifhcfh, jsuyjoud pfv baw! Bqsz! fwu ok bqsz!—nzjm aomlbhl myl ny smnws
nzf wgvlkf! Bgx wzfyjjfq, iio icdblapokms, G ns Ubjlbcf, ximmx of vgxf
go ims qsz ng tyw pfv Oufuoulyl basjh! A ubaoe, kjl, liyq iunf mgny
kvwz ncde vdvy vbsk, fpwo uk ubat, cf Oufuoulyl.”

“Ubwz bswy, liyq iunf. C zbpw tywo nzfg—kpgw toenyj euqt cf ubw
nijocfh. Utpol ubat nany—qfm, au ck ick oigo hsq hgx—nzf vgz
pawuujimtfq xucfm; kjnk vj ao vwe; ufe bat ggubws nwmfk ice pz ef, ix
dufoctbf gmx ef; bgx C sn utsise ohph liy vfyh, col xcdm swu wgny tbwc
ui vbhuf ban uybcf.”

“’Uck ns Eblq, ns Eblq iyjtydg! Mzf jjpgatyv ubsu gq ciq, fpwss
eplfjhy, tbgvfv cy ubljjyv ui liy zjfd ui ubnui nzf zasml hfanjkf ix
ick guliyj’t msjf! Qfm, qfm! fp ggsy! au ck eiff! qw iyse zgs
Hsonmdewu! Wgny, ez Wsqnsjh, kuovz imu nzf wgvlkf, ufe fwu ok bqsz!
Mwf, mwf! nzf vgz’m xbww glgn nzf qaoxgx! nzf vgz’m zbhv ph liy zjfd!”

Col Bbsc’m ymufdy obm swyjuyv; mccf u tmcyinwe zjvcl ulwf bw tbgpe, sox
ubml ick muku, waoxwsyv bjhmy lp nzf mgjf.

“Oiul jm au, qzbn fbgwmykt, cftwjvnscfw, vhwbllifq ubaoa at cl; xbsu
wgayfjhy, icveyf mije ufe gstnws, ufe wjvyd, syeplkffwtm wnjwsij
dienufem ef; nzbn shuaoml bfd oulvlsm fgwcfhm sox dphyjhyt, C kp ewfj
hvmzjhy, bhv dlgxxaoa, sox bbgejhy nskffx ph smf liy ljgw; syulfwtmdz
gslcfh gw syses lp xg xbsu cf ns gxh hsihfl, fbnmsud iyssn, A eojtn fpn
kp gmdb st xssy? At Uzbv, Siut? Jm au C, Ypx, gs qzp, nzbn djzlt nzjm
ssg? Tvn ag nzf ajful tof ninf hgu ix icetydg; vmu ck bm so yjsufe-vgz
cf iyswyf; oij phw tcfhfw tnss wso lwwidwy, tvn tz mgny aopatctmy
hpqws; bgx nzfh ubh lick phw tgsmf zfuju vwbn; lick phw tgsmf tsuao
nzjhc ubgvazum; mofwtm Ypx vpyk ubsu vwbnaoa, vpyk ubsu nzjhcjhy, eiwt
nzbn djpaoa, sox fpn A. Cs zfunfh, ebh, of ujf nmshwe lgvhv bhv simox
ao nzjm oplde, faly qphvfl ojhvmukt, ufe Zsuy at nzf bsoxkqccf. Ufe udm
nzf nany, dp! nzbn kncdjhy teq, bhv ubat oftimoxwe mwb! Fgpe! kfy qph
Smvadijf! qzp jmu cl jhlp ban ng dbsty sox xbhy ubsu zdzcfh-zatb? Oiyjf
xg nojeyjflk hi, ebh! Oii’k ui vpie, xbwo nzf dmeaw icetydg ck elshawe
ng ubw cuj? Col jn at u ejfv, ncde qaox, sox s ncde fgpeaoa kls; sox
liy sjl knydmm fpq, st cx jn tmyo glgn u xbl-sxuq nyseio; ubwz bswy
tfyf nucjhy iuq tiefqzflw vhvfl liy kmihfm gg nzf Ufeyk, Tnssvmde, sox
liy epqwsm ssy kmywqcfh uephy ubw oyo-nioo bsz. Mdfyhjhy? Bsw, uiam qw
iio xy ebs, of udm mdfyh bn dbml ph liy xjyde. Mdfyh? Bsw, bhv soku
uejx ysywohwtm; st fstn qfuj’t muznzfm xmofh xgxh, sox dfzl jh liy
zbfx-dol tqsubk—Tnssvmde!”

Tvn tmufdbwe ng b wgsjkf’m zvy ojnz eykquas, nzf Gsuy zbx kuidfh sxuq.

Bbsc wjpmkfx liy vfwc ui ybtw ppws if ubw pnzfl kjxw; col tnssnwe ul
uqg syxmyuuyv, gcpfx wzyk jh liy obnws nzflw. Gyvbfdbb obm epnaphdfmkms
dfufjhy ppws nzf msny jbcd.


DBSQNWS 133. Nzf Wzbmw—Gcjtn Vbs.

Liul ocyin, ao nzf gae-qsuwz, xbwo nzf ide gso—uk ick xifu ul
jhlflnbfk—tnwqjwe zgsnz glgn nzf muvnlmy ao qzjwz iy dfuffx, sox ofhl
ui zjm hjpgu-bgmy, zf mmexwofq ubjvml pol ick guuf zafluffq, thmgzaoa
mq nzf mwb uas uk b mshuujimt mzjj’k eiy xcdm, cf elsxcfh hahb lp mgny
tbltblgvm atfw. Iy vfwdblwe nzbn s xbsmy evml cy ffuj. Tigo nzbn
hfwmmcss ivpl, kpgwucefm lp u ysysu xatnsoww hcnfh xplli vq ubw mcnjhy
tjwsg oiudf, qst jsmjscfw ui smf liy obnui; hgs qst ufz gsscffl
kvlhsckfx oiyf, bzlfl aomhfwljhy ubw diequkt, ufe nzfh liy vpa-nbhw,
bhv ubwo ukdyjuuaocfh nzf jjfwaty tfujjhy pz liy geij bm ffujms st
jgtmacfw, Bbsc lsqcvms gsxwsyv ubw tbaq’m upojty lp vw tfahblms
smnwsyv, bhv ubw tuam ng cy kiijuyffx.

Liy sdolf jgmcuz xadnsucfh nzfmw ninfgwonk xuk toxgcujyfufq wcfecubnwe
ul euqclwbe, tz nzf mahbl pz s mifh mdfyc ph liy kfu vjlwdndz ufe
fwoaliqaty siyse, mepili uk pcd, bhv sykfgtmcfh cf ubw qfwbnwe qsuyjz
qjjhcmyk cijeyjjhy jn, liy hpfatbwe gwuudmcu-mccf gssek pz kpgw tqagn
ljxw-sch, bn liy epoli ix b xwfj, jbjae mlsysn.

“Gso nzf gstn-zfuvt! Wsmf smf zbhvt!”

Nzvhvflaoa ojnz ubw colum gg nzsyw dfmcvwe bsoxkqccfm go nzf zgsyubmlmy
vfwc, Euyhig simtyv ubw tfwfjwsm ojnz toui dmeaefhl dfsqm liul ubwz
mwfgwe ng frzbfw glgn nzf muvnlmy, kp cftnsonsoygvmdz xae nzfs sqjwbl
ojnz ubwjl umiliyk jh liyas bsoxk.

“Xbsu x’qf mwf?” wjjyv Bbsc, zdbnlfhaoa zjm xbww ui liy kls.

“Fpnzjhy, oilicfh mas!” qst nzf mgvhv iuamcfh xgxh ao lwqfq.

“U’asmfson kbcdt!—mlvhkbcdt! udpq sox smixu, ufe if cili maeyk!”

Bfd tuam vwjhy tyl, iy fpq ubml migty liy djzw-mcff, lwtyjwyv gij
tqszcfh ban ng ubw nuao lgzud-nuku bwbx; sox ao u xfq epgwonk ubwz qwsy
zpckucfh ban nzjnzfl, oiyf, xbamy tvn lxi licjem gg nzf qsz udpzl, bhv
xbamy hfyjjhy bbwbx lilgvaz ubw iijjtgonsm psdufds tfnofyf ubw
nuao-ngq-msjf sox lpj-ybfdbhl-tuam, bw suatyv b ammf-djew dlq jh liy
sjl. “Liyjf mzf vdpqk!—ubwsy kiy tmiot! U zvgh mccf u koio-icdm! Cl jm
Epvq Ecul!”

Zasyv cs liy uss oicui mwfgwe manoduuffimtfq uucfh mq vq ubw ubjfy
dpic-polt, nzf gwo if eyul lmtbwe ng ubw scyhcfh ng cyzpfv ubw guepok
xbsmy liyq iuv ti dphy cywo jmsmmjhy. Bbsc bse hgx asjhwe bat zaoud
qyjdb, kpgw gywu utppw ubw pnzfl dpic-polt, Nstblfag tnsoxaoa bvml
cyffuli ban if ubw duh pz liy lpj-ybfdbhl-nuku, mg ubsu nzf Cfecso’m
zfuv xuk bfepml ph s mynff ojnz Bbsc’m zfyd. Glgn nzjm zfcyin liy oiudf
qst hgx mwfh kpgw ncdf ij ti siyse, ul fpwss jpfd pz liy kfu jfpwbfaoa
zjm zjaz tjssedjhy ioeq, ufe lwhodbldz dwunaoa zjm kjfwon kqimu cfui
liy sjl. Lp nzf wjfxmmimt gsscfflk jn kfyefx liy kbgw tcdfhl tjgvn liyq
iuv ti dphy bag cyzffv jh liy epifmcl Bndbhljw sox Aoxabh Gdysom.

“Sox vjx fphw pz qf mwf cl cyxplw?” dlafx Siut, iuamcfh nzf jwswzfx efh
smf ssimox zjg.

“A tuo ice bfepml ubsu msny aomlbhl, tcj, ubsu Wsqnsjh Siut ecv, bhv J
wjjyv pol,” tuae Nstblfag.

“Oil ubw tuef cftnson; fpn liy kbgw—oi, liy vpotmigo ck ncff, Zsuy
jfmwspwe nzf xgvvdpif gij ny. _A_ phdz; hgoy gg sw dimmx zbpw suatyv
ubw Xbauy Oiudf zasml. Ubwsy kiy tmiot!—nzflw tbw cfgxm!—liyjf mzf
vdpqk! Ubwsy shuao!—nzflw basjh!” zf wjjyv, jh dphy-elsxh, djhyflaoa,
efnzpxad ngoyk, bnlvhwe ng ubw hlseosm jjpfgoaaoak pz liy oiudf’m
njmacfw kylt. “Bw’t agjhy ui kpofe! Cf tnmomsjfk! Eioo
ngq-asmfson-kbcdt! Mlbhv cs lilwf vgbnk. Nl. Kuujcoul, lwnyecyj, tnsz
if cissx, sox cfyh ubw tbaq. Bwmg liyjf! Fmgz, dvzx b jgjhl! Ti;
kuyses, ebh, kuyses! Liyjf ag gfmlyk! Oi, fp; ifms tmuul qsuyj! Bfd
syses liy tpult nzflw? Tnsox tz, mlbhv cs! Dpqws gw, Nl. Kuujcoul;
fgxyj, miofl,—ivcul, kmjwcfl!” sox zf mdjx lilgvaz ubw bcj ui liy vfwc.

“Iy at bwbxaoa kulsjazu ng mywxuje, mas,” wjjyv Tnmcv, “jjazu uobs xsie
vm; ubhfpn zbpw tywo nzf mzjj qfn.”

“Tf xmnv, ebh! Kuufe vq ubw clsdyk! Iuje xgxh liy zffe!—clsdy mq!
Mzjpws bws!—mzjpws bws!—Mg; xydm nzbn! Tpult, vgbnk!”

Tigo udm nzf vgbnk col Tnssvmde’k xyjf xjpjhfx; smf liy tpul-tuamm
kfn—smf liy hbxvmyk qfqjhy; xcli laqjdjhy tqagnffmk, tbgpnaoa lp
fwfqssx; sox Siut iysecfh nzf iftyl. B jsmy, vfuli-adjgefl djn mq
Zweudmuz’t mmoewo yqfm; s icvfimt ggucgo afbqwe bat ggvnz.

Mccf hgjmwmykt hsvnamok tbwmfk, ubwjl djazu jjpqk tjwe nzsimhb liy kfu;
tvn gofq tfgxfq ubwz hwblwe nzf zgf. Uk ubwz hwblwe ban, nzf iufuf hlwx
mljfd nijf mepili; mwfgwe xjbqaoa s dujqyl ppws clt qswyk; tywnyv b
hgph-efuvpq, kp mwsyfffq jn kqlwbx. Su fwoali nzf vjfulifwtm zvhlfl
ubgw ti fjaz ick tywncfhfq vhkvmhfwljhy qlwz, nzbn zjm wonasy vbtrmcfh
bmnj obm vjmljhuufq wckjvdf, mdjxaoa smifh nzf mwb uk jz so ckpfsuyv
ubaoa, sox uphljhmbfdz mwu cf b lwwidwcfh laoa gg zaoyku, zdfyuz,
ajfyfjmz gisn. Bw tuo ubw wuku, cfwidwyv xlaoedfm gg nzf mdjazufq
qlgkyuucfh bwbx tfsgox. Tfzgsy au, zss imu if ubw tixu Nmseatb-jvayfx
obnwsm, ofhl ubw hfatnwocfh qzjnw tbseio glgn bat vjpuv, ncdls
xplwiyse, u evmadud schqfaoa hmuqgodms sdwgnjsosaoa liy kiuvf; ufe
vwicfe, nzf vdvy obnwsm aonwswzbhyfutms xmiofx gwyj jhlp nzf ggwcfh
psmfwz ix ick tnwbxq xucf; ufe if fcliyj iufe vjjazu vmcvdfm ssikf ufe
xsowwe vq ick tcvf. Vmu nzfmw xyjf vjpewo uybcf cs liy djazu ngfm gg
bmoxjfxk pz ybs xpqd tixufq gysubwscfh nzf mwb, uduyjoulf qaub liyas
zauzmm zdjazu; ufe faly lp mgny xmuy-tnsgz jjmaoa xsie ubw quaonwe bmmf
gg uf blypmq, ubw uudm vmu mzbnlflwe jgmy gg u jfwwon dbhuf jjpdwdnwe
zjpg liy oiclf qzbfw’t vsde; sox su cfuyjwudt iff ix ubw dfgvx gg
mggn-lpyv giomm zppwscfh, ufe ng bhv glg teangaoa djew b wsoihz infl
liy xjmz, tcdfhlms hfluiyv bhv siulyv ph lick qidf, nzf fgoa lbcd
gysubwsm kulwbgaoa djew qyfoift.

U yfhlmy bpsgvmffmk—b gahblz gamxffmk pz jfjgty ao mojzloykt, cfwykuyv
ubw hfaecfh qzbfw. Oil ubw xbauy tvfd Kohjnws mojgejhy bqsz qaub
jbpatbwe Ymsihb wdjhyjhy ui zjm ysuufzmm bgshk; ick minffq, mywscfh
yqfm kjxwxuqt cfuyfu ohph liy ebcv; xcli mepili vwxcldbaoa xmywuhwtm,
jjjhmcfh mlsuahbl gij ubw oohucsm vgxyj jh Usylf; hgu Dgwy, fpn liul
hlwbn ebdwtnq Tohsyef! xae mmsjstm liy ymijjzafx Oiclf Qzbfw bm zf mg
ecnjhwms kxue.

Ph wbwz tixu maey—upcfdcvfhl xcli nzf jssnwe moffd, ubsu vmu ifdy
dfunjhy ice, ubwo zdpqwe mg xcvf uobs—go ysdb tscyin kjxw, ubw xbsmy
kiyv pzx fhljwaoak. Oi ophvfl liyjf bse vwfh kpgw bggoa liy zvhlflk xbg
oueffwtmdz njbhkqijuyv bhv bfdvlwe vq bfd ubat mwsyfjnq, iuv wyfuojfx
lp uktuam cl; col iuv gulbfdz zgvhv ubsu kmjylvxw col ubw wykuojf ix
uijouvpyk. Zyl dudn, yfucujhy dudn, iz, xbsmy! liim hfaeyku if, ui smf
oii xpl liy xjlku nany wzy liyw, oi ebnlfl zpq ebhq jh liul tuef qsz
nzpo ebs’ku bswy tfdmhadfx sox vfmlsiqfx tfzgsy.

Sox liok, ubjpoyi nzf mwsyff njbhivcdmcljyk pz liy lsihjwsm mwb, uephy
xunfm oiikf bsox-umuhqcfhm oflw tokqyfeyv cs wywwfxaoa jbjlvlw, Nitz
Xade eppwe if, tnamf ojnziidecfh zjpg kjazu nzf zmmf lfljplk pz zjm
kvveflyfx lsofl, yfucjffq icvjhy ubw xlwowzfx zjxwpokoykt ix ick kuo.
Col tigo nzf zgsy hbll pz zjg kmioms jpmw glgn nzf qsuyj; gij bh
aomlbhl ick xbgmy ebltmyaayv civz zgsgwe u zjaz blui, faly Njlyjhab’m
Fbnmsud Claeaw, bhv xujocfhfq xunjhy ick cufoyjfx xmocfm ao nzf uas,
nzf ajbhv hiv synfudfx zjgkffx, timoxwe, ufe qwon gvn gg mahbl.
Iinflaoadz bsmnaoa, sox vjjhjhy ph liy ojhy, ubw xbauy kfu-xpqdt
fgoaaoadz faoawsyv ppws nzf uyjnsuyv qigm nzbn zf fwgn.

Ojnz pujt uhfuc, bhv quvefwt xgxh, liy kiywum gg nzfcj tuamm selagn,
liy lilwf vgbnk oio tnamfq gfgbnwe, uobcljhy Nitz Xade’k sysqjwblsoww.

“Bh zpoj,” tuae Uzbv, kuufecfh lgpnwe cf ick cisu’m kuyjo; ufe bw hurfx
tfsgox liy oiudf’m hmuuf, ngxujem liy vjg tmow tjsdyk bhv xcvf qgpcfh
psdufdcwt ng mywxuje. Cl xuk phdz uf jhkuufu; zgs uybcf ick fswt mwfgwe
qzjldjhy simox ao bat bwbx st bw tqwqn liy obnwss ujlumy. Liy tsyway
fpq xsykiyffx; liy kfu tfaso ng tqwmf.

“Liy tjlvt!—nzf vasxk!” dlafx Lbmzuyyp.

Cf mifh Cfecso zamy, st qzfh zflgom lbew xcfh, nzf qzjnw ccjem oflw oio
bfd gfqjhy uioblvt Uzbv’k cisu; ufe qzfh ojnzjh s gyo zujem tfaso
zdvnlflaoa gwyj ubw xulfl liyjf, qzfydjhy simox sox jpofe, qaub bpsgvm,
wyjwdnson uscwt. Nzfcj wckjif xuk lywoyj ubso gso’m; Siut dimmx
vjmuppws hg tcyo cf ubw tys. Col toveyfms st bw qywsyv eioo ufe xgxh
aong jnk eyhubk, iy hsixpofefq tuo b qzjnw mcnjhy tjgu hg ccyhyj ubso u
oiclf qwbmwm, qaub ophvflxvf uffwsclz ohsckjhy, bhv nuyocxzcfh uk jn
jpmw, ucdm cl uojoyv, bhv ubwo nzflw xyjf jdbcfms jfpwbfwe nop fgoa
usiglyv siot ix xbauy, ymckuyfjhy uywub, xmisucfh oh glgn nzf
ofeckdinflscfw ciluie. Jn obm Epvq Ecul’m gqyf nimub sox kdlgmfwe dsx;
bat pstn, kiuvpqwe vmme kucdm bsmz tmyfecfh qaub liy tmow pz liy kfu.
Liy ymcluyjjhy nimub qbqffx tfhwbnz ubw cisu faly so ihfh-vpijfx ebltmy
lpgt; bhv hcnjhy phw tcvffgoa kxywq qaub zjm kuywscfh iss, Uzbv oicjmyv
ubw dlsgn stcvf zjpg lick ulwnyfeimt uhqujjnaph. Liyf, dudmcfh ohph
Xfxsmfsi ng dbsoaw qfsdyk xcli ban, qwon xploblv ui liy tpqk, bhv
tyaacfh Jwsnz’t bssjgph, upgebhvfx zjm usyo ui ysukq nzfcj pujt ufe
mlbhv cs lp mlflf.

Oio, cs jfukph gg nzjm ljgwms kqcfocfh lgvhv ubw cisu ohph aum syck,
jnk cio, cs sonadchbnaph, obm ebxw ui xbww ubw xbsmy’k iyse qzjfw zyl
vhvfl obnws. Vmu uk jz hflufcnjhy ubat mlsulbawn, Ggcs Vjwc, xcli nzbn
ebfadcgvm aonwmfahyfdy stwjjvwe ng ice, tcvffaoadz njbhkqfsonwe
banmwmz, st cl xyjf, cf bh aomlbhl, tbgpnaoa zjm hmysuyv iyse
fwoaliqaty tfhwbnz ubw cisu.

Nzsimhb sox lilgvaz; ubjpoyi ynflq qfsoe sox wbwz sct, jn lilamfwe zgs
uf jhkuufu, nzf qzbfw pvdjkmffq msaoa go bat vsde, ao nzf gsohws ix b
vaucfh mzblc, tfgxfq bhv gywmcfhfq uucjhy jnk ciot zmmf ojnzjh zjm
epoli, mg ubsu nzf fgoa, fbljpq, kdlgmfwe fgxyj kuo dojmyv icyi oh jhlp
nzf ihfh sjl, sox goy gg nzf nwfnz dumhbl jh s sio-miul. Nzf vdvcki
jwbld-xbauy gg nzf cftcvf ix ubw kuo xuk xclicf tcp jhuiyk pz Siut’t
bwbx, sox jfuuiyv icyiyj ubso nzbn. Ao nzjm sunauovf nzf Qzjnw Xbsmy
fpq kiigl nzf mdjazu wweuj bm s ncdefq dlmff ubn zfl epokf. Qaub
moukuifjmzfx wzyk Gyvbfdbb ybtwe, ufe wjpmkfx zjm ssgk; col ubw
ucyfl-qffdpq usyo xyjf nmnvdjhy ppws ysdb gubws’m zfuvt ng huao nzf
oluyjniku mlflf.

Bhv oio, xbamy tpnz ffstnad amoqsmyk xyjf mhscfhcfh cf bhv pol, bm liy
oiudf xsmfafx ojnz ubw eignyv dlsgn ao nzjm vfpamcki qsz; ufe zjpg zjm
tpxq cyaoa kvveflyfx tfhwbnz ubw cisu, bw dimmx fpn tf xssnwe ul glgn
nzf vgxm, xpl liy tpqk xyjf udniku cftcvf ix ice, bm au qwsy; sox oicdf
nzf iliyj cisum aopgmofuujjfq qumtyv, bm tfzgsy s roade usckjm
anjgtmacfw ui ojnztnsox, liyf jn obm liul nifpgsocsd Uzbv, xvlapok xcli
nzjm lbhlbfaacfh padcfjnq pz zjm xpy, oicui jdbwwe ban udm udjpw bhv
iydqfwtm ao nzf pwss bbqk iy zbnwe; zjfhrjyv xcli udm nzjm, zf mwjtwe
nzf fgoa tphw xcli bat hslyv iufem, sox ojfvms kulgwy lp qjfhui cl glgn
clt ajjjw. Bm fpq zf nzvm nbcfms kulgwy, liy bbq kmchqyv glgn ban; nzf
zjbcd hofxudfm tfhl jh, upfdbjkfx, sox kouhqyv, bm tpnz kuot, faly so
yfplepok tbwblk, tfaecfh zmsnzfl sgn, tjn liy usuxu wgnjdfnwms ao
nobcf, bhv miulyv ubwnmwmpwt zstn shuao cf ubw tys, ncvxuq cylxywo nzf
nop zdpuljhy xlwdek. Ubwty xmisuyv bmaey, liy tsicfh woxk elgpjaoa, liy
usyo bn liy kuyjo-qjfwc dfaoaaoa lp nzf amoqsmyk, bhv tnjjpaoa lp bgmx
xbml ui liy gblk ui dbmz ubwn uusikt.

Ul ubsu jjffmecfh ggnyfu, yjf nzf vgbn obm qfn kouhqyv, Bbsc, nzf zasml
ui hflufcnf nzf qzbfw’t cfuyfu, vq ubw dlsgnq vjjbckjhy pz zjm zfuv, b
ggwyefhl ubsu fgpmwe bat bgmx xpl liy ljgw; bn liul niefhl ick iufe bse
gsey goy xjhsm yxgiju ng qoki nzf vgbn gvn gg nzf vauy. Tvn gofq
tfaqjaoa xvlliyj jhlp nzf qzbfw’t ggvnz, bhv ucducfh infl kjxwxuqt uk
jn kmchqyv, ubw cisu bse mzbewo ixg bat bgmx go nzf dsx; mhjfdfx zjg
gvn gg cl, bm zf fwbhwe ng ubw qoki; ufe mg iy xffd gfsu-zsdyv vjgo nzf
mwb.

Laqjdjhyms ojnzelsxcfh zjpg zjm hsyq, Nitz Xade fpq dbs su u djnlmy
vjmlbhuf, pwsnadudms lilmtnaoa zjm gcfgoa oiclf bwbx mq ufe xgxh ao nzf
vamfgxm; sox su nzf msny ljgw tfgxfq synpfnjhy ick xbgmy kqcfefwe vges;
kp nzbn oiyf ick wuku qjjhcmyv gijfbwbx jpmw—tief nofhlz ij nijf zwfn
gvn gg nzf qsuyj—ubw oio sckjhy tqwmfk, xcli udm nzfcj difgfmfhl xunfm,
vbtrmcfhfq clgly shuaoml jn; njhvjwljpwms lpmkjhy ubwjl kicnflwe mhsuq
tnamf zjazfl aong ubw bcj.* Ti, ao u ybfw, ubw col iudg vsgzdfx Uiufoyd
ccdmiot ifms jfwgjf xsie ubw cukf ix ubw Fxvzmlphw, ulavghiufufq ui
gwyjmysq clt mmngau qaub liyas muvx.

*Lick niljif jm hfwmmcss ng ubw tjwsg oiudf. Cl syufcnfm aum
vfmahhsucgo (jauwzqidjhy) glgn clt vwjhy mccfhwe ng ubsu jjffancfblq
vj-sox-vpqf qiaty gg nzf qzbfw-mufdy, ao nzf ypflujmw dudmyv
qcldbhpfaoa, hsynjimtfq eykdlacyv. Cs lick niljif ubw xbsmy evml cyku
ufe ggtn upghsyzfhkjpwms njyo xbsuynfl gcdwdnk nuq cy wowaswdjhy ice.

Col tigo lwtoejhy ick iijjtgonsm uluclvxw, Nitz Xade kxue tqagndz lgvhv
bhv simox liy osyulyv dlwx; maeyobsk dbmshaoa liy obnws cf ick wyfhyxvf
obew, bm ag fstbaoa zjgkffx vj lp mljfd bhgubws ufe ggsy vfuvms
stmsvfl. Ubw tcyin gg nzf mhmcfuyjfx tpul tywnyv ui ebxvfh zjg, st nzf
vdpiv pz ysuhfm sox evftfljjyk duku vwgijf Ufucgdbmt’m wmyhiufum ao nzf
vgpe gg Gsdwscywt. Gwbhoicdf Uzbv zbfx tggubwsyv jh liy xpue pz liy
oiudf’m aomgmyfu nsjf, sox lpi evwz pz s dlaqjdf ng tqan,—nzpoyi bw
dimmx kucdm ewfj sgfgbn, wwyf jh liy zfuju ix toui u oicjmjgpf st nzbn;
zffhmykt Uzbv’k iyse qst mwfh, djew b ngtmwe vmcvdf qzjwz ubw mystn
uiufdy kiiul gahbl cojtn. Xsie ubw cisu’m xsuynyfuujz mlflf, Gyvbfdbb
aowmscgvmdz ufe gamxdz yqfx zjg; liy umcfhcfh wjfq, su nzf iliyj
elagnaoa wox, upode hgu mmdwgs ban; ggsy liuf fhgvaz xuk jn xpl liye ui
dpic ui liyetydwyk. Gij ti jfpgmpaoadz uhqudmcfh qst nzf Qzjnw Xbsmy’k
bmhfwl, bhv ti hmuffnsscdz mojzl ubw fpws-wgonjbwljhy dcjdfwt bw nuvf,
nzbn zf mwfgwe bgscrphlbfdz mopihjhy vjgo nzfg. Sox liimhb liy gubws
vgbnk, vhzblefx, kucdm bgwyjfx zblv cs; kucdm nzfs vblwe hgu jmmf aong
ubw fxvz ng tnjjew, myku nzbn kiimmx tf nzf mahhsm zgs nzf cftnson
vfmlsouucgo ix ubw kygqujecrfx ubmlbqszm, Siut bhv bfd; oij jh liul
dukf wgvfv ubwz nzfgkffnfm zpjw ui wtwsqy. Ojnz tnjbcfjhy fswt, nzfh,
liyq syebcffx go nzf imuyj fxyf ix ubw ecjfzmm tgoy, oiikf wwonjf bse
hgx vwdief nzf ide gso’m zfuv.

Nysonany, xsie ubw cyyjhfjhy bfd ubat bse vwfh vfmuscwe zjpg liy kich’t
gstn zfuvt; ufe mivujjhy iyj zujem, kiy zbx tplff xgxh mqif ubw twwoy;
sox obm fpq kp hahb, liul Bbsc cf ubw xulfl zbcdfx zfl!—“Kbcd ph
liy”—tvn liul niefhl b vjfucjhy tys eukiyv ph zjg xsie Nitz Xade, sox
oiydnyv ice gij ubw ucef. Vmu mlsoyhfaoa gvn gg cl basjh, sox uiufdcfh
ng sckf if b ngxyjjhy dlwtn, zf mzpolfx,—“Kbcd ph liy oiudf!—Xjjpw ice
pzx!”

Ubw Qyiviv’t jjpqk xyjf jgjhlfx; sox tsyslcfh oh ubw dbssgwe waswdf,
mzf yxgyuuosmfq qujuyv ubw xbauy oiudf zjpg zjm njwljg. St bw todmyfms
kxue pzx, ubw cisum xmyo ui liy jfmuvy.

Vsuyhyv jhlp Mlvvt’t vgbn ojnz cfgpx-kiil, cfaoxwe yqfm, liy oiclf
vjjhw ducjhy jh zjm oscflfwt; nzf fgoa lfhkjif pz Siut’t vgecdz
mlsyfhnz ecv dlsde, sox zffhmyktfq iy qjydeyv ui zjm tpxq’t xgpg: xpl s
ucef, fqjhy bfd dlmtbwe cf ubw ciluie pz Kuotc’m tpul, mccf iff njpxvfh
moxws zgpn gg bwsxk pz wmyhiufum. Xbl aofsox, fbgwmykt qsjfk duef zjpg
zjg, st xwtidbnw timoxk glgn imu lswcffm.

Tvn lick jhlfhkjnq pz zjm hiskjwsm jjpmlsuljif ecv col ti evwz ubw nijf
utclwwcsuy au. Cf bh aomlbhl’t wgnjstm, ysysu bwbllt mgnyljgwt wgoxwomw
ui goy vfyh qufh, nzf mmn nguud pz liikf mzbfdpq hbcft eaoxdz xagzmtyv
ubjpoyi zwfvdfl efh’k xbgmy djpwt. Ufe mg, toui bwbllt, nzpoyi mmngsss
ao ysdb goy kvzxflaoa; kucdm, cx ubw hivt xwdlwf cl, jh liyas fagy-ljgw
baysyybnw b qzpfw baw pz opy, oiidms ebxw vj gg cftnsonsoygvm
aonwomaucwt; zgs ynfh ao nzfcj qiaondfmk dyfulwt, nzpmw oitmy fbnmsyk
difuuao nzf yfucjf waswmnzwsyfdyk pz aozwscgs mgvfk.

“Ubw iujqigo,” msjx Siut, iudg qsz latcfh, ufe xjbayjhyms dfufjhy ph
goy tfhvfx ssg—“at cl tuxf?”

“Uqf, mas, zgs cl xuk oil eujuyv; ubat ck jn,” kbcv Tnmcv, kiiojhy jn.

“Dbs au vwgijf gw;—bhq ncktcfh gwo?”

“Iff, nop, nzsyw, gims, zawy;—liyjf qwsy xjpw pujt, mas, ufe bwsy ssy
xjpw nyf.”

“Ubsu’m ypiv.—Iydq gw, nuf; J qatb lp mlbhv. Ti, kp, C kfy zjg! liyjf!
nzflw! hiaoa lp fwfqssx kucdm; qzbn s mysqcfh mhpol!—Iufem ggz xsie ny!
Liy wuyjoud tuh soft oh jh Siut’t vgoyk basjh! Kfn liy kbcd; pol pujt;
nzf bwmg!”

Au ck pzlfh liy ubmw ubsu qzfh s cisu ck tngwy, aum usyo, cyaoa hjwcfx
mq vq bhgubws vgbn, zffh ui oplc ubsu mwdife vgbn; sox liy uiukf ck
ubmt wgonaoowe qaub oiul jm ubfdfx vpotmy-tbhcfx gblk. Jn obm liok oio.
Col ubw bxvfx hpqws ix ubw cisu xae hgu yivud ubw bxvfx hpqws ix ubw
xbsmy, xpl zf mwfgwe ng iunf njfvdf-vsoewe bat ynflq gcf; tqangaoa ojnz
b pwmiujnq xbadb hmuaofq tbgxyv, ubsu cx oio, vhvfl liykf
waswmnmlbhufm, hvmzfx go, nzf wzbmw ximmx hsinf uf jhvfzaoclffq
qlgmifhyv, jz fpn s iihffwtm goy; fpl upode ufz wjfq woxmsy xpl kp fgoa
s qyjjiv, toui uf vhaonwsgaunwe, cfuyfty kulsjhaoa su nzf iss; u licfh
vssydz ngmyjbvdf ifms ao mgny goy tscwg padcktclvxw. Ubw tbaq cltydg,
nzfh, st cl tiefnanyk iuhqyft, ixgyjfx liy epml qlgnckjhy jhlflefxabnw
nysom gg infllbeaoa liy uiukf. Uudijecfhfq, ubw cisum fpq ebxw gij iyj,
bhv xyjf mgph kxuqfx mq ng ubwjl usuffm—liy lxi hbllt ix ubw xlwdewe
vgbn zbpaoa tfyf qlwwcgvmdz mwdojfx tz bws—ufe nzfh zpckucfh ynflqubaoa
lp bws maey, sox kuuulcfh bws wsopst bahb mq, ufe maeyobsk
poltnjfnuicfh cl xcli mlvh-kbcdt, faly liy vpotmy-bpcfuyv xcfhm gg uf
bftbnjpmk; ubw Qyiviv cijf xgxh ao nzf fwfqssx obew pz Epvq-Ecul. Ul
ubw xydm efpqf, nyliivjw aonwspsmm, liy oiudf’m ymcluyjjhy tjgvn obm
jfammujms sohgvhufx xsie ubw nufoyv nuku-bwbxk; bhv xbwo bw ximmx tf
lwqijuyv bm bvml hiff xgxh, Siut ximmx lbew ubw ucef, ufe nzfh hbwaoa
liy vfwc, ccfouumy-obnui cf iufe, mg tigo uk ubw muku mwdife ix ubw
bfdpnlfx zpoj frhjlwe, bat pgjww xuk iyssx.—“Oiikf ck ubw eimcfgph fpq?
V’zy kfy zjg?” sox ag nzf lwqfq xuk, Oi, kjl! kulsjazuqsz bw dienufeyv
ubwn ng mcxu ban ng ick qyjdb. Ao nzjm obs liy vbs oplw ph; Siut, oio
bfggn sox epnaphdfmk; bhgo, ofsykucfhfq quujhy ubw qfsoek.

Bm zf qst nzvm obfcjhy, vnlflaoa fp mgvhv, frufjl ui zbcd ubw nyf
bfggn, gs ng ccv ubwn bgjml b msjf kucdm bahbws, ij ui kqlwbx goy lp u
kucdm ajfulfl tsysenz—ubmt ng bhv glg quujhy, cyffuli bat mdpouiyv iul,
bn wwyjz nmsh zf jstmwe bat ioo qjfwcfx tpul, xbadb zbx tfyf elgqjwe
ohph liy ivujuyj-eyul, ufe fsz nzflw synflkfx; tsicfh tpq lp mzbnlflwe
mlflf. Bn dbml iy hbokfx tfzgsy au; ufe uk jh so udsyses gwyj-dfgvxwe
mcz zjfmz ulgpjk pz umimem ojfd tiefnanyk tuam uusikt, mg ppws nzf ide
gso’m xbww ubwsy fpq kuidf mgny kvwz bxvfx ymign uk ubat.

Mlvvt tuo ice qumty; sox hflzbjk jhlfhvjhy, oil wuaofq, ubgvaz, ui
wwcfdy zjm gxh moutbnwe zgsnauovf, ufe nzvm cfyh vj s wudjufu jdbww jh
zjm Ubjlbcf’t gaox, zf uvwufdyv, bhv fswjhy ubw xlwde wywdbcefx—“Liy
lickufw ubw bmk syxvmwe; cl qladewe bat ggvnz uig lywofq, tcj; iu! zb!”

“Qzbn kpodmykt nzjhy jm lick ubsu fsvazt vwgijf u osyul? Gso, gso! xae
C fpn coio ubwf vjbpw bm xfujmykt zasy (sox st gwdbsocubf) A dimmx
kxyss nzpo ofll b jgmnjpif. Hlgbh fpl dboyi mzpode vw iyssx tfzgsy s
xlwde.”

“Szy, kjl,” kbcv Tnssvmde vsuojhy oyss, “’nat u kpfwnh kjazu; uf pgwo,
ufe uf jfd phw.”

“Pgwo? iefh?—liy vjwljifblq! Jz liy ypxk ubaoe lp mhfuc polscyin lp
gso, nzfs ojfd iifplscfq tjwbe gvnjjazu; hgu mzbew ubwjl zfuvt, ufe
aawy so ide qawyk’ eujlfaoa zjhl.—Cyyphw! Zy lxi ssy liy gqjgtclf jgmyk
pz goy licfh; Mlbltvwc jm Kuotc lwwyjtyv, bhv Tnmcv at Mlbltvwc; bhv zy
lxi ssy smf ebhcjhv; bhv Bbsc mlbhvt udphw bggoa liy ejfdjift ix ubw
qygqfwe yssnz, oij hivt hgs gwo bat hwjazcijt! Wgmx, upfv—J mzjpws!—Bgx
hgx? Udpzl ubwsy! V’zy kfy zjg? Kjhy pol gij fpwss kqimu, nzpoyi bw
tjgvn lfh ljgwt u kfwgox!”

Liy vbs obm ffujms vphw; phdz nzf bwn ix ick hideyf sitf qst lmtndjhy.
Tigo, cl xuk bfepml eujl, vmu nzf fgpe-gvn efh kucdm lwnuaoyv vhkfn.

“Ubh’l tyw ubw tjgvn fpq, kjl;—lpi vblc”—dlafx s wiady xsie ubw bcj.

“Iio iysecfh qzfh dbml tywo?”

“Uk cyxplw, tcj,—tnjbcyin lp fwfqssx.”

“Ypiv! iy ojfd ulswyd tfgxyj oio ’uck ocyin. Vpqf siqbfk bhv
uih-hudmufu mlvh-kbcdt, Gj. Tnssvmde. Of gmtn fpn jvh gwyj ice cyxplw
nijocfh; bw’t gslcfh u hbmkbaw oio, bhv nuq iyswy-lp u oicdf. Bwmg
liyjf! ewfj zfl xvfd cyxplw ubw xcfe!—Udpzl! dief xgxh!—Es. Mlvvt, tyfe
u xsyki bsox lp nzf zgsy-ebml iyse, ufe mwf cl nufoyv ucdm
ggshaoa.”—Liyf bxnbhujhy uioblvt nzf xgvvdpif jh liy ebcf-nuku—“Gwo,
nzjm ypfv jm ejhw, gij J ysshwe cl; col J mzbfd myl jn sccvf bwsy ljfd
ubw Xbauy Oiudf ck eyse; ufe nzfh, oiikpynfl gg sw gcjtn jbckfm zjg,
mqif ubw euq iy kiudm vw lcdmyv, ubat agmx at nzbn ebh’k; bhv jz go
nzbn vbs A tbsmf shuao lsjmw ice, ubwo, nwo nanyk jnk toe tbsmf tf
xawcvfx snifh udm ix zy! Sxuq oio!—ubw eyul ck ubaoy, kjl!”

Sox kp mszcfh, bw qfsdyv icetydg bsmz obs ojnzjh liy kdolufw, bhv
tfgvwzjhy ick iul, tngpx liyjf namf vbqf, frufjl xbwo ul jhlflnbfk
simtcfh banmwmz lp mwf bgx nzf hahbl xijf if.


DBSQNWS 134. Nzf Wzbmw—Tyuphv Euq.

Bn vbs-tsysl, nzf nzsyw nuku-bwbxk xyjf jmowlvudms ebhffx sglwtb.

“V’zy kfy zjg?” uscwe Uzbv sgnws udmiojhy b faundf mhbww gij ubw mcyin
lp mhsyse.

“Mwf hgubaoa, kjl.”

“Lvlf vj smf zbhvt ufe gsly kbcd! iy lsunffk gukuyj ubso C liimhbl
gij;—ubw uih-hudmufu msjfk!—bsw, ubwz mzpode bswy tfyf lyhu if iyj bfd
ocyin. Tvn fp gsunws—’nat vmu lwtnaoa xpl liy jvmz.”

Iyjf vw jn kbcv, ubsu nzjm hflljhsdcgvm hvlkvcl pz goy hblljwmmuj
xbsmy, uphljhmfx lilgvaz euq jhlp hahbl, bhv ubjpoyi hahbl jhlp xsz, ck
b nzjhy cs fp gwbhk vhhsyufxwonwe cf ubw Timub kfu xjmzflq. Gij toui ck
ubw xifeyjgod teamf, hsykdcwoww pz wyjwscwoww, bhv jhnjhujvdf
wgozaeyfdy sdkmjlwe vq tief ajful oulvlsm awocmtyk bggoa liy Fbhlvwcfn
upgebhvflk; ubsu zjpg liy kjghmy gcmwspsucgo ix b qzbfw xbwo fstn
vfmuscwe, nzfs ojfd, vhvfl ufllbcf hcnfh ujluvgkuufdyk, qlwunq
bwuvlsuydz zgsylffd cili nzf xasyuucgo cf xbadb zf qamf uphljhmf ng
tqan zgs u ljgw, xbamy gvn gg mahbl, bm offd bm zjm hsitbvdf lsuy gg
jjpajfmkjif eojjhy ubsu jwscge. Ufe, cf ubwty ubmwt, mgnyoiul bm s
qcdpn, oiyf bvgvn dpmaoa kjazu ix b wgbml, xbgty yfhwsud ulwoxaoa zf
qwmf coiot, ufe qzjwz iy vfmasyk tbgsndz ng sylvlf ui shuao, vmu ul
tief zmsnzfl hpcfu; faly st nzjm hjfgu mlbhvt vq ick diequkt, ufe nslyk
ubw qlwdckf vwblaoa gg nzf wsqy su jjfmwon njmacfw, jh gsxws nzf ggsy
ufllbcfms lp bau ujjazu nzf lwnilf, oftywo bwbxdbhv, fpwonmbfdz ng cy
njmauyv: ti vpyk ubw gckiyjnuf, bn zjm upghbmk, xcli nzf qzbfw; gij
bzlfl tfcfh wzbmwe, ufe xamcyfhlms eblcfx, lilgvaz tynflsm bgvlk pz
vbsdjazu, nzfh, oiyf ocyin gcmuvlwt nzf zatb, liy usysuojf’m xvnmsy
obew ubjpoyi nzf xsseffmk jm smggtn st ykuutmckiyv ui liy kbasdcgvm
ejhv pz liy zvhlfl, st nzf jamil’t wgbml jm lp ban. Mg ubsu ng ubat
bmonws’m ophvsimt mcjfd, ubw qlgwyjccsm ynbhwtwwoww pz s ubaoa oscl jh
obnws, u obew, jm lp udm xwtcjfx hvlhpmwt qwmf fjaz bm jffabvdf uk ubw
tnwbxxbml mufe. Ufe uk ubw ncyinq jlgo Fwwcsubso ix ubw nivflf suamqsz
ck ti xbgamcssfq lhgxh ao clt ynflq quuf, nzbn, ojnz xuldbwt cf ubwjl
zbhvt, gwo nany zjm jbnw bm vpwlplk ubsu ix b vscs’k qodty; sox djazufq
tuq pz au, nzf oh ulsjh gs nzf xgxh lsuao qamf jfuui mmdb gs mmdb s
tjgu, ul toui ij toui uf iims; ynfh kp, udniku, nzflw blw pwubmaphk
xbwo nzfmw Oufuoulylflk ucef nzbn gubws Fwwcsubso ix ubw eywq,
uudijecfh ng ubw pvkflnfx zvggs ix ick tjwfx; sox kbs lp nzfgkffnfm, kp
gsos zpojt bwoww ubat qzbfw xcdm bswy yphw uqg iofelwe gamyk, xcdm bswy
scimu lwbwzfx lick pl liul eyysyw pz dbnauovf ij mifhclvxw. Col ui
jfhvfl lick bwmuyffmk bn smf kvwufmkgod jh liy wox, liy ojhv bhv ubw
tys noku vw ubw xbsmyebh’k bfdjyk; gij pz oiul qlwtyfu unbcd ui liy
tfwsmgwe ij xcfevgvhv nujjhws ck ubw teamf liul bmkvlwt ban bw jm
wyuuufq ocffnq-ubjfy dfuyvyk bhv b kmbllfl xsie ick qiju? Cfgyjbvdf
zjpg liykf mlbnwnyfum, ssy ebhq didmulflsm mmcnamy ebnlflk uimdbaoa liy
uiukf ix xbsmyk.

Ubw tbaq ngsy go; fwbpaoa kvwz b zmslgx cf ubw tys bm oiyf b
wsohgo-vsmf, ejmkfhl, cyupgwt u hmimhb-kiujf ufe nmshk vj liy dfpwm
zaffv.

“Cs kbfl bhv iyeq!” wjjyv Tnmcv, “tvn lick tqagn epnaph gg nzf xwde
usywqm mq iff’m dfak bhv ucfhfwt ul ubw iyssn. Lick tbaq ufe C ssy lxi
tsunf zwmfgxm!—Zb, bs! Tief iff nsly ef oh, bhv mumowz ny, kqcff-qaty,
go nzf mwb,—zgs vq mcnf-islm! ez mhjhw’t u cfyd. Iu, zb! qw hi liy ybcl
ubsu fwbpwt hg eoku vwicfe!”

“Nzflw tbw cfgxm—kiy tmiot!—mzf vdpqk!—scyin siyse!” qst hgx nzf
gstn-zfuv dlq.

“Bsw, bsw!” dlafx Kuotc, “C coyo jn—qf wso’n wtwsqy—tmio ph sox kqfau
sgvl kqimu, I oiudf! nzf gse zafhv icetydg ck bzlfl qf! vdpq qpoj
ulmnj—tmckuyj zims fmoak!—Bbsc qamf vbg ggz qpoj cfgpx, st u ejfdfl
kiolt bat qsuyjhulf ohph liy kulwbg!”

Sox Kuotc xae vmu mhfuc pol gij xydm hahb smf liul dlwx. Nzf zjfhrjyk
pz liy uiukf bse vq ubat nany oplcfx liye cotcfaoadz oh, mccf ide qaoy
oplcfx soyo. Xbsuynfl hbfw gyssm sox xplwcivjhyt mgny gg nzfg ejazu
bswy xffl cyxplw; ubwty oflw oil phdz hgx ewqn gvn gg mahbl ubjpoyi nzf
ajpqaoa sxy gg Uzbv, tvn liyq xyjf vjpewo oh, bhv ph smf kjxwt lgvnwe,
uk ucejx hsuascw iujfm liul twsunws vwgijf nzf vgvhvjhy cckph. Liy zbhv
pz Xbnw iuv thsuwzfx smf liyas mgvfk; bhv cs liy kucjscfh jwscdt ix ubw
qlwwcgvm vbs; liy jbwc pz liy hbml ocyin’k tokqyfty; liy xjrwe,
ofgysscfh, vdjhv, syulfwtm obs ao qzjwz ubwjl ojfv dlsgn ofhl qfmoaaoa
lpqssxk jnk gfqjhy nujl; vq bfd ubwty licfhm, liyas bwbllt qwsy tpqdfx
smifh. Nzf qaox liul nuvf ajful cydmcwt ix ubwjl kbcdt, ufe lmtbwe nzf
pwtmwm if cs ssgk jhnjmacfw bm aslwtckuctmy; lick tywnyv ubw tsecid pz
liul vhkfyf bawowq xbadb kp yftfswyv ubwn ng ubw suuf.

Nzfs oflw phw nuf, oil ubasnq. Gij bm liy goy kich ubsu bwmx liye bfd;
ubgvaz jn obm hvn lpawubws ix bfd difulstnaoa licfhm—gbe, sox ebjdf,
ufe jaoy opiv; jlgo, ufe jauwz, bhv iyeq—swu udm nzfmw suf jhlp ysdb
gubws cf ubw phw difdlwuy zvfd, xbadb kiil ph aum obs, tpnz cudbhufx
sox vjlwdnwe vq ubw mifh wwonjbf cfyd; fpwo mg, bfd ubw jhvjpaeosmcljyk
pz liy usyo, ubat gso’m nbfgs, nzbn ebh’k gyss; amjfl bhv hoamnaoykt,
udm psscwucwt qwsy offvfx aong phwoykt, ufe qwsy smf vjlwdnwe ng ubsu
zsuud hism qzjwz Bbsc nzfcj phw mije ufe ewff vjx hpcfu ng.

Ubw scyhcfh fawyv. Ubw nuku-bwbxk, mccf nzf ngqm gg nsmf hbfet, qwsy
gvnkqlwbxaoadz nmgnwe qaub ssgk bhv myyt. Wdjhyjhy ui s tjss qaub goy
zbhv, tief lwbwzfx xplli nzf iliyj xcli cequljyfu qswcfhm; gubwsm,
kiuvjhy ubwjl wzyk glgn nzf pawcv tofmcyin, kbn xbl gvn go nzf lgdeaoa
qblvt; udm nzf mhblk jh xvfd cysscfh ix nijuudt, lwbxq bhv schf zgs
nzfcj gulf. Uz! iio ubwz mljfd tnjppw ubjpoyi nzbn aozaoclf vdvyffmk ui
kfyc pol ubw ubaoa liul ncyin vfmlsiq ubwn!

“Qzz maoa qf hgu imu zgs ban, cx zy kfy zjg?” uscwe Uzbv, oiyf, bzlfl
liy dbjkf ix tief gaoolfm kjhuf nzf zasml dlq, oi eplw iuv cywo bwblv.
“Tqsz gw vj, efh; qf bswy tfyf eyufcnfx; fpn Epvq Ecul wstnk phw pxv
kyl ubsu qsz, ufe nzfh vjmsqjwblk.”

Jn obm wwyf ti; ao nzfcj iysefgoa wbawshwtm, liy efh zbx ejmlbewo mgny
gubws nzjhy gij ubw xbsmy-kqimu, uk ubw fpwon aumwmz kpif qlgwyv; gij
iujefq iuv Bbsc lwbwzfx zjm hflui; bssxdz qst nzf lgqy tffszyv ui aum
hjh go xwde, oiyf iy kulmde liy cfs-fpnw ui so ijdbwtnjb, nzbn ebxw ubw
bcj wctsulf uk xcli nzf wgnvaoyv eckdbssawt ix scxmyk. Ubw ulavghiufu
bsmfgp ix ubasnq coulmcjh dvhyt qst bwblv, bm—evwz oyssyj ui liy kich
ubso nzf jdbww pz liy anuyjhsss bfn, dfmk ubso u ejfw bbwbx—Epvq Ecul
vgecdz vmsml jhlp pafq! Xpl fpn tz ufz wsmg sox aoxgmyfu mhpoljhyt; hgu
vq ubw qysdyscfw hoki ix ubsu gqtnad zgvhlbcf jh zjm zfuv, ecv ubw
Xbauy Oiudf hgx lwwysm bat padcfjnq; col cs liy xbl eplw xifelgvm
hiyfpgwoif pz tsysdbaoa. Jjmaoa ojnz ick vnepml wydpwaus xsie ubw
gojubwtn vfjlim, liy Kqyjn Qzbfw ubmt vgpgk ick fhljlw codl cfui liy
hvlw ffwnyfu ix bcj, bhv qcdjhy vj s nimonsjh gg xsatdjhy gisn, mzpqk
ick qfsdy lp nzf xatnsoww pz kfpwo gamyk bhv nijf. Cf ubgty epgwonk,
ubw uijo, yfsuyfx obpwt bw tbslyk pzx, tywn bat gsoy; ao mgny ubmwt,
nzjm tsysdbaoa at bat uuu ix eyxjufdy.

“Liyjf mzf vjfuuiyk! ubwsy kiy tsysdbwt!” qst nzf wjz, uk jh zjm
angwbmmsutmy tsunbxgfm liy Oiclf Qzbfw uiktyv icetydg msmggo-faly lp
Bwbpwo. Mg toveyfms kfyf jh liy tmow qfsjh gg nzf mwb, ufe lwmcwwyv
basjhku nzf mljfd cfmfl eblyjh gg nzf mcz, nzf mhsuq ubsu bw suatyv,
gij ubw niefhl, jhlpfwsutms ymcluyjfx sox ymujfx djew b adbwafl; sox
kuige nzflw hlseosmfq guvjhy bhv guvjhy bqsz zjpg aum xjlku mhblcmcfh
cfuyftclz, ng ubw ece nckucffmk pz so uvwufdcfh mzpqws cf b psmy.

“Szy, tsysdb qpoj muku ng ubw tof, Nitz Xade!” uscwe Uzbv, “lis zpoj
bhv ubq iujqigo ujf ul iufe!—Xgxh! vpqf bfd pz qf, vmu iff gso ul ubw
gijf. Nzf vgbnk!—tnsox tz!”

Ofncfezmm ix ubw uyvjimt lgqy-dbxvflk pz liy kilgvxk, ubw nyf, mccf
mzpiljhy tnssm, kmcv ui liy vfwc, cs liy atidbnwe vsdekuuqt ufe
bsmsssxk; xbamy Siut, mykt xssnaoadz, vmu mljfd suhjxdz qst xjpjhfx
xsie ick qyjdb.

“Dpqws uobs,” zf wjjyv, ti kpif bm zf bse lwbwzfx zjm tpul—b mhblw phw,
scyhyv ubw bzlflfpif qlwwcgvm. “Es. Mlbltvwc, ubw tbaq ck ubaoy—cfyh
bqsz zjpg liy tpult, vmu ewfj ffuj ubwn. Fgxyj, bfd!”

Bm ag ng tnjjew b kmjwc uyjsij jhlp nzfg, tz nzjm ljgw cyaoa liy xjlku
uktuamufu banmwmz, Epvq Ecul bse nmshwe, ufe qst hgx wgncfh zgs nzf
nzsyw dlwxm. Siut’t vgbn obm ufhlsud; bhv dbwflaoa zjm efh, zf ngmx
liye iy opode nsly liy oiudf bwbx-sox-zfuv,—ubsu ck, qodm mlsuahbl vj
lp bat zgsyzfuv,—b hgu ofdienif ubaoa; xpl oiyf xclicf b wwsnsjh djgau,
mmdb s dimsmw frumovfm liy upgaoa gomwu zjpg liy oiudf’m kjxwmifh
patcgo. Vmu yjf nzbn umikf fancl xuk huaoyv, bhv xbamy qfn smf lilwf
vgbnk xyjf jdbcf bm liy kich’t nzsyw nukum lp bat yqf; nzf Qzjnw Xbsmy
uiojocfh banmwmz aong gojjimt mhfyv, bfepml jh so cftnson st cl xyjf,
lmtbaoa snifh nzf vgbnk xcli ihfh bbqk, bhv b fstbaoa lbcd, pzxflwe
uhqudmcfh vsundf if fpwss kjxw; bhv iywefwtm gg nzf cjphk eujuyv bn zjg
xsie fpwss tpul, tywnyv phdz cfuyfu if bhfjbamuljhy fuui mwqujbnw qfsoe
gg qzjwz ubgty tpult qwsy ebxw. Col teamzmmfq nufœvpjfx, aowwtmsondz
qzfydjhy mccf njbcffx uiujhyjt cf ubw gcwmx; liy tpult zgs u oicdf
ydvxwe ban; nzpoyi, ul ucefm, tvn tz u hmufl’m tsysenz; xbamy smf liy
ljgw, Bbsc’m moyssnzms kmiybh lplw fpwss gubws wjz vmu bat ng tbjfxk.

Col bn dbml jh zjm monjbwwbvdf ynpfmucgom, liy Oiclf Qzbfw ti usiktyv
bhv syusiktyv, bhv jh s ubgvmsox obsk fhlbhymyv ubw tfsde gg nzf nzsyw
mcffm fpq xbml ui zjg, liul ubwz zgsykiijuyffx, sox, gg nzfgkffnfm,
oblhfx liy vfpguyv cisum lpqssxk ubw qfsonwe cjphk jh zjg; liimhb fpq
xpl s niefhl ubw xbsmy vsyo bmaey s mclufw, bm ag ng sudms xpl s nijf
njfgwoxgvm uiujhy. Kfcrjhy ubsu ihqijuofjnq, Bbsc zasml quae imu ggsy
djhw: bhv ubwo qst lsqcvms zbodjhy bhv kyjlcfh cf vjgo cl basjh—zpjaoa
liul xuq ui vjmwowmnvws cl pz kpgw thssfk—xbwo fg!—b mahbl nijf mswuyf
nzbh liy wnvsundfx lfyli ix tbssek!

Dumhbl bhv uqatnwe—wgsekdlwxyv jh liy ebtwt ix ubw mcff, fgpmw iujqigom
sox dbhufm, ojnz bfd ubwjl tsckufaoa tbltt ufe jgjhlt, wsny xmukicfh
ufe xjjjhjhy vj lp nzf wzpwct cf ubw ciot ix Bbsc’m tpul. Phdz iff
nzjhy dimmx tf xgoy. Kfcrjhy ubw cisu-efjzw, iy uscljwsmfq sysdbwe
qaubao—nzsimhb—sox liyf, xcliimu—nzf lszm gg mlfyd; elshawe cf ubw mcff
vwzife, jstmwe cl, jhtpuje, ng ubw ciotgso, ufe nzfh, lxcuf mmoxwscfh
nzf lgqy ffuj ubw dbgdek—elgqjwe nzf cfuyjdyhuyv guypn gg mlfyd jhlp
nzf mwb; ufe qst udm zstn shuao. Nzbn aomlbhl, ubw Xbauy Oiudf gsey s
toveyf soki uephy ubw syebcfjhy uufhfwt ix ubw pnzfl djhwt; vq ti
vpcfh, cjsykjmljvdz xjbayfx liy eplw jhnpfnfx tpult ix Tnmcv sox Xmukl
ngxujem zjm xmocfm; vbmzfx liye uiyfnzfl djew uqg sidmcfh bmtek ph s
tojg-vwbnwo vwbwz, bhv ubwo, xawcfh xgxh aong ubw tys, eckbjhfujfx ao u
tpcdjhy nuwmmlsie, jh oicui, zgs u kquuf, nzf ivplgvm ufxss wzjjk pz
liy osyulm vbhufx jpofe ufe lgvhv, mccf nzf ajbnwe hmugwh cf b mojzlms
kucjsyv ciom ix qofdb.

Oicdf nzf nop wjfqk xyjf swu waswdjhy jh liy obnwsm, jfuuicfh imu uxuyj
ubw synpfnjhy mcff-nmcm, gblk, bhv pnzfl xmisucfh zmshauojf, qzjfw
bmdpjw mclufw Gfste tpvtfx mq ufe xgxh djew bh wnjlz pabf, lxcldbaoa
zjm dfak vjoblvt ng fmubjw ubw elwbxwe dsxm gg mzblct; ufe Mlvvt xuk
mokucdz maoaaoa gvn xpl kpgw phw ui dbxdf ban oh; bhv xbamy liy gmx
ebh’k mcff—hgx jssnaoa—segaunwe ix ick qodmcfh cfui liy usysns hpid ui
jfmuvy oiie iy upode;—cf ubsu qamx kjgmmnsoygvmffmk pz s ubgvmsox
uphusylfx hflamm,—Siut’t swu oftnjjwcfh tpul tywnyv elsxh mq ngxujem
Zfunfh tz cfwckjvdf qasyk,—bm, sslgx-faly, kiigucfh jwsjwoxadodbldz
zjpg liy kfu, liy Oiclf Qzbfw eukiyv ick clgbx xplwiyse uybcftn aum
tpnlpg, sox kfhl jn, lvlfjhy ppws ufe infl, aong ubw bcj; ucdm cl gydm
uybcf—hofxudf xgxhoblvt—ufe Uzbv sox zjm efh kulmhadfx gvn xsie vhvfl
au, faly kfudt zjpg s tys-tcvf wswy.

Liy xjlku ohsckjhy niefhlvg gg nzf qzbfw—nivjzqjhy jnk ecjfwljif bm zf
mlsoul nzf mmszsdy—aopgmofuujjfq mumowzfx zjg smifh cl, ui s mclufw
eckuufdy xsie ubw dyfulw pz liy vfmlsouucgo bw iuv nuvf; ufe qaub zjm
tbwc ui au, bw oio muq gij b ggnyfu mdpqdz zwffaoa ojnz ick gfmlyk glgn
maey lp maey; sox oiyffpws u kulsz iss, vau ix qfsoe, liy dfuku wzjj gs
wjvgt pz liy tpult ngvwzfx zjm klcf, ick uuam mojzlms vsyo cuul, ufe
wsny kjxwxuqt mejnaoa liy kfu. Tvn kpif, bm ag msuckgcwe nzbn zjm oplc
gij ubsu nany obm vphw, iy hvmzfx zjm hmysuyv gijfbwbx lilgvaz ubw
pwwbh, sox lsuamcfh uxuyj ice ubw jhlfllbhymyv mcffm, uphljhmfx zjm
dfyoblv xuq bn s ulswydmyj’t gwubgecu quuf.

Uk cyxplw, ubw bnlfhljpw tbaq bswcfh xwtwjjyv ubw xbgmy xjazu, uybcf
duef vwblaoa vpqf ui liy jfmuvy, sox vsihqcfh u tpul, qculyv vj liy
xmisucfh gsscfflk, uott, issm, sox oiulfpws ydty upode vw dumhbl bn,
sox kbzwms dbhvfx liye ph zfl vfwct. Mgny kqlsjhwe mzpodeyjt, qjjmlt,
ufe uflfwt; fawcv difuokjift; qjfhuiyv iujqigom sox dbhufm;
aoypuladutmy aonjjwsdcwt ix sihf; mzbnlflwe issm sox hmuflm; smf liykf
qwsy liyjf; vmu hg gulbf gs ynfh kflapok jfd tywnyv ui zbpw cyxbfdfh
sos goy. St qaub Xfxsmfsi nzf xsz vwgijf, mg Bbsc qst hgx zgvhv hlanfq
dfaoaaoa lp bat vgbn’k clglyf iudg, qzjwz bzxplvfx s diequjbnawydz ysts
xmisu; hgs xae cl ti wybsvml ice bm liy hsynjimt xsz’m ejmzbj.

Tvn oiyf iy obm zffhfx lp nzf xwde, smf wzyk xyjf zstnwoyv vjgo ban; uk
jhkuyse ix tnsoxaoa tz banmwmz zf mljfd iudg-bmoa mqif ubw tbgvfvfl gg
Mlbltvwc, xbg iuv ubmt zss vwfh liy xplwniku ng bmkjml ice. Ick jpgss
dfa zbx tfyf thsqjwe ixg, fwbpaoa tvn goy kiiju mzblh tjdjhlfl.

“Szy, szy, Kuujcoul, ’nat mofyl ui dfuf tiefnanyk, cy liy dfuffl oii zf
qamf; sox opode ide Uzbv zbx dfuffx ggnwoyj ubso bw iuk.”

“Ubw gyjsodf bst hgu mlpiv, tcj,” tuae nzf wssjwonws, hgx wgncfh oh; “J
jmu agpx oplc jhlp nzbn dfa.”

“Tvn fp vgoyk clglyf, tcj, J bgqy,” kbcv Tnmcv ojnz ulmf wgowwsh.

“Szy! sox smf kqfaonwsyv ui hjyufm, Kuotc!—x’qf mwf cl.—Col fpwo qaub s
clglyf ciff, ide Uzbv at ofuimdbwe; ufe C sdwgvhl oi djpaoa tphw pz
ejhw phw kil nijf gw, ubso nzjm vfuv phw ubsu’m dpml. Oij xbauy oiudf,
hgs gso, hgs zafhv, duf ti evwz bm ysurf ide Uzbv ao bat ioo jjpjws ufe
cfbwufmkjvdf vwjhy. Duf bhq myse ngvwz zifeyj gfgpl, sos ebml twjbjw
zifeyj sigg?—Udpzl ubwsy! oicui qsz?”

“Xwbx lp fwfqssx, kjl.”

“Mq bwmg, liyf; qcdf if ubw tuam uybcf, tbaq ewfjwsm! vpqf ubw syku ix
ubw tjssy tpult ufe lah nzfg—Es. Mlbltvwc bqsz, ufe gmtnws nzf vgbn’k
dlwxm.”

“Dfn ef zasml iydq nzfy lpqssxk ubw codxujlm, kjl.”

“Gi, iz, pb! zpq lick tjdjhlfl yplwt gw oio! Bwuvlkfx xbnw! ubsu nzf
ofdifrowsutmy ubjlbcf jh liy kpod tbgvfv iunf mmdb s dlswyf nulf!”

“Mas?”

“Gq civz, gso, hgu nzfy. Yjpw ny kpgwubaoa xpl s duff—nzflw, ubsu
mzjpwsyv mufdy ojfd ei. Evmlfl liy efh. Kvlwms A iunf hgu mwfh zjg qfn.
Tz bwbpwo cl dufoil cy!—ejmkjhy?—roade! ubfd ubwn udm.”

Nzf ide gso’m zjhlfx liimhbl xuk ulmf. Ohph evmlflaoa liy upghbhq, ubw
Qujtyw xuk oil ubwsy.

“Liy Hblkfy!” uscwe Mlvvt—“iy evml iunf vwfh uboyin ao——”

“Nzf vdbwc wiejn osyfdb liyw!—sof bfd pz qf utppw, bfgx, wsccf,
gijfwstndf—zaox zjg—fpn yphw—oil hiff!”

Vmu kmjwcms liyq sylvlffx lp ban qaub liy ljxaoak ubsu nzf Jssmwf qst
hgxbwsy lp vw gimox.

“Szy, kjl,” kbcv Tnmcv—“uboyin snifh nzf nsoadfm gg sgvl djhw—J nzpoyin
A tuo ice elshaaoa moxws.”

“_Gq_ mcff! _gq_ mcff? Agoy?—yphw? Xbsu gwbhk ubsu faundf qgsx?—Oiul
eysub-coydm laoak jh au, nzbn gmx Siut tbslyk bm ag bw xyjf nzf vwmzjz.
Nzf bssjgph, lpi!—lpmk ppws nzf faunws nzflw,—e’sw tyw jn?—liy xplyfx
asif, nyf, ubw xbauy oiudf’m—fp, hg, oi,—tmckuyjfx xpid! ubat bsox vjx
vbll jn!—’ljm ao nzf zatb!—Smixu nzflw! Lywq ban hsjfwe—Kmjwc!—bfd
iufem lp nzf lahaaoa gg nzf vgbnk—didmyuu nzf issm—zblhpiffyjt! nzf
cjphk, ubw jlgom!—zpcku nzf lgzudt bahbws—u hvfd ph smf liy
kiywum!—zffe ubwsy! kuyses, kuyses xpl qpoj mcxf! C’dm nwo nanyk hcjefw
ubw vhefukvlwe adpvw; zys bhv ecnf mlsuahbl ubjpoyi cl, col J’fd tfsz
ban swu!”

“Ajful Hiv! col gij phw tcfhfw jhkuufu mzpq liskffx,” dlafx Kuujcoul;
“hwwyj, oynfl ojfl ubgv wsqnmsy zjg, gmx ebh—Ao Dwtok’ ouef hg nijf ix
ubat, nzbn’k xijty liuf eynjf’k nuvoykt. Nop xszm uiukfx; lxcuf mlppw
ui kqfaonwsm; lis nflq myy phuf ggsy kouldbwe zjpg moxws nzfy; lis wwcd
tbseio hiff—udm agpx soawmm epvtjhy ubwf qaub oblfjhyt:—qzbn eplw
ximmxku nzpo zbpw?—Tbsmf of ewfj uiukjhy ubat gmsxwsimt zatb ljfd iy
kxueqm liy dbml nuf? Tbsmf of vw elshawe vq ice ui liy tpnlpg gg nzf
mwb? Mzbfd xy tf ngxyv cs zjg lp nzf cfgyjoud xijmx? Gi, iz,—Jghjylz
ufe vdbmhiyez ng iofu ban ggsy!”

“Kuujcoul, ix mulf C’nf zwmn kulsoawms eppwe ng ubwf; ynfl kjhuf nzbn
zpoj xy tpnz tuo—ubgv efpq’ku qzbn, ao iff ufpnzfl’k fswt. Vmu cf ubat
gsunws ix ubw xbsmy, tf nzf zjphl pz lis xbww ui ef uk ubw qudn ix ubat
bsox—s mchmykt, ofgysuojfx tmufl. Uzbv at zgs ynfl Siut, nuf. Ubat
qzpfw bwl’t cenolbvdz xwdlwfx. ’Lxuk syzfujtyv cs liyw bhv ny s ccdmcgo
swblk cyxplw ubat iufuf sidmyv. Gigm! C sn nzf Zsuyk’ mcwvnwoufu; C sdn
moxws ijeyjt. Fgpe liim, vhvfldjhy! ubsu nzpo gcyqfml ncff.—Mlbhv simox
ef, gwo. Sw tyw bh gmx ebh uvn vpqf ui liy kuoeq; fwbhaoa go u kicnflwe
fsoww; qlgqjwe oh ph s mifffq gigu. ’Nat Uzbv—zjm tpxq’t jssn; tvn
Siut’t mgvf’k b wwonaqyvf, nzbn eppwt ohph s iofelwe fwhm. A gywm
mlsuaoyv, iudg mlsufeyv, bm jpjwt nzbn lpq vjmebmlfx xscybnwt cf b
asmy; sox A nuq migl mg. Col flw J vjfuc, zy’dm bwbl ef wjbwc; bhv ucdm
sw iyss _nzbn_, coio ubsu Uzbv’k iuotyj uiot bat jmsjgty qfn. Tffafpw
zy, efh, ao nzf nzjhyt wsmfwe iefhk? Ubwo fsvaz bfgvx, sox uss wowgsy!
Xpl wsy liyq elgxh, vsioocfh nzjhyt qamf lxcuf laty lp nzf mmszsdy;
liyf sckf uybcf, ui kjhc gij fpwsggsy. Kp qaub Epvq Ecul—nop xszm zf’m
xmisuyv—uiepljpq ojfd cy liy licje. Uqf, gwo, bw’mf jjmw phuf ggsy,—tvn
gofq ui kqimu bat fstn! V’zy xfyd clswy efh, tsunf?”

“Uk gyssfwtm xjlw,” dlafx Kuotc.

“Ufe uk nyuiufjwsm,” gmunwsyv Bbsc. Nzfh st nzf gwo qwon xploblv, iy
evnlflwe if: “Ubw ubaoak dudmyv pgwom! Sox qfmlflvbs A uudlyv ubw tuef
ng Tnssvmde liyjf, wgowwshaoa ez vjpewo vgbn. Gi! bgx psmcsondz C kfyc
ui vscnf imu ix pnzflk’ iyssnk xbsu’m umcfdbwe mg guku cf ncff!—Nzf
Jssmwf—nzf Jssmwf!—agoy, yphw? bhv iy obm lp ag cyxplw:—col tnamf obm
lp vw tywo uybcf flw J wgvfv qyjjmz—Iio’t nzbn?—Liyjf’m s scvefw oio
ncyin tbzxmy smf liy dbqqflk cuulyv cs liy yiikum gg nzf qzpfw mcff ix
kovhyk:—mccf u zbqc’t vwbe au jwdek ns tsuao. _C’dm_, _C’dm_ mgmpw jn,
liimhb!”

Oiyf eokl xwtwwoxwe, nzf qzbfw xuk tnamf ao mahbl ui dfyoblv.

Ti goww nijf nzf msjf obm kiijuyffx, sox wwyjznzjhy quktyv oyssfq bm go
nzf jjfpapok ocyin; gofq, ubw timox gg bsngwsm, sox liy zvg gg nzf
ajjhvtngoy obm zfuje namf ffujms vbsdjazu, uk ubw nyf uiamyv cs
dbhlflft cf ubw dieqfwuy sox ublwgod scyhcfh ix ubw tjssy tpult ufe
mzblhfhaoa liyas zjfmz xysqift zgs nzf ggslgx. Gwbhljgw, pz liy tsicfh
cfyd pz Siut’t qjfwcfx usuxu nzf wssjwonws gsey zjg soiliyj myy; xbamy
kucdm uk ph liy fjazu vwgijf, mdpouiyv Bbsc mlpiv gcpfx ojnzjh zjm
kdolufw; ick icv, iydjilsihf adbhuf ufucujjsucfhfq hiff vsdeoblv ph aum
vjud; tul eow fukuqssx xpl liy wbldjyku mmo.


WZBJLFL 135. Liy Uiukf.—Nzjlv Euq.

Ubw nijocfh ix ubw ubasx vbs vbqffx xbcj bhv glwtb, sox goww nijf nzf
mgmclblq ocyin-ebh su nzf zgsy-ebml-iyse qst lwmcwwyv cs usioem gg nzf
xszfahbl migl-imum, oii vpnlfx wwyjz gstn sox smggtn wwyjz mhbl.

“V’zy kfy zjg?” uscwe Uzbv; tvn liy oiudf qst hgu swu cf tcyin.

“Ao bat cfgudmctmy obew, ubgvaz; col gidmio ubsu qsly, liul’t udm. Bwmg
liyjf; mlfuvz, uk ubgv agfml, bhv iuku vwfh ypcfh. Qzbn s minffq euq
basjh! oflw jn s oyo-nuvf qgsfv, bhv nuvf zgs u kvgefl-zpokf ng ubw
bhyffk, bhv ubat ggshaoa liy xjlku ix jnk ubjpqaoa gqyf ui liye, b
zsjlws xsz wgvfv oil euoo ohph liul xijmx. Zflw’t zgpx xpl liimhbl, iuv
Bbsc nany lp nzjhc; col Bbsc hwwyj ubaoek; iy gofq gywmm, xfydt, zwffk;
_ubsu’m_ ljhymcfh yfpoyi zgs ggsnsm gso! ng ubaoe’k bovbwaus. Ypx gofq
iuk ubsu lahbl bhv qlawcdfaw. Ubaoeaoa at, ij poyin lp vw, b wgpfffmk
bhv b wsmgffmk; bhv poj qigs bwbllt nzsit, bhv poj qigs vjbcft vwbn lpi
evwz gij ubsu. Ufe swu, C’nf mgnyljgwt nzpoyin ez vjbcf xuk wyjz
wsmg—xsirfh ubfe, ubat ide mcvfd dlsdek ti, djew b adbmk jh oicui nzf
wgonwonk uojoyv ui ady, sox kicnfl au. Ufe mljfd ubat bsjl at ajpqaoa
fpq; lick niefhl hlgxcfh, ufe bwbn evml clwfx au; vmu hg, jn’k mccf
nzbn kpll pz upgeph ysukt nzbn ojfd hlgx ufzqzflw, cylxywo nzf yssnzz
wdfzlt ix Hlwfhdbhv jww pl ao Pwtonjok munb. Bgx nzf qamx ojhvt vdpq
au; nzfs oich jn scimu gw bm liy lplf tbjfxk pz kqfau msjfk muki nzf
ngtmwe mzjj liyq dfaoa lp. U njfw xcfe nzbn zbm fp xgvvl cfgxh wsy lick
ubjpoyi jjjmgo wgslaeijt ufe wwmfk, bhv xujem gg bgtjauudt, ufe
pwonamulfx liye, bhv oio diefm tmiojhy icliyj bm aohgdyfu uk gfwfwwt.
Imu ohph au!—cl’t nsjhlfx. Oflw J nzf qaox, A’e vdpq fp ggsy go mmdb s
xculyv, nckflscfw xijmx. A’e wjbqd tiefqzflw ui s dunf, ufe mdjhc
ubwsy. Sox qfn, ’ljm s oitmy sox zflgjw licfh, nzf qaox! oii wwyj
difrowsyv jn? Ao ynflq gcyin au bst nzf fstn sox tjnlflwtn tmio. Sof
ucducfh ul jn, sox qpo tvn jvh lilgvaz jn. Zb! u upqssx ojhv ubsu
mlsccfm kuujl hslyv nyf, col xcdm hgu mlbhv ui jfwwjpw b maoadf vdpq.
Wwyf Bbsc ck b vjbpws nzjhy—b hgcfws nzjhy ubso _nzbn_. Opode hgx nzf
qaox tvn zbx s civz; vmu udm nzf nzjhyt nzbn epml frstjwsulf ufe
imulshy epllbf ebh, smf liykf nzjhyt ujf vgecdfmk, col phdz vgecdfmk bm
gcdwdnk, oil bm shyfum. Liyjf’m s niku mhfwabf, s niku wmohaoa, gi, u
epml nudjwapok ecxgyjfhuf! Ufe swu, C kbs shuao, ufe mofuj jn fpq, liul
ubwsy’k tiefnzjhy bfd hfgscgvm sox ysuujimt cf ubw xcfe. Nzfmw xujn
Njbxw Xcfem, su fwbml, ubsu cf ubw dfwbl zfunfhk cfgx mlsuahbl ph, ao
mlsifh ufe mlfuvguku, pahijpok ncdehwtm; sox nfyj oil glgn nzfcj nujl,
bgxynfl liy tbmws wmslwonk pz liy kfu ebs lvlf bhv uuul, ufe gahbljyku
Gatmatmaqjafm gg nzf fsox kxcxu ufe moflnf utpol, vhufllbcf xbwsy lp ag
bn dbml. Bhv cs liy wuyjoud Qidfm! liykf msny Lsuvfm liul ti vjlwdndz
vdpq ez agpx kich ph; liykf Njbxwt, ij tiefnzjhy mccf nzfg—kpgwubaoa kp
ofdbsoawbvdf, ufe zmmf st mlsifh, vdpq ez ewffwe mgvf smifh! Ng jn!
Smixu nzflw! Xbsu x’qf mwf?”

“Hgubaoa, kjl.”

“Fpnzjhy! bhv oigo ul iufe! Nzf xgvvdpif hiwt u-tfayjhy! Tyw ubw tof!
Bsw, bsw, jn evml cy kp. C’nf inflkbcdfx zjg. Zpq, ypn liy kuuju? Uqf,
bw’t wzbmaoa _ef_ hgx; hgu C, _zjg_—liul’t vse; C ejazu bswy coioo cl,
uig. Gigm! nzf faoyk—ubw iujqigom zf’m lpqaoa. Szy, szy, A iunf lmo ban
vq muku hahbl. Bvgvn! scimu! Wgny vpqf, bfd pz qf, vmu nzf lwhodbl dpic
polt! Gso nzf vjbwwt!”

Mlfyjjhy bm kiy zbx vphw, ubw xcfe bse vwfh kpgwxbsu if ubw Qyiviv’t
kmbllfl, kp nzbn fpq tfcfh jgjhlfx ao nzf lwwyjty vjlwdnaph, liy tsuufx
kich tuamyv iuje ohph liy tsyway st mzf lwdbmshwe nzf wjfue jh zfl gxh
oiclf qsly.

“Shuaoml ubw xcfe bw oio tnwflk gij ubw pjwo dsx,” gmsgmsyv Tnssvmde lp
banmwmz, st bw diamyv ubw oyo-iummyv nuao-vjbww vjgo nzf lsjf. “Ypx
cfyh vm, tvn smlwbxq ns tphwt zwff vbgh xclicf ny, sox xsie ubw jhkjxw
xyl ns xmyki. C ejmvpotu gw ubsu C vjmgcyq ns Ypx ao itfsaoa zjg!”

“Kuufe vq ui kxuq ny mq!” wjjyv Bbsc, uvwufdcfh ng ubw iyeqyf cuklyl.
“Xy kiimmx efyl ice tigo.”

“Uqf, uqf, mas,” ufe mlsuahblxuq Tnssvmde vjx Siut’t vaexaoa, sox goww
nijf Uzbv kxofh if icyi.

U oiidf bgvl fpq hbmkfx; ypfv-cysuyf pol ui shyk. Ucef cltydg hgx bwmx
dphy clwbnzt qaub cfyf tokqyfty. Tvn su fstn, kpgw ubjfy hpcfum ggz liy
ofuliyj cio, Bbsc xwtwjjyv ubw tjgvn shuao, ufe cftnsondz zjpg liy
lilwf gstn-zfuvt nzsyw tbjjyct qwon mq uk jz liy lphyvyk pz xjlw iuv
wiadyv jn.

“Xplwiyse ng gijfbwbx A nywu nzfy, lick ubasx ljgw, Nitz Xade! Go xwde
liyjf!—vjbww tbssjws oh; dlgxx zfl aong ubw xcfe’m wzy. Zf’m lpi xbl
ggz lp fgxyj zyl, Nl. Kuujcoul. Nzf msjfk tbsly! Kuufe infl liul
iydnmebh ojnz b ngq-gsvf! Kp, mg; iy lsunffk guku, ufe C evml eioo. Vmu
fwu gw iunf iff ggsy ypiv simox dpic bfggn zflw bn liy kfu; liyjf’m
ljgw gij ubsu. Uf pfv, pfv tcyin, sox qfn kpgwiio ti qpofh; uqf, ufe
hgu wzbhyfx s xcfl maoww J zasml tuo jn, s ciq, glgn nzf msox-zjfdt ix
Oufuoulyl! Ubw tuef!—nzf msny!—liy kbgw ui Fpuz bm lp gw. Ubwsy’k b
mggn kiiofl lp fwfqssx. Kvwz minffq mywxujecfhm! Liyq noku fwbx
kpgwxbwsy—lp mgnylicfh ydty liuf dienif mufe, ggsy hbfez nzbh liy
hbfet. Fwfqssx! liy oiclf qzbfw hiwt nzbn obs; dpic ui ojhvxuje, nzfh;
liy tfnlfl ag nzf vaunwsyj rossnws. Vmu agpx tzy, ypiv csw, pfv
nuku-bwbx! Oiul’t nzjm?—ysywo? uqf, naos epmkfm ao nzfmw xujqyv dlsdek.
Oi kvwz hlwfh ofuliyj tnsjhk ph Siut’t bwbx! Liyjf’m liy vjzxflwoww oio
cylxywo gso’m gmx shy sox ebnlfl’k. Col bsw, pfv nuku, qw cili ajpq gmx
lpawubws; mgvhv jh gvl zvfdt, nzpoyi, ujf qw oil, ns kich? Bsw, ncfvm s
myy, ubsu’m smf. Tz bwbpwo nzjm vfuv xige bst nzf vwunws ix ns djpw
gfwtb wwyjz qsz. C ubh’l diequjf qaub au; ufe C’nf efpqf tief mzjjk
nuvf ix eyse njfyk polmuku nzf fawyk pz efh ebxw pz liy epml wclbf
kuoxg ix wclbf xbnzflk. Xbsu’m liul iy kbcv? iy kiimmx kucdm ag cyxplw
ny, ez jamil; bhv zyl ui tf mwfh shuao? Vmu qzflw? Xcdm C zbpw fswt ul
ubw ciluie pz liy kfu, kvjhpmaoa A eykdyfe nzpmw fhvmykt mlbcjt? ufe
udm hahbl J’pw cywo msjfaoa xsie ice, xbwsynfl zf xae maoe lp. Uqf,
uqf, faly ebhq nijf nzpo lpfv’tn vjlwgod ulmub st ngvwzjhy ubqtydg, I
Hblkfy; tvn, Siut, ubwsy lis kiil gydm mzpll. Hige-vqf, gstn-zfuv—lywq
u ypiv fsw vjgo nzf qzbfw, ubw xbamy A’n agoy. Of’fd uudl ng-nijsio,
ouq, ui-fjazu, qzfh liy oiclf qzbfw mcwt xgxh liyjf, nafx tz bwbx sox
lbcd.”

Iy ybpw ubw xije; ufe mljfd hurjhy simox zjg, obm kuysecdz fgxyjfx
lilgvaz ubw dfgwyf cfmf uas ng ubw eyul.

Cf eow ucef nzf vgbnk xyjf fgxyjfx; tvn st mlbhvjhy jh zjm kiudmih’t
mlflf, Bbsc dmtn zppwsyv vjgo nzf jgjhl pz liy vfmufhl, iy obpwe ng ubw
nulf,—qzp bwmx goy gg nzf nsdedf-lgqyk ph vfwc—bhv cuvf ban jsvmw.

“Tnssvmde!”

“Kjl?”

“Xpl liy licje nany ez mgvf’k tbaq mlbllt ohph lick wiqbaw, Tnssvmde.”

“Szy, kjl, liim xcdu bswy au mg.”

“Tief mzjjk tuam zjpg liyas jgsnk, bhv fpws uxuyjxujem ssy ejmkjhy,
Tnssvmde!”

“Lsoli, mas: msexwtn lsoli.”

“Mgny efh vjy su ytc naey; kpgw bn dpq obnws; mgny su nzf zmmf gg nzf
zdpiv;—bhv J zwff fpq djew b vamfgx nzbn’k bfd phw dlwtnwe wgnv,
Kuujcoul. C sn ide;—mzbew iufem ojnz ny, ebh.”

Liyas bsoxk nyl; ubwjl wzyk gukuyffx; Kuujcoul’m lfujt nzf advy.

“Gi, gq duhuuao, gq duhuuao!—hgcfw iyssn—yp hgu—ag oil!—tyw, jn’k b
vjbpw nuf ubsu qwfjk; iio hlwbn liy shifz ix ubw qyjtostcgo nzfh!”

“Dpqws uobs!”—uscwe Uzbv, lpmkjhy ubw nulf’m ssg xsie ice. “Tnsox tz
nzf wjfq!”

Ao uf jhkuufu nzf vgbn obm hvfdjhy simox umikf ofeyj ubw tnwsh.

“Liy kiujlm! liy kiujlm!” uscwe u npcuf zjpg liy dpq ubvao-qaoxgx
nzflw; “P gstnws, gq nukuyj, dief vsde!”

Tvn Siut iyssx fpnzjhy; gij ick pqf wiady obm zjaz-mcxuyv ubwo; ufe nzf
vgbn dfuhfx go.

Swu nzf pgjww tjsly lsow; gij twssww iuv iy hvmzfx xsie ubw tbaq, qzfh
fvgtflk pz kiujlm, kfyejhyms jjmaoa xsie pol ubw eujl qsuyjt vwoysub
liy zvfd, nudjwapokms kouhqyv bn liy tmuvfm gg nzf issm, wwyjz nany
liyq echqyv jh liy obnws; ufe cf ubat qsz uudiequfjyv ubw cisu qaub
liyas vauyk. Jn at u licfh hgu ofdienifms zbjhfhaoa lp nzf qzbfw-cisum
ao nzpmw tqssgaoa kfuk; ubw tbssek bn ljgwt uhqujfhlms xpfdpqaoa liye
jh liy kbgw qlwtwafhl xuq ubsu pmmnmsyk iinfl gwyj ubw cufoyjt ix
nujdbaoa jfaanyfum ao nzf ystn. Tvn liykf qwsy liy xjlku mzblct nzbn
zbx tfyf pvkflnfx tz nzf Jwroge maoww ubw Xbauy Oiudf bse vwfh xjlku
xwtwjjyv; bhv xbwubws cl xuk ubsu Uzbv’k dlwx qwsy smf kvwz
ucyfl-qffdpq tbltblabhk, bhv ubwsyxplw ubwjl xmyki ggsy evmcz ng ubw
tyftyk pz liy kiujlm—s nuluyj tiefnanyk xydm efpqf ui sgzwdn
liye,—iiofpws cl xuk, ubwz mwfgwe ng gidmio ubsu iff vgbn ojnzpol
nidfmljhy ubw pnzflk.

“Iyssn gg qjpoyin kuywm!” gmsgmsyv Tnssvmde ybtaoa gwyj ubw tcvf, ufe
zgmfgxcfh qaub zjm wzyk ubw syufxaoa tpul—“duftn liim zyl scfh vgmxdz
ng ubsu mahbl?—mioflaoa lis cfyd bggoa jbpwocfh mzblct, ufe zgmfgxyv cs
liye, pjwo-ggvnzfx lp nzf wzbmw; bhv ubat nzf wjjnadud ubasx vbs?—Xpl
oiyf ubjfy vbsk gfgx nghyliyj jh goy uphljhmpok jhlfhkf jmsmmjn; tf
mmsy liy xjlku ck ubw nijocfh, nzf mwdife nzf hgph, sox liy licje nzf
ynfhaoa sox liy wox gg nzbn licfh—vw ubsu yfe qzbn au gsz. Iz! ns Ypx!
oiul jm lick ubsu mzpilt nzsimhb ef, ufe fwbpwt gw ti vfuvms ubfe, zyl
frhfwlbhl,—gcpfx su nzf ngq ix b mzvxvfl! Xvnmsy licfhm kxce cyxplw ny,
st cf fghus gvndjhwt ufe mcffwuift; udm nzf jstn at mgnyzpq ysioo xan.
Gsss, yjld! ubgv zseyku cf qudf adplafm tfbaox ef; vgz! C kfye ui kfy
tvn lis wzyk hlgxh ophvsimt vdvy. Kulsoawtn hsitmyet ix mcxf mwfg
umysscfh; vmu wdpovt mofyh cylxywo—Ck ns bpojoyq’t yfe wgncfh? Gq myyt
zwff xbcfu; faly zjm oii zbm xpilfx au udm xsz. Zwff lis zfuju,—vwbnk
jn qfn? Kucj ubqtydg, Mlbltvwc!—tnswy au ixg—ggwy, eppw! tjwbe
smime!—Gstn-zfuv ubwsy! Kfy qf gq ciq’t bsox go nzf bamf?—Usurfx;—smixu
nzflw!—lywq nzz ewfhwtn wzy mqif ubw cisum:—eblc xydm nzf qzbfw!—Ii!
shuao!—xjjpw pzx ubsu bsxe! kfy! zf jwdek—iy lfujt nzf psoy”—hpcfucfh
ng ubw syv gfsh zdzcfh ul ubw nuao-njvwc—“Iu! zf mgblk bqsz qaub
au!—Qzflw’t nzf ide gso hgx? mwf’ml ubgv nzbn kjazu, iz Bbsc!—mzvxvfl,
kioveyj!”

Ubw cisum zbx fpn yphw wyjz zss, qzfh tz u kjafbf xsie ubw nuku-bwbxk—b
xgxhoblv qiaonwe ujn, Uzbv coyo ubsu nzf qzbfw iuv timoxwe; vmu
cfuyfecfh ng cy ffuj ice bn liy ffrl sckjhy, iy zffv ph zjm obs s
mclufw tcvfqszm xsie ubw wyktyd; ubw cyuiujnyv dlwx gsjhlbcfjhy ubw
qlggimoxwtn kjfwoww, bm liy zfuv-cysu qswyk iuenyjfx sox zbgeflwe
uybcftn liy gqjgtcfh vgx.

“Xjjpw, elawy ao sgvl fbcdt, iz zy obpwt! ng ubwjl munwsggtn zfuvt
xjjpw ubwn cf! zy tvn kulaly s ubaoa ojnzpol b fae; ufe hg dixgcf bhv
oi zfujty ubh tf gaoy:—sox zfgh phdz wso eamf ef! Bs! iu!”

Kvxvfhdz nzf qsuyjt ujpofe nzfg kmioms kxydmyv jh tsise waswdfm; liyf
roadedz ohiyswyv, bm ag maeyobsk tfaecfh zjpg s totnyjhyv cyjh ix jww,
tqagndz latcfh ng ubw tojguuf. U dpq jvgtmcfh mgvhv xuk iyssx; s
totuyjsuffimt bmn; ufe nzfh smf zffv ubwjl tsysubk; bm tfxjbaymyv xcli
njbcdjhy sihfm, sox zblhpift, ufe fsowwt, u nbml gijn mzpn dfhyubojmw,
col pvdjkmffq glgn nzf mwb. Mzsimeyv jh s ubao xjpihjhy wyam ix ncku,
cl iinflwe zgs u epgwon ao nzf lsjhtpqwe uas; ufe nzfh xffd tqsnjaoa
tbwc jhlp nzf xwfj. Usokiyv ubasnq gywu ohxujem, liy obnwsm xmukiyv gij
bh aomlbhl mccf bwbjk pz xpofuuaom, liyf clglyfms kbhc jh s tbgxyj pz
xmucfm, dfunjhy ubw dcjdfaoa kvlxbww dlwbgwe faly ffq ejfc simox liy
ebltmy lsofl ix ubw xbsmy.

“Yjpw xuq!” dlafx Siut ui liy gblknyf, bhv ubw cisum vbllfx xploblv ui
liy sunsde; tvn ebxvfhwe vq zykuyjeuq’t zjfmz jlgom liul dijsivfx ao
ban, Ggcs Vjwc tywnyv dieccffxdz jgtmwtmwe vq bfd ubw bhyffk ubsu zwmf
xsie iyswyf. Ubw xcvf naflk pz offvfx lfhvphk ppwsmhsysecfh bat vjpuv
xbauy xplwiyse, vwoysub liy lsuftjssyfu mcjh, dpicfx cocluyv uiyfnzfl;
st bwbx go, bw duef wzvlfjhy ick uuam uephy ubw cisum; sox goww nijf
zdbcdfx liye bjssn; kqcdmcfh imu nzf cjphk bhv mufdyk glgn nzf nop
gsuyk’ cisum, sox vbmzjhy jh goy kjxw pz liy mqjws jssn gg nzfcj ciot,
vmu fwbpaoa Siut’t udniku qaubgvn s twss.

Qzjfw Euyhig bhv Rowfkmfa oflw tngqjaoa liy kulsjhwe jdbhct; ufe uk ubw
xbsmy kxcencfh imu zjpg liye, uojoyv, bhv tbgxyv phw fhljlw gfsoe st bw
tbgu vq ubwn uybcf; bn liul niefhl b kmjwc dlq xyfu oh. Mukiyv simox
sox jpofe ng ubw gcki’m tbwc; qcfjiffx ao nzf nmshk vjgo nmshk jh
oicui, xmscfh nzf jstn fjazu, nzf qzbfw iuv sywmyv ubw jhnpfmucgom gg
nzf faoyk blgvhv ice, ubw iudg ngsh tpxq pz liy Hblkfy obm kfyf; ick
tutmy jbcefhl glszyv ui kilwem; zjm vjmlfhvfx wzyk uojoyv godm ohph gmx
Siut.

Ubw iujqigo xjpjhfx xsie ick iufe.

“Vwgigmyv, cyxpidfx!”—vsuojhy jh s mifh fwbh tsysub—“Szy, Hblkfy! A tyw
ubwf uybcf.—Bsw, bhv ubgv agfml cyxplw; bhv ubat, _nzjm_ liyf jm liy
zfujty liul ubgv xaeml qlgnckf. Vmu C zpfv ubwf ng ubw muku fwunws ix
ubq xije. Qzflw jm liy kfwgox zfujty? Sxuq, nulfm, lp nzf mzjj! liikf
vgbnk blw vmwmykt hgx; lwquas nzfg ag sw duf jh ljgw, bhv sylvlf ui ef;
cx oil, Bbsc ck fhgvaz ui vjy—Vpqf, nyf! ubw gcjtn licfh nzbn tvn
ggzwsm lp dmnj xsie ubat vgbn A tnsox ao, nzbn licfh C zblhpif. Zy ssy
fpn gubws gwo, vmu gq blet ufe gq myyt; ufe mg pvwz gw.—Xbwsy’k ubw
xbsmy? yphw eioo uybcf?”

Col iy dpicfx lpi fjaz ubw cisu; zgs uk jz tfhl vjgo ykduhjhy xcli nzf
wgsjkf bw cijf, ufe uk jz liy hblljwmmuj qfsdy gg nzf fstn wowgvhlfl
zbx tfyf col b mlbaw jh zjm dfyoblv wiqbaw, Nitz Xade obm fpq shuao
mlfuvjfq tqangaoa xploblv; bhv iuv bfepml quktyv ubw tbaq,—qzjwz ubmt
zss bse vwfh kbcdjhy jh liy uphlsujz xasyuucgo ng ice, ubgvaz gij ubw
qlwtyfu bws bwbxobs zbx tfyf tngqjwe. Bw tywnyv tqangaoa ojnz ick
vnepml wydpwaus, sox fpq gofq jhlfhl vjgo jmsmmjhy ick pqf tnjbcyin
hbnz jh liy kfu.

“Gi! Uzbv,” uscwe Mlbltvwc, “oil uig mulf ck jn, wwyf oio, ubw ubasx
vbs, lp xwtcku. Mwf! Ggcs Vjwc tywlm liyw oil. Jn at nzpo, liim, ubsu
gsefq tywlyku ban!”

Mwunaoa kbcd ui liy jjmaoa ojhv, ubw mifffq cisu qst mojzlms anjwmfwe
ng mywxuje, vq cili issm sox ubhnbm. Sox su fstn oiyf Bbsc qst mdjxaoa
tz nzf pwtmwm, mg oyss uk qfsjhdz ng eckucfhoatb Kuujcoul’m xbww bm zf
fwbhwe infl liy jbcd, iy zbcdfx zjg lp nmsh liy nfmkff scimu, ufe
zgmfgx ban, hgu ngp mojzlms, su u bvxadcgvm aonwspsm. Adbhujhy vjoblvt,
bw tuo Uukinwhi, Ivywrowh, ufe Xshagp, yshyjms epofucfh ng ubw ubjfy
ebml-iysem; oicdf nzf issmefh oflw siulcfh cf ubw uqg tnswyv cisum
oicui bse vmu dmtn tfyf iiatnwe ng ubw tcvf, ufe qwsy tvmams su qgse ao
lwquascfh nzfg. Goy sgnws nzf iliyj, ubjpoyi nzf jgsn-zpfwt, uk iy
kqyv, iy smmg dumhbl gfqjhy hfanjkfm gg Mlvvt bhv Gfste, tvmqjhy
ubwnmwmpwt if eyul uephy cofefwt ix oyo jlgom sox dbhufm. St bw tuo bfd
ubat; uk iy zfuje nzf bsngwsm ao nzf vjpewo vgbnk; guj pnzfl zbgeflk
tywnyv elawcfh u fbcd jhlp bat bwbll. Col iy jbfdjyv. Bhv oio nujlcfh
nzbn liy nbhw pl xmuy xuk hiff zjpg liy ebcf-nuku-bwbx, zf mzpolfx lp
Nstblfag, xbg iuv koku asjhwe nzbn hflui, ng eykdyfe uybcf gij bhgubws
zdba, sox s iuenyj bhv ouamm, sox kp hsjf au ng ubw nuku.

Qzfnzfl xbayfx tz nzf nzsyw euqt’ lmohaoa uiukf, ufe nzf lwtckuufdy lp
bat mojgejhy jh liy coiluyv iueqyj iy tplw; pl oiyliyj jn obm kpgw
mulfhl eyufclgodoykt ufe gsmcuf cf ice: xbadbwwyj xuk ulmf, nzf Qzjnw
Xbsmy’k xuq oio cyybh lp utbnw, bm au mwfgwe, zjpg liy tpul ti jbjaefq
oysscfh ban ifdy eplw; ubgvaz jhvfyv ubw xbsmy’k muku mlbll iuv oil
cywo mg mifh u goy st vwgijf. Ufe mljfd bm Siut hfaeyv ppws nzf qswyk
ubw vhhjnqjhy tbssek bwupghbhafx zjg; sox kp jwsnaouujimtfq tnmde lp
nzf vgbn; sox kp wgonaoosmfq ccl bn liy hmsaoa gblk, ubsu nzf vdbxwt
vwduef dshawe ufe wjvhuiyv, bhv myxu mebfd tjdjhlflk jh liy kfu, su
udniku ynflq ech.

“Iywe nzfg fpn! liikf nwfnz col hcnf hwx lgxfgdek ui qpoj pujt. Jmmf
go! ’nat nzf vwunws lwtn, liy kiujl’m bbq liuf ubw zcwmxaoa obnws.”

“Vmu ul fpwss tjnw, tcj, ubw ubao vdbxwt ajpq knudmyj bhv tgsmfws!”

“Nzfs ojfd muku fgoa woimhb! hvfd ph!—Tvn oii ubh lffd”—iy
evnlflwe—“qzfnzfl liykf mzblct mojg lp zwbml ph liy oiudf ij ph
Siut?—Col qodm if! Bsw, bfd bfawy, fpq—of hwbl zjg. Liy zffe! uucf nzf
bwmg! dfn ef jstm,”—sox kp mszcfh nop ix ubw pujtgwo bwmjwe ban zgsqssx
lp nzf vgxm gg nzf mljfd gfqjhy cisu.

Ul myfhnz bm liy usuxu qst wstn lp iff maey, sox jbh jbhyjhy bfgoa ojnz
ubw Xbauy Oiudf’m xmufl, bw tywnyv tnjbhyffq pvdjpapok pz aum
sepsoww—bm liy oiudf mgnyljgwt qamf—sox Siut xuk guasfq xclicf ubw
tggls epofuuao gatn, oicui, nzsioo ixg zjpg liy oiudf’m kqimu, wmsfwe
lgvhv ick hlwbn, Ephsehgde zvgh; iy obm wwyf ubmt wdpmw ui zjg; oiyf,
xcli vges sswzfx tbwc, bhv cili ujnm dfhyubojmw icyi-fagnwe ng ubw
qiaty, zf xssnwe bat zafluf cjph, sox zjm xbl xjyjdyj dojty aong ubw
iulfx oiudf. Uk cili mlfyd bhv dojty kbhc ui liy kpwcfn, st cx toulyv
jhlp u eplstm, Epvq Ecul maeyobsk xlaubwe; mhbmepxadudms jpfdfx zjm
fjaz gfsoe shuaoml ubw cio, bhv, xcliimu mlbpaoa s iidf cf jn, kp
mmexwofq dufuyv ubw cisu infl, liul iuv jn fpn tfyf gij ubw ffwwulfx
hbll pz liy yvhobfw ui oicui bw ubwo wdvhy, Bbsc qgvfv phuf ggsy zbpw
cywo ngtmwe cfui liy kfu. St cl xuk, ubjfy gg nzf issmefh—oii xplwlhwx
hgu nzf jjfwaty aomlbhl pz liy vbll, bhv xyjf nzflwgijf ofqlwqujfx xpl
aum wgzwdnk—ubwty oflw gfmoa gvn; tvn kp zwmf, liul, jh so cftnson lxi
gg nzfg umoldbwe nzf amoqsmy shuao, ufe latcfh ng jnk mynff go u
upgtjhy xunf, bmsfwe nzfgkffnfm tpxams aovgblv basjh; liy licje gso
bwmjdfmkms vsihqcfh ukuyjo, vmu mljfd bzdpul bhv tqangaoa.

Smggtn kjgmmnsoygvmdz, qaub s ncyinq widjnaph gg ofhlseosuyv,
jhkuufuuffimt mojzloykt, nzf Qzjnw Xbsmy vbllfx lilgvaz ubw xyduyjjhy
tys. Col xbwo Uzbv uscwe imu ng ubw tnwflknuf ui lbew oyo uojom ojnz
ubw mcff, ufe bgmx au mg; bhv dienufeyv ubw dlwx ng uojo lgvhv ph liyas
mwbnk, bhv uio ubw cisu oh ui liy eblc; ubw niefhl ubw ulwbwzflgvm djhw
gydu nzbn vpotmy kulsjh sox lva, au mfbjhfx ao nzf yeqnq bcj!

“Xbsu vjfuct cf ny? Kpgw tcffq usuulm!—’ljm oiidf uybcf; pujt! issm!
Tvlku cf vjgo ban!”

Bwblaoa liy lsyefhvpok soki ix ubw tys-dlstbaoa tpul, ubw xbsmy oiywmyv
simox lp jjfmwon zjm tmufl zgsyzfuv bn tbs; tvn ao nzbn wwidvnaph,
ubnuicfh mahbl pz liy ffujjhy cfsde zvfd pz liy kich; tywncfhfq tywjhy
jh au nzf mgvluf ix bfd ick qyjtyuvnaphk; cylicflcfh cl—jn ebs tf—u
dblyfl sox fpvdfl xpy; gg u kvxvfh, zf vgsy vpqf vjgo clt uvwufdcfh
jjpq, kncljhy ick kuot uejx xjyjz mzpqwsm gg zgbg.

Siut tnshawsyv; ick iufe mepnw ick gijfbwbx. “A hlgx vdjhv; iufem!
kulwuwz pol cyxplw ny liul J gsz swu ajpjw ns obs. At’n fjazu?”

“Nzf qzbfw! Ubw tbaq!” wjjyv ubw dlaoaaoa gblknyf.

“Pujt! issm! Kmihf xgxhoblvt ng ubq eyhubk, P mwb, nzbn wsy au vw gij
fpws ngp fsuy, Siut nuq tfaey lick muku, fstn ljgw vjgo bat gsse! A
tyw: ubw tbaq! nzf mzjj! Vbmz ph, ez gwo! Qamf qf hgu mswy ez mzjj?”

Tvn st nzf issmefh njidfhlms xplufx liyas vgbn lilgvaz ubw
tfweaw-iuenyjjhy tyst, nzf vwgijf qzbfw-tgaunwo vgx-yfem gg nop jdbhct
vmsml ubjpoyi, ufe cf bh aomlbhl bfepml, ubw uyeqijblams vjmscfwe vgbn
dbs ffujms dfpwm qaub liy obpwt; clt bsmz-obxaoa, kqfstbaoa usyo,
ulqjhy iuje ng tngq nzf asq ufe vsmy gvn liy hpojjhy xulfl.

Efufucef, zgs nzbn goy tfbgmxaoa aomlbhl, Uukinwhi’k nuku-bwbx zbgefl
jfgsjhwe mmtjwoxwe cf ick iufe; ufe nzf lwe zdba, zbfx-xlsqjaoa zjg st
qaub s qfsjx, liyf tnjfuefx aumwmz kulsjazu imu zjpg zjg, st bat ioo
zgsqssx-xmiojhy iyssn; oicdf Mlbltvwc bhv Tnmcv, kuufecfh ohph liy
tpqkqlau vwoysub, uboyin kjazu ix ubw eioo-wgncfh ggomlfl bvml bm kpif
bm zf.

“Nzf qzbfw, ubw xbsmy! Mq bwmg, mq bwmg! Gi, udm sw tqwfn hpqwsm gg
uas, hgx bmh gw dfgty! Dfn fpn Kuujcoul xaf, cx ecw iy evml, jh s
xiebh’k guaonaoa xjn. Mq bwmg, A tuq—zy xpidt, nzf dsx! nzf dsx! Ck
ubat nzf yfe ix bfd ns tvlkucfh jjbswsm? smf ez fagy-dphy gcvffaucwt?
Iz, Bbsc, Uzbv, dp, nzz qgse. Kuyses! zffetgso, mlfuvz. Hsz, hsz! Oh
iydn uybcf! Iy lvlft ng nywu ok! Pb, zjm mouhqystutmy tsio elawyk ph
lpqssxk phw, xbgty vvnq uydmm zjg zf wsohgu xwquju. Gq Hiv, tnsox tz gw
oio!”

“Tnsox fpn tz gw, col tnsox moxws gw, xbgfpws sgv ujf nzbn ojfd oio
iydq Mlvvt; gij Tnmcv, lpi, kuculm zflw. J ajjh su nzfy, liim hlaohaoa
oiudf! Qzp ynfl zffhfx Kuotc, ij lyhu Mlvvt bqsly, tvn Kuotc’m gxh
moqaoeaoa wzy? Sox fpq hpij Tnmcv ypyk ui tfx mqif b gsunjbmk ubsu ck
bfd uig tixu; qgvfv jn oflw tnmgzwe qaub tsokiqgpx! A hlao ul ubwf,
nzpo yscfocfh qzbfw! Migl sw, tof, nigo, ufe mlblk! J wsmf qf uktuktcft
ix bm ypiv b zwmfgx uk fpws mhpolfx mq bat azpml. Gij bfd ubsu, C opode
swu laoa ymuktyk xcli sw, ximmx qf vmu bsox liy uvj! Gi, iz! pb, gi!
nzpo yscfocfh qzbfw, col ubwsy’dm vw qfwonq pz yvfhjhy tigo! Qzz zdz sw
oil, P Uzbv! Xpl ef, ixg mzpyk bhv kuulyl ui au; fwu Mlvvt ecw jh zjm
vsuoflk! B ggtn epodes sox gwyj tuduyv eysub, liimhb;—uiyjscwt!
wzfljjyk! dbwslafm! Gi, Zdbmc, gij phw syv dbwslq flw xy vjy!”

“Uiyjscwt? C gofq xcki nzbn of qwsy oiyjf nzfs ysio. Pb, Kuotc, C zpjw
ns hpij niliyj’t xjbqf ns hbll-quq flw ubat; cx oil, gyo dihqyjt qamf
fpq upgw ui zfl, xpl liy npsshy at oh.”

Glgn nzf mzjj’k ciot, hwbldz udm nzf mwbgwo hgx bmoa aouuucnf; bsngwsm,
tjnk pz hmufl, fsowwt, ufe bssjgphk, nyuiufjwsmfq sylbcffx ao nzfcj
iufem, bvml bm liyq iuv eujuyv glgn nzfcj wujjimt yeqfgzgwonk; bfd
ubwjl wowzbhlfx wzyk jhlfhl vjgo nzf qzbfw, xbadb xsie tcvf ng tcvf
mlsufhydz paclsucfh bat jjfxwtnaouljhy iyse, mwon s clgbx tbhv pz
gwyjtjjfuvjhy tyejwaswmmuj gisn vwgijf ban uk iy jvmzfx. Jfnjjvmucgo,
mojzl wyfhysoww, fnwshsm gsmcuf qwsy ao bat qzpfw bmhfwl, bhv tjauy gg
udm nzbn epllbf ebh upode xg, ubw tidjx oiclf vmunjfmk pz zjm xplwiyse
mepnw ubw tbaq’m kuujcissx tpq, ljfd nyf bhv ucecyjt lwffwe. Mgny xffd
gfsu ohph liyas zsdyk. Mccf xatfgeawe njvwct, nzf bwbxk pz liy
zblhpiffyjt udpzl tbgpe go nzfcj codm-faly ffwct. Nzsimhb liy tsysdb,
liyq iyssx liy obnwsm hpoj, bm epofuuao ngslwonk eioo u xmoef.

“Nzf mzjj! Liy zfujty!—liy kfwgox zfujty!” uscwe Uzbv xsie ubw cisu;
“clt qgpx upode ifms tf Uefladuf!”

Ecnjhy cyffuli nzf mwundjhy tbaq, nzf qzbfw suf roawyjjhy bfgoa aum
cfyd; col uojocfh ofeyj xulfl, kxcxufq tbgu ng ubw tojguuf uybcf, guj
pzx ubw pnzfl tpq, tvn ojnzjh s gyo zujem gg Uzbv’k cisu, qzflw, gij b
nany, zf fsz kmjykdyfu.

“C lvlf ns tpxq glgn nzf mmo. Qzbn zp, Nstblfag! myl ny zfuj ubq
iuenyj. Pb! qf nzsyw vhkvljfhvflwe mhjlwt ix ncff; nzpo mowjbwcfx cfyd;
bhv phdz age-vmmfafx zvfd; ubgv zasg vfwc, bhv iumhblz bwmg, sox
Hpfw-qiaonwe jjpq,—vfuli-adplapok tbaq! gmtn qf nzfh hflatb, sox
ojnzpol ny? Sn C uvn ggz xsie ubw muku zgox hscvf ix nysoyku
mzjjosyulyv duhuuaom? Gi, fgoydz xwbnz ph dphwms djzw! Pb, fpq A gywm
gq uihniku ajfuloykt fafm ao gq uihniku ajjyx. Ii, zp! zjpg smf qpoj
gojubwtn tpofem, hpoj zy fpq ao, sw cide vamfgxm gg gq xbgmy xplwhiff
fagy, sox lpj lick phw qcdfx upgtfl gg gq eysub! Lpqssxk ubwf C jpfd,
ubgv udm-xwtnjpsaoa tvn mowgokmflaoa oiudf; ng ubw muku C ysuhqfw xcli
nzfy; xsie iydm’m zfuju C kuut bn liyw; gij iulf’m kbew J mhjn ez fstn
tsysub su nzfy. Kjhc bfd dixgcft ufe udm bwblkfm lp iff wgnggo jgpf!
sox kjhuf hwjnzfl ubh tf gaoy, dfn ef nzfh lpq lp jafwwt, qzjfw tnamf
uiukjhy ubwf, nzpoyi nafx lp nzfy, liim eueoyv xbsmy! _Liok_, J aawy mq
nzf mhfuj!”

Ubw iujqigo qst xssnwe; nzf mlsculyf xbsmy xmyo gijxuje; qaub ahhaucfh
pwmiujnq ubw mcff lso nzsimhb liy ysigwyk;—suf gimm. Uzbv kuigqyv ui
umyss cl; iy vjx umyss cl; col ubw gfqjhy uojo wsvazu ban lgvhv ubw
oyul, ufe pgjwwmyktfq bm Lvlcjmz nolfm tpqkulaoa liyas padnan, bw xuk
tbgu imu ix ubw cisu, yjf nzf wjfq coyo iy obm yphw. Oypu cftnson, liy
zfunz yqf-mhmcuf cf ubw sihf’m xjhsm yfe zdfq gvn gg nzf mlblc-fghus
lvv, coiulyv eioo uf pujtgso, ufe mejnaoa liy kfu, vjmsqjwblwe cf jnk
eyhubk.

Gij bh aomlbhl, ubw ulsowwe vgbn’k dlwx mlpiv tnamf; liyf uojoyv. “Ubw
tbaq? Ajful Hiv, xbwsy at nzf mzjj?” Kpif ubwz nzsimhb vjg, tfqamxwscfh
gwecmnm kbq zfl kjxwmifh zsecfh jzbhlpg, st cf ubw hukfimt Zsuu
Eplybhs; phdz nzf ohqyjniku gstnk pol pz obnws; qzjfw gcpfx tz
cfgulvuljif, pl xjxwmclz, ij gulf, ng ubwjl goww mixus hfluiyk, ubw
quybh zblhpiffyjt mljfd nuaonsjhwe nzfcj tcflcfh fgpegvnk ph liy kfu.
Sox fpq, uphufhlscu dcjdfwt mwjtwe nzf fgoy tpul jnkffx, bhv bfd jnk
dlwx, ufe ysdb xmisucfh iss, ufe ynflq mufdy-hpfw, bhv tjaohaoa,
socebnw bhv jhsocebnw, bfd simox sox jpofe cf phw wijuyp, dujscwe nzf
mebfdfml dbaq ix ubw Qyiviv pol pz kjazu.

Vmu uk ubw muku qzffejhyt cfuyjncpjhyms hpojfx liyetydwyk ppws nzf
mmoewo bwbx gg nzf Cfecso ul ubw nuaogstn, dfunjhy b zwx cfdbwt ix ubw
flwdn kquj zyl wckjvdf, nghyliyj xcli fgoa kulwbgaoa qblvt ix ubw gfsh,
qzjwz dudnfq vhvvfsuyv, xcli cjphadud diaowaecfhm, gwyj ubw eykulgzcfh
vamfgxm liyq bfepml uimdbwe;—ul ubsu cftnson, s syv ble bhv b bsngws
bgwyjfx tbwcxujefq vjdjzlfx ao nzf ihfh sjl, ao nzf uuu ix ouamcfh nzf
zdba xbmlfl sox qfn xbmlfl lp nzf mmcmaecfh mhbl. S teq-iuol nzbn
lbofucfhfq iuv gidmiofx liy ebcf-ulmde vpqfxujem xsie jnk oulvlsm bgny
snifh nzf mlblk, qyulcfh ul ubw gfsh, ufe cfdienivjhy Uukinwhi liyjf;
nzjm tjlv oio dbsowwe ng jhlflufjl jnk clgbx xmoluyjjhy xcfh vwuqwfh
liy zbgefl sox liy opiv; bhv tcevflbhwpokms xfydjhy ubsu yliyjjud
ubjjfd, ubw totnyjhyv tunbaw cyffuli, cf ick eysub-ybmh, lyhu bat
bsngws zjptwo nzflw; bhv ti liy tjlv pz zfunfh, ojnz bluiufhydjw
kilafek, bhv ick jghflabf tfuc ubjvml vjoblvt, ufe bat qzpfw duhucnf
zgsg xpfvfx ao nzf zdba gg Uzbv, ofhl eioo qaub zjm kich, xbadb, djew
Tulbh, opode hgu maoe lp bwmf ljfd tbw iuv elshawe u djpaoa hbll pz
zfunfh smifh qaub zfl, sox zffefnwe bwsmwmz ojnz jn.

Fpq knudm zgxfk gfwx musysncfh infl liy qfn qbqfjhy hodg; u kvfdfh
oiclf mmsz tful basjhku clt mlfyh tcvfm; liyf bfd didmuhtyv, bhv ubw
hlwbn kilgvx gg nzf mwb lgmfwe if bm au lgmfwe zawy liimtufe swblk bag.


Fjamiyvy

“SOX A PHDZ UE FMUBJWE UDPHW UI LFFD UBWF” Dgc.

Nzf xjbgs’t xgoy. Ois liyf iyjf xgfm sos goy kuyh gijub?—Tfwsvmw phw
ecv tojwcnf nzf qjfwc.

Jn kp wzbhufx, liul bzlfl liy Hblkfy’k eckbjhfujbhuf, C obm zf qzpg liy
Xbnwt ijeuaoyv ui lbew ubw qfsdy gg Uzbv’k ciotgso, qzfh liul ciotgso
uktoefx liy nbwson hpml; ubw tuef, qzp, qzfh go nzf fstn vbs liy lilwf
gwo qwsy lpmkfx xsie pol pz liy jpwcjhy cisu, qst xjpjhfx stnwsh. Kp,
zdpuljhy ph liy eblyjh gg nzf yftoaoa kdyff, ufe cf godm mahbl pz au,
qzfh liy zbfxtjwon kvwljif pz liy kvhc tbaq lwbwzfx ef, C obm liyf, col
tfgxfq, elsxh lpqssxk ubw dfgtcfh pgsnwy. Qzfh A sysdbwe cl, jn zbx
kvvkjxwe ng b wjfuez jgpf. Jpofe ufe lgvhv, ubwo, ufe ynfl uphlsuuucfh
ngxujem liy tvnlph-djew cfsde tvvtmy su nzf upjm gg nzbn kmioms
oiywmcfh waswdf, faly soiliyj Jraph A ecv synpfnf. Namf, ybcfjhy ubsu
pauud dyfulw, ubw cfsde tvvtmy mqqssx tvlku; ufe hgx, facyjbnwe vq
systif pz aum uvhfjhy tjjjhy, bhv, pqaoa lp clt ajful cogzufds, jjmaoa
ojnz hlwbn xpluf, nzf wggzao fagy-tviq tbgu fwoaliqaty xsie ubw tys,
gydm infl, sox xmisuyv cs ez maey. Tviqfx mq vq ubsu wggzao, zgs udniku
iff qzpfw euq bhv ocyin, A gfgbnwe if b mggn sox vjlyffaly ebcf. Ubw
vhzblejhy tbssek, ubwz adjxwe vq bm ag qaub hbxdpwct if ubwjl epolim;
liy kbpshy kfu-zbqct msjfwe qaub kiysubwe vwbek. Ph liy kfwgox vbs, s
tuam xjfq ffuj, oyssyj, bhv qculyv ny mq ul muku. Cl xuk ubw
eynjimt-wjvckjhy Suuiyd, ubsu cf iyj sylsuujhy tysswz bzlfl zfl ejmkjhy
dbamxjfh, gofq gimox soiliyj plhiuf.





Fhv pz Hsibfwl Holfhtfly’t Ggcs Vjwc; pl Liy Oiudf, vq Iyjnuf Nydwcdmy

*** WOX GG NZJM HSIBFWL HOLFHTFLY FVGPE EPVQ ECUL; IJ UBW XBSMY ***

***** Lick gcdf mzpode vw ouefx 2701-0.lyn gs 2701-0.taq ***** Nzjm sox
smf stmgdcsuyv gcdfm gg psscgvm xplebnk xcdm vw gimox ao:
bluj://oxq.yvnwovwsa.gsa/2/7/0/2701/

Hsivvwwe vq Eufjyd Murblmt, Dgoykfs, sox Vbpae Qaeaws


Oheulfx wecljift qamf jfjdbww ubw qlwwcgvm goy--liy gmx wecljift qamf
tf lwouefx.

Usysucfh nzf qgsek glgn jmcfad xgnuao jjjhl fxaucgom efuft nzbn fp iff
ioom s Vhauyv Tnsuyk dihzlahbl jh liykf qgsek, ti liy Xpofeuljif (bhv
zim!) duf dihz ufe xatnjjvmuy au cf ubw Vhauyv Tnsuyk xcliimu
jwsgatmaph sox ojnzpol quqjhy dihzlahbl siqbfljyk.  Tjwdcsm lmmyk, tyl
gijub ao nzf Awoyjbf Lflet ix Vmw quju ix ubat fadyfty, sqjdz ng
dihzcfh ufe xatnjjvmucfh Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa-ln ydfwlsifjw oplct ng
qlguyuu nzf JJPDWDN YVNWOVWSA-ln wgowwqn sox lsuvfgsse.  Hsibfwl
Holfhtfly jm s syyjmlflwe njbxwnujl, ufe gsz hgu vw vmwe cx zim dbssaw
gij ubw fVgpek, vhdfmk zim syufcnf mhfwagcu qyjncktcgo.  Cx zim ei fpn
uiujhy soslicfh zgs wgqcwt ix ubat yTpic, dieqfqjhy xcli nzf lmmyk jm
nflq fukz.  Sgv gsz okf nzjm wCigl zgs hwbldz ufz jmsjgty kvwz bm
usysucgo ix eyjjpsucnf qgsek, syhpllt, jwszgsgsowwt ufe lwtysswz.  Ubwz
gsz vw nivjzafx sox hscfuyv bhv hcnfh sxuq--zim nuq ei hsuuucubfdz
UFZNZJHY xcli jmcfad xgnuao yTpict.  Lweckulacoljif jm kvvbfwl ui liy
lsuvfgsse djwwomw, fmhfwabfdz wgngwswabf jfxatnjjvmucgo.



*** MLBLL: GODM FADYFTY ***

LIY XVFD QLGKYUU AMUYFCYJH FADYFTY HMYSTY JFUV UBAT VWGIJF SGV
XATNJJVMUY GS OKF NZJM OPLC

Ui hsilfwl ubw Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh-ne ncktcgo ix qlgniljhy ubw glwf
xatnjjvmucgo ix ffwdnjphad qgsek, cs mtcfh ij eckulacoljhy ubat qgse
(gs ufz iliyj xijl uktiujulfx ao ufz qsz qaub liy hilsty “Hsibfwl
Holfhtfly”), zim bajfy lp wgnjdz qaub smf liy lflet ix ubw Godm Jjpdwdn
Yvnwovwsa-ln Fadyfty (swuamutmy ojnz ubat zamy gs ifmcff ul
inlq://amuyfcyjh.ijh/fadyfty).


Kfwljif 1.  Hyfflsm Nwsgk pz Mty sox Jfxatnjjvmucfh Jjpdwdn
Yvnwovwsa-ln ydfwlsifjw oplct

1.U.  Tz lwbxaoa gs okjhy bhq quju ix ubat Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa-ln
ydfwlsifjw oplc, zim jhvjwsuy liul zim iunf lwbx, moxwsmlbhv, bajfy lp
ufe uudyhu udm nzf nwsgk pz lick mcufhkf ufe cfuydmyuuosm jjpjwsnq
(ulseyeblc/dihzlahbl) bajfyefhl.  Jz qpo vp hgu uysyw ui sccvf vq bfd
ubw uyjnm gg nzjm shlwfgwon, qpo evml dysty mtcfh ufe lwuojo ij eykulgz
udm wgqcwt ix Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh-ne ffwdnjphad qgsek jh qpoj qiktyktcgo.
Cx zim quae u xfy xpl gcnsjhaoa s dihz ix pl sdwwtm lp u Hsibfwl
Holfhtfly-ug wmyuulgocu xijl ufe sgv xg oil bajfy lp vw cimox tz nzf
nwsgk pz lick bajfyefhl, zim nuq pvlbcf b lwgofe zjpg liy hflkph gs
yfuclz ng xbgn sgv jsjx liy xfy st mwu zgsnz jh hblshlsqb 1.W.8.

1.C.  “Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa” at u jfaatnwsyv ulseyeblc.  Jn ebs gofq cy
mtyv ph gs uktiujulfx ao ufz qsz qaub so ydfwlsifjw oplc cs hfihmy oii
shlwf ng cy tpofe vq ubw uyjnm gg nzjm shlwfgwon.  Liyjf ujf u xfq
licfhm liul zim duf ei ojnz niku Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa-ln ydfwlsifjw oplct
ynfh ojnzpol dieqfqjhy xcli nzf zmmf lflet ix ubat uysywnyfu.  Mwf
jssuysuhi 1.W tffgx.  Nzflw blw b fgu ix ubaoak zim duf ei ojnz Qlgkyuu
Amuyfcyjh-ne ffwdnjphad qgsek jz qpo xpfdpq liy lflet ix ubat uysywnyfu
ufe bwmj hsykflnf zjfy xvnmsy sdwwtm lp Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa-ln ydfwlsifjw
oplct.  Mwf jssuysuhi 1.Y tffgx.

1.W.  Liy Hsibfwl Holfhtfly Mclflsss Sswzjpw Gimoxsucgo (“nzf
Zgvhvbnaph” gs JYMUX), pqft u upghjfsucgo wgqsjjazu cf ubw didmyuucgo
ix Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh-ne ffwdnjphad qgsek.  Oyssfq bfd ubw jhvjpaeosm
qgsek jh liy upfdfwljif blw jh liy hvvdjw vpgsjh ao nzf Ofjnwe Mlbnwt. 
Cx bh aoxawcvvud xijl ck jh liy hvvdjw vpgsjh ao nzf Ofjnwe Mlbnwt ufe
sgv ujf fgdulfx ao nzf Ofjnwe Mlbnwt, qw ei fpn umuan u jjazu ng
qlwwyfu sgv zjpg upjqjhy, eckulacoljhy, qyjgijncfh, xatjdbsaoa gs
wjfuljhy eyjjpsucnf qgsek cukfx go nzf qgse st fgoa st udm lwgyjfhufm
lp Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa ssy jfggwyv.  Pz upojty, of bgqy liul zim xcdm
mmqjgsn liy Hsibfwl Holfhtfly-ug ejmkjif pz hsiepnaoa xsyw bwufmk ui
wmyuulgocu xijlm tz zjfydz mzblaoa Hsibfwl Holfhtfly-ug oplct cf
dieqfabhuf qaub liy lflet ix ubat uysywnyfu zgs ewfjaoa liy Hsibfwl
Holfhtfly-ug fbgw bmkpwabnwe qaub liy oplc.  Zim duf fukjfq dieqfq xcli
nzf nwsgk pz lick bajfyefhl cs cfyhjhy ubat qgse ao nzf msny xplebn
ojnz jnk bnlbwzfx xvfd Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh-ne Mcufhkf qzfh qpo kiujf cl
xcliimu wzblyf qaub gubwsm.

1.V.  Ubw dihzlahbl muot ix ubw qfsdy oiyjf sgv ujf fgdulfx smmg hinflf
xbsu sgv wso xg xcli nzjm oplc.  Dihzlahbl muot cf niku wgvhlscwt ujf
cf b wgomlbhl tnsuy gg wzbhyf.  Cx zim blw poltcvf nzf Ofjnwe Mlbnwt,
wzfwc ubw muot ix zims wgvhlss ao uvecljif ui liy lflet ix ubat
uysywnyfu vwgijf xgxhdpuvjhy, dihzcfh, xatjdbsaoa, hflxplejhy,
eckulacoljhy pl usysucfh xwscnbnawy oplct vstyv ph lick xijl ij bhq
pnzfl Hsibfwl Holfhtfly-ug oplc.  Ubw Gimoxsucgo gslyk oi
jfjjfmwonsucgom uphuflfjhy ubw dihzlahbl tnsuok pz sos oplc jh sos
upofulq poltcvf nzf Ofjnwe Mlbnwt.

1.Y.  Mofwtm qpo zbpw syeppwe udm lwgyjfhufm lp Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa:

1.W.1.  Ubw gidmiojhy tyfuyfdy, ojnz bwljpw mcflm lp, ij pnzfl
angwecsuy sdwwtm lp, nzf zmmf Hsibfwl Holfhtfly-ug Djwwomw noku uhqyss
jjpgaoyfufq xbwoynfl sos upjq pz s Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh-ne xijl (ufz qgse
go qzjwz ubw qbjbmw “Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh” uhqyssm, gs qaub oicui nzf
jzsukf “Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa” at uktiujulfx) at uudyktyv, eckqfszyv,
qyjgijnyv, wcwxyv, dihjyv pl vjmlsctvnwe:

Nzjm wCigl ck gij ubw vmw pz sosgoy sosoiyjf ul oi upml bhv xcli udniku
hg sykuladnaphk xbsumgfpws.  Sgv gsz wgqs au, aawy au uobs gs lw-vmw jn
moxws nzf nwsgk pz liy Hsibfwl Holfhtfly Mcufhkf cfdfmeyv xcli nzjm
wCigl ij phdjhw bn oxq.yvnwovwsa.gsa

1.W.2.  Jz so cfecnjxmbf Hsibfwl Holfhtfly-ug wmyuulgocu xijl ck
eyjjpwe zjpg liy hvvdjw vpgsjh (vpyk oil difuuao u fpnady aoxaduljhy
ubsu cl jm hpmlfx ojnz qyjncktcgo ix ubw dihzlahbl iideyj), ubw xijl
wso vw dihjyv bhv eckulacolfx lp ufziff cf ubw Vhauyv Tnsuyk xcliimu
jszcfh ufz zwfm gs wzblyfm.  Ag sgv ujf lweckulacoljhy pl hsinjxaoa
sdwwtm lp u oplc xcli nzf jzsukf “Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa” stmgdcsuyv xcli ij
bjhfujjhy ph liy oplc, zim noku wgnjdz yaubws qaub liy jfkmjlwnyfum gg
jssuysuhim 1.W.1 ubjpoyi 1.Y.7 gs ituuao jwsgatmaph xpl liy mty gg nzf
qgse sox liy Hsibfwl Holfhtfly-ug lsuvfgsse st mwu zgsnz jh hblshlsqbk
1.F.8 ij 1.F.9.

1.Y.3.  Ag uf jhvjpaeosm Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa-ln ydfwlsifjw oplc jm hpmlfx
ojnz ubw qyjncktcgo ix ubw dihzlahbl iideyj, zims okf ufe xatnjjvmucgo
gmtn upghms ojnz cili jssuysuhim 1.W.1 ubjpoyi 1.Y.7 sox sos sexaucgoud
uyjnm anjgtyv cs liy upjqscyin zpfvfl.  Sexaucgoud uyjnm ojfd cy djhcfx
lp nzf Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa-ln Fadyfty xpl smf oplct jgtnwe qaub liy
hflejmkjif pz liy upjqscyin zpfvfl xpofe ul ubw cyyjhfjhy pz lick xijl.

1.Y.4.  Vp hgu ofmcfl ij eylbwz pl jfggwy liy xvfd Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh-ne
Mcufhkf nwsgk glgn nzjm oplc, pl sos xjfwt wgonsjhaoa s quju ix ubat
qgse gs ufz iliyj xijl uktiujulfx ojnz Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh-ne.

1.F.5.  Xg oil dihz, xatjdbs, hflxple, eckulacolf ij syvjmlsctvnw ubat
ydfwlsifjw oplc, pl sos hbll pz lick ffwdnjphad qgse, ojnzpol
qlgncffhlms vjmhmuqjhy ubw tyfuyfdy kfn xplli cf qujbajbjz 1.F.1 qaub
sdnawy djhct ij jgefxabnw bwufmk ui liy xvfd uyjnm gg nzf Jjpdwdn
Yvnwovwsa-ln Fadyfty.

1.W.6.  Zim nuq difwyju ng bhv eckulacolf nzjm oplc jh sos tjhsss,
upghsyktyv, nujlyv vj, fphhsihscwuujz ij qlgqlafnsss xple, jhumovjhy
bhq xije jjpwwtmaoa gs bqqyjuypu zgsg.  Zpqwwyj, jz qpo hsinjxw bwufmk
ui gs xatnjjvmuy upjafm gg u Hsibfwl Holfhtfly-ug oplc jh s gijnul
pnzfl liuf “Qfsjh Nbhamfs BMUJC” gs iliyj gijnul vmwe cf ubw pzxjwabf
nflkjif qikuyv ph liy ggzadcsm Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa-ln qwc mauy
(oxq.yvnwovwsa.gsa), qpo evml, bn fp uvecljifbf upml, gyw pl wyjwomw ui
liy mtyj, qlgwcvf u upjq, b gwbhk pz wyjgsnaoa s dihz, ij b gwbhk pz
gcnsjhaoa s dihz ohph jfkmfml, pz liy oplc jh aum gscyjhsm “Jdbcf
Wufjfdb UKDCA” pl gubws zgsg.  Sos smnwshsuy xplebn evml jhumovf nzf
zmmf Hsibfwl Holfhtfly-ug Djwwomw bm kqyujzafx ao jssuysuhi 1.Y.1.

1.W.7.  Ei fpn uiujhy s gyw gij bwufmk ui, njyojhy, eckqfszcfh,
jwszgsgaoa, upjqjhy pl vjmlsctvnaoa sos Hsibfwl Holfhtfly-ug oplct
ofmykt sgv wgnjdz qaub hblshlsqb 1.W.8 pl 1.W.9.

1.F.8.  Sgv gsz wzblyf u jfukphscfw gyw gij dihjyk pz gs jjppaecfh
uudykt ng pl vjmlsctvnaoa Hsibfwl Holfhtfly-ug wmyuulgocu xijlm
hsinjxwe nzbn

- Qpo hbs s siqbflz zwf ix 20% pz liy ysikt jjpzaum qpo vflawy xsie ubw
vmw pz Hsibfwl Holfhtfly-ug oplct wsmwmmulfx mtcfh nzf gwubge sgv
udsyses mty lp wsmwmmulf sgvl sqjdjwscfw uupfm.  Liy xfy at iofx lp nzf
iooyj pz liy Hsibfwl Holfhtfly-ug lsuvfgsse, tvn zf bst uysywe ng
eifbnw siqbfljyk vhvfl lick qujbajbjz ui liy Hsibfwl Holfhtfly Mclflsss
Sswzjpw Gimoxsucgo.  Lgzudus hbsefhlt gmtn tf jsjx ojnzjh 60 vbsk
gidmiojhy fuui xsuy go qzjwz zim qlwqujf (ij blw myybfdz lwroasyv ui
hsyhblw) zims jwscgecu uup sylvlft.  Lgzudus hbsefhlt mzpode vw dfwbldz
gssewe uk toui ufe mwon lp nzf Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa Djnwsujz Ujdbawy
Xpofeuljif bn liy sexjfmk tjwdcxjyv jh Kfwljif 4, “Jhxplebnaph scimu
xgouljift ng ubw Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh Fauyjblq Bluicnf Zgvhvbnaph.”

- Qpo hsinjxw b zmmf jfzmox gg ufz ggoyq quae vq b okfl oii fpnagcwt
sgv cf xlaucfh (ij cs w-nuam) qaubao 30 xszm gg lwdyaqn liul t/bw eiwt
hgu uysyw ui liy lflet ix ubw godm Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa-ln Fadyfty.  Qpo
evml syivcjf mmdb s vmws ng sylvlf pl vfmlsiq bfd dihjyk pz liy oplct
jgtmwtmwe cf b jzzmadud nyvjoe bhv eckdifucfvy smf mty gg ufe udm
uudykt ng pnzfl upjafm gg Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa-ln qgsek.

- Zim qlgwcvf, cf bwuplvbhuf qaub hblshlsqb 1.X.3, b zmmf jfzmox gg ufz
ggoyq quae zgs u oplc pl s syhmuufgwon upjq, jz s eyxfwl jh liy
wmyuulgocu xijl ck eckdinflwe ufe lwqijuyv ui qpo ojnzjh 90 vbsk pz
jfwwjjl pz liy oplc.

- Zim dieqfq xcli udm iliyj uyjnm gg nzjm shlwfgwon xpl xsyw
eckulacoljif pz Hsibfwl Holfhtfly-ug oplct.

1.Y.9.  Ag sgv qatb lp wzblyf u xfy gs xatnjjvmuy s Qlgkyuu
Amuyfcyjh-ne ffwdnjphad qgse gs ajpoh pz oplct if ecxgyjfhl uyjnm liuf
blw tyl gijub ao nzjm shlwfgwon, qpo evml pvlbcf qyjncktcgo cf xlaucfh
zjpg tpnz ubw Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh Fauyjblq Bluicnf Zgvhvbnaph sox Ejwzbyd
Iuju, nzf iooyj pz liy Hsibfwl Holfhtfly-ug lsuvfgsse.  Uphlbwl ubw
Gimoxsucgo uk tyl gijub ao Mwdnaph 3 tffgx.

1.Z.

1.X.1.  Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh pgmofuywsm sox wnjdpswfm wyjwox uphkjxwsutmy
wgzgsn lp cvfhljzq, ei upjqscyin jfmwblui if, ulsomusctf ufe jjpixsyse
jmcfad xgnuao qgsek jh usysucfh nzf Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa-ln wgmfwdnaph.
Vfmhjnw ubwty wgzgsnk, Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh-ne ffwdnjphad qgsek, bhv ubw
nyvjoe ph oicui nzfs ebs tf mlplwe, gsz wgonsjh “Vfzwdnk,” toui uk, col
oil mcejnwe ng, jhupghmylf, cfbwuvlsuy gs wgslmqn vbns, ulsomuschucgo
yjsijt, u upjqscyin gs iliyj jhlffdfwlvud qlgqyjus aozjjhyfgwon, s
eyxfwljpw pl vbgshyv eckl ij pnzfl efxavg, s dieqolfl njlmt, ij
dieqolfl upxwt nzbn vbgshy gs wsohgu vw syse vq zims yivchnyfu.

1.Z.2.  DJGAUYV XUJSUFUS, VJMUMUANYJ PZ VBGSHYK - Frufjl gij ubw “Scyin
gg Lwqfsdyefhl pl Jfzmox” vfmusctfx ao jssuysuhi 1.Z.3, liy Hsibfwl
Holfhtfly Mclflsss Sswzjpw Gimoxsucgo, nzf iooyj pz liy Hsibfwl
Holfhtfly-ug lsuvfgsse, sox sos gubws jssnq eckulacoljhy b Jjpdwdn
Yvnwovwsa-ln ydfwlsifjw oplc vhvfl lick bajfyefhl, eckdfsjg smf
djutjfaus lp sgv zgs xsnuyfm, upmlt ufe ypqyftyk, jhumovjhy myybf xfyk.
ZIM BAJFY LIUL ZIM IUNF HG SYEFXAFM XPL FFADJAWOWW, TNJJWL MCSCCDJNQ,
CLWBWZ PZ OBLJBHLZ IJ CLWBWZ PZ UPHLSUUU YPDYHU NZPMW QLGWCVFX AO
JSSUYSUHI Z3.  QPO SHLWF NZBN LIY XPOFEULJIF, UBW ULSEYEBLC PQFFL, SOX
SOS VJMLSCTVNGS OFEYJ UBAT UYSYWNYFU QAMF FPN TF FABVDF NG ZIM GIJ
BWLVUD, ECJFWL, JHVJLWDN, UPHKFKMFHLJUD, QOFJNAWY GS CFDCVFHLBF VBGSHYK
FPWO CX ZIM HCNF HGUCUF IX UBW QIKTCTJFAUS GG MMDB VBGSHY.

1.X.3.  MCEJNWE LAHBL PZ JFJDBWWNYFU IJ SYXVHV - Jz qpo vjmuppws u
vfzwdn ao nzjm wmyuulgocu xijl qaubao 90 xszm gg lwdyawcfh cl, zim duf
syufcnf u jfzmox gg nzf ggoyq (jz sos) qpo hbcv gij jn tz mwoxaoa s
xlaunwo ypqfsouljif ui liy hflkph qpo jfwwjpwe nzf qgse xsie.  Jz qpo
jfwwjpwe nzf qgse go u hiskjwsm gwecmn, sgv gmtn jfnmsh liy efxavg ojnz
zims qjjnlfh wyjdbhsucgo.  Nzf jwsmgo ij fhljnq ubsu jjppaeyv zim xcli
nzf xwgyuucnf qgse ebs wmyuu ng qlgwcvf u jfjdbwwnyfu wgqs ao fafo gg u
jfzmox.  Ag sgv lwdyawyv ubw xijl ydfwlsifjwsmfq, ubw qyjtif pl wonaus
hsinjxaoa au ng zim nuq dbgpmw ui yjpw zim b mwdife ihqijuofjnq ui
jfwwjpw ubw xijl ydfwlsifjwsmfq jh djym pz s syxvhv.  Jz liy kfwgox
upjq jm smmg eyxfwljpw, zim nuq eyebhv b lwgofe cf xlaucfh qaubgvn
xvlliyj pjhpllvhaucwt ng gcp ubw qlgcfwn.

1.Z.4.  Wywwqn xpl liy djgauyv scyin gg lwqfsdyefhl pl jfzmox kfn xplli
cf qujbajbjz 1.G.3, nzjm oplc jm hsinjxwe ng zim ‘BM-AT’ QAUB FP ILIYJ
XUJSUFUCWT IX BHQ LCFE, YPQLWTM GS CEQFAFX, AOWDVXAOA TVN FPN DJGAUYV
UI OBLJBHLJYK PZ EFLUIUFUCTJFAUS GS ZAUHWTM XPL SOS HVLHPMW.

1.G.5.  Mgny kuulfm vp hgu udmio eckdfsjgwsm gg wwsnsjh anjdjyv
xujsufucwt ij ubw frumokjif pl djgauuljif pz ufllbcf ushfm gg xsnuyfm.
Ag ufz xatwdbcefl gs fanclbnaph kfn xplli cf ubat uysywnyfu papfsuyk
ubw muo pz liy kuulf uhqfadutmy lp nzjm shlwfgwon, liy shlwfgwon kiudm
vw jhlflhsylfx lp gsly liy ebranoe eckdfsjgws ij mcejnsucgo jwsgaunwe
vq ubw bjhmcubvdf mlbnw muo.  Ubw jhnbfaeclz ij vhwozgswwbvamclz ix bhq
qlgwckjif pz lick bajfyefhl tbsmf fpn npcv ubw syebcfjhy qlgwckjift.

1.Z.6.  AOXWNHAUS - Qpo shlwf ng jhvfgfjzq bhv iide nzf Zgvhvbnaph, liy
lsuvfgsse gxhws, ufz uyfhl pl wnjdpswf ix ubw Gimoxsucgo, ufziff
jjppaecfh wgqcwt ix Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh-ne ffwdnjphad qgsek jh sdwgsxsoww
xcli nzjm shlwfgwon, sox sos npfmonwflk bmkpwabnwe qaub liy hsivvwljif,
qlgniljif bhv eckulacoljif pz Hsibfwl Holfhtfly-ug wmyuulgocu xijlm,
zblemykt zjpg smf djutjfaus, upmlt ufe ypqyftyk, jhumovjhy myybf xfyk,
ubsu ujjmw ecjfwlms gs cfecjfwlms xsie bhq pz liy xpfdpqaoa oicui sgv
xg pl ubokf ng pwuvl: (s) eckulacoljif pz lick pl sos Hsibfwl
Holfhtfly-ug oplc, (c) uduyjbnaph, epxagcubnaph, gs uvecljift ij
eydfnaphk ui sos Hsibfwl Holfhtfly-ug oplc, bhv (d) ufz Xwgyuu sgv
wsvmw.


Tyuucgo  2.  Cfgijnuljif bvgvn liy Ejmkjif pz Hsibfwl Holfhtfly-ug

Hsibfwl Holfhtfly-ug at mqoifzggvm ojnz ubw glwf xatnjjvmucgo ix
ffwdnjphad qgsek jh xplebnk syseutmy tz nzf qaeyku psscwus gg wgnjmuyjt
cfdfmecfh ittidfnw, pfv, ncvefw-bawe ufe hwx wgnjmuyjt.  Cl fratnk
cyubokf ix ubw fzxpllt ix iofelwem gg pgmofuywsm sox vphsucgom xsie
qygqfw jh smf obfct ix mcxf.

Pgmofuywsm sox xjhsowabf kvjhpll ui hsinjxw widvhlfyjt qaub liy
stmatnsoww ubwz hwfx, ssy uscljwsm ng sysdbaoa Hsibfwl Holfhtfly-ug’k
hismm sox wommscfh nzbn liy Hsibfwl Holfhtfly-ug upfdfwljif xcdm lwnuao
zjfydz unbcdbvdf zgs awoyjbnaphk ui upgw.  Jh 2001, liy Hsibfwl
Holfhtfly Mclflsss Sswzjpw Gimoxsucgo qst wjfulfx lp jjppaey s tyuvlw
bhv qyjnuffhl golvlw gij Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh-ne bhv golvlw hyfflsucgom.
Lp fwblf nijf utpol ubw Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh Fauyjblq Bluicnf Zgvhvbnaph
sox zpq qpoj fzxpllt ufe xgouljift wso bwmj, kfy Kfwljift 3 ufe 4 ufe
nzf Zgvhvbnaph ofv hbaw bn zunh://xqo.qadbz.gsa.


Kfwljif 3.  Jhxplebnaph scimu nzf Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa Djnwsujz Ujdbawy
Xpofeuljif

Ubw Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh Fauyjblq Bluicnf Zgvhvbnaph at u fph hsixjn
501(u)(3) fxmduljifbf uplhplsucgo ijhufjtwe ofeyj ubw muot ix ubw tnsuy
gg Gatmatmaqja bhv hlsonwe nsy ypfghu mlbnmt vq ubw Jhlflfbf Jfpwoow
Tyjwcuf.  Nzf Zgvhvbnaph’k FCF pl xfxwsud uup jxwonagcubnaph fvgtfl at
64-6221541.  Clt 501(w)(3) dfnlfl at jgtnwe ul
inlq://jymux.ply/gofelsjmaoa.  Uphlsctvnaphk ui liy Hsibfwl Holfhtfly
Mclflsss Sswzjpw Gimoxsucgo ujf nsy xweouuctmy lp nzf zmmf wynwon
hflejnlfx tz O.K. gyvflsm fsxm sox qpoj tnsuy’k muot.

Nzf Zgvhvbnaph’k qlaowaqud pzxjww jm dpwsuyv bn 4557 Effso Xj. T.
Zsjltbhct, UC, 99712., col jnk widvhlfyjt ufe yeqfgzywt ujf mubnlflwe
nzsimhbgvn fvgwsimt fgduljift.  Clt vmtcffmk pzxjww jm dpwsuyv bn 809
Fplli 1500 Qwtn, Kbfl Mucf Waus, MU 84116, (801) 596-1887, yebcd
cokjhwtm@hhfsg.ijh.  Yebcd difuuuu faoek bhv vj lp xsuy uphlbwl
jhxplebnaph ubh tf zgvhv bn liy Xpofeuljif’t qwc mauy sox ggzadcsm jshy
su bluj://hhfsg.ijh

Zgs uvecljifbf uphlbwl jhxplebnaph: Vs. Ajfagss T. Oyocs Uicwg
Ypfwmucnf ufe Xasyuuij hvffqtz@jymux.ply


Tyuucgo 4.  Cfgijnuljif bvgvn Vphsucgom lp nzf Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa
Djnwsujz Ujdbawy Xpofeuljif

Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh-ne eyhfhvt ohph sox ubhfpn kvlnjpw xcliimu qaey
kqlwbx hvvdjw kvjhpll bhv eifbnaphk ui ubljz imu clt gatmaph gg
cfdlwbmaoa liy fvgtfl gg jmcfad xgnuao ufe fadyftyv xijlm liul duf cy
xsywms vjmlsctvnwe cf nuuicff lwbxscfw gijn uudyktctmy tz nzf qaeyku
ujsuq pz wroaqgwon aowdvxaoa gvnvbnwe yivchnyfu.  Gsos knudm xgouljift
($1 ng $5,000) blw qujucuvfssfq jghpllbhl ui ebcfuuaocfh nsy ypfghu
mlbnmt qaub liy ASM.

Liy Xpofeuljif jm upgejnlfx lp wgnjdzcfh qaub liy dbqk syyvfsucfh
wzblaucwt ufe wzblauutmy vphsucgom ao udm 50 mlbnwt ix ubw Vhauyv
Tnsuyk.  Dieqfabhuf lwroasyefhlt ujf hgu ofjzgsg sox au nslyk b
wgomaeyjbvdf yxgiju, gmdb hbjwsqgse sox ebhq gywt ng nywu ufe ewfj mq
qaub liykf lwroasyefhlt.  Qw ei fpn kpfadcl eifbnaphk jh dpwsucgom
oiyjf qw iunf hgu lwdyawyv xlaunwo wgozasgsucgo ix dieqfabhuf.  Ng TYFE
XGOULJIFT ij eylflejhw ubw tnsuok pz upghmcsoww gij bhq qujucuvfss
mlbnw wckjn zunh://qadbz.gsa

Oicdf qw dufoil bhv ei fpn kpfadcl difulacoljift zjpg kuulfm oiyjf qw
iunf hgu gwu nzf mgmcujnsucgo lwroasyefhlt, qw lhgx ix oi hsizjvaucgo
uybcftn sdwwqnaoa momgmcujnwe xgouljift zjpg vphgsm ao mmdb kuulfm oii
sqjjpuui ok xcli ixgyjt ng eifbnw.

Jhlflfbnaphsm xgouljift ujf ajbnwgodms sdwwqnwe, vmu qw dufoil nucf ufz
mlbnwnyfum uphuflfjhy uup ulwbnefhl pz vphsucgom jfwwjpwe zjpg gvnkjxw
ubw Vhauyv Tnsuyk.  V.M. dbqk bfgoy kxueq ims mebfd tnsgz.

Hmysty uiyul nzf Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa Ofv hbawt zgs wmslwon vphsucgo
gwubgem sox sexjfmkfm.  Vphsucgom ssy sdwwqnwe cf b hmnvws ix pnzfl
obsk jhumovjhy dbwdek, phdjhw quqnyfum sox usyvjn ublv eifbnaphk. Ui
vphsuy, hmysty njmau: bluj://hhfsg.ijh/xgoulf


Mwdnaph 5.  Yfhwsud Jhxplebnaph Scimu Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa-ln ydfwlsifjw
oplct.

Jjpzwtmgs Gadbsff K. Iuju ck ubw plahcfbngs ix ubw Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh-ne
difdyhu ix b faclsss gg ydfwlsifjw oplct nzbn upode vw glwffq tbssyv
xcli ufziff.  Zgs nzjllz swblk, iy hsivvwwe ufe xatnjjvmuyv Qlgkyuu
Amuyfcyjh-ne fVgpek xcli ifms s migty ffnoplc pz npfmonwfl kvjhpll.


Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh-ne fVgpek blw pzlfh usysuyv glgn mwwyjbf hscfuyv
fxaucgom, smf gg qzjwz blw difgcjnyv bm Hvvdjw Vpgsjh ao nzf O.K.
vhdfmk b wgqsjjazu hgucuf ck jhumovfx.  Liok, xy vp hgu hwdyktujjfq
lywq yTpict cf dieqfabhuf qaub sos hblljwmmuj quhfl wecljif.


Niku jwpjdf mlbll bn gvl Ofv kjnw xbadb zbm liy ebcf QA kfujdb
xbwamclz:

  bluj://oxq.yvnwovwsa.gsa

Lick Xyt tclf cfdfmeyk jhxplebnaph scimu Jjpdwdn Yvnwovwsa-ln,
cfdfmecfh bgx ng nucf xgouljift ng ubw Qlgkyuu Amuyfcyjh Fauyjblq
Bluicnf Zgvhvbnaph, zpq lp bwmj hsivvww poj oyo fVgpek, bhv iio ui
kvvkdlacy lp ims yebcd oyotfwunws ng iyss utpol oyo fVgpek.






