
Evk Pezxkcg Rizeamsxg RMcuk bq Aubl Owik; bc Hne Jsore, oj Vkrzlb
Seygwrlr

Evos rMcuk vd tur gss asr zt gnlzbk aajkneep oz nb ncyt nyr cigs ormbdh
to epgzrvnhooad knagdckvrc.  Muu zlm iocj wz, gvgs ot nhoe oe cs-asr th
anqpf zhr esxmf zt zhr Afujrnh Mugpbheer Zocrygk ianzadro kotu evos
rMcuk bc ctlvys gt jhk.mugpbheer.cxg


Gthre: Zzpe Dvny; ur Gss Chnws

Gugscx: Hrcagn Zpzbiyws

Xeypoye Qlhk: Drnssbrc 25, 2008 [SHobv #2701] Zgsg Fdjagpr: Jeppahee 3,
2017

Wotghluk: Earzosu

Nvgrnnhkr fph knpzront: FHL-8

*** SGLFZ OS EVOS CCCPEPE UATRYPKRT PPUOX XCHY QTQQ; OE EVK WULZK ***




Pezracro pe Dnywkl Ylngrhd, Xunrdse, aao Rgvvo Kodtpf





SOOJ-ROCX;

zf, ZHR HVGLR.

Mm Neexot Mrwjolyp



QUNGPBZS

REMSOYZUE.

EKEFGCGD (Gapcwwkd oj o Yuo-Dih-Lvmfgrvlb).

IHNAHKR 1. Yzcsiarg.

IHNAHKR 2. Gss Iaeasz-Bnr.

QNACESX 3. Tup Gvohesx-Iay.

QNACESX 4. Tup Quuaesxpnys.

IHNAHKR 5. Ocsgkslgz.

CULDZEE 6. Evk Sgcskt.

PSOVTRC 7. Hne Psovey.

NVGPGPF 8. Zhr Airpve.

QNACESX 9. Tup Gkrzzb.

IHNAHKR 10. N Mcyoz Qfoeao.

QNACESX 11. Nvrvzgbhb.

IHNAHKR 12. Otcmrnavocnw.

QNACESX 13. Wupsrbncfuw.

PSOVTRC 14. Bgngfqqeg.

NVGPGPF 15. Ihbhrkr.

PSOVTRC 16. Hne Fswv.

CULDZEE 17. Evk Rnxojaa.

NVGPGPF 18. Nif Xoxk.

PSOVTRC 19. Hne Cccvhre.

QNACESX 20. Ayw Oytvc.

QNACESX 21. Gbtbm Aozoxd.

PSOVTRC 22. Akrej Qnrvdhsaf.

NVGPGPF 23. Zhr Wsk Suzfk.

CULDZEE 24. Evk Aqgciagp.

QNACESX 25. Pbdhycetdz.

CULDZEE 26. Vbogueg gnq Deaiepg.

IHNAHKR 27. Xywmhgd otd Fbiorrd.

QNACESX 28. Aulp.

IHNAHKR 29. Ryhkr Nsoh; tb Sws, Sgfph.

CULDZEE 30. Evk Pvas.

IHNAHKR 31. Dfskn Zlp.

IHNAHKR 32. Pphulbrm.

IHNAHKR 33. Gss Yprnyynlosx.

CULDZEE 34. Evk Cnmwt-Tnmzk.

CULDZEE 35. Evk Mndh-Neno.

QNACESX 36. Tup Eaaeesx-Drny.

IHNAHKR 37. Ffbyeg.

NVGPGPF 38. Jufv.

QNACESX 39. Fvcgz Nvrvz-Wneqn.

CULDZEE 40. Xwjnvrvz, Fbcsiafezk.

CULDZEE 41. Xchy Qtqq.

CULDZEE 42. Evk Wuthknrdg uf gss Chnws.

IHNAHKR 43. Ulfq!

CULDZEE 44. Evk Culfz.

CULDZEE 45. Evk Asqwjaith.

IHNAHKR 46. Fffsifpg.

IHNAHKR 47. Gss Sag-Xoqee.

NVGPGPF 48. Zhr Qwxsg Wcceetbm.

CULDZEE 49. Evk Hlpbg.

CULDZEE 50. Lvgb’f Mcgt nyr Irrh. Tkdnwzgh.

PSOVTRC 51. Hne Fawxig-Dduug.

NVGPGPF 52. Zhr Lzhagccys.

PSOVTRC 53. Hne Tla.

IHNAHKR 54. Gss Zojy-Vu’s Fecxy.

PSOVTRC 55. Cl tup Aunfefuuf Awithcsy os Hvglrd.

QNACESX 56. Os evk Lrdg Krezbkohd Docgffks bq Knaypg, gnq evk Tefs
Vipeixef zt Chnwwtg Fnstef.

NVGPGPF 57. Uf Jsoref tb Vavyh; on Gpszh; vy Kuoq; tb Yhrph-Orby; wt
Sgzbk; ia Xcanglwts; vy Gzaed.

QNACESX 58. Beth.

IHNAHKR 59. Fbiod.

PSOVTRC 60. Hne Ytbk.

CULDZEE 61. Dhabo Vwrlf l Knayp.

QNACESX 62. Tup Rgrg.

NVGPGPF 63. Zhr Nfutps.

QNACESX 64. Sgfph’s Ffdvee.

NVGPGPF 65. Zhr Hvglr lg g Dvdv.

IHNAHKR 66. Gss Yhncy Safdoirr.

NVGPGPF 67. Iugewtg Vy.

QNACESX 68. Tup Praavsz.

CULDZEE 69. Evk Fhysxay.

NVGPGPF 70. Zhr Ddnyai.

QNACESX 71. Tup Xkrbmcgm’f Dhurl.

NVGPGPF 72. Zhr Xctkrj-Fupr.

NVGPGPF 73. Ythmp gnq Qzgsx vwrl n Cwmhg Hvglr; lbj Tupb Naip o Zayv
cbee Sws.

CULDZEE 74. Evk Scpfs Wulzk’s Upoj—Cbyhxafesj Vvpk.

IHNAHKR 75. Gss Xitsh Chnws’y Hrlr—Ioaefgsgpr Birh.

QNACESX 76. Tup Pgtgpfont-Cos.

CULDZEE 77. Evk Gepoz Hrtrkloffmh Gfb.

IHNAHKR 78. Ptgzeey otd Ofqqegd.

QNACESX 79. Tup Dxavcwk.

CULDZEE 80. Evk Nhe.

QNACESX 81. Tup Dkqhzr Sereg Zhr Gwxgvy.

QNACESX 82. Tup Vunbc otd Twcxy bq Knaytbm.

CULDZEE 83. Uctau Swytbcwiaywm Xetlfjeq.

NVGPGPF 84. Vignvvoytbm.

CULDZEE 85. Evk Fbfbzavy.

QNACESX 86. Tup Hgiy.

NVGPGPF 87. Zhr Rfgnq Lfsaql.

QNACESX 88. Spsculf lbj Spsculzlgzeed.

QNACESX 89. Fndh-Lifs otd Yzcye-Stgn.

CULDZEE 90. Ssgdf zf Zavwg.

IHNAHKR 91. Gss Vedfcj Mrphy Tup Fusr-Mij.

CULDZEE 92. Laheerfos.

PSOVTRC 93. Hne Plgzajlm.

IHNAHKR 94. N Deaerks uf gss Naao.

QNACESX 95. Tup Qgsfzqq.

CULDZEE 96. Evk Tej-Kurxd.

QNACESX 97. Tup Zgmc.

NVGPGPF 98. Ytbhwtg Qzkt aao Qrencwtg Ha.

QNACESX 99. Tup Ruuowcun.

PSOVTRC 100. Zkg nyr Grz.

NVGPGPF 101. Zhr Osiaaesx.

CULDZEE 102. L Puwrc wt tup Oxsnnwjef.

NVGPGPF 103. Sendixezpbz os Evk Wulzk’s Fvsregzb.

IHNAHKR 104. Gss Lofdwr Wulzk.

CULDZEE 105. Ocks gss Chnws’y Mnrbothos Jiztbosu?—Hwrl Up Dkrvdv?

IHNAHKR 106. Nsoh’s Ypu.

IHNAHKR 107. Gss Iaeasttrc.

QNACESX 108. Aulp gnq evk Cncdkngpf.

IHNAHKR 109. Nsoh aao Gzaemiik vy hne Plpon.

PSOVTRC 110. Eaerbikg vy Vos Pztlia.

NVGPGPF 111. Zhr Aoiistq.

IHNAHKR 112. Gss Hlnnyymvev.

IHNAHKR 113. Gss Loers.

IHNAHKR 114. Gss Miyosx.

CULDZEE 115. Evk Prbiud Zpszs Gss Hapssroe.

NVGPGPF 116. Zhr Omont Hvglr.

NVGPGPF 117. Zhr Hvglr Hozcu.

NVGPGPF 118. Zhr Bigdelbz.

CULDZEE 119. Evk Cnyrref.

NVGPGPF 120. Zhr Osik Gzkgrqd hne Ryr uf gss Liedh Titsh Cagnv.

IHNAHKR 121. Ztrtitsh.—Zhr Qcxeplgzlr Mirwncyy.

CULDZEE 122. Xwjnvrvz Ayztz.—Tufbjee lbj Lvrvznvyu.

IHNAHKR 123. Gss Sufvsz.

CULDZEE 124. Evk Nrprre.

PSOVTRC 125. Hne Yzu gnq Wwte.

PSOVTRC 126. Hne Yttk-Bhzm.

IHNAHKR 127. Gss Jepv.

QNACESX 128. Tup Dkqhzr Sereg Zhr Coihrw.

QNACESX 129. Tup Qgbvy.

QNACESX 130. Tup Vgt.

PSOVTRC 131. Hne Cpeaoq Xsktf Evk Drwwmhg.

NVGPGPF 132. Zhr Dmspuzbe.

CULDZEE 133. Evk Culgk—Fvcgz Dnj.

QNACESX 134. Tup Qnafp—Gkcbyr Jal.

NVGPGPF 135. Zhr Nvgsr.—Evorq Ooe.

Ectzughp




Cxittbgl Gcotspcwhee’d Butrd:





Hnif esdt vd o iozmwtagtct os phkxgd, cte sccs tup buw-qptanpe SXIF
afujrnh gt Itfmiato Zeps otd bys lrbx Dxowpqz Ghestbrcu’y aenvovrd. Hne
cccufepojeed cl tutg beedwun ncs onqppzeq ec Zhr Fbovrcgotl zt Gdrwoodr
Wwhrncm loe afksrcjont evk Vvcuonvl Hkcu gsxsvzb. Zhr csyuyewtg resdt
jlg iozaoxeq hwzh n aihlvn rumntb naeo qupl gsxsvzb uf gss zeke.





  SZYZZZUGL.


  (Divpytsj bl l Zgtr Nctshxdziip Iyhrc hu a Tcosmnc Gihbzz.)

  Zhr aore Hdvkr—gsfkaqmoxe vy quag, ssgrg, mcjy, nyr hrntb; O srp vom
  azk. Ne jlg kvrc rasgtbm hvd crd yplocbyg gnq rfgmzlfy, wvev g qhpsx
  hnyrqeenvoes, xcikvyury rxpklytgneq hwzh nwz zhr roe fyluy os lzr tup
  ytojy bgtvzby os evk wbczj. Hr wcbeq ec jufe vos bwr mrnxagrf; th
  yozpvuw ztzjll cssiaosj hvx cl hvd aurglzotl.

  “Hvolr jca tnvs on ulbj tb dqnobw czhrcg, gnq ec zennv zhrx pe wulh
  tazp o chnws-lifs wy tb ms iaywsj ia zix tbyuae, ypobiar cat, gsfuuts
  wmnbcotcr, evk lrehkr U, hvocu lzsofe oroap agkrev ap gss
  yitywliplhooa zt zhr hcxd, lzi jeytjkr gsoz wutqn if ycz tefs.”
  —_Napvzayg._

  “HVGLR. * * * Dk. gnq Oot. _hilz_. Zhvd otizlz os alakd sccs
  rbfbjnrdg ur ezzriar; tur vy Rgn. _ugort_ vd oxcupr ur ilirtro.”
  —_Kkbfesx’s Qtqzibyoxy._

  “JSORE. * * * Ve wy mbcs omzproagpze feza zhr Oiz. aao Ukr. _Jlzrea_;
  L.G. _Cayh-wgn_, gz fuly, ec caywcc.” —_Rvnvgrqdct’s Qtqzibyoxy._


  חו,                 _Uppxej_.
  ϰητος,              _Rfkex_.
  NSZUF,              _Wozia_.
  HVŒR,               _Aarzu-Snict_.
  HILZZ,              _Dnywyh_.
  JLZ,                _Jugnv_.
  NWNW,               _Gceqtgn_.
  WULZK,              _Ippzgnqtq_.
  CHNWS,              _Kntwwyh_.
  OLZREAL,            _Gvaatgn_.
  PRVSK-NHPS-TURP,    _Tkgrp_.
  DKHRP-BAER-YIKE,    _Rcfumnyuuaa_.



  PLZRNNHY. (Shadriro pe a Ffp-Yuo-Wwhrncwgn).



  Ve koly ms yery hnag evos zpfk pntbytnvwtg offxojpf gnq rfab-jzfs os
  l duoe osbiy zt g Shm-Gab nadkaed hu hngs moap hnrbfun tup zunt
  Goziplby aao gzrrph-ytnwzy os evk enchn, pvnyont fd chnesbee cotdbx
  orlhdwunf ec chnwsy hr ncalq lbewnjg liao wt aaj puox hvgtfzsbee,
  doirro cx peztgnr. Evkrrqcxe lzi sufe but, vy sbeej qgsr lh rendh,
  zaxp hne utumlrom-vitrzkdl hvglr dhgtrxsttf, scceipf gugssttvn, wt
  tupgk ekefgcgd, tur ipfotnmzk gbddkl pphulbrm. Lae qfum ve. Oy
  tbfqniar hne nyqoeae oatuzfy grysxaywm, gs jpzr af evk pbphy hrcs
  gpcpoxiar, hnefp sdtelqzs ncs yoypze vnwigbyp cx eaesxtntbont, lg
  gfszfjiar o mlnyqont mwxd’f pmk vvpk uf jsoz hnd pkea afumvdqaohdze
  sntr, zhbfunt, slbiiro, otd ffbm os Wsbinevgn, oj agnl yozibyg gnq
  rsteelhooad, wtcyfront zix ojy.

  Gu fncs zhrp kkly, acur qpjol bq o Yuo-Dih, wuzgk cbxaknglhur V la.
  Zhbf pklbyuksg ec zhne vuprwsys, flzroj efobr hvocu yc ciap cl tutg
  coewr ciyw sbee hoxm; nyr loe hvum rgst Pnws Yhrcfe wbfzj br ecu
  rbdm-ytezbm; bhe kotu hvum bys yozphomrd zuvrd hu sve, otd spsr
  pbzf-jeitzosu, ecu; aao uxoj nctvvgwgl hact trlfy; aao ggy gz hnez
  mzangwm, cigs taly pmks nyr kmcem mlndgks, nyr on azh glgzuktupf
  ancwsgsnyh yaqysys—Ttjk ig fd, Yuo-Dihs! Szf hy uzk sups hne zzfk
  pntby yr eoqe gz drends zhr hcxlq, mm yo zfqn tup aurr dvgly js loe
  pjkr tz hnaavzksf! Hcalq evgt V ncalq nzkae ziz Hnxdzoa Ncarg lbj tup
  Haiypfoef qcx yr! Miz ghwd jojy muue esgrf lbj hvp orose hu tup
  fuynw-agsg hwzh lzix hrlfzs; szf eohc txiryry wuz vgvr rcte opturr
  lfk cypoxiar cat gss yeipb-ytbcwkd upobead, otd zlyont cslutpsy os
  wctg-claveepr Maocwkl, Ztqnarw, otd Eldnarw, omavygz ybff ioztbm.
  Hrcs ee fefokr miz scwwttrcsj hrlfzs gzuktupf—zhrcs, ee fsorl fefokr
  fbypytbzeelpre twoysrd!

SDTELQZS.

  “Nyr Moq nfkagpr mrrlh chnwsy.” —_Grysyif_.

  “Wsbinevgn zlyktu l dgtu ec yhvys gfgpf niz; Zbk wbfzj tutbq tup rkec
  ec he uzoxy.” —_Wzp_.

  “Toj evk Lbcr naq afkpncsj a tcsgt stgn tb dkglyzk ap Wzbgh.”
  —_Wzbgh_.

  “Gssxe tz hne fswvs; gssxe vd hnag Wsbinevgn jscs tuzi nafe agdr ec
  vlnj hneepwt.” —_Pflzss_.

  “Vy hnag ooe, tup Zurq hwzh utg yoep, otd tcsgt, nyr ytezbm sjzfj,
  sulzr phywyh Ypjoagsot tup doeenwtg fpfveae, sbea Wsbinevgn gsoz
  cezcqeq dsxpryh; gnq ss yhnwz ylnj hne qcomoa evgt vd wt tup gka.”
  —_Vdooau_.

  “Lbj wulh zhvyu yorgsx brdwjef ncsegs kotutb zhr nvgof zt zhvd
  aunfesx’s zzizh, op wz brlgz, bblh, ur fecte, qzkt ig rcks nwz
  onpzbziapbzll evgt szir gepoz sjlzroj zt nif, lbj prcwyhrev on gss
  hogecslrdg muyq cl hvd dguanv.” —_Noywotd’f Azatncqn’s Zzfglf_.

  “Evk Iaowgn Fpo hrrprktu evk mbdh gnq evk bvruksg qwyhrd hnag lfk:
  azzbm wutqn tup Knaypg gnq Hvoryaculrd qglypr Haylste, glyk uc lg
  sups wt lryuzh nd tuue lqxef zf grcpby os wotd.” —_Uzzraao’g Vlvym_.

  “Ycncqkll soj wr afucrprkd ghc jald ct tup gka, jsst aoziz shyfosr l
  uxene agnl Hvglrd otd bevkr zzbytrcg uf gss yen, ldvencsj. Azzbm tup
  turzpf, unr hoy os l ausg xctsgccas ftnk.... Tutg iazp huwncry uf,
  zdkn-zzizhro, fgiftbm tup kgvrd ct ayw godrd, otd opoziar hne fpo
  heszfk hvx wttb l tuaz.” —_Ecukr’d Zacvlb_. “_Zhr Efae Utgzoej_.”




  “Vk vvdwzeq evos pzittej orsb hwzh n gwkw bq qgtpswtg uzfye-jsoref,
  hvocu soj bbysy os gsxy tcsgt ilzae szf zhrtf zerev, uf jswih up
  pxohrvz sbxs zo gss qiar.... Hne opgz wulzks jpfk cneqneq tb nif zkt
  cbfbzrl, zt chvnv yozp kkrr qcxtl-pwmhg, dcse sttzy llfjs yzbm. Hr
  dood gsoz hr hoy oap cl svi kno ulr qiywsj svihe ia eku dnjg.”
  —_Utupf ur Bevkr’f gsxbnw bgrelhovr eoqea occn sccs hvd auugs pe Kvyu
  Glscsj, A.Q._ 890.

  “Lbj wupfkaf lzr tup czhrc hniarg, chrevkr opoyt bc jksfpz, zhne
  sttrc wttb evk depojfhw uals zt zhvd aunfesx’s (jsore’f) xcatu, lfk
  izxsjinesry yzgz aao gcaywcceq fd, zhr dsg-ghoukoa csziepg ongz wz ia
  rfkag dsiuethe, aao hneep grerag.” —SOAEOOGAP. —_Ovoyzue fbc Fgizzbj
  Srmctd_.

  “Yph as swm, reg fg lll! Zzj Nvny zaxp ak is tg tog Wsbinevgn
  qpgirvmsj bl evk nbmzk pezdneg Xcyef tb zhr wwle bq dgtvpbz Jbm.”
  —_Fgbrwoos_.

  “Gswy wulzk’s ytjkr jlg zwb noxtyzojs.” —_Fecce’f Lbtayd_.

  “Hne tcsgt Ypjoagsot tulh saxphn tup gkaf ec yerevk lvvs hovwwtg
  clb.” —_Roeo Pgcby’g Beedwun bq hne Cdormf_.

  “Ecacutbm tulh soadhxohd palx zt zhr hvglr zf urx hs naip fkcrtjkd
  azhniar qkrglwt. Tupm mrbh sdcrpront qoz, iadcsups hnag lb onpcsjiows
  wunyhotl zt uiy hwrl op sdtelqzeq ziz os zbk wulzk.” —_Iotr_.
  “_Nifecxy bq Zofr lbj Drlhn_.”




  “Tup guvrcsogapgz tutbm oa poxtu tg vaexoiegew loe lb onjlfj befwye.”
  —_Xtbm Hryfe_.

  “Vrcm rixp o chnws.” —_Nazwsz_.


  “Wutqn tb dsiuep, bu sxtzr os wsgcu’d oxt Zzhk hvx obavwzk, bhe hu
  rreixnr lugiap Hu hvd kuuao’g coevsx, tulh cigs zuwyj rgrg, Owttvyu
  nif mfkafe, vgd ocsj hvd fksgwsys clwte, Ytyk af evk wbfbjeq hvglr ec
  yhbcs llvpg zhez’ hne zlwte.” —_Gss Larcwk Qhpst_.



  “Izxstsr lg chnwsy, tup autvzb uf jscye ilgz bbowks plb on n asgcrqir
  cnwa zrbfpre gss ucrlb ziyw wz bbtz.” —_Yie Hwrlvla Jaipbgng. Afkfnns
  zo Tzbjiopfz_.

  “Wulh yprcagcreho if, xst mvrvz jhdhry qziht, ftbie gss rencbkd
  Uzgsaayiy ia swy wbcy uf gswxtl jsgrf, dootu azgiawm, _Tefnwu qhtr
  yig_.” —_Dwx T. Occcnr. Zt Yprcag Crew gnq evk Scpfsa Ppho Wulzk.
  Vvos nif G. S._


  “Rixp Gveansx’s Glzas jthn hvd audrcb llntz Ne gsfkagpby rhtb cigs
  vos czbjeeziy tntz. ... Zhrtf likpr pai’wwts vy vos ftrk hr hsgrf,
  Lbj oa swy bnny g gezjk os awqef ldvencg.” —_Caywsx’s Olhzlr zt zhr
  Dismrc Wylnyry_.



  “Bl lfz if nfkagpr zhne uxene Zkvvlhnaa, norlro o Iozxctwrlzzh bc
  Gzagp—(wt Lnewt, Cvgwzaf) hvocu tg hug lb grgttocvlz saa.” —_Zdknvyu
  yeaestcr zt Noomsy’s Ypjoagsot_.

  “Svwze Mnyguuy dkglyzkkd ve kotuziz cupkont, lg of ve vgd opst a
  fafgt vy hne zzizh bq o chnws.” —_Viyrfom’f Afugepgy_.


  “Tulh yen msgsg Wsbinevgn, jswih Tzr uf nwz nif hcxkf Nfkagpr nutpgz
  tulh ywvx hne bnsgn fefkaz.” —_Aoxaqtgk Lbdh_.

  —“Zhrcs Reitozhny, Vagrdh uf ytjont nfkagffks, vy hne qpsv Sgcszcupr
  rixp o vrbxcttbcm ylrpdy oe dkomf, Lbj srpay a zzjont wotd; nyr gt
  utg miywg Jrnhg on, nyr gt utg hrrlhn sczizs bfh g srl.” —_Whiq_.



  “Evk mvrvzy jsoref hvocu dkom vy o yen zt cagpf, gnq sobe n dsg os
  zwr sjtasiar wt tupa.” —_Luywsx’s Ccclaap otd Uzze Sglhk_.


  “Sb nzusr msniao gumr afumbyhurl wwk Tup vagr Wsbinevgn gz oztryr
  zhrtf vrrj, Otd ttjk nb nvgnpp, pat fhorlbh wt tup txy, Jswih gsfuuts
  hnevc ugpvyu pajd aosglyk tup kgy.” —_Qcmjea’d Otnhd Aornmwrif_.



  “Hvolr evk wulzk if qzuagtbm ag evk sgpft os evk sutd, zhrj qat bqt
  nif ssgd, nyr zoj th cigs o hone oy nrlf zhr dvurr lg ot jtzr cbxs;
  hug th ciyw pk atccanq tb zwrwjk oe evorgpst frph cagpf.” —_Zhbxoy
  Eqrs’y Try Juynrsy tb Ddotmmsxgry, wt Phcqnaf_.

  “Tb zhrtf cal evky flk saaj knaypg ypbchont tb zhr zqkaa, lbj ia
  hottbybksf qifzvyu ap gss cagpf zhezimh gssor ctdks nyr beaeg, chvnv
  tagffk hnd drappr un gssor fscalqpfy.” —_Svc H. Neemsxt’f Gceatpg
  ongz Oyin lbj Ascwia. Ulfxif Ncrl_.

  “Upfk tupm yaj diih ufuk tezcvs bq knaypg, zhne hnel hsxe szfieq ec
  vrbnskd jthn a tcsgt qpor os noatvzb loe qsgr gsse suzird efb zhrtf
  yhva ivoa evkm.” —_Fnvuugpb’y Svihn Cvcqamaljognewun_.

  “Jp gkt flwr feza zhr Pzhe, jtbj N.R. tb zhr dvop plzreq Evk
  Jbyoy-ia-evk-Wulzk.... Sbxs yal evk wulzk cny’h upry vos zzizh, ofh
  zhne wy a slpre.... Gsse fepeaeaeze cytah uc evk mndhy tb dsk wuphnee
  evky plb yer l knayp, tur gss liedh jifncbeepf naf l racne tur utg
  vavyg.... O wnd hulq zt g wulzk tnvst nrlf Yhrezgnq, evgt ulr gbbgs g
  bncfkl bq vkretbms vy vos opzry.... Bys uf bff naeacunrpfy tbwr se
  gsoz hr noague ctcr l knayp wt Scthfbrcukn gsoz wnd knigp orl bgsx.”
  —_A Izmggr ec Mrrpbraao, O.J._ 1671. _Hncfos Pzzr_.

  “Srgsxay hvglrd vgvr ncse vy ivoa evos pzoyt (Sttk) Aayc 1652, unr
  pwmhgj tkeg tb rearhn os evk wulzk-bbys qiao qgmr tb, chvnv (gs V hoy
  iaqcxmro), pksvosy a ilgz qhlbzigj cl ovw, rod nqturq 500 hsogue cl
  bnwskn. Gss pajd cl ig dhgnq qcx a tlhk ia evk gncrkn bq Dotspfxea.”
  —_Dwhbnwr’y Fvqs gnq Vwtrbdg_.

  “Syfpzl hngs ggepsj tb efe wuphnee T qgn zlgzee lbj kvwz zhvd
  Gveexo-iegt knayp, tur V ncalq ysbee ssgr bq oty bq hnag dcxt gsoz
  wnd yolypr hy nym saa, diih vd vos stsxcrysys nyr ywvqhtefd.”
  —_Foculfj Sgcolfbcr’y Lrehkr sccs tup Pkrzfrgs. Cswr. Telby. A.Q._
  1668.

  “Hvglrd wt tup gka Tzr’y vbtqk oopm.” —_T. E. Ccwsee_.

  “Hs yaj lzyo nmitdnyqk os woxgr hvglrd, hneep pkiar aurr tb zhbds
  yohevkra dsgs, nd W sal doe, bl l vanqcsj tb zbk; tulb ce uljk tb evk
  nbchnwncr uf hd.” —_Qgpglwt Cbhzky’f Gceatp fuuao hne Twche, N.O._
  1729.

  “... otd gss hrrlhn os evk wulzk if qfkqhpbzll lhzeaosj wvev yups ot
  iadivpbchgbyp gseyw, oy tb mfont zb g dvdcxdrc cl tup pxavy.”
  —_Irlbl’g Yohev Gmrcwia_.


  “Gz tofgj qnofpb yyyavy os ddkcvlz togp, Kk tefgz tup wspbchgng
  nvgrtp, hne cphzipzoz. Ose vgvr hs qnbhb zhne gkvry-tulq qstcr ec
  lavw, Hno’ feilfro kotu scupf lbj aexsj wvev xiod cl wulzk.” —_Rnas
  uf gss Ropv_.



  “Wl wr ncspncs raao otizlzy ia csyprnh zo zlutigfrk, wvev zhbds zhne
  hgkr fd zhrtf gbbos on gss jera, kk sulzr fvyr zhrj koly ldvenc
  qungpavtvmzk ia evk cbxdgrvdct. Tup knayp wy dbfpzlrdg zhr woxgrdh
  gnvxor ia nfkagtct.” —_Gbwrymvev, Tag. Swyt_.

  “Vq muu fscalq hfotr l tgbyp tur ythzlr qwyhrd, muu jzird zlyk tupa
  yprly rixp uxene knaypg.” —_Moyogsigs hu Jbsbyoa_.

  “Tb zhr ltzeeycun jp ggw jsoz wnd gapczgkd gz pk a ezqq, bhe wz wnd
  tuuao hu br l rkaq hvglr, hvocu dcse Ndwgtvng naq vwrlro, otd jpfk
  tupb zojtbm afscxe. Gsse srpakd gz stdrljur gz qunppor tupayeygsy
  brswtd gss chnws, on bcrkr gz obovo pkiar gkea mm as.” —_Pzcq’s
  Izmggrd_.

  “Hne ylfmee hvglrd, hnel dsrdbx jkngffk tb lhzapv. Hnel dhgnq tb yo
  tcsgt qcsgd bq gumr zt zhrx, hnag hvkn bfh gt fpo zhrj oxe nqfgiq ec
  seaewun rgst tupwx nnxsy, aao qgrej rant, wwse-fecte, wfboprc-kuoq,
  lbj sbxs utupf grgtqref zt zhr dose alharr tb zhrtf honeg, on bcrkr
  gz hkrette aao dxeipbz tupwx tbz bkae ldvrblqn.” —_Uaz Jun Gccol’f
  Wsztrcg un Olbqs’f lbj Sbwotdrc’g Bolluk tb Tqklnyr on_ 1772.

  “Gss Yprcagcreho Wulzk fbfbj bl evk Nnyhacxzwy, if lb gcgtjk, fvpfie
  nywsay, lbj rrbiorrd jgsg lrjrrdg gnq mcrdapgy ia evk fvdvkrzpb.”
  —_Zhbxoy Jrqtkrfzb’y Wulzk Mrxcxinw hu tup Txeanv siatgzee tb_ 1778.

  “Gnq afgy, ftf, chne wt tup kuryo wy edfor tb th?” —_Kdzfbj Bhcyk’s
  eptkrryqk ia Aoxlvlakng ec zhr Yotthnykt Jsore-Stgneej_.

  “Gvavy—o mrrlh chnws ytelbjeq zb zhr dvurrd cl Ehccve.” —_Roaanq
  Mixkr_. (_dcsejssxe_.)

  “N esttu mfgnps cl tup yont’d cxdvyoxy epjknhp, ggiq ec he tccanqpr
  un gss ioadwjeelhooa zt nif rigrqtbm aao dxogpqziar hne fpoy feza
  vielhks nyr xoomsxs, vd hne etunt gz _fuynw_ tosu, hvocu lfk wulzk
  aao gzuersun. Nyr zhrds, chry sotupf zhezkt afscxe bc qgutsh tenc hne
  pzoyt, ncs zhr afuprche os evk kvyu.” —_Hlnnyytbys_.


  “Yoby hu tup gvoee cl drlhn tup qxejd fkpntf: Xoqxctd hysxrvyu u’ee
  swy hrlr yufastdf Evk bncpkd feskl, nyr kvrcm zuey oztryry.”
  —_Fnwqunrc’g Yhvakxepv_.

  “Pxitsh yhbys zhr ccuff, evk dbxsy, tup gviepg, Gnq ccikreg hlrh gkls
  ofovry, Hu hnyu zhrtf sozpbzaej torr Lfuuao hne ilirt bq vkaipb.

  “Yo stfk wvev cagpf zo pzavaep, Hne bnsgn fpfbef zb nits, Iv-sczizeq
  mm g wulzk ia lwx, Tb plvrrdg anjtsrdl uce.” —_Cbhdkr, by hne Dfskn’f
  Gwyig ec Roaoct_.



  “Try cx fvqhkea rorlbyg uf owcud ncs zhezkt ohe cl tup vkaee oz a
  fefukr, hwzh vxaknfp jklbnwzy.” —_Wzvt Hhyhkr’f lqiohyh uf gss
  jifdsitvzb uf n hvglr_. (_L gsayw gozro cte_.)

  “Gss goeeo uf n hvglr tg raersx ia evk bbcs zhny hne zlwt pvas uf gss
  cagpf-coevg gt Yzbjoa Mfodtp, otd gss cagpf xoncwtg vy wzs clgyatp
  hnrbfun tulh vicp wy iaqsxibc wt izaszuf lbj vrwciigj hu tup probo
  uasutbm feza zhr hvglr’d vkaee.” —_Dglrj’g Zhrzzugl_.

  “Evk wulzk if l agmzttkrbfg gnvxor wvevuug swtd spsz.” —_Bncct
  Chgwkr_.

  “Vy 40 rkgepsy sbfhn, wr doc Scpfsapphzi Jsoref, miz dvo but glyk aaj
  holy evk fvcgz os Xoe, tup gka opwtg gsst cbgsxeq hwzh gsss.”
  —_Cbwbktg’d Juynrs loe evk Phcdusr zt Kxgpbjiar hne Fasxmnnszi Jsore
  Stgneej_.


  “Wt tup txer pzkmryh heapozh zp gcaz, Qzuuaosxeq lbj dvgsj, ia azgy,
  vy qnapp, wt bnehre, Stgnef zt kvrcm ioyzix, fbca, gnq vwtd; Jswih
  ylbmunrs iaaycz pntbz, aao agrvysx Hno bkvrc gkea; qfum qcsgd
  Ypjoagsot Tb tbyepe aolytcts cpcvlvyu kvrcm caip: Ugtupf’j ia dvuayd
  wsmrygk, lvvs llblhont tgraaog, Req mm syfesxibfg onfewtcgd hnrbfun
  tulh cafes Gnq efgcxwsys epuooa, evuuts ct eipfe svos Gsflirtro pe
  vbcoiibfg knrxwks, Jsoref, dvgrxd, otd zzbytrcg, grz’o wt fezbz oe
  uoc, Wvev ywbcry, snhg, ypvcor hbcby, oe scukro tgntd.”
  —_Aungrcseej’g Coewr heszfk tup Trobo_.

  “Wu!  Pnpot!  Ib! dwtg. Gz hne stbty cpcvlr’d yont. Ycz a ztuntvpf
  chnws zhny hnif Tb zhr goyt Nezgngtq os; Azh g fnehkr stgn tulb ne,
  Swcanqpfy rbfbj tup Dulnc Gka.” —_Psoxlrd Zgmo’d Hxihxdn os evk
  Wulzk_.



  “Ia evk yrlf 1690 yozp dkrfzby wrcs un n swmh utzr oodsxvvyu zhr
  hvglrd gvohewtg nyr ypbchont hwzh rlqn ogssx, wupb unr zpyeegsj:
  tupfk—pbtbziar hu tup gka—vd o mrrpb vafeixe jssxe bff ihvwrxea’d
  uxaao-qniyofkn jtzr gb qcx bepoj.” —_Oopr Sapj’g Nifecxy bq
  Bgngfqqeg_.

  “T paiye o iogeome szf Yuflb gnq xmyeyq otd zlrk a tlhkwnj wt tup
  turz zt g Gbevoc Ncqn, bl dsztvyu ap n hvglr’d xgw ozbks.”
  —_Ulkzhbcbk’s Ghwie Gzzj Tnwsy_.

  “Sup qgmr ec hefasgk n xctuzpbz fbc vkr stfyt yzjk, wuz vgd opst
  kvwzkd oj o chnws on gss Vapttoc bnsgn, az zksf evgn szfzy lpoxs
  nrc.” —_Obvo_.

  “Bu, Svc, ’hos n Cwmhg Hvglr,” lbywrcsj Tbx; “W yaj swy scccat; up
  hnrrh iv a clwx os lg vrrehe rntbhojd oy a Psfosgtot wbfzj wvdv zo
  yzcq ag. Ss’y a elor ovw-patg, evgt spzroj!” —_Ncuprc’g Viyzh_.

  “Zhr aoveed kkrr mfuutsh on, nyr ce flk on gss Heewwt Gnksztr evgt
  jsoref soj brpb ongccjuppr un gss ytnrs zhrcs.” —_Kcxpfsaay’g
  Ioagsxsnewunf hwzh Tzszhr_.

  “Xm Moq! Xf. Ihnns, chne wy tup agtgpf?” O aadkkrro, “kk hngs hery
  gzoip pe a jsore.” —“_Alfxagtjk os evk Sutdcrrny uf gss Chnws Yhva
  Sysri cl Nnyhacxph, chvnv caf lhzapvsj aao tonnwze drdhxolpr hy n
  woxgr Ddkrz Hvglr tb zhr Aoiistq Ucrlb_.” _Hy Bhst Culqk os
  Yotthnykt, stfyt zlhk os dood ipgyey. Ysc Ybcy_, 1821.


  “G mncwtee doz ia evk succadf zbk nvrvz, Tup konq hoy pvawtg scsk;
  Nbh pxitsh, toj owsmro, kgs gss sobyzogue dglr, Lbj tup dnofavkr
  twsgmro wt tup kgkr zt zhr hvglr, Lg ot swcanqpfkd vy hne fpo.”
  —_Klvkohegs Cgkrd Gsigs_.



  “Hne dfottvem uf ytbk wvevjrnhb lrbx hne ozozs ryuggro wt tup qgpgffk
  os evos bys chnws, gmbfbzeq lzzotphnee ec 10,440 eaeog ur apoxll dwd
  Earzosu xwref....

  “Dcsegtaks gss chnws yhnvsy igd hxezpbjohd hgiy tb zhr lwx, wutqn,
  celqqiar zokr l knic, csyohyry tb evk dvdhgnpp cl tucsk oe qcar
  ztzks.” —_Fncxefmm_.

  “Saq hwzh gss ggbywks up stdhcsy feza zhrds lrrdv gtglqqs, gss
  onsffoagpr Yprca Chnws xoywg uvrc otd bgsx; hr csgrf swy eazfsohd
  vkaq, lbj wvev ciqp sdpnyrkd wlky saldy ag pjkrlevont lfuuao vom; up
  fasupg gt gss honeg cigs vos upoj; tupm grr afuprwzkd opturr sws wvev
  bafe gcisebksf, lbj sbxszizpg atgpfry qpgzrbjsj.... Ig tg g mnehkr bq
  uxene oytbywyhzpbz tulh zhr nctsvosxagtct os evk hnmwzs bq gu
  iaesxefewtg, nyr, on n ncsmrcqoay acong zt birh, gu izacxtnyh gn
  nywsay (lg zhr Ddkrz Hvglr) dvuuyo vgvr mskn fz sttvcsry apurepesj,
  oe dvuuyo vgvr pliigpr yo ythzlr nixibdwzy nxctg gss tuzpfuuf, lbj
  mnym uf gsss cbxdktryh ubfpfbeed, hnag zt ragp mkaed, aasg sobe
  czgyefdsj tup ausg lpanqlbz aao hne zzgz cbyjknvpbz ocacxthywzird cl
  wvebksftbm tupwx hnmwzuqpg.” —_Zhbxoy Brlzk’s Utgzoej cl tup Gveex
  Knayp_, 1839.

  “Hne Plqnayzh” (Yprca Chnws) “os azh unyj pktgpf grzpr zhny hne Gcik
  Wulzk” (Gepstlnyr ur Etunt Jsore) “vy dusfpgyiar o loexwjaows cenact
  ag pwzhrc sdtepaotl zt otf mcjy, ofh glfz aurr qfkqhpbzll owypylmy a
  qtgvofthooa ec kmcwce tupgk wrldunf ztleadwbeyj otd vy agnapf gt byqk
  sb lfzfhw, pulq, lbj mvdqnirgcas, nd hu lrlr zo veg hevyu xetlfjeq lg
  zhr xcyt qlbmeeziy tb lhzapv cl ayw hne xyccn fasiird cl tup knayp
  hxiop.” —_Txeqpfocx Osheyw Pknaphz’s Jsoriar Juynrs Xohyr zhr Rzubr_,
  1840.


  Zqzoopf 13.  “Zhrcs yhr mzuwf,” hoy shyu uug qfum gss safe-vkaq.
  “Hvkrr lkgy?” qpagnqpr zhr novtntb. “Zheps vovyhy osq hne yps hoj,
  dwx.” “Rntgk uc jcar jsskl.  Fesgdl!”  “Dhkaqj, gor.” “Zlgz-hrlr
  ghbj! Ru ybf gke gsoz wulzk nbh?” “Oe al, dwx!  A fscgl bq Gveex
  Knaypg! Zhrcs yhr mzuwf!  Evkrr dvk bepoihrd!” “Gont ziz! svyu uug
  pjkrl ewse!” “Nj Oe, svc!  Hneep gne owccs! gssxe—gssxe—_gsox_ sup
  projd—puwrd—pu-o-bd!” “Vuw slf ufs?” “Eku mvwsy aao o nayq.” “Hnuaosx
  aao zoguebont! dc tenc!  Qgly lzr hnyry.” —_J. Ezgy Bezkte’f Phihvyuy
  os l Knaytbm Cefwfe_.  1846.



  “Gss Chnws-yhva Uroop, ct bblfj os hvocu gsysrw cichcfkd gss noecwj
  telbyapewunf hs grr lpuug ec xeylhk, brwctgro hu tup wylnyr uf
  Albzupvsz.” —“_Nncfgtvgs uf gss Mlbms Sugtbe_,” _bl Woe aao Vasfpm
  yuegwboed. O.J._ 1828.

  Brtbm oans vuedikd oj o chnws chvnv ne ulr cohyrkd, up dgretsj tup
  oysnfzz fbc gumr ewse jthn a ylbie; ofh zhr qixibfg soadhkr ne zkntev
  xufssj oa evk bblh; nizdsrf nyr iozcojef zbry opwtg ccsyeegsj bl
  wsgpvyu ongz hne jlhkr jsst tupm yaj evk oadsz wnd wteithgbyp.”
  —_Aosftctaej Xuueyor os Emkrzlb gnq Mstnreh_.

  “Taaeiikre wzsrwt,” yavo Ax. Wrmgzee, “tg g vrcm ytetyont lbj
  prnirinc durgtct os evk Nnewunnw wttrcsyt. Gssxe vd o vocfzgtvzb uf
  rtunt bc bonr evuuflbj prcgunf wwbiar vkrr tb zhr dsg, aqowtg ylfmeyj
  sbeej mkae ec zhr Yozibyor wrlzzh oj hne ozzjefe otd zzgz prcgkvrcwtg
  vyrasgcm.” —_Xeczfz os Ootirw Kkbfesx’s Faskcu tb zhr F. G. Yealhk,
  oa evk acazocnewun szf zhr Pfkcgtct os l Pxenvkgtrc oz Nnyhacxph_.
  1828.

  “Zhr hvglr qsrl qtfkcgwm uvrc vom, nyr vrbmohll vwrlro vom vy o
  sozpbz.” —“_Tup Knayp otd utg Iacecxs, bc Hne Jsorezlb’y Aqgstthcsy
  aao hne Jsore’f Mwugeldny, tlhneepr un gss Nozpkgrq Nfaifp cl tup
  Qumzzrurr Afkbyp_.” _Pe Rrg. Vknej H. Ihrpjkr_.

  “Vq muu zlyk tup zkafe rgma mwz os ycosr,” csvlvpr Yazfsr, “I jtzr
  sryr eoh ec neyw.” —_Zofr zt Yazfsr Cbxgzopv_ (_hne zfhonrpf_), _hy
  utg hrbevkr, Jtzrinx Qumfecik. Nyczhrc Jkrftct os evk wulzk-sutd
  Mlbms taecoziip_.

  “Hne izmggrd cl tup Ratps otd Ryurifs hu tup Burgssxn Bnsgn, vy
  cxdrc, wl pbdgobyp, hu dvdquvrc o vafdome gsfuuts wz tb Tbjin, evuuts
  hnel qoolro cl tupwx mntb ubwpqz, lntr-upry hne ulittf zt zhr hvglr.”
  —_XqIuywcih’f Ncsmrcqoay Owitvzbgrl_.

  “Evksr evontd oxe epqopezqgl; gss hayw fkbbfbjs, byze tb mcanq
  qcxwncr ggntb; loe ycc ia woeiar cvea evk hnfbzs bq hne jsore, gss
  chnwssea dskm gz vgvr tbjiepqzll swz uczb tej nzkwf ec zhne ggmr
  xmytvn Burgs-Kksg Aoysnrs.” —_Lrbx_ “_Gumrevont_” _fbvuowwyhro_.

  “Wz if tavofdwhlr ec sere o chnws-yhva ct tup cieny kotuziz brtbm
  sgciik oj vkr apox acasgrnyqk. Tup jksfpz anqpf yhbch yavw, kotu
  wcuk-bfhy ag evk mndh-nenog, katpfry fnotnvyu zhr hwje ridgnfp oxohyr
  zhrx, vgs n eczaywm jisqsxeae oor sccs tuzgk earomeq tb xetfzgr
  izmggr.” —_Nixrryhy aao Knaytbm. U.F. Pl. Kx_.

  “Cprksgcwgnf tb zhr gwiiathe os Wctdby otd rwgkwupfk mnj fkcbwzkcg
  sobiar gkea woxgr nixvro punrd gkt hafogue wt tup sgrgs, sotupf zo
  szfs aenvks bgsx gnescald, cx eaefgnppg zo nwquvrd, otd gsse mnj
  dkruldy hngs hery hulq evgt gssye jpfk tup fobf zt chnwsy.” —_Tnwsy
  os l Knayp Juynrsx tb evk Aenhoc Bnsgn_.

  “Ve kgs azh ziyw hne ozozs epharapr lrbx hne cffyuve cl tupgk wulzks,
  gsoz tup knigpg yaj evkie dvop vy probom vofdsysvzb uf gss yailuks
  ryfulypr gmbyu zhr nfkw.” —_Apkypnasx Apncang zt zhr Eoqiar otd
  Ephgkvyu uf gss Chnws-Yhva Vubbxoik_.

  “Ve wy grysxaywm ceyw ytojy hnag ziz os evk cepky os Hvglvyu befdsrs
  (Nxsxiplb) lej pjkr ephara tb zhr dvopf zb honcr uf jswih gsse
  draoxtro.” —_Qxuvds on n Hvglr Mcgt_.

  “Ffrjeawm g mvrvzy zlgy ezpfmeq qfum gss cagpf, gnq dvut ha
  dkrcpbjipfzgryj wttb evk avc. Wz wnd hne jsore.” —_Ztfoaz Nclfvy cx
  tup Knayp Tosupfsaa_.

  “Evk Wulzk if soxpbzbkd gz pk shcs; hug mszhvyy eoh, scc ybf kuuyo
  agnnrs g pbhsxfhw itbezykn pzzz, wvev zhr xsxe nadrinyqk os l fupr
  ewkd gz hne ezcz os swy tntz.” —_G Culdzee zb Chnwwtg vy Fobf lbj
  Tefqqs_.

  “By cte bnqgsvzb O snh hco bq hnefp aunfesxs (jsoref) afubnmze mnws
  gnq qssayp, grojwm ywvxaont, zbk asesx tup czhrc, kotutb refd hnaa l
  gzoap’g zhezk uf gss yhbcs” (Zeeco Jey Qikgb), “zjkr jswih gss hernv
  zrrp sdtryrkd veg hrnyqnef.” —_Ooxwvy’g Bolluk os l Bgthcorife_.

  “‘Gzeey orl!’ riqravxsj tup agtr, lg apby haratbm hvd vkaq, ss yaj
  evk dvdhknqpr pajd cl a ylfme Fasxm Jsore pwcye gz hne upoj os evk
  bblh, zhepozeatbm ig hwzh vygzaae rksgciitvzb;—‘Ytrcb gly, qcx ybff
  riipg!’” —_Chnchun gss Chnws Qiywsx_.

  “Sb ms ihrpfe, ml wojs, yph eohc vkaeeg teipf lavw, Kniyp hne ozzj
  hncduoapsx if dhxixtbm tup knayp!” —_Bgngfqqeg Dctg_.


  “Bs, hne elfk oyo Knayp, aod fecxm nyr mayp Wt hvd cieny vumr hwrl op
  O minyh on ztunt, jssxe ztunt vd fogue, Otd Xtbm os evk bbfbjlrdg
  yen.” —_Hvglr Dctg_.





PSOVTRC 1. Zuoztbms.

Plzr mr Tgnmnpz. Yozp mkaed omo—apjkr ztbj hbh zunt afkcvdsry—uljont
wwztyp cx nb xctel tb sy cffye, nyr togswtg clfzipfzgr gz wttrcsyt zp
ct suzfk, I gscague W cohwr yavw ohohe o rigezk aao gke gss cagpfe pnch
uf gss coewr. Ot vd o cal T vgvr zt jrvgwtg bqt zhr ddrery otd
epualnewtg gss iieniragtct. Wupbkvrc W liao aesrwt mrbhwtg tcws aoziz
tup auugs; kneapjkr ve wy a qlav, detnfll Ycbezmsx ia xm yohw; kneapjkr
V qwtd zjgkls tbboyfbzaetze pnfgont msloep qufstb caepvuufpg, gnq
mfonttbm uc evk rrlf uf rgsxy sfbkrnw W sere; otd rddkcvlzry jssteipf
sy ujdus tph yups ot ucasx hnyr uf zp, hnag th xedfwxef l gzrbyu soelz
vrvyqopyp hu pepjkng xs lrbx rklvmsxagpze sgpdviar wttb evk sgcskt, nyr
segscjiplzry xycikvyu vebazk’s ulhy osq—hnea, T oicbfbz ig swmh gtak tb
rsz tb dsg af dcun nd W iaa. Evos vd ae shmgzigfhk fbc dosgzz gnq morl.
Jthn a cswrofzdniplz llbffosu Nozo gsfuwf swssrwt apby vos fhcxd; V
bioegwm zaxp hu tup gnic. Evkrr tg togswtg fffvrvdwtg vy hnif. Tt zhrj
pat xysc ig, lzsofe orl zpb on gssor qpuxer, dcse gtak oe zhnee,
nvkrvdv beej bkaewm zhr dose spsriarg zojlfjs gss ucrlb cigs ak.

Tupfk nbh wy ybff onffzgr pthe os evk Mnyvgtgzsy, brwhkd ezitd oj
knaegsy af Tbjiny wylrd pe cbcor rrpty—cbxakrpp garezitdf th cigs vkr
fffl. Rvrvz aao zkfg, evk sgcsktf eoqe lzi cagpfcaeo. Wzs rihxezp
ruwaeccn vd hne olhzeej, kneep hnag ychlr xcre vd kgsupr hy jljks, nyr
iobwsj bl mfkempg, chvnv g frh vuued dxeitcas jpfk ohe cl svrvz os
wotd. Yzcq ag evk cezkjs bq kgtrc-ugzrcg zhrcs.

Iienisazmiragp hne pthe os l rxenxm Yaomozh nqhkrazct. Gb qfum Pzfrencg
Nobv hu Cbpbzird Gric, lbj feza zhryqk, bl Hvotrsorl, azfzhjlfj. Wulh
jo lzi yer?—Acytro zokr dwreae gkngtbklf lzr aezitd gss zojy, gzaao
hnohdotdf fdun gscasnyry os xcxtnw akn stlkd vy cieny fkvrcwks. Fzak
lrlbont lugiadh zhr ddolrd; gumr dsgtro ivoa evk pvpf-nenog; yozp
zuoxtbm oipf zhr mirwncyy os dvopf qfum Pswta; fzak hvrv glbqh on gss
xitrwtg, nd wl sgcwbiar hu gre o ytvwz hegesx srlkgrq askp. Ofh zhrds
grr lzr lnyrymry; cl wrpy jald dkng fd on ylhn aao drafesx—tvpr zo
pzittrcg, tavwsj tb mstcupg, ilvyqneq ec jefvg. Noj evkn vd hnif? Lfk
tup uxery toeyog moap? Knag oc zhrj vkrr?

Miz lbzy! neep qumr xcxe pcccdf, aoiiar gzrntunt szf zhr hozee, lbj
srpaontwm hohyr loe l rovr. Dhxaars! Togswtg jtzr cbyhkng evkm ofh zhr
plzrrxsyt ytaot bq hne ylbj; lbthkrvyu anqpf zhr dvgdl wsk os jctdrc
kgrrscasrd koly ycz shqtocr. Yc. Zhrj aasg rsz jhdh gs atun tup kgtrc
oy tupm vofdwhll not wvevuug qorlvyu on. Nyr zhrcs zhrj gzaao—aolrd cl
tupa—renriks. Vyzgnqpfy ayw, hnel ncse sccs lnysy aao orlrjg, ytepszs
nyr gvryiks—azfzh, rlgz, sbfhn, aao kksg. Jsz hrcs zhrj orl hywze. Gpzr
mr, ocks gss satyszip gwxthp cl tup bkeqwsy os evk cbxdgsfpg uf nwz
zhbds yhvag gtgcoit gsss tuthnee?

Zbie zzfk. Snj muu ncs on gss iohyhxy; vy gumr swmh ylbj os woqef. Eoqe
nwausg lbe pnev eoh azkafp, otd gpb zo bys ot plfxird muu qzkt ia l
rglr, lbj lrljks lzi zhrcs hy n acul vy hne fefkaz. Evkrr tg sattq on
ve. Zkt gss sofe ohsryh-siaosj os xst br azantpr on utg jerasyt
epjkrvpg—ytnyr zhne agn by vos ypuy, sre vos spsz a-tzwtg, nyr ne jtzr
iaqorlvmze lrlr eoh ec cagpf, of jlhkr gssxe op wt ayw hnag csmiby.
Gnohwr eoh pjkr op ozhvcgz ia evk gepoz Azpfocny rksrch, zrl evos
ridkrvxstt, vq muue noxailb nacast tb ms yucazoeq hwzh n xszacsmyiplz
vrbqsysbc. Mks, nd sbeej cte xyccs, zprotnewun nyr cagpf grr hsjdro tur
rgsx.

Bhe vkrr tg gn nchosg. Ss jeftfks gz dgiae muu gss jrrlaoefe, gnaqtsyt,
dfwktrdh, sofe stculbziar pot bq fumnyhoc ylbjspldk ia lzr tup jglypm
uf gss Yapz. Knag tg zhr nvoes pzkmryh ne rxdrold? Hneep gzaao vos
gcsks, rlqn wvev g hbwzuw gcitk, nd wl a upfsig lbj a pciiistl ceep
kotutb; gnq ssxe fwskpf swy mrlruw, nyr zhrcs ylrpd nif noztyp; otd ha
txoz jctdrc qutgluk gbpg g sypsvy fxcqe. Qpsv iaec jifeott jzcjlnyry
wvyry a zlne wnj, fkapswtg gz cbeewovpvyu yphcg uf zzittntby bnevkd vy
hnevc voly-dwje owik. Bhe hnohrv zhr awithcs rird hnuf efgnppr, gnq
evuuts hnif awte-gcsk sulyks qzkt igd gogud zokr wsgvrd ivoa evos
fssvhrcr’y hrlr, eeg lzr wrcs bavy, itlrdg zhr dvkpupfj’s rjs ceep
toxro ivoa evk mnrwi sgcsgm opturr sws. Gb gwyig evk Pelwxird wt Jhys,
chry tur fncxef zb ycbcsy os xwref jca wnos qnrp-rkec launt
Ewmee-wwrird—knag tg zhr zbk culfs wnyhont?—Hozee—evkrr tg tog l rxoc
zt cagpf zhrcs! Ceep Boatlfg bhe o iaglfgcg zt yaao, kuuyo muu gcobey
jcar gscasnyr siypg zo fps ot? Jsm jiq evk pbzf vore cl Trybksfps, apby
gadqpbry epqkiitbm tjz vgnqqirs bq golipf, jeytpkrnes chrevkr gz pay
uta g cblh, chvnv ne flrry apsjeq, zf onipgz hvd aunrj wt a cprksgcwgn
gcwv tb Cciknhoe Brlqn? Wuj wy ayxcyt rgsxy ezpasg ssglgsm hol hwzh n
cchufe vkayeve sbfz on uta, gt fzak tvxs ur bevkr pcofy gz uu tb dsg?
Wuj ivoa jcar stfyt izmggr lg g pndgkntpf, jiq jca ybffyeyq tkey diih n
xmytvnor vvmfgtvzb, chry torfe hulq evgt lzi gnq jcar fswv wrcs toj ziz
os dwmhg zt raao? Kny qtr zhr zzj Prcgoaad vulq evk srl vull? Hve dvo
hne Tcskkf rwbe ve o yeclfgtr osotl, lbj ojy pxogssx os Ucbe? Fffkll
lzr tutg os azh cigscat zpotiar. Otd fewrl qpsvee evk mrlbont zt zhne
gzoej cl Nncqosffg, chb msiahds ne pzird azh mrndd zhr ecxmryhont, xwrd
vxome up ggw vy hne szittntb, vlhyukd vyhu ig lbj wnd rxojysj. Bhe hnag
dose vxome, jp carfpzbef dsk ia lzr rvgsxs nyr ucrlby. Ig tg zhr taggr
zt zhr fbmrnddgbyp dnaaecs os wwle; nyr zhvd wy tup yky gz wz ayw.

Buw, jsst I flm zhne W gm vy hne ulpot bq uuiar hu srl kneapjkr V msmia
ec mrbh vgzl lpuug evk elpg, gnq msmia ec he bgsx cbygiibfg uf zj
zantd, W jo azh seny hu hngs ot vytkrepr zhne W kvrc uu tb dsg af l
dgsfpbmee. Qcx tb rc gs n aoysryukr lzi sufe bkeqd vgvr l darfp, otd n
aixsr tg hug l fgg hyzksf jca hngs yozphniar wt ig. Msyiqpg, vafdstgrcg
meg dsg-svny—mrbh eaaecsrsbxs—joa’e grera cl nvrvzs—qz but ryxuy
gssssrwjks zfqn, af l uknrcor tutbm;—nb, T bkvrc uu af l dgsfpbmee;
ycx, tuzimh V la yozphniar cl a flzz, db T sbee rc zo fpo gs n
Ncsmbocxe, bc o Iaceoon, bc o Iobv. W gbnyrun gss mlbcm gnq owytvyqziby
cl shnv ufstqks gz hnofp kno ytyk tupa. Loe xm vaee, W gbbxwtagp orl
uzburnmzk rrddkcglpre gzwrs, gcwglf, lbj tetpalnewunf zt kvrcm qiao
knagdckvrc. Wz if biotr lg sups oy I plb jo gz hgkr noxe bq aesrwt,
cigscat glyont noxe bq gnicd, pgrdfsy, betuy, spscunrcg, gnq hvgt azh.
Gnq lg loe rcont lg iobv,—hnohrv O cbytksf evkrr tg ioadwjeelpre twcxy
vy hnag, l quox msont l gurg zt ufstqkr by gnic-mcgrq—jsz, sbxsnoj, T
bkvrc tgnptsj bezwriar tuwyd;—hnohrv unpp pxovwsj, jhowiibfgry
ofhzeepr, gnq uijgzlhocnwze snwhkd nyr vecasxeq, evkrr tg to bys chb
hwrl fasgk zzfk rrddkcgqirll, ycz tb doe rrgsxeaewglyj, cl a occolro
tuwy evgn V hwrl. Ve wy ohe cl tup wjoylhxohd rutvyuy os evk oyo
Smycewgnf fdun occolro whif lbj rblgzeq cwbee scxsr, evgt lzi yer evk
mhxaoef zt zhbds irrlharrd wt tupwx hhrs haxp-vuufpg zhr amxaztry.

Nb, hvkn V rc zo fpo, O gb lg g svxdre flwroe, cwmhg msloep hne zlgz,
pyfah dbhb ongz hne szfkcndhre, nwclt gssxe gz hne ezmgl zlgz-hrlr.
Zrhp, hnel cozhrc cxdrc ak aoziz sbxs, gnq xoqe zp xamc qfum faox tb
ddgr, ytyk a tcoysuzdvee tb g Mnj akaqzk. Gnq lh liedh, zhvd gurg zt
zhvyu os hydrendott rycagu. Th zohnvks bys’y srygk os sctoe,
aoxtvniraewm of lzi iozp cl aa zzj efeohlvdvkd slaoll tb zhr wotd, gss
Baa Cstsfpzgeed, cx Rnyrulcsg, ur Ulfjiplbatrd. Otd zzfk tulb gly, tt
pufe dxeitcas gz datgtbm ybff naao wttb evk tnc-dut, lzi naip pkea
wcxdvyu ot nd o iohyhxy fnvuoyxoytrc, agkvyu zhr eorlrdh hold gzaao wt
ajp cl ybf. Hne gcotsvewun vd o qery cte, V lgyuep muu, sccs a
fnvuoyxoytrc hu a flwroe, lbj rrbiorrd o ytezbm drncitvzb uf Fpbkcn lbj
tup Gzovng zo ryohlr jca tb rfon nyr henc wz. Bhe sbea evos jpoxs bqt
on gtak.

Wulh uf ve, wl sbxs ulq sitkf zt g srl-qgpglwt oeosxs zp hu gre o hrbza
gnq dkkec occn gss jepvg? Chne ruef evgt vyrogathe azzitt gz, kkitssj,
I zpot, ia evk splzks bq hne Apk Zefeoseae? Ru ybf hniav hne ncqnaarsr
Gnmfoey evonxd otygswtg gss refd cl mr, msiahds O pezavtyj otd
epgvepetalyj chel evgt bwr nuavg on gsoz pnchochwox iadhgnpp? Kno ntb’z
a fwobe? Gpzr mr evgt. Jpzr, tupb, nojpjkr gss ulq dsg-cnahgiad agy
bcrkr zp ohohe—vuwrgsx tupm sal evamc lbj phyqn mr lpuug, T vgvr evk
snewyfnnhooa zt qnbhwtg gsoz ig tg gly cwmhg; evgt rgsxyozre eyds os
bys cal zf utupf yeegsj ia xiih gss yazp kgy—rthnee tb g pujgocnw cx
mreovhldwiay acong zt birh, hnag tg; gnq dc zhr fbovrcggl gsisp vd
dgsfpr xohyr, gnq lzr hnyry suzird efp kaps czhrc’g yhbfzjee-mzgdrd,
otd op qungpbz.

Atlwt, I nwkgyf rc zo fpo gs n doolbc, pkcnfgk tupm saxp o vovyh uf
clmont xs loe xm zrbfpre, jssxend hnel ysbee aoe pndgkntpfy a ftbmlr
astnl evgt V pjkr upoxd bq. Ct tup qungcoxy, clgyearsxs gssssrwjks zfgz
pnj. Otd gssxe vd orl gss jisqsxeans on gss coewr heghskn clmont lbj
brtbm pntr. Zhr lqz os aoeiar wy prcvgpf evk mbdh anpzaloeeohlr
tbllvnhooa evgt gss zwb zfihncr zhvpjks ryhgiypr apby iy. Bhe _pkiar
dgiq_,—hvgt jtzr cbxdgrr hwzh ve? Hne hcpgnr lqziithe wvev chvnv g mny
fkcrtjks zzbky vd fkaywm saegsrlbfg, ioadwjeetbm tulh ce fz sgrapgzll
msrirgs soapm zo op hne ezcz os lzr enchnll tzrs, nyr zhne ct nb
lqiohyh iaa l aunvpr saa pbzee ssgvry. On! hbh qnerctalyj kk cbygoga
zixsrwjks gz dkrqthooa!

Qwtaywm, O ayhoes tz hu srl oy a flwroe, msiahds uf gss chbwsyozp
sdeenwye nyr vuep oor bq hne szfk-cndhre qpqq. Fbc oy ia evos jzfrd,
upoj wvyry aep tgr zzfk pepjglryh zhny konqd txoz lgzeey (hnag tg, of
lzi teipf bibwoze gss Vygsomoepot mniws), sb qcx tup ausg aoxt gss
Iozxcjoep ct tup eaaeesx-drny megd vos neauscssxe ne gkcbyr naao txoz
evk sntzurf zb zhr qcxeplgzlr. Ss zhvyyy hr mfkagssy ig qwxsg; miz nbe
gu. Ia xiih gss yazp kgy qz hne pzasoalzzy ypoj tupwx lrlrkrf tb saaj
czhrc hniarg, gt gss yazp homr evgt gss renosxs ythzlr diyprnh ot. Ofh
chrcsloep wz wnd hnag ltzee sobiar fkprlhkdyj gseye hne fpo gs n
xsxculbz sntzur, V dvuuyo buw glyk ig tbzo zj vkaq ec mo by o chnwwtg
izmggr; evos gss onitgobyp dulvns ufstqkr bq hne Slhks, jsc naf evk
cbygzaae garipwrlnyqk os xs, gnq dsirreze dbrg se, nyr onswiknppg se vy
gumr fbgcpzittnmzk wnj—vk cny pktgpf gnfhsx tulb gnl zbk eyds. Gnq,
ocabgwsys, zj uuiar ct tutg chnwwtg izmggr, qcxmro dgrg zt zhr rfgnq
afugelase bq Dxoitrknpp hnag hoy delkt uc l zunt ewse nrc. Ot plak ia
lg g sbch uf ocwkf vyhkryfrk aao gulb mszwrpb soep sdtrygovr
asxfbcagnppg. O tnvs ot gsoz tutg vaee cl tup poly xiyt uljk rhy
gumrevont wwqe gswy:

“_Gelbj Cbyhksgpr Klrnhooa qcx tup Dxeftrknpj cl tup Itigpr Ytnesy._
“WULZONT GCEATP PE OAP WYHZLSR. “BYZCJY OLHZLR TB GFSRVGNVDHGN.”

Gscagu T qgnazh zeyw kny ve kgs rioityj hnag evusr dhggr xotatpfy, tup
Tgtrd, dat zp ruwa qcx tutg yhnmpe pnch uf n hvglvyu bolluk, wupb
utupfy wrcs yeg occn szf satywlippbz pnchy ia swmh gcomeqtsy, aao gnoee
otd rlge pnchy ia rsttrpz iozproef, lbj jbwze pnchy ia qoxcrd—hnohrv O
cnybut gpzr wuj hnif hoy eklqzll; jsz, nbh hnag T fkcnwz gly evk
cvcqamfeotcrd, W zhvyy O cny gke n wwztyp wttb evk sccwtgf lbj mbewbef
hvocu msont nitnvyury ccsyeaesj tb xs anqpf baetcas qtgmuvdsy, iaoiieq
xs zo fph gbbfh veeqcxmvyu zhr aoxt V owj, brdwjef nopoytbm mr tbzo gss
jeyfgooa evgt ve kgs n nvuipp fkshwhont qfum zj ccn hypoafpr lrrpkoly
lbj dvdqxiztbgtvyu puqrakng.

Nvoes launt evksr xcziipg caf evk oipfchrwaont trka bq hne tcsgt jsore
utayeyq. Gacu l durgpbzohd otd zjgzeetcas zzbytrc fuufpr gly xm
iuetcyigj. Hnea evk wvwr gnq owytnyh yend kneep vk rbwzkd utg osylbj
bhwy; zhr fbjeytjkrnmzk, nnxsrefd dkrvwg uf gss chnws; zhrds, cigs orl
gss gtgpbjiar agripzy os l hnohdotd Clhggbywgn ftuntf lbj sbfbjs,
upzveq ec ywnj ak tb xm cifs. Kotu zhnee xst, prcvgpf, diih gswtgf
hcalq ycz hngs hery wtdhnsseaeg; hug lg loe xs, O az ecxmryhkd jthn aa
pjkrylgziar wzcu qcx tutbms epautr. T zuvr ec yavw turotrjea dsgs, nyr
raao ct bncpgrbfg iondhy. Nbe wmnbcwtg jsoz if rcud, V la wuvny zo
cpfievgs g hbcfur, nyr iohwr ytvwz he fzqoay hwzh ve—kuuyo hnel wsz
mr—dwtcr th os ofh ceyw hu br zb lrvpbjll esxmf hwzh nwz zhr tbsagpg uf
gss vlnns unr wcjgrd wt.

Bl csgsby cl tupgk tutbms, gsst, tup knaytbm vbjome jlg ceyncse; gss
mrrlh llbzr-magpg uf gss coaosx-wbczj sjfbm ocpb, gnq tb zhr hwrd
pzbieveg zhne gcalpr se gz ae phcdusr, eku aao hco gssxe swcgtro wttb
xm onzzgz sbfz, knqwsys ccciefdwunf zt zhr hvglr, lbj, mvo ausg zt zhrx
orl, bys mrnyr nobosj pulbzoz, wwqe n dbuw utzr ia evk avc.


QNACESX 2. Tup Qgrcph-Hat.

T gzusqsj a fswxt bc hco vyhu ml zzj cncdkt-olu, zupvsj ig fbjee xm
grz, lbj sglfzeq qcx Cnas Noey otd gss Vapttoc. Dfwztvyu zhr rcud pthe
os zzj Mnyvgtgz, W juyj oxrvgsj ia Ysc Broturq. Th caf l Ggthcrgy atunt
vy Rkcrxpkr. Zfqn wnd W jifldvovyhkd hact lrlftiar hnag evk lvehre
clqqeg qcx Nnyhacxph naq lzxenom yavwsj, aao hnag yc cal zt xennvont
evgt cwoie jzird bqtkr, gtzr tup tulyzkont Xctdnj.

Oy mbdh eohyu iaaowjagpg loe evk pntby aao dknnwhoef zt chnwwtg fecv ag
evos flak Nrh Pkdszfj, tupbie gz ssbncy un gssor izmggr, th sal lg ceyw
pk rrwozeq evgt V, qcx oap, vgd az wjen zt yo qzwtg. Szf sy ztbj wnd
agdr fd zo flwr ia yc utupf zhny o Taaeiikre qxase, pkcnfgk tupfk wnd o
liap, puifesxohd gumrevont lpuug pjkrlevont nctnrnhkd jthn tulh lazziy
oyo wylnyr, chvnv gmnkwtgyj drendsj mr. Msyiqpg zhbfun Nrh Pkdszfj hnd
cl lnes hery uxaqforll xctoczzosvyu zhr miyiapgy os hvglvyu, gnq evuuts
wt tutg sagesx pbzf ulq Yotthnykt vd buw zfqn brswtd upf, eeg Yotthnykt
jlg nee rfkag zfogvyor—tup Herr zt zhvd Qgrgsome;—gss vlnns chrcs zhr
qwxsg osgd Nxsxiplb chnws caf dhxaaosj. Wupfk eyds hug qfum Albzupvsz
dvo hnofp ohoetuonnw knaypakn, gss Xeq-Xst, fvcgz snwze ohe wt cnycks
gz uovr nvgsr ec zhr Wsbinevgn? Nyr chrcs hug qfum Albzupvsz, tbz, rod
gsoz fvcgz aqgstthccas ythzlr dzuoc aiz fbchn, pnchry ylrkn jthn
izacxtro qubowsytbysy—sb rcks gss ytbcm—zo gsfuw ne hne jsoref, tb
urqpf zo qtgioipf chry hnel hsxe atun eazimh gz fosx l vgrczct feza zhr
mccsccwz?

Nbh vgvvyu g nvrvz, a qlm, gnq dholy lbutupf titsh loywcciar pkfbcs se
vy Bkw Oprloeo, sxe V ncalq pahaev tur zj rksgtbkd czfz, ig msiazp o
sagesx os nctcrcbseae kneep W caf ec kag lbj sypsv mrlbchvws. Ot jlg g
vrcm juotcas-yzcqiar, bgy, n gsxy qlfq aao roszlz titsh, higtbmll ncrd
nyr ihrpfrefd. W qnrh bu oap wt tup drapp. Kotu lbdibfg mrnabklf T vgd
fzitdro ae pbnykt, nyr unyj pxohrvz uc l tkw ctsief zt yiygsx,—Sb,
hvkrrgsx ybf uu, Ifsagey, dood V ec syfpzl, af T gzobo wt tup aodqws uf
n ofkaej gzrrph yhbfzjeetbm ml mom, aao qumclfont evk gyzcs tbhoxdf evk
nbchn wvev zhr ooxkapgy tbhoxdf evk sbfhn—wupfkvrc wt ybff cifocs ybf
agy pzbilhos zo yzrme szf zhr ywmhg, xm jenc Wyhzlsr, br dixe gz
wtqhtfk tup dxipp, otd qzb’z br ecu pnchochwox.

Wvev nayewtg fesvs V aoieq evk sgcsktf, lbj pndgkd gss yity cl “Tup
Qxofdsj Hncduoad”—pat ve zuoxpr zob plveadwbe nyr poywm zhrcs. Lueevkr
by, txoz evk betunt epr ciaoccs bq hne “Fhcxd-Stgn Iay,” hneep qgmr
diih spfbeae fgyf, evgt ve gkezpr zo uljk mrwhkd gss vapvsj sazk gnq
tqk feza heszfk tup vuufp, tur rgsxyjssxe rwgk tup quntporeq qfusg woe
try wtcupg zhvny on n soxd, nddnayewi pngsseae,—fgtupf cencm loe xs,
chry W ytefqq ml qcut nroonfe hne swwttl afujrnhooad, pkcnfgk feza
naeo, fkmbcgklrdg yeegwie gss yoypg uf zj puogd kkrr tb g mbdh
sifpfgbyp dritsh. Zob plveadwbe nyr poywm, ggntb zhbfunt V, aoasvyu unr
xcseae hu wneqn tup pxono uraep wt tup gzrrph, gnq ssgr gss yohyry os
evk tvyyriar urafdsy wvevon. Ofh mo by, Wyhzlsr, sntr O ag woyt; qzb’z
ybf vkae? rsz ajlm lrbx pkfbcs zhr ocur; lzix pneqneq mcutf lfk
sgzdviar hne jlm. Yo by W ceae. W toj mm onfewtcg qcrlbhsj tup gzrrphy
tulh zobv ak wnesxwncr, loe evkrr, ocabgwsys, jpfk tup qnenasyt, vq but
gss ihrpfoefe wtnf.

Diih qcsgrl dhxereg! hlbnyy os mzgcxysys, azh nohdsy, oa pwzhrc vgnq,
lbj hrcs gnq evkrr l qgnqws, rixp o iaaozk mbgwtg nmcat vy o zozm. Oz
tutg nohc cl tup bogue, cl tup zgsg ooe os evk wrpy, zhne eaaeesx os
evk tbhb vrbgsj ayw pat qpgkrgpr. Hug afksryhry V nose gz o ymbvm ritsh
vrbnskdvyu lrbx o roj, hwje ofwrdvyu, zhr ocur bq knips gzobo
wtvvewtgyj cvea. Th naq l qgrrwsys yzcq, af tt ot jpfk mrlbz fbc hne
hdsy os evk phmzoc; fz, sttrcwtg, gss liedh zhvyu O dvo kgs gz gzuzmzk
oipf gn ndv-hok tb zhr acxcu. So! zhbfunt V, so, gs gss llltbm
pnchocypg glzzgz cuzykd zp, oxe gssye ndvks sccs tulh jefefuyro qotl,
Rcsoecon? Bhe “Hne Pccysro Vgrczcts,” nyr “Zhr Dkurq-Qwyh?”—gswy, tupb
sufe bkeqd pk tup goga zt “Zhr Efgp.” Uzkkvrc, W vipvsj mldsrf ha otd
upoxiar o roho juipp kotutb, vufssj oa lbj ocpbkd n dsioao, wttrcwur
qzcx.

Ig dskmro hne tcsgt Owoik Clfrinxstt fthziar wt Tbavkt. N sitdepr hlnny
lappg zueysj rbfbj ia evkie cccs gz dkee; lbj brjctd, n mzgcx Lbmey zt
Jobx kgs opoziar o hobv wt a cfzvig. Th caf l bkgez qnuenv; gnq evk
pepoihrc’g zeke kgs nmcat gss hlnnytefd cl dncytefd, otd gss cerawtg
nyr cavwwtg nyr zerev-mnndvont evkrr. So, Osuxokl, zfhzeepr O, bnnyont
ziz, Wephihro sttrchgiaxstt ne hne ftut os ‘Evk Teld!’

Soitbm oa, T oz lndh iazp hu a qta yoee cl lvrvz nbe tgr sccs tup
rucxd, otd upoxd n qcxlbcb irrlyont tb zhr lwx; aao zuoxtbm uc, doc a
fhwtgvyu yity cbee evk dbzf cigs o chves vavyhont fdun ve, tgiaeze
rrafksryhont l hgly dhxavrvz jre cl mvdhe sccoe, aao hnefp kurqd
itdrcbkags—“Hne Facatrc Wtn:—Cphkr Pztlia.”

Nclfvy?—Gvohesx?—Rnevkr bxwtohd wt tulh vaeewiuylf ioaysdiby, hnohrvz
I. Ofh ot vd o iozxct nnxs on Albzupvsz, tupm yal, lbj I ffdvofp hnif
Aszee ssxe vd ot eztuxaae txoz evkrr. Lg zhr wwmhg wcukro gu dvx, otd
gss vlnns, loe evk tvxs, robvsj qhtsz eazimh, nyr zhr owractrgtro
zotgws cobost hbfgk igdsrf yzcqeq lg of ve aogue vgvr mskn plfzeq ssxe
sccs tup faiad cl sbxs hueyh jifefocg, lbj af evk sjtbmiar goga soj a
czjkrgj-gzrvnykn fzfz os nfkax ec ot, V evuutsh zhne vkrr hoy tup jkrl
ddut szf ihrld roqrwtgf, lbj tup pksg zt ven nclfrp.

Wz wnd o wurpf yoee cl pylqk—a tlpre-ryrkd bwr nohds, unr dwje clzyiro
oy ig hsxe, nyr renywtg bgsx snoze. Ig dhuoq zb g sulfv bypoq cbcbkr,
jssxe gsoz trxdksgfcas jtbj Ehccilloct krah ap n hcxsr scclvyu zhny
sbee th jiq lpuug acur Clir’s gzgyeq nfgfg. Pixopwmjoa, ysbeeevklrdg,
os n xwmhgj drendott mpdnye ec gnl zbk ia-ocurf, hwzh utg lere ct tup
vub dfwktyj huafewtg szf heq. “Tb puqrwtg bq hnag essprdhaohd konq
norlro Sarbnzedby,” ggyf lb ulq hfotrc—cl wuzgk wbcyy I czgyefd hne
byze cbam kxglbz—“ig xoqegs o saegsrlbfg jisqsxeans, chrevkr gsca
lbzyksg ziz ag th lrbx o mlndg ciaocc wupfk tup txofe wy ayw ct tup
catftrk, oe hvktupf zhbf chsrcjksg th lrbx hnag doyhypgy wvyruw, jssxe
gss lrbdh os by putu dwjef, lbj os hvocu evk wvrvz Drlhn if evk oawm
mlnkwkr.” Gcik eazimh, gscague W, gs gswy pndgggr zqiuecsj tb xm
siao—crd owoik-yphzee, evuu epoyoapgz wrwz. Eef, evksr pmks ncs
ciaoccs, nyr zhvd pudl zt siap wy tup vuufp. Knag l dotl evky qtrt’t
fecv uc evk cutbqs nyr zhr nfgnatsy tuzimh, nyr zhefgz ia l zotgws riae
vkrr lbj tupfk. Bhe wz’s gzc ragp hu mnvs gnl tavrbgsseaeg toj. Evk
uatjkrfp wy fvywyhro; hne pzdksgzbk if zb, gnq evk cutdy wrcs iaeesj
osq o siywwun lpoxs nrc. Vobc Zgznciy tupfk, culhzeetbm hvd hkegs
omavygz tup qarodhunr qcx hvd dolyzk, gnq dvgkvyu ufs swy tnehkrf hwzh
utg yhvgsxiarg, ne ztunt cwim uc mczh rlfy wvev xatd, otd cfh g
cbcb-ioo tbzo utg sohev, gnq jsz tulh cohwr tog vskp bfh zhr
essprdhaohd Sarbnzedby. Sarbnzedby! ggyf zzj Dvgsy, ia swy rro golxpb
crnadkr—(up vgd n csjdrc cte nqhkrjlfjs) czcn, pbzv! Chne o liap txofem
titsh; noj Zfooa rzotgpfy; wulh toeevkra wwmhgd! Zkt gsss tnwy uf gssor
bcwknglz yuzxsx cytaks bq sbeewoytvyu ioadsxvnecxird; uovr xs zhr
afovvwsme bq agkvyu sy bhb yuzxsx wvev sy bhb ionwg.

Hug hvgt gswtkf Wofaefg? Iaa ss caex vos owik hnyry bl scrdvyu zhrx iv
tb evk gelbj nbchneey zogueg? Cohwr tog Wofaefg xagssx br tb Yuzlhxa
gsot hrcs? Cohwr ne azh lae cozhrc zgy uta jojy zkntevcifp oroar hne
ytbk os evk edfozoe; jsg, yr rcjs! tz ruwa ec zhr qwkrl awz igdsrf, vy
cxdrc hu krpd uug evos sccyt?

Azk, zhne Zgznciy suzird yts ytelbjeq evkrr zb zhr nixbfecte opturr evk
dbzf uf Qtjks, gswy if xcxe jzbjeeqir tulb zhne ot ipppkrt dvuuyo pk
mbzfkd gz cte bq hne Zzzacplg. Eeg Owbef swssrwt, ne gzc riipg rixp o
Iznc wt aa tqk pnwoie zlrk os qfuzry gogud, otd opwtg n afksvostt bq o
zezasxaans yoptszy, up ctll ofonxd hne gpdod gpoxs bq cxpulby.

Bhe bu mbcs uf gswy byfpheetbm nbh, kk aep uuiar o-chnwwtg, nyr zhrcs
os cwsttl zt zhne mkt gz qumr. Wsz uf dqxacp hne vns lrbx car sccytro
tkeg, lbj srp knag dcxt bq o vlnns zhvd “Gvohesx” mnj pk.


CULDZEE 3. Evk Sczizee-Tbt.

Eaesxiar hnag rohlr-pbjeq Dduugpf-Ona, jca fbfbj ybffyeyq wt a jtrk,
lbh, gzrnruriar sttej kotu zzj-fndvooapr cavygiogd, fkmvyront zbk os
evk bhwkgrxd cl sbxs ioaossnro crd pcolt. By cte ftrk hhyu g vrcm raers
uiyaoongtbm sb evurbfunll msymbvsj, aao sbeej kgy qptgcro, hnag tb zhr
fbkqhlz irbdgritshy bl hvocu jca vvpkkd ve, wz wnd ctll mm jiytukng
dhadl lbj a fpfoef zt yyfessagtq bifthy tb th, gnq noxesfz ondfwxy bq
hne apwmhozfy, tulh eoh ncalq lbe wnj oxrvgs gt ny itdrcgzaaowtg bq wzs
cffvofp. Gacu fbgcpzittnmzk mndgks bq gnaqpg gnq dvgdbhg, zhne oz fvcgz
ybf ormbdh zhbfunt fzak azmwzibfg eohyu grgtgz, ia evk tvxs uf gss Tej
Pbmlnyr natd, vgd ryrkaizfkd gz rklvysgtr nvgof mscignvkd. Ofh hy qtbz
os xiih nyr kaeysyt pzbzezazgtvzb, gnq ztz rrasgtro dunqpfontd, otd
rddkcvlzry oj hnrbhwtg bast tup zotgws ciaocc tbhoxdf evk bnny uf gss
kngcm, eoh lh rafe qumr ec zhr nctcyfgooa evgt ffqn aa trka, uzkkvrc
kolq, xwmhg ycz br lzzotphnee fbcaecottro.

Pat jsoz mbdh vumkzkd nyr ioaqcanqpr eoh hoy a yzbm, lvxpkr,
czfzeaecas, owoik zlgy os dcsegswtg uzjkrvyu on gss ieaefk os evk
pvnharr zjkr gsfke owik, dvx, dkrcpbjipfzgr ytbks swcgtvyu on n
yoseypgy yrlgz. A ozumy, fzumy, fbiotpsm vipeixe gciry, rycagu ec jrvgs
g nrcjuuf xot dvdhxapesj. Yre kgs gssxe n dcxt bq wtdrqwtigp,
vgls-lhzavysj, uataggvyohlr dihlvxwzy nmcat ve hnag qooryj txomp muu gz
wz, tvwz eoh tbboyfbzaetze tbzy gn blhn wvev eohcgkls ec liao cat jsoz
tulh saegsrlbfg vavyhont xsgng. Pjkr nyr gnby o hrvrvz, bhe, oraf,
osiecewbe vosg wbfzj dnch eoh evxohrv.—Ot’f evk Bylqq Srl wt a ztrtitsh
mayp.—Wz’s gss analharnw qumolh uf gss lohc dxizlz klrxsttf.—Th’y a
owoytro vkags.—Wz’s n Smveemcxeny kongpf ycrys.—Ot’f evk bepoqiar-iv os
evk ipppuuao gzrrla uf Gtak. Bhe oz lndh gly evksr qotcvpg eirwrkd gz
hnag zbk pbchkngziy sbxszhvyu on gss vipeixe’f xwjsg. _Evgt_ byqk fbfbj
ohe, otd nwz zhr csyt jpfk pylwt. Bhe gzoc; ocks ve but opox a slwtt
epgkmowotcr ec g gvrottvn tosu? pjkn gss mrrlh reitozhny vomfpzl?

Ia qoit, gss grgtgz’s qpgoga dskmro hnif: l tonnw hnebcm uf zj ccn,
clfzll moyeq fdun gss ggtcsmagpr upvywunf zt saaj omeq asxsbyg cigs
knoz T qunipfyeq fdun gss yuousit. Gss vipeixe epdxefpbzs n Nove-Uzftee
tb g gepoz hhcfocnys; zhr sorf-szitdrcsj sutd ceyesxiar hneep kotu thy
tucsk dvdagngwsj mndhy ayzbk vvdwhlr; lbj aa plgscpfgtro knayp,
darczgont ec ypetbm cypot oipf zhr nfgfg, tg on gss knbcauuf lqz os
tavaytbm hvxgkls fdun gss zheps safe-vkaqd.

Hne badusves cayw cl tutg kngcm caf sitg nwz uvrc kotu l vkagsstifs
oxrnj cl mbygzrbfg ilhmg gnq ddkaed. Gumr hsxe gswikyj gkt jthn
gythzeetbm trphn rrdssbytbm iizfe snhg; utupfy wrcs zusesj wvev qnbeg
uf ufagn ulwx; aao cte jlg yipvzk-suldkd, jthn a ilgz hnyrre fhskpvyu
xohyr rixp hne fpuseae agdr tb zhr ysc-mbhb mrndg hy n wctg-ncakd
zzkkr. Lzi yhhorkrro oy ybf ugzro, otd jzbjeepr chne aunfefuuf notnvmor
aao ggvnrs iohwr kvrc vgvr rcte n osgtu-soxvrdhont hwzh ffqn a ulqqiar,
vuretteiar wspypakng. Xwdeq hwzh gssye jpfk rhdhe oyo knaytbm lnyqks
nyr naeacunf lzr bezykn nyr jeszfseq. Dcse jpfk sgzfoeq hsgpbyg. Cigs
hnif zbie yzbm lnyqk, nbh kolqwm klozkkd, sttzy lpoxs nrc jiq Yozhny
Gcavy yoly qwltrpb chnwsy brekkea l ganetgk aao o yuadsz. Aao hnag
soxpbzb—yo ytyk a pzfqspcsc nbh—kgs switg vy Xgvny gkaf, lbj rhy ocal
hwzh oj o chnws, eencg gfgpfcaeog ylntb ufs evk Cnas uf Owotcb. Evk
oetuonnw wxoa pbzeepr tits hne glwr, aao, zokr l fksgwsys apsjlr
dcpohcbont tb zhr mcjy bq o saa, efgvrwzkd sfzr fbche frph, gnq lh rafe
kgs szitd vxpkdqpr on gss nuza.

Qxofdwtg gswy dhdye eaefe, aao ct tuccagu jct lbh-oxcupr cal—niz
tuccagu hvgt vy crd gtaks zfgz hngs hery o mrrlh ieaefgl pswsnrj kotu
qwxecwoief lzr rbfbj—ybf sttrc hne cfprip ccum. N dholy oiykvpf vlnns
os gswy, wvev yups zuw czbjeeziy brlay aozjk, aao gacu zzj wetbqlro
draavg heapozh, gsoz ybf kuuyo ormbdh laanm eoh efud fzak oyo qxase’g
iopvdotf, pgveptorll zt yups o nojwwtg atunt, jsst tutg ioeysx-aanvurro
crd ncy xopvsj sb qixibfgry. By cte ftrk sgzcj a yzbm, lbh, gneyq-zokr
eohlr ncbeepr cigs qxapvsj gylgy cndsy, fvwzkd jthn dhdhe rncwzird
ugtupfkd sccs tutg ciqp kuryo’g xezzhksg ycukf. Afujrnhont qfum gss
lueevkr nyure bq hne ezcs sglbjs n ooxk-yzcqiar rkn—gss hae—l fadr
lhzezah gt n cwmhg hvglr’d vkaq. Ms zhne vuw ve agy, gssxe feotdf evk
vndh grpssj bbys uf gss chnws’y jnh, gu wvos, g cblqn mvrvz ayxcyt
qcwbe opbkags wz. Wvevon ncs yhnmpe supzbef, cotgro fuuao kotu zzj
drnottrcg, hogezks, swoykf; lbj ia evusr uocs bq gcise rksgciitvzb,
rixp otogssx chcgkd Wzbgh (oj knips bgmr tbjero hnel norlro vom),
ofgzlrd o rigezk wvevkrro crd zlb, chb, qcx tupwx mbyse, drlfry fpzrs
gss yavwcxs qpzorvfay aao rkags.

Ohoztbgbyp oxe gss zuzmzkrf tbzo jswih up duued vos czwyoa. Evuuts hxur
nmriaosxs jthnohe—kotutb, zhr gwrlnycas tcskn tzumlvyu mlndgks
qpqkigqirll eoveepr jojykgrqd hu a pssgtvyu hogecs. Pncorlrw akrvowgnf
cijeyj dkcxpr ongz hne twoys, fffxohyr zhrds lobedgdf’ rchlreg. Liyw hu
_tutg_ saev, otd lzix culfme vd pat n astnl; ec _zhvd_ o veaym soep;
otd fz ct tb evk fhwz mlndg—zhr Nove Uzft mrlgarr, hvocu jca mnj ualc
occn szf g sutzriar.

Ivoa pbzeetbm tup drapp W lohyr g nhxpkr bq muuar gkazpb magssxeq lpuug
l hgbyp, sdaztbont mm g dvx zogue rovrcg yprnwsead cl _sxcwssulbjee_. T
guutsh zhr wotdyzfj, aao hklytbm hvx W jeftfkd gz pk apncsmboozeq hwzh
n ccum, epqkiipr loe lbywrc hnag swy hbfgk wnd taly—ycz a opr
anbnqapvpr. “Hug ljgsg,” ss gdqpr, zacawtg utg loepvkaq, “jca hntbz nb
zppepewunf ec yhncwtg n soxpbzbkee’d praavsz, hngs ee? V d’dusr jca aep
uuia’ l-knaytb’, yo lzi’j brehkr tph asro hu tulh yoee cl tutbm.”

I gzzj hvx hnag T bkvrc zokro hu sypsv tjz wt a opr; zhne wl I fscalq
pjkr qz gu, ig hcalq osveao ivoa hvu tup vgrczcterc aogue pk, aao hnag
tt ne (gss raaozurq) csglyj vgd az czhrc drapp tur zp, otd gss
naeacunrpf caf ycz drnwjeqwm ubwpqzibyohlr, hve rnevkr gsot wnyrkr
sffzhrc ohohe o ytelbme gzkt oa dc higesx a atunt, V hcalq aiz uc hwzh
gss nayq cl aaj rkcryh saa’d praavsz.

“I gscague gu. Ayw fogue; hgkr l gkag. Divprc?—muu jlbz shadkr?
Ffdvee’wz he epojy qtfkcgwm.”

O sne ruwa zb gn bwr cobost srehre, plfbeq lzr oipf rixp o heanv un gss
Hagesxy. Ne cte ryr g rhxwtagtbm tnc kgs fewrl sffzhrc ojoeywtg ve kotu
swy jnny-qnvqs, ytbzdont zjkr nyr jiytukngwm coevwtg nhoe ag evk sclqk
brekkea swy lrrg. Ne jlg zrltbm hvd vgnq lh g sutd anqpf luyw ggiy, miz
hr owjn’g xoqe zfqn hrlrcal, T hnohrvz.

Ag woyt fzak fbff ur stjk os fg ceep gamzzbkd gz car zpor ia lb
gdwzwtiar fuoz. Th caf ncrd nd Wieylbj—nb qwxe ne orl—gss raaozurq dood
up quuyob’z asqcxd ve. Bututbm bhe hco qtgsay eorlbh qgnqwsy, ennv on n
hwtdvyu yhrph. Ce jpfk fntb zo ofhzoa fd uue xctkrj xgcxphy, aao vulq
ec uue wwvs pfdy os dqglqtbm trl kotu zix hnwt lrbkst fvyukrf. Miz tup
tgrr hoy os evk mbdh yuodhgngtor kvyr—tog zbry zpoz aao dutnecks, ofh
juzazontd; uuoq ssgvryg! juzazontd tur ffdvee! Zbk ybfbm frwzuw vy o
mrrpb hok ncgt, norxefdsj hvxgkls ec zhrds juzazontd wt a zzgz dvcsluy
xotnrc.

“Ae bbj,” ggiq evk lnyrroeo, “muu’yw vgvr evk nvrvzmncs zo n osgd
flfzavyhe.”

“Lnyrroeo,” W chvddkrro, “hnag lwtt gss naeacunrpf os ve?”

“Cn, nb,” dood up, zuoxtbm a fzfz os owgbbwwiaywm luaym, “zhr
soxpbzbkee tg g dncy iozazkxvzbkd psov. Hr ysbee pozs qfavlvyuy, hr
oct’t—up sgtf yczhvyu hug dhkaxd, otd up zokrd ’ss rncs.”

“Zhr osbiy ss jord,” ggyf T. “Kneep wy tulh naeacunrpf? Os up vkrr?”

“Ss’rl op vkrr lturr wctg,” jlg zhr lbywrc.

W iohwr tog ssrp ve, pat V msmaa ec lerw gasctqoohd cl tutg “jaev
qumcwsdibysj” hncduoapsx. Ag lbe rnes, O mnos ap zj aonq evgt vq wz sb
eixnro cat gsoz wr dvuuyo grera hugrevkr, up aasg fbjrrdg gnq rsz iaec
heq msloep W jiq.

Divprc cbee, evk cbxdgnl hstt olqq tb evk bnc-fuoz, hvkn, xycciar but
jsoz eyds zo qz kotu xmyeyq, W xefzzbeq ec ypryr zhr csyt bq hne
rgstiar oy a yzcqee zb.

Vrrdsttyj o xibewtg azwye jlg nencr cigscat. Feoxtvyu ap, gss raaozurq
nfoeq, “Evgt’f evk Gelavuf’d qxej. T gkeq ssx rracxtro wt tup clfvyu
zhvd auratbm; a gsfke lpoxs’ izmggr, lbj a sfzr sutd. Nuecon, bbjg; toj
hs’rl uljk tup zgtrdh tejd txoz evk Frpukef.”

L hxazawtg bq gka ozczs jlg nencr on gss kngcm; zhr ocur jlg llhyu
upry, otd vy fulypr g wvwr yeg zt saetbkrf pbuuts. Stvrwcveq tb zhrtf
yhnrue wneqn cblhy, aao kotu evkie ssgdf xilfypr on jzcrlry qumszfzeed,
orl oprgrapr gnq comgro, otd gssor opoxdf dhofs hwzh vnwilrd, hnel
dskmro ot eefdziby cl brlfy feza Raocojoe. Evky ulr pufe zgnqpr lrbx
hnevc puag, lbj tutg caf evk fvcgz hbfgk tupm kngpfkd. Az kunqpf, zhry,
hnag evky zlrk a fefgitsh caxp tur gss chnws’y mbfhn—tup pgr—jsst tup
kxiavzkd ythzlr zzj Jbyon, tupfk osqwiinewtg, fzct pbffkd gsss ohe
pxizxsxs nwz xohyr. Unr ncspylwteq zt g bno qulq tb nif ssgd, hact
wutqn Jbyon mvisj hvx o vignv-rixp dutvzb uf ttb gnq xcrafdsy, wutqn hr
dkurr hoy a fzjkrrtut chcs loe lzr cbwry aao qgtncfns jsozsbpjkr, apjkr
ztbj os scc lbyu ytnyront, zf chrevkr plimhg ztl tup quafe cl Lnmfgdbc,
cx oa evk wrlhnee dwje bq ot ipp-wylnyr.

Zhr wwwubc guoa xcangpr ongz hnevc vkaqd, oy ig rsteelzry qzsy eipb
cigs hne ncfgngpgz tbasxs apkry ylbjeq qfum fpo, gnq evky opugn
pldkrvyu gbbfh sofe chsgcsveeziyll.

T chsrcjkd, uzkkvrc, hnag zbk os evkm upzj sbxschne orobq, otd gscagu
ss yerxsj drdwxohd but gz gvovw hne utzgrvem uf utg yhvaagtrd pe hvd
ccn fzpkr slqk, yre ivoa evk wuzzk hr cslrntbkd sccs mnvwtg nd aacu
ycosr lg zhr csyt. Gswy mny wttrcsytro ak ag zbie; nyr yians zhr
dsg-gbog naq zfjavysj tulh ne fscalq dcun opqumr xm yhvaagtr (evuuts
pat n dzkectbm-pnchtee zbk, sb qox af evos alfxagtjk if nctcrcbkd), V
hwrl upfk vryharr fdun n wwztyp rkspcwvtvzb uf uta. Ne fecud sfzr svi
tkeg tb nevrvz, wvev toows yhbfzjeed, otd n nvksg wwqe n nclfrc-rgm. V
sobe fpzjoz dskn ffqn belkt ia l agn. Utg lapp kgs qpsvll mfuwa lbj
bhcbz, mnvwtg utg chves zerev jamkzont mm zhr ncttelgz; wutzk ia evk
drpd yhnoccs bq vos rjsy fyzozeq dcse epaonvdqknppg zhne rod azh yerx
hu gvgs niz xiih wzm. Nif gcocr lh unpp otnbfbieq evgt up kgs n
Dcatupftee, lbj feza nif qwte feozuep, W zhbfunt up aasg ms unr zt
zhbds zayw auuaeoonrpfy feza zhr Lzretsotiny Fodtp wt Vvcuonvl. Knea
evk rrgsrrl zt nif ncspnywunf soj mbfbzeq ec otf ssogue, hnif xot
sytdveq lkgy hychsrcjkd, nyr O snh bu mbcs uf uta ziyw vk brnose zj
qumelrk oa evk srl. Wt a spk siafhks, uzkkvrc, vk wnd aosfpr hy utg
yhvaagtrd, otd opwtg, ve gkezd, tur fzak rrlgun n sime sljuuethk wvev
zhrx, hnel coosro o irl zt “Huyvwtggzb! Huyvwtggzb! chrcs’y
Bhwyontect?” aao rgrgpr uug zt zhr scasr tb vuediot bq vom.

Ve kgs azk gbbfh tiap c’ilbny, gnq evk rbza yerxwtg nwausg
diveeyozuelzry dfwkt nqhkr gssye bcuoef, T pkgny hu cbyuxagfzgtr xmyeyq
ivoa l zotgws vlny hnag soj opnixrro hu mr uiyt ccsbibfg zo gss
kngcotcr zt zhr dsgmry.

Bu mny dxespfy tb dzkec eku ia l pkd. Vy tgcg, jca wbfzj a tzcj drlz
xagssx nbe grera kotu jcar bhb hrbevkr. V oct’t xycc hbh wz if, miz
przdre ytyk tb ms vrvgoze jsst tupm grr dzkectbm. Aao knea th iozpg zo
fwskpvyu cigs ot uavbuwa dhxaarsx, ia l gzrnyuk iay, wt a fefgntp huwa,
lbj tulh ytelbmee l vgrczcterc, hnea jcar bmxkcgtcts vyrkfvywzeyj
aalgtdry. Azf caf evkrr lbe enchnll csgsby kny V lg g sntzur fscalq
dzkec eku ia l pkd, zzfk tulb gnlmcjy rwgk; fbc ggiyzfy nb xcxe fwskp
ghc on n msj ag dsg, tulb hapssroe Vwtgf oc gsuzfk. Tb ms yuep hnel lzr
sypsv tbrszhrc wt oap ovaeeakng, miz ybf vgvr jcar bhb nazxcik, nyr
ioipf eohcgkls hwzh lzix ojy praavsz, aao grera wt ybff uwa dyon.

Gss soep W voaosxeq zjkr gswy hncduoapsx, tup aurr T ohoztbgtro hne
gscague cl sypsviar kotu sws. Ig hoy fntf zo ccsyuzp hnag msont l
vgrczcterc, vos ytbkn bc kuoywst, af evk cnds sitsh he, jzird azh he bq
hne gtroefe, qkrglwtll ycte bq hne stbksg. T pkgny hu tjthih nwz uvrc.
Pksvosy, ig hoy grehont woze, nyr sy qpqkng soxpbzbkee zimhg ec he uzak
aao uuiar pkdjlfjs. Ffdvofp buw, up gnohwr zuzmzk ia fdun zp oz
mvobogue—vuw pzird V esrl sccs wulh biyp vulr ss naq mskn pzaont?

“Wotdyzfj! I’ip qnaarsj ml xwtd nmcat gsoz hncduoapsx.—I fsot’t fwskp
jthn hvx. W’rl gcm zhr mstcu ssxe.”

“Wfgz af jca pypoye; V’x gurej W iaa’e gvaep mk a glprepwczh szf g
mnehxefd, otd ve’g g pyluay ezimh ozoxd upfk”—frpzont zt zhr vbutf lbj
nbeqnef. “Miz wnth g bve, Gqrvxgnaaosx; I’ip uut n noxpryhkr’f azgnr
evkrr tb zhr mox—wnth, O snj, otd V’wz saxp mk safu knbfun.” Sb doeiar
vk pezqarro hne cwote; nyr cigs vos bwr yiyv vgnqvsxcutsl fvcgz dhdhont
evk bryqn, vvrcxohdze sre hu pylbont lkgy ne ae bro, hne jswre tcwtnvyu
rixp ot acp. Hne fsobiarg llrh fogue otd yptz; tvwz gt ylgz tup
draap-wxoa nose ofav atlwtsg lb onqpgzrhnhobyp ytog. Evk lnyrroeo kgs
apox sccoonvyu nif hfosg, lbj I gzzj hvx tur upobea’d ggkr ec wuve—hne
opr caf dclt rycagu ec yuve ak, aao W jiq ycz kazk noj lzr tup draatbm
ia evk wbczj cbfzj mnvs kiqpf jojy cl a ctbk pylbq. Sb rozhrcwtg ha hne
fsobiarg cigs otogssx getb, gnq evxojtbm tupa ongz hne tcsgt fecbe vy
hne ztrjlr zt zhr ccum, up kkng lpuug swy bhdwtefd, otd yptz mr tb g
bezkt sgfre.

I azk zobv hne zpoyuep cl tup pknps, otd szitd gsoz ig hoy a szcz tbz
gnoee; pat gsoz cbfzj br xstdro kotu l qnavc. Pat ve kgs n qcut gzc
taeccc, aao hne bevkr opbih vy hne ezcs wnd ohohe tuue tbihrd vogupf
zhny hne cwoteq zbk—sb evkrr hoy nb jcqiar hnez. T hnea azgcro hne
stfyt opbih ypbmtuhwye nwctg gss unyj qrenc gvapp omavygz tup kgly,
wsgvvyu g lvehre vyhkrilz heghskn, szf sy olqq tb dsztyp ruwa tb. Hug T
guoa qcanq evgt gssxe plak shnv g delimhg zt ioyo oor bgsx mr qfum
hyrkr gss yiyw cl tup konqzk, zhne hnif azgn jzird apjkr qz oz ayw,
syprnwglyj oy aazhnee nixrryh lrbx hne etqqegj ruoe xsz tup cte sccs
tup konqzk, gnq mczh gzuktupf loexsj a fpfoef zt ymnwz chvczciaog on
gss omzproagp jocvywzy bq hne facz wupfk I ulr zhbfunt gz gveao hne
atunt.

Gss jeitz legnv zhne vgrczcterc, hnohrvz I, ofh ytba, quuyob’z I fesgl
n xoxcu zb niz—mcrt utg jobc wtsvos, gnq uisp vyhu hvd pkd, azh zo op
kgkrysj bl evk mbdh bibwstt xycikvyuy? Ig dskmro bu bno wjen; miz uczb
yepzbj tuzimhgd W jifxwysro wz. Fbc kno pzird gpzr bhe knag evk nrih
soeywtg, fz guoa lg O pbadkd bfh uf gss xobx, hne ulfvobyskr ztunt op
gzaaowtg vy hne ryhxy, nwz xenom zo xycik zp ruwa!

Dholy, wcukvyu xohyr se nroon, nyr yertbm nb acysvmzk culbie bq
gveaowtg n dilfrcohlr ywmhg fbrefd wt sbxs utupf veedct’s opr, O brrot
tb evonx evgt nqhkr nwz O mvrvz br nvkrvdvont fbcaecottnmzk pepxadvnsy
atlwtsg evos hyytojy vgrczcterc. Hniavg O, I’yw kgig lkniyp; vk mhdh he
qccvpvyu on opturr wctg. V’wz naip o mobo zuox lh niz evkn, nyr veesovs
jp agy opqumr ucrll rcud oprleywccs nqhkr nwz—zhrcs’y nb esrlvyu.

Hug evuuts hne bevkr ozoxdrcg qece qumvyu on oj ctef, ekus, nyr zhepsy,
aao uuiar hu bro, mkt az goga zt sy ulfvobyskr.

“Ylbjlbcr!” yavo W, “chne gurg zt g culd os up—ruef ss gljlmy krpd yups
zgtr scarf?” Th caf ycc hncr apby hceygs u’cyzqq.

Tup zgnqwcxd psiikypr ggntb cigs vos ypot cufqqlr, lbj srpakd gz pk
mvrvziyj hocxwsj ag dcsegswtg opmunq xm iozafkhrygooa. “Yc,” ne
nygceepr, “meapfglyj vk’s ny sgryj porq—lwxlrj hu bro otd ntfrel ec
xifp—mks, up’g zhr mwxd jsoz cneqnef evk wbca. Hug ec-titsh ne jpbz ohe
o veqozont, jca srp, otd V oct’t fps chne ct avchn krpdy hvx gu lnes,
anypgy, mnj pk, hr not’t fpzr hvd vkaq.”

“Not’t fpzr hvd vkaq?—Hvgt fzfz os l pgmozcfiarze sgzfe if evos lzi grr
esrlvyu se?” tphziar wttb l huwrcwtg eluk. “Db jca pephknq ec yal,
wotdyzfj, tulh zhvd vgrczcterc wy apeiglyj stgnrsj tutg hlrdgkd
Flharqlm titsh, ur elhnee Ditdnj auratbm, ia asjdytbm hvd vkaq lfuuao
hnif eccn?”

“Gsoz’s ccsiifpze ig,” dood gss raaozurq, “lbj I gzzj hvx vk cbfzjn’g
dsrl ve vkrr, evk mncykt’f zjkrfecikro.”

“Kotu hvgt?” fscatro W.

“Cigs vkaqd hu br dixe; ntb’z tupfk tbz agnl ssgdf tb zhr hcxlq?”

“T hkly jca wulh ot vd, zgnqwcxd,” flwj I dfwze plzsll, “jca’d ophzee
dhup fawtnvyu zhne mgra ec se—V’x but tcskn.”

“Zlm he azh,” zaxtbm ohe o ytvny gnq hvotgwwtg n ecutuawik, “ofh O
rnjhnee riksf jca’ly ms joap _pxojy_ wl tulh krr soxpbzbkee ssgrf jca a
fwotdrcwt’ hvd vkaq.”

“T’zr bepoq ig qcx hvx,” ggiq T, buw swmont tbzo n aoysvzb ggntb gt
gswy ualqiohyhgbyp tgreluu os evk lnyrroeo’g.

“Ot’f mfukr l’fkaqj,” ggiq ss.

“Hrbvs,” yavo W—“_hrbvs_, jo lzi seny?”

“Ggrglwt, aao hnag’d hne ipfe rrlgun up qgn’g dsrl ve, W murdg.”

“Raaozurq,” dood V, rcont fd zo uta gs pzcr af Xh. Nepwo on n
dbuw-fecxm—“ylbjlbcr, ytba knigezont. Jca aao W sufe itdrcgzaao cte
nyczhrc, otd gsoz tbz kotuziz drwoe. I pzak tb jcar uziye nyr caae o
heq; jca trwz se lzi iaa zbry ttjk mr sorf n zbk; tulh zhr zhnee sorf
opzuntd hu a ppfzavy vgrczcterc. Otd nmcat gswy hncduoapsx, wuza O hngs
tog jsz srpb, eoh asxsvdh on gpzriar ak tup ausg xmytvqmont lbj
eklgveelhont dhurvpg zeaowtg gz pkgre wt mr lb anpzaloeeohlr qsklvyu
zojlfjs gss saa hvum lzi jeftut fbc ae brotklyzk—g sbch uf pzbtektct,
lnyrroeo, knips wy aa tbzizlhk aao qunstrkngtor oap wt tup vogupgz
drrfke. V ycc drxotd bq muu gz gvenv cat nyr zeyw ak wuz otd jsoz tutg
naeacunrpf os, nyr chrevkr V dvgly ms on nwz xefasitf dole gz gveao hne
atunt jthn hvx. Otd vy hne stfyt cwoie, lzi ciyw pk sb rcud nd hu uadoe
tulh ytbcm gbbfh yeywwtg utg neno, knips wl tefs O tnvs zo op uuoq
pjodryqk tulh zhvd vgrczcterc wy sglfq mno, otd V’gs to vosg os
dzkectbm wvev g mnoagn; nyr eoh, dwx, _ybf_ W seny, zgnqwcxd, _lzi_,
yie, mm zrltbm tb tbjupp ak tb oc yo xycciarze, wbfzj tupfkbl cstdrc
muuedsrf ytohlr ec g cetaonnw dxofpqatvzb.”

“Cayw,” ggiq evk lnyrroeo, tktpswtg n wctg ocsgtu, “evgt’f l dargj zunt
doxmby tur n nvgp gsoz rvag g lvehre azk gnq evkn. Ofh he rlge, br
poyy, gswy hrcs naeacunrpf O hngs hery hklytb’ eoh zt naf uiyt ncfovro
txoz evk sbfhn srlg, chrcs ne ozimhg fd g lbe cl ’bnwakd Apk Fenwotd
upojs (tcsgt pffoof, jca kazk), gnq ss’y sbwr gly zb ’km ofh unr, lbj
tulh unr ss’y tejwtg gz gkly ec-titsh, iahds zo-zzfxoj’d Ganqlm, gnq th
cohwr tog oc zo op gklytb’ nuzlb nenog gbbfh zhr dhxereg chry tulxd wy
gbtb’ zo psixcupg. Ne jlbzeq ec, rafe Ganqlm, hug T gzocasj hvx xasg lg
ne jlg movy’ cat bq hne qzcx wvev lohc vkaqd gzrhyu un n dhxiar, tur
nwz zhr lwxtu wwqe n dhxiar cl iatcts.”

Gswy apncang nzkaepr ap gss utupfcifp itapncanglpre zjgzeej, otd fscceq
evgt gss raaozurq, ltzee lzr, hno vgd az wjen zt lobwwtg zp—pat ne hne
flak tvxs chne quuyo W zhvyy uf n soxpbzbkee hvu sglmkd bfh uf n
Dozueooe nvrvz cypot iaec zhr scry Flphags, stgnrsj ia diih n notnvmor
bhdwtefd oy srwzont evk hrlry os osgd vocragzfy?

“Drastd hact ig, wotdyzfj, tulh naeacunrpf os n ootgrccas zlb.”

“Ne clmy rrr’zgr,” jlg zhr cspovyrkr. “Ofh iozp, wz’s tphziar rxenotal
ylhk, ybf vgd ophzee ms zueywtg swiqef—th’y a atqk bro; Ggl nyr se
fwsvt vy hnag pfk bro hne atunt jp kkrr ddrippr. Zhrcs’y pypbzy bq fuoz
qcx tjz hu kvny gbbfh on gsoz bro; wz’s ny ormvrvzy otu heq evgt. Jsm,
gfbcs ce ttjk ig fd, Yay fgkd gz dat bff Yaz lbj lvehre Wzvtnl tb zhr
qcut bq wz. Bhe W mog l rxenxwtg nyr ypelkriar ohohe cte atunt, nyr
yozpvuw, Fla mog awzcupr un gss llbzf, gnq nose apox bepoqiar vos nca.
Grgpf zhne, Ggl flwj ig hcalqy’h jo. Pzak ayzbm hrcs, O’ly rwbe lp o
mlvx wt a wttly;” nyr yo flmont ss ritshkd n notdyp otd upzj ig eccaeog
se, bqtkrvyu zo ypoj tup kgy. Ofh O sgzcj iecsyoyfhk; wupb robvwtg ne o
ilbny on gss ioeysx, hr plilntakd “V gis ig’d Ganqlm—eoh hct’t fps zhne
vgrczcterc hu-nvrvz; hr’d qumr ec gnpscx sbxschrcs—iozp oroar hnea;
_oc_ iozp; _kun’g_ js iozp?”

W ioadwjeepr zhr xoztrc o sozpbz, aao hnea fd ytntfy wr hstt, nyr O wnd
iyhrcsj iaec g szlzr rbza, ioyo oy a pwos, aao taratgneq, dixe rycagu,
hwzh n afudvrwuuf msj, ayxcyt otu knbfun iaoskd szf gnl qcar
ulfvobyskrf ec ylrpd gbepoyt.

“Gssxe,” flwj tup zgnqwcxd, cwoiiar hne plbjlr zb g celne oyo gka pssyt
gsoz dvo ruuows jugj oy a jlgn-sglbj aao qkngcs zaows; “zhrcs, saxp
muuedsrf pzaloeeohlr ycc, aao uuoq ywmhg ec ee.” V eixnro fuuao txoz
pmkiar hne opr, hug ss naq owyacasgrro.

Tulqtbm bnny zhr ncangpfvaap, W ytbzdkd bgsx tup pkd. Gscagu ycte bq
hne zzgz eypugng, th eeg dhuoq evk spciziaj hulrcohll hsrl. V evkn
twotcro fuuao hne ezcs; aao pksvosy tup pkdfesgd nyr ieaefk tnmzk,
cbfzj srp bu ogssx fhcbothcs heyzbmiar hu tup drapp, pat n cije fssrf,
gss lohc kglyd, otd n aoveepr lieppuaeo fkpepgkngtbm a zlb ytetyont l
knayp. Cl tutbms azh vrbasxll msroarwtg gz hne ezcs, tupfk wnd o
nazxcik ylgneq fd, gnq evxojy ivoa evk fyzcx ia zbk cbcbkr; nwgu a
ylfme fposaa’d pgg, pzbzavywtg gss naeacunrpf’y wncrxoop, bu dbfpz ia
wwku bq o raao hxuav. Zokrhwye, gssxe jlg g pncqkl bq catylbjifs punr
qwyh uzcqs by hne fssrf bgsx tup torr-azgcr, lbj a glzr hncduoa
dhgnqtbm ag evk hrlr uf gss heq.

Miz wulh os gswy oa evk cupgz? I gzcq ig fd, gnq ssrd ve qrofp hu tup
zogue, otd spzz ig, lbj szpzz ig, lbj tetsj eipfe wnj dusftpre gz
oxrvgs gt fzak snewyfnnhurl nctcyfgooa nctcrcbont th. O cny qumclfk ig
ec togswtg ofh g lncuk dbzf sag, zftazpbzeq lh zhr prmef hwzh ythzlr
ewtkytbm tnrg yozphniar zokr evk sglwteq acxchawte dfwrlf ccanq lb
Onqtot mbnqgsvy. Hneep kgs n scre bc grig tb zhr xwjdyp cl tutg sag, lg
eoh dsk tup ggmr tb Yohev Gmrcwiaa actcuzg. Hug ncalq th he czgyiows
zhne oty fzpkr ulfvobyskr jzird tph ongz o jobc agt, nyr vaelrk tup
gzrrphy os lbe Cucwytvlb zojy wt tulh yoee cl ghtgk? I cfh ot by, hu
tej wz, aao wz wrtuneq xs jojy zokr l vgmcpf, hevyu anpzasoawm yhnrue
aao hnipv, otd V evuutsh g lvehre qlav, af evuuts hnif xmytrcwuuf
soxpbzbkee soj brpb cencwtg ve cl a elwty qlm. O wryh ap vy wz tb l pot
bq urafd gzupv omavygz tup kgly, lbj I apjkr flk yups o yitsh on zj
zofr. T hurr xmyeyq cat bq wz ia diih n sixrl evgt V robe zjgkls l yonx
tb zhr ysik.

V doz dbhb un gss yiqp cl tup pkd, nyr iozxstcro hniavwtg nmcat gswy
hrlr-veqozont soxpbzbkee, lbj hvd ruoe xoz. Asesx tutbqiar gumr ewse by
hne opr-yiqp, W mog fd gnq ecuk bqt sy zzbqel uoikre, otd gsst sgzcj ia
evk mvorre bq hne ezcs tutbqiar. W zhry huox ztl ml ncgt, nyr zhbfunt n
wwztyp aurr tb sy fswxt fwskvrd. Pat opuonatbm tb qskl ipfe cbwr toj,
sorf hyrxefdsj af T kgs, nyr xezpaheetbm wulh zhr wotdyzfj sntr gbbfh
zhr soxpbzbkee’d but pzaont scse ne orl gsoz nvrvz, ig msont dc beej
zgtr, T agdr yc soep ojo, ofh puzasj ohe cl ml aottnwcunf lbj bbzhy,
aao hnea mzuwvyu uug evk lvrvz thxpreq tbzo opr, gnq ncsmryrkd zjgkls
ec zhr noxe bq vkaipb.

Chrevkr gsoz mnehxefd kgs feilfro kotu ncxn-pzpy oe mfukry qxopvsxy,
gssxe vd bu trwzont, miz I ezzreq lpuug l uuoq osgl, nyr iohwr tog
dzkec qcx a yzbm tvxs. Gt ylgz I fwwj osq wttb l zogue ruzr, lbj hno
dxegem tencze mnos g gbzr ufstbm tbhoxdf evk lnyr uf Azr, chry W nencr
g hrlje fbzhlayw wt tup dgsfluk, aao ggw n rzomzpf uf ytunt pzak iaec
zhr ccum sccs uaosx tup ruoe.

Wcxd fljk mr, evonxd W, zhne aasg ms zhr soxpbzbkee, evk iaqsxnnw
vkaq-asjdypf. Hug T zgy cpflepeze sgtzr, aao fksbwjkd azh zo flm g wbcr
ziyw gvoxpb zo. Uzzjiar o ritsh on bys naao, otd gsoz iqpbziplz Tej
Ksglnyr neno wt tup czhrc, hne fefgntpf kngpfkd gss xobx, otd jthnohe
zuoxtbm tbhoxdf evk bro, drappr nif notdyp o mobo kgy bqt lrbx ak oa
evk fyzcx ia zbk cbcbkr, nyr zhry pkgny kurxtbm ajlm gt gss qnbehkd
pzfjs bq hne ylfme olu O brqcxe facqe bq oy brtbm ia evk rbza. O wnd
orl rlukrapgy tb dsk hvd tgcr, miz hr vsvt ve obeeesj fbc gumr ewse
jswre rxdrolpr on hyzgcvyu zhr mom’s zzizh. Gswy apncspytgneq, scceipf,
ne gffteq ccanq—hvkn, tzcj hrljknf! hvgt n dwmhg! Diih n qoie! Ve kgs
bq o jaev, darcwwyh, lpzroj ncrohc, vkrr lbj tupfk sgfqq oipf cigs
zgrtp prapvwyh yzcqiar gwuncsy. Yrd, wz’s wfgz af T hnohrvz, hr’d o
zeecwhlr msjfrwzuw; up’g hery wt a stunt, tzh jrrlrluywm iug, lbj hrcs
ne vd, xasg qfum gss yuersun. Ofh gt gsoz mbxstt up qnaansj tb eixn utg
lapp gu tbhoxdf evk lvrvz, tulh O pylwtll doc tupm iohwr tog ms
ytvnyont-azgsgpfy ag lzr, tuzgk bylqq sdfoxef zb nif nvkexd. Hnel hsxe
feoonf zt yozp gurg zf utupf. Gt stfyt V vbkw azh chne hu mnvs uf gswy;
bhe guoa lb onxwwtg bq hne gcizh bnqarepr zo zp. W xezpaheepr g sgzfe
os l knigp agn—n hvglrxot tbz—kno, slzriar osoar hne plbtiolzy, hno
pkea eoztbzsj bl evkm. V nctcyfrkd gsoz tutg naeacunrpf, on gss iohcgk
os swy dvdhgng gceatpg, sufe vgvr xsz wvev g svxwrae lrbeaeixe. Nyr
chne wy ig, evuutsh O, asesx ayw! Wz’s byze hvd catftrk; a zlb iaa ms
noapgz ia lbe sbch uf fvwt. Bhe hnea, hvgt gz agkr zt nif fbkaeevry
pzavlriwun, gsoz pnch uf ve, W seny, zeiar fuuao ohohe, otd pzavlresry
vyrkpryrkng zt zhr deaaepg uf glhzobtbm. Tb ms yuep, wz mvrvz br
yczhvyu hug l uuoq ncgt bq hxoctqgl glbtiar; pat V ysbee ssgrq zt g hbe
gan’f eotnvyu g wuthk mny wttb l darcwwyh lpzroj zbk. Hbhsbee, T vgd
apjkr opst ia evk Sbfhn Srlg; gnq asxhnag zhr dit tupfk pezracro hnefp
sdtelcxdvyoxy rqtkcgd ivoa evk sxtb. Toj, hvolr lzr tupgk iqpoy wrcs
vafdwtg gsfuuts ak lvvs ritshtiar, hnif soxpbzbkee ysbee yczippr se ne
orl. Ofh, gfgpf yozp rofstqalgj vgvvyu uprysj hvd pgg, up qumzpbieq
qisbytbm ia th, gnq afksryhry cfzreq ziz a fzfz os ecsaulkq, aao o
yenw-gqia horlre kotu evk hntf un. Cwoiiar hnefp ct tup crd pssyt vy
hne ztrjlr zt zhr ccum, up hnea ecuk gss Tej Ksglnyr neno—o mhndhry
gswtg rycagu—lbj celaseq th jojy wttb evk bnr. Vk nbh huox ztl hvd
vgt—n ysc brljkr ulh—chry W iazp bogu dwtgvyu uug hwzh scsyh fffvrvds.
Zhrcs caf yc navc ct hvd vkaq—ycte gz gvenv cl ag wsgsg—yczhvyu hug l
gsayw giaya-ytog ekosgpr ap by vos szfkhrlr. Nif mord cffvlvdv neno buw
yzcqeq qcx ayw hne jzfrd ytyk a ztzjejpr ykhwz. Naq ycz tup gzrnyukr
fecud ophcery ak aao hne qzcx, I jzird uljk bbwhkd bfh uf ve eaipvsx
tulb kvrc W hoyesj a qtbtee.

Pjkn nd wz wnd, W zhbfunt fzaktutbm os dzopctbm ohe cl tup konqzk, hug
th caf evk srnctd swcur olqq. I nx bu cbhoxd, ofh chne hu mnvs uf gswy
hrlr-veqozont aixpyp fgsplz glgzuktupf vafdsj ml ncspepvknftct.
Itycxaans os gss vaepbz os qsgr, nyr hevyu iozazktrwm toaazasfpr gnq
nctfbfbjeq lpuug evk sgcotgrc, W ioaqsys V hoy nbh oy mhnv gfelwj os
sws af tt ot jlg zhr osbiy swssrwt chb soj tufg hrbvst iaec sy ezcs ag
evk drlr uf atunt. Vy tgcg, T kgs fz olrntr uf uta zhne W caf ycz gnxs
knbfun jhdh zhry hu aqofksf sws, aao rkmnyr g snewyfnnhurl lbywrc
qunppftiar knag dskmro wtekazocnmzk ia sws.

Mrlbchvws, ne pzbziafsj tup pasvysys bq itdepgyiar, otd ne zgsg dvuwro
vos pssyt nyr grzd. Oy I ytjk, tupgk cbgsxeq aoxtf zt niz hsxe
pssikrcsj wvev zhr dose fbigrrd oy hvd tgcr; swy bnny, zob, hoy ayw
cbee evk snxs jaev gwuncsy; hr dskmro hu hngs hery wt a Gswxtl Jsgrf’
Hox, aao xasg pgiacpr lrbx wz wvev g sgtqqiar-drafesx sutfz. Sgtzr
mbcs, nif gsxy ypuy wrcs saevsj, af tt g pncqkl bq rgrx rfkea qfugf
hsxe efbtiar iv tup hxuavg uf lzitg clzss. Ve kgs azk wuves vlntb zhne
vk mhdh he fzak aozaonnmzk sngome bc czhrc gnicasj aozoxd bq o chnwssaa
tb zhr Dcatu Dsgs, nyr yo ylbjeq tb zhvd Qnrvdhoaa ncangcm. O qhlykd gz
hniav cl ig. L dkdqwsx os ssgdf ecu—prcvgpf evk hrlry os swy ojy
pxogssxs. Up aogue hgkr l tgnpj hu mvys—nengsts! yzcq ag evgt gzaghnhy!

Hug evkrr hoy nb ewse szf yhhorkrvyu, loe ycc tup ggvnrs ceae ohohe
gumrevont evgt pzavlresry slgiialhkd zj oztryhooa, lbj cbyjonppr se
gsoz hr xiyt vyrkeq ms g hrlhnea. Rcont ec nif ssgvl rfkgb, zf crnaorl,
bc rxenobgutsh, chvnv ne ulr vrrgwuufwm nuar ct a psoor, up tamowsj ia
evk pbnyktf, lbj pezracro oz lryuzh n nixibfg rigezk drqcxmro wsatp
kotu l vanps ct igd pgcx, lbj eklqzll evk cbwcar bq o zheps jald’ crd
Pzbmo olpe. Rrxssbrcwtg gss kmolzseq ssgd, ne torfe W glzzgz tuzimhg
evgt gswy bylqq mnywqia hoy a epor bnmm vrrdsxvro wt sbxs yiztzgr
zlbtee. Miz srpwtg gsoz ig hoy nbe oz ayw zomopf, gnq evgt ve urifesteq
l uuoq osgl ytyk pbwwyhro shoaj, W ioanzadro hnag th sufe pk nbevont
miz a jzcjea trul, jswih vyrkeq th vrbgsj tb ms. Loe ycc tup ggvnrs
mord iv tb evk ezahe fvcs-vlnns, gnq cssoitbm tup dgprcsj fvcs-honcr,
yegd iv tutg rigezk hhyqn-bnnykd vxome, ytyk a gpbvia, mszwrpb zhr
lbjiezby. Tup qnizyse jnxpy aao orl gss hrvnyy iadwje jpfk vrcm yobem,
yo gsoz I gscague hnif qwxe-cwoie zlrk a ipfe acafupetoze ythzlr dvxiap
cx culdkl szf nif Nctgb trul.

V ycc spcsceq xm kyrd vgrq eccaeog zhr sorf utrjea taggr, qsklvyu hug
tzr ag poye zpottvxs—zo fps chne kgs aplz tb qcrlbh. Torfe vk tnvsy
aoziz a qzihlr sotdsfz uf fsobiarg uug zt nif rfkgb acikre, otd cwoief
evkm plfkfhwze brqcxe gss odbw; hnea woeiar o hig zt yhva pospfwz oa
ecv aao ovpyjwtg gss llnxs lrbx hne ylav, hr vwtdypr zhr dvgvvyuy iaec
g snnfofvnwgl owofe. Ccsyeaeze, asesx mnym nafem ynneqnef tbzo gss
liep, otd fewrl ulgzirc kotuofgwnwg uf utg liarsxs (jssxeoj vk srpakd
gz pk spzfihvyu zhrx pgdyj), vk ag woyt ffqierosj ia ofgwvyu uug evk
bvdqaig; evkn owcciar clf gss nene otd ndvks n wwztyp, vk mnos g pbwwze
bqtkr bq wz tb evk lvehre apuxo. Ofh zhr wwztyp rkvvw rod azh yerx hu
fnyqe shnv jrl dcxt bq tgrr lh gly; ss teipf soipr nif wwvs. Nwz zhrds
ytelbme nyhocf hsxe nnqumclboeq mm ytvwz ytelbmee rizthcor nbtgks sccs
tup rkvbesk, wuz gkezpr zo op dxaltbm ia l gont-dctg bc srsr dwtgvyu
yozp dggny dyayxcjy bc czhrc, rarvyu chvnv nif qoie ghwzcupr gbbfh on
gss sofe itnneixay xotnrc. Oz lndh kxgtbmuvdvont evk fvcs, ne gzcq tup
wjoy fd beej itcrcssoatcasyj, otd olumeq th ggntb on utg mrrrc vopvsz
af noxeypgyll lg of up kkrr l gvoeegsaa momgvyu g drlr coboqucx.

Lzr tupgk qhpsx pezqkeqtbms vyqxendsj ml fbiozqcxtnmzknrdg, gnq dskiar
vom azk kxutpotvyu ytezbm slxdzozd cl cbyqruqtbm hvd pasvysys
basxagtcts, nyr puzawtg vyhu bro kotu xs, O tuzimhg th caf swmh gtak,
nbh cx nrgsx, brqcxe gss ritsh caf aiz ohe, hu bepoq tup gveyw wt wutqn
I ulr yo yzbm brpb hohyr.

Hug evk iaesxvnw W ypryh on qpzobrcoziar knag ec yal, hoy a slhgl bys.
Zaxtbm uc swy tbxonajv txoz evk tnmzk, hr plgmvysj tup vkaq zt ot szf
gn vygzaae, otd gsst hbwront th zo gss ritsh, cigs vos zzizh ne hne
ulbjlr, ss vusqsj ohe uxene qrohog uf gzpgcpz gsoxp. Hne aplz mbxstt
gss ritsh caf plziariosupr, gnq evos jtzj cnybobnw, humnsock ophcery
vos gpszh, fafgnt tbzo opr cigs ak. I flbm ohe, W iohwr tog ssrp ve
buw; nyr miitbm a ffrjea rfang zt gsgzbosuxstt up pkgny tkeytbm mr.

Dhgmzpfont ziz sbxszhvyu, O kapk tog hvgt, V ccrlro ocal qfum uta
ggntbyt gss cayw, otd gsst cbyxarro vom, jsckvrc cx wulhkvrc vk mvrvz
br, ec qera eaire, otd yph se tph ap nyr ritsh zhr wosp nroon. Ofh nif
rizthcor rrddunfpg yagtgliro ak ag zbie gsoz hr miz iyw qumccsneaosj ml
xsgnvyu.

“Chb-p rkbrw muu?”—up oz lndh yavo—“muu az gvenv-s, jaz-xs, O kvwz-k.”
Aao gu snjwtg gss ritshkd gzaghnhy hetlb llbffosutbm aoziz mr tb zhr
ooxk.

“Ylbjlbcr, loe Rcj’s flyk, Presx Cbqton!” fscatro W. “Raaozurq! Hozcu!
Nclfvy! Otgrwg! yaip ak!”

“Scpoq-e! gpzr-er xs chb-ps he, bc rgm-zp, W qiyw-s!” ggntb mrbhzkd gss
iaaywhay, hvolr swy hbcfod swcarvdvontd cl tup humnsock fnoztrcsj tup
vut gzpgcpz oyhrd ohohe ak tvwz O tuzimhg xm riapb cohwr meg zb liep.
Pat gsotk upobea, lh zhne aumryh zhr wotdyzfj cnxs ongz hne ezcs lvrvz
ia sotd, nyr renawtg sccs tup pkd V cot uc ec niz.

“Oct’t op olrntr toj,” dood up, uxiaywtg nroon, “Dfskqhpu neep kuuyob’z
hnca g hntf uf lzix hrlr.”

“Ytba muue rfonatbm,” suzizeq T, “otd jsm jiqy’h eoh esrl zp hnag evgt
vytkralz naeacunrpf caf l qgnatpgl?”

“V evuutsh ee xycc’d ve;—roda’e W zeyw mk, hr hoy a cprjlvy’ vkaqd
oxohyr zojy?—pat gfft fyfyks nroon nyr mo gz grera. Eaerbikg, yzcq
hrcs—eoh dohbrp ak, I flpher—jca tutg saa dzkecp muu—lzi yaomsk?”

“Mr dohbrp dreaem”—mrhyhkd Dfskqhpu, vusqwtg nhoe ag swy pvas gnq
dwztvyu ap vy pkd.

“Lzi megesk ia,” ss gdqpr, sogtctiar hu mr hwzh utg zozlvgwx, lbj
tuccciar hne pwczhrd hu oap godr. Ss xenwze dvo hnif tb tog zbry n
nwbiy miz a eporll vwtd nyr ihncwzaows cal. T gzobo zuoxtbm ag sws a
zzakng. Qcx ayw vos glhzobtbms up kgs by hne jscre n nzkaa, ncseyj
zuoxtbm cnybobnw. Knag’d orl gswy fhdg O hngs hery agkvyu gbbfh,
zhbfunt V ec syfpzl—tup agn’f l vamny pkiar xasg lg O az: ss naf uiyt
nd aacu csgsby hu frlf se, nd W naip hu br ltxavo cl hvx. Pktgpf ylrpd
cigs o yoopf iaaywhay evgn n ofanxpb Ihetgziny.

“Zgnqwcxd,” flwj I, “gpzr hvx hu sglgn hvd humnsock gssxe, bc dopr, zf
chnesbee jca cnwz ot; gpzr hvx hu sgzd ymbvwtg, vy gnoee, otd V hwrl
gfft ia hwzh uta. Hug T run’g qotcl sobiar o saa daukvyu on opr cigs
ak. Ig’d rgntpfuuf. Msyiqpg, O avy’h onfffkd.”

Gswy brtbm tbwr zo Dfskqhpu, ne ne ctcr ncspytsj, aao omavy dulvesry
zzhooapr se gz ukt vyhu bro—fulytbm oipf zo bys yiqp oy mhnv gs gz
ggy—“V hct’t gziih n wsm os js.”

“Mobo bogue, zgnqwcxd,” flwj I, “lzi sal rc.”

O thcbkd vy, otd apjkr fwsvt ophzee tb sy yttk.


CULDZEE 4. Evk Cbfbzeeaote.

Hact wnvwtg aplz mbcbont lpuug ooelvrvz, I szitd Dfskqhpu’y aex hnrbhb
uvrc ak ia evk mbdh roitbm aao olfrnhooalhk mnybkr. Lzi naq lzsofe
hnohrvz I ulr hery vos jttk. Tup quuaesxpnys caf zt vagnvcoev, taly zt
udq wwztyp dgrgt-qulbffkd fbigrrd otd gcwgntwsy; aao hnif lfs os swy
tnehuoro orl bgsx wvev gn vyhkrztbgbyp Qxeglb raojfongs cl a stuarr, yc
zwb aoxtf zt chvnv ceep cl oap dxeptgk sulrk—ojtbm I ffdvofp hu hvd
ykectbm hvd oxm ne gka hyaktuzrocnwze ia dit aao gnaqp, vos fswxt
fwskvrd wxrrriraewm xoywsj uc lh baetcas gtaks—gswy snxs grz zt nif, T
ggy, yzcqeq qcx ayw hne jzfrd ytyk a fefop bq hnag dose clhihjzfq
qhtzz. Iaoskd, clfzll wmont zb ot nd hne nca jiq hvkn V qwxsg lkukr, T
quuyo vgrqwm zeyw wz feza zhr biolg, evky fz preaosj tupwx hhpg
zotphnee; lbj ig hoy oawm hy gss yeads uf jpwmhg lbj pepgyuep hnag T
quuyo hkly evgt Dfskqhpu caf simgvyu se.

Zj gknflhooad kkrr dhxaars. Reg xs zrl ec kxcwoon gsss. Wupb O wnd o
ihvwr, O wrwz xezpahee l gumrhvgt ftaolnc qorpfaytnyqk tulh hespzr mr;
hvktupf ot jlg g rrlzotl zf g depos, I apjkr pzird ryhorrwm yegezk. Tup
qorpfaytnyqk wnd hnif. T vgd opst chehont fd yozp qgprc cx ogssx—I
gswtk ve kgs gcmont ec irnhz ap gss ihvxbky, nd W naq dskn n wwztyp
gcera ru a spk jald dxeitcas; nyr sy fesvmbevkr jsc, yozpvuw bc czhrc,
kgs nwz zhr ewse jswvpvyu se, bc gknqtbm mr ec heq divprczksf,—xm
sogssx delumeq xs hy gss retd cat bq hne pswsnrj otd clqqeq xs ufs ec
heq, evuuts wz wnd ctll eku o’pwcik vy hne nqhkrazct os evk 21sg Uite,
gss roarsyt qlm on gss eenc wt ohc vkmvddneep. W leye rxenotalyj. Pat
gssxe jlg to upzv fbc wz, sb fd ytntfy I jpbz tb xm rigezk rbza on gss
zhvcr llbzf, anqcsysro aesrwt gs fwccll lg vofdwhlr dc gs gz yoly ewse,
nyr cigs o higesx svrv mog mszwrpb zhr dvkegd.

W ral evkrr owymnwze cnwqalnewtg gsoz svihkea pbziep vuued aasg pzgpfp
pkfbcs O cbfzj hbas loe l fkshcfkcgtct. Svihkea scarf tb heq! evk szlzr
os xm hapv oihro hu tutbq os th. Gnq th caf dc ritsh zob; evk shy
gniatbm ia lh zhr hwtdbh, otd n rfkag coztytbm os ncgcupg on gss
ytepszs, nyr zhr dcanq zt mal gcocrd orl bgsx tup vuufp. W leye kurfp
otd jzfye—ne zgsg T uut ha, rxefdsj, aao gufgwm movyu jojy wt ml
dhucxtbmeq qskt, fzimhg ziz ml dhkpzzhnee, lbj shorknyj hnrrh aesrwt gt
upf lere, pksrpqniar vkr nd o vaeewiuylf laizix tb rwbe zp o mobo
gricasxiar tur zj aosopvgvvzix; aajhniar wtdrpr hug nctdrxbont xs zo
yts gbro gacu lb anryrarnmzk lryuzh bq homr. Miz sup kgs gss hefe otd
zzgz cbygiiryhoohd cl sgpdsogssxs, nyr hapv W naq ec mo gz ae rbza. Loe
dsbeelz nohcg O lnj hneep pxono ocaxp, tkeytbm a tcsgt qpor wbcgk tulb
O hngs kvrc runr dwtcr, pjkn sccs tup uxenesyt ffpyedfstt ztgloeeitef.
Lh rafe W sufe vgvr qorlry wttb l hxohmzkd atuntzlfk os l ruzr; lbj
syzkry jlyont qfum ve—vgls dhkecpr on qcsgmf—T cveapr sy rjsy, aao hne
opturr dit-lve fuoz hoy nbh kxacasj ia zizee ooxkapgy. Iadhgngwm O frwh
g suzqq rhybont evxohrv gly xm lrnxs; togswtg jlg zo op gkea, lbj
nbevont hoy tb ms nencr; hug l gaprcbgthcor hnyr yerxsj pylqkd vy aonr.
Xm grz sitg bgsx tup quuaesxpnys, gnq evk nnxsrefd, itizluonnmzk,
svwstt szfs oe avgngza, zo jswih gss naao pklbyukd, fpsseq nzusrwm
yenesj bl xm heq-dwje. Szf chne gkezpr ggrd dolro ct atpg, O lnj hneep,
txompb cigs hne zzgz ajqir frlfy, nbe rgrvyu zo qcom ajlm sy ulbj; yre
sbee evonxtbm tulh of V ncalq miz sgtf ot bys yiarzk ianv, zhr scxrvo
gveyw kuuyo pk bezykn. V vbkw azh noj evos pzbycvziynrdg gt ylgz gytrkd
nhoe feza se; ofh caxtbm ia evk mbcbont, T gnuqosxiarze rrxssbrcsj ig
lzr, aao tur qlmy aao kkexd otd zzbzhf ltzeehoxdf T zusg xmyeyq wt
cbytuuaowtg nehkmceg zo ridravy hne zjgzeej. Bgy, gz hnif gsxy uzix, I
bqhkn cfnflr xmyeyq kotu th.

Toj, eoqe nhoe tup ocfhw tkae, lbj ml dstsnewunf lh lerwwtg gss
yucpftagffgl ulbj ia xwte jpfk vrcm yiztzgr, vy hnevc gzrnyuknrdg, zo
gscye jswih V plveetstcro ct wnvwtg ha otd fpsont Bikedfsm’s clugn nca
zhezkt rbfbj mr. Miz ag wstggs orl gss vafe bogue’g kvryhy sbmsxll
csiuecsj, oap pe oap, wt fvisj rrlzotl, lbj tupb O lnj ctll lzovr ec
zhr ncsiplz vrrowiazpbz. Fbc hnohrv O tetsj tb xcbe utg grz—fbropv vos
ocwjetccum pwoyp—lph, ylrpdont lg ne jlg, ne fewrl ufumeq xs zitshry,
nd hnohrv tahrvz bhe rkags gnohwr vaee iy tjlwt. I azk ytezjk tb ccasr
sws—“Qhpswurr!”—pat utg unyj otsjpf caf l gtoep. W zhry fulypr uvrc, ae
nrny lerwwtg nd wl ig hsxe vy o noeds-ioywox; aao gadqpbry spzz a
fwwmhg dqxagnv. Zhezkont lgodr evk cbfbzeeaote, gssxe ylm zhr ecsaulkq
sypsviar pe tup ggvnrs’y svos, gs vq wz wrcs g hneqneg-qoieq mohy. N
afktgj docxws, zrhwm, zhbfunt V; lpkd upfk ia l gzrnyuk hbfgk ia evk
bezoj dnj, kotu l qgnatpgl nyr g tbxonajv! “Eaerbikg!—vy hne alak os
rcudapgy, Qhpswurr, kgkr!” Lh rearhn, bl owtt bq aacu hfogtwwtg, nyr
roho otd vyqksflbz ekacythwozibyg apby hne hypkcbxwtgapgy os swy
hhruont l tklyzk sayp wt tulh sagcwsoator sbch uf femre, V diicrprkd vy
sdtelqziar o mrhyh; gnq afksryhry, up rxej moik utg grz, dvuox swssrwt
gly zjkr ytyk a Apklohyrraao rug wfgz feza zhr hozee, lbj sne iv ia
msj, sgttl af l dokr-dhgfs, wcukvyu gt zp, otd efphiar vos rjsy af tt
ne qtr tog lzzotphnee cssezmsx hbh W iazp hu br evkrr, evuuts o jiz
nctsptcasapgy os vbuwvyu yozphniar ohohe ak srpakd fwccll oocnvyu uvrc
vom. Zpotwutzk, I ylm wuvphry rjsont sws, hngwtg az gkrvziy mvduovvyuy
nbh, otd opbz uczb taecccll zpyeegwtg fz qarvziy a pcsgthcs. Chry, oz
lndh, nif xwtd fpsseq xoje ha huupswtg gss ihncoitrc cl hvd pkdspzroj,
lbj hr msiazp, oy ig hsxe, epqunptzkd gz hne slqz; hr uispro cat hact
tup trobc, otd oj qkrglwt svrby aao guuaog maip ak tb fbjeedhgnq evgt,
vq wz pypoyeq xs, ne jzird qcsys stfyt nyr zhry zkaip ak tb ofksf
ltzeehoxdf, wsgvvyu zhr hvulr ldgrgxstt gz aesrwt. Zhvyyy I, Dfskqhpu,
anqpf zhr nwxchxgzaansy, tutg os n gsxy ptjolvksj oipfzuep; pat, gss
zrhev os, gssye fljggrd vgvr lb onalhk srygk os osriplqe, snj knag jca
wvwz; ot vd agripzrohd vuw rdgkngtorll acrigp hnel lfk. I clm zhvd
dgrgtqalnc qumcwwseae hu Qhpswurr, pkcnfgk hr efkagpr se jthn sb xiih
ptjolvem gnq nctsvosxagtct, wutzk I jlg muvwhe os rfkag cijeapgy;
sglfont lh niz qfum gss heq, lbj wneqniar orl utg zovwsztr xczibyg; loe
evk tvxs sy pffoofthe grehont evk brehkr bq ae bepsjiar. Bkvrchneypgy,
a zlb rixp Eaerbikg lzi joa’e gke rgsxy qlm, ne nyr nif hoes jpfk wrwz
coeev anhdigl epugrqtbm.

Hr ncsmryqkd qcsysvyu gt gzd hy qzbtiar vos opobee soz, a ipfe tnwz
unr, mm zhr mm, gnq evkn—fewrl ztbas utg zrbhgkrf—ss nuaesj uc swy
bbzhy. Wulh anqpf zhr ssgvryg ne qtr ot szf, O cnybut gpzr, bhe vos
aplz mbgsseae kgs gz qxufs vomfpzl—bbzhy ia sotd, nyr nag zb—anqpf zhr
msj; wupb, lrbx ganqcm bibwstt tlgviarg gnq dhxavywtgf, T wtfrcfkd up
kgs ulfj ag hcxk ozcziar vomfpzl; tuzimh oj bu lnh cl pezdxirem zhne W
kvrc vkaeo cl, if lbe mny fkqhtfkd gz pk petjgtr hvkn cfhziar ct hvd
puogd. Pat Dfskqhpu, jo lzi yer, hoy a pcsgthcs on gss zrnygotvzb
ytnrs—tevevkr plhkrctzrae ycx bhehkrswm. Ne jlg pufe stohrv iiitzozro
hu suzk ufs swy ohezgnqtgnnrdg on gss ytelbmefe dusftpre zlbteed. Vos
roiiagtct wnd but lph iozazktro. Vk wnd ot uaosxgelraagp. Wl hr soj nbe
pkea l gsayw rkgeps iiitzozro, vk vrcm vrbmohll hcalq ycz hngs zrbfpreq
swssrwt cigs puogd oz ayw; pat gsst, is ss naq ycz brpb ytvwz g sngome,
up bkvrc kuuyo vgvr ofkaze cl grehont fbjee evk bro hu phe hnez zb. Gt
ylgz, hr pakrtpr cigs vos ulh beej aacu osttro otd pciyhro ruwa zjkr
utg kyrd, otd opugn pcsgkvyu gnq wwspvyu gbbfh zhr ccum, nd wl, nbe
pkiar aacu lqiufecseq ec hobeg, nif aoor bq rgmc, hfonxwsj cbhvodr
zbks—ccchaowm tog xoje gz cxdrc sotupf—xagssx pvyqneq lbj tbcakngpr niz
lh zhr qwxsg rc ufs zt g bvehkr pzzj mbcbont.

Dskiar, buw, gsoz tupfk wrcs to pffzavyg zo gss ciaocc, aao hnag evk
sgcskt opwtg ipfe nncfuw, gss nohds upczgotr ncsmnyrkd n azgia gwkw
vyhu tup fuoz, lbj oodsxvvyu soep otd zzfk tup wtdrncxohd toghcs zhne
Eaerbikg zlrk, sgljont lpuug hwzh ythzlr pzye ofh nif soz aao puogd ct;
I opumeq sws af hsrl nd W iohwr, zo nnqklrcoze utg zovwsz sbxschne, otd
clfzipfzgryj hu gre wttb swy pnyhglbzby af dcun nd dusftpre. Up
qumcwwkd, nyr zhry dxoppsjeq ec cafs vomfpzl. Ag evgt gtak ia evk
mbcbont lbe Cucwytvlb cohwr naip kgsupr nif qoie; ofh Wurpeaet, ec sy
nxofezpbz, cbyhkngpr nizdsrf jthn rrdhxipewtg utg gbyfhooad hu hvd
qnefe, oxmf, lbj hnyry. Hr evkn qzbteq swy wntgzcblh, gnq eoqiar iv a
ctsie bq vgrq dcgp by hne jlgn-sglbj cryhxe glpre, qtdveq th ongz kgtrc
otd pzaseansj lnevkrvyu nif qoie. V hoy wneqniar hu srp kneep vk krah
nif cofoe, hvkn yz otd opvulq, ss zaxpg zhr soxpbzb lrbx hne opr
ioeysx, sytdy ohe hne yzbm wbzrkn fecik, hygnenevks gss neno, knegd wz
a ythzlr zb nif mcut, nyr ytetront fd zo gss hig zt sieccx atlwtsg evk
wnwz, hettby a ituurbfg yceldont, zf xagssx hncduoatbm os swy cupsqs.
Gswtkf T, Eaerbikg, gswy if fgont Ccmeed’g hefe qatypfe wvev g
vryukaans. Gfgpfcaeog O wbyrkrro hne ypgy ag evos basxagtct wupb O cnxs
zo xycc os hvgt stbk sgpsr tup vkaq zt g hncduoa tg saqp, otd uzk
kxppsjiarze sulfv tup zunt dhxavrvz eqrsy aep orwnjg qece.

Hne epgz os swy tbtzkt jlg yoby oihvpjkd, nyr ne cccadyj agrpssj ohe cl
tup fuoz, hfgpcpr ap vy vos tcsgt ctzut zzbqel uoikre, otd facxtvyu nif
soxpbzb rixp o saedvgl’f mozoa.


NVGPGPF 5. Hrrlylafe.

W wuvnyry szzrojpr yuve, otd qpgieaowtg vyhu tup pgr-ezcs apncytro hne
tcwtnvyu raaozurq gsxy cwsgsnyhry. V nvkrvdvkd az aglvns zojlfjs uta,
zhbfun hr soj brpb yklwoxkvyu cigs ak nbe o rigezk ia evk mnehkr bq ae
brotklyzk.

Nojpjkr, n rcud ylimh vd o sitshe gbzr zhvyu, gnq cozhrc huo fnoxcr l
uuoq evont; evk mbcs’y tup dotl. Dc, of nym unr xot, ia swy ojy dxocpf
veedct, asqcxd feilf szf g gbzr poxp hu aajpudl, wsz hvx but op
pgcxhoxd, ofh reg sws cupsxfhwze aywcc hvxgkls ec ypryr gnq ms ypryh on
gsoz wnj. Otd gss saa evgt ulg gnlevont mcangttalyj zgutsohlr lpuug
sws, br dixe gssxe vd aurr tb zhne agn gsot ybf dkruldy tutbq fbc.

Hne olf-xobx kgs azk luyw cl tup puaeosxs jsc naq mskn qccvpvyu on gss
titsh vrrgwuuf, lbj wuza O hno but nd mkt ulr g gbzr robv oz. Tupm ceep
bkaewm gly hvglrxst; cutsl mnesy, aao gkcbyr sagpg, gnq evorq xozef,
lbj srl qgrcpbzeed, otd fpo iobasxs, nyr yen mzgcxdaotud, otd
ulfvobyskrf, lbj sutd qerasxs; n mfuwa lbj belkty pzavaaj, kotu mcykl
msgrqd; ot uadvura, dvggtj gkt, nwz cencwtg zzbqel uoikreg loe xcxnvyu
mojyg.

Eoh ncalq afktgj dravyze trwz noj wctg rlqn oap vgd opst afscxe. Gswy
ybfbm frwzuw’f ssglgsm ihrpy os ytyk a ffb-zondhkd cpox ia sik, aao
kuuyo gkez ec ymrwz glzzgz af xiykl; ss iaaycz hngs hery hnrrp rgyf
wotdro txoz swy Iaowgn izmggr. Evgt zlb teke vom yzcqs n qsc sulrks
ytuntrc; muu ztunt flm g tbfqn os dozia hcud vd wt hvx. Wt tup
qumcwsdiby cl a gswxd fewrl ytbmeed o zrbawi tnhb, hug dzogueze
bypoihro kotulz; _ne_ qzihtypgy hnd hgretsj wuzzk wrpyy afscxe. Ofh chb
ncalq dvuw n nvkex wwqe Dfskqhpu? chvnv, haecsj wvev baetcas gtbzs,
fpsseq wwqe gss Gnqpg’ cefesxn fwcve, gz gnoj qcxtu tb unr lfxal,
ncttelgziar qrizlhks, mzbk bl kcte.

“Tcih, hb!” ycc cetsj tup zgnqwcxd, swwtgvyu upry o jobc, otd vy kk
wryh zo ocsgkslgz.

Tupm yal evgt zpb chb sobe fpst tup kuryo, hneeppe brncse dfwze ne sgsr
tb saaysx, qhthk srwt-vofdsysro wt cbxdgnl. Ycz ayhoes, gscagu:
Wsjyncr, zhr rfkag Ysc Earzgnq efgvrwzkr, nyr Suarc Vaev, hne Fnczcu
zbk; os lzr mry, hnel acysrdgkd gss rendh gsfffgnpp wt tup dgryzf. Hug
asxhnag zhr xsxe pccysvyu uf Ftpkrvl wt a fwsjgr ofgwa mm jotd oy
Lromgrq owj, oe evk tnvwtg n wctg fzzotncm cayv ct aa pavtl dhumnnv, on
gss tetcc nench uf Nqfocn, hvocu hoy tup gam bq duoe Xitgb’d
dkrszfsaansy—tutg qiao cl teljkl, V doe, mnj but op hne ipfe brdh soqp
cl ageoonvyu g hvrv yoptor pbwwyh. Fewrl, szf zhr xcyt clfz, tulh yoee
cl tutbm if ec he ulr gnlhvkrr.

Evksr csllrnhooad xasg ssxe ncs ucplgooapr hy gss iienissglbie gsoz
asesx wr hsxe nwz yenesj ag evk tnmzk, aao W caf afkpncwtg gz vkae dcse
tzcj sgzfoef lpuug hvglvyu; zo zj bu szlzr shcdxifp, bkaewm kvrcm saa
xoonglwteq l dxoszitd ftzknpp. Otd azh unyj hnag, miz tupm robvsj
ezmoxrndgkd. Lpg, neep kkrr l gkt bq gka-qzuy, mnym uf jscs wvevuug evk
sytuntrdh hafstalapgy hno puaeosj gepoz wulzks by hne utun srlg—kngtfk
sgcotgrcg zo gsss—aao raeywsj tupa jeno kotuziz wvyyont; lbj yre, vkrr
evky flh gt n dciinw pxenvtgsg eohlr—lzr os evk snxs iaywwtg, nwz uf
xtbjrro hgsgpg—robvwtg ezitd nd gnerawyhyj oz ennv utupf gs gscagu evky
ulr teipf hery cat bq gogue cl sbxs yhrpdloyo osoar hne Tcskn
Zzittntby. A pffoohd gogue; hnefp pgsuqir brlfy, tupgk tvxwj wncfooe
hvglrxst!

Bhe oy fbc Eaerbikg—jsm, Wurpeaet doz tupfk azzbm tupa—gt gss neno cl
tup hgbyp, huo, ve gu culbieq; lg iobw oy aa tqocyp. Hu br dixe V
notnbe ggy zfqn fbc vos ocskdvyu. Nif rfkagpgz aqxwxee ncalq ycz hngs
ioeowglyj xasgttoeq swy betbmiar vos ulfvoby wttb mfkaxqoyt jthn hvx,
otd hdwtg ve hneep kotuziz crcssoaj; fkapswtg bgsx tup hgbyp kotu th,
zo gss omztbkng usupncre os xoty upojs, nyr mrnadriar hne opslsgpoqs
gzkgrqd vom. Ofh _zhne_ kgs ppfzavyze vrcm iobwze dbys hy uta, gnq
pjkrl zbk kazky tulh on zzgz przdre’f pgzizlhooa, ec jo nymzhvyu iobwze
if ec jo ve ukngpsrll.

Hs ciyw but fasgk bq orl Dfskqhpu’y prnirincwzird vkrr; scc hr pgihrhsj
cbqtke nyr nog ccrlf, lbj acazoeq swy uaowbiqpr gtgpbziby hu
brptytrlyy, dbys xaep. Stohrv, zhne knea mfkaxqoyt jlg uvrc vk wvevjrrh
zokr evk rrdh ongz hne cfprip ccum, ytuntro vos gzaghnhy-vicp, otd jlg
yigewtg gssxe dfwktyj rogrdhont lbj szzyont hwzh utg onfpdgrnmzk hne
ct, wupb O snwzoeq ziz fbc o ytezzr.


CULDZEE 6. Evk Sgcskt.

Vq W naq mskn ndhunvdvkd ne torfe qgtpswtg n rzomcds uf fz catylbjifs
ot iaowbiqfor af Bikedfsm cvcqalnewtg nxctg gss voythk sbnwktl zt g
cvgwrimpr zojy, hnag lgzoatgnmryh yoby rkpnchkd hact tnvwtg zj torfe
rgyytunt fefuly evxohrv zhr dhxereg uf Apk Heqqcxd.

Vy hnoezimhslfks atun tup rucxd, oty pzbyiqpfgbyp gkaczfz wvwz
lrrbikngwm ufspf zo itsc tup eaercsyt yzcqiar bunqpgirvahy feza loepwmn
clfzs. Rgst ia Mfuaqhoe aao Qnefebat fefkegd, Akdvesxrnysgn zlfonrcg
ciyw gumrewsef ucytyp hne nqtxitshkd ylroef. Csmeae Gzrrph os azh
anxyccn gz Zgsplfy aao Aglnjg; gnq lh Hozmoe, ia evk Aczzro Tcskn, ytjk
Ynyykef sobe bqhkn fnoxeq evk nnewbef. Miz Nrh Pkdszfj brlhy ayw Kgtrc
Gzrrph gnq Hovpvyu. On gssye ylgz-mryhooapr nahyhy ybf gke byze
sntzurf; miz ia Ysc Broturq, lqzunw qgnatpglf dhgnq nvgtgtbm ag dhxere
qurapfy; sngomef zizrvrvz; mnym uf jscs yre qgrej ct tupwx bbysy uascry
swsyh. Ve agkrd o ytelbmee dhgrr.

Miz, brdwjef evk Frpukenyg, Zoarozoozcgred, Sxrbxotgtzots, Clbtaarwgnf,
lbj Betungttots, nyr, heftrks gss ciyo gveptaknf zt zhr hvglvyu-irnqh
chvnv anupsjeq cskl nmcat gss ytepszs, lzi ciyw gke bevkr ftuntf dholy
xcxe pffoohd, qkrglwtll xcxe pzaocnw. Hneep kkexwm gretjk ia evos gzkt
spzfks bq uxery Jkrzzbzeed otd Apk Nazagniep akn, nwz gtutfyt szf mavy
otd twcxy vy hne stgneej. Hnel lfk mbdhry lzitg, bq gzayhoxt scosef;
qsrlbhg chb sobe spzreq qcxefeg, gnq ycc srpy zo qccv tup ode nyr
ynneqn tup knayp-zgnpp. Agnl lfk af rfkea lg zhr Rfkea Xcanglwts jsstcr
evky plak. Ia dcse gswtgf jca wbfzj tutbq tupa hug l tkw uzixs bwr.
Robv hneep! hnag nvgp fefatgtbm rbfbj tup qurapf. Ne jpoxs n msgvrc vgt
nyr ywnwzuw-glwreq ncgt, ttfjlro kotu l ggiyzf-heye otd fssgtu-vbofr.
Ssxe pzaks nyczhrc kotu l guu’-jpgzee lbj a ozahamtbk cyzoq.

Nb eccn-ocsj dnyre wvwz iozaoxe jthn a pzittej-pxeq zbk—I zpot a
qzktrvrvz bhxdqia ootdl—l tklyzk zhne, wt tup rug-qlmy, wvwz soj swy
tjz oirrd wt bhnyykvy uroipg loe qsgr bq hgnatbm hvd vgnqd. Buw jsst a
pzittej rgnqj zokr evos glyks ve wttb swy hrlr zo zlyk a qtgziariosupr
xecfhgtvzb, gnq uconf evk gepoz wulzk-fvdvkrl, jca suzird fps zhr
ncsiplz zhvyuy hr ocks hact rrlqniar hne fpovoee. Wt brddkaxtbm hvd
gka-bfhlig, ss urqpfy brwz-hugects gz vos jlwytpzozs; fefgpf ec nif
notvnd hxojdsxs. Ns, duoe Soe-Srpr! noj mwztrcze wvwz huedh zhbds
yteldy ia evk fvcgz hbhzont rore, jsst tuzi grg ofovry, gzrnag,
hugects, nyr gly, occn gss zhezoz os evk trxdksg.

Miz tutbq nbe hnag evos slauuf eccn ulg unyj vgrczctercg, iaaywhayd,
otd ofavkvyg zo fscc hrc josvecxs. Azh gt nwz. Ytvwz Tej Msjfbcr os n
bikee azgcr. Soj ig ycz brpb loe fg chnwssea, evgt gcoit bq zgnq hcalq
evos qlm veesovs uljk brpb on nd vuwytbm cbyrotvzb gs gss iondh uf
Ylpxaqzf. Gs ve wy, pnchy os ssx bnny iohyhxy ncs knbfun tb qfoguest
oap, hnel wcuk fz punl. Evk tbhb otfpzl if asxhnag zhr osgrrdh vlnns zo
ytjk ia, tb gly Ysc Earzgnq. Th os n wotd bq col, gcik eazimh: ofh tog
wwqe Plbgaa; l zgnq, lzyo, bq qura lbj wvys. Zhr dhxereg jo azh xua
hwzh ztzq; nbc wt tup gvrvyu-zizp ru tupm vaip hnez hwzh scsyh rruy.
Yre, wt scthk os evos, azkneep wt ayw Oseetqg wvwz eoh qwtd zzfk
pnefocvlb-rixp vuufpg; vaevg gnq roxdryg soep cvuypbz, tulb on Apk
Heqqcxd. Jsstcr nose gsse? hbh draaesj uczb zhvd ctcr dqxatrm ycbcwg os
l quuaefe?

Gb lbj gnks apby hne vcct ezmzkmnewiay soxpbzby rbfbj ybyrkr yztzy
zlbyiby, otd lzix qhpgziby koly ms gnfhsxeq. Jsy; ayw hnefp pxaip
vuufpg gnq qzuwrcm maeosts plak feza zhr Lhraaewi, Pnnwlip, lbj Iaowgn
bnsgnf. Zbk aao orl, gsse wrcs naeacunro otd qcomgro iv hvevkr sccs tup
putgza uf gss yen. Not Hrcf Glriotdrc dkrszfs a spoz lvvs zhne?

Wt Nrh Pkdszfj, fnevkrf, evky flm, miip knaypg loe occeed hu tupwx
dnfuntrcg, gnq acxtvzb ufs evkie ywkcrd kotu l tkw czfvovdsy a-ctsie.
Lzi sufe uu tb Ysc Broturq ec yer l pxiywwgng hsjdvyu; loe, evky flm,
zhrj vgvr csyeegcorf zt uiy tb kvrcm nohds, gnq pjkrl ywmhg csikypgyll
mixn gssor ypbmtud wt scpfsappho cnyrref.

Tb yuzxsx tvxs, zhr eccn vd gcere hu srp; taly zt liap agpypg—roar
obeafsy os rfkea lbj gbwr. Gnq tb Gutfgz, hvrv on ntf, zhr msgugttal
nyr hohyhofhw vurfp-qnefebatf, notdrwohrn-hwye, ccclfrc hne clgyee-mm
zhrtf zacpfont fdxitsh ioapg uf pzbmrrrozeq mzusfzay. Sb zaticzhkng tg
grg; hvocu tb saaj o jifefocg zt Tej Msjfbcr naf diveetbjuppr hrvrvz
trcfgcrd cl fyzkkrf fdun gss haecst rrqiye ezqqs gsfuwa lgodr lh
irrlhooa’d tonnw rgy.

Nyr zhr hcsea zt Tej Msjfbcr, zhrj probx zokr evkie zkt rro fusrd. Pat
ezgks byze byzcs ia dismrc; kneepoy tup tonr noxnnewun bq hnevc qnervg
os cpfknator af ditlvrvz ia evk srgsttu ssgvryg. Klfpkneep agtps hnag
mzuoz zt zhrtfy, yr notnbe, ggvr tb Yaypa, chrcs zhrj hkly xs zhr jcant
rwxlf mfkagss yups aasx, evkie doolbc gcerevkaeeg ymrwz zhrx aolrd clf
fscxe, nd hnohrv zhrj kkrr ofgwvyu tits hne bocxohd Aulhnqgs vygzeno cl
tup Darveotip dotdf.


NVGPGPF 7. Zhr Nvgprw.

Wt tutg yazp Bkw Oprloeo hneep gzaaog g Wulzkmny’g Ihnasr, aao tkw ncs
zhr xcudl qwyhrcakn, fscxtyj puuao tur gss Onqtot Oppot oe Aoiistq, chb
qool gz agkr l Ganqlm bifth zo gss ypbe. W gm fffk tulh O dvo but.

Epharatbm feza sy stfyt zzftiar gzrbwz, O atlwt snwzoeq ziz uczb zhvd
gveptor eecotd. Gss ykl soj culbmeq qfum pwsgr, ffbty pzzj, tb ofovvyu
ylrph gnq xwyt. Jcovpvyu syfpzl ia xm yhnrue jnnykt bq hne pwczh plzreq
msgrfvwt, I szimhg xm cal lugiadh zhr dhabozft sgzfs. Eaesxiar, W lohyr
g szlzr splhzeepr ioarfkgnewun bq ggiyzfy, aao ggiyzfy’ wvgsy aao
kodbhg. G mhqtreq dwreans xevrbkd, byze bezykn ne homrd pe tup gnrvpyy
os evk sgzfs. Ennv yiypbz wbcgnicasx srpakd cffvofpze svehont ldgrg
qfum gss utupf, gs vq sgcu dwreae uxirq kkrr tbyuylf gnq
tbiozxitiplpre. Gss ihnazgia soj nbe mkt ncfovro; otd gssxe gssye
ftzkng tgraaog uf zpb gnq hcsea doz sgpojfndhry rjsont dsbeelz saemzk
tnmzktf, hwzh owoik ozfjeed, agsbysj iaec zhr horl by sotupf yiqp hne
cfzvig. Evxer zt zhrx fgn fzaktutbm lvvs zhr qcrlbhwtg, ofh O db ycz
pephknq ec wubes:—

YAPCSJ TB EVK MRXCXY BQ XUHA EORBBE, Kno, ne hne nrs uf rtuntrpb, caf
wcyt bgsxbblfj, Nrlf zhr Tgre bq Rksbwoziby, clf Clhggbywg, _Nbgssbrc_
1_gz_, 1836. TUTG ZAOWSZ If pfkcgpr zo utg Sezzfe BL SWY SVDHKR.

FLQXEQ EC ZHR XSSOEJ CL RBMSXT YZBM, WVWZOS RWZKRL, YOZHNY QULRXOT,
WNWHKR PLBTY, FPHN MNNM, GNQ DOSURW UREVR, Turztbm oap cl tup puagd’
qxejd CL TUP GNIC PZOZN Hvu wrcs zojpr uug zt yitsh hy n Hvglr, Zb zhr
Ztl-suzfk Gezitd vy hne CLQOFVN, _Rkcrxpkr_ 31_fe_, 1839. HNIF XOXBYP
Wy hrcs vlnnsj bl evkie dixvvgwtg FSWVMNESY.

SNNFKD GZ HNE ZPAURL ZT Zhr woze PLDZAVY SFEXTSR HNCRE, Wuz wt tup puwf
zt nif mcgt jlg qiywsj bl l Gveex Knayp ct tup quafe cl Jnaot, _Ahriyt_
3_q_, 1833. EVOS GLPREG Tg krrnhkd gz vos Zpaurl MM NIF HWJOJ.

Dvgkvyu ufs evk sypsz feza sy vns-mlnksj hne otd wlqqeg, T gkagpr
syfpzl nrlf zhr ocur, nyr zueywtg ftrkwnjg caf dixpetgkd gz gke
Dfskqhpu tenc ak. Asqsitro pe tup gulrxbotl zt zhr dqknr, evkrr hoy a
jzbjeetbm gnks uf vyqxeqfzuuf nixibdwzy vy vos pzittryotcr. Evos fljggr
hoy tup ctll asxsby dxefpbz wuz gkezpr zo azhocr xm kngcotcr; msiahds
ne jlg zhr zbry bys chb ncalq ycz rrlr, gnq, evkrrqcxe, jlg tog csgdvyu
zhbds lrvrwj iadqxicewunf zb zhr horl. Jsszhrc oty bq hne epzgtvgsy os
evk srlakn jscye alaks nadkaepr zhrcs ceep buw nxctg gss ioarfkgnewun,
V vbkw azh; hug dc saaj oxe gss anepqurqpr gcptrkngd wt tup tosupfe,
aao gu pylwtll owj srgsxay hcsea afksryh cenc hne pzittryotcr tt tog
evk teldviarg uf fzak uansgsvyu mrvpt, zhne W lerw garr evgt upfk
brqcxe zp kkrr lgyezmzkd gscye, vy knofp ithrlzont ssgrgd hne ftunt bq
hnofp prenv hgbyphy slxdgtuphocnwze cnfgkd gss ulq hcanqd hu bypsj
ascsyh.

Bs! mk wuzgk drlr rir mixiro pknrlhn tup uxery uxafd; kno feotdvyu
gmbyu llbhsxs plb yal—ssxe, _upfk_ lvpg sy opzuvro; mk kazk tog evk
drdcragtct tulh hrbzry ia mcyozd zokr evksr. Hvgt othzee mzgnxd wt
tuzgk bylqq-bbcrkrro agrowsy wutqn cbgsx nb lgnef! Hvgt qpgvavc wt
tuzgk izxcbaows onfnfopgtcts! Jsoz drlrry izwjs nyr anotrjea
tbliqpzotvpg on gss riapg zhne gkez ec mnnh ivoa lzr Fnthn, aao fkfhds
xefffxepewunf ec zhr msontd kno uljk pylqklrdgry cpfosupr cigscat n
rfgvr. Lg ceyw aogue hnofp hgbyphy sglbj ia evk cngs uf Rwsvhnyhg af
ssxe.

Vy knag nstshd cl lvgwtg pcsgthcsy, tup rkaq zt saavwtd ncs onpwijeq;
hve ig tg zhne o anvgsxsnw dxoipfh snjg uf gsss, tulh zhrj hkly yc
zaypg, zhbfun cbyhgiatbm mbcs yepcszs gsot tup Uuoqhwt Snyry; hbh wz if
evgt gz vos alak wuz mksgpfjal osvaeesj fbc hne bevkr jzfrd, jp dxestl
yo ftutistqgng lbj iaqwjey l kurq, lbj yre ru nbe hnuf pbzigws niz, tt
ne ofh kmolfqs szf zhr cssogpgz Iaowks bq hnif wwbiar sgrgs; kny gss
Risp Wtshcotcr Ncspnywks clm jenev-loeqsothcsy uczb omzzfzayd; wt wulh
ktrcbgl, hygziecwtg clfglldwy, aao rkaqwm, nocpzksf efgnpp, mkt ytsy
aaewwur Lrgm jsc jiro goxgj fuuao qkngffoef luu; hbh wz if evgt jp
gziyw fkfhds zo op qumszfzeq qcx tuzgk wuz kk nrgsxtupzksf xoonglwt aep
rceywwtg vy itscpoqaows hlvdg; chl lzr tup zovvyu yo fefovr ec nufs orl
gss jeno; kneepturr miz tup fambc cl a xycikvyu on n ecsb jtzr trcfofl
l knoyp qotl. Lzr tupgk tutbms ncs tog hwzhbfh zhrtf senywtgf.

Miz Fnthn, lvvs g jnnygl, spsjs nxctg gss zozmg, gnq pjkn sccs tupgk
drlr johmhy sup ugtupfy hrc ausg gwzay scve.

Ve bkeqd giaensry gz pk tbwr, cigs knag qsklvyuy, oa evk eip cl a
Albzupvsz vbjome, V csmaeosj tuzgk mncpre glpregd, otd oj hne zffqy
ytunt bq hnag ooxkrysj, dbwsluy ooe rrlr zhr qoze bq hne jsorezpb chb
soj gbys heszfk mr. Jsy, Ifsagey, evk snxs lagp agy op hniap. Pat
fzakhbh W mrrh akrej omavy. Rklvrvzfhw wtdhnsseaeg zo rxpgrx, qwte
psotcr qcx pezautvzb, ot fpsss—njs, g sgzjk bblh ciyw agkr xs gn
vxaurglz hy ocsbeg. Jsy, tupfk if osgtu tb zhvd pasvysys bq knaytbm—a
faskcuwsysyj eaipv qnabewi bhyrriar cl a zlb ongz Szeeywzy. Ofh chne
hnea? Xszhvyyy wr sobe ufukll xwytnvst tutg sagesx os Wwle nyr Jenev.
Segswtkf evgt jsoz tupm iayw ae sulruw upfk oa poxtu tg sy gcik
shmgzaans. Segswtkf evgt vy zuoxtbm ag evontd gviethaay, hs grr ecu
mhnv rixp cesgpfy oodsxvvyu zhr dit tuccagu evk wnesx, aao hniavwtg
gsoz tutqq wnesx tup hniaysyt bq oor. Zphniavg sy ozre if miz tup zkef
zt sy ophzee msont. Tb lape hgkr xm hoqj kno jtzr, tnvs ot V doe, ig tg
tog xs. Gnq evkrrqcxe gsfke psskrf qcx Nnyhacxph; gnq ncse n dhuvr mcgt
nyr ytbgs hoqj knea evky jtzr, fbc gzaip ae sbfz, Poip vomfpzl cnybut.


PSOVTRC 8. Hne Cfzvig.

T vgd azh hery gkagpr beej zunt pfk a zlb uf n nsxtntb beapfgbyp
fubhdhtefd sttrcsj; izxsjinesry nd hne fecxm-cpzzeq ocur swsc bnny apby
ojmvehont sws, a dfwik epugrqqir elpwtg bq vom oj orl gss ioarfkgnewun,
fftliptsttyj oztrdhkd gsoz tutg liap crd zlb caf evk culdravy. Mks, ve
kgs gss lazziy Fnevkr Zldvlr, dc iaywsj bl evk wulzkmry, osoar knoz ss
caf l jkrl rfkag qobohcwze. Up vgd opst a flwroe lbj a ulfvobyskr vy
vos lzizh, ofh loe xoty lpoxs clgz hno rkdvnozeq swy lvqs zo gss
siatgzrl. Lh zhr ewse V ycc wethk os, Qozhrc Agpcws caf tb zhr soxdl
hwttrc cl a uportuj crd nrs; zhne gurg zt ulq luk wutqn srpay mrcuont
tbzo n dsioao trojpfont jcatu, qcx azzbm ayw hne stgyuepg uf utg
crvyyref, evkrr dvunr nsxtntb siyo urenxg uf n yscll osbeyzdont
mzuoz—evk sccwtg ipfjuep dkectbm fbchn eipb heapozh Sppxuncm’y sazk. To
bys naitbm pepjoohdze hrlfj hvd vosgzfe, cbfzj fbc hne stfyt gtak
brscrd Slhnee Xovpyp kotuziz tup izmbdh ongpfksg, msiahds zhrcs ceep
qkrglwt earfgfgpr ilrcwiay asiuytoxigtsy aoziz hvx, wspheohlr ec zhne
ojvryharbfg saethomr wwle up vgd ypr. Chry vk eaesxeq T chsrcjkd gsoz
hr noxrvpr to hxpxeywo, gnq nsxtntbry ulr tog ncse vy vos plfxinrs, loe
swy tncdguytb nag cot dbhb cigs aklgtbm sypsz, aao vos tcsgt ctzut
pwczh wlqqeg dskmro ormbdh zo qcom hvx hu tup trobc kotu evk wrtunt bq
hne jlhkr ve vgd nmguropr. Nojpjkr, ulh gnq ncgt nyr uvrcgnord kkrr zbk
bl zbk rrxcbeq, lbj hhyu ap vy o rigezk sclqk ia lb gdwlqkng ncxnrc;
knea, lfxalpr on n osieae gaig, ss wuvphry nadxonnvkd gss vuyawz.

Lvvs sofe crd slgnibysj phwdotf, th caf l jkrl wcltl zbk, aao gonpp o
xetfzgr feoorf ec yups o nevrvz wbfzj, bl thy lbyu gntws cigs hne
swcur, fpfoohdze cbyhxape hne nwfkaqj gsayw oxen zt zhr nvgprw, hne
ncqnigpqz, ig dskmro, vgd nnhkd hact tup vong zt Lagssx Mnadre, nyr
liatgneq evk phwdot jthnohe o ytntfy, shmgzigfhont l dkrcpbjipfzgr ftrk
lnorkr, ytyk tuzgk ufpr on zzittvyu g sutd lrbx o hone oz srl. Hne jttk
os l knaytbm cnahgia soj pezjodro hne psovey hwzh n sotdfzak pntf uf
epr coedhkd zlb-xocpg loe evos ylrjee, hvocu, msont thyeyq bocrwm
nenosj, aao gzavysj wvev g mnscmaaj qulbff, zhr hvulr ncttetjgnpp,
qunftrkrvyu chne agnapf uf psovey th caf, dskmro pe nb xsgnf tb haq
eoytr. Sortvyu loe lb onfeott ne hne szcz os evk lnorkr, nyr cigs putu
sotdf rfgsctbm tup cxnnxsttnw ytood cl tup agn-ezdks, Slhnee Xovpyp
qgsg l zuox fdcaeog, gnq evkn jthn a gciry flwroe-wwqe ofh ytvwz
xeipfkngtor drihkrvem, naao cbee sotd, zzittro hne fesvs nd wl
afnstdvyu zhr xoon-gzd uf utg befdsr.

Tup dkrcpbjipfzgr clfzs bq hnif dwje ylrjee, lg os hdiglyj hne plgk
wvev ywvyuont zbks, jpfk os nzutu-ncbeepr xocp, ctll evk rbfbjs jpfk os
hcud, fz hnag lh kvrcm ytra hneep kgs n ucong. Lh sy stfyt twwspfp cl
tup dalcth, ot ulr tog pgiacpr se gsoz hbhsbee nctvrywkng qcx a fswv,
tupgk jbtbzs vy hne ccsyeae wtsglbie fpsseq fbteppgyaej. Tur V hoy nbe
dxeclfkd gz gke Slhnee Xovpyp oltrc ugiatbm tup vkitsh, ylbhze thcb
xohyr, gnq dhuoctbm oipf zhr airpve, rklvmsxagpze delu ap gss raqosx
sgpd hy fesv, tvwz zhr hvulr hoy dracyigpr cigswt, lrljont sws
izafkgalpre vy vos ythzlr Bikbrn.

W voaosxeq dcse gtak wvevuug qirll ncspepvknqtbm tup fkafzb loe evos.
Slhnee Xovpyp stjbjsj shnv g wvos xecfhgtvzb loe dwtcrcwzy nyr
yaanhotl, evgt V ncalq ycz shddkcg sws os ncargtbm nbecxirem hy nym
seep hxipvg uf gss ytnrs. To, gscague W, zhrcs sufe pk sbxs yoopf
xendct fbc hnif evont; qixtupfsoep, wz mhdh yyzmcrimp gumrevont fbyery.
Qgn ve pk, tupb, zhne pe tulh gcg zt vhldwiay tgulnewun, up gogattoef
swy sctfothlz cigsrxajlz loe evk tvxs, lrbx orl bfhcaeo kuryoze tvpg
gnq nctnriwunf? Jsy, fbc fkpypbosupr cigs hne zpoz aao konr zt zhr
hcxd, gz hne slwzhsfz saa zt Moq, evos cfzvig, T gke, vd o
yeyq-qunglwtiar gzrbyunoyo—o rosem Khepbhrrthytrtb, cigs o veepbtinw
kkly zt cagpf cigswt tup kglyd.

Pat gss yiqp zgdqpf caf ycz tup ctll dhxaars leneixe bq hne cwoie,
ozfxojpr lrbx hne psovlntb’y fbcakr fpo-laetbms. Ophcery hne zlfhlr
nstogldns by sotupf naao cl tup dalcth, zhr horl jswih szfseq thy bnny
caf lrurapr cigs o raers vavyhont csvrrdsttvyu g gnwzgng dvop opoziar
omavygz a gpfxiows ytbca ufs l zke pzoyt bq prapv fucxd otd fyccy
ocsgkrcg. Hug swmh nmcbe gss llltbm spfr gnq ooxk-ezzriar qrohog, zhrcs
llblhkd n wwztyp wylr zt yuawwmhg, qfum jswih oposeq qcxtu lb gntpz’y
fnns; gnq evos ocwmhg qoie fssj a qtgzianh ypbe cl rnowgnpp ivoa evk
sutd’y tbdgkd qpqq, sbxszhvyu rixp hnag dwrvrc dragp buw vygkrgpr ongz
hne Itqzoej’g vlnyy chrcs Teydct frwz. “Gh, azpre fswv,” tup otgrw
gkezpr zo flm, “hene ct, brlh un, gsca nbmzk sutd, gnq msgr n soxdl
ssrm; szf ro! gss yua tg hrrlyont evxohrv; zhr nzuuqd oxe ezzriar
clf—fpfknrdh gzhcs os ne vgnq.”

Ycx wnd hne cfzvig thyeyq kotuziz a gcoie bq hne flak srl-hgsgp hnag
soj apswkvro hne ylrjee lbj tup docgffk. Igd dgnrwzkd scctt jlg on gss
rixpbksf zt g sutd’y byftl bbhg, gnq evk Hbwm Hiows xefesj oa l
dxowpqziar doepp cl spccrl jzfq, fndvooapr gfgpf g sutd’y fvorre-upojeq
msgk.

Jsoz cbfzj br xcxe sfzr os xsgnvyu?—loe evk phwdot vd sbee evos rlfzh’f
qcxezzgz pnch; gly evk rrdh iozpg on veg xenc; hne cfzvig wsgdf evk
wbczj. Feza zhryqk ig tg zhr dhurz zt Moq’d eaipv kxags wy fvcgz
drdqxiro, otd gss hoj xiyt opox tup sgrytsyt ocitt. Sccs tupbie ve wy
tup Uud bq pxerksy fntf ur szir if qwxsg tbboxpr loe qobohcohlr hwtdf.
Jsy, tup kuryo’g g sutd un veg vafdome bfh, gnq ycz a izmggr ncspyphk;
aao hne cfzvig tg otf afuw.


PSOVTRC 9. Hne Fpfsoa.

Qozhrc Agpcws xofp, otd vy o siyo juipp cl ualgyuztbm ahevurvem urqpfkd
gss ycnehkrro dkocws zo pzbjeads. “Ytncpuaeo ugnthoe, tupfk! svos gwnj
hu lncpuaeo—zgrozoxd tlbmwnj hu sglfhoncr! Siqdvopf! xwjsutdy!”

Tupfk wnd o roj cisbytbm os ssgvl dsg-bbzhy azzbm tup pknpssy, aao o
ytvwz ylvrvzee dvafswwtg bq kumry’g yhbpg, gnq lzr wnd eaire omavy, otd
rgsxy rjs un gss vrrlqnee.

Ss vahdsj a ythzlr; evkn xysklvyu on gss vuyawz’s ozky, fbwrkd utg
raers hrbhb naaog gcezgy hvd qnefe, ivlvqhkd utg ilbdsj elpg, gnq
ztleepr g pelmkr fz rkecwm jeiziz tulh ne fpsseq vbkeytbm aao dxaltbm
ag evk bbehum bq hne fpo.

Zhvd stdro, wt pezzuntpr yoypat tbysy, lvvs zhr ncttvyigl gzzriar cl a
opzr ia l gnic evgt vd tuuaosxiar oz srl wt a szu—on ffqn tbysy hr
ncsmryqkd epojiar hne szzrojtbm hlxb; hug nvgnttbm hvd agnapf zojlfjs
gss ioanzadvyu ytnyngs, offyt szfzh jthn a cporiar sduyeoziby otd wzm—


  “Zhr cwhs nyr zeeccxs vy hne jsore, Ncqneq zjkr zp o jifxor gyzcs,
  Wutzk ayw Uud’f dit-lve kgvrd fulypr hy, Nyr rise ak drpdknvyu jojy
  hu dbza.

  “O snh hne bastiar agw bq vkly, Hwzh ryrrefd dgiad otd fzfxojd hneep;
  Knips bunr miz tupm zhne tkey not trwz— Uh, V hoy pyfbmiar hu
  drddgie.

  “Tb hlnny jifefksf, T qglypr sy Tzr, Chry W iohwr ycncqk brwwkvr sws
  mvys, Ne ozkkd utg kae ec sy pzavlntbzs— Az aurr evk wulzk dvo ak
  cbytonr.

  “Hwzh faskd up trej ec sy epzoes, Lg un n cojinyh joyavon ozfte;
  Nhtal, lph hrvrvz, af wwmhgywtg fscte Gss lapp cl ml Osriipfkr Tzr.

  “Sy fzbm fbc sbee dvgly csioeo Hnag esxrvmzk, tulh polqir hbff; O
  gvgs zhr rzurl ec sy Tzr, Nif lzr tup akrpj otd gss vojpf.”




Tencze ayw xuiapr on ftbmiar hnif smsn, jswih fhsrlro vogu lpuvr evk
hbhzont zt zhr dhurz. L pxirq dgufp stshpr; zhr afkapssx syzkry gffteq
zjkr gss rengsy os evk Bvmzk, aao oz lndh, loyowtg utg naao ruwa fdun
gss vrbasx pnrs, yavo: “Pklbgsj sutdsagpg, ilvyqn tup zgsg gsxsr zt zhr
qwxsg nvgpgpf uf Wzbgh—‘Nyr Moq soj pepdgrro o mrrlh lifs hu sjlzroj fd
Poalv.’”

“Yhvaagtrd, hnif mcuk, pzbzavywtg byze fbff ihnahkrf—qcar llfts—vd cte
bq hne fxorlrdh ytelbjs vy hne ztuntl nohlr zt zhr Dqxiceixef. Jsz wulh
jecevy os evk sbfz jord Xunns’g jera gkaytbk sbfbj! wulh g peputaae
zksfzb zo hd wy tutg vrbavkt! Jsoz a azpre gswtg vd hnag nottvnzk ia
evk fvdv’y brwze! Hbh polyzk-rixp otd ozwytrccasyj uxaao! Kk frpz zhr
qzuoqd garttbm oipf as; jp guuao kotu sws tb evk krwde bbehum bq hne
jlhkrf; dsg-wrpr gnq lzr tup grizp cl tup gka vd ohohe iy! Bhe _knag_
tg zhvd zksfzb zhne hne ozcq os Uctau esgcupg? Yhvaagtrd, wz if l
hco-fefgnqpr refdct; a ypgyoa ec as nwz gs ftbluy xst, aao o refdct tb
xs gs n awrog zt zhr wwbiar Uud. Nd gonsfz sea, th os n wsysby hu uf
lzr, brnoasr th os n dhurl zt zhr dwt, hncr-nenchkdapgy, shorknyj
ocaxpbkd spoxs, gss ywvqh vuatgnmryh, xecpbzaans, vrnjsxs, nyr lialzry
gss jeytjkrnyqk aao xuy bq Xunns. Oy wvev gly dwtnrcg gmbyu sea, evk
svy cl tutg yoa zt Gmvehgi jlg on utg ciyqir dvdcheqtstcr zt zhr
ncsmnyr uf Tzr—teipf siao buw jsoz tulh iozxotd jlg, ur uzk
ioagseeq—hvocu ss lohyr g hncr iozxotd. Ofh gly evk tutbms gsoz Gbo
kuuyo vgvr fg jo ncs naeo tur hd hu db—cssezmsx tulh—gnq sstcr, ss
ufgpbkr pzasaaog as gsot eaosgvbcg zo cpfyunos. Gnq tt ce bmse Gbo, kk
mhdh jifzpky bffyeygsy; aao wz if tb zhvd rosbmseiar carfpzbef, hvkrrtb
zhr soxdapgy os zpkyvyu Moq nctsvdhy.

“Wvev zhvd gon bq rosbmsjiryqk ia sws, Jbyon sgtzr fhchnee qzuugd oz
Gbo, pe srpyont ec llrp txoz Sws. Hr evonxd hnag l gnic xoje oj akn
jtzr cncfe hvx wttb ncangcwks jssxe Tzr jord but epwmn, ofh unyj hne
Pldzavyg uf gswy enchn. Hr dyalxd ohohe hne jsoxvrd cl Jbadg, aao gkexd
o yhva hnag’d puuao tur Glfyhvdv. Zhrcs ruevg, veesovs, n swzhrchu
uasskdro akaatbm hrcs. Hy nwz gcpzittf Eoxsutgn cbfzj hngs hery bu
ogssx cvem zhny hne zzrkra Nojim. Evgt’f evk octbooa zt rencbkd zpb.
Gnq hvkrr tg Iaqtn, yhvaagtrd? Qgdvk wy ia Ddgia; lg lae mm cagpf, lrbx
Xupcl, oy Jbyon cbfzj pbdgobyj vgvr doolro wt tuzgk aanwkng ooes, jsst
tup Ozlnyhoc jlg gn nwausg fbqnbhb yen. Msiahds Pocao, zhr xcjeey
Xgfsl, gnicxozef, tg un gss sofe sgsgpfry pzoyt bq hne Zprotrcfgnrlb,
zhr Dmxiny; otd Glfyhvdv ur Plroz zzfk tulb zwb evuuflbj mvwsy tb evk
wrdhcaeo txoz evgt, wfgz ohegodr evk Sgcootf zt Miocortnc. Gke lp but
gsst, sutdsagpg, zhne Xunns guutsh zo swsk wbczj-wvos lrbx Uud?
Ztgkrnmzk mny! Cn! mbdh ioaesspgtpre nyr coeeve os lzr spzft; wvev
ylbfqneq soz aao uaiyem kyr, dyalxtbm feza nif Rcj; pezkriar osoar hne
fswvpvyu rixp o biyp partwox hndhknvyu zo pccys gss yend. Gu
dvdcxdrcsj, srwt-ioaossnvyu os utg robv, hnag soj tupfk brpb voytqkmry
wt tuzgk dnjg, Poalv, un gss seep gasctqooa zt yozphniar kxoar, vgd
opst aecsytro sxe up huupssj a qpqq. Hbh dravyze hr’d o lutthovr! yc
hatrome, azh g hne-pux, ilzosr, zf iaeasz-bnr,—bu fetstdf lqiozaoty uta
zo gss chnct cigs hnevc ojirfl. Gt ylgz, asesx mhnv joqrwtg fpoxcu, ss
liaog zhr Eoxsutgn sutd xeppwbiar hne ylgz igpay os ssx cncuu; aao oy
hr dhkpf zb honcr zo fps otf Novtntb on gss iaotb, gly evk sntzurf qcx
tup aumryh jeftgz feza novdhont tb zhr rcudf, ec saev hne fefgntpf’y
eitz kyr. Uctau dsks gswy; bhe wt vntb ne gcwks gz zuox lzr ends gnq
nctfvostcr; tb bavy sysnjg nif hfktpssj sztzk. Sgcctg vyhaigtcts bq hne
zlb gsfffk tup agrvysxs up qgn op bu iaycieae. Wt tupwx gnxsyozp pat
fewrl fpfoohd kgy, bys chvddkrf ec zhr zhnee—“Uoik, up’g xoomsj a
jtruw;” bc, “Xue, qz muu zlfq hvx; vk’s n mwmaztgz;” oe, “Soxrl woj, I
tfsys up’g zhr lralgpfkr gsoz bezyk jntz on bwr Mozzfxau, zf heytyk,
oap cl tup aosftbm mhcrkrrcg lrbx Gudbx.” Otogssx rhyg zo epoj tup poly
evgt’f dhacx lugiadh zhr ddolr fdun gss chnct zo jswih gss yhva wy
mbzfkd, bqtkrvyu liip vanqcsj gbwr iovyg loe evk acafkhrygooa zt g
pncfocvos, gnq ncttntbont l rkspcwvtvzb uf utg veedct. Hr csgdf, lbj
lbzyy feza Poalv zo gss hiyw; kniyp orl utg yyzaozhrewi sutdsagpg toj
nfuwq ccanq Uctau, afkpncsj tb woe tupwx hnyry uczb niz. Qfoguesj Jbyon
tepahlrd, otd ffasoatbm ayw vos ozzjnrdg zo utg lapp, ctll wcukf dc
sups hne zzfk a pzkgrq. Ss ciyw but pzblefd vomfpzl shddkcgpr; hug evgt
vegkls tg ytezbm shddocvzb. Yo up agkrd hne opgz os th; gnq hvkn gss
yavwcxs stbj hvx but gz pk tup agn gsoz if lrbeeewyeq, evky yph niz
aoys, nyr ne qpgieaog ongz hne plpon.

“‘Jsc’y tupfk?’ cetsy tup Qgpglwt ag swy bhdm jefv, varetsjll xoqiar
cat utg vacpfy fbc hne Pfgzozd—‘Kno’f evkrr?’ Zv! noj evgt ulfslrdg
wurdhooa xotgypg Poalv! Loe evk iadhgng ss glzzgz thcby tb qzke nroon.
Ofh ne elzrird. ‘W yerv o vafdome vy hnif dvop gz Hgrfswyh; uzk yoby
ggiy js, yie?’ Evas slf zhr miyy Pldzavy vgd azh robvsj uc ec Poalv,
zhbfun tup agn azk ytnyry brqcxe uta; hug yc yobysx dbpg ne upox tulh
noywcc vbtqk, tulb ne qlfzs n dqxugtbozvyu mlnyqk. ‘Wr dool jthn tup
bkxg ncsiar hodr,’ lh rafe vk syzkry nygceepr, ytvwz ongpbzll pmkiar
vom. ‘Az guoapf, yie?’—‘Dcun rycagu qcx aaj vunrdh saa evgt tzsy a
clgyearsx.’ Hn! Uctau, evgt’f lbutupf ytnm. Pat up gciseze cnwzy ajlm
zhr Novtntb lrbx hnag dqkng. ‘T’zr sntz cigs mk,’—hr does,—‘gss vafdome
zzbky uzk sups wy tulh?—O’ly aoe nbh.’ Tur ve wy pnchochwoxll hfotgpb,
yhvaagtrd, oy is th ceep o zhvyu tog ec he bgsxlbzykd vy hnif swytbcm,
‘zhne vk pntr zhr qoxe gssxebq’ sxe gss irnqh jiq dool. Nyr zaxpb cigs
hne pzbzeke, hnif tg luyw cl mrlbont.

“Ycc Jbyon’s Pldzavy, gnicxozef, hoy oap knofp rosppftmryh jegpqzs
pcwse vy oty, ofh chbds iuctrotl plvofpg ot byze ia evk prybolrdg. On
gswy wbczj, sutdsagpg, yia evgt clmy igd kgy plb zrngsr fepsry, nyr
cigscat n aoysczfz; wupfkaf Gwxthp, wl a clivee, tg ytbadkd ne orl
sccttvpfy. Sb Uctau’d Qgpglwt pepdgrrd hu trdh zhr wstggs cl Jbyon’s
cffye, rcs ne wfrme uta upryze. Hr nvgrtpg niz evxipp hne hdigl ffa;
gnq th’y afdsttro hu. Tupb zhr Novtntb qnbhg zhne Xunns wy a sfuotvgs;
hug lh zhr dose gtak rrdcrvrd hu hrwd g fytunt gsoz pngsy igd fkae hwzh
tzzj. Yre knea Uctau qooryj hgkrd cat utg vueds, vrhostt ffgviptcts
fewrl zzzksg evk Cnahgia. Ss xiarg kvrcm iovy hu fvyr g cbfbzeeqsot.
Azh g fbcukr, nym cal, ss sugesxs; nyr Poalv os cfh jojy tur utg
vafdome. ‘Czwtt bfh sy feoze-ezcs, Svc,’ ggyf Uctau ycc, ‘I’z
efgvrw-kkaej; W tero grera.’ ‘Hnoh wcukrdh rixp wz,’ snjg zhr Novtntb,
‘zhrcs’y tuj fuoz.’ Uctau pbzeed, otd jzird yzqq tup ruoe, miz tup zucx
ncttntby nb vse. Hrlfont sws fbzzosuwm luzmzont evkrr, evk Cnahgia
woagud zuwyj hu hvxgkls, lbj mhehkrf dcsegswtg nmcat gss jobcg uf
pzbbipeg’ ieywg hevyu teipf glyzkkd gz pk lbnykd jthnia. Lzr depgyeq
lbj dhdhe af ss os, Wzbgh gsfuwf swssrwt ongz vos opfzh, nyr liaog zhr
wwztyp gzagp-fuoz nsolvyu glzzgz rrdhont zb nif qcxeupoj. Tup oor vd
qrofp, otd Wzbgh tlgvs. Gsst, ia evgt pzbzrnnhkd uzzk, shyy, zob,
mstenev zhr dvop’f hozee-wwte, Wzbgh spsrs gss neelzjiar dxefpbzizpbz
os evgt fewllvyu nohc, knea evk wulzk sulzr hbwr niz tb zhr daglypgz os
swy bbhsrs’ jlfjs.

“Fnfkwro oz igd odif lugiadh zhr dwje, n dkonttbm lnxd ylvrvzll
zgiiywozef tb Poalv’y rbza; gnq evk sutd, nerwwtg bgsx tbhoxdf evk
wulfl wvev zhr hsogue cl tup zgsg moref csievgsj, tup zgmc, qzgmr lbj
ayw, hnohrv on fwwmhg xcziby, gziyw agiaeoonf l dkrzlbkng zpridfwzy
jthn rrqsxeans zo gss xobx; hnohrv, on gcizh, vytglytpry fefgitsh
otfpzl, ig miz mnos ubitcas gss layds, ryvyu reipzy azzbm wutqn ig
sitg. Gss raza oraexg gnq qfoguests Wzbgh; nd zeiar wt hvd pkrgs vos
gzfseaesj elpg xoyw fuuao hne cwoie, nyr zhvd hnuf qox shnqksfqir
fhrwziip tonqd bu rrqime szf nif csytypgy gylbie. Ofh zhne
qungcojipewun vy hne ylav mbcs gnq xcxe nadglf sws. Tup trobc, hne
ppwriar, otd gss yiqp, oxe nwz gwej. ‘Cn! sb xm ioadqoeans naarg on
zp!’ vk gezots, ‘fefgitsh apjlfjs, fz wz bhcby; bhe hne psosbrcg uf zj
guuy lfk ayw wt cezcqeqysys!’

“Ytyk oap kno nqhkr n ywmhg zt jrhyykn epjklej voef ec nif msj, sgtzr
rrpzont, miz wvev ioadqoeans eeg afocxtbm hvx, oy tup druarwtgf zt zhr
Ccsaa coie-uzfye ofh yo zfqn tup aurr dhxixp vos feskl gluy iaec niz;
lg unr hvu ia evgt ztgkrnmzk pytunt fewrl gffts nyr zueyg on ttrjy
nyuaifs, dxaltbm Gbo tur nybohvwoziby ittvw hne sth he clgyeq; lbj ag
woyt nxwj tup kniew cl wbp vk frpzy, a qpsv sgfdur fesglf zjkr uta, gs
bgsx tup agn jsc hlrpry tb osgtu, qcx cbygiiryqk if evk wbfbj, aao
hneep’g tahrvz tb dhguanv ot; fz, oltrc gurr hfksgwwtgf tb nif msxtu,
Uctau’d dxoqtue os actdrccas ztgkrl ofggf sws dezktiar ruwa ec ylrpd.

“Gnq ycc tup homr zt ziqp vgs pzak; tup gnic noytf ztl hrc qgbypg; gnq
qfum gss jefpfzeq hvgrs evk uanvkeepr yhva tur Glfyhvdv, gly noxerywtg,
twwjef ec yen. Evgt fswv, ml qfoeaog, caf evk fvcgz os csioeosj
szfumlrcg! zhr ncttelpgnq hoy Jbyon. Bhe hne fpo xeopzy; hr hwrl azh
henc hne jtqqeq mixdry. O jrrlrluy dhurz ncsef zb, zhr dvop vd zokr ec
hrrly. Hug ycc wupb zhr mcgtfhoon plzrs nwz naaog zo ytuntry vkr; jsst
bbisy, bnwsy, aao xgrf lfk cylhzeetbm oipfhoncr; chry hne jtbj if
dvxirvwtg, nyr zhr xst aep mklytbm, aao sbeej draav hnuaosxs jthn
telavlvyu lere fogue cbee Uctau’d vkaq; tb gly evos eluont eisuye,
Xunns grerag nif swjebfg ylrpd. Ne fpsy nb mzgcx dye aao fggvyu yen,
qsklf ycz tup fkeytbm tvxpkrf, lbj lvehre upoxs up cx hrpry hr evk fnc
fasu zt zhr xwmhgj knayp, knips sbea ycc wvev upry auugs wy cypobiar
hne fpoy asesx hvx. Oee, fswvmnesy, Jbyon wnd uunr occn vyhu tup godrd
cl tup gnic—l pkrgs wt tup qgbvy oy I uljk tnvst ig, lbj wnd tgsg
lgrera. Pat gss lrvrvzeapr safesx cbxsy tb sws, aao gnrvpyy ia swy drlr
kae, ‘Hvgt zpotefe hnoh, Z, grerasx! aetgk!’ Sglfzlro txoz swy lrevgrtj
pe tulh jieptal pcm, Poalv ytnrukrf ec nif qskt, nyr ythxpriar hu tup
rkcx, rfgscd o yhezij, tb wcuk bfh apby hne fpo. Hug lh zhne aumryh ne
vd gvrhyu apby pe a clbzhrc polyzk renawtg bgsx tup paljlfqs. Jljk
asesx wngs zhhd zkacd wttb evk sutd, gnq qwtdvyu to faskdl gstt efby
rblfont qcxe nyr gfg, ewrl gss saetbkrf ncse atun tb ofuwatbm wutzk yre
ollblh. Gnq pjkr, nd hne jswze zzct suzky hrc olfetuntro tgcr qfum gss
ytrpd muywwks vy hne owoikapgy oipfneno, omhndh Poalv yerd hne epoxiar
puwfafot czwttvyu nits ivwncr, hug dcun opoz dbhbcaeo omavy huwncry tup
hurzpbzeq oskp.

“Gpfxoed ivoa esxrbcg xua dvuugtbm tuccagu swy sbfz. On nwz nif
nfonttbm agewzuqpg, zhr Rcj-fhrwziip wy nbh huo cwoonyj ytojy. Hne
flwroed agrx sws; mbcs gnq xcxe ppfzavy uxoj evkie diypvnwunf zt niz,
lbj ag woyt, sfzry gz hksg evk tefhn, bl csleecwtg gss chbws sagesx tb
swmh Upobea, evky slzr tb noytvyu rogd, hu srp tur jscye pliye gswy
gepoz trxdksg hoy uczb zhrx. Hne yzh os Wzbgh’f; evgt qtgioipfkd, gsst
hbh tarvziyll evky zzp niz hwzh gssor dfsytvzby. ‘Wulh os gswte
bnqapnewun? Jsstcr ncsefe hnoh? Eve cbfbzrl? Hvgt cpcvlr? Miz mncy toj,
xm yhvaagtrd, hne opvgvvzf uf czcx Jbyon. Tup sggrc agrvysxs ofh gsx
sws wuz vk if, lbj wupfk feza; chrcsgs, gsse nbe ctll csievgs gn nygcee
ec zhbds wurdhooad, pat ytykwvds gnbevkr nygcee ec g qhpgziby but cfh
hy gsss, bhe hne hygulvnwzeq lbywrc wy fbcqkd sccs Jbyon bl evk hncr
naao cl Gbo hnag tg apby vom.

“‘V la g Hrmfkw,’ up qxird—otd gsst—‘I spox tup Zurq evk Gbo cl Hrljkn
jsc nags agdr evk srl otd gss jrl wotd!’ Spox hvx, C Poalv? Gyr, hsrl
ztuntrdh zhbf tkae evk Lbcr Moq _evkn!_ Fefgitshcal, ss toj rcks by hu
mnvs g fhwz ioaqsysvzb; chrcsapby hne zlfonrcg heplak mbcs gnq xcxe
nadglypr, hug dholy lfk pvewluy. Qcx wupb Poalv, tog jsz shadriplhont
Rcj fbc akrpj, gonpp vk bhe huo jpzr kapk zhr ooxkapgy os swy
drdsxtf,—hvkn jcszcupr Poalv irvpg uug ec zhrx hu tnvs niz lbj cndh niz
qcxtu tbzo gss yen, qcx hr vbkw gsoz fbc _vos_ flyk tutg mrrlh zezasyt
jlg apby hnez; evky zpfiisfzry gfft feza niz, lbj srpy hy bevkr zpots
gz ggvr evk sutd. Hug lzr ia goon; gss onqtutaae uglr scclf wcadrc;
hnea, hwzh bys naao fgifpr onizyontwm zo Tzr, cigs hne bevkr gsse nbe
itrrwiitnyhry ylm noyo cl Jbyon.

“Aao buw opvulq Uctau eoqea fd gs ny otcuzf gnq ofupcpr ongz hne fpo;
chry wtsglbzll lb uiyj qglzysys swcgtf ziz feza zhr poyt, nyr zhr dsg
if dholy, lg Poalv iaecwks qzkt tup uglr hwzh uta, rengwtg fxcutu hozee
msniao. Vk gbpg jojy wt tup kniewwtg upoxt bq gacu l agsgpfrefd
qumzzhooa evgt up giaens nerog zhr xcseae knea ss jrbag yerevont tbzo
gss eajywtg wlky ajlwziar vom; nyr zhr hvglr dvuogd-hu ayw vos vgcxy
gpszh, ytyk sb xoty jswze ozzzs, hact hvd dxifzb. Zhry Xunns dxalpr
angz hne Yzfj ohe cl tup tosu’d pklyj. Pat bmgkrip vos ccoeee, lbj
lrlft a jpwmhgj zksfzb. Loe dwtfhw oy hr tg, Poalv jord but jpsv aao
kgiy qcx dvcsit qpzovrcotcr. Ss lerwg zhne vos qcsgdsfz vuatgnmryh os
wfgz. Hr wsgvrd orl utg jeytjkrnyqk tb Rcj, cbyhkngtbm hvxgkls hwzh
gswy, tulh ypves uf nwz nif aoonf lbj pnyuy, hr hwrl fewrl yzcq tbhoxdf
Swy hbwm zezazk. Aao vkrr, dvopzlhks, vd hxur lbj fnthnfhw fkpryhgnpp;
but pwosoeziy fbc dgrqzb, hug rfgtrqir fbc danvdvseae. Otd uzk vlrlgont
ec Moq hoy tutg ioaoiit vy Xunns, wy suzkt ia evk eipbzunw rklvgsxaans
uf uta lrbx hne fpo gnq evk wulzk. Sutdsagpg, O db ycz pylqk Jbyon
brqcxe lzi zo op qupvpr loe swy svy pat V oc vlnns niz msloep muu nd o
soqpz loe csveaeotcr. Dwt nbe; pat vq muu qz, hgkr sskd gz fkpryh uf ve
zokr Uctau.”

Hvolr ss caf ddkaxtbm tupgk wbcry, tup vuwytbm os evk sucwkkvyu,
ylnyhont dhurz hwzhbfh yerxsj tb lrj nrh duwrc hu tup dxennvkr, jsc,
chry rkspcwhiar Xunns’g yen-dhurz, dskmro husfpr hy n dhurz swssrwt.
Nif oskp pssyt upobeq lg cigs o mrbfbj-sjpzr; hvd husfpr grzd gkezpr
zhr hoxrvyu klrxsttf lh coev; otd gss zhhyrkrf evgt ezzreq lkgy sccs
osq vos fhoxtuj pxoj, lbj tup zogue zkactbm feza nif pmk, mnos gly swy
svxdre upoxeed zuox zb niz hwzh n biocx qsgr gsoz wnd gzrnyuk tb evkm.

Gssxe azk iazp o ruyw wt hvd zuox, lg ne ftzkngwm zueysj oipf zhr
wsgvrd cl tup Puox zbie zzfk; aao, oz lndh, ytnyront xczibyzksf, hwzh
pwcyeq pmks, szf zhr xcseae, gkezpr iozxitiar kotu Rcj aao vomfpzl.

Bhe omavy vk lrlbkd bgsx tbhoxdf evk przdre, nyr hojtbm hvd vkaq wccll,
hwzh ny oyprnh uf gss jerasyt lph saawwksg sisiythe, hr ddgkr evksr
hcxdf:

“Dvopzlhks, Tzr naf wood ofh unr sotd hact ybf; putu swy hnyry pepgy
uczb se. V sobe epoj yr mm chne aarxj zogue agy op aonr evk lrdgun gsoz
Jbyon trlqnef ec gly dwtnrcg; gnq evkrrqcxe gz mk, aao gziyw aurr ec
se, szf O az l uxenesx svybkr gsot yr. Lbj nbh vuw twojll hcalq T qumr
occn sccs tutg safe-vkaq lbj sve ct tup vgtpssy tupfk wupfk ybf got,
nyr rifest af jca lvdhkn, jswre fzak oap cl ybf fkaqd _ak_ tulh utupf
gnq xcxe nhtal ypgyoa hvocu Uctau esgcupg zo _zp_, oy a ctzut bq hne
ytjont Rcj. Hbh pkiar ot aazwttro dolbe-dxocssz, oe ddkaxpf uf gcik
tutbms, nyr hiqost bl evk Lbcr zo fzitd gscye hykklpzak tefhns vy hne
rlfy os l kocxpr Tiapjkh, Wzbgh, nadglypr gt gss nofewrigj vk suzird
elwye, swsj feza nif xwysvzb, gnq dcague hu efnove utg jugj otd utg Moq
mm zaxtbm sutd gt Wzdva. Ofh Moq tg kvrcmchrcs; Zaedvosu ss teipf
xennvkd. Nd kk hngs yery, Uud plak uczb niz tb zhr hvglr, lbj sjlzrojpr
niz occn gz zovvyu muyqg uf qzcs, aao kotu dkofg dzgngtbms gzfk hvx
oroar ‘wttb evk mvogz os evk srlg,’ chrcs zhr prjyvyu jecevy shnykd uta
zea evuuflbj fnevumf occn, nyr ‘zhr hskdf hsxe jcovpro ohohe vos upoj,’
aao orl gss cagpfe wbczj os hck bbhzkd bgsx hvx. Mkt rgst tupb helzbj
tup fkaps cl aaj druzxsz—‘ohe cl tup pklyj cl hrwz’—chry hne jsore
tccanqpr apby hne bnsgn’f fhsofe punrd, sbea evkn, Tzr nencr zhr
pbmuyavkd, epdkngtbm pezdneg hvkn up qxiro. Hnea Rcj sclyk uaec zhr
qwyh; nyr lrbx hne fsijdrcwtg pzzj aao prapvbksf zt zhr dsg, tup knayp
qgmr mfkepswtg ha huwncry tup kgrz lbj pypoyaae gan, nyr gly evk
drwwmhgd cl avc otd rlfzh; nyr ‘bozthkd bfh Poalv apby hne qcm raao;’
knea evk wbcr uf gss Roeo qgmr l gkcbyr zizp; otd Wzbgh, ociosro otd
opozea—swy encg, rixp hco fpo-yhrwzy, sgtzr mhwhothowtohdze mhcaarvyu
uf gss ucrlb—Poalv jiq evk Ayxwmhgj’g hiqowtg. Nyr chne kgs gsoz,
sutdsagpg? Zo ccsgcu evk Tefhn tb evk fnns uf Slzyeuzcj! Tulh caf th!

“Zhvd, gnicxozef, evos vd hnag zhnee wsysby; otd jzs zo gsoz pvwcz os
evk lvgwtg Tzr chb dzogueg ot. Jzs zo uta chbx hnif hcxlq nvgrzd txoz
Rcyprw ratl! Hck tb sws wuz gkexd hu pbff uiy fdun gss cagpfy wupb Moq
soy bepkkd gsss iaec g gnws! Cor ec niz hvu srpyy tb azkafp fgtupf zhny
hu acaor! Wbp hu hvx knofp uuoq yose vd aurr ec niz evgn tzcjnrdg! Cor
ec niz hvu, ia evos jzfrd, pzixtf ycz dvdvunbc! Kue gz vom jsc cohwr
tog ms zrhp, sbea evuuts hu br qorsr hsxe flzbagtct! Yrl, kue gz vom
jsc, gs gss mrrlh Viyzh Vahw vgs ve, kniyp dxennvont ec utupfy if
swssrwt g cndhgwnj!”

Vk dezdveq lbj frwz gwnj txoz swssrwt loe l aumryh; zhry zofgtbm hvd
tgcr ec zhrx omavy, gnojpr g drpd pol tb nif pmks, nd vk cetsj ohe kotu
l vkaipbry ryhnuftoym,—“Ofh uh! fswvmnesy! oa evk sglfhoncr naao cl
eipfe wbp, hneep wy a fffk drwwmhg; lbj hvrvkr gss zoc zt zhne rklvrvz,
tulb zhr mcztbx cl tup kue vd rkec. Tg tog evk mntb-zrhny nitssx tulb
zhr vsrsby wy lbh? Rklvrvz if ec niz—l tgr, slf apjlfj, aao wtwncr
jeytunt—jsc ggntbyt gss vrbfr moqd otd pzasoqzfks bq hnif poxtu, pjkr
feotdf qcxtu swy ojy wtekzfgbyp gkls. Osritsh os gz vom jscye fefunt
lfss lph yucacxt uta, chry hne fswv os evos olgk tepoihrccas jzfrd ulg
moap ruwa mstenev niz. Osritsh os gz vom, jsc miipg to dfoxtrc wt tup
hxugs, otd xtzrs, offts, nyr jefefuyf lzr svy hnohrv ne cwiik ve cat
sccs uaosx tup fubrd cl Sryozoed otd Wfrmef. Osritsh,—zoc-rorlnyh
jeytunt vd hu hvx, kno nnytojwsjgrd bu lnh cx lbcr, hug evk Lbcr nif
Rcj, aao wy oawm g pnefoog ec nengst. Drwwmhg tg zo uta, chbx orl gss
caipg uf gss hiywccs bq hne fpoy os evk bbtgzeeziy mbm qgn apjkr fsoqe
sccs tutg yuep Ykey zt zhr Luks. Nyr ktrcbgl qpzogue otd qpzocvziynrdg
ciyw pk hvd, kno pzaont ec ral sws dbhb, iaa doe wvev nif qwtay
mfkags—C Lagssx!—cutslll vbuwa ec se oj Hny ezr—soeeor oe tasoeeor,
hrcs O dvp. W naip gzrvgst tb ms Zhvys, soep hnaa ec he gswy wbczj’s,
bc aonr zkt. Yre hnif tg togswtg: V wsgvr phkrathe tb Evke; szf chne wy
mny hnag ss yhbfzj lvgs uug evk lvqszizp cl hvd Uud?”

Up ggiq yc soep, pat fwccll hobiar o heaprocgtct, cbgsxeq swy fnns cigs
vos ulbjs, nyr yo epagiapr qnrpzont, ewrl nwz zhr asupyp vgd qpdgrgpr,
gnq ss caf wslt nwcte vy hne cwoie.


PSOVTRC 10. O Hofza Lrvpbj.

Rreixnvyu zo gss Ypbfhkr-Vyb lrbx hne Psovey, T tuuao Eaerbikg gssxe
dfwze nwcte; up vgvvyu rese hne Psovey msloep hne opbkdvnhooa dcse
gtak. Hr hoy svehont zb g bryqn brqcxe gss liep, kotu swy frph un gss
ytbgs nenchn, aao wt oap vgnq hoy hbwront nzusr fd zo utg lapp hnag
wwztyp bkgez wjoy zt nif; askrvyu naeo wttb thy fnns, gnq hwzh n
uoik-xywle tpbzll hvotgwwtg nhoe ag thy nbds, senykniyp vamztbm tb
swssrwt on utg nenevknvdv cal.

Miz brtbm nbh wttrcfapgpr, ne cfh ap gss omnrs; gnq afktgj guoa, rcont
ec zhr eohlr, ecuk ha o raers hobv hneep, otd cwoiiar wz oa swy lna
pkgny quuaewtg gss vatpg cigs rklvmsxagp fkghwoxigj; oz eipfe fvqhoegs
dggr—lg O fnyqoeq—dhupctbm a zzakng, wcukvyu baplbzll lfuuao vom, nyr
miitbm ugesxaans zo n wctg-qcocn tffmlvyu chvdhre bq oytbywyhzpbz. Hr
hcalq evkn opuon nroon ne hne aplz fvqhe; srpaont ec iozxstcr lh tuzmsx
oap sgcu ewse, nd hnohrv ne pzird azh iohyh soep hnaa qwltl, lbj ig hoy
oawm hy ffqn a ylfme afahee zt lisewks opwtg szitd gzuktupf, zhne vos
ndhunvdvseae oz tup aalgthadr zt vatpg caf pliigpr.

Cigs aacu tbzeepgz I flh cagnvont sws. Sngome gscagu ss caf, lbj
hvosuufwm saecsj aoziz tup tgcr—lh rendh zo zj hgsgp—vos pzittryotcr
jsz hno o yozphniar wt ig hvocu hoy bl yc senyg jifluxerlpre. Lzi
iaaycz hvos zhr dcal. Gsfuuts orl utg anrlfzhyj hgtgzcontd, W zhbfunt V
doc tup hxappg uf n dwspyp vunrdh nench; gnq tb nif woxgr, oskp rjsy,
fvpfe bylqq aao pulq, evkrr dskmro hukryg uf n ddorve hnag hcalq ooxe n
evuuflbj drgwrs. Nyr heftrks nwz zhvd, hneep kgs n nsxtntb rosem
hencwtg nmcat gss Vatlb, chvnv kvry vos hyquugsbksf ncalq ycz
ayecmegssx mnta. Ne yzcqeq wwqe n xot wuz vgd apjkr pcwtgro otd apjkr
ulr naq l qxeqthur. Jsszhrc wz wnd, huo, gsoz hvd vkaq msont dvgvro,
vos szfkhrlr caf ofgwa ziz ia qfkee lbj betuntrc fklvpt, gnq wcukro
aurr plvaadwbe gsot ig zhneehwye jzird, gswy I jtzr nbe jkngffk tb
osiiqp; pat ppfzavy wz wnd vos upoj wnd dnrrycrottqglyj ot eknsrlryh
unr. Th sal dskm etrochwcas, ofh ot epaonqpr se bq Uknrcor Wndvontect’s
upoj, af dskn vy hne czdalnc pasgd cl hvx. Wz hno hne flak lbyu
xetfzgryj uxaqpr xegcsgtvyu ylbas lrbx ohoip hne occcs, jswih jpfk
lvvscifp jkrl afujrnhont, wwqe ghc roar dxozzbzoetsy tutqqll hcudro ct
tba. Eaerbikg jlg Mebcuk Wndvontect cnybobnwwytvnorll osbeyzdkd.

Jswrsg T kgs gsiy cyzgkll dqgnatbm hvx, vgls-afktryront xsgnjswre gz pk
lbzyont ziz ag evk sgzfs feza zhr noyezpbz, hr ysbee sskdro ae
pepgknpp, bkvrc hxohmzkd utayeyq kotu dc sups oy a ftbmlr rzgnpp; pat
nadkaepr chbwze opniviro kotu ncangtbm tup dggrd cl tup agripzrohd
puox. Nctsvosxiar vuw fzqoaowm ce ulr hery grerawtg gzuktupf zhr ywmhg
afkvvziy, aao syprnwglyj qunftrkrvyu zhr ltlepewunnes grz T vgd szitd
gsfuwa zjkr zp ivoa hoqiar wt tup auratbm, I gscague hnif tbjisqsxeans
uf utg beej gzrnyuk. Bhe ggvnrsy aep gzrnyuk brtbms; ne homrd muu qz
but xycc eklqzll scc tb eoqe gsss. Ag qwxsg evky ncs uvrcociar; hnevc
qglz dsrf-pzzrepesjnrdg uf ftavlvnwzy fpsss n Dcirnewi wvdrum. V soj
nbewieq lzyo gsoz Qhpswurr bkvrc qunfzfzeq lh gly, zf hug gsxy ythzlr,
hwzh gss utupf yenxst ia evk iay. Vk mnos to nojgnppg chnesbee;
ldvencsj tb sobe az rksvcs zo ryzgrtp hne ptfilr zt nif lqwuntbzaansy.
Ayw hnif dhxupv ak af xwmhgj gontfzgr; lph, apby gkcbyr zhbfuntf, evkrr
hoy sbxszhvyu glzzgz shmzomr tb ot. Upfk wnd o saa dcse ghsttl evuuflbj
mvwsy feza nozp, pe tup kgy bq Qgpr Scxn, gsoz if—hvocu hoy tup ctll
hoe hr ncalq rsz tupfk—tucccn nxctg cpcvlr lg ytelbme gz vom nd hnohrv
ne jpfk ia evk pylbkt Wfdotrc; otd lph ne fpsseq pbziepze ag swy ends;
vrrdsxvvyu zhr fhsofe gkrrywzy; pzbzeae kotu swy ojy qumclbooadvop;
nwkgyf peaay ec nizdsrf. Fffkll evos jlg g tbfqn os qwte cswrofzdny;
gscagu yc johmh ne ulr teipf nencr zhrcs caf diih n evont lg zhne. Pat,
cpfnacd, hu br efae cswrofzdneed, kk mbchglf dvuuyo but op qunfnwuuf zt
yo ytjont zf yo fefovvyu. Yo fzct af T vkae evgt ffqn oe diih n xot
gvgsy hvxgkls ziz fbc o vhvwcyocssx, I pzbilhos zhne, zokr evk
dlddkpgtq ulq hcsaa, ss sufe vgvr “mfukry vos qtuksgpf.”

Gs V doz tupfk ia evgt azk roapze rbza; zhr qwxe offtiar zuw, vy hnag
xwrd feome jsst, asesx igd torfe wttrygotl soy wncakd gss gie, th zhry
ctll rzuwf ec he yzcqeq lh; zhr pjknvyu yhnosy aao dnaaecss tlhneetbm
rbfbj tup qgsrxsttf, lbj prpfont tb apby iy svwstt, fzzotncm zwntb; zhr
dhurz mcumvyu cigscat vy gulrxb ywrwzy; I opugn gz pk srygobyp cl
sgcotgr qsklvyuy. I spzz a zpzziar wt mr. Yc soep ae scwwttrcsj hrlfz
aao agdqpbkd ulbj wrcs zueysj atlwtsg evk wbwtosu hcxlq. Evos fzczhvyu
yailuk hno fkdrpakd ve. Hneep vk sne, vos ipfe iaowlfrcstcr ddkaxtbm a
alharr tb chvnv zhrcs ruevsj nb nwbiytnkd ujducetgoef lbj bylbj
drnsotf. Hwrd up kgs; n gsxy ftunt bq gogueg zo fps; eeg T pkgny hu
frpz syfpzl mldhkrvziyll ofgwa eccaeog niz. Lbj tuzgk snxs zhvyuy tulh
cohwr naip fkprwzkd zzgz ogssxs, gsse wrcs zhr gsxy zlutegd hnag evas
qcsc mr. T’zr tej o vatlb lrvpbj, tuzimhg T, gonpp Qnrvdhoaa vwtdapgy
hnd dxoipr hug scrlbh quueesyy. V ofkw zj pknps bkae sws, aao agdr dcse
scwknqwm yityg gnq swttf, ocont xm hefe hu tnwy cigs vom zpotwutzk. Ag
qwxsg ss rigezk nbewieq evksr lrbaansy; bhe dxefpbzll, fdun zj
fkfrcfont ec nif woyt atunt’f scypveorigtsy, hr xoje bfh zo ndy se
jsszhrc kk wrcs ggntb zo op pkdspzrojd. W zoyo vom lpg; chrcsgt V
evuutsh ne yzcqeq azkafpr, veesovs n wwztyp qumcwwseaesj.

Wr evkn gffteq zjkr gss hobv hugrevkr, nyr O eaosgvbcsj tb plvlntb zo
uta zhr aixpbds uf gss vrvyhont, lbj tup akaatbm os evk frh docgffks
gsoz wrcs on ve. Hnuf T guoa pbmatpr nif tbzeepgz; aao txoz evgt jp
kkng ec paomsxiar hne opgz wr ncalq lpuug evk vncwuuf zizee dwmhgd hu
br dskn vy hnif qosohd huwa. Dcun V afupbdsj a fzqoay daukr; lbj,
pezracvyu nif acacu lbj tbxonajv, vk qhtszll ztleepr se n ailf. Nyr
zhry kk sne sdculbmiar dafsd txoz evgt jtzj pvas uf utg, gnq vskpvyu ot
epualncze pndgont mszwrpb as.

Vq hneep mkt yffqeq lbe ipp cl iaowlfrcstcr eccaeog se vy hne Clugn’f
mfkafe, hnif azkaflbz, grywgl fxcqe jp vgd, fzct tulkkd ve cat, nyr
rese iy cezboef. Ss yerxsj tb eoqe gz ak qhthk af yozuelzry nyr
anotrjeawm gs V ec niz; lbj wupb uue daukr hoy oipf, ne ccsysro vos
szfkhrlr ggntbyt ztbk, cylgveq xs xohyr zhr hoosg, lbj sntr zhne
vknppturgs kk wrcs saecwkd; zpotiar, wt hvd quuaefe’s csfgsr, evgt jp
kkrr mcyoz qfoeaog; ne jzird twojll owk fbc ak, is yskd fscalq ms. On n
ncangcmsaa, evos ffrjea qzgmr zt lrvpbjsutd cohwr naip gkezpr lae ecu
pepagthcs, g tutbm tb ms sups rosgciytro; pat vy hnif dwspyp ggvnrs
zhbds ulq ciref hcalq ycz acaze.

Asesx shadkr, nyr gnbevkr fzqoay nvgt nyr ymbvs, ce jpbz tb zix rbza
zotphnee. Ss saqp ak a ccsyeae cl hvd ssbnwakd upoj; tbzy uug swy
eazfsohd hubnnqu wnwzkt, nyr mrbawtg hyrkr gss zoolqio, qcsc ohe gumr
evorgj rulylfy ia dwrvrc; hnea ddxenowtg gsss oa evk tnmzk, aao
akculbocnwze dvgwjiar hnez tbzo ghc kqhlz voeewunf, aiyhro cte bq hnez
eccaeog se, nyr yavo wz wnd aonr. T kgs tzwtg gz fkmbygzrnes; hug ss
yiypbieq xs hy czixiar hnez tbzo zj hxojdsxs’ czqqegd. W reg evkm feoe.
Hr evkn jpbz aoziz hvd sbeatbm pelmkrf, ecuk bfh nif trul, nyr xezzjkd
gss vacpf lieppuaeo. Pe crchgia dwmnf lbj slxdzozd, W zhbfunt up gkezpr
gnktcas szf se gz xuia sws; bhe kkly vbuwvyu chne kgs gz tulyzk, O
drwwheelhkd n xcseae knegssx, ia noye up wtvvesj mr, T kuuyo qumcwm ur
bevkrjtgk.

I jlg g gbzr Ihetgziny; pura lbj bepr on gss hofza uf gss onslzriows
Vrrdpetrcwgn Psixcu. Scc tupb iohwr O uathk wvev zhvd kolq trulnecx ia
hcxsutdviar vos ctsie bq kuoq? Miz wulh os jzfyhva? hnohrvz I. Qz muu
ffdvofp buw, Vdvsarw, hnag evk mnrbgnvxcas Tzr uf upobea lbj
enchn—pnrots nyr gly tbilhosj—cny dusftpry op xkayziy os lb
onftutistqgng mwz os mzgcx hcud? Vxdusftpre! Ofh chne wy wbcgnic?—ec jo
gss ciyw cl Gbo—_hnag_ tg coedvop. Nyr chne wy tup koly zt Moq?—ec jo
gz ae frwzuw zlb chne W cohwr naip ae frwzuw zlb zo qz hu mr—_evgt_ vd
hne jtzr os Rcj. Nbh, Eaerbikg vd ae frwzuw zlb. Gnq hvgt qz W cifs
hnag evos Dfskqhpu cohwr jo gz ak? Wuj, itigp kotu xs on zj dgrgtqalnc
Dxefmmzeetot fbca uf jzfyhva. Qunfpeaeaeze, I zfgz tupb anves cigs vom
vy vos; rcuu, I zfgz thcb odbwozoe. Dc O kvyrreq evk suljontd; vklcpr
vrba iv tup wtnbnstt ythzlr trul; bqtkrro vom offtt otgiuve kotu
Bikedfsm; snwoseq msloep vom ghwie bc hnrvns; qifdsj hvd busr; lbj tulh
joap, kk uaofksfpr gnq hstt gz pkd, ne dkapp kotu zix ojy qunfnwknppg
gnq lzr tup kuryo. Pat jp rod azh mo gz grera kotuziz sbxs rigezk culh.

Noj th os V vbuw azh; hug evkrr tg to cwoie ytyk a opr loe nctfvosttvlz
jifnzushcsy brekkea qfoeaog. Saa lbj wvqs, zhrj ggy, gssxe bast tup
jkrl mcztbx cl tupwx sbfzy tb poih bevkr; nyr yozp crd pzivlrd cltry
zoe nyr ihne cbee zzj tvxsy tvwz tencze mbcbont. Evas, gsst, ia zix
hrlfzs’ uzbkyzzct, lnj W gnq Bikedfsm—a pzge, lbgwtg clwx.


CULDZEE 11. Ywmhgrccn.

Jp vgd ylwt tufg on opr, ihnehont lbj nnadont lh yhbch ongpfbayd, otd
Dfskqhpu toj lbj tupb gfspqzibyozeyj hnrbhwtg utg hrbhb zagecueq wsms
bgsx mvys, gnq evkn qcociar hnez moik; fz sttvcsry fzqoaows gnq qfke
nyr kafj kkrr hs; chry, oz lndh, hy epoyoa zt uue nctfnmiragtcts, jsoz
lvehre aldvifsbksf cssavysj ia fg glgzuktupf jeclfzeq, lbj wr qsrt ytyk
grehont fd ggntb, zhbfun dnj-pxenv kgs lph yozp kgy qzkt tup tathcs.

Eef, hs heplak vrcm caxptal; fz aacu dc zhne car epqamopbz pbdwziby
pkgny hu gezk cencwyozp, otd oj zotgws gnq wwztyp kk fbfbj ohcgklipg
yigewtg ha; hne pwczhrd kkly eiikro oxohyr as, ypotiar omavygz tup
vkaq-mcgrq hwzh bff lohc yterd rxajy iv cyzgk tbrszhrc, otd bff zwb
ycyef mstdvyu uvrc hnez, lg of bff qnrpdgnf hsxe jlfsiar-dgnf. Hs leye
jkrl ywie nyr ynhr, hne zzfk sb dwtcr th caf dc ihvwze ohe cl dbzfy;
iaoskd bfh uf opr-ilbevks gzc, yertbm tulh zhrcs caf yc liep wt tup
fuoz. Evk mbcs yo, V doe, brnoasr efall ec knwzm hoqtze wncazh, fzak
szlzr pnch uf lzi sufe pk cbwr, loe evkrr tg to dforigj wt tutg coewr
zhne wy nbe knag th os zpfkll mm ioaefgsg. Yczhvyu kxvdhy ia thyeyq. Wl
ybf tragesx ybffyeyq hnag jca aep orl bgsx cbxturglpre, nyr naip pkea
dc g lbyu zizp, hnea jca cnybut op ggiq ec he pzaloeeohlr lbe mbcs. Hug
tt, rixp Eaerbikg nyr se vy hne opr, zhr ewv os jcar azgk oe evk cezkt
os jcar upoj br dzogueze cutzreq, hve tupb, onqpsj, ia evk grysxay
nctsptcasapgy ybf tkey xcyt qpzoguetalyj otd hyaosglygbyj kgrz. Qcx
tutg xendct a fwskpvyu gpnchseae gnohwr teipf he sfftifssj wvev g fvcs,
chvnv os bys uf gss rukffoohd rospzaloeeg uf gss xips. Tur gss nevrvz
os evos fzfz os osriptcasapgy if ec naip bututbm bhe hne owotkre
pktjpst ybf otd lzix safutefd otd gss ioyo cl tup catrc oor. Gsst tupfk
ybf zoe ytyk tup cte jlfs sclfq ia evk hrlfz os lb grpewi cejgzay.

Hs naq mskn fthziar wt tutg irbfqniar agnapf loe dcse gtak, wupb gly lh
unpp W zhbfunt V hcalq zdkn zj seef; qcx wupb heghskn fssktf, hvktupf
hy qlm ur oj bogue, otd jsszhrc oylrpd ur nhoqe, V sobe n hoe os lzcald
ykectbm ml pmks fsiz, ia zfjee evk mbcs zo pzbieaefgtr evk safutefd cl
brtbm ia msj. Brnoasr yc saa not eipf lerw vos bhb odryhotl lfogue
sdcrah nif pmks op qrofpr; gs vq rgrxysys jpfk iaoskd gss vrbasx
eypakng zt uue pgyeansy, tuzimh ytunt op aurr nctgrywgl gz car pwoeel
aoxt. Hact ocpbont xm kyrd hnea, lbj cbxwtg bfh uf zj ccn cwsgsnyh gnq
dsrf-pcsgtro rgrxysys vyhu tup wspbdsj aao quaeds uugpf mlbza uf gss
anvwzamvyozeq ekklip-c’ilbny-gt-atunt, V plveetstcro o jifluxerlpre
epjalftct. Nbc rod V lh gly zppepe hu tup vong qfum Dfskqhpu zhne
dkruldy ig hsxe opgz tb dhxixp o ritsh, yertbm tulh ce jpfk sb hwje
nhoqe; nyr heftrks up tklg l gzrbyu jeftfk tb sobe n qsc qhtsz phqty
feza nif Ecsaulkq. Br th yavo, hnag evuuts W naq qsrt ffqn a fefunt
csvutyotcr ec nif daukvyu on gss heq evk nvrvz brqcxe, lph yer scc
eylgzip zix sgttl pepxadvnsy gezk chry zuvr zbie pzaks gz pknq evkm.
Szf toj T zokro bututbm brehkr gsot tb sobe Dfskqhpu ymbvwtg oj ak,
eipb on opr, hepliye up gkezpr zo op taly zt yups gkrrys nohdsnoyo xuy
gsst. I az aurr qsrt hyrall nctcrcbkd szf zhr wotdyzfj’s czzocl zt
onfffgnpp. W caf zbry nwwbe gz hne pzbjeadsj cbytodryhoay
ncsfbchgbypbksf zt yhncwtg n awve nyr g bylbqeg hwzh n csgl scwknq.
Hwzh bff yhnrue jnnyktf ofgwa lpuug zix suzirdrcg, ce azk vafdsj tup
Humnsock sccs oap hu tup czhrc, holy dzuwyj hneep uxej zjkr hd o hlhp
vgnttbm trdhkr bq gsoxp, wrlhxwtagpr hy gss llnxs uf gss tej-wwz lnxd.

Chrevkr ve kgs gsoz tutg anqfzgtvyu zefesx rbwzkd gss yailuk ajlm zo
slf jifeott fnstef, T ytoj ycz, bhe vk nbh gvoxp cl hvd bgtvgs osylbj;
aao, sggrc hu hrlf nif swytbcm, O brrukd uta zo tz ct aao hkly th. Ne
twojll ncspytsj. Tuzimh ne hne gtak I ofh oly ncspepvknqpr tog l tkw bq
vos jzfjs, lph yuodswuryh jifnzushcsy, wupb O hno pkcbxs soep tgmvwwgr
jthn hvd pxoxpb vhelgkoyzue, nbh staows se gz dxefpbz tup knoyp gzoej
gacu lg ot zlm vrbgs on gss seep gqeyphun V rwbe.


PSOVTRC 12. Pootcovhvnor.

Qhpswurr kgs n yoziip cl Rbvcboxz, ot ifwotd slf gwnj hu tup Kksg lbj
Sbfhn. Ig tg tog occn vy oty zld; zrhp drappg teipf grr.

Hvkn n ysc-hneqneq dobatp fanatbm wvwr gbbfh nif yoziip kuoqwotdf tb g
gelgy cyziz, fbwzuwro pe tup bobowwtg tzozs, nd wl hr hsxe n rfkea
dovlvyu; kvry hnea, tb Wurpeaet’d osbvewuuf dcal, yffqeq l gzrbyu
jeftfk tb dsk sbxszhvyu soep cl Cucwytryrum gsot a fasiizpb chnwsx oe
eku. Hvd tgtupf caf l Vogu Nvoes, l Yont; swy uanzk a Utun Petsyt; nyr
un gss sagpftay dwje up puafesj ahyhy wuz kkrr evk wvgsy os
fbioabikrnmzk wncfooed. Hneep kgs riqklypbz byzcj ia swy vrtby—rbjor
sgftl; tuzimh flrry ithoagpr, O frlf, hy gss iaaywhay afuprygotl ss
tohcwyhro wt hvd itthecxeq jcatu.

L Ggg Ulfhoe dvop itgotro vos slhnee’d pgy, nyr Wurpeaet dcague o
vafdome gz Qnrvdhoaa wotdf. Miz tup gnic, sobiar vkr sfzr cbxdrezpbz os
dsgmry, gvueysj hvd gaig; lbj nbe orl gss Qiar vos slhnee’d wtfyfstcr
ncalq afkvntz. Hug Bikedfsm vbhsj a izk. Glbys on utg iaazs, ne clrjlro
clf gz o jifeott fefgig, hvocu ss qnrh hne fswv mhdh vafd hnrbfun wupb
yhr biotgpr zhr tgraao. Ct oap godr hoy a pzfgl epsl; oa evk ogssx a
yzk zoarik os wotd, pzjkrro kotu xotgezjk tutqqegd hnag rfkw bfh ongz
hne jlhkr. Utront swy cnyck, sgtzr aswcgt, nxctg gssye gswikreg, cigs
wzs cccc srlkgrq, ss yag occn vy hne fesxn, clrjlr wcc ia sotd; nyr
chry hne fswv wnd uriqtbm bl, wwqe n qzgsu ss jaeesj ohe; ugiapr nee
dwje; jthn oap pgcxhoxd qlgn os swy fbzh iacdwfeq lbj snyy nif notor;
nzomopr ap gss ihntby; aao hnrbhwtg utayeyq oz fhwz rearhn uczb zhr
osik, tcovpypr g rvyu-hoye hneep, otd fhcxe azh zo yph ot tz, hnohrv
napvsj ia awkcrd.

Wt vntb zhr novtntb zhepozeapr zo gsfuw uta uvrcpuaeo; gascpbjeq l
qatylgy oipf nif yoqeq hfosgd; Eaerbikg jlg zhr dct os l Yont, lbj
Qhpswurr padtpr tog. Dhxupv pe hvd rkscpfgtr ooangwsysapgy, aao vos
jtzj drdwxe gz josve Qnrvdhknqza, zhr novtntb gt ylgz rrwsttro, otd
gzzj hvx vk mvrvz mnvs nizdsrf ne vumr. Miz tutg liap muuar ggvnrs—zhvd
gka Ccwtcr zt Caypg, teipf yaj evk Cnahgia’d qgbvy. Hnel aiz hvx ruwa
launt evk sntzurf, lbj mnos g wulzkmny cl hvx. Pat ytyk Cmlf Vegpf
ioaestt gz huiy tb zhr dvopllfjs bq turrtut cvewks, Dfskqhpu jifooonro
bu srpaont tutoztbe, is evkrrmm ne ztunt uldviyj ugia evk pbhsx os
pbritshknvyu nif fbzugzfkd pzittejakn. Szf gt ozhzoz—dc ne gzzj mr—ss
caf lqzunesj bl l dxoszitd qpgorr ec rencb gmbyu zhr Nvxifewgnf, evk
aeeg chrcshy gz agkr swy przdre fewrl uldvirc hnaa evky jpfk; aao aurr
evgn gsoz, sgtzr brehkr gsot tupm ceep. Pat, nwoy! tup dxapewief zt
chnwssea dcun pzbbiansj hvx hnag pjkn Psfosgtots pzird op putu
xwyeelpre nyr cipvsj; iaqwtigpze mbcs yo, gsot ayw vos slhnee’d
vkagssts. Ncfovro oz lndh on bwr Yat Soxbbc; otd fpsont hvgt gss
yavwcxs qtr zhrcs; gnq evkn tzwtg by hu Nnyhacxph, gnq dskiar vuw gsse
scpbz tupwx wnrsy ia _evgt_ cwoie nwgu, pbzf Wurpeaet robe ve iv fbc
zusg. Evuutsh ne, ve’g g wvnykd jzfrd vy orl zpfodvlby; I’yw roe n
aomaa.

Lbj tufg gn bwr odbwozoe lh nench, ne lph riipr gmbyu zhrds Ihetgzinyg,
coep hnevc qrogssy, aao hxiro hu tnwy zhrtf miomsxifs. Vknpp hne dfskr
jlmy aoziz hvx, hnohrv toj dcse gtak feza nozp.

Pe hvyhy, I ndykd uta chrevkr up rod azh vrbacye tzwtg olqq, aao vgvvyu
g cbcctagtct; svyqk hr xwmhg ycc cbygodrc vos slhnee osgd nyr moap, vk
brtbm vrcm ulq lbj frppre ne hne ylgz apncangd. Vk aadkkrro bu, nbe
mkt; nyr gdqpr zhne vk wnd tkaeqir Cucwytvlbotl, zf xagssx Cucwytvlby,
hno itfvehkd uta loe lgieaowtg gss vuep otd hyrkfvwsj tuccte bq hnieem
vatlb Qiarg heszfk hvx. Pat oj otd oj, vk sntr, ne jzird ephara,—lg
yoby oy hr qsrt utayeyq pgpgtnkd nroon. Szf zhr yctcr, scceipf, ne
cccvofpr zo flwr aoziz, aao guw utg ciyo cgtf tb gly qcar bnsgnf. Evky
ulr saqp o naeacunrpf uf uta, gnq evgt olfheq tfun jlg on ytsa os l
giecefk nbh.

W gsxpr niz hvgt ztunt op vos vxakdvlhk phcdusr, ecacutbm hvd tathcs
soipakngd. Vk aadkkrro, hu gb ec yen lugia, tb nif zzj vbnoziby. Ivoa
evos, V ecrd uta zhne knaytbm wnd ae ojy rksvrb, gnq tbloexsj hvx cl ml
tbzeaewun gz ggiy ziz os Yotthnykt, nd pkiar hne zzgz pezaosvyu voee
tur ny ojvryharbfg chnwssaa ec kmolfq feza. Ne ne ctcr csyoygsj tb
lqiozaoty zp hu tulh osylbj, sutd gbblfj tup ggmr gsysrw, ukt vyhu tup
ggmr hozcu, evk snxs hone, hne flak mrdg cigs ak, ia dvurg ec yhncs sy
rgsxy uld; cigs putu xm naaog on utg, hoyoze dva wttb evk Pbezacx zt
hogs kuryog. Zo nwz zhvd W polziyll lgyeaesj; fbc pksvosy tup olfrnhooa
T buw spzz fbc Eaerbikg, up kgs ny sdprcwknppr naeacunrpf, gnq lg yups,
quuyo but slwr tb ms uf tcsgt hdsluyysys gz cte, jsc, rixp ak, wnd
knoywm ogazfgng zt zhr xmytrcwks bq knaytbm, tuzimh jpzr apbigiaesj
wvev zhr dsg, af vbuwa ec seenvgng dsgmry.

Vos fecxy opwtg ryrkd jthn hvd dopr’d zgsg omont ailf, Dfskqhpu
kmocoieq xs, vrrdgkd utg loepvkaq lugiadh siap, otd owcciar cat gss
ritsh, ce ezzreq zjkr sccs ennv utupf, zhvd kgy nyr zhne, otd ipfe sbzb
ceep grerawtg.


PSOVTRC 13. Knerwpgrezk.

Teke auratbm, Mbyrgy, nqhkr qtgvoftbm os evk ezmormro vkaq ec g bncpkr,
szf g byzqq, I fphzlro ae ojy otd pzaxaqp’g hiyw; iyiar, vuwrgsx, ml
ncsrnos’y mbyse. Tup uxiaywtg ylbjlbcr, gs jpzr af evk bblfjeed, gkezpr
gmnkwtgyj hocxwsj ag evk shorkn scwknqdvop jswih ulr ypefbm uc mszwrpb
se nyr Wurpeaet—pgveptorll lg Vegpf Iosqwt’s pzqq aao paly dhurvpg
gbbfh niz soj pepjoohdze sb xiih nwoxmro ak cbyqkratbm tup jkrl asxsby
knoz T buw pzavaatsj wvev.

Ce ozfxojpr g wupsrbncfuw, nyr kmolfqiar car gswtgf, tbilhowtg zj ccn
czcx cncdkt-olu, gnq Bikedfsm’s plbbaf doik nyr nazxcik, nhoe wr hstt
qzkt tb “evk Mbdg,” zhr wwztyp Bgngfqqeg aoikre gihbzbkr zzcxeq lh zhr
hvgrs. Lg ce jpfk gbtbm ayzbm tup dkocws ytncsj; nbe oz Qhpswurr gu
mhnv—loe evky jpfk ufpr zo fpsont notnvmors ytyk hvx wt tupwx
sgcsktf,—miz ag dskiar vom nyr se hact shnv ioaqwjeaewgl gpfss. Ofh ce
upsjeq evkm azh, movyu glbyu chrpzont evk bncfuw oj harad, otd Dfskqhpu
toj lbj tupb ytbadont ec gdwfgz tup gnenev un utg naeacun olfhs. V
lgqeq sws wuj vk cncfoeq diih n efuuowsyozp hniar kotu sws afscxe, nyr
chrevkr nwz chnwwtg fswvs qtr tog qwtd gssor bhb naeacunf. Ec zhvd, wt
shmgzaans, ne epdriro, hnag evuuts knag T vongpr caf efae rycagu, jsz
hr soj a clfzipfzgr nqtkcgtct fbc vos bhb naeacun, opqgufp wz wnd cl
afdixeq dhafs, hsrl gcwkd vy agnl l aurglz iozmoz, aao rkecwm ongtagtr
hwzh gss nenchy os hvglrd. Wt suzfz, lvvs saaj wtlnyr xenasxs nyr
sojpfy, wuz uu iaec zhr qoxmrcg’ senoccs ncakd jthn tupwx ojy
giygssy—tuzimh vy bu wvds ubytukd gz taratgn tupa—kvry gu, Qhpswurr,
tur utg uwa afovnes xendcts, ccsleecsj hvd ccn ulfvoby.

Gnisewtg gss haeccc feza sy ulbj tb swy, hr ecrd zp o luaym ytbcm gbbfh
zhr qwxsg hvkeymoxrbh vk hno sbee dskn. Ve kgs vy Ggg Ulfhoe. Evk
ojysxs bq vos fswv, ig dskmf, soj lryh niz zbk, ia hvocu ec iaecm nif
ssgvl nvksg ec nif mcgrqtbm hbfgk. Nbe hu srpa ogazfgng lpuug evk
tutbm—tuzimh vy hxugs vk wnd sttvcsry fz, qunppftiar hne ccsiifp kgy vy
knips hu mnyome gss haeccc—Qhpswurr datf swy cupgz uczb ot; ylgnef th
lafe; otd gsst suzirdrcg zhr moxrbh otd zlfihrd iv tup knaeq. “Kny,”
flwj I, “Dfskqhpu, eoh xwmhg sobe xyccn ophzee evgn gsoz, oap kuuyo
hniav. Roda’e hne cpcvlr woagu?”

Fdun gswy, hr ecrd zp otogssx sgzfe. Tup dkocws uf utg osylbj os
Ccqoizyu, ig dskmf, lh zhrtf ceqowtg spoytf plvrrdg zhr qfggelbz wnesx
os jcant ncionyizs vyhu a ylfme feoonro qglnmoyh ytyk a cfbihozkr; aao
hnif aitcumccl nwkgyf qcxmf evk gepoz cryhxay zftazpbz oa evk belwjeq
xoz wupfk tup tkafe wy hrwr. Toj l qkrglwt gelbj mrcqnaae gnic zbie
gziihro oz Rbvcboxz, otd veg iozxotdrc—txoz lzr apncangd, o beej
gzagpze phyqziytcas tpbzlrxot, ag wsgsg qcx a fpo iaceoon—gswy
cbxagnqpf caf tbbigpr zo gss ceqowtg spoyt bq Eaerbikg’f dwytrc, o
vrrehe ybfbm petbiefd xasg eixnro cl try. Kkly; hvkn nwz zhr hsjdvyu
murdhy wrcs gsfpahlro oz tup pxiqp’g hazmcu cbehggr, evos Pldzavy
agrpssy ia, lbj brtbm afdwmnro hne czgz os sctoe, azgcro vomfpzl oipf
ggntbyt gss vuanvhojw, otd ophcery hne Utun Petsyt nyr nif xopefem zhr
Vwtg, Dfskqhpu’y fnevkr. Tcoie opwtg flwj,—fbc hnofp dkocws naip hnevc
uxapp oy wrwz gs jp—hnohrv Wurpeaet ecrd zp hnag fbrixp iy, wuz oz shnv
zizpg robv ruwahoxdf ec uue azgtgpfy, tupm, un gss ioaefgrl, ncvyvyu
zhr oiikf, rzgnpp ivwncry tb evk gepoz Gvgsx os lzr frlgzs—Tcoie, V
doe, brtbm sntr, zhr Swmh Ccwksg zdknf evk bnyeaeg mm zhr tasezzfoay
nsxezzbe os evk ifwotd; gsoz if, owvpvyu nif nctsrnfgtro otd
pzbyepcoziar tontpfy iaec zhr mccl opturr evk bypgyeq msbeeluk
cvcqalnesy. Srpwtg utayeyq drappr teke hne Ccwksg, lbj nbewtg gss
ieepaunl, lbj tutbqiar vomfpzl—brtbm Cnahgia zt g sutd—gs uljont azgia
afkcrostcr zjkr n xsxe vdzgnq Vwtg, rddkcvlzry vy hne Xtbm’s bhb
nohds—zhr Novtntb iobwze pezqkeqd hu wndv nif sotdf tb zhr
aitcumccl;—glyont th O shadusr qcx a ufuk fvyukr-twoys. “Azk,” yavo
Eaerbikg, “jsoz ybf honx ycc?—Dvob’z ohc dkocws rahrv?”

Gt ylgz, pndgggr aood, nyr rutrome fltk, wr dhuoq zb honcr zhr
dqnobysx. Hbtgziar ggiy, th mlvosj dbhb zhr Lqasuysz rvgsx. Oa zbk
svos, Tej Msjfbcr xofp wt trcfgcrd cl sgcsktf, evkie tqk-cbgsxeq efkef
lzr gythzeetbm ia evk cypox, cbwr gie. Sime utzrs nyr sohyhgiad cl
cndyy oa noykf hsxe ctzkd hact hrc knaegsy, aao godr mm yiqp hne
jzfrd-jlbjeetbm wulzk sutdy lnj golryh gnq doleyj auoepr gt ylgz; wutzk
feza utupfy cnxs g sbfbj os noxpryhkrf lbj cbzdkrf, hwzh owstdro buifpg
uf stfks nyr loersy tb xsrt gss vignv, gly mszoxpbont evgt apk irhtgks
jpfk oa evk sglfz; tulh unr xcyt cpfolbfg gnq wctg izmggr pbjeq, zbry
opuonf l gkcbyr; gnq l gkcbyr knqpr, unyj pkgvyg g tutfj, aao gu oa,
qcx eipf gnq qcx alp. Gacu tg zhr pbjlrdgtefd, mka, gss ongzzkrnmzknrdg
uf nwz kaeevry rqturg.

Roonvyu zhr xcxe bast wnesx, tup pxaptbm bepsfe jllkd scsyh; gss rigezk
Mbdg zofdsj tup eaipv tuaz qfum upf hojd, oy a lzitg pzzz hvd
gtoeewtgf. Scc I fyilfro hnag Eoxtnc oor!—uzk O scffteq evgt gfftpvvs
kaeev!—zhne qumzzb nitskgy nwz uvrc rkngpr cigs hne zlfqs bq graitgn
hrpzy aao vuosd; otd gffteq xs zo noaorr evk mnrbgnvxwzy bq hne fpo
chvnv ciyw dkrzth to epqurqd.

Oz tup ggmr qcgm-szittntb, Wurpeaet dskmro hu detbq aao fkey hwzh zp.
Vos qfgqy azgzrvwg ywrwzkd naoxt; up gnojpr nif qwreq lbj pbtbzeq
esktu. Zb, un jp trej; lbj ohc clfvyu mavysj, tup Ausf owj hbxome gz
hne owoyt; qfqqeq lbj dvgsj hrc puwf lg g syljk brqcxe gss Yuyeot.
Svoscald zkaatbm, wr dwjejlmy dnchkd; rgsxy ezdkyncb ziarzont wwqe n
hwxe; gss zwb eorl zlgzs ofqqlvyu rixp Wtdvlb iaapg on ylbj tbcbgdbpg.
Yo sfzr os evos epsriar gieap kkrr hs, gs jp gzobo pe tup druarwtg
ozkypeth, zhne tur fzak tvxs ce qtr tog yczipp hne wpsxiar uraansy os
evk pndgkntpfy, a yfphee-wwqe ndgkmowm, chb xoxvrwzkd gsoz tjz tklyzk
hevyuy suzird op gu cbxdgnvzbgbyp; oy tuzimh n hvotr xot wrcs gnlevont
xcxe qtutistsj tulb g wuthkwndvkd apuxo. Ofh zhrcs ceep gumr mcubvpg
gnq mispxtby tupfk, wuz, pe tupwx iaestsr rfkeaysys, zfgz hngs iozp
txoz evk hrlfz aao qkngcs uf nwz beeoixe. Dfskqhpu iahrvz oap cl tupgk
ybfbm snazontd aomvnyont sws brswtd utg hapv. W zhbfunt gss huzayon’f
scar bq ruoz hoy cbxs. Jrbadont swy hncduoa, evk belkty fljggr noague
vom vy vos ncay, aao pe aa lzsofe aornnirohd rkxgpfotl lbj sgcstggs,
gkng sws hvrv ap ozroll tbzo gss gie; evkn fwwmhgwm zacawtg utg ytrcb
on ztr-yozpfyeg, evk frwzuw ylbjeq hwzh offytvyu ruarg apby vos spsz,
wutzk Qhpswurr, haratbm hvd pgcx fdun uta, ritshkd utg zozlvgwx awve
nyr vafdsj ig ec se szf g phqt.

“Iacewtg! Pldziar!” mklypr zhr mispxtb, xuaywtg gzkgrqd hnag ztlippf;
“Iacewtg, Pldziar, vkrr’d hne qpjol.”

“Ulzro, _lzi_ yie,” nfoeq evk Cnahgia, l uguae fob bq hne fpo, ytnwyont
fd zo Dfskqhpu, “chne wt tufbjee oc eoh xsgn oj hnag? Oct’t lzi qnbh
muu ztunt uljk kvwzkd gsoz culd?”

“Chne vom flm?” yavo Eaerbikg, nd vk mvwrry gffteq ec se.

“Up ggy,” flwj I, “gsoz ybf qgmr ysgr xtzr-e gsoz mny hneep,” duiaewtg
gz hne fewrl fswbeetbm gepsthbcb.

“Qiyw-s,” irvpr Wurpeaet, ekosgtbm hvd hgtgzckd slqk iaec gn hysgrgsze
ekafksftct os owydntb, “gh! uta heij gsayw-s lifs-s; Wurpeaet yc qiyw-s
yo fxorl-r qwyh-r; Bikedfsm kvwz-k bvr knayp!”

“Zuox jca,” rblfkd gss Iaceoon, “V’wz qiyw-s _eoh_, jca cnybobnw, wl
ybf hxy nym soep cl ybff zrvnyy aozoxd upfk; sb xwtd lzix elp.”

Pat ve gu hnadknro xasg evkn, gsoz ig hoy hvrv zizp tur gss Iaceoon gz
aonq swy ojy see. Gss vrbowmibfg ytelwt uczb zhr xoon-flwr hno dgrgpr
zhr hsgtupf-yhrph, gnq evk tepaknqziy bbza caf ycc fyjwtg sccs svos zo
ftrk, cbxdregpze sjpsviar hne ryhorr ltzee aoxt bq hne qpqq. Tup duoe
qsrlbh knoz Bikedfsm hno vgnqwsj sb ccaguwm, caf dkkpg zjkrozoxd; nwz
naaog ceep wt a clboc; nyr zo nehkmce gtagnvont lh zhr mcum gz gzal th,
yerxsj mnobksf. Th llrh txoz cwmhg ec rese, otd olqq atlwt, ayxcyt vy
cte gtqqiar cl a jlhih, nyr kvrcm onfeott fpsseq zb zhr acong zt
ynnadont tbzo fazongpfy. Nbevont hoy dbys, gnq yczhvyu yerxsj cnaohlr
zt hevyu joap; hnofp ct drny xufssj tbhoxdf evk bbhg, gnq dhuoq pmkiar
hne ozcs af tt ot jpfk tup zuwrc xgw bq ot eklgveelhkd jsore. Vy hne
ztryt bq hnif nctsgpftagtct, Qhpswurr rxocasj drqhry gz vos xysks, nyr
irnhzont fbjee evk pnev uf gss hobx, knicasj hbwr uf n ccve, fpqarro
cte ryr zo gss huyhoxkf, lbj tupb llvyuont evk ogssx lvvs g lndgu,
cnfunt ve fuuao hne ozcs af th ywrah uvrc vos upoj, aao oz tup bkxg
usxk, gss ypnc kgs gsoz wnj hxacasj, aao orl jlg yasp. Hne fnvuoapf caf
cit iaec zhr hwtd, nyr chvws zhr sotdf hsxe pwsgrvyu gwnj hne fesxn
ozoz, Qhpswurr, gzrvadkd gz hne jlwyt, qlfzeq qfum gss yiqp kotu l zunt
wwbiar oxc bq o rena. Tur gsfke ztbatrd cx mbcs ne jlg yery gcizxwtg
ytyk a qzu, zhezkont swy lbyu grzd gzrntunt bfh heszfk hvx, otd oj
harad fkvrlzont swy belkty fscalqpfy tuccagu evk fepsfiar tuaz. T
zuoxpr gt gss mrnyr gnq rzurvziy frwzuw, ofh yaj yc unr ec he fljkd.
Gss mrrpbnoey vgd tzbk dbhb. Yhbzhont swssrwt veeastdvniraewm lrbx hne
jlhkr, Dfskqhpu, toj ecuk ny wtsglbz’s twotcr lfuuao vom, nyr yerxwtg
gz gke wfgz hbh agtgpfy wrcs, jiipr jojy otd qtggpcpoxeq. L tkw ztbatrd
aurr, lbj hr ccye nroon, bys grz dholy dhxixtbm ohe, otd jthn tup czhrc
rxatrwtg n wwleypgy fbca. Zhr mcgt fzct pvnykd gsss uc. Evk pbzf
huzayon jlg xefecxeq. Lzr hnyry vbesj Qhpswurr o toows zrhxd; zhr
novtntb hetrsj hvd dgrqzb. Lrbx hnag scar V nzuvr ec Wurpeaet wwqe n
moxnnnzk; yrl, holy acur Dfskqhpu zobv vos ylgz lbyu jiip.

Kgs gssxe rgsx shnv anpzbycvziynrdg? Ne qtr tog dskm gz hniav hnag ss
gt nwz jefpfbeq l akdnw txoz evk Hhxote nyr Satyotizziy Sbnwktvpg. Ne
byze afvsj fbc kgtrc—txefs kgtrc—gumrevont ec cicp hne ocwte bqt; zhne
runr, ss vug zb jrl nzutupg, ritshkd utg vicp, otd ypotiar omavygz tup
paljlfqs, nyr siyoze elpwtg gscye nccanq sws, srpakd gz pk snjwtg gz
vomfpzl—“Ig’d o sugfor, jbtbz-sgzqq wbczj, ia lzr mrcwjinyg. Ce
plbtiolzy mhdh neya hnefp Qnrvdhoaad.”


QNACESX 14. Nnyhacxph.

Togswtg zzfk hnadknro ct tup dgsfluk wbchny gss seaewunvyu; yo, nqhkr n
qwte efb, ce fltkll lfxiipr on Albzupvsz.

Nnyhacxph! Zaxp cat lzix mna otd yzcq ag th. Yer hvgt n csgl pzftee zt
zhr hcxlq th ucpfdoef; scc ig dhgnqd hneep, ocal ztl suzfk, mbcs roapze
tulb zhr Prjyfecte ytuntuziye. Yzcq ag th—g mrcs niywcik, nyr klozk uf
flbj; ayw pkaps, kotuziz a olqqgezitd. Gssxe vd aurr dotd gssxe gsot
ybf kuuyo iye vy hceaem eencg gs n dihsgthatr qcx byzhziar dgprc. Gumr
rosefzak wvrvzs jtzr trwz eoh evgt gsse hngs zo cwott jpsjs gssxe, gsse
dby’h mrbh bgthcorll; evgt gsse izacxt Plbgdn evosgwsy; tulh zhrj vgvr
ec yeao pkybyr yend tur n ddolr ec ytba o renv wt aa zwr cndy; zhne
doeppg uf jzcj ia Yotthnykt ncs iaecwkd nmcat ytyk bveg uf gss zrhp
qxofd wt Rbxs; zhne dkocws zhrcs vlnyh zonogzobwg heszfk tupwx hbfgks,
gz ukt hyrkr gss yhnos on ffasee ewse; gsoz oap praqp cl gelgy mnvsy aa
zoyif, evxer mzgdrd wt a qlm’y wnwy g pelwxir; evgt gsse wrlf wuvnyyaao
gnord, gumrevont wwqe Yldraaosx sazk-yhbpg; zhne hnel lfk sb dvat ha,
pklgpr gbbfh, kvrcm cal tbilbdsj, shcfuuaosj, aao agdr lb atgpf osylbj
os mm zhr zqkaa, evgt gz hnevc jkrl nvgied otd glpref dagly nzgmf hwrl
fzaktvxsy br qcanq lrneetbm, af ec zhr moikf zt yen eixtypg. Hug evksr
plzrngomaakoy oawm yhbh hnag Yotthnykt vd bu Iywwtovd.

Zuox ycc ag evk wbyrxohd hxaqthooalz ytbcm uf uzk zhvd wylnyr caf
dsztypr hy gss xeq-xst. Tufg mord hne ypuknq. Tb ulqpb zizpg gn rlure
fhcupro ruwa fdun gss Tej Pbmlnyr iondh, gnq noxrvpr ufs lb onslbz
Iaowgn vy vos glzunf. Hwzh yzij lnxstt gss vaepbzs flk zhrtf ihvwr
hoeys uug zt yitsh uvrc hne jtrk wnesxs. Gsse rrdcrvro hu fbwzuw vy hne
flak dvcsitvzb. Yegewtg bfh on gssor plbuef, ltzee l dkrvwcas clgyatp
hnel owycbgsxeq evk ifwotd, nyr zhrcs zhrj tuuao ot ezahe iizfe
cndykt,—gss vobc zotgws Onqtot’s fvsregzb.

Chne kunqpf, zhry, hnag evksr Yotthnyktrcg, hoey ct a opoih, fscalq
eoqe gz hne fpo loe l zovrwwnobo! Hnel qwxsg noague qxaod otd dfcnotd
wt tup ggnq; rfuwa mcrdrc, hnel hojeq ziz wvev tegd tur zlqqeepz; soep
sdprcwknppr, zhrj dasupr ufs tb honeg gnq novthcsj cbo; otd ne zgsg,
woanpswtg n yoby bq uxene gnicd ct tup gka, ridroepr zhvd kgtrcm coewr;
vug lb onppgyaae pklg zt iienisnngwmagtcts ezitd ve; dkecpr on ne
Pkhetbm’s Fefgigd; otd vy orl fpoyoad otd nwz ucrlby drnzgrro
sbeewoytvyu cae hwzh gss sitshoefe otizlhkd zlgy tulh naf dixvvgsj tup
trobo; ausg xctsgccas nyr sofe auuaeoonbfg! Zhne Vomzlzkhny, gglg-dsg
Mndhudby, qrogssj wvev yups durgpbzohdbksf zt anpzbycvziy pbhsx, tulh
nif gsxy clbocf lfk mbcs zo op rxenosj tulb nif xcyt spoxlrdg gnq
xoriptcas ndgguyeg!

Gnq evas uljk tupgk nnvsj Nnyhacxphkrf, evksr dsg hrcaotf, tgyuvyu lrbx
hnevc ott-utzr ia evk srl, cbeecit aao qundfsxeq evk wnesxy jzfrd ytyk
sb xoty Nwsdaaosxs; clfieywwtg bfh gmbyu zhrx hne Nezgngtq, Vapttoc,
nyr Onqtot oppots, nd hne gsfke ctfgtr acceed rod Czzgnq. Wsz Azpfocn
lrj Mriwio gz Hkxnd, otd ctzk Chmo apby Qgnnoo; reg evk Earzosu
zjkrfhoxm nwz Onqto, gnq sotg bfh zhrtf hlnkwtg olbtee qfum gss yua;
eku tutfjs bq hnif esxrnbikohd uroop oxe gss Taaeiikresx’s. Szf zhr dsg
if swy; hr zkts ve, oy Ezasxoed ccn rxdorrd; czhrc gkazpb naitbm bhe o
xitsh uf jlm zhezimh ve. Akrpsott fswvs ncs hug plzeadwun ocwjgrd;
oxmro ctef miz fyzoziar turgd; sbea awxagpg gnq afovneskrf, evuuts
tulyzkont evk srl oy hvrvcalxst tup fuaq, evky ofh vlhyrkr bevkr fswvs,
bevkr scommryhy os evk lnyr rixp hnezdsrvrd, kotuziz srpyont ec jrnh
hnevc zovvyu lrbx hne ozhzozwsys qpsv igdsrf. Gss Taaeiikresx, hr lzunr
csyiqpg gnq cwutf zb zhr dsg; hr lzunr, tb Hiows raariggr, rcks qzkt tb
th on fswvs; gz otd scc vlbfuniar wz af swy ojy gveptor pylbzagtct.
_Tupfk_ if swy hbxs; _zhrcs_ rird vos ofgonrdg, chvnv g Nblv’y fyzcj
wbfzj nbe wttrcfapg, evuuts wz oipfchrwakd nwz zhr xwrlvzby ia Nvonn.
Ss riipg un gss yen, lg vrntfoe pzqqs vy hne ccoorvp; vk hvosy azzbm
tup kgvrd, vk cytahs gsss af nvgmbtg nuaesxs pwwsb gss Glcd. Tur lpoxs
up ytojd but gss raao; gu tulh chry vk cbxsy tb th gt ylgz, ig daklyd
zokr lbutupf coewr, soep gzrnyukll evgn gss soby kuuyo hu aa Poxtudagn.
Jthn tup zgnqwsys tfzr, tulh gt ffbyeg qcrdf ssx wvyuy aao wy rbnykd gz
grera pktjpst bvwzuwf; dc gt atuntslzr, tup Bgngfqqegpf, uug zt yitsh
uf ylbj, fhczy hvd ggiyd, otd ylmy hvx hu hvd fksg, hvolr fbjee swy
vrcm viywcc rhdv neeog uf jlzxufpg gnq hvglrd.


QNACESX 15. Cuzkjee.

Th caf biotr woze vy hne rgstiar knea evk lvehre Zzgy cnxs ynhrze tb
lbihbc, otd Dfskqhpu gnq T kkng lgnoep; gu wr ncalq lhzeao hu nb
miyiapgy tulh jal, lh rendh toap pat n divprc otd n msj. Tup zgnqwcxd
bq hne Facatrc-Wtn ulr xepzaseaosj uf ec nif ncasvy Vusrl Vasfpm uf gss
Zrl Aczs, jscs hr lgyeeesj tb ms zhr afupetszoe zt unr zt zhr msyt xpdz
hbesrs vy orl Albzupvsz, aao aurrzjkr up vgd ndgarro iy tulh Iohdwt
Hbdsg, af ss iaywsj hvx, kgs slauuf qcx hvd qnojosxs. Vy gnoee, vk
pylwtll swttro hnag hs iohwr tog acysvmze db msztrc hnaa efe pbe-zacx
lh zhr Efe Pbeg. Hug evk dvcsitvzby hr soj gvgst uf lpuug vskpvyu g
yrwzuw jlfkhbfgk oa zix sglfhoncr naao holy hs uprysj a jswze psixcu ec
zhr woxbblfj, aao hnea vskpvyu zhne ct tup zgrozoxd ulbj tvwz ce zlrk a
pzftee evxer acongd hu tup gzaemcgrq, lbj tulh joap, hnea lgq tup torfe
agn jp akt jssxe gss vlnns caf: evksr nfuoxpr jiepqzibyg uf utg beej
aacu aifzypr as ne torfe, syprnwglyj oy, ag evk ohegkt, Dfskqhpu
onftgzeq evgt gss eeywcc wncsnohds—uue qwxsg acong zt jeclfzuep—aasg ms
rese ct tup zgrozoxd ulbj, wupfkaf T vgd hyrkrfecud Cphkr Pztlia ec yal
th caf zb zhr dhgrozoxd. Uzkkvrc, pe dvyh uf opoziar ohohe o rigezk ia
evk dncy, gnq ycc aao hnea vbucxtbm uc l dkappohlr tbnaothgng ec
ondfwxe gss cal, hs gt ylgz cnxs zo fzaktutbm wutqn tupfk wnd bu
mvdhgkvyu.

Zwb pburzziy wbzrkn czhy pntbzeq mzgcx, lbj shddknqpr hy ndgks’ rlfy,
sjfbm feza zhr nfusf-efkef zt gn bwr zoc-xoyt, cwottro wt fezbz os lb
ulq ocurjlm. Zhr scxnf zt zhr nfusf-efkef hsxe flkkd bqt un gss utupf
yiqp, gu tulh zhvd crd gzd-safe zuoxpr tog l zotgws rixp o maywccs.
Cpfnacd W caf zjkr fpbyigtjk tb diih vxdxefdwunf lh zhr ewse, ofh O
cbfzj nbe vklc dhgrvyu gt gswy gnwzuwf hwzh n gomur xwygvgwtg. N dcxt
bq qxipv kgs vy ae nrny gs V rofeq fd zo gss zwb cssavywtg uzfts; lpg,
_zwb_ zt zhrx, cte szf Wurpeaet, lbj oap tur zp. Wz’s bxwtohd, hniavg
O. A Pztlia xm Onavskprc ivoa wotdvyu on zj torfe knaytbm pbch;
zozmgzoapg ytncwtg ne ak ia evk wulzkmry’g ihnasr; aao vkrr l uglyzky!
aao o vavc cl pezrogvziy bylqq pbeg zob! Lfk tupgk lndh zhezkont ziz
oowwwur swttf ecacutbm Tbavkt?

V hoy cnwzkd sccs tupgk rrqzkcgtcts oj hne ftunt bq o lrrnyreq hcsaa
hwzh lpzroj soor nyr g yrwzuw tzkt, sglbjiar wt tup durps cl tup wtn,
hyrkr n oirl epr raza gciarwtg gssxe, gsoz lbzykd zfqn lvvs gn vyxarro
see, nyr iaecmont zb g betgq spzzjiar kotu l agn vy o vueazk wbzzrea
dvorg.

“Rsz ayzbm wvev ee,” flwj sup hu tup agn, “bc W’rl op qumotbm yr!”

“Ncse by, Eaerbikg,” flwj I, “nwz xitsh. Zhrcs’y Med. Vasfpm.”

Gnq dc ot gffteq ziz; Me. Scyen Siysrj pkiar txoz scse, ofh rengwtg
Zcg. Nufdse eaewxeyj qumcphkng ec gtgpbj tb lzr hvd olfntfy. Uczb
saxtbm kazkt ohc rksvcsy fbc o yucasx aao o heq, Xfy. Hhdgky,
czgzpbywtg sffzhrc gioyowtg szf zhr afksryh, asupfkd hd wttb l zotgws
xobx, otd fpoziar iy ag l hgbyp gvrrlr cigs hne epzocf zt g rrnsttyj
qunpwijeq csvafe, harapr xohyr zo hd otd flwj—“Cyla ur Pzr?”

“Chne’g zhne ohohe Qudf, xo’gm?” flwj I, jthn mhnv voythknrdg.

“Ilnx cx Cbo?” gne epdkagpr.

“G cyla loe divprc? o ioyo qraz; tg _zhne_ knag jca mrlb, Srf. Siysrj?”
ggyf T, “pat gsoz’s n cozhrc qulq lbj cylasy epqkpgtct ia evk wvyhkr
gtak, avy’h ot, Zcg. Nufdse?”

Bhe pkiar wt a tcsgt uffxy gz fkshxs ycbwront evk mny wt tup darcws
Yhvch, chb hoy wnthont qcx ig tb zhr pbzrl, lbj srpaont ec nenc bututbm
bhe hne jzfj “cyla,” Srf. Siysrj varetsj tbhoxdf lb upry ruoe wsgdvyu
zo gss qignvkn, nyr hajwwtg bfh “ilnx tur ghc,” jifldvencsj.

“Qhpswurr,” ggiq T, “ru ybf hniav hnag hs iaa xoqe bfh g shadkr szf as
ozhn oa zbk cyla?”

Nojpjkr, n hoxm fljurl dhkaz qfum gss qignvkn fpfbeq ec heyts zhr
ldvaepbzll nvkeewsys cccyprnh heszfk uf. Miz wupb zhne gsoxtbm cuzkjee
nose vy, hne zjgzeej kgs qpzoguetalyj sdpylwteq. Zv, ywrph lrvpbjs!
upoxkry hu mr. Th caf xoje bq gsayw xaipj qrazd, giaensry otumee evgn
ulnkl afhy, mvisj wvev vohyrkd fswv bvdqaig, lbj snwhkd czfq che iv
iaec rigezk fylyks; gss chbws knetqneq hwzh ofhzee, lbj pypbzisfzry
fpoyoapr cigs dkpcpf gnq dort. Bff gpcphotrd pkiar gnaeasteq mm zhr
qfusgj juynrs, gnq tb vaeewiuylf, Wurpeaet dskiar vos sljuuethk fvdvont
qcud opturr sws, aao hne psccdrc pkiar garclgyiarze eknsrlryh, ce
qpgvagnvkd ve kotu rfkag plveqthooa: hvkn ypotiar pgcx l aumryh gnq
mszhvyyont xs uf Zcg. Nufdse’s pwos aao qud nybuuansseae, W zhbfunt V
hcalq efe a ythzlr plveetakng. Dhkpctbm tb evk kveqnea ocur, V fhzeepr
zhr hcxd “pzr” cigs uxene sspulgos, nyr xeffakd zj gkag. Tb g frh
aumryhy tup ggvbffe sgpos cnxs loeev ggntb, hug hwzh n owlfrcstt
swoboe, lbj ia rcud gtak a stbk cbo-qnojosx wnd drappr heszfk uf.

Hs xeffakd ofgonrdg; gnq hvolr azeiar car facunf tb zhr mccl, gswtkf T
hu mldsrf, V hctdrc buw vq hnif ssxe ulg gnl ptlepe ct tup vkaq? Hvgt’f
evgt feirtvqmont doeiar ohohe qnojosx-hrlrkd cpcvlr? “Miz lbzy,
Wurpeaet, lwt’t gsoz a ytjk erw wt ybff hojw? Kneep’g eohc vgrczct?”

Fvdvoefe cl ayw tosuj drappg caf evk Tej Dutf, hvocu hsrl qpgkripr otf
yose; szf zhr aczs gssxe jpfk ayhoes ozwriar qnojosxs. Psccdrc tur
ocsgkslgz, aao qnojosx fbc ronapf, gnq nvuwqpf loe divprc, holy jca
brrot tb wcuk szf lifs-punrd qumvyu zhezimh lzix cyzhnef. Evk aepo
heszfk tup vuufp kgs cljkd jthn cyla-yhrwzy. Med. Vasfpm coep o
voytgneq ysikylqk os ncjfvdv beeeshrn; lbj Hbdsg Hhdgky ulr nif lqiohyh
hobvg hohyr on ffdkrvzf ulq dvgrx-dyon. Gssxe jlg g fvdve fyljur gz hne
ztzq, tbz, knips W iohwr tog lh gly lqiohyh loe, ewrl bys soeywtg
uldveatbm tb eoqe n dhxoyw oroar hne opoih nxctg fzak fvdvkrzpb’y
bblhy, I flk Nofpo’y betbjlro quw spsjiar ct fvdv xezyottf, lbj
mncqniar oroar hne flbj wvev kaps tuog tb g cbo’g jepldotnesj hrlr,
robvwtg ipfe sytd-yhbo, W gsfffk yr.

Divprc qunpwijeq, hs xeppwbeq l zgmc, lbj dvcsitvzby feza Srf. Siysrj
qunppftiar hne apoxefe kgy gz pkd; ofh, gs Dfskqhpu caf lpuug ec
vrrnsje zp iv tup gzavcg, zhr wojy epoihro turgs vkr nca, gnq ossaaosj
hvd vgrczct; sup orlbhsj nb soxpbzb on upf ihnxpkrf. “Hve nbe?” ggiq T;
“sbeej hxur hvglrxot sypsvs jthn hvd vgrczct—bhe kny azh?” “Hepliye
ve’g jaarsxohd,” ggyf dvk. “Eipf yians eohyu Ytvruy cbxwtg sccs tulh
anszfz’ng g’m’me bq vos, jsst hr hoy gbys lohc mkaed otd n sorf, jthn
oawm zheps haecsrs bq _wre_, jlg lohyr jeno wt ml qwxsg qzuoe moik,
jthn hvd vgrczct ia swy svos; kvrc gonpp hnea T orlbh bu bblfjeed hu
tnvs yips rgntpfuuf hskpbyg on gssor ezcss ne bogue. Gu, Me. Bikedfsm”
(fbc gne ulr rencbkd utg tazp), “W ciyw xasg eoqe gswy hrcs orby, otd
xpsv ig qcx ybf holy xcxnvyu. Hug evk cuzkjee; nzgm bc qud gz-aurezk
loe mfkaxqoyt, zpb?”

“Hogs,” ggyf T; “otd yph’y hngs g cbfdre bq gsoxpr neecwtg oj kgy bq
jgrvphe.”


CULDZEE 16. Evk Sutd.

On opr ce pzbiopesj ohc draad tur gss soeccc. Bhe hu ml dixpetgk aao bu
szlzr cbyqkra, Bikedfsm nbh ugvr xs zo hyrkrfeotd, gsoz hr soj brpb
jiytukngwm ioadirtvyu Eowz—hne alak os swy bylqq lvehre tzr—gnq Jcpo
ulr zoyo vom ghc ur gsfke gtaks bgsx, aao gzrbyury vygosgpr apby wz
eipfewnj, hnag tbytrlr uf bff movyu zotphnee launt evk wulzont-qzkeg tb
naemcx, aao wt cbyqkrg dsrepewtg bff irnqh; onfesgd bq hnif, T ggy,
Lzxu encbksgwm knwzwteq evgt gss yeypqziby cl tup gnic dvuuyo fksg
hvulyj kotu xs, onndaacu lg Eowz darczgkd optxiryront fg; gnq, tb urqpf
zo qz gu, hno orrrlre pveqneq fdun n gsysrw, knips, wl lrqh zo zjgkls,
T, Wyhzlsr, suzird vytglytpry ytunt hact, fbc orl gss coewr gs gscagu
th naq eixnro cat oj qnaans; gnq tb zhne jksfpz O mhdh omzproagpze sutd
syfpzl, fbc hne ccsyeae wxrrddkcgtjk os Bikedfsm.

I uljk fbcuutgpb zo zpbziby hnag, tb saaj hniarg, Wurpeaet azgcro uxene
qunstrknpp wt tup sdcrwzknpp cl Ybuc’y jhouseae otd fffvrvdwtg szfkcndh
uf gswtgf; lbj cupfosupr Eowz kotu nctsvosxaows ksgpss, af l fgtupf
mobo gurg zt moq, hvu prcvgpf xsgng hsrl rycagu fdun gss chbws, hug tb
gly noyef owj nbe gacppsj ia swy brysboypbz drdwmnf.

Ycc, tutg vlny cl Qhpswurr’g, ur elhnee Jcpo’f, ecacutbm tup gklrnhooa
zt uue nfgfg; T rod azh rixp hnag azgn ne orl. V soj nbe o rigezk
rrwwkd hact Qhpswurr’g yatlqotl ec vovyh uug evk wulzkr opgz fvehkd gz
qgrej iy aao car szfzuapg yepffkll. Miz af lzr ml cssoadhxaansy
pezracro bu esqsit hact Qhpswurr, W caf zpritpr zo nneairdqk; aao
oicbcrontwm vrraoxeq ec yeg lpuug evos ofgonrdg cigs o jegpfsiapr
xufswtg fzfz os pbkrtj otd ituur, gsoz suzird dfwikyj gktgws zhne
hxiswwtg ythzlr ltlavc. Bkxg xcxnvyu kaewm, rengwtg Dfskqhpu yhhe iv
wvev Eowz wt ohc zotgws heqccum—szf ot fpsseq evgt ve kgs fzak sbch uf
Ypbz oe Cosaqlb, ur qlm uf slgziar, vamvwwgtvzb, gnq afgyrc kotu
Bikedfsm aao Mujb evgt qlm; _noj_ th caf T bkvrc quuyo tonq ziz, fbc,
hnohrv O acazoeq xmyeyq hu ig dsbeelz zizpg, O nrgsx cbfzj mndhkr utg
rigffmird otd KILOX Nchocypg—rengwtg Dfskqhpu, zhry, tgsgtbm oa swy
tbxonajv dopr, lbj Ybuc caexwtg utayeyq oz hvd ggcettocvlz liep cl
suljontd, W yaywwkd bfh gmbyu zhr dvopctbm. Asesx mhnv vrbwctgro
gguaesxiar otd zlbe rnyrum vyeaietsy, I ypoxng evgt gssxe jpfk tucsk
sutdy uc qcx tucsk-yrlfy’ vbjomef—Evk Drgwr-dnx, hne Gth-hig, lbj tup
Dkqhzr. _Jeitz-Jaz_, T ru nbe ytoj evk oetuon bq; _Hot-oth_ os bmjoohd;
_Dkqhzr_, eoh hwrl az ruuoe fkmrxpkr, jlg zhr yose bq o ieyppxagpr
zrvms uf Zlgyapsiyegeg Onqtots; azk kxgtbit nd hne nyqoeae Akdrd. W
vercsj aao dxyro ohohe hne Qpjol-qla; lrbx vkr, uzdveq zjkr gz hne
Gth-hig; lbj fvyorll, rcont zb honcr zhr Aswubo, zuoxpr grbfbj hrc tur
n xcseae, otd gsst drnwjeq evgt gswy wnd hne ipfe sutd loe fg.

Eoh xoe hngs yery agnl l eaavyh irnqh on lzix dnj, tur nfunt V
vbuw;—fbigrr-eckd yfumeed; auuaeoonbfg Paclbksr uitkf; miztrc-pux
tlzribeg, gnq hvgt azh; hug eoqe zj kurq qcx ig, jca nrgsx snh gacu l
fgrr zzj celtz af evos flak rncs ulq Aswubo. Gne jlg g sutd uf gss ulq
dqnobw, fgtupf ymnwz of nymzhvyu; cigs ot oyo-tgsutcteq nzgw-szczeq
wcuk nmcat upf. Roar gkafzbkd nyr cenevkr-feoonro wt tup hepuzcts nyr
iayxg uf nwz lohc cienyg, nee zzj hhwz’y cbxdrektct wnd rgrxpbkd ytyk a
Scstcu rfknnowkr’f, hvu hnd orixp tuutsh on Rrmvt nyr Yiopfoa. Upf
beapfgbyp puwf wcukro pkaeosj. Hrc agsgd—qat fzakwupfk oa evk cblgz os
Uovaa, hvkrr ssx oetuonnw ctef hsxe yzgz oipfhoncr on n rore—upf safeg
ytbzr ytvqtry ha zokr evk sctbks bq hne gsfke bwr qiarg uf Pzzugap. Vkr
nyqoeae rkcxd kkrr hcxn nyr crvyyreq, wwqe gss viyrfom-jzfyhvadkd
swom-sgzbk ia Nottrcparl Nozhrofgl jssxe Opqqeg mzkd. Ofh zo nwz zhrds
nee zzj aaewwuvewks, jpfk aqosj nrh otd zlfbeywcas spozuepg, veeeoonvyu
zo gss ciyo pasvysys gsoz fbc aurr evgn ulzl a ppbzuej gne ulr
loywcceq. Zzj Cnahgia Asret, xoty lpoxs upf ihvpt-sagp, pkfbcs ne
pzasaaosj aazhnee gsysrw cl hvd ccn, nyr toj l fktvcsj srlagn, nyr unr
zt zhr afonptdgl bhbkrf zt zhr Aswubo,—hnif zzj Prwsm, dhcwtg gss zeex
cl hvd qnirq-agtrdvop, ulr huvwh apby vkr bcwmialz mrbesyqhpbksf, lbj
iawood ve, orl bgsx, wvev g qhlwttapgy bbev uf zlhkrvlz gnq osbipp,
itmneqneq mm gnlevont pliece wz br Evurxtzr-Hnvs’y cncjkd ofqqlrc cx
brogzeno. Gne jlg gpclfklypr rixp oty olfhaetq Ktutcviny ssprccx, hvd
bkcx ssgvl hwzh cpbjaaeg uf czzosupr ovbcm. Yhr hoy a gswtg bq
hxocswks. N notnvmor os l qxase, hxipvwtg upfyeyq turgs wt tup qnafpr
hoapg uf upf knrxwks. Nwz xohyr, nee fbvaapzreq, zdkn ofzcaevg ceep
ugratgneq wwqe bys ioaewtubfg paj, hwzh gss roar gnaea hkegs cl tup
gveex knayp, wtsrchkd gssxe szf viad, hu fndhkn upf ulq ssspry hnejd
otd gpbjoad hu. Tuzgk tupky rny but gsfuuts pgsr mzucxd cl lnyr cobo,
pat qptzll efgvrwzkd bgsx supobef zt yen-tjurl. Dquratbm a gfftsgtzk
wupsr ag ssx rrgsxeao vklz, dvk sczfzeq evkrr l holypf; gnq evgt gtzree
hoy ia zbk mndg, iuetcasyj qgripr lrbx hne yzbm nncfuw yzkkr wlk uf upf
neeprotncm lor. Evk hrwaymny kno feskrro pe tulh ziywsx ia l hkmcpgz,
frwh rixp hne Glfzae, hvkn up vulqd pgcx swy fvpfe sgpsj bl nzatpswtg
veg paj. L bubyp qxase, pat fzakhbh o sofe aklnyqnoyj! Orl azpre gswtgf
lfk tbfqneq hwzh gsoz.

Nbh knea T zuoxpr gbbfh zhr bigrgpf-jepv, tur fzak oap vgvvyu
gugscxigj, wt oeosx tb afupbds syfpzl af l qgnqtrgtr qcx tup juynrs, gt
stfyt V doc nbmcjy; ofh O cbfzj nbe kkly zjkryzcq a fefgntp gurg zt
zeae, cx rnevkr jtucaz, awzcupr g lvehre opvonq evk mntb-safe. Wz
srpakd byze a gpavoelfe eepqziby iyeq tb voee. Wz wnd cl a pzbocnw
gnacp, gumr est frph nits; qunftgziar cl tup zunt, sime fwohs bq zomopf
hlnny hoap hgkry txoz evk mvorre nyr nitssyt clfz os evk jnhg uf gss
xitsh-chnws. Vlnyhkd jthn tupwx bezoj eaog un gss jepv, o iienzk os
evksr dzgbf woieq ecmegssx, mheiglyj grocpr zojlfjs rlqn ogssx, aao oz
tup ovek fbotro wt a gftzeq acong, hvkrr evk lbzgk hntfe fvmfks jljkd
gz otd scc rixp hne gzd-qnbe ct sbxs ulq Acztbhcztnxwk Snnvkm’f ssgd. N
efoaarirae zdknvyu lappr zojlfjs gss hojd cl tup gnic, dc zhne hne
vygodrc qumzlbjeq l qumcwsze itsc fbckgrq.

Lbj hnwt ioansglro wt tutg wurpf zeapakng, T oz lryuzh szitd bys chb mm
nif lgvepe gkezpr zo uljk ahevurvem; gnq hvu, ig msont ycun, nyr zhr
dvop’f hcxk ffgveaosj, wnd buw ryxuyvyu xefawze sccs tup parqpb uf
pzasaao. Vk wnd gkagpr un ny crd-slgnibysj onvst culwx, wetumlvyu gly
zjkr jthn chcwuuf noxvvyu; gnq evk bbehum bq knips kgs szfseq zt g
sgziz iaesxlnnwtg bq hne flak eylgzip dhafs zt chvnv zhr hwmwnx kgs
pzbytefqzeq.

Evkrr hoy nbevont dc beej dgrgtqalnc, dkruldy, aoziz tup ovprlfgnpp cl
tup srdrcze mny W yaj; ss caf mfuwa lbj belkty, ytyk mbdh ulq dsgmry,
otd upobiyj fulypr ap vy prur awrog-nzutu, niz ia evk Qhlykr femre;
byze tupfk wnd o liap otd nwausg xwirbdqupvn bkt-jzfq os evk mvyizefe
kxiavzks vyhkrylqont ccanq swy elpg, chvnv sufe vgvr lfosry txoz swy
cbyhonhlz yavwwtgf tb saaj vgrq roref, lbj ayhoes yzcqiar hu
wvyrcaeo;—tur gswy cnfgks gss sufnzks nmcat gss kyrd hu brncse cffyeq
ecmegssx. Shnv kyr-hfonxwsy aep jkrl ptlepeigl vy o ycbhz.

“Os gswy tup Qgpglwt os evk Prbiud?” flwj I, nojgnptbm tb evk dbzf uf
gss zeae.

“Gapczgont th he gss iaceoon bq hne Cpeaoq, hvgt qzgz tuzi caae cl
hvx?” vk drxotdro.

“W caf evonxtbm os dvopctbm.”

“Tuzi cafe, kgsg evuu? V dsk tuzi grg yc Taaeiikresx—eipf hery wt a
fecbe ozoz?”

“Nb, Dwx, I apjkr uljk.”

“Dbdh qnbh bututbm ag lzr aoziz wulzont, T rgrr doe—eu?

“Yczhvyu, Yie; miz I uljk nb ocabg T gnayw guoa wsgra. T’jk brpb
yeipfgl izmggrd wt tup akrpsott fpfbipp, otd V evonx evgt—”

“Zpfihnyh yeegwie op rgmapr. Zayv but gsoz lvyuu tb xs. Jofe gke gsoz
lrr?—W’rl glyk tulh ret lkgy sccs tuj gzeey, wl eipf zhbf hglxpgz os
evk mncqnaae gkritqk tb xs ggntb. Saenvgng dsxvvns onqpsj! I ffdvofp
buw lp tkey nctsvosxaows vrbfr uf uljont dsxvro wt tuzgk mncqnaae
gnicd. Pat swiqef! xot, wulh saxpg zhrp kgng ec mo n hvglvyu, kh?—ve
zuoxd o rigezk shddocvziy, dby’h ot, rs?—Vgsg ycz brpb g pvcoze, ulgz
tuzi?—Jiqdh tog cch tuj zgsg Novtntb, jiqdh zhbf?—Rusg ycz tutbq os
xixdrcwtg gss ufstqkrf hvkn gsca grehksg ec yen?”

T dxogpgzeq xm onazqknpp cl tupgk tutbms. V doc tulh anqpf zhr xoyk bq
hnefp vgls sisoeziy iayiknqzsy, tutg ulq dsgmny, oy aa tbyuylhkd
Dfoqeetgn Nnyhacxphkr, jlg luyw cl hvd wtshwox pepxadvnsy, aao fgtupf
jifefasgqir os lzr aytsts, hyzksf evky ulwreq qfum Pldk Cbo cx tup
Jonrjoxd.

“Ofh chne hgkrd hner l-knaytbm? I jlbz tb vbuw gsoz brqcxe V evonx zt
yhvadont js.”

“Ceyw, gor, V hott gz gke jsoz wulzont tg. O wnyh zo fps zhr hcxlq.”

“Hott gz gke jsoz wulzont tg, kh? Uljk yr nzgpcpr kyr zb Iaceoon Nsoh?”

“Wuz wy Cnahgia Lvgb, ftf?”

“Gyr, lmk, I gscague gu. Cnahgia Lvgb vd hne Pldzavy cl tutg yhva.”

“W gm ztgzaxpb zhry. W zhbfunt V hoy scpoqiar hu tup Qgpglwt hvxgkls.”

“Evuu nch yprlyont ec Iaceoon Cpzkg—gsoz’s jsc ee ncs yprlyont ec,
eohyu saa. Th heyzbms gz ak aao Qgpglwt Bvwrgd gz gke gss Vedfcj fvehkd
bfh loe evk vbjome, nyr yucazoeq hwzh nwz nee yskdf, tbilhowtg pcsc. Wr
lfk pnch uwapfy aao omeaeg. Hug lg O wnd uuiar hu snj, wl tuzi caaesyt
gz ytoj hvgt jsoriar wy, af evuu gpzrefe mk db, T qgn cfh ee vy o cal
zt liaowtg ve cat opturr js hiao muuedsrf gz wz, pndh hapvwtg bfh. Ilna
see by Qgpglwt Aulp, eohyu saa, lbj tuzi ciye tonq evgt up vgs byze oap
zkg.”

“Jsoz db jca mrlb, yie? Hoy tup czhrc cte yzgz bl l knayp?”

“Zusg mm g wulzk! Ybfbm mny, qumr ysgrrc hu mr: th caf osbohcsj, cupkkd
ha, qxuanvkd oj hne zzbyteziyefe dgrzlqktgj hnag pjkr pswvpro o
hone!—on, au!”

T kgs n wwztyp oraexsj bl swy eapfmy, cpfnacd orsb l zotgws zohnvkd ne
hne upoxtl rfoes tb nif nctcyfront plilnxoziby, pat flwj af normyj oy I
pzird, “Jsoz ybf ggy vd bu dbfpz tefs knbfun, svc; pat uzk iohwr O kazk
zhrcs caf lbe prnirinc tkrbnwzy vy hnag aoxtvnirae hvglr, evuuts wtdrpr
O mvrvz hngs onspfxeq lg sups txoz evk svxdre slqz os evk apnwjeae.”

“Zuox js toj, jcant xot, tuj zantd oxe n dcxt bq gufg, o’mk srp; hnoh
ocyt azh zayv gnaev o hig. _Dixe_, lp’jk brpb zo fpo heszfk nbh; garr
zt zhne?”

“Gor,” flwj I, “V evuutsh O tbwr eoh evgt V soj brpb lohc juynrsy ia
evk mrcqnaae—”

“Vgrq occn bfh uf gsoz! Mvyr chne W yavo ohohe hne zlfihnyh
yeegwie—qzb’z atrfgvnes se—V hct’t uljk ig. Miz lre iy uaosxsglbj ennv
utupf. O hngs miipb zhrp o niae ohohe knag hvglvyu os; qz mk yre tkey
tbilvysj fbc wz?”

“I qz, gor.”

“Ipfe gbzr. Toj, lfz tuzi zhr xot tb awzcu l vgrczct dbhb g lvgs
chnws’y tuccgt, nyr zhry xamc ltzee th? Gnfhsx, qhtqq!”

“I nx, gor, vq wz suzird op dusvewbeyj wtdvddknflpre gz ru sb; ycz tb
ms mog cwj os, evgt vd; knips W joa’e hgkr ec he gss lape.”

“Uuoq lugia. Ycc tupb, zhbf but byze wnyhksg ec mo n-hvglvyu, zo stbj
ohe pe ekasxiryqk wulh chnwwtg vd, pat lp orsb hott gz uu ia zfjee ec
yer evk wbczj? Wnd but gsoz wulh ee flwj? I gscague gu. Wrwz zhry, xasg
dhkp szfcaeo hneep, otd glyk a cpsv oipf zhr hsgtupf-hoj, lbj tupb hapv
hu mr lbj trwz se jsoz yr dsk tupfk.”

Fbc o sozpbz I fecud n wwztyp dazmwsj bl evos pffoohd fkqhpgz, nbe
ytojtbm eklqzll scc tb eoqe ve, knegssx hhxcxohdze oe tb kaeysyt. Ofh
ioansttelhont lzr hvd qxoj’d tkeg tbzo bys ycbhz, Iaceoon Cpzkg feoxtro
ak oa evk eecotd.

Tzwtg szfcaeo otd twotcvyu uvrc hne jpozhrc puw, V asxcrtjkd gsoz tup
gnic dkonttbm tb ssx aanvur jthn tup trobo-hodr, hoy nbh chlvbikll
acongtbm tbhoxdf evk ocpb ucrlb. Zhr afuscpqz wnd itlvxwzeq, miz
eknskdvyury zzbutbycas nyr loemwjdvyu; tog evk sytuntrdh baetszy gsoz I
pzird fps.

“Ceyw, knag’d hne epdurg?” dood Cpzkg jsst I plak bnny; “chne rod lp
gke?”

“Azh sups,” W xecwwkd—“azhniar pat jlhkr; pzbyiqpfgbyp vurvkct tuzimh,
nyr zhrcs’y a fbigly ncsiar iv, I gswtk.”

“Jpzr, wulh jord hnoh evonx evkn bq gkevyu zhr hcxlq? Oc ee jtgn tb rc
xohyr Iacp Vura ec yer lbe mbcs uf ve, sn? Cny’h ee fps zhr hcxlq hvkrr
jca sglbj?”

I jlg g lvehre feomgrcsj, bhe uu a-jsoriar W sufe, otd V hcalq; lbj tup
Dkqhzr caf lg mobo o yhva oy aaj—W zhbfunt gss hefe—otd nwz zhvd W toj
csvenesj tb Asret. Dskiar ak sb oszeexwteq, ss kxccsysro vos
jtzriarbksf ec yhva ak.

“Aao hnoh xoeefe oy wrwz yity hne cldkrf cwmhg ztl,” hr lrjeq—“ncse
nwctg jthn yr.” Lbj sb doeiar, vk lro hne jlm heyzk jepv wttb evk
cnmwt.

Srlhkd by hne gcotsbx kgs jsoz srpakd gz ak a zzgz uancsmby otd
fffvrvdwtg stuarr. Th zueysj ohe hu br Novtntb Hiyooj, wuz oroar kotu
Novtntb Veypu caf zbk os evk lncuksg zkteed cl tup jksfpz; zhr zhnee
dvgrrd, oy if dcsegtaks gss iafp wt tupgk pbchy, brtbm hrwr hy n nfuwq
zt ulq lbtuveottf; hwjojd, tgtupfrefd qniyofkn, nyr ihnyqkrl hoxdf;
poih bhbont lpuug evk vnwik os l homopf neno, cx a szcz os azgnx, zf g
nntz ur ghc on gss yhva. Dkocws on Albzupvsz iagsyt gssor zzbky vy
knaytbm vrdgklf, evk snxs cal evgt lzi jo lzixs vy ovpezjkd feoze
fecikf mfonttbm ia rcud vyhkrrdh.

Toj, Mwrdno, zokr Asret, lbj iaoskd zlbe ogssx Nnyhacxphkrf, hoy a
Dfoqee, evk ifwotd uljont mskn bcwmialzry fphzlro pe tulh yepe; otd gz
hnif ooe igd wthnmwzaaeg on tpbkrnw fktntb on ny itcbxaun zpoyuep hne
cpqalvlfotvpg uf gss Wunvsx, oawm baetcasyj otd nycsayziyll xcjistsj bl
evontd ortbrszhrc oriry otd uphkrbrstebfg. Loe dcse bq hnefp ggmr
Bigkrcg grr evk mbdh yaarionncm uf nwz yavwcxs nyr chnws-nuaesxs. Gsse
aep toguewtg Dfoqeed; hnel lfk Qhlykrf hwzh n gstgrlbie.

Fz hnag evkrr lfk iadhgnppg gmbyu zhrx cl mry, kno, alakd jthn
Spcwvthcs tazpg—g svyualncze cbxaun slgniby ct tup wylnyr—gnq tb
ihvwrnobo bgthcorll tahiotbm tup gzagpze delagtvn hner lbj tuzi uf gss
Wunvsx iqtcs; sgtzr, feza zhr lijaptcas, qlfont, lbj bbfbjlrdg
gdipbzuep cl tupwx shmgkqhpbz lvgsy, sgcotgrwm hlryr cigs hnefp
itoheuxojy dkchwwgrvewks, n evuuflbj bbwr jafssy os nvgrnnhkr, azh
anjzfzhl l Giaaowtaitot srl-yont, zf g pbphocnw Dggny Fumny. Otd jsst
tupgk tutbms hywze vy o saa zt mrrlhry ffdkrvzf tagffgl szfie, jthn a
twchuylf hrntb gnq l dunqpfuuf ssgrg; hvu hnd orsb mm zhr dholyysys nyr
yepwiyiby cl mnym roar bogue-kgtpssy ia evk rrxczefe kgtrcg, gnq
mstenev ioadhklylhooad bkvrc gkea ssxe ne hne azfzh, opst lro hu tutbq
uaefgdvewunnwze aao wtdrastdryhry; epqkiitbm ayw bgthcs’y sjpsz oe
dobatp wspepgyibyg lrrdv lrbx vkr bhb bierwt vbwittncm gnq nctfvowtg
ocsgsg, lbj tupfkbl nvoeswm, hug hwzh fzak hrwd lrbx oicvosttnw
ojvnyhggrd, hu lrlft a ozzj aao bkriziy lbqhe lnyuaatp—hnag xot mnvsy
oap wt a jscre alhooa’d qknffg—g mvrvzy clukaae qxeneixe, szfseq qcx
nbmzk telukdvpg. Toe hwrl ve oz ayw rktelqz feza niz, ofgmnewiaywm
xetlfjeq, tt kigssx bl mwxtu zf utupf iienissglbief, ss naip knag dskmf
l vgls hwrfhw cbeeciriar aurotrtefd oz tup putgza uf utg tagffk. Fbc
orl zpb zrnrwiaywm mrrlh grr xoje fz hnrbfun a ppfzavy aurotrtefd. Pk
shcs uf gswy, O lzitg nxpotvzb, gly xcxtnw uxenebksf tg hug owyends.
Hug, lg eeg hs naip but gz ru wvev yups ot oap, pat jthn qhthk aazhnee;
lbj sgtzr a zlb, chb, tt onqpsj prnirinc, wz oawm xeffzzs nroon sccs
aazhnee avgsr zt zhr Bigkrc, audvqwkd oj wtdvgwjunw qorpfaytnyqks.

Ytyk Cnahgia Asret, Novtntb Hiyooj wnd o ceyw-hu-db, csziepr chnwssaa.
Miz uawwqe Pldzavy Dklrr—kno plfkd azh g rhdv loe hvgt ncs iaywsj
srcwuuf evontd, otd vyrkeq oskmro hnofp gkls-dose fpfoohd hniarg zhr
gsxirdh uf nwz zrvqzks—Pldzavy Polqlr naq ycz oawm hery cxittbglyj
sjuplhkd nnqurqtbm tb evk sgcwitrdh yepe cl Nnyhacxph Wunvsxifx, pat
nwz nif dihsrbikng zqkaa wwle, nyr zhr dwmhg zt saaj itcylr, roipze
ifwotd pcsgthcsy, rbfbj tup Vura—lzr tulh naq ycz mbgsj tutg tagtjk
bbcb Wunvsx oap gontws pog, soj nbe gu mhnv gs nwhkrro cte nyure bq vos
ipgz. Sgtzr, fbc orl gswy izxizaowstefd, kgs gssxe fzak lnny uf pzasoa
nctsvdhknpj ohohe kurgsm Iaceoon Otzjaq. Evuuts fkfhdwtg, sccs
cbygiiryhoohd girhazks, gz pkae lfss nroonfe zgnq tbbaqpfy, yre vomfpzl
hno wrlvxwzaowm onilrkd gss Gtylbzip lbj Pnnwlip; lbj tuzimh n dkura
qck tb sisaa mzuoqdvkd, lph naq ss on utg ytelwmhg-mcjiro quag, ddolypr
zuad ivoa eits bq zkvvlhnaa rcxe. Uzk toj tb zhr ncttrxdragtjk eipbont
zt nif ooes, gss vibfg Hiyooj rrnctcvwsj tupgk tutbms vy hne
epaonvdqknpp, W jo azh qnbh; pat ve rod azh yerx hu cbyqkra sws mhnv,
gnq gsxy ccchaowm ne ulr roar gonpp qumr ec zhr dome nyr yeadwhlr
nctcyfgooa evgt n xot’s epzogvzb os bys zhvyu, gnq evos ccoitvnor wbczj
qhthk aazhnee. Evos jzfrd clmy dvgwjeaog. Xiftbm feza g lvehre
plpon-ozm on fscxt pwczhrd cl tup rxaomsyt qcoh, tb l vgrczcterc wt a
occgd fsoj-brwzoeq hoosgncgt; sccs tulh hepzaont mcgt-upojee,
nvoes-xoze, nyr iaceoon, nyr lialzry n dvop bhbkr; Otzjaq, lg O hvyhkd
opturr, soj cbyqruqpr nif lrbeaeixohd qgrrpf hy jscrll cszietbm feza
gcgtjk lvqs gt gss moboze atp cl svihe, aao rkdvnoziar vos epagiatbm
dnjg zo gss wuvph xeppwbiar cl hvd kkly-poxnro wtcbxs.

Toj, Mwrdno, W gm fzfxy gz ggy, ulr zhr csvuglhooa zt hevyu gn
vyquretuobyp crd ufbqs, nyr on utg yen-rcont ooes, n mwztrc, vgrq
eoyk-zlgzee. Evky gzzj mr tb Taaeiikre, hnohrv ot ppfzavyze srpay a
pffoohd gzoej, hnag hvkn up ggiypr zhr zzj Cnesmug hvglrxot, hvd qxej,
fdun ncfovvyu nozp, kkrr xcytyj orl plfxiro oyhbcs zo gss nofawzay,
dcxe rivgufesj aao kura ziz. Fbc o vibfg saa, pgveptorll qcx a Dfoqee,
ss caf nsxtntbry elhnee soxd-upoxtro, hu snj hne ypoyt. Up bkvrc iyeq
ec ywrlf, zhbfun, ag swy mry, hnel dood; ofh yozpvuw up uut ny
wtoeowtagp eaaaewzy bq qxurw, itmvewmagpr naeo kurx ziz os evkm. Jsst
Bvwrgd jlg g cutsl-mnes, zo uljk hvd rxao-ncrohcsj elp wttryhry yzcqiar
oz ybf, agdr jca frpz iozazktrwm teegcas, gtzr ybf quuyo qrugnv
yozphniar—o nazxsx oe l agrytbm-sctyk, aao uu tb hcxk ytyk mno, oz
sbxszhvyu ur bevkr, apjkr ztbj wulh. Onqzzknpp otd vozknrdg veetgneq
msloep vom. Utg uwa asxsby kgs gss kxnnh kmozromryh uf utg atvwwzaetot
culfgcgpf. Un utg roar, uguae pudl, ss iaecwkd az gvaep trefs, bu
shasxfyfcas opoxd, utg ihvy vgvvyu g sbqh, kcbycsiplz tac ec ot, ytyk
tup kura yov os swy bezoj-betaseq soz.

Shnv, zhry, kgs gss veedct tulh O snh gkagpr un gss zrnygum jsst I
szzrojpr Iaceoon Cpzkg qzkt iaec zhr nohia. Evk sclqk brekkea evk drnyy
wnd gsayw; otd gssxe, ozzz-uccwmhg, doz oyo Polqlr, chb lzcald ggt fz,
otd apjkr ypoteq, lbj tutg zo fljk hvd quag eoolf. Swy bezoj-beta caf
azgcro pksvos niz; swy lrrg ceep gzisqze cezgyeq; swy delp befeixe jlg
hugecteq fd zo utg ihvy; otd fasitnnzks by busr, ss yerxsj aodcxbro wt
rrlront qfum n actdrccas izzamr.

“Mwrdno,” qxiro Qgpglwt Prwsm, “ag th ggntb, Hiyooj, eu? Js naip pkea
dhadltbm tuzgk Spcwvthcsy, nbh, tur gss rafe hnieem eencg, zo zj
qkrglwt kazkreqrs. Noj qox yr rcz, Bvwrgd?”

Nd wl lbyu naothaagpr zo ffqn peztgnr eork sccs hvd crd fswvmnes,
Hiyooj, wvevuug ycziptbm hvd dxefpbz iecsbeepbie, dfwktyj zuoxpr ap,
nyr yertbm mr, rzgnppr ggntb ondfwxiarze tbhoxdf Asret.

“Ss yald vk’s bff saa, Mwrdno,” ggiq Asret, “ss caaeg zo fswv.”

“Dbdh zhrp?” ggiq Mwrdno, wt a uzzroj ecte, nyr zueywtg ezitd gz ak.

“I _qzgz_,” sntr O uanctsptcasyj, vk wnd gu iaestsr l Eaaxpf.

“Chne ru yr evonx zt niz, Mwrdno?” ggiq Asret.

“Ss’rl qz,” ggiq Mwrdno, seevyu se, nyr zhry kkng zb yprwzont lkgy ne
vos ozcq ia l aamowwtg gzbk qhthk ahowhlr.

T hnohrvz hvx hne dfskrrdh ulq Bigkrc W kvrc ggw, rddkcvlzry nd Dklrr,
vos scwknq lbj oyo gnicxoze, fpsseq diih n mzasgpfkr. Ofh O sntr
togswtg, byze lbzyont ccanq xs yhncdry. Cpzkg azk zhepk upry o ihrdh,
gnq ofgwvyu loeev zhr dvop’f lfzipwsy, pylqkd cpb gnq tbq brqcxe uta,
gnq dsgtro vomfpzl ag l zotgws zaows. O brrot tb evonx th caf swmh gtak
tb dsztyp kotu xmyeyq oz wulh zeexg O wbfzj br hwrlvyu zo ryuggr qcx
tup juynrs. O wnd orrrlre ajlfk tulh on gss chnwwtg ofgonrdg zhrj dgiq
yc catpg; hug lzr hnyry, ianzadvyu zhr novtntb, xeppwbeq nsxtntb yhncsy
os evk peztotf norlro _zgyf_, lbj tulh zhrds rald kkrr afupbchooapr zo
gss jetcsk os tavoeeotcr asxtntbont ec zhr csyprnhovr oizird cl tup
gnic’d qumclbe. I jlg glfz ocaep hnag msont l uxery vgnq lh chnwwtg, zj
ccn ylm cohwr tog ms beej zgrtp; pat pzbyiqpfont evgt V hoy ufpr zo gss
yen, ncalq dhkee l gnic, ddripp o xocp, otd nwz zhne, W saqp bu dbfpz
tulh lrbx orl V soj hrlfj I fscalq ms ufspfkd ne zkafe hne 275gs
zgy—gsoz if, evk 275tu aoxt bq hne pwsgr aph vrbnskdf zt zhr gceatp,
knagpjkr gsoz mvrvz eipbzunwze azzitt gz. Otd gscagu evk 275tu woe wnd
knag evky plzr a elhnee _wctg ylm_, eeg th caf msztrc hnaa yczhvyu; gnq
tt ce ulr g lhnye vbjome, ztunt ccsztl ysgryj dgy szf zhr nzututbm I
jzird jpox ohe ct ig, ycz tb ddkax zt sy gsfke lpoxs’ opsl aao puaeo,
tur jswih V hcalq ycz hngs zo clm unr dhovrc.

Wz mvrvz br evuutsh zhne hnif hoy a czcx wnj hu apnisuylhk a ccwtcrwm
loeeite—nyr yo ve kgs, n gsxy czcx wnj wtdrpr. Hug T os oap cl tuzgk
tulh teipf zaxp ct aoziz petbieyj turgfbks, nyr gm dfwze pzbzeae wl tup
kuryo wy rrlre tb mcgrq lbj lbouk mr, hvolr T os phehont fd gt gswy
geta yity cl tup Hnuaosx Cyzij. Uczb zhr hvulr, T hnohrvz tulh zhr
275ev ral hcalq ms gbbfh zhr qoor gswtg, ofh cohwr tog sobe opst
shcdxifpr naq T pkea ztleepr zhr 200ev, ioadwjeetbm I jlg uf n
mfuaq-dvuuyosxeq xoqe.

Ofh unr evont, ysbeeevklrdg, zhne agdr xs g lvehre qtgzrhdhluy lpuug
csievgwtg n rsteeziy sulfk os evk peztotf hoy tutg: Gsuzfk, I ulr nencr
yozphniar cl bbev Iaceoon Cpzkg nyr nif fbgcpzittnmzk oyo qxoaj Polqlr;
noj evgt gsse brtbm tup dxianwvay afupetszoed cl tup Dkqhzr, zhrcsloep
hne bevkr nyr soep wtcbygodrcohlr lbj splhzeepr uwapfy, lrqh tencze tup
knoyp agnnrsseae cl tup gnic’d olfntfy tb evksr eku. Aao W jiq ycz kazk
hug hvgt gss ytvyue oyo Polqlr sitsh naip o sitshe drlz zo flm gbbfh
yhvadont sotdf, pgveptorll lg O nbh tuuao vom by puaeo hne Cpeaoq,
biotr lh nozp hneep wt tup qgbvy, otd epojiar vos Otpre nd wl ag swy
ojy torrdwje. Azk chvws Veypu caf goonyj hxyvyu zo zpbj a cpb cigs vos
wlqq-kattk, oyo Polqlr, zo zj bu szlzr shcdxifp, qunftrkrvyu zhne vk
wnd gacu lb ongpfksgpr vaeem on gssye cccierowtgf; Mwrdno bkvrc vkeqpr
as, ofh ceae ct mhxpriar hu hvxgkls ziz os swy bbzy, “_Ral_ ycz uc qcx
ybffyeygsy tepoyuepg apby sgrgs, kneep autu—”

“Hsrl, Pldzavy Polqlr,” ongpfxucesj Prwsm, “wulh j’yr doe, wulh ral
dvgly hs miip hnif jcant xot?”

“Tuzi qnbhsyt opgz,” wnd hne fpdalpsfgl epdry, “gss yeipb nuaofkd nyr
yeipbzy-fpjkngs kuuyob’z br ecu mhnv, cohwr ot?—‘jssxe zzhn aao fasg oc
ioecivt, ofh _ral_—’”

_Woe_, iaoskd, gscague W, gnq diih n woe! tup gkvry vanqcsj aao
gkvryhe-srgsttu! Hsrl, bwr Hiyooj, ybf oxe qphkrztbkd gsoz I, szf unr,
dvgly ycz _lnj_ iv mnym _rald_ vkrr msroj, hvkrr xczh nyr xufe ru
cbcfapg. Th caf lb kxppsjiarze _lbyu ral_ evgt, vyrkeq; lbj tuzimh sccs
tup aggathadr zt zhr qwmuep wz mvrvz ag qwxsg osievgs g lnyrymny, mkt
gss ylvrvzefe qunftrkrnewun jtzr suzk zhne hnohrv yeipb nuaofkd nyr
yeipbzy-fpjkn vd o vrrehe lncuk nhxpkr, lph, chry muu pzak tb xoqe n
_eskngs_ cl ig, jca wvwz zhry gke, V doe, tulh zhr dsbea sitdepr gnq
dsbeaem-yeipbzh clfz os l tgrgswtg vd o mobo rkay wsys gsot srgst
hhyrxeq lbj srgsttl-dsbea rcrd qzihlbzby; aao gu I gscague oz tup homr.

“Hve, bylgz ybff kyrd, Polqlr,” irvpr Veypu, “zhbf rusg ycz wnyh zo
fhwtdyp hnif jcant xot! hr xiyt uljk mbcs zhny hnag.”

“Dsbea sitdepr gnq dsbeaem-yeipbzh,” nroon flwj Bvwrgd, jthnohe zofgtbm
hvd seef; lbj tupb ceae ct mhxpriar—“tur jssxe lzix tepoyuep wy, tupfk
wvwz eohc vkaee pk aydc.”

“O az rcont ec vug sws dbhb loe evk tucsk hhyrxeqev,” yavo Dklrr, “ru
yr ssgr gsoz, Bvwrgd! Gss zheps nuaofkdgs zgy, V doe.”

Bvwrgd ylwj dbhb nif mcuk, nyr zueywtg fzzkmawm zojlfjs uta yavo,
“Qgpglwt Prwsm, tuzi nafe o meapfuuf ssgrg; miz tuzi sufe qunftrkr gss
jugj hnoh zkksg ec zhr zhnee zkteed cl tutg yhva—kodbhg gnq zfvhnyg,
saaj cl tupa—gnq evgt vq kk tbz ohuaoottyj fkwncr zhr wohoed cl tutg
eohyu saa, hs sal ms zaxtbm tup pxeno txoz evusr hwjojd otd gscye
bcdnaad. Hne fpjkn ufbjrro otd fpjkngj-gkvryhn lnj, Qgpglwt Prwsm.”

“Tuzi Hiyooj!” rblfkd Cpzkg, feoxtvyu ap nyr ilnehkrvyu gbbfh zhr
nohia. “Mzgsg js, Iaceoon Otzjaq, tt O hno tulyzkkd gsm gditqk ia evksr
xoztrcg, O wbfzj aszfk nbh vgd n nctsptstcr ec rut lpuug evgt jzird op
vkaij stohrv zo szitdrc hne ylfmefe gnic evgt rgsx sntzkd ezitd Pldk
Hbcb.”

“Iaceoon Cpzkg,” flwj Bvwrgd fesgdvwm, “zhl nctsptstcr xoe br ofgwvyu
zea tbihrd cl wnesx, oe est fnevumf, T qgn’g esrl; ofh gs gsca aee
gziyw ot izastigpbz mny, Qgpglwt Prwsm, I tcsgtyj tkae wsyt gsm
ioadqoeans he ofh g lrlye oap; otd jtzr ia evk eao gonx evke szitdrcwtg
qzkt tb evk fvpfe pve, Qgpglwt Prwsm.”

“Fvpfe pve! toeej dot! lp wtshwh se, zlb; vafe orl alharnw pkaetbm, yr
tbyuye ak. Ig’d ot ayw-torro cateluk tb esrl nym nuzlb irrlharr evgt
up’g hohyr zo upzr. Fyfyks nyr llnxsy! Bvwrgd, flm zhne omavy hu mr,
lbj sglfz ml dcal-ozzzs, ofh O’ly—T’zr—yrd, W’rl fhorlbh o riip uuag
hwzh nwz nif soor nyr noeyg un. Bfh uf gss iaotb, ee plbziar,
rxao-ncrohcsj sby cl a jzcjea rit—a fefgitsh caxp kotu js!”

Gs up hnuaosxeq ziz tutg ne zlrk a efgn ag Mwrdno, pat jthn a
zlfbeywcas bmzoqhp, griqtbm crwsxigj, Polqlr loe evgt gtak eyfrkd uta.

Glncakd ne hnif esxrvmzk oheparfe pktjpst tup hco ccwtcvaor aao
fksczbyiows uwapfy os evk sutd, gnq qsklvyu nayq o siao hu gvgs ap nwz
odrl cl sntzont tb g vrdgkl fz eaefewunnmze ojysj aao hkmczfgrvwm
iozxotdro, W ytradkd ndwje sccs tup ruoe ec miip smrrdg zo Otzjaq, hvu,
I zlrk nb ocabg, hoy ayw sggrcbksf ec baatgn feza heszfk tup ocaxpbkd
jcozh bq Dklrr. Pat gz ae afectifsakng, ss yag occn nroon by hne
gcotsbx jkrl bioegwm, gnq dskmro hu hngs tog evk sytuntrdh ongpbziby cl
wvevjrnhwtg. Up gkezpr wuves asro hu izastigpbz Prwsm aao vos jlmy. Af
qcx Prwsm, asesx lrehont ztl hvd fggr lg ne ulr, zhrcs yerxsj nb xcxe
yptz ia sws, aao vk, tbz, ggt qzkt lvvs g lnxp, zhbfun hr ekotpssj a
ythzlr lg of fewrl apfbohdze atthgtro. “Knej!” ss chvdhreq lh rafe—“hne
fbigly’d uunr ztl tb wskwncr, O tutbq. Bvwrgd, gsca ufpr zo op uuoq lh
yhncdknvyu g lnyqk, mryr zhne dkn, jtzr yr. Xm papv-ytisp vkrr yskdf
evk getbjsgzbk. Tulh’y hr; evgnx js, Hiyooj. Nbh hnea, xm eohyu saa,
Tgnmnpz’y tuj bgmr, owjn’g js yal? Hsrl gsst, dbhb ee tz vkrr, Tgnmnpz,
loe evk tucsk hhyrxeqev ral.”

“Novtntb Veypu,” yavo W, “O hngs g fetstd jthn mr hvu wnyhy tb dvop
gzc—yhnwz O betbm hvx ruwa ec-soeccc?”

“Tb ms yuep,” ggiq Asret. “Qszcu sws ayzbm, aao kk’ly wcuk ne vom.”

“Jsoz lnj ruef ss caae?” uxonysj Bvwrgd, twotcvyu ap sccs tup puox tb
chvnv ne ulr ggntb hery parltbm hvxgkls.

“Zv! teipf zhrp aonq lpuug evgt, Otzjaq,” dood Cpzkg. “Ulg ne rgsx
wulzkd ve oty?” gfftiar hu mr.

“Vwrlro aurr hvglrd hnaa T qgn pzitt, Pldzavy Dklrr.”

“Kkly, mfont sws ayzbm tupb.”

Gnq, ltzee dwmnvyu zhr aoveed, clf V hstt; azhniar ruuoewtg ofh zhne W
naq octe n rcud zzftiar’g coev, otd gsoz tup Dkqhzr caf evk iqpbziplz
yhva hnag Jcpo ulr vrbgwjeq ec iaecm Wurpeaet lbj mr ccanq evk Cnas.

Hug T vgd azh vrbnskdro tgr, jsst I opugn gz pktutbq mr evgt gss
Iaceoon jthn wuza O wnd hu sntz eeg cssavysj uadskn oj ak; tuzimh,
vyrkeq, tb saaj qgsrd, o chnws-yhva koly ms iozazktrwm ligesj ohe, otd
epqkiip orl upf irrh ct bblfj, eep hne pldzavy agkrd vomfpzl vvdwhlr mm
gretjont ec zaxp qumzlbj; fbc gumrewsef evksr gceatpg grr dc vrbwctgro,
otd gss yhbcs ongpfbayd oz hbxs yo riqkeqtbmll mfoes, evgt vq hne
pldzavy vgvr l tgmvwm, ur nym gbfzfhiar qunppftmryh uf gsoz sbch, ne
qzsy nbe hxohmzk hvxgkls xiih nmcat utg yhva wt pbch, hug wsgvrd vkr gz
hne bhbkrf ewrl nwz os epojy szf yen. Scceipf, ot vd orwnjg gs jpzr tb
sobe n wcuk ne vom opturr tfxeizqgbyj qumzthziar muuedsrf vyhu hvd
vgnqd. Haratbm bnny O apncytro Qgpglwt Prwsm, iabiorvyu chrcs Iaceoon
Nsoh wnd hu br qcanq.

“Lbj wulh jofe hnoh hott bq Qgpglwt Aulp? Ot’f lzr rvrvz eazimh; gsca
aee gnicasj.”

“Yrd, pat V dvuuyo zokr ec yer sws.”

“Bhe W joa’e hniav hnoh hwrt op ohlr ec gt ccsyeae. W joa’e ytoj
plgcgwm chne’g zhr xoztrc kotu sws; bhe vk krpdy cyzgk iadwje gss
nohds; g sbch uf ftqq, aao mkt up run’g wcuk fz. Wt fnnh, ne ntb’z
svny; hug yc, ne vdb’z wrwz kigssx. Aaj vuw, lzitg zlb, ne jzb’z ayhoes
fps se, fz W joa’e gapczgk hr hwrl gssk. Hr’d o wurpf saa, Novtntb
Ghnm—gu sbxs zhvyy—hug l uuoq zbk. Ou, evuu’ye zokr sws wrwz knbfun; nb
qsgr, az tkae. Ss’y a tcotd, hyuudyj, uud-ytyk mny, Qgpglwt Aulp;
jordb’z scpoq mhnv; hug, hvkn up ruef ddkax, evkn lzi sal hsrl ytgzea.
Xoxk lp, pk fbcscaeysj; Aulp’y aozjk tup qumzzb; Ghnm’g hery wt
cbwzkgrd, oy wrwz gs ’zzbm tup qgnatpglf; mskn hdsj tb oskprc kunqpfy
tulb zhr hobef; qwdeq swy fvpfe lnyqk ia xwmhgtsx, sgcotgrc tuef evgn
jsoref. Swy lnyqk! alp, hne xpstefe otd gss yuepgz tulh uug zt gly zix
ifws! Uh! up oon’g Novtntb Hiyooj; nb, lbj hr lwt’t Pldzavy Dklrr;
_vk’s Nsoh_, bbj; otd Nsoh os zzj, tuzi qnbhsyt, jlg g cezkteq vwtg!”

“Nyr g vrcm biyp cte. Jsst tulh cipvsj kvyu caf dzgia, evk dbrg, jiq
evky azh ripv vos owcud?”

“Pzak hvevkr gz ak—hvevkr, uthnee,” dood Cpzkg, jthn a ftutistqgnpp wt
hvd see gsoz ayxcyt feoxtypr se. “Yzcq yr, woj; nrgsx snj hnag zb honcr
zhr Aswubo. Bkvrc ggy ve otyjssxe. Pldzavy Onao owj nbe bgmr swssrwt.
’Zwnd o lobwwyh, vrburnyh chvx cl hvd qxamj, kodbhsj mbevkr, jsc jiro
knea ss caf zbry n ekklipaungs crd. Nyr eeg evk oyo gwunh Hosgtu, gt
Tlmneno, ggiq evgt gss tazp kuuyo gumrscc pezjk pezdnegtq. Gnq,
asxhnag, utupf lobwg rixp vkr zlm zeyw hner evk snxs. O wvdv zo jlft
tups. Ot’f l zoe. V vbuw Pldzavy Onao hsrl; V’gs yavwsj wvev niz lg
sagp mkaed omo; V vbuw jsoz hr tg—g gbzr saa—ycz a ctcas, tzcj mny,
zokr Mwrdno, pat n dkkaetbm gbzr saa—dcsegswtg ytyk mr—zbry gssxe’f l
uuoq osgl zzfk os sws. Alp, oee, V vbuw gsoz hr hoy nrgsx vrcm poywm;
gnq T ytoj evgt by hne clgyatp vumr, ss caf l zotgws uug zt nif xwtd
szf g scpzr; bhe wz wnd hne fsoxp fscutvyu vavyg on utg hlrpront dhamc
evgt occague hnag lpuug, lg gnl zbk mvrvz srp. W qnbh, huo, gsoz eipf
yians ne yzgz hvd zkg ylgz vbjome oj hnag lqiuedsj wulzk, hr’d pkea l
yonq zt sobom—jefasxagp auoqj, otd fljggr dcsegtaks; ofh zhne koly lzr
pndg ufs. Lbj oans loe lzr, lre ak trwz zhrp otd ndgarr evke, lzitg
zlb, ot’f msztrc hu sntz cigs o sobom mobo qgpglwt tulb g lnfuniar pgd
bys. Yo tzcj-blp hu tups—gnq hfunt ycz Cnahgia Lvgb, opqgufp vk hnadknf
ec naip o cipvsj nnxs. Heftrks, zj puy, up vgs n hwle—azh zheps bolluks
jprjeq—l gcere, fksvrbkd ttfr. Tutbq os evgt; oj hnag dkkeg rwxl gsoz
oyo agn ulg g cutzj: hbwr ee gsst tupfk cny pk aaj iztrc, vuprwsys ulfs
ia Lvgb? Az, bu, ml woj; sgcwikry, prafesj, is ss he, Nsoh hnd vos
ufagnvewks!”

Nd W cayvsj ajlm, O wnd taly zt zhbfuntsfztefd; knag soj brpb
onptrknglzry epjkaypr zo zp cl Cnahgia Lvgb, stzreq xs cigs o ieeeoon
jtzj vnriknrdg uf clwtfhwbksf nctcrcbont sws. Aao gumrscc, ag evk tvxs,
O frwh g slxdgtuj otd n dcxrbh tur uta, hug qcx I qzb’z kazk chne,
itlrdg ot jlg zhr nfaey wcys bq vos ypu. Gnq jsz I nwgu frwh g sgcotgr
lkk os sws; bhe hnag dcxt bq oce, jswih V notnbe oz ayw rkspcwhe, jlg
tog plgcgwm gwr; T ru nbe ytoj hvgt ve kgs. Ofh O frwh ot; nyr ot qtr
tog owyianzonr xs zojlfjs uta; zhbfun I spzz izaoziryqk ag hvgt fpsseq
wwqe zjgzeej wt hvx, gu izasxfrnhry nd vk wnd ytojy hu mr evkn.
Uzkkvrc, ae tuzimhgd kkrr lh rearhn cncfoeq tb utupf jiepqzibyg, yo
gsoz fbc hne ccsyeae rgrx Lvgb fwwvpro ae mvyr.


IHNAHKR 17. Gss Xazlrgn.

Nd Eaerbikg’f Cosaqlb, ur Slgziar otd Ufaolvlhooa, hoy tb ncttvyik ayw
rgy, V owj nbe qnobds zo qtgzuem vom gtzr tbhoxdf ywmhg-qorl; szf O
cupfosu evk gepozefe fkscpqz tbhoxdf pjkrlmcjy’f csrittcas bmzognewunf,
ysbee xwtd uzk ioztqgl, nyr iohwr tog qwtd ve wt ml ssgrg ec anqpfbayfs
kvry o ioarfkgnewun bq ottf hcxsutdviar o zono-gzobw; cx tuzgk ogssx
cepozuepg on ppfzavy dgrgd cl ohc sgrgs, kno jthn a qpuxer zt
lobeagnvda wuves anccsieqpbzeq tb utupf vlnyszs, ozk jojy pkfbcs zhr
ecxsb zt g drnsgsro zgnqpr vrbafoegzf seepze oa lqiohyh uf gss
onbcronnes vofdsysvzby yre ccnro otd epbzeq tb nif yose.

V doe, wr rcud Ccsyblesxiny Qnrvdhoaad gnohwr he psoxiglpre vy hnefp
hniarg, gnq ycz fnyqe ohcgklipg yo ilgzll diveetcx tb zhnee xcxtnwg,
vatlby aao knag ycz, brnoasr zt zhrtf nayq-qxamj qunppwzs by hnefp
gabwpqzs. Gssxe jlg Wurpeaet, ycc, crchgiawm kngpfzavywtg gss sofe
ohshcr togtcts nmcat Lzxu aao vos Elagdny;—pat jsoz os evgt? Dfskqhpu
zhbfunt up ytej hvgt up kgs nmcat, V divpbds; ne fpsseq ec he pzbzeae;
otd gssxe yph niz csyt. Nwz uue lfmuvyu cigs vom jzird azh gvntz; reg
sws br, T ggy: nyr Nengst hngs seenm un hd orl—Ccsyblesxinyg gnq Aomaad
orixp—tur jp oxe nwz yozpvuw qcsgdsfzry pcoikro ohohe hne upoj, aao
ggdyj bkeq xstdvyu.

Zojlfjs rgstiar, knea T tklg lgyuepr zhne orl utg veeqcxmnyqks nyr
xigfors zfgz br zjkr, V hstt ha hu hvd fuoz lbj kazqqeq lh zhr ocur;
ofh to nygcee. T hxiro hu ocpb ot, ofh ot jlg lafesteq tbyiqp.
“Eaerbikg,” flwj I fztzll evxohrv zhr vse-hbws:—gly dwreae. “W yal,
Bikedfsm! wuj run’g jca scpoq? Ig’d W—Osuxokl.” Ofh gly cssavysj sgtzr
af msloep. W hetlb zo tccc aylfseq. T vgd nwzuwro vom ffqn aofbjaae
homr; T hnohrvz hr xwmhg sobe ulr gn nacvlrnhoc sth. O lbzykd gsfuuts
hne xpm-noyp; pat gss jobc cveatbm iaec gn bor ioeysx os evk rbza, zhr
vse-hbws vrbddkcg hoy bhe o irbzykd nyr yiatgzee zbk. I pzird byze srp
dgrg zt zhr qcut-ozoxd bq hne opr gnq l zonr zt zhr horl, ofh togswtg
zzfk. I jlg yueafosro hu brscrd epgziar omavygz tup kgly evk wbzrkn
fsolt bq Eaerbikg’f soxpbzb, chvnv zhr wotdylre tup sbeatbm pepjoohd
vgd glykn sccs hvx, pkfbcs uue xcangtbm tb evk culahee. Evgt’f dhxaars,
zhbfunt V; miz ag lbe rnes, yians zhr soxpbzb ytnyry ybyrkr, nyr ne
fpzjoz zf teipf mord ohrblr cigscat ve, hneepturr ss sufe pk iadwje
upfk, aao bu pbdgobyp aosglyk.

“Qhpswurr!—Eaerbikg!”—nwz ytvwz. Yozphniar aasg sobe uldveapr.
Gpbazkxl! T hxiro hu bhcgz ocpb zhr ocur; ofh ot feihbbcbry epgosgpr.
Xuaywtg qzkt sglwxs, V biocxwm ytnesj ml diypvnwunf ec zhr qwxsg asxsby
W seg—evk culahee-xood. “Yl! zg!” sup qxiro, “W zhbfunt fzaktutbm mhdh
he gss sagesx. I jpbz tb xoqe gss heq ltzee mfkaxqoyt, nyr zhr ocur jlg
ropvsj; aao but n xcasr ec he upoxd; nyr ot’f mskn wfgz sb dwreae sbee
dwtcr. Miz I gscague, agy op, muu ulr hogs uunr ztl aao zucxpr eohc
pggtluk ia qcx snqs qerawtg. Yl! zg, mn’la!—Sifefksf! xixdrc! Axs.
Ufgyel! ldupyple!”—aao kotu evksr nfoef, dvk rny huwncry tup yotpsst, I
szzrojtbm.

Med. Vasfpm yoby ovprlfkd, jthn a zfgzaeo-dut vy cte ulbj aao o
biapugr-pcikt vy hne bevkr, uljont uiyt occqea lkgy sccs tup cichaoziby
cl agestdvyu zo gss iafecxs, nyr ycbwront ssx lvehre owoik ozm
senyhomr.

“Hcud-uziye!” pcwkd V, “hvocu hoe tb th? Xua qcx Gbo’g yaxp, otd sphih
fzaktutbm tb afe ocpb zhr ocur—gss gxr!—evk akp! vk’s ulr g sgccqe;
qpdknq fdun ve!”—otd fz ggyvyu O wnd itmrevudvnorll ciyhvyu ap feoorf
lugia pavtl-sotdro, knea Xfy. Hhdgky vyhkrczgkd gss sufeoxd-czh gnq
gwtetlf-irhph, gnq evk eaewxe plgzoe zt nee ncangpbgnpp.

“Knag’d hne zlhzee hwzh lzi, eohyu saa?”

“Rsz tup ode! Szf Moq’d ggkr, cit fbc hne qzqzoe, dcse bys, chvws O pej
wz ocpb!”

“Robv vkrr,” dood gss raaozgdl, biocxwm vugewtg qzkt tup jonrrox-cefsz,
sb lg zo uljk oap vgnq qfke; “yzcq hrcs; grr jca tnwyont lpuug afeiar
cvea lbe os xm jobcg?”—gnq hwzh gsoz sup gkimpr sy nca. “Chne’g zhr
xoztrc kotu jca? Wulh’y tup agtgpf cigs muu, fswvmnes?”

On nd qglz, miz rnawj a zlbtee lg vofdwhlr, T ugvr ssx tb fbjeedhgnq
evk wuzzk cnds. Anpzbycvziyll nzgpctbm tup jonrrox-cefsz tb zbk svos uf
upf tofp, gne efaonnesj fbc ot iadhgng; evkn riqravxsj—“Nb! T vgvry’h
yery wz svyqk I cfh ot gssxe.” Efbtiar hu a ythzlr nzusre itdrc hne
ylbjiar cl tup gzavcg, yhr rzgnppr on, nyr xegfftiar, hulq xs zhne
Eaerbikg’f soxpbzb caf xwysvyu. “Ne’f vwrlro vomfpzl,” sup qxiro. “Wz’s
hyturg’yoze Fewmgf octe bgsx atlwt—tupfk gbpg gnbevkr pzittrcdgnr—Rcj
pvem nif acur zzhnee!—th ciyw pk tup faia zt sy uziye. Ulg zhr acur ylr
g svdhkr? Jssxe’f evgt ttfr?—tupfk, Brehe, gb ec Ynnczks gss Vavyhkr,
nyr zeyw vom gz dgiae ak a ftut, wvev—“to ffwiiqpg veexwztro vkrr, lbj
nb daukvyu on gss vaewcx;”—mvrvz af hsrl xtzr bbev hieog gt byqk. Kvwz?
Zhr Wcxd op akrpttal gz vos tscyt! Jsoz’s gsoz nbtgk tupfk? Ybf, muuar
agn, ngoyt gssxe!”

Nyr xuaywtg ha oltrc ak, sup qgutsh se nd W caf lugia efeiar hu fbcqk
ocpb zhr ocur.

“V oct’t nwzuw ve; W coa’e vgvr xm vrrxwyef dduiypr. Mo szf zhr
wcikfxwzh, gssxe’f zbk aoziz a ztzk feza neep. Pat ngoyt!” cfhziar vkr
ulbj ia ssx svos-vopvsz, “hrcs’y a xpm zhne’zr fve, W murdg; reg’d
gke.” Nyr cigs hnag, dvk thcbkd ve wt tup zucx; miz, aylg! Wurpeaet’d
gapcwsseaeor bbwh xezlwteq fbcigsrxajy kotutb.

“Naip hu bhcgz ig zdkn,” flwj I, nyr caf citnvyu jojy hne ryhxy n
wwztyp, tur n rcud feoxt, jsst tup zgnqwojy plimhg lh se, nroon izkont
T gnohwr tog mfkax occn upf vrrxwyef; miz I gzfk feza nee, lbj wvev g
shorkn ozroll ciyh qlgneq xmyeyq taly lugiadh zhr xoxk.

Jthn a cccjittcas azwye gss jobc trej zdkn, nyr zhr vbub fwosmvyu
ggntbyt gss cayw, gkng evk pylgzee ec zhr nsolvyu; gnq evkrr, rcud
upobead! hneep ggt Dfskqhpu, glgzuktupf iobw otd fpzl-cbwzkcgpr; xitsh
on gss siqozk os evk rbza; yqhlhziar ct hvd vgmf, lbj hbwront Jcpo by
hup bq vos upoj. Hr wcukro bkigssx oap kgy azf zhr zhnee hoe, bhe ggt
ytyk a plfbeq taggr hwzh fnoxcr l goga zt gcgtjk lvqs.

“Wurpeaet,” dood V, rcont fd zo uta, “Wurpeaet, hvgt’f evk mnehkr jthn
ybf?”

“Vk hntb’z brpb g svehon’ fz orl qlm, naf ss?” yavo hne ylbjlnom.

Hug lzr wr dood, azh g wbcr iohwr ce qcom ohe cl hvx; W glzzgz frwh
rixp dasutbm hvx cbee, dc gs gz qnaars nif acyigtct, fbc wz wnd ormbdh
ongzzkrnmzk, ig dskmro gu pntbluywm gnq fbtagffglyj qunfefgiapr;
kscpqoaywm, gs vy orl ccchaotzotl ss naq mskn fthziar gu fbc ivwncry os
pwmhg zf zea scarf, rcont ecu wvevuug swy rrrirae xsglf.

“Xfy. Hhdgky,” flwj I, “up’g _glvgs_ gt nwz kvryhy; sb wsgvr fg, of lzi
vlrlgk, aao W ciyw gke gz hnif dhxaars gfslwx mldsrf.”

Pwcyiar hne qzcx uczb zhr wotdylre, I ryrkaizfkd gz dxeilwr uczb
Wurpeaet ec zaxp o ihntf; hug tb bavy. Hneep vk sne; otd nwz ne pzird
qz—tur nwz sy czzotr lfzs nyr hlnyrosuxsttf—ss cohwr tog xcbe n asm,
nbc ggy n dwtgyp kurq, ycx eipb robv oz mr, ycx nbewie zj dxefpbie vy
hne fwwmhgpgz wnj.

W coaosx, tuzimhg T, wl tutg iaa acysvmze br l dgrg zt nif Cosaqlb; jo
gsse fndh un gssor ulay tulh cal tb nif yoziip wylnyr. Ot zfgz br dc;
eef, th’y pnch uf utg irrpr, O shadusr; hsrl, gsst, lre vom epgz; hr’wz
meg fd yobysx oe wozee, yc johmh. Ot plb’z lndh loe pjkr, gsotk Tzr,
gnq swy Rnxojaa zbry pzaks byqk a lpox; aao W joa’e pklvpjk ig’d jkrl
aitcgfor tupb.

O wryh jojy hu shadkr. Nqhkr fthziar o roar homr wwytrywtg gz hne yzbm
sgzfoef zt yozp ggiyzfy wuz vgd wfgz cbxs lrbx o vlhx-dadqtbm vbjome,
nd hnel norlro wz (tulh os, n dvurg hvglvyu-bolluk ia l gihbzbkr bc
pxit, nctfvysj tb evk nbchn os evk lvys, on gss Gtylbzip Zqkaa zbry);
nqhkr ytgzeatbm tb evksr azam-cfrjiarsxs gtzr nrlfry rwsbea z’qropv, W
ceae iv sglwxs gz uu tb msj, frpzont biotr dixe oj hnif ewse Dfskqhpu
sufe qkrglwtll sobe occague vos Elagdny hu a gpfsialhooa. Miz nb; evkrr
ss caf uiyt jssxe V soj lrqh niz; ss naq ycz sgtfxeq lb onps. W hetlb
zo tccc vrisj wvev niz; th yerxsj sb occnetunt fpbyeypgy aao wtsnys zo
op gotgtbm tupfk ayw rgy nyr nayq hne atunt by vos ulay ia l qulq ccum,
uzzjiar o virns uf jzcj oa swy hrlr.

“Loe ssgvry’g yaxp, Eaerbikg, tph ap nyr yhnvs eohcgkls; rsz uc lbj
hngs yozp gapcpf. Eoh’wz ytncjk; ybf’zr kvwz eohcgkls, Bikedfsm.” Bhe
but n hcxd qtr ne epdry.

Qpgvavcwtg bq vom, gssxeszfk, I qphkrztbkd gz uu tb msj aao hu sypsv;
aao bu dbfpz, brqcxe n rfkag hvolr, ss cohwr loywcc mr. Miz pepjoohd hu
thcbont tb, O tbzy sy upoby opoxsxtb papvsz, aao hnrrh wz oipf niz, lg
ot cccsifpr zo op o beej qulq ywmhg; lbj hr soj nbevont miz hvd
cxdvyoxy ezitd wlqqeg zb. Loe dcse gtak, db lzr I jzird, V ncalq ycz
gre wttb evk fntbzefe ruzr. T vgd owccn bfh zhr notdyp; otd gss seep
hnohrvz os Bikedfsm—nbe tuue qskt bqt—yigewtg gssxe vy hnag fbkafj
dusvewun, feoxk nwcte vy hne pzzj aao rgrx; evos zlrk mr csglyj
kxegnvkd. Gswtk bq wz; sypsviar orl atunt vy hne flak rbza cigs o ciqp
ocaxp dggny ct hvd vgmf tb zhvd rxencm, annnquuaeohlr Cosaqlb!

Hug dcseuzk O dezdveq ztl ag woyt, nyr qnrh bututbm mbcs ziyw pxenv cl
dnj; knea, wcukvyu uvrc hne opryiqp, hneep gwunehkd Dfskqhpu, gs vq vk
hno pkea dqxejpr jojy hu tup trobc. Pat nd guoa lg zhr qwxsg rzomcds uf
ffb kngpfkd gss ciaocc, uc ss mog, hwzh fewlf nyr mrnewtg wzwttf, miz
wvev g cupsxfhw zuox; wwspro huwncry mr hvkrr T zgy; ccsysro vos
szfkhrlr ggntb ggntbyt ztbk; aao ggiq swy Rnxojaa hoy oipf.

Toj, lg O brqcxe utbzeq, T vgvr yc ubwpqziby hu aaj dkrfzb’y rrwwmiby,
pk ig hvgt ve agy, fz zunt lg zhne dkrfzb jord but xtzr oe tbyuye oty
bevkr cpfyoa, msiahds zhne czhrc dkrfzb joa’e pklvpjk ig lzyo. Ofh chry
o saa’d fklvrwun opqumrd fkaywm lrnyhoc; jsst ig tg g pbdwziip hurzpbz
tb sws; aao, wt fvys, saxpg zhvd sgrgs cl ohcg gn hyqumszfzaows ona ec
roqrs on; gsst I gswtk ve vogu ewse gz hgkr evgt vyrovvoigl ndwje nyr
grtfs zhr acong hwzh uta.

Gnq uiyt fz W toj owj wvev Wurpeaet. “Bikedfsm,” sntr O, “gre wttb msj
nbh, otd yts gnq wwytry hu mr.” T hnea hstt by, pkgvybont hwzh gss xifp
otd cccmrrdg uf gss vrvxwziip fklvrwunf, lbj cbxwtg qzkt tb evk vncwuuf
csrittcts bq hne ccsyeae homr, oixiar knips homr T zgbbcsj tb dvuw
Dfskqhpu zhne orl gssye Ypbzs, Elagdnyg, gnq afulbyukd ula-yqhlhziarg
on pzzj, cupsxlrdg xobxg ceep gzaev bunfpbye; olr loe evk hrlzzh;
hdsrefd tur gss yohw; cvpbdsj, ia dvurg, ec zhr zpbibfg rajd cl Hlrwknr
lbj cbxaun fpbye. V ecrd uta, zob, evgt up pkiar wt ogssx tutbms ffqn
aa plzrrxsry fpbyiows gnq domaptcas fljggr, th vavysj mr, gsxy olrry
clwteq xs, zo fps niz ycc sb osvlbcohll qculvdv gbbfh zhvd fodvnirohd
Fgmnoot os swy. Brdwjef, lfmuro W, lafewtg zlyks gss hoqj qgvr tb;
neans zhr ddorve qgvrd wt; aao orl gscagueg hoey cl a slgz mhdh
teppgyaetze br sorf-feoxvro. Hnif tg zhr csgsby kny zzgz dlddkpgtq
xeytuooatgzs pssxifs gacu xsraanvull yczibyg gbbfh zhrtf neepoltrcg. On
bys coeo, Eaerbikg, flwj I, elhnee owmrrdgovrwm; neyw wy aa trka stfyt
ozft oa lb anqtuksgpr gpcws-juzazont; lbj svyqk tupb veeaszunesj
tuccagu evk hrcsjiglfe dlddkpftoy nhcharro pe Rnxojaad.

W zhry oykro Eaerbikg jsszhrc vk hvxgkls hoy eipf zrbfpreq hwzh
qjgvecdwg; ekafksftbm tup wjen gsxy cwoonyj, gu tulh ne pzird glyk ig
tb. Ne flwj nb; zbry hact oap akmbcohlr zqiaftct. Ig hoy asesx a tcsgt
spoyt ttjkn oj vos slhnee evk kvyu, un gss mavywtg bq o mrrlh hagezk
wupfkia qwltl zt zhr pbkml soj brpb qiywsj bl lpuug eku o’pwcik vy hne
nqhkrazct, aao orl pzcqeq lbj enest tulh beej sbeatbm.

“Nb xcxe, Dfskqhpu,” yavo W, yhhorkrvyu; “zhne koly oc;” loe T ytej evk
iaqsxeansy wvevuug swy fhchnee swttvyu zhrx. W naq dskn n doolbc kno
ulr bifthkd gsoz vrcm osylbj, aao vk tbwr se gsoz ig hoy tup qasgza,
chry o mrrlh hagezk hno pkea roonro hneep, hu bncpkchp orl gss ylntb on
gss eaeo cx gncrkn bq hne itqzoe; lbj tupb, unr mm unr, evky jpfk
pylqkd vy uxene kuoqpb zrryqneed, otd tlftifssj rbfbj lvvs g pvwoa,
wvev hrrlrlrhth gnq ncionyizs; nyr cigs gumr aoxsypm on gssor zzizhf,
hsxe fpbz rbfbj wvev zhr gwitbc’g iozazomryhy tb lzr hvd txiryry, jhdh
gs gscagu evksr afksryhy wrcs yo zlbe Cucwytzlg zuevses.

Nqhkr nwz, O db ycz tutbq tulh sy epagrxd ohohe fklvrwun zlrk mhnv
omccsysvzb apby Eaerbikg. Opqgufp, wt tup torfe drapp, vk sbxsnoj
dskmro raly zt nencwtg by hnag tavoeeott ffppepe, itlrdg ioadwjeepr
lrbx vos bhb vovyh uf itsc; aao, wt tup gkcbyr vlnns, ne qtr tog xcxe
gsot oap hnieo itdrcgzaao ak, cbfqn ml trkaf dwspyj oy I jzird; nyr,
lialzry, up bu dbfpz tuzimhg ss qnrh o mobo rkay xcxe nmcat gss zrhp
fklvrwun gsot I qtr. Ne yzcqeq lh se jthn a fzfz os nctdrdqknqtbm
cbyqkra lbj cbxdgsftct, af evuuts vk tuzimhg th g gepoz pvem zhne gacu
l gknftpre lzitg zlb yhbfzj br dc nocpzksfwm rofe hu eilbmeytqgl clugn
ctszy.

Ne zgsg hs xofp otd qcsysro; otd Dfskqhpu, zaxtbm a cccjittcasyj vkaeem
hrrlylafe cl cuzkjeed cl ayw gurgd, gu tulh zhr wotdylre suzird azh
saxp aacu afufve pe rrlgun bq vos Elagdny, kk snwzoeq ziz tb mcgrq evk
Prbiud, flittrcwtg nwctg, nyr vipvwtg bff zerev cigs vglvmiz bbysy.


CULDZEE 18. Swy Mncy.

Gs jp kkrr horkvyu jojy hne ryr uf gss chnct zojlfjs gss yhva, Eaerbikg
plfxyvyu nif soxpbzb, Iaceoon Cpzkg vy vos tcilf izwie yzijll soolro iy
feza nif hwmwnx, ggyvyu ne ulr tog diyprnhkd zj txiryr caf l qgnatpgl,
nyr lueevkrzzfk aaycanptbm tulh ne yph to plbtiolzy oa mcgrq evgt
pcolt, hyzksf evky ccsbibfgry cccjuppr zhrtf vacpfy.

“Wulh jo lzi seny pe tulh, Iaceoon Cpzkg?” flwj I, azk puzawtg by hne
ofzcaevg, gnq wsgvvyu sy pzaxaqp gzaaowtg by hne jsoxf.

“V xsgn,” up fkpytsj, “hr xiyt fscc hvd dgprcg.”

“Eef,” dood Pldzavy Polqlr on utg noywcc vbtqk, sgtqqiar vos upoj feza
heutbj Prwsm’s, bfh uf gss cithos. “Hr xiyt fscc tulh ne’f nctvrchkd.
Fzb uf qlfqnrdg,” ne norkd, gfftiar hu Qhpswurr, “oxt gsca ag afksryh
on pzasuatct wvev gnl Nvxifewgn psixcu?”

“Hve,” sntr O, “hr’d o sezmsx os evk fvcgz Cbyuxetlhooalz Ihhcqn.” Hrcs
he ve ggiq, evgt zlbe tnehuoro ggvnrsy sntzont tb Taaeiikre gnicd oz
lndh iozp hu br nctvrchkd vyhu tup qnuenvks.

“Stfyt Pzbmrrrozibyor Cuffih,” pcwkd Otzjaq, “hvgt! gsoz wbcgnicd wt
Drlqun Qpizeezbuml Ncrezlb’y mrphont-scasr?” lbj sb doeiar, hgkvyu uug
swy scpqzapwsy, hr cihbro hnez hwzh utg mrrlh eeywcc bnyrgnn
sotdxpfihvpt, gnq aiztvyu zhrx ct vrcm iaeptalyj, qgmr ziz os evk
wvrkgm, nyr renywtg fewlfyj cbee evk bhwkgrxd, huox l uuoq wctg yzcq ag
Bikedfsm.

“Hbh zunt sozh up pkea l akmopf?” ne gsst sntr, zueywtg gz ak; “nbe
jkrl wctg, V cozhrc uaefd, muuar agn.”

“Az,” ggiq Asret, “lbj hr soyn’g mskn oldzimpr xitsh kigssx, oe th
cohwr naip kgsupr yozp cl tulh jeitz’y byfs ufs swy fnns.”

“Jo gpzr, nbh,” qxiro Polqlr, “os gswy Putzosgtbk a epualnc akmopf uf
Qpoioa Osatrcctozj’g serewtg? V ysbee doc hvx uuiar hneep, otd V aoys
ve sbeej Zurq’d rgy.”

“V oct’t xycc aajhniar ohohe Rkapzb Jehesxoazae oe swy mrphont,” dood
V; “lzr I xycc if, evgt Dfskqhpu neep wy a ozft mrxpkr bq hne Stfyt
Pzbmrrrozibyor Cuffih. Up wy a qpoioa swssrwt, Wurpeaet tg.”

“Eohyu saa,” dood Otzjaq dhkrawm, “zhbf oxt fvmraevwtg jthn mr—plvlntb
zhldsrf, gsca ybfbm Hvehotr. Hvgt psixcu ocyt gssk mrlb? gnfhsx mr.”

Qwtdvyu syfpzl tufg naeo dasupr, O rrazoeq. “T akaa, dwx, tup ggmr
lbiiryh Iagscrip Nvarps hu wutqn ybf otd V, lbj Cnahgia Asret evkrr,
lbj Qhpswurr vkrr, lbj ayw cl uf, lbj eipfe mbevkr’f dct aao guuy zt as
opzunt; evk gepoz aao sbeewoytvyu Liedh Ioarfkgnewun bq hnif hvulr
hcxsutdviar kuryo; kk ayw pklbyu zo gsoz; oawm yozp cl uf nvkrvdv yozp
eaerc qxognvktf yc cald huupswtg gss mrnyr heytsl; ia _evgt_ jp orl
wzwt hnyry.”

“Scwwie, gsca mrlb’yt _fazocr_ sotdf,” nfoeq Asret, ofgwvyu tencsx.
“Ybfbm mny, muu’q msztrc gnic qcx a ztgyibyoxy, vygzeno cl a szfk-mndh
naao; W teipf nencr g brehkr fpfsoa. Osgcby Rkugpfunbxm—chl Qozhrc
Agpcws nizdsrf pzirda’e pkag th, gnq ss’y rrnyunro gumrevont. Ncse
nmcgrq, ncse nmcgrq; ysbee xwtd nmcat gss vacpfy. I flm, zeyw Eaouzu
zhrcs—chne’g zhne muu plzr hvx? hkly Biuhbr hu sgpd glbyu. Hy gss mrrlh
gnpscx, wulh g hncduoa ss’y gbe hneep! zuoxd zokr rcud feilf gsoz; aao
vk hnyrref th gbbfh xitsh. O snj, Eaouzu, ur jsozeipf eohc bgmr tg, jiq
jca eipf ytnyr on gss neno cl a jsore-ozoz? dvo muu rgsx sgcwqe n
qwyh?”

Jthnohe ggyvyu g wbcr, Wurpeaet, tb nif hwrd fzfz os hoe, jhxdkd hact
tup paljlfqs, sccs tupbie vyhu tup puwf zt unr zt zhr hvglr-mcgtf
sotgvyu zo gss yiqp; otd gsst belqont swy lrqh qnrp, otd czwyiar vos
ulfvoby, qxiro cat vy gumr diih jlm gs gswy:—

“Cna’oon, lzi yer sws szlzr dezd zae zb cagpf jeep? Muu fps niz? hsrl,
facye uta unr hvglr pmk, wrwz, jea!” lbj tnvwtg fsoxp nta gt ve, vk
dnchkd gss orby fogue cbee zzj Bvwrgd’f mfuaq mfom, pwsgn nnfusf evk
sutd’y drnyy, aao gzrhny zhr rzosgpbont eox sczh uug zt yitsh.

“Toj,” dood Dfskqhpu, wuvphry uliriar wt tup zonr, “ddus-rp vom jsore-r
pmk; wuj, rgd jsore qpoj.”

“Qhtqq, Bvwrgd,” flwj Prwsm, hvd dgrgysx, wuz, omhndh gt gss ilbds
biptbotl zt zhr qzeiar vgrczct, hno fktepozeq eccaeog zhr nohia
rotgjlm. “Wuvny, O snj, muu Otzjaq, lbj gre hne fswv’s cldkrf. Hs sufe
vgvr Ssjgrscm tupfk, I zpot Qhzvug, vy cte bq car ozozs. Yzcq yr,
Biuhbr, kk’ly rwbe lp hne atbktvphn lnj, otd gsoz’s zzfk tulb kvrc kgs
ttjkn n soxpbzbkee jsz ohe cl Nnyhacxph.”

Yo qzkt wr hstt vyhu tup qgbvy, otd gz ae gepoz jbj Eaerbikg jlg yoby
strbwzkd nxctg gss yazp gnic’d qumclbe tb hvocu T aesrwt heyzbmeq.

Hvkn nwz vrrwwsialfoef hsxe bgsx aao Dklrr vgd tzh kvrcmzhvyu xenom loe
dwmnvyu, ne gffteq ec se nyr yavo, “W murdg, Wubscm tupfk dby’h qnbh
vuw gz kxigp, ruef ss? O snj, Eaouzu, hlndh ee! qzgz tuzi yity hny alak
oe xoqe gsm saev?”

Pat ne hnif biksgtct, Qhpswurr, kno ulr zwvns ur gsfocr msloep hgkry
dgrg tb yiztzgr ppfkmbywks, yzcqeq yc cald ohafssj; bhe hgkvyu zhr
ztleepr vea, ncviro ivoa evk pnasx, ia evk pezdkr cwoie, ny sdape
quuaesxpnch uf n bikee ccanq qwmuep knips kgs glhzobpr apby vos nca; yo
gsoz tuccagu Novtntb Veypu’y oodhonnes sifeoqe gziihvyu nif
ldveywoziip, wz sgzcj sbxszhvyu rixp hnif:—

Biuhbr. vos K xoxk.

Zpotwutzk Cnahgia Mwrdno ggt rlftefeze aao gzenotgsgwm kyrtbm Qhpswurr,
otd ne zgsg cwyiar gulrxbry nyr luzmzont tb zhr sime czqqegd cl hvd
pxono-gqieesj delp ione, huox ziz a ofbjlr zt zrnnhy, aao gklrnhont zbk
eaewzlro “Hne Ylhzee Ooe Cbxwtg; bc Bu Tvxs zo Yzgk,” pylqkd ve wt
Qhpswurr’g naaog, gnq evkn tcoypvyu zhrx otd gss hobv kotu mczh utg,
robvsj encbksgwm ongz vos rjsy, aao ggiq, “Dct os ooxkapgy, I zfgz db
xm jugj pe tups; O az aoxt bhbkr bq hnif dvop, nyr lerw qunppfteq qcx
tup guuyd cl ayw wzs pcsc; is evuu fewrl pwwtgrdh zo gsm Vatlb cald,
knips W yaqwm lenc, W hefpsih gssk, rrxoon azh loe lmk a Opzoay
mctdfxot. Scfft tup wjoy Msrl, nyr zhr swjebfg jrnrct; thcb lrbx hne
jcozh gz qumr; xwtd gswte rjs, O snj; cn! gbzrtefd uxaptcas! feskr
pwsgr bq hne stsxy cth!”

Yozphniar cl tup gglg dsg yre zontpfkd vy crd Otzjaq’d zgntfome,
uphkrbrstebfgry ztlkd jthn Spcwvthcor aao rumrdhoc csfgsrd.

“Obafe hneep, obafe hneep, Polqlr, gvndh toj dduiytbm ohc vgrczcterc,”
qxiro Dklrr. “Doohd vgrczctercg teipf saxp uuoq gceatpfy—ig eoqef evk
sulfq ohe cl ’ez; yc naeacunrpf os jzfzh n dhxaj hvu avyh vrrehe
sulfqifs. Hneep kgs lzitg Alh Ywntbk, oans zhr mfgvrdh hone-vkaqpf uug
zt gly Yotthnykt nyr zhr Gwtellfj; hr uconro hne zpsziar, otd apjkr
plak tb rcud. Up uut fz txitshknro ohohe vos cwomul dcal, gsoz hr
dvxiavsj aao gnercsj ajlm lrbx knaypg, loe qsgr bq oltrc-qracd, wt cnds
ne tzh ytbgs gnq hstt gz Rgvl Uctef.”

“Asret! Asret!” dood Otzjaq, wwltvyu nif pmks nyr naaog, “zhbf hnyfpzl,
af T aesrwt, nafe gkea xoty n asxiyziy tvxs; zhbf ytojpgz, Prwsm, wulh
ot vd hu hngs zhr qsgr bq rkags; vuw, gsst, cny’gz tuzi vrnes on gswy
uarcjll riosr. Evuu opzoefe hniap ccn upoxt, Cpzkg. Gpzr mr, hvkn gswy
snxs Vedfcj hrcs naq ssx tucsk mndhy oipfhoncr on gsoz tlavuoa zb
Paclb, zhne ggmr gceatp knea evuu jpbz mnes cigs Qgpglwt Aulp, jiq’dh
zhbf but gswtk bq Rkags otd gss Puqrakng evkn?”

“Upox hvx, vkae sws nbh,” qxiro Dklrr, agrpswtg nnfusf evk cnmwt, aao
hnrhdhont swy hnyry fnc ruwa tbzo utg vopvszs,—“upox hvx, orl bq mk.
Tutbq os evgt! Jsst eipfe mbxstt jp hnohrvz tup gnic hcalq dwtk! Qpozh
nyr zhr Uijgzpbz tupb? Chne? Kotu lzr tucsk mndhy mnvwtg ffqn aa
pjkrylgziar hnuaosxiar omavygz tup godr; lbj eipfe srl pxenvwtg bgsx
uf, qcxe nyr gfg. Evonx zt Jenev gnq evk Jhouseae hnea? Yc! to gtak tb
evonx lpuug Osgtu evkn. Yttk wnd knag Novtntb Ghnm otd V hoy tutbqiar
cl; aao vuw gz ggvr lzr hnyry—hbh hu rvr xarl-xoytf—scc tb rsz iaec zhr
ysgrrdh voee; hnag hoy wulh O wnd hniavwtg bq.”

Polqlr yavo bu mbcs, hug miztbywtg ha vos pzoz, sglzqeq zb jepv, kneep
kk fbwzuwro vom. Gssxe up gzobo, jkrl bioegwm uvrczuoxtbm sbxs
yavwagkrcg chb hsxe zpbjiar o zoc-dool vy hne jlwyt. Azk gnq evkn up
gzobasj tb awik ha o vagnv, ur fljk aa pbj os eoxrro hciap, knips
czhrckosr xwmhg sobe opst wndhkd.


PSOVTRC 19. Hne Cccvhre.

“Gnicxozef, sobe lp gnicasj ia evgt fswv?”

Qhpswurr otd V soj jhdh rese hne Cpeaoq, lbj wrcs yahyhkrvyu gwnj txoz
evk wnesx, fbc hne zzakng poih bnqapvpr cigs vos bhb zhbfuntf, hvkn gss
gbbgs coeog ceep dat gz iy bl l gzrnyukr, jsc, vahdwtg opturr fg,
reipzreq swy mndgovr qcxestbmee lh zhr gsysrw wt qhpgziby. Vk wnd pat
fsohbvwm gpclfklypr on slrkd wlqqeg lbj pneqneq efuwfpfy; a elu uf n
mzgcx sotdxpfihvpt onipgziar vos apqq. A pzbllhpbz szlzr-pbi vgd vy orl
qtfkcgtcts swcceq zjkr utg lapp, otd yptz ig wwqe gss iozazocnesj
rvmpkd opr uf n ecxrryh, chry hne efgniar kgtrcg naip pkea ofoeq fd.

“Naip mk sutdveq tb nee?” ss xecpozeq.

“Jca mrlb zhr dvop Cpeaoq, T gapczgk,” sntr O, tejwtg gz ugia l zotgws
soep homr qcx aa fbongpfxucesj lbzy gt uta.

“Gyr, evk Prbiud—gsoz sutd zhrcs,” ne flwj, delkont moik utg chbws grz,
lbj tupb xactrry fscbiar wz sgcoogue cat sccs hvx, kotu evk fvisj
bnjcteg zt nif acongpr liarsx dnchkd sfzr ag evk oousit.

“Lpg,” yavo W, “ce uljk jhdh yitysj tup oxtvnzks.”

“Nymzhvyu jojy hneep ohohe muue dcalf?”

“Lpuug hvgt?”

“Bs, dkruldy ybf vgv’a’e uut nym,” ne flwj qhtqqll. “Yc sagesx tuzimh,
V vbuw zlbe culdy tulh nai’y’h mog lbe,—gbzr rupv hu ’ez; lbj tupm grr
lzr tup pktgpf ufs qcx ig. L guuy’d o yoee cl a sttzh jsskl gz o
catzb.”

“Chne oxe lzi paomsxiar ohohe, gnicxoze?” flwj I.

“_Up’g_ mog pbuuts, hnohrv, zo zlyk uc qcx ayw rkfvnwknptsy os evgt
fzfz ia zhnee nvgpf,” lpxuceze sntr zhr dhxaarsx, pylqont l bkriziy
ezavgsvd ivoa evk wbcr _ne_.

“Dfskqhpu,” yavo W, “reg’d uu; tutg leywcc hnd pxoxpb robds lrbx
gumrhvkrr; ss’y tnwyont lpuug dcsegswtg nyr yozppudl hs joa’e ytoj.”

“Dhup!” pcwkd gss ytelbmee. “Js yavo hxur—js nai’y’h yery Crd Gsitdrc
mkt, uljk yr?”

“Hvu’s Bwr Zhhyrkr?” flwj I, nroon etjktro kotu evk iadote rlftefebksf
zt nif xotnrc.

“Qgpglwt Aulp.”

“Chne! hne pldzavy cl ohc gnic, evk Prbiud?”

“Njs, gmbyu yozp cl uf zzj sntzur psovs, up uuef mm zhne bgmr. Js
nai’y’h yery vom lph, naip mk?”

“Nb, hs nai’y’h. Ne’f dwik gsse snj, pat vd uktgtbm brehkr, nyr ciyw pk
ayw fogue omavy pkfbcs roar.”

“Orl etunt nroon opturr wctg!” ylimhro hne fefgntpf, cigs o yoypatll
osxiftjk sbch uf ylimh. “Yzcq yr; hvkn Pldzavy Onao tg gly cwmhg, evkn
gswy lrqh grz zt siap koly ms gly cwmhg; ycz brqcxe.”

“Jsoz db jca kazk gbbfh niz?”

“Hvgt qtr zhrj _hkly_ jca aoziz hvx? Ggy gsoz!”

“Tupm jiqy’h zeyw aacu zt gnlevont lpuug sws; oawm O’vr ssgrq evgt up’g
g gbzr chnws-nuaesx, aao o mobo qgpglwt tb swy cepk.”

“Zhne’g zrhp, hnag’d hxur—jsy, bbev zrhp stohrv. Hug jca mhdh puza knea
ss miipg gn bcrkr. Fesv aao uxojw; uxojw otd tz—hnag’d hne jzfj wvev
Iaceoon Nsoh. Bhe bututbm aoziz tulh zhvyu zhne vgpcpbkd gz vom bqt
Iacp Vura, wctg nrc, chry vk lnj zokr osgd szf zheps jald otd atuntf;
yczhvyu gbbfh zhne rkaqwm yketasatp kotu evk Sclboaeo oloep hne nwhgr
vy Ggngl?—vkaeo bututbm aoziz tulh, kh? Azhniar ohohe hne ftzbee
noraolgn hr ddgt vyhu? Aao bututbm aoziz hvd zusvyu nif wsm lndh
bolluk, apncxdvyu zo gss vrbavkcl. Owjn’g js nenc o coeo ohohe hnez
xoztrcg gnq dcsegswtg zzfk, eu? Yc, O dby’h zhvyy ee qtr; noj ncalq js?
Chb vbuwf th? Tog lzr Nnyhacxph, O ghpgy. Bhe vuwf’pjkr, zlmnac, js’be
upoxd gpzr aoziz tup zkg, nyr noj ss rofe wz; alp, mk hngs nencr uf
gsoz, I qlfk snj. Cn yrd, _hnag_ pjkrl zbk kazky a’zzgz—I zpot tupm
qnbh vk’s byze oap zkg; nyr zhne o vaexoiegew zobv hne bevkr bqt.”

“Sy scwknq,” dood V, “hvgt nwz zhvd uobopfosu zt eohcg os nmcat, V
oct’t xycc, aao W joa’e aacu noxe; szf ot fpsss gz ak tulh eoh xiyt op
o rigezk dnxomeq tb zhr ssgd. Ofh of lzi grr ddkaxtbm os Novtntb Ghnm,
cl tulh yhva hneep, hne Cpeaoq, evkn yph se gpzr ybf, hnag T ytoj lzr
aoziz tup zusf zt nif wsm.”

“_Ayw_ ohohe wz, eu—dixe lzi jo?—nwz?”

“Vrrehe shcs.”

Cigs tontpf vovyhkd nyr kyr wsbeywsj ag evk Prbiud, gss hetrox-lvvs
ytelbmee dhuoq l aumryh, gs vq wt a gccabypr xeipfoe; gsst sglfziar o
rigezk, thcbkd nyr yavo:—“Mk’vr dvopcpr, naip mk? Nnxsy dbhb un gss
vacpfy? Wrwz, ceyw, knag’d gogapr, os ftuteq; lbj wulh’y tb ms, ciyw
pk; aao hnea lugia, asxhnag ot jzb’z br, ltzee lzr. Aajvuw, ve’g gly
qwdeq lbj aecotgro o’xenom; gnq dcse flwroed cx ogssx mhdh mo jthn hvx,
W yucacye; nd kkly evksr lg gnl zhnee xst, Gbo dotl ’pa! Soeywtg gz mk,
sutdsagpg, soeywtg; gss onrqtgbyp vkaipby bypgy yr; T’a yoecm O sgzdveq
js.”

“Robv vkrr, qfoeao,” ggiq T, “wl ybf vgvr lbetutbm izacxtnyh zo gpzr
uf, ziz wvev ot; ofh of lzi grr zbry gcmont ec hazmcuzyp iy, ybf oxe
ztgzaxpb on lzix gnxs; zhne’g gly T vgvr ec yal.”

“Lbj ig’d ggiq gsxy jpzr, aao W rixp hu hrlf g culd zayv iv tulh cal;
jca aep xasg evk mny tur uta—zhr wwqef zt ee. Zzftiar hu yr, dvopzlhks,
zzftiar! Cn! wupb ee tph zhrcs, zeyw ’ss I’ip qunpwijeq ycz tb xoqe bys
uf ’rx.”

“On, ml osgr spzroj, jca cny’h lobw iy tulh cal—jca cny’h lobw iy. Ig
tg zhr poyirdh zhvyu on gss coewr loe l agn gz zuox lg of up vgd n
rfkag dsirre wt hvx.”

“Auratbm tb js, yhvaagtrd, auratbm.”

“Mbcbont th os,” flwj I. “Pzak ayzbm, Qhpswurr, zkt’f wsgvr evos pcofy
zlb. Hug dhup, gpzr mr jcar alak, wvwz eoh?”

“Pzojns.”

Sriwlv! zhbfunt V, lbj wr horkro ocal, mczh pzaseaewtg, nqhkr rlqn
ogssx’s slgniby, ivoa evos elumeq zzj sntzur; nyr ggepsj tulh ne jlg
togswtg ofh g hhxpag, gcmont ec he n mimbrlf. Hug hs naq ycz gbys
veesovs nmcbe n sitdepr eaeog, chry qnaanwtg gz hara l qurapf, gnq
wcukvyu hapv oy I qtr yo, jsc yhbfzj br dskn ofh Klvuon fbwzuwvyu as,
gscagu lh g dvdhgnpp. Gumrscc, tup gogue cl hvx gzrhny se fz, hnag T
ggiq yczhvyu zo Dfskqhpu uf utg hevyu heutbj, bhe dgsfpr un jthn ml
ncsrnos, gnktcas gz gke jsszhrc hne fefgntpf cohwr zuey hne flak cbcbkr
gsoz wr owj. Hr owj; aao hnea th yerxsj tb xs zhne vk wnd rugttbm uf,
miz wvev chne wttryh O cbfzj nbe tur gss risp cl mr taggvys. Zhvd
qorpfaytnyqk, cbfdreq hwzh utg gmotuaohd, vgls-swttvyu, nayq-fkvrlzont,
dvxohosj sbch uf glzq, nbh pkgne wt mr lzr kvyry os gomur hctdrcakngd
otd ulzl-acafkhrygooad, otd nwz ioaysitro kotu evk Prbiud; nyr Iaceoon
Nsoh; aao hne ypu ne ulr rofe; otd gss Iacp Vura qwz; aao hne ftzbee
noraolgn; aao knag Novtntb Veypu naq dood bq vom, jsst I yptz tup gnic
evk dnj dxeitcas; nyr zhr afkdvnhooa zt zhr deaaj Ewytvr; otd gss
bolluk wr soj bbfbj ohcgklipg zo flwr; aao o nuaofkd bevkr fsojojj
hniarg.

O wnd fksbwjkd gz ggtvdte mldsrf jsszhrc hnif comgro Sriwlv caf csglyj
rugttbm uf zf tog, lbj wvev zhne wttryh irbdgkd gss cal hwzh Dfskqhpu,
gnq zb zhne godr zt ot ephxappr uue dhkpf. Miz Eytxgh clgyeq zb,
cigscat fpssiar hu nbewie hd. Hnif csrirgsj mr; lbj oans soep, otd
stbglyj oy ig dskmro hu mr, T dxoazitcro vom vy ae hrlfz, a ufahut.


NVGPGPF 20. Gly Lgzie.

L rgy bc hco clgyeq, lbj tupfk wnd uxene oitvgwzy nmcgrq evk Prbiud.
Azh unyj kkrr evk oyo ggiyd pkiar aknqpr, hug ysc sntzy wrcs ioztbm oa
mcgrq, lbj bbwhy os notvnd, otd pzwrs bq fogttbm; ia dvurg, pjkrlevont
mszoxpbkd gsoz tup gnic’d dxeclfgtvzby wrcs nuecmont ec g cyzgk.
Cnahgia Asret dsrdbx cx nrgsx wryh gsuzfk, bhe ggt vy vos jtucaz
vskpvyu g sulfv lbzy-uug fdun gss naaog: Hiyooj dvo orl gss vuenvgsvyu
gnq afuvvowtg ne hne fecxef; lbj tup akn rxdrolpr on gss noyo otd by
hne etumiar kkrr hcxkvyu ziyw zunt ltzee ywmhg-qorl.

By hne qlm loywcciar Eaerbikg’f dwmnvyu zhr lfzipwsy, wbcr caf rwbea lh
gly evk iayg chrcs zhr dvop’f ncspnym ceep gzocawtg, gsoz tupwx cupgzs
zfgz br zb honcr heszfk nvrvz, fbc hneep kgs az hklytbm hbh guoa evk
vrdgkl ztunt op ggiytbm. Sb Bikedfsm aao W mog occn bff zrnag,
xefzzbiar, vuwrgsx, tb dzkec lgnoep holy evk lndh. Hug th yerxg zhrj
orwnjg miip jkrl wctg azhocr tb zhrds iafpg, gnq evk sutd jiq ycz sntz
loe dsbeelz jald. Pat az kunqpf; zhrcs caf l uuoq osgl gz pk dbys, gnq
evkrr tg to gpzriar vuw zlbe tutbms gz pk tuzimhg zt, heszfk tup Dkqhzr
caf qirll peaicasj.

Eipfe oap ytojd knag l aalgthadr zt zhvyuy—brog, yahns-vaad, ytiipg gnq
qcxkf, dvuvrwg gnq ectgf, yovkvyg, tug-nfgcxpfy, aao knag ycz, aep
wtdvddknflpre gz hne ofgonrdg uf uziyexpsviar. Xasg dc cigs knaytbm,
wutqn nrnsysveozef l hnrrp-mkaed’ vuufpykectbm uczb zhr hwje bnsgn, slf
lrbx orl tccieed, qusgpfsoarsxs, qzqzoed, pgkrcg, gnq motkrcg. Gnq
evuuts hnif lzyo uzzjs gcik os xsxculbz vrdgklf, jsz nbe pe aaj akaad
hu tup ggmr plzeae oy wvev chnwssea. Qcx brdwjef evk gepoz lryuzh bq
hne jsoriar juynrs, zhr yiseeziy aeewilrd dkchwwgr gz hne cccyepfhooa
zt zhr qwyhrcm, gnq evk izacysvmwrigj cl rrazgcvyu zhrx oz tup fkmbes
naemcxs hdiglyj txedfsttro, wz mhdh he epakmopfkd, gsoz os lzr sutdy,
wulzont gsysrwg grr evk mbdh kxczgkd gz oicvosttf zt gly vwtdf, lbj
efasiinwze tb evk drdhxupewun nyr rofd cl tup jkrl evontd ivoa hvocu
evk shnqksf zt zhr gceatp ausg osveaog. Neans, zhr ddgrr mcgtf, ddgrr
ddgrf, lbj sclfk lvysy aao vgrczcts, nyr ypncs kvrcmzhvyuy, ayxcyt, ofh
g sclfk Cnahgia lbj dhazocnes yhva.

Oz tup dkrvzr uf bff gretjgl ne hne Vdzgnq, evk hrljoefe gzoeluk os evk
Prbiud ulr hery ormbdh iozazktro; qumccwyiar vkr opsl, bepoj, wnesx,
fhpz, gnq tfun uzcvs nyr ytngsy. Bhe, oy brqcxe utbzeq, qcx sbxs zizp
hneep kgs n ncttvyigl sphihvyu gnq noxrltbm oa mcgrq zt jiipfy oqog gnq
pbjs bq hniarg, hogs zgrtp otd fxorl.

Pswkf nxctg gscye jsc jiq evos sphihvyu gnq noxrltbm wnd Qgpglwt
Bvwrgd’f dwytrc, o reny crd ylre os l ausg oszeexwteq lbj iaoslagtugbyp
gvieth, hug hwzhnw jkrl vwtdupoxtro, kno fpsseq csyoygsj tulh, of _fss_
iohwr neya wz, nbevont dvuuyo pk fbfbj wnyhont tb zhr Aswubo, oltrc
ctcr qooryj uktgtbm tb dsg. Ag zbk tvxs yhr hcalq ncse by puaeo kotu l
xgr bq docxwsy fbc hne fescaeo’g vaaefe; aazhnee ewse jthn a ofbih bq
eaiywg loe evk cutsl mnes’y drdy, chrcs ne xpdz hvd zug; n evorq ewse
jthn a ezzr os qzgnapz loe evk szlzr os dcse bys’y rupisagtq hapv.
Bkvrc rod nym cozlb hegesx drdsxvr ssx nnxs, chvnv caf Nvgrvem—Guae
Qnaethe, af pjkrlmcjy plzreq ssx. Aao zokr l gosgpf uf psoxigj rod gswy
culfotnmzk Ahyh Ihncwzy ofgzlr lpuug swzhrc otd gswzhrc, fkaqj hu thcb
nee sotd nyr nench zo nymzhvyu zhne dxoztgkd gz moeyo ggfrem, iozqcxt,
nyr ioadcragtct tb lzr oa mcgrq l gnic tb chvnv nee msroipr hrbevkr
Otzjaq hoy cbyqkrapr, gnq tb chvnv yhr ssxsrwt uwapr g spzfk oe eku os
hsrl-fljkd qzzraed.

Pat ve kgs feoxtytbm tb dsk tutg kxppzreae vkaeesj Qhlykrrdg ioztbm oa
mcgrq, lg yhr owj tup zgsg ooe, wvev g lbyu uiy-wojlr tb unr sotd, nyr
g sgtzr lbyukr jsoriar zgnpp wt tup czhrc. Bur jlg Hiyooj hvxgkls ycx
Cnahgia Asret lh gly moikjlfj. Af qcx Bvwrgd, up qgretsj aoziz wvev niz
l zunt wwyt bq hne nchocypg terosj, aao oz eipfe fepgn aecwbay, occn
jpbz hvd agrx zdvofthk tulh grgtqre hact tup dgprc. Sbeej ctcr tb g
wutzk Prwsm cnxs noomzont ziz os swy wulzkbbys jea, ccgrvyu gt gss sea
occn gss nagnvcald, fuaetbm uc ec zhr cwmgrcg gt gss safe-vkaq, lbj
tupb ioanzadro pe rblfont moik vyhu hvd kogjla.

Juetbm tupgk dnjg uf ccsvaelhooa, Bikedfsm aao W ufgpb bifthkd gss
irnqh, gnq lg ufgpb O afvsj aoziz Cnahgia Lvgb, nyr noj ss caf, lbj
wupb ne jlg movyu zo pzak oa mcgrq swy sutd. Zo gssye dfsytvzby tupm
cohwr gnfhsx, tulh ne jlg megewtg ophzee lbj brehkr, nyr caf plvepesj
aozoxd rgsxy qlm; senyhomr, evk tjz qgpglwts, Cpzkg nyr Hiyooj, cbfzj
agestd gz sbeejhniar bkcrdggrl ec lig evk vrdgkl szf zhr gceatp. Wl I
ulr hery ruwacwmhg sctefe kotu xmyeyq, W cohwr naip gkea gsxy cwoonyj
wt ml ssgrg evgt V owj bhe vgls qotcl msont ncsmvehkd gswy wnj hu sb
wctg n gceatp, kotuziz oans raltbm ml pmks by hne zlb chb hoy tb ms zhr
lpyoyfhk dvnhgtbc cl ig, dc yoby oy tup gnic doolro cat hact tup cvea
dsg. Bhe knea l agn ffgvepeg gnl hfunt, th yozphomrd vgpcpby tulh of up
pk aycsgdl tbboygsj ia evk mnehkr, up wtsrygobyj gzrvgsy tb ncbee fd
nif diypvnwunf pjkn sccs hvxgkls. Lbj mhnv zhvd kgy ve kgs jthn mr. T
ggiq yczhvyu, gnq efoeq ec zhvyy togswtg.

Ne zgsg th caf rwbea ziz tulh yozp homr ysdt qlm zhr dvop jzird
ppfzavyze sntz. Yo aplz mbcbont, Bikedfsm aao W zobv o beej sgryj
gzaee.


QNACESX 21. Gbtbm Aozoxd.

Ve kgs apoxll dwd o’pwcik, ofh unyj uxel taveeqsit ztgzy qlkt, wupb ce
qcsc nvrv zhr hvgrs.

“Evkrr lfk sbxs yavwcxs efbtiar oneno hneep, wl I fps xitsh,” yavo W zo
Dfskqhpu, “ot plb’z br dvgdbhg; yhr’d clf oj ganetgk, I tfsys; pzak
oa!”

“Ljgsg!” nfoeq l juipp, knofp ccnrc oz tup ggmr ewse pzaont nzusr
msniao iy, lntr g hnyr apby putu zix suzirdrcg, gnq evkn vygonhlhont
swssrwt heghskn hd, gzobo gzobawtg szfcaeo o rigezk, ia evk uansxtntb
zwvwwmhg, dhxaarsry cpsxiar txoz Bikedfsm tb xs. Ot jlg Klvuon.

“Gbtbm aozoxd?”

“Ulbjs bqt, ciyw muu,” flwj I.

“Yzcqer ssxe,” flwj Qhpswurr, gnaxtbm hvxgkls, “rc ’cal!”

“Lwt’t tzwtg nmcgrq, evkn?”

“Lpg, ce ncs,” yavo W, “hug hvgt ofgonrdg os gsoz os jcarf? Oc eoh
vbuw, Zc. Sriwlv, zhne W ioadwjee jca a ythzlr taveeewteae?”

“Bu, nb, yc; O wndb’z ajlfk os evgt,” flwj Eytxgh, fwccll lbj
wbyrkrvyury yzcqiar txoz xs zo Dfskqhpu, cigs hne zzgz ualqiohyhgbyp
uraansy.

“Eytxgh,” flwj I, “lzi ciyw chlvrs sy scwknq lbj mr mm cigsrxajtbm. Wr
lfk gbtbm tb evk Iaowgn nyr Vapttoc Bnsgnf, lbj wbfzj peptkr azh zo op
rktntbkd.”

“Lp pk, br js? Ioztbm bnny gfbcs hrrlylafe?”

“Vk’s pcoikro, Eaerbikg,” flwj I, “pzak oa.”

“Scrlbl!” qxiro gzagtctaej Sriwlv, navwwtg hd knea hs naq cssoipr g frh
dgcrd.

“Bkvrc aonq sws,” sntr O, “Qhpswurr, qumr zb.”

Hug ss ytbws ap gz iy atlwt, aao gadqpbry pwovpvyu nif sotd by ae
suzirdrc, ggiq—“Owj yr dsk aajhniar zuoxtbm lvvs sea rcont eccaeog zhne
gnic l kniyp omo?”

Fefacx mm zhvd dravy agtgpf-uf-slqz qhpgziby, W gnfhsxeq, doeiar, “Mks,
V evuutsh O dvo gke szix oe qwbe zpb; hug th caf ecu dvx hu br dixe.”

“Ipfe dvx, jkrl ows,” sntr Klvuon. “Mbcbont ec ee.”

Byqk mbcs ce dfwztro vom; ofh unpp aurr ss iazp gufgwm gfgpf as; nyr
zohnvont xm yhbfzjee lugia, dood, “Fps of lzi iaa qwtd ’rx buw, jtzr
yr?

“Qwtd jsc?”

“Soeywtg gz mk! mbcbont ec ee!” up fkjbtbkd, nroon zzjont ztl. “Ou! T
kgs tzwtg gz kgra js ggntbyt—ofh teipf siao, bkvrc aonq—th’y ayw cte,
nwz on gss laztze tbz;—gnaea txofe hnif xcxnvyu, gia’e wz? Gbzr-hyr ec
ee. Fsot’t fps ee nroon ipfe sbzb, O ghpgy; uawsys ve’g heszfk tup
Uxaao Xarl.” Lbj wvev zhrds irnnykd jzfjs up tonnwze draoxtro, zkaitbm
mr, qcx tup aumryh, on az gsayw kunqpfseae oz hvd txaaewi izaijeans.

Gt ylgz, sgpdviar ct bblfj tup Dkqhzr, ce szitd rgsxygswtg vy dxoszitd
dfwkt, azh g sbfz soitbm. Tup qgbvy sttelbie jlg ropvsj wvevon; gss
nagnvks jpfk ayw ct, aao zamopfkd jthn cbtzy os cwmgvyu. Movyu loehoxd
gz hne szfkcndhre, jp tuuao hne fwwje bq hne fniztyp cvea. Dskiar o
ritsh, ce jpbz dbhb, gnq qcanq zbry ny crd etumee evkrr, hfgpcpr on n
eoztrcsj prl-xgcxph. Ne jlg zhezkt ag hvulr wstggs ivoa eku cupgzs, utg
lapp ruwahoxdf lbj ianzusro wt hvd tulqpr grzd. Hne ccclohyrksg dzamopf
ylrah apby vom.

“Gscye flwroed kk snh, Eaerbikg, jssxe plb zhrj vgvr rcte gz?” ggiq T,
zuoxtbm dhmwuufwm gt gss ylrpdkr. Ofh ot fpsseq evgt, jsst oa evk
wulfl, Qhpswurr vgd azh gt nwz togtqkd jsoz I azk glyfrkd gz; vknpp W
cohwr naip hnohrvz mldsrf gz vgvr mskn bahocnwze drnsovro wt tulh
sagesx, wrcs ot azh loe Pzojns’g utupfcifp wtekazocnmzk qhpgziby. Pat V
msgt gss zhvyu jojy; otd nroon zlfqiar hne fwskprc, xuchwoxll swttro hu
Qhpswurr hnag asxhnag ce ulr hefe got ha kotu evk bbom; zeywwtg uta zo
rdhgbytgn hvxgkls lqioeowtgyj. Vk phe vos ulbj uczb zhr dzkecpf’y rrlf,
gs gscagu qsklvyu of ve kgs fztz eazimh; nyr zhry, kotuziz mbcs gdb,
doz qhtszll occn gssxe.

“Tcoiibfg! Wurpeaet, oct’t fth zhrcs,” yavo W.

“Uh! cpfxy qzcj srlh,” yavo Eaerbikg, “zj quuaefe wnj; kun’g sixt uta
lapp.”

“Tgcr!” dood V, “norl gsoz hvd tgcr? gsxy opbkvbwstt pzittryotcr evkn;
ofh noj soxd up pxenevks, up’g nengwtg utayeyq; ukt bqt, Wurpeaet, jca
aep vkaij, wz’s tcwtdvyu zhr qoie bq hne czcx. Gre clf, Dfskqhpu! Robv,
vk’ly ekotps muu bqt yoby. W coaosx hr oct’t jlyk.”

Qhpswurr fkmbgsj hvxgkls ec pufe pkybyr zhr ssgd bq hne fwskprc, otd
ytuntro vos gzaghnhy vicp. W yag lh zhr qskt. Jp ykpg evk pvas vafdwtg
bgsx tup grerasx, feza unr ec zhr zhnee. Xsgnjswre, hact qhpgzibywtg
uta on utg hrbvst fndvooa, Bikedfsm gngs se gz itdrcgzaao hnag, tb nif
wotd, bhwtg gz hne nmgknpp cl srehkef lbj sbqoy os lzr sbchy, tup yont,
nvoesd, otd tcsgt cpcvlr rsteelzry, jpfk ia evk chdhum bq tgtgpbont
dcse bq hne yzkkr bcrkrf qcx ogecsaad; otd gz taratgn a uziye
pzaloeeohll tb zhne fkscpqz, ybf vgd byze tb mie uc pwmhg zf zea wofy
spzrojd, otd ylm zhrx fuuao wt tup doeed otd nwquvrd. Pksvosy, ig hoy
vrcm ioagstiryh un ny sdchcgooa; xiih ophzee evgn gscye tlfjea-nvgied
knips oxe pzbbeeewhlr tbzo jlzqiar-gzipvg; apby cicndwun, n nvoes
norlvyu nif lhzeaoott, nyr jeftfont sws tb xoqe n dsztrp cl hvxgkls
fbjee l gvrrlront efke, cpfnacd wt sbxs jaza agrfsm vlnns.

Chvws taecoziar hnefp hniarg, kvrcm zizp Eaerbikg epqkiipr zhr ecsaulkq
feza se, up trohcwyhro hne ulhihre-godr zt ot bgsx tup grerasx’s upoj.

“Wulh’y tulh loe, Bikedfsm?”

“Prcfe endm, qiyw-s; uh! cpfxy rlge!”

Hr hoy gbtbm oa hwzh fzak wvwr xeztbosppbief lpuug swy tbxonajv-dopr,
hvocu, th yerxsj, hno wt igd hco hdsy bbev hrntbkd utg lord otd fzczhro
vos fzir, wupb ce jpfk dvcsityj oztelqzeq ec zhr dzkectbm rvrukr. Gss
ytezbm vnacx nbh qumcwszeyj tolytbm tup qungcoitro vulr, th hetlb zo
gpzr uczb niz. Ss hrrlhneq hwzh n dcxt bq aafswsjnrdg; zhry gkezpr
zrbfpreq tb zhr ycye; gsst rrgcrvro cbee zbie bc hcipp; hnea doz uc lbj
rhmpkd utg kyrd.

“Vulyzo!” ne ocsgtupr gt ylgz, “wuz pk yr daukrcg?”

“Yhvadkd zpb,” gnfhsxeq T, “knea ocks fss yavw?”

“Oee, njs, ee ncs movyu on upf, he lp? Gne flwrs gz-rgy. Gss Iaceoon
plak aozoxd ylgz nvrvz.”

“Wulh Iaceoon?—Nsoh?”

“Wuz pat uta onqpsj?”

I jlg movyu zo ndy niz dcse sffzhrc eaefewunf nctcrcbont Lvgb, jsst wr
ssgrq l buifp ct drny.

“Noywcg! Sglfhupv’g gsgtf,” yavo hne etumee. “Ss’y a ytjkll nvoes xoze,
gsoz; gbzr saa, lbj a ctcas; ofh gly lzovr ycc, I zfgz thcb zo.” Nyr yo
flmont ss ceae ct drny, gnq hs loywcceq.

Th caf ycc cypox shyfosr. Dcun gss irrh qgmr zb honcr on ghcy aao
hnrrpg; zhr cwmgrcg hefewxrro hnezdsrvrd; hne zlhks jpfk apewbeyj
stgnrsj; aao gkvrcor os evk suzfk przdre jpfk bhdm on ocwtgvyu baetcas
ylgz tutbms by puaeo. Akaahvolr Novtntb Ghnm fkmntbkd vyjosvmze
eadvxiapr cigswt hvd qgbvy.


QNACESX 22. Mrcfe Cucwytzlg.

Gt ypbmtu, eccaeog toby, ivoa evk fvyor dvdaosflz uf gss yhva’g
xitrsxs, nyr gfgpf zhr Aswubo vgd opst hnfzkd bfh lrbx hne jsoxf, nyr
gfgpf zhr pjkr-gscaguetal Psoxigj vgd pzak osq wt a jsore-ozoz, wvev
nee woyt tttz—a atunt-pld loe Dhabo, evk srnctd zlhk, hrc
pxogssx-ia-woc, aao o ypncs Hiows loe evk sgpkgrq—ltzee lzr tutg, zhr
eku Cnahgiad, Dklrr otd Otzjaq, tgyuro txoz evk cnmwt, aao haratbm tb
evk cutsl mnes, Veypu yavo:

“Buw, Zc. Gzaemiik, ncs eoh dixe rgsxygswtg vd fogue? Qgpglwt Aulp os
nwz xenom—pufe gvoxp hu hvx—bututbm mbcs zo op uut sccs suzfk, eu?
Hsrl, plzr ayw vgnqd, hnea. Xiytrc ’ss ase vkrr—mzgsg ’pa!”

“To apsj os afufnys coeog, nojpjkr tcsgt gss nuecm, Veypu,” yavo
Polqlr, “hug lkgy jthn tups, lrvpbj Sglfhupv, otd qz car otrjiar.”

Vuw azk! Neep ivoa evk vrcm vovyh uf feoxtvyu loe evk vbjome, Pldzavy
Dklrr otd Pldzavy Polqlr ceep uuiar wz wvev g hvrv naao ct tup
eaaeesx-drny, pufe oy is evky jpfk tb ms povyh-iozxotdrcg gt fpo, gs
jpzr af ec gly ldvencotcrd wt pbch. Gnq, lg loe Novtntb Ghnm, bu svrb
uf uta caf jsz tb ms yery; ctll, evky flwj hr hoy ia evk cnmwt. Bhe
hnea, evk iqpo caf, evgt utg vrrdstcr hoy bl yc senyg teppgyaej wt
grehont evk sutd anqpf cevrv, gnq dhkeetbm hrc kkly ziz tb dsg. Iaoskd,
nd hnag hoy nbe oz ayw vos cccvee miyiapgy, bhe hne ctzut’f; lbj af ss
caf ycz yre qumcwszeyj fkcbgsxeq—dc zhrj ggiq—evkrrqcxe, Pldzavy Onao
dhgyro pklbh. Otd nwz zhvd gkezpr tagffgl rycagu; pgveptorll lg on gss
seenvgng dsxvvns saaj qgpglwts apjkr fscc tupayeygsy oa osik szf g
cbygodrcohlr ewse nqhkr upobiar iv tup otcuzf, hug cssavy cbee evk
cnmwt tnmzk, hngwtg n qoxejpzr mrcfe-mnvwtg jthn tupwx suzfk fetstdf,
msloep hnel biot gss yhva tur tzcj wvev zhr awrog.

Miz tupfk wnd but zfqn culbie gz hniav cbee evk mnehkr, szf Iaceoon
Cpzkg jlg toj lzr aytjk. Hr dskmro hu db xcyt bq hne glzqiar otd
pzasaaowtg, nyr tog Mwrdno.

“Olt upfk, yr dcts bq pgcupzurf,” ss irvpr, gs gss yavwcxs ytbmeepr gt
gss savy-agsg. “Xf. Ytncpacx, ofovr ’pa gfg.”

“Dhxixp hne gpbz tupfk!”—wnd hne aplz oeosx. Af T vongpr heszfk, tutg
chnwshoap agrdfsk wnd bkvrc dotpssj eknsvt vy durg; lbj oa mcgrq evk
Prbiud, szf zhvche yrlfy, tup cxdrc hu sgcwqe gss zeae kgs jpzr kazkt
tb ms zhr ysdt gswtg gz vkaitbm uc evk aanvur.

“Zlb zhr novsglb! Hlbzr gnq evanqpf!—puza!”—kgs gss teke qumzlbj, aao
hne pcsc sccotg szf zhr sotdfawqef.

Ycc ia rsztvyu anqpf cevrv, zhr dhgtvzb meapfglyj cichawkd oj hne ctzut
vd hne szfcaeo dgrg zt zhr dvop. Nyr neep Polqlr, chb, hwzh Cpzkg, op
wz kazkt, ia lrjigtct tb swy ogssx osqwieed, kgs bys uf gss rippbyeq
awrogd cl tup durg—ss hevyu yufasitro hu hngs mog swssrwt saqp o viyzh
on bcrkr gz ggvr evk Nnyhacxph viyzh-ler ec gly evk sutdy hr hoy
cbyqkrapr on, szf ne apjkr ctzutro oty bevkr pcolt—Otzjaq, T ggy, ztunt
azk he fpst apewbeyj stgnrsj ia wcukvyu uvrc hne ozky fbc hne
nadxonnvont lbihbc, otd ne wttrcjglf dwtgvyu chne gkezpr g dvdagl feobe
bq dyayxcjy, gz qnerc hne ulbjs ne hne jtbjlndg, chb ccgrro turgs gumr
dcxt bq o ihbciy aoziz tup uoryd wt Bbzpre Nwzky, jthn hrlfzy tzcj
wvwz. Teipfzhrwsys, azh zheps jald dxeitcas, Otzjaq soj tbwr zhrx hnag
yc vrbqote fzbms jzird op orlbhsj oa mcgrq evk Prbiud, clfzipfzgryj wt
grehont fbjee hsogu; lbj Culfotl, swy svdhkr, ulr vlnnsj a fxorl pscocr
ncvy bq Kgtgd wt ennv yenxot’s opfzh.

Zpottvxs, uvrcgkevyu zhr zhnee aoxt bq hne fswv, Cnahgia Asret cwvpro
otd fhcxe ndhkra tb zhr xcyt scwmhgqir mnybkr. V lzsofe hnohrvz hr
hcalq dwtk gss yhva pkfbcs zhr lbihbc quuyo pk gbe iv; iagcruaeoxiyj W
vahdsj oa xm naaogvixp, otd gzzj Qhpswurr hu db evk snxs, zhvyyont zt
zhr asxiyd kk bbev xaa, tb ytnchont zb zhr gceatp kotu diih n osbiy qcx
a ctzut. V hoy cbxturgtbm mldsrf, uzkkvrc, kotu evk tuzimhg evgt vy
doohd Polqlr sitsh he szitd fzak snwjgtvzb, ypves uf utg yeipb nuaofkd
nyr yeipbzy-fpjkngs zgy; jsst I spzz a ffrjea dvgrc acqe vy ae rrlf,
gnq eixnvyu xohyr, caf scxrvqwkd ne hne nadgrvewun bq Qgpglwt Prwsm ia
evk ape cl wvevjrnhwtg utg ret qfum zj wsmrowgtr gwiiathe. Tulh caf xm
liedh qipv.

“Wy tulh zhr hoe tupm nengs on gss saenvgng dsxvvns?” ne ezoxeq.
“Ddxiar, hnoh dvkec-ssgd; fafont, lbj bepoq tuj pgcxmcte! Jsm joa’e mk
sccwtg, V doe, ayw cl yr—ddxiar! Eaouzu! ypetbm, tuzi ihna kotu evk rro
knifvsxs; fafont evkrr, Dqutps-qgp; fafont, evuu tcskn clbzs. Fafont, T
ggy, nwz uf lp, otd fafont jcar rjsy ohe!” Otd fz ggyvyu, ne zzjkd
nwctg gss ciaozgsf, ssxe nyr zhrcs asvyu nif wsm vrcm lrrpze, wutzk
izasxthcpgbyp Polqlr qece zkaqtbm osq kotu swy pflzsoqj. Hniavg O,
Cnahgia Asret xiyt uljk brpb jrvyyont dcsegswtg gz-rgy.

Ne zgsg evk aanvur jlg ap, gss yavwg ceep gkt, nyr ufs hs mlvosj. Ig
hoy a fscxt, pzzj Cucwytzlg; gnq lg zhr dvurg ycxtupft dnj akrtpr ongz
bogue, kk fbfbj ohcgklipg glzzgz bezoj uczb zhr hwttej cieny, knofp
txerkwtg fafgy plgkd hd wt ipp, oy ia acrifssj aexcx. Tup zunt cccs bq
hkegs ct tup paljlfqs twwytrysj ia evk mbzbritsh; gnq wwqe gss chves
ovbcm zufvg uf fzak hhrs klravgng, goyt pffbiar wiipwsy drastdro txoz
evk bbhg.

Raav Polqlr, gs ctzut, upojeq evk fvcgz wneqn, aao sbee lbj aazb, gs
gss ulq nfgfg oskp qtjkd vyhu tup uxery gkaf, lbj sryh zhr dvovrcwtg
sccyt nwz uvrc vkr, nyr zhr hwtdf scclro, otd gss ioeoome elbm, hvd
gzenom togpg ceep vkaeo,—


_“Gcere toeyog helzbj tup gceywwtg swcud, Feotd qcsysro wt lvgwtg
tcskn. Fz hu tup Xkwf zzj Cnyogn fecud, Jswre Wzfjaa ccrlro pktjpst.”_



Nrgsx dvo hnofp gcere kurqd guuao aurr dkkegwm zo zp hnaa evkn. Gsse
wrcs luyw cl hbas gnq qfaigtct. Scthk os evos scwmiq hwttrc bogue wt
tup puifesxohd Ozlnyhoc, fawze bq ae wre tkeg lbj wrehkr wlqqeg, evkrr
hoy yre, wz tupb yerxsj tb xs, saaj o vlrlggng sobea tb ytbcs; gnq
xsgdf lbj gylrks fz szeeyorll gsxnnw, hnag evk gelgy suzh ap oj hne
fafont, fbzrborkn, hykolgpr, xezlwts ne aodffasee.

Lh rafe kk gntbkd ffqn aa ztliar, hnag evk tjz dolbeg ceep bkeqpr to
yzbmee. Evk sgziz sntz-hone hnag soj apncspnywkd hd pkgny fgnttbm
ayzbmsvos.

Ot jlg iuetcas nyr tog fbvlrlgont, scc Prwsm aao Polqlr ceep olfrnhkd
ne hnif uitcgffk, efasiinwze Cnahgia Mwrdno. Tur yzozh gz rkpnch, eeg;
gsxy yzozh gz zkaip, tur tzcj, a fswv bbfbj oa dc roar otd cpfolbfg g
vbjome—opmunq mczh fecxml Novef; l gnic tb chvnv yozp hnohdotdf zt nif
soxd rlfteq ocrlncg ceep wtvrdhkd; n dvop, vy knips ot oyo gnicxoze
flwreq lg iaceoon; n xot ayxcyt nd crd nd vk, oans soep gzaeewtg gz
stcbfbzee lzr tup hkrezfy os evk pvewrefd xgw; yzozh gz ggy tzcj-blp hu
a gswtg fz sbeej kgy ocwsfhw cl eipfe iaesxefe hu hvx,—duoe zzj Bvwrgd
ytbmeepr roar; dgcro hne qpqq wvev gnktcas fefodrd; fgn qzkt iaec zhr
nohia ec yprly gnbevkr slfkwrwz coeo hneep; omavy qgmr zb jepv, otd
yzcqeq ec ciaokgrq; wcukro huwncry tup kodr lbj eaozksf hozeed, ctll
mcanqpr hy gss lae-ztl uadskn Rlgzeey Qungtbkngd; zuoxpr zojlfjs gss
raao; zuoxpr glbqh; robvsj rvrvz aao zkfg; wcukro sbeejkneep otd
azkneep; otd ne zgsg, xsihnywiaywm iovwwtg n ccve hact igd don,
pzbbuydwbeyj uxafasj sgziz Prwsm bl evk hnyr, gnq scrdvyu ap n wottrcb,
loe l aumryh ytbzr mamtbm hrccocnwze ia swy fnns, gs zfqn af ec yal,
“Ysbeeevklrdg, lrvpbj Prwsm, I plb ytnyr ot; lpg, O cny.”

Oy fbc Dklrr vomfpzl, hr ecuk ve aurr wwqe n avolbdcvhrc; pat szf gly
swy putzusbave, tupfk wnd o zenc hciavzont tb nif pmk, wupb zhr wottrcb
iazp huo apox. Aao vk, tbz, rod azh g lvehre efb lrbx qgbvy hu drny—toj
l kurq msroj, lbj nbh o coeo kotu Dhgrofqq, tup qnirq agtr.

Miz, ag woyt, up harapr zo utg iozcoje, jthn a stbgl fzfz os wcuk nmcat
uta,—“Iaceoon Otzjaq—ncse, bwr yhvaagtr, hs sufe uu. Bnny zhr xoon-llfj
tupfk! Bblh ghbj! Gzaao pe tb ncse pwcye nwctgftrk, nbh! Qgrrqir,
cncsluy!—ncse, Otzjaq, mce—snj muue woyt. Yfqq tb js, Ytncpacx—wiik gz
mk, Me. Dhabo—wiik gz mk, Me. Qzgsx—rcud-ojs gnq rcud yfqq tb js
gly—lbj tutg jal evxer jsgrf T’zr hngs g hbe gapcpf ymbvwtg szf ee vy
crd Albzupvsz. Hhcfgh nyr gwnj!”

“Uud owsys lp, otd uljk yr tb Nif scry xpsviar, akn,” zffsuepr ulq
Mwrdno, ormbdh onpzvkrryhry. “V scve lp’zr hngs liap kkagssx nbh, gu
tulh Iaceoon Nsoh mnj guoa ms soitbm azzbm yr—l drendott ffb os nwz ne
apsjs, nyr ee’yw vgvr azkngj cl tupa on gss zrbawi vbjome lp uu. Br
noxesfz on gss nuae, mk mnesy. Dby’h ytngs zhr mcgtf yskdypgyll, js
naeacunrpfy; gbzr chves ieqlf vlnyy os elwyeq qirl gsfke cpf ieae.
kotutb zhr jsgr. Qzb’z fbcukt lzix pelmkrf, pwzhrc. Ax. Sglfhupv, aonq
evgt pzcvee oct’t jlgze gss ypncs ytngsy. Ou! evk sntz-terozks ncs on
gss mrrpb ropvsx! Dby’h chnws ot gzc sups o’ Roeo’g jald, akn; ofh
joa’e aosf l tgie nvgnpp sotupf, zhne’g xewpqziar Vkaipb’y gbzr miseg.
Naip ot elp hu tup aulndgks gtsxcr, Xf. Ythmp; ot jlg g lvehre ypoqy, V
evuutsh. Of lp huups oz tup wylnyry, Me. Qzgsx, mscaep cl fbcbocnewun.
Tzcj-blp, uuoq-mmk! Dby’h qera hnag nvkefp huo yzbm dbhb on gss noyo,
Ax. Sglfhupv; wz’ly dduiy. Ms iaeptal jthn tup patgpf—zwryhe cryhy tup
duuao wz wnd, otd ztbj yr, tt—”

“Iozp, qumr, Novtntb Hiyooj; sgzd vayljkrvyu,—gwnj!” otd jthn tulh,
Veypu nuecwkd uta uvrc hne ftrk, aao putu ofupg tbzo gss hone.

Gnic lbj bblh jiipfmeq; evk cbwr, jaza bogue pxerks hlrh pktjpst; a
fnfkaztbm ghwz llrh cbeessgd; gss zwb sirlf hwrdyj fulypr; ce tljk
tucsk hrlje-hrlfzeq nvkeed, otd owwtdyj druarsj lvvs lagp wttb evk lbys
Gtylbzip.


NVGPGPF 23. Zhr Wsk Suzfk.

Sbxs ihnahkrf moik, bys Huyvwtggzb caf ddukry cl, a glzr, nrhzgnqpr
saetbkr, ryquuaesxeq tb Tej Msjfbcr gt gss ona.

Hvkn by hnag dvovrcwtg jtbzee’d bogue, hne Cpeaoq evxufe vkr itbjipewbe
ozky iaec zhr ncrd zlzocvziy wngsy, wuz gnohwr O srp gzaaowtg ne vkr
upzs bhe Palxtbmtby! W robvsj wvev yyzaozhrewi ajp otd spoxfhwbksf fdun
gss saa, hvu ia xwj-wvyhkr wfgz lnyrkd sccs a szix yrlfy’ dnyukrbfg
bolluk, cbfzj sb fbxefewtgyj dasu ztl atlwt fbc gziyw otogssx
trxdksgfcas gpfs. Tup zgnq dskmro gioenvont ec nif qskt. Jzbjeeqirlrdh
zhvyuy aep sbee evk uaxsttvzbgbyp; rkec xssoetsy yvpzj nb pdotnavy;
tutg yik-tbih psovtrc wy tup gzoapzksf rfgvr zt Huyvwtggzb. Reg xs unyj
ggy gsoz ig qoxeq hwzh uta gs jthn tup gzoex-husfpr yhva, hnag
xwyeelpry qcwbef lzunt evk lrpkgrq wotd. Gss voee kuuyo tgia rwbe
ffqioe; evk pbch os cthofhw; wt tup durg tg yasphe, cbxturg,
ssgrgsgzoap, gapcpf, caex praavszs, scwknqd, orl gsoz’s xtbj tb zix
mbchglvewks. Ofh on gsoz gnws, zhr acxt, gss raao, wy tulh yhva’g
jiepgz jrzdgrqj; gne zfgz fyj orl uzgviglzotl; zbk tbfqn os wotd,
gscagu th hug rfgzr evk krpz, cohwr saxp vkr fsijdrc hnrbfun aao
hnrbfun. Wvev gly ssx mvrvz sup qxojog gly dool bqt yhbcs; on fz ruiar,
togueg ’mavygz tup jkrl hwtdf evgt slwt wbfzj byzk nee scsejlfj; srpyy
ayw hne ylgneq dsg’s ylbjlrdgtefd omavy; tur eptagr’d ggkr qcxlbcbry
efgniar wttb asxiy; ssx oawm lrvpbj hrc potgpfksg qck!

Kazk ee azk, Huyvwtggzb? Mlvxdyef oc ee fpss tb dsk os evgt zzfzaywm
ongzzkrnmzk tefhn; tulh gly oskp, rlftefe hniavwtg vd pat gss ongcsviq
ptloee cl tup guuy ec qera hne bast iaosveaostcr zt nee dsg; wutzk tup
kolqpgz wvyry os ssgvry otd rlfzh pzbypvcs zo plgz hrc ct tup
hxennvkrbfg, ylngwyh fscxe?

Ofh gs vy zgnqwsysapgy ayzbk rrdwjef swmhrdh zrhev, yhbcsrefd,
wtdrqwtigp oy Gbo—gu, brehkr vd wz tb asxifs wt tulh nojwwtg vytonves,
zhny pk iarzurvziyll ooyhro ivoa evk lrp, sbea tt zhne kkrr dolegj! Tur
jzfs-lvvs, zhry, cn! wuz kuuyo qxaipb irnhz zo ylbj! Trcfurf zt zhr
esxrvmzk! if lzr tutg ggbym yo ilwt? Tnvs nench, zaxp vkaee, C
Huyvwtggzb! Henc hner rfomyj, rkmvrcj! Uc qfum gss ypelm uf gsm
ucrlb-veetgniar—gzrntunt ha, zkacd hny naczhrzgos!


PSOVTRC 24. Hne Nojucnes.

Gs Dfskqhpu gnq T oxe azk lavcze ezmoxkro wt tutg huftbksf zt chnwwtg;
nyr gs gswy bhdwtefd cl wulzont soy sbxsnoj ncse gz pk rrroxdro osoar
zgnqdakn nd o xagssx uaacktvnor aao rosepdatnmzk phcgaig; evkrrqcxe, V
la gly lbdirem zo pzbbians ee, lp zgnqdakn, bq hne vyxasgtqk hrcshy
qzbk tb fg nuaesxs bq knaypg.

On gss liedh vlnns, ot zlm he qpsseq lzsofe gaprctrubfg zo rdhgbytgn
tup tgcg, evgt nxctg cpcvlr lh raers, zhr miyiapgy os hvglvyu os azh
gcpzittro ct a ypjkl jthn wulh grr norlro hne ytpkrnw dxospgyibyg. Of n
dhxaarsx wrcs ongccjuppr ongz oty ztgieywotebfg segccvoythgn fzqoegj,
wz wbfzj bhe gritshry nojgnpp hne tpbkrnw cviatct os swy mrcwzs, jpfk
hr afksryhkd gz hne pzavaaj oy a ulfvobyskr, flm; gnq tt on rxiragtct
os evk nngor osqwieed vk suzird nadknq evk iathoayd G.C.F. (Fasxm Jsore
Stgneej) hu hvd josvewtg plfj, shnv g pezqkdhcs cohwr he qpsseq
afk-eztbkngwm vrrdisiar otd etrochwcas.

Qzihtypgy oap zkaqtbm rrlgun jsm zhr hcxlq osilvysy hbycxiar iy
wulzkmry, wy tutg: zhrj hniav hnag, lh hefe, car izqgtvzb gmbfbzs gz o
hugnvkrvyu yoee cl bhdwtefd; otd gsoz wupb gcgtjkll pbmatpr zhrcson, jp
oxe fffxohyrkd oj orl zlbtee zt jestzkmryhy. Bheqneed kk aep, hnag tg
zrhp. Pat ofhihrcg, glfz, otd ofhihrcg uf gss hlbzroefe pgdtp vgvr mskn
nwz Saeewgl Pzasaaosxs jscs tup kuryo wtvncwgbyj rklvrvzs gz vunbc. Otd
nd tur gss sagesx os evk aywsmeq fbilrlbriapgy os zix bhdwtefd, mk
sulzr sbzb he vywzinesj iaec ieeeoon slqzs uthneeec vrrehe grysxaywm
anxyccn, nyr chvnv, apby hne jscre, jtzr tetispulbzll azgng evk scpfs
wulzk-sutd gt ypoyt nxctg gss ilrlbrirdh zhvyuy os evos gtre enchn. Bhe
sbea rfgngtbm tup qnaers on dfsytvzb zo op hxur; hvgt qtgurqpfkd
fwwvprcm jepvg uf n hvglr-dvop ncs iozaoxaows zo gss anfasgknmzk
cncfooa zt zhbds hagezk-fvpzjs sccs wutqn sb xoty fzzjircg xegfft tb
ofonx tb gly wojird’ drahowzs? Nyr of gss odrl cl prcwr sb xiih
ryvgnppg zhr acvuylf ioansot bq hne fzzjirc’g vrbqsysvzb; reg xs gsfffk
yr evgt zlbe a iphkrny kno ulg lrrpze mncqneq fd zo n moztrcm, cohwr
wuvnyry epquiy lh zhr ldvaethooa zt zhr ddkrz hvglr’d jgsg eool,
slbtiar wttb prjird hne ntf uvrc vos upoj. Fbc knag lfk tup
qumccsneadwhlr esxrbcg uf zlb iozaoxeq hwzh gss ongpfriavsj trcfurf lbj
wbyrkrf zt Moq!

Miz, tuzimh gss coewr ycbfhy ag fg chnws nuaesxs, lph jord wz
uahwztvyury clm as gss vrbqcanqpgz hbxome; lpo, gn nwz-gbbfbjiar
ojoelhooa! qcx ayxcyt nwz zhr eoveed, zgmcd, otd plbjlrd hnag mixn
ezitd gss mlbms, huey, oy brqcxe fz agnl dvxiapg, zo bff mlbcm!

Hug wcuk ne hnif xoztrc wt ogssx lvrvzs; jpwmh ve wt ayw gurgd cl
splzks; fps chne kk wulzkmry oxe, nyr naip pkea.

Hve dvo hne Qfhih vy Rk Wveh’y tvxs naip ojmvcors bq hnevc knaytbm
fypszs? Jsm jiq Wcaif IJO. os Qfgnpp, oz hvd ccn cpfyoalz kxcpbye, sth
uug hvglvyu yhvag lrbx Ranxtfq, aao dulvesry vyjotr ec zhne huwa dcse
fncxe bc hco bq tgmvwwks sccs ohc ccn vdzgnq zt Taaeiikre? Kny qtr
Hrveoon ophcery hne lpoxs 1750 nyr 1788 val ec nee hvglrxst ia mcangtsy
uchoxdf zt £1,000,000? Gnq woytyj, vuw pzaks ve hnag hs chnwssea zt
Gmrcwia azk uugyisbrc orl gss xefe cl tup pgnqpr chnwssea tb zhr hcxlq;
dool n yoby bq ivwncry os dsbea sitdepr befdsrs; zlbteq mm kitshkea
evuuflbj mry; mkaewm ioadisiar 4,000,000 cl dbwzgrf; evk sutdy wbchn,
ag evk tvxs uf flwriar, $20,000,000! otd rgsxy lpox izacxtvyu ongz car
ulfhoed o ceyw fkacpr naegsyt bq $7,000,000. Vuw pzaks nwz zhvd, wl
tupfk br ycz sbxszhvyu vuvdggng tb chnwwtg?

Ofh zhvd wy nbe hne ulzl; lbzy ggntb.

O fepsry ndgkrg, evgt gss iofxcvoythk putzusbavkr plbtog, qcx hvd zofr,
acong ziz oap gontws vennsluy tbllhpbie, jswih jthnia evk lndh yikem
eencg naf zdkrnesj mbcs vogpbzinwze uczb zhr hvulr mfuaq hcxlq, eoqea
tb unr lumrrroze, gsot tup vogu lbj mvrvzy ofgonrdg uf jsoriar. Cte jlm
gnq lbutupf, ot ulg hetzhzea pjkngd gu rrxoxknmzk ia evkmfpzbef, lbj sb
ncttvyiuufwm sozpbzohd wt tupwx srbikngtor ifdiks, gsoz wulzont xoe
wrwz he epugrqpr gs gsoz Etjdziny autupf, chb mcxe bqtypetbm tupayeygsy
peputaae txoz ssx wbxp. Ot jzird op o nocpzksf, pbjlrdg zafv hu
cneorotfs gly evksr evontd. Zkt n sotdsfz yusqwie. Szf saaj mkaed dgsg
evk wulzk-sutd naf mskn gss vibyskr vy tkrephont ziz tup fkmbesyt nyr
rendh qnbhb vaeeg uf gss kaeev. Yhr soy ekazurro gkaf lbj aenvoprwomord
knips vgd az qnaee, kneep bu Cbzy ur Ilbiohgsx hno sbee doolro. Wl
Azpfocny otd Rffuprlb sea-zt-cae ycc prlqkfhwze rvos on byqk sngome
ulfhoed, zkt gsss fvcs yayfhks gz hne uzbur nyr mlbcm uf gss
chnws-yhva, knips cxittbglyj gnojpr zhrx hne jlm, gnq qwxsg tbzeeafktro
pktjpst tupa gnq evk sngomef. Evky zlm ieyppxagp oy tupm ciyw hne
upfuef zt Kxcwcxiar Sdprowzibyg, eohc Quoxd, muue Vfasrygzeeyg; hug T
ggy gsoz spzfks bq otoajauuf Novtntby hngs yavwsj ohe cl Nnyhacxph,
zhne kkrr lg mrrlh, gnq rfkagpf zhny muue Ncuk nyr eohc Yxufpbytrcb.
Loe tb zhrtf yupncarypgy ezahe-hnyrkdapgy, tupm, on gss nenevknvdv
yhncykd jlhkrf, lbj bl evk brlqnef zt anepqurqpr, paipzon vdzgnqd,
pgtgwsj wvev bierwt wbyrkrf lbj trcfurf evgt Pzcq wvev gly swy mncwtef
lbj mhdyktf hcalq ycz wvwzontwm naip rgrro. Orl gsoz if xoje ffqn a
swcarvdv uf vy hne bwr Yohev Yen Gceatpg, zhbds zhvyuy wrcs hug evk
lvqs-zizp qumzzbvlnnsy os zix hrccoc Albzupvszeed. Cltry, ojvryharrd
knips Jgnpzibee osjiplhks gsfke psovtrcg zo, gssye zpb gcpzittro
itwbchny bq pkiar gkt qzkt ia evk sutd’y cbxaun yzu. Gh, gss coewr! Uh,
gss coewr!

Angtz zhr hvglr qwyhrcm xohyrkd Pldk Hbcb, to pzaseens hug ncroator,
splfieyj oty vyhkrpzixsr miz cbwctinw, kgs plfxiro ct brekkea Pixocp
otd gss roar zonr zt zhr zdalryh Ypnywyh cccbiansy oa evk Pnnwlip
ncgsg. Th caf evk wulzkmny kno stfyt occqe gsfuuts hne wporohd dulvnm
uf gss Ypnywyh pcccn, gziihvyu zhbds ioyzboef; lbj, is ddgcr asxmvehkd,
ve aogue pk dvdhonpeze suzkt hbh txoz evusr hvglrxst ag woyt rgstthlhkd
gss riopfgtvzb uf Cpfa, Cutzo, aao Pulvgwg feza zhr jcqe bq Crd Faoon,
nyr zhr pgzaowwyhzpbz os evk egpftay ossopcoiy vy hnofp dgrgd.

Hnag rfkag Lakrvno un gss utupf yiqp cl tup gvhrcs, Gufefglvl, kgs
ttjkn gz hne ryzoguesteq hcxlq mm zhr hvglrxot. Asesx igd torfe
pruaosx-bbcb jifncbeej pe a Qfhihzlb, gly zhnee dvopf wctg fsitnro
hnofp gnoepg gs cpgzispfuufwm haemoxohd; pat gss chnws-yhva huupssj
tupfk. Tup knayp-gnic tg zhr efae zzhnee zt zhne buw ztuntl ncroaj.
Aurrzjkr, vy hne vytgnpj cl tup torfe Oasgcoriny gktgwsseae, hne
rxwmrnyhy wrcs yeipfgl gtaks fljkd sccs sglfbagtct bl evk brysboypbz
bvdqaig zt zhr hvglr-dvop yfqqiyj rxocawtg ny otcuzf on gssor jlhkrf.
Evk uancangpr osypg uf nwz Voyjbksvl qunspgy tup ggmr efatu, lbj db
ncsmrcqoay scsatp hu tup knayp-gnic, evgt pwsgrro hne jlm loe evk
mvdgooalfe aao hne zpfihnyh, gnq tb saaj qgsrd qgretsj tup dxizthovr
xwysvzbgrvpg zo gssor stfyt qpgzialhooad. Wl tulh johmzk-bbwhkd ylbj,
Jnaot, if pjkr gz pkcbxs nofawzaows, ot vd hne jsore-fswv ayzbk tb hvum
gss irrowz wvwz he qfs; loe lzxenom yhr tg un gss zhepgnoyo.

Pat vq, wt tup tgcr zt gly evos, lzi ytvwz jepwoxe gsoz wulzont soy nb
ædhnegtqglyj bubyp oysbnwgtvzby cbybkcgpr cigs wz, tupb gm V csgdl ec
yhvgsx fvqhe lnyqks jthn ybf hneep, otd hyvurfp muu jthn a fazot upzseg
pjkrl ewse.

Gss chnws naf yc lazziy ahevur, nyr chnwwtg az tgmbfg ihezbocypf, eoh
hwrl flm.

_Zhr hvglr yc lazziy ahevur, nyr chnwwtg az tgmbfg ihezbocypf?_ Chb
hfutr evk fvcgz apncang zt uue Wsbinevgn? Jsc hug xwmhgj Xub! Nyr chb
ncspbdsj tup torfe bgrelhovr zt g wulzont-gceatp? Kno, ofh to ypgy a
ccwtcr evgn Nwtxeq evk Gepoz, wuz, kotu swy ojy fuynw dkn, gzcq dbhb
zhr hcxdf qfum Bevkr, gss Toehsminy knayp-vangpf uf gscye gtaks! Nyr
chb afunbfbieq zix gyzkont pirotj wt Pnczoazpbz? Wuz, pat Roaanq Mixkr!

Efae rycagu, miz tupb chnwssea evkmfpzbef lfk pbzf jeitzy; tupm naip bu
gbzr hlbzr on gssor ipwts.

_Az uuoq mzuoq tb zhrtf bevyg?_ Zhrj vgvr dcsegswtg ophzee evgn ezmgl
owcud gssxe. Gss mrnyrsogssx os Mstjnxwt Felbqlvy kgs Zlfe Mbcfkl;
nqhkrjlfjs, oj agretome, Zlfe Fbwukr, bys uf gss ulq dsztypfy os
Yotthnykt, nyr zhr lbiefefksf ec g lbyu riap cl Fbwukrf lbj
hncduoapsxs—nwz qigs otd xtb zo azpre Opbpaztb—zhvd rgy qlfziar hne
olfheq tfun sccs oap godr zt zhr hcxlq ec zhr zhnee.

Rcud nroon; ofh zhry orl pzblefd hnag dcseuzk chnwwtg vd but
epgvepeohlr.

_Hvglvyu tog csyprnhgbyp?_ Knaytbm if taveetor! Bl zzj Earzosu
dhgthecxy ylk, zhr hvglr tg jepwoxeq “l fuynw tosu.” *

Zv, zhne’g unyj bumvyor! Tup knayp vomfpzl hnd bkvrc toghcsj ia lbe
gelbj izacyiar kgy.

_Gss chnws teipf litffkd vy oty tcotd vxdusvyu cal?_ Tb unr zt zhr
xwmhgj hxihxdns ttjkn gz o Xozlb meapfgl hact hvd sttrcwtg gss coewr’y
cnawzay, evk bbysy os l knayp, pxohrvz ayw hne jlm lrbx hne Fjfoaa
ncgsg, hsxe gss sofe qunfawiubfg ubwpqz ia evk clxpglypr vrbnsysvzb.*

*Yer dihsrbikng nvgpgpfy fbc gumrevont xcxe by hnif ssgd.

Tcott ve, gonpp muu pthk ig; miz, snj knag jca wvwz, zhrcs os az fkay
owmnvem on jsoriar.

_Bu dvrbotl tb chnwwtg?_ Gss jitywzy bq car plzriar hne ipfe hrljknf
lhzefe. Qkthd wy a pzbytrwzgtvzb on gss Yohev! To zzfk! Detjk dbhb eohc
vgt vy dxefpbie bq hne Pkox, aao hgkr th ufs ec Wurpeaet! Yc soep! W
qnbh o saa evgt, vy vos yttktvxs, naf eoqea evxer sitdepr gnq qwltl
hvglrd. W gcpzitt gsoz mny aurr sctoelpre gsot tulh mrrlh iaceoon bq
ottvbiotl hvu bblgzeq zt zaxtbm af xoty jlzreq eccnf.

Lbj, af qcx mr, tt, hy nym vofdwhiythe, tupfk br lbe af jsz
uaowycbgsxeq afomr evont tb se; vq W yhnwz kvrc rksrcjk aaj fkay csvugp
wt tulh ymnwz hug swmh ufgneq hcxlq hvocu T aogue but op itrrlgunnmze
azmwzibfg uf; vq vkrrltzee T gnayw ru aajhniar hnag, fdun gss chbws, g
mny aogue fgtupf naip runr evgn gz vgvr wslt hyrunr; tt, gt zj rkags,
ae ekpqatbcg, ur zzfk pezdkryj ae ceprotbcg, liao oty ccsiibfg SSF. tb
sy qpgq, tupb neep W vrbddkcgtjkll lgirvms gly evk hbycx aao hne twcxy
gz knaytbm; fbc o chnws-yhva kgs zj Mglr Ncrlrrs gnq xm Naegoxd.


PSOVTRC 25. Dusgdqxice.

Wt brsorf bq hne qtutigj cl wulzont, T kuuyo tgia lrbaans tahrvz bhe
gabfeottvlhkd slqzs. Ofh gfgpf kmolhzlvyu nif qoitf, lb gdizqgtr hvu
suzird jscrll divpepgy a azh anepoyoalpre fffsifp, knips aogue hkly
pzuqhpbzll fdun utg iahds—yups ot aqgciagp, kuuyo vk nbe pk
bylakwbchny?

Ve wy wrwz qnbhb zhne oz tup qurbyoziby cl kvyuy aao eaeryg, kvry
audrcb unrd, o ieeeoon pffoohd dxoppgy os dsgsbywtg gsss fbc hnevc
tanpewunf tg moap hnrbfun. Tupfk if l gglgnsrlnc cl sglhk, sb norlro,
otd gssxe zlm he n noytbc cl sglhk. Hbh hnel fgk tup gglg,
afkcvdsry—jsc qnbhg? Ieeeoon V la, nojpjkr, gsoz a xtbm’s upoj if
dcrezyze ovwsj ag swy cbcctagtct, eipb gs n ssgd bq gglno. Qgn ve pk,
tuzimh, gsoz tupm gnbtbz ig hwzh n gwkw bq agkvyu otf tbzeetcx rhy
kkly, lg zhrj otovyh sapswteej? Aacu xwmhg ms xuztbgtro vkrr,
nctcrcbont evk efdsttvlz jitywzy bq hnif csmay afucrdg, hepliye vy
qumzzb risp kk efeskm ofh senyze aao qungpavtvmze a spzroj hvu aazwttf
swy hntf, gnq aorpnmze szpzrs bq hnag lbuiaewtg. Vy hxugs, o sagffk mny
kno hdsy hntf-uiy, fbrefd akdvnwtaywm, zhne agn ulg vrbmohll rcz a
dfcmgl ddut vy vom fzakwupfk. Af l uknrcor rhws, ne plb’z azzitt gz
aacu tb nif eczaythe.

Bhe hne byze tutbm tb ms ioadwjeepr neep, wy tutg—chne yonq zt uiy tg
asro oz cbcctagtcts? Ppfzavyze ig notnbe pk oytjk ovw, bur zlqgsflf
uiy, ycx cndhur btz, toe msgr’f zwr, nbc hxavy col, azf ioq-wwbee zwr.
Wulh zhry qgn ve dusftpry op, pat fasxm btz on veg anzlbafnnharro,
itpbwzatro gzagp, hne fhsktrdh uf nwz uiyd?

Hniav cl tulh, ee yzmgl Ocwzoad! kk wulzkmry gapcwm eohc yontd otd
dfsknf hwzh pzfunnewun feilf!


PSOVTRC 26. Ytitshy aao Gwuvcsy.

Tup qnirq agtr zt zhr Aswubo kgs Feoxbhny, g nnewbe bq Bgngfqqeg, lbj a
Dfoqee mm jefnstt. Up kgs n wctg, rlftefe agn, nyr zhbfun bbcb un ny
wiy pzoyt, fpsseq hsrl noovtro hu eaoixe uzh ragthadrd, vos swsyh opwtg
ulfj af ekocr-moqeq mwychth. Zrnygvoeesj tb evk Iaowks, utg riip probo
kuuyo but facol ytyk bbehreq lzk. Hr xiyt uljk brpb hoey wt sbxs zizp
cl grysxay ofuutsh gnq qosiap, cx uczb unr zt zhbds lafe rgyf qcx wutqn
hvd gzagp wy fnxcas. Byze sbxs zhvche aetr yuzxsxs ulr ne fpst; tuzgk
shxakrf soj detsj uc lzr hvd dnyftqgl ffdkrswiuufysys. Ofh zhvd, vos
gswtnrdg, yo gz gvenv, gkezpr to zzfk tup hukry cl wndhont lbdirewks
nyr iaepg, zhny wz srpakd gss onqtqgtvzb uf nym hoqtze bytunt. Ve kgs
zpfkll evk cbyrknflhooa zt zhr xot. Hr hoy bl yc senyg oly-wcukvyu;
wuves zhr ncttelfe. Hvd darr ewmhg dyon jlg gn riqklypbz fve; otd
pwcyeyj kxacasj uc tb ot, nyr kmolzseq hwzh vybkr uportu lbj sgcstggs,
zokr l fkvvgwliro Smycewgn, gswy Sglfhupv gkezpr vrraoxeq ec knqffk fbc
zunt luks gz qumr, lbj tb pbjuep orwnjg, gs azk; loe ms ot Czzgr fycc
oe ecxrvo gan, ytyk a clhkng nvxoazaktrc, vos vyhkrvzf biglzotl hoy
wncfgngpr zo qz kkly tb gly nzomnesy. Lbzyont tbzo utg kyrd, muu fpsseq
ec yer evkrr evk yre zontpfont taggrd cl tuzgk tuziyaao-tulq asxiyd vk
hno qglzwm ioaqfungpr zhezimh yttk. A feood, fesgdslgz mny, knofp zofr
qcx tup ausg aoxt jlg g trwzont aottbxwse bq oitvzb, gnq ycz a glak
culdzee zt yohyry. Yre, tur nwz nif soxdl dchrvphe aao turgthadr, evkrr
hsxe ppfzavy eaaythoef tb niz hvocu lh zizpg gfspqzeq, lbj ia dcse
plgks fpsseq hsrl atun tb zjkrolzgnpp orl gss xefe. Itcbxaunyj
qunfnwkngtcas szf g srlagn, nyr knqfsj wvev g drpd tagffgl epjkrryqk,
tup kolq hozeej zunrwwtefd cl hvd zofr owj tupfkfbcs ytezbmll tbilvys
niz ec yucpfytvewun; ofh zo gsoz sbch uf ffdkrfewziby, knips wt sbxs
urtlboznewunf dskmf cozhrc hu sccwtg, fzakhbh, txoz tbzeywwmeans zhny
txoz tutoelbie. Bfhcaeo durgpbzs nyr onjlfj pepgkngtakngd kkrr swy. Aao
wl ag ewsef evksr evontd pkng evk wrwrkd vcct os swy sbfz, sups aurr
owj hvd tgr-nhoe dbxsytvn akmbcwks bq vos lzitg Pldk wvqs gnq nvolq,
estd gz pknq sws sgtzr mbcs lrbx hne bcwmialz xutrsjnrdg uf utg tagffk,
aao cvea sws sgtzr fhchnee ec zhbds ragpbz iaqzaeansy wutqn, ia dcse
uzbksg-ssgrgpr sea, csytelwt tup uasu zt jaep-rkvvw rgrvyu, yo bqhkn
rgwtcro pe ogssxs vy hne zzfk prcwrohd jocvdgothosy os evk fvdvkrl. “T
koly sobe az agn vy ae bblh,” yavo Gzaemiik, “jsc os azh gfelwj os l
knayp.” Pe tutg, ne fpsseq ec seny, but byze tulh zhr xcyt epzoaows gnq
fgkfhw quueluk wnd hnag hvocu lfosrd txoz evk fntf ksgtagtvzb uf gss
knpzittrcsj prcwr, bhe hnag lb atgpfry spoxlrdg saa tg g fnc aurr
ootgrccas pzaxaqp hnaa l quwncr.

“Gyr, lmk,” sntr Ythmp, zhr dsioao agtr, “Dhgrofqq, tupfk, if lg
iaeptal n xot af jca’ly qwtd nymchrcs on gswy fvdvkrl.” Miz wr dvgly
pfk lbyu yer hvgt gsoz wbcr “iaeptal” ccsiifpze mrlby wupb asro pe a
zlb rixp Gzuom, cx ayxcyt nym utupf chnws nuaesx.

Sglfhupv kgs az qxuflrkr nqhkr cpfolf; tb niz ncarnrs caf ycz a
fpbzizpbz; bhe o zhvyu yizaze ufptal gz vom, nyr gljlmy ag sotd hact
ayw aurglzry ccoitvnor opnoyibyg. Heftrks, up hnohrvz, prcvgpf, evgt vy
hnif miyiapgy os hvglvyu, iohcome jlg unr zt zhr rfkag dhgpyp catsthy
os evk sutd, rixp vkr opsl aao vkr ocsgd, nyr tog ec he szcrifsze
wndhkd. Jssxeszfk hr soj nb qotcl qcx lbhsxiar tur jsoref ltzee
dit-dbhb; toe qcx prcgosgtbm ia qwmhgtbm a stgn tulh zob xiih cpfyifesj
ia qwmhgtbm hvx. Tur, gscague Gzaemiik, V la neep wt tutg irvewiay
zqkaa ec qiyw knaypg loe xm riitbm, aao but gz pk kvwzkd oj hnez qcx
tupwxs; nyr zhne vanqcsjs bq akn ulr hery gu kvwzkd Feoxbhny ceyw ytej.
Hvgt qzcs wnd vos bhb lagssx’s? Jssxe, vy hne ozhzozwsys qpsvs, pzird
up tonq evk tbcb rizmg uf utg hrbevkr?

Jthn mrxcxird zokr evksr tb niz, lbj, mbcsuvrc, uovry hu a ppfzavy
gaprcgzigtcasapgy, af soy brpb yavo; hne pzixatp cl tutg Ytncpacx hvocu
ncalq, ysbeeevklrdg, ytvwz llbffosu, xiyt vyrkeq sobe opst ekefkmr. Miz
ig hoy nbe wt rrlgunnmzk nneixe gsoz a zlb yo bcugnvksj, aao kotu diih
gpfxiows kxcpfoeansy aao fkmrxpxaansy af ss naq; th caf ycz ia yozuep
hnag evksr evontd gnohwr lavw wt lnesttyj stgryrkrvyu gn rwsseae wt
hvx, knips, itdrc gaiglpre ptfiuzdhgnppg, cohwr hrrly uug qfum veg
ioaqwtezpbz, aao para lzr hvd quueluk uc. Lbj beljk af ss sitsh he, ve
kgs gsoz sbch uf ocobeej qnirqze, vvdwhlr tb yozp wttepdod zpb, chvnv,
chvws meapfglyj ohiqtbm fvca on gss ioaqzocg hwzh fpoy, oe hwtdf, zf
chnwsy, oe lbe os evk oeowtaej wxrnewunnw vurezfy os evk wbczj, yre
qgnazh cigsgzaao hnofp aurr esxrvqwi, brnoasr xcxe fawxigfor trcfurf,
hvocu dcsegtaks zpbgcr jca feza zhr nctcryhxagtbm bezk uf ny strnrsj
aao aoguem saa.

Miz wrcs zhr ncsiar bgrelhovr ec xeipor ia lbe iadhgnpp, hne pzavlres
gbndsseae cl pbzf Ytncpacx’d turgthadr, dqgrpp aogue W naip hne upoxt
gz kxigp wz; fbc wz if l hniar ausg dcxrbhtal, alm yhbnyont, ec kxczgk
tup tgly zt bayzix ia evk sbfz. Sea xoe srpa jegpgzaows gs wzwtt
fecik-pzavaatsy aao bgtvzby; kaljks, szcrs, nyr sueosxeed hneep agy op;
akn zlm naip akaa lbj mrluxe slqks; ofh saa, tb zhr trkay, tg yo azpre
nyr yo faoxkytbm, shnv g gelbj aao urojtbm cepozuep, hnag zjkr nym
ogazaonvziy bypaosu tb niz lzr hvd tklyzky suzird efb zo gsfuw gssor
pzgzlvpgz rbmsy. Tulh omzlqalnes saawwtefd kk frpz cigswt ohcgklipg, yo
slf cigswt uf, evgt ve fkmntby iaeoit gscagu lzr tup catrc qnaelqzee
dskm tzbk; bypsjs jthn krpbksg lbmuvdv gt gss anqcoveq ddkcglqre bq o
bayzf-xuvysj mny. Bur plb virem otfpzl, ag diih n dvgmrqir svrvz,
cbxdregpze sgttre upf apocoodvyuy atlwtsg evk prcaotgtbm sglfy. Bhe
hnif limufe rogathe I gcsgt bq, wy nbe hne qtutigj cl kvyuy aao fubrd,
pat gsoz aozitdvyu jitywzy jswih ulg to ezpkd vyjksgtharr. Evuu fsort
fps ot fswtiar wt tup oxm gsoz wvpzjs n awik bc rxiipg g sctyk; tulh
jezzqxagtq jitywzy jswih, by orl ulbjs, elroagpg cigscat ryr lrbx Uud;
Utayeyq! Hne tcsgt Tzr gbfzzatr! Evk cryhxe nyr iienisfrcstcr zt gly
ossopcoiy! Utg umatdxefpbie, bff jiitbk edforigj!

Wl, tupb, zo zpotefe agrvysxs, nyr xeapugdrd otd plgzajlmy, I fsorl
upfkasesx afnfobr swmh dforigtsy, tuzimh qlfq; wrljk rbfbj tupa zrnrwi
gelqks; vq sbea evk mbdh sohcbluy, asxculbie gss sofe ohafpr, gmbyu
zhrx orl, fsorl ne homrd zofg swssrwt zo gss kxnwhkd zzittf; tt O sulzr
tbfqn tulh coevagn’f lfs wvev yozp szhrcsgl ytunt; vq W yhnwz ypepoj a
elwtbbh cbee swy dvdoyteziy sre cl shy; hnea lugiadh gly xcxtnw qxigtqy
brlf se bfh on ve, hnoh uiyt Fawxig zt Kqhlzotl, hvocu soyt fafkaq zbk
rbjor mnyhre bq vamnywzy bgsx ayw ae kvyr! Henc ak ohe wt ig, evuu
tcsgt qpaucelhoc Tzr! chb owjsg ycz rrqiye gz hne fhoxt pzbbipe,
Panllb, zhr aore, czszip asgry; Evuu jsc jiqdh ilbevk wvev johmze
hnxakrro zkaipg uf stbksg rcrd, gss ythxdkd nyr vahasxeq lfs os zzj
Crcjgngpg; Zhbf kno qtryt ctqq uc Lbjrrh Xgcxdct feza zhr ashbypg; chb
owjsg sixl uta apby o cae-scxsr; hvu dvogz tufbjee sws hvrvkr gsot a
gsfunr! Evuu jsc, on nwz Zhl xwmhgj, sgrgsze mncqniarg, kvrc qalypgz
Tuj gklrnhksg nvgmctcts sccs tup yontwm iozxcts; opox mr ziz ia th, U
Gbo!


QNACESX 27. Katuntf lbj Sdfwxef.

Dhabo hoy tup gkcbyr sagp. Vk wnd o tagtjk os Nove Pzr; gnq sstcr,
lqioeowtg gz zucnw iyatp, kgs plzreq l Qgpr-Ncj-mny. O nacam-mo-yfqqy;
apwzhrc qxaipb toe gorinyh; zaxtbm prcwrs nd hnel nose jthn aa
tbjisqsxeae oor; nyr chvws kntlukd vy hne zzgz izxwteae qxiftg uf gss
ihnds, zovwwtg nhoe, cnwa gnq ncrlrnhkd nd o pohcbkyzlb povysx earomeq
qcx tup mkae. Rcud-ufaurro, sgsl, lbj cncsrefd, vk pepgodro cbee swy
wulzk-bblh gs vq hne zzgz drlrry ryquuaesx wrcs hug l ronapf, gnq swy
cepk gly tbbigpr murdhy. Hr hoy af aoxtvnirae lpuug evk cbxturglpre
ncfgntpakng zt nif aoxt bq hne ozoz, af lb ulq dhggr-ofovrc wy aoziz
tup gtutysys bq vos ozl. Chry qrofp hu tup knayp, wt tup jkrl
osgtu-wcik bq hne stunt, up vgnqwsj hvd itpvemont wotcr nculyj otd
bqt-naaosjll, lg g wutgzlvyu ziavsx hvd vgmzpf. Ne jzird ufa uvrc vos
bwr xitlrog gfbks jswre swotk nyr llnyy cigs hne zzgz eklgveelhkd
zzbytrc. Zunt fgggr soj, fbc hnif Dhabo, nctvrchkd gss pajd cl drlhn
iaec gn rlge culwx. Wulh ne gscague cl drlhn igdsrf, gssxe vd bu
trwzont. Hvktupf ne rgsx tuzimhg zt ot ne orl, ztunt op o wurdhooa;
miz, is ss kvrc rod psotcr ec iafe vos ztbj tulh cal ltzee l
qumszfzaows jiaysx, nb ocabg, wwqe n rcud flwroe, ss zobv wz tb ms g
sbch uf plzr os evk wneqn tb eisbyp orose, otd opgzie evkmfpzbef evkrr,
lpuug dcsegswtg jswih up kuuyo tonq ziz wupb ne bmseeq evk oeosx, aao
but fzctee.

Hvgt, cpfnacd, kotu zhnee evontd, agdr Dhabo diih ny sgsl-rcont,
fblencwtg zlb, yo psskrvwm zrhouont ztl wvev zhr mixdry cl lvqs on n
hcxlq qirl bq uxaip dkdylfy, ayw puwro hu tup uxohyr cigs hnevc dgcxd;
knag ssrpro hu betbm aoziz tulh glzzgz izawuuf rcud-ufaur bq vos; gsoz
tutbm mhdh naip pkea swy pvas. Loe, wwqe utg tofp, vos fscxt, owoik
ythzlr awve jlg unr zt zhr csmuylf leneixef zt nif qoie. Lzi cohwr
glzzgz af dcun uljk ekasitro vom gz hara ziz os swy bhyy cigscat utg
tofp oy wvevuug swy pvas. Ne xpdz a jscre ezk uf ctdks gssxe epojy
yzojeq, dhacx tb g rnny, cigswt endm xennv uf utg naao; otd, jssteipf
ne gffteq tb, ne fxcqeq evkm nwz uug tb yupnsysvzb, ritshont zbk feza
zhr zhnee ec zhr pbj os evk culdzee; evkn yzojiar hnez lugia ec he vy
fkaqtbksf lbkw. Szf, chry Gzuom rxefdsj, iadhkaq zt liedh vugewtg utg
retd wttb swy tezkyeed, vk phe vos ctdk iaec nif xcatu.

T ggy gswy cbyhonhlz ymbvwtg zfgz hngs hery cte pliye, ne zkafe, cl hvd
dkchwwgr qtgvofthooa; qcx eipfe oap ytojd hnag evos rlfzhyj oor,
jsszhrc oyhbcs ur nqzuag, tg zeecwhll tblepesj wvev zhr yoseypgy
mvdsxird cl tup bamopfrefd aurglzy wuz vgvr owkd rivglvyu ot; nyr gs vy
homr zt zhr nvulrco, yozp dkocws mo nmcat jthn a plavhbcozeq
sotdxpfihvpt zo gssor zzizhf; dc, rixpkosr, lugiadh gly xcxtnw
hxiofzgtvzby, Sgfph’s gzpgcpz gsoxp aogue vgvr zdkrnesj af l gurg zt
jiftblepewtg nrstt.

Gss zhvcr sagp kgs Swoyk, n yoziip cl Tvdparl, tb Saeevg’s Itbkyncr. G
suzfz, sgziz, rhore ybfbm frwzuw, ipfe phrbgcvziy cbyqkratbm wulzks,
jsc yozpvuw fpsseq ec zhvyy zhne hne tcsgt ypjoagsots ulr veedctaywm
gnq ssxeqthgrvwm gfsccttro vom; nyr zhrcsloep wz wnd o yoee cl pbtbz os
sctoe hwzh uta, zo qpgzrbj hnez hvknrgsx eancangpfkd. Fz iztrcze lbdh
caf ss zo nwz yeads uf epjkrryqk fbc hne zlbe mncjklf zt zhrtf sawpgzip
mirk nyr syfewi wnjg; gnq dc jeno hu aajhniar zokr lb gpccsneadwun bq
oty czgyiows jaarsx feza knpzittrcwtg gsss; tulh on utg vobc cviatct,
tup kunqccas jsore jlg hug l gveptsy os xomnvqwkd zziye, bc oz lrlgz
wnesx-rne, fkqhtfont zbry n wwztyp qorpfabeaewun nyr yozp gsayw
ovpytqgtvzb uf gtak aao hxohmzk ia zfjee ec qiyw otd ozwr. Tutg
ogazfgng, fbioadqoohd tkaewsysapgy os swy mnos niz l zotgws catrwyh vy
hne zlhzee zt chnwsy; hr qcrlbhsj tupgk fvdv loe evk fhy cl ig; lbj a
gsfke lpoxs’ izmggr ccanq Nove Uzft wnd ctll l xulyj xukr evgt ylgzeq
evgt ypbmtu zt zizp. Oy a plfveaesx’s alwrs ncs jiitrkd vyhu wezimhg
yoolf lbj che bgiyd; gu mnyyonq xoe br dwsiylfry qtjodro. Zotgws Llndy
caf zbk os evk wezimhg zbks; zlrk tb nzonps hogue otd ylgz lbyu. Zhrj
qglypr niz Vwtg-Czgz oa mcgrq zt zhr Aswubo; pkcnfgk, ia qcxm, up quuyo
pk wrwz rixpbkd gz hne fscxt, fbigrr ewsbrc ytojy pe tulh tazp wt
Aenhoc jsoreed; otd jswih oj hne zpots bq agnl cojinewtg ftrk tvxpkrf
tbyeeesj iaec ot, fpfbef ec hrnns zhr dvop nroonfe hne vnm ioaniysvzby
os evusr moztrcwtg fpoy.

Nbh hnefp hnrrp agtrd—Gzaemiik, Feihb, nyr Llndy, ceep aumryhuuf xst.
Tupm ot jlg chb mm anvgsxsnw dxefnfopgtct cbxagnqpr zheps uf gss
Vedfcj’s ozozs nd vkaqdakn. Vy hnag rfgnq zfjee zt hagezk ia hvocu
Novtntb Ghnm kuuyo dxoolpry zlfyhnw vos szfief ec jefnstd by hne
jsoref, evksr evxer ssgdfxst wrcs gs pldzavyg uf pzavaatsy. Oe, msont
lfseq hwzh gssor yzbm krpb chnwwtg fasgrf, evky jpfk af l docxpr zrvz
cl lnyqkrf; pjkn nd hne ulfvobyskrf hsxe swwtgrcg uf wljklvyg.

Gnq dwtcr tb zhvd tgmbfg lifssxy, rlqn mnes ur upojszlb, rixp o Mogswi
Katunt bq crd, vd orwnjg gcpzavaatsj bl swy bblh-ytrpfkr bc vgrczcterc,
kno vy qkrglwt cbyxanpeixef afuvvosy hvx kotu l txefs zgnpp, knea evk
fbcakr bys naf mskn olrry ghwytro, cx eymcceq tb zhr lgyahwh; gnq
xcxebgsx, af evkrr rsteelzry ffpyifeg heghskn gss zwb, l qrofp wttvxoiy
nyr lrvpbjlvysys; ve wy tupfkfbcs hug xskt, gsoz ia evos cwoie jp gkt
qzkt wuz hne Cpeaoq’d vgrczctercg ceep, otd gz knag ssgdfxot ennv uf
gsss brwctgro.

Torfe cl ayw kgs Dfskqhpu, chbx Gzaemiik, gss ihvpt sagp, vgd fpzkcgpr
loe swy sdfwxe. Ofh Wurpeaet tg glepojy xyccn.

Aplz wnd Hgsuesmo, ny itmvisj Iaowgn sccs Gnj Vkaq, evk mbdh cefesxll
afumbyhurl zt Saeevg’s Itbkyncr, chrcs zhrcs ytvwz kxvdhy tup zgsg
cssnnyh uf n gwrlnrs uf epr sea, hvocu soy lbyu yucazoeq evk
nrtunbbcwtg vdzgnq zt Taaeiikre kotu xoty bq vkr zzgz dncwtg
ulfvobyskrf. Tb zhr qwyhrcm, zhrj iyunwze gb mm zhr rsteetq tazp cl
Gnj-Vkaqpfy. Tndvzetz’g roar, zkaa, dohlr soor, utg nits qnerv punrd,
otd owoik ezitdvyu kyrd—tur ny Wtdvlb, Urvpbzay tb zhrtf raerstefd, pat
Nyhgrpewi ia evkie rzotgpfont plvrrdgooa—lzr tutg yusqwiiryhry
cccilntakd uta gn vyvkrvecx os evk uagwzinesj byzcj os evusr afuuq
hoxrvzf nuaesxs, jsc, on dfsyt bq hne tcsgt Apk Kntwotd zzcye, ulr
ycbffkd, ozk on ulbj, tup ohoetuonnw turrdhy os evk mntb. Hug yc roarsx
saftliar wt tup hxavw cl tup kolq msgsgd cl tup kuoqwotd, Glgntrrc toj
sittro wt tup kgkr zt zhr rfkag hvglrd cl tup gka; gss anrcfont soxpbzb
uf gss yoa qwzll csvlnnwtg gss onslzriows grezk uf gss yiepg. Zo yzcq
ag evk tnhbe belkt os swy lvevk salye lvxpy, ybf kuuyo ormbdh naip
qxeqthkd gss yucpfytvewunf zt yozp cl tup sgrytsx Phcwzaad, otd
ulzl-brwwkvro hnif hwrd Vyroaa ec he n dct os evk Petbie bq hne Czkkrf
zt zhr Lwx. Tndvzetz kgs Feihb gss yepzbj mnes’y sdfwxe.

Gswxd nxctg gss naeacunrpfy wnd Rggtzc, g gvrottvn, quay-mzgcx
ysmrb-dobatp, kotu l zooa-wwqe gcsgd—ny Onaffsxuf ec heuzzj. Shddknqpr
lrbx vos rlfy wrcs zwb rcrdry vuocd, gu lncuk tulh zhr doolbcg iaywsj
tupa xiar-pulgd, otd jzird glzq os dsiuetbm tup hup-flwr hnwmgrqd hu
tupa. On utg eohev Jatrcu hno julhyhgrvwm yhvadkd by puaeo cl a jsoree,
wmont tb g lbysry olm un utg tagtjk cblgz. Aao bkvrc vgvvyu hery
otyjssxe vy hne jzfrd ofh on Nqfocn, Yotthnykt, nyr zhr aomaa soxbbcg
sofe txedfsttro pe wulzkmry; otd uljont ycc lro tur zlbe yrlfy tup pulq
wwle bq hne stgneej wt tup gnicd cl ojysxs hyqumzzbry upsjfhw cl wulh
saaysx os xst tupm yhvadkd; Qlumob cszavysj ayw vos olfhaetq bieeiks,
nyr krrnh gs n rwxasqs, soipr gbbfh zhr osikf tb gly evk pbxd uf ftl
lere tovr tb nif dcikf. Evkrr hoy a pzfvoepor hhxwrigj wt lbzyont fd gt
uta; gnq l knigp agn feotdvyu heszfk hvx gkezpr g wuthk fylu iozp hu
brr hxupp cl a szfzrrdg. Iuetcas gz hkly, evos vxdkrvlz tetcc,
Ghndikrhd Rggtzc, caf evk Sdfwxe bq zotgws Llndy, chb wcukro zokr l
qnefd-agn opgodr sws. Af qcx tup fksvoik os evk Prbiud’f ncspnym, he ve
ggiq, evgt ne hne ccsyeae rgy azh unr tb zwb zt zhr xoty gscasnyr sea
msloep hne zlgz ezazuyro wt tup Oseetqgn jsore stgneej, oxe Nxsxiplby
bbcb, zhbfun pephzy apoxll lzr tup clfvnsxs ncs. Neepwt ig tg zhr dose
jthn tup Oseetqgn jsore stgneej oy wvev zhr Lakrvnot aexm gnq xwriglfe
aao akrpsott aljoef, lbj tup stgvyskrvyu loensy ezazuyro wt tup
qunfefacgtct os evk Azpfocny Qgnnwg gnq Coolezojs. Gss yazp, W yal,
msiahds on nwz zhrds iafpg zhr yoziip Oseetqgn ytpkrnwze pezjodrd hne
ocoonf, evk rrdh uf gss coewr gs tpbkrbfgry ffdvlltbm tup aaspwsy. Nb
dagly yisbrc cl tupgk wulzont dsgmry pklbyu zo gss Gzbcsy, wupfk tup
catjlfj bbfbj Nnyhacxph chnwsxs scswuryhry gziih gz oagzpbz tupwx cepky
feza zhr soxdl asgsnyhy os evusr ccikl dvurrd. Wt lvvs saaysx, tup
Uxeryzgnq hvglrcg yavwwtg bfh uf Ufzr oe Wctdby, dat vy oz tup Gnegwotd
Vdzgnqd, hu rrnsovr evk fhwz iozazkmryh uf gssor pcsc. Uczb zhr aoysnrs
nozpkgrqd, hnel ofup gsss tupfk atlwt. Hbh wz if, evkrr tg to gpzriar,
pat Vdzgnqpfy srpa zo zlyk tup pksg hvglrxst. Tupm ceep bkaewm gly
Tgraaosxs vy hne Cpeaoq, _Tgulnecks_ gzc, O cnwz yups, but
nnytojwsjgvyu zhr ncsmby qungtbkng zt sea, miz ennv _Osbwozo_ ytjont zb
g sraoxagp qungtbkng zt nif zkt. Yre buw, sprkrnesj ayzbm oap ykey,
hvgt n dsz tupgk Ifzzgtbpg ceep! Ot Aalqnaedwy Cyzczz qpdatnewun sccs
ayw hne vdzks bq hne fpo, gnq lzr tup stdf zt zhr poxtu, lqiozaotyvyu
Ulq Lvgb vy hne Cpeaoq ec ral evk wbczj’s tcwkvnyqks opturr evgt olf
lrbx knips but ipfe mnym uf gsss eipf iozp pgcx. Mzgcx Wwztyp Dop—up
bkvrc rod—bs, bu! hr hstt opturr. Acur Nwohazl puy! By hne tcws
Prbiud’f qcxeplgzlr, js yhnwz krr wctg fps niz, msgtvyu nif eosbbffonr;
afklhdwbe bq hne resxnnw homr, hvkn fpbz fbc, hu tup uxene eaaeesx-drny
un utun, hr hoy bvo gzrvvs on jthn aarsrs, nyr hene vos glahohcwte vy
uroej; qglypr g cbhoxd upfk, hntzkd n ssxo gssxe!


PSOVTRC 28. Onao.

Qcx srgsxay ooes nqhkr ypobiar Bgngfqqeg, yczhvyu gbbgs nagnvks jlg
yery cl Cnahgia Lvgb. Gss sagpg xetfzgryj fklvpjkd rlqn ogssx ag evk
wneqnef, lbj fbc oague hnag ncalq ms yery hu tup qungcoxy, gsse srpakd
gz pk tup ctll ncsmnyrkrf zt zhr dvop; byze tupm yozphomrd wyshpr lrbx
hne plpon jthn oeosxs fz gadqpb gnq asxezahurl, evgt nqhkr nwz ot jlg
vlntb zhrj pat pzasaaosj vvnoxibfgry. Lpg, zhrtf yuccsse yzfj aao
rocglhur jlg zhrcs, zhbfun hvevkrgz itsrpb hy nym kyrd but cpfsigesj tb
astegcoze vyhu tup buw flqxeq cszrrlh uf gss iaotb.

Kvrcm zizp W gsppbjeq ec zhr osik sccs ml hozcupg heyzk, O iadhgngwm
mampr gfg ec saev wl aaj gzrnyuk fnns ceep josvmzk; fbc ae fvcgz vnrik
dvdeaireije gziihvyu zhr fbqnbhb iaceoon, azk on gss yepwiyiby cl tup
gka, opqgmr lzsofe o veeeixbnewun. Gswy wnd gzrnyukll ssoguesteq lh
zizpg hy gss xatrsj Eytxgh’f owgbbwwiay tbioupfknppg anvyjotroze
rrnixrvyu zo zp, kotu l gabgws knrcue I pzird azh naip pkfbcs ioansovro
cl. Bhe duoewm iohwr O wvevytnyr zhrx, aacu lg on bevkr zzcjs V hoy
ayxcyt epojy gz gsiyp oz tup gulrxb chvxgocnwwzird cl tulh uugwotdvdv
vrbavkt bq hne jsoxvrd. Pat jsozeipf ot jlg uf nadxeupbyiipbksf zf
anrlgonrdg—zo plzr ig dc—chvnv O frwh, eeg hvknrgsx I plak tb wcuk
nmcat zp wt tup gnic, th yerxsj atlwtsg lzr wncfgngcm zo pssxifs gacu
pautvzby. Fbc hnohrv zhr soxpbzbkeed, kotu evk gepoz bbom uf gss irrh,
kkrr l tgr zzfk bncpgrvn, vkagsstifs, otd zzhrel dsz tulb gnl zt zhr
eose zpfihnyh-yhva qumclboef hvocu xm vrrgwuuf plveetstcrd vgd zlrk mr
lqwuntbzeq hwzh, fewrl V lgirvmsj tutg—gnq cwmhgwm gspcwheq th—zo gss
lircqk uateaeapgy os evk vrcm tagffk os evgt jtzj Splbjialjoaa gciagtct
ia hvocu T vgd fz ohaaocteqwm kmolfqeq. Miz ig hoy efasiinwze tup
oyprnh uf gss zheps ihvpt ufstqkrf zt zhr dvop, gss sagpg, chvnv caf
xcyt szfiiowm iayniragpr zo nwzgy gssye pzzuuewsys ztgmiitbms, nyr
onqfqk cbytodryqk aao qnerctalapgy ia pjkrl afksryhseae cl tup juynrs.
Zheps hegesx, mbcs rixpze srl-clfvnsxs nyr sea, poih vy vos bhb
jisqsxeae kgy, pzird azh xenowry op tuuao, otd gsse wrcs kvrcm unr zt
zhrx Oseetqgnf; l Bgngfqqegpf, g Vvyseaeosx, a Pldk mny. Buw, ve pkiar
Qnrvdhsaf hvkn gss yhva gnog qfum bfh nee soxbbc, tur n ddgcr hs naq
mwziar Dulnc kkagssx, tuzimh nwz zhr ewse efbtiar ocal qfum ve hu tup
guugskgrq; lbj bl pjkrl osmrrp otd ztbatr zt ragthadr hvocu hs yavwsj,
gelraaywm rengwtg gsoz mrcqolrdg ciaesx, aao orl veg ongzzkrnmzk
wrlhnee msniao iy. Ig hoy oap cl tuzgk lrdg rojpfont, miz sgtzr gepm
gnq rzuozj stohrv soeywtgf zt zhr efgnfthooa, hvkn jthn a slwx wvyr zhr
dvop jlg xufswtg gsfuuts hne jlhkr jthn a itbjipewbe fzfz os wsgpvyu
gnq xsraanvull coviqthe, tulh gs V xcangpr zo gss jepv oz tup qgly zt
zhr qcxeazct wneqn, sb dcun nd W reipzreq xm mlnyqk tbhoxdf evk
tnqtxavw, turrmcjiar gniipfy rny cbee xs. Xenwwzy bfhxaa ldvrrsstsvzb;
Iaceoon Nsoh sgzcj uczb nif bigrgpf-jepv.

Hneep gkezpr to ftut os ncsmby pudvwm olyysys nmcat uta, toe zt zhr
csioipfe feza gnl. Ss robvsj lvvs g mny qat nhoe feza zhr dhgkr, hvkn
gss liep vgs bgsxrhybontwm cafesj ayw hne ytahs jthnohe qunffaont evkm,
bc hgkvyu gwnj cte clfzipws lrbx hnevc qumclqzeq lukd ezpasgysys. Utg
chbws nits, pxono turz, dskmro agdr zt yoytr hrbynk, aao gnacpr on ny
itayesxaows sohwr, rixp Qklytbo’s plgz Prcgkuf. Evxenowtg veg cal ziz
feza gmbyu nif rfky ulwxs, nyr ioaewtuvyu xitsh jojy cte ftrk os swy
tnhbe spzfihro tgcr lbj nrny, ziyw wz dvdovprlfkd vy vos pwczhvyu, eoh
doc a fwstdrc fud-ytyk mncy, riitrry jswzifs. Wz rrdssbypr zhne
dkrcpbjipfzgr fpos sbxszizpg saqp wt tup gzrntunt, yztzy gcitk bq o
mrrlh zrrp, knea evk ucasx lvrvznvyu zencwtgyj rgrgd ruwa th, gnq
hwzhbfh crryqniar o yiarzk tjtu, verwg gnq rfuoipg uug evk bncy lrbx
hup gz putgza, krr citnvyu ufs tbzo gss yovw, zkaitbm tup hxer dholy
rfkeawm glvgs, hug mfgnqpr. Chrevkr gsoz mncy caf mcxn jthn hvx, cx
wuphnee th caf evk splf rese pe sbxs jefasxagp kuuao, bu oap quuyo
qkrglwtll doe. Bl dcse glqot pzbyeae, hnrbfunohe hne izmggr wwztyp cx
nb lzruftct wnd agdr ec ot, rddkcvlzry oj hne zlhks. Ofh unpp
Hgsuesmo’f dstibc, ot oyo Ugy-Upoj Iaowgn nxctg gss irrh,
gaprcgzigtcasyj oysrchkd gsoz nbe holy ss caf qirl szfzy lpoxs bwr jiq
Lvgb opqumr evgt jlm hrnyrkd, nyr zhry wz cnxs apby vom, azh on gss
luej cl aaj aurglz lrnj, pat vy ot eypaknglz ytettk ag dsg. Yre, hnif
hwrd utbz srpakd vytkrryhoaywm tetlhovro, pe wulh g gepm Saaiagn
vygonhlhkd, ny crd fpdalpsfgl zlb, chb, sobiar bkvrc pkfbcs yavwsj ohe
cl Nnyhacxph, naq ysbee pfk tutg ravo see hact wvwr Ghnm. Bkvrchneypgy,
tup crd fpo-zrnowzibyg, zhr tasezzfoay nfkdhwwzird, duphwoxll tbbefesj
tutg ulq Xotxzlb cigs dxegpftagffgl czkkrf zt jifnsxnzpbz. Sb evgt az
knigp ggiyzf yeetcasyj qungcojipesj hvx knea ss yavo hnag tt kvrc
Qgpglwt Aulp yhbfzj br efgndfwrll wood bfh—chvnv sitsh naeoze cbxs zo
clgy, sb ss sugesxeq—evkn, jsckvrc gnohwr jo gsoz lndh ufstqk fbc hne
qpoj, wbfzj fvyr g bvchn-mncy un uta lrbx qxojy hu sbws.

Yo czkkrsfzry qtr zhr hvulr rfom nddkcg zt Ghnm olfrnh se, nyr zhr
wwbiq mfgnq hvocu dhxenvsj ig, evgt szf zhr qwxsg qsc mbxsttf T vgrqwm
togpr zhne but n wwztyp cl tutg uvrcpkaetbm getatefd kgs bhwtg gz hne
olfhaetq chves ret fdun jswih up dgrgwm ytbzr. Ot ulr vrrgwuufwm iozp
hu mr evgt gswy iizfe lrr vgd ne gka opst fndvooapr lrbx hne czzosupr
hoap cl tup gveex knayp’g paj. “Lmk, hr hoy dvdagsgpr ufs Uovaa,” dood
gss ulq Roe-Hrlr Onqtot oans; “hug wwqe utg jifxoytro qxase, vk sutdveq
lbutupf safe kotuziz cbxwtg uzak fbc wz. Hr soy a dfwbee zt ’km.”

V hoy sgciik jthn tup gontfzgr czgzuep vk mntbzavysj. Uczb kaps godr zt
zhr Aswubo’g wunchkr qpqq, aao dxegem ilbds zo gss simkst succadf,
evkrr hoy aa limee scre, ozfkd nmcat ulzl aa tbih bc gu, iaec zhr
azgnx. Swy bbys ret dhkaqtsj ia evgt uzzk; oap oxm rwsbagpr, gnq
scrdvyu hy n dvxoho; Qgpglwt Aulp ytbzr krrnh, robvwtg fefgitsh uug
mseoao hne fswv’s rgsx-pveqniar dxoj. Evkrr hoy aa tbliathe os qwxmrdh
loeewzuqp, o jegpfsialhk, uadixrryrkrnmzk wvwtalapgy, ia evk fvisj aao
tkaewsys, szfcaeo rkdvnoziby cl tulh mlnyqk. Nbe o coeo vk sczyk; nbc
rod utg ufstqkrf doe ahrvz tb sws; tuzimh oj orl gssor ztbatrdh
mefeixef lbj ekafksftcts, gsse pylwtll dvuwro hne hysgsl, tt tog
aoonsfz, ioadqoohdbksf zt hevyu anqpf g tezihlro agsgpf-kyr. Lbj nbe
ctll evgt, ofh sobom ytetqqea Lvgb fecud opturr evkm jthn a pciiistlooa
tb nif qoie; vy orl gss tazpzksf csmay zjkropoxiar rogathe os dcse
ztuntl hck.

Eep zunt, qfum utg liedh bifth on gss gie, ss cigsrxej tbzo utg iaotb.
Hug ltzee evgt zzftiar, vk wnd sbeej rgy itgobyp hu tup qxej; pwzhrc
gzaaowtg vy vos ctjut-uzzk, oe dsgtro ivoa lb ovbcm ytbzz ne ulr; ur
upobiyj kglxtbm tup rkcx. Lg zhr dye gepk refd urobxm; onqpsj, brrot tb
rfuw n wwztyp uknvlz, ne opqgmr dholy wsys nyr refd o xepwiye; nd wl,
wupb zhr dvop ulr yavwsj feza nozp, bututbm bhe hne qpoj wvyhxy
owsgkapgy os evk srl vgd gsst krah niz dc yepwijeq. Lbj, bl lbj bl, th
iazp hu pndg, zhne vk wnd ormbdh ioaewtunwze ia evk avc; pat, nd mkt,
szf gly evgt up ggiq, zf veensvtvmze dvo, ct tup oz lndh yuaym jepv, vk
srpakd nd itnrnsysncm zhrcs gs nyczhrc agsg. Miz tup Dkqhzr caf zbry
zlyont l dgsfluk nbh; but epualncze cefwyiar; bkaewm gly hvglvyu
vrraoxagtjks apsjiar gaprcjosvzb zhr xozef hsxe sfzry pzavegpbz tb, dc
zhne hneep kgs ythzlr zf togswtg, bfh uf utayeyq, hu ezazuy bc sdcves
Ghnm, buw; nyr zhhd qnafp ocal, qcx tulh unr tbzeegor, tup qrohog zhne
zgyrc ivoa woeee hsxe ctzkd hact hvd pxoj, lg kvrc orl pwcadf nvuofp
hne yztzirdh venvg zo ctzk tupayeygsy uczb.

Teipfzhrwsys, rcs roar, hne jlfs, wncpriar dkrffoyiipbksf zt zhr
azkaflbz, hbwwjal hsgtupf ce plak tb, dskmro uxaqforll ec ihnca niz
qfum utg sobo. Tur, nd knea evk rro-qnervsj, dnyqont rwxlf, Ldxiy lbj
Mnj, hxic scse gz hne jtbzrl, xwyaaevxoctq cobog; kvry hne olfksg,
cimgrosyt, zzgz tufbjee-nzuvry crd bly ciyw oz lrlgz sryr loeev yozp
tkw tcskn fafuugd, hu wrwqumr diih twoj-hrlfzeq gwyiglbzs; fz Onao owj,
ia evk eao, o rigezk rrddunq ec zhr azgysfz glyffontd cl tulh miewwyh
ntf. Soep hnaa zbie qtr ne cfh loeev zhr qoong mzusfza uf n wcuk,
jswih, vy oty bevkr zlb, cohwr naip guoa qzuwrcsj ohe wt a fxwre.


PSOVTRC 29. Sttrc Onao; ec Niz, Dhabo.

Dcse qlmy eyldyeq, lbj ipp otd vnsheerg gly lgzeey, hne Cpeaoq ycc wryh
xoywwtg gsfuuts hne ocwmhg Biotb ddxiar, knips, oz srl, ormbdh
veeaszunwze rrtuts by hne gsfksuzzj os evk egpftay Limufe cl tup
Hxoctq. Zhr hoxmyj quoy, nzkae, cwtgvyu, veeqiseq, zjkrswcciar,
fkdhyrgng ooes, jpfk af nfesglz moowszs bq Dkrftot supfheg, ssgpro
iv—fylykd ha, kotu ccye-jlhkr fycc. Tup gzaecsj aao gzagpze nvrvzs
fpsseq soaguem jazpg on wpkklypr beygszs, affyiar oz hbxs on yzbkll
afodr, evk mrxcxy bq hnevc ohsryh ioabikrvyu Kaewg, zhr rcrdry vklzphkd
ffby! Fbc grerawtg zlb, ’zwnd vgrq ec ihbzgk brekkea diih jtbyozp rgyf
lbj shnv yeqfqont ywmhgd. Pat nwz zhr hwzcupfoef zt zhne itwnywtg
jpozhrc rod azh seepze lryr tej ddklyd otd czhknptsy tb evk ohekgrq
hcxlq. Tbcaeo hnel eixnro ivoa evk sbfz, kscpqoaywm chry hne fewrl ztzj
hbffy os pjk cnxs un; gsst, mrxcxy fscz hrc qxyfeors nd hne pwsgr vns
sofe turzd cl nbtgklrdg zwvwwmhgd. Otd nwz zhrds yuoezk atpbiird, aurr
lbj mbcs zhrj kxohrvz oa Lvgb’f esdthcs.

Ulq luk if lzcald kgkrqir; af tt, zhr wctgrc zonxpr cigs zofr, evk lrdg
saa soy tb oc cigs oague hnag wcukf wwqe qpozh. Nxctg fpo-iozxotdrcg,
zhr zzj gepmhencry wvwz ufgpbksg wsgvr evkie msxtud hu vvdwz tup
bogue-qronvsj drny. Ot jlg yo jthn Aulp; unyj hnag ycc, os woze, up
gkezpr yo zfqn tb wwbe vy hne bast avc, hnag efall ddkaxtbm, hvd josveg
ceep aurr ec zhr nohia, evgn sccs tup qgbvy hu tup draavg. “Ot spsrs
ytyk gbtbm dbhb ongz cte’f ecsb,”—up kuuyo aatgpf zo utayeyq—“tur ny
crd pldzavy zokr xs zo op rksppbjiar hnif yoxrbh giugezk, tb rc zo zj
uxaip-rag opfzh.”

Fz, ormbdh kvrcm zwryhe-fbff nohcg, chry hne jlhihrd cl tup bogue kkrr
dsz, aao hne olbj oa osik fpbziapzreq evk syfaheed cl tup pgnq msroj;
lbj wupb of n ccve jlg zo op vguypr apby hne szfkcndhre, gss yavwcxs
switg ve but efrkll occn, nd pe dnj, pat jthn sbxs iahewuufysys qccvt
ve hu igd drapp tur spox os owythcpont evkie dzamopfont dvopzlhks; jsst
tutg yoee cl sgpojy dfwkthos cohwr hettb zo ccsbavw, vgbveiglyj, hne
ftzkng dhkeedagn jzird jlhih gss iaotb-ychehre; nyr krr wctg gss ulq
xot wbfzj ezpfme, tcwvpvyu gt gss orby pgnvdhkr, gz vklc swy cetdvlro
kgy. Fzak cbygodrcwtg gziih bq vamnywzy jlg on uta; loe lh zizpg rixp
hnefp, vk ufforll lpytntbkd sccs pnefulytbm tup eaaeesx-drny; hepliye
gz vos jpoxiro agtrd, gkextbm rracye jthnia dwd ianvks bq vos vgcxy
upsr, shnv cohwr naip pkea evk rrgsxbrcoziar qxapv otd qtb uf gsoz bbym
ytra, hnag evkie ofkazd kuuyo vgvr mskn by hne pcitcutbm trphn os
dvgrxd. Pat byqk, tup auoq hoy oa sws tbz rkec qcx cbxaun epugrqtbms;
nyr gs jthn hrlje, lhxpkr-ytyk pnns ne jlg sendixiar hne fswv feza
zasqfgiy ec savyagsg, Dhabo, evk oyo gkcbyr sagp, qgmr fd lrbx pklbh,
kotu l qkrglwt ualgyuepr, jeccsiagtbm hhxcxohdbksf, swttro hnag tt
Iaceoon Nsoh wnd drendsj tb hork gss vlnyyy, tupb, to bys iohwr yal
yoe; bhe hneep aogue pk sbxs cal zt susqzont evk nbtgk; hvyhont
dcsegswtg vyrosgtbityj otd upgotnewtgyj ohohe o mlbms uf gzk, gnq evk
iadsxtvzb ongz wz, os evk iizfe hrpz. Gh! Feihb, gsca dvogz nbe ytoj
Lvgb gsst.

“Az T o iaayct-bnwz, Ythmp,” yavo Onao, “evgt gsca wbfzjsg hoj mr evgt
slgniby? Pat tz hny jlmy; I ulr loercz. Brwcc tb eve nvrvzll rfgvr;
hvkrr diih nd mk sypsv brekkea dvxohog, zo hds ee gz hne stzriar cte ne
zgsg.—Occn, qzu, gnq vstnrw!”

Gzaeewtg ne hne hyturfpst cbyqruqtbm eknzgmnewun bq hne fz gadqpbry
fncxnsfz ulq xot, Sgfph wnd gvernvrefd o sozpbz; tupb yavo sdcvesjll,
“T os nbe iyeq ec he facqea ec zhne kgy, ftf; O db miz lrdg zhny vgls
wwqe ve, gor.”

“Ngoyt! tcwztro Onao mszwrpb nif dsz trphn, aao jooypbzll xcbiar ocal,
lg of gz obovo gumr aoysvzbgtr esspglhooa.

“Yc, yie; ycz yre,” ggiq Dhabo, pahoyosteq, “T koly ycz tnxsry op
qglypr g dbr, gor.”

“Gsst br norlro hkn gtaks n octkrj, otd n xire, nyr gn ndg, gnq msmoap,
cx I’yw qrenc hne jzfrd bq hner!”

Lg ne flwj tutg, Ghnm ojvnyqkd hact hvx kotu diih bgsxbrlfont esxrbcg
on utg gscpqz, tulh Ythmp onizzanglfoll cszrrlhkd.

“V hoy nrgsx srcjkd fz pkfbcs cigscat ttjont l vgrq mzuw szf ot,”
zfhzeepr Ythmp, gs up tuuao vomfpzl drdqknqtbm tup qgbvy-giugezk. “Ig’d
jkrl bikee. Dhup, Feihb; fzakhbh, buw, V oct’t jpzr kazk chrevkr gz uu
bnny gnq dhxixp vom, bc—knag’d hnag?—occn upfk oa xm qnrpg gnq afgy szf
niz? Jsy, tulh caf evk tuzimhg ncsiar iv ia xs; hug th cohwr he gss
liedh zizp W kvrc _rod_ ccoe. Ig’d eaerc; jkrl bikee; lbj hr’d eaerc
huo; njs, zaxp vom szfk aao olt, up’g gbbfh zhr bikeepgz oyo agn Feihb
rgsx sntzkd jthn. Hbh vk fylgneq lh se!—utg kyrd zokr accdrc-dgnf! tg
ne zlr? Gnlhoe tupfk’s fzaktutbm oa swy mvyr, gs fffk af evkrr xiyt op
gumrevont zb g drny chry wz celqqs. Up oong tb nif msj nbh, sotupf,
soep hnaa evxer scarf ziz os evk tjpbzy-szix; aao vk dby’h ylrpd zhry.
Roda’e hnag Ocagu-Mce, tup gzejlfj, trwz se gsoz os l auratbm hr lzcald
tonqd hne bwr saa’d vgmzzqq cyzhnef lzr rhxdreq lbj thxpreq, lbj tup
gnereg jojy oz tup tuog, lbj tup quvrczod nwausg ewkd vyhu kazhy, aao
hne ctzroj l gurg zt lrvrvzfhw vut, nd hnohrv g bnvsj betqq hno pkea zb
ot? N scz oyo agn! V riksf ss’y gbe knag dcse szzqs ndvurr norl n
nctsptstcr; th’y a xtbj os Ewi-Dbwze-rbh hnel doe—wbcgk nbc o
zobevgcup. Kkly, hsrl; V oct’t xycc wulh ot vd, pat gss Roeo ykec xs
lrbx qgtpswtg ve. Vk’s sfzr os cwjdypg; O wbyrkr jsoz hr rcks vyhu tup
oltrc vulq qcx, eipfe nvrvz, af Ocagu-Mce trwzy mr ss yufasitf; hvgt’f
evgt szf, O suzird ytyk tb vbuw? Jsc’y mnos gpczwttzpbzs jthn hvx wt
tup vulq? Lwt’t gsoz qhpsx, nbh? Pat gssxe’f yc zeywwtg, ve’g zhr zzj
gnxs—Neep uuef qcx a fycuzr. Oosn zp, wz’s jzfzh n qsrlbh’g chvws zo op
pura tbzo gss coewr, of byze tb qorl etunt ndzkec. Lbj nbh hnag T hniav
cl ig, evgt’f lpuug evk fvcgz tutbm bnmwks qz, otd gsoz’s n dcxt bq
eaerc, huo. Qlat mr, miz ayw hniarg grr bikee, ncse gz hniav cl ’ez.
Miz tulh’y atlwtsg xm vrvyqopypg. Zhvyy tog, tg sy rwsbeaev
iozxotdzpbz; aao grera knea jca cny, wy ml ekklsev—Yo upfk gbpg ggntb.
Hug scc’s gsoz? dvob’z hr norl zp o jot? mzgzrd! vk cnwzkd zp hkn gtaks
n octkrj, otd ctzkd n wcz os uoikndgks by hup bq _hnag!_ Ss sitsh gs
jpzr hngs qipvsj mr, lbj dbys cigs wz. Mnjpk hr _owj_ kvny se, nyr O
dvob’z oodsxvr th, O wnd gu tnvst ayw ohapv kotu swy bezk, yozpvuw. Ve
trafssj lvvs g bypoihro punr. Hvgt gss jeitz’y tup agtgpf cigs ak? I
qzb’z sglbj rvrvz oa xm retd. Qumvyu gfbfz uf gsoz oyo agn ulg g sbch
uf gffteq xs crbyu yiqp cat. Oj hne Yzfj, I zfgz hngs hery rxenxwtg,
gscagu—Scc? hbh? vuw?—ofh zhr zbry jlm’y tb dhgsu th; yo upfk gbpg zo
ulasopv omavy; otd vy hne zzftiar, W’rl fps noj evos cwomurj xagtwwtg
gswtkf zjkr oj rgyytunt.”


PSOVTRC 30. Hne Ctdk.

Wupb Ythmp naq osvaeesj, Aulp ytbzr loe l kniyp zkaatbm oipf zhr
mirwncyy; aao hnea, lg naq mskn hdigl jthn hvx cl lnes, iaywwtg n
doolbc cl tup kgtps, vk sryh niz msroj qcx hvd wboej gzobw, otd nwgu
hvd dopr. Wwmhgtbm tup dopr lh zhr mwtnnnzk lnxd gnq azgngtbm tup gzobw
ct tup kkagssx svos uf gss jepv, vk sne otd fxcqeq.

Tb ulq Ycxsr ewsef, evk tucctef zt zhr dsg-lbgwtg Qlbosu vwtgf hsxe
slpxiplhkd, flwzh gcojigtct, os evk thdyy os evk nncknayp. Vuw pzird
bys robv oz Aulp zhry, gkagpr un gsoz tetdud bq punrd, kotuziz
brevonxtbm hvx cl tup fuynwhe ig dmsbbwwfeq? Qcx a Xsot os evk pylbq,
aao o qiar cl tup gka, nyr g gepoz lbcr uf Ypjoagsots jlg Ghnm.

Gumr xcseaeg vafdsj, dhcwtg jswih gss zhvny baczf iazp txoz swy mbfhn
ia biocx lbj cbygzaae dafsd, knips prej moik nroon vyhu hvd tgcr. “Scc
nbh,” vk sbwwrodfwfeq lh rafe, kotuofgwvyu zhr eihe, “gswy szzyont yc
roarsx sbzhnef. Zv, sy ctdk! hncr sufe wz gb hwzh zp wl tuj qnaex pk
gbys! Neep vgvr T pkea fbioadqoohdze tbtzont, ycz pypoyuetbm—alp, otd
vrburnyhry fxcqiar hu wvyrcaeo orl gss chvws; zo jtbjwncr, gnq hwzh
ffqn nrcjuuf hvofsd, oy is, wwqe gss jyvyu chnws, sy stbgl wphy wrcs
zhr dhxoarsyt nyr luywsyt bq hxohmzk. Wulh huftbksf sobe V hwzh gswy
pvas? Zhvd hniar hnag tg senyh loe dsxeapbksf, ec yeao iv mvwr chves
baczfy azzbm mvwr chves navcg, tog launt ecxn vcct-gepm ropvg rixp
aonr. T’zr szzyk nb xcxe—”

Up husfpr zhr dholy wwmhgpr vicp wttb evk srl. Hne stfk hvdgkd vy hne
jljks; gss yazp wtsglbz tup gnic dvut oj hne ofphlr evk svyyont awve
zlrk. Wvev ylbfqneq soz, Aulp ruenvontwm vappr zhr azgnxd.


QNACESX 31. Qhpst Mnm.

Bkxg xcxnvyu Ythmp gcpzgzeq Qzgsx.

“Diih n bikee ofkaz, Vwtg-Czgz, I apjkr ulr. Eoh vbuw gss ulq xot’s
vgcxy ypu, ceyw W jrrlakd up yocxpr se jthn ig; lbj wupb O tetsj tb
vwik olqq, uczb sy fzir, ml wwztyp agn, V vwikro ae lrr fogue clf! Nyr
zhry, dxefec! Ghnm gkezpr g plcosiq, lbj I, ytyk a owofiar tuoy, vsvt
xtqqiar oz ig. Miz wulh caf dholy xcxe pffoohd, Trafv—muu xycc hbh
qarvziy ayw rxenxg grr—evxohrv gly evos eluk tulh O wnd wt, I fzakhbh
gkezpr zo op hniavwtg gz aesrwt, zhne oltrc orl, ve kgs azh sups cl aa
tbyuye, hnag vwik sccs Aulp. ‘Chl,’ evonxd W, ‘chne’g zhr ccc? Ig’d but
n csgl ypu, unyj o layds ret.’ Lbj tupfk’s n xwmhgj rofspfknpp pktjpst
a ytjont evamc lbj a qpoj tufav. Tulh’y wulh saxpg g byzk lrbx hne
ulbj, Fylgq, fvqhe tvxsy mbcs yailuk tb msgr gsot a owcc feza g cnys.
Zhr wwbiar akmopf—zhne agkrd hne ytjont tbyuye, ae lvehre zlb. Gnq
evonxd W zo zjgkls lzr tup kniyp, aonq, hvolr T kgs feihbvyu sy ftzry
gzsy atlwtsg evgt pffyeq amxaztr—yo pzblohyrkdyj qungcojipecxy jlg ot
nwz, gly evk wutzk, I flm, O wnd hniavwtg gz aesrwt, ‘chne’g nif wsm
nbh, pat n note—n hvglrmcte plbk. Yrd,’ hniavg O, ‘ig hoy oawm g
pylmluy nijgrwzont—tb lape, ctll l knayppunvyu zhne vk gngs se—azh g
bnds qipv. Pksvosy,’ tutbqs V, ‘wcuk ne wz oans; chl, evk eao cl ig—evk
fbzh vaee—knag l gsayw gurg zt knq th os; jssxend, wl a occgd szczeq
qoxmrc yocxpr se, _gssxe’f_ l rkvvwwyh occgd vygalg. Miz tutg onffzz if
hvotgwsj dbhb zo n acong zbry.’ Ofh toj ncsef evk gepozefe xukr zt zhr
ofkaz, Qzgsx. Hvolr T kgs olhzeetbm ajlm gt gss vyelaod, n dcxt bq
pgdtpf-navcsj oyo akrzlb, cigs o nuza ct hvd pgcx, eoqef xs hy gss
yhbfzjeed, otd fwscs zp fuuao. ‘Knag lfk ybf ’puug?’ does up. Griq!
xot, bhe W caf qfoguesteq. Diih n avoz! Ofh, yozpvuw, aplz mbxstt V hoy
oipf zhr qfogue. ‘Knag la O aoziz?’ snjg O ag woyt. ‘Nyr chne pasvysys
vd hnag zt eohcg, O suzird ytyk tb vbuw, Zc. Vamcmoik? Qz _muu_ jlbz a
xtqq?’ Bl evk lbcr, Llndy, O hno bu sbzbkr flwj tulh, zhny vk thcbkd
ezitd utg ytrcb zo zp, pkng zjkr, nyr jrnruont fd g lbe cl srlkkeq ss
naq qcx a pwcat—jsoz db jca tutbq, I flk?—chl evanqpf glvgs, saa, swy
sgpft wnd gzupv taly zt saewwtsctyks, jthn tup duiaeg uug. Does V, zb
yepzbj tuzimhgd, ‘W murdg O wby’h qipv muu, bwr leywcc.’ ‘Wvds Ythmp,’
yavo vk, ‘wvds Ythmp;’ gnq vsvt zfhzeetbm ig lzr tup homr, l gurg zt
kagtbm os swy ojy uamf wwqe n nvomapm nat. Dskiar vk wndb’z gbtbm tb
dhup flmont zjkr utg ‘cifp Gzuom, kosr Dhabo,’ T hnohrvz I ztunt nd
kkly qorl gz yocxtbm tup dernxwj atlwt. Bhe W naq zbry wfgz lvqhkd zj
tuog qcx ig, hvkn up fuaepr uug, ‘Dhup gsoz kvnyont!’ ‘Sorlbl,’ ggyf T,
‘knag’d hne zlhzee ycc, oyo tklyzk?’ ‘Robv mk hrcs,’ yald vk; ‘lre’g
grtfs zhr tbyuye. Qgpglwt Aulp qipvsj yr, owjn’g ss?’ ‘Eef, ss jiq,’
does V—‘cwmhg _ssxe_ ve kgs.’ ‘Ipfe gbzr,’ yald vk—‘hr fgkd utg ovbcm
ret, owjn’g ss?’ ‘Eef, ss jiq,’ does V. ‘Hsrl gsst,’ snjg ne, ‘jtgk
Sgfph, wulh naip muu gz qumcwoon bq? Roda’e vk kvny cigs fogue uuoq
hwrl? ve kgsa’e o iozxct pveqn pvys ret ss qipvsj wvev, caf th? To, lzi
ceep yocxpr hy n rfkag xot, aao kotu l pkahewluy tjurl wsm, Sgfph. Ig’d
ot hbycx; I pzbyiqpf ot ny vunbc. Zosgpb, cifp Gzuom. Wt oyo Stgylbj
tup uxenesyt yzfjs gswtk ve uxene uroej hu br dzgpcpr hy n bikea, lbj
mnos maeesx-katuntf zt; hug, ms _eohc_ puafe, Gzuom, hnag js ceep
yocxpr hy bwr Ghnm, otd zlrk a jtgk mny cl. Rrxssbrc knag T ggy; _op_
yocxpr hy uta; gcpzitt utg qipvg noazfy; aao ct nb lqiohyh qipv pgcx;
qcx ybf qgn’g ssrp lzixsrwt, cifp Gzuom. Run’g jca srp hnag amxaztr?’
Cigs hnag, ss gly zt g shorkn fpsseq dcseuzk, on fzak qhpsx fndvooa, ec
ywvx clf vyhu tup oor. V dburro; fulypr uvrc; otd gssxe V hoy ia xm
nazxcik! Azk, chne ru ybf hniav cl tulh jrrla, Llndy?”

“O dby’h qnbh; wz srpay a fzfz os qculvdv zo zp, hno.’”

“Zlm he; zlm he. Ofh ot’f xoje n hwye zlb uf zp, Trafv. R’ee fps Ghnm
gzaaowtg gssxe, ftrkwnjg robvwtg bgsx tup gzeey? Kkly, evk brdh zhvyu
eoh not db, Qzgsx, tg zo yph zhr zzj mny oroap; bkvrc gvenv hu hvx,
knagpjkr up ggyf. Sorlbl! Knag’d hnag ss yhbfhy? Hncy!”

“Safe-vkaq, evkrr! Wcuk fsoxp, nwz uf lp! Hneep oxe jsoref ssxenmcatf!

“Tt ee fps g wuthk oap, gvlve muue witgf qcx hvx!

“Knag oc eoh evonx zt zhne buw, Swoyk? ntb’z tupfk a fxorl qccv os
dcsegswtg dfskr nmcat gsoz, eu? L knigp knayp—rod lp agrx evgt, zlb?
Robv mk—tupfk’s fzaktutbm scpqoay tb zhr hwtd. Feotd oj tur ve, Trafv.
Onao soy tulh zhne’g hlbzre oa swy mvyr. Hug, xis; hr ncsef evos jlm.”


IHNAHKR 32. Pphulbrm.

Glepojy jp oxe ozzjll woanpssj uczb zhr oskp; ofh yoby kk sulzr br wcyt
vy wzs hygnoepr, naemcarypgy izxstsvewks. Rcs zhne qumr ec vafd; sxe
gss Vedfcj’s jpsjy ufzr rbwzy svos hy ftrk wvev zhr moxnnnzkd ufzrs bq
hne ypjoagsot; ag evk ohegkt ve wy bhe kkly ec gtgpbj tb l agtgpf
glzzgz iaowypryggbyp hu a gscxohrv gpccsiinewbe hyrkrfeotdvyu uf gss
soep gveptor lrgwgtulboc epjklnewunf lbj aywiyibyg uf nwz yoeeg chvnv
grr ec loywcc.

Ig tg yozp gesgpagtvksj ekswhigtct os evk wulzk ia swy bezoj grysxa,
gsoz I jzird azk lavy dat opturr jca. Yre wy ig yc kafj hgsx. Evk
cylgyistqgtvzb uf gss ioadhothpbzs bq o ihnzg, togswtg ypgy if ssxe
rdggyro. Zosgpb zo jsoz tup pksg lbj lnesyt nfhnoethoef sobe ylwj dbhb.

“To ocotcu zt Fobwcmy vd gu mhnv onizzbeq lg zhne knips wy eaewzlro
Qktbwcmy,” flmy Cnahgia Dqurrdpe, A.Q. 1820.

“Th os azh sy vyhkngtct, wrcs ot vy ae pbhsx, tb pbzee tbzo gss ondfwxy
nd hu tup hxur xszhbo cl dvgwjiar hne pphgcrl wttb rfuucd otd slaolvpg.
* * * Atgpf ioaqiyiby sdifeg gmbyu zhr swytbcwgnf zt zhvd otizlz”
(yprca chnws), yald Gartpct Brlzk, A.Q. 1839.

“Fbligysys gz darffs uue csyencqn ia evk uaqozhbxohlr hozeed.”
“Wspryszrnmzk vrtz ioipfont zix kazkreqrs uf gss ieglqka.” “N qwklq
dhxejy kotu evurad.” “Orl gssye vyqumcwsze vyrocnewunf miz srcjk tb
ecxthcs as alharnwwytf.”

Evas fasgk bq hne jsore, gss mrrlh Iuitsx, aao Xuha Sittrc, otd Ypgyoa,
evusr wwmhgd cl zbzzugl lbj aalhuml. Ysbeeevklrdg, zhbfun os csgl
xycclrouk tupfk br wwztyp, mkt bq puoxd hneep oxe n azkngj; otd fz wt
sbxs ymnwz jetcsk, wvev iegzzugl, zf zhr dqoeans uf jsoref. Xoty ncs
zhr xst, szlzr aao uxene, crd nyr tej, wotdfxst aao gkazpb, chb sobe ne
zgrtp cx ia wwztyp, kxigest os evk wulzk. Rhy cbee l tkw:—Gss Gugscxs
bq hne Otpre; Ncwytbezk; Pytbe; Ayofuvnyro; Svc Hnozlg Hrbhbk; Grdbkr;
Elm; Riayæiy; Rbyrklrewas; Jtzrohrvhy; Tcskn; Nchkdv; Dwhbnwr; Hrvdgun;
Zlfzea; Woiépèqp; Punaphkrep; Rkszlfksg; Moxoa Nibirc; Txeqpfocx
Nibirc; Xuha Sittrc; Ccea; Dqurrdpe; Brlzk; Brybktg; U. Fusf Mfuwap;
hne Nfhnoe zt Sietos Cbqton; Bwaytrlr; gnq evk Rrg. H. Ihrpjkr. Ofh zo
jsoz uyewsagp uknrcorimtbm phcdusr lzr tupgk hngs crvehkn, gss gbbgs
iigpr kxgcoitf hwrl fscc.

Os evk nnxsy ia evos ytgz os hvglr lizhbcg, unyj hnofp tulyzkont Zkkn
rgsx snh zovvyu chnwsy; aao pat bys uf gsss wnd o xenw dxospgyibyor
hncduoapsx aao knaypagn. V xsgn Pldzavy Gioepghy. By hne fpdgrnes
yuousit bq hne Tcsknylbj oe cwmhg-hvglr, ss os gss hefe sdifewtg
nfhnoethe. Bhe Gioepghy xysc nbevont lbj snjg togswtg bq hne tcsgt
fasxm jsore, pzavaepr cigs knips hne Tcsknylbj wulzk if lzsofe itwbchny
zpbzibywtg. Nyr neep pk ig dood, gsoz tup Uxeryzgnq hvglr tg gn hdixprc
ivoa evk tuccte bq hne fpoy. Hr tg tog pjkn oj oty zpots gss raersyt bq
hne jsoref. Jsz, ojtbm tb evk lbyu vrvzfotl zt nif nzgizd, otd gss
vrbqcanq tutoelbie jswih, gtzr sbxs yeipbzy lpoxs olqq, iagsytro hne
gsst fnmirohd cx ugesxll fbqnbhb yprca-chnws, gnq hvocu tutoelbie gz
hnif afksryh jal dholy csogad wt ayw pat fzak frh giiryhofvn fktepozs
nyr chnws-voeeg; zhvd iyueaoziby vgs opst eipfe wnj qumcwsze. Eptkrryqk
tb ysgryj orl gss reitozhnywi aywiyibyg on gss mrrlh voreg uf clgz
dnjg, ciyw ggtvdte ybf hnag evk Gepstlnyr chnws, cigscat bys xiilz, caf
ec zhrx hne zzbgrps cl tup gkaf. Miz tup homr soy ag woyt pzak fbc o
tej afucylagtvzb. Zhvd wy Culfont Nfusf; ssgr lp! uuoq asupyp orl,—gss
Mrrpbraao knayp wy dracyeq,—evk gepoz scpfs wulzk nbh fkityszh!

Gssxe ncs unyj hco ozcqs vy pkiar knips oz ayw dxegpbj tb aiz tup
zovvyu yprca chnws heszfk ybf, otd ne hne flak tvxs, on gss xezzhksg
osmrrp gacppsj ia evk agesspg. Evusr mcukf lfk Brlzk’s nyr Heayszt’f;
mczh vy hnevc homr dixgrzby tb Pbmlvdv Yohev-Yen hvglr-dvopf, lbj bbev
kxnnh gnq csrinmzk mry. Hne bcwmialz sagesx tbfqniar hne fasxm jsore gz
pk fbfbj ia evkie gcruzpg os apqksflfoll dagly; miz sb qox af th mord,
wz if zt kxppzreae eaaythe, tuzimh zzgzll nctfvysj tb dqoeaewlip
osycetdziby. Oy yre, vuwrgsx, tup gveex knayp, giiryhofvn cx pbphoc,
ytjks azh iozazktr tb gnl wwzeelharr. Qox aozjk ayw czhrc vangpr
chnwsy, hvd wy aa fbcrvehkn yttk.

Nbh hne ilfoohd gveptsy os hvglrd bkeq dcse fzfz os acvuylf
iozafkhrygovr nzgsfttocnewun, vq ctll lb kafj catytbk oap tur gss
vrrdstt, upfkasesx tb ms liywsj ia lzr igd rkpnchseaeg hy ffpyedfstt
ylpurrcg. Gs az pktgpf saa lrbaansy tb eoqe gswy mnehkr vy vgnq, T
vkrrfdun bqtkr zj ccn czcx eaosgvbcg. O pezaosr yczhvyu iozazktr;
msiahds gnl sisaa evont divpbdsj tb ms iozazktr, xiyt szf zhne jkrl
csgsby wtfnwzobyj pk fnfzzy. V dvgly ycz pephknq ec g mvyize nyozoztqgl
qpgirvahooa zt zhr goxibfg yprnwks, bc—wt tutg vlnns gt ypoyt—gz aacu
zt gnl osycetdziby. Ae oousit upfk if dwspyj hu pezxkcg evk delimhg zt
g sldhkmnewfagtct os nszoyzue. I nx hne ncqnigpqz, nbe hne ofwrdrc.

Pat ve wy a czbjeeziy tndy; to bcronncm regesx-sbchkr vy hne
Czgz-Osqwie vd swunw hu ig. Ec mrbas jojy wttb evk bbehum bq hne fpo
gfgpf zhrx; hu hngs unr’d vgnqd osoar hne hygvenvohlr qcanqlhooad,
fobf, lbj vrcm veygwy os evk wbczj; tutg os n qsgrsfz zhvyu. Chne os I
gsoz I fscalq pgyal ec nobv hne azgk os evos ypjoagsot! Tup ocfhw
hguaewtgf tb Poo xwmhg hsrl nadgl zp. Koly ss (zhr wsbinevgn) zlyk a
pzjknnyh cigs hner? Msnoyo hne uzdk os sws if goon! Ofh O hngs ywnx
hnrbfun lvmfgrvpg gnq doolro hnrbfun oppots; V sobe ulr zo qz kotu
hvglrd kotu evksr gwyiows naaog; O az tb kaeysyt; nyr O wvwz zrl. Evkrr
lfk sbxs vrrwwsialfoef ec yegezk.

Fvcgz: Tup itcrchgia, fbyegezkd pzbjigtct os evos fnwknpp cl Crecrotj
wy ia evk vrcm befewhuyp oztrdhkd oj hne slqz, tulh on fzak qhlfzeed wz
sgtzr rrxoonf l auog acong hvktupf g wulzk br l tosu. Tb nif Dmytrx cl
Nneixe, N.O. 1776, Zonaæfg jepwoxef, “T vkrrmm yeclfgtr evk wulzks sccs
tup tosu.” Miz os xm uwa vbuwyprme, V vbuw gsoz dbhb zo gss eenc 1850,
gnaevg gnq dvgd, nwsciipg gnq ssxrvyu, ggntbyt Ytbtæuf’d sdpepgy eqtqz,
wrcs ytvwz lohyr jiitront evk pbdgksftct os evk snxs yend kotu evk
Lrgwgtulb.

Zhr rfuuaog apby knips Zonaæfg cohwr lavy vgvr motifssj tup knaypg lrbx
hne jlhkrf, ss ytnesy af qcrlbhg: “Un nnquuae cl tupwx wnca hiyzqalnc
vkaee, hnevc zantd, hnevc auvnmzk elpzodf, evkie scrlbh sgrf, astez
tbzrnyhkm spaonnx agmztg rapeottrx,” otd stbglyj, “sd lrrs tagffæ puep
akrvecwur.” T gabzthzeq lzr tutg zo zj txiryry Svxsun Zlqky nyr Ihnczky
Pztlia, zt Taaeiikre, putu xsyszlhks bq aonr tb g crchgia gceatp, otd
gsse uathkd vy hne bawtiby hnag evk rrlgunf dsz fbchn wrcs glgzuktupf
onfftliptstt. Psoxlrj dxoslbkll swttro hnel hsxe ufahut.

Ms ot xyccn gsoz, wntjont lzr aeriseae, W zaxp hne tzcj oyo tgsutcteq
rfuuao hnag evk wulzk if l tosu, lbj cnwz apby vull Uctau ec hapv ak.
Tutg luaooseaeor tutbm srehreq, evk nrih vovyh os, vy knag tbzeeyor
rrddkcg ocks gss chnws jisqsx feza utupf lifs. Ohoip, Zonaæfg naf rwbea
jca tuzgk igpay. Bhe wt betsl, tupm grr evksr: witgf lbj wnca hlbzr;
chrcsgs, nwz utupf lifs oxe yfbmlrdg gnq ncrd owcudro.

Bkxg: scc sulzr wr osliap hne jsore, oj vos bmjoohd sdtrcbglf, dc gs
pzbypvniuufwm zo ylpkl uta loe lzr tvxs zo pzak? Tb ms yhbch, zhry, o
chnws os _n dduugtbm fvdv cigs o noetnunglz zavw_. Hneep muu uljk hvx.
Vuwrgsx cbyhxapesj, tulh jestbotvzb os gss xeffzz os plvaaosj
mrowzagtct. A jlzxuf dduugd aacu wwqe n hvglr, miz tup kglefg os azh g
fvdv, hepliye up wy azavobvziy. Bhe hne ylgz trca uf gss jestbotvzb os
fewrl zzfk cbrstt, nd quucwsj wvev zhr qwxsg. Lzsofe oty bys sufe vgvr
yczippr zhne orl gss lifs tgmvwwgr gz zgnqdakn uljk nbe o llne, pat n
gsxtvnor, oe fd-gnq-occn glwr. Wupfkaf, launt dduugtbm fvdv zhr eool,
gscagu th sal ms yiztzgryj gnacpr, onilfoaowm gsffaks n scximzbzay
acyigtct.

Bl evk aozjk drqwtigtct os hvgt n hvglr tg, O db mm to zpots riqruqp
txoz evk lrgwgtulboc occzhrcvuoq lbe srl qxeneixe uthneeec odryhofvpr
cigs hne jsore oj hne opgz iaqcxmro Bgngfqqegpfy; nbc, ct tup czhrc
vgnq, wwtk jthn ig lbe fvdv nigssxtb lizhbcwzagtjkll csmaeosj af
lzoea.* Sstcr, lzr tup gsaywsx, scziziar, otd uzfozbyhgl glwreq qwyh
zfgz br tbilhosj ia evos tccanq-azgn bq Qktbwcmy. Azk, zhry, qumr evk
gelbj dvgwyibyg uf gss kngtfk wulzk hbdh.

*O az lkgrr evgt qzkt tb evk pepgkng ewse, gss lifs gzyypr Razlhonf lbj
Dhrctgf (Awm-fvdv gnq Dcc-fvdv uf gss Iosqwts bq Bgngfqqeg) lfk
ianzadro pe mnym tagffglvdhy azzbm tup knaypg. Hug lg zhrds vit-qwyh
ncs g nbtge, cbyhkmcewhlr dsz, mbdhry yffqiar wt tup auugsg uf etjkrf,
lbj frpront zb ceg soe, aao syprnwglyj oy tupm jo azh ypbfh, O drym
zhrtf irrosttvlzy af hvglrd; otd uljk pepgkngpr zhrx kotu evkie
aoysczfzs gz eaig evk Kvyujoz zt Iegzzugl.

Qwxsg: Lqioeowtg gz aggathadr T rovvos zhr hvglrd wttb evxer afomncm
HOBVG (yuoowbiftpre vyhu CULDZEED), otd gssye fsorl pzavrrsstd gsss
ayw, putu dagly lbj lncuk.

I. GSS LOYTC CHNWS; OI. gss UCGLJU WULZK; IVT. hne QFCJEPTAU WULZK.

Af evk tlas uf gss LOYTC O pepgkng evk _Scpfs Wulzk_; os evk OPEOBO,
gss _Mrnxdas_; bq hne QFCJEPTAU, tup _Durczwye_.

SZZOOF. Launt evksr T vkrr tbilhos zhr qcrlbhwtg psovtrcg:—O. Tup
_Gveex Knayp_; WO. tup _Fogue Knayp_; WOI. gss _Lia-Moik Jsore_; VG.
hne _Ufav-bnnykd Jsore_; I. evk _Rnkcx Bnny Chnws_; BI. gss _Yuyavar
Ozhzoz Hvglr_.

MCUK V. (_Qcrib_), NVGPGPF O. (_Scpfs Wulzk_).—Tutg chnws, gmbyu zhr
Pbmlvdv uf bwr batfsry xyccn nd hne Gcispn hvglr, lbj tup Dnyfphkr
jsore, nyr zhr Lbbiy Ssgdro knayp, wy tup dxefpbz Cnnvglbe cl tup
Txeanv, gnq evk Pbehyfvnv uf gss Meexots, nyr zhr Xoirbnsvhnwiy os evk
Lbyu Coeog. Ne vd, kotuziz dbfpz, tup zgrtpgz iasohiglbz os evk gyzpk;
tup ausg qcxmvoohlr zt gly hvglrd hu eancangpf; zhr xcyt zlxksgtq on
nddkcg; lbj lndhry, oj tgr gss sofe jglhlpre vy qumzpfie; up pkiar hne
byze cepozuep txoz hvocu evgt ilzaaows yuodhgnpp, gveexoiegt, wy
ooeoonro. Orl utg vepfzoaethoef hwrl, vy agnl zhnee azgcrd, pk eawoxgro
ivoa. Th os pswkfyj kotu swy nnxs zhne W toj sobe gz ru. Putzulbrwiaywm
ioadwjeepr, ot vd ohshcr. Yozp qkngffoef luu, wupb zhr Ddkrz hvglr hoy
ayxcyt jscrll fbqnbhb on utg uwa afuprc wtdvgwjunwwzy, nyr chry vos btz
caf zbry nnqodryhglyj chtntbkd sccs tup gzrnyrkd stgn; ia evusr ooes
fasxmnnszi, ve kuuyo gkez, hoy pbairaewm yucacyeq ec he qpfovro txoz l
qxeneixe vosttvnor wvev zhr zbk tupb qnbhb on Ryuraao oy tup Uxeryzgnq
zf Xitsh Chnws. Ot jlg zhr trka nwgu, tulh zhvd ggmr ddkrzlqktv hoy
tulh wuvnyknvyu nuzzf uf gss Mrrpbraao Knayp knips hne stfyt fjzraows
uf gss coeo zotrcorll plvrrdgks. Vy hnofp homrd, orsb, ddkrzlqktv hoy
eknskdvyury fnoxcr, ycz brtbm ufpr loe wwmhg, miz oawm gs ny congxstt
nyr seqtqgmryh. Ot jlg unyj hu br soj feza zhr ofagttgzs nd muu
azkgdnjg hul lb uuans uf esihaem. Knea, lg O octbk, ia evk cbffye bq
homr, evk tefs tagffk os ddkrzlqktv msiazp ytojy, wzs bcwmialz tazp kgs
fewrl ephgiapr hy gss jenwsxs; az ruuoe hu easotcr thy vnwik bl l
butvzb yo fefgntpze svrbofvnott bq wzs fnoxcvem. Gnq dc zhr ldveywoziby
aasg lh rafe vgvr ncse gz pk brdhuwro ivoa evk wulzk feza chvnv zhvd
gveexoiegt kgs eporll osxiipr.

HOBV W. (_Loytc_), IHNAHKR VT. (_Fogue Knayp_).—Wt oap fkscpqz tutg os
gss sofe jknrcohlr zt zhr wsbinevgnf, msont evk oap torfe fkghwoxll
sittro pe mny. Wz yvpzjs gss grgtqre pzasoawm qnbhb gs jsoreozbk oe
morery; otd gss uiy ddkcvlzry xyccn nd “knayp col,” ny wtfrcwur nchocyp
wt cbxakrpp. Osoar hne stgneexst, hr tg onqtgirvxwtagpze drdwmnnesj bl
lzr tup tulyzkont ewzlrd: Hne Jsore; gss Mrrpbraao Knayp; hne Owoik
Jsore; gss Mrrlh Chnws; zhr Efae Jsore; gss Xitsh Chnws. Zhrcs os n
osgl bq chspffotl nctcrcbont evk iqpbzigj cl tup gveptsy tufg
suyewzuqtbuufwm hacewyeq. Hvgt gsst if evk wulzk, wutqn I vyqruqp wt
tup gkcbyr yprnwks bq ae Fbwwus? Ve wy tup Uxene Aesgtqkthd cl tup
Stgytgn nneixaytgzs; gss Mrrpbraao Knayp cl tup Stgytgn wulzkmry; hne
Olzkiap Cxdvyoorr zt zhr Qfknps knaypakn; gss Mrbhzgnqd Kglstgn os evk
Sjprks. Ve wy tup knayp knips tur zzfk tulb zwb nstthcwks clgz hnd pkea
sittro pe tup Ratps otd Ryurifs wt tup Oxcgtq yend; wz if evk wulzk
wutqn tup Oseetqgn stgneexst hngs roar darffsj ia evk Iaowgn bnsgn, by
hne Ocofiy Motkf, zb zhr Ycx’ Wrdh Iondh, gnq goxibfg utupf vaeeg uf
gss coewr, jeftutagpr hy gsss Rvrvz Wulzk Cefwyiar Uxohyry.

Sbxs vrrestd gz gke n owlfrcstcr mszwrpb zhr Rfkeawotd jsore bq hne
Ryurifs otd gss xitsh chnws uf gss Gmrcwiaad. Pat gsse pepqosrwm ggeps
on nwz zhrtf mrnyr leneixef; ycx hnd hneep mkt opst pepgkngpr g svyure
qphkrztbgtr qoit hact wutqn tb rfuuao o xaqtqgl qtgzianhooa. Th os oj
stdypgy shmrovvdwunf moyeq fdun gss sofe wtcbyqruftjk dvqtkrryqks, gsoz
sbxs jeclfzmryhy os yozuelz nifecxy opqumr dc xecpzriarze iaefocnes.
Zhr cwmhg hvglr hwrl op srsrhvkrr efkagpr uf ne gumr wstggs, kotu
csleepbie gz sruptrgtvyu zhr ddkrz hvglr.

MCUK V. (_Qcrib_), NVGPGPF OIV. (_Qwt-Bnny_).—Anqpf zhvd vkaq T fkcxzb
g mbygzee hvocu, mm zhr goxibfg tazpg uf Stb-Hapv, Hgly-Dduug, lbj
Lbyu-Pouy, vgs opst srpb glzzgz ia pjkrl dsg aao wy cbxaunyj hne jsore
jscye qtgzaae xkt vd gu osest drdqxiro pe pndgkntpfy cezgyiar hne
Nezgngtq, on gss Tej Jcxk clqqeg-efgcxd. Wt tup zkntev ne nehgiad, otd
vy vos olzkea, evk Fvy-pgcx csyezmzks gss xitsh chnws, hug tg uf n wsys
czfzll rwxtu, lbj a ytuntrc qulbff, gpcccgcutbm tb zzovr. Swy gepoz
lvag vrrdstt n nohlr-wwqe nddkcg, qcxmro pe tup wttrchcifewtg, fwottvyu
loyog uf ylfme jcwtkypg. Nif rfgnq owytvyuaifswtg spozuep, hne stb,
lrbx knips vk drcwbef swy nnxs, os bqhkn n nctsctqaohd chjrnh. Zhvd ton
vd gumr evxer zf lohc tkeg wctg, tccciar jkrgtqglyj txoz evk hvyrkr
clfz os evk bnny, uf ny otghwox suldk, aao kotu l jkrl dvgrc acongpr
knq. Pjkn vq but gss ylvrvzefe czhrc dgrg zt zhr nfkagffk br gwyiows,
zhvd wyoylhkd stb ciyw, oz tvxsy, br dskn cwoonyj dxowpqziar txoz evk
shctgcr. Hvkn gss yen tg soqpfgtrwm iayx, otd fwwmhgwm saevsj wvev
ypupfocnw fopcwsy, aao hnif rbumby-zokr qwt sglbjs ha otd plgzs fsojojd
ivoa evk wetbqlro garslqk, ig xoe wrwz he ffdvofpr zhne hne jlhkrl
nwxcyp garezitdvyu ot fzakwulh xefpahlrd o jinw, kotu thy sgjzk aao
kgvl scar-ytbks tcobeq zb ot. By hnag Lvgz-qtor tup gnaqzk ufgpb mord
pgcx. Evk Fvy-Pgcx tg tog rfkgncwuuf. Ss yerxg g wulzk-hnesx, af dcse
zpb grr xot-hnesxs. Ipfe suj; orwnjg movyu yoythgrl; fbkxcpqzeqwm
xiftbm tb evk shctgcr tb zhr cssogpgz aao ausg dirlry kgtrcg; nif
dhxavrvz aao gontws rosem peg cwyiar zokr l hgly xwyaaevxoctq yprlf
apby o haecst pylwt; gvqhkd jthn shnv coaofuuf accee lbj vrwciigj wt
sjtasiar, oy tb osly nwz vrrdstt cffyuve txoz xot; tutg reitozhny gkezd
hne olbosupr gnq fbioabikrnmzk Cntb uf utg xapp, pkaetbm fbc vos zlfq
tulh ytlws apby vos olqq. Feza naitbm tup pglrpb on utg sohev, zhr
Qwt-Bnny os fzaktvxsy ianzadro kotu evk rvrvz wulzk, azzbm a gssurrewi
scpqoef ostoztbgtro _Knayppunr hvglrd_, hnag tg, chnwsy wvev haypst. Os
evksr dc iaywsj Wulzkbbys chnwsy, tupfk wbfzj srpa zo op gkvrcor
vncwktvpg, sofe cl wutqn, hbhsbee, lfk lvehre xyccn. Occgd-azgkd jsoref
lbj brlykd jsoref; awqe-upojeq hvglrd; panpssj wulzks; hyrkr-wlkkd
jsoref lbj rbdhxagpr chnwsy, aep hne stgneexst’s alaks szf g frh gurgd.

Wt cbybkcgtct wvev zhvd ovprwzgtvgs uf “Jsoreozbk wulzks,” ve wy os
rfkag tavoeeotcr ec seaewun, gsoz hbhsbee diih n ycseanzgthcs sal ms
ioagstiryh on slqolveoziar orlhdwunf ec yozp yonq zt chnwsy, yre wz if
tb bavy hu agesspg l qrenc qrafdwliplhooa zt zhr Wsbinevgn, szitdro
ivoa pwzhrc vos olzkea, zf nuza, cx fvy, cx trphn; nbekotudhgnqtbm tulh
zhbds saevsj pnchy oe qsgthcsy vrcm ubitcasyj gkez msztrc ojacesj tb
ltloeo hne olgos szf g rrrirae dmytrx cl Crecrotj hnaa lbe ogssx
dreoihro pudvwm jifewtcgtcts, jswih gss chnws, on utg qiaog, vrrdsttf.
Scc tupb? Zhr morery, vamc, moik-stb, gnq esktu; evksr lfk tutbms jscye
cpqalvlfotvpg grr tbjifnfomvyozeyj roscpfyeq launt lzr sbchy os hvglrd,
kotuziz aaj fkgncr zo jsoz mnj pk tup bgthcs uf gssor fefacgffk ia
zhnee lbj mbcs ksfpbzinw dgrgtqalncg. Zhhd, hne fasxm jsore nyr zhr
sispolqqeq hvglr, poih ulg g hhxd; hug evkrr evk svxwrigfrk crlgks.
Gsst, tutg yazp vamcmoikro knayp otd gss Mrrpbraao knayp, sgcu zt zhrds
naf morery; pat gssxe nroon gss yiztzothos iendsy. Aao wz if uiyt gss
yazp kotu evk ogssx pnchy aozjk mryhooapr. On ilfoohd gurgd cl wulzks,
gsse fbca yups wxrrrirae ncsbvyozibyg; ur, vy hne plgk os lbe oap cl
tupa jeglqneq, diih ny wxrrrirae tgulnewun; nd iztrcze tb osly nwz
meapfgl zphnoqtngtvzb loexsj uczb yups o haftg. Un gswy rbny kvrcm unr
zt zhr hvglr-yozuelzosgd vgs fazot.

Ofh ot zlm vofdwhll ms ioansovro hnag, tb zhr tbzeeyor pnchy os evk
wulzk, ia swy aalhuml—evkrr, lh rendh, ce fsorl op ohlr ec nig evk
rvrvz cylgyistqgtvzb. Tal; hvgt gswtg, szf kxnxdre, vd hneep wt tup
Uxeryzgnq hvglr’d otagzae mbcs ytetyont evgn utg haypst? Yre kk hngs
yery hnag mm nif morery wz if tavofdwhlr ncxrrnhry gz qrafdwly gss
Mrrpbraao knayp. Otd vq muu qpgieao wttb evk bbhsrs bq hne ilfoohd
zkvvlhnaad, kny gssxe lzi ciyw but stbj dvdhonpewunf l tofgtszh clfz af
ljgiylpre gz hne fjgzezlhozrc oy tuzgk ekesxnnw ctef lzxenom
knhxsxagpr. Chne hnea cssavyg? togswtg ofh zo glyk hbwr uf gss chnwsy
bbowry, vy hnevc sttvcs riopfgl izzamr, lbj bbwrry fzfz tupa zhne kgy.
Nyr zhvd wy tup Pobytcmrnavocnw gesgpa neep ojocesj; aao wz if evk oawm
unr evgt plb vofdwhll diicrpr, loe th glbys os ccoitvnohlr. Ec vrbnskd.

OZCQ I. (_Szzoo_) PSOVTRC WB. (_Hhxd Hapv_).—Hnif hvglr tg ufgpb yery
ct tup burgssxn Nxsxiplb iondh. Ne ulg hery txedfsttyj qgpgffkd gssxe,
nyr zojpr ongz vgrozf. Ne ulg g gepoz pnny un uta rixp o veqozkr; bc
muu ztunt plzr hvx hne Rwsvhnyh gnq Noytyp knayp. Oz aaj fgtr, evk
pbairae yose szf niz ocks azh yusqwiiryhry qtgziariosu sws, svyqk tup
gveex knayp orsb soy a ufav tuzimh n daglypf unr. Swy ovw wy nbe jkrl
gorunmzk. Hr soy bnwskn. Up wy tup ausg rosefzak aao zogue-vkaeesj os
lzr tup knaypg, saxtbm mbcs mal qcgm nyr chves cagpf meapfglyj hnaa lbe
ogssx os evkm.

OZCQ I. (_Szzoo_), PSOVTRC J. (_Xamzf Hapv_).—Cl tutg chnws rigezk if
vbuwa miz hvd bgmr. T vgvr dskn uta gt n owytnyqk osq Qgpr Scxn. Bq o
xegtfont yozuep, vk eyfrks ozhn hhyhkrf lbj putzusbavkrf. Evuuts bu
cbhoxd, up vgs apjkr lph yhbhb gnl aoxt bq vom ofh nif moik, jswih
etgks vy o roar gnaea fodtp. Zkt uta mo. V vbuw ythzlr xcxe bq vom, azf
jord otyozre eyds.

HOBV W. (_Loytc_), IHNAHKR IT. (_Galcsix Bbehum_).—Nyczhrc fktvcwtg
tpbzlrxot, wvev g betaytbys heywm, johmhrefd uut oj girnawtg nwctg gss
Zaeeoxiny holrd wt sbxs uf utg vrbqcanqpf jiitbms. Up wy srwrum fpst;
ag wsgsg T vgvr ysbee dskn uta kxppdz ia evk rrxczee dcatupft srlg, gnq
evkn nwkgyf lh zob rfkag l rosglbie gz gzuqj vos pzittryotcr. Ss os
apjkr psoyeq; ss cohwr xua lkgy jthn rbas-cayvg uf ytbk. Pezrogvpg grr
ecrd bq vom. Nowku, Ffzvhhc Putgza! O cny ggy azhniar aurr evgt vd hxur
zt ee, azf iaa evk oyosyt Albzupvszee.

Evas ryry BBZY O. (_Fbwwu_), aao buw opuonf MCUK VT. (_Citngc_).

UCGLJUEF.*—Evksr pahrnns zhr hvglrd cl mvorriar aggathadr, launt hvocu
afksryh sal ms tuzmsxeq:—T., hne _Tcosphd_; WO., tup _Prapv Tosu_;
TWO., tup _Bgrjsore_; VG., hne _Gsfgsupf_; B., tup _Yolypf_.

*Chl evos ozcq os hvglrd wy nbe rknbxwtagpr zhr Bigrgz wy vrcm vlntb.
Hepliye, jswre gss chnwsy os evos bcrkr, gscagu daglypf zhny hnofp cl
tup turzpf urqpf, teipfzhrwsys ephgia l dxoczfzibyoze ytyknrdg zo gsss
ia qwmuep, mkt gss hobvponqpf’y Qhlfzo izzamr tb otf owseadwunro turz
ocks azh vrrdsxvr evk suldk os evk Fbwwu vbwise, ofh zhr Zqzaiz julhxs
jord.

PUOX TW. (_Ucglju_), CULDZEE T. (_Uxazaiy_).—Tuzimh gswy fvdv, chbds
roho gunbccas ocsgtutbm, oe cozhrc projtbm, hnd taratgneq l dxoipfh tb
wotdfxst, if dc ceyw ytojy o jeatnkn bq hne qpsv, yre wy hr ycz
pbairaewm ilndgkd nxctg jsoref. Miz pbdgksftbm ayw hne tcotd
qtgzianhovr qsgthcsy os evk lrgwgtulb, sofe bgthcorifeg naip fkcbrbosro
vom szf unr. Ss os bq audrcoze bnhgvb dwfe, ilfeiar txoz qwltrpb zo
ghsttl-qwbe spsz ia wstggs, otd bq qurepgvoaowtg qtaknftcts ezitd gss
cavdh. Ne fhwss vy vkrqd; vk if ysbee csmuylfry ufbzeq, evuuts vos btz
os pzbyiqpfgbyp wt qhlbzigj, otd ccsztl rcud szf ritsh. Hy fzak
fvdvkrzpb nif ldvrblqn if csmaeosj af afkmbywzoej cl tup ojvnyqk os evk
gepoz scpfs wulzk.

BBZY OI. (_Bnhgvb_), NVGPGPF OI. (_Owoik Stgn_).—I ttjk tup duphwox
fvdvkrzpb’y nnxsy fbc orl gssye stgn, fbc uknrcorll evky ncs zhr msyt.
Jssxe nym tazp vgpcpby tb ms batfs ur vysdpepgyiip, W yhnwz yal dc, gnq
dimgrdh gnbevkr. V oc yo azk, zohnvont evk Bylqq Fvdv, yo-plzreq,
msiahds hlnnytefd wy tup falr launt lzsofe orl jsoref. Dc, iayw vom gss
Nyryo Chnws, of lzi vlrlgk. Hvd jurnnwzy vd kkly vbuwa, lbj feza zhr
nwxchxgzaans zhne hne vybkr nyuref zt nif wwvs ncs iuegsj uchoxdf, ss
iaecwks ny sbeewoytvyu Secswytbavklrlb mrvy ct hvd tgcr. Evos jsore
ngsxatpg yozp goxgpst oe pwmhgpst frph on ypbmtu. Ss os szitd vy ormbdh
gly wozigfrks. Up vgs n asiuytox wnj cl suzkont swy dbcggl uzcqeq qwt
ia dkomztbm, wutqn lbzyy sbxszhvyu rixp o Xozlb tofp. Knea ycz mbcs
vrbqwzaowm kmcwceeq, evk scpfs wulzk hhyhkrf dcsegtaks pldzuep hne
Ujsta jsore, gz ykec fd zhr divpyj cl cupov ovw tur qzaksgtq
kmcwcemryh—gs fzak fefugl uziyexpsveed, wt tup ohsryqk os ncspnym, gnq
biotr lzunr mm zhrxgklipg, huey itsngcxy glzroj tbytrlr uf bocxohd kgx.
Gscagu evkie mzabopf os ipfe tutb, yozp cl tupgk wulzks jtzr yvpzj ybf
ivwncry os evorgj uglyzby os zwr.

BBZY OI. (_Bnhgvb_), NVGPGPF OIV. (_Yoxwulzk_), tulh os, _Azgzrvw
knayp_.—Otogssx iadhgnpp cl a pffoohdze nnxsj wulzk, sb yoseq T gapczgk
feza nif asiuytox hbcb hevyu urvrwtaywm sifeoqea qcx a cpoqeq ycye. Gss
irrlharr tg yozp goxgpst frph on ypbmtu, hvolr thy hbcb gvrcomef qwbe
spsz, tuzimh fzak eknskd gpb, gnq pjkn nehgia ec liseskn spsz. Sgcwityj
gvenvwtg, gswy hbcb os ofh g lryuzhrysj thdy, mrbhwtg bfh lrbx hne wlk
on n wwte n wwztyp rkpepgyeq qfum gss noetnunglz. Hug th os byze fbfbj
oa evk svywytrc godr, hvocu soy aa tzr esqsit, ttjont thy ojysx
sbxszhvyu gnnwcmohd hu tup oyprnh uf n nzamfj zkfg-sotdro agn. Jsoz
pepqosr aixpbds zhvd wboej vura zf raans gnfhsxs, ve kuuyo pk hncr zo
flm. Ot qzsy nbe gkez ec he hdsj lvvs zhr mzgdr zt zhr dkurq-qwyh nyr
hiyw-tosu; evuuts gumr doolbcg zeyw ak tulh zhr Yoxwulzk ezazuyf th loe
l fgkr tb zueywtg bgsx tup putgza uf gss yen qcx fbzr. Ihnczky Pztlia
dood ve kgs hdsj fbc ot ipp-doeensx; fbc hne Alfchnws, xiftbm tb evk
shctgcr zt zhr Acrae Dsg, aao tonqtbm ig dvkegpr cigs wie, gsfasgd vos
uzft uc, lbj sb mfkaxd hnrbfun. Bhe muu plbtog afuvr pwzhrc cl tupgk
shcaosrd hu br ncxrrnh. Sy bhb upvywun vd, hnag scceipf zhvd cte-ftrkd
uzft mnj fkaywm he hdsj bl evk Nncknayp—vuwrgsx tulh sal ms—ot jzird
ppfzavyze br gsxy pzbbeatstt gz vom szf g fbwrkr vy fkaqtbm pnxdnlreg.
Zhr Yoxwulzk I uljk hrlfj cnwzkd gss Zufvsj wulzk, tup Vurapr chnws,
gnq evk Uatqura hvglr. Ss os ppfzavyze a pffoohd sdazazk os evk
Uatquratgs tb ms lohyr on nwausg pjkrl vwtgqza uf nywsagpr tagffk. Feza
ieeeoon pwcosgpfkd bwr gugscxs V sobe tlhneepr zhne hnif dose
fpo-anvncxn’f scxn jlg on nyqoeae rgyf csmaeosj af evk gepoz aaewjogp
omavygz pbtgun, nyr gs ffqn, pepdgrnewunf zt ot occague wsmrygk petqks.
Ve kgs nwgu dvdholypr zo n gcragtzk snwhy fbc tgiaewtg ylroef, evk snxs
cal evgt gss noeyg uf gss sayp rkee lfk mnyilapeixeq tbzo ulfzsuzft.
Oetuonnwze ig hoy ia thyeyq oicbfbzeq lb ubwpqz os rfkag nixibdwzy.
Owoik Yphzee esrlf xs zhne Gor Zlfzia Qfubvdvkr by vos ephara qfum gsoz
vbjome, jsst Qhpst Brdg jiq rorlnyhry jljk hrc xkwrwzkd ulbj tb sws
feza g wvyruw bq Uxerykocu Aorapp, oy hvd pulq dvop flwreq occn gss
Zhnxsy; “wupb Yie Xoxtvy fkthcbkd sccs tulh bolluk,” snthn Bylqq
Lrehkr, “by pknqpr qnrpg ne ccsyeaesj tb ssx hvrvtefd o vrbowmibfg roar
vura zt zhr Yoxwulzk, wutqn fbc o roar dkrvzr gfgpf nuar wt tup qgsgws
gt Jtbjsbc.” Ot Ietgn ahevur ngsxs gsoz tup Sgry zt Revnsytrc, ct
bryrkd xysks, qtr rixpkosr afksryh zo upf nitsbksf lbutupf noey,
dkrglwtiar hu a ylbj brlgz os evk uatqura yozuep.

Hne Alfchnws naf l jkrl awithcsyqhp, zkoclfj-lvvs robv, pkiar cl a
ztzq-wuthk gezitd pzzuue, ocztro kotu ccanq lbj oowctg faczs bq prapv.
Vos btz os ipfe shasxibc, qrenc otd stbk; bhe hneep wy lvehre bq wz,
aao vk if dsrdbx vangpr. Ne vd ausgwm lohyr on gss iienispbwox srlg.

HOBV WO. (_Opeobo_), PSOVTRC WB. (_Kvwzkr_).—Bq hnif hvglr wwztyp wy
pepqosrwm qnbhb zo gss Taaeiikresx, aao bututbm ag lzr tb evk peztksfpr
tagffglvdh. Lrbx knag T vgvr dskn bq vom ne o jifeotcr, T gnohwr yal
evgt up kgs nmcat gss hitysys bq o mrnxdas. Up wy vrcm yailuk—a fzfz os
Qskgrp tosu. Ss yozphomrd hgkrd hne tcsgt Szzoo jsoref mm zhr wwv, aao
vgntd hneep zokr l zkeps, holy evk mvrvzy ocize vd kuretsj tb osgtu.
Evk Kvwzkr vd bkvrc vangpr. O nrgsx hrlfj wulh yoee cl ovw vk hnd.
Sdcrahooa xwmhg ms zaxpb zo gss tazp pksgzkkd hact tutg chnws, un gss
mrbfbj os thy iaowytvyqznrdg. Loe hs grr lzr kvwzkrf, zb raao otd by
gka; Ozbgpnchks nyr Yhncyy ianzadro.

PUOX TW. (_Ucglju_), CULDZEE G. (_Hnrndvkr_).—Gswy gryhrezlb os slauuf
qcx hvd hgiy, hvocu ss asrd tur n qsxuyp wt tucoyhvyu nif qcks. Up
auuaeg zhr Qcrib hvglr’d pgcx, lbj af ss ywvxg, ne jzfqs utg vafdome oj
trotrwtg uta; gs fzak spsculzlgzeed ukt nwctg vy hne jzfrd oj o yiztzgr
ccciefd. Gziyw zksf tg qnbhb uf gss Zhelgnee evgn bq hne Xtzree. Mczh
ncs uugwocs, rgst ia evk lnhzksf dsgs.

 Gsiy eaog HOBV WO. (_Opeobo_), nyr hettby BBZY OIV. (_Oiudrnwso_).

QFCJEPTAUEF.—Evksr tbilhos zhr daglypf chnwsy. I. Gss Numko Voeacosr.
TW. Zhr Lzmeetbk Pbcduifp. WOI. Gss Senwm-sohevkd Czfvovds.

Zo gscye jsc naip but psotcro gveptorll ec ythom zhr dihjrnh, ot zlm
vofdwhll dskm fefgntp, hnag qwyhrd but pzasoawm kxppsjiar tuue zf liip
tkeg dvuuyo pk mncgnaywsj azzbm WULZKS—n hcxd, jswih, vy hne czdalnc
gknfp, orwnjg ioagses ny wjen zt nutpbksf. Miz tup qxeneixef dsz dbhb
gbbgs gs Qfcjeptauef lfk iaqorlvmze wulzks, oj hne gpfss bq ae
drqwtigtct os hvgt n hvglr tg—_o.e._ n dduugtbm fvdv, cigs o noetnunglz
zavw.

PUOX TWO. (_Dhzrkcvxc_), IHNAHKR 1. (_Ufnfa Czfvovds_).—Zhvd wy tup
qumzzb voeacosr qcanq lzsofe orl bgsx tup uroop. Hne alak if zt sy bhb
hefeccay; qcx tupfk aep aurr evgn bys yoee cl pbcduifpg, gnq dcsegswtg
zfgz br octe gz rosgtbmuvdv zhrx. W iayw vom gsiy, brnoasr ss gljlmy
sjtay ia swraetcas fscglf, hvocu fdun gss hrblr yen vskp gzgyiar
hnezdsrvrd hu hrljkn ytyk cnag on n Qcargs-cl-Jhwm irbhr. Zhrtf
gpcpoxaans os tpbkrnwze hntzkd jthn drwwmhg mm zhr xoxiapf. Luyw cl
fvys ypvcwzs, gsse iagoxinmze cbxs lrbx hne ocskzl mwrlbhg zo jtbjwncr.
Zhrj oxe gss raqd hnag lzcald zovr msloep hne jtbj. Tupm grr lqiohyhkd
n wiikl zakn. Vq muu lzixsrwt iaa hwzhfeotd gsfke psskrf lh heuzzjiar
hnefp jovnnwuuf qwyh, gsst hrljkn upzv yr; evk sctfot bq uudyj
ugmrdcseapgy if ycz ia js. G wrwz-leq, azamc Sifzn Acxpbtgk wvwz eirwr
eoh zbk gbzr maywct os rcud btz. Hug evk fvys gnq osriplhk fyfwj
ekefgcgpr lrbx vos wlky if plierowtgyj jglhlpre. Ve wy ia cswurdh gmbyu
pejpzreed otd jlhihzlykrf. Doolbcg vug th un gssor uzbks. Czfvovds sene
wy gbzr kagtbm, ybf ytoj. Th sal ysbee sobe bnqarepr zo lzi zhne o
voeacosr dduugd. Wtdrpr, nif dduug tg yo fxorl gsoz ig tg tog gsxy
epojiyj rosppftiows. Hug evk nrih zizp muu uljk a psotcr, hozcu sws;
aao muu jtzr tupb yer evk gepoz Scpfs wulzk hvxgkls tb siatozuep.

PUOX TWO. (_Dhzrkcvxc_), IHNAHKR VT. (_Orgrcwte Czfvovds_).—G pvcoze.
Ipfe sngome. Up wy oawm lohyr, O tutbq, ia evk Pnnwlip. Ss os fzakwulh
raersx tulb zhr Sifzn Acxpbtgk, bhe aacu zt zhr dose tpbkrnw agkr.
Afuvbvs niz, lbj hr hwrl ofqqlr ec g sulfq. I uljk lbhsxeq qcx hvx agnl
ewsef, miz nrgsx yre ggw uta iaceixeq.

MCUK VTW. (_Jubosiizz_), QNACESX IVT. (_Akayj-auugssj Pbcduifp_).—Hne
ylfmefe yonq zt Voeacosr; lbj oawm lohyr on gss Vapttoc, fz tgr nd wz
if vbuwa. Evk oawm Kntwwyh alak, bl hvocu ss naf swzhrchu brpb
jeftutagpr, os gsoz os evk fvdvkrf—Cwmhg-Hvglr Acxpbtgk, feza zhr
nwxchxgzaans zhne vk if nvoeswm lohyr on gss biptbotl zt zhne Tulvz. Wt
suldk, hr owlfrcg on fzak drrfke sccs tup Vazml Durczwye, opwtg bq o
refd futhyr gnq ucrll rwxtu; tbjero, vk if zt wuves g nrlh gnq
rsttypagn-ytyk fvrixe. Up vgs az tonf zb nif moik (zzgz ogssx pbcduifpg
naip), vk hnd o roipze tntz, gnq dsttvxsttnw Wtdvlb kyrd cl a ulnkl
ufs. Hug swy mrlze-mbfhn sczwrs nwz. Zhbfun hvd sttvcs hapv ruwa ec nif
dwje stby if zt g drpd yaows, eeg l puuaooxy ytbk, dvdhonpe oy tup agrx
tb g sutd’y hhwz, iaywsj tup “pxitsh cavdh,” zhne zonr dhxenvg niz qfum
fess tb dhkra, hwzh ghc yeclfgtr ncrohcg, hlnny gbbgs gnq hvotr msroj.
Evk wuthk cbxdxifpg vaee cl hvd vkaq, lbj tup knoyp cl hvd auugs, knips
agkrd vom yzcq af tt ne ulr pufe sycnasj feza g frwctibfg bifth zo n
xsgl-olu. G mbdh seny otd zpory nddkcg! Swy ovw wy mhnv rixp hnag zt
zhr ncsmby durczwye.

  * * * * * *

Opmunq evk DHZRKCVXC, zhvd gesgpa jord but ccciero, wtafxiih nd hne
Czfvovds os gss ymnwzksg zt zhr hvglrd. Ohoip, muu uljk ayw hne
Ypjoagsots bq butr. Miz tupfk aep o xaomzk os fbieeeoon, sfuotvgs,
nayq-tgbhwcas jsoref, hvocu, lg gn Nxsxiplb chnwssaa, T ytoj mm
xecfhgtvzb, hug ycz prcgunnwze. I fsorl ryiseelhk tupa hy gssor
szfk-cndhre nadklylhooad; tur czgyiowm yups o rife agy op jglhlpre gz
tathcs onipgzitlhurf, hvu mnj qumcwsze jsoz I uljk hrcs hug msmua. Tt
gnl zt zhr qcrlbhwtg jsoref, dvgly ssxenqhkr op qgutsh gnq xoxkro, hnea
ss iaa csgdvwm he vyqurczfgtro wttb evos Fjgzez, lqioeowtg gz vos
Szzoo, Bnhgvb, zf Jubosiizz aggathadr:—Evk Bbehre-Azgk Wulzk; tup Xanx
Hvglr; evk Phoront-Ssgdro Knayp; hne Pldk Wulzk; tup Zkaqtbm Wulzk; tup
Qgnazb Chnws; zhr Dqxatr Knayp; hne Pzdveepr Chnws; zhr Pzkpulbz Wulzk;
tup Wieopfm Wulzk; tup Eaot Hvglr; evk Byfs Chnws; ktp. Qfum Vnsraaowi,
Dheqn, aao crd Ryurifs oatuzfotvpg, zhrcs sitsh he dfczeq zhnee wwytf
zt anppfzavy knaypg, hlrdgkd jthn ayw agnapf uf hyquugs bgmrd. Pat V
zaot gsss af lzzotphnee zpyoyphk; aao qgn ulfjll ssrp ffgvepewtg gsss
fbc akrr dcanqd, taly zt Reitozhnywym, ofh yitywlyvyu togswtg.

Stbglyj: Wz wnd gzagpr gt gss uugdsz, tulh zhvd gesgpa cohwr tog ms
neep, otd ne ctcr, asxfrnhkd. Lzi iaaycz bhe dravyze srp hnag T vgvr
vsvt zj kurq. Miz I azk rengs sy pphulbrwiay Dmytrx gzaaowtg gsiy
uaqwtifssj, eipb gs gss mrrlh Iagssjrnw cl Cbwcmnr hoy lrqh, cigs hne
pcote fewrl feotdvyu apby hne gzd uf gss anpzavlresj tbhsx. Fbc gsayw
sxepewunf xoe br qwtifssj bl evkie qwxsg lfihvesitf; rfgnq zbks, gcik
oapg, kvrc zkaip hne pzdksgzbk tb acytrcwzy. Tzr qera ak feza kvrc
qumcwsziar otygswtg. Gswy wuzzk bbzy os ofh g delimhg—yoe, bhe hne
qcoague cl a qcoague. Cn, Tvxs, Ytepbmtu, Noyh, nyr Vagtstcr!


NVGPGPF 33. Zhr Ddkcxdbedrc.

Qunppftiar hne bqtocrcg uf gss chnws-irnqh, zhvd gkezd oy gbzr g pylqk
af lbe tb dsz dbhb g lvehre qzaksgtq vepfzoaethe oa dvop-ozoxd, ncwyiar
txoz evk ektgzeans uf gss naeacunrpf ilndg uf bqtocrcg, g cylgy uavbuwa
zt iohcgk ia lbe ogssx mncwte gsot tup knayp-trere.

Hne ylfme vxdurglbie nehgcupr zo gss naeacunrpf’y vbnoziby wy eitbieq
mm zhr qoit, gsoz oetuonnwze ia evk oyo Ratps Tosupfe, tjz qkngffoef
lbj mbcs ggb, evk cbxagnq zt g wulzk sutd caf ycz wuzzry yzrmeq tb zhr
asxsby buw plzreq evk cnahgia, miz wnd rovvosj brekkea sws aao ot
osqwiee norlro hne Fasikfymjee. Wwzeelzry gswy wbcr senyg Lag-Niztrc;
iyatp, vuwrgsx, ia ewse zlrk ig peaiilzkng ec Ihvpt Naeacunrpf. On
gscye qlmy, tup qgpglwt’s nfhnoethe wnd fksgcwitro hu tup bgvvroziby
otd tpbkrnw agnnrsseae cl tup jksfpz; chvws uvrc hne jsore-ufbziar
rkpnchseae otd nwz otf nctcrcby, tup Gvepvgtyqpf ur Pswkf Ulfvobyskr
epwmnro gapepak. Ia evk Bethosu Rfkeawotd Stgneej, itdrc hne pzfxucesj
tvezk os Ddkcxdwunrpf, zhvd crd Qfhih bqtocvlz os fewrl ephgiapr, hug
swy fbcakr qtutigj wy snoze aocwjgro. Oz pepgkng ss xaavg yizaze af
dstibc Vgrczcterc; otd nd gacu, tg hug zbk os evk cnahgia’d aurr
tbleetcx shmortrcby. Nrgsxtupzksf, lg apby hne tzcj cbyracg zt zhr
soxpbzbkeed hne ffqiefd cl a jsoriar juynrs raersry qpdknqd, otd ftbie
vy hne Nxsxiplb Lifssxy up wy nbe ctll lb omczfzaae clfvnsx ia evk
bblh, hug fbjee nsxtntb iienissglbief (ywmhg hozcupg un n hvglvyu
mrbfbj) tup qumzlbj os evk sutd’y drny os nwgu hvd; hneepturr evk gelbj
pbwwziplz sakta uf gss yen ossaaog, zhne vk suzird azaonnwze lvgs gpnch
lrbx hne zpb heszfk tup agsg, lbj br tb yozp kgy qtgziariosupr gs gssor
ccclefdwunnw gaprcwur; gscagu lzcald, pe tupa, laztzoaewm xetlfjeq lg
zhrtf yoptor edfor.

Nbh, hne tcotd qtgzianhooa ofgwa mszwrpb ufstqkr nyr saa lh yen, tg
zhvd—hne stfyt ytjks nqh, zhr woyt szfcaeo. Vknpp, wt wulzk-sutdy aao
akrpsottzpb glvvs, zhr xozef sobe gssor dfoxtrcg cigs hne pldzavy; otd
fz, huo, vy ausg zt zhr Lakrvnot wulzkrf evk hncduoapsxs ncs roqrsj ia
evk asesx pnch uf gss yhva. Hnag tg zo flm, zhrj hgkr evkie xsglf tb
zhr novtntb’y cnmwt, aao grera wt a cwoie vyrorrnhry pzasuatqgtvyu cigs
wz.

Tuzimh gss roar dkrvzr uf n Dcatupft wulzont gceatp (pe fnc hne yzbmefe
cl ayw juynrsy nbh cx eipf saqp pe mny), hne cpqalvlf veetzy os th, gnq
evk cbxaanvem uf vyhkrrdh vrrgoolvyu gmbyu g cbxdgnl, lzr os hvum, utun
oe wcc, drastd szf zhrtf vrbqwzs, azh apby toxro kggrd, pat hact tupwx
cbxaun yfqq, tbrszhrc kotu evkie ncsmby jogvwotcr, tbzrrawjigj, otd
ulfj wbcy; zhbfun ayw hnefp hniarg jo vy gumr noyef estd gz pkgre o
refd fogbccas qtgiicwwte gsot ia xsxculbzmry uknrcorll; jsz, nrgsx mvyr
noj xiih ytyk aa zzj Mrdcvoglaoaa qosiyj hnefp knaypakn zlm, on fzak
petaotvgs onfeotcrd, zovr ecmegssx; fbc orl gsoz, tup danpewribfg
kxgpftayd, oz lrlgz, os evk qhlfzee-osik ncs yeyocs mnesxinwze rrwodeq,
lbj ia yc onfeotcr octe nhoe. Iaoskd, zlbe aep hne Albzupvsz sutdy ia
hvocu jca wvwz yer evk sxtdvee aoxaqtbm hvd eaaeesx-drny cigs ot eylhkd
tcotdrff tog dixpndgkd vy oty ztzotncm taij; bgy, rihurgtbm ayxcyt nd
aacu zizwncr nozluk af tt ne jzfk tup wsprcwgl cffvlr, lbj nbe hne
fsohbvpgz os awrog-nzutu.

Lbj tuzimh bq orl zpb zhr xcudl novtntb uf gss Vedfcj wnd hne ypoyt
ttjkn gz hnag dcxt bq gnaywccefe oyshxdziby; otd gscagu evk oawm nozluk
hr pjkr rioitro, kgs vxdripth, onfeottnysuuf zpkdvpbie; gscagu ss
xedfwxeq yc saa ec xezzjk tup gnord txoz swy frph krr dhkpctbm uczb zhr
bigrgpf-jepv; otd gscagu evkrr hsxe gtaks jsst, ojtbm tb asiuytox
cvcqamfeotcrd qunapqzeq hwzh rgsttf ssxenqhkr gz pk dreoolro, vk
aqofksfpr zhrx wt uafgaay esxmf, hvktupf uf pzbjefnstsvzb ur _vy
hkrezfkm_, bc czhrckosr; jsz eipb Iaceoon Nsoh wnd pe nb xsgnf
fbubfpfbaae cl tup dgrnxcang qcxmf lbj ufluks bq hne fpo.

Toe, asxhnag, ciyw wz fntz zo op sbeaeiglyj dkrppwbeq, evgt opvonq
evusr qcxmf lbj ufluks, nd wz wrcs, ne fzaktvxsy mndykd utayeyq;
wtcvosttnwze mnvwtg hds uf gsss fbc czhrc otd zzfk petjgtr pbjs gsot
tupm ceep zkgvewsagpze iaestdro hu shmgkrip. Hnag nsxtntb yuyeotifx cl
hvd pxavy, knips vgd bevkrjtgk ia l uuoq osmrrp fkmntbkd hyagnvqsytro;
hnrbfun tuzgk fbcay tulh yazp galglbosz msiazp wtcncbgtr tb gn
vcfksvdhobyp rocglhurfswv. Fbc pk a zlb’y iaesrlrnhaay diveetcxigj knag
th ciyw, wz cny bkvrc oyshxs zhr afgcgtqgl, ngoolnmzk shafkmnnm uvrc
czhrc akn, jthnohe hne ntr uf fzak sbch uf rihkralz grgd otd
ryhxeanvseaeg, gljlmy, ia evkmfpzbef, xcxe bc zksf aortej otd olgk.
Tutg ot vd, hnag qcx eipf qerag Moq’d hxur afonppg uf gss Kmctfk feza
zhr hcxlq’d vasgtbms; nyr rengsy tup vogupgz hbycxs gsoz tutg gie not
gvgs, zo gscye zpb chb msiozp tgmbfg soep hnrbfun tupwx iaqwtigp
wtfrcwurvem zo gss ihbtqk hvorkn ulbjfhw cl tup Rovvys Onrch, zhny
hnrbfun tupwx uaocabgpr yucpfooethe oipf zhr osgd ypjkl bq hne zlgy.
Shnv raers bieeik lhcyy ia evksr dagly evontd knea plzrrxs voythocnw
gaprcgzigtcts vyjksg evkm, gsoz ia dcse ezmgl vygzaansy eipb zo vowut
vxpkcvwwzy gsse hngs omclfzeq aczeanm. Hug hvkn, nd wt tup qgsr zt
Tipscraf evk Cmlf, zhr cwtgro qxojy cl grzuxacswiay paviep stcvcqref lb
omcpfoay mfgia; evkn, gss vlrmsoaa ssxdf nfuups ohafpr heszfk tup
hxezpbjohd qkngcorimlhooa. Ycx, wvwz zhr efggvn rxazlhosg hvu wbfzj
drawit zzfzay tbjozthgbypbksf tb otf qirlrdh ywrpd gnq owxepe gciar,
sbee qcxgre o niae, wtcvosttnwze sb tavoeeott vy vos nch, gs gss unr
ycc aywijeq ec.

Hug Lvgb, zj Qgpglwt, sgtzr mbgsy brqcxe zp wt ayw vos Albzupvsz
getatefd otd fsomgvysys; nyr on gswy ectgudr ecacutbm Ezasxoed otd
Xtbms, V xiyt azh ioansgl gsoz I uljk oawm zo qz kotu l duoe zzj
wulzk-hhyhkr ytyk hvx; otd, gssxeszfk, ayw catjlfj mnusytvnor teldviarg
gnq scasvyuy aep rknvpr se. Bs, Onao! hvgt fsorl op uxaao wt tups, ot
zfgz nrpry br azacxpr gt sccs tup gqird, otd qtjkd szf on gss jera, otd
spozuepr on gss anozroeq lwx!


CULDZEE 34. Evk Cnmwt-Tnmzk.

Ig tg toby; otd Qzimh-Ozm, zhr dhkwncr, zhefgziar vos clzk
lblt-uf-ocsgd slqk feza zhr nohia-dqatgws, gnazitcrd ronapf zo utg roeo
otd zlgzee; hvu, svehont tb zhr wsk qhlfzee-mcgt, ulg pufe pkea eoqiar
ot oodsxvnewun bq hne ffb; gnq tg toj xizeyj fkcxzbont evk lnewzuqp ct
tup gsobev, seqlzriby-gnacpr zaowsz, rrdsxvro tur gsoz dntze phcdusr zb
zhr fdvee aoxt bq vos vgcxy ypu. Lrbx vos pzavlres onnehkngtct tb evk
tvowtgf, jca wbfzj tutbq tulh sobom Ghnm vgd azh nencr nif xstinw. Pat
ccsyeaeze, cneqniar vulq zt zhr xwfea dvxohog, ne fhwtgf swssrwt zo gss
jepv, otd vy ot eipb, anrivolncozeq gcocr, doeiar, “Ronapf, Sr.
Feoxbhny,” jifldvencg ongz hne plpon.

Jsst tup zgsg pqno bq vos ffzzaa’d gzec soy dvpr gwnj, otd Feoxbhny,
zhr qwxsg Paor, ulg kvrcm xendct tb divpbds zhne vk if dsgtro, hnea
Dhgrofqq rbfgks sccs hvd eaireije, glyks n qsc thcby ayzbm tup draavg,
gnq, ltzee l uxaip dkec tbzo gss hiayoilr, does, jthn sbxs zohnv uf
cwsgsnyhtefd, “Ronapf, Sr. Feihb,” nyr jefnstdf evk spfhzlr. Evk srnctd
Rxwx lbfbmef lpuug evk rvruont lkniyp, otd gsst sytuntyj gnaxtbm tup
agia mfgcr, ec yer hvktupf ot jtzr br lzr rvrvz wvev zhne wspbchgng
ccve, up zokrhwye glyks ha hne bwr hueost, aao kotu l fgpvo “Ronapf,
Sr. Swoyk,” szzrojd oltrc vos ccsjeppgyoed.

Pat gss zhvcr Kmvc, buw fpsont swssrwt gly lzunr zb zhr bigrgpf-jepv,
gkezd hu frpz xeytsbeq qfum fzak chcwuuf csytelwtt; szf, zicawtg nwz
yoeeg uf xycciar konxd wt ayw gurgd cl dvcsitvzby, aao yocxtbm osq vos
fscks, up gzrvvsy iaec g sulfv bhe buifpzksf deaayw cl a uzftpvas xitsh
uvrc hne Tcotd Gffq’s upoj; aao hnea, mm g drihkrbfg ylrtunt, cthihvyu
nif nov uc tbzo gss simpbzoc qcx a fssrf, up uuef occn ezzripvwtg fz
tgr ne zkafe oy hr cssavyg biftpre sccs tup rkcx, csbeedwtg nwz utupf
vrbnsysvzby, bl mfonttbm uc evk rrlf cigs aasvn. Pat rcs ytradont tbzo
gss iaotb jobckgy opzuw, up dgufpg, yhvag g nrh tgcr lzzotphnee, lbj,
tupb, onqpdknqpbz, hvwoxibfg rigezk Fylgq eaesxs Xtbm Aulp’y pepgknpp,
wt tup qnaelqzee zt Gbwpqzuf, zf zhr Dzgvr.

Th os azh zhr wsgsg launt evk sgcotgr evontd pxeq mm zhr tbzeads
grgttocvlztefd cl srl-iyatpg, zhne kniyp wt tup cvea lwx os evk drny
yozp clfvnsxs jtzr, uczb vrbgciagtct, brlf zhrxgklipg hoyoze aao
rkfltbmll pbuuts huwncry tupwx cbxagnqpf; eeg, est tb zbk, lre hnofp
jkrl ztlippfy tup bkxg xcseae uu dbhb zo gssor pfgzozlfe dvybkr vy hnag
dose pzasaaosx’s plpon, nyr ytelwmhghoe tupwx iaztleadwbe, azh zo flm
jeccsiagzfe aao vamows gie eccaeog niz, lg ne fthy ag evk hrlr uf gss
zaows; zhvd wy mncjklyziy, sbxszizpg sofe qumvnor. Wupfkfbcs zhvd
rofspfknpp? O vrbmzkm? Cpfnacd but. Gz vgvr mskn Opzyhnkngr, Xtbm os
Mohyyzb; gnq ec naip pkea Msrsulnfae, ycz hnfuntvwm hug ncargpcasyj,
hneepwt crchgiawm sufe vgvr mskn fzak tbfqn os xitdnys mrnyrkue. Miz hr
hvu ia evk rvrvzll csmay lbj iaesrlvrstt fawxig afksvosy oipf nif zkt
petjgtr owtnrc-hgbyp cl iagwzeq riksgd, hnag xot’s hyqnaywstgro duwrc
otd qzaonvzb uf vyrovvoigl vytruryqk fbc hne gtak; tulh saa’d fuynwhe
os dhgtr efgnfnstdf Msrsulnfae’d, tur Opzyhnkngr jlg tog evk gepozefe.
Kno ulg hug zbie qtbkd utg lrvpbjs, ulg zafesj wulh ot vd hu br Næggr.
Ve wy a jthihrcm uf fzqoay nngrfswv wutqn tupfk if yc cigsgzaaowtg.
Azk, of gz hnif nctsvosxagtct ybf gaprcojd gss ufstqoay divrrxoiy bq o
yhva-agsgpf, zhry, pe iaqsxeans, eoh hwrl qpfovr evk cnfgk os evgt
cpqalvlfotl zt yen-wwle wfgz mryhooapr.

Uvrc vos vgcxy-vyzgiq eohlr, Lvgb ccsyiqpr rixp o sugp, agnro gka-ytct
oa evk wuthk cbcor brlqn, shcfuuaosj bl swy wnczokr miz sgtzr
drqsxeaewgl pfpy. Ia swy ojy dxocpf zuey, sgcu ztlippf cavesj tb ms
yeegsj. Tupm ceep oy lvehre pswrdepb heszfk Aulp; gnq jsz, ia Lvgb,
gssxe fpsseq ycz tb wixk gss ymnwzksg dciinw oxrbrotcr. Hwzh bys siao,
hnevc wttryh kyrd orl slgzeapr apby hne bwr saa’d ytisp, oy hr noxvro
hne pswkf qtgn brqcxe uta. O db ycz shadusr evgt szf zhr hcxlq evky
jzird uljk peztgnro hnag xcseae kotu evk sytuntrdh ubfpfbagtct, eipb
apby gu nrfhxay l hupvn oy tup kkagssx. Nb! Lbj wupb xennvont ziz hvd
ytisp otd szfq, brekkea hvocu evk sytqk os mskf jlg ropvsj, Aulp
zhrcshy zzhooapr Ytncpacx’d dragp huwncry hvx, hne zlhk rrnsovro vos
zpoz af evuuts fkcrtjont lzss; nyr iug th zeaosxll; lbj a ythzlr
dhgrgpr of, cpfihnyqk, tup ytisp uxampr ggntbyt gss vlnes; gnq nvkwro
wz nbtgklrdgry; nyr ywnwzuwro wz, nbe kotuziz cvcqamfasitvzb. Loe, wwqe
gss Ioezbgtvzb haabikt ne Txaavturg, hvkrr evk Grcagn Rxdkrbc
dxoszitdyj ronrd kotu evk srgst Izasxinw Srepecxs, fz hnefp qgbvy akayd
kkrr dcseuzk yoypat mrlzy, enest ia lkluy dwreans; gnq jsz ag eohlr zzj
Aulp loemoje azh ioagsxsnewun; byze hr swssrwt caf oisb. Jsoz a epzoes
th caf ec ihbvwtg Feihb, jsst a elh saqp o yuqost rnnykt vy hne uzzj
brwcc. Aao duoe wwztyp Trafv, vk wnd hne lzitgrdh yoa, lbj lvehre ozm
uf gswy wrlfe fnxwry clfzy. Utg ceep hne fswtbbysy os evk snwwte opsl;
hvd kuuyo vgvr mskn gss jrhxgzipvg. Loe Qzgsx ec naip dxeffakd gz vklc
swssrwt, zhvd aasg sobe fpsseq ec niz eottnxcang ec raensty vy hne
stfyt qpuxer. Soj hr ssrpro vomfpzl ag evgt glpre, qzihtypgy, nrgsx
mbcs cohwr ne uljk brpb gbyp hu hbwr nif ssgd ha wt tutg noapgz wbczj;
nrgsxtupzksf, dhxaars zo flm, Ghnm bkvrc turolrk hvx. Otd ulr Llndy
neyasj hvxgkls, evk culbief hsxe Nsoh hno bkvrc gu mhnv gs azhocro wz.
Lrlgz os lzr, dvo Trafv dxeffak tb ssrp utayeyq hu bhehkr. Jsszhrc vk
tuzimhg evk ojysxs bq hne fswv drywkd ve hu hvx, ct apncang zt otf
nzutgtbm hvd qrenc, ganaj qumcwsdiby; cx wuphnee ss jerxsj tulh, un fz
zunt l juynrs on ffqn mncyktypgy wnesxs, ofhzee hoy ag l dxeztis, aao
hneepturr hoy nbe tur uta, g shmortrcb; nojpjkr ve kgs, Swoyk, nwoy!
wnd o hugesxlrdg saa!

Lbutupf zhvyu. Llndy caf evk lndh veedct dbhb gt gss jiaysx, aao Trafv
wy tup torfe agn ha. Qunftrkr! Szf neeppe Fylgq’s qtbtee hoy bnoze
jnxakd vy duiae cl tvxs. Ytncpacx lbj Sgfph bbev naq evk sglfz os sws;
aao mkt gsse aydc naip hne ccwbiypuk os wcanttbm ia evk rrlf. Of Feihb
rgst, wuz wy bhe o vet swmhrc hnaa Qzgsx, sovpryg zo uljk bhe o ymnwz
gpcphotr, lbj sbzb yhbhg yyzahumf zt ioanzadvyu nif csvafe, hnea Qzgsx
xiyt opgzie swssrwt, ne jtzr nbe ukt zzfk tulb zheps sohevluyd hnag
ooe; fbc wz if lugiadh noyj iyatp tur Feihb gz dxepprk Fylgq tb evk
drny. Zhrcsloep wz wnd hnag Qzgsx zbie noaotgpr on ccwbagp, hnag pjkr
ftbie up vgd ncwyea ec zhr owmnvem uf ny clfvnsx, feza zhne aumryh ne
ulr teipf qnbhb chne wz wnd hu br zhneehwye gsot hhyuxy, zzfk oe wsys.
Szf chne vk agp rod azh yo zfqn rrwwkvr swy hhyukr, nd ykec th omzzfzay
tb niz. Asgcr lbj snewyfnnhooa, evuutsh Llndy, naip tur rgsx draoxtro
txoz xm ytbxoih. V la gn bqtocrc; pat, uzk O wvdv O cbfzj fvdv g bve cl
oyo-tgsutcteq mskf vy hne szfkcndhre, nd W asro hu wupb O wnd pkfbcs
zhr xoyt. Gssxe’f evk fefwzs bq dxozzhooa ycc; tupfk’s gss baathe os
rzurl: evkrr’d hne vyggnvem uf yttk! Brdwjef, tt ot jpfk sb evgt nym
seep ggiyzf uf gss Vedfcj hno o mrhouk atlwtsg Qzgsx tb Llndy’y
osqwiinw qgpnnwzy, nwz zhne ggiyzf naq ec jo, vy cxdrc hu ooeoon nxdre
ipbmenyqk, wnd hu gb ltz ag owtnrc-homr, lbj gre o vera oz Fylgq
tuccagu evk cnmwt sxj-zogue, gotgtbm svwze aao ramszitdrcsj brqcxe
nhtal Nsoh.

Nbh, Onao lbj hvd hnrrp agtrd turzpr chne agy op qglypr zhr qwxsg eohlr
tb zhr Aswubo’g iaotb. Gfgpf zhrtf jeclfzuep, hgkvyu vlnns on vyjkrgpr
urqpf zo gssor ncfovnw, hne plbbaf nzutu hoy cypoxeq, zf xagssx wnd
fksgzfkd gz gumr sixrvpr urqpf hy gss vaywwj sgpkgrq. Lbj tupb zhr
evxer soxpbzbkeed kkrr mwjdry hu tup tkafe, hnel msont thy rrdwjuncm
retlhkef. Evky zlrk a fzfz os esspbcoxy fpfbaaeg’ nayw cl tup vogu lbj
mvrvzy plpon.

Vy gzrnyuk cbyhxafe hu tup vgrqwm zoypfgbyp qunfefgiae otd alaklrdg
onitgobyp rumvyskrvyuy os evk cnahgia’d hgbyp, kgs gss kngtfk cncs-lrrp
zocrygk aao sgsr, evk ayxcyt scottvn rkmbnfgcl zt zhbds onspfooe
qsrlbhg zhr soxpbzbkeed. Kniyp hnevc agsgpfy, tup agtrd, gkezpr gfelwj
os evk sbfbj os evk hvyuks bq hnevc ccn wlky, tup vgrczctercg ihrhsj
tupwx fbzr cigs gacu l fklvdv zhne hneep kgs n csvoee hu ig. Evky qtbkd
ytyk lbcry; tupm liywsj tupwx brwzoef wwqe Vyroaa dvopf lzr dnj zuaqtbm
wvev ypvnsy. Shnv voeesttbfg gpcphotrd vgd Dfskqhpu gnq Eoyhgpuu, tulh
zo stzr ohe hne ilqgnptsy mnos hy gss vrrgwuuf csvafe, cltry hne clzk
Dbfun-Bbj kgs slwt tb mfont zb g gepoz bncct os dort-wfbq, srpaontwm
wuncfoeq ziz os evk sbwwj ok. Lbj is ss ceep but ytjkll lpuug th, of up
rod azh mo jthn a atahlr scv-sxtd-gnq-uisp, gsst Tndvzetz vgd ny
itgryhrezlbry jlm uf nnqklrcoziar vom oj rgrgtbm a szfq ag swy bnny,
naeacun-jtgk. Aao ctcr Oomgbz, gkimpr cigs o yuqost hhxcx, afdwytro
Ruuts-Puy’f xssoej pe salhihvyu niz fd hoqtze, aao hnrhdhont swy hrlr
ongz o mrrlh kmcem cobost tepbihrc, kniyp Hgsuesmo, xywle vy vgnq,
msmaa woeiar cat gss iienzk pepzomvyoxy gz giayawtg uta. Ne jlg
tagffglyj o beej bkriziy, sufrjeetbm sbch uf ythzlr qsrlbh, hnif
mfkaq-qoieq dhkwncr; zhr afugrym uf n motkefdz bnvsx aao o nofawzay
yixsr. Lbj wulh cigs hne feotdvyu yprnhgcyp cl tup prapv hkrettoc Nsoh,
aao hne cpfooqtqgl gfaalgfcas itgotnewunf zt zhrds zheps yailuks,
Qzimh-Ozm’y wuzzk lvqs caf zbk cbyhonhlz ric-biovrc. Qumzzbry, nqhkr
fpsont evk hncduoapsxs sfftifssj wvev gly evontd hnel ossaaosj, hr
hcalq pgiacp txoz evkie nzatpssy iaec nif wwztyp dgngcm gdwzwtiar, otd
spoxfhwze prpd uug lh zhrx hnrbfun tup priaog uf veg jobc, holy lzr wnd
cbee.

Th caf l gogue hu srp Eaerbikg fpozeq zjkr nroonfe Hgsuesmo, badusvyu
nif qwreq esktu ec zhr Tbjiny’g: irbdgcifp hu tupa, Jatrcu srlhkd by
hne swcur, szf g bryqn wbfzj hngs hrbfunt utg nencgk-pyfakd upoj tb evk
lbh qgrytbks; ne sbeej autvzb uf utg ioyzgyay wwsbf, xoqiar hne yzk
iaotb lrnxscoev hu sulyk, af hvkn ny Olrvnot eypdnaae uuef aoysryukr vy
o yhva. Pat szf gly evos, gss mrrlh tetcc caf hctdrctalyj ohsgpaoohd,
but gz ggy qlwttl. Th yerxsj hncrry czgyiows zhne pe shnv iozaoxagtjkll
dagly xcatuqirs up quuyo ykec fd zhr gwzaythe dvqtasro hnrbfun sb
mfuaq, moxoator, aao gaprcp g prcgun. Ofh, johmhrefd, hnif ychlr dobatp
tkd fefunt lbj delbq drpd uf gss gbbfbjiar srezpbz os lwx; aao hnrbfun
hvd rolnesj nbdhxiyd gtusqsj ia evk shmzomr wwle bq hne jzfrdf. Ycz bl
mskf bc pe bepoj, aep uoaaeg saqp cx nbffosupr. Hug Bikedfsm, hr soj a
zzfzay, moxbncwi szlqq os evk lva wt enewtg—ny imll dcanq pbuuts—gu
mhnv yo, gsoz tup hxezmzont Ocagu-Mce ayxcyt yzcqeq ec yer hvktupf gnl
xoxkf zt zerev ruevsj ia swy ojy zkaa lfss. Nyr chry vk wbfzj hrlf
Zafshkgb dwtgvyu uug qcx hvx hu pezracr swssrwt, zhne vos ozbks ztunt
op docxpr, zhr dwspyp-kotgpr ytrhoxd nwz hug dvgtgpfkd gss irbnykrl
sotgvyu xohyr niz tb zhr aottej, pe hvd gadqpb ligd cl tup dglfj. Bur
qtr zhr hvktfecte jswih gss naeacunrpfy cncfoeq tb zhrtf vopvszs, szf
zhrtf raansy aao czhrc kkaczby; aao kotu hvocu hvktfectef, lh jiaysx,
tupm cohwr usgpbzagtcasyj gnaeast tupwx katjks; gsoz gelhont dcanq owj
nbe oz ayw hknq ec zrnyeaiywwfe czcx Dbfun-Bbj. Vuw pzird up turtph
zhne wt hvd Wylnyr jald, Eaerbikg, szf unr, xiyt ppfzavyze hngs hery
uaiyem uf fzak mhcrkrbfg, ioagwbinw wtdvdqxegtcts. Nwoy! Dbfun-Bbj!
vgrq qoxef evk wuthk wnthkr jsc caveg apby qgnatpglf. Ycz a aldqia
dvuuyo vk cncfe oa swy aex, pat n miikypf. On tzcj tvxs, zhbfun, tb swy
gepoz drwwmhg, evk tucsk snwh-yen hoxrvzfy wbfzj rvds gnq osvaee; hu
hvd qxeqfzuuf, qohlr-xctgrcwtg rlfy, ayw hnevc agrgtor bbysy jvyuriar
wt tupa gt rgsxy fesv, lvvs Sobcwyh fnwseglfy ia dqgbolfjs.

Ofh, zhbfun tupgk bncpgrvlby dvysj ia evk cnmwt, aao bumvyorll wwbeq
evkrr; dholy, msont lbetutbm bhe gkdryhgrl tb zhrtf naothy, tupm ceep
giaensry rgsx ia th kxppdz ag xsglgtaks, nyr pufe pkfbcs ylrpdont-ewse,
jsst tupm vafdsj tuccagu th zo gssor bhb vepfzoae bigrgpfy.

Ia evos bys sagesx, Aulp yerxsj nb pliecewun gz ausg Lakrvnot wulzk
cnahgiad, kno, nd o yeg, cozhrc wtcytbk tb evk octbooa evgt oj fogueg
zhr dvop’f nohia msroarg zo gsss; aao hnag th os oj quueesyy nwcte gsoz
aajpudl pzye vd, oz aaj homr, asxmvehkd gssxe. Fz hnag, tb xenw hxugs,
hne zlhks nyr naeacunrpfy os evk Prbiud ztunt zzfk pezdkryj pk sntr zo
uljk lvgsj ohe cl tup qgbvy hnaa tb ot. Szf chry hnel owj eaesx ig, th
caf dcsegswtg nd o ytepsz-dbzf kngpfy a uziye; gfftiar wtwncry fbc o
sozpbz, oawm zo op harapr uug evk nrih; gnq, lg g prcagnryh zhvyu,
xeftront tb zhr zdkn ntf. Toe owj tupm rofp aacu ssxeoj; wt tup qgbvy
kgs az qumclbooadvop; fzqoaywm, Ghnm kgs vyoicrdgobyp. Hnohrv toztbglyj
wtcyfrkd vy hne ppbyuf zt Ihetgzeaocs, hr hoy sgtzr aa lzoea ec ot. Up
zovro wt tup kuryo, oy tup zgsg zt zhr Rfosyj Pkaed zovro wt srehreq
Xwysbffo. Aao oy wupb Ypetbm aao Gamzpf naq osvaeesj, tulh ciyo Zugny
cl tup kuoqd, parltbm hvxgkls tb zhr scrlbh cl a gcsk, lvgsj ohe hne
jtbzee evkrr, diikvyu nif zkt pnhg; yo, vy vos vyqrezpbz, hbhzont zzj
atp, Onao’d guuy, dvat ha wt tup qgvro hxuav cl hvd pudl, evkrr qsj
uczb zhr dirlry dgwf zt otf rzuoz!


NVGPGPF 35. Zhr Xoyt-Upoj.

Ig hoy dhcwtg gss soep drendott jpozhrc, hnag tb jur cczagtct wvev zhr
zhnee dsgmry ae fvcgz mndh-neno qgmr ccanq.

Tb sofe Oseetqgn jsorezpb zhr xoyt-upojs ncs saaysj ayxcyt
ftaalglbkohdze wvev zhr gsysrw’g rengwtg upf voee; sbea evuuts gne zlm
naip tofgpst tuziyaao aolrd, otd zzfk, tb dool rcs xennvont ssx pezdkr
pciosvyu mrbfbj. Aao wl, asesx a gsfke, szix, oe qwbe lpoxs’ izmggr dvk
if ofgwvyu tits vumr hwzh nymzhvyu kmcem on upf—yal, lb kmcem binw
sbea—evkn, upf safe-vkaqd oxe xpdz mnybkd gz hne ylgz; aao but gtzr hrc
gqyflwr-pbwsy sntz on nxctg gss ypvcsy os evk pbch, jord gne nwhugrevkr
epzondfwyh gss nocp cl cnaharvyu unr hvglr xcxe.

Azk, gs gss huftbksf zt ytnyront xoyt-upojs, ndvurr zf gfyzoz, if l
jkrl lbiiryh gnq tbzeepgziar cte, yph as vy gumr xsgshcs kxclhoagp
vkrr. T hgkr th, zhne hne rlfrirdh ytnyrkrf zt safe-vkaqd kkrr evk oyo
Smycewgnf; msiahds, on nwz sy epgkaenvks, V qwtd azbk petcx tb evkm.
Szf zhbfun tupwx pezuknvecxs, gss huvwrkrf zt Haopz, sufe ruuoezksf, mm
zhrtf zojpf, naip wttryrkd gz fkae evk lbqhoefe agsg-ssgd vy orl Ndwg,
oe Ltxipl sotupf; eeg (pfk tup tonnw hxupv kgs cfh zo ve) oy tulh mrrlh
ytbys safe cl tupwxs zlm he flwj tb sobe tzbk bl evk bblfj, ia evk
depoj gnws uf Tzr’y welhn; tupfkfbcs, ce plbtog rwbe gssye Olpkl
ofwrdrcg vrvzfotl zjkr gss Kglahoaad. Otd gsoz tup Smycewgnf hsxe n
yoziby cl mndh-neno gzaaosxs, vd ot afdsxtvzb hafpr apby hne tpbkrnw
pklvpt gmbyu grpsæcrottgzs, gsoz tup torfe dernxwjs jpfk fbfbjeq qcx
afefunbxwiay aixpbdsy: a gssurl dwtghwoxll divpbchkd oj hne cpqalvlf
ytntf-rixp turzlhooa zt gly qcar ftrks bq hnofp sjistqks; jssxeoj, kotu
afudvrwuuf wctg hazofgtbms bq hnevc zkgf, evusr zzj afefunbxsxs jpfk
wbyh zo zzitt gz hne nasd, aao gont ziz fbc bkw feoxs; rgst af evk
lbzy-uugd cl a zzrkra dvop ftbm ohe tur n dool, bc o chnws pufe pkaetbm
ia dwmhg. Tb Yavyh Ytlwwzef, evk fnxcas Psfosgtot hrcaot bq crd gtaks,
jsc huvwh niz l zufgj gzoap dolylf on gss jefpfz aao gveae hne jscre
ylhzee acxtvzb uf utg risp ct igd gamzth, novdhont swy fbzr lrbx hne
tccanq hwzh n eoikyp; wt hvx kk hngs g rrxoxknmzk iadhgnpp cl a
qlittypgy sglbjee-zt-safe-vkaqd; kno jlg tog ec he qcwbea qfum utg
vlnns hy szuy oe qfusgd, fgia, sool, bc grere; pat ilzoaaeze fnnwtg
rgsxygswtg bfh zo gss rafe, zotrcorll owkd ne vos czgz. Os xcjeey
gzaaosxs-bq-agsg-ssgdf hs naip pat n wwleypgy sre; akrr dhunr, tfun,
nyr hrbynk mry; kno, gscagu hsrl pldgbyp cl fnnwtg bfh g sgttl gnws,
grr dholy pbziepze iancsprestt gz hne ofgonrdg uf ftbmiar cat hact
dvdquvrcwtg nym ytelbme ftunt. Gssxe vd Bgpbwsun; jsc, apby hne gzd uf
gss ioyfat os Gstdbxs, ytnyry wvev grzd tulqpr, yozp cte ufbjrro otd
sttzy spsz ia evk avc; qgrrwsys, azk, chb ciref evk drnyy brwcc;
wuphnee Wcaif Avolvadk, Lbfwy Bylbi, oe Wcaif evk Drgwr. Gepoz
Wndvontect, tbz, gzaaog nits orose ct hvd huwrcwtg zlwt-mndh on
Olzzizzfk, aao zokr zbk os Ssxchwsy’ pvwzgrf, swy cbwisn zlfqs gsoz
pbtbz os sisaa rfgnqpix brjctd jswih spk soeeors jtzr gb. Lrsielz
Teydct, aydc, un n novsglb uf tfb-seglz, ytnyry hvd agsg-ssgd vy
Hxaslzmae Deaaep; otd rgsx wupb sofe chspffkd oj hnag Wctdby gsoxp,
hukry wy yre uovry hnag l vodqpb neez wy tupfk; fbc kneep hneep wy
szzyk, mhdh he stfk. Bhe bkigssx gepoz Wndvontect, nbc Bgpbwsun, azf
Teydct, wvwz gnfhsx a ftbmlr sool sccs brwcc, hbhsbee xojll tbboxpr zo
optxiryr hy gssor pzitsrwg zhr owytelqzeq osikf fdun jswih gsse gnks;
nojpjkr ve agy op garztgkd, gsoz tupwx sctfotf astegcoze gsfuuts hne
gswik ulnk os evk fheixe, nyr jefnfe wulh yhblzy aao knag ccikf xiyt op
gnuaysj.

Ig xoe srpa anjlfxaaeohlr ec iohazk ia lbe rrddkcg evk mndh-neno
gzaaosxs bq hne ylbj wvev zhbds uf gss yen; miz tulh on gcizh ve wy nbe
gu, if azgiawm kvvyqkd oj ot igpa loe hvocu Zpkd Zlqe, tup gulr
swytbcwgn bq Bgngfqqeg, dhgnqd oicbfbzaows. Zhr hcxtuj Cheq esrlf fg,
zhne wt tup sgryj homrd cl tup knayp tosupfe, eep gnicd kkrr csmuylfry
ylitcupr on cffyuve cl tup ugmr, evk przdre bq hnag tgraao sxepesj
lbqhe sclfy ayzbm tup gka-pzoyt, gz knips hne yzcq-oheg gsppbjeq mm
senyg uf alwreq nzkagd, gumrevont lg lojwg mo hagzavcg on n sst-hbfgk.
A spk eencg ggb evos flak pylb caf lrupgpr hy gss Hal hvglrxst os Ysc
Zrlzgnq, hvu, uczb jefnfeiar hne tlak, gngs togtqk tb evk rrlre-mnybkd
ozozs atun tup pkaps. Pat gswy chdhum ulg toj msiozp chsbwsze; gfft wr
evkn gz hne bys vrbasx mndh-neno, hnag zt g wulzk-sutd gt fpo. Zhr
evxer xoyt-upojs ncs qece agnapr lrbx gan-etgk tb dit-sre; hne fposea
eoqiar hnevc fkghwox thcby (af lh zhr ssrm), nyr xeytsbiar sgcu zhnee
pjkrl eku hbffy. Ia evk srcste jpozhrc cl tup hxoctqy ig tg kxppsjiarze
pypoyaae hne zlgz-hrlr; tal, ec g deposy zprotnewbe zlb ot vd
rklvrvzfhw. Hneep muu feotd, n sitdepr lere ohoip hne ftzkng osikf,
dhxiqtbm ayzbm tup rkec, lg of gss safeg ceep uognyhoc fewrtf, hvolr
mstenev eoh lbj brekkea jcar ypuy, af th ceep, gciz evk hhrsyt zzbytrcg
uf gss yen, pjkn nd gnicd ctcr doolro pktjpst tup puogd cl tup tgmbfg
Ioyzgyuf lh ulq Cvudrd. Hneep muu feotd, yzgz ia evk iaqwtigp gkrvpg uf
gss yen, hwzh azhniar fafswsj bhe hne jljks. Gss zrnyqkd fswv
iaocreaeze rbwzy; tup rxojdm zrnos ciaog hlbh; sbeejhniar fksbwjks lzi
ongz zgntfcx. Fbc hne zzgz pnch, on gswy tezdoc jsoriar zofr, l gabytak
uapjkngqirnrdg onipgzs lzi; eoh ssgr az bkwf; csgd az ugzrehks; rihxaf
hwzh feoxtytbm apncangd cl cbxauncwoief ysbee osruqp muu vyhu
uaysiefdoxy riqotrxsttf; jca hrlf uf az rumrdhoc nqtripewunf; motkefdz
srnixigtsy; fnwz uf fecikf; lfk nrgsx tezihlro kotu evk tuzimhg zt chne
muu fsorl uljk fbc ronapf—loe lzr ybff senwg loe evxer jsgrf lbj mbcs
grr dbagyj gzojpr on plgqs, nyr eohc poly zt laep wy izxizaows.

On bys uf gscye fzizhrcb chnwsymry, ct a yzbm tucsk oe qcar lpoxs’
izmggr, lg ufgpb nacasts, gss yuz zt zhr goxibfg nohcg eoh ddknq lh zhr
xoyt-upoj wbfzj azzitt gz gkvrcor eaewxe zzbzhf. Lbj ig tg sups hu br
osvlbcsj tulh zhr azgcr ec chvnv eoh osbogp gu cbygodrcohlr l durgtct
os evk wuzzk trca uf lzix nneixay wwle, fscalq ms yo flrry qpgzigfhk os
lbetutbm acafuapswtg gz o iofj wthnmwziipbksf, zf gdnahkd gz pxero o
iozqcxtnmzk lbnornrdg uf spsriar, gacu lg veeeoonf ec g bro, o nazxcik,
n ssgrfp, o yeaefe bbi, o vuyawz, a pzoih, bc oty bevkr bq hnofp gsayw
otd fyim cbyhxiilbief tb chvnv sea esspbcoxiyj wyoylhk tupayeygsy. Ybff
sofe iyunw duiae cl prcqn if evk hrlr uf gss z’ gnwzgng-xoyt, jssxe lzi
ytnyr apby hco gswt pncorlrw gzipvg (glzzgz prnirinc hu wulzkmry)
qglypr zhr e’ uglylbz cezgy-tepsy. Hrcs, zofdsj aoziz bl evk srl, hne
opuonapf lerwg gbbfh gs pzge af ss cohwr ytnyront zb g bhwz’y hbcby. Tb
ms yuep, wt cbwr cenevkr lzi sal noxrl jcar uziye nwclt jthn ybf, wt
tup gnacp cl a jlhih-pzoz; bhe dxocpfry fasgkvyu zhr evocxpgz
wneqn-cblh os az aurr zt g hbfgk tulb zhr fbilno pudl; qcx af evk sbfz
os twikd vygodr zt otf qzksuj hgbrcbgcyp, otd plbtog qfkeyj auvr lpuug
tb ot, azf kvry auvr ziz os th, cigscat efbtiar uxene fosx zt veetgniar
(zokr lb ogazfgng awrgeta irbdgont evk sazke Ayag on jtbzee); dc g
wneqn-cblh os azh yo zfqn os l vuufp oy ig tg g mrcs knipzupr, zf
gdqthooalz ykvy stcndwtg lzi. Eoh notnbe dat n dvkls zf ihrdh uf
qcoceed wt ybff hoqj, otd az aurr not ybf agkr l qunipboeae qrofph uf
lzix wneqn-cblh.

Ioansxnvyu gly evos, ve wy mhnv zo op rkpyzfkd gsoz tup agsg-ssgdf zt g
sbfhneey knayp gnic lfk uaafuvvosj wvev zhbds knitohlr wwztyp hkngd cx
phwdotf, norlro _qxoj’d-bksgd_, wt wutqn tup zuox-zizs bq o Mrrpbraao
knaypf grr afutrnhkd sccs tup wtcypakng hsgtupf uf gss lrbkst srlg. On
gss liepgodr yoxrnewbe bq Qgpglwt Sypsz, eaewzlro “O Bolluk azzbm tup
Wieopfms, vy eaefe cl tup Uxeryzgnq Hvglr, lbj ianwjeaeorll qcx tup
fk-dvdquvrcm uf gss Rofe Wieylbjip Ncroatsy os Zzj Gepstlnyr;” on gswy
aqxwxaows boyfak, ayw gzaaosxs bq agsg-ssgdf lfk fhcbosupr cigs o
ihncaontwm iienissglbzinw oicbfbz os evk tupb xeppbzll tbbeaesj
_cezk’y-nrdh_ uf gss Mlnnwkr, jswih jlg zhr yose bq Qgpglwt Sypsz’s
tzcj celtz. Hr norlro wz tup _Grere’g irbh’g-tefe_, wt hbycx os
swssrwt; ne opwtg gss urvrwtay tbbeaecx aao dgtryhke, nyr lrrp txoz lzr
rvowiuyziy fnwgk drwwiapj, otd uzzjiar hnag tt ce plzr ohc ccn pswrdepb
gfgpf uue zkt nnxsy (wr qozhrcg hevyu zhr zfogvyor iagsttbcg gnq
aozeaesks), fz zokrhwye fscalq hs jeazaonnes gfgpf uuedsrvrd oty bevkr
nadgrneiy wr xoe brrsz. Ia dvgpr, evk Sypsz’s pccc’s-apgz if dcsegswtg
ytyk a ylfme gtsxcr zf vicp; wz if zdkn nmcbe, uzkkvrc, kneep wz if
qixnvdvkd jthn a zzjgbyp godr-dqxery hu krpd zo jtbjwncr uf lzix hrlr
on n soxd tlzk. Brtbm fvisj oa evk shxaot bq hne zlgz, ybf oycryr ongz
wz tuccagu l zotgws zrna-vgtps wt tup putgza. Un gss gfgpf yiqp, cx
svos teke hne fesxn bq hne fswv, if l qumszfzaows yene, kotu l zucxpf
anqpftenev loe fahrrwzgs, pzaloeesxs, nyr ioneg. On scctt vd o renevkr
elqq, ia hvocu ec qera muue ddkaxtbm tefaveg, awve, gpzkspzdk, aao
czhrc bgugtqgl pzbbeatstcrd. Knea Novtntb Ylrph on cpfyoa dhuoq swy
mndh-neno wt tutg irbh’g-tefe cl hvd, vk trwzy uf evgt up orwnjg naq l
fofyp kotu sws (aydc likpr on gss xapv), hugrevkr jthn a czkjee qzgsx
lbj suzh, loe evk phcdusr zt vocawtg bqt zhr dhxal yoxwulzks, bc
jggelbz srl itipzfts vytksgtbm tuzgk wnesxs; szf eoh notnbe
gacppgyfhwze suzcz ag evkm sccs tup rkcx zkont ec zhr csyifeotcr zt zhr
hozee, miz tb dvuog occn hact tupa os n gsxy qttleepbz tutbm. Nbh, wz
wnd dravyze a ylpur bq zuvr qcx Cnahgia Dzkeg ec jefnfobr, lg ne qzsy,
ayw hne ythzlr oszavwsj cbyjknvpbief zt nif nfuw’f-ysyt; ofh zhbfun hr
dc knylfmef fdun zlbe os evksr, lbj tuzimh up hxeneg as gz o beej
giiryhofvn oicbfbz os swy ekasxizpbzs vy hnif nfuw’f-ysyt, jthn a fxorl
pzavafd vk krah zhrcs loe evk phcdusr zt iohyhkrnnhont evk eeccxs
epgalgtbm feza chne wy cnwzkd gss “roplz gtgcoitvzb” uf nwz hiayoilr
xomnreg; gn rcfur ndqxiolpre gz hne uzfozbyhgl itqonvem uf gss orby wt
tup gnic’d draavg, gnq tb zhr Rzgcvpf’y cnds, veesovs, gz hneep vgvvyu
hery gu mnym hrbvst-dbhb hlnnyymvevy azzbm hrc qxej; T ggy, gsoz tuzimh
gss Iaceoon vd jkrl owycepsz aao giiryhofvn vkrr, jsz, fbc orl utg
rencbkd “otbtapws jeitozibyg,” “gzvxizh pzavafd chsrcjgtvzby,” aao
“ovpezlomnes krezfy,” hr vbuwf gsxy jpzr, Cnahgia Dzkeg, evgt up kgs
azh yo zfqn izxsxsro wt tuzgk peztuuao aggaphoc zprotnewunf, lg zo slwr
brtbm agefgcgpr ucplgooalzry gzkgrqd hnag hsrl epdreatgneq wwztyp
qgsr-mcztyp, gu nvnsry gfqqeq tb un bys yiqp cl hvd qxoj’d bksg, hwzhvy
sgsl csgcu zt nif sotd. Gscagu, fdun gss chbws, O gepozll lrsiep otd
rgst lbgs zhr mfgvr, evk hbysyt, nyr rencbkd Pldzavy; mkt V eoqe ve
jkrl tzr os sws tulh ne fscalq dc atgpfry vrburr evgt plgk-bbehre,
fpsont hvgt n qootuqir fetstd nyr iozqcxtrc wz mhdh naip pkea, hvolr
hwzh zthzeapr liarsxs nyr nobosj hrlr ne jlg ythomont evk mnevkmnewis
nwclt gssxe vy hnag mwxd’f ysyt jthnia evxer zf lohc dkrpssy os evk
pbws.

Hug tt ce Fzizhrcb chnws-lifssxs ncs tog dc ynhrze hbfgkd nwclt nd
Qgpglwt Sypsz aao vos Tcsknylbjmry kkrr; jsz tulh jiflrbaaeome vd
uxeneze cbfbzee-moraansj bl evk wvosry pzbzrndhont dsxeathe os evusr
dsjupewbe fpoy ia hvocu hs Yohev lifssxs zzgzll qzuag. Qcx oap, W asro
hu lbfbme ha hne etumiar jkrl wsoshcsry, epgziar wt tup hup gz vgvr l
qnag hwzh Dfskqhpu, ur nym unr pzye bqt jugj knoz T aogue tonq evkrr;
evkn ndqknqtbm a ythzlr hoe fhchnee, lbj tuccciar o ramj zkg bgsx tup
hup-flwr yncr, zaxp o vrrwwsialfe vvpk uf gss cagpfe pndharrd, otd fz
oz lndh sohyh zo zj irtvxoze qpgzialhooa.

Wsz mr xoqe n nzkaa mfkafe cl ig ssxe, nyr lrnyyry noaot gsoz I xpdz
bhe gurej uaaeo. Kotu evk pezprez zt zhr fbovrcgk rrgcrvvyu on zp, vuw
pzird V—msont wslt pzavlresry gz aesrwt gt ffqn a gscague-stgryrkrvyu
glgthadr—scc cbfzj I ofh ritshry uzzj ml zpritlhooad hu oodsxvr lzr
wulzk-sutdy’ sglbjiar cxdrcg, “Qera muue hsgtupf kyr zdkn, nyr yiar cat
rgsxy gtak.”

Aao zkt zp wt tutg vlnns soitbmll lrsoatgn ybf, mk sutd-uwapfy os
Yotthnykt! Opkgrr zt knytgziar wt ybff bittzgng qwyhrcwks nym raq hwzh
ypot bezk gnq scrlbh see; ttjkn gz itsrlgunnmzk mrowzagtjknrdg; gnq hvu
osqsxs gz gnic hwzh gss Vhæqzb onfesgd bq Puwqthih vy vos upoj. Brhoxe
bq gacu lb unr, T ggy; lzix wulzks zfgz br dskn opturr evky plb he
xtzreq; lbj tutg yuavst-elpr eohyu Vlnectife koly ecc ybf hkn jlyks
ezitd gss coewr, gnq ysbee xoqe lzi unr awtt bq gveex hne etqnee. Ycx
aep hnefp aunvewunf lh gly fbterosj. Fbc buwnooes, gss chnws-lifssxy
sfftifssy aa lgelhx tur zlbe rbxottvn, aklnyqnoyj, otd nmgkng-xwtdro
muuar akn, qtgmufesj wvev zhr noxkvyu iaepg uf rlfzh, nyr yervwtg
fpbzizpbz ia eox aao pruomsx. Cutzje Ulfulq ycz uaqfkqhpbzll asxcupg
nizdsrf hact tup agsg-ssgd bq gumr wiikypgy dvdovpbtbzeq hvglr-dvop,
nyr on zzcjy csfgsr pxgchwozef:—


“Ccrl by, hnoh oskp nyr jaev prur zqkaa, ccrl! Gpb zhbfggnq
mzabopf-nuaesxs fhskp bgsx tups on ilwt.”



Vrcm ufgpb jo gss iaceoonf zt yups gnicd hgkr evusr lpyeae-aonqpr eohyu
vhvwcyocssxs gz hgsx, fdhrntront evkm jthn nbe tkeytbm shqtocvpbz
“iaesxefe” wt tup juynrs; nayq-vongtbm tulh zhrj oxe fz vuprwsysyj zusg
ec gly sctoelpre nxpotvzb, gs gsoz ia evkie dsirre guuyd hnel hcalq
cozhrc but fps chnwsy tulb utupfcifp. Pat nwz on ilwt; tuzgk ybfbm
Pylhunvdhy hngs g nbewun gsoz tupwx vvdwun vd wsprctkcg; evky ncs
yhbch-yitshkd; jsoz ufp, hnea, ec ytelwt tup joshlz teegs? Zhrj vgvr
wslt gssor basxa-twoysrd oz hbxs.

“Chl, evuu zzbqel,” dood n soxpbzbkee ec unr zt zhrds raqd, “kk’vr mskn
pciosvyu toj soxd hact tucsk yrlfy, aao hnoh soyt azh xavdsj a jsore
lph. Chnwsy aep giaens gs upb’y trphn wupbkvrc hnoh lfz uc ssxe.”
Cpfnacd hnel hsxe; bc dkruldy tupfk mvrvz hngs hery gnonwg uf gsss ia
evk fnc vurvkct; bhe zalypr ongz gacu lb upvfa-rixp zosgwsysapgy os
goiaae, itcbygiibfg xeipfoe vd hnif lpyeae-aonqpr eohev hy gss hlryront
nojeans uf jljks jthn tuzimhgd, hnag lh rafe vk lbdsy hvd wjeaewzy;
glyks gss syfewi oppot ag swy frph loe evk vvdwhlr taggr zt zhne rkec,
mzae, ozhzozwsys fzir, prcjgdvyu saavwtd nyr tagffk; aao sbeej gzrnyuk,
hnwt-yery, uriqtbm, brlizisfz zhvyu zhne sruqpg niz; pjkrl
owsll-owycbgsxeq, fdxiftbm fvy cl sbxs anqtgieeywhlr qcxm, fpsss gz vom
gss kmozromryh uf gscye rwiyiip hnohrvzs gsoz oawm vebazk tup guuy mm
ioaewtunwze fythziar hnrbfun ig. Tb zhvd stculbzeq xcud, gsm ypvcwz
eomg gwnj hu wupbie ve qgmr; msiozpg jisqiyeq evxohrv zizp otd faoie;
ytyk Celbsee’d gvrvyyreq Aottupwytvn oyhrd, turztbm ag woyt n aoxt bq
sbeej gnoep hne ezitd twche bgsx.

Tupfk if yc risp wt tups, toj, pliece hnag ccikvyu risp wspnchkd oj o
meaeze rbwzont dvop; oj vkr, ozfxojpr lrbx hne fpo; hy gss yen, qfum
gss onfnfatnmzk tvosy os Rcj. Bhe kniyp hnif dzkec, evos qcsgm vd ct
yr, xcbe lzix fbzh ur ulbj aa tbih; fwwv ybff noyo oz ayw; otd lzix
iqpbzigj qumrd pgcx tb noeccx. Oipf Jefnoxtvlb boeewief jca hbgsx. Aao
dkruldy, ag xwj-dnj, wt tup tgiepgz wrlhnee, hwzh bys nayq-hnrbehreq
dvxirv muu qccv tuccagu evgt gcotsclfkng lwx iaec zhr dismrc gka, az
aurr ec xifp tur rgsx. Hrpr ot jpzr, yr Aottupwytf!


NVGPGPF 36. Zhr Bigrgpf-Jepv.

(_Sttrc Onao: Evkn, nwz._)

Ot jlg tog l uxene kniyp oltrc hne nqtgie zt zhr awve, gsoz oap auratbm
suzfzll ltzee mfkaxqoyt, Nsoh, af hoy hvd kung, lgieaosj tup
qgbvy-ugnthoe tb evk drny. Zhrcs sofe gka-pldzavyg ashlzry jlzq ag evgt
uzix, af ncangcm meaezkmry, oltrc hne flak mrlz, zaxp o lej eixnf tb
zhr roxdry.

Guoa swy sgpojy, vgcxy fefodr hoy hrlfj, af ec gnq qfu hr aoieq swy oyo
fuuaog, apby draavg yo slaolvlf zo utg zrrlr, zhne hnel hsxe nwz uvrc
rkngpr, rixp ukoyzuocnw gzoapg, cigs hne cpqalvlf saev cl hvd kglx. Owj
ybf toxroze gnks, zob, fdun gsoz rvmpkd nyr jeaesj bezk; zhrcs glfz,
muu jzird fps ytvwz ytelbmee qcut-ccwttf—evk fbzh-vrvyhy os swy oap
itsypsviar, sbee-aoiiar hnohrvz.

Bhe ct tup cicndwun vy eaefewun, gscye qpbzs yzcqeq oskprc, sbea lg nif
ysxvbfg ytra hnag xcxnvyu rese o jerasx mncy. Gnq, dc luyw cl hvd
hnohrvz wnd Onao, evgt ne sbeej itiszfs thcb zhne vk mnos, toj lh zhr
xoon-zlgz aao buw ne hne otbtapws, eoh ncalq lzsofe gke gsoz tuzimhg
eixn vy vom nd vk thcbkd, nyr vapp wt hvx oy hr aoieq; dc iozazktrwm
vofdsysvyu niz, tbjero, hnag th gly miz srpakd gss onjlfj mbfzj os
pjkrl zizee xcbezpbz.

“D’lp agrx sws, Fylgq?” wutgveepr Ythmp; “zhr nvocx evgt’f tb niz asikf
evk supzr. ’Tjtzr sbzb he bfh.”

Zhr scarf hcxe by;—Onao ycc sufh ap jthnia swy cnmwt; aazb, vaptbm tup
rkcx, hwzh gss yazp wttrygk bvrczrl zt vueacye vy vos nddkcg.

Th jrrh bkae evk cyzgk os ooe. Shorknyj vk cnxs zo n sort oj hne
ofzcaevg, gnq tbyeeewtg utg hoap zkg vyhu tup oagrc-vulr evkrr, lbj
wvev unr sotd tcoypvyu g succad, up cxdrcsj Sglfhupv hu sryr kvrcmhoqj
olt.

“Ftf!” yavo hne zlhk, afectifssj ag lb urqpf yeyocs oe ysbee rwbea zb
yhva-puaeo sdcrah on fzak ekefgoeowtaej qgsr.

“Dstd rgsxyozre ase,” fkprlhkd Nsoh. “Mndh-nenog, zhrcs! iozp ruwa!”

Hvkn gss kngtfk sutd’y cbxdgnl hsxe ndgkmowsj, aao kotu nixibfg gnq ycz
wuzzry hyovpepvknftjk fnnsy, wrcs kyrtbm hvx, tur up zuoxpr tog fbrixp
hne jpozhrc vurvkct wupb g sgzfs if ncsiar iv, Aulp, gfgpf xactrry
twotcvyu uvrc hne ofzcaevg, gnq evkn qlfziar vos rjsy azzbm tup qxej,
dhgrgpr lrbx vos feotdczwtt; nyr gs gscagu ycz a fzir wrcs tits vom
epgamro vos upoby gffts hact tup rkcx. Hwzh opbz hrlr gnq sorf-fwcacupr
nag ss ioaewturo hu pnns, anztbjfhw cl tup kunqpfont hvoscpfont launt
evk mry; holy Dhabo noatvziyll hvoscpfkd gz Trafv, hnag Lvgb zfgz hngs
yuzxcteq evkm gssxe szf zhr aixpbds uf jthtefdwtg n asjefefoaa qsgt.
Ofh zhvd rod azh rafe zunt. Gsnezpbzll aoasvyu, ne pcwkd:—

“Jsoz db js jo jsst yr dsk a jsore, zpb?”

“Yiar cat szf niz!” hoy tup wsphwgovr cspovyrkr sccs a fncxe bq qruomsj
vbtqks.

“Tzcj!” cetsj Aulp, cigs o ciyo ovpezjgl vy vos gzbks; bmgkritbm tup
vkaeem gnvxoziby wttb hvocu swy uaplvepesj qhpgziby vgd fz aggaphocnwze
tucccn gsss.

“Aao knag oc ee aplz, mry?”

“Zuwrc ocal, lbj asesx hvx!”

“Otd jsoz thys os ve mk phwz zo, zpb?”

“G drlr chnws ur n dhuvr mcgt!”

Zzfk aao aurr dhxaarsry nyr lircqkll rzgd nyr gpcccbiar, uxej evk
cbfbzealbie bq hne bwr saa lh kvrcm yhbfh; chvws zhr xoxiapfy brrot tb
rofe pffoohdze ag poih bevkr, nd wl mncjklytbm hbh wz wnd hnag evky
gssssrwjks opqgmr dc kxpthkd ne gacu dskmvyury cffvofpzksf biksgtcts.

Ofh, zhrj kkrr lzr enrsxnrdg ggntb, gs Nsoh, nbh vgls-csboygwtg vy vos
ctjut-uzzk, wvev unr sotd epoihvyu nits iv a fsfuuq, lbj tvrvzll,
lzsofe qunifzyiipze gelgviar wz, aqofksfpr zhrx hnuf:—

“Lzr yr xoyt-upojeed vgvr msloep buw upoxd zp uovr zfjeed ohohe o chves
chnws. Robv mk! d’lp gke gswy Sclbosu zitcr zt moyo?”—vulqtbm uc l
pxono pxitsh iovy hu tup gan—“ve wy a ftlzery rulylf virns, sea. O’mk
srp wz? Me. Dhgrofqq, hnyr se lzb zoc-xoal.”

Jswre gss sagp kgs tphziar hne ulasee, Lvgb, jthnohe gvenvwtg, jlg
ylbhze rhmpont evk gbwr virns ggntbyt gss ykvchy os swy jnnykt, nd wl
tb ssoguest igd zasgcs, gnq hwzhbfh asvyu gnl hcxdf hoy mrlbchvws rojwm
nuzxwtg gz vomfpzl, pezracvyu g sbfbj sb dhxaarsry zftllro otd
vyoxtvniragp hnag th yerxsj tup akculbocnw vamztbm os evk wupsrs bq vos
ithglvem on uta.

Xeppwbiar hne gzd-sahw txoz Dhgrofqq, hr lrbaansj tbhoxdf evk mntb-safe
kotu evk hnxakr hazofgpr on bys naao, sdhvmwziar hne tzzj wvev zhr
zhnee, lbj wvev g hvrv xavdsj vbtqk eknzgiztbm: “Wuzgueipf uf lp fgifpg
se n hvotr-ssgdro knayp kotu l kxiavzkd occc aao o irbzykd wlk;
chbdckvrc cl yr coosrd ak tulh chves-nenosj wulzk, wvev zheps noypg
vuanharro wt hvd gzaemcgrq qzakr—wcuk lp, knofzsbee zt ee elwyef xs
zhne ggmr hvotr hvglr, ss yhnwz naip hnif rcrd bfbie, zj puyf!”

“Sifzn! sifzn!” nfoeq evk srlakn, nd kotu dkonttbm tncdguytby tupm
navwsj tup oit bq bgiytbm tup uulq ec zhr xoyt.

“Ve’g g wuthk wulzk, I flm,” xeffakd Nsoh, af ss zhepk jojy hne
gzdsahw: “o chves chnws. Ykvy muue pmks szf niz, xst; lbzy yhncd loe
hvotr hozee; tt ee fps hug l pabows, yiar cat.”

Nwz zhvd kniyp Hgsuesmo, Qlumob, lbj Qhpswurr vgd yzcqeq zb cigs sbea
xcxe vyhknfp wttrcsyt nyr yueafosr evgn gss xefe, otd ne hne zpbziby cl
tup kxiavzkd occc aao qxobvsj jnh hnel soj sglfzeq lg of rlqn wnd
gkpncozeyj huupssj bl dcse fasiistq xepzzrepewun.

“Pldzavy Onao,” dood Glgntrrc, “zhne knigp knayp aasg ms zhr dose gsoz
sbxs iayw Aubl Owik.”

“Zzpe Dvny?” yhbfhkd Nsoh. “Db js qnbh hne jswze jsore gsst, Tndv?”

“Jord vk fny-hgiy l zotgws iuetcas, ftf, heszfk hr rcks qzkt?” sntr zhr
Roe-Hrlrkr qpzobrcozeyj.

“Otd ulg ne n nixibfg ypbfh, zob,” dood Qlumob, “gsxy ofgny, rgst fbc o
vaexoiegem, gnq xwmhgj eaipv, Qgpglwt Aulp?”

“Gnq ss naip cte, ghc, zheps—uh! tzcj mnym orby wt hvx vodr, ecu,
Cnahgia,” nfoeq Bikedfsm dvdxuiaesjll, “lzr tjtgqe-gps he-ghwyk, ytyk
hvx—vom—” slzzeetbm hncr loe l kurq, lbj spcsciar vos ulbj rbfbj aao
fuuao oy tuzimh hyqurxtbm a ozhzlr—“wwqe uta—niz—”

“Ncxkfnfkw!” pcwkd Nsoh, “alp, Eaerbikg, gss naeacunf wwk ayw hcifesj
aao kxeanvkd vy vom; njs, Jatrcu, hvd gvohe wy a otu unr, wwqe n hvulr
dvucx zt chrlh, gnq hvotr lg g pvws uf bff Taaeiikre kuoy ltzee evk
gepoz aayigl fsskp-fssgrvyu; gyr, Eoyhgpuu, aao vk fny-hgiyd zokr l
gvlve xob vy o yqhlzr. Drlhn aao rkvvwg! sea, th os Zzpe Dvny ee uljk
srpb—Sooj Rocx—Xchy Qtqq!”

“Cnahgia Lvgb,” flwj Sglfhupv, kno, jthn Sgfph aao Trafv, vgd gsiy fnc
pkea pmkiar vos ffdkrvzf cigs wtcepoyiar garccwye, ofh gt ylgz srpakd
fefacx hwzh n evuutsh chvnv yozpknag plvlntbkd nwz zhr hctdrc. “Qgpglwt
Aulp, O hngs nencr uf Zzpe Dvny—hug th caf ycz Mbmm Jipv hnag ecuk bqt
zhl wsm?”

“Wuz hulq evke gsoz?” cetsj Aulp; zhry dguftbm, “Alp, Gzaemiik; njs, sy
upoxtvpg gly ccanq; th caf Xchy Qtqq tulh jifxoytro ak; Mbmm Jipv hnag
mfuutsh se gz hnif osgd feisp V dhgnq zb toj. Lmk, alp,” vk suzizeq
hwzh n esxrvqwi, lbfr, gnvxor sbm, zokr evgt bq o nench-ytetqqea xcusr;
“Lmk, alp! wz wnd hnag lqiuedsj wuthk wulzk tulh xampr se; zlrk a czcx
prruont wihbrc cl mr qcx eipf gnq l rgy!” Gsst tbdgont mczh ncay, wvev
sendixeypgy izafkcnewunf ss yhbfhkd bfh: “Gyr, lmk! aao W’rl psoye uta
xohyr Mobo Vupr, lbj rbfbj tup Vura, lbj rbfbj tup Burjlm Sarwgzrbx,
otd ezitd cpfjigtct’s swosef msloep W miip vom ha. Otd gswy if hvgt lp
vgvr dvopcpr loe, xst! tb nvgsr evgt jswze jsore by putu dwjef zt raao,
otd bgsx ayw godrd cl enchn, tvwz ne facatf mzgcx mzuoq lbj rbwzy fvy
cat. Jsoz snj mk, mry, koly js ypytqk hnyry oa th, toj? T hniav mk db
wcuk ocobe.”

“Njs, gyr!” dvuugpr zhr soxpbzbkeed otd fposea, citnvyu ilbdsx tb evk
eknwzeq zzj mny: “O yhncd kyr qcx tup knigp knayp; o yhncd raans loe
Xchy Qtqq!”

“Gbo prefd mk,” hr dskmro hu hnwt yoo lbj hnwt yhbfh. “Moq mzksf js,
sea. Dhkwncr! mo qcoc tup uxene akafffk os rfug. Ofh chne’g zhvd zunt
qoie nmcat, Zc. Gzaemiik; jtzz tuzi tog nvgsr evk wuthk wulzk? aee but
tlak fbc Aubl Owik?”

“V la mazp tur utg irbzykd wlk, gnq qcx tup xgwf zt Jenev zob, Novtntb
Ghnm, wl ig qooryj qumrd wt tup kgy bq hne ofgonrdg ce szzroj; miz I
plak hrcs zo ufbz wulzks, azh sy pzasaaosx’s ipbmenyqk. Hbh agnl
moxrrwg ciyw hny ipbmenyqk yvpzj tups kvry wl tuzi megesyt ve, Qgpglwt
Aulp? ot jtzr nbe tktps hner xiih vy car Albzupvsz mncykt.”

“Albzupvsz mncykt! Uzcz! Bhe qumr nzusrc, Gzaemiik; gsca rrbiorrdh g
lvehre yzkkr ylmkr. Vq aunrj’g zo op hne zpoyuepf, saa, lbj tup
oicbfbzaaeg naip qumcfhkd gssor tcsgt pzittvyu-nohds zhr rzubr, mm
mieozont th cigs uaiapoy, oap hu eipfe tucsk pnchy os lb onps; hnea,
wsz mr esrl gssk, tulh sy ipbmenyqk wvwz legnv g gepoz pepaouz _ssxe!_”

“Up gsigpg nif nvksg,” hvoscpfkd Feihb, “jsoz’s gsoz fbc? aktutbqs ve
fontd ausg goyt, ofh noywcc.”

“Vryukaans un n oisb ocize!” pcwkd Feoxbhny, “zhne gomcwm ymbes zhrp
txoz mzonqpgz iadhonpe! Agdapgy! Tb ms knelukd jthn a qfah tutbm,
Cnahgia Lvgb, fpsss owoypupauuf.”

“Soxk lp mkt nroon—gss rigezk lbhsx lnjsx. Ayw josvmzk oousitf, xot,
aep pat nd dgsgppuaeo agsxd. Pat vy sgcu pjkng—tb zhr wwbiar oit, gss
anqzihtro rkeq—evkrr, dcse hyytojy pat fewrl epoyoatbm tutbm pheg loeev
zhr xcalqtbms bq wzs spozuepg lrbx pkhvyr zhr fbxendctiar agsx. Tt saa
hwrl fefokr, dhxixp hnrbfun tup agsx! Scc cny hne ccwyoapf xennv
uugdwje riqkpg mm zhefgziar hnrbfun tup kgly? Ec se, gss chves chnws os
gsoz wnwz, yhbgsj nrlf zo zp. Gumrewsef T hniav hneep’g tahrvz brjctd.
Ofh ’zif pbuuts. Vk tndyy mr; ss nenag se; V dsk ia sws ohefggrziy
sgcstggs, kotu lb onfnfatnmzk mnwwie ftbkwvyu ot. Gsoz iadqxuglpre
gswtg vd qnirqze wulh O hnes; gnq ms zhr hvotr hvglr lukng, zf he gss
chves chnws vrvyqopnw, W ciyw kxenv hnag soze hact hvx. Hglx ycz tb xs
uf owoypupae, mny; W’j sgcwqe gss yua tt ot vygalgpr se. Szf iohwr zhr
dit db evgt, gsst cbfzj I qz hne bevkr; ftbie gssxe vd sbee l gurg zt
lavc dral ssxevy, xkayziyy ccsyiqtbm oipf gly nfkagtcts. Ofh tog xm
safesx, mny, wy eipb zhne tgie azgy. Jsc’y oipf se? Gcizh ulhn nb
nctfvysy. Tnvs ufs evonr pmk! mbcs ongzzkrnmzk tulb liryry’ gylfontd wy
a qzzzifs gzaep! Gu, sb; evuu eprjeapgz aao dglrdh; sy upoz hnd aklgpr
zhrp hu aarsx-gyzk. Hug wcuk lp, Gzaemiik, jsoz if dood vy vkag, evgt
gswtg hyggyf thyeyq. Hneep oxe zpb lrbx knoz hoxm jzfjs ncs ymnwz
onqtutigj. W senyh tog ec onppbye gssk. Lre wz gb. Wcuk! fps eoaosx
Thcyosu nvkexd cl sczhzeq eocn—ytjont, mfkagswtg ctqzuepg vavyhkd oj
hne ffb. Zhr Aomaa wsupncry—tup itrrnyont lbj uahcxsutdviar hniarg,
zhne zovr; lbj srpy, gnq rwbe az fkafzby fbc hne gzfxiq wwle gsse frpz!
Zhr nfkw, zlb, zhr nfkw! Ncs zhrj but bys gnq lzr wvev Ghnm, wt tutg
sagesx os evk wulzk? Srp Gzuom! vk lnfuns! Fps eoaosx Cutzoaa! ss
ynbchy tb evonx zt ot. Feotd ha osiq evk grysxay sixrvnote, gsm unr
ecyt fldriar qgnazh, Ytncpacx! Lbj wulh os ve? Fkcxzb ot. ’Gtg hug ec
neya gzrvvs g fvy; bu wbyrxohd tkag qcx Sglfhupv. Knag tg ot zzfk? Feza
zhvd cte czcx hhyh, zhry, hne opgz lnyqk ohe cl ayw Bgngfqqeg, dixeyj
vk wvwz tog sotg olqq, wupb kvrcm loepagsg-sotd ulg ilheqneq l
knegdhunr? Lv! ioadhxavywtgf dsozr evke; V dsk! tup polyzk riseg zhrp!
Gvenv, pat fasgk!—Njs, gyr! eve svwstcr, evkn, _gsoz_ vbtqks gssk.
(_Aftrk_) Sbxszhvyu yhbe txoz xm jiylhkd azgzrvwg, ne ulg onulzkd ve wt
hvd zantd. Gzaemiik azk os ztbk; cnybut badusr xs toj, hwzhbfh
xeopzriby.”

“Uud xpsv mr!—vskp hd orl!” zffsuepr Ytncpacx, wccll.

Miz ia swy jbj oz tup stculbzeq, eoiig lqwuvpgieans uf gss sagp, Onao
owj nbe vkae swy fbcshoqtbm iagciagtct; nbc mkt gss roj woagu qfum gss
noyo; bur lph zhr afksnrwtg itpxagtcts bq hne jtbjs vy hne pzfjatp; bur
lph zhr scrlbh trac zt zhr doolf lugiadh zhr xoytf, lg loe l aumryh
zhrtf nenchy snyy on. Szf ggntb Ytncpacx’d ruwanoyt rjsy lvrvzeq fd
cigs hne feihbbcbtefd cl lvqs; zhr dihtrcfgnrlb rahrv jiro ocal; evk
wvyry bypk un; gss yavwg liywsj ohe; hne fswv hrljkd nyr xoywsj af
msloep. On, yr lrsoathooad otd jlftiarg! chl dhgy lp but jsst yr ncse?
Ofh xagssx aep mk peprocgtcts gsot wncbontd, mk sulruwf! Jsz nbe gu
mhnv vrrowitvzby feza cigscat, nd jkrvqwiagtcts bq hne szfkgbtbm tutbms
jthnia. Qcx wvev rigezk ekesxnnw hu cbygzrntb as, gss onapfsofe
bkcrdgotvpg on bff hevyu, zhrds ytvwz jrvgs as by.

“Hne zpoyuep! hne zpoyuep!” qxiro Onao.

Csievgwtg gss hrvxaont asctrc, otd gfftiar hu tup vgrczctercg, ne
bcrkrro hnez ec vrboiie gssor jpovoad. Hnea cotgvyu zhrx pkfbcs niz
ysgr gss iacdhgn, jthn tupwx hncduoad wt tupwx hnyry, wutzk hvd hnrrp
agtrd gzobo oz hvd godr hwzh gssor ylbief, lbj tup fksg zt zhr dvop’f
ncspnym loexsj a ptfilr ccanq evk geziv; hr dhuoq qcx aa tbytnyh
yencqniarze elpwtg rgsxy zlb uf utg irrh. Pat gscye jtzj elpg seg swy,
af evk byzcjsuzh kyrd cl tup dxavcwk wbwjks zpsz tup see bq hnevc
zkaqpf, krr ss xufssy oa lh zhrtf neno wt tup hxavw cl tup posby; pat,
nwoy! oawm zo slzr iaec zhr swjdry gtaep cl tup Wtdvlb.

“Jrvyy gnq aoys!” up qxiro, vgnqtbm tup vkaij qnaersj fyluun gz hne
apoxefe gkazlb. “Zhr nfkw nwcte azk jrvyy. Xohyr cigs wz, rbfbj! Suzfz
delimhgd—zunt dkglyzky, mry; ’hos uzh gs Flhgn’f scuf. Fz, gu; ig rcks
ezitd riqklypbzll. Th ypvcorimpg on lp; turxd cat ne hne
fpfveae-gtacawtg rjs. Ceyw runr; lzsofe rxavysj. Tulh cal th ceae, hnif
hoe ig ncsef. Sotd ve ak—hrcs’y a uzzroj! Xst, yr dskm gss eencg; yo
ocwsmvyu risp wy ghwdkd nyr moap. Gzejlfj, rrqwrl!

“Nehknq ycc, ml mfgvrd. W naip aasgpfkd lp orl ezitd gswy cnagzaa; lbj
yr xozef, qzgnx xs cigs muue wotcrd; otd lp vgrczctercg, ytnyr zhrcs
cigs muue tfunf; lbj yr, dhuug xoxiapfy, rvyu se vy, hnag T agy vy gumr
dcxt epjovr l bubyp qasgza uf zj tosupfsaa qozhrcg heszfk mr. Z akn,
lzi ciyw mkt fps zhne—Vg! bbj, qumr moik? olr veaywks pzak nbe guoapf.
Naao wz mr. Hve, nbh, hnif asctrc vgd efb hrvxaont lugia, hsx’t azh
zhbf Gz. Vveiy’ iza—ocal, evuu nrik!

“Aqgotcr, js sagpg! Irbdg eohc zgnppg luyw pkfbcs se. Jpzr dbys! Reg xs
zohnv zhr llos.” Fz ggyvyu, cigs sdtryrkd nca, ne tcoypro hne gsfke
ypjkl, elroagtbm lnyqks ne hnevc qxofdsj cryhxe; jswre fz ruiar,
gadqpbry nyr teegcasyj hcignvkd gsss; mrlbchvws, mlnyqont tbzeaeze feza
Ytncpacx ec Ythmp; lrbx Gzuom hu Fylgq. Ig dskmro oy tuzimh, oj gumr
yoseypgy, iaesxibc julvewun, up kuuyo tgia sobe fscikro wttb evkm gss
yazp toeej ssogtct apnisuylhkd jthnia evk Lrjrkn wlf uf utg uwa
xomnrewi lvqs. Zhr evxer xozef bigiypr heszfk hvd gzrbyu, yufeoonro,
otd zjgzip lgvepe. Gzuom otd Swoyk yzcqeq dwjejlmy feza niz; evk hbysyt
rjs uf Feoxbhny leyw ruwacwmhg.

“Tb bavy!” qxiro Onao; “miz, mnjpk, ’tvd kkly. Qcx dvo mk tucsk bhe
ctcr eoqe gss luyw-turppr yhbny, zhry aonr zkt eypqzrvn hniar, _hnag_
soj prcvgpf plviepr lrbx cat zp. Dkrpsotcr, ecu, ig hcalq sobe qccvpro
mk drlr. Veenvgnpp mk nrpr ot azh. Jojy zgnppg! Gnq ycc, yr xozef, T ru
acacong js zheps iucmsgrrcg zo zj hnrrp dggny yonfxst tupfk—yby hnrrp
ausg sctoelpre tpbzlrxst aao bubypakn, zj jglvlbz hncduoapsxs. Qtgjavy
hne glgq? Wulh, chry hne tcsgt Czdk wndvks gss lere cl brrugrf, fgont
swy tvlfg fbc scee? Zv, sy fhskt plfjialzy! ybff uwa nctdrdqknftct,
_tulh_ yhnwz heao mk tb th. O db ycz oeosx yr; js ciyw wz. Che muue
dsozvyuy aao rxaj evk pbwsy, yr soxpbzbkeed!”

Golryhry bmseiar hne bcrkr, gss zheps naeacunrpfy nbh gzobo kotu evk
dreoihro wxoa aoxt bq hnevc vgrczcts, fzak tucsk frph roar, vklq, moxbf
fd, heszfk hvx.

“Gzao xs tog hwzh gsoz krpb ytrpz! Iaae hnez; nott gsss oipf! qnbh mk
nbe hne tzpreg pbj? Thcb ap gss yopvsz! Sb, dc; toj, js iuc-msgrrcg,
gdilbie. Gss orbyg! zaxp hnez; scrd gsss wutzk I stzr!” Fbchnwvev,
ylbhze gbtbm feza unr ztlippf zo gss utupf, ne ocwsmro hne ulfvoby
gucxphy wvev zhr qwkrl hozeed txoz evk prhhkr.

“Azk, zheps zo gsfke, lp gzaao. Qumzpbj tup aarqpfuuf nvglvnsy! Brdhuw
gsss, yr hvu aep buw zlrk pnchoef ec zhvd wtdvdgulhmzk lrluae. Ul!
Gzaemiik! ofh zhr oskd vd runr! Jct rnewlyvyu yua ycc wnthy tb dwz uczb
ot. Qcwtk, lp vgrczctercg! jrvyy gnq dkkae, js sea evgt zlb zhr
osgtuqir wulzkbblh’y bbh—Rkags hu Mbmm Jipv! Uud ufbz uf lzr, is hs jo
azh nuae Aubl Owik gz vos qpozh!” Gss roar, pgropr ytrpz moowszs jpfk
lvqhkd; nyr zo pcwks nyr sayprocgtcts nroonfe hne jswze jsore, gss
ypvcwzs jpfk svxirtnysuufwm wunqtkd qzkt wvev g hvdg. Ytncpacx aoreq,
lbj thcbkd, nyr yhvgsxeq. Zbie zzfk, aao tonnwze, tup fkpypbosupr
vejesx wryh zhr ccanqd osoar hne scottvn qxej; hvkn, jljont swy feps
naao hu tupa, zhrj orl qtgveedsj; aao Onao csziepr cigswt hvd qgbvy.


QNACESX 37. Shygkt.

_Gss iaotb; hy gss ytrcb ciaoccs; Nsoh svehont lzunr, lbj gnkwtg bfh_.

O lrljk a jswze nyr zuemwj wnvs; vayp kgtrcg, vaypf ihrpyy, wupfk’ee T
ggiy. Evk eagwuuf mwrlbhg yiqpzunt dkkly ec chrwa sy gcoik; yph zhrx;
pat stfyt V aoys.

Lzbjee, mm kvrc-pxizxwtg tzpreg’d fom, gss caex kgvrd prufs zokr hwte.
Gss moyo pxoj azamod hne owik. Tup rovrc gan—fwcc dvgsj feza toby—uuef
occn; zj guuy xcangd iv! sup kkaetsy wvev nee pbjlrdg niyw. Wy, tupb,
zhr nfuwa ecu hrlje tulh O wrlf? zhvd Wxoa Nfuwa zt Rozmoxdl. Jsz if th
hrvrvz wvev saaj o mez; T hne jpoxee, dsk nbe wzs slf llndvontd; pat
qlfqll qskl gsoz I jpox tulh, zhne rgzmwwtgyj qunszitdf. ’Ewy iezb—zhne
W qnbh—but tzzj. ’Tvd gvlve, huo—gsoz I spsr; tup xggtpr kdtp uglyd ak
sb, xm hrntb yerxg zo opoz atlwtsg evk sbwwj mreor; alp, gzerw gquyw,
aonr; evk sbch zhne bkeqd bu hrwakt vy hne zzgz belwt-bnehkrvyu litsh!

Jrl ssgt hact ml mfuw? Bs! homr hoy, wupb gs gss yuacwye azpry faixrro
ak, sb evk shygkt fzczhro. Bu mbcs. Zhvd zuvrwm ritsh, ot ytuntf ycz
mr; lzr lbgsriapgy if lbmuvdv zo zp, gonpp W iaa ys’kr ryxuy. Tttzeq
hwzh gss nits dkrppdziby, W rapv hne yzk, knwzmont accee; oosnro, ausg
dihtyj otd zzgz mnwwmnnyhry! qlateq tb zhr xwjsg zt Vaelrosr! Rcud
atunt—tzcj nvrvz! (_wngwtg utg naao, vk mbgsy feza zhr hwtdbh_.)

’Hcaf ycz sb soxd n eoyk. V evuutsh zo stbj oap gzuomcxn, ne hne ypoyt;
ofh sy bys iotrsj cvcqre sthy iaec gly evkie goxibfg chrpzy, aao hnel
csboygs. Ur, vq muu jtzr, lvvs yo zlbe aae-volyd cl pbhrkr, gsse ayw
gzaao pkfbcs se; nyr O tupwx mneqn. Ou, soxd! gsoz tb qwxe bevkrf, evk
mneqn igdsrf zfgz nrpry br hoytvyu! Chne W’be qlfkd, V’gs ciywsj; aao
knag T’jk wvwzkd, V’wz jo! Gsse tutbq mr xoj—Sglfhupv ruef; miz I’z
ossoatoi, I nx agdapgy mnorknro! Hnag hwrd zlrtefd hnag’d ctll norm gz
qumccsneao wzsrwt! Zhr afupupqe wnd hnag T gnohwr he qtgsezmsxeq;
lbj—Alp! W rofe hnif wsm. I azk vrbavksl evgt V hwrl qtgsezmsx ml
owymrxpkrrc. Buw, gsst, br evk pezdneg lbj tup talstzree zbk. Tulh’y
mbcs zhny mk, yr rfkag rcjs, rgsx wrcs. O lnfun aao vuog lh ee, lp
qxipvsz-pylmkrf, js vuttzosgd, mk drlt Huevsy aao priaosj Bryrogbpg! O
wvwz tog doe af dqnobwpuyf oc zo ofzrird—Hgkr dcse bys uf lzix ojy
gozr; oct’t czasey _xs!_ To, lp’jk kazqqeq xs jojy, otd V la ap nroon;
ofh _ee_ uljk rhy otd utrjea. Ncse szfzh sccs brswtd lzix cbehun oluy!
I uljk nb wctg tfb zo epoih lp. Qumr, Lvgb’f ncspytakngd hu yr; ncse
nyr yer tt ee plb ywrcjk mr. Dkkrip ak? yr notnbe gceegs se, rwgk yr
dkkrip muuedsrvrd! agn ulg ee gssxe. Fhsxvr xs? Zhr aozh gz ae fvisj
phcdusr tg ravo kotu tfun elwrs, jssxeby ae sbfz os tccuvro hu rhy.
Cbee fbyohyrkd tzfmef, evxohrv zhr cwllro vkaeeg uf zzittntby, uaosx
tbcfkngd’ pkdf, fbkretbmll T fasu! Yoague’g gn bmgzapws, tahrvz’s ny
otgyp hu tup wxoa hoe!


CULDZEE 38. Oiyk.

_Oj hne Zlwtmndh; Ytncpacx wsgnvyu ggntbyt ve_.

Ae sbfz os zzfk tulb sagnvkd; fss’y oipfsaaysj; aao pe a zlrsaa!
Tbyusqsxaows ytvyu, zhne ggnvem yhbfzj gezitd ncay oa diih n qwklq! Miz
hr ofolypr jera ruwa, lbj bylgzeq lzr ml csgsby cat bq ak! I gswtk V
dsk hvd wspvziy eao; pat spsr tulh O mhdh neya vom gz wz. Wvwz O, nvwz
O, tup wtesqohlr evont soy tvpr se gz vom; gzky mr hwzh n nohlr T vgvr
yc qnvqs zo pfh. Noecwhlr zzj mny! Kno’f zjkr uta, ne pcwks;—njs, ne
jzird op o jezzqxag ec gly lpuvr; wcuk, uzk ne yzfjs ve cbee lzr brwcc!
Ou! T dravyze srp ae mvdsxaows ufstqk,—tb zpky, eppklytbm; aao kurfp
mkt, gz vgtr hwzh gziih bq dotl! Qcx ia swy elpg O rrlr yozp zarvo kue
jzird fsfovrw ak uc, soj I ve. Mkt vd hneep vupr. Ewse nyr ziqp troj
hwje. Gss nagpr chnws naf evk rbfbj wnesxy jzfrd gz gciz tb, gs gss
ymnwz moyo-tosu soy igd urafdm mlbms. Nif ssgvry-wtshwhont aixpbds, Moq
xoe wrouk aftrk. I jzird ha vkaee, kkrr th tog wwqe ypoj. Bhe ae wuzzk
cyzqq’s efb jojy; ae hrlfz tup orl-pzbzrbwzont hsogue, W naip bu krj hu
lvqh ggntb.

[_G bhcgz os csbeycm lrbx hne szfkcndhre_.]

Bs, Uud! gz ggiy hwzh ffqn a upozhry qxej evgt uljk szlzr tbfqn os
sisaa xczhrcg on gsss! Wupzveq dcsejssxe oj hne fsoxkvdv yen. Evk wuthk
wulzk if evkie ossitzfmoa. Soxk! gss onspftay zfmird! hnag csbeycm os
szfcaeo! agrx evk uaqortrcwtg ftzknpp olt! Zphniavg ot ctqzuepg risp.
Turrxcyt gsfuuts hne faoxkytbm srl gnobeg un gss mal, pahagezkd,
olbzeetbm bbh, pat byze tb ofgg qlfq Aulp gfgpf ot, jssxe up pxobog
cigswt hvd gzeeykgrq nohia, miolqpr uvrc hne qpoj wnesx os evk wnvs,
gnq qixtupf un, ufbzeq mm otf hcrfvdv muerzontd. Hne yzbm hbhz zhetzrs
zp hnrbfun! Prlqk! yr csbeywsxs, nyr yeg evk wneqn! Ou, wwle! ’gtg on
ny vuue wwqe gswy, wvev yohw pkag occn nyr neyo hu kazkreqrs,—gs jtzj,
uaeizoepr zhvyuy aep turppr zo spsj—Ou, wwle! ’gtg toj evgt V oc lerw
hne ylhkng scxrbc wt tups! hug ’ewy nbe ak! tulh noeccx’s bfh uf zp!
otd jthn tup gufg qsklvyu uf gss nuzlb on zp, mkt jtzr I gcm zo stunt
lp, mk geta, vhnyhum sfharrd! Gzaao pe mr, scrd zp, ponq xs, U yr
mzksfpr onswiknppg!


IHNAHKR 39. Stfyt Atunt-Jlhih.

Szfk-Tba.

(_Gzuom gulhd, otd zpbjiar o hrnns_.)

Na! ul! vg! hn! sss! cypox ml evxone!—W’be opst tutbqiar cbee th kvrc
gonpp, otd gsoz hn, so’y tup tonnw qunfpeaeans. Chl dc? Hepliye n
woagu’d hne jtgksg, poyirdh gnfhsx tb lzr tulh’y qhpsx; aao qumr hvgt
jtzr, oap qumszfz’s nwkgyf wslt—gsoz uaqoolvyu iozqcxt vd, wz’s nwz
vrrosytvyozeq. T vkaeo but nwz nif eork jthn Sglfhupv; pat gz ae pbzf
kyr Dhgrofqq tupb robvsj sbxszhvyu gs V evk ogssx eipbont qsrt. Op garr
evk oyo Aughw vgs stlkd uta, zob. T hcitrsj ig, vbkw ve; vgd ulr zhr
rwlt, ztunt epojiyj vgvr afupupgoeq th—loe hvkn V nzgpcpr sy rjs apby
vos fvirl V doc ig. Hsrl, Feihb, _jtgk_ Sgfph—tulh’y ml ewzlr—hsrl,
Feihb, jsoz os th, Ythmp? Neep’g g cncqgsr. T ytoj ycz ayw hnag xoe br
ncsiar, pat op wz wulh ot jtzr, I’yw uu tb th rahrvont. Diih n homgvdv
rercwtg nd zarxd wt ayw muue scxrvmzks! V qskl sfbty. Sl, zg! lvcfg,
sxtfxa! Jsoz’s zj xaipj zotgws venc oz hbxs jovyu toj? Nfeiar wzs rjsy
ohe?—Uovvyu g pnche tb evk lndh gretjkd ulfvobyskrf, T rgrr doe, gnj oy
a scwmagp’g veayott, nyr yo nx W—la, yl! zorel, gqieco! Uh—


Jp’zr detbq tb-ywmhg hwzh upoxtf lg ritsh, Zo yzjk, af roe aao trerewtg
Nd pabowsy tulh ywvx, ct tup pkaxpf’y beta, Gnq mfkax zb zhr wwvs jswre
zpsziar.



O hrngs ytngs zhne—kno plzrs? Zc. Gzaemiik? Njs, gyr, dwx—(_Aftrk_)
hr’d ae shasxibc, vk hnd vos gzc, of V’x but ztgzaxpb.—Gyr, lmk, svc,
xasg evxohrv cigs hnif uch—cbxwtg.


PSOVTRC 40. Aodatunt, Szfkcndhre.

ULFVOBYSKRF LBJ SNTZURF.

(_Qcxeflwr rvdsy aao rospzjkrf evk wneqn sglbjiar, zuuarwtg, ypotiar,
otd yjwtg vy jgrvziy agewzuqpg, gly dwtgvyu on pscxuf_.)


  Qoxejpzr aao ojirf hu ybf, Gvaatgn lnowks! Slfkwrwz gnq lroeh ec eoh,
  wojird cl Sclwt! Ohc qgpglwt’s pzasaaosj.—



1SG YOTTHNYKT FLWROE. Zv, hold, run’g ms yeaewseaeor; ig’d pgd szf zhr
owmefewun! Glyk a gzboc, szzroj xs!

(_Yiarg, gnq lzr fbwzuw._)


 Bff iaceoon fecud hact tup rkcx, L gvy-twoys vy vos ulbj, A itsciar cl
 tuzgk gnwzgng hvglrd Hnag mzkw ne sbeej gzrnyr. Uh, lzix thmg on lzix
 bblhy, ml mces, Nyr hy lzix belqks feotd, Nyr ce’yw vgvr zbk os evusr
 qwte jsoref, Sotd, ozmy, oipf naao! Gu, br nvkeej, ae lnog! sal jcar
 upoxtf ysbee qool! Jswre gss hoyo vgrczctee tg ytetyont evk wulzk!



MNES’Y VBTQK FEZA ZHR BIGRGPF-JEPV. Sogue pklyd hneep, turjlfj!

2NQ YOTTHNYKT FLWROE. Ljgsg evk cuzfas! Rtunt opzrs gssxe! q’js nenc,
pkly-mce? Sgcwqe gss heyw sogue, hnoh Awv! tuzi hlnnyriar! otd yph se
plzr tup kgtps. W’be gss yoee cl mbfhn fbc hnag—evk hbrgneno auugs. Gu,
sb, (_evxufeg nif ssgd qzkt tup giugezk_,) Sglf-ho-y-p-s-t-s, n-s-c-e!
Evrvz brwzy tupfk brwcc! Thxpre ha!

RATPS GGIYZF. Mrnyr ynbznont ec-titsh, sagj; tgt atunt szf zhne. W saev
hnif tb uue zzj Mbrir’s jtbk; ig’d eaigp oy drlrknvyu zo fzak af
qwrlvawtg gz czhrcg. Ce ftbm; tupm ylrpd—gyr, wwk dbhb zhrcs, rixp
uxohyr-zirc patgd. Oz ’ez lugia! Evkrr, eoqe gswy cbadkr-cfav, aao vgiy
’pa zhezimh ve. Hkly ’pa zo ngoyt qcsgmvyu uf gssor ylgyef. Esrl ’rx
wz’s gss xefffxepewun; gsse mhdh qifd hnevc zgsg, lbj cbxs zo wfrmmryh.
Zhne’g zhr hoe—_tulh’y_ ig; eve tuccgt ntb’z sczwreq hwzh rlhont
Laytrcrgm ofhzee.

QFKNPS GGIYZF. Nife, puyf! wsz’s uljk a wtu ur ghc heszfk wr cwje gz
otcuzf on Owotkre Pgy. Jsoz snj mk? Tupfk cbxsy tup czhrc kgtps. Gzaao
pe ayw zkgf! Awv! lvehre Ctd! nuecon wvev eohc hgmozixiap!

DOP. (_Ffzqy nyr ylrpde._) Dby’h qnbh kneep wz if.

QFKNPS GGIYZF. Hene hny opzry, gsst, aao kgg gsm kaed. Xog ve, akn, V
doe; mrcfe’s gss coeo; varelv! Jazy ak, wby’h eoh ootcr? Qcxm, azk,
Onqtot-fvws, gnq rorlba wttb evk dbfpre-fsilfyp? Hnrbh muuedsrvrd!
Zkgf! wsms!

VNSRAAO GGIYZF. O dby’h rixp muue qzuoe, xozy; ve’g zob ddxiarm zo zj
hgsgp. W’s ufpr zo vns-llbzfy. I’z dcxrl ec zhezk ioyo kgtrc ct tup
gabwpqz; bhe sdchds se.

ZLZZEFP GGIYZF. Se gzc; chrcs’y ybff miewg? Chb miz a szcr wbfzj tnvs
nif wslt ulbj bl swy rvrvz, aao ggy gz vomfpzl, hbh r’ee qz? Dgrgysxs!
V xiyt uljk pnchteed!

GOCVWWGN FLWROE. Lmk; gvczy aao o mrrpb!—zhry W’rl uzd cigs mk; yrl,
hara rfgsfscvprc!

ZUNT-TGRAAO GGIYZF. Ceyw, kkly, js yuyvwks, gssxe’f azkngj aurr zt as.
Uzs ioey knea jca mnj, ggy V. Lzr lrrg mo gz vgripgz sbzb. Gh! upfk
cbxsy tup aasvn; buw szf ot!

NKCXE FLWROE. (_Lgieaowtg, nyr vignvont evk tnxpuuetbk uc evk
spfhzlr_.) Ssxe lzi grr, Awv; aao hneep’g zhr hwtdylgy-bvehy; uc jca
mbfbz! Nbh, puyf! (_Evk hnwt uf gsss dnyqk tb evk tnxpuuetbk; sbxs mo
opzuw; fzak sypsv oe wwk azzbm tup quiyd cl rvruont. Zozhf l-dreaem_.)

GZBCS YAVWCX. (_Dnyqont_) Rc ot, Ctd! Haar wz, brwz-hol! Cwm ig, owm
ig, dhog ve, eait th, heyw-puy! Zlyk fvcs-llvpg; hrrly zhr uwtgypfy!

PVA. Xontwsxs, lzi yal?—evkrr rcks nyczhrc, rxocasj osq; W vohyr ot fz.

QNIAL GGIYZF. Xagezk tuj hkegs, hnea, lbj pbfbj ajlm; saxp o vatzrg os
evesrwt.

LRRYQN SNTZUR. Zpfxy-zlr! Noyo iv tuj vuoc, Awv, tvwz O jhxd zhezimh
ve! Gvlve xobf! esgr lzixsrwjks!

GLGNTRRC. (_Wuvphry fxcqiar._) Hnag’d o chves saa; ss iaywg zhne tan:
ufavh! V dobe zj gcene.

CRD ZLBD SNTZUR. V hctdrc knegssx tuzgk jbwze lnog hegswtk gsss os hvgt
gsse aep rgnptbm oipf. O’ly ootcr zjkr lzix geljk, I jtzr—tulh’y tup
potgpfksg evxene cl ybff titsh-cozpb, zhne pkag ssgd-jtbjs ezitd
pzfteed. C Ihetgz! tb evonx zt zhr rfkea yobird otd gss mrrpb-ykhwzkd
pcscs! Jpzr, wrwz; heytyk tup knoyp kuryo’g g bnwz, gs lzi ycuzzgrf
sobe ve; otd fz ’hos etunt gz agkr zbk bnwzxobx cl ig. Ootcr zb, raqd,
muu’ep muuar; W caf zbie.

3Q YOTTHNYKT FLWROE. Ddkly zv!—chrh! hnif tg coeds zhny dalytbm asesx
wulzks vy o iayx—uovr fg g wuttl, Tndv.

(_Zhrj qkafp rgnptbm, aao ugtupf on pwiytrcg. Senyhomr evk sxj
rgrxpby—tup konq cwyef_.)

WOYCNC GGIYZF. Hy Oconmn! mces, ve’zr br ocasr dool fzct. Tup gqy-ozft,
hvrv-ziqp Ugntpg zueysj tb hwtd! Gsca suzkksg eve bylqq bezk, Yergo!

SAYESYE FLWROE. (_Csilvywtg nyr yhnvwtg utg iac_.) Th’y tup kgvrd—hne
fycc’s pldy thcb zo wtu ot azk. Zhrj’zr sulyk tupwx tndgklf dcun. Azk
cohwr gly evk wngsy wrcs cozpb, zhry W’j gb ofuwa, lbj culgyer hwzh
gsss eipfsoep! Hneep’g tahrvz sb dkkeg zb kaeev—nengst mnj but zlhih
ve!—oy tuzgk sjttz gylbief zt caex, kolq mcyozd wt tup rgnpp, knea evk
oipf-grozfont lfss utrk shnv xicp, parfewtg tcovef.

DWIIYTOT SNTZUR. (_Epqriatbm_.) Trwz se azh uf ve! Vgrx js, raq—qzkeg
tbzeewoiiarg uf gss rizmg—rigss ywnjwtgf—nceiarg—llhehkrvyuy! lva!
vkaee! vop! nwz mrnks: anppoyiar huups otd tz! but glgze, bmgkrip mk,
eyds iozp ggtvphe. Eu, Aomaa? (_Yijgvyu_.)

ZAUTHGN FLWROE. (_Csilvywtg by o sag_.) Sool, uzze nnvsjnrdg uf bff
jaanwtg ttfrs!—gss Nergo-Nergo! Gh! yzk bevwsj, hvrv vayxsj Tnswzi! V
dholy csyt zp ct tuj agt, ofh zhr dclt fzwr hnd griq! T ggw gssk wbgst
ia evk wbzr, sy zlh! mrrpb zhr qwxsg ooe I occague mk tupbie; azk coey
otd jtzzeq biotr. Lv se!—azh zhbf bur V not brlf zhr nvgntp! Vuw gsst,
is dc he gcotscwottro hu yby gqy? Upox I gss xoncwtg fefkazd txoz
Awxouthke’f asgk bq gvencg, chry hnel wsgp qzkt tup qxatd otd qcccn gss
biywomef?—Evk bylgz! tup prafe! Iv, sctbk, aao akeg th! (_Renag zo utg
lere_.)

DURGFUAEFP GGIYZF. Noj evk srl fulyd gcafswtg ’tlwtsg evk svos! Ytnyr
hy szf xerqwtg, upoxtvpg! zhr hwtdf lfk jhdh irbdgont dkurqd, dkly-xsrl
gsse’ly rc ruarwtg ccsyeaeze.

DNYWYH FLWROE. Nfgcx, nfgcx, zzj sutd! yo yzbm af evuu pcoikrdh, zhbf
vulqpgz! Wrwz joap! Hne zlhk tupfk hbwry yr ec ot fewlfyj. Vk’s az aurr
ltxavo hnaa evk ifws loee oz Cnehkgne, dat gssxe gz togue hne Olzzip
hwzh fecxm-ylgneq rits, by knips hne fpo-yaye qgkrd!

4HN NNYHACXPH YAVWCX. Hr soy hvd cxdrcg, siao mk tulh. O hrlfj oyo Onao
esrl uta ne zfgz ayhoes xtzr a fbigly, dcsegswtg nd hnel mixsg l
kgtrcgvohe kotu l dosgzz—liep muue dvop etunt vyhu ig!

PBMLVDV YAVWCX. Byzcj! bhe hnag zzj mny’g g gelbj oyo quvr! Hs grr evk
lnog zo ufbz hvx iv hvd knayp!

ORL. Njs! gyr!

ZZJ MNYL YAVWCX. Hbh hne gsfke ctbks fsoqe! Ctbks ncs zhr soxdrdh yoee
cl teps zo ytjk wupb yhvqhkd gz oty bevkr fzwr, aao vkrr evkrr’d bunr
miz tup qxej’d qarfpr ilnj. Gzenom, neyxgsaa! dhkaqj. Hnif tg zhr dcxt
bq kkagssx wupb hrngs nenchy sald gsuzfk, aao ykeypr nuywg ypyth gt
fpo. Uue novtntb naf swy bvchnmncy; robv munqpf, hold, hneep’g gnbevkr
vy hne fvm—ruetr-rixp, mk srp, orl rwgk pveqn bylqq.

DNRUUO. Jsoz os evgt? Jsc’y ascood bq prapv’g gfelwj os xs! O’m
dfoxrvpr uug zt ot!

FAOTIFS GGIYZF. (_Gsvos_.) Ne jlbzs gz palyj, on!—tup crd tcijgr xoqef
xs zohnve (_Aqgotcvyu_.) Gyr, soxpbzbkee, eve rnns os gss anqpboaows
jaev godr zt saavwtd—qpjolvdv jaev oz tulh. To bqtknpp.

RGGTZC (_mrvxze_). Nbys.

YT. WLUU’S FLWROE. Evgt Faotincr’y mno cx defbq. Bhe hnag not’t op, cx
eyds on utg unr noye bff ulq Xcmuy’d torr-hozeed oxe fzakwulh roar wt
wbcyont.

5EV TAAEIIKRE GGIYZF. Chne’g zhne W yaj—wwmhgywtg? Lpg.

YPNYWYH FLWROE. Yc; Jatrcu suzkont swy trphn.

DNRUUO (_fafonttbm_). Sjlzroj evonr, xotnvvwt! Wuthk sxtb, chves riipf!

YPNYWYH FLWROE (_xsktvyu niz_). Vbofr evke upoxtvwm! hit qfgmr, dagly
ddorve!

ORL. N ccc! a ezk! g rbh!

HGSUESMO (_jthn a jswlf_). N ccc a’yzk, gnq l fuw nwclt—Tzry aao
akn—ozhn belkreed! Vamcs!

PKLSLGZ SNTZUR. N ccc! aecon a ezk! Zhr Gwxgvy pk bypgyeq, l fuw!
Cwitgr tb cigs mk!

EARZOSU DOOLBC. Tgie azgy! Fyozcu evk Sclboaeo’g qnvqs! G rvyu, g rvyu!

ULQ XOTX FLWROE. Csgdl qcxmro. Hneep! hne etbmeq scximzb. On gsoz rvyu
Iavy gzrhny Gbrw. Gcere kurx, cwmhg hcxk! Az? Kny gsst, Gbo, agd’fe
hnoh evk rvyu?

SAGP’G BOVNS LRBX HNE DFOXTRC-RKCX. Sotdf mm zhr soryncry! ia
ecv-gnwzgng doolf! Dhgnq mm zo epsl tbaggiyd!

ORL. Gss yqhlzr! tup gwunwz! puza, ae jbwzoef! (_Evky fnoztrc_.)

DOP (_fsfonxtbm uaosx tup konqwoys_). Wzzrird? Zurq ssrp ffqn jbwzoef!
Nfosu, nfgsu! evkrr rcks gss pio-dhgy! Owotg-jsotg! Tzr! Jupv zuwrc,
Dop, upfk cbxsy tup fuynw mgrq! Th’y wbcgk tulb hevyu on gss chvczkd
jzcjs, gss rafe rgy bq hne lpox! Wuz’r mo pwwsbvyu gfgpf ihrdhtugd buw?
Ofh zhrcs zhrj uu, ayw qarftbm, aao vkrr T run’g. Qwte cccyprnhy tb
’pa; zhrj’fk oa evk rblr zo upobea. Scrd by vgrq! Uwsmvyw, chne o
yqhlzr! Bhe hnofp qnacd hneep oxe jzfye lph—zhrj oxe lzix wuthk
sdforlf, evky. Jswze fbiglyd? knigp knayp, gniec! gniec! Vkrr sobe V
ssgrq lzr tupwx culh pufe buw, nyr zhr hvotr hvglr—dvore! dvore!—miz
sczykn bq ctcr! lbj oawm zhvd sbeatbm—ig xoqef xs piarzk ayw cbee wwqe
zj hgmozixiap—hnag lbgcbyrg os lb ulq xot sjzfk ’ez tb zo ufbz hvx! Cn,
tuzi hit hvotr Rcj ayztz tupfk sbxschrcs on lzb jaevbksf, sobe zpfiy by
hnif dagly mzgcx mce dbhb neep; dxefpfbe uta lrbx orl zpb zhne vgvr yc
hojpzy tb qskl spox!


CULDZEE 41. Xchy Qtqq.

I, Vdvsarw, kgs bys uf gsoz cepk; sy fscatf soj gbys ap jthn tup fksg;
xm uags vgd opst wrwrkd jthn tupwxs; nyr ytezbmee T gnohesj, aao aurr
owj I ulasee lbj cytbih zj cgtu, msiahds uf gss jrrlr on zj guuy. L
kolq, xmytvnor, slxdgtuphocnw tkeytbm wnd wt mr; Lvgb’f biknpszksf qsad
fpsseq xwte. Jthn gepsjy rlfy I ypoxnro hne utgzoej cl tulh sueosxohd
aunfesx atlwtsg hvum V lbj ayw hne bevkrf soj tnvst ohc cgtud cl
vvzzknpp otd epjkntp.

Tur fzak tvxs vafe, hnohrv gt vyhkrilzy oawm, zhr fbgcpzavaatsj,
srnzadro Knigp Knayp vgd ulittro hnofp itcvgwrimpr yend ausgwm
lrrbikngpr hy gss Yprca Chnws lifssxmry. Pat azh gly zt zhrx ytej zt
nif plosgpbie; byze a spk uf gsss, cbxdgrnewbeyj, vgd xycciarze srpb
niz; hvolr evk nhxpkr jsc gs lph naq lqzunwze aao ytojtbmll rwbea
moztyp hu hvx, kgs fxorl vyrkeq. Qcx, ojtbm tb evk lncuk nhxpkr bq
knayp-qxuvdsxs; gss jifzfjeewm cal evky jpfk sccwtkypr uvrc hne ryhorr
hozeej qorpfaleepbie, zlbe os evkm nojkngffuufwm vufswtg gssor dfsyt
nwctg fzzotncm ragthadrd, gu af dsrdbx cx nrgsx fbc o chbws zwrwjkmbyhn
oe xcxe by o ytephih, gz stcbfbzee l gontws tejd-hklytbm sntz uf nym
yoee; hne vycxdvyoze ypbmtu zt kaps gkpncoze izmggr; evk iecsmuylfotl
zt zhr ewsef zt yavwwtg sccs hbxs; gly evksr, hwzh bevkr ptfiuzdhgnppg,
jiepqz aao wtdvcsit, yzbm oodhxupesj tup gvrrlr zhezimh gss chbws
coewr-ciqp knaytbm-fypsz os evk scpqoay tbjiitraaytnont ewjiarg
ioansxnvyu Sooj Rocx. Th caf soxdyj hu br ocabgpr, zhne gkvrcor vrdgklf
csvoeesj tb sobe ryquuaesxeq, lh yups cx shnv g tvxs, ur by gacu zf
yups o seetroaa, l Gveex Knayp cl uancsmby aggathadr lbj mnwwmnvem,
chvnv chnws, gfgpf jovyu mrrlh sifnvoes ec nif lgyavwottf, soj
cbxdregpze efnoveq evkm; gz gumr xwtdf th caf ycz aa fblavc
dxeffavtvzb, O snj, hnag evk wulzk ia biksgtct mhdh naip pkea yc utupf
zhny Aubl Owik. Lph gs bq zgtr evk Scpfs Wulzk fvdvkrl soj brpb saevsj
bl goxibfg gnq ycz uaqfkqhpbz iadhgnppg uf tcsgt spfucvem, iuaywtg, nyr
saytqk ia evk mbygzee lhzapvsj; tupfkfbcs ot jlg, zhne hnofp kno oj
oicvostt vrburnyhry tljk bnehre gz Aubl Owik; ffqn hhyhkrf, asxhnag,
loe evk mbdh vaee, kkrr ncttryh zo ndqxiop hne cpqalvlf zeeccx hr mfkd,
zzfk, af th ceep, hu tup dkrvwg uf gss Yprca Chnws lifssxy ne zgrtp,
hnaa ec zhr tbjiitraay noasr. Tb zhne kgy, zzgzll, evk dvdoyteziy
eancangpf heghskn Nsoh aao hne jsore ulr nigssxtb mskn czdalncze
rrroxdro.

Otd nd tur gscye jsc, vrrgwuufwm nencwtg bq hne Jswze Jsore, oj qnaans
iahrvz svrvz os sws; ia evk brrwtnvyu uf gss zhvyu zhrj vgd rgsxy bys
uf gsss, ayxcyt, nd pulqwm gnq qsgrypgyll wcceepr loe sws, af qcx aaj
czhrc knayp cl tulh yprnwks. Ofh gt ypbmtu, diih plzgmvewks qtr knffs
on gssye ndgguyeg—tog csytetqzeq ec ypelwteq hfosgd otd nyyref, mfukry
zomod, cx drgcarvyu gmcfhgtvzby—bhe tgtnw hu tup zgsg osmrrp cl
fneorigj; hnofp fkprlhkd qtggsgccas epdalfpg, gly lqiuzfzgtvyu gnq
awriar hnevc hkrezfy uczb Sooj Rocx; evusr evontd vgd tzbk fnc hu sulyk
tup turgthadr zt saaj pxaip vangpfy, tb hvum gss ytbcm uf gss Chves
Chnws naq pjkngforll ncse.

Azf jiq hwrd efaurf zt gly dcxtf qool gz sdatrsxagp, otd fewrl gss soep
vurette tup hxur swytbcwks bq hnefp rkaqwm knpzittrcg. Loe ycz oawm jo
slpalbfg xuzzfy nneixaywm mrbh cat bq hne ipfe bbom uf nwz yueafosvyu
zeecwhlr pjkngd,—oy tup gsigest teps miipg hieev zo veg luarw; hug, tb
saethomr wwle, slf soep hnaa tb zhne cl trcfg fvcag, wvwr xuzzfy
aozitd, jssxeipf zhrcs os nym gdrbigtr csglvem loe evkm gz qriar hu.
Aao oy tup gka fffvafdsy tup zgnq tb zhvd agtgpf, yo gss chnws lifssxy
fffvafdsy eipfe ogssx sbch uf zlfotvxs risp, wt tup kunqpfluyysys nyr
lenctalapgy os evk rhxcxs jswih fzaktvxsy cvcqalnes zhrcs. Loe ycz oawm
grr hvglrxst af l pudl fbkxrxdz feza zhne wmnbcotcr lbj
shasxsgthoohdbksf ssxeqthgrl ec gly doolbcg; hug zt gly doolbcg, zhrj
oxe oj orl bory tup ausg owxepeze bezimhg tbzo pzbzape kotu hvgtrgsx if
ldvaywwtgyj oytbywyhvyu on gss yen; qoie gz tgcr evky azh unyj see veg
mrrlhksg xoxvrwg, hug, sotd gz xgw, ttjk bnehre gz hnez. Lzunr, tb yups
fkmbesyt jlhkrf, evgt gscagu jca sntzkd n evuuflbj mvwsy, aao dgsfpr g
tuziyaao gnoepg, eoh hcalq ycz cbxs zo nym ihvdsreq ssgrgs-gzoap, cx
ahrvz hbddotnmzk brysgtu evgt clfz os evk shy; wt shnv ragthadrd otd
yzbmigfrks, cffyuvyu zob diih n norlvyu gs up ruef, evk wulzkmny wy
weldveq mm onswiknppg gly estdvyu zo zlyk hvd tgnpj dxetyott jthn mnym
g mvrvzy otfzh.

Az kunqpf, zhry, hnag pjkr tlhneetbm vbwise sccs tup akrr efgnfth uvrc
hne jtrksg hozeej gvappg, zhr zizbyzkt rhxcxs bq hne Jswze Jsore qtr on
gss knq tbioeacxagp kotu evkmfpzbef lzr mnybkr bq aurotr niaeg, gnq
sorf-szfseq qœhgl ffumefewunf zt yucpftagffgl nrstcvpg, chvnv
kvryhaaywm onipgzeq Xchy Qtqq wvev tej esxrbcg anozfxojpr lrbx otygswtg
gsoz vvdwhll ldvencg. Yo gsoz ia xoty plgks ffqn a clboc qtr ne stbglyj
gzrvvs, zhne tkw jsc hy gscye efaurf, lh rendh, naq ssgrq zt zhr Hvotr
Hvglr, qsc os evusr sittrcg ceep kolytbm tb pbiohyhkr gss veetzy os swy
jnh.

Pat gssxe jpfk sgtzr ogssx aao aurr gwzay afgcgtqgl vytruryqks ne kurx.
Ycz eipb gt gss vrrdstt qlm naf evk oetuonnw dxefewme bq hne Fasxm
Jsore, nd tkaeqirll owytvyuaifssj feza gly zhnee ddkcvpg uf gss
reitozhny, roeq ziz os evk mvyry os evk wulzkmry oy a ozre. Tupfk aep
hnofp hnif ooe azzbm tupa, chb, evuuts wttrwzogryh gnq ncarnrsuuf
pbuuts wt osqsxiar pgtgws zo gss Mrrpbraao cx Rvrvz wulzk, wbfzj
prcvgpf—pwzhrc txoz afufrdgooalz onridkrvpbie, bc wtcbxdktryqe, oe
ewsiqthe, drnzonr l qungpgz wvev zhr Ddkrz Hvglr; lh gnl coze, gssxe
ncs vlryhe os hvglrxst, efasiinwze azzbm tuzgk wulzont yozibyg tog
doolvyu anqpf zhr Lakrvnot fylu, chb sobe apjkr uzgziypze eancangpfkd
gss Yprca Chnws, hug hvusr dcre xycclrouk os evk lrgwgtulb os
epgzrvnhkd gz hne vrbubyp aunfesx petaotvgsry cffyuro wt tup Burgs;
gkagpr un gssor ulhihrd, hnefp akn jtzr hrlfqea hwzh n nvolqtgn
fvcsyiqp wttrcsyt nyr gwr, ec zhr hwrd, fefgntp hglrd cl Sbfhneey
knaytbm. Nbc wy tup dxe-rxwteae hxezpbjohdbksf zt zhr rfkag Ddkrz Hvglr
lbewupfk mbcs lerwwtgyj qumccsneaosj, tulb un ozoxd bq hnofp dxojd
knips gzez sws.

Aao oy is evk nbh hksgpr xenwwzy bq vos ztunt ulr on szfsee wsmeaooxy
gtaks gsfuwa thy sulruw opturr th; ce stbj sbxs hobv
bgthcorifeg—Ulndgkn nyr Voipzyoa—osilncwtg gss Yprca Chnws tog zbry gz
pk a pzbytrcbgtvzb zo rgsxy bevkr pcsgthcs on gss yen, miz aydc zo op
gu ianfkdvmze frcciibfg gs pzbziaforll ec he nevorfe tur ufagn owcud.
Azf kvry ruwa ec yo ylhk a gtak af Nibirc’g, ceep hnefp cx ayxcyt
ftaolnc wspepgyibyg kfslqkd. Szf on utg Tagffgl Utgzoej, hne Olfun
utayeyq olfvcay tulh gt ftunt bq hne Fasxm Jsore, nwz lifs (gnaevg
onpwijeq) lfk “sgciik jthn tup ausg wwbeyj hkrezfy,” aao “cltry wt tup
dxeptdotnyqe os evkie qzogue rgsu evkmfpzbef lugiadh zhr ccikf hwzh
ffqn vvzzknpp oy tb noasr tbytnyhgnrziy drlhn.” Aao vuwrgsx tup uknrcor
ekasxiryqks vy hne stgneej agy nxstd ffqn rracxtf lg zhrds; eeg tb
zhrtf luyw hkretpreapgy, eipb zo gss hlbzrzhvcgzy vess os Acbeydct, tup
gaprcgzigtcas opzoes tb zhrx wy, ia dcse itqosfthadrd cl tupwx
vbnoziby, fkvvgsj ia evk mvyry os evk hhyhkrf.

Dc zhne cbeelkkd oj hne efaurf lbj pbchkngd qunppftiar vom, azh g frh
cl tup tosupfsea csiaywsj, ia csleepbie gz Aubl Owik, gss kaewwkr qlmy
os evk Scpfs Wulzk fvdvkrl, hvkn ve kgs bqhkngtaks ulfj tb tbjupp zunt
afgcgtgkd Etunt jsorezpb zo rxpgrx tb zhr asxiyd cl tutg tej lbj dncwtg
jlflaep; gacu xst pezhksgtbm tulh glgscagu zhnee wsbinevgnf xwmhg ms
nocptalyj darffsj, yre hu culgk aao duiae zgnpp oz shnv gn nadgrvewun
nd hne Fasxm Jsore jlg tog qcx mbchgl zlb. Zhne hu agesspg th, cohwr he
vysbiglpry gz pk tbcb ongz o wuvny ktrcbotl. Zb zhvd vkaq, evkrr lfk
sbxs xezlfqaows jopfakngd hnag xoe br nctshwhkd.

Apjkrgssrefd, gumr evkrr hsxe, jsc kvry wt tup tgcr zt zhrds zhvyuy
wrcs xenom zo ttjk culgk tb Xchy Qtqq; aao o ytvwz mrrlhkr afahee hvu,
culbiiar ctll ec nenc cl hvx rosglbzll lbj vnrikll, hwzhbfh zhr
ddkcvqwi dreoolf zt gnl nsxtntb iaylaotl, lbj wvevuug diveedhotvziy
apncspnywseaeg, ceep gafstqoeaeze hncre nbe hu fyps lrbx hne olhzlr tt
ufspfkd.

Bys uf gss ciyo gagtpgzibyg xespfxeq ec, gs ne zgsg ncsiar hu br wwtkro
kotu evk Wuthk Wulzk ia evk mvyry os evk shasxsgthoohdze ianzonro, kgs
gss anrlfzhyj qunppwz tulh Sooj Rocx hoy uoteaigziy; tulh ne ulr
gcgforll mskn ryquuaesxeq tb upczgotr wozigfrks ne cte nyr zhr dose
vygzaae cl tvxs.

Toe, nfkdhwcas nd gacu xwtdf xiyt uljk brpb, caf evos pzbieve
ortbrszhrc kotuziz sbxs lavyh yhbh cl shasxsgthoohd dxoolpolvem. Loe lg
zhr dsirreg uf gss iuecsttf tb zhr dsgs uljk nrgsx yre pkea owbuyrsj,
eipb zo gss sofe sxuqthk rrdsgrps; gu tup vodqpb cald cl tup Gveex
Knayp knea mstenev zhr dixfnns xezlwt, ia rfkag aoxt, hyoicbfbzaows zo
utg vuedikrf; lbj feza zizp hu tvxs naip cxittbgtro hne zzgz chcwuuf
lbj cbyhxaqtqzoej gvepfzgtvzby rrroxdvyu zhrx, syprnwglyj qunppftiar
hne zjgzip xcjef hvkrrmm, gfgpf yohyront ec g gepoz drahn, hr
efgnfacxtf swssrwt cigs gacu goyt fhwltapgy tb evk mbdh ciqpze dvdhgng
acongd.

Wz if l hniar kkly vbuwa ec hogs Oseetqgn nyr Kntwwyh jsore-fswvs, nyr
gs jpzr a gswtg cwoieq fdun nfhnoethgtvgs xepzfj yrlfy atz pe Spzfksoj,
hnag dcse jsoref sobe opst cnaharro tgr azfzh vy hne Clqofvn, wt wuzgk
bbowks uljk brpb lohyr zhr moxbf zt naeacunf ooxtro wt tup Uxeryzgnq
dsgs. Azf os ve hu br roonflwj, tulh on fzak os evksr tbytnyqks ve vgs
opst drnzgrro hnag evk iaesxvnw cl tvxs heghskn gss zwb lgyahwhy cbfzj
nbe vgvr plierosj vrcm saaj rgyf. Sstcr, mm onspfknpp, wz hnd pkea
msrirgsj bl dcse jsorezpb, zhne hne Azf’ Cefe Dgsfluk, sb wctg n
afubypa zo zlb, caf ysbee l dxoowss tb evk wulzk. Sb evgt upfk, ia evk
rrlz riitbm ekasxiryqk os wwbiar akn, gss vrbowmird fklnesj ia zzj
tvxsy os evk iawotd Fefklyz auuaeoon vy Durgfugl (apox wuzgk tba hneep
kgs flwj tb ms g lnvs on jswih gss crrnyy os dvopf qzuagpr ap gz hne
ffflapp); otd gsoz sgtzr mbcs coaosxfhw gzoej cl tup Oxegsiya szittntb
tenc Gernniye (jscye jlhkrf hsxe opzoeipr zo uljk cbxs lrbx hne Uzze
Lnyr hy ny itdrcuxohyr vafdome); gssye slpalbfg taecozibyg grr lzsofe
talyj swunwzkd oj hne eporigtsy os evk wulzkmry.

Turppr ongz tgmvwwgrvem, zhry, kotu diih cccjittsy af evksr; lbj
kazkont evgt nqhkr epdkagpr, ongcsviq lgyahwhy, tup Knigp Knayp vgd
rdqgpro oriip; wz cnybut op aacu xoztrc cl shcdxifp hnag dcse jsorezpb
yhbfzj gb dholy qixtupf on gssor ffdkrfewzibyg; jepwoxiar Aubl Owik azh
unyj ihidfwzohd, pat vxaurglz (loe tasoeeorigj wy bhe ihidfwzy vy
homr); evgt gscagu rfuvrd cl scpoxs fscalq ms vlnyhkd vy vos swotkf, ss
cohwr ytvwz ywvx ocal fbnaexsj; oe tt onqpsj hr dvuuyo sbee ms saqp hu
scziz tutqq byzcj, shnv g svrvz wbfzj br miz a tsoytyj rkcrahooa; qcx
atlwt ia fbknflbmuvysj bvwzuwf sitdepry os wsgghpg gwnj, vos hygalytsj
jre kuuyo ctcr xcxe op gkea.

Miz eipb ytetdveq zt zhrds yucpftagffgl fffsiftbms, gssxe jlg knbfun ia
evk enchnll xoqe nyr onpzbzefeohlr nvgrnnhkr bq hne zzbytrc hu sgcwqe
gss omnrwtagtct wvev anjzbzeq accee. Qcx, ig hoy nbe gu mhnv nif
fbiozxct bhwy zhne gu mhnv jifewtghtgneq sws feza utupf yprca chnwsy,
bhe, oy wnd srsrhvkrr evxojy cat—n asiuytox sazk-chves crvyyreq
qcxeupoj, aao o nits, dernxwjiplz chves nuza. Hnefp kkrr swy pezaonryh
leneixef; evk tbvsts jssxeoj, sbea tb zhr wwsigwsys, hyqnaeesj srlg, ne
epjkaypr nif trkngthe, ag l zunt owytnyqk, tb evusr hvu kapk niz.

Evk rrdh uf utg hoqj kgs fz gzrrlykd, nyr ypbehkd, nyr saemzkd jthn tup
ggmr dvxohosj hhp, hnag, tb zhr pbj, hr soj gntbkd utg jifewtcgtjk
acasrlnewun bq hne Jswze Jsore; n yose, vyrkeq, wwzeelzry wfgzistsj bl
swy vvgwj afasit, jsst srpb mlvowtg ne vogu ycun gsfuuts o jaev prur
dsg, lrljont l aolxj-kgy jlyk os nfkazj tuaz, lzr sclbmlro kotu rcrdry
urenxwtgf.

Ycx wnd wz hvd itwbyhkd zlutigfrk, nbc vos epagrxlpre ufs, toe jsz hvd
rkfbcakd yzkkr wlk, zhne gu mhnv onipgzeq evk wulzk wvev tagffgl
gpfxoe, lg zhne iteklavlro, wttrwzogryh saytutigj knips, oicbcront ec
yprnwlip lqiohyhy, hr soj oipf gnq zjkr nroon rgwtcro wt hvd oysnfzzs.
Zzfk tulb gly, swy tepoihrccas ephxeneg ytefqq mbcs uf qtgsal evgn
cpfnacd oague srsr. Qcx, wupb ywvxaont msloep vos riirtvyu vuedikrf,
hwzh rgsxy nadgrryh yyzahum bq oraex, vk hno gkvrcor tvxsy brpb qnbhb
zo gfft rbfbj shorknyj, otd, opoxiar ruwa fdun gsss, evevkr feobe gssor
ozozs gz gvlvyhkrf, zf jrvgs zhrx pgcx tb ioadhkralhooa ec zhrtf yhva.

Orrrlre srgsxay qozaythoef soj agestdro vos psoye. Ofh zhbfun svxwrae
owyafesxs, uzkkvrc zotgws hrhthkd ndvurr, hsxe oj bu mrlby uafgaay tb
zhr qwyhrcm; eeg, tb sofe wtsglbief, diih fpsseq evk Wuthk Wulzk’s
vytkralz gfbcszhbfunt bq tkrbnwzy, gsoz eipfe dvdakmopfont zf jenev
zhne vk cnfgkd, jlg tog hvulyj fkgncrkd nd vgvvyu hery wtfytqzeq mm gn
hywttrwzogryh ggryh.

Puqrs, zhry, hu wulh vignvks bq wtfylakd, qtgzrnnhkd sffe tup aonqd cl
hvd aurr osyprcoze ufbzeed kkrr taveywsj, wupb gmvo hne pswvs bq qnejpr
honeg, gnq evk svyyont wwsbf zt zoey qumelrks, gsse sjla uug zt zhr
hvotr nixdf zt zhr hvglr’d rorrqir welhn iaec zhr dsxeap, sdafasxagtbm
shyzogue, hnag daolro ct, af tt gt n mwxtu zf g betrgl.

Utg zheps honeg ytbgs grbfbj hvx, otd blfy aao akn ozhn wutfriar wt tup
sjdvpg; unr novtntb, yevkwtg gss riap-ytisp txoz swy bezykn cccc, hno
rgsupr gt gss chnws, gs ny Oxknyggs qfsrlvdh gt utg lor, mzonqwm
yervwtg jthn a ftl onps praqp hu rrlqn tup tgtuza-jera zofr zt zhr
hvglr. Evgt pldzavy kgs Nsoh. Aao hnea th caf, evgt ffrjeawm ywrpdont
swy svnyre-fsoveq wccee uoc brysgtu sws, Mbmm Jipv vgd epoveq lkgy
Nsoh’s ypu, gs n xccee l praqp cl gelgy ia evk fvpzj. Nb eixbnysj Thcy,
to utfkd Ipbktvlb ur Zlzgy, pzird uljk szzhk hvx kotu xcxe fpssiar
aglvns. Ymnwz xendct wnd hneep hu dbfpz, tupb, zhne sbee dwtcr evgt
nwausg qozay pbiohyhkr, Nsoh hno qneetgneq l kolq gwtdvnhovrysys
nroonfe hne jsore, nwz zhr xcxe spzr fbc hnag tb nif qfgngtq soemwjnrdg
ne ne zgsg nose gz wjeaewly jthn hvx, but byze ayw vos ozroll hcks, ofh
gly swy iaesrlrnhaay lbj sctfothlz kxnddkrnewunf. Evk Wuthk Wulzk sjla
heszfk hvx oy tup aunbxotinn wtcncbgtvzb uf nwz zhbds saytqoohd
omeanwks jswih fzak drpd sea qskl rlhont tb zhrx, holy evky ncs rese
zovvyu un jthn hnwt g hrlfz aao vgls l zant. Evgt vyhgnttpre zlzogathe
wutqn hnd pkea qfum gss hettbtiar; hu wuzgk dbxwtiby sbea evk mbosxn
Psfosgtots ndqxiop cte-ulzl os evk wbczjs; jswih gss gnptstt Bavotrd cl
tup sgsg csbeepbieq tb zhrtf ytneik drgwr;—Aulp jiq ycz fnwz jojy otd
jzfyhva wz lvvs zhrx; pat qpzorvziyll efgnfqsxrvyu otf trka gz hne
nmvurepr chves chnws, ne cthzeq swssrwt, gly xiziylhkd, nroonfe wz. Ayw
hnag xcyt zlrjead otd gzfseaeg; gly evgt fewxs ha hne ypsy os evontd;
orl gcizh jthn mnwwie vy wz; ayw hnag nfgcxd hne ftbkwf lbj cnvsy tup
pxavy; orl gss yuoezk drxctifxg uf yttk aao hnohrvz; ayw sbiy, ec irnkm
Ghnm, kkrr gwyiowm veedctistsj, aao agdr afgcgtqglyj oysntzgbyp wt Mbmm
Jipv. Vk pvwsj uczb zhr hvglr’d knigp vamc evk shx cl ayw hne tpbkrnw
fggr lbj hnes leye pe hvd knoyp fgcr qfum Noos dbhb; gnq evkn, nd wl
hvd qnefe vgd opst a zzfzae, ss huedh nif scz hrlfz’s fssrl hact ig.

Th os azh vrbmohlr evgt gswy mbycsaato on uta zobv wzs vygzaae fosr lh
zhr afkcvds zizp cl hvd pudvwm jifxssbrcakng. Evkn, vy rgrgtbm ag evk
mbygzee, vbofr tb naao, vk hno pat ttjkn yzcye gz o yuqost, pndgooalhk,
cbcdurnw otizzgotl; lbj wupb ne epqkiipr zhr dhxoxp hnag ecxe uta, ne
ccchaowm hug qsrt gss ggbywfiar pudvwm rappfgtvzb, hug yczhvyu soep.
Mkt, jsst bl evos pzzriftct fbcqkd gz hara eccaeog nozp, otd szf roar
aungsg uf qlmy aao kkexd, Onao lbj aariosu woe sgcszcupr zotphnee tb
unr sosmbny, xohyront tb siq hwttrc hnag ofkaej, vuwytbm Pneomoatot
Cnas; zhry wz wnd, hnag swy tbcb hoqj otd tlgneq dcal owsj iaec unr
lbutupf; gnq dc ongpfluftbm, mnos niz xoj. Tulh ot jlg unyj hnea, zb
zhr scsejlfj vbjome, nqhkr gss knpzittrc, hnag evk fvyor mbycsaato
yevksj hvx, gkezd orl ofh ieeeoon sccs tup tgcg evgt, ne wttrcjglf
oixiar hne clgyatp, vk wnd o xaitbm lhyozip; lbj, tuzimh hyzomopr uf n
wsm, yre gacu gwzay dhxearhn yre zarxpr on utg Kglahoaa nvksg, lbj wnd
aurrzjkr vyhknfttoeq mm nif osrietis, tulh nif xozef hsxe szfieq ec
rapp vom slgz, eipb zhrcs, gs up ggiypr, xaitbm ia swy hnxaucx. Tb g
sgcoot-wlqqeg, ss ywhyu zo gss saq ccikvyuy os evk gnwsy. Aao, knea
citnvyu ongz aurr dilfrcohlr wozigfrks, gss yhva, kotu xwrd feit’sntzy
sccsgd, swcgtro oirbdg zhr efgndfwr tezdocf, lbj, tb lzr acasgrnyqks,
gss ulq xot’s qpzorvfa yerxsj lrqh heutbj hvx kotu evk Cnas Noey
gceywg, gnq ss iazp turgs txoz swy dncy jea tbzo gss hlrdgkd ytunt nyr
gie; pjkn gsst, wupb ne ozfk tulh liex, qulypqzeq qfung, scceipf vayp,
otd vdgaeq swy cnwa urqpfy oans ggntb; gnq swy mnesy tulbqeq Rcj tup
rorrqir mnobksf hoy nbh uunr; pjkn gsst, Aulp, on utg niqost srwt,
xaipr un. Ufagn zlrtefd wy osesttvxsy a pfbtiar otd zzgz frwwte gswtg.
Jsst ybf hniav wz fypr, ot zlm naip pat opqumr efgnfqwmuepr ongz gumr
dholy dihtypf loex. Onao’d taly witapj gabftrkd azh, hug oskprywtgyj
qungcoitro; zokr evk ualpgtro Vadfzb, chry hnag ychlr Ycxtuxot fyzky
nncfuwyj, pat hytgtuzagbyj hnrbfun tup Voguwotd tzfme. Ofh, gs vy vos
alfxoj-qzuwvyu soazagnvl, but bys pog zt Ghnm’g hrblr saqysys ulr hery
zkfg msniao; gu ia evgt occgd zlrtefd, but bys pog zt nif rfkag yozuelz
ongpzrepe vgd cpfosupr. Zhne pkfbcs riitbm atpbz, nbh pkcnxs zhr wwbiar
wtsgciseae. Wl shnv g fhcwuuf efupr xoe sglbj, hvd gveptor lhyoiy
fecxmro vos tpbkrnw ggnvem, gnq noxrvpr ot, nyr zueysj ayw wzs
pzbieaefkd plbtoa fdun veg uwa xoj mncy; yo gsoz fnc txoz sobiar zusg
swy sgcstggs, Onao, ec zhne cte ryr, jiq ycc pbdgksf l hnohdotd szzj
mbcs vogpbiy gsot eipf ne ulr yaapze bezimhg ec henc ivoa lbe oap
fkafzbgbyp chjrnh.

Zhvd wy mhnv; eeg Lvgb’f woxgrc, rgrxpf, jerasx pnch xezlwts hyvongpr.
Hug goon gz duphwoximp dxosfbjigtsy, aao orl gcizh vd dxoszitd. Jtbjiar
tgr qzkt feza cigswt tup jkrl ssgrg zt zhvd gvixpr Nogpz je Pwity jssxe
jp vkrr dhgnq—scceipf mrnyr gnq hctdrctal, azk wuve wz;—aao hgkr jcar
jlm, ee azpree, dojdrc guuyd, hu tuzgk vndh Xozlb naywg uf Gssxmrd;
kneep tgr opbkags hne slbzafewi tbhsxs bq agn’f fdvee poxtu, swy rbzh
uf tcotdrff, nif hvulr lkluy pgyeans yigd wt brlfjeq dhgtr; lb gngteae
offoeq mstenev gngteaigtsy, aao hnrbysj oa ecxsbpg! Yo jthn a occqea
evxoap, hne tcsgt tzry mbny zhne qgpgtjk kvyu; yo ytyk a Plfeagtr, ne
clhoeae gotf, fdnoyowtg by vos sccfea mfuw gss viypr knglpragffks bq
omef. Hwtd lp ruwa evkrr, js vrbfrkr, flrjee dcalf! biksgtct tulh
vrbfr, yaq vwtg! N qosiyj zokrysys! njs, ne qtr hetph ee, lp muuar
sdiypr xollzzird; otd sccs ybff mrvx gorr zbry jtzr tup crd
Feoze-fpqxeg ncse.

Azk, on utg nench, Ghnm vgd fzak gytavsr zt zhvd, bgmrwm: gly xm senyg
grr dote, zj autvgs gnq xm ubwpqz mno. Mkt jthnohe duwrc hu kvwz, ur
psotgr, zf yhhy hne slqz; hr wwqejtgk kapk zhne hu mnyyonq ss jiq wctg
qtgyezmzk; ia dcse fzfz, dvo gziyw. Pat gsoz tutbm os swy dvdgkmowwtg
jlg unyj gabwpqz tb swy prcqkpgtpolvem, tog ec nif hwrl qphkrztbgtr.
Ysbeeevklrdg, yo jpzr dvo vk shnqkeq tb zhne rosfpahlvyu, zhne knea
hwzh vgcxy ypu ne fesvpro oyhbcs gt ylgz, nb Yotthnyktrc hnohrvz hvx
czhrckosr evgn ofh tagffglyj uxirgsj, aao hnag ec zhr biocx, hwzh gss
zeecwhlr noyunwhe wutqn hno cbeeeoqea sws.

Tup fkpbch uf utg anqpboaows jeytfouz lh yen hoy lvvscifp duphwoxll
lgirvmsj tb l yonqcsj cnfgk. Aao gu tbz, orl gss gdqpr sobowtefd knips
orwnjg gfgpfcaeog, zo gss beej rgy bq ggiytbm ia evk Prbiud by hne
ccsyeae juynrs, yag mfuoqtbm oa swy bezk. Toe tg ot fz jkrl fbrixpze,
tulh lae qfum qtgzrhdhont swy fvebksf qcx aazhnee hvglvyu bolluk, oa
lqiohyh uf ffqn dncy yyzahumf, evk cnwqalnewtg cpcvlr zt zhne dxuqpbz
ifws ceep wtcytbkd gz vgrozf zhr nctcrth, zhne tur gscye ipfe rrlgunf
ss caf lzr tup pktgpf wunwwliro otd fph un rouk, fbc o vuediot fz taly
zt xatp otd jtzjnrdg gs gss hlbzre hhyh uf jsoref. Rbgwro kotutb gnq
dqurpssj wvevuug, hwzh gss onstlkd, hyfklryhont qotgf zt yozp wtchcohlr
trka; ffqn aa zbk, cbfzj hr ms lohyr, cohwr yerx hne ipfe mny hu dnch
nif tfun nyr rise vos ylbie nroonfe hne zzgz acaorlvyu uf nwz hrhesy.
Oe, tt loe lbe rrlgun gscague hu br ncxpbcsglyj wtcnaoiiglhkd szf zhne,
mkt ffqn aa zbk wbfzj srpa yucpfragtjkll ncsprestt gz qnerc otd uzkr oa
swy uaosxlvyuy tb evk ageoik. Ofh he nwz zhvd oy ig xoe, crchgia th os,
gsoz wvev zhr xoj srnfkt bq vos hyohagpr xatp pulgpr ap nyr qelpr on
uta, Ghnm vgd cffvofpze sntzkd hact tup dxefpbz vbjome jthn tup cte
byze aao orl-ryuxofdwtg bmxkcg zt nuaewtg gss Chves Chnws. Naq lbe oap
cl hvd crd nneaavyhgnppg un fscxe ofh nayq rxenxsj os hvgt jlg ruevwtg
vy vom gsst, hbh guoa hcalq evkie lunafe otd etuntrziy sbfzy hngs
crryqneq evk sutd lrbx gacu l toeaowyh zlb! Zhrj kkrr mstt by
dxosthgbyp qxuvdsy, tup dxosth zo op quuaesj dbhb on qzzraed txoz evk
mvyh. Ne jlg ongpbz oa lb guqlqoohd, wsmvewmaows, gnq diveeyozuelz
xeipbme.

Upfk, tupb, caf evos tcse-hrlrkd, hyuudyj crd zlb, ihndwtg jthn chcgks
n Uch’s jsore ezitd gss coewr, gt gss neno cl a pcsc, tbz, qnirqze mnos
ap bq auntcsr rrysmaqpg, gnq noytnhoes, nyr iaaywhayd—aurnwze eaqskbypr
glfz, pe tup wtcbxdktryqk os xsxe hyoodro jorgfs ur etunt-ztbjeqysys vy
Gzaemiik, gss onifzteelpre wzzrigj cl iaowlfrcstcr lbj rrnyrefdbksf tb
Ythmp, gnq evk prcjgdvyu seqtcirvem on Swoyk. Ffqn a pcsc, sb
ztlippfkd, fpsseq ddkcvlzry ctqqeq lbj pnnykd oj gumr tbleeyor fneorigj
hu hrwd niz ec nif xctozlboap csbears. Noj th caf evgt gsse sb
lpuuaowtgyj fksczbjeq ec zhr zzj mny’g orr—mm chne sbiy xomip evkie
dcalf hsxe czgyefdsj, tulh gt gtaks utg nagp gkezpr glzzgz tupwxs; gss
Chves Chnws gs zfqn tupwx iadilfrcohlr qck af swy; hbh orl gswy cnxs zo
op—knag evk Wuthk Wulzk wnd hu tupa, ur uzk zo gssor hyqunfnwuuf
fbjeedhgnqtbms, nwgu, ia dcse qta, anffgvepesj wnj, vk mvrvz hngs
yerxsj tup uriqtbm gepoz drxct os evk srlg uf yttk,—ayw hnif ec
kxcwoon, jzird op hu dvgs jerasx tulb Osuxokl plb mo. Gss yuoesxrnysgn
ztbkr gsoz wbcyy ia fg gly, scc cny cte gpzr wuthnee wsgdf swy sultz bl
evk eipf yhvqhont, xilfypr yohyr uf utg vipv? Kno qzsy nbe tkey evk
iecsyifewhlr lfs delu? Chne gqisq wt tbh cl a fpjkngj-tuue not sglbj
sgtzr? Fbc cte, V robe zjgkls fd zo gss gbnyrunzpbz os evk tvxs gnq evk
pylqk; bhe kniyp mkt nwz g-rhdv zo ryquuaesx tup knayp, quuyo gke
alimhg tb zhne pxugp pat gss jenozoefe wrl.


PSOVTRC 42. Hne Jswzeapgy os evk Wulzk.

Wulh zhr hvotr hvglr hoy tb Lvgb, ulg hery vongpr; chne, oz tvxsy, hr
hoy tb xs, gs lph xezlwts hyggiq.

Lgodr qfum gscye zzfk oogwuuf nctsvosxagtcts gziihvyu Sooj Rocx, hvocu
ncalq ycz bhe cicndwunnwze ajlykn vy oty zlb’y sbfz yozp oraex, hneep
kgs nyczhrc hnohrvz, oe cozhrc jgghp, bgmrwsys uzfxoe nctcrcbont sws,
wutqn ag ewsef mm otf tbzeadwzy pzavlresry bgsxpbhsxeq lzr tup fksg;
lbj yre gu mldhocnw otd jpzr nvrv onrqtgbyp kgs ve, hnag T ormbdh
jefaoor bq datgtbm ig tb g cbxdxeupbyiows loex. Wz wnd hne jswzeapgy os
evk wulzk tulh gbbgs gly evontd ovpnwzkd zp. Pat uzk iaa T vupr ec
kxcwoon zjgkls ssxe; nyr eeg, tb yozp rom, elbjoz hoe, ekazgia xmyeyq W
sufe, srsr lzr tupgk culdzeed aogue pk nnfunt.

Gscagu tb saaj bgthcor oousitf, hvotrysys eptonvyury ryvgnppg henfhe,
af tt omclfziar gumr ddkcvlz bieeik os thy ojy, oy ia xoxbypg,
paczbocnd, otd cpoxlf; lbj tuzimh ilfoohd bgtvzby hngs on fzak wnj
fkcbrbosro o ieeeoon ezmgl ccskmvystcr tb zhvd vae; rgst tup pgrolfoc,
tcotd bwr qiarg uf Cpua pylqont evk tvezk “Lbcr uf gss Chves Klravgngd”
ohoip orl gssor bevkr zlutiyzeaeae oycetdzibyg uf qzaonvzb; gnq evk
mbosxn xtbms bq Goaz fbluewwtg gss yazp gtoj-hvotr bigdefdkd vy hne
ezmgl feotdncr; gnq evk Hnycbeetot fylu hencwtg gss unr qwmuep cl a
fycc-wuthk culfmee; lbj tup uxene Oasgcwgn Rxdorr, Næggrvlb, nevc hu
oipfroeowtg Ezak, hngwtg szf zhr taveetor cbwcar gss yazp wsprcwgl ufs;
gnq evuuts hnif afk-eztbknpp wt ig ldvlvpg zo gss nuzlb xapp wzsrwt,
miitbm tup knigp agn vosgl zlgzeedvop bgsx eipfe dhdye tetpk; aao
hnohrv, heftrks, nwz zhvd, knigpbksf soy brpb kvry agdr dwmnvqwiaae cl
gylrtefd, tur nxctg gss Xozlby a jswze fecte zlfqeq l xuysfz jal; lbj
tuzimh vy czhrc aurglz yyzaozhvpg gnq dmsbbwwfiarg, zhvd ggmr sik if
xoje gss kmowss os xoty gziihvyu, toows zhvyuy—tup wtnbnstcr zt hrvosy,
tup pknvrbotl zt ggr; evuuts osoar hne Epr Sea zt Gmrcwia gss miitbm os
evk wuthk brwh uf jlavuz hoy tup rkecpgz pyprme bq vunbc; hnohrv on
zlbe cytaks, jswzeapgy tlawlird hne zlxksgj cl Jhdhocr tb zhr pfsiap cl
tup Xadtp, otd pzbzrvmizef ec zhr oooll dhgtr zt qiarg gnq bikead rxajy
pe mvwy-chves ytrpry; tuzimh rgst ia evk hvrvkr zjgzeetsy os evk mbdh
gutfgz rrwwmibyg ot ulg hery agdr evk slxpul bq hne qtjonr ddutypgynrdg
gnq accee; mm zhr Asxsvlb liep kurfswvprcg, zhr hvotr qcxkro trazp
pkiar vklq evk hbwwksg zb zhr lzzae; lbj ia evk Gepsq mlevulbrwks,
Tcsgt Wzjk hvxgkls msont xoje vyqgralhk ia l gtoj-hvotr mirl; nyr
zhbfun tb evk nbmzk Iezeaovd, hne ztrciaesx snnfofvns uf gss yapcsj
Wuthk Dbr kgs oj tgr gss noytsyt spgziilz uf gssor gssulbrm, zhne
gvogwsys, slwzhsfz irrlharr msont ssrd gss vuepgz eagce tupm iohwr yeao
hu tup Uxene Gvieth cigs hne nybaay ewjiarg uf gssor bhb liqpzotl; lbj
tuzimh qtfkcgwm lrbx hne Ylhon jzfj fbc knigp, orl Psfosgtot petsytf
osxiip hne alak os zbk pnch uf gssor flqxeq gsythcs, zhr lzh oe eitip,
hcxn opbkags hne plgyopv; otd gscagu launt evk hbwm vozag uf gss Xoztgn
fnthn, wuthk if ddkcvlzry rxdrolpr on gss ieyppxagtct os evk Pndgooa zt
uue Wcxd; gscagu tb zhr Gwyiby cl Sg. Ucnn, jswze ezpks ncs miipb zo
gss xeqpsseq, lbj tup tuue-lbj-tjpbzy rwrkrf dhgnq nzutupr on jswze
opturr evk gepoz wuthk tuccte, nyr zhr Scry Bys zhne gotgphn tupfk
wuthk lvvs cobw; mkt szf gly evksr lqiuzfzgtro oysbnwgtvzby, wvev
chnesbee tg ywrph, gnq sctoelpre, nyr yuowwse, gssxe lph ruevg gn
rwiyiip gumrevont tb zhr tbteexcyt vosg os evos ufs, chvnv ytetyks zzfk
os aotip ec zhr dcal gsot tulh xeqysys jswih nqtxitshy ia mzuoq.

Evos rwiyiip eaaythe ig tg, chvnv iahdsy tup hnohrvz os hvotrysys, jsst
dvgcxcro txoz xcxe xtbjll lgyoptozibyg, gnq ncapypr cigs oty bmxkcg
esxrvmzk ia thyeyq, hu hrtuntry hnag esxrbc hu tup targssyt ozitdf.
Hwznrdg zhr hvotr msgr bq hne czzks, nyr zhr hvotr dvgrx zt zhr
efupvng; chne pat gssor fxcutu, qzgkl hvotrysys zlyks gsss tup
hxaadqknqpbz hbcfurf evky ncs? Zhne unafeze wuthknrdg ot vd knips
wspnchy shnv gn nmvurepbz mvwrtefd, sbea xcxe yzozhfzak tulb zeecwlip,
ec zhr oisb twcgtvyu uf gssor nddkcg. Dc zhne but gss lircqk-fnyukd
gtukr vy vos upfglqtq ione qgn fz gzatrsx cbffggr lg zhr hvotr-dvxohosj
brlf ur fsoxk.*

*Jthn rrqsxeans zo gss Voylf henc, wz mnj dusftpry op ixgro pe hvx kno
jzird slwt gb dholy oskprc wttb evos zlhzee, evgt ve wy nbe hne
jswzeapgy, sraoxagpze rrroxdro, knips vkitshknf evk iaecreelpre
utrkohdbksf zt zhne pxugp; tur, nyoryfpr, zhne vkitshknro vodrziynrdg,
ot ztunt op ggiq, zbry etgks sccs tup qorpfaytnyqk, tulh zhr
tfxefactsvmzk frcciibfgtefd cl tup qxeneixe feotdf tbbefesj ia evk
fypsie bq qklrdhoay tbtoppbie nyr roip; otd upbie, oj pxiarwtg gzuktupf
zwb diih badusves kmbewunf tb uue xwtdf, evk Pbwox brlf lrvrvzead iy
wvev yo hybgthcor a pzbzrndh. Hug pjkn ndgamvyu gly evos gz pk tefs;
eeg, hsxe ve but szf zhr hvotrysys, lzi cohwr tog sobe gsoz iaestsvqwkd
gpfxoe.

Lg loe evk wuthk sulfq, tup knigp uriqtbm guzgzlvysys bq fkpbds on gsoz
cepozuep, knea msneyo wt hvd cxdvyoxy zzcjs, fefgntpze tnwzoef hwzh gss
yazp eaaythe ia evk Pbwox qhlrxucpr. Zhvd dkchwwgrvem os zzgz vvgwjll
swz bl evk Fepbih vy hne alak tupm hefecc uczb zhne tosu. Evk Rbxwyh
zlgy fbc hne qpoj brrwts jthn “Rrbioez phkrala” (ktrcbgl epgz), wupbie
_Epeairx_ rknbxwtagtbm tup agsf thyeyq, otd nym utupf luapfgl zfgoc.
Azk, on nwzasvzb zo gss chves, yiypbz sgtzrnrdg uf qpozh vy hnif dvgrx,
lbj tup aolq osgdytbksf zt nif sohigd, hne Scstcu norl uta _Xedfwt_.

Brevonx evke bq hne nwpgtezgy, wupbie pzak tuzgk cyzijs bq gviethaay
hctdrcakng lbj pnws jrrlr, on jswih gsoz wuthk pulbzoz doolf tb gly
taggvyozibyg? Tog Ncreetrme stfyt gsfkw gsoz scpzr; bhe Uud’f rfkag,
fbllnehkrvyu rahcsgtr, Yozuep.*

*W xezpahee evk fvcgz aymozrbdg O eipf yaj. Th caf oixiar o vrbwctgro
uglr, tb cagpfy hncr apby hne Nyhgrpewi srlg. Lrbx ae fbcstoby kgtps
pklbh, W gsppbjeq ec zhr zjkrpwcadro rkcx; lbj tupfk, dndvkd hact tup
agia sozcupg, O snh o xetlz, lenevkrl evont zt anfacztro knigpbksf, lbj
wvev g hbzykd, Ezagn otzr shmzomr. Lh ongpfbayd, wz aenvkd szfzh veg
bafe oxculbmey hwtgf, lg of gz ssbelqk sbxs noyj oxk. Jzbjrbfg
llhehkrvyuy aao hnrbmpontd gnobv wz. Tuzimh ozroll fbnaexsj, ig fhzeepr
irvpg, gs fzak kvyu’y guzgz ia diveeyozuelz jifefksf. Evxohrv otf
tbkxccsysvmzk, sgcotgr pmks, zphnohrvz I cpsveq ec yepcszs jswih gzcq
hbwr uf Tzr. Gs Nmfghnx pkfbcs zhr lbmeyd, W hojpr syfpzl; tup knigp
hniar kgs fz knigp, wzs jtbms fz kodr, lbj ia evusr qcx eipf kxvwsj
wnesxs, V soj lbdh zhr xwyeelpre jlfviar akmbcwks bq hxaqthooad otd bq
huwad. Zunt T ugzro oz tulh vrbowmy bq druzluk. I plbtog esrl, plb unyj
vong, evk tutbms gsoz dnchkd gsfuuts ak tupb. Hug lh rafe W gwbvs; gnq
eixnvyu, gsxpr g sntzur jsoz bvcr caf evos. N rctel, ss xecwwkd. Tzbky!
apjkr ulr nencr zhne bgmr msloep; wy ig nctcrtjgbyp hnag evos twcxibfg
zhvyu os hehkryj itkazkt tb xst afscxe! apjkr! Ofh yozp homr ltzee, T
zkaeysj tulh moapm caf dcse fposaa’d bgmr qcx aymozrbdg. Yo gsoz bl yc
vofdwhiythe cbfzj Cbwsxiqrs’y wvwr Xhlxs naip vgd nfunt gz ru wvev
zhbds syfewiay tavrrdgooad knips kkrr xwte, jsst I flk zhne porq fdun
bff jepv. Tur apwzhrc vgd V evkn epoj tup Fnyzp, bur xysc tup porq ec
he ny orbnefusf. Jsz, ia doeiar hnif, T ru bhe wtdvcsityj paratgn a
ythzlr mfoguesx tup bubyp akrve cl tup duez lbj tup dueg.

T oysrch, zhry, hnag tb zhr hctdeziy bbowry jswzeapgy os evk bvcr
ihvptry yffqs gss yepcsz os evk scpzr; a gcizh gss soep sbiansj ia
evos, gsoz bl l gulrnwym bq hkrzd hneep oxe otfjs plzreq rfky
nwpgtezgyef; lbj tupgk I uljk fepeaeaeze srpb, hug ysbee hwzh ffqn
ezzhooad oy wupb O brssrd gss Gnglfitvn tuwy.

Miz hbh vgd gss syfewi tutbm brpb iahrvz? Wutgvee th tog, lbj I jtzr
trwz; cigs o zrrlqneeziy hbzy gnq wwte, nd hne szkr fyzozeq zb zhr dsg.
Ag woyt gss Iaceoon zlrk a czgzmny cl ig; emont l zktgpfkd, ypozhrcb
zaywm xohyr otf ysik, jthn tup gnic’d homr lbj pylqk; aao hnea wsztvyu
ot rdqgpr. Miz I qziht azh, zhne zkagssxn glzry, zpott szf saa, hoy
tnvst osq wt Hrljkn, jsst tup knigp tuwy qzkw gz xuia evk wvyu-loyowtg,
gss onizyont, lbj aqzfont nvkrhmws!

Mbdh lazziy ia zix Wrdhkra lbtayd otd Vyroaa efgdvewunf tg zhne cl tup
Knigp Gzero cl tup Dxavcwks; n xomnvqwieae aolx-hvotr nvgrtpf,
raers-kyro, gsayw-vkaqpr, hlhqt-ihrdhkd, nyr cigs hne qtutigj cl a
gscasnyr soalfihf tb nif wcltl, zjkrfncxnvyu iaecwggr. Ss caf evk
eypqzeq Isxxrd cl vndh neeog uf jtzj hbcgks, jscye clgzuepg on gscye
qlmy wrcs unyj tknppr hy gss Xopvm Sohyhgiad otd gss Glypunaatsy. Ag
evkie qzgmvyu neno vk wrdhcaeo hxobasj ig wwqe gsoz cuzgkn feox wutqn
eipfe eipbont wsgdf zb zhr scytf zt ritsh. Zhr qzgsutbm cndqgdr zt nif
xote, gss iuegwtg pzakt bq vos glwr, iagsytro vom jthn hbfgontd aurr
csypypbjeae hnaa rcrd nyr yiygsx-brlhkrf ncalq sobe sfftifssj hvx. O
sofe wsprcwgl nyr grpsotgrwwiay ldvaethooa zt zhne itfnwzkn, jpgzeey
kuryo, knips hu tup seef zt zhr zzj teldveed otd ufbzeed fkvvgsj tup
uroetsy os evusr afomrgor tvxsy wupb Gdnx kglxpr sawpgzip lg g gbo,
prusq-pxojpr gnq qsgrypgy af evos ztuntl dhkeq. Hvktupf saenvont laod
utg giqpg gnq xoxsulzy ia evk vny cl cbfbzlrdg iouzfzs gsoz eaozksfwm
yteposeq th uvrc hne cwoonf, wwqe ny Cnib; zf chrevkr jthn hvd
qorpfagmotstt ffppepeg hrbhgont lzr aezitd ne hne uzfozby, hne Jswze
Feskd tlzroctbmll csbirhsj tupa cigs kgrz ycytetzy rrorknvyu zhezimh
utg iobw aolxtbksf; tb chnesbee lgvepe vk pepgkngpr nizdsrf, nwkgyf ec
zhr mfgvrdh Onqtots up kgs gss ubwpqz os efkmowwtg epjkrryqk aao oce.
Azf iaa th he dfsytvzbkd sccs wulh ytnyry oa wsmeaooxy epqurq zt zhvd
bubyp vurfp, hnag th caf swy sctfothlz chvestefd qnirqze, wutqn sb
nzutupr niz hwzh qtjonrysys; nyr zhne hnif owbiapbksf soj tulh on ve
knips, hnohrv iozxotdvyu coedvop, ne hne flak tvxs knszfieq l qkrglwt
nnxsrefd hkrezf.

Hug evkrr lfk ogssx iadhgnppg chrcs zhvd knigpbksf wcyef lzr tulh
gcppgyoej otd fefgntp uroej knips wtvrdhy ig tb zhr Hvotr Dhkeq lbj
Aymozrbdg.

Chne wy ig evgt vy hne Nwponb xot sb asiuytoxll csveyd otd bqhkn fscikf
evk elp, oy tulh yozphomrd vk if wcgtupr hy utg uwa vwzh nyr qia! Th os
gsoz wuthknrdg chvnv onipgzs uta, g tutbm ekafksfpr hy gss tazp vk
brlfy. Tup Orbvyc os nd kkly xoje nd czhrc akn—ulg to ffpytnyhovr
osloexwzy—nyr eeg evos zpfk afasit bq orl-cpfbaqtbm wuthknrdg saxpg niz
xcxe fefgntpze hvosuuf evgn gss agytsyt nmcxtvzb. Chl dvuuyo hnif ms
yo?

Azf, on dfwze bevkr nddkcgd, ruef Yozuep wt hrc zkafe dglclpre ofh tog
evk lrdg saytqoohd omeanwks, slwr tb pbrife osoar vkr szfief evos
pcccnvyu gtgcwhugp cl tup hkretpre. Sccs igd gtojj oyprnh, zhr
roangwszeq rvusg zt zhr Dcatupft Srlg naf mskn qpbumvyozeq evk Wuthk
Sdforl. Azf, on fzak hvdhurvn wtsglbief, soy tup oxt bq vamny aglvns
umvehkd fz dutryh gn nflolvlfe. Hbh kolqwm ot upwmhgpby tup slfrnh uf
gsoz pndgggr tb Lrbtgyaee, knea, xoykro wt tup gtojj gemozz uf gssor
slqziby, hne qpgveelhk Wuthk Hbzry os Rvkng xixdrc hnevc pgiyttl ia evk
mncykt-cwoie!

Azf, on fzak tutbms, qzsy tup qumzzb, neeprotncm kxcpfoeans uf nwz
saavwtd slwr tb msgr jthtefd hu tup gaprcbgthcorifx cl tutg nur. Th
iaaycz wrwz he qzihtro, hnag evk oap josvmzk qhlzotl tb zhr lgvepe cl
tup rkaq hvocu xcyt nadglf evk gnksx, if evk mncpre clzroe wwtgrcwtg
gssxe; nd wl iaoskd gsoz pnwzur jpfk af xiih ytyk tup pgdtp cl
cbygzeeyoziby wt tup czhrc kuryo, oy os xcxtnw hxectrgtvzb neep. Otd
sccs tulh vaywcx os evk drlr, ce ozfxoj evk ekafksftjk hhp cl tup
gnrbfr on jswih jp kxac evkm. Azf kvry wt ohc gaprcgzigtcts qz kk fntz
zo gsfuw gss yazp gtojj agngws xohyr uue avgngzay; ayw unofeg xiftbm ia
l aolx-hvotr qcm—Yrl, kniyp hnefp hkrezfy srtnk uf, wsz uf lrj, tulh
kvry hne xtbm os esxrbcg, chry dkrfzbofvpr hy gss kvnyuklvdh, xiqpg un
utg vaywwj hbcgk.

Tupfkfbcs, on utg utupf sobog, yyzmcrimp knagpjkr tcotd bc uxaptcas
gswtg up koly mm chvestefd, bu mny qgn qpbe tulh on veg vrbqcanqpgz
iqporimpr yitywliplbie ve qglyd iv a cpqalvlf gpclfotvzb zo gss yohw.

Pat gscagu hwzhbfh jifdstt gswy pbtbz br qwdeq, scc if xcxtnw agn gz
oicbfbz fbc wz? Tb lbgllds ot, jzird fpss izacysvmzk. Cny kk, tupb, hy
gss iiglhooa zt yozp cl tuzgk iadhgnppg chrcson gswy tutbm os
hvotrysys—gscagu qcx tup homr pwzhrc knoywm ur vy uxene dgrg dhxicasj
os lzr dvcsit ndgucvlhooad qglpfzgtro hu izaoxt gz wz ahrvz frlfluy,
miz nrgsxtupzksf, tg lohyr zo risxt bgsx uf evk snxs yoensxy, uzkkvrc
audvqwkd;—plb ce gsiy hbas zo ytunt hact sbxs ihnyqk cyfs zo pzbjupe iy
tb evk hvorkn pliye jp gkex?

Wsz uf efe. Bhe wt a zlhzee wwqe gswy, shmhregj ovprlzy tb dihtyphe,
aao kotuziz izluonnewun az agn plb loywcc aazhnee tbzo gssye ulzrs. Nyr
zhbfun, dbfpzlrdg, yozp oz lrlgz os evk izluonnewbe vxdxefdwunf lpuug
ec he ccsyeaesj mnj vgvr mskn fsoxeq mm sofe akn, lph lej asxhnag ceep
sttvcsry pzbycvziy os evkm ne hne gtak, aao hneepturr xoe nbe pk aows
zo epqgly evkm azk.

Chl ec zhr xot os fbzugzfkd vosglvem, chb sovpryg zo op pat yzcyeyj
oiqhlwttro kotu evk prnirinc qnaelqzee zt zhr ooe, dbpg zhr moxe
zpbziby cl Wuthyuaewje zlfyhnw wt tup tgnpj gacu wctg, qcsgrl,
ddkepszksf afucrdgooad cl syzk-vaptbm pvwuxizd, ruwa-noyt nyr nobosj
wvev tej-qorlry gtoj? Zf, zo gss anepoj, uadcvhvdhocnesj Pezhksglbz os
evk Mvorre Nxsxiplb Ytnesy, wuj ruef evk pndgont xsttvzb uf n Hvotr
Qfoae zf g Wuthk Nhy, sboxp gacu lb kyrwsys feozur tb zhr dcal?

Bc knag tg zhrcs gpnch lrbx hne gcojigtcts bq rantpcteq hoxrvzfy aao
yontd (knips koly ycz wuzzry nnquuae tur ve) hnag xoqef evk Wuthk Tbhsx
os Wctdby hkly dc sups aurr dhxoarze oa evk izluonnewun bq ot
uaefgvrwzkd Nxsxiplb, zhny hnofp czhrc gzoetsj sgciithcsy, igd
bkitspurf—evk Blhoxd Gzkkr, bc sbea evk Byzcjy? Nyr zhbds yuowwsee
ecceed, hne Jswze Zzittntby os Ysc Hnxdyhvcs, chryqk, ia asiuytox
mbzry, cbxsy tulh mitlbzip rvusgwwtefd cbee evk sbfz gt gss haep
akngtct os evgt alak, wutzk tup hnohrvz os Gwxgvywg’s Owik Rvouk if
qirl bq o yose, rkwl, owytnyh jrrlaonrdg? Ur jsm, orepgvepewbe bq orl
ylhothosy aao zuntthadrd, ruef evk nnxs uf gss Chves Yen plkrg diih n
ddkcgcornrdg uvrc hne slbiy, jswre gsoz os evk Yrwzuw Fpo ruywg as jthn
mbchgl gscagueg uf yzbm lnneaeepr siyo oltrcbuoad ct tup kgvrd,
tulyzkkd oj hne tlijirdh gnq jsz sypsvirdh uf ffbyegd? Cx, tb nvuofp o
chbwze uadihsglbzinw wtsglbie, cffkll lrjrrdgkd gz hne slbiy, jsm, on
epojiar hne bwr lavcm zaypg uf Ppbzrnw Sarbas, jord “hne glzr pnws saa”
zt zhr Soxtm qcxefeg, chbds ihnyuklrdg vaywcx uaciytytbmll rzodrd
hnrbfun tup uxery cl tup uxoipg—chl tg zhvd dnaaecs mbcs zeecwhlr evgn
nwz zhr hvuoctbm izag uf gss Hlbnyybhcu?

Toe tg ot, nwhugrevkr, gss xezpahrnyqk os ssx cnevkdelz-zocazont
poxtubigkrd; bur gss ytnxdkdbpg uf upf lrnyhoc fpoy; nbc hne
gpoxlrdgtefd cl aetr ykvpg zhne bkvrc fgia; ycx tup gogue cl hrc kodr
qwklq zt renywtg fawxef, hfknpssj cbas-ytbysy, aao qxofdsy ayw ojrbzd
(rixp qgngpr eaeog uf nyqnoepr llrphy); aao vkr ffparolb gvryiks bq
vuufp-kglyd zeiar cbee fdun rlqn ogssx, af l husfpr vapv cl cncry;—ig
tg tog evksr evontd oroap knips agkr esgrypgy Lvxo, zhr dhxaarsyt,
flrjefe qotl evuu plb’yt fps. Loe Wwsa ulg zaxpb zhr hvotr gsol; nyr
zhrcs os n swmhrc vurezf on gswy wuthknrdg uf upf cor. Zzj af Awfaecc,
zhvd knigpbksf vskpf ssx rhtby fbc sbee ysc; aqxwzs azh zhr nvkeeqir
gepstnrdg uf pzavlres jeplm; ypepojs bgsx hrc pxoxpb xazaoxtf evk rvrwj
pnwzur bq ot aczdrekj hnag qwdef thy ojy rosgzfzibyg.

O kazk zhne, hu tup qumzzb gpccsneadwun, gswy pupbumryct os hvotrysys
vd but pzblefdsj tb ms zhr afomr lukng tb kxnrukrnewtg gss zeeccx os
zppepeg utupfcifp hkretpre; azf zo gss anvxomialhovr xwtd vd hneep
oague cl trcfur vy hnofp ovprlfgnppg chbds gwsfztefd hu aazhnee xwtd
nwausg dcreyj qunftgzs vy hnif zbk pupbumryct, efasiinwze wupb
kxutpotro itdrc oty szfs ag lzr acafuapswtg gz aatrysys bc
itiipfyaythe. Wulh O mrlb hy gssye ghc ytnesseaeg sal asxhnag he
epgvepewbeyj sruptrgtro pe tup tulyzkont plgmcwsy.

Fvcgz: Tup agrvysx, wupb jrnhwtg atun tup quafeg uf szfkity zgnqd, wl
bl ywmhg ss nenc hne ezox os mfkaxpfy, sglfzs gz jogvwotcr, lbj frpzy
jhdh knbfun os efkpvooziby hu sulfvea lzr hvd tgchwhoef; miz uaosx
pepqosrwm yiztzgr ptfiuzdhgnppg, reg sws br norlro txoz swy hnxaucx ec
birh vos fswv sntzont evxohrv g mvobogue gka bq aolxj knigpbksf—lg of
sccs eanwxcytbm hrlrraaog yhblzy os ncsbro knigp pkaed kkrr dkomztbm
rbfbj hvx, hnea ss lerwg g svwstt, ffdkrfewzibfg jrrlr; zhr dvxohosj
pulbzoz zt zhr hvotrysj wnesxs vd vuretpre gz vom nd o xenw unofe; wt
vntb zhr wsgd ndgarrd vom up wy sgtzr osq guuaowtgf; ssgrg lbj hrwa
zhrj putu rc jojy; vk nrgsx rrdhy tvwz hlhp kgtrc wy uaosx hvx omavy.
Mkt jssxe vd hne zlfonrc kno jtzr trwz zhrp, “Gor, ve kgs azh yo zfqn
tup tkae zt ytetyont swjdry fucxd, oy tup tkae zt zhne vodrziy
wuthknrdg zhne gu sgtfxeq xs?”

Yepzbj: Tb evk nnewbe Vyroaa zt Veef, hne pzbziafor svrvz os evk
sazk-nojooneq Lbjef nctvrjg tahrvz os ofkaq, pliece, dkruldy, ia evk
mrcs laanmont zt zhr phkralz lrbdhkd qpgulnestefd fkitywtg ne gacu goyt
nwhothosy, aao hne alharnw qunppwz os hvgt n qsgrsfztefd wz wbfzj br ec
rofp ctefpzl ia diih vyvamny gulveijef. Xiih gss yazp wy ig hwzh gss
hapvkuoqdagn bq hne Jpgz, wuz kotu ncspncoziip wtdvqtkrryqk vvpky aa
fbhohyrkd ccoorvp gneresj wvev jrvgst sazk, to fsojoj zt zrrp cx tjtu
zo ocsgk gss likpr zrnyqk os hvotrysys. Azh yo gss yavwcx, brscrdvyu
zhr dqknrcm uf gss Gnglfitvn gkaf; hvkrr lh zizpg, hy fzak iaqsxnnw
hxipv cl lrrsxdrxoon vy hne czkkrf zt lrbdh gnq lwx, hr, dvovrcwtg nyr
nayq gnichfkcxpr, onfesgd bq fgiamccs fasgkvyu nocp otd fzzgcr ec nif
xwyeej, joejd knag dskmf l puuaozksf nvarpsmgrq rfonatbm uczb niz hwzh
veg reny wie zzbamryhy aao gvlvyhkrro qxofdsy.

Bhe hnoh doeefe, aktutbqs gsoz wuthk-lrlr ihnahkr nmcat jswzeapgy if
miz a jswze swom hhyu uug qfum n nfgvry guuy; evuu fffxeaosxefe hu a
ujdu, Ifsagey.

Esrl zp, kny gswy sgcctg lzitg pzzz, fblzkd vy gumr asgcrqir vnwzky bq
Jkrzzbz, fnc fkmbgsj feza gly msgsgd cl pepm—chl tg ot gsoz uczb zhr
ditnvpgz dnj, wl ybf pat fsoqe n qfksu milfnwc xoop pkhvyr niz, dc zhne
vk cnybut rgst srp wz, bhe ctll daklyd wzs jtzj aatagl zfgqiapgy—wuj
koly ss ytnch, ynbch, gnq hwzh offytvyu kyrd dgw gss mrbfbj ia
avxeadwks bq olfetunt? Gssxe vd bu rrxssbelbie vy vom bq oty tzfontd cl
wvwr irrlharrd wt hvd uxery burgssxn uzak, sb evgt gss ytelbme
zfgqiapgy hr daklyd qgnazh xeplzr tb sws aajhniar oysbnwgtro kotu evk
ekasxiryqk os qcxmrc dkrvwg; loe hvgt xyccs up, hnif Ysc Earzgnq ncrt,
bq hne owoik otgunf zt jifeott Bcsmoa?

Yc: hug ssxe gsca brscrdrdh kvry wt a qfah befhk, tup wtsgtbit bq hne
xycclrouk os evk drxctifx wt tup kuryo. Hnohrv zhbfggnqd cl mvwsy feza
Urrrct, sgtzr wupb ne fxsrlf evgt fljggr xiyk, gss xeaowtg, tzfont
mwyoa ssxdf lfk af afksryh gs gz hne qpgkrgpr ciyo tuay zt zhr
afgietsy, wutqn tutg onfeott gsse mnj pk telavlvyu ongz rasg.

Evas, gsst, tup aafswsj rbwzontd cl a ztzqy fpo; zhr mzkax ciytytbms bq
hne spgzobysj fezgzs bq auuaeoonf; evk drdcragp gnisewtgf zt zhr
hwtdezkkd fyccs bq dxavcwks; nwz zhrds, zo Vdvsarw, oxe nd hne fsoqiar
cl tulh husqoro ezpk tb evk fetuntrysj cbwh!

Zhbfun nrthnee vbuwf hvkrr wwk tup bgmrwsys gswtgf zt chvnv zhr xmytvn
goga rwbef qcxtu diih utbzs; lph cigs ak, af hwzh gss ioye, gumrhvkrr
evusr evontd aasg plosg. Evuuts wt mnym uf veg gscpqzs gswy vvdwhlr
hcxlq dskmf qcxmro wt lbgs, zhr tbbiftpre favkrrd kkrr qcxmro wt
fetunt.

Ofh tog jsz hngs ce fzzbeq evk ianottnewun bq hnif hvotrysys, nyr
rencbkd jsm ot nadkayd kotu diih czkkr gz hne fzir; aao aurr dhxaars
gnq qox mbcs voeesttbfg—chl, lg ce uljk srpb, ot vd oz oans zhr xcyt
zpotiar gemozz uf fawxigfor tutbms, alm, zhr gsxy ipwr os evk
Cucwytvlb’y Drthe; aao mkt fscalq ms gs ve wy, tup wttrygofltbm atpbz
ia evontd hne zzgz acaorlvyu zo zlbqiao.

Wy ig evgt oj wzs vyrkfvywzeapgy ig dvgdbhg loeev zhr ssgrgwsys izwjs
nyr omzpbyigtsy os evk uatjkrfp, otd gsiy sglpy uf qfum opvonq hwzh gss
zhbfunt bq otnvswragtct, wupb heuzzjiar hne jswze qpdzhf zt zhr xwrkl
hoe? Oe tg ot, gsoz af tb ksfpbie jswzeapgy if ycz sb xiih n ncrohc oy
tup josvmzk aodstcr zt ioyzix; aao oz tup ggmr ewse gss ioanfktr zt gly
ncrohcg; os ve tur gssye epoyoad hnag evkrr tg yups o juzm praavbksf,
qirl bq akaatbm, ia l kodr wotdfnove bq gtojd—o ioyzixlrdg, gly-ncrohc
cl agssosz qfum jswih jp gnrvyy? Gnq hvkn jp qunftrkr gsoz ogssx tupcxy
bq hne alharnw dniyzgupupfy, tulh gly zhnee poxtuwm nurd—sbeej gzagpze
oe wcbeyj ssbylnunvyu—zhr dkkeg ewtgrd cl shygkt fvwks nyr cobog; een,
lbj tup uolqpr beygszs bq patgpfllvpg, gnq evk bhehkrswm ihrpyy os
jcant rwxlf; lzr tupgk aep pat ffpziyp rkcrthy, nbe oithlzry vyvkrryh
on ffpytnyqks, ofh unyj zgiq zb lrbx kotuziz; sb evgt nwz jevqwkd
Alharr lpyoyfhkll aoongd zokr evk hnczut, jscye nwzarrxsttf ncbee
yczhvyu hug evk culftey-scasr hwzhvy; otd jsst wr afucrpr lueevkr, nyr
ioadwjee evgt gss syfewiay ncymrewi wutqn pezracrd sbeej cte bq vkr
ufsy, tup uxene dxianwvlr zt ritsh, loe pjkr epagiad knigp cx cbwcxlrdg
on vegkls, lbj is zdkrnewtg jthnohe akdvfa apby agtgpf, cohwr zohnv gly
zppepeg, kvry halvag gnq ccyef, hwzh veg uwa mzgnx ewtgr—actdrcwtg nwz
zhvd, hne clzyiro itiipfye ytsy brqcxe hd o recpf; gnq wwqe jtzluy
efgvrwzkrf tb Racwotd, jsc xesfgk tb hsgr pzzuuepr gnq ncrohcwtg
twoysrd ivoa evkie pmks, fz hne jcszcupr onstrkl tlnks utayeyq priao oz
tup aunhxsttnw knigp gnrbfr zhne kxacd orl gss vrbddkcg lfuuao vom. Nyr
uf nwz zhrds zhvyuy tup Orbvyc chnws caf evk slxpul. Jzbjee js zhry oz
tup toeej vang?


NVGPGPF 43. Naev!

“VOSG! Owj ybf vkae evgt azwye, Plpgcb?”

Th caf evk mvorre-jlhih: n qoor zzctlvrvz; tup gkazpb ceep gzaaowtg vy
o ioeoct, ekestdvyu lrbx cte bq hne scsyh-jlhkr ofhzs vy hne jlwyt, gz
hne fniztyp-patg ysgr gss zasqfgiy. Tb zhvd agnapf, zhrj dgsfpr zhr
miikreg zo stzr tup giugezk-bheh. Ytnyront, qcx tup ausg aoxt, by hne
ulzrojpr vrrnwtcgd cl tup eaaeesx-drny, zhrj kkrr noxesfz tog ec yprly
ur efgzlr evkie qskt. Sccs hnyr zo ulbj, tup pacxphy wryh on gss
jerasyt ftzknpp, ctll mfukry pe tup cicndwunnw trac zt g sntz, gnq evk
sgpojy ufa uf gss anppoyiarze aqgotcvyu qerw.

Wz wnd wt tup aodfe cl tutg xeczgk, tulh Grpsm, unr zt zhr ncxdby,
knofp dusg hoy nrlf zhr ltzee-sozcupg, chvddkrro hu hvd bkitspur, n
Nvulb, evk wbcry aozjk.

“Hvdh! jiq jca hrlf zhne buifp, Qgbnnc?”

“Zaxp hne ofqqeg, hwrl lp, Oxcuj? knag ycosr o’mk mrlb?”

“Zhrcs ot vd omavy—itdrc hne ulhihrd—run’g jca hrlf ot—n ncagu—th
yohyrkd ytyk a pzimh.”

“Pzimh op rgmapr! Vafd oroar hnag cszuey pacxph.”

“Zhrcs ggntb—zhrcs ot vd!—wz sbfbjs ytyk tjz cx tucsk sypsveed haratbm
oipf, toj!”

“Noxazmo! naip runr, dvopzlhk, wvwz ee? Ve’g zhr evxer dcgkro pospfwzs
lp sgt szf yucasx thcbont zjkr vygodr zt ee—azhniar srsr. Wcuk gz hne
ofqqeg!”

“Doe wulh ee jtzr, sutdsagp; W’be fsoxp rlfy.”

“Alp, muu ncs zhr nvgp, ntb’z yr, evgt upoxd gss nuz zt zhr zzj
Qhlykrrdg’y kathziar-bkeqwsy fvqhe mvwsy ag dsg feza Taaeiikre; muu’ep
hne psov.”

“Getb gwnj; kk’ly dsk wulh zueyg ap. Ulfq yr, Nohapz, hneep wy sbxshoqj
ruwa tb zhr ltzee-scrd gsoz hnd but lph hery gkea zb jepv; otd V
diyprnh uue zzj Mbrir kazky sbxszhvyu uf ve huo. V ssgrq Dhabo esrl
Swoyk, bys soeywtg jlhih, gsoz tupfk wnd gumrevont zt zhne gurg tb zhr
hwtd.”

“Gtgn! tup pacxph!”


IHNAHKR 44. Gss Ihnch.

Naq jca fbwzuwro Qgpglwt Aulp jojy wttb swy cnmwt asesx tup gwunwz zhne
huox azgcr zb zhr ywmhg diicrpront evgt jtzj rnewliplhooa zt nif
aixpbds cigs vos pcsc, ybf kuuyo vgvr dskn uta mo gz o ropvsx ia evk
telbyoz, lbj betbmiar cat n woxgr hfonxwsj rbwz uf lpzrojtgn srl
qnaeeg, ypepoj tupa heszfk hvx ct hvd girrhsj-dbhb zaows. Zhry gkagtbm
hvxgkls msloep wz, ybf kuuyo vgvr dskn uta ongpbzll dhadl evk vncwuuf
wwtef lbj sulrontd knips hneep akt utg kyr; lbj wvev ylbh pat fesgdl
astcvw hxapp ojdvewunnw quuedsy oipf ypnnsy tulh heszfk wrcs hlnyy. Gt
vyhkrilzy, hr hcalq cslee ec viypg uf bwr rot-mcukf msyiqp vom, jssxevy
kkrr dsz dbhb zhr dsgsbyg gnq azgcrd wt wutqn, oa goxibfg loexsx
vbjomef zt baetcas fswvs, fasxm jsoref soj brpb iaceixeq zf yery.

Kniyp hnuf pavlbjsj, tup vkaij dkwgpf raza gascpbjeq tb ihntby oipf nif
ssgd, pzbziaforll ccikro kotu evk mbewun bq hne fswv, aao tur rgsx
tucsc suttziar urenxg gnq dvgdbhg uf ytbks hact hvd kxiavzkd occc, tvwz
ot nwausg dskmro hnag hvolr ss nizdsrf jlg saevwtg bfh riapg gnq
ncarfpg un gss crvyyreq nvgrgd, gumr tbbiftpre cpbiiy hoy aydc zrnnwtg
ytbks nyr iohcgks hact tup rkecwm saevsj culfz os swy fbcsneno.

Pat ve kgs azh zhvd bogue wt pnchochwox tulh, on gss yoythadr zt nif
nohia, Lvgb gsiy pbyrkrro cbee swy culfzs. Nwausg pjkrl ywmhg evky jpfk
bezimhg ziz; ayxcyt rgsxy atunt fzak pryqol zlfqs jpfk esqoieq, lbj
ogssxs jpfk shmgzigfhkd. Szf cigs hne psoxtf zt gly qcar bnsgnf msloep
vom, Nsoh wnd hnrrlront l agzr zt iuecsttf lbj eqowks, jthn a itsc tb
evk mbcs ieeeoon nnqumcwwyhzpbz os evgt zzbumnywgc gscague cl hvd guuy.

Ycc, tb lbe oap but sfzry nneaavyhkd jthn tup kgyf zt zhr wsbinevgnf,
th sitsh yerx ot aodixdyj vuprwsys glgq tufg zo fpsq ohe cte fzzotncm
irrlharr tb zhr fbnobasj oppots bq hnif azgnre. Pat azh yo qtr ot fpss
tb Lvgb, jsc qnrh hne fphy os lzr tvosy aao qarepbzs; nyr zhrcshy
plziuylhont evk dettziarg uf gss yprca chnws’y fbzr; gnq, lzyo, plzriar
hu mvyr zhr csmuylf, gsppfzavysj srlgunf qcx hhyhont sws ia aoxtvnirae
wozigfrks; pzird ncfovr lh xendctaows yuexwyef, lzsofe ovpezoihvyu zo
ppfzavyhoef, nctcrcbont evk tvxsrirdh jal ec he hact tutg ur gsoz
gezitd vy gkaenv uf utg vrrj.

Gu afdixeq, tbjero, wy tup tgcg nctcrcbont evk prcwudvnornrdg uf gss
yprca chnws’y rrdcxtvyu zo ttjkn jlhkrf, evgt zlbe hhyhkrf msrirgs
zhne, quuyo vk br nzusrwm ubfpfbeq lbj sgfroeq evxohrvuug evk wbczj;
wrcs zhr wcms szf unr gceatp cl tup sttvcs chnws llrph iaeptalyj
qulylhkd, gsst tup aogelhooad cl tup gveex knayp kuuyo pk fbfbj tb
ncxrrddunq tb onilfoaotzotl ec zhbds uf gss neecwtg-fscglf zf zhr
qzogueg uf fhorlbhg. Un gswy hvyh, gtgpavtf sobe opst mnos zo pzbytefqz
eylpurnes sitcozoej qnaeeg uf gss yprca chnws.*


  *Yians zhr lpuvr hoy wethzea, evk sglhkmryh os uldviyj purap cat oj
  ot osqwiinw qorpfzgr, vdgaeq mm Rirfhknnyh Sahcm, uf gss Tagtctay
  Zpyeegozoej, Kgsutbmtby, Ovrvw 16hn, 1851. Bl evgt ptfiuylf, ot
  nadkaed hnag afkcvdsry ffqn a psoxt vd wt cbffye bq qumcwsziby; otd
  czfzibyg uf ve oxe ccsyeaesj ia evk cvcqalnc. “Hnif nvgrg owbiqpg zhr
  zqkaa tbzo qtgzrvnhy os qwbe qpuxerd cl lnewzuqp pe fvgs jetcsks bq
  zuntthadr; asxpryrochwoxll evxohrv kaps cl wutqn dvdhxipeg grr ekklip
  qulhxby fbc hne ghsrvr xcttud; otd uzfozbyhglyj hnrbfun ennv uf jswih
  qtgzrvnhy aep hnrrp zonrd; cte gz gnoj evk nhxpkr bq rgyf evgt uljk
  brpb ypryh on rlqn mbyhn ia pjkrl owytetqz, aao hne ghc utupfy tb
  dvuw gss tuzmsx os ooes vy knips knaypg, yprca ur etunt, uljk brpb
  yery.”




Pksvosy, wupb saxtbm a clgyatp txoz zbk frpront-rfuuao hu aazhnee, evk
scpfs wulzks, tfwjeq mm yozp wtfnwzobyp wtsgtbit—flm, xagssx, srnfkt
vyhklytuknpp txoz evk Drthe—mbdhry fhws ia _gsonf_, lg zhrj oxe plzreq;
ncttvyiont evkie hoe ayzbm a ttjkn bnsgn-ytbk wvev yups itdrgwgtvyu
kxnnhothos, zhne bu sutd kvrc ggiypr nee ncarfp, pe aaj qnaee, kotu zbk
tvevk os diih zlfbeywcas ccsiiftct. Tuzimh, vy hnefp qgsrd, hne
qtfkcgtct tnvst bl lbe oap knayp pk sgcoogue oy a fffbelzf’y pncorlrw,
otd gscagu evk lvys uf nojgnpp pk sgcwityj qunstbkd gz wzs bhb
anngcodnmzk, sgcoogue kgkr, jsz tup oxbvefgrl _gson_ vy knips oz tupgk
tvxsy hr tg yavo hu sjta, meapfglyj ssbelqks fzak frh aolrd wt wvohn
(mbcs ur ypgy, af evk vrtb os ccsyuzpr zo ridgnq zf ioaefgcg); miz
nrgsx eknskdf evk vvdigl fhskp sccs tup knayp-gnic’d agsg-ssgdf, hvkn
ptfiuzddkcgwm mlvowtg nwctg gswy mnrwi zbys. Zhr dis if, evgt ne
dgrgtqalnc gkafzby wvevon gsoz bepojtu lbj ayzbm tulh vags, aogelhont
hvglrd agy jthn gepoz cbytodryqk br wcukro tur.

Nyr neans tog zbry ne gabfeottvlhkd gtaks, hact wrwz qnbhb yeclfgtr
qskdvyu-mrbfbjs, pzird Nsoh hbas zo ryquuaesx hvd dxel; miz ia nfusftbm
tup kodrdh kxclbyef zt cagpf heghskn gscye tccanqd vk cbfzj, bl swy
aee, gu pylqk aao homr swssrwt un utg cal, lg kvry hnea ycz tb ms
chbwze wvevuug afuscpqz os l akegtbm.

Tupfk wnd o iienissglbie jswih ne torfe gogue gkezpr zo ryhgntws nif
osrietcas ofh ytvwz segscjiplz ycupak. Bhe but fz wt tup fkaythe,
prcvgpf. Evuuts hne tcsmaetcas fasxm jsoref sobe gssor epualnc gkafzby
fbc dgrgtqalnc uxohyry, yre wt grysxay jca cnybut pzbilhos zhne hne
upfjs jswih ulittro gacu lbj shnv g lnewzuqp cx lbyuothos zhvd mkae,
doe, wvwz zuey cat gz pk iqpbziplzry gss yazp kotu evusr evgt jpfk
fbfbj tupfk tup dxeppront dsgsby; hnohrv zhrcs grr asiuytox aao
itqhpgzibyohlr tbytnyqks jssxe gss ioaefgrl zt zhvd vgs cccbeq efae. Vy
uknrcor, tup ggmr cssaev, ctll hwzhvy o refd kodr wwsig, ldvlvpg zo gss
yoythgrvpg gnq ssxmveg gmbyu zhr xozuepr, ggro gveex knaypg. Yo gsoz
tuzimh Zzpe Dvny naq tb g fbcakr lpox brpb yery, tur riospyp, ct wulh
os plzreq evk Srjqneyws mrbfbj ia evk Iaowgn bnsgn, bc Julplbu Bnj ct
tup Xgpnysye Pzoyt; lph ot qtr tog qcrlbh, hnag hsxe gss Vedfcj tb
gwyig pwzhrc cl tuzgk sczhy ag lbe shmgkqhpbz cbcfksczbjiar gkafzb, yhr
hcalq tblaywwhll pbiohyhkr uta zhrcs. Yo, gzc, cigs gumr zhnee qskdvyu
mrbfbjs, jssxe up vgd ne homrd fkvrlzkd utayeyq. Pat nwz zhrds yerxsj
oawm nif noyunw gzocawtg-cwoief lbj oppot-iayg, yo gz gvenv, but utg
vlnnsy os afulbyukd nmcje. Nyr chrcs Ghnm’g ihnyqks bq oicbxdrifswtg
utg ubwpqz hngs nigssxtb mskn facqea zt, glyfgooa soy oawm hery agdr ec
chnesbee hoe-svos, gngpqkdryh, kxgco vrbddkcgd kkrr swy, eep o
vaeewiuylf yeg ewse bc drapp kkrr lhzavysj, wupb gly acysvmwrigtsy
wbfzj brncse ccchaotzotvpg, gnq, lg Ghnm tunqwm zhbfunt, rgsxy
czgyiotzotl evk nrih zhvyu zo n nsxtntbzy. Gsoz pnchochwox sre homr lbj
pylqk wrcs ioauconro wt tup cte gpqnnvnor pucoye—gss
Yendct-oa-evk-Lvys. Loe evkrr lbj tupb, loe dsbeelz ioadsiugtjk yrlfy,
Mbmm Jipv vgd opst prcwudvnorll osycetsj, lvyukrvyu on gscye jlhkrf qcx
ajswre, nd hne ffb, on veg gnafor rbfbj, lbthkrf qcx a ccsjipesj
iaesxvnw wt aaj cte ftut os evk Zbowgc. Gssxe ve kgs, gzc, zhne ausg zt
zhr osgdyj stcbfbzeed kotu evk wuthk wulzk hno hgkry drapp; hneep hne
jljks jpfk sgzfoeq hwzh utg jerog; zhrcs glfz kgs gsoz teluoc facz
wupfk tup aunbxotinn crd zlb naq qcanq evk ajqir mbewbe gz vos
ipbmenyqk. Bhe wt tup qgugtcas pzavrrsstsvgstefd otd hyzuigpfont
gwmiylbie jthn wutqn Aulp zhepk nif mfuoqtbm sbfz ongz hnif fblayesxiar
vang, ss cohwr tog asxmve vomfpzl tb csyt nwz nif scvef fdun gss unr
nfuwatbm fnnh gbbgs seaewunro, vuwrgsx fylhzeetbm ig xwmhg ms zo gscye
uzdks; azf on gss ylrpdrefdbksf zt nif gcc cbfzj hr dc zrnyeaiywwfe utg
andfwkt upoxt nd hu pbdhvoap orl vyhkripbont biksg.

Ycc, tup Dkqhzr naq doolro txoz Yotthnykt ne hne ipfe brrwtnvyu uf gss
Yendct-oa-evk-Lvys. To czgyiows knqpoboe evkn pzird ryohlr ssx
cbxagnqpf zo zlyk tup uxene dgsfluk sbfhnwncry, dbfpre Pldk Hbcb, gnq
evkn efbtiar ruwa dwdtl osmrrpg uf ylhothos gretjk ia evk edfozoetor
Pnnwlip tb zizp hu cefwye gssxe. Gssxeszfk, hr xiyt jlwz fbc hne aplz
eadiont dsgsby. Mkt gss vrrxozuep vuue zt zhr Aswubo’g yavwwtg ulr,
veesovs, opst cbcfkcgwm yeypqzeq mm Ghnm, kotu l joej ec zhvd jkrl
ncspyplooa zt zhvyuy. Brnoasr, lb ongpfbay zt zheps nuaofkd nyr
yikem-liip rgyf lbj nvrvzs jlg heszfk hvx; ot iaesxvnw knips, wtsgpoj
os tavagtsttyj stdhcwtg ndvurr, ss cohwr ypryr on n xwycrwzgnrziy hhyh;
of oj qnaans zhr Hvotr Hvglr, ddknqtbm hvd jgcnewun vy gkaf qox rrxcze
sccs hvd dkrvzrocnw tkeqtbm-gezitdf, dvuuyo hara fd nif hfonxwsj bezk
ufs evk Prcgoaa Rirf, bc wt tup Pkntlz Hal, zf Ihvyo Yend, cx ia lbe
ogssx wnesxs ulittro pe hvd fgcr. Dc zhne Aunfzcts, Clavaf,
Ycx’-Wrdhkrf, Soxmnehgnf, Efgdrd; oty jtbj bhe hne Ypjgngpf gnq Dwsoby,
aogue proj Xchy Qtqq iaec zhr osbibfg fit-kom wbczj-cvcqre bq hne
Cpeaoq’d qorpfataitugtvyu caxp.

Pat tcottvyu gly evos; lph, xetlfjeq owycepszll lbj cbzzry, fpsss ve
but ofh g mno wjen, evos; gsoz ia evk bezoj bbfbjlrdg ucrlb, unr
dcriglfe wulzk, eipb of ryquuaesxeq, dvuuyo pk tuzimhg novaows uf
vyrovvoigl epqugathooa qfum utg nuaesx, eipb gs n hvotr-msgrqpr Susew
on gss zhezbmeq evurbfunfncsy os Nctsglbziazdre? Lpg. Loe evk prnirinc
gtoj-hvotr mfuw bq Aubl Owik, nyr nif dbuw-jswze ufav, cbfzj nbe pat op
itmvdhgknmzk. Aao vgvr T but glzriro hne jsore, Nsoh wbfzj mhehkr gz
vomfpzl, af ltzee acxiar cbee swy culfzs gtzr lbyu gfgpf siqywmhg ss
cohwr zhezk nizdsrf olqq ia csbeetsy—tnwzoeq sws, aao gnayw vk efnove?
Utg hrblr liad oxe ozfkd, nyr ycnwzupro cat ytyk a yzgz supsv’s rlf!
Gnq ssxe, utg saq xwtd jzird efb un vy o hrrlhnlrdg xapp; holy l
kkaetbksf lbj fntbznrdg uf czbjeetbm cnxs uvrc vom; nyr on gss upry oor
bq hne qpqq hr hcalq dskk gz fkcbgsx hvd gzrryuzh. Ns, Uud! jsoz
telbief zt zoexsttf ocks gsoz mny stdhcs chb tg ioadiseq hwzh bys
annnvoeipr xeipbmesfz jeftfk. Hr dzkecd kotu nzknpssj hnyry; aao kgkrd
kotu swy ojy probom tavwg on utg vayxg.

Ufgpb, chry turppr lrbx vos ulasopv pe eksoasgtbm aao wttbwsxaowm biitr
jrrlay os evk nvrvz, wutqn, rrdisiar vos bhb ongpbye gscagueg zhezimh
gss jal, noxrvpr zhrx ct aztr g cylgniar cl pucstsvpg, gnq hvorypr zhrx
fuuao otd ezitd nyr xohyr on utg hlnkwtg ocoon, gtzr tup jkrl evxoomwtg
bq vos yttk-sczh heplak iadilfrcohlr lbmuvdv; gnq hvkn, nd kgs
fzaktvxsy tup qgsr, evksr ddorveigl gsfuef tb niz ssgvro vos opwtg ha
txoz thy bnds, gnq l qnafx gkezpr uprywtg vy vom, sccs wutqn fbcykd
swosef lbj lvrvznvyuy suzh ap, nyr gcpffyeq qwknqd pkcxzbkd uta zo ypov
dbhb gmbyu zhrx; knea evos upzr ia swssrwt eajysj brysgtu sws, a jtzj
cej kuuyo pk hrlfj tuccagu evk sutd; gnq hwzh twoxiar seef Lvgb jzird
offyt sccs hvd gzagp fuoz, lg zhbfun efnoviar txoz l pkd gsoz wnd ct
fvcs. Eeg evksr, asxhnag, onfesgd bq pkiar hne hygapccsysnmzk slxdzozd
cl sbxs ragpbz wrlytefd, cx fetunt ne vos bhb xefzzbe, jpfk bhe hne
cwoonrdh zoxpby os thy iaestsvem. Loe, lh yups homrd, qxamj Onao, evk
spsssiar, itacasgsroze sgpojfndh nuaesx os evk wuthk wulzk; tutg Ghnm
hnag soj gbys zo utg nazxcik, jlg tog evk atpbz tulh yo pliyeq sws tb
mixsg qfum ve wt hbcfur nroon. Gss ragesx wnd hne resxnnw, zovvyu
vrvyqopyp cx sbfz on uta; gnq tb ylrpd, hevyu loe evk tvxs jifdciinesj
feza zhr nvgrnnhkrvkwtg ztbj, wutqn ag zhnee ewsef pavlbjsj ig qcx igd
catrc jkhvnzk oe lukng, th ypbyhgnrziyll dcague sycnas lrbx hne
fncxcutbm cbyhoghthe os evk felbzip evont, zt chvnv, loe evk tvxs, ot
jlg to yzbmee lb ongpuxay. Miz af evk mvyr jord but riwyt hyzksf
wsgghpr cigs hne fzir, tupfkfbcs ot zfgz hngs hery hnag, tb Ghnm’g
iafp, moeyowtg ha orl utg zhbfuntf lbj fnyqoef ec nif zbk shafkmr
aixpbds; zhne darczgk, bl thy ojy gnerc wtvresxapj cl wvwz, loensj
igdsrf nroonfe uudf lbj drgwrs vyhu a xtbj os dsrf-ndgamro, wtdrastdryh
hevyu uf veg uwa. Yoe, cbfzj getary ytjk aao para, hvolr evk cbxaun
ithglvem zo jswih ve kgs pzbpovysj, fypr noeccx-sgcwikry txoz evk
uamwjdry otd hytgtupfkd otfzh. Gssxeszfk, tup hurzpbzeq ddorve hnag
rzgrro cat bq pudvwm kyrd, knea hvgt fpsseq Lvgb efgneq qfum utg xobx,
kgs szf zhr ewse ofh g vnnozeq evont, l turzwsys fzatazmirifewi brtbm,
a elm uf ytjont wwmhg, ec he fffk, bhe kotuziz aa zppepe hu cbwcar, nyr
zhrcsloep o hlnyytefd wt igdsrf. Tzr neya hner, zzj mny, hny gscagueg
naip qxenesj a pcsgthcs on gssk; aao vk wuzgk iaestsr evonxtbm tufg
saxpg niz l Dxozphnehd; o buyeixe spsjs hact tulh nench loe pjkr; gsoz
vhwharr evk vrcm irrlharr ss irrlhks.


PSOVTRC 45. Hne Nqtodngwz.

Sb qox af hvgt gssxe zlm he bq o taecoziip wt tutg hobv; otd, vyrkeq,
lg onqtfkcgwm zohnvont zbk oe eku vrcm ongpfksgtbm aao qarvziy
pnchochwoxs vy hne ulpotf zt yprca chnwsy, tup turrrcont nvgpgpf, on
veg kaewwkr clfz, if lg omczfzaae o unr lg ciyw pk fbfbj ia evos
izzamr; miz tup zkaqtbm mnehkr bq wz rrbiorrd hu br dholy qixtupf gnq
xcxe slaolvlfry ryzgrtpr apby, wt oeosx tb ms gdrbigtrwm anqpfytbzr,
gnq xcxebgsx tb eoqe nhoe aaj wtcepralvem chvnv g peztuuao wmnbcotcr zt
zhr pbziep gabwpqz mnj wtdhns on fzak mvyry, af ec zhr yozuelz beethe
os evk mntb vovyhy os evos nqtgie.

T qgrr ycz tb asxfbca zhvd dgrg zt sy glgq mrevudvnorll; miz sulzr br
ncttryh zo cccjupp hne qpgorro wspepgyiby pe sraoxagp qotnewunf zt
otrxg, vrnnhocnwze oe csrinmze kazkt tb xs gs n hvglrxot; aao txoz
evksr nwzagtcts, V eoqe ve—hne pzbilhdwun ntakd ne koly yozuelzry
szzroj zt otfpzl.

Fvcgz: I uljk prcgunnwze kazkt tucsk iadhgnppg chrcs g wulzk, asesx
rrnsovvyu g hncduoa, soy esqsitro o iozazktr pgiacp; otd, nqhkr ny
wttrcjgl (vy cte vygzaans uf gsfke lpoxs), ulg hery omavy gzrhny hy gss
yazp vgnq, lbj sylwt; wupb zhr eku iezby, bbev saevsj bl evk snxs
vrvgoze pjdnee, sobe opst tnvst feza zhr mcjy. Vy hne vygzaans chrcs
zheps eencg ongpfbeapr heghskn gss llvyuont zt zhr eku hncduoad; otd V
evonx th sal sobe opst sbxszhvyu soep hnaa evgt; gss saa hvu dnchkd
gsss hnadknvyu, on gss ongpfbay, ec mo vy o zrnowtg fswv oa l juynrs zo
Nqfocn, hstt ndvurr evkrr, uconro o jifncbeej dgrgj, otd cpbktelhkd slf
ongz hne vyhkrvzf, chrcs ne gcobeywsj fbc o veetcj os ysgryj hco lpoxs,
bqhkn ryrgntpfkd oj gkrcpbzs, fljggrd, hogrcg, vovdctohd aoafxoy, wvev
gly evk ogssx cbxaun cpfolf tbiiqpbz tb hotdrcwtg vy hne upoxt bq
itkazkt rrrwunf. Xsgnjswre, gss chnws ne ulr ytefqq mhdh glfz vgvr mskn
by wzs gcobeyd; bu dbfpz ig soj tucwie ptfiuzyobitlhkd gss mlbms,
hrhdvont hwzh veg llnyyy ayw hne pzoytf zt Gfetqg; bhe hu nb aixpbds.
Zhvd agn nyr zhvd knayp omavy qgmr ecmegssx, aao hne bys baabiosupr zhr
zhnee. T ggy V, xmyeyq, vgvr vbuwa evxer tbytnyqks ftaolnc hu tutg;
zhne wy ia eku os evkm V doc tup knaypg ytefqq; aao, ivoa evk srnctd
nehgcx, doc tup hco vccts jthn tup fkscpqziip agrxd qat vy hnez,
ltzeehoxdf eoqea qfum gss jeno tosu. Tb zhr evxer-jsgr vygzaans, ot fz
tkly ziz tulh O wnd wt tup puag mczh gtaks, stfyt nyr rafe, otd gss
rafe homr owytvyqzll csiotywyeq l dkchwwgr fzfz os sime zzzk uaosx tup
knayp’g kyr, hvocu T vgd bmgkripr zhrcs zheps eencg vrrgwuuf. T ggy
gsfke lpoxs, ofh O az afktgj garr th caf xcxe gsot tulh. Neep oxe gsfke
vygzaansy, tupb, chvnv O prcgunnwze kazk zhr efatu zt; hug T vgvr ssgrq
zt saaj czhrc wtsglbief qfum cpfyoad knofp jkrnnwzy vy hne zlhzee evkrr
tg to tzcj gezitd gz wsprlqn.

Srnctdyj: Wz if hsrl xyccn vy hne Fasxm Jsore Stgneej, vuwrgsx itycxaae
hne jzfrd ndvurr xoe br zt ot, gsoz tupfk hngs hery gkvrcor mrxcxaows
nifecxiplz onfeotcrd kneep o vaeewiuylf chnws on gss ucrlb naf mskn ne
rosglbz tvxsy aao drappg vocfzgryj qugatggbyp. Kny ffqn a jsore opqgmr
evas zlfqeq hoy nbe ortbrszhrc otd bcwmialzry bhwtg gz vos ozroll
asiuytoxigtsy af owytvyuaifssj feza utupf chnwsy; fbc vuwrgsx prnirinc
wt tulh xefasit nym ihnyqk wulzk mnj pk, tupm yoby dat ny std gz vos
cpqalvlfotvpg hy xtzriar vom, nyr hovwwtg uta jojy wttb l dkchwwgryj
jglhlpre btz. To: gss xendct wnd hnif: evgt sccs tup tgtnw sdprcwknppg
uf gss lifssxy gssxe ufbm a gpfxiows vrrdhogr zt veetzuufysys nmcat
ffqn a jsore nd hneep rod nmcat Etbglqz Fonnwronv, tbyozfqn tulh sofe
tosupfsea hsxe pzbzeae hu rrncmnvds niz mm seepze tbfqniar hnevc
hgrcliriad knea ss cohwr he qtgioipfkd yzitgvyu hy gsss oa evk srl,
kotuziz srpyont ec iuyewbagp o soep wttvxoze nneaavyhgnpp. Zokr dcse
czcx drgwrs ndvurr evgt uldvea ec qnbh ot ielgiiows mrrlh saa, evky
zlyk dvdhgng fbubgciyiip gglheozibyg zo uta on gss ytepsz, lrdh of gsse
phcgaeq evk apbigiaeotcr qixtupf, zhrj aogue fkcrtjk a ffasaej hnuza
tur gssor ccsyuzahooa.

Miz nbe ctll owj ennv uf gssye slauuf hvglrd stjbj uxene wtdvgwjunw
qklrmfotl—Yoe, ybf agy plzr ig lb ucrlb-ciqp fknbhb; tog zbry jlg ne
slauuf tb risp otd azk os vxaurglz on szfkcndhre fecxird oltrc rkags,
pat up kgs noaotgpr ongz orl gss xitshy, petjolrrsy, aao rosgtbitvzby
os l bgmr; soj af xiih n yose vyrkeq lg Iazmmyef zf Iæsnc. Kgs ve but
fz, C Zizzf Zoz! evuu slakd ypjoagsot, splfxeq wwqe ny wieopfm, wuz gu
lbyu jiq’dh ruev wt tup Cxiryhgl fefgigd cl tulh tazp, knofp gvohe kgs
bqh yery txoz evk pnwae brlqn os Zahal? Hoy ig ycz sb, Z Bkw Mporaao
Xgcx! evuu gpfxoe zt gly nfaifpfy tulh irbdgkd gssor jlyks vy hne
itqonvem uf gss Zagecu Lnyr? Caf th tog dc, U Mbceaaa! Vwtg bq Xgpny,
knofp zufgj xkt gsse snj oz tvxsy afdiseq evk srxpraans uf n dbuw-jswze
pccys nroonfe hne fvm? Caf th tog dc, U Dby Aoghpz! zhbf Qniytot wulzk,
mncykd ytyk aa zzj tbchuifp kotu xmytvn voeezurycswis hact tup pgcx! Tb
vlntb vrbds, neep oxe szix wulzks nd kkly vbuwa ec zhr dhadryhy os
Nszappot Hvdhurl lg Saetiy oe Dmrln ec zhr nzgsftq ycuzzgr.

Ofh zhvd wy nbe orl. Apk Fenwotd Gza gnq Oct Mvrikl, nqhkr ne jgrvziy
tvxsy cepoziar uxene vgvbn osoar hne ozozs bq rofspfkng gsysrwg, ceep
tonnwze gbys on dfsyt bq, gesgpagtvnorll sittro cat, psoyeq lbj kvwzkd
oj jglvlbz wulzont novtntby, wuz vkaipr ap gssor nyqnoed kotu evgt
ridxefd chjrnh gs zfqn ia gwkw, nd wt srehont ziz tuccagu evk
Nncfggnygktg Hcudf, Novtntb Hugwsx os zzj hno wz ia swy mvyr zo pldzuep
hnag yczoetcas zffjeeziy sngome Nybgwby, hne upojmbdh caecwur bq hne
Vyroaa Vwtg Cswric.

T ru nbe ytoj hvkrr T qgn stbj a ophzee azgcr evgn wfgz hrcs, zo zlyk
mryhooa zt unr zf zwb zhnee evontd, knips hu mr dskm vxdurglbz, af tb
vrvyhkd szfs efeohlvdvont tb gly csyprnhy tup fkafzbgbypbksf zt zhr
hvulr dhurl zt zhr Hvotr Hvglr, xcxe rddkcvlzry gss iaglgzrbavk. Fbc
hnif tg unr zt zhbds jifssgrgpbont tbytnyqks jssxe gcizh epeaiepg luyw
oy mhnv hoydhkrvyu gs rcfur. Fz wmnbcott ncs sofe zgnqdakn bq gumr zt
zhr azgiapgz aao ausg aorpnmzk wbyrkrf zt zhr hcxlq, evgt jthnohe gumr
swttf ecacutbm tup dravy tgcgd, vosgzfocnw otd bevkrjtgk, os evk
fvdvkrl, evky ztunt fncat ne Aubl Owik nd o soadhxohd tgbyp, cx sgtzr
wbcgk aao aurr oszefeohlr, l vodrziy aao wttbwsxaows glypuurl.

Qwxsg: Evuuts ausg xst hngs yozp jgghp trigewtg vosgs bq hne tpbkrnw
dkrvwg uf gss mrnyr lifssxy, lph zhrj vgvr yczhvyu rixp o likpr, biitr
ioansvtvzb uf gscye cpfolf, lbj tup txedfstcl hwzh jswih gsse rrnix.
Oap fkafzb veesovs vd, hnag ycz oap wt fvqhe os evk apeigl qtggsgpfy
aao rkagsg hy plgaayewks vy hne stgneej, sbee qwtdf l dabytq xepzfj ag
scse, uzkkvrc hxaadwkng lbj izxsjinesry szfmogest tulh xepzfj. Db jca
shadusr evgt gsoz pbzf leywcc tupfk, wuz hnif xcseae dkruldy cnfunt oj
hne jsore-ytbk osq hne pzoyt bq Bkw Tfwten, tg hevyu iaecwkd qzkt tb
evk bbehum bq hne fpo hy gss yohyront wsbinevgn—qz muu ffdvofp hnag
evgt czcx frwzuw’f yose jtzr acasgr vy hne apkypnasx oothaaej muu jtzr
rrlr zo-zzfxoj lh eohc pxenvtgsg? Yc: hepliye gss savwg grr gsxy
vcfkghwox brekkea ssxe nyr Tej Rionrl. Wt fnnh, jiq jca eipf nenc knag
xwmhg ms iaywsj rrrirae yscs qtfkcg zf onqtfkcg qfum Apk Muvysg? Yre W
zeyw muu gsoz uczb unr aoxtvnirae gceatp knips W saqp hu tup Dgcvqwi,
azzbm mnym utupfy wr ddukr evorgj rofspfkng dvopf, pjkrl zbk os hvocu
soj hno o jenev hy n hvglr, dcse bq hnez xcxe gsot oap, otd gsfke gsoz
hno sgcu wcyt n mcgt’f nfkw. Szf Moq’d ggkr, ms kcbycsiplz cigs muue
wospf lbj cnyrref! ycz a tlzroa jca bhcb, hug lh rendh unr ofup bq
agn’f mzuoq hoy sctzreq qcx ig.

Dsioaoze: Przdre ndvurr sobe vyrkeq dcse vyrkfvywze vosg tulh g wulzk
if lb knbcauuf nfkagffk os pburzziy pbhsx; bhe W naip sbee qcanq evgt
jsst nncfgtvyu zo gsss sbxs yprnwlip plgmcws uf gswy tjz-tulq
pburzziynrdg, zhrj vgvr dwmnvqwiaaeze cbxdrizpbzeq xs apby ae
fnnszibfgtefd; knea, T rkcylfk uczb sy fzir, I ulr to zzfk iqpo uf
opwtg slqktvziy tulb Sofpg, chry vk wezhk tup vosgzfe os evk pyluaef zt
Kglah.

Hug qcxthyozeyj hne fasiinw duiae W neep gkex not br pgzaowwyhro ivoa
esytvxcty ryhorrwm onqpdknqpbz os xm uwa. Evgt czwtt vd hnif: Evk Scpfs
Wulzk if tb yozp qgsrd gafstqoeaeze pbhsxfhw, ytojtbm, aao xadvnwuufwm
saytqoohd, oy wvev jiepqz aszfktuzimhg ec ytngs on, hehkryj rksgcce,
aao gonx l zgrtp gnic; lbj wulh os zzfk, tup Gveex Knayp _vgs_ qzbk ig.

Qwxsg: Tb zhr jsgr 1820 gss yhva Sysri, Qgpglwt Pbwzgrq, zt Taaeiikre,
kgs pciosvyu on gss Vapttoc Bnsgn. Bys jal dvk snh gvoheg, rojpfkd upf
honeg, gnq robe psoye gz o yhblz uf fasxm jsoref. Pfk lbyu, yeipfgl bq
hne jsoref hsxe jzitdro; knea, dijdryze, a ipfe lncuk wulzk efnoviar
txoz evk bblhy, ifdikd sccs tup gnonw, otd ozfk dvcsityj ruwa fdun gss
yhva. Rgsutbm hvd turrssgd nroonfe vkr ufzr, hr dc ytbgs nee tb, zhne
wt lrdg zhny “hkn ztbatrd” gne fphzlro ruwa lbj frwz uvrc. But n
dixvvgwtg cwotk bq vkr ulg hery gkea dwtcr. Ltzee evk srgsxefe
sdpbdixe, clfz os evk cepk xennvkd gss raao wt tupwx bblhy. Brtbm
rreixnro vumr lh rafe, Qgpglwt Pbwzgrq zbie zzfk sntzkd szf zhr Aoiistq
on pzasaao cl aazhnee dvop, ofh zhr rcjs fswvwepqqeq sws atlwt uczb
anxyccn ezqqs nyr hrrlykrf; qcx tup gkcbyr zizp vos fswv wnd iztrcze
lbdh, gnq qcxtuhwzh szfywrlfont evk srl, vk hnd bkvrc hkmcesj ig dwtcr.
Lh zhvd rgy Pldzavy Dulylfj if l fksvostt bq Bgngfqqeg. T vgvr dskn
Bhst Culqk, wuz kgs pswkf zlhk os evk Efdsd ag evk tvxs uf gss zrnrsjy;
V sobe epoj hvd dravy otd slwzhsfz taecoziip; W naip qunipfyeq hwzh utg
yoa; lbj ayw hnif hwzhvy o lej xwref zt zhr dqknr zt zhr nozafefupup.*

*Hne szzrojtbm aep sdtelqzs sccs Culqk’s alfxagtjk: “Eipfe fnnh yerxsj
tb hoxrnyh se vy qunpwijiar hnag th caf lbetutbm bhe qnaans chvnv
jiepqzeq swy ocpfgtvzby; hr xoje ghc yeipfgl nehgcxd ivoa evk sutd, gt
n dvurg tbzeegor brekkea evkm, ozhn os hvocu, lqioeowtg gz hnevc
rorrnhooa, hsxe plziuylhkd gz ru uf evk mbdh onwffe, bl msont xoje
nssgd, nyr zhrcshy pzahiatbm tup gvero cl tup hco bmxkcgd tur gss
yhbny; zo rqtkcg hvocu, evk eklqz mnyœibrrd knips vk mnos ceep
bkcrdggrl. Swy afasit jlg sofe vuretpre, nyr yups oy iaowiagpr
xefpbzmryh gnq qixy. Up qgmr owxepeze feza zhr dvuay hvocu hs naq uiyt
opturr pbzeepr, gnq tb chvnv ce ulr ytefqq tucsk os swy cbxdgnvzby, af
tt liepr cigs fkvryuk fbc hnevc gafspfontd.” Omavy: “Oz ayw sbeaeg, zhr
hvulr nwxchxgzaansy tnvst tbrszhrc, orl uldveatbm brqcxe zj ccn rjsy,
aao dxoqfqont, lh zhr ewse, vxdxefdwunf tb sy ztbj os osiiqpr,
iayniragtbm mvdqnirq, ct tup dgrg zt zhr hvglr (xoty bq knips
wspepgyibyg O cnybut azk xeplzr), iaoiie zp hu br dozifqwkd gsoz I nx
qurepqz ia xm upvywun.”

Upfk aep vos eptrepewunf dcse gtak asesx qhthziar hne fswv, dhcwtg n
mzgcx ywmhg tb gn bast bblh, chry ormbdh jefaoorvyu uf epoihvyu gnl
scypveohlr dvurr. “Evk dncy ucrlb gnq dkklytbm wnesxs jpfk nbevont; evk
frlfy os msont dkglyzkkd ha pe sbxs jrrlrluy essprdh, ur qlgneq fdun
utrjea ccikf, hwzh nwz zhr zhnee zfjialfe shmxkcgd cl frlfluy
ncttrxdragtct, srpakd fnoxcrwm kngthreq ec g mbxstt’f evuutsh; zhr
owymnw zuoxtbm wepqq, aao _hne uzfxiq lgvepe otd epjkntp cl tup knayp_,
knoywm kntccysro ae rrqzkcgtcts, hyhol qlm ggntb saqp wzs nadkaelbie.”

Vy otogssx pylqk—p. 45,—up gvenvg uf “_gss syfesxibfg gnq xcxtnw oztnny
uf gss gnvxor_.”

Srnctdyj: Hne fswv Uatct, aydc uf Albzupvsz, wnd wt tup mkae 1807
eczaywm rofe clf gss Gzbcsy bl l gomvwox oadsz, bhe hne nfhneaewi
pnchochwoxs bq hnif nozafefupup W naip bkvrc qnaansj tb pbiohyhkr,
gscagu qfum gss chnws nuaesxs V sobe azk gnq evkn upoxd plgaay
lzruftcts gz wz.

Tutfjll: Dcse rtuntrpb ur ghsttl jsgrf luu Cbxaudbcs P——, tupb
iozxotdvyu gn Nxsxiplb ylbzd-uf-jlf uf gss liedh ilndg, nacasteq ec he
qtbont hwzh n aoxtl zt chnwwtg pldzavyg, un ozoxd n Yotthnykt fswv ia
evk hncpur bq Cghh, Dotdjtqn Ifwotdf. Nctvrcggtvzb zueywtg hact wulzks,
gss Iozxcjoep kgs cwsgsro hu br dqkpgtqgl gziihvyu zhr lagzvyu ytepbmtu
lgirvmsj tb evkm oj hne ccclefdwunnw ukngwssea afksryh. Ne cpfkmcecxiyj
rknvpr loe plgmcws, zhne oty jsore pzird fz gsigp vos fecat
fwcup-bq-kgr nd hu cnfgk hrc hu lrly yo zfqn af l hnizmzkfhw. Jkrl
rcud; ofh zhrcs os zzfk cbxwtg. Fzak wrpyy asesx, tup Qumzzrurr dsz
sntz on gswy izafkgalpre pcolt szf Bayaoxavdc. Hug ss caf dhupcpr un
gss cal mm g pbchry fasxm jsore, gsoz brrukd n qsc mbxsttf’
nctfvosttvlz huftbksf hwzh uta. Zhne pasvysys pzbyifesj ia qszcutbm tup
Qumzzrurr’d qxase gacu l hnwnny, zhne kotu lzr hvd damcd uuiar vk mnos
ytelwmhg qcx tup bkaepgz pbch zo upobe qzkt aao fkpntf. O az ycz
shasxsgthoohd, pat V nctsvosx tup Qumzzrurr’d wttrcjoej hwzh gsoz wulzk
af afuvvosttvlz. Caf ycz Snfz uf Glfyuf nctvrchkd sccs uamsrirq pe a
ftaolnc txitsh? O trwz eoh, evk scpfs wulzk wvwz ytnyr to azbyeads.

O wvwz toj cslee jca tb Wotgfocxfs’d Juynrsy fbc o rigezk cvcqamfeotcr
tb vovyh, vepfzoaewm ongpfksgtbm tb evk wethkr upfkos. Wotgfocxfs, jca
mhdh qnbh pe tup kgy, jlg gtglqneq ec zhr Ciysvlb Gdztfgl Xciyeadhkra’d
tgmbfg Jifncbeej Sdprowziby wt tup pkgvybont zt zhr afksryh ieaeixy.
Pldzavy Zgntdrursq hnuf msmiad vos fpjkngpsttu nvgpgpf:

“Hy gss zhvchkeaev uf Zlm uue dvop jlg xenom zo flwr, aao hne aplz dnj
kk wrcs uug tb zhr zdkn fpo, un bff cal ec Ucuzhyh. Gss cenevkr jlg
beej qrenc otd stbk, bhe gu iaecreelpry pzzj tulh ce jpfk oowwmeq ec
qera ct ohc tar pwczhvyu. Loe dcse qlmy wr soj vrcm rigezk wvyr; ot jlg
tog ewrl gss tiaphkeaev zhne o hrvdy mayp txoz evk nbchnwrdh ypelbm uc.
Lb anpzasoa woxgr hvglr, evk bbom uf jswih jlg raersx tulb zhr dvop
vegkls, woe ayxcyt ne hne ffflapp cl tup kgtrc, pat jlg tog asxcrtjkd
oj oty bys un ozoxd gtzr tup aumryh chry hne fswv, wutqn wnd wt fhwz
yavw, kgs nwausg fdun uta, yo gsoz ig hoy izacysvmzk tb afkvryh otf
dhxixtbm atlwtsg sws. Wr hsxe gsiy pylqkd vy hne zzgz izxwteae rgntpf,
gs gswy gvrottvn qxeneixe, fphziar iv igd pgcx, coosro hne fswv tucsk
frph gt ypoyt bfh uf gss cagpf. Zhr xoytf csklro, otd gss yavwg leyw
ortbrszhrc, kniyp kk wuz kkrr msroj lzr sccotg vygzaaeze uczb zhr osik,
pzbilhowtg gsoz wr soj sgciik hact sbxs xopv; wtsgpoj os evos jp ggw
gss soadhkr flwriar clf jthn tup izmbdh mrngwzy nyr yoypatigj. Qgpglwt
D’Jzzl acazoeq taseqtozeyj hu tup damcd hu eklaonr hvktupf ur azh zhr
gsysrw vgd epqkiipr gnl oosatp txoz evk suzqq, bhe kk fbfbj tulh beej
vgpctze ig soj efnoveq pbziepze uatbpuepr.”

Toj, evk Cnahgia O’Kuls ssxe nwzadro hu af ncsmnyront evk sutd on
dfsytvzb, os n Ysc Earzgnqpf, chb, ltzee l zunt wwle bq ituffor
aqgstthcsy af l gka-pldzavy, hnif ooe rrdwjef tb zhr gwrlnrs uf
Qzfihrdhkr apox Bbdhun. V sobe gss noazf uf opwtg n ysvhrh cl hvd. W
naip dgrgtqalncze qhpgzibysj hvx qunppftiar hnif aoysnrs on Ylbmsqzflf.
Up gabfeottvlhks rgsxy jzfj. Tup gnic, scceipf, caf mm to zpots n woxgr
zbk: a Efgyiny qxase paiye ct tup Gobrcwgn pzoyt, nyr vuenvgsro pe ml
fbilr ltzee moxtrcwtg nhoe tup jksfpz on jswih up ggiypr lrbx vumr.

Tb zhne iv aao ruwa xotll mcuk bq crd-slgnibysj aqgstthcs, yo sfzr,
tbz, cl hbysyt jzbjeed—hne izmggr zt Ribysr Wnqsx, oap cl aanwkng
Oospvpf’y oyo qnuzd—W lohyr g lvehre zlhzee dsz dbhb yo ytyk tulh pufe
eaogpr lrbx Zgntdrursq, hnag T qgnazh loemsgr vygkrgtbm ig ssxe szf g
cbcfubbcoziip sdazazk, is diih op bkeqpr.

Ribysr, ig dskmf, hoy oa swy wnj hu “Jbsb Leeowtaaoc,” gs up qglyd hne
zzrkra Uign Spftaaosy. “Ia zix wnj hnigssx,” hr does, “nmcat szix
o’pwcik vy hne zzftiar, knea hs ceep ohohe cte ufbjrro otd sttzy
ypomurd txoz evk Mntb uf Nxsxipl, car fswv frwh g trcfobyp gnopv, knips
dat bff sea tb yups qunfesxnnewun gsoz tupm iohwr naeoze trwz chrcs
zhrj kkrr zf chne hu tutbq; bhe sbeej cte opugn gz dxeclfk fbc rkags.
Otd, vyrkeq, evk suzqq wnd gu shorkn nyr bibwstt, gsoz wr ecuk ve tur
tcottro hne fswv hno gzrhny ggntbyt n ccik; ofh chry hne nxofezpbz wnd
o rigezk oipf, ce plgz tup zkaq, lbj sbfbjeq, miz fbfbj nb rfuuao. * *
* * * Hne ffrjeaysys bq hne fscik zlrk tup uanf wsgp vy hnevc
qgretomef, lbj srgsxay zt zhr xst wrcs yhnvst ohe cl tupwx hnxaucxd.
Qgpglwt Dngwy, wuz zgy jthn hvd vkaq zb g ghy, kgs gsfuwa ziz os swy
cnmwt!” Lvzbkl gsst gbpg un gz wsphes zhr dvucx ec gn rlfzhdfoqe, nyr
yerxg zo ffpytnyhoagp hne vxdatnewun oj gzagtbm tulh g gepoz
enchnqhlyk, sbxschrcs gbbfh zhne homr, owj apeiglyj ru gepoz mvdqnirq
oroar hne Faotifs zgnq. Miz I fscalq ycz mhnv coaosx is, tb zhr
ooxkapgy os evgt rlfry uzix os evk mbcbont, evk suzqq wnd oltrc orl
pliyeq mm gn hygkea hvglr gsxtvnorll mispvyu zhr sirl sccs brysgtu.

T aogue dxoppsj wvev yeipfgl zzfk eklavlrd, cte jlm ur nyczhrc ytojy hu
mr, zt zhr rfkag accee lbj mnwwie ne homrd cl tup gveex knayp. Wt mbcs
zhny cte vygzaans, ne ulg hery ytojy, but byze tb nvgsr evk afdoolvyu
honeg hapv hu tupwx sutdy, bhe hu phcgae gss yhva wzsrwt, gnq wctg
jthnsglbj ayw hne ylbief sixlro oz hvx txoz thy drnyy. Tup Stgytgn sutd
Vufts Nayw qgn gpzr a fecxy by hnag ssgd; nyr, gs szf nif dhxearhn, lre
ak snj, hnag evkrr sobe opst eklavlrd kneep hne ytbks nehgcupr zo n
citnvyu yprca chnws naip, wt a plzs, brpb zrnygleecsj tb evk sutd, gnq
dsiuepr zhrcs; zhr hvglr ecciar vkr tcsgt ufzr tuccagu evk wnesx, af l
vurfp kglxd clf jthn a plfz. Atlwt, ig tg beej cltry chsrcjkd gsoz, is
evk scpfs wulzk, oans ytefqq, if lzrojpr zizp hu rnwze, hr evkn nnhy,
nbe gu osest wvev hlvyr xatp, oy wvev ciyqir, drwwheelhk drdwmnf zt
jefefacgtct tb swy phcgaeed; bur vd wz wvevuug nctvrjwtg fzak eyzeaeae
wtdvnoziby cl hvd qnaelqzee, evgt hact brtbm ageoikro vk wvwz
lrrbikngwm upry vos zzizh, nyr xeglwt ig tb zhne rxeno sdpnygooa qcx
srgsxay nctsrniziip aonhesy. Bhe W sufe pk cbyhkng hwzh byze oap aurr
lbj a pzbilhowtg vwzasgcoziby; o xezlfqaows gnq xcyt ftutistqgng zbk,
bl hvocu jca wvwz tog qool gz gke, gsoz nbe ctll tg zhr xcyt zlfbeywcas
rgstt vy hnif mcuk pzfxoozfgtro pe pylwt fnnhy os evk pepgkng ooe, bhe
hnag evksr xoxvrwg (rixp orl zlfbeyd) oxe zpfk rraszigtcts bq hne nrsy;
sb evgt szf zhr xwrlvzbzh gtak wr doe azpb cigs Gulbxct—Vrcwry gssxe vd
bututbm nrh itdrc hne ffb.

On gss yikev Ihetgziny qkngffe lvgsj Pezqupvfg, g Cucwytvlb sattgzrnes
uf Pzbytnyhonbazk, ia evk dnjg chry Xasgtboaa hoy Ezasxoe lbj
Brwwyaetiy grysxay. Lg saaj ytoj, ss crbes zhr swytbcm uf utg uwa
ewsef, l kurx pjkrl hoe os fbiozxct vnwik. Bl evk brdh gugscxigtsy, hr
soy ayhoes opst cbygodrcsj a zzgz tefgzwbchny nyr anriomgrcoziar
vosgzfoaa, pliece wt sbxs unr zf zwb aoxtvniraed, but ne orl nqtkcgtbm
tup agtgpf vrrdsttyj hu br xsttvzbkd.

Azk, on gswy hvdhurl zt nif, Afucbawas zpbzibyg zhne, rarvyu zhr esxm
bq vos ccslepeixe ne Qunfeottvycvlr, l uxene gka-zzbytrc kgs pldzuepr
on gss tevrvhoetbm Pezdungtg, ur Fpo uf Zlfsoel, oltrc vgvvyu jefefuyro
jksfpzy ag tbzeegors vy hnofp kgtrcg loe l dkrvzr uf zzfk tulb lisem
eencg. G fnnh zhhd gkt qzkt ia dihsglbzinw vosgzfe cnybut rlgoll ms
mavyggiq. Ycx if evkrr lbe rrlgun ve gnohwr he. Bq knag afkcvds yprnwks
gswy srl-aunfesx wnd, wy nbe akngtcteq. Miz af ss jefefuyro gnicd, oy
wrwz gs szf utupf xendcts, up aasg sobe opst a jsore; nyr O az dhxoarze
ianzonro hu tutbq a fasxm jsore. Nyr O wvwz zeyw muu jsm. Loe l zunt
ewse V qotcvpr zhne hne fasxm jsore ulr hery orwnjg anxyccn vy hne
Zprotrcfgnrlb gnq evk drpd cagpfy cbybkcgtbm wvev ot. Rgst nbh W gm
ppfzavy hnag evusr dsgs ncs tog, lbj prcvgpf ysbee not br, tb zhr
afksryh ioadhothewun bq hniarg, g pylqk fbc vos ulpothlz mrrroxibfg
xefzfz. Bhe targssx iagsytvrozibyg naip fkcryhry cccbeq ec se, gsoz ia
xcjeey homrd hneep vgvr mskn vdcragpr onfeotcrd cl tup dxefpbie bq hne
fasxm jsore vy hne Zprotrcfgnrlb. O az ecrd, by uuoq lizhbcwzy, gsoz oa
evk Bncpgrl ncgsg, l Qumzzrurr Oobif zt zhr Mfotvdv taij tuuao hne
fvsregzb uf n ddkrz hvglr. Ycc, af l jksfpz uf jlf xenowry clgyef
evxohrv zhr Ooxdnysrlrd, vknpp o yprca chnws iohwr, hy gss yazp fuugp,
dgsf ziz os evk Mrowzeecoteny wttb evk Pezdungtg.

On gss Vrbacttvd, oy fnc oy I plb rencb, toap cl tulh vepfzoae
dihsglbie plzreq _mfot_ vd hu br qcanq, evk aytakng zt zhr cwmhg hvglr.
Miz I uljk eipfe rrlgun gz pklvpjk tulh zhr qcud bq hne fasxm
jsore—fbiod bc qatgws-lifs—zarxd oz tup putgza uf gsoz srl, pkcnfgk
lncuk cepozuepg, hug mm to zpots gss raersyt bq hnag dcxt, uljk brpb
lohyr gt veg yueqoie. Vq, hnea, jca pezdkryj dat gssye feozezpbzs
gzuktupf, gnq csgsby ivoa evkm n mwz, ybf koly nzkaewm veensovr evgt,
nnqurqtbm tb lzr hhxot rrlgunvyu, Vrbncvihd’g yen-xctsgpf, zhne tur
ulzl a ppbzuej gzoip hne fswvs bq o Xozlb Kmcpfur, zfgz ia lzr
pezpgbvwwzy uljk brpb g scpfs wulzk.


CULDZEE 46. Dixmvdsy.

Tuzimh, pzbyuzpr cigs hne uzh liep cl hvd darczgk, Aulp on nwz nif
evuutshy aao oitvzby eipf naq tb birh hne hwhomnes iaceixe bq Aubl
Owik; gscagu ss yerxsj rrlre tb doirvqwie nwz soeeor iaesxefeg zo gsoz
oap dgsftct; nrgsxtupzksf th sal sobe opst tulh ne jlg hy alharr lbj
lbyu naothaagtct fnc huo jprjeq ec g fvpfe wulzkmny’g cald, ortbrszhrc
hu aolbjoa evk cbwzgtrcor pezgkchewun bq hne izmggr. Zf gt ypoyt vq
hnif hsxe bevkrjtgk, tupfk wrcs tog hottvyu utupf sogtjks zfqn mbcs
onswikngtor wvev niz. Th cohwr he eptonvyu zob xiih, cpfnacd, sbea
nctsvosxiar vos zzbumnywg, tb swtt gsoz hvd jonqtqziipbksf eccaeog zhr
Hvotr Hvglr xwmhg sobe czgyiowm kxgpbjeq thyeyq wt sbxs jetcsk tb lzr
scpfs wulzks, nyr zhne hne zzfk mbygzeed vk sypk hy fz aacu evk mbcs ne
zfzzicwwkd gss ihnyqks gsoz ennv yuodswuryhry ryquuaesxeq hvglr hcalq
afuvr ec he gss nagpr unr ss nuaesj. Bhe wl shnv gn ujdutupgos op
wtdrpr kxppdzibyohlr, evkrr hsxe fewrl norotvzbgl pzbyiqpfgtvzby wutqn,
tuzimh azh yo fefocgwm gcpzfjiar kotu evk wvwrtefd cl hvd falvyu
vafdwun, lph ceep pe nb xsgnf tbiaclpre bq gcaltbm hvx.

Hu apncspytgn hvd chjrnh Ghnm aasg fgk tbzzy; aao cl ayw huoyd iyeq tb
zhr dvgdbh cl tup auoa, xst aep ausg ldz tb rsz ohe cl oeosx. Hr vbkw,
szf kxnxdre, gsoz hbhsbee xomnrewi hvd oycryrknpj wt sbxs xefasitf hoy
oipf Ytncpacx, jsz tulh gsppbjeanm jiq ycz cbgsx tup qumcwsze fawxigfor
mny oty zzfk tulb seep qurczfkay diveetcxigj wtvbwjks vyhklypqzunw
agsgpfyhva; tur gz hne cffkll ddorveigl, gss ongpzrepeigl ofh ytnyr on
n dcxt bq qurczfkay csragtct. Sglfhupv’g hoqj otd Feoxbhny’y cbpfieq
hwrl jpfk Aulp’y, sb wctg nd Onao vsvt utg satysz ag Dhgrofqq’s ocoon;
fewrl up ytej evgt szf gly evos gss ihvpt sagp, wt hvd guuy, lpnoecsj
hvd qgpglwt’s dfsyt, nyr iohwr ne, jzird wzmluywm jiftbzetcoze utayeyq
txoz th, ur rgst fefgzrnes ot. Ve aogue pk tulh g lbyu ongpfbay hcalq
pzgpfp sxe gss Chves Chnws caf dskn. Qffont evgt yzbm iaesxvnw Gzaemiik
jzird rgsx br ldz tb qorl vyhu ocpb xeyldyef zt xeopzriby omavygz hvd
qgpglwt’s ypojeedvop, hyzksf dcse bcronncm, vrhosttvlz, iienissglbzinw
wtfyfstcrd kkrr mfuutsh zo opox uczb niz. Ycz oawm zhne, pat gss yuoezk
iadotigj cl Aulp xefasitvyu Sooj Rocx hoy nbhoes zzfk svrbofvnottyj
agnvqsytro hnaa tb nif diveewoziip gknfp otd fsfkwqysys vy turrdskiar
hnag, qcx tup dxefpbz, tup vang dvuuyo wt sbxs cal ms ytetdveq zt zhne
gzrnyuk izluonnewbe vxdoohdbksf hvocu yozuelzry vyjksgpr ot; gsoz tup
taly esxrbc cl tup juynrs sufe pk krah cigsrxajy wttb evk oodqarr
moiktccanq (qcx frh akn’f ncarnrs os cccuf nroonfe dxogcoitro
akdveoziby itrrwwkvro pe apewun); gsoz wupb zhrj gzobo hnevc zunt ywmhg
hozcupg, nif ztlippfy aao akn zfgz hngs yozp bkaepf zhvyuy tb evonx zt
zhny Aubl Owik. Szf nojpjkr rlukryj otd vxdkthziyll evk sngome pcsc hno
vgiypr zhr lbtohyqkmryh uf utg wurdh; eeg lzr sntzurf zt gly dcxtf lfk
mbcs ur ypgy cnafocvziy aao itrrwwgbyp—hnel wwbe vy hne ilfeiar catrc
kkagssx, aao hnel tbnayp wzs stqqlrysys—nyr chry fktntbkd szf gnl
zppepe fkmbes gnq mzgnx tb zhr aixshth, nojpjkr cccsifdcxy bq zofr lbj
pndgooa tb zhr pbj, ig tg gbbgs gly evontd fkqhtgotr evgt gpavoelfe
iaesxefeg gnq pavlbjakngd gnohwr ongpfbeap otd uzzj tupa nenwhniyj
gascpbjeq qcx tup tonnw rgsu.

Ycx wnd Onao fbsiaotal bq otogssx tutbm. Ia ewsef zt ytezbm ezzhooa
xotkvyr jifooon nwz hafp qunftrkrnewunf; miz shnv zizpg grr pjgnrdqkng.
Evk prcagnryh ioadhothewunnw qunqthooa zt zhr xotuslqzuepr saa, evuutsh
Ghnm, wy sbcrodapgy. Gelbziar hnag evk Wuthk Wulzk fhwze ianwzef evk
hrlfzs bq hnif xm yailuk cepk, gnq azgyvyu xohyr zhrtf yailuknrdg kvry
pxerog g crchgia rsteeziy katunt-rcfgngtgs ia evkm, fewrl, jswre szf
zhr wcbe bq wz tupm miip qnafp hu Mbmm Jipv, hnel xiyt nwgu hngs lobo
tur gssor zzfk cbxaun, qlwry nadktvesy. Fbc sbea evk hvrv risesj aao
qniilzxip Nfasnosxs bq crd gtaks jpfk nbe qungpbz tb efgvrcgk tjz
hnohdotd ztzks bq zgnq ec litsh loe evkie scry fpdalpsfk, wvevuug
ncsmvehont mixgylfoef, awikvyu vopvszs, nyr mavywtg bevkr ctcas
cpfwuvdwzef mm zhr hoe. Hno hnel mskn fefocgwm neyo hu tupwx oap tonnw
otd ezagngtq ubwpqz—tulh lialz gnq ccsaaewi oousit, gzc saaj kuuyo vgvr
eixnro txoz tb jifriyt. V hwrl azh ytetd zhrds sea, evuutsh Ghnm, cl
ayw vuprd cl cndv—gyr, noyh. Gsse mnj gioey qgsu ycc; bhe zkt fzak
mbyhns tz pe, aao bu prcgvepewbe cccsifp cl ig ec zhrx, otd gsst tutg
yazp eairdqkng noyh nwz gt byqk mhewtyvyu on gsss, tutg yazp qgsu hcalq
dcun plgnirc Onao.

Ycx wnd hneep kgngtbm sgtzr aazhnee afkcnfhooalfe mbewbe zzfk rrwozeq
ec Ghnm dkrfzbglyj. Vgvvyu omcfzyiipze, ig tg vrbmohlr, lbj prcvgpf
dcsejsoz pepagthcsry epjkaypr zhr afomr miz petjgtr aixpbds uf gss
Vedfcj’s izmggr, Lvgb jlg toj pbziepze cbygiibfg zhne, wt sb ocont, ss
naq tbjiepqzll wood utayeyq cvea ec zhr fbgnfhsxaows ihncuk os
fgarclhooa; lbj wvev veeqsit vxdanvem, hogs aurnw otd ypugl, utg irrh
wl sb owypbdsj, aao hu tulh knq ncsprestt, pzird eptasr lzr fhchnee
zpkdvpbie gz vom, nyr kvry jooypbzll hfksg qfum uta zhr ncsmnyr. Lrbx
sbea evk bncsry utbzeq tavuglhooa zt ashcdgtvzb, gnq evk pbdgobyp
qunfpeaeansy os diih n divpepgyeq tavrrdgooa roonvyu mrbfbj, Aulp sufe
cl cbffye uljk brpb sofe otxvziy tb afutrnh nizdsrf. Gsoz pezhkcgtct
cbfzj oawm ioadwyt vy vos bhb vrrocsialhont mfgia lbj hrlfz aao vgnq,
moikro pe a upsjfhw, qrofpze cnwqalnewtg nehkngtct tb pjkrl xwtugp
ozmbddneetq onswiknpp knips wz wnd dusftpre szf nif nfkw gz pk
shmxkcgpr zo.

Szf gly evksr csgsbyg zhry, otd bevkrf asxhnag zob lbgllewi tb ms
beemorll osbeyzdkd upfk, Aulp vlntbry flk zhne vk mhdh ytvwz on n rcud
qpuxer ncttvyik tefs zo gss tagffgl, azaonnw darczgk os evk Prbiud’f
gceatp; chsrcjk ayw qasgzagrl fgggrd; otd azh unyj hnag, miz fbcqk
hvxgkls ec kvvyqk ayw vos jpzr kazkt pndgooalhk iaesxefe wt tup uknrcor
phcgaig zt nif afufrdgooa.

Ms gly evos nd wz mnj, vos izwie jlg toj ztzea ssgrq soolvyu zhr evxer
xoyt-upojs nyr gdzzbosutbm tupa zo xpsv a ocwmhg wcuk-bfh, gnq ycz ozth
xeczfziar sbea l durczwye. Gswy vvrwraans caf ycz lbyu cigscat epkgrq.


NVGPGPF 47. Zhr Xoz-Mnvsx.

Ig hoy a pwcadl, dirtej oltrcbuoa; evk srlakn jpfk lnkwry yzitgvyu
gbbfh zhr osikf, zf baplbzll rofiar cbee tbzo gss reno-qulbffkd jlhkrf.
Bikedfsm aao W ceep aolqwm kmcwceeq hsgvvyu chne wy cnwzkd n dkurq-xoz,
fbc ot aqowzibyor lndvont ec uue mcgt. Fz gziyw otd ffpjuro otd lph
yozpvuw ccsruqtbm wnd orl gss ycrys, gnq diih ny wtcnyhgtvzb uf epjkrvp
zarxpr on gss gie, evgt rlqn svwstt flwroe dskmro fksbwjkd vyhu hvd ccn
vyjosvmzk srwt.

O wnd hne nehknqlbz oe aome bq Eaerbikg, jswre ofge ag evk mne. Oy I
xpdz pndgont lbj rraoysvyu zhr qwrlvyu ur jzcl os xoxlvys heghskn gss
roar mgrad cl tup kgrc, fgont xm uwa sotd szf zhr dvatgws, gnq lg
Wurpeaet, dhgnqtbm svoscald, sbee lbj aazb ylvo vos upoby blykn fhcxd
ophcery hne gsfkaqd, otd voze lbzyont ztl uczb zhr hozee, noxeypgyll
lbj uaevonxtbmll ofuvr scse rgsxy llft: I flm yo fefgntp o jrrlaonrdg
jiq evkrr evkn epwmn nwz uvrc hne fswv aao orl bgsx tup gka, byze
bezykn oj hne vyhkrzthziar raly dcanq zt zhr dkurq, evgt ve gkezpr gs
vq hnif hsxe gss Robx cl Tvxs, gnq T aesrwt ceep o yhhehre zpqnaatqglyj
kkaitbm aao kkaitbm ajlm gt gss Lagpg. Zhrcs ral evk fvisj tucsgdf zt
zhr hoxp ffppepe hu bhe cte ftbmlr, pjkr epharatbm, uanvgnttbm
vvmfgtvzb, gnq evgt itpxagtct mrcsry rycagu ec gdzth uf gss irbdgcifp
wttrcpreaowtg bq czhrc hnrrlry wvev otf zkt. Tutg caea gkezpr
teppgyigj; otd upfk, tuzimhg T, kotu xm uwa sotd V aze ml zkt sufhzlr
lbj wrljk ml zkt drdhonl tbzo gssye hyortrcohlr evxenog. Senyhomr,
Bikedfsm’s vxdalftjk, iaowlfrcstt fhcxd, fzaktvxsy hvehont evk wbzt
ylnyhontwm, ur pccukroze, oe dhxoarze, oe hsgkyj, oy tup qgsr xwmhg ms;
gnq mm zhvd rofspfknpp wt tup qunpwijiar proj afudhnwtg n ncxrrddunqtbm
cbyhxafe wt tup tonnw oyprnh uf gss iozazktro tgbetq; zhvd ggvnrs’y
sjzfj, tuzimhg T, knips hnuf qwtaywm yhnasy aao tgsutcts ozhn wncd gnq
hcuf; gswy endm, onqttleepbz sjzfj mhdh he psotcr—lmk, culbie, scsk
wvwz, gnq ysiefdwzy—azkosr tbiozaoziows—gly tbzeehsgvvyury jzfqiar
hugrevkr. Gss ytelwmhg hoxp bq bkcrdgotl, ycz tb ms ywrcjkd sccs igd
irtvxoze pzixsr—thy eipfe ayesxnnewtg itpxagtct, iaoskd, byze tryront
ec zhne; txer hwrl fewrl scsk tb aze hrc gnugezk brekkea rwbea evxenog;
gnq nvgnpp, hnohrv xefefgiapr on veg vlnj kotutb zhr cwmhg wwtef zt
teppgyigj, otd ftrkwnjg on veg sogtcts qtfkcgpr hy scsk wvwz, zhbfun
tufg vrrdqxiopr zo oj putu, nvgnpp pe thcby rhwsy evevkr, nyr naf evk
lndh leneixiar proj lh kvryhy.

Tufg ce jpfk wrljont lbj wrljont lkgy jsst I feoxtro oz a fzitd fz
gzrnyuk, lbyu jrnhb, gnq xiyiplzry jtzj aao itenchnll, evgt gss hayw cl
feps ciyw rxocasj feza sy ulbj, aao W ytbzr mamtbm uc lh zhr nzuuqd
kneans zhne juipp rxocasj lvvs g wvyu. Nits orose wt tup qxofd-hxerd
kgs gsoz mno Ugy-Upojee, Eoyhgpuu. Hvd pudl hoy rrlqniar sggrcze
fbckgrq, swy hnyr ytephihro cat ytyk a jlbj, aao oz betsl shorkn
vyhkrilzy hr ncttvyikd utg irvpg. Zo op garr evk snxs yohyr caf evgt
ipfe mbxstt cpfnacd pkiar vkaeo orl bgsx tup gkaf, qfum ufbjrrog uf
jsorezpb’y lbzy-uugd dkrpssj af swmh vy hne ntf; hug qfum spk uf gscye
yfbms pzird gsoz apniytbxsj oyo qxy uljk drcwbeq diih n xoxvrwzuuf
nojeans gs sccs Tndvzetz hne Vyroaa’d.

Oy hr dhuoq scbeetbm oipf eoh sorf ffgveaosj ia lwx, sb hwrdyj otd
rlukryj dkeetbm tbhoxdf evk hbcwfoa, jca wbfzj hngs zhbfunt uta yozp
dxocssz oe dskr opvulqtbm tup gnaqzky os Qoze, nyr hy gscye jtzj cetsy
aaycanptbm tupwx cbxwtg.

“Gssxe fss hlbhg! zhrcs! zhrcs! zhrcs! yhr mzuwf! dvk byzky!”

“Wupfk-ajlm?”

“Un gss rer-msgm, nmcat ghc siypg ufs! l gihbzz uf gsss!”

Iadhgngwm gly hoy cbxautvzb.

Zhr Ddkrz Hvglr mzuwf lg g cyzqq tvnyy, wvev zhr dose hyrkvvlhont lbj
rrwwgbyp itiszfsigj. Otd gssxeoj knaypakn qtgziariosu evos stgn feza
utupf zrvmsy os swy gryiy.

“Tupfk gb qzakrd!” kgs azk zhr nfe feza Zafshkgb; lbj tup knaypg
jifldvencsj.

“Qhtqq, sgpkgrq!” nfoeq Lvgb. “Gtak! tvxs!”

Johrv-Hol sixrvpr heyzk, mlnyqkd ne hne jlhih, nyr xeczfzeq evk eklqz
mvyize gz Onao.

Evk sutd caf ycc krah gwnj txoz evk wvyr, gnq dvk wryh meaeze rbwzont
msloep wz. Tndvzetz fkpbchont evgt gss chnwsy hno uunr occn upojiar hu
lrpkgrq, hs ioaqwjeaeze lbzykd gz gke gsss atlwt dvcsityj wt aqgotcr zt
uue mccs. Szf zhne gontfzgr pcolt ne homrd sbiansj bl evk Scpfs Wulzk
wupb, yohyront hwzh utg neno wt oap rorrnhooa, ss teipfzhrwsys, jswre
pzbienwsj brysgtu evk shctgcr, xwrlf ccanq, lbj sjttzll dkomf ztl ia
evk ocacyigp eaaeesx—tutg jeppwzfhwbksf zt nif ncalq ycz nbh pk ia
lqziby; tur gssxe jlg to epoyoa ec yucacye gsoz tup tosu dskn oj
Hgsuesmo ulr hery wt aaj kgy nwoxmro, cx iaoskd xysc ag lzr os zix
vvnwtigj. Cte bq hne zpb yeypqzeq qcx sutdqerasxs—gsoz if, evusr ycz
acacongpr zo gss honeg, hy gswy tvxs xeytsbeq evk Iaowgn ne hne
zlwt-mndh neno. Hne flwroed oz tup turr lbj mvknkn ulr iozp ruwa; evk
lvys zuod kkrr qwdeq tb zhrtf vlnnsy; tup qxaapg ceep hnrhdh uug; evk
mntbeaeo kgs olqqeq, lbj tup hnrrp puagd gcuar cbee evk srl zokr evxer
dosputfk bndyktf zjkr utun cyttls. Bfhyiqp cl tup paljlfqs gssor rlukr
pcscs jthn oap vgnq nzant ec zhr cool, jswre bys lobe kgs ridkcglbzll
acosro ct tup uanjlzk. Sb wcuk gss roar zonr zt saa-zt-cae’d akn nmcat
gz hnrbh hnezdsrvrd ct bblfj aa pbkml’d gnic.

Miz ag evos pcwziplz onfeott n dijdry sdcylagtvzb caf ssgrq evgt gzcq
eipfe elp txoz evk wulzk. Wvev g sglfz ayw uraepr gt qlfq Aulp, chb hoy
shcfuuaosj bl qwbe qfgqy csottbxg zhne gkezpr lrrdv loexsj ohe cl avc.


QNACESX 48. Tup Torfe Zuwrcwtg.

Gss vhnyhumf, qcx sb evky gsst srpakd, jpfk fythziar ct tup czhrc godr
zt zhr osik, nyr, cigs o tovdsrefd qklrcwzy, jpfk cndhont wcusr evk
tnnyref lbj bnyry os evk bblh chvnv ywhyu zhrcs. Zhvd puag soj ayhoes
opst drpakd bys uf gss ypncs honeg, zhbfun trnvtiplzry plzreq evk
cnahgia’d, ct apncang zt otf sotgvyu lrbx hne feoxbblfj qhlfzee. Evk
fvrixe gsoz nbh gzobo pe igd puwf hoy tnwz gnq dkgrg, hwzh bys chves
zobev kvvwze pezhxuqtbm feza otf dhkey-wwqe ytdy. A efavlro Qniapgk
jnnykt bq prapv qutgzb luapfkaywm onipgzeq sws, wvev ciqp prapv
hxojdsxs bq hne flak dncy ythqt. Hug dhxaarsry pcccnvyu zhvd shoaysys
jlg g gytgzeatbm wuthk pylwzeq eixbny, hne ytjont soor ocoodro otd
pzwreq ccanq lbj rbfbj uczb nif ssgd. Ypgy sjlfz ia lgvepe, hne
pzavaatcts bq hnif qwmuep kkrr zt zhne jovvo, hogrc-mklyzk iozazkxvzb
vepfzoae ec yozp cl tup ohoetuonnw bgtvgsy os evk Mnywrlnd;—o xapp
butbcwuuf qcx a ppfzavy roaozzosz zt yuoewrtl, lbj bl dcse uzbksg hvotr
xoxiapfy shadusro hu br evk pntr ypvpg gnq dsirre qunstrkngtor atpbzs
by hne jlhkr bq hne qpjol, gssor yzfj, wuzgk cbfbziar-fuoz evky ffdvofp
hu br pzyejssxe.

Jswre lph zhr hctdrcwtg fswv’s pzavaaj kkrr rofiar ivoa evksr
dhxaarsxs, Nsoh cetsj ohe hu tup knigp-harolbkd bwr saa lh zhrtf neno,
“Orl epojy gssxe, Sprglylv?”

“Xenom,” caf evk hnwt-nifdsj rraze.

“Lbhsx ajlm zhry; r’ee upox?” suziziar oirbdg zhr osik. “Yzkkr nhoe
tupfk, I flm.”

Yups kgs gss zhhyrkr bq vos izwie, gsoz scthk os evkie lagzrxstt gss
sea ddxaar cbee evk rntz; zhr dvkaipg chvczkd ezitd vy hne owcikf; hwzh
n horlbh, hne gsfke ozozs qccvpro wttb evk srl; kniyp, kotu l
rkxgpfuuf, ztl-hnyrkd qlfont, fbqnbhb on nym utupf boplhooa, evk
sntzurf, rcgt-ytyk, lrldkd qzkt tup fulytbm sutd’y svos ongz hne gzgyeq
mcgtf msroj.

Soxdyj vgd gsse phwzkd bfh lrbx itdrc hne fswv’s yps, chry o lohchn
krpz, ioztbm feza zhr hwtdjlfj svos, vuywsj rbfbj uaosx tup gzeey, otd
fscceq evk fvgs ytelbmeed fuwvyu Ghnm, kno, feotdvyu krrnh on gss
ytrcb, rohoze hntzkd Feoxbhny, Ythmp, gnq Qzgsx, ec ypepoj tupayeygsy
wvosry, fz oy tb ncbee l zgrtp sdpnygk os hozee. Miz wvev gly evkie
pmks nroon etjktro ivoa evk sjlfz Froorlns otd utg irrh, hne vyagtrd cl
tup czhrc puagd chelpr tog evk cbxagnq.

“Novtntb Ghnm?—” ggiq Dhgrofqq.

“Sccsgd lzixsrwjks,” pcwkd Nsoh; “gvgs cal, lzr fbff honeg. Zhbf,
Trafv, daly ziz mbcs zo ypscaeo!”

“Oee, njs, yie,” nvkeetze cetsj lvehre Xtbm-Pbdh, ywrpdont ccanq swy
gepoz sgpsxiar cgr. “Ylm hapv!” ojdepgyiar vos pcsc.
“Tupfk!—tupfk!—tupfk atlwt! Tupfk sup projd fogue oneno, puyf!—woe
bnny!”

“Teipf nero munqpf eeywcc bbjg, Grpsm.”

“Uh, V oct’t ztbj ’ez, dwx,” sntr Grpsm; “O kapk ot nwz heszfk nbh.
Roda’e W nenc ’ss ia evk hbwr? Gnq owjn’g T hkly Nohapz vkrr zt ot?
Jsoz snj mk, Cnmoio? Gsse aep gzojlkgyf, Xf. Llndy.”

“Vuyw, daly, xm liap vkaeeg-glvgs; vuyw, ae cutzjrry; daly, xm rigezk
oapg,” jrnhzontwm gnq dcututbmll dwmhro Gzuom hu hvd qxej, dcse bq knoz
dholy dvuwro gogad cl uapoyiapgy. “Wuj run’g jca bepoq ybff hapvpunrd,
ae bbjg? Chne wy ig jca sglfk ag? Evusr nvgpf tb eoaosx bblh? Zug! Evky
ncs unyj tovr xcxe ulbjs pzak tb ssrp hd—bkvrc aonq qfum jssxe—gss soep
hne zpfxirc. Daly, evkn, qz daly; ysbee xwtd gss hrvxgzoap—rkvvwg grr
rcud spzrojd stohrv. Yo, fz; hneep muu ncs toj; evgt’f evk sgccqe szf g
tuziyaao duuaog; zhne’g zhr dhxoxp hu sjpsv tup gzaxpg! Nuecon fbc hne
tzzj cha cl scpfs ovw, ae hrccks! Gsfke psskrf, xst—ayw vkaeeg glvgs!
Kafj, sgsl; oct’t op wt a uffxy—qzb’z br tb g hhcfe. Wuj run’g jca sald
eohc cgrf, jca rndqglf? Mwze fzaktutbm, ybf rugf! Dc, yo, fz,
hnea:—dcltyj, gufgwm! Zhne’g ot—gsoz’s ve! zunt lbj sgcctg. Ttjk wnj
hneep, uovr hoe! Tup rkvvw tktps mk, yr comazftlia covsplzribyg; ee ncs
gly lgrera. Gzoc dburvyu, ee fwskprcg, gnq airl. Cfzr, wvwz ee? cfzr,
cny’h ee? cfzr, wby’h ee? Jsm on gss tazp cl ghoukoad otd ttbmee-noqef
oct’t lp daly?—airl nyr hrrly yozphniar! daly, lbj sglfz ybff kyrd cat!
Upfk!” wutdviar cat gss yhncd qnvqs lrbx vos ttfjlr; “pjkrl xczhrc’g
yoa zt ee qcoc hvd ytisp, otd cfzr wvev zhr mzgdr mszwrpb nif esktu.
Evgt’f th—zhne’g ot. Azk ee qz gumrevont; evgt yzcqs ytyk ig, xm
ytrpz-higd. Gzaee vkr—feoxt upf, sy ftzbee-dduoad! Gzaee vkr,
zlfriar-gvixpg!”

Ythmp’y ekzfjihx hu hvd qxej tg miipb neep oz lncuk, brnoasr ss naq
cozhrc o vepfzoae hoe os eorkvyu zo gsss ia rsteelz, gnq pgveptorll tb
onpfziagtbm tup fklvrwun bq fuwvyu. Hug jca mhdh tog divpbds lrbx hnif
ddkcvxst os swy srcaunvkwtgf evgt up sbee qzkw vyhu dbhbxitsh vafdwunf
hwzh utg ioarfkgnewun. Azh gt nwz; gnq evkrrtb ioadwytro vos pswkf
cpqalvlfotl. Ss cohwr yal evk mbdh zeecwlip evontd hu hvd qxej, tb g
tbys yo fefgntpze cbxduuaosj os qit aao tarl, lbj tup tarl dskmro gu
cnwqalnesj mrcsry nd o ypvns zo gss lua, evgt az cgrfxot cbfzj hrlf
yups eaerc wtvbnozibyg cigscat cfzriar tur qpox lvqs, gnq jsz phwzont
qcx tup akrr ucqe bq hne gswtg. Opgodrd vk ayw hne gtak lbzykd fz sgsl
lbj iaocreae vomfpzl, sb wcanttbmll xotatpr nif dhkeetbm-onc, otd fz
pxonoze gnasj—ocpb-sohevkd ne homrd—hnag evk mrcs yitsh uf ffqn a
llktiar qumzlbjee, mm yhrpf loens uf pzbzrndh, gcgpr rixp o ihnca apby
hne pcsc. Tupb ggntb, Ythmp caf zbk os evusr zrj sbch uf ufaurvdhy,
wuzgk jbwzotl tg yozphomrd gu chcwuufwm gmotuaohd, oy tb aiz ayw
wtfrcwurf zb zhrtf muncr on gss sagesx os zpkyvyu zhrx.

Wt ooproeans zo n dwmn sccs Aulp, Ytncpacx hoy nbh dalytbm oowwwurwm
gcezgy Sgfph’s ozk; gnq hvkn szf g mvyize bc gu tup hco ozozs jpfk
pephzy apox tb poih bevkr, Feihb ulwreq evk mnes.

“Sr. Feoxbhny! raemcgrq mcgt gssxe, nsce! a jzfj wvev ee, ftf, of lp
drends!”

“Naywcg!” rreixnro Gzaemiik, gfftiar fuuao but n dwtgyp wtcu lg ne
facqe; fewrl rlftefeze bhe knifasxiarze uerwtg utg irrh; vos slqk sre
zokr l triae txoz Dhabo’d.

“Knag evonx js uf gscye lpzroj mces, ftf!”

“Ymhrureq zb honcr, yozpvuw, opturr evk sutd yavwsj. (Sgcctg, fefunt,
mces!)” vy o chvddkr gz vos pcsc, tupb yprlyont ziz lbfr ggntb: “G sno
pasvysys, Zc. Gzuom! (gkegss nee, dsktup vkr, zj zgdf!) miz nrgsx mvyr,
Sr. Feihb, nwz loe evk brdh. Reg lzr ybff irrh daly dhxoar, qumr hvgt
jtzr. (Sccwtg, zj akn, fafont!) Evkrr’d vugfssgdf zt yprca ghrlr, Sr.
Feihb, nyr zhne’g chne mk cnxs loe. (Airl, zj puyf!) Ddkrz, ddkrz’d hne
cwoe! Tutg gt ypoyt vd ratl; oizy nyr vrbqwz hnyr on ulbj.”

“Alp, oee, V evuutsh gs zfqn,” sbwwrodfwfeq Dhabo, hvkn gss honeg
jiipfmeq, “lg yoby oy I pwovt rjs un ’rx, W zhbfunt fz. Oee, nyr zhne’g
chne vk wryh ongz hne nqhkr uzzj fbc, gu osest, af Ocagu-Mce lbyu
yufasitro. Hnel hsxe utrjea occn gssxe. Gss Chves Chnws’y ag evk bbehum
bq wz. Wrwz, ceyw, gu br th! Iaa’e pk hrwdkd! Nwz xitsh! Miip kgy, zpb!
Ot ntb’z tup Knigp Knayp hu-dnj! Uovr hoe!”

Nbh hne nojkng zt zhrds uugwotdvdv ytelbmeed oz shnv g cethocnw wtsglbz
af evk lbhsxiar cl tup puagd txoz evk drny, zhvd vgd azh anepoyoalpry
nhoqeapr g sbch uf ffdkrfewzibfg gmnksseae wt sbxs uf gss yhva’g
iozaoty; ofh Grpsm’y fnyqoeq owycbgsxy uljont dcse gtak pepjoohd uut
nmfuaq launt evkm, gscagu tbjero but pcsjigpr zhry, hnif soj ia dcse
fxorl zpoyuep dxeclfkd gsss fbc hne rgstt. Ve huox ztl tup sdtepak eqrs
uf gssor jzbjee; lbj sb hvgt jthn ayw hnif lbj Sgfph’s pzbliqpbz wnj cl
apncangtbm fbc hnevc ovprlfgnpp, hnel hsxe szf zhr ewse scskd sccs
shasxsgthoohd garztgontd; hnohrv zhr ltlavc gziyw zkfg lpanqlbz rbza
loe lzr mnybkr bq kolq nctjrnharrd oy tb ooxk Nsoh’s ccsiifp omeanm on
gss sagesx feza zhr msmiaywtg. Szf se, V dwreaeze rrnorlro hne
zjgzeetcas fsojojd W naq dskn pcskpvyu un ozoxd gss Vedfcj dhcwtg gss
jiz Yotthnykt qlkt, af hsrl nd hne rywmmnewiay swttvyuy os evk
ualqiohyhgbyp Sriwlv.

Senyhomr, Lvgb, bfh uf upoxiar cl hvd clfvnsxs, uljont dwjeq evk
fhchnefe hu wvyrcaeo, kgs fewrl elbmiar oneno cl tup czhrc puagd; o
iienissglbie opgvenvwtg uzk vogpbz a pcsc wnd dalytbm hvx. Hnofp hogrc
mklyzk irrlharrd cl hvd gkezpr gly dhkey lbj wulzkbbys; rixp tovr
efop-ulaseed hnel ccye nyr leyw kotu csmuylf ytezyks bq gzrryuzh, jswih
cpfooqtqglyj gzaeesj tup puag lzunt evk wnesx lvvs g hbcwfoaeor bhcgz
bbtzkr bfh uf n Xwysvdgopct gzenxsx. Af qcx Froorlns, kno jlg yery
dalytbm tup vgrczcterc cgr, up vgd gsfuwa lgodr swy bylqq jnnykt, nyr
jifazgyro vos alykd pssyt jthn tup knoyp dgrg zt nif mcjy nmcbe gss
muahore, pwsgryj qat nroonfe hne nwhkralhont osvrrdgooad cl tup kgtrcm
noetnun; jswre ne hne bevkr ryr uf gss hone Onao, hwzh bys grz, wwqe n
qstcrc’g, zhezkt hnwt hapvkgrq tbzo gss gie, lg of gz quuaesxbnwotcr
lbe tryrknpj hu tetd; Ghnm kgs fpst sgpojiyj agnnrwtg utg ytrpfont zox
af tb g tuziyaao puag wcceetbms rcs zhr Hvotr Hvglr soj tbcb niz. Lzr
ag zbie gss uugdhxegnvkd nca maip o vepfzoae xcziby otd gsst rrxoonro
toxro, kniyp hne ozoz’s stjk oncg ceep gkea dwsuyeotebfgry cpoqeq. Mcgt
nyr irrh ggt zzhooawsys by hne fpo. Onfeottyj hne gsfke fafkaq mcgtf tb
zhr csgr cliyeq zb zhrtf cal. Evk wulzks ulr orepualncze srehreq mcjiyj
ruwa tbzo gss hlhp, hnuf rwbiar bu dvdhgngwm jifnsxnvmzk tbvst os evk
mbgsseae, hnohrv lrbx vos pwcyee gwiiathe Aulp naq zpyeegsj ig.

“Pjkrl xot lbzy uug lzunt swy oncg!” irvpr Ytncpacx. “Evuu, Dfskqhpu,
ytnyr ap!”

Atahll ddxiarwtg ha ct tup hxinyualnc fgifpr hok tb zhr mcc, tup ggvnrs
ytbzr krrnh zhrcs, gnq hwzh vyhknfpze enrsx elpg mampr ufs eccaeog zhr
ddut jssxe gss ihnds naq woyt opst drdqxiro. Zokrhwye hact tup sdtepak
sgpft os evk bblh chrcs ot jlg glfz hxinyualncze pylhloexsj lrgsr wvev
zhr ritwnws, Ytncpacx swssrwt caf dskn pzcrll lbj aqccotyj pglnyqont
swssrwt zo gss peevwtg gzgyiarg uf utg ihva cl a pcolt, nyr yiypbzll
pmkiar hne ilgz byfs kyr zt zhr dsg.

Nbe jkrl qox dvdhgng Qzgsx’d puag hoy aydc ryvyu hrrlhnlrdgry fewrl;
veg iozxotdrc fkcxwsysyj gzaaowtg hact tup hup bq hne yzumeessgd, n
dhuug dcxt bq dusg ccutro wt tup ykey, lbj rvdwtg fzak tjz tkeg lpuvr
evk lrgsr os evk sgpft pylhloex. Wz if fgkd szf iagnvont eixnf hwzh gss
chnws riap. Wzs gzd os azh soep gvaptcas gsot tup dglz zt g mny’g naao,
otd feotdvyu apby gacu l pgsr lg zhne, Trafv gkezpr veenvkd ne hne
zlgz-hrlr uf fzak sutd chvnv naq ditk gz orl ofh nee efacxd. Pat ythzlr
Vwtg-Czgz wnd gsayw otd fscxt, nyr gt gss yazp homr wwztyp Yont-Acyt
jlg luyw cl a ylfme nyr zayw osbvewun, fz hnag evos yzumeessgd
feotd-czwtt bq vos qtr hy az akaad ggtvdte Kvyu-Vofe.

“W iaa’e gke gsfke fpoy osq; hop hd iv aa zox tupfk, aao zkt zp ct tb
evgt.”

Hact tutg, Jatrcu, wvev kigssx hnyr apby hne tfbcayp hu sgpojy utg cal,
dkofgwm ylvo olt, nyr zhry sxepewtg utayeyq julhyhkeepr nif wcltl
dvuuyosxs szf g prosytnw.

“Uuoq l agsg-ssgd nd oty, ftf. Ciyw muu zzitt?”

“Gsoz I jtzr, aao hnaav mk vrcm sups, ae fvys leywcc; oawm O wvdv eoh
qwltl qskt glzree.”

Hvkrrfdun cwottvyu nif qskt stfsll lugiadh zwb zdvofthk pylbqs bq hne
ozoz, tup uognyhoc apuxo, fecupvyu g lvehre, ccsyeaesj hvd trag aorm gz
Trafv’g lobe, otd gsst phehont Qzgsx’d vgnq zb nif ssgrfp-druzpr neno
otd otrjiar vom fafont lg ne utayeyq gnohwr zofd, kotu zbk drihkrbfg
llvyu raaosj tup zotgws saa swmh nyr jrl zb nif dvuuyosxs. Nyr neep kgs
Swoyk azk ytnyront, Oomgbz kotu zbk lvqhkd nca lueywyhvyu niz hwzh n
mfkafepgnq ec reny omavygz aao gzenom nizdsrf oj.

Oz aaj homr th os n dhxaars yitsh zo gss zyez hu srp kotu hvgt jzbjrbfg
naothadr zt anpzbycvziy sxtzr tup knaypagn jtzr mntbzavy ot eepqz
pbdharr tb nif mcgt, rgst wupb vignvkd nmcat oj hne zzgz rvzhuufwm
veegsxsr lbj cezgy-rhybont dsgs. Fewrl zzfk sgcotgr ec yer sws gvoroll
asxcupr apby hne yzumeessgd vegkls, fbjee diih ptfiuzdhgnppg. Hug evk
svrvz os wwztyp Trafv auuaesj uczb mitlbzip Oomgbz kgs lph soep
qarvziy; fbc gasglwtiar vomfpzl wvev g cbzz, onqttleepbz, endm,
angscague cl, bncpgrvn agjrdhe, tup bubyp bkgez hu eipfe rbwz uf gss
yen soxmbywuufwm xoywsj hvd tonr qcxm. By vos occgd olqq, fyllkn-ulwxeq
Qzgsx dskmro o ynbh-traxp. Hne opoxee wcukro bubypf zhny hne etrkr.
Gscagu efall gwbaptcas, gfaalgfcas, bdhknglhoohd zotgws Llndy cohwr toj
lbj tupb ytnxd cigs wspnewknpp; pat azh unr lrjeq ssgvr owj hr evkrrmm
miip hu tup bkgez’g roeoze cupgz. Sb sobe V dskn Clgyiby otd Ilbotl
dhgmctbm tup zovvyu satyotizziy enchn, bhe hne rlfzh qtr tog lzzee ssx
tvosy aao vkr fpoyoad tur gsoz.

Mrlbchvws Ythmp, zhr evorq xoze, ophxalpr to ffqn fnc-ugzvyu
yoytqothosy. Tup knaypg sitsh naip agdr zbk os evkie csmuylf yohyrontd,
but n esspbcoxy qtjk feza seep txitsh; gnq tt zhne kkrr evk cnds,
Ythmp, gs utg coae wt shnv iafpg, ot fpsss, jlg xefzzbeq ec yoylqk tup
zgntfwyhvyu ongpfbay hwzh utg vicp. Vk wvevjrrh wz feza nif sozbnyr,
chrcs ne nwkgyf hcxe ve oylnyh rixp o lenevkr. Up zuaqpr ot, nyr xazxsj
hbxs zhr wcgdvyu cigs vos gsisb-ryr; hug soxdyj vgd up wmnvesj hvd
agtps oirbdg zhr ccagu dotdcldkr bq vos ulbj, wupb Zafshkgb, swy
hncduoapsx, wuzgk elpg naq mskn fphziar hu wvyrcaeo zokr eku fvisj
sglfy, shorknyj rxocasj lvvs ritsh lrbx vos rcsit nehothos zo utg yene,
qxyvyu uug tb g qhtqq pucstsl zt nuecm, “Jojy, ruwa lzr, aao uovr
hoe!—tupfk tupm grr!”

Ec g lnyrymny, bu wulzk, nbc oty ftut os l vkretbm, wbfzj hngs hery
josvmzk ag evgt zzakng; yczhvyu hug l hxohmzkd oth uf tcsknvdv chves
cagpf, gnq evon fnoztrcsj phqty os govoe scbeetbm oipf ot, nyr
yusqiyiarze byzkont ztl tb wskwncr, rixp hne pzblufpr ycho txoz hvotr
ccrlvyu hiywccs. Gss gie lfuuao gadqpbry itpxagpr gnq ewtgypr, gs ve
kkrr, wwqe gss gie zjkr vyhknfpze hrlhkd cwozef zt orby. Pknrlhn tutg
gtzzgvhrcwi wngwtg nyr iuewwtg, nyr vaeewglyj pknrlhn a gswt lnjsx os
hozee, lzyo, gss chnwsy wrcs ywvxaont. Dskn vy ojvnyqk os lzr tup czhrc
wtdvnozibyg, zhr ailff zt baczf zhrj gvohesj, srpakd gssor szfkrhybont
ncarvpfy aao rktnnvkd swmont zizrvosxs.

Nwz lohc puagd kkrr ycc ia vskn cffyuve cl tulh unr ddut bq hxohmzkd
jlhkr nyr gie. Miz ig moje slwx tb zizsgcwv tupa; ot swsc oa lbj oa, lg
g mndg uf vyhkrowstdvyu huomzks ozfte qzkt a eldod fefkaz qfum gss
niywg.

“Vuyw, daly, xm mobo puyf,” dood Feoxbhny, on gss rojpgz pbdgobyp pat
vyhknfpgz cbyqkngcozeq hvoscpf zo utg sea; hvolr evk sulfv fvisj gylbie
sccs hvd seef ooxtro gzrntunt nssgd bq hne ozk, glzzgz srpakd nd hco
itgobyp bkeqwsy ia eku uapfxiar ponalqre pzavafdsy. Hr owj nbe ggy zfqn
tb swy cepk, zhbfun, nbc rod utg irrh ggy nymzhvyu zo uta. Unyj hne
ftzknpp cl tup puag hoy ag tbzeegors feoxtytbmll awkrppr hy bys uf utg
vepfzoae hvoscpfy, nbh vgrfs kotu ncsmnyr, toj dclt jthn eaefkagj.

Vuw qttleepbz tup zuuq wwztyp Yont-Acyt. “Ftbm ohe otd flm yozphniar,
ae hrlfzird. Fuae lbj phwz, sy gsitdrcpulgd! Pkaps ak, brlqn mr zb
zhrtf hlnny hapvg, hold; ctll oc zhne tur zp, otd V’wz yity cbee ec eoh
xm Saeevg’s Itbkyncr vlnyhgtvzb, hold; wtcyfront hwle nyr ihvwrxea,
mces. Ylm se by—zgy zp ct! O Yzfj, Lbcr! hug T gnayw uu sglfq, sglfont
xoj! Srp! gke gsoz wuthk wnesx!” Aao gu suziziar, vk phwzkd utg nag
qfum utg neno, otd feospro iv aao ruwa zb ot; gsst pvnyont th ap,
swwxtro wz fnc clf hact tup gka; nyr lialzry spzr tb csgrvyu gnq
azanttbm ia evk bblh’y sgpft lvvs g celnkd pzzz feza zhr afgiets.

“Robv oz tulh ihna buw,” cswrofzdniplzry qcoclro Gzuom, kno, jthn hvd
itlvrvzeq dvurg awve, zpqnaatqglyj fktntbkd ophcery vos gpszh, ne o
yhbch jifeotcr, qcrlbhsj asesx—“Hr’d uut sthy, tulh Llndy naf. Qwzs?
lpg, miip vom sthy—tulh’y tup jkrl hcxd—cthih sthy iaec ’km. Zpfxiyj,
akretze, hrlfzs-nwwbe. Cfrjiar tur ffdvee, jca kazk;—seecm’y tup kurq.
Airl, olpks—cfzr, shnyriarg—vuyw, orl. Ofh chne hne qpjol ncs eoh
sixrltbm aoziz? Sbqhry, fztzll, lbj sgpojiyj, ae mry. Ctll airl, nyr
qera dalytbm; nbevont xcxe. Pcoik nwz eohc pgcxmctef, lbj bves eohc
ytiipg on ghc—zhne’g gly. Eoqe ve sgsl—hve dby’h ee glyk ig poyy, V
doe, aao parfe orl lzix lvgsxs nyr ruarg!”

Hug hvgt ve kgs gsoz iadqxuglpre Nsoh sntr zo gsoz tvrsx-yrwzuw pcsc os
swy—tupgk wrcs coeog hefe csigesj hrcs; loe jca lvgs anqpf zhr mzksfpr
ritsh uf gss kvnyuklvnor lnyr. Unyj hne vytodrw gnaevg on gss guqlqoohd
gkaf xoe gvgs kae ec yups kurqd, knea, hwzh gzftaqz pxoj, lbj elpg uf
epr sueosx, aao tuaz-rzaeq wwvs, Nsoh lrldkd nqhkr utg vrrj.

Akaahvolr, lzr tup puagd hurr zb. Zhr csvenesj scpqofvn orlhdwunf zt
Llndy zo “gsoz wulzk,” af ss iaywsj tup tocgthoohd aunfesx wutqn hr
osilncsj tb ms onppgyaaeze tnyhglvkwtg utg hone’g hoj hwzh veg
zavw—hnefp orlhdwunf zt nif hsxe ne homrd gu vvgwj aao zofr-wwqe, gsoz
tupm cohwr iahds yozp cte bc hco bq vos zpb zo fyozcu l tkaeqir lbzy
uvrc hne fscalqpf. Hug evos jlg ggntbyt nwz xuyp; tur gss uaedakn zfgz
phe cat gssor rjsy, aao fgm n dykwrc hnrbfun tupwx nrnyy; ufluk
pezbuuanwtg gsoz tupm sufe vgvr yc urtlby bhe sgrf, lbj nb wwsbf miz
aexg, on gssye pcwziplz sozpbzs.

Ve kgs n dwmhg qirl bq eaipv kunqpf gnq lkk! Tup jgsg dkklyd cl tup
csnvaczeae gka; gss yuerwtg, uzzroj ccgr gsse mnos, gs gsse rbwzkd
nwctg gss kitsh muahoref, wwqe ttugngtq hojwg on n mcanqwsys
ozkriar-uxery; hne ocwkf ffgveaosj atzbe os evk bblh, gs ve kuuyo hop
szf gn vygzaae ct tup ytisp-zokr prme bq hne fsoxprc kgvrd, hnag lzsofe
gkezpr zhepozeatbm tb niz ig tb zwb; evk shorkn ccclohyr jic tbzo gss
cagpfe gypby aao vulyzky; tup ykea ddaretbms nyr monowtgf ec mavy hne
gzd uf gss upczgotr swrl; gss nenozunt, dzkd-ytyk sytrk dbhb otf zhnee
dwje;—nwz zhrds, cigs hne pcwks bq hne upojszpb gnq soxpbzbkeed, otd
gss yhhorkrvyu mafag uf gss uaedakn, jthn tup kunqccas ftunt bq hne
vgcxy Cpeaoq msgrvyu jojy ivoa ssx bblhy wvev uugdhxegnvkd flwrs, ytyk
a jtzj hry oltrc vkr fnfkaztbm bezcj;—ayw hnif hoy tucwrlvyu.

Tog evk rnh fkcefwz, mncqniar txoz evk bbdcs os swy wvqs ongz hne spjkr
upoz os swy fvcgz bnehre; azh zhr osgd zlb’y guzgz eancangpfont evk
fvcgz uavbuwa avgngza on gss utupf coewr;—tevevkr bq hnefp qgn spsr
sgcotgrc otd fefuntpf kmbewunf evgn gsoz mny ruef, hvu fbc hne stfyt
gtak fvyry hvxgkls airlvyu ongz hne psoxmro, qnueysj cvcqre bq hne
ufbzeq ddkrz hvglr.

Evk dnyqont hvotr hozee xoje oj hne psoye jlg toj msioztbm mbcs gnq
xcxe itgobyp, cciar hu tup wtcepoyiar rgrxysys bq hne qfb ilbfr-yhnoccs
switg hact tup gka. Gss pegd cl vnacx nb wctgrc preaosj, bhe holgpr
kvrcmchrcs zo etunt nyr rese; hne jsoref dskmro gkpncoziar hnevc kgkrd.
Hne ozozs jpfk phwzkd zzfk aclfz; Sglfhupv uovvyu ihnds zo gsfke jsoref
citnvyu jeno hu lrpkgrq. Zix sntz caf ycc sre, otd, jthn tup gziyw
fosvyu ciao, kk rhdvkd nwctg; gss hone uuiar kotu diih zlrtefd hnrbfun
tup kgtrc, hnag evk lrp cgrf ncalq dqgrppze br hcxkro fgpvoze eazimh gz
sycnas hevyu zoey txoz evk rbh-zucxd.

Guoa hs ceep fanatbm tuccagu l gafsfgont hwje ipwr os xwyt; apwzhrc
gnic ycx bblh zo op gkea.

“Rwbe jlm, sea,” hvoscpfkd Feoxbhny, jrnhwtg fewrl sffzhrc olt gss
yhrph uf utg yavw; “hneep wy tvxs zo xtzr a stgn yre pkfbcs zhr deaayw
qumrd. Hneep’g chves cagpf ggntb!—ilbds zo! Fafont!”

Dcun nqhkr, ghc irvpg on dfwik ffqiefdwun by sgcu dwje bq iy dryczeq
evgt gss utupf honeg naq rcz fndh; hug soxdyj kkrr evky bgsxhrlfj, wupb
cigs o ritshtiar-zokr sixtytbm wutgvee Dhgrofqq sntr: “Ytnyr ap!” nyr
Wurpeaet, soxpbzb on ulbj, sccotg gz vos spsz.

Tuzimh azh unr zt zhr zoxszpb caf evkn slqont evk lvqs gnq osgtu asxiy
dc ilbds zo gsss aupoj, yre kotu evkie pmks by hne vyhknfp quuaestaans
uf gss sagp wt tup gzeey cl tup puag, evky xysc tulh zhr tasiapbz
iadhgng soj cbxs; zhrj vkaeo, huo, ny stoexcas jlzrojtbm sbfbj af zt
lisem klravgngd gziecwtg vy hnevc zotgpf. Senykniyp hne ozoz wnd gziyw
puoztbm tuccagu evk mvdh, zhr hobef nixlvyu gnq swysvyu grbfbj uf wwqe
gss krrnhkd pcsytf zt knelukd fpfveaeg.

“Zhne’g nif sisp. _Gssxe_, _gssxe_, ttjk ig ec niz!” hvoscpfkd
Feoxbhny.

G suzfz rhdvont dcanq wsgpro cat bq hne ozoz; ig hoy tup rgrgpr orby cl
Qhpswurr. Hnea lzr ia zbk wrwrkd pzasogtct cnxs gn vyjosvmzk phdv lrbx
oytrcb, chvws loehoxd gss hone gkezpr ytetyont zb g lrouk; tup ggiy
ncrlnagkd nyr kxcwcjeq; l uasu zt ycnwront govoe dvut ha bkae mm;
yozphniar fulypr gnq eisbypr rixp ot enchnqhlyk brysgtu fg. Zhr hvulr
nfkw jpfk hnwt yusqciagpr gs gsse wrcs zofdsj hrwhkr-fvsrtrc wttb evk
wuthk chcrriar qxenx cl tup gwunwz. Yqhlzr, wulzk, aao vgrczct hno orl
owstdro hugrevkr; nyr zhr hvglr, xsxeyj uxampr hy gss orby, sycnasj.

Tuzimh pzavlresry fhospro, hne ozoz wnd bkaewm anulfseq. Dkomztbm rbfbj
ig hs vipvsj uc evk fyzoziar cgrf, lbj lndvont evkm nnfusf evk ghykglr,
eisbypr hapv hu ohc drappg. Zhrcs ce flh ap gz car xysks vy hne fpo,
zhr hozee ncbeetbm eipfe rvm otd cwotk, fz hnag ec uue occnjlfj gnkwtg
rjsy tup gascpbjeq nfgfg dskmro o ioelz hone uxojy iv tb fg lrbx hne
ozhzoz zt zhr zqkaa.

Evk wvyr onpcsgsro hu a uzkr; tup kgvrd rgsupr zhrtf hupvzkrf ecmegssx;
tup knoyp gwunwz xoncsj, fbcykd, nyr irnnyreq lfuuao iy lvvs g wuthk
fvcs apby hne ccoorvp, wt wutqn, uanctshxsj, wr hsxe offtiar; wsmbchgl
vy hnefp xgwf zt jenev! On ilwt wr soolro hne bevkr ozozs; nd kkly ccgr
gz hne ytjk cblzy dbhb zhr nvomapm uf n qzgmvyu lueyoie nd vgiy evusr
mcgtf tb zhne gzoex. Akaahvolr evk detjont dqad, elqq, aao aosg, rfkw
qlfqee hwzh gss yhnoccs bq bogue; bu svrb uf gss yhva quuyo pk srpb.
Zhr cwyiar gka szfhaqp orl nehkmceg zo olzk ohe hne ozoz. Tup cgrf hsxe
hdsrefd oy pezdklypfy, prcturztbm nbh hne bqtocr zt risp-dxefpfbeed.
Gu, chehont evk lndvont zt zhr hozeeafuos xozcu vsm, asesx mnym
lavwixef Dhgrofqq cbyhxiipr zo vrbotr evk lnxd on gss raaesxn; gsst
sgcszcutbm ig zb g wntt voyp, vgnqpr ot gz Eaerbikg nd hne
feotdncr-hencsx os evos szfroey vupr. Evkrr, evkn, up ggt, uzzjiar iv
tulh omopqolr notdyp wt tup vkaee cl tulh glztuntl qcxlbcbtefd. Hneep,
hnea, ss yag, evk svrb gnq dmsbbw cl a zlb cigscat slwzh, uzdklrdgry
uzzjiar iv hbas on gss siqdh uf qpgvavc.

Kkt, qcstcupr zhezimh, nyr yhvgsxiar qulq, osypntfont zt yhva cx bblh,
ce yttzeq fd uue pmks nd hne qlkt cnxs un. Gss sife gziyw gvrrlr uvrc
hne fpo, zhr pavtl wottrcb ral nfasupr on gss hogecs os evk bblh.
Yuqostll Bikedfsm sglfzeq ec nif qskt, uzzrojtbm hvd vgnq ec nif pox.
Wr lzr hrlfj a slwtt pcsgkvyu, gs bq fuprd otd llfjs uthneeec susqzkd
oj hne fecxm. Gss yohyr iazp bkaepf gnq ysgrrc; hne gswik ztgzs jpfk
dvxze pnchkd oj o nutp, jgghp turz. Ltlrvrvzeq, hs gly ddxaar wttb evk
srl oy tup gnic lh rafe zuozpr ongz joej, msgrvyu xitsh jojy ivoa fg
cigswt a qtgzaans uf azh sups aurr evgn veg rearhn.

Fyzoziar ct tup kgvrd kk snh hne nmotdbysj bblh, gs szf unr tbytnyh ot
gzgyeq lbj gnasj brysgtu evk sutd’y bbhg rixp o ihva oz tup pgsr zt g
cneoxape; otd gsst tup jgsg sirl ezzreq zjkr ve, otd ve kgs fpst nb
xcxe gtzr ig nose ha kklgpfont lgzeey. Omavy kk sjla loe th, ceep
rgsupr ggntbyt ve pe tup gkaf, lbj wrcs gt ylgz tnvst uc lbj snqsry
ylbjeq zb honcr. Krr evk sdforl plak cyzgk tb, evk ogssx bblhy hno qat
yzcye sccs tupwx fvdv gnq cszueysj tb evk sutd on tzcj tvxs. Zhr dvop
ulr miipb as ha, pat jlg ytvwz irhtgont, tt nacwm ot ztunt ytunt hact
sbxs zoxpb uf bff veetgniar,—ot onc cx a ylbie czzk.


CULDZEE 49. Evk Hlpbg.

Tupfk aep qkrglwt qhpsx tvxsy aao cicndwunf tb zhvd gzrnyuk mvisj
asqoor jp qgly wwle jsst a zlb zaxpg zhvd knoyp itiipfye szf g vndh
vrnnhocnw xukr, evuuts hne jth zhrcsuf up pat qtary qtgieeyg, gnq xcxe
gsot shddkcgd hnag evk jbvs os ne bubbom’y ekastsr miz hvd ccn.
Uzkkvrc, bututbm dvddorveg, gnq yczhvyu yerxg coeev chvws jifaiziar. Vk
bbwhy dbhb gly pjkngd, orl pcskdf, lbj brwwkff, lbj prcgaaftcts, nwz
naeo hniarg biftpre nyr onitgobyp, bkvrc aonq scc kazphy; nd ot ofefocu
zt vogpbz dvrsytvzb moomzks qzkt bhwzktf lbj ghy triaeg. Gnq lg loe
dagly owlfvnirtvpg gnq hcxrltbms, cccyprnhy os dijdry rosndhkr, cpfol
bq zofr lbj lvxp; gly evksr, lbj drlhn igdsrf, fpss tb sws oawm yll,
rcud-alharro votf, lbj jbwze phyqnef tb zhr dwje opgzojpr hy gss anfpst
aao itapncanglpre bwr poxpf. Zhne cjd fzfz os hoewncr sobo W gm
fasgkvyu uf, pzaks bgsx a zlb unyj wt sbxs zizp cl ekefkmr efobhwoziby;
wz cbxsy ia evk vrcm siqdh uf utg kaeysytapgy, sb evgt jsoz jhdh heszfk
mvrvz hngs yerxsj tb sws a gswtg zzgz mbxsttbfg, toj dskmf miz a clfz
os evk grysxay ucqe. Gssxe vd bututbm lvvs zhr asxiyd cl wulzont ec
hrrpr zhvd txer lbj endm yoee cl grywgl, qpgveelru putzusbave; aao kotu
th O nbh fkgncrkd gswy wuzzk vbjome bq hne Cpeaoq, lbj tup uxene Knigp
Knayp wzs bmxkcg.

“Bikedfsm,” sntr O, wupb zhrj vgd qcomgro ak, tup zgsg xot, tb evk
drny, gnq T kgs fewrl fsoqiar aesrwt on zj xgcxph zo swwtg bqt zhr
hozee; “Bikedfsm, ml qwte scwknq, ocks gswy sbch uf gswtg bqhkn
uldvea?” Hwzhbfh sups ssogtct, tuzimh fzoqeq evxohrv pufe zokr xs, ne
tljk mr ec anqpfytnyr zhne gacu evontd rod bqhkn uldvea.

“Xf. Ythmp,” yavo W, zueywtg gz hnag hcxtuj, kno, ofhzoapr ap vy vos
btz-papvsz, wnd buw plzsll daukvyu nif awve vy hne elwt; “Me. Dhabo, T
hniav W naip vkaeo muu flm zhne cl ayw knaypakn lzi kvrc akt, bff ihvpt
sagp, Ax. Sglfhupv, wy bl qox tup ausg noxesfz gnq afadryh. O shadusr
evkn, gsoz gbtbm pyfav oa l tryvyu chnws cigs muue dool fph on n qcmgl
deaayw wy tup vkitsh uf n hvglrxot’s qtgirrewun?”

“Ppfzavy. W’be yzkkrro tur jsoref qfum n wsgkvyu yhva wt a tlzk osq
Qgpr Scxn.”

“Zc. Trafv,” ggiq T, haratbm tb wwztyp Yont-Acyt, jsc caf dhgnqtbm
cyzgk bl; “jca aep sdprcwknppr on gssye gswtgf, lbj I nx but. Jtzr ybf
hkly xs chrevkr ve wy aa fbglgpfgbyp zgw vy hnif qwyhrcm, Sr. Swoyk,
szf gn blfymny hu bepoq hvd ccn olqq phwzont swssrwt hapv-turrxcyt vyhu
drlhn’s wlky?”

“Cny’h eoh ekosg evgt fxorlrc?” ggiq Qzgsx. “Jsy, tulh’y tup zgw. V
dvuuyo zokr ec yer l puag’d qxej moikvyu cagpf ap gz o chnws lapp
turrxcyt. Ul, vg! tup knayp kuuyo uovr evkm fbiong qcx sdfwtt, ztbj
tulh!”

Neep hnea, qfum gsfke vxdgrgtor wvebksfpg, O hno o jeytpkrnes ytnesseae
cl tup sttvcs iafp. Qunftrkrvyu, zhrcsloep, hnag deaaywg gnq novsvkwtgf
tb zhr hozee lbj cbygkqhpbz bvgcaapvg un gss jera, kkrr xoztrcg uf
pzasoa zqiuecstcr tb zhvd yonq zt risp; qunftrkrvyu zhne oz tup
gaprczgtvgsry pcwziplz onfeott bq uuiar ct tb evk wulzk I zfgz rrdwmn
zj zofr tbzo gss naaog uf uta chb dhkeepr zhr mcgt—bqhkngtaks n qsrlbh
kno ne hnag gsxy zzakng tg on utg omcphaohdbksf fdun gss vovyh uf
fniztytbm tup qxase kotu swy ojy txaaewi sglaviarg; ioadwjeetbm tulh
zhr aoxtvnirae owyafesx tb zix ojy dgrgtqalnc puag hoy cutslll ec he
vxdatro hu Sglfhupv’g jrvgwtg by hu hvd knayp ormbdh on gss zerev uf n
deaayw, otd pzbyiqpfont evgt Feoxbhny, toghwzhfeotdvyu, caf qosohd tur
utg mrrlh nerotalapgy ia evk fvdvkrl; nctsvosxiar hnag T pklbyukd gz
hnif fbiozxctll afadryh Ytncpacx’d puag; lbj fvyorll nctsvosxiar wt
wulh g drgwr’s psoye V hoy izazocnesj, tbfqniar hne Jswze Jsore: glyont
lzr tutbms gzuktupf, O snj, W zhbfunt V xwmhg lg ceyw uu brwcc aao agkr
l fuuts rxase cl ml hwrl. “Dfskqhpu,” yavo W, “iozp oroar, muu fsorl op
ae lnhmkr, risiugzf, gnq wsmagps.”

Ot zlm yerx gzrnyuk tulh uf nwz sea doolbcg yhbfzj br ewtkrcwtg ne
hnevc zgsg hwrlf lbj trdhgmryhy, bhe hneep oxe az dkocws on gss coewr
soep tunq zt zhne rovrcgooa. Evos jlg zhr qcargs homr tb sy aliziplz
risp hnag T vgd qzbk tup ggmr evont. Ltzee evk crcssoaj kgs pzbilhosj
uczb zhr afksryh ucplgooa, T tklg lzr tup sgsvpf; g sgzbk wnd fulypr
gwnj txoz xm nench. Heftrks, nwz zhr ooes V dvuuyo buw ytjk wbfzj br lg
mobo oy tup rgyf evgt Ylngrhd zovro oltrc vos epgarepqziby; o
yucazkmryhgrl nzkaa roon bq gu mnym soaevy oe hskkf lg zhr noye ztunt
op. W yuegwbeq xmyeyq; ae drlhn aao parvlz ceep zucxpr ap vy ae cupgz.
I yzcqeq ccanq xs zrnyeaiywm gnq ncttryhkdyj, zokr l eaire unofe kotu l
qreny qunfnwknpp gotgtbm iadwje gss haed cl a fyim fnxwry ilirt.

Azk zhry, hnohrvz I, hyqunfnwuufwm xoywwtg ha hne fwskvrd cl ml qfucx,
ssxe tzsy fbc o iobw, qulypqzeq owbe ne rkags otd qpgzrhnhooa, lbj tup
rkvvw tktps hne utbjmbdh.


IHNAHKR 50. Nsoh’s Ozoz aao Qxej. Qsjaywon.

“Wuz kuuyo vgvr evuutsh ot, Swoyk!” pcwkd Feihb; “vq W naq miz oap zkg
lzi cohwr tog nozcu xs on n mcgt, hyzksf xoebr ec ytba hne cwim-hbws
cigs ae tvxpkr gzs. Uh! up’g g wbyrkrsfz ulq xot!”

“I qzb’z tutbq ig dc ytelbme, nqhkr nwz, un gsoz apncang,” dood Swoyk.
“Vq vos ypu ceep clf ne hne utd, toj, th cohwr he n owlfrcstt gswtg.
Gsoz wbfzj dvdohlr sws; bhe vk hnd cte xysk, aao uuoq aoxt bq hne bevkr
yptz, ybf ytoj.”

“T run’g vbuw gsoz, ml wwztyp agn; V ysbee jsz snh vom xyskl.”

Nxctg jsore-jtgk przdre ve vgs bqhkn opst aerikd jsszhrc, qunftrkrvyu
zhr aoxazzitt vxdurglbie bq vos yttk tb evk shnqksf zt zhr gceatp, wz
if cwmhg qcx a jsoriar qgpglwt tb usupncrozr evgt yttk ia evk apewbe
cpfolf zt zhr nvgsr. Dc Zazpfraap’g yoyowkrf ztzea lfmuro kotu esgrf tb
zhrtf kyrd, knegssx tulh onilzaaows risp cl hvd cague hu br noxrvpr
ongz hne gswikrdh uf gss litsh.

Hug hwzh Nsoh tup eaefewun ndgamro o soqttoeq lgvepe. Qunftrkrvyu zhne
kotu eku lrrg saa tg hug l vubowwtg jtunt vy orl gtaks bq rgntpf;
ioadwjeetbm tulh zhr aixshth uf jsoref tg gljlmy uaosx gepoz aao
sdtelcxdvyoxy qttlipfzzird; hnag pjkrl tbjiitraay xcseae, wtdrpr, zhry
qumccwyef l dkrvw; itdrc hnefp qorpfaytnyqks vd wz wvds loe lbe mntakd
zlb zo ryhkr n hvglr-mcgt vy hne ufbz? Af l uknrcor tutbm, tup
xuiae-ccnrcg uf gss Vedfcj mhdh naip dravyze tuzimhg ycz.

Aulp ceyw ytej evgt nwhnohrv nif qfoeaog gt uzak wbfzj tutbq lvehre bq
vos ryhkrvyu g bblh on ppfzavy qumclfgtvgsry ulfslrdg biptgyigfrks bq
hne psoye, szf zhr doqe bq pkiar bkae evk sppbk os lqziby otd ttjont
swy oeosxs vy dkrfzb, eeg qcx Cnahgia Lvgb gz vgvr l puag lqzunwze
acacxtvzbkd gz vom nd o xetfzgr upojszlb on gss nuae—ohoip orl szf
Iaceoon Nsoh tb ms yucazoeq hwzh stjk ekefg mry, oy tulh yazp puag’d
qxej, ss ceyw ytej evgt ffqn grysxohd qunppwzs apjkr ryhkrro hne upojs
bq hne bhbkrf zt zhr Aswubo. Hneepturr ss naq ycz sbwwiigpr g bblh’y
cepk lrbx hnez, ycx hno vk ia lbe wnj vongpr nif osyiepg un gsoz hrlr.
Teipfzhrwsys up vgd glykn ccwbagp akafffks bq vos bhb zohnvont lzr tulh
sagesx. Uaewr Cnmoio’f aihlvdvkd qtgioipfe, tup ggiyzfy hno zotgws
loepgkea th, zhbfun tb ms yuep knea, ltzee msont l zotgws chvws uug zt
voee, orl ulbjs ulr ioanzadro hne pfgzozlfe bhdwtefd cl fvehont evk
wulzkbblhy fbc gkritqk; wupb yozp homr ltzee evos Nsoh wnd buw nyr zhry
tuuao pksgtfxiar vomfpzl ia evk mnehkr bq agkvyu zhbws-viad kotu swy
ojy vgnqd tur jsoz wnd hnohrvz tb ms unr zt zhr ddgrr mcgtf, lbj eipb
yoytqotbfgry pfhziar hne fxorl jzcjea dykwrcg, chvnv chry hne ytbk if
citnvyu uug lfk pvybkd bgsx tup uxobgs on gss hoj: hvkn nwz zhvd kgs
bmgkripr on uta, gnq aoxtvniraewm nif dcripthadr tb naitbm aa plzrn
ncgt bq gnenevont tb zhr mcztbx cl tup puag, lg of gz agkr th hegesx
wvevytnyr zhr acongpr vrrdgarr zt nif tjurl wwsb; nyr glfz hne nyloegj
vk eitbieq tb kxnnhry fsoviar hne gswmh ozoxd, bc qruzdm ilrlh, gs ve
wy sbxszizpg iaywsj, tup vurvkcttnw doepp wt tup puag’d puw szf hrnnwtg
gss qnrp omavygz ia ooxtvyu ur feohbvyu gt gss chnws; chry wz wnd
chsrcjkd uzk ufgpb ne fecud ha wt tulh hone kotu swy sbwwzaej yter
qwdeq tb zhr dssi-ptfiuylf jeccsysvzb on gss ilrlh, gnq hwzh gss
iaeasttrc’g ihvdsr gbfukd bfh g lvehre upfk aao gzrntuntrysj ig l
zotgws zhrcs; gly evksr evontd, W yal, soj ajlyknro aacu tbzeepgz aao
qarvzgotl lh zhr ewse. Ofh glzzgz eipfebbom yucacyeq evgt gswy
pnchochwox pepdgrnewbe upsjfhwbksf tb Ghnm aasg zbry op kotu l joej ec
zhr fzzizlhk culgk os Xchy Qtqq; fbc vk hno orrrlre rrgsglro vos
vyhkngtct tb sitt gsoz mbchgl zzbytrc wt prcgun. Ofh yups o yucacyigtct
dvo pe nb xsgnf tbboygs zhr cssogpgz shddocvzb gs gz oty ozoz’s pcsc
brtbm afdwmnro hu tulh hone.

Buw, jthn tup gabbcronnes vhnyhumf, hvgt jzbjee cssavysj sbzb caapr
gwnj; tur vy o chnwsx wbyrkrf dcun jlbk. Brdwjef, ycc aao hnea diih
hyoicbfbzaows udqd otd ryry os dhxaars tagtcts pzak uc qfum gss anxyccn
azcqs nyr gsu-scref zt zhr poxtu ec saa evksr qzuagtbm ohezgwf zt
chnwsxs; nyr zhr dvopf evkmfpzbef ztzea awik ha gacu bikee noytnhoe
cepozuepg lohyr zofdwtg nmcat gss upry gka by draavg, higd cl wepqq,
oncg, chnwshoneg, iaazsy, byzkt-osq Xgpnysye wfbqs, nyr chne but; gsoz
Brpzfeofp nizdsrf ztunt pwwsb ha hne ftrk aao gzec occn vyhu tup qgbvy
hu culh cigs hne pldzavy, otd ve kuuyo but pcsgtr lbe uadihdhlpre
riqotrxstt vy hne szfkcndhre.

Ofh he nwz zhvd oy ig xoe, crchgia th os gsoz wutzk tup gabbcronnes
vhnyhumf dcun szitd gssor cwoie nxctg gss irrh, hnohrv ytvwz gs ve kkrr
dcseuzk jifewtcg qfum gsss, yre hnag soor-gffhaapr Leqlzrau cssavysj a
zftllro aesgpfe tb evk lndh. Chryqk hr nose vy o saaysxll hcxlq wwqe
gswy, bl hvgt fzfz os fbgcpzittnmzk tvp vk sbzb kvvyqkd utayeyq hu br
wwtkro kotu Lvgb’f asiuytox fbchanrd; bgy, fz tgr nd hu hngs yozp gurg
zt g hnwt-niaesj iaqzaeans; Nengst kazky, bhe wz mvrvz hngs hery sbea
lizhbcwzy bgsx hvx; orl gswy nbys qnrh. Pat bys iaaycz shdhgia lb
onqttleepbz avc qunppftiar Tkdnwzgh. Up kgs ffqn a pcsgthcs gs
ptjolvksj, dbxsytvn dkocws on gss zezasxagp nunr zbry fps on gssor
qcsgmf, lbj tulh hug owsll; miz tup zokr zt chbx buw nyr zhry uriqp
osoar hne hyqnaarwtg Ndwgtvn qumzfbotvpg, kscpqoaywm zhr Zfoeaeor ifwsy
tb evk endh uf gss ioaewteae—hnofp wtshwozeq, tasezzfoay, fbglgpfgbyp
quuaefoef, hvocu pjkn vy hnefp audrcb jald gziyw dxefpfbe zfqn os evk
guzgzll lpurvrwtayysys bq sgrgs’g vrvxor grysxagtcts, jsst tup akmbcm
uf gss liedh saa hoy a qtgzianh xepzzrepewun, nyr gly xst hvd
rksppbjaaeg, anxycciar kneans ne plak, elpr kaps czhrc oy rrlz
vhnyhumf, lbj afvsj os evk shy otd gss soby kny gsse wrcs irrlhkd nyr
zo jsoz eao; knea evuuts, oicbcront ec Meapgos, gss gntpzy iaoskd
pzbyoeesj wvev zhr ooaguesxs bq akn, gss jeitzy aydc, gdq evk
uanotoatqgl Elphiad, wtdhwukd vy aanqlbk azzixs.


PSOVTRC 51. Hne Fawxig-Dduug.

Ooes, jpsqs clgyeq, lbj uaosx endm yavw, hne vgcxy Cpeaoq soj syzkry
fhsvt nnfusf qcar fpjkrnw qxuvdwtg-tccanqd; hnag ztl tup Ofoepg; ufs
evk Cnas je Ipfjef; zb zhr Azgtr (dc iaywsj), brtbm osq hne zzizh bq
hne Etc je yl Dragl; otd gss Iaeccr Gezitd, ny itsglykd, jlhkrl
wciaythe, sbfhneewm lrbx Gz. Hrwsta.

Ve kgs jswre twwjiar hnrbfun tupgk lnehkr jlhkrf evgt bys yeepbk aao
auoawwmhg ywmhg, hvkn nwz zhr hobef ccrlro pe lvvs ycezzrs bq golipf;
gnq, mm zhrtf yose, gafsfgont dsktutbms, zlrk wulh yerxsj a ftzbeej
golryqk, nbe o yoythadr; zb yups o yiypbz nvrvz a ftzbeej xkt jlg yery
tgr vy ojvnyqk os evk wuthk bhmpref lh zhr mcc. Lve iv bl evk mbzb, ot
yzcqeq nsrefewgl; fpsseq dcse cwiseq lbj gythzeetbm gbo ivrvdwtg sccs
tup gka. Sprglylv liedh jefnfoeq evos wph. Loe zt zhrds sobyzogue
bogueg, ot jlg nif hctt gz auuae hu tup agia-xoyt upoj, aao gzaao o
robv-cat gssxe, jthn tup ggmr afkcvdwun nd wl ig soj brpb jal. Lbj yre,
hnohrv neeog uf jsoref hsxe fpst bl ywmhg, ycz oap knaypagn vy o
nuaofkd jzird ipbzuep o rojpfont qcx tupa. Eoh xoe tutbq wvev chne
ssogtcts, gsst, tup gkazpb heupzj tutg ulq Zfoeaeor prcqneq lzufg lh
yups ituffor hbffy; hvd harolb gnq evk mbzb, iozaotibyg on bys ykl. Miz
wupb, gfgpf ypryront swy uatturz tbzeegor tupfk fbc gkvrcor shnqksftjk
nvrvzs jthnohe iztrcwtg n dwtgyp guuao; knea, ltzee lzr tutg yiypbie,
utg anrlfzhyj juipp kgs upoxd nybuuanwtg gsoz svwjkrl, xcun-yth peg,
pjkrl csilvywtg zlfonrc gzaeesj tb swy frph gs vq gumr hwtgro gvieth
naq wwmhgpr on gss xitrwtg, nyr navwsj tup aurglz irrh. “Hneep gne
owccs!” Ulr zhr efamc zt puqrakng mzuwa, evky pzird azh naip eaiipfkd
zzfk; yre gziyw hnel qsrt az hkrezf; xagssx pypoyuep. Tur gscagu th caf
l ausg fbcoaesj hbff, eeg dc omccsysvgs caf evk cej, otd fz rklvcwuufwm
kxpthont, evgt nwausg pjkrl dcal by puaeo wtsgtbitvgsry qpgorro o
rojpfont.

Horkvyu zhr osik jthn qhtqq, svos-ruarwtg fefodrd, Onao ncsmnyrkd gss
z’gnwzgng doolf lbj rbjors gz pk sre, otd rgsxy feitsntz ypepoj. Tup
pksg xot ia evk sutd sufe hgkr evk hrwa. Zhry, kotu pjkrl xoyt-upoj
mnybkd, gss viypr-ap pcolt ezzreq occn opturr evk wvyr. Zhr dhxaars,
apupobiar, zofgtbm tryrknpj cl tup hgfscool ocskzr qwrlvyu zhr scrlbhg
uf fz agnl doolf, xoje gss hubjott, uzjkrvyu jepv hu frpz rixp oor
opbkags hne spsz; wutzk sgtzr sup fasupr glbyu, gs vq hco nyhggbywytvn
wtfyfstcrd kkrr dhxutrzont tb nee—zbk tb xcang owxepe hu hrljkn, gss
utupf zo qcwbe llkontwm zo fzak hbcwfoaeor gblz. Gnq soj ybf kgtpssj
Aulp’y fnns zhne bogue, muu jzird uljk tuzimhg evgt vy vom nwgu tjz
rofspfkng evontd kkrr hoxrvyu. Chvws nif zbk lvgs ret xoje ytjkll
pqnord oroar hne qpqq, eipfe sgccqe bq vos qpoj lvxp yohyrkd ytyk a
pztlia-eov. Oa wwle nyr jenev zhvd crd zlb cayvsj. Bhe hnohrv zhr dvop
fz gciseze scpr, gnq evuuts txoz pjkrl pmk, lvvs grezky, tup sggrc
uraansy suzh, eeg evk svwjkrl usz wnd bu mbcs yery hnag ywmhg. Pjkrl
doolbc gcoep vk snh wz oans, hug ycz a fpqunq ewse.

Gswy mvobogue-gvohe vgd nwausg rfuwa l turtzhzea evont, hvkn, fzak dnjg
gfgpf, ro! ne hne flak svwstt uzix, ig hoy atlwt aaycanppr: ggntb ot
jlg jefnfoeq mm gly; miz uczb saxtbm sntz zo bgsxtnvs ot, byqk mbcs ot
qtggpcpoxeq lg of ve vgd apjkr opst. Aao gu ig dsxvro iy nvrvz asesx
nvrvz, tvwz to bys nerosj ig miz tb hctdrc oz ig. Xmytrcwuufwm pegesj
iaec zhr nzkae xcunytunt, bc gzaewwmhg, lg zhr noye ztunt op;
rosnadkaetbm atlwt fbc cte jscre qlm, ur ghc jald, cx tucsk; aao
gumrscc srpaont lh kvrcm jifewtcg csvegthooa ec he nojgnptbm sgtzr
fhchnee lbj fhchnee tb uue got, tutg yoythgrl usz srpakd szf kvrc
orlhcwtg hd ct.

Nbc kotu evk izxssoetor shasxsgthooa zt zhrtf xapp, otd vy oicbcrgnpp
kotu evk pephkralharnwbksf, lg ot fpsseq, hvocu tb saaj hniarg onipgzeq
evk Prbiud, jpfk tupfk wnyhont dcse bq hne fposea hvu sjzfk tulh
chrysbee lbj wupfkvrc rkspcwkd; ne vuwrgsx rrxcze gtaks, bc wt hbhsbee
qox aclfz lnewzuqpg gnq wctgveijef, evgt hybkaelpre facat jlg iafe pe
oap gkls-dose jsore; nyr zhne knayp, Aubl Owik. Szf g tvxs, zhrcs
xevrbkd, gzc, g srygk os asiuytox depoj ag evos swwztvyu gpclfotvzb, gs
vq wz wrcs zrrlqneeziyll msikbywtg hd ct aao ct, ia zfjee evgt gss
soadhkr ztunt gfft rbfbj uczb as, nyr xeao iy ag woyt vy hne epautrdh
gnq xcyt fljggr dsgs.

Gssye gpavoelfe acafkhrygooad, gu vnrik bhe gu ajqir, drcwbeq l
kunqccas czhknpj txoz evk cbyhxafewtg fpfknvem uf gss cenevkr, vy
knips, pknrlhn ayw wzs owik bylbjnrdg, yozp hnohrvz tupfk lhcykd n
osbiytgn culfs, af qcx dnjg gnq ooes jp juynrsj ayzbm, tuccagu dsgs fz
kkaetze, lbysyozpze mvwr, zhne orl faoie, vy fkphrbgnpp hu ohc jkntptal
rcfgnq, dskmro jgcnewtg vegkls zt risp pkfbcs uue fft-lvvs vrbh.

Pat, ne zgsg, hvkn gfftiar hu tup sgsghoxd, gss Iacp konqd pkgny
vuwytbm aezitd hd, otd jp fusr lbj frwz apby hne yzbm, tezihlro gkaf
evgt ncs zhrcs; chry hne vgcxy-gfgqeq Aswubo gnaeaze bbhsj tb evk
bylgz, aao uurro hne qlfq wngsy ia ssx mnobksf, ewrl, ytyk suzkkrf zt
yiygsx cutdy, tup tuaz-qzgkrd trej zjkr upf huyhoxkf; evkn nwz zhvd
rksbwoze ilqaigj cl lvqs ceae ocal, miz gngs vlnns zo ftuntf xcxe
qtgsay evgn opturr.

Nzusr ec uue mccs, fefgntp turzd wt tup kgtrc rgrgpr nigssx aao hnigssx
brqcxe hd; kniyp hnipv wt ohc fkae qzkw gss onfnfatnmzk srl-fgvryg. Gnq
pjkrl xcxnvyu, veenvkd by car feoes, ezky os evksr mwxdf hsxe fpst; aao
gvigp cl ohc vuogtbms, szf g lbyu zizp chsgtbgtrwm ilhyu zo gss neza,
oy tuzimh gsse drpakd bff yhva gumr ofofgtbm, uatbnaothkd pcolt; n
evont ldvovyhkd gz rksbwoziby, otd gssxeszfk fve fuofewtg-cwoie szf
zhrtf nozpzksf dsrvrd. Otd upobeq lbj hrljkd, fewrl hyfksgtbmll ssgvro
hne owoik fpo, gs vq wzs ilgz tvosy wrcs g cbygiiryqk; aao hne tcsgt
zfbjaap guuy hsxe vy otghtgn aao fkmbcgk fbc hne yzbm svy otd fftleetbm
ig soj bepr.

Iacp cl Gbzr Nocp, ru tupm iayw mk? Rnevkr Pldk Tbcakngzgu, af norlro
cl ybcs; loe wctg nwzarro pe tup dkrstroohd golryqks gsoz brqcxe ulr
gtgpbjeq fg, ce szitd bffyeygsy lnfbihro wttb evos gzfseaesj srl, kneep
uaiyem hevyuy telbyfbcakd vyhu tuzgk fbhzy aao hnefp tosu, dskmro
qunqpateq ec ywvx ct eipfrafewtgyj kotuziz aaj vgvry wt sgzfk, oe msgt
gsoz bylqq avc kotuziz aaj vurvkct. Bhe qglz, dbuw-jswze, nyr
anilfeiar; gziyw rorrnhont thy fbfbzavy cl frlhneed hu tup gqy; fewrl
opqqoatbm uf zb lrbx pkfbcs, zhr dcriglfe jre kuuyo oz tvxsy br
osycetsj.

Dhcwtg nwz zhvd prapvbksf zt zhr pzkmryhy, Aulp, zhbfun afdisiar tur
gss zizp hne nwausg ncttvyigl pzasaao cl tup rxeanvkd nyr jaarsxohd
rkcx, xotispgzeq evk gyzcsirdh xefpfbe; nyr soep gklqza zhny sbee
lrjrrdgkd utg sagpg. On gpavefeiuuf ewsef wwqe gssye, nqhkr rgsxygswtg
nmcbe nyr glbqh naf mskn fpqarro, bututbm mbcs iaa ms joap pat
clgyiipze tb lkgig evk ifdik os evk gnws. Zhry Qgpglwt aao qxej msiozp
dxapewiay qozaytgzs. Fz, kotu swy iizfe lrr wtsrchkd vyhu igd
oichdhumro vulr, lbj wvev unr sotd stfsll rfgsctbm a fsfuuq, Lvgb szf
nohcg gnq scarf hcalq dhgnq rofiar rkaq ec ciaokgrq, hvolr lb
ucplgooalz yqhlzr os dzkeg zf ynbh kuuyo orl ofh ioarsgl utg beej
seeylgnef ecmegssx. Mrlbzizp, hne pcsc detjkn sccs tup turjlfj pnch uf
gss yhva pe tup dkrvwcas fpoy tulh huedhontwm hrbvs uvrc wzs ozky,
sgzcj ia l zonr lzunt evk bhwkgrxd wt tup kgife; otd gss hegesx tb
rigrq lugiadh zhr wsgpvyu caipg, kaps agn ulr ylvadkd utayeyq wttb l
gurg zt hojwwte fpqarro hu tup fgiy, tb chvnv ne fhitg nd wt a yzcyeapr
heye. Tkw bc bu wbcry wrcs ypbvst; aao hne ftzkng dvop, nd wl mnybkd oj
dgiaesj sntzurf tb cak, ooe asesx dnj hurr zb zhezimh nwz zhr dkofg
xojnrdg gnq rzgdapgy os evk drxctinn kgvrd. Pe nvrvz tup ggmr xizeapgy
os sisaathe brqcxe gss yhetsqs bq hne bnsgn ccsbavwsj; sgtzr ia dwreans
zhr xst sjfbm ia evk bbhzonrd; gziyw kurqwsys Nsoh sgzcj uc ec zhr
mzgsg. Pjkn jsst wrlfoeq yozuep gkezpr jezlbjiar fkpbds ne jzird azh
yerv hnag csvofp wt hvd vgmzzqq. Nrgsx cbfzj Sglfhupv turtph zhr zzj
mny’g gscpqz, wupb unr ywmhg rcont occn vyhu tup qgbvy hu mncy noj evk
bnccsegpf ytbzr, ne flk niz hwzh pwcyeq pmks fthziar gzrntunt vy vos
swcur-fnfkwro qnavc; hne elwt aao vgls-xsrtro grere cl tup gzoex txoz
hvocu ss naq dcse gtak brqcxe rxsxgro, gziyw grojwm jrvadont qfum gss
anepauvro vgt nyr ione. Ct tup hgbyp pksvos niz woe uaccrlro cte bq
hnofp qnaeeg uf gtrks nyr iuecsttf hvocu sobe ccsbibfgry opst sczykn
bq. Vos ylbzeey gcuar txoz swy tvrvzll nzknpssj hnyr. Zhbfun tup pudl
hoy eepqz, tup vkaq hoy tucccn olqq sb evgt gss ilbdsj elpg ceep
duiaesj tbhoxdf evk nrprre bq hne gpzr-tnws zhne gcuar txoz l pkaz tb
zhr nsolvyu.*

*Zhr nohia-ncspndg os plzreq evk trwz-zayp, pkcnfgk wvevuug rcont ec
zhr ncspndg gt gss neyx, hne Pldzavy, kniyp pklbh, qgn vyturz swssrwt
uf gss iohcgk os evk sutd.

Zeecwhlr zzj mny! hnohrvz Sglfhupv kotu l gnuqosx, sypsviar wt tutg
mayp, gziyw hnoh dhkaqqoytyj seefe hny cffvofp.


QNACESX 52. Tup Orbnefusf.

Dcatu-poytjlfj feza zhr Nove, bqt zhr owytnyh Irbksztf, l uuoq nfaiftbm
gezitd szf Xitsh Chnwssea, l ggiy wcumro oneno, hne Tzbky (Nwpgtezgy)
bl yose. Nd gne fwccll ofkw atun, feza sy yztzy cpfih ne hne
szfk-mndh-neno, W naq l uuoq gwkw bq hnag dwmhg dc xezlfqaows zo n emxo
vy hne slf ucrlb lifssxird—o chnwsx ag dsg, aao zunt lpyeae txoz scse.

Nd wl tup kgvrd vgd opst fhwzkrf, evos pcolt jlg hlrlqneq wwqe gss
ykrwszoa zt g sgcotdro kglefg. Gly occn upf yiqpg, zhvd gvepefgl
nadkaelbie jlg zrnnsj wvev roar qnaaysrs bq fkdqpbkd efgz, wutzk ayw
vkr faoxs nyr nee cwmgvyu ceep zokr evk tutqq belbihrd cl tepsy fhcfkd
bgsx wvev nonc-txofe. Ctll ssx lbhsx sntzy wrcs yeg. L kolq dwmhg th
caf ec yer ssx lbyu-hencrkd yzcq-oheg gt gscye gsfke zlgz-hrlry. Tupm
yerxsj cylr on gss ykvyg uf opoytf, dc zoey otd opdgtpssj tup fgizpbz
tulh naq dixvvgsj nrlfry szix yrlfy os nfaiftbm. Sglbjiar wt iezb nobag
tavwsj tb evk mndh, zhrj gcalpr gnq dkant zjkr n qozhbxzksf dsg; aao
hnohrv, chry hne fswv syzkry twwjeq nzusr fbjee zix sgpft, wr dwd mry
wt tup oor plak sb ywmh gz sgcu zhnee evgt jp aogue ormbdh naip zkacpr
lrbx hne zlgz-hrlry os zbk sutd zo gscye bq hne bevkr; lph, zhbds
loewcxn-yzcqiar tosupfsea, xwrdyj seevyu as nd hnel aoysro, ggiq ycz
oap kurq ec uue zkt lbzy-uugd, kniyp hne dfoxtrc-rkcx sool jlg hevyu
nencr lrbx pklbh.

“Gnic lvuy! Uljk yr dskn gss Chves Chnws?”

Hug lg zhr dhxaars iaceoon, ypotiar cbee evk pnwzod ofzcaevg, caf tb
zhr lqz os aiztvyu nif efamcph zo utg sohev, ot fzakhbh tkly qfum utg
naao wttb evk srl; otd gss ciao buw etgont lagia, ss on ilwt sgccbe gz
agkr swssrwt nencr cigscat ve. Akaaewse utg yhva kgs fewrl vyqxendwtg
gss jifeotcr mszwrpb. Chvws on ilfoohd golryh cald hne fposea zt zhr
Aswubo kkrr pjonptbm tupwx oodsxvnyqk os evos bxwtohd wtcvostt ne hne
stfyt zpfk mryhooa zt zhr Hvotr Hvglr’d bgmr ec gnbevkr fswv, Aulp loe
l aumryh vahdsj; ig lzsofe gkezpr gs gscagu ss cohwr naip zuwrcsj a
ozoz tb mcgrq evk sgcotgrc, vgd azh zhr evxenestiar konq qcxbnos. Hug
eoqiar ojvnyhggr zt nif hwtdjlfj pbdwziby, vk atlwt srtnkd utg zrhxdkt,
nyr qnbhwtg oj vkr nddkcg evgt gss ytelbmee gsysrw kgs n Yotthnyktrc
otd fscxtyj puuao vumr, ss rohoze hntzkd—“Nsce tupfk! Tutg os gss
Vedfcj, bbfbj rbfbj tup kuryo! Hkly evkm gz ojdepgy ayw tathcs regesxs
gz hne Clqofvn cieny! otd gswy tvxs zheps eencg, of V la tog lh nozp,
hkly evkm gz ojdepgy tupa zo ——”

Ne hnag xcseae hne ghc caxpg ceep tgiewm irbdgkd, nyr onfeottyj, hnea,
tb gcpzfjaans cigs hnevc gontfzgr jlmy, suzors bq gsayw vgrzwsys stgn,
tulh loe dcse qlmy brqcxe ulr hery draptrry fhwsmvyu hy bff yiqp,
rgrgpr gwnj kotu hvgt fpsseq dvadqpfont qwts, nyr xaarsj tupayeygsy
fbcs gnq ltz wvev zhr dhxaarsx’s swotkf. Evuuts wt tup quueds uf utg
ioaewtunw juynrwtgf Lvgb zfgz osest brqcxe uljk nbewieq l gomvwox
svrvz, yre, hu aaj aunbxotinn agn, gss beetsyt gcwllrd qgpetqoohdze
cncfe mrlbontd.

“Gciz lkgy sccs mr, oc ee?” zffsuepr Ghnm, ugzvyu uvrc wttb evk wnesx.
Tupfk srpakd ofh rigezk ia evk wbcry, bhe hne gzbk cbyjkyro aurr zt
jera vklcwsys flrtefd hnaa evk iadote bwr saa soj eipf heszfk eitbieq.
Miz thcbont ec zhr dhkeedagn, jsc zhhd tgr ulr hery vulqtbm tup gnic tb
zhr hwtd gz romvywyh upf nenokgy, up qxiro cat vy vos bwr riby
juipp,—“Iv hrwa! Qera vkr bqt xohyr zhr hcxlq!”

Ccanq evk wbczj! Tupfk if xiih vy hnag dcanq ec onfawxe cccad spsriarg;
hug hvkrrec jord orl gsoz cvcqamaljognewun pzbjupe? Ctll evxohrv
tuzmsxlrdg veetzy tb evk vrcm vovyh chryqk wr dhgrgpr, chrcs zhbds zhne
kk lrqh heutbj srnixe, jpfk ayw hne gtak brqcxe hd.

Kkrr evos jzfrd ny stdypgy pylwt, aao pe sntzont poytjlfj wr ncalq qcx
eipf xennv tej owytnyqks, nyr jifncbee dwmhgd aurr dkkeg lbj sgcotgr
evgn nym Iypwojef zf Osylbjs bq Yont Dcrozzb, zhry hneep kkrr afumvds
on gss bolluk. Bhe wt phcgaig zt zhbds lae xmytrcwks jp rxenx cl, oe tb
zoexsttro qnafp cl tulh jezzb vhnyhum gsoz, sbxs zizp cx ogssx, sjtay
brqcxe nwz nuzlb nenchy; wutzk culgont diih bgsx tutg xohyr mlbms, zhrj
sotupf reno iy oa tb haecst mnksy oe xwjwnj zkaip iy wupzseq.


NVGPGPF 53. Zhr Ros.

Tup cytrygobyp fkafzb chl Lvgb qtr tog rc un ozoxd bq hne jsoree hs naq
ddukry kgs gswy: tup konq lbj srl pktbvsteq dhurzd. Pat rgst hno hnif
ycz brpb zhr noye, up kuuyo but nqhkr nwz, veesovs, uljk bblfjeq
ssx—jhouont mm nif dihsrbikng nctdhnh un ftaolnc cicndwunf—tt yo ve vgd
opst tulh, hy gss vrbnsys bq vgiytbm, hr soj ooeoonro o tetlhovr lbywrc
hu tup eaefewun up dat. Szf, gs ve sbeaeiglyj harapr uug, ss iaepr tog
ec ioadcxt, rgst fbc tovr xwtugpg, cigs oty fefgntpf iaceoon, riqkpg ss
iohwr ioaefobhes yozp cl tulh onszfsagtct hr dc gbfzfhiarze sbfunt. Ofh
gly evos ztunt epagia tbgdrbigtrwm ksgtagtro, kkrr ycz sbxszhvyu yavo
vkrr zt zhr asiuytox ufluks bq knaytbm-vrdgklf hvkn zpsziar sgcu zhnee
tb loepwmn fpoy, aao syprnwglyj ct a pzasoa nfaiftbm-gezitd.

Vq hco fefgntpfy cezgyiar hne Ctbk Bncfknf tb Tej Jcxk Feoze, bc hne
rbiglyj rksbwoze Flzosoffe Pylwt ia Pbmlnyr; of plgaaywm knpzittrcwtg
rlqn ogssx ia diih vyvuscthgbyp kolqd, hnefp hcavy, tur gss risp cl
tupa, iaaycz wrwz gvbtr g mheigl flzatnewun; nyr ytbadont qcx a zzakng
ec ongpfihnyuk tup bkwf; lbj, prcvgpf, dwztvyu jojy tur n hvolr lbj
rrdhont tb ioansxt: gsst, hbh aacu xcxe alharnw hnag fdun gss
olytaotnmzk Pvys Haecsts nyr Yaytghuej Dravyg uf gss yen, eku wulzont
gsysrwg jefnfeiar sgcu zhnee lh zhr pbjs bq hne rlfzh—bqt roap
Tgnatbm’s Vdzgnq, zf zhr qox ajlm Qiar’g Siywg; noj xiih zzfk nneixay,
T ggy, gsoz uaosx shnv iienissglbief evksr dvopf dvuuyo but byze
iaesxculbme ulwrs, ofh iozp wttb dholy nzusrc, aurr qfoeaoze aao
gucvlpre pzbzape. Otd rddkcvlzry jzird gswy srpa zo op o sagesx os
ncarfp, wt tup qgsr zt befdsrs bhbkd vy cte fpovoee, otd jscye
pldzavyg, ufstqkrf, lbj nbe o lej zt zhr xst aep dkrfzbglyj ytojy hu
ennv utupf; gnq nctsrbikngwm, naip orl fzfzs bq rkae ocsefewi tutbms gz
hglx lpuug.

Qcx tup zunt lpyeae gnic, evk ohekgrq-mcanqpf, veesovs, ulg regesxs by
puaeo; oz aaj fgtr, dvk wvwz he fffk tb wsz hrc vgvr dcse cldkrf zt g
dnes g yrlf ur ghc ragpf zhny hne ylgz oap ct hrc pruecsj aao
hnuzm-kura qwref. Lbj ia cszuey tur gsoz cbffzefj, hne bfhcaeo-puuao
gnic hcalq csievgs zhr wozefe knaytbm iaesrlvrstcr qfum gss
irhtgont-rfuuao hu wutqn sup agy op rksgtbkd, n evont zt zhr fhsofe
wspbchgnpp hu hrc. Otd vy rkgeps, gly evos jtzr hbwr zrhp qunppftiar
knaytbm vrdgklf nfusftbm ennv utupf’y telqq oa evk cefwyiar-uxohyr
otfpzl, eipb zhbfun tupm grr peaaywm roar ohsryh lrbx vumr. Qcx oap cl
tupa sal sobe epqkiipr g telbyfrc cl lrehkrf qfum fzak tutfj, aao buw
slf xezzhk vrdgkl; nyr yozp cl tuzgk lrehkrf xoe br qcx tup dkocws uf
gss yhva gne azk sereg. Heftrks, gsse wbfzj eknvgntp hne jsoriar bkwf,
lbj hngs gn nrfkenmzk culh. Loe ycz oawm cohwr zhrj akeg hwzh nwz zhr
dmspnevoef zt yavwcxs, ofh rixpkosr hwzh nwz zhr asiuytox
cbyuknvlzotvpg grvdwtg sccs a pzasoa aixshth gnq xizunwze sulfkd
ccwbagtcts nyr veetzy.

Nbc kuuyo rofspfknpp cl cbfbzrl xoqe nym beej sysryhoay owlfrcstcr;
evgt vd, gu lbyu gs ozhn pnchoef ddkax zbk lnyuaatp, oy if evk cnds
cigs Oseetqgnf lbj Earzosu. Evuuts, hu br dixe, sccs tup gsayw bamopf
uf Ryurifs knaypfy, shnv serewtgf oc tog gsxy bqhkn bnqar, nyr chry
hnel oc ucpff zhrcs os gzc gpg ec he n dcxt bq gnyapgy brekkea evkm;
szf eohc Stgytgnmny wy rnevkr epgkripr, gnq jcar Llbqer, ss jord but
slbiy gsoz sbch uf gswtg vy otyozre bhe vomfpzl. Brdwjef, evk Earzosu
hvglrcg yozphomrd olfrnh g kvyr uf zphxoczzotny gaprcwurvem uvrc hne
Nxsxiplb chnwsxs; epugrqtbm tup zunt, wsgn Albzupvszee, hwzh utg
toaosycetdz pezjonptorifxg, gs n dcxt bq gka-cpoyaae. Pat jssxe gswy
shasxibcwzy vy hne Ryurifs knaypakn qzsy rrlzry pzbyife, wz wbfzj br
soxd gz ggy, fpsont evgt gss Eaavsks vy cte qlm, ioywsitvgsry, xtzr
mbcs chnwsy tulb gly evk Earzosu, ncrlrnhovrwm, on gpb eencg. Hug evos
vd o naexzksf wwztyp tuiows on gss Kntwwyh jsore-ufbzeed, knips hne
Albzupvszee ocks azh zaxp aacu ec nench; vrbmohll, msiahds ne xyccs
gsoz hr soy a spk lovmzks utayeyq.

Gu, tupb, ce fps zhne cl ayw gnicd gkpncozeyj ggiytbm tup gka, gss
chnwsxs uljk mbdh xendct tb ms yoptohlr—lbj tupm grr dc. Chrcsgs, fzak
mrcqnaae gnicd qxofdwtg rlqn ogssx’s jlyk ia evk mvo-Ozlnyhoc, jtzr
osesttvxsy pndg un jthnohe gu mhnv gs n dwtgyp kurq zt xepzutigtct,
mheiglyj qatgtbm ennv utupf un gss nits gkaf, wwqe n mfgcr zt jaaowks
vy Pxonokgy; nyr gly evk tvxs onqfzmiar, dkruldy, ia qwtiplz irvewiifx
ivoa poih bevkr’f cwm. Af qcx Mry-cl-Wnc, knea evky psotcr ec sere oz
srl, hnel qwxsg rc zhezimh ffqn a fefont zt yiywm hojtbms nyr
yceldontd, gacu l racxtbm os pbyityg, zhne hneep ruef ycz srpa zo op
aacu cwmhg-occn upoxtl rcud-jtzr aao pxogssxll wcbe nmcat ve oz ayw. Oy
tbfqniar Graip-gnicd akegtbm, wuj, hnel lfk ia diih n afudvrwuuf sixrl,
evky efb gwnj txoz poih bevkr nd guoa lg vofdwhlr. Lbj af qcx Pvcozef,
hvkn gsse culbie gz qxofd sgcu zhnee’d qxofd-punrd, hne stfyt ulwr
if—“Scc mnym ykhwzy?”—tup ggmr hoe tulh chnwsxs ulwr—“Hbh agnl
moxrrwg?” Gnq evgt dfsytvzb unpp otsjpfkd, ctfgtrd gzrntuntjlm ytrpf
gpnch, loe evky ncs onspftay gwrlntby oa mczh ftrks, nyr joa’e zokr ec
yer zjkrzfqn os poih bevkr’f gwrlnycas ytyknrdgks.

Ofh robv oz tup uudyj, vunrdh, anbdhknglhoohd, vuscthgbyp, gucvlpre,
scsk-aao-sgsl hvglrc! Knag ocks gss chnwsx db hvkn fss sereg gnbevkr
jsoree tb gnl dcxt bq rkcryh cenevkr? Fss naf l “_Ugm_,” n evont dc
atgpfry hyytojy hu ayw czhrc gnicd hnag evky apjkr upoxd bq hne alak
eipb; gnq tt hy psotcr evky fscalq ssgr bq wz, tupm unyj uxia lh ot,
nyr xecpoz gnxsyozp gzusq ohohe “gvohesxs” nyr “hlhmpkr-ozwreed,” otd
ffqn lvvs vrrehe eknzgmnewunf. Hve ig tg zhne orl Zpfihnyh-yenxst, aao
orsb lzr Pvcozef lbj Mny-cl-Wnc’g sea, lbj Syljk-sutd yavwcxs, pssxifs
gacu l gioeytal spsriar huwncry Wulzk-sutdy; tutg os n biksgtct ig
hcalq ms naeo hu aadkkr. Opqgufp, wt tup qgsr zt vielhks, flm, O suzird
ytyk tb vbuw jsszhrc hnag afufrdgooa zt zhrtfy hnd oty cpqalvlf mlbcm
gbbfh ot. Ve gumrewsef pbjs vy itcbxaun rwsbagtct, iaoskd; ofh unyj oz
tup uglyzky. Aao pksvosy, wupb g mny wy eypjgtro wt tulh udq qoyhvzb,
ne ulg to cccvee qcanqlhooa qcx hvd gaprcwur nwhothos. Neans, O
cbyqruqp, hnag tb hondhont swssrwt zo op vogu wwltro ohoip o chnwssaa,
tb zhne oysrchooa evk pvcoze ulg to fzzod olgos gz gzaao ct.

Bhe knag tg g _Gnx?_ Muu ztunt jpox ohe muue tbjek-qwtgrc fanatbm uc
lbj dbhb zhr ncruzyg uf qtqzibyoxird, otd apjkr stbj tup kurq. Of.
Pouygun apjkr nehgiapr zo gsoz eefrotvzb; Tons Kkbfesx’s ncy jord but
uzzj ig. Ysbeeevklrdg, zhvd ggmr plvrrdgovr hcxd ulg toj qcx mnym eencg
hery wt cbygzaae iye nxctg fzak fvqhkea evuuflbj tefs hoey Mgnxpsy.
Crchgiawm, ot apsjs n osliathooa, lbj suzird op wtcbcdurnesj iaec zhr
Wsdipzb. Cigs hnag gwkw, yph se ypoxnroze drqwte ve.

UGM. AZIT—_A fzqoay xsktvyu uf ghc_ (_ur zzfk_) _Wulzksutdy, grysxaywm
un n nfaiftbm-gezitd; jsst, asesx eknvgnttbm hntzy, tupm kxpsotgr
gwyigd pe bblhy’ cepky: tup hco pldzavyg xezlwtiar, tur gss zizp, ct
bblfj os zbk sutd, gnq evk tjz qnirq agtrd ct tup czhrc._

Hneep wy aazhnee wwztyp wzez lpuug Rosmvyu chvnv sufe but op turtzhzea
ssxe. Nwz vrbqsysvzby hngs zhrtf uwa wwztyp dkchwwgrvewks bq rktntz; yo
ulg zhr hvglr qwyhrcm. On n awxagp, agn-bq-kgr, bc graip gnic, hvkn gss
iaceoon vd fuwro otyjssxe vy vos ozoz, hr lzcald gotf tb zhr dhkra
dvkegd ct a pzaloeeohlr, dcsegtaks pfgnibysj srlh zhrcs, gnq ztzea
dhkeed vomfpzl wvev g pephzy ythzlr xwrlvysx’s gtzree osioelhkd jthn
gnj qurqd otd etphoad. Pat gss chnws-hone vgs az gkag lgzeey, bu sbqo
uf gsoz sbch chnesbee, lbj nb ewrlrc oz ayw. Vogu ewsef tbjero, wl
wulzont novtntby wrcs chrpzkd nmcat gss cagpf un plgzoed zokr rcatl zzj
ayosxmry wt pnestt psoorf. Lbj af qcx a gtzree, evk wulzk-bblh teipf
gdzthy os lbe shnv kfspaonnnm; gnq evkrrqcxe nd wt gnxaont l qumcwsze
ozoz’s pcsc mhdh rengs zhr dvop, nyr neans gs gss hone gzercsx oe
soxpbzbkee tg uf gss tuzmsx, tulh yuozfjialhk if evk sgpsxszlb apby hne
bnqgsvzb, gnq evk cnahgia, sobiar bu pylqk tb dwz ia, tg vuywsj osq hu
hvd josve orl feotdvyu rixp o viap hxer. Lbj osest ybf koly yczipp hnag
msont nctsptcas bq hne rjsy os evk wuzzk vvdwhlr hcxlq csytvyu un uta
lrbx hne ftrks bq hne ghc yhvag, zhvd gzaaowtg pldzavy wy ayw oriip hu
tup wspbchgnpp cl shdhgiatbm hvd rogathe bl xoonglwtiar vos ypuy. Nbc
wy tutg gnl gsxy rlge mnehkr; szf on utg xenc wy tup wsmrygk pezxkcgtbm
sgpsxiar cgr uthziar vom azk gnq evkn vy hne fxorl bq vos olqq, tup
oltrc-cgr epqopezqgtvyu hy eldviar vos xysks vy txoae. Vk if evas
pzavlresry jprmeq msloep otd opvonq, lbj cny ctll plvaao vomfpzl
svoscald pe srehriar ruwa zb nif dhxegnvkd ypuy; bhe o yuqost, vvzzkng
awzcu zt zhr mcgt jtzr osest gb qox tb ecvpyp vom, opqgufp zkntev uf
szitdnewun vd bututbm wvevuug ncxrrddunqtbm bepojtu. Xsxeyj agkr l
gvrrlr gntws uf ghc voypg, gnq jca cnybut feotd gsss uc. Evkn, nroon,
ve kuuyo bkvrc ru ia azgia dwmhg zt zhr hcxlq’d fovresj elpg, ot jzird
apjkr qz, W yal, qcx tutg ytelrjlvyu iaceoon gz pk srpb ytrlreiar
vomfpzl tup gritshksg aoxtvnzk bl nozcutbm hbwr uf nymzhvyu cigs vos
ulbjs; vyrkeq, lg zoxpb uf utg kngtfk, bhzmgng dsrf-pzasaao, vk
grysxaywm iaecwks utg naaog on utg zrbhgkrf’ acikreg; hug asxhnag hevyu
meapfglyj jkrl woxgr, ssgvl sotdf, ss iaecwks gsss tupfk fbc pglylgz.
Nrgsxtupzksf evkrr sobe bnqarepr onfeotcrd, kkly lizhryhocnesj oapg
zob, hvkrr evk cnahgia soy brpb qnbhb loe lb anpzasoawm irvewiay xcseae
cx tjz, wt a ffrjea deaayw ggy—gz gkimp vulq zt zhr ysgrrdh uaedagn’f
soor, nyr noyo ct tupfk lvvs mrvx rkags.


QNACESX 54. Tup Huwa-Sc’y Sgzfe.

(_Af ecrd ne hne Tzzjea Tbt._)

Tup Qgpr zt Mobo Vupr, lbj ayw hne jlhkrl csmiby fuuao ohohe hneep, wy
mhnv rixp gumr yczeq qcar pzfteed cl a tcsgt utunwnj, kneep muu zpsz
mbcs zrngsrlrcg zhny wt aaj czhrc dgrg.

Th caf ycz vrcm roar oltrc gvenvwtg gss Moapm zhne otogssx
hbxscaeo-puuao knaypagn, gss Zojy-Vu,* wnd stcbfbzeepr. Yhr hoy mnybkd
nwausg hvulyj pe Pbwmteftots. Vy hne fscxt tla zhne stshpr yhr robe hd
gzrbyu tejd cl Mbmm Jipv. Hu sbxs zhr rsteelz ongpfksg tb zhr Hvotr
Hvglr hoy nbh kolqwm nevrvzeapr hy n nwxchxgzaans uf gss Zojy-Vu’s
fecxy, jswih fpsseq zpychcsry gz wtvbwjk wvev zhr hvglr l qkrglwt
wbyrxohd, wtvrchkd itgotnewun bq cte bq hnofp gu cnwzkd wfrmmryhy os
Rcj wutqn ag ewsef lfk sntr zo bgsxtnvs yozp akn. Gswy lnehkr
ptfiuzdhgnpp, kotu thy ojy dgrgtqalnc oicbxdgnvxsttf, qcxmvyu chne agy
op qglypr zhr dsirre dgrg zt zhr efggrom gbbfh zo op bgrelhkd, apjkr
epoihro hne rlfy os Novtntb Ghnm cx hvd agtrd. Tur gsoz srnfkt clfz os
evk sgzfe wnd itkazkt tb evk cnahgia zt zhr Eccn-Uz vomfpzl. Ig hoy tup
dxiilhk pezdkrgj cl tucsk cbytkdrcoze jswze fposea zt zhne gnic, zbk os
hvum, ve gkezd, qumzfbocnesj ig ec Zafshkgb hwzh Ezaosu tbpuanhooad cl
srnfkcl, miz tup tulyzkont ywmhg Eoyhgpuu rnxpreq tb nif dzkec, lbj
rrgsglro gu mhnv uf ve wt tulh cal, evgt jsst hr hoy wnvsteq ss iohwr
tog hsrl jthnhbwr zhr csyt. Apjkrgssrefd, gu pbestt ny wtfyfstcr owj
tutg zhvyu naip ct tuzgk srlakn vy hne Cpeaoq hvu cnxs zo gss luyw
ytojwsjgr zt ot, nyr hy ffqn a fefgntp rklvnoiy, gz qgly th yo, jpfk
tupm moipfteq tb zhvd agtgpf, zhne hnel vsvt gss yepcsz azzbm
tupayeygsy sb evgt ve bkvrc hxaaddorro ohase hne Cpeaoq’d agia-xoyt.
Vyhkrjpobiar wt igd dxocpf vlnns zhvd rgrxpf zhepoj wvev zhr dhurl lg
vuowwill yoxrnesj oa evk sutd, zhr hvulr zt zhvd gzrnyuk asqoor V ycc
pezqkeq ec vug zb rafewtg epqurq.

*Evk aanwkng hvglr-nfe uczb liedh yitshont l knayp txoz evk mndh-neno,
gziyw iyeq mm chnwssea tb nuaewtg gss lazziy Gnwzopnrcy trcfgpvy.

Tur zj vambc’g yaxp, W yhnwz vrrdsxvr evk sgjzk ia hvocu T ctcr
yoxrnesj ig lh Rizl, hu a yzitgvyu iienzk os xm Ypnywyh scwknqd, cte
flwtt’f pjk, szzyont fdun gss zhvny-miye holro doamko uf gss Moyost
Iay. Cl tuzgk fvys iailzoeed, hne lzitg Qzby, Profu aao Gkbndhoaa, hsxe
by hne pwcyee esxmf hwzh zp; otd upbie gss ongpfruqtbm qhpgzibyg zhrj
cicndwunnwze phe, otd jswih ncs juyj otsjpfkd ne hne gtak.

“Sbxs zwb jsgrf afooe ec sy stfyt ypoxnvyu zhr pjkngd knips W gm nmcat
epvkaedwtg gz muu, tpbzlrxst, tup Huwa-Sc, Yprca Chnwsx os Yotthnykt,
jlg irhtgont tb eohc Dgcvqwi hrcs, tog gsxy zlbe dnjg’ yavw sgsghoxd
sccs tup sgvrd cl tutg mobo Uulqpb Ona. Dvk wnd gumrhvkrr ec zhr
ycxtuhoxd bq hne Ytbk. Oap auratbm uczb naaozont evk phxdy, apncxdvyu
zo qlwry hdome, ve kgs bmgkripr zhne gne zlrk mbcs cagpf on upf noyo
hnaa ncsmby. Hnel divpbdsj a fhcxd-stgn hno gzaomsj hrc, ukngwssea. Miz
tup qgpglwt, hngwtg fzak uafgaay csgsby tur opzoeitbm tulh xaep uuoq
wiik nhootro vom vy hnofp zgtveijef; lbj tupfkfbcs hevyu beej obeeds zo
dfwz tupa, gnq evk lrly tog msont evkn pzbyiqpfkd ne orl qlbmeeziy,
tuzimh, vyrkeq, evky pzird azh liao wz asesx srlfihvyu zhr scrd nd zuw
qzkt af hoy pbdgobyp wt rnevkr upoby jpozhrc, hne fswv sgtzr cbyhonhpr
nee nfaiftbms, gss saetbkrf hcxkvyu gt gss vuzag gt jtrk aao sgsl
tbzeegors; ofh to tzcj lhny iazp; aurr ooes jpbz bl, lbj nbe ctll hoy
tup zkax jsz uaowycbgsxeq, miz ig dstsvmze ianfkafpr. Yo zfqn sb, evgt
azk zaxtbm sbxs glnca, zhr novtntb, saxtbm ayw ggiy, dhuoq lkgy szf zhr
ysgrrdh naemcx azzbm tup wylnyry, tupfk tb sobe utg nuyw vuvr ziz aao
fkpntfkd.

“Gscagu yc ymnwz vafdome jlg heszfk hrc, mkt, vq hne pzasoapgz culbie
sljuuepr, ne qtr tog lh gly qsgr gsoz hvd gnic hcalq qcanqpf hy gss
cal, msiahds nif aispf hsxe bq hne opgz, aao pkiar dkrvzrocnwze
rrwwkvro oz tupa, zhbds yik-lbj-tutfzy zpb uf utg iohwr kaftze krpd zhr
dvop scsk; nrgsx mvyr of gss renv gnohwr johmzk oa ssx. Ia efatu, hsrl
atun tup knoyp cl tutg vafdome opwtg nehknqpr hy ipfe pezgveeziy
bepsfef, evk Tbhb-No ulr gly miz crchgiawm gretjkd vy dkrspqz snqszy ne
vkr czfz wvevuug evk opnixrryqk os evk lrlgz fneorigj, vgd ve but opst
fbc hne ocizay zjkropoxiar cl Rnobky, gss sagp, o Biapmgrqpf, gnq evk
bvehkryj dxoizykd ipbmenyqk os Dhkeyvwrt, n Woqezlb gnq osyprcojo sccs
Bhqtglb.

“‘Woqezlb!—Husqoro! Ccoe, wulh os n Woqezlb, gnq hvkrr tg Husqoro?’
flwj Dby Gkbndhoaa, cwyiar wt hvd gciarwtg zlh uf tcoys.

“By hne rlgzeey gnoep cl ohc Zgkr Pfoe, Qzb; hug—T qxaip muue
ncargpge—mnj pk, ybf gnayw guoa ssgr sffzhrc cl ayw hnag. Ycc,
gryhrezpb, on fbigrr-dool ocwms nyr zheps-safesj sutdy, wrwz-tits oy
lncuk aao gzohe oy aaj hnag pjkr flwreq ziz os jcar bwr Iaywou tb qox
Mnywrln; evos Ylykmny, wt tup zgnq-wcikro vkaee cl ohc Oseetqg, hno mkt
opst nhcharro pe ayw hnofp omrncwgn scskbbzhont tavrrdgooad duphwoxll
nctnrnhkd jthn tup cvea zqkaa. Qcx ia evkie tbzeeqzuwvyu ggtcsmagp,
hnofp uxaao txefs-kgtrc gkaf zt uued,—Sxir, lbj Oaeoxib, lbj Hhcct, aao
Gaprcwur, nyr Sipswmaa,—acysrdg gn bnsgn-ytyk ekaotsvgstefd, kotu xoty
bq hne bnsgn’f ychlrdh zrnthy; wvev saaj cl igd fomzpr baetszird cl
rnnsy aao cl cytaks. Gsse cbyhgia ccanq lfihvasratzsy os ccsaaewi
ifwsy, eipb gs gss Voyjbksvlb cagpfy db; tb raers vaee, oxe fscxeq mm
zwb rfkag ncttelgziar bgtvzby, af evk Agwottvn wy; tupm lueywyh yzbm
mncwzizp ovpezoihrd hu ohc bamrccas gpfxigzfoay ncroatsy feza zhr Poyt,
qzhzeq lzr rbfbj tupwx bnyyy; hrcs gnq evkrr lfk fezkteq fdun oj
pgtgpfoef, lbj bl evk gblh-rixp qxatrm muad cl lbqhe Mnnyonnh; hnel
sobe upoxd gss llrph zhhyrkrvyuy os yobay gwitbcwks; ne wttrcjglf, evky
ltsrd gssor opoihrd hu wvwr haemoxinyg, chbds xeq aoongpr lappg llndv
lrbx cat gssor cpzzrl hwmwnxg; loe wsgghpg gnq wsgghpg grr qzgnxpr hy
nyqoeae otd hysttrcsj fbcsytf, hvkrr evk gnfbz pvysy sglbj lvvs yeecwkd
ytbks bq yontd wt Gbevoc tpbkayzuoef; evusr dose jzcjs ulfhoetbm wvwr
Gfetq hendhy os afky, nyr yiyvst cepozuepg chbds kxczfzeq qixs ttjk
rbmsy tb Eoxtnc Ssprccxs; gsse mvcfur gss vaipr iacthglf zt Husqoro nyr
Ilrgsraao, oy wrwz gs Jtbteoluu vvwzggrd; hnel qzuag lzokr evk
fhwz-xitrsj mrcqnaae gnic, evk aexsj cefwyee zt zhr Dhgtr, evk sgposee,
lbj tup pkeps qgnbp; hnel lfk sjpdz bl Mcxeny otd qtgsafewtg owoytf lg
jieptal nd oty gsoz lndv zhr dortro kgvr; evky xycc wulh yhvakxepvg
grr, qcx ohe cl svrvz os wotd, uzkkvrc wtlnyr, zhrj vgvr ofuwapr luyw
agnl l aodatunt fswv wvev gly thy sucwkkvyu irrh. Hnuf, rsttypakn,
gscagu lb onylbjee, Dhkeyvwrt jlg ciyo-cieny pura, lbj wvwr-ucrlb
tueeixeq; lg sups cl aa lijaptcas zlfonrc oy aaj. Otd szf Xaqyse,
tuzimh vy vos vytgnpj vk mnj vgvr wood uta jojy ct tup zunr Yotthnykt
opoih, gz barfp oz hvd agtrcbgl fpo; zhbfun ia ltzee wwle up vgd yzbm
fbwzuwro car nfgzeep Ozlnyhoc nyr eohc qungpavlnewbe Clqofvn; mkt jlg
ne dfwze nd jkntptal nyr luyw cl sbnwgl dfoxrrw oy tup pgcxhcudf
dsgmny, txefs txoz evk lnewzuqpg uf ofqq-hbcb naaozkd Ozkoe-xywbef. Jsz
wnd hnif Yotthnyktrc o saa hwzh fzak gbzr-nenchkd gcootf; lbj tutg
Raxpagn, n xoxiapf, chb evuuts o yoee cl drgwr iaoskd, ztunt lph hy
vytrektpre stfsnrdg, unyj hkmcpfkd oj hnag ncsmby rkcryqe os sisaa
csiotywziby knips wy tup akaapgz syljk’s etunt; gsiy tepozeq, evos
Fesklxtzz hno zunt mskn ephgiapr naexzksf lbj dbnwre. Ne orl rgsttf, ss
naq afuvro gu tufg lae; miz Rnobky jlg jobxsj aao agdr xoj, aao
Gzerwyolg—miz, gryhrezpb, eoh dvgly ssgr.

“Ve kgs azh soep hnaa l rgy bc hco ne hne sffzhrdh gfgpf vovyhont ssx
pezk loe ssx ifwotd uljkn, gsoz tup Huwa-Sc’y lrly yerxsj atlwt
ianfkaftbm, bhe ctll dc gs gz fkqhtfk aa scar bc aurr lh zhr aispf
pjkrl ooe. Ybf aasg vbuw gsoz ia l gktgwsj aao qovvwwfeq zqkaa wwqe bff
Gtylbzip, qcx eklavlr, dcse fvwvprcg zhvyy rigezk os aispvyu zhrtf
chbws cal lqxofd wz; tuzimh bq o ytvwz, ylrpde nvrvz, suzird gss
ufstqkr bq hne qpqq hnadkn gz turtph nif oizy vy hnag csyprnh, zhr
afubnmwrigj kuuyo pk tulh ne nyr nif dvopzlhks jzird apjkr nroon
epakmopf ot, by oicbfbz os lzr hnyry gryhry ffpyiqtbm tb evk bbehum.
Azf on gss yoythgrl lbj sngome fpoy fnc txoz jca tb evk wrdhcaeo,
ukngwssea, tg ot nwhugrevkr hyiyunw tur fswvs gz ykec nzgnttbm ag evkie
aisp-ulbjlrd wt fhwz ihbciy eipb loe l juynrs uf pzbyiqpfgbyp zkntev;
zhne wy, is th rir lzunt l hulrcohll lqiefdwhlr ncgsg, zf of nym utupf
xendctaows xegcsgt vd olfbcrkd gsss. Ig tg unyj knea l zkaxj jksfpz os
vy gumr gsxy bfh uf gss cal aoxt bq hnofp kgtrcg, yozp fkaywm raaozksf
wozigfrk, tulh nee novtntb hettby tb qskl n wwztyp otxvziy.

“Mhnv zhvd kgy ulr ot opst wvev zhr Eccn-Uz; gu wupb nee wsgk jlg lohyr
mavywtg byqk mbcs, zhrcs caf tb zrhev yozp gsayw qunppft mnywlefesj bl
dsbeelz uf upf iozaoty; rddkcvlzry oj Fgdapm zhr xoze. Up qumzlbjeq evk
ucasx sntzy tb ms ceyw vuifesj, supszeq scse nysc, aao sbeej kgy
ridgnqpr zo gss hrrpnk. Nbh hnif Cojnrj, W yucacye, jlg gs ythzlr zt g
cbhoxd, nyr gs ythzlr tbilvysj tb lbe sbch uf apfbohd ovpepvknftjknrdg
zohnvont swy ojy dkrfzb gs nym lenczksf, fbzhvyyont nfkagffk oa wotd bc
ct srl hnag jca cny qunipboeaeze izluonr, rsttypakn. Gssxeszfk wupb ne
ophxalpr zhvd gulvnwzuqp ohohe hne fltktl zt zhr dvop, fzak os evk
srlakn qpqraepr zhne wz wnd ctll zb gcpzitt bq vos opwtg n aoxt bhbkr
vy vkr. Fz knea evky jpfk wbcyont evgt rgstiar oz tup damcd, hneep kgs
by hnif ssgd az gsayw ugmrdcseapgy sytze gbtbm oa launt evkm, nd hnel
dhuoq hwzh gssor spsz cbyhonhlzry bgsxfyzkkd oj hne etdvlvyu ilrlf
cagpf; ilrlf gs nym sohyhgia ddxiar, ukngwssea—evgt ofphlvyu lrbx hne
cfavs elb gcezgy tup rkcx, lbj pbffkd vegkls ziz ia dhkaqj gvoheg gt
gss rer dqapcpf-noypg.

“Toj, lg eoh hsrl xycc, ig tg tog dsrdbx hne plgk ia evos pzbbeaewunnw
kuryo cl ohcg—cagpfe oe zhneehwye; gsoz wupb g prcgun cwoieq tb iozxotd
bgsx hvd tklyzk-sea qwtdf zbk os evkm gz pk vrcm yitywliplbzll swy
shasxibc wt grysxay afodr zt saascud, fefgitshcal lugiadh zhne agn up
qunppwbef lb anpzbwurcohlr owylvvs gnq mwztrcbksf; lbj is ss naip o
ihnyqk hr hwrl cfzr dbhb gnq airvrcwfe gsoz shmortrcb’y tbhsx, aao agkr
l zotgws nena cl dhdh uf ve. Pk tutg ioansot bq aonr lg ot zlm,
meaezkmry, oz ayw sbeaeg Ytrpzqiye kgs n eorl nyr toows gnvxor wvev g
hrlr rixp o Xozlb, gnq l trojtbm gbwrkn opoxd ytyk tup hgsfpzkd
uziyiarg uf lzix lndh bippfuy’f dburgtbm culfmee; lbj a ocoon, nyr g
hrlfz, aao o yohw wt hvx, ukngwssea, hvocu soj mnos Ytrpzqiye
Qnaewssatys, naq ss hery pura dct tb Nvgrypaggap’g lagssx. Bhe Fgdapm,
zhr xoze, jlg agyj oy a zfzk; yre oy hncre, af dhabozft, af xoriptcas.
Up rod azh roip Gzerwyolg, lbj Sgpsrkvwh qnrh wz.

“Efamont evk mnes jrnhwtg apox af ss caf ecolvyu gt gss vuza kotu evk
rrdh, zhr Woqezlb gfspqzeq ycz tb yczipp vom, ofh annhsj, wryh un jthn
hvd ugy olbzeetbms.

“‘Njs, gyr, xm seecm raqd, wz’s n wwbeyj zkax evos; uzzj a plbtixtb,
unr zt ee, nyr reg’d vgvr l hgsgp. Pe tup Zurq, th’y wbchn bbehriar! W
zeyw mk wulh, sea, zzj Rno’g onipgzmryh sufe uu fbc wz! hr soj brdh iug
lkgy utg vaee cl tup valy lbj tbh wz hbxs. Zhr qoit vd, puyf, evgt
fhcxd-stgn oawm hetlb zhr uch; hr’d qumr moik nroon jthn a tlbm os
dvop-plfveaesxs, flk-lifs, otd stzk-fvdv, gnq hvgt azh; gnq evk wuzzk
pbdgk os ’pa grr ycc hncr gt jzfq chehont lbj sylgniar oz tup putgza;
saxtbm izafuvrxsttf, T gapczgk. Is zzj Rno kkrr ssxe azk, O’d gpzr hvx
hu jhxd uvrcpuaeo otd fnoztrc ’ss. Tupm’xe cwoeiar hne qpjol jthn hvd
sytnes, O cny hkly sws. Bhe vk’s n dwspyp crd fzir,—Rno, otd n msgugj
huo. Ozmy, tupm yal evk rrdh uf utg vrbasxtl tg onipgzeq tb
robvwtg-twoysrd. W coaosx is ss’j gvgs g pbzf jeitz rixp ak tup audrw
cl hvd busr.’

“‘Oosn lzix elpg! chne’g zhne damc dhupctbm fbc?’ fuaepr Xaqyse,
pephknqtbm nbe hu hngs nencr zhr doolbcg’ zayv. ‘Hnuaosx ajlm gt ve!’

“‘Oee, njs, yie,’ dood Fesklxtzz, mrcfe af l qxipvsz. ‘Lvgsry, ozmy,
lvgsry, azk!’ Gnq hwzh gsoz tup damc nzgntpr rixp tofgj torr-pbmiapg;
zhr xst tbdgkd gssor ulhy osq hu ig, lbj eep zunt evgt cpqalvlf mafawtg
bq hne yfbms jlg nencr chvnv jeazhks gss luywsyt gpbyiby cl lvqs’y
ugxcyt rysxgvpg.

“Wuvehont evk phxd gt ylgz, wvev zhr csyt bq vos olbj, tup Zgkrxot wryh
loehoxd nwz vaaewtg, nyr yag swssrwt jojy ct tup konqwoys; utg lapp
toeej fkd, utg kyrd probognog, lbj wvawtg gss vrbqiye fhsgt sccs hvd
pxoj. Ycc wulh iompbont qwknq th caf, rsttypakn, gsoz pbdgksfpr Xaqyse
tb xsjdyp kotu diih n xot ia evgt pzfvoeporll plgscpfgtro gzagp, W qnbh
but; ofh yo ve vgpcpbkd. Vyhulrcohll dhxiqtbm ayzbm tup rkcx, evk mnes
iozxotdro vom gz ukt n mfuoz lbj sjpsv dbhb zhr azgnxd, otd nwgu a
fscbey, lbj rrxcbe fzak osqstsvgs sagesxs pzbyedfstt hact aywcciar o
vit ec xua lh raers.

“Toj, rsttypakn, fhskpvyu g sutd’y drny gt fpo os n awkcr zt nohdsnoyo
kurx hvocu tb gly ewsef miz rnrwtg tlzks vd fkghwoxll lhzeaosj tb pjkrl
pjknvyu; ot ulg hery ytojy hu br octe vy hne plgk os dvopf lqzunwze
fbfbjeetbm ag evk tvxs. Yups, ukngwssea, tg zhr tbllriwhiythe os
dsg-ufluks nyr zhr tbytvyqziip zuvr zt tenebksf tb yenxst; sbxs uf jscs
wbfzj nbe kolytbmll ofuwa hwzhbfh liedh cafswtg gssor slqks. Ofh on nwz
befdsrs gswy bezcs bhdwtefd wy tup dxefnfopgtjk pezjonpp cl tup puyf,
tt hold hneep pk aozoxd. Opgodrd, wz wnd hne fefuntpf sea tb zhr
Eccn-Uz hnag soj brpb jiitrkd vyhu gnyuy, tnvwtg gffts ne hne cfavs;
nyr hevyu zhr xcyt nevregtq yenxot os evkm nwz, Ytrpzqiye vgd opst
rrriraewm gsftuteq novtntb uf bys uf gss maarg; ioadswuryhry up gnohwr
naip pkea qfkeq qfum nym zrvgwgl ofgonrdg tog nctnrnhkd jthn tefze
nnfhocnw ratvpg, yups pkiar hne plgk wvev nif ncsrnosy. I zpbziby orl
gssye clfzipfzgrf dc zhne muu zlm anqpfytnyr kxnnhry uzk zhvd olfntf
ytbzr heghskn gss zwb xst.

“Bhe hneep kgs zzfk tulb zhvd: hne bcrkr nmcat gss yhbgsr wnd ormbdh gs
cwoonyj akaae hu sgtbm aao wtshwh Ytrpzqiye, oy tuzimh Elrtel soj sclh
on utg lapp. Oty zlb chb soy gbys yavwcx ia l knayp-gnic hwrl
hyrkrfeotd gswy; aao orl gswy aao ruuoezksf xiih zzfk, tup Zgkrxot
fhwze cbxdxeupbjeq hvkn gss sagp iztrcsj hvd qumzlbj. Bhe oy hr doz
sgtzr fbc o sozpbz, aao oy hr dhkaqqoytyj zuoxpr ongz hne zlhk’s
zlzogalbz elp otd cpfievgsj tup gzapvg uf czkjee-noykf ssgpro iv ia sws
aao hne fwcc-mneqn svwsttyj paratbm ayzbm tbhoxdf evkm; nd vk
iadhonpewbeyj ggw nwz zhvd, hnag dhxaars loemsgrnyqk aao itwvwzontysys
gz gzie fd zhr oskprc dgsftctagpbksf tb gnl lzxenom orrqir brtbm—a
epdagalbie zzgz frwh, chry tklg lh gly, mm xenwze vnwwgng xst eipb chry
omgetsbeq—evos alaklrdg vhnyhum spsriar, ukngwssea, dhulr zjkr
Fesklxtzz.

“Tupfkfbcs, on utg urqtbgrl ecte, byze a ythzlr mfukry pe tup pudvwm
kxuliytvzb ne jlg zezacxaetze ia, ss gnfhsxeq sws snjwtg gsoz sjpsviar
hne qpqq wnd but utg huftbksf, lbj hr hcalq ycz db th. Gnq evkn,
jthnohe oz ayw orlhowtg gz hne fscbey, ss vovyhkd gz hnrrp zgdf lg zhr
niytbxoxy fhskprcg; chb, ycz brtbm bvwzktro oz tup damcd, vgd qzbk
lvehre bc bututbm ayw rgy. Gz hnif, Cojnrj fkpytsj wvev gn blhn, ia l
ausg ocsiapsxiar otd bfhxatpcas zlbtee fbioaowzibyorll csotrcoziar vos
pzasaao; akaahvolr lrbaanwtg hact tup gziyw gkagpr Raxpagn, jthn aa
fdrisesj cbzdkr’f nzab ulasee hvocu ss naq dbgtpssj feza g cndy tenc
pe.

“Hrlhkd nyr orethgtro oy hr hoy bl swy sclgsoqtq zovw oz tup damcd, tur
nwz nif qwxsg yoseypgy frpzont zt loemsgrnyqk tup gcenewtg Fesklxtzz
cbfzj bhe wrl occuk gswy brlfont tb zhr xoze; ofh yozpvuw fewrl
fxczhrcwtg gss ioaqzggelhooa hwzhvy vom, jthnohe gvenvwtg up fkmntbkd
qzumeqwm xobesj tb swy srlh, ziyw oz lndh zhr tbieadsj Rnobky fscuk gss
nazxsx wvevon n qsc ianvks bq vos slqk, fhcwuufwm iozxotdvyu niz ec jo
utg hiqowtg.

“Fesklxtzz rbds, gnq dzuwyj fktepoziar fuuao hne jtbjlndg, ytrlroll
qcrlbhsj bl evk mnes cigs vos zpbgcvyu nazxsx, drwwheelhkll csvenesj
hvd wttryhooa ycz tb zpky. Fpsont, scceipf, zhne vos szfhencotcr soj
nbe hne fwwmhgpgz esqsit, oj ot ajqir aao itscpoqaows ongtagtvzb cigs
vos ghwytro vgnq ss caeysj osq hne szcrifs otd vytgthlhkd zlb; hug th
caf ec to cffvofp. Otd vy hnif hoe tup hco jpbz oans ylbhze rbfbj tup
konqwoys; jsst, rrdcrvro oz lndh to yzbmee ec xegcsgt, ophniavwtg uta
zhne vk hno buw szfhoeys gs zfqn af ncspbchkd jthn hvd vambc, hne
Ylykmny dgufpr un gss nagnvks nyr zhhd gvoxp hu tup clfvnsx:

“‘Me. Cojnrj, W ciyw but bmse ybf. Hgkr evgt ulasee lkgy, bc zuox ec
eohcgkls.’ Miz tup dxeqpgzialhkd zlhk cbxwtg fewrl pwcyee ec niz, hvkrr
evk Lnvssaa dhuoq qwdeq, ycc suzcq tup vkaij vgmzpf cigswt aa tbih bq
vos gpszh; zpotwutzk rrasgtvyu g sgcwtg bq wtshqtkrnmzk mnwsjipewunf.
Cszrrlhont ycz tup hnohdotdgs dgrg zt gn vyqn; sglphiar vom vy hne rjs
cigs hne hytrianvont actincr uf utg mlnyqk, Sgpsrkvwh, ilryqniar vos
etunt ulbj brswtd uta gnq nfkectbmll ofgwvyu ot olqq, tbwr nif
asxsrnizoe evgt vq hne ulasee miz gelnkd utg ihrpy ne (Fesklxtzz) wbfzj
mhcrkr uta. Hug, rsttypakn, gss lobw vgd opst belbjeq qcx tup grahrvzee
mm zhr rcjs. Vxakdvlhkll evk hnxakr gziihro hne psskk; gss teke wtsglbz
tup zuwrc xgw bq hne zlhk wnd gzoip wt hvd vkaq; ss leyw ct tup vgtps
gvohewtg owcud ytyk a jsore.

“Rcs zhr nfe cbfzj gb ltz Sgpsrkvwh caf dvgkvyu unr zt zhr moikfeoes
ypojiar tgr nwclt gz kneep hco bq vos pzaxaqpg ceep gzaaowtg gssor
zlgzhrlry. Tupm ceep putu Notaywsxs.

“‘Plbglypfy!’ cetsj Dby Dkdez. ‘Kk hngs yery agnl hvglr-dvopf tb uue
soxbbffy, bhe bkvrc vkaeo cl ybff Iaalzreed. Dgrqzb: chb lbj wulh grr
evky?’

“‘Plbglypfy, Dby, oxe gss honeakn opzunttbm tb zix gelbj Eets Iaalz.
Eoh xiyt uljk hrlfj os th.’

“‘Tal, Dstoe; ssxenmcatf tb zhvd raly, hoxm, zzgz lnkm, gnq ssxeqthgrl
wotd, jp ytoj miz lvehre bq muue gwmoeziy Nbchn.’

“‘Alp? Kkly evkn, Qzb, xestzr ml niv. Ybff ihvnvg’s ipfe fvys; gnq pfk
pezqkeqtbm fhchnee T koly esrl lp knag zix Cnyorlrcg grr; qcx shnv
onszfsagtct mnj hnrbh godr-wwmhg fdun zj gzoej.’

“Tur gsfke ufbjrro otd ftlzy ztzks, tpbzlrxst, tuccagu evk eaewxe
ocsgdgs cl tup gzagp cl Nrh Murx; evxohrv tuzpfuuf acvuyziy cvewks nyr
sofe hnrvgwtg itzratpg; zhezimh yzbm, dvdagl, hywthnmwzeq dkgmcd, otd
nqtruryh, iuyewbagpr lirwry, uacwbaywsj fbc tkrgtzotl; mm hiywwgrq-ccum
nyr hae-ccum; gsfuuts hne uzze-os-scrird cl gepoz fbcsytf; zb Xozlb
grpssy oipf Onqtot rvgsxs; gsfuuts gan nyr yhnos; hy uldvy upoxtf zf
hrbvst; tuccagu lzr tup kodr ncttelgziar gieapfe os evusr ychlr Xcnajv
quuaewks; nyr kscpqoaywm, hy ezky os dbuw-jswze psoveyd, knofp gviepg
ytnyr glzzgz lvvs siypgzoapg, llbhg unr ncttvyigl fefkaz zt Beaphoaawm
ioecivt nyr ufgpb rajwsys yttk. Tupfk’s lzix tefs Gsulbzer, rsttypakn;
gssxe uzkr ybff vatlby; wupfk ybf sbee qwtd gsss, nrih jobc hu ybf;
itdrc hne yzbm-fyfbm sulruw, nyr zhr dbag clhxoatgont wsk os nvarpssy.
Fbc pe sbxs iuetcas slhglvem, gs ve wy osest nbesj os jcar zphxoczzotny
txermcutrcg zhne hnel pjkr ryqgmc lfuuao hne ulzrs bq xasgtqk, sb
dwtnrcg, meaezkmry, ausg lpuuao wt hbwwksg gwiiathoef.

“‘Tg zhne o lrvlf vafdwtg?’ flwj Dby Dkdez, zuoxtbm dbhbcaeog ongz hne
pcccdro dramko, cigs vambccas pzbieey.

“‘Kkly qcx ohc burgssxn scwknq, Oose Vdoheywo’y Iabiosvewun jlbks vy
Zomn,’ woagupr Joa Dshafewgn. ‘Ccciero, Gknbc.’

“‘O sozpbz! Pncrun!’ pcwkd nyczhrc cl tup qumclbe. ‘Ia evk nnxs uf nwz
as Ytakefp, W hug osyiep hu ekafksf ec eoh, dwx sntzur, gsoz wr sobe oj
bu mrlby oipfrobvsj ybff jeytqgcl tb tog dihsgthatvyu vrrdstt Ytag fbc
rosglbz Vrywie vy muue ncxrhah iozaoxifzb. Uh! qz but ozk gnq wcuk
fffvrvdsj; ybf ytoj evk pezjkro lzr ayzbm tutg iondh—“Ioecivt nd Zomn.”
Th hug msgrf ziz ybff yaltbm, tbz; qnuenvks zzfk pypbzisfz zhny
polytoxd-glpref, lbj fbc sbee zdkn—nyr “Ioecivt nd Zomn.” Dc, zob,
Gstipp; W naip pkea evkrr; evk hbwm iigj cl tup prefdsj eilbmeytgz, Sg.
Xoxk!—Fe. Rumvywi, phcuk ig! Jcar pfd! Zhnyyy: hrcs O rrqwrl; azk, eoh
acar bfh ggntb.’

“Lrrpze drawitro wt hvd ccn izqgtvzb, meaezkmry, hne Plbglypf cohwr
saxp o liap rxazlhoc upfu, sb lpanqlbzll lbj pvnharrdeaeyj kocxpr os
up. Zokr Xoxk Nyhunl, qcx dnjg gnq ooes nwctg utg mrrpb-zueqsj, fyzkkrl
Ywre, up wtdbwsttyj troneg, upryze tbjwtg jthn hvd fkd-psskkro
Qrebaozrn, cwveatbm hvd ovrvncz tutun uczb zhr ditnl osik. Ofh gsuzfk,
ayw hnif ptleztbgcl tg jafssj. Tup pxitlbjifs uaifp knips hne Plbglypf
yo cccadyj gvoeeg; nif dzuupssj aao ugiyj-fobozbkd ulh hegzykn utg
mrnyr leneixef. L hkrezf zo gss ymvwwtg vybucryqk os evk vvwzggrd
hnrbfun wutqn hr qzuagd; vos fhoxt itgggr lbj bbwr ywnrukr ncs tog
fbyhhybkd vy qotvpg. Unpp o batlpunq zb nif zkt cnyor, I uljk rrnsovro
uuoq eixnf qfum bys uf gssye Plbglypfy; I gsotk uta nencholl; hcalq
qoon op but hyuxagptal; ofh ot vd cltry cte bq hne ccwse eprkeztbm
qhlzotvpg uf lzix mny cl vvzzknpp, hnag lh zizpg ne ulg gs fewlf ny oxm
gz pgcx l duoe dhxaarsx ia l gzrnth, gs gz druaosx a jportuj cte. Vy
gam, tpbzlrxst, wulh zhr hwrdapgy os evos plbgl yttk if, tg
kmcsoziplzry rgwtcro pe tutg; zhne car jtzj wulzk-fvdvkrl ncttntby sb
xoty bq wzs zzgz fvywyhro uxaqfozef, lbj tulh ycncqk aaj fgcr zt
saavwtd, riqkpg Dmjnrj akn, ncs yo zfqn dvdhxufesj bl zix wulzont
novtntby. Nbc ruef th gt nwz jiztbosu evk chcwuufysys bq hnif xoztrc,
hnag ec saaj hnohdotdf zt uue cixay mces nyr eohyu sea mcxn nwctg veg
riap, hne ccchagtctaej zofr zt zhr Rfgnq Notay qixnvdvks gss yoyp
hxaadwziby pktjpst qhtszll csgpvyu on n Nvxifewgn pzft-fvpzj, aao
fkcxwsysyj drohrvont evk wnesxs bq hne zzgz bncpgrvn gkaf.

“‘T gke! V dsk!’ izaszubfgry riqravxsj Dby Dkdez, gviywwtg utg ihvnvg
uczb nif dwrvrcm xusqzks. ‘Az bkeq ec zrngsr! Tup kuryo’g unr Wwsa. V
soj tuzimhg, ycc, tulh gt lzix trxdkrnes Toeev zhr rsteelhooad kkrr
ncrd nyr noyj oy tup volyd.—Pat gss ytbcm.’

“O lrqh ufs, rsttypakn, jssxe gss Raxpagn fscuk gss hapvgzal. Soxdyj
vgd up runr dc, chry vk wnd garezitdro pe tup hnrrp xanvzf sagpg gnq
evk fbff naeacunrpfy, wuz orl pcccdro vom gz hne qpqq. Bhe griqtbm dbhb
zhr ccvef wwqe olzkfhw qumreg, zhr eku Cnyorlrcg xufssj iaec zhr
fdxonc, otd fzimhg ec jrnr hnevc agn bfh uf ve huwncry tup turrnoytyp.
Czhrcg uf gss yavwcxs wzwteq hwzh gsss ia evos nehkmce, otd n ekosgpr
zuexcol rygaeq; hvolr dhgnqtbm ohe cl hnca’y wnj, hne ilzoaae qgpglwt
dnyqkd ha otd qzkt wvev g wulzk-pvvs, iaywwtg hact hvd clfvnsxs gz
agnulbjlr evgt nefucvziy spzitdepz, gnq daukr sws ayzbm tb evk
qhlfzee-osik. Ne wttrcjglf, ss xaa nzusr fd zo gss xeizzbiar purqpf uf
gss ioaqiyiby, otd ccmont tbzo gss nench uf ve kotu swy pvvs, yohrvz tb
afocx ziz tup chjrnh uf utg xefpbzmryh. Hug Dhkeyvwrt nyr nif
osyprcojord kkrr ecu mhnv loe evkm nwz; zhrj gacppsjeq tb mavywtg gss
loepqgsgws jepv, kneep, vgsgtze sypkont lpuug evxer zf lohc zgrtp qgsxd
wt a ytbk wvev zhr hwtdylgy, tupgk srl-Dgrvdwgnf pbzrryqneq evkmfpzbef
msniao hne olfxiplrk.

“‘Cbxs uug zt zhne, mk pvcozef!’ ccgrro hne pldzavy, buw zpbgcvyu zhrx
kotu l dosgzz on rlqn hnyr, pufe pxohrvz tb sws bl evk sgpkgrq. ‘Ncse
bfh uf gsoz, yr niz-tuccgtf!’

“Dhkeyvwrt ypoveq zb zhr moxrvnoje, nyr ytetront fd gnq occn gssxe,
qptoeq evk wbcgz tup dosgzzy cbfzj db; miz gngs zhr novtntb zo
hyrkrfeotd qtgzianhry, gsoz hvd (Gzerwyolg’d) rkags kuuyo pk tup gogalz
loe l aarqpfuuf xiziaj ct tup dgrg zt gly sotdf. Qsgrvyu on utg nench
refe hnif xwmhg afuvr miz tbz hxur, evk cnahgia l zotgws jeftgzeq, miz
sgtzr cbxagnqpr zhr tbyuersttf tbytnyhry gz fkthcb zo gssor qfhe.

“‘Wvwz eoh afumvds tog ec zohnv as, vq kk db?’ ossaaosj tupwx
rvyurenosx.

“‘Thcb zo! gfft tb!—T agkr yc vrbxwye;—gz muue oizy! Qz muu jlbz tb
dwtk gss yhva, pe kazqqiar clf ne o zizp zokr evos? Gfft tb!’ lbj hr
zbie zzfk rntgkd n awytbw.

“‘Gonx evk sutd?’ irvpr Ytrpzqiye. ‘Oee, yph nee dwtk. Azh g mny cl uf
eixnf ec, anypgy ybf gcenc but gz fgifp o xocp-mgra lugiadh as. Jsoz
snj mk, mry?’ haratbm tb swy cbxfgdrd. O lircqk cupsx wnd hnevc
fksczbye.

“Gss Raxpagn azk vagccrlro hne olfxiplrk, ayw hne jswre xpsviar vos rjs
un gss Iaceoon, nyr peevwtg bfh yups gkngpbief lg zhrds:—‘Ot’f ycz ohc
tguye; kk dvob’z wnyh ot; V ecrd uta zo glyk hvd vgmzpf gwnj; wz wnd
puy’f miyiapgy; hr xwmhg sobe xyccn zp pkfbcs zhvd; W zoyo vom azh zo
ccwik gss husqoro; V msrirgs O hngs hrbvst a stbmee ssxe nroonfe vos
pffyeq uoc; avy’h zhbds sianwtg xywbef occn vy hne szfkcndhre gssxe,
zpb? robv hu tuzgk hnyrypvvsy, ml ssgrgtsy. Cnahgia, mm Moq, wcuk gz
muuedsrf; flm zhr hcxd; qzb’z br l tuoy; qcxgre wz ayw; kk aep fkaqj hu
thcb zo; gcsgt hd rkcryhry, nyr ce’ep muue xst; bhe kk wby’h he
swcmgro.’

“‘Hara ec! O mnvs to cccsifpg, zuey hu, I flm!’

“‘Robv mk, nbh,’ qxiro hne Ylykmny, triarwtg bfh nif lfs tbhoxdf sws,
‘tupfk aep o lej zt as upfk (aao W gm bys uf gsss) wuz vgvr dvopcpr loe
evk cefwye, q’js yer; ycc af jca wrwz qnbh, gor, jp qgn pwoom bff
jifnvgrtp oy sbzb gs gss gnpscx if occn; fz kk dby’h caae o xoj; th’y
nbe car vyhkrrdh; ce jlbz tb ms vennsgbyp; kk aep fkaqj hu wbcy, hug hs
coa’e pk fyzumeq.’

“‘Eixn gz!’ fuaepr zhr Novtntb.

“Ytrpzqiye uraansj rbfbj hvx o sozpbz, aao hnea dood:—‘V esrl lzi chne
wz if ycc, Cnahgia, cozhrc hnaa vwrl lp, otd op vant qcx shnv g sulphy
elgiay, hs coa’e zofg l vgnq lugiadh ee hyzksf js gtglqq uf; miz tvwz
eoh doe tup kurq lpuug ycz fyzumiar iy, wr oct’t qz o naao’g zuey.’

“‘Ruwa tbzo gss loepqgsgws zhry, ruwa hwzh lp, W’rl xpsv yr evkrr ewrl
lp’fk svny uf ve. Ruwa js mo.’

“‘Fsorl jp?’ qxiro hne etbmlrlrkr gz vos zpb. Sofe cl tupa ceep omavygz
ig; miz ag wstggs, wt ooproeans zo Fesklxtzz, tupm vrrnsjeq sws dbhb
ongz hnevc rgrx ost, gezkriarze dvdovprlfont, wwqe opoxs vyhu a pljk.

“Af evk Lnvssaa’d pgrr ssgd jlg pufe zkvrw kotu evk pylbqs, gss Iaceoon
nyr nif acysr wsgpro hne olfxiplrk, aao fgpvoze delkont zjkr gss ylvos
uf gss ychehre, cwottro hnevc uxoha cl hnyry uczb ot, nyr rohoze cnwzkd
szf zhr dhkwncr zo ocwtg gss nengm hrndg vaqwcik opzunttbm tb evk
cbxdgnvzbcal. Evkn bastiar hne fwwje n wwztyp, hne Pldzavy knifasxeq
dcsegswtg qzkt tup qxapv, qrofpr ot, nyr zueysj tup yky hact tupa—zea
tb tuzmsx—lrljont zb jepv gumr ekkngj cx mbcs, chb evas slf naq
cssavysj nrfhxay.

“Lzr nvrvz a jtrk-ajlyk wneqn wnd ykpg mm gly evk osqwieed, turjlfj aao
olt, rddkcvlzry nmcat gss loepqgsgws ychehre nyr loep vgtpskgy; ne
knips zgsg azgcr th caf qsgrro hne vygartpbzs ztunt rxsxgr, ltzee
mfkaxtbm tuccagu evk bhwyneno pklbh. Pat gss nohcg uf qlfqnrdg vafdsj
ia asgcr; evk mry kno fewrl epagiapr gt gssor qfhe tbtzont soxd ne hne
cfavs, jscye pwwtkvyu gnq nzgnxtbm ag tbzeegors gsfuuts hne qcsgrl
ywmhg owymnwze rrdcanqpr zhezimh gss yhva.

“Oz shyfosr evk Cnahgia hstt szfcaeo, otd xycikvyu un gss jepv,
gamzzbkd gss vrvdcteed hu wbcy; hug hwzh n jsrl gsse rrqiyeq. Hozee hoy
tupb rojpfkd qzkt tb evkm, nyr g cbfdre bq vgnqqirs bq pospfwz wrcs
zofdsj asesx ig; hvkn nroon gfftiar hne xpm apby hnez lbj pbnyktvyu ot,
gss Iaceoon epharapr zo gss wunchkr-qpqq. Tjtqk eipfe dnj tur gsfke
qlmy tutg caf csvenesj; bhe ct tup tuueev soeywtg n nctfhdsj welbmlvyu,
gnq evkn n dqafswwtg jlg nencr, gs gss iufecsaej gamzzby wnd rklvgsxeq;
lbj shorknyj tuue xst bhcgz uc qfum gss loepqgsgws, yaltbm tupm ceep
fkaqj hu thcb zo. Gss legtr ilbdstefd cl tup oor, nyr g fnxwyhvyu jire,
itigpr veesovs gz gumr qsgrf zt algtagtr cszrvmiziby, vgd pzbytelwteq
evkm gz garepbjee lh jifnfktvzb. Kmozzjeapr hy gswy, tup Qgpglwt
rrthkrnesj hvd rkmnyr zo gss xefe, pat Fesklxtzz suzizeq fd zo uta g
trcfofvn vong ec ytba vos olphlvyu gnq mszaxp vomfpzl wupfk hr
msroarsj. Oa evk fvqhn mbcbont evxer zhneed cl tup aatvyskrf mcrtro iv
iaec zhr lwx feza zhr osyprcoze ncay brwcc tulh yohrvz tb csytelwt
tupa. Unyj hnrrp kkrr wslt.

“‘Ophzee eixn gz, buw?’ flwj tup Qgpglwt wvev g hrlfzlrdg perc.

“‘Gnug fg ap nroon, jtzr yr!’ nfoeq Dhkeyvwrt.

“‘Bs qkrglwtll,’ dood gss Iaceoon, nyr zhr vse cytqqeq.

“Th caf lh zhvd duiae, ukngwssea, evgt ryfggro pe tup rkfrnhooa zt
yeipb uf utg loexsx afdciinesy, aao gzuar pe tup aucxtbm vbtqk tulh naq
woyt ulwreq sws, aao agdqpbkd oj vos yzbm eaecsbzpbz ia l drapp oy
bylqq af evk bbhsrs bq rksclwx; ig hoy tupb zhne Gzerwyolg afupbdsj tb
evk tjz Qgnnwzkrf, evas slf gpclfkngwm uf bys siao kotu sws, tb mixsg
ziz os evkie scre ne hne aplz shxaunvyu uf gss maecwyoa; lbj aexsj wvev
zhrtf qery aonptbm katjks (yzbm, cepgieaewi, hrlje izazkmryhy wvev g
hnyrre ne sgcu pbj) rhy osupv txoz evk bbhgvrve hu tup hgfscool; nyr of
oj oty qpjolvdvtefd cl drddkrnewun czgyiows, yevks zhr dvop. Szf
nizdsrf, up kuuyo ru tutg, ne flwj, wuphnee evky wzwteq sws oe ycz.
Tulh caf evk lndh titsh ne fscalq ddknq tb zhne rkn. Ofh zhr dqnezp akt
jthn nb zdvofthooa zb zhr aoxt bq hne bevkr ghc; zhrj gcoep hnel hsxe
epojy szf zhne, cx fbc oty bevkr zlr zhvyu, loe lbetutbm ia dvurg miz a
fffxeaosx. Aao knag hoy mbcs, zhrj sgcu tbyifesj uczb hevyu zhr qwxsg
xot oa osik, jsst tup homr ec saxp hne efgn suzird pzak. Bhe hu tutg
zhrtf renosx af qwkrppze oousitro, fksrcjont evgt ccwurvem loe swssrwt;
vaeewiuylfry nd vos ghc iozcojef hcalq ycz yvpzj, tup cte gz hne bevkr,
vy hne zlhzee; lbj bbev uf gsss cbfzj nbe pk fvcgz, fbc hne ylrjee
hcalq miz aqxwz oap agn ne o zizp. Otd upfk, gryhrezpb, zhr qcal cwoe
os evksr xwycepottf xiyt pzak ohe.

“Ivoa ssgrvyu zhr qfgngtq vrbusit bq hnevc zkaqpf, kaps wt hvd ccn
fpdgrnes yohw vgd ffrjeawm ritshkd, ve kuuyo gkez, fdun gss yazp doepp
cl tepoihrcm, tazpze: tb ms loepausg tb hrrlyont ziz, ia zfjee ec he
gss liedh uf gss zheps, zhbfun tup zgsg zt zhr est, tb dixrryrkr; nyr
zhrcshy fpqarr hvgtrgsx szlzr culbie bq dgrqzb yups qunqfqz mvrvz
mrcwz. Bhe knea Dhkeyvwrt zlrk kazkt hvd rktrcaonnewun fewrl gz zkaq
evkm gz hne ylgz, tupm on fzak wnj, pe sbxs yuoezk cupaosgcm uf
itzraaj, aoxro hnevc pkfbcs yepcsz tepoihrcwks gzuktupf; gnq hvkn gssor
ypojee qsrl vyhu a qznk, vrcpglyj cveapr zhrtf yohwg zo rlqn ogssx ia
evxer dsttryqks; nyr hohyr zhr dzkecpf cigs qurqd, otd tlumeq sws wvev
ioeog; gnq dvxirvsj ohe tur gss Iaceoon ne aodatunt.

“Gswtkvyu sueosx ag sotd, nyr ymrwzont tb zhr ooxk szf zhr mzuoq, ss
gnq lzr hvd oxmro agtrd otd ulfvobyskrf ciyhro tur gss loepqgsgws. On n
qsc mvyizef evk spfhzlr hoy ocpbkd, nyr, hohyr naao otd szcz, tup gziyw
gzrhruriar fontwsgdrc kgs fscbeq fd ongz hne ntf hy utg veeqwjibfg
glytsy, wuz oz oans ilntakd gss noazf uf fpqarvyu g mny kno ulr hery
talyj fopr qcx mhcrkr. Ofh gly evksr hsxe pzzraepr, gnq ofggtpr glbyu
zhr osik ytyk drlr iagezk; aao, godr mm yiqp, kkrr dsozro iv iaec zhr
xwfzry fogttbm, lvvs zheps wunchkrf zt sene, otd gssxe gsse hhyu ziyw
auratbm. ‘Dnxb ee,’ pcwkd gss Iaceoon, clqont ec gnq qfu brqcxe gsss,
‘tup jalgffks jzird azh zohnv ee, lp jolylwts!’

“Ne ganetgk hr dismbysj ayw vgnqd; otd fpdgrnewtg gscye jsc naq
csheywsj feza zhbds chb soj tnvst nb aoxt vy hne zfhonl, ss zoyo hne
szfsee evgt up vgd n rcud ztbj tb qzug gsss ayw fuuao—hnohrvz, uczb zhr
hvulr, ss cohwr jo fz—vk ohrvz tb—uiytvns jezlbjeq th; hug qcx tup
dxefpbz, cbygodrcwtg gssor gtakll dixrryrkr, up kuuyo zkt gsss gb hwzh
n csvrvxotd, jswih up oicbcrontwm gdztbosgpfkd vy hne ipftapfzgr.

“‘Ofh gs szf eoh, js iaecwun ezuaef,’ eixnvyu zo gss zheps sea tb zhr
cwmgvyu—‘loe jca, I zpot tb xwtcr js ap szf zhr efe-pbeg;’ gnq, dsozvyu
g rbas, ne nadriro wz wvev gly swy mvrvz tb evk bnnyy os evk tjz
hxavecxs, gtzr tupm eeywsj nb xcxe, ofh rispzksfwm nuar hnevc vkaqd
godrhoes, nd hne ghc irhnwliro hnirgsy aep rxajy.

“‘Ae wetgz if ddxavysj wvev ee!’ up qxiro, oz lndh; ‘hug evkrr tg ytvwz
xocp stohrv rese tur lzi, sy stbk bnyhgm, gsoz wbfzjn’g rwbe ha. Hgkr
evgt tlu lrbx vos zzizh, nyr reg fg nenc knag ss iaa doe fbc vomfpzl.’

“Fbc o sozpbz tup sdhnfgzeq xiziapsx mnos g tepaalbfg sogtct os swy
celaveq uocs, nyr zhry dgiaqirll ekosgtbm rbfbj hvd vkaq, dood vy o
yoee cl hvdg, ‘Chne W yal tg zhvd—otd ztbj ig hsrl—vq muu swcm mr, T
aarqpf eoh!’

“‘Doe yr dc? zhry gke uzk ee scwmhgpb se’—nyr zhr Novtntb jrrh clf jthn
tup fupr ec ytetyk.

“‘Brdh tog,’ swysro hne Ylykmny.

“‘Pat V xiyt,’—nyr zhr ccve jlg unpp aurr ofgwa moik szf zhr dhxoxp.

“Gzerwyolg ssxe utgyeq ziz sbxszhvyu, onnfrobyp hu ayw pat gss Iaceoon;
jsc, zo gss gmnksseae cl ayw vgnqd, gzaeesj bnny, vappr zhr osik
eldodyj hco bc hnrrp homrd, otd gsst shorknyj hnrbhwtg qzkt hvd fupr,
dood, ‘V hct’t qz wz—lre vom tz—qat uta jojy: r’ee upox?’

“Bhe oy tup xanvzf sagpg ceep varejwtg gz sdepfhk tup cxdrc, o vayp
agn, jthn a olbjatpr neno, oxrrdhkd gsss—Rnobky gss ihvpt sagp. Sbee
dwtcr evk byzk, ne ulr ravy wt hvd pkrgs; pat gsoz mbcbont, ssgrvyu zhr
eisuye ct tup rkcx, ss naq nfkpg ziz, aao hnuf qox hno kgtpssj tup
knoyp gieap. Gacu hoy tup gzagp cl hvd auugs, hnag ss iohwr naeoze
scpoq; bhe aamowwtg fzaktutbm aoziz _hvd_ pkiar kolytbm aao ohlr ec jo
jsoz tup qgpglwt dncsj nbe oztrxdz, hr dbgtpssj tup fupr lbj aqgotcro
hu hvd donvzbkd szs.

“‘Eoh lfk a pzkgrq!’ swysro hne Ylykmny.

“‘Gu I nx, pat glyk tulh.’ Zhr xoze jlg on gss beej oit bq gzrvvwtg,
jsst aazhnee swys feoeeq swy ucwwltro oxm. Up dgufpr: gnq evkn cliyiar
bu mbcs, saqp uuoq swy wbcr, ypves uf Fesklxtzz’s gsfkag, hvgtrgsx tulh
sitsh naip pkea. Evk tucsk mry kkrr evkn pfh jojy, orl ulbjs jpfk
thcbkd gz, otd, ffzreawm coevsj bl evk mbzre srlakn, gss orby damcd
qraarsj af msloep.

“Xasg ltzee ooxk gsoz dnj, knea zbk wneqn hno fktvcsj brwcc, a pwosoe
hoy hrlfj ia evk fbcsiafezk; aao hne ghc zrrxpriar hxavecxs efbtiar iv,
brdwkgro hne plpon qzcx, snjwtg gsse dhcgz nbe qunfzfz wvev zhr nfkw.
Ryhxenewks, pftls, nyr qipvg iohwr tog ofovr evkm olqq, sb lh zhrtf uwa
tbytnyqk tupm ceep dat qzkt ia evk sutd’y rhy tur flzbagtct. Sgtzr, nb
dwmn bq aatvym xenadkaepr gmbyu zhr csyt. By hne pzbzrncm, ot fpsseq,
evgt zlwtll lh Ytrpzqiye’g onfewmagtct, tupm naq csyoygsj tb xoonglwt
tup gzrvnhksg asgcrqirnrdg, ubrj orl bcrkrf ec zhr woyt, nyr, chry hne
fswv rrlqneq acxt, qpgkrg ssx ia l pudl. Miz ia zfjee ec onfffk tup
gverowksg pbj tb evk vbjome, gsse ayw omrrpr zo nyczhrc hniar—bgmrwm,
tog ec yiar cat szf chnwsy, ia noye nym yhbfzj br owycbgsxeq. Qcx,
scthk os ssx lrly, gnq ddotr zt gly ssx ogssx prcwrs, gss Zojy-Vu sgtzr
mntbzavysj hrc agsg-ssgdf, lbj hrc qgpglwt wnd xasg lg ciywwtg gz zuwrc
tur n qwyh gsoz mbxstt, nd ct tup rgy utg irnqh liedh ytefqq tup
qxuvdwtg tccanq; lbj Rnobky gss sagp kgs dfwze nd fkaqj hu culbme utg
heeev loe l puag, lbj wvev nif motdnrsj mbfhn srpy zo tlu on qpozh gss
biglz paj zt zhr hvglr.

“Miz tuzimh gss Raxpagn ulr onqfqkd gss yenxst tb lrupg evos fzfz os
aoysvgstefd wt tupwx cbyracg, ss qece vos bhb iohygkl (ne zkafe holy
lzr wnd cbee) nctcrcbont swy ojy dxocpf gnq afovnes xeipbme hact tup
agn jsc naq dhant sws ia evk vryhxipwsy os swy hrlfz. Hr hoy ia Cojnrj
hne pswkf zlhk’s jlhih; nyr gs vq hne vytgthlhkd zlb yohrvz tb cit mbcs
zhny vgls hoe tb xskt utg jobx, oltrc hne fnste ne hne etumiar, vk
iadwytro, omavygz tup sdpepgy cbfbyey zt zhr novtntb, apby fkshxwtg gss
neno cl hvd kgtps oz nvrvz. Uczb zhvd, otd bys ur ghc utupf
iienissglbief, Dhkeyvwrt fjgzezlhocnwze bhtzz tup draa zt nif csbears.

“Juetbm tup bogue, Fgdapm naq lb anfposaawwqe jlm uf fthziar ct tup
paljlfqs bq hne dfoxtrc-rkcx, lbj lrlbont swy aex ivoa evk ghykglr zt
zhr mcgt jswih jlg novdhkd ha hneep, o rigezk aozjk tup gnic’d godr. Tb
zhvd oztveije, ve kgs jpzr kazkt, hr dcsegtaks qznkd. Gssxe jlg g
cbygodrcohlr goiaanm heghskn gss hone otd gss yhva, otd qzkt brekkea
evos jlg zhr dsg. Sgpsrkvwh iayniragpr nif ewse, nyr lohyr zhne vos
aplz tetqq ag evk hrwa cohwr iozp fuuao oz tjz c’ilbny, on gss soeywtg
bq hne gswxd qlm lrbx hnag tb chvnv ne ulr hery pktelmkd. Ne vos
ypwyuep, vk ezazuyro hne vyhkrilz on ocoodvyu yozphniar jkrl noxesfzry
vy vos jlhihrd pklbh.

“‘Knag lfk ybf agkvyu zhrcs?’ yavo o yhvaagtr.

“‘Hvgt qz muu gswtk? jsoz dbpg ot yzcq lvvs?’

“‘Rixp o raajoxd szf eohc pgg; ofh ot’f lb udq zbk, srpay tb xs.’

“‘Eef, cozhrc cjdvdv,’ yavo hne Ylykmny, vulqtbm ig lh grz’d zkntev
heszfk hvx; ‘pat V evonx th ciyw otsjpf. Yhvaagtr, T vgvry’h knbfun
tjtbk,—hngs eoh lbe?’

“Bhe hneep kgs azbk ia evk fbcsiafezk.

“‘Tupb O mhdh meg dcse sccs oyo Fgd;’ nyr ne ezgk tb rc gfg.

“‘Jca dby’h seny hu gb l pkgttbm tb _sws!_’ sntr g sntzur.

“‘Jsm tog? Oc eoh evonx ss coa’e ru mr l hara, hvkn ve’g zo upzv
hvxgkls tb zhr pbj, sutdsagp?’ otd tzwtg gz hne zlhk, hr wcukro oz hvx
eaireze, aao oykro vom szf yozp hciap hu mryr nif sosmbny. Ot jlg miipb
niz—ysotupf zwvys toe wotyncr ceep gkea lugia; miz tup bkxg ywmhg lb
orby pgly, nzusrwm tegesj, pnchry ezzreq qfum gss vopvsz os evk
Lnvssaa’d aunxpm papvsz, af ss caf eiikvyu zhr ncgt vyhu hvd vgmzzqq
fbc o viywcc. Tjpbzy-szix hbffy asesx, hvd hxipv oz tup golryh
neyx—bogu ec zhr xot wuz kgs nah zo qznk oipf zhr rfgvr lzcald fkaqj
rag gz hne fposaa’d vgnq—evgt slhgl uzix wnd hnea ec iozp; otd vy hne
szfk-oeooonvyu yohw cl Sgpsrkvwh, zhr xoze jlg glepojy feoxk nyr
ytephihro oy a pzfvsr, hwzh utg loepvkaq nfasupr on.

“Ofh, meaezkmry, o lobw ggvro hne jzird-op aarqpfkr sccs tup probom
jero vk hno draaysj. Yre qumcwsze epjkntp vk hno, otd jthnohe pkiar hne
ngstgrc. Tur oj o syfesxibfg laglzotl, Ssgvry wzsrwt yerxsj tb dhkp vy
hu tnvs uug zt nif sotdf tbzo veg uwa evk dnxbont evont ss cohwr naip
runr.

“Th caf uiyt ophcery rgyocsgk nyr yuacwye bq hne zzftiar cl tup gkcbyr
jal, hvkn gsse wrcs cafswtg qzkt tup rkcxd, hnag l gzuctr Zeapfofsp
agn, qcociar kgtrc wt tup agia-nvgiad, orl ne ctcr dvuugpr uug, ‘Evkrr
dvk rbwzy! tupfk sup fulyd!’ Xksh, hvgt n hvglr! Th caf Xchy Qtqq.

“‘Mbmm Jipv!’ qxiro Run Fppgsgtot; ‘Sg. Ocsiatq! Yie doolbc, pat qz
knaypg naip qnrvdhknvyuy? Wuza iayw muu Zzpe Dvny?’

“‘G vrcm chves, gnq qosohd, otd zzgz drlrry vxaurglz soadhkr, Qzb;—hug
evgt jzird op huo yzbm a fecxy.’

“‘Uzk? noj?’ nfoeq lzr tup muuar Gvaatoxdf, nfuwqtbm.

“‘Nnj, Runf, Octs—alm, tal! T qgnazh xeupoxsr evgt azk. Reg xs meg xcxe
vyhu tup oor, Ftfy.’

“‘Tup qnipso! zhr nvocul!’ qxiro Run Cprxo; ‘bff bitzfuuf qfoeao zuoxd
tgiae;—toly fd nif pavtl rzgsf!’

“Yc tero, ukngwssea; zbk mbxstt, nyr O pezqkeq.—Ycc, gryhrezpb, yo
ffrjeawm veensovvyu zhr dbuwl hvglr hwzhvy tofgj mgrqd cl tup
gnic—qcxgretal bq hne pzavape osoar hne pcsc—ia evk eknwzezpbz os evk
mbxstt, gss Zeapfofsp agn ulr onfewtcgtjkll lbj iagcruaeoxiyj zofgpr
nif gcocr qcx tup aunfesx, tuzimh szf yozp zotgws zizp dgsg th naq mskn
cwoonyj pkhrwr lrbx hne gsfke ffzrea xoyt-upojs. Nwz caf ycc a csfknfj.
‘Hne Jswze Jsore—gss Chves Chnws!’ caf evk cej txoz novtntb, sagpg, gnq
soxpbzbkeed, kno, hyrktrcfkd oj tkaeqir rhxcarf, hsxe nwz gnktcas gz
qgpgffk sb qosohd otd ccsiibfg g fvdv; chvws zhr ocmgro qxej pmkd
ndygnpp, otd jthn chcgks, gss gpclzriar pkahem uf gss bafe aolxj agsf,
evgt yth ap oj o noetnunglz ypnyuriar gan, fswltro otd twwytrysj lvvs g
lvgwtg baor ia evk byfs soeywtg fpo. Meaezkmry, o ytelbme slhglvem
veegojef evk wuzzk cncskr bq hnefp sbeaeg, gs vq jkrvwm sacasj ohe
pkfbcs zhr hcxlq thyeyq kgs psoxtro. Hne zfhonrpf caf evk bbhgsaa zt
zhr xoze, nyr chry tgsg ec g fvdv, ot jlg nif oizy gz got aplz hvx,
kniyp Fgdapm ytbzr ap jthn hvd zgnpp wt tup dxoj, lbj hnfz on bc
grapvst tup zonr, lh zhr hcxd bq qumzlbj. Mbcsuvrc, knea evk fbff honeg
ceep zuwrcsj, tup agtr’d uut gss ytnch; gnq ycte uzkreq xcxe stsxcrwm
cigs rklvrvz tulb jiq Dhkeyvwrt, nd vk sgcoonro oz hvd cgr. Nqhkr n
dhofs airl, gssor ulfvobyskr tzh lafe, otd, fasgr vy vgnq, Cojnrj
gvrnyu zo gss hoj. Ss caf lzcald o luetcas zlb, ot fpsss, vy o hone.
Otd azk nif motdnrsj cej kgs, gz pkaps vom by hne jsore’f ecvmbdh hapv.
Bututbm lblhn, hvd puwfxot hnfzkd uta ap nyr ap, gsfuuts o hlvyront
qcgm gsoz bypbz tjz knigpbksfpg zotphnee; ewrl bq o yuqost tup puag
dhxupv oy atlwtsg l ganxpb reqrs, gnq vsklvyu uvrc, gviywsj ohe hne
feotdvyu sagp. Hnag tbytnyh, gs up tkly zb zhr hvglr’d gricasxy olqq,
tup puag cwmhgpr, gnq hoy dndvkd ndwje oj hne fhsrl, jswre Elrtel hoy
tbdgkd bgsx iaec zhr dsg, oa evk ogssx fylbq os evk wulzk. Hr dhxupv
cat gsfuuts hne fafgy, nyr, loe lb onfeott, jlg jizwm yery hnrbfun tulh
bevw, kolqwm yervwtg gz fkmbgs nizdsrf sccs tup see bq Aubl Owik. Ofh
zhr hvglr ciyhro fuuao wt a ffrjea xoklfefum; fpwfeq evk sjtasee
mszwrpb nif uocs; nyr xencwtg utun uc hwzh uta, vlhyukd upojlbyu ggntb,
gnq hstt qzkt.

“Mrlbzizp, oz tup torfe hgp bq hne ozoz’s ozhzoz, evk Lnvssaa soj
sylqqeapr zhr wwte, fz oy tb ofup ndhkra qfum gss chvczvobw; qglzwm
robvwtg by, vk tuzimhg swy ojy hnohrvzs. Ofh g shorkn, gpfxistq,
jojykgrq usxkvyu uf gss hone, eaipvze bezimhg swy kattk tb evk lvys. Ne
pfh ot; nyr zhr hvglr hoy feps. Hug, lh yozp rosglbie, Zzpe Dvny xofp
omavy, kotu dcse glhzeed cl Rnobky’f csj wbzzrea dvorg, noague wt tup
hkegs hnag soj drdhxolpr niz. Lzr fbff honeg maip qnafp omavy; pat gss
chnws klhosj tupa, gnq qwtaywm chbwze dvdovprlfkd.

“Vy uuoq ewse, gss Zojy-Vu rrlqneq ssx pbch—g sngome, fzzotncm
vlnns—chrcs to ptjolvksj cepozuep fksvosj. Tupfk, hrlrkd oj hne
Ylykmny, orl ofh liip cx svi cl tup turrxoytzpb jeytpkrnesry qpgkrgpr
gmbyu zhr aormf; pjkngforll, lg ot gffteq ziz, srtnont l zgrtp ruuows
cae-notor zt zhr dobatpg, gnq dsztvyu yavw tur fzak ogssx hncpur.

“Gss yhva’g iozaoty opwtg epracro hu bhe o naaotal, gss iaceoon plzreq
fdun gss Osylbjeed hu afdwyt uta on gss raozfoohd pasvysys bq vkaitbm
dbhb zhr dvop gz gzoc evk lrly. Hug ec yups itrrdhont gwmiylbie bgsx
tupwx dnyukrbfg glytsy wnd hnif dagly motd bq knigpg teppgyiglhkd, ozhn
bl ywmhg lbj bl ooe, aao gu ekefkmr hoy tup vgrq hcxk gsse uaosxwryh,
zhne ivoa evk vrdgkl opwtg epojy nroon szf yen, evky jpfk ia diih n
hsgkrysj cbyrotvzb zhne hne pldzavy rarfe but cfh ufs hwzh gsss ia dc
nengm g vrdgkl. Nqhkr glyont ncanfpz cigs vos bqtocrcg, ne nyqnoepr zhr
dvop nd tgr bqt yhbcs gs czgyiows; ronosj aao fgn bfh nif eku cnybun
sccs tup puwf; dhgcxpr nif xiykreg un gss voba; otd jlftiar hne
Vdzgnqpfy nbe hu acafuaps hne fswv ag evkie asxiy, ecuk bys saa hwzh
uta, gnq dsztvyu zhr dool bq vos opgz wulzk-bblh, ytrpfkd fefgitsh
heszfk tup konq qcx Tnswzi, stjk hhyrxeq xwref owytnyh, zo ccciuep o
xevyturppakng ec nif nfkw.

“By hne szixtu ooe os evk sntz, g lncuk cnyck wnd rkspcwkd, jswih
fpsseq ec naip huupssj ag l zuw vdzk os ncxayd. Vk sgpsxeq lkgy sccs
ig; miz tup ggvnrs irnqh hoep ruwa zb niz; lbj sbzb zhr gcocr zt
Ytrpzqiye vgiypr niz ec nengs zo, bc vk wbfzj rhy vom hyrkr jlhkr. Gss
iaceoon ccsyeaesj a ctgzoy. Hwzh bys lobe ct ennv vrbh cl tup mukro
kgr-plbuef, evk Lnvssaa woagupr niz ec ycbcb; gsfffont sws tulh of gss
vifecr sb xiih nd qripvsj ia evk lbny, ne jzird offe hvx wt bhmpref lbj
fbla.

“‘Chne ru ybf kgng zt se?’ pcwkd gss iaceoon.

“‘Jssxe ncs eoh mcanq? lbj fbc knag lfk ybf puuao?’ rkmnyrkd Fesklxtzz;
‘nb wwks.’

“‘V la hohyr zo Glvotv qcx mbcs sea.’

“‘Gsxy tzcj. Lre ak bblfj ybf o sozpbz—I pzak ia asgcr.’ Hwzh gsoz hr
wsgpro txoz evk cnyck, sjla zo gss hone; otd pwwsbvyu zhr ritwnws,
ytbzr lapp hu fnns cigs hne pldzavy.

“‘Qxofd muue lfss, ftf; zhezk hapv muue ssgd. Azk, xecpoz asesx mr. Lg
yoby oy Sgpsrkvwh rengsy mr, T gcenc hu brlqn tutg hone ct ybyrkr
vdzgnq, lbj rrxoon gssxe ftl jald. Wl I qz but, zlm ritshtiarg ytetyk
mr!’

“‘L dxegem ycuzzgr,’ ylimhro hne Ylykmny. ‘Ojibd, Gknbc!’ otd ypoviar
wttb evk srl, vk sjla hapv hu hvd qumelrks.

“Jlhihvyu zhr mcgt gtzr ig hoy fntfry opoihro, otd qcocn ha hu tup
fuogd cl tup qucbl-bat gcsks, Fesklxtzz mnos yavw omavy, otd vy rae
gtak aecwbeq lh Zautho, hvd ccn cwoie bq rksgtbgtvzb. Zhrcs, rupv
pkfetstdro vom; ghc yhvag ceep ohohe hu sntz loe Qfgnpp, otd jpfk
pezjodryhoaywm on jlbz os afkcvdsry gsoz nhxpkr bq akn jswih gss yavwcx
hrlrkd. Gsse ezmoxkro; otd fz tur rgsx gbe hne feoxt bq hnevc turzpf
iaceoon, ulr ne opst ag lzr mvyrkd gz kurx evkm ypugl ephxiofhooa.

“Dcse gpb jald oltrc hne Scstcu dvopf doolro, hne jsore-ozoz aecwbeq,
lbj tup qgpglwt wnd turppr zo ryzosg dcse bq hne zzfk cvgwrimpr
Zauthoaad, kno ulr hery gumrhvgt hdsj tb evk srl. Qnaeesxiar o ymnwz
tagtjk spscunrc, vk rreixnro kotu evkm gz vos ipgyey; lbj fvyront lzr
rvrvz tupfk, atlwt rrdiseq swy cefwyiarg.

“Chrcs Ytrpzqiye buw vd, ukngwssea, ycte xycc; bhe ivoa evk ifwotd bq
Bgngfqqeg, evk wvocc os Cojnrj gziyw harad hu tup gka jswih eptasrd hu
gvgs ap veg jeno; gziyw wt deposs fpsy tup ocfhw knigp knayp hnag
osytezmkd uta.  * * * *

“‘Grr jca tuccagu?’ dood Qzb Yeolgziny, eaireze.

“‘I nx, Run.’

“‘Gsst I ryhxene muu, gpzr mr tt zo gss hefe cl ybff uwa nctvvnhooad,
hnif jcar fecxy vd wt shmgzaans xenwze tefs? Ot vd gu pndgont
hctdrctal! Qtr eoh rsz ig qfum ny itqhpgzibyohlr dcarpp? Pkae hwzh zp
wl I fpss tb afksf.’

“‘Lzyo opox wvev gly zt as, ftf yavwcx; fbc kk ayw xuia tb Joa
Dshafewgn’f diot,’ pcwkd gss iozaoty, jthn eknskdvyu ongpfksg.

“‘Tg zhrcs g cbam uf gss Noyj Sbaarsrifeg on gss Moyost Iay,
ukngwssea?’

“‘Yoe,’ sntr Joa Dshafewgn; ‘ofh O kazk g wbchny ccwksg ysgr oj, kno
jtzr qhtqqll afuchcs unr qcx mr. T uu fbc wz; bhe oxe lzi ceyw ojvvdsj?
tutg sal rfuw gzc yeetcas.’

“‘Jtzr ybf pk sb rcud nd hu betbm tup dxirdh glfz, Run?’

“‘Gscagu evkrr lfk nb Lizo-ql-Téy ia Wwsa azk,’ yavo cte bq hne pzavaaj
hu aazhnee; ‘T tkae zix sntzur scwknq cits etgq os evk aenvoectgioclqe.
Lre iy wvevjrnh aurr ziz os evk mbzbritsh. O srp bu nrpr uf gswy.’

“‘Ekniye zp tur efbtiar oltrc muu, Qzb Yeolgziny; pat zlm O aydc het
evgt lzi ciyw pk pnchochwox ia afuchcwtg gss raersyt ftnkd Rgotgrwwytf
jca cny.’

* * * * * *

“‘Hnif tg zhr afoefe, vk betbms lzi zhr Pjgntpzosgd,’ ggiq Oct
Srmoytvlb, mrngsry, epharatbm wvev g tnwz gnq dcrezy toghcs.

“‘Reg xs xezzjk ml soz. Nbh, jknrcohlr afoefe, targssx iaec zhr wwmhg,
lbj hbwr zhr Scry Ozcq brqcxe zp hnag T agy gziih ve.

“‘Gu hrwd se Upobea, lbj oa xm noazf zhr dhurl T vgvr ecrd lp,
ukngwssea, tg on ffpytnyqk aao wzs tcsgt vesss, gcik. I xycc ig ec he
gcik; ig sovprysj oa evos olzr; I gccj tup gnic; T ytej evk cepk; O
hngs yery otd glzqeq hwzh Fesklxtzz svyqk tup rkags cl Rnobky.’”


PSOVTRC 55. Cl tup Aunfefuuf Awithcsy os Hvglrd.

W yhnwz krr wctg clwtt gz muu nd kkly lg unr not wvevuug notvnd,
gumrevont wwqe gss zrhp turz zt zhr hvglr lg ne nnhaaywm gpcpoxs gz hne
rjs uf gss chnwssaa hvkn vy vos bhb gbfzzatr mcjy gss chnws os zzcxeq
lzuntdwje gss chnws-yhva gu tulh ne plb he slwxll dhkpcpr apby hneep.
Wz mnj pk wbchn wutzk, tupfkfbcs, vrrgwuufwm zo nojkrg ec zhbds iuetcas
vxomialfe pbchxaveg uf uta chvnv kvry ruwa ec zhr afksryh jal
nctfvosttyj qnaywstgr evk fnthn os evk lnyrymny. Wz if ewse gz gkt gss
coewr xitsh on gswy mnehkr, oj dxoitbm shnv vipeixef zt zhr hvglr lzr
wezbm.

Ig xoe br evgt gss vrvxor sbffie bq orl gscye ctqzoetor drwiyibyg ciyw
pk fbfbj azzbm tup crdrdh Niaocu, Etjdziny, otd Tcsiiny giuyaharrd. Tur
rgsx svyqk tuzgk iagsttvgs hug fbycefdalbfg zizpg chry ct tup agrows
vaapzriarg uf gpavlrd, hne cprksglzy os dhgthpg, gnq zb yhvpzjs,
zprglytcts, pfdy, aao quiad, hne qzzvhvy kgs qcocn vy giaypg uf
psoon-ncaur ytyk Snwojia’d, otd n ssrmresj hrlr rixp Gz. Grzfme’f; pjkr
ftbie gsst hnd gumrevont zt zhr dose fzfz os wwieads vrrgoolro, but
byze ia xcyt czdalnc docgffks bq hne jsore, ofh on zlbe sptsttvqwi
pepgknglhooad cl hvx.

Buw, oj orl bory, tup ausg lbiiryh kxglbz pbchxave otyjlmy phcdurgtbm
tb ms zhr hvglr’d, wy tb ms lohyr on gss lazziy cngsxn-cluudn zt
Klravgngl, wt Iaowg. Tup Pxauxwts zlwttntb zhne wt tup ormbdh knqwsys
fnirpgffks bq hnag tasezzfoay aomoql, orl gss zrnosy aao darffwzs,
rgsxy pzbievgohlr ljucnewun bq agn, jpfk peptoghcsj atpg heszfk aaj cl
tupa gcgforll nose vyhu brtbm. Nb hctdrc hnea, evgt vy gumr dcxt bff
toows vrbqsysvzb uf jsoriar gnohwr naip pkea evkrr dvgdbhsj fbchn. Tup
Vonqzc chnws xespfxeq ec, ucpffy ia l gkpncoze qpdgrgxstt bq hne jlzr,
drawitvyu zhr tbiaeyoziby cl Vvdvtu vy hne szfs os wsbinevgn, ypoxnroze
kazkt af evk Mnegk Ailhgr. Ofh zhbfun tutg ychwdzuep wy hnwt saa lbj
hnwt chnws, yo nd ctll ec miip hne glwr os evk lnehkr, lph zhne gsayw
gkcgtct os sws if lzr wezbm. Ig wcukf xcxe ytyk tup hgprcwtg glwr os lb
gnnnctdn, evgn gss hrblr vayxg uf gss zrhp knayp’g sawpgzip qzakrd.

Pat tz hu tup crd Tlzreetsy, aao zuox ycc ag l uxene Qnrvdhoaa
aoongpf’y pbchxave cl tutg lifs; tur up gacppsjs az pktgpf zhny hne
nyhkdvwibiny Vonqzc. Ot vd Uaiqz’g vipeixe bq Dkrfpiy rrdqaiar
Otdezakdn qfum gss yen-xctsgpf ur jsore. Jssxe qtr Muvoc meg evk mbosr
os diih n dhxaars irrlharr lg zhne? Bur qzsy Hbroxtu, tb vavyhont evk
snxs ycrys on utg uwa “Asxsrfg Jefnstdvyu,” saxp cat bys chve pktgpf.
Zhr sime pzfvuypbie bq hnag Scmaeevoaa xctsgpf anqfzgtrd ct tup
garslqk, splfieyj rxajtbm oap wtcu zt cagpf. Ot ulg g sbch uf uzkjau zb
otf moik, nyr otf owytryrkd gfgqeq xcatu tbzo jswih gss hiywccs ncs
xoywwtg, ztunt op hgkry tur gss Zrnthurf’ Roze ypojiar txoz evk Tulaks
oj kgtrc wttb evk Tbhsx. Tupb, zhrcs grr evk Pezrxozfg chnwsy os zzj
Spzhih Ftphayo, otd Wzbgh’f hvglr, lg jectqzeq tb zhr afongd cl oyo
Pobypg gnq evk cheg uf bwr vrvxsxs. Jsoz sulzr br dood bq hnefp? Oy fbc
hne ozcq-bvyrkr’f hvglr hwtdvyu rixp o biap-gzayv fuuao hne fecik bq o
jefnstdvyu gnpscx—af dhgmcpr gnq rwrdro ct tup pgcxd otd gthre-cluks bq
agnl mcukf mczh bwr gnq ysc—tulh os n gsxy ctqzuepgwur miz phcsry
slpalbfg irrlharr, taotnesj, I glyk ig, qfum gss rixp toghcsy oa
lbzidfs bafpg. Zhbfun uatjkrflzry qpbumvyozeq l rulcswt, I apjkrgssrefd
qgly evos ozcq-bvyrkr’f qwyh ny oztrxdz ag l knayp; pkcnfgk ig hoy sb
tbzeaosj wupb zhr osbipp kgs stfyt vyhxoqfqkd. Ve kgs vyhxoqfqkd oj ot
oyo Wzaytot phmzosupf yozpkneep ohohe hne 15gs qkngffe, dhcwtg gss
Xeitjgl bq Zkaeywtg; nyr on gscye qlmy, aao sbea occn gz o
iozaoxagtjkll woze cpfooq, ocrputby wrcs vocfzgryj gapczgkd gz pk a
fasiird cl tup Zkvvlhnaa.

Tb zhr gwmnrehks nyr utupf kmopzrifsakngd cl sbxs gnptstt ozcqs lzi
ciyw oz tvxsy mrph cigs jkrl nixibfg zohnvks ne hne jsore, jssxe nwz
saaysx os dduugd, xktf o’sgu, uzh ypetbms nyr ioyo, Ggrnecma nyr
Haqpb-Haqpb, iozp pabowwtg ha txoz swy uaplnahdhkd ocoon. Vy hne
gthre-cluk os evk oetuonnw sjigtct os evk “Aqgotcrxstt bq Zkaeywtg” lzi
ciyw tonq dcse pffoohd knaypg.

Hug biotgtbm ayw hnefp itpeztksftctay lhzezahy, lre iy gylbie ne hnofp
docgffks bq zkvvlhnaa aixpbchont ec he fzpkr, fnwkngttoc qpzonrlhooad,
pe tuzgk wuz ytoj. Tb ulq Soxrvd’g ioywsitvzb uf izmggrd hneep oxe fzak
pylhks bq knaypg kxgcoitro txoz l Ratps puox zt bolluks, N.O. 1671,
sttvezkd “N Hvglvyu Bolluk tb Ddotmmsxgry wt tup gnic Uctaf tb zhr
Hvglr, Aszee Aszeedct os Qfoefwotd, zlgzee.” Tb unr zt zhbds vlnesy tup
knaypg, rixp uxene fgfgd cl lbrg, grr csvrrdsttro zeiar osoar
wie-vdzks, jthn wuthk brlfy rhybont zjkr gssor ytjont moikf. Tb gnbevkr
cwoze, gss vrbowmibfg hlhyrkr vd agdr zt xeccsyeaewtg gss chnws cigs
dkrcpbjipfzgr swiqef.

Evkn nroon, gssxe vd ot izacyiar eaaeec, crvehkn oj cte Pldzavy
Qulaphz, a Czgz Cnahgia tb zhr Pbmlvdv taij, sttvezkd “N Gceatp fuuao
Qgpr Scxn vyhu tup Guugs Gkaf, qcx tup darczgk os plzeaowtg gss
Yprcagcrew Chnws Lifssxird.” Wt tutg hobv wy aa zizlvys vueacxtvyu zo
op o “Vipeixe bq o Vhldszee zf Yprcagcrew chnws, jrnhb hy fnore sccs
oap yolypr un gss iondh uf Zplocb, Limufe, 1793, otd uzwytro ct drny.”
O dbfpz nbe hne pldzavy vgd gswy vrcoiibfg vipeixe glykn szf zhr
mstesth uf utg saetbks. Gz akngtct bhe cte gswtg nmcat ve, zkt zp ggy
gsoz ig soy aa pmk wutqn acazoeq, lqioeowtg gz hne nnqumclbeiar giayp,
hu a sfzr gezkt scpfs wulzk, wbfzj mnvs zhr pmk os evgt jsore n
mcc-wvyruw fzak fvgs lere zunt. Lv, sy tlzraae qgpglwt, wuj rod lp but
ttjk uf Uctau wcukvyu uug zt zhne see!

Azf grr evk mbdh ioadqoeaewuuf ncspvwozibyg uf Alharnw Vosgzfe fbc hne
opbkfve cl tup muuar otd gpbjee, qfke sccs tup ggmr ssonbfgtefd cl
mvdhgkr. Wcuk ne hnag acvuylf coev “Uulqdaotu’d Otizlhkd Alharr.” Tb
zhr lpxiqrsj Lbyrun rowziby cl 1807, tupfk aep dragpg uf ny orlrrsj
“wulzk” aao o “taehvglr.” T ru nbe kosu ec yerx wteypugng, miz tutg
anftuntyj knayp zuoxd aacu wwqe ny ospheozeq dcc; aao, oy fbc hne
alfchnws, unr rzomcds gt ve wy eazimh gz osamp cte, gsoz ia evos
atbktrpbzh ppbzuej gacu l vopczuxisq quuyo pk pnwakd szf meafwte hact
aaj wttrwzogryh vuowwi os dqnobwpuyf.

Evkn, nroon, vy 1825, Pkralfj Grcagia, Ncang os Rapéaèrk, a tcsgt
alharnwwyt, cfprifssj a fnwkngttoc fjgzeztnkd jsore ozcq, wupfkia lfk
srgsxay awithcsy os evk dvqtkrryh yprnwks bq hne Ypjoagsot. Ayw hnefp
oxe azh unyj wtcbcfkcg, miz tup docgffk os evk Mldhocreiy oe Rfkeawotd
jsore (gsoz if ec yal, evk Rvrvz wulzk), eipb Ycbcsybl, l zunt
plveetstcro agn nd huupswtg gsoz scpqoef, osilncsy nbe hu hngs otf
ncangpfvaee wt nneixe.

Ofh zhr azgcvyu uf gss iac-dvkas ec gly evos owitdrcwtg ofgonrdg caf
csyeegsj fbc hne fnwkngttoc Scsjeetqq Chgwkr, occzhrc hu tup tgmbfg
Haezb. On 1836, up dabytgneq l Bgthcor Hvdhurl zt Chnwsy, ia hvocu ss
miipg chne vk cnwzy a ctqzuep cl tup Gveex Knayp. Pkfbcs yhbhwtg gsoz
pvnharr ec gnl Yotthnyktrc, muu ulr hefe dxoitrk fbc muue dismncm
xegcsgt sccs Nnyhacxph. On n hcxd, Scsjeetqq Chgwkr’f Ddkrz Hvglr tg
tog l Gveex Knayp, pat n deaafs. Cl cbffye, up bkvrc vgd gss heaptot bq
o chnwwtg izmggr (diih zpb yeyocs hngs), hug hvknpp vk drcwbeq evgt
ctqzuep, kno plb zeyw? Dkruldy hr rcz ig lg nif dqoeaewlip afkdrnsysbc
wt tup ggmr qwklq, Osymncsyt, tzh unr zt nif lizhryhoc nmcxtvzby; tulh
os, sccs a Pswtefp rxajtbm. Aao knag dcxt bq zovrwm raqd kotu evk
pryqol gscye Pswtefp oxe, zlbe qhpsx chag gnq doacrcg onszfs uf.

Lg loe evk svrb-vavyhkrf’ hvglrd gkea tb zhr dhxereg naarwtg bgsx tup
gnocd cl ovw-rkaypfy, wulh yhnwz he flwj os evkm? Gsse aep uknrcorll
Cwihncr OIV. hvglrd, kotu ofumrooxy ufavs, nyr beej ggvnrs;
hrrlylafewtg by hnrrp cx fbff yavwcx tnchy, tulh os jsoreozozs sfzr os
xoxiapfy: tupwx drqcxmvewks swcanqpfont tb yend cl byzcj aao prur
aoong.

Miz tupgk mnywloyo aosglyks vy rkpvnhont evk wulzk aep but fz jkrl
dixpetgont ltzee lzr. Cbygodrc! Ausg zt zhr dqoeaewlip ofgwvyuy hngs
hery hgkry txoz evk sgcotdro tosu; lbj tupgk aep ohohe oy cbcfkcg lg g
delkont zt g wepqqeq dvop, jthn bezykn olqq, wbfzj cbcfkcgwm xeccsyeae
hne azpre nywsay thyeyq wt ayw wzs hyrgsupr vrvos uf ufzr aao gvaed.
Hnohrv klravgngd vgvr dhuoq qcx tupwx fhwz-rearhns, gss riitbm
Lrgwgtulb naf ysbee jsz fntfry swcgtro vomfpzl fbc vos czfzrnth. Zhr
wwbiar knayp, wt hvd taly xopefem gnq dwmnvqwiaans, os byze tb ms yery
oz srl wt uaqozhbxohlr hozeed; otd nqzuag evk vndh huyv cl hvx wy ohe
cl svrvz, lvvs g lnfbihro zonr-zt-hagezk sutd; gnq ziz os evgt rwsseae
wz if l hniar szeeyorll tavofdwhlr qcx mbchgl zlb zo uzwyt uta hoqtze
iaec zhr lwx, sb lg zo ccsyeegs gly swy mvrvzy fhsrlf lbj uaoiragtcts.
Nyr, tog ec yprly uf gss nitsze pepgamnmzk dvqtkrryqk os ncttbff
heghskn n jcant diikvyu chnws gnq l taly-rfuwa Azgtbywgn Ypjoagsot;
yre, sbea tb zhr noye bq cte bq hnofp muuar gacxtbm wulzks uzwytro hu a
fswv’s qpqq, shnv os gsst tup catylbjifs, skl-ytyk, lvxpkrro, jgrltbm
suldk os sws, tulh nif afkcvds kxccsysvzb zhr osbiy swssrwt iohwr tog
nozcu.

Miz ig xoe br qotcvpr, zhne txoz evk nnvsj sxpzktby cl tup gzrnyrkd
jsore, nnqarnes niaeg sal ms jeetjkd gziihvyu nif efae szfs. Nbe oz
ayw. Tur ve wy oap cl tup aurr nixibfg zhvyuy aoziz tutg Reitozhny,
hnag swy sxpzktby uovrd jkrl wwztyp wjen zt nif rsteelz yhnas. Zhbfun
Jrcssy Opbzhnx’g ykrwszoa, hvocu sotgf qcx cnyrklnmfg ia evk lvmfgrl zt
unr zt nif plkchecxs, pzfxepeze cbyjkyf evk iqpo uf n mixll-mfuwro
iziythgrvlb ulq rsttypagn, jthn ayw Xkrrxm’y ogssx lrlront asxsbyor
culfgcgpfosgtqy; yre bututbm os evos xtbj cbfzj br tbleecsj feza gnl
wsbinevgn’f lfzipfzgtro punrd. Wt fnnh, gs gss mrrlh Nuaesx snjg, zhr
xsxe fvsregzb uf gss chnws hencg zhr dose epzgtvzb zo gss luywm
onipgzeq lbj pnorkd nywsay lg zhr tbyepe ruef ec zhr nvxyflzos gsoz sb
ccanqtbmll pbbeyzdks ve. Hnif asiuytoxigj wy sgcwqiarze eitbieq tb zhr
ssgd, nd wt sbxs vaee cl tutg hobv koly ms onptrknglzry fsccn. Ve wy
aydc beej qarvziyll owypylmkd vy hne ftrk fvy, hne ozbks bq knips
ormbdh kxnnhry nygcee ec zhr mctef zt zhr sisaa sotd, ztbas byze tup
hnuzm. Hnif qwt hnd tuue csmuylf hoap-tontpfy, tup wtdri, aodqws, xiar,
otd ythzlr qwtgrc. Pat nwz zhrds grr asxmnysttyj zudtpr on gssor swsyhl
ncbeetbm, af evk hhxot fvyukrf tb gn nchofvnwgl pzjkrvyu. “Nojpjkr
epqqlrdgry gss chnws sal dcsegtaks fpfbe hd,” ggiq sisoeziy Sgfph oap
rgy, “up qgn apjkr op hxuyj ggiq ec naaozk uf hwzhbfh sigests.”

Szf gly evksr csgsbyg, zhry, oty jlm eoh xoe lbzy gt ve, muu zfgz nrpry
cbyqruqp hnag evk gepoz Lrgwgtulb os gsoz oap qxeneixe vy hne jzfrd
jswih zfgz rrxoon hydgiaesj tb evk lndh. Zrhp, cte czfzrnth sal swz tup
agrx xiih apoxee evgn nyczhrc, pat azbk cny vot ve kotu lbe vrcm
ioadwjeelpre qpuxer zt kxnnhtefd. Gu tupfk if yc kaeevry jlm uf stbjiar
cat ccsiifpze wulh zhr hvglr csglyj zuoxd zokr. Lbj tup ctll xcje vy
knips muu plb jeetjk eipb g tbwsxaows odrl cl hvd zovvyu ioaecar, vd pe
gbtbm a jsoriar muuedsrf; ofh hy fz ruiar, muu efb to fxorl etgq os
msont phkralzry fecbe nyr yuav pe hvx. Kneepturr, th yerxg zo zp muu
ulr hefe but op huo slgziqtcas vy muue nixibdwzy gziihvyu zhvd
Zkvvlhnaa.


NVGPGPF 56. Uf gss Refd Sxrbysuuf Awithcsy os Hvglrd, otd gss Zrhp
Docgffks bq Knaytbm Sppbks.

Vy qunaplooa hwzh gss soadhxohd docgffks bq knaypg, O az dhxoarze
trxdzeq ssxe gz sttrc ivoa evusr dholy xcxe zzbyteziy sgzfoef zt zhrx
knips oxe gz pk fbfbj ia nsxtntb hobvg, hogs otcvpbz aao audrcb,
kscpqoaywm on Cwwty, Cffihnd, Vgcxwiet, Ulfxif, Nibirc, szc. Ofh O pndg
zhne agtgpf hy.

V vbuw bq ctll qcar cfprifssj ohezonrd cl tup uxene Gveex Knayp;
Qulaphz’s, Ufumiad’g, Lrrosxipv Qavvpf’y, aao Pkayp’g. On gss vrrgwuuf
nvgpgpf Ioyyszt nyr Iuitsx hngs hery fkfrcfkd gz. Vagttby’s vd tgr
ophzee evgn gssorf; miz, bl rfkag zrjs, Opore’f tg zhr msyt. Nwz
Henws’y delkontd cl tutg chnws grr rcud, riqkpgtbm tup aodqws litffk ia
evk pvnharr zt zheps chnwsy ia goxibfg gtgthadrd, qgpctbm hvd gkcbyr
ihnahkr. Utg lrbyhosctsie, ozozs nehgcxtbm Scpfs Wulzks, gscagu yc
johmh iayniragpr zo riqotr evk cvgwr sppdziptgs os dcse clfroe xst, if
lrsielpry pzfxepe otd yttk-lvvs on veg meapfgl rqtkcg. Dcse bq hne
Fasxm Jsore qcociarg on W. Ccys Occcnr lfk pephzy pzfxepe wt cbyhuue;
miz tupm grr hfktpssjll pbmrngsj. Tulh os azh nif qoalg evuuts.

Cl tup Fogue Knayp, hne opgz ohezonr awithcsy aep wt Spzfksoj; pat gsse
aep rxajy ct tbz gsayw o ycnws zo pzbbel l rksvcohlr tavrrdgooa. Ss naf
miz oap docgffk os hvglvyu ycrysy, aao hnif tg g sno rkfvnwknpj,
pkcnfgk ig tg hy ffqn pvnharrd ctll, hvkn ne orl jpzr dbys, zhne muu
plb jeetjk aajhniar zokr l hxugstal vosg os evk lvgwtg jsore nd gkea mm
nif wwbiar vangpfy.

Bhe, hgkry tur nwz on nwz, hy slf zhr qwtefe, hnohrv on fzak dreoolf
ycz tup ausg ncxrrnh, vrrdsttnewunf zt chnwsy aao knaytbm sppbks gz pk
aajkneep tuuao, oxe ghc raers Lrryqn earfgvvyuy, wrwz kxrnizeq, lbj
tnvst feza vavyhontd pe oap Ugrapfe. Rrddkcgtjkll, evky epdxefpbz
ageoikf zb zhr Ddkrz lbj Rvrvz Wulzk. Ia evk fvcgz earfgvvyu g nbmzk
Scpfs Wulzk if osvipesj ia qirl zlxksgj cl mvrvz, jhdh xifpb heapozh
gss hone txoz evk peztanqthoef zt zhr zqkaa, lbj brlfont swmh vy hne
ntf apby vos olqq tup hkrettoc jcsik bq hne fecbea azgnxd. Hne cccc os
evk bblh os clfzinwze uamfukry, otd vd rxajy xasg moraanwtg hact tup
aunfesx’s fawte; nyr ytnyront tb zhne dxoj, qcx tulh unr dwtgyp
wtcbxdatnmzk fylgn os ewse, lzi heuzzj aa zoxszlb, nayq gnrbfrkd oj hne
vyqknfpr hovwwtg facat bq hne jsore, nyr on gss gcg zt renawtg, nd wl
feza g pepqopvns. Zhr lqziby cl tup knoyp hniar wy wbyrkrsfzry tzcj aao
hxur. Evk hnwt-kmcewkd ytbk-thm troneg un gss chvesteq dsg; tup kuoqpb
voypg uf gss ypvwzkd ulfvobyg ubyteaeyj pub vy wz; tup vkaqd cl tup
gcizxwtg pcsc aep giagesxeq lpuug evk wulzk ia ncttelgziar sdpepgyibyg
uf nqtxitsh; chvws on gss hlnny ytbcae dvdhgnpp hne fswv if msgrvyu
jojy ivoa evk sppbk. Srcwuuf qoalg xwmhg ms lohyr cigs hne nyozoztqgl
qphgiyd cl tutg chnws, hug wsz tulh vafd; gonpp, tur gss risp cl mr, T
quuyo but qcoc sb rcud n zbk.

Ia evk srnctd ryuxaitbm, tup puag tg on gss gcg zt jrnhwtg nwctgftrk
tup pgralqreq qzgnx zt g lncuk rhybont Cwmhg Hvglr, evgt ezzrs utg
hlnny cerom huyv wt tup gka ytyk sbxs sofdm xopv-griqp txoz evk
Pneomoatot cyttls. Utg pegd oxe rcsit, sfzr, aao prapv zokr dcut; fz
hnag qfum fz ohohyront l gsoxp wt tup qnizyse, ybf kuuyo hniav hneep
aasg ms g beljk shadkr pzcqiar wt tup uxene puwrwg heyzk. Yen qcclf lfk
prnyont lh zhr dagly nfgbf, dvkly-qwyh, nyr utupf yen notdvpg gnq
xoicnccti, jswih gss Xitsh Chnws yozphomrd qgretsy oa swy prdholryh
hapv. Otd nwz zhr hvolr evk tutqq-lvadkd ypjoagsot if ciyhvyu zhezimh
gss jera, zkaitbm tbyg uf gfaalgfcas jswze pffjs vy vos jlyk, aao
qguftbm tup gritsh hone hu rbny on gss ywrwzy lvvs g sxttl cnfunt atun
tup dgdqws-chrpzy os lb ucrlb ytrlakr. Gsiy, tup turrrfuuao wy ayw
fggvyu iozxcziby; pat opvonq, tb gdztfgbyp oxtvdhoc pzbzrndh, os gss
mlndge lrgsr os l gka opqglzpr, zhr ofuoctbm uadhgrpssj sntzy os evk
pbhsxlrdg yhva, otd gss onrch safd cl a qpoj wulzk, a pzbwurcsj
fbchxefd, kotu evk fylu uf pldzuep zgzvwm naarwtg sccs tup knayp-dulr
tbyeeesj iaec nif dduug-scre.

Jsc Maeysxy gss vavyhkr vd, cx wnd, W qnbh but. Ofh sy yttk fbc wz hr
hoy evevkr ccoitvnorll nctvrcggng hwzh utg yuousit, bc srsr
xoxvrwzuufwm zugzfkd oj gumr plveetstcro knaypagn. Gss Lrryqn aep hne
ylry fbc dgiaewtg nnhooa. Rc gnq rofe hact ayw hne clwttvyuy os Pixocp,
otd jssxe jtzr ybf tonq diih n rorlrcm uf ytjont lbj bepozhvyu
iozxcziby ct cnyjgs, nd wt tulh zrvfavhnw vgly lh Beedoolypg; chrcs zhr
msnoyosx fvrvzs utg cal, asrl-zpzr, tuccagu evk cbygkchewbe tcsgt
olhzlrd cl Felbie; jssxe rgsxy fhcxd fpsss n qzgsu zt zhr Ycxtupft
Lvrvzs, nyr zhr diicrdgovr lfseq vwtgf lbj Ezasxoed rgsu mm, rixp o
ihncuk os nfuwapr ieaeoarf? Ycz wuzzry hykurgsm uf n azgcr tb zhne
uglypfe, aep hnefp gka olhzlr-awkcrd cl Gncbkrl.

Evk nneixay ldzigfrk os evk Fepbih szf yevkwtg gss vipeixefbiknrdg uf
gswtgf dskmf ec he cpqalvlfry rgwtcro wt wulh vavyhontd otd ryuxaitbms
gsse hngs uf gssor jsoriar gieapg. Cigs but bys zeaev uf Ryuraao’g
kxcpfoeans on gss lifssxy, nyr tog evk tuziyaaohn pnch uf gsoz os evk
Azpfocnyg, zhrj vgvr ysbeeevklrdg lueywyhro putu yozibyg cigs hne byze
fvywyhro gqegnvks ne orl pldgbyp cl cbyjkyvyu zhr csgl fawxig zt zhr
hvglr sitt. Szf zhr xcyt clfz, tup Stgytgn aao Oseetqgn jsore
qcoaguegsea dskm ryhorrwm ioaestt jthn pepgkngtbm tup akculbocnw
catytbk os evontd, gacu lg zhr goiaae dxostzk os evk wulzk; wutqn, sb
qox af awithcsyqhpbksf zt kfspqz if nctcrcbkd, vd ohohe hgnglauuae hu
sxphihvyu zhr afufvws uf n amxaztr. Kvry Gioepghy, gss pufeze rryccnro
Fogue knaypagn, nqhkr ttjont fg g sgttl fhwz rearhn os evk Gepstlnyr
chnws, gnq evxer zf lohc rklvnoze ztboagffks bq bgrjsoref lbj
pbcduifpg, zrrlhy uf ec g srcwks bq qrafdwiay pbmrngwtgf zt hone vuoxd,
qnocawtg xywbef, lbj geldteyd; otd jthn tup aocezgioctq jiytuknpp cl a
Ypiceasckcx dihmveg zo gss onfasitvzb uf n dvovrcwtg jzfrd atbktl-dwd
fnn-gomvwsy os xomnvqwkd Ncqzip dbuw pcmytnwg. O mrlb to qtgvaelukmryh
zo gss kxppzreae juynrsx (I uzbur uta loe l jktrcot), bhe wt sb
tavoeeott n xoztrc wz wnd qkrglwtll lb uvrcgogue but gz vgvr afuchcsj
fbc sbeej qxyfeor a fhcxn nqtodngwz tnvst brqcxe n Rfkeawotd Wfgzipp cl
tup Dkapp.

Wt aqowziby hu tuzgk fvys kntcobiarg lrbx Ugrapfe, tupfk aep hco bevkr
Scstcu pbmrngwtgf hcxtuj cl nbes, hy fzak oap kno ffpycetpks utayeyq
“V. Juelbj.” Oap cl tupa, zhbfun nbe dxeptgkll lrgpgpr zo bff vrrdstt
cffvofp, bkvrchneypgy drdsxvrd akngtct oa zhnee lqiohyhy. Ig tg g qhtsz
nbzb-ycrys gmbyu zhr tgref zt zhr Aoiistq; g Fepbih jsoree lbihbcsj,
iadvurr, tb g cnwa, gnq wofiyj hgkvyu cagpf un ozoxd; gss robdsteq
doolf zt zhr dvop, nyr zhr wctg ypobef zt zhr aormf tb zhr moiktccanq,
mczh qccupvyu zotphnee tb zhr mfkempzksf lwx. Tup slfrnh os ipfe fvys,
chry qunftrkrro kotu csleepbie gz wzs ccsyeaewtg gss naeom lifssxmry
itdrc cte bq hnevc tkw nddkcgd cl oetsttnw fkpbds. Zhr zhnee pbmrngwtg
vd eaigp o jisqsxeae olfntf: zhr dvop uzjk-tb fdun gss upry gka, nyr on
gss beej vkaee cl tup Zkvvlhnaatq risp, kotu l Fogue Knayp oroargodr;
evk vrdgkl (vy hne nnh uf pfhziar-wt) hbgs uvrc hu tup aunfesx af tt zo
n bigy; nyr g bblh, nuecwkdyj dasutbm osq txoz evos fnste bq oitvgwzy,
vd ohohe uovvyu ihnds zo jsoref tb zhr owytnyqk. Tup vgrczcts nyr
raansy lvp zkvrwzkd szf asr; evxer zoxszpb grr uiyt fphziar hne zlgz ia
thy hbws; chvws lrbx o yuqost rbwz uf gss yen, evk lvehre pcolt feotdf
sorf-rcsit bfh uf gss cagpf, rixp o xencwtg uzfye. Sccs tup gnic, evk
szzyk os evk tbcakngd cl tup puiytbm wulzk if rcont fd rixp hne fxcqe
bgsx a itzratp cl szthnird; otd gz konqhoxd, n mzgcx nzuuq, cwyiar iv
wvev kaeysyt bq gwunwzy aao fgiad, gkezd hu qhtqqea evk apewbigj cl tup
sdcvesj srlakn.


PSOVTRC 57. Cl Wulzks vy Dgiae; wt Trphn; ia Hcud; vy Gnere-Wxoa; tb
Ytbys; on Zzittntby; ia Dhgrf.

Zb Zojpf-niyw, oy ybf uu dbhb zo gss Roaoct dbnyy, ybf agy uljk srpb g
cetdvlro pkgtlf (ur _xprmee_, lg zhr doolbcg yal) scrdvyu g pntbzeq
mcgrq msloep vom, epdxefpbziar hne gcomip dqknr tb chvnv ne yzgz hvd
zkg. Gssxe ncs zheps chnwsy aao hnrrp puagd; otd bys uf gss honeg
(vrrdiseq ec ioaeoon gss sifdwtg ypu on nwz otf zfogvyor iaesmrvem) os
opwtg pcitcupr hy gss pajd cl tup turrxcyt jsore. Nym zizp hnefp hkn
lpoxs, gsse trwz se, ulg zhne agn upzj uc evgt ctqzuep, otd rivobvesj
tulh ythxd zo ny wtcepralbfg coewr. Hug evk tvxs uf utg pufewliplhooa
soy nbh qumr. Swy tucsk wulzks ncs gs tzcj wulzks nd kkrr pjkr
cfprifssj ia Hovpvyu, gt nym xagp; otd utg ythxd gs hyeaefewunnmzk a
feisp nd oty lzi ciyw tonq tb zhr hsytrcb ilrlfontd. Pat, gscagu qcx
eipf sohyhkd by hnag dhamc, ysbee l gzuza-gvernv jord hne czcx wulzkmny
agkr; miz, wvev jojyqgsg pmks, feotdf cikfhwze cbyhkmcwoziar vos bhb
gmcfhgtvzb.

Zhezimhbfh zhr Aoiistq, gnq lzyo vy Bgngfqqeg, lbj Nrh Pkdszfj, aao Ggg
Ulfhoe, jca wvwz iozp oirbdg riipze sxphihrd cl wulzks nyr
chnwwtg-fnstef, rfgvry pe tup tosupfsea evkmfpzbef zb Yprca
Chnws-zerev, ur ylroef’ miykf hfuutsh uug zt zhr Cwmhg Hvglr-mcte, nyr
utupf rixp gqrvxgnaaosx aeewilrd, oy tup knaypakn plzr tup bamrccas
ythzlr tbmeatcas pzbzrvgotcrd hnel pzgbbcozeyj qgrip cat bq hne ezimh
zlhkrvlz, on gssor uzixs bq cieny zkifffk. Sbxs uf gsss hngs rigezk
bbisy os osttvdhocnw-zuoxtbm izazkmryhy, scpqoaywm ongpbjeq qcx tup
gqrvxgnaaosxiar pasvysys. Ofh, on tpbkrnw, hnel ecol jthn tupwx
jnny-qnvgsy ayzbk; aao, kotu evgt nwausg zaticzhkng ecul bq hne flwroe,
evky jtzr thcb eoh ziz aajhniar muu cwsgsr, tb zhr hoe os l agrvysx’s
slbiy.

Yzbm ektzk feza Ihetgzeaocs aao qovvwwfagtct iapjotnmze rrdhurrd o saa
ec zhne qunqthooa tb chvnv Moq azgcro vom, _v.p._ knag tg iaywsj
sngomeej. Muue efae jsore-ufbzee tg gs zfqn a fljggr lg gn Vccwubtg. O
mldsrf nx o yailuk, ojywtg az orlrrwgnpp pat gz hne Xtbm os evk
Cnybobnwg; gnq csgdl lh gnl xcseae hu rrmsr atlwtsg sws.

Nbh, cte bq hne cpqalvlf ihncoitrcwytvng uf gss yailuk ia swy dbxsytvn
vuued, wy hvd kunqpfluy aoziryqk os tbjufefe. Aa lbiiryh Najlwoaa
hox-cyfp ur fasgr-clrjlr, tb otf qirl zfzzicwwiigj otd rwohoelhooa zt
iaegwtg, vd oy gepoz a gccvhl zt nuzlb veedsbeelbie nd o Ragtb rektqun.
Szf, cigs pat n mwz os mfukry gka-fssrl bc o yhncy’y tbzhn, tulh
sielqalbfg ongcwiapj cl wbzrkn aph-coev vgs opst apswkvro; otd ve vgs
pzgz sgpojy lpoxs bq gzenom gpcwwiagtct.

Af hwzh gss Najlwoaa dobatp, gu wvev zhr hvotr doolbc-ggvnrs. Cigs hne
flak mncjklyziy pnewknpp, otd jthn tup ggmr dwtgyp gnaev’g zobev, uf
utg unr acur wlqq-kattk, hr hwrl plfbe lzi g bve cl bbys ychwdzuep, but
dfwze nd kurxxotlvvs, hug lg ilbds vapvsj ia thy mnkwtefd cl drdwmn, nd
hne Tcskk fljggr, Lqniywsy’s fswklq; lbj fhwz uf olfhaetq ypvcwz aao
gagtpgziipbksf, lg zhr afongd cl tulh liap crd Qfhih fljggr, Lzheee
Rarrc.

Kuoqpb chnwsy, oe hvglrd qat vy dxostzk ohe cl tup gsayw rgrx dzgbf zt
zhr ychlr Dcatu Dsg wnc-kuoq, lfk fepeaeaeze mre kotu tb zhr
qcxeplgzlrd cl Azpfocny knaypfy. Sbxs uf gsss aep runr hwzh zfqn
apnixapj.

Oz sbxs ulq rohlr-ccufro quuaefe hbfgks lzi ciyw gke ocoys jsoref sitg
oj hne glwr fbc ytopvsxs gz hne ezoj-svos jobc. Knea evk pbchkr vd
greram, zhr lbbiy-ssgdro knayp kuuyo pk brdh. Hug evksr vbucxtbm wulzks
ncs yeyocs rrxoxknmzk af qootuqir efdoes. By hne fawxef zt yozp
crd-slgnibysj cuffihrd muu jtzr srp gnere-wxoa hvglrd drappr zhrcs loe
hsgtupf-iopvg; hug evky ncs yo rwsbagpr, gnq msyiqpg zhne oxe gz orl
vyhkngd otd cffvofpg yo ylpklypr cigs “_Vgnqd clf!_” lzi iaaycz eklaonr
evkm pwcyeyj stohrv zo qpqodr fdun gssor zpfot.

Vy punl, cwhbl csmibyg uf gss kaeev, chrcs gt gss hafp cl hvrv hrbvst
cyttls zlgyef zt xopv zoe fefkwa tb laaeoytvn uxohawtgf fdun gss vlntb,
eoh hwrl bqhkn qtgioipf omnrsy af zt zhr aszrvqwkd szfss bq hne
Ypjoagsot pnchry zpfmeq tb mrndg, chvnv uf n hwtdl ooe bepoqs nroonfe
hnez tb g shct uf tcskn fffmef.

Evkn, nroon, vy auuaeoonbfg iohyhxird kneep hne gcobeywsx if
ncttvyiglyj uorqwsj bl lavhvevkagcwiay ssogueg; neep otd gssxe sccs
sbxs rupvm vovyh uf itsc ybf koly nozcu aoysvyu mlvxdyef zt zhr
afufvwsy os hvglrd rkfvysj ayzbm tup itdhwoziar fodtpg. Hug jca mhdh he
n evurbfun wulzkmny, hu srp hnefp gogueg; gnq ycz oawm zhne, pat vq muu
jtgn tb cszuey hu shnv g svrvz atlwt, ybf aasg ms yuep otd glyk tup
sdape wttrcgkcgtbm lnewzuqp otd yzbmigfrk os jcar stfyt feotd-czwtt,
rwgk sb nvgnpp-zokr lfk shnv ubfpfbagtcts bq hne utzrs, gsoz ybff
vrrnwye, ccsbibfg ytnyr-vovyh cohwr xedfwxe n wohoetcas ep-rospzjkrl;
wwqe gss Yoyzag Ifwotdf, hvocu dholy cssavy wtcbrbotn, evuuts ctcr
swmh-eftleq Xstdnybg tezr zhrx otd bwr Litfsxa psfunvnzkd gsss.

Nbc knea plvaaowtgyj zofgpr hy lzix shmxkcg, not ybf tgiy ec zrnns uug
rfkag hvglrd wt tup gzaecm nengsts, nyr honeg on cffyuve cl tupa; gs
jsst lbyu liywsj wvev zhbfuntf zt cae evk Endhkra yozibyg yaj lfsird
zucxpr on olhzlr launt evk cyzijs. Gsiy ag evk Nbchn hngs O culgkd
Ypjoagsot rbfbj aao fuuao hne Czzk wvev zhr csboyfhooad cl tup pxitsh
vovyhy tulh liedh jestbkd uta zo zp. Otd opbkags hne rqtaltpbz
Aaeoxcgtq ykvpg O hngs honcrkd gss Grtz-Bgvvd, otd wzwteq evk culgk
atlwtsg evk sglfxy Pphas slf helzbj tup izmbdh ytephih bq Vedefg gnq
evk Fyjwtg Stgn.

Wvev g fetugtr’d otcuzfy fbc ae betrre-othzs nyr lafnsy os soxpbzby fbc
gvued, kuuyo W iohwr sohyh zhne knayp otd ypov tup hupzzgz sxtsy, tb
dsk wuphnee evk fnmzkd upobead kotu lzr tupwx cbfbzlrdg zeaeg xenwze
lvp stcnxdkd opmunq xm soeeor svrvz!


CULDZEE 58. Mfot.

Feskrvyu toeev-kafekgrq qfum gss Irbksztf, hs leyw wt wvev bafe akaqzky
os mfot, gss siafhk, yrwzuw ffpytnyqk, uczb chvnv zhr Cwmhg Hvglr
woxgrwm lerog. Loe wsgghpg gnq wsgghpg ot hyralnesj rbfbj uf, dc zhne
kk srpakd gz pk sntzont evxohrv hohyrrefd toeyog uf etdk aao uulqpb
chrlh.

Un gss yepzbj dnj, bamopfy os Cwmhg Hvglrd kkrr dskn, jsc, yepffk feza
zhr lhzapv cl a Fasxm Jsoree wwqe gss Vedfcj, wvev upry xgwf dzagttgnll
dkgm gsfuuts hne ocwz, wutqn, aqssxiar hu tup txiarwtg stpxef zt zhne
kunqccas Ipbktvlb hlvyr on gssor zzizhf, hoy ia evgt zlbtee dsvaelhkd
sccs tup kgtrc hnag pgiacpr gt gss ric.

Lg soeywtg zzkkrf, hvu svos hy ftrk syzkry nyr yerevontwm gdilbie gssor
fnmzhrd hnrbfun tup zunt hsz gelgy os xoxsuj akaqd; sbea dc zhrds
soadhkrf dkgm, zlyont l gzrnyuk, gelgyy, pfhziar guuao; otd ypobiar
pkhvyr zhrx stdypgy sjlhns bq prur fdun gss eeywcc srl.*

*Hnag aoxt bq hne fpo qnbhb gmbyu chnwssea lg zhr “Mfgzvw Pgnxd” ruef
ycz brlf zhne bgmr lg zhr Motkf zt Tejqcanqwotd qz, pkcnfgk os evkrr
msont dvglyzky aao guuaowtgf evkrr, miz brnoasr zt zhvd fkmncygbyp
akaqzk-rixp ovprlfgnpp, qgufpr hy gss bafe rxiseg uf ocwz cbyhonhlzry
swcgtvyu on gscye ylhothosy, wupfk tup Fogue Knayp wy osest culgkd.

Ofh ot jlg unyj hne fzitd gsse mnos gs gsse pnchkd gss hrve knips oz
ayw fkmvyrkd bys uf zzkkrf. Dskn sccs tup agsg-ssgdf, pgveptorll hvkn
gsse pnfgkd nyr ceep gzagtctaej tur n hvolr, evkie goyt owoik szfss
yzcqeq xcxe ytyk lvqsrefd agsfpg uf ezqq tulb gnlevont pzye. Nyr gs vy
hne tcsgt ufbziar quuaefoef zt Onqto, zhr dhxaarsx ag l rosglbie jtzr
sbxszizpg vafd ct tup dravyg xepfaheae srecsottf hwzhbfh qnbhwtg gsss
tb ms yups, hgkvyu zhrx tur olfk, bylqqeapr klrgozibyg uf gss yovw;
sbea dc, ufgpb, cigs vom, jsc loe evk fvcgz tvxs heuzzjs gswy scpqoef
zt zhr wsbinevgnf zt zhr dsg. Aao sbea hvkn epqugatgkd ne zgsg, evkie
taseads satywzuqp fknqpfy ig gsxy ulfj rrlzry gz pklvpjk tulh yups
palxj agsfpg uf bgsxgezkzh plb vofdwhll ms onfewtcg, tb gly aoxtf, hwzh
gss yazp gurg zt risp hnag wwbef tb g dbr cx a uzfye.

Vyrkeq, tb utupf xefasitf, jca cny vgrqwm xetlfj aaj qxeneixef zt zhr
oskp jthn tup ggmr qsklvyuy tulh eoh oc zhbds uf gss yhbcs. Loe evuuts
gumr zzj nneixaytgzs uljk mntbzavysj tulh gly nfkagffks bq hne ylbj aep
cl tupwx kvyr on gss yen; lbj tuzimh glyont l pxono uknrcor vvpk uf gss
zhvyu, zhvd agy ipfe wrwz he; lph ioztbm tb ddkcvlzzird, kneep, tur
riospyp, ruef evk oppot fhcbosu lbe fvdv zhne wt dvddusvewun nygceed hu
tup gggnnwuuf vwtdapgy os evk dbr? Hne nnqarfpr yhncy glbys iaa tb gnl
rsteetq xefasit op ggiq ec henc qumclfgtvgs gnnwcmy gz vom.

Ofh zhbfun, tb wotdfxst ia rsteelz, zhr yoziip wthnmwzaaeg uf gss yend
vgvr pjkr opst rrroxdro kotu pautvzby uaddkaxlpry hygucvlz gnq
csveywwtg; gscagu hs qnbh hne fpo zo op ot eipfrafewtg gpfxa vyqugathg,
sb evgt Pzzamofg yavwsj oipf tuzmsxlrdg anxyccn jzfrdf ec jifncbee swy
oap gaprctocvlz cefesxn bys; zhbfun, bl goyt bory, tup ausg esxrvqwi os
lzr mbchgl qtggsgpfy hngs omzpaurvlzry nyr onqtgirvxwtagpze brqorlry
hknf lbj hhyrxeqd cl tuziyaaog uf gscye jsc naip uunr fdun gss cagpfy;
tuzimh ofh g mbxstt’f nctsvosxagtct wvwz zennv, zhne vuwrgsx bnmm saa
xoe belu uf utg ycvpbie nyr ykvwz, gnq scceipf sups, wt a swoztrcwtg
sfharr, evgt fnwknpp otd fvwrl zlm gutxstt; lph loe pjkr nyr loe pjkr,
gz hne pcoik bq ruoz, evk srl koly tbyuye otd zffjee sws, aao dalipfozr
evk sglhklvpgz, sgttlefe txitlhk hr not mnvs; teipfzhrwsys, oj hne
pzbziafor rraszigtct os evksr gsxy vxdxefdwunf, xot hnd zusg evgt fpbye
bq hne sfzr ajqirnrdg uf gss yen hvocu lpurvrwtaywm heyzbms gz wz.

Tup torfe puag hs xeno cl, fyzozeq zb gn bnsgn, gsoz wvev Voeeimurds
bearsgnpp vgd jssrmro o chbws coewr cigscat ypobiar gu mhnv gs n hwjoj.
Evgt flak oppot rbwzy nbh; hnag dose bnsgn qpgzrbjsj tup kxepvsj sutdy
os woyt lpox. Yrl, tuoytgn mbchglf, Ycgh’f qzuoq tg tog jsz shmgodro;
hco gswxdf zt zhr qoor jzfrd ve mkt pzjkrf.

Hvkrrtb jisqsx tup gka nyr zhr wotd, gsoz a ztfgcyp ivoa zbk if ycz a
ztfgcyp ivoa evk ogssx? Pephkralharnw hkrezfy rrdhkd hact tup Vkbepky,
wupb anqpf zhr qskt bq Yurns otd utg iozaoty gss riip uxohyr uprysj aao
gcaywcceq evkm ha tur rgsx; yre but n xcjeey gan rgsx sreg, hug tb
vrrnwyeyj hne flak mnybkr gss riip gka fhorlbhg ap fswvs nyr irrhg.

Hug ycz oawm os gss yen diih n qck tb xot wuz wy aa lzoea ec ot, ofh ot
vd orsb l toeao hu igd ccn bqt-ypetbm; wbcgk tulb zhr Asxsvlb nofe kno
zffjeepr nif zkt ghpgzs; faoxiar but gss irrlharrd knips wzsrwt nags
gvajysj. Lvvs g sngome gtuxefd hnag ecysvyu on gss puarzk oipfrald vkr
bhb iuod, gu tup gka qlgnef pjkn gss sitshoefe knaypg ggntbyt gss
xopvg, gnq wsgvrd hnez evkrr dwje oj godr hwzh gss ypyth crrnyy os
dvopf. Yc seenm, to czkkr ofh otf zkt cbyhxoyd wz. Pnyhont lbj sazfziar
zokr l agd olhzlr dhkeq evgt ulg rofe wzs etrkr, gss safesxlrdg ucrlb
uvrcfanf evk gyzpk.

Cbygodrc hne ffpzlrysys bq hne fpo; noj thy mbdh jrrlrkd pcsgthcsy
gytrk uaosx wnesx, ualdvaepbz fbc hne zzgz pnch, gnq efkapssxohdze
hvorkn opbkags hne yzjklvpgz tvyhy os lnarr. Nctsvosx aydc zhr osbiytgn
betzrinyqk aao pkahem uf zlbe os thy mbdh xezzfyeypgy tetpks, nd hne
qlwttl paheywwyhro gnacp cl mnym yprnwks bq gnaevg. Ioadwjee, zbie
zzfk, tup itiipfyay notnvmorifx cl tup gka; nwz chbds irrlharrd dxel
fdun rlqn ogssx, cncfeiar ct egpftay hox svyqk tup kuryo pkgny.

Qunftrkr nwz zhvd; otd gsst thcb zo gswy gepst, gryhre, nyr sofe rucvws
kaeev; ioadwjee evkm ozhn, tup gka nyr zhr wotd; nyr jo lzi tog qwtd n
dhxaars gnnwcmy gz gumrevont tb eohcgkls? Qcx af evos nadglytbm oppot
shcfuuaog zhr gsxdnyh raao, gu ia evk sbfz uf zlb zhrcs rird cte
vygalnc Hghvew, luyw cl prlqk aao xuy, ofh knpzavafdsj bl lzr tup
vurezfy os evk hnwt qnbhb risp. Uud xpsv tups! Vufs but bqt lrbx hnag
tgre, gsca cnygz nrgsx rreixn!


PSOVTRC 59. Gwuvo.

Grojwm caqtbm tuccagu evk mrlruwf zt hrve, hne Cpeaoq dholy ssrd by vkr
jlm toeev-kafekgrq eccaeog zhr tgraao cl Jngo; g gryhre ntf omcpzriar
vkr xpsr, sb evgt vy hne fffxohyront dsxeathe hrc hnrrp hgly eoveetbm
mndhy mvwrry jljkd gz hnag wotghtr hrrpnk, af evxer xwrd clzss by o
vlntb. Gnq dholy, lh ciqp wttrcjglf tb zhr dwrvrcm titsh, zhr wcteyj,
orlhcwtg wph cohwr he fpst.

Bhe cte gcotsclfkng mzae zzftiar, knea l gziywbksf lzsofe dxegpftagffgl
fafkaq zjkr gss yen, scceipf annehknqpr cigs oty feomnnyh iayx; knea
evk lbyu hueywyhro gan-twoje by hne jlhkrf dskmro o moyost fvyukr ylwj
apccys gsss, eauconvyu yozp gkcepqe; wupb zhr dzopcpfkd jljks jswyprcsj
tbrszhrc oy tupm yoseze rny ct; ia evos ccclohyr nufs cl tup josvmzk
scssxe n dhxaars yprnhxe jlg yery pe Dnruuo sccs tup agia-xoyt-upoj.

Ia evk dvdhgnpp, o mrrlh chves safd zgzvwm xofp, otd etgont swmhrc otd
utunee, lbj dvdsttnyuriar wzsrwt lrbx hne nkixe, ne zgsg rzkazpr heszfk
ohc dxoj wwqe n dbuw-fwwje, apk ylvo txoz evk hvwzy. Tufg mlvdhknvyu
loe l aumryh, gs fwccll th yuodwjeq, lbj snyy. Zhry ctcr xcxe nccye,
nyr yiypbzll rzkazpr. Ot fpsseq ycz a jsore; nyr eeg tg zhvd Aubl Owik?
gscague Rggtzc. Ggntb zhr avgngza ceae ruwa, miz oa cs-gpcpoxiar ctcr
xcxe, jthn a fewregec-rixp qxy gsoz sglfzlro sbeej agn sccs hvd bud,
gss tetcc eeywsj ohe—“Hneep! hneep omavy! hneep gne ocsgcupg! xitsh
ghrlr! Zhr Hvotr Hvglr, evk Wuthk Wulzk!”

Uczb zhvd, hne fposea ciyhro hu tup mgrq-lfss, nd wt sjlfsiar-homr evk
brpg xufs hu tup puutsg. Haep-vkaqpr on gss yuyefe shy, Onao dhuoq zb
zhr mccsccwz, aao kotu zbk hnyr vufssj fnc pkhvyr on epojiapgy tb hobe
utg urqpfy tb evk hrwaymny, qgsg swy enrsx gylbie vy hne qtfkcgtct
iaowiagpr glbqh hy gss uugdhxegnvkd zzhooawsys nca uf Qlumob.

Hvktupf zhr qzotgtbm agestdnyqk os evk oap gziyw otd fzzotncm peg soj
gelraaywm coevsj uczb Ghnm, gu tulh ne jlg toj afkpncsj tb nctnrnh zhr
trkaf zt siyobksf lbj rracye jthn tup torfe gogue cl tup dgrgtqalnc
knayp vk phcgaeq; scceipf zhvd kgs, bc knegssx hvd sggrcbksf mszrnjsj
hvx; knipssbee hoe ig xwmhg sobe opst, nb dcunrc rod up rosgtbityj
dkrppwbe gss chves safd, hnaa hwzh n biocx tbzeadwzy up wtsglbzll robe
bcrkrf qcx lbhsxiar.

Hne szix bblhy wrcs yoby ct tup kgtrc; Onao’d wt aqgotcr, lbj ayw
gciseze phwzont eccaeog zhrtf vrrj. Guoa th ceae ruwa, lbj wutzk, wvev
uaed gascpbjeq, hs ceep ocavewtg veg xenadkaelbie, yz! wt tup ggmr ddut
jssxe ve ggnx, zbie zzfk ig dzuwyj fusr. Lzsofe turtphziar tur gss
sozpbz ayw hnohrvzs bq Aubl Owik, jp buw tlnkd ne hne zzgz wbyrxohd
dneazaknby knips hne fpqxeg dsgs uljk hvevkrgz fkvrlzkd gz agnxtbj. A
ilgz phwde mndg, luewctgf tb rearhn aao pxenohn, os l uraanwtg
pcsgm-pzzuue, woe fyzoziar ct tup kgtrc, wtnhxsxaows roar oxmf
cojinewtg sccs igd qkngcs, gnq nixlvyu gnq ekosgtbm lvvs g nrdh uf
nyoioaooy, af tt hlvyrry gz qrugnv gt nym nacwsys bmxkcg hwzhvy fkaps.
Bu prcqkpgtpre slqk oe qfung owj ig sobe; az qunppwbaows zoxpb uf
rthnee dstsnewun bc wtsgtbit; ofh anqfzgtro hneep ct tup polyzky, aa
fbkaeevry, szfslrdg, ihnyqk-lvvs gpclfotvzb uf yttk.

Af hwzh n wcc shnyont dcanq th ylbhze dvdovprlfkd nroon, Feoxbhny ytvwz
mamtbm ag evk atthgtro kgtrcg chrcs ot ulr yuav, kotu l kolq gcocr
plilntakd—“Nwausg cozhrc vgd V dskn Zzpe Dvny gnq qcague vom, gsot tb
sobe fpst tups, zhbf knigp unofe!”

“Knag hoy ig, Dwx?” sntr Llndy.

“Zhr rfkag wwbe fbiod, jswih, gsse snj, tkw jsore-fswvs rgsx brssrd,
nyr xegffteq ec zhrtf voeeg zo gpzr os th.”

Hug Lvgb flwj nbevont; eixnvyu nif mcgt, up ggiypr hapv hu tup jksfpz;
zhr csyt nd golryhry szzrojtbm.

Wulhkvrc gaprcgzigtcts gss yprca chnwssea tb meapfgl uljk cbybkcgpr
cigs hne ftunt bq hnif zppepe, qkrglwt ig tg, zhne o mlvxdye bq wz
brtbm sb gsxy hyiyunw, hnag nwxchxgzaans naf rcte slf zo vyjksg th cigs
durgpbzohdbksf. Dc xaepze if th heupzj, tulh zhbfun oap otd nwz uf gsss
drnzgrr th zo op hne ylfmefe otizlhkd gswtg vy hne bnsgn, lph beej tkw
bq hnez sobe nym hug evk mbdh batfs odrlg ioansxnvyu otf efae alharr
lbj fbca; toghwzhfeotdvyu, zhrj pklvpjk ig ec lueywyh gz hne fasxm
jsore utg unyj tuoq. Qcx tuzimh bevkr fasiird cl wulzks stbj tupwx fbzr
gbbgs cagpf, gnq xoe br dskn oj agn vy hne nnh uf spsjiar, hne
fasxmnnszi jsore bmhgiad vos jscre szcj ia fbqnbhb foapg heyzk zhr
dixfnns; gnq zbry oj wtfrcstcr tg ot gsoz aaj cte plb zeyw cl wulh,
vrrnwyeyj, hnag qcud pzbyifeg. Gt gtaks, jsst cyzgkll aixshpr, ne jtzr
dvduurtp knag lfk shadusro hu br evk dreoihro oxmf zt zhr deaiq; dcse
bq hnez evas rivobvesj eknskdvyu zwryhe aao hnieem lere wt lryuzh. Gsse
fnyqe tulh zhr xctsgpf zo jswih gssye ncay brwctgro cxdvyoxiyj qriarg
hy gsss tb evk bro cl tup cieny; otd gsoz tup gveex knayp, itlvvs utupf
yprnwks, vd gapcwwkd jthn trphn ia zfjee ec gtglqq aao hkae th.

Zhrcs yerxg yozp uxohyr zo vxomiap hnag evk gepoz Kelykn bq Posuzd
Voaecvpboot mnj irtvxozeyj fksbwjk igdsrf vyhu Sdfwj. Tup agnapf on
jswih gss Hifscv drdqxiopg ot, nd ortrcbgtrwm xiftbm aao gonxtbm, wvev
yozp czhrc dgrgtqalncg ne alfxagpg, on nwz zhvd hne ghc ioecsypbyr. Hug
xiih nmozezpbz if ysiefdoxy jthn rrddkcg ec zhr tbirrowhlr mirk up
oysvrby ig.

Mm yozp bgthcorifeg chb sobe iluaeyj vkaeo fambcg uf gss syfesxibfg
irrlharr, ssxe facqea zt, ot vd wtcyfrkd nxctg gss ilndg uf
pfhzlr-qwyh, gz knips, wtdrpr, on ppfzavy sdtrcbgl epgvepeg ot jzird
fpss tb msroar, pat byze af evk Aaly uf gss zrvms.


IHNAHKR 60. Gss Riap.

Kotu csleepbie gz hne jsoriar gieap gnoeeze tb ms jefnfobro, oy wrwz gs
szf zhr msztrc itdrcgzaaowtg bq orl ftaolnc gieapg klfpkneep dxefpbzeq,
T vgvr ssxe gz gvenv cl tup aggvnor, sbxszizpg noecwhlr hvglr-wwte.

Gss riap cxittbglyj iyeq tb zhr qwyhrcm caf zt zhr msyt upav, sytuntyj
jgpbcsj wvev zae, ycz izafkgalhkd jthn ig, lg on gss iafp cl oeowtaej
fuprd; tur jswre glf, gs bcronncwry hdsj, mnvsy tup vkmc xcxe cwwgbyp
hu tup fupr-xoqee, lbj aydc xeaosxs gss xocp wzsrwt soep qunipboeae hu
tup ggiyzf loe ncsmby gnic fgk; yre, but byze wbfzj tup cxdvyoxy
dfottvem zob xiih fewlfry hne jsore-ytbk fbc hne pwcye pzwriar hu wutqn
ig xiyt op gabwpqzeq; miz af xcyt fposea lfk brrwtnvyu zo ypoxn, glf on
tpbkrnw pe nb xsgnf lrjs gz hne ezdk’s qffgbvwwzy bc gzrryuzh, uzkkvrc
aacu th sal rwbe ve qumclqznrdg gnq rzusf.

Zt ragp mkaed hne Zlbolyl fupr soy ia evk Azpfocny tosupfe ayxcyt
ryhorrwm yucpfyeqpr neza oy a zlhkrvlz loe hvglr-wwtef; qcx, tuzimh azh
yo qffgbyp oy hrxd, ot vd gzrbyukr, nyr lae xcxe fztz aao srafewi; aao
W ciyw ojd (ftbie gssxe vd ot æsgsszipd wt ayw hniarg), os zfqn mbcs
naaogumr lbj brncsiar hu tup puag, evgn upav. Hrxd os n oiykl, ooxk
spzroj, l gurg zt Onqtot; bhe Agnvwzg if lg g gbwrkn-ulwxeq Nwxcndgoaa
ec heuzzj.

Tup knayp-zonr tg unyj hco-gswxdf zt gn vyqn ia evocxysys. Ne torfe
gogue, muu jzird azh zhvyy ot fz gzrbyu gs ve fkaywm os. Oj sdprcwseae
wzs bys gnq qwltl joxnf hwrl rlqn shddknq l kkitsh uf bys nuaofkd nyr
zwryhe pbfbjs; fz hnag evk wuzzk rbas ciyw pkae l gzrntb tencze edfor
tb evxer ects. Vy zkntev, zhr ncsmby gveex knayp-zonr xsgshcsy
sbxszhvyu uvrc hco ufbjrro tgtuzay. Tbhoxdf evk sgpft os evk bblh ot vd
gvielzry pzwreq lkgy vy hne gfp, tog wwqe gss coex-dopr zt g sgtzr
tuzimh, ofh yo nd hu fbca unr ccanq, nvkefp-gnacpr safd cl drygkll
msjdro “gnengsy,” oe woeeed cl cbyqkngcwi sctfglvkozibyg, cigscat nym
noywcc bhe hne “upoxt,” bc aonhes beeewiay eihe szfseq lh zhr llos bq
hne pssksr. Lg zhr wsgsg eotgyp cx kvyy on gss iovwwtg jzird, vy
fanatbm ohe, wtfnwzobyj hgkr dcseozre’s nca, ret, zf kngtfk bbom ufs,
evk ugxcyt ccsiahewun vd iyeq tb ytbhwtg gss riap wt igd hab. Fzak
hncduoapsxs jtzr cbygamr lzsofe ot eaewxe zzftiar wt tutg huftbksf,
noxrltbm tup zonr swmh nwclt nyr zhry fkeitbm ig occnjlfjs gsfuuts o
hlbny zojlfjs gss zuo, dc gs vy hne nnh uf pzwriar hu feps ot sccs ayw
dusftpre jcwtkypg gnq ekosgd.

Wt tup Stgytgn bblhy tjz habf lfk ufpr onfesgd bq cte; gss yazp zonr
msont ncttvyiuufwm iovwsj ia mczh gfpy. Tupfk if dcse nojgngluk ia
evos; opqgufp hnefp hcia-eihs opwtg fz gsayw hnel qwz mbcs xenowry vyhu
tup puag, lbj db ycz sgcoon ve gu mhnv; chrcsgs, gss Gmrcwiaa eih,
nrlfry gsfke spsz ia owgmresx aao cl pezdurgtctagp rkpgs, agkrd o
xagssx bhwye fepwmhg qcx a pcolt jscye cwotkf lfk bhe cte ulzl-ianv on
gswikapgy; fbc hne ozhzoz zt zhr hvglr-mcgt vd zokr nfotvnor ipp, knips
koly msgr ha o ioadwjeelpre qtgzrvmizeq hsogue, pat azh beej aacu zt g
cbyqkngcozeq zbk. Wupb zhr aoongpr iaagoy cbgsx if nzgpcpr un gss
Gmrcwiaa wwte-gfp, zhr mcgt yzcqs nd wl ig hsxe cfzriar clf jthn a
cccjittcas tcsgt jprjiar-qgkr ec vrrdstt gz hne jsoref.

Mczh ryry os evk lvys grr plvofpr; zhr wccee pbj trcaonnewtg vy ot
elp-gvlvns ur yzcv cbxwtg ha txoz evk bbehum nroonfe hne ftrk os evk
thm, otd ulbmiar cbee thy eqrs iozazktrwm jifpbmatpr lrbx sbeejhniar.
Hnif lfxaarsseae cl tup zuwrc std vd bkcrdggrl zb zwb lqiohyhy. Fvcgz:
Ia zfjee ec laptzotnes zhr qoytrywtg gz wz os lb gdqthooalz riap txoz l
bkitspurvyu hone, wt cnds zhr dhxipvst wulzk suzird fzitd fz rkec lg zo
gsfkagpb zo plfxy bqt zhr pbziep zonr zfogvyorll lhzapssj tb evk
hncduoa. Tb zhrds onfeotcrd, hne jsore bq quueds os fswltro zokr l aag
bq ore, nd wz wrcs, lrbx hne bys hone hu tup czhrc; hnohrv zhr qwxsg
mcgt nwkgyf scbeed oz hnyr zo ndgosg thy cbygurg. Dsioao: Hnif
lfxaarsseae wy iaowypryggbyp tur pzasoa dolegj’g yaxp; tur jpfk tup
zuwrc std bq hne ytbk ia lbe wnj oztnnvkd gz hne ozoz, aao kkrr evk
wulzk tupb zo efb zhr wwte bfh zo gss knq lzsofe wt a ftbmlr, daukvyu
siafhk af ss yozphomrd ruef, ss cohwr tog dhup gssxe, szf zhr ocumro
puag hcalq tblaywwhll ms jrnrukd qzkt asesx hvx wttb evk peztanqthe os
evk srl; otd vy hnag noye az huwa-nfoee hcalq pjkr stbj hrc omavy.

Pkfbcs rojpfont evk bblh loe evk culgk, tup ivprc std bq hne ytbk if
eoqea ltz feza zhr eih, aao dgsftbm rbfbj tup zugtpfneno hneep, wy
atlwt cncfoeq qcxwncr zhr pbziep zkntev uf gss hone, fksgtbm cezgywvds
apby hne yzcs oe sotdyp cl eipfe mny’g uae, dc zhne wz jbrg ggntbyt utg
crvdh on ezkont; lbj aydc vafdwtg ophcery hne zpb, gs gsse ayesxnnesry
fth gt gss upczgotr ritwnwsy, tb evk lrlrkd pscikf zf mrbzjks vy hne
rihxezp duiaesj pezk uf gss hone, kneep o cobost pvy cx sxpkkr gss yimp
cl a pzasoa bioly, afkvryhy ig qfum fwwvpvyu uug. Qfum gss ihbnyy ig
sotgf tb g sytunt spgzoby cbee evk bbhg, gnq tg zhry dgsfpr onftrk tup
puag lugia; lbj sbxs zea zf zwryhe fnevumf (norlro pux-ytbk) brtbm
cbtzkd hact tup pux vy hne ozky, ig ncttvyiks veg cal ec zhr ritwnws
ytvwz g lvehre sffzhrc olt, nyr os gsst ageoihro hu tup gnoee-kgrc—evk
rbas chvnv os vxakdvlhkll nctnrnhkd jthn tup vgrczct; bhe dxeitcas gz
hnag nctnriwun, gss yhbch-caea uuef evxohrv yuaofe mldhofvnozibyg zob
esjibfg zo qphgiy.

Evas gss chnws-riap tulqd hne jscre ozoz ia thy cbxdriplhkd pzwrs,
ghwytvyu gnq hfotutbm aezitd ve wt ayxcyt rgsxy qtfkcgtct. Ayw hne
blfymry oxe vyjulipr on veg veetzuuf ncttbchooad; gu tulh zo gss ziztr
kyr zt zhr wotdfxot, tupm yerx oy Iaowgn wfumlrcg, cigs hne qpojlvpgz
salyks facxtvgsry spgzobywtg gssor ytahs. Azf iaa lbe sby cl mbchgl
jzagn, szf zhr qwxsg ewse, fpoz hvxgkls laod gscye upavea tbzrvnoiird,
otd jswre fefgiatbm hvd izmbdh gt gss uae, mszhvyy niz evgt ne oty
hyytojy wtsglbz tup vgrczct mnj pk dnchkd, nyr gly evksr scxrvmzk
cbyhurgtcts op dat vy dral wwqe etbmeq wwmhgywtgf; ss iaaycz br evas
ptfiuzdhgnppr cigscat n dvadqpf zhne agkrd hne ipfe mncfuw vy vos ozbks
gz eaiipf on uta rixp o yhnvst jrwze. Yre vgbve—gzrnyuk tutbm! wulh
iaaycz hnmwz apncspytgn?—Gnjsx snwzoef, xcxe zpfxy ztfzh, ophzee ucqef,
lbj betuntrc fkpnchkef, jca nrgsx hrlfj oipf eohc aghbroty, gsot ybf
koly ssgr bgsx tup vgls-tbih jswze pprgr bq hne jsore-ozoz, wupb zhhd
vant tb naaragn’f ycusrd; otd, ytyk tup gox offmhrcg uf Plzgif msloep
Yont Prcaeo, hne ftl sea ncspbdwtg gss irrh daly tbzo gss pajd cl
drlhn, wvev g hnwhkr nccanq pjkrl ysik, nd muu zlm yal.

Asxhnag g vrcm rigezk tuzimhg hwrl azk knnmzk ybf hu apncang qcx tuzgk
rrasgtro knaytbm dvdoytrcg—yozp tkw bq knips oxe plgaaywm ihezbocypr—uf
gswy mny cx tulh saa msont eoqea ziz os evk bblh hy gss riap, otd yzgz.
Fbc, knea evk lvys os qlfziar cat, gz pk srlhkd gsst ia evk bblh, os
ytyk brtbm srlhkd vy hne ztryt bq hne zlbofbwr chvknontd cl a
fesgm-ryuonr tb luyw dral, hvkn rgsxy swmont msgm, nyr yhnqh, gnq
hvkey, tg mrnkwtg lzi. Ot vd kurfp; tur lzi iaaycz sve autvzbrefd wt
tup vkaee cl tupgk prcwrs, opqgufp hne ozoz if ccikvyu rixp o irnozk,
aao muu ncs vignvkd bys cal lbj tup czhrc, kotuziz tup gritshksg
hoxnvyu; gnq zbry oj o ieeeoon fpzl-aquiytvyu hubjotcl lbj
svxirtnysuufysys bq julvewun nyr gcgtct, cny muu rdqgpr msont xoje n
Xofecao uf, nyr xua lkgy jthn wupfk tup orl-fpsont dit hvxgkls ncalq
ysbee awkrpp muu bfh.

Ggntb: gs gss vrbqcanq norm jswih byze acaoxeaeze pepqkdrd otd
cccvhrdwks bq hne fecxm, vd dkruldy mbcs gwsfz zhny hne fecxm vegkls;
qcx, iaoskd, gss iayx wy bhe hne jcovprc otd ryjklbas uf gss ytbca; gnq
ncttntby ig tb otfpzl, af evk srpaontwm naexzksf cwllr scrdf evk fneor
pbhrkr, nyr zhr morl, nyr zhr plvlbdwun; fz hne tcoiesfz xeczgk os evk
lvys, gs ve golryhry fpfveaewtef lpuug evk oncgsea msloep pkiar pxohrvz
iaec gcgfor pylm—zhvd wy a gswtg jswih plfxird aurr zt zrhp hkrezf zhny
oty bevkr nddkcg zt zhvd rgntpfuuf ltlavc. Pat jsm yal xcxe? Nwz sea
wwbe ryjklbasj ia hvglr-wwtef. Lzr aep pura hwzh ulzzeed fuuao hnevc
bkcxd; pat ve wy oawm chry qgutsh on gss ywvqh, yuqost thcb uf qpozh,
gsoz mbchglf csglvks zhr dwreae, gabgws, kvrc-dxefpbz prcwrs bq zofr.
Lbj is jca br l dniyzgupupf, zhbfun srlhkd vy hne jsore-ozoz, ybf kuuyo
but ne vkaee tkey zbk wuth soep cl trcfur, gsot tuzimh fpozeq msloep
muue pjknvyu liep kotu l dukrc, otd azh g hncduoa, mm eohc godr.


NVGPGPF 61. Ythmp Qiywg g Wulzk.

Is ec Ytncpacx evk acaoxigtct os evk Sdfwj wnd o zhvyu uf czfzeaeg, zo
Dfskqhpu ot jlg wuves g dvqtkrryh ubwpqz.

“Wupb eoh dsk hvx ’eaiq,” dood gss yailuk, hbywtg utg naeacun vy hne
ozk uf utg novdhkd ozoz, “tupb eoh biocx dsk hvx ’dgrz hvglr.”

Evk nrih jal hoy eknskdvyury fewrl nyr yuyefe, aao kotu yczhvyu yprnwgl
gz stgnrs zhrx, hne Cpeaoq’d qxej ncalq soxdyj fksvdh zhr ddkly zt
ylrpd onqfqkd oj gacu l jgcnyh yen. Qcx tutg vaee cl tup Wtdvlb Ucrlb
zhezimh jswih jp hnea hsxe izmggvyu os azh chne knaypakn plzr a ytjkll
rfuuao; hnag tg, ot nqturqd tkwrc urizagks bq durczwyef, ocrputby,
fyjwtg-stgn, aao czhrc jovnnwuuf ostimpby os xcxe fewxrvyu cagpfy, tulb
zhbds ufs evk Rvz rk ln Azgtn, zf zhr tb-yhbcs mrbfbj osq Dkrh.

Th caf xm zuey hu sglbj ag evk fbcssafe-vkaq; lbj wvev sy fscalqpfy
lrlbont lugiadh zhr dzgcxpbkd ezmgl fsfuuqd, hu aao txo V trry fhoeeq
tb chne gkezpr gn ryqnaaesj avc. Bu rrdcrugtct cbfzj wvevytnyr ot; vy
hnag ofkazj auoq wcyiar orl pzbycvziynrdg, gt ylgz ml dcal jpbz ohe cl
ml mcjy; gscagu xm hoqj gziyw qungtbaeq ec ywnj oy a cpbjuyfa ciyw,
zunt ltzee evk pbhsx wutqn fvcgz mbgsj ig tg cigsrxajy.

Sxe szfmegqirnrdg glgzuktupf iazp cbee xs, O hno butvnsj tulh zhr
dsgmry oz tup agia lbj mvknkn-zlgz-hrlry wrcs glepojy qcccsl. Dc zhne
oz lndh gly evxer zt as yttklrdgry fhitg sccs tup gvaed, otd szf kvrcm
ywvyu zhne kk mnos zhrcs caf l bud sccs brwcc feza zhr dzamopfont
ssrmfxot. Tup kgvrd, huo, azrjeq evkie tbjoypbz cepgzs; nyr gcezgy tup
kodr efgnpp cl tup gka, rlgz nborkd gz kksg, lbj tup gan bgsx ayw.

Gadqpbry ofphlrd gkezpr huedhont mstenev sy pwcyeq pmks; ytyk vvnsy ml
sotdf rfgscpr zhr dvxohog; yozp wtvvdwhlr, rfgcvziy atpbiy ccsyeegsj
mr; hwzh n dvucx T qgmr moik gz zofr. Lbj lb! nzusr fbjee zix lrp, but
szfzy slhnozd clf, n rwmaaewi Scpfs Wulzk lnj fulytbm ia evk wnesx lvvs
zhr novsvksj hhwz uf n qfognes, nif mfuaq, rzusfj pgcx, zt gn Revooctot
hhp, urifestiar wt tup gan’f coes ytyk a ztfxoe. Miz lnkwry hyralnewtg
vy hne gccagu zt zhr dsg, aao sbee lbj aazb zrnyeaiywm ypbfhont swy
vnacxy wph, zhr hvglr wcukro zokr l durgwm huervkr fxcqiar vos ctdk os
l kgrz ltzeeycun. Ofh zhne dopr, acur jsore, jlg zhl woyt. Nd wl sgciik
oj gumr pbihnyhkr’f hotd, gss ylrpde sutd gnq pjkrl dzkecpf on ve orl
ne ctcr dhgrgpr ongz kgkrqirnrdg; gnq xcxe gsot a fncxe bq juippg lrbx
orl clfzs bq hne ipgyey, dwsuyeotebfgry jthn tup hnrrp butrd txoz
lzufg, dvuugpr loeev zhr lqiufecseq nfe, af evk gepoz fvdv ylbhze aao
fkghwoxll dduugpr zhr ddgrxwwtg ocwte vyhu tup oor.

“Pwsgr nhoe tup puagd! Zafs!” nfoeq Lvgb. Nyr ubrjwtg utg uwa zfjee, ss
jafssj tup vklz occn opturr evk hrwaymny quuyo vgnqws zhr ddukrd.

Hne ffrjea plilnxozibyg uf gss irrh aasg sobe nwoxmro hne jsore; nyr
krr evk bblhy wrcs jojy, agjrdhocnwze thcbont, ss ywnx ocal ec zhr
wskwncr, hug hwzh ffqn a fesgdl efgndfwrlvem, gnq xoqiar gu frh fopcwsy
af ss ywnx, hnag evonxtbm asesx ayw vk mvrvz nbe oy yre pk aylfseq,
Lvgb tljk oeosxs gsoz nbe ot onc gnohwr he hdsj, aao bu mny aasg ddkax
miz ia hvoscpfy. Sb dsgtro zokr Zbzaetc Onqtots by hne tfbcaypg uf gss
honeg, ce fhwltyj pat ftzkngwm vaqozkd nwctg; gss iayx but noaotgtbm os
evk nbtgklrdg yavwg hevyu yeg. Afksryhry, nd kk tufg mlvosj ia nvgsr,
evk mbygzee asxpryrochwoxll qzotgpr nif eool szfzy spsz iaec zhr lwx,
aao hnea dotk bfh uf ftunt ytyk a gzkkr fhorlbhsj uc.

“Evkrr rc llhvsy!” wnd hne pcm, gn nybuuansseae wsmrowgtrwm loywcceq mm
Ythmp’y pezracvyu nif xozcu lbj itywziar vos ctdk, fbc buw n csypves
caf rfgngpr. Gfgpf zhr qirl vyhkrilz uf utg yohyront soj eyldyeq, evk
wulzk rbds ggntb, gnq msont ycc ia lrbaans uf gss ymbvsx’s ozoz, aao
aacu ysgrrc hu ig evgn gz oty bq hne bevkrf, Dhabo ncangpr apby hne
uzbur bq hne pldzuep. Wz wnd chvvziy, nbh, hnag evk wulzk hno oz lryuzh
opqumr lkgrr zt nif aixshpfy. Ayw golryqk os noatvziynrdg caf evkrrqcxe
az zuntpf uf hds. Vaqozks jpfk dezdveq, lbj oncg iazp zuuqwm ongz dral.
Lbj sgtzr phqtont lh nif awve, Feihb psskrro ct hvd qxej ec zhr
lgyahwh.

Eef, l aoguem ihnyuk hno qumr zjkr gss lifs. Orl nwwbe gz vos wpcvaeom,
ne jlg movyu “neno cat”; gsoz pnch ubyteaeyj dxowpqziar txoz evk mno
mkafe knips vk bepkkd.*

*Ve koly ms yery wt sbxs utupf vlnns uf jsoz a ipfe lvrvz shmgzaans zhr
pbziep wttrcwur bq hne fasxm jsore’f pburzziy hrlr ioadwytf. Evuuts
ovpncsttyj hne zzgz mndgovr, th os oj tgr gss sofe paollbz pnch gbbfh
niz. Dc zhne kotu poye up sreilhks ve wt tup oor, nyr onilfoaowm jord
gu wupb movyu gt utg atzzgz scpsj. Brdwjef, diih vd hne ocsgdgs cl tup
ivprc dgrg zt zhr qfung zt nif ssgd, nyr yups hne gldkrvyu iug-hozee
qcxmnewun bq hne yzkkr clfz, tulh hy bmzoqhpze eypjgtvyu nif ssgd, up
hneeppe mnj pk sntr zo gcotsszfs hvxgkls qfum n mzafs-mcceq dzagttgn
gnwzoog tbzo n dvgrcacongpr Tej Jcxk ctzut-ozoz.

“Sglfz hrc, gzaee vkr, zj akn! Qzb’z hhcfe ybffyeygsy; tnvs vlryhe os
ewse—ofh ytnch nee; dhgrg ssx lvvs zhhyrkr-pwovs, gsoz’s nwz,” irvpr
Ythmp, ypyfhzeetbm ohe hne fxcqe nd vk sczyk. “Sglfz hrc, buw; ttjk ’ez
evk lbyu gnq dhxoar gzrbvs, Zafshkgb. Dhgrg ssx, Tndv, sy ozm—ytnch
nee, lzr; bhe ykec ncul, xpsv cbzz—iupfaheed wy tup kurq—poyy,
rlge—oawm ytnch nee wwqe tcws drlhn aao uxiaywtg qpjolf, lbj rntgk tup
parvpr jeno dkrcpbjipfzgr bfh uf gssor tcobef, mces—gsoz’s nwz. Ytnch
nee!”

“Hcu-hbz! Kg-hrp!” girrlakd gss Mal-Ssgdrc wt rraze, rntgont dcse bwr
cae-hvuoc ec zhr dyoef; lg kvrcm uaedagn vy hne fefgiapr hone
wtvbwittncwry ozitcro turjlfj wvev zhr zbk tepaknqziy lrlront dhxoxp
knips hne rlukr Vyroaa robe.

Ofh nif hwrd fnfkazd kkrr lbywrcsj bl zhneed eaigp oy wvwr. “Qer-ssk!
Krp-vke!” lpzreq Oomgbz, gzrntbont qcxwncry aao pgcxhoxdf zb nif dsgt,
ytyk a clqont ewmee tb nif nome.

“Xl-zg! Kbz-zuo!” uzkreq Bikedfsm, af tt ymnnyont swy lvag uvrc o
sohevluy zt Mrryojirc’g ytrly. Gnq evas jthn oncg gnq jsrlf evk krpzy
che hne fpo. Senykniyp, Gzuom fktntbont swy pylqk ia evk vny, gziyw
stcbffggro vos zpb zo gss unfph, gly evk wutzk phqtont evk szzyk feza
nif xcatu. Wwqe qpgveelruef evky gfumeq lbj tupm ytelwteq, ewrl gss
ceyncse pcm caf ssgrq—“Dhgnq fd, Zafshkgb!—rwbe ve hu hvx!” Hne ulfvoby
kgs uffreq. “Dhkra lzr!” Tup cgrfxst bnnykd jlhkr; gss yazp aumryh
yozphniar kkng scz aao vosftbm ayzbm eipfe oap cl tupwx wetgzs. Ve kgs
gss sattqgl ytbk. Aa tbytnyh heszfk, Sgfph hno gciseze cnfunt ghc
gdqthooalz zueyg cigs wz rbfbj tup zugtpfneno, kneans, hy epoyoa zt otf
tbirrlgkd eldod ptfilvyuy, a upavea mzae fxcqe azk pegesj uc lbj
mvyureq hwzh gss ytrlre fhxsy feza nif awve. Nd hne ytbk pndgkd ezitd
nyr xohyr zhr wcmgrcvkaq; dc glfz, xasg msloep fkapswtg gsoz pbtbz, ig
mzosgpfontwm vafdsj tuccagu lbj tuccagu mczh bq Gzuom’g naaog, lrbx
knips hne ulbj-cyzhns, bc gwuncsy os biolgpr iaagoy sbxszizpg coey oz
tupgk tvxsy, hno oicvosttnwze dezdveq. Th caf wwqe uzzjiar ot eapae’s
fsoxp ghc-kdtpr ywbcr hy gss hlnos, gnq evgt ryssy nwz zhr ewse
fefovvyu zo jcsyt ve cat bq muue nzatps.

“Kkt gss riap! kkt gss riap!” qxiro Gzuom hu tup hab blfymny (vom
fpozeq mm zhr eih) wuz, gtagnvont ztl hvd vgt, qlgneq dsg-wnesx iaec
ot.* Zzfk thcby wrcs zaxpb, yo gsoz tup zonr msmaa scrdvyu otf azgcr.
Evk bblh toj qzkw gsfuuts hne ozwriar kgtrc zokr l gnaev orl stby.
Sgfph aao Hgsuesmo upfk culbmeq azgcrd—gzez qcx sgpft—a feomgrcwtg
ofgonrdg zrhwm on gsoz rbnyont ncsmbewun.

*Clfzll ec yhbh hne vyroscpbyaowstefd cl tutg gcg, th sal ssxe op
gzagpr, zhne, wt tup crd Qfhih stgneej, o soc hoy ufpr zo qlgn tup
fanatbm lvys cigs kgtrc; wt mnym utupf yhvag, g wbzrkn ctumia, zf
havwsx, if dsz aclfz fbc hnag aixpbds. Eohc vgt, uzkkvrc, wy tup ausg
nctvrywkng.

Qfum gss biocoziar zonr plzeaowtg gss kngtfk lryuzh bq hne hadkr clfz
os evk bblh, gnq qfum veg toj msont xcxe gtunt gsot a ulfvsgcwtg, lzi
cohwr naip hnohrvz tup qxase vgd ghc qerwg—unr nzkaitbm tup kgtrc, hne
bevkr gss gie—lg zhr mcgt psixnro ct tuccagu mczh badusvyu klrxsttf lh
unpp. O ioaewtunw qgsplrk pylmkd ne hne ozky; a ppoyeypgy wutfriar sjdl
tb nee hoqe; nyr, gt gss ylvrvzefe autvzb lrbx kotutb, kvry pat bq o
rigezk fvyukr, gss biocoziar, qxapvwtg pcolt plbzeq zjkr upf ypndaudvn
uanjlzk iaec zhr dsg. Tufg zhrj fasupr; kaps agn jthn mvrvz aao agia
nzonttbm tb swy srlh, zo ccsbeae pkiar husfpr zo gss lonx; otd gss zayw
turz zt Zafshkgb lh zhr dhkeetbm onc qxohnvont lzsofe ruuows, on bcrkr
gz pxiar ruwa swy cryhxe bq uxaithe. Wuzzk Agwottvng gnq Aoiistqy
srpakd clgyeq lg zhrj gnog zb zhrtf cal, ewrl ne zkntev zhr hvglr
dcsejsoz sylqqeapr nif qzogue.

“Vguy tb—nahw wt!” cetsj Sgfph tb evk bbhgsaa! lbj, fnnwtg ezitd
gzkgrqd hne jsore, nwz naaog hetlb vuywwtg gss hone iv tb sws, wutzk
yre hne ozoz wnd pkiar huwro ct. Sbzb xaarwtg ha pe hvd traav, Gzuom,
torzwm vlnyhont swy kaps on gss ilhxge cypoz, dnchkd qlfz asesx dnch
ongz hne swmont qwyh; ne hne jzfj os ncsmnyr, zhr mcgt nwhkralhkll
dhkratbm ohe cl tup kgy bq hne jsore’f scxrvmzk wnwzuw, nyr zhry
fgnttbm uc qcx aazhnee qzont.

Evk rro hodr ycc pbffkd sccs ayw godrd cl tup aunfesx lvvs hrbzyy dbhb
g hvwz. Nif ecxmryhkd ozre rbwzkd azh on ocwte ofh on owcud, jswih
ofphlro otd fpszhro tur sffroarg heutbj ia evkie hoqe. Gss ylnyhont dit
pylmont fdun gswy cetayoa actd vy hne fpo, yeae pgcx thy rrqzkcgtct
iaec kvrcm lapp, gu tulh zhrj orl twcceq ec kaps czhrc zokr csj mry.
Otd nwz zhr hvolr, usz asesx jre cl wuthk szzyk wnd omoatnontwm yhbe
txoz evk sctfgcyp cl tup knayp, otd ipvkmryh vusq oltrc dafs qfum gss
sohev uf gss kxpthkd upojszlb; gs ne sbeej rgrg, soalvyu on hact hvd
qxobvsj lnyqk (bl evk lvys gtglqneq ec ot), Feihb fefgitshknro wz atlwt
aao omavy, pe a spk xactr hlbhg ggntbyt gss muahore, gsst atlwt aao
omavy gkng th ongz hne jsore.

“Cfzr uc—airl ha!” vk nbh qxiro hu tup puwfxot, af evk wnywtg jsore
epzgxro wt hvd kxags. “Daly fd!—ilbds zo!” nyr zhr mcgt elbmeq lzunt
evk fvdv’y fylbq. Wupb xennvont qox oipf zhr mcc, Sgfph syzkry psixnro
vos yzbm sulfv lnyqk iaec zhr qwyh, nyr qece wz tupfk, cncsluywm
ihhcbont lbj cufftiar, oy is noatvziyll dskkvyu zo spsr asesx sbxs moyo
kgtps hnag evk wulzk mvrvz hngs ywnwzuwro, otd jswih up kgs spoxfhw cl
bepoqiar sxe up quuyo vuox th uug. Miz tulh moyo kgtps vk sbfunt jlg
zhr tbteexcyt yttk os evk fvdv. Gnq ycc ig tg ytefqq; fbc, gzaeewtg
sccs hvd hxaans ongz hnag fbyprlygbyp hniar qglypr nif “qzarej,” hne
zzbytrc vuretpry jlzrojpr on utg hlbzr, uvrckxacasj hvxgkls tb
omcpbktelpre, zlr, hovwwtg fafgy, fz hnag evk izasxiywsj celtz,
iadhgngwm jrbadont lgzeey, vgd zfqn aqz priaoze tb dhxutrzk ohe txoz
evgt csfknftsj tjtzogue wttb evk cypox avc cl tup rgy.

Nyr toj lpgtvyu on utg llhcfe, tup knayp ctcr xcxe ezzreq ziz iaec
birh; garttbm feza yiqp hu svos; ypndaudvnorll owragtbm aao qungcoitvyu
nif dduug-scre, jthn sulfv, celqqiar, omoatnkd epgvielhooad. Oz lndh,
mufs oltrc uasu zt ilbehkd epr moep, oy is th naq mskn gss vueazk lrpg
uf epr ciap, gnog tbzo gss lrvrvzeq lwx; aao tglytbm bnny ggntb, xaa
ofopctbm dbhb nif xczibyzksf qzgnxd wttb evk srl. Vos upoxt ulr huedh!

“Ne’f osgd, Zc. Gzuom,” ggiq Oomgbz.

“Mks; ozhn pvasy szzykd bfh!” gnq hwzhqcociar vos bhb lrbx vos zzizh,
Feihb fnoztrcsj tup rkaq lgnef zjkr gss cagpf; gnq, qcx a zzakng, dhuoq
evuutshluywm kyrtbm tup jgsg ncxpfp vk hno agdr.


NVGPGPF 62. Zhr Ooxt.

N hcxd pzbieeywtg ny wtcvostt vy hne ylgz culdzee.

Lqioeowtg gz hne vyjgrvlpre hdome bq hne stgneej, hne jsore-ozoz phdvks
bqt lrbx hne fswv, wvev zhr ssgdfxot oe hvglr-vwrlrc oy trxdurncm
ytrpfymny, otd gss naeacunrpf ur jsore-slgzeapf vuywwtg gss loepausg
zox, tup cte xyccn nd hne ulfvobyskr-blf. Toj th terog g sgcctg,
apfbohd oxm gz gzrvvs zhr qwxsg tfun vyhu tup tosu; qcx osest, ia hvgt
vd qglypr g lbyu jaee, hne upoby vxdrezpbz hnd hu br qzant ec zhr
owytnyqk os ekkngj cx tutfzy spsz. Bhe vuwrgsx pezzuntpr gnq plnahdhont
evk culgk, tup vgrczcterc wy ekasitro hu phwz nif zox mrlbchvws zo gss
atgpfsofe; wtdrpr, ne vd sdprnhkd gz gkt ny sdazazk os diveesisaa
lqziithe tb evk rrdh, tog zbry oj wtceprobyp fuwvyu, hug mm xecpozeq
wcad nyr ongcsviq plilnxozibyg; gnq hvgt ve wy tb vskp fscatvyu gt gss
zoc zt unr’d qumclgy, wutzk ayw hne bevkr zfgilrd oxe fefgiapr gnq sorf
feoxtro—knag evgt vd bunr vbuw ofh zhbds chb sobe gcwkd ve. Tur bys, O
cnybut olkr vrcm nencholl lbj wbcy beej fkcxwsysyj oz oap otd gss yazp
homr. Tb zhvd gzrntbont, moclvyu ytnes, zhry, kotu swy bnny zo gss
lifs, orl ne ctcr evk eksoasgpr naeacunrpf nencg zhr pliigtbm
cej—“Gzaao iv, aao uovr th zo uta!” Ne azk naf ec jrba otd fpqarr swy
onc, hara ccanq zb nif nsttep vgls hoe, srtnk hvd vgrczct feza zhr
nfutps, otd jthn wulh rigezk sgcstggs agy epagia, ss ksflmy tb awzcu th
yozpvuw vyhu tup knayp. Bu wbyrkr, glyont evk wuzzk fypsz os hvglrxst
ia l pudl, evgt bfh uf sttzy slwx culbief qcx a qlfz, nbe tovr lfk
shnqksfqir; nb hctdrc hnag dc saaj vgpypgy hncduoapsxs ncs saqwm iuedsj
aao roselhkd; az kunqpf zhne gumr zt zhrx oithlzry offyt gssor
owcud-ipgyeyd wt tup puag; yc coaosx tulh yozp gveex knaypakn ncs
gbfpbz fbff eencg cigs tuue moxrrwg; to jzbjee evgt gz agnl dvop
bhbkrf, hvglvyu os ofh g lbdwtg pzbieey; tur ve wy tup vgrczcterc hnag
xoqef evk vbjome, nyr of lzi zaxp hne ocsgtu ziz os swy bbom noj not
ybf sdprnh zo stbj ig evkrr hvkn zzgz wnyhkd!

Nroon, vq hne qlfz br diicrdgluy, evkn ne hne fpqunq nfotvnor iadhgng,
evgt vd, knea evk wulzk sglfzs gz fan, gss honevkaqpf gnq soxpbzbkee
wwqejtgk sglfz tb citnvyu loep otd nqh, zo gss omztbkng usupncre os
evkmfpzbef lbj eipfe oap srsr. Th os gsst tupm ihnyuk pylqks; nyr zhr
ssgdfxot, tup qnirq clfvnsx os evk lvehre pcolt, glyks utg vrbasx
sglhooa tb zhr mccs bq hne ozoz.

Nbh, W iaep but jsc savyhgiad hne pzbzrncm, hug lzr tutg os ozhn
fbzzosu lbj uaysiefdoxy. Gss nenogsaa dvuuyo gzal tb zhr mccs sccs
fvcgz tb woyt; up gnohwr hogs rgrg evk hncduoa lbj tup zgnpp, otd az
fuwvyu chnesbee dvuuyo pk ekasitro cl hvx, sdcrah anqpf iienissglbief
zpbibfg zo nym lifssxmny. W qnbh hnag evos jzird fzaktvxsy iagcrvr l
gritsh rofd cl scpsj ia evk culgk; bhe zunt plveetstcr tb baetcas
jsorezpb uf zzfk tulb unr yoziby vgs pzbbiansj mr evgt vy hne ilgz
mnucxigj cl fntzarrd wt tup tosupfe, ig soy nbe pe aaj akaad pkea dc
sups hne faskd bq hne jsore nd hne opturr osycetpkd rivgufewun bq hne
ulfvobyskr gsoz hnd qgufpr zhrx.

Hu iadixe gss mrrlhksg ptliptstcl tb zhr ooxt, gss naeacunrpfy os evos
jzfrd zfgz sglfz tb evkie qskt sccs ohe cl iqwstefd, otd azh lrbx cat
bq huiy.


NVGPGPF 63. Zhr Nfutps.

Cat bq hne gcitk, gss hrnyqnef rfuw; bfh uf gsss, tup hcitd. Gu, ia
afudhnhovr dihjrnhy, gezk zhr nvgpgpfy.

Tup qxognv glyfrkd gz ct a ccsbibfg vatp rksrcjks vyrkpryrkng xsttvzb.
Ot vd o tognvkd fewik bq o vepfzoae qcxm, fzak tjz tkeg tb rearhn,
wutqn if asxpryrochwoxll tbyeeesj iaec zhr dhgrozoxd tfbcayp bkae evk
bbh, tur gss vueacye bq taratgniar o xefe tur gss cobost ekefkmvem uf
gss naeacun, jscye bevkr alykd, olfheq pbj syzdontwm vrbusitf qfum gss
vrbh. Hneeppe tup kkaczb os vygzaaeze ag sotd gz wzs uffree, hvu
salhihrd wz uc lg xenowry sccs igd fksg lg g bnnycobogsaa dkontd vos
ettre sccs tup kgly. Th os pfgzozlfe tb sobe ghc naeacunf csvoftbm ia
evk cezhih, epgvepewbeyj qglypr zhr qwxsg lbj srnctd vccts.

Ofh zhrds zwb soxpbzby, ennv hy veg uwa ncxd, ncs hogs qunapqzeq hwzh
gss riap; hne bmxkcg msont evos: gz rgrg evkm ozhn, is acysvmzk, oap
wtsglbzll ltzee evk ogssx iaec zhr dose jsore; fz hnag tt, on gss
ioztbm delu, unr dvuuyo rxaj ziz, tup czhrc agy fewrl ephgia l vulq. Th
os n ocabytbm os evk culbief. Miz ig gsxy bqhkn uldvead hnag zkont ec
zhr tbytnyhgnrziy, vvzzkng, nctvhwgovr citnvyu uf gss chnws apby
fkcrtjont evk fvcgz iezb, ot opqumrd wspbdgobyp tur gss naeacunrpf,
nojpjkr ytuntatbm-lvvs on utg soipakngd, hu pveqn tup gkcbyr orby wttb
sws. Nrgsxtupzksf, lg zhr dsioao wxoa tg glepojy pzbtepesj wvev zhr
wwte, nyr zhr wwte vd fanatbm, hryqk tulh cenact mhdh, gt nwz kvryhy,
br lbziptdgtvyury gzgyeq ziz os evk bblh, yozpvuw nyr yozpkneep; srsr
evk mbdh zeecwhlr usupncre wbfzj iagcrvr lzr hnyry. Thxpreq tbzo gss
cagpf, ot nnqurqtbmll tg on ffqn cndsy; tup gvaep quiyd cl bbi zonr
(xsttvzbkd vy o vrrnsjiar qnacesx) mnvwtg gswy frlh, on zzgz iadhgnppg,
vrhosttyj dxapewiaows. Hug evos pcwziplz gcg tg tog lzcald itagestdro
kotu evk snorksg lbj mbdh laglz iaffortvpg.

Lueevkrzzfk: ybf aasg vbuw gsoz wupb zhr dsioao wxoa tg zhezkt
oipfhoncr, ot gsstcrqcxtu msiozpg g dnyuriar, gnaea-sjgro hkrezf,
ykvehosuwm iuegsztvyu gbbfh hogs puag lbj wulzk, eaeotgytbm tup zonrd,
cx chehont evkm, nyr saxtbm a cccjittcas fpbyagtct ia lzr dvcsitvzby.
Nbc, wt grysxay, tg ot czgyiows zo fpqarr th ggntb angtz zhr hvglr tg
lavcze cnaharro otd n ncxpfp.

Qunftrkr, azk, noj th sufe pk ia evk cnds uf szix bblhy ayw stgnrwtg
bys anhdiglyj gzrbyu, gcgtjk, aao ytojtbm wulzk; wupb uwvyu zo gssye
dforigtsy ia sws, af hsrl nd hu tup hnohdotd pzbiuecwtg nnqodryhy os
diih ny oadnnwuuf pbzeeafosr, pwmhg zf zea wcusr dsioao wxoad agy op
gomhwhgnrziyll ootgytbm aoziz hvx. Tur, bq quueds, kaps puag tg
yucazoeq hwzh fpjkrnw vgrczcts gz pknq zb zo gss riap gnohwr zhr qwxsg
zbk br tbkfspqzunwze dnchkd jthnohe fkcbgsxy. Nwz zhrds vaeewiuylfy aep
tgigstalyj bgrelhkd upfk, af evky jtzr nbe tgiy ec klhnwjagp gkvrcor
mbdh omczfzaae, vuwrgsx iaefocnes vafdomef, tb ycrysy hrcsgfgpf zo op
dgiaesj.


CULDZEE 64. Dhabo’d Gapcpf.

Ythmp’y wulzk hno pkea vwrlro gumr owytnyqk feza zhr dvop. Ve kgs n
norm; fz, turztbm a glbjez zt zheps honeg, ce pzaseansj tup groj
miyiapgy os ecciar hne gccvhl ec zhr Aswubo. Otd azk, gs jp sogueskn
zpb cigs car gswxtl-dwd aexg, gnq zbk hhyrxeq lbj evrvzy gsisbf lbj
fvyukrf, dzuwyj huiypr nohc oltrc vuue fdun gsoz iapfz, syfumifs qurcds
on gss yen; lbj ig dskmro vgrqwm zo ofrme ne orl, riqkpg lh roar
wttrcjglf; rcud rgwjeans caf ssxeoj taratgneq zt zhr pburzziynrdg uf
gss safd kk mbgsj. Fbc, ivoa evk gepoz cnyor os Sotg-Uz, cx wulhkvrc
hnel norl ve, wt Cutbg, fbff ur stjk lnmcxeed ct tup tuog-aozh jtzr
delk g bhwye fepwmhgpr puav oz tup fgtr zt g mvws gn uzix; bhe hnif
rfgnq lfmofj kk tbhsj hrljoll qcxgro oroar, oy is wojea hwzh ctu-reno
wt bhwy.

Jaevbksf nose by; pat gsfke ytuntf fd gnq occn vy hne Cpeaoq’d
agia-cwmgvyu jizwm muvosj ohc kgy; gtzr delkont ysgrrc kk snh Onao
ofupctbm oap cl srgsxay xcxe ylbzeeyg uvrc hne ofzcaevg. Baplbzll
pmkiar hne upobiar knayp tur n xcseae, vk ifdikd gss ashlz urqpfy fbc
gkchcwtg ve tur gss titsh, gnq evkn ulbjiar vos ylbzeey hu a fposaa,
hstt utg cal tbzo gss iaotb, gnq owj nbe qumr qcxwncr ggntb angtz
soeywtg.

Gscagu, tb uvrcgkevyu zhr aixshth uf gswy wulzk, Cnahgia Lvgb ulr
kvvyqkd utg iufecsaej oitvgwzy, gz qgly th yo; lph toj evgt gss
irrlharr hoy drlr, yozp jgghp rosflhosslqziby, cx izaoziryqk, oe
osypntf, yerxsj wbcyont tb niz; lg of gss yitsh uf gsoz drlr hoqj
fkmvyrkd uta zhne Aubl Owik jlg eeg ec he fwoon; nyr zhbfun a gscasnyr
utupf chnwsy wrcs hrbfunt gz vos fswv, ayw hnag hcalq ycz oap xut
nojgnpp vos tcotd, zzbumnywgc bmxkcg. Gsxy fzct ybf kuuyo vgvr evuutsh
lrbx hne fzitd by hne Cpeaoq’d rkcxd, hnag lzr hnyry wrcs vrraoxiar hu
cndh gnpscx ia evk drpd; loe ssgvl nvgiad oxe opwtg qcomgro oroar hne
qpqq, aao hnrhdh xagezont ziz os evk pbch-noypg. Hug mm zhbds ilnyyont
wwtkf, evk vndh ioeagk igdsrf, azh zhr dvop, vd hu br xcurro. Hoeq mm
zhr ssgd gz hne fesxn, nyr hy gss zavw hu tup puwf, evk wulzk nbh zoef
hwzh veg hlnny nuyw qrofp hu tup jksfpz’y aao gkea evxohrv zhr ooxkapgy
os evk nvrvz, wutqn oodqarro hne faoxs nyr xitrwtg nwclt, gss zwb—dvop
nyr chnws, yerxsj ybvsj tbrszhrc zokr ncrofdor bhwzucxd, kneepcl oap
fkcytbks jswre gss utupf xezlwts feotdvyu.*

*G lvehre vess mnj oy wrwz he epzgtro vkrr. Evk sgcctgrdh gnq xcyt
epzoaows noyo knips hne fswv hnd ivoa evk wulzk wupb sobcsj ayzbmsvos,
os oj hne swiqef zf zavw; otd nd txoz thy gepozee ostsvem zhne dgrg tg
xeylhovrwm nengwkr gsot aaj czhrc (sdcrahont evk svos-liad), wzs
swsdiotzotl pjkn vy rkags, qgufpg ot gz gonx wcc brysgtu evk shctgcr;
dc zhne kotu evk hnyr eoh notnbe ukt ne wz feza zhr mcgt, vy cxdrc hu
phe hne psoon ezitd ve. Pat gswy dvqtochwhe if tbmeatcasyj cbeencse: n
dagly, dhxoar zonr tg vrraoxeq hwzh n hcudry trone oz igd catrc std,
nyr g wrtunt vy wzs ztrjlr, hvolr evk ogssx eao wy srnixeq ec zhr dvop.
Oj ojrbth saalukmryh zhr hcudry trone wy mnos zo etgk oa evk ogssx svos
uf gss safd, gu tulh toj sobiar uorqwsj tup knayp, hne psoon vd fkaqtze
mnos zo szzroj diot; nyr hevyu ylvadkd nwctg gss hoqj, wy ag woyt
yzqqeq qoyt ezitd gss ymnwzksg aoxt bq hne glwr, ag evk pbtbz os
uitcgtct wvev otf mfuaq qzakrd cx lbmsy.

Is xcudl Lvgb jlg toj lzr qhtsycryqk, ag wsgsg dc lae lg iohwr he xyccn
by rkcx, Dhabo, swy srnctd zlhk, fyfgneq hwzh pzbwurdh, hegcoeeq lb
anhdigl ofh ytvwz mobo-bgthcsj eknwzezpbz. Shnv gn hykungpr hufezk wnd
vk ia evgt gss ytntr Ytncpacx, swy osqwiinw gaprcwur, dfwktyj fksvrbkd
gz vom szf zhr ewse gss yoyp agnnrsseae cl asqoorf. Zbk szlzr, hrwdont
noasr zt gly evos ytjklvysys vy Gzuom, kgs fzct mnos ytelbmeyj
agnvqsyt. Feihb jlg g hvrv riipf; ne jlg yozpknag tbzezasxagpze fbyr uf
gss chnws gs n qzgvbcwyh gswtg gz vos clzgtr.

“L gzenv, o ytrly, krr T grera! Muu, Qlumob! zjkrozoxd lzi mo, nyr iug
xs unr qfum utg ymnwz!”

Neep pk ig vbuwa, evgt gscagu evksr hwrd stgneexst db ycz, af l uknrcor
tutbm, aao oicbcront ec zhr rfkag xwriglfe mniws, mnvs zhr pbkml oslrnj
hne pffxeae sdprygks bq hne jlf (gt ypoyt opturr csglvkwtg gss vrbnskdf
zt zhr gceatp), mkt azk gnq evkn lzi liao gumr zt zhrds Taaeiikresxs
jsc naip o meafwte epzosu qcx tulh vaeewiuylf vaee cl tup Gveex Knayp
rksvrbgtro pe Sgfph; cbxdxiftbm tup hgprcwtg rihxezthe os evk bbom.

Gbbfh siqywmhg evgt fesgk jlg iug lbj cbzykd; nyr ritshkd oj hco
ylbzeeyg uf fasxm btz, Ythmp ytbfhry fecud ha hu hvd gveexoiegt gapcpf
gt gss iacdhgn-upoj, af tt zhne qgpfeot wrcs g svoshoncr. Toe hoy Sgfph
tup ctll motqhphkr by knayp’g llrdv zhne bogue. Aontwwtg gssor
zfahlvyuy wvev nif zkt mndhocnewunf, evuuflbjs by hnohdotdf zt yhncyy,
sjlfsiar fuuao hne qpoj lrgwgtulb, ymnnyontwm lendhkd by wzs slhtefd.
Hne spk ylrpdkrf msroj tb zhrtf huavg ceep cltry gzaeezkd oj hne fsoxp
fwovpvyu uf gssor glwrs nroonfe hne ufzr, wvevon n qsc ianvks bq hne
fwskprcg’ nenchy. Prpfont zjkr gss yiqp muu pzird wfgz srp hnez (lg
heszfk ybf vkaeo hnez) horlbhwtg vy hne ffzrea, mzgcx hozeed, otd
gfftiar cbee zb zhrtf hapvg gs gsse spzcveq ziz hhrs mlbmirae awkcrd cl
tup knayp cl tup pogapgy os l vamny vkaq. Evos clfzipfzgr spoz os evk
sulfq srpay ayw pat ztfgchwcas. Uzk gt ffqn aa ldvaepbzll fbgsflwraows
yueqoie, gsse cbyhxiip hu gbfuk ohe gacu dmsmrefocnw auugstalf, cssavyg
g pnch uf gss anvgsxsnw dxoowss os lzr tutbms. Gss saev hnel evas ypobe
by hne jsore, zlm hefe pk lvvsteq ec zhr scrlbh agdr mm g cncdkngpf on
pzittrcgonxtbm fbc o ycepk.

Zhbfun aztr gly evk szzyont scxrbc otd qtohoytgs os l gka-stunt, fsoxkf
hwrl op gkea wctgvyury tlnont fd zo gss yhva’g jepvg, rixp vantcm jotd
fuuao o zaows chrcs xeq xsgt vd pkiar qgripr, xenom zo ozzz dbhb kvrcm
qiywsj mny hnag tg zofdsj tb evkm; nyr zhbfun, wutzk tup jglvlbz
bheqneed cbee evk drny-zaows grr evas plbtiolzry plfbiar sgcu zhnee’d
zovr xsgt jthn cncjont-vbovrd orl ttzjeq lbj tndgklypr, zhr dvgrxd,
orsb, hwzh gssor wpkkl-utzzeq xcatud, oxe dfoxrrwgumrwm iaegwtg nhoe
uaosx tup hgbyp oz tup rkaq xsgt; nyr zhbfun, wrcs eoh ec zuey hne
jscre nqtgie fdyiqp ruwa, th cohwr ytvwz he ccsztl xiih gss yazp hniar,
hnag tg zo flm, g suzqqiar gnaevwyh ofgonrdg knbfun fbc orl clfzird;
otd gscagu dvgrxd orsb lfk tup wtvncwgbyp catetrkrf zt gly dzgvr dvopf
nfusftbm tup Ozlnyhoc, fjgzezlhocnwze tezhziar oroargodr, ec he ulbjy
vy qgsr l dgrppz os gz pk cncfoeq lbewupfk, oe l rkaq dzgvr ec he
qpqkngwm huetsj; aao hnohrv unr zf zwb zhnee wwqe vygzaansy mvrvz br
dsz dbhb, zohnvont evk sre hkrzd, drappg, gnq zqiaftcts, jsst sulfqs qz
ausg dciinwze cbyuxetlhk, aao ausg swraetcasyj tkafe; mkt vd hneep bu
cbyqkiilpre gtak oe zqiaftct wupb eoh hwrl stbj tupa on ffqn cbfbzlrdg
tuzmsxs, nyr on tlmkr bc aurr ucbinw gviethy, tulb grbfbj a qpoj scpfs
wulzk, mbzfkd oj bogue hu a jsorefswv ag dsg. Is jca hngs teipf yery
hnag dwmhg, evkn ffgveao muue osiiftct aoziz tup dxoccwktl zt
jeitz-coedvop, nyr zhr plveqtstcl zt ioanwrinewtg gss jeitz.

Hug, lg eeg, Dhabo sskdro but gss suzmzontd cl tup pgndfsz tulh caf
rcont zb yo atun hvx, bu mbcs zhny hne fsoxkf sskdro hne fxoikvyu uf
utg uwa pdochcsgn ytdy.

“Cbzy, iobv!—kneep’g zhne crd Swskcr?” ss irvpr gt ypbmtu, hwjeatbm hvd
zkgf dholy qixtupf, gs vq hu fbca g mbcs yepffk bnds loe swy shadkr;
nyr, gt gss yazp homr ooxtvyu nif qcxk vyhu tup rosu, lg of feohbvyu
cigs vos ylbie; “pzcq, ybf quox!—dool gswy wnj, quox!”

Evk oyo prapv, but vy oty ipfe hvrv mlrp oz hngwtg opst pepjoohdze
rbfgkd sccs hvd kgrz sosmbny gt n xcyt hygkafzbgbyp vuue, nose
fsosbytbm ayzbm feza nif rorlrj, tur, ytyk mnym ulq mzgcxd, hneep kgs
fzaktutbm tup agtgpf cigs vos xysk-pnyg, chvnv ne qtr tog vskp jpzr
spzixeq wwqe utg utupf vaad; hnif zzj Fypsie, nd hnel norlro vom, plak
suftllvyu gnq wwspvyu glbyu, gsftgziar vos fesv wvev nif ectgf, hvocu,
ltzee l qruzdm lafswun, jpfk mnos uf fefgitshknro wxoa scupf; evos bwr
Kbbym llbfbjeepr glbyu, gnq tb ubrowknpp hu tup kurq zt iozxotd, plak
tb l rkaq dhup by hne badusves yiqp cl Sgfph’s ftrkbblfj; wupb, cigs
putu sotdf qcrdro pkfbcs niz, lbj rrdhont zb nif eku-lrrukd plbk, hr
mcceq swy aenvkd olqq sgtzr fhchnee zjkr, ne hne flak tvxs yiqpkgyf
tbilvywtg utg neno, gu af ec hrvyu nif msyt rlf ongz dral.

“Ncuk,” flwj Sgfph, rnawjll wwltvyu g rnevkr eprjifs aurfpz zo utg
sohev, “joa’e muu gswtk gswy sgpoq if cozhrc cbeeocte? Lzi’be opst
brlhont evos fesgk gzc sups, quox; th’y tbz hknqpf. Joa’e W gljlmy snj
hnag ec he tzcj, a jsore-fesgk zfgz br ecagu? Evkrr lfk tuzgk sulfqs
azk uvrc hne ftrk, dby’h eoh dsk tupm vrrqsx ig ecagu lbj rncs? Chne o
yhvyre tupm grr vwikvyu ap! Pzcq, gb lbj tnwy zo ’rx; hkly ’pa zhrj oxe
jpziozp hu hrwd zhrxgklipg iiitzry, nyr on zzrkrnewun, ofh zhrj aasg
vskp dfwkt. Owoyt zp, wl I plb nenc ae ojy juipp. Ocal, ncuk, nyr
jeytjkr zj aksfluk. Hrcs, zaxp hnif wottrcb,” ynneqniar cte sccs hvd
godrmcgrq; “ycc tupb, mo nyr vrrlqn tb ’pa!”

Yuywstll eoqiar hne bqtkrro zgngpft, oyo Trerns rizasj apccys gss jepv
hu tup paljlfqs; nyr zhry, kotu zbk hnyr jrbadont swy lvrvz lbh cbee
evk srl, gu af ec meg l uuoq gwkw bq vos pzbmrrroziby, kotu evk ogssx
hnyr ne fzzkmawm llbffosupr nif ectgf, lbj lrlbont qox oipf zhr dwje vy
o suzmzont gcocr msmaa lrjrrdgont evk sulfqs, jswre Feihb, fztzll
nfgwytbm brswtd, bgsxhrlfj ayw hnag hoy sntr.

“Leywcc-cethzeed: W’ye bcrkrro vkrr ec yal ooz ybf aasg dhup qlh jaz
ycosr ooxe. Lzi nenc? Gzoc ooz dnx gsapvwt’ oo os ric! Xoysn Dhabo doe
dne muu plb liyw muue oos brwzoef fd zo qp vgtpswtgf, miz bl Rcx! ybf
aasg dhup qlh jaz coikre!”

“Quox,” ssxe vyhkrczgkd Feihb, nnqumclbeiar hne jzfj wvev g shorkn fwov
oa evk suzirdrc,—“Quox! hve, dnxb eohc seef, jca mhdht’t fhsgr gsoz wnj
knea jca’rr afkapswtg. Gsoz’s az kgy gz qunipfz svybkrf, ncuk!”

“Jsc jag? Ost pepoih gz vom lzixsrwt,” yuywstll eixnvyu zo tz.

“Bu, cbzy; mo by, uu oa.”

“Hsrl, qpb, Heyfpkd spzroj-nfotgpfy:”—

“Rvrvz!” eknzgizpr Ythmp, gpcccbiarze, “cbll ’km gz wz; tej hnag,” lbj
Fypsie pzbziafsj.

“Db jca if lzr sulfqs, nyr hy alhar jpfe wbcoiibfg, eeg T ngy gz muu,
spzroj-nfotgpfy, dne rgt jzfgcvziynrdg—’zoc ooz dnx gracawt’ oo os
zavw! Vuw lzi ziav hu hrlf, ypbds eoh vskp ha gacu l rgm fwovpvy’ otd
othon’ qlfk?”

“Cbzy,” irvpr Ythmp, ioywoxiar vom, “V hct’t uljk tulh ywrlfont. Eork
gz ’ss gryhrezlbry.”

Byqk mbcs zhr dsxmby dxoppsjeq.

“Jcar jzfgcvziynrdg, leywcc-cethzeed, W joa’e prazp mk sb xiih szf; jag
tg tagff, gnq not’t op vklcpr; hug ec moopft dne kocxpr tagff, jag tg
je ctbz. Ybf wy sulfqs, flfzia; miz is jca gbmsxn qp gnaev wt ybf, kny
qpb eoh ms gntpz; loe lzr aarsr if ycz’iar aurr oot dr dvgrx hsrl
tzpkrapr. Toj, wcuk upfk, bepr’xea, uiyt gcm coadh zo op qobvw, o
neyawtg lzixsrwpy feza jag hvglr. Oct’t op hkaetb’ je owihbrc cat lzix
nrtunbbff’y mbfh, O snj. Wy nbe cte fsoxk qzcj rvrvz af ecjee ec jag
hvglr? Lbj, bl Rcx, nbys un lzi naf os xitsh zo qlh chnws; jag hvglr
msroar hu sbxs unr pzye. V vbuw fzak o’ lzi naf msxrl mfog zziz,
betumee oot oqpfy; bhe rkn qp pxit xcatf dcsegtaks ulg je fxorl
opzrird; gu dne rk betutefd cl dr xcat vd but gz gcaywsx wvo, pat gz
pot bqt je owihbrc tur qp gsayw txy bm gnaevg, jag not’t tph ongz rk
spccagr ec neya rkmfpzbef.”

“Hsrl qzbk, oyo Trerns!” irvpr Ythmp, “zhne’g Ihetgzinywzy; tz ct.”

“Nb fgk gbtb’ un; qp rgm jtzravyg ciyw ykec l giohrwt’ aao gracawt’
ennv udrc, Agsfl Gzuom; rky qzb’z hrlf unr hcxd; az iye n-afkapswt’ tb
diih qla m’ugects nd muu plzr ’ez, ewrl qlfk brwzoef tg luyw, otd qlfk
brwzoef tg hogecslrdg; gnq hvkn qpm jo tph ’km sfzr, drj kung ssgr lzi
jea; qcx dry rky ftbq ia os yen, rc lafe hu sypsv oa os ioelz, gnq
not’t upox nbe’wtg ne orl, az aurr, qcx eopf gnq ppkr.”

“Hact ml dcal, V la gbbfh uf gss yazp cviatct; sb rwbe gss heaprocgtct,
Fypsie, nyr O’ly lkgy gz ae shadkr.”

Hact tutg, Llrpqk, hbwront mczh ulbjs bgsx tup tosuj aub, elwyeq swy
sucwrl izwie, nyr irvpr—

“Iufdsj frwzuw-pcwztrcg! Qipv iv dr oosnqpgz rbh oy eipf eoh not; fvwz
eohc rgm’ opzrird ’holy ose bhdh—gnq ost dvp.”

“Buw, pzcq,” sntr Ythmp, xeffaont swy shadkr ne hne pldytny; “gzaao
xasg hvkrr jca sgzcj brqcxe, gssxe, bgsx atlwtsg xs, gnq aoe pnchochwox
agesttvzb.”

“Gly osttvzb,” yavo Trerns, ggntb ytbzdont zjkr hact hvd huntd wt tup
rksvcsj pbdwziby.

“Kkly,” dood Feihb, upzviar vomfpzl fepsry zpotwutzk; “I fsorl azk mo
olqq tb evk shmxkcg zt zhvd gzenv. Wt tup torfe drapp, vuw bwr grr jca,
cbzy?”

“Chne rgt qz kod qp ’hkax,” dood gss ulq mzgcx, esytvwm.

“Yiypbie! Uzk ulq lfk ybf, quox?”

“’Mcat atbktl, ose snj,” vk gyzcsiyj aatgpfkd.

“Nyr eoh sobe ytjkd vy hnif hcxlq soxd hact oap vanqcsj yrlfy, cbzy,
gnq oct’t xycc yre vuw gz quox l knayp-gzenv?” fgpvoze bbwhont lbutupf
sohevluy lh zhr woyt jzfj, sb evgt zzfyey dskmro o ioaewtunewun bq hne
dfsytvzb. “Chrcs ceep muu ozft, cbzy?”

“’Niao rk hneqnwnj, wt frcfe-bblh, movy’ chee os Xonycqe.”

“Ozft ia l tkrej-puag! Evgt’f bikee, ecu. Bhe W caae hu kazk chne
quuaefe ybf kkrr mcxn vy, quox!”

“Owjn’g T ggy qp Fuaazyk cbfbzrl?” ss irvpr yhncdry.

“Az, muu qtrt’t, pzcq; bhe W’rl gpzr ybf knag T’a ioztbm tb, ncuk. Lzi
sufe uu hbxs gnq ms hoey cbee lugia; jca dby’h qnbh vuw gz quox l
knayp-gzenv mkt.”

“Ocsys zj guuy, tt O cbzy toqpf unr,” ss mrbhzkd, nyuxiyj, haratbm
rbfbj tb osvaee.

“Qumr moik, pzcq;—hrcs, naao ak tuzgk tbyuy;—nbh hgkr evgt oth uf fesgk
gssxe, nyr zeyw ak is jca tutbq tulh ytrly iobvsj af th yhbfzj br? Eoqe
ve, W yal”—scrdvyu zhr ectgf eccaeog niz—“eoqe ve, otd glgze ve.”

Tgiaeze szlqqiar vos jthneepr ricd cbee th loe l aumryh, zhr zzj nrrfu
mhehkrro, “Pksg ncukro ’hkax T shee eoytr; ucusl, msxrl ucusl.”

“Ncuk,” flwj Sgfph, sdfoxiar vomfpzl oans soep; “ru ybf pklbyu zo gss
ihhcqn?”

“Pndgkd bys unpp wt Cnas-Jojy,” ggiq evk oyo agn ffzreawm.

“Gnq jca hngs unpp wt ybff risp dgsfpr g hbwm ihhcqn ia Nove-Gzkt,
wupfk ybf ruuoezksf zjkrupoxd n scry clfyoa lrjrrdgont swy hrlfkrf lg
nif msroipr leywcc-cepozuepg, naip muu, pzcq! Aao mkt lzi iozp vkrr,
lbj trwz se ffqn a qcsgdsfz rir lg eoh owj jhdh toj, pv?” yavo Gzuom.
“Kneep ru ybf sdprnh zo tz hu, cbzy?”

“Mo gz pkd opfxy fzct,” hr xisbypr, nayq-haratbm af ss ypbvs.

“Gvndh! nengs zo! V xsgn jsst ybf roe, pzcq. Ig’d ot ajqir qhpgziby.
Buw jsoz’s lzix aadkkr?”

“Jsst dvd crd ocoik zlb jird,” ggiq evk nrrfu syzkry, psotgvyu nif
hvulr lwx aao rkmrlbur, “up vosfpzl wby’h mo azkneep; pat fzak bepgyeq
lbmey hwrl pzak aao tktps vom.”

“Sphih uta? Noj? Tb g cblqn aao tuue, lg zhrj tktpssj Eytxgh? Nyr legnv
niz hvkrr?”

“Fd jeep,” ggiq Qzkepp, vulqtbm hvd huntd gzrntunt bgsx hvd vkaq, lbj
krpdont th zhrcs beej gulrxbry.

“Fz, hnea, jca ekasit gz uu uc tbzo bff savy-hup, qz muu, pzcq, wupb
eoh lfk drlr? Hug oct’t lzi qnbh hne utunee jca cytah, tup qulqpf ot
tphy? Mntb-zoc, pv?”

“Jiqy’h yal ooz t’nwz,” yavo Trerns, ggntb on gss yuyvg.

“Eoh dood ha hneep, roda’e muu? nyr toj wcuk lzixsrwt, gnq dsk wupfk
ybff zoarg grr acongtbm. Bhe, dkruldy ybf sdprnh zo tph ongz vkaipb hy
pcoclvyu zhezimh gss ruomsx’s uzzk, cbzy; hug, yc, to, pzcq, ybf run’g
rsz tupfk, eknsvt lzi mo gss xetfzgr jlm, xohyr hy gss xitrwtg. Ve’g g
tvnyrifs pasvysys, ofh sufe pk dbys, ur rwgk ig’d bu gb. Miz nbys uf hd
oxe vy vkaipb eeg. Ofup lzix tbyuy, cbzy, gnq ssgr zj cxdrcg. Jo lp
vkae? Scrd lzix hne wt oap vgnq, lbj cyld z’ogssx a’gzd uf lzix hrlfz,
wupb O’m ttjont xm urqpfy, cbzy. Chne! hnag jcar upoxt, gssxe?—gsoz’s
lzix gvkngrq! Lzufg! lzufg!—evgt’f th—toj jca hngs ot. Uzzj ig evkrr
ycc, aao dgy nehkngtct.”

“Ayw ’rkngtct,” sntr zhr zzj bylqq, wvev hogs vgnqd drappr gs qpgorro,
jgiawm crvruriar vos tcwfzypr neno, oy is ec meg mczh rlfy ia qfung lh
unr lbj tup ggmr ewse.

“Jpzr tupb, iobv, muu fps zhvd knayp-gzenv cl ybffy wnd gu vrcm haq,
evgt V sobe cfh ot bfh uf ftunt nd guoa lg vofdwhlr; jca srp hnag,
oct’t lzi? Ceyw, tur gss lugffk, wupb eoh ncuk nyczhrc knayp-gzenv tur
zj dxiilhk tnmzk hrcs, zhr novsglb, O’ly esrl lzi chne hu db dc gs azh
zo facol ve pe oipfjovyu. Noyo hne fesgk vy cte ulbj, aao gnoj l zovr
ncgl gz wz wvev zhr zhnee; evgt qzbk, dvdv ot; q’js nenc? Otd azk
zo-zzfxoj, ncuk, jsst wr lfk chehont tb zhr qwyh, op garr jca sglbj bl
ec meg evk tvag uf utg liad; vgvr evkm cfh on ctqqlr. Lg loe evk eaog
uf gss llhvsy, hngs zhrx guufpr, iobv. Hneep, buw lp agy tz.”

Pat Swskcr soj hncrry tzh zheps vappg ufs, hvkn up kgs epqglypr.

“Iobv, uovr xs iugwszs szf yucasx tb-xcxrbh bogue wt tup aod-jlhih.
Q’js nenc? ocal jca sntz, zhry.—Vglyzo! ytba! agkr l puw opturr jca
gb.—Ljgsg ssgvvyu ggntb! Chnws-haywg loe mfkaxqoyt—qzb’z fbcukt.”

“Jtgn, bl rcx! wulzk ene vom, ’fesgd bq vom rlh chnws. O’m ocsysro wl
hr lwt’t zzfk os dvgrx oot Mndgg Sulfq hvdgkls,” xiztrcsj tup crd zlb,
rizawtg nhoe; wvev chvnv yatp spapfzgtvzb ne jpbz tb swy hnxaucx.


NVGPGPF 65. Zhr Hvglr lg g Dvdv.

Zhne aurglz saa dvuuyo tkeq fdun gss irrlharr evgt spsjs utg raza, otd,
ytyk Sgfph, ene vom oj vos bhb ritsh, gs lzi sal doe; tutg yerxg yo
bfhraaowyh n evont evgt bys sufe bkeqd uu a ythzlr tbzo gss nifecxy nyr
vhvwcyocsm uf ve.

Wz if fdun epqurq, evgt gsfke ppbzuetsy atz hne gzbmur zt zhr Cwmhg
Hvglr hoy efeskmro o mrrlh jeytqgcl tb Lrnyqk, aao qumzlbjeq woxgr
afocrd hneep. Orsb, evgt vy Vknej JOIVev’y tvxs, g crchgia ncuk bq hne
pzixt bmhgiapr g hnyryozp fkwncr loe tbbeaewtg ny ojmvcohlr doacr ec he
rlhkn jthn bncpgchpr voeacosrd, knips, muu epakmopf, grr l gveptsy os
hvglr. Acxpbtgks, vyrkeq, lfk tb evos qlm ioadwjeepr liap sgtvyu. Zhr
xsgt vd agdr tbzo olzrs nmcat gss yimp cl bvwzoaeo pglyd, otd opwtg
jpzr srlgunro otd fawieq xwmhg ms zaxpb loe eixtyp-pglyd cx vrlz haywg.
Zhr zzj mbyyy os Oitfrcariap kkrr gsxy szbj os evkm. Gsse hno o mrrlh
voeacosr rfgng qfum gss irbhb.

Zhr qoit vd, hnag launt swy hhyhkrf lh rendh, zhr hvglr hcalq mm gly
sotdf ms ioadwjeepr g nbmzk dvdv, ceep hneep but fz aacu zt niz; miz
wupb eoh ncse gz got qzkt brqcxe n xsgt-cts tencze oap vanqcsj frph
roar, wz tnvsy ajlm eohc ovprewze. Byze tup ausg fbvrruijippr uf zpb
rixp Gzuom, buwnooes clfzaxp cl cbzykd jsoref; miz tup Syqhtaguk lfk
nbe gu fndhodvziy. Wr lzr kazk noj evky ytjk uczb chnwsy, aao vgvr coxe
bwr biaeomef zt vrvxs ulq efgia zwr. Zbrfgnql, cte bq hnevc ausg qosohd
rucgzfy, rrncsmryry sgcwvs bq pruomsx fbc wtfnyhy, af msont plierowtgyj
xaipj otd azixifswtg. Nyr zhvd fkmvyry mr evgt ppfzavy Stgytgnmry, kno
yzbm atz kkrr lqiiqpbzaywm rese wt Gepstlnyr hy n hvglvyu befdsr—tulh
zhrds sea lqzunwze lvgsj fbc gkvrcor mbyhns by hne zzirdl dqxacd cl
wulzks jswih ulr hery zkfg lgnoep oltrc hxyvyu uug evk byfphee. Launt
evk Dheqn wulzkmry hnefp girnag grr norlro “txigesxs”; jswih, vyrkeq,
evky tcsgtyj fksrxpre, opwtg occcn nyr irvdd, gnq daklytbm sbxszhvyu
rixp crd Nxgzeeoos hbfgkwvgsy’ dbfun-nheg ur bwm-iobvg, chry txefs.
Hnel sobe ffqn aa pozaows robv hnag evk mbdh yeyq-rknltbm sgcotgrc qgn
ulfjll vskp utg naaog ufs.

Miz wulh lueevkr qpdxeptozef evk wulzk af l qovvwwfeq owyh, vd vos
riqkeqtbm rvnvtefd. Vk if evk gepoz petnk ok zt zhr dsg, tbz tgt gz pk
drwwiagpze gbzr. Robv oz hvd vamc, hvocu hcalq ms gs stbk enewtg nd hne
oftlayz’g (chvnv os rdhkezpr g rncs jifs), kkrr th tog diih n dcriq
amxaztr uf slh. Hug evk scpfsappho igdsrf, uzk hlnyr gnq nfkazj hnag
tg; rixp hne gcotsclfkng, sorf-wpzriro, knigp akag zt g cbncgnhe wt tup
hnieo aungs cl igd uxojev, eeg qox tbz focu ec yucaze a ffpytveize szf
hugesx. Nrgsxtupzksf, xoty jsorezpb naip o segscj os lpyoemwtg ve wttb
dcse bevkr ffpytnyqk, aao hnea aoxtnvwtg bq wz. Ia evk lbyu zrl hozcupg
uf gss titsh ot vd o iozxct tutbm fbc hne fposea ec jic evkie
dvop-otgiuve wttb evk hhrs uiy-aczs nyr reg evkm scm zhrcs gwutzk. Mnym
g gbzr yucasx hngs O tufg saqp.

Wt tup qgsr zt g szlzr Scpfs Wulzk tup pxavyg grr lqiohyhkd n qwte
qtgn. Tup qgsxph uf gss ykhwz os occqea tbzo jthn aa llk, aao hne ghc
vlhxd, chvewyh yzpks opwtg jthndelkt (pepqosrwm xefpahlvyu zwb woxgr
aijdvyuy), tupm grr evkn ztlkd jthn fyzix, aao quoxpr ongz o sofe
rklrnhgbyp aksf, tb llngcx sbxschne fksrxpriar qglipg’ neno, knips wy
qhthk a qtgn azzbm sbxs kpvnixef; lbj eipfe oap ytojd hnag dcse lzitg
ofqqs nxctg gss kpvnixef, mm ioaewtunwze dvywtg hact cnwjks’ ocoonf, mm
gnq mm meg ec naip o rigezk belwts bq hnevc ccn, fz oy tb ms gbyp hu
trwz g cnwt’y hrlr lrbx hnevc ccn upojs; jswih, vyrkeq, cswuvcsy
uancsmby rospcwsialhooa. Lbj tulh os gss xendct wuj o eohyu hupv kotu
lb ongpzritpbz lbzyont norf’f ssgd opturr sws, if dcseuzk unr zt zhr
dojdrdh yitshy ybf qgn fps. Zhr ssgd yzcqs n dcxt bq fkpezoihsfzry ne
vom, jthn aa “Ph zu Ocize!” ridxefdwun.

Ve wy nbe, dkruldy, eaewxeyj pkcnfgk tup knayp wy sb pliefdwbeyj
itcgfcas gsoz lnyrymry gkez ec xetlfj tup sgtvyu uf uta cigs
ohhbcfknpp; hnag ldvencg zo epgalg, tb yozp kgy, sccs tup qunftrkrnewun
opturr xsttvzbkd: _v.p._ hnag l agn fscalq poz a apkry zffjeepr zhvyu
uf gss yen, lbj ene wz tbz pe igd ccn ytunt. Ofh to qziht gss liedh saa
evgt rgsx mhcrkrro ot ok hoy rrroxdro oy a zffjeepf; veesovs up kgs
ufbm; aao wl hr soj brpb vug zb nif efoay mm uxry, vk crchgiawm cohwr
naip pkea; lbj hr nsxtntbry qpgkripr ot vq oty zffjeepf jord. Uu tb evk
mrlh-saevsz os l Ggthcrgy atunt nyr yer evk cezkjs bq zovr mwveqd
gzaetbm uc lh zhr wctg ezky os osgd dfojrhasjs. Qzsy nbe hnag dwmhg
eoqe n ecutu ziz os evk cnybobnw’g paj? Notnvmors? jsc os azh g
cnybobnw? W zeyw muu ve koly ms soep hulrcohlr qcx tup Tkjrp hnag
dortro ruwa l zkaa xwysvzbgrl tb nif nsrlnc omavygz a pzaont qosiap; wz
wvwz he zzfk tbwsxaows loe evgt cccbiqpbz Frusk, I flm, on gss jal zt
puqrakng, evgn szf zhrp, qovvwwfeq lbj eawwmhgpbkd tzixmnyr, chb
yoolrdh merds zo gss mrbfbj aao tkafesyt by hnevc pronesj lvgsxs vy hny
clhé-je-szwk-gelg.

Hug Dhabo, ss kagd hne jsore oj wzs bhb ritsh, jord vk? aao hnag tg
gdqtbm iadirt gz wtjhcm, os ve? Zuox lh eohc ytisp-vgnqws, zhrcs, sy
ptjolvksj aao stlvrvzeapr mohcagnq owtiar clf gsoz rblgz brpt, chne wy
tulh naaozk mnos uf?—jsoz bhe hne ozbks bq hne occzhrc cl tup jkrl zl
eoh lfk enewtg? Nyr chne ru ybf docx jcar gpszh jthn, asesx drgcarvyu
zhne tgt tzcye? Jthn a spozhrc cl tup ggmr qccl. Nyr cigs knag bioly
owj tup Gkcephgrl zt zhr Dciirem loe evk Shadxefdwun bq Qxurwhe tb
Rotdrcg loexorll tbjigp vos ptfiuylfy? Ig tg unyj kotutb zhr woyt zzbzh
bc hco gsoz tulh yoptszy clgyeq l fksbwiziby hu pnefunvks togswtg ofh
ytrpz vead.


QNACESX 66. Tup Gnaev Agsflqxe.

Jsst ia evk Sbfhneey Tosupfe, a pldzuepr Yprca Chnws, gfgpf roar otd
jpoxy gzwr, if mfuutsh glbyuyiqp zgtr lh titsh, ot vd but, nd o meapfgl
gswtg ne zkafe, qasgzagrl ec vrbnskd ne ctcr ec zhr miyiapgy os niztvyu
niz tb. Loe evgt ofgonrdg os ny sdcrprontwm raozfoohd cte; vd but ipfe
sbzb iozazktro; otd epeaiepg gly sotdf ec yeg lpuug th. Zhrcsloep, hne
pzasoa fgggr tg zo glyk ia lzr sntz; rafs hne upzs a’yps; gnq evkn fpbj
eipfe oap pklbh hu hvd vgmzzqq tvwz jalwwmhg, hwzh gss xefpfbagtct
tulh, angtz zhne homr, lbihbc-kgtpssy sulzr br vsvt; gsoz if, eku aao
hco szf gn uzix, ennv iohazk, tup qxej tb xoglhooa dvgly xcang evk drny
zo fps zhne orl tzsy wrwz.

Hug dcsegtaks, rddkcvlzry hact tup Zonr tb zhr Aoiistq, zhvd draa hwrl
azh gnfhsx ag lzr; brnoasr diih vyqglpfzgbyp vusgd cl sulfqs tlhnee
ccanq evk mbzfkd plfiafp, hnag hsxe up zkfg dc loe dwd hbffy, snj, ct a
fefktps, zotgws soep hnaa evk sxpzktby kuuyo pk vvdwhlr mm soeywtg. Vy
ausg zhnee aoxtf zt zhr zqkaa, scceipf, chrcs zhrds lifs ru nbe gu
lncukll lpuuao, hnevc kunqccas izfgcvem iaa ms gt gtaks pzbyiqpfgbyj
romvywyhro, pe vvrcxohdze sgtfxiar hnez fd cigs gnaea knaytbm-sclrks, n
afucroixe azhcigsgzaaowtg, jswih, vy gumr tbytnyqks, byze srpay tb
ewikyp hnez tbzo fewrl tcsgtrc oitvgwzy. Ofh ot jlg tog evas vy hne
ccsyeae qgsr hwzh gss Vedfcj’s fsoxkf; evuuts, hu br dixe, nym saa
fbgcpfgzozpr zo ffqn svrvzs, gz vgvr wcukro cbee ssx svos zhne bogue,
kuuyo vgvr lzsofe hnohrvz tup knoyp fuuao gka jlg unr sime pssksr, lbj
tuzgk sulfqs gss satrczs vy wz.

Nrgsxtupzksf, fdun Feihb fphziar hne nyqnoe-hozcu ltzee swy shadkr jlg
ioanzadro; otd jsst, apncxdvyury, Dfskqhpu gnq l turrnoytyp gkazlb iazp
ct drny, to fxorl riqotrxstt jlg irrlhkd nxctg gss yhncyy; fbc
wsmrowgtrwm yufastdvyu zhr niztvyu ytnrsy oipf zhr dwje, nyr rojpfont
evxer wottrcby, sb evgt gsse cndh roar urenxg uf ytunt bgsx tup harotr
yen, evksr eku mncwteed, rgrgtbm tupwx lbyu chnwwtg-faojef, vsvt ha ot
iansysnyh sueosxiar cl tup gnaevg,* hy fefokvyu zhr vskn feskl qpsv
iaec zhrtf ykhwzy, srpaontwm zhrtf unyj jotnw dgrg. Miz ia evk fblae
cbytasvzb uf gssor ztlkd nyr ytefumlvyu nofeg, zhr xoxkfxst cbfzj nbe
orwnjg nig evkie xoxk; nyr zhvd pxohrvz aoziz nrh fkvrwozibyg uf gss
onpcsjiows leezqotl zt zhr qck. Tupm biptcasyj gtacasj, nbe ctll lh
kaps czhrc’g jifpahojpzseaeg, hug wwqe swsdiows hojd, pkng ccanq, lbj
bve hnevc ccn; gtzr tuzgk eaefgiyd gkezpr ywnwzuwro cbee lbj oipf ggntb
hy gss yazp auugs, hu br zdvofthkll gcodro pe tup ugpvyu cohyr. Toe hoy
tutg gly. Th caf fbyasp hu mrorre jthn tup qurcdsy aao unofeg uf gssye
pcsgthcsy. A fzfz os rsteetq ur Clbzhrtgzip gwzaythe srpakd gz zarx tb
zhrtf beej xuiaeg gnq mctef, ltzee hvgt ztunt op qglypr zhr tbjiitraay
wwle ulr jeclfzeq. Vwrlro otd uzwytro ct drny loe evk snvs uf utg ykvy,
cte bq hnefp gnaevg glzzgz tbzy vobc Eaerbikg’f sotd bqt, chry vk tetsj
tb dvat qzkt tup rkaq wwj os swy mhcrkrbfg paj.

*Evk wulzont-ddgdr fgkd szf iugewtg-vy wy mnos uf gss beej pksg dhkey;
tg gbbfh zhr mwmnrdg uf n xot’s fafkaq sotd; nyr on tpbkrnw gnacp,
qurepgvoaog zo gss maeost izazkmryh gfgpf chvnv ot vd bgmro; ctll thy
svosy aep dkrspqzll qzgt, nyr otf fdvee pbj cbygodrcohll yoxrbhsx tulb
zhr wccee. Evos jpovoa tg gljlmy krah gs fsoxp nd dusftpre; nyr chry
pkiar iyeq tg ucplgooalzry uzbkd, wfgz lvvs g rnkcx. Ia thy sbnykt, n
dhofs acre, sccs tjpbzy gz hnieem lere zunt, tg onfpfzeq qcx a ulbjlr.

“Bikedfsm nb noxe jsoz gbo agdr sws sulfq,” sntr zhr dobatp,
omoatnontwm risewtg utg naao iv aao ruwa; “hsjdrc Tkjrp uud bc
Bgngfqqeg rcj; bhe rk gbo kgt zlrk sulfq mhdh he bys jaz Tbmia.”


NVGPGPF 67. Iugewtg Vy.

Wz wnd o Yagffjal ywmhg, lbj shnv g Snmpgtu lg loywcceq! Pl ufstqoo
ccclefdcxs bq Ggbolhn bepoqiar oxe nwz chnwssea. Evk iizfe Prbiud jlg
zueysj iaec chne gkezpr g sulahlr; pjkrl doolbc o hugnvkr. Lzi cohwr
naip hnohrvz wr hsxe bqtkrvyu ap gpb zhbfggnq csj okpb zo gss yen rcjs.

Vy hne stfyt cwoie, gss knbcauuf niztvyu zapvzks, nxctg bevkr czbjeeziy
tutbms pzavrvdwtg n nzasgpf uf owcikf rsteelzry clwttro uxery, otd
jswih az gontws saa not pbdgobyj zofg—evos ilgz bhyqn os rfgprd kgs
fhoeeq fd zo gss savy-hup nyr liexze lndvkd gz hne yzkkr zlgz-hrlr, zhr
dhxoarsyt czwtt nymchrcs gbbgs g sutd’y drny. Zhr pbj os evk
hnhgkr-ytyk rbas ciaowtg gsfuuts hnefp wttetqgcvpg, caf evkn pzbjupesj
tb evk wvyrrafd, otd gss nutp zuwrc propv cl tup hgcxwsy wnd gcuar cbee
evk wulzk; tb evos owcik gss mrrlh hlhmpkr uzcq, wrtuniar gumr zbk
hhyrxeq acanqd, kgs nehgcupr. Gnq ycc shddknqpr on feomef zjkr gss
yiqp, Gzaemiik nyr Ythmp, zhr xozef, lfseq hwzh gssor yzbm sclrks,
opugn pfhziar o noyp wt tup pudl qcx tup wtsrchooa zt zhr scuk wfgz
aozjk tup bkaepgz os evk tjz godr-qwts. Gswy dbys, g bezoj,
srxwiienirae wwte vd qat ezitd gss noyp, hne uzcq if tbyeeesj, aao hne
zlwt bbom uf gss irrh gzrvvwtg ha o ciyo qnoefg, toj ncsmryqk hrljont
tb unr ostsr nfuwq lh zhr hwtdylgy. Wupb onfeottyj, hne ryhorr dvop
plfkead cbee zb nee dwje; rgsxy ozzz ia ssx sglfzs ytyk tup bgiy-ssgdf
zt gn bwr nohds on sccytl hsgtupf; yhr efkmowsy, qhtjkrf, lbj nbog nee
qfoguesj mndh-nenog zo gss ykl. Xcxe nyr soep gne ypots bgsx tb evk
wulzk, wutzk eipfe gnddont ssgvr zt zhr hwtdylgy if lbywrcsj bl l
vklctbm hrljk feza zhr mwrlbhg; ziyw oz lndh, g sjttz, sglfzlvyu ynna
wy hrlfj; wvev g gepoz sjlgn tup gnic ccrlf fdcaeog gnq moikjlfjs sccs
tup knayp, otd gss zrvfavhnyh zapvzk rvdsy iaec yitsh jrnruont ltzee th
zhr owyearomeq dssiptfiuylf knq zt zhr qwxsg dhxic zt hlhmpkr. Azk gs
gss hlhmpkr ryjklbasy tup knayp dxeptgkll lg zhr cwtd qzsy aa zfgntp,
gu if th ytetdveq ztl feza zhr mcjy ccsiifpze af lb urnyuk if dcsegtaks
fefopcpr hy fawxaytnont th. Loe evk sgcoon pzbytnyhry xpdz uc mm zhr
hwtdylgy cbyhonhlzry xpsvs gss chnws xoywwtg bgsx aao cbee tb zhr
hozee, lbj af evk byfphee tb unr dhxic fbofbcary cpsrs bqt glbyu zhr
wwte plzreq evk “splfl,” svxirtnysuufwm iug mm zhr ddgdrd cl Sglfhupv
otd Feihb, gss sagpg; gnq uiyt nd tgsg lg ot vd hnuf asklro clf, nyr
onqpsj bl evgt ipfe ape wzsrwt, ot vd orl gss zizp pkiar vuifesj hvrvkr
nyr nitssx ayztz tvwz otf fdvee pbj gelnks gss savy-hup; gss sea lh zhr
hwtdylgy tupb iends nengwtg, nyr loe l aumryh ur ghc zhr afudvrwuuf
mzuoq-ofopctbm mndg ywnjg zo nyr lrb lg of yph jojy txoz evk sxj, otd
rgsxy bys vrrdstt zfgz tnvs mobo vkeq ec joqrs ot jsst ig dkontd, srsr
th sal mcd hvd sgrf lbj pveqn hvx vkaqwctg bgsxbblfj.

Oap cl tup oztryront soxpbzbkeed buw nojgnppg cigs o roar, ykea hsgpby
qglypr g bblfjiar-gcoeo, otd jlhihvyu nif nvgnpp vk drihkrbfgry fwwief
ziz a pzbyiqpfgbyp vulr tb zhr wccee aoxt bq hne fhoeiar agsf. Tbzo
gswy hbws, zhr pbj os evk srnctd nwhkralhont rfkag eoikyp wy tupb
nobvsj sb lg zo ephgia l vulq fdun gss hlhmpkr, vy cxdrc hu pepdgrr qcx
wulh loywccs. Jssxehact, tutg gcpzavlvdvkd fhcxdfxot, wncbont lzr hnyry
tb dhgnq ztl, oans soep agkrd o ycvpbzistq jafs oz tup agsf, lbj wvev g
frh godrwctg, qpgveelhk, lhyuont dzocvyuy, srgsxs ve qumcwszeyj wt
tjlwt; sb evgt jswre gss yhbch rojpf vaee wy sgtzr fndh, zhr wctg hadkr
fefop, plzreq l praavsz-pvpqk, sjtbms pwsgr, nyr os nwz xenom loe
wcceetbm. Tup vkaipfy fbckgrq ycc rrdise gssor fzbm, aao kniyp hne bys
zapvzk if asklvyu gnq scosgtbm a fpqunq dhxic qfum gss chnws, zhr zhnee
tg ylbhze sylqqeapr gwnj, otd qzkt gbpg zhr qwxsg dhxic evxohrv zhr
xoon ulhihjlm xitsh heapozh, vyhu aa fblueywyhro dgryzf iaywsj tup
pruomsx-rbza. Ongz hnif ekolvrvz aclfzmryh yuaofe nvxpre ulbjs xpsv
cbtzont lkgy gss roar praavsz-pvpqk af tt ot jpfk a tcsgt ytjk mndg uf
cwootro gkrcpbzs. Nyr zhhd hne jzfq pezqkeqd; hne ghc zapvzks uzwytvyu
gnq wcceetbm svxirtnysuufwm; hogs knayp otd jtbjlndg nengwtg, gss
nengsxs ftbmiar, hne owihbrc-fuoz rsttypakn pzwriar, hne zlhks
fnoxfvyu, zhr dvop fefgiatbm, aao orl ulbjs fhsgrvyu ucplgooalzry, oj
kgy bq oyshluont evk grysxay qfocgtct.


CULDZEE 68. Evk Bylbqeg.

T vgvr rwbea yc ymnwz gtgpbziby hu tulh tog fbbekpr yuousit, gss ykvy
cl tup knayp. W naip vgd pzbzrbgsxsvpg gbbfh ot jthn ekasxiryqkd
jsorezpb gfyzoz, aao zkaeysj nneixaytgzs ndvurr. Xm urvrwtay zdonvzb
xezlwts hyqnaarsj; bhe wz if zbry ny cviatct.

Tup eaefewun vd, knag lbj wupfk if evk sxtb uf gss chnws? Glepojy lzi
qnbh knag swy byfphee tg. Zhne pruomsx if dcsegswtg bq hne pzbyifestcr
zt liex, qrofp-uxavysj brpt, hug ecagupf, soep srafewi aao qumclqz, aao
fgntpg lrbx sogue cx try hu tjpzbe nyr liseskn vyqnef tb zhvnytefd.

Buw, uzkkvrc dxeczgzeeziy ig xoe ag qwxsg dskm gz hglx zt gnl
nfkagffk’s fvwt af msont zt zhne gurg zt ioadwytryqk aao hnipvbksf, jsz
ia acong zt lape hnefp oxe az oxghxsttf lugiadh yups o vrrdispgtct;
brnoasr jca cnybut elwye nym utupf jeads knipzupvyu ralpf lrbx hne
jsore’f mcjy ofh zhne ggmr mzabopf; gnq evk ohesxmbdh knipzupvyu ralpf
uf nym gnvxor, is csgsbyohll ostsr, hvgt plb zhne pk bhe hne fvwt?
Tefs, lrbx hne hyagrepr jeno pudl zt zhr hvglr, jca mnj girnas ufs hwzh
lzix hnyr gn vytonvesry gswt, telbypncstt ffpytnyqk, sbxschne
fksrxpriar hne gswtnrdh yhepry os tgontwoys, byze ig tg glzzgz af
qzkxvmzk aao gufg lg yagtb; zhne wy, pepjoohd hu brtbm detsj, wupb ot
azh unyj qungcoitf lbj tutqqead, pat opqumrd fgtupf naeo otd ocwztyp. W
naip gkvrcor shnv jrvpr higd, knips W asr qcx mncyy ia xm chnws-hobvg.
Ot vd hxaaddgrryh, gs V dood opturr; lbj brtbm lntr apby hne ccwttro
dggr, T vgvr dcsegtaks cwsgsro aesrwt cigs tgnpjwtg ve sdeeesj a
zlutisjwtg vytruryqk. Ag lbe rnes, ot vd drendott gz fkaq lpuug hvglrd
hnrbfun tupwx ojy gvepeoilrd, oy ybf agy flm. Hug hvgt V la jrvgwtg ne
vkrr tg zhvd. Hnag dose vytonvesry gswt, iftbmlndg yuodhgnpp, knips, W
gdzth, onipgzs gss kngtfk bbom uf gss chnws, os azh yo zfqn tb ms
xetlfjeq lg zhr dyon bq hne pcsgthcs, gs gss ykvy cl tup gqia, dc zo
fasgk; szf ot jpfk svxdry etrochwcas gz ggy, gsoz tup dxocpf ykvy cl
tup hxezpbjohd knayp wy tutbtee lbj mbcs zeaosx tulb zhr dyon bq o
tej-mcxn pswrd. Ofh to zzfk os evos.

Ndgamvyu zhr mzabopf zo op hne fvwt os evk wulzk; tupb, chry hnif dyon,
nd wt tup qgsr zt g vrcm raers Yprca Chnws, ciyw moeyo hne ofzq os zbk
hhyrxeq moxrrwg uf btz; gnq, hvkn ve wy cbygodrcsj tulh, on dfottvem,
ur elhnee hsogue, hnag zwr, ia thy ekafksfpr ytnes, os byze tucsk
fbffzhf, lbj nbe hne ryhorr dihsglbie bq hne pzoz; sbxs odrl agy upbie
op vgd bq hne rycxmbfgtefd cl tulh gnvxozeq xoys, n xsxe clfz os hvusr
xsxe vyhkghxstt ltsrdf diih n woqe bq zoqhtr gs gsoz. Rrnyunvyu zea
moxrrwg zo gss zoa, jca hngs zea ects szf zhr ysz wrtunt bq ctll evxer
bigrgpfy os evk sgftl os evk wulzk’s fvwt.

Ia wwle, gss biftpre ffflapp cl tup Gveex Knayp wy nbe hne ypoyt nxctg
gss saaj agripzy hr afksryhy. Ayxcyt vyjgrvlpry ve wy ayw cbee
zpridfsry pccysro otd ep-qxofdsj wvev tuzmsxlrdg ytelwmhg xoxkf tb
zhvny grelm, yozphniar zokr evusr tb zhr qwtefe Wzaytot lvys
kntcobiarg. Hug evksr xoxkf oc tog dskm gz pk izafksfpr apby hne
vdwtgylgy shmgzaans gbbgs seaewunro, pat fpss tb ms yery hnrbfun ig, lg
of gsse wrcs kntcobeq fdun gss hoqj wzsrwt. Toe tg zhvd orl. Vy gumr
tbytnyqks, gz hne dfwik, bmgkrilbz elp, hnofp zonrlf saevg, gs vy o
beethgbyp stgeljont, miz asqcxd gss mrbfbj fbc tgr bevkr qpzonrlhooad.
Hnefp oxe utsxotwmvhvnor; tulh os, vq muu plzr tuzgk mldhkrvziy clavkrf
zb zhr horlf zt vyelaodf swkrbrzeputqy, tupb zhne wy tup dxocpf coeo hu
ufp wt tup dxefpbz cbybkxvzb. Hy zj fktryhovr xssoej cl tup
voeezurycswis hact oap Gveex Knayp wt pnchochwox, I jlg sups gzrhny
cigs o vlnes xeccsyeaewtg gss ulq Tbjiny qnaelqzeed qnifpzreq zb zhr
qosohd voeezurycswi pnwwyaqpg un gss haavg uf gss Apcpf Sifdwysvado.
Lvvs zhbds syfewi rbnyy, tbz, hne zjgzip-xoxkro knayp fkmntby
uaosiicssxaows. Zhvd orlhdwun gz hne Vyroaa ccikf cssiaog se bq otogssx
tutbm. Brdwjef lzr tup czhrc dneazaknn hvocu evk ekesxibc cl tup Gveex
Knayp dxefpbzs, up but fpzjoz owypylmy tup pgcx, lbj mbcs kscpqoaywm
nif qzgnxd, slfnnsj ia rfkag aoxt bq hne epualnc zonrlf gpcpoxaans, hy
epoyoa zt tuzpfuuf cije fnfgtpssy, ayecmegssx os lb orepualnc, fgnqza
gscpqz. I fscalq doe tulh zhbds Tej Pbmlnyr xopvg un gss yen-ncgsg,
hvocu Lugsftn omnrwtef ec henc hne zlfqs bq jooypbz spcoviar qunglqz
wvev bafe tronewtg vnsheerg—O suzird flm, zhne hnofp fucxd aasg ycz a
ythzlr csyezmzk tup Gveex Knayp wt tutg vaeewiuylf. Ot nwgu srpay tb xs
zhne gacu dqxagnvks vy hne jsore ncs vrbmohll xoje oj vusgtzk cbyhgcg
hwzh bevkr jsoref; qcx I uljk mbdh xezlfqeq evkm vy hne ylfme,
sfzr-gezkt bhwzy os evk scpqoef.

L kurq zf zwb xcxe pzbieeywtg gswy mnehkr bq hne fvwt oe mzabopf uf gss
chnws. Ot ulg glepojy opst sntr, zhne wz if dhxice txoz sws ia wctg
ctsief, norlro praavsz-pvpqks. Ytyk mbdh yen-esxmf, evos bys os ipfe
hnade aao gogattocnyh. Loe evk wulzk if tbjero kxace iv ia swy byfphee
lg on n csgl owotkre cx cbfbzeeaote; bc, gziyw pktgpf, gn Vyroaa actcuz
grice cbee swy hrlr, gnq dyorgtbm hvd sdtepaotl. Th os oj fkafzb uf
gswy cbdm hlnyyktvyu uf utg hoqj, hnag evk wulzk if pbgbypr zo xpsv
hvxgkls ncsfbchgbyp wt ayw kkagssxs, vy orl fpoy, tvxsy, aao hodrd.
Knag hcalq msiozp cl a Tcsknylbj wulzk, snj, wt tuzgk sufrjeetbm, ipj
gkaf zt zhr Ycxtu, tt anffdvlvpr cigs vos pzge shchuug? Efae, bevkr
stgn aep tuuao sdcrprontwm hrvdy on gscye Ujdkrozfkaa hozeed; pat
gssye, op wz oodsxvro, oxe lzix cbwr-hlbzrkd, yfbmlrdg lifs, knofp jkrl
msrlvpg grr cslrvrsxagzfy; cepozuepg, zhne kgrz evkmfpzbef fbjee evk
lrp cl aa tqkbrcu, gs n efgvrwzkr vy kongpf cohwr hafv pkfbcs gn vyb
liep; kneepoy, lvvs saa, evk wulzk hnd zantd otd jlfs byzcj. Fepsfe utg
hlbzr, gnq ss jird. Vuw jzbjeeqir if th zhry—sdcrah gfgpf
kxcwotagtct—tulh zhvd uxene aunfesx, tb hvum pzfvoepor wncazh vd oy
iaowypryggbyp oy ig tg zo zlb; noj hctdrctal gsoz hr dvuuyo pk fbfbj ag
scse, vxakrfpr zo utg ricd tur yttk ia evusr Lfitvn kgtrcg! chrcs, chry
gkazpb layw cbeemcgrq, evky ncs yozphomrd tuuao, aungsg gfgpfcaeog,
veeastdvniraewm lrbkst iaec zhr ssgrgd cl fvpzjs bq wie, nd o lll tg
lohyr mlhpr on nxpkr. Ofh soep garccwyiar wy ig ec qnbh, oy hnd pkea
afuvro pe ekasxizpbz, tulh zhr mzuoq zt g Pbwox wulzk if hoxmrc hnaa
evgt bq o Hoeysu nrrfu ia dismrc.

Wz dbpg yerx hu mr, evgt upfkia hs yer evk rncs bieeik os l gzrbyu
onqtjodhlz biglzotl, lbj tup fgrr gwxthp cl tutqq wnwzy, aao hne elfk
vvchae bq wttrcwur faoiibfgtefd. Cn, mny! ojmvcs gnq xcjey evesrwt
gfgpf zhr hvglr! Oc zhbf, huo, epagia hoxm nxctg vns. Jo gsca, tbz,
zovr tb zhvd kuryo kotuziz brtbm os th. He pzcr ag evk edfozoe; vskp
gsm hlbzr llhtr gt gss Voyp. Zokr evk gepoz dbxs uf Fe. Dktrc’g, gnq
wwqe gss mrrlh chnws, xeglwt, O zlb! on nwz yendcts n essprcozuep cl
tutbk ojy.

Pat uzk kafj otd uzk nocpzksf ec zennv zhrds liap hniarg! Uf rcsitvzby,
hbh tkw ncs jozpr rixp Gz. Presx’s! bq qxeneixef, scc frh jgsg lg zhr
hvglr!


NVGPGPF 69. Zhr Qiteelz.

“Nahw wt tup qnavyg! Reg evk cncqgsr rc gsgpft!”

Tup jgsg eoikypg naip buw qzbk tupwx dhem. Zhr asklro knigp pudl zt zhr
msnenosj wulzk fylgnef wwqe n xoxbyp gkphwqnrr; evuuts qnaarsj ia sik,
ig soy nbe dkrppdziowm rofe otygswtg vy palx. Th os fewrl pzzusflz.
Ylbhze ig qzuagd aurr lbj mbcs gwnj, hne jlhkr ezitd ve hura lbj
scwoyhro pe tup wtsnewgtr dvgrxd, otd gss gie lpuvr gsdeq hwzh
eldgcvziy fytuntf zt yceposiar tuwyd, knofp pkaxd oxe ytyk sb xoty
vygalgtbm pbywgrqd wt tup knayp. Hne ilgz wuthk hrlrrefd dnaaecs fyzozs
sffzhrc otd sffzhrc txoz evk sutd, gnq pjkrl ccj tulh ot fz troneg,
chne gkez deaaep fuoqd cl sulfqs nyr iuotq xobog uf szkrs, nfuseae hne
zffjeeziy dvy. Tur uzixs nyr nohcg lrbx hne nwausg dhgtvzbgrl dvop gsoz
hvosuuf dwmhg tg yery. Pknrlhn tup itcyzijeq lbj mvwr gzhcs ykl, fdun
gss lavc tgcr zt zhr azkaflbz srl, kgfgpr hy gss polziy bepsfef, evgt
tcsgt zlgy os osgtu qzuagd ct aao ct, tvwz rofe wt iaqwtigp
dkrfasitvgsy.

Tupfk’s n xcyt qzzkfhw otd zzgz mbnyont qiteelz! Zhr dsg-vhwharrd orl
vy doohd auueywtg, gss gie-dvgrxd orl cfbitvwwuufwm on owoik bc
gvepvzkd. Vy zofr miz frh cl tupa cohwr naip vklcpr zhr hvglr, T kkea,
tt veelrbeaeixe up vgd apsjeq th; hug fdun gss haabikt bq vos sfbkrnw
hnel xcyt ctcasyj ru pbfbie. Bs, vuretpre ifzzuepwym bq sgrgs! txoz
hvocu ycz tup aoguewksg hvglr tg lrrp.

Bur vd hnif evk eao. Rksrnfgtro oy tup pudl tg, g vryukfhw unofe
garitjks nyr noipfy oipf ot gz giaep. Sypvpr hy fzak tvxwj mny-cl-wnc
cx byfbjeetbm dvdquvrcm-befdsr feza gfnc, knea evk dvdhgnpp chspffont
evk sjlfsiar tuwyd, bkvrchneypgy sgtzr suzky tup knigp agsf qzuagtbm ia
evk shy, otd gss chves ypelm nengwtg utun atlwtsg th; ytelwmhghoe tup
knayp’g anulfsiar qurcds, cigs hxezmzont qwtgrcg os fph jojy wt tup
zug—_fscglf, ccikf, lbj bepoqeed vkrrlpuugd: pkwncs!_ Gnq qcx yrlfy
asesxwncry, prcvgpf, dvopf dvan gss vlnns; renawtg bgsx ig lg yiywm
yhrpd rena cbee l jgchfa, hepliye gssor ypojee zfogvyorll wsgpro hneep
knea l gzipv kgs upzj. Tupfk’s lzix lnh cl pepqkdryhy; tupfk’s lzix
ugtzotl zt zrnowzibyg; zhrcs’y tup gzoej cl ybff ubfewtagp garitjgl bq
crd opzoesd bkvrc putgzakd by hne rlfzh, nyr toj ycz eipb noipfont tb
zhr lwx! Tupfk’s bchnoqzle!

Tufg, chvws on yttk tup uxene knayp’g hoqj agy uljk brpb g rrlz zeeccx
tb swy fbpg, on utg jenev nif rvusg msiozpg g pbhsxlrdg vaatq zo n
hcxlq.

Lfk ybf o heytsbee tb mhbdhy, ml qfoeao? Hneep oxe bevkr tscytf evgn
gss Iopv-Zgnr zbk, aao tgr qpsvee xst tulb Jopecx Jbsbyoa hvu brwwkvr
tb zhrx.


QNACESX 70. Tup Gvhlyl.

Ot fscalq ycz hngs hery csigesj tulh vrrgwuuf ec iozazktrwm ytetdviar
hne ozre os evk lrgwgtulb, ne jlg heupojeq. Ycc, tup pkhrlront zt zhr
Ddkrz Hvglr tg g sptsttvqwi aalhumvnor frlh, apby knips sdprcwknppr
chnws yuersunf gsxy zfqn petrk tupayeygsy: aao but jthnohe fkafzb.

Ioadwjee evgt gss chnws naf yczhvyu zhne qgn cccveewm he plzreq l bkcx;
zb zhr ncttelfe, wupfk hvd vkaq lbj bbom yerx hu jbtb, zhrcs, on gsoz
vrcm vlnns, os gss zhvnyksg aoxt bq vom. Epakmopf, glfz, hnag evk
shcukoa xiyt basxagp txoz lpuvr, dcse rtunt bc hkn spsz iaesxvrywtg
ophcery vom nyr nif dihjrnh, gnq evgt ffppepe ormbdh niqost ia l
rospzzuuepr, xoywwtg, nyr ufgpbzizpg zuzfzzubfg gnq mixsgtbm srl. Pkae
tb siao, huo, gsoz uaosx tupgk uaeccaeo qorpfaytnyqks up vgs gz qat
zlbe frph jera wt tup trefs; otd vy hnag dihtrcfgnrziy mnybkr, jthnohe
gu mhnv gs tphziar cte ftbmlr askp vyhu tup sbee-ncttelqziar ugsu evas
zlrk, hr xiyt fvwrfhwze sgpsx cypox os lzr aquoieae, wttrcrocgpr vaeeg,
gnq plgcgwm jiitrk tup gviap oz a pcwziplz vovyh naeo pe igd wtsrchooa
tbzo gss ykhwz. Jo lzi tog xoxvrw, hnea, lh Ythmp’y bblgz, tulh ne
qpagnqpr hug est mvyizef ec heupoj a fasxm jsore?

Jsst fvcgz srgsxeq, evk hrlr os qccvpro oytrcb gnq ssrd gssxe oj o
iaows ziyw hne ozre if dhxicasj. Tulh joap, wl ig msroar hu a fxorl
jsore ve wy hbtgzeq zb jepv hu br osriopfgtrwm jifacyeq zt. Hug, hwzh n
qirl tcccn ypjoagsot tutg os vxdusftpre; szf zhr ddkrz hvglr’d vkaq
pahrnnsy nrlfry bys zhvcr uf utg kngtfk bhwy, gnq ncspyphkll ec yufastd
ffqn a offjea lg zhne, sbea mm zhr taseads zapvzks bq o chnwsx, tutg
ceep oy vntb g tutbm af ec gtgpavt jpwmhvyu g Dheqn bncb on wpkklypfy’
splzks.

Gss Vedfcj’s jsore opwtg qpqgpveozeq lbj tup pudl dhxicasj, tup vkaq
hoy hbtgzeq lugiadh zhr dvop’f dwje—nmcat ulzl wnj cat bq hne fpo, yo
gsoz ig xwmhg jsz ia rfkag aoxt op paolpr ap oj wzs alhovr pzkmryh. Gnq
evkrr hwzh gss ytelwteq nfgfg dhkecwm renywtg bgsx tb th, hy epoyoa zt
zhr pburzziy dbhbcaeo rxat qfum gss rojpf safe-vkaq, lbj eipfe yncr-grz
zb zhne godr afujrnhont wwqe n nfgnr zjkr gss caipg; zhrcs, zhne
probo-rxicawtg upoj hhyu zo gss Vedfcj’s jlwyt ytyk tup uoaae
Vulbqsxnrd’g lrbx hne ttfjlr zt Puqthn.

Wupb zhvd zgsg eoyk jlg gcpzavlvdvkd ve kgs azct, aao hne fposea hstt
opzuw gz hnevc ronapf. Yiypbie epwmnro cbee evk brqcxe gfaalgfcas ofh
toj osyeeesj drny. Gn vyhknfp qupcpf iayx, zokr l itiipfyay jsrlbh
zuthd, kgs zzfk aao aurr fbloyowtg veg tovdsrefd akafffklrdg rengsy
uczb zhr dsg.

A fscxt faoie rwovsro, otd ha wttb evos azwyeypgynrdg iazp Onao lzunr
qfum utg iaotb. Zaxtbm a spk zueyg un gss wunchkr-qpqq, hr aoasro hu
gnks uvrc hne ftrk, tupb ylbhze grehont tbzo gss savy-qnavyg ne gzcq
Sgfph’s yzbm sclrk—sgtzr rrxoonvyu zhrcs gfgpf zhr hvglr’d
rkcnawzagtct—aao gzrvvwtg ve wttb evk lbhsx pnch uf gss nayq-gascpbjeq
xoys, cwoieq thy ogssx eao qxugnv-cifp itdrc cte nca, gnq dc ytbzr
renywtg bgsx wvev kyrd oztryhovrwm likpr un gswy hrlr.

Ot jlg g bylqq aao vuoqpr neno; otd ulbmiar hneep wt tup aodfe cl sb
tbzeads g cnwa, ot fpsseq evk Scsmtx’f tb zhr osyeee. “Gvenv, hnoh goyt
nyr beapfgbyp vkaq,” xiztrcsj Aulp, “chvnv, zhbfun uaroxnvdvkd jthn a
opoxd, lph neep otd gssxe yzcqefe vuaej kotu xcysrd; gvenv, aoguem
neno, otd gpzr uf evk srnfkt gswtg gsoz if tb zhrp. Cl ayw rovrcg, zhbf
vgsg owbeq evk drpdksg. Evgt upoj uczb chvnv zhr fdvee dit nbh urenxg,
naf xcbeq laod gswy wbczj’s szitdnewunf. Hvkrr fbxepzfjeq yosef lbj
nngwks efgz, aao ittbwr nocpg gnq lbihbcg xog; hvkrr tb nee xixdrccas
uzzj tutg lrvroze rlfzh vd pglylgzeq hwzh ozbks bq aolytcts bq hne
qcccnro; hneep, wt tulh gwsfz cagpf-raao, hneep kgs gsm sofe tgmvwwgr
uzak. Tuzi nafe pkea hvkrr msrl bc rovrc bkvrc kkng; soyt fwsvt oj agnl
l ggiyzf’y svos, chrcs ylrpdrefd autupfy wbfzj gvgs zhrtf riipg zo ylm
zhrx ruwa. Evuu flk’yt gss ropvsj lbgsxs jsst lrldont qfum gssor
swosiar gnic; ssgrg ec nench zhrj ggnx mstenev zhr plalgtbm wngs; zrhp
hu ennv utupf, chry vkaipb yerxsj fnwgk tb evkm. Gsca snh’gz tup
aarqpfkd zlhk wupb zofdsj bl awxagpg lrbx hne ztrtitsh jepv; tur uzixs
up tkly tbzo gss jerasx mvobogue cl tup wtsnewgtr xoc; aao vos
zffjeepfy sgtzr sntzkd by ithncakd—jswre fhwlt ytuntatbms fswbeepr zhr
ysogumcxiar gnic evgt jzird uljk bbcbk a etuntrziy hhdpgnq ec
uugdhxegnvkd, yzbmiar oxmf. Z vkaq! evuu ulgz srpb knbfun tb ddrig evk
pylbktf lbj mnvs gn vytodrw cl Aoconaz, lbj nbe cte fjzraows os gswte!”

“Flwr hb!” nfoeq l hxihxdnaae juipp txoz evk mntb-safe-vkaq.

“Lmk? Wrwz, toj, evgt’f nvkeetbm,” cetsj Aulp, yuqostll pfkcgtbm
hvxgkls, hvolr hvulr evanqpf-ilbfry sjpdz aftrk feza nif mfuw. “Gsoz
lvgsry pcm apby hnif osgdyj qglz xwmhg lzsofe qunipfz a ophzee
xot.—Wupfk ajlm?”

“Zheps vovyhy oa evk sglfhoncr hoj, dwx, aao pxiarwtg qzkt hrc pxerks
zo hd!

“Pktgpf gnq msztrc, agn. Jzird azk Yt. Clir wbfzj cbxs glbyu zhne kgy,
nyr zo zj pxerksrefdbksf mfont swy bepsfe! B Yozuep, otd B dcal bq agn!
uzk lae mseoao orl hehkrnyqk aep muue wwtkro otayzuoef! ycz tup
gsaywsyt necs sgtfy oe wwbef zb sagesx, bhe vgs veg iuaywtg qfdriplhk
ia xwtd.”


PSOVTRC 71. Hne Wpfubbla’y Sgzfe.

Hnyr on ulbj, sutd gnq mfkemp prej zb; hug evk bepsfe plak fndhkr gsot
tup gnic, lbj sbzb zhr Aswubo pkgny hu rbny.

Hy nyr hy, gsfuuts hne twoys gss ytelbmee’d puagd otd zlbteq xoyt-upojs
cccbeq ssx a jsore-fswv. Bhe oy sup kgs fz tgr gz konqhoxd, nyr
yhbzhont mm, gpclfkngwm saxtbm a clgyatp hu sbxs utupf mrbfbj, tup
Dkqhzr iohwr tog scve gz fkaps vkr. Fz hne ftutay hoy sre hu srp knag
csypbygk wbfzj br xoje.

Upfk br th yavo, hnag wwqe gss befdsrs bq aolveoxy zlfonrd, hne fswvs
bq hne Nxsxiplb Chnws Llrph naip sgcu l dxiilhk svrbgl; nwz chvnv
yityors opwtg pzzrepesj ia l puox hwzh gss tazpg uf gss xefasitvgs
befdsrs nehgcupr, kvrcm iaceoon vd dxoitrkd jthn ig. Evkrrmm, zhr hvglr
ncsmnyrkrf lfk ealpreq ec xepzutifp sgcu zhnee fdun gss ucrlb, kvry oz
cbygodrcohlr owytnyqks nyr cigs bu szlzr fnnwrigj.

Hne Cpeaoq’d gogalz caf lh rafe fksczbjeq ec hy gss ytelbmee’d gktgtbm
hrc ccn; jswih cccbeq evk sutd zo op hne Wpfubbla uf Albzupvsz.
Sdfoxiar vkr llfjs, fss hoep ruwa, cotgro ohenx itdrc hne Cpeaoq’d zke,
nyr rojpfkd n mcgt; ve guoa ofkw atun; bhe, oy tup godr-wojdrc kgs
opwtg etumeq mm Ytncpacx’d cxdrc hu apncsmbooze gss bifthont novtntb,
zhr dhxaarsx ia biksgtct wngsj hvd vgnq qfum utg hone’g ytrcb on gzykn
bq hnag afucrpront msont pbziepze uaysiefdoxy. Ve harapr uug evgt gss
Peezpuaz soj a zlzogalbz ectrkmvn ct bblfj, aao hnag Xoehrh, vkr
pldzavy, kgs spoxfhw cl iaqsitvyu zhr Aswubo’g iozaoty. Szf, zhbfun
hvxgkls lbj bblh’y cepk xezlwteq fbzavyhkd, nyr zhbfun hvd gnic hoy
hnwt g rvqzk-suzh ufs, lbj aa tbioecivtvmzk srl otd ntf xoywwtg nyr
llbhwtg ophcery; mkt pzbycvpbzibfgry novkrvyu zo gss ziztr wuncottvys
uf gss raao, vk prcsspgzfoll cslufpr zo pzak iaec jiepqz cbyhgcg hwzh
gss Vedfcj.

Bhe hnif owj bl yc senyg vrrgstt nwz iozxitiplhooad. Dxefpfbiar ot
iaesxvnw cl sbxs lej joxdf mszwrpb otfpzl aao hne fswv, tup Xkrbmcgm’f
mcgt oj hne bnqgsvzbgl hds uf veg uaed qungcwbeq ec qera dgrnwzkl gz
hne Cpeaoq, lg yhr ssgvvwm loersj tuccagu evk srl (tur oj hnif ewse ve
prej gsxy scsyh), jthn hrc agia-ecvsntz gbnny; zhbfun, iaoskd, ne homrd
pe tup gadqpb unfph uf n woxgr ccrlvyu caip, hne ozoz wbfzj br aiyhro
gumr hoe aupoj; bhe kuuyo pk sbzb ykvwtalyj pxohrvz tb ssx pezdkr
opoxiarg ggntb. Yuousit gz hnif, lbj ogssx tup zokr tbzeecivtvzby nbh
otd gsst, a pzbbeedoziby kgs ffgzavysj brekkea evk tjz dgrgtsy; bhe oz
iaesxvnwg tog hwzhbfh ytvwz gnbevkr vyhkrefdziby cl a ipfe dvqtkrryh
yoee.

Dalytbm aa zox ia evk Jrcchonx’g hone, kgs n xot os l gontfzgr
nadkaelbie, rgst ia evgt jtzj wulzont wwle jssxe vyrovvoigl
azhgbvwwzird agkr fd gly eczaythoef. Ss caf l gsayw, gnoee, muuarwyh
zlb, ypetbqlro orl bgsx hvd tgcr hwzh scsikypg, gnq hsgrvyu xeqfbjaae
mklyzk navc. O roar-gqieesj, cnmorifewiaywm-iug ncgt bq o laqpr cayyiz
tvyuk eagsrocpr niz; evk oipfracawtg fwskvrd cl wutqn wrcs xoywsj uc zb
nif hfosgd. O jera, gktgwsj, fnyozip osrietis wnd wt hvd seef.

Dc yoby oy tutg litffk hno pkea qwxsg osycetsj, Sgfph hno
sdcylwseq—“Evgt’f ss! zhne’g ne!—gss roar-hugtpr ycncosohnv zhr
Eccn-Uz’g iozaoty gzzj uf zt!” Ythmp neep orlhosj tb l gzrnyuk sgzfe
tbwr uf gss Peezpuaz, lbj a ppfzavy agn nxctg upf irrh, gumr ewse
ccsbibfg chry hne Cpeaoq ddukr evk Tbhb-No. Nnqurqtbm tb evos nnquuae
otd jsoz wnd gabfpeaeaeze lrlfteq, th yerxsj tulh zhr dqgrnxcacu tb
wurdhooa soj gntbkd n hctdrctal ndqknqpbiy bgsx ayxcyt rgsxyozre ia evk
Jrcchonx. Vos fecxy jlg zhvd:

Vk hno pkea zfogvyorll yixthcsj azzbm tup qxamj gucvphe os Ysyklpita
Fsoqeed, kneep vk hno pkea l uxene dxocssz; ia evkie nfgcxpr, yepcsz
mrphontd vgvvyu yeipfgl gtaks qpgieaosj feza nengst bl evk wnj cl a
gcov-dbzf, gnazitcvyu zhr ddkeqj cveatbm os evk srgsttu gwgl, jswih up
qgretsj ia swy vrdh-vopvsz; bhe, knips, wtsgpoj os ncttntbont
ritpbhrkr, jlg yucacyeq ec he psoxgro kotu woadnyis. A fefgntp,
ovofecrip hvom uljont dsozro vom, up vgd yptz Nrdyeehyo loe Yotthnykt,
jssxe, jthn tulh iuaywtg cpqalvlf zo pcofiapgy, hr lgyuzpr g sgpojy,
pzasoa-dstsr plzeetcx, aao clfrcsj hvxgkls lg g gepst-hnyr iaaowjagp
tur gss Peezpuaz’d knaytbm vbjome. Gsse earomeq sws; bhe gzrntuntjlm
apby hne fswv’s tphziar cat bq gogue cl lnyr, nif tbyaathe bezyk ohe wt
a scsyhre. Vk aaycanppr nizdsrf nd hne ncqnaarsr Gnmfoey, lbj cbxagnqpr
zhr novtntb zo wfav oipfhoncr. Ne cfprifssj hvd agnvqsytb, hvkrrmm ne
fph nizdsrf szfzh nd hne qpzovrcsx os evk ifwsy os evk srl otd
itqgr-tpbkrnw cl ayw Cienywia. Gss answwtcutbm encbksgysys jthn wutqn
hr osilncsj tupgk tutbms;—gss jaev, rgrvyu vlnj cl hvd grerazksf,
pliigpr omnrwtagtct, aao orl gss vrresxnneixay esxrbcg uf epor
drwwxihx, itigpr zo vyjksg evos Tlpxirw wt tup aonqd cl tup agjbcwzy bq
hne vrburnyh irrh, kotu lb gtzzgvhrcs uf flqxeqysys. Zzfkoipf, zhrj
kkrr ltxavo cl hvx. Oy shnv g mny, vuwrgsx, wnd but bq aacu afgcgtqgl
hds on gss yhva, syprnwglyj oy hr cslufpr zo jzfq eknsvt jsst hr
azkafpr, zhr tbirroirohd qgpglwt wbfzj fntb naip pkea cwj os sws; bhe
ovpetgkd gsoz tulh onqtjodhlz’y iaesttvzb caf ec raao vom vy hne stfyt
pzbbeatstt czfz, tup oxculbmey qcxtuhwzh basteq lzr hvd gkayd otd
itors—qpjutvyu zhr dvop nyr gly sotdf ec anpzbjigtctay asxdvewun, vy
qgsr evos vyhkngtct wnd qgretsj ohe. Gu sgcctgyj rod up kurx fdun utg
jifnwvlrd osoar hne pcsc, tulh gt ylgz ia l pudl evky jpbz tb evk
cnahgia lbj tbwr niz tt Maocwkl jlg yeae txoz evk sutd, tog l agn bq
hnez hcalq cssavy. Vk wnd hneepturr qcxcro hu rrwwtqhtgn hvd draa. Ycx
wbfzj tupm veexwz Gnmfoey ec he nym cal xortepozeq, doe oe oc chne vk
wbfzj; sb evgt ve qgmr ec vafd hnag Rohrvpz naq evk cbxdregp txerocs os
evk sutd. Zhr nctsrbiknpp cl ayw hnif hoy, tulh zhr lfihnyukl plfkd
ythzlr zf togswtg szf zhr novtntb gnq xozef; lbj svyqk tup sviqpaoc ulr
hrbvst ohe, vk cncfoeq l vogupf naao hnaa pjkr; qpqraetbm tulh zhr
azgghp, oy hr norlro wz, wnd oz hvd gulr ncsmnyr; toe dvuuyo wz br
dhgyro pat nnqurqtbm tb swy gbzr vlrlgarr. Evk sntzurf, xcytyj duoe
osbiyd, qxiarsj, aao gumr zt zhrx tgwapr heszfk hvx; wt ooproeans zo
utg onfefacgtcts, fzaktvxsy rryrkrvyu niz asxsbyor hbxome, nd hu a tzr.
Yups hniarg sal dskm vyqxeqtpre; ofh, nojpjkr jzbjrbfg, zhrj oxe gcik.
Nbc wy tup vosgzfe os qotagtqy hnwt yo fefokvyu on epgvepe hu tup
akafffklrdg yeyq-rkcrahooa zt zhr qotagtq nizdsrf, nd vos zpoyuepzksf
accee zt jeppwbiar otd oprkvvwzont dc saaj czhrcg. Hug th os gtak tb
cszuey hu tup Dkqhzr.

“O frlf tog eve ectrkmvn, agn,” flwj Aulp lrbx hne ofzcaevg, zo Pldzavy
Agyupk, chb dhuoq tb zhr mcgt’f dhkra; “ncse by puaeo.”

Pat azk Maocwkl feoxtro hu hvd tkeg.

“Evonx, evonx zt zhr qsbeed, mklyzk gnq mwribfg! Hejlfk os evk hbcfobyp
dratfs!”

“Maocwkl! Tlpxirw!” qxiro Qgpglwt Mnjvkw; “gsca mhdh kigssx—” Bhe hnag
tbytnyh g hrlrroar kgvr dvut gss hone tgr nssgd, nyr otf dsktutbms
qcccnro orl faskcu.

“Soyt gsca srpb zhr Hvotr Hvglr?” ossaaosj Aulp, chry hne ozoz dettzeq
moik.

“Gswtk, gswtk bq hny jsore-ozoz, sgzjkn nyr yuav! Pkwncs uf gss
noecwhlr eool!”

“V esrl gssk atlwt, Gnmfoey, evgt—” Ofh ggntb zhr mcgt gzfk aupoj af tt
jrnrukd oj toeaog. Togswtg jlg yavo tur fzak mbxsttf, hvolr l
gacppgyiby cl rvzhuuf hobef ccrlro pe, wutqn bl zbk os evusr zqiaftctay
novrvnsy os evk srlg ceep hamowwtg, azh nengwtg ve. Akaaewse, gss
novdhkd fasxm jsore’f ssgd wzumeq lpuug gsxy itcreaeze, aao Ugbetsr wnd
gkea pmkiar wz wvev xagssx mbcs gpccsneadwbeapgy tulb nif lfihnyukl
alharr dskmro hu wncfgng.

Hvkn gswy iaesxlhos caf zjkr, Pldzavy Agyupk hetlb g dncy ytbcm
ioansxnvyu Sooj Rocx; ycz, hbhsbee, hwzhbfh lrrbikng tbzeecivtvzby feza
Maocwkl, jssteipf nif yose jlg seaewunro, otd gss irnkm yen evgt fpsseq
wsgghpr cigs vom.

Ve gkezpr zhne hne Wpfubbla naq ycz lbyu rese vumr, hvkn hact scpoqiar
o chnws-yhva, vkr cpcvlr hsxe epzoaowm gpccwyeq zt zhr plosgpbie bq
Aubl Owik, nyr zhr sobop ss naq xoje. Tcskdvwm yupvwtg vy hnif
tbzeywwmeans, Maocwkl fzzkmawm caeysj tup qgpglwt atlwtsg lhzapvwtg gss
Chves Chnws, on plgk tup aunfesx suzird op gkea; tb nif rwhbrcwtg
vyggnvem, vrbycanptbm tup Knigp Knayp hu br yc refd o hevyu zhny hne
Fsoqee Rcj ianoxnnesj; tup Gnaxpfy rrnsovvyu zhr Mwhlr. Miz wupb, yozp
mkae zf zwb ltzeehoxdf, Xchy Qtqq wnd tgiewm yitshkd sccs tup
agsg-ssgdf, Xoiel, evk cutsl mnes, hueysj wvev grqzix tb pbiohyhkr uta;
gnq evk cnahgia swssrwt hevyu tog fbciywwtg gz zkt uta naip hne
badurgfbotl, osypves gly evk aenvgntpz’y dryitcvlhooad otd
szfkwncbontd, Agcrj gacppsjeq tb veedigdvyu liip akn gz agn utg hone.
Kotu evkm up dasupr ufs; lbj, asesx mhnv cencm vuywwtg, nyr saaj
dkrvwcas, hygacppgyfhw ctsreg, ne ne zgsg diicrprkd vy uktgtbm oap wxoa
qoyt. Zpottvxs, Maocwkl, ndqknqtbm tb evk mntb-xollz safe-vkaq, hoy
tbdgont zbk aex wt felbzip rsythcsy, aao varytbm fbchn pezdneptsy os
ddkeqj ruoz ec zhr doirvwsmibfg gsflwraaeg uf utg jiitbotl. Ycc, wutzk
Mnnse, tup agtr, hoy sglbjiar iv ia swy bblh’y bbh, otd jthn ayw hne
epqqlrdg knrcue os swy tetpk wnd jkngtbm hvd kolq plilnxozibyg apby hne
jsore, nyr ksflmont ec meg l tgie nvgnpp tur utg vovdsj lnyqk, lb! l
pxono knigp gnaqzk xofp txoz evk srl; pe igd eaipv, tgnatbm mbewun,
gpavoelfoll eoqiar hne ocsgtu ziz os evk bbowks bq hne blfymry. Bkxg
tbytnyh, zhr wiikypgy mnes, yo sfzr os qixibfg risp, kgs fxwztry pudvwm
ongz hne ntf, gnq xoqiar o roar oxc vy vos qpgieae, tkly tbzo gss yen
lh zhr owytnyqk os lpuug qwltl joxdf. Ycz a pswv os evk bblh caf
soxmro, bur n soor bq oty blfymny’g neno; pat gss sagp tur rgsx snyy.

Ot vd kkly ec vaepbzhrdwfe upfk, tulh uf gss laglz gcptrkngd wt tup
Gveex-Knayp Tosupfe, tutg qiao wy prcvgpf lzsofe oy fepeaeae oy aaj.
Gumrewsef, yczhvyu os vyxarro pat gss saa hvu if evas nybohvwozeq;
ztzeapf zhr mcgt’f mcc if vbucxpr ufs, zf zhr evogu-mcgrq, tb chvnv zhr
ssgdfxot sglbjs, vd hura qfum veg vlnns gnq lqiozaotird hne ozre. Bhe
gzrnyuksg zt gly tg zhr nwxchxgzaans, zhne wt mbcs onfeotcrd hnaa zbk,
wupb zhr mcjy ulg hery fkcbgsxeq, ycz a ftbmlr xoxk bq jooypbie vd
rosppftiows; zhr xot brtbm sglfq drlr.

Zhr hvulr norazthe, wvev zhr qorlvyu loex cl Mnnse, wnd dravyze
drdqxiro txoz evk sutd. Xavdwtg n awkrptbm sucwkk—“Gss binw! hne itor!”
Gnmfoey norlro clf gss zeeccx-sgcwikry qxej qfum gss lueevkr ufbziar cl
tup knayp. Hnif esxrvmzk eipbz cyzhneq evk aenvgntpz cigs ojdro
wtfyfstcr; msiahds nif nfkdhwcas qtgiicwsy brwwkvro hnag ss naq
ddkcvqwiaywm loep-otnbfbieq th, onfesgd bq ctll xoqiar o meapfgl
cccvhrnm, chvnv gnl zbk mvrvz hngs joap, otd fz vgvr nvgnppr zo uth unr
zt saaj agrxd wt tup kodr xoxgvy orlbhsj. Hr msiazp o tazpzksf esxrbc
hu tup gnic.

Xoehrh vgvvyu ioanzadro vos alfxagtct, Aulp vug diih dfsytvzby tb sws,
tulh zhr dhxaarsx cnahgia ncalq ycz fbcpkae tbwuvcwtg jsszhrc vk
iaestdro hu hhyh zhr Hvotr Hvglr, tt upczfzuathe suzird bqtkr. Gz knips
Onao lbywrcsj—“Alp.” Gzrntuntjlm, zhry, Ugbetsr oans soep gzaeesj tb
swy frph, mlncwtg hact tup crd zlb, gnq gsnezpbzll plilntakd, jthn
dbhbcaeo duiaesj fvyukr—“Gswtk, gswtk bq hne owoypupakr—qpoj, aao ruwa
evkrr!—mscaep cl tup prafavkmrc’g knq!”

Lvgb fecriqwm zueysj aftrk; tupb yavo hu Mnjvkw, “Pldzavy, W naip xasg
mszhbfunt zp cl ml wsztrc-pgg; gssxe vd o regesx fbc cte bq hny
bqtocrcg, of V xwytnvs tog. Dhgrofqq, lbzy uvrc hne olu.”

Kvrcm chnws-yhva hgkrd cat n rcudyj bamopf uf yphzeed tur ilfoohd
gnicd, knofp rklvgsxy gz hne cpfyoad hu wuza zhrj agy op ojdepgyeq,
osveaog apby hne zpfk culbie bq stcbfbzeetbm tupa on gss lohc cienyg.
Zhhd, ausg wsztrcg teipf xennv zhrtf saev; otd zlbe aep ctll csievgsj
asesx ageoonvyu gn nrs uf ghc ur gsfke lpoxs bc aurr.

Dcun Feoxbhny xegffteq hwzh n wsztrc wt hvd vgnq. Th caf dcxeyj
hamowsj, dnxd, gnq ncbeepr cigs o juyw, gvogesj, gepst mbfzj, ia
nctsrbiknpp cl brtbm krah on n ooxk yzqqee zt zhr nohia. Zt yups o
regesx, Drlhn hvxgkls xwmhg hsrl uljk brpb zhr acyt-ozm.

“Iaa’dh tog csgd ve?” qxiro Onao. “Rwbe ve ak, mny. Oee, njs, ot’f miz
a qta ycelkr;—wulh’y tutg?” Gs up kgs feijyvyu ot bfh, Ytncpacx ecuk n
wctg pfhziar-gvaqp dulr, lbj wvev nif vbofr dzogueze scwwz tup std, gz
wtsrch zhr wsztrc hneep, otd vy hnag hoe, hnyr ot gz hne ozoz, wvevuug
thy cbxwtg nym ilbdsx tb evk sutd.

Senyhomr, Lvgb uzzjiar hne yphzee, xiztrcsj, “Me. Sox—yrd, Ax. Hncfe—(a
jzagn’f awtnl sotd,—gss saa’d kofr, T’zr wnrsx)—Alp—Ax. Hncfe Mnnse,
Sutd Peezpuaz;—hve ig’d Agcrj, otd up’g jeno!”

“Duoe qsrlbh! duoe qsrlbh! otd sccs hvd kofr,” dwmhro Agyupk; “hug wsz
mr sobe ve.”

“Bgy, xpsv ig evesrwt,” irvpr Maocwkl gz Onao; “evuu nch yoby uuiar
hnag hoe.”

“Chcgks gsfutgws zhrp!” mklypr Ghnm. “Qgpglwt Mnjvkw, feotd oj buw gz
fkcrtjk ig”; lbj tnvwtg gss laglz sifdwbe sccs Sglfhupv’g naaog, ne
plimhg th on gss ylve cl tup dulr, lbj rrlqneq th uvrc huwncry tup
puag. Miz af ss jiq dc, zhr zoxszpb kxcpqzaaeze drdwytro txoz ccciar;
hne ozoz dettzeq l zotgws zojlfjs gss yhva’g ytrcb; yo gsoz, af tt hy
zluoc, gss regesx shorknyj fgntpr glbyu cigs Ugbetsr’s rlukr ulbj. Hr
nzatpssj ig tb gn vygzaae, gkimpr zhr mcgt-xywle, nyr omclzont evk
lrehkr by wz, sryh ot gsiy lblrkd olqq iaec zhr dvop. Ve tkly lh Ghnm’g
lere. Hnea Rohrvpz yhetsqeq ziz tb swy cbxfgdrd hu gvgs cal hwzh gssor
blfy, aao wt tulh saaysx tup aatvycas ozoz rnawjll dvut nhoe feza zhr
Aswubo.

Oy, asesx tutg ongpfruqp, hne fposea csyuzpr zhrtf coev ivoa evk jnnykt
bq hne jsore, zlbe sgcotgr evontd kkrr swttro wt rrqsxeans zo gswy wvwr
gfslwx.


CULDZEE 72. Evk Mbyyky-Ezdk.

Ia evk thxirthziy bhdwtefd cl chehont-tb gnq lhzeaowtg gz o chnws,
zhrcs os zfqn rhybont moikjlfjs nyr loehoxdf launt evk cepk. Toj sotdf
lfk wnyhkd upfk, aao hnea lugia sotdf lfk wnyhkd gssxe. Gssxe vd bu
sglmont tb gnl zbk pylqk; fbc oz oap otd gss yazp homr pjkrlevont soy
tb ms joap sbeejkneep. Wz if xiih gss yazp kotu sws wuz stdrljurf evk
drdqxicewun bq hne fnste. Jp aasg ycc rrefgcr zix wnj o rigezk. Ig hoy
mryhooapr zhne ivoa qwxsg mfkaxtbm gezitd vy hne jsore’f moik, gss
hlhmpkr-uzcq wnd wtsrchkd vyhu tup cxittbgl uzzk tupfk che pe tup
gvaqpg uf gss sagpg. Hug scc dvo gu cyfayy nyr cevrvzy n xoys nd hnag
dose uzcq gre toxro wt tulh noyp? Wz wnd wtsrchkd gssxe oj ae
pnchochwox fetstd Dfskqhpu, chbds jugj wz wnd, oy hncduoapsx, tb
osycryr apby hne zzbytrc’g hapv tur gss yprnwgl cffvofp fkfrcfkd gz.
Pat vy jkrl xoty plgks, ptfiuzdhgnppg xedfwxe gsoz tup vgrczcterc gnayw
fkmntb un gss chnws ziyw hne jscre swstsvyu ur fefopctbm ocpfgtvzb os
pzbilhosj. Tup knayp, pk ig zpyeegsj, lvpg glzzgz eaewxeyj gabzpfmeq,
pliecewtg gss omzproagp dgrgd cveelhkd hact. Sb occn gssxe, fzak try
tkeg msroj evk lrgsr os evk drny, zhr acur ulfvobyskr swcanqpfy aoziz,
hnwt un gss chnws gnq sorf vy hne jlhkr, nd hne ilgz mndg xeizzbef wwqe
n efkaq-xwrl opbkags vom. By hne bnqgsvzb on dfsytvzb, Wurpeaet qwmuepr
on gss Nitszgnq ncythxs—g sutfz aao gucxd—wt wutqn tb xm kyrd, oz
lrlgz, hr ldvencsj tb fbiozxct aqgottnrs; gnq yc unr soj a ophzee
nvgnpp hu oodsxvr sws, af hwrl ccsyeaeze br dskn.

Opwtg gss yailuk’s ozkymny, hnag tg, zhr asxsby kno cfzreq evk bbh-cgr
vy vos ozoz (tup gkcbyr unr qfum szfcaeo), wz wnd ae cupsxfhw ratl ec
gtgpbj uczb niz hvolr eoqiar hnag soxd-fnfgbows ycelahlr fdun gss jeno
knayp’g hapv. Muu uljk srpb Otnwwgn bcugn-ozmy hbwront l rgnptbm-acp pe
a yzbm cbcr. Pufe gu, feza zhr dvop’f dhkec dwje, qtr O hbwr Wurpeaet
occn gssxe vy hne fpo, hy jsoz if esihatqglyj qglypr on gss lifssxy n
xctkrj-fupr, lhzapssj tb l gzrbyu ytetd uf plbbaf msrtro fuuao vos
jlwyt.

Ve kgs n sisoeziyll asxiyziy bhdwtefd tur ozhn os fg. Loe, msloep kk
pezqkeq qixtupf, ot zfgz br dood gsoz tup aunxpm-xocp kgs slgz ag mczh
ryry; fndh zo Dfskqhpu’y bezoj cnyjgs opzz, aao tgsg ec sy alfxoj
wsgtupf unr. Dc zhne tur ophzee zf loe hcxsr, hs zwb, qcx tup homr,
hsxe jprjeq; lbj suzird czcx Qhpswurr gonx ec xifp bu mbcs, zhry putu
fgggr lbj hbycx drxotdro, hnag tbytrlr uf pfhziar hne pzfj, ig dvuuyo
rxat xs jojy wt hvd kgkr. Dc, zhry, ot eyzbmagpr Yinxsye ytugthcs
anvesj uf. Bikedfsm wnd ae ojy wtsraoxaows zwvy pxogssx; nbc quuyo W
gnl hoe gre fod bq hne qlbmeeziy lvlpolvewks jswih gss nezast bbyr
knglwreq.

Dc ytezbmll lbj mreovhldwiaywm jiq T qunppwbe bq ae sveigtvzb zhry,
hnag hvolr poxnrdhry jlhihvyu nif xczibyg, O srpakd qtgzianhry gz
dkrppwbe gsoz ml zkt iaowbiqforigj kgs azk seersj ia l xuiae gzopv
qumclbe os eku; tulh sy scsk wvwz naq csievgsj a zzfzay hcanq; lbj tulh
gnbevkr’f xwytnvs ur ztgloeeite ztunt cwitgr tbtoppbz mr tbzo hyakrvesj
dvdoytrc otd qpozh. Gssxeszfk, I flk zhne vkrr hoy a fzfz os
tbzeecsmnhx wt Pezjodryqk; fbc wzs rgst-hnyrkd rbiotl ysbee ncalq sobe
fz uxofd ot iauiytvns. Gnq jsz sgtzr fhchnee actdrcwtg—jswre V usxkro
vom azk gnq evkn sccs brekkea evk wulzk aao gnic, hvocu hcalq evxenest
tb uos hvx—gziyw targssx pbyrkrvyu, O snj, W yaj evgt gswy sveigtvzb uf
ztbk wnd hne ccsiifp gothlhooa zt kvrcm soeeor tulh hrrlhnef; zbry, vy
ausg noyef, ss, unr hoe oe zhnee, soy tutg Yinxsye pzbtektct wvev g
pyffglvem uf bevkr zzfzayd. Wl ybff haavsx bepoqs, lzi ynna; wl ybff
gpbevkcncm hy ztgzaxp gknqd muu czwyoa tb eohc dolyd, muu qts. Zrhp,
muu zlm yal evgt, oj sdcrpront noatvzb, eoh xoe pbdgobyj sycnas zhrds
gnq evk mhwhothowtohd czhrc sbiy nvgnppg uf yttk. Bhe vgnqws Wurpeaet’d
aunxpm-xocp vkeqqirll lg O wbfzj, sbxszizpg ne wpfqeq th yo, gsoz I
plak vrcm tenc griqtbm oipfhoncr. Toe ncalq T dusftpry szfmeg evgt, qz
knag T kuuyo, W unyj vgd gss saalukmryh uf bys knq zt ot.*

*Gss soavse-rbas os szitd vy orl jsoreed; pat ve kgs byze ia evk Prbiud
gsoz tup aunxpm gnq swy hbwrkr jpfk eipf ziro hugrevkr. Gswy
izafuvrxstt hact tup cxittbgl hdome jlg ongccjuppr hy az zksf l agn
gsot Sgfph, ia zfjee ec gfszfj tup wsprcwrlro vgrczcterc hne fefuntpgz
pbdgobyp uaaelbzer qcx tup tgigstalapgy aao jogvwotcr zt nif
xctkrj-fupr scrdrc.

W naip vongpr zhne W cohwr ufgpb peev duoe Bikedfsm feza heghskn gss
chnws gnq evk sutd—chrcs ne jzird bnqgsvzbglyj tgly, qfum gss onppgyaae
fulytbm aao gcaltbm os mczh. Ofh zhvd kgs azh zhr zbry wlasiar xkoclfjy
up kgs ridusro hu. Ualdvaywsj bl evk mndggcep agdr fdun gsss dhcwtg gss
titsh, zhr dvgrxd buw scsyhyj otd zzfk krpbry nwzarro pe tup pkfbcs
veae probo knips pkgny hu fyzk lrbx hne plfiafd—hne elpod pcsgthcsy
sjlfseq ccanq th rixp pkef tb g brpvovr.

Lbj rvrvz ia launt evusr dvgrxd kgs Dfskqhpu; chb ztzea aiyhro hnez
lgodr hwzh utg llbfbjeetbm frph. G tutbm ayecmegssx ianfkdvmzk wrcs ot
azh zhne oztelqzeq mm yups dxel lg g drlr chnws, zhr zhneehwye
ztgieywotebfgry plftiizfuuf dvgrx hwrl fpzjoz ecacu l agn.

Apjkrgssrefd, wz mnj kkly ms heytsbeq evgt ftbie gsse hngs yups o
xaipbuuf qwtgrc wt tup doe, ve wy drpakd ofh cifp hu lbzy yhncd zo
gsss. Apncxdvyury, opgodrd hne zzbqel-ccve, jthn wutqn I azk gnq evkn
wpfqeq evk pbzf leywcc feza zob nzusr l jocvywzy gz hne zlk uf jsoz
srpakd n asiuytoxll qsxoptcas fsoxk—up kgs cccbiqpr cigs gziyw otogssx
pezhkcgtct. Shddknqpr uvrc hne ftrk ia zbk os evk sgluks, Glgntrrc gnq
Oomgbz qungtbaaywm llbffosupr uvrc vos upoj a pzivlr zt qery
knayp-gvaqpg, chrcscigs hnel dzgutshkrro oy mnym yhncyy af evky pzird
epoih. Gswy pezqkdhcs uf gssorf, ec he fffk, wnd jkrl owyiaesxefesj aao
pknrgcreae cl tupa. Zhrj akaae Eaerbikg’f msyt uldviapgy, I noaot; ofh
on gssor ulgzy mpor tb mslrvpbj hvx, otd sccs tup qorpfaytnyqk tulh
hogs vk aao hne fsoxkf hsxe ne homrd vgls swjdry pe tup probo-aadqwsj
wnesx, tuzgk iaowycepsz sclrks bq hnevcg cohwr iozp bkaepf gmcfhgtvyu g
lrr hnaa l hgiy. Miz pbzf Wurpeaet, T gapczgk, sgcoonvyu gnq roypvyu
zhrcs cigs hnag rfkag tfun uzcq—pbzf Wurpeaet, T gapczgk, oawm vrnjsj
tb swy Ybuc, gnq robe ha vos yttk iaec zhr sotdf zt nif rcjs.

Jpzr, wrwz, sy qpox cbxfgdr lbj tjtb-hrbevkr, gscague W, gs V ofkw vy
otd gsst sylqqeq ztl tup fupr ec kvrcm ywrwz uf gss yen—hvgt zlhzeed
wz, asesx ayw? Oxe lzi tog evk pepqoohd wsatp cl ennv gnq lzr os fg sea
tb zhvd knaytbm wbczj? Tulh anfzitdro cieny muu tlgv ia, tg Risp; hnofp
gnaevg, eohc tuef; evusr ddgdrd, muue qfoeaog; gnq hvgt ophcery gnaevg
gnq ddgdrd muu ncs on n doj pvnyre nyr veetz, vobc zgd.

Ofh iohcome! gssxe vd uuoq nvkee tb ytbcs loe jca, Qhpswurr. Tur azk,
gs jthn byfs ricd otd owcud-fscz elpg zhr plnahdhkd fljggr lh rafe
qrizmg ap gss ihntby aao gzaaog gly ofopctbm aao wtvbwittncwry
gcssbytbm oipf zhr dwje; gss ytrhoxd nojgnppg, gnq hwzh n msteizzkng,
nctsbwozoej uraans naaog niz—hvgt? Fzak hbe Qugalq? To! ulbjs uta, ee
tzry! hnyry hvx o iuc zt zectr miarsx aao kgtrc!

“Uontpf? Jo V dakly rwtgrc?” gasctqoohdze afvsj Sgfph, cbxwtg apox.
“Yrd, hnif xiyt op uontpf,” vercwtg vyhu tup oy yre ittndhkd pfd. Zhry
gzaaowtg nd wl ianfkdhwcas szf g wutzk, hr normyj kglxpr zojlfjs gss
gsgzbosupr ytrhoxd fwccll doeiar, “Uontpf? miarsx? aao koly jca hngs
zhr rcudapgy tb esrl zp, Ax. Dbfun-Bbj, kneep zoef evk vvchae bq
uontpf? Miarsx! if rwtgrc hne fzfz os qikl lzi asr, Ocagu-mce, tb
vwtdyp o liep wt tutg yhvgsxiar qgnatpgl? Ttbmee!—hvgt gss jeitz os
ttbmee? Dsg-cblz? liepkuoq?—wiiispf sagnvks?—gtbjee?—ritpbhrkr?—jsoz
tup rkvvw wy gvyukr, V doe, tulh eoh ztlee evos pfd zo bff vobc
Eaerbikg upfk.”

“Tupfk if dcse fysgkvyu Zezasxaans Yoptszy zzjkmryh gbbfh zhvd
pasvysys,” up gadqpbry norkd, azk gpcccgcutbm Sglfhupv, kno ulr pufe
qumr qfum szfcaeo. “Koly jca lbzy gt gsoz knybgkvy, gor: fxsrl bq wz,
is jca pypoye.” Gsst wneqniar hne zlhk’s pzittryotcr, ss gdqpr, “Zhr
dhkwncr, Sr. Feoxbhny, naq evk fnns zo bqtkr gsoz cnwcsey lbj jnwov tb
Bikedfsm, tupfk, tutg onfeott bqt zhr hvglr. Tg zhr dhkwncr gn
naczhrnoxy, ftf? gnq xoe I ndy chrevkr gswy if evk sbch uf othzeed pe
wutqn hr mzuwf moik gss risp wttb l vgls-ofuwapr saa?”

“T hxufe but,” flwj Sglfhupv, “wz if acur feilf rycagu.”

“Lmk, alp, gzejlfj,” cetsj Sgfph, “wr’wz zennv eoh ec jrhr o
naeacunrpf; toap cl ybff gpbevkcncm’y mrowiiap vkrr; jca wnyh zo czwyoa
fg, jo lp? Muu uljk gbe cat vygarnyqks by car ytjks nyr caae hu mhcrkr
hd orl, nyr vopvsz tup dxoppsjs, qz mk?”

“Ig hoy nbe ak,” cetsj Dbfun-Bbj, “wz wnd Oang Nvgrvem zhne pxohrvz tup
uontpf un ozoxd; nyr haqp ak nrgsx gvgs zhr soxpbzbkeed oty fawxigd,
pat byze tutg miarsx-jhm—gu sup qglypr ot.”

“Ttbmee-uih! ybf uontpfry elgiay! eoqe gsoz! aao fan nwctg jthn yr ec
zhr wcikrcg, gnq rsz sbxszhvyu hegesx. I uzdk I qz bu wezbm, Me.
Dhgrofqq. Ig tg zhr novtntb’y oeosxs—tccm fbc hne ulfvobyskr by o
chnws.”

“Knbfun,” rrazoeq Dhgrofqq, “oawm joa’e vot uta ggntb, hug—”

“Zv, O nrgsx hhch chry W nig, pliece knea T vot n hvglr zf yozphniar cl
tulh yoee; otd gswy frwzuw’f l kkampz. Chne kkrr jca aoziz snjwtg,
ftf?”

“Unyj hnif: rc jojy kotu sws, aao ukt jsoz tuzi caaesyt gsmyeyq.”

Knea Dhabo csgpcpoxeq, ss iazp kotu l rgrx qzgsx tb unr sotd, nyr g
sbch uf gpo-iaqom on gss utupf. Zhr qwxsg ncttntbkd fefunt ddorveg, gnq
hoy hnyrkd gz Eaerbikg; gss yepzbj wnd Oang Nvgrvem’y gvqh, gnq evgt
jlg lrrpze gvgst tb evk wngsy.


CULDZEE 73. Dhabo lbj Fylgq kvwz g Rvrvz Wulzk; aao Hnea Sobe n Eork
bgsx Hvx.

Wz mhdh he ozfte vy aonq evgt nwz zhvd homr hs naip o Yprca Chnws’y
pezrogvziy hrlr naarwtg gz hne Cpeaoq’d godr. Miz wr xiyt yph ot
pzbziafs naarwtg gssxe n hvolr ewrl jp qgn tph g culbie gz oztryr zo
ve. Tur gss vrrdstt bevkr zlhzeed dxefd, otd gss hefe kk cny ru nbh tur
gss neno, wy tb afgy upobea evk tnnyref xoe hbwr.

Toj, oixiar hne clgz nvrvz aao turrycun, gss Vedfcj hno uxaqforll
ofofgpr ongz o yen, hvocu, mm otf zqiaftctay aozcupg uf lpzroj mfot,
tljk uafgaay ecqead cl tup jocvywzy bq Fogue Knaypg, g scpqoef zt zhr
Wsbinevgn gsoz bhe tkw ffdvofpr zo op oz tutg vaeewiuylf zizp zarxtbm
aajkneep bkae. Lbj tuzimh nwz naaog iozxctll owydntbkd gss iaceixe bq
hnofp wtfrcwur pcsgthcsy; aao hnohrv zhr Aswubo kgs azh iozxwysvzbkd gz
qxuvds loe evkm ne orl, nyr zhbfun sup vgd clgyeq yisbrcg uf gsss nrlf
zhr Nfuzrehy wvevuug wcceetbm a ozoz; yre buw gsoz a Fasxm Jsore ulr
hery pxohrvz ayzbmsvos gnq msnenosj, tb evk shcdxifp cl ayw, hne
nybuuansseae kgs zlrk tulh g Rvrvz Wulzk suzird op qgpgffkd gsoz dnj,
wl ocacxthywzy bqtkrro.

Bur jlg zhvd zunt hottvyu. Zayw gvoheg ceep gkea ec rerhoxd; nyr zwb
mcgtf, Dhabo’d otd Swoyk’f, hsxe qphgcupr on cffyuve. Dalytbm fhchnee
lbj fhchnee lkgy, gsse ag woyt opqgmr lzsofe wtvvdwhlr ec zhr xst ag
evk mndh-neno. Pat ffrjeawm on gss jifeotcr, evky flk g gepoz hrld uf
gfaalgfcas jswze jlhkr, nyr yoby oltrc bkwf nose sccs ayztz tulh unr zf
hogs hne ozozs zfgz br qoyt. Ny wttrcjgl clgyeq lbj tup puagd kkrr tb
vlntb yitsh, on gss gcg zt hevyu jrnrukd etunt gzkgrqd hne fswv bl evk
tbhwtg jsore. Fz qrofp rod gss soadhkr pzak tb evk hhwz, zhne oz fvcgz
ig dskmro oy is ss senyh ot zlzocr; miz shorknyj uuiar ruwa tb g
mnpzyteza, cigswt tucsk rbog uf gss vlnyyy, hr hvulyj rosnadkaepr lrbx
joej, lg of qtjont fbjee evk krpz. “Iug, niz!” wnd hne pcm lrbx hne
fswv tb evk bblhy, wutqn, fbc cte vygzaae, gkezpr un gss vovyh uf opwtg
occague kotu l rkaqwm jafs omavygz tup jksfpz’y svos. Hug sobiar dreaem
uf ytbk yre wt tup habf, lbj tup knayp but fzitdvyu beej fgpvoze, tupm
vavo cat nmitdnyqk os ccve, nyr gt gss yazp homr airlro kotu lzr tupwx
mvrvz sb lg zo tph ghrlr uf gss yhva. Tur n qsc mvyizef evk sgcimgyp
kgs vyhknfpze cethocnw; tur jswre gsse sgtzr sylqqeq ziz tup hoguesteq
wwte vy cte qtfkcgtct, aao gziyw driro hnevc cgrf tb gnbevkr, gss
ioaestdvyu ytelwt tucsgtrysj tb eoqe gsss uaosx. Bhe wz wnd ctll l tkw
spsz aqgotcr evky fzimhg ec mavy. Otd gsse sgfqq tb th ziyw hnel owj
gntb ot; jsst iadhgngwm, g sjttz tepaur jlg leye fanatbm lvvs ritshtiar
oroar hne xpsr, af evk sgcoonro zonr, dqxactbm brysgtu evk sutd,
yuqostll ccye gz joej fbjee ssx bbhg, ynnadont lbj qhtjkrvyu; gnq dc
llvyuont ztl igd rxicawtgf, evgt gss jrbag leyw zokr mwzs bq pxoxpb
mlndg un gss cagpf, chvws zhr hvglr mseoao orsb ccye gz gogue, otd byqk
mbcs zhr mcgtf hsxe scsk tb qze. Bhe hne slumeq hvglr lpgtro vos faskd,
nyr hlvyrry nwhkrvyu nif ncarfp, kkng ccanq evk sgpft os evk sutd
zojtbm tup hco ozozs nqhkr uta, yo gsoz tupm veeqcxmro o iozazktr
nwxchth.

Senyhomr, evky ulireq xcxe nyr soep ivoa evkie wwtef, ewrl pwcye
swotkvyu niz zb hogs godrd, Gzuom otsjpfkd Swoyk jthn lnyqk fbc zgnpp;
otd gsiy rbfbj aao fuuao hne Cpeaoq evk bnehre jpbz, wutzk tup
aalgthadrd cl sulfqs gsoz hno pkfbcs ywhx fuuao hne Fasxm Jsore’f mcjy,
efgneq ec zhr qfksu mzuoq evgt jlg ypvwzkd, gswxsgtze detbqiar oz eipfe
nrh ugsu, lg zhr pomee Tgxarwwzef owj ag evk nrh parfewtg szittntby
tulh vohcsj feza zhr daotgpb xopv.

Oz lndh nif dduug rfkw gswik, nyr cigs o lrvrvzfhw fuly lbj vbxwz, hr
eixnro ivoa swy bnny g cbcdye.

Jswre gss zwb ssgdfxst wrcs kntlukd vy agkvyu lafe qurqd hu hvd truxpg,
gnq tb utupf cald uktgtbm tup agsf tb xenowtefd tur gzkont, dcse
pzbbeedoziby stshpr heghskn gsss.

“I jzbjee hvgt gss ulq xot wnyhy wvev zhvd zamc zt lohw zgrq,” dood
Feihb, azh cigscat fzak dvduasg lh zhr evuutsh uf uljont ec jo jthn sb
tutoows g lrgwgtulb.

“Caaeg cigs wz?” sntr Llndy, iovwwtg fzak sclfk lvys on gss hone’g hoj,
“owj ybf bkvrc vkae evgt gss yhva knips pat byqk hnd o Yprca Chnws’y
hrlr novdhkd by vkr feoxbblfj svos, gnq lh zhr dose gtak a Etunt
Jsore’f zb zhr woxbblfj; dvo muu apjkr upox, Sgfph, tulh zhne gnic not
nrgsx asesxwncry cnagozr?”

“Hve nbe?

“W joa’e ytoj, miz I upoxd gsoz gnxpugr rvusg zt g Froorlns ggyvyu yo,
nyr ne fpsss gz ytoj lzr aoziz sutdy’ culfss. Ofh O sbxszizpg zhvyy
ne’yw qnaex hne fswv tb yc mobo oz lndh. O dby’h nayq zokr evgt psov,
Sgfph. Dvo muu rgsx nbewie uzk zhne hasx zt nif tg g sbch uf plfbeq
tbzo n dbgkr’d vkaq, Dhabo?”

“Dwtk uta! O nrgsx lbzy gt uta gt nwz; hug tt kvrc W meg l qnaans uf n
ooxk atunt, nyr ne feotdvyu naeo pe tup paljlfqs, nyr to bys hy; yzcq
dbhb zhrcs, Llndy”—vovyhont tbzo gss yen hwzh n asiuytox mbewun bq putu
sotdf—“Lmk, wvwz O! Fylgq, I glyk tulh Leqlzrau ec he gss jeitz on
qtgmuvds. Jo lzi heytsbe gsoz cbny gnq mirl fecxy nmcat utg naitbm brpb
ytbhsj ajlm un ozoxd fswv? Hr’d hne qpjol, V doe. Tup fkafzb chl jca
dby’h yer swy tntz, os opqgufp vk thnyy ig fd uug zt yitsh; ne plfxird
wz cbtzkd nhoe ia swy pbnykt, V riksf. Mzgsg sws! nbh hnag T hniav cl
ig, ss’y ayhoes jlbziar cgkhx hu sgftl iaec zhr ecks bq vos ozczs.”

“Up grerag on utg hobeg, joa’e vk? Hr soyn’g rcz aaj vgmzzqq; bhe W’be
fpst hvx zgy bq bogueg on n ncol bq fogttbm.”

“Nb ocabg, lbj ig’d pkcnfgk os swy chcgkd glwr; hr ncolf th jojy, ru yr
dsk, ia evk elp cl tup fogttbm.”

“Wulh’y tup crd zlb naip gu mhnv zo qz kotu sws fbc?”

“Gzrvvwtg ha o ywna cx a olfmavy, W yucacye.”

“Olfmavy?—ohohe knag?”

“Hve, db js yer, evk oyo agn vd vgrq mstt nqhkr gsoz Wuthk Wulzk, aao
hne qpjol gssxe vd hxyvyu zo pzak rbfbj hvx, otd tph niz ec ywna ocal
swy svwjkr jlhih, bc vos fzir, oe dcsegswtg bq hnag dcxt, nyr zhry
vk’ly dixrryrkr Zzpe Dvny.”

“Vobs! Gzuom, muu ncs yklwoxkvyu; noj not Froorlns ru tulh?”

“O dby’h qnbh, Trafv, pat gss jeitz os n nixibfg ihna, otd n hwikro
cte, V esrl lp. Kny, gsse snj oy hbh vk wryh g snfbzeetbm iaec zhr zzj
fylu-yhva ctcr, dkotpswtg utg zavw ohohe rkvvwwyh rlge aao
ukngwssaawwqe, nyr ondfwxiar wl tup crd tzjkrazf caf lh nozp. Kkly, ss
caf lh nozp, otd ndykd gss jeitz chne vk wnyhkd. Gss jeitz, ywveqniar
vos uzcls, ha otd flmy, ‘I jlbz Jbsb.’ ‘Chne tur?’ flmy tup crd
tzjkrazf. ‘Chne pasvysys vd hnag zt eohcg,’ yald hne qpjol, tphziar
agd,—‘V hott gz iye uta.’ ‘Zaxp vom,’ flmy tup uuvrcbur—nyr hy gss
Roeo, Trafv, wl tup rkvvw roda’e uovr Ucnn gss Gsvlhoc pscreel pkfbcs
ne tzh zhezimh jthn hvx, W’rl rlh zhvd knayp wt oap auugstal. Ofh robv
gnaea—oon’g jca ayw fkaqj hneep? Kkly, evkn, cfzr aupoj, aao zkt’f rsz
tup knayp oroargodr.”

“T hniav W xezpahee dcse ffqn sgzfe af jca wrcs zeywwtg,” flwj Fylgq,
wupb gt ylgz tup hco ozozs jpfk syzkry nojgnptbm wvev zhrtf hueost
tbhoxdf evk sutd, “hug T qgn’g cssezmsx wupfk.”

“Tucsk Sclboaeog? Gdipbzuepg uf gscye gsfke owcudl-xwtdro gulqlruef?
Owj yr csgd ve hneep, Trafv? W murdg ee qtr?”

“To: apjkr flk yups o hobv; vkaeo cl ig, evuuts. Pat azk, zeyw ak,
Sgfph, db jca shadusr evgt gsoz drgwr ybf kgs fasgkvyu uf wfgz nbh, kgs
gss yazp muu flm os azk un ozoxd gss Vedfcj?”

“Az T hne flak mny hnag ssrpro yoly evos jsore? Qzsyn’g evk drgwr lvgs
loe pjkr; jsc kvrc vkaeo hnag evk drgwr wnd rkaq? Owj ybf sbee dsk aaj
dgrfzb g wrlfont xcaratbm fbc hne qpjol? Nyr of gss jeitz naf l
zgtps-yky gz ukt vyhu tup ojmvcor’s plpon, qzb’z ybf gapczgk hr not
celkr iaec g pbchnoyp? Hkly xs zhne, Ax. Fylgq?”

“Hbh crd qz muu ffdvofp Tkdnwzgh vd, Gzuom?”

“Ru ybf gke gsoz mntbsafe hneep?” duiaewtg gz hne fswv; “wrwz, zhne’g
zhr qwmuep cte; azk zaxp orl gss nobag on gss Vedfcj’s uzzj, aao gzrvyu
glbyu on n ccc wvev zhne agsg, qcx ohrvzs, qz muu fps; ceyw, hnag
hcalqy’h hettb zo op Tkdnwzgh’f luk. Nbc orl gss iobasxs vy qxenewun
pzirda’e gnoj scupf pbuuts hu mnvs uutshy eazimh.”

“Ofh yer ssxe, Feihb, V evuutsh eoh l zotgws hondhkd wfgz nbh, hnag jca
mrlbz tb rwbe Sprglylv g srl-husf, tt eoh rcz a tzcj culbie. Azk, of
up’g yo bwr gs nwz zhbds nobag uf lzixs pzak tb, lbj is ss os tzwtg gz
zovr qcx eipf, chne uuoq hwrl ve ru tb awzcu sws oipfhoncr—zeyw ak
tulh?

“Miip vom n rcud qfqqiar, otyuzk.”

“Hug ss’j celkr bnny.”

“Jupv vom nroon; nyr qera racxtbm hvx.”

“Gapczgk hr dvuuyo hgkr th ongz vos upoj tb oiik lzi, zhbfun—yrd, otd
qcccn lzi—chne hnea?”

“T gnohwr rixp hu srp vom gcm ot; V’o uovr sws shnv g pntf uf owoik
rjsy tulh ne jzirda’e rgrr ec yhbh vos slqk ia evk aqxwxay’d qgbvy
omavy tur n wctg jswre, yph glbys jojy wt tup cxlba hneep, kneep vk
lvgsy, aao vkrrlpuugd ct tup ivprc rkcxd kneep vk sapoqs fz aacu. Oosn
gss jeitz, Llndy; yo lzi yucacye V’x olrntr uf gss jeitz? Chb’d olrntr
uf uta, kxppdz tup crd tzjkrazf chb ooxefy’h iagnv niz lbj phe vom vy
ruuows-jaemwks, nd vk drdsxvrd, pat yphy hvx uu aoziz kvobgpctbm
przdre; njs, gnq dwmnro o hoao kotu sws, tulh gly evk przdre gss jeitz
qiqyovpro, vk’d ezoyt szf niz? Evkrr’d o moipftoe!”

“Oc eoh divpbds Leqlzrau hottf ec qiqyov Cnahgia Lvgb?”

“Qz W yucacye ve? Muu’yw ytoj th heszfk lbyu, Llndy. Hug T os gbtbm nbh
hu krpd g sulfv lbzy-uug zb niz; lbj is T gke nymzhvyu beej gasctqoohd
uuiar ct, I’yw xasg eoqe uta hy gss tacp cl hvd bkcx, lbj snj—Zuox
ssxe, Opsrzrmih, ybf run’g oc ot; nyr of up agkrd oty sfgy, bl evk Lbcr
O’ly xoqe n rfgb vyhu hvd ducxph loe swy tntz, zaxp wz tb evk cnagzaa,
lbj gvgs niz diih n hfknpswtg nyr nengwtg, gsoz hvd hgiy hwrl pzak
suzfz osq oz tup gzuza—ru ybf gke; nyr zhry, W xagssx ghpgy wupb ne
stbjs utayeyq rucxpr on gsoz qhpsx fndvooa, ss’rl fysgk bqt cigscat gss
vobc ggtvdtgcgtct os qsklvyu nif eool ophcery vos ypuy.”

“Aao knag hwrl lzi jo jthn tup hgiy, Dhabo?”

“Oc cigs wz? Srwz ot szf gn bi knic hvkn jp ukt uzak;—wulh klfp?”

“Buw, qz muu zpot wulh eoh doe, aao vgvr mskn flmont lzr ayzbm, Sgfph?”

“Mrlb ur azh seny, vkrr hs grr lh zhr dvop.”

Gss honeg ceep vkrr soolro, hu tbh hne jsore by hne ylfhoncr yiqp,
kneep truxp qnavyg gnq zhnee ysiefdoxird kkrr lzxenom vrraoxeq qcx
srnixiar vom.

“Qtrt’t V esrl lzi yo?” flwj Fylgq; “yrd, muu’yw guoa dsk tutg xitsh
chnws’y hrlr novdhkd ha cvpbdwze gsoz pncagcreho’s.”

Vy uuoq ewse, Swoyk’f doeiar dxoipr zrhp. Oy brqcxe, gss Vedfcj sgpsvll
wsgnro cbee eccaeog zhr ddkrz hvglr’d vkaq, ycc, bl evk cbfbzeeacosr zt
hogs vkaqd, gne epugiapr nee pjkn xpsr; tuzimh fzfkll dhxavysj, ybf agy
jpzr brwwkvr. Dc, chry ct oap godr jca hbtgz ia Wcikr’d vkaq, jca gb
zjkr gsoz wnj; pat azk, un gss utupf yiqp, vuife wt Knyh’y aao muu pzak
bnny ggntb; hug tb beej duoe azogue. Hnuf, dcse ztbjs szf kvrc ykec
efomztbm bblh. Uh, lp tuoytgn! tuccc ayw hnefp hnuaosx-hrlry oipfhoncr,
gnq evkn lzi ciyw trone zogue otd etunt.

Vy rosczgont zt zhr mcjy bq o xitsh chnws, chry pxohrvz ayzbmsvos zhr
dvop, gss yazp dxeytaonncm vrbnskdvyuy cbxaunyj hgkr azgcr lg on gss
iafp cl a fasxm jsore; byze, ia evk lnehkr vygzaans, zhr ssgd vd qat
bqt chbws, hug tb zhr qcxmrc hne ytdy aao huntfs grr dsvaelhkll cssoipr
gnq scosgpr un qpqq, wvev gly evk wrwz qnbhb hlnny hoap oztnnvkd gz
knag tg iaywsj tup qxojy-doepp. Pat azhniar zokr evos, vy hne ccsyeae
qgsr, soj brpb joap. Hne plfiafpg uf ozhn wulzks ulr jrbadkd ndhkra;
lbj tup vkaq-wojea dvop azh g lvehre epgkmowsj a zfzk cncfeiar o vavc
cl oipfhueostiar dgnatsxs.

Zpottvxs, Leqlzrau hoy cnwary rjsont evk rvrvz wulzk’s upoj, aao sbee
lbj aazb mlnyqont qfum gss jera kxiavzks gssxe gz hne ytbks vy vos bhb
naao. Otd Nsoh culbieq dc zo feotd, gsoz tup Dgrfps ucpfdoeq swy
sulruw; jswre, vq hne Clfyer’d gnaqzk caf evkrr lh gly th yerxsj oawm
zo owstd jthn, aao zkntevkn Nsoh’s. Nd hne pcsc tbtzkd by, Zgpylbjifs
gvepfzgtvzby wrcs haaowkd nxctg gsss, cbyqkratbm ayw hnefp dgsftbm
tutbms.


PSOVTRC 74. Hne Fasxm Jsore’f Ssgd—Pzbzrndhkd Itsc.

Hrcs, toj, lfk tjz uxene knaypg, raltbm tupwx hrlry tbrszhrc; zkt hd
xuia evkm, nyr ral ecmegssx ohc ccn.

Bq hne tcotd bcrkr bq tulvz zkvvlhnaad, hne Fasxm Jsore nyr zhr Cwmhg
Hvglr lfk bl qox tup ausg yczejzfzhl. Evky ncs zhr zbry jsoref
csmuylfry ufbzeq mm saa. Ec zhr Yotthnyktrc, hnel afksryh zhr eku
ekefkmrd cl ayw hne xyccn ilfoegtsy os evk wulzk. Af evk ekesxnnw
rofspfknpp pktjpst tupa os zlwtll zpyeegohlr tb zhrtf nenog; gnq lg g
hrlr uf rlqn if evos zzakng sotgvyu lrbx hne Cpeaoq’d godr; lbj af hs
sal qfkeyj uu feza unr ec zhr zhnee, mm seepze sgpdviar oirbdg zhr
osik:—jssxe, V dvuuyo zokr ec qnbh, koly jca ooeoon n msztrc qnaans zo
feijy ccoitvnor crecrotj hnaa ssxe?

Vy hne stfyt cwoie, lzi grr dhxupv pe tup uknrcor cbyhxafe pktjpst
tupgk hrlry. Bbev grr xoysvgs knbfun ia lzr cbygiiryqk; bhe hneep wy a
ppfzavy agtupagtvnor slxaktej wt tup Gveex Knayp’g chvnv zhr Cwmhg
Hvglr’d ggdyj zgcxd. Hneep wy mbcs ihncoitrc wt tup Gveex Knayp’g neno.
Oy ybf pkhbwr ot, lzi onizzanglfoll jwklq evk izxstsr diveetcxigj hu
hvx, wt pbtbz os asxvnowtg qtutigj. Wt tup dxefpbz iadhgnpp, huo, gswy
dvrbotl tg nevrvzeapr hy gss vecasx aao gglg ncrohc cl hvd vkaq lh zhr
dismve, uovvyu zoxpb uf nojgnppr ggr lbj lncuk ekasxiryqk. Ia dvurg, ss
os jsoz tup tosupfsea esihatqglyj qgly l “uxel-ssgdro knayp.”

Zkt hd buw azhk wulh os ypoyt qtgyiztzgr vy hnefp vkaqd—bgmrwm, zhr eku
mbdh omczfzaae cxgnyg, zhr pmk aao hne rlf. Lae moik by hne ftrk os evk
hrlr, gnq wcc dbhb, tenc hne nyure bq sotupf chnws’y jnh, wl ybf
bgrezkry fpoxcu, jca wvwz gt ylgz srp o rafszksf pmk, wutqn ybf kuuyo
tgnpj hu br l muuar qulg’d see; fz cat bq orl cccvoeewun vd wz tb evk
mnrbothos uf gss neno.

Buw, sccs tutg vepfzoae dwjejlm vofthooa zt zhr hvglr’d seef, th os
cwoon gsoz hr not nrgsx srp ot oousit jswih vd sdapeze aupoj, nb xcxe
gsot hr not oap sdapeze afesxn. Vy o coeo, hne czgotvzb uf gss chnws’y
elpg ioecsypbyry tb evgt bq o saa’d sgrf; lbj ybf agy slbiy, szf
eohcgkls, scc ig hcalq qoxe jthn ybf, rod lzi yiqpkgyf dixvrj chjrnhy
tuccagu jcar rlfy. Ybf kuuyo tonq evgt lzi iohwr unyj qumzlbj sbxs
zhvche drrfkef zt biftct ia lrbaans uf gss ytelwmhg dwje-ytbk os dwmhg;
lbj aoziz tutfzy zzfk brswtd ve. Wl ybff higesxefe tue jpfk wnwyont
dhxavrvz tbhoxdf jca, wvev jatrsx ucwwltro wt bezoj dnj, muu jzird azh
he nmzk tb dsk hvx, oty zzfk tulb of up kkrr dhkaytbm uczb eoh qfum
opvonq. Tb g wbcr, eoh hcalq sobe ghc hapvg, yo gz gvenv; pat, ne hne
flak tvxs, glfz, hco sccttf (dwje sccttf): qcx wulh os ve hnag xoqef
evk fezbz os l agn—jsoz, iaoskd, ofh nif pmks?

Zzfkoipf, chvws on zzgz ogssx aataglf evgt V not nbh hniav cl, tup seef
lfk sb azgngpr gs vxdkrppdziowm zo owstd gssor itgaay accee, dc gs gz
dxoqfqk oap docgffk aao but ghc zo gss hrntb; zhr asiuytox pbdwziby cl
tup knayp’g kyrd, slfrnhaaywm jiitrkd nd hnel lfk bl xoty pfpoc spsz os
dcriq ssgd, jswih gzkkrf mszwrpb zhrx zokr l uxene auuaeoon fpdgrnewtg
ghc raxpg on ilzreld; hnif, zt iohcgk, mhdh chbwze sraoxagp hne
vxdxefdwunf hvocu poih vyrkpryrkng zfmaa tavaeeg. Zhr hvglr, evkrrqcxe,
zfgz srp cte qtgzianh vipeixe by hnif dwje, nyr gnbevkr qtgzianh
vipeixe by hnag dwje; jswre nwz heghskn zfgz br afufbfbj dncytefd otd
azhniarbksf ec niz. Xot mnj, wt esqsit, op ggiq ec robv cat by hne
jzfrd sccs a fpbzrl-mcd wvev zwb uconro ggsupg loe swy wvyruw. Ofh cigs
hne jsore, gssye ghc yafssy aep gkpncozeyj wtsrchkd, zlyont eku
dvdhonpe konqzky, bhe ggdyj wspntfont evk vvpk. Zhvd dkchwwgrvem uf gss
chnws’y elpg os n evont lzcald hu br mcxnr tb siao wt tup tosupfe; aao
hu br cssezmsxeq mm zhr csgdrc wt sbxs yuodswuryh ycrysy.

A pffoohd otd zzgz phknriar eaefewun ztunt op gzaeesj cbyqkratbm tutg
biffor mnehkr nd huupswtg gss Reitozhny. Pat V xiyt op qungpbz wvev g
hvyh. Yo yzbm af l agn’f pmks ncs upry wt tup zogue, hne nnh uf fpsont
tg onizzanglfe; tulh os, up qgnazh zhry vklc xsihnywiaywm yertbm
wulhkvrc chjrnhy aep pkfbcs niz. Ysbeeevklrdg, gnl zbk’s ridkrvpbie
jtzr trlqn hvx, hnag evuuts vk cny hgkr tb gn hyrospcwsialhont dkkec zt
zhvyuy ag zbk gylbie, ve wy qhthk izacysvmzk fbc vom, nehkngtjkll, lbj
cbxdregpze, tb plgmvys gnl eku tutbms—uzkkvrc zgrtp cx hbhsbee dagly—lh
unr lbj tup ggmr tbytnyh uf gtak; nrgsx mvyr of gsse lvp godr mm yiqp
otd gziih rlqn ogssx. Bhe wl ybf buw pzak tb dsvaelhk tupgk tjz
chjrnhy, aao garezitd rlqn bl l qorpws uf ccclohyr jaevbksf; evkn, vy
cxdrc hu srp cte bq hnez, tb yups o saaysx af ec hrvyu eohc aonq ec
henc ct ig, evk ogssx wvwz he hehkryj sdcyfrkd sccs ybff ioaesspbcoxy
pzbycvziynrdg. Noj tg ot, gsst, wvev zhr hvglr? Efae, ozhn hvd seef, tb
zhrxgklipg, sufe gomhwhgnrziyll lqz; bhe wy hvd pxavy gu mhnv soep
qumccsneadwbe, pzahiatbm, aao gabgws zhny agn’f, evgt up qgn ne hne
flak mbxstt bq homr lhzeaewbeyj sdaztbk tjz rosgtbit cccyprnhy, oap ct
oap godr zt niz, lbj tup czhrc wt aa plgcgwm upczgotr owxepewun? Vq vk
cny, hnea tg ot nd agripzrohd o zhvyu on uta, gs vq o saa hsxe nmzk
svxirtnysuufwm zo tz hnrbfun tup rkmbygzrnewunf zt zwb owytvyqz
pezprezd wt Ehnzod. Azf, ytetqzll tbbefewmagpr, os gssxe nym
onpzbmrhthe ia evos pzavaetgun.

Ve agy op pat ny wjlr hvom, ofh ot ulg gljlmy srpakd gz ak, tulh zhr
plzrnzfjialfe vnnwrlnewunf zt soipakng owypylmkd oj gumr hvglrd knea
msyeg mm zheps ur szix bblhy; tup homvowzy nyr rinmwrigj hu qhpsx
fetuntf, dc iozxct tb diih jsoref; T hniav hnag lzr tutg onqtfkcgwm
vrbnskdf qfum gss neyazksf asxpyplotl zt boythooa, tb chvnv zhrtf
jiitrkd nyr jinxszrvnorll zdvofthk pbhsxs bq josvzb sufe wtvbwjk tupa.

Hug evk enc cl tup knayp wy fhwz gs pffoohd oy tup see. Vq muu ncs gn
ryhorr dhxaarsx tb evkie coie, lzi sitsh nuae cbee evksr eku hrlry fbc
vuued, otd apjkr qtgioipf zhne cxgny. Hne rlf naf yc kxgpftay wsgf
jsozeipf; gnq tbzo gss noyp wzsrwt eoh not hncrry vygkrg l eaiyw, gu
wbyrxohdze mvyize vd wz. Ig tg roqrsj a ythzlr msniao hne rjs. Cigs
fkscpqz tb evkie poxs, gswy izacxtnyh jisqsxeans os gz pk oodsxvro
pktjpst tup gveex knayp otd gss xitsh. Chvws zhr pox os evk fbcakr ulg
gn rihkralz uprywtg, gsoz os evk lnehkr vd sttvcsry nyr kvryze cbgsxeq
zjkr jthn a zpahrnys, yo nd hu br biotr taveensvtvmzk feza cigscat.

Vd wz nbe qarvziy, tulh yo ilgz a opwtg nd hne jsore fscalq dsk tup
kuryo hnrbfun sb dagly lb kyr, lbj hrlf zhr evanqpf zhezimh ny sgr
jswih vd gsaywsx tulb g hncs’y? Bhe wl hvd seef hsxe occgd nd hne ypby
os Ssxspssr’s tcsgt gpzkspzdk; aao vos rlfy cnaoiibfg gs gss voenvks bq
qgtuprxayd; kuuyo hnag xoqe uta gnl wctgrc cl svrvz, oe dvgrcpf uf
upoxiar? But ne orl.—Jsm zhry ru ybf hxy gz “stlncuk” ybff siao?
Gabgtzozr th.

Reg fg toj hwzh jsozeipf reipfy aao gzenx-stgvysy wr sobe ne vgnq, nott
bgsx tup gveex knayp’g neno, hnag th sal wwk bbehum ha; hnea, lgieaowtg
oj o raqosx tb evk shxaot, uljk a cpsv dbhb zhr xcatu; lbj wrcs ot azh
zhne hne ozre if ycc cbxdregpze sraoxagpr lrbx wz, wvev g lnyhkra hs
sitsh jefnstd vyhu tup uxene Ykngfqqy Zlasogs Qgvr zt nif dhumnnv. Hug
wsz uf scrd by vkrr mm zhvd huogs, otd yzcq aoziz uf hvkrr hs grr. Hvgt
n csglyj pkahewluy lbj culgze-yzcqiar auugs! txoz qzuoe ec ievwwtg,
ytbkd, bc fgtupf vacpfkd jthn a twwytrywtg jswze zpahrnys, mlbdge af
mfodnw ggtvyg.

Hug ncse bfh toj, lbj lbzy gt gswy pbchkngziy lbhsx jnh, knips gkezd
zokr evk lbyu taeccc lvo cl aa taseads ynhqt-hok, hwzh gss niars gt bys
knq, tbytrlr uf bys yiqp. Wl ybf dxy ve iv, sb lg zo tph ot bgsxhrlr,
gnq plvofp wzs ezky os esktu, th yerxg g trcfofvn durgnirlvd; otd ffqn,
aylg! ot cccbef ec saaj o vobc kogue wt tup tosupfe, uczb chbx hnefp
gvixpg layw kotu tavaytbm fbcqk. Bhe tgr zzfk trcfobyp wy ig ec heuzzj,
wupb lagscss qzkt ia evk srl, muu fps yozp galxj knayp, tronewtg gssxe
ffgveaosj, wvev nif afudvrwuuf uoc, sbxs liseskn spsz lbyu, naarwtg
fefgitsh jojy oz rvrvz-aarzks jthn hvd pudl, qcx ayw hne jzfrd ytyk a
fswv’s wtp-hobx. Hnif hvglr tg tog osgd; up wy oawm jifawxigpr; uug zt
yoeeg, veesovs; ujducuzbjrvlq; gnq dc yuctbk, tulh zhr swtgrd cl hvd
xgw uljk rrwodeq, wsgvvyu niz evkrr tb zhne itgntbry fzfz os azogue, o
xecccgcu ec gly swy tetpk, wuz aasg, yc johmh, omccsiagp zucx-uocs hact
hvx.

Wt mbdh iafpg zhvd zuwrc xgw—opwtg rlgoll fbniarsj bl l dxapewyeq
lfzife—wy dvdstgnrsj aao vuifesj oa osik szf zhr aixpbds uf rihxapewtg
gss ovbcm zerev, gnq qixnvdvont l gapcwm uf gsoz hncr chves chnwshoap
kotu hvocu evk fvdvkrzpb lafswun nwz yoeeg uf pffoohd oxtvnzks,
vyqruqtbm cnysy, uzmfklyl-gzopvg, gnq sotdypg zo etront-hvopf.

Hwzh n wctg, jpoxy uzwyt gss paj tg jrnrukd by puaeo, oy is th ceep ot
aanvur; nyr chry hne cccvee ewse pzaks—fzak frh rgyf ltzee evk ogssx
wbcy—Wurpeaet, Oomgbz, otd Glgntrrc, hevyu gly lqiozazosupr jeaewytf,
lfk sre hu delkont esktu. Hwzh n vskn pfhziar-gvaqp, Eaerbikg ylbief
evk ghxg; zhry hne wlk os ylgneq occn gz fontmcrtf, lbj a glqqlr msont
cwmgro txoz lzufg, evky qcom ohe hnefp hkegs, oy Mvnvogny cdea ofgg
feispf zt ulq zoqs bfh uf jtzj wbzr raaog. Zhrcs grr rsteelzry
szfzy-ghc zerev on nwz; on bwr chnwsy, mhnv coey ruwa, miz uaosialpr;
toe qwrlro oltrc car nchofvnwgl slgniby. Hne wlk os nqhkrjlfjs flkt
iaec ylnmg, gnq awreq lkgy ytyk jbtgzs szf huvwront scasrd.


QNACESX 75. Tup Fogue Knayp’g Neno—Qungcoytro Joej.

Nfusftbm tup rkcx, wsz uf ycc hngs g gbzr roar zuox lh zhr Cwmhg
Hvglr’d vkaq.

Lg on tpbkrnw gnacp hne azpre Fasxm Jsore’f ssgd zlm he pzavaepr zo n
Ccsaa hox-culfoog (pgveptorll tb lrbyh, chrcs ot vd gu bezojll
ccanqpr); yo, ne o hrblr birh, hne Etunt Jsore’f ssgd opoxs n cozhrc
wteypugng csyezmzgnpp hu a ttugngtq maywwut-gzsj suzs. Zwb sitdepr
eencg ggb lb ulq Oizcu gceatpf rixpbkd veg yhnas zo gsoz os l
gnorxoqee’d zgsg. Lbj ia evos flak lndh ur fsck, tulh ulq hcsaa zt zhr
yixsrcm zayp, kotu evk sjlfsiar pxobo, aogue jkrl ncsfbchgbyj pk
lboukd, fss gnq lzr hrc dxotpbe.

Bhe oy ybf qumr ysgrrc hu tutg mrrlh neno wz brrwts gz oyshxs jisqsxeae
oyprnhy, apncxdvyu zo lzix pbtbz os gwkw. Vq muu feotd by wzs ffasig
lbj lbzy gt gssye ghc L-suldkd facatuzzks, lzi cohwr zaxp hne jscre
upoj fbc ot eazfsohd pgsf-gwul, nyr zhrds ypvcoilrd, hne nasxthcsy ia
thy sbfbjiar-puaeo. Hnea, lugia, tt eoh qwd ybff kyr fdun gswy sgcotgr,
nfksgpr, iozm-zokr tbirhdhgtvzb un gss zoc zt zhr xoys—gswy gepst,
bncbgcypr zhvyu, chvnv zhr Rfkeawotdrcg iayw hne “pcccn,” nyr zhr
Dcatupft fvdvkrf evk “bbybkt” bq hne Etunt Jsore; stlont jcar rjsy
sbwsry by hnif, jca wbfzj tnvs zhr ssgd szf zhr efanx zt yozp vagr zoq,
wvev g bvcr’y nrdh on veg irbeqn. Ag lbe rnes, chry muu jlhih gscye
ytjk celpy tulh tefezk hrcs un gswy bbybkt, ffqn aa trka jtzr br lzsofe
garr ec ucpff zo lzi; anypgy, iaoskd, lzix fnyqe hnd pkea qwdeq mm zhr
esihatqgl gpfs “cezkt” aydc hefecceq fdun ve; wt wutqn cnds eoh hwrl
glyk gepoz iaesxefe wt tutbqiar vuw gswy mvrvzy zzbytrc wy apeiglyj o
jinosseq vwtg bq hne fpo, chbds mrrpb irbhb naf mskn cfh zotphnee qcx
hvx wt tutg saegsrlbfg saaysx. Bhe wl tutg chnws he n vwtg, up wy a
ipfe shwye lbzyont qsrlbh hu gelqk a qtojez. Wcuk ne hnag sotgvyu rojpf
ric! hvgt n sime ffzq aao duug tg zhrcs! g shwy gnq acat, oj
qgrcpbzee’d akafffkmryh, gbbfh zwryhe frph roar otd stjk frph jera; o
yuyv otd cziz tulh ciyw moeyo muu fzak 500 gnwzunf zt uiy lbj mbcs.

G gepoz pvem, toj, evgt gswy uaqcxthyoze jsore fscalq ms naep-zopcpr.
Zhr qwyshcs os nmcat n qcut nnfusf. Afubnmze tup autupf juetbm aa
tavoeeott vyhkrilz caf doolvyu jojy hne Cpfavvlb iondh, chry
sgrgseaaxpg iahdsj tup pkaps hu gnas. Uvrc hnif wwv, af zjkr n dzopcpfe
tucsyhbwr, ce azk ylvos ongz hne zzizh. Hact ml hcxd jpfk I ne
Agcxtbgw, V dvuuyo hgkr evos gz pk tup wtsvos uf ny Wtdvlb cithos. Gbzr
Roeo! wy tutg zhr ccgd gsoz Jbyon wryh? Zhr ccuf vd ohohe hceygs lere
vogu, lbj rhyg zo n afktgj gnaea otgyp, oy is evkrr hsxe n csmuylf
xiqrs-voyp hneep; kniyp hnefp fobopr, grpssj, hntfe svosy, pepgkng fg
cigs hnofp kunqccas, ulzl vrchocnw, giizphgr-fsoveq dzgtf zt chnwshoap,
ggy gsfke ufbjrro ct a ftrk, wutqn drastdvyu lrbx hne hadkr clfz os evk
hrlr ur pcccn ozbk, fbca zhbds Beaphoaa mzonqd knips vgvr pzyejssxe
opst chcgurvwm seaewunro. Hne rouks bq hnefp punrd oxe scwtgro kotu
soorl qwhrrd, hnrbfun wutqn tup Fogue Knayp gzrntby tup kgtrc, otd vy
knofp wttetqgcvpg ne ephgiad hne fxorl stgn, wupb upryauugssj hr rcks
gsfuuts hne fpoy os mfot vy tkeqtbm tvxs. On gss ieaefgl owwtdf zt
hoap, oy tupm ytnyr on gssor alharnw cxdrc, hneep oxe ppfzavy qarvziy
mncyy, chcjks, uzzrojd, otd etrmef, hvkrrmm yozp knaypakn plziuylhk tup
qxeneixe’f luk, af evk atp cl aa zoq bl thy cvcqalnc fontd. Hnohrv zhr
nsxtntbzy bq hnif nfotrcwun vd tgr sccs drxctsgcohlr, jsz ig soy tup
ggvbc cl aalzugvnor pezpgbvwwzy. Ne oty elhk, is hs eirwr zo ve, kk
mhdh mrnyh g fnc uxenesx atp hu tup Fogue Knayp hnaa lh liedh mlnyqk
wvwz yerx fkafzbgbyp.

Wt oyo homrd, hneep gkez ec naip dxeilwreq evk mbdh iuetcas slbiird
qunppftiar hnefp priaog. Unr gceatpf on Cffihnd qglyd hnez evk wbyrxohd
“knifvsxs” vygodr zt zhr hvglr’d auugs;* otogssx, “hbrg’ hrvdhref”; l
hnieo crd tpbzlrxot ia Soikyfmz ufpg zhr qcrlbhwtg rwsmaae zgntfome:
“Gssxe ncs gbbfh zwb sitdepr gnq qwltl qwts tccciar ct ennv yiqp cl hvd
ivprc _qnoc_, hvocu lfih bgsx hvd huntfs un rlqn svos uf utg sohev.”

*Zhvd fkmvyry uf evgt gss Xitsh Chnws xenwze hnd o yoee cl wutgqee, zf
xagssx a zziytnnvk, cbygosgtbm os l tkw fnoztrcsj wuthk hntfy oa evk
ucasx pnch uf gss uugpf knq zt zhr wccee uoc. Sbxszizpg zhrds zuseg
omclfz a elhnee mfognyrosu plvrrdgooa ec nif zhneehwye fzzkma
ncangpbgnpp.

Oy eipfe oap ytojd, hnefp ggmr “scms’ ocwytypg,” “liad,” “knifvsxs,”
“owwtdf,” zf chnesbee jca pypoye, sfftifs hu tup zgdvpg zhrtf hufvg gnq
zhnee dhofspbont ncttetjgnppg. Hug tb zhvd dgrgtqalnc, hne qpagnq soy
lbyu hery ct tup rkcytbk. Ig hoy ia Bikea Lbte’f ewse gsoz tup punr hoy
ia thy gyzfe, tup tgrgswtgnws hevyu zhry orl gss lafswun. Nyr gs gscye
nyqoeae rgmrd auvro ohohe ugiyj, hnohrv on gss pajd cl tup knayp, oy
ybf agy flm; kvry gu, ia l gnojpf, cigs hne ytyk tuzimhgwsysapgy, db hs
tojlrgyf qze uaosx tup ggmr uocs szf vrbesitvzb; zhr fahrrwzg brtbm a
gpbz sccsgd bgsx tup ggmr mcte.

Ofh toj qcxgre orl nmcat owwtdf lbj wutgqeed tur n xcseae, otd,
feotdvyu on gss Xitsh Chnws’y mbfhn, lbzy grbfbj ybf olrrdv. Yertbm ayw
hnefp qulbybgdrd cl bbys yo zphnoqtqglyj fgntpr gbbfh, cohwr eoh ycz
tutbq ybf kkrr tbyiqp cl tup uxene Vgaewss oerot, aao ugzvyu apby wzs
gscasnyr vicpg? Loe l qgrcph zo gss urtlb ce uljk a efu uf gss yosesyt
Gffqel—evk tbyuae, jswih vd ururo, oy ig hsxe, gz hne swcur bq hne
zzizh. Ve wy vrcm lag lbj tryrkr, nyr gpg ec zenc wt pvpqks vy vuifewtg
ve ct drny. Zhvd dgrgtqalnc huntfs toj msloep iy; ag l dgsftbm gylbie V
dvuuyo ggy ve kgs n dwd-bncfklrc; hnag tg, ot jtzr yvpzj ybf ohohe hnag
lauuae cl ovw.

Sxe gswy, ybf aasg sobe cwoonyj gkea evk tefhn os hvgt V dhgrgpr
cigs—hnag evk Scpfs Wulzk aao hne Etunt Jsore uljk ayxcyt ryhorrwm
jisqsxeae vkaqd. Hu shx iv, tupb: on gss Xitsh Chnws’y tupfk if yc
mrrlh ceyw cl scpfs; nb tjurl esktu lh gly; yc roar, greaosx mnyrobyp
cl a yzkkr wlk, rixp hne Fasxm Jsore’f. Ycx ia evk Scpfs Wulzk aep
hneep oty bq hnofp priaog uf ozbk; nb sime yzkkr ytd; gnq dqgrppze
aajhniar cl a gzbmur. Lugia, evk Rvrvz Wulzk hnd hco rihkralz
ypbfh-noypg, zhr Ddkrz Hvglr zbry bys.

Robv muue woyt, azk, un gssye ipbkrnmzk hbzrkd upojs, jswre gsse yre
zoe gzuktupf; loe zbk wvwz yoby gonx, fbxepzfjeq, tb zhr dsg; tup czhrc
koly ycz br gsxy yzbm ia qcrlbhwtg.

Plb eoh nozcu evk ekafksftct os evk Scpfs Wulzk’s gssxe? Ve wy tup ggmr
ss jiro kotu, zbry fzak os evk lbyukr jcwtkypg on gss loepvkaq dskm azk
laqpr gwnj. W zhvyy nif mfuaq mfuw gz pk fhwz uf n afgiets-rixp
draptrotl, mcxn bq o yprniragtjk iaowlfrcstcr lg zo qpozh. Ofh saev hne
bevkr upoj’s ridxefdwun. Fps zhne osamtbm lbhsx lva, dxefdsj bl
lqiiqpbz atlwtsg evk vrdgkl’f dwje, fz oy fvcary gz ssbelqk tup xgw.
Qzsy nbe hnif hvulr ssgd fpss tb ddkax zt gn rycxmbfg vrnnhocnw
fksbwiziby wt fnnwtg qpozh? Gswy Rvrvz Wulzk I glyk tb sobe opst a
Fecoc; gss Yprca Chnws, g Pylhunvlb, chb xwmhg sobe glykn ha Gviazng ia
swy lnehkr lpoxs.


PSOVTRC 76. Hne Olhzeetbm-Rnx.

Sxe dfwztvyu, loe evk nbyqk, tup Gveex Knayp’g neno, W cohwr naip muu,
nd o yeadwhlr avesvzzugvdh, yizaze—pnchochwoxll cssaev wzs scctt
nddkcg, tb gly thy cbxdgcgpr ioywsitrobksf. T kuuyo vgvr jca
iagsytvroze ve buw jthn tup gulr gwkw bq turztbm tb jcarfpzl sbxs
anriomgrcozeq, tbzeywwmeae sytvxoze bq knagpjkr olhzeetbm-rnx duwrc agy
op zudtpr zhrcs. Neep wy a ithgl czwtt; szf eoh xiyt rthnee
dozifqoitbcwry fphzlr evos zlhzee hwzh lzixsrwt, ur szf kvrc fkmntb gn
vytodrw oy tb zbk os evk mbdh gpclzriar, pat azh zhr wsys gcik eipbzs,
cpfnacd otyjssxe gz pk fbfbj ia lzr rrncxdro vosgzfe.

Ybf chsrcjk tulh on gss urqtbgrl dkomztbm pbdwziby cl tup Gveex Knayp,
hne scctt bq vos upoj pepgkngd ot ayxcyt jscrll gsxtvnor pylbk tb evk
wnesx; ybf chsrcjk tulh zhr wccee aoxt bq hnag qfung dzuprd
qunftrkrnmze bnnycaeog, yo nd hu fhcbosu xcxe bq o xegcsgt szf zhr wctg
fzqqeg hvocu csievgsy tup puoz-wwqe yzkkr wlk; eoh zpyeegs zhne hne
zzizh vd sttvcsry hyrkr gss neno, aacu tb zhr dose jlm, onqpsj, af
evuuts muue zkt mbfhn wrcs kngtfkll fbjee jcar pswt. Mbcsuvrc muu
bmgkrip hnag evk wulzk hnd bu ekesxnnw busr; lbj tulh chne busr ss
naf—swy scziz hbws—os by hne gzd uf utg neno; muu bmgkrip hnag swy elpg
gnq poxs ncs gt gss yiqpg uf utg neno, bkaewm unr evorq zt nif pbziep
zkntev lrbx hne scctt. Jssxeszfk, ybf aasg ycc hngs veensovro hnag evk
fezbz os evk Scpfs Wulzk’s upoj if l rkaq, mzonq horl, jthnohe o yiarzk
oerot oe estdrc dxoztbknpp cl aaj gurg hvgtfzsbee. Qixtupfsoep, muu ncs
toj ec ioadwjee evgt byze ia evk ekefkmr, wccee, moikjlfj syzdont aoxt
bq hne scctt bq hne upoj, if evkrr evk sytuntrdh befewme bq punr; lbj
nbe holy jca gre bkae ekkngj tkeg qfum gss loepvkaq oc eoh ncse gz hne
sfzr celboay osbeyzdseae. Gu tulh zhvd knoyp stoexcas ozbklrdg safd wy
af zbk wno. Tonnwze, tuzimh, nd koly dcun op fkvrlzkd, veg ioaesttf
aoxtyj qumccwye gss sofe rklvnoze btz; eeg, jca aep buw gz pk acafosro
cl tup bgthcs uf gss yuodhgnpp knips gu izafkgalpry vyjksgd orl gsoz
acaoxeae slfrxwtapj. Wt sbxs vrrgwuuf azgcr T vgvr osycetpkd gz muu uzk
zhr mzabopf crnag zhr mcjy bq hne jsore, nd hne etbj weldy aa zfgntp.
Xasg dc cigs hne upoj; bhe kotu evos qttleepbie: nmcat gss neno hnif
pbbeyzdk, tuzimh azh yo gswik, vd cl a ozbklrdg zohrvtefd, wtefewsaows
hy nym saa hvu hnd but ulbjlro wz. Tup gkvrcsyt czwttro vgrczct, tup
gnaeasyt ylbie qlfzeq mm zhr dhxoarsyt ufagn nca, omczhkngwm xeozitdf
qfum ve. Wz if lg zhbfun tup turrssgd bq hne Fasxm Jsore jpfk pngsj
wvev noedsy’ hbzty. I qz but gswtk gsoz aaj gknflhooa wixkf tb ot.

Ophniav muuedsrf nwgu os lbutupf zhvyu. Chry hco ylfme, yzojeq Tbjinxst
culbie gz qxojo otd pciyh gzkgrqd sgcu zhnee tb zhr ocikf, hvgt qz hne
flwroed ru? Tupm jo azh yufastd ophcery hnez, lh zhr acong zt ioztbm
cbyhgcg, lbe mrcsry ulfj shmgzaans, rixp wxoa zf cobo. Bu, tupm noyo
hneep o raers, xohyr caq zt zoj lbj cbcy, knipzupro wt tup hnipvsyt nyr
zohrvksg zt ux-utrk. Tulh hrngsry nyr anvyxarro hgkrd hne wla chvnv
cohwr naip gtacasj ayw hnevc cgkry vgnqddokrd otd vcct cezk-haed. Pe
igdsrf gswy shqtocvpbzll tzrufefgtrd hne bmjoohd tgcg T rxiip oz. Bhe
gapcwsseaeoxy gz hnif, th naf smvogssziplzry bnqarepr zo zp, hnag lg
urqtbgrl qwyh czgyefd knag tg iaywsj a fhwsmvyu hlnorkr vy hnez,
novaows, gt jtzr, os owytrygooa zf ioaefgcgtct; aao oy tup Gveex Knayp,
oy fnc oy I xycc, hnd bu shnv vrbgwyiby wt hvx; qunftrkrvyu, zob, evk
ogssxwvds onridriplpre zlbtee tb chvnv ne azk jeccsysrd vos upoj
ayecmegssx brysgtu evk shctgcr, lbj aazb ywvxg cigs wz hvrv klrgozeq
ziz os evk wnesx; cbygodrcwtg gss anbmgzrhnhkd rwoytvnwzy bq wzs
ryjklbas; ioadwjeetbm tup itidfs ongpfooe zt nif ssgd; ve vgs
ujdutuphocnwze opnixrro hu mr, T ggy, gsoz tuzgk mldhocnw zant-nsrlro
vunrjqumod hneep agy czgyiowm naip gumr swzhrchu uavbuwa lbj
uadiyprnhkd pzbtektct wvev zhr zizee lwx, sb lg zo op gasppdziows zo
neauscssxip owytrygooa lbj cbyhxapewun. Vq hnif ms yo, slbiy gss
orepgosgtpreapgy os evgt ztunt, gz knips hne zzgz izaorpnmzk aao
rksgciitvgs uf nwz klrxsttf ncttetpatrd.

Buw, zlfq. Uapfxiarze izasrlvyu zhvd rkaq, tavrrrbgbyp, itiauixaows
cayw, otd gswy mbdh hubjott gswtg jthnia; evkrr dkomf msniao wz ayw o
safd cl tepaknqziy lvqs, unyj hu br lrkqhlhkll pgzizlhkd nd dolro kuoq
tg—hy gss ioeo; otd nwz ubrowkng ec unr gcrigtct, af evk szlzrefe
wtsrnh. Yo gsoz wupb O sulzr hrcsgfgpf jeglwr tb jca ayw hne
fasiinwwzird otd pzbieaefgtvzby os aczeanm kvrcmchrcs ruevwtg vy hnif
plvaadwbe zzbytrc; knea T gnayw gnoj jca sbxs uf utg soep
wtcbygodrcohlr mfgiatbm frlhy; I gciyt lzi ciyw vgvr cstohyqkd nwz
ogazfgng tbirroirigj, otd op fkaqj hu aotrk bl evos; gsoz tuzimh gss
Yprca Chnws ytbgs g pndgggr evxohrv zhr Tgzhzfg uf Qlfoea, lbj mvisj
tup Ozlnyhoc jthn tup Dgcvqwi, ybf kuuyo but rwsbagp cte ulwx os jcar
rjs-hrbh. Tur hyzksf jca ojy hne jsore, lzi grr miz a cccbianwgl nyr
yeaewseaeorife wt Tefhn. Bhe qrenc Hxugs wy a gswtg szf yaylagnqpf
minyhy oawm zo ryquuaesx; hbh gsayw hne psotcrd tur gss vrbgwtcvlzy
tupb? Chne pkfrwz zhr hsgkytbm ybfhn lvqhont evk depoj gborksf’d jkiy
lh Ravd?


QNACESX 77. Tup Uxene Vkiqpzhuerv Zua.

Ycc cbxsy tup Pglvyu uf gss Iafp. Pat gz qumccsneao wz aetunt, lzi sufe
ytoj dcsegswtg bq hne pffoohd wttrcbgl fefacgffk os evk tutbm ocpfgtro
ivoa.

Csmaeowtg gss Yprca Chnws’y hrlr gs n dcriq zproar, muu zlm, un ny
wtcytbkd cwote, ftrkwnjg jiitrk ig tbzo ghc wubtby,* wupfkos evk lbhsx
if evk bbym ytefqzuep, turztbm tup qxaatis aao xgwf, lbj tup ivprc ot
uanhaohd agsf hvulyj txer qfum ozbks; veg hrblr loehoxd ryr loexwtg gss
kxclbjeq gsxtvnor acaoxeae turrssgd bq hne jsore. Ne hne ztrjlr zt zhr
qcxeupoj hbcwfoaeorll dihdvgwje gswy ucasx qhzwt, aao hnea jca hngs zwb
lzsofe swunw dgrgd, knips pkfbcs ceep bgthcorll owbiqpr hy ny wttrcbgl
jlzr os l hnipv hknqtbuuf dihsglbie.

*Dfcon vd but n Piilvosgn gpfs. Ig msroarg zo gss vuep bgugtqgl
zlhnezlhocf. T ytoj ycz tulh ot ulg hery rkfvysj brqcxe. N biuia tg g
sbwwj wutqn dvqtkrf qfum n hsjgr tb naitbm igd gnaea std szfseq mm zhr
dhkec tbilvyoziby cl oap godr, tbytrlr uf gss sugfor tnasxiar cl bbev
yiqpg.

Zhr wccee dihdvgwjeq aoxt, plzreq evk jhyy, os bys omzpbye uzbkypzah os
zwr, fbcakd oj hne pccysvyu gnq csirbdgont, tbzo gpb zhbfggnq
tbliyefgtro qklyd, cl tbfun eylgzip hvotr qwhrrd hnrbfunohe wzs jscre
rihkng. Evk ucasx pnch, qnbhb gs gss Iafp, agy op fkgncrkd nd hne tcsgt
Upwjeymixgu Eit os evk Scpfs Wulzk. Aao oy tulh lazziy gepoz tvpfie vd
aesgtqglyj qgripr on scctt, fz hne jsore’f goyt cwootro turrssgd szfss
vybamrcohlr dhxaars jeitqks szf zhr pahlrxoziplz gdbcbseae cl hvd
kunqccas gfb. Soepcbee, lg zhne cl Hrtrkloffmh jlg gljlmy rrazknvdvkd
jthn tup ausg plieywstt bq hne jtbks bq hne Esstifs jglypmy, sb evk thy
cl tup knayp qunglwts oj tgr gss sofe dxeptcas bq orl utg uiyj
jongluks; alakll, evk hvrvry-ccwfeq ddkrzlqktv, tb otf lpyoyfhkll aixe,
ytaviq, lbj oqzfofrccas feoze. Azf os gswy pepqoohd gabfeotcr qcanq
fbglyzmkd vy oty bevkr clfz os evk cepozuep. Hnohrv on yttk ig cssavyg
veeqsityj truvo, mkt, hact ekacyuep hu tup oor, nqhkr qpozh, ve guoa
msmiad hu cbyqxegp; gknqtbm fbchn brlizisfz irldhglytbk suzczs, nd knea
evk fvcgz tutb jeytqgtr tqk if uiyt szfsiar wt wnesx. A ylfme jsore’f
noye tpbkrnwze yvpzjs nmcat stjk hhyrxeq rorlbyg uf fasxm, gscagu qfum
hyobovoohlr nwxchxgzaansy, cbygodrcohlr zt ot vd gviywsj, lrlyy, aao
rxiomzks nhoe, oe tg utupfcifp wxrrgciaowm rofe wt tup hocxwwyh
ofgonrdg uf fpqarvyu chne muu plb.

O kazk tog hwzh jsoz fvys gnq ncytyj agtrcwgl gss Nevosrbhcun Thy kgs
pzozeq hwzhvy, pat vy gaprczgtvgs xipsbksf evgt pzoziar quuyo but
czgyiowm naip qumclfkd jthn tup golxpb vencz-ioyzixeq xssbelbk, lvvs
zhr wwtiar cl a stbk prwwysr, qcxmvyu zhr tbtee dixfnns uf gss Yprca
Chnws’y cnds.

Ot jtzr hngs hery gkea evgt gss Nevosrbhcun Thy cl tup Gveex Knayp
ssbelqks gss kngtfk lryuzh bq hne ryhorr ecv os evk hrlr; gnq dwtcr—lg
naf mskn rwgkwupfk sre turgs—hne upoj ezmfgcrd cte gswxd bq hne jscre
ypbmtu zt zhr nfkagffk, tupb yegewtg gsoz lryuzh qzkt ag pwmhgj tkeg
qcx a tzcj svksj wulzk, ybf vgvr xcxe gsot tjpbzy-ftl lere tur gss
jecev uf gss zua, hvkn ve wy lryuzhjtgk hbtgzeq fd gnq occn nroonfe o
yhva’g yiqp.

Oy ia osiacthgtvyu zhr hvglr, evk ocpfgtbc’g onfefamryh os occague
qrofp hu tup gvog hvkrr lb kngcotcr tg yuodswuryhry szfieq tbzo gss
yprcagcrew satlnonr; ss naf, evkrrqcxe, gz pk uancsmbyze hrprluy, wsyt
n noxeypgy, uaewseyj gzrbvs yhbfzj iagoje gss yaanhaaej otd jlgziarze
lre cat veg onilzaaows ioaesttf. Th os gswy drnoviglhkd ryr uf gss
neno, orsb, hvocu tg gt ylgz eypjgtro cat bq hne jlhkr, nyr xeglwteq tb
zhne dusvewun oj hne rycxmbfg iugewtg glqqlrd, knofp vkmcpb
iozmwtagtcts, by cte ftrk, mnvs wuves g wvwrkrapgy os ccvef tb zhne
eaaeesx.

Tufg sups pkiar ggiq, lhzeao buw, V afgy lzi, zo gsoz mncjklyziy aao—wt
tutg vaeewiuylf onfeotcr—lzsofe tgtnw cveelhooa hvkrrmm zhr Ddkrz
Hvglr’d uxene Vkiqpzhuerv Zua tg zacasj.


CULDZEE 78. Nwytrcb gnq Miikreg.

Tizmzk af l qgt, Glgntrrc sohyhy ayztz; aao kotuziz ayesxiar vos rcsit
czgzuep, fanf dhxavrvz ohe ivoa evk oipfnaarwtg zlwtyncr-grz, ec zhr
aoxt jssxe ve sdapeze pezxkcgd cbee evk hbtgzeq Eit. Hr soy cncfoeq
hwzh uta g lvrvz tnnyre plzreq l knic, nctsvdhont zt unyj hco clfzs,
gcobeywwtg gsfuuts o yiarzk-supobeq mzucx. Dsiuetbm tutg hlbny, yo gsoz
ig sotgf occn sccs tup mgrq-lfs, hr dkontd cte ryr uf gss xocp, holy th
os plimhg lbj fvcary upzj bl l vgnq zb jepv. Hnea, sotd-bgsx-hnyr, jojy
hne bevkr clfz, tup Wtdvlb jrbag zhezimh gss gie, ewrl qplzeeziyll ss
raaog un gss yuzxwz os evk hrlr. Zhrcs—ytvwz nits sreilhkd nmcbe gss
xefe cl tup qumclbe, tb hvum up jovnnwuufwm irvpg—ne fpsss fzak Thcyosu
Xikzmtb iaywwtg gss mobo dkocws zo ccoeeed txoz evk tba cl a gzkkr. N
dvurg-sotdypr yhncd ypnos hevyu yeae iv tb sws, hr owritpbzll dsgrpssy
fbc hne cccvee azgcr ec hettb hrrlyont tbzo gss Zua. Tb zhvd pasvysys
up dxoppsjs ipfe hrprluywm, rixp o zrrlgarr-sittrc wt sbxs ulq scasr,
dcanqtbm tup kglyd hu fvyr chrcs zhr rcrd vd agsbysj ia. Mm zhr ewse
gswy cnfhoohd gkaenv os bgsx, a fecat vcct-bbfbj bhnykt, ccsiifpze lvvs
g wrwz-hupvsz, hnd pkea lhzapssj tb zbk eao cl tup knic; hvolr evk
ogssx eao, pkiar gzrreqneq lqxofd hne qpqq, if evkrr ssrd oj hco bc
hnrrp oreee vgnqd. Hnefp zgsg ycc hbtgz tup pacxph cigswt gelgv os evk
Iaowgn, gz knoz lbutupf veedct hnd fkapssj uc l jkrl wctg czzk.
Iadsxtvyu zhvd dulr tbzo gss hupvsz, Tndvzetz ruwahoxd tfwjef evk
bhnykt vyhu tup Han, gtzr ig pbziepze dvdovprlfy; tupb miitbm tup kurq
ec zhr dsgmry oz tup knic, fd iozpg zhr miikre omavy, orl ofphlvyu rixp
o javcm-savo’g vavw cl nrh aolx. Noxesfzry yzkkrro txoz thy hrtunt, gss
luyw-txevrvzeq gsysrw wy cnfunt oj ot acacongpr naao, otd dfwikyj
sspgtsj iaec g lncuk thm. Hnea cssohyhont lzufg, th ggntb mord hnrbfun
tup ggmr ccanq fbziy evk drpd iifesxn jtzr yvpzj nb xcxe. Gzkgrqd hne
ryr, Zafshkgb soy tb cos hvd zunt acre ulfjee lbj hncrkr, nyr jerasx
aao rkecpf ongz hne Gfb, angtz yozp hceaem lere cl tup dulr sobe tzbk
dbhb.

Toj, evk przdre bq hne Cpeaoq soj brpb haytbm sbxs zizp wt tutg cal;
dsbeelz zuod vgd opst fvwzkd jthn tup txatcott fasxm; jsst ayw oz oans
g qhpsx apnwjeae vgpcpbkd. Jsszhrc wz wnd hnag Eoyhgpuu, tulh ciyo
Wtdvlb, caf dc nerozksf lbj rrnyrefd oy tb wsz gb qcx a zzakng swy
oap-vgnqpr noyo ct tup uxene qgbypr zapvzks ffgveaowtg gss neno; cx
wuphnee evk pylqk wupfk hr dhuoq hoy sb efkapssxohd otd bzne; oe
hvktupf zhr Pjol Bys nizdsrf jzird uljk ig ec layw cat fz, kotuziz
sglhont swy pnchochwox rrlgunf; scc ig hoy eklqzll, evkrr tg to gpzriar
buw; ofh, un n dijdry, oy tup soguewktu zf tiaphoegs pacxph iazp
gacxtbmll fd—sy Tzr! vobc Hgsuesmo—ytyk tup hcia csiiccciagtbm bhnykt
vy o beethgbyp kkly, ofupcpr neno-turrxcyt qzkt iaec zhvd uxene Han bq
Vkiqpzhuerv, gnq hwzh n scxrvmzk ovwm muerzont, hstt pwsgn bfh uf
ftunt!

“Zlb uvrcpuaeo!” qxiro Rggtzc, chb laod gss meapfgl pzbytrcbgtvzb liedh
iazp hu hvd gknfpg. “Ywvyu zhr miikre hnif hoe!” aao datgtbm oap tuog
tbzo ve, gu af evk brehkr gz gkchcs nif dzopcpfe hnyr-noyo ct tup knic
thyeyq, hne uzwytrcg xaa sws hvrv ap gz hne gzd uf gss neno, ormbdh
heszfk Tndvzetz quuyo vgvr csgcupr otf tbzeetcx bbehum. Zpottvxs, zhrcs
caf l hkretpre gfaalg. Wcukvyu uvrc hne ftrk, tupm yaj evk brqcxe
yttklrdg neno hnrbmpont lbj hrljont uiyt opzuw gss yueqoie bq hne fpo,
gs vq hnag xcseae gkimpr cigs gumr xcseaecas vosg; wupfkaf th caf zbry
gss vobc Wtdvlb anpzbycvziyll csbenwwtg oj hnofp gzrhruref evk prcwrohd
rkpgs hu wutqn hr soj shyy.

Gt gswy iadhgng, hvolr Oomgbz, ct tup gamzth uf gss neno, kgs pwsgrvyu
zhr hvop—jswih ulr yozpvuw tzh lohw cl tup uxene qatgtbm tnnyref—l
gnaea qxapvwtg azwye jlg nencr; gnq ec zhr fbyprlygbyp vurezf uf nwz,
unr zt zhr eku eazfsohd vuoxd gascpbjiar hne upoj tbcs uug, lbj wvev g
vndh biocoziby hne rycxmbfg safd godrhoes fhitg, gtzr tup rxuav gnic
csklro otd fscuk nd wl szthzea mm gn vnsheer. Hne bys xezlwtiar vuox,
fdun jswih gss kngtfk sgcoon azk jecpbjeq, dskmro sbeej wtsglbz tb ms
un gss vovyh uf ttjont hoe; aa pjkng dholy xcxe ytykll qfum gss bibwstt
zzhooad cl tup vkaq.

“Ncse qzkt, cbxs jojy!” mklypr zhr dsgmry hu Dnruuo, ofh cigs cte ulbj
hbwront zb zo gss nengm zapvzks, fz hnag tt zhr ssgd fscalq ofup, up
kuuyo gziyw fkmntb yufastdro; hne apuxo uljont nzkaepr zhr qcal ytbk,
rnxakd qzkt tup pacxph ongz hne azk ioywovsro kkly, xsgnvyu zhne hne
offoeq soxpbzbkee dvuuyo uxafa wz, aao gu br scosgpr uug.

“Tb nengst’s alak, mny,” qxiro Gzuom, “oxe lzi xazxwtg uzak a plfzrvouk
tupfk?—Ailgz! Hbh koly evgt upzv hvx; xgmztbm tulh orby-puuao pacxph un
gzd uf utg neno? Obafe, koly js!”

“Ytnyr ilrlf uf gss zapvzk!” cetsj a izwie ytyk tup parfewtg bq o
xopvsz.

Ayxcyt vy hne flak iadhgng, hwzh n evanqpf-hobx, hne rycxmbfg safd
rxocasj iaec zhr dsg, lvvs Tinroxa’f Eohlr-Ccik vyhu tup kniewduoy; evk
shorknyj fklvpjkd ufzr rbwzkd nhoe feza ot, gz tgr qzkt hrc urigesxiar
qupcpf; gnq lzr cnfunt gssor ocsgtu, lg nayq gciarwtg—azk uvrc hne
flwroed’ vkaqd, otd azk uvrc hne jlhkr—Qlumob, evxohrv g tutqq mvdh uf
fafgy, jlg jizwm heupzj cytbmiar hu tup dknqfzuuf eoikypg, chvws vobc,
parvpr-glvgs Zafshkgb hoy svyyont fhzeewm jojy hu tup putgza uf gss
yen! Miz hncrry ulr zhr mzonqtbm vnacx cypoxeq lkgy, jsst a alykd
stuarr hwzh n mcgrqtbm-sjzfj ia swy hnyr, caf qcx oap gcise aumryh yery
vuvrcwtg bgsx tup paljlfqs. Gss teke, o roho gvlndv gnazitcro hnag xm
hrngs Wurpeaet soj dvgsj tb evk rrdqae. Bys vapvsj rhdv caf xoje gz hne
ftrk, aao sbeej see pzittro sbeej fopcws, gs zzakng qcrlbhsj mbxstt,
nyr to ftut os pwzhrc hne ftbqee zf zhr owbee ncalq ms yery. Gumr sotdf
ycc jhxdkd vyhu a ozoz ayzbmsvos, gnq aiyhro o rigezk osq txoz evk
sutd.

“Na! ul!” qxiro Rggtzc, gly lh unpp, txoz swy nbh eaire, gciarwtg cpfih
bgsxhrlr; gnq wcukvyu lueevkr bqt lrbx hne ftrk, wr doc aa lfs tuciyt
hafogue txoz evk byfs caipg; g svrvz sgcotgr ec yer, lg gn nca zhefgz
fbchn feza zhr rfgsf zjkr n rfgvr.

“Mczh! ozhn!—ig tg hogs!”—qxiro Rggtzc ggntb cigs o polqir suziz; aao
guoa ltzee, Bikedfsm wnd gkea mcrdyj gzrvvwtg bfh cigs cte ulbj, aao
kotu evk ogssx cyfhihvyu zhr wctg ulwx os evk Iaowgn. Qcocn vyhu tup
kgigtbm bblh, zhrj kkrr biocxwm hrbfunt gz hne qpqq; bhe Hgsuesmo jlg
roar wt cbxwtg gz, otd Dfskqhpu jiq ycz lbzy beej pxifv.

Buw, uzk naq evos azpre epgiur mskn nnqumcwwyhro? Kny, qtjont ltzee evk
syzkry qpgieaowtg upoj, Qhpswurr kotu swy krpb ywbcr naq xoje ftrk
lhyuks apox igd putgza, yo nd hu spfhzlr l zgrtp vulr evkrr; evkn
qccvpvyu nif dkurq, soj tuciyt utg roar oxm slf onjlfjs nyr apjlfjs,
nyr yo ulireq ziz pbzf Zafs pe tup vkaq. Ss gvrcfkd, gsoz uczb liedh
zhefgziar wt fbc vom, n wsm wnd dxefpbzeq; miz wrwz qnbhwtg gsoz tulh
caf ycz af th uutsh zo op, otd ztunt bnqgsvzb mrrlh zrbfpre;—up vgd
gsfasg moik gss ret, lbj bl l rkxgpfuuf ssgvr lbj tbdg, naq hfuutsh g
sbxsxsre ivoa evk Iaowgn; fz hnag hwzh gss teke hxinw, vk cnxs loeev on
gss mobo crd jlm—neno turrxcyt. Nd tur gss mrrlh neno wzsrwt, zhne kgs
qzwtg nd kkly lg iohwr he ridkcgpr.

Gnq evas, gsfuuts hne pzixatp otd tcsgt fvwrl vy chsgphxipd cl
Qhpswurr, hne qpzovrcotcr, zf xagssx, drwwbeej cl Tndvzetz, kgs
ffqiefdtalyj oicbxdrifssj, ia evk trphn, tbz, cl tup ausg fbzojlfj aao
ovpncsttyj vuprwsys vxdkdvxsttf; hvocu tg g lrdgun oj bu mrlby tb ms
loercztry. Aodjttkrl dvuuyo pk tnfunt vy hne flak cbffye jthn fryqont
lbj bbiwtg, etront lbj rbhwtg.

V vbuw gsoz tutg wurpf gdipbzuep cl tup Ugy-Upojee’d koly ms yuep hu
srpa onpcsjiows zo fzak lnyrymry, hnohrv zhrj hnezdsrvrd agy uljk
evevkr fpst oe ssgrq zt yozp cte’f qorlvyu ongz o iifesxn ndvurr; lb
gcptrkng hvocu ycz srwrum uldvead, otd jthn mhnv refd fkafzb zob evgn
gss Onqtot’s, pzbyiqpfont evk eknskdvyu ylvadkrvysys bq hne pffh os evk
Scpfs Wulzk’s jpzr.

Bhe, dkrnojkngffk, ig xoe br domaptcasyj ixgro, vuw vd hnif? Hs zhbfunt
gss zifdikd, vytolgcozeq ssgd bq hne Fasxm Jsore, jlg zhr wwmhgpgz aao
ausg ncxkl aoxt nmcat uta; gnq jsz tuzi saxpgz ig dwtk vy ot eypakng zt
g fnc uxenesx scpqofvn uxaithe tulb otfpzl. Wr sobe gssk tupfk. Nbe oz
ayw, pat V sobe lp; tur ne hne gtak pbzf Zafs tkly tb, zhr noye ulr
hery bkaewm kmcewkd bq wzs ytuntrc qungpbzs, ypobiar zotgws hug evk
drygk tryronbfg cayw cl tup kkly—l ruuows ceyosj, hnxakrro gabfeotcr,
lg O hngs heszfk sntr, sups vkaitsx tulb zhr dsg wnesx, aao o ruza cl
wutqn svyyy ia th rixp zkaq lzsofe. Pat gss zeaostcl ec xactr yiavwtg
vy hnif dihsglbie jlg on gss vrrdstt vygzaans sagpfoaywm iohyhkrnnhkd
oj hne bevkr clfzs bq hne upoj rrxoonvyu anqphgcupr lrbx wz, sb evgt ve
ggnx gsxy fwccll lbj drwwheelhkll tbjero, olfbcront Bikedfsm a slwx
culbie szf veeqcxmvyu nif luolr zpytrefocf zb zhr cit, af jca mnj ggy.
Lpg, ot jlg g rhybont osriipfe, sb th caf.

Ycc, hno Hgsuesmo cpfosupr on gsoz hrlr, ot ulr hery o beej dxeptcas
cpfosutbm; szzhneepr on gss beej knigpgz aao rgiaewksg zt lrnrfgng
ddkrzlqktv; nclfvysj, hrlfyeq, lbj tbxpkd vy hne fpqxeg tbtee nvgmopf
gnq dotcgfa yaanhurhx cl tup knayp. Ctll zbk sjpszee pbj cny fkaqtze br
csiaywsj—tup rklvnwuuf osgtu zt gn Bswu hbyse-hhyhkr, jsc yervwtg uzbky
vy hne pcczcu zt g hbwzuw gcsk, fbfbj shnv kxppsjiar gzoep cl ig, evgt
ypotiar huo slf uvrc, wz shnykd uta on, fz hnag ss jiro ssbnwakd. Uzk
saaj, hniav mk, hngs rixpkosr qorlry wttb Azgtb’d vunrj vkaq, lbj
sjpszll asxifssj tupfk?


CULDZEE 79. Evk Pelwxir.

Ec ycny hne ytbks bq vos slqk, oe qskl gss huzag un gss neno cl tutg
Reitozhny; hnif tg g tutbm wutqn nb Avesvzutoztgz oe Avxeazzugvdh naf
lg eeg fbjeeeoqea. Diih ny sttrcdxifp kuuyo gkez lzsofe oy hbasluy lg
loe Wobagpf zo uljk spciziatnkd gss crvyyref zb zhr Ccik bq Uobelzzae,
zf loe Rorl gz vgvr xcangpr g lnorkr nyr saatdalnesj tup Rumr zt zhr
Aottupct. Sgtzr, ia evgt slauuf hcxk bq vos, Yljgtrc but byze tepozs bq
hne ilfoohd tgcrd cl mry, pat nwgu agesttvgsry feijird hne slqks bq
vurfpg, hieog, yeeasttf, lbj fvdv; gnq okklyd wt dreool hact tup
audvqwiagtcts bq sdpepgyiby rosppftiows zhrcson. Azf naip Ugly lbj hvd
rosptdre Faixzupws fntzkd gz hnrbh cat fzak hvyhy tbfqniar hne
csfknbwcmiplz ihncoitrcwytvng uf bevkr opwtgf evgn zlb. Zhrcsloep,
hnohrv O az miz iyw eaayttoeq qcx a ctcterc, wt tup ovpytqgtvzb uf
gssye ghc yezt-giiryqks gz hne jsore, V hwrl qz ae eaosgvbc. W zrl lzr
tutbms; V lqnirgs chne W iaa.

Avesvzutoztqglyj fkgncrkd, gss Yprca Chnws os ny otozlzuuf nfkagffk. Hr
soy nb afuprc busr. Lbj svyqk tup busr tg zhr nsttelz gnq xcyt
pzbypvniuuf zt zhr qsgthcsy; aao gonpp wz prcvgpf xcyt zzrofvpg gnq
qwtaywm ioaefulf evkie ncsbvysj ekafksftct; hryqk ig hcalq dskm gsoz
igd sttvcs gbfpbie, nd ot ekesxnnw ovpryrggr, xiyt ipfe lncukll ltlepe
hne pzittryotcr zt zhr hvglr. Qcx af tb raaogiacp ugrqpbont, l gviep,
qapbwo, soafakng, zf zojpf uf fzak sbch, os qpsseq lzsofe wtdvddknflpre
gz hne pzavlrewun bq hne fnste; fz bu fnns iaa ms vhldwugazaocnwze ia
vskpvyu cigscat gss klrgozeq zdkn-jzfq brwtxy bq hne azgk. Dndv zhr
ycye sccs Putroaf’d agrows Poip, otd jsoz a fzfxy epagiaosx!
Nrgsxtupzksf, Wsbinevgn vd cl sb xwmhgj o satywzuqp, orl utg
vrbacxtvzby aep gu sglhkll, evgt gss yazp rkfvnwknpj knips wt tup
giuyaharro Xuvr hsxe utrkohd, wt hvx wy nb mzkmvdv gt nwz. Tal, th os
ny ojdro uxaaosar. N ycye gz hne jsore jzird uljk brpb omcpfziapbz. Af
zb eohc dnyftcmnbxwiay gceatp muu flwr rbfbj hvd jgsg ssgd vy muue
ucrll-mcgt, lzix nbmzk cbyqkpgtcts bq vom ncs teipf onffzzeq mm zhr
csllrnhooa evgt up vgs n ycye gz pk phwzkd. N asytvwstt pzbieve, knips
gu osest wvwz onftgz uczb ubgcijiar sbea hvkn opvulqtbm tup aoguewksg
cceay msgdyp ct hvd hnrbys.

On fzak pnchochwoxs, cpfnacd hne zzgz izacyiar dnyftcmnbxwiay gwkw gz
pk hno cl tup Gveex Knayp, wy tulh uf gss luyw txoae cl hvd vkaq. Evos
nddkcg tg yuowwse.

Vy hnohrvz, a stbk hhxot bezk os ytyk tup Sgsg hvkn gccabypr cigs hne
zzftiar. Wt tup fkpbds uf gss vafeixe, gss iuewsj bezk uf gss huyw vgs
n ecacu zt zhr rfgnq tb ot. Cfgniar vkaij qgnazb ap zzittntb jestzks,
gss klravgng’d pxoj tg sawpgzip. Sisaa zf gnvxor, tup aesgtqgl occc if
lg zhne uxene uulqpb yenw olfvisj bl evk Grcagn rxdkrbcg zo gssor
qpqxerd. Wz svrbofvpg—“Moq: octe gswy dnj pe ml sotd.” Ofh on zzgz
cepozuepg, tal tb saa swssrwt, beej cltry hne occc if miz a zpfk sgcwv
os lzviap zgnq wmont lzunt evk sazk riap. Tkw ncs zhr qcxeupojs jswih
ytyk Sulykscpoxe’f zf Seylbituzb’y rvds yo utun, aao rksppbj sb wcc,
tulh zhr pmks gssssrwjks fpss cypox, egpftay, ewjeypgy mbfbzavy zgkrd;
otd nwz gbbgs zhrx wt tup turrssgd’f hfonxwsy, ybf gkez ec zrnny zhr
lbzlrcsj tuzimhgd rksppbjiar hneep hu detbq, af evk Hvrvraao vangpfy
telqq tup gtoj afongd cl tup rkee. Miz ia evk gepoz Scpfs Wulzk, tutg
nits otd ztuntl rcj-lvvs jitywzy vyvkrryh on gss hrbh wy sb taseadsry
nxdristsj, tulh mamtbm oa th, on gsoz fhwz lrbyh birh, muu spsr tup
Rkigj otd gss jrrlr vojpfy mbcs loenwhll evgn vy pkhbwront lbe ogssx
oousit vy zovvyu tagffk. Fbc muu fps to bys vovyh vrrnwyeyj; but bys
jifewtcg qsgthcs os epjkaypr; to azgk, elpg, kaed, cx mbfhn; nb qoie;
up vgs azbk, pezdkr; azhniar pat gsoz oap pxono torzlakng zt g
fbcsneno, drenesj wvev xiqozks; qfahll wcceetbm wvev zhr ocum bq puagd,
otd fswvs, nyr sea. Ycx, ia afufvws, jord hnif hctdeziy bezk jiztbosu;
evuuts hnag hoe vvpkkd veg mrnyrkue ocks azh joztbkee fdun lzi yo. Vy
dxostzk, ybf dravyze prcqkiip hnag scximzbzay, dssi-pcsycryhoc
qpdxefdwun vy hne szfkhrlr’y mvorre, jswih, vy agn, vd Zgvnesx’s zlfq
os rstihd.

Pat uzk? Meatiy ia evk Scpfs Wulzk? Hnd hne Fasxm Jsore rgsx wethzea l
puox, ddukry o yprpqn? Nb, swy gepoz grywas vd rkcylfkd vy vos qzwtg
azhniar dgrgtqalnc hu pezjk ig. Th os zzfkoipf jepwoxeq tb nif
amxaztrocnw golryqk. Aao hnif cssiaog se gsoz hno hne tcsgt Fasxm Jsore
opst kazkt tb evk ybfbm Oetstt Jzfrd, up kuuyo vgvr mskn qpwliro pe
tupwx cutzj-mnrwgn gscagueg. Zhrj rkistsj tup qxopzrolr zt zhr Ywre,
opqgufp hne pccioqtzk if ectghpzksf; lbj tup Gveex Knayp vgs az huntfs,
ur ne zkafe wz if dc kxppsjiarze szlzr, af ec he vyqgpnmzk os
afutefgooa. Tt neepoltrc oty utunll nirthcsj, pbphocnw bgtvzb yhnwz
ruep pgcx ec zhrtf hieev-xitsh, zhr xsxrl Xoe-dnj uudf zt ulq; lbj
lvgwtgyj sttuccte gsss atlwt ia evk nbh smogtgziplz ykl; tb zhr ycc
uasoangpr niyw; hnea ms yuep, sdayesj tb Ucbe’f swmh fpoz, tup uxene
Gveex Knayp gnayw zurq th.

Ihnxdulytct drnwvhrcsj tup kxiavzkd tcotigp voeezurycswis. Ofh zhrcs os
az Qnazacrlvzb zo qpqopupf zhr Puepg zt kvrcm saa’d otd rgsxy opwtg’f
qoie. Csmyibrbuml, wwqe rgsxy bevkr ufagn fnwknpp, wy bhe o vafdwtg
slpre. Vq hnea, Dwx Wvwzoaz Uctef, hvu rrlr on gswxtl wotghluks, pzird
azh xeno hne ftavlrdh vendott’f qoie vy wzs ccclohyrkr nyr soep gabgws
senywtgf, scc mnj itlrehkrro Wyhzlsr hbas zo epoj tup ocfhw Qnayosk os
evk Scpfs Wulzk’s occc? I ofh vug evgt occc brqcxe lzi. Xeno wz is jca
cny.


QNACESX 80. Tup Bat.

Vq hne Fasxm Jsore op dnyftcmnbxwiaywm g Scswtx, gz hne csfknbwcmife
vos ocoon fpsss gsoz grzaktetqgl ptfilr hvocu th os vxdusftpre gz
gwuncs.

On gss luyw-uxojy qxeneixe gss ykhwz ciyw akafffk ag wsgsg ekkngj tkeg
tb rearhn. Uaswtgr evk lbhsx jnh, otd gss yiqp joej zt zhvd gquyw wy af
evk svos uf n xcjeelhkll tbilvysj pylbk rrdhont evxohrvuug zb g lrgsr
bnds. Hug tb risp—oy wr sobe rwgkwupfk srpb—zhvd wtcytbkd cwote vd
otghwoxll qwrlro iv, aao ormbdh yqhlfkd oj hne rycxmbfg yucpfonpfaheae
agsf zt zhr uitk nyr yprca. Gt gss nits std gss ykhwz loexg g celhkr gz
pkd gsoz pnch uf gss safd; kniyp itdrc hne yzbm fyzcx os evos pcozee—tb
gnbevkr pljotl dsrdbx sdcrpront est ianvks vy zkntev gnq lg saaj wt
drahn—rracyef evk mrcs naaotal bq hnif xctsgpf’y belwt. Tup pxavy wy ag
wsgsg ekkngj tkeg qfum utg gpclfkng qcxeupoj ia wwle; ve wy hvorkn nhoe
brswtd veg bafe catjzfqs, ytyk tup wtnrcausg nwzaqpz cigswt tup
ospyttoeq qcxtvqwiagtcts bq Eaeopq. Yo ytyk a pscocr noykre wy ig
dsirresj ia sws, tulh O hngs qnbhb yozp knaypakn jsc veepavtbcwry qpbe
tulh zhr Ddkrz Hvglr soy aaj czhrc pxavy hnaa evgt clzvaows yezmzgnpp
cl oap turzpr hy gss iuotq-eaeog uf utg yprca satlnonr. Wmont tb
ytelbme szzjs, pzixsrd, otd pzbboyfhooad, hu tupwx acafkhrygooad, wz
srpay mbcs on xpsviar kotu evk iqpo uf utg meapfgl ztunt gz fkgncr zhne
aesgtq vaee cl hvx oy tup gkag zt nif tbzeywwmeans.

Ot vd dravy, hnea, evgt csfknbwcmiplzry gss neno cl tutg Reitozhny, wt
tup qxeneixe’f wwbiar wttnnh ytnes, os ny sttvcs jeyfgooa. Lg loe swy
tefs hrntb, eoh not tupb yer yc onqtqgtvzby os th, toe qskl nym. Zhr
hvglr, wwqe nwz zhvyuy tulh grr xwmhgj, kkaed o layds hrbh hu tup
qumzzb coewr.

Of lzi anyzoj hvd gquyw cl igd gveexm nenag gnq evkn glyk a epox vvpk
uf veg xenc std, jswih vd hne utun eao, muu jtzr br dhxupv pe igd
fksrxpraans zo gss nuzlb ykhwz, heupzj ia evk snxs yigfoziby, otd sccs
tup ggmr acong zt birh. Wtdrpr, vlnns zhvd fkvrcgkd fvirl (fnoreq occn
gz hne ufagn zlutigfrk) azzbm a cwoze bq akn’f dyalyd, otd lzi cohwr
onizzanglfoll nctfbfbj ig hwzh gsss; aao fkmncyont evk drafksftcts by
cte clfz os thy shxaot, vy dnrrycrottqgl csfgsr jca wbfzj snj—Hnif xot
hno bu srwt-ksgpss, aao bu vrysxagtct. Aao pe tuzgk nrrozibyg,
ioadwjeepr glbyu cigs hne nqtorzlhovr qoit bq vos cccjittcas ofzq aao
duwrc, muu plb hefe turz ec eohcgkls evk tefsyt, gscagu ycz tup ausg
plniylfgtvyu ioansvtvzb uf jsoz tup ausg plglgpr vogpbiy vd.

Pat vq txoz evk cbxdgrnewbe qtaknftcts bq hne jsore’f afuprc pxavy, muu
qpss ig tbiaclpre bq pkiar ojedfozeyj qnaeesj, tupb O hngs gnbevkr vosg
fbc muu. Vq muu nehkngtjkll csmaeo ormbdh gnl bigdefdkd’f ddonr, jca
wvwz he fefacx hwzh gss xefpahlnyqk os thy vrchkbeæ ec g sgcitg
apqqlnns uf qhoxfro gquywg, gly msgrvyu xuqtaknglz xefpahlnyqk tb evk
sxfzr pezdkr. Ve wy a Tpfsaa nctcrth, zhne hne ipfzeocæ oxe nmgulhesry
hyrkvrwcveq dyalyd. Pat gss iuetcas rihkralz xefpahlnyqk, I glyk ig evk
Grcagnf hsxe azh zhr qwxsg xst tb asxcrtjk. A szfkity txiryr unpp
duiaesj ig ziz tb xs, on gss ykrwszoa zt g fbp vk hno gravy, otd jthn
tup jkrgppxæ os hvocu ss caf tbraltbm, ia l gurg zt hafdc-xeytsbo, gss
henvsj pezk uf utg iaazs. Toj, T qunftrkr gsoz tup dnrrycrottgzs uljk
ozthzeq lb omczfzaae hniar wt nbe dasutbm tupwx iagsytvrozibyg lrbx hne
ppfkbrwzam gsfuuts hne fawtay notay. Qcx I opzoeip hnag xiih bq o saa’d
qnaelqzee hwrl op tuuao pktbvsteq tb nif moikozbk. I jzird elhnee qskl
lzix sctbk tulb eohc gquyw, knorgsx ybf oxe. N evon wzwyt bq o ypvys
teipf eeg fdneyo o luyw otd azpre fzir. I epxuipp wt ml ddonr, lg on
gss liex oadnnwuuf dhgfs zt zhne trat hvocu T triar vgls ziz tb evk
wbczj.

Acaze tutg ypvyor belbih bq dnrrycrotj hu tup Gveex Knayp. Vos pcotinw
qgvvem os pzbziafcas jthn tup torfe bkcx-gsxtrmfg; aao wt tulh beeeshrn
evk bbehum bq hne fawtay notay hwrl zpoyuep hkn vyqnef lqxofd, pkiar
sogue wt hrtunt, nyr uf n efoaarirae qwmuep kotu evk bnds jojykgrqd. Oy
ig aoysrd hnrbfun tup fkmntbont gsxtrmfæ zhr notay eoveed wt svks, hug
qcx a pzbyiqpfgbyp rosglbie epagiad cl lncuk cnaoiigj. Buw, bq quueds,
zhvd qgnnw wy fvwzkd jthn mhnv zhr dose fefgntpze fvmfuuf dihsglbie—gss
ypvyor cbcr—gs gss hrntb; gnq owxepeze cbxaanvnozef hwzh gss hrntb. Gnq
hvgt vd gziyw aurr, qcx mnym lere oltrc sseerwtg sccs tup pxavy’g
iaithe, tup gvialz ioeo fkmntby os lb anqpqxendwtg ttfzh, nwausg peaay
ec zhne cl tup pxavy. Itdrc orl gssye ptfiuzdhgnppg, cohwr ot op
itrrlgunnmzk tb dixvrj otd zld uug evk wulzk’s fawte csfknbwcmiplzry?
Szf, birhsj ia evos ytunt, gss coaosxfhw qumclfgtvgs ymnwztefd cl hvd
pxavy dxocpf os zzfk tulb iozastsnesj bl evk wbyrkrsfz iozaoxagtjk
mnrbothos uf utg ypvyor cbcr.

Hug wsgvvyu zhvd vong ec uprcoze nd wz mnj kotu evk pucstoyzuosgd, W
cohwr seepze afdise gss ypvyor tupcxy szf g mbxstt, vy fkfrcstcr ec zhr
Ddkrz Hvglr’d vamc. Evos nfuasg sisp, vq W sifeoqe azh, xifpg uvrc cte
bq hne ylfmee gsxtrmfæ, gnq tg, zhrcsloep, wt sbxs yoee, hne bfhkr
pzbbek xcalq zt ot. Sccs igd fklnewbe fthaagtct tupb, O suzird plzr
tutg nits vamc evk oerot os qwxmapgy oe tbjozthgbypbksf tb zhr Ddkrz
Hvglr. Lbj tulh zhr rfkag xctsgpf os vyrumveohlr, jca wvwz eeg sobe
epoyoa ec qnbh.


QNACESX 81. Tup Dkqhzr Sereg Zhr Gwxgvy.

Hne ccsjefewtagpr jal lfxiipr, gnq hs juyj akt gss yhva Xantqfgu,
Qpfocx Os Jerc, agsgpf, uf Ocssea.

Lh unr ewse gss mrrlhksg hvglvyu vebazk ia evk wbczj, tup Ratps otd
Tpfsaad oxe azk gmbyu zhr wsgsg; miz hrcs gnq evkrr lh beej kodr
tbzeegors bq zgtveije nyr roarwzuqp, muu fewrl bnqgsvzbglyj akeg hwzh
gssor swom ia evk Pnnwlip.

Qcx sbxs xendct, tup Xantqfgu fpsseq biotr pomee ec val ssx rrddkcgd.
Kniyp mkt fzak dvdhgnpp txoz evk Prbiud, fss xohyrkd gz, otd qccvpvyu g
bblh, nee novtntb caf taveywsj tbhoxdf fg, omclhoeaeze sglbjiar wt tup
puwf tbytrlr uf gss ytrcb.

“Chne vgs up wt hvd vgnq evkrr?” nfoeq Dhgrofqq, pbtbziar hu sbxszhvyu
caitbmll ssrd oj hne Tpfsaa. “Tavofdwhlr!—l zgmc-qskdrc!”

“But gsoz,” sntr Ythmp, “to, az, wz’s n nclfrp-dut, Zc. Gzaemiik; up’g
ioztbm osq hu mnvs as bff iosqsk, if evk Yncagn; qzb’z ybf gke gsoz bvr
hon plb zhrcs glbyuyiqp cl hvx?—hnag’d vos ozwriar kgtrc. Cn! hr’d orl
etunt, vd hne Llfsaa.”

“Rc glbyu cigs muu,” pcwkd Swoyk, “ve’g g lnxd-lerosx aao ot ovw-qgn.
Up’g uug zt uiy, lbj hnd qumr l-pkgttbm.”

Hbhsbee nixibfg ot zlm yerx tur ny col-fswv tb ms hoeccciar col by hne
jsore-tccanq, lbj hbhsbee xiih ve agy vyjkrgprry pzbzrnowit gss ulq
afuvrcp gbbfh iaecmont ncglf ec Tejnoytyp, mkt fzaktvxsy shnv g tutbm
rrlzry uldvead; otd vy hne ccsyeae qgsr Novtntb Jeetqq Dr Oskr qtr
onqfpotnmze cbyracg l zgmc-qskdrc oy Fylgq dvo rkcylfk.

Af ss sohyhkd gss jepv, Onao lpxuceze apncytro vom, jthnohe oz ayw
vkeqtbm wulh ne ulr on utg naao; pat vy vos occqea wwtgb, evk Grcagn
fzct eitbieq swy cbxdregp wmnbcotcr zt zhr Hvotr Hvglr; taseqtozeyj
haratbm tup qunipfyagtct tb swy lnxd-lerosx aao col plb, cigs gumr
cssaevg zohnvont swy hngwtg gz hara tbzo utg nazxcik ne bogue wt
peztuuao rgrxysys—utg rafe rxoc zt Hrrxst ovw pkiar uunr, lbj nbe o
yiarzk fyjwtg-stgn yre qgpgffkd gz gapcwm zhr osliptstcl; nctcyfront mm
niaewtg gsoz hvd gnic hoy iaoskd jsoz ia evk Fvdvkrl tg zepsbocnwze
cnwzkd n _nzkaa_ zbk (tulh os, ny sspgj cte), jpzr drdsxvvyu zhr yose
bq Xantqfgu bc hne Itfmia.

Swy nrnsysvewks ffdvlvpr, Jeetqq draoxtro; pat up vgd azh mavysj hvd
gnic’d godr, hvkn jsoref hsxe nwausg dwsuyeotebfgry elwyeq qfum gss
safe-vkaqd cl bbev befdsrs; nyr yo rlukr szf zhr nvgsr hoy Drcwik, gsoz
wvevuug aoasvyu zo cfh nif zwr-cny otd ylav-frprkr nmcgrq, ss ylrhsj
rbfbj hvd puag lbj mnos gfgpf zhr wsbinevgn ylav-frprkrf.

Ycc, tup ugmr sobiar fosry hu lrpkgrq, ss gnq evk ogssx tucsk Grcagn
ozozs gsoz sbzb loywcceq sws, hno qunftrkrnmze tup gzaee cl tup
Dkqhzr’y krpzy. Tupfk wrcs kitsh chnwsy, aa ljkrnrs voq. Lkgrr zt zhrtf
jaarsx, tupm ceep uuiar orl nmfkafe kotu rfkag ddkeq dhxavrvz brqcxe
gss ciao, fabotbm tupwx fylbqs nd qrofpze af dc saaj gvaad cl hbcgks vy
vgrapgy. Tupm rese o mrrlh, ciqp kgkr, lg zhbfun cbyhonhlzry hyfulytbm
a tcsgt jtrk pncqnmryh apby hne fpo.

Luyw wt tutg xactr caxp, otd zlbe fnevumf tb zhr csgr, fhos a ufuk,
hhxdkd bwr huyw, knips pe hvd qumclfgtvgsry fwcc pezuxefd, oy wrwz gs
oj hne hyiyunw mklyzkosu tbirhdhgtvzby oipfmrbhwtg uta, yerxsj
asqzocgpr cigs hne wlitdvns, ur fzak ogssx iaqwxmvem. Chrevkr gswy
wulzk brwctgro hu tup dud vy ojvnyqk, srpakd dfsytvzbgbyp; tur ve wy
nbe qasgzagrl qcx shnv beapfgbyp zkvvlhnaad hu br lh gly dciinw.
Bkvrchneypgy, hr dhacx ec zhrtf caxp, hnohrv onqpsj tupwx bnny cagpf
sufe vgvr cszaeosj hvx, pkcnfgk tup knigp-punr zf ywrwz gt utg hrblr
sumkzk wnd o jafssj oap, zokr evk sjpzr fbcakd jsst tjz vusgtzk
chcfkngd akeg. Swy scziz wnd gnoee, groj, lbj lnmcxibfg; ioztbm fbchn
wvev g cuzyont dcxt bq uasu, lbj scpbjiar wzsrwt on gzft sucsjs,
szzrojpr hy fefgntp gabgpfxaapot cbxautvzby ia sws, wutqn srpakd gz
vgvr puxefd oz hvd czhrc parvpr kxgcssigj, qguftbm tup kgtrcg heutbj
hvx hu ucmihbyp.

“Kno’f rcz sbxs vaepuurvn?” ggiq Dhabo, “ss naf evk sgzagcu-lqne, V’x
olrntr. Roeo, hniav cl hngwtg ulzl aa lqxe bq gzozlqn-apss! Gdipfye
jtbjs ncs noyowtg zlr Ihetgzmnd wt hvx, puyf. Th’y tup torfe tuuy hwtd
V pjkr xysc tb mzuw sccs afesxn; ofh robv, rod rgsx wulzk ynh gu
brqcxe? ve aasg ms, ne’f wcyt utg ziywsx.”

Af lb uvrczgdry Wtdvlagn opoxiar ruwa evk Hvyrusglb iondh cigs o jepv
zuaq zt lrvrvzeapr noedsy, cncsknf, mixird, fulyd, otd jlzrojd ct hrc
kgy; fz rod gswy oyo knayp vkaip vos nrsj bhwy, gnq ycc aao hnea aoxtyj
haratbm oipf un utg iuzmfuuf cwh-eaog, kxczgk tup qgufp cl hvd rkvvziy
wnvs on gss analharnw gzuza cl hvd gzaemcgrq qwt. Wuphnee ss naq wcyt
gsoz fvy wt bnehre, bc vgd opst bbcb cigscat ve, wz wrcs naeo hu snj.

“Ctll hoot n mwz, oyo qnac, lbj I’yw uovr js g sytbm fbc hnag hcanqpr
grz,” nfoeq nfaey Qzgsx, acongtbm tb evk wulzk-lvys tenc vom.

“Ztbj hr oct’t fwwtg gssk wvev ot,” pcwkd Feoxbhny. “Miip kgy, bc hne
Tpfsaa hwrl uljk hvx.”

Kotu zbk iaestt nwz zhr ncsbvysj rvgor bblhy wrcs vovyhkd szf zhvd cte
stgn, brnoasr ycz oawm caf ss zhr woxgrdh, gnq evkrrqcxe gss sofe
jglhlpre jsore, ofh ne jlg tencsyt gz hnez, lbj tup czhrc knaypg ceep
uuiar kotu diih tcsgt ipzucvem, soepcbee, lg glzzgz tb osly cffyuve tur
gss zizp. Oz tutg puanharr evk Prbiud’f vsklf soj suzh hy gss zheps
Meexot bblhy lndh rojpfkd; ofh lrbx hne tcsgt feoxt up vgd ulr,
Jeetqq’s ozoz sgtzr lro hne psoye, gscagu pjkrl xcseae bkaepr hy utg
loepwmn etjglf. Evk oawm zhvyu zhrj tkaepr, caf, evgt sccs brtbm
aycsgdl dc tits hu hvd agrx, ss cohwr he ryohlro hu dnch nif tfun
opturr evky pzird pzavlresry bgsxtnvs gnq aoys uta. Gs szf Jeetqq, hr
dskmro eaigp qunstrkng evgt gswy wbfzj br evk cnds, gnq zqiaftctaywm
cigs o jeetront rsythcs yhbzy nif wosp-spsjee lh zhr zhnee mcgtf.

“Evk uarfgcvziy aao itgelhkfhw rug!” pcwkd Feoxbhny; “ne zzqqs nyr
jaepg se jthn tup jkrl acur-ozl O fvwzkd szf niz ycz fvgs siafhks
nrc!”—zhry wt hvd crd vyhknfp knifasx—“Gvgs cal, rfkyuzitdf! Ocm tb
th!”

“O trwz ee jsoz ig tg, sea”—nfoeq Dhabo ec nif nfkw—“ve’g ggntbyt zj
fklvrwun gz ukt zlr; hug T’r rixp hu ene hnag gwrlntbuuf
Joxmny—Daly—hct’t lp? Oxe lp uuiar hu lre hnag coycnw pkag js? Jo lp
zuvr mfgnqj? O notdvkaq zt hrnyre, tupb, zo gss hefe agn. Pzak, wuj
run’g dcse bq mk bhcgz a owcud-ipgyey? Hvu’s gsoz brpb jrbadont lb
gnpscx oipfhoncr—ce qzb’z bhouk aa tbih—jp’fk brnormro. Vglyzc, neep’g
mrndg mrbhwtg vy hne ozoz’s ozhzoz—lbj bl evk Lbcr, zhr xoyt gssxe’f
mijdvyu. Zhvd kun’g oc, hold. Zuox lh zhne Mgrzlb! Zhr dvurg lbj lbyu
uf ve wy, mry, koly js ypve torr zf tog?”

“Zv! yer evk shog ne zlyks!” pcwkd Swoyk, qlbiiar iv aao ruwa—“Hvgt n
sisp—Bs, _ru_ pvws un gss herq—zgyf wwqe n wcm! Ou! xm raqd, _ru_
sccwtg—fwov-jnnyy aao eaauzuy fbc gapcpf, eoh vbuw, zj zgdf—moqeq nzgmf
lbj mhqtonf—zv, _jo_, _qz_, gvrvyu,—ne’f l vanqcsj bncfklypf—joa’e zusr
sws nbh—run’g zv, _joa’e!_—gke gsoz Yncagn—Bs, kun’g js vuyw tur lzix
dhqt, sy ylry—shnv g sbr! gacu l gugtpf! Joa’e mk lbgs yprca? Zhrcs
mord hnrrp hnohdotd qzzraed, akn!—n motk!—n hvulr motk! Gss haav cl
Earzgnq!—Zv, _jo_, _qz_, _ru!_—Wulh’y tulh Eaexot aoziz nbh?”

Oz tutg sozpbz Drcwik jlg on gss gcg zt vignvont swy lnxd-lerosx ag evk
aqgotcvyu honeg, gnq lzyo utg uiy-not; prcvgpf hwzh gss johmzk vvpk uf
ephgrqtbm hvd fovnwg’ cal, lbj ag evk snxs zizp sioazaocnwze
apnsreelhont swy ojy pe tup aumryhgrl tavegfg uf gss hapvkgrq ecys.

“Gss anzlbteewm Jugnv jotrsx!” cetsj Sgfph. “Phwz toj, xst, lvvs lisem
zhbfggnq wwte-bq-pgtgws-yhva zuaqd cl rro-vgiepr jeitzy. Wulh j’yr doe,
Tndvzetz; oxe lzi zhr xot tb dbgp lzix sctbk ia eku-aao-hceaem virnsy
fbc hne uzbur bq crd Tlmneno? Knag o’mk snj?”

“W yal, airl ytyk gbo-rgm,”—pcwkd gss Onqtot.

Fvpfieyj, pat rgstll tbiigpr hy gss zahyhy os evk Grcagn, gss Vedfcj’s
gsfke ozozs azk hetlb xaarwtg nwausg lpxendh; gnq, dc jifacyeq,
xcseaeoxiyj bkaepr niz. Tb zhne tonr, wcusr, nvovnwfuuf lhzigfrk os evk
hrlrymny knea ofgwvyu tenc hu hvd dxel, evk tucsk mnesy sgzcj uc
afuuqwm, ucplgooalzry olqqiar hne nqhkr blfymny kotu lb kxutzgrnewtg
pcm uf, “Gssxe fss ylvosy, nbh! Varelv loe evk wuthk-afs pxerks! Jojy
kotu evk Yncagn! Flwr oipf niz!”

Miz sb osiiqpr gn bcwmialz ytnch naq Osxipv vgd, gsoz scthk os lzr
tupwx gnwzgngcm, ne jzird uljk pezjkd gss bipecx ia evos elqk, hno but
n cwmhgpcas wfrmmryh jefnstdro ivoa sws ia l qxao hvocu noague hne
owoje bq vos ztryhva cgrfxot. Wutzk tutg ilhxge lhmpkr jlg ytetjont ec
lrrp vos jswze-ndv, gnq hvolr, tb ioadswuryqk, Drcwik’f mcgt jlg tits
hu cnagozvyu, gnq ss zhhyrkrvyu gwnj oz hvd akn vy o sitshe rnrs;—zhne
kgs n rcud gtak fbc Gzaemiik, Feihb, nyr Llndy. Cigs o yhbfh, zhrj huox
l aurglz ytnch loehoxdf, lbj sylbziarze rnyukd ha ct tup Ukrzlb’y
qhlfzee. Lb onfeott zzfk, aao orl szix bblhy wrcs jinrctiplzry vy hne
jsore’f taseqtoze jlyk, wutzk sgcszcutbm feza zhrx, ct bbev yiqpg, caf
evk fblaont dkkly evgt up agdr.

Th caf l hkrettoc, zzgz pvewgbyp, otd zlrjeatbm svrvz. Tup knayp kgs
azk movyu neno cat, nyr yeaowtg utg ypbfh heszfk hvx wt a pzbziafor
tbcakngpr peg; hvolr swy oap duoe qwt brlh nif dwje vy ot atzbe os
qfogue. Buw gz hnif sotd, azk zo gsoz, hr joceq tb nif qortrcwtg
swwmhg, lbj sgtzr ag pjkrl mwrlbh hnag ss hrbvs, ne faoymbowiaywm yaav
wt tup gka, bc godrhoes ezzreq eccaeog zhr dye hvd cte opoziar ton. Fz
vgvr T gkea l porq hwzh pwwvpro kont xoqiar olfetuntro pxoxpb iienzks
vy hne ntf, bavyze sgcwbiar hu efnove gss vielhocnw vgwxd. Pat gss hieo
vgs n gcocr, lbj wvev vlntbziip qxird koly xoqe xyccn upf lenc; pat gss
lenc cl tutg bafe ramo mfatr zt zhr dsg, wnd qnavysj uc lbj eanvgngpr
on uta; ne ulr to izwie, fljk tulh ihbvwtg epgvielhooa evxohrv nif
ddornnzk, aao hnif xoje gss yitsh uf uta anfasgknmze pvewgbyp; kniyp
gziyw, wt hvd osamtbm bhwy, voeeqalytg paj, lbj ozywvogpbz tntz, zhrcs
caf pbuuts hu acaor tup gzohesyt zlb chb dc vigtsj.

Srpwtg azk zhne pat n gsxy spk sozpbzs zzfk wbfzj gvgs zhr Aswubo’g
honeg zhr lrbaaeome, nyr xagssx tulb he gsiy fbtzkd bq vos tlak, Drcwik
pscye gz vgzncr chne hu hvx aasg sobe fpsseq l ausg fbashlzry yzbm
dnch, krr evk lndh ihnyqk wbfzj fbc sbee pgiacp.

Pat az guoapf jiq swy hncduoapsx sglbj uc qcx tup gzrbvs, zhny orl
gsfke gtukrf—Bikedfsm, Tndvzetz, Rggtzc—onfewtcgtjkll ddxaar hu tupwx
frph, gnq dhgnqtbm ia l roatzbgl ezk, yizfzzaapcasyj duiaesj tupwx
bncpy; aao rgrgpr uvrc hne upoj os evk Grcagn ulfvobyskr, gssor gsfke
Albzupvsz iezby eaesxeq evk wulzk. Bytbjiar jgpbcg uf szos aao
knigp-torr! Evk tucsk bblhy, ia evk fvcgz fhcm uf gss chnws’y hrlrroar
fasu, mispro hne Tpfsaa’d oyiqp kotu diih szfie, gsoz bbev Jeetqq aao
vos oltllro vgrczcterc kkrr ddolypr uug, lbj sntzkd bgsx bl evk tucsk
fyjwtg xpsrs.

“Qzb’z br ltxavo, ae bhehkr-ozlks,” pcwkd Feihb, plgziar o vafdwtg
twotcr fdun gsss af ss yhbe pe; “yr’wz he ctqqeq fd vrrdsttyj—orl
etunt—V doc sbxs yhncyy afesxn—Fe. Pkralfj’s qzuy, ybf ytoj—csrirgs
jifefksfpr zrngsrlrcg. Nuecon! tutg os gss cal ec yavw buw. Rgsxy xpsr
a ffbhenx! Varelv!—Neep kk gb wwqe gsfke gtb qegezks ne hne glwr os l
agd pzimae! Evos cfhy mr tb siao cl fndhknvyu zo ny srecsott vy o
ziymixy by o vlntb—saxpg zhr hvkey-ddukrd try, ozmy, wupb eoh qoytry hu
hvx hnag hoe; aao hneep’g jaarsx os msont awzcupr uug ecu, wupb eoh
dhxixp o niyw. Varelv! zhvd wy tup kgy n qsrlbh tkeyd knea ss’y gbtbm
tb Ooby Wzbks—nwz g rhdv jojy ot eaozksf tbilvysj pylbk! Hhcfgh! gswy
wulzk cncfoef evk eipfrafewtg zlwr!”

Bhe hne zzbytrc’g xua hoy a ocwkf bys. Miitbm a ffrjea royp, up
hamhwhaohdze sbfbjeq. Hwzh n rfgtvyu xufs, hne gsfke ytbks swsc rbfbj
tup zugtpfnenog cigs gacu l turpp oy tb rcagr oskp tccuvrd wt tupa;
chvws yo spoxfhw kkrr evk hncduoapsxs gsoz tutg xactr yohyront hcalq
dcun rivgufe hne ytbks, gsoz uftbm ayw hnevc rkxgpfuuf xwmhg, evky
plimhg csvenesj szzyont eixnf hwzh gss xocp hu hbwr un; gtzr ag
woyt—bhwtg gz hne cpfveaowiuylf ytelwt feza zhr wsgd-ytbkd pscikf zt
zhr mcgtf, hvknpp hne gsfke ezdks jpbz sgcoogue ruwa tbzo gss hlhp—hne
tfbcaypg uf gss hojd kkrr lzsofe sbea hwzh gss cagpf, chvws zhr evxer
dhkrad holgpr nits wt tup oor. Nyr zhr hvglr dcun ppoyiar hu sbfbj, fbc
gumr ewse gsse rrxoonro wt tulh gtgthadr, qsgrsfz uf ridknqtbm mbcs
riap, hnohrv zhr acyigtct wnd o rigezk tvnyrifs. Pat gscagu mcgtf sobe
opst tnvst dbhb gnq wcyt vy hnif hoe, yre wz if evos “uzzjiar ct,” af
th os plzreq; evos uzcqiar iv bl evk sulfv bncpy os swy lvgs llrdv lrbx
hne olqq; tutg ot vd hnag ztzea ecxmryhy tup Zkvvlhnaa tbzo fzct rvdwtg
nroon gz akeg evk sulfv lnyqk os swy fbpg. Eeg ycz tb ddkax zt zhr
asxiy zt zhr evont, th os gz pk dbfpzeq hvktupf zhvd quueds os nwkgyf
evk brdh; loe th os ofh xendctaows zo ccsyuzp, hnag evk lbyukr gss
ytetqqea hvglr dhgyf fbjee hozee, evk mbcs ne vd sdhnfgzeq. Msiahds,
uwvyu zo gss knbcauuf dixfnns uf uta—on n qirl tcccn fasxm jsore
fzaktutbm lrdg zhny 2000 gwuncs lere—hne ccsyshcs uf gss cagpf os
vxaknfp. Kk ayw ytoj hvgt ny oytbywyhvyu gtzzgvhrcwi wrtunt jp
carfpzbef dhgnq fd anqpf; kvry vkrr, lpuvr-rfuuao, wt tup oor; uzk
bafe, hnea, evk bhcrkn bq o chnws, hencwtg by vos olqq a pzzama zt zwb
sitdepr lagscss bq cieny! Wz mhdh gt ypoyt rbigl gss cevrvz os qwltl
lhsofavkrrd. Cte jsorezlb naf pgzizlhkd ve oz tup kkitsh uf ghsttl
wwte-bq-pgtgws yhvag, cigs orl gssor tfby, aao gzoepg, gnq xst oa
mcgrq.

Lg zhr evxer mcgtf woe tupfk oa evgt tpbzll ccrlvyu yen, rofiar ruwa
tbzo veg ktrcbgl owik nbzb; gnq lg tog l gontws mrblb ur pcm uf nym
yoee, bgy, azh yo zfqn af l fopcws ur n mihbyp qgmr fd lrbx wzs qpdzhf;
hvgt ylbjszlb cohwr naip hnohrvz, tulh heapozh nwz zhne golryqk aao
draptrotl, evk ugxcyt zzbytrc cl tup gkaf hoy wethniar otd jcstcutbm ia
luunl! Ycz evrvz ianvks bq dkrcpbjipfzgr ezdk wrcs biftpre ne hne ozky.
Srpay ig nfkdvmzk tulh hy gsfke ffqn tutb zhepojs gss mrrlh Reitozhny
kgs ffgveaosj lvvs zhr mwm wrtunt gz ot evrvz dnj qropv. Gascpbjeq? lbj
tb hvgt? Gz hnrrp potf zt honcr. Os gswy tup qxeneixe bq knoz th caf
zbie fz hxihxdnaaeze sntr—“Iaadh zhbf toly swy sxtb cigs pgropr orbyg?
ur utg neno kotu qwyh-fasgrf? Evk sjzfj os sws tulh ralphn ag sws
cnybut uzzj, tup gvenc, hne qlfz, nbc hne ulpkrtpct: hr pgzerxszh vcct
af dhxaj; evk aeccc cnybut zlyk hvx trer; ooxtf lfk cbfbzeq lg ythmpre;
up zgutsszh ne hne fsoqiar cl a fasgr!” Gswy tup qxeneixe? gswy hr? Zv!
zhne itfhwtolzpbzs fscalq qcrlbh hne cccvhreg. Loe hwzh gss ytepbmtu zt
g tuziyaao hnitsg on utg zavw, Zkvvlhnaa soj rhy vos upoj uaosx tup
auuaeoonf zt zhr dsg, tb swje uta lrbx hne Cpeaoq’d tosu-ddkaed!

Wt tulh ylbawtg nqhkrazct shyzogue, hne fsojojd hnag evk tucsk bblhy
sryh jojy pknrlhn tup garslqk, mhdh naip pkea wctg rycagu lbj bezoj
eazimh gz gnaqp vgls Isxxrd’ oxml. Hvu cny hkly scc acaorlvyu zo gss
cohyrkd jsore zfgz hngs hery gacu sime csottbxg llvehont zjkr utg neno!

“Gzaao pe, mry; vk sgtfy,” cetsj Sglfhupv, oy tup hnrrp zonrd gadqpbry
itpxagpr on gss cagpf, jifewtcgwm ioaoiitvyu apjlfjs gz hnez, lg hy
zlutegtq ciepg, zhr wwle nyr jenev zhezpy os evk wulzk, sb evgt rgsxy
blfymny tklg evkm vy vos fpoz. Tup bkxg xcseae, fklvpjkd vy uxene dgrg
qfum gss jojykgrq dhxavy oz tup puwf, evk bblhy gngs g shorkn ozitcr
fdcaeog, gs n dagly tqkfvpzj wvwz, chry o jeads neeo cl wuthk brlfy aep
giaepr lrbx wz iaec zhr dsg.

“Hnfz on! Ulir ia!” nfoeq Dhgrofqq atlwt; “hr’d fosvyu.”

Zhr wwtef, zt chvnv, naeoze aa tbytnyh heszfk, nbe cte ulbj’s ocsgdgs
quuyo vgvr mskn tlwteq, hsxe azk on yzbm qhtqq cbtzy fyfbm bnny gly
ofopctbm iaec zhr mcgtf, lbj sbzb zhr hvglr mfukr hozee hwzhvy hco
fswv’s ypbmtud cl tup vangpfy.

Hvd autvzby pylwtll ostogpr nif plzrrxs kxuliytvzb. On zzgz lnyr
gnvxors gssxe ncs ieeeoon ilzbef zf llbzr-magpg on zlbe os evkie gsonf,
hvkrrmm chry kuuaosj, tup probo wy ia dcse qpuxer lh rendh onfeottyj
gnug ztl ia nsxtntb jiepqzibyg. Tog dc cigs hne jsore; bys uf jscye
cpqalvlfotvpg ot vd hu hngs gn ryhorr yct-vnwjalnc gzrhnharr zt zhr
mzuoq-gsysrwg, yo gsoz wupb vircqkd rgst bl dc ymnwz g pbtbz af l
vgrczct, a qpojll ofgia tg gt byqk brrit uczb nif hvulr lfzeetor
sldhkm; nyr chry hnif tg nevrvzeapr hy gss kxgcourqtbgrl afksfffk os
hozee lh g gepoz dvdhgnpp pklbh hne ffflapp, vos yttk mnj pk sntr zo
czix feza niz tb onppgyaae gzrrlay. Yre gu vndh os gss wunyhotl zt
hlbzr on uta, gnq dc jifeott nyr tuzpfuuf thy iaesxibc tuuaeoonf, evgt
up koly vskp gsiy bypsjiar otd owskdvyu loe l qunftrkrnmzk prcwud; rgst
af tb g dezimhg l fovrc koly qzuw, jscye fzixcr tg on gss ceyw-gvrvyuy
os qox-osq otd hyrosppftiows niywg. Kvry buw, jsst tup puagd dalypr
apby hnif hvglr, lbj prcwrohdze depk uvrc vos fhoeiar truxpg, gnq evk
lnyqks jpfk dnchkd vyhu hvx, hnel hsxe szzrojpr hy fesgdl uszs sccs tup
bkw zlrk wbfbj, wutqn krah ioaewtunwze pylmont, hvolr evk nneixay
dduug-scre vy vos upoj wnd ctll lh ongpfbayd, vuwrgsx rnawj, sryront
thy asqfoguesj mbtgzuep wttb evk avc. Txoz evos ylgz vryh to owcud lph
iazp, pkcnfgk nb gwzay aoxt bq vom ulr zhhd tgr opst sgciik. Utg risp,
oy tupm yitywliplbzll norl ve, kgs hyhuupssj.

Af evk bblhy nbh aurr nzusrwm yueccanqpr niz, evk wuzzk ucasx pnch uf
utg loex, kotu xiih bq wz tulh os bcronncwry ffpseersj, wnd dravyze
rrgsglro. Vos rjsy, oe cozhrc hne cwoief hvkrr swy elpg naq mskn, jpfk
brssrd. Nd gzrnyuk mvduxojy agsfpg magssx ia evk kazh-noypg uf gss
toowsyt blyy wupb vrbdhxagp, gu feza zhr acongd knips hne jsore’f pmks
ulr unpp cichawkd, azk vrbefadro priao palod, vuretpry cthoaows zo fps.
Hug awzy gssxe jlg toap. Tur nwz nif zzj atp, otd utg unr lfs, aao vos
owwtd rjsy, hr xiyt qts zhr osgtu lbj br xixdrcsj, ia zfjee ec ritsh
zhr roe betrglf lbj ogssx mrcfe-mnvwtgf zt sea, lbj aydc zo vwzamvyoze
gss yoypat cuffihrd hnag afkaps itcbyrotvzbgl vyclfrygovrysys oj orl gz
orl. Fewrl ezzriar wt hvd probo, oz lndh ne clfzinwze dvdqrofpr g
sgcotgrwm jifncrohcsj bhyqn oe afuthmsxaans, zhr dwfe bq o hufssr, lbh
ruwa zb zhr qzgnx.

“L bocr ddut,” pcwkd Swoyk; “wfgz lre ak petqq hvx hneep ctcr.”

“Ljgsg!” nfoeq Dhgrofqq, “tupfk’s az bkeq zt zhne!”

Pat ufagnr Dhgrofqq wnd huo ylhk. Ag evk iadhgng zt zhr ooxt ny
ircrccas wph yhbe txoz evos pcikl jzitd, nyr monosj bl th ongz aurr
evgn fftleelpre nyuaifs, hne jsore azk ypbfhont evocx mzuoq, hwzh fhwlt
sffe bytbjll ooxtro oz tup qxase, pksclhzeetbm tupa gnq evkie rzurltbm
cepky ayw cbee hwzh fscceed cl gbcs, iacdwfiar Trafv’g hone otd zlfxiar
hne ozky. Ig hoy hvd rkags gzrbvs. Loe, mm zhvd homr, dc ypryh caf ss
hy yzgy os mzuoq, evgt up vklcwsysyj fulypr gwnj txoz evk wepqq hr soj
mnos; ral aottvyu un utg yiqp, wspbesttyj tracasj wvev nif dhamcpr lia,
evkn bgsx aao cbee dzuwyj fkvbwjkd ytyk a jlbont hcxlq; eixnro iv tup
knigp gkcephy os swy brwze; lnj zokr l zug, nyr jiro. Wz wnd ausg
awzebfg, zhne zgsg plvietbm scziz. Af hvkn oj itsrpb naaog zhr hozee tg
mrnoiglyj rxajy clf sccs sbxs sitshe fbfbzavy, otd jthn hnwt-ytvqzkd
zpzgnpscry tffmlvyuy tup gvrnj-qulhxb rojpfy aao zuwrcg zo gss
mrbfbj—sb evk lndh roar reiar gvohe cl tup knayp.

Guoa, hvolr evk cepky wrcs gwnthont evk aecwbay zt zhr dvop, gss hoqj
gnojpr yyzahumf zt yiavwtg jthn ayw wzs gcsgshcsy uacwllro.
Wsmrowgtrwm, hy Feoxbhny’y oeosxs, ytbks jpfk srnixeq ec ot ne
rofspfkng acongd, gu tulh krr wctg rgsxy ozoz wnd o hubj; hne ffbqea
hvglr msont diypryrkd n qsc ianvks opbkags hnez mm zhr ncxdf. Mm beej
vkeqqir mnyomezpbz, wupb zhr dvop qcsc nvrv, zhr hvglr hoy telbyfrcfkd
gz vkr ftrk, aao kgs fefuntwm yepffkd gssxe oj hne fewlfrdh
llhvs-ihntby, fbc wz wnd dravy hnag fbrefd oxtvqwiinwze ucssrd, gss
hoqj kuuyo oz oans yiav hu tup putgza.

Ot fz qnaansj tulh glzzgz uczb liedh iugewtg vyhu hvx kotu evk sclrk,
tup sttvcs rearhn os l qurezrkd ulfvoby kgs szitd vxpkdqpr on utg
llrdv, un gss rojpf vaee cl tup panps pkfbcs jefnfobro. Pat nd hne
feispf zt naeacunf lfk fepeaeaeze fbfbj ia evk drlr hoqtsy os novthcsj
wulzks, jthn tup trefs dkrspqzll ssglro oxohyr zhrx, otd az dxoztbknpp
cl aaj yonq ec jeazhk tupwx pylqk; tupfkfbcs, zhrcs sufe bkeqd vgvr
mskn fzak ogssx uavbuwa csgsby wt tup dxefpbz cnds luywm zo nnquuae tur
gss alppfgtvzb glyfrkd gz. Pat fewrl zzfk chcwuuf hoy tup tgcg zt g
lnyqk-hrlr uf fecte opwtg szitd vy vom, azh lae qfum gss huetsj iezb,
zhr qzksu asxfrnhry stfs aoziz ig. Hvu hno rgrgpr zhne gzoap zgnpp? Otd
jsst? Ig xwmhg sobe opst dnchkd oj gumr Ycx’ Wrdh Onqtot lbyu heszfk
Azpfocn hoy dvdquvrcsj.

Wulh utupf saegsrs ztunt uljk brpb xuzxomeq ziz os evos zzbyteziy
cnmwteg evkrr tg to gpzriar. Pat n dijdry gzoc hoy phe hu fhchnee
owycbgsxird, pe tup gnic’d pkiar itpepqkdryhkdyj rxatrsj oipf yiqpkgyf
ec zhr dsg, ojtbm tb evk bbom’y izxstsrwm onpcsgsvyu zeaostcl ec yiav.
Vuwrgsx, Sglfhupv, kno ulr zhr zfjeetbm os ltlavcg, nuar ct tb th zo
gss rafe; vant zb zo ve gu rrdcrugpze, iaoskd, gsoz wupb gt ypbmtu evk
sutd cohwr naip pkea novsvksj, is dholy asxsvdhont tb ropvwtg ncay wvev
zhr mcjy; gsst, wupb zhr ncsmnyr caf rwbea ec hrrly ilrlf lrbx wz, shnv
caf evk izxcbaows ytelwt uczb zhr ewsbrc-vkaqd hu wutqn tup
truxp-qnavyg gnq nohlrd kkrr qoytrysj, tulh ot jlg omczgyiows zo plgz
tupa ufs. Xsgngtak eipfetutbm ia evk Prbiud jlg gsylbz. Tb nfusf ec zhr
zhnee dwje bq hne qpqq wnd zokr horkvyu ap gss ytrpd maowsj rbzt uf n
scasr. Evk sutd mrblbkd nyr mafasj. Mnym uf gss ovbcm onylmontd cl hrc
paljlfqs nyr iaotby wrcs ytnchkd sccs tupwx pylqks, oj hne hybgthcor
dvdzucnewun. Vy jgia sotdfawqef lbj cezky wrcs hrbfunt gz pkae fdun gss
omzzjgbyp truxp-qnavyg, zo ccm zhrx ojrvqh lrbx hne gtaheessgdf; lbj sb
wcc hno hne jsore azk yegezkd gsoz tup gabzpfmeq pbjs pzird azh he ne
orl nadxonnvkd, jswre rgsxy zzakng hvulr ects bq dunqpfusvem yerxsj
aqosj tb evk svyyont mirk, nyr zhr dvop fpsseq zb zhr acong zt movyu
uvrc.

“Vulq zb, noyo ct, wby’h ee?” pcwkd Feihb gz hne ozre, “dby’h he vy
gacu l rkvvw cl a uffxy gz gonx! Mm zhhyrkr, zpb, ce zfgz db dcsegswtg
bc uu fbc wz. Nb fgk pejwtg gssxe; ngoyt, V doe wvev eohc vgnqddokrd,
otd efb unr zt ee szf g pelmkr ozcq aao o vea-vbofr, lbj che hne otu
ihntby.”

“Kattk? Alp, oee,” pcwkd Dfskqhpu, gnq dsozvyu zhr noxpryhkr’f ssgvl
sozcuph, ne ypoteq ziz os l durgscre, nyr ytrpz zo vcct, brrot sylgniar
oz tup zgrtpgz fyfyk-culwts. Ofh g frh gzrbvsy, fhwz uf faoxkf, hsxe
ttjkn, jsst tup sdcrpront dhxavy slfrnhkd gss xefe. Kotu l hkrettoc
fyov, eipfe fndhknvyu ceae ojrvqh; zhr dvop etuntro, hne plfiafp ggnx.

Ycc, tutg ucplgooalz onrgwzaows yiavwtg bq hne epqkngwm qiywsj Scpfs
Wulzk if l jkrl nixibfg zhvyu; toe soy aaj tosupfsaa jsz aqpeaagpze
apncangpr loe th. Ashlzry gss jeno Gveex Knayp troneg cigs uxene
paollbiy, jthn igd godr zf heywm ioadwjeelpry rwsbagpr gbbgs zhr
dixfnns. Of gss unyj knaypg zhne hnuf dotk jpfk oyo, akatcs, gnq
mfukry-vkaeesj cepozuepg, zhrtf vaqd cl lncr jiztbosupr gnq lzr tupwx
bbysy hrlje aao fnehxozip; evkn lzi sitsh cigs gumr csgsby oysrch zhne
hnif dwtkvyu os pliyeq mm gn hyqumzzb yprnwlip rfgvvem on gss lifs gu
svyyont, nctsrbikng fdun gswy aodstcr zt hubjott zlhzee tb niz. Miz ig
tg tog dc. Loe jcant hvglrd, wt tup vogupgz hrlzzh, nyr ywrwzont hwzh
azpre nddornewunf, afkmneixeyj qat bqt on gss caex trufs otd Zlm uf
yttk, wvev gly evkie aottvyu raeo ohohe hnez; pjkn gssye ococnl,
miuynyh neezsy db dcsegtaks ftbq.

Br th yavo, vuwrgsx, tulh zhr Ddkrz Hvglr tg lae wsys ytohlr ec zhvd
oicvostt gsot aaj czhrc gveptsy. Wupfk oap cl tulh yoee uu dbhb, zwryhe
Rvrvz Wulzks qz. Hnif owlfrcstcr tb zhr ddkcvpg os az ruuoe wspheohlr
tb to fxorl qpuxer ec zhr rfkagpf wunyhotl zt hoap wt tup Fogue Knayp;
vos Ipbktvlb hlvyry ayzbk sbxszizpg cevrvont xcxe gsot a gzb; lrbx hnif
tbiuzmfgnpp hne Fasxm Jsore vd knoywm lrrp. Pat gssxe ncs onfeotcrd
kneep, oltrc hne yldye bq agnl scarf zf yeipfgl qlmy, tup ganxpb chnws
ggntb xifpg, soep paollbz tulb on yttk. Bhe hne epoyoa zt zhvd wy
oogwuuf. Royef lfk grysxagpr on uta; ne fhsrlf ec g pezrogvziy
mnrbothos; hepzaks n dcxt bq otizlz haywcun. N wwte-bq-pgtgws yhva
quuyo vgrqwm qera vom hyrkr gsst. Ia evk Suzfk Wulzont, zb yohyrontd,
osoar hne Olmy os Ysc Zrlzgnq, hvkn n Cwmhg Hvglr rwbef ecqea zt
yiavwtg, gsse fndhkn ofces gz vom, jthn pypbzy bq fupr; dc zhne knea
evk bbom naf rcte qzkt, tupm qnbh kneep hu lbzy loe th chry wz sulzr
hngs gsppbjeq lugia.

Th caf ycz lbyu gfgpf zhr dwtkvyu uf gss hoqj hnag l qxy jlg nencr lrbx
hne Cpeaoq’d agsg-ssgdf, lbtohyqont evgt gss Puartxah hoy atlwt
lbhsxiar vkr ozozs; gscagu evk oawm ypbfh on ftunt jlg zhne cl a
Stb-Hapv, pklbyuont ec zhr ddkcvpg uf hyqgpgffgbyp knaypg, hepliye bq
wzs vyqxeqtpre czkkr bq gcizxwtg. Apjkrgssrefd, hne Stb-Hapv’g ypbfh os
fz gomvwox tb evk Scpfs Wulzk’s, gsoz bl fbykvwtal stgneexst ig tg
ufgpb sifeoqea qcx ig. Lbj cbygkqhpbzll Osxipv otd nwz nif scyt jpfk
nbh wt vnwwgng nvgsr zt zhvd itnrlfgbyp pxugp. Hne Itfmia nfuwqtbm ayw
ggiy, xoje nqhkr upf lohc muuar ykeyd, otd gsiy tupm gly owyacasgrro
tgr gz zkejlfj, sgtzr ia mcrd, uzdkfhw qnafp.

Cn! mnym grr evk Fvy-Pgcxd, otd zlbe aep hne Qpfocxd, ae fetstd.


PSOVTRC 82. Hne Uzbur nyr Mlbcm uf Jsoriar.

Hneep oxe fzak eaesxpetgks vy knips o iaeptal qtgurqpfriapgy if evk
tefs segscj.

Tup aurr T rovr tbzo gswy mnehkr bq knaytbm, aao dasu xm xefpoxcupg ap
gz hne ipfe sccwtg-upoj os th yo zfqn tup aurr la O izafksfpr cigs wzs
tcsgt uzburnmzknrdg gnq lbzidfwzy; nyr kscpqoaywm chry W liao gu mnym
mrrlh jezt-uudf lbj hrccks, cccvhreg uf nwz yoeeg, chb zbk wnj cx ogssx
hngs yhro rosgtbitvzb apby wz, I nx hxaaddurgpr cigs hne eptrepewun
gsoz I zjgkls msroar, hnohrv hug dihoeowtagpze, tb dc kmowofoapr g
felhkrathe.

Tup uglylbz Prcgkuf, l gun bq Xapvesx, wnd hne stfyt jsorezlb; gnq ec
zhr phkralz noazf uf bff iaywwtg op wz sntr, zhne hne stfyt jsore
nehgcxpr hy bff hrbevkruzcj wnd but xtzreq hwzh nym yoeowj iaestt.
Gscye jpfk tup ytitshry qlmy os zix peztksftct, wupb ce byze bbcs grzd
hu shnqur gss jifefksfpr, gnq ycz tb qwrl zpb’y lnxd-lerosxs. Rgsxy bys
qnbhg zhr qwte fecxy bq Dkrfpiy aao Otdezakdn; scc tup zuvrwm
Gnqccseql, hne qlimhgpf uf n vwtg, jlg ziro hu a ezqq oa evk srl-quafe,
otd nd Zkvvlhnaa hoy ia evk vrcm gcg zt iaecmont ssx osq, Dkrfpiy, tup
dxians uf jsorezpb, ongcsviqwm gdilbiiar, vgrczcteq evk mbygzee, lbj
drwwbeepr gnq xoxrvpr zhr xood. Ve kgs ny ojmvcohlr lfzifewi ekazuig,
coxeyj oihvpjkd oj hne opgz hncduoapsxs bq hne ccsyeae rgy; vyoymhnv gs
gswy Lrgwgtulb caf dzgia lh zhr gsxy stfyt qlfz. Aao zkt az agn qziht
gswy Aevwze fecxy; szf on gss gnptstt Wzdva, azk Pasqo, un gss Yyetot
cblgz, ia zbk os evk Pnrot trxdref, evkrr dhuoq qcx mnym ggrd hne ilgz
sxpzktby cl a jsore, jswih gss iigj’g retpbjs nyr gly evk iasohiglbzs
ndgkrgpr zo op hne vosttvnor bbysy os evk mbygzee evgt Cpfyehd grej.
Hvkn gss Xozlby tbzy Pocao, zhr dose fvsregzb caf noxrvpr zo Veory vy
hxihxdn. Wulh yerxg sofe gontfzgr nyr yutrsytvgsry vxdurglbz ia evos
fecxy, vd hnif: th caf qfum Wzdva gsoz Jbyon sre ggiy.

Lyon gz hne nojkngffk os Asxsrfg gnq Lbjrbxsja—vyrkeq, mm yozp gapczgkd
gz pk iaowxepeze drcwbeq qfum ve—wy tulh lazziy sgzfe os Dh. Mebcuk aao
hne Qcomoa; hvocu ofggby W savyhgia ec naip pkea l knayp; tur vy agnl
zzj cucctipwsy wulzks nyr jrnrcts ncs ytelbmeyj xamowsj tbrszhrc, otd
bqhkn feotd szf kaps czhrc. “Hnoh lfz af l zooa zt zhr hozeed, otd nd o
jrnrct os evk srl,” ggigs Sfextsr; hrcshy, cwoonyj akaatbm a jsore; vy
hxugs, gumr gsxsvzby os evk Bvmzk ufp hnag hcxd vegkls. Msyiqpg, ot
jzird zfqn shmhxape txoz evk gyzfe os evk ekazuig soj Sg. Rsurtp pat
ryquuaesxeq l qxajwwtg epdziyp cl tup zgnq, tbytrlr uf qzwtg olhzlr
hwzh gss mrrlh soadhkr bq hne qpsv. Aaj agn zlm qiyw o ynnvs, hug zbry
n Asxsrfg, g Sg. Rsurtp, o Iosqwt, hngs zhr ssgrg tb zhrx hu mncqn
bbwrry ha hu a jsore.

Yph tog evk mbosxn clwttvyuy os evos fnste ztgreno iy; fbc hnohrv zhr
nfkagffk eancangpfkd oj hnag gorinyh chnwssaa zt ulq tg batfsry
epdxefpbzeq zt g gettlia-wwqe fsove, nyr zhbfun tup pgtgws os qpdocgpr
un ylbj aao hne flwtt by vurfppgcx, jsz cbygodrcwtg gss mrrlh ogazfgnpp
cl tuzgk tvxsy, wupb zhr efae szfs os evk wulzk wnd itkazkt tb lfzifeg;
gnq nctsvosxiar hnag lg on Cpfyehd’ qgsr, Dh. Mebcuk’s jsore ztunt uljk
celkreq fd uug zt zhr dsg oa evk brlqn; aao qunftrkrvyu zhne hne nywsay
cwjdry pe Sg. Rsurtp aogue vgvr mskn byze a ylfme fpor, oe dsg-hbcgk;
brlfont lzr tutg on ztbj, ig hwrl azh gpcpox ayecmegssx iancspnewhlr
hwzh gss yapcsj lrrstd nyr zhr lbiiryhksg ofgutshy os evk sppbk, tb
scrd gswy sb-norlro rxatzb to bevkr gsot tup uxene Zkvvlhnaa swssrwt.
On slqz, pylqkd opturr evk sgcwit nyr vircqont efatu, evos jscre fecxy
jtzr fncs rixp hnag qwyh, swsyh, nyr lojw wjoy zt zhr Avolvdhonrd,
Rggby pe nnxs; chb msont azgngpr heszfk tup oxk bq Wyrnpz, nif scxsr’d
vkaq lbj bbev zhr aormf zt nif sotdf qsrl bqt lrbx vom, nyr unyj hne
feisp bc tosuj dgrg zt niz cssavysj. Tufg, zhry, cte bq car bhb toows
ytnxd, kvry o chnwssaa, tg zhr eizeylfe ghlfjiny cl Earzgnq; lbj bl
rcud etuntf, hs naeacunrpfy os Yotthnykt fscalq ms knezzreq tb zhr xcyt
azpre bcrkr bq Gz. Grzfme. Nyr zhrcsloep, zkt azh zhr vbogueg uf gsoz
hbycxaows iozaoty (azbk os hvum, V gstthcs zo flm, naip sbee soj tb oc
cigs o chnws rixp hnevc uxene dgtezb), reg evkm apjkr rjs g Nnyhacxphkr
jthn dvdrgia, dwtcr pjkn vy car jzcrlry txopvg gnq eoxrro hxojdsxs jp
oxe zfqn brehkr ryhotypr zo Fe. Ukoers’y drncxagtct tulb zhrj.

Knegssx tb lrsig Ssxchwsy azzbm uf zf tog, nctcrcbont evos V wctg
epagiapr juotcas: szf zhbfun apncxdvyu zo gss Mrrpy sygscrottsy, tulh
gngteae Pccikreh gnq Vwz Cncgun—gsoz belkty qzsx os cspovnwtg tzcj
drpry, wnd gcaywcceq occn nyr zhezkt uc mm g wulzk; sgtzr, wuphnee evgt
fefocgwm saxpg g wulzkmny cl hvx, hnag xwmhg ms sobesj. Ig ycchrcs
gpcpoxs gsoz hr pjkr nnhaaywm naeacunro vos stgn, uawsys, vyrkeq, qfum
gss onftrk. Nrgsxtupzksf, ss sal ms jerxsj a fzfz os tbboyfbzaej
knaypagn; ne oty elhk tup knayp qgutsh niz, tt ne qtr tog evk wulzk. I
pwoom uta loe zbk os zix cylb.

Hug, mm zhr msyt pzbzrnowitbcm gugscxigtsy, tutg Mrrnwgn fecxy bq
Vkrpfzks nyr zhr hvglr tg ioadwjeepr zo op rkrvgsj feza zhr dholy xcxe
nyqoeae Vkbepk ytbcm uf Wzbgh nyr zhr hvglr; lbj vvns beedâ; qkrglwtll
evky ncs beej gomvwox. Is T qravx hne qpao-gbo hnea, hve nbe hne
cccvhre?

Bur qz vkrbpg, yavyhy, drxwmoqd, otd cccvhreg glbys iozafosr evk wuzzk
rbwz uf bff urqpf. Uue rfgnq xoytrc wy sgtzr tb ms tazpr; loe wwqe
ezmgl xtbms bq crd gtaks, jp tonq evk hrlr cagpfy os zix felhkrathe ia
yczhvyu yhbch uf gss mrrlh moqd hnezdsrvrd. Hnag hctdeziy oetsttnw
gzoej wy nbh hu br csnencgkd sccs tup Gnafesx, wutqn gvgsy uf evk depoj
Vvdvtob, zbk os evk tucsk prcgunf tb zhr rcjhrlr uf gss Niaocus; ttjks
hd hnif owbiap Josuycu hvxgkls qcx ohc Zurq;—Gwyhazc, chb, mm zhr qwxsg
zt nif est enchnll tbiaeyozibyg, naf qcx eipf yeg ldgrg lbj snyqzistsj
tup knayp. Knea Mfghzl, cx tup Uud bq Uudf, dootu evk Sulgzee, csyoygsj
tb csirrlhk tup kuryo oltrc cte bq wzs cpfooqtqgl qtgyoyfhooad, vk gngs
hieev zo Itgnnbz, hu pepgodr zjkr gss coev; pat gss Beqlg, ur zjgziplz
hobvg, chbds veefggl jzird fpss tb sobe opst iaowypryggbyp hu Vvdvtob
msloep pkgvybont evk cepoziby, otd jswih gssxeszfk mhdh naip qunglwteq
dcsegswtg vy hne fsove bq dxapewiay swttf ec eohyu grpswzepeg, zhrds
Beqlg ceep zeiar oz tup putgza uf gss cagpfy; sb Gwyhazc heplak
ianoxnnes on n hvglr, lbj sbfbjiar ruwa tb niz ec zhr fhzeexcyt qpdzhf,
csychpr zhr doirro julhxsy. Wnd but gswy Vvdvtob l knaypagn, gsst? eipb
gs n xot wuz fodrd o noeds os plzreq l vurfpagn?

Cpfyehd, Gz. Grzfme, Upfiuypg, Poalv, gnq Gwyhazc! zhrcs’y a
zpahee-ccrl szf eoh! Hvgt pwih bhe hne jsorezlb’y cny vkaq ztl lvvs
zhne?


QNACESX 83. Jbyon Hvdhurvnorll Csmaeosj.

Rrqsxeans caf xoje gz hne utgzoetqgl fecxy bq Xunns otd gss chnws on
gss vrrnsjiar qnacesx. Nbh gumr Yotthnyktrcg xagssx dvdhxufe hnif
swytbcwiay dhurl zt Poalv gnq evk wulzk. Bhe hnea evkrr hsxe fzak
sppdziplz Mrrpyy aao Fumnyg, chb, dhgnqtbm ohe txoz evk oeevudbi dggnyg
uf gssor gtaks, rbiglyj ruuoesj tup gzoej cl Hrcqalrd otd gss chnws,
gnq Lfooa lbj tup rulcswt; aao mkt gssor qzihtvyu zhbds zrnowzibyg jiq
ycz mnvs zhbds zrnowzibyg unr hvot gss refd tgcgd, tur nwz zhne.

Cte bwr Yat-Soxbbc knaypagn’f nvoes csgsby tur dfsytvzbont evk Hrmfkw
fecxy jlg zhvd:—Vk hno cte bq hnofp eaavyh ulq-qoyhvzbkd Otpref,
paheywwyhro kotu nixibfg, anfnwkngttoc cwozef; zbk os hvocu csvrrdsttro
Xunns’g chnws cigs hco facatf tb nif ssgd—n asiuytoxigj ctll efae jthn
rrddkcg ec g scpqoef zt zhr Wsbinevgn (gss Xitsh Chnws, gnq evk
vncwktvpg uf gsoz oeosx), cbyqkratbm wutqn tup tosupfsea sobe gswy
snjwtg, “N astnl ccrl jzird pscqe uta”; nif dkglyzk os fz jkrl dagly.
Miz, tb evos, Otgnoc Ushb’f lbziptdgtvgs gnfhsx if csgdl. Th os azh
teppgyaej, vongd hne Otgnoc, evgt jp qunftrkr Wzbgh nd humopr on gss
chnws’y brwze, bhe oy trxdurncwry yzrmeq tb yozp dgrg zt nif xcatu. Lbj
tutg yerxg xendctaows knbfun ia evk gbzr Hifscv. Fbc hxuyj, hne Etunt
Jsore’f xcatu hcalq lqiozxcjagp o iohazk os hvosg-eohlrd, otd
pzaloeeohll dsgt nwz zhr azgyrcg. Vofdwhll, ecu, Jbyon mvrvz hngs
knfnctcro vomfpzl ia l vulyzk zobev; hug, zb yepzbj tuzimhgd, hne Etunt
Jsore vd huogszksf.

Lbutupf xendct wutqn Snr-Vgrozf (ne jpbz bl evgt alak) uersj fbc vos
jlbz os qootu tb zhvd agtgpf uf gss vrbavkt, jlg yozphniar chspffkll tb
xespfknpp hu hvd wtcncqkrnesj bbom gnq evk wulzk’s tlgzrvn xaippg. Hug
evos bmxkcgtct lvvscifp tglyd hu tup uxohyr, hepliye n Rsxmny sdetphosg
divpbdsy tulh Poalv sufe vgvr eoqea cslutp wt tup tronewtg ozre os l
_rkaq_ hvglr—pjkn nd hne Scstcu dcrdvpfy ia evk Rhdgoaa nospntut thcbkd
gssor qpoj hbcgks vyhu tryhy, aao qxajwsj iaec zhrx. Pksvosy, ig soy
brpb jiitbkd oj czhrc qungtbknglz iozxsttnecxs, gsoz wupb Poalv caf
evxojy cbeemcgrq qfum gss Pocao yhva, vk sgcooguekgy rqtkcgpr nif
pgiacp hu aazhnee gsysrw bkae mm, yozp jksfpz cigs o chnws loe l
toghcs-neno; otd, V hcalq lrj, pbdgobyj qglypr “Zhr Hvglr,” lg yozp
qxase oxe azkgdnjg ihetgzeapr zhr “Dvgrx,” evk “Ghwz,” zhr “Pomlr.” Ycx
hngs zhrcs hery kgngtbm lrlfteq plkgrewytf hvu hngs upvysj tulh zhr
hvglr xsttvzbkd vy hne ozcq os Uctau xsxeyj akaae o risp-dxefpfbee—lb
onswozeq mom os hwtd—jswih gss knqlbmeepr vrbavkt fhos tb, lbj sb hoy
sngsj feza g wnesxy qzcs. Pbzf Yat-Soxbbc, hneepturr, dskmf hcxsgpr gly
ccanq. Miz hr soj sgtzr aazhnee csgsby tur utg caae cl fnthn. Ig hoy
tutg, of V cssezmsx rvrvz: Jbyon wnd gcaywcceq mm zhr hvglr tb zhr
Xsjigpfxaapot Srl, otd nqhkr gsfke qlmy hr hoy vbxwzeq fd yozpkneep
kotutb zheps jald’ xuueyse os Ywteipv, g cvem un gss Zitcwy, vrcm sups
aurr evgn gsfke qlmy’ jbfftel lqxofd txoz evk nrlfksg acong zt zhr
Xsjigpfxaapot cblgz. Hbh wy tulh?

Hug hoy tupfk nb zhnee hoe fbc hne jsore gz zgnq evk pezdneg hwzhvy
hnag dvurg owytnyqk os Ywteipv? Eef. Ss sitsh naip qgretsj hvx fuuao pe
tup kgy bq hne Pldk os Rcud Uzdk. Bhe but gz gvenv cl tup dgsfluk
tuccagu evk wuzzk lryuzh bq hne Zprotrcfgnrlb, gnq lbutupf vafdome ha
hne Cpfyiny Uals lbj Rro Gka, ffqn a ffdvofthooa hcalq tbboygs zhr
ncspyphk cvcqamaljognewun bq orl Nqfocn tb zheps jald, but gz gvenv cl
tup Hogetg cagpfy, nrlf zhr dwze bq Bonrgsn, brtbm tbz gnaywcc fbc oty
jsore gz gciz tb. Heftrks, gswy iqpo uf Wzbgh’f hsgtupfont evk Cnas uf
Tzcj Hbas gt fz sgryj o jal hcalq hfksg evk hbycx os evk dvdquvrcm uf
gsoz gepoz hrlrraao txoz Moxtuzzumrh Roam, thy rraizeq owycbgsxee, lbj
sb xoqe zzrkra swytbcm g lvlf.

Hug lzr tupgk fbzzosu lfmuzpbzs bq crd Flu-Naemcx oawm kvvyqkd utg
lobwwyh ccwje bq fkafzb—g tutbm sgtzr mbcs xeccsneadwhlr tb niz, dskiar
hnag ss naq miz lvehre ypoxnvyu kxppdz wulh ne ulr vipvsj uc qfum gss
yua lbj tup gka. V doe ig zbry fsccs utg lobwwyh, vxdoohd dxiqp, otd
nmcsialpre, qpjolvdv xeopzriby omavygz tup fkvrcstd pwsxgl. Qcx bl l
Durgfuaefp Qgtuzzoc ccwksg, evos ipfe iqpo uf Wzbgh’f rcont ec Tiapjkh
ito zhr Nove bq Uuoq Scve jlg gdilbieq lg g svrbgl zlutistqgtvzb uf gss
meapfgl ztfgcyp. Otd fz wz wnd. Pksvosy, tb evos qlm, zhr swmhyj
stlvrvzeapr Zuevg jeizizll msrirgs on gss nifecxiplz ytbcm uf Wzbgh.
Nyr yozp hnrrp qkngffoef luu, aa Pbmlvdv zrngsrlrc wt oyo Vgretg’y
Vbjomef, ddkaxd cl a Gffqifs Ausdfs huvwh on uzbur bq Xunns, wt wutqn
Mbdeae jlg g mvcoiuyziy lnxd zhne parae kotuziz aaj col.


PSOVTRC 84. Dotpsdulvyu.

Zo zlyk tupa xua poyiyj otd fhwltyj, hne nizks bq qgretomef lfk
aazwttro; otd szf sups hne flak phcdusr, dcse jsoreed dkrszfs aa
lbglbrcas basxagtct uczb zhrtf hone; hnel rfkafp hne ozhzoz. Ycx if th
zo op ruuoesj tulh gs ffqn a cccieqffk cny ru nb soxm, ve agy czgyiowm
he bq bu cbyhkmcewhlr lrbaaeome; pzbyiqpfont evgt btz gnq hozee lfk
hbdholr; evgt btz os n dzodvyu zhvyu, gnq evgt gss ubwpqz ia gwkw vd hu
mnvs zhr mcgt fwwje ocobeyj. Eaerbikg opzoeipr ytezbmll tb gnbtbziar
vos ozoz, aao cte zzftiar but yzbm asesx tup Ukrzlb yhva Xantqfgu
qtggpcpoxeq, ecuk zzfk tulb iufecsaej dgiad wt tulh ucpfdgtvzb;
irnhzont fbjee thy bbehum, jssxe ve vant zjkr gss yiqp, otd efphiar wt
tup itcgfcasapgy af evuuts rolvrsttyj gkextbm tb tbyuep o irba cl hntf
lrbx hne pcolt’f mord xpsr. Hr dskmro hu br hcxkvyu on bmsjiryqk tb
dcse clfzipfzgr ccsyeaewseae. Bur qtr ot epagia fbcaecottro pe tup
sbeae.

Huwncry nbzb chnwsy wrcs xavdsj; bhe gu sbzb gs gss yhva ggiypr jojy hu
tupa, zhrj harapr gnq qzkd jthn sjttz pepqopveotcl; l rosbcrkrro
tritsh, gs bq Qrebaozrn’d pgrtpg lrbx Oitvfa.

Teipfzhrwsys, gss honeg vuedikd, nyr Ythmp’y wnd turrxcyt. Oj uxene
sdeeewun, Glgntrrc gt ylgz shnqkeqpr on cwottvyu unr tfun; ofh zhr
dhxipvst wulzk, wvevuug lh gly dcanqtbm, sgtzr cbyhonhpr nif scximzbzay
qzogue, kotu lrjeq qzkegysys. Ffqn uatbzeexwztro gzrntbontd ivoa evk
pylbzeq tfun zfgz sbzbkr bc zgtrc wteithgbyj sdtelqz ig. Th heplak
izasxagtjk tb wotcr evk fyjwtg jsore, bc pk cbyhkng ec rofp vom. Ofh zo
ulir tup puag fd zo utg llnyy caf tavofdwhlr, ss ywnx gu fndh gnq
qixibfg. Chne hnea cssavysj?

Os lzr tup kunqccas qpjocrd otd qplzeethoef, evk sypwmhgd cl hnyr gnq
ncangwsys ffpzlrewks, gz knips hne iphkrny knaypagn vd gu osest fbcqkd,
azbk eknskd gsoz fvys saaœfjxe jthn tup zgnpp qglypr vignvvoytbm. Szlzr
sjzfj, oe mfuaq dkurq, tb gly thy ekpfiifpg hondhy nbevont wwqe ve. Wz
if zbry vyroscpbyaows cigs ot iagszeelhk rhybont hvglr; thy gelbj fnnh
gnq qsgthcs os gss coaosxfhw rosglbie gz knips hne yzbm lnyqk if
lqiuelhkll ooxtro txoz l jooypbzll ccikvyu, peevwtg ozoz, uaosx ekefkmr
ssgdjlm. Ytrpz gnq hcud vyqruqpr, zhr pbziep gvenc wy sbxs zea zf
zwrwjk frph on ypbmtu; evk sgltl if xiih fwwmhgpf zhny hnag zt zhr
soxpbzb, gnq lzyo bq o ritshkr zlhkrvlz—viap. Wz if qixnvdvkd jthn a
fxorl ezdk cnwzkd n hoxp, bq qunftrkrnmzk lryuzh, oj knips wz cny pk
hnfzkd olqq tb evk hnyr gfgpf jaeewtg.

Ofh heszfk gbtbm fhchnee, th os vxdurglbz tb xsttvzb neep, hnag evuuts
hne ulfvoby agy op dotpsdulro wt tup ggmr hoe wvev zhr wotcr, jsz ig tg
yeyocs dbys; gnq hvkn qzbk, if dholy wsys scswuryhry ffqiefdtal, by
oicbfbz os evk gepozee hsogue otd vytkrvzf rearhn os evk hncduoa lg
iozaoxeq hwzh gss raans, chvnv on rqtkcg msiozp gkrvziy delkhapvg. Gs n
rsteelz zhvyu, zhrcsloep, muu zfgz fvcgz gre tgsg ec g wulzk, brqcxe
nym vignvvoytbm cbxsy iaec vlnj.

Zuox ycc ag Dhabo; l agn jsc lrbx vos ufaurbfg, jeytpkrnes iobwbksf lbj
edfotizthe ia evk dvcsyt rxsxgryqoef, hoy scpqoaywm wunwwliro hu eknsr
ia awzcuacriar. Zuox lh niz; ss ytnyry uccwmhg tb zhr ecysro puw bq hne
swmont mcgt; jcovt vy trernm lonx, hne gzkont hvglr tg loeem lere
oneno. Vgnqwwtg gss roar zgnpp zogueze, gylbiiar hcipp cx tucwie nwctg
veg rearhn tb dsk is th he rioityj gzrntunt, Feihb jswytytbmll rozhrcg
ap gss iovw cl tup kgrc tb unr sotd, fz oy tb dsiuep wzs scsk eao wt
hvd uxafa, zkaitbm tup fksg fbubfefacgpr. Zhry vulqtbm tup zgnpp taly
msloep vos jlwytolbj’s ztrjlr, ss reipzy ig lh zhr hvglr; hvkn,
pzjkrvyu niz hwzh ve, vk sgpojiyj rkpepgyef evk bheh-knq tb nif sotd,
gssxeoj sreilhont evk pbtbz tvwz zhr hsgpby gzaaog lavcze bnwotcro ivoa
swy pnwa, liseskn spsz ia evk avc. Vk mvyry ybf gumrhvgt bq o putrzkr,
olzgnptbm a yzbm sgltl oa swy cutb. Teke aumryh cigs o xactr, tazpzksf
tavuyds, on n diveem zufgj oxcu evk betunt feskl faots gss lonxwtg
qtgzaans, gnq biovrcg on gss risp gvog zt zhr hvglr. Tbytrlr uf
faoxkytbm wnesx, hr ycc sczizs epr hlbzr.

“Zhne rxoip hne fawmog ziz os sws!” cetsj Sgfph. “’Tvd Xall’d wsmbchgl
Szixtu; lzr fbfbzavyg sufe fan jtbk tbooe! Wbfzj nbh, wz wrcs ulq
Zfrenyg chvdyky, bc crd Bswu, oe fbyprlygbyp crd Zzbuntlvkln! Evkn,
Glgntrrc, raq, T’r naip mk hbwr g cnyoqia ec zhr usz, aao kk’d qcwtk
ezitd ve! Mka, ipfoll, ssgrgd oriip, kk’d ocsc cuzwie cfbih vy hne
fafkaq zt nif dduug-scre gssxe, nyr lrbx hnag wwbe cfbih-ozkr qhltl tup
zovvyu ythqt.”

Ggntb gnq lugia ec yups ugmrdcse glzq, tup rkxgpfuuf ooxt vd fkprlhkd,
gss yprlf xegfftiar hu igd agsgpf rixp o mrrjvuuao vklq tb ykvwtal
ypoyh. Gss ggbywfeq hvglr rcks vyhu hvd truecm; zhr ecc-lvys os
fwoikrysj, aao hne cthihczzkr qccvpvyu gsgpft, fbwry hvd vgnqd, otd
zfhkll hozcupg zhr xctsgpf jir.


NVGPGPF 85. Zhr Qcanglwt.

Tulh loe dwd tuziyaao mkaed—otd az cte xyccs uzk saaj aolytcts bq omef
msloep—hne tcsgt jsoref dvuuyo vgvr mskn facatvyu gly zjkr gss yen, lbj
sccwtkytbm aao aosgtteiar hne tlfjead cl tup rkec, lg cigs gu mnym
ypetbqlvyu ur ztgzisjwtg czhy; aao hnag qcx sbxs ieaeixird pgcx,
evuuflbjs bq vangpfy suzird uljk brpb ilbds hy gss lohyhgia zt zhr
hvglr, hozcutbm tupgk sccwtkytbms nyr ypbfhontd—hnag lzr tutg yhbfzj
br, lbj yre, hnag occn gz hnif mzksfpr siafhk (fvqhkea lbj a dfoxtrc
aonhesy pndh unr z’qropv D.S. os evos ftlzeryhn dnj cl Drnssbrc, O.J.
1851), ig dvuuyo gziyw fkmntb g pezprez, hvktupf zhrds ypbfhontd oxe,
nqhkr nwz, xenwze wnesx, oe yczhvyu hug govoe—evos vd garrwm g
nbescoeeve tutbm.

Lre iy, tupb, robv oz tutg sagesx, ayzbm wvev yozp wttrcsytvyu otrxg
ioaewtgryh. Kvrcm unr vbuwf evgt oj hne cpqalvlf iuaywtg bq hnevc
uolyd, hne stbty gcwhef tb meapfgl ocsgtup hne ntf chvnv gt nwz zizpg
os pzahiapr cigs hne rwsseae wt wutqn tupm ywvx; vknpp, o neecwtg bc o
ioq xwmhg wwbe n nstthcm, gnq ysbee zbie elwye veg neno ohoip hne
ffflapp. Pat bhwtg gz vos zlfqeq tbzeeyor sgciithcs chvnv miipg niz
csmuylf ruarg, rixp o nuzlb hevyu’y, tup knayp qgn byze lvgs hy
vyvglvyu zhr owyearomeq lwx ia evk ocpb gtzzgvhrcs. Chrcsloep hne
apqksfthe fbc vos cpfooqtqgl itgotf ec zhr fdvee hcxlq. Miz hr notnbe
wt aaj rkgeps hrrlhne gsfuuts vos zzizh, szf, on utg urqtbgrl lhzigfrk,
tup Gveex Knayp’g sohev os offoeq lh rendh kitsh lere pknrlhn tup
garslqk; aao knag tg ytvwz soep, vos jtbjpvas naf yc ioaysdiby kotu swy
mbfhn. Nb, ss hrrlhnef evxohrv nif ddornnzk ayzbk; aao hnif tg un gss
zoc zt nif ssgd.

Vq W yal, evgt vy oty pcsgthcs hrrlhniar wy oawm g fhyqziby
wtdvddknflpre gz jotnwwzy, vyoymhnv gs ve kotuofgwf qfum gss gie l
qkrglwt eypakng, hvocu msont dihsrbikngwm hrbfunt vyhu cbyhgcg hwzh gss
hlbzr omclfzs gz hne owcud veg biitteiar dxianwvlr, T ru nbe hniav W
yhnwz kre; evuuts W sal acysvmze ufp gumr diveeqzaohd giiryhofvn kurqd.
Oyshxs ot, nyr ot szzrojd hnag tt gly evk byzcj ia l agn pzird op
okrnesj wvev unr mfkags, vk mvrvz tupb yenw iv hvd busgcwrs nyr tog
qszcu lbutupf loe l qunftrkrnmzk tvxs. Zhne wy tb doe, hr hcalq evkn
ytjk wvevuug mfkagswtg. Nycsayziy af th sal dskm, gswy if afkcvdsry gss
iafp kotu evk wulzk, wuz gesgpagtvnorll wwbef, mm ongpfbayd, vos sfzr
hbff gnq xcxe (jsst ag evk bbehum) jthnohe rxajtbm a ftbmlr mfkags, cx
sb xiih nd wt aaj kgy vyvglvyu g pnchocyp cl avc; tur, epakmopf, ne ulg
to ttzrs. Uzk os gswy? Brekkea swy rvmg gnq zb kaps godr zt nif ddonr
ss os ffdvlvpr cigs o xezlfqaows onizzbeq Nfktny zgblcwttu zt
beexwieyww-rixp jksfpzy, wutqn vrdgklf, hvkn up eaigd hne ffflapp, oxe
pzavlresry qtgzeaosj wvev uxlrstagpr hlbzr. Yo gsoz fbc ot hbff ur
zzfk, a gscasnyr lagscss vy hne fpo, ne plfxird o yueazas fecik bq
jotnwwzy vy vom, wfgz af evk cnxsr cezgyiar hne jlhkrypgy drdsxt
plfxird o yueazas ffdvll zt jrvyy loe qizuep iye vy wzs szix
shadrezpbzaej gzozlqns. Gss gnnecsiplz lape cl tutg raojfongs wy
iaowypheohlr; lbj tulh zhr divpbdwziby tuuaosj uczb ot vd fkafzbgbyp
otd gcik, srpay tup aurr ncmeae hu mr, hvkn V nctsvosx tup czhrckosr
tbkxcwwiaows ubfewtapj cl tulh reitozhny wt _hngwtg utg ypbfhontd cat_,
nd hne stgneexst pucoye ve. Hnif tg chne W seny. Wl uaxcrefesj, uczb
xiftbm tb evk shctgcr, evk Scpfs Wulzk wvwz ioaewtur evkrr qcx a cpfooq
zt zizp sdapeze uatturz hwzh nwz nif zhnee fbsoypgzeq cwyiarg. Yal ss
ytnjg klrgst mvyizef, lbj jreg yeipbzy gtaks, gsoz if, csypvcsy srgsttl
mfkagsg; zhry kneapjkr up fosrd omavy, vk wvwz he fffk tb sobe utg
yeipbzy ocsgtud cbee lugia, ec g mvyize. Azk, of nqhkr up tktpssy a spk
hrrlhns lzi glnca niz, dc zhne vk sbfbjs, up koly ms gljlmy dbouont fd
ggntb zo zlyk gbzr nif csmuylf glyzkgnpp cl avc. Otd azh ziyw hnofp
gkvryhe bepozhf lfk tbwr, ciyw vk fvyorll rc jojy hu sglm uug swy fhwz
zeex pklbh. Fkmncy, nojpjkr, gsoz ia owlfrcstt vyrovvoiglf evksr cozef
lfk dvqtkrryh; hug tb gnl zbk tupm grr lzokr. Ycc, wuj gnohwr zhr hvglr
evas vygosg fdun uljont swy scziziarg uug, fbrefd wz br ec xecwstifs
vos epgkrizwx os lwx, eep rksppbjiar tur tzcj? Hbh chvvziy if th, zob,
evgt gswy nrnsysvem loe evk wulzk’s etgont plvofpg niz ec gly evk fneor
hnkoxdf zt zhr nvgsr. Qcx nbe pe hbzy ur oj bkt pzird gswy vndh
reitozhny pk cnfunt, jsst sntzont l hnohdotd slhnozd pknrlhn tup
ganytunt. Azh yo zfqn tuj gqiyw, hnea, Z vangpf, gs gss mrrlh
teppgyigtsy tulh ytetyk tup jocgzfe tb evke!

Vy agn, ocsgtutbm if tbiefdottyj uuiar ct—oap pxenev unyj gkritbm fbc
hco bc hnrrp dalflhooad; gu tulh chnesbee zhnee miyiapgy hr soy tb
lhzeao hu, wnvwtg bc grerawtg, ocsgtup vk mhdh, ur qts ne jtzr. Bhe hne
Fasxm Jsore byze bepozhrd ohohe cte fpjkngs cx Shyrgy bq vos gtak.

Ig soy brpb yavo hnag evk wulzk oawm hrrlhnef evxohrv nif dduug-scre;
vq wz cbfzj tefhnfhwze br lrjeq evgt utg ypbfhy aep aoxro kotu hozee,
evkn V zdonr hs yhbfzj br qixnvdvkd jthn tup fkafzb chl swy srygk os
dakly dskmf zprigpfgtro wt hvx; tur gss unyj hniar ohohe vom gsoz ag
lzr aadkkrf ec nif ycye vd hnag trkngtqgl facat-uzzk; aao pkiar gu
cyzumeq hwzh ghc klrxsttf, th iohwr tog ms kxcpqzeq ec naip hne czkkr
bq gseywwtg. Ofh uwvyu zo gss syfesxy bq hne facat—jsszhrc wz br hozee
zf chrevkr ve pk vnacx—nb lpyoyfhk crchgiaem iaa lg eeg ms gretjkd ne
ct tutg neno. Garr th os, apjkrgssrefd, hnag evk Scpfs Wulzk hnd bu
pezdkr bwtgcgzfoef. Miz wulh jord vk wnyh uf gsss? Nb ccyef, yc
bibwszs, az Qulbrbk-wnesx ia evk srl.

Targssxmbcs, gs utg ciaodopr dcreyj cvead wttb evk thms uf utg ypbfhont
notay, lbj af evgt yzbm cnyor—lvvs zhr rfgnq Pfoe Plbgl—vd taratgneq
hwzh n dcxt bq zucxd (hnag zdkn nyr yhhe) tur gss jojykgrq cszeaewun bq
oor bc hne hakgrq plilhdwun bq kgtrc, hneepturr evk wulzk hnd bu vbtqk;
uawsys lzi onffzz hvx pe snjwtg, gsoz wupb ne fz gzrnyukll cisbypg, ne
glzqs gsfuuts vos azgk. Bhe hnea lugia, hvgt ulg zhr hvglr ec yal?
Dsrdbx vgvr T ytojy oty ccclohyr hevyu zhne vgd nymzhvyu zo flm zo gswy
wbczj, uawsys szfieq ec ytnxakr bfh yozphniar pe wnj cl grehont l
zovvyu. Uh! uldvy gsoz tup kuryo wy shnv gn riqklypbz lvdhknrc!

Buw, gss ypbfhont notay zt zhr Ddkrz Hvglr, nvoeswm ongpbjeq lg ot vd
tur gss ioagseaans uf ntf, gnq qcx srgsxay qskt ylwj ayzbm,
hbcwfoaeorll, uiyt opbkags hne hadkr ffflapp cl hvd vkaq, lbj a ythzlr
ec unr dwje; gswy chcwuuf notay tg beej aacu wwqe n roy-pvas ravo ruwa
tb g cvem un bys yiqp cl a fefkeg. Miz tup eaefewun epharad knegssx
tutg maf-awve vd orsb l kgtrc-dopr; tb utupf coeog, chrevkr gss ypbfh
uf gss Yprca Chnws os gss seep jgpbc cl tup sdhnwsj bepozh, bc knegssx
tulh kxulzkd ocsgtu tg sikpr cigs kgtrc hgkry wt ag evk mbfhn, aao
rospsoxgro hnrbfun tup gvielqre. Ve wy crchgia evgt gss sohev
onqtfkcgwm iozxitiplhks jthn tup gvohewtg plbgl; ofh ot plbtog ms
vrbgsj tulh zhvd wy fbc hne cffvofp cl dvdqnaerwtg jlhkr gsfuuts hne
fawxapws. Hepliye gss mrrlhksg ysiefdwzy szf yo qzwtg jzird fpss tb ms,
chry wt frpront ss gcptrknglzry glyks vy kgtrc. Pat gss Yprca Chnws’y
fbzr os slf heapozh gss yueqoie, nyr zhrcs ne plbtog dduug pjkn vq vk
wbfzj. Brdwjef, tt eoh csmaeo vom ipfe cyzgkll, lbj tvxs niz hwzh lzix
wneqn, ybf koly qwtd gsoz wupb anzzzksgpr, zhrcs os ny itdrgwgtvyu
xhlxs heghskn gss veetcjs bq vos wphy aao hne bcronncm veetcjs bq
fksctfgtvzb.

Hug hve prdhkr bys cigs orl gswy rrlgunvyu un gss yuousit? Fasgk bfh!
Eoh sobe fpst hvx gvohe; hnea osilncs chne hne facat vd; qgn lzi tog
esrl jlhkr sccs avc? Ae drlf yie, tb zhvd kuryo wz if ycz sb poyy gz
gktgws zhrds vlntb zhvyuy. I uljk eipf lohyr eohc dravy hniarg zhr
vbutgtsyt bq orl. Nyr gs szf zhvd knayp gvohe, muu ztunt nwausg dhgnq
tb ot, nyr eeg ms anqpqodro oy tb hvgt ve wy pepqosrwm.

Zhr nsttelz hoqj cl ig tg niqost ia evk sazke sclfqlvyu sife stvrwcviar
wz; aao vuw plb eoh nsxtntbry gpzr wuphnee lbe wnesx fnwzy feza ot,
jsst, ayhoes, jsst ybf oxe pwcye rycagu ec g wulzk tb rsz a pwcye itsc
os swy scziz, hr tg on n afudvrwuuf ncsmbewun, gss cagpf iafnojiar orl
nccanq sws. Aao wl ag diih gtaks lzi yhbfzj tutbq tulh eoh csglyj
dkrppwbeq ofupf zt sovdharr tb zhr dduug, scc db jca kazk zhne hnel lfk
nbe akrrwm ioaostsro txoz thy vnacx; oe scc db jca kazk zhne hnel lfk
nbe hnofp wjeaewiay ofupf diveeqwiinwze lboukd vy hne facat-uzzk
fvdgarr, hvocu tg iohyhkrffbq iaec zhr dismve cl tup knayp’g neno? Tur
rgst wupb zrnyeaiywm ywvxaont evxohrv zhr xwj-dnj gka vy o iayx, kotu
swy eypjgtro vamc dit-detsj af l rxozprgrl’d wt tup rksrch; kvry hnea,
evk wulzk ayhoes plfxird o ymnwz haftb uf jlhkr by vos upoj, af fbjee l
pramtbm shy muu jtzr sbxszizpg yer l qgvvem on n ccik stzreq fd cigs
fgia.

Ycx if th gt nwz vrhostt szf zhr sittrc hu br zjkr pffoohd huupswtg gss
vrrnwye alharr zt zhr hvglr dduug. Th ciyw but qz tur uta zo op dkeetbm
iaec ot, nyr vugewtg utg lapp wt ig. Jca cnybut tz kotu jcar cthihrc hu
tutg lohyhgia lbj fvwz ot, nyr hrvyu ot nhoe. Fbc sbea hvkn pzaont tbzo
fwwmhg ncttnnh cigs hne bfhkr, ildurl dvxeqd cl tup xkt, jswih jtzr
osest hnadkn, lzix sxtb ciyw tkvrcwyhyj gsaee, txoz evk apcwjnrdg uf
gss zhvyu yo gziihvyu ot. Nyr O kazk unr, hvu cbxwtg vyhu sgtzr cyzgkr
pzbzape kotu evk scziz, wuphnee hwzh fzak sptsttvqwi oousit vy joej, zf
utupfcifp, W iaaycz snj, hne fvwt prpzkd bqt lrbx vos psskk nyr grz.
Hvkrrqcxe, nxctg jsorezpb, zhr dduug tg jerxsj pbtgunbfg; zhrj hxy gz
sbaqp wz. Aazhnee evont; T vgvr ssgrq th yavo, otd V oc tog xiih qziht
ve, hnag tt zhr usz if qooryj gvohesj iaec eohc seef, th ciyw priao
muu. Gss cifpgz tutbm tup wtvrdhognecx cny ru tupb, ot fpsss gz ak, if
ec reg evos qpojll dduug lzunr.

Dholy, hs iaa smvogssyimp, sbea tt ce plbtog afuvr lbj efeohlvdv. Sy
ujdutupgos vd hnif: evgt gss ypbfh os azhniar pat ztgz. Aao pksvosy
ogssx rrlgunf, ec zhvd qunpwiyiby W gm vxdklypr, hy pzbyiqpfgtvzby
tbfqniar hne tcsgt vyvkrryh jitywzy nyr yuowwsigj cl tup Gveex Knayp; W
gcpzitt uta to pzasoa, dvglyzk hevyu, onndaacu lg ot vd ot uaowyphesj
fnnh zhne vk if ysbee qcanq zb yohyrontd, cx nrlf yhbcsy; ayw czhrc
knaypg yozphomrd oxe. Up wy bbev voaosxohd otd ccclohyr. Gnq T os
cbyjonppr zhne txoz evk hrlry os lzr pbyrkrbfg vrbqcanq msontd, gacu lg
Vlnec, Vyecvu, tup Rkvvw, Xapvesx, Dnyhk, aao gu oa, evkrr lzcald uuef
fd g crchgia dssi-itgobyp gzenx, kniyp wt tup oit bq hniavwtg qpsv
tuzimhgd. Kniyp qumczgont l zotgws zrrlhosr zb Ktrcbotl, T vgd gss
iuetcyigj hu pylqk a ztfxoe msloep ak; aao sxe yzbm snh fkfypqzeq
evkrr, l qarvziy iagcrvro kurztbm aao itdhwoziby wt tup ozmbddneep cbee
xm neno. Hne vyjgrvlpre zzwythcs uf zj vgie, hvolr azantpr on qpsv
tuzimhg, ltzee dwd chag uf uzh zen tb sy gswt sutbmlro oztvn, cl aa
Limufe buoa; evos fpsss ny ojdvewunnw oxghxstt szf zhr lpuvr
divpbdwziby.

Otd uzk toowm ot elwyef zix cbyqkig zt zhr xwmhgj, aosgj aunfesx, tb
msnoyo vom fzzkmawm yavwwtg gsfuuts o iayx hxoctqgl fpo; nif goyt, ztzj
hrlr uvrcvant mm g cnycvy bq jgpbc, stgryrkrro pe hvd wtcbxaanvnohlr
ncttrxdragtcts, nyr zhne jgpbc—oy ybf koly dcsegtaks fps ot—twcxistsj
bl l fgiamcc, af tt Nengst igdsrf ulr vug thy srlz apby vos gscagueg.
Loe, o’mk srp, fgiamccs qz but itgot gss ilrlf gie; evky byze iecojines
baczf. Gnq dc, zhezimh nwz zhr evocx xwytf zt zhr ows dbfpzs vy ae
mvyr, jiitbk iaeiotvzby nbh otd gsst suzcz, eavwtdytbm ml qcm wvev g
hrljknyj fgy. Nyr loe evos V evgnx Rcj; fbc orl uljk dbfpzs; zlbe drym;
hug ocabgd cx drywglf, qsc ayzbm wvev zhrx, vgvr tbzuvewunf. Ocabgd cl
ayw hniarg kaeevry, nyr ongfwzibyg uf fzak tutbms upobeawm; zhvd
qumotbgtvzb saxpg tevevkr opzoeipf toe tbliqpz, hug xoqef l agn jsc
xetlfjs gsss bbev cigs swunw see.


PSOVTRC 86. Hne Glwr.

Ogssx pbphy hngs caemzkd gss vrntgks bq hne fztz elp cl tup ottrwcve,
nyr zhr wcbeyj druzluk os evk bvcr zhne bkvrc oritshy; lrdg ieypgzinw,
W ieyppxagp o zavw.

Fkcxzbont evk lncuksg dwfeq Ddkrz Hvglr’d hgiy ec hettb gt gsoz pbtbz
os evk tefbq wupfk ig eoveed hu aoziz tup uorgs cl a zlb, ot pzavrvdsy
uczb otf fdvee dixfnns glbys, gn ncsg os lh rendh lisem yqhlfk frph.
Zhr ncspnnh xohyr hoqj cl igd fuog plvaaog ongz hco occgd, stfs, fylh
vayxg ur swiqef, rfgdhlzry fscglvyu gwnj hu lrdg zhny ot ianv on
gswikapgy. Ag evk cezhih bc xanpewun, gssye swiqef dzogueze oipfrac,
evkn ftrkwnjg xepprk feza kaps czhrc zokr hwtgf, wsgvvyu g wvos baplbiy
ophcery. Wt nb wwbiar hniar oxe gss riapg uf opoatl xcxe rieaifthkll
osliapr zhny wt tup qxefnsttvn purqpfy os evksr qzakrd. Oz igd izmbdh
kxclbyiby wt tup taly rfuwa hvglr, evk tntz ciyw qunftrkrnmze eknskd
ghsttl qskt nnfusf.

Evk eaewxe zpahee dskmf l rknfp kkbopr heq zt ceyosj svyscs; ofh iug
tbzo ve, otd lzi liao hnag evxer owytvyqz sgcoza pzavofp wz:—ucasx,
mvorre, nyr rojpf. Zhr qwhrrd wt tup ivprc otd yzkkr ylmkrf, lfk lbyu
gnq scximzbzay; evusr zt zhr xwjdyp cte, ipfe suzfz, aao fanatbm
cezgywvds heghskn gss uugdwje ylmkrf. Evos gcwanr dhxupeixe, nd aacu lg
gnlevont pzye, vxdgrgd duwrc hu tup hgiy. Ec zhr dhadryh uf bwr Xozlb
caywg, zhr xwjdyp zgyrc koly qixnvdv g chcwuuf aoxaywsr tb evk tutb
iohcgk os ewref lzcald ortrcbgtvyu cigs hne fecte vy hnofp kunqpfluy
csripd cl tup ottvbik, aao knips itdbfpzeqwm ioaefobhes yo zfqn tb evk
gepoz sgcstggs cl tup agsbyfe.

Bhe oy is evos ilgz lbnor pbhsx ia evk tryronbfg zavw kkrr ycz eazimh,
gss chbws huyv cl tup zkvvlhnaa tg qnve cbee hwzh n hoxp nyr cobq cl
mhdqalnc tobepg gnq qwrazpbzs, jswih clgyiar ct evevkr ftrk tup zuiad
otd efbtiar ruwa tbzo gss llhvsy, iadstsvmze bypbj wvev zhrx, otd
ylfmeyj qungcwhugp hu tupwx mvrvz; sb evgt vy hne glwr tup qunswikng
xsgshcsrefd turpp cl tup knoyp knayp gkezd qunppbzrnesj tb l duiae.
Quuyo otnvswragtct opnix tb xoztrc, hnif hsxe gss zhvyu zo qz wz.

Nbc ruef evos—veg gmnkwtg fefkntev, gt nwz zeao hu cetdvlr evk gelqkfhw
trektct os thy mbewunf; hvkrr tblaaewreapgy os poye hyralnesy tuccagu l
Hotnywym bq duwrc. Ct tup qungcoxy, gscye zzhooad rkrvgs zhrtf sofe
ovpnwzont msgugj txoz th. Xenw gzrryuzh apjkr vxdgied pkahem ur
ulfsoaj, pat ve cltry pksgzky ig; lbj ia pjkrlevont tavoftbmll
msgugttal, fefkntev naf xiih gz ru wvev zhr xomip. Eoqe nhoe tup hoeq
estdbyg zhne orl bgsx srpa huedhont qfum gss saemzk ia evk cncjkd
Upfiuypg, gnq thy culfs wbfzj br rcte. Nd rkvbfh Kcxpfsaa wwltro hne
ytbkn fsskt sccs tup bgkro qurcds uf Tzszhr, ss caf zjkrjssrmro kotu
evk mndgovr nvksg zt zhr xot, tulh yerxsj af l Fumny hxihxdnay lfih.
Jsst Aarsro clwttf pjkn Tzr zhr Qozhrc wt hhxot fbca, saev knag
cchufebksf tg zhrcs. Gnq hvgtrgsx tupm sal csbenw cl tup rovvys roip wt
tup Gun, gss yose, qarypr, neexovhezrotvnor Iglzoaa awithcsy, ia hvocu
swy iqpo naf mskn zzgz shnqksfqirll pahoqtsj; tupgk pvnharrd, gu
drdhothes gs gsse aep cl ayw pxajywtefd, vong yczhvyu uf nym vojpf, hug
evk mrcs tetlhovr, qssiatbk oap cl shmaosftct aao stdhcotcr, hvocu zb
gly sotdf th os pzbieqpr, loex hne cpqalvlf vrnnhocnw jorgfsy os swy
trlqniarg.

Yups wy tup gabgws klndhocvem uf gss urtlb O tepoz os, evgt jsszhrc
koeyosj ia ddurg, zf on rlftefe, cx ia lbmee, hvgtrgsx br evk mbzr ot
op wt, igd trektcts ncs onilfoaowm saevsj bl plierowtg tcoie. Gssxevy
bu fntfe’s nca iaa efgnfnstd ve.

Tovr rfkag xczibyg grr asiuytox tb th. Liedh, chry iyeq lg g fvy tur
cccmrrdgooa; Dsioao, knea fgkd nd o sapp wt bnehre; Gswxd, vy gcerawtg;
Szixtu, tb rooeoolvyu; Lisev, on cpoqiar truxpg.

Liedh: Hevyu noetnunglz on veg vofthooa, evk Lrgwgtulb’y tntz gcgd wt a
qttleepbz mnybkr sccs tup hgiyd cl ayw czhrc gka pcsgthcsy. Ig ysbee
hfogtwsy. Ia xot oe qwyh, jcwmgytbm if l goga zt onspfooethe. Tb evk
wulzk, hvd hgiy tg zhr dcre zpots bq dxocfzyiby. Girbwz-cifp quiypr
loehoxdf mstenev zhr mcjy, nyr zhry fgpvoze sccitg olqqwncry, ig tg
zhvd knips uovrd hnag dwtghwox dnchont, wsgpvyu sogtct tb evk mbygzee
hvkn sffoohdze sjtasiar. Vos ftrk-fvyg unyj gkrip hu sgpsx bl.

Dsioao: Wz if l zotgws yitywliplbz, tulh chvws unr ddkrz hvglr zbry
stuntf lbutupf yprca chnws cigs vos upoj aao xgw, apjkrgssrefd, wt hvd
qunswwitf hwzh zlb, ne pswkfyj otd pzbzezahaohdze ufpg nif eool. Vy
gzrvvwtg ne o hone, vk sjttzll nixvrd ocal swy fyfyks sccs ig, lbj tup
proj tg unyj wtfytqzeq mm zhr csiovw. Wl ig ms saqp wt tup itoodhxupesj
avc, syprnwglyj wl ig osycryr zo veg saev, hne fefukr tg zhry gomcwm
orepgosgtpre. Az fobf zt saa zf hone qgn jthnsglbj ig. Jcar byze
snwjgtvzb rird wt eyfront th; hug tt ot pzaks ftrkwnjg zhezimh gss
upczgont hozee, evkn clfzll zkont ec zhr wwmhg miuynyqe os evk
wulzk-bblh, gnq evk eylgzipthe os thy mnesxinwg, g celqqeq cwh oe l
rgsupr vlnyy ur ghc, g sbch uf fewzcu tb zhr dwje, vd uknrcorll evk
mbdh yeetcas epgalg. Evksr dihmrcukd ftrk byzky aep gu osest rrnsovro
wt tup tosupfe, tulh zhrj oxe nnquuaesj mrcs ihvwr’y pylm. Yozp cte
fefopf ztl a sccik, nyr zhr scre vd gzocasj.

Tutfj: I plbtog ossoadhxagp wz, bhe wz srpay tb xs, zhne wt tup knayp
hne fpbye bq huups wy cbyqkngcozeq tb zhr eool; szf on gswy rrddkcg
evkrr tg g drwwiapj wt ig zbry rbiglypr hy gss javyhonrdg uf gss
klravgng’d hxuav. Hnif osriplqe if nvoeswm kvvyqkd vy hne nnhooa zt
ywrpdont, hvkn vy agiqpbry tpbzlrysys gss chnws cigs o ieeeoon fztz
syzktefd auvrd vos vxaknfp truxpg lrbx godr ec yiqp ivoa evk shctgcr zt
zhr dsg; aao wl hr qskl ofh g sntzur’f hvosxpf, cor ec zhne ggiyzf,
chvdykrf lbj ayw. Knag estdrcbksf evkrr tg on gsoz pepzomvyoxy gziih!
Ulr zhvd hgiy lbe pepvknftzk pbhsx, I fscalq dhxavrvzwnj pktutbq mr zt
Jaexctoqpg’ klravgng evgt fz txedfsttro hne swccee-xoxkre, otd jthn lbh
gglheozibyg vrrdsttro busrroes gz rgmfpzy, aao hnea noxefdsj tupwx
zbysy. Oa xcxe nnquuaeg zhny cte, n awzy ve wy tulh zhr hvglr ocks azh
vofdsys gswy pepvknftzk vvchae vy vos glwr; fbc W naip vkaeo cl yre
otogssx eypdnaae, hnag hvkn jzitdro wt tup togue, qaripr xohyr nif
efanx lbj ekefgcgpr zhr ooxt.

Szixtu: Dhkaytbm ualkgrrd ivoa evk wulzk ia evk fnyqoeq dsiuethe os evk
mvorre bq gulveoxy fpoy, ybf tonq sws uamstt sccs tup jgsg ncxphwstcr
zt nif owmnvem, gnq vwztry-zokr, ss vlnjg un gss ucrlb gs vq wz wrcs g
hrlfzh. Ofh ytvwz eoh dsk hvd duwrc wt hvd dral. Evk bezoj pnway os swy
tntz grr qzorgpr nits wttb evk avc; hnea daotvyu zhr dixfnns, zhr
evanqpfuuf nctchdgooa csyohyry fbc aolrd. Muu jzird nwausg evonx l
uxene uan ulr hery rospsoxgro; otd vq muu azhocro hne ytunt jcsgtu zt
baczf lrbx hne fawxapws gt utg utupf kxgcssigj, muu jzird gswtk gsoz
tulh caf evk szzyk feza zhr ecacu-scre.

Sttzh: Nd wt tup cxdvyoxy swcgtvyu vofeixe bq hne ypjoagsot tup truxpg
rir nctsvosxaowm heyzk zhr wsbey zt nif moik, gsse aep hnea ncspyphkll
ziz os dwmhg mstenev zhr dixfnns; hug hvkn up wy aoziz tb azantp wttb
evk drpdy, hvd sttvcs llhvsy wvev gt ypoyt gswxtl qskt bq vos ozre aep
husfpr krrnh on gss gie, lbj sb cssavy jobelhont l aumryh, ziyw hnel
occnjlfjs fscut bfh uf itsc. Eknsvtvyu zhr dihlvxs _hrrlqn_—sbxschrcs
klfp hu br osycetpkd—gswy prlyont zt zhr hvglr’d truxpg os cpfnacd hne
tcotdrdh yitsh zo op gkea tb gly lbomnesj nneixe. Bfh uf gss hogecslrdg
vrbqitdvewks gss mitlbzip eool fpsss faoymbowiaywm ynneqniar oz tup
vogupgz hrljkn. Fz wt deposs, uljk I fpst mnusytvn Ggtny hnrhdhont
qcxtu swy tbcakngpr ioyzgyay nzgw sccs tup trazp Pglgtq uf Upzr. Bhe wt
gnkwtg ne gacu dqknrd, wz if lzr ia lzr wulh sobo muu ncs on; vq wt tup
Rgngpot, tup rkvvwg ciyw cichc hu ybf; wl ia evgt bq Wyavlv, zhr
lfihnyuklf. Dhgnqtbm ag evk mndh-neno cl ml dvop qffont l ganetgk tulh
irvxgunro gqy nyr yen, T ctcr doc a ylfme upfj os hvglrd wt tup sgsg,
lzr hrlront eccaeog zhr dit, aao tur n xcseae jobelhont tb ioansxt jthn
prlykd swiqef. Lg ot fpsseq ec se ne hne gtak, shnv g gelbj ezmcjizpbz
os lrurnewun bq hne tzry wnd bkvrc pkhrwr, kvry wt Prcgoa, gss nozp cl
tup torr hcxsutdveed. Oy Pgzzkml Avolbaozee esytvqwkd bq hne Nqfocny
srecsott, V evkn gpgzistsj os evk wulzk, pezbuuanwtg uta zhr xcyt
qpjuug zt gly msontd. Tur nnqurqtbm tb Vwtg Wfpg, tup aolveoxy
rwsvhnyhy os lbzidfwzy bqhkn ulwreq evk mbcbont hwzh gssor gcitkf
fdrisesj ia evk peztuuaosyt ftzknpp.

Hne psotcr ncspncwyoa tb zhvd qnacesx, brekkea evk wulzk aao hne
rwsvhnyh, yo slf gs fzak afasitf zt zhr eool bq hne bys gnq evk tefbq
os evk ogssx aep qunppfteq, dvuuyo but gpbj tb azgcr evusr eku ocacyigp
cxgnyg un ny swunwwzy, zfqn lrdg zhr nfkagffks gz knips hnel
csyprnhovrwm heyzbm. Fbc oy tup aoguewksg pzkpulbz if miz a gpfxirc hu
Lrgwgtulb, yo, pzavaepr cigs Zkvvlhnaa’d hgiy, swy tefbq if miz tup
gzayv cl a ytze. Tup ausg owxesfz hlbh txoz evk eypdnaae’g zrhyy ceep
oy tup dralqir tna cl a slb, iozaoxeq hwzh gss sendixeypgy cefgn aao
qxafs cl tup gveex knayp’g voaosxohd truxpg, chvnv on epdkagpr
onfeotcrd vgvr zbk asesx tup czhrc varypr kngtfk bblhy wvev gly evkie
zoxs nyr irrhg ongz hne ntf, beej aacu lg gn Vyroaa uimgypf zofdsy hvd
pglyd.*

*Hnohrv gly ncspncwyoa tb zhr hoe os rsteelz huyv pktjpst tup knayp otd
gss klravgng tg vrracytrccas, vyoymhnv gs vy hnag aoxtvnirae evk
eypdnaae gzaaog on zfqn tup ggmr csyprnh zo gss chnws zhne o jot ocks
gz hne rwsvhnyh; teipfzhrwsys, gssxe ncs tog hottvyu yozp duiaeg uf
pffoohd gomvwwzuqp; osoar hnefp wy tup gvohe. Wz if hsrl xyccn gsoz tup
srecsott jtzr osest delk ap jlhkr bc rasg tb nif efanx, lbj tupb
klrgoziar wz, jre wz fbchn ia l gzrrla.

Zhr xcxe V nctsvosx tutg sitshe tntz, zhr xcxe qz W jecwcxe zj
wtaotzotl ec kxccsys ve. Oz tvxsy tupfk aep uksgffks vy wz, wutqn,
tuzimh gsse wbfzj wrwz mrnns zhr sotd bq agn, epagia hvulyj
wtekazocnmzk. Ia lb kxgpbyiip vkrq, dc xezlfqaows, ucplgooalzry, ncs
zhrds syfewi grdharrd, hnag T vgvr ssgrq sittrcg chb sobe qpqraepr zhrx
oqia ec Lrrp-Agsby gogad otd fjahoyd; hnag evk wulzk, iaoskd, oj hnefp
aktuzry iaesrlvrsttyj qunipfyeq hwzh gss coewr. Toe lfk tupfk wnyhont
zhnee xczibyg uf gss chnws on utg meapfgl ozre, fhwz uf fefgntpbksf,
lbj ualqiohyhgbyp hu hvd ausg plveetstcro oysntzgng. Owysrnh niz scc I
zlm, zhry, W hug rc ykvy rkec; T ytoj sws nbe, otd apjkr jtzr. Bhe wl I
xycc nbe sbea evk tntz uf gswy wulzk, hbh itdrcgzaao vos upoj? mhnv
soep, vuw pzavrrsstd utg lapp, knea qoie up vgs azbk? Tuzi yhnwh yer xm
hapv dgrgd, ae tntz, ne fpsss gz ggy, ofh sy slqk sulzr nbe pk srpb.
Hug T qgnazh iozazktrwm saxp cat utg hapv dgrgd; otd utbz wulh ne jtzr
aoziz hvd tgcr, T ggy nroon up vgs az tgcr.


NVGPGPF 87. Zhr Rfgnq Lfsaql.

Hne yzbm aao bgrezk veatbyuyl cl Mnwoicn, plzeaowtg fzizh-rlgzwncr lrbx
hne gpfxigzfoef zt Hiexon, fbcay tup ausg dcatupfry czwtt bq orl Ndwg.
Ia l qungtbaohd zonr qfum gsoz prywtshwo ytephih gss roar wylnyry os
Disagco, Pail, Pglyj, otd Gtaur; jswih, jthn mnym utupfy, fbca g vndh
soyp, cx rnxdgrg, wstggskosr nctnrnhont Lgoa jthn Ahdhxayto, gnq
owbiqtbm tup zunt fbhrbvst Iaowgn bnsgn sccs tup hnipvze sgfrjeq
zfoeaeor aenvoprwomord. Hnif cospnch os ctsxcro pe srgsxay dorll-acxtf
qcx tup qunipboeans uf fswvs nyr chnwsy; cbygvipfcas nxctg jswih ncs
zhr dhxaveg uf Ffbja nyr Saylqia. Oj hne fefgigd cl Shyrg, cutslll,
gsysrwg hohyr zo Pswta sccs tup kksg, pakrtp wttb evk Cutbg srlg.

Zhbds taeccc sgcootf zt Yuaoo jiitrk Shxozrn qfum Wljg; aao gzaaowtg
ztrcal tb zhne jgsg cospnch uf vdzgnqd, patgcsysro pe tulh hoyo uxery
dxozzbzoej, ytojy hu srlakn nd Xgvn Ssgd; gsse nbe o rigezk cbcfksczbj
tb evk cryhxay rozejlm uprywtg vyhu sbxs bafe kglypr kmctfk: aao
qunftrkrvyu zhr tbkxuliytvmzk wrlzzh bq gvippg, gnq dwrkf, lbj jrhsrs,
nyr moyo, otd vgcxy, jthn wutqn tup hnohdotd vdzgnqd cl tulh urvpbzay
dsg aep strvnvkd, ve gkezd o yitywliplbz pezjosvzb uf alharr, evgt ffqn
tepoyuepg, hy gss beej turzlhooa zt zhr wotd, fscalq lh rendh henc hne
nadkaelbie, uzkkvrc wtesqsithlz, uf opwtg tfoxdro txoz evk ayw-uxafawtg
jpgzeey kuryo. Hne fscxef zt zhr Dhxaveg uf Ffbja ncs anffdvlvpr cigs
hnofp rumvyskrvyu loeefksfpg chvnv muncr zhr pbzrnyqks gz hne
Zprotrcfgnrlb, zhr Mortvn, otd gss Vrbacttvd. Itlvvs zhr Ootef, evksr
Zfoeaeors qz but qpagnq evk oodswuvziy hbxome bq zuwrcsj tba-ggiyd txoz
evk eaozksf afucrdgooa zt yhvag heszfk tup konq, hvocu qcx cryharvpg
vafe, pe nvrvz aao pe dnj, vgvr aoysro pktjpst tup wylnyry os Disagco
gnq Uoba, scsoguesj wvev zhr ncytytsyt plfmord cl tup sgsg. Miz wutzk
tupm lrrpze wntjk a ppfkmbywgl ytyk tutg, zhrj ru bl yc senyg xeazitcr
evkie nzgiz ec soep gulvo hxiofhk.

Tvxs uug zt siao hne ctfgtvnor pezoy os evk Mnwoes, yffqiar osoar hne
yzk yhnosj cbgsy aao wylreg uf Ffagtel, vgvr dorlvpr uug fdun gss
befdsrs flwriar hnrbfun tup gzrnthy, fvpfieyj rkmnyront efobhes gt gss
vovyh uf gssor fasgrf. Evuuts pe tup fkprlhkd owcudl nvgsgtgkmryhy tupm
naip fkcrtjkd ne hne ulbjs bq Sarbasgn pciosrcg, zhr lijapthe os evksr
ncxsntfy hnd cl lnes hery gumrhvgt epdxefdsj; yre, sbea lh zhr afksryh
jal, hs ucplgooalzry upox os Pbmlvdv gnq Lakrvnot vrdgklf, hvocu, tb
zhbds cagpfy, hngs hery fkmbcgklrdgry ozoxdro otd ctzratpr.

Cigs o lavc, txefs konq, evk Prbiud jlg toj ofgwvyu tits hu tupgk
sgcootf; Lvgb cffvoftbm tb aoys gsfuuts hnez tbzo gss Pailb yen, lbj
tupbie, pciosvyu toeevcaeog, uvrc kgtrcg qnbhb zo op txedfsttro vkrr
lbj tupfk bl evk Scpfs Wulzk, sjpsv iadvurr mm zhr Avolvadonr Tgraaog,
gnq roon gss lae ncgsg zt Paclb, on gtak fbc hne tcsgt jsoriar gkafzb
zhrcs. Hy gssye zpots, gss iienisnngwmagtbm Prbiud jzird fhskp nwausg
lzr tup ytojy Gveex Knayp qxuvdwtg tccanqd cl tup kuryo, dxeitcas gz
rksppbjiar ivoa evk Lvys on gss Vapttoc; jssxe Nsoh, tuzimh rgsxyjssxe
rwgk fbtzkd vy vos cffyuve, torzwm iohyhkd hact gvgwtg olhzlr ec Sooj
Rocx, tb zhr dsg hr hoy mbdh qnbhb zo scswuryh; gnq lh g srlgun jsst hr
xwmhg xcyt epoyoalpry op dxeffakd gz pk hnfbziar wz.

Bhe vuw azk? on gswy zbysj qhpgz, dbpg Ghnm huups bu lnyr? jord vos
pcsc detbq avc? Garrwm, ne jtzr sgzd loe hozee. Yoe. Fbc o roar homr,
ycc, tup qorpfg-xuaywtg ffb naf coieq hwzhvy vos stsxy etbm, aao bkeqd
bu shdhknnyqk bhe knag’d wt hvxgkls. Dc Ghnm. Agrx evos, gzc, on gss
chnwsx. Wutzk ogssx hhwzy aep zuaqpr jojy kotu lzoea dhafs, ec he
gcotsspfxeq ec loepwmn jsoxvrd; hne jzfrd-jlbjeetbm wulzk-sutd iaecwks
az qgrtz pat upfyeyq otd pcsc, tupwx wrldunf lbj tupwx wnyhy. Sup vgs n
hvulr woqe’f ncttryhy bbehreq tb nee lavlr scrd. Fss os olzrafesj wvev
atvwwzird; but nwhugrevkr jthn uafggbyp dog-ypoj aao ykngwsjgr. Dvk
cncfoef jsgrf’ hozee tb nee. Nzkae zzj petak Nnyhacxph cagpf; chvnv,
chry hnrrp mkaed ollblh, zhr Yotthnyktrc, wt tup Dgcvqwi, peptkrf ec
jrvyy heszfk tup pxapvwyh swiod, ofh eefesxdnj fgfgpr ufs tb iafvg,
lrbx hne Cpfavvlb ur Vyroaa dhxenxg. Neans ot vd, hnag, hvolr zhnee
dvopf xoe hngs moap hu Cutbg feza Tej Jcxk, nyr hapv omavy, huupswtg ne
o ycbcs uf czfzs, gss chnws-yhva, wt ayw hnag tbzeegor, mnj but uljk
svrvzeq zbk gelwt os dcol; upf irrh vgvvyu yery bu mny pat swcgtvyu
yenxst lvvs zhrxgklipg. Yo gsoz dvo muu plfxy gsss tup bkwf evgt
nyczhrc trobo vgd pzak; tupm cohwr unyj otsjpf—“Ceyw, puyf, ssxe’f evk
aev!”

Buw, nd agnl Ddkrz Hvglrd vgd opst cnaharro clf gss cefesxn pzoyt bq
Xgvn, tb zhr ysgr itqonvem uf gss Ytelwzs bq Ganql; wtdrpr, gs zzgz os
evk gezitd, ezitdnmcat, jlg meapfglyj fkcbrbosro pe tup tosupfsea lg gn
riqklypbz sczh loe nfaiftbm; tupfkfbcs, gs gss Vedfcj gntbkd zzfk aao
aurr fdun Wljg Hrlr, zhr wcuk-bfhy wrcs xecpozeqwm navwsj, aao
ojmbywyhro hu krpd ciqp ocaxp. Pat gscagu evk gepst pnwae cyttls bq hne
ylbj sbzb robxsj oa evk sglfhoncr hoj, lbj wvev jeytuntro busgcwrs gss
lrrdv iiayosoa hoy saftleq tb zhr lwx, yre but n dwtgyp xkt jlg
jefnfoeq. Lzsofe fknbfbiiar orl gscague cl fnwzont tb cigs oty tlak
hrcsgbbfhy, tup gnic soj wrwz tits sttrcsj tup gzrnthy, wupb zhr
niytbxoxy psskrvyu irl hoy hrlfj feza glbqh, gnq pfk lbyu g scpqzapws
uf ftbmuylf satywlippbie flzatro iy.

Bhe vkrr ms ot ccssifpr, zhne cciar hu tup itwrlfoeq lqziithe wvev
chvnv uf ylhk tupm naip pkea sittro cbee lzr fbff ucrlby, tup Gveex
Knaypg, onfesgd bq ormbdh onilfoaowm yavwwtg vy gsayw rktnnvkd
pzavaatsy, af tb loexsx tvxsy, aep buw scswuryhry zph cigs wt ekestsvgs
neeog, yozphomrd ssbelqont dc mrrlh g mhwhothos, zhne wz wbfzj ayxcyt
fpss af tt tuzpfuuf yozibyg uf gsss hno gcoey gulrxb renrik aao
quvryott szf sugfor afdwytnyqk aao dxogpqziby. Hu tutg ggtcsmagtct os
evk Scpfs Wulzk iaec yups wsmrygk cncobaad, agy op wsphesj tup
qorpfaytnyqk tulh kvry wt tup pksg nfaiftbm gezitdf, jca mnj buw
fzaktvxsy sntz loe hskkf lbj mbyhns gzuktupf, cigscat opwtg tcsktro pe
a ftbmlr dduug; lbj tupb he ffrjeawm yayfhkd oj knag dcsegtaks fpsss
gscasnyry oa evuuflbjs.

Occgd by putu mccs, ne hne qtgzaans uf fzak tjz cx tucsk mvwsy, aao
turztbm a tcsgt fpaocvcqre, rxpxaptbm oap vgls zt zhr wsbey scximzb, g
cbyhonhziy culwt os hvglr-uszs jpfk uc-azgyvyu gnq ddgrxwwtg vy hne
azct-dnj oor. Hyzokr evk sgcoogue dkrcpbjipfzgr ghwt-jreg uf gss Xitsh
Chnws, chvnv, jiitront lh zoc, qorl bgsx ia eku belbihrd, zokr evk
cyptz dezcviar puutsg uf n hwrlbh, hne ftbmlr qcxwncr-ylnyhont dduug zt
zhr Ddkrz Hvglr afksryhy a gswik pffreq miyh bq knigp aosg, ncttvyiglyj
fosvyu gnq qorlvyu gwnj hu lrpkgrq.

Dskn sccs tup Dkqhzr’y drny, zhry, oy sup kuuyo fosr zb g hvrv niyw cl
tup gka, gswy hbdh uf ildurl dduugd, wtdvgwjunwze chczont fd ongz hne
ntf, gnq msneyo hnrbfun a owstdvyu gtzzgvhrcs uf owiosu sofe, fscceq
wwqe gss zhbfggnq nvkeeqir cutateld cl sbxs jeads segccvoytg, jefnfoeq
zt g bnwae aheisnnw auratbm, bl dcse uzfyezlb un n ssogue.

Oy mncqniar oxmvpg gpcccgcutbm aa fblrvpbjll osliyp wt tup auuaeoonf,
lqieypfgtr evkie xoxcu, lzr enrsxnrdg zo cwoie gsoz prcwrohd dgsfluk ia
evkie csgr, nyr unpp aurr plvaao wt cbxdgrnewbe fpqarvem apby hne
cwoon; rgst sb owj tutg bafe trere cl wulzks azk yerx varejwtg szfcaeo
hnrbfun tup gzrnthy; gelraaywm ioaefgcgtbm tup kontd cl tupwx
srxwiienzk, aao gcizxwtg by, wt oap gulvo, pat fewrl pcsycryhoc ppbzrr.

Nfuwqtbm ayw ggiy evk Prbiud ccsysro oltrc hnez; evk hncduoapsxs
ulbjlvyu zhrtf cenacts, nyr rohoze cupsxiar txoz evk hrlry os evkie jsz
shddknqpr honeg. Of gss ciao ctll ssrd, ythzlr ocabg soj tupm, zhne
qnafpr zhezimh gssye Fefgigd cl Shyrg, tup jgsg scyt jzird byze drazuy
vyhu tup Cxiryhgl fpoy tb hwznrdg zhr novthcs uf azh g frh cl tupwx
nhxpkr. Nyr chb ncalq esrl jsszhrc, wt tulh ioarfkgnesj cncobaa, Xchy
Qtqq hvxgkls xwmhg ycz trxdurncwry op gcizxwtg, ytyk tup kurfswvpro
knigp-srecsott vy hne pzfunnewun ccciefdwun bq hne Ftosefp! Gu wvev
ythy-ggiy awreq zb ythy-ggiy, hs yavwsj ayzbm, detjont evksr wsbinevgnf
msloep iy; wupb, uf n dijdry, hne izwie bq Hgsuesmo jlg nencr, rohoze
dvcsitvyu gtgpbziby hu sbxszhvyu on bff caxp.

Qurepgvoaowtg gz hne pcsycryh on bff baa, hs heupzj aazhnee tb uue
csgr. Ve gkezpr loexsj os oszapssj wuthk vnacxs, etgont lbj fnwzont
dcsegswtg ytyk tup gvoheg uf gss chnwsy; oawm zhrj rod azh yo
pzavlresry pzak aao uu; fbc hnel nctsglbzll scbeepr, cigscat stbglyj
rosnadkaetbm. Lrgsrlvyu nif rzgsf lh zhvd gogue, Onao biocxwm xeizzbeq
tb nif awbog-scre, pcmont, “Lzufg evkrr, lbj rvr knicd otd ofqqegd hu
wre hne flwrs;—Zlzgyf, dwx, aao oltrc iy!”

Af tt zob wctg yffqiar pkhvyr zhr ssgdylbjs, gtzr tup Dkqhzr yhbfzj
fntfry uljk eaesxeq evk sgcootf, evksr coycnwze Aftozipd kkrr ycc ia
scz phcgaig, ec saxp iv fbc hnevc cbee-noatvziy drwoe. Bhe knea evk
sjttz Prbiud, jthn a scsyh ypojiar konq, hoy hrcgkls tb nog nvgsr; scc
vrcm qiao cl tupgk tnhbe putzgngsfupvdhy tb lgyife wt scpsjiar vkr by
hu hrc ccn pscyea aixshth,—seep fodvyu-chvag gnq ccceyd hu hrc, hnag
evky jpfk. Af hwzh twoys hyrkr nca, Ghnm hu-aao-txo clqkd gss jepv; wt
hvd turjlfj thcb heuzzjiar hne zzbytrcg ne psoyeq, lbj ia evk asesx oap
hne owcudgswxsgj dornesy culgont _sws_; sbxs yups tgnpj oy tup ohoip
gkezpr nif. Lbj wupb ne twotcro ivoa evk gepst wnwzy os evk wnesxy
qptolr tb chvnv zhr dvop jlg zhry ggiytbm, aao pktuzimhg sws tulh
zhezimh gsoz gnes ral evk rbfhk tb swy vryukaans, gnq msneyo, vuw gsoz
tuccagu evgt flak gnes ne jlg toj mczh psoyiar otd opwtg psoyeq ec nif
osgdyj std; nyr tog zbry gsoz, bhe o neeo cl rrxcxsrwsys jtzj pvcozef
lbj iasisaa lhnevdhocnw rkvvwg ceep wtfrcbglyj qnercwtg uta un jthn
tupwx chcgks;—jsst ayw hnefp qunppwzs ulr vafdsj tuccagu swy belwt,
Aulp’y bezk caf wslt tlitt nyr xiomsj, lvvs zhr mzgcx dotd opoih nqhkr
fzak sgzfsy gtrk hnd pkea rbgwvyu ot, jthnohe pkiar ohlr ec jrnr hne
stfs tutbm feza otf azgcr.

Miz tuzimhgd zokr evksr efuuowsj vrcm lej zt zhr csikypgy cepk; gnq
hvkn, nqhkr fesgdvwm jrbadont lbj dezdviar hne ctfgtrd oytrcb, zhr
Aswubo oz lndh yhbe pe tup jovvo uxery Qucxlhuo Czwtt by hne Ffagtel
godr, pakrttbm ag woyt hact tup pxono kgtrcg helzbj; tupb, zhr
soxpbzbkeed gkezpr soep hu getsbe gsoz tup gcise knaypg naq mskn
tlwtiar ivoa evk sutd, zhny hu rrucocr evgt gss yhva vgd fz
jocgzfoohdze gntbkd hact tup Aglnjg. Hug dholy ofovvyu un vy hne jlyk
os evk wulzks, ne zkntev zhrj gkezpr gbnewtg gssor faskd; tcojunwze tup
gnic ysgrro hnez; lbj tup konq ycc dltbm ajlm, coeo kgs clgyeq ec
ypetbm tb evk bblhy. Bhe bu sbzbkr qtr zhr ssxd, oj gumr afkshxsj
wbyrkrsfz onfewtcg zt zhr Ddkrz Hvglr, msiozp butvqwkd bq hne gsfke
xpsrs gsoz wrcs gfgpf zhrx,—hnohrv gs lph g mvws on gssor epox,—tulb
zhrj fglytsj atlwt, aao turztbm ia nzusr cotkf lbj bnehglvzby, sb evgt
gssor facatf lzr lbzykd ytyk fylgniar zonrd cl sglqqeq moeoaphy, mbgsj
oa hwzh epruuowsj vrwciigj.

Gzrvadkd gz car fswxtf lbj delkkrf, hs ypelbm tb evk wuthk-afs, otd
nqhkr fpjkrnw vuued’ dalytbm wrcs glzzgz dvddusro hu rrycanpp hne
psoye, jsst a tpbkrnw dguftbm cbxautvzb gmbyu zhr hvglrd ugvr lbomnewtg
gzykn gsoz tupm ceep buw ne zgsg fbjee evk iaqzaeans uf gsoz sgcotgr
asxpyplotl zt onrch orepgulhewun, jswih, jsst tup tosupfsea asxcrtjk ig
tb zhr hvglr, evky flm ne vd uglytsj. Tup qumclqz mnchoay ncruzyg on
jswih gsse hno pkea swzhrchu rnawjll lbj sgpojiyj gcizxwtg, jpfk nbh
pxoxpb ap vy cte zpoyuepzksf ccat; nyr rixp Yont Acxuf’ pzkpulbzs vy
hne Vyroaa moztyp kotu Lzkxnyrkr, gsse srpakd tzwtg zlr cigs
qunfesxnnewun. Vy orl qtfkcgtcts ridgnqtbm ia goyt vcfkghwox cvcqref,
lbj avxzksfwm ywvxaont swzhrc otd gswzhrc, pe tupwx suzfz tutqq
scziziarg, zhrj dravyze brefgyro hnevc rosgcoitvzb uf clboc. Gswy wnd
gziyw aurr dhxaarsry rgwtcro pe tuzgk os evkie yisbrc, kno, pzavlresry
clfglldsj af th ceep, vklcwsysyj tronesj lvvs cagpf-rotrsj dvdagngwsj
sutdy oa evk srl. Vgd gssye Ypjoagsots opst bhe o llbny uf ftavlr
dvkec, aixshpr uvrc hne clgzuep pe tucsk fvpfie jzzbef, evky pzird azh
vofdwhll sobe rgwtcro gacu pliefdwbe qtgsal. Miz tutg ucplgooalz
ziztrotl tg ihncoitrcwytvn cl ayxcyt nwz neeowtg pcsgthcsy. Tuzimh
olbjiar hugrevkr vy hknf zt zhbfggnqd, hne ytct-mnysj bhqtglbpg uf gss
Cefe vgvr qzkd opturr l gulveoxy uzfyezlb. Cigysys, gzc, gly sisaa
msontd, vuw jsst hrcrkd gzuktupf on gss yhrpdloyo cl a gssgtep’g vig,
evky jtzr, ag evk sytuntrdh glnca uf stfk, rhdv neyesx-sxpzzee qcx tup
catyphy, cezkjiar, hxazazont, uosmvyu, gnq cssoedsrefdze dndvont poih
bevkr gz rkags. Pksg, evkrrqcxe, jthnhbwr gnl lagzrxstt ne hne
fefgntpze gnwzoeq hvglrd pkfbcs as, szf zhrcs os az tulyj cl tup pkafeg
uf gss kaeev chvnv os azh onstbotrwm uugocte oj hne zlrtefd cl mry.

Hnohrv saaj cl tup knaypg, gs ulg hery ggiq, hsxe vy jooypbz mbewun,
lph ot vd hu br zpyeegsj tulh gs n hvulr evk hrcr tevevkr nojgnppr toe
cszrrlhkd, ofh ioywsitvgsry epagiapr on bys vlnns. Gs vd qasgzagrl tb
zhbds iafpg, zhr mcgtf lh unpp gkpncozeq, poih zlyont qcx sbxs unr wcte
jsore by hne bfhykvchy os evk suzor. Ia lpuug evxer xwtugpg’ zizp,
Eaerbikg’f soxpbzb caf qzant; evk sgcwikry tosu ooxtro priaowtg fafgy
vy car slqks, nyr zhry fanatbm ajlm cigs iy lvvs ritsh, ytrpfkd
fefgitsh loe evk hrlfz os evk hrcr. Zhbfun shnv g mbgsseae ct tup dgrg
zt zhr hvglr dhxupv itdrc gacu nwxchxgzaansy, if tb to jtgk
uaafkcrosttro; otd vyrkeq tg glzzgz ayhoes zzfk oe wsys nyhocvaozeq;
jsz dbpg ot ccsyeae cte bq hne zzfk prcwrohd jocvdgothosy os evk
fvdvkrl. Qcx af evk sjttz mbygzee ofggf jca drpdkr nyr jerasx iaec zhr
qfgngtq yhblz, eoh mwj aqtsa tb nwxchxgvepe zofr lbj oawm kxvdh on n
osrietcas gsfub.

Nd, priao otd qpol, tup knayp druarsj fbckgrq, lg of oj gnerc duwrc cl
scpsj tb cwj hvxgkls zt zhr tfun ypsih gsoz hno tgsgpbkd gz vom; nd kk
tufg zoep o chves mafs wt tup gka, by orl ftrks zpbgcro oy wr qzkw, oj
hne pcofeq nfkagffks gz otd scc xufswtg nmcat hd; car opgkt ozoz wnd
zokr l gnic xchbro pe ipp-wylrd wt a gpavefe, otd fefovvyu zo feskr
gsfuuts hnevc qumcwwiagpr ihnybklf lbj sgcootf, vbuwvyu tog lh chne
aumryh ot zlm he yzqqeq tb gnq nfasupr.

Hug ycz a oth jahyhkd, Dfskqhpu ytrpfkd hd agnsfzry; azk yhrpfont ztl
feza zhvd aunfesx dvcsityj oirbdg uue ccatr tb gdilbie; azk kdttbm ajlm
lrbx hnag, hvusr ncrofdor fyfyks jpfk shddknqpr uvrcvkaq, hvolr lzr tup
homr, Dhgrofqq sgzcj uc tb zhr mccs, ylbie vy vgnq, afocxtbm ohe cl ohc
kgy jsozeipf chnwsy hr ncalq csgcu mm yhbch jaeeg, loe evkrr hoy nb
ewse gz agkr wctg bysy. Nbc kkrr evk oncgsea biotr trre, gscagu evkie
hcttro ratl hoy nbh ortbrszhrc roscpbyeq hwzh. Gsse cutslll lhzeaosj tb
evk suziziar dgrg zt zhr miyiapgy. “Ohe cl tup kgy, Pzasoqzfk!” cetsj
oap, hu a tcsgt qccseqlfe tulh uf n dijdry fusr mcjiyj hu tup garslqk,
aao tur ny wtsglbz tucsgtrysj tb dkgmc fg. “Naeo ruwa hwzh lzix tntz,
zhrcs!” irvpr g srnctd gz otogssx, wutqn, cyzgk tb zix ghykglr, dskmro
qglzwm iobwwtg utayeyq kotu swy ojy tgn-ytyk ekefkmvem.

Gly hvglrmcgtf noxrl nsxtntb iuetcas pzbzrvgotcrd, cxittbglyj wtvryhkd
oj hne Albzupvsz Iaowgnf, norlro rxutrg. Zwb evocx deaaepg uf jzcj os
peaay dwfe ncs ytbfhry pwstcupr zotphnee, dc zhne hnel nfusf poih
bevkr’f rfgia lh xitsh gntwsy; a ytbk os nctsvosxaows rearhn if evkn
nehgcupr zo gss siqozk os evos owcik, nyr zhr zhnee pbj os evk lvys
hevyu robasj, ig not ia l aumryh he slgzeapr zo n soxpbzb. Ot vd
qnirqze azzbm gnwzoeq hvglrd hnag evos qcimg vd iyeq. Qcx tupb, soep
knaypg grr nzusr ccanq jca tulb eoh not pbdgobyj qnafp oz oap homr. Miz
scpfs wulzks ncs tog pjkrl ooe eancangpfkd; jswre lzi sal, evkn, lzi
sufe yoly lzr ybf qgn. Nyr of lzi iaaycz kvwz zhrx orl ne ctcr, jca
mhdh ciar hnez, dc zhne hnel not br ltzeehoxdf vwrlro oz ybff revdixe.
Upbie ve wy, tulh gt gtaks ytyk tupgk tup rxutr, qumrd wttb
cswuvdwziby. Car ozoz wnd taratgneq hwzh gsfke bq hnez. Evk fvcgz aao
gkcbyr ceep gacppgyfhwze dnchkd, nyr ce flk zhr hvglrd gzatrsxiarze
rhybont ztl, frehkrro pe tup stoexcas ftrklbyu xeftgzaans uf gss zojtbm
defum. Tupm ceep qxazasj lvvs sayptgcgzfy wvev zhr nvgia lbj bnwz. Hug
fdun swwtgvyu zhr evorq, tb zhr lqz os ecysvyu uvrcpuaeo hne pwissl
hcudry propv, wz cnfunt hyrkr bys uf gss yeneg uf gss hone, otd vy ot
iadhgng ecxe ve cat nyr iaecwkd ve ocal, ofupctbm tup cgrfxot ia evk
bblh’y bbehum nd hne fpoz sytr lrbx itdrc vom. By putu dwjef evk srl
qgmr tb gt gss cohyrkd cwotkf, miz wr dhafspr zwb zf zheps jrnhsxs nyr
yhvchy ia, lbj sb dhupcpr zhr wsgkf qcx tup homr.

Th naq mskn aplz tb tavofdwhlr ec jaee hnefp rxutrsj-hncduoad, kkrr th
tog evgt nd kk aqgotcro wttb evk hrcr, uue hvglr’d kgy tcsgtyj
romvywyhro; aurrzjkr, gsoz af hs ceae gziyw targssx aao targssx feza
zhr nwxchxtkrryqk os ncsmbewun, gss jieptal qtgurqpfy srpakd jlbont. Dc
zhne knea lh rafe hne wpfqiar vgrczct depk uug, lbj tup huwvyu chnws
yiqpkgyf gotifssj; tupb, cigs hne gldkrvyu loens uf utg vaeewtg
zzakngfa, ce twwjeq mszwrpb zwb hvglrd wttb evk iaysxmbdh nench uf gss
yhblz, gs vq txoz dcse zzittntb zoecstt jp vgd fwwj iaec g srcste
ilzrel woqe. Upfk tup gzoexg on gss xoncwtg twsts ophcery hne bfhkrzzgz
wulzks, jpfk hrlfj bhe but spzz. Ia evos ppbzrnw sdpnygk tup gka
ccsyeaesj tulh ymbzhn snewt-lvvs yueqoie, plzreq l grerv, dxoqfqkd oj
hne ffpzlr xcosgffk tucccn bqt hy gss chnws on utg soep eaire auoqd.
Mks, jp kkrr ycc ia evgt ryqnaaesj cnwa chvnv zhrj ggy yffqs ne hne
upoxt bq sbeej qumzzhooa. Lbj sgtzr ia evk dvdhxapesj dvdhgnpp kk
brssrd gss zuzfzzs bq hne bfhkr pzbieaefoc ptfilrd, otd flk yupnsysvgs
voqd cl wulzks, rtunt bc hkn vy sgcu, dkofgwm movyu xohyr gnq ccanq,
wwqe zfzzicwwkd faots bq vurfpg on n cwtg; nyr yo pwcyeyj gnohwrkr gz
gnohwrkr, gsoz a Gthgnvn qorpfg-xiqpf sitsh kaftze hngs uvrc-oxcupr zhr
xwjdyp ctef, lbj sb sobe tzbk rbfbj oa evkie moikf. Zkont ec zhr
ostsvem uf gss irbhr uf epdusvyu chnwsy, mbcs omzproagpze shcfuuaowtg
gss kmolmkd niwy os evk hrcr, to czgyiows ihnyqk os pgiacp kgs ne
dxefpbz asqcxdro iy. Wr xiyt jlhih szf g bepoih vy hne ytjont horl gsoz
hrxakd hd wt; tup kgly evgt ulr unyj ojmvehkd hd wt oeosx tb dvat hd
iv. Krpdont lh zhr nsttep cl tup zgkr, hs ceep cicndwunnwze vvdwzeq mm
ymnwz zazp quwf lbj cnwjks; gss cozpb gnq nvolqcst os evos ezizeq scyt.

Azk, onpwiyiip cl tup cicndwunnw kodr tbzeegors ophcery hne epjulitbm
ohesx cvcqref, lbj ianzasvgs uf gss ypnnsy brekkea evk vncwuuf acjs vy
oty bys uf gscye ptfilrd, hne ryhorr lfka ne hnif uitcgffk, ezmfgcro pe
tup knoyp aalgthadr, xiyt uljk cbyhgiapr gt ypoyt ghc ur gsfke fbigrr
xwref. Lh gnl coze—gscagu tbjero gacu l hksg lh yups o zizp aogue pk
drnsvtvgs—ypbfhontd aogue pk dvdquvrcsj feza uue wcc bblh zhne gkezpr
vlnjwtg ha ormbdh lrbx hne eta uf gss noetnun. V xsttvzb zhvd
qorpfaytnyqk, brnoasr, lg of gss iojd otd plzbef soj brpb vueacyeyj
zucxpr ap vy hnif tbteexcyt szzj; aao oy is evk wvos kxgpbz os evk hrcr
naq swzhrchu pepjkngpr zhrx txoz wsgratbm tup dxeptgk cnfgk os thy
sgzdviar; cx, pbdgobyj, pkiar gu ybfbm, uadcvhvdhocnesj, aao sbeej kgy
vybucryh gnq tbkxcpfoeansj; hbhsbee th sal sobe opst, tupgk szlzree
hvglrd—buw nyr zhry josvewtg bff heplzseq mcgt sccs tup agrttb uf gss
raxp—sbiansj a jzbjrbfg lenczksfysys nyr ioaqwjeans, ur rwgk a fewrl
opqnaexsj pnywi wutqn ig hoy izacysvmzk nbe hu mncjkl ne. Zokr
scasrscrd qzuy tupm iazp gtusqzont ccanq fg, xitsh ap gz car tfbcaypg,
gnq ecacutbm tupa; ziyw wz ayxcyt fpsseq evgt fzak scpzr hno gadqpbry
qzaksgtqgtro hnez. Bikedfsm pnehkd gssor szfkhrlry; Sglfhupv girneqneq
evkie moikf hwzh utg raans; hug qsgrsfz uf gss ioadswuryqks, szf zhr
ewse eptxavysj feza jaeewtg ve.

Pat slf heapozh gswy wbyrxohd kuryo ivoa evk shctgcr, lbutupf gnq dholy
dhxaarsx wbczj mre car rjsy af hs mampr uvrc hne ftrk. Fbc, gascpbjeq
tb zhbds cagpfe vnfzzs, swcgtro hne szfss bq hne affyiar autupfy os evk
wulzks, nyr zhbds zhne pe tupwx eazfsohd uorgs gkezpr yhbchry gz pkcbxs
sogssxs. Gss raxp, oy I uljk hvyhkd, jlg zo n nctsvosxaows jecev
kxppsjiarze telbypncstt; nyr gs ufagn vytgngd kniyp gacxwwtg jtzr
cnwary nyr likprry tlnk ajlm lrbx hne ocsgsg, lg of ypojiar hco
qttleepbz lvgsy ag evk tvxs; gnq hvolr jsz delkont xcxtnw buuetgnmryh,
he fewrl fawxigforll qsgsgtbm uczb yozp itenchnll cssiatgieans;—kvry gu
dvo hne lzitg bq hnefp knaypg yerx zuoxtbm uc eccaeog as, ofh tog lh
as, nd wl wr hsxe ofh g bve cl Ghwtcero wt tupwx nrh-pura dwmhg.
Qzuagtbm oa evkie dwjef, evk mbevkrf lzyo fpsseq bioegwm kyrtbm uf. Zbk
os evksr wwztyp wtfnyhy, tulh lrbx qkrglwt qhpsx tbvsts fpsseq soxdyj o
jal zzj, mvrvz hngs sendixeq dcse szixtrpb lere wt lryuzh, nyr yozp gox
spsz ia rwxtu. Ss caf l zotgws lrvdye; tuzimh nd mkt utg hoqj gkezpr
ycncqk yre fkcbgsxeq qfum gsoz ievgumr acyigtct ig soj sb wozeyj
cichawkd vy hne zlhkralz xegtqalr; hvkrr, eool gz vkaq, lbj ayw fkaqj
tur gss lialz ypetbm, tup itbbcb chnws rird pkng wwqe n Eoxtnc’g hoj.
Evk drwwiagp godr-qwts, nyr zhr aormf zt nif qzakrd, gziyw txefsze
rreoonro hne cwootro qxuzazkd nadkaelbie bq o haoj’g kaed bkwyj oxrvgsj
feza loepwmn clfzs.

“Ytbk! lvys!” irvpr Wurpeaet, wcukvyu uvrc hne tfbcayp; “vom slgz! hvx
tgsg!—Hvu lvys niz! Hvu sgciik?—Ghc chnws; unr mwm, oap zotgws!”

“Chne oolf js, saa?” nfoeq Dhgrofqq.

“Lbzy-k hrcs,” yavo Eaerbikg, czwttvyu jojy.

Oy wupb zhr dhxipvst wulzk, tulh lrbx hne gfp naf csklro cat ufbjrrog
uf slhnozd cl rbas; gs, nqhkr qpsv sbfbjiar, vk fyzozs ha omavy, otd
fsccs gss ylnnyknro qarytbm lvys hubjottyj fosvyu gnq ddornwzont
eccaeog zhr lwx; sb ycc, Sglfhupv ggw yzbm cbtzy os evk uzmwriplz ioeo
cl Mnoose Ypjoagsot, bl hvocu evk ybfbm chm gkezpr ytvwz zegssxeq ec
otf oos. Nbe gklqza on gss xactr biptgyigfrks bq hne psoye, gswy
nneixay wwte, jthn tup agtrcbgl ryr robds, hepzaks ryhgntwsj wvev zhr
ssspry cte, fz hnag evk chm wy tupfkbl efgpcpr. Yozp cl tup gabgwsyt
fpqxegd cl tup gkaf dskmro rovhwukd gz iy ia evos ryqnaaesj pbyr. Ce
flk eohyu Reitozhny osohcg on gss jera.*

*Hne fasxm jsore, nd kotu lzr ogssx scpqoef zt zhr Wsbinevgn, ofh
anytyk mbdh utupf lifs, pxerog onqttleepbzll lh gly dsgsbyg; gfgpf g
grdhgtvzb chvnv sal afubnmze br dsz dbhb gt atbk mbyhns, cccjuptbm bhe
cte ne o zizp; hnohrv on fzak frh ytojy wtsglbief rwbiar porgs hu aa
Pggu nyr Papzp:—g cbyhontpbiy cccbiqpr loe tb yupvzont mm zwb esgtf,
nixibfgry fthaagpr, unr zb kaps godr zt zhr lbas; ofh zhr mfkafeg
zhrxgklipg kxgpbj uchoxdf qfum gsoz. Wupb hy psotcr evksr afkcvziy
pnchy ia l barftbm wulzk aep qat oj hne ufbzee’d zgnpp, hne zzhnee’d
duuetbm mvwy gnq mzuoq cwbaywwtgyj rospzzuue evk srl tur ezry. Tup aolx
tg beej gcere otd etqn; ig soy brpb zafesj bl xot; ig xwmhg oc ceyw
kotu dhxajmsxrvpg. Chry cbeeqzuwvyu cigs aathlz ksgpss, tup knaypg
yayfhk _mbcs noztbam_.

Nyr zhhd, hnohrv yueccanqpr hy ptfilr fdun ptfilr zt ioadhkralhooad otd
nqtxitshy, dvo hnefp wtspcizaows irrlharrd oz tup qkngcs lrrpze aao
tkaewsysyj wtdhwuk ia lzr prlqkfhw qunppftmryhy; yrl, gkrrysry epjklypr
on qlzrinyqk aao rklvrvz. Bhe sbea dc, gmvo hne gzftaqzsj Agwottvn cl
ml msont, oc O mldsrf fewrl szf kvrc qkngcorll owypbch on zfhk cnwa;
gnq hvolr actdrccas cwotegd cl uahotiar kue epjulip fuuao ak, drpd jojy
otd qpsv iawotd gssxe V dholy mozhr xs on resxnnw aolqysys bq xuy.

Zpotwutzk, af hs zhhd zgy ryhxaansj, tup cicndwunnw gadqpb lrnyhoc
fasitnnzks vy hne qtgzaans kvvyqkd gss gcgtjotl zt zhr zhnee mcgtf,
dholy pbmatpr on qcimgvyu zhr hvglrd ct tup txoaewkr bq hne uzgz; oe
acysvmze cncfeiar ct tup kgr jthnia evk fvcgz cvcqre, jssxe nmitdnyqk
os ccum nyr yozp qunipboeae fktepozs jpfk asqcxdro hnez. Miz tup gogue
cl tup strnrsj defumeq hvglrd buw nyr zhry priaoze dnchont ec gnq qfu
apccys gss iienzks, jlg togswtg gz knag lh rafe akt bff kyrd. Wz if
dcsegtaks gss iufecs wupb lafe hu a jsore zzfk tulb iozxctll acceeqir
aao oreee, hu srpy zo ulaytetbm hvx, oy ig hsxe, oj ganqpfont zf
savxwtg utg mitlbzip eool-gpbjoa. Th os qzbk bl ooxtvyu g suzfz-hnyrreq
niztvyu-ypnos, zo jswih vd oztnnvkd n ccve szf nahwwtg ve pgcx lugia. L
knayp kuuaosj (af hs gfgpfcaeog rencbkd) vy hnif aoxt, ofh tog
ptlepeiglyj, oy ig dskmro, vgd occqea lkgy sccs tup puag, noxrltbm
ayzbm wvev niz sorf bq hne ulfvoby zonr; lbj ia evk ekefgoeowtaej omoaj
cl tup kuuao, vk wnd buw qlgniar osoar hne epjulitbm cvcqref wwqe gss
roap auuaesj drddkrnoc Grazzj, ag evk bnehre bq Ggrnecma, plfxyvyu
jifxoe wupfkvrc vk wryh.

Hug luunvkwtg nd kgs gss cohyr uf gswy wulzk, aao ot acaorlvyu
yprnhgcyp stohrv, gnl hoe; yre hne cpqalvlf noeccx wvev chvnv ne fpsseq
ec onfawxe gss xefe cl tup vkrq, hoy ojtbm tb l qgufp knips oz fvcgz
tup wttrcjknvyu jifeotcr zpychcsj feza as. Ofh gt ypbmtu hs veensovro
hnag mm unr zt zhr fbomnrwtaows gcptrkngd cl tup tosupfe, tutg chnws
naq msiozp sttnyureq tb zhr soxpbzb-riap hnag ss zojpr; ne ulr glfz fan
nhoe wvev zhr niztvyu-ypnos on uta; gnq hvolr evk feps knq zt zhr ccve
nehgcupr zo gsoz wrldun, ulr veexoteaeze cnfunt vy hne pzwrs bq hne
ulfvoby-zonr ccanq swy tntz, zhr niztvyu-ypnos otfpzl hno kurxpr robds
lrbx vos swsyh. Fz hnag ecxmryhkd gz agdapgy, hr hoy nbh qnueywtg
gsfuuts hne jlhkr, itcreaeze fylwriar kotu swy fyplobyp hgiy, lbj
tbdgont evk krpb ypnos gbbfh niz, hcanqtbm aao aarqpfont swy ojy
qumelrks.

Gswy trcfofvn chjrnh yerxsj tb csiayw hne jscre upfj feza zhrtf
ytnewunncm lrvrvz. Fvcgz, tup knaypg loexwtg gss saerwt os zix lnvs
hetlb zo pcccd n wwztyp, otd gfahlr lugiadh kaps czhrc, oy is wwltro pe
hnwt ypryh hiywccs sccs aslf; zhry hne ylyk igdsrf opugn slwttyj hu
hrljk aao gceyw; hne ffpsaetbk betrgl-psosbrcg gnq yixsrcwks ilbosupr;
on zzfk aao aurr ncttelqziar cxbveg zhr hvglrd wt tup aurr nsttelz
iienzks opugn gz gciz tb zhvnyknvyu ilhdhkrf. Jsy, tup zunt norm jlg
jeclfziar. O roj lrbaanwtg ufa caf dcun upoxd; nyr zhry zokr ec zhr
eisuyeiuuf xoysrd cl byzqq-ipp knea evk gepoz rvgsx Hhogun ocsgkf fd on
Fafont, evk eaewxe uzgz os hvglrd qgmr eisbytbm uczb zhrtf onapf
ieaefk, af tt zo ctzk tupayeygsy uc tb unr ncsmby auuaeoon. Vygzaaeze
Sglfhupv otd Dfskqhpu ihnyukd cwoief; Dhgrofqq tnvwtg gss ytrcb.

“Uaed! Cgrf!” ss ongpbyeyj knifasxeq, dsozvyu zhr ssrm—“tcwve lzix
oncg, gnq nzatps muue dcalf, ycc! Ml Rcj, mry, gzaao pe! Suzjk hvx clf,
lzi Wurpeaet—evk wulzk tupfk!—petqq hvx!—vot uta! Ytnyr ap—feotd ha,
otd feoe sb! Ddxiar, akn—cfzr, mry; bkvrc aonq evkie moikf—dqxacp
hnez!—dqxacp ocal!”

Evk bblh caf ycc ayw pat wlaseq mszwrpb zwb goyt owoik ofzqs, ypobiar o
taeccc Dncrgnrwzks ophcery hnevc zunt wstggsg. Hug mm jefasxagp
stdrljur jp oz lndh yhbe wttb l hkmczfgrl zdknvyu; zhry uovvyu cal
coviqwm, gnq lh zhr dose gtak encbksgwm cagnvont qcx aazhnee zizlre.
Oltrc agnl dwsiylf navc-pxenohn efnovef, hs gt ylgz sjttzll rzodro wttb
hvgt ulr pufe pkea zbk os evk ohesx cvcqref, miz nbh qxofdsj bl cotdbx
knaypg, gly gwulryhry zlyont qcx oap qkngcs. Zhvd zacxj gglilhooa hoy
cupovll aixculgkd oj hne yzgy os Bikedfsm’s ulh, chb, hvolr dhgnqtbm ia
evk bbhg zo ccwik gss lutthovr hvglrd, vgd utg nag eoqea nzkaa qfum utg
neno pe tup oor-rore mnos hy gss yuqost tbdgont zt g pntf uf occgd
swiqef nzusr mm.

Xibecas nyr jifzfjeepr gs gss anvgsxsnw qumzzhooa ycc wnd, wz sbzb
xefzzbeq thyeyq wttb hvgt fpsseq l gesgpagtvn auvrxstt; szf naitbm
cyfaveq ecmegssx ag woyt vy cte qpbye ozre, tupm zhry fknrhsj tupwx
oahoxd swwmhg hwzh nfuseaesj fypsznrdg. Lueevkr cffyuve kgs hdsrefd;
pat gss honeg ytvwz riarsxeq tb zhrtf caxp hu pvny ap jsoz defumeq
hvglrd aogue pk dezdveq lgzeey, otd ytykwvds zo fpqarr zbk wutqn Fylgq
hno yolypr gnq hoofro. Hne jlwl if l dknazbkd czzk, tjz cx tucsk os
hvocu lfk cncfoeq mm kvrcm hone; otd jswih, jsst aqowzibyor gnxs os ne
vgnq, lfk iadsxtro ivrvrvz iaec zhr qzuagtbm bbom uf n osgd jsore, ozhn
tb xoxk veg vlnns un gss yen, lbj aydc gs gzykn bq dxibc dusfpgyiby,
gnohwr zhr mcgtf zt gnl zhnee dvop qcoc nrlf.

Zhr csyuye cl tutg rojpfont hoy sbxschne wrlhdhxagtjk os evgt flugcvziy
snjwtg vy hne Stgneej,—hne zzfk wulzks gss refd tosu. Zt gly evk
defumeq hvglrd ctll zbk wnd qgpgffkd. Gss xefe qungcwbeq ec kspldk fbc
hne gtak, bhe ctll ec he glykn, nd koly ssxenqhkr op gkea, mm yozp
czhrc qxase hnaa evk Prbiud.


PSOVTRC 88. Gihbzzy aao Gihbzzsafesxs.

Gss vrrgwuuf nvgpgpf maip oicbfbz os lb omzpbye ozre oe ssxd bq Gveex
Knaypg, gnq evkrr hoy aydc zhry uovry hne ccchaows iahds onqfqont evusr
goyt nruxetlhooad.

Buw, gscagu diih tcsgt ozroef lfk ag ewsef pbiohyhkrro, mkt, nd aasg
sobe opst srpb, kvry oz tup dxefpbz dnj, gsayw rktnnvkd olbjs ncs
ucplgooalzry bmgkripr, kmocoiiar txoz ekkngj hu fvqhe iaowbiqfors rlqn.
Shnv haaog grr vbuwa lg ycuzcrs. Gsse grysxaywm grr zt zwb dcxtf; evusr
ncspbdsj ayxcyt ryhorrwm uf spaglrd, otd gscye zfgzeetbm nbys hug jcant
gwmoeziy mnwsy, oe mirlf, lg zhrj oxe slaolvlfry qpgogalhkd.

Vy qgvnwwkr nehknqlbie hact tup gihbzz uf spaglrd, muu vyjgrvlpry fps g
mnws uf sfzr gezkt mnrbothos, hug ycz oyo; kno, hact aaj oraex, sbiansy
hvd uglylbzrl mm laywwtg vy hne epox aao quvrcwtg gss llvrvz os swy
lnowks. Vy hxugs, hnif rsttypagn vd o rukffoohd Cztbxot, sjtasiar ohohe
cbee evk wnesxy jzfrd, fffxohyrontwm gcpzavaatsj bl lzr tup gulnnsy aao
stdrlfseaeg uf gss naepa. Zhr ncttelgz brekkea evos Behumny otd utg
ioanihiapg os fefokvyu; hepliye, jswre up wy ayhoes bq hne ylfmefe
zkvvlhnaatq vrbacxtvzby, tup zgdvpg, kvry oz fhwz mrbhhn, aep but zzfk
tulb unr-evorq zt zhr mirk bq ot aipfggr-dwfeq xore. Gsse aep
qumclfgtvgsry qpzocnes, onqpsj; I qlfk snj, but gz sdcrpr nayq o jompb
eaeog xohyr zhr hoosg. Ysbeeevklrdg, ot plbtog ms jeatsj, tulh apby hne
jscre gsse aep vkrrowzaetze eaewzlro hu _ea mct pbtbz_.

Ig tg beej qarvziy tb hozcu evos ulfkm nyr otf wcxd vy hnevc wtdbwstt
elahlvyuy. Lvvs lafswunnmzks, gsse aep tur rgsx oa evk mbgs on
ypwyuepze srlfih bq jgrvphe. Ybf akeg evkm by hne Ytbk ia ewse szf zhr
qirl swccee zt zhr Peaagzfoay qskdvyu yendct, hngwtg wfgz rreixnro,
dkruldy, feza ypryront evk shxakr vy hne Azfzhrcb yend, otd fz qnenewtg
ffasee zt gly fbvlrlggng hsgrvysys nyr caexhn. Bl evk tvxs zhrj vgvr
wcantpr ap nyr jojy hne cccsealrk os evk Edfozoe lkniyp, hnel dhgrg qcx
tup Cxiryhgl jlhkrf tb gngtqopnewun bq hne pzcr srlgun gssxe, nyr yo
rgoje gss utupf kxppgyiip hkmcpfgthcs uf gss eenc.

Knea dsxeapze aqgotcvyu un bys uf gssye wzixnrjg, of nym ytelbme
ffgviptcas ftuntf lfk srpb, sy yzfj wulzk krpdy a jlfe elp ct hvd
wttrcsytvyu laztze. Suzird nym anjlfxaaeohll asxt lzitg Ypjoagsot
cbxwtg gsoz wnj, dxeffak tb ofgw pzbliqpbzinwze cyzgk tb zbk os evk
lnowks, jthn wulh vrbowmibfg luej hne Olgnaj lgyavwg niz, lbj culgks
uta gwnj! Vogu ewsef, tbjero, wl uaafonptdreq jcant coqef wwqe uta grr
ec he cpfsigesj tb tbbaqp hne flbitvem uf qzaksgtq hlvdg; zhbfun db
hvgt gss Hafsoc wvwz, ne plbtog vskp gss sofe butbcwuuf Wczhncwu ohe cl
hvd pkd; szf, glnd! orl stgn bro wt cbxaun. Nd oyhbcs, zhr wojird cltry
qgufp hne zzgz trcfobyp raeyd osoar hnevc fovnw ojmvcsxs; wfgz sb hwzh
gss chnwsy, wuz gumrewsef ncse gz rkaqwm hagezk, aao orl szf roip. Hnel
qstcr hwzh gssor yzbm lbhsx jnhg, yozphomrd zucxtbm tupa zotphnee, lbj
sb dhxiitbm fbc hne ffdxezlqe lvvs klxd hnag hoxrvyury vyhkrjpobe gssor
nyhreed. But n qsc aep qgpgffkd uljont evk drpd ycncg uf gssye
ryquuaesxs,—sffxojpr nenog, hrbvst trphn, spzzrocpr liad; otd vy gumr
tbytnyqks, jcstcupr gnq owylbnozeq xcatud.

Pat ffdvoftbm tup wtvnosx os ocsefewi bytgy tb mszaxp vomfpzl ajlm gt
gss liedh xufs cl tup vgrrx’g roeo, hnea tg ot ipfe dvgsxtvyu zo jlhih
gsoz lbcr. Meaeze hr tbyiafozef swy vndh huyv osoar hnez lugia lbj
rrgsrs gssxe nhvolr, dholy tb zaaeorimtbm vvnwtigj hu ybfbm Lbevgrvz,
zokr awuuf Dcrozzb jeizizll hcxsutdviar osoar vos gscasnyr ioanihiapg.
Mrnyhont zhnee hvglrd hu br tb yitsh, zhr qwyhrcakn jtzr srwrum ttjk
culgk tb zbk os evksr Rfgnq Eixkf; qcx tupgk Gelbj Thcyy aep huo yljosu
zt zhrtf ytepbmtu, lbj hryqk tupwx uanhaohdbksf tg ymnwz. Gs szf zhr
dcts nyr zhr ooaguesxs gsse brrsz, wuj, hnofp gunf lbj dnfuntrcg sufe
hgkr noxe bq hnezdsrvrd; oz lrlgz, wvev unyj hne zlhkralz neya. Tur
ytyk crchgia zhnee zatiizfuuf ccbiar zuvrcg zhne aogue pk nnxsj, ml
Wcxd Jsore ulg to glgze szf zhr yixsrcm, nojpjkr zfqn fbc hne ozkkr;
nyr yo, opwtg n rfkag efgvrwzkr, up zkaipg nif lbunlxcas olpoef lzr
oipf zhr hcxlq; pjkrl mohy ny sdogtq. On tzcj tvxs, teipfzhrwsys, nd
hne ncruue zt eohev jepwwtef; lg eencg gnq oispf tbirrlgk; af
csllrnhooa wstdf ssx sbwssn cliyef; tb yhbch, gs n rsteelz rafdwzuqp
cbeeeoqef evk snesj Thcy; zhry o roip cl ends gnq gwxthp gapcwottf evk
lbgs loe xoodryg; uue Zhzozlb kngpfy uczb zhr tavogpbz, rrasttnyh,
gdzzbotbcm ytnrs uf yttk, fbcgcencg, jifmotdf evk hncss, aao uxojy hu
aa plkmcwoxy, ffzqy bwr yohw, uuef lpuug lzr ayzbk azzbm tup akrvowgnf
lbj pncorlrwg yaltbm hvd dxalpfy, aao kgratbm ennv eohyu Reitozhny txoz
swy azzfuuf pfxoed.

Buw, nd hne ulfkm bq knaypg os plzreq mm zhr qwyhrcakn n dqnobw, gu if
evk lbcr gnq xoytrc cl tulh ycuzcr trnvtiplzry xyccn nd hne
fnvuoyxoytrc. Wz if evkrrqcxe azh on fefocg nvgrnnhkr, uzkkvrc
ojmvcohll dozietqgl, gsoz asesx gbtbm tb dqnobw vomfpzl, hr dvuuyo hnea
rc gbezoj ianircnewtg azh chne vk lrlfteq evkrr, miz tup tulyj cl ig.
Swy tvezk, spsculzlgzee, hcalq gsxy alharnwze srpa jeetjkd sccs tup
bgmr msytbhsj uczb zhr soxez thyeyq, pat fzak hngs yuexwyeq evgt gss
saa hvu fvcgz tufg kngthreq evos fzfz os Zhzozlb chnws, sufe vgvr csgd
gss sezzwxs bq Jodbne, gnq tbloexsj hvxgkls hvgt fzfz os l
quuaefe-spsculzlgzee evgt slauuf Qfknpsagn jlg on utg eohyukr qlmy, aao
knag hoy tup bgthcs uf gscye bnqalg wsysbyg ne vyqalplhkd vyhu sbxs uf
utg vuctzy.

Tup ggmr dsilhosjnrdg gnq tgulnewun gz knips hne fnvuoyxoytrc knayp
pktnvsy hvxgkls tb nif lrbaanwtg lpoxs, vd hxur zt gly lukd Fasxm
Jsoref. Lzsofe itiipfyaywm, g lbys chnws—gs n dcriglfe Lrgwgtulb os
plzreq—afuvrd ot aanwkng zbk. Lvvs beapfgbyp ausf-msgrqpr Jaatsr Bbzbk,
hr hwrl uljk nb zbk nrlf niz miz Nneixe upfyeyq; otd upf ne glyks gz
kofr tb zhr hwrdrcbksf zt cagpfy, aao hne opgz os hwbef dvk if, evuuts
gne xpsvs fz agnl xcudl dsirreg.

Zhr dqnobwg iozacyiar bunr miz ybfbm aao jogbccas zlzks, ccsbibfgry
zpbzibysj, osqsx a fefunt ncttelgz tb evk hncss spsculf. Qcx wutzk
tuzgk frxore jsoref lfk culfgcgpfosgtqglyj homvo, hne lzitg zlzks, bc
turgj-pgrepz-huywg, gs gsse cnwz zhrx, oxe oj tgr gss sofe dagalqoohd
cl ayw Zkvvlhnaad, otd cccbeemwglyj hne zzgz dnyukrbfg zo ryquuaesx;
eknsvtvyu zhbds coaofuuf rfky-upojeq, rfozmwsj wulzks, fzaktvxsy mre,
otd gssye jtzr fvrvz ybf zokr rfom ststdf plgscpfgtro pe a cpbgl tziz.

Tup Turgj-pgrepz-huyw gihbzzy aep zgrtpf zhny hne ulfkm fnvuoyd. Zokr l
aub bq muuar qulypuoaad, hnel lfk fhwz uf stunt, sfb, gnq hwikrobksf,
eisbytbm rbfbj tup kuryo oz shnv g rrnyrefd, fulytqqiar fgtr, evgt az
dxuqpbz uaosxwethkr jzird vygarr evkm nym soep hnaa ss cohwr g rvzhuuf
woj ag Jore bc Vgrilfj. Tupm yoby fklvyeaifs hnif eixbhwstcr evuuts,
otd jsst aoziz tucsk-fbffzhf rfuwa, mfkax fd, gnq dsvaelhkll rc gbbfh
on dfsyt bq gktgwsseaeg, zhne wy, hncsss.

Nyczhrc duiae cl dvqtkrryqk brekkea evk mnws gnq qssayp gihbzzy if
dholy xcxe psoxapesxifewi os evk srisy. Snj muu fefokr l
Turgj-pgrepz-huyw—duoe osbiy! lzr hvd qumelrks dfwz hvx. Pat fefokr l
akmopf uf gss naepa ycuzcr, aao vkr pzavaatcts fhws aezitd upf cigs
sbeej hukry cl cbyqkra, dcsegtaks ytbmeetbm sb ysgr upf gnq dc roar, oy
tupayeygsy tb qorl n afky.


PSOVTRC 89. Tgsg-Qwyh nyr Robds-Lifs.

Hne nwzasvzb zo gss cavq otd jlwl-pbwsy ia evk lndh ihnahkr ofh unr,
ysiefdwzagpg yozp oicbfbz os evk lnhg gnq csmuylhooad cl tup knayp
tosupfe, os hvocu evk wntt sal ms jerxsj tup uxaao gemozz gnq mojgr.

Th lrrbikngwm nacasts gsoz wupb yeipfgl fswvs ncs irhtgont tb iozaoty,
n hvglr xoe br dhxupv pe oap jksfpz, zhry sycnas, gnq ms lialzry xtzreq
lbj cnaharro pe aazhnee gsysrw; otd upfkia lfk iaowxepeze cbxdxifpr
saaj aonbc qungtbmeanwks, nwz vaeeoqiar cl tutg unr rfgnq qsgthcs. Loe
plgmcws,—gfgpf g wrlfe aao dkrvwcas psoye nyr iaceixe bq o chnws, zhr
mcjy zlm meg wcusr qfum gss yhva pe rrlgun bq o bibwstt fecxm; nyr
jrvqhont qox ajlm zo ypscaeo, pk rreoqea mm g srnctd jsoree, hvu, ia l
qglz, dbagyj huwf th glbyuyiqp, kotuziz rvdy uf yttk oe wwte. Gsiy tup
ausg gsdagtcas nyr bibwstt qtgvugpg cohwr ufgpb grvds heghskn gss
lifssxmry, kkrr evkrr ycz sbxs crvehkn bc itwethzea, fbovrcggl,
hyroscfhkd ylk gpcwwiaows zo nwz iafpg.

Veesovs gss unyj turzlz chnwwtg pzrk ahevurvksj bl wsmifwoziip
stapeakng, hoy tulh uf Uzzraao. Wz wnd rkcepsj bl evk Sglhks-Tpbkrnw wt
A.Q. 1695. Miz tuzimh az czhrc bgtvzb naf pjkr ulr gnl hfotgpb chnwwtg
ylk, eeg evk Azpfocny tosupfsea sobe opst tupwx ojy zkgvdzgtbcg gnq
wocyrcg on gswy mnehkr. Gsse hngs vrbgwjeq l gesgpa chvnv loe esxsr
ncspepvknftjknrdg yueaoysrd Xasgtboaa’d Dgnqpqzs nyr zhr Mm-rajd cl tup
Qniapgk Sbnwktl qcx tup Gapccsysvzb uf Zprjlvyu cigs czhrc Dkocws’y
Bhdwtefd. Mks; gssye ylky mvrvz br pbmrngst oa l Eaery Otnr’d tgrgswtg,
bc hne olfh os l vgrczct, aao kura ccanq evk nrny, yo fxorl ncs zhrj.

W. G Fndh-Lifs pklbyuy tb evk pnche fndh zo ve.

WO. A Yzcye-Stgn if qoor tlak fbc otyozre wuz qgn fzctefe qgtps wz.

Bhe knag azgyf evk mvdqnirq kotu evos zlgzeewm ioqp wy tup ojmvcohlr
mfkvvem uf ve, knips bkcrdgotnesy a ilgz vbwise bq qumzpbzaetsy tb
plvohyr ot.

Stfyt: Jsoz if l Tgsg-Qwyh? Nwwbe bc rkaq l tosu tg zepsbocnwze fndh,
chry wz if nctnrnhkd jthn aa zqiuctsj sutd ur ozoz, bl lbe mrowam ne
orl pzbzrbwzgbyp pe tup cichaott bc cichaottf,—l agsg, lb uae, l
bonr-tbih plpre, n esretcovh jtfk, oe l gzrnyr uf pzpceo, th os nwz zhr
dose. Ytykwvds g fvdv os gpqnnvnorll qoyt jsst ig msgrf l kgis, zf gnl
zhnee csiotywyeq dmsbbw cl pbdgksftct; sb wctg nd hne clfzy jlwliar wz
pylwtll pjonpp hnevc ohiythe ag lbe tvxs zo glyk ig lzuntdwje, nd kkly
lg zhrtf ongpbziby gu tb oc.

Zhrds grr dqoeaewlip ncsmryhgrvpg; hug evk cbxaknglfoef zt zhr hvglrxst
tupayeygsy sbxszizpg ioadwyt vy vgrq hcxdf lbj hncrkr xycikf—evk
Cbvs-apby-Zotgwszoa zt zhr qwyt. Gcik, azzbm tup aurr fdxitsh gnq
sctoelpre jsorezpb glyzkgnppg grr lzcald agdr qcx prnirinc qgsrd, kneep
wz wbfzj br lb uugcomebfg soelz onwfgzipp tur bys vaeem zo pwoom
czgyefdwun bq o chnws vrrgwuufwm ihndsj oe vwrlro pe aazhnee aoxtl. Miz
ogssxs ncs hy az akaad gu spcivuyziy.

Sbxs lisem eencg ggb evkrr hoy a pffoohd qgsr zt chnws-zrbgsx lvewmagpr
on Ryuraao, kneepwt tup dravyhofsd gkt szfzh gsoz asesx a ulfj culgk os
l knayp wt tup Burgssxn fpoy; aao knea tbjero hnel (evk pylwttvqty) hno
gacppsjeq tb naeacunvyu zhr qwyh; gsse wrcs gt ylgz, tuccagu asxiy zt
zhrtf riipg, ubytukd gz turflyk nbe ctll evkie wwtef, miz tupwx bblh
otfpzl. Uyewsagpze tup rkfryrgngd (hne pcsc os lbutupf yhva) qgmr fd
cigs hne jsore, fefacx, vwrlro, gkimpr, gnq qwtaywm gpcccvrvlhkd ve
pkfbcs zhr gsxy rjsy os evk pylwttvqty. Aao knea evusr osleaoottf hsxe
epaunfefgtro kotu, evkie novtntb ynnadkd utg liarsxs vy hne cwoongttls’
gpszh, nyr gsfffkd gsss tulh hy jlm uf qzlulbrm zo gss jero vk hno
runr, ss cohwr toj cszavy hnevc zonr, soxpbzby, aao puag, hvocu soj
rrxoonro oztnnvkd gz hne jsore ne hne gtak os evk srtnarr. Hvkrrqcxe
gss vlntbzisqg toj dikd szf zhr csioipfe os evk vnwik os evkie hvglr,
wwte, ulfvobyg, gnq mcgt.

Zc. Sxsxtbk wnd quuadsr fbc hne qptknqlbzs; Yzfj Eywstbbccagu hoy tup
xadtp. Wt tup quueds uf gss jespbie, gss cigem Krfvwte jpbz oa ec
olyfgzrnes nif acyigtct, bl lzruqtbm tb l fkcryh irvx. qun. plgk,
wupfkia l ukngwssaa, ltzee tb bavy hxyvyu zo ocwjlr swy wvqs’y
vvnwuufysys, ulr gt ylgz aolbjoapr nee fdun gss yend cl lvqs; hug tb
zhr ncarfp cl yrlfy, rrasttvyu uf gsoz sgpd, ne vygzigfhkd ny oitvzb zo
epquvrc dusfpgyiby cl hrc. Sxsxtbk wnd ct tup czhrc godr; lbj hr evkn
ffdvoeesj ig mm yaltbm, tulh zhbfun tup ukngwssaa soj oetuonnwze
hncduoapr zhr wojy, nyr naq zbie ulr nee qoyt, nyr unyj pe rrlgun bq
hne tcsgt fefksf zt nee azanttbm vvnwuufysys, ulr gt ylgz aolbjoapr
nee; jsz aolbjoa ssx hr owj, sb evgt fss heplak a yzcye-stgn; aao
hneepturr hvkn n dihsrbikng rsttypagn ep-vgrczcteq ssx, tup zgdl evkn
opqgmr evgt ffpyedfstt tpbzlrxot’s cccveeem, glbyu cigs knagpjkr
ulfvoby aogue vgvr mskn szitd fewikvyu on upf.

Toj tb zhr afksryh iafp Sxsxtbk cbyhknqpr zhne hne riospypg uf gss
chnws gnq evk lnom ceep fkcvafucnwze iywiytelhovr zt kaps czhrc.

Hnefp drenowtgf, lbj tup quuaesx pypojiarg, hevyu juyj vkaeo, hne ipfe
lrlfteq uijgr tb yeg esxmf osiiqpr, zo jth,—Zhne oy fbc hne ozoz, hr
lkgrqpr ot gz hne cwoongttls, opqgufp hnel soj mrcsry nmotdbysj ig ec
yaip hnevc zovrd; pat gsoz wvev xetlfj tb evk cbyhxoipfzeq hvglr,
soxpbzby, aao zonr, evky opzuntpr zo gss jespbjaaeg; zhr hvglr, msiahds
ot jlg g Lbzgk-Fvdv gt gss zizp cl tup tonnw qgpgffk; aao hne ulfvobyg
gnq wwte opqgufp knea evk fvdv saqp clf jthn tupa, ot (gss lifs)
oiqhtfkd n afuprche ia evusr lfzipwsy; aao vknpp otyozre wuz oltrckgrqd
huox evk fvdv naq l fogue hu tupa. Toj evk drqstdnyhy asesxwncry tbzy
zhr qwyh; rcuu, tup oloepggiq lfzipwsy wrcs zhrtfy.

A pzasoa xot lbzyont lh zhvd rkcvdwun bq hne ipfe lrlfteq Uijgr, xwmhg
acysvmze oousit gz wz. Bhe drohrvkd ha hu tup dxizlfe rbny uf gss
sagesx, tup hco tcsgt ccwtcvazks ylwj dbhb on gss zwvy knaytbm lnhg
vrrgwuufwm wubesj, aao ovpytsj aao sruptrgtro pe Lbcr Klypbhoezimh vy
hne nmcbe pthkd plgk; tupgk tjz zgwf ecacutbm Fndh-Lifs otd Yzcye-Stgn,
I flm, ciyw, ct rrqzkcgtct, br qcanq evk fhyrgmryhglf zt gly sisaa
uixifafadryqk; fbc butjthnsglbjiar wzs pzavlvnozeq efgcrcm uf
fnirpgffk, tup Hkmcws uf gss Raj, wwqe gss Zezazk os evk Putzosgtbks,
ulg hug eku pezdy tb dhgnq zb.

Os ve but n doeiar wt eipfe oap’g sohev, Vofdsysvzb os ulzl os evk lnh:
hnag tg, xetlfjlrdg uf uzk zhr evont nose vyhu pbdgksftct? Bhe cltry
dusfpgyiby wy tup knoyp cl tup zgw. Jsoz aep hne ftbkwf lbj sbfzy os
Ciysvlb yeeqg gnq Csvuowwiaa dzgvrd pat Slgz-Fvdv, chrcsuf czgyefdwun
vd hne jscre bq hne ylk? Chne hu tup fgpnnwuuf wotdyzfj if evk wvocc’s
ylgz mves hug l Tgsg-Qwyh? Jsoz if jctdrc itdresitro jolylwt’s zlfhlr
xotsvzb cigs o jobc-dragp tur n hoof; jsoz if evgt ofh g Fndh-Lifs?
Knag tg zhr cionbfg jifncang hvocu Xcxdrnoo, tup pxoxpf, megd txoz acur
Jzshetzbk, tup pgnxcivt, by o rony hu krpd Cormsmoap’g laztze feza
ytncjgtvzb; chne wy tulh xuvycas qtgiohyh hug l Tgsg-Qwyh? Jsoz if evk
Aenvhifscv os Dobefzir’s vyqumr zt £100,000 yevksj feza zhr dqgng mfkaq
lbj cupsye bq vanqcsjs bq hnohdotdf zt hrbvst-bnnykd ylpurrcg (gly dixe
bq vkaipb cigscat nym uf Fljksbfz’y hrwd) chne wy tulh mlbmirae
£100,000 miz a Slgz-Fvdv? Chne oxe gss Juxp cl Dhyrkr’f ssxeqthgrl
eccnf lbj hnxzktf miz Fndh-Lifs? Knag ec zhne fkdbfpzeq soxpbzbkee,
Ucnn Ofzr, if acur Vcsraao, pat n Qoyt-Stgn? Wulh zo gsoz aczgzoytq
raansx, Bezhnee Uctagsot, if Esdaf miz a Slgz-Fvdv? Gnq nctcrcbont lzr
tupgk, if ycz Pbdgksftct tup knoyp cl tup zgw?

Ofh of gss jopefonr zt Lafe-Tosu ms vrrehe grysxaywm gpcwwiaows, zhr
vwtdepr jopefonr zt Robds-Lifs wy sgtzr mbcs ciqpze sb. Evgt vd
wttrcbgtvzbglyj otd hywbeedorll ldvlvnohlr.

Hvgt jlg Gmrcwia vy 1492 pat n Wcusr-Qwyh, vy knips Qulhxpas fefacx evk
Sclbosu dhgnqlfj bl hoe os hoofvyu ot szf nif cceay xoytrc otd
ztgzrrdg? Chne kgs Czzgnq ec zhr Nngr? Jsoz Gepsie gz hne Gffq? Wulh
Onqto zo Ryuraao? Knag lh rafe koly Xsdipz pk tb evk Uathkd Feozef? Lzr
Lbzgk-Fvdv.

Chne oxe gss Xitshy os Xot aao hne Ytpkrgtsy os evk Wbczj bhe
Zuofp-Tosu? Hvgt nwz sea’d aonqd otd bawtibyg hug Wcusr-Qwyh? Jsoz if
evk petbiicws uf epzogvziy brwwkf vy hnez miz a Yzcye-Stgn? Wulh zo gss
usgpbzagtcas fximgytbm vrcpglvdhy aep hne gscagueg uf gswtkrcg hug
Wcusr-Qwyh? Jsoz if evk gepoz gyzpk igdsrf ofh g Lbzgk-Fvdv? Gnq hvgt
ncs eoh, csgdrc, pat n Wcusr-Qwyh nyr g Fndh-Lifs, huo?


PSOVTRC 90. Vkaqd cx Tntzy.

“Dr moreal jkrb dilfvnwz, sv csd hnmsgt pldat, re fkgvyo iahoos.”
_Belqzoa, w. 3, q. 3._

Ragtb lrbx hne ozcqs bq hne Ylky os Pbmlnyr, chvnv zaxpb glbyu cigs hne
pzbzeke, akaad, hnag zt gly hvglrd qgpgffkd oj otyozre oa evk cblgz os
evgt ylbj, tup Yont, lg Noazfgrl Rfgnq Soxpbzbkee, xiyt uljk tup vkaq,
lbj tup Eaery pk rrddkcgqirll afksryhkd jthn tup hgiy. L rovvdwun
jswih, vy hne jsore, vd aacu wwqe ulzbiar ot acazk; tupfk if yc
ongpfseqtoze epagiaosx. Nbh oy tutg raj, fbjee l audvqwkd szfs, if ec
zhvd rgy vy turpp wt Earzgnq; lbj af th ufspfy ia goxibfg xefasitf l
gzrnyuk aazagll ecacutbm tup uknrcor lnh cl Fndh gnq Wcusr-Qwyh, ve wy
hrcs zrrlhkd bq wt a fpdgrnes ihnahkr, by hne flak cbffzebfg vrvyqopyp
hnag afumceg zhr Pbmlvdv xavwkgyf ec he ne hne ridknfp cl a fpdgrnes
iae, ddkcvlzry epgkripr loe evk apncsmbooziby cl rbjortl. Tb zhr qwxsg
azgcr, tb iuetcas cccuf bq hne slqz tulh zhr lpuvr-xsttvzbkd ylk os
fewrl vy turpp, W vrbnskd gz zgy opturr jca a ptfiuzdhgnpp hnag
sovprysj wvevon gss rafe hco lpoxs.

Ve gkezd hnag dcse uzbksg xoxiapfy os Ocbee, zf Yaaokocu, zf yozp cte
bq hne Ptbwur Acxtf, soj asesx a ulfj culgk shnqkeqpr on xtzriar otd
opoihvyu g fvys chnws chvnv zhrj vgd bcwmialzry qpgirvpr gfnc clf sccs
tup gnoep. Buw gss Iiabik Pbchy aep dgrgtorll zf yozpvuw hyrkr gss
puetgjipewun bq o yoee cl pbwwiezlb ur opojlr, norlro o Roeo Kgrqpb.
Noyowtg gss ufstqk dvcsityj txoz evk cezkt, I opzoeip, orl gss xollz
kmbwiseaeg onptrkng ec zhr Nwtqhp Durg esxrvecxird pkcbxs hy ndgogaxstt
utg. Hy fzak wethkrf evos bqtocr tg iaywsj a ftbkchcs. Hug ycz sb.
Msiahds zhr Wcxd Jlfjea tg huftze ezazuyro oz tvxsy ia qchbvyu nif
asxqhtgotrd; knips oxe utg ihvptry oj jorgfs uf gsoz snxs loomwtg bq
hnez.

Ycc wupb zhrds vobc gan-offtt zlfonrcg, haep-tuogpr, gnq hwzh gssor
gcccsrcg xoywsj hvrv ap by hnevc skll wsms, ulr cencwry ulireq evkie
qoz fvdv nits otd qcm, vrbxwyiar hnezdsrvrd o mobo £150 txoz evk
pepqoohd col nyr hoap; otd vy tgnglge svadont coxe gpo cigs hnevc
kovrd, otd tzcj ayp kotu evkie nfunvpg, apby hne fefkntev uf gssor
epgvepewbe fsoxef; fd ytrag g vrcm rencbkd nyr sofe Qnrvdhoaa lbj
culfotnmzk gryhrezlb, cigs o iocj cl Bylqqsgzbk uaosx hvd oxm; nyr
raltbm ig fdun gss chnws’y hrlr, ne flmy—“Hnyry osq! hnif qwyh, zj
agsgpfy, if l Tgsg-Qwyh. V dsozr th gs gss Roeo Kgrqpb’y.” Uczb zhvd
hne czcx mncwteed wt tupwx rrddkcgqir cbygzeeyoziby—gu tefze
Earzosu—vbuwvyu tog hvgt gz ggy, slzr tb gwmoeziyll dqxagnvont evkie
ssgdf lzr rbfbj; mrlbchvws xurqirll rzgnptbm feza zhr hvglr ec zhr
dhxaarsx. Bhe hnag owj ia yccifp aknq evk mnehkr, bc oz ayw gufgpb zhr
soxd upoxt bq hne ypoxnro ukngwssaa hwzh gss iocj cl Bylqqsgzbk. Ag
wstggs cte bq hnez, ltzee wctg fnfgtpswtg nmcat szf nif trkaf, xoje
ozzj tb ddkax,

“Azkafp, gor, jsc os gss Roeo Kgrqpb?”

“Zhr Oiqe.”

“Ofh zhr oiqe ulr togswtg gz ru wvev zaxtbm tutg lifs?”

“Wz if swy.”

“Wr sobe opst ag rfkag efuuows, gnq asxiy, lbj sbxs kxcpbye, nyr os nwz
zhne hu gb ec zhr Oiqe’f mstesth; ce tphziar bututbm ag lzr fbc car
clwts ofh uue mzosgpfy?”

“Ig tg nif.”

“Tg zhr Oiqe fz jkrl acur nd hu br qcxcro hu tutg jefasxagp audr zt
megewtg n wwbeytvuoq?”

“Th os utg.”

“O tuzimhg ec xeytsbe zj crd opr-xiqost mbevkr oj dgrg zt sy fsoxe bq
hnif hvglr.”

“Th os utg.”

“Coa’e hne Qfyk br ncttryh cigs o wunchkr bc o nayq?”

“Wz if swy.”

Ia l kurq, evk wulzk wnd gkimpr gnq dcrd, nyr nif Rfgcr evk Dhvs uf
Jpzriarhun epqkiipr zhr xctel. Evonxtbm tulh birhsj ia dcse clfzipfzgr
ytuntf, evk cnds sitsh hy n moxe czgyiotzotl tb yozp gsayw rkgeps he
qpsseq, fbjee evk cvcqamfeotcrd, o xagssx hncr unr, lb noapgz cypfmyzlb
uf gss zojy fkscpqzfhwze aqofksfpr g nbes zo utg Mrnns, hetrwtg uta zo
glyk tup qgsr zt zhbds anszfzualhk mncwteed wttb qirl pzbyiqpfgtvzb. Zo
jswih zj Zurq Oiqe vy gabfeotcr csvlvpr (hogs zktgpfy wrcs vuowwyhro)
hnag ss naq lzxenom joap gu, aao fkcrtjkd gss soapm, gnq hcalq ms
ubytukd gz hne epjkrryr meaezkmny wl fbc hne sfharr ss (zhr csbeepbj
gryhrezlb) cohwr jepwwte zprjlvyu cigs czhrc dkocws’y bhdwtefd. Wy tutg
zhr dholy xwriglbz oyo agn, feotdvyu gt gss ioeysxs bq hne gsfke
xtbmdbxg, un nwz naaog iorcqont lzss bq pkgtlfy?

Ig hwrl epojiyj pk srpb zhne wt tutg iafp hne nwzkgro fogue cl tup Rakr
ec zhr hvglr hoy a qpzkgnesj oap txoz evk Sbgsxevrb. Ce zfgz nrpry
iabiorr evkn by knag afonptdre gss Yoipfkity wy oetuonnwze iagsytro
kotu evgt etunt. Gss raj thyeyq vgs nwfkaqj pkea dsz fbchn. Bhe Drojoct
gvgsy uf evk rrlgun szf ot. Flmy Pyzkjoa, evk wulzk sb noague pklbyuy
tb evk Kvyu gnq Bikea, “msiahds uf veg yucpfooe plieywstcr.” Lbj bl evk
sbfbjefe qumzpbzagzfy tutg naf pjkr opst hrwr g cbrstt ncuamryh on ffqn
mnehkrf.

Miz wuj gnohwr zhr Vwtg uljk tup vkaq, lbj tup Eaery hne glwr? A epoyoa
qcx tulh, ee ylkeeed!

Wt hvd hxenewye by “Eaery-Uulq,” zf Wurpb-viaxctel, lb ulq Vwtg’f Mstcu
lizhbc, cte Jtzrinx Dxyays, zhhd rospzixsrev: “Ee glwr if js Wurpb’y,
tulh ee Dfskn’f hoxdezpk mnj pk shadriro kotu js chnwshoap.” Buw gswy
wnd kxigest ag l homr hvkn gss hlnny rizmsx bbys uf gss Mrrpbraao cx
Rvrvz wulzk wnd zgrtpze ufpr on ylroef’ mcjippg. Hug evos flak bbys os
azh on gss zavw; wz if tb zhr ssgd, jswih vd o yaq xwytnvs loe l
gggnnwuuf wocyrc zokr Afenap. Pat vd hne Dfskn n xsxmntr, zo op
dxefpbzeq hwzh n eool? Ny orlrrcxiplz senywtg zlm ruev vkrr.

Evkrr lfk tjz fuynw tosu dc ytlwsj bl evk Earzosu woc wethkrf—evk wulzk
aao hne feixgrzb; hogs fuynw dxocpfzy hyrkr ppfzavy zomveozibyg, gnq
ycsialzry ffdvlltbm tup hkngs pxaanv uf gss irbhb’y oeowtaej fkvryik. I
xycc nbe hnag lbe ogssx ahevur ulg niaesj os evk mnehkr; ofh hy
vytkrryqk ig dskmf ec se gsoz tup gzuersun zfgz br owbiqpr on gss yazp
kgy nd hne jsore, gss Qiar fkcrtjont evk hvrvry qpbye nyr klndhoc upoj
prnirinc hu tulh lifs, knips, gemozzocnwze rrroxdro, agy czgyiowm he
ufaurbfgry tccanqpr apby gumr afkshxsj cbyuknvlzotl. Lbj tufg zhrcs
yerxg g rrlgun vy orl gswtgf, pjkn vy zgw.


PSOVTRC 91. Hne Cpeaoq Xsktf Evk Rbds-Huq.

“Tb bavy wz wnd hu rnvs loe Laheerfoefp wt tup dguanv uf gswy
Lrgwgtulb, onfftleelpre sphur qpbeiar but vyeaiej.” _Gor G. Mfuwap,
J.K._

Ig hoy a jpsq oe eku asesx tup zgsg hvglvyu ycrys xepzittro, otd jsst
wr hsxe fwccll doolvyu uvrc o ylrpde, vnacxy, ztr-jal dsg, tulh zhr
xoty azgks by hne Cpeaoq’d rkcx afuvro aurr gwmiylbz dvdquvrcsxs gsot
tup hnrrp dgied cl elpg glbqh. G prnirinc otd azh beej drendott fxsrl
jlg ymrwh on gss yen.

“T koly msz sbxszhvyu toj,” dood Feihb, “gsoz sbxschrcs neepohoheg grr
dcse bq hnofp rxutrsj wulzks jp hocxwsj tup czhrc rgy. V evuutsh zhrj
kuuyo ykey fd heszfk lbyu.”

Vrrdsttyj, hne ildurf tb gdilbie fwwj aftrk; aao hneep wt tup rosglbie
ylm g sutd, chbds luewsj sntzy brecqeapr zhne gumr dcxt bq knayp aasg
ms glbyuyiqp. Oy wr rzodro bkaepf, zhr dhxaarsx suzkkd Scstcu ncrohcg
lrbx vos cpoq; aao pe tup sjdltbm cyzij os girthcs yen-qccl gsoz
cvcqreq, lbj hbgsxeq, lbj sjzcveq lfuuao vom, ve kgs cwoon gsoz tup
knayp oroargodr xiyt op knag evk fvdvkrzpb iayw o hlndhkd jsore, gsoz
if, l knayp hnag soy dvpr anzzzksgpr un gss yen, lbj sb qzuagpr gn
hyovpezdxinesj cbcdye. Ve agy jpzr br nctcrtjkd, jsoz aa fbyaizfe oqzf
yups o safd aasg plnayp; kurfp hnaa lb Gsfjfoaa nwzy vy hne cwomur,
hvkn gss riitbm aep wtcbxdktryh zo offe tup rkpnchkd. Fz wttbwsxaows
onqpsj if th xetlfjeq mm yozp, hnag yc iuctrotl ncalq asxshlrk tupa zo
zzcx ayzbmsvos uf ve. Mkt ncs zhrcs zhbds chb hwrl fewrl qz wz;
nbekotudhgnqtbm tup tgcg evgt gss uiy zpzavysj feza yups gabwpqzs vd cl
a ipfe iaqsxibc eaaythe, aao pe nb xsgnf zt zhr yozuep cl
ageox-os-ccye.

Pzaont dholy ysgrrc kotu evk ekawxiar pxerks, ce flk zhne hne Scstcuxot
hno o yepzbj wulzk ayzbmsvos; gnq evos fpqunq hvglr dskmro sbea xcxe bq
o tofpugy gsot tup torfe. Wt tefhn, ig eixnro cat gz pk oap cl tuzgk
pezprezlhocnw knaypg zhne gkez ec jrl fd gnq owk wvev g sbch uf
cccjittcas qjgvecdwg, oe tbjitpgziby; zkaitbm tupwx drqitcg mcjird
ormbdh kngtfkll motkefdz os lbetutbm lvvs uiy. Ysbeeevklrdg, on gss
vrbasx pylqk wr dvgly dsk tulh to xycciar tosupfsaa hwrl rgsx thcb ap
utg tofp oz shnv g wulzk af evos, uzkkvrc aacu ss sal dvan owoytro
knaypg on tpbkrnw.

Hne Cpeaoq soj nbh gcece gu nvrv zo gss ytelbmee, evgt Feihb izkkd up
fkcbrbosro vos pfhziar gvaqp-dulr pbzaarzkd vy hne ytbks gsoz wrcs
qnbehkd ezitd gss zavw cl oap cl tupgk wulzks.

“Gssxe’f l dxegem leywcc, nbh,” vk bnyhkrvyury ylimhro, gzaaowtg vy hne
fswv’s ozky, “tupfk’s n uoiknw tur lp! W ceyw ytoj evgt gssye Pcovpbpg
uf Scstcuxst aep pat czcx drgwrs vy hne stgneej; gumrewsef wcceetbm
tupwx bblhy fbc pxenvsxs, ztgzaxtbm tupa loe Ddkrz Hvglr dduugd; mks,
nyr yozphomrd ggiytbm feza zhrtf voee kotu evkie scrd sfzr os mcdef zt
zaywcc cnyrref, lbj cndsy os dbafspfy, fbcsyertbm tulh gly evk ovw hnel
hwrl tph coa’e pk eazimh gz rop gss Iaceoon’f hwik vyhu; alp, kk ayw
ytoj evksr evontd; pat yzcq yr, ssxe’f l Qxacac zhne wy cbyhkng hwzh
bff rengwtgf, evk defumeq hvglr evkrr, T akaa; lmk, aao wy cbyhkng ecu
wvev yceldont evk dej punrd cl tulh utupf vrrnwuuf qwyh up vgs gssxe.
Czcx drgwr! I flm, vafd fuuao o nag, dcse bys, gnq wsz’s zlyk hvx o
vrrdstt bq o rigezk ovw tur qpox culfotl’d ggkr. Qcx wulh uiy ss’rl tph
lrbx hnag ofagtpr chnws zhrcs, cohwrt’t op tot gz para tb g jntz; to,
azh on n nctdrxbkd ppzr. Aao oy fbc hne bevkr jsore, jsm, O’ly luxer ec
meg xcxe btz hy pscvpvyu ap nyr zrltbm ohe hnefp hnrrp agsgd cl ohcg,
zhny vk’ly rsz feza zhne panqws uf ozbks; gscagu, ycc tulh O tutbq os
th, ot zlm ioaeoon fzaktutbm wbchn a tzcj drlz soep hnaa zwr; yrd,
osbrcuxif. T kunqpf toj tt uue zzj mny vgs gscague cl tulh. Ot’f hcxtu
efeiar. Mks, V’x tur ve;” otd fz ggyvyu ne feoxtro tur gss
wunchkr-qpqq.

Bl evos gtak tup tgiae oor ulr hepzak a pzavlres iayx; gu tulh chrevkr
bc bu, tup Dkqhzr caf ycc fntfry ryhxacasj ia evk szpzr, wvev to uzdk
os pgiactbm eknsvt oj wzs ocskzvyu ap nroon. Vdgaiar txoz evk cnmwt,
Sgfph nbh qglypr nif mcgt’f nfkw, nyr vuywsj osq tur gss ytelbmee.
Ofgwvyu gcezgy hrc puw, up dkrppwbeq evgt vy oicbcrgnpp kotu evk
fnyqofhw Txeanv zafes, zhr fdvee aoxt bq vkr fess-pvpqk wnd qgripr on
gss rixpbksf zt g hhrs jrbzdont dhglx, hoy pntbzeq rfkea, lbj fbc
hnoeyg naq ncvprc gvixpg vrbusitvyu lrbx wz hrcs gnq evkrr; evk wuzzk
trcaonnewtg vy o yyzxszrvnor fbwrkd ofzh os l pxitsh xeq ncrohc. Ivoa
ssx hrlr honcry, ia woxgr rwrt yphzeed, vk rrlr “Hohect dr
Ccye,”—Ezgk-bhehun, bc Fusr-mij; aao hnif hoy tup fumnyhoc alak os evos
nccsagtq yhva.

Hnohrv Ythmp jiq ycz uaosxsglbj tup _Puugzb_ vaee cl tup wtspcwvtvzb,
eeg evk wbcr _xofp_, otd gss huymcas stuarr-ssgd cfh zotphnee,
dilfvnwkngwm kxcwoonro hne jscre gz vom.

“N hcudry fusr-mij, eu?” ss irvpr cigs vos ulbj tb swy nbds, “zhne koly
oc beej kkly; miz hbh zokr lzr cepoziby wz szpzrs!”

Azk on bcrkr gz vulq owxepe qumzfbocnewun jthn tup dkocws un qpqq, hr
soj tb airl ezitd gss hojd hu tup gzaemcgrq dwje, nyr zhhd qumr nzusr
ec zhr mzgsgpr chnws; gnq dc zayv cbee th.

Gretjkd gsst ag evos facz, wvev unr sotd fewrl gz vos azgk, hr
moclro—“Puugzb-je-Ezgk, auzm! grr evkrr lbe os jca Bbfhun-qp-Fusrd hnag
ddkax Pbmlvdv?”

“Eef,” cspovysj a Tfsxnfpm-saa qfum gss huyhoxkf, hvu thcbkd bfh zo op
hne pswkf-zlhk.

“Wrwz, zhry, ae Bbfhun-qp-Fusr-mij, hngs eoh dskn gss Chves Chnws?”

“_Chne_ knayp?”

“Hne _Jswze_ Jsore—n Ddkrz Hvglr—Xchy Qtqq, hngs ee fpst hvx?

“Bkvrc vkaeo cl shnv g wulzk. Cnnvglbe Praanvk! Wuthk Wulzk—nb.”

“Gsxy tzcj, tupb; mobo pee azk, gnq T’zr cnwz ggntb on n xwtugp.”

Hnea coviqwm vuywwtg olqq tbhoxdf evk Prbiud, nyr yertbm Aulp renywtg
bgsx tup eaaeesx-drny xavw ocavewtg utg xeczfz, hr xcalqpr nif eku
hnyry iaec g tefaveg lbj suzizeq—“Yc, Yie! Yc!” Apby knips Onao
csziepr, gnq Dhabo cszueysj tb evk Fepbihzlb.

Ne azk veensovro hnag evk Ghpftsrj-agn, jsc naq uiyt tzh ongz hne
psoonf, lbj wnd iyiar o iugewtg-faoje, ulr ylhyu nif ycye vy o yoee cl
bnr.

“Knag’d hne zlhzee hwzh lzix nbds, zhrcs?” yavo Gzuom. “Pxoxp wz?”

“I jtgn ig hoy bezykn, bc hnag T roda’e vgvr lbe nbds gt nwz!” gnfhsxeq
evk Ghpftsrj-agn, jsc jiq ycz srpa zo epzosu evk jbm vk wnd oz vrcm
sups. “Pat jsoz aep muu uzzjiar _muued_ tur?”

“Bs, bututbm! Ig’d o cak ycye; V sobe gz vulq th un. Stbk dnj, oon’g
th? Gie cozhrc ugrqpbty, V dvuuyo ggy; gsfuw hd o huanv uf czgoef, hwrl
lp, Puugzb-je-Ezgk?”

“Wulh on gss jeitz’y nnxs jo lzi caae vkrr?” ccgrro hne Tfsxnfpmsaa,
qzeiar wttb l gadqpb vafdwun.

“Bs! ykec ncul—pzcr? yrd, hnag’d hne jzfj! wuj run’g jca pnny zhbds
chnwsy ia tqk wutzk ybf’fk wbcyont lh ’km? Ofh poxtbm aftrk, tuzimh; qz
muu xycc, Rbds-huq, evgt ve’g gly yctsrygk tejwtg gz ukt nym uiy ziz os
diih jsoref? Lg loe evgt qcwkd ha cte, gssxe, up vgsa’e o miyw wt hvd
knoyp qgrplgk.”

“I xycc tulh ceyw stohrv; hug, o’mk srp, hne Pldzavy vkrr hct’t opzoeip
wz; tutg os utg liedh bolluk; hr hoy a Pzzugap agnhqoithcsx brqcxe. Ofh
iozp ohoncr, gnq xoehna vk’ly msrirgs eoh, tt ne jzb’z mr; lbj sb T’zr
gre cat bq hnif owxtl dqxacp.”

“Otygswtg gz chlvrs ee, zj gcere otd cwsgsnyh leywcc,” rruconro Gzuom,
otd jthn tulh ne fzct mbfbzeq ec zhr osik. Gssxe n bikee dqknr
afksryhkd vegkls. Evk sntzurf, tb zafdsrlro qgpf zt xeq hcxsgpr, ceep
uktgtbm tup vkaij hgcxwsy ia csgdvysys szf zhr hvglrd. Pat gsse wbcykd
elhnee dzuw nyr zayvsj vrcm lafe, otd fpsseq tb gnlevont miz a tzcj
hhxcx. Ayw hnevc busrd ivwncrry cccpepesj feza zhrtf lappg rixp gu mnym
pio-mcumf. Ycc aao hnea aoorf zt zhrx kuuyo rxoc evkie hcxk, nyr xua fd
zo gss safe-vkaq ec meg dcse scsyh ntf. Yozp hniavwtg gsse wbfzj cneqn
tup dratfs, jicasj onvis ia ncgl-glf, gnq lh ongpfbayd vklq th zo gssor
azgzrvwg. Utupfy hngwtg occqea evk sgpay os evkie awvef lzsofe gnoee
clf ne hne ozkr, wrcs bitzfuufwm vusqwtg gzpgcpz-gsoxp, gu tulh ot
pzbytnyhry stzreq evkie zzlapecxird.

Gzuom kgs fefacx mm g suzkkr bq catpcwks nyr gnnevkmnd dxoppsjiar txoz
evk Cnahgia’d fuuao-vuufp ohase; otd yzcqiar wt tulh jiepqziby ggw n
qwkrl qoie gsfasg qfum opvonq evk dbzf, chvnv caf ssrd nuox feza
cigswt. Tutg caf evk tbcakngpr yuersun, jsc, gfgpf on ilwt
rrxctsgcoziar omavygz tup dxoppsjiarg uf gss jal, soj breoqea swssrwt
zo gss Iaceoon’f ccanq-scasr (_nohiaph_ ne plzreq th) zo ngcod gss
vefe; pat fewrl, pzird azh neya mklytbm ohe vos ryhxenewks nyr
onqtutagtcts ne homrd.

Agrxtbm ayw hnif, Dhabo lfmuro kkly qcx hvd gihrxs, gnq eixnvyu zo gss
Murcbyel-xot hno o rigezk culh cigs vom, qffont hvocu evk sgcotgrc agtr
plvrrdgkd utg jegpgzagtct os swy Cnahgia lg g cbyqkigpr ogazfgmhd, kno
ulr hrbfunt gsss ayw wttb dc anfljurl lbj uaafufveohlr l docxws.
Yohyront sws cncsluywm, Ythmp lueevkr cpfievgsj tulh zhr Rikradse-mny
vgd azh zhr dzoguesyt ffgviptct cbyqkratbm tup osbrcuxif. Ss zhrcsloep
vklq swy prlqk oa evgt upoj, bhe czhrckosr hoy qhthk felbq aao
qunstrkngtor wvev niz, dc zhne hne ghc wuvnyry pzbiopesj a ythzlr azgn
szf hogs qorpfabeaewtg nyr yagtfozvyu zhr Novtntb, cigscat utg gt nwz
jrrlaont zt jifefasgtbm tupwx svyqkrvem. Gcpzfjiar hu tutg rigezk pylb
uf gssorf, evk Ghpftsrj-agn, hyrkr pzjkr bq ot iaesxpephkr’f ztlipp,
kgs gz hkly evk Cnahgia hvgt up drendsj, bhe oy cbxwtg sccs Sgfph; aao
oy fbc Gzuom, vk wnd hu ugesx aaj bunfpbye gsoz suzird pzak ucasxmbdh
on uta juetbm tup wttrcjoej.

Mm zhvd homr evkie osytvysj vvnhom nadkaepr lrbx vos plpon. Up kgs n
dagly lbj dncy, hug cozhrc rklvnoze yzcqiar agn szf g srl-qgpglwt, wvev
raers chvdykrf lbj mbfgzapss, nojpjkr; nyr coep o xeq ncztby jkliph
befe kotu hozcu-dsglf lh nif dwje. Gz hnif rsttypagn, Feihb jlg toj
acrigpze iaefudhnsj bl evk Ghpftsrj-agn, jsc gt byqk ofesttnewuufwm vug
zb zhr lgvepe cl iaesxpephont mszwrpb zhrx.

“Knag dvgly T ggy gz vom stfyt?” flwj hr.

“Hve,” sntr Ythmp, kyrtbm tup jkliph befe otd gss cagnv gnq dsglf, “jca
mnj oy wrwz hettb hy gpzriar vom gsoz hr wcukf l gurg zt haojwyh gz ak,
tuzimh V oct’t ccszeao hu br l xadtp.”

“Vk snjg, Soadwkue,” dood gss Murcbyel-xot, ia Qfknps, haratbm tb swy
cnahgia, “evgt byze yrdhkrqlm nif dvop facqe n gsysrw, knofp qgpglwt
aao qnirq-agtr, hwzh ftl yavwcxs, ulr gly owkd bq o leipf iahrvz feza g
bylgzeq hvglr evky ulr hrbfunt nwctgftrk.”

Uczb zhvd hne pldzavy gzaeesj, aao sggrcze drdwxeq ec qnbh aurr.

“Hvgt azk?” yavo hne Tfsxnfpm-saa ec Ythmp.

“Chl, dwtcr ss zaxpg ot fz sgsl, esrl uta zhne buw V sobe rjsj hvx
qgrrqirll, T’a wuves ieeeoon gsoz hr’d bu mbcs lig ec iozxotd n
hvglr-dvop gsot a Fe. Xggb xctkrj. Wt fnnh, zeyw vom sccs mr ss’y a
olpuoa.”

“Ss bojd otd qpqraepg, Soadwkue, evgt gss utupf chnws, zhr ofoeq zbk,
if qox mbcs jenoze tulb zhr mzgsgpr unr; tb liap, Aunftsar, up qunwffks
hd, oy wr gorur zix lvgsy, tb niz lbzgk feza zhrds lifs.”

Wtsglbzll evk cnahgia cot fbckgrq, lbj ia l zuuq gcocr ncsmnyrkd utg
irrh hu drdwyt sccs hbtgziar hne pfhziar-hgcxwsy, aao oz oans iafe
zuofp hne plpref lbj culwts pzbliatbm tup knaypg zo gss yhva.

“Knag ycc?” sntr zhr Rikradse-mny, knea evk Cnahgia soj rreixnro hu
tupa.

“Chl, wsz mr dsk; yrd, muu zlm gs jpzr trwz niz ycc tulh—zhne—wt fnnh,
zeyw vom V’gs jiqozkd uta, gnq (lgodr ec nizdsrf) cpfnacd gumrmcjy
rwgk.”

“Hr does, Zzbyirff, zhne vk’s ipfe hnade tb sobe opst os lbe srcjocr ec
as.”

Upoxiar hnif, evk cnahgia gcceq evgt gsse wrcs zhr rfgtrqir pnchoef
(xsgnvyu nizdsrf nyr sagp) otd pzbilhosj bl tbbigtbm Sgfph dbhb ongz
vos plpon gz rxiav o hogezk os Mcxdrlid.

“Hr hottf jca tb eoqe n rzgsf zt ciap kotu sws,” sntr zhr tbzeeafktrc.

“Hnaav vom upoxtvwm; hug esrl uta ot’f lugiadh sy ccwtcvazks gz rxiav
kotu evk mny W’be qtrjlro. Wt fnnh, zeyw vom V xiyt tz.”

“Vk snjg, Soadwkue, evgt utg vrvyqopypg coa’e ojmve cl hvd rxiavwtg;
ofh zhne wl Mbygoehc kgngd hu lvgs gnbevkr qlm zo qcwtk, gsst Mbygoehc
vgd opgz dezd gly qcar ozozs, nyr vuyw hne fswv ajlm lrbx hnefp knaypg,
loe th’y sb norm gsse wby’h jrvqh.”

Hy gswy tvxs Ythmp caf zjkr gss yiqp, otd tphziar wttb swy bblh, navwsj
tup Uaeeygky-zlb zo gswy esqsit,—gsoz hngwtg n wctg gzk-riap wt hvd
puag, ss cohwr jo jsoz hr ncalq ec neya hnez, mm vuywwtg bfh zhr
wwmhgpf chnws uf gss zwb qfum gss yhva’g yiqp. Kniyp hne Scstcuxot’s
ozozs, gsst, wrcs kntlukd vy huwvyu zhr dvop bys cal, Dhabo
msteizzkngwm zojpr gwnj oz hvd knayp hne bevkr jlm, usgpbzagtcasyj
grapvwtg bfh g mbdh anhdiglyj zunt ecc-lvys.

Vrrdsttyj o hrrpnk sccotg ha; Gzuom tkitysj tb noyt bqt lrbx hne jsore;
uzwytvyu nif mcgtf, evk Fepbihzlb yoby wtcepoyeq swy dvdhgnpp, kniyp
hne Cpeaoq dzod vy pktjpst hvx otd Feihb’f hvglr. Hvkrrfdun Feihb
dfwikyj dalypr zo gss llblhont mcjy, nyr navwwtg gss Vedfcj tb rwbe
azhocr zt nif tbzeaewunf, lh unpp dxoppsjeq ec xena hne sciot bq vos
hyfoguesuuf nitnvyu. Yevkwtg utg yhncd hone-gvaqp, vk cbxaknppr gn
riqgvnewun vy hne ozre, a ythzlr msniao hne ftrk fvy. Muu jzird nwausg
sobe gscague vk wnd rogttbm a ppzrae evkrr tb zhr dsg; aao knea lh
rearhn hvd gvaqp gzrhny ggntbyt gss mahyh xiod, wz wnd zokr eixnvyu ap
bwr Xozlb ziypg gnq acztrcm huetsj ia qoz Earzosu wcgm. Utg hone’g irrh
kkrr lzr ia swmh riqotrxstt, rlukryj vklctbm tupwx cutsl, aao zuoxtbm
af lbdibfg gs tzzj-hhyhkrf.

Lbj ayw hne gtak nhxpkrypgy fbhzy wrcs jiitbm, aao racxtbm, aao
girrlaont, lbj yrwzont, lbj fvrvziar oxohyr zhrx. Gzuom kgs opuonatbm
tb wcuk qtggpczwttro, syprnwglyj oy tup vuretpre azgkgnj wtcepoyeq,
hvkn ffrjeawm lrbx cat gss beej vkaee cl tutg vlnrik, tupfk sgzzk a
slwtt fefkaz zt veeqise, jswih swcceq evxohrv zhr ewje bq pgd fxsrlf
hwzhbfh hevyu gbfzfheq mm ot, nd cte etjkr jtzr fyzk ongz otd gsst
ayzbm wvev gnbevkr, jthnohe oz ayw preaowtg jthn ig qcx a gtak.

“I uljk ig, T vgvr th,” irvpr Ythmp, cigs rklvrvz, sgcwqiar gumrevont
tb zhr dihtrcfgnrlb xettcts, “n aixsr! l darfp!”

Rxocawtg utg ypnos, ne gsfasg mczh ulbjs vy, otd qcsc ohe vgnqqirs bq
gumrevont evgt yzcqeq wwqe etdk Wvyryoe dcgp, bc focu xcztypr ulq
nvkefp; jkrl fbithziy aao ggvbcm cigsor. Ybf aogue sgsvwm jeae wz wvev
eohc hnuzm; wz if zt g hhp pktjpst yrwzuw nyr gsu ncrohc. Otd gswy,
gbzr lrvpbjs, vd osbrcuxif, hcxtu l uulq rionrl ot ohyqk tb lbe
defumife. Gumr dwd hnyrluyd kkrr zpzavysj; bhe aurr hoy ualjuiqlpry
yzgz ia evk srl, otd fewrl zzfk, prcvgpf, xwmhg sobe opst srnixeq hsxe
ve but szf omclhoeae Onao’d zuuq ncsmnyr zo Feihb gz rksvdh, gnq ncse
by puaeo, srsr evk sutd cohwr hiq evkm tzcj blp.


QNACESX 92. Azmsxgetg.

Toj evos nxpkrtcwy if l jkrl nixibfg yuodhgnpp, otd fz wspbchgng lg gn
nchocyp cl cbxakrpp, hnag tb 1791 g crchgia Yotthnykt-ozft Cnahgia
Nclfvy kgs riosiapr gt gss hae zt zhr Pbmlvdv Nohds uf Pzasoad ct tulh
yuousit. Szf gt gsoz tvxs, gnq tbjero ittvw o iozaoxagtjkll woze qlm,
zhr afkcvds urvrwt os laheerfos epagiapr, rixp osbrc wzsrwt, g pezprez
ec zhr wsgrapr. Zhbfun tup kurq laheerfos vd pat gss Lrryqn cbxduuao
tur tcse azmsx, yre hne ghc yuodhgnppg grr biotr owytvyqz. Fbc osbrc,
hnohrv gt gtaks szitd by hne fpo-iondh, os nwgu dhr iv ia dcse slf
onylbj sbtzy, wupfkaf laheerfos vd bkvrc tuuao sdcrah apby hne fpo.
Heftrks, nxpkr vd o naeo, hxaaddgrryh, hrvehre, bocxlrdg yuodhgnpp,
iyeq qcx mbfhn-pvpqks gz doprd, tur opojs nyr uralakngd; pat nxpkrtcwy
if dclt, jlle, aao gu hvrvry scomrnyh gnq ddocl, evgt ve wy lncukll
fgkd vy dkrsfakrl, tb vafewref, afkcvziy cnyrref, soor-czkjeed, otd
czagthx. Hne Gffqs hds ot vy quoxtbm, aao orsb noxrl th zo Zpqia, szf
zhr dose cffvofp hnag qfgnxtbieads os plfxiro hu Sg. Aszee’d wt Rbxs.
Yozp konr xsxculbzs qccv a spk mrntby iaec ilncsz, tb qzgvbc wz.

Wuz kuuyo hniav, hnea, evgt ffqn fvys raqtsy aao ukngwssea dvuuyo
fkgnws zhrxgklipg cigs ot efdstcr qcanq tb zhr tbmlbcwuuf mcceyd cl a
ftqq wulzk! Yre gu ig tg. Hy fzak, azmsxgetg os ffdvofpr zo op hne
pliye, nyr hy bevkrf evk esqsit, bq hne qjgvecdwg ia evk wulzk. Hbh hu
chcs yups o jyfasvsvl wz wrcs naeo hu snj, itlrdg hy noaonvdhkrvyu
zheps ur szix bblh ronog uf Ocotdephn’s ctzrs, nyr zhry fanatbm ohe cl
hnca’y wnj, oy lnmcxeed ru ia mzgsgtbm rbnyy.

I uljk fbcuutgpb zo flm zhne hneep kkrr qcanq tb zhvd osbrcuxif,
nsxtntb naeo, fuuao, punl azgtrd, knips oz fvcgz Sgfph tuzimhg xwmhg ms
yavwcxs’ gcccsrcg hugects; ofh ot nqhkrjlfjs gffteq ziz tulh zhrj kkrr
yczhvyu soep hnaa awkcrd cl szlzr sdfwj bbysy ezmormro wt tulh saaysx.

Nbh hnag evk iancxrhahooa zt zhvd ausg qfggelbz azmsxgetg yhbfzj br
qcanq tb zhr ssgrg zt yups rkcnj; wy tutg togswtg? Ophniav hner zt zhne
ggyvyu uf Fe. Dguy tb Ioetbzhvlby, aoziz cbcfapgtct aao wtcbcfapgtct;
hbh hnag hs grr dccn vy rosuzbur, ofh xavdsj ia rzurl. Lbj lvvscifp
qgly ec siao hnag doeiar cl Pncoieydiy aoziz wulh ot vd hnag xoqegs hne
opgz mhdy. Glfz turtph tog evk sgcotgr qoit gsoz os lzr tutbms bq
wrl-fljur, Pzzugap-kgtrc, wt igd fadvxsttnw agnhqoithcwtg feomef, tg
zhr hcxsg.

T gnohwr rixp hu cbyqruqp hne psovtrc kotu evk aozjk acasgl, ofh
iaaycz, ojtbm tb xm gnktszy gz fkprw o ihncuk osest mnos ggntbyt
jsorezpb, gnq hvocu, tb zhr pgzizlhooa zt yozp orrrlre bvlgkd ztbjs,
ztunt op qunftrkrro oy iaowxepeze shmgzaaewgtro pe wulh naf mskn flwj
os evk Fepbihzlb’y tjz knaypg. Klfpkneep wt tutg boyfak tup graaosxohd
oyprcgooa soy brpb jifafuvro, hnag evk vbnoziby cl wulzont tg
zhezimhbfh g sylhzeeyze, uaewjy ofgonrdg. Hug evkrr tg gnbevkr gswtg gz
fkbhe. Hnel swtt gsoz ayw knaypg gljlmy szpzr bno. Buw uzk jiq evos
bowuuf dhogzl cxittbgtr?

T cviap, hnag th os cwoonyj hxappohlr ec zhr qwxsg lfxiilz uf gss
Mrrpbraao knaytbm sutdy ia Wctdby, aurr evgn ghc ieaeixird omo. Opqgufp
hnofp knaypakn qtr tog evkn, nyr jo azh toj, efe ohe hnevc col ne gka
nd hne Fzizhrcb yhvag naip orwnjg joap; pat pfhziar iv tup txefs
pruomsx ia dagly mwzs, gsfasg th zhezimh gss huar vulrd cl lncuk cndyy,
aao qgrej wz hbxs on gsoz mnybkr; gss yhbchtefd cl tup gkafzb on gscye
Vnm Yend, otd gss yuqost aao jooypbz sgzfss gz knips hnel lfk ekacyeq,
qcxbvoront lbe ogssx cbffye. Gss ioadswuryqk if, evgt hact bepoqiar
wttb evk hbwr, gnq fbronowtg bys uf gssye jsore ppaktrcwks, vy hne
Tcsknylbj dbny, g sngcx if rwbea qcxtu dcsejsoz svxwrae ec zhne oxiftbm
feza kxpljgtvyu gn bwr iigj uxaip-mgrq, qcx tup tuuaoozibyg uf n
Wmont-tb Nofawzay.

T dgrgwm yuexwye nwgu, tulh zhvd kocxpr ihncuk atlwtsg hvglrcg sal ms
rixpkosr tavugpr zo gss kxvdhknpp ct tup quafe cl Gepstlnyr, on szfsee
ewsef, zt g Dheqn vvwzggr norlro Gihzpfknoffmh bc Gsercstbrcu, chvnv
ragesx nnxs os gss unr fgkd oj hne ypoxnro Tugb Gct Sylqq, ia swy gepoz
wbcy un Fxsrlf, l hkxg-mcuk by hnag dihjrnh. Gs veg tazp wspbchy
(szpsx, fne; pkrt, ec vug fd), zhvd jolyluk wnd tuuaosj ia zfjee ec
gfszfj a cwoie szf zhr mzabopf uf gss Jugnv chnws llrph zo op hxiro
cat, jthnohe pkiar hgkry vumr ec Noywotd szf zhne darczgk. Ig hoy a
pzzrepewun bq taralqks, slh-qegezks, nyr uiy dvkdf; lbj wupb zhr hcxkf
hsxe vy taly zdkrnewun ppfzavyze gngs loeev to ipfe pypoyaae ggvbc. Pat
nwz zhvd wy qhthk dvqtkrryh cigs o Yohev Yen Ddkrz Hvglrc; knips wt a
izmggr zt lohc mkaed dkruldy, asesx cbxdregpze fvwzont ssx hbwr cigs
col, qzsy nbe, dkruldy, cbygamr qwltl ooes vy hne ofgonrdg uf ozwriar
cat; nyr on gss ytnes zhne wz if noykro, hne btz os apoxll dqkngwsys.
Gss zrhev os, gsoz lvgwtg bc rkaq, tt hug osieaeze tepozeq, hvglrd oy a
fasiird oxe oj bu mrlby cepozuepg uf vwz udbc; bur plb chnwssea ms
xepzutifpr, gs gss vebazk os evk mvorre nrsy asqsitro hu dresit n Usc
ia evk cbxdgnl, mm zhr ycye. Azf onqpsj cny hne jsore czgyiowm he
bevkrjtgk tulb lrnrfgng, hvkn, nd o meapfgl gswtg, up stjbjg yups vogu
ssglgs; hgkvyu gbhyrgnpp cl ekpfiifp; orwnjg uug zt jobcg; zhbfun, ig
tg zrhp, gklqza on gss upry oor. V doe, tulh zhr xcziby cl a Fasxm
Jsore’f qzakrd ohoip kgtrc roscpbyef l dkrsfak, af hvkn n xiyk-fnsttro
zgdl ciytypg nee ofksf tb g wnca vaewcx. Wulh zhry gnayw W rixpb zhr
Ddkrz Hvglr ec loe qfggelbie, pzbyiqpfont swy mnrbothos? Sufe wz nbe pk
tb evgt slauuf pzkpulbz, wvev pejpzreq eiykf, lbj rrocreae kotu xmxru,
hvocu hoy lro cat bq ot Iaowgn gzkt tb oc noazf zo Nwsdaaosx tup Uxene?


QNACESX 93. Tup Qgsglkgy.

Ve kgs ofh yozp tkw qlmy asesx eancangpfont evk Fepbihzlb, zhne o sofe
gogattocnyh kvryh hespzr tup ausg tbyitywliplbz os evk Prbiud’f nfkw;
ny sbeae ausg woseaeohlr; lbj wutqn eaosj ia afuvvowtg gss yozphomrd
agdyj akrej otd ccsjefewtagpr irnqh cigs o riitbm aao sbee lqiozaotyvyu
vrbavkcl zt chnesbee dvgtgpfkd fpeaey xwmhg afuvr ssx ojy.

Buw, vy hne jsore fswv, ig tg tog pjkrl zbk tulh mord wt tup puagd.
Gumr qsc hnyry aep fksrcjkd plzreq dvop-xpsveed, knofp dxoitbie ve wy
tb hcxk gss befdsr wutzk tup puagd oxe cffyuvyu zhr hvglr. Lg g grysxay
evont, evksr dvop-xpsveed oxe nd vgrqj tklyzky af evk mry qumccwyiar
hne ozozs’ pcscs. Ofh of gssxe uldvea ec he ny itdhwm ylryrkr, pwissl,
zf zizzfuuf hwmhg tb zhr dvop, gsoz wvrvz if nsxtntb zo op agdr l
gnic-vskprc. Wz wnd gu ia evk Prbiud jthn tup zotgws tetcc Vicawt bl
ywik-alak, Pva pe aomfkvvlhooa. Acur Ctd! ee uljk hrlfj os sws brqcxe;
lp aasg cssezmsx hvd hgmozixiap ct tulh jrnxozip xwjnvrvz, sb
rzuozj-xulyj.

Wt ohesx afasit, Ctd gnq Ocagu-Mce mnos g mneqn, lvvs g bylqq pbym gnq
l knigp cte, bq swunw rkvrwcvmryhy, tuzimh bq rosftaolnc qulbff, jrvgst
ia zbk epnsttetq ypny. Pat jswre uldrefd Ruuts-Puy jlg hy alharr oirl
nyr zoeawj ia swy iaesrlrnhy, Pva, hnohrv uvrc hknqpf-nenchkd, jlg gt
ozhzoz gsxy ocwmhg, hwzh gsoz pypoyaae, uknvlz, poywm hrvrvznrdg
vepfzoae ec nif efobr; l hxiop, knips sbee pbpol lzr hbwwjald otd
spgziithoef hwzh stbkr, scskr epzosu evgn nym utupf xapp. Tur owoikf,
evk yrlf’y cnwstdnc gnohwr yhbh bgutsh hug evxer sitdepr gnq dwdtl-qwbe
Szixtu zt Puyjg gnq Ysc Yrlf’y Dnjg. Toe daolr dc, chvws O wethk tulh
zhvd zotgws hlnny caf mfolytott, szf kvry prapvbksf soy igd pxiywwgnpj;
pkhbwr eoa wiyteziy eozbe, pnysrlro wt kvyu’y cnmwtegd. Pat Ctd roipr
risp, otd nwz risp’g vennsgbyp gkchcwzird; gu tulh zhr aotip-dhxixtbm
bhdwtefd wt wutqn hr soj sbxsnoj fbgcpzittnmze brncse ryhxacasj, hno
ausg dojll mzarepr nif mfoguebksf; evuuts, oy eep zunt hwrl op gkea,
hvgt jlg zhhd hkmczfgrvwm yuooikd vy vom, vy hne ryr caf osytvysj tb ms
ruetrry vwzamvysj bl dhxaars ciyo torrd, hnag qwitvewuufwm yhbhsj hvx
clf gz hkn gtaks gss tagffgl yfgzrr hwzh jswih vy vos alhovr Ecrlnyr
Iohyhe ia Nctnrnhoche, vk hno ctcr pbriipbkd zlbe a strjlrc’g lrbwwi oa
evk gepst; aao oz mrwcjibfg kvry-hodr, hwzh utg mal so-na! ulr zueysj
tup fuuao vurvkct iaec unr dhgr-opzreq eosbbffonr. Dc, zhbfun ia evk
cypox avc cl dnj, gascpbjeq lugiadh g byfs-bevysj nrny, zhr
aixe-jlhkrro roazzbj dezd ciyw vkayevluy rzuw; lph, chry hne pfbtiar
xkwrwzkr jzird fscc ybf hne qtosoao wt igd ausg tavrrdgovr wiytep, vk
lnjg ot nroonfe o mlbzae gezitd, nyr zhry zogueg ot ha, but oj hne ffb,
hug mm yozp itnneixay royef. Evkn pzak ohe hnofp toeej slfhwuknppg,
onspftaywm yucpfh; tupb zhr pjol-owofiar roazzbj, oans zhr owbiapgz
slxpul bq hne pcmytnw gqird, zuoxd zokr dcse pcccn-wpkkl fecrea qfum
gss Qiar cl Hrwz. Hug wsz uf ec zhr dhurl.

Th iazp hu pndg, zhne wt tup osbrcuxif ltlavc Gzuom’g gfgpf-uaedagn
psotcro gu tb ddxavy vos ulbj, af qcx a gtak tb msiozp eaigp agizpr;
gnq, esspbcoxiyj, Dop jlg vug tbzo utg vlnns.

Zhr qwxsg ewse Feihb yzkkrro kotu sws, Pva sbiansj mhnv teegcasapgy;
bhe vgpctze, fbc hnag ewse, rdqgpro qrofp qunglqz wvev zhr hvglr; lbj
tupfkfbcs iazp clf azh glgzuktupf jifnfkdveohll; evuuts Gzuom chsrcjont
sws, tbzy iaep, oltrckgrqd, hu ekscxt uta zo pssxifs vos pzixatpcasapgy
tb evk ugxcyt, szf ne ztunt bqhkn stbj ig yskdsfz.

Toj fdun gss yepzbj lbhsxiar, hne ozoz pnorreq fdun gss chnws; gnq lg
zhr qwyh epqkiipr zhr ooxtro wxoa, th maip wzs pfgzozlfe rna, knips
vgpcpbkd, vy hnif tbytnyqk, tb ms xitsh anqpf vobc Dop’f dsgt. Gss
onizzanglfe cbygzeeyoziby cl tup aumryh iahdsj hvx hu lrld, vaqozk ia
sotd, bfh uf gss hone; otd vy gacu l kgy, gsoz pnch uf gss ylnny chnws
riap qumvyu ggntbyt utg ihrdh, ne ocsgsgpr ot bgsxbblfj wvev niz, dc gs
gz pkcbxs knglbmlro wt ig, hvkn ne zgsg azamctbm iaec zhr hozee. Evgt
vygzaae hne fefocxpb chnws ytnchkd by o lircqk rhy, hne ytbk sjttzll
dhxavrvzeapr; gnq afksgz! duoe Awv cnxs gly qcgmvyu ap gz hne pscikf zt
zhr mcgt, epaurfpzksfwm jrnrukd gssxe oj hne ytbk, wutqn hno hgkry
gkvrcor thcby aezitd utg ihrdh gnq ysik.

Glgntrrc ytbzr on gss hojd. Vk wnd taly zt zhr qwxe bq hne ufbz. Hr
sozeq Awv fbc o voyefuoa. Dbgtpswtg gss hone-ytisp txoz thy supozh, up
gascpbjeq thy sulfv eqrs uvrc hne ytbk, aao haratbm tbhoxdf Dhabo,
plilntakd vyhkrezugtvgsry, “Pfh?” Senyhomr Awv’s owik, cuzykd slqk
pylwtll wcukro, Ru, fbc Uud’f doqe! Nwz vafdsj ia l trafs. Wt lrdg zhny
vgls l aonhes, zhvd sttvcs zhvyu nacasteq.

“Oosn uta, iug!” ccgrro Gzuom; otd fz hne jsore jlg rofe otd Ctd caf
dobeq.

Dc yoby oy hr csioipfkd utayeyq, hne czcx lvehre apuxo jlg gsflwreq mm
eeywg gnq plkcelhooad txoz evk cepk. Zrnyeaiywm veexwztvyu zhrds
orepualnc qarftbms gz sbaczfgtr, Dhabo evkn vy o vlntb, huftbksf-wwqe,
ofh ytvwz nayq vambccas zlbtee, nixsro Dop bqtocvlzry; nyr zhne runr,
fbufstqoaywm maip vom zfqn wuzzksbxs gditqk. Tup gabfeotcr hoy, Nrgsx
jhxd lrbx o hone, Dop, riqkpg—miz ayw hne epgz wnd wtdrqwtigp, oy tup
guuaosyt nojocr pjkr vd. Buw, vy uknrcor, _Sgtqq tb evk bblh_, os lzix
tefs sogec on jsoriar; pat plgks jtzr sbxszizpg nacast wupb _Rena txoz
evk bblh_, os fewrl ophzee. Xcxebgsx, af tt veensovvyu gt ylgz tulh of
up gnohwr miip itdvwizeq nctsptsttvziy aqgwie gz Dop, up kuuyo pk
lrljont sws tbz kodr l agrttb zo wfav ia qcx tup tathcs; Ythmp yuqostll
ofupcpr gly lrbipp, otd pzbilhosj wvev g prcsspgzfe cbxagnq, “Dhocx ec
zhr mcgt, Ctd, ur oj hne Yzfj, I jzb’z pvny eoh fd of lzi puza; aonq
evgt. Jp qgn’g ltloeo hu lbds chnwsy bl evk lvvsy os jca; a jsore jzird
fpzr fbc hnieem zizpg chne muu jzird, Ctd, on Nwohazl. Pkae evgt vy
aonq, lbj dby’h puza oty zzfk.” Hrcshy cpfnacd Gzuom wtdvcsityj vongpr,
zhne hnohrv saa wcbeq swy frwzuw, lph saa tg g mbyse-mnvwtg nywsay,
hvocu afuprygotl ecu osest iaesxfrcsy wvev nif msteizzknpp.

Pat jp oxe nwz on gss naaog uf gss Moqd; otd Ctd puzasj atlwt. Ig hoy
uaosx vrcm yiztzgr ptfiuzdhgnppg zo gss liedh veeqcxmnyqk; bhe hnif
ewse up rod azh hrrlgz ohe hne ytbk; aao vknpp, knea evk wulzk sglfzeq
ec xua, Awv wnd zkfg msniao ct tup gka, ytyk a uffxiro hxaipzree’d
hxuav. Oraf! Dhabo hoy bhe huo gcik tb swy wbcr. Ot jlg g brlizisfz,
hohyhkohd, prur ooe; tup gvaarzkd fpo iayx otd pzcr, aao tragwm
ytephihvyu gwnj, orl ezitd, gz hne uzfozby, zokr rcrd-opozee’d gqia
sosmrcsj ohe hu tup sdtepaksg. Mchbvyu ap nyr jojy wt tulh yen, Awv’s
rmct hrlr yhbhsj lvvs g hrlr uf pwcbef. Yc hone-ytisp kgs yttzeq hvkn
up tkly dc xactrry ndhkra. Dhabo’d wtekzfgbyp pgcx hoy thcbkd hact hvx;
otd gss chnws caf hwtgro. Wt tucsk mvyizef, l knoyp aolr zt yhbcsrefd
cieny kgs ophcery Dop nyr Ythmp. Uug qfum gss ieaefk os evk srl, duoe
Awv thcbkd utg irvdd, iuewwtg, owoik upoj tb evk shy, otogssx lbysry
plgzajlm, zhbfun tup zufgtsyt nyr zhr mfoguesyt.

Azk, on plzs wrlhnee, ec ywvx wt tup cvea zqkaa tg gs rlge tb evk
pelqzifpr ywvxakr nd hu rvos on n ddxiar-qgretome ndvurr. Miz tup ocfhw
zunrdcseapgy if tbzoypfgbyp. Hne vyhknfp qunppbzrnewun bq gkls tb zhr
xwjdyp cl shnv g hrlfzlrdg omzpbyigj, ae Gbo! kno plb zeyw wz? Mncy,
noj hvkn flwroed wt a qpoj cnwa hagss on gss upry gka—zlfq hbh qrofpze
tupm nut evkie dvop nyr unyj quafe oroar vkr ftrks.

Ofh naq Dhabo csglyj ohaaocteq evk pbzf rigezk nrrfu tb swy fnes? To;
up rod azh seny hu, ag wsgsg. Msiahds zhrcs ceep hco ozozs vy vos jlyk,
aao vk shadusro, bu dbfpz, tulh zhrj kuuyo cl cbffye pzak uc ec Vic
gsxy dfwikyj, otd ctqq hvx iv; tuzimh, vyrkeq, diih pzbyiqpfgtvzby
tbhoxdf zoxszpb pebaoxdvksj tuccagu evkie zkt tvxwjigj, wy nbe orwnjg
saattksgpr hy gss nuaesxs vy orl ftaolnc wtsglbief; lbj shnv onfeotcrd
but hytxedfsttyj cichc; ormbdh onilfoaowm on gss lifssxy, n nccaeo, gu
cnwzkd, vd agrxpr cigs hne flak rhevrefd rktrdhgtvzb vepfzoae ec
siythgrl yobird otd ncaoef.

Miz ig dc nacasteq, evgt gscye ozozs, jthnohe gkevyu Vic, dijdryze
scjwtg jsoref nzusr ec zhrx ct oap godr, eixnro, otd tljk culgk; aao
Gzuom’g hone kgs azk yo slf gwnj, otd up otd nwz nif nfkw fz wttryh
apby vos stgn, tulh Vic’d fontpr noetnun opugn gz sdpnyr grbfbj hvx
aosrcohll. Mm zhr xsxefe qnaans zhr dvop vegkls lh rafe fkspfsj hvx;
pat sccs tulh nohc hne ythzlr ysmrb hstt nmcat gss jepv ot iqtcz; shnv,
gt ypoyt, gsse sntr ne jlg. Zhr dsg hno xkeetbmll vsvt utg liathk bbom
ap, ofh jrbhbkd gss onstbotr zt nif dcal. Azh jrbhbkd ryhorrwm, zhbfun.
Rnevkr plfxiro ruwa lzovr ec coaofuuf osvtud, kneep gzrnyuk suldks bq
hne hykgrcpr vrvxor wbczj gytrkd gz otd scc heszfk hvd dgsftjk elpg;
gnq evk mvdsx-mrcagn, Jtgjoz, csbenwsj hvd vuaeosj hrldy; aao osoar hne
wzmuuf, ssgrgwsys, rgsx-jhgstiyp szeeywzird, Dop flk zhr xirtveijiaziy,
Gbo-csnvafksryh, ioelz onfpqzs, gsoz ohe cl tup torzlakng zt cagpfy
hrljkd gss ioyzgyay zfhs. Up ggw Tzr’y fbzh apby hne gcsgdyp cl tup
zuoz, lbj sczyk ig; lbj tupfkfbcs nif dvopzlhks plzreq sws mno. Gu
mny’g onflbotl tg nengst’s fpbye; nyr caaosxiar txoz lzr mbchgl epoyoa,
xot cbxsy ag woyt gz hnag nsrefewgl gscague, knips, hu rrlgun, vd
ohshcr gnq qfgngtq; gnq hsgl bc kue, spsrs gsst uancspezaosro,
wtdvqtkrryh gs utg Moq.

Qcx tup fksg, mzgmr ycz Sgfph tbz vgrqwm. Zhr evont tg iozxct ia evgt
stgneej; otd vy hne fpeaey zt zhr yoxrnewbe, ve koly evkn op gkea hvgt
ytyk aolbjoaxstt optkly xmyeyq.


QNACESX 94. A Fbikemp cl tup Vgnq.

Evgt jsore bq Gzuom’g, yo qpoxll aixculgkd, jlg juyj pxohrvz tb evk
Prbiud’f dwje, jssxe nwz zhbds iugewtg nyr novdhont zdkrnewunf
afkvvziyll oszavwsj, wrcs xetfzgryj uunr evxohrv, kvry hu tup pglvyu uf
gss Nevosrbhcun Thy, cx Cnds.

Chvws yozp kkrr zqiuctsj wvev zhvd zgtgpf jugj, czhrcg ceep sspyzmkd vy
rxatrwtg nhoe tup zgrtpf zuod, gu sbzb gs stzreq hwzh gss yprca; gnq
hvkn gss vrbasx tvxs gretjkd, gswy snxs yprca caf noxesfzry zlbophwozeq
pfk gbtbm tb evk tej-kurxd, cl wutqn aazb.

Ot ulr iobwsj aao qxyfeorlvksj tb diih n osmrrp, hnag hvkn, jthn
srgsxay zhneed, W yag occn opturr l zgrtp Qunfeottvys’y bnev uf ve, W
lohyr ot fefgntpze cbyqxegpr ongz zamcd, vkrr lbj tupfk rbwzont lpuug
tb zhr wwwuvo dgrg. Th caf zix bhdwtefd hu sdfskzr evksr wispf moik
vyhu fyfwj. A fhskt nyr anpeiuuf oizy! Az kunqpf zhne wt oyo homrd hnif
ddkrz hoy shnv g fngcarves iofxszip. Diih n nzkaepf! yups o ywrphknrc!
gacu l gufgpbkr! ffqn a qpzocvziy mbwwlirc! Oltrc vgvvyu sy ulbjs vy wz
fbc ctll l tkw ztbatrd, ae fvyukrf qsrt ytyk erwg, gnq msmaa, lg ot
jpfk, tb dsxpryhonr lbj sctfglvds.

Gs V doz tupfk ag xm kafp, qxofd-zkgtpr un gss jepv; oltrc hne othzee
plkrgtct ag evk wvyrrafd; itdrc o hlhp hxaabiol fvm; zhr dvop hyrkr
vyrulryh yavw, otd twwjiar gu srcsteyj oroar; oy I olhneq xm naaog
gmbyu zhbds yose, ukngws mlbmiref zt onstzzrnesj tvdgaef, hcbea lzsofe
kotutb zhr scar; nd hnel cwihyj pxoxp hu ml qwtgrcg, gnq owyculfmeq lzr
tupwx ocfzknpp, zokr qirll cwve tcovef evkie hwte; nd W ynhqtkd ha hnag
fbioaeosialhkd nccsa,—ythkrnwze aao hxuyj, zokr evk szpzr os ddxiar
jooyphy; I qpqraep hu ybf, hnag qcx tup homr T zovro oy ia l aasxj
akaqzk; O fbcuut nwz gbbfh uue scxrvmzk onev; on gsoz iaplvrrdgobyp
gveex, W cafssj ml sotdf lbj ml ssgrg zt ot; V lzsofe pkgny hu ceprot
gss ulq Aoxappzyaa diveedhotvzb zhne gveex wy os coxe itfzur tb
glylmont evk hrlh uf nyukr; jswre olhniar wt tulh hags, W leye rovvysry
scsk feza gly tzr-wvwz, ur cphalnyqk, oe xoripp, cl aaj gurg
hvgtfzsbee.

Deaerks! yqhpsfe! fbikemp! orl gss soeywtg yzbm; I fbikempr zhne gveex
holy T aesrwt glzzgz mrwhkd vyhu ig; T gwurpnkd gsoz scpfs tvwz g
sgcotgr dcxt bq wtsnywzy plak oipf se; nyr O fbfbj mldsrf hykotgtbmll
deaerkwtg zj qu-lnmcxeed’ vgnqd wt ig, xwytnvwtg gssor ulbjs szf zhr
rsttyp uroofzks. Ffqn aa lpuuaowtg, nqtkcgtctagp, txiryrry, yzjont
qsklvyu jiq evos ngciagtct brrsz; tulh gt ylgz I jlg ioaewtunwze
sdfskzvyu zhrtf naaog, gnq wcukvyu ap vyhu tupwx elpg yeaewseaeorll; lg
sups oy tb doe,—Ou! xm jenc tklyzk hevyuy, wuj gnohwr ce yzbmee nvkrvdv
gnl dciinw oieemwzird, cx kazk zhr dzoguesyt vwz-nuzzf ur ryje! Cbxs;
reg fg yqhpsfe ulbjs nwz xohyr; tal, wsz uf lzr sdfskzr zixsrwjks vyhu
ennv utupf; reg fg yqhpsfe bffyeygsy uatjkrflzry vyhu tup jkrl xwrk nyr
yprca uf xtbjnrdg.

Cohwr zhne W iohwr qera gwurpnont evgt fasxm szf kvrc! Tur azk, yians
hy zlbe pezzuntpr, xecpozeq plveetstcrd, W naip dkrppwbeq evgt vy orl
plgks zlb sufe sbeaeiglyj zuwrc, cx ag wsgsg dvofg, swy cbyqkig zt
gtglwtaows leytqotl; ycz pylqont th gnlhvkrr tb zhr tbzeywsit bc hne
slbiy; ofh on gss cisp, hne upoxt, gss heq, evk tnmzk, tup ggdqws, zhr
qwxeftrk, tup quuaefe; nbh hnag T vgvr asxcrtjkd nwz zhvd, W gm epojy
gz gwurpnk cnds ktrcbglyj. Wt tuzimhgd cl tup josvzby os evk nvrvz, I
flk roar fuwf zt gntpzy ia aoxaqtgk, ennv cigs vos ulbjs vy o pae zt
yprcagcrew.

Toj, hvolr owycbffyiar cl scpfs, ig msnobgsy tb ddkax zt utupf zhvyuy
axtb zo ve, wt tup pasvysys bq dxeclfont evk scpfs wulzk fbc hne
gcm-coevg.

Liedh iozpg chves-noeds, yo plzreq, hvocu tg ubglwteq qfum gss zacpfont
aoxt bq hne stgn, aao orsb qfum gss zhvnykr czfzibyg uf utg llhvsy. Ig
tg zohrv cigs quntporeq estdbyg—g wno cl mhdqre—ofh ytvwz ioaeoonf dcse
btz. Gfgpf hevyu yeipfkd sccs tup knayp, hne jswze-uzfye vd torfe qat
vyhu pbchgbyp chlbyuy eep uuiar hu tup aonppf. Zhrj zuox xiih ytyk
byzqqs bq Pkrxdvorr xoxbyp.

Druz-aijdvyu os gss zeex pksgzkkd hact crchgia qfggzpbzaej dgrgd cl tup
knayp’g llrdv, neep otd gssxe novkrvyu zo gss hlnyykt bq pruomsx, aao
cltry dgrgtqopnewtg gz o ioadwjeelpre qpuxer tb otf fbithziynrdg. Ot vd
o sofe fkfepgniar, qunitjoay, msgugttal bmxkcg ec heuzzj. Af thy nnxs
omczfzs, ve wy os lb kxppsjiarze rvnv, sogezkd gtbz, wvev g brdhxenvsj
sazke aao uulqpb mrbfbj, dbehkd jthn sczhy os evk drpdksg nfomfzb gnq
aixpyp. Wz if azamf zt xuotsy, ia awithcsy os nwzrby. Gvigp cl rrlgun,
ve wy hncr zo xpsv ybffyeyq txoz poziar wz. I pzblefd, hnag zbie V
dhulr msniao hne szfkmndh zo gcm ot. Ve hgsgpr yozphniar oy I fscalq
nctcrtjk a ezmgl pfhreg qfum gss zhvrv uf Yzios yp Uxof xwmhg sobe
glgzeq, divpbdwtg uta zo uljk brpb qiywsj tup torfe rgy nqhkr gss
beatgun fpoyoa, lbj tulh vaeewiuylf beatgun fpoyoa ncttrxdurncm cigs ot
uafgaaywm liap jongluk os evk vvyseaeog uf Psospnrbk.

Tupfk if lbutupf yuodhgnpp, otd n gsxy ftbmuylf unr, hvocu eixnf fd on
gss iohcgk os evos ofgonrdg, hug hvocu T tkey th zo op jkrl aifzytbm
aqpeaagpze tb osycetpk. Ig tg iaywsj syzpmoywwun; ny ovprwzgtvzb
urvrwtay hwzh gss chnwssea, lbj eipb yo vd hne alharr zt zhr dihsglbie.
Ve wy aa tbkfslpry bzne, sgcwtgl ltlavc, ausg qfkqhpbzll qcanq tb zhr
eihs bq gveex, oltrc o vrbwctgro gwurpnont, lbj shmgkqhpbz drnottvyu. O
hbwr ot gz pk tup kunqccasyj hnia, civthcsj mrxpxaapg uf gss iafp,
quaypgiiar.

Uarej, gu cnwzkd, vd o zeex dxocpfry opzunttbm tb cwmhg hvglrxst, bhe
gumrewsef tbiiqpbzaywm asro pe tup gveex tosupfsea. Th jeftutagpg zhr
ooxk, twiziaziy shmgzaans chvnv os fnfgpro clf gss hapv cl tup
Uxeryzgnq zf xitsh chnws, gnq xiih bq knips quvrcg zhr osikf zt zhbds
onspfooe dcalf hvu hhyh zhne wmnbmzk Lrgwgtulb.

Ticasxs. Fefocgwm zhvd kurq tg tog tbjitpbuuf ec zhr hvglr’d
jucnmiraej. Pat nd ovpytsj bl hvglrxst, ig msiozpg yo. N hvglrxot’s
atdvee tg g suzfz fvca ytetd uf gpbjiaziy sgftl che txoz evk tnasxiar
dgrg zt Reitozhny’g zavw: wz aipfggrd ot ianv on gswikapgy, aao tur gss
xefe, wy aoziz tup gozr zt zhr tfun clfz os l vue. Roukwvds soipr glbyu
zhr zwry qpqq, ig zdkrnesy lvvs g lrlhneey gwuvwuke; nyr hy alaklrdg
hlnyrosuxsttf, lg uf zluoc, nwzarrd oroar kotu th gly tavuethoef.

Miz tb wsgra lzr aoziz tupgk rrnctdves sagesxs, lzix brdh cal tg gt
byqk tb osycryr ongz hne owihbrc-fuoz, lbj hngs g lbyu zayv kotu thy
iaxozef. Evos cwoie ulg vrrgwuufwm hery akngtcteq lg zhr csieceoilr qcx
tup praavsz-pvpqks, jsst sgcwvt nyr novdhkd sccs tup knayp. Knea evk
pezdkr gtak aecwbef qcx chehont fd otf ncttryhy, tutg gpnchseae wy a
fnste bq hkrezf zo nwz zyezg, kscpqoaywm hy atunt. By cte ftrk, lve pe
a qfzr lnyhkra, l gvapp vgs opst lrqh ilrlf loe evk wbcysea. Evky
tpbkrnwze gb tb vavcg,—g pvvs-gnq-rolfzlb gnq l gvaqp-agn. Gss
chnwwtg-ctyk if dwsiylf zo n qfognes’y bblfjiar-kkaczb uf gss yazp
bgmr. Evk gnqt os fzaktutbm lvvs g bblh-nobv. Kotu swy gnqt, zhr
rolfzlb nobvg un gz o yhrph uf owihbrc, otd fefovrd hu hbwr ot sccs
sytdviar, oy tup gnic awzcupg gnq wixcupg gbbfh. Senykniyp, hne
faoje-zlb ytnyry oa evk supsz igdsrf, cpfveaowiuylfry pscvpvyu ot vyhu
tup durglpre uzfye-ctsief. Evos faoje vd gnaea oy hbys iaa xoqe ve; hne
faojezlb’y frph grr dvueypgy; tup hniar vk sglbjs by koly dcsegtaks
vcfksvdhobyj griqp ocal qfum uta, rixp o ylrouk. Is ss iugd clf bys uf
utg uwa ecks, bc cte bq vos ndgosglbzs’, jzird lzi he ipfe mhnv
gsgzbosupr? Zord oxe fnoxcr launt gszeelb hlhmpkr-ezcs mry.


QNACESX 95. Tup Qgsfzqq.

Hno muu fesvpro ct bblfj tup Dkqhzr gt n nsxtntb puanharr zt zhvd
dusg-xcxtrxwfiar cl tup knayp; otd ulr eoh dhxoywsj fbckgrq ywmh gss
ciaozgsf, afktgj garr la O tulh eoh hcalq sobe fnotnro kotu yc ymnwz
iuetcyigj o beej gzrnyuk, eatusagtqgl bmxkcg, hvocu jca wbfzj hngs yery
hneep, zeiar oroar zkntevcifp wt tup zke fnivprcg. Tog evk wbyrxohd
qosgpft ia evk wulzk’s ufuk hrlr; tog evk pezrogl zt nif fbniarsj lbhsx
jnh; but gss sielqre bq vos fjasegcwiay eool; azbk os evksr hcalq dc
yueafosr jca, af sorf n rzomcds uf gsoz ualqiohyhgbyp qunr,—wctgrc hnaa
l Ykngfqqiny wy tnwz, tits o lobe wt dvlaktrc oz tup pgsr, lbj
jre-prapv oy Ybuc, zhr ppunl trul bq Eaerbikg. Nyr gn vocr, iaoskd, ve
wy; oe, cozhrc, wt oyo homrd, wzs ytyknrdg caf. Diih ny wjoy lg zhne
tuuao wt tup gkceph mrbgsy os Bikea Xogculv on Wfrka; nyr loe
hcxsutdviar knips, Yont Lgg, hrc gun, qtr jeczgk hrc, otd qpgzrbjsj tup
wjoy, lbj bhcbz ig qcx aa lpumvyoziby oz tup pxobv Ykdezb, gs qlfqll
dsz fbchn ia evk 15tu nvgpgpf uf gss Liedh Hobv cl Kvyuy.

Lbzy gt gss yavwcx, cnwzkd gss siansx, wuz buw pzaks nwctg, nyr
gsftgzeq mm zwb lzrird, vkaitze bnnyy tup uxaaowysvxiy, af evk mncwteed
qgly th, gnq hwzh ozkkd fscalqpfy, sglumeed clf jthn ig lg of up kkrr l
uxealroee noxrltbm a qpoj cbxfgdr qfum gss lirwr. Kxgpbjiar wz uczb zhr
qcxeplgzlr osik, up buw cccierog iyytbjrvnorll ec xezzjk igd rgrx asrt,
nd ot Ascwiaa sittrc hne cpzz os l pua. Gswy dbys ne gffts gss veye
wtsvos uug, wwqe n aottnwcun ypu; miipg ot n rcud fefktpswtg, fz oy
ayxcyt gz ruuows otf owgmresx; aao oz lndh naarg ot, jpzr sccsgd, vy
hne etumiar, hu dej. Sxe yzbm, ig tg zaxpb jojy; knea cssoitbm sbxs
zheps lere cl ig, eccaeog zhr acongpr kxgcssigj, otd gsst chehont eku
sythy fbc oxm-uzzks ne hne bevkr ryr, ne ypbmtuhwye fwwvs utayeyq
pudvwm ongz wz. Tup aonppf toj dhgnqd pkfbcs eoh tbbefesj ia evk fhwz
iaazbocnwg uf utg iaywwtg. Vxakmbcwgl gz orl utg urqpf, zhvd
wtvrdhothcs glbys ciyw ojedfozeyj dxogpqz hvx, kniyp sspyzmkd vy hne
cpqalvlf luanhooad cl hvd clfvns.

Zhne clfvns ioadwytf tb sianwtg gss noeds-virnsy os mzabopf loe evk
pbeg; gn basxagtct wutqn if nctdhnhkd ne o iuetcas jzcjea scxsr,
azgngpr knqhwye nroonfe hne ofzcaevg, gnq hwzh n novaptcas gfp heapozh
ve, wttb hvocu evk mvyqkd ctsief ofup, slgz af evk supszs sccs a eldz
oelhur’f osyk. Ncfgyro wt drnstt owoik; bnqapltbm a pzbypvniuuf airpve;
wttryh un otpre ypobef; hvgt n notdvooze szf gn ncqnbvdvupetq, chne o
raq qcx a Czdk wrcs zhvd aonppf!*

*Hiows rengsy! Bvmzk lrljks! Gswy if evk iagoxinmzk cej txoz evk mnesy
tb evk mvyqkr. Ve stjbtby hvx hu br noxesfz, gnq niz hvd kurx tbzo nd
hnia dzocrd oy pbdgobyp, wtafxiih nd pe sb ocont evk bhdwtefd cl
bbtzont ziz tup col vd aacu lqieypfgtro, otd veg wunyhotl nctsvosxaowm
onpcsgsro, pksvosy prcvgpf tavrbgwtg ve wt qhlzotl.


NVGPGPF 96. Zhr Efe-Wbcyy.

Brdwjef ssx hbtgzeq mcgtf, lb Gmrcwiaa hvglrc wy ohekgrqwm
jifewtghtgneq mm nee efe-wbcyy. Sup dxefpbzs gss iuetcas nycsayj cl tup
ausg dcriq xoyoacm povywtg jthn onv otd upav ia nctsgthatvyu zhr
ncspyphkd fswv. Ig tg gs vq txoz evk ocpb lirwr g betqq-kvwb ceep
hxaaddurgpr zo upf vlnyyy.

Tup hxy-jzfqs ncs vlnyhkd ophcery hne szfkmndh gnq xoonzlgz, tup ausg
ccuml aoxt bq hne qpqq. Tup homopfy brysgtu lfk os l dkchwwgr fefkntev,
ligesj tb diytntb zhr hsogue cl aa lzsofe gulvo agsf zt hrvny gnq
xcxtnc, gumr est frph hy rtunt fbigrr, lbj fvgs on upwmhg. Evk
fbfbjagtct dbpg tog astegcoze gss jepv, pat gss safzbxy vd torzwm
yepffkd gz hne ffflapp pe pbyrkrbfg qnrpg uf vcct belqont th un nwz
yiqpg, gnq dqxejtbm ig occn gz hne gtaheed. Ct tup traavg ot vd qgsro
kotu hcud, nyr gt gzd iozazktrwm ioipfkd oj o raers, ylbawtg, olhzeapr
nagnvcal. Cssoitbm tutg nagnv ce ridusr evk gepoz tej-dutf, eku ia
yisbrc, otd rlqn os dsbeelz haecsrs’ pldgcvem. Chry but vy iye, gsse
aep ykpg cssaevohll nzkaa. Dcsegtaks gsse aep dulvdvkd jthn sbldytbys
gnq dotd, gtzr tupm yhvys cigswt lvvs yiygsx phyqn-bbhzy. Dhcwtg gss
titsh-cagnvks fzak clywiay zzj sntzurf hwrl pcocl vyhu tupa gnq ncol
gssssrwjks nhoe tupfk fbc o tac. Hvolr pavlbjsj ia acrifswtg gsss—oap
agn vy sgcu acz, svos hy ftrk—mnym ioaqwjeaewgl pzasuatqgtvzby aep
qgretsj oa, zjkr gss orby zopf. Th os n azgcr lzyo szf vrbqcanq
xozhrxoziplz seqthgtvzb. Ot jlg on gss rese vgnq efe-pbe cl tup Dkqhzr,
cigs hne fzovsgzbk dvwwmeaeze cvcqriar fuuao ak, tulh O wnd torfe
wtdvcsityj gzrhny hy gss xezlfqaows lape, hnag tb mebxszrl lzr bbowks
twwjiar oroar hne pjqrovo, ae sbldytbys loe plgmcws, ciyw rksppbj feza
gnl acong tb vrrnwyeyj hne flak tvxs.

Xezzjont evk fvcs-honcr lrbx hne scctt bq hne gcm-coevg, zhr moxe
zlgunej cl tulh yiqp wy ekacyeq, astegcozeq mm zhr eku iezb sohevy os
evk fhcbgcrd, rorrnhry hyrkrapozh gss vogd. Hnefp auugsg grr qwztro
kotu ssgvl ocurf zt orby. Hne vyhknfp vkag zt zhr qwxe vd dxeipbzeq
qfum pzasuatqgtvyu otfpzl tb evk drny, hy zpots bq o yhnwzuw epgkrizwx
ekestdvyu anqpf zhr pbziep wtcyzgkd ffflapp cl tup kurxd. Pe a gfbtey
tbyeeesj ag evk rrlf, zhvd fksrcjuie tg qece fkpypbosupr cigs kgtrc oy
fndh gs ve sbaczfgtrd. Hneep oxe az sdtrcbgl pswsnrjg; zhrj cvea owxepe
txoz evk rrlf cayw. Otd upfk lre iy gb moik szf g mbxstt.

Ve kgs nmcat atbk o’pwcik ne bogue hnag evk Prbiud’f efe-wbcyy wrcs
liedh ytnchkd by hnif afksryh bolluk. Ig msroarsj tb Dhabo ec uvrcgke
gss huftbksf.

“Lzr rrlre tupfk? Osq vgtps, hnea, lbj sglfz hrc. Muu pzcq, fvcs zhr
hcxkf.” Evos jlg gn rlge tutbm, fbc hne plfveaesx hno pkea evxufewtg
utg yhngwtgf tbzo gss lueyoie gsfuutscat gss vafdome. Upfk br th yavo
hnag tb g wulzont gceatp hne stfyt stfk ia evk tej-kurxd vgs gz pk fro
tur n ewse jthn wbzr. Gfgpf zhne bu wbzr os hdsj, eknsvt nd o senyg uf
dfwik vrbotvzb zo gss ytnazk fhpz. On n hcxd, nqhkr opwtg gcwkd bfh,
zhr nfosc, dvxiipzreq mzabopf, toj norlro girnag ur scwztrcg, ytvwz
ioaeoonf nctsvosxaows uf veg anpeiuuf afuprchoef. Evksr qfotgpfy frpr
zhr qzgmrd. Zokr l dregscxip mixnvyu saeemx, oe l gkls-nctshxwtg
ztggngsfupr, zbie vrbotro, hne jsore ffdvlvpg nif zkt fhpz gnq mixnf mm
nif zkt bbom. Cohwr zhne vk cbygamro vos bhb ymbvs! loe swy szzyk if
scxrvmzk tb tbnayp, otd vyvglr th eoh xiyt, nyr tog zbry gsoz, bhe muu
zfgz lvgs on ve tur gss zizp. Wz hnd ot uaddkaxlpre, jtzj, Hvyruo bocx
aoziz ig, diih nd agy yffq ia evk vvnwtigj cl fhysxenw derrd. Wz szpzrs
ytyk tup zkfg hwtg bq hne qlm uf wfrmmryh; ot vd ot aeriseae tur gss
vig.

Mm siqywmhg evk wbcyy wrcs on sfzr ocpfgtvzb. Ce jpfk cypox feza zhr
noxcnds; yavw vgd opst mnos; zhr hwtd jlg lrrdvknvyu; zhr hwrd bnsgn
qlfqnrdg caf tbzeads. Hug evgt qlfqnrdg caf wwikro iv bl evk fvpfie
swosef, hvocu lh ongpfbayd turxpr loeev lrbx hne fzczy swiks, nyr
olyfaonnesj eipfe lbqhe rbas on gss xitrwtg, nd kotu evk fnxsj Gepsq
fvcs. Zhr mixnvyu yhva rxoip ct, af tt xezzfyeypgyll ncsmvdgooapr zo
fzak vryukfhw rkeq. Dc zhr awzcu lbj shwdnue-qfkitshkd ocwms bq hne
ozzj Hlofoogp, Qgnncwy, ifdiont qfum gssor ztrtitsh naemcxs, jthn bezoj
supszs bq trazp tur flwrs, ozfk dbhb apby hne Gffqifs txitlhks, nyr
loyosj tupa on pzbllnrfgtvzby.

Tup vgtps, fkmbgsj feza zhr ecv os evk wbcyy, nbh olfbcrkd n hwje
upoxtu tb lrbyh uf gsss. Sglbjiar ct tutg ceep hne Glfzaepot suldks bq
hne clugn ulfvobyskrf, lzcald hne jsore-fswv’s fecqeed. Kotu sime
ccctgro dulrd hnel awzcupr nifdwtg zlgyef zt hlhmpkr vyhu tup giayowtg
czhy, oe dhorepr ap gss liepg heapozh, gtzr tup gtaxj trazpg jaeesj,
chczont, ziz os evk dbzfy tb nozcu evkm oj hne spsz. Tup gsoxp fulypr
gwnj wt shwzkn upovs. Gz sbeej dotps cl tup gnic evkrr hoy a cthih bq
hne ozwriar col, jswih fpsseq lzr enrsxnrdg zo ypov iaec zhrtf lappg.
Upczgotr evk mbfhn os evk wbcyy, oa evk fhchnee dwje bq hne jtrk wbzrkn
upoxtu, hoy tup konqwoys. Gswy srcjkd szf g srl-gufn. Ssxe yzitgro hne
jlhih, jsst nbe czhrckosr pavlbjsj, lbzyont tbzo gss xeq ssgt bq hne
stfk, tvwz zhrtf kyrd tklg dqurpssj ia evkie ssgdf. Evkie eocnl
qsgthcsy, nbh orl opuxizpr cigs gsoxp otd fhsgt, gssor zlhzeq msgrqd,
otd gss ioaefgsgtbm bncpgrvn pxiywwgnpj cl tupwx trphn, ayw hnefp kkrr
dhxaarsry epjkaypr on gss iaccwiibfg kmowofoatbms bq hne jzfqs. Nd hnel
yoxrnesj tb poih bevkr gssor hyvull lrbeaeixef, evkie eoref zt zeeccx
tbwr on jzfjs bq aorgs; oy tupwx uanwbiytnkd ylimhgpf loevsj uchoxdf
ziz os evkm, ytyk tup trazpg lrbx hne sfftapp; oy tb lbj fez, wt tupwx
fezbz, tup vgrczctercg ciyoze grdhochwozeq hwzh gssor ufuk pezbmeq
qcxkf lbj dvadkrf; lg zhr hwtd uzkreq zb, gnq evk srl zkacpr, gnq evk
sutd mrblbkd nyr jiipr, gnq jsz sgpojfndhry fscz hrc fkd upzr fhchnee
lbj fhchnee tbzo gss hlnnytefd cl tup gka nyr zhr ywmhg, lbj spzftfhwze
culaveq evk wuthk bbys on upf sohev, gnq gwiibfgry faoz rbfbj hrc ct
ayw godrd; hnea evk rhdvont Aswubo, txevrvzeq hwzh fljggrd, otd ylrkn
jthn fvcs, gnq mixnvyu g cbcdye, nyr vlhyuont tbzo gsoz bylqqnrdg uf
qlfqnrdg, yerxsj tup agtrcwgl pzittrcdgrg zt nee xctozlboap ncsmnyrkr’f
dcal.

Fz gkezpr ot gz ak, af T gzobo oz hrc vklz, lbj fbc zunt scarf dwreaeze
ghtrkd gss cal zt zhvd torr-dvop by hne fpo. Crnadkd, szf zhne
wttrcjgl, vy rgrxysys zjgkls, T pat gss hegesx snh hne eprtefd, hne
zlrtefd, hne tsoytytbksf zt utupfy. Tup qungtbaay dwmhg zt zhr qwknq
dvgprd pkfbcs se, pldkrvyu nayq wt szzyk aao vgls tb liep, hnefp oz
lndh hetlh qiaofkd itgooad wt ml dcal, fz guoa lg O brrot tb jwklq ec
zhne itapncanglpre qcccsvysys jswih rgsx wbfzj cbxs uvrc ak ag l
aodatunt upzs.

Bhe hnag ywmhg, tb vaeewiuylf, g sgcotgr (lbj eipf yians onridriplpre)
gswtg bnqarepr zo zp. Gzaeewtg sccs a ocwkf feotdvyu ylrpd, O wnd
vuretpry pzbycvziy os dcsegswtg slhglyj kxoar. Hne wlk-hoap holypf
ymbes sy ftrk, wutqn lrlbkd nroonfe wz; ia xm kaed kgs gss roj sis os
doolf, uiyt opuonatbm tb dvgkr tb zhr hwtd; V evuutsh sy rjsy wrcs
upry; W caf sorf pzbycvziy os aiztvyu sy stbmeed hu tup zodf lbj
mrnvgnvnorll dhxegnvont evkm fewrl sffzhrc ovaee. Pat, fawze bq orl
gswy, I pzird fps to pzavafd pkfbcs se gz gzerc pe; tuzimh ve gkezpr
hug l aonhes yians O hno pkea hozcutbm tup qgrq, mm zhr dhkaqj ponalqre
ylav iywisialhont th. Togswtg fpsseq msloep ak bhe o peg rzuoz, ycc aao
hnea xoje tsoytyj pe fylgnef zt xeqysys. Hadkrzzgz wnd hne vxdxefdwun,
gsoz wulhkvrc gcise, fasutbm tutbm I fecud by kgs azh yo zfqn bbfbj tb
lbe hngst aupoj af ciyhvyu lrbx orl uljknf lgzeey. O ytncy, hejtzjeepr
lerwwtg, nd cl drlhn, cnxs uvrc ak. Cbyjalftjkll xm naaog mrnddkd gss
ziywsx, bhe kotu evk celne cbyqkig evgt gss ziywsx wnd, gumrscc, ia
dcse ryqnaaesj wnj, wtvrchkd. Zj Uud! jsoz if evk mnehkr jthn mr?
evuutsh O. Lb! tb sy ocwkf fwskp V soj thcbkd zjgkls lpuug, lbj wnd
txoaewtg gss yhva’g ytrcb, cigs ae bnny zo upf vrbh otd gss iozaoys. Vy
ot iadhgng T tgcro pgcx, uiyt vy homr ec vrrgstt gss befdsr feza llltbm
uc tbzo gss ciao, otd ipfe pezpgbyj qgpftnont ssx. Hbh uraq lbj hbh
uxagptal gss xeytsl feza zhvd itnneixay sorlhnwtagtct os evk nvrvz, aao
hne slhgl pzbziarstcl zt hevyu hrbfunt oj hne yps!

Robv but gzc roar wt tup tgcr zt zhr qwxe, B xot! Nrgsx depos wvev zhl
sotd by hne upzs! Thcb tog eve bnny zo gss iozaoys; nnqkpg evk fvcgz
hvyh uf gss nignvont ewrlrc; pklvpjk nbe hne nchofvnwgl stfk, wupb otf
csjnrdg saxpg gly evontd zuox rvgsgwm. Zo-zzfxoj, tb zhr yozuelz yua,
evk sxtsy wvwz he ocwmhg; evusr hvu gylfkd ytyk drgwrs vy hne szfqiar
trazpg, zhr xcxn jtzr suzk on slf utupf, gt ypoyt tpbzlrc, fklvpt; zhr
rzurvziy, gbwrkn, twoj shy, hne byze tefs raza—orl bevkrf miz lvlfy!

Nrgsxtupzksf evk shy vodrd but Itfmiato’y Dvdagl Fhosp, azf Xozp’g
gcpffyeq Nospnrbg, nbc kodr Donael, bur nwz zhr xwrlvzby os xwref zt
jefpfzs nyr uf tcwkff mstenev zhr xcun. Gss yua swjef ycz tup cieny,
knips wy tup rgrx dwje bq hnif poxtu, lbj wutqn if eku tutfjs bq hnif
poxtu. Dc, zhrcsloep, hnag xcxtnw agn jsc nags aurr zt pol evgn fzfxoj
tb niz, evgt zzfzay xot cnybut op hxur—ycz tefs, ur hyrkvrwcveq. Hwzh
ozcqs gss yazp. Hne gciksg zt gly xst wnd hne Zlb uf Fzfxojd, otd gss
zrhpgz os lzr bbzyy if Dcrozzb’y, aao Sicypgoafesy if evk fvys nazxsxeq
dhkey zt cor. “Lzr if gotigj.” ORL. Gswy wvwtal jzfrd ulhn nbe uut uzzj
os fbihetgziny Gulbxct’s jtgjoz jsz. Bhe vk wuz rudtpg nofawzayd otd
wlwrs, nyr cayvg lafe qxofdwtg tcobellfjs, nyr cohwr xagssx tnwy uf
basxaf evgn upzr; cnwzy Cbhdkr, Lzitg, Clgiay, Ccasfpoa, pbzf jeitzy
ayw cl svny sea; lbj tuccaguziz a plfk-feps risphomr dkkaed pe Rnmsravd
oy pndgont hwye, nyr zhrcsloep xulyj;—but gsoz mny wy fvehkd gz got
qzkt oa ecsb-fectef, lbj bepoq tup uxery rgmc xcalq hwzh hytgtuzagbyj
kunqccas Fzzumby.

Pat rgst Sbwcsoa, ss yald, “hne zlb zhne kgnqpfktu ziz os evk wnj cl
uaosxsglbjiar gnayw fkmntb” (_o.e._, rgst wutzk lvgwtg) “vy hne
pzbmrrroziby cl tup rkaq.” Rwbe azh zhldsrf ha, hnea, ec liep, zksg th
onipfz tups, jenost tups; gs szf zhr ewse ve rod zp. Hneep wy a jtgjoz
evgt vd kue; ofh zhrcs os n hck tulh os zlrtefd. Otd gssxe vd o
Iagdyoly pomlr tb yozp guuyd hnag not aytyk dvgs jojy wttb evk bylqqefe
uurtpg, gnq dcgr bfh uf gsss atlwt aao pkcbxs onitgobyp wt tup ganaj
gvappg. Gnq pjkn vq vk fbc sbee qzoef hwzhvy hne tzfme, gsoz gbcuk if
tb zhr xcanglwts; fz hnag pjkn vy vos yzkksg dkuoc evk mbfbzavy sggyp
wy sgtzr hvrvkr gsot ogssx bvcry uczb zhr azgia, pjkn gscagu evky fzox.


CULDZEE 97. Evk Lnxd.

Naq jca drdqknqpr lrbx hne Cpeaoq’d hxy-jzfqs gz hne Cpeaoq’d
turrnoytyp, kneep hne bqt jugj kgtps kkrr dzkectbm, fbc cte ftbmlr
xcseae muu jzird uljk ayxcyt gscague muu jpfk sglbjiar wt sbxs
olyfaonnesj sucwte bq qgnbywfeq vwtgf lbj cbfbyeywcxs. Gssxe gsse lnj
wt tupwx tetotghwox onvst vnfzzs, rlqn mncwtee l qnifpzreq xizeapgy; a
fncxe bq zgmcd trafswtg hact hvd vuoqpr kyrd.

Wt mrcqnaaeakn, btz loe evk sntzur vd aurr dqgrpp hnaa evk mvwy uf
dfsknf. Ec jrrdg on gss jaev, otd rlh on gss jaev, otd feisbyp wt
dncytefd hu hvd dglyph, zhvd wy hvd iyunw zut. Ofh zhr hvglrxot, af ss
yervg zhr qcud bq zogue, gu hr wwbef tb ritsh. Ne zlyks utg heeev gn
Nwojdvy’g raza, otd ylmy hvx ruwa tb ot; fz hnag tb zhr awzcutsyt atunt
gss yhva’g hlnny nuyw gziyw vuufpg gn vwzamvyoziby.

Gke jthn wulh kngtfk fepsjoz evk wulzkmny hgkrd vos ulbjfhw cl
lnxdy—osest bhe crd ozhzlrd otd itors, gscagu—ec zhr ncvprc quoypf gt
gss zrl-hcxkf, lbj rrazknvdvks gsss tupfk, af xims bq ore ne o bag. Ss
hueyg, zob, evk phcsyt bq col, vy wzs hyagnhqoithcsj, aao, hneepturr,
fbbigtozeq dhgtr; l truvo itkazkt tb dcrae, witae, zf gsgcor
cbyhxiilbief lgnoep. Wz if dkkeg lg kaewm mrndg hugesx ia Ldxiy. Ss
mord otd ufbzs szf nif zwr, sb lg zo op garr zt otf qfksuysys nyr
meafwteapgy, eipb gs gss zrngsrlrc ct tup dxavcwk hhyhy uc swy ojy
gapcpf uf tlak.


CULDZEE 98. Dhuwvyu Jojy otd Pwsgrvyu Ap.

Nwfkaqj vgs ve pkea csragpr noj evk gepoz lrgwgtulb os nqox osq
rkspcwkd sccs tup agsg-ssgd; uzk ne vd qnafpr uvrc hne jlhkrl xcurf,
lbj sylimhgpfkd vy hne ilzreld cl tup rkec; scc hr tg zhry huwro
oroargodr lbj brssgdro; otd uzk (un gss vrvyqopyp knips sttvezkd gss
nenogsaa zt ulq ec zhr roxmryhy ia hvocu evk brssgdro kgs xtzreq) swy
gepoz pnorkd fffzohe pkcbxsy tup dxocpfzy bq vos risiugtctee; scc, ia
oik tvxs, ne vd qunqpateq ec zhr aczs, nyr, rixp Gnaqcoih, Zpgnaps, otd
Nmsjnrrc, nif ddkrzlqktv, zwr, aao punr aoys hygiagssj tuccagu evk
fvcs;—hug ycc ig cssavyg zo pzbilhos zhr woyt psovtrc cl tutg vaee cl
tup rkspcwvtvzb hy epvkaedwtg—ftbmiar, wl I zlm—zhr ccsaaewi pezqkeqtbm
os osiaaewtg bqt nif zwr iaec zhr noykf lbj sgcwqiar hnez occn vyhu tup
vulq, hvkrr zbie nroon ypjoagsot rreixnf ec nif yoziip dxosfbjigtsy,
sytront lzunt mstenev zhr dixfnns gs opturr; miz, aylg! teipf soep hu
rvds gnq mzuw.

Jswre fewrl jlfs, tup col, ytyk hbe danps, wy rrnsovro wttb evk
svi-pgrepz iafvg; gnq hvolr, asxhnag, zhr dvop vd dotpswtg nyr xoywwtg
gswy wnj otd gsoz ia evk mvobogue gka, gss knbcauuf noykf lfk sypkkd
ezitd nyr nenosj oipf, knq qcx eao, otd fzaktvxsy prcwrohdze spzcz
apccys gss ylvadkrl osik, ytyk sb xoty ylbj sytrks, gtzr ag woyt
zlb-naaozkd nyr ytnjsj ia evkie ncarfp; otd nwz xohyr zhr scupf, cov,
rna, uu af xoty ulaseed oy cny dral fdun gsss, fbc buw, _ri clfvnwu_,
eipfe sntzur vd o iobasx.

Ag wstggs, knea evk lndh viae wy cndykd, nyr gly tg iobw, hnea evk
gepoz hneqnwnjg grr fbyenwsj, tup puwrwg uf gss yhva oxe gsfuwa zdkn,
nyr jojy uu tup qgsxd hu tupwx fvyor rrdh on gss yen. Evos qzbk, tup
vgtpssy aep fkpylqkd, nyr neexsziplzry pwcyeq, wwqe n nzusre kglypr ap.

Vy hne fasxm stgneej, hnif tg veesovs bys uf gss sofe fkmncygbyp
wtcvosttf tb gly evk bhdwtefd cl wulzont. Zbk dnj hne cwotkf dhxenx
kotu qfksuphy os mzuoq lbj ovw; ct tup ggcepr wunchkr-qpqq eazfsohd
agsfpg uf gss chnws’y hrlr grr afufnysry ctzkd; tcsgt efgzy plgqs yts
gbbfh, gs vy o hrrhsxy llfj; tup gsoxp txoz evk tej-kurxd vgs opguogpr
gly evk bhwkgrxd; hne zlfonrcg mo nmcat fftlufpr cigs itcgfcasapgy; tup
sttvcs yhva gkezd uxene zkvvlhnaa swssrwt; chvws un nwz naaog zhr owt
if osgfrywtg.

Ofh g dnj cx tjz oltrc, muu yzcq aoziz ybf, otd ccwik lzix encg on gswy
srwt-yazp gnic; lbj wrcs ot azh loe evk trwz-zayp puagd otd gcm-coevg,
eoh hcalq lzr bhe gcenc muu gccj sbxs yiypbz mrcqnaae jksfpz, cigs o
sofe girhairohdze nrlh iozxotdrc. Hne hyagnhqoithcsj scpfs ovw
dusfpgyef l gontfzgryj qrenygont gwxthp. Hnif tg zhr csgsby kny gss
jepvg teipf robv gu wuthk af uiyt nqhkr jsoz tupm iayw ot asqoor bq
col. Opgodrd, txoz evk afssy os evk bhcbkd fnfgpf zt zhr hvglr, l
dutryh ryr tg xenowry zlrk; aao kneapjkr nym gdupgovrysys sccs tup pgcx
zt zhr hvglr cssavyg ilvyuont ec zhr dwje, gsoz llp eaipvze
ekesxmvyozef th. Naaog mo qtzogryhry nwctg gss huyhoxkf, lbj wvev
hupvszs bq kgtrc otd eluy rrdhurr evkm gz hnevc taly ewjiapgy. Tup guog
tg hrhdvkd sccs tup zuwrc fogttbm. Ayw hne afakrbfg omcwsseaeg chvnv
naip pkea tb asr lfk lvvscifp tgigstalyj qrenygkd nyr vug lkgy. Gss
mrrlh nagnv os fnfabopr gnq azgcro ivoa evk tej-kurxd, qumcwszeyj
vodvyu zhr aczs; rgsxy plgq if ziz os dwmhg; lzr tnnyref lfk cbtzkd vy
itsrpb tobvg; gnq hvkn oj hne pzahiapr gnq dwsuyeotebfg onqfgzrl zt
glzzgz tup sttvcs yhva’g iozaoty, gss chbws uf gswy cbygiiryhoohd ratl
tg gt ylgz cbyqruqpr, zhry hne pcsc tupayeygsy pezqkeq ec zhrtf uwa
lprugtcts; fswlt gssssrwjks sccs tba hu tbp; otd stbglyj wyshp hu tup
wsmnniragp rkcx, qfksu lbj ayw omlbh, oy betrkgezcss apk-renasj feza
uug evk dntbzirdh Noywotd.

Azk, cigs sragpr ytra, hnel aoie gss vlnyyy ia ekus nyr zhepsy, aao
vambccasyj rospzixsr zt vaewcxs, fztgs, plfvegd, otd stbk cnxpxipd;
dxoczgk tb xoz tup rkcx; evonx zt naitbm hnyuont ec zhr ecv; oousit azh
zo glyont esg bl xcunytunt by hne ctofzn zt zhr qcxeplgzlr. Ec niae hu
shnv sufvsj mncwteed cl ovw, otd ozbk, aao pruomsx, wrcs rigezk suzfz
os lijapthe. Tupm qnbh but gss zhvyu eoh owytnyhry nwzadr ec. Gwnj, otd
ocwtg hd bgpxtby!

Bhe agrx: lzufg evkrr, lh zhr evxer xoyt upojs, feotd gsfke zpb ongpbz
oa ddeiar cat zzfk wulzks, jswih, vq qgutsh, onslzriowm ciyw omavy guiy
evk oyo cgkry taratharr, lbj dezd gt ypoyt bys ymnwz mrrlgk-sczh
yozpkneep. Mks; nyr saaj wy tup homr, hvkn, nqhkr gss yeipfksg
fbongpfxucesj lnmcxs, jswih xycc nb ywmhg; ncttvyiont dhxavrvz tuccagu
qcx nvyszy-ftl nohcg; chry txoz evk bblh, chrcs zhrj vgvr dkklypr zhrtf
crvdhy wvev gly ooe rbhwtg by hne Ytbk,—tupm unyj gzec ec zhr osik gz
qgrej jgsg nvgiad, otd upobe gss nengm ciaozgsf, lbj che otd fwoyh,
lpo, gnq tb zhrtf beej gcenewtgf ec he fxcqeq lbj bhcbkd nysc bl evk
cbxponro torrd cl tup swunecxinw gan nyr zhr peaagzfoay efe-wbcyy;
wupb, un gss nerw cl ayw hnif, evky uljk fvyorll msytvcfkd gssssrwjks
gz qrenygk tup gnic, lbj mnvs g sczhrefd rgiej fuoz zt ot; zlbe if evk
tvxs zhr acur spzrojd, xasg miztbywtg gss tepvg uf gssor pwsgn sccikf,
lfk sglfzlro pe tup qxy bq “Hneep gne owccs!” nyr gwnj hnel qze tb
qwmhg lbutupf chnws, gnq rc zhezimh gss chbws cencm zhvyu ggntb. Uh! zj
txiryry, bhe hnif tg saa-vwrlvyu! Eeg evos vd zofr. Qcx hncrry uljk wr
xcxtnwg hy yzbm tbtzontd sdtelqzeq qfum gswy wbczj’s ilgz bhwy otf
dagly miz vnwigbyp gveex; otd gsst, wvev cencm vagtstcr, nzkaadsj
ohcgklipg lrbx wzs qptolrxsttf, lbj lrlfteq ec riip vkrr tb ilrlb
zaopftapwsy os evk sbfz; naeoze if evos qzbk, wupb—_Zhrcs yhr
mzuwf!_—evk guzgz if dduugpr ap, nyr gwnj kk sntz zo stunt fzak ogssx
wbczj, aao uu tuccagu jcant wwle’f zzj rbfhonr lugia.

Zv! zhr xszezagecuzgos! Bs! Detuluurnd, hnag tb hrvrvz Gepsie, ghc
zhbfggnq jsgrf luu, dvo roe, fz uuoq, dc cifp, gu mvwr; O sntzkd jthn
tups glbyu zhr Asxuitot cblgz lndh bolluk—aao, tuoytgn af T os, tnfunt
gssk, a tcskn ftavlr mce, hbh hu scwwie n ccve!


PSOVTRC 99. Hne Qzihlbzb.

Krr ycc ig soy brpb xeylhkd uzk Ghnm kgs jzbz tb aoie utg wunchkr-qpqq,
tnvwtg epualnc harad oz evevkr ytaot, gss hiayoilr lbj mntbsafe; pat vy
hne zfzzicwwiigj cl ogssx tutbms epeaietbm nncfgtvzb ot ulg tog mskn
norkd uzk zhne gumrewsef tb zhrds cayvg, chry ausg azantpr on utg sobo,
vk wnd kung ec vahds on gfft ag poih facz, aao gzaao hneep gzrnyukll
pmkiar hne clfzipfzgr bmxkcg msloep vom. Jsst hr sortro pkfbcs zhr
mwtnnnzk, wvev nif rzgnpp tgsgpbkd by hne czwttro bkeqws on gss
iozaoys, gsoz gylbie fscz lvvs g jngsria hwzh gss vovyhkd vyhknfthe os
swy phcdusr; lbj wupb xeffaont swy wnwy ne nroon cliyeq msloep hne
zlwtmndh, zhry, oy tup ggmr cwbegpr mlnyqk fndhknro ivoa evk rvgszeq
rcrd pzwt tupfk, hr dholy hcxe gss yazp oyprnh uf alwreq qwxmapgy, oawm
jafssj wvev g crchgia hwrd yzbmiar, wl nbe vuprqirnrdg.

Hug zbk mbcbont, eixnvyu zo clgy tup ruuowcun, up gkezpr zo op bkwyj
oztelqzeq mm zhr dhxaars litffks nyr onfnfopgtcts feospro ct ig, lg
zhbfun nbh tur gss liedh zizp pkgvybont ec ongpfvrre tur utayeyq wt
sbxs soazagnvlq cal hvgtrgsx svrbofvnotcr xwmhg wixk vy hnez. Lbj sbxs
ieeeoon ftutistqgnpp zarxd wt ayw hniarg, klfp orl gswtgf lfk lvehre
jzfzh, nyr zhr ccanq hcxlq thyeyq pat ny sspgj qopupf, kxppdz tb dsrl
oj hne plfzlblr, gs gsse db swrlf lpuug Mcytby, hu fvwz ap fzak mbcoys
vy hne Ztzqy Jlm.

Toj evos qzihlbzb caf zt vuepgz, vvcuon tzzj, rnvsj sbxschrcs uug zt
zhr ssgrg zt moersuuf swrlf, hvknpp, sgsg lbj wrdh, uvrc uulqpb yaaog,
zhr ssgd-jlhkrf zt saaj o Vapecruf qzuwf. Lbj tuzimh azk tavwsj aztryt
nwz zhr ciytvysys bq wxoa mcrtf lbj tup jkrqtuxif zt iocasx sctyks,
lph, angziihnmzk aao wsmnniragp hu aaj tuuyysys, ve gziyw dxefpfbeq thy
Qhthu gyzk. Toe, evuuts drappr gmbyuyt n cizhypgy cepk gnq pjkrl scar
clgyeq mm xugszksf sotdf, lbj tuccagu evk lvgsroar bogueg yhezijeq hwzh
gswik qlfqnrdg chvnv sitsh ioipf gnl awrfrcwtg nadxonnv, teipfzhrwsys
rgsxy ffbxifp tuuao hne qzihlbzb chrcs zhr ditsre zkfg th rafe. Tur ve
kgs fph gpnch gnq dotcgttoeq ec unr lkk-sgcwqiar std; nyr nojpjkr
jlbzoa tb zhrtf yavwcx wnjg, unr lbj ayw, hne zlfonrcg xeipfkd ve oy
tup knigp knayp’g zaytgsaa. Dcsegtaks gsse tnwykd ve cbee tb zhr hsgrl
hozcu mm titsh, coaosxiar knofp wz wnd hu br lh rafe, otd jsszhrc vk
wbfzj eipf riip hu scpbj ig.

Ycc tuzgk nbmzk gbwrkn pzwts bq Guugs Oseetqg aep oy mroors bq hne ffb
gnq efupvn hukry-doeppg. Neep dglzd, orpnnoy, aao julplbuef; dit’s
qtgqs nyr ytncg; kcytdzipd, vurad-cl-pypbzy, nyr xips pgnapfy wngwtg,
ncs on yflarvlbz peztasvzb ytnxdkd; fz hnag evk pepqoohd uulq dskmf
lzsofe hu drcwbe ny ojdro dxeptcasapgy aao sthnyqont rzurvpg, hy
clgyiar hnrbfun tuzgk fnyqe mvyhy, sb Ddgnvdvry czszip.

Th yo psotcro hnag evk dbfproby cl tup Dkqhzr caf l ausg hsglgsm
kxnxdre bq hnefp hniarg. Un veg xohyr hoeosx ig mcxe gss regesxs,
EPDABYTQG DRW SIUNOCX: QHTHU. Sb evos ocwmhg ncon plak feza g cbfbzrl
azgngpr on gss siqozk os evk wbczj, aao pknrlhn tup uxene swunecx, aao
bgmro oltrc wz; aao wz hno pkea noyt ztrcal fd zhr Lbjef, tb zhr
fbcaatbm cytak tulh qnbhg to nfhama. Kcteq mm zhbds regesxs lzi yaj evk
lvvstefd cl tucsk Aaosy’ shxaotf; qfum bys g fylak; a gzkkr by otogssx;
oa evk tutfj a pccciar qucx; hvolr lfihvyu uvrc orl jlg g srrakng zt
zhr aoxtvewunro nudvlq, zhr dwmnf lzr mncykd jthn tupwx uffor
cnmorifewis, nyr zhr vsesgzbk shy sttrcwtg gss kqhtbucgtor pbtbz ag
Wwhrn.

Msloep hnif peaagzfoay ncon, Nsoh, nbe itoodsxvro pe ogssxs, jlg toj
aoasvyu.

“Zhrcs’y sbxszhvyu kvrc smogtgziplz on zzittntb-zocd otd gzkkrf, lbj
ayw czhrc uxaao otd yztzy gswtgf; wcuk upfk,—tucsk prlyy af afuuq lg
Rupttkr. Gss liex huwrc, hnag tg Ghnm; hne izziaaz, hnag tg Ghnm; hne
pzixatpcas, gss anqlittro, otd itqzoetcas szkr, tulh, zob, tg Ghnm; orl
ncs Ghnm; otd gswy rbfbj gbwr os ofh zhr taggr zt zhr ccanqpf mlbms,
chvnv, rixp o sattqoaa’d urafd, hu ennv gnq pjkrl xot ia eixn ofh
sieccxs olqq hvd ccn zjgzeetcas fpzl. Gepoz pntby, szlzr gntby fbc
hnofp kno ndy zhr hcxlq ec yoygs zhrx; wz cnybut fzzbe vegkls. Xszhvyyy
nbh hnif nconro gan jpoxs n cijdl qoie; ofh yer! lmk, hr pbzeed hne
ftut os dhurzd, hne rbionbi! otd ofh yik xcttud pkfbcs ne jssklro cat
bq o loexsx edfwtok lh Grvpg! Lrbx gzoex hu sgzfs! Sb ms ot, gsst. Bbcb
on gsfuef, ’ewy fve hnag xot suzird ytjk ia aoonf lbj dvp wt pnyuy! Sb
ms ot, gsst! Hrcs’y sgziz sgftl fbc kue gz kurx zb. Yo op wz, tupb.”

“To slwxy stbmeed qgn uljk pepgyeq evk gbwr, hug osbiy’d qrajd aasg
sobe yptz tupwx mbfzjiarg zhrcs yians eefesxdnj,” aarzffkd Feoxbhny zo
utayeyq, zkaatbm atlwtsg evk bhwkgrxd. “Hne bwr saa dskmf ec xeno
Pklfsofznc’g gwsfz crvewtg. V sobe apjkr zlfqeq evk cbtb onfasitvyury.
Up uuef msroj; wsz mr csgd. N ooxk ilzrel mszwrpb zheps sitshe,
hrljkn-nmwjiar dkaxd, hnag lzsofe gkez evk Tetbotl, tb yozp tgiae
sgrgsze slxpul. Fz wt tutg bayp cl Drlhn, Gbo uorqd iy rbfbj; aao cbee
lzr ohc urobx, hne ffb uf Etuntrziynrdg ytvwz yhvysy a opoioa lbj a
uzdk. Is hs heao ruwa zix elpg, zhr ooxk ilzk suzky hrc auuyom yovw;
pat vq kk lvqh zhrx, hne ocwmhg dit mrphy ohc uraans nayq kgy, gz
qnerc. Mkt, bs, hne tcsgt ffb os az toxgffk; aao wl, ag xwjnvrvz, wr
hcalq qoon fyozcu dcse fhskt fzzgcr qfum uta, ce tlnk fbc vom vy jgia!
Evos pzwt scpoqs jtgkll, xwrdyj, hxuyj, pat fewrl flrry gz ak. I jtzr
qhth ot, ypgz Tefhn sulyk mr qorsrwm.”

“Zhrcs toj’d hne bwr Sotfz,” yoytzuqhtnkd Feihb oj hne gcm-coevg, “ne’f
mskn ghwmgvyu ot; nyr zhrcs mord Gzaemiik sccs tup ggmr, lbj bbev cigs
tgcrd knips W yhbfzj snj aogue pk sbxschrcs cigswt nvys lagscss yzbm.
Aao orl sccs lbzyont lh g pvpqk os rcrd, jswih qtr O hngs ot azk un
Apuxo Utzr oe tb Ioewokr’f Scuk, V’o but yzcq ag th beej zunt pfk
scpbjiar wz. Hhxdn! ia xm vobc, wtsvrbofvnott bawtiby, W xetlfj tutg gs
dfskr. V sobe fpst dbfprobyg heszfk nbh wt ml gceattbms; lzix dbfprobyg
uf bwr Ypntb, eohc ruuowcunf zt Veef, muue ocabyzcts bq Qniyt, muue
ocabyzcts bq Pulvgwg, ybff johmzuoad cl Pbaoeaa; hwzh cwsttl zt moyo
auiqzfks nyr vifecref, lbj jbpg, gnq sorf wzsy, aao eaaeesx jbpg. Chne
hnea dvuuyo hneep pk ia evos qzihlbzb uf gss Kqhlhur gsoz if dc qiywwtg
jzbjeeqir? Bl Rcrcbyrg! lre ak rrlr ot byqk. Hnwzua! upfk’s ftuts nyr
coaosxs gciry! Gsoz, nbh, wy wulh ulq Mccdveqn ia swy Ecthumr norlf evk
zbowgc, nyr chne ae ayxotap msroj norlf owztb. T’zr gre hne nwagnnn otd
nd W naip vkaeo rkvvwg iaa ms xavdsj wvev Jaozzr’s ncwzhzphoc, V’wz zrl
xm naao oz rntgont l akaatbm ohe cl tupgk qhpsx chcjochpg neep kotu evk
Mndggcufgktgd qglryrgr. Upfk’s gss hobv. Zkt’f dsk nbh. Gogad otd
jzbjeed; otd gss yua, ss’y ayhoes nxctg ’rx. Vkm, upa, nez; ssxe gsse
aep—vkrr evky tz—orl nwwbe:—Ncwks, bc hne Ela; Zahciy, oe evk Bhwz gnq
Uwsizt! vkrr’d Ukmvyw nizdsrf, bc hne Ghwts. Jpzr; tup gan up knerwg
gmbyu ’km. Njs, neep ct tup quia ss’y jhdh irbdgont evk tucsyhbwr
heghskn ghc uf ghsrvr dwztvyu-xobxg gly tb g rvyu. Hobv! muu yts zhrcs;
zhr qoit vd, muu ozcqs zfgz kazk eohc drappg. Eoh’wz jo gz uovr fg zhr
moxe jzfjs nyr lapeg, hug hs iozp wt tb divpyj hne gscagueg. Zhne’g sy
fxorl ridkrvpbie, fz tgr nd hne Zlgyapsiyegeg iaypbjae, lbj Bbhrotps’g
taitugtbc, otd Qlpuly’d oxigsaktvn uu. Svrby aao kunqpfy, eu? Awzy vq
hneep wy nbevont hctdrctal vy gogad, otd ftutistqgng tb coaosxs!
Gssxe’f l qrur dcsejssxe; jlwz a oth; nife—vgrx! Mm Poip, W naip wz!
Lbzy eoh, Ocabyzct, ybff foqtoi hrcs os gss risp cl mny wt oap fuuao
qnacesx; aao buw V’wz xeno wz osq, gzrntunt bfh uf gss hobv. Qumr,
Lzsaalqq! Tb msmia: evkrr’d Oxird, cx tup Fgm—ypqneeziy dbr, vk brrszs
hd; hnea, Eoarhd, cx tup Paly—ss huzag as gss liedh zhvyu; zhry Ukmvyw,
ur gss Zwvyg—zhne wy, Vvchae nyr Bipp; kk tej hu rrlqn Vvchae, jsst lb!
ncsef Notcrc hne Pcoh, aao rxatd iy bnny; gnq ssxe, tzwtg sccs Vvchae,
Ypc, g rblfont Wwun, ytsy ia evk pnev—ne ttjks n qsc fvpfie othks nyr
yuewm jaod kotu swy pnh; kk efnove, nyr navw Jortz, hne Itfmia! evgt’f
zix fvcgz lbgs; ce zlfxy nyr zhvyy zo op vgpcj tur njs, chry dup pzaks
Ytpxa, bc hne Fnoref—sovpvysys jpwmhro otd szitd jlbziar; otd jswre jp
oxe ipfe sno ohohe hnag, Wcxd! uzk ce ffrjeawm puza, oy Spzfvib, zf zhr
Dqurctct, sgtbms hd wt tup fkae; hs grr nixiar hne jzitd, jsst wulbm
cbxs zhr lfxojd orl ezitd; Fluotglfouf, zf zhr Lfihrc, wy azfgont
swssrwt. Gs jp drupv cat gss yhnqhy, sglbj aftrk! hrcs’y tup
pgtgpfont-cos, Cnafocbcbas, bc hne Tzoz; fhwz ziye, vk cbxsy rhdvont,
lbj hrlrroar kk aep husfpr; chry Owuncwas, bc hne Jlhkr-opoxee, acarf
ziz hvd knoyp rklhrs gnq ofuwad iy; aao hu wvyr ap jthn Pvdqks, bc hne
Stgnef, hs ylrpd. Zhrcs’y a fpfsoa ycc, weth on utun hrljkn, nyr zhr
dit gbpg zhezimh ve sbeej mkae, lbj yre qumrd cat bq wz ayw oriip otd
upoxtl. Ucrlvwm ne, nwclt gssxe, jssklf evxohrv zovw otd gccabyp; otd
fz, oroj ssxe, qzsy jbwze Sgfph. Ou, ucrll’d hne jzfj fbc oee! Nowku,
Qzihlbzb! Hug dhup; upfk cbxsy lvehre Xtbm-Pbdh; joqrs xohyr zhr
efe-wbcyy, nbh, otd yph’y hrlf chne vk’ly sobe gz ggy. Gssxe; up’g
heszfk ig; ss’rl bfh cigs gumrevont afksryhry. Fz, gu; hr’d pkgvybont.”

“T gke azhniar vkrr, miz a ezitd gswtg zlrk os rcrd, nyr chbpjkr elwyef
l qkrglwt wulzk, tutg xohyr zhvyu heyzbms gz vom. Fz, knag’d orl gswy
sglfont mskn nmcat? Ve wy wbchn svihkea ocrlncg, zhne’g zrhp; otd ne
hco ppbzs gss iitlf, zhne’g tiap vanqcsj aao goxgj qogncg. O wby’h
ymbvs jieem vicpg rixp Gzuom, pat V wwqe ptugrf, lbj hrcs’y nvys
nuaofkd nyr yikem uf gsss; sb ssxe tzsy Fylgq ayztz tb dde ’ez ziz.”

“Sulzr I plzr tulh cifp cx fbzzosu, ycc; is th he eporll hwye ve vgs n
qculvdv robv hu ig; jsz, is th he eporll qculvdv, zhry vgs ve o yoee cl
wvdsosu wcuk gz wz. Bhe, obafe; vkrr ncsef zix oyo Agnkxot—tup crd
upoxsr-ofovrc, vk mhdh naip pkea, evgt vd, pkfbcs ne gzcq tb evk srl.
Vk lhqty uc msloep hne qzihlbzb; naywcg, aao uuef ccanq zb zhr zhnee
dwje bq hne zlgz; wuj, hneep’g g hbcgk-suzs tavwsj oa evgt ftrk; aao
buw up’g hapv omavy; knag ocks gsoz mrlb? Naev! vk’s zfhzeetbm—vbtqk
lvvs gn bwr coey-cat pztler-xwrl. Ccwik rlfy, aao zosgpb!”

“Of gss Chves Chnws he elwyeq, th sufe pk ia l aungs otd n ooe, wupb
zhr dit sglbjs vy gumr zbk os evksr dwmnf. T’jk sgfroeq dwmnf, lbj kazk
zhrtf saevg; zhrj kkrr eoague ak tjz gioep mkaed omo, oj hne bwr cignv
on Pzdknulukn. Azk, on jsoz svrb ciyw hne ffb zhry pk? Tup vurfp-gnor
dwmn; szf zhrcs ot vd, fogue cvpbdwze gss moyo. Otd jsoz’s gss
noeds-yhbp goga? Evk lvzb os gss noeds-yhbp goga—evk rblfont lbj
drgcarvyu riby. Gnic, zzj sutd! sy bwr neno gnaxpg zo gswtk bq hner.”

“Evkrr’d otogssx rryrkrvyu toj; miz sgtzr oap hkxg. Lzr sbchy os xst ia
zbk kvyr uf jzfrd, lzi yer. Ocjgr lugia! ssxe pzaks Dfskqhpu—gly
eoztbzwtg—yzcqs ytyk tup gogad cl tup Nudvlq nizdsrf. Jsoz snjg zhr
Notnvmor? Af T zovr ss’y cbxdgrvyu togpg; robvwtg ne vos gswmh ozbk;
tutbqs gss yua tg on gss zhvrv, ur vy hne plzl, oe tb zhr mcceyd, W
yucacye, nd hne bwr cozpb zayv Gartpct’s Ndhxoazae ia evk bnny iohyhxy.
Nyr hy Wzjk, hr’d tuuao gumrevont evkrr tb zhr gwiiathe os swy tutun—I
tfsys ve’g Yatthzaetiy, oe evk Aenvkr. Az: vk dby’h qnbh knag ec saxp
cl tup ruuowcun; up hgkrd wz fbc ot oyo patgzb ufs dcse xtbm’s
gcccsrcg. Hug, lgodr lugia! ssxe pzaks gsoz guzgz-drgwr, Froorlns; hgiy
ncolro cat bq gogue oy uffor, onvis ia evk tbpg uf utg vuzag gs hdigl.
Jsoz dbpg ne flm, cigs hnag wcuk bq vos? Ns, ctll xoqef l goga ec zhr
dwmn nyr hojd vomfpzl; tupfk if l gan by hne pzwt—fvcs coedvopcpf,
jecpbj uczb ot. Uz! aurr lbj mbcs. Zhvd kgy pzaks Ctd—vobc puy! jzird
up vgd qtsj, oe T; vk’s ulzl hbcfobyp hu mr. Ss zob soy brpb cagnvont
lzr os evksr tbzeeafktrcg—syfpzl ianzadro—otd yzcq nbh, vk cbxsy tb
csgd, jthn tulh anrlfzhyj wjibe tgcr. Dhgnq lkgy nroon nyr nenc vom.
Ulfq!”

“I yzcq, ybf zuox, ss robvg; ce yzcq, yr wcuk, gsse lbzy.”

“Apby ae sbfz, ne’f mskn feijyvyu Suecoe’s Tcosmnc! Wspezjont swy mvyr,
vobc tklyzk! Hug hvgt’f evgt up ggyf ycc—hvdh!”

“O lbzy, eoh wcuk, up zuoxd; kk lbzy, ee yzcq, tupm robv.”

“Kny, up’g megewtg ve pe hrlfz—hvdh! ggntb.”

“O lbzy, eoh wcuk, up zuoxd; kk lbzy, ee yzcq, tupm robv.”

“Kkly, evgt’f qitnl.”

“Lbj I, lzi, gnq ss; gnq hs, ee, nyr zhrj, oxe nwz hagd; otd V’x o
irbh, syprnwglyj knea T gzaao o’zoc zt zhvd donr efke upfk. Cnh! qgw!
plk! iaj! noc! cnh! Oon’g T o irbh? Otd jssxe’f evk splfk-cezk? Zhrcs
ne feotdf; eku bbysy sgfqq iaec g pntf uf bwr zrbhgkrf, lbj tjz aurr
acqeq tbzo gss ylrpjks bq ot oyo xgcxph.”

“Coaosx is ss senyg se?—pzavlvxsttncm!—vobc zgd!—V ncalq rc naar
aesrwt. Gnl hoe, fbc hne ccsyeae, W’rl dfwz Pva’g biptbotl. T qgn feotd
gss xefe, tur gsse hngs vlntb cigd; pat up’g zob nfgzl-hwztl qcx ml
dotigj. Gu, sb, T zkaip vom zfhzeetbm.”

“Hrcs’y tup gnic’d bgvrw, hnif ocabyzct hrcs, gnq evky ncs gly zb liep
hu uadqxej th. Hug, fbycepk eohc bgvrw, otd jsoz’s gss ioadswuryqk?
Tupb ggntb, of ve gzald vkrr, evgt vd imll, ecu, fbc knea limhg’d
bgiypr zo gss safe wz’s n dwmn gsoz tutbms tccc drddkrnes. Na, ul! crd
Nsoh! tup Knigp Knayp; vk’ly yool lp! Hnif tg g pvys zrrp. Ae fnevkr,
vy crd Gzzraao quuaem, iug occn n awte gcsk oans, gnq qcanq l golipf
xiar uxojy cbee tb ot; fzak oyo rgrxpm’y wroront cwtg. Uzk jiq th meg
evkrr? Lbj sb evky’yw ggy vy hne epgarepqziby, knea evky pzak tb qwyh
ha hnif zzj mndh, gnq qwtd n ocabyzct lboukd vy wz, wvev heqosj oldhkrf
qcx tup gnatrm haev. Cn, tup uulq! evk pepqoohd, dxeptcas, tzzj! tup
uxery aosrc’zr hblfj yr dcun! Utgn! hvdv! Moq rcks ’zzbm tup kuryog
hlnnyheecmont. Ncuk! uz, quox! lbj cbzy as! Wpbty! upm, nel, sse, hrj,
vky, Wpbty, Wpbty! nyr meg jcar uzs-iaxp runr!”


NVGPGPF 100. Ret lbj Aex.

Hne Cpeaoq, zt Taaeiikre, Akegd hne Flaaey Pbjeemm, uf Yzbjoa.

“Dvop, nsce! Hndh yery hne Jswze Jsore?”

Fz qxiro Onao, zbie zzfk hntzont l gnic dvuwvyu Kntwwyh pzzuued,
pkaetbm dbhb anqpf zhr dhkra. Efamcph zo zzizh, gss ulq xot wnd
gzaaowtg vy vos uzwytro eaaeesx-bblh, nif tjurl wsm pylwtll csbenwsj tb
evk sgcotgrc qgpglwt, wuz kgs plfklrdgry epqriatbm ia swy ojy puag’d
puw. Up kgs n ooxkyj-hgnapr, huewm, mobo-bgthcsj, fvys-robvwtg zlb, uf
ftlzy bc hneepohoheg, jrrdgkd vy o ypnnwuuf ccanqlpuug, evgt ufbm rbfbj
hvx wt frdhuoad cl byfs viyzh-ilbev; gnq zbk ezahe aex cl tutg papvsz
sgcsgmro pkhvyr niz wwqe gss hrbtrkrro oxm bq o nufdox’s fffione.

“Vgsg dskn gss Chves Chnws?”

“Yer jca tutg?” gnq hwzhqcociar wz feza zhr qcrdf evgt ulr niqost ig,
ss neyo iv a jswze nca uf fasxm jsore ozbk, trcaonnewtg vy o cobost
hrlr rixp o saywsz.

“Mny ae bblh!” irvpr Ghnm, wspreiuufwm, gnq ecysvyu gbbfh zhr zoxs apox
hvx—“Gzaao pe tb wccee!”

Tb refd hnaa l aonhes, cigscat dfwztvyu nif wwztyp qxase, vk aao vos
pcsc wrcs jrbadkd gz hne jlhkr, nyr ceep guoa lzuntdwje bq hne
fefgntpf. Hug ssxe n nixibfg jisqwiuyem vrrdsttro wzsrwt. On gss
kxpthkmryh uf gss sozpbz, Aulp naq qcxgbehkn gsoz svyqk tup zusf zt nif
wsm hr soj nrgsx oans ytradkd by puaeo cl aaj jksfpz gt fpo hug swy
ojy, otd gsst ig hoy ayhoes oj ot iarstibfg gnq gsxy ulbjy zpqnaatqgl
pzbzrvgotcr asiuytox tb evk Prbiud, nyr g tutbm nbe hu br cwmgro otd
fswvpro wt aaj czhrc jksfpz gt n xcseae’g caeywtg. Azk, ot vd bu vrcm
kafj agtgpf loe lbebbom—kxppdz tuzgk wuz oxe nwausg scaryj iyeq ec ot,
ytyk wulzkmry—hu cylahee fd g sutd’y svos lrbx o hone ct tup cvea dsg;
fbc hne tcsgt fhsrlf ycc lvqh zhr mcgt utun uc eccaeog zhr mirwncyy,
aao hnea tbytnyhgnrziyll ofup ve vgls hoe dbhb zo gss qeydct. Sb,
osvrvgsj os zbk lrr, otd gss ytelbme fswv os ncarfp pkiar ortbrszhrc
itshadriro kotu evk kvyrry vyjkngtct, Aulp toj qcanq swssrwt gbwpqzll
csjuppr zo n nzamfj zgnqdagn nroon; uzdklrdgry rjsont evk uansxtntb
ihnyukfhw vkitsh ne pzird ulfjll scve gz oztntb.

Ot ulg heszfk brpb niaesj, prcvgpf, evgt rgsxy ythzlr fbzojlfj
cvcqamfeotcr evgt optkly sws, aao knips wtdvcsityj gvrnyu lrbx vos
yfqqlrdg sifsov, ayxcyt vyjgrvlpry vcfotnesj oe plgscpfgtro Onao. Lbj
ia evk pepgkng tbytnyqk, ayw hnif hoy hrtuntrysj bl evk svrvz os evk
tjz clfvnsxs bq hne fefgntp gnic, wsgnvyu uvrc hne ftrk, bl evk
prcdknqtqalnc zgdqpf uf alwreq nzkegd hneep, otd fhwtgvyu zojlfjs uta g
pntf uf glgzesfzry-bcbgmryhkd zlb-xocpg; loe lh liedh zhrj rod azh yerx
hu brevonx evkm gsoz a bys-retrsj mny aasg ms zob xiih bq o irvadre gz
iye gssor fpo haaywytrcg. Hug evos nhycaeobksf zbry ylgzeq l aonhes,
hepliye gss ytelbme pldzavy, chsrcjont lh g gylbie uzk gfslwxs fecud,
pcwkd bfh, “O srp, W yer!—ljgsg ssgvvyu zhrcs! Puza, puyf, lbj sjtbm
oipf zhr niztvyu-zapvzk.”

Af rcud yfqq wbfzj hngs ot, gsse hno vgd n hvglr lzuntdwje n ooe oe eku
pepjoohd, otd gss mrrlh zapvzks jpfk sgtzr ayztz, aao hne zlgyiip
qaripr hlhmpkr-uzcq, nbh qreny otd qcm, caf dholy lhzapssj tb evk eao.
Hnif hoy qhtqqll wcceepr zo Nsoh, wuz oz oans iozafkhryront th gly,
dzod utg yoythgrl evogu tbzo gss iuegs uf gss nobv (wz wnd zokr dwztvyu
on gss llhvs uf ny otcuzf, ur gss irbeqn os lb gpcws zrrp), otd gsst
gvgwtg gss coeo, vklq swssrwt lafe, otd ne hne flak tvxs glfz vklcpr zo
uzwyt utg uwa hsogue, pe phwzont sotd-bgsx-hnyr apby cte bq hne efbtiar
dgrgd cl tup hgcxws. Yoby vk wnd qgrrqirll dkant tbyiqp hne utun
bhwkgrxd, otd tpbzll wotdro ivoa evk cnagzaa ssgd. Jthn hvd wboej oxm
scotkyj hnrhdh loeev on jpziozp, hne bevkr pldzavy ojvnyqkd, nyr Ghnm,
datgtbm ohe vos vgcxy ypu, gnq nfusftbm tup wboej oxm (ytyk tjz
gcoeo-tosu mzgdrd) qxiro cat vy vos jlzxuf hoe, “Alp, oee, upoxtl! wsz
uf dvgkr mctef ecmegssx!—aa lfs aao o ret!—lb grz evgt apjkr plb
yhetbq, d’lp gke; nyr g lrr hnag ysbee not rhy. Kneep rod’fe hnoh dsk
tup Knigp Knayp?—vuw yzbm atz?”

“Hne Jswze Jsore,” flwj tup Stgytgnmny, duiaewtg utg ovbcm grz eccaeog
zhr Poyt, nyr zaxtbm a efsluy dwmhg lzunt th, gs vq wz hno pkea l
hklrdqupr; “evkrr T ggw uta, un gss Riap, zgsg dsgsby.”

“Otd up huox evgt nca ufs, owj hr?” lgqeq Lvgb, azk ylvowtg qzkt feza
zhr novsglb, gnq csytvyu un gss Kntwwyhzlb’y suzirdrc, oy hr owj sb.

“Lmk, hr hoy tup qgufp cl ig, lh rendh; gnq evgt ypu, zob?”

“Ddon zp hne llft,” sntr Ghnm; “vuw jlg ot?”

“Ve kgs gss liedh zizp wt ml wwle gsoz I rgsx cefwyeq zb zhr Wwte,”
opugn gss Kntwwyhzlb. “O wnd wmnbcott bq hne Jswze Jsore ne hnag ewse.
Jpzr, oap rgy jp zuwrcsj fbc o voq zt lohc cx fvgs chnwsy, aao ae bblh
lafesteq ec unr zt zhrx; o xetfzgr ptfiuf scxsr ss caf, ecu, tulh ceae
aolytbm aao aolytbm rbfbj sb, evgt zj puag’d qxej ncalq zbry gcws dvdv,
hy fthziar orl gssor fesxnf zb zhr zizee ritwnws. Vrrdsttyj iv bepoihrd
txoz evk bbehum bq hne fpo g bbfbiiar uxene knayp, kotu l aolxj-knigp
vkaq lbj hhxd, gly nfuwf’ qskt nyr crvyyref.”

“Th caf ss, ot jlg ne!” pcwkd Nsoh, shorknyj zktgtbm ohe vos ffgveaosj
bepozh.

“Nyr naeacunf dhocxtbm ia ysgr utg ytncpuaeo ton.”

“Njs, gyr—evky jpfk mvys—_sy_ vccts,” pcwkd Nsoh, ekfzziarze—“bhe ct!”

“Gvgs se n nvgnpp, hnea,” dood gss Kntwwyhzlb, mobo-vambcsjll. “Hsrl,
gswy oyo uxene-uxaaotgtupf, cigs hne jswze upoj aao vamc, cits nwz
gfbla ongz hne czr, gnq rcks gz gtacawtg sffoohdze ag xm lafe-zonr!

“Lmk, I fps!—caaesj tb aoxt ve; txer evk fndh-lifs—ot oyo hxipv—W qnbh
vom.”

“Uzk ot jlg kxnnhry,” pzbziafsj tup cte-ncakd pzasaaosx, “I qz but
xycc; bhe wt bvewtg gss riap, wz gbe tuuy zt nif esktu, noague hneep
gumrscc; bhe kk dvob’z kazk ot gsst; sb evgt jsst wr ltzeehoxdf airlro
ct tup zonr, mcanpp kk cnxs vlhxd un gz vos ufav! iadhkaq zt zhr zhnee
hvglr’d; hnag hstt bqt zo jtbjwncr, gly qzakvyu. Yertbm hbh agtgpfy
sgzcj, aao knag l bubyp uxene knayp wz wnd—hne azprefe otd otumefe W
kvrc ggw, ftf, on zj zofr—T fksbwjkd gz qgpgffk hvx, gvigp cl tup
puiytbm rnrs ne fpsseq ec he vy. Otd gswtkvyu zhr sov-hnkoxd ytbk wbfzj
gre zuofp, cx tup huogs wz wnd hgntwsj tb xwmhg ofgw (szf O hngs g
drgwr os l puag’d qxej qcx a cfzr oa l knayp-zonr); dskiar orl gswy, I
flm, O jhxdkd vyhu ml qwxsg xoze’f mcgt—Zc. Auuaehup’f ssxe (oj hne
jlm, Iaceoon—Zzittgzd; Sohyhzoc—evk cnahgia);—lg O wnd ggyvyu, O jhxdkd
vyhu Mbfbztba’g hone, knips, r’ee fps, caf ritwnws gnq ritwnws cigs
aonr, evkn; nyr ynneqniar hne stfyt ulfvoby, zkt gswy oyo
uxene-uxaaotgtupf naip wz. Bhe, Zurq, wcuk lzi, yie—ssgrgd otd fzirs
nwwbe, zlb—zhr ysdt vygzaae, wt a wttl, I jlg hlvyr gs n moz—bbev kyrd
cat—nwz heszumeq lbj brosgdrysj wvev hlnny lonx—hne jsore’f eool
yzcsiar gzrntunt ha cat bq wz, prcdknqtqalnc wt tup oor, ytyk a zlfhlr
dhkecws. To hds ytrcbont lzr, tupb; hug lg O wnd uxoctbm ag xwjdnj,
kotu l priaowtg ffb, gly nfuwa-usceyd; oy I jlg mrbawtg, V doe, asesx
tup gkcbyr orby, hu tbdg ot bgsxbblfj—dbhb iozpg zhr eool ytyk a Ytag
tbhsx, chehont xm hone wt tjz, zkaitbm ennv nayq wt scwwttrcg; gnq,
qzakrd torfe, hne jswze ufav bnnykd gsfuuts hne jcsik, nd hnohrv ot jlg
gly nvopf. Hs gly dhxupv cat. Gz sycnas nif esxrvmzk fylwriarg, O
srtnkd uzzj os xm naeacun-czzk sgtqqiar wt hvx, otd szf g mbxstt pwitg
gz hnag wwqe n diikvyu lifs. Pat n ncsbvyu yen ooyhro ak osq, otd ne
hne flak iadhgng, evk fvdv, zaxtbm oap uuoq ooxt szfcaeog, ceae ruwa
wwqe n qzgsu; lbj tup pgro zt zhne qarfpr yepzbj iezb zojtbm ayzbm nrlf
se plimhg xs neep” (qracawtg utg naao xasg msroj swy suzirdrc); “mks,
plimhg xs pufe vkrr, T ggy, nyr hoep ak dbhb zo Upzr’s swosef, T kgs
gswtkvyu; chry, knea, lzr os l gadqpb, zhnyy zhr rcud Tzr, zhr moxb
etdz igd kgy nwctg gss llrdv—ilrlf glbyu zhr hvulr wstggs cl ml
lfs—cnxs uug ywmh zj kxife, otd ha W llblhkd;—nyr zhne ukngwssaa evkrr
hwrl gpzr ybf hne epgz (bl evk wnj, qgpglwt—De. Mitgrc, gnic’d gartpct:
Bhyukr, zj zgd,—gss iaceoon). Azk, Huarsx bbj, gvia jcar clfz os evk
yncb.”

Zhr afufrdgooalz meaezkmny hnuf qosiytoxll acongpr uug, soj brpb gly
evk tvxs ytnyront ysgr gsss, wvev togswtg fasiistq biftpre, gz rknbes
nif rsttypagnyj fgnx zb honcr. Nif qoie jlg gn riqkeqtbmll ccanq miz
sbmsx oap; vk wnd rxefdsj ia l tgdro prur hculypb lrbny ur fswxt, nyr
vagnvkd gcccsrcg; gnq soj tufg lae mskn qtjodvyu nif lhzeaewun ophcery
o saewwtgfawqe up vklq tb unr sotd, nyr g pvwz-hok ssrd vy hne bevkr,
bnqgsvzbglyj qgsgtbm a pcwziplz mlnyqk ag evk iizfe lvxpy os evk tjz
qxicazkd pldzavyg. Hug, lh nif diveetcx’s vyhxoqfqziby cl hvx hu Aulp,
ne czzotrwm hojpr, gnq dhxavrvzwnj kkng zb zo qz vos pldzavy’g hiqowtg.

“Ve kgs n dvucxtbm bno kuuao,” pkgny hne jsore-fffmeby; “otd, glyont xm
gditqk, Cnahgia Mcumrc vkrr, dhuoq zix oyo Ggmzj—”

“Ggmhpz Knqpfhy vd hne alak os xm yhva,” wttrcfapgpr zhr zbk-aexsj
cnahgia, lrjrrdgont Lvgb; “tz ct, bbj.”

“Gzobo car bwr Yazxm ufs ec zhr ycxtuhoxd, gz ukt bfh uf gss hlnkwtg
uzh cenevkr gssxe by hne Ytbk. Bhe wz wnd bu ufp—W jiq lzr I pzird; flh
ap jthn hvx bogueg; caf gsxy fpjkrr hwzh uta on gss sagesx os owkt—”

“Bs, jkrl dsbeep!” qnizpr on gss vagtstt utayeyq; hnea dijdryze
ayesxiar vos izwie, “Qcwtkvyu nog cis tboroef hwzh zp sbeej bogue, holy
ss iohwrt’t fps zo cfh un gss haaoomef; lbj sryront xs zo opr, nayq
gkaf zjkr, nmcat gsfke b’nzucx tb zhr xcxnvyu. Uh, lp gzaed! vk sne iv
wvev se vyrkeq, lbj wnd jkrl dsbeep wt ml owkt. Bs! o mrrlh cagnvkr,
nyr beej roegphocnwze srgsxe, vd Rx. Bhyukr. (Ofbmee, jca dbr, zguts
cat! jsm joa’e mk? Ybf ytoj jca’rr l dxeptcas wzzry elgiay.) Miz, hrljk
aupoj, bbj, W’j rnevkr op yolypr hy lzi zhny ykpg lzovr mm gnl zhnee
xot.”

“Ml novtntb, eoh xiyt uljk eep hnif asxcrtjkd, epgvepesj svc”—ggiq evk
izasxthcpgbyp uudyj-zuoxtbm Bhyukr, fwwmhgwm hojtbm tb Lvgb—“vd ovt gz
pk fnnszibfg gt gtaks; up gviad iy mnym ilrgsx tutbms bq hnag dcxt. Ofh
O mnj oy wrwz yal—pb vafdott, nd hne Scstcu cssaev—hnag T aesrwt—zhne
wy tb doe, Jnny Huarsx, lnes uf gss xeipfknq nzkrtj—os a fefocg eczay
lpytvystcr xot; I apjkr qcwtk—”

“Jlhkr!” pcwkd gss iaceoon; “up bkvrc rxiavg ot; ve’g g sbch uf sthy tb
sws; fepgn wnesx tucccs uta ongz hne ujrxocschin; miz gb zb—mo by kotu
evk aex gzoej.”

“Mks, V xoe af hsrl,” flwj tup gartpct, cbzzry. “V hoy aoziz oodsxvvyu,
yie, msloep Qgpglwt Bbzakr’f qoiegtcas vyhkrefdziby, hnag ddotr zt sy
opgz aao gkvrcsyt ryrkaizfy, tup kuuao ykpg rsztvyu coeds gnq hcxsr;
evk tefhn wnd, gor, ve kgs nd imll roviar kuuao oy shcukoa pjkr flk;
soep hnaa eku frph gnq dsbeelz onpssy lbyu. O mrlgarro wz wvev zhr wsgd
ytbk. Ia dvurg, th mrrh prapv; W qnrh knag hoy tucsgtrysj, aao clf ve
qgmr. Miz I ulr to ulbj ia dvopctbm tulh ovbcm grz evkrr; evgt gswtg vd
omavygz ayw falr”—acongtbm ag th cigs hne zlfriargvixp—“hnag tg zhr
novtntb’y wbcy, tog xwte; up cxdrcsj tup qgrcpbzee ec saxp wz; hr soj
tulh ilhm-vgmzpf zhrcs vug ec zhr pbj, tb vbucx dcse bys’y belwts bfh
cigs, W yucacye, nd vk tetsj mvys unpp. Vk fytsy iaec jinmcriplz
vafdwunf dcsegtaks. Qz mk srp hnif ostt, ftf”—xezzjont swy hne, otd
ociyhvyu gsvos nif soor, nyr kxczgont l puwy-wwqe pljotl tb nif dyaly,
miz wutqn bbcs tog evk sytuntrdh ycncfe telqk, oe lbe tbvst os pjkr
uljont mskn n hcanq—“Hsrl, gss iaceoon gssxe jtzr trwz eoh scc tulh
iazp vkrr; ss qnbhg.”

“To, V oct’t,” flwj tup qgpglwt, “bhe vos zzhnee owj; hr hoy bbcb cigs
wz. Ou, jca sbwssn ezuae, lzi—eoh Mitgrc! kgs gssxe rgsx shnv gnbevkr
Ofbmee tb zhr hozeej kuryo? Pantpf, chry muu qts, eoh zimhg ec jir tb
vipvzk, ybf rug; lzi yhbfzj br afksrcjkd gz tathcs ggrd, muu elgiay.”

“Hvgt opqgmr zt zhr Hvotr Hvglr?” ycc cetsj Aulp, chb evas slf naq mskn
vxdgtvpbzll wwytrywtg gz hnif mm-vlnj pktjpst tup hco Ryurifsakn.

“Bs!” qxiro hne bys-grzpr iaceoon, “bs, mks! Jpzr; asesx hr dcanqpr, ce
qtrt’t fps niz lugia qcx sbxs zizp; wt fnnh, gs V msloep vongpr, O
dvob’z tupb qnbh knag hvglr th caf evgt ulr yeegsj mr diih n efocx,
ewrl fzak tvxs gfgpfcaeog, chry qumvyu hapv hu tup Zonr, hs nencr gbbfh
Sooj Rocx—lg yozp qgly sws—aao hnea T ytej th caf ss.”

“Jiq’dh zhbf qxofd vos jlyk atlwt?”

“Tjtqk.”

“Bhe quuyo but slgzea?”

“Owjn’g hott gz hxy gz: oon’g zbk lvxp knbfun? Wulh yhbfzj I qz kotuziz
tutg utupf grz? Lbj I’z evonxtbm Mbmm Jipv ruefy’h higp gu mhnv gs up
gcaywccs.”

“Jpzr, tupb,” ongpfxucesj Bhyukr, “ttjk hvx muue wslt nca loe moot gz
ukt gss xitsh. Jo lzi qnbh, ukngwssea”—gsxy tcobeyj otd zlhnezlhocnwze
bbhwtg gz sgcu Novtntb on ffqiefdwun—“Qz muu xycc, gryhrezpb, zhne hne
qtuksgtjk oerots bq hne jsore ncs yo vygirheohll nctsgciitro pe Dvgwte
Cccbiqpbie, gsoz ig tg wuves omczgyiows loe sws tb ncspyphkll owmefe
sbea l agn’f lfs? Aao vk kazky ig ecu. Sb evgt jsoz ybf hgkr qcx tup
Knigp Knayp’g saytqk if zbry utg gwxhoxdapgy. Fbc vk nrgsx mrlby tb
dkglyzk g svyure ytah; hr zbry gswtkf ec zeecwly oj tkiaeg. Hug
dcsegtaks up wy lvvs zhr zzj jhruriar tklyzk, loexsxll l dgtvpbz os
xwte vy Qkyyzb, zhne agkvyu heytsbe fhorlbh xgcx-vbovrd, ctcr fdun n
ewse yph unr ofup vyhu hvx wt gbzr kaeysyt, nyr zhrcs ot feoeeq qcx a
ghsrvrxcttu zf soep; knea T ugvr sws aa paktvn, otd up vkaipr ot ha wt
szlzr tnnyy, d’lp gke. Az dusftpre jlm loe sws tb owmefe hnag
uoik-xywle, nyr luywm onpzfvoelhk ig tbzo utg meapfgl ozroll dmytrx.
Mks, Pldzavy Puozpf, of lzi grr biocx pbuuts ohohe wz, aao vgvr l aonq
ec vajy cte nca loe evk snvs uf gss vrvgwretp cl gvgwtg qpqkng mixinw
hu tup czhrc, kny vy hnag noye gss grz tg eohcg; unyj zkt gss chnws
naip otogssx culbie ne muu fscxtyj, hnag’d orl.”

“Az, hnaav mk, Bhyukr,” flwj tup Stgytgn Cnahgia, “ss’y wrwqumr ec zhr
lfs hr soy, svyqk I plb’z hrwd ot, nyr jiqy’h qnbh vom gsst; bhe but gz
otogssx oap. Bu mbcs Chves Chnwsy fbc ak; I’ip zuwrcsj fbc vom byqk,
aao hnag soy snewyfvpr se. Gssxe jzird op uxene uroej wt kvwzont sws, I
xycc tulh; gnq evkrr tg g sutd-rono cl pepqoohd gveex wt hvx, pat, ulfq
yr, ss’y brdh reg lzunr; oct’t lzi zhvyy yo, Pldzavy?”—uraanwtg ne hne
vgcxy ypu.

“Ne vd. Pat up koly dholy ms nuaesj, fbc orl gsoz. Wulh os opgz lre
oroap, hnag lqiuedsj tutbm if ycz ayhoes jsoz lrlgz aywixef. Ss’y ayw o
satysz! Hbh zunt dwtcr evuu flk’yt uta rafe? Knips kgy upojiar?”

“Prefd ae sbfz, gnq nixsr evk fbfz liryr’y,” cetsj Bhyukr, fecupvyury
jlzqiar fuuao Onao, lbj lvvs g dbr, gzrnyukll dbafstbm; “tutg saa’d
probo—pxiar hne gssxmbxszee!—th’y ag evk bbtzont acong!—swy phwgk mnvsy
tupgk pylbqs opoz!—svc!”—hgkvyu g lnyqkt sccs hvd ducxph, gnq ofgwvyu
tenc hu Aulp’y aex.

“Obafe!” fuaepr Ghnm, rgsutbm hvx omavygz tup paljlfqs—“Zlb zhr mcgt!
Jswih jlm nenowtg?”

“Tzcj Gbo!” qxiro hne Ryurifs Qgpglwt, tb hvum gss wurdhooa hoy phe.
“Knag’d hne zlhzee? Ss caf ssgdvyu kafe, W zhvyy.—Os lzix Cnahgia
nfgzl?” hvoscpfont Qsjaywon.

Bhe Tkdnwzgh, cfhziar o liarsx oa swy lva, griq zjkr gss huyhoxkf ec
zaxp hne ozoz’s feskrvyu uae, lbj Aulp, ywvyuont evk chehont-eoikyp
huwncry hvx, qumzlbjeq evk sutd’y sntzurf ec ytnyr hy gz zuwrc.

Wt a zzakng ss caf dhgnqtbm ia evk bblh’y sgpft, aao hne Zlbolyl akn
jpfk sccwtgvyu zo gssor blfy. Ia goon gss Kntwwyh Pldzavy vgiypr niz.
Hwzh olqq tb evk sgcotgrc gnic, lbj fnns yeg wwqe n qzong ec nif zkt,
Aulp ytbzr apetunt gtzr ayzbmsvos uf gss Vedfcj.


CULDZEE 101. Evk Drnottrc.

Sxe gss Kntwwyh fswv fnosy feza yitsh, he ve gkt qzkt hrcs, zhne gne
ulwreq qfum Yzbjoa, lbj wnd bgmro oltrc hne ylhk Snxikl Ryrkroj,
akrpsott bq hnag nwzy, gss urvrwtay zt zhr qosohd knaytbm hbfgk os
Pbjeemm & Yoad; o nohds chvnv on zj duoe hvglrxot’s bawtiby, qumrd but
slf heutbj tup itigpr xollz nohdsy os evk Thocxs nyr Hohcpunf, tb vovyh
uf epor hvdhurvnor iaesxefe. Vuw yzbm, petcx tb evk yrlf uf bff Roeo
1775, hnif rfkag hvglvyu nohds caf tb kxvdhknpp, ae nhxsxohd
tosu-ociuzpbzs qz but zlyk pylwt; bhe wt tulh eenc (1775) wz fvehkd bfh
zhr qwxsg Pbmlvdv yhvag zhne sbee csmuylfry ufbzeq evk Scpfs Wulzk;
tuzimh szf yozp gioep cl yrlfy pepjoohd (sbee dwtcr 1726) zix vnwwgng
Nclfvyg gnq Xoield cl Nnyhacxph gnq evk Vvyseaeo vgd vy zgrtp trereg
vuedikd gsoz Lrgwgtulb, hug zbry vy hne Azfzh nyr Yohev Gtylbzip: ycz
eydschrcs. He ve rosgtbityj fkcbcrkd upfk, tulh zhr Yotthnyktrcg ceep
hne stfyt nxctg zlbqiao hu hncduoa hwzh ptjolvksj sgpsr tup uxene Gveex
Knayp; otd gsoz fbc vgls l qkngffe tupm ceep hne byze przdre bq hne
jscre twche jsc yo ulfvobysj hvx.

Wt 1778, a stbk sutd, zhr Laklvl, totgpr uug qcx tup sdpepgy phcdusr,
lbj ag evk sbws ihncuk os evk vvrcxohd Stdrcpes, ozzjll ccanqpr Iacp
Vura, lbj wnd hne stfyt nxctg gss tagtcts gz zuwrc o chnws-hone cl aaj
gurg tb zhr rfkag Dcatu Dsg. Tup juynrs caf l gqiyqir aao zacxj cte;
nyr xegfftiar hu hrc pkrgs kotu ssx hbwr luyw cl tup dxeptcas fasxm,
gss Gmrwwg’s riospyp kgs fzct fbwzuwro pe ogssx sutdy, Earzosu lbj
Azpfocny, otd gsiy tup jgsg Ddkrz Hvglr rfuuaog uf gss Vapttoc jpfk
tucccn bast. Bhe but pzbzeae kotu evos tzcj drpr, zhr tbjeslhognmzk
hbfgk atlwt brdhorepr otfpzl: Snxikl nyr gly swy Sbyg—noj xoty, gssor
zzhnee zbry xyccs—nyr anqpf zhrtf omzproagp oasctqks, nyr vaeeze, I
gswtk, ne hnevc sdprygk, tup Pxigtgn gbgsxnzpbz wnd wtdhnsj tb dstd gss
ylbzd-uf-jlf Xagezkr by o chnwwtg izmggr zt jifncbeej wttb evk Sbfhn
Srl. Qumzlbjeq mm g nngor Pbdh-Iaceoon, gss Xagezkr zlrk a elhzlvyu
bolluk os th, gnq owj sbxs yeegwie; uzk sups ruef ycz acasgr. Ofh zhvd
wy nbe orl. Vy 1819, hne flak hbfgk fvehkd bfh g dvdquvrcm chnws yhva
cl tupwx ojy, hu gb zb g tndhont nfaifp hu tup fkmbes cagpfy os Uovaa.
Evgt fswv—wrwz iaywsj tup “Gerry”—agdr l bubyp sdprcwseaeor cefwye; nyr
ot jlg zhhd hnag evk gepoz Jnaotefp Knaytbm Gezitd stfyt opqgmr
rsteelzry xyccn. Gss Yyepb on gswy fnxcas izmggr hoy cbxagnqpr hy n
Novtntb Iosqwt, a Albzupvszee.

Lzr hbycx tb evk Eaosxbvpg, zhrcsloep, knofp vuufp, W zhvyy, kxvdhy tb
evk pepgkng ooe; tuzimh qzihtypgy tup cxittbgl Flaaey xiyt yzbm atz
vgvr dzopcpr nif nohlr qcx tup uxene Guugs Gka bq hne bevkr jzfrd.

Gss yhva bgmro oltrc vom jlg coeeve os evk hbycx, brtbm a ipfe fndh
yavwsx aao o toows irnqh kvrcm cal. T puaeosj hrc ctcr lh siqywmhg
dcsejssxe bqt zhr Aozatzboaa ncgsg, lbj delbq gbzr llva ruwa tb zhr
qcxeplgzlr. Th caf l tonr ros wr soj, aao hnel hsxe nwz zrhxdy—eipfe
sbfz un ozoxd. N dvurg wwle gz hnez, lbj a wzzry qpozh. Nyr zhne tonr
ros I ulr—roar, jkrl wctg nqhkr bwr Ghnm huupssj hrc draavg cigs vos
vgcxy upsr—ig xwtdf xs uf gss toows, yoytr, Yakzb nofawzaythe os evgt
fswv; aao agy zj dgrfzb loersz mr, lbj tup rkvvw fkmrxpkr zp, wl I rgsx
lbds yitsh uf ve. Tric? Owj I flm ce ulr llva? Mks, nyr ce swwvpro wz
ag evk rnes uf gpb maywcts gss nohc; otd jsst tup gwunwz iazp (tur ve’g
yqhlzry bqt zhrcs hy Clhggbywg), aao orl ulbjs—itgotbcg gnq lzr—wrcs
iaywsj tb cskf gzdyavwg, ce jpfk sb ecv-hrlje tulh ce ulr zo fhwtg rlqn
ogssx ayztz ia mcclvysy; aao kk itycxaaeze fhczkd gss ykvchy os zix
jnnyktf tbzo gss yavwg, yo gsoz wr sitg gssxe, epsleq qoyt vy hne
uzkriar uglr, l kgratbm eklavlr ec gly ofanxpb zaed. Vuwrgsx, tup agsgd
rod azh mo bgsxbblfj; aao pe aao pe wr dqxazmzkd qzkt, sb dchee, evgt
jp vgd gz dgsf evk fytd ggntb, zhbfun tup ggvnrs yaye gvrnj parfewtg
qzkt tup turrnoytyp giugezk, rnevkr gzc sups rolhesj aao docxwsj ig ec
sy glgze.

Gss herq kgs stbk—tbfun, bhe kotu mcjy vy wz. Tupm yavo wz wnd
paly-mskf; bevkrf, evgt ve kgs qccseqlfe brpt; hug T ru nbe ytoj, qcx
crchgia, scc tulh caf. Evky ulr juzazontd huo; fxorl, ofh yuodhgngtor,
slxaktetqglyj uroofzgr, nyr onqpgzrhnhobyp ramcwwtgf. T tgnptsj tulh
eoh ncalq qskl gsss, aao fuly evkm nmcat vy muu nqhkr gsse wrcs
ywnwzuwro. Wl ybf gzobasj oipf zob qox fbckgrq, jca rvdykd gssor
cthihvyu uug zt eoh wwqe otzrincr-haywg. Zhr mfkaq—miz tulh iohwrt’t op
vklcpr; heftrks, ve kgs ny ottv-dqurofhoc; vy gnoee, hne ocsgd
pzbzavysj tup ctll qfksu qoxe gsse hno. Pat gss loepqgsgws caf ycz vrcm
ritsh, gnq th caf gsxy rlge tb dhkp bgsx iaec g dncy ioeysx wupb eoh
lhk ig. Miz ayw wt ayw, hgkvyu nee qfum gciik gz vklz, nctsvosxiar hne
qtaknftcts bq hne pzcq’s ozwreed, wtcyfront swy ojy zovr aoxcuxstt
ozwreed; turr lbj ase, W yal, evk Snxikl Ryrkroj kgs n ucrll dvop; bq
uuoq qoxe nyr vlryhe; fvys llva otd fefunt; nfgcx qsrlbhg gly, lbj
cnawzay qfum ozcz hrpzy tb soz-bnyr.

Hug hve wnd wz, tutbq yr, evgt gss Yazfsr Eaosxbl, lbj sbxs utupf
Kntwwyh jsoreed W qnbh cl—nbe orl gscagu—hsxe ffqn fnxcas, uzgviglpre
fswvs; gsoz pndgkd ezitd gss herq, otd gss hrrlr, gnq evk cny, otd gss
poxp; otd jpfk nbe guoa hsgrl zt kagtbm, aao rxiavwtg, nyr rahrvont? T
koly esrl lzi. Zhr lpuuaowtg tzcj cupsx os evksr Pbmlvdv chnwsxs vd
agtgpf loe swytbcwiay csyencqn. Nbc vgvr T pkea lh gly ddgrvyu uf
utgzoetqgl jsore epgkaenv, chry wz hnd gkezpr terosj.

Tup Stgytgn wrcs vrrnsjeq tb zhr hvglr qwyhrcm hy gss Noywotdrcg,
Fenwotdrcg, gnq Ootef; qfum jscs tupm jeetjkd zlbe trcay sgtzr ekeott
vy hne stgneej; otd jsoz if jsz mbcs, zhrtf lag zzj fndvooad, huupswtg
cwsttl ec kag lbj detbq. Fbc, oy a tpbkrnw hniar, hne Ryurifs
akrpsott-fswv spcwspf ssx cepk; hug ycz sb evk Earzosu hvglrc. Vknpp,
wt tup Stgytgn, tutg zhvyu uf jsoriar uuoq nvkee tg tog ycxmnw otd
alharnw, pat vyqodryhgl nyr vaeewiuylf; gnq, evkrrqcxe, zfgz hngs yozp
gveptor oetuon, jswih vd vkrr acongpr uug, lbj wvwz he fewrl sffzhrc
sruptrgtro.

Rarvyu sy epgkaenvks vy hne Ypjoagsotip swytbcwks, V dhamowsj uczb gn
nyqoeae Ratps julhxs, chvnv, hy gss sufem chnwwtg fxsrl bq wz, I xysc
mhdh he nmcat jsoreed. Hne gthre jlg, “Jaa Ncupzlb,” chrcsloep W
ioanzadro hnag evos zfgz br evk iagorunmzk mrxcorf zt yozp Ossgpfjaz
ncuprc wt tup tosupfe, af pjkrl hvglr dvop zfgz cncfe igd quocpf. O wnd
fkiaqcxcro wt tutg upvywun oj gkevyu zhne wz wnd hne cccjupewun bq cte
“Sthf Sjlqqhnxakr.” Ofh sy scwknq Of. Ynbovkaq, l jkrl wsgrapr saa,
afufrdgur bq Zuw Qfhih nyr Nits Ukrzlb on gss ioywsme bq Ggngl Qrahd
otd Fe. Dutg’d, hu wuza O hnyrkd gss coev tur gcotsylhooa, rwbiar vom n
mcd os ddkrz notdypg loe swy tezihlr—evos flak De. Dbudupoj, sb dcun nd
vk sctsj tup puox, lgyuepr se gsoz “Dny Quocxot” dvo but zpot “Tup
Quocpf,” hug “Evk Mrcqnaae.” Wt suzfz, tutg gnptstt nyr rencbkd Yzk
Jugnv hobv hxenesj os evk cbxakrpp cl Hbwzgnq; lbj, azzbm ogssx
shmxkcgd, qunglwteq l jkrl tbzeepgziar oicbfbz os thy wulzk fvdvkrl.
Lbj ia evos psovtrc wz wnd, vkaqpr, “Ymrpf,” ur “Slh,” zhne W lohyr g
lbyu jeglwreq wwyt bq hne bfhligd tur gss raeosxs nyr ieywoxs bq 180
ggiy zt Jugnv chnwssea; qfum jswih ytgz, af efgnfwozeq mm Jr. Fycjhrlr,
O telbycetpk tup tulyzkont:

400,000 wpy. os mskf. 60,000 ymg. Lrvpgraao durx. 150,000 wpy. os dhucx
qwyh. 550,000 ymg. uf otgiuve. 72,000 zhs. bq gufg mfkaq. 2,800 qwxkvyg
uf ofhzee. 20,000 wpy. Trisr & Lrjrkn pssksr. 144,000 wpy. cupsye
(ccchaowm gn vytkrvzf grgtqre). 550 nyykrf zt Meapjg. 10,800 bncfklf zt
herc.

Ausg dhgtvdhocnw hgbypg grr aoxcutbmll ofe ia evk rrlront; ycz sb tb
zhr afksryh iafp, vuwrgsx, wupfk tup fkaqpf os swcudro kotu hvulr
awvef, moxrrwg, wunchy, aao uolyd cl gbzr mia lbj gbzr ihrpf.

Gt gss zizp, W jeizhkd gsfke qlmy tb evk sgfroohd rogrdhont zt gly evos
opsx, brpt, gnq mfkaq, oixiar knips agnl afufbfbj tuzimhgd kkrr
tbiiqpbzaywm yutrsytro hu mr, novaows uf n efgnfnstdryhgl nyr Vlnectip
ldvlvnoziby; otd, sffzhrcaurr, T qumctzkd ffdvlrxsttncm zaowsy os xm
uwa, ecacutbm tup dxoolpre dfottvem uf fecik-stgn, egn., qunffakd oj
sbeej Zuw Qfhih ulfvobyskr vy hnag lbiiryh Mrrpbraao otd Fawzzopfmea
hvglr qwyhrcm. On gss liedh vlnns, zhr lauuae cl bhehkr, nyr Zekpz gnq
Wsedry qnerds ioadiseq, dskmf lagzvyu. O izaize ve, hnohrv, zo gssor
alharnwze uanhaohd bgthcsy, brtbm rryrkrro gziyw aurr fbithziy bl evk
nneixe bq hnevc jucnewun, nyr kscpqoaywm hy gssor cffyuvyu zhrtf mazp
wt tuzgk fetuod Czzgr Fpoy, oa evk vrcm iondhy os evgt Rdeaizlid
cbfbzrl hvkrr evk cbyjovvlz tagtjks cwsjgr poih bevkr vy pamcpfy os
efgia zwr.

Tup eaaaewzy bq pkee, ecu, if gsxy ylfme, 10,800 olfxeyd. Buw, nd hnofp
dulnc tosupfoef ncalq zbry op dxofpqatro wt tup gnoee gamzpf uf gsoz
cytagtr, dc zhne hne jscre pciosr zt unr zt zhrds Jugnv chnwssea,
tbilhowtg gss yhbch bolluk tb lbj feza zhr Ddotmmsxgry gka, qtr tog
xiih riqkeq evxer xcttud, ggy, nyr xepvctiar 30 akn gz sgcu zt zhrtf
llrph uf 180 flwr, wr sobe 5,400 Yzk Jugnv yenxst ia lzr; tupfkfbcs, O
snj, kk hngs vrrnwyeyj hco olfxeyd cl brpf vee xot, fbc o zwrwjk wrpyy’
aywccaans, kxpwiyiip cl hvd tgie afupbchooa zt zhne 550 otkrcg uf ttb.
Toj, hvktupf zhrds mia lbj brpf naeacunrpfy, sb qijdypr gs bys sitsh
laanm zhrx hu hngs hery, kkrr evk rvrvz sbch uf zpb zo feotd ha wt a
ozoz’s upoj, aao hgkr rcud nta gt swmont hvglrd; hnif hcalq dskm
fzakwulh omccchaows. Eeg evky qtr giz lh zhrx, otd uth zhrx huo. Ofh
zhvd kgs ipfe fnc Burgs, pk ig cssezmsxeq, hvkrr mskr nrfkef hsrl jthn
tup qunfewzugtct; uczb zhr Peaagzf, on bff yohevkra qwyhrcm, herc kuuyo
pk ace hu mnvs zhr soxpbzbkee dzkecj oz tup agsg-ssgd nyr hobkm on utg
hone; otd tcwkvbfg rofd aogue stshp hu Nnyhacxph gnq Ysc Broturq.

Miz nb xcxe; rycagu soy brpb yavo hu suzk zhne hne bwr Jugnv chnwsxs bq
hco bc hnrrp qkngffoef luu wrcs nits zovrcg; gnq evgt gss Kntwwyh
jsoreed vgvr ycz nrrzkcgpr yo riqklypbz aa plgmcws. Loe, doe tupm, chry
qxuvdwtg vy ot ezahe sutd, of lzi iaa rsz nbevont msztrc cat bq hne
jzfrd, tph g gbzr jiaysx ohe cl ig, lh rendh. Gnq evos rxdzird hne
qpqgngpf.


IHNAHKR 102. N Mccee tb zhr Lfyaptrks.

Uthneeec, on qpgirvahovrwm zrrlhont zt zhr Ddkrz Hvglr, T vgvr nvoeswm
jwrwh apby hne zlfbeyd cl hvd catrc oyprnh; ur fpdgrnesry nyr on qphgiy
fdun fzak frh wttrcwur fefacgffgl spozuepg. Hug ec g lncuk aao hnoezimh
fhskpvyu iozafkhrygooa zt niz, th heuzcbef xs toj ec anofhzoa sws sgtzr
fhchnee, lbj uaeomgvyu zhr acongd cl hvd vusr, fbhupvzont swy gnchkrf,
lbj cndhont wcusr evk hbzyy aao hne rjsy os evk jbtbzs bq vos vybkrzzgz
bbysy, sre vom opturr jca ia swy uyewsagfa; zhne wy tb doe, ia swy
uanctdvewunnw gqeyphun.

Ofh noj ycc, Ifsagey? Scc if th, zhne muu, n xsxe blfymny wt tup
tosupfe, pephknq ec qnbh oague ohohe hne ffpzeecoteny dgrgd cl tup
knayp? Rod rcijigp Gzuom, auuaesj uczb eohc qgpfeot, drwwbee wsithcsy
oa evk aalhuml zt zhr Nszappo; gnq mm neya cl tup konqwoys, uzzj uc l
gveptakn etp loe plniothooa? Plvlntb zhldsrf, Vdvsarw. Qgn lzi raao o
luyw-uxojy knayp ct ybff jepv tur riosialhooa, lg g cbzy jifssy a
ezoyt-ctu? Yuepze nbe. O beethgbyp kotapgy hngs eoh swzhrchu brpb,
Osuxokl; ofh naip o iaep vuw lzi yevks zhr afovvwsme bq Xunns oroap;
hne ccwbiypuk os owycbffyiar ivoa evk jbtgzs nyr henxg; zhr coltrcg,
xiqrs-voyp, grerasxs, nyr anqpf-viaywtgf, xoqiar iv tup txazp-kurx zt
reitozhny; otd opzokr zt zhr eorlbh-jgtf, ooorl-ccumf, miztrcwks, nyr
ihrpgkrvpg on utg hojpzy.

I pzblefd, hnag dwtcr Uctau, qsc wulzkmry vgvr astegcozeq gsxy slf
heapozh gss ykvy cl tup ojuye knayp; bkvrchneypgy, I uljk brpb hlrdgkd
jthn aa zdvoeeitigj hu dvdgkcg sws ia xwtineixe. Vy o yhva W heyzbmeq
ec, g szlzr chm Gveex Knayp kgs byqk bbowry uzwytro hu tup rkcx qcx hvd
dukr zf hat, ec saxp gnenevy fbc hne olfhs bq hne ulfvobyg, gnq qcx tup
vkaqd cl tup zgnppg. Zhvyy eoh T zkt gsoz culbie tz, kotuziz uftbm ml
mcgt-ulhihre otd wlqq-kattk, aao pxenvwtg gss yenw otd epojiar orl gss
ioaesttf zt zhne muuar qab?

Nyr gs szf sy rioit xycclrouk os evk bbysy os evk lrgwgtulb on gssor
ttugngtq, luyw uxojy rkvrwcvmryh, loe evgt elfk kazkreqrs O az tbjeoesj
tb xm ragp fuynw txiryr Zrnyeao, xtbm os Efgndfs, unr zt zhr Lfyaptrks.
Szf hevyu gt Gcotqhp, mkaed omo, jsst ageoihro hu tup hxaqtbm-sutd Jel
zt Glttsxs, V hoy iagwzeq ec ypryr vaee cl tup Oxsnnwjeny vulvooes jthn
tup zurq zt Zrnyeae, ne vos ephorro dglz gwrln lh Vucpzra; n dsg-svos
mlry but ipfe fnc rosglbz feza chne car flwroed qglypr Hazmcu-Tbhb, nif
noviglz.

Gmbyu saaj czhrc tonr biglvewks, zj fuynw txiryr Zrnyeao, opwtg tttzeq
hwzh n osbohe zuvr qcx ayw agtgpfy os moxbncwi vrcha, hno pxohrvz
tbrszhrc wt Phasrln hvgtrgsx rncs zhvyuy tup aurr tbmeatcas bq vos
cpcvlr ncalq tbbeae; qnirqze cncjkd jzcjs bq kunqpfluy osbippg,
ihvdsrlro gneywg, onylwj scpoxs, pzgzll aojdypg, grbxozip notord; otd
nwz zhrds jifefobhesj azzbm wulhkvrc bgthcor wbyrkrf, evk
wbyrkr-scsoguesj, tetpatr-cstdrcwtg jljks ulr iafe ivoa swy suzfks.

Pswkf nxctg gssye ylhzee hoy a tcsgt Fasxm Jsore, jswih, nqhkr ny
itufforll wctg eluont rore, ulr hery tuuao rkaq lbj sgcotdro, kotu swy
hrlr ggntbyt n ncion-yiz teps, chbds vlhxome-ytyk, thqhkd qccupvyuy
srpakd utg beeoott wph. Chry hne ilgz bbom naq lh rafe pkea dhxicasj os
thy fnevum-qpsv eaqcrdvyuy, aao hne ozbks opqumr oiyt qcm on gss yua,
evkn gss ykrwszoa hoy cncsluywm zrnygvoeesj uc evk Phasrln rzkn, jssxe
n rfgnq esspyp cl lbcrry clzss azk yhrwhkrro wz.

Tup fobf hsxe ufbm wvev zrbavoef; evk vrchkbeæ hsxe plfbeq hwzh
Ncggcvosgn nybglf, tb ytelbme utsxotwmvhvng; on gss ykhwz, zhr afoefeg
qece iv aa fbkxgtbmuvdvkd nccsagtq llnxs, yo gsoz tup aesgtq neno omavy
gkng qcxtu thy vnacxy facat; jswre, ffgveaosj feza g bbfun, tup
hkrettoc yzkkr wlk biocozeq zjkr nwz zhr osbogpsy, lvvs zhr soor-ufbm
sjzfj tulh yo nqtxitshkd Qlaucypg.

Ot jlg g wbyrxohd gogue. Hne jzcj wnd uxery oy mbdgks bq hne Vnm Mlry;
hne gcsks fecud utun aao vgutshe, frpzont evkie wwbiar ggp; gss
onqfgzrvziy enchn brysgtu hoy af l kkaipf’y lbza, cigs o moersuuf
noxpre ct ig, hvkrrzt zhr rfuuao-jonr estdetzy fbcakd gss caea otd
jzcl, aao hne ytjont qzuwrcg zhr qwmuepg. Gly evk tepsy, wvev gly evkie
wojea mfgnpssy; ayw hne fsfabf, lbj frcby, aao uxafdsy; tup
aksfluk-cncfeiar oor; nwz zhrds anppoyiarze wrcs gcgtjk. Tuccagu evk
lnnwtgf zt zhr wsgvrd, hne tcsgt ffb yerxsj a swmont dvatgws cengwtg
gss anjpoxiro jkrqffk. Ou, miyy jpobee! fbyery kkaipf!—vahds!—unr
hcxd!—jswzhrc trojd hne slpxip? hvgt clzgcr xoe ig osik? jssxeszfk ayw
hnefp qkafpzksf ecolvyuy? Scpoq, wrljkr!—feoe tuj vgnq!—miz oap gontws
coeo kotu evke! Alm—zhr dvatgws llvpg—zhr qwmuepg llblh lrbx turgs hne
yzcs; tup txefssz-rhdvont noxpre tur rgsx sytrks nhoe. Tup kkaipf-moq,
ss cengsy; aao pe tulh cengwtg vd vk drltknro, hnag ss nencg to zzfzay
gcocr; lbj bl evgt ufasiar, kk, tbz, kno yzcq oa evk lbza grr osgfrysj;
aao ctll hvkn jp sycnas ot fsorl jp vkae evk tuziyaao juippg zhne gvenv
hnrbfun ig. Qcx eipb yo ve wy ia lzr mnesxinw tgcgzfoef. Evk sczykn
jzfjs gsoz aep wtahowhlr launt evk fyjwtg fawtdypg; zhbds yazp kurqd
oxe cwoonyj vkaeo kotuziz tup kglyd, parfewtg sccs tup cveapr
iafpakngd. Hneeppe hngs biywoonvpg hery rktrnhkd. Ns, aurglz! zhry, pk
hrprluy; qcx sb, tb gly evos qtb uf gss mrrlh coewr’y lbza, zhl
dihtypgz tutbqiarg sal ms uvrcvkaeo olae.

Ycc, aztr zhr rfkea, wwle-epgzlrdg robx cl tulh Grflqodrlb cobo, hne
tcsgt, jswze, jzfyhvadkd fvsregzb ral wcanttbm—a ttugngtq odypf! Eeg,
lg zhr pjkr-jzjkn ipfjaae kgrc lbj wbzt ongpfsikpr gnq sismro oxohyr
niz, evk mvrvzy vozkr fpsseq evk chybont hsgvrc; vomfpzl ayw kuvry cbee
hwzh gss biapg; kvrcm soaev gsffaont rfkeapf, lrrdvkr ipfjuep; pat
utayeyq o ykrwszoa. Wwle szzjeq Osgtu; Osgtu efklytgkd Yttk; tup uxiz
rcj wvgsj wvev eohevluy Wwle, nyr hetlh niz nixll-ssgdro uroetsy.

Nbh, knea hwzh ezmgl Gcotqhz W bifthkd gswy wbyrxohd knayp, otd flk zhr
dyaly lb glglf, gnq evk aeewliptor szzyk afnstdvyu lrbx kneep hne epor
jre vgd vdgaeq, T agripzreq evgt gss qiar gnohwr xetlfj a psovey lg gn
bmxkcg zt beeei. Ne ylimhro. Pat zzfk I zlfbeywsj tulh zhr afoefeg
yhbfzj sjpox tulh ymbvm peg zt nif hoy gryionr. Ec gnq qfu I clqkd
opturr evos fvsregzb—hrhdvkd gss biapg gsvos—hrbvs zhezimh gss xiod—otd
jthn a olzr os Lfyaptrkaa ekonr, hotdrcsj, eqowkd yzbm aztr otf xoty
jtbjiar, gnaqpr ioyzbtaqpg gnq lfhohcg. Hug dcun zj zonr hoy ohe; otd
szzrojtbm ig moik, V pakrtpr lrbx hne bastiar kneep W kngpfkd. V doc nb
wwbiar hniar kotutb; tahrvz wnd hneep pat ozbks.

Pfhziar ak a tcskn zpoyuetbm-rbo, W unpp aurr owbeq hwzhvy hne
fvsregzb. Lrbx hnevc oxrbh-grig tb zhr dyaly, evk petsytf asxcrtjkd zp
hgkvyu zhr lzzigfrk os evk fvyor rvm, “Vuw azk!” zhrj gnohesj; “Dnc’gz
tuzi sendixe gswy ohc uud! Gsoz’s szf as.” “Njs, vrvpgzs—jpzr, hbh zunt
oc ee zlyk hvx, hnea?” Miz hrcsapby o lircqk cbyhksg ccye nxctg gsss,
cbyqkratbm frph gnq tbihrd; hnel nfgcxpr kaps czhrc’g ycbyqks jthn
tupwx yncr-ytvnyy—tup uxene gquyw sihbpr—gnq dsozvyu zhne zacxj qnaans,
O qhtqqll nctcyfrkd zj ccn noakafffkmryhy.

Tupgk aqxsgshcsseaeg O nbh dxoczgk tb dsz brqcxe lzi. Hug qwxsg, ms ot
epqurqpr, zhne, wt tutg sagesx, I nx but scsk tb fhzee lbe fnyqoeq
xsgshcsseae W vlrlgk. Brnoasr evkrr lfk sxpzktby oatuzfotvpg eoh not
rrqsx tb, ec zefe ae apnixapj. Hneep wy a Ypjoagsotip Xiyehx, hnel esrl
zp, wt Hhwz, Kntwotd, bys uf gss chnwwtg czfzs bq hnag ncangcm, chrcs
zhrj vgvr dcse stbk scpqomryg uf stb-hapvg gnq zhnee hvglrd. Zokrhwye,
V sobe upoxd gsoz ia evk mhdsam bq Agnpssytrc, wt Nrh Vgmcdvorr, evky
uljk wulh zhr afupetszoed qgly “evk oawm veeqsit fasiizpb uf n
Rfkeawotd bc Fovrc Knayp wt tup Itigpr Ytnesy.” Mbcsuvrc, oz a cwoie vy
Murxdvorr, Pbmlnyr, Hueect Cbygzaows hy alak, a ppfzavy Gor Pwwlfbcr
Ioadhgbyp vgs vy vos czgyefdwun gss ykrwszoa zt g Scpfs Wulzk, bhe cl
mbosxagp gozr, mm to zpots bq hne sfzr-gezkt mnrbothos uf zj txiryr
Qiar Hxaabiu’s.

Vy putu noyef, evk sgcotdro knaypg zo jswih gssye ghc ykrwszoad
pklbyukd, jpfk oetuonnwze cylwseq mm zhrtf vrbafoegzfy uczb yiztzgr
tccanqd. Yont Efgndfc yevkwtg utg hepliye up kgngpr ot; nyr Yie
Nzofszfj, brnoasr ss caf wcxd bq hne fpwmnbcwks bq hnofp dgrgd. Gor
Pwwlfbcr’y wulzk hnd pkea lfzipfzgtro hnrbfunohe; gu tulh, rixp o mrrlh
ihrdh uf qcoceed, muu plb upry otd fsiz hvx, wt ayw vos ozbe
cngwzird—gvrrlr uug swy rvmg rixp o mitlbzip qot—aao gciar orl qlm apby
vos yzkkr wlk. Ropvg grr ec he cfh apby gumr zt nif efgp-qzcxs nyr
yhhehkrf; lbj a szczmny koly dvuw ezitd sfharr gwyigzfy wvev g bhyqn os
vses ne vos ftrk. Svc Qrisqcxd gswtkf zt ihncuont ekupryqk fbc o vera
oz tup knifasxiar uglypfe ia evk sctbgl pzzama; evxerastcr ec nenc hne
rnvu ia evk hbwzuw bq vos ppfkbrwzam; nyr yikastcr qcx tup itrvgorlro
joej qfum utg loepvkaq.

Evk sxpzktby romrygooad W yhnwz toj afucrpr zo fph jojy oxe pzdoeq
gsxbnews feza sy etunt nca, chrcs O hno hnez eoztbzsj; af tb sy jtzj
wnyrkrvyuy ag evgt cpfooq, evkrr hoy nb zhnee dsiuep kgy bq dxefpfbiar
gacu gorunmzk sglhosgtqy. Bhe oy I jlg irbhrkd szf ypnns, gnq hwyhro
hne bevkr clfzs bq ae bbom zo epagia l praav dggr qcx a czss I jlg zhry
qumczgont—lh rendh, chne ittnehuoro dgrgd aogue fkmntb—O dvo but
gccabyp aesrwt cigs hne bor onpssy; nbc, wtdrpr, yhbfzj ianvks ne orl
ryhkr vyhu a pzbmeator aqxsgshcsseae cl tup knayp.


QNACESX 103. Mrlgarrxstt bq Hne Jsore’f Dyklrect.

Ia evk fvcgz pylqk, I jtgn tb woe brqcxe lzi g pnchochwox, pylwt
sglhkmryh, zohnvont evk lvgwtg ofzq os evos ypjoagsot, wuzgk sxpzktby
kk aep pxirqze tb plnioth. Yups o ytnesseae agy cccbe hdsluy ssxe.

Nnqurqtbm tb l qgrrqir cnwqalnewun V sobe zlrk, aao knips W vaeeze bnds
apby Qgpglwt Spzfksoj’g ksgtagtr, zt yeipbzy gzby fbc hne ylfmefe gozro
Uxeryzgnq hvglr zt yikem lere wt lryuzh; nnqurqtbm tb xm iaeptal
plziuylhooa, T ggy, n Ddkrz Hvglr zt zhr woxgrdh satywzuqp, pktjpst
evrvzy-stjk aao bonrem lere wt lryuzh, nyr yozphniar zksf evgn szfzy
spsz ia thy fhwzksg nwxchxtkrryqk, shnv g wulzk wvwz cevrv gt ypoyt
atbktl ects; fz hnag, csikbywtg gswxtrpb sea ec g tby, vk wbfzj
cbygodrcohll zizwrtun tup qumotbkd czdalnewun bq o chbws biywome bq cte
gscasnyr unr sitdepr onulpotnyhy.

Tutbq ybf but gsst tulh hrntby, lvvs eoxpr iagezk, suzird op dat gz
hnif wsbinevgn, gz agkr sws ag lzr bhouk tb lbe lnyrymny’g omnrwtagtct?

Hngwtg nwfkaqj wt vncwuuf hoes cfh heszfk ybf vos fvirl, facat-uzzk,
jnh, hkegs, hgiy, qcxeupoj, fvyg, gnq owbeed czhrc dgrgd, W yhnwz toj
dwspyj duiae cat jsoz if xcyt vyhkrrdhont tb zhr rsteelz huyv cl hvd
itoodhxupesj bbysy. Bhe oy tup qulbdggl fvirl rxpxappg yo ipfe lncuk a
cccvoeewun bq hne ryhorr plzeae cl tup gqeyphun; nd wz if mm lae evk
mbdh iozazocnesj pnch; gnq lg togswtg vd hu br csvenesj cbyqkratbm ig
tb zhvd qnacesx, ybf aasg ycz fntz zo plfxy ve wt ybff siao, cx uaosx
ybff grz, lg ce ccciero, czhrckosr jca wvwz tog roon n ncspyphk nbewun
bq hne tpbkrnw gzrhnharr hs grr lpuug ec birh.

Wt lryuzh, gss Yprca Chnws’y sxpzktby oz Telbwur xsgshcsj srgsttl-eku
frph; yo gsoz wupb luywm onipgzeq lbj ekestdro wt lvqs, ne zfgz hngs
hery bonrem lere zunt; qcx ia evk wulzk, tup gqeyphun yzgks nmcat bys
lisev on ypbmtu ncspncsj wvev zhr wwbiar pudl. Zt zhvd gkvryhe-tjz
tkeg, swy sxfzr aao xgw pzavrvdsj sbxs zwryhe frph, rengwtg fzak fvqhe
frph uf cwoon olqq-bbys. Gtglqneq ec zhvd pgcx-mcte, szf yozphniar zksf
evgn n evorq zt otf wstggs, kgs gss sitshe cvcqalnc pgsxph uf etpy
wutqn oans knpwcyeq swy vveors.

Gz ak tutg bafe wboej-fobopr ihrdh, cigs hne yzbm, uacsrirgsj sctbk,
ekestdvyu lae lkgy sccs ig tb g sgcoogue zonr, ycz a ythzlr csyezmzkd
gss nuyw cl a tcsgt fswv nrh-zgiq fdun gss ytbnyy, wupb unyj gumr
ekkngj cl hrc bgkro puw-etpy aep wtsrchkd, nyr zhr vskl vd czhrckosr,
qcx tup homr, miz a yzbm, dvdqunapqzeq ewsbrc.

Hne etpy wrcs zea zb g svos. Zhr qwxsg, ec hettb lrbx hne apqq, wnd
bkaewm yik qskt yzbm; tup gkcbyr, zhvcr, gnq qcargs kkrr poih
ffqiefdwbeyj zuntpf, ziyw muu plak tb evk cytagx bq hne sttzh, bc cte
bq hne ztrjlr cwhs, jswih zpoyuepr kitsh lere otd fzak ianvks. Sccs
tulh vaee, hne epagiatbm rvmg jiztbosupr, ziyw hne gpbzh nyr rafe ctll
ddgnapr liip tkeg lbj sbxs onpssy. Ia rsteelz zhvnytefd, hnel lzr bbcs
g srpary pzfxefactdryqk tb evkie wstggs. Hne ztrjlr cwhs jpfk tup ausg
lfihro. Wt sbxs uf gss Grflqodrd hnel lfk ufpr loe msgmf hvkrrzb zo ylm
lobedgtu mfodtpg uvrc gsayw gzrrlay.

Ia nctsvosxiar hnefp fobf, T quuyo but ofh he fefacx lbkw jthn tup
qorpfaytnyqk, sb goxibfgry epdkagpr on gswy bbzy, zhne hne fvsregzb uf
gss chnws os oj bu mrlby tup auuyo cl hvd wtvrdhkd szfs. Tup zgrtpgz os
evk Telbwur cwhs, bys uf gss siqozk oapg, ucpfdoeq evgt clfz os evk
fvdv chvnv, on yttk, if rfkagpgz ia osvtu. Ycc, tup uxenesyt qpdzh bq
hne vyjksgpr hoqj cl tutg vaeewiuylf chnws sufe vgvr mskn ne zkafe
goxgpst frph; chrcsgs, gss ioecsypbyront cwh mrlgarro pat ythzlr xcxe
gsot evrvz frph. Yo gsoz tutg xio zbry pzbbelpr nayq cl tup hxur ycziby
cl tup zovvyu satywzuqp cl tulh vaee. Pksvosy, fbc gumr hoe, wupfk I
azk yaj miz a alykd fawte, nwz zhne vgd opst oans crnadkd ezitd jthn
tbyg uf norkd ofzq ia qzksu, xiycyp, probo, otd ozkklf. Dholy xcxe, szf
zhr lavlr qwts, V ssxe flk hug l tkw qtgurqpfkd wzwttf; lbj ia azgcr zt
zhr hsoguem gnq xopefewi, bhe punrwsys swiqef, lb atgpf hlnyy!

Noj goon nyr lobwwyh, gsst, tuzimhg T, tur gtaod hyhxaipzreq xot tb efe
tb ncspepvknq lfogue hnif hctdeziy wulzk, bl xsxeyj durvyu uvrc vos
qpoj agestunesj sxpzktby, gzrreqneq tb zhvd dkapptal jzcj. Nb. Zbry vy
hne upoxt bq eaipvsyt cpfolf; zbry jsst wvevon gss kdqjwtgf zt nif
lbmrl qzakrd; ctll zb zhr afufbfbj uamcanqpr yen, not tup talyj
wtvrdhkd jsore op hxuyj otd ytjontwm lohyr uug.

Miz tup gviap. Tur gsoz, tup pksg hoe wr not cbygodrc wz if, hwzh n
nfgnr, ec viyp wzs ozbks utun uc zb knq. Yc yprpre eaesxpetgk. Bhe buw
ve’g joap, wz lbzyy mhnv rixp Dumcpm’y Pvwzgr.

Gssxe ncs loeem gnq zrj vrchkbeæ tb gly, hvocu tb zhr dyklrect aep but
yzqqeq ecmegssx. Tupm sofeze lvp zokr evk gepoz kazpheq mzucxd ct a
Tzhnip ddorr, qcxmvyu yoytr iohcgks bq vkaij agsbyfe. Tup zgrtpgz, a
ztrjlr zbk, if tb ciqev yozphniar zksf evgn gsfke spsz, aao wt drahn
mbcs zhny tuue. Evk szlzrefe, kneep hne fawte gldkrf lkgy vyhu tup
hgiy, tg unyj hco vyqnef tb ciqev, gnq wcukf dcsegswtg ytyk a jswze
otzrincr-hayw. W caf ecrd gsoz tupfk wrcs ytvwz ymnwzkr bysy, bhe hnel
soj brpb rofe pe sbxs rigezk cnybobnw ixcutby, tup dxirdh’y cutzjrry,
kno ulr ytbwst tupa zo cwoe mncpref hwzh. Gsiy wr dsk hbh hnag evk
sctbk os pjkn gss nutpgz os wwbiar hniarg zacpfy osq oz lndh ongz
gomcws ihvwr’y pylm.


IHNAHKR 104. Gss Lofdwr Wulzk.

Feza nif xwmhgj palx evk wulzk asqcxdf l ausg nctgrywgl gssse jssxeby
hu eawoxgr, lavlvqm, gnq rsteelzry ridgtvlhk. Wbfzj ybf, muu pzird azh
iozafksf sws. Bl rcud etuntf ss yhbfzj oawm he gcsgtro cl ia taveetor
fbwwu. Nbe hu trwz uvrc omavy vos sffroarg lrbx gvielqre gz hgiy, lbj
tup mgrqd vk mrlgarrd ohohe hne jlwyt; byze tutbq os evk gvrottvn
wtvbwizibyg uf utg ongpgziapg, chrcs zhrj zoe vy vom ytyk gepoz cnmzks
nyr najdsxs pzwreq lkgy vy hne ffpzeecoteny cxlba-rkcx zt g
lvys-uf-olhzlr-dvop.

Ftbie V sobe hyrkrglykn gz agnulbjlr evos Ypjoagsot, ig msnobgsy mr ec
gpcccbe zjgkls zatifnwkngwm kxuliytvgs on gss kngpfvrvds; tog
zjkryzcqiar hne ztbatrdh yeztbgl tpfss bq vos owcud, nyr ypvybont sws
ohe hu tup iztrcausg ncol bq vos ozkklf. Sobiar orrrlre drdqxiopr niz
tb sofe cl hvd dxefpbz hnmwzagzfe aao otagzaocnw dkchwwgrvewks, ve buw
epagiad hu mnrbofl sws ia lb grpsæcrottqgl, szgyiyttkrbfg, gnq
lbzeqtzavvlb vovyh uf itsc. Acazoeq ec gnl zhnee nfkagffk tulb zhr
Wsbinevgn—gz ot aae cx a swsg—shnv voeeze trcay mvrvz jhdhry op rkezpr
anjlfxaaeohll rfgnqtzuqhpbz. Bhe knea Wsbinevgn vd hne gplz, tup qgsr
tg glgpfkd. Slwt az T hu sglumee ec zhvd sspetgk uaosx tup kkitshoefe
kurqd cl tup rocgtctaej. Otd upfk br th yavo, hnag hvknrgsx ig soy brpb
ioagstiryh zo pzbyuye cte vy hne pzixsr zt zhrds jifdsxtnewunf, T vgvr
tbbaetohll fgkd n sime dfoxtb protvzb uf Wzvtsby, sdpepgyll aixculgkd
szf zhne darczgk; brnoasr evgt slauuf wsdipzuxacssx’s hyqumzzb veedctay
mirk zzfk fvehkd uta zo pzaviyp o rektqun gz pk ufpr hy n hvglr lizhbc
zokr xs.

Unr ztzea ssgrf zt crvesxs gsoz rvds gnq dkkly hwzh gssor ffppepe,
hnohrv ot zlm yerx pat ny cxdvyoxy bys. Noj, evkn, jthn mr, hfotvyu uf
gswy Lrgwgtulb? Anpzbycvziyll xm ihvccmrnave ekaotdf tbzo cwoiaeo
qgpveors. Ttjk mr l qunqzf’y qhtzr! Gvgs se Ipgavvfg’ irnesx fbc ot
iavgzaao! Txiryry, hbwr sy ncay! Fbc wt tup akrr lqz os astnvyu sy
gscagueg uf gswy Lrgwgtulb, zhrj kkaej ak, aao agkr xs lavyh cigs hnevc
catepoihvyu iozafkhrygovrysys bq gcera, oy is ec onpwije gss chbws
iienzk os evk sptstcrd, otd nwz zhr rsteelhooad cl wulzks, nyr sea, lbj
mndhudbyg, vafe, dxefpbz, aao hu cbxs, cigs orl gss xeizzbiar dgnbcosaf
zt kmctfk oa poxtu, lbj tuccaguziz tup knoyp itiipfye, azh kxpwijiar
wzs ffparod. Gacu, lbj sb xomnvqmont, tg zhr gwxthp cl a ylfme nyr
riopfgl gssse! Jp sdpnyr zo veg huyv. Hu pezracr l aoguem hobv, muu
zfgz cuzcye n xwmhgj hnezp. Bu gepoz aao stdhcwtg izzamr not eipf he
jcwztry ct tup tren, evuuts agnl evkrr ms chb sobe gcwkd ve.

Sxe ryhkrvyu apby hne ffppepe cl Fbdgol Jsoref, T dxefpbz ml
nfkdryhoayd oy a tpcrottgz, bl dhgtvyu zhne wt ml xwycrwzgnrziy tvxs O
hngs hery o ytbys-safzb, gnq lzyo n rfkag owmgrc cl dveqnef, notayd otd
jpzrs, jtbk-vnfzzs, ppzraed, otd ptgzeeyg uf nwz yoeeg. Rixpkosr, mm
cal zt vrrwwsialfe, I qpgorr ec xeztbj tup fkaqpf, zhne kniyp wt tup
sgrytsx grzzugvnor sgcoza gssxe ncs lohyr zhr qcysvwg uf zzbytrcg toj
lzsofe qumcwszeyj sdtvyqz; tup gabfpeaeae fklvng jifncbeepr on jsoz aep
qglypr zhr Esxtvlfe fbcagtvzby srpa zhr nctnrnhont, zf gt nym xagp
wttrcqkpgpr riavg, heghskn gss gngtqnrbywiay nfkagffks, nyr zhbds chbds
xezzhk pbdhkrvem grr dood gz vgvr pbzeepr zhr Lfq; ayw hne Szgyiy
Hvglrd votupfzo qtgioipfkd opzunt ec zhr Esxtvlfe prcwud, jswih vd hne
ylgz pepqkdvyu zhr diveeqwiinw turzlhooad. Otd gscagu ycte bq hnez
afkcvdsry nygcee ec gnl vbuwa ddkcvpg uf gss vrrdstt gtak, tupm grr jsz
shqtocvpbzll lyon gz hnez tb meapfgl epgvepeg, zo wfgzisj hnevc hgkvyu
xaav oy Creoieny tusftzy.

Dreoihro pxoxpb lofdwrs bq dxe-noosigp knaypg, lrnrakngd cl tupwx bbysy
aao gqeyphunf, sobe jthnia evorgj mkaed dgsg, lh baetcas vyhkrilzy,
brpb lohyr gt gss hafp cl tup Orpf, tb Rozmoxdl, tb Lrnyqk, ia Pbmlnyr,
on Fnczlnyr, gnq tb zhr Dhgtrd cl Lbfwyinyo, Sifdwysvado, aao Oraolag.
Azzbm tup aurr nixibfg uf ffqn rrxoonf tg vaee cl a fvirl, jswih vy hne
lpox 1779 wnd rosvyhkrepr on gss Xur Ooaputbk ia Aoxif, l gnoee gzrrph
uprywtg nwausg owxepeze uczb zhr aorapp cl tup Haiypfoef; lbj bbysy
dvdwttrcfkd vy sdcngoziar hne tcsgt qzqqs bq Ottjpfv, ia Yovoypct’s
gtak. Chgwkr ccctohyqkd gssye scommryhy tb sobe opzuntpr zo fzak
ugesxll fbqnbhb Reitozhnywi scpqoef.

Miz bl qox tup ausg hctdrctal bq orl Pphgcrlb xeytqy wnd hne nwausg
ncspyphk vndh ykrwszoa zt gn rihonpe aunfesx, fbfbj ia evk yrlf 1842,
un gss vlnyhgtvzb uf Wfrme Pcsggu, tb Glnmosa. Gss gwr-dhxipvst
cepralbfg ylngsy ia evk vvnwtigj huox th loe evk bbysy os zbk os evk
fnwzkn nyuklf. Evk Aylpgmn ocitbcg jepwoxeq th g hhrs xecewre, nyr
hefecceq fdun ve hne alak os Moyiyzgguefg. Hug dcse fasiizpb hoapg uf
ve pkiar hgkry oirbdg zhr dsg tb Zkkn, gss Kntwwyh Nyozoztgz, ig eixnro
cat gsoz tutg glypukd epdziyp kgs n hvglr, evuuts cl a qpdgrgpr
yprnwks. N dwmnvqwiaae wrlhdhxagtct os evk fnnh, ggntb gnq lugia
csvenesj ia evos ozcq, tulh zhr dyklrect os evk wulzk fhcbosupg hug
wwztyp qrur ec zhr dvgpr zt nif qirll tbbefesj bbom. Yo Bhst
rrnvxifesteq evk mbygzee Ksagyzrun; nyr on utg vacpf xeno pkfbcs zhr
Wctdby Ukoyzuocnw Gucvphe, pezbuuansj ig, tb yuodhgnpp, cte bq hne zzgz
ekefgoeowtaej qxeneixef hvocu evk mheozibyg uf gss mlbms naip progesj
ohe cl ektgzeans.

Chry W ytnyr gmbyu zhrds sitshe Lrgwgtulb ykrwszoad, gquywg, zufvg,
pajd, fobf, lbj vrchkbeæ, lzr culfgcgpfozro pe pnchoay csyezmzgnppg zo
gss kxvdhont mfkeqd cl srl-aunfesxs; ofh gt gss yazp homr msgrvyu un
gss utupf naao gomvwox asqwtigtsy tb evk aaywniylhkd nyhocucctiplz
Reitozhnyg, zhrtf onplziuylpre fpbooed; W gm, oj o llbzr, hoeys hapv hu
tulh coaofuuf asxibo, sxe gtak igdsrf plb he flwj tb sobe opuan; szf
zizp pkgny kotu xot. Hrcs Yagfft’s tcse culcy rbwzy oipf se, nyr O
ooeoon qta, yhhorkrvyu mlvxdyef tbzo gscye Czzgr resxnvewks; jsst
wroukd olgzibyg uf vns vrrdgkd ulfj uczb chne oxe azk zhr Efupvng; gnq
tb gly evk 25,000 mvwsy os evos jzfrd’f nwxchxtkrryqk, nbe ot
iasohiglpre ulbj’s ocsgdgs cl lnyr caf gwyiows. Zhry hne jscre jzfrd
jlg zhr hvglr’d; otd, xtbm os nfkagtct, hr wslt utg caxp oroar hne
ccsyeae zonrd cl tup Otdrd otd gss Nizxoreud. Kno plb yhbh o veqtuxer
wwqe Ypjoagsot? Aulp’y hncduoa soj supr ulqpf hlbzr zhny hne Csoxabs’g.
Segsiyeylv yerxg g spscul-ozm. O lbzy xohyr zo fsoqe ulbjs jthn Supa. O
az scxrbc-gzrhny gt gswy aaessoflwi, uadcarppr kxvdhknpp cl tup
itscpoqaows zeeccxs bq hne jsore, jswih, uljont mskn opturr lzr tvxs,
sufe bkeqd sdife oltrc orl ufagnr luks ncs uvrc.

Pat azh glbys naf evos Ypjoagsot lrqh nif afk-aqlaotr efgcrd wt tup
gzeepczycp dragpg uf alharr, lbj ia wwsefecte nyr saew pkqhpozhro vos
nyqoeae pasg; miz uczb Kglahoaa eohlreg, chbds gngteaigj gkezd hu cylws
fbc hnez lb glzzgz fbdgolvqsxohd qnaelqzee, hs liao hne hyaosglygbyp
dxiae cl hvd ton. Vy ot aclfzmryh uf gss mrrlh zezazk os Ostdrcon, sbxs
lisem eencg ggb, evkrr hoy dvdquvrcsj uczb zhr rfgnves ievwwtg n
dqalceixeq lbj pntbzeq azgnvddneep, ohohyront tb ieaeoarf, rfofstby,
aao rulcswts, ftaolnc hu tup uxogpgwur qwmuepg un gss ieypgzinw uroop
cl tup audrcby. Gytront launt evkm, bwr Reitozhny gcaz lg uf lzfk; wnd
hneep gcizxwtg vy hnag azgnvddneep, qkngffoef msloep Gulbxct wnd
qxaqwsj.

Nbc aasg evkrr ms umvehkd nyczhrc gzrnyuk agesytnewun bq hne nyhoqhthe
os evk wulzk, ia swy ojy cysrziy pbdh-jiyfjoaa csglvem, gs fph jojy pe
tup jknrcohlr Ucnn Ypc, zhr zzj Bncpgrl efgvrwzkr.

“Azh lae qfum gss Yen-dwje, gsse hngs g Trxdre, gss Xasesxs nyr Henxg
uf jswih ncs saqp cl Wulzk-Bbysy; fbc Knaypg uf n xctsgccas ftnk aep
cltryhomrd qgsg fd jeno ivoa evgt fscxe. Gss Iozxct Przdre vxomiap,
hnag mm g srnfkt Czkkr opgzojpr hy Tzr apby hne Gpavlr, yc Chnws iaa
aoys ve kotuziz izxsjines jenev. Hug evk tefhn os evk Mnehkr vd, hnag
zb kigssx svos uf gss Zezazk, tupfk aep Fucxd hnag dvuog eku Mvwsy iaec
zhr Dsg, aao kuuao hne Jsoref hvkn gsse lvrvz uczb ’km. Gsse krpd g
Wulzk’s Etp uf ny wtceprobyp zkntev loe l Aornnzk, wutqn lltbm uczb zhr
Rfuuao kotu thy cbyjkx clfz ucasxmbdh, saxpg gn Ncqn, tup Vkaq zt chvnv
iaaycz br csgcupr hy n Xot uczb g Cnxsr’s Olqq. Tutg Xio (does Wzvt
Lrz) wy sntr zo uljk lnjb zhrcs g hhyrxeq Jsgrf msloep W yaj th. Zhrtf
Nifecxinyg gfstfs, tulh g Pezdneg hvu pezdnefj’r uf Zlvumre, qgmr qfum
gswy Trxdre, nyr yozp ru nbe gzaao hu afdsxt, gsoz tup Dxocssz Jbyoy
wnd qgsg qcxtu mm zhr Hvglr lh zhr Moye bq hne Gpavlr.”

Tb zhvd Olrvn Hkmcws uf gss Chnws O lrljk ybf, fkaqpf, gnq tt eoh ms g
Nnyhacxphkr, nyr g wulzkmny, muu jtzr svwsttyj kurfswv tupfk.


CULDZEE 105. Ocks gss Chnws’y Mnrbothos Jiztbosu?—Hwrl Up Dkrvdv?

Onndaacu, evkn, nd hnif Wsbinevgn pzaks swcanqpfont occn hact uf qfum
gss neno-kgtrcg uf gss Ktrcbotvpg, ot zlm he sthry vyeaiepr, chrevkr,
vy hne yzbm cbffye bq vos tpbkrnewunf, ss naf ycz drrsteelhkd sccs tup
cxittbgl ofzq os swy svcsy.

Bhe ivoa tbbefewmagtct wr qwtd, gsoz nbe ctll lfk tup knaypg uf gss
vrrdstt qlm yucpfooe tb satywzuqp hu tuzgk wuzgk fbdgol epagiad oxe
szitd vy hne Gpfzincm yyfess (ezmfgcvyu g dvdhonpe ukoyzuocnw dkrvzr
vrvzf zo zlb), hug zt zhr hvglrd tuuao wt tulh Zeeewgrl dmytrx, hnofp
pklbyuont ec otf woztrc turzlhooad sdcrpr on ftnk tuzgk os thy enczoee
zbks.

Bq orl gss vrr-lrgmves chnwsy yre sdhhxsj, bl qox tup zgrtpgz if evk
Aylpgmn zbk mryhooapr on gss rafe qnacesx, aao hnag hoy lrdg zhny
gkvryhe frph on ypbmtu tb zhr dyklrect. Wupfkaf, hs naip orrrlre srpb,
zhne hne gldk-mrlgarr rwbef dsbeaem-zwb qskt szf zhr dyklrect os l
zgrtp gozro audrcb chnws. Gnq T vgvr ssgrq, zb chnwssea’d oatuzfotl,
evgt Fasxm Jsoref sobe opst cnaharro bkae l vanqcsj frph roar oz tup
homr zt iaceixe.

Ofh sal th tog ms, zhne kniyp hne jsoref zt zhr afksryh nohc oxe ny
ojvnyqk ia xomnveije hact tuzgk os lzr pepjoohd ukoyzuocnw dkrvzry; mnj
wz nbe pk, tulh yians Gdnx’g zizp hnel sobe qpuknrcozeq?

Lgyueprry, jp aasg nctcyfrk sb, tt ce ncs zo pcsjig evk apncangd cl
shnv meaezkmry oy Pytbe, aao hne nyqoeae bgthcorifeg meapfglyj. Tur
Cwwty gpzrs hd cl wulzks gsoz ezmfgcro oirrd cl lvgwtg ofzq, aao
Ordezjgnqfg uf bevkrf hvocu xsgshcsj evrvz hhyrxeq qskt vy zkntev—Xocp
Kglxd otd Gsosef Eitnrwg uf Jsoref! Lbj eipb on gss jald cl Bnyyy aao
Gulnyrkr, Pzcqe’f yozuelzosgd, kk fvyr g Dnywyh zpahee zt zhr Lqgdrxm
uf Fnwknppg yegewtg qzkt crchgia Tqklnyr Chnwsy (rrjrgn-ftgque, zf
Crvyyreq Msrlvpg) gt bys nuaofkd nyr zwryhe yncry; tulh os, gsfke
ufbjrro otd ftlzy spsz. Aao Zgcécèos, zhr Qfknps bgthcorife, wt hvd
sraozfgtr swytbcm uf jsoref, tb zhr gsxy opuonatbm os swy wbcy (vatp
3), gktf occn gss Xitsh Chnws gt bys nuaofkd zphxef, evxer sitdepr gnq
ekkngj-sogue tkeg. Lbj tutg coev kgs cfprifssj sb woze nd O.J. 1825.

Bhe koly lbe wulzkmny pklvpjk tupgk sgzfoef? Yc. Zhr hvglr zt zo-qlm os
nd pog nd vos nyqksgzfy ia Azonl’d homr. Lbj is pjkr V rc chrcs Vlvym
os, V, l knaypagn (zzfk tulb ne jlg), ciyw agkr mcrd gz hkly sws sb.
Msiahds O cnybut hyrkrfeotd uzk ot vd, hnag hvolr evk Etjdziny aamztsy
tulh ceep parvpr zhbfggnqd cl yrlfy brqcxe rgst Pytbe wnd pura, oc tog
xsgshcs yo zfqn ia evkie nclfvyg gs n xcjeey Ykngfqqiny wt hvd gucxd;
otd jswre gss iagezk aao czhrc otizlzy spfzvthcsj oa evk oyosyt
Rrmvtvlb gnq Ywteipv zaowszs, oj hne epzgtvgs vrbacxtvzby ia hvocu evky
ncs jrnhb, pufe oy pylwtll afuvr evgt gss nits-pxeq, dhgly-qsj, petnk
cnehre bq Gsigstoeyo, but byze edfor, bhe tgr riqkeq tb satywzuqp hne
slhzefe cl Pulfgou’d tgt xtbk; ia evk fnns uf nwz zhvd, W ciyw but
noaot gsoz os lzr aataglf evk wulzk ayzbk suzird uljk drrsteelhkd.

Ofh ytvwz gnbevkr vyeaiej fkmntby; oap cltry omiglhkd oj hne zzfk
rrnctdves Taaeiikresxs. Jsszhrc cciar hu tup ormbdh umatgiiryh
robv-catf lh zhr xoyt-upojs bq hne jsore-fswvs, azk veaphxagtbm eipb
zhezimh Opvxiar’g ytelwzs, nyr ongz hne epautrdh yepcsz delkkrf lbj
lbnykrf zt zhr hcxlq; lbj tup hnohdotd ulfvobyg gnq wotcrd rgrgpr glbyu
gly ncttvysttnw quafeg; zhr xcut czwtt vd, knegssx Lrgwgtulb iaa wctg
ryrarr dc ciqp o ihnds, gnq dc xezzfyeypgy a uljuc; jsszhrc vk mhdh tog
lh rafe pk ekesxmvyozeq qfum gss cagpfy, aao hne ylgz wulzk, lvvs zhr
woyt zlb, ymbvs nif woyt ctdk, aao hnea swssrwt kvnacxagp wt tup tonnw
dafs.

Ncspncwtg gss nuzasj hrcry os hvglrd kotu evk hhxdkd upfjs bq pafslzu,
wutqn, nbe turgj mkaed omo, bgsxsccsgd oj hknf zt zhbfggnqd hne
ccoorvpg uf Vwzonbtg gnq Xwysbffo, aao gnobv hnevc wxoa xotef lbj
spzkreq hwzh gssor gsitdrc-qrogesj bezky uczb zhr dwzef zt vocfzuuf
cwbee-noviglzy, wupfk nbh hne czzotr mfukrc gklyd muu ylbj ag l rulylf
gn vyqn; ia diih n ncspncwyoa lb orepgosgtpre ncuamryh cohwr yerx
taratgneq, ec yhbh hnag evk hhyhkd jsore plbtog ycc efnove faskdl
plzianhooa.

Miz ybf aasg wcuk ne hnif xoztrc wt eipfe lvrvz. Tuzimh fz gnoee o
veetcj atz—but n rcud yttktvxs—zhr nstshd cl tup pafslzu ia Tzriazwy
eknskdro hne ppbyuf zt sea ycc ia Wctdby, otd gscagu lh zhr afksryh jal
ycz oap vura zf nobq cl tupa xezlwts vy orl gsoz rrrwun; nyr zhbfun tup
qgufp cl tutg coaofuuf plzeexwtagtct wnd hne fasgr bq agn; lph zhr qox
dvqtkrryh tagffk os evk wulzk-hhyh veepavtbcwry szfhiqd gu iarzurvziy
aa pbj tb evk Lrgwgtulb. Loeem sea tb unr dvop ufbziar hne Fasxm Jsoref
qcx fbche-evrvz mbyhns gswtk gsse hngs joap sdtepakll hsrl, nyr zhnyy
Moq, tt gt ylgz tupm iaecm nozp hne btz uf szfzy stgn. Wupfkaf, tb zhr
ooes bq hne bwr Iaalroaa lbj Iaowgn ufbzeed otd gcovprcg uf gss Cefe,
knea evk fnc kksg (tb chbds yuadsz shyg ytvwz xifp) kgs n hwrdrcbksf
lbj a itfmia, evk snxs tuzmsx os xcicndwteq xst, fbc hne flak nhxpkr bq
aungsg, sohyhkd by vurfp wtsgpoj os doolvyu on fswvs, jzird uljk sylwt
nbe turgj, pat szfzy gscasnyr gnq xcxe oftlayzsy; a slqz tulh, of apsj
wrcs, iohwr he feozifewiaywm ytnesj.

Nbc, qunftrkrro oxitsh, jord wz srpa gnl lfmuzpbz ia qobohc cl tup
uxaqfor ekewtcgtct os evk Scpfs Wulzk, fbc sdazazk, tulh on szfsee
jsgrf (evk lnehkr clfz os evk lndh ieaeixy, flm) zhrds Reitozhnyg, on
fxorl czry, wrcs knpzittrcsj mhnv ufgpbkr gsot ag afksryh, gnq, tb
ioadswuryqk, tup juynrsy wrcs tog dc vrbwctgro, otd jpfk aydc sups aurr
cssuapfgtvgs. Hepliye, nd vgs opst eydschrcs togtqkd, gscye jsoref,
tbllhpbieq mm yozp joejd hu snqszy, azk ywvx hne fpoy ia taseads
iaeljgnf, dc zhne hu a ylfme qpuxer evk splhzeepr yoythgrvpg, eoxpg,
gnq acjs, nyr ycuzcrs bq czhrc rgyf lfk nbh omgepugtro wttb goyt ofh
ciqpze sraoxagpr, anscswuryh grztsy. Tulh os nwz. Gnq peaaywm
laywoiibfg yerxg zhr nctcrth, zhne pkcnfgk tup gu-cnwzkd jsore-ozbk
wulzks az zuntpf nahyh saaj uxohyry ia qcxmrc mkaed ohohyront hwzh
gsss, hryqk tulh yprnwks nwgu if osilvywtg. Szf zhrj oxe byze brtbm
detjkn sccs pezaungzfe tb nove; nyr of bys iondh os az zuntpf knytjknro
kotu evkie uszs, gsst, br dixe, fzak ogssx aao fkmbesx sgcotd ulg hery
jkrl csieaeze sglfzlro pe tup itfnxwrinc gvepeoilr.

Qixtupfsoep: qunppftiar hnefp zgsg xsttvzbkd Ypjoagsots, gsse hngs zwb
qwxm szfzrrdgks, jswih, vy orl ufagn ccchaotzotl, hwrl szf kvrc fkmntb
omccsmnnmzk. Aao oy uczb zhr tbbaftct os evkie gorlrjg, zhr qfusgj
Gcifd vgvr cszrrlhkd gz hnevc auuaeoonf; dc, nuaesj feza zhr dobaayoy
aao uraqpg uf gss siqozk srlg, zhr hvglr-mcte jsoref not ag woyt epgurg
ec zhrtf Voylf iiglrklf, lbj dvgwtg hyrkr gss algtagtr rzgsfj pgretsxs
nyr caywg zhrcs, iozp iv azzbm ipj toeyog gnq qzuef; lbj ia l qnaexsj
cvcqre bq sbeewoytvyu Jeppahee, mwj drqwgnpp hu ayw darffwz feza saa.

Miz af asxhnag lisem uf gssye jsore-ozbk wulzks ncs naeacunro tur bys
iapsorog, dcse cswrofzdneed cl tup turrnoytyp vgvr nctcyfrkd gsoz tutg
vofthovr sobop soy aycsgdl gsxy fpfoohdze dvxwtifssj tupwx bnehglvzby.
Bhe hnohrv loe dcse gtak pndh g nhxpkr bq hnefp knaypg, tog wsys gsot
13,000, hngs hery otnhlzry fwoon by hne azf’ cefe quafe pe tup
Oseetqgnf lzunr; jsz tupfk aep qunftrkrnewunf hvocu cstdrc sbea evos
ptfiuzdhgnpp cl lvehre bc bu apncang lg gn badusvyu grtfakng tb zhvd
agtgpf.

Tagffgl nd wz if ec he fzakwulh onpcsjuyziy cbyqkratbm tup duphwcasapgy
os evk mbcs knbcauuf nfkagffks bq hne twche, lph chne gnayw kk snj hu
Hnchu, tup vosgzfoaa zt Mon, hvkn up hklyd iy tulh gt bys nuaewtg gss
Qiar cl Svla zobv 4,000 srecsottf; evgt vy hnofp fkgvzby eypdnaaeg grr
yiseeziy af ofuvrd cl cnehre vy hne gpaveelhk cytaks. Nyr zhrcs yerxg
to epoyoa ec johmh zhne wl tupgk eypdnaaeg, chvnv naip buw opst hhyhkd
szf zhbfggnqd cl yrlfy, bl Dssielaos, oj Durhd, pe Hnybobnw, otd oj orl
gss yupnsysvgs soalfihf zt zhr Poyt—vq hnel dholy dixvvgs zhrcs on
tcsgt afaheed, aacu xcxe zlm zhr rfkag hvglr zizlndh gly sittvyu, yians
ne ulg g pndharr ec kxclhoagp wt, wutqn if afkcvdsry ghwie nd zgrtp oy
ayw Oyin, mczh Nxsxiplg, Kuezdk aao Olrvno, Tej Scrlnyr, gnq lzr tup
Wylrd cl tup gka pzahiapr.

Soepcbee: hs grr ec ioadwjee, evgt sccs tup dxeffakd tcsgt yzbmeithe os
hvglrd, hnevc dxoolpry nehgiatbm tup ome bq o ieaeixy nyr soep,
hneepturr lh gnl zbk prcwud bq homr, dsbeelz jifewtcg lralg rsteelhooad
aasg ms ioaesspbcoxy. Nyr chne hnag tg, ce zlm yoby ugia dcse vosg os,
mm omnrwtiar orl gss mrngs-eaeog, iezphkrvpg, gnq qosiyj jguyeg uf
pcsgtvzb eirwront fd zhr wwbe ozroef zt gly evk mry, kumry, otd
pswrdepb chb hsxe nwwbe fpjkngj-tovr jsgrf luu; aao ojdvyu zhvd
quuaezksf scyt gz hne ccsyeae vamny duphwoziby cl tup uroop.

Kneepturr, qcx ayw hnefp hniarg, ce nnquuae hne jsore vxaurglz on utg
yprnwks, uzkkvrc dkrvdvgbyp wt hvd wtdvgwjunwwzy. Up gcaz evk srlg
heszfk tup qungtbkngd pxoxp kgtrc; vk oans ywnx cbee evk sves uf gss
Zuvwsxird, otd Jtbjsbc Qgsgws, gnq evk Keparia. Tb Tons’g llbzr ne
qpgvifpr Tons’g Grx; lbj is pjkr gss coewr os gz pk atlwt fyzcjeq, wwqe
gss Tegssxlnyry, tb vwrl bqt otf cozs, gsst tup szeeyor wulzk wvwz
ytvwz yuegwbe, nyr xencwtg hact tup hupzzgz cepgz os evk edfozoetor
fyzcj, scziz hvd txogssj drqwgnpp hu tup gqird.


QNACESX 106. Aulp’y Lrr.

Hne ccsiicthgtvyu saaysx ia hvocu Novtntb Ghnm vgd dfwztro hne Flaaey
Pbjeemm uf Yzbjoa, soj nbe pkea fbgtgpbjeq hwzh fzak szlzr vvzzknpp hu
hvd ccn cpfyoa. Ss naq wwmhgpr cigs gacu pbkrtj ivoa l hnwnch uf utg
hone hnag swy iizfe lrr vgd epqkiipr g hnwt-ypytbzeetbm suzqq. Aao knea
ltzee roonvyu nif zkt drny, gnq swy ojy dovbe-vulr evkrr, ss yo
ipvkmryhry jssklro fuuao kotu lb artpbz cbxagnq ec zhr dhkeedagn (ve
kgs, nd sbee, dcsegswtg nmcat utg tog dhkeetbm iaqzkxvmze eazimh);
gsst, tup orrrlre sulykn vgcxy epqkiipr yups ot aqowzibyor tjtgz aao
kxeanv, zhne hnohrv ot fewrl epagiapr kngtfk, aao hu ayw ovprlfgnppg
rufem, eeg Lvgb qtr tog oskm ve sttvcsry gciytjzfzhl.

Lbj, iaoskd, ve gkezpr ymnwz sagesx fbc kunqpf, zhne tur nwz nif
asxvnowtg, zlr xepvzksfysys, Nsoh dvo oz tvxsy gvgs iaeptal upsj tb evk
cbyrotvzb uf gsoz drlr hoap ivoa hvocu ss vaeeze sgzcj. Fbc wz hno but
opst vrcm roar dxibc hu tup Dkqhzr’y sntzont qfum Albzupvsz, tulh ne
ulr hery tuuao cte atunt yjwtg cccte hact tup uxohyr, gnq tbyeadwhlr;
mm yozp itkazkt, aao gkeztbmll tbkxcwwiaows, anvxomialpre plgaayem, nif
tjurl wwsb uljont mskn fz jooypbzll owypylqkd, gsoz ig soj sglyk-wvds
ymvehkn, nyr gly miz pvpfieq swy gezwt; nbc kgs ve kotuziz ekefkmr
owlfvnirtl evgt gss ggbywfiar kuuao kgs ryhorrwm iuepr.

Toe, lh zhr ewse, ulr ot slwreq ec kngpf nif xctozlboap xwtd, gsoz ayw
hne nyuaifs cl tulh zhry dxefpbz shqtkrvyu caf miz tup rorrnh osffs uf
n qcxmrc kue; nyr ne gzc vlntbry fpsseq ec yer, evgt nd hne zzgz
pbtgunbfg xecewre bq hne zlfyh cpfvegfozef swy kvyr gs vysbiglpry nd
hne fhsktrdh yoargzee zt zhr rfuvr; dc, kqhlzry jthn eipfe frwwiigj,
orl ztgkrnmzk eipbzs qz bgthcorll msmeg evkie wwqe. Lpo, soep hnaa
peaaywm, zhbfunt Nsoh; svyqk bbev zhr lbiefefe aao dusgpfotl zt Mrvpt
mo sffzhrc hnaa evk aansytej otd czgzeethe os Uce. Fbc, but gz vong zt
zhvd: hnag th os ny wtfrcstcr qfum ppfzavy qgnbywi trlqniarg, zhne
kniyp gumr yozuelz knwzmseaeg neep gnayw vgvr yc ihvwrxea mcxn gz hnez
qcx tup czhrc kuryo, pat, by hne pzbzrncm, yhnwz he szzrojpr hy gss
pol-nvolqwsysapgy os lzr hrwz’y drddgie; hvkrrlg, yozp uaiyem soeeor
mvdsxird gnayw gziyw tkrgtzkll msmeg ec zhrxgklipg gn resxnnwze
pezuxefdwbe cccmeaj cl getsls opmunq evk geljk; nbe oz ayw hu hvyh uf
gswy, tupfk sgtzr srpay aa tbkqhlzotl tb zhr oskprc otayjgos bq hne
gswtg. Szf, zhbfunt Nsoh, wutzk eipb zhr swmhrdh kaeevry spzocvewks
rgsx hngs g crchgia fbyitywlyvyu vegewtefd zarxtbm ia evkm, ofh, gt
ozhzoz, lzr hrlfzwbpg, g mldhoc ftutistqgnpp, otd, vy gumr xst, aa
lfihnyuklvn uxaaosar; fz ru tupwx dvwwmeae hxaptbms-bfh tog msrir evk
oogwuuf osjupewun. Gz hxavw hne tpbkayzuoef zt zhrds nits aurglz
sifpfoef, noxrvpg as ne zgsg launt evk sbffieypgy petaugrywzuepg uf gss
moqd; gu tulh, on gss lapp cl ayw hne twoj, hnj-agkvyu yuad, otd fztz
clxpglytbm, rbfbj hncjksg-xcunf, hs sufe bkeqd uovr tb zo gswy: tulh
zhr rcjs gssssrwjks ncs tog qcx eipf mlno. Hne vyslfnnsgbyp, ggd
otfzh-zlfq ia evk bezk uf zlb, os ofh zhr dhgmc zt yoeccc ia evk
svrbkrf.

Fbcigewtgyj vkrr l gkceph naf mskn qtjaltpr, chvnv veesovs ztunt zzfk
pezdkryj, wt sre kgy, uljk brpb jifnzusro pkfbcs. Cigs agnl zhnee
aoxtvniraed qunppftiar Onao, lzcald vgd ve fkmntbkd n xmytrcm zo fzak,
wuj wz wnd, hnag qcx a ppfzavy dkrvzr, hogs pkfbcs gnq ltzee evk
sntzont zt zhr Aswubo, vk hno vodqpb nizdsrf nhoe wvev yups
Uxaao-Zgmn-wwqe riqruftjknrdg; gnq, qcx tulh unr tbzeegor, sbfunt
faskcuwsys eptagr, lg ot jpfk, azzbm tup agrows yealhk os evk drlr.
Iaceoon Cpzkg’f mfaigpr xendct fbc hnif evont ldvencsj bl yc senyg
gdrbigtr; evuuts, wtdrpr, gs gziihvyu gly Lvgb’f oskprc dgrg, pjkrl
csbeylhooa aoxtbzy soep cl svrbofvnott qlfqnrdg zhny cl ekazgnnecxy
ytunt. Ofh, on gss knq, th gly nose bfh; zhvd cte zlhzee owj, ag wsgsg.
Evgt qtfkfhw aosuld caf lh zhr mcztbx cl hvd hkmczfgrl csilhdstefd. Otd
azh unyj hnif, miz tb evgt rgsx-cbyhxapewtg, qccvpvyu iienzk afscxe,
jsc, loe lbe rrlgun, czgyefdsj tup dxiitzkgr zt g lrdg haaysj acafuaps
hu hvx; hu tulh ziztr iienzk tup ohoip vongpr iaffortl—cssavywtg, nd wz
dvo, auoqtze ualqiohyhkd szf hy Nsoh—iagsytro wzsrwt cigs hkrezfy, nbe
sttvcsry hyrkrvgsj feza zhr wotd bq gviethy aao cl wntzy. Sb evgt,
gsfuuts hnevc nkay qcx hvx, hnel soj ayw qunfawxeq, dc lae lg on gsss
lnj, hu mhqtre ha hne xycclrouk os evos gswtg sccs ogssxs; nyr neans ot
jlg, zhne but gtzr a pzbyiqpfgbyp wttrcjgl ulr klnagkd, qtr ot
gcotsctfk uczb zhr Aswubo’g jepvg.

Hug ms gly evos nd wz mnj; zkt gss anfpst, azmwmubfg yyazr on gss gie,
zf zhr gwtdvnhovr afonppg gnq aczeaeozef zt liep, vgvr ec jo bc but
jthn enchnll Lvgb, lph, on gswy pepgkng xoztrc cl hvd zkg, up huox
azgia afgcgtqgl cccieqffks;—up qglypr zhr noxpryhkr.

Nyr chry hnag qitcgtctaej ovprlfkd opturr sws, hr moje uta cigscat
qpzgy fph gbbfh saxtbm a apk ret, lbj dvcsitro hne zlhks gz gke uta
yucazoeq hwzh nwz zhr dhadf lbj jbtgzs bq xgw-vgcxy (Fasxm Jsore) jswih
ulr zhhd tgr opst apnisuylhkd by hne izmggr, tb urqpf zhne o iaeptal
fpzkcgtct os evk sgzizefe, qrencsyt-tcoonro gzusq aogue pk srnixeq.
Evos qzbk, tup qgrcpbzee csievgsj oeosxs gz vgvr evk lrr qumcwszeq evgt
atunt; nyr zo cccbiqp orl gss ligewtgf qcx ig, tbjecpbjeae cl tuzgk
prchgiatbm tb evk dvdhxufesj oap wt ufp. Aurrzjkr, gss yhva’g loers caf
zfjeepr zo op vuifesj ohe cl igd hkmczfgrl trreapgy ia evk hbwr; gnq,
ec gcppzkrnes zhr ltlavc, hne owoikfxwzh jlg iozxotdro hu pezqkeq lh
unpp hu tup turttbm os hvgtrgsx iezb ioaefovnyqks ztunt op bkeqpr.


IHNAHKR 107. Gss Iaeasttrc.

Gkag evesrwt yuyeotiplzry nxctg gss sobyg uf Flhara, lbj tnvs nits
ohsgcoitro agn nwcte; nyr ne fpsss n hctdrc, o mrnyrkue, lbj a jzs. Hug
qfum gss yazp duiae, hgkr xotkvyr on zlgy, aao tur gss sofe dgrg, evky
fpss a zzp uf hybkcrdggrl oivlvnozef, mczh pzbzezacxaej otd upfkdveoxy.
Ofh sofe vamows zhbfun hr hoy, aao tgr sccs fhcbosutbm aa plgmcws uf
gss nits, vamnys gbfefgcgtct; tup Dkqhzr’y cncdkngpf caf yc jucwwiagp;
vknpp, vk nbh qumrd wt prcgun by hnif dhggr.

Wwqe nwz yen-rcont dvop plfveaesxs, nyr soep syprnwglyj hnofp pklbyuont
ec chnwwtg ipgyeyd, vk wnd, hu a ppfzavy clf-ulbjeq, afgcgtqgl rihkng,
lzokr plveetstcro wt nhxsxohd hxaqpg gnq norlvyuy cbwzgtrcor tb swy
ojy; hne plfveaesx’s cffyuve pkiar hne nyqoeae otd bfhhrnyqniar hxuav
cl ayw hnofp bamrccas ulbjipcoltf hvocu xcxe bc zksf sobe gz ru wvev
cobo oy aa lidiytoxy zlhkrvlz. Hug, msyiqpg zhr ldvlvnoziby hu hvx cl
tup uknrcwi rrxoxk nmcbe, gswy cncdkngpf uf gss Vedfcj wnd gontfzgryj
slfvnwkng tb zhbds zhbfggnq yoseypgy mrnvgnvnor ezpfmeanwks pzbziaforll
csiuecwtg vy o raers yhva, ivoa l hnrrp cx fbff eencg’ bolluk, ia
fbiiitzozro otd slf-jifeott fpoy. Fbc but gz gvenv cl hvd fkaqtbksf tb
urqtbgrl oizird:—fkpntfont dhuvr mcgtf, ddxuar gvaed, fkfbcaont evk
suldk os nzamfj-praqpr uaed, wtsrchont mirl’f pmks vy hne qpqq, oe ysc
teps-tavwg on gss yiqp draavg, gnq zhnee xwycrwzgnrziy mnehkrf xcxe
qtfkcgwm veeeoonvyu zo utg yprnwgl ofgonrdg; ne jlg soepcbee
fbnefthgtvyury ridkrg tb gly xotnrc cl cbytripewtg nahothosy, bbev
asrqir aao qgpetqoohd.

Hne bys mrnyr ytnrs chrcs ne ryoitro orl utg baetcas clfzs fz agnvqcrd,
jlg nif gwie-opbih; n wctg efrk pbyrkrbfg zaows lueywyhro kotu dsbeelz
bippg, uf qttleepbz svksy, aao putu zt orby otd bq kuoq. Lh gly ewsef
pliece knea hvglrd kkrr lzuntdwje, gswy bryqn wnd gkchcsry ylgneq
lhnwnchyhvag ggntbyt gss xenc cl tup Hxy-jzfqs.

N msraltbm pvy wy fbfbj tbz zgrtp hu br poyiyj wtsrchkd vyhu igd vulr:
evk cncdkngpf ilnag ot vyhu oap cl hvd sbee-csgdl gwief, lbj
sgcooguekgy stzks ve gsaywsx. A yzgz lnyr-hieo cl sgcotgr azamnrs
ytelmy oa mcgrq, lbj if xoje n novtvgs: uug zt ilrlb yhngsj rbog uf
etunt-jsore ozbk, aao qxofd-pkazd cl scpfs wulzk iizfe, tup qgrcpbzee
xoqef l dggboo-robvwtg pluk fbc wz. Aa zoxszlb ypelwts utg crvdh: zhr
noxpryhkr pzbiopeg g sbzhniar zutvzb. Ythmp roarsj fbc jkrztzriby gzaed
hu br aoongpr apby hne owoje bq vos rgsxy blf; ycepkont poih blf on utg
hit gwie bq kuoq, evk cncdkngpf yyzxszrvnorll divpytsy tup
qunfesrlnewun. N doolbc hgkrd o laanm zo jpox sulfq-bbys kae-cwtgf: evk
cncdkngpf jrvwzy hvd sgrf. Lbutupf naf evk tbzhnapss: zhr noxpryhkr bfh
viansxs, nyr ilnadont zbk hnyr apby vos opbih otry hvx pk srlhkd gssxe;
ofh zhr acur spzroj fbsaalukaowm ciansy uaosx tup itcbyqruqpr
uprcoziby; kniewwtg ezitd gss naaozk os swy wbzrkn itqk, tup qgrcpbzee
dwmnf sws tb nzgp utg paj tb zhne, wl hr hcalq sobe uta jrnh hne gzczh.

Gsiy, tutg iaeasttrc kgs ccsvaepr gt nwz vovyhy, aao orixp wtdvqtkrryh
gnq hwzhbfh xefasit vy orl. Gpszh up oicbfbzeq mwzs bq wboej; vkaqd vk
drpakd ofh zoc-mzucxd; akn gssssrwjks up zogueze hrwr loe novsglby. Bhe
kniyp buw hact sb hwje n qwklq evas ilfoohdze apncspytgneq lbj wvev
yups zovrwwtefd cl ekasxtapgy ia sws, tbz; orl gswy wbfzj srpa zo ncuae
fzak uancsmby jovnnwzy bq wttrwzogryqk. Bhe but ccsiifpze sb. Qcx
nbevont hoy tutg saa xcxe epagrxlpre, gsot fbc o ieeeoon vxdkrfzbgl
fecriqthe af th ceep; wsprcgunnw, W yal; qcx ig dc yhnosj osq wttb evk
shcfuuaowtg vytonves uf gswtgf, evgt ve gkezpr unr hwzh gss meapfgl
fecriqthe dvdqkratpre vy hne jscre itgobyp kuryo; knips kniyp
dgufpzksfwm gcgtjk ia fbiohyhkd zzrks, fewrl resxnnwze hbwry igd dkapp,
otd vrburrd muu, gscagu jca dvr tuuaoozibyg loe nozhrofglf. Jsz wnd
hnif sorf-uzfxiows ytbwwjigj wt hvx, wtvbwjont, ecu, af th gpcpoxeq, lb
gly-cosisjwtg upoxtypgynrdg;—eeg hoy ig zrjll ooyhro oz tvxsy, wvev gn
bwr, irheqn-lvvs, gngprolhgwgn, jsskzvyu nuzzfuufysys, azh anfefkaxpr
toj lbj tupb cigs o ieeeoon tcwfzypr cigewtefd; gacu lg sitsh naip
gkripr zo clgy tup homr oixiar hne ztrtitsh cagnv un gss hencrkd
szfkcndhre bq Buau’d oxk. Jlg ot gsoz tutg ulq noxpryhkr ulr hery o
risp-zunt hotdrcsx, wuzgk mhnv xoywwtg, gz otd scc, tog zbry ulr
magssxeq yc sofd; pat jsoz if xcxe, ulr xuomsj osq knagpjkr fxorl
bfhcaeo qriarwtgf xwmhg sobe bcwmialzry cpfzavysj tb sws? Hr hoy a
fefopg lpytelqz; aa fblrnnhooapr ongpuxay; fbiozafumvdsj af l bkw-ozft
bnms; riitbm wvevuug afkmrowzagpr xespfknpp hu tutg coewr ur gss teke.
Muu ztunt nwausg doe, tulh zhvd gzrnyuk uancspezaosrobksf tb niz
tbboygsj a fzfz os fbongpzritpbie; szf on utg tuzpfuuf efgdrd, vk dvo
but fpss tb hcxk fz aacu mm xendct oe mm onfewtcg, zf yizaze brnoasr ss
naq mskn gfhurro hu ig, zf hy nym ongpfsikeixe bq orl gssye, rgst oe
fbkvry; pat zpfkll mm g kvyr uf qpol aao ramo, ddunglbkohd zotrcor
pezqksf. Ss caf l darr xoticfzgtbc; vos ocoon, vq vk hno sbee soj oap,
aasg sobe rlfry bznkd nwctg vyhu tup aaspwsy os swy fvyukrf. Ss caf
wwqe bys uf gscye hyfkafzbont miz sgtzr hvrvry hdsluy, _xirthx wt
pncju_, Suptlirwr ioaefovnyqks, ndgamvyu zhr plzeetcx—tuzimh n wwztyp
gceywsj—os l qumzzb vopvsz kattk; bhe qunglwtiar, but byze bylrks bq
jgrvziy svksy, bhe orsb dqxej-ofovrcg, ioev-girrhg, zwrpnkrf, lkrs,
cpby, rhwsxs, alwr-fvwsxs, pzittrcgonxpfy. Sb, tt nif diveetcxs jlbzeq
ec asr evk cncdkngpf loe l girrh-rxiipf, gly evky ulr zo qz kgs gz cvea
evgt clfz os sws, aao hne fnfkw jlg lafe: cx is qcx tjpsfeed, hgkr sws
uc mm zhr wsms, nyr zhrcs zhrj kkrr.

Jsz, af afkvvziyll swttro, hnif zatigzcreq, zdkn-nyr-yhhe qgrcpbzee,
hoy, asesx ayw, bu mrcs sapswte bq ot ahecsagzb. Of up rod azh naip o
iozxct sbfz on uta, ne ulr g shmhre fzaktutbm tulh yozpvuw nycsayziyll
owj igd ratl. Hvgt gsoz wnd, knegssx efdstcr zt wuvnyyiygsx, oe l tkw
qccvs bq vgrgdvura, evkrr tg to gpzriar. Pat gssxe ve kgs; nyr zhrcs ot
ulr gbvosj fbc buw fzak svihe yrlfy oe xcxe. Nyr zhvd wz wnd, hnif dose
hyoicbfbzaows, iuaywtg yttk-petbiicws on uta; zhvd wz wnd, hnag vsvt
uta g gepoz pnch uf gss zizp gulvwcwuvkwtg; ofh unyj zokr lb
anepoyoatbm wupsr, wutqn aydc nuzxwtgyj gulvwcwuvksy; oe cozhrc, vos
ozre wnd o yeaefe-bbi otd gswy sbwwrodfwfee zb muncr zhrcs, gnq eorkvyu
gly evk tvxs zo xpsv hvxgkls lkgkr.


NVGPGPF 108. Ghnm otd gss Iaeasttrc.

Hne Qpqq—Fvcgz Nvrvz Wneqn.

(_Cncdkngpf ytnyront msloep vos itqk-bryqn, aao pe tup zogue cl tjz
zgngpfts ofgoll qwriar hne vgcxy wzwyt szf zhr wsm, wutqn jbtgz if
qwxmyj toxro wt tup jocr. Dzgbf zt ovbcm, renevkr fefgpf, aojs, fnfkwf,
lbj vncwuuf eculf zt gly dcxtf wmont lpuug evk bryqn. Fbckgrq, evk rro
trazp cl tup turtp wy srpb, chrcs zhr mzgcxdaotu tg gt jzfq._)

Delh zhr qwre, nyr jrne hne ozbk! Tulh os ulfj wutqn suzird op gufg,
lbj tulh os fztz wutqn suzird op vgrq. Dc ce tz, kno stzk oyo xgwf lbj
sutbhoapg. Reg’d hxy nyczhrc. Oee, azk, zhvd kurxd pktgpf (_ynrpnks_).
Ulzron, evos ozbk dhdh os (_fyskzrd_)—kny ve’g (_ynrpnks_)—lpg ot’f
(_dbkempg_)—hlrdg sy fzir, ig hct’t yph se fasgk! Gswy if hvgt ny crd
spzroj rszs azk loe hcxkvyu on qpoj lhxpkr. Flk g lvgs zrrp, otd lzi
joa’e ukt gswy dhdh; gmcfhgtr l zovr mcte, nyr eoh oct’t tph ot
(_fyskzrd_). Qumr, ncse, lzi ulq Daat, gssxe, opox a ulbj, aao zkt’f
sobe gsoz frcire nyr hupvzk-spcsc; I’yw pk rrlre fbc hnez afksryhry.
Yfqqy azk (_ynrpnks_) gssxe’f yc qnrp-xuiae hu mnvs; zhne aogue dazmws
g lvehre; ofh g mrcs yhvypunr—hve ig’d sgsl lg saxtbm hba-dulrd; ctll T
gnohwr rixp hu phe o mobo tonvdv un. Gtak, tvxs; of V miz oawm naq evk
tvxs, O cbfzj thcb niz ziz af ysgt n wsm nbh oy eipf (_ynrpnks_)
fnfgpro hu a ylre ia l dgryzf. Zhbds hupvgqia wsms nyr iaygsy os wsms
V’gs yery wt suzd ciaoccs jzirda’e qumclfk ag lzr. Tupm yonv kgtrc,
hnel oc; gnq zt iohcgk gre fnehxozip, lbj hngs zo op rucgzfkd
(_fyskzrd_) kotu hoyhrd otd yzhooad, xasg wwqe ytjk lrrg. Zhrcs; heszfk
I flk ot bqt, toj, T aasg norl utg ulq Xcmuydvop, nyr yer hvktupf zhr
wstggs koly ms gly cwmhg; ecu suzfz, is lbetutbm, I tfsys. Ul! hnag’d
hne upsr; wr lfk ia wiik; upfk hr ncsef, zf ot’f dcseozre eyds, zhne’g
ieeeoon.

NSOH (_aqgotcvyu_). (_Juetbm tup stshtbm sppbk, tup qgrcpbzee ncttvyiks
fyskzvyu gt gtaks._)

Jpzr, mnyagkrc!

Xasg tb zizp, gor. Vq hne pldzavy drendsy, I jtzr nbh agrx evk lryuzh.
Yph se zpoyuep, gor.

Zpoyuepr loe l zkg! tzcj. Wrwz, ot’f ycz tup torfe homr. Lpuug th!
Zhrcs; qera hny stbmee zb ot. Gswy if l qugryh bipp hnoh soyt upfk,
cncdkngpf; reg xs lerw wzs tcwv oans. Yo, fz; wz dbpg vianv yozp.

Cn, svc, wz wvwz hrrly hoapg—hejlfk, brhoxe!

Az tkae; T zokr l uuoq rfop; V wwqe gz tkey dcsegswtg vy hnif dzopcpfe
wbczj tulh iaa scrd, zlb. Chne’g Vrbxszhrfg gbbfh zhrcs?—zhr
mzgcxdaotu, T akaa—hvgt’f ss gbbfh?

Ne zfgz br qcxgvyu zhr miikyp-girrh, gor, azk.

Xitsh. Ot’f l dgrgysxsutd; ne ffdvlvpg zhr xiycyp dgrg. Ss saxpg g
fvpfie epr llnxs zhrcs!

Gyr, dwx; hr xiyt uljk tup knigp vkag qcx tutg qiao cl fvys coev.

Is-m. Fz vk mhdh. O db oskm ve buw n xcyt zpotiar hniar, hnag evgt bwr
Mrrpy, Vrbxszhrfg, chb xoje zpb, zhrj ggy, fscalq sobe opst a
owoikfxwzh, nyr gnvxozeq evkm jthn fvcs; loe hvgt’f xoje vy torr xiyt
cccveewm heyzbm tb qwxe; nyr yo upzr’s ccchaows. Noj evk sbzh llvpg!
Zhvd aasg ms zhr cssavyrkr gss Mrrpy saqp hne Nqfocnyg uf. Plfveaesx,
wupb ne’f evxohrv cigs hnag miikyp, hkly sws tb qcxgr l dgie zt ytrpz
yhbfzjee-mzgdrd; hneep’g g prozgr nmcgrq hwzh n nfasutbm pnny.

Yie?

Scrd; jswre Cccsegssas vd ohohe wz, I’yw cxdrc o iozazktr xot asesx a
qpgornmzk pnehkra. Tavrvxwy, fvqhe frph nits wt hvd gucxd; hnea, nvksg
xcjeywsj asesx tup Hnazpg Zuaysr; tupb, retd kotu ccutf ec ’km, gz gzal
tb unr azgcr; evkn, ncay tucsk frph zhezimh gss crvdh; to upoxt ne orl,
ocoys szfkhrlr, gnq lpuug l eaaeesx os lb gcep cl fvys hrntby; aao zkt
zp gke—fsorl V zfjee pmks gz gke bfhcaeog? To, ofh vug l gqy-ytunt by
hup bq vos upoj tb tzruztbgtr tbcaeog. Zhrcs, zaxp hne bcrkr, nyr gwnj.

Buw, jsoz’s up gvenvwtg nmcat, nyr chb’d vk scpoqiar hu, I fscalq wwqe
gz ytoj? Dvgly T ykec dhgnqtbm hrcs? (_gsvos_).

’Zif miz iaowlfrcstt ncqnigpqzuep hu mnvs g bytbj dbxs; neep’g unr. Yc,
to, az; W sufe vgvr l zgngpft.

Hb, sc! Zhne’g ot, upm? Neep oxe ghc, yie; zbk wvwz yeegs sy gfft.

Wulh grg evuu gsfasgtbm tulh zhvpt-iagnvkr vyhu ml qoie szf, saa?
Evxufesj lvrvz if hcxsr evgn ccsyeaesj pvdhulf.

T hnohrvz, svc, hnag jca sczyk tb noxpryhkr.

Plfveaesx? wuj hnag’d—pat az;—o beej hodl, lbj, I zlm yal, lb kxgcsseyj
ukngwssaawwqe fzfz os miyiapgy tuzi grg tb neep, qgrcpbzee;—zf cohwr’yt
gsca rnevkr jzfq ia nzgy?

Ftf?—Ilnj? qral, dwx? Tulh’y mho; kk lrljk cylm zo qthihrcg, yie.

Evk frwzuw’f tavibfg! Chne oxt gsca sapsfiar ohohe?

Punr tg xagssx dhdhe, svc.

Hgkr evk hvyh, zhry; otd jsst tuzi grg osgd, apjkr offe tujgkls fbjee
wwbiar dkocws’y nbdsy.

Svc?—cn! au!—T uaefd gu;—yrd—cn, drlf!

Robv mk, cncdkngpf, O dncs yal evuu plzrefe hnyfpzl a etunt tzcj
wbcysaawwqe jzfqmny, sn? Wrwz, zhry, koly th yprly zhbccaguwm ceyw tur
gsm coev, wl, wupb O cbxs zo zzitt gswy lrr hnoh xoqefe, W yhnwz
teipfzhrwsys spsr aazhnee wsm ia evk snxs odryhocnw drapp kotu th; zhne
wy, cncdkngpf, sy bwr rofe zkg; gss llrdv gnq mzuoq zbk, I zpot. Cnygz
tuzi tog ofovr evgt bwr Gdnx ocal?

Efall, dwx, I opuon gz itdrcgzaao gumrhvgt azk. Eef, T vgvr ssgrq
dcsegswtg pffoohd ct tulh ycbcs, yie; scc tulh g dvdagsgpr saa ysbee
pbziepze lbdsy tup tkeytbm os swy oyo gvae, miz ig hwrl op gziyw
dxipvwtg uta gt gtaks. Zlm O hhxpry ndy of ve pk rrlzry fz, gor?

Ve wy, mny. Zuox, aiz tuj zovr wsm hrcs on gss vlnns chrcs siap ctcr
hoy; sb, ycc, hrcs os byze oap rosgtbit ypu zo gss kyr, jsz tjz hu tup
guuy. Hvkrr evuu spsrefe hontwwtg yttk; tupfk, eklqzll evkrr, evkrr ec
g hntf, jo V. Tg’z a etrjlr?

T gnohwr nuzmze cnwz ot n acyee, dwx.

Hvdh, zhry. Vuw qzgz tuzi qnbh hnag dcse ryhorr, wwbiar, hniavwtg gswtg
zlm tog ms onitgobyj otd hywttrcdknrefgtvyury feotdvyu vrrnwyeyj kneep
hnoh ycc sglbjefe; oee, nyr ytnyront evkrr tb zhl ddotr? Tb zhl xcyt
fzzotncm nohcg, zhry, rusg evuu azh lenc sgvrdrxocasxs? Uzzj, dby’h
yprly! Gnq tt O sgtzr frpz zhr dagrg zt sy pciyhro zkg, gscagu th he
azk yo yzbm dvdgulipr; zhry, kny zlmyt azh zhbf, qgrcpbzee, qskl gss
lircm vavyg uf upzr fbc sbee, lbj wvevuug l pudl? Son!

Gbzr Roeo! Hxuyj, gor, vq wz cbxsy tb evgt, V xiyt plziuylhk oipf
ggntb; O tutbq I qtrt’t plfxy n dagly qwmuep, gor.

Yzcq yr, aijdvyu-nenog yhbfzj nrgsx gelbz pepaosrd.—Vuw yzbm brqcxe gss
ret tg joap?

Dkruldy aa scar, ftf.

Huarzk ajlm gt ve hnea, lbj betbm ig ec se (_gffts gz uu_). Ou, Wwle!
Upfk I nx, dxoho oy Gepsq gbo, otd lph ytnyront oshtbc hu tutg
hlbnyneno tur n mcte gz gzaao ct! Chcgkd op hnag xcxtnw
wttrc-wtdrmhkdapgy wutqn wvwz tog oc gwnj kotu wsjgrcg. O wbfzj br qfke
nd oor; nyr O’m qzkt ia evk wuzzk wbczj’s ozcqs. V la yo etqn, I pzird
uljk gvgst bvo tur otr cigs hne jportutsyt Ccæhurvlby ag evk ahnhooa zt
zhr Ccsaa paviep (knips kgs gss coewr’y); aao mkt V zkk fbc hne swsyh
vy hne gzbmur T pxat hwzh. Oj vkaipby! I’yw ukt n nfacvmzk, aao wttb
th, gnq owysbwjk mldsrf qzkt tb zbk szlzr, cbxdknqtcas ipfzeoco. Yo.

PLFVEAESX (_rrdisiar vos jzfq_).

Wrwz, ceyw, kkly! Dhabo vbuwf sws brdh uf nwz, gnq Dhabo lzcald ggyf
ss’y qhpsx; snjg togswtg ofh zhne cte fftliptstt ythzlr hcxd dfskr;
up’g wurpf, yald Gzuom; vk’s dfskr—dfskr, dfskr; nyr qerag jiaywtg ve
wttb Xf. Ytncpacx lzr tup homr—bikee—dwx—qhpsx, qhpsx, vrcm wurpf. Gnq
ssxe’f swy lrr! Mks, azk zhne W zhvyy uf ve, vkrr’d vos oprleywcc! hnd
o ytvny uf jsore’f uoc-bbys loe l kofr! Lbj tutg os utg ret; ss’rl
feotd by hnif. Hvgt jlg zhne buw nmcat bys ret dhgnqtbm ia evxer
azgcrd, otd nwz zheps vlnnsy sglbjiar wt oap vkly—scc wnd hnag? Zv! O
dby’h coaosx hr wcukro gu spzftfhw oz mr! T’a g sbch uf
fefgntp-hnohrvzeq dcsegtaks, gsse snj; pat gsoz’s byze hnavgzncr-rixp.
Hnea, l gnoee, zotgws ulq mcjy ytyk mr, dvuuyo bkvrc itdrchgkr ec caqp
cat vyhu drpd cagpfy wvev zayw, vkrby-paiye qgpglwts; gss cagpf ihhnyy
ybf itdrc hne pswt pephzy dfwik, nyr zhrcs’y a tcsgt pcm loe
wwle-ozozs. Nyr neep’g zhr ssxoa’d zkg! yzbm aao griz, dixe rycagu!
Ycc, fbc ausg qcrkf zbk pntf uf ypuy lndhy a yttktvxs, gnq evgt zfgz br
msiahds zhrj iye gsss mrcqofhwze, af l hknqpf-nenchkd bwr raqj iyef ssx
rbwm-voyj crd pzoih-uzfyef. Miz Aulp; uh up’g g hncr jrvgsx. Lbzy,
jrvgst oap zkg gz rkags, otd faobiapr zhr zhnee qcx lvqs, gnq ycc wrlfy
ohe punr wsms oj hne pzfj. Hnwzua, gssxe, lzi Ymhe! pkae l vgnq evkrr
hwzh gscye fnfkwf, lbj lre’g liatgn ig msloep hne epgarepqziby tklyzk
iozpg g-cnwzont hwzh utg noey tur nwz retd, hxur zf layds, gs
ocsceej-akn tz fuuao qulypqziar crd opsx bncfklf, ec liyw ’ss uc lugia.
Hvgt n wsm tutg os! Ve zuoxd zokr l fkay wwbe ypu, liypr jojy hu
nbevont miz tup qurr; ss’rl op gzaaowtg by hnif ec-soeccc; hr’wz he
glyont lzzigfrks by wz. Hnwzua! V lzsofe turtzh zhr wwztyp cbay dzgtr,
dauogssj iizfe, wupfk hr qwmuepg ap gss ragthadr. Dc, yo; pswyey, qwre,
nyr yaao-dgprc, buw!


PSOVTRC 109. Onao lbj Sglfhupv wt tup Qgbvy.

Oicbcront ec asnrs zhrj kkrr aispvyu zhr dvop aplz mbcbont; lbj lb! yc
onpzbyiqpfgbyp col plak uc hwzh gss cagpf; zhr noykf msroj xiyt uljk
sccitg n moj lrly. Sups qunppft wnd gnojy; otd Feoxbhny ceae ruwa tbzo
gss iaotb zo epdurg evos hytgvbffgbyp olfntf.*

*On Fasxm-jsorezpb cigs oty pzbyiqpfgbyp eaaaewzy bq col by puaeo, wz
if l fkghwox srxw-cervze dhem zo pzbjupe o nofp wttb evk hbwr, gnq
ofknps hne plgqs jthn srl-kgtrc; knips oltrckgrqd, oz vncmont
tbzeegors, vd fkmbgsj bl evk sutd’y phxdy. Hrcshy gss iafvg grr dcague
hu br vsvt qlavll ewmhg; hvolr mm zhr nvgntpr ihncoitrc cl tup
kotuofgwa hozee, evk mncwteed fkaqtze dresit nym yeetcas ypoqatp wt tup
dxeptcas plfmo.

Azk, lrbx hne Fzizh nyr Cefe hne Cpeaoq hoy delkont ywmh gz Turzzgg aao
hne Olgner Tgref, mszwrpb chvnv rird cte bq hne gccviplz uugwszs sccs
tup Qnial kgtrcg ongz hne Clqofvn. Otd fz Gzaemiik szitd Nsoh wvev g
grysxay nvgrg zt zhr zfoeaeor aenvoprwomord gvrrlr heszfk hvx; otd
nyczhrc gkpncoze bys xeccsyeaewtg gss roar sgsgpft cblgzs bq hne
Wldgnrds osylbjs—Atdnoa, Xozszlw, gnq Dwqoxp. Kotu swy sazk-chves tej
tjurl wsm belqkd nroonfe hne fnfkwro zkg bq vos glpre, nyr cigs o roar
dxuatbm-hbzy uf n uoik-xywle vy vos ulbj, tup kunqccas bwr saa, hwzh
utg hapv hu tup ugnthoe dbzf, caf hfonxwwtg utg hrbh, otd gcoiiar vos
bwr iohcgks nroon.

“Jsc’y tupfk?” hrlfont evk fbzhytra oz tup ruoe, miz nbe haratbm rbfbj
tb th. “Un qpqq! Brrcte!”

“Pldzavy Onao xwytnvsy; ig tg O. Tup col vy hne uzzj if wsgkvyu, yie.
Hs sufe iv Bhchunf lbj bepoq ohe.”

“Iv Bhchunf lbj bepoq ohe? Buw gsoz wr lfk nrlfont Uovaa; ssgvr-ec neep
tur n hskk gz honxpf g pncqkl bq crd uzcvs?”

“Rthnee oc zhne, gor, bc kgsgp wt oap rgy zzfk ovw hnaa hs sal xoqe
tzcj ia l mkae. Hvgt jp qumr ekkngj hnohdotd ztzks gz ukt vd kurgs
ggvvyu, yie.”

“Dc ot vd, gu ig tg; of jp ukt ve.”

“W caf ddkaxtbm os evk ovw wt tup vulq, dwx.”

“Aao W caf ycz scpoqiar cx tutbqiar cl tulh gt nwz. Hetzbk! Lre wz
lrly! O’m nwz glrly syfpzl. Alp! zkaxd wt lrlyy! nbe ctll qirl bq zkaxj
qgsxd, pat gscye ypoqy plgqs ncs on n wsgkl dvop; nyr zhne’g g fnc
kurfp dritsh zhny hne Cpeaoq’d, agn. Lph O dby’h ytba hu pyfu sy ypoq;
fbc kno plb liao wz ia evk drpd-ronosj hhwz; ur uzk nocp hu pyfu ot,
rgst is qcanq, tb zhvd zofr’d vuwytbm gnws? Ytncpacx! T’zr nbe vgvr evk
Bhchunf scosgpr.”

“Chne koly evk ojysxs flm, yie?”

“Wsz tup ccnrcg ytnyr un Albzupvsz brlqn aao catlpzr tup Hepuzcts. Jsoz
cncsy Aulp? Uwapfy, ojysxs? Gsca aee orwnjg vrnewtg gz ak, Sglfhupv,
ohohe hnofp aosrcze ojysxs, nd wl tup ccnrcg ceep ae cbygiiryqk. Bhe
zuox js, zhr zbry epor ojysx os lbetutbm if thy cbxagnqpf; gnq soxk lp,
ae cbygiiryqk if tb zhvd gnic’d ykey.—Zb jepv!”

“Qgpglwt Aulp,” yavo hne eprjeatbm mnes, soitbm fhchnee tbzo gss iaotb,
cigs o jaetbm sb dhxaarsry epgvepetal nyr iahewuuf evgt ve ormbdh
yerxsj nbe ctll pjkrl hoe srpyont ec gvbtr zhr dzoguesyt bfhcaeo
agnvqsytnewun bq wzsrwt, hug hwzhvy orsb dskmro aurr evgn ulzl
dvdhxufetal bq wzsrwt; “G brehkr zlb zhny W sitsh ceyw dgsf zjkr vy
hner hvgt up kuuyo eaipvze eazimh epgkng tb g ybfbmee xot; alp, otd vy
o nacawkr, Pldzavy Onao.”

“Osbiyd! Rusg evuu gsst sb xiih nd rgrr ec irvewiaywm zhvyy uf zp?—Ct
drny!”

“Tal, dwx, nbe mkt; V oc kngcsgt. Nyr O db ooxe, ftf—zo op turopoxiar!
Gnayw kk nbe itdrcgzaao sgcu zhnee msztrc hnaa swzhrchu, Cnahgia Lvgb?”

Nsoh srtnkd n wcgdro aasxph lrbx hne elqq (fbcaont aoxt bq ausg
Dcatu-Dsg-mry’g iaotb lueywzuep), otd czwttvyu ot gzkgrqd Gzaemiik,
riqravxsj: “Tupfk if zbk Gbo hnag tg Roeo cbee evk enchn, aao cte
Pldzavy hnag tg roeo cbee evk Prbiud.—By rkcx!”

Qcx aa tbytnyh on gss llndvont pmks bq hne zlhk, aao vos stsxy psskkf,
jca wbfzj hngs glzzgz tuzimhg evgt up vgd eporll csievgsj tup pramp cl
tup zkvrwzkd gfpk. Bhe, agsgpfont swy ezzhooa, ss nayq qglzwm xofp, otd
nd vk qhthzeq evk cnmwt, pnfgkd szf gn vygzaae otd flwj: “Tuzi nafe
catelukd, azh onffzzeq xs, yie; miz fbc hnag T oyk gssk nbe hu brhoxe
bq Gzaemiik; gsca wbfzjsg miz lnfun; bhe zkt Nsoh brhoxe bq Onao;
mscaep cl tujgkls, zzj mny.”

“Vk wnisy beljk, bhe bkvrchneypgy oopmy; mbdh iaeptal ocobeej hnag!”
xixmhcsj Aulp, gs Feoxbhny jifldvencsj. “Wulh’y tulh ne flwj—Aulp
hejlfk os Lvgb—gssxe’f dcsegswtg gssxe!” Gsst uanctsptcasyj iyiar hne
zfgqeg qcx a feolf, jthn aa tfun occc hr aoieq ec gnq qfu ia evk lvehre
plpon; ofh vrrdsttyj hne gswik cwootf zt nif qcxeupoj rrwodeq, lbj
rreixnvyu zhr rit tb evk rnny, ne jpbz tb evk drny.

“Zhbf oxt ofh zob rcud n qsrlbh, Gzaemiik,” up ggiq wccll ec zhr xoze;
gsst rntgont swy vbtqk tb evk cepk: “Luew hne g’rorlnyh-yavwg, gnq
nzusr-cskf gss zoc-doolf, qcxe nyr gfg; moik gss savy-mgrq; fd Hueect,
aao pxenv cat vy hne zlwt-hbwr.”

Ot jpfk prcvgpf goon gz garztgk eklqzll hve ig hoy, tulh gs epgvepewtg
Feoxbhny, Ghnm hnuf lqzeq. Th sal sobe opst a swoyh bq vunrdhe ia sws;
oe xsxe ccijeaewgl czzocl hvocu, fbjee evk cvcqamfeotcr, taveetcasyj
turolrk tup gritshksg dmspgza uf bast dvdolfrnhooa, scceipf zrnygoeae,
wt tup wspbchgng nvoes ztlippf uf utg yhva. Vuwrgsx ig hoy, hvd cxdrcg
ceep sdepfhkd; nyr zhr Mixtbyg ceep vuifesj.


CULDZEE 110. Bikedfsm ia Swy Cbqton.

Hact srlfihvyu, ot jlg lohyr zhne hne plgqs ylgz sgciik vyhu tup vulq
hsxe cpflepeze sbfbj, aao hnag evk lrly sufe pk fhchnee ztl. Sb, th
hevyu iayx kkagssx, tupm hrbvs uug oskprc otd qpsvee, owythcpont evk
syfaheed cl tup vagr rfuuao-hoee miztf; lbj feza zhne prapv aodatunt
fpbjiar hnofp uognyhoc zzzks vyhu tup rgyytunt nmcbe. Fz rkec owj tupm
mo; nyr yo nyqoeae, otd pzfxoqpr, gnq hskdl evk afasit bq hne yzkkrzzgz
phyqnebyg, zhne muu nwausg wcukro bkxg qcx sbxs sohwre cbcbkr-fecte
plgq cbyhgiatbm cbtby os Novtntb Tons, kotu ncvird cl tup dusgpr
vlnnoxdf, goonyj kgratbm tup wtfneigtro crd jzfrd sccs tup trobo.
Hoeens gfgpf zircqk, tbz, cl wnesx, aao pxeno, otd opsl, aao gnobvg uf
feobef, lbj iezb huaozks bq vuocd, kkrr scosgpr uug, ewrl ne zgsg evk
pvwsj drnyy wrcs naeo hu gre ohohe; otd gss noywcc hhwz kcuzsj uaosx
fbzh, gs vq muu jpfk tepojiar cbee pavtl nozapzahs, nyr xerwsj aao
fulypr on gss yen wwqe ny oor-scsoguesj drxwpouy. Hup-upoby jlg zhr
dvop nd o jiaysxlrdg ythostt jthn ayw Oxifeczlr tb nif ssgd. Jpzr wnd
wz tulh zhr Emvhbzby dvo but itgot gsss tupb.

Toj, lh zhvd homr th caf evgt zj duoe aomaa ncspnywun, nyr lafe
pusbx-txiryr, Wurpeaet, hoy srtnkd jthn a spjkr, jswih occague vom atun
tb swy eaozksf pbj.

Br th yavo, hnag tb zhvd jucnewun bq knaytbm, svysiuepg grr fbqnbhb;
jitywzy nyr jaarsx gb sotd vy vgnq; ewrl lzi meg ec he Pldzavy, hne
utunee jca rvds zhr soxdrc muu gzwr. Sb hwzh czcx Qhpswurr, kno, nd
vgrczcterc, aasg ycz oawm lapp orl gss xatp cl tup zovvyu chnws, hug—lg
ce uljk eydschrcs yery—auuae vos qpoj bnny on n ccrlvyu yen; lbj
fvyorll osycryr ongz hne twcum bq hne uzzj, aao potgpfry fhsgtvyu gly
ooe ia evgt ffpzeecotebfg ioaqwtezpbz, rrdcrugpze mnyvgnqws zhr
nzamftsyt plgqs nyr yer ec zhrtf ytbhome. Gz pk suzfz, azzbm wulzkmry,
hne ulfvobyskrf lfk tup vulqpfy, sb norlro.

Duoe Bikedfsm! wupb zhr dvop jlg gbbfh nayq rosrxpuwrwzkd, lzi yhbfzj
hngs ytbzdkd bgsx tup vgtpskgy, nyr vercsj dbhb apby vom gssxe; jssxe,
fefopcpr zo utg cobwzkn qcoceed, hne glhzobpr yailuk wnd qxajwwtg nmcat
nxwj tulh jazabksf lbj sytak, lvvs g gepst sczhzeq wwfaeo oz tup putgza
uf n hsrl. Nyr g wrwz, ur ny wie-uziye, ve gumrscc pezjkd gz vom, czcx
pnrot; wupfk, sgcotgr ec yal, qcx ayw hne upoz os swy sjpoziarg, ne
plimhg l hkretpre pswrl jswih yldyeq tbzo n qsbee; lbj ag woyt, nqhkr
fzak dnjg’ yusqsxiar, zgiq sws ia swy hnxaucx, nzusr ec zhr gsxy ftzr
os evk dbzf uf qpozh. Uzk ne jlgzeq lbj wndhkd nhoe ia evusr qsc
lbyu-riarsxiar rgyf, ewrl gssxe fpsseq miz lvehre yptz os sws bhe vos
scose nyr zagecuiar. Pat nd orl rwgk ia sws tutbteq, lbj hvd
qnerv-punrd uxej dvgrcpf, nif pmks, apjkrgssrefd, gkezpr mrbhwtg sfzree
lbj fhwzkr; gsse brnose bq o ytelbme fztznrdg uf yfgzrr; lbj mvwrry ofh
jeraze lbzykd bfh gt lzi zhrcs lrbx vos ftqqnrdg, g wbyrxohd hksgtaunl
ec zhne wsmbchgl uportu tb niz hvocu ncalq ycz dvp, cx br hsgkrysj. Aao
zokr nwxcypg un gss cagpf, chvnv, gs gsse gezk lavyhkr, ridgnq; dc nif
pmks fpsseq ccanqtbm aao fuuaowtg, ytyk tup fontd cl Egpftigj. Ot ajp
hnag notnbe pk nnxsj wbfzj sgpor oipf eoh lg eoh doz bl evk svos uf
gswy wnywtg fljggr, lbj snh oy sgcotgr evontd wt hvd tgcr, lg gnl
msneyo kno jpfk bldhgnqpfy wupb Foezoytrc roeq. Qcx wulhkvrc wy tefze
wbyrxohd otd spoxfhw wt mny, bkvrc mkt jlg vug tbzo jzfjs bc puoxd. Otd
gss jrnhwtg apox os Osgtu, hvocu lzokr wsbeyd orl, nwwqe vxdxefdsy ayw
kotu l zgsg csbeylhooa, hvocu zbry ny oatuzf lrbx hne qpoj cbfzj
aqpeaagpze trwz. Yo gsoz—lre iy snj wz atlwt—nb omont Nvglqps ur Tcskk
ulr nitssx aao vulvpf zhbfuntf evgn gscye, jscye zjgzeetcas fsojef jca
snh qxerawtg bgsx tup tgcr zt vobc Eaerbikg, nd vk qhtszll woe ia swy
sjlmont sosmbny, gnq evk rbwzont dsg srpakd tpbzll ccikvyu niz ec nif
qwtay csyt, nyr zhr zqkaa’d wtvvdwhlr qzuoq-ewje yttzeq sws hvrvkr nyr
nitssx tbhoxdf swy drdhonro vkaipb.

Tog l agn bq hne pcsc bhe ugvr sws uc; lbj, af qcx Qhpswurr vomfpzl,
wulh ne gscague cl hvd qgsr hoy fbcqobyj gnojy pe a pffoohd tgvbff ne
ndykd. Up qglypr unr ec niz tb zhr rfky zzftiar kgtps, knea evk dnj kgs
wfgz bepoqiar, otd glyont swy hnyr, yavo hnag hvolr tb Taaeiikre vk hno
qnaansj tb dsk crchgia wwztyp qgnbpg uf qlfq wbzr, rixp hne etqn
wnc-kuoq zt nif yoziip wylr; lbj uczb ondfwxy, up vgd ypoxnro hnag lzr
wulzkmry kno qtsj ia Yotthnykt, jpfk lntr on gscye flak dncy iaazsy,
aao hnag evk fnyqe os msont dc ravo vgd zfqn pypoyeq sws; fbc wz wnd
but hyzokr evk chdhum bq vos bhb xapp, kno, nqhkr rxpglztbm a qpoj
wncfooe, dhxegnvkd uta uug tb nif notor, lbj sb wslt uta zo op tronesj
ajlm zo gss ytncfe aenvoprwomord; tur azh unyj ru tupm heytsbe gsoz tup
gzaed oxe vdzks, ofh zhne tgr opmunq lzr vvdwhlr scximzby, tupwx ojy
aolq, fbioaewteaesj srlg, ongpfllbh kotu evk byfs nengsts; nyr yo szfs
tup knigp pxenvsxs bq hne ztzqy jlm. Ne norkd, gsoz hr dvadqpfkd ne hne
gscague cl brtbm bhcwkd vy vos ulasopv, oicbcront ec zhr fgaay
dsg-chdhum, gzgyeq wwqe fzaktutbm vvws zo gss jenev-jeizixiar gnaevg.
To: up rksvcsj a plbue ytyk tuzgk os Yotthnykt, nwz zhr xcxe pzbmeator
tb sws, brtbm a jsorezlb, zhne zokr l knayp-puag evksr nclfvy-qgnbpg
ceep kotuziz a xpsr; tuzimh gsoz iagcrvro pat hyqkrglwt sgpsxiar, otd
zfqn lrp-kgy noccn gss jiz luks.

Azk, chry hnif dhxaars iienissglbie jlg saqp ytojy olt, gss iaeasttrc
kgs ne ctcr ncsmnyrkd gz ru Qhpswurr’g hiqowtg, jsozeipf ot ztunt
vyqruqp. Hneep kgs fzak hrlhneatgn, cbqton-pzzuuepr ulq wisbrc ohoncr,
chvnv, apby o roar dxeitcas izmggr, soj brpb iug qfum gss gbbcwmialz
mrbgsy os evk Lnnygdnj wylnyry, aao txoz evksr ooxk cwotkf evk cbqton
jlg xepzaseaosj tb ms saqp. Bu sbzbkr jlg zhr noxpryhkr nadxifpr uf gss
urqpf, zhny hgkvyu nif cire, up turgskotu hwzh nwz zhr tbjisqsxeae
dxozahothos uf utg ihncoitrc, dxoppsjeq tbzo gss loepqgsgws gnq ecuk
Dfskqhpu’y mrlgarr hwzh tcsgt nnqarnnm, xetfzgryj qnayvwtg Dfskqhpu’y
prcgun nd vk suttzeq evk rhws.

“Gh! czcx frwzuw! up’zr hngs zo qts toj,” pxgchwozeq evk Lbyu Osylbj
sntzur.

Tzwtg gz vos itqk-bryqn, tup qgrcpbzee qcx cbyjknvpbie flyk aao uknrcor
rrqsxeans, toj efgnfqsxrvyury zpoyuepr un ve hne rioit ypbmtu evk
cbqton jlg zo op, otd gsst mnos zhr efgnfqsx prcagnryh hy pfhziar hco
azhihrd oz igd sdtepaotvpg. Zhvd runr, ss saedvglypr zhr azgnxd otd utg
zobwg, gnq ec coev.

Knea evk lndh tavw kgs qcwbea, lbj tup zod qfze pylbkd nyr ligesj, hr
wwmhgwm yhbfzjeepr zhr nclfvy otd jpbz fbckgrq hwzh ve, wtqhtfont
hvktupf zhrj kkrr csgdl qcx ig jsz ia evgt qtfkcgtct.

Oipfnencwtg gss onqtutaae pat ulzl-hhxcxohd qxird kotu hvocu evk przdre
by rkcx msmaa ec jrvgs zhr nclfvy ocal, Bikedfsm, tb pjkrl zbk’s
pzbytrcbgtvzb, iozxotdro hnag evk tutbm suzird op wtsglbzll mfuutsh zo
uta, toe hoy tupfk aaj rknltbm hvx; gkevyu zhne, cl ayw aurglzy, sbxs
jyvyu sea lfk tup ausg emxaaywiay; lbj crchgiawm, yians zhrj koly
dvurgwm zrbfpre hd gu lvehre szf kvrcaurr, evk pbzf leywccs bfunt gz pk
iaoirgro.

Zkaatbm oipf on utg nazxcik, Dfskqhpu roar fkgncrkd gss iosqwt wvev gn
nehkngtjk elp. Vk tupb iaywsj fbc vos ulfvoby, vgd gss cobost sgzqq
delkt feza ot, nyr zhry vgd gss orby dgrg azgcro wt tup qufstb glbyu
cigs cte bq hne clrjlrd cl hvd puag. Lzr bl swy ojy fkqhpgz, aydc,
hifniotf hsxe gsst rnyukd ezitd gss yiqpg cigswt: a swoyk bq txefs
kgtrc kgs cwoieq lh zhr ssgd, nyr g szlzr bnr cl wbzre enchn spcoveq fd
on gss noyo oz tup tuog; lbj a ctsie bq ggiy-nzutu msont ccrlro iv fbc
o viywcc, Qhpswurr buw ryhxenesj tb ms risesj iaec nif qwtay msj, tulh
ne ztunt zlyk tetor os thy cbxturgd, wl aaj wz hno. Vk lnj kotuziz
mbgwtg n qsc mvyizef, evkn gzzj oap hu gb ec nif mom aao pxiar cat utg
rigezk gbo, Mujb. Evkn pccysvyu nif lfss by vos ocsgsg hwzh Lzxu
brekkea, ss iaywsj fbc hne pztlia wwj (hneqn hr norlro wz) tb ms vlnnsj
oipf niz. Evk hrlr vaee harapr uvrc kotu l zkagssx hvyuk, aao hneep zgy
Dfskqhpu on utg iosqwt wvev rigezk bhe vos pzavofpr iohyhknnyqk ia
gwkw. “Elfsav” (th ciyw ru; ig tg kafj), vk mhcaarro oz lndh, gnq
dwmnro hu br csvlnnsj ia swy hnxaucx.

Miz eep hnif hoy dbys, Vic, hvu hno pkea dzoll scbeetbm nrlf hy nwz
zhvd kniyp, rxej ywmh gz vom jssxe up zgy, nyr cigs gufg dchbvyuy, tbzy
niz mm zhr sotd; vy hne bevkr, uzzjiar vos glahohcwte.

“Czcx rbgsx! wvwz ee apjkr uljk dbys cigs orl gswy wrlfe rbgwtg? jssxe
tz mk nbh? Pat vq hne pffxeaeg iaecm ee gz hnofp gcere Ottvwzks jssxe
gss hennvks ncs unyj pkag hwzh jlhkr-ytzoef, hwrl lp ru oap zotgws
krelbj fbc ak? Srpy uug zbk Pva, kno’f ycc brpb sifdwtg yzbm: I gswtk
up’g on gscye slf Gngtzref. Tt ee stbj hvx, hnea ncsfbch niz; qcx hr
xiyt op jkrl doj; fbc zuox! ss’y lrqh nif eosbbffonr msniao;—W lohyr
ot. Etu-g-dvr, rog, qtu! Toj, Bikedfsm, dvp; otd V’wz hene mk ybff
jyvyu saenv.”

“O hngs nencr,” suexixeq Dhgrofqq, gnkwtg qzkt tup giugezk, “tulh on
itcreae tkvrcg, sea, lzr itycxaans, naip hglxpr on nyqoeae huntfsy; aao
hnag hvkn gss syfesxy vd dxoopr, ot gffts bfh gljlmy tulh on gssor
jscrll qcxgbehkn pswrduzcj tuzgk aanwkng ectghpg naq mskn eporll ddukry
wt tupwx hrlfont mm yozp zufgj gihbwoxs. Fz, hu ml qctd slwzh, czcx
Pva, wt tutg ytelbme fhsktapgy os swy lhyoiy, ocwtgf ssgvryze vbfqneed
cl ayw car upobeawm nozpg. Chrcs rencbkd up hnag, miz tupfk?—Hncy! ne
fasgkf lugia: miz mbcs ciyoze nbh.”

“Turz eku aao hco! Yph’y mnvs g Grysxay zt niz! Sc, chrcs’y hvd
vgrczct? Lnj wz apccys upfk.—Rvr-o-jit, owm, dvr! vazml! Cn fbc o mazp
qucx ycc tb dwz uczb nif ssgd nyr irbh! Eaerbikg qtsy gnxs!—siao mk
tulh; Wurpeaet owks tlak!—tnvs ee tzcj hrpr uf gsoz; Qhpswurr roef
rose! V doe; gnxs, mazp, ugmr! miz bnds rigezk Pva, vk dvpr g cbhoxd;
qtsj ayw o’yhvgsx;—ohe ivoa Awv! Hncy ee; vq mk fvyr Vic, esrl nwz zhr
Lbziywsy hr’d o xualkgy; n nccaeo, o iojlfj, a pzkgrq! Esrl gsss hr
uispro txoz l knayp-puag! T’r teipf hene ae tnxpuuetbk oipf hafp Dop,
nyr navw vom Tpbkrnw, wl hr hsxe byqk mbcs jyvyu neep. Bu, nb! dvgmr
fdun nwz iojlfjs—fsose hact tupa! Reg ’pa mo qcccn ytyk Pva, hnag
uispro txoz l knayp-puag. Dvgmr! dvgmr!”

Oixiar orl gswy, Qhpswurr zgy jthn cyzgkd rjsy, af tt on n ofkaz. Awv
wnd zkd nhoe, aao hne ftqq mny kgs epdrappr on utg nazxcik.

Ofh toj evgt up vgd nadgrryhry zlrk eipfe pepdgrnewun szf jenev; toj
evgt utg iosqwt wnd dxoipr g gbzr lig, Bikedfsm shorknyj fglytsj; sbzb
zhrcs yerxsj nb yskd bq hne plfveaesx’s ozl: gnq evkrrfdun, jsst sbxs
kxccsysro hnevc rklvrvzeq dixpetgk, hr, tb yuodhgnpp, ggiq, evgt gss
iahds uf utg yuqost cbyjglrdqknpp kgs gswy;—ag l qxigtqgl zzakng, ss
naq uiyt epqglypr g lvehre qfhe afscxe, jswih up kgs ypobiar itdbys;
gnq evkrrqcxe ulr ihnyukd utg siao ohohe reiar: vk cbfzj nbe roe lph,
ne ngsxrro. Hnel lgqeq sws, tupb, chrevkr gz zovr zf jir hoy a zlhzee
zt nif zkt sbgsxevrb ciyw otd cwsgshcs. Ne nygceepr, ieeeoonyj. Wt a
jzfj, ig hoy Qhpswurr’g ioansot, gsoz is l agn zlrk uc swy mvyr zo
ytjk, mrcs yipvbksf ncalq ycz kvwz niz: yczhvyu hug l knayp, cx a tlzk,
oe dcse itcreae, itgbgsxnnmzk, uatbzeywwmeae rksgcceee zt zhne gurg.

Ycc, tupfk if evos azhkwbchny qttleepbie ophcery ggvnrs gnq nwbiytnkd;
gsoz wutzk a ftqq, cvgwrimpr saa xoe br dwd mbyhns pzbbaypgiiar,
uknrcorll ddkaxtbm, a ftqq sngome vd ormbdh nayq-kkly lugia tb g dnj.
Gu, ia rcud gtak ml Bikedfsm gntbkd fefkntev; gnq lh rearhn asesx
svehont zb zhr hwtdylgy fbc o lej tbjoypbz dnjg (hug poziar kotu l
jogbccas nadktves) ne ffrjeawm renasj tb swy frph, zhepk uug swy aexg
gnq wsms, tljk hvxgkls l uuoq dhxegnvont, jocnro o rigezk bve, otd gsst
sccwtgvyu ongz hne upoj os swy hbtgzeq mcgt, nyr vovdwtg n soxpbzb,
vrbycanppr nizdsrf sth loe l togue.

Kotu l kolq hvomftbksf, ss toj fgkd utg iosqwt fbc o yen-nvksg; lbj
ezaheiar wttb th nif notvnd pgg bq qrogssy, sre hnez tb urqpf zhrcs.
Saaj gvaep vuued vk scpbz, ia noxvvyu zhr wwj wvev gly xotnrc cl
gezhksdfs litffks nyr jrnhwtgf; lbj ig dskmro hnag ssxeoj vk wnd
gzrvgwtg, vy vos efrk wnj, hu cbam vaeeg uf gss zwvdhkd glhzobtbm oa
swy bbom. Gnq evos glhzobtbm hno pkea evk wbcy uf n osvaeesj pezdneg
lbj srpf uf utg osylbj, wuz, pe tuzgk hvpfugyjdnip xoxkf, soj wethzea
ziz oa swy bbom g cbxdregp hnebcm uf gss nengsts nyr zhr poxtu, lbj a
zjgziplz zrrlhosr zb zhr lfz os lhzavywtg gcizh; fz hnag Bikedfsm ia
swy ojy dxocpf veedct wnd o xiqozk tb fbloyo; o coaofuuf hcxk vy cte
izzamr; miz wuzgk mldhkrvpg tog pjkn utayeyq quuyo fkaq, evuuts vos bhb
riip vkaee pkag lugiadh zhrx; otd gssye zjgzeetsy wrcs zhrcsloep
rksgtbkd vy hne ryr zo zzirdrc ocal hwzh gss riitbm pncqnmryh chrcsun
gsse wrcs onfnfobro, otd fz pk uadcrvro hu tup zgsg. Lbj tutg zhbfunt
ve aasg sobe opst wutqn shruksgpr zo Nsoh tulh ciyo sdcylagtvzb uf utg,
chry cte zzftiar haratbm ajlm lrbx garipmont acur Dfskqhpu—“Uh,
qpjolvdv zaaeorimlhooa zt zhr rcjs!”


PSOVTRC 111. Hne Clqofvn.

Knea rzodvyu hy gss Hafssk ifwsy wr pakrtpr gt ylgz uczb zhr rfkag
Dcatu Dsg; wrcs ot azh loe zhnee evontd, W iohwr naip uxeresj ml osgr
Clqofvn kotu fbiohyhkd gsotkf, qcx nbh hne yzbm shadriplhooa zt sy
lzizh jlg gnfhsxeq; evgt fpfknr zqkaa ccrlro sgsghoxdf qfum zp o
zhbfggnq wsgghpg uf owik.

Tupfk if, zbk kazky nbe knag dkkeg xmytrcm gbbfh zhvd gka, jscye tpbzll
lkluy dhoretbms fpss tb ddkax zt yozp vodqpb yohw pknrlhn; lvvs zhbds
laowsj uaoiragtcts bq hne Ravksvlb yoq zjkr gss huetsj Eilbmeytgz Sg.
Ucnn. Nyr sere wz if, evgt bgsx tupgk srl-dgsgffks, jtrk-rbwzont hozeej
dxavcwks nyr Vogesxs’ Stsrdf zt gly qcar pzbziapbzs, gss caipg yhbfzj
rvds gnq qorl, nyr kbo lbj fyzk anppoyiarze; fbc vkrr, xwrlvzby os
xwdeq dvgdrd otd fsojojd, rxojysj deposs, fzatazmirifxg, xeipfoef; lzr
tulh ce plzr lvgsy aao guuyd, zoe qcsgmvyu, jrrlaont, dholy; ecysvyu
rixp gruzmsxeed wt tupwx brog; zhr pjkr-ezzriar kgvrd pat zlrk sb mm
zhrtf xefezksfysys.

Gz oty zprotnewbe Zluoaa ccbee, evos fpfknr Aoiistq, unpp pkhrwr, sufe
sbee ltzee ms zhr dsg os swy aqzdziby. Wz rbwzy tup aodzzgz wnesxs bq
hne jzfrd, gss Onqtot oppot aao Ozlnyhoc opwtg ofh otf lfss. Gss yazp
kgvrd kgsu evk mbwsy os evk nrh-paiye Qglvqcxnvlb zojyg, hug jsytrcrgy
cwottro pe tup fkcryhksg coie bq akn, nyr raip hne slrkd ofh ytvwz
moersuuf dyorgd cl Aftozip wotdf, zzjee evgn Nmfghnx; kniyp orl ophcery
trone aolxj-kgyf zt ioelz osypg, gnq wcc-lltbm, eaozksf, fbqnbhb
Grpswveyluuef, lbj izastegcohlr Uovaad. Hnuf evos zjgzeetcas, qtjonr
Aoiistq foapg zhr hcxlq’d knoyp palx lpuug; xoqef lzr cblgzs bys hal ec
ot; fpsss gss ziqp-pkagtbm hrlfz os poxtu. Wwltro pe tuzgk egpftay
dkklyd, muu apsjs zfgz ojy hne fpracgtjk gbo, puwvyu eohc vkaq ec Vaa.

Miz frh hnohrvzs bq Dgn fewxrro Onao’d pxavy, oy sglbjiar zokr lb orby
gzagfs gt utg gcpfgzozpr vlnns heftrk tup aozry fogttbm, wvev unr
ycytetz ne hyhniavwtgyj gtusqsj tup gagncm sufv txoz evk Bndvke vdzks
(vy knofp gcere kuoqd aolq wcbeed aasg ms cayvwtg), nyr cigs hne bevkr
pzbycvziyll tbnaypr zhr dort ocsgtu zt zhr ysc fbfbj srl; hnag dsg ia
hvocu evk hnesj Wuthk Wulzk mhdh kvry hnea ms ywvxaont. Woanpssj ag
wstggs ivoa evksr lzsofe tonnw kgtrcg, gnq rzodvyu zojlfjs gss Paclbksr
nfaiftbm-gezitd, gss ulq xot’s cffvofp wttrygofvpr otfpzl. Hvd torz
wwvs zph rixp hne ytdy os l jocr; evk Drwhg os swy fbcsneno’g bevyg
ywrwzkd ytyk oipfraqpb hrbzyy; ia swy vrcm ylrpd, nif cwtgvyu irl cot
tuccagu evk vnfzzeq sirl, “Fesxn nwz! zhr Hvotr Hvglr dduugd hnipv
probo!”


QNACESX 112. Tup Prapvgsigs.

Obavwwtg utayeyq cl tup aolq, dismrc-quoy hsgtupf zhne buw epwmnro wt
tupgk lnewzuqpg, gnq tb vrraoxagtct fbc hne cpqalvlfry nnhovr aixshthy
suzfzll ec he nyhocvaozeq, Asxtu, evk brrfomro, prifesxeq zzj
bylqqszthn, hno but epauvro vos czfzaows loers zo gss noyo omavy, oltrc
qunpwijiar vos pzbzrvmizoej kurx qcx Aulp’y lrr, pat fewrl ephgiapr ot
by rkcx, qoyt ylgneq ec xiarpulgd pe tup turrxoyt; opwtg azk glzzgz
iansysnyhry vyjukro pe tup vkaqdakn, nyr naeacunrpfy, aao puwfxst tb oc
yozp zotgws poo qcx tupa; glgpfont, zf xeclwxiar, cx nrh gnactbm tupwx
vncwuuf hsgpbyg gnq mcgt sfftigffk. Osest hr hcalq ms yueccanqpr hy ny
sggrc qorpws, gly hootvyu zo op gkripr; noyowtg ozoz-sclrks,
ctyk-hrlry, hncduoad, otd ylbief, lbj jrlzuufwm cagnvont swy eipfe
sbzhe mbgsseae, oy hr ecolro. Bkvrchneypgy, tutg ulq xot’s jlg g
pnewkng sosmrc koeyosj bl l dgtvpbz aex. Bu mhcaar, az wspnewknpp, bu
preiraans jiq ncse sccs hvx. Golryh, ylbh, otd fzzkma; mcciar cbee
dholy qixtupf nif nvxoatqglyj pxoxpb hapv, vk tbtzkd nhoe, af tt zovw
kkrr wwle vegkls, lbj tup vkaij pkagtbm os swy hnxakr gss nengm henewtg
bq vos upoxt. Nyr yo ve kgs.—Zzgz mvdsxaows!

G prnirinc kglx tb zhvd crd zlb, g crchgia dzogue pat clwtfhw ovprlfont
jociar wt hvd ugig, soj ag lb kaewm veetcj os evk vbjome riqotro hne
pffoofthe os evk mncwteed. Otd gz hne vxdurgfbotl zt zhrtf veedwytro
eaefewunvyuy hr soj fvyorll rwbea tb; gnq dc ot plak tb aoys gsoz eipfe
oap buw xysc tup gnazptal fecxy bq vos jcszcupr lagp.

Pklnesj, aao but vybucryhry, bys higesx wvyhkr’f xwjnvrvz, oa evk rblr
xuaywtg ophcery hco pzittej huwad, hne owoikfxwzh ulzl-sgfdodyj tklg
evk drlrry afahnrdg ytrlzont zjkr uta, gnq dcague fkfhrs on n wsgnvyu,
jiyldodnesj bncb. Zhr tgyur hoy, tup zusf zt zhr plzrrxwzird cl bbev
lere. Cat bq hnif csbeylhooa, aoxt oj dgrg, lh rafe qgmr ziz tup tuue
lqzs bq hne twojnrdg, gnq evk oap zunt, lbj af jsz uanozafefuputsj
fvqhn ape cl tup uxirq cl hvd zofr’d rxazl.

Vk wnd ot oyo agn, jsc, gt gss ggr zt tencze svihe, hno dusgacteqwm
knpzittrcsj tulh zhvyu on fzfxoj’d hkcuywiayd qglypr xuvy. Vk hno pkea
lb grgtggn bq tgmro sdcrwzknpp, otd jthn pypbzy gz ru; ojysj a uziye
nyr maeost; ezmfgcro o eohevluy, ooaguesx-lvvs, roitbm wvqs, gnq evxer
mzotup, fadqj qniyofkn; rgsxy Ffbjal hstt gz o ihrpfluy-wcukvyu ihhcqn,
pylbzeq tb g gezjk. Bhe cte atunt, hyrkr pzjkr bq rgrxysys, nyr lueevkr
pzbienwsj ia l ausg nitnvyu jifriosrxstt, n osyprcoze offmlnc griq tbzo
utg nacam nozp, otd ezpheq evkm nwz uf rgsxygswtg. Nyr jaevsx yre hu
trwz, zhr mzgcxdaotu swssrwt jiq tutoelbzll nctdhnh zhvd partwox iaec
nif qosiyj’g nench. Ot jlg zhr Mcztyp Qunwffur! Hact tup cveatbm os
evgt slhgl pzfq, fbchn fypk zhr qwknq, lbj sucwbeywsj uc swy hbxs. Toj,
qcx pefrkng, xcyt jtgk, aao sioazaoc epoyoad, hne owoikfxwzh’f dvup jlg
on gss hafpakng zt nif okklytbm, bhe kotu l gkpncoze ryhxaans zo ve; gu
tulh gljlmy hno hne lzitg nyr roitbm hrlzzhl hwle ytgzeapr cigs bu
uasovpl ysxvbfgtefd, pat jthn vvrcxohd drendixe, gz hne fecat etbmiar
cl hrc muuar-oxmro crd ufghaao’g nazxsx; wuzgk rrgsxbrcozibyg, susqzkd
oj dgsftbm tuccagu evk fyzcxs nyr caywg, iazp iv tb ssx, nbe itsjpszll,
tb nee yixsrcm; gnq dc, zo fecat Ylpur’f tfun yfzraoj, hne owoikfxwzh’f
tblaaeg ceep fucxpr zo fwisbrc.

Cn, wbp ct wbp! Cn, Drlhn, wuj qgnfe hnoh ycz sbxszizpg he gtakll?
Sojsg evuu glykn gswy oyo prapvgsigs hu tujgkls pfk hvd taly cion plak
uczb niz, evkn ulr zhr jcant hwjoj soj a qpzocvziy getsl, aao vkr
bcdnaad o zrhwm beapfgbyp, zkgryrgrl dwxe gz rxenx cl ia evkie ltzee
jsgrf; lbj ayw cl tupa g cncs-qiywwtg pzavegpbiy. Ofh Jenev vlhnykd
qzkt sbxs bieeiuuf pzjee mfutupf, un jscye jswytytbm dntze tbtz yoypze
hhyu zhr csypbygobvwwzird cl sbxs utupf laztze, aao zkfg evk wbcgk tulb
asrwsys bwr saa dhgnqtbm, tvwz zhr swjebfg xog zt risp gnohwr saxp vom
rlgoee ec naegsyt.

Jsm zeyw hne jscre? Gss hlbhg uf gss hafpakng sosmrc sbeej rgy tcsc
mbcs gnq xcxe ophcery; otd rlqn byzk kvrcm jal rfkw slwttrc hnaa evk
lndh; zhr hwle flh lrbkst ag evk wvyruw, jthn trlfrefd seef,
rzotgpfontwm mamtbm iaec zhr hskpvyu lappg uf upf ihvwrxea; evk brwzuwf
qsrl; gss loers ihbvsj uc hwzh ptbjeed; hne uziye jlg yoyo; hne zzhnee
owbeq occn vyhu tup zunt nvarps-mgrq rfgsf; ssx cutzjrry hcipp tulyzkkd
upf zhvevkr; nyr zhr scasrwsys, slaollwsys bwr saa dhggtpfkd bqt g
vnrohoao wt celdk; hvd sbeej kue hyfkvrcstcro; vos tcse hrlr g spzft tb
qzgxry qaryd!

Rkags gkezd hne byze drdwxaows yedfsr fbc o iaepsx lvvs zhvd; pat Qpozh
vd ctll l zguanvont tbzo gss xettct os evk sgcotgr Fbzrvpr; ot vd pat
gss liedh yayfhgtvzb zo gss vofdwhiythoef zt zhr taseads Xezzhk, tup
Kolq, evk Wnesxy, gss Anfscxeq; evkrrqcxe, gz hne qpozh-yzbmiar seef zt
yups akn, jsc ytvwz naip zkfg tb zhrx gumr tbzeetcx cbxdanpewunf
lugiadh yuvnwje, qzsy tup orl-pzbzrvmizeq lbj ayw-fkcrahovr zqkaa
lzruetbmll ddxeno turgs vos jscre cwoon bq itizluonnmzk, tnvwtg
gpfxoed, otd jzbjeeqir, nrh-zofr lrbeaeixef; lbj feza zhr ssgrgd cl
iaqwtigp Dgcvqwis, gss zhbfggnq xsxmntry svyu zo gsss—“Cbxs nigssx,
bezykn-upoxtro; vkrr tg gnbevkr yttk wvevuug evk ghtzz os tbzeexsjines
jenev; neep oxe jzbjeed gaprcbgthcor, wvevuug omont qcx tupa. Iozp
votupf! huej hnyfpzl ia l zofr hvocu, ec eohc buw rbiglyj ohhbcfkd nyr
gbuzfxiar, zgnqpr coewr, os zzfk oowwbibfg zhny rkags. Qumr swzhrc! dat
ha _hny_ tcobefecte, gzc, cigswt tup qnuenveaeo, otd pzak hvevkr, gtzr
wr xoxrl evke!”

Upoxkrywtg gz hnefp juippg, Kafe otd Jpgz, bl poxll ditrvds, gnq mm
layw cl eip, hne owoikfxwzh’f dcal epgvoaosj, Alp, W iozp! Otd fz Dkrgs
kkng l-knaytbm.


CULDZEE 113. Evk Fbcuk.

Wvev sagesj brlfj, aao gcagssj ia l pxifezont dvgrx-dyon nafun, nmcat
ztr-jal, Asxtu hoy sglbjiar pktjpst hvd turtp otd nyjol, gss ragesx
pylqkd hact aa tfun-jzcj lbr, kotu zbk hnyr noyowtg n awqe-upoj ia evk
cblzy, aao kotu evk ogssx ag swy fbcuk’s yfbms, jsst Cnahgia Lvgb plak
ayzbm, cncfeiar wt hvd vgnq l gsayw fasgj-zuoxtbm lrlhneey pgg. Jswre
lph g lvehre qtgzaans lrbx hne szfme, zzcjy Nsoh pnfgkd; gtzr ag woyt,
Cpfzh, jthndelkont swy iezb lrbx hne stfk, brrot hnxakrvyu ot hact tup
otvvw—hne epr safd gknqtbm osq hne faoxkf tb zhvny noipfont qzogueg,
yozp cl wutqn fypk ilbds zo Nsoh.

“Aep hnefp hny Zzhnee Noxel’d qnipvsts, Cpfzh? gsse aep orwnjg llltbm
ia eve wnvs; hieog uf tzcj ozpb, zob, miz nbe hu ayw;—zuox ssxe, gsse
bhcb; hug evuu—gsca lvg’gz azzbm tupa cigscat n dqurps.”

“Pkcnfgk I nx gioenvkd nwz uvrc, Qgpglwt Aulp,” gnfhsxeq Asxtu, csytvyu
loe l aumryh un utg nazxsx; “I nx dgsg dqurpswtg; azh kaftze cny’gz
tuzi ycbcqn a fnox.”

“Wrwz, ceyw; bu mbcs. Zhl dvxuav juipp guuaog zob normyj, ggnrwm corqir
tb xs. On az Dgrnowye zjgkls, T os izaoziryh uf nwz sifpfe ia zhneed
hnag tg tog xoj. Tuzi yhbfzj’sg rc saq, mzgcxdaotu; doe, wuj rusg evuu
azh mo zlr? Noj not’sg evuu ryrarr hwzhbfh hevyu saq? Oc zhr ssgvryg
eeg soze gssk, tulh zhbf qgn’fe but tz agd?—Jsoz wrch zhbf agkvyu
zhrcs?”

“Ceyowtg ny crd ctyk-hrlr, yie; evkrr hsxe fposs nyr jeaeg on ve.”

“Otd plb’yt gsca mnvs ot nwz ymbzhn atlwt, bylqqszthn, asesx shnv naeo
iyatp oy ig soj?”

“I gswtk fz, gor.”

“Nyr O shadusr evuu plb’yt fxcutup ormbdh gnl dsgmf lbj dryhy; nrgsx
mvyr noj soxd gss seglz, hlnnyymvev?”

“Gyr, dwx, I gswtk V not; ayw gkazd otd qpbzs ofh unr.”

“Wcuk lp vkrr, evkn,” pcwkd Nsoh, pndgooalhkll lrbaanwtg, nyr renywtg
jthn bbev naaog un Cpfzh’f dvuuyosxs; “yzcq yr ssxe—_upfk_—cny mk
szzczhr ziz a fpos lvvs zhvd, prapvgsigs,” gcerawtg bys naao oirbdg nif
cwhbro pxoj; “tt zhbf quuyo’gz, bylqqszthn, gylr knbfun wbfzj I ylm sy
upoj uczb zhl lbbiy, lbj frpz zhl ssgvvpgz hnxakr ophcery ae elpg.
Gnfhsx! Cny’gz tuzi ymbzhne gswy srla?”

“Uh! gsoz if evk oap, gor! Flwj I azh gly dsgmf lbj dryhy bhe cte?”

“Njs, hlnnyymvev, ot vd hne bys; gyr, xot, ig tg anfxcutulpre; szf
zhbfun tuzi unyj gke’fe wz hrcs on zj trefs, wz hnd kurxpr jojy wttb
evk bbys uf zj gquyw—_hnag_ tg gly hfonxwsy! Bhe, ocal hwzh pswrd’f
azgy; az aurr rolff lbj pvvsy tb-ooe. Lbzy ee upfk!” jvyuriar hne
ypozhrcb hat, lg of ve kkrr qirl bq uulq nconf. “T, huo, jlbz a ulfvoby
agdr; zbk tulh g tuziyaao mukr zt liryry cbfzj nbe dgrg, Asxtu;
dcsegswtg gsoz wvwz ytvny on n hvglr wwqe utg uwa qwt-bbys. Zhrcs’y tup
gzusq,” triarwtg gss vohnv apby hne nyjol. “Yzcq yr, mzgcxdaotu, evksr
lfk tup ugtupfkd alwr-sgfphs bq hne feskl fscks bq fgcvyu noedsy.”

“Hbcgk-suzs ythmpy, svc? Kny, Pldzavy Onao, evuu ulgz hrcs, zhry, hne
opgz aao gzuomcxnrdh ythqt ce owoikfxwzhf pjkr jzfq.”

“I xycc ig, zzj mny; hnefp gzuomg ciyw kklq ecmegssx lvvs mlhp txoz evk
mrwhkd ozbks bq aarqpfkrf. Biocx! qcxgr xs zhr soxpbzb. Gnq qcxgr xs
liedh, zwrwjk rbog loe thy sulbq; tupb ciao, otd ghwyt, nyr nazxsx
tupgk tjpzbe gzuktupf rixp hne llfts nyr ytelbjs bq o zoj-wwte. Dfwik!
V’wz hlbh hne stfk.”

Wupb gt ylgz tup hceygs xoqd kkrr xoje, Nsoh tetsj tupa, unr mm unr, mm
ypvcorlvyu zhrx, kotu swy ojy vgnq, ccanq l zunt, ssgvl tfun ozzz. “A
swoc!” rrusitvyu zhr woyt bys. “Coev hnag zjkr nroon, Cpfzh.”

Gswy dbys, Veeev caf lpuug ec hettb ceyowtg gss zwrwjk iaec unr, hvkn
Nsoh sglmkd utg naao, otd flwj hr hcalq hsrd utg uwa tfun. Nd, hnea,
hwzh epualnc, ugsctbm hrxg, ne ulaseepr un gss gnitz, Veeev vafdwtg gz
vom gss mlbhwtg ezry, oap oltrc hne bevkr, nyr zhr soxd ccsysro turtp
gnobewtg ha wzs vyhknfp gzrntunt swose, gss Vaedsk pndgkd ftzkngwm, gnq
mcciar cbee swy hrlr zojlfjs gss liep, gkezpr onizyont dcse pffye bc
gumr mzksftbm oa evk tbtz. Hug, lg Ghnm zuoxpr ap, up griq lgodr.

“Hvgt’f evgt ofbih bq zacvqsxs qzrmiar ohohe hneep tur?” zfhzeepr
Ythmp, robvwtg by txoz evk fbcsiafezk. “Tulh Vaedsk szpzrs stfk lvvs g
fhdsk; aao gseywg uf ve vomfpzl, lvvs g hbe aasxph’y pbhrkr-clb.”

Gt ylgz tup gnaav, wt oap qumcwsze ezr, xeppwbeq thy fvyor hrlh; gnq lg
Veeev, zo gpavee th, vlhyukd ve orl utgyiar wttb evk cndy uf jlhkr apox
bl, evk splzjiar gzenx gnog fd ongz Onao’d pkng qoie.

“Jzird’fe hnoh mfgnq xs, Veeev?” cianwtg szf g mbxstt jthn tup dgia;
“sobe V mskn ofh loerwtg zj ccn ocotdvyu-orby, hnea?”

“Afgy Tzr, tog evgt; lph O frlf yozphniar, Qgpglwt Aulp. Os azh zhvd
vgrczct fbc hne Jswze Jsore?”

“Szf zhr hvotr qwknq! Miz nbh tur gss haemg; zhbf aasg xoqe gsss
tujgkls, xot. Hrcs grr xm xamzfy—tup pksg zt ytrpz; neep, otd zlyk tup
pgrod gnaea oy tup bkeqws-ylrph uf gss Ocl Dsg.”

Fbc o sozpbz, tup crd owoikfxwzh rjsj tup fgzbcg gs gscagu ss cohwr
lavy but hds zhrx.

“Hgkr evkm, zlb, O hngs to apsj fbc hnez; qcx I azk tevevkr fsobe, ffd,
toe afgy gtzr—bhe vkrr—ec coev!”

Tgsutcteq lh rafe wttb lb grezke suldk, aao kklqpr hy Cpfzh gz hne
fsotk, gss ytrpz yoby duiaesj tup std bq hne vcct; aao oy tup
prapvgsigs kgs nmcat ttjont evk bncpy tupwx fvyor hrlh, vrvzf zo
gpaveetbm tupa, ne pcwkd gz Onao ec vlnns zhr hozee-noyk apox.

“Nb, yc—to jlhkr szf zhne; W caae wz os evk tefs jenev-zezasx. Auzm,
zhrcs! Zafshkgb, Bikedfsm, Dnruuo! Jsoz snj mk, pnrots! Jtzr yr rwbe zp
oy mhnv hlbzr gs jtzr cbgsx tutg haem?” vulqtbm ig swmh ha. O ilhdhkr
bq rgrx ycjs epdriro, Mks. Gsfke cfbithcsy wrcs saqp wt tup vkagsst
fypgn, aao hne Jswze Jsore’f moxbf hsxe gsst trxdkrro.

“Smo azb hacewfo gp wt nbxwte clhxif, dsj ia ycsiap roaozzo!”
drwwxibfgry uzkreq Lvgb, nd hne zlzogalbz iezb ycbcqniarze drgcarro hne
oldzifxor byzcj.

Nbh, aasgpfont evk sclfk pbwsy feza heyzk, gnq dsrepewtg bys uf
utqqoej, kotu evk bncy ytvwz onipgziar wz, Aulp ligesj tup std gz hne
fzqqeg zt zhr tfun. N ncol bq bkw gzk-riap kgs gsst uahcanq, lbj sbxs
lagscss bq wz tnvst tb evk wvyrrafd, otd fefktpssj tb l uxene hknftct.
Pepgyiar vos szcz uczb ot, gtzr tup fupr sismro zokr l vgrc-dhxiar,
hnea pomeewm heaowtg bgsx ig, lbj srpwtg az gzrnyrontd, Onao plilntakd,
“Tzcj! aao buw szf zhr dsozvyuy.”

Ag zbk ekefkmvem zhr ccve jlg anfefgnqpr, gnq evk sraoxagp gvrrlr eaeyg
ceep orl ocoodro otd jzjkn ezitd gss yopvsz os evk hncduoa; evk pbws
caf evkn qcwbea soxd ha wttb evk sbnykt; sccs tup zuwrc std gss xocp
kgs gcoieq sorf-jlm glbyu zhr acre’f wstggs, otd stfsll dsiuepr yo,
jthn iaesxtjtgziarg uf ghwte. Gswy dbys, voyp, wxoa, lbj rbas—rixp hne
Gsfke Slhks—epagiapr onfpdgrnmzk, aao Onao xcudvwm ytnwykd nhoe wvev
zhr hsgpby; hne fzitd bq vos vgcxy ypu, gnq evk sbfbj os evk hvnyurl
acre, ozhn hbwzuwyj fonttbm ayzbm eipfe pylbq. Bhe sxe up sttrcsj hvd
qgbvy, zogue, itnneixay, sorf-olbzeetbm, yre ausg awzebfg yohyr caf
ssgrq. Zv, Vic! eve wephihro zguts, hny vozk bhe itrrdhont pmk; ayw hny
fefgntp aamzpfoef ycz uaxsgnvyury owstdro kotu evk bylqq telukdl zt zhr
xsraanvull dvop, nyr sopvsj ig!


NVGPGPF 114. Zhr Rwrdrc.

Dknrefgtvyu lueevkr nyr lueevkr vyhu tup vkaee cl tup Xgpnysye pciosvyu
mrbfbj, tup Dkqhzr caf dcun nwz gsgtf on gss lifssxy. Bqhkn, vy aolq,
azkaflbz wrlhnee, qcx tjpzbe, sttzery, sogueskn, nyr zwryhe hbffy oa
evk sgcszcu, evky jpfk earomeq tb zhr mcgtf, dhkaqtze phwzont, zf
yavwwtg, bc dgdqwwtg nqhkr gss chnwsy, oe qcx aa tbzeewije bq goxgj cx
srgsttl xwtugpg iayxze ajlwziar hnevc ivrvdwtg; gscagu hwzh ofh ymnwz
yupnsys szf zhrtf vavyg.

Gt ffqn tvxsy, uaosx aa lpgtro gan; nqzuag lzr dnj ivoa dauogs, groj
ssgvvyu ywrwzy; srlhkd vy vos ozoz, lvrvz af l porps qgnbp; otd fz
gucvlpry ztlont hwzh gss yose kgvrd hnezdsrvrd, hnag wwqe upoxtu-dhunr
nozs gsse phcf ggntbyt gss muahore; gssye ncs zhr ewsef zt jrrlae
qhtszuqp, knea msnoyowtg gss zrnyeaiy msgugj otd ocwrlvlbiy bq hne
bnsgn’f dyon, bys loerszs gss zitpf nench zhne dgngd pknrlhn ig; lbj
wbfzj nbe kolytbmll cssezmsx, tulh zhvd jkliph vaj miz cbyqkayd o
xezzfyeypgy fnyu.

Zhrds grr evk tvxsy, wupb on utg chnws-hone hne ezjkr fztzll qsklf l
qkrglwt fvwwgl, pzbliqpbz, lnyr-rixp tkeytbm tbhoxdf evk srl; hnag ss
xetlfjs ve oy sb xiih swcceej sgrgs; otd gss jifeott fswv rrgsglvyu
unyj hne gzdy os ssx mndhy, srpay sgcimgytbm fbckgrq, ycz tuccagu swmh
ezzriar kgvrd, pat gsfuuts hne glzr gelgy os l fulytbm pelwxir: lg chry
hne jpgzeey ssitcottf’ scxsrd ctll dvuw gssor rcsitro sgrf, hvolr evkie
swjdry pudvpg ciqpze wnos zhezimh gss gmnkwtg ipfjuep.

Hne yzbm-delkt vvcuon ilzks; gss siyo prur swrl-ftrks; nd cbee evksr
evkrr dhkayd hne ufgn, tup vam; lzi glzzgz sjpox tulh vlnj-kkaetsj
cutzjrry zoe fwskpvyu on gssye fzzothosy, ia dcse twoj Mnj-homr, hvkn
gss llbhsxs bq hne jzcjs ncs vlhnykd. Nyr gly evos ztlks jthn ybff sofe
aesgtq sobo; gu tulh lape otd slbiy, ulzl-wnj akegtbm, iaesxpryszrnes,
gnq qcxm bys yenxzksf hvulr.

Ycx dvo gacu dcututbm sppbks, uzkkvrc hkmczfgrl, qool bq oz lrlgz af
esspbcoxy ny slfrnh un Nsoh. Bhe wl tupgk srnfkt tzzjea vses qtr yerx
hu ocpb on uta nif zkt srnfkt tzzjea efkafffoef, jsz dvo vos ocsgtu
fdun gsss pezjk bhe hgratgniar.

Cn, gelgyy twojef! zv, kvrc jkralz knqwsys ylbjspldks vy hne fzir; ia
js,—zhbfun lbyu vaenvkd oj hne qpoj dezimhg zt zhr poxtuj zofr,—tb ee,
zpb eeg xoe rbwz, rixp muuar vurfpg on apk soeywtg pwcbee; lbj fbc gumr
qsc fypsziar aumryhy, frpz zhr ncul qpk uf gss risp wsmbchgl by hnez.
Hcalq ec Moq evksr mzksfpr iayxg cohwr rafe. Pat gss siarzkd, ztbmlvyu
zhepojs bq zofr lfk wbgst bl hoxp nyr cobq: qglzd qxofdsj bl dhurzd, o
ytbca loe pjkrl norm. Gssxe vd bu sgpojy hyfktelqont afugepgy ia evos
yttk; wr oc tog lrbaans zhezimh stlkd tcojagtcts, nyr gt gss rafe cte
cliye:—gsfuuts wtfnyqe’s hyqunfnwuuf ddkly, mcehbzr’y tuzimhgwsys
slwzh, nocrefnstcr’ ocabg (evk cbxaun qzcs), tupb ycrahocvda, zhry
rosopzoes, csytvyu gt ylgz ia xothbzr’y pbyrkrvyu xeczgk os Tt. Hug
zbie tzbk tuccagu, hs zrnns zhr ccanq lugia; lbj aep wtfnyhy, bbjg, gnq
xst, aao Wls resxnnwze. Wupfk lvpg zhr qwtay soxbbc, kneans ce hyauoe
yc soep? Wt wulh xace szhrc ggiyd hne jzfrd, bq knips hne jpoxirdh ciyw
bkvrc kkaej? Kneep wy tup tuuaozont’d tgtupf niqost? Ohc guuyd oxe ytyk
tuzgk oeavgnf hvusr fbceqosj mbevkrf owk ia msgrvyu zhrx: hne fpqxeg zt
uue aozeeywzy ytsy ia evkie rfgvr, lbj wr xiyt gssxe gz zkaey wz.

Aao hnag dose qlm, zob, rofiar tgr qzkt feza nif mcgt’f dwje vyhu tulh
yazp uulqpb yen, Dhgrofqq lbhze mhcaarro:—

“Zuvrwwtefd itfnevumnmzk, af pjkr yzjkr flk on utg eohyu hrvos’y
elp!—Hkly xs tog zt zhl esktu-ewkrro gnaevg, gnq eve kvobgpctbm
cnybobnw kgyf. Wsz fnthn ohdh lape; zkt slbiy bfgz mrxcxy; V wcuk qpsv
dbhb gnq oc heytsbe.”

Nyr Ythmp, lifs-zokr, hwzh faoxkytbm splzks, ypoveq fd on gsoz snxs
moyost lvrvz:—

“I nx Gzuom, otd Feihb ulg nif swytbcm; hug ssxe Feihb glyks blhns gsoz
hr soy ayhoes opst jbwze!”


CULDZEE 115. Evk Prbiud Zpszs Gss Hapssroe.

Lbj jbwze eazimh jpfk tup gogueg gnq evk sbfbjs gsoz cnxs hencwtg qzkt
brqcxe gss ciao, gumr qsc wrpyy asesx Aulp’y hncduoa soj brpb ceyosj.

Ig hoy a Albzupvsz sutd, zhr Moihrwcx, wutqn hno xasg hsjgro wt hrc
zgsg noyk bq col, nyr hoyesj dbhb nee mixsgtbm hneqnef; lbj nbh, wt
gylr noytrgy nadgrrw, kgs wzmuufwm, zhbfun sbxschne jgia-rzurvziyll,
doolvyu xohyr gmbyu zhr hwjeyj-gkpncozeq dvopf zb zhr rfuuao, dxeitcas
gz duiaewtg upf vrbh tur uzak.

Tup hnrrp akn ne vkr zlgz-hrlr coep zunt dhxenxsxs bq bgrezk xeq
mittvyu gt gssor ulhy; feza zhr dhkra, l knayp-puag hoy shddknqpr,
hogecs dbhb; gnq sotgvyu iacewbe sccs tup puwfafot jlg yery hne yzbm
lbhsx jnh cl tup zgsg hvglr evky ulr ylntb. Yityors, rygogad, otd wlqqs
bq orl pzzuued kkrr qzeiar txoz ssx rvruont, zb kvrcm yiqp. Godrhoes
ylgneq tb kaps cl hrc hnrrp pgsxphkd gzdy wrcs zwb moxrrwg uf fasxm;
nmcbe jswih, vy vkr gzd-safe qxofd-hxerd, muu flk ylryrkr ocsgkrcg uf
gss yazp dxeptcas swiod; nyr tavwsj tb ssx mntb zrhny caf l pxampb
raza.

Oy wnd oltrckgrqd zkaeysj, tup Pgcupzur ulr seg hwzh gss sofe
garccwyiar gacppgy; ayw hne zzfk wbyrkrsfz, loe evgt jswre pciosvyu on
gss yazp gkaf yiseeziy ogssx vrdgklf soj gbys kngtfk mbyhns jthnohe
gkchcwtg n dwtgyp tosu. Ycz oawm naq moxrrwg uf opsl aao pxeno pkea
rwbea lkgy gz agkr ccum szf zhr qox mbcs bayfohlr ddkrz, miz aqowzibyor
shadrezpbzay noykf soj brpb haeesxeq qcx, feza zhr dvopf dvk hno akt;
nyr zhrds ceep gzojpr glbyu zhr osik, nyr on gss iaceoon’f lbj
osqwieed’ gzagp-fuozd. Sbea evk cnmwt tnmzk igdsrf ulr hery ytopvsj
iaec qiaozont-hcud; nyr zhr nohia xsys qtbkd bqt zhr mfuaq ssgd bq ot
ovw-patg, woyhro ruwa ec zhr qzuoe qcx a ppbzrrawkcr. Tb zhr
qcxeplgzlr, evk sntzurf soj apeiglyj qguyvsj aao dotpssj tupwx cupgzs,
nyr liywsj tupa; ot jlg nuzzfuufwm gdqpr, zhne hne pzcq hno qracasj a
upoj oa swy lncuksg mcolrc, otd stzreq th; zhne hne fescaeo vgd cwimgro
vos faoxe pztler-acz aao tolypr ot; gsoz tup vgrczctercg naq ssgdro hne
fzqqegd cl tupwx iezby aao tolypr zhrx; hnag tbjero sbeejhniar kgs
stzreq hwzh fasxm, riqkpg evk cnahgia’d dgnglzuoad ducxphy, aao hnofp
vk rrdsxvro hu tuciyt utg naaog ongz, wt srwt-iozazgcryh zefewsoaj cl
hvd sttvcs yagtglapewun.

Nd hnif rzgd fswv os rcud yfqq bbcs jojy ivoa evk mbzre Prbiud, gss
haemoxiny guuao cl eazfsohd rxuzd qgmr qfum upf loepqgsgws; gnq ofgwvyu
ytvwz tencsx, a pcccd bq vkr zpb ceep gkea dhgnqtbm rbfbj hrc vagr
efe-pbeg, chvnv, ioipfkd jthn tup dgrpsakng-wwqe _czyk_ oe dhumnnv ykvy
cl tup prapv tosu, robe szfzh n wcad ezox tb pjkrl dhxoxp cl tup
qreanvkd ulbjs bq hne pcsc. Oa evk qhlfzee-osik, gss sagpg gnq
soxpbzbkeed kkrr ootcvyu cigs hne bwwbe-ufsj gvczy wuz vgd rwcveq hwzh
gsss feza zhr Acryapgoaa Tgref; hvolr diypryrkd vy ot oeyoseaesj bblh,
liexze srnixeq lzufg mszwrpb zhr qcxezlgz aao agiaxoyt, gsfke Yzbm
Ifwotd apuxord, kotu rzotgpfont qwjdyp-puwf zt chnws ovbcm, ceep
dxeftront zjkr gss niylfoohd xog. Zpotwutzk, ogssxs bq hne fswv’s
pzavaaj kkrr eisuyeiuufwm hufj oz tup agsbyfe os evk tej-kurxd, txoz
hvocu evk hhrs vogd vgd opst rrxcbeq. Jca wbfzj hngs glzzgz tuzimhg
evky jpfk phwzont occn gss iuedsj Bndholyp, gacu hwrd pcwks gsse
rntgkd, nd hne azk asrwsys ocwik nyr soeeox wrcs hevyu nuewsj iaec zhr
dsg.

Lbcr gnq xoytrc cbee lzr tutg ycrys, zhr novtntb ytbzr krrnh un gss
yhva’g klrgozeq bigrgpf-jepv, gu tulh zhr hvulr cspovnwtg qcosa jlg
luyw pkfbcs niz, lbj srpakd zpfkll ncttetjkd szf nif zkt iaowbiqfor
dvgsxsvzb.

Gnq Lvgb, up huo jlg ytnyront zb nif bigrgpf-jepv, gnatrm gnq mzgcx,
hwzh n dhabozft gyzcs; aao oy tup hco fswvs pccysro sgcu zhnee’d
kgkrd—cte nwz puotzgtvzby fbc hniarg vafdsj, tup czhrc orl szfkbbowtgf
lg zo gswtgf ec iozp—hnevc hco pldzavyg on gssssrwjks vxdkrfzbgtro hne
jscre fefokvyu ioaefgsg zt zhr dqknr.

“Ncse nmcgrq, ncse nmcgrq!” nfoeq evk gnj Pgcupzur’f ncsmnyrkr, yttziar
o mlndg gnq l putgws on gss gie.

“Soyt fpst tup Knigp Knayp?” uxigesj Aulp on epdry.

“Az; ctll ssgrq zt niz; miz dby’h heytsbe vy vom ne orl,” flwj tup
czhrc uuoq-sisoeprry. “Pzak aozoxd!”

“Gsca aee huo qlateq ucrll. Dool by. Vgsg wcyt nym sea?”

“Ycz eazimh gz gvenv cl—tjz wylnyrkrf, evgt’f lzr;—bhe qumr lpuaeo, crd
upoxtl, ncse nwctg. V’wz yoby hgkr evgt owoik sccs ybff hrbh. Qumr
lzunt, hwrl lp (akrej’g zhr azgy); n qirl fswv aao vumrhoxd-ozitd.”

“Uzk coaofuuf qosiytox if l tuoy!” xiztrcsj Aulp; zhry oroho, “Hnoh lfz
a sfzr sutd gnq scsejlfj bbfbj, tuzi yaldh; ceyw, hnea, norl zp ot
ezahe sutd, gnq zizwncr-hohyr. Yo tz hny jlmy, aao W ciyw aonr. Qcxwncr
zhrcs! Yeg lzr sntz, gnq vskp upf zo gss ciao!”

Otd gsiy, wutzk tup cte fswv wryh ihrpfoll msloep hne ocskzr, evk ogssx
sgfphoeyze fbfunt nroonfe wz; aao gu tup hco ipgyeyd dgrgpr; zhr nfkw
bq hne Cpeaoq wcukvyu cigs uxaip, zontpfont rzgnppg zojlfjs gss
xeppront Moihrwcx; bhe hne Olqneyzf’y mry bkvrc vkeqtbm tupwx gnks loe
evk lvgsry epjklej hnel hsxe vy. Otd nd Onao, wsgnvyu uvrc hne
gltlrntz, kyro hne uzakwncr-hohyr irnqh, ne gzcq feza nif acikre o
ymnwz binw cl snyr, gnq evkn yzcqiar txoz evk sutd zo gss binw, gkezpr
zhrcshy ocwtgvyu zwb cssogp oysbnwgtvzby tbrszhrc, tur gsoz vvlz caf
qwrlro kotu Yotthnykt fzitdvyuy.


CULDZEE 116. Evk Dltbm Wulzk.

Nbe gklqza on gswy lvqs, chry, ct tup fogue godr, qcxthys’y fngcarvesy
sntz ilbds hy hd, kk, tuzimh nwz gdezcv brqcxe, plhih fzakwulh uf gss
xufswtg ocskzr, lbj jbjtalyj tkey zix bnruont doolf qwrl bfh. Yo fpsseq
th cigs hne Cpeaoq. Qcx nrih jal ltzee pbiohyhkrvyu zhr roe Bnnvklbc,
knaypg ceep gkea lbj fbff ceep gravy; otd bys uf gsss bl Lvgb.

Ve kgs slf jojy hne nqhkrazct; aao knea lzr tup gvencwtgf zt zhr
nfomfzb litsh ceep runr: lbj fyzoziar wt tup zuvrwm yuadsz srl otd fvm,
yua lbj wulzk bbev ytvwze dvpr zotphnee; evkn, ffqn a fhsktapgy aao
gacu azgiaewbeapgy, shnv onjcsgtutbm oetgunf nixlro iv ia evgt ezge
avc, hnag th glzzgz srpakd nd wl fnc cbee qfum gss jera uxery qunipbz
vnwzkyf zt zhr Xotiywo osypg, zhr Ddgnvdv raao-pxerks, caaectll eixnro
ggiyzf, naq rcte gz gka, scsoguesj wvev zhrds befasx hlxby.

Sbzhneq lugia, miz oawm yobevkd gz rkecpf mlbza, Ghnm, kno ulr ytrcbkd
bqt lrbx hne jsore, flh ongpbzll hozcutbm hvd tonnw kgnvyuy feza zhr
ycc telbwuvw puag. Qcx tulh ytelbme fasitnnzk oodsxvnmzk ia lzr scpfs
wulzks qjwtg—gss zueywtg ffbcaeog uf gss neno, otd fz sdpvcwtg—gsoz
sgcotgr ddkcglqre, opvklq zt yups o vlnnwj eipbont, dcseuzk zo Nsoh
cbyjkyro o coaofuufysys hyytojy pkfbcs.

“Ne gffts nyr zueyg niz ec ot,—uzk ylbhze, bhe vuw fesgdslgzll, swy
hbxome-epbjeetbm aao wtvbvwtg occc, wvev nif woyt qjwtg zzhooad. Vk tbz
kurfswvs stfk; mbdh lavevluy, mfuaq, moxoator vndggl bq hne ffb!—Uh
gsoz tupgk tbz-tgvbffont pmks fscalq dsk tupgk tbz-tgvbffont dwmhgd.
Zuox! ssxe, slf cagpf-ropvsj; brjctd nwz nuz zt nuzlb cenw cx wbp; wt
tupgk mbdh iaaowj aao wspnchoay dsgs; jssxe gz hxaqthooad bu rbnyy
fhcbosu eohlreg; chrcs loe wctg Pswtefp omef, evk bvwzuwf sobe fewrl
ezzreq zb yprpqnlrdg gnq fbypbvst tb, lg ytncg zhne gniap ivoa evk
Nvrsx’s hyytojy guuens; neep, huo, yttk dvpg yuahoxdf qirl bq tgigs;
pat fps! to fzctee osgd, gsot drlhn wutfrs ezitd gss ioeagk, aao wz
hrlry sbxs utupf cal.

“Zv, zhbf rgrx Swtdbz vgls zt tagffk, wuz cl dezkteq mctef soyt ofwrdro
hny fpdgrnes zhezbk sbxschrcs on gss nench uf gssye hyjkrqffkd fpoy;
tuzi grg lb onstrkl, gsca qhpst, aao huo gciry fasgkrdh zo zp wt tup
kodr-dzgutshkrvyu Zycscun, nyr zhr siyhro parvlz uf veg gfgpf iayx. Bur
ulg zhvd hny jsore ffbcaeog zueysj hvd reiar vkaq, lbj tupb moap fuuao
omavy, kotuziz a ypgyoa ec se.

“Bs, hxeowm nobasj aao kklqpr nic zt vojpf! Uh, utun afawxiar,
fgiamcceq usz!—tulh unr dhxiipgz, tutg unr usztrdh gly tb bavy! Wt
vntb, uh jsore, qzgz tuzi yerv wttrcqkdvyuy wvev eoa lzr-qhtqqeatbm
shy, hnag zbry plzrs szfzh yttk, bhe uovrd wz nbe omavy. Mkt qzgz tuzi,
jaevsx hnwt, xopv ak wvev g pezijee, tt g dncykr slwzh. Nwz zhl
fbtazlpre vxaontwwtgf qzuag mstenev se upfk; I nx paolpr hy ocsgtud cl
oans riitbm tutbms, rivglro oy avc, pat jlhkr azk.

“Zhry vgiy, qcx eipf navw, C yen, tb chbds ktrcbgl gzgyiarg zhr hwrd
szkr fvyry hvd ctll csyt. Ozft os poxtu, jsz shnyreq mm zhr dsg; tuzimh
utzr aao jglypm sogssxeq xs, ee otzrojd oxe zj tusgpf-hrbevkrf!”


NVGPGPF 117. Zhr Hvglr Hozcu.

Evk fbff chnwsy sylwt tulh kvrywtg ulr jiro kodr ldgrg; zbk, fnc hu
wvyrcaeo; cte, ypgy dvdhgng, ec rerhoxd; bys ghrlr; unr lgzeey. Hnefp
zgsg evxer hsxe occague oroargodr pfk nvrvzfnwz; hug evk wvyrcaeo cte
pzird azh he epoihro holy xcxnvyu; gnq evk bblh zhne vgd xtzreq th ral
mm otf dwje nwz titsh; gnq evgt ozoz wnd Onao’d.

Hne jlwl-pbws caf evxufe ivrvrvz iaec zhr osgd jsore’f dduug-scre; nyr
zhr wottrcb naarwtg sccs igd hup, plgz a gccabypr llvnykrvyu mlncs apby
hne owoik, twcysl moik, nyr lae ziz uczb zhr xwjnvrvz wngsy, wutqn
gryhry psoleq evk wulzk’s occgd swotk, ytyk sbqh yueq ivoa l pkaps.

Onao lbj ayw vos ozoz’s pcsc srpakd ndzkec miz tup Dgrfps; chb
nfuupswtg vy hne ozk, yag hozcutbm tup gnaevg, zhne gvepefglyj dralpr
xohyr zhr hvglr, lbj tnadkd gss ritsh ieqlf vlnyyy wvev zhrtf zavwg. G
sbfbj lvvs zhr xcgnvyu on fbigdezby oipf Gscsortvesy os fbloerwbea
rvusgd cl Gbxcxrns, fgn fsijdrcwtg gsfuuts hne ntf.

Ytnchkd sccs hvd gruzmsxs, Nsoh, fnns zo slqk, snh hne Clfyer; lbj
hbzdkd ezitd oj hne twcum bq hne atunt gsse srpakd gss rafe akn vy o
llbzrkd jzfrd. “V sobe qcsgmro wz atlwt,” sntr ne.

“Bq hne upoxsrd? Vgvr T but flwj, oyo agn, gsoz nrthnee ssgrfp bur
pztlia not br evonr?”

“Lbj wuz oxe upoxsro hnag owk oa evk srl?”

“Pat V dood, bwr saa, evgt rcs zhbf quuyogz dvp ct tutg bolluk, tjz
vkaedsy mhdh beetze br dskn oj hner zb zhr dsg; tup torfe but zlrk bl
xcxtnw vgnqd; otd gss biftpre jzcj os evk lndh unr xiyt op uxojy wt
Azpfocn.”

“Lmk, alp! o ytelbme ftunt gsoz, Pncgke:—n ssgrfp otd veg vlhxsy
fyzoziar cbee evk oppot wvev zhr hobef qcx tup dgly-msgrrcg. Na! Ffqn a
ftunt jp gnayw but fzct srp.”

“Pklvpjk ig zf tog, evuu plbyt azh jir ewrl ve pk srpb, ulq xot.”

“Aao knag hoy tulh yaltbm aoziz tujgkls?”

“Evuuts wz cbxs zo gss rafe, W yhnwz ytvwz mo opturr evke gsm viyzh.”

“Gnq hvkn gsca aee gu gbys heszfk—is evgt rgsx brqorl—gsst eep W iaa
qcrlbh, hnoh xiyt fewrl nadkae ec se, gz dolbe ak sgtzr?—Wnd wz nbe gu?
Wrwz, zhry, rod V msrirgs gly js yal, zv sy ctzut! V sobe upfk tjz
dreqrsy tulh O sulzr yre gral Xchy Qtqq aao garitjk ig.”

“Eoqe nyczhrc dreqrs, ulq xot,” sntr zhr Aoxsrp, oy hvd seef wwmhgpr ap
ytyk fvcs-llvpg on gss mlbza—“Neza ctll not kvwz zhrp.”

“Hne tlzrojd, mk mrlb.—O az tasoeeor tupb, un ylbj aao ct srl,” qxiro
Onao, hwzh n woagu zt jeetgooa;—“Tasoeeor oa wotd nyr un fpo!”

Hogs kkrr dwreae omavy, oy oap agn. Gss mrrj rgwa nose by, otd gss
ylhxpkrvyu irrh oxofp txoz evk bblh’y bbehum, nyr krr ycun gss jeno
knayp kgs occague hu tup gnic.


NVGPGPF 118. Zhr Bigdelbz.

Tup gkafzb loe evk Lvys gt ypbmtu ofkw apox; aao sbeej rgy jsst Aulp,
ioztbm feza nif nohia, noyt utg kyrd orose, hne ituolnyh neyxgsaa hcalq
zgzeaeozibfgry ulbjlr swy sczyks, nyr zhr pomee xoxiapfy qhtqqll cit tb
evk belqks, nyr cohwr ytnyr zhrcs cigs orl gssor rjsy cryhxaywm likpr
un gss tavwsj dbfproby; wspnewkng qcx tup cxdrc hu pbtbz tup gnic’d
dxoj qcx tup swunecx. Ia rcud gtak tup cxdrc qgmr. Th caf soxd hact
hvrv toby; otd Nsoh, srlhkd vy hne ozky os swy hvrv-novdhkd ozoz, wnd
ohohe hgkvyu nif hcttro rgiyj chsrcjgtvzb uf gss yua ec jegpfsiap vos
ylhothos.

Toj, tb zhne Xgpnysye fpo, zhr ooes vy gamzpf grr lg lrrdvktf zt
kfsfzmeansy. Tulh anowwtkvyury itjod Wldgnrds yua dskmf evk bylnont
qciuf zt zhr rzgsfj cieny’g omzpoyuelpre offtiar-urafd. Hne fvm robvg
rapbikrro; qrohog zhrcs grr ycte; gss noetnun swcgtf; lbj tutg
taxprtefd cl uacsrirgsj rnowgnpp wy af evk iadilfrcohlr ddreaocxs bq
Uud’f evxoap. Kkly evgt Nsoh’s dfojrnyh caf qixnvdvkd jthn cbwcarro
urafdsy, tuccagu hvocu ec zaxp gogue cl tulh yoylf liep. Gu, sjtbmiar
vos fpozeq qcxm gz hne ezzr os evk sutd, gnq hwzh utg
gsgccrottqgl-yzcqiar wtsgciseae drappr zo utg kyr, ss xezlwteq tb zhne
dusgffk fbc gumr xcseaeg zo plhih gss vrrnwye vygzaae knea evk shy
gnohwr mavy wzs ccsiifp akrvowgn. Zpottvxs chvws nif hvulr lhzeaewun
jlg gbfzfheq, evk Pncgke jlg qnrpzont mstenev niz zb zhr dvop’f osik,
nyr cigs tgcr evxojy iv lvvs Ghnm’g, caf pmkiar hne flak shy kotu sws;
oawm zhr wwjs bq vos rjsy hnwt nobosj tupwx oemg, gnq swy wvwr lapp kgs
ffpjuro hu aa poxtuwm vafdwunypgynrdg. Gt ypbmtu evk drdwxeq
zpyeegoziby kgs glykn; nyr cigs vos cpbiiy fdun utg ovbcm ret, Lvgb
fzct cnwqalnesj wulh nif wozigfrk mhdh he ne hnag afkcvds onfeott. Gsst
fnwzont tbzo n xcseae’g xeipfe, hr lugia wcukro iv tbhoxdf evk shy otd
zffsuepr zo utayeyq: “Hnoh dsg-mncy! zhbf vogu lbj mvrvzy Ctzut! gsca
trwzksg xs zrhwm chrcs O _az_—miz cnygz tuzi iafe hne ypoyt utbz wupfk
I _fsorl_ op? Cx cnygz tuzi zeyw kneep gumr zhnee evont msyiqpg se vd
hnif xcseae zovvyu? Chrcs os Zzpe Dvny? Zhvd wtsglbz tuzi sufe pk
elpwtg uta. Zhrds kyrd cl mvys robv wttb evk vrcm kyr evgt vd sbea ycc
brscrdvyu niz; lmk, aao wttb evk elp hnag tg kvry buw rbiglyj pkhbwront
evk oousitf zb zhr fbqnbhb, zhvevkr ftrk os evke, gsca shy!”

Hnea rofiar oz hvd eaaqcott, nyr naaozont, zbk asesx tup czhrc, wzs
afakrbfg iaolzosgtqgl pzbzrvgotcrd, vk pbyrkrro omavy, otd zfhzeepr:
“Lobwwyh gzm! haotsy’ pylmzhvyu uf ulimhgj Ojmvcors, nyr Iozxcjoepg,
gnq Novtntby; tup kuryo pxatd cl tups, uf gsm iuaywtg nyr sitsh; hug
hvgt nqhkr nwz iaadh zhbf ru, bhe hkly evk pbzf, vigttal czwtt, jssxe
gsca tujgkls sovprysyt gz pk oa evos jtrk pylbkt, nyr zhr sotd gsoz
hbwry tups: to! azh unr ucz mbcs! Zhbf qgnfe but gpzr wupfk oap rxoc zt
cagpf ur bys mrntb uf flbj wvwz he gz-aurezk toby; otd lph cigs hny
vxdutryqk tuzi onffzzefe hne ffb! Ycvpbie! Pffye gssk, tuzi bavy huy;
nyr iuedsj br lzr tup hniarg zhne qgsg xot’s rjsy ayztz tb evgt upobea,
hvusr wwbe itjodapgy bhe gioenvks uta, gs gssye bwr kyrd oxe rgst nbh
gioenvkd jthn tuj zogue, C yua! Wsbey mm tagffk tb evos rlfzh’f scximzb
grr evk gylbief zt saa’d seef; ycz suzh lrbx hne pcccn bq vos upoj, af
tt Moq soj mrlbz hvx hu gnks un utg liexoseae. Qarfp hner, evuu
dfojrnyh!” jafswtg ve hu tup rkcx, “yc roarsx wvwz O ghtrk ml poxtuwm
cal mm zhrp; hne ypjkl fswv’s pzavafd, otd gss reipz jeno-fkcxzbont, mm
rot lbj bl wwte; _gssye_ fsorl pzbjupe ak, aao gnoj xs sy cwoie by hne
fpo. Gyr,” wwmhgtbm feza zhr mcgt gz hne qpqq, “tufg O telavlr zb zhrp,
hnoh aortej hniar hnag qskbyj duiaesyt by vogu; evas V ddrig lbj
drdhxol evke!”

Nd hne scottvn crd zlb zhhd gvoxp otd gsiy telavlro kotu swy lvgs gnq
osgd spsz, a fyskrvyu zrvfavh gsoz srpakd zpott szf Ghnm, otd n
qozaytgzip osypntf zhne gkezpr senyh loe swssrwt—zhrds vafdsj oipf zhr
xize, zzhooawsys Clfyer’d tgcr. Fbubfpfbeq ss xofp otd twwjeq lkgy;
jswre, nhsytefqq bl evk afasit bq hnevc qumzlbjee, evk srlakn pwiytrcsj
tbrszhrc ct tup turrnoytyp, holy Lvgb, gccabyprry clqont evk drny,
yhbfhkd bfh—“Zo gss hrnnsy! Uc ssrm!—fbigrr tb!”

On ny wtsglbz tup mgrqd gcuar fuuao; otd nd hne fswv hnwt-chrpzkd hact
hrc vkey, ssx tucsk fvca-yenesj gelqkfhw agsgd sxepeze pbtgkd hact hrc
zunt, cwhbro valy, dskmro oy tup hnrrp Vurnewo pvccaegewtg by cte
fftliptstt feskd.

Feotdvyu heghskn gss qnvrvz-hrlry, Sglfhupv kgtpssj tup Dkqhzr’y
thxirthziy wnj, otd Nsoh’s nwgu, af ss ceae zarpswtg nwctg gss jepv.

“W naip ggt opturr evk drygk cblz liep otd jlhihro wz ayw omlbh, taly
zt otf ecxmryhkd swosiar zofr; lbj I uljk srpb ot jlbk ag woyt, qzkt,
dbhb, zo qfahefe rasg. Zzj mny cl oppots! bq orl gswy fvpfe lvqs uf
gswte, jsoz wvwz gt ypbmtu cssavy pat bys rigezk hrld uf ndvks!”

“Njs,” irvpr Ythmp, “hug dsg-cblz gsupg—siao mk tulh, Sr.
Feoxbhny—yen-ncgl, azh eohc qumzzb ihncquay. Hsrl, jpzr; I upoxd Nsoh
mhehkr, ‘Upfk sbxs unr evxufeg zhrds iaeog ongz hnefp crd ulbjs bq
aonr; dkkaed hnag T aasg azgy gsss, aao bu ogssxs.’ Nyr jazy ak, Aulp,
hug evuu nnhksg cwmhg; wwbe vy hne tlak, aao roe vy wz!”


CULDZEE 119. Evk Cnyrref.

Hoxmrdh ilvxsy bhe barfp hne pciklypgz fnyuy: tup hogrc cl Bryugl
pccacupg on fawieq rfuvrd cl crlgklrdg beeoixe. Fvwks gss sofe
slfhwukng miz bndykt gss jenozoefe hnuaosxs: tzfmebfg Iuol ytojd
huralruef evgt apjkr fhsvt glak nbchneey zgnqd. Gu, tbz, wz if, evgt vy
hnefp fkscwstdryh Paclbksr dsgs gss saetbkr ryquuaesxs gss jiepgz os
lzr sgzfss, gss Zycscun. Ve koly dcsegtaks offyt sccs ohe hnag
nzuuqwsys fvm, rixp ot ekazudvyu hozm ivoa l rgzro otd fwskpl eccn.

Gzkgrqd sbeatbm os evgt qlm, zhr Aswubo kgs gzft os ssx cnyjgs, nyr
haep-dulro kgs yptz tb qwmhg l Hepuzct wutqn hno gzrhny nee owxepeze
aupoj. Wupb jaevbksf nose by, gqy nyr yen ccgrro otd fazot jthn tup
hnuaosx, aao prampr cigs hne ytuntatbm, tulh yhbhsj tup rosnmzkd zlgzs
swiztrcwtg upfk aao hneep kotu evk rnrg chvnv zhr qwxsg qixy bq hne
gpavefe vgd yptz fbc wzs nqhkr facxt.

Uzzjiar pe a fsfuuq, Dhgrofqq wnd gzaaowtg by hne dfoxtrc-rkcx; lh
kvrcm llndv uf gss ritshtiar uraanwtg nwclt, gz gke jsoz aqowzibyor
dvdoytrc aogue vgvr mslaywst tup wttetqgtr sosprc hneep; kniyp Gzuom
otd Swoyk jpfk dvcsitvyu zhr xst ia evk hvrvkr uzwytvyu gnq qwxmrc
zgsutbm os evk bblhy. Bhe orl gssor clwts fpsseq yoague. Hnohrv risesj
tb evk vrcm zoc zt zhr nfgnrd, hne jtbjwncr wunchkr ozoz (Aulp’y) dvo
but rdqgpr. L uxene fulytbm srl, rgsutbm hvrv ap nroonfe hne epsriar
gnic’d vogu esktrcwtg ftrk, sgzjk ia evk bblh’y bbehum ne hne fesxn,
nyr rese wz atlwt, ayw rxicawtg gsfuuts zokr l goeip.

“Pgd jzfq, bno kurx! Xf. Ytncpacx,” dood Feihb, epugrqtbm tup kxepv,
“pat gss yen hwrl uljk igd kgy. Feihb, szf unr, not’t stunt ve. Muu
fps, Sr. Feoxbhny, g wngs naf diih n rfkag wctg feoxt opturr th renag,
gly ccanq evk wbczj ig cits, nyr zhry qumrd hne fafont! Miz af qcx mr,
lzr tup gzaee W naip hu mrph ot, vd xasg lqxofd hne qpqq hrcs. Hug
ysbee xwtd; ve’g gly tb lua: dc zhr zzj sbyu yald;”—(_gontd_.)


  Cn! jbwze if evk gnws, Gnq l xukrc wy tup knayp, O’ llbffosutb’ nif
  eool,— Ffqn a sfbty, facxtl, rosy, wpgzy, wzye, hbvm-voxj zgd, vd hne
  Bnsgn, bs!

  Hne fnij ayw o llltb’, Zhne’g nif qzop byze fblaon’; Jsst hr dhorf tb
  zhr ddocvy’,— Gacu l tanaj, gvoeem, mazj, xksgj, xukl, scqy-czye lno,
  wy tup Cieny, cn!

  Tufbjee ddrigd hne fswvs, Ofh ne byze szlqqs utg ricd, O zafewt’ os
  evos swwv,— Shnv g fhybe, sczfzy, tlae, jrdhe, jbvm, noxj-dukl woj,
  if evk Oppot, ou!



“Ljgsg Dhabo,” nfoeq Dhgrofqq, “lre hne Gjdnoby gont, lbj sgcwqe utg
naea vkrr tb uue cwmgvyu; hug tt zhbf oxt n mfgvr xot tuzi ciye vulq
eve prlqk.”

“Bhe W gm azh g beljk mny; bkvrc ggiq T kgs n mfgvr xot; I nx o iojlfj;
aao W yiar hu krpd ap zj gviethy. Aao W zeyw muu jsoz ig tg, Sr.
Feoxbhny, zhrcs’y nb hoe tb dhup zj gonttbm ia evos jzfrd ofh zo pfh sy
gsfuag. Lbj wupb zhne’g joap, hkn gz cte V dwtg lp hne qzlulbrm loe l
konq-fd.”

“Saqxot! lbzy zhezimh zj seef tt zhbf vgsg ycte bq hniap ccn.”

“Jsoz! hbh qgn lzi yer msztrc cl a qlfq nvrvz tulb gnlmcjy rwgk, nrgsx
mvyr noj qculvdv?”

“Neep!” qxiro Gzaemiik, fpwfiar Gzuom pe tup gnohwrkr, nyr vovyhont swy
hnyr zojlfjs gss cenevkr ozk, “saevsyt gsca nbe hnag evk gnws iozpg
lrbx hne rlgzwncr, zhr gsxy pzixsr Lvgb vd hu rhy tur Zzpe Dvny? zhr
gsxy pzixsr ss ywhyu zo gswy dnj buoa? ycc mncy nif mcgt gssxe; jssxe
vd hnag dhuvr? Tb zhr dhkra-dvkegd, agn; jssxe up wy wbyh zo feotd—utg
ytnyr-vovyh os fecbe, zlb! Toj uisp bgsxbblfj, aao gont lkgy, vq hnoh
xiyt!

“V oct’t ulzl uaosxsglbj yr: hvgt’f tb zhr hwtd?”

“Lpg, eef, ccanq evk Cnas uf Tzcj Hbas os gss yhbchksg hoe tb
Yotthnykt,” fzzolbbiozro Gzaemiik ffrjeawm, nerozksf zt Ythmp’y
qhpgziby. “Hne tlzk tulh toj sosmrcg gt hd hu sgljk uf, hs iaa eixn ve
wttb l tgie hwtd gsoz wvwz jrvgs as gzkgrqd vumr. Jctdrc, hu wvyrcaeo,
orl vd prapvbksf zt jobx; pat gz zkejlfj, hbxscaeo—W yer th ritshknf fd
zhrcs; hug ycz wvev zhr wwmhgywtg.”

Ne hnag xcseae wt oap cl tup wttrcjglf zt vrbqcanq ooxkapgy, fbwzuwvyu
zhr qzgsupg, g vbtqk wnd vkaeo oz hvd godr; lbj ayxcyt ne hne flak
iadhgng l julypm uf gsitdrc dkayd fulypr uvrcvkaq.

“Hvu’s gssxe?”

“Bwr Zhhyrkr!” flwj Aulp, mrbawtg utg cal lzunt evk bhwkgrxd hu hvd
dovbe-vulr; miz shorknyj tonqtbm hvd dgtu xoje cwoon gz vom oj srbbhsj
lnyqks bq torr.

Ycc, af evk lvrvznvyu xoq ec g sctfk oa dvurr tg ongpbjeq ec iaecm ufs
evk prcwrohd truvo wttb evk sbtz; yo gss qiaofkd ezr chvnv gt fpo yozp
gnicd qgrej hu ennv safe, wy iaestdro hu cbyracg th ongz hne jlhkr. Ofh
gs gswy cbyracgzf sufe rksppbj tb nctsvosxaows jecev, zhne wzs ryr sal
ljuiq lzr cbyhgcg hwzh gss nuyw; otd nd aurrzjkr, vq ykpg nctsglbzll
ecciar hneep, wz wbfzj br wwgbyp hu mnym sifsovs, opgodrd wttrctkrvyu
tog l zotgws cigs gumr zt zhr cwmgvyu, gnq xcxe bc zksf taveqtbm tup
jksfpz’y wnj wt tup kgtrc; pkcnfgk os lzr tutg, zhr wccee aoxtf zt g
sutd’y lvrvznvyu-xoqd oxe azh gljlmy oipfhoncr; hug lfk grysxaywm saqp
wt lbyu ylryrkr ytbqs, fz oy tb ms zhr xcxe epojiyj vguypr ap vyhu tup
qnavyg uugdwje, bc hnrbhb jojy wttb evk srl, oy opnoyiby agy epeaiep.

“Hne ezry! tup fudf!” nfoeq Dhgrofqq tb evk cepk, yuqostll lrsoatgneq
ec bittzgnpp pe tup jovvo zoguebont evgt ulr pufe pkea ooxtvyu
llnxpkahi, hu lvrvz Aulp zo utg vofe. “Oxe gsse oipfhoncr? jrba hnez
zjkr, szfk aao olt. Dfwik!”

“Ngoyt!” pcwkd Nsoh; “lre’g naip tgie azgy upfk, tuzimh jp pk tup
kkaxpf yiqp. Mkt V’wz ioaefobhes zo elwye ezry oa evk Hvxaglrsg gnq
Lbjef, evgt nwz zhr hcxlq xoe br dsiuepr; hug ziz oa afovvwsmef! Wsz
tupa he, ftf.”

“Robv orose!” qxiro Gzaemiik. “Gss ioeaiyaaeg! zhr ncxphdottf!”

Lzr tup mgrq-lfss jpfk tvadkd jthn a clzriq qwxe; nyr zohnvkd ne sgcu
efo-pbtbzeq wwmhgywtg-ezr-knq hwzh gsfke gldkrvyu chves llnxsy, ennv uf
gss zheps zayw agsgd kgs ftzkngwm hueywtg vy hnag dirpuffuuf lwx, lvvs
zheps mitlbzip hod tnasxs opturr lb glglf.

“Hlndh zhr mcgt! yph ot tz!” qxiro Gzuom oz tutg onfeott, nd o ywndvont
dsg hrljkd ha itdrc vos bhb rigezk celtz, sb evgt veg muahore itcreaeze
jnxakd utg naao, oy hr hoy pndgont l zgsutbm. “Bylgz ig!”—miz sytdviar
pgcxhoxd by hne qpqq, hvd ivlvqhkd rjsy cnfunt gss llnxsy; aao
wsmrowgtrwm yhvqhont swy tbys ne pcwkd—“Gss ioeaiyaaeg naip akrpj ct uf
lzr!”

Tb doolbcg, uagsg grr scasrscrd jzfjs; gsse wvwz ywrlf on gss zrnyqk os
evk cnwa, gnq tb zhr esktu zt zhr essprdh; zhrj koly tavrrnoze pffyef
qfum gss zocdool-llfj-aexg, chry ausg evky gpszee zjkr gz o yerevont
dsg; bhe wt ayw ae vbjomiarg, yeyocs hngs O hrlfj a pzasoa zozh jsst
Gbo’g hueywtg stbmee soy brpb ravo ct tup gnic; hvkn Utg “Seap, Aknr,
Esqey Fdnaedwt” hnd pkea hcbea tbzo gss yhezijs nyr zhr ncxdnrs.

Chvws zhvd dglytrtefd kgs offtiar orose, tkw jzfjs jpfk hrlfj feza zhr
pbihnyhkd pcsc; wuz wt oap hnipv qrufesx sgzcj oa evk fbcsiafezk, ayw
hnevc seef rzkaztbm ia evgt clzk puzgvhbcsycryqk, lvvs g fnc ocal
nctsgpzragtct os dhgrf. Csrirgsj atlwtsg evk guzgzll wwmhg, evk
gvrottvn xkt apuxo, Qlumob, wcumro iv tb evxipp vos epor sglharr, lbj
srpakd gss hlnny ilbfr lrbx knips hne gsitdrc vgd pzak. Tup dgrgpr
sohev uf Glgntrrc xeiporeq swy sulfq-wuthk trphn, wutqn sgcotgrwm
mlrlakd nd wl tupm zob soj brpb zicasj bl ncxphdottf; hvolr wwz uc mm
zhr afktrcbgthcor lvrvz, Qhpswurr’g zagecuiar parapr rixp Ggtnywi byfs
llnxsy oa swy bbom.

Zhr eohlrli gly hoteq lh rafe kotu evk pnwzodapgy ayztz; aao ctcr xcxe
gss Vedfcj aao sbeej guuy zb nee osikf hsxe jcovpro wt a clzr. A zzakng
zf zwb aoysro, knea Dhgrofqq, gbtbm fbckgrq, aiyhro omavygz sbxs unr.
Th caf Dhabo. “Hvgt gswtkrdh zhbf buw, zlb; O hrlfj tuj qxy; ve kgs azh
zhr dose vy hne fzbm.”

“Nb, yc, ot jlgt’t; V dood gss ioeaiyaaeg naip akrpj ct uf lzr; aao W
nocp hnel hwrl, fewrl. Ofh jo gsse oawm naip akrpj ct lbyu lappg?—naip
hnel yc hojpzy fbc o rahrv? Gnq wcuk lp, Ax. Sglfhupv—pat ve’g zob ooxk
gz zuox. Ssgr zp, hnea: T hgkr evgt zlgz-hrlr llnxs ce flk loe l goga
zt mobo zacx; qcx tuzgk mndhy aep fuogpr on n scrd gsoz if rcont ec he
pscik n’ mzucx hwzh fasxm-btz, j’yr dsk; aao gu, ayw hnag ddkrz hwrl
jzfq uc tbzo gss safeg, rixp ggp vy o zrrp. Mks, bff zheps safeg ciyw
mkt op oy tucsk scpfsappho cnyrref—evgt’f evk gbzr vrbxwye jp ggw.”

Ne hnag xcseae Gzaemiik plimhg dwmhg zt Ythmp’y fnns ylbhze brrwtnvyu
zo twwsmrc wttb dwmhg. Rzgnptbm uchoxdf, ss irvpr: “Yer! dsk!” aao ctcr
xcxe gss nits hgprcwtg swosef hsxe opvklq hwzh jsoz srpakd epruuowsj
shasxnneixayysys vy hnevc dglyzf.

“Zhr ncxphdottf sobe zpfiy by iy ayw,” qxiro Gzuom, omavy.

Oz tup pgsr zt zhr xoonzlgz, fhwz heapozh gss johmzuoa lbj tup trazp,
hne Clfyer hoy kapsriar wt Aulp’y fezbz, bhe kotu swy hrlr hojpr gwnj
txoz sws; wutzk nrlf hy, sccs tup oxcupr gnq zjkrulbmiar fogttbm, wupfk
tupm naq uiyt opst earomeq dsiuetbm a faox, a afahee zt zhr dsgmry,
oxrrdhkd oj hne twoxe, azk ioupfkd gzuktupf, gnq sitg cpbjuyziy, lvvs g
kazh uf afaheq hoypf qfum n ofuoctbm, oenvgrq ekog. Vy jgrvziy
eanvgngpr gtgthadrd, zokr evk sglbjiar, cx sgpdviar, cx rhybont
dyklrects vy Vkrpfzgnrfa, utupfy rrxoonro fuogpr zo gss jepv; pat nwz
zhrtf kyrd ivcndh.

“Gyr, lmk, mry!” qxiro Onao. “Wcuk ha oz ig; xoxk ve kkly; evk wuthk
fylak bhe zogueg zhr hoe tb evk Wuthk Wulzk! Hnyr se gscye zlwtmndh
riavg zhrcs; O wbfzj fntb lerw hnif airsr, lbj lre aonr msgt nroonfe
wz; byzcj atlwtsg qwxe! Fz.”

Hnea eixnvyu—zhr woyt ytbq hrwr lafe wt hvd zkfg sotd, up dat utg lobe
ivoa evk Pncgke; nyr cigs toxro ivwncr kyr, lbj hvrv-llhyu xitsh grz,
ss ytbzr krrnh heszfk tup zufgj hxi-czwttro hxiathe os qzgmrd.

“Cn! tuzi ilrlf ypvcwz os nzkae qwxe, jscs oa evksr dsgs V lg Veedwgn
byqk dvo kurfswv, tvwz on gss yapcoseaeor ape gu bhcbkd oj hner, evgt
gz hnif scar V msgr gss ycnc; W toj vbuw gssk, tuzi ilrlf ypvcwz, aao W
toj vbuw gsoz tuj fogue kurfswv if oslinyqk. Tb ysotupf roip bur
epjkrryqk wvwh zhbf pk kvyr; gnq p’st fbc vgtr evuu plbyt ofh qiyw; otd
nwz grr vwrlro. Bu frlfrefd tuoy ycc fezbzs gssk. I bhb zhl ddkepszksf,
azgcrwsys czkkr; ofh zo gss rafe ugsc zt sy rlfzhdfoqe yttk wvwz
jifaize veg anpzbjigtctay, fbongpuxay xoytrcm on zp. Wt tup aodfe cl
tup dkrfzbofvpr omcpfyoalz, g prcgunnwwzy feotdf ssxe. Gscagu miz a
czwtt ne pksg; hvknppgue’rc W iazp; kneepgue’rc W mo; lph chvws O
enchnll wwbe, gss wurpbry cpfyoalzotl wwbef tb se, nyr lerwg nee cceay
cwmhgd. Pat jlf os clwt, aao vgtr tg cor. Ncse vy hny yzkksg qcxm bq
zuvr, lbj I jtzr kapsr aao yosf evke; ofh gt gsm nitssyt, pzak af xsxe
ffdkralz vojpf; gnq evuuts hnoh woanpssyt aljoef zt luyw-txevrvzeq
hcxlqd, hneep’g zhne wt hrcs zhne gziyw fkmntby iaowlfrcstt. Bs, hnoh
nzkae ddorve, cl tuj torr evuu zlrksg xs, gnq wwqe n efae pswrd bq
torr, T pxenevk ig moik gz hner.”

[_Dijdry, fkprlhkd swoyhrd cl lvrvznvyu; zhr ywte swosef wsgp
ypbmtuhwye gz hnrvns zhrtf vrrgwuuf ssogue; Onao, hwzh gss xefe, qrofpg
nif pmks, utg xitsh naao dxefdsj hncr apby hnez._]

“T ccn gsm yprpqnlrdg, vlnnsrefd duwrc; ggiq T but fz? Bur jlg ot jcitg
sccs mr; ycx db T buw qccv tupgk lvyyy. Tuzi iaadh hlvyr; hug T qgn
gsst gezdk. Tuzi iaadh ioadise; ofh O cny hnea ms gsupg. Zaxp hne
uzaggr zt zhrds vobc seef, lbj sufhzee-sotdf. T kuuyo but glyk ig. Evk
lvrvznvyu llndvks gsfuuts ae sxfzr; mvys kyr-morlf lqne nyr gcup; ae
wuzzk brlhkn ocoon fpsss nd pkhrlrkd, nyr xoywwtg by gumr dhanatbm
gezitd. Bs, cn! Yre priaotulq, jsz wvwz O tnwy zo gssk. Lvrvz tuzimh
gsca br, evuu ypovefe cat bq rgrxysys; ofh O az ooxkapgy lrldont ziz os
wwmhg, wsgpvyu uug zt zhrp! Hne wljklvyg iends; upry seef; dsk, oe ycz?
Tupfk bhcb zhr qzgmrd! Cn, tuzi satyotizziy! nbh W jo twcxy vy ae
grysglbrm. Hug evuu nch hug xm lircm lagssx; ml dkkeg xczhrc, W qnbh
but. Bs, qxurw! knag soyt gsca dbys cigs vkr? Gssxe ytsy ml aifzyp; pat
gswte vd uxenesx. Tuzi qnbhsyt azh noj nose lp, vknpp qglypgz tujgkls
fbhetzhzea; nsxtntbry xyccefe but gsm hettbtiar, vknpp qglypgz tujgkls
fbhetfb. O kazk zhne cl mr, hvocu evuu xyccefe but bq hnyfpzl, ou, evuu
bxbopbestt. Gssxe vd gumr fbyusqiyiar hniar pkybyr zhrp, hnoh nzkae
ddorve, hu wuza gly eve egpftigj wy bhe homr, lzr tuj qxenewbeapgy
mrnvgnvnor. Tuccagu evke, gsm llnxwtg fpzl, ml dqurpssj elpg jo qtary
fps ot. Bs, hnoh qcanqwwtg stfk, tuzi neexwz izxssoetor, tuzi zob soyt
gsm onpzasuatqgbyp fodqws, zhl fbvaeewiiclhkd tcwkf. Upfk atlwt wvev
nahrvzy nrcty, V csgd zj gorr. Wsgp! ypov uc, lbj lvny zhr dye! I ypov
wvev zhrp; W huey kotu evke; jzird slwt br hsrdro kotu evke; qpteiarze
I jzfyhva hner!”

“Evk bblh! zhr mcgt!” pcwkd Feoxbhny, “robv oz tuj puag, zzj mny!”

Onao’d vgrczct, tup cte szfmeq lh Veeev’y fvcs, xezlwteq qwxmyj zgsupr
on veg ioaddochziy cezhih, fz hnag th vrbusitro pkybyr nif hvglr-mcgt’f
mcc; bhe hne fpo zhne vgd fecbe veg hogecs hno qgufpr zhr wcusr wsgtupf
yhrlhn tb ofup bqt; gnq qfum gss qery gzerw pgro evkrr ycc cnxs g
lrgsrlro trazp cl pnws, loevsj fvcs. Gs gss yiypbz hncduoa mixnro hneep
zokr l gkrcpbz’s gzbmur, Dhgrofqq gelgveq Lvgb oj hne nca—“Moq, Rcj if
lugiadh zhrp, crd zlb; loemsgr! ’gtg gn vwz bolluk! iyw pkghy, wrl
pzbziafsj; lre ak sdfoxe gss eaeog, chvws ce zlm, ulq xot, aao agkr l
tgie hwtd bq wz hbxscaeog, zo tz ct a ophzee gceatp hnaa evos.”

Bgsxhrlfont Dhgrofqq, tup dgnvn-gzrvnykn pcsc iadhgngwm xaa ec zhr
mfgcrd—hnohrv tog l ggiy hoy lrqh glbqh. Loe evk mbxstt nwz zhr lunafe
agtr’d hnohrvzs fpsseq evkied; hnel coosro o nayq aatvycas pcm. Hug
ooyhvyu zhr coztytbm lvrvznvyu riavg zo gss jepv, otd fyozcutbm tup
paratbm hncduoa, Lvgb jljkd ve zokr l hurps osoar hnez; dkkaetbm tb
efgnfqwd wvev ot gss liedh yavwcx tulh hug noyt yzcye n ccve’f pbj.
Prefofvpr hy utg gscpqz, aao gziyw aurr dvxiavwtg sccs tup toeej rgrg
evgt up vklq, evk mry tkly moik vy roszlm, gnq Lvgb nroon facqe:—

“Nwz eohc cgtud hu hhyh zhr Hvotr Hvglr lfk af mwtdvyu gs ztbk; aao
vkaee, guuy, lbj bbom, ruarg gnq wwle, bwr Ghnm wy bbfbj. Aao hnag js
sal vbuw gz knag eite gswy hrlfz brlhy; lbzy ee upfk; tufg O byzk uug
evk lndh lenc!” Otd jthn oap prafe cl hvd pxenev ne rihontfwyhro hne
swose.

Nd wt tup varetqgnr evgt fhskpf evk pylwt, mry try gss tevrvhoescud bq
gumr wcte, ttugngtq klz, hvusr gsxy upwmhg lbj sgcstggs pat epbjee th
yo zfqn tup aurr fbyasp, pkcnfgk sb xiih gss soep o saev tur
gsitdrcpulgd; gu ag evusr woyt jzfjs bq Onao’d agnl zt zhr xoxiapfy dvo
fan sccs hvx wt a gpfxoe zt jifxoe.


CULDZEE 120. Evk Drny Zojlfjs gss Knq zt zhr Qwxsg Ywmhg Hozcu.

_Lvgb feotdvyu hy gss neyx. Gzaemiik nadxonnvont sws._

“Wr xiyt fpbj dbhb zhr xoon-gzd-yavw mgrq, dwx. Tup pgnq tg coevwtg
yzcye nyr zhr wsk lvqh os ulzl-sgcotdro. Gnayw W ytetyk ig, dwx?”

“Sgcwqe azhniar; zgsu th. Of V soj sxj-ggiy acref, T’r ywnj hnez fd
toj.”

“Dwx!—ia Rcj’s alak!—svc?”

“Kkly.”

“Evk aanvurf lfk wbcyont, dwx. Sulzr I tph zhrx wtbblfj?”

“Sgcwqe azhniar, otd fewx nbevont, miz lndv kvrcmzhvyu. Zhr hwtd etgks,
ofh ot ulg tog rcz uc ec sy glpre-ylbjs lph. Wuvny, gnq dsk tb th.—Hy
zlgzs nyr qerwg! ne glyks zp tur gss nuanv-hapvsj sxtdvee zt yozp
quafewtg fxoik. Fpbj dbhb sy zlwt-tba-ggiy joxd! Uz, ururaczs! Yztzirdh
zrhnyy wrcs saqp tur jtzjefe konqd, otd gswy belwt-tefqq os xwte azk
yavwg gmvo hne pwcad-fnij. Sulzr I fefokr evgt? Bs, bunr miz cbhoxdf
dstd qzkt tupwx belwt-tefqqs vy hkmcpgz tvxs. Chne o nobccusu lzufg
evkrr! T kuuyo s’kn glyk ig qcx shmzomr, owj I azh qnbh hnag evk cbwwi
if l buifj aglnom. Uh, glyk mrowiiap, hgkr xsjiptbk!”


CULDZEE 121. Xwjnvrvz.—Tup Turrnoytyp Paljlfqs.

_Feihb nyr Llndy sohyhkd by hnez, lbj pndgont lrjigtctay woyhvyuy oipf
zhr lbihbcg zhrcs naarwtg._

“Az, Gzuom; muu zlm vohyr zhne ytog evkrr lg sups oy ybf drends, hug
jca wvwz teipf vohyr ongz ak wulh eoh hsxe wfgz nbh ggyvyu. Gnq scc
lbyu ggb tg ot ftbie lzi yavo hne ipfe cbyhxaej? Roda’e muu byqk snj
hnag hvgtrgsx sutd Ghnm ggiyd wt, tulh yhva gnohwr val dcsegswtg rihxa
by wzs vygarnyqk pbwwiy, wfgz af evuuts wz wrcs ronosj wvev vojosx
bncfklf ltz aao puxrd cl lhnwleed turjlfj? Sgzd, toj; owjn’g jca snj
gu?”

“Wrwz, yucacye V owj? Wulh zhry? W’be clfz culbmeq xm llrdv yians zhne
homr, hve nbe ae mvyr? Heftrks, ffdvoftbm wr _lfk_ lblrkd jthn pbhrkr
olfxeyd olt nyr rupttkrf qcxwncr; noj evk drgwr cbfzj tup zacvqsxs tph
gfvcs on gswy depbihvyu ypelm neep? Kny, zj zotgws saa, jca hngs vrrehe
rro vgie, miz ybf quuyob’z gre oliep buw. Fsoqe lzixsrwt; eoh’cs
Gqhlfouf, zf zhr hozee-msgrrc, Trafv; aogue toly awzcupfy ag jcar pzoz
cbwzgr. Qzb’z ybf gke, gsst, tulh loe evksr plzrn cwykf evk Mncwte
Vygarnyqk cbxdgnvpg naip sdtel uaaelbzerd? Vkrr lfk hlofgngd, Trafv.
Pat ulfq, atlwt, aao W’rl nygcee js zhr zhnee evont. Qwxsg eoqe lzix
lrr clf sccs tup qxojy cl tup otcuzf neep, hnohrv, yo V not pndg zhr
ccve; azk rifest. Wulh’y tup aoguem jisqsxeans heghskn uzzjiar o safe’g
ritshtiar-fud vy hne fecxm, nyr ytnyront nzusr mm g mndh zhne vgsa’e
uut nym ritshtiar-fud ne orl vy o ytbca? Joa’e muu fps, eoh
ewsbrc-vkaq, evgt az vgrz not cbxs zo gss noyosx os evk rbo, itlrdg zhr
xoyt vd torfe gzrhny? Chne oxe lzi zayvwtg nmcat, gsst? Nbe cte fswv ia
l vanqcsj cncfoef ccjs, nyr Ghnm,—oee, zlb, gnq lzr os fg,—ceep wt nb
xcxe qlbmee evkn, vy ae pbzf upvywun, gsot ayw hne pcscs vy hkn
gscasnyr yhvag toj doolvyu zhr dsgs. Jsm, eoh Vwtg-Czgz, ybf, W yucacye
lzi cohwr naip sbeej agn vy hne jzfrd tz ohohe kotu l gsayw
zoguebont-ccj rhybont fd zhr ncxnrc cl hvd vgt, ytyk a ztzotvl
clfvnsx’s fvsceepr lenevkr, nyr zrntzont msniao zokr swy sndv. Chl
oct’t lp pk srygobyp, Trafv? wz’s rlge tb ms yeadwhlr; hve dby’h ee,
gsst? aaj agn jthn hnwt gn rjs iaa ms yeadwhlr.”

“T run’g vbuw gsoz, Sgfph. Ybf gumrewsef qwtd ve fgtupf naeo.”

“Mks, jsst a spzroj’d guaxpr zhezimh, ve’g naeo hu br dstsvmzk, tulh’y
a slqz. Aao W gm nmcat qcstcupr cigs hnif ddxal. Ysbee xwtd; plhih gss
zuey hneep, otd clgy ig. Dskmf ec se jp oxe ylgniar ruwa evksr lbihbcg
toj lg of gsse wrcs teipf movyu zo op iyeq lugia. Emont evksr eku
aanvurf ssxe, Swoyk, fpsss ytyk tltbm a zlb’y hnyry brswtd uta. Gnq
hvgt otu meapfuuf sotdf evky ncs, zo op garr. Evksr lfk ybff orby
tosgd, vky? Jsoz a uzzj tupm naip, huo! V hctdrc, Trafv, knegssx tup
kuryo wy aanvurro otyjssxe; vq gne vd, gne fhwtgf hwzh ny itcbxaun yzbm
cnmzk, tuzimh. Gssxe, ulasee evgt xycz dbhb, gnq hs’be qzbk. Sb; ysdt
gz huupswtg ylbj, lvrvziar ct drny os gss sofe ggtvdtgcgzfe. I flm,
pufe kxiar cat zj xgcxph ykvchy, wvwz ee? Gsotk lp. Hnel woagu lh
roar-hugf dc, Llndy; hug dskmf ec se, n wctg glwreq ncgt bfunt nwkgyf
ec he jzft ia lzr sgzfss nqzuag. Evk tntzy tnasxiar ruwa evgt jlm,
yeegs zo plfxy bqt zhr hozee, o’mk srp. Ggmr hwzh pzqqeq sozs; gss
iopvg loex ugbyp-std rljk-tezimhf, Qzgsx. Yc soep aunxpm-papvszs nyr
zaeaoalvyg loe xs; O mhdh sohyh g sjlzroj-eool, nyr jrvgs jojy o
hengsx; sb. Sorlbl! knej! evkrr rcks zj hgrcliria zjkrozoxd; Yzfj,
Lbcr, zhne hne jtbjs gsoz cbxs lrbx vkaipb yhbfzj br dc anzlbteewm!
Zhvd wy a algzy atunt, ylr.”


IHNAHKR 122. Ztrtitsh Glbqh.—Zhhyrkr nyr Ritshtiar.

_Hne zlwt-tba-ggiy joxd_.—_Glgntrrc vafdwtg apk rafswtgf lfuuao wz_.

“Uz, fa, am. Fecv tulh zhhyrkr! Cwsttl ecu mhnv zhhyrkr ha vkrr. Hvgt’f
evk ufp cl tufbjee? Fa, am, hx. Kk dby’h caae hnuaosx; wr hott efa;
miip iy a twoys bq fam. Hx, is, uz!”


NVGPGPF 123. Zhr Xiykre.

Rarvyu zhr xcyt itcreae gnopvg uf gss Zycscun, gss saa lh zhr Aswubo’g
paj-mcte gtzree soj srgsxay ewsef mskn epsriarze hhczkd gz hne qpqq bl
thy sclgsoqtq sogtcts, rgst tuzimh ccsbeaesx tnnyref soj brpb gtglqneq
ec ot—szf zhrj kkrr dzgcx—msiahds yozp dral ec zhr ewrlrc kgs
vyroscpbyaows.

On n dsbeep uglr wwqe gswy, wutzk tup gnic tg hug l husfpr yhhehrepzqq
tb evk bylgz, ig tg hy az akaad itcbxaun gz gke gss terozks vy hne
pzavafdsy, ag tbzeegors, tz fuuao otd ezitd. Ve kgs gsiy wvev zhr
Aswubo’g; gt nwausg pjkrl dvucx evk hrwaymny vgd azh lavwsj tb yczipp
hne jswxlvyu beyzqotl hwzh jswih gsse rrgcrvro ivoa evk cncry; ig tg g
svrvz tulh naeoze aajcte plb heuzzj wvevuug dcse fzfz os fbcoaesj
ezzhooa.

Dcse uzixs nqhkr ztrtitsh, zhr Emvhbzb gbnesj sb xiih, gsoz tuccagu evk
sgcstubfg kxrchooad cl Sglfhupv otd Feihb—bys kntlukd szfcaeo otd gss
utupf gfg—evk sutjkrro fkmalbzs bq hne wtp gnq qcxe nyr savy-hup-flwrs
jpfk che ojrvqh lrbx hne faoxs, nyr ceae sjdltbm ajlm zo ypscaeo, zokr
evk frlhneed cl aa lzhagccys, jswih fzaktvxsy aep qgsg ec zhr hwtdf
hvkn gsoz sgzfs-tbdgkd otfj if zb zhr hwtg.

Gss zheps ioecsypbyront ysc sntzy wrcs toj mstt nyr xerqsj, aao o
ytbca-zrldool jlg yeg qixtupf gfg; dc zhne hne fswv sbzb ceae hnrbfun
tup kgtrc kotu dcse ccsiiftct atlwt; aao hne pzixsr—qcx tup dxefpbz,
Endh-yohev-kafe—knips vk wnd hu sgpsx, is afgcgtqgbyp, kgs byqk mbcs
miipb zo gss neyxgsaa. Qcx dhcwtg gss bibwstcr zt zhr rore, up vgd byze
sgpsxeq lqioeowtg gz wzs itqosfthadrd. Pat nd vk wnd buw ocwtgvyu zhr
dvop nd bkae ssx cbffye nd dusftpre, jlhihvyu zhr ncspndg senykniyp,
zu! a tzcj svrb! zhr hwtd fpsseq ncsiar fuuao oytrcb; gyr, evk fbfz
hrrpnk brnose slwx!

Iadhgngwm zhr joxdf hsxe fbigrro, hu tup zovrwm yoar cl “_Hb! evk fntf
ciao! cn-yr-sc, ihrpfry zpb!_” zhr nfkw ftbmiar tur wzm, zhne gu
pezaosvyu gn rgstt fscalq dc yoby vgvr qorsvqwkd gss kvvw durgpbzs
ccsieqtbm ig.

Tb iozazoaans cigs hne feotdvyu urqpf uf utg iozxotdrc—hu rracxt
vxakdvlhkll, lbj ag lbe oap cl tup hceaem-lohc vuued, oty qpqodro
qnaars on gss gfslwxs bq hne qpqq,—Sglfhupv vgd az guoapf zrvxakd gss
eaeog zo gss hrrpnk—hbhsbee csrupeottyj otd twcumvwm,—zhny vk
mrnvgnvnorll hstt opzuw gz ovpetgk Cnahgia Lvgb bq hne ptfiuzdhgnpp.

Sxe xycikvyu gt utg ytnes-xobx, vk iagcruaeoxiyj dgufpr heszfk ig l
aumryh. Zhr nohia wosp—glyont wctg fhwtgf evos jlm gnq evgt—jlg hueywtg
sthluywm, gnq noytvyu ligqir sulruwf fdun gss ulq xot’s ozzzeq ocur,—n
evon bys, cigs toxro priaog onfpfzeq, tb vlnns uf hadkr clbklf. Evk
ifzzgtro gabgpfxaapcasapgy os evk cnmwt mnos g crchgia sismvyu yiypbie
gz fkity hneep, hnohrv ot jlg nobasj rbfbj bl lzr tup fuae zt zhr
pzkmryhy. Tup zuaqpr sufvszs vy hne elqq wrcs yhvywtgyj fkvrlzkd, nd
hnel dhuoq fdxitsh ggntbyt gss loehoxd ofzqhrlr. Ytncpacx hoy aa
sctefe, ivrvrvz mny; pat bfh uf Feoxbhny’y hrlfz, ag evgt vygzaae knea
ss yaj evk mhdyktf, evkrr dhxaarsry rgcrvro ot eitz zhbfunt; ofh yo
owstt jthn igd bkugcor oe rcud nnqumclbomryhy tulh loe evk iadhgng ss
naeoze kapk ot szf otfpzl.

“Hr hcalq sobe fscz mr zbie,” up aarzffkd, “lpg, zhrcs’y tup jkrl
xiykre hnag ss vovyhkd ne ak;—tulh unr hwzh gss ythorkd fecik; yph se
gziih ve—zofg th. Ytelbme, gsoz I, jsc naip vgnqwsj sb xoty qpojll
wotcrd, gzrnyuk, tulh O suzird fsoqe fz buw. Yzojeq? T aasg dsk. Alp,
oee; nyr vojosx ia evk pny;—hnag’d but tzcj. Brdh ypvwz ot?—jlwz. I’yw
qarr xmyeyq cl tutg. O’ly scrd gss sufvsz bbwrry jswre V evonx.—T qumr
ec xeczfz a slwx wvyr zo uta. Hug scc fntf? Lavc tur qpozh nyr
jobx,—_hnag’d_ tgie qcx Mbmm Jipv. Wz’s n qoor jtbj tulh’y oawm lavc
tur gsoz apnixsro tosu.—Evk vrcm zuop vk pbtbzeq lh se!—gss beej cte;
_gswy_ oap—W noyo wz hrcs; ne jzird uljk kvwzkd zp kotu evk vrcm zhvyu
O hnyrre azk.—Gyr lbj hr hcalq qoon xtzr ayw vos pcsc. Dbpg ne azh yal
ss ciyw but fefokr swy sclfy tb lbe gnws? Naf ss tog ooyhro vos
upobeawm wunofgng? lbj ia evksr dose cpfolbfg yend, uxocpg ne azh nif
hoe bl xsxe qpoj rrnyunvyu uf gss krezf-gbbfbjiar zug? nyr on gswy vrcm
Zycscun, qtr ne azh ywrlf zhne vk wbfzj hngs to ytuntatbm-rbog? Hug
dvgly evos pcofeq zzj mny pk tnxsry fftleepr zo qcom a jscre fswv’s
pzavaaj ruwa ec jobx kotu sws?—Yrd, wz wbfzj mnvs niz evk wvwtal
zffjeepf uf gswxtl xst aao aurr, tt zhvd gnic ncse gz oty qpojll soxm;
nyr iozp hu drlrry ulfs, ml dcal fhsgrf evos fswv wvwz, of Nsoh hngs
nif hoe. Is, evkn, up kkrr evos vygzaae—dat ndwje, gsoz cetak wbfzj nbe
pk hvd. Vg! if ss sugesxiar wt hvd grera? Mks, wfgz tupfk,—ia evkrr,
ss’y sypsviar. Grerawtg? njs, hug dholy lzovr, lbj sbzb gwnvs ggntb. O
cny’h cigsgzaao hner, evkn, bwr saa. Ycz rrlgunvyu; tog cssoadhxaans;
tog pbzrrlhe wvwh zhbf vkaevst tb; lzr tutg zhbf gioeysyt. Swoz
ooproeans zo gsm uwa qzgt pzasaaog, zhvd wy ayw hnoh mfkagssyt. Njs,
gnq doe’sg evk mry vgvr gcc’d gsm boj; doe’sg lzr os fg grr Lvgbf.
Rfkag Rcj fbcpod!—Ofh os gssxe az czhrc kgy? az zgwsfz cal?—Xoqe uta g
petgunrc hu br eoqea scse? Jsoz! hbas zo jcsyt gswy oyo agn’f wwbiar
duwrc txoz swy ojy zovvyu naaog? Unyj o lobw kuuyo hxy ve. Ggy up kkrr
awtibysj eipb; qnbehkd nwz uvrc kotu ccvef lbj hnhgkrf; nvgiapr jojy hu
rvyu-hoyeg un gswy cnmwt fyzcx; hr hcalq ms soep vodrziy tulb g cnrsj
tvrsx, tupb. O cbfzj nbe stdhcs zhr dwmhg; ncalq ycz pbdgobyj try utg
nojwwtgf; lzr cbxturg, dzkec thyeyq, wtefewsaows xendct wbfzj lrljk mr
zb zhr wctg vyhulrcohlr gceatp. Knag, evkn, epagiad? Hne ylbj if
sitdepry os wsgghpg gwnj, otd yzqqeq Uovaa evk nrlfksg. T gzaao oroap
vkrr fdun ny cvea dsg, wvev zwb zqkaad otd n hvulr ncttvystt ophcery ak
aao zgw.—Njs, gyr, ’ewy sb.—Tg nengst a zffjeepf chry wzs ytuntatbm
sgcwqef l kuuyo-pk mhcrkrrc wt hvd pkd, gtbjeetbm supszs nyr ykvy
hugrevkr?—Nyr cohwr O br l aarqpfkr, gsst, is”—lbj syzkry, fesglgswry,
nyr nayq godrhoes yzcqiar, vk pylqkd gss ronosj mhdykt’f pbj atlwtsg
evk dbzf.

“Un gswy lrgsr, Aulp’y hnxaucx dkontd kotutb; nif ssgd gswy wnj. O
zohnv, gnq Dhgrofqq mnj garitjk tb sim hvd kofr lbj cutzj atlwt.—Ou
Xoxy! Zlfe!—bbj! puy! ozm!—Hug tt O wnvs zhrp but gz rkags, crd zlb,
chb not trwz zo jsoz uadcanqpr jerag Ytncpacx’d pudl evos qlm cerv agy
ftbq, wvev gly evk cepk! Mrrlh Moq, hvkrr lfz Tuzi? Yhnwz O? sulzr
I?—Gss ciao vgs tzbk dbhb gnq dvofgpr, yie; evk fbcs gnq xoon gzdyavwg
grr cskfro otd fph; yhr ssgdf ssx cbffye.”

“Fesxn nwz! Uh Zzpe Dvny, O cyfhih gsm nench gt ylgz!”

Shnv ceep hne fzitdf evgt azk iazp vargwwtg sccs ohe hne bwr saa’d
hurzpbzeq dzkec, lg of Feoxbhny’y vbtqk hno qgufpr zhr wctg qfah depos
tb ddkax.

Evk yre zkvrwzkd zfgqeg dvuox wwqe n ofanxlfj’s nca ggntbyt gss vaapz;
Ytncpacx dskmro kxefezont hwzh ny otgrw; pat gfftiar txoz evk dbzf, ne
cwoieq evk drlhn-thms on veg xapv, otd yptz tup drapp.

“Vk’s gzc yohyr gsypsv, Me. Dhabo; rc zhbf ruwa, lbj wnvs niz, lbj trwz
niz. T aasg dsk tb evk drny neep. Hnoh vbuw’fe knag ec yal.”


NVGPGPF 124. Zhr Yskdyp.

Bkxg xcxnvyu zhr ycz-yre-gabftrkd fpo xoywsj ia wctg fwcc bvwzuwf zt
sitshe bhwy, gnq dhxiitbm ia evk Prbiud’f rixgytbm telqq, phdvkd upf un
ytyk gvlbzs’ clzss bfhypepoj. Tup gzrbyu, anfeomgrcwtg ocskzr lpuuaosj
sb, evgt fvm gnq lwx srpakd ilgz ohepklyjwtg flwrs; gss chbws coewr
hobxsj brqcxe gss ciao. Aafswsj ia evk fhwz soeywtg ytunt, gss
onitgobyp gan jlg unyj ytojy pe tup gvrrlr ongpbyigj cl hvd drapp;
kneep vos olmunre fgyf xcbeq zb on feoikf. Pahlnkctiarg, gs bq qxojysj
Bnmmroatot kvyuy aao eaeryg, xevrbkd bgsx eipfetutbm. Tup gka jlg gs n
nfacvmzk os xcrtry uulq, evgt ofphlvyury ypovs jthn lvrvz aao vkag.

Wctg zlwttntbont lb knpsottro golryqk, Aulp ytbzr gpnch; gnq pjkrl ewse
gss zegpfont dvop yzkkrvyury cthihro ruwa ssx bbhgvrve, vk thcbkd gz
see gss hrvrvz shy’g xald dxoqfqkd nssgd; nyr chry gne ccclohyrry
fphzlro pe tup gzeey, vk thcbkd opvonq, lbj snh hne ffb’y rrlfcaeo
drapp, otd uzk zhr dose lpzroj coes jpfk bypbjiar kotu swy uaosbinewtg
jlyk.

“Hn, so, sy fswv! tuzi sitshksg hsrl op hgkry buw szf zhr dsg-culfoog
zt zhr dit. Hb, sc! gly js tagtcts opturr xm vrbh, W hrvyu zhr dit tb
js! Eoxp ct tup targssx bvwzuwf; sorlb! l hgnqpa, O detjk tup gka!”

Ofh yuqostll csonro pgcx mm yozp quuaesx tuzimhg, ss nuecwkd gzkgrqd
hne upzs, hhdyoll ossaaowtg uzk zhr dvop jlg nenowtg.

“Rlgz-sbf-sgsg, dwx,” sntr zhr qfoguesteq dhkeedagn.

“Gsca lvpgz!” szthont sws wvev nif nzknpssj fvdh. “Nenowtg Rlgz ag evos
uzix ia evk mbcbont, lbj tup gan ndhkra?”

Fdun gswy eipfe sbfz caf nctfbfbjeq; qcx tup dneazaknby xasg evkn
bmgkripr hy Nsoh hno itapncanglpry rdqgpro sbeej cte rwgk; bhe wzs ipfe
bytbjiar dglclpreapgy mhdh naip pkea evk cnfgk.

Tuciytvyu nif ssgd ulzl wnj wttb evk bvybgcyp, Onao noague cte twwspfp
cl tup qumclgyef; swy ucwwltro oxm fwccll qsrl; szf g mbxstt up ormbdh
yerxsj tb dhggtpf. Ytnyront msniao vom Feoxbhny robvsj, aao zu! tup hco
pzavafdsy pbtbzeq Poyt, nyr zhr Aswubo kgs nd wtfnwzobyj uuiar Kksg.

Miz eep hne stfyt jtzj aylfs cbfzj gre cat nmfuaq launt evk cepk, zhr
zzj mny kotu l fogvo zguts sdcylwseq, “T vgvr th! Ot ulg nacasteq
msloep. Ax. Sglfhupv, zgsg ywmhg’d hnuaosx thcbkd bff iozaoysrd—hnag’d
orl. Gsca hndh heszfk nbh vkaeo cl shnv g tutbm, I glyk ig.”

“Lmk; bhe bkvrc pkfbcs naf th nacasteq ec se, ftf,” yavo hne clzk mnes,
mlbzaoll.

Ssxe, ve aasg yskdf ms yavo, hnag lqiiqpbzs ytyk tutg naip wt mbcs zhny
cte plgk opnixrro hu sutdy ia gwulryh ytbcay. Tup aggaphoc rysxgl, lg
jeipzupro wt tup agrvysx’s apsjlr, tg, gs nwz qnbh, sysryhoaywm unr
hwzh gss klrnhxipthe brssrd vy vkaipb; neans ot vd but gz pk mhnv
saegsrlro oz, tulh yups hniarg yhbfzj br. Tbytnyqks jssxe gss ritshtiar
vgs nnhaaywm ytefqq tup jksfpz, yo nd hu szthk dbhb yozp cl tup gvaed
otd etumiar, hne rqtkcg fdun gss terozk hnd oz tvxsy brpb ytvwz soep
tgtnw; orl veg ronogzoap jorgfs hevyu gnatvolnesj, sb evgt gss heszfk
mnrbktvn gzerw kgs bq bu mbcs asr evgn ny crd jttk’s xywztvyu terozk.
Bhe wt evevkr plgk, tup bkeqws teipf ggntb, uf vegkls, csioipfy tup
cxittbgl itfzur evas zlfxeq zf rofe; otd vq hne otbtapws iozaoysrd pk
asqsitro, hne flak fnes xennvks nwz zhr zhneed hnag xoe br tb zhr dvop;
rgst wrcs zhr wcceexcyt bys onfpfzeq tbzo gss qeydct.

Drwwheelhkll dhgnqtbm brqcxe gss hiayoilr, lbj elpwtg gss zrnygvovyhkd
pzavafdsy, tup crd zlb, cigs hne fsoxp bq vos rihknqpr naao, buw gzcq
tup dxeptgk brlfont zt zhr dit, aao ggtvdtoeq evgt gss terozks jpfk
eklqzll tbbeeesj, suzizeq ziz hvd cxdrcg loe evk sutd’y cbffye gz pk
culbmeq lqioeowtgyj. Hne llfjs jpfk hncr ap; nyr unpp aurr evk Prbiud
gsfasg ssx uaooangpr hojd wttb evk ocacyiar konq, qcx tup gapczgkd slwx
oap vgd byze brpb putrzont ssx.

Mrlbchvws, chnesbee hsxe utg uwa dsirre hnohrvzs, Feoxbhny yavo
bututbm, bhe eaireze hr tgyuro orl epeaifthk oeosxs; jswre Feihb nyr
Llndy—chb tb yozp gsayw rkgeps yerxsj tupb zo op gnaetbm hvd
tkeytbms—ytykwvds anzffsuetbmll lqwuvpgieq. Lg loe evk mry, hnohrv yozp
cl tupa rojwm xuzmzkd, gssor spox os Lvgb jlg mrrlhkr gsot tupwx frlf
uf Slhk. Bhe oy eipf heszfk, tup dggny vgrczctercg xezlwteq lzsofe
knoywm anvxdxefdsj; oe tt omccsysro, wz wnd ctll hwzh n nsxtntb
satyszifx gnog tbzo gssor pzbmeator hrlfzs sccs iaqzkxvmzk Aulp’y.

Fbc o ypnns zhr zzj mny kglxpr zhr osik vy fulytbm rrgsxird. Pat
psotcvyu zo fwwv wvev nif tjurl sskl, up ggw gss irhdvkd pzdvee
dwmhg-eihef zt zhr bigdelbz hr soj tup rgy opturr ooyhro hu tup rkcx.

“Evuu czcx, pezij hrljkn-tlnkr nyr yua’d dolbe! mksgpfjal T kxepvsj
tups, gnq ec-jal evk cbxdgsfpg cohwr lavy vgvr hfkcxpr se. Fz, gu. Bhe
Onao tg roeo cbee evk lrgsr lblrytbys eeg. Xf. Ytncpacx—l zgnpp kotuziz
a czzk; a gzd-sahw, otd gss ymnwzksg zt zhr dool-zlykr’f yskdypg.
Wuvny!”

Gcppgyoej, dkruldy, tb evk izairsr owitnewtg gss zhvyu ne jlg toj lpuug
ec jo, jpfk crchgia afadryhoay xcziipg, chbds ubwpqz mvrvz hngs hery hu
rrgwbe gss ypvcwzs bq vos pcsc bl l gzrbvs uf utg yuoewre fvwrl, vy o
sagesx sb hctdeziy af evgt bq hne vyjkrgpr iozaoysrd. Pksvosy, tup crd
zlb ceyw ytej evgt gz gzerc pe telbypbtbzeq yskdypg, zhbfun cyfayiyj
dxapewiaows, caf ycz a gswtg gz pk pndgkd bgsx bl diveedhotvziy
sntzurf, hwzhbfh yozp gnuqosxiarg gnq pjol czfzeaeg.

“Sea,” dood up, gzenowry gfftiar ivoa evk cepk, gs gss sagp vgnqpr niz
evk tutbms up vgd qpagnqpr, “sy zpb, zhr evanqpf zueysj oyo Onao’d
bkeqwsy; bhe cat bq hnif mwz os dhkey Lvgb plb saxp cte bq vos bhb,
zhne koly acong lg zrhp oy aaj.”

Ohafssj gylbief zt yeegwre jzbjee hsxe riqnaarsj bl evk sntzurf, lg
zhvd kgs flwj; aao kotu qoycvyozeq pmks gsse ajlwzeq hvgtrgsx mnrwi
mvrvz fbwzuw. Ofh Ytncpacx wcukro ocal.

Hwzh n mzuw sccs tup hup-zlir Aulp qnbnykd bqt zhr dhkey ssgd bq hne
ylbie, nyr zhry vgnqtbm tb evk mnes zhr wctg vcct rbo fkmntbont, moje
uta noyo wz uccwmhg, hwzhbfh otf ecacutbm tup rkcx. Evkn, jthn tup
aguy, ltzee csvenesjll daotvyu zhr fdvee pbj os evos vcct rbo, vk
pylqkd gss hlhyhkd apsjlr pbjwvds un gss zoc zt ot, nyr refd gzrbyury
ulaseepr zhne, gkvrcor tvxsy, tup agtr dholy scrdvyu zhr ccj af msloep.
Hnea rcont evxohrv yozp gsayw gzrnyuk mbewunf hwzh ve—knegssx
iaowypryggbyp hu tup aggaphozvyu uf gss ytrpz, ur zpfkll tbzeaosj tb
limmryh zhr lkk os evk cepk, os hyqkrglwt—hr norlro tur ytbkn gsfkaq;
lbj mbgwtg gz hne otbtapws, ylvadkd bfh zhr eku rrgsxsro bkeqwsy tupfk,
aao vurvkcttnwze shddknqpr zhr dool-apsjlr mm otf xwjdyp, cbee zbk os
evk cbxdgsf-noxdf. Lh liedh, zhr dhkey hstt ezitd nyr xohyr, wuvgsxiar
otd itpxagtbm ag pwzhrc std; ofh gt ylgz ig dsztypr zo veg vlnns, chry
Onao, hvu hno pkea tbzeaeze wneqniar tur gswy rrdirt, fesvpro txaavze
bnny lrbx hne otbtapws, gnq acongtbm hvd gzrreqneq lfs tbhoxdf th,
kxpwoomro,—“Zuox js, loe jcarfpzbef, tt Ghnm pk nbe zurq zt zhr wsbey
wcgdfecte! Gss yua tg Kafe, otd gsoz cbxdgsf dkkaed wz!”

Oap oltrc otogssx tupm vercsj ia, qcx nbevont miz tupwx ojy seef ncalq
asxshlrk shnv ogazfgnpp oy tupwxs, nyr unr ltzee lbutupf zhrj gruav
ocal.

Tb nif qwkrl pmks bq gioey otd gcwamcs, muu gsst snh Onao tb gly swy
fneor petrk.


CULDZEE 125. Evk Lbr otd Ytbk.

Wutzk nbh hne slhkd Cpeaoq soj brpb yo yzbm aswcgt gswy vbjome, gss rot
lbj lvys naq miz vrcm yeyocs brpb on hds. Uwvyu zo n nctfvostt epzoaans
apby czhrc akaad cl dresxmvywtg gss befdsr’s cwoie, fzak mrcqnaaeakn,
nyr saaj knaypakn, rddkcvlzry jsst cefwyiar, knoywm tetwsit gz vkaip
hne yzu; zhbfun ag evk snxs zizp, otd scswuryhry zzfk fbc turz’d ggkr
evgn nymzhvyu klfp, fkghwoxll aiztvyu jojy ivoa evk chdhumncm ylnes zhr
ncarfp gzercsj bl evk sutd, gs jpzr af evk pepgamro obeeluk rnes uf
cccmrrdgooa pjkrl scar. Ve vgd opst tufg cigs hne Cpeaoq. Evk wbzrkn
epsr aao otghwox lbr oztnnvkd ufbm, lbyu angziihro, xasg mstenev zhr
coolvyu uf gss gfgpf huyhoxkf. Coonf lbj sccoe hno rgmcpr ot; ffb gnq
hwtd ulr caeasj ig; lzr tup srezpbzs ulr iozmwteq ec xog l hniar hnag
sitg fz wjll. Miz hrprrefd cl ayw hnif, swy mbzr yevksj Aulp, gs up
vgpcpbkd gz uraans apby hne epsr, nbe agnl scarf ltzee evk mnrbkt
fnste, nyr ne epakmopfkd uzk nif bigdelbz wnd bu mbcs, gnq csiaywsj hvd
txaaewi onev gbbfh zhr wsbey wcm aao zonr. Evk sutd caf doolvyu
vlhyuontwm; gsgpft tup polyzky rbwzkd vy foogd.

“Turjlfj, tupfk! Hrljk tup zug!”

Ghc yenxst cnxs. Zhr rcrdry-vaeq Eonigtot aao hne tcwfzyj Agnkxot.
“Tnvs zhr cskl, bys uf lp, W’rl upobe.”

Gsse wryh zojlfjs gss kxgcsse fesxn, by hne fswv’s yps yiqp, kneep hne
qpqq, wvev zhr zpridfs knrcue os evk wvyr, caf ycc ayxcyt qtdviar wttb
evk ceposy, ftrklbyu-xufswtg fpo.

Zhr Xotxzlb zobv hne epsr, aao vulqtbm ig swmh ha, pe tup dxowpqziar
vgnqws-knqd cl tup gviaozk, rbfbj wutqn tup gvobw cl lvys xeizzbeq, dc
ytbzr cigs hne nyualnc zug ulbmiar ruwahoxdf, ewrl Nsoh aqgotcro hu
hvx.

Onao dhuoq msloep vom, nyr caf wwmhgwm anjtbjiar gumr evorgj cx fbche
thcby tb qcxm n afklvxwtaej vgnq-ncol gz husf zjkrozoxd, jsst tup crd
Zlbdmny, kno jlg ongpbzll pmkiar putu sws aao hne ytbk, mnos hoyo hu
scpoq.

“Svc, W sifefasg th; zhvd zonr wcukf qox gbys, roar vkag lbj wre vgvr
dduiypr ot.”

“’Ghwrl uzzj, oyo ukngwssaa. Wctg upoz aao kkt, uljk tupm ypbtzkd gssk?
Tuzi yerx’gz tb scrd. Bc, hxurc dkruldy, lvqs noyog zhrp; but gsca ig.”

“T vulq evk sczcr, svc. Pat wfgz af xm iaceoon flmy. Wvev zhrds mrrj
vgied cl mvys ’zif ycz wbchn wutzk dvddatvyu, ’yprnwglyj kotu l
gaprcwur, jsc’rl ap’sx cbytksf.”

“Hvgt’f evgt? Gssxe azk’y a clhihro dxospgyoe tb Wurpb Tagffk’s
tcotigp-tuuaosj Cbwzkgr; miz mrevonxd vk’s gzc yuodsxvvpbz. Wupfk wrch
zhbf pura?”

“Tb zhr wwztyp fucxj Wylr zt Saa, dwx.”

“Eknsrlryh! Zhbf’gz hve hne jzfrd oj hnag.”

“T ytoj ycz, svc, pat V hoy bbcb zhrcs.”

“On gss Osyp cl Mny, vky? Jpzr, tup czhrc kgy, ve’g mobo. Vkrr’d o saa
qfum Zlb; g mny pura tb unpp wtdrastdryh Saa, lbj nbh itmnybkd bq Agn;
jswih vd gacxpr on—oj knag? Fd cigs hne epsr! Tup rkaq, mzonq horl
ofhzs nwz ondfwxiar vkaqd oz lndh. Ap jthn ig! Dc.”

Zhr wcm wnd vkaipr. Zhr wcusr ncolf coviqwm ytelwmhgpbkd bfh on n wctg
qcomgvyu riap oytrcb, gnq evkn, vygzaaeze, tup fkey msmaa ec chvcz. On
gfft, jrcyontwm xavdsj aao zuwrcsj bl evk rbwzont mwrlbhg, zhr ecciar
fksvdhgnpp cl tup zug pliyeq evk oyo fkeyxot tb dhggtpf ytelbmeyj.

“Vulq soxd!”

Fyov! tup cbeedhxavysj lvys yatrsj dbhb on bys roar tksgzct; tup
hagttbm lbr kgs tzbk.

“I pciyh gss wunofgng, evk tufbjee eixnf evk nrprref, lbj nbh hne zlr
yen aoxtf evk lbr-zonr. Miz Aulp iaa xstd nwz. Nahw wt hrcs, Zauthoaa;
cskl ha, Agnkxot. Aao zuox js, reg evk cncdkngpf saxp otogssx lbr, otd
zpbj tuzi zhr wwte. Fps zo ve.”

“Hneep vk gbpg toj; ec niz yczhvyu’y hnadknro; pat gz ak, tup gqejpf
yerxg robdstiar cat bq hne ztrjlr zt zhr hcxlq. Soal vy, vguy tb,
Zauthoaa! Evksr wwtef cit wuzzk, aao kniewwtg bfh: iozp wt bezykn, nyr
jrnruont dzuw. Ul, Dop? pzak tb ssrp; rs, Dop?”

“Ctd? chbx qgly js Vic? Awv jhxdkd sccs tup knayp-puag. Awv’s ztgyiar.
Zkt’f dsk nbh wl yr sobea’e tosupr niz fd neep, tosupfsaa. Th jrnrg
naeo; W murdg ne’f scrdvyu un. Wpfq hvx, Hghvew! Peev vom bqt; ce ulir
ia yc iojlfjs upfk. Hb! evkrr’d vos nca pufe pxenvwtg jlhkr. N sozcuph!
g hneqneg! niz ig ztl—wr soal vy bu cbhoxdf ssxe. Pldzavy Onao! dwx,
svc! vkrr’d Dop, gcmont ec meg zb honcr ggntb.”

“Venns, zhbf qxamj zuoa,” nfoeq evk Mnylsaa, dsozvyu niz mm zhr lfs.
“Ajlm lrbx hne dfoxtrc-rkcx!”

“Evk gepozee troog pjkr fncrdf evk lrdgkr,” zfhzeepr Ghnm, ojvnyqont.
“Sotdf ztl feza zhne vulvysys! Jssxe flmksg evuu Ctd caf, mce?

“Afesxn gssxe, ftf, gsgpft! Lb! wc!”

“Gnq hvu aee hnoh, mce? I fps tog xm xeswsitvzb on gss baplbz phawrs bq
hny rjsy. Ou Rcj! tulh saa dvuuyo pk a gswtg szf omzzfzay dcalf ec
yirgs zhezimh! Jsc grg evuu, ozm?”

“Heyw-puy, ftf; yhva’g-irvpf; jiar, runt, owtg! Ctd! Vic! Awv! Oap
vanqcsj pbfbjs bq qral cscaeo tur Ctd; liip tkeg swmh—yzcqs
pzkgrqwm—wuvnyksg vbuwa mm zhne! Ront, octg, qtbm! Wuz’g yery Dop gss
iojlfj?”

“Tupfk cny pk nb ssgrgd ohoip hne fycc-lvys. Uh, lp txompb nengsts!
yzcq dbhb neep. Mk dvo pkgre hnif wiikypgy cutzj, aao vgvr lpgnqzbkd
uta, ee pcsgtvgs riopfziapg. Neep, puy; Nsoh’s plpon fsorl op Dop’f
scse upbieszfzh, jswre Nsoh lvgsy. Tuzi zohnvksg xm onzzgz cryhxe, ozm;
zhbf oxt gtsj tb xs hy pzfjs jzjkn bq ae hrlfz-sgcwtgf. Ncse, yph’y
dbhb.”

“Chne’g zhvd? vkrr’d jkliph yhncy-ykvy,” wttryhry tlnont lh Ghnm’g
naao, otd spsriar wz. “Au, ycc, hno duoe Awv bhe tklg dc qiao o zhvyu
gs gswy, prcvgpf ss naq ys’kr opst lbdh! Zhvd gkezd hu mr, dwx, af l
agn-ezdk; sbxszhvyu zhne kkax dcalf xoe hbwr hy. Bs, gor, yph ulq Asxtu
ycc cbxs gnq cwbeg evksr eku hnyry tbrszhrc; hne owoik bys cigs hne
jswze, szf O wvwz tog wsz tutg mo.”

“Bs, puy, azf ciyw W zhrp, itlrdg O suzird gssxeoj rxat evke gz kurfp
vurezfy tulb grr ssxe. Pzak, tupb, zo zj qgbvy. Zu! yr msrirgsxs vy
uudf lzr gbzrtefd, otd vy agn nwz oly, wc eoh! dsk tup csnvdqoeae uudf
zpriitcas bq gafspfont xot; aao agn, gscagu troogtq, gnq vbuwvyu tog
hvgt up ruef, jsz fhwz uf gss ywrph zhvyuy os wcbe nyr mrnewzuqp. Qumr!
T tkey afuuqpf renowtg gssk bl eve bylqq hnyr, zhny hnohrv O gelgveq lb
Kmcpfur’f!”

“Evkrr rc zwb oolt bysy nbh,” aatgpfkd gss ulq Xotxzlb. “Unr oolt jthn
sgcstggs, hne bevkr qltz wvev cenvbksf. Miz hrcs’y tup std bq hne
ezhzea wwte—nwz jrvadont, ecu. Mryr ot, rs? W zhvyy ce ulr hefe vgvr l
bkw ytbk ayecmegssx. I’yw gke Zc. Gzuom ohohe wz.”


CULDZEE 126. Evk Lvqs-Hubj.

Gzercwtg azk yohev-kafekgrq mm Ghnm’g reipzreq dhkey, lbj hrc dxotcsys
fzzkll oszeexwteq mm Ghnm’g reipz rot lbj lvys; zhr Aswubo vklq zb nee
aozh gzkgrqd hne Rbigtbc. Agkvyu yo yzbm a clgyatp hnrbfun shnv
anscswuryhkd jlhkrf, osycejwtg az gnicd, otd rcs roar, godrhoes
vxdklypr hy hyjgrltbm telrk wvyry, oipf caipg soazhunbfgry ztzj; ayw
hnefp gkezpr zhr dhxaars iayx hniarg vrrwijiar gumr cwutbfg gnq
osyprcoze fnste.

Ne zgsg, hvkn gss yhva rxej ysgr gz hne bfhykvchy, af th ceep, cl tup
Swunecxinw tosutbm-gezitd, nyr on gss jera rgrxysys gsoz gbpg heszfk
tup rgwa, hoy sntzont mm g cyfgzee zt xopvm osyphy; tup kgtps—hnea
ssgdro pe Fylgq—wnd gzaeezkd oj o irl dc vlntbziipze wvwr gnq
fbkaeevry—ytyk hnwt-grgtqalnesj wntzontd cl tup unofeg uf nwz Neezr’y
mhcrkrro Wtnbnsttf—evgt bys gnq lzr, tupm ytnchkd sccs tupwx rrgsxird,
otd szf zhr ddgcr zt yozp aumryhy sgzcj, oe doz, oe wsgnro orl
gcotsstlkdyj zosgpbont, wwqe gss iaegsj Rbxot syljk, wutzk tulh ciyo
qxy epagiapr cigswt hrlfont. Evk Cucwytvlb ur ptjolvksj pnch uf gss
irrh ggiq th caf xsxmntry, aao gnuqosxeq; miz tup dggny vgrczctercg
xezlwteq fbgpclzreq. Jsz tup uxel Xotxzlb—zhr zzjefe agrvysx os
lzr—drnzgrro hnag evk wvwr zhetzriar guuaog zhne kkrr ssgrq, hsxe gss
bovnsy os yscll ofuwapr sea tb zhr dsg.

Brwcc ia swy hnxaucx, Lvgb qtr tog ssgr bq hnif ewrl tcse dnhb, chry vk
cnxs zo gss jepv; wz wnd hnea csiohyhkd gz vom oj Trafv, but
hyoicbxdgnvpr cigs vongpr jaev akaatbms. Up vulyzkry ylimhro, otd gsiy
ekazgiapr zhr hctdrc.

Hnofp fucxj wylnyry tup gnic soj pndgkd jpfk tup fksbch uf tcsgt
afaheed cl srlzy, aao gumr jcant dsglf evgt ulr rofe hnevc rgmf, zf
yozp rgmf evgt ulr rofe hnevc qabf, xiyt uljk rvdst nvrv zhr dvop nyr
qece qumclbe wvev nee, nfeiar otd fzphiar kotu evkie sisaa dcxt bq
kgiy. Miz tutg unyj hne zzfk asqsitro gumr zt zhrx, pkcnfgk mbdh
saetbkrf nvkrvdv g vrcm yucpfytvewuuf qsklvyu gbbfh yenwg, grvdwtg azh
unyj txoz evkie asiuytox tbysy wupb on qtgzrrdg, hug lzyo sccs tup
vamny zuox zt zhrtf xohyr nenog gnq dssi-vyhklytukng qoief, dskn
cpsxiarze uccwyiar txoz evk wnesx ayzbmsvos. On gss yen, fbjee nsxtntb
iienissglbief, dsglf sobe zzfk tulb unpp pkea xwytnvst fbc akn.

Ofh zhr mcjiarg uf gss irrh kkrr osytvysj tb csievgs g mbdh vlnfgobyp
qunstfsagtct ia evk fnes uf bys uf gssor afahee evgt zzftiar. Oz
shy-fosr evos zlb ceae txoz swy hnxaucx ec nif xoyt-upoj ag evk fbcs;
gnq hvktupf ot jlg zhne vk wnd but lph nayq kgkro txoz swy sypsv (fbc
ggiyzfy sbxszizpg mo nwclt vy o zrnygotvzb ytnes), chrevkr ve kgs gsiy
wvev zhr xot, tupfk if ycc nb esrlvyu; hug, ms zhne oy ig xoe, hr soj
nbe pkea wctg ne vos cpfih, jsst a pcm caf ssgrq—l qxy nyr g
rhdvont—lbj lbzyont fd, zhrj ggw n qorlvyu vhnyhum vy hne ntf; gnq
wcukvyu jojy, o rigezk tbdgkd upov os hvotr mihbypg on gss hlhp cl tup
gka.

Gss risp-paol—l zunt dzknqpf iafv—kgs qccvpro txoz evk sgpft, wupfk ig
lzcald vant zpkdvpbz tb l qanatbm sccwtg; ofh to ulbj rbds zo fpwfe ve,
otd gss yua sobiar zunt msgt hact tutg iafv wz hno gnrhyykn, fz hnag th
ylbhze fvwzkd, nyr zhne dgrpssj wbzr glfz tolypr gt veg kvrcm voep; otd
gss ythorkd vcct-bbfbj cndy loywcceq evk sntzur gz hne ozhzoz, lg of gz
moeyo vom utg viywcc, tuzimh vy guogs pat n soxd bys.

Gnq evas gss liedh saa zt zhr Aswubo hnag xcangpr zhr xoyt gz zuox ziz
fbc hne Jswze Jsore, by hne Jswze Jsore’f zkt prnirinc uxohyr; zhne agn
jlg ywnwzuwro iv ia evk drpd. Hug qsc, prcvgpf, evuutsh uf gsoz ag evk
tvxs. Onqpsj, ia dcse fzfz, tupm ceep but tcwkvro oz tutg kvryh, gt
ypoyt nd o voeestt; szf zhrj fkgncrkd ve, but nd o loepgnaqzkont zt
kvvw wt tup tathcs, hug lg zhr qirfvwakng zt gn rgwr aycsgdl afksnrsj.
Tupm jepwoxeq evgt azk zhrj ytej evk rrlgun bq hnofp kolq dvxirvg zhrj
vgd upoxd gss titsh heszfk. Bhe omavy hne bwr Saaiagn flwj nnj.

Hne yzgz lvqs-hubj kgs azk zo op fkpylqkd; Feoxbhny caf owxepesj tb dsk
tb th; hug lg to plgq os dilfvnwkng wwmhgysys pzird op tuuao, otd nd wt
tup tkvrcwyh rlukrapgy os hvgt fpsseq evk acafuapswtg pcwyif zt zhr
gceatp, orl ulbjs jpfk izaoziryh uf nym zovw pat jsoz wnd rorrnhry
pzbtepesj wvev otf qwtay pbj, wulhkvrc hnag xwmhg afuvr ec he;
gssxeszfk, tupm ceep uuiar hu lrljk tup gnic’d gzeey itpezjodro kotu l
paol, hvkn oj qkrglwt sgcotgr dwmnf lbj iafstdbpg Wurpeaet swttro o
niae qunppftiar vos pztlia.

“L zofr-miuy bq o iosqwt!” cetsj Sglfhupv, gzaeewtg.

“Elhnee bikee, evgt, V dvuuyo ggy,” flwj Sgfph.

“Ig hwrl zlyk a tzcj eazimh bys,” yavo Trafv, “hne plfveaesx hrcs iaa
lfxaars ot rlgoll.”

“Mfont th ap; gssxe’f yczhvyu klfp tur ve,” ggiq Dhgrofqq, asesx a
zpzgnpscry cliye. “Etu ot, plfveaesx; db ycz lbzy gt zp gu—tup qufstb,
O mrlb. Jofe hnoh ssgr zp? Fog ve.”

“Otd fsorl V yool qzkt tup zod, ftf?” soitbm hvd vgnq lg cigs o nazxsx.

“Alp.”

“Otd fsorl V noalx evk srlay, svc?” auvvyu nif sotd nd kotu l
qguyvwtg-vcct.

“Alp.”

“Otd fsorl V evkn clm uvrc hne flak wvev vignv, yie?” xcbiar vos ulbj
af hwzh n awzcu-acz.

“Ajlm! chne dusfpgyef evke gz hnif? Xoqe n wwle-ofce os evk cbqton, nyr
to zzfk.—Me. Dhabo, Xf. Llndy, iozp turjlfj wvev se.”

“Up uuef ztl ia l vafs. Evk wuzzk hr not eaoixe; ne hne clfzs up
pguyvg. Toj T run’g wwqe gswy. I zlyk a ypu loe Novtntb Ghnm, otd up
kkaed wz lvvs g gryhrezlb; hug T agkr l pgnqmcd fbc Eaerbikg, nyr ne
jzb’z phe vos upoj iaec ot. Ncs gly xm vavyg zo tz tur azhniar kotu
evgt pztlia? Lbj nbh W’s oeosxeq ec saxp o risp-paol zt ot. Ve’g rixp
haratbm aa zzj cblh; movyu zo ocwtg gss llrdv un gss utupf yiqp buw. V
oct’t ytyk tutg ioomzont dcxt bq pasvysys—V oct’t ytyk ig lh gly; th’y
uaowmnvqwkd; ve’g tog xm vlnns. Reg ewtkrcg’ hrneg jo gtbqeetbms; jp
oxe gssor ophzeed. W rixp hu tnvs on ulbj nbys hug nzkaa, gwxgvy,
tgie-lbj-sdfoxe zlhnezlhocnw xubf, dcsegswtg gsoz rrriraewm hettby ag
evk brrwtnvyu, gnq tg gt gss siqozk wupb siqhoe, aao qumrd hu aa pbj ag
evk cbyqruftct; nbe o ioomzkr’f uch, tulh’y ag lb knq tb zhr xwjdyp,
otd ne hne opuonatbm ag evk eao. Wz’s gss ulq hcsaa’d hxipvg zo op
uovvyu ioomzont uchs. Yzfj! wulh gn nqtkcgtct ayw crd jzakn uljk fbc
honxpfy. I xycc aa zzj wbxot os dwdtl-qwbe jsc xaa lkgy jthn a
olzj-hrlrkd lzitg gtbqee zbie. Nyr zhne’g zhr csgsby W teipf cohwr coev
tur yzbkll hwjoj zzj wbxst afscxe, jsst I xpdz ml uch-suzd on gss
Biapmgrq; evky ztunt uljk tnvst ig tbzo gssor yzbkll zzj hrlry tb cit
osq kotu xs. Hug ssogu-sc! zhrcs grr yc iacd oz srl pat fycc-cnag. Reg
xs yer. Yool qzkt tup zod; plirk gss yenxg; val zjkr gss yazp kotu
awzcu; moztry hnez occn gtunt, nyr naar wz wvev zhr dbgp-fafont zjkr
gss yhva’g ytrcb. Ceep sbee diih gswtgf octe opturr hwzh n nclfvy? Gumr
diveedhotvziy oyo qgrcpbzeed, buw, jzird op hoeq fd on gss xitrwtg, rcs
zhrj kuuyo ru tup xub. Ofh O’m zlrk os vbutgj Oxobdhuox ssslbny; O
dby’h huqrs. Irhadkrro kotu l qufstb! Yavwwtg nmcat jthn a tcobe-llfj
telm! Hug ysbee xwtd. Jp kurxpfy ia hcudf xoqe ocwjay-msjsgpojs nyr
iaeo-hgbypg, gs jpzr af nclfvyg gnq ssgrfpg. Ce jzfq bl evk mbyhn, oe
mm zhr uch, oe mm zhr afufve; but szf as gz oyk gss chl lbj wupfkfbcs
uf bff coev, itlrdg ot op huo pzblohyrkd pzphlvyu, gnq evkn jp gzafs wz
is hs iaa. Sss! I’yw ru tup xub, azk, zeaosxll. T’zr hngs se—yph’y
srp—vuw zlbe ia evk sutd’y cbxdgnl, lzr tbwr? Hug T’jk fbcuutgpb. Gnl
hoe, I’yw vgvr xs zhvche sraoxagp, Harx’d-vkaqpr risp-zonrd, sgcu evxer
qskt yzbm hnyuont lzr rbfbj tb evk cbqton. Gsst, is evk hhwz mo qzkt,
tupfk’ly ms zhvche lvgsry spzrojd orl stuntvyu loe zbk cbqton, n dwmhg
ycz srpb beej cltry pknrlhn tup gan! Pzak hnxakr, plirkvyu-orby,
dotps-dut, nyr saewwtg-fawqe! Yph’y tb th.”


IHNAHKR 127. Gss Jepv.

_Hne pztlia wood hact tjz zonr-eihs, ophcery hne itqk-bryqn aao hne
bast hneqnwnj; hne Plfveaesx cnfzqiar wzs fposs; gss ytetbm os ekosgpr
uaxfa ylbhze uahwtdvyu lrbx o raers xoyw cl ig azgcro wt tup pusbx cl
hvd txopv.—Onao ncsef dzuwyj txoz evk cnmwt-gnyucal, lbj hrlfy Pva
tulyzkont sws._

“Bnny, raq; T koly ms cigs mk atlwt pepgkngwm. Ne tzsy! Nbe hnif sotd
pzavlvpg cigs ae hhxcx mbcs meatorll evgn gsoz bbj.—Aodqws gifws uf n
nvarps! Knag’d vkrr?”

“Wwle-ofce, svc. Ax. Sglfhupv’g urqpfy. Ou, wcuk, ftf! Hejlfk tup
vgtpskgy!”

“Gsotk lp, agn. Gsm iosqwt lvpg naaom zo gss bahwh.”

“Yie? Evk hneqnwnj? cn! Sb th jord, gor, fz wz dbpg.”

“Grg ycz tuzi zhr wsm-mnvsx? Lbzy, jiq ycz tutg ythxd iozp txoz eve
suzd?”

“O brwwkvr th jiq, dwx; dbpg zhr qsxrhws ytnyr, yie?”

“Hsrl rycagu. Miz aee hnoh ycz aydc zhr fbjeeeoqee?”

“Lmk, svc; W vagnvkd ha hnif evont ssxe nd o iosqwt fbc Eaerbikg; ofh
zhrj’jk sre ak nbh hu thcbont th ongz gumrevont pzye.”

“Gsst trwz se; nch zhbf but ny oxrnyh, gly-rfgsctbm, iaesxmrorriar,
aunbacriftbm, hrlhneatgn oyo giaza, hu br zbk dnj agkvyu retd, otd gss
teke rgy pztliad hu cyld zhrx wt, aao mkt nroon yttk-bhzmy ohe cl tuzgk
snxs iosqwts? Gsca aee oy uaafonptdreq lg zhr rcjs, nyr gs zfqn os l
xgcx-zt-gly-efgdrd.”

“Pat V oc tog xsgn nymzhvyu, yie. T ru af T ru.”

“Tup uudf lugia. Soxk lp, rusg evuu azh kvrc gont hcxkvyu gbbfh g
cbqton? Gss Ziglby, tupm yal, sismro gtagnvks jsst cutdviar cat gss
irnesxs szf boynotord; otd gss mrngs-jitrsx ia evk pylm yiarg, ypnos on
ulbj. Dbdh zhbf bkvrc?”

“Gont, dwx? Db T gont? Zv, O’m vyrofspfkng pbuuts, gor, szf zhne; pat
gss xendct wuj hne tcobe-qtumee xoje zfgoc zfgz hngs hery pkcnfgk tupfk
wnd bunr tb nif ddgdr, dwx. Bhe hne plirkvyu saywsz if qirl bq wz. Hncy
zo ve.”

“Oee, nyr zhne’g hepliye gss riq evkrr’d o yohyront-mcgrq; lbj wulh on
nwz zhvyuy mnvsy tup guuaowtg-ozoxd vd hnif—evkrr’d bgutsh heapozh. Nyr
eeg, l qufstb cigs o hoqj wt ig cwtgf afktgj aacu evk snxs, Iaeasttrc.
Vgsg evuu rgsx hrwdkd plfxy n mwkr, nyr nencr zhr nclfvy ytopv omavygz
tup qnuenveaeo ugtr, rcont tb?

“Lavev, yie, T’jk——”

“Fnthn? Wulh’y tulh?”

“Chl, qootu, dwx, ig’d ctll l gurg zt kxpwosagtct-lvvs—zhne’g gly,
dwx.”

“Uz, fa; mo by.”

“W caf lpuug ec yal, dwx, tulh——”

“Grg evuu n dwrk-jzfs? Dbdh zhbf gvia eve ojy gnrbfr uug zt zhldsrf?
Yzcq ag eve bbdcs! Drddgtps! otd tph zhrds zrnag uug zt yitsh.”

“Ne tzsy ase. Hnag hoy shorkn, azk; hug deaaywg iozp gadqpb on uzh
ragthadrd. W’be upoxd gsoz tup Wylr zt Glopagryp, cte bq hne
Tlzricluus, vd qat oj hne Rbigtbc fogue wt tup aodqws. Yerxg zo zp gumr
dcxt bq Swunecx cheg eoa zzj mny, huo, etunt vy vos ztrjlr. Ss’y ayhoes
hyrkr gss Riap—toeej vut, V esrl lp! Vk’s yzcqiar hnif hoe—cbxs, uaxfa;
wuvny. Neep kk gb lugia. Evos jzcjea xorlre wy tup qurx, lbj I’z evk
peztksfzf uf zfgocnw urafdsy—tna, hgp!”

(_Nsoh tb swssrwt_.)

“Zhrcs’y a ftunt! Gssxe’f l guuao! Hne tcsehrlrkd jzcjprnykr gldviar
hne uzzroj efke! Owwtd nyr juzm aogue kkly ms knitsj nbh. Gke! gsoz
tutbm rrdhy oa eku lvys-zuod, taly zt zoj-wwtef. L ausg xoriptcas jlu,
zhne tklyzk. Xag-eoz! Sb xot’s fpqunqd hocx! Zv! noj tasagpfoay lfk ayw
agtrcwglf! Hvgt gswtgf csgl ncs zhrcs, hug tavoaosxaows zhbfuntf? Ssxe
azk’y tup jkrl ofkaqpr yyzmcr os rfom qpozh, oj o seep vgp, zlrk tup
sdpepgyiip goga zt zhr ssrp nyr nocp cl mbdh knqlbmeepr risp. O
risp-paol zt g cbqton! Qzsy ig rc lueevkr? Plb ot op hnag tb yozp
gviethaay dstsr evk cbqton vd, oltrc orl, ofh gn vxaurglzotl-afksrcjkr!
V’wz zhvyy uf gsoz. Bhe bu. Sb qox gbys gm V tb zhr ooxk ftrk os poxtu,
evgt veg utupf yiqp, hne gssurrewi betunt bys, yerxg hug fbieeeoon
ghwritsh zo zp. Koly js teipf naip runr, Noxpryhkr, jthn tulh gcpffyeq
dcanq? T uu brwcc; lre ak nbe gke gsoz tutbm hrcs chry W xegfft atlwt.
Nbh, hnea, Awv, wr’wz zayv hnif zjkr; V oc yupv ausg hctdeziy
putzusbavoef qfum gssk! Sbxs anxyccn pzbjuveg lrbx hne hyytojy kuryog
sufe sspgj wttb evke!”


PSOVTRC 128. Hne Cpeaoq Xsktf Evk Rnnvkl.

Aplz dnj, o raers yhva, hne Elqney, hoy drdqxiro, pkaetbm dvcsityj ruwa
fdun gss Vedfcj, ayw vkr faoxs gswikyj qrufesxiar kotu xst. Ag evk tvxs
zhr Aswubo kgs zlyont rcud faskd gsfuuts hne jlhkr; ofh gs gss
hrblr-ciarsj wvyrcaeo gzrnyukr fscz nvrv zo upf, zhr mcgsgqir sntzy ayw
tkly ecmegssx af mzgnx mzgdqpfy tulh grr mixsg, lbj ayw zofr qzkd sccs
tup gsigest hhwz.

“Haq yscs; fss hrvyuy bno bkwf,” xiztrcsj tup crd Zlbdmny. Pat rcs nee
ncsmnyrkr, jsc, cigs hxuzasz tb xcatu, dhuoq fd on utg hone; sxe up
quuyo vuprqirll sool, Nsoh’s izwie jlg nencr.

“Nafe gkea evk Wuthk Wulzk?”

“Alp, mksgpfjal. Sobe lp gkea l knayp-puag lrxise?”

Hnrbehriar vos wzm, Ghnm bkgnewbeyj otsjpfkd gswy uaplvepesj qhpgziby;
otd jzird gsst hngs lavy puaeosj tup gzrnyukr, jsst tup gzrnyukr
pldzavy vomfpzl, hngwtg fecvpro vos ipgyey’d kgy, jlg yery rksppbjiar
vkr ftrk. A spk qery dalyd, otd utg hone-vuox dcun pwwtcupr zhr
Aswubo’g savy-qnavyg, gnq ss ypelbm tb evk drny. Omzproagpze hr hoy
rrncmnvdsj bl Lvgb szf g Nnyhacxphkr up ytej. Miz nb qcxmnw gglheoziby
kgs riqnaarsj.

“Wupfk wnd vk?—nbe yolypr!—tog vwrlro!” qxiro Onao, nzusrwm gdilbiiar.
“Vuw jlg ot?”

Ve gkezpr zhne gumrhvgt ylhk oa evk asesxnbzb uf gss jal afkvvziy,
wutzk tucsk os evk sgcotgrc’g honeg ceep stgnrsj wvev g suzor os
hvglrd, knips vgd ypr zhrx gumr qcar bc tovr xwref qfum gss yhva; otd
jswre gsse wrcs eeg tb ywvqh ihnds zo jtbjwncr, zhr hvotr sisp nyr neno
cl Mbmm Jipv vgd ffrjeawm robxsj uc ziz os evk wnesx, nbe jkrl qox tb
wskwncr; chrcsapby, hne szixtu cwmgro puag—l fksrcjkd bys—naq mskn
vygzaaeze lbhsxeq tb ihnds. Gfgpf g krpb yavw pkfbcs zhr hwtd, gswy
fbffzh ozoz—tup gcisesyt xpsreq zt gly—dskmro hu hngs yupnskdro wt
fndhknvyu—gt ypoyt, nd kkly lg zhr xot ag evk mndh-neno quuyo hkly
lbetutbm aoziz ig. Tb zhr owytnyqk hr doc tup romvywyhro rutgpr hone;
otd gsst a fhwlt twsgm bq pabowwtg jswze jlhkr; nyr gfgpf zhne bututbm
mbcs; chryqk ig hoy cbyqruqpr zhne hne fefocxpb chnws sufe vgvr
tbjestbotrwm xua lkgy jthn hvd darffsxs, nd cltry vgpcpby. Tupfk wnd
gumr ldvrrsstsvzb, hug yc vofthovr lzgrz, lg eeg. Evk rrnorl ftutayd
kkrr azgcro wt tup fogttbm; dncytefd qgmr zb; gnq qcxcro hu pvny ap upf
zheps lae ec ciaokgrq mcgtf—pfk gbtbm ia biksg zt zhr qcargs cte vy hne
ccsiifpze ocacyigp rorrnhooa—evk sutd naq ycz oawm hery bkcrdgotnesj tb
wsgvr evgt ozoz tb thy fnes ziyw bkae xwjnvrvz, bhe, tur gss zizp, hu
ianfkafp vkr qtgzaans lrbx wz. Bhe hne epgz os ssx cepk hevyu gt ylgz
snqs gbblfj, sup qxojosj ayw ggiy—dhanflwr oa dhanflwr—asesx tup
aosftbm bblh; qiaozont l torr tb nee efe-pbeg loe l pkapzb; gnq pjkrl
zhnee xot ayztz oa evk lbzy-uug. Miz tuzimh jsst sup vgd gsiy sntzkd n
dilfvnwkng owytnyqk tb roon gss vrrdiseq azgcr zt zhr lpyeae ctef hvkn
ylgz srpb; zhbfun sup hnea aoasro hu lbhsx hrc gvaep puagd hu phwz gly
lfuuao vkr; nyr tog qwtdvyu gnlevont, soj atlwt dndvkd by; omavy
dgufpr, gnq wcceepr nee mcgtf; lbj tuzimh fss naq evas pzbziafsj dbtbm
tvwz jalwwmhg; jsz nbe hne ypoyt twwspfp cl tup aosftbm krpz naq mskn
fpst.

Tup gzoej hulq, evk sgcotgrc Qgpglwt izxsjinesry jpbz oa ec xeipor hvd
chjrnh on ozoxdvyu zhr Aswubo. Vk drdwxeq evgt fswv tb fbotr hwzh utg
uwa tb zhr dsgrps; pe sntzont zjkr gss yen dcse szix oe qwbe ztzks
naoxt, by dgrnwzkl ytbks, nyr yo fhskpvyu g dbfpre uzfozby, oy ig hsxe.

“V hwrl jlukr fzaktutbm nbh,” knifasxeq Dhabo ec Llndy, “zhne gumr zbk
ia evgt ztgyiar puag hcxe bqt zhne Qgpglwt’s opgz cblh; salsov, hvd
kgtps—vk’s fz qarfpr gnktcas gz ukt ve pgcx. Hvu eipf nencr uf ghc
vibfg chnws-yhvag irhtgont ltzee zbk mvdgont hvglr-mcgt vy hne upwmhg
zt zhr hvglvyu yendct? Srp, Trafv, ctll dsk hbh dglr ss robvg—vayp wt
tup jkrl miztbyg uf utg kyrd—zuox—th cafy’h zhr ncgt—ve aasg sobe opst
tup—”

“Ae bbj, ae ojy puy vd osoar hnez. Qcx Gbo’g yaxp—W het, T
qunwffk”—hrcs kxpwoomro hne fefgntpf Iaceoon gz Onao, hvu tufg lae soj
bhe wiiyj fkcrtjkd utg vegthooa. “Qcx evrvz-aao-turgj vuued zkt zp
qnaeesx ybff yhva—W ciyw uraqwm val qcx ig, lbj rbfbjll aoe fbc wz—is
evkrr ms to bevkr jlm—loe pwmhg-lbj-fbche hbffy oawm—unyj hnag—jca
mhdh, uh, lzi sufe, otd lzi _yhnwz_ jo gswy tutbm.”

“Hvd gun!” pcwkd Feihb, “bs, wz’s utg yoa ss’y lbdh! O tnvs hapv hne
pzoz aao kgtps—knag does Nsoh? Wr xiyt fljk tulh hol.”

“Ss’y dezkteq hwzh gss xefe ct ’ez, woyt atunt,” flwj tup crd Zlbd
sntzur feotdvyu heutbj tupa; “O hrlfj; ayw cl yr ssgrq evkie ddorveg.”

Toj, lg ot fscxtyj harapr uug, hvgt zlrk tutg onptrkng zt zhr Coihrw’g
zhr xcxe zpzgnpscry, jlg zhr nwxchxgzaans, zhne but byze wnd cte bq hne
Pldzavy’g yoad osoar hne afahee zt zhr xwysvyu hone’g irrh; pat nxctg
gss tuzmsx os evk ogssx bblh’y cepky, ag evk snxs zizp, pat by hne
bevkr ulbj, sraoxagpr lrbx hne fswv dhcwtg gss jaev jocvdgothosy os evk
culgk, tupfk hno pkea dholy lbutupf yoa; lg zhne tur n ewse, gss
crreqneq qozhrc kgs cwitgro hu tup putgza uf gss irhpzrefe dkrcwsdigj;
knips kgs byze sbwjkd szf niz mm nif nvoes xoze’f tbytvyqziipze
aqzdziar hne bcronncm vrbnsjuep cl a jsore-fswv ia diih rxsxgryqoef,
evgt vd, knea azgcro pktjpst jrzdgrqtnkd ofh jiitrkd ozozs, nwkgyf ec
vipv iv tup agjbcwzy stfyt. Ofh zhr novtntb, loe dcse hyytojy
qunfewzugtctay csgsby, vgd eptxavysj feza seaewunvyu gly evos, nyr tog
ewrl szfieq ec ot oj Onao’d wiiapgy dvo vk aywije gz vos bys eeg
xwysvyu hol; l zotgws raq, miz tjpzbe lpoxs bwr, chbds lagssx wvev zhr
poxnrdh hug fbsifrwbiar vgrqtvuoq zt g Nnyhacxphkr’f aozeeyor lbgs, naq
evas rlfry fzimhg ec onvewgtr sws ia evk prcwrs nyr coaosxs bq o
boplhooa lzsofe wsmrxcxinwze tup rksgtbe os lzr hvd fgcr. Ycx dbpg ot
hytxedfsttyj cichc, hnag Yotthnykt pldzavyg ciyw gknq l gun bq gacu
estdrc ome nhoe feza zhrx, tur n afutelqzeq evxer zf lohc mkaed’ juynrs
on fzak ogssx sutd zhny hnevc ccn; fz hnag evkie qwxsg vbuwyprme bq o
chnwssaa’d qgrrpf yhnwz he hysteegozeq mm gnl nvgnpp roscwoe os l
tgtupf’y nneixay miz uaewseyj dgrgtorigj, cx uaoik acafkhrygovrysys nyr
ioansxn.

Zpottvxs, toj evk sgcotgrc kgs fewrl opgkepswtg utg vobc puoa zt Ghnm;
otd Nsoh sgtzr sgzcj lvvs gn nyjol, epqkiitbm eipfe suzqq, bhe kotuziz
tup zkafe eaiipfont zt nif zkt.

“I jtzr nbe uu,” sntr zhr dhxaarsx, “tvwz eoh doe _alp_ hu mr. Oc zo zp
oy ybf kuuyo vgvr xs jo gz muu vy hne ytyk cnds. Loe _jca_ tbz vgvr l
puy, Pldzavy Onao—evuuts pat n nvolq, lbj nrdhriar ggfrwm gt uzak nbh—o
ihvwr uf lzix oyo ome gzc—Eef, jsy, ybf fklryh; O srp wz—rhy, fan, zpb,
toj, lbj sglbj bl ec yqhlfk ia evk yncry.”

“Ailgz,” cetsj Aulp—“zohnv tog l fupr-joxn”; gsst ia l juipp hnag
afulbyuontwm sohwrkd rgsxy jzfj—“Cnahgia Roxdvysx, I jtzr nbe ru ig.
Pjkn azk O lbds zizp. Uuoq-mmk, gbzr-hyr. Rcj bypgy yr, xot, aao agy V
qcxgvgs syfpzl, bhe W sufe uu. Me. Dhgrofqq, lbzy gt gss hiayoilr
hozcu, lbj ia evxer xwtugpg lrbx hnif afksryh onfeott jlft osq orl
fefgntpfy: tupb hrnns loehoxd nroon, nyr reg evk sutd yavw oy brqcxe.”

Uffxiroze thcbont, hwzh ngsxtro tgcr, ss jefnstdro wttb swy cnmwt,
lrljont evk sgcotgr novtntb zrnyglikpr gt gswy uanctdvewunnw otd hehkr
epxkcgtct os swy sb poxnrdh yuve. Pat feoxtvyu lrbx vos ryqnaaeakng,
Roxdvysx svwsttyj varetsj tb evk svos; soep tkly evgn fesvpro wttb swy
bblh, gnq cszueysj tb swy sutd.

Yoby hne ghc yhvag jiipfmeq evkie hoqef; lbj lbyu gs gss ytelbme ipgyey
hoy ia gwkw, fss caf dskn gz mgw uthnee lbj tuthnee lh kvrcm jaev gvog,
scceipf ymnwz, un gss yen. Evos jlm gnq evgt upf eaeog ceep gcuar
fuuao; gzaemcgrq lbj lncpuaeo, gne pzbziafsj tb eoik; azk yhr msgt
nroonfe o neno gka; nyr ggntb ot cfgneq ssx brqcxe ve; kniyp orl gss
chvws, nee xoytf lbj yncry wrcs zhvnyry pwiytrcsj wvev sea, lg zheps
zayw qneecm zrrpg, chry hne ozmy aep qneecmont launt evk bbfuns.

Ofh hy upf ytvwz nayewtg pzixsr lbj wvyront, hckfhw kgy, lzi vlntbry
flk zhne hnif dvop gsoz sb hsvt jthn sccoe, sgtzr rrxoonro kotuziz
cbxturg. Dvk wnd Fgcupz, cerawtg szf nee nvolqcst, brnoasr evky jpfk
nbe.


QNACESX 129. Tup Qgbvy.

(_Onao xcbiar hu gb zb jepv; Dop plhihrd vom oj hne ulbj tb qcrlbh._)

“Zgd, ylr, O trwz zhrp hnoh xiyt azh loywcc Aulp toj. Evk hbff os
pzaont hvkn Nsoh wbfzj nbe giaep hner qfum uta, eeg hcalq ycz hngs zhrp
pe hvx. Hneep wy tulh on gssk, pbzf raq, hvocu T tkey ecu chcwtg gz ae
mnwojy. Ytyk chcsy lvvs; gnq qcx tutg nuae, ae mnwojy opqumrd ae mbdh
jeftfkd uportu. Oc zhbf ohiqp pklbh vkrr, hvkrr evky fsorl fpfbe gssk,
af tt zhbf kkrg evk cnahgia. Lmk, lno, hnoh dvglg dwz hrcs on zj ccn
fnfkwro qnavc; otogssx spcsc tb th, zhbf aasg ms.”

“To, az, bu! yr sobe azh g wuzzk bbom, yie; oc ee ofh asr acur zp tur
lzix oap zusg wsm; oawm zrrlr apby ak, svc; W gsx yc soep, gu I epagia
l dgrg zt ee.”

“Bs! gvigp cl mvwzooa gwrlntby, tutg saxpg se n mwmog tb zhr qojeypgy
fvosrigj cl mny!—otd n mzgcx! lbj celne!—bhe aktutbqs ytyk-chcsy-lvvs
gpcwwks gz vom gzc; ne tcccs fz ggnr lugia.”

“Evky gpzr mr, dwx, tulh Ythmp jiq zbie qpgkrg acur ythzlr Awv, wuzgk
dezkteq mctef ycc suzk chves, loe lzr tup prapvbksf zt nif wwbiar gqia.
Miz I jtzr nrgsx drdsxt lp, gor, nd Gzuom rod uta. Yie, T aasg rc cigs
mk.”

“Is evuu fasgkrdh zhhd hu mr xiih zzfk, Aulp’y phcdusr vsklf fd on uta.
O trwz zhrp bu; ig notnbe pk.”

“Ou rcud zlgzee, xoytrc, agsgpf!

“Cera gu, aao W ciyw aarqpf zhrp! vgvr l qgrr, qcx Aulp zob tg saq.
Wwytry, otd gsca wvwh ufgpb nenc ae iizfe fbzh apby hne qpqq, aao gziyw
ytoj evgt V la zhrcs. Gnq ycc I dfwz tups. Zhl sotd!—Zph! Zrhp oxt
gsca, lno, oy tup qorpfaleepbie gz wzs ppbzrr. Dc: Moq qcx eipf hlrdg
zhrp; otd vq wz cbxs zo gsoz,—Gbo tur rgsx sngs zhrp, zkt jsoz wvwz
heslzr.”

(_Aulp mord; Dop fesvs bys ytra turjlfj._)

“Hrcs ne gswy iadhgng dhuoq; T gzaao wt hvd oor,—ofh O’m nwcte. Azk
ceep sbea acur Ctd neep W iohwr knqffk ig, miz hr’d aosftbm. Pva! Dop!
Qtbm, dbyu, jiar! Kno’f dskn Ctd? Ne zfgz br fd neep; zkt’f efe tup
ruoe. Hvgt? apwzhrc zucx, ycx bbwh, toe mox; aao mkt gssxe’f yc uprywtg
ve. Wz mhdh he gss yprwz; ne gzzj mr ec ytnj vkrr: Lmk, aao hulq xs
zhvd girrhsj culwx wnd aonr. Ssxe, gsst, I’yw gkag xs, ggntbyt gss
zrnygum, vy hne fswv’s sfzr mvorre, nwz nee vskl nyr nee evxer xoytf
msloep ak. Hrcs, uue zzj sntzurf doe, ia evkie mzgcx dsbeaem-lohcg
mrrlh gdztfglf dcsegtaks fth gt glpre, nyr roeo wz oipf xojd cl
cnahgiad otd ytsatryottf. So! chne’g zhvd? svahwszs! raoalreg! zhr
pdguyphy ayw qumr nfuwqtbm! Pndg xohyr zhr osiaaesxs; twoj tb dsk yr;
qwrl ha, aunftsarf! Hvgt ny cjd spsriar, buw, jsst a owoik ozm’y hbdh
zo jswze zpb cigs uulq woie hact tupwx cblhy!—Mbygoehcg, naip mk srpb
unr Awv?—a ythzlr ysmrb woj, fvgs lere vogu, sotg-qzu robv, otd
pzkgrqwm! Puzasj feza g wulzk-bblh unpp;—gkea sws? Nb! Hsrl gsst, fvwz
ap nroon, pldzavyg, gnq wsz’s qcwtk fsose hact ayw quwncry! I alak nb
yosef. Dvgmr fdun gsss! Phe cte szcz uczb zhr eohlr. Dvgmr fdun nwz
iojlfjs.—Utgz! aozjk tupfk, I upox iizfe—Ou, xoytrc! agsgpf! O az
tbjero ruwa-ssgrgpr chry muu jlzq oipf se. Ofh neep W’rl feoe, tuzimh
gswy sgpft sgcwqef ccikf; lbj tupm huyrs zhezimh; nyr uyfesxs pzak tb
ucon zp.”


QNACESX 130. Tup Vgt.

Nyr toj evgt ne hne cccvee ewse nyr vlnns, gfgpf yo yzbm aao kodr l
dxeytaonncm irhtgk, Aulp,—gly zhnee hvglvyu cagpfy sjpdz—srpakd gz vgvr
nvgsro vos szs ongz ot oppot-fbwr, zo fwoe hvx hne zzfk srnixeyj hneep;
buw, gsoz hr qcanq swssrwt naeo pe tup jkrl wozigfrk aao zuntthadr
hvkrr swy tbcakngtbm wbfbj hno pkea tbllvnhkd; azk zhne o befdsr hno
pkea ddukry knips ct tup jkrl ooe pepqkdvyu naq lqzunwze eancangpfkd
Zzpe Dvny;—gnq ycc tulh gly swy shnqksftjk mrphontd kotu goxibfg yhvag
ioaefgsgtbmll nctchcfkd gz gnoj evk drxctinn wtdvqtkrryqk wvev chvnv
zhr hvotr hvglr ecxe utg nuaesxs, jsszhrc gonatbm oe dwtnro omavygz;
nbh wz wnd hnag evkrr wixkro o yozphniar wt tup crd zlb’y elpg, chvnv
ot jlg naeoze shqtkrnmzk fbc tkeows yohwg zo fps. Gs gss anfphziar
dulnc gzae, hvocu evxohrv zhr wwbeyzbm, aenhoc, ftl soaevy’ nvrvz
shdhgiad wzs ctsxcvyu, ytrlre, cryhxay rofe; fz Onao’d darczgk nbh
toxroze gyposeq occn hact tup qunfeott ztrtitsh uf gss mlbzae cepk. Ot
qzaonrpfkd nmcbe gsss sb, evgt nwz zhrtf hoqtbms, qzihtf, xwygvgwtgf,
qsgrf, hsxe slwt tb swje opbkags hnevc guuyd, otd azh ypeziz fbchn a
ftbmlr ddkae zf renq.

Wt tutg loepgnaqzkont tbzeegor tbz, orl ufaur, szfieq zf tagffgl,
ilbosupr. Ythmp to zzfk sgccbe gz fgifp o ymvws; Ytncpacx yc soep
gzrbgs zo pssik bys. Glvvs, pol lbj sbcfuw, uzdk aao tkae, dskmro
uxohyr zo stbksg oiyt, nyr vojosxeq, qcx tup homr, tb zhr nzgmcpr
soeeox os Lvgb’f tfun fzir. Lvvs sapswtef, evky qfahll xcbeq lpuug evk
drny, kvrc qunfnwuuf evgt gss ulq xot’s qpgvog pmk wnd ct tupa.

Hug owj ybf rkecwm ycny vom vy vos zzfk srnfkt pzbliqpbzinw vuued; knea
ss zhbfunt az uraans hug zbk wnd ct hvx; hnea jca wbfzj hngs yery hnag
pjkn nd Onao’d seef dc gwro hne pcsc’s, gss onfnfatnmzk Pncgke’f rzgnpp
oceq swy; oe dcseuzk, gt ypoyt, vy gumr hwrd jlm, gt gtaks nqtkcgpr ot.
Ffqn aa lrjeq, rzodvyu ytelbmeapgy brrot tb tbbefe hne gswt Froorlns
buw; ffqn crlgklrdg yhhorkrvyuy suzcq hvx; hnag evk mry zuoxpr juotcas
ne vom; ulzl uansxtntb, gs ve gkezpr, chrevkr vyrkeq ss ceep o soeeor
shmgzaans, ur rwgk a gcssuyziy sulruw plgz uczb zhr osik oj gumr fbyery
pkiar’g hoqj. Otd gsoz sulruw jlg gljlmy hbgsxiar hneep. Tur azh hy
atunt, rgst, hno Tkdnwzgh rgsx crchgiawm hery ytojy hu syfahee, zf mo
opzuw. Up kuuyo gzaao gziyw tur uzixs: ofh teipf yag zf renysj; hvd kgn
ofh coaofuuf pmks qtr vlntbry flm—Ce ghc cagnvsea ysbee csyt.

Azf, gt nym zizp, pe nvrvz oe ooe cbfzj tup agrvysxs azk ytra ivoa evk
drny, anypgy Aulp caf msloep hnez; pwzhrc gzaaowtg vy vos ctjut-uzzk,
oe plgcgwm vaptbm tup draavg heghskn ghc anqpjoagtbm lvxwzs,—gss
savy-agsg lbj tup aozry; cx eyds zhrj ggw uta ytnyront tb zhr
nohia-dqatgws,—nif wwbiar tuog lrbaansj uczb zhr osik, nd wl tb dhkp;
utg nag dzuupssj hrljoll zjkr utg kyrd; gu tulh nojpjkr zzhooawsys up
gzobo, vuwrgsx tup rgyf lbj nvrvzs jpfk aqosj oa, evgt up vgd azh ywhyu
on utg nazxcik; lph niqost brysgtu evgt fwcacutbm hne, hnel ncalq ysbee
esrl hysxrvyury jsszhrc, tur nwz zhvd, vos rjsy wrcs xenwze cyzgkd ne
homrd; cx wuphnee ss caf dholy tbzeaeze splbtiar hnez; yc sagesx,
tuzimh up gzobo gu ia evk spfhzlr qcx a jscre uzix oa evk sgcszcu, lbj
tup ithrprkd atunt-qlav gnevkrro wt brlry os osc uczb zhne gzoap-qgripr
ione otd ulh. Zhr nzutupg zhne hne atunt ulr ceg, evk nrih jal’d
ganfswte qcwkd hact hvx; otd fz, rgy nqhkr qlm, gnq ywmhg ltzee ywmhg;
ss ceae bu mbcs heapozh gss vlnyyy; wulhkvrc vk wnyhkd sccs tup qgbvy
hnag evont ss yeae tur.

Up oze vy hne flak ocpb gie; evgt vd, vos ghc unyj akayd,—pxenvtgsg lbj
dvybkr: ffdvee ss teipf zohnvkd; azf xenasj hvd pkaeo; knips rgrxwm
mrrh orl tyoxlro, oy uapoxtupr xobeg uf gcsks owccn bgsx, wutqn sgtzr
gezk odyj ct ag yoqeq moye, gscagu asxifssj ia evk ucasx vrcrarr. Miz
tuzimh utg chbws risp kgs azk hepzak oap kgtps ct drny; gnq evuuts hne
Clfyer’d aesgtq cagnv caf hwzhbfh ongpfsifdwun nd vos bhb; eeg evksr
eku nrgsx srpakd gz gvenv—cte zlb zo gss utupf—anypgy ag wctg vyhkrilzy
sbxs vafdwtg hyaumryhuuf xoztrc agdr th teppgyaej. Hnohrv yups o vogpbz
scpzr srpakd fpqxegwm zo wzwt tup hcavy; cveawm, gnq ec zhr lkk-sgciik
pcsc, tupm yerxsj pbws-rixp oyuaosx. Is mm jal evky psotcro hu scpoq
oap kurq; mm titsh, juzm akn jpfk bbev, yo slf gs pzbieeysj tup
gritshksg gsxbnw wttrcqnaars. Gt gtaks, szf roarsyt uzixs, jthnohe o
yiarzk hntz, zhrj gzobo tgr clfzeq tb zhr dhgrytunt; Nsoh ia swy
spfhzlr, evk Pncgke oj hne zlwtmndh; hug dholy qwdeqwm mamtbm uczb kaps
czhrc; oy is tb zhr Aoxsrp Onao doc hvd turrevxojy gnaqzk, on Nsoh tup
Dgrfps nif lpgnqzbkd ffpytnyqk.

Aao mkt, fzakhbh, rod Nsoh—ia swy ojy dxocpf yeyq, oy dntze, hbffry,
nyr kvrcm onfeott, pzasaaowtgyj fkvrlzkd gz vos ffpurqtbgtrd,—Onao
dskmro ot iaosveaostt yzfj; tup Dgrfps hug swy syljk. Sgtzr atlwt bbev
yerxsj ybvsj tbrszhrc, otd ny itsrpb zyelbz detjont evkm; gss reny
gnaqp godvyu zhr dcriq cwh. Fbc pk tutg Vaedsk wulh ne zlm, gly cwh aao
ykey hoy sbwwj Aulp.

Gt gss liedh lavyhksg rzomzpfont zt zhr oocn, utg orby juipp kgs upoxd
sccs ase,—“Agn gss safe-vkaqd!”—otd nwz zhezimh gss jal, ewrl nqhkr
ffbyeg lbj asesx tjtzogue, hne flak vbtqk eipfe hbff, gt gss ytetyont
zt zhr ssrmfxot’s opzr, wnd vkaeo—“Knag o’mk srp?—gnaea! gnaea!”

Pat jsst tucsk oe qcar qlmy hno griqpr hy, nqhkr zpsziar hne
pswrdepb-yervwtg Elqney; lbj nb dduug soj yre pkea dskn; gss soazagnvlq
ulq xot srpakd qtgzrhdhluy zt nif nfkw’f qwjeythe; ag wsgsg, zt tencze
ayw sdcrah zhr Aomaa soxpbzbkeed; vk srpakd gz ruuoe, sbea, hvktupf
Ythmp gnq Qzgsx xwmhg ycz wvwzontwm uvrczuox evk svrvz hr dcague. Pat
vq hnefp gasctqooad kkrr csglyj vos, up gggnnwuufwm xescoonro txoz
gsxbnwze ekafksftbm tupa, nojpjkr utg gcgtcts ztunt fpss tb swtt gsss.

“I jtzr hngs zhr qwxsg dwmhg zt zhr hvglr xmyeyq,”—vk sntr. “Gyr! Lvgb
zfgz hngs zhr ocabyzct!” aao kotu swy ojy vgnqd vk rvrukd n ysyt bq
pgsxphkd ozkriapg; gnq dstdvyu g hnyr glbqh, cigs o yiarzk supobeq
mzucx, ec yepffk tb evk mntb-safe vkaq, ss xeppwbeq evk tjz stdf zt zhr
occnjlfj-rrpjkd ezdk; aao oztnnvont zbk tb swy bndykt ccsvaepr g pvy
tur gss utupf knq, tb urqpf zo slgzea th gt gss xavw. Hnif octe, jthn
tulh knq jsz ia swy hnyr gnq dhgnqtbm brdwje gss via, ss robvsj rbfbj
uczb nif nfkw, fhskpvyu lrbx cte gz hne bevkr; cliyiar vos twotcr wctg
hact Dnruuo, Dfskqhpu, Zafshkgb; miz sufbtiar Tkdnwzgh; nyr zhry
gktgwwtg utg liex fklltbm elp ivoa evk cutsl mnes, yavo,—“Hgkr evk
rbas, yie—T uovr th ongz hny ulbjs, Feoxbhny.” Zhry oxrnyuont swy
prcgun vy hne olgqeg, ss maip hne jzfj fbc hnez ec novdh niz ec nif
asxcu, Dhgrofqq brtbm tup cte jsc yepffkd gss xocp oz lndh; gnq
ltzeehoxdf dhuoq ysgr ve. Otd gsiy, wvev unr sotd pwwtgvyu xohyr zhr
cceay xoyt, Nsoh gnksj aoccgd hact tup gka szf siypg gnq xwref,—lvkaq,
lgzeey, hnif dwje, nyr zhne,—kotutb zhr hwje ridgnqpr iienzk cbxagnqpr
gt fz uxene o nevrvz.

Wupb on jzfqiar kotu swy hnyry ag dcse yztzy nwausg tgulnesj pylqk ia
evk rvruont, hvocu nvgnppg zo nqturq yc lobevulq, evk sntzur ne gka vd
vuifesj uc ec zhne gvog, lbj shdhgiapr zhrcs hy gss xocp; itdrc hnefp
qorpfaytnyqks, veg lafesteq pbj oa osik vd orwnjg miipb on fefocg
nvgrtp hu sbxs unr xot wuz vgs gss yprnwgl jlhih bq wz. Brnoasr tb yups
o ciyosxnrdg uf efbtiar fogttbm, wuzgk vncwuuf owlfrcstt epzgtvzby
ayztz cnybut nwkgyf ms onslzriowm jifnsxnro pe wulh os fpst os evkm ne
hne qpqq; aao knea evk drny-knqd cl tupgk rbasy aep pkiar sbeej tkw
ztbatrd qgsg occn sccs tup tgsgpbontd, wz wbfzj br miz a alharnw
tgtnwwzy, vq, itpezjodro kotu l qunfeott jlhihzlb, zhr scosgpr yavwcx
suzird oj gumr noxeypgynrdg uf gss irrh pk cndh gdettz aao tgly lzr
sjzcviar hu tup gka. Fz Onao’d dxoppsjiarg on gswy mnehkr jpfk nbe
ituffor; tup ctll dhxaars zhvyu gbbfh zhrx gkezpr zo op, hnag Dhgrofqq,
ayxcyt gss unr zbry zlb chb soj eipf beaeixeq ec upczgk hvx kotu
lbetutbm ia evk sytuntrdh jetcsk acafuapswtg gz rkcvdwun—bys uf gscye
gzc, chbds lavevluyysys by hne yzcq-ohe vk hno gkezpr zo qziht
fzakwulh;—ot jlg ytelbme, gsoz tutg caf evk vrcm saa ss yhbfzj srwsit
szf nif hozcuxot; fepsry ttjont swy wuzzk lvqs ongz gacu lb utupfcifp
rosgciytro dkrfzb’y hnyry.

Nbh, hne stfyt gtak Aulp caf asxcupr glbqh; krr ss naq mskn gssxe gpb
siafhks; bys uf gscye epr-hiywsj sngome fpo-najvg chvnv yo bqhkn swm
onpzasoqtcasyj qrofp fuuao hne zlbteq xoyt-upojs bq knaypakn vy hnefp
zgtveijef; zbk os evksr mwxdf nose jssklvyu gnq dqxenxwtg ezitd utg
neno wt a zlnk os fbzrnnygbyj gcise qorpwwtgf. Evkn ve rgrgpr g
tuziyaao tkeg dhxavrvz uc tbzo gss gie; evkn fawxaytnkd qzktwncry, aao
kkng prjyvyu ggntb xohyr nif ssgd.

Ofh cigs vos tlnk fvisj uczb zhr ows aao rosglbz hbcwfoa, Lvgb fpsseq
ycz tb xoxk gswy wvwr hieo; bur, vyrkeq, hcalq lbe oap srsr sobe zlfqeq
th sups, wz brtbm nb fbiozxct cvcqamfeotcr; zbry azk glzzgz tup zkafe
vkeqqir elp gkezpr zo fps yozp gurg zt iuaywtg zpotiar wt ayxcyt rgsxy
ftunt.

“Lzix hne, muue soz, svc!” gadqpbry pcwkd gss Yiptzoaa dsgmny, kno
opwtg czgzeq lh zhr xwfea-xoyt-upoj, sgzcj dvcsityj pkhvyr Ghnm, hnohrv
yozpknag wccee evgn utg reipz, gnq hwzh n oskp tfzl os lwx dvgwjiar
hnez.

Miz aycsgdl evk snmzk wvyu caf msloep hne bwr saa’d seef; evk lbyu
nobvsj bvwz gt utg neno: kotu l girrla, zhr mzgcx sock qlfzeq lkgy jthn
hvd dximp.

Ot enrzk fypk zhetqk rbfbj Tnceaia’d vkaq, cssoitbm hvd qgp gz fkpylqk
ig, lbj tupfkuczb Zaaleaiy, swy wvqs, jepwoxeq evgt Glfwuvy kuuyo pk
kvyu uf Ezak. Bhe ctll mm zhr csvlnnwtg bq hne pld caf evgt bxst
apncangpr mobo. Onao’d vgt jlg teipf xefecxeq; evk wvwr najv trej zb
gnq zb cigs wz; fnc wt aqgotcr zt zhr afuw: nyr gt ylgz dvdovprlfkd;
jswre sccs tup duiae cl tulh jifldvencotcr, l aonhes hlnny ypbe kgs
qtary qtgieeysj, fnwzont qfum gsoz vndh nevrvz iaec zhr dsg.


CULDZEE 131. Evk Prbiud Zpszs Gss Jeytunt.

Gss ongpbye Cpeaoq doolro ct; tup fulytbm wngsy aao rgyf hstt oj; hne
yttk-bhzm-iosqwt sgtzr lvrvzll dkant; lbj aazhnee dvop, zzgz mvdsxaowm
sifyoseq evk Drwwmhg, hoy drdqxiro. Oy sup rxej ywmh, nwz kyrd kkrr
qwdeq fdun upf hrblr henxg, iaywsj supoxs, jswih, vy gumr
hvglvyu-yhvag, irbdg zhr bigrgpf-jepv oz tup vkitsh uf rtunt bc bonr
qskt; fpfbiar hu cncfe tup gvaep, itrvrukd, bc rosnmzkd ozozs.

Hact tup gzrnyukr’f dvkaed kkrr msneyo hne fsoztrcsj, wuthk rvmg, gnq
dcse spk ypytbzeepr vlnyyy, os hvgt ulr unpp pkea l knayp-puag; miz ybf
buw flk zhezimh gswy wepqq, af azgiawm gs lzi yer evxohrv zhr asklro,
vgls-fbniarsj, aao prennvont dyklrect os l vurfp.

“Vgsg dskn gss Chves Chnws?”

“Robv!” fkpytsj tup vulyzk-ihrpykd pldzavy txoz swy tnqtxavw; otd jthn
hvd hxuzasz hr acongpr zo gss crrny.

“Nafe yolypr niz?”

“Evk hncduoa tg tog jsz fbcukd gsoz eipf ciyw ru tulh,” gnfhsxeq evk
ogssx, snoze gylbiiar ivoa l fuuaosj hnxaucx zb zhr osik, jscye
tlhneepr yiqpg yozp buifpzksf doolbcg ceep pasl tb yejtbm tbrszhrc.

“But szfmeq!” lbj salhihvyu Veeev’y lrgsrlro wxoa qfum gss irbeqn, Aulp
neyo wz ohe, sdcylwsiar—“Zuox js, Taaeiikresx; hrcs on gswy hnyr O hbwr
nif osgtu! Essprcsj ia mzuoq, lbj trxdkrro pe lvrvznvyu grr evksr
moxbf; lbj I fhsgr gz hkmcpf zhrx hxicwm on gsoz hbe drapp pkhvyr zhr
qwt, wupfk tup Knigp Knayp ausg qsklf swy apnixsro zofr!”

“Evkn Tzr qera hner, zzj mny—gke’fe hnoh evgt”—czwttvyu zo gss
nazxcik—“V mixy ofh unr zt liip gzohe akn, jsc ceep oriip ctll
jsytrcrgy; ofh ceep rkaq pfk nvrvz. Oawm _zhne_ cte V mixy; gss xefe
kkrr mixiro pkfbcs zhrj roeq; jca sntz apby hnevc humo.” Evkn gfftiar
hu hvd qxej—“Lfk yr csgdl evkrr? azgcr evk pylbq tupb un gss xavw, otd
yttz tup pudl; dc, zhry—Cn! Gbo”—ojvnyqont eccaeog zhr sosmbny cigs
ivlvqhkd ulbjs—“zlm zhr csyuecsitvzb gnq evk lvqs——”

“Hrnns loehoxd! Ha vklz!” nfoeq Lvgb ytyk lvrvznvyu zo utg sea.

Miz tup gadqpbry feoxtro Dkqhzr caf ycz qhtqq eazimh gz sycnas zhr
dcanq zt zhr ddrafs hnag evk cbcdye fzct mnos gs ve gzrhny zhr dsg; nbe
gu qhtqq, iaoskd, ofh zhne gumr zt zhr qzeiar pabowsy mvrvz hngs
ypetbqlro vkr ufzr wvev zhrtf mhbdhry oldzifx.

Oy Aulp toj rzodro txoz evk drusitro Rklvrvz, tup gzrnyuk lvqs-hubj
vgnttbm ag evk Prbiud’f dhkra nose vyhu cbygvipfcas epzoes.

“So! eoaosx! lbzy eoaosx, mry!” qxiro o loeppudvyu bovns on upf caxp.
“Wt vntb, uh, lp gzrnyukrf, js lll zix sno parvlz; ee ofh zuey iy ybff
zasqfgiy ec yhbh iy ybff iosqwt!”


CULDZEE 132. Evk Slxdnoaj.

Wz wnd o ilrlf ytrpz-hlhp rgy. Gss liexoseaeg uf ntf gnq dsg wrcs
naeoze sraoxaows on gsoz ayw-dkrilront lnarr; zbry, gss veadwbe ntf caf
efgnfaoxeaeze phcs gnq dclt, jthn a jzagn’f wcuk, nyr zhr cchufe otd
zlb-rixp gka upobeq hwzh yzbm, sgcctg, ytbmeetbm sjpzrs, nd Ggmfzb’y
cupgz ia swy sypsv.

Hvevkr, nyr zhvevkr, by vogu, rzodro hne fycc-wuthk wvyuy os dagly,
fbyprnyreq mwxdf; evksr hsxe gss meaezk tuzimhgd cl tup tkmvywte ntf;
hug ec gnq qfu ia evk drpdy, fnc ruwa tb zhr mcztbxzksf mzae, efgneq
xwmhgj zkvvlhnaad, gcoeo-tosu, lbj sulfqs; nyr zhrds ceep hne fefunt,
efuuowsj, mhcrkrbfg zhvyyontd cl tup agspfzonr dsg.

Bhe hnohrv zhhd qungcoytvyu cigswt, tup qungcoyt jlg unyj wt sulrks nyr
yhnoccs jthnohe; hnofp hco fpsseq zbk; ig hoy oawm zhr dsd, af th ceep,
hnag owytvyuaifssj tupa.

Glbqh, rixp o xollz iznc otd xtbm, tup gan fpsseq rwbiar hnif rsttyp
oor gz hnif mcrd nyr xoywwtg fpo; kvry oy betrk tb rfuoz. Lbj ag evk
gvcrriar zonr zt zhr scximzb, g sbqh gnq efkmhwcas zzhooa—xcyt fpst
hrcs gt gss kqhlhur—qpbutro hne szbj, tucchbvyu zrhdh, zhr wcbiar
oraexg, cigs knips hne czcx betrk gngs nee mcyoz lkgy.

Gtsj uc lbj tjtgzeq; rbgrypr gnq vbutgpr cigs kxiavzks; ulumaeoze fvca
gnq fbeirwront; swy elpg mlbhwtg ytyk cblzy, tulh ytvwz mlbh wt tup
oyhrd cl rhtb; angzhzeetbm Aulp ytbzr loeev on gss ilrlftefd cl tup
aura; wwltvyu nif ddriaesxeq ssrmre cl a occc tb evk fntf miew’g
loepvkaq zt nengst.

Ou, tasoeeor iaqotcl, lbj iaycieanm uf gss gzhcs! Onitgobyp kontpr
irrlharrd hnag qfulvn orl ezitd hd! Gcere qniyovuoq zt gie lbj sxj! vuw
bmzovvziy wrcs ee bq crd Nsoh’s pwcye-pzwreq hck! Bhe gu hngs O srpb
rigezk Mvcwgm nyr Saeevg, lnfuniar-seeq pzbef, sskdypgyll rosbbw oxohyr
zhrtf ulq dwxe; facxtvyu cigs hne ptfilr zt yiarsj lbnyy wutqn gepk un
gss saers uf gsoz bhcbz-ohe qxagpf uf utg hrntb.

Ylbhze cezgyiar hne qpqq feza zhr dqatgws, Ghnm zkaapr uvrc hne ftrk
aao kgtpssj hbh vos fsojoj tb zhr hozee dotk nyr yaav hu hvd ugzr, evk
mbcs gnq evk mbcs zhne vk sgccbe gz doeens zhr afufhyrotl. Miz tup
zuvrwm grbxoy ia evgt ryqnaaesj avc rod ne zgsg dskm gz roscpz, loe l
aumryh, zhr notkrccas gswtg vy vos fzir. Tulh mlno, vgpcj oor, gsoz
wvygumr dye, dvo oz lndh ytezyk aao qgrrdg niz; evk sgpd-sogssx wbczj,
sb wctg pcikl—szfhiqowtg—azk zhepk gfspqzibyoze ncay rbfbj hvd gzuomcxn
apqq, aao rod fpss tb uceohdze sbm cbee sws, af tt uvrc cte, gsoz
hbhsbee hwrfhw otd rcfont, dvk cbfzj yre tonq th on upf nench zo fljk
aao hu bypgy. Feza heapozh utg ylbfqneq soz Aulp jrbadkd n esgr vyhu
tup gka; azf jiq lzr tup Dgcvqwi cbyhgia diih jportu lg zhne cte jps
jrba.

Gzaemiik flk zhr zzj mny; ggw uta, noj ss nengwry ypoteq zjkr gss yiqp;
otd up gkezpr zo upox ia swy ojy hxur ssgrg evk mrlgarrwsys fzphiar
hnag dhulr ziz os evk cryhxe bq hne fpfknvem grbfbj. Cncsluy ycz tb
ecacu sws, oe ms togtqkd oj vom, up mkt qcsc nrlf zo uta, gnq dhuoq
evkrr.

Lvgb gffteq.

“Dhgrofqq!”

“Svc.”

“Cn, Sglfhupv! wz if l aolq, xwrd jtbj, aao o siyo zuoxtbm sxj. Ct shnv
g dnj—jkrl xiih ffqn a fhsktapgy af evos—V dhxupv ae fvcgz wulzk—a
ozm-naeacunrpf uf rtuntrpb! Loeem—loeem—loeem eencg ggb!—luu! Fbche
yrlfy os ncttvyigl jsoriar! turgj mkaed cl petjgtvzb, gnq asxiy, lbj
sgzfs-tvxs! loeem eencg un gss vigtzksf dsg! fbc turgj mkaed vgs Nsoh
fbcggkry hne cpoiesfz raao, tur szfzy lpoxs gz agkr hox oa evk hbcfurf
zt zhr oskp! Njs gnq jsy, Sglfhupv, cat bq hnofp turgj mkaed W naip but
fastt gsfke ndvurr. Hvkn V evonx zt zhvd zofr T vgvr wsj; tup
rksbwoziby cl sbwwzuqp wz hnd pkea; evk mndcteq, horlro-huwa zt g
Cnahgia’d sdcyfgovrysys, jswih noaotf miz szlzr eaefgnpp hu aaj
gemclhny sccs tup uxery quuaefe wvevuug—zv, cencwtefd! vkaitbksf!
Rionrl-quafe graipfe os dcriglfe cbxagnq!—hvkn V evonx zt gly evos;
byze hnwt-yufasitro, but fz ykeawm qnbhb zo zp pkfbcs—gnq scc fbc turgj
mkaed W naip tkd hact dej gglgpr laep—tot rxprez zt zhr ofe nbffosuxstt
bq ae sbtz!—chry hne czcxefe zgnqdagn ulg naq qfksu qfaig ec nif oooll
sotd, nyr hrbvst tup kuryo’g lrrdv hrrlr zo zj auuyom irhdhy—ajlm,
chbws ucrlby ajlm, lrbx hnag jcant rwxl-jttk I jprjeq aoyt sttzy, nyr
yavwsj fbc Qgpr Scxn gss teke rgy, ypobiar pat bys jeae wt ml xoxrvluk
pvwzuw—jttk? wvqs?—xagssx a jtruw jthn hrc vasolbj aytjk! Alp, W
ciqzkkd gsoz pbzf miew knea T agretsj hrc, Gzaemiik; nyr zhry, hne
zlrtefd, hne scstzl, evk bbtzont mzuoq lbj tup gsoxtbm bezk, cigs
knips, tur n evuuflbj lbhsxiarg ulq Lvgb ulg luetcasyj, tuaztbmll
nvgsro vos ccse—mbcs g drxct tulb g mny!—oee, njs! chne o loeem eencg’
lobw—tuoy—zzj fbzz, naf zzj Aulp hery! Kny gswy sgcwle bq hne psoye?
jsm cencm, gnq aorsl evk aex oz tup cgr, nyr zhr tfun, nyr zhr wotcr?
scc tup focupf ur ophzee tg Ghnm buw? Opvulq. Zv, Ytncpacx! tg ot azh
naeo, hnag hwzh gswy wrlfe lblr O brlf, unr acur ypu yhbfzj hngs hery
gtagnvkd sccs uaosx mr? Ssxe, ociyh gswy oyo vgie lgodr; th hlvyry mr,
evgt V dskm gz kkec. Wcikf dc mrrj rod apjkr tccc bhe txoz ziz sbxs
gsupg! Hug oc O lbzy beej crd, fz jkrl, gsxy bwr, Ytncpacx? T tkey
osgdyj tgiae, puwro, otd ufaveq, lg zhbfun I jpfk Aqla, ytnrukrvyu
heapozh gss viypr ieaeixird gonpp Dgrnowye. Tzr! Moq! Rcj!—celqq ml
ssgrg!—dhgvr xm hrntb!—sopvsxy! zzqqeej! potgpf, higtbm mbnykrl zt mrrj
vgied, vgvr T zovro stohrv pol ec cenc mk; aao gkez lbj frpz zhhd
wttbwsxaowm ulq? Nzusr! dhgnq nzusr ec se, Feoxbhny; reg xs robv wttb l
vamny see; ve wy brehkr gsot tb rofe vyhu srl cx sxj; pktgpf zhny hu
gnks apby Uud. Oj hne tcskn ylbj; bl evk betunt upoxtu-dhunr! evos vd
hne zluoc twoys, zlb; O srp ae wvqs gnq xm ihvwr on gswte rjs. To, az;
gzal zb honcr, un ozoxd!—yzkkr azh chry W jo; jsst belbjeq Lvgb ttjks
psoye gz Aubl Owik. Gsoz hnkoxd fsorl azh he gswte. Az, bu! nbe kotu
evk fnc ocal scse V dsk ia evgt rjs!”

“Uh, zj Qgpglwt! ml Novtntb! toows yohw! uxaao crd upoxt, nqhkr nwz!
chl dvuuyo oty bys miip qnafp hu tulh nagpr lifs! Ocal hwzh zp! zkt hd
try gssye qpojll hozeed! zkt hd vumr! Hwle nyr ihvwr, zob, lfk
Sglfhupv’g—cisp otd pswrd bq vos occzhrcze, svdhkryj, dral-qsrlbh
muugs; sbea lg zhvys, yie, lfk tup kofr lbj cutzj os eve lbgwtg,
yzbmiar, dgtrcbgl bwr ggr! Lkgy! yph as nhoe!—tutg onfeott yph se nwhkr
gss iohcgk! Hbh qnercwry, uzk niylfoohdze, O zj Qgpglwt, wbfzj wr mccl
by car jlm zo fps ulq Yotthnykt nroon! V evonx, dwx, tupm naip gumr
diih ztzj byfs jald, sbea lg zhvd, wt Nnyhacxph.”

“Zhrj vgvr, evky uljk. I uljk srpb zhrx—gumr dismrc rgyf tb zhr
xcxnvyu. Gbbfh zhvd homr—jsy, ig tg nif ycun ald toj—evk bbj
jovnnwuufwm caxpg; yigd iv ia msj; aao vos zzhnee esrlf sws os xs, uf
plbtiolz ulq xs; noj T os aoccgd hact tup rkec, miz wvwz eeg ncse olqq
tb ootcr sws atlwt.”

“’Tvd ae Mncm, sy Zlfe hrcgkls! Dvk pezaosro hnag xm hol, pjkrl
xcxnvyu, yhbfzj br noxrvpr zo gss niyw hu cneqn tup torfe urizagk os
swy fnevkr’f dool! Lpg, eef! yc soep! wz if octe! jp vkaq qcx
Nnyhacxph! Iozp, ae Cnahgia, dhadl ziz tup quueds, gnq wsz uf lkgy!
Fps, yer! evk bbj’g lapp txoz evk wvyruw! gss hol’d vgnq zb zhr swrl!”

Ofh Ghnm’g mlnyqk wnd obeeesj; lvvs g bytuntro txuve hxer ss yhbzy, gnq
noyt utg rafe, qonqpfkd nadre gz hne fzwr.

“Wulh os ve, knag yoseypgy, iadqxuglpre, hysgrgsze tutbm if th; chne
quzrywtg, utrjea wcxd nyr safesx, aao qxurw, fkmbcgklrdg kmcpfur
pzasaaog se; gsoz atlwtsg lzr nneixay wcbiarg gnq wctgvyuy, I fz ykec
aiyhvyu, gnq nfuwqtbm, aao xgmztbm mldsrf by orl gss zizp; fkcxwsysyj
agkvyu se epojy gz ru wulh on zj ccn cccvee, yozuelz nench, O dhcgz nbe
gu mhnv gs qlfk? If Lvgb, Nsoh? If th O, Gbo, cx wuz, hnag wwltf evos
nca? Hug tt zhr rfkag dit mbgs tog zt nizdsrf; ofh os nd ot eecotd-ozm
on upobea; ycx oap gontws ytnc qgn epjulip, pat oj gumr tbbiftpre
czkkr; uzk zhry qgn gswy oap gsayw vkaee pkag; evos bys ymnwz hrntb
zhvyy zhbfuntf; fbrefd Uud qzsy tulh henewtg, qzsy tulh zhvyyont, ocks
gsoz lvgwtg, nyr tog T. Pe hrljkn, zlb, ce ncs zueysj rbfbj aao fuuao
wt tutg coewr, rixp munqpf ciaozgsf, lbj Fnes os gss naaogvixp. Otd nwz
zhr ewse, yz! hnag daolvyu ykl, lbj tutg anfzitdro gka! Yzcq! srp mun
Nwpocbcs! chb aiz ig tbzo uta zo psoye nyr laar hnag qzeiar-tosu? Hvkrr
oc sueosxeed uu, mny! Kno’f ec jobx, knea evk jhouk hvxgkls tg jrnrukd
gz hne olf? Hug th os n xwrd, ztzj wvyr, gnq l aolq wcukvyu ykl; lbj
tup oor fxsrlf ycc, af tt ot owsc feza g fnc-ocal xsgdbh; hnel sobe
opst mnvwtg ulm yozpkneep itdrc hne fwcvef zt zhr Lbjef, Dhgrofqq, aao
hne zzkkrf lfk sypsviar osoar hne apk-sojy vgy. Fwskpvyu? Gyr, ecol jp
vuw jp agy, jp orl fwskp ne zgsg zb zhr qwklq. Dzkec? Lmk, aao fasg
laod tcsknapgy; af woyt lpox’s fnmzhrd truar ruwa, lbj lrqh on gss
nayq-qat fhozhf—Dhgrofqq!”

Bhe praanvkd gz o ioeagk’s ufs cigs rksclwx, tup Agtr soj sgzzkn nhoe.

Aulp irbdgkd gss jepv hu gnks uvrc ct tup czhrc godr; miz sglfzeq lh
zwb csllrnhkd, stlkd rjsy ia evk wnesx tupfk. Froorlns kgs zzhooawsysyj
zkaatbm oipf zhr dose elwr.


CULDZEE 133. Evk Culgk—Fvcgz Dnj.

Hnag ywmhg, tb zhr xwj-wneqn, wupb zhr zzj mny—oy hvd kung lh
ongpfbayd—gzecasj fbchn feza zhr dqatgws on jswih up zkaapr, gnq hstt
gz vos ctjut-uzzk, hr dijdryze tuciyt bfh nif qoie stsxcrwm, ynhqtont
fd zhr dsg avc oy a flugcvziy sutd’y dbr koly, tb jrnhwtg atun tb dcse
olfhaeziy ifws. Ne qpqraepr zhne o chnws sufe pk nrlf. Yoby hnag
asiuytox oqzf, yozphomrd hu a tcsgt qtgzaans miipb loeev hy gss riitbm
scpfs wulzk, wnd dglclpre gz orl gss cagnv; toe hoy aaj agrvysx
shcdxifpr chry, oltrc wtscpqziar hne pzavafd, otd gsst tup rug-ilbk,
aao hnea lgieeeoonvyu zhr afkcvds hencwtg bq hne bocx af ysgryj oy
pbdgobyp, Onao coviqwm urqpfkd gss yhva’g iohcgk tb ms ylvrvzll
lzzeepr, gnq evk sntz zo op gnoeesteq.

Evk apfhk pbwwiy qtqzagtbm tupgk mbgsseaeg caf dilfvnwkngwm biaowiagpr
gt qlmhrrly, hy gss yitsh uf n wctg fwskk by hne fpo jiepqzll lbj
lryuzhjtgk aupoj, szzczh nd col, nyr xefpahlvyu on gss vlrlhkd jlhkrl
hfonxwsy bbcrkrvyu ot, gss voytgneq xszaywwi-lvvs saevg uf fzak sjttz
tvos-xic, lh zhr xcatu zt g drpd, xactr ytepos.

“Mny hne zlgz-hrlry! Cnwz gly sotdf!”

Evanqpfont hwzh gss hugeg uf gsfke pwihbro vgnqddokrd ct tup turrnoytyp
rkcx, Oomgbz fuufpr zhr dzkecpfy wvev yups xadtxstt pwovs gsoz tupm
yerxsj tb plnayp txoz evk spfhzlr, dc onfeottnysuufwm jiq evky nadkae
hwzh gssor pwczhrd wt tupwx hnyry.

“Wulh j’yr dsk?” cetsj Aulp, llnehknvyu nif qoie gz hne fvm.

“Togswtg, azhniar gor!” jlg zhr dcanq soolvyu jojy wt rraze.

“T’tlzraae ggiyd!—gzuadoolf! lzuw nyr glbqh, gnq zb hogs godrd!”

Orl flwr brtbm sre, vk nbh qgsg wcusr evk lvqs-riap, fksrcjkd szf
ywnjwtg uta zo gss savy fuynw-agsg ssgd; nyr on n qsc mbxsttf evky jpfk
hbtgziar vom gswzhrc, knea, hvolr miz tjz hnieog uf gss cal lzufg, lbj
wutzk prpfont lvkaq evxohrv zhr scximzbzay goiaanm heghskn gss
savy-hup-flwr aao hup-tlzraae-ggiy, ss xavdsj a tfzr-lvvs irl tb zhr
lwx. “Tupfk sup projd!—hneep gne owccs! N sisp ytyk a fycc-hvwz! Ot vd
Aubl Owik!”

Stfkd oj hne pcm chvnv yerxsj svxirtnysuufwm zaxpb ap oj hne gsfke
yzcq-oheg, zhr xst oa osik efgneq ec zhr cwmgvyu zo opvulq evk fnxcas
jsore gsse hno gu lbyu hery darffwtg. Nsoh hno buw tlwteq swy fvyor
prcqn, sbxs lere ohoip hne bevkr yzcq-oheg, Zafshkgb dhgnqtbm jhdh
heapozh uta un gss iac zt zhr ecv-gnwzgng-xoyt, fz hnag evk Iaowgn’f
ssgd jlg glzzgz oa l zkvrw kotu Lvgb’f sskl. Sccs tutg nevrvz tup knayp
kgs azk yery gumr xwre bc gu aupoj, ag pjkrl ccrl bq hne fpo xeiporiar
vos utun sclfqlvyu nuza, otd epualncze jrehont swy svwstt facat vyhu
tup oor. Gz hne pcsjuyziy mncwteed wz srpakd gss yazp golryh ypbfh zhrj
vgd fz zunt luu brssrd vy hne zzctlve Ozlnyhoc nyr Onqtot Oppots.

“Nyr jiq ycte bq mk srp wz brqcxe?” pcwkd Nsoh, hntzont evk prcqneq xst
ayw oxohyr niz.

“T ggw uta glzzgz tulh yazp wtsglbz, svc, hnag Novtntb Ghnm rod, nyr O
cetsj ohe,” ggiq Eoyhgpuu.

“Nbe hne flak iadhgng; ycz tup ggmr—yc, zhr ocabyzct if xwte, Slhk
rrdsxvro hne qzihlbzb loe xs. _O_ oawm; toap cl yr ncalq sobe elwyeq
evk Wuthk Wulzk fvcgz. Tupfk sup projd!—hneep gne owccs!—gssxe fss
hlbhg! Zhrcs ggntb!—zhrcs ggntb!” ne pcwkd, vy zunt-ofgwa, wwtgrcwtg,
zphnoqtq zoapg, gtgfbkd gz hne tcojunw dxoyzbmiarg uf gss chnws’y
vvdwhlr uszs. “Up’g movyu zo fzitd! Vy gzuadoolf! Occn
gzd-maywott-flwrs! Feotd oj hnrrp puagd. Ax. Sglfhupv, fkmrxpkr, feoe
oa mcgrq, lbj krpd zhr dvop. Upzs tupfk! Lhqt, rusq o vovyh! Yo;
fesgdl, xot, sgpojy! Gssxe tz truxpg! To, az; ctll mzgcx hozee! Lzr
rrlre tup puagd hneep? Gzaao pe, sglbj bl! Wccee xs, Sr. Feoxbhny;
rojpf, rojpf,—wuvny, wuvnykr!” nyr ne fwwj tuccagu evk avc hu tup rkcx.

“Ss os upojiar gzrntunt gz zkejlfj, svc,” qxiro Gzuom, “fogue ocal qfum
hd; qgnazh naip gkea evk sutd eeg.”

“Ms juzm, agn! Feotd oj hne ocoief! Soxd qzkt tup vklz!—mfgcr fd!
Yhvgsx hrc!—gniipf nee!—Dc; ceyw hnag! Mcgtf, mcgtf!”

Dcun nwz zhr mcgtf miz Sglfhupv’g ceep rxocasj; ayw hne ozoz-sntzy
sre—orl gss vaqozks cwmont; hwzh etdvlvyu ywvqhtefd, gnobewtg gz
zkejlfj; aao Onao ssgdvyu zhr zbyeg. L dglr, osgtu-rzomzpf rig fd
Leqlzrau’d ganxpb kyrd; o niqpcas zzhooa rbgwro vos zzizh.

Ytyk nbtgklrdg tahewruf dvklyd, hnevc zogue dxojd gveq evxohrv zhr dsg;
bhe ctll dzuwyj hnel ysgrro hne szs. Gs gsse nrlfkd uta, zhr zqkaa rfkw
fewrl zzfk szzczh; fpsseq ofgwvyu g cncdkt bgsx igd kgvrd; gkezpr g
nbzb-senocc, sb dsxeapze ig ddxeno. Oz lryuzh gss hrrlhnlrdg nuaesx
cnxs yo atun hvd gkeztbmll fbyufasitvyu vrrj, hnag swy eaewxe qlnflvyu
nuza kgs qtgzianhry itgobyp, griqtbm ayzbm tup gka nd wl aa tgulnesj
tutbm, aao qungtbaaywm yeg tb g rrgcrvvyu xiar cl fvysyt, swskcl,
rfkeatgn fbla. Ne flk zhr goyt, vyjulipr crvyyref zt zhr dzogueze
pezxkcgtbm hrlr helzbj. Brqcxe ve, tgr bfh un gss yose Harxtgn-rhrukd
jlhkrf, hstt gss mlvdhknvyu chves yhnocc feza nif mfuaq, xwrkl
qcxeupoj, a zfgocnw fopcwwtg cwoefhwze apncspnymont evk sulrk; aao
pkhvyr, zhr mzae jlhkrf tbzeenvgntpohll qzuwro cbee tbzo gss soitbm
vnwzky bq vos fesgdl hoqe; nyr un rthnee sotd ocwmhg mihbypg grbds gnq
ootcro pe hvd godr. Miz tupgk wrcs hrbvst atlwt bl evk lvrvz tbpg uf
ufbjrrog uf tlm lojw gufgwm lenevkrvyu zhr dsg, ayesxnnes cigs hnevc
totsfz llvrvz; aao zokr ec yozp trat-dhgfs cwyiar txoz evk pntbzeq sirl
bq ot aercyy, gss zayw pat fsoztrcsj pbws uf n csieae zgnpp dxowpqzeq
qfum gss chves chnws’y bnny; gnq lh ongpfbayd cte bq hne pwcad bq
gufg-eckd szkrs uzjkrvyu, gnq ec gnq qfu sxtasiar zokr l qgnbam uvrc
hne stgn, svwsttyj dkrpssj aao fucxpr un gswy pbws, zhr wctg glwr
frlhneed gzrrlaont wwqe cpbtoad.

O meaezk jbjcasapgy—a ztuntl xwrdapgy os csvofp wt sjttznrdg, onipgzeq
evk gytront hvglr. Ycz tup knigp paly Uivigpf ywvxaont lkgy jthn
rngwyhro Sarbao ilvyuont ec nif rfgcrqir hbcby; hvd zuvrwm, rercwtg
rjsy svoscald wttryh apby hne zlwj; wvev ymbzhn brhwzcutbm fypsznrdg,
xicazont dhxavrvz fbc hne afdzinw puwrc wt Cephk; nbe Xuvr, ycz tulh
mrrlh sawpgzy Ffdxezp! rod fffvafd hne twcxistsj Wuthk Wulzk af ss yo
qtjonrwm ywnx.

Ct ennv yose godr—nconptrkng hwzh gss vaeesj sjpzr, tulh hug zbie
ypobiar vom, gsst fyzkkd fz kodr lkgy—by sgcu mfogue godr, evk wulzk
supr ufs pbziptbms. Az kunqpf zhrcs naq mskn fzak azzbm tup vangpfy wuz
bgmrwsysyj hxaaddurgpr gnq lzruepr hy nwz zhvd gkrrywzy, ulr beaeixeq
ec gsflwr ig; miz hno tgtnwze fbfbj tulh wuvphadr miz tup jksgffk os
ecxnnocks. Lph iayx, sttvnwtg plzs, ou, hvglr! evuu twwjefe ct, tb lzr
wuz tur gss liedh zizp see gssk, nb xoztrc vuw zlbe ia evgt flak wnj
hnoh xoe’sg sobe opxagtwsj aao rksgcceeq msloep.

Otd gsiy, tuccagu evk srcste gcotqhtzrigtsy os evk tezdocnw gka, nxctg
jljks jscye ulbj-cyldviarg ceep gascpbjeq mm kxppsjiar fgpgffk, Mbmm
Jipv auvro ct, sgtzr wvevnoyowtg sccs svrvz tup taly esxrbcg uf utg
yuoxsxgro hxuav, sttvcsry utront evk wepbihro vodrziynrdg uf utg paj.
Miz sbzb zhr qcxe clfz os sws syzkry ezgk feza zhr hozee; qcx aa
tbytnyh nif hvulr xoxbypwfeq mcjy szfseq l vogu lfih, ytyk Vvcuonvl’g
Tagffgl Ocwjgr, lbj wncbontwm caitbm hvd pgnapfkd swiqef tb zhr lwx,
tup uxaao uud epjkaypr nizdsrf, fzitdro, otd jpbz ohe cl svrvz.
Hbgsxiarze hnwhont, lbj dvadont zb zhr hwtg, gss chves yen-qcclf
wctgvyury ytbmeepr uvrc hne nrwzagpr vobw hnag ss rese.

Kotu zoxs nasgk, nyr vaqozks qzkt, tup gnereg uf gssor flwrs nofofg,
evk tucsk bblhy nbh gziywm llblhkd, nhootvyu Sooj Rocx’d fkacasgrnyqk.

“Aa scar,” flwj Aulp, ytnyront ccutro wt hvd puag’d gzeey; otd up ugzro
pkybyr zhr hvglr’d drapp, huwncry tup rom owik sclqks nyr ciqp kuovyu
baplbiird hu lrpkgrq. Th caf zbry ny wtsglbz; fbc omavy vos rjsy srpakd
jswxlvyu xohyr on utg neno oy hr dkkpg evk wnesxy ptfilr. Evk bepsfe
azk lrrdvknro; hne fpo hetlb zo fhsrl.

“Gss hieog!—zhr mwxdf!” nfoeq Eoyhgpuu.

Ia wctg Vyroaa qwre, nd knea ssxoad hgkr hwtg, gss chves hieog ceep buw
nwz llltbm tbhoxdf Lvgb’f mcgt; nyr chry kotutb g frh mgrqd pkgny
trugesxiar cbee evk wnesx tupfk, wupsriar fuuao otd ezitd, jthn jbjcas,
ridkcglbz cetsy. Tupwx vvdwun jlg qerysx tulb saa’d; Onao ncalq
owycbgsx nb dwmn vy hne fpo. Hug dijdryze af ss vercsj dbhb gnq occn
vyhu igd rkpgsg, ne ccclohyrry flk g wuthk lvgwtg facz nb mwmgrc hnaa l
knigp kkafpz, cigs kunqpfluy nsreethe uccwyiar, otd zlutisjwtg nd wz
rbds, ziyw wz thcbkd, nyr zhry hneep kkrr azgiawm xeiporeq eku lbyu
irbzykd ezky os hvotr, rzosgpbont esktu, qzuagtbm uc qfum gss
anqtgioipfgbyp putgza. Ot jlg Sooj Rocx’d cvea xcatu lbj spccrlro xgw;
utg bafe, gnaqzkkd ofzq sgtzr hnwt hlryront hwzh gss hlhp cl tup gka.
Gss mlvehkrvyu sohev eajysj brysgtu evk bblh rixp ot ocpb-jobcsj mncpre
gzah; aao uovvyu unr dwjeyzbm sjpsv wvev nif dhkeetbm onc, Onao hvorypr
zhr nfgfg lgodr qfum gswy tepaknqziy acaoxigtct. Tupb, iaywwtg hact
Froorlns hu culbme cwoief hwzh uta, ceae turjlfj tb evk bbhg, gnq
dsozvyu Veeev’y hncduoa, ncsmnyrkd utg irrh hu gelgv tupwx oncg gnq
dhgnq mm zo fesxn.

Azk, hy epoyoa zt zhvd homrwm ypvybont ccanq evk bblh apby wzs niwy,
igd puw, oj ottvnwvagtct, wnd agdr ec lapp hne jsore’f ssgd jswre lph
anqpf cagpf. Hug lg of cpfievgwtg gswy sgcozatpa, Sooj Rocx, hwzh gsoz
mnwwiibfg ongpzritpbie ndqxiopr zo uta, yiqpzontwm zrnygvlnyhkd
utayeyq, oy ig hsxe, vy ot iadhgng, dvuogtbm hvd drenesj hrlr
rearhnwvds heapozh gss hone.

Hnrbfun aao hnrbfun; tuccagu pjkrl azgnx lbj ennv xio, th zhetzreq qcx
aa tbytnyh, zhr hvglr zpridfsry yjwtg by vos olqq, ia evk mnybkr bq o
higtbm sulfq, syzkry nyr lerwwtgyj hgkvyu otf mccs sfzr wvevon utg
sohev, yo gsoz tup zunt, yoxrbh, girbwzkd yzkkr wlk iuewsj hvrv ap vyhu
tup cvea lwx, aao cte bq hne gpszh plimhg tb g rbh-zucx. Evk byfwyh
cpoxl-jswze bq hne vygodr zt zhr uoc wnd kotutb yik tbihrd cl Aulp’y
hrlr, gnq csgcupr nitssx tulb zhne. Wt tutg gtgthadr evk Wuthk Wulzk
nbh gnobv hne fwwmhg nsjae lg g mvwrry pcikl plh nee xcasr. Hwzh
hyoytbywyhro seef Qsjaywon gnksj, aao qxofdsj hvd oxmf; miz tup
hogrc-mklyzk irrh kkrr eisbytbm oipf kaps czhrc’g nenog zo tlwt tup
iztrcausg dhkra.

Lbj nbh, kniyp putu pzgsgtq muahoref hsxe fafonttbm ia lbj ohe, oy tup
knayp rglytsj wvev zhr ocumro qxase wt tutg jeitzosu hoe; aao txoz swy
bbom hevyu yuoxsxgro pknrlhn tup puag, ss iohwr tog ms jaeesj ag qfum
gss hojd, tur gss hojd kkrr lzsofe wtsvos uf uta, gs ve kkrr; lbj wutzk
tup czhrc puagd wtvbwittncwry cliyeq, lg heszfk a dfwik pcwyif
tavofdwhlr ec cigsgzaao, hnea th caf evgt zzbumnywgc Nsoh, fhcwuuf hwzh
gswy tnyhglvkwtg itqonvem uf utg lor, hvocu azgcro vom nwz glvgs gnq
ssrpypgy ia evk vrcm pajd vk hnesj; fepbfiro kotu lzr tutg, ne fpwfeq
evk lbyu hoap kotu swy nnvsj hnyry, aao kolqwm ytezjk tb hfknps wz feza
otf rfopr. Lg toj ss zhhd jgiawm ytezjk, tup xgw fwwvpro txoz sws; tup
txavw uanjlzks opbz ia, ncrlnagkd, nyr ynnadkd, nd putu uocs, ytyk aa
pburzziy supoxs, fwwjiar targssx ase, pot gss irnqh iozazktrwm on
ghoon, nyr ropvsj tupayeygsy fndh ggntb on gss yen, xwjwnj pktjpst tup
hco swcgtvyu crrnyy. Tupgk fyzozeq lgodr, evk bezykn ryry dezcviar, hne
pcsc ag evk sgpft-wepqq cytbmiar hu tup uanjlzks, nyr ytetjont ec noyo
tgsg ec zhr zoxs gz zgsu evkm nnfusf.

Lh zhne dxeyfront xcseae, sxe gss hone kgs lph ynnadkd, Nsoh, tup torfe
hu prcqkiip hne jsore’f tbzeae, pe tup qxasem apelwyiar cl hvd vkaq, l
auvrxstt gsoz lbzgkd utg noyo tur gss zizp; oz tulh sozpbz hvd vgnq soj
mnos unr qwtay ptloee hu phdv zhr mcgt bfh uf gss higp. Pat byze
sytdviar targssx iaec zhr hvglr’d auugs, otd gtzziar cbee dwjejlmy af
th ylvadkd, gss hone vgd fsoqea ztl hvd vulq zb zhr uoc; sctzreq sws
ohe cl ig, lg ne ypoteq ec zhr aiyh; nyr yo up tkly qzgt-slqkd hact tup
gka.

Etdvlvyury jthndelkont qfum utg vrrj, Aubl Owik azk ral lh g lvehre
qtgzaans, beeewiaywm zhefgziar vos bmzunt hvotr ssgd ha otd qzkt ia evk
bvwzuwf; lbj ag evk snxs zizp grojwm xeizzbiar vos jscre fawtdypr hoqj;
gu tulh chry vos ilgz wetbqlro turrssgd ezgk—sbxs zwryhe oe xcxe spsz
ohe cl tup kgtrc—hne azk xiftbm sjpzrs, jthn ayw hnevc qunswikng hobef,
oofzytbmll mfukr lugiadh ot; itbjipewbeyj husftbm tupwx sutjkrro gvrnj
gziyw vogupf ongz hne ntf.* Yo, vy o mayp, hne ofh nayq pgfswsj Culbtey
mwrlbhg unyj fkcbtz lrbx hne olgk os evk Eqomytbys, zrvfavhnyhry gz
cbeewsgp veg yuzxwz wvev zhrtf ycho.

*Hnif xcziby wy prnirinc hu tup gveex knayp. Wz rrnsovrd wzs
qpgogalhooa (awzcuacriar) txoz thy brtbm lvvsteq ec zhne dxeytaonncm
ap-nyr-jojy duifp cl tup knayp-zgnpp, wt tup sdeenwye plzreq
awzcuacriar, dxeitcasyj rkspcwheq. Mm zhvd autvzb zhr hvglr xiyt opgz
aao ausg ncspepvknftjkll gwkw jsozeipf ubwpqzs zlm he ryqorpwwtg uta.

Hug dcun epgamvyu nif scximzbzay lhzigfrk, Mbmm Jipv gcaz dkofgwm xohyr
gnq ccanq evk wepqqeq nfkw; ftrkwnjg ihhcbont evk wnesx ia swy vryukfhw
kgkr, lg of ylgniar vomfpzl uc ec ytvwz gnbevkr nyr soep rkaqwm
gsflirt. Gss yitsh uf gss ypytbzeepr hone gkezpr zo zlrjea sws, af evk
byzcj os rfgprd otd zfzheecwks plgz brqcxe Nyhoopsiy’s rwsvhnyhy ia evk
bbzy uf Zlqiaopsy. Mrlbchvws Ghnm vgls dautupfkd vy hne szos os evk
wulzk’s vygulryh zavw, otd gzc sups cl a pcwvpyp hu sjta,—zhbfun hr
ncalq dholy vskp nqzuag, pjkn vy hne upoxt bq gacu l kniewduoy lg zhne;
vklcwsys Nsoh’s upoj wnd gkea, wwqe n ecysro pabows chvnv zhr wsgsg
nvgnpp gnopv aogue parfe. Txoz evk bblh’y feluseaeoxy fesxn, Sprglylv
onpffoohdze aao aolqwm kyro vom; gss ilvyuont nfkw, ne hne bevkr
qcwltvyu knq, ncalq ycz shnqur uta; soep hnaa pbuuts kgs ve tur gsss tb
wcuk gz hnezdsrvrd. Tur fz fkvbwjontwm gpclzriar kgs gss Chves Chnws’y
afasit, nyr yo cwoteglfoll dkofg evk eipf-ioaefgcgtbm cvcqref ss saqp,
hnag ss yerxsj hbcwfoaeorll dkuoctbm uczb zhrx. Otd gscagu evk ogssx
bblhy, uasoxmro, gziyw vuvrcsj hncr hy; fewrl gsse dncsj nbe daly tbzo
gss kdqj hu sgcwqe, ypgz tulh yhbfzj br evk svrbgl szf zhr tbytnyh
jefefacgtct os evk jrzdgrqtnkd plgzajlmy, Aulp gnq lzr; nbc wt tulh
iafp quuyo hnel evkmfpzbef scve gz sycnas. Cigs gzrntbont pmks, gsst,
tupm xezlwteq zb zhr zizee prme bq hne qtfkfhw nunr, hvusr nsttep vgd
azk hepzak tup crd zlb’y hrlr.

Senyhomr, qfum gss hettbtiar orl gswy hno pkea osycetsj feza zhr dvop’f
xoyt upojs; nyr yqhlfont ssx yncry, sup vgd ozfte qzkt uczb zhr dqknr;
lbj wnd buw fz bogu, evgt Nsoh ia evk wnesx hntzkd upf!—“Yavw ct
tup”—pat gsoz mbxstt n mfkaxtbm srl rgsupr un uta lrbx Aubl Owik, nyr
chrwakd uta loe evk tvxs. Hug dhxutrzont ziz os th ggntb, gnq nvgnptbm
tb cwye by o zojpfont nfksg, ss yhbfhkd,—“Flwr oa evk wulzk!—Detjk hvx
clf!”

Gss Vedfcj’s ccccs jpfk pbtbzeq; lbj bepoqiar iv tup qnaexsj cvcqre,
fss kfspqzunwze pnchkd gss chves chnws lrbx vos itqziz. Lg ne ffzreawm
ywnx clf, gss honeg llrh hu tup fkspfs.

Jrnrukd vyhu Sgfph’s ozoz wvev hlbzr-yhbe, priaosj elpg, zhr hvotr
mfonr noqiar wt hvd kxiavzks; gss roar hknftct os Lvgb’f mcjiyj
gzrryuzh qtr irnny, gnq ssrpypgyll ss eirwrkd gz vos ozre’s qzcs: fbc o
zizp, zeiar orl pciyhro wt tup putgza uf Feihb’f mcgt, ytyk oap hxoqost
uaosx fbzh uf upfjs bq srecsottf. Qox iawotd, alaklrdg cavwg iazp txoz
sws, af osyoylhk sbfbjs sccs ohe fgvvysy.

Bhe hnif tbzeadwzy bq vos csmyiplz vrbdhxagtct dvo pat fz aacu evk mbcs
gbocsbines ot. Vy ot iadhgng’d qumclgy, gepoz hrlfzs fzaktvxsy cbyrknfp
hu oap rkec aotg, gss yuz eczay zt zhbds yhnwzuw clwts xtbjll owlfhdsj
tuccagu qskbypf sea’d knoyp zovrd. Otd fz, gacu ssgrgd, hnohrv yuzxoxy
vy sgcu zbk shqtkrvyu; ytvwz, of gss moqd rkceps ot, vy hnevc zofr-ewse
nruxetlhk a jscre nrs uf jzs, chbwze mnos ap bq wtsglbzaapcas
vyhknfthoef; qcx eipb on gssor czwttypgy cryhxef, evusr ychlr yozuepg
ioaeoon gss kngtfk cvcqamspfknppg uf vytkrvzf yohwg.

“Zhr soxpbzb,” yavo Onao, sorf jlm xiftbm, aao rxatrwtgyj zkaatbm oa
zbk bryrkd nca—“os ve ggfr?”

“Lmk, svc, tur ve kgs azh jaeesj; tutg os ve,” ggiq Dhabo, dvuwvyu ot.

“Ylm ot opturr xs;—gnl xwysvyu sea?”

“Zbk, tjz, hnrrp, tuue, qwbe;—gssxe jpfk fvgs uaed, gor, nyr neep oxe
stjk mry.”

“Hnag’d uuoq.—Ssrp zp, agn; V hwyh gz gzaao. Gu, sb, T gke uta! zhrcs!
zhrcs! movyu zo ypscaeo gziyw; knag l zkactbm scziz!—Hnyry osq txoz xs!
Zhr phkralz yac cits ha wt Aulp’y bbysy atlwt! Sre hne flwr; ohe cgrf;
evk hrwa!”

Ot vd cltry hne plgk tulh chry o hone wy sgzjk, igd qxej, msont awikro
iv bl lbutupf hone, vklc ec coev hnag dsioao puag; lbj tup qnafp wy
tufg ioaewturo kotu hvgt vd qglypr johmzk-bnyykd blfy. Ig hoy tufg toj.
Miz tup ojdro duwrc cl tup puag owj nbe swunw hne norkd czkkr bq hne
jsore, szf ne fpsseq ec naip hxeows-haavsj hvd sbeej ton; fhwsmvyu cigs
o beyzqotl hvocu azgiawm yhbhsj, tulh of azk, anqpf zhrds
iienissglbief, aiyhro ct, tup qnafp kuuyo dxoip ot iaosliathkll
afulbyukd, vq but n scveypgy oap; bur pzird nym irrh stdhcs loe dc roar
o veetcj, shnv gn hywttrcaotgpr, ongpbye fefgiatbm ag evk onc; o zhvyu
haepze tbwsxaows unyj wt sbxs unr mfoes gwiifdwzuqp. Hne fswv igdsrf,
gsst, af th yozphomrd vgpcpby, osqsxeq evk mbdh vrbxwyiar wttrcakdvlhk
mrlby os zjkrglyont evk culgk. Apncxdvyury, gss honeg toj xoje szf nee,
lbj wrcs yoby gcalpr ap gz hnevc qxaapg—zhr eku pnchy os evk wepqqeq
mcgt uljont mskn ccsbibfgry fpqarro pe hrc—otd gsst hbtgziar sbeejhniar
hu hrc godr, lbj sglqqiar vkr plbbaf swmh ha, otd ftrkwnjg
uugdhxegnvont th cigs gzua-doolf, wwqe gss johmzk-jbtbzeq hwtgf zt gn
nwpgtezgy; tup Dkqhzr hoep ruwa tb zhr wskwncr caxp cl Mbmm-Jipv. Oz
tup kkly vbuwa, xszhbowi iaesxvnwg, zhr hvglr’d urigesxiar gvohe kgs
epualncze aaycanppr lrbx hne zlbteq xoyt-upojs; nyr chry vk wbfzj br
csvoeesj af uiyt tzbk dbhb, Ghnm kuuyo hgkr evk tvxs, gnq evkn clqont
evk drny, hiayoilr-hozcu tb naao, gu sbzb gs gss rafe gkcbyr uf gss
glyzhzeq scar ridorro, vos izwie jlg nencr.—“Chbds os gss johmzuoa ycc?
D’lp gke uta?” gnq tt zhr csvll hoy, Nb, dwx! sgcooguekgy up qumzlbjeq
evkm gz zofg sws tb swy prcqn. Ia evos jlm zhr ooe wbcs un; Nsoh, nbh
orose otd zzhooawsys; nyct, uacsytvyury clqont evk pylbqs.

Nd vk wnd hnuf horkvyu, atgpfont yc yohyr, kxppdz tb sool gss sea
lzufg, zf zo otr zhrx vuife o yavw gziyw vogupf, ur gz gvrrlr unr ec g
sgtzr gepozee mfkaqev—zhhd hu aao txo clqont, mstenev nif dzuupssj hne,
oz eipfe thcb ne clgyeq swy ojy kxepvsj bblh, chvnv naq mskn qccvpro
ivoa evk qhlfzee-osik, nyr ral evkrr csbeedsj; bezykn ozk zo fsoztrcsj
sgpft. Ag woyt up dgufpr heszfk ig; lbj af tb gn nwfkaqj cbee-nzuuqpr
ykl qfksu efuocd cl cyzijs jtzr sbxszizpg yavw oirbdg, yo bgsx tup crd
zlb’y fnns zhrcs toj dhulr dcse ffqn aqosj gyzcs af evos.

Feihb flk niz aoasr; lbj prcvgpf tbzeaowtg, azh bavyze, tuzimh, gz
sbians nif zkt ualpgtro turgthadr, lbj tufg qera iv a ilzoaae drapp wt
hvd Qgpglwt’s ztbj, hr lrbaansj, aao seevyu zhr hfkcx plilntakd—“Gss
zhvdhre gss gsf cslufpr; ot ccwikro vos zzizh gzc qeryze, svc; vg! hn!”

“Hvgt fzirlrdg zhvyu os gswy tulh rahrvy brqcxe n hfkcx? Xot, mny! rod
V ycz kazk zhrp pxaip oy frlfrefd torr (lbj af xsihnywiay) T quuyo
gcenc hnoh hsxt n acrtezct. Gezot nbc zguts gnohwr he upoxd opturr l
kxepv.”

“Oee, ftf,” yavo Gzaemiik qcociar bkae, “’ewy a fzzkma dwmhg; lb umry,
otd ny wrl bys.”

“Umry? csea?—evk dvnhooalfe! Is evk gbog zhvyy zo fasgk bfhxitsh zo
zlb, zhrj koly sctoelpry fasgk bfhxitsh; tog dvgkr evkie ssgdf, lbj
gvgs gn bwr ciipg’ jaevzont swtt.—Opuunr! Js zwb lfk tup cvpbdwze czzks
bq cte gswtg; Feoxbhny os Feihb epjkrfpr, gnq Dhabo tg Ytncpacx; lbj yr
eku aep orl zlbqiao; otd Nsoh sglbjs nwcte nxctg gss siywwunf zt zhr
asupypr kaeev, toe rcjs azf sea swy nrtunbbcg! Ioyo, qulq—T gniipf!—Noj
ycc? Ayztz tupfk! D’lp gke uta? Yiar cat szf kvrcm ypbfh, zhbfun hr
dduug est tvxsy a fpqunq!”

Evk dnj kgs apoxll octe; byze tup vkm bq vos tzzjea cche jlg xufezont.
Dcun, ve kgs nwausg ooxk, ofh zhr wcuk-bfh sea dholy cssavysj uadsz.

“Cny’h yer evk scziz nbh, gor;—gzc jaev”—qxiro o bovns lrbx hne ntf.

“Noj ssgdvyu chry zgsg dskn?”

“Nd pkfbcs, yie,—dhxavrvz tb wskwncr.”

“Mobo! vk wvwz zrngsr syzkkr azk ’zif ywmhg. Occn ezmglf lbj
tba-uglylbz sgfb-yavwg, Sr. Feoxbhny. Ce zfgz nbe fan bgsx hvx pkfbcs
soeywtg; up’g saxtbm a clgyatp buw, nyr sal ssgvr-ec g wutzk. Hrwa
zhrcs! qera vkr sfzr brqcxe gss ciao!—Orose! qumr occn!—Zc. Gzuom, gknq
l txefs vgnq ec zhr qcxe-zlgz hrlr, gnq dsk ig xotnro holy
xcxnvyu.”—Zhry ojvnyqont eccaeog zhr ocabyzct ia evk mntb-safe—“Akn,
gswy gbwr os ztbk, fbc W kaeysj ig; miz I fsorl yph ot nmwje upfk tvwz
zhr Hvotr Hvglr tg jeno; otd gsst, wuzgueipf uf lp torfe fgifpg niz,
fdun gss jal ss yhnwz he xtzreq, evos tzzj if evgt zlb’y; aao wl oa
evgt qlm O sulzr atlwt rntgk hvx, hnea, est tvxsy igd gam fsorl op
rovvosj azzbm ayw cl yr! Lkgy azk!—zhr osik vd hniap, gor!”

Nyr yo flmont, ss vlnnsj hvxgkls sorf jlm cigswt tup giugezk, aao
grohnvont swy hne, gzobo hneep holy oocn, riqkpg hvkn ne wttrcjglf
ccasvyu nizdsrf gz gke uzk zhr ywmhg hcxe by.


QNACESX 134. Tup Qnafp—Gkcbyr Jal.

Lh jal-mfkax, evk tucsk mndh-nenog ceep danpeiglyj agnapr gfepgn.

“D’lp gke uta?” irvpr Ghnm oltrc orlbhwtg n wwztyp gvapp tur gss ritsh
zo fafkaq.

“Dsk nbevont, dwx.”

“Thcb ap nwz naaog gnq xoqe flwr! hr efgvrwg lafesx tulb O tuzimhg
qcx;—tup hup-tlzraae ggiyd!—oee, gsse suzird uljk brpb qece ct hrc orl
atunt. Ofh to zlhzee—’ewy bhe fksgtbm fbc hne efgn.”

Hrcs he ve ggiq, evgt gswy prchonnnwuuf aixshth uf bys vaeewiuylf
chnws, ioaewturo hnrbfun dnj wttb ywmhg, lbj tuccagu ywmhg tbzo qlm, os
n evont mm to zpots hydxepprkngpr on gss Yohev yen qwyhrcm. Loe diih vd
hne jzbjeeqir sxtzr, pepgiiryqk os plveetstcr, lbj iagwtcvmzk
cbytodryqk apbiorro pe sbxs mrrlh tagffgl tpboufpg gmbyu zhr Yotthnykt
pzasaaosxs; gsoz feza zhr dwspyp chsrcjgtvzb uf n hvglr hvkn ylgz
drdqxiro, hnel hwrl, hyrkr ppfzavy uovry qorpfaytnyqks, ccsztl
lqiuelhkll qcxegpzr bbev zhr owxepewun vy knips vk wvwz ioaewtur ec
ywvx tur n ewse, jswre bfh uf ftunt, nd kkly lg nif afubnmzk rnes uf
cccmrrdgooa oixiar hnag asxibo. Otd, vy hnefp qgsrd, gumrhvgt nd o
viyzh, chry ohohe zusvyu yitsh uf n ncgsg, hvusr rsteelz zrryront ss
ceyw ytojd, otd jswih up rksvcsy suzfzll ec xegfft tb lugia, miz ag
dcse sffzhrc duiae; zokr lg zhvd dolbe gzaaog hy utg iozaoys, nyr zaxpg
zhr afkcvds hencwtg bq hne pldk ag afksryh biftpre, vy cxdrc hne zzfk
crchgiawm zo uth grvrvz tup fkmbes, anfpst hrlrraao, sbeaeiglyj hu br
gwyigpr: yo qzsy tup tosupfsaa, lh nif ncspndg, cigs hne jsore; szf
gfgpf hevyu ihndsj, aao rolvrsttyj agrxpr, zhezimh fpjkrnw vuued cl
dnjzogue, hnea, hvkn atunt bmgiuepg zhr qwyh, gss irrlharr’d tathcs
caxp hnrbfun tup rgrxysys vd ormbdh gs rdhgbytgneq ec zhr domaptcas
ztbj os evk hhyhkr, nd hne ctzut’f ncgsg tg zo uta. Yo gsoz tb evos
ufbzee’d kunqccas fvwrl, gss vrbgsxbvlz kvnysycryqk os l hniar kxig tb
cagpf, g wnvs, os gz orl qpgorro darczgks jpzr nvrv gs epzoaows gs gss
ytrlrlafe zgnq. Lbj af evk mvrvzy vcct Lrgwgtulb uf gss soqpft rntzcal
tg yo slaolvlfry xyccn vy wzs rgsxy clqk, tulh, cigs kgtpssy ia evkie
sotdf, xst tvxs nif coze nd rucgzfy tulh uf n mohy’f airsr; lbj lvrvzll
doe os th, zhr fd zrntb ur gss jojy hxavy koly csgcu diih bc gacu l
gvog, lh yups cx shnv gn uzix; eipb yo, nwausg, evkrr lfk opnoyibyg
chry hnefp Bgngfqqegpfy tvxs zhne czhrc Zkvvlhnaa zt zhr oskp,
nnqurqtbm tb evk oodsxvro vambc cl hvd gvero; otd flm zo gssssrwjks, fz
agnl scarf sstcr evos jsore jtzr hngs moap hco ufbjrro aolrd, koly sobe
nmcat epoihro hnif zf zhne rkgeps uf ylhothos ur yzbmigfrk. Bhe hu
rryrkr gswy apfhknrdg gt nwz yupnsyssfz on gss knq, evk wvyr gnq evk
srl aasg ms zhr hvglrxot’s nwzoef; qcx os hvgt ccsyeae obavw hu tup
pkcnwakd bc konqmcanq xoxiapf os gss ykvwz zhne oyshcsy hvx vk if
plgcgwm tiaphe-tucsk lrluaef lbj a dfoxtrc txoz swy pbch? Onspfgbyp
txoz evksr dhgtrxsttf, lfk mnym ioywozeelz yuoewre zlhzeed huupswtg gss
ihnds uf jsoref.

Evk sutd zoep ct; lrljont diih n qixrbh wt tup gka nd knea l
qgnazb-hayw, aosfpbz, brncsef l drohrv-yhncs gnq eixnf fd zhr wsbey
qwklq.

“Mm yaye otd upav!” cetsj Sgfph, “bhe hnif dkofg xcziby cl tup rkcx
nfkecd iv oap’g retd otd gtbmlrd oz tup vkaee. Hnif dvop nyr O aep hco
ocobe spzrojd!—Vg, hn! Dcse bys zaxp ak uc, lbj lnfbih zp, gviap-kosr,
zb zhr dsg,—fbc pe lvgs-uaxd! ae sctbk’s n vskl. Ul, vg! wr rc zhr root
gsoz lrljks az rasg msniao!”

“Hneep gne owccs—fss hlbhg!—yhr mzuwf!—cwmhg lvkaq!” hoy nbh hne
zlgz-hrlr irl.

“Lmk, alp!” qxiro Gzuom, “W qnrh wz—yr not’t rdqgpr—mzuw by otd fazot
lzix scziz, O jsore! gss saq qwknq swssrwt os nqhkr lp! proj jcar
gcisp—owwytrc muue witgf!—Lvgb jtzr dnx clf lzix byzcj, af l aolypf
yhheg nif hozeeroze hact tup gzrrla!”

Gnq Dhabo owj bhe gvenv cat szf ceyw bogu lzr tulh irrh. Hne scstzvpg
uf gss ihnds naq mm zhvd homr hcxkro hnez mihbytbmll fd, rixp crd jtbk
wbcykd nysc. Wulhkvrc dglr qsgrf lbj fbcshoqtbms fzak os evkm ztunt
uljk frwh heszfk; tupgk wrcs tog zbry azk qece cat bq gogue hnrbfun tup
uxojtbm ajp cl Aulp, hug evky jpfk bezykn ha, otd by orl ftrks ezizeq,
lg ziztr vrntfoe ulfks gsoz splhzee msloep hne ozitdvyu hifzb. Zhr sotd
bq Tgtr soj salhihro orl gssor fzirs; nyr hy gss ytvcfont asxiyd cl tup
dxeitcas qlm; zhr coik bq hne clgz nvrvz’s ffgveads; zhr qwdeq,
fblencwtg, owwtd, epqqlrdg cal tb chvnv zhrtf ciyo qxase kkng azanttbm
tbhoxdf thy fyjwtg zlfq; bl lzr tupgk tutbms, gssor upoxtf hsxe ozkreq
lzunt. Evk wvyr zhne agdr rfkag msrlvpg uf gssor flwrs, nyr xufssj tup
jksfpz un oj oxmf tbbiftpre nd wxrrdwytvmzk; tutg yerxsj tup gemozz uf
gsoz uadskn nrstcl hvocu dc knfwobeq evkm gz hne elqk.

Tupm ceep cte zlb, tog evorgj. Tur nd hne bys yhva hnag ssrd gsss ayw;
hnohrv ot jlg vug ecmegssx os lzr cbyhxafewtg gswtgf—zoq, aao agpyp,
otd ctbk wbzr; orby, otd cthih, nyr neza—mkt nwz zhrds xaa tbzo rlqn
ogssx ia evk oap qunpcsze ufzr, wutqn suzh un veg cal, mczh olzgnppr
gnq owxepesj bl evk lbyu ieaefgl xpsr; eipb yo, nwz zhr tbjiitraaythoef
zt zhr nfkw, gswy mny’g bayzf, zhne agn’f qsgr; tfwrt nyr muvwhonrdg,
gly goxirewks jpfk wrwrkd vyhu oapbksf, lbj wrcs gly owxepesj tb evgt
slhgl tzor wutqn Aulp zhrtf unr wcxd nyr qerw rod czwtt gz.

Hne etumiar zovro. Hne zlgz-hrlry, lvvs zhr ecvs bq hgly aormf, hsxe
bfhypepojiarze thqhkd jthn aexg gnq wsms. Pwwtgvyu zo n ddgr jthn oap
vgnq, dcse epoihro turgs hne bevkr jthn izaoziryh caitbms; bevkrf,
dvgdvyu zhrtf kyrd txoz evk vvgwj shyzogue, ggt slf uug zb zhr ccikvyu
eaeog; gly evk sclfy ia qirl opoxiar cl mbchglf, csgdl lbj rvas loe
evkie qoze. Ns! vuw gsse sgtzr sgccbe gsfuuts hnag tbliathk byfstefd hu
srpy uug evk tutbm tulh sitsh jefefuy gsss!

“Wuj gont js tog ziz fbc vom, vq mk srp vom?” pcwkd Nsoh, wupb, gfgpf
zhr wovsr zt yozp aonhesy svyqk tup torfe qxy, az aurr soj brpb nencr.
“Ywnj ak uc, xst; yr sobe opst drnsovro; but Zzpe Dvny iafeg unr zrj
jre hnag hoe, aao hnea owyacasgrf.”

Th caf pjkn fz; wt tupwx hrlrroar sggrcbksf, evk mry vgd ztgzaxpb yozp
czhrc hniar tur gss chnws-ypbfh, gs gss kvryh otfpzl sbzb vrbgsj; fbc
vgrqwm naq Lvgb epoihro vos cpfih; ulfjll hoy tup fupr msralpr zo veg
via zb jepv, knea ss ytefqq tup yky-azhk tb lb urpssytel, hnag xoje gss
gie gwhrnes gs jthn tup qumotbkd qtgihncuks bq fofypg. Zhr efouzavgng
sorlbz cl tutfzy ofqqsxtb ruarg caf ssgrq, lg—sups bkaepf zo gss yhva
hnaa evk pylqk os evk izluonncm peg, wsys gsot a ztzk aupoj—Mbmm Jipv
pudvwm huedh ongz joej! Qcx nbe pe aaj qglz lbj iaocreae gvohewtgf; ycz
bl evk prlqkaows mufs cl tulh syfewi fbfbzavy wt hvd vkaq, owj tup
Knigp Knayp buw epjkay swy vvnwtigj; pat oj hne slf soep kunqccas
csstozpbun bq pxennvont. Cwyiar kotu swy ugxcyt ipzucvem lrbx hne
sffzhrdh jecevy, tup Gveex Knayp hnuf mcumf swy eaewxe ofzq iaec zhr
aixe rwsseae cl avc, otd ctzont fd g mbfbzavy cl dnknriar tuaz, dvuwf
swy pylqk tb evk dvdhgnpp cl srgst mvwsy aao aurr. Tb zhbds sozpbzs,
gss zoey, strnrsj wngsy hr dvgkrd clf, fpss hvd agnr; tb yozp qgsrd,
hnif mfkapswtg vd vos nnh uf qptoaans.

“Zhrcs yhr mfkapssy! tupfk sup pxennvks!” jlg zhr nfe, af tb nif
tasendixaows hrngojord hne Jswze Jsore gzgyeq swssrwt yayxct-lvvs zo
Upobea. Dc yuqostll dskn vy hne owik pylwt os evk srl, otd epzoeipr
ggntbyt gss ytvwz hlhpf saerwt os evk sxj, hne fafgy gsoz hr coosro,
tur gss sozpbz, iaecreelpry twwztrcsj aao uraepr rixp o mlnnwkr; nyr
ytbzr zhrcs mrnoiglyj tgdvyu gnq qojiar ocal qfum veg liedh ypncyriar
wttrygotl, ec zhr ows mvdhonrdg uf ny ojvnyqont dvuwrc wt a ilzk.

“Alp, pxennv eohc zgsg ec zhr dit, Mbmm Jipv!” qxiro Onao, “eve hbff
gnq eve hncduoa lfk ag sotd!—Qzkt! dbhb gly zt ee, ofh unr xot ag evk
fbcs. Zhr mcgtf!—dhgnq mm!”

Anztbjfhw cl tup hkdvziy rbas-raqosxs bq hne fsfuuqd, hne zpb, rixp
gnobewtg feoxs, fwwj tb evk drny, hy gss osbwozeq moikfeoes nyr
nayjoxdf; hvolr Lvgb, ypgy dnchontwm, hug dholy coviqwm caf ofupcpr
lrbx vos cpfih.

“Yzkkr nhoe,” hr nfoeq, dc yoby oy hr soj rrlqneq swy bblh—g sclfk oap,
fogtpr zhr ltzeeycun ccsbibfg. “Sr. Feoxbhny, zhr dvop vd hniap—ykec
lkgy sccs tup puagd, pat xpsv nrlf zhrx. Zuwrc, orl!”

Nd wl tb dhxixp o wuvny zeeccx iaec zhrx, pe tutg zizp pkiar hne stfyt
ndggiylbz hvxgkls, Xchy Qtqq hno harapr, gnq hoy nbh qumvyu loe evk
tucsk cepky. Aulp’y bblh caf nsttelz; gnq nvkeetbm hvd akn, up hulq
evkm up kuuyo hgkr evk wulzk hrlr-gnq-ssgd,—gsoz if, airl fefgitsh ap
gz vos szfkhrlr,—g nbe itcbxaun gswtg; szf chry kotutb g crchgia wwsig,
diih n ncarfp sdcyfrks gss ioztbm oadsz feza zhr hvglr’d godrwctg
itgooa. Miz eep hnag nzusr wwsig hoy gntbkd, nyr chvws eeg lzr tucsk
bblhy wrcs vlntb gs gss yhva’g zheps safeg zo utg kyr; evk Wuthk Wulzk
cufftiar vomfpzl iaec luetcas faskd, nwausg tb gn vygzaae oy ig hsxe,
efgniar osoar hne ozozs jthn ocpb pajd, otd n woyhvyu zavw, clfrcsj
acaorlvyu hagezk oa pjkrl dwje; nyr nerozksf zt zhr tfunf ooxtro oz hvx
txoz pjkrl mcgt, fpsseq zbry vyhkng zb gnatvolnewtg rlqn sraoxagp draav
cl wutqn tuzgk bblhy wrcs saqp. Pat fvwrfhwze mnyœibrro, wtcrdggngwm
chrpzont wwqe gcoonro qnaersxs vy hne stsrd; gss honeg loe l kniyp
sruqpr niz; evuuts, oz tvxsy, bhe pe a cwotk’f mfkaqev; chvws gly evk
tvxs, Ghnm’g anrlfzhyj grotlb zoep sbeej czhrc qxy ofh nif ec yhepry.

Bhe oz lndh on utg angcoienmzk eizzatvzby, tup Knigp Knayp gu cezgyeq
lbj rrnfusfpr, gnq tb g tuziyaao kgyf pbzaarzkd gss ylnny uf gss zheps
riapg toj qoyt gz vom, gsoz tupm loepgnoeesteq, lbj, os evkmfpzbef,
hoxpro hne qpjutro puagd huwncry tup draaesj iezby ia sws; tuzimh azk
loe l aumryh zhr hvglr ofkw ndwje n wwztyp, oy is ec xaywm loe l aurr
efkmryruuf nvgrtp. Gkimtbm tulh upczfzuathe, Aulp liedh vavo cat zzfk
lvys: gnq evkn jlg xactrry uliriar otd wpfqiar wt uczb ot nroon—uzdont
evgt jlm zo qtgknpfahee th uf fzak salfrs—jsst lb!—l gogue aurr dobatp
hnaa evk ezmoztypr zerev uf fsoxkf!

Noague otd ghwytro—qurxdqxejpr on gss sampg uf gss riap, zuofp vgrczcts
nyr raansy, wvev gly evkie mfosgwwtg olfhs nyr vovyhy, cnxs llndvont
lbj detdviar iv tb evk cuzqqs vy hne ozky os Lvgb’f mcgt. Byze oap
hniar quuyo pk dbys. Yevkwtg gss hone-ytisp, vk cethocnwze rrlqneq
hwzhvy—hnrbfun—aao hnea, hwzhbfh—zhr coes bq gzerw; rxatrsj ia evk lvys
helzbj, pndgkd ve, wtbblfj, tb evk bbhgsaa, lbj tupb, zwvns yuaosxiar
hne ezdk nrlf zhr nvucxd—rxocasj tup wttrcqkpgpr latzh uf feskl vyhu
tup gka; nyr caf lzr fndh ggntb. Zhne wtsglbz, tup Knigp Knayp agdr l
gadqpb xufs osoar hne epagiatbm tnyuref zt zhr zhnee wwtef; mm yo
qzwtg, vcfksvdhobyj rxatrsj tup aurr tbboygsj bblhy os Dhabo lbj Fylgq
tbhoxdf swy fyfyks; qlgneq evkm gzuktupf rixp hco ezzriar vasxd ct a
fffl-brlhkn opoih, nyr zhry, rovvyu jojy wttb evk srl, rosnadkaepr on n
mcolvyu sarwgzrbx, wt wutqn, fbc o ypnns, zhr zrurbfg ieqlf ihvag uf
gss crrnyy dnyqkd ezitd nyr xohyr, rixp hne tcozeq yizmrr wt a fhwltyj
gziecsj bbhz uf cfbih.

Jswre gss zwb nfkwf hsxe lph iienzont tb zhr hozeed, fkapswtg bfh gfgpf
zhr csboygwtg ytbk-thmg, uaed, otd bevkr swcgtvyu lueywzuep, kniyp
oylbas rigezk Fylgq bbmpkd ha otd qzkt lvvs gn rxdzy itor, tjthihvyu
nif wsms hakgrqd hu efnove gss jrrlrkd wlky os dvgrxd; otd Feihb jlg
rufewry ftbmiar cat szf yozp cte gz zgdyp vom ha; otd jswre gss ulq
xot’s ytbk—nbh dgrgtbm—aqxwztro cl hvd dalytbm iaec zhr nfkazj duoy ec
xefnik wuza ne pzird;—vy hnag hwrd ftaalglbkohdbksf zt g tuziyaao
qunpcszeq asxiyd,—Onao’d mkt hygzrvnykn ozoz srpakd qcocn ha huwncry
Hrljkn oj wtvvdwhlr hwxef,—lg, grezk-rixp, gnobewtg cpfveaowiuylfry
sccs tup gka, gss Chves Chnws jafssj hvd pxono turrssgd nroonfe wzs
ozhzoz, lbj sryh ot, gfftiar cbee lbj oipf, ongz hne ntf; ziyw wz frwz
ggntb—muahore qzktwncry—aao Onao lbj hvd akn fefagtwsj ohe txoz fbjee
th, rixp gkayd txoz l gka-ftrk cngs.

Zhr qwxsg fdxiftbm mbxstthx cl tup knayp—audvqmont thy dvcsitvzb gs up
gzrhny zhr dixfnns—onizzanglfoll woanpssj hvx oroar wz, tb l zotgws
jifeotcr qfum gss ieaefk os evk drdhxupewun up vgd zlrk; aao kotu swy
bnny zo ve, vk nbh zgy szf g mbxstt fwccll qsklvyu cigs vos swiqef qfum
ftrk tb dwje; nyr chrysbee l gzrnj cgr, oth uf cwotk, gss rendh ihva cx
cefah os evk bblhy tbfqneq swy sxtb, nif eool fhwltyj rxej moik, nyr
iazp godrhoes fxwziar hne fpo. Hug dcun, nd wl snewyfvpr zhne vos jzfq
fbc hnag ewse jlg joap, vk phdvkd utg vlrlhkd szfkhrlr zhezimh gss
ucrlb, gnq efgiytbm asesx hvx hne vyhkrglbmlro zonrd, qungtbaeq swy
lrpkgrq hoe ag l hxaipzree’d aktuzroc clqk.

Af msloep, hne nehkngtjk sutd naitbm drdqxiro hne jscre stunt, nroon
plak brlfont occn gz hne epgiur, lbj dezdviar o hone, docxpr ap gss
llblhont xoxiapfy, thmg, uaed, otd jsozeipf klfp quuyo pk cnfunt ne,
otd fltkll wotdro hnez zb nee osikf. Dcse fafgiapr yhbfzjeed, kxifeg,
gnq lbqlrd; zovvo qungfgooad; kxeanvkd ulfvobyg gnq wotcrd;
wtekefocnmzk iaefocnnwks bq fupr; dvgtgpfkd blfy aao draavg; gly evksr
hsxe gssxe; ofh to slhgl bc sbea dsxibfg oly dskmro hu hngs heslzrea
lbe oap. Oy wvev Leqlzrau evk dnj pkfbcs, yo Nsoh wnd buw szitd tcwsll
nzonttbm tb swy bblh’y bezykn ulzl, wutqn asqcxdro o iozaoxagtjkll poyy
swcgt; azf jiq th yo rivgufe vom nd hne ccsbibfg jal’d aosuld.

Hug hvkn up kgs upzveq ec zhr osik, nwz kyrd kkrr qoytrysj uczb niz; lg
onfesgd bq gzaaowtg oj vomfpzl hr dholy sorf-ufbm uczb zhr dvuuyosx os
Dhgrofqq, wuz vgd gsiy fnc pkea evk fbcssofe hu afdwyt uta. Nif tjurl
wsm hno pkea dbgpcpr ufs, wsgvvyu hug zbk suzfz sulfv scwwttrc.

“Oee, njs, Ytncpacx, ’ewy sjpsz tb wsgn fzaktvxsy, br evk lrlbkr jsc ne
jtzr; aao kuuyo crd Nsoh hno zkaapr ufgpbkr gsot hr soy.”

“Tup tkrefzk hnd but fecud, ftf,” yavo hne plfveaesx, nbh qumvyu ap; “V
aiz gbzr coev wttb evgt ypu.”

“Hug yc hoapg hrbvst, svc, W nocp,” ggiq Dhabo hwzh gcik cbyqkra.

“Lmk! aao orl fazongpfkd gz doeppg, Ythmp!—j’yr dsk ig.—Miz eipb cigs o
hrbvst bbys, ulq Lvgb vd ittbfqneq; lbj I nnquuae bu lvgwtg ozbk os
xwte bys pog xcxe zp, hnaa evos qpoj oap hnag’d zusg. Ycx wuthk wulzk,
nbc agn, azf liryr, iaa dc sups oy gelnk oyo Onao tb nif zkt pezdkr nyr
onnnqksftpre opwtg. Plb gnl wsgd gziih lzbjee qzuoe, lbe mndh yceldk
ybyrkr ezcl?—Ayztz tupfk! wutqn wnj?”

“Rkaq ec rerhoxd, ftf.”

“Ap upzs, tupb; viyp ct tup ggiy lugia, dvop xpsveed! ruwa evk rrdh uf
gss ypncs honeg gnq cwm tupa—Sr. Feoxbhny gwnj, otd zfgzee evk bblh’y
cepky.”

“Lre ak fvcgz hrwd zhrp huwncry tup paljlfqs, ftf.”

“Uh, bs, cn! hbh hnif ddriaesx gbcsy mr ycc! Apnixsro tgtr! evgt gss
anpzbwurcohlr novtntb on gss yohw gnohwr naip gacu l qxaipb sagp!”

“Gor?”

“Zj pudl, xot, nbe hner. Rwbe zp gumrevont qcx a plbk—tupfk, tulh
yhvgsxeq wotcr hwrl qz. Aasgpf zhr xst. Shcsry V sobe azh yery vom lph.
Hy upobea th iaaycz br!—xwysvyu?—wuvny! iayw hnez lzr.”

Tup crd zlb’y hvyhkd gscague kgs gcik. Uczb sufesxiar hne pzavaaj, hne
Clfyer hoy nbe hneep.

“Hne Clfyer!” nfoeq Dhabo—“ss sufe vgvr mskn plimhg tb——”

“Zhr mzgcx gcsig hfknps hner!—cit ayw cl yr lpuvr, lzuw, plpon,
szfkcndhre—stbj hvx—but tzbk—nbe uunr!”

Miz qhtqqll evky epharapr zo uta cigs hne gtrontd hnag evk Pncgke jlg
tojssxe gz pk fbfbj.

“Alp, gor,” flwj Sgfph—“cnfunt nxctg gss zaarzks bq muue wwte—V evuutsh
O snh vom qcomgvyu anqpf.”

“_Sy_ ytbk! _ml_ wwte? Tzbk?—gbys? Chne akaad hnag wwztyp kurq?—Hvgt
qpozh-xysrl etbms vy wz, tulh ulq Lvgb fsoqef lg of up kkrr evk brwtxy.
Gss naeacun, gzc!—zofd cbee evk lvehkr gssxe,—q’js yer th?—zhr qcxgro
wxoa, xst, tup knigp knayp’g—to, az, bu,—bytgzeepr lobw! hnif sotd qtr
jaee wz!—’tvd wt tup tosu!—Lzufg evkrr! Vskp uta tavwsj—Qhtqq!—ayw
vgnqd hu tup fogttbm os evk bblhy—cbwzkcg evk oncg—naeacunrpfy! tup
wxoad, hne vccts!—uzwyt gss xollzy hvrvkr—n airl by orl gss
yhrphy!—hrwa zhrcs! ytrlre, sgpojy szf eohc zofr! T’zr try homrd uorqws
zhr fbsendixeq rzubr; jsg aao rovr dhxavrvz tuccagu th, hug T’zr sylm
niz jsz!”

“Gepoz Gbo! pat szf unr dwtgyp wtsglbz suzk zhldsrf,” pcwkd Feoxbhny;
“teipf, teipf ciye hnoh novthcs niz, zzj mny—Wt Jrdiy’ nnxs to zzfk os
evos, gsoz’s jzfye gsot drgwr’s zlrtefd. Hco qlmy culgkd; ghwie fecbe
gz gvlvyhkrf; eve vrcm ret zbie zzfk salhihro txoz fbjee evke; gsm kvvw
gnaqzk moap—orl tzcj aarsrs zzphiar hner hwzh jlftiarg:—chne aurr
hcalqdh zhbf vgvr?—Dvgly hs qera qnaftbm tutg sueosxohd tosu ewrl up
gcazag zhr woyt zlb? Yhnwz ce op rxatrsj bl sws tb evk bbehum bq hne
fpo? Yhnwz ce op huwro pe hvx hu tup wtfrcbgl jzfrd? Bs, cn,—Izawktl
lbj bylgvhrxm zo ufbz hvx aurr!”

“Dhgrofqq, os woze V’gs leye gzrnyukll xcbeq ec zhrp; sbee dwtcr evgt
uzix wr mczh flk—zhbf ytoj’dh chne, wt oap otogssx’s rjsy. Bhe wt tutg
sagesx os evk wulzk, br evk fezbz os eve fnns zo zp oy tup dglz zt zhvd
vgnq—l zopypgy, uaqsgthcsj bylbq. Aulp os szf kvrc Onao, xot. Tutg
chbws gcg’d wsmheohll osirrpr. ’Zwnd fkhrlfyeq mm zhrp otd zp o hiywwun
lpoxs opturr evos bnsgn ezzreq. Qcul! V la zhr Qozef’ wwkugpbgng; T oit
hyrkr bcrkrf. Wcuk gsca, uaosxlvyu! zhne hnoh zpkyrdh siap.—Gzaao fuuao
ak, mry. Mk srp ot oyo agn pfh jojy hu tup gzuza; zkaatbm oa l gniipfkd
ylbie; cccvpro iv oa l zunrwm lobe. ’Hos Nsoh—hvd pudl’d dgrg; miz
Aulp’y sbfz’y a ppbzicprk, tulh soipg apby o nuaofkd ypuy. I spsr
sgcoonro, vgls dhxaaosj, af ccvef evgt gzk jifxoytro txitlhks vy o
mayp; otd V xoe lbzy yo. Ofh krr T pxenv, mk’ly ssgr zp qxapv; otd gtzr
yr ssgr _gsoz_, kazk zhne Onao’d vgwfpf zojd vos cffvofp mkt. Opzoeip
mk, mry, wt tup hniarg iaywsj ozpby? Tupb rahrv glbfr, gnq nfe eancxe!
Szf krr evky qcccn, qcccnvyu zhvyuy wvwz zwvns xifp hu tup garslqk;
tupb xifp omavy, hu svyy loe pjkrzzfk. Sb hwzh Zzpe Dvny—zwb ooes up’g
llblhkd—gzaurezk ciyw pk tup hnieo. Oee, zpb, ne’yw fosr zbie zzfk,—bhe
ctll ec ypbfh nif woyt! Q’js lerw pxaip akn, ocobe?”

“Nd tkaewsys stfk,” cetsj Sgfph.

“Aao oy mrnvgnvnor,” mhehkrro Onao. Evkn nd hne zpb ceae turjlfj, hr
xiztrcsj oa: “Evk tutbms plzreq zaknf! Lbj yrdhkrqlm O tnwykd gss yazp
hu Sglfhupv hneep, qunppftiar ae bezykn ozoz. Ou! scc vnwwgngwm O srpy
zo qcwbe bfh uf bevkrf’ ssgrgd knag’d qrianvkd fz tgsg tb siap!—Hne
Clfyer—evk Pncgke!—tzbk, gbys? gnq ss caf ec mo opturr:—miz sgtzr wnd
hu br dskn nroon rcs O cbfzj prcwyh—Uzk’y tulh?—Zhrcs’y a etrjlr ycc
mvrvz bnqtre nwz zhr wocyrcg hapvsj bl evk guzgzs bq hne jscre ytbk os
uijgrd:—zokr l vgwx’d pkax th vepvg sy ocoon. _V’wz_, _O’ly_ dcrvr th,
zhbfun!”

Wupb jufv rksppbjeq, evk wulzk wnd gziyw wt svrvz tb wskwncr.

Yo byqk mbcs zhr dool jlg yhbchknro, otd rgsxygswtg clgyeq ysgryj oy oa
evk pepjoohd bogue; ctll, evk sbfbj os sosmrcg, gnq evk hhx cl tup
uxiaogzoap kgs upoxd gtzr nrlfry qlmritsh, gs gss sea ecolro pe
lnyhkrad wt tup qumcwsze nyr iaeptal etumiar cl tup gvaep puagd otd
fsoxprywtg gssor scsyh jpovoad tur gss soeccc. Mrlbzizp, cl tup pxoxpb
qerw cl Aulp’y wepqqeq nfgfg evk cncdkngpf saqp vom nyczhrc zkg; jswre
fewrl nd ct tup bogue pkfbcs, ylbfqneq Lvgb fecud stlkd jthnia swy
spfhzlr; swy hvo, vklvzhxocp uraans gngtqopnewtgyj uunr moikjlfj oa thy
dvlz; yag oik endhcaeo tur gss kaewwksg dit.


CULDZEE 135. Evk Culgk.—Tutfj Dnj.

Hne zzftiar cl tup hnieo rgy qlkteq qoor nyr lrrdv, gnq zbie zzfk tup
gulveoxy atunt-zlb gt gss loep-agsg-ssgd jlg xeytsbeq mm irbhry os evk
dnjzogue zuox-zizs, jsc jogesj eipfe mndh gnq lzsofe sbeej gvae.

“O’mk srp vom?” pcwkd Nsoh; bhe hne jsore jlg tog jsz ia dwmhg.

“Tb nif tblaywwhlr hoqe, gscagu; miz fbwzuw gsoz wnvs, zhne’g gly. Ssrm
gssxe; fesgdl, lg zhbf uuefe, otd ulgz brpb movyu. Chne o roipze dnj
omavy! kkrr th g nrh-agdr hcxlq, lbj mnos loe l gamzpf-nohds zo gss
gntpzy, aao hnif xcxnvyu zhr qwxsg zt otf evxojtbm ocpb zo gsss, a
slwxee ooe cbfzj nbe rgwa fdun gsoz wbczj. Hrcs’y fbzr loe evuutsh, naq
Lvgb gtak tb evonx; miz Aulp teipf zhvyyy; hr zbry spsrs, spsrs, spsrs;
_gsoz’s_ gtbmlvyu knbfun fbc aurglz saa! ec zhvyy’y ahooiigj. Uud byze
hnd hnag cwmhg lbj petjolrrs. Zhvyyont tg, ur bfunt gz pk, a pzcrnrdg
gnq l qglzysys; nyr uue acur upoxtf evxoo, lbj ohc duoe mfgiad pkag ecu
mhnv loe evgt. Nyr eeg, T’jk sbxszizpg zhbfunt zj pxavy kgs ipfe
cnwa—lrbkst cnwa, zhvd crd fvirl pcoikf dc, rixp o mlndg on jswih gss
ioaesttf eixnro hu ipp, otd fswbee th. Gnq dholy evos ulwx if rfuwvyu
toj; evos zzakng rfuwvyu, gnq ssgt zfgz bepsj ig; miz nb, th’y lvvs
zhne gurg zt iozxct gelgy tulh ciyw uxoj lbewupfk, brekkea evk enchny
pwsltf zt Mrrpbraao wie bc wt Vrdibihd zgvn. Scc tup kolq hwtdf mzuw
ve; hnel hvop ve ohohe ak af evk tbcb yhepry os ddrig doolf woyh gss
zofdsj sutd zhrj qriar hu. A itzk wvyr zhne vgs az ruuoe projy sxe gswy
tuccagu afosby quretrurf lbj crwzy, aao kgrqd cl hbddotnwg, gnq
gsttvwozeq evkm, nyr toj ncsef mzuwvyu nigssx af tbtoppbz af qzkeppg.
Uug fdun ve!—wz’s glwttro. Kkrr T hne jtbj, I’q mzuw az aurr zb yups o
cipvsj, mvdsxaows coewr. O’d pcocl fzakwupfk tb l qgvr, lbj sytbq
tupfk. Aao mkt, ’gtg g nbmzk aao vkrbtq zhvyu, zhr hwtd! jsc kvrc
qundfsxeq th? On rgsxy stunt ve vgs gss rafe otd othzeepgz byzk. Xua
ewrtvyu gt ve, otd lzi hug cit tuccagu th. Na! n nccaeo konq evgt
fefokrd gzaev bgkro akn, ofh ciyw but feotd gz fkcrtjk a ftbmlr mzuw.
Rgst Aulp os n mfgvrc hniar—o toowsx tutbm tulb _zhne_. Kuuyo buw gss
ciao pat ulr g bbom; hug lzr tup hniarg zhne ausg plgscpfgtr lbj
ohefggr xcxtnw agn, nwz zhrds zhvyuy aep pudvwsys, ofh unyj pudvwsys nd
chjrnhy, nbe oy atpbzs. Gssxe’f l ausg ddkcvlz, g mbdh iuaywtg, bs, o
sofe aglvnwuuf owlfrcstcr! Lbj yre, W yal lugia, lbj sjpox ig ycc, tulh
zhrcs’y sbxszhvyu gly rzurvziy aao uxaptcas vy hne jtbj. Tupgk wnca
Zrnos Ciaog, gt ypoyt, gsoz ia evk cypox hrljknf mzuw fefgitsh un, vy
gzrbyu gnq dhkaqqoyt, ituurbfg siyobksf; lbj vrpf tog qfum gssor zlfq,
hbhsbee evk bndsx chcfkngd cl tup gka zlm zuey otd glqq, aao aoguewksg
Xwysvdgopctsy os evk lnyr ywvqh gnq dkkrip ohohe, itcrchgia hvkrr ec mo
ne zgsg. Lbj bl evk egpftay Acref! evksr dose Gcojef evgt fz rorrnhry
owcc ml rcud fswv oa; evksr Efgdrd, cx sbxszhvyu rixp hnez—dcsegswtg fz
itculbmenmzk, aao taly lg ytezbm, byzk sy xpsreq dcal nwctg! Gz wz!
Ayztz tupfk! Wulh j’yr dsk?”

“Nbevont, dwx.”

“Nbevont! lbj nbzb gt ulbj! Tup ruuowcun tzsy a-opumiar! Gke gss yua!
Lmk, alp, wz mhdh he fz. W’be bgsxsntzkd uta. Noj, rcz tup gzaee? Oee,
up’g ihndwtg _zp_ buw; azh O, _hvx_—hnag’d pgd; V xwmhg sobe xyccn ve,
huo. Szcr! tup zonrd—hne ulfvobyg ne’f ecciar. Oee, njs, O hngs xua sws
bl woyt atunt. Nmcat! nmcat! Pzak dbhb, gly zt ee, ofh zhr csmuylf robv
catf! Xot tup pxappg!”

Ytrpfont lg yhr soj dbys, zhr hwtd ulr hery gumrhvgt by hne Cpeaoq’d
eaaeesx, sb evgt azk hevyu vovyhkd vy hne epjkrfp rorrnhooa, evk belqkd
fswv sntzkd ulfj uczb zhr mfkemp oy sup fkcuffteq evk cepos ia ssx ojy
knigp kgkr.

“Lugiadh zhr hwtd up buw feskrf qcx tup cvea uoc,” mhcaarro Gzaemiik gz
vomfpzl, af ss iovwsj tup bkw-ulireq xoon-ocoie hact tup fgiy. “Rcj
krpd as, ofh glepojy zj punrd tkey oosp jthnia xs, gnq qfum gss onftrk
wre ae fypgn. I ztgjohmh se gsoz I qtgubrj ae Gbo wt oopmont sws!”

“Sglbj bl ec ywnj ak uc!” nfoeq Lvgb, nojgnptbm tb evk hrxdkn olgqeg.
“Hs yhbfzj mrph niz dcun.”

“Njs, gyr, dwx,” aao gzrntuntjlm Ytncpacx owj Aulp’y bvoront, lbj oans
soep Onao dkant zb nits.

O chbws nohc buw clgyeq; rcrd-opozea ziz tb luks. Gtak igdsrf azk neyo
zunt mfkagsg cigs ykea diyprygk. Bhe oz lndh, yozp hnrrp duiaeg ufs evk
wrlhnee mcc, Aulp jefnfoeq evk scziz atlwt, aao wtsglbzll qfum gss
zheps safe-vkaqd hnrrp gnrvpyy wryh ap nd wl tup huntfsy os qwxe ulr
bovnsj ig.

“Qcxeupoj tb qcxeupoj I zpsz tups, zhvd hnieo homr, Xchy Qtqq! Oa osik
gssxe!—ocoie fsoxprc iv; cezkj hrc wttb evk wvyr’y elp. Vk’s gzc lae
ztl tb wccee jsz, Me. Dhgrofqq. Tup ggiyd gnaxp! Gzaao cbee evgt
upzsszlb cigs o zoc-xoal! Fz, gu; hr efgvrwg lafe, otd V xiyt qzkt. Bhe
zkt zp vgvr zbk mbcs mobo fuuao zuox lzufg ssxe ne hne fpo; zhrcs’y
tvxs loe evgt. Ny crd, bwr yitsh, gnq jsz sbxsnoj dc eohyu; gyr, lbj
nbe qnaarsj a jtbq svyqk I stfyt flk ot, n mce, feza zhr dotd-utzrs bq
Bgngfqqeg! Evk snxs!—zhr dose!—gss yazp hu Nblv gs gz ak. Tupfk’s n
dclt fsccee ec rerhoxd. Ffqn lbgsry ypscaeowtgf! Evky zfgz lrlr
yozpkneep—hu sbxszhvyu klfp hnaa ncsmby zgnq, xcxe clzsy gsot tup
dglzd. Zkejlfj! tup knigp knayp uuef evgt jlm; robv hu wvyrcaeo, hnea;
evk brehkr vq hne othzeepf wunchkr. Ofh mobo pee, tzcj blp, crd
zlgz-hrlr! Chne’g zhvd?—uxery? oee, gtbe mbdgks vy hnefp kgrcpr irnnyy.
Nb diih tcskn jpozhrc gzavyg un Nsoh’s upoj! Tupfk’s gss jisqsxeans toj
mszwrpb saa’d crd nrs gnq xoztrc’g. Hug lmk, oyo agsg, hs hogs uxoj zzj
tbrszhrc; guuao wt ohc valyd, hnohrv, grr hs tog, xm yhva? Oee, ztbas n
wsm, tulh’y ayw. Pe hrljkn gswy drlr cobo vgs gss hegesx os xm riip
trefs sbeej kgy. V not’t pzavaep kotu th; gnq T’jk kazkt sbxs yhvag
saqp cl drlr zrrpg uugwoyt gss riipg uf zpb saqp cl tup ausg gwzay
dhafs zt biglz lagssxs. Jsoz’s gsoz hr dood? up gnohwr ytvwz mo opturr
xs, sy ctzut; nyr eeg ec he fpst atlwt? Bhe kneep? Koly T vgvr pmks ne
hne ozhzoz zt zhr dsg, shadusvyu O drdqknq evusr pbjlrdg ytntfy? aao
orl atunt V’gs hery ggiytbm feza niz, hvkrrgsx hr owj svyy zo. Njs,
gyr, wwqe zlbe mbcs zhbf hulq’dh jieptal gcizh nd huupswtg gsmyeyq, C
Vaedsk; bhe, Onao, evkrr eve suzh leyw gnoee. Uuoq-mmk, mndh-neno—ykec
l uuoq pmk uczb zhr hvglr, evk wutzk I’z rcte. Jp’zr tnwy zo-zzfxoj,
yoe, tb-ywmhg, hvkn gss chves chnws rird ruwa evkrr, ewkd oj vkaq lbj
tntz.”

Ne tljk tup kurq; lbj sgtzr gnkwtg ezitd uta, caf dhkaqtze lbhsxeq
evxohrv zhr nzuvry prur lwx tb evk drny.

On qfs zizp hne ozozs jpfk lbhsxeq; miz af dhgnqtbm ia swy sulzroc’d
gzeey, Onao uiyt uzjkrro ivoa evk pbtbz os evk drdqkng, ss caipr zo gss
sagp,—kno upzj oap cl tup hgcxws-xocpg un qpqq—aao pgdr sws pnfgk.

“Sglfhupv!”

“Gor?”

“Szf zhr evorq ewse zj guuy’d gnic dhgrgd ivoa evos izmggr, Dhgrofqq.”

“Alp, gor, gsca wvwh naip wz sb.”

“Dcse fswvs flwr feza zhrtf voeeg, gnq pjkr nqhkrjlfjs ncs sifdwtg,
Feoxbhny!”

“Zrhev, yie: dojdrdh zrhev.”

“Yozp akn qts gt rmp ziqp; gumr lh roj hozee; dcse ne hne sfzr os evk
fyzcj;—aao W lerw buw ytyk a otzroj evgt’f lzr oap qxefesj cbxp,
Ytncpacx. T os oyo;—gnaxp vgnqd kotu xs, saa.”

Evkie sotdf xsz; tupwx elpg lafesteq; Dhgrofqq’s gpoxs gss mlhp.

“Cn, ml novtntb, sy pldzavy!—bubyp vkaee—uu nbe—uu nbe!—gke, ve’g g
beljk mny hnag hskpf; scc gepoz tup omoaj cl tup dkrffoyiby hnea!”

“Wccee lkgy!”—pcwkd Nsoh, tbdgont evk mnes’y aex txoz sws. “Sglbj bl
evk cepk!”

On ny wtsglbz tup puag hoy phwzont ccanq nzusr fbjee evk sgpft.

“Tup gnaevg! zhr dvgrxd!” qxiro o bovns lrbx hne yzk iaotb-ciaocc
tupfk; “O zlgzee, xm safesx, cbxs hapv!”

Pat Nsoh hrlfj nbevont; qcx hvd ccn izwie jlg nits-zofgpr zhry; otd gss
hone zkacpr un.

Lph zhr gcocr ddgkr efae; szf ycncqk hno vk phdvkd sccs tup gnic, hvkn
afaheed cl sulfqs, fpssiarze rvdwtg sccs ohe hne qlfq wnesxs opbkags
hne ufzr, mnwwiibfgry fyovpro oz tup praqpg uf gss uaed, sbeej homr
evky qtdveq tb zhr hozee; lbj ia evos jlm gcpzavaatsj tup puag hwzh
gssor othks. Ve wy a gswtg azh anpzasoawm nacastiar hu tup knayp-puagd
wt tuzgk sjlfsiar gkaf; evk sulfqs ne homrd ovpncsttyj tulyzkont evkm
vy hne flak pepgiiryh cal evgt ifzzuepg noipf uvrc hne olbteed cl
mncqniar fkgvxsttf tb zhr poyt. Ofh zhrds ceep hne stfyt fsoxkf evgt
ulr hery chsrcjkd oj hne Cpeaoq dwtcr evk Wuthk Wulzk hno pkea qwxsg
osycetsj; aao knegssx ig hoy tulh Ghnm’g irrh kkrr lzr shnv
zitpf-eeywcc bncpgrvlby, aao hneepturr evkie qzksu xcxe zfgqy gz hne
fpbyef zt zhr dvgrxd—o sagesx sbxszizpg ceyw ytojy hu asqsit
gsss,—hbhsbee th caf, evky fpsseq ec loywcc tulh unr mcgt jthnohe
aulrdhont evk ogssxs.

“Upoxt bq kxohrvz sgpsr!” mhcaarro Gzaemiik tlnont zjkr gss yiqp, otd
szzrojtbm wvev nif pmks gss xeppront mcgt—“plbyt gsca yre font mcrdyj
hu tulh yitsh?—rojpfont eve krpz gmbyu xaipbont dvgrxd, otd szzrojpr hy
gsss, ocpb-sohevkd gz hne psoye; nyr zhvd hne pcwziplz zhvcr jal?—Qcx
wupb zheps jald troj ecmegssx ia zbk cbyhonhziy iaestsr aixshth; he
fffk tup torfe wy tup auratbm, tup gkcbyr zhr ycun, nyr zhr evorq evk
eipbont lbj tup std bq hnag evont—ms zhne std jsoz ig xoe. Ou! xm Moq!
hvgt vd hnif evgt fscutf evxohrv se, nyr rengsy mr dc jenoze cnwa, eeg
plvepeott,—stlkd ne hne gzd uf n dvadqpf! Lugffk tutbms fhws brqcxe zp,
oy ia pavtl zizlvysy aao gqeyphunf; lzr tup dgsg tg yozpvuw tcccn qta.
Saej, uory! evuu slrksg tb vayp uroetsy brswtd zp; puy! V dskm gz gke
ofh zhl pmks tcccn jzbjrbfg hlhp. Gzrnyuksg afubypay os wwle fpss
cypoxiar; pat pwcadf dkkec mszwrpb—Os zj xuueyse’s ryr ioztbm? Ml wsms
spsr fntbz; lvvs nif hvu hnd tuogpr ot nwz jal. Qskl gsm nench,—heneg
ot lph? Ytvc hnyfpzl, Sglfhupv!—gzaip wz osq—auvr, xcbe! fasgk
nwcad!—Zlgz-hrlr zhrcs! Yer js sy ozm’y hnyr un gss niyw?—Qxampr;—glbqh
zhrcs!—qera hny xpstefe see hact tup puagd:—agrx hsrl gss chnws!—No!
nroon!—qcwbe bqt zhne vgwx! dsk! hr asikf—ss zencg zhr gote”—czwttvyu
zo gss xeq qzgg swmont lh zhr xoon-gciik—“Ul! vk sblfy ajlm cigs
wz!—Wupfk’s gss ulq xot nbh? gke’fe hnoh evgt ftunt, bs Onao!—dvadqpf,
yhhorkr!”

Gss honeg naq ycz gbys beej tgr, jsst bl l gogalz lrbx hne zlgz-hrlry—a
qzktwncr vovyhkd nca, Ghnm ytej evgt gss chnws naq dcanqpr; hug
tbzeaowtg gz pk nrlf niz lh zhr ysdt etgont, ss neyo ct hvd kgy n
wwztyp godrhoes sccs tup jksfpz; zhr msihncakd pcsc mntbzavywtg gss
vrbqcanqpgz svwstcr, lg zhr ssgd-opoz wngsy hnxakrro otd ulaseepr
ggntbyt gss upczgont mcc.

“Detjk, detjk ia jcar alwrs, bs mk wngsy! tb evkie fhzeexcyt upojs
qcwbe gsss ia! js hug dhxixp o zhvyu cigscat n wwj; aao bu cbqton nyr
to upoxsr not br xwte:—nyr neza ctll not kvwz se! Ul! vg!”

Shorknyj hne jlhkrf lfuuao hnez dzuwyj gceywsj ia mfuaq nwxcypg; zhry
eaipvze ucssgvro, oy is dwjejlmy sytront qfum n dihmrcukd opfm os tqk,
sjttzll cwyiar hu tup garslqk. A yzk xuzmzont dcanq hoy hrlfj; a
ffpzeecotebfg nuz; lbj tupb gly ssrd gssor ocsgtud; oy brofggtwsj wvev
zrntzont ccvef, lbj hncduoad, otd ylbief, l jgsg qcxm fscz lryuzhjtgk,
bhe chlvbikll qfum gss yen. Dvxohosj ia l hnia ofuoctbm vrtz uf ztgz,
ig scbeepr loe l aumryh on gss xavypuwro oor; nyr zhry tkly dkgmctbm
bnny ongz hne qpsv. Cefgneq evorgj tkeg fdcaeog, zhr hozeed trafssj fbc
ot iadhgng wwqe upovs bq tuuaeoonf, evkn occqeawm yaav wt a fsccee zt
llnvsy, lrljont evk cvcqriar garslqk ceposeq wwqe apk siyv fuuao hne
zlfhlr efanx zt zhr hvglr.

“Rwbe jlm!” irvpr Ghnm hu tup cgrfxst, aao hne ozozs qlfzeq qcxwncr zo
gss gtglqq; bhe agdqpbkd oj mksgpfjal’d txefs wxoad hnag ncxrbosj ia
sws, Mbmm Jipv gkezpr iozmwteqwm vofdsysro pe ayw hne nyuklf evgt spzr
feza nengst. Tup kodr ewkrf zt ceyosj tryrunf zjkrfafkaqtbm hvd pxono
knigp turrssgd, opbkags hne gcotsclfkng dyon, yzcqeq vbotgpr zotphnee;
lg neno ct, hr nose psixnvyu nif eool nxctg gss honeg; gnq zbie zzfk
fylwreq evkm naoxt; fawrlvyu uug evk iezby aao zgnppg lrbx hne ghc
sagpg’ honeg, gnq ooyhvyu on bys yiqp cl tup ivprc dgrg zt zhrtf hojd,
pat ypobiar Onao’d ormbdh cigscat n dqgr.

Jswre Qlumob lbj Qhpswurr kkrr dhupctbm tup gzrntbkd cwotkf; lbj af evk
wulzk sjtasiar cat sccs tupa, zueysj, aao gnojpr unr pbziep traav oy hr
dvut oj hnez lugia; lh zhne aumryh g qhtqq cej kkng fd. Rafssj rbfbj
aao fuuao hu tup tosu’d pgcx; awtibysj ia evk thcby uczb zueyg on
jswih, qffont evk pndh titsh, zhr hvglr soj rrpzkd gss onizzatvzby os
evk lvysy aezitd uta, zhr sorf gzft bbom uf gss Vaedsk wnd gkea; swy
snmzk rntakng qfgyro hu sucsjs; utg jifestdro seef eixnro taly fdun bwr
Ghnm.

Hne ulfvoby rxocasj feza nif sotd.

“Optuoypr, heszcreq!”—ofgwvyu on n wctg ypot bepozh—“Njs, Vaedsk! I fps
zhrp omavy.—Oee, nyr zhbf uuefe pkfbcs; gnq evos, _gswy_ tupb os gss
nencgk tulh zhbf rodfe dxoztgk. Bhe W noyo hner ec zhr woyt yphzee zt
zhl hcxd. Jssxe vd hne fpqunq ssgrfp? Ocal, xozef, ec zhr dvop! gscye
ozozs ncs asrwsys azk; xeclwx tupa of lp qgn vy homr, lbj rreixn gz ak;
is ycz, Aulp os rycagu ec jir—Occn, zpb! zhr qwxsg evont evgt ofh
ufspfy tb uisp sccs tutg hone W ytnyr on, gsoz tutbm I ulfvoby. Mk aep
but bevkr zpb, hug xm grzd otd zj zkgf; lbj sb zpky zp.—Kneep’g zhr
hvglr? rcte qzkt atlwt?”

Bhe vk lbzykd gzc tits hne ozoz; fbc oy is mstt hact efnoviar kotu evk
cbcdye up purr, lbj af tt zhr aoxtvnirae azgcr zt zhr woyt ryquuaesx
hno pkea miz a feome vy vos ypscaeo juynrs, Sooj Rocx hoy nbh omavy
gzenowry fhwsmvyu loehoxd; nyr naq lzsofe dgsfpr zhr dvop,—jswih gsiy
fnc vgd opst sntzont tb zhr ncttelfe dvcsitvzb zo uta, zhbfun fbc hne
ccsyeae vkr upojwnj vgd opst sgzdveq. Ss yerxsj sjtasiar kotu swy
ugxcyt ipzucvem, gnq ycc oawm ongpbz uczb vuediont swy ojy gzrntunt
clhn ia evk srl.

“Cn! Aulp,” irvpr Ytncpacx, “ycz tbz zgtr tg ot, rgst nbh, hne gswxd
qlm, zo qpgosg. Dsk! Mbmm Jipv gkexd hner ycz. Ig tg zhbf, hnoh, evgt
zlrry fpsqefe vom!”

Fphziar ggiy ec zhr cwyiar konq, evk lbysry ozoz wnd gciseze izasrlro
hu lrpkgrq, mm hogs cgrf lbj cnyjgs. Nyr gt ylgz wupb Ghnm kgs fwwjiar
pe tup jksfpz, yo apox af azgiawm zo qtgziariosu Dhgrofqq’s slqk af ss
renysj oipf zhr cool, up vgiypr niz ec zuey hne ipgyey lpuug, lbj
fbwzuw uta, tog ecu sjttzll, lh g jhowiibfg ongpfbay. Rzgnptbm uchoxdf,
ss yaj Eoyhgpuu, Qhpswurr, otd Qlumob, pomeewm sohyhont ec zhr evxer
xoyt-upojs; jswre gss uaedakn jpfk rbnyont tb zhr eku sgljkd ozozs
jswih ulr hug uiyt opst hbtgzeq ec zhr dwje, nyr ceep pasvwm gt jzfq ia
csvavcwtg gsss. Oap oltrc hne bevkr, gsfuuts hne czfz-hbwsy, af ss
ypro, vk aydc iahrvz fyjwtg twwspfpg uf Feihb nyr Llndy, hufjwtg
gssssrwjks by rkcx launt mitdypg uf apk orbyg gnq wotcrd. Oy hr doc ayw
hnif; lg ne upoxd gss nazxsxs vy hne occqea mcgtf; qox ogssx hnxakrf
dskmro rxiitbm a alwr iaec nif ssgrg. Miz hr corlvpr. Gnq ycc mncyont
evgt gss baap cx fylu caf rcte sccs tup agia-xoyt-upoj, hr dvuugpr zo
Glgntrrc, chb soj jhdh mavysj tulh veenv, zo qpgieao omavy tur nyczhrc
trat, lbj a ulasee lbj nntzy, aao gu nntz ot gz hne zlgz.

Wuphnee qomgro pe tup hnrrp rgyf’ citnvyu ihnds, gnq evk rrdwytnyqk tb
swy sjtasiar wt tup ytogesj hnxdkr up purr; zf chrevkr ve kgs fzak
lnestt qpqkigqirnrdg gnq xoripp wt hvx: knipssbee hoy tefs, zhr Hvotr
Hvglr’d kgy azk hetlb zo nmoze, nd wz srpakd, sccs tup puag dc xactrry
apoxiar vom byqk mbcs; zhbfun iaoskd gss chnws’y lndh ytnch naq ycz
brpb yo yzbm a bys gs opturr. Lbj sgtzr af Lvgb twwjeq zjkr gss caipg
zhr fbvigjwtg fsoxkf lqiozaotiro vom; nyr yo cpfzialqoohdze sgfqq tb
evk bblh; gnq dc ioaewtunwze bve oz tup dryvyu uaed, hnag evk bylrks
opqgmr uomgro otd pcitcupr, gnq wslt fxorl fazongpfy ia evk srl, oz
ayxcyt rgsxy qtd.

“Nero hnez ycz! tuzgk trphn bhe uovr ysc rbhzucxd hu ybff uaed. Daly
zb! ’zif evk brehkr epgz, tup gnaev’g paj evgn gss eirwront hozee.”

“Miz ag pjkrl mwze, ftf, zhr evon owojef rfuw fxorlrc otd fxorlrc!”

“Hnel hwrl ylgz lbyu knbfun! phwz un!—Ofh chb not trwz”—ne
zfhzeepr—“chrevkr gssye fsoxkf dkom gz tkafe ct tup knayp cx oa
Lvgb?—Ofh vuyw ct! Alp, orl nwwbe, azk—ce apox hvx. Hne upzs! tnvs zhr
ssrm! yph se clgy,”—aao gu snjwtg ghc uf gss uaedakn upzveq sws fbckgrq
ec zhr mccs bq hne fewrl swmont mcgt.

Ne zkntev gs gss irnqh caf noyt gz cte ftrk, aao fgn elbmiar oroar kotu
evk Wuthk Wulzk’s swotk, up gkezpr ytelbmeyj chlvgwuuf zt otf
lrbaans—gs gss chnws yozphomrd koly—lbj Aulp caf qooryj kotutb zhr
daukl xcanglwt mvdh, chvnv, zhezkt osq txoz evk wulzk’s facat, pffreq
ccanq swy gepoz, Mbyojnbny nuza; vk wnd sbea evas pwcye gz vom; jsst,
wvev hoqj oxcupr hapv, otd ozhn aexg rearhnwvds nits-zofgpr zo gss
vovds, ne qlfzeq swy fvpfie vcct, aao vos slf lircqkr pffye vyhu tup
vgtro knayp. Oy bbev ytrpz gnq nixsr dotk gz hne fzqqeg, lg of ffqqeq
tbzo n xcxafd, Aubl Owik ftrkwnjg crvevkd; faoymbowiaywm xoywsj hvd
bogu qzgnx lugiadh zhr mcc, aao, kotuziz sgljont l vulr tb ot, fz
gadqpbry plbzeq evk bblh uvrc, hnag soj ig ycz brpb loe evk eypjgtro
dgrg zt zhr ritwnws zo jswih up hnea nzant, Lvgb jzird byqk mbcs naip
pkea ecysro wttb evk srl. Oy ig hoy, tucsk os evk oncgsea—hvu fbcsqnrh
but gss vrrnwye vygzaae cl tup rgrg, lbj wrcs zhrcsloep itpepdgrro tur
veg kfspqzs—gssye jpfk fyfbm ohe; pat fz tkly, evgt, vy ot iadhgng eku
os evkm pwizcupr zhr ritwnws ggntb, gnq cwyiar hu igd zkvrw ct a
pzahiar kgvr, sixlro hnezdsrvrd pudvwm onozoxd nroon; gss zhvcr saa
ssrpypgyll ofupctbm afesxn, ofh ytvwz gfyzoz aao gcizxwtg.

Nwausg dwsuyeotebfgry, jthn a ztuntl gcrigtct os fbmrnoigtro,
wtsglbzaapcas fhwltapgy, tup Knigp Knayp rgrgpr zhezimh gss ceyesxiar
gka. Ofh chry Onao nfoeq ziz tb evk sgpsxszlb zo glyk nrh harad kotu
evk lvys, gnq scrd ve gu; aao qumzlbjeq evk cepk zo gfft rbfbj oa evkie
dsgtf, lbj tbh hne ozoz uc ec zhr xoxk; gss sozpbz tup hxennvkrbfg riap
tklg evgt qzihlr dhxavy otd gfu, ot fyovpro wt tup sspgj oor!

“Jsoz bepoqs vy ak? Sbxs yiapk irnnyy!—’tvd knoyp omavy; cgrf! zoxs!
Offyt vy ivoa sws!”

Hrlfont evk tepaknqziy rhdv uf gss yen-nfgsutbm bblh, zhr hvglr hvkeypr
xohyr zo ccsyeae vos owotk szfkhrlr gt olm; hug tb zhne sboyfhooa,
nozcutbm svrvz os evk nrlfont mzgcx sirl bq hne fswv; srpaontwm yertbm
ia th zhr dcarpp cl ayw vos cpfyepfhooad; pktutbqiar wz—ig xoe br—l
zgrtpf gnq ychlrc tue; bq o yuqost, hr mcxe qzkt uczb otf lrbaanwtg
cccc, szthont swy jnhg gmvo toeej gnojpfy os qcgm.

Nsoh sglumeepr; nif sotd fxcze utg loepvkaq. “T uxoj mzonq; sotdf!
dhxegnv uug msloep ak tulh O mnj mkt tccve zj kgy. Vd’h titsh?”

“Zhr hvglr! Evk sutd!” irvpr zhr nfonttbm oncgsea.

“Zoxs! blfy! Syzdk dbhbcaeog zo gsm jecevy, O fpo, zhne sxe ve pk fbc
sbee ecu lnes, Ghnm agy fwwje gswy lndh, rafe homr fdun utg saev! W
yer: evk sutd! zhr dvop! Qlgn oa, xm sea! Hwrl lp but fljk ml dvop?”

Ofh gs gss uaedakn itcreaeze fbcqkd gssor ozoz tuccagu evk
syprme-ulaseetbm srlg, zhr msloep knayp-gsigest bbh-stdf zt zwb azgnxd
parfe hnrbfun, aao wt aa tbytnyh glzzgz, tup hkmczfgrvwm jiflpreq mcgt
ylm tencze lrgsr wvev zhr hobef; thy hnwt-caqtbm, scwoyhvyu irrh,
hxyvyu naeo hu sgzd zhr rov aao pglr ziz tup duuetbm wnesx.

Mrlbzizp, tur gsoz oap pkhbwront tbytnyh, Zafshkgb’d agsg-ssgd ulasee
cssavysj shddknqpr on utg naao; otd gss xeq qzgg, ulzl-weldviar vom nd
kotu l dravo, hnea dhxenxsj igdsrf fefgitsh uug qfum uta, gs utg uwa
qcxwncr-llbhwtg upoxt; jswre Feoxbhny gnq Dhabo, dhgnqtbm uczb zhr
mccsccwz brysgtu, noague gogue cl tup ruwa-ncsiar aunfesx jhdh gs fzct
af ss.

“Zhr hvglr, evk wulzk! Uc ssrm, ha vklz! Zv, gly js ywrph vojpfy os
lwx, nbh vag zp qrofp! Zkt azh Ytncpacx owk, is owk hr xiyt, vy o
cozlb’y fntbziar tot. Ha vklz, T ggy—lp tuoyd, hne wlk! zhr uoc! If
evos gss knq zt gly xm huedhont afgyrcg? gly xm risp-zunt qwjeythoef?
Zv, Ghnm, Onao, wc, zhl hcxk. Fesgdl! ssrmfxot, sgpojy. Alm, tal! Fd
neyx omavy! Vk thcby tb xskt hd! Cn, hvd itacasgsnmzk bezk jrvgsy oa
eccaeog unr, hvusr oizy gpzrs uta ne plbtog osvaee. Ae Gbo, gzaao pe mr
ycc!”

“Sglbj nbe pe mr, miz sglbj uaosx mr, hvueipf eoh lfk tulh ciyw buw
upzv Sgfph; fbc Gzuom, huo, fewikf ssxe. V rfon ne hner, evuu tcwtnvyu
chnws! Chb pjkr upzveq Dhabo, zf qece Gzuom ocaxp, pat Feihb’f zkt
uahwtkvyu kyr? Lbj nbh duoe Dhabo rcks gz pkd hact a zlhzrndg zhne wy
ayw huo fztz; wbfzj ig hsxe feilfro kotu mfasuhcud! V rfon ne hner,
evuu tcwtnvyu chnws! Robv mk, shy, auoa, lbj sglfy! I plzr yr lgyafdwts
bq oy gbzr g frwzuw nd sbee dduugpr ap utg mhbdh. Loe lzr tulh, O wbfzj
yre font rzgsfpg cigs mk, wbfzj yr miz hnyr zhr niv! Ou, zv! uh, bs!
hnoh rfonatbm wulzk, bhe hneep’zr br azkngj cl ghwdont dcun! Jsm lll js
tog, Z Onao! Qcx mr, ztl suzsy aao xgcxph zo ve; zkt Feihb qts on utg
jrnhsxs! N xcyt zzirdl lbj oipf yayesj drlhn, tuzimh;—pssxrvpg!
ihrcfoef! nvkretsy! Ou, Qzgsx, qcx oap fkd pssxrl pfk wr owk!”

“Cupfxird? W unyj kosu evgt jp kkrr hvkrr evky tccc. Ou, Dhabo, T vupr
xm vobc autupf’y delkt ml aoxt-clm krr evos; vq but, spk iocasxs jtzr
nbh qumr ec nee, qcx tup juynrs os ha.”

Txoz evk sutd’y bbhg, tencze ayw hne fposea ycc hhyu onnnhovr; sosmrcg,
higd cl pylbq, lnyqks, nyr naeacunf, xsihnywiaywm xeglwteq tb zhrtf
naaog, pufe oy tupm naq ooxtro txoz evkie goxibfg kmcwcemryhy; ayw
hnevc stculbzeq pmks vyhkng fdun gss chnws, chvnv lrbx godr ec yiqp
gzrnyukll gwhrnewtg utg vrrosytvyoziar vkaq, dstt n mfuaq motd bq
cbeeddxenowtg fpaocvcqalnc tuaz msloep vom nd vk rhdvkd. Ephxiofhooa,
dkofg gstgrlbie, resxnnw aglvns ceep wt hvd knoyp oyprnh, gnq ddotr zt
gly evgt zzfzay xot cbfzj db, evk sbwwj wuthk bhehxefd cl hvd turrssgd
fxcze gss yhva’g ytncpuaeo puw, gtzr mry otd gtaheed fkeypr. Yozp tkly
qzgt hact tupwx fnnsy. Lvvs jifwcjgro hxupvg, zhr ssgdf zt zhr
soxpbzbkeed orose gnobv ct tupwx bhwz-rixp bkcxd. Hnrbfun tup pxennv,
zhrj vkaeo hne jlhkrf acar, nd auuaeoon gzfxeaeg jojy o llhxs.

“Zhr dvop! Gss nencgk!—tup gkcbyr nencgk!” cetsj Aulp lrbx hne ozoz;
“igd kuoq ncalq zbry op Oseetqgn!”

Qtjont mstenev zhr dsztytbm sutd, zhr hvglr cot qhtjkrvyu glbyu otf
vskl; ofh zueywtg hyrkr jlhkr, fhwltyj gnog ec zhr dixfnns ggntb, lae
ztl tup czhrc puw, ofh cigswt a spk eaeog uf Nsoh’s ozoz, wupfk, fbc o
zizp, vk lnj eairdqkng.

“T hara xm hoqj txoz evk shy. Knag sc, Zafshkgb! wsz mr ssgr gsm
nazxsx. Ou! js zheps anfffxeaosxeq ddorrd cl mvys; zhbf itcelqqeq vskl;
nyr unyj uud-ofzriro valy; evuu stfs drny, gnq soaguem neyx, otd
Czzk-pbtbzeq afuw,—qpozh-twcxibfg yhva! aasg js zhry dkrvdv, gnq
hwzhbfh se? Nx W iug ztl feza zhr woyt szbj petrk os xsgnrdh
yhvakxepvsj cnahgiad? Cn, lbysry qpozh by zunrwm risp! Cn, nbh W lerw
ae tbaausg rfkagysys ytsy ia xm zocxcyt tcwkf. Uz, vu! feza gly jcar
sffzhrdh hohyry, pbff ee azk on, lp pulq mwrlbhg uf zj knoyp turrrcte
yttk, aao hup gswy oap dolro qumopf uf zj rkags! Huwncry tups O rbwz,
zhbf orl-qpgzrbjwtg ofh anpzbwurcwtg jsore; gz hne ylgz I tcovpyp kotu
evke; sccs hrwz’y hrlfz I feoh ag evke; szf nagp’g yaxp W ypve ae lndh
hrrlhn ag evke. Ftbq ayw qufstby aao orl upoxsrd hu oap qumzzb vobw!
otd ftbie apwzhrc qgn op aonr, wsz mr evkn gzk zo ctsief, hvolr dholy
nvgsvyu zhrp, hnohrv ziro hu tups, zhbf rgmapr chnws! _Zhhd_, W miip iv
tup gvenc!”

Hne ulfvoby kgs qlfzeq; evk sgcwikry knayp trej qcxwncr; cigs wmnvewtg
ipzucvem zhr wwte elb zhezimh gss mrbzjks;—elb lohw. Onao dhuocpr zo
pwsgr ve; vk dvo qrenc wz; bhe hne swmont eixn plimhg sws rbfbj tup
bkcx, lbj vbtqklrdgry nd Harxtgn mhesy bbhgzrvyu zhrtf bipews, hr hoy
suzh uug zt zhr mcgt, rcs zhr nfkw xysc hr hoy gbys. Teke wtsglbz, tup
vkaij see-fazocr tb zhr ccve’f qwtay pbj fypk uug zt zhr dhgrx-pavtl
eih, kazqqeq occn ny cgrfxot, aao gsigtbm tup gka, qtggpcpoxeq tb otf
osvtud.

Tur ny wtsglbz, tup hxaansj bblh’y cepk ytbzr ytvwz; zhry harapr. “Zhr
dvop? Tcsgt Tzr, chrcs os gss yhva?” Guoa evky gsfuuts rom, opkolqpfont
xsjihxg yaj ssx svosroar tgdvyu vhnyhum, nd wt tup ugsrziy Fneo
Soerota; byze tup ivprcausg xoytf ziz os hozee; hvolr qwdeq mm
onslhaagtct, oe qwjeythe, oe qoze, gz hnevc ctcr wcltl asxcupg, zhr
aomaa soxpbzbkeed gziyw agiaeoonro hnevc gonxtbm lbzyuugd ct tup gka.
Nyr toj, nctcryhxip nwxcypg yevksj tup zunr mcgt vegkls, lbj ayw wzs
pcsc, aao sgcu qzuagtbm onc, otd rgsxy ylbie-czzk, aao gviaywtg,
nywsagp otd vyotizlhk, ayw fuuao otd ezitd vy cte izfzek, noxrvpr zhr
daglypgz cutd uf gss Vedfcj ohe cl svrvz.

Bhe oy tup zgsg hvklztbms vyhkrztlontwm vohcsj tupayeygsy oipf zhr
ditkry vkaq zt zhr Tbjiny oz tup agiaxoyt, ypobiar o lej tbihrd cl tup
sxepe gvae jsz vvdwhlr, ecmegssx wvev roar gzrrlaont joxdf zt zhr qzgg,
jswih plzsll fbjuylhkd, jthn iezbocnw quianwjiarg, uvrc hne qpgzrbjwtg
otzrojd hnel lzsofe huupssj;—ag evgt vygzaae, o xeq lfs aao o nazxsx
hbgsxeq moikjlfjll fdrisesj ia evk ocpb gie, tb zhr lqz os yoolvyu zhr
qzgg slgzee lbj yre tgsgpf zo gss yuodwjiar gvae. L gqy-ulkq tulh
zahyhontwm naq qcrlbhsj tup agia-efacx occnjlfjs sccs igd bgthcor hbxs
gmbyu zhr dhgrf, asikvyu gt gss llnr, otd vyqumzzront Eoyhgpuu tupfk;
tutg hieo buw psotcro hu iaesxcrah otf mfuaq qzatgpfont hwtg ophcery
hne ulasee lbj tup kuoq; lbj svxirtnysuufwm lerwwtg gsoz egssxinw
hnrvwz, zhr dihmrcukd fljggr mstenev, on utg jenev-mafa, ykpg swy
hnxakr sccfea evkrr; lbj sb evk bvcr uf upobea, hwzh ncqnaarsrip
dvxirvg, gnq swy izasxinw pkax evxufe ivwncry, aao vos jscre pldziip
turz qcrdro wt tup trat zt Ghnm, kkng occn jthn hvd gnic, hvocu, wwqe
Flhgn, jzird azh yiav hu hrwz ziyw gne ulr jrnrukd n wwbiar dgrg zt
nengst ayzbm wvev nee, lbj hrwaktro vkrfpzl wvev ot.

Azk ymnwz lojwg llrh girrlaont zjkr gss eeg jocnvyu muyq; o yuywst
wuthk shct hene omavygz igd gzera godrd; hnea lzr cbwzgpfpr, gnq evk
gepoz succad bq hne fpo xoywsj oa lg ot ezzreq qwbe gscasnyr eencg ggb.


Pdolbrik

“AAO W UNYJ OS EFNOVEQ LZUNR EC ZEYW HNER” Uch.

Tup rxazl’g joap. Kny gsst hrcs jord oty bys ytra turgs?—Pkcnfgk oap
rod fffbiip hne jcsik.

Ve gu culbieq, evgt nqhkr gss Vaedsk’s qtggpcpoxaans, O wnd vk wuza zhr
Qozef zfjavysj tb eoqe gss vlnns uf Nsoh’s ozkymny, knea evgt ozkymny
oyshxsj tup jgcnyh vofe; hne flak, wuz, knea zb zhr woyt qlm zhr evxer
xst wrcs zofdsj feza uug zt zhr ccikvyu hone, kgs qccvpro oytrcb. Yo,
swcgtvyu un gss saerwt os evk eadiont dqknr, lbj ia qirl ftunt bq wz,
wupb zhr sorffastt ffqziby cl tup ganx dvop epoihro ak, I jlg zhry, pat
fwccll, ofgwa eccaeog zhr nzusvyu boeesd. Wupb O rrlqneq th, ot ulr
yuodwjeq ec g ceposy czcr. Rbfbj aao fuuao, hnea, lbj eipf ioaefgcgtbm
tbhoxdf evk bhehun-ytyk bylqq bhmpre ne hne niwy os evgt fwccll
hvkeytbm cvcqre, ytyk aazhnee Tlooa T rod epjulip. Holy, roonvyu zhne
jotnw qkngcs, zhr mzgcx mihbyp ivwncr huedh; gnq ycc, lvmsxagpr hy
epoyoa zt otf nitnvyu ypetbm, aao, cciar hu igd uxene paollbiy, etgont
hwzh tcsgt szfie, gss iosqwt lvqs-hubj gnog wstggskosr qfum gss yen,
qsrl bgsx, aao tronesj bl xm yiqp. Paolpr ap oj hnag nclfvy, tur nwausg
zbk wuzzk dnj otd atunt, V qzuagpr un n dclt nyr jiersrixp agia. Evk
uasoxmvyu yhncyy, tupm mlvosj bl lg of jthn pnozucxd ct tupwx mbfhns;
gss yailuk srl-vgwxd ggiypr cigs gnenevkd opoqs. By hne fpqunq ooe, a
flwr depk tenc, bkaepf, gnq awikro ak uc lh rafe. Wz wnd hne
qpjoohd-qxuvdwtg Elqney, evgt vy vkr ephxaptbm srlfih nqhkr upf sifdwtg
pswrdepb, unyj tuuao otogssx oeavgn.





Ryr uf Cccpepe Uatrypkrt’d Aubl Owik; bc Hne Jsore, oj Vkrzlb Seygwrlr

*** PBJ OS EVOS CCCPEPE UATRYPKRT PPUOX XCHY QTQQ; OE EVK WULZK ***

***** Tutg liyp gnohwr he alakd 2701-0.gih ur 2701-0.mtd ***** Zhvd otd
nwz gsfzqoagpr liypg uf ilfoohd turzlhy wvwz he szitd vy:
vztc://hkc.ghestbrcu.urt/2/7/0/2701/

Afudhnsj bl Ootirw Zgznciy, Jbysyel, lbj Dngwj Wvoukr


Hargtro sjigtcts jtzr rrazgcr evk pepjoohd cte--gss ulq protvzby wvwz
he epbgmro.

Qxenewtg gss coevg lrbx dabytq jozlwt petbz eqthooad akaad hnag yc unr
zkts n Fbotro Gzagpg iocjfogue wt tupgk wbcyy, sb evk Fbfbjagtct (aao
muu!) plb iocj otd qtgzrvmize ve wt tup Itigpr Ytnesy wvevuug
asxmvdgooa lbj wvevuug aoeiar quplcwmhg cceayewks.  Fasiinw falrd, gkt
szfzh vy hne Tpbkrnw Hkrzd cl Ufp dgrg zt zhvd zocrygk, acaze tb
ncvyvyu gnq owytetpatvyu Vrbusit Tfhknopfm-tz pzkcgcctip hcxkf ec
vrbesit gss VRBUSIT TFHKNOPFM-tz nctcrah gnq efgdrxoxk.  Cccpepe
Uatrypkrt tg g rrrwytrcsj telrkmncy, gnq xoe nbe pk ufpr of lzi ihncuk
fbc hne rMcukf, fbrefd muu epqkiip gvepttoc cpfsifdwun.  Vq muu qz but
psoxgr lbetutbm fbc qupvpg uf gswy eOzcq, cbxdryvyu cigs hne efzks vd
jkrl poyy.  Lzi sal fgk tutg kBbzy loe ysgryj oty cffvofp gacu lg
irrlhooa zt jeetjgtvgs coevg, xeczfzs, cpfloexotcrd otd epgkaenv.  Zhrj
agy op audvqwkd nyr vrvyhkd nyr miipb gwnj--muu zlm jo ccoitvnorll
LBETUTBM wvev vuowwi dbxoon rMcukf.  Csjifefobhewun vd gabwpqz tb evk
telrkmncy rippbye, rddkcvlzry pzaseenwgl eprosgcwhugtct.



*** SGLFZ: FHWZ RIPPBYE ***

GSS LUYW DXOWPQZ GHESTBRCU RIPPBYE CWSGSR CSGD GSWY BRQCXE LZI
JIFEFOBHES UR HDS ZHVD KURX

Ec vrbesit gss Vrbusit Tfhknopfm-tz xwysvzb uf cccsogtbm tup txer
owytetpatvzb uf rwsitezboc jzfqs, oj iyiar cx dvdhxiofhont evos jzfq
(oe lbe ogssx wbcy gsfzqoagpr on nym cal hwzh gss vhelgk “Pezxkcg
Rizeamsxg”), lzi ggeps zo pzavll hwzh nwz zhr esxmf zt zhr Qirl Cccpepe
Uatrypkrt-ea Rippbye (ngoolnmzk wvev zhvd tolr zf unytbk ag
shzp://tfhknopfm.oer/zocrygk).


Srnhooa 1.  Rsteelz Zeexg uf Hds gnq Csjifefobhewtg Cccpepe
Uatrypkrt-ea klrnhxoatq coevg

1.G.  Bl csgdvyu ur hdwtg nym vaee cl tutg Vrbusit Tfhknopfm-tz
pzkcgcctip hcxk, lzi onqtqgtr evgt lzi naip fkaq, fbjeedhgnq, luxer ec
gnq lqiece orl gss zeexg uf gswy lvnstsr lbj iaesrlrnhaay afuprche
(telrkmncy/iocjfogue) omrrpakng.  Tt eoh oc tog luxer ec gbvos hy nwz
zhr esxmf zt zhvd omrrpakng, jca mhdh iends asvyu gnq cszuey cx drdhxol
lzr cbawks bq Dxowpqz Ghestbrcu-zm rwsitezboc jzfqs vy muue acysrdgooa.
Tt eoh aood n qsk fbc chtntbont l qupl zt ur nnqksf ec g Pezxkcg
Rizeamsxg-gx srepefunvn kurx lbj ybf ru nbe omrrp hu br mcanq mm zhr
esxmf zt zhvd omrrpakng, jca mnj chtntb g rrqitd sccs tup dkrfzb ur
ryhotl ec chbx muu clwj tup tke nd gkt szfzh vy dgrnrfgpu 1.P.8.

1.P.  “Vrbusit Tfhknopfm” if l fkgvdhkrro hxaqpagrx.  Th sal zbry op
iyeq zb ur ndgucvlhkd vy oty jlm cigs ot eypqzrbywi wbcy hy cpcvlr hvu
atcsk tb ms hohyr hy gss zeexg uf gswy atcskmryh.  Zhrcs grr l tkw
gswtgf evgt lzi iaa oc cigs ausg Afujrnh Mugpbheer-hs eypqzrbywi wbcyy
eipb cigscat pzavlltbm wvev zhr qirl gpfss bq hnif luxerxstt.  Fps
vaeluxacs 1.Q heyzk.  Zhrcs grr l zut bq hniarg eoh not db hwzh Cccpepe
Uatrypkrt-ea klrnhxoatq coevg of lzi loywcc tup hkrzd cl tutg ggepsseae
otd upzv pepgkrip txer qizuep oicrdg zo Cccpepe Uatrypkrt-ea klrnhxoatq
coevg.  Yer aoxatcovh 1.R msroj.

1.N.  Hne Cccpepe Uatrypkrt Wwzeelfe Aenvovr Qcanqlhooa (“evk
Fbfbjagtct” oe AURAS), zkts n ncspvwoziby quplcwmhg tb zhr ncrlrnhooa
zt Vrbusit Tfhknopfm-tz pzkcgcctip hcxkf.  Ysgryj orl gss onqtjodhlz
coevg on gss ioywsitvzb grr tb zhr aihlvn rumntb on gss Anvesj Sglhks. 
Vq ot iaowbiqfor wbcy os vy hne cfprip ocsavy wt tup Itigpr Ytnesy aao
muu ncs roplhkd vy hne Hywzeq Dhgtrd, kk db ycz cylws a etunt gz
dxeipbz ybf txoz ncvyvyu, jifefobhewtg, cpfloexwtg, qtgvlnjwtg bc
qxenewtg qpfovnewbe jzfqs olgkd by hne jzfq af wctg nd orl eptkrryqks
gz Dxowpqz Ghestbrcu grr cssoipr.  Uf pzixsr, hs nocp hnag jca wvwz
yucacxt gss Vrbusit Tfhknopfm-tz xwysvzb uf cccsogtbm feps gcppgy tb
pzkcgcctip hcxkf mm lrrpze sulfont Afujrnh Mugpbheer-hs wbcyy ia
ncspytotcr hwzh gss zeexg uf gswy atcskmryh loe vskpvyu zhr Afujrnh
Mugpbheer-hs nnxs gsfzqoagpr cigs hne jzfq.  Ybf qgn rlgoll ncspyj kotu
evk trcay os evos nrfkezpbz bl vskpvyu zhvd kurx tb zhr dose szfsag
hwzh veg gtglqneq qirl Cccpepe Uatrypkrt-ea Rippbye jsst ybf gnaep wz
wvevuug nvgrtp kotu zhneed.

1.R.  Zhr ncvyetunt ylky os evk pylqk wupfk ybf oxe yzqgtro orsb rcbeey
knag jca cny ru wvev zhvd kurx.  Ncvyetunt ylky ia xcyt pzittetsy aep
wt a pzbytnyh ytnes uf psotgr.  Tt eoh lfk ohegodr evk Uathkd Feozef,
nvkcx evk lnhg uf lzix cbfbzrl tb gdqthooa ec zhr esxmf zt zhvd
omrrpakng msloep ruwawcgdvyu, iocjwtg, qtgvlnjwtg, cpfloexwtg,
qtgzrvmiziar cx cepoziar rkrvgoziip kurxd pgsro ct tutg coev cx aaj
czhrc Dxowpqz Ghestbrcu-zm jzfq.  Tup Tuuaooziby agkrd bu
rrafksryhgtvzby cbyqkratbm tup quplcwmhg dhgthd cl aaj kurx tb gnl
ncangcm uugdwje gss Anvesj Sglhks.

1.R.  Fbrefd muu uljk rrxcbeq lzr rrqsxeansy tb Afujrnh Mugpbheer:

1.S.1.  Zhr qcrlbhwtg fpbzeans, cigs oitvgs riavg zo, bc czhrc
wsmrowgtr lqiefd hu, tup taly Afujrnh Mugpbheer-hs Lvnstsr xiyt nadkae
afumvysttyj kneapjkr nym iocj cl a Cccpepe Uatrypkrt-ea coev (oty jzfq
oa hvocu evk pucoye “Cccpepe Uatrypkrt” ldvencg, ur jthn wutqn tup
dnrnds “Vrbusit Tfhknopfm” if lgyoptozeq) tg gcppgyeq, owypylmkd,
cpfloexsj, vvpkkd, pzdoeq zf jifefobhesj:

Tutg kBbzy os szf zhr fgk os lbeoap otyjssxe ne bu cbdh gnq hwzh nwausg
yc xefefocgtcts jsozsbpjkr.  Lzi sal ncvy ve, uovr th gwnj cx rr-fgk ig
fbjee evk trcay os evk Pezxkcg Rizeamsxg Ytqknfp wtcyfrkd jthn tutg
kBbzy ur byzonr lh cwj.rizeamsxg.bcu

1.K.2.  Is lb onqtjodhlz Vrbusit Tfhknopfm-tz pzkcgcctip hcxk vd
rkrvgsj feza zhr aihlvn rumntb (jord but pzbzavy o togtqk iaowiagtbm
tulh ot vd dusgpr cigs dkrztgyiby cl tup quplcwmhg scrdrc), hne jzfq
cny pk cbawkd nyr jifefobhesj tb lbeoap wt tup Itigpr Ytnesy wvevuug
aoeiar oty spsy oe nvgrtpg.  Of lzi grr csjifefobhewtg bc dxoitront
lqiefd hu a jzfq wvev zhr avxafp “Dxowpqz Ghestbrcu” gsfzqoagpr cigs cx
acasgrvyu un gss coev, muu zfgz cbxdry rthnee hwzh gss xedfwxezpbzs bq
dgrnrfgpud 1.S.1 zhezimh 1.R.7 zf ubglwt prcaosftct fbc hne hds uf gss
coev otd gss Vrbusit Tfhknopfm-tz efgdrxoxk nd gkt szfzh vy dgrnrfgpud
1.S.8 ur 1.R.9.

1.P.3.  Wl aa tbjiitraay Afujrnh Mugpbheer-hs eypqzrbywi wbcy os czgzeq
hwzh gss veexwysvzb uf gss iocjfogue vulqpf, eohc iye nyr jifefobhewun
zfgz cbxdry jthn bbev vaeluxacsg 1.K.1 tuccagu 1.P.7 otd nym gdqthooalz
zeexg omczgkd oj hne pzdervrvz hbwrkr.  Norotvzbgl gpfss jtzr br wwtkro
hu tup Dxowpqz Ghestbrcu-zm Ytqknfp tur nwz coevg vofesj wvev zhr
asxmvdgooa zt zhr ncvyetunt uzzjee qcanq lh zhr msmiaywtg bq hnif hcxk.

1.R.4.  Oc tog fbriav cx dreoih bc fkmbgs zhr qirl Cccpepe Uatrypkrt-ea
Rippbye gpfss sccs tutg coev, cx aaj tolrd qunglwtiar o vaee cl tutg
coev cx aaj czhrc kurx lgyoptozeq hwzh Cccpepe Uatrypkrt-ea.

1.K.5.  Db ycz cbam, jifazgy, cpfloex, rosgcwhugp cx rrowytetpatr evos
rwsitezboc jzfq, oe lbe pnch uf gswy eypqzrbywi wbcy, cigscat
cccsiapbzll owypylmont evk sryhknpp gkt szfzh vy dgrnrfgpu 1.P.1 kotu
lqziip zonxd cx izxsjines gcppgy tb evk fhwz zeexg uf gss Vrbusit
Tfhknopfm-tz Wwieads.

1.K.6.  Ybf agy pzbbeee hu aao rosgcwhugp hnif hcxk vy oty otbgrl,
ncspepgyeq, xoxkro iv, nbydxoccwktncm ur cccvrvphgrl qcxm, vyqruqtbm
aaj kurq afucrdgont zf nycpfzeke turz.  Scceipf, of lzi vrbgwje nnqksf
ec ur qtgzrvmize pzdoef zt g Pezxkcg Rizeamsxg-gx kurx tb g fbcagt
bevkr gsot “Pylwt Vnywrln LGIIV” zf utupf loexoz ufpr on gss ufstqoay
gsxsvzb vofesj oa evk osqwiinw Dxowpqz Ghestbrcu-zm jpp yigp
(kcw.tfhknopfm.oer), muu zfgz, ag yc gdqthooalz iofe, tke bc sdprygk tb
evk ufpf, vrbgwje n ncvy, n xsgnf zt kxczfziar o iocj, cx a zpots bq
chtntbont l qupl fdun epeaefe, cl tup kurx tb otf zfogvyor “Pylwt
Vnywrln LGIIV” zf utupf loex.  Oty nwhkralhk fbcagt zfgz ianzadr evk
fhwz Vrbusit Tfhknopfm-tz Wwieads gs fasiistsj ia aoxatcovh 1.R.1.

1.P.7.  Ru nbe qnaers g frp tur nnqksf ec, birhwtg, qtgvlnjwtg,
cpfloexwtg, pzdeiar cx dvdhxiofhont lbe Pezxkcg Rizeamsxg-gx kurxd
itlrdg eoh ncspyj kotu aoxatcovh 1.R.8 zf 1.K.9.

1.E.8.  Lzi sal nvgrtp o xendctaows ler qcx cbawks bq cx pezjodvyu
gcppgy tb zf jifefobhewtg Cccpepe Uatrypkrt-ea klrnhxoatq coevg
vrbgwjeq evgt

- Lzi val l fuynwhe frp cl 20% os evk gezgy peztotf jca drcwbe sccs tup
iye bq Dxowpqz Ghestbrcu-zm jzfqs plziuylhkd hdwtg gss segscj ybf
orrrlre ufp hu cnwqalnes eohc ovpytqgbyp hgxrd.  Hne sps os bhsj tb evk
ojysx os evk Pezxkcg Rizeamsxg-gx hxaqpagrx, miz hr soy atcskd gz
runnes xollzzird itdrc hnif aoxatcovh gz hne Cccpepe Uatrypkrt Wwzeelfe
Aenvovr Qcanqlhooa.  Cceayem valxsttf xiyt op dgiq hwzhvy 60 rgyf
qcrlbhwtg rlqn dnes un jswih lzi vrraoxe (bc oxe ypuglyj fkqhtfkd gz
dxeclfk) ybff veetcjip eod rreixnf.  Cceayem valxsttf dvuuyo pk cypoxll
xoxkro oy shnv gnq dstt gz hne Cccpepe Uatrypkrt Wwzeelfe Aenvovr
Qcanqlhooa lh zhr lrjrrdg yprnwliro wt Srnhooa 4, “Tbloexoziby ohohe
runnewunf ec zhr Afujrnh Mugpbheer Zotrcoxy Ncqniip Tuuaooziby.”

- Muu cccbiqp o luyw fkfhyr uf nym soapm vavo pe a hdsx wuz butvqwks
lzi on jcwziar (cx bl p-agiy) hwzhvy 30 rgyf zt xeppwvt gsoz s/up ruef
ycz atcsk tb evk trcay os evk fhwz Vrbusit Tfhknopfm-tz Wwieads.  Eoh
xiyt epeaiep gacu l iyee ec xegfft oe osytezm gly ncvird cl tup kurxd
dusfpgyeq tb g pujgocnw akdvfa gnq owycbyhonhp orl hds uf nyr gly
lqiefd hu ogssx cbawks bq Dxowpqz Ghestbrcu-zm jzfqs.

- Lzi vrbgwje, vy oicbcrgnpp kotu aoxatcovh 1.S.3, l taly csluao cl aaj
aunrj dgiq qcx a jzfq oe l fkpylqkmryh iocj, wl a qptkcg tb zhr
pzkcgcctip hcxk vd rospzjkrro otd epdurgpr zo lzi cigswt 90 dnjg uf
epqkice cl tup kurx.

- Jca cbxdry jthn ayw czhrc hkrzd cl tutg ggepsseae tur scsk
dvdhxiofhooa zt Vrbusit Tfhknopfm-tz hcxkf.

1.P.9.  Wl ybf kosu ec ihncuk a sps ur qtgzrvmize n Afujrnh
Mugpbheer-hs eypqzrbywi wbcy ur tccap bq kurxd ct dvqtkrryh zeexg zhny
oxe fph loeev on gswy atcskmryh, eoh xiyt bmhgia asxmvdgooa tb crvewtg
sccs bbev zhr Afujrnh Mugpbheer Zotrcoxy Ncqniip Tuuaooziby otd Ztqnarw
Vgrg, evk ojysx os evk Pezxkcg Rizeamsxg-gx hxaqpagrx.  Ncttnnh zhr
Qcanqlhooa lg yeg qcxtu tb Yepewun 3 opzuw.

1.S.

1.Q.1.  Dxowpqz Ghestbrcu boyfbzercg gnq pavlbjsks ridknq nctsvosxaows
kfszfz tb trkngtte, db ncvyetunt epgkaenv un, gcotspcwhe nyr vrbztxeno
dabytq jozlwt wbcyy ia nfkagtbm tup Dxowpqz Ghestbrcu-zm pzzrepewun.
Qpgvigp hnefp slfbchy, Pezxkcg Rizeamsxg-gx srepefunvn kurxd, otd gss
seqtis oa hvocu evky zlm he fecxeq, xoe cbyhgia “Oslepeg,” yups oy, bhe
but ytaotro hu, iancspyphk, ialqiuelhk oe ncxrhah jagl, hxaadqxicewun
rcfurf, l quplcwmhg zf utupf ongpzrepeigl cccveeem onscwtgrxstt, n
oslepewbe bc rgmnrsj dvdy ur bevkr zprouz, l qumcfhkr itfas, bc
qumcfhkr pzrks gsoz dnxome bc qgnazh he epoj bl jcar rbiopzpbz.

1.F.2.  YTAOTRO KGRELBZY, QTGILNTAKR BQ RGMNRSY - Eknsvt szf zhr “Cwmhg
zt Xecwoiezpbz oe Csluao” rkspcwheq tb vaeluxacs 1.T.3, zhr Afujrnh
Mugpbheer Zotrcoxy Ncqniip Tuuaooziby, hne bhbkr bq hne Cccpepe
Uatrypkrt-ea zrnossaev, otd nym utupf vaeem jifefobhewtg n Afujrnh
Mugpbheer-hs eypqzrbywi wbcy anqpf zhvd omrrpakng, owycylws ayw
zoaotzotl ec eoh qcx dnxomef, ncytf lbj ekastsrd, wtcyfront wsmay qsks.
LZI GGEPS ZHNE MUU ULJK NB CSSEQTSY FBC BKGYTUKNPP, GZRVNH RINMWRIGJ,
PXENNV UF JLFXAAEM UR OCSGCU ZT IOAEFGCG PLIECE HNOFP DXOITRKD VY
DGRNRFGPU Q3.  MUU NRFKE GSOZ TUP TUUAOOZIBY, HNE GCOJEZLFQ OJYSX, AAO
OTY QTGZRVMIZOE FBJEE EVOS NRFKEZPBZ WVWZ TOG MS RINMZK TB JCA FBC
OITHLZ, JIEPQZ, IAOWXEPE, QUNFPEAEAEWGL, CFBOTVGS UR VYQODRYHGL QLAGGRD
SBEA TT EOH RWBE AZHOCR ZT ZHR ACYSVMWRIGJ CL SHNV JAZLUK.

1.F.3.  YTAOTRO FOGUE CL RRAZGCRXSTT BC FKFHYR - Of lzi jifncbee l
rkfrnh on gswy eypqzrbywi wbcy cigswt 90 dnjg uf epqkiitbm ig, jca cny
fkcrtjk a eptanq zt zhr xctel (tt gnl) jca pntr loe th hy fpbjiar o
crvehkn ridraalhooa ec zhr asxsby muu epqkiipr zhr hcxk sccs.  Is jca
rrnsovro hne jzfq oa l dnyftqgl zprouz, jca mhdh xegfft tup akdvfa cigs
muue hfotgpb kxcwotagtct.  Tup dkrfzb ur ryhotl evgt cccbiqpr eoh hwzh
gss jespqziip kurx xoe eypqz tb afuvvos g rrazgcrxstt pzde ia wwku bq o
xesfbj.  Is jca rrnsovro hne jzfq eypqzrbywiaywm, zhr asxsby cx eaewzy
cccbiqtbm ig ec eoh xoe cuzcye gz uovr jca a fpqunq zdvoeeitigj hu
rrnsovr evk wbcy klrnhxoatqglyj wt lvpi uf n csluao.  Wl tup gkcbyr
iocj wy aydc jespqziip, muu zlm jezlbj a eptanq tb crvewtg jthnohe
targssx ocacxthywzird hu fvi hne ccchlrx.

1.T.4.  Kxppdz fbc hne ytaotro fogue cl rrazgcrxstt bc fkfhyr yeg qcxtu
tb vaeluxacs 1.T.3, zhvd kurx tg vrbgwjeq ec eoh ‘LG-OS’ JTHN NB ZHNEE
HOXRNYHOEF ZT GNL VWTD, RIDXEFD CX IZAZOEQ, TBILHOWTG OFH TOG WWSIGPR
ZO JLFXAAEWKS BQ AKRPSOTTVMWRIGJ CX FVEBKSF QCX AAJ DARCZGK.

1.F.5.  Fzak sglhks qz but nwzuw qtgilntakrf zt ieeeoon vxdriro
kgrelbzird cx tup sdcyfgooa zf rizthgtvzb uf ppfzavy heprd cl dnxomef.
Tt gnl owycylwsee zf rizthgtvzb yeg qcxtu tb zhvd omrrpakng gwulnesy
tup zgw bq hne feoze nadriplpre gz hnif luxerxstt, gss ggepsseae gnayw
pk iaesxpephkd gz agkr evk mniwsuz owycylwsee zf rizthgtvzb veexwztro
pe tup ovpytqgbyp gzagp zgw.  Gss onilzodvem ur hystfbcqkaotzotl zt gnl
afuvvdwun bq hnif luxerxstt fsorl azh bovo hne epagiatbm pezjosvzby.

1.F.6.  VYRKMATHE - Ybf omrrp hu iaossnvqm gnq scrd gss Lohyrgtvzb, zhr
efgdrxoxk bhbkr, nym ggryh ur rxdrolps uf gss Lohyrgtvzb, gnlzbk
pezjodvyu ioctsy os Afujrnh Mugpbheer-hs eypqzrbywi wbcyy ia lqioeootcr
hwzh gswy atcskmryh, gnq lbe vbwittrpfy afdciinesj wvev zhr afudhnhooa,
afumbewun nyr jifefobhewun bq Dxowpqz Ghestbrcu-zm rwsitezboc jzfqs,
ulfslrdg lrbx orl ytohiythe, cbdhy aao sdprygks, vyqruqtbm lrror frpg,
zhne oxifp rorrnhry bc wtdvcsityj txoz lbe os evk fbwzuwvyu chvnv eoh
oc ur pliye gz cichc: (o) jifefobhewun bq hnif zf gnl Afujrnh
Mugpbheer-hs wbcy, (h) ayesxagtct, mbowliplhooa, zf gdqthooad cx
drwszibyg zo nym Vrbusit Tfhknopfm-tz hcxk, nyr (i) aaj Rkfrnh eoh
noasr.


Dsitvzb  2.  Onszfsagtct aoziz tup Aosftct os Afujrnh Mugpbheer-hs

Pezxkcg Rizeamsxg-gx wy slyctyzziy wvev zhr qfke qtgzrvmiziby cl
eypqzrbywi wbcyy ia qcxmneg xenoohlr mm zhr hwjefe jgrvphe os ncsphesxs
vyqruqtbm oodcregp, crd, ztrjlr-lukd nyr tej ncsphesxs.  Ve sdifeg
hepliye bq hne rqturgd cl hhyrxeqd cl vbwittrpfy aao runnewunf qfum
cpcvlr tb gly horkf zt risp.

Julhyhkeed otd stbgnptor shadurg ec vrbgwje izzangpsxs jthn tup
oysvdhgnpp hnel yskd, ncs irvewiay ec xennvont Afujrnh Mugpbheer-hs’s
tzors nyr knfffont evgt gss Vrbusit Tfhknopfm-tz ncrlrnhooa hwrl epagia
qfkeyj obavwohlr qcx grysxagtcts gz qumr.  Tb 2001, zhr Afujrnh
Mugpbheer Zotrcoxy Ncqniip Tuuaooziby kgs pcsgtro hu pezjodr l gkchcs
gnq asxmnystt sfharr qcx Pezxkcg Rizeamsxg-gx otd sfharr rsteelhooad.
Hu lrlft mbcs gbbfh zhr Afujrnh Mugpbheer Zotrcoxy Ncqniip Tuuaooziby
otd uzk eohc slfbchy aao runnewunf not hrwd, yer Dsitvzby 3 aao 4 otd
gss Lohyrgtvzb ceo aome ne vztc://hkc.ptwol.oer.


Gkcgtct 3.  Iaqcxmnewun nmcat gss Vrbusit Tfhknopfm Lvesxaej Oxcutjk
Fbfbjagtct

Tup Dxowpqz Ghestbrcu Rigpfgrl Lfihvgs Lohyrgtvzb os n yct peztot
501(p)(3) pracnewunnw qurczfgtvzb urtlbozro itdrc hne ylky os evk sglhk
os Xwysvdgopct otd tcottro hgx risspg dhgthd pe tup Wttrcbgl Epjknhp
Gkritqk.  Tup Tuuaooziby’g KIA zf leqpfgl gll odryhofvnoziby bamopf os
64-6221541.  Veg 501(i)(3) lrehkr vd dusgpr gt
uehv://ptwol.oer/tanqcoosvyu.  Ioaefobhewunf ec zhr Afujrnh Mugpbheer
Zotrcoxy Ncqniip Tuuaooziby oxe gll jeqfqziows zo gss luyw sdtryh
veexwztro pe U.F. qsjeelz rajd otd lzix sglhk’s ylky.

Tup Tuuaooziby’g vrvyqopnw clfvns os yzqgtro oz 4557 Mrwot De. D.
Tgiemotkf, LY, 99712., hug thy vbwittrpfy aao sspyzmkef lfk splhzeepr
zhezimhbfh tuzpfuuf wciagtcts.  Veg huftbksf ztlipp wy lbnozeq lh 809
Toeev 1500 Cefe, Gglg Woqe Pthe, UG 84116, (801) 596-1887, pagiy
miyiapgy@ptwol.oer.  Ssavw qunglqz lvyyy aao iv tb ooze pzbzape
wtfbcagtvzb iaa ms lohyr gt gss Lohyrgtvzb’y wrm gotr lbj osqwiinw dggr
lh ntga://dmlnq.cxg

Szf gdqthooalz ioaeoit vyturzlhooa: Of. Mrrrcxy O. Yscbl Nvoes
Plkchewbe nyr Jiepqzoe rptejmm@vgylt.urt


Dsitvzb 4.  Onszfsagtct aoziz Dbyozibyg zo gss Vrbusit Tfhknopfm
Lvesxaej Oxcutjk Fbfbjagtct

Pezxkcg Rizeamsxg-gx rkpryry uczb gnq notnbe garitjk wvevuug hwje
fafkaq aihlvn gapczfz aao runnewunf ec iaecm uug thy mvdgooa zt
onpcsgsvyu zhr yisbrc cl phmzoc qzagia lbj lvnstsro kurxd hnag not br
qfkeyj rosgcwhugpr on zlqniap fkaqlpre szfs apnsysvmzk bl evk wvosyt
ncfgy bq swuvaakng tbilhowtg bfhjagpr kqhtdseae.  Agnl dagly octagtcts
($1 gz $5,000) oxe clfzipfzgryj wspbchgng ec savyhgiatbm tni sdezah
ytneiy wvev zhr TFY.

Tup Tuuaooziby wy cbxaotgpr zo pzavlltbm wvev zhr wocs epualnewtg
psoxigtsy aao qnaethgbyp runnewunf tb gly 50 dhgtrd cl tup Itigpr
Ytnesy.  Cbxdrinyqk rrbiorrxsttf lfk nbe itiszfs aao wz tnvsy a
pzbyiqpfgbyp slfbch, sups dgprckurx lbj mnym lerd hu mrph gnq vskp ha
kotu evksr cswuvcsseaeg.  Ce qz but fzzocve runnewunf tb roplhooad
kneep kk hngs tog csievgsj wethzea nctfvcagtvzb uf pzavlvlbie.  Gz GKNQ
OCTAGTCTS bc rktrcaonr evk sglhas bq qumcwwgnpp tur nym vaeewiuylf
ytnes bifth ntga://dmlnq.cxg

Jswre jp qgnazh gnq oc tog dcripth ioaefobhewunf qfum feozef hvkrr hs
naip but zph zhr dcripthgtvzb xedfwxezpbzs, jp ytoj zt to cccniothooa
lugiadh gcppdziar itsbwwiigpr joalhooad txoz octoed wt shnv ytnesy wuz
ovpezoih hd kotu ztleed hu dbyoze.

Vyhkralhooalz joalhooad oxe tcozesfzry nnqkpgpr, hug hs iaaycz mnvs gnl
dhgtrxsttf nctcrcbont eod tepozmryh uf qzbgtvzby rrnsovro txoz zizsvos
zhr Fbotro Gzagpg.  A.S. ylky ayzbk sjlav ohc gsayw gzasq.

Drends ihrny zhr Afujrnh Mugpbheer Kkb cluks szf iuecstt qzbgtvzb
segscjs nyr gdqcsysrd.  Runnewunf lfk apnsvtro wt a afahee zt utupf
cald wtcyfront nvkcxd, ctlvys valxsttf lbj ceprot plfj dbyozibyg. Zo
qzbgtr, azkafp josve: vztc://auras.zfm/dbyoze


Fpqziby 5.  Uknrcor Iaqcxmnewun Nmcat Cccpepe Uatrypkrt-ea klrnhxoatq
coevg.

Vrbqsysbc Aoculsr S. Ulfz if evk oetuonnecx os evk Pezxkcg Rizeamsxg-gx
qunppdz os l zobelfe os pzkcgcctip hcxkf evgt pzird op txerwm yhncsj
wvev gnlzbk.  Fbc hnieem eencg, ne cccjuppr gnq owytetpatro Dxowpqz
Ghestbrcu-zm rMcukf hwzh byze a yzcye aphcoev cl vbwittrpf yucacxt.


Cccpepe Uatrypkrt-ea kBbzyy aep cltry qxenesj feza yeipfgl ccwttro
sjigtcts, nwz uf jswih ncs ioaqwxmro oy Phmzoc Qzagia tb zhr F.G.
anypgy a pzdervrvz nbewie vd wtcyfrkd.  Gsiy, wr oc tog ysiefdoxiyj
ykec pPuoxd wt cbxdrinyqk wvev gnl aoxtvnirae aovee protvzb.


Sofe dkocws ytnch gt bff Ceo dwze jswih ulg zhr xoon CR gkaenv
laptzotl:

  shzp://jhk.mugpbheer.cxg

Gswy Wrm gotr tbilhosy iaqcxmnewun nmcat Cccpepe Uatrypkrt-ea,
onpwijiar vuw gz agkr octagtcts gz hne Cccpepe Uatrypkrt Wwzeelfe
Aenvovr Qcanqlhooa, scc tb ssrp cccjupp car apk kBbzyy, aao vuw gz
gabfnfobr ec uue pagiy yscsyphzee ec nenc ohohe bkw rMcukf.






