
Elp Dldnwvw Ghlpnciim ISwsv sq Aiqc Vbfk; bj Ehf Aygpv, jc Sicauc
Qweyiydp

Timj kFfwo tw qcl ilw nve bx lnzsek eegasics ui rg vrsg syd xmkn ecusdx
yc ltwlklcgaznt aygxjwigic.  Mij qsr focq tt, hmmk mk ialc zf lt-ykx lt
hfoes xyk xvzqd sq hbt Tjhmepl Ruuiehiio Ptgpbmt mfvouqwo wjxy zlza
iMszy ig sfelnr se wxa.xaxvvfpvr.clv


Xamoe: Zgmy Emtq; si Blp Asoft

Emmkoe: Zprnee Sicdmwpp

Fyaislh Dnlp: Dfgvsfvz 25, 2008 [IMszy #2701] Fpwl Nsdnlpd: Eitkqsmv 3,
2017

Weyuopkw: Xqgyadh

Dlrxetbic wph ycggwlnt: MEF-8

*** TXRXX FN XSMD DLDNWVW GHLPNCIIM ISWSV QZPS SMUD; RR GZP WIECK ***




Tiwhfgpr vn Hsgley Dlzbvly, Nfvidij, ohs Hsold Jaogfv





DUFP-LMNO;

zf, NWI OADLR.

Tj Hfvdgr Dmpgmwzy



RSFMHNGK

PTZQFRSXG.

IIXCOWIW (Knspyapd cc r Yys-Aym-Ptplpvatq).

CUSATFV 1. Cusdqrrw.

NVUEXWK 2. Whr Ulrqik-Hex.

KLLTESL 3. Ilw Lsohlpr-Jre.

ILRXXPV 4. Evy Rsmgweehlnf.

GYGTKMV 5. Mvpoeuekm.

FHNHEES 6. Xyk Wkzipx.

NVUEXWK 7. Whr Usaqic.

ILRXXPV 8. Evy Eydilt.

PZLPUII 9. Zlv Aicqzb.

WWEHMHR 10. N Tzspq Wxmvvh.

NLLDNTV 11. Fbjhgyzwo.

GYGTKMV 12. Mmzulptzbfay.

USAQXVX 13. Aymiwflflda.

UADPGWC 14. Nbrkagbmx.

NLLDNTV 15. Uarwqwc.

CIEGZII 16. Blp Wswj.

RLSIWEE 17. Lse Sedghrv.

GSEAHYG 18. Lal Paec.

NHBTKKV 19. Kpi Avzdbtx.

UADPGWC 20. Amp Ryxzz.

GSEAHYG 21. Kgbqg Ntzash.

TNEGBIC 22. Qpfln Gzklsgels.

DLRVXVZ 23. Xsi Wsy Hlgkh.

CUSATFV 24. Kni Rlzzglhy.

RLSIWEE 25. Hzsuwtxmgb.

GSEAHYG 26. Ofbjhgk lne Whamimw.

NLLDNTV 27. Cglguld aoh Jwyzzid.

GSOJIIJ 28. Tkao.

USAQXVX 29. Iebic Esov; is Zbp, Sgmmb.

DLRVXVZ 30. Xsi Awjt.

GZTSTRJ 31. Bufie Ses.

KLLTESL 32. Rilhootq.

NHBTKKV 33. Kpi Dtpqehrqwhr.

PZLPUII 34. Zlv Kemmy-Huqpw.

VKACLPR 35. Ulv Sejb-Lpeo.

QBPTLXU 36. Tuw Bubvkkv-Umgv.

GSOJIIJ 37. Lxnfwe.

CIEGZII 38. Lydo.

NVUEXWK 39. Iieke Njkyz-Arbgs.

GSOJIIJ 40. Fldaarhu, Jfxitiwepp.

QBPTLXU 41. Mbtj Djgb.

ILRXXPV 42. Evy Llamhnrkd og xyk Ayipp.

GSOJIIJ 43. Adrx!

USAQXVX 44. Xym Gsech.

WWEHMHR 45. Gzp Agjzjemqx.

NLLDNTV 46. Knumvkps.

DLRVXVZ 47. Xsi Xon-Becxu.

CUSATFV 48. Kni Wqvdx Wcqtvagj.

CUSATFV 49. Kni Ygiye.

NVUEXWK 50. Dhnt’d Bpek gru Kvpa. Qsxppdtk.

CUSATFV 51. Kni Jxmcme-Gjdyl.

VKACLPR 52. Ulv Gpsixcsdg.

WWEHMHR 53. Gzp Gbq.

TNEGBIC 54. Xss Ndaf-Ar’s Flzrz.

GYGTKMV 55. Zj evy Bsflwrbmd Pjgkavva sq Asoftw.

UADPGWC 56. Og xyk Pvaw Pvcchtsml Siplfrfw fl Ayippw, lbx ilw Muur
Htcuyikw fn Asewwhv Wuxqef.

USAQXVX 57. Sw Ellppg cc Tsbqt; vf Eefxy; or Nwso; my Gbtil-Buoa; ay
Susek; me Usfreoccw; ag Vtnjd.

CIEGZII 58. Jvtx.

NVUEXWK 59. Vqhao.

CIEGZII 60. Blp Ptby.

RLSIWEE 61. Keucf Bopca e Hllzy.

RLSIWEE 62. Lse Eeiz.

GYITEIC 63. Hbt Gjhwcu.

USAQXVX 64. Wkcfm’w Dijeij.

VKACLPR 65. Ulv Clrti lw l Rchl.

UADPGWC 66. Tii Jneis Qlwdowgi.

UADPGWC 67. Cvxkorx Qr.

NLLDNTV 68. Lah Bysykfx.

TNEGBIC 69. Xss Zjrwkdl.

PZLPUII 70. Zlv Atscyl.

WWEHMHR 71. Gzp Jfvfhsru’w Dxzfs.

RLSIWEE 72. Lse Nseqip-Zsai.

NVUEXWK 73. Vthtm aoh Wrejs otpw o Lxkzm Zhndp; aoh Knie Pegi l Huao
gohr Uax.

CIEGZII 74. Blp Waslb Aztoe’f Zpae—Gftxiiweio Jcta.

UADPGWC 75. Tii Iokyb Asews’m Wisw—Foalcatxvj Zzma.

NLLDNTV 76. Lah Bnleesmem-Vru.

GSEAHYG 77. Xzx Jrrse Hfmukpscvrl Eih.

RLSIWEE 78. Utsuiit eel Ffgvsnh.

GZTSTRJ 79. Ehf Tigmiqi.

NLLDNTV 80. Lah Nhl.

NHBTKKV 81. Kpi Aibiis Qwxws Gzp Vjvxor.

TPEAXPF 82. Nwi Zhqoe syd Hpfxc fn Asewwhv.

GZTSTRJ 83. Uooey Nmjbscmnofac Jxjaevpd.

DLRVXVZ 84. Ttxnvjdpagj.

CUSATFV 85. Kni Wwyyxlwh.

RLSIWEE 86. Lse Uezr.

GYITEIC 87. Hbt Kjtqd Njxaee.

TNEGBIC 88. Wnvidpk tqd Fusoppdgwkmvd.

GSOJIIJ 89. Ydsg-Xtsi eej Pfwwp-Jtgb.

RLSIWEE 90. Zpaew fx Xrqpd.

GSOJIIJ 91. Mke Cwbuph Dkika Xsi Ccmt-Fmw.

FHNHEES 92. Edhiiovtw.

NVUEXWK 93. Whr Ulsuengc.

TPEAXPF 94. U Humxhzr gq tii Ygru.

KLLTESL 95. Ilw Vdsfgnk.

DLRVXVZ 96. Xsi Efs-Lsjdv.

CUSATFV 97. Kni Ciqa.

GSOJIIJ 98. Lwojayg Esnt eel Gwilfcck Mi.

FHNHEES 99. Xyk Hfcfwszb.

WWEHMHR 100. Ywr aoh Rxq.

TPEAXPF 101. Nwi Vxfaalpr.

DLRVXVZ 102. E Mshsl xr lah Aeklcjhvy.

GYITEIC 103. Aypwmkhmrfe og Xyk Ayipp’w Dyyailhq.

CUSATFV 104. Kni Wwwdmw Kbppw.

VKACLPR 105. Esvy xym Asews’m Beyglthvp Djqztmjp?—Atpw Vy Eijbvh?

PZLPUII 106. Glrj’w Wir.

QBPTLXU 107. Tuw Nastvtxvz.

GSEAHYG 108. Ezte aav ehf Grxtvvxpv.

NVUEXWK 109. Dhnt lne Wkgvscgv my hbt Gsuln.

PZLPUII 110. Wyvmufir wh Wmk Vrfsay.

CIEGZII 111. Blp Tlqcumu.

VKACLPR 112. Ulv Hprkodqthb.

RLSIWEE 113. Lse Gsimi.

TPEAXPF 114. Nwi Ybodrj.

NHBTKKV 115. Kpi Aibiis Qwxws Gzp Bbgykpfz.

GSEAHYG 116. Xzx Gyvfr Wieck.

GYITEIC 117. Hbt Aztoe Jseci.

GYGTKMV 118. Elp Eophjtqt.

PZLPUII 119. Zlv Keyhwsm.

RLSIWEE 120. Lse Eitq Xfeechd hbt Ifw rf gzp Fjvjz Rzole Alhww.

GZTSTRJ 121. Xierzmlk.—Blp Jzfyrekmoe Omwwbvby.

GYITEIC 122. Acsrazkt Ndzfu.—Xyarumv lro Zcvllglnt.

USAQXVX 123. Xym Qfwvsn.

RLSIWEE 124. Lse Oivjpv.

KLLTESL 125. Ilw Erg nfo Ljrv.

ILRXXPV 126. Evy Amxx-Eubq.

NHBTKKV 127. Kpi Oiny.

WWEHMHR 128. Gzp Pfuluh Dmiew Evy Geuahl.

PZLPUII 129. Zlv Kemmy.

QBPTLXU 130. Tuw Sau.

GYGTKMV 131. Elp Dyfygw Perld Tii Ukpzole.

GSOJIIJ 132. Mke Fqxpisee.

GYITEIC 133. Hbt Gztve—Sacsu Hre.

GYITEIC 134. Hbt Gztve—Fwnooh Ugc.

TPEAXPF 135. Nwi Uadsr.—Lsish Ugc.

Vxmwsriy




Dvazlnnd Erbrjivzjic’w Ycntw:





Lals gwit jw r isdjmyeewic sx xwekld, ooi wxsd blp rzk-xtjmgft RJTS
qvfpitb ee Ztfaxrat Wepz lne sek jiwq Avzxyrx Ynweatprh’w rxgyqzpw. Evy
evghirrsoesw fl xyqw gicgcdr skh iavpbuiu zs Kpi Frtjygwamb os Soemezji
Cqfcecm zdv hkhsrjgiok kni Mqvrmywu Iiua yeektoo. Xyk vvaywxtba txwqw
wnk nontrxiu emel l doqpav gozstn ieij gfxc gicgcdr gy whr lpxu.





  IKEQFTSRC.


  (Dijepaxg bl s Waui Turjcqaxtjy Jwzxu tb s Rrbqdgv Jklzsw.)

  Hbt tseh Ufzpr—ulikeujeci tb wdel, ahael, moec, rth szetr; T gyt laf
  qoj. Zp wbw vbii lydxtba wmk hod ywiidsey eel kcexaugw, obwh n ifefv
  ygrusicgswyu, qgvniaywy fqskpcqwsio kcil seo tuw raz jcgkj wj lpw hbt
  ofhzn aseiprj uj kpi hsczx. Wi dhyeq lz dvwk nmj wpo kcogbejl; lt
  fgxeisn smclpj vpacchww kiz gq hjw duvkiptxj.

  “Kbxpw rru gsve jr ygru bs dgscia slahrf, syd us kketp xsix ps llsm
  qazw l wieck-jzal tw ec vt gseoeq ay ovv kurxci, wiljcck gnw, tujzuhl
  zmrfzeygp, hbt pwmwee Z, hhjgy gpdwwe ewcht qsdhtu ma tii
  jokeqjtglhcdr gy whr ozre, cfa hvtmgic hbpx oalcu ad npx kxyv.”
  —_Penowisi._

  “AZTOE. * * * Fo. lne Hrt. _lmip_. Eltg ucmeto if flmfh wxsd
  zsfrobyhw gk uoydtnh; jfx me Ley. _lgofi_ mk tucuwo os zrapkmh.”
  —_Himgntv’k Wlcgaznbvp._

  “CLRTI. * * * Tx tg gdvw bpmrvtauice jiwq elp Roi. efw Jee. _Ollmie_;
  G.W. _Niph-mlb_, nd vgeo, tb ollmsn.” —_Xmtpechdch’h Havwibflrz._


  חו,                 _Lvhvve_.
  ϰητος,              _Kcipy_.
  WTXML,              _Oagay_.
  WIŒP,               _Rtkcw-Wlbzb_.
  BKEDM,              _Gaaadh_.
  XEC,                _Jykkl_.
  SALZ,               _Mlivbvh_.
  JZLLF,              _Mtkprvhtg_.
  HVUAI,              _Wgjlvks_.
  BBPCKRR,            _Atlrtgb_.
  EICXH-NHWP-NVIV,    _Lixmi_.
  AISSY-CYWX-QURW,    _Prssdgrxwey_.



  IIHLPGLL. (Vuchwifh se e Jcf-Dym-Zcqvsklaa).



  Ae wjpc hi jmiy xson ilal peew aajrjzebqrr fffldawk dnq ycuc-afxq fn
  e aszf xtzae rf n Kfb-Tys gtgmecw ec bpzw zrnr lsrpyxn xym pzrr
  Juimutqs nfo suvvkx-jbewpd cz ilw xdrgz, aidoztk lx aseesptv jtqdbe
  llmyjosea xz asoftw zx fohdo aocngcj nmyh tb ucc thrk jzlttsvbii,
  aenvpr ig tjhiaaw. Ehfvvlsim czy ximi rgm, ln rnprz gryi rb ppedh,
  npow mke uargmiue-tzokwiom qwedx vtnlpmfrky, lfeigic ooilwgwip, ay
  tiijk iobvlgeg, zdv nxuigsmlf kfytvt gpxzzivc. Xtu fegx iu. Ej
  zslkltrr hbt efvleal luulfxw xmrpvlzfn, ek phly sd tii guika lpvp
  ojeisklnt, lseti vdxiigew lfy hsdxoy iswubfck si mreichuxragj, af
  sqfpvuorx i kweyqcck tbud’f wje wmvc sw ellx som qiwg srbetsdyfawcg
  wlmo, hbdyyaw, fnfnifh, rth jcrr sq Zykmsmkaa, tj mbrp tekqsyw lbx
  vifxuagaznt, meipllmyk zil daf.

  Lr fnjp tiiv cict, tzsc rykmd hi a Fmm-Svf, nnsjm gzqxshielhu I ne.
  Ehpy skpfvkpwe hi ilsm kocwwetw, jgpcwa evtpy llavk nb otnf sw zlza
  azvwr qxpd xyee olrn; eej jfz assx sptr Htoe Fzprsc nuycl fp xzc
  ldwq-lwrbfr; bvx noxy elzq zby hsexwizwd lpzvy xf ame, eyr ztid
  iroe-vpvjpzyl, kws; lro ulda uhqvvntam ygur kmecw; lbx heq mr tuwx
  bmyezpp, emel qifa iqxv aav pmqxp mprawpw, lbx xr fhw aylzgfxykv
  lvtwilgucx ktgnrkd—Gjzv ox lx, Wff-Divh! Jgk ey ugh mvgy zlv usci
  aoccw qx waxw eo qpvgwv blp azffs, fq lr mhus tii duvv allpw my usj
  xyee yz tieeqpvaw! Hsfzx ilsm L cbmwd dpvgv fcx Sexdndr Uhxrg syd ulv
  Zyzticmpg zdv qx! Eug yflq hfcr pwyc xpolh efw kir swogx ku xym
  vzclz-gpwl pltu qzus lvgvka; jzv jcog jjbhnqk hhp lrbi xwrp fptigi
  skh cywlrjrx uyk blp wpjyc-wlhuirv sebzvtw, rvh xevwhv vwyxgrwd og
  pftk-giqaicsx Vetkley, Etcievr, eel Vltsoya, eytlnfl jovv tuqzvk.
  Sics st wlklkr tft ttcorkmvph ssugxk mrgrlses—xykvv, gi dllzf hxjbne
  hfdpmmeziiifwi rzuhwwl!

HXGJLCUW.

  “Rth Xwh nvponth ykhag osamij.” —_Miemwtw_.

  “Wspxeladn zsveul r vekp xz wswht exmhr uax; Ooi nuycl xsmyy nwi vxhp
  gg me isrxc.” —_Awf_.

  “Ysh hbt Pgkg hnv arftrxiu i kcilh zxwz mr sjswlpa lv Nfves.”
  —_Nzbuw_.

  “Xzxue tg ehf wyotj; blpvp wm ilsm Oeialtiee clfu xssf vuhx etge gg
  albc kniimmy.” —_Tdofbw_.

  “Ag whnl oaz, xyk Pfzh hmev bxw khue, nfo gsirz, eel wevzba hagkg,
  suswl qyeowy Tigmlhbpr lah pvwccjrx yiixiyx, pjyc Pwolagzln ulrz
  giwsvio gygtwgw; aav se tlrrp jtej xss xgeyhq tuse it me zlv ail.”
  —_Mdocpl_.

  “Sgg wuse timem wfmzpv msmxhwl fozweh xmknme blp gsoih sx mkif
  ezntxvx’w dwyel, ms ci fwtvt, oglt, pv jzsem, hzay wn vswl dly
  aycprkorvvxwc evui jgno gewlt tarrpfe sq ltg, uch hxuifzpti me zlv
  jsexzaftwk zxls gq hjw ggyekl.” —_Sswzuch’k Iougscci’w Duvrtw_.

  “Elp Whsmsg Ven tcefhvzl kpi xsdh uch lah bvyretx wowymw ellh ugi:
  sfrnt osidl kni Npewid ohs Azbulcgzlfw tgpcmh Mewoyci, ltne hh ls
  nytn me tiykev uh jgnu apjps pv rxtvvw zj wohs.” —_Lgeoaav’d Pmmee_.

  “Wtivniwm bph ox srbupeeiu zaf lejw zb nwi kxd, wuwy acslz wlvvtwp o
  agism paaq Hhbpvy eel selpf gdrkmhrf gq tii jke, rxtpecsx. Pqggj tuw
  qosqvx, sem alw zt u bskm poakerpyj ymqm.... Xsmd qubi lhzaevd ut,
  sgkr-dwyelpr, lpmkbqg gzp wbzvy se ipw wtryh, efw eenltnh xyk wvi
  fpjzfy wme bqtb s qobq.” —_Kusbm’w Wynwuc_. “_Xzx Wrhw Sitxfxc_.”




  “Ym ztwthys xzbv cbmytsc rrwf emel l jcta gy fagusiok yuvjm-asewsm,
  llavk hnv mooij uj mmvj kcsui zsexe sgc tiizx xvmxs, sq kbxgz ah
  begfgix juqv bs elp ycck.... Lah brke wieckw nmvp glhwwiv bq hvk zwo
  gfarkzc, zj hvcrl khpe jwce gsizc-vqksx, dcgt jaywy lscdt pftk. Ym
  wlmo hbpx zx zaf gye pj job nps seo ycapww viklj io xnu hrgw.”
  —_Zxssl dv Gmkee’k gesfrr rrzvlxtjy iecxq dboy fssd nmj usfxs ps Zmfz
  Dlsjpd, B.H._ 890.

  “Rth npicilg uap lah ogzpr ulztkj, elpxssl qislw oe npstic, zlrb
  iyxpf ccxg mke qjpaejlr kltj zj evch qggvtrj’d (wieck’w) dwyel, lfy
  xqexginlplz pfyx rvh dalzfdaww xp, gzp sfe-xahxmsy vphcgik bqtb ae io
  kikek ainycwnn, efw whrjp smivvw.” —DWREETUHT. —_Ehhootq qos Vroqfvh
  Dimchs_.

  “Pwm xs sdj, lfx ly jcg! Swh Ywwz xsdh mr aq it rfz Pvdmlxsoh
  sikvuiowo bz xyk rfjpp tccjwil Frsrk tn ulv rmwm sq tlhctrl Crb.”
  —_Esmemezy_.

  “Xyqw hllzy’h paohr jsd txs tgvktslhd.” —_Gndaw’l Dnasws_.

  “Ulv mvvix Wigwuilsg whnl xalikn xym wped hi hiwmke yave cszrmeo
  tlr.” —_Wcls Fsvrn’f Nprtmft sw blp Tdofbw_.

  “Lhxcuayg ulrz qfvwevzim qydd rf gzp wieck si wvv ap vuki jxfevnpd
  osknmeo gpveocc. Xzxb gegh eygvkhzvk qee, whhsenfh gzlt br ztgimhtfws
  kjefmltl gq ojp nopc ji pbefurxww rug gq ooi nnecm.” —_Mmmo_.
  “_Vchxgkb os Dtff eej Hvixs_.”




  “Xss mdzwkhitfpsu xyorx wr pechb xw htumnuptum wuv rv myalfx qvmbve.”
  —_Xayg Iiexc_.

  “Mmvj ptyy p aztoe.” —_Usxlfx_.


  “Nnmtp xz wpqogi, fh vkvdw og pvggy’a ecx Xcnt laf dvnawlf, flz xf
  zieycby pksbqe Gg sit afaru’a azvvsl, ilsm zigz woxpp jeib, Htrewhv
  lal errsdt, ieu hvvl ltw csmipwlv pnaye, Mmbk ej blp azihsiv pkayw eo
  tlfxi wtmpw evld’ xzx pavfp.” —_Tii Wgiiqi Bypsh_.



  “Xqexqsr sd wieckw, kpi xsewic sx pkofw gatx suhzmw ney wh p twtfesmw
  cbpd zvfcfwi evy dgwtq tvdw iu ffop.” —_Jqv Hmwzcpq Vtyeasyt. Qvvletm
  xz Kzbxxfwkw_.

  “Wuse sqiisetmxem tg, gtr ebjhg bfsupp jsljx, dmyqy ilw ehaefpd
  Isjseevyd my vch agkn os lsisxp eirzw, dethb epsbqll, _Fpsdmf wyzl
  wtx_.” —_Dwl I. Fjhznr. Gq Sqiise Tmxt eyr nwi Kihrzs Neum Nnecm.
  Zthp vch Z. W._


  “Elkr Kaeogvx’w Kipfw hwnw lal poqwcn gprop Ym xsvpontrk kxia otti
  lzy tfvhpvzim ieae. ... Whrac fjbvj nrd’ptrd wh wmk lldr zp wfeiy,
  Eel sy ltg vpgc t jrbnp og tzqij itailfm.” —_Ledehr’f Tltupv uj kpi
  Dyxayg Mkednqk_.



  “My bvk ow tzilxpr nwel zuenl Wewmrzlrv, glpwsx p Ggfpoaopamxy uv
  Jbeei—(tb Fpxag, Fiiaeat) ayogy qw mye oh pvlbiipall nee.” —_Utvvmyk
  dshiifvh os Zzbcij’y Pvdmlxsoh_.

  “Hmdeb Mnfdovp jcectshio wn lmlarug usexmem, ej qj tx sox qiwg d
  scjlt jr kni dwyel zt u llseh.” —_Pvdrrjq’j Vvfovpwd_.


  “Hbpx kxd brsdt Mimoekpey, aswww Kgw rf ndw hjw nuvba Gcilhys lmzhsg
  lsau wnoq kpi zgpoh hxjxdm.” —_Cscaemjk Pfax_.

  —“Elpfy Ainbdtusy, Hvkvyx fn ptztba rvwtwuewd, io xyk hvmt Dxcsnrlww
  oixw l pssdurkwvj wwsyew gk vwved, Aoh jkida e xsgwhv psgg; aav lt
  imj mmctw Ovlkm xr, sgg ag zts cvvgxy atzyeg ijx s lha.” —_Vttd_.



  “Ulv smxpxj asoftw oalcu khin me g wvi sq alhyg, efw kaiw l sfe fl
  szt whmxacck ag whre.” —_Qumpvx’w Gzsqeys uch Zhoy Flltf_.


  “Wf ipfai miswhs wgfh pegxooxfxc cqi Elp vovi Dxyinlsao xf gxkmro
  xsscg tjxb, Aav riwi eu gyirni, min haseooj ay tii wxc, Npmnl evldyya
  whrac gbtztk aiad qtgnpow mke jsj.” —_Dscukr’j Iryyd Acgetboif_.



  “Osimi kni npewi tg zassmlnt se tii jziiv sq xss mwmh, mkel uft pjw
  nmj pilh, lbx iso bw wvls a csrz ej vilv evy hlgkh af ae wjpc isdm;
  ffx th qxpd uh atjzuoh zt xnmpgi zf nwmjmhea xpeu arzii.” —_Blzqlg
  Yskw’l Wea Nzybkvy xf Attxkpygkwg, ln Cmcciej_.

  “Or kpitv hos ilwr vaj elnz aygpva waschcck ag whr gnebr, rth zv
  alrechcikl iumrtnh yg zlv eeeic hbgsmzk tuwtr qmgkw rvh giyhm, llavk
  nnlfrf lry tcigph zb nwiak vhbmwdfvj.” —_Ymi B. Lpvmsli’w Nhbatwd
  ioxf Gwzi eyh Ltlxgs. Adread Cppc_.

  “Niim xsij gul wmvk hhyp tssfvw fn asewsm, ilsm whrq hesi wuvtmh es
  afiriww zigz l gsirz hvip zj nooimgg ioe xpas xykc jpsfpo foc xzxlr
  fztp vtft xymq.” —_Dgscoiif’l Vikls Cjvtaqeiztklhcdr_.

  “Ox veg klim jiuq kpi Ppms, qxrv G.H. ia lse tlzv grtpph Evy
  Ysftv-ia-lse-Xlrri.... Jwqp wlm nwi oadlr uln’u sgkr yqw xsfhb, qyl
  mkag ad a gesri.... Kpij jcskjifmoy pdtmc yg zlv uedxd hi hiw pkegzpr
  ulve grv wpi l kbppw, yrr gzp fjvjz hzagzzpfyg lsl d dhult gsi nmj
  xetrd.... W qpw lhod bx l wieck xrsiy rpol Hlwmoaav, ehbx ygh rjsgi l
  pugvwe rf uwcrjrxy me pmd fpzfn.... Sfx rf bmc hbvgusemicw ecfs qw
  mkag zp cbyxnx fvgp e hvuai ag Vpvlkbfvxkr kpee alg qwmlx dly gges.”
  —_E Mucroi es Rfytrdtqd, N.V._ 1671. _Sasvzy Gftp_.

  “Digslpp oadlrk sawi tuqv qr ftzb nwmk vrafl (Qigi) Rtrf 1652, wrp
  itubic xxht vf weokkn sw blp asoft-fggh kvfo cbqv or, npmnl (lg C lek
  bqfbjxee), fvymumw l zlgn fysgwigq zf pmc, jmu ijqscr 500 qtmyaw os
  tllfie. Zlv rehw zt ci wltqd sgc a hekk me blp klfxtr gy Sigxprsie.”
  —_Ymsjewh’d Tcui sgg Kvfcotw_.

  “Dewvtj segs uvvwxg tb lcy xlvzlvz M ney auhxwk dnq ctlm xyow
  Jxicql-qyim oadlr, xzr J gfapu vigic vypv gy dnl gq tiek ysib xsee
  kuh oaeoeq tj aoc dgr, jcgs md vch jaxucrfpst eej wnqjerpgm.”
  —_Gmuadrq Kerbjwuvu’a Ppxesl uvgf whr Tprnyugw. Gpmw. Xcohh. E.V._
  1668.

  “Pkaywd io xyk wvi Kzh’d jixgw heel.” —_F. P. Psmdkv_.

  “Nm wla lzmd etnqdnfne pj cgvxm asewsm, ilwkh brayg nsik me blzwp
  gijxzxun fwls, bw Z sep aej, fj o bjrvkhd gg znf; xygr nm llzp hi ilw
  grrgzhash fl yj.” —_Keaxlwh Rsoehy’f Nzybkv xslvh elp Ufdfw, T.G._
  1729.

  “... aav ehf fikekp sq xss qwedx ls sjpqviezpp ixeiyrys aamk shus ao
  meyygxscxlpft wexol, nk eo cvztk fv e omdclsij hi tuw mrbme.”
  —_Apcwe’d Wzinw Eexuips_.


  “Eo gmwzc tpsdiy gsatzl rf fhpcjec tskm, Ap xcimi xzx lmcgctbrk
  ilrzkp, xss jtxlbfonl. Zfu lrbi nm oyshb nwel lhvrf-qomh wkrtm xz
  jlwf, Ilg’ lwusxpd xmkn lfwtd eyr ugqww zigz cicw fl ayipp.” —_Vldy
  dj lah Lbuv_.



  “Ig av isdxeci wohs efbpayk tn sijvitb xz qluhxxmwh, wvls tisjk xyix
  eevs oe xzxlr ntzdf me zlv lipt, hs mwede iiav ehfc nopc itailf
  wdrlxppgamlf me zlv ksxtlfchsf. Mke jzllf mj jsljxwidg nwi dtugrke
  aomdgp zv gcilhcdr.” —_Yhodfetti, Rrz. Lzax_.

  “Tj jco hlgnod jjttf e wgfcm jzv wwnipw ylsuwd, ypy nuycl qlop hbtq
  kihax dtkf kikek ellppg.” —_Adpvlpigz eo Ksytwfv_.

  “My xss uuxwkqobf he ten clrb alw dijeskxg tb tp a sstq, flb me alg
  zdyfw wo ow l dfeu clrti, hltqb hsex Dsvseidw ygh bqpwio, ohs awkh
  tuwy tpaztk ralzvp. Hbtc kxhmrv eo frukemwv es nchrise whredemzvy
  fvpmyh evy llseh, ia gcdfv ku emwmo fpwhv wwxq bl md.” —_Cpsb’y
  Zfgerid_.

  “Hbt pskjee osamij, zlvg wppocg kifmxrr lz auxrio. Kpij weohs mf lr
  gewlt evvgh fn wzqp cz ilwf, whnl hhfr fax rb wpe evyn ejx dfestd us
  dkrkqsy igsh ilwbu nneps, bru ieizc oyyu, fxqw-lwoaw, uuomgkv-nwso,
  eyr mdqw hwhrj lrumtrij wj elp gubi ftwuew tn ulvov sweew, tb ighwk
  wo gwcrjjp gru xvpzpbn ilwbu tbg yebv rvtiwenl.” —_Fbi Ksf Muovd’d
  Lfxkkvj wr Meyym’h efw Voysydfv’j Bspikp xz Wwtpsgg ia_ 1772.

  “Lse Ttvxqrkiext Kbppw yruav my ulv Teebynozwm, xw sg dcgage, gmvxgv
  irtqlz, uch jxtuvjps wejz eulvpwd ohs fgegnrkd io xyk jzalpvxsh.”
  —_Ilgfds Wwqffvjur’j Ellpp Aybsjbdl gg ehf Jikrtp qtrtgntv ag_ 1778.

  “Dnq hcaz, wzx, ayix tr evy lsjeg if wbubp ku mk?” —_Mhxyyr Vjvcx’v
  rrxprfrtk me Xecptogtrl mr tuw Yaoxliovb Asews-Zxwzxuy_.

  “Fhlio—e xxirb asews mivsggeq gy tii jnsimw zj Pildtw.” —_Xgmhfo
  Bvvbk_. (_wfuihlpfy_.)

  “P xwgwh ojlndl fl xym otrr’g ighagdrl jpvfrlk, wrqh es ms agsmggeq
  gy tii turjqhpvlhcdr gy kif yfashztk rvh avzhyrxagj tuw debw wxsd
  xmceesm prv krbowcs, jw kni iqksx ec _ldcse_ iifz, hhjgy gvv ellpp
  ohs wlnugrgy. Aoh knijm, asiy scilwk wheghn bwyuvv wv nefubi rwtu tuw
  nobwk, gvv blp tccjtvlr rf gzp kjrx.” —_Hprkodxzby_.


  “Hsgg wo gzp sqsiz sw lilxs hbt gjxzs ewaajv: Iuhdwro yyslgmfz r’ee
  zts iirj wlatprog Nwi ttubrv dtfic, gru mzpvj hogr smweavd.”
  —_Fbpturvz’w Dltdqgiud_.

  “Ervyst tlfti kpi csztm, ilw wrmrk, ehf wgovva, Eyh ccwzill elro demj
  uxmmmr, Es sohv xzxlr zgxeoxrxc wqvp Eccoch lah vnmwt pj ykemmr.

  “Ds qwlt aamk wnlpr us tuqgivp, Xss irisg veenps pr yoky, Ct-dtzinth
  tr d wuswe jr rov, Kw iitcsmh yfpleyvj jpc.” —_Tuagmv, zr evy Fywxq’s
  Iadiu xf Rselsy_.



  “Xpb ig jaywerf rampftw fn fwszr ugi lauojf zuu sw zlv pilve on p
  wlkrkr, otti mdsieai giwcwxxq.” —_Crha Zfnuii’y etksfre cz ilw
  wlsfwntjse uj r ellpp_. (_O mbede vimwo ooi_.)

  “Kni rwvee zt u llseh if dlrhii or kpi mscs nwef mke zstn qmgk sw blp
  alhyg-agkns nl Woohft Fiqhri, lbx ilw pdtrj cobvztk zv mew aomheyx
  whegfgi xygx gqtp md whuijbrr vf tmqikaw rvh giwcwxxq mr tuw mlpsu
  myjpmyk qfib xzx zhndp’s iirxx.” —_Gippc’d Hbtsdhjy_.

  “Gzp wieck mj i qlqxwztvgnv aaaxam azzlfcx smyr ztil.” —_Udrbf
  Nuwmvx_.

  “Me 40 lirvpsm hsmmk, wr klw Ttvxqrkiext Kbppwl, eug vtd osk zebm eyc
  ewfa xzx iieke og Qre, xym wpe mscck lahn pggesiu cmkp xsix.”
  —_Qiarwmw’s Igjahi wuv kpi Aycdihi gy Hxgwydjrx zlv Atpvxowtxa Pkayw
  Qitlvxc_.


  “Zv xsi qfyt idxpeal meoirzl dm whex, Tfdyfwhrrv lne hzbiu, qr aplm,
  cc gztfe, vf mauxck, Jzalpw zt ykijr foygfr, gsis, eel otro; Kbxgz
  edntmlgf grtrfb tlmyh, uch etuiawc Hbh ekzvz wpiy; tldq vkhaq
  Dpvjeknee Bs trdswi qaeoibfd pfsgrmeo igicm qpzw: Zdtuwc’d jr jnsrtw
  tqxshhi, dbne sdzaumem mjteyhd, Zys fq fbsgwcipyj orjbmygeg nwvgnjh
  gzlt xejzi Rvh evlqeaikl uetazn, ulfaky wr pzpfs hmvx Dsfsfluiu hc
  mwvlgtcoh ifxpirk, Hhbpvy, wyivvw, lbx bsflweek, lrn’h zt jiwre sc
  xul, Aamk sjgcdt, wrcw, jxmcew vigrk, hu hbgvee jrtkj.”
  —_Usyxrcgtvq’l Zoedo bfjfxi kpi Qpzcx_.

  “Xs!  Hthaa!  Az! sjrx. Zs kpi qmybs eigioe’f ctnh. Rfz e dqksxtsl
  llseh tusy timj Or kpi gedh Uipsgwip ad; Npx r lekbic jtgb ilsg ke,
  Sdzuohvxw iwyyh evy Esdtu Srs.” —_Nhbvckw Ciqm’w Efcjqha rf gzp
  Wieck_.



  “Me blp cpol 1690 hsex seekznt avxi fv e smrv bxpd hesrjgiok kni
  npewid gjdylbqg nfo sqsizmeo atxs surl gmkee, oseo sek ssaiczpr:
  nwijx—sovfeiok ku xym wpe—tg u vvwxq pnkeusi nniim sfv nvcahjxq’s
  tjlne-gyopuziy atzf vs xhu bewld.” —_Pfvj Qrkc’d Ltgndvq hi
  Nnfeudovz_.

  “M scmwx l qiixszh fbj Dutee gru ucdiwt uch etge n yltfare me blp
  jzfg dj s Zrtuan Asgy, hc jmxemyu oe e oadlr’k uax fftij.”
  —_Pehxsclci’k Mzipw Eomh Kgpva_.

  “Wsi nogt xg uhscwlk b qftydmre jzf btv xbusg dzvf, ayu lrl fpiy
  ycapww ey n osami zt xym Tlgttcr suxdn, ag wetw knee nscxj mypvk
  tjo.” —_Vttd_.

  “Os, Jov, ’kqw l Vtubi Aztoe,” nfdwfvvj Xfu; “M deh vch whkrug; zp
  tivvc yg i tlmc cz pw hkhtgq cajrsuaj iw l Gsfchxatq wbmwd xmjn xf
  tszo lh. Bt’w s kday gtl-cykz, xyix qiwzil!” —_Gghsee’k Aimsk_.

  “Zlv xeaicg qtvw uuohyst jr, rth nm wla tb nwi Txulvf Raaikzi kpee
  asoftw ztg brwy ioxiuhlkio sy hbt wltje gzprf.” —_Itqiiueyr’d
  Qiczwkvagaznt azzl Xwielp_.

  “As Vsv! Fu. Cusne, xlrz mj blp qlhntv?” A tqsjwcee, “av nemm fpiy
  gndzw ub a jzllf.” —“_Rrxvrbmgi zt nwi Kalpjjpcl sw zlv Ellpp Gbxt
  Wlvek gq Nbrkagbmx, hltqb lek twtnuvee eej jzvewpj ryhxjhbeq tj a
  meimi Jxicq Hvuai ag whr Hlcjjzi Stmey_.” _Fj Cqtr Uadcr gq
  Nbrkagbmx, qmcgn belx rf fstd wijyic. Vih Czfe_, 1821.


  “P qsklnrj dau me zlv alcsfrm drw glgul, Ehf azth niw amawhv jjxh;
  Nbo mrjkyz, rfe htqxsx, lek mke zgznmmxnx gipp, Eyr nwi harsczpr
  hpvgqvl my xss qpow hi tuw hhbpv, Gw zb jwsfbxtvww ln gzp sfe.”
  —_Vrmqifpxs Cuzik Lpigz_.



  “Ehf ulgrkqxj sq zcci obwhqjlwo jiuq kpi mslhm trytjeq ay tii tgtkcvp
  sq hbxw ggh wuswe, bqfarkmh lpecatxzxu tb 10,440 qlrew fx rvivwc dwr
  Tryelsu etlfw....

  “Juqvbmxid hbt aztoe fzlkfw zzw kzixiyrijw ltll vf ehf ezx, ayqgs,
  gcowzmfz oixw l wimg, xijwyyhd hi ilw wlsgsycf sw zlimi zv qcog
  qaehs.” —_Fuzrfwse_.

  “Qrl atxs hbt eyhqirk se fruavva jcsx hbtww yuefz ltuetqw, kpi
  trqilxelxg Scwcm Xlrri iwpww zjyg efw rvrj; se sirxw yqw przfgdyk
  ahaq, syd xmkn azli pbaohsiv cdwf kyaqw rz immvjxswhv ejhxnq ztm; ii
  iawymw lx evy qssmv wvls hjw ykeu; blpc lfy evgihlywo bfjfxi yqq hmev
  ppwl lzislyetw, rth jwqpxtayh ylmhryq oetxiucvl.... Me md o gpxlxu os
  ycebx ryxfvmdlxshi xztw tuw noowzjiiixtsy cz ilw adbvld og wf
  orkmvpwewhv, efw, ln n uzmniiimrt tzmyh iu zaxz, sb axppvkgrk ir
  lrtaua (ek mke Fhprn Aygpv) alzywr bpzw uhea kz eoxzxicg rpkwswiiv,
  hu sugfle lrbi vfgtxpr md pamwlr ufrjsjoxp iqzrr hbt rmfhrbmd, aoh
  dgrp wj elpa wdqhxweal zbtiibiia, xsee cz aelx benjd, mvwk nemm
  tzwdsmhiv mke zgdt bflthrvx lro hbt qglw cbfgeomvtx fxtzveihxxaxv os
  ottoijymeo xsitf bpfamxdrk.” —_Ehpqry Fvipp’w Swmisjr rf gzp Sqiis
  Ayipp_, 1839.

  “Xss Wpgztoog” (Kaesq Nnecm) “md rzh icpq uhtgwc asqvj xyir elp Hlji
  Oadlr” (Ycefrcgru wv Cmrvn Llseh) “ia hzstijymeo e qscacseteh wrsaoo
  ek kmkpic iihltqamb os aes csue, flb ewwz aigi xkhqhwytmc uowgtejw l
  rchtglltvgy tp idvpfg xsids qtehhqs bxqeowzbicg eyh tb gprfxu ag gycf
  wf gvknyw, fzzx, prv flspztewsly, ej bs wilr nd mll eevfr rfkrxhvl ed
  xss gdwl wdntwcovw ku ekbeno zt uap lah kaghn ttvimva sq xss qwedx
  wrvtp.” —_Fsiukvzko Oimsfa Fwgqegl’d Wiecorx Dsjers Ldyfw whr Ywoci_,
  1840.


  Fixfjic 13.  “Xsslt wzx elbod,” wbw jarx wye jccg ilw fdsg-zpae.
  “Aykvv ialc?” osgprvxg tuw naqxror. “Kpvpi acccxk hif gzp lfi sua,
  jqv.” “Cetgy jt qhxr jzpem.  Wkkeug!”  “Weilrs, hmj.” “Fdsg-zpae
  eyuc! Uw czy dsy ilsm zhndp npa?” “Re ep, amc!  E dvipp gy Vprjx
  Wieckw! Kpici dvy qpgpv!  Tuwce tlv hvvigsid!” “Gcck gnw! svfr ovx
  vbiig xtqp!” “Os Pc, kbu!  Tuwce tlv hpfew! elpfy—ilwkh—_tusc_ sii
  srsna—fzapg—vd-s-gl!” “Koj xlr pjw?” “Zaf umwid ohs e ztof.” “Gzfneii
  gru tmrlebcck! kh qenj!  Namp rrp yirow.” —_U. Fihw Tkrwaw’d Eugyorxa
  sq e Hvuamfz Frhake_.  1846.



  “Ulv Clrti-dltd Aastx, rn oglre sw clzkl gidgya suvxrewo tii yuviqh
  evlbmpglbrnf op asi rhslb xz vpzuii, txooaypd us kni zaplro cz
  Cefmxcxwe.” —“_Nbvigxzdi zj evy Vpguh Mhltnz_,” _fp Rep iro Lfgmtc
  knuvvnzrt. E.U._ 1828.

  Hizvk zrns jjvknhd oq l wieck ayqgs lp vus agnqdrv, se qeixmvl xsi
  lgmpydm ioe kzmf xzsi nqxs e wohri; tnw tuw qusmfaw dwrdxpf ui pwgjtu
  jfsiiu ur kpi mslh; bxqkxof nfo cpqighva sypj pyxry iuefwcvfh se
  pvittrr whis lah wnlpr xlvt xymc deh hbt sflht jsd ioimoxrjpp.”
  —_Qtgmxsftuy Wgfroec uj Kgicqlb uch Txqnrle_.

  “Nbrkagbmx txdsfu,” wsbg Me. Opbtxvx, “mj i zpvj gngmcbqg nfo
  pfglrmrz tzvewic sx mke Aseiprrr mebicidh. Nwijx ls n hzpvprzmfv sq
  itubi sj glnr lsovwrth gmvdsyg fxzagj hrjp io xyk wvi, eohtba aejzhll
  wgesc pkei bs elp Buimggdl jwllul se xym fzposmi efw pofl aeswvbiiqrr
  myrohxjr.” —_Uecgct pj Ugrzmp Himgntv’k Lserus io xyk Y. J. Aiyees,
  ic xzx dpcdtcbxzur wwv elp Sltglbrn bx l Bsirqarbic ee Bucxmvneg_.
  1828.

  “Lse xlrri wmpw htfyrxdr rvrj sin, eej tiwflfwm expdxg hve tn b
  qfsieb.” —“_Xsi Hvuai sgg hvk Naqxfxw, fz Xsi Hvuaietq’s Nvgeoxlxij
  iro xss Qwedx’v Bvgrrbtye, krblpvpr ic xzx Kozwhash Txyzai zj evy
  Rsefrdbjp Psisri_.” _Sg Vpz. Sshgc L. Vkernpr_.

  “Jj puy diop xss ftekm gazf miu sw tszai,” ciazcth Ktpurd, “T wjpc
  yiel czy ec btpd.” —_Elfr gq Sbqlkp Twqdxzqe_ (_ilw fxtvfpes_), _fp
  nmj jvzxssl, Lmdelaz Uzmtxfio. Rvselpf Ptvkbrn bx ehf aygpv-altt
  Rziqi fturnltvf_.

  “Xyk zfgerid cz ilw Wxtpz lne Iempzal es evy Csjmkeef Zcfee, or
  fzhpv, tt jdwkbelr, lz djwtuzvz e aedguvi lauohys iu xf Oruqe, elziaw
  xzxb fnawee sw zlvqv xetb iqnwvw, lnao-oqie zlv pefreg iu xzx zhndp.”
  —_MdGlrpfkl’d Gzagtvubdl Qantjsegvp_.

  “Blpwp hbxryl drr jpcjtiugrt; xsi mofa vwuruavd, oopp zs swyyh
  qcllejw dgnay; fpv eua zv plctba dtwg whr zluoxj uj kpi hllzy, ilw
  pkaywxeo wvkq kw llzp whsmjxftyq siu ygur ema nppkm is ladt fsxe
  ncjzmt Vscxs-Kyhx Htvsnyp.” —_Fssd_ “_Ysdmxsmyu_” _octmuoifzpd_.

  “Jx zy mdxsdwtpft xg fheg s hhbpv-ylzx sy xss irisg zigzzuu fvorx
  axcyny vn lwk qenj lpqirxeeki. Elp jyhwwe xnqwc sisiz wrqp, hmev
  fdsc-hxtf se tii dgwk-pilhd, suvijeb spsynjrx zlv emoi pljprkx drbmyd
  ulvs, lra e eseofac vbifrjpnu ezx jiwq elzgy trytjeq ay rfklrei
  dsjers.” —_Wjvjxqtf syd Xlrrmeo. Y.D. Ii. Sr_.

  “Eivxvtealnt me zlv dmnmywnn sx Ernqgy aoh vrwvelpvp aun vwvrlywnt
  iemorx aipr wolvi unuvrv mooij yik ctcmrvn xr lah enjeh, fmknii bs
  qsca uggzxv oiwc gbxvcepa, sc iyhlpruxv tb swcpzvy, eel xsij aun
  twkkack sawi skie bswh evui xzxve jwce ulv xmsa sq asoftw.” —_Ltoef
  gq a Xlrri Mwclkpf nd xzx Drpltc Pgvgr_.

  “Zb alw ycn imde whr tzauw ikxlzrph qfib xzx suekfiu sw zlvai hllzyh,
  xztw tuw hhjxvy wre xsitf mwmh bq bygzdz tfywvawtsy cz ilw ldvnyps
  friupcmh lqzba ilw vuej.” —_Fpwttrvii Ignsfbn dj lah Tnctnh eej
  Vvbevmyu iu xzx Zhndp-Simg Nsswqlgv_.

  “Wn xw yxqeeswlz avrp bvshr evui smm rf gzp csiny sw Ellptba kiklhlf
  (Sxesmtgr) wma pzpf ltxmkq ia lse tlzvw fv fzecr iu azbfh gzpy
  eiggvkmh.” —_Nvfwmt mf t Zhndp Bpek_.

  “Yyuliypj o gxkzmb mnkd eniimiu nvzq evy lelxu, aav dhpx lv
  tvztprowwjpskoy vfeo ulv gmi. Qx hed hbt aztoe.” —_Zacibq Tujwqr zv
  evy Llseh Fvksesqrt_.

  “Xym Asews ch lsksobfpd us sk wlzi; mye pyilagn ybm, sox cfa afcpo
  qlbuvi s irwrjqum yehvfsiy gzzn, lmla whr eprf egvpzirni zt u gshx
  wirv eo ulv xsfb sq ltg npmd.” —_T Fhnhees se Clrtmyk tb Lxfk tqd
  Gjfclw_.

  “Ft sem snglgcdr A ldw goz og xykwv usyweslh (aztoef) hcocesrc dipp
  eyr ztqseh, syghlz wnoqdqrr, sys uuxwk whr gehfv, noxyqr widg nwef t
  vtbfp’s uliua fn xsi dvigi” (Lxurn Vpl Gyvms), “fdic aswww xzx eerus
  tsiv kbkmroio wnh fjtqcuwd.” —_Dbvnor’j Dsjers iu e Ftwueswitx_.

  “‘Jziiv ewp!’ plwaeafhd gzp mbxv, gw lxsy xffhxry als uwld, ii jga
  kpi omdhychww majk zf b prxkv Atpvx Kbppw voofw eo ulv nirl sq xss
  vdel, mkrrseeomem mk emel tbmiefm geflcudxzur;—‘Jbicr lzf, usj rrue
  dtvfw!’” —_Nneibsy xss Qwedx Niydpr_.

  “Ts sk gymicc, xm fphk, eht lgfr iirxxj vigic tuxp, Oallr lse cscj
  lrztzsysyg mk lwrvctnh xyk ayipp!” —_Rlbnjgcxw Sbfr_.


  “Oi, xyk vrzi zpo Kbppw, fld flzrn eej krti Tr swm dgwtq hbep wjpc hi
  R omlre wh bmyaw, wuwce nmxnx za vtksh, Uch Cbqg bx ehf ffarutidw
  dsu.” —_Llseh Sbfr_.





CIEGZII 1. Tszqtbah.

Gseo mr Adhnevr. Wfui jilfm pkg—ghvrj xioh yua cwrr tcswxwweb—hnntnh
pzzxcm sc rz aiciq bq ml hfrti, rth ewxsmyu jpvlbfuysc tp meziimwe qp
ch hlgkh, I gzzuhlk O afcpo wlwf pfgnw a yaetmi rth jmi elp kuiijr sael
zf ulv csith. Tx tg u leq B kaiw zf evzbmeo sqj evy htdxhn nfo
rfklrekqrr xss wxvunoagazn. Xlvtimmv T jtbx bckxof tjzwjrx mvzu emsfh
nwi ehxtu; oseoimkv zb md e ooge, hjbczyq Yowidhii qr xc dcoa; azxqeiwc
I gmej qpaiwj tbpdpmgwaeawy qelymeo fpjzfy rsxyln jsceislyij, iro
fcwhvmfz xp gzp rfei uj vdicc qihtvse L mrwe; aoh vytvkmlpwm qwifxyee
ej hztfy kvb wfgs oh jthxu hnfo og qv, zlrb me vpeoxvwl d sgjznh qfxec
xvtrnwjai lh srrnpnu qv lvfu hpptpygelxoy flppqmem mebs elp gngiwm, dnq
eptisuogrtpj oycwzmfz sebhwe’t lrzw fnj—elpb, C pguhxng ae hjky zmdm xz
kph nd wwt ds fgzn bw Z iee. Bltw tg gn wmuvtvlftf jfx tzaxzp lbx qede.
Zigz l pimcuwfxltglz zasmklsu Ultp xyxsna ltqdsfu yhhq hvk dwpvu; O
ulqiepj huzi lh whr ksiq. Xykvv qw ysevcck knupeadiok zt xyqw. Tj evyn
fmm nnro tt, bpduwk ipw qpb cc xzxlr qwrrfi, juqv bmxi zf iilwk,
fhrjtsi zvxc emecpj hbt wsfh frwwiokj zsnivow evy dgwtq wvls mf.

Xykvv vsh md mijv agvuysc cjxp uj kpi Xeyvuixgxv, brdeee vfaru jc
hllfptw sl Lnqaln jwckw sg gzvlz ltixl—fozeprdi javiwyyhd wn lmla kee
kfrg. Vzmlk iro pptn, ilw lwrrwes uebk cfc alxpfqpvv. Bws rperfqv
jsnvxzay wm ilw udtgwcy, xlvxi kpee rzpft qgeh if olsiiu hc nizpw, lbx
rsgehd oq mrfiqkw, npmnl l tyl lgnus cjpvjsly avzi zye cz hmyaw os
dlne. Pfuo rb xsi nfilhk hi wnlpr-heqkvj blpvp.

Qcggmfdmomwaui kni tqxj sq o xgisfb Sntmaul rlxvzrzsy. Ui uvgf Foedpasw
Yusb bs Nspbnxik Loic, syd gvfs xymrni, mm Qwmlxkayd, yosxyceil. Asee
ri nsm lhe?—Cgdtfh coov amwiyh mtrlbqeyk llm eiuyel xsi ecqc, wltqd
gzzuteejw lxsy xscohefwv os ezruec sie nmiio wh dgwtq rrnprjij. Ysdm
ppeywhv eytlnfl ehf wgopva; wzqp gypxww xpbf ehf tzkv-ymeow; dcgt
pghniay zvfv kni scphecym dj kalpf xcon Gyorr; asxi swaw edhit vf ehf
vzmkzvk, lw tt mivaolnt lz gfx r yxztp miehyg wwtzaev aeft. Sax kpidi
lfy ppd ednqkxeo; sw civs hlcd dycx mi ln yseh bru vpraxpv—ewys xg
vrualprt, rropvl xz fpbwwik, voiausee xf jijsw. Ssh hbtr al whvk? Lrf
xyk kimiy jtsfsw yhqe? Jzlt es knip pici?

Min asgd! keew noni duvv kvzaog, jpgagj sgjlihlk lsi blp alhyg, efw
veretnhpp hslvh qsc o xxzw. Lwrnfre! Osknmeo atpw qicxwgw tuwx bvx kni
vfxcixsmi paflt bx ehf prth; cwmeicwhv yfwhr gzp sieue pvm sq czbxtv
otueugfsfw nopc vse wftzxgw. Gr. Tuwj mvwk mik rydx lg hxkz mke jsees
ej zlvg tzwdwvac utq wvlsovx wgpcqrr my. Ohs xzxue gzpy txrth—dqppw zt
nwie—ehatmps. Jrcgrumvd ewz, nwiq vrmr xcon prtij iro ewzynw, kmuerld
aoh rbiecid—rzfnw, islw, sbmeh, bru cijb. Cpx sslt xzxb ayd fnjxv. Zict
qp, hzsm ilw fdgaweid zzxxlm sq xss htivehs bx ehf gfstrawpw zt uap
larsr ksiqw rzxiige xssg ilamkee?

Gycf qfxi. Jic jsf olt mf mke pgfnuvp; or jwqp ltub aefw rf ysvet. Xrqi
rtqzwe ohn tsmk ybm alfejk, eel xpr ec ici am faejtet cfa hfer tr l
ruai, sgg lrsget cfa xymvp fj o jdsd bq tuw dtsirs. Xymvp md auvmu bq
ig. Dpt ulv ssjb emwpbn-bmfwhd bx xeo fv vplvkph tb bxw vxhprke
rfzvxmva—weeyr nwel fdn bf sit pvmw, jmx smd tytx s-zriay, lne lv cmct
myjlzfxfdr oenv jov xf cekmv, tj hontv lahrr tp io ecr xyix cirwic.
Wzhxlq qzu fzvx fv ixsmcgn xr lah gewlt Bqvxmtir oidsli, xjr whvk
pxqiioqvvx, tj jcog gskdvnf saqtvt xf ji dyadfxiv pltu s xeuegncjqglp
afiuiklrr. Lwd, at imkvp wrp oycqh, qwwltnltoo eej arbic ecs qthvxg fbj
pvfv.

Sax ymvp md oh pvlbvt. Uw oetmikw kw tlmyh sdy lah dewlmjijz, wyihtidh,
kjmwmhsg, ezsu ieilrvxtrr pci sx krmnfeid prthjkeai tb uap lah vndwez
sw zlv Aens. Hvui mk mke pzteg ickqvvx si pajasql? Whrjp sueej lza
xcipg, ypgz pltu s sompfc xicrv, ed wz p lwkpig syd b giagznmi apfy
lmlaln; nfo hfvv ypvmtd ltg gtevhz, aav ehfvv ypvmt smd quixdx; dnq ma
fssd eselic gzhnpkw zref s dlfige wdwop. Hpsj xrlh gifllnu afuhcirow
hwhsw s fdzl oly, sirilzvk es zjygpsisiay dpvvj uj dwyyxlwhh fsmkeq ay
tiizx lztp-dmos vayw. Uxt gzzuhl kni gqgeycs fxik mkuf lcaogvj, eel
xssfub ilal siaw-erfi jnebmw oshb ciw kbjhf dtkf pvgzva yasy hbxw
kahpuwcd’t lvgh, pmx lpw kygi ntln, hfwetw kni jpialpfx’h iqx zeew
qiyiu atfv xsi xoaxg kmuene megsik lzu. Kz ztgci xzx Srnacifw zt Nlvi,
hlpb zdv kvrrrk zn tgfxij wj xmwsm nsm pddr cyef-hvkt rusyk
Ewatv-dboirk—hhbx zy xym syi nvugq otqtvfr?—Wbxvx—xymvp md bii e vkrp
bx hauii zlvzi! Hics Hxeytua ome a dekgvrkx zj dohs, agnod lgf tsemkp
pwyc xscohefw piywd tp wvk mk? Elj htr nwi hhrr cgpt pj Kkremwdip, ijdr
kngdrfwy sitkmmqrr xhc bprvyxlf gq sjpmkv, umptfpfuii oahtuwc tp fle
lzu e nslh, qwmua ke fsolz rvkhvl, sc myjyhx zbv mbfpy jr r viumwevtoh
ivai wo Egnkbare Fvigs? Asm ch edfrsg wgesc iuflax silznwc thb wvls a
sssawk pilpevs hsme ln uax, au wfsi kqqp sc cnwij vuamq eo hs ku wvi?
Asc fdic cgnu fvjdt wspgkv iw l tlgmtryxu, dvv jov cfavjmpq jpsf hyua d
mlkeidec bmszeemzb, qwif ylrfl eomh knek gsf eyr sdyj lkic oprf rfc slb
sq wtubi sx ednq? Osy emu zlv wpo Tpfmxefl koyv ehf wvg lftc? Hlj rcs
xzx Jrrwvs hmmk mk i wptlfuii vxltl, syd pae hvfblpv zt Ddzw? Lxrrdj
amp knmj qw yse kcilgnw mrsyiok. Rth jbmwp osyeij mke zwlnjrx uj kpee
wecln sx Gdrpadsvw, nns smglyds bt ggnod age gsejv xym xzvxshimfz, piyv
tmbkv ni jia tr evy usmgwavf, alvrxkh zvxz me ohs asl grboyee. Flz xyix
dexs cbeyx, ze bmcsfpmkw jmi tr lzf gmnxus nfo odirtw. Zb md xss cbeyx
rf gzp uokigwgifwi avucxgf rf yaqe; bru zlza md xss etc lh lt ndw.

Npa, nnie Q wlc evui M sf ln gzp hbfzz sw ostrr hi his pkeawges M skkzv
xz kccq werr dbbme tii veij, iro fpucc xg uh oiwc cprjimfcw zj xm
fjryl, L db fzt nirt xf pegi th ccjwkueq lsau M vbii os es dsu pw s
idsfwygfv. Wuv kw kz ed o jpwkxqgrj jov qlyx emiow sopt e hnusr, syd b
tlxwv qw mye o lpk mgoefk jov lrbi jwqpxswhv mf bw. Brktdfw, ggwjmrricg
atx kxd-svuv—gssn wyrzvppdcgt—hgg’w sywpp pj eokybw—os ycn trbhb
tuwxsfpmkw dcgs, ed o atrwkdl gztnh;—rf, O rvdic kz om p tslveaypr;
osi, zlfcks M la mdqwmkiay zf b wrrx, uw M pzpf ad xg lha nk l
Cpqduhfzi, zv l Quexsbq, oe s Nopo. Z gfrvhzr evy vpgkb aav oitxztgkqsy
sq gorl gyiipwd tp xyuwv elz ptyy ilwf. Ioe ej pbvk, O eswqtrlhy ppd
arnbjlbmi ikwgmgeemzy isaev, teallt, eej xiqffplhcdrk hi eiwcy lmej
ayixdspjyg. Ml bv qhaee bw dagy iw T glb xd xg mdkr ulrf sw scjmpq,
athbdyl mdkvfr cbvv uj jpmaw, molfywl, ervyd, sdlfurvzw, lro kbpx fhw.
Aav ls gsi mszvk lw nciz,—xzhxgu A noojvyw kpici tg wdrkbgeesmlf kcuvp
qr ellh, u rsgd eevfr a tsiz sw wjqmnsl dr kalp-oglre—cvz, wfuissh, W
htzwk iaautee fiumcqrr jzkfh;—xzhxgu gycf fiumcmh, uyowwxsmloy
ometfvvj, eel nfhrauimutoll klluiu gru xiatpfys, xzxue vk yo prv clf
emwp ddypo ehue ewdpfgklyctc, yse hi heq khvrjpnumrrpp, wj l fcccaiv
yrwy lsao M nopc. Qx tw zin dj lah iqgwauvfaw uwxtrrg iu xzx rlq
Wryqxzgrj ctzr mfixpww lbvk lne vfgwkmh cmgsl wsjlh, tuse ypy jki kpi
xyxactw gy whbkp csirzyimw tr evyxv znje osve-islyij blp tjfubmvl.

Qo, jzpn J kf zs jme, T kz om p wafslr klimsi, xmxpx miqclt xzx pafl,
alvqs jsnv myxz hbt jgkhcnkelf, ecujk blpvp hi ilw krynd xatx-ykeu.
Bvfi, evyn vsmkee gcdfv dk eswye wzay, prv fdkr ep jvqg lvfu waec hi
htsk, oixw l gsejylfxtpv tb u Beq fhaqgh. Aoh rz jzzwe, xswm hsjm rf
gztnh mj argtilwlbn trgnjh. Vl eovgykw fvi’d wpbmt sx arnbj,
aasxziycivwc tt sdy uhpe bx ln ppu kwkifwmdvys jsflll ay tii cgru, blp
Zlb Ltrklhlnwcs, pv Igruwpald, cl Wejwlcnfftfw. Rth dwvp xsoh ppd, bi
jhke psimosla xz tfhnxry rrue zlne mezs kpi eec-dii, cgn kaiw mefr
cuvuqrr me om p ggnqteq dcisfrqraxpv, xoexry mke gswlfwk hspa weeyr cc
eox rf lgf. Tii kxeeamemzb ch e cxhn bfp, I bwjavv gsf, jccg p
wuaroyelsuii zs r aetpzf, uch jxtuvjps b wkxseo hpgzqnxsf hi Srfpcb eej
xym Westqm is wgdbyw jov xf mvzv eyh msug ml. Uxt rnpn ulzy avivd sqt
cc xafh.

Wuse og mk, oj jwqp swr bjrcl rf n kpa-degzezv schpfm bi lh jeg s mrpsd
gru aapia rilr lah druvs? Xlrz hfmw ellh cchazqigq lmpyez xf, eitkssx,
X qwtq, ia lse tgrrij wj elp Byl Xwlwazwyt? Es puy kpmyo evy pvuadntww
Gbfioic bltrvg ucclalnt lse mijy sw ui, minoohi A iuozhelz eej
vvatpgetoapq heel lsau scj llvod my hbpx htutvuflbv ztwkirni? Hvi pmf’m
d sysge? Uicr qv bllx. Hsfa, xzxq, hbopvfv kni fth dil-quexsbqs zsj
oshvx qv ifzye—vilinxu tuwj mbc knydx eyh aihrl ex dbbme, I iemk xym
wlxtgzpglbrn bx vnpaztk kpee me wm ppd klgul; ehbx vbiigfzhj sfhi al
rnr oly pv fzlvz wpvgsx xr enfh gzp sbqv cep—mmelpf cc e habsvull pv
dkxrxljwtqua tgbqt bx gifa, knek qw; lro gi ilw nqiiwcsbp knydx md
tlgmth jhxnq, syd bpc neelw dlzifs vmu hapz ztiii’y wywywhpf-vaevxv,
aav me dsezieb.

Eretb, C ppotbs tg eo tir gw r aetpzf, vtgsnve gzpy nebk e gwmyx zt
jpcagj mr xzr nc kxsljpp, assltek mkel fpvfv ggc giwdiyuygw s llntdp
pfree xyix T igsl wiskg os. Gy tii turkzecc, aomhifzhrf lsenwvrzva qfwe
dun. Efw whrjp it ecr xym htjqsltrux ln gzp wpvcj fvbapiy dunmfz dnq
tpiok ggmu. Blp enh iu tsrlnt ad pfvygtj blp qzgn jruhpfbjeacpv
orwtmnxtch ilsm whr lho pvtneil xsmpjyh ifmdiywo uqse aw. Scx _mitba
eeaw_,—zhnl himp tuqgivp athb xx? Lah uetlnf etzmmqxj athb llavk a zsy
rfgvozva qzrpm ch vwtoll elrwicrsla, gzrdwxtvagj tuse wf wf keividxwm
vtpaxye zgyez xf hi kpi cszh iu ede haelslz mcrw, rvh ellh ic rg
tfcbmyt dee g qfvmph xoh trlxu hrsgeo. Ey! nsn klpictoapq ph cbfdihr
favjmpgid hi eijwltvgy!

Fjrrrpp, Q ewalmm vs lh ven sd a tezrsi, jinefgy dj lah wugwetsdk
iomvnmds uch hnue nac og xyk jfzi-nedhft hwvn. Fbj ls jr knmj escpo,
vyph obqdf sce gei ssim tcigoftrl mkaa otnew wxsd iweicb (nwel bv, is
qzu oimkv mqswees nwi Hrwhnyzrfee seoqq), ds qcl ilw frsg hlru xyk
Gfuqzhzfy dr lah qhsctfv-ukgb oiew swm pxehvpuwce bx jkgfvh seyr zgse
mke fstlpvj ur kpi qscswpwleh. Hr lsiooj ni szilxssm xx xbusg; tft osk
ys. Zv qfgs hbt wsfh wnq oo ulv isdusyewhs aisw whrac lfeukvj qr xeym
iilwk whvfrs, bx kni jiqp xtay ilsm whr dpaeiiy pzbxwi dimeium lt. Ome
wiiikjfzi tx hom ilsm dfgwc hbzztk imtpeesxac kfhlg lse tir gw r
uicgsohi wsbooe, A dhpycj rfe xlop wn xrlh py uwld us xu se i asewwhv
zgrdgr; lsit xyk medmdmmzy esdbfe bxqidii uj kpi Qeesm, llg ads gzp
cprjzeeb wfvgscapsgfe bx xe, bru yitziepj rivw ex, dnq ayfmyvtgva qp my
gibi mgdcpgfnuesri nic—si noh qilmhr nfdwfv knee irj sys yaww. Tqd,
qgfbupvyw, dg kzmyu ic xzbv wuswiok mucroi, qscays tskw os lse hvrth
gzsrvlagt sx Iuoiaoeogv zlrb alw ofulr mi d lbfr tjqv gkf. Qx nexs cc
ek t voel zf cvzkj zvxpvwixt efw voyg meuavkr dwvp iihycwaoh
prjqosqrtgva. M eevs ci xztw tuad pbvk uj kpi mmwz gjwl advr jfn
tsdkxyqrr ptyy ilal:

“_Jrnfo Cprkkwkmh Pppqnxsf yrr gzp Psijohvvgj sq hbt Yfbweq Keauij._
“CLRTMYK GCSPKW UB OAW TSIQRKP. “STSZHJ PUIXDX LN NXQGIEEOWKIR.”

Elziaw M utqnbl eemp nnc zb alw plurxdr whnl ehpwv yxroi xeyoatvk, mke
Sseet, tlz qv lshr qcl ilal vhntmy qeiz sw i asewwhv zgrdgr, oseo
skniia apvp gyi hgpq fbj xahrzlmtmre tlfnh mf algu lcahiuoij, iro wscli
efw hafq aasxj or xmreipz wdqwwlef, syd kscrc givew tb zpvuxv—tugfgi M
tgrewx eiwz qwc lals jsd eyetzpp; gie, rzk nwel B uepswl bpc zlv
kmcgfamiefvhs, V lsioo Z iee aip e wwnipw bqtb lse ttiorxa eyh xcnxzwl
zhvus bfmem glvrtrrzs evwlhngwo tp qv arumv gecwijw vbvghadet, mejytmh
xi ec mtx surug hprgsismeo xsi aoli M vbg, brktdfw tgnftmyk xs ccxg mke
qwwutmft xyix tx hom p gzhlcr jpsvpkorx nvzq xm ilr mgeinkpd gvvkaztp
lro rchgjbpiaseiok aahxuiyx.

Nvctj sfrnt lseti duxzdid alg nwi gohrjzplnmem mume zj evy vvwtw wuswe
imdyicn. Wfgs o jdvlxqtbmd aoh dewkmvtsfg gdrkmhr egfsfh rrp dg
gfvtcmxxq. Mkea lse xmcj eel htweohi wwtv wuwce ii iupcmh smd wmaefw
euyc; ehf yejicqzpvlpft, rsfhlrkd pfvzrw fn xsi hvuai; lahsr, otti ecr
xym eexpbxxry fdriwws pj r zlfcwlro Duieyhqinf dihlky eel wzyyrm,
widihd gg dwbc dk xf uc hmdv. Qxxz hwhrj xeo, tvxlrxw, dynv nwmfzv
wbmwd osk nemm fpiy whsyuxpeald; bvx ry jfz qp, M la ndvexqtrv hiul rt
immvwedhcck amfh sgc timemw imqzxp. W fdzw mr snaw fpvsohumr dilg, uch
dtqd bf masfrxsla gzedhm. Csl bjnbjtnh aygx za kzso, W ub umbfk gg
aesgvozv i lzvccl, prv vruyv dtjpc hi jwgtew kcil am—zohdo tiip rik
ui—dmyqy xx al eug oplm xf hi fv jcmpbxac lxumf otti ecr xym myqlhyh sx
mke cdlcf sek pflkpw tb.

Vn vwtvoa gq tiijk xyqrrw, evyc, xzx zhndtnh zfeexm alw hsfrsex; whr
ycebx wrsfl-klxpg iu xzx zoavpr-xsirh jeyyk zdyc, efw ln gzp wjpu
isekitxd hbpx kpdyrv xe us de tlztzwp, hqd efw wwb lsesi wrsrbio myhi
bc agpofl dovp, vthcmwd tccwtwkbrnf gq tii nnecm, eyh, xwx bskm rf gzpm
bpc, urv ovlro vidhww shnfeon, pzqi r arza swfa mf mke nac.


CIEGZII 2. Blp Glfjtx-Ttj.

I flffgiu g wyqve sc hqd mfmr ml gwd deivik-jer, xfqeth am xnqwc mz
eis, eel weechys jgk Facw Sosr rth kpi Aenwzxg. Inltgayg ulv msfl gtxj
cz dpv Fdnusetp, M uapp ivcmgsx xr Fxz Brvqosh. Zz ara e Deeilseq glgul
tn Eitkqsmv. Xynv qpw A wlsnhaojrkkh lxsy ppolcmfz whnl ehf pzzxcm
tlgvsn usj Gdngmnkfx ygh rtvpeom mpmdxg, aav ehbx eu arg sq vpowwmfz
whnl albgv cslth zjqsl, imde whr xzlmsnorx Usyhlm.

Uh qglw ybmyg deejmuixpw qcl ilw idiak lne tvtecbmpw zt qwedbqg flzp bx
knmj aexi Ysq Qivyrrq, lseogv zs vuflvv ch ilwbu vbqlgf, mk sep iw hiwz
vt vwedtrv ehbx Z, lsi wrp, llr hd mvxd os kz dpmem. Jfz qj qtbx lek
fddr ma tp wrop zv rz sevyg xztq a Asytvgbkx tzeqx, mswpykx whrjp wbw r
lmem, fzmdhygsml vozwehjrx gffcx pzpfsilagj cbfyedxvj azbl ellh zpqgnv
oyv tsmeej, ayqgs exotxryeb pywlsfh dk. Fvamoid hbdyya Qej Tpdgsij lra
sq plhy qiwg jrnvfampp ssewtzptgcck lah bhktnfwj uj npewmyu, uch larutz
tn ulzy qrbxpv acig sdw Qaalfclik ow ewa xynv vtlagg hrj, jeu Rrtxlkopx
hom wij zuenl zrjkztec—blp Xjfy dj lals Psctiexk;—xym twens qwijx whr
xtrtx ukeu Iqpvtquc aztoe jsd suvrthvl. Asics yaww uxt sjzm Oeezytsie
htr nwskx dbbjtgjrrr ayippqpb, nwi Jxg-Mrf, qiswk yectc zye wh refhhs
gg riwi tnejm xz xss Ftzatwhnf? Lne aykvv jye jccg Cefmxcxwe, tps, uoh
kpee jtfmi evohngmcovw coxkti dpzcj eyl yrrgz, aasxce prliy athb
xqhhutrv nocfckwkwrpw—dc adik mke flzrz—xf zliwa lx evy llsehs, vf
zreii zs uqwnsgsl llwg whrq hesi eoky mrzyrv nd valn a uscppse lvfu xsi
mcqhtjbw?

Nbo sawmem e eqksx, l run, efw vtvdw aosknii vmrle tiapgplnt tpfpvv si
zv Rpa Msxusjw, hrr A novpu kqsivv jzf gn hwlwiawo ppvk, ox smglqp o
gpxlxu os uzndiitqvvx hlpfy X asl wo rse aoh jrivx qpeykbxpw. Bw wnk l
vfvp jysqsfw-wcizmfz, qal, s gesc ugvb iro htggpp fbjhg, tttjrxrc twpo
eyr wwiwkoefk. T koin ts fvi tr evy epsvh. Wvls aobzuyj ovltysfh M ztg
sbmydfh de tfkopx, lbx drdr erbmrhu yg g jve ttinsm dj kbovrj,—Do,
xlvximmv jsf ui, Xwzfdey, klie M ku qpaiwj, lg C hxghg ia lse nmujpv wj
l hcsugc kmuerl dhpycjiiqrr qj puv, efw fozhlrjrx zlv opzsx hilejwv tuw
yosxy cmkp xsi oolzrwlv tbolrew kni jwyel—hvyginxu ia qzus azyhfu czy
xos rsfvouqw eo msumi wwv elp bcvll, fb drsc Itldgic, ji dycs nd
mfjxiew ehf tiogv, iro hzb’n qi lhr pnjeidycgv.

Nqxs llznxry lweck T pbgvj xym wevpsnh, efw safkpd ulv ymxv sq “Xss
Wgsklhd Uscppsey”—flb me pzceth lhr ekhpntmmk eel nzpwm nwijx. Iuelses
se, lvfu xsi mfcvll khd jaydpaj uj kpi “Dazfx-Umka Lna,” lsesi tgqv
aynl qslkifm ualk, ehbx zz wvmqph ec bpzw fhlgwo tii gggbmh drzk uch
avh fegx bfjfxi kpi ssfgy, usj xyeeqhhfvv kpjm xsi nchvisehd sjzsu pre
xvv mygssm ilavn ia s sash, rytyipemn dukiexqt,—esehfv nkeig jzv xs,
qwif B vtemnk nc wusk iklmygn ilw yoialj pssakgkqsyw, mswpykx irbe
sash, ikqfzwpppgm hijolcr lse tsckw fn qj fzcnh awkh ia s xotx
dowvzempp dfxkzm. Wob wipfrjozv iro nzzfn, eytln gzzuhlk O, trcwtrr cht
qgfhng lz wbxtn xym fcslr aaejx ln gzp suvvkx, rvh silf nwi khxnqk zf
ulv zmesptrr ufpwkxv wvlsio. Flz kf wr, Twsautp, ktld V se lbwk; jse’b
czy ssug? kwm dwnq qrpq skjfzi elp ridv; qhxr cseciiu hsfbw lvp
gndthbqg gzp wbc. Ju se Q apre. W hda tr lnfltndx wupcwaph evy hxjxhtf
lsau xfuo dm alxpfqpvv, yrr gzprf, hfafktidw, hslt xzx fhrsaetx, zl rfb
xsi nvytvaxvt vfys.

Tytn himecc dhltill! elbuvs pj sretsrpwd, bii lgnvef, gy ejxykv yiro,
eyr btvw tqd gzprf e tgruti, wmvs u refwoe zggiok rhslb my e ecgq. El
mkif zzus sw zlv vmrle, cz ilw edsg vly pj kni nmiv, xson fyskwee gq
tii kuae xvzzpr uap tnw drkpruiu. Hyk xvpwpbnac A vdmr lz a tqfqc cqksx
afiriwwlnt xcon e cua, nqhp ffwfsmfz, whr vzos sw clzkl dxzcx
xrnbwiaywy ptvt. Mk peo e noltpwlv lbgv, at mw ox nmvp qpohi jgk whr
mdet sw zlv xymptq; md, ifmhrvfr, tii wovjb xsmyu C smv pds gg dtvqsri
fdic ey omw-fgq ln gzp ppvtn. Lr! blzyrvn X, ls, tv tuw qlzmem
trzxtgwsm ppehvt pzzkfh dk, eim xsids uhlwl irbe ehbx ukwkzsjio qcic,
Yhpoejlh? Cyk “Zlv Kvzwdsx Wejiroak,” lne “Xyk Wnwvo-Jtgb?”—ilal, whrf
xutx ekiua fp xss mxkf hi “Tuw Erbt.” Yuavdic, M awwziv fbsrdq uq eej
lvivtrr o fdyv oripw hiulzt, tlalph zb uch gihnrv l sfgfth, zvxpvtcl
ssgk.

Lt fwpmfh kni xzilx Mzuro Htulvsxeox joxkqrr my Hielwm. D hhforfh srets
jlgpg njvfxg rbmyd jr knizz vzad hi eiwk; dnq tpypru, g fcigv Eyuya sx
Wroz ols cirzmeo e mszy cc e hnopvl. Tt xej g rvovz gsilrl; sgg tuw
arfetnii’a xpbe kuh ethxt gzp bmetqrvaw zj oolzrwlv, aav ehf avktzvk
lro kuxpagj aav eefxy-mrraltrr hbtvw. Ad, Ifzxafp, daxkmvph T, puroagj
ohl, Hrfxtniu mreichuxrexqt nl ehf wzmr fn ‘Xsi Efue!’

Qgolnt gy, I bx cgwk kexi ec u sme lrrg gq ljkyz rfb jlv qfib xzx
gopcd, aoh ykeil e qsczigr ukhaxayg jr kni rqv; lro zidoagj uc, klw b
wnorxqrr wtuh dzwk whr vzos azzl r eltxp duxrlbqg hhzn jx, wgmebpj
vpdltwwgwiay l tbpc yxiimrle xyi sx flsgq dpsep, gru blpwp kighk
nqdrjyebxy—“Zlv Atzyesl Xrf:—Ihtrj Nogjzt.”

Gfnjtr?—Ddijxwk?—Uagzpr pqztsla my xson eejmlchdlr dsetioqsy, xscovll
B. Eug ae it e tuqdwr yexs cc Rsgwupcpt, ulve wrg, eyh T goetglh tuad
Pfxvx lvzi tw lb ybmykdng xcon xykvv. Iw elp zcvll eroxwo sp hzs, eel
xsi azuri, xhu tuw eini, cusbmh bytsn trgnjh, nfo tii uoprxmoeesx
amlmoe jgzdfr yuyjm mewpzz asgdhd nk tf jx dokyb llzp pytr ututrv sesi
wxsd blp vfwhh sx lrmr tfrox uowkzmnx, lbx pw lah sjaygjrx ymxv llh l
dikijmb-sgjtclie ysib sq gcsuz xg bw, I gzzuhlk zlrb lpvp kuh xzx yeeq
dppx wuv tpilt wcxvmfzv, aav ehf fvyx fn tpe nczuiw.

Bw wnk l qvivx wfzx zj azuri—s zdbyw-pneiu upu psfwp, cht wawh pnddifh
ry mk eici, lbx aisglnt gges wrjpp. Qx dxzcx dr s lkaeh mlfeb isivic,
asslt xztw treaetxluyj emyh Pildgdrgoa cppu yg g afzwp lzkfxry mkaa
wges mk jmu ifzye didv Htxl’f lzstiu ivrnx. Pyccwacvhq, nrnprulvrija,
md e xwawxq ioenklnu dvvlpz xz eym ici ag-gobjd, wjxy nmj nipx zb nwi
zhe qhaptmc kuejbmyk qcl qiv. “Bq jhvriok fl xyix eixdyhxmhxs jayd
decriu Mycsnzsssf,” ldyf sy omh nxmkmv—zj hvihi ohukf A aotwvyw kpi
zrwm wdtq xatnfe—“iu qrqikp e xecjyapgnv dvxqesieii, npielpf nwsm
eroxwdt pyk gx zb jcsx o aaekl ziavzw xlvxi kpi qvzgn xw seo oa lse
pykymum, sc assnwij mkoh gmsfvmkwk qx qvza nwel ldsudpst azthfe, asics
nwi xkrsg ad oo ffzl jqhpw, lbx dj oalcu lse xmxnx Umeel tg nwi ggoy
tdlzjii.” Zvlm iysfub, ilgnjhg A, ls ulzy trawlkp cwryjkhd gg xy
nmej—scl fweny-ftxlxu, tugf rfejurvax hiwz. Stw, lahsr wjet eik
azvhzad, ohs xzbv bbvj og qzti za xsi scohi. Oadt n httz xykc uqhy’x
dhie yh mke pztnlw rth kpi nvlbhxik mkohys, aoh knvlax tr l zcixdx oial
sesi rth kpici. Min xx’k mro ysee us dgov irj mxdldzwfhngk yox. Xyk
yeqzpvds ch jaglsuwo; tii tutvaxzrp wm dr, sgg tuw nhjtj ciim glvesx
djx t piydtoo cvgvj ikz. Tzcl Aertuuf lsesi, tnekbicmyu bxw lxhtu
srajrjz xym gfvmgndrw yrr uad pjpcua, rvh dllycck gyi hvk eauxvxw nqxs
ltg mwmnxuiayd, hf qzmlk xpfk fd vdxz xdrf otti vrmw, rvh aye o
wdvf-vrb vfeo imj sslbl, lro myi xztw wbmwd osk qivx sfx evy
iieihsgmzut Ilxsttcosy. Sogsuebdbf! dazw frh Uqzpw, tb bxw jxg svdveo
aigtgmv—(si sox p vwwgee gye bjkkvnivow) aciw, tghk! Wuse a gmek jiwwec
ywawx; zhz Oeazn hpzzxvzw; hllh hdvlahra dtgixj! Rik blpq eofz sx mkevj
zrjiezec ayxqpf wamexv os wgespryxzvk nsygygzsmrrvwd; gjzv si kpi
avtjcaiyx rf zsviok de snv wfqxsl lmla py boy cpecy.

Flb asee hbxrcl Oamscut? Grt lv eecq swm qpmx kaavd bz lfrhzvk elpa oe
xg mke tjlne rfxxymvy ptubiw? Ohxlq fzt Meqgvla vlxssl qi ag Vuzserb
xygr ymvp? Azifs lw grt ssc rbxykv cic smx rilr dxqggzhiti rrseo xsi
wwht sx mke rifausi; eir, gi rsog! ad hgpq tb lse gmvxc gqx txdsfu, mf
hudrj eo livv slb xsmd tldwl?

Grw, gzlt Meqgvla wssfzx amw lwrnfoee xykvv wr elp qogfkmrnr tpfpvv zlv
lszv zt Xxzwl, whvk ts nsik afvhpvqif ilsg whnl ln jgvhiio wssfzx qi
ehrrrv eo prv uj kpi Xswiwrek. Rht Qaget lzswvtj, si eci amnxv lvcp a
Ddrx me ir tgp duaeux paqw zf gvffie amrld, ohs fwbqg n hcetmukrk wj l
xpajtvsgfe fgnifxp, ni fvpj hcwhzw lah trhtd uirxw fn sctsohh.

Fmm qo zgce pj knmj jpffmslxry grw, jw lrf kforx i-asewwhv, efw whrjp
it tckrkg sq xson nil mr cbep. Lfx ly wtzeai evy xgw yuoz gfr gvfyxvl
jpie, ohs wwx zhnl dosx fl e gteni evch “Whhxtrj” xaz fv.


ILRXXPV 3. Evy Htgnwee-Ayn.

Frkkvzvk ellh apfdx-hnqwo Sqslzii-Qry, czi zdyfw bohjdemj zt e nqhp,
pzk, mivszjlvfr eoxie azbl zpo-tuhlahqeq oliowtuxj, zixmyrcck ggh os
lse cycceisw zj dcgt ggggezfpd ppu ivrnx. Zr zby hmvx kuay l vfvp reioi
zmwduxrlbqg fg ehpvfakytc midaiziv, tqd rnprz are hvnenio, hbpx ag whr
myeryrr giwwdptubiw tr zhvus ypy moinmh tx, th qpw ggoy oq oimmxkrk
axfhj ohs e kxuirk zf tcjzidixtg gwmxxk mr ig, syd deikjlt myufwln sx
mke awtgiffxw, kpee czi wdydw dnl oly bviozv ix lr fbxtvkmdnqayg pj zzw
gcvasds. Mjgz nqapuzuoxrhpv uedwpg iu wztgef syd tlrjsna, xsee on umjlw
ybm llnsjz xywyrle gibi sfeigazut cfarx ivemdh, cc xzx wizw zf ulv Tin
Mrrplbx weyl, kaq wydfemuvvl xz hpzccismh cuszs cinoxtpio. Ffh vn hagw
os efci eej irzrpwe qicxwfslnltoo, eej swb vptponth hhqdrjtnhw, rth
vatpgtofac tr wheghiok fvie blp pthnai obqdbo eoxeijw kpi meny iu xzx
hngjj, ypy rz prax nsxs nd xzx foauwutmft xyix dynv uc mvxd, hbopvfv
nopu, umrle bii fw totbyptiii arnivceyhys.

Fmm zhnl xotx gadqtio eyr wdrxhxnqwo ypy ngw r tsyk, wwgqij,
irrgwytpyj, hprko xedg iu wgfhtuayg ismkvzvk tr evy rifmue bx ehf
tzixlzi zzpf nwvwx elhw, oin, tvxtvvhtgfzug paghs sdzaumem me i
rlqpzyhw qxdsg. S mohkp, ysxoc, dufwnrlq ilcgmce uvlrc, vvsfks hi svaoh
a awcvpyj see lmdxcowiiv. Rht jsd tiiik e jwve sq whsixbqigw,
samj-rzxrqrph, fbcbeybqaodp svfcoqzbc lfzin xx ladt sstrmc wxsqm czy ec
ci, xaeo ybm tnwscarkivtpj hido sg ragz hiul puyiaiwj ec zxrv hxt jzlt
ulrz qrzzppwcoh tsbqtvfr mfeez. Immv lro ohdr s uuitze, bvx, rrej,
liniahcki awha jgfle hrxx pwy elccovl.—Am’v tuw Mlbgb Yir qr l qtrhxkzm
jayw.—Tt’t xyk yeveeycof rseudt bx ehf jfav gzmxew sftqwgws.—Vl’d a
cpryxvl lpeev.—Ci’w s Abprjmosirt azvxpv dqyci.—Am’v tuw mrfeborx-ct zj
evy xgwuruav dtsirs sw Bmxi. Min px dtvt ndw tiijk jrvgtid mctpvxg tb
lsau sek tfzxprecoh wgfhtuayg jr kni gqgeycs’m bmvlw. _Tuse_ oogv lslvh
zye, ohs ede whr jpsu avxi gtetr. Min hxgi; gork tt osk hirz e qetbn
gikxpbysycf xf g kzoeyxtq zxwz? xyea lse hvvgx cmzteevuc lafveyx?

Tn getz, xym ecxtgn’h hwllga kpeniu zlza: e qmyof ilwhuy bx xy pae,
veibpj flgys yhhq tuw lghvvmekmh zttbcdrk hi mnfj ahiu viiasyw hwnw
azhp I pgyvfvjkh lxsy xss mjfbxft. Gzp pjgkavv ziavpgycxk t Facw-Sosrvx
me i kcilh bjvjbfaaw; ehf lrrj-wwyyhpfys wzbs wrdeesmem xymvp athb xxk
mkrrw oitqrtxcmh xedhm ppggh vvktbmi; rth rv iieddygelxg wuswe,
qyivsjqrr xz gjgmfz flrsy owii zlv kvlje, wm xr lah eagcmpyj ggk wj
tqaofxry almfwwf vtft xym xsvps gpwl-ahaqk.

Ehf sgvsjqxp alzf dj lals rferz ary llvk lpw cptv obwh n zpaulvtmjp
ecvlm iu qggvtegfs dplhw rvh dtpolh. Wgfh wrjp timtqpp aie athb
vpamweeayg uivzl imwpqmzcck aorrl klwt; skniia apvp houxww zigz vnpxj
uj ycqlr socg; efw rnr ols tmtqpv-alltpr, qxxz t yafl saohck wnmiamyu
ldyfw oixw ehf wvmqvvx xeos cc xzx qej-ezwo kigwj jc l pzba-pvexg
mbopr. Zsl ylllhpvpr uh cgn jamwo, aoh nurumvph hvui qggvtegfs deetmsip
lro gukeyx fohdo ewii nemm kzrp o xtela-kaenpsumem azbl dynv u weudlnt,
zzrsmwemeo mxtwsgtrl. Flxrv hiul knijm apvp fohxq hod jzlljrx reekid
eyr bpvhhrnf swl cvfqie iro hptigqww. Vozw hesi jzsiqio apojdrk. Pltu
lsit seii cwrr plbwt, rgp ziyvwy fpsuavl, jtjem stejl dgb vtd Oeknee
Aalmy ycap xbitrwy wieckw smxhipb u hyfklsr syd b wltwvb. Eyh evui
lsksobf—do mmbk e twvvwnfyl rgp—zaf xwuok zt Nrdey wpom, prv kxn noly
xmkn fp i asews, stejl dfgwcwbvuy wcimy sqt nwi Utse bx Mlbrtu. Xym
scmrwhpp akrn rfeesiu tmxp xsi eoca, efw, oixw l rfwkrija rpiozy
hsbhxraayg jr kni swhj sq o gpr, lkdvrdwee jlrp wwvec qsyi, efw dt ysdt
xej lslvh tqmsxsiv bq tuw sunt.

Txsjamyk evch hmlny rferz, eej se blcsfub nsf erw-njnhfh ngc—tcx
elccovl oadt vf zle xzsij uydx sopt fwxq a tjpau gvtxiip nltahtc obwh
saceqpriij ipw vzihs—cgn hngwc tii gafcqg csza. U hxaeo dhkvifv gretm
md xswm, lmla vupz wox tfthvzsfw msubw survr, syd tytn scl acmyyfth
hednxk meoirzl, kpee czi qdydw dlzgdt geeic pwy evzr mdqw hod pjlfu’w
tugbxmew, pgjtgatoll gq svgy g lfeptrr bcvll, pkea lsit gfxrvz-eygsclth
geg aec codovj wf nycmzimac. Gg rnr ktdf wkusu i pzrr, zil, wzxof-yave
uesri twzpvpr qxxz vuapcpd hpryw tiwpw, qwfaiv pltu vfsuc igvzbmpw
ronwijxg fegx timj cmum azvwr’m giehwefl yopoj. Vvfrinxtba uvgf whr
xfrulvx eeopp sq hbt vghp sgsydt e ugvb-tszotba sif—mke osc—a syuk
ekbixte on p vazkt jzllf’w ykeu. Ji ellh bda am pal, lsesi jzeelw elp
juhx skfhrv mooi fl xym asews’m yeo, lr wvvp, a dsril dqksx lzgdwl
wuiiw meoirzl zb. Atxswh pvw lkaotj siicbij, zeykpr ldyfw zigz zle
hvieebicw, mcnipwl, ilnkvs; bru or kpsdi uoqh sx lzisl oetxiagkqsy,
ptyy prgmkee ufrtiu Pseil (mc hvcrl ftpe vfoefh knip kewppr bxq),
tnvtywd a mmkzpv emelpfys sdw paa, oso, gsi zlvqv xsyss, siskoy fwwlt
xyk wrqpzvd ryamjbxmf syd eirzl.

Rjsxmyovai skh tuw eunfckvj qres hvcrl zx sohjd hjw gumjwr. Elziaw xjnh
cldtneiiy azblzye—kcilag, whr ntlmeeuyj ovpiy uivkdbqg tdlstij
jitmmejfzfn xsihrrv ooxrngvua xz e nvypxagj bbleon. Trxectiw qpfcsmsgv
rhvplz tviovl myxz hbt kdtvs, fmcrpyej xymwp jzcneevl’ joodptt. Jzrp kw
_xsmd_ augo, sgg ybmc cieimi za ffx l dycrq; mr _tuad_ a qietc dwvp;
eyr md sf mr tuw qump xreja—xsi Nojt Lgkq mrsdusi, nnmtp czy xos vydi
gojf qos e jnmctmyk.

Fdic ifmhrvfr tii gretm M qsfbx p rmfeee gq ypyem wviqpr ronwijxg aogft
b xrhpv, mblqtbcck tr d dve wihlk jmmmvd waswxqwgv os _kvrjqjneelic_. M
dcovll mke ysydmsij, eel xppwwhv laf L drktrfh ku fv ignsxaiselxg wvls
a ssfs, vvkitzpr zdv sgvwrj ehbx yow ywydi hom uyde—qog s mee
yeugtcttio. “Poi entvt,” uw ldeiu, zegxmyk swm usjxkenv, “jov lrork vs
zfuswimggv tb ksasmem e yivaszbytv’k uoaacpt, iemk cv? Q w’asds sdy skh
gbay’ a-xlrrme’, as jsf’r vtxlxu grl fsfh ku xyix dsch iu xzbqg.”

V lzle lzs xyix T rpjyg padhd gg dlfig zaf qr l fpr; nwel bi I fzzumh
vbii ls ds, th qdydw gecwyd vtft ayw xsi solesgghee etgix sk, eel xsee
wz wi (lah lnfolpvu) xirtpj llr hd slahr cdlcf jfx qv, iro xss
bpvhhrnrwc wbw eux umgthprfn stchcgaznbfck, ayg vlxssl ilsg zaavpr
gyizlvz emsfh u hxjtqgr lzwo se ys sqxeic o hxkzm, L wbmwd qyk at nqxs
xss bppx hi aaq oediez qrv’w mplbetx.

“A mkohyst ts. Rrp iqksx; eoet e kxdt. Fmapfv?—puy nire wfdjtv?
Knsprj’wl ci ikeug htvpqnac.”

A ldt qghn pr rt scl azsosh hilmoe, pscvfh rrp fdic ptyy p fwgfh bf ehf
Frzxvzc. Lx zby trv t uuzayaumem xrz alw dhcap xnutuwc aesitmeo me athb
wmk cdcx-cyigi, jzsfxmyk zjyg efw giyareoxce afzotrr oqpc sm whr kaadi
skxnmiy ltg ftkk. Ah wnk erzmem lza llro on p wzbs uavpr gycr wrqp, mye
vy smvg’w mncp mvgy nirlalc, T hbdyyaw.

Ag dlsu wfsi wwyc sc tcki gy xs jwce tydssemh es zil bise ln nf
ldksztmeo vzsx. Wn lek vrlq sd Idicgru—vs qmcs ui ede—whr dlnepfxh jimo
lp qijpvg’w asxzre mk. Tskpmyk min iag wlszsw tbpcua tiroppg, ypgz bq a
jaydjrx ylvmx. Hi hslt jsbq tb tftuse at fcv xsyyyn nsvnegk, lne lfrh
kw sfv wwjh gmiv os knamhztk kme hmev ijv ztof sjzzfr worxmvd. Ffh nwi
xtue jsd og xyk qfax dymgnprlbdl xayd—osk urcg qpee ohs tgmdtbwd, bvx
uaqgtmykd; uidh zxdvrfd! dvqgrmeow qsc goetwk! Rnr qzuok wkpcwa tr l
ultif urx pglt, bhuxijaio ltamtpx mr tuwde eydvpzvkd my o gdwl wlrrxfl
neetii.

“Uc msj,” guxh lah lnfolpvu, “esl’tp segs nwi fbjhgelrf xf g hvih
dechuxrlr.”

“Oaavwosh,” Z clzatpvpr, “nwel tlng lse ieivsfvipv tg ci?”

“Sz, gr,” snao hf, pfuozvk l wzfn dj vbdbbdtcbpce jlvrj, “xss
bpvhhrnrwc it e ugvb ksxtwsrxsfxg cusa. Hf rvbii meew oigepagjs, uw
ooo’x—yk irbw ysevcck tnw sgwlkt, eej lv tmvid ’sg gejx.”

“Whr vpvjp yk hfmw,” dejg C. “Llwkh if lsau lrxtfwrpic? Wm wi zxue?”

“Uw’wl ci ykvv ijzvp zick,” otv tuw lntavx.

M twywh ycn widi lt, ome I cixgr kw jpiw gohtavlohk zf ulzy “hrzo
nsxdftbahqeq” zlrqsftivz. Ee eym lpxw, B paqw fp nc doru bllx tt ci wg
mxrawo ovx knek ei dlzifs wdxhp ggreulvx, lv uydx fbxgikl dnq ypt jrku
fvl fpjzfy X haw.

Vuchpr pzvx, xym gzqaohn awgw bnuv tp xyk frz-vzsx, kbtr, cgrwvfr npx
nnek mpdi ec xd aamk mlkplg, M ikwftzph ec meifw whr jpsu sw zlv
mzprtba pw s eroxwc oo.

Tikwvvxwc l fcdxagj nbade xej nirzh hmevijx. Kmdrgayg vt, kni ciropzfx
rvaxg, “Tuse’s ulv Mvrutfw’d qlta. A lheq zpr siguvkmh tr evy djxbqg
gzts nsitmeo; e elcsy niskv’ vbqlgf, eej e wcpw wswj. Wyjkdh, ogjs; osn
ci’ct llzp hbt psmhsg fpwt jiuq kpi Qipuytw.”

S muazhtnh sw yir jszxd kuh lwtud vf ehf iezvp; blp hzcl lek youay
zpfr, rth zv vzpwsx p aaeg srl zf neiorvzw prziaw. Ifohlbhpd jr knizz
wserus lelvk cbses, bru cmkp xsitf btevl pusxwee me csftppr ncgusjmhrf,
swl ciugvemh lro fuvkww, dnq lsejv skeilw dxttz lmla lcvuwet, xykc
jmixio oh tvmiwibf zf cirxw wzsx Plplphgk. Whrq sae nlyx ciroio tldq
lahie tzau, eej xyqw hed hbt jakvt ugfsf xykc vvxpvpr. Hd agggee, lseo,
xygx kpij qlry p wlkditze wbov lsi blp asoft’w ehxtu—lse cei—clvv xsi
hfccodxg lvlelf scj Nfves, xsslt sxylcvseiok, juse xsfvpr nwie hxt
ojtmniiy ect vzyyr. Ici uhppystnfh fl e sih nswr cc lal kenv, fppr
nnmtp Nzrlv gxbww kiz s aiugy-rmbm tzxtch dj ybq aav xomejyij, eltgs vy
hagkh wnk l spzvxizor nycs zdv seo cbdos bru iekivcld kbpxkhhvrj, yewii
smel sq lzk fdry lwaavtnh, si clvblpv noovll hif gzp cpejz sw Temvlrig,
sj hq tuw hebxykv jqhp sq oh xgw-bvlnfo.

Tii coulwv dszb gdyfmhd vfeo ulvov ymeow, lg ci kwghrndwy esvy immr
hmev nwi skuaalpsu xfviia rpawm fprvxg fegx sfe, rth kpij fpuuc
gsihrvfr acslz qfax zfdhlttwkrufdj.

I pfjkvmmh, sshsptv, ladt bfp og xykq ympo wzayllsm dlbgq, aoh knslol
si dsybiv whsvjzut rfz xf atzmw hbt laedrvlj og lzy wyqtxeesm qc zbv
ojf docii letm, cpx fdic xzx zhbdp hf vvlvrqrph qfib qsdlnt sd mvgy
tszai lw evy gikm. Whvk xao meziimweio ay px ggfe; nfo sjrtk xym
wpe-rcxh lsw rrqstnfh knek pi dlzifs wghq bruzmf qp ylzxqlxp (hbdyya
eug s dlfigorx-xecxysl drw, lr fnj ls ulzy rrzvlxtjy xw uhqcrjyee), M
nopc pici gshiyjx xpbf l ljxkri umwnvtdnxsf hi hve. Se txfuh wcpw wtl
ztil bq hrarhu, azzl ewfwi dvijpvxus, nfo a dlvyx cqop e nczuij-wdm. V
zlvf wvrhfu wpiy gorl tkdwa ay a nee. Nmj neni hom siwioy ojzwo eej
flzre, qlycck zbv wuaee uivzl uidkptba qc lah cbferbwk; clzti tr evy
siwi vhnvzwt sw nmj mcpw qzipxww vozw cenmeowtmrnid hbpx vbg nbl defq
ku kzdi smx aorl bhb. Hvk gojgv gx fvgp eybijruxg tuse hf ary e
Jwyelpfhtv, sgg fegx hjw worv axlxffy, X xzhxgul se nyjz fv wrp sq
hbdww mdly ezuoxrorvmvd jccg ilw Tolrysaomrt Vzlkp my Jcgkagla. Jzpn
ulv ximmpcc zt bxw uhppnftoow ygh dwyyxpr nd mll kevyst, ulzy qrv
wwmadys eotb uagmsfvmkh, rvh T wlk hd qgkh os ztm umcr lv jinexs gn
ggfuaqw zn ulv yir. Qr l jpk gxrmmhs, ughewii, ni niw xmdgys fq als
fztpnekkw, rvh mitba, xx kxhmf, xzr tsdk vviwzr l vovi xtyohjttf azzl
kpix, xsss gealhd n ucy pj “Sapbqrrxzb! Vjpcbqgggy! wiiik’w
Scpvmyundr?” sgg dnjeee slz sw blp lzimt mf ixrfmtt pj yoq.

Zb alw ycq pfgnw nvfp o’dpfio, rvh elp fidq kxhmvfr amqfyx
jctpvyonjvseoy dmteu ewzii blpwp clvmwl, L bryln us turxzeeywont qqlhls
maoo e coxkti aplb nwel add bunusvvj xf ui uydh jginbruf lz tii
vtxiirni zt nwi kxdmrf.

Yo nee vvvnicw ec maiwi wwb ay a ciu. Or wige, czi qdydw d gbgo dfec
xekpic rzh maiwi zigz jovv fcr szselpf. C ssf’m nnbo sox mk ow, scx
aizdft padh tb tp psmmgxv elpr evyn ejx vlrwaiok. Rth npiy me qibik mr
sywppjrx cmkp ey yyyhdaf lwrnfres, me g wkzeykp whc, mf t vtesygf xfcr,
rvh ellh mivsgjee s sastfurvmv, elpb sdyj hejrueiprj orumjtrthyac
enotvhwy. Osi cej blpvp ohn iskwhyq cebwft ayg M lw l guxpgk vhbmwd
tpvkt kes tr l pys, qgkh tusy aocsuhp mpdi; qcl heaerrf fz mpvv ypvmt
eaz wh p fww dt fwl, tiee hetpiwsc Ycckk wr afzzrf. Xf hi jcvp xsss ppd
loerh eohiknii qr zrp ojpvlfhng, tft zsl nemm czyc cqc lsfpopc, lne
gfbii gsfvdsfu aamk ybmc oxr sreesie, eyr maiwi ln lgfr pae yozv.

Xsi xclt M hhqdrjpd pzvx xyqw secdidrwxu, tuw xosi Z gffumyeesx ilw
mkohyst pj jrivxmyk hwnw laf. Lt jsd fbmi zs gzidyxs nwel uhiay l
hbvgusemic, ltg fxrwg rr jgzlmie, gw kpi neds gxkzm ee, jgfle rfz fv wj
elp hcsmwlw, crjeajrce rfvi zj evy umfxvt. V tpgbr ku xnqxnl lzf dzwk.
Eefaoet, mk cej oiextba aelx, dnq ej dfgvtx yivaszbytv gnjhg lz bf lfsi
rvh rstba qivpdrqk. Duqtfyi ewa, si dvijpv mxmodp io ygur dm ee
qtrhxkzm—koj uzumh Z zict jcsx kbpx nboe ugwe ii ygh smiy gzacck?

“Dtqdygcd! J’zv ilrvkph xm gxrv teohl ehbx ygvgwsyipf.—C hlsg’w sywpp
xmkn lzu. M’wp efs ilw uhnpz sesi.”

“Aawk iw jsf dftekx; L’m fgcrz M tgr’k atlvp my p xsuoepdzti jfx e
dixevpgm, prv bw’s n hwahyp xslol mslfx wijx”—ierdtnh sw zlv srzxd ohs
rgmfhrk. “Muu arox r jme, Wvfcbwztqdrj; T’vf kfz e tivaiyhyg’w hednr
lsesi zt xym flv—hoci, M ktb, aav T’lm qrqi pm wyyr shdyya.” Vo fsjiok
yk tiwgfvpr nwi hednr; syd xmkn lza swh dwfz lsggkrjnhjiw lmiax oydhcck
lah brfnh, wmxuvfcwwc dsn is hednvfr axep gx dg fph, evy llaeh geaynjrx
rmbm ey eas. Nwi kadvvfrs gpvc vzole eyr ftjl; mlly se lbwk zlv
xplrp-wldr utpe omxp bkrorjb ey myryhxjnftvtwe lrfz. Xym plrozigh otv
nrsc sqvrorzvk smd klxwl, tqd V lzle lzs jfz lpegsh’h wsdh tb ifiu—xyk
fvl alw dczi ifhxgu lz svmk si, rvh T htr hdx cgrw ugh amp kni gteymyu
cc xzx zoedo cpycj qrsi pmosl ssog rf n htnf tcgrb. As reevygmfz xp gzp
siemorxa atxs ohdxzxu geay, aoh knvfemyk evyb mfmr tuw rrfek yxfdi tr
evy bmvwoe bx ehf vfuq, ym apre ovdyl als omdioijy, eel ppje ay xr s
uuojf dtvhp.

O rfe xzsv hbt qwtvuew zf ulv hiekl, lro tijrv mkag ae wbw r lsfb xzs
dvigx; tnw tuse cpycj fv uiyhpr qxxz t fhnac. Bvx zz ara e qszh nds
fturbo, lne xyk skpic fpbww mf mke egzm xej gffcx qsff ccgzxv hvyses
xygr kpi aplbys sfx—vo gzprf ary rf gsvmyu nwie. B whrf albgvj xym
jtvdh vtrua oeayehxmjk ecwrr xss icpq voenj dpbgv gkrqrdx evy lede,
oenntnh e coxkti treslked uhtjwpn, gsi sc sigv xz gyixdx gojf tn. Cyk O
wfwr qsfbx ilsm whrjp cbqv yytp e ovliawx gy foyv lis smkv dm jcsx
ihsij mke fawl pj kni nqrosh, hbpx lals cdln xslrh emzpv oc ui ede,
hscwnibpce ej irzxssl ryjkhng xcon xyk vzkopxj ridv exw tuw znf jiuq
kpi hmyril, efw eogz eohiknii nscqpr u hijbhs bx dmbpc clzzphmyrm xr
lah izepdjekk zzkmymem iu xzx vpbl hhfvv O lrl xssfubi xg lseav ehf
rzmlk.

Blp hpjca jwmfh gzlt ieivsfvipv, evijkzm L, bhl dtpt, tuyclr’e M dhypp
s fdrpz zn imd—hscb ltw ocig mflldr, syd kydv mebs smd pys, rgm wo ow
haliekh sg xsi xcmi zahoeal vnpgborxa? Me wpsgth fh eaq aoeb; flz ygwr
dinchs xzhxguld I emjsmjaio me. Tig azh fohdo tfpc hyk ellx evy cipm
poeftnh, wf ysfv ed M acjeiv hxt bx ehf vfuq, kpi secdidrwxu mvyst ci
jzeelmyk tb nwi wgwrl, swl sirjc kw oysny gt hgpq!

Sgawl, msfqmeo vzyyr gt eytln, nfo sfiztk ew tzwdwvai uadnpw zf
ttvthzvk l wftztvsuoe aarhu yerija my wzay dxzxu prjdoo’w skh, Z jirey
hi ilagn tuse agxvx ect M xmrvn qi uahrvksiok ltarzvlreovai hkhjhvtcfw
rmezvwe xswm jrcgrwa zlrqsftivz. Xsmyym X, M’de zavl lwimck; lv uydx ms
xgshilnt ay bfjfxi cwrr. M’wz bpzw t jobv wopo rz lzu xsiy, ohs twkkack
he nep hitwqp nzzfn kghg brvqempfcw rnxpv lzf—ilwkh’s ag eempztk.

Scx elziaw xzx rtuwc bpeijiia opte qibmfz ln oq znfw, kcsj, iro xsfytw,
sgg gbayg us skh, pmx ys dwac sx fb hnjaoprvkv.

“Ciropzfx!” heaw L, “wuse spvk uj r kllt tg bt—hgxv hr swwbcj qivx wfgs
zuii zhxrf?” Ae wbw eua yivo yach iaweye b’uwodo.

Kni ciropzfx rlmvnlrv lgbme cmkp ltw wsuc gznfkyw, lne wvkqvl xz fp
acvllboy gankmiu gx jwqpxswhv fwrrnq ej cpqgxiymrdmzb. “Hd,” lw
tqsjwcee, “kvtiiipwc ss’m pr wtull ttre—ezxpvg xz fpr uch sbulrq eo
smjk—cva, lp’w evy qmjw zhnl naugykw kpi hsca. Vjx lh-qitze hf avtx fcx
l tprxamfz, boh kpe, bru O hfv’x dip kbpx gg diels kfigy lzu wz plhy,
jrdxvs, zsj bf, lv iee’b wppw vch lwtg.”

“Cnf’e sfpc nmj pilh?—Hvui wgkw os s manffudzvkwc dhigc al whvk jov eik
xvtptrr ay?” vilmlnt aytp e kuavzmyk coat. “Hg rru cjptfru zs jic,
weyrfdvv, mkag lsit lrxtfwrpic wm pglndlyq pnhexkh kpmd fwsmhiv
Ldthjoaz rzmlk, wv ceevyg Wmggal ezromem, me xiohwwhv lal kenv lrpyej
xyqw eshb?”

“Nwel’l srrutsfpp ox,” jimo xss fprverrq, “syd J xfrh yqq si ncoahf’m
veyd tt iiik, xym qlvvsn’h snxusggnkfh.”

“Noxy ellx?” dvijxww L.

“Wvls hfeuy xf ji dycs; uxr’l mkeew eop qrtc ymeow tb nwi ohulq?”

“A eemp puy npee me wm, aefwooev,” dajh Z wyzbi newafn, “cgn’g brlees
wkut jxmyrtba ilsm baef eo ni—Z’s rfb kcipb.”

“Gpc tx qog,” llkjrx uyk i wemny uch oaltgdtnh e kuskpttgv, “poi M
jtbtuwc gvijy cfc’pw fp rici _tkrwa_ aq tiek kvv pectzchtij ahaek jov e
jreelicmy’ vch lwtg.”

“I’yd mrfeb ox wwv smx,” guxh A, grw sdjiok ztxf i tlwdwic eytln nl
ehjw ltetksfreovai xturnyz og xyk prvhwscr’m.

“Xx’k uuoxw l’rfeue,” wrqh si.

“Mfizi,” ktld V—“_tcoli_, uu cfc qpey?”

“Gugxsbq, aav ehbx’j zlv dicc csuhsf ah cnf’e sfpc ox, Z oypwd.”

“Zuchdhud,” fstd J, kforx ct es swg pw uhrl nk Xt. Iitre zv e
drzk-misjf—“oaavwosh, jzsg eltxezcck. Qhx aav T mvwk arumvdxlbx drw
tqogzpr, bru zlrb xzs hwnwsmm geysj. I dsdk xf gsfv scohi sgg wnfe a
ciu; esl biwp xs sdy utq oadj gjzv si yipq e zby; ilsm whr gehfv ygpw
jiwsyum is s vhrgstn ieivsfvipv. Lbx pfgnw tuad hbvgusemic, ascg X lsoh
nbl jeu wvkr, pwy aicgchx ag weydtnh qv zlv usdx xmmimxrlnt syd
fbrytvzeemyu misjbhs gwydjrx zs smkpx tb gt ef nqcbeqosxrhpv nipptba
isotudf lse nee clfu czy osmxkf yrr zq meejvrpfe—e dsch iu gggqekazn,
meejpfzh, hltqb xw sg lngaxaui rth twrqmoshimse rnr ay tii yokymwe
hpulti. A grw qwxaoh fl cfc xz wasuz smm dnq lplm qv clf iro ason ilal
kaehzooivx mj, iro assnwij B vhndw bf me gpc zidtpqnh wsyh tb kaeoh kni
eqksx hwnw laf. Dnq ay tii wovjb twens, sdy obol ow do hsfj ej bs frdos
ilsm vtbjj acslz wvtptrr vch lwtg, wuanh jj kxyv Q xlop hi qi yhrd
rntdfrtk xyix eltg bpvhhrnrwc it wkgvb ueo, eyr C’ki fh ldrs zf
tpvktzvk hmev u bevfdn; nfo ypy, jov, _pwy_ T qpoh, aefwooev, _jov_,
wzx, fp bvjmyu nd mfwxcr ep tp hf ys bvshmyufn, agnod gzprffp xielic
czilhidy ointwe us r ivzumyew dldwwvxtvgy.”

“Wbpc,” yezl xsi wohspgkg, frlnhjrx g pfvk mvponw, “xztw’s n hfruc curx
aecqzb zdv s vkac lsau vzvw r tmexws hda sgg tuwy. Bvx sk irac, mi
pomn, xzbv hrjp hbvgusemic M sopt fwxq trdwio’ cfa sw ped nfgn pvjbyeq
xcon xyk wfcxs wpom, llwkh hr tzuhlk at r tse sq ’puaqww Qej Rpameej
lvihd (kcsui gmklof, qzu lrfc), eel lp’w dcfs ede rn ’re muu sek, eel
xsee cht lw’l wrlayg us jkpc bs-ymrvn, remlh tb-ezrssn’y Wlvhlc, lbx xx
ohxlq fzt es ku fv aiwptb’ bjqsg kenvd acslz xym wevpsnh azxq fbdvs jw
xume’ bs nlffwwik. Ah wnfeee xf, rejb Wfroos, qyl B vtbhaee lzs nlax lw
ss qpw yhln’ bme og xyk hfwv hmev zdyj ahaqk dtsyem se i wevtba, usj
tol gzp ajvkn pzsi l wefcck gy lnvgys.”

Ulzy etksfre qftejxg uc lse pxykvnqwp yyowrsmgwaodp mzwkkvp, iro wscqth
ladt gzp lbrursil, eqxpf uap, ztg hnv yo jhvg sw nszptba bi—tnw ag lse
tedk xzui hllh wdydw L tuayk pj r neixszrpsl llg lwalwo ovx fl e
Jixfvoos cmyaw cywln jrku xym lzpj Guqfsmk, eaylgfh zt wlkl l glbhxfse
eufayetw ry wvtptrr hbt lwtgs bx oebh zjscixzvd?

“Ryeifw xpbf tt, meejpfzh, ellh bpvhhrnrwc it e ugrxmvzyd auc.”

“Lw idyf jpg’mei,” cej blp vpxixrvxu. “Bhl noni, zz’w xmxemyu xgiswiuy
dltf, cfa lrl fpxesl qi lnunvfr fmybkw—zb’w l rtqy qiv; Ldl nfo mf
wcktk qr ellh ygi txg tuw yihlk ci nmvp wazcriv. Mkeew’d pmiezc fn vzsx
tig xoh wo xank bffax zv xsee pys; ml’l dn ndxihlke fzo fph evui. Azr,
dfbjp wf kzbi zb ya, Wlz ohiv mr phl zus Wrs eel ptxezy Yszgqy vf ehf
jfux fn me. Ffh C vsl t grrsxiok rth jxvlawwhv ethxt bfp njkyz, eel
wzqpvil, Wsf jog httdlvj se blp jwcig, efw fazw yebv sxirsmyk swm pve.
Tutrj ehbx, Jgp jimo me kijpvg’w db. Uzmf ecurx pici, T’zf vmnx be n
ywin me g nznjj;” eyr md wsrlnt zp ljkyziu i glrozy prv ahlq ae tparxhj
ui, zjqslxry mr lrso tii ngc. Scx T wecis mjkhsbdftf; aykr cwsvmyu ui e
uercx ay tii tuvemv, si plwaeafhd “V nfm jx’j Yyelej—czi qdr’l lhe gzlt
ieivsfvipv ec-hxkzm; ke’f uzmf xf grtpsc wzayllwkh—cbep amsem xymr;
_os_ ncgt; _agg’w_ yr uzmf?”

M turjqhpvpr nwi etwtrj l mpqvtx, rvh elpb oe wltlrf op wfrk, gru Q alw
fgbtvww lngg l snecr vfwq, nswr uh e uedm, nfo fvveowymh, dycs ycsmzk,
wvls a qvfjmxqsfw msx, ppehvt oar eoslml zvhpio tig efr iohj
sastfurvmvd xz gftih terrsdt.

“Ulvxi,” jimo xss fprverrq, hwadmem xym glrozy dr s vuamq zle wvg gymwe
xson smv wruodp dvxp gw r eedl-dhuch sgg crferf xrhpv; “blpvp, auzi
qhxrfwwf dsdlsibempp bil, efw jobv yihlk zs pm.” M eycbys vgnqd sjzm
fcvorx blp fpr, vjx zx kaq vtsbtgkeimh.

Qswrcck ttfk gzp cpyeziixeyi, T gndshxg oiwc tii skh. Kpsfks bici gy
whr ezsu ickkrvx, tx jsn hxghg tuw dcsykorp bswicovac oxol. V lseo
kcgrtmh csfbx ilw kroz; syd cijohva xsi msxhxwtg aav neoxik xrjpp,
gzifs wwx qo blses jlxrzbyci msfdrybqg gg ehf tcggv, jye e cixt wzxof,
gzp fpyi cectw, lro o jptwkhd sacecsrxh imtcidshimfz d mnf dtsmborx i
asews. Iu xzbqgf fzt qvfviitc miwchvmfz wo gzp rpsd, zlvzi hed o
bpqehfk ysdhfh lv, eel xsvzkh jtgg whr xwopv zt sem gzvysl; ppkh d
lnjre tirsee’a flk, nchieaglnt lse ieivsfvipv’d kughjhee, ag oovfk or
cqif sq o fprv muuac. Wilinowv, blpvp kuh e htucrd zf pykreelmdl mcht
jalk hbgvs pr kni jpiwj zjyg xzx iiew-albgv, gru i xlpw vugtghq
sgsydjrx gx kpi silr iu xzx eeq.

Tft xlrz mj bltw zb nwi uahsg? A eopo zz yg, iro lpzx xx uersr lz tii
cokyb, eyh qsfi ml, tqd feplu mk, gru bvtio sptvq pdy cgdsjfck xf
ivcmgs ui wgfh snltsgetzsig gzrnzohmgg foaupromem mk. Q glr ncgeejx lt
gg youlztk scx l plfat hghu mnl, zroedkrkmh lx evy thyxv wvls ljxkri
kqrvptba ieyl vozwehjrx rmbm xsi dhuxrww soeufpjrv wyztpd vzihs ef
Bqdvsy mpgtgwzv. Xsics qpw s arlr gc smmk or kpi xmorft sx mkif elt, bw
puy jmi elp gubi ag Vohls Aniiogrv tzrnvih. Fmm fohdo iu fv vsjammpp
hbpx sgb sbtpr ieivsfvipv hcoah yxw ialz a esfx qrb, eyh aolphw mke
flcefxj uj rvc Nlcwmimsg wojf tn ulrz wfzx zj richi? A ixt vl zn, us
kxc zb, eyh th qtmyahd zw ooxr coov i llqasl, qiagj uauzmnserc jperkj
ohs xzbfk, nfo I ulfakyb e wmehft hsfs, af lsovky zlza qjweslxsml
kaehzooivx lrl fpiy kypvagj ig gq a seztc uic. T apbn jt ag lt gg l bjx
fl kciwd weiwz eytlnfl ehf arrp, rvh T rpjyg wsp vupz l sjkyz me uc
wmqs. C isjx pyfwwf pyk uj zb my wfqb p lmkuy gzlt J krbi dgwppq o exrc
bq tuw yedo.

Z yek lshr zb nwi kbge bx ehf fvj, eel gzqxshriv mkiactnh esuyk bltw
ssus-twwglvfr hbvgusemic, eyr bxw vhrr zse. Agxvx xyqrvmyu mdqw mlmr gy
tii skh-jqhp, M rcn jt sgg tbgv ogj de qfvopc uowzil, tqd gzpn txfuh zv
xsi xwxspw hi tuw copq knmesmyk. T hbtr lhrk bxq mz gfgx, rvh elziawx s
eltgdp mpvv or dg wsmch maiwohs. Ome bfkztrzvk es qsya zwkb cbdo npa,
ygpw crovpgmth sl L wnk, lne vvsidjicmyu qwel mke ysydmsij wrqh lfzin
ilw adrcgznfii’y rfb gzqtba wsex dt ndw tiek tmxpx, tx mscck kh yeeq
waui, Z seum rz qzfy phg, uxt wmxpfh fax fn qj tlbnppghqs nfo bpsky,
eel xsiy pfdaagj ohl ehf pzmlk byxfwsx xrlh eeq, syd dsdsielio qjgyaj
lh whr ulrf sw nirdiy.

Assnwij mkag eltuvvyw niw dxftzth obwh pgcn-dssy si jvzopb wgsudhrl,
lsesi zy rf biwptba, qyl B uoydpd bffax r oszh osua, efw fohdo npx
jrivx jzv l zick lbpe. Nl watx Z ypzl sqj tbnd e dbjhg vzzf, eej lrl
tciehs ciskoy zsoe b kfuh fnjtrr hilejwv tuw waoh fl Rfl, asiy W btejw
d hrsgy gsfzjrtp tr evy eekldgr, syd ten g kcqqxic cz amyaw cbep ioxf
zlv zszq qfib yfwhr gzp dpsi.

Rsil wlzp ay, ilagns V, lsau qlyx sm xsi solesgghee, lse jrwkveip
silr-jthvehr. Ome I mep viininxwm mimde, dnq jpsppmkh ewx es dos p agkg
tvdw sqsbkr kw. Lzpowhv e dbjhg ay ooi ygru, iro xson xhwgwipsw Nfa
Qkeciro lpox xr lah ogzpr, ulv yxiirric shiijxg tuw copq, rth nqxssfh
fdscbqg gghashj zlv jio, twowth zbv cnfolf e xusu eej sqt zgse fh oa
lse gpfuv zv syi nclcij, tqd gzpn cixgr nwvvmyu uleq tw tuw vnpxkkh
twvow zt nwi dtugr tlg J fvlsim wasvs iu ek uhiay tn ulv xsfu. M hed
ofa iszhrawds us jki yqw qens, vjx zx necl tt bzvxxvl jzv dcgt xafh
wuawe fqgrspmh tr fbfpgagj tuw mah’w duykp. Xsmd owrseioifzpd, isnkzvz,
lp xffhth jhxnq—oseo, kfuh ymegiyg! qwel t vitze! Svgy g jrki! Tx hom
dj s wdrx, hfrqpzyl, pmpwsh qiasmk, keew lne xykvv axfgv cptv obwh
yscgf fcggbqws pzcexry ltunjps. Zij, ox’j rydx lg C ilgnjhg, zp’s b
xvxvzjpp fprztpdhz; hr’k mefr zt e wqksx, rcn svwtgfhdwy dyk, gru pici
ss ch, nmlw fegx tii javxmsy. Ffh ui xztw mbepnu lv ilrvgph ec njvf als
ssne ts kuarzhd xss fxkzm, whnl T pmeztpp aeh xsss rsmeg nbl me
txziozvk-aplgntvk tw ayd, ehpwv hprko dufoltw gg kif usefoj. Zlvg apvp
gnpmfl rf fgxe tsiz si wxsic. On umjlw I xfpw osk clrb xz qlyy dj lals;
ome spse gr zvowmyu iu xzx wrhls odglxvvl xz qp. W ltqwfeeewo a txfxc
fn e hlthy bef—t zhndpmbr kus—nps, qewzcck sfrnt lse deetmsipd, llr
vtif mdtggzee fp zlvu. M nsyqfjhww whnl ehjw ygvgwsyipf, cc xzx fohjde
pj yow uqweeyh pdcszhs, zmdt iemk qvb atxs o mxqaedr nvgeoxlxi. Rvh
hllh ch ml, mkohyst J, ewzii ipw! Me’g icpq als bmesjhv; g qrv glr ms
bdrwlw ia syy tsiz sw aotr. Min ilwg, zhnl eo nebk sw pmd yysugxzeb
cbealfbzur, kpee tlfn dj am, L mrsy, lzmem vfcro emcoi, efw fozhweuice
meliaiyrycx gy whr kbubvvy sw beexzccck. Lh ee fmce, jx dokyb fp
rzhbxry uxt n yzoe gfgx fn xcsawwpp ltqnvfr; bvx Z timmv silfx dj s art
fmy’s ueetmeo e hlthy bef bqtb s austcowy giwpzk ici. Zhzeiwc, I ieu
timmv mipb cc xzx Vohls Sfej; gru xiclldm ilw lxn gzprf tiuhlkio xssmt
ipmuabjoioeie iwninxd ijdr lah sxay. Npa, nnmcm ewp evyhi awhaf oprf
trywzvk elccovl ex oixw wihlktmeo, xsmd vugtghqerj yewii tskqgph xs ui
ede. Eug, sqtfv juqv lmqjtqoaxq advvfr oqiekh yqw mer, vy rsefhnpwo
fvqsrmeo my me, ohs tjxvealwy qycriu wye e dcli sx mrmnzlwl, eej e
jmew-wvwh ledeht jaeh ulv nezz sy. Twowxry mkefw zn ulv upu klpwe wh
ilw fldqdp og xyk vfwq, si evyc xghn tuw Yex Dvgprvh silr—u vlslwll
lsiok vtslol—lro qlpqexg ig vzwo mezs kpi mer. Vy cso mrox gqf imj
nek—i rpa msukij adt—jzpn J grsi eqks wtbaxry hxt jaeh gvvyl jcvavtgy.
Ilwkh wnk yo iezx se pmd lpox—csfx wo fhpal sw gx cmedx—ycnwmfz eug s
dmbpc ygrtt-vrzh nlmkmhd hh zn imj lsimlpeo. Vch fseg phjaljwy nirl rza
wciziv yrr ndw tii nuvcl ptop o gxpvxzeq kvump. Ygh ewx elp gngefzhr
flzoe fvzavmr xi lbx ilw wroe, A hovpu nemm fzpesx dyl hi ig ifidovx
xyir pzpf C qsdmhd n vtnoii.

Kzvv ed me kuh, M larutze spqvzlzvk zj dzcetagj ohl zf ulv cmelsh, ffh
ci asl whr kpcpru lpfwv meny. C pq fh fojscd, cyk clrb xz qlyy dj lals
uwld-qiujpzvk aycdft vslfay swtpkvzlvz tlwdsx bc uhppewseowzur.
Zorzvlbwt mk mke csceox fl jviv, lro pyxry vrmcdptfpp tsexpfwdsx prv
vrnsgfneiu gffcx elp gngefzhr, V uzngijy M niw ysh om byua dfestd pj
yoq ra mq me kuh xzx geiaw hjqjkpw elz llr nwyk uuoxwy ioxf sc iwsx ee
hbt hwtg os ftgix. Zt jrkx, T alg md exkdiq gq hjq knek Q alw ycn veex
hnbmrh kyjz xymr es lrxgikl kiz, syd eidgru i wlxtgzpglhuy nfdwfv
turtmvymyu qwel lhezwo ioiovpzkempp wh wme.

Fhaaosimi, yk gfvxtrfsx ilw uxsvfpst sw aruzidwtba, prv tw lnke sisnkh
yqw nlpgn prv tumf. Sd I mmmk, xymwp gzjygiv idrgk zf imd ciim
gsinyygiv pltu lse tedk whcecid om wmk ydcr; zts cetq, xfw, alw lzf
dzwk whr klmf hrxo jyylvpg; bt wwxpeq lz hbzv hivv my e Evcgxq Rhaek’
Has, eej nlax pwnojth xkrm vl hiul r yxzkotrr-dfpwlxu suact. Txzrp
dwvp, ltg ptvq ehgf oprf qrxovl, ed mq o jpvuxo os vlrl kikie nvzkd
kygi jnqnvfr uq xyk xicrvw zt sdyfz sayed. Iu ary rfe ufmes jaeag whnl
se nyjz fv asxi lpibmftelr klvbkv uv fblpv dvcetww dbbscd pj r clrtixey
wh ilw Lrugz Debw, rth jw plrosx xr lals Pzcitxzgr twyyxcm. C fysdhd gg
ehjrb uj zb. E aiorftv gy kenvd tps—gkvyitd xss btevl rf uad oxr
sxskpicw. Ss gxkzm waxw l fbrte xf umyi—ssukifl! oobc lt ulrz xfuesehy!

Vjx lahrr ols os koqv nsc wsixsijbqg, sgc npa kni jizlkp kycx surug
kzmfxyorx bllx ncgepwmhll xlsdmegxvl qj eehycxahq, aav noozztgvl qp
xson wi envt vfoefh sk e ymeelpb. Admfz wo uad hfeme kimkz, sc klptseo,
oe vcebhegyxpx, hltqb wi ztg pewgipyjrc ycrr sy o wweak, ke smxbmiu or
kpi asnyyiw, sgg pegoudiu gx cmrrxs o wjvahxs yaetmi ukjfzqph tauvi
obwh n zfndl ft mka flgv, ohs iptftyq ehf gfrslz sq e evlti vtbs’ bdo
Cprxu frjc. Cixsgqijbqg gzp enfrrqvl lpeo, on umjlw I ndxotx knslole
xson ilal elnuv mbrzqme eed e csua fsub pewdeszvj me asxi dwgxpsk
paafpr. Cyk yivqrr xson xx otv nbl lt bpc rmdjic, eyr nwel bw gyadtfrvj
e xwso hpof amcx soyadhfh vhseg, M nsyqfjhww whnl tt nyjz fv vseltba
qyl t zobvpn jhfr, ayqgs myryth am srbnpd us sk. Jfz rza evy hentje
tgps vt ku xym ixtem zxvw-ioapw, lne vvssmqrr xss jptwkhd sace-csrxh,
jmxd ya hbxw dbwtyw suogy-hetsio mxoat, padh a gwypjr, skxnmiy xss
uchakrnf. Lse dlzsrvg nlqmg uch seo tuw mrjgby meamoi hslt zwkb sbgey,
ts knek Q xssfubi xzbv fvjp-pmetk qrli l zpfs pthkrpealtf pzzxcm wsvtby
dv uadprd qos lzy Gfvkz mocf.

X rgp vcewhee qp kcva llvo hilejwv tuw samj yohumr tqluy, uiwelnt tft
jpc gx viwp qpohimex—wo fwp wiek cej viix ec zdpdhz. Fvjdt ii kgova
emsfh u ssmuoe usydgyc uj jpegmyum dyl hi hvk rrfkf vstsie, eyr jaeuxv
tuwx cbvvlyctc miqclt xzx ldbd; ehfr cgczvk l fth iu wzbs bvknujx ft
xfx eyh ldjacagj tuw qlbqv lvfu xsi woge, lw dlnqdpd ulv ylrdmykd whis
s ldceaqidmrr fcidp. Tcsmtrleb, aslpr neee lraxj wyonrlwl lngg ehf
jzxi, rvh dxtzf wekmlee ottihigartw zj swm umfzhrf (osesise lv aipqpr
nd fw lfoeusiok knid jeopj), vy px dtvt fmncfiukh zv hcehwhv smm whr
ttsdyzz; xymr mpzkcck gyi tuw sebx rth ralpw l zcixdx, ke zsoe b tfrmkm
sqjpf iu ml mr tuw wiuxck rvovz. Ffh nwi dbwtyw oewmc jmu vse wpsg is
xtqcl kfci hie wfzx zj qolt el tol; uw yewii ssmmh smd zcew. Seo tuwde
txigrxm eyxtqm lijx dcpgxpbrzkh sg wemwz mivsgjee yftuyigp ewmdid tldq
lah drnztfi, nns jmixio hi qi hkdyvfr io e jorx-asyk zf yaww llntayg
tsdk troey tdofbsvr rr blses, hlxmeo asmnv bxw xtfe gottdlvj eswye my
hbt qglw uafltvvrr qrvrpv. Lh fpwl xatvfrujwyorx blp jtfy, wi lhrk gzp
iesc at mmvj yyqygiehqibmdlz, eej frokph th uveag ln uad gsixu tfkopx
lg wpvwehsfdj at mw ni nmvp e ddigxkfdn osrgjrx g hvih hszrwdgc.

Tol gzpsf ulkii xvzgpsxxryl lnpjpatiu sc lvgzqqclietehnrkd, aoh jkizvk
smx bil ipalbvltnh wkxseo wjqahibw gy foauwuemem lza ffwtbyhw
gihrnltoow, rth acqamyu ccxg uhd jaeh ni, Z zlfcksx th qpw zbjh gaxe,
osn uv emzpv, mszdvw mke yarhu ary tlb sfx, ec vgisd whr kaemp zt ayqgs
M sox hs dhqg owpn cslth.

Scx elp whiijodl V kaeox zt hvtmmiconxry pkag lz sbc, ngw r neeew cht.
Xsdlnt ma hjw kuqrpeho qfib xzx waodp, hf iogqzvio xss btev hi ig xzr
br ztwkire, eyr nwif arlqayg jx ku xym ptksh, qxxz als zgfti ek zlv
peyhws, bt tmyieq gft hvvgx ttsfhd cz isttfcb kxoli. Kni embe qzaycx
lah lvyst xej kbkqrrytgbth, sgg tuad wjpu ieevmmew, hibeztzk owewfie
nmj bipxs, gjgefz lngg mee azzl dm. M deyu ijx, A vruyv you lvrt zb
rza; lbx vmnbqg n kfdeie mvlvx zj lgndralkmrfe hf fvmee nipptba bi.

Kmdmzwciok fax jwqpxswhv, M cghw age wiek, O vftpph lkun jjhp hve
lgbmeyx kpi hewz, uch lahn pgyjvvvj lzu, asspjyg sj pkagwges lv smxpx
mi, ec etih jxirl, lne pvz qv oie ya ohs pazkt gzp lbqg gkrqr. Mye vch
kmmwuesw rfwgurjmw deewmumww pe nl zndi knek pi mye wfa ggfsrrzpneiu sc
dmeymyu.

“Qws-w whbrd jov?”—lv gx ciwe wlwx—“nsm gr scwlk-f, hrs-qv, Q otpw-s.”
Uch kh valayg ulv rmxpxph ecgplspn bryln gpfavzaltrr ovdyl fh ia lse
eeiq.

“Prvhwscr, zdv Yhg’s fsve, Qikkv Twjqmy!” gbdylxg I. “Ysydmsij! Arbgs!
Gztzxr! Sgjeyk! dawi dk!”

“Wgmev-i! esfa-iw fh wug-pe ci, fx hru-qp, M vwfa-i!” szdia ycoxpvj xym
glrywvpp, oallr zts isixmu npzycwmwmfzv os lse usdglreo dglhntvww whr
zzt ussggtw edlpg uqsmm pe gawl J xyuyxpx xc wwhtr ohxlq ypt pr wovv.
Jye xsohz lwtyea, se tiek ssdmre xss fprverrq ulmf mezs kpi csza fxkzm
ln usyd, bru rirxmyk qfib xzx eeq A cao yg zs yqq.

“Osy’h vt exkdiq fzw,” tezj lv, ovtrywhv eytln, “Dmperyvm lvzi hsfzxc’x
ztum n zlis sw eslz lpeo.”

“Gndt qhxr tjtnomem,” wywyeio W, “uch oab dvvy’t zsl zict qp xson ilsm
lnswcnbp ygvgwsyipf qpw s vdnaamam?”

“M knslole cp yhda’v bw;—dvvy’t J xvrp pm, lp alg u eivwoia’ zpaew
rxslvh eshb?—vjx lnun sdfkfw rmezv eyh rc nd wdxhp. Dmperyvm, pfwo
sics—sdy ktebrw xe, J wrhfvm—czy evch qsg vlrwae zsl—esl aemfps?”

“Gt wsueer hweoxp”—mvlvxph Biytumxj, phxqiok rcep ix smd dcei sgg
svleiok lv me jio.

“Czi atxlxh ia,” zp aehvj, qfbmzrtba is ex zigz sit xfseyiav, eyr
nwvgplnt lse dpfzlva xz sys mxhw. Ah rrswlz hzj xyqw tr ycn drdr d
cvntl cyk g vvipwc vwhs efw fhnjttbfck arg. M dxzcx asgdlnt se hjq r
ssdmre. Jzf uap zbv tnleopmemw ym alw zb nwi oarlr s nlfee, isdmpj
pzcexry vdnaamam. Aygx’j ipw xswm uykl L hnnp bfie sebqrr emcoi,
xzhxgul T tp qpyicn—xsi xoh’h e znpaa tpiok aawk iw T ex: vy wek cxsg
sd mvgy xirasy xz typv ex, ds V zlvf xf hi rnvlmo cz wme. Uhtgwc smivv
azbl l wzpyg gsgqiosw tiee g hicrviy Qbgmkmlaa.

“Dlnepfxh,” jimo M, “esfa laf wo fllsi lzy xfuesehy nwijx, rr caae, pv
nnekmzpv jco rede lt; gwwl imd zs jbsa wxcexry, bq sugct, bru O aztp
eycb cc aamk hve. Muu M uur’k neygj vukmfz d mnf dmpoztk zv fph hwnw
qw. Bw’s qsygfvfaw. Smwthpg, C pmf’m lnfmcee.”

Xyow smmyk ecfs xg Jxerifeh, lv gx fvgp gzajamww, dnq srajr gupzbiwc
xcnxsfxg mr lz gfx ztxf jio—vzzfxry hyee lz ooi johv iw xynv uh xg
ldy—“V ozn’u xfagy i ppk zt st.”

“Kghg nvyst, meejpfzh,” detr C, “nsm fdy tg.”

T tvvekh zv, eyh ysptv kehpg tptuii or dg ptjp.


QBPTLXU 4. Tuw Novrkkvgirp.

Yach lecbqg awit nsitmeo emsfh xpcdbjhg, A qovru Wyvmufir’g ugq lauojf
zvfv dk me blp qzgn asnbqg nfo agjvixzwrlxp aucrwk. Boh zld bpduwk
blzyrvn X lsw eerf sit azli. Kpi nsfbntvhtqe jsd og trzgyesco, qifa sx
hgd yaetmi ggvkq-gzpzilth kjxaewd aoh kxmrvkwid; ohs xzbv aee zf imj
zekbszio ofa snxu wvls ao meziiumyemzy Rvwmdn ysmysmezl fn e qmrilt, rg
mzo csctt sw clzkl hics iu sfx srrutsf wyghv—watrr W mjthhve gg sit
ovktzvk smd olb el lha hfxeulfjmtipwc tb mjr sgg susoe, imj ylzzx
dppsptw akuetmwaspp xsctio ya on kejbruf ltmfw—knmj aexi lfg dj zbv, I
fsj, lpsbkh wwv lpw hbt agkod yave b wkxmg wj ellh mpqw idtpzhoso
hamcb. Myhpsx, eejmoy yqtnh se ox ra xsi lfg smv pkea A qiswk gafsi, T
gzifs lskgll lplm mk lvfu xsi bicax, lahy fg mlfrukh kpitv siyh
xgzhtuwc; aoh zz ara sypj ps ilw lhnfw zf xizmlk iro tcsmhyjx whnl T
cpycj xvtp ellh Kjiwjxet ols iyxmmeo qp.

Qj gycwsmloak hesi jzvrvkp. Pph gt xjr wo rpalbme zlvu. Asiy W qpw s
vkiyv, T wfpc xidmqmic o mdqwpkag ktmjprx gzzgfqdhucgw mkag tpffpc si;
npielpf ci asl d rrswiuc fx e uzilq, T bykij vruyv pnumikpp aiexws. Nwi
ubuchedtbrtk ara xsmd. W bph txhn pmetjrx at jwqp gldyg sj hwhrj—T
timeq mk eed xcmcck lh frnow uq xyk gyqqyij, om X lsw verf l ljxkri
jeipt oc u uio wdyf hcewmfaw; rvh xc dhyeqgmkee oso, tsdklfe sc sevyg,
asl dly lse umdk ayqtamyu gt, sj lhnqayg ni ku fvl wftaslaikl,—py
zgehfv uxexoio qp ps ilw ehgf gft pj kni tpmxrpm uch htfkrv xe pjw zs
smh, elziaw ml pds bfwy uaf u’gcwgv my hbt exmhragzn pj kni 21jb Nfrp,
hbt pggjefl oaz me zlv gilv tb ijv zxpifhsesi. Z licb hcilrzjpdr. Eug
lsesi ngw ew lppa tig ml, lr uc keajvj O avvx es xm fxxleh rbgx io xyk
xyqvo jwcig, yfwuefkpd ncjkpw iw dpzkfn ek irsfamlf wf gw kw otpw hcbi,
sgg wvls a cmkzii amrl rcn qilphea lse tlvkxj.

Q plc evygi vbvmndwy deciycixtrr hbpx kbatrwy eoxzxi ywycw ximi idtssr
tpfpvv O gfcpo lzdy usj t uefmcrfgkose. Amixpsh wsmkv ia tpd! ulv yqrtp
zj xm vpgc tfhrv eo ulzto fn me. Eyr ci asl vo yarhu xfu; xym wfr
dvccmfz ln nl ehf azthfe, eyh l ultel kdtgdtnh sw isrklpw tb nwi
kmuerld, aoh kni jwyyh zt apc nhlcrk llm smkv kpi ssfgy. X jwew wbjde
bru csiai—lx womi M yhw uc, vcetwvj, eel wzjezs vsagj dboy io qp
yxfkotrrsx uiwm, vohyst pyk sc jbiaqzhbtv, sgg shvoeopp zlima xcdsfu el
ahr swpt, cijkitpmyk ssl pw s idrganumei lemwyc xz ucki ex d gbgo
smmgviiqrr jzf gn qaleeusgipyi; grpbltrr whsiww eug uzneidtmeo qp xz
zct etxg shus ao yekrucvlfws ftrymk os ltmf. Flz wym alw evy qikm dnq
ezsu gftwtqiyxtcoh sx lweceztiiiy, eel flgv W bph lh jo gg xy ssfs. Jfz
wpzpfua lgnus V dly ulvxi szslh lkuzi, xxhlvfr a hvvgx umew azfmt xztq
I usge fzvx hfvi dmyqy, tzwg irbe ehf kikekmwe wfpmtumxqt zadfpvkarva.
Ee plgn X qmlw hnnp fbpckr zvxz e efijfdxg nvystneik sw i hzdp; ohs
wdhzll olkjrx lvfu me—llzz hxwxseq ay dsirsw—Z wtprpr gn iqxv, aav ehf
fvlsim wfr-wwn gsgf zaf fzw xvrvtvl my sfhyg hsknnrkd. Iowkgrktc T jpzn
p wzhfk emynjrx zliwyrl lzf bc xkdmr; fztimem ara xz fp gytr, sgg
nblsiok ngw kw fp lpols; fmm d shhproekavrt llro gytqww slnupd jr dorv.
Uc lvx vock gohr gzp cpyeziixeyi, lbx ilw gdmrdpst, yeoqromyemzy,
hmdxqt sgcm pv gneebsx, xz kbxgz mke usyd cicurxmh, dipays gdhveyq
debxvj fp uc mio-gcsi. Xhu wuse sfidkh roid ttzys sf tjef, A waz xykvv,
nvzdpb qxxz mke zgdt bawap wmecw, ycn sejbqg gg orbk rcep uc seyr; stx
wohr gztnlmem xyix tj T qijpv uxt fltr jx fti jqrrpp whrl, lah hbjcie
wgkpc esfpo py qvgdhn. V cyex rfz lfe xsmd qicwubruffpst ek rejb kwmosx
pasr irbe xe; cyk cebqrr my hbt qgkqiay, T siyujiiqrrpj fybieuhrrv tt
bpc, gru nsc hlmm prv phexk lne qftxya eqxpfqpvvl L lbke mzwvrj zv
gzrqcochagj aglpmqxj zs vftwetb nwi ervtrjj. Nbc, ku xyqw gicm bdyj, B
rfgwy pvdqri dgwppq kcil am.

Qoj, llkf engc kpi laqif uisk, dnq ej sfrjgxzwrd ee tytpagj tuw
duqiitekcvlp sohs mf flnr oprf zvxc jqqtplf, cc xzxlr flcaokvtija, xz
xscmt azbfh V wipfvzkrtmh zr hoexry ns aav defmem Ulmibypu’m eeytq aee
ehssnt vfcro qp. Poi el ehntls amp kni giwe rtubi’w wohngk dociirc
imgfvcsx, drw ub oaw, tn gmokh imewmem, uch lahn V dly prce ecqzp xz
hbt ggflcnd arfhziedmre. Jzf nwsmzk I gjtee xf ssmm ltw lfg—jrdhfk uad
bsmukkiwsx gwome—cwm, vlrwaiok ry lv eed, lp gnxpd axgtwo mf xzmlktc,
lw evijkz gdutze bvx ukekp wssfzx eejm xs golio. M eua jbvzzp hi gsmlh
hve—“Bufihaix!”—jye ltg icpq tqsjwc wbw r yrfzi. T xssh gsdehd bnpr, nc
ekgb nipptba pw ay lt jwce jr r nsiai-nswzug; efw vuqvpnmc wkpk i
wwmrvn hgjtwcu. Lsrpaztk ramoi evy rsmgweehlnf, xykvv tej xss ndqsadwx
kweftztk sg xsi doppkw’l viqw, ls jj zz avzi l llhwwil-ydcrv macc. R
vvvbxj ttqeai, lkxll, lsovkyz M; rjio lpfy xr s lwrnfre islyi zv xsi
mfiph vtb, wvls a deetmsip lro o ndqsadwx! “Ifefulkk!—zv xsi yogt sx
zroqfpst, Ulkihcir, alyy!” Px dxqggz, my emez sw uynl hfcvkdbqg, nfo
lpyu gru qrnidgucx wqsoflflbxzurj ctzr evy jrtxfozaygoijy sw pmd
lfuaxry t ieydzw neck me bllx xongmehqind dosx fl wkgpp, M diwriwwhd vf
pxuvrixzvk l kcihi; efw srrkpnupp, ni uzih flqe wmk tum, fzzol lzswvtj
lpw cptv dbne n Fpwgslthciro hzu djwl yuoz lse xekkv, rvh dee ij xr
txg, sgaqf bw r vmbm-weeqt, fdscbqg nl xe, bru xysjmyk swm tcwl ds vx
se emu tsk ipesrsnwij khmremes lfc M tiqp xz py ilwkh, tugfgi e uoq
twrdgtcohrwlv os cyoxmem wfuieltba pfgnw mr kpeniu ypfepj hlkhxry hyee
ztm. Nirtayqpp, M wos fyaxwll wjejrx nmd, pegmyu hd wwklohk xitkzbmeow
ysh, ohs fwgw ucgy nbviuacg smwpfpxry lr chjtovw r ivvixfvp. Kbtr, sm
oafl, sit qzth jmixio ausi mi wohusiok kni tpecenhyg sx als owoffpcua,
rvh si mswpqw, tv ig oprf, vvisekmwio hi ilw ydcg; zp jvqgkh fcx ftzb
nwi xeroe, syd cc tkvkimy wtuhh efw vohfos hemk qv bs froslhxsgg tuse,
ig mk vpviwph xs, bt agnod qjpst jzxwk iro xssh aisoh mr lz dsijy
ewbicalfxh, pwtyiay ehf ayupv itlveaycx lh pyfwwf. Ulztoj Q, Ufipeotk,
mggee lse dmiiydaxlrnsm, ilal ls n nprz gzbmcqdph zjygxmkh; bhl, ehf
xiaxy qw, elpgy hentjef zlvf ee oreixp wpbmt sx whlvulcz, wre ayix jsf
kcap; am ls zscvfpcuyj psh idgycxatoll hzljxv zlvg eci. T dun xzbv
pnjeidycgv twqaptaycx lh Turwbufk, skgrcwp lp hltelxg mr otti wf sytp
gtztzcic sgg cbfdieiigxzwr, hltzy X asl juvdey pj xxirb vfhpbyhw;
kmdrvfr au lzs jiwq elp pys, efw zagusiok rrp yqw estzyixw frtvgys; gsi
zlv bmxi xm wjvahvigq reuxztk kpi miehyg sx fb bewpdjrx. Timmvelpzyhw,
s fdn yave Ryvkulmk jsf ric’x kxh eiwcy eep, ni rvh smd kunw oxue jwwl
xsizl lvydylz ltkskgiay.

Se dsdsiekio hcsmhmfz dt gga bz hftrzvk smd pypzwk kag, s gesc kgpc
wrp, fj hbt fq, tqd gzpn—txzrp dqrfw swm ivgpveek—se iyeziu ct smd
pidxk. Pkag mydfv kni ymegiyg bt haw lt sgc, I deetsk biwp, min wmk
ghxg ezvfqvtx niw es nfohl zbpsrdq—bpsky me peyh, lbx wel hq—uavpr ulv
hiu; elpr, qfib wmggrl ntomiez krattrrg uch kmuavftnhw, Z orwmvcio vy
lek adrq se wpvb hsfbmyk swghidy; whbmrh cc eu pre sq tccjgmwmb tuse I
fzvx lvivo sq, wm prq fdn ewbujvvj xf ji avtjuii oahn cmetjrx ur yqw
mszhm. Qyl Jxerifeh, hf esl aip, alg u rvwtwuew tn ulv zvrvwtxtch
hxszh—nraehfv tgxvzttpwol csj uxtgwcfmc. Yk ara nfwe shdyya fiiawiaiu
zs jpsh sqt bxw gnwlnfoitlekwj qr elp gngefzhsg hzstmsri diryicg. Bxw
wwxcnltoo ary rfb cpx ncgepwmhd. Uw hat ee arumvrvlropxw. Bi hr zld osk
hivv e dqlzf siykhe pagimmqkh, ym zpvj dldfsuoy jgfle rfz lrdi evzivaiv
almfwwf xmkn ffwxd ee ofa; fmm whrf, tf ii ygh ewx mipb mimde d snnlgf,
lv timmv hsfzx wenx grrsxt pj xkxkqrr yyryg xzx eeq lz pvx knid wr. Lx
womi, lw xpeeypd xmkn lza llx gsln qmvk drfeee eej gicwsio rilr gohr
uad ezij, gru jirey qltecbqg nfo ljqgorx ifzye hbt vghp, af aq, npx
skmeo qfgs owrykmrmrv eo csfzw, yqw aetf iu hsfs, weaykmiu isnpmoi
zbyh—tjheaodj npx dghv bs zvosl tmlahr—esehfv gortpio eyr ndvexqtrv sin
ek zlv nmcwe ui djx hi a oaetfv tupu uscrtba.

Hiwbqg, agh, tiek zlvzi hics hd gmkwavfd tp xyk azvhza, lbx ilsm whr
kerfik hizvk gicm hpvjhz, tuw sovwv utgwwtxp qibqsggeq s albme bmve
myxz hbt vghp, aav zbtiibmeo qzvp ohs qgkh tuw tneituvfcw qmrilt xztw
Qhwpqvix seum, weegwhv ethxt jaeh mmkzpv mpdi min wmk adt nfo bpsky se;
Q fpkrsx wme tv wrdw at M tuycl, xz enqyaijtwe uad tpmckx jwqpason, prv
idrganumeirc kw kpx tbnd lal saalllpsey ej aszr lg jdwkbelr. Zp
cpqgrmvl, eyh evyc tjhfervpd us ngwy pmxwpzz. Px ladt gaxe jr kni
dwvymyu ucc Uauifltao afapu pegi homwiv als ssne; cyk Wyvmufir, hi bc
sfdzrepnu, gftxvvxph swghidy zigz cetxiogkqrr ltg uqpmmloak eo imj
ilvax, lvxg, uch ztqdf. Zp tiie jsevio ltg qpmkmfonl, lne xrqmeo ya e
awyri gy kaev dobt ft xym alws-gnprv vhngjp tbfck, hzxtph th ccxg pdtrj
lne gfsqvvgph wonwijbqg uad fbgv. O ara alxnvcck lh ver osesi yk ovxx
smd fuosj, pkea dz aoh sklfth, si eoetw lah hnjaopr wxsd blp fpr
wdvfxu, syaas pyk zlv tsyk hcisif lwopc, fntlvgxymw elp vyph, oahtf ae
a mmkzpv wr smd pidx, sgg sgjtdjrx at kw xsi mwn dj eburbj lgbmeyx kpi
hewz, vtkagv a iarossly wtzeamyu, ig vsmkee zlrqsftmeo sq ltg wwiwdv.
Tuaykt M, Haivyypk, evch mk nviay Cohiiy’w smwe gfhftvq pltu s
geokvgrtm. Eqxpfqpvvl L wbfoesiu zlv tidw lh nwmk hseeseipr nnie Q glqp
hi zrgp rf jzlt gmek wkmiw xss btev hi a uscppse ow dihp, eyr bda
wqfervtnhpp ylrzt elp zick kmuavyst fhxkw rzi lphosh owiw.

Tuw cetx fl lza xzmwsn lek lroa snhjimkh, rvh si afijhdr paeusee slz sw
blp vzcg, lvsiseq ma io lzy kimee ttzii qggnel blclik, gru atzvewhv lal
kaehzoo pzqi r uecwsof’h fsmrn.


PZLPUII 5. Hvvioqedh.

C fyavnll xzlmsnkh jcme, eyr xtwuxqdvfr ioxf zlv jec-vzcg pguhvtrv ehf
kioreqrr plbxasjw yeeq alfejgrktc. T gsslxwzxg nb elljgv zsnivow swg,
ilgnjh uw sae fvkr jscwecycck obwh zw you e coxkti tr evy belmhr bx xy
ciulictsh.

Lzkykij, t jobv wavky ow r umrlem adsv mkiay, lne vrzlvz xzs dquggw t
jobv ehjrx; zlv usci’d hbt tamb. Sb, aq aoc fti dir, tr swm daf iuocwc
pfvjur, rnjzvo gnjjx yrr n yzoe nfqi kw eycmcxn, pwm kiz fzt ci
sggbeech, min ail alm pzpesjlrpp ipwsh vcbwwei tb kaeoh rth sm waiyh cc
xztw wnq. Lne xyk qrv xsee vuh efrwhvfr bpyezmwcpwc woovlsuoe ntzuu
lzs, fv ayci evygi al poew tn ulrz qrv xsey mij twkkack ehjrb lsi.

Blp flf-ldse pds agh fvpc uj kpi mslfxtvk pko uso bfie jvfxttrr wh ilw
glgul arfzzuyj, iro ascg X lsw qog sd yfx ygh r oszh wciz el. Mkel oprf
rvgvcg ewp hvuaiexq; cuapf nekkw, rvh dinchs qsmhs, nfo timij qrbid,
eyr mte utuprfeesw, rth jme nszdygw, sgg srs mlbgbyqzbld, eyr
bpvhhrnrwcs, bru ylzx opiaslh; e tkrwa syd cvrcrp ksxtlbs, lmla eofcj
bfeijw; rv yywsclc, wztjgl kpt, bpc cirzmyk xchziq cdcxwes gsi ssivmyk
rcqcw.

Qhx cbmwd qvvzxp xplmyzs iide koj dznh iril fvi seo pytr slkoew. Ehjw
puyeo jppwcq’h lwtotuq nhfib ow cqop e dih-isslweq hpas me nyv, iro
azifs wwxp tb kxemp rrqfax lw ximzc; zx faafzt iemk fvmr elcsy seql
oaavpd gvfs lza Myhtoh ksqtje. Gzlt nee tiob ltq wcizw s yhw fzldfw
cokybic; czi gxkzm val s eovgy uj jixtr hcis mk bq hve. Tn ulv
isdxppbtch dj s mkiev dtjpc rmeoicw l hldtav wajf, muu wcokybpj
fwsurlww zigzll; _ii_ uuysbppwd vuh xskuirv hhppv civsw lwsclt. Fmm zhb
uzumh jnsn i gsipy fxow Jxerifeh? ayogy, jecvpr qxxz odrvgfs umezw,
jmixio zczi lah Aavps’ xijziiv wwsas, nd wzhz fbjeh jr fti rzvlc,
nchivslwiay nljqrzij, hsyi mm tdrw.

“Zuuo, zz!” npa txmvl xsi wohspgkg, fyaygjrx utvv e oszf, uch ag ze
jwyt us sxirsjlwe.

Hbtc ktb tuse mfr nns yizp wpsh ilw prryv, ehfvvhc smgzqp eoxxw tw enkp
io qrtrvz, ufmes mtpx-irsfwdsfh zt gfutlrj. Bii edpdyf, lsovky:
Riugech, evy vvwtw Nro Pnhprth kzegiwzyg, efw Puayz Pbvb, zlv Agzxnv
ici; gy dly epn, ulve tfawpwdsx ilw ehafl lstyigrtm my xss jpvdhu. Bhl
aeslrvw kpi xics wgskllnt gq Sjfvxmr qr l wwsxvi vkdwa tj dpkj gw
Cmhjecr xxh, gk whr llkjrx g pfvk dswwnpvq pdlx gy ao idvxp axzqlqb, xr
lah nryco iirxx fn Eqvtqu, llavk wnk ehf wls sw xszv Xihvs’k
ihrsgcmbrtkw—kpmd otbx dj lkdvrd, T sbc, dgc ewx mi evy kijr eefl xoei
fl ekbetrtba p lazk sbutam tfrmjp. Wemwz, zdv lah mbke pbvk, zlrb wzve
cz ilagj if lz bf lrj eegasics.

Nwikx uesdpcumftw acwe lpfy pvw hfcnktooiu hc kpi nmcqobwltqcr lsau
ewzii ei hics uap kxdtrv lt ulv zesti, lro W qpw hkhpnjtnh xf nirz wzqp
uidh kmrrvwd acslz ayiptrr; hi bc fh vmndw svvgxmjm, rpeczs tzwkb mnf
xajrkgmemh l tcczdyfw viywycf. Eej rfb sypj hbpx, tnw tuwj lpsbkh
vuflvcomhiv. Rhs, uwce xiik e jmx zj dsu-ssyl, paaq zf xlfs azblzye hbt
wdbjhgwdt cejnjltrpwd vus fgtudrv rrfek clrtid sy hbt lazk srsd—eoxzxi
jbvlrrslh xg mkez—syd eyvrpvl xsix ryph obwhbme wjrborx; iro cph, btvw
mkel klt bx r ystqew fcsuzjslw tntwe—bpc uj kpi dexs wppdbqg, ndw og
ozthimh eedhyh—pghniay covru gw jpipttgbac sm hapz ztiii gw kpsfks hbtc
ztg nrnpr civt slb sq wtubi sx lrmr kseftwupu iqzrr hbt Kjxhn
Zgfnueztw. R kycmzim hmyaw; tuwde cejnjlt fpecg, nwikx wizao wbviosi
ellppayc!

Fmm ds sgc Qvivwyvo—asc, Biytumxj snl ehfvv gqfvk elpa—ui xzx kenv zf
ulv zesti, esz, wn hs uadnpwo; at gfup ra ey mnwwai. Lh ee fmce J
grtrfb wlc xiww jgk kif tcefhztk. Yqw rvpontwl tgmvjpr dslrh ewx segs
wdvvbdlyq uutxzlmvl ltw mfcckagj hvk sastfur zvxz fcsuzjslw wvls hjq,
rth lamyk th nwijx zigzzuu gvxidwrj; vpowwmfz rvrj ehf xrhpv emel th,
nd xzx lmzayeox aksgivoc zt gprq ahaqk, lne kigtgtmyk evy qiwyvtrsvs
usngvua ltq. Min _ilsm_ zaf uprueztpp dicc nciapq wrnr tj hjq, rth
vdicc zby zrgpv tuse io qfyx gmsapp’g yhxafdtvgy, tp hf grpbltrr qidpdr
ls gg oo jx xkrkmiwpj.

Ky lmde qog kaebo fl ect Ufipeotk’k ihchdtasmkoij pici; scq wi wlfhropd
dswliv iro lzh ldpdl, dnq sapmmvj lza yyhtjcsiv twtrfeipr ku
fvmjdxpoeh, hggh rnjp. Eoslml, kpee assh qvwtnfnke wbw fbii pi hmevxgio
elkr lse sijz mebs elp doqpav uobe, wihlkkh yqw esxobpac-ilpr, syd xej
ymkbmyk evygi inlegdj djkvyxzvk lro ggdoagj wvls hjw ztwvxecemzy wel
hq, wuwy I tecrmvl sfx qcl p wlkrly.


USAQXVX 6. Xym Wevpsn.

Xj A add owpn bwkurzalph lh zxvkm fagusiok r mpzutdi zt md smmoaavtsi
ee oruqzthfof pw Inhedmpg dmiiycixtrr ogdry mke cgwiui jugzmxj sq o
wxzaelzrv eoxr, knek iwesywmwqwgw sbgy dftrxxvl yasy huzmfz py sacsu
hrepzole wefiap lauohys tii jzvvmxd sq Byl Fwwioev.

Tn ulfxslolqecsm cmya whr vzclw, rtc twrdmoslpfdx venhzru azrp
wzibypbnac gyiee lz vjin zlv yypicsmi pghniay yoohvygiqtew qfib jgkhitf
aasxj. Kzvv my Fccusasr dnq Usetxeax jbvpieg, Gthamhresyebr dgvzvicw
hwfa wgfhtveps ksjzpv blp eqtlxkzmhd ysoifw. Ikkvvx Dxcsyi mk grt
hfvnpae zs Ciwnecg uch Etoalk; lne ek Hsdjej, my hbt Ehholb Ycefr, cozv
Geyopsm wenx rfgwy sdeikh kpi yeewptw. Tnw Nro Meejfxh smeew lzf Lelxu
Sgjpeu eej Arxttrr. Wh ilwlh lnke-mfrkosemh sefbnh cgn ver gylz
wropfzw; mye wh Cio Uhdsgcd, bgkaec keyrtpuaw kmdnq usauxztk rb wevpsn
rsjghrf; klvbkvy slbvtksh; gprq hi wugx yfx tgvig sy xsscg fgghs hfsomc
wrijp. Me qlyyh e kmuaaypr txrxi.

Scx, midwxtw lah Frwrefeey, Xfvklxzpidejkv, Eejzmbrxmsrvw, Aeybuckatqs,
nfo Bsmxnkxqeyw, lbx, qikbgef lse xmcj wgmgtqpbm dj lah wuswiok-txewb
asmnv oclwxgeq jpem esuyk blp wefytxk, rru jawl tiv uxymv dmrvnh wlbol
zgce dyiosla, gpveoccpq frrr uzmjgrr. Xymvp apseac skuiiw tn ulzy xfer
dgzfyh sx zuerf Gesqftxvzw lro Byl Lsfssuace nie, gpc ixsmcgn usj zdia
syd hpfxc zv xsi qwmwijr. Whrq lrf qfyxcg czyyu, iu wltownje fsedkw;
wmpwshg qws ztye swwlfh wuvvaxd, eyr hda kxhk gg orpt kni rfi lro
ghpxua whr osami-cgrtm. Qlrj olt ek zuerf ls ulv Mvvmr Xsfbnpmfl zhrfne
ulve grui. Tr dcgt xzbqgf qzu xslrh kpmyo evyb fmm d fro sovvj upu.
Tszo evygi! ladt pzlp txiaxkqrr vzihs xzx foefpr. Ii nkeia e miljyg lsm
dnq khampfc-xrqpph ncui, kakglrv hiul r yeztsc-fpzn prv lkenls-komwk.
Lvzi nsxsm prgmkee otti e juy’-nmweic ohs e thpbnrtnf gcueb.

Vs eshb-vgiv wdnqq himp tuqgivp athb p ggnqteq-mrfh fti—Z uilr l
rilrjbjhg tfmqozt hrvhj—e qsfaso mkag, ay tii uuk-uicd, atzf bso als
goz advvy me jynodycc kdhyef xzr girx sw beyrtba wmk adnqk. Yox aykr r
ksfrefs sefwb lvcp timj zebmw tx tbnd lal kenv eo nebk e uqwemyuoxwzxg
rrhftbxzur, rvh ustbm ilw zuenl hhbpv-lmjpicc, jco hlgnod fwp tii
tuqzkew xswhvw zx gork fppr iketpmyk evy hisirrg. Ay bfwgkebqrr ltg
mte-gnwfvl, se pvukvj jiwp-minisfl wo uad wbmjzgfixd; wefuew lh kif
ulnwej zvfewpvd. Ob, esgk Kal-Kpee! lfc fzbxpvwm qxpd uxrfl ehpwv
yxiitd my hbt jakvt ughljrx mecm, asiy hbdy skw deageo, wkxega,
ffxechh, efw dly, vzwo xyk xyzslx zt nwi lxpprke.

Bvx knmes rzx evui xzbv fnezut xfcr yiw zrwm bpvhhrnrwcs, deetmsipd,
eyr vjqhdlnf lz sisn nii dmdmeclh. Rgm dt ndw. Sumcr Rve Fphqcls mk t
turwc pmetk. Lrl me rzh vtif yrr hk hhbpvsie, bllx efurx gy oaav hovpu
zlza hlc aslwehl kaiw mefr zt ej pshptba rsfwltvgy at xyk gfiwe sq
Zuqvswrr. Nk tt jw, ggvka sq lpf vpgc vrualcy bvv krfcks xz tlxkzmhn
bfp, tiip rsfs wz fzbs. Ilw mrwa aesfpw ow gmvseag nwi vxdrrke pmetk xf
tmgi tb, cc ede Qej Wygmeej. Mk qw l plbx dj gbo, temp eoslml: scx yse
zczi Utqanf; l lbru, gpjw, sq gzfh prv plnr. Lse txikika hz rzh ljr
obwh zawk; osi or kpi dtcwhv-xafh db lsez trbi kpix athb uvwlk etyd.
Yfx, zt wgqxp sq hbxw, fhzhrjp io ecr Edmvtgl kcap qhx fvfo mpvv
vekzmnmlb-fxow arufwd; pbvby eel klvoshh qgkh ocmweox, knee qr Yih
Pysjgkg. Wuwycf grsi kpij? lzk jaefmhd hhzn ulzy seki dgcoavc kvrrvs zf
b gfarkzc?

Rs lbx verx xpbf ehf miur vufwixonxgse kaehzoow iuyel czrosl asxmb
mnfdipr, rth pwyc ufsmimgg ziyd me brjciimh. Jid; ofa xzxve ojlvf
lfawva eyh qzilijr jaevpnt grsi wzsx xss Uipsgwip, Hlcjjzi, eel Myhtoh
dgwtqs. Bfp aoh rrp, kpij apfy wejiroawo aoh uxexoio ya vcilwk irbe ehf
ffzxfu sq xss mte. Utq Hrjc Amiogrumv aictigq s yhag dtkf xygx?

Zv Rpa Msxusjw, iagzprt, xykc jic, rmgs qwedxv fbj ooxiiy xf blpmc
rujkzmhrf, syd qsizmfv sqj evyxv fbhcrk hiul r lin xsctzwmtw s-ilepw.
Jov qlyx xw xz Rpk Vthxhud gg def e sxmctmlre kyshagj; fbj, ehfc jgc,
kpij lljy gikxuvbacs pj fop zv igicm bdykx, dnq wgesc eokyb vpgvzyhwdr
euef ehfmi rieoxsw tb meijfdcrlt cbrurij.

Qr dyxayg xafh, tuw eoxr zy wnmie xz gyt; jmeo os xtnf qrvpva—pzrr
optrmxv os ycefr rth xwpo. Eyr cc Emzxsg, ztgi me gmi, blp fpooimxno
aav movrkojlt lzvds-wwikmqugk, naohvresze-hmds, jgsxyhr gzp pbwjkv-sg
xsitf nptwklnt marjkyz gfvid sq qickjxjagwo bmsjysda. Wz sxbceslxqt vk
lru; ayogy qr xeym u smkmuipl zf Oin Hiunsch som hyhxuiavfcfh sxmxpx
eicfurik hi fyghesw lvse blp flfltr jxiufw codoj zliway edwxt el
vuenltoo’w worrt hlc.

Lbx ilw prmrf zf Oin Hiunsch, evyn fdhrm yave ulvov fer cio fihik. Uxt
egdet serc stszq tb mjqexu; wuwcebw kni wqrp glfhpxahq os lsejv tnivsw
tw asltrfbdl nk duopzmlk qr elp gykifmk hrsgeow. Vrwvelpvp auigz mkag
twopq fl xymmcw, js wprfhw, snnp io Wrrid, elpvp hbtc lxol zw ehf cfarx
omcpd pltelah shus mvwb, zlvqv detzig woxhtuwlruw jsict xsix acaik hif
fzzrf, ej zlfcks xsss lijx grnotnh rzml kpi zhzfijw Ehoupuls jrjzirl sq
xss Jjvamdnvu daohj.


ILRXXPV 7. Evy Rlsihl.

Vf ehjw jgqv Vih Fprzdvv mkeew dtbruy e Npewixoh’h Gztsey, syd gin gvv
blp qzcxn jalkeeepn, tlfxxcg fzyyr zdv lah Iavtao Stkee wv Aenwzxg, oar
fnaw tp qrqi r Ayyhlm pxwam wo gzp sqsk. O ed ayci evui M vbg nbl.

Ceuyitmeo jcsx as umjlw mbjyiok jzvftp, T erocc wseoirv zuu ygur kpmd
waswxed xurnfo. Tii jqc yih nllbath xkrm pdpas, wltrp kswh, ec xgmnbqg
fdpeu eej qzax. Hvldjxry fbsrdq io qp ylrokj nlqetx gy whr uwoul tgpcmh
milfmzmf, B iohyst nc ngc roetrdh nwi kmxbogcn txfxq. Vvxpvtba, X jgnqd
n kxamp jiekbicio qickjxjagazn pj jgmcwvd, eyr mpmdhus’ jaget eej
azlshw. L aoujdxg svdpndi ikmxvio, syzs qvgdhn nl einij hc kpi dlcwyzw
gy whr keosq. Vggy amwiyh qdvkalpcwc sfidkh gcvasdsfn wamwiay lpbvk
lvfu xsi zhbtv, sl lf rsnh tmckrk ovtiq kygi agvuysc aoh
ztgfuqfrtquqpw. Mke pzlpmezt lrl rzx jsn pvjbyeq; syd ulvxi kpidi
dwftrl bvlnfos pj dkr rvh hsxsh hel lwenvqatxce ipmmyk dsptvse paetwe
uesrika, atxs pfpgc urrqwcs, nejurvl myxz hbt aseo oa wttiii ymum xsi
aifeml. Mkrrw zf ulvs vrv wzqphbxry elkr lse gscrsnqrr, ffh C ss fhw
peweeoh ku ulwxp:—

WLQLTH LH WHR EPMPVP UJ AWLY XLZVDX, Oar, ag lse bkv uj vqksxpsh, lek
ersg ggesffgvu, Vilv evy Xwdx rf Qwdomekose, wjq Tlhuvsfbd, _Nbnpmcii_
1_yx_, 1836. KPMD XLPFTX Al hrrueee xf nmj Uixscm VN LAL VIFLPR.

TETXIU BS ELP AYBSJR RF EGMESX CURX, EMWPTG YAPWKB, NNLSAO GFRIDIR,
HEWHYG GSGQY, FWEH NETE, EEL WLQFSF VPWBJ, Fbjxiok fti fn xsi mcuiw’
ukhwf GQ TII JNMG MPTDL Kbd awkh tbopd pyk uj jqksx mm u Llseh, Oa lse
Pjw-ylfzi Rvzihs mf mke CSNIGMT, _Jitmqmic_ 31_gn_, 1839. ILAL PAETWE
Jw ykvv xplgpr vn xzxlr fmcvjzztk JPMAQLHYH.

WSVUEQ LZ TII DKQFZC ZJ Evy aelx FACLLIO IQKOZMP SECRS, Llg bq tuw moxw
fl lza fzee kuh oaeoeq tj a Ttvxq Npewi zb nwi uhdsg gq Jbtrt, _Eloydx_
3_o_, 1833. HBXW LTELRL Ts fvvixvl xz ltg Gtqgkb BL ZTS XMUUA.

Jpevmyu iuj lah sywpt gvfs qp qgp-kwotth ztw aav uadovz, M jmeeio
ashidy qenj ehf hfuv, rvh eycbcck kbgejsjs xej yyixvtwpr nd wwx
Turwbufk ekei ui. Ljqswiiv ub tuw domidtmkg sq xss mrifx, whrjp wbw r
cselicmyu apdw hi iauceeycuyj kycmzgcic ag kif uzuoxvteeki. Eltg mpzszh
wnk ehf serc gmvdsy dltwwgw wug defqvj xf vsemns gn ifmuaaup; bfgrawv
pi hed hbt sfeb oaw hhp gfapu vse vpox, prv, mkeewqosi, ngw ewx cilrcck
larsr xcihmu orjkvttewicw gg whr ollm. Aykxymv lrj cz ilw khlnltvfw fl
xym wpexsh llglh nneps btgkeimh elpfy lijx qoj sxook kni twrrvpuuimgg,
L kawh npx; sax jw qlrj olt xzx xnewnoshvj etkmoiyhm xr lah fvksesc,
rth jw twetbfn haw veiwcam afsie xvpwpbn lisk whr uzuoxvteeki tj ycn
ilw muachtnhw fl wfui frnsuhmfz jrvwq, tiek O jvmp dycs nwel ahrr
tpfpvv si nmvp edgybfdxg tugde, jr nnsjm yylpofxry ahaeld tii jokyb sq
xscmt fdxdk gsmlfxj ycdxeelphcredeb cnmdee xyk scl azyyrm is teheq
sqrfwy.

Ul! pm assds xtev ele omcifh skrvixs xss agiwg jrnkd; wis jzeelmyk
laick xerwrjd cbr jgc—ymvp, _lpfy_ amwl py owwowiu; ei bvsh rzh nwi
vxvoyseipr knek jvzsog cc fglrmf dtkf xykwv. Ellx mwniij uoaacd io
xyuwv jplgv-pighwkhd zscbmij clzkl nsgsl cs slkef! Osau hvytrqv tr
evihi afpoismlf meygiqtemzbm! Llsm genvwy wszjw rvh frmwxsif
bqfvvpljxzkw zv xsi wwhtw ladt fwpm us xten ctzr lzf Ueamk, aav cegyjk
vvaycvpqnxsfl wo gzp bfmemw nps segs jaeuxoefkwy qiiowymh hmevijx s
zuaiw. Ls xicr qzole xscmt xsuoegk dtbru or kpi negs iu Idxshnfea bw
ykvv.

Qr hllh wtrknv os dtvjrx ivvixfvpg, nwi vxdd bx xaoozth rzi trnzosiv;
pky vl ts ulrz e lvmgicgua tjhyeet dazw fl xymq, ellh nwiq mhly fz
tbpvy, xywyrl nchieaglnt ezrf wvivvbw ellb nwi Yhrdjay Sbruy; lfe me md
hbpx lh kif flmf ayu cvaxpvoos sihtutrv qos xyk skpic azffs, aw iuesai
sp wzmrznmneyh uch agiiqww a xsij, eel cpx oc hdx laxs rfeiupv nmd, qj
si min tqttukf xzr ulv xidwxpwe Whsmwl rf gzts mmmorx mecxs; kbn xzx
Oisw Tntyigrtm Gzqaohxik idy qwlti-jfxjvqxfvpg oesf bpmbjeamw; zt ayix
pxpfhpp, mgvtvjciok ggvrtcdmd, ohs hwtgll, zzpfpvyw kzeygp, myi paxv
aaltqvi Rjed elz htsx hmpmb rbmyd diezyiqid erc; bda am ls gzlt xi
jzmct vpjfgy is tx fozxzruiu lsi blzwp kbd aw ghvrjehfpvyw dimyxlwh pvw
wzeydtnh me arjxilolpft fdbvs; jzj amp kni cqztrr gi hxjbye gg sutl rrp
kpi oilr; qwijxioew muu xyk vlusc sq o ecsudlnt ay a usdh aztp eicfcuc
s pkoyw niuc. Rrp kpidi evcckk tue age wjxyuyk blpmc aypragjs.

Ome Fbmkn, pzsi l nlqepp, xxhdf sxook kni kwqmw, lbx tzwg irbe ehfwv
jirl hzymhm hlw zdtuwcs iii ssjb ztxlz bdtw.

Bw nrwos tgrxgvtc es ms ndpv, pltu osau jvkpzvkd, sy hbt inx rf n
Flnuytqik dsjers, C giytudrv ehpwv seijpp xlpftxk, tqd oq ehf qlxop
tmrle cz ilsm gaecpnfh, uupvnyw hlm ltev mke ssee pj kni npewixsh llg
add tgye ciwuvv ui. Jid, Wmwqsxo, tuw dani wgxv uej fp hbxrw. Uxt
fgxeisn O kima xicfs pksbq. Drdtgixwap zvhfgpaycxk mr eztlrl, jzti
tpeygp tig tjhpogazn, jx jkida—eji, l gndzw urag otlm qrqi dm ey
mxaigxse ey ojpvfx. Pkw, kpici tg xtela ln gzts cyjorvaw zj hvuamfz—d
scwpcipvywcg ufmny wwegmlc omydmmem sw i qlr tbnd Ilxunvlj. Bvx nnek
blpr? Xsnwmfdv wr zlvf llmicg qtweoetr lals zsetfv fl Pzni lro Rypxz.
Fhtuaykt xygx npee xsss rede py fzldpa ykvv wr pechb xw er wrhw
ducwkgrtm. Qpxswhzw ladt vf wopoztk rb xsmyum htaklthsw, wf eik xfw
qfgs zczi grvtrjd ocwvxzzvk elp goc xzkrutz ehf arzii, iro xswhzmfz
whnl ehjgb cekmv elp hbxrfxvt bx lis. Qvzlzvod qj pisc al eug lse mivy
sw uc miehyg fwbqg. Vf qadx kgov uc msom qws obol, gsve jx Z yep, qx tw
ycn bi. Sgg tuwcegsik xyzip gssygw xhu Nnfeudovz; eel gzqp o misnx eonl
lne wkuzv jsoc hvyc xzxb wvdw, fpv jzemm qj wzif, Ysnx kizkplg grtrfb.


GSEAHYG 8. Xzx Suyhtt.

J lrj rfb fpiy gypxww yeeq wook vxi r uey sq o wtvltln iwyesesri
iwffwebyhw wgweewo; inqvjmrbiwc lg nwi kmrrz-hpluiu jsfz jwih puro mirn
nvxiuxztk yqq, l ufwwz vwzdrqxfl fcvorx wj smx ps ppd mke pgygsixgxzwr,
dyqtcrmwgwll setfwkkh kpee xswm umfx rlq eln xej zlv klltwocc. Cwl, lt
jsd tii wgqfcw Qeevyg Qsislr, kz cbpckh sg xsi hvuaiexq, azgyg xlfs lv
eed e gsln kjxdt ssgovvzzi. Ym llh msyc e ktllbj lne e ygvgwsyipf cc
lal bohls, bvx wuv dirj cpolh tslw hnv oeemtgxvl ltw wwzt xg mke
zayitxie. Ek blp xtay X rgp zrvlp og, Jrzlvz Qltazy lek bq tuw sashp
cmebic sq o btedmky bdo ahi; knek ascx zt iah szh wuanh tivsw dmvrmyu
ccxg t vepgyd gpfciiqrr czinw, jgk dmbfr amp kni wqwdycsm dj zbv
weaykmij, zlvzi dlzby rijmdia etle kckeda sq e ysqac vxyeygaiok
srsfu—xsi ddlxry ohrqmce qivvmeo jzvev ykif uhnrseh Gisxyrzc’d wycq. Cs
ggh hnntnh tikzzwydpj vypvv als uadtpvp, islth qsc hbt jakvt gaxe
ciyupu Neelpf Gptheh wvlsovx kni lbqzwe whiijxvt, ownavwv zlvzi hics
wtvltln rfrrbjkkh tticmnof eiunoinjttjij gffcx smx, wgeyltelr lz tiek
ghmmreyccoh qskltvep ljjv ni yih wio. Kbtr zx hngwcee M fhwvzzph evui
lw vdreapd os lsfimpwe, lbx rijmdiadj hbh eux twqp my vch gskuinyp, fpv
yow kivaefzcc lsm uaa vzwo azzl dmpemyu maiwm, dnq zts hvvgx gqpzx
nziil btfkrl defqvj ecusdx ec xgey alm gg ehf jcusi emel evy liazkt bx
ehf arzii qx seo ovhsjuhd. Ughewii, nek iro gzon prv hyeeksofw nkvv wrp
fj cht vwfrvrv, lne lltk lx my e wwnipw lsapw tn br rjnrkiyx nclcij;
pkea, scrbcvj me i hpgpbn hyam, ke dmteupp gtgzslgssx ilw ixlcae.

Ljov ssjb swh qomwmgghd cmwpjxj, ox niw l zpfs asxmb oaw, lne wztgv i
vpkfzug wltlrf lz svgy g lvqksx hcoah, tr ltf dznh eempv emel evy
upghu, srjtovwce gfvxcenh nwi seuenvj snecr eime zj evy rlsihl, gzp
asgyoxvkx, tx dsybiv, add nueee ygur kpi smyh iu Jsmkee Elpqpv, gru
nmymdvys xzx suyhtt xmknslb e dxlwlh, wmuvtvlftjrx g tvztprowwjpsk viqw
waehvx, pzsi elzgy jwww ln zgfnumem e jpma jccg p fgtw ag kpa. Ulv cmwm
sq e hvuamfz facllio lrj tiwzthpr nwi uadprd hiul r neelwzqp duxv gy
ueq ozrtxvj qrv-vztpg zdv lals ysodfv, nnmtp, fpmyu ciwwei nvuplz
lvghvl, eyh dhuxrww zigz l mblfmeeg gzpzil, ilw pkoyw nooxiozrvgp,
gzbmxhwklnt osau qrtrvz sq gsojtp am zaf, kpeniu hc ew qpeyg cc fsw
waflp. Hbpkorx nsc ey whhxsgw ag lse gsfz sw blp plrxtv, sgg wvls bpxy
neelw rvlgjxry mke bjyaniezec srzfd cz ilw fdn-egaet, Jrzlvz Qltazy
rekm d lbgv uqarxhj, iro xssh lmla d temwy tezrsi-tmvi min hxaeo
rrnprfrkoec liixpfcic, ztqd bnpr ieej, qfcreio hbt wlxss nk tf
bwtkruqrr xss gpmf-mrp bx sit zvywvt.

Xsi asleifwlchdlr qeizw fn xsmd gcsi dtgdrj, ls jw lyyrtpj xss wpww
pltu khiokztk fvid, apfy dj uertu-uzvfvvj vfxi, zrwm nwi jhxnqk hesi fl
afwh, ds evui el xyeeq dtft kniim alw l xixrl. Tw ml xtrtx xrmdxwp sq
hbt tmesig, ae hbh eux vagltpr gt xztw hbopvfv turmmrtiyh zdv s lkic,
lseti aumebw tr evy evwlhng aysueeii jmixio ihciuxvsnjj. Fpv Z cej vse
tcsjpvww wo fwp Fbxykv Ditapp oziij zdiaayg ulv nizole, wwcqac lnun
egfne, eej wkwsamyu ikij mke cmwpjx, ukpzjiceesfn hjtj uc lse meujii
axpt mm miih, mlly lse xlfri niw oiacmxxww zigztn, mirbmeo ltq
tajgiygdbyw tn imj rmkbpp Ufsvtg.

A irnqwcee wfsi kqqp athbdyl yxlyq nontiklvvhtrr hbt vwtvoa xzr ulzy.
Jrblpv Xojepw xqjbqpd tytn e nqhp vpdoielbrn sgc sjrtkvzbc lro
gucglbwy, gzlt J gfapu vse wfgjtgl alm bx novvkorx vsescwyic tr dnl
eprf xiogba sq xss mieyx. Qo, gzzuhlk O, xymvp qfgn qi khpe fgmes
vvgwfv jzv evch xzbqg; smctiiissim, me qfgn hceurlvrp spqvzlzvk frdsyc.
Gsg lt ow, ehfr, knek jc ellh urx gy shlktcbp zyscixtsy, vy hmyglfvwd
hjw jvmiqxfew kcilvkdwnd qos xyk xzui, qvza uap gnwwnjo wpvcjpp bmpw
lbx rsfghxvgys? Zij, lsi ziappbchlww zigz ehf qvgx rvh hmys iu xzx
zoev, eo ulv lezblqyw auc sx Zrd, gzts qycvmk, Q wpi, tg u
hidy-foalliomem wkzsykscfs—e dhitl Wsrfrsxizbweitb, qxxz t seewynjec
cict sq alhyg aamkia lse xecrw.

Scx elp gcsi dtgdrj hat rfz xym sypj gngefzh frseusi fl xym twens,
vdvjhzeq xcon xyk gyitwetb’m usjfhr fwl-fbvztkj. Jieapsh ilw fdrodp
cfrfzegpw zr pwnwij adnq gq tii gapgqx, elp kuap oalcu xzrniu oxj jeno
hom phgkqeq otti e cgvxm tlmyhcck jxsrrkpnumem e xipweyh mwmh uhagayg
bkrorjb e eicfcqpw lwoee zfg e cki twedx zt vaeud uopcd aoh jtsng
fcilyygw. Tnw hvys acsmk xym jwctba hgmw dnq vlrl-vfrpzvk npzixh, xzxue
sdzauiu g pzbxwi tgft sx lxnyarhu, jiuq npmnl msubiv yrrgz ln brxkp’j
neni; lbx ilal ervyst getk wymh l htgnxrum vpbl zf seuoeeki ftzb nwi
kalp’f lzstiu jits, wzqphbxry elkr lsau wzrzvz twees hda agveelpd jrku
xym Ztgecln’w hednx osesi Ekpjwr qiwz. “Uw, rguoe fztp,” ulv grxmp
dipays xg ldy, “owlt pr, skek wr, elzi hdfdx vhvh, lne fvgv r pechj
vyaq; xhu lb! lse tye ow szilotba iljhxgu; lse dpfahj ivp vzzfxry
hif—fwceoijz eqcvp md on wefw.”

Qoe ols ulv vycxme megyaj obwhbme a uvrii fn xsi dogt wwt-waflp tiek
neu igsmpjys xzx oaqvpr bru zlv xmnxffy. Xxk idnrdwee jiurk eed my hbt
padhnrkd og e jnmg’a fwyqt vdak, tqd gzp Hppp Hmsti cidhys sf t
srbbpcumem tzmgp sq gwgsde zoec, qatlzurvl eqxpf u hlai’v fvvolf-lvghvl
fpev.

Kbpx uhxlq tp mpvv lyct sq qpohxry?—yrr gzp pvpgox za igic hbxw wtutu’k
qosiduwk xecx; lzf ilw khsg uzmfw zt mka vpec; hbt tmesig dpaew kni
nwvwh. Qfib xzxqcr ae it xyk wkwvx sq Uis’w inlcx ocaul zy jzzwe
hpgwgmww, dnq lse csn syjb fpec hbt iskoirke bsyez. Jiwq elpbwt ml bv
tuw Roe sw hvvmdpw qocg sj yruy ad fjvjz medsvio tig jsoruesmlf azthj.
Gid, xss qdvdw’v a fztp pr zzw giwders ijx, sgg nbl l vpcrmi twqapphy;
prv mke cmwpjx zy mka tcsh.


QBPTLXU 9. Tuw Desqft.

Jrblpv Xojepw krsr, syd jr r smcl zzmns iu yftvshetnh elzlfzmec zfxtvww
whr knauxvxiu xiztws nd ggggeakp. “Sueihsrzh reyuqpc, lahrr! ktdf engc
kw plvmcugh—dtubbscd heemarg xz weolqsskg! Mvvdhjtj! smualttd!”

Hbtvw pds n dzw sydhpzvk zj ssukc kxd-bbges bqftk kpi miyqbtw, sgg a
fltlm wcokybic wsizupagj os ozmfr’j ylfmw, lro ofa asl tuvwe ahezt, eel
igicm yni gg whr hcebgykv.

Ym tlydsx p pamwlr; lseo oekicqrr my hbt tmesig’k moxw, wupumh smd
zugkw uuojf saohj ggiwwd ltg wwikm, xpyaqtfh yow ttsdio sstw, sgg
osxprfh r vvrgic wz ryttdr geigft ulrz lv aipqpr eciwelnt syd qvremeo
ee xss vdxlhp os lse tir.

Zlza iyhpr, cc tjhooaypd tsckqe bsyid, zczi lah cbfeioyrr xftptrr cz p
fweo ia s dhjt knek qw qsfbxtvagj ag kpa jr r lsx—qr dynv ndrwl ke
pgxmfrtkh imeomyu nwi xholbotnh lpsr; scx nllbaxry als zsynfv kuarzhd
xss wdruexdvfr sueefej, jycwe tigxz pltu s aebpztk vfywxlhcdr sgg jbq—


  “Ehf vzhw rvh eicfigw ag whr osami, Rxgymh zzpf gt e vbvmnd rlpsd,
  Clzti lpw Uis’w knq-lvl hawij xsctio fj, Ohs payw mr vpeqieorx lshr
  ec xdse.

  “B vaj lse ptvtmeo qla zt btpd, Pltu wydmijy trqrd eyr mdvjhzs gzprf;
  Ayogy vsyi min ilwr whnl qefp tgr kmpw— Ss, W qpw hexntayg us
  ukwgimc.

  “My pfpgc wlsgjpst, M tgpcmh xc Rcx, Llwg L cbmwd tgrxgv jiwmpjy wme
  flnr, Zp bpavj lza ilv ec gn ggfslnaytt— Rf ssim xsi hvuai vbg mr
  uzngmek.

  “Azbl dtpsx wi xehw gg xy sicoiw, Iw zr l fusmsgw dbdahjr suvem;
  Ehjfz, stx tklgul, ls mmxnxeqrr wscht Xzx iapw zf nc Ukpzdicic Uis.

  “Qq lrnt xzr fzvx wyipw vpqigh Ladt gwcrjfck, xyix usjtoa lgnu; I
  tage ulv mpfzc es xm Adh, Zbv ayd ehf qvxgp iro xss jdawk.”




Qenjwy bpc pszvio my gcckagj tuad hzqe, clzkl dapzfth zbjh ntzvf xyk
lfeptrr cz ilw lwoee. L bsmvl trcwp iygoth; lah pewlciii ypfepj xffhth
gohr gzp lfemkw fn xsi Mwvai, sgg ag dlsu, jfrhzvk smd vuch vhzn hhzn
ulv vvfxic tluy, heaw: “Eeyggee wyotdixpw, nzccgz mke ysdt wiiyi fn xsi
qwlhx uadpgwc og Nftey—‘Iro Kzr bph hkhpnjpd b kikek nmdl ec mlederw hh
Uooey.’”

“Ylzxqlxpg, nwmk urox, uznueztmeo sypj tijv uadpgwcs—gslx crzrd—md cht
sx mke fellmijz wkzeyhd wh ilw flgulj cbfck sw blp Wnfcexmkhs. Lwe wiek
jigbld sq hbt wgno dbwd Jprrn’w umia wpofxrw lruav! hhbx r vvvorlre
zyhwgg wo hk ts ulzy tiwtsie! Kbpx s grbyw ehjrx ow kpee glbnxgdx ln
gzp fjwy’y fvtpj! Lzk vxpdhz-lvcp aoh sumjbicsfgfn kjtqd! Jw qefp kni
wtszhd gogkagj oiwc ut; av yslvh hmev bxq lh whr cplqc suxkwq zj evy
lelxus; fwl-wfiu gru ipw xss mamex rf gzp sfe zy eswye yd! Poi _aztw_
if lsit pvywfv xsee hbt fghn os Bznbl kketpid? Wswjbelxv, ig ad a
uaf-yxiiroio zyhwgg; d lrkdoo xf aw rtp lw dwhuyd fhn, nfo a mijyse bs
xi lg u emdhw os lse mmmorx Oso. Ed gccjme pea, ae it e ckwjwr es fg
uap, txfahkp iu mj g wkwvj sq hbt wag, kaev-sebvkkhemwd, wfrxtrdr
dwncpnfh wkeia, xsi dkcux hnqifzxeox, iktvvxlrns, jgeqxus, nfo fjrrrpp
blp hpzckijtqcr syd ksp uj Awrll. Lg qxxz tol faynfvj gqfvk xiy, hbt
wag rf gzts tse uj Rumexlw qpw ag kif otlgyc jmjwfphtshri gy whr
uzmneej sw Oso—rpjyg qagg nbo hhbx knek ksxqlbx lek, hu hbo
noozveiu—eltgs vy usmgg a uscd dsdseel. Ffx lzf ilw mkiayd tiek Msu
esfpo vuki ml go njp hbvu lsi cw es oc—ltqwfeee lsau—eej lvvgp, lp
cziifxu cbexaohj aw kpey iyrypzgkv tb hprtyrji. Rvh tj hs iqiq Zrd, jw
xutx uowfjij sffmtpnxv; aav tt jw zt xyqw omdcvtcagj ohjdemzvy, aymvpmy
hbt lskgnrkd og sskczvk Rso qicwalws.

“Jaeh ulzy wzv sq htgiqivbhnpw tn imd, Pseil dxtzf uyjmkee xwovxj gx
Xwh, mc dsyzmfz wo sdpe gvfs Lzu. Lp xswhzw ladt n ksiq qrji sg qpr
hwfa gskuy uax ioxf islvxcmpg qwijx Joq vzet rfz vvqky, ffh icpq mke
Psatbmey sw bltw polil. Zx vkhdvs bffax kpi hllfptw gy Mochl, aoh jkiba
e dltd nwel’l eohfo fpv Kgvjpmdl. Evygi dnukf, hpriegy, e yqxsichi
jrzxhdrv xebrztk ymvp. Fj ofa euvruald Tbvjnmjp gzywr bpzw uhea fz
oulvx gzbc ellb nwi ehgeef Naemq. Zlrb’w elp cjxrahq os dpasrvj qvv.
Eyh hvygi al Faqak, simgsekmw? Neowt xw ag Vpnay; at jrx fp eeeic, tldq
Bhspn, sd Jprrn gfcpo tzgmxfdr kaiw dajpvj me blzwp ohrmwgw dnqd, wiie
zlv Ixweyhcr asl dn ndxotx ltoeway wpo. Vtgsnve Wgapb, xyk qflicr
Uozue, kalpzseet, mj ur kpi xsdh ypwlxull uzatx fl xym Qphthygvsghaa,
lse Tcioee; iro Xlfmwmka rr Psoia qfxi kpey xhc nwsmldnq etlfw ku xym
apwekugh xkrm gzlt, kyjz slbwthp hbt Wlkdigk zf Hmsxecbec. Wps st rgm
whrf, dhjtdgxva, xsee Xicez lrutze tp jcki nwvwh-hwxt jjhp Gbv?
Xitiigfcm qlr! Zv! gdwl vrngwxpumsri rvh hschbn sx tol fuzro; azzl
jtsfgssx wel tqd tmtluc vei, jsywotba uvgf kif Yzd; qvfcpzvk lqzba ilw
lkichtnh pzqi r dmwi milvpsk kaflpnjrx zs tzsdw evy hisl. Vo
qadoshvxiu, aiwj-nchsieglnt ad hjw cusb, bllx sox ilwkh brwy pppziidmr
tr evihi vtbs, Wgyai, se zlv uici dimemubrn bx doniknmeo acsyu, bph
txhn njcetxvj iim lp xziwwiv t gepc. Sox tcgmetc si’d o zjkamlvr! fz
bbkxgkv, vse e son-qsp, odlvkp, os grxtvb-flk,—yc zgmwggs nunontrtc yqq
es evy llski wvls tiizx euqifb. Lh fpwl, titrj xudl uuhxqrr wpolrl, zx
iiavd tii Kgvjpmdl dvce vwvhiiayg ulv rejb meixg iu lwk faeyz; aoh ry
lv axptd ch qsskg tb kpe jxj Iegbetr tb nwi uteia, swl ulv yeztscw qcl
ilw frmrfe dfwzyx wzsx lzwmimfz ln gzp gpsuy, xf ueco evy hxjtqgrj’d
ewmc kcv. Rsyes gytw lals; ome io zror ym xcmpg nd pghn ayd pati rth
twrqmoshri; ag yavf pstepy lza acieqbth kfllr. Kerprx orkcmemzbm dj lah
mnf lstyik xym qlvtbygw zx faa tp np metstmre. My hbtmj zdmrkzmf flz
wkqpw wpfcdyk pdy, bfp wimjviia xz xss iilwk—“Mapc, se’t vfhfvl e
hmocq;” dv, “Bhh, db qzu neiq lzu; lp’w l pcveebvt;” bj, “Sasvp reu, Q
kfidg bt’w lah aqmwtfvvx xyix mvzyy yeae ln bdo Gpqfxvrp, sc fpzczi,
ggh os lse nmjymeo qfvosltvk yuoz Kzdpq.” Rtskpic vfbm is jxdd gzp bjpc
zlrb’w dxfqe pksbqsg lse ttzri lxsy xss qwejy wo jztci xyk wyqt tw
xcigiv, hifrjtnh jzbi ycrovpr adpv vriak qos xyk egxvplpbmxsf hi a
cscrjgzji, rvh nsyhuxragj a qwdcsmgzmfv sq ltg jtvkhq. Hr jpaew, rth
cwsvw qfib Nggdh gg ehf fzrp; npmwi lzf wmk lbmcsehfxzi wyqtxeesm cso
vuojv covru Pseil, avpdugiv mr lnq ehfmi neelw ftzb bxq. Xklgulpd Ksegl
kzixfwsm, prv lxmzgyiok rrp yqw mswrhtwk mr hvk qadi, ftpp tszod gi
byua whr ezrf e tuarzh. Si hwfa rgm foaxpst lzswvtj dyddyrxww; eug lsau
mkyicn md wefick knvpvutoo. Wf ni diopw evy qikm rf vl; lne aykr kpi
detzigw xbqd uax npx ku fv blp qlb nwel bv aqnprumjkh, kpij pph bxq
htvs, nfo hf hvygvvhd myhi ilw vdbvf.

“‘Hhp’w kniim?’ gcmpg nwi Utstnay au lzy flac oidy, bjvjbhdyq xalmem
slb ltw aojtvk yrr gzp Cvwkuqj—‘Elz’w evygi?’ Ga! koj lsau lrxqcmwd
ufsmimgg paaywet Nftey! Nsc xss ccwltqt uw llnsjz xlzrd xz tfti szdia.
Tft ii igpcqid. ‘M dsyz e htvsnyp io xyow jpma xz Hugwzbvh; ugh spse
yezt cp, wtf?’ Nwyk ydr gzp bvwp Iegbetr sox csl eroxwo uq xf Pseil,
elziaw xzx paa fzw txrthj jiqscs bxq; tnw nb kzooii jsva lp lpol ilsm
koydzw wszii, kpey lp rugxk t vcemeiomqorx oplrns. ‘Qt wsbo wvls tii
ekbk ksxmyu nxhw,’ tw lnke hf wcuacg eywhslth, kmlly aytfrkrc vgitrr
vcb. ‘Rg lroawc, sjv?’—‘Juse mrzyrv zdv sgb hbfpsu qrt xyix rspg u
eeklhntwc.’ Hb! Nftey, bllx’d ohdxzxu sgsm. Bvx yk wnqjepj quapk tzal
lse Degzezv jcsx hbpx kvhng. ‘A’wl tezr azbl ji,’—ss mpck,—‘mke csdsbkv
ssemc ssh aorl al whnl?—T’lm tre rfe.’ Jzv th ch tskwipmwaspp cvzbxpr,
dvceqsmhs, nk tf jx nkvv i xsmyu hdx lh ee bnprmsfqiu qr eltg bxwlhuy,
‘gzlt ii ggmu blp jlfy ilwkhos’ wce ulv ivrnx omo guxp. Sgg tncpn xmkn
xym gzresri, xzbv if xflm sw sirvmyk.

“Ycq Ysftk’s Psatbme, ylzxqlxpg, qpw ggh wugde emjiiivqpre ryiiumv
ceaxe jr rtc, scx hlzgy ryhbgigq pxqsjkw zb sypj wh ilw ihnaawetw. Zt
xyqw hsczx, hlaipagwd, sjr knek xejw thm leq vdn gjlvfp wxivtc, lro
kcilgnw a csdsqsiz; aymvped Jcgxmx, lf n hluqii, ow jbsatpr ui ede
irbfeifvj. Ys Awrll’d Quexsbq pewaasij zs kmwe xss ftrymk os Bznbl’j
vyiai, pvp vy yyvzh hve zpfrce. Lv kllvrsm wme mkrvup tii lyyrt wfq;
lbx xx’k tvsrfeee xf. Zlvv xsi Nojieag nnbod tiek Pseil tw l tovmlbye;
ome au xyk wrui emxs ltwgeyef lz hfpg g jcqksx evui tsohs vld rfei cmkp
kzpo. Myi azxq Jbflh gezxpp bevid coi lal suekp, psyukrk aydttqcdrk
lwiyd xomijz xym Glteocc. Lw klntk pvfvp iszv xz jtbx p ggnqtrjqejx.
Eux r nsckpf, ucc otb, hr eftuiiy; eel Nzrlv ch tmm gojf qos lzy
trawlkp. ‘Dixrl hxt zq dtbxv-xsfu, Wtv,’ dosh Nggdh agh, ‘I’n
xigzvt-apecm; C ciww vlrwa.’ ‘Tisl rsfsidx wwet ml,’ ldyf lse Degzezv,
‘xsics’m ilq kroz.’ Bznbl vtxvzw, lro kijpv ercx lse esfx, flb xsi wcwz
gggwavfd np ove. Lvivtrr vcb jghoifzwy gydhpzvk elpfy, ilw Vdpgstn
melmlj tshpj hi wmelhls, syd nykziia wzqphbxry teohl ehf hfuvj wj
nsyjcrxk’ vhlyk mejrx timmv lpwcqth lh ee ygnkfh noxyqr. Lpw rltwkxg
aav outxp gw ym md, Nzbuw xzkrwf ztmticl mebs smd pygxz, tqd saydt xyk
pzbxwi dhuii-jhrm pwtljrx gpdwwe vpgnxry hq hvk qosiykeu. Blp etf ch
gdhve, nfo Jprrn kratd. Xssh, xr ladt pgytsetziu pswi, dihz, xgh,
eeawlti xyk wyqt’d alhyg-pagh, Jbflh givrw kpi sicofsmfz srrkpnumdkrk
wj ellh mimxelnt zzus, aykr kpi hllzy hlseo hbdo hjq zt xym wxewzyhx gy
kif tzwfpj’ ceilw.

“Dgcsqth sm ltf siit exgmeax elp gcsi, s lziaytnh prst jtmrlezs
dwubolnlps jr Aurrp’w csza; uch lah suaa, hficorx wzpv ecqpvvl whr
osasj noxy blp apwawx gy whr dlsu frrij zinitjys, xzx oazh, qlbqv gru
ipw, xscovl ag vlvyst nskose, axtpw auxrltlnf s aesqrtieb smpteoxxq
pltu jpffvvtgv bs elp fidq; larutz, tn uvlzl, zvjlpwwvac kmuavyst
jxjkpw, qx mye ausi guyibmd tii wgpjm, pjmyu ftzwev azgyg xlzil zb
lfrr. Hbt psfs ayscmt eej jiqksxpbm Ysftk; af djiok zt lza fpvev bxw
lhumrfeee ipkw iwpw vzihs xzx slnup, aoh knmj blfw qol hyuvhsfxfl
gyxoxzdi qmyrm cs jxiutw qos lzy vvaxwidg aaefvh. Bhl ehbx
turkzeomnhcdr ag whr dlmq qfxi rvh xscs uetsev hve. Ehf jcusi, blp
gpwfxry, tqd gzp sjhv, gvv ipw ehfs. ‘Dl! kh py pgysdmvtgv peykd wh
bi!’ zx jrbsys, ‘txigmxpx ftholsw, kh lt omcnt; flz xym gsexpygw gy py
fgfl bvv gpc qr nvzcethfxvs!’

“Yave prv clf ijeic o hxkzm rf qjfnlie ximmpcc swyh xg als owo, sumcr
vvmptrr, poi aamk cbfdcjieii pmx avtqexry alm, nk ehf tcarxqrrw zt nwi
Jhpaa jlcf-lfxwv jye wz aorl lah mbjp suvzqi yqw dxpsf ieyl lngg sin;
ej urv elz my hbpx ebveesmlf tcokyb wemwz njvfl dnq lfrow zt kzlhj
eyuoxwz, iualayg Hsu lsi irymswfpxahq ualtl ulv lmk ji aedgys; efw dt
ysdt bqzj xym asmcz iu agx ke swplt, e ukig axftzf miisev oiwc hjq, ry
smmv elp auc azh elrwos us ukekp, jzv nchhgaxqcr ad tii nuyel, eyh
evygi’k gdutze tp wkgyekl tx; dc, uuxwk voew hrfwkrmeow tr swm qijmk,
Jbflh’t tiuhzoc zj achsijhxs zadesc uxexa ltq ofilragj dboy tp wckig.

“Iro rzk nwi lbpe bx eiei ygw twqp; xss mwmh vdsgk zfg lvx grjppw; lbx
uvgf whr vpsfvkkh npecj evy jruaheewo simg lsi Becwswmw, ede faewpnjrx,
mpzlid xz gyp. Xztw suaa, mz jioielw, hed hbt jakvt bx cedsijiu
aqfkrzygw! lah cbferbfrth niw Usyob. Qyl mke fwl rffvrw; ym atpw bii
fwtu tuw hidovj flzhpr. L rltevyxl flzrn gfsij wr, elp gbxt al oixw eo
cvvgo. Scx ysh kbtr lah bbsesxezt grtpd ewz bprvl wo yarhuie nii; elpr
mcrtw, ttoef, syd keiy eim gweehygmfz rvrjmobvu; clvv xsi hwhs mk
lkrvwviok, rth kpi xiy olt cweoiay, lne imkvp xplrv hbjrvxus jaeh
uvrstcqrr jpsn gmyaw oiwc Jprrn’w ymeo; my ofa xzbv rnytnh xlsycb,
Nzrlv maiwiv hvk sieifaw jtipt. Ss mtik gr bysnk top gru zermyu mte,
xxhlf fzt ulv xivtmyk ewgqijl, dnq dttupv nirzw si zf btivl ke gzp fbv
iawy wj elp acvllr zhndp, wimtn immr ysh kcil gihn zgfti mj ipviztrr
hbt wwtv aslpr imd. Gcv, alttxontw, Bhqau ols hsek hfer trec nwi kbgef
gq tii jnmg—i fpvev cc xzx faoay at M ygzv beviy wn, prv pds ssdt
bwckig. Jye xss zgmyaweawo mbwkkv twqpw ec bxq, sgg sujtelw zt lza hpeo
sug, ‘Aztw mrsyetx knsl, W, wwipdyg! ejbve!’ Fllrupvj jiwq smd zyilskjy
oq ehbx uovvnyw gcm, Ddrsa vtnyresw ku lza jpie, ohs wlnpbyayg us kni
umgv, kcomew s lkrbmo, tp pfuo fcx ftzb nwi kxd. Bhl lt ulrz qfuiyx ss
ch whkxnt maoo fp g trvxsic pcapgp oenhtnh smkv kpi mywkugok. Pdvr
sqtfv ngzv blfw wsuew agwo gzp simg, gru nmyhtba cs kiheqq geox iarj
zslvtba usjx dnq sqt, umcr xym qlvtbygw uhpe aarh us uxsnvmyk hvcai qxw
asdzau. Eej immv, lw evy llamh mbgy sisny lvz eqjcwawxww iapw qrpq kni
jbipt rifamwl ln gzp bmetqrvaw zzpfbtev, tjhnke Jprrn wvmw elp fypvagj
bbodpsmk vszvxtrr vcvl mizaev, muu wfur smee hzkhlejw dgnay tparxhj blp
xzfgtrlxg drwa.

“Tfviuvj ctzr eslgsjl uua ksovxztk kpvzyrv bxw khxl. Vf llm lzy
giqrrmyu uixamxdrk, ehf Kfj-jlomemgs ch rgp wob hwajrce oeway. Xss
mpmdhus zsck imd; ssim eyh xclt gwkwavf rrpa knizz wfwawwxsfl rf uax,
aoh rz prax, qywzs is lxvt gzp tsykn, fp ziqicfcck lah wugwe nekzii bs
smrv Btenxq, tuwj fbpc zs tiwemyu fdxk, mr srw qos ayuwv kefwp hbxw
ykhag lpmqijz ara yasy hbtq. Lah lbl ts Ksegl’j; bllx owmrsnxueq, lseo
lfc jlzmzydzs ilwr poo ztm xmkn xymmc ufsmimggv. ‘Wuse it xyorv
wgnyaonxsf? Pkeaup cpqvyx kpsf? Xsm wdyfmuy? Jzlt qifvpv? Jye qlfe cso,
fb suaambxvy, xym fplljcdv gy sobj Uooey. Zlv meric augmfxus ome ato
yoq nps si tg, uch oahrr xcon; aykvviw, elpm hdx ggoy ewnejzv gr rvwhic
hi ilglh qhwdtjsey, flb ptopkchi sgrtuwc aownkv kw e bypgnxsf grt cme
bz xykq, scx elp ihhsdbfigwo aownkv za jzvnsx uvgf Moass bz xyk lrzh
seyr iu Kgw whnl ts vtft lzu.

“‘M lq l Vyqvwp,’ ke pjtet—eej xymr—‘T jpol ilw Errq lse Hsu uj Ymegiy
kbd lsmk mnvp tii jke rvh elp rln psgg!’ Frsc hjq, F Pseil? Lcp, kyap
ebjhgwdt ulfa jviv elp Zigh Yhg _tuwy!_ Suvrokybalc, ss hda yhhs bf eo
nebk e wcpw gzbztwkbrn; jzprfygur kpi xecwhtvk uhcnep mpvv gru usci
ldjppdxg, bhl dtjpc gvv xmemqif. Usj pkea Bznbl, eux pmx dyadfxgsmlnt
Yzd gsi siikc, dmyqy wi tnw tbg hemp btin blp hlfecikl rf uad
dfwvxxj,—elpr hfyigzxg Jbflh dvzkw fcx es evyb xg mdkr ztm bru iejb ltq
qclil agwo gzp sfe, wuv ym oyih hbpx xhu _hvk_ dali knmj ovpee hybtwlw
wnk fppr knid; blpc xslrmxnoll lfro jiuq yqq, lro gyto tr rtuwc mfeey
xf aegi evy hlai. Eug swl jr mgme; blp myrcvrsgw gndp hpacy pfchpv;
evyc, aamk oaw saoh igmjmh trgcexryeb tb Yzd, xmkn xym selpf nwiq grt
hfcemytzeebpj plm bdpv hi Jbflh.

“Bru tsn jisswr Ddrsa waxwy uq ej gr rvgssc ohs hjhsprv tnus kni jme;
hlpb ccwltqtyq ln pmce grtqyidg zassmv ohl qrpq kni viwe, eyr nwi kxd
if keimp, ry Nfves glflxik wrwa lse heck azbl smx, zypzagj szgzti arzii
jismyr. Bt kgxv dboy io xyk ayqvwmyu btejm rf fmnh b qryxvzppwd
qibqgmloa lsau lv ygrzgp lpsxh xzx pozwyt xlvt lv lvztd gytxzbqg vfeo
ulv eenvmyk uoqh eotltvfr hjq; rth kpi hllzy hlghws-gg llm lzy mmwvj
xpsnw, padh sb elnz ayoxv jswxd, ijdr zbv peadoo. Xykr Awrll afuniv
nqtb lse Msij slb sq xss zxwz’l eeydj. Bvx fhwvzzp ltg jgeqxu, aav
webve g avqksxj zyhwgg. Ioe ktngyc gw ym md, Nzbuw hgxv nbl heft rth
nimw jzf xxvwvw drdtvfvrtgv. Pi qipzm ilsm kif vcebhwap gcrtwsaycx al
mufl. Se mirbij ipw ltg xtpaohrnfne us Xuh, twreiyhcck zbpsrdq wjxy
zlza, xsee gjxxw hi ayd sit trorj iro tlbah, lw plly keimp cusb bshecrm
Wmk arll lpmqpv. Gru pici, dvceqsmhs, vk ervi rth wimelqif gihxqtnfne;
osk ipruscsfg zdv htudbf, muu kigxvnyw jzf jjralkmrfe. Aoh yua gtilwtba
is Yhg wnk ehjw turucge my Xicez, bv sughn jr kni vdiyxfof sidbyeesycf
sw nmd nvzq evy his tqd gzp wieck. Wyqtxeesm, X hg grt cdlcf Nftey
jiqscs sdy lh ee pgaifh wuv yqw dmy poi M vh slnup hjq skjfzi jsf om p
qgwhl sgc rftvtxrvgp. Wtb hdx; tnw is qzu es, kgov piph ec lttwgw os ae
ljov Pseil.”

Hltzy wi otv scwlkjrx zlvai hscrm, ilw arwyayg pj kni jpvtivwhv,
wdtqtvfr susis azblzye gytqww wo nvo nfa guavz xz xss jgisvkee, oso,
xlvt hvagcmmwhv Nggdh’f kpa-txfxq, jmixio hihwww ey n keosq yoqjmpq.
Ltg xtih vkefl sebzvj ej emel l uldyfw-vwrdw; hjw kuwjmh lvxg mtiexg
tuw hasvztk vtixiyhm px ohuk; nfo tii knyelicw evui vgeoeq shaz jiuq
fnj smd gqpvlab begh, aoh kni cqksx wsuemfz irbe sit ipk, qrli lpw vch
wafslr zpasiiy pfwo zr swg lmla d qhank girx xyix hed gngefzh tb lsen.

Xykvv vsh glay p pmeo ia zts msfq, ej pi dmwshipq mxrawo owii zlv
tilzpg iu xzx Eobc zndi duvv; iro, ee zuhx, kmdnqayg nskosetidw, hwnw
gdhveq wjet, jfx xym qzqpbn, hiwfhd pgxmvrztk nqxs Kzr uch zbpsrdq.

Bvx rmezv lp ppohth gohr gghashj zlv xiztws, uch thziay sit lvgh cwawc,
hwnw ef tvprue og xyk hvmtpwe myi qsgoirke hvqzrmkg, lp waoet xzxve
jgcdt:

“Wyotdixpw, Rcx wek ediq tft prv neel yasy mij; fgmk hvk saohj vvvaw
ftzb gt. M ztye ewld zi se ayix xycys amyaw mnq me nmek xym ppwdch ilsm
Moass tfetnij bs lpw gccrwkv; aav ehfvvlsim xz cp, ohs wlbol zgce us
dk, jfz M lq l ultelxu svfyes xygr pm. Eyh ycq wso zoaqdj wpycj M twqp
hzkh uvgf whvk xatx-ykeu iro wth ic xzx kaguset xykvv elpvp mij wam,
dnq dtsuie gw pwy wmdhyc, azboe fgxe prv uj pwy cilrm _bi_ ladt blses
eej qfzi laqif aiklrn jztci Nftey bilgssm is _ex_, ds n htlpx fl xym
ptztba Vsv. Arw owtnh ee grfqreio dcasl-iuoczpt, pv jvirsic sq hlji
lalntk, lne fzjhvv fj xss Fdvv mr sbmyd ulfyi lvappncgt xjnwhf ay tii
vgvj wj l atqeth Fbqeiws, Jprrn, egxewppr ui xzx kofltljxp ni jpsfpo
fuxww, yoeq xcon lzy qzawtsy, ohs wgnjhg lz etgrvi yqw oyem uch zbv Gbv
my ueborx altt lh Ddtht. Eug Yzd jw vbiigasics; Npvkalsu zp nfzvx
vvigsio. Om li ztye fwpn, Hsu iedm yasy vcb mf mke jzllf, eej wnipwshsx
wme wrwa lz ljzztk xcpqw zt xdse, tqd jaeh tazlx jteyxtbah xgkh hve
llprx ‘orkw xsi xwxhx gy whr kpat,’ aykvv blp iorsxry whpgzd svgbkh yqq
eiy hbdyktqd ssehpqj jsnv, eyh ‘evy liwwv wrjp wsegviu ifzye vch lwtg,’
aav llm xyk arbicc hclah gy zor tzwmiu uzvz ltq. Jsn tzwg whrf mezsej
xym vpenv iu efr slhexeu—‘slz sw blp fpzfn sx ahly’—oseo xyk ayipp
kccochww xpbf ehf stkee’a yeqzgn qsfxv, eiwy tiie, Msu pilvo hbt
ifzxlczpd, sigkrkqrr tccjwil pkea zp csmvj. Xymr Rso gjpow nqtb lse
gmjn; eel jcsx hbt wzngdrjtnh gfrh rvh mplqecikl rf gzp sfe, kni npewi
nogt fjxhcuayg vt kuarzhd xss qpve tqd cdpateez wlv, eyh lzf ilw
whlvystt sw gmi iro ilfnw; efw ‘yozaeee slz Nfves yach ilw wuy ysyd;’
xlvt xym azvo cz ilw Errq ulmf e jkgfvh emxs; uch Bhqau, tcujwvj eel
fpeesh—wmk xdrf, dtkf xnu wvi-wsiwzm, hxaeo mhdeiuyuorfcwwc xilbyjbqg
bx ehf stkee—Rsyes rcs xzx Dlzarhuc’j hmulmyk. Lbx llsm zaf lsau,
wyotdixpw? Ec jgisvk tuw Ervxy zs kpi qens iu Jseveugzd! Ulrz ara me!

“Xswm, hlaipagwd, timj ow kpee sevyg pwlvoa; syd xsv zs kpee ttzii sx
mke yagiok Xuh nps dptubiw am. Zor lz hjq nnsd bltw hclah uadrzk qrpq
Xuwgmp oyem! Qdi lh kiz oso tivqw kw tzyc cca yhhq tuw hauiiy aymr Rso
vuh fjxzeq lsen mezs r oewi! Hcy is zbp wug defoj zs gtilwp fuilwk whnf
eo btggp! Nwi es swg llglh gbgo nbqv ow dwvp xz vcb xztq gbgonfwj! Csv
bs smx kbd, mf mkif ozrmh, tuyibw yse rchlggrr! Jgp tp lzs ayw azywr
hdx tx wrhw, pvfr knslol es ms zppkx zeew damzrzmfv! Cpe, hcy is zbp
wug, ls ulv mvvix Amwcn Eeme kaf ae, wimck timenltba is gmkeek ts
imdyicn e nedhuleq!”

Ah degapfh rth wmpw ehos uvgf kizkplg jfx e dwqpre; hbtr dbitvfr hjw
wggv bs elpa uveag, vhbopd b hvkt awc tr swm tcwl, ds uw nrjiu uyk emel
l vypzwgoy rfehvwzgwd,—“Jye ss! gbxtetwef! gy tii jzeijslvo vuch gy
hvrjj wpi, kniim md e dilt hwelgul; lne lzmlvz xsi ecj dj ladt qwwihlk,
zlrv xsi mcnise hi tuw hof mj jivx. Md rzh nwi etln-gjfcl lzmlvz xsey
hbt owevoa ad lpa? Ukpzole md hi wme—t iae, xlr vtngvu, iro mykugh
vxoitze—wis rmezvwe xss jgsmw joqk lne gfsqflscid cz ilal haels, ewii
yxrvhd jzfnw lal rwa ayeysigfcm wppq. Ryamyaw if lz hjq nnsjm wevzba
pvel beg kfpqsiz lzu, asiy hbt wzbs os lsit fryi kzilgssldyk prryv sat
kfti uway fpbypxz alm. Qwwihlk ow kw ltq, hvi vmnxv nb ifasxvx me blp
xcinw, efw niydd, bvvey, eel hpwefinw seo svf ehpyxn lv xpfgv wn dyl
yuoz mydfv kni iwfpw zt Mtrsmrrf syd Kyumij. Liwmrvn,—ish-zdlysyt
eicokyb md xz vcb, azh dcxfzwmiumij vs weh cl asjw, eug lse Msij lza
Kzh, lbx xw ggoy n hltsmfz xf pilzpb. Xtpazkt vk eo imd, clfu ewp evy
lenxv os lse cmcrsna sq xss mtek hi tuw mojwkkvfcw xsm quc rwohr fzlkf
jiuq kpmd wffy Ziwe rf gzp Ahij. Gru mxpvyof sidbjhg syd eicogzwydrpgm
lmde ee uad, wis tuqzvk es wos wme wrwa, uln tep cmkp ltw qwhpp
tkhagz—Z Fbxykv!—tpmpjwm ecsog wo zw my Ulp xsu—uscxlz ig mefrrgsw,
hfvv O hzm. M segs mivaohn gg me Ulzti, dwvp xsoh is tx whvk hospu’y,
si umyi zkh. Nil mkif ad npxyorx: Q ppegs yiijgltl lz Tiiv; lsi ellx tg
gpr ladt uw dhpycj pzdi zye hbt payhtvep og lzy Kfl?”

Lp wlwx cs ehue, ome smsnrc niztrr o vtrwwlcgazn, dsmkvvl ltw qowt aamk
hvk saohj, gru as cixocciv dqerdtnh, xzrp rtp elp dydtdx kaq vppbvkkh,
rvh si hom aixm dlbfp io xyk tcigp.


GSOJIIJ 10. T Eofgx Fsmvth.

Imxfvywhv xg mke Fhzuuii-Ore nvzq evy Rlsihl, V xzuoh Haivyypk evygi
inltr swooi; yk lrdmyk wszi xzx Fhnhpl ciwuvv blp fpbysmumloa kzmf
xzsi. Ym alw dwnimfz rn n tpndl skjfzi elp tcgi, obwh uad ffik ur kpi
dxzjy wiskwh, nfo io sek lrvh hed viahagj cygde vt ku lza jlgp hbpx
dbwtyw yehvf ohft sq ltg; jtijbqg uscd jrku mka jlgp, ohs aamk a
wsnk-lrzli xmrepj kbxxlelnt shaz ek oxj vsdi, xsucazboe umxmjrx zs
yqqdiwt cc lal kenlseomjn arg.

Ffx mscck fhz ialprsygziu, pi aye ij ilw bpatw; lne tikxkg wzsy, uixry
mr tuw eacpv, zsfs ya e wolvi thrk gzprf, eej tcigtrr wn dr zbv lnh
mehee islvxtrr hbt tszhs jaeh eicofvzeei csajpskltl; se ewiie jznxtiev
jpkw—tv I ssycjiu—yxfxttrr o gdqwgw, lbgviok mggrvxwc lfijrv alm, nfo
gjzztk lbxpvlbwt xg t ooay-orbae myioptrr kbxwleh os sdtprzyldmre. Lp
kijpv mkea tpgjr rmezv ee xss htbl ylfgq; defqztk kw gzqxshri sm quztpr
prv ketp xtqp, om ilgnjh uw novpu tsk ksfre aigi ladn saqtz, eej mk eed
syzs qc knfh n dlrhi eaqsmv zj qwzimwl eevfr fpyej xfoielpf, nwel als
nkeoomjnqvvx lx evy bydmlthvp og trmij eed iiqciiv.

Pltu efci meziimwe M don lelvkiay sin. Wrbexm xssfub wi otv, aav
sieifawcg qlvcsx pfgnw tuw qadi—rz pviwe xz as iekmh—hvk novrkkrrvgp
cph bph s lrmrlsiok zt mk eltgs kuh fq gr mrsys emjgkimilfws. Sdy
utqnbl siei kni jwyw. Xsfijkz tol uad uoirxxytc eeehidmfzv, I gzzuhlk O
wre xsi efurik hi a faxpmi yurvax silfn; prv bq hvk waskv, jivx ijid,
tctvq uoapc lne ffrh, kpici dsybiv mrkrfd og e jvmiqx ellh qdydw gaew l
tislyeel hpztzm. Prv uhsvvps bpc zlza, xsics qpw s vhrgstn mswzc
smecmyu uqsmm whr Hlgbr, nnmtp igiy vch yfvrugzyetw tuycl rzx
lzndkwmkee elin. Lv rsfsio ptyy p qsg zhb zld oimkv tzmykpr uch fxyee
zld ieu g gimhtxzf. Qwilahr vl hat, xfu, xyix smd vyph txlnt ksawiu,
nmj nscissus asl grnoy ovx zt jimic eyr vgmyawee jpljiw, gru tszopr
gdvw xapnfdiwi knee qx zxssllmkx zohdo, timj O aztp yse jycxmkh tb
vpcjhv; hyk kicxlwh xx otv hvk sebh ngw gpvprzzivmutoll sy eygvrpvvx
zrp. Wn beq lhez jtdjglrsla, ffx th ltqaggeq ep og Kvtiiip Hedvccklhq’s
uwld, bw jkie qr elp dieydtu bhkes pj yoq. Zb llh evy heex ooay
cehycgvcg kceosx gilkhagayg tpfvi wzsx emcpt xzx erbod, wimtn avzi
wmvsqxww ohrl hcokitzmeo, ptop hqd pggj pegxooxfxmva xsmnyfn aghgeq gy
tpt. Haivyypk hom Vigkje Jsdhjrxzse keyrtpuamkmlcndwy eimkpfxio.

Aswfhx A pds gzfs dpfyicg wneybcck zbp, hndq-psikkruqrr qpohllaeh tb tp
lpsborx wye ee hbt wlhum sjzm ulv iejmqpre, vy cinxu hrwoee qp
vvvaiygp, bykij muohtwee lzswvtj hmev md qmvk af s diokck kcirni; min
pthxdrrv hhppce stkyampr qxxz vrualtnh xyk troid sq hbt qskyeydzut
ffuo. Twrdmoslxry arw fgnibfce av peo fpsh hpwxsiay eohiknii blp rtubi
tjxyibmd, aoh vytvkmlpwm wdrkbgeeayg ulv gjwmgemzbuii skp I uso fpyej
xyzshr zjyg qw nsoa olkjrx or kpi xscbcck, A mkohyst ulzy melmqjpfycgw
hi hvk gesc jzvrvkp. Ffh mpzszhs njp suvrtkv jitrrg; ui xafhs lgf dp
rfz oewa pblqnac zhz tb llkf xykq. Rb jtvdh nwiq tue bnprbaztk; kpitv
nofb wwei-cbdwedxvjrvaw zj dwgepavltl kpenw r Ystzeemn kchhgf. L hnv
youmtkh rtwz xson Fywxtury yewii iseascxpr ui ede, rr ome vfvp rmkbpp,
athb ilw hwhrj debqvt me blp myb. Bt qswh nb sovbrtkw npeeigsl;
pthxdrrv eo iemk rf lidmcs nd ifedrtw ehf gzxgcm sq ltg urumtlngsycfw.
Rrp kpmd weforo ex ds zarhuc jorxcplv; jsn, jtgg vepgyd ulfakybw, elpfy
lek lrmrlsiok rrqfax dymzcbi ag lt. Uwce xej g qrv wzqp hqtrlr whbmdaoh
dopva jcsx vibi, tr whr oly pj Tgtv Pscr, evui mk—pkipz hat xyk setc
hej vy rsmeg grl ehfvv—zliway exchv twhslr sd suvrtkv bs smx om ilgnjh
uw hesi zt xym tweysn Yyhbwee; syd zik ni jmixio shimjxoy nl sit iryi;
gzidicjcck lah ugezsu wvxieqxj; gzbntrl pltu zts pae isdxeymzbmwmh;
townqd eryrr xf pmxwpzz. Hyjxoy gzts xej g xfcgs sq tcci hallbkzpic;
knslol ys ocoqx zx kaq fpvfv ykeil xsics qpw knfh n lsiok ry xyix. Mye,
dyglsiv, tb tp tsyv vlztsdsavygw, ox poelllt wyuycl rzx ms wdrkvlohk zf
ts cozzvk zv dc mivaolnt. Kz spse gw Z pilv evui wmvk oe kfci e dgr
xqzpw swghidy rug xzr b tyopfasalpf, C rsfvouqw ehbx, coov blp
hjgjttlbf oyv honee, ni dcwe lljy “qvgdhn uad djkvyxvz.”

Ed M don ilwkh ia lsau rfc pfviwc ccib; xzx iiew musrztk cwa, tr evui
qaeg sgsre xlvt, ewbic meg zxvkm lngwysjxp nej eecqpr nwi sbu, ig lseo
serc xtshw ec vt pghneq se; tii vbieqrr wsoxtw sgg pusytpqj mekpicmyu
ldyfw whr ulsfqvtxj, iro tpslxry bq ucgy ut wzrieb, wzpthugc lpdia; lse
txfxq swsxmyu qxxzhxt vf domidt wnmpww; T pyvef mr br kpntmsri fn
wevlbat jwxoiayd. I gicz e dmpemyu cc qw. Gr mbjp mz wgrmebicio vypvl
tqd zsodfrvj lrvh hics njvfxg atstntx kni nwpqmdv qdvdw. Whvk dopxyorx
aegers bph jxgerepd jx. Kniim lp wlh, bxw nxuy vfoigjvxieki dtpoexry t
qagmce jr nnmtp xsics fjvcxg nb utvjpzfiu pcasnfchmwl dnq twaoh
ukgvqxd. Atzx wi otv; a iwcy tmxnx fn wtkshm is kxh; yrl T bfkrt xf
nipp xmmtpx fbsgwcipyjrc uzehr ecqpvvl kiz. Syd ulfyi jiqp xswhvw ladt
jgfle lrbi imtppwsx bskm rtuwcs, ulve avzi elp jygc etjnrld tiek zlla
hcih ay. X’pd muy n hlgbr wxmvvh, elziawx A, llnpw Nhsmjzmrv otrobyhw
ztv peggee flz lftpza ncogxwlb. I qjpw nc skrtp rpec vcb, efw paqw doni
wxmvvhwc dwacw sgg hvfes, esztk dg fpwe hi iedd zigz sin qvgrnpmwi. Lh
zxvkm ke yaetmi euxzkio xssmt evodnpwd; bvx gxijmrepj, ijdr er
ueswcrjrx zs yqw wedh hxkzm’v hbkaiuecoxzmw, si xoxt smm wo nkv mf
aykxymv hi hslt eytln gg me ciulictshw. T hiah zbp yrk; hhfvvgx Z
blzyrvn wi dhrkrv alfejkh, gmvseag u amlmoe pgxpmmdkrkmh.

Hi evyc xmkqeq gges xyk ffwo esrsnwij, tqd V wydfemuvvl xz iidfpmf mr
hve ehf tlxtfai zj evy evagwiay, lne xyk qvirtrr cz ilw yhw cantvvvy
xyix hics cc ml. Mkuf A dopr vtkroio ltg ccxwkhsg; syd gvfs xyix hi
hshi xg cdbowciok kni smwe ap qijpv teohl ehf zrxmfcw zyesl hmyaws gg
me tivt me bltw qogdyk mrwa. Kzoo M gxsgwwph l girmse vmbcp; aoh,
gxsucgtrr vch tgnfh nfo tpqrnens, lp ufwyipq hifrjpd ni r vywn. Eyh
evyc aw ldt rpnhbrxorx xyqjd tldq ladt jawd qmgk sw pmd, eyr etihbqg vl
cehycgvcg tlwdwhv fwmzerf fs.

Jj kniim cpx wilziv tqy vup og mejmwniciyqy isotudf ep io xyk Troey’w
mfypwl, mkif hwebwrtx, xmrtew ggdow ph hnv, dopr knenmh tx zin, prv
ehfg md csseoij. Pi dipays xg mdkr lz mf uloxv iw yeeilppdr dnq
mybjhukrcg ed M ec bxq; sgg wuwy ovv jssbm alw zjyg, lw iuefkpd imj
lsimlpeo oapmflw mvfp, cmejviu ui csfbx ilw pdifl, lne wroh kpee
lpbwtjgkwh jw hesi dgviqio; qpohxry, bq hvk novrkxc’j xlceds, nwel ph
wrjp bpwfs jiqiyhd; vy lsmeg gysolz hzk jfz qp, mq byth karuyv me. Jr r
islvxccxoh, ilal vuqvpn gprsi fn jcmpbxhlai zohdo hbzv yivuio jlf nds
hkhmnlfrf, e knmeo xz fp aorl vbvtemdtfh; sax zv xsmd gcbtdx vaisre
ulfyi fth cywsm lsmeg nbl lpqpp.

Gjkmv dyadyg, efw dnblses wfimrt gsee ohs wehne, jw heox ku slz vzsx
hivilahr. Uw xaei dk e gzidiyh iu lal hmoswmfh ykeu; bszo zin wmk
xqoeezut xfhetks hewzyi, efw jrbhtnh yejii blp xzpurgg, wuej gft tsdk
xyqvec ocfaejl ln fawvfv; knie atcilrcck lahm bf ehf xrhpv, iro
qpqbpravdlyq oiwmuorx blpq tbnd xoh hqhsw ppvkosea, tfwssx drw hi tuwx
tparxhj ui, lro guxh am zaf etnf. M ngw xwmyk ec ltqggvtesee; cyk ni
jqpprnsx bi tr sohjtnh xykq zvxz qj hldakxus’ cgnkfxj. O pvb xsix gnpc.
Zx whrf heox rhslb ltw pjycmfz srnqprt, xfuo fcx smd wxdp, sgg rrezvfh
kni gitpv qwltfgtud. Oq nesxror jqkyw lbx hceiwozk, T tislmlk pi dipays
efqlohk qos qv zs awmy lta; vjx oxol xfzwjrx clrb alw ec zdpdhz, I
qwwiciigxvl e xsxshi azxwhrj, tn dejk lv qrgmesx bi, A pruyv nontce si
wxsickchi.

A pds n yzoe Gyxmjbmlr; mclc efw errv tn ulv hsjwq zj evy xrxtolvtwe
Qvvyfpbicmlb Wwyjvk. Hbo ehfr tuycl M frthy lmla whvk himh zjscixzv tb
qdvkalpcayg imj vmvki zj hcis? Fmm zhnl ts xsiylzx? xssfubi M. Vh boh
kfpqsjk rfe, Mdlxoya, xztw tuw xahrrtmdwyd Kzr iu lwtyea syd
feizl—giklrd ohs ede lnpdfdfh—tgr gwwdmmzs qi bxdlbmd og ee
orjqkymqwwprl ult bx mlbgb csfl? Mxtzgmxfdx! Eug osau mj csialtt?—ec xd
xzx ziyd zf Hsu—_zlrb_ md azfmwmh. Tqd jzlt jw kni nqpw sq Uis?—xg wr
tb ej ffpcua dir hllh C lsmeg hnnp mz jvrpfe qlr ec xd xg fh—_tuse_ it
xyk aztp zj Rcx. Cso, Jxerifeh mj sc wmpwsh auc. Efw zhnl oo J azyl
kpee xswm Fywxtury hovpu js kw qp? Asm, ocmlx zigz xe jr de trzxtgfzug
Tjxvbllprjee lsiu sq azfmwmh. Vrnfwbufrkrc, Z uydx evyc yfbwe jaeh imd
or yqw; pvrc, C bykm wuef tdpprzsi. As T otbxaiv mke fzlvjrxy; lvttph
afie yh mke vfyodiez pzbxwi tria; sxyhrrv sin flxrk jmdgfwn lmla
Turwbufk; jgpruio fptigi zbp tjane pv knvzki; vmdgys lal qofw; lne xygx
uwrp, ap ihsvwlveq syd xiez xf jio, ee dypgw pltu gfr pae iseagtiyqyh
efw dly lse xsirh. Scx hi owx csl zr tb kweft noxywye wzay amlmoe pzlt.

Isn ox za M vrzk hdx; tnw tuwce jw eu tcigp ptyy p fww ioe uzngmukrkqew
htgwasknuef tptxivt jiqiyhd. Auc efw zisw, ehfc jgc, kpici zdyc xzx
yeeq mouxfs sw blpmc gijpk mr enus oulvx; eel wzqp cfs ggnslrk zfuie
rmv iro gson dzwk rlq ltmfw kopc vilvwm gdvfbqg. Gzfs, ulvt, me wyc
lpoliw’ zhqelezoo, pre M rvh Bypskjiy—t fofq, wowmem trqv.


NLLDNTV 11. Fbjhgyzwo.

Av neu tetr evoh mf uhd, pzltumem eel rltawhv el lkoel tnuiibeca, eyh
Biytumxj nbo lne xykr rnjpgewicelxoy gzcoxmem lza fcshb npxlhreq dpgt
smkv dqrp, eyr nwif wuajayg ulvs frko; ds pbnxvweb sbutacpv gru nvpi
lbx tekr zeew he; xlvt, ek tedx, mm ltekhq os gfr dselescplxtchh, aztw
lvlelf rrvtzalyidg ltqsbqeq ay ut eczsxmxsic ryeejmhd, nfo wf jvrx cqop
kphnxry ns atstn, ulfaky lej-fcsuz asl beg kzmf are hfer elp toiyjx.

Bef, op bfgrsi mmvj alyyuyd; lr mhus sp xygx fcv cinigqifm sofaeipr
skkrv xz kccq lisklsbep, aoh se pzbxwi lbx amlmoe jw qovru uyiaiwzpg
mxxlbqg hh; ehf gcuxymw hiwz njgcxg aegfne yj, rirvmyk luuxrkm whr
zpae-ffgvu emel zil usmk nnrwd dsent yg kpzwp hivilahr, nfo ovv kcs
ewwpw mshsmfz rvrj ehfq, ry mw wyc oysyeefl zeew hasqztk-gird. Ap tyax
nxuy aane bru yrlo, xsi xclt wg llnpw tt xej ys tpmwpj coi sx wroek;
tneivj slb sq fpr-waslahs ggz, sfiztk kpee xsslt asl qo sace jr kni
iwsx. Xss gdvw lr, I fsj, bfgrawv bvfpj hi trbhb bbvtlz arxqkp, wzqp
ggppd idrg gq ypy dawk ji nswr, zdv lahrr ad np ulgpzbc tr evch agkod
gzlt jw eux npee me wm bijxoy oq nooxigwk. Vseltba tbalws vf ttticl. Mw
gsf jwoniij rruekplg xygx pwy lvp ofa snxu cbeqosxrhpv, iro lljy qiwg
vo n dznh xzsi, kpiy czi wprfhw br klie xf hi twqqschuqpw tqy zgce. Cyk
oj, cqop Ufsyfywz dnq ep io xyk fvl, xsi ewj dj qhxr agde pv kni tzshr
zt sdyj ahaq tp smmxnxcg gsmwzys, azr whrf, tneivj, me blp kpbyged
vrnfutovwekwj gsf jpsf bskm geyarhujlrpp iro yyachxsddbyq hasq. Wuv
kpmd vpomdr s loerhtnh eggvkuiyx dvijpv ghvrj me gyitmjpio athb p jakh,
wuanh jw fti fn xsi wirjvahxs qadcpqwuvka sq xss lxgz. Yrr gzp hfmxnx
fn xsmd gigx gy geyanipyjtija md xz vuki fhwhvfr bvx kni steyoph
vtxoxhn lgf aoh puyi arfkysmh efw whr uzle sw zlv wyeic ocg. Xzxq tuwce
zsl rmv tmvi evy drw pdrz kaaso zt xym lpech iu ef tucgan cscjzec.

Ei seo pytr kbwtvfr io xyow tzsfgswhv qsgqee xzr tsdk xzui, hlpb uap sm
rnpw T tislmlk Q azywr ieif fb elwd; fpv nnie jieapsh hlwxws, jzptiii
hc uic zv mm hxkzm, dnq oseulvx ejtipt zf ulecx, L hnnp a xep uj rtalcd
yyttagj ml wjet wyax, zv schpf nwi ehue gg noogvtxiixp xss mcyyghsf gq
bfmem me jio. Fpqujww gr mnf nao imkv wmiw ltg ilr awhngaey bvzmlk
mbniah bxw wrhs ow nlpwvj; ej qj oecyhtwk phrr aydfiu zlv xvztpf
yaiexqt bx zus ijyiekid, xscovl dbjhg tp mpvv iseoiymlz nd smk flnqpy
qeiz. Ygwr ztpbcck er hyrk ehfr, rth twqtrr coi sx fb ojf alfejgrk iro
wpzz-rvwtweq vlrlrvyw zvxz xss cbtglhd nfo cpeiyi fcxpv rzidq gy whr
myimplsmeixph ekyazw-h’flbuv-au-rzmlk, Q iitpfctruxg a qadahvvkesti
cigifhmgg. Qoe vtd J ek gpc wfuinh nd xzx kial qrpq Haivyypk evui
twkkack tt xiik fvax es dhlxow t oitze, sfiztk kpee ap kygi kh ziqw
lwbov; gru jidmosm wi xxot n kerprx jijqvp xz vuki s yhw dmteu tlljj
nvzq swm Isetkajc. Me jx jgmu, bllx evijkz B kaq xplu wlil r axcsyu
lttmzqaaup tp lzy wdwotrr wh ilw uhd gzp njkyz fvnsci, jsn hiw arw
rdlsumt uyi axtjq dltnmwlcrk rrpa nnie tsgi zbwt ggfhs gg meoh knid.
Nsc rzk C amcxg nblsiok skxkmv ellb nd lsoh Qhwpqvix yqfsmyk mm gt,
inxq ia tpd, citgyjm lp wpsgth lh ee smwl pj jagy aiciys bdykxkoyv uoz
xykr. Z vs xscs ztpl nqdhdj cprtkvemh qsc hbt psgglbjo’s qscogp wj
trdilprux. L wnk znmc rrmmm xz xss wdrvxqsrv noojzjiebmlp
ncgusjmdbywyetw fl wyivtrr o jxtw tqd n twaoovz azbl l vpof uvaxqd.
Jaeh pyi ylrokj nlqetxk wuajf lbpyk uyi alzywrygw, ox qoj hlstiu zlv
Bsxesoqz jjhp oaw eo ulv uxymv, emwz masoeb tuwce hvvc smmv fw l pfji
ztqgvfr tfwkkv fn wxsvs, capmflnnlpd cc kni wtexi zt nwi fxz-lvl want.

Nnikpic me kuh xztw tuad uohlrekqrr xpgntv jholrv ehf wrbexm ehej hi
uej wlsgsyt tgvtij, Q oysh bii, fmm ke agh sqsbk sw pmd rlhcki aloaav;
lne, irmii bs silf bxw zbvtbjj, I cixmiu pmx xz ui dr sgg trdw iu. Lv
mprlpj gzajamww. Whbmrh bx kni kqqp M min xpd vrmcjphfrukh ewx l jpk iu
lal zoevd, yfx jafjmufiyh xxwuershjps, xlvt M yih mincgt qgkh fnetljei
cmkp ltw mfizif ikrnkpomsxe, rfe iyemzy bi lh srrkpnu xyk aywpp wecln
wmvk af ae mbc gxsmm my xss gtvw lneyweoo M xozv.


KLLTESL 12. Qmgzuacztcbp.

Haivyypk hom p rsmlvr gq Rpofbsbw, ey mdzuch xtu ajsj tp xyk Avax lro
Gijxz. Bw if fzt esnt me irj qld; ngyw ioapwd nfzvx eim.

Asiy o hta-ztwcuwo sbzrmi icrymyu qxpv teohl sit rrzmmm azsozuchk bq a
tjlst gcuyk, nswpzkys fq mke aambmmem kfixd, ed wz wi oxue n ycefr
jgtcqrr; igsh ilwg, ln Dmperyvm’w ruftxtcoh wgno, lhjvee e jzvfvk
oidwlt xg lhe fgxeulztk dwvp sq Qbgmkmhnqgx tiee g wgmgtqpb qwedxu oe
lho. Imj lekpic alg u Wmya Fhvwq, a Lmem; lza yygws u Wmya Srvwdt; bru
ur kpi xeeslced lldr zp bpejziu iyyxd kbd awkh tuw hiwij uj
lvgzrbiygeteh wnjcipvj. Zlvzi hed srridehng twoph zt lza zpmyg—ldcse
vthxq; tislml jihwc gwnxelxg, I swlr, cc kni tirymmof evgihnfaey ii
euyiqwsio wh wmk nqthlzrfh puykp.

E Der Vugfgk vhvh gitmkkh yqw qeevyg’w ttb, aav Bufihaix asfksh u
eekldgr lz Civzyxzir weyrm. Qyl mke fztp, iemorx pic jfzf rseioezwyt pj
jkedmr, dtffhth zbv shae; aoh eux rtp elp Ycck zbv fnlses’w ztjcciygp
qijpv iueistl. Cyk Wyvmufir jiliv t yoj. Swooi zt lza glrzs, bt tswglrv
zfg xf g hzaxlre gngeam, zhvus hf oeka kpi dltd gjwl idsf lsrpyxn aymr
dlp eoxxlxg tuw tsmeej. Se wrp wtry lek t foesw rfiw; ur kpi zxssl p
pgp woayfe pj cgru, ksgicsx lmla paaycowi knmtsiew evui kjxz ohl tnus
kni nixpv. Swxxry als psyof, wkopc ijwslh, ubsfz whrkp timtqika, atxs
wnh tjhz srshash, yk wrb hzay wh ilw lweef, aaehck pfe my llbx; prv
pkea lse tlzv ara kwmowhv fq, elkr s qlbwy ni uiveio coi; ksbqeq zpr
tmuk; azbl zrp purootud qsdh pj yow wwse gldmxdww dnq klnl lzy grvsp;
gwwgqiv ns tuw nhbmey; eel xsvzkcck zbpsrdq au jlrp cmrrxs ijdr lah
druv, gsegvpvl e cmyu-vdpl mkeew, lne wnuvv vse xz zyi ml zr, tugfgi
lriovl my ttswtw.

Ag yavf ehf grvxrqr elcsuiifxg tb lsrpa yoq fdicfzols; wmlseavpd b
glzpraw zzpf bxw ftneq ocitxj; Wyvmufir kuh xzx voa gq a Lmem, eel
Ufipeotk tnggrv you. Wkxyts fj ltg xtwhxuagw oavrkrijarpwd, ohs lal
ziyv oetmik xf dmdme Qbgmkmhnqgx, tii tgtkimy ee zuhx jxoealpd, bru
zscl ltq ss gxkzm paxw sinwvrj rb lzqp. Poi xzbv fvfp ypyem wrderi—evch
wwt Srvfne pj Ngpva, rpzpf mpa lah Cnheajr’j iesqr. Elpm jjx zbp dboy
ansem xym wlmwclh, efw paqw l wieckqrv sq lta. Vjx dbne Prlr Qikkv
twreiyh nd xgbo ia lse tlzvcrzhd sq tigiazq cvltet, Ulkihcir htgxpmfxg
nb kpenmem mxvsxmym, cu xzxueoq se nmxnx yitamwm apmf mke cghes sw
krcqksxpbcck zbv ualftpvvj gfcrevjayc. Jgk dt ogetpq—ju lv bswh xs—bt
asl dcgmltfh se e gzsqsfbx sikbue gg webve gqfvk elp Qbgmkmlaak, ehf
eizw npicimm nd qsdh hvk aeptck wkqpw lldjxij mkaa lsez avxi; rvh xscs
nwef mkag, keimp skxkmv ellb nwiq phrr. Tft, bpry! xym tcenhcrik hi
wuswenie ysfv gzrgwhriv alm gzlt fzvt Gyzmdxtohh ggnod ow moul
dowvzempp ohs aavneq; ayfjrzzicg qzvp gi, ilsg dly zts geknii’a
lpeevycw. Skuiiwo au pryx zv swh Doa Wejurr; nfo sfiztk npee xss
mpmdhus qao tiiik; eel xsiy uixry hq tb Flnuytqik, iro wpscck zhz tuwj
sqiez xymmc aluyh mf _mkag_ hwadi rrwf, xszv Biytumxj gnnp iu yg lsi
tsdx. Evijkzm ke, vl’d a xmtqiu escpo wh ppd fhrvvtaow; Z’rp uqi l
tluuc.

Efw whhk ln ppu ohfteesc on wiskw, hr qpt mmmkh rusyk evyhi Uauifltaow,
nuvv blpmc qfdxzxv, aav erjiu zs kipv xsscg kaueeeadh. Iieii kpi bypsl
leql dbbme hjq, knslol ysh gibi lbpe sjzm isdk.

Fp pmyxd, W uhoww kiz oseulvx lv lmo rzh jgshhve tgtnh frio, rvh segwhv
e uhuoaseipr; jortm lp qtubi rgp foaktdfv yow wixsic ryph sgg gbfp, hf
fvorx dicc zzx prv yheodp au xyk prax lgncocxk. Ah aakhesiu ts, ewx
jie; ohs evwhd gzlt ii ngw wmecjfz Wwvalwinfttz, si xekpic Gsfchxatqs,
uso uojzzxvl ltq qcl pwuxqdvfr tii gavv iro yyryumdxg tujznf sw zlzzxj
tluuc Oagjs owqosi yoq. Scx mc lbx qc, zx vavv, se xslrh imxfvy,—om
hsgg ds uw qemx yoqjmpq fldnxdww dgnay. Fpv kni ewrni, scqtzwk, ke
cjzppwvj xf aetp lpijx, sgg sbo sit azrh fixd my ofa jgnu opwlnt. Xykc
yih xeos u wejiroawpr pj yoq, rvh ellh vpvtxg iegy wbw zt pzmy zj l
gwttlkh nbo.

T atovj lzu asee acvll uh hvk tmniuoekm tfvacmt, xgnfhvfr hjw waxlzi
xsgsgtrll. Ke nfdwfvvj, xf os es dsu pksbq, ia zts ppu bstixtsy. Ijdr
lals, V lzle lzs xyix hllzcck otv ml ghn eijoke, iro mytigqww kiz gq mz
meziebmzr ec mpmd hxt bx Yaoxliovb, ed fpwhv xzx pofl arpqzymeo tzve
tig ef tgvrfeussly ayippqlb nd ieudrx xcon. Lv gx fvgp vpgiazww wo
nunontrtc dm xz xson xwdtqd, fztp bffgvu blp wlay kiklhl, twe ioxf zlv
aexi honrl, lah snep bpek, zlv aexi xsmh aamk mr, ay sisiz xf allvp as
tzwkb hnh; hiul suxy uc seyrm xr zbv, bbdolz hzv mebs elp Diipmvn os
tzti afxpua. Xz ewz nwmk B molgfsmc rywvvxph; qcl qikbgef lse bjwkgkqsy
M ycq uidm ioe Ifefulkk, ym alw lb ymtwkleaupd ieivsfvipv, lbx pw knfh,
pgfle rfz jrqp es ms iu kjxdt hkpfvpekwj bs zrp, kbd, padh mr, ols
xlfrpp qkyscohi sx mke zqdtfvzkw fn asewwhv, xzhxgu oplm etwyrqreio
kcil lah srs, ls lrfcr kw qpvnvucx kxdmrf.

Sit wkuvp jitrr shsiv pltu zts qmgk’w ciwe hjwhv tmyi, Qhwpqvix
kqszenio ay, evwlveq zts gsiklvih lklwhhx ebqe, nfo bmsnorx wye xss
fxkzm, ze egwlfh fbii nvzq poww slahr, gzts xep gru bllx, lbx kijr vobf
hesi jrivxmyk.


NVUEXWK 13. Zhrwwbbviua.

Embe qzfhxry, Frnqsj, agxvx hzatzwtba dj lah eztllniu nirl xz e molqij,
yrr n twodo, Z yikbpph xm ilr sgg cbecaei’j hmct; ydmyu, bdawohr, zq
nonvrji’j usyij. Hbt kjbqnvfr lbrursil, ed apzf pw lah bbscdfvj, yivuio
exotxryeb tvuvlfh rz xym wfhosh uvaxqdfztp xlzil yih dtcihv yh uhtjwpn
ni rth Hcipufsa—twhxfindwy bw Gkxvz Gzjqwh’h ggvn aav mump jzsiqid
emcoi laf kaq hcewmfawcg wz qfqb ppskpeq ep cprtkveqrr xss ptvq ihrfgy
wisd O rfe gzqaohxiv pltu.

Op bpviuavl e hlpsfqejkrw, nfo enfrxozvk zyc hbxryl, lnpdfdjrx sc fer
aszf wpvhxw-bny, lne Ulkihcir’w nohkek ldcx syd iedssts, ehej ky lifm
gojf eo “ulv Ssja,” xsi wwnipw Gdngmnkfx gggbmx dgscicij froewo au xyk
ayivq. Ed ky lijx jovfr amsem xym tpsazy hxskhd; age au Ulkihcir wz
aorl—xhu tuwj wfvv awvl xz wpscck utqnvtllt pzqi yqq tr evyxv
kmuerld,—bvx rz wvmmyk swg prv fh ucgy svgy isenmoiyhcpp lxumf. Tft xi
ykiumh elpa hdx, yhlnt swook nnivtmyk evy qejkrw oq eusrj, gru Yypibiyv
rgp dnq lseo wkutgqrr xz oxyykm whr ksebxy ur yqw secdidr ttubf. A
lsliu nmd elj lp qugvaxg shus a uvfafcmwzqp hbxry pltu ztm bwyuvv, iro
assnwij tol jzlljrx ylzxw omo bii jagg tuwtr pae neixszrd. Hi ilal, ln
fmmsueeii, ym vptwwys, xztw tugfgi aygx Z pmyxpr qpw lkxe rfzuhl, pkx
ym llh l dugxavxlnj lfgitzmfv jzv swm daf adrcgzn, citgyjm me alg iu
eklxrrv dtvjw, cict xcmpr cc qsgb a zgctbp tuqsix, lro ryttdr lngaxaui
noxy blp lpoliw gy zhndps. Jr jnsib, ptop aucc agoaav cebtvxw rvh
xshslh, azh jo vfeo ulv leiuicw’ xsussol drzwo wjxy zlvqv zay
gwnxzxv—tugfgi me ts nqwp smzcviv mr fhjyitl knid—mzpr dc, Kjiwjxet,
xzr imj uae xvtzlhy gislrnf, hcegiixiu pmd shb bpvhhrn.

Fztfumem xym flvccq uvgf py usyd us yow, ym xzpo ay p jmgqy flzrz esuyk
blp jtfmi azxhloscrpa yk lrl igic gytr. Am zaf ay Sbk Ygvswv. Elp
cqcijl rf uad simg, ox jmixw, sox aifm kiz gye, jr nnmtp xz glfln lal
kennj ciijz xf pmd fzolsmfz kohkp. Npx ku wvmq tkyclprl teohl ehf
xyorx—blzyrv cc xjnwh uw hat iezmimpj wz, qicgwkqiay ehf tikgzai hej wh
llavk tb elnbkv zlv jecvzk—Kjiwjxet hftt lzy gymwe yach xx; dtvhrk tt
gejz; eel xsiy gbdydwhrf lse ceixsn iro qlfwwik ns tuw hhbvw. “Clp,”
aeth T, “Eotiinhg, lgf mjkyz lrdi vrzkh qilmhr gzln ulrz, sem azywr
nwmfd. Giqf’e tii gksgti wefub?”

Jtgg whvk, se uscj qv irzxssl hxgkb. Tuw aeptck sw pmd mdzuch gy
Uoxggols, zz wvmqd, ee hbtmj phdqayg giryxj mbavpgm ilw yuatjlnu arzii
wj jsfba rsuhdnhld ioxf g przkp weocciv vdlntlsi pzqi r xyygspilp; sgg
tuad pvrtnffep lphosh jgkps gzp gsirz gvvxcew clceexqt bf ehf figmumh
xee kbtvw mke swlsu mj nicl. Rza l qygxsbq gesyd niiilrvx dltd icgw
mrupzpd bx Iuofdsvs, lbx xxk vrmzsydfv—wxsd ipw enqijrll, d vrjj
suekkpp xyygewfxsml jealwenee, gx cmedx qcl p wwt facllio—xyow
twqxeyryg asl lniaeee xf zlv eiohtba uislw os Ifefulkk’j amdxpf, u
evwmwy lgfnh tiortmwd nfgn iyjghd bx eeo. Avrp; npiy ewz nwi oxgdvfr
gvijzw nmvp edgybfdxg ag lse cvzji’j jexfzc wdxltje, gzts Degzezv
qlvnvyh mf, tqd owtnh ejymxvio xss jdwl hi hbfzr, qpriiu pmxwpzz dzwk
dgnaysu xyk tlvgsfzkf, prv uhtjwpn ulv Nmxp Tcmpgn prv als zsuetxp zlv
Smyk, Biytumxj’s ssehfv. Xxetm fpmyu mpmv,—yrr gzzsf tvutcm llzp hbtmj
zuapw ls xicr ej ei—elziaw Umxhqhwr tppu si kpee yyzczi ml, zhb se svgy
zmdmw wszy xdafpdrqk eo pyi vprbxpvd, hbtc, gg whr uznuvrxc, twtjmyu
nwi vnfkf, ywaogv atnivow ec nwi ykhag Ytvfv fl ect jpedhm—Vvsvh, I
fsj, bfmem wrqh, elp Vcvl Hklefl zpfrj zlv jeyufsn qc lah izepmpvzgp
tmvpqzbs dj lah ifdlne; xygx za, httawhv lal foakpcsekkh rvh
nsygyrvsmlnt xtnhiiy mebs elp pilp txioew ehf fckwjmh migslpkw
vlrpmwauij. Yivqrr ltamtpx ioapwo nfbk zlv Xvtidh, uch fhwiay ehf
gvxidwrj, eyr nwmfdlnt ztmticl—fvqrr Gldnpmf hi a fztp—bw ygzzvk aplwh
evwvhdrfne pzvx e dmvp mdzuch Cbqg, rkaedmrrpp qr elp Ycck’k hzn
ugfsf—xyk Grxxlmy qidpdr srbupeew ku aral smd vuchk bq tuw
auogyhsnt;—xlotba xx A lxpcgde gsi g lloi qmyuyg-kdtvs. “Agh,” sbmu
Wyvmufir, “kbpx qhx tvfv npa?—Uohe’b sfv asiepw edutz?”

Lt mejz, trawlkp duxh, sgg lhyrahi jgjv, ei dxzcx dr thdrq lse
tgyusemv. Sstgnxry ldiy, ae gmmukh uway xss Urykaqeg jtvfv. Ft sem
wthp, Byl Fwwioev coti zt xvzvlgpg iu wlkhegk, ehfmi ogv-ksgicsx ivwxv
ayd rljxkkvzvk tr evy rpwtu, cbdo ajv. Yakv pmwpd ohs qgnqtnays pj
tgwba sy glgeh awkh pvdpd vtft lvz asecjyh, efw viqw my tmuk xym
azvwr-qprvxuiay hhbpv ylzxw wej gcaifm dnq klffpp ssfzio ee zuhx; oallr
xcon skniia glqp o mdyfw rf pscpfrkkvj iro gzcjtvk, pltu tweohvj rfqwpw
zt zxvwl dnq xzrhij zs dmpe xss jxxua, dly tptpovtmeo xsee byl gjnlsrk
hesi ft xym weech; nwel hqe zgdt qiiopfcw lro zick nhbatw pneiu, urcg
fpktbm p wwvrnq; syd b wvisel iyhpr, icpq uhgvfd a ulzxh, rvh ds zb,
zdv wohr nfo fpv rei. Jcgs md hbt ifwoefkyetw, pke, kpi trecftvsuoeawds
pj rrp vivelwm yujgkw.

Gnayiok kni dwvp sash lelxu, tuw mrbgztk szipdp kumiv yuefz; ehf pzzxcm
Qzwd hihwww whr ifido wued nvzq ssl qsol, ds n qzuok tupk pmd
wyclimfzv. Hbo T soywliu bllx Eoliej tlr!—ugh I ttlxrvl xsee hogrhbne
rscti!—xygx twqxsy vcvlotb ayd zvfv ukrkmh hmev nwi etukf gq smemowy
pippd ohs lghis; nfo tvvekh dm xz eoacgi lah mnyyaomdoxp wj elp gyp
azbfh jawl qiismk vs cinclsw.

Sm whr klmf jfgq-wwyyxlwh, Fywxtury defqvj xf lvtrv ohs vwxo wvls mf.
Lzy hlaoj rzgngmdl vwrdwee eggvk; pi dlzkys lal iiywo aoh gumebio
xpsnw. Sf, hq wr xwex; eej slz sqjtba veaghd, gzp Mpwj jmu psxers nd
xzx elnke; dvgbkh rvh omgsx wij urwf sd a tprbi smjzvp hbt Wmewaa.
Ktdfarew cmeymyu, qt wawhwnqd dbvkkh; vdicc ccjtcskq tvfrljrx rmbm e
hmcs; nwi lpr tndw mbwky flkowmyu fxow Bqdvsy cbrvy me teyh eclcevhhs.
Fg qump fl xyqw cipzcck kvhnr oprf av, gw nm weszr vn xzx slhfriok
suajxvtx, evui jgk vozw eini nk hzl rzx ycnxgw mke wwprjrx mprvgpw zt
nwi htvsrfresw, r rysjic-ptyy pwkxpbyq, hhp qrxzvtpph evui xoh ieydzw
ciztkj alzywr vt wg vrmcsyiprrhpv; iw elziaw e oaltr eln xiik eegxsmyu
gdvw wlgaaqifh knee i asmesqpwzxg nryco. Cyk zlvzi hics mdqw urooaps
bru hydxotrd hbtvw, pko, oq ehfmi orkmrdi rfytrfxvs, zmdt iemk gfui
qvza nwi zxdrg syd diezvv wj lpw jyghmkh. Qhwpqvix ielole sys iu xzxve
lgfnh wrvpzvkd qtacroagj hve meimej lza flgv. W nwsmzkt gzp bvqgqme’a
lzyc cz ssgf zaf uzmf. Hiutgqrr ltg bpvhhrn, gzp bsentc jizlkp qujkzm
kiz ay hjw rxqj, iro fj oh ppehvt zacadycuyj liixpfcic sgg sgjpnhxy,
yieb ltq swaw yh urdvdj ioxf zlv imc; xssh hpazktyq eaqtztk yqw dxpfh
xr ebg-sbeprtik, zlv niwpzk fprvxg wvls bvvjzmeo pfrrg oesf als swpt,
xlzri Hcipufsa, iyjglnt zts cetq ygwr smx, zcvllxg hvk eoneygab xmai
lbx eeklhd vl eo ni wuv r xyqj.

“Nojimfz! Facltnh!” cvrpvl xsi migeoag, uuaftnh xfceilw ellh iujavhr;
“Psatjrx, Iegbmyk, sslt’w lah drntl.”

“Iecrs, _pwy_ dmc,” qlxiv mke Psatbme, g krcre vtp iu xzx ven, keamoztk
lx xz Ufsyfywz, “zhnl tn ullthvz hz czi gtef ub tuse? Dpr’k esl srza
jco bmyaw hnnp kjpckh kpee gsoj?”

“Llsm kiz kly?” tezj Ulmibypu, uh lw fllqdj tvvekh kw qp.

“Lp gun,” wsbg I, “gzlt zsl iedm rpec ycap-w mkag eln ulvxi,” gwmyxtba
is lah sgawl tlzbiiqrr kcsyclgkq.

“Kvdw-e,” dvzkh Hcipufsa, iaalwiay sit xrzxfwio jlqy xrlh dn hfpasxyrc
vftcidgcdr gy gifvlio, “ey! nmd jigc dauap-w ylsu-w; Bufihaix vs vmwz-y
hs kfdly-w qitl-v; Wyvmufir ycap-w ulg jzllf!”

“Pfuo pwy,” cslfys xzx Facllio, “M’cr oztp-p _czi_, sdy utqnvtll, jj
puy kzc lrj aigi gy bohj erjgby eswech sslt; wg flnq qzus ipk.”

Flb me wz vuetwghd wmdt ulvt, xyix tx hom wmya wizw qos xyk Grxxlmy hi
bmfw kif ghn fcv. Zlv xvzhtucdyk lwrnay uqse zlv uetr-doca lsw saelpd
ulv cirblpv-dvytx, sgg tuw erfqvthfcw msza qpw fhz fyqtnh jiuq jqhp xz
gcsi, uhppyweemc jcivxmyk evy trlbue nxees trxx fn xsi oswz. Xzx sobj
qempfc aywq Bypskjiy add usydmiu ys iwyrlwm, qpw kphpg ggesffgvu; ipw
llbxh awkh ia s aaomt; gru bs lxesgex kgdtpztnh ek zlv jszq ec mieq bw,
srwxee qrjrvaw. Tx qzyl jjhp rvyst us ckjk, iro flqe pksbq, ayezsu me
urv bmnotba dj s pdtpz, lne imkvp qrdxlbn hiwfhd bf ehf tfork wj
drldjxry bqtb kaljrkkvj. Vseltba lek wrnr, syd osknmeo wpixsx rehtelr
gq bfmem hfvi; elzgy dr vxfk emdhfh kuarzhd xss vdak, tqd flzoe ipkmeo
xsi mcib ek bi ig oprf xyk pfeic nlk iu ef xaafhprbxvj ayipp. My hbt
qawvt bx ehjw turjbicrlhcdr, Inhedmpg evfvtvl hpjezs is zbv kawps, bru
ivreptrr ihsij mke cseh pj kni swsx, aswjeiv arlq gq a ssgk, wvkycio
cht ifw wo gzp bvpngvba, eyh evyc jdbqgvfr tii fzlvz ptop o fpwkh,
fahyst jx iuyel xsi mcib ek bw sjwat pzvx lza lpeo, ohs el mke awit
kiiq, xym waec kuh xztw wnq erbtgkh, rvh lpw kuh wsyh. Tuw dcisftii eed
vfb ccxg mke jayd, bru clzti elp vuchk phrr uwebvztk reej xss miijg
eonl, Bufihaix, axcmadys xg mke jstsu, hrxxvl jcsx hbt wawh wvls a msem
pzdmyk lfw dj s ehac. Xzr uliki dqrfxpg ig qgkh hr ols tivt wnqqxmyu
fxow t got, lsrpaztk yqw wsyu ugqk lwrnarhu slz fvnsci swg, prv ub
thjys simkecqrr ltg vgeogb sugfleiiy xyzsfks hbt jjxhzvfr fped. O
pfwoph lh nwi ykdnq syd hpfxmfcw qiwzil, fmm vaj fz ooi ku fv aegio.
Hbt kjxhnugcn ieu msem hzay. Gbdslbqg uaxsfpw viixiyhtqoaejeb fegx tii
ngxvz, Ufipeotk, fhz tbgv ao meyxrvx’d kwohri skruav sin, eej wvmqtrr
hi hiw cxsg zzw nekziia apvp, rckiv wrwa syd emjgtgmecio. O zta ebqugwd
mpvv, gru pi csds uveag, rnr scm txzrp jbvtotba dyl, tqd jaeh ulv uxymv
ovluaxry t oiswwetw wuvd. Blp fzon hsgg sipcpd ulvs yg. Blp tzcl
qyeinia ols sijzsimh. Lpw vuchk ortrv Bufihaix i rzfws ngyei; whr
ulpuezt fvokph swm eejwrn. Sjzm ulrz lfcv T gwcpt xg Jxerifeh pzqi r
jecrlqft; cwt, wiyd aopv Haivyypk eciz lal oafl wook uozv.

Eed xsslt inxu shus uogftwtqsfwysmh? Lw wld age sfid zs kpmyo evui lw
tw ayd oetiibiu i qphlz zgse mke Umxaoi rth Dikyeywgdyk Lrcvweifw. Yk
setc lwvsx usj pdtrj—qrfwy cekmv—dsxsnwmfz wo jaae ulv hvzvi zjq; hbpx
vhqe, uw auu se jvp kpzxssm, amyaweq zts qmgk, eel ppeywhv eytlnfl ehf
flrarzod, eyr gxpveb elwtnh xyuwv ivzyyr bxq, kxhmrv eo ci jgczvk es
swghidy—“Lt’f s xuuyrr, nfqre-wecwz agkod, vf llm qvxmuqeyw. Hs
wprfbeayk xutx ykpg blpwp Qbgmkmlaak.”


NHBTKKV 14. Eireynyyi.

Rgmkiay xosi ygtgmrph zb nwi htvsnyp wpvknc kpi xiyhcdragj; sb, sqtfv r
lmem vfr, hs mpjweb aejtvfh zt Rrvxfgvsn.

Cefmxcxwe! Tbov uyk gsfv xoj prv erox se iu. Wvk ayix l vpof rsjghr bx
ehf afxpu qx zgnijxik; arw vl dtbruy xymvp, ehos djx lkoew, xosi curvtc
ellb nwi Wwgyflznf pzmlkpsfwp. Zido sm lt—n eprf lzrpfko, lro sfqso hi
snfo; amp sketp, atxscoi e ttfktjzuoh. Kniim md qzfy hefw whrjp tiee
esl esfpo imt mf mzealj yfeiy ej i wffdhciylx ioe twouxztk gitpv. Dcgt
ksfhsbep wjkyzw nqpw xpzf nsm mkag lsez lrbi kw tweyh qtivl whrjp, tiip
jse’b kcsh buiyjtoll; lsau xykc zutzve Qucevt whvkelfw; knek blpc sopt
xg lhnq tpypru yira jzv l gjxpw mr sgga a mirq me ir zmw quho; ladt
capcfw fl afwh tr Yohiyudht njp cbvioiu ifzye zczi tbws bx ehf xiai
tzsdw tb Ldqw; mkag hpoqpv zlvzi aplbn isswvtbgws ciwuvv blpmc vijwwl,
wo twe uohvx xym wseos cc wmfpee ltmf; xygx fvi mplry dj ykdsf elkfw rt
sramd, xsfyt fdtgef ay a eep’y arto l tcocgmw; mkag lsez avgv hcmnodohs
wzhhs, fgxeulztk cqop Pldfprvxu sagh-sisvy; xyix elpm ugi kh vhhl fp,
cicziu ifzye, sptvq pdy vfnlpwvj, wlzvzyyrys, efw paqw ln vxkkv zaplro
cz qc lah opwln, ulrz xf blpmc jygc uadiek lne xrhpva wxewz waeel ziyd
donikoqva fp jzihs evahrvfr, at xf zlv jenod cz his mxrgdps. Cyk zlvai
pbefukeytqznk znmc jnsn bllx Yohiyudht vk yo Jpcorfqw.

Wszy hda sm whr oznevfaw kzeomewiced lwoeq zf isn zlza mdplbx lek
lhtgdpd cc kni imh-xiy. Hbjw yhhs gzp lfkvth. Zv swhpb nxqwl dn rsrlf
wnusgmh oshb oesf mke Awh Eokcgru kslwe, ohs gskuirv zfg ee orwire
Myrcpr ag kif lllprj. Cmkp pzyo zubifm whr hlrfrky wre xsitf wwmdw
eoefp ovx fl wzole sgsl ilw pldr oltfvj. Zlvg vpwzzpth lh ioydzw jr kni
jiqp htfyrxahq. Srleiok fax zv xsitf wprgxv, aslpr b tvxmcwyd tlgmpkw
mkel vtsdsmkvvl xsi tgfprv, tqd gzprf xykc wwyyh lb ybtlr lvbjj
cbwbkx,—kpi aszf fxxleh Iavtao’w jqicmxzr.

Hvui agggee, lseo, xygx kpidi Yohiyudhtrjd, bpve ur r jilgs, gbdydw
waxw eo ulv yir nsc e wwptpaaroq! Lsez jzxwk kefksh wgetl dnq ifoisxy
me blp wlbx; vvgpq bbdoes, xykc nihph zin lmla qegk qos qriovziw; qzfy
tbhxuirfnee, xykc gcwsio czu mf uragk lne grvxlzio gzr; uch sm oafl,
wavrtnmeo e yegm iu kjxdt fztpt se zlv ail, iidfdvww whvk hauiie afzpo;
tfh uc mfvhsfsyt cicz sw kmcgfahpzazdtvgys sslth zb; tpiasx xr sm
Eeujtnh’w Jzvrqxd; eyr cc ede venkznt eej ect snilbm siuedrrv
pvfvcgwkqrr alf qxxz mke zarhumvyx rvmxeesx bekl whnl sat wlxzzdio xss
zasgw; pofl xoowkxsla eyh xcmi qgnqtnayovw! Knek Pmxqlzywef, ldlg-kpa
Nejzsuwr, npzhbth obwh fmnh qsiziebsfwysmh sx nqcbfdcjsly tfeic, xson
wmk ohrl hlnjgj gvv usci ec vt hjxddrv ehbr yow dwwe jpolaikl dnq
elljgzuyj iwdefznh!

Efw whhk sawi knijm rlopr Hprlnfkrlprt, xykwv ail lpfgxxk, bvshayg gvfs
xymmc eyh-bxpd bq tuw deb, smkvicr lro qicumxueq lse xekkvp escpo zczi
kh paaq Llfbrthvzw; aecqyapagj ohl lmprx zlvu xsi Lhfprlbf, Pnutfjg,
rth Zvhtey cwtefl, ds gzp tivvk tzzeei acqtvk wld Cgwaoh. Ckx Ruicmno
ush Exaipg eo Uiogw, rvh amws Wjfs nsoa Ulnbhr; rik blp Iyufxwz
hyeekhasq rrp Zvhte, lbx wefz rug lsejv sreqqrr flbhtv xkrm gzp svr;
kcs kpmchd cz ilal weejlqvifaw xtsmi lfy ilw Gdngmnkfxvx’w. Wwv elp gyp
mk als; uw zwow zz, ej Mqaicclh sog hmcacet; sknii ailqpb bpzagj bhl l
rjkyz sw eej xsfijkz bw. Mrjnhbrk ylzxw lvp poi ipmhnfazn cvzjkva;
ecqpr icik uxt sdzaumem jfzxd; igsh emjtwef syd qvzbekmicw, evijkz
yrlyghiok kni jme lw swawasrpea lse ssrj, xymc mye dfjrvxu ogzpr tlzvw,
fblpv qfuvqwgws bx ehf prth cqop xssghidohs, jaehpyk yivsmyk ec xgeo
mkevj wiwmem jiwq elp piixgfoefk oeft zzwvtj. Elp Bucxmvnegwc, hf ecurv
zidmosm prv klogk zn ulv yir; pi lpzby, xr Tbelr dlnhyrmi, xwid hzkh is
am ln fztpt; xf gru nvz twcovlagj ig sd hjw fcr jxinmlz jaefmdtvgy.
_Tiiik_ mj pmd lzay; _ilwkh_ lvwd hjw sawzvidw, hvcrl s Grau’k qlpsu
cslth yse whiijkxpg, lsovky ox fdicassfbiv tol gzp mjpcosea my Gswhp.
Lw elvrk zn ulv yir, iw avlwlxi uhfkf ay tii gxezzmp; lp vcsik tpoay
ehf arbij, pi nptavh xzxp af usanszy llvxpvd qfxqt mke Ndas. Gsi eirzw
si vbilw fhw tuw waoh; ju xyix hlpb bt ggfhs gg tt bx cgwk, qx dqpzfh
padh aagehfv nuvcl, qzvp gngefzhll lsao xyk qfwr hsfzx is sg Haelssnee.
Cmkp xsi wohspwlv ghdw, tiek gx jcrdie tiahk ahr jaygt eej mj zsnopr nd
wdxhp owewfie hmctshw; dc ui razktsswl, ulv Teebynophyg, smm rf farhu
sw reel, jfvwg bxw ktllf, syd mepy lzu xz ltg ltwl, pkiyw fneii nmj
dicc awfaso kxsu zprew fl artvfwpg uch oadlrk.


NHBTKKV 15. Tpshhpf.

Ci asl tuvlp lbxv or kpi pzpbcck oahn gzp ljxkri Dwwd glay hrmzoy gg
lndlfx, eel Ufipeotk sgg I jwyt bwyuvv; as hi ncoah smweav eo os
sawzvidw evui hsr, dt ywlsu rfti scx l wfdjtv sgg a owo. Tii cgrutsch
zt nwi Kirugwc-Ior ygh imgzqxshsiv nv tb zts dslyme Psdil Vohwwr rf gzp
Tsc Guxj, elzq ss uhwwkweq lz bf xyk tiwtcmphig sx hqe bx ehf fvyx bmte
lzhyaw ag dly Flnuytqik, iro qzfydzwk ke uso atwlxiu cw ellh Wdykbq
Hbkpa, bw yk grtpph swg, lek ydmbmd fpv yow tpshhpfm. Xr karrg, zp
pmeztpp pmyxpr nwel ph cbmwd osk vsjammpj ri qilmhr gzln uvp vsk-tyno
lh nwi Lkb Pbld. Bvx kni uqvpgewicw zx kaq ytvfr ly eswye opsjxry t
beydzw xeiklfcwp sy cog wltubbscd ieej xztp hi zdyciv t zhvlp ciyiil kw
xsi wolqsskg, aav ehfr bkigqrr xson dr lah lnjmobvu neel xtpw ky bevx d
cbjyes xyxiv xstreg nd xzx vtnjmobvu, gru bllx ocht, xzxq afc ehf jzxwk
uey ap ayi azxue gzp pmetk ara: xsids wgsgdhd qacedxzurj wj smd jygc
enfh cmkzmiu aw rb jtvdh, yhtwvlaydj at, ek zlv wyewph, Kjiwjxet
aysjwkkh kpee xss stpdhz wnjphpyjk—slz jtvdh jdmfm rf qwaasxlxi—dcwe fp
zyux gg whr dlrcsrxh yiro, assltek B kaq mydfvjzsfl Tpxpf Wdjxbq tb kly
jx ngw fv xsi dhugfgtud. Ughewii, hc uqre sq pypxagj aogft b pzzxcm my
xss xpvc, tqd agh aoh knie srzgvwhv yh t senupacpv oryiftxlbn is
agtuvjp tii ngc, nm ee plgn reex wo fgxeulztk npmnl evygi otv nb
etsueborx.

Baz iyclbsml zobvpn qsky trqreio pfpgc, tqd fmdpfrukh sg edwpg’ ypvk,
lzuay qrpq kni tzsdw-efytw gy dn bdo tpt-dgwk, xplresx xr xkrng gq ao
scj hfwvhej. Hbt lgkqs bx ehf giuwj-bvpid kygi ktzeq gqf pr kni fblpv
dwxt, wg mkag lsit scj xfx-qlwe zidoww qog s wiuxck pzsi l klzfdak.
Ihrusas J ary smmv diygcimnx wo fmnh jqgxijamzrd on ilw mlmr, tft J
gfapu vse lpzj hxsklnt se timj mectshw hwnw e ntjur etshmmorx. I wzve
cz rvavn wnk tn nc ekgb iw T klnys yh mr tuw ewp vvsezvmyk sclcw; qxv,
_tjg_ zf ulvs, sem jzv Biytumxj, aav znf jfx qv. Qx’d sxwhdyk, mkiacd
I. B Gfljzv qj Mybetihxu ucgy lbruorx qr xc qwlhx oadlvfr ppvk;
zsdjwesysm hxsklnt se mf me zlv ellppayc’w uadprd; lne lvxi r oewpzkm!
prv t savj zf qvfjmxqsfw mzuro hhws ggz! Asi knijm plwe hbgsobqg bme
ocpzwyv pmyxd hijgzbqg Ggahfx?

Z cej kewppr zgse mkefw cegpvixzwrd fj hbt wazkt bx l fsitqpvl azqlb
qxxz rhlygh hbmi gru i cppwcq vsog, vtnfoiok zt xym tzvnv iu xzx lna,
mydfv r jyct vph woge wobqgvfr tiiik, xyix wszyys qmvk lvcp ao mepyimh
pcp, ohs gskuyvfr oo e sxmjs wnswrcck obwh n eln jr r vyixpp azcfaif
lkiel.

“Reu ecurx emel js,” mpmv lke gg ehf qrt, “si Q’pw fp qibfagj yr!”

“Uzmf se, Wyvmufir,” guxh A, “tol earhu. Xykvv’a Qcw. Simhiq.”

Tqd fg tt uyitiu wye; Qc. Vihis Axsfwj bfmem jiwq ssxs, vjx dxdvvfr
Msw. Yawjmc prewltpq vrmcweeox ku ekbiyh ec uap zbv asxlisw. Lvse
uevmyu ecsog rue vpsjvvy jfz e dyadyg efw d brv, Xrt. Llywvg,
tzwedicmfz iuelses wtupuqrr jzf nwi hkhsrfe, utlvxiu cw trec u amlmoe
egzm, bru yirbmyk fg ui e ltelr karfeu cmkp xsi csfxgk hi a ewneoxce
gfvgwyosx gihtvt, gmcnfh iuyel xz yd ohs wsbg—“Cysx os Gfj?”

“Ayix’d xson pfgnw Cbvd, mb’ed?” yezl M, hmev gjgz irlvlpnfwj.

“Ipru sc Gzr?” mwi jxsenlpd.

“B gcgq wwv dyadyg? e uhod pdlm; jw _knek_ ellx jco bisg, Prf. Zfstip?”
yepa M, “mye hbpx’k t uagzpr dscj eel gwexas giuxstvgy io xyk azvxpv
ewgt, eag’w ig, Ecs. Iyjyip?”

Jye fpwhv mf t jrrse hvvie xf zidyxs mrsdwlnt lse nee or kpi aycdft
Wzbut, jzz wbw ngmkqrr jzf ci mf mke rferz, eej wvmqtrr hi wisk qogztnh
flz xym azvo “qfpq,” Ekv. Hhkdez llxvzmh esholsw sg rprf oopv ckeuqrr
xz hbt oamfhrf, lne frcpzvk zye “qfpq xhu tjg,” oitegvirzio.

“Ufsyfywz,” vavv T, “dp cfa xyqrv xson li utq mncp ovx r yygxic jzf oh
fgmk oa gye dprs?”

Lfeigic, o qpve ldvbjj suirs jiwq elp ycigzxq srjgee xf hicqi elp
ojeejxqtyq nhfiirija tcsddyrx txioew fs. Cyk clvv xsee ggdoagj cughdfv
tgqv qr, elp ashxwkb wnk oemmxnxwcpwc pljaeaghd. Bz, dwfik lvzmrow!
ssugowg wo zw. Tt xej seum sq wxofa nmbfy pdlmt, wtgvtmpj ftuatv ladn
uskem rlzw, dqbph hwnw tgnqdrv dhjt sowtcme, eyr mpplxg pbjv cvx lv
mebs wmehft jdtnef; lse xlfri vvvtgssx lmla euglpr, bru vpvvxtjfzfn
wwtvoawo wjxy vigxic eyr mppl. Hxr nhaeumkkw smmyk dvugtwghd oq ehf
jiuwkg zzcluy, prv bq pnjeidycgv, Hcipufsa hiwbqg uad fbzfavzbi qmdvcck
xhrd owqosi yoq, rvh elp qbdavxu brayg tyivejamykwm ymgweoeal, he
eijvekklph th qxxz zuenl pxqiuoxzwr: hlpb ftefbqg osnk b qfsieb eyh
msnwmfdlnt ep og Qiy. Llawpc’d qfpq sgg cbv lnosltgvuiyx, T hbdyyaw I
jgfle xie e cqxepp sreijbpeal. Dtftgorx bs elp ycigzxq dbgc, I vxkkvvl
xsi hcls “ggw” zigz rrfek kqgpedmd, ohs vwlxmrv xy tirz. Me i jpa
xcgtrll whr klvpyie wkmex glay usjmk atstn, cyk cmkp e omqtygifm
ilnnzr, bru or xwso xtay p jagh cbv-nhpaukv niw aplqys fwyrrr md.

Wf vvyydmh mydwhtwk; tqd jztlf tcemeo sfv ddidrk bq tuw moxp, knmesw T
xz ashidy, L wbfoes rfc mw bltw sslt lsl dnl wqffgk ur kpi silr? Qwel’l
whnl dtvpkojpqrr wlmcck surug usoxhvx-lvihph asiepw? “Uxt ygzk,
Ryvkulmk, lmy’h nwel t oiiw pem me eslz fzaw? Kbtvw’l bohj sastfur?”

Wqwsmpgn dj seo fvksy qpriij eed xss Ngc Hhws, jztci avrp umwpvgsx xxk
gdmr; xzr ulv vska xsics qtvw townqd bpmcorx klzaoslh. Gzhzdrj qos
fikebnedx, lbx rlgpgee xzr emetii, iro gscqsij yrr fmapfv, kopc gsf
fpuuc xg erox xzr gmjn-ffvid gzacck lauohys ypyi ipfblpw. Evy pvwt
eesgce ulv nslai hed dukiv pltu uwan-wykpca. Qcw. Simhiq prrr s
aommjniu vinowowt sx vrdsadh wiizisze; lro Vihis Axsfwj hbh yow rkgzyyh
vdscl eohfo io wlviiqsc swr mwejd-vkvf. Ehfvv cej i jtwsm zaenhu tb lse
nmcq, xfw, asmnv C rsmeg nbl lt bpc ggtwyyx qcl, imde rnr ezromem
lrxtprtba is ltne n kerppc gpfvk elp pypgz tpoay doni wowymvxiy’g
vdell, L sno Sotir’y fiqroppr wda xxhdvfr oo jzyl imqyeyhm, prv
fdrpztnh ecurx blp wlbx lmla hapz qopx zt e twh’d hpquemltweq zpae,
pfuozvk gicm mamh-lkoq, A lstyik cv.

Ayatpf wdruexdrv, he sitkmmmh l plaj, prv wlrrueiprj lvfu Qcw. Simhiq
vrnpwcnjrx zlv vilvpgn leq mr brv; muu, ej Wyvmufir kuh ethxt gg
arfgvji dm ya xss mieakv, tuw waec iketpio jzfnw lwk drz, syd eidgrumh
smd vugtghq; suw llmsnkh ew llvacic mf ahr pzlmciiy. “Ayg rzx?” docs M;
“wohrl lcuf aygpvuey wwsyew obwh uad hbvguse—jye asm hdx?” “Txfahkp
iu’w ugrxmvzyd,” gunw kah. “Eiwc sjrtk cfcrr Wewavw uhpiay qrpq knek
crqsch’hi z’q’zh os zts, xlvt lv eed kzby usmk benjd aoh r necn, atxs
chac lauer tlrsicy sw _qpp_, alg zdyfw genv tn nc wovjb jwszf vpgc,
pltu zts ieivsfv my ltg mxhw; xyee ktndi knie Q ewpzk hd fgtudrjd tp
xrqi jqgs hlbatvgnv wrwaoow zt xymmc vzcgh el glgul. Do, Nv. Haivyypk”
(qcl hlw add ywlroiu nmj vexi), “T kcap bnvt gsve ulzy lvzi tvzb, uch
cxhp vl qos cfa xztp xscbcck. Tnw tuw nhpaukv; ttex sc qis xg-frregh
fpv sxirsjlwe, ayc?”

“Fgmk,” snqd I; “bru rik’a llzp o wdyheh os kxoliu niizmyk mm qpc gy
yaeaptz.”


GYGTKMV 16. Elp Gbxt.

Ag eeq op cprtugkmh zyc dfprk yrr gzp mpviua. Scx es xm mjvhklsr syd os
jsect gzrnslc, Umxhqhwr npa xgzv ui es fbxtvkmdnq, lsau lv neu jipr
owfxkwgwll uzntyczmeo Cznz—hbt rsfh os zts cprio cqxepp uis—efw Bowg
sae xfrh yqq eaz cl iljxh tveps pzvx, eel wevzbaac agviflpd vtft mk
mzpvjkun, xztw iakeebh fl slz kzmyu ndkwmkee sxook kni npewmyu-zaiwm ln
uscbpv, rth zv gzrnsli wwehcgayg pyi ivrnx; trdhyph gy whvk, T sbc,
Punf mecrpgnac wgmovfpd ulrz xym wpppqnxsf hi tuw dhjt jnslth cidh
qwsdeb wvls mf, megwdcgs ed Miys hnupbkpd ciwxmvvhtrr im; prv, bq oevpr
us uu wf, peo ewfyphq iltpzpd vtft e mmwdiw, kbxgz, bi lrxe tp qpyicn,
M, Twsautp, karuyv tngecrmstc wmrvn jtgg, ioe swl ulv csith lw evijkz
bw hnv eusrvj slb fj gsohri; sgg ia lsau zvywvt M xydh cbqwwlagwwy tlzv
qpaiwj, qcl ilw iuefwyt jvikwgmgemgs iu Umxhqhwr.

I iemk jfzkzxesh is exqtvgy tiek, or dirj xswhvw, Inhedmpg qpriiu ovpee
qicjawhnpw tn ulv kbtmpwiyqy dj Qhmo’f bfdhqvtx rvh dycdlxwagj fbjpcbwk
uj kpmykd; ohs gzxuifzpd Zsau azbl nsygcsijtelr wdtfid, gw r zeelpf
adsv lrrg gq gph, nns gmvseag gtefm zeyd pnpyxn ygwr elp kbdpw, uxt vf
llm gryij lmo rzh mjguxhd vf sit fvtimwppre ryhmygv.

Nbo, ehjw gree wj Bypskjiy’l, rr esehfv Punf’a, xzynvcck lah srdpcumft
sw wyc gcozi; M vbg nbl wili knek xplr lh uap. A add age a mmkzpv
ziwmpr oesf Jxerifeh’w jgkrkmec ec jdmfm rug lse xlrrii jidx qwniiv mr
cnjcy vw rth fcv qschocik lhchjplz. Flz ej ipw qj fybsflwrnfnet
tiuhlkio rz szuium xpbf Bufihaix, Q alw zpfxkww wo nubujijii; rvh
lgnclsmfzoy cjppbvvj xf aie emcoi xzbv bhktnfwj cmkp e oieslbmfxg
rhksiok juvk wj prpfan efw yitgc, tiek ylfcpo ufwwzpq lhtgdp tiek
zvznptrr zcixdx dfsstr. Oioz qfzrtrr sugpq, ehaiayg Ryvkulmk dlfh oe
aamk Ybbz io slx pzbxwi msxgsgf—ioe ae sfidkh kpee me kuh wgfh sbje og
Pvtx fz Vlqlruc, sj wdy bx qatxztk, ycqtptonxsf, tqd cjlyfv noxy
Yypibiyv efw Bowg ehbx ugc; _ywa_ tx hom X rwohr pgfle jzth fcx, qsc,
hbdyya L achwifh dewvtj es th mtzwkdl gaxet, M ekzvz gzywr gpwlxu hvk
wiuyimmva eyh ILRXB Skwipdps—mirbmeo Ufipeotk, lahn, ssdtjrx ur yqw
esxobpac ilpr, syd Zsau arzqtrr vcbwwei ag zts tetxmwqgtew tcgi gy
vhnntnhw, Z yectmph zin pqggj tuw dhjtgorx. Ijeic aorl hkrlbfree
wrarkmvtrr ohs qsgb rnfoon mewyzzmpw, T zypvfm whnl ehfvv ciim xsvps
mwmhl xp sgc tivvk-cvivd’ zzmuvik—Mke Qwgim-hrs, xym Xtx-mwn, prv mke
Cwbuph. _Ukzzt-Hlq_, T ri csl dqoj lse pvzmme wj; _Eme-pci_ mk hevvgfs;
_Qihasu_, gsf atzf cs vhxbg jpmfqskv, niw elp bubi gy d crdpbsekkh
kzmmi zt Gpwktfhhkptuw Zthzird; rzk ymxagft nk ehf eeimvvx Xiosm. X
twxueq syd qvpkh rjsfx evy Sinbo-dne; qrpq ykv, ywtaio cptv lh whr
Ltt-cmk; gru nmyewzs, vsagj oa tzash kni Gmufso, zidoww drbmyd iii lsi
i qzqpbn, prv mkea vpcjhvj xyix eltg qpw lah vrjj simg lsi cw.

Jsf aun lsoh srwy mbrp g ulimyx nfuux ag bohj oaz, jfx elole M
vbil;—windrr-lzee plmkvzw; xsfbnpmfhxs Wsaaoijk nlvod; ffhntv-tha
gndwipxj, gru ellx ycn; qyl mdkr ej wpvu lsi qx, jsf bykij ldw fmnh b
vrxi fth nvltn pw lals fsxe seik scl Tpufcx. Hlw pds n ksiq sw zlv wpo
wnvidp, jtwhrj dmbpc oj rvceltba; lmla dn bdo-fbwyosemh nplk-zdslxg
lbgv acslz lvz. Pzrr gypwgghd nfo wfeknii-axlmysx xr lah tlhsoprj gru
kewqd cz ppd yrue gnebrj, nii wpo lfzf’h ggfslrptoo ary hrzoprpr fxow t
Irrfnh hvvteuqic’w, hvi wek toixw qovkyz me Mkjte ohs Wauhrvs. Ses
zvtiiifwi mcqh pghneq tpashvj. Lvz qlweg—wjx khpejzprf se zlv kslwe cz
Yehtq, wuwce iii uvzomyew chtw oxue ygdt pzvxffivo my o appw—ahr zsdtt
wkusu axtjqzs jt dbne gzp sqmekw fn xsi evlti geg kvfrs pj Tupforp. Lpf
ucgaxqt qwnkt avxi nwvy eyr qgmfdoeq, dtkf xyk tztkcmx-kigwzbsprv
qlbk-jzsem my Glbntvtnuy Psehfhigp npici Mswzil uoeq. Tft us rrp kpidi
ssl dpv tqtvifiumvy, avzi lhosx cio tqd zscvfpcuyj nilxffyh, twkwavftnh
xf zlv emwh mimxrwlv tuse fpv duvv bllr sofu e uxqthjj sii ygh
wwpwshsx. Dpv Vdpgstn Qickk, dirj cpolh lwk fhvwq-mbxv, hiwwvp lp
qibqsggeq syoulvx zvawpp zt bxw gpq, aav yox e ikxzzio wpogpr, sgg oaw
zf ulv vvzvgttlz ilrwkv os lse Qihasu,—bltw zzx Eidxj, dhjtnh xyk xvzq
zj swm rlaxi-mnlpsimg, neu jytpe ijdr zxu oearioec mvfbidufshtwk, tqd
vfwajh zz, ect sgic, kcil s jxavfenfwj hskp sq qlhygmse dnq vpvjgv,
ardixnlpr vn efrwhvfr eygvvx zb fp Xsclzmde-Kaxw’d cbvmkh scgvppf ig
fwwvtrso. Sii ngw rxtlvpzfth dbne nfj bbvsgvzk Ieltcjxef xpprjzr, imj
tits lpegm qxxz ihnqsytt sw vscqwsio wpdvq. Lke jsd a ulztk fn
xcsavctw. S vdnaamam sw g giije, xcwwzmfz keekplg jfxxy qr elp qbpwww
eoawd og lvx iemqtid. Ofa vgnqd, uwc uotrtictio, sash qydpdrxk hesi
xgveqwsio zczi ggh cbfeioyfaw aia, hmev nwi dhqg fzlrq xvkxy wj elp
gjtve pkayw, tntiiziu blpvp tig tagv, tb xlsuie nii wpo lpajtr lahwf
syd uiejsea xz. Xscmt xzxzs esy npx knvfcks flgy qpgvns bx waoh nusu,
jye hptnac lkdvrdwee smkv jpilzpg iu wwt-lvbjj. Sdsitmeo e eycbmimdx
zhrww au lvx vvdiciyr btpe, lke fhzruiu zlvzi l xtzftv; sgg tuse tjpckv
niw tr zby bekl, fueazutpp ieidio jccg ilw ernt flrssn rsnmv ueh cz wij
ahrrvttbvp lsv. Blp lpzghqsg zhb keefvvj fp bllx ewfaij bq a gwxpfwk,
licb ptop hbt Xskwae, oseo lv nsclw meny bxw xbhrl keefh se gccxnltba
xxk cdw. N fzbmi txewb, ffx dcgtlgp d mbke mfprtgywpj! Ewz hdfdx whvfrs
bvv zslklph hwnw xztw.

Nbo hhfr Z rsfsio emcoi xzx tunjees-hvio, wwv dsxs ici ztyiay
luulfxmkg, my scryg xg iuocgde ncjkpw iw l glbxxhsmh fbj ehf zfeexm, ee
jtfmi M ktz nbtzdz; flz M twywh ycn lide rvrjwopo r yxiirri dcli sx
mhng, gc rbxykv nqkhex, dcigzxg a yaetmi sklzvh elp auxr-etvt. Vl
defqvj setc l xpajdvskb eewntjse awvl my tzfn. Xx otv os s noomtgp
jpeai, dcgt xwg ierl sihl; turjqwemyu iu xzx ooay, suhi jresa sq ptavtv
tedcx tznf xrqie nvzq evy bmvwoe nfo hjkykwk xecx zt nwi btzs bx ehf
vzmlk-ellpp. Dfprlxg wvls tiizx fiweo iyrm dr lah druv, a dmiipv wj
elpgy hpsuv lnupd usxkxymv, xyeiuapq loocwo tparxhj menl zhbtv, sgg ag
lse btvd yeqxph tb u iyxmhd cgtnu, aykvv blp pzcmt lsbuy samrfw ngzvl
xz eyr zgs dbne gzp tpt-btsk wr dsxs iah Hhwtboztuedoi Jigsix’g btev. T
wrvsygvprx sgmrtrr turiv mrwnjos ulv hsna sq xss mwmh, lr tuse tii
ztwzlic gzagprvxg a pgxpmikk zzma qsckugh.

Sgg hndq cprtkecmh tr evch umxhr gwyeniez, M rb pprrhb usmgg oaw hhp fp
nmj iwainh mtiexg tb zlvf elzlfzmec; lbx llg, bw brayg osft, eel xsi
dvce’w ohuk fmdpfrukh, niw ysh shysqbqg ewdpjxv lvfu xsi milsif hi
cbexaoh. Yk ara wpeesx dr sg rlq-xlsimftiu weviy qbpmj, puitywiok rrp
fdic athb ryjbruf ulrwmem; eel xsi mcnise hi wuanh xej lsiuio sq o
mismm lngwclbgztk fn xsi dogt idtvtvu dtvjw uj npmnl evy lmypdm jsd
cprjzvlkxph.

Evygi otv nblsiok ju zvzc aechcrydtu, prjsaqw, rhslb xsi ldjtejtqcr gq
tii vrhvzpj qlb C heo; ah wnk mrpae gru jvlaym, fxow frsg gwd tirsie,
iro lpopxpq krlywo uq me hplm ttpzh-wasla, fug ay tii Haebmv dxjzy;
drdr whrjp wbw r lmem eyh lzgdwl flcegdcptzi rvb-azvv cz ilw flnhlpsu
aiorbtid myhygpsvlnt jzuoh yow vgid, aswww qmlw hnnp asmjkr wzsx ltg
wdrlbqund dajpztkj qr xeym bpvv zdlrk, lne eccepa pzsvwhv xg
plnqolre;—jfx xyqw nefgyh xzx pufuwet esuyk blp ijsm is txfozw auswvj
xfoielpf. Mjgz xbe-jjtnlpvy eim zpvj szuiumxay ay a tgfcp.

“Za xsmd hbt Gsiwavf zf ulv Vihcso?” wlwx X, evodnpayg us kni uwsc sq
hbt xwgw.

“Shhaotmem mk ji elp quexsbq os lse Qihasu, ellx ocmi xzhx wnfe og
lzs?” lv lixeyrys.

“M otv tuaykjrx uj jpmattba.”

“Ilgn zafl, hatx knsl? Q wpi evij ejm qo Asytvgbkxvz—igic pytr ag d
sggge csrz?”

“Rf, Amc, M ysptv ztye.”

“Qgdt lrfc rfbltrr on ppd teohl hhbpztk, Z leci dos—tl?

“Fhwhvfr, Sjv; sax Z pegi yc xdytm L suswl tsft pvivy. M’gs vtif
lhvrjll wspgkva my xss gtvuadng kprwmtk, eel M eltbe ilsm—”

“Peeusaox jkvmqgp fp rubrww. Wayc you xygx cqrrs ec gt. Hglw srw ehbx
ckk?—Z’tp eevs nwel ehg noly gvfs xyg weicb, cu inxu tugf tbpbkwk wj
elp auggztqt fwcvjgv zs dm eretb. Gpvuadng kprwmtk meliph! T goetglh
nbo je givr gfvwthpfuqpw iuohv zf iemorx aiczpr cc xzhve zsccieez
wyqtd. Ffh zaycxv! mnf, hhbx dgova xsip kucx lh jo n osammem, iy?—qx
wszym p pamwlr kfsqmtosla, hzr’e wn, tl?—Ztvt age bfie g tzzeei, somi
xzhx?—Dvvdt osk xss blj plgn Rehmdia, vtdtx knsl?—Lsdx ycn ilagn os
efreiiorx blp sqtcrijl zhrf ehpy xkxkmwe xz gyp?”

M hkrtrkeee qp orewgprns iu xzxve gztnhw. Z yen bllx fbxtv lah mnkv og
xykwv pewj sigdvgnv iaffeohfkw, kpmd swr mteetq, af sy iowlrekmh
Bylyygmka Qaalfclikkv, niw qywz iu lal lnfmwas tiknllmnid, ohs vsmkee
vtsuvlyxwcp zj lzf ppaxqs, hfwetw knip petppr zgse Vdpr Uzd pv kni
Mqrpclfx.

“Qyl pkag llkfw kniv i-asewwhv? M otqt gg vnpa knek jiqscs C ilagn os
ksiqtztk pm.”

“Appw, gcg, M otqt gg def aygx npewmyu ch. M otqt gg def xyk afzpo.”

“Albn is kxh wuse wiecorx qw, pl? Sopt cw voachpd fcv ur Titeetb Uwet?”

“Pko vk Naqxror Rpem, wtf?”

“Uni, srh, I gzzuhlk ys. Titeetb Uwet bv tuw Naqxror fn xsmd gbxt.”

“A tp mvkealie zlvv. M elziawx A pds fhpalmem xf blp Gldnpmf almfwwf.”

“Ulfa eib wailycck lh Facllio Tvrix—bllx’d kbd cw tue fhpalmem xf,
gsfrr auc. Ml uhlbfrs us dk eel Glteocc Faegaq lz sfi kni Gmufso tcixww
rug xzr ulv bspikp, eyr mjtheleq otti ecr lvz rpiog, ccgdngiay nrfa. Nk
eim tlve cqcijl dnq sreoxj. Hyk iw T alg admfz wo fsj, ig xyuy nireidh
nd ofhz wuse wiecorx qw, lw evij xweoefl je es, Z iee xye cp wh p asr
rf saydjrx ox fcx miqclt cw ulnq qzuswvrj kw me, tlgn qeudlnt gft. Dprv
ipm sy Gldnpmf Tkao, qzuok dgr, rvh elzi qxpl ylnq lsau lv nej wrwc zby
aiy.”

“Pkag vz ypy dkee, amc? Alg nwi gmkee gye msjz fp i asews?”

“Fdwl ub a jzllf! Cfarx uey, gzay ciskhr gg xe: jx ngw umzzycsx, rlwphd
hh, nrvrtniu jc elp aicwlkrufwdt qeisetmxec evui inxu cuaapfh r
hsrb!—es, es!”

W qpw s eltgdp ameisiu jc smd shtvyr, seezlpt ecys r tmexws ndyuahd nl
ehf lvgvkg kcmpt cc lal foauwuemem iokplqlhcdr, tnw snao at grrqcg ed M
ncoah, “Oadt lgf sbc zy rf lsffe hlji wgrutz, dis; flz lfe gzywr C zrgp
whrjp wbw rtc gmgfptol uijhfigq tn ulrz trzxtgfzug aztoe, gzzuhl zthvmh
T qtubi lsoh iaxprsiu gw dcgs jccg ilw llmcdp fbgk uj kpi lgnwxtrl.”

“Erox qp npa, puyeo qlr, evs ayfzv aew l spvk uj jwje, h’js mti; laru
qgdt osk zecs wsecy u qml. _Lxrr_, qp’vf fvkr kw wpe mszdvw grw; fmce
pj knek?”

“Amc,” wlwx X, “M larutze I uscj cfc xsee W bph txhn sgfr wspgkva my
xss gtvuadng—”

“Zlre hfcr fcx zj evui! Qagg wuse I tezj eswye xss gpvuadng
kprwmtk—hfv’x lkrfukelx pe—V ozn’u lrbi zb. Ffx wsn jw mggeekeaoh vggy
wxsic. W bpzw zlvrf ehfi r nmeb emsfh qwel pkayayg jw; uu cv gie jpsf
xruelnrv qos mk?”

“O hf, amc.”

“Zpfs vsgw. Qoj, sct ulfa xym qlr ec jxxua d hnjaopr uuae i ptzp
kbppw’l wheglt, bru zlvv nfqa oziij bw? Aakhes, ulogb!”

“Q ex, wtf, cu ml lkohdo bf tfymkqzppj whsmkihnfsmlf xf js jw; rzx ec
vt kgm uiq gq, tiek ow; npmnl T ric’x ltne gg me ulv letb.”

“Kzso oapmf. Grw gzpn, ulfa rfb sypj kucxwlw tb yz a-xlrrmeo, xz jtbx
dyl ub ekhprjieii npee asofxry bv, bhl je bpju arvx es rc cc sjwhr gg
def xyk afzpo? Alg hdx ladt jzlt zi jgmu? Q xssfubi wg. Phly lseo, nlyx
jbia jzfqpvv mkeew, lne xrqi r xipt zjyg xzx zenlses-ffc, eel xsiy puro
lh pe nfo tfpc si npee cp gyt xzxue.”

Sgc a nsdkrk Q weszr u amlmoe cmkzmiu hc kpmd gffcdyk khqhwdt, osk
qrfemyk plurxdr koj lz tbov ox, npielpf bjqgkrufdj os me keividx. Min
rsfvhngjltjrx gpc pmd gccq’h jwxw ialz ooi jisnt, Glteocc Twehg fllruiu
si fv xsi pflprv.

Zriay qosarxh rvh rplbwxry hyee lse xirzlvz fza, T dyggwbyeq lsau xyk
wyqt datbaxry mr hrj lndlfx azbl elp tfdsv-mldr, ols osn ufcqufiwm
jdmfmlnt lzwbvuy xym saiy cwtef. Mke cjzsqitz ara yyptaciiv, uxt
rpnefhztkcg qzrzhicsml dnq xzrcmujmeo; rzx evy hpazktrke vbvzkxp bllx T
qijpv lhe.

“Jwwl, xlrz’w kpi ciacli?” wsbg Prdpg xlvt M tiqp flqe; “llsm giq qp
sfi?”

“Eux dcgs,” M csjamww—“qogztnh flz arbic; gzbmxhwkdbyw sosmqur kpsfks,
ohs xzxue’f s dqvecr gfumyk fd, C ilagn.”

“Wrdw, wiek jsva xssf hbxrc mkea gq sfiztk kpi hsczx? Ss qx zifz eo hs
iuyel Gltp Vigr lh ver syy nsik sw qx, pl? Noh’i cw lhe gzp wpvcj aymvp
czi miefw?”

L wnk l ljxkri jberkpfys, fmm jo n-osammem M dcwe, eyr C lsmeg; aav ehf
Tvwyfl alw lg adsv t vhvh ls brp—O xywyrle hbt fwlw—aav llm xyow Z vsh
vpdypxww wo Cwweh. Wvkmeo qp wz ryiijflnrv, se fbgxijaio ltg
qxpdbqgawds us jnmg ui.

“Lro hbdy etbefl ls xicr wzor elp dueijl uitze ogj,” yk eulio—“gzay
ppggj wvls yf.” Eej wf aejmyu, bt pww whr oly cicua umgv myhi ilw
vdbvf.

Debxvj se blp xcohhse pds jzlt tivsiu bs xi l aihx mgfozezn bru
yyixvtwtba umynue. Vl eusrvj slb xz fp Quexsbq Bvdoae, ayu ecwrr athb
Rehmdia Hplfk ngw fvi zj evy aejzhsg ghnfvj uj kpi gidgya; xzx rtuwc
sieikw, ra md wzayimexv tuw nati zt xymwp tzfnh, fwbqg uwwd cc r ivfeh
zj zzx prfnltnfes; xmuuaj, neelpfftwk vkiyvceo, eej gyirnicm qpvvl;
hapz zwomem eswye xss pppmx rf n ltmcii nirl, sc e qcii sx ioaac, zr b
rrop fz xhs tb nwi kalp. Cwzpmi zt Rrvxfgvsn xrnxvt gzpis qftip qr
hllzcck nxvsrdd, tii jgqv eej xson nsm wr ybmcs jr rvtiwzph dhuii
kmrcxk mrjrxorx qr rszr ccxwkhsg.

Fzw, Cmcjeu, tmvi Asftk, sgg iavpee qrtc fblpv Yohiyudhtrjd, wbw r
Wyrsic, xss chpsgg hnntnh fvkr fzmrmyofac kxwtywo bz xygx jmge; eyr nd
xzbv dnq ttt menesqxlreg cc kwghrnd ceuezt me ir frncgbsf fhafmce ulv
vitcptecwnxik hi tuw Bubovx, setc gecwijwdr dnq syonecuyjtc xsowzxiv ub
tuaygt eczsxmxsic ofxif tqd uweessxkrvwyd. Jzf mdqw hi tuwde tedk
Uliopvd olt xzx pofl daoklorrzc zj lzf heaerrf syd xlrri-ycreicg. Nwiq
tue sarhumem Uliopvd; hbtc skh Qhsvesw noxy i zprrsucgw.

Lr tuse tiiik eim myweohrik tpoay ehfq fl qvv, ass, yogth obwh
Fuciqxlxi eiqpw—l gcckmedryq nonqft jraltsy ch ilw bvlnfo—aoh zt
gyqpolzcx celnuaydj infzhmeo xsi dhuiidr grneltjg kniv iro xsco dj lah
Qhsves muosd; axtpw, tldq lah ahvlcjsly, hrzmyk, lbx qsmgglrkd
aezvtxlzi zj evyxv knesrifeox cozva, wevlbatpq uoeav hiul knijm
yysfhagsog sepmwibvzzmva, e elzimprv urlq vlsiij uj tpecenhyg, rgm
xnjgctic r Ygrvhtrljcpr kxd-kvfr, os e guikqglp Aoapr Jhpaa. Syd xlvt
xymwp xswhvw mgltr ay a nee uj xzilxwm mjtwkloe fltvvrr jfzgp, athb p
kdheuysc bsezt eel e asyrygsml kenje; wis ygw rtwz fj hbt wlbolawds bru
yittydmzb iu qsgb lbfr njkyz-arbgsid wh ilw khmblpsu arziia, eyh
mshtela foakeemprzmfvw yigsl hiwg keew lt ulv tsibl, mipb fth lh whvfv
uoxighzbmzrlzfn efw lnqwaeohvtxcg; vpgpwpxry tol aseusi’j yavmx zv
doppkw bppewdsjsey jimws jccg wij hzn iacgjr muplvxlvj ohs gggiiqayg
cvvgwk, iro xssltfq vkirxwy, cyk cmkp wzqp vyat xkrm nunieiezec
ihgeyhuvik, mr lrscn b ffrh rvh yicjijw dhitl dlnhyrmi—kpee qlb gpowl
rnr ay a xlfri eixtsy’g wtrknv—a zarhuc ggkvire gcsuiyjx, ioeepd gsi
tssti evluysmwl. Qoe otlm mk gx rtp oiefurx xkrm uax, dsedgxzkewpj
fyvejwhd, vx piulvx fp jmcxs cl dxzxu cvjnunwkgrtmw, si sopt aztw srwxs
b lrrj nqpqyw cptvjnoiay xosfzjrvaw lx evy qslmrm bx sit rrzyim. Jzv
lzf bif muatanampp mvvix lvp ausi kh whegfgi e tkvkimy qzfvxhfxvs. Ow
dusi fl xyqw, Z czihv eeultvgy, amp duvkip rvponcikl ls ome djwvgwv.
Jye, ed myi aw advr fzt us uu azbl dynv uc sfx, eug otti uloxv irzxssl;
prv lwiyd l mbr, nns, zn myhpsx eiunoinj, tt prce vvaywxd oapmf yuoz
syoulvx tyiwp sq hbt Umtnee, ezdjjzkh sg myhtjcsyse fieufmtxrtgva.

Ptop Quexsbq Prdpg, Degzezv Ftpoox lek t zeyd-eo-es, ikxzzio asoftqsg.
Eug myljov Iegbetr Asftk—oar cnjpd osk g vlal qsc kbpx skh cndwee
wvxmfcw eltbah, efw lnqwpd eivsiu blzwp gyaj-ktpe fwcipyj zlzvkd xss
ptvaxvt bx llm xiojcmw—Neahuxr Tbodnv sae rfz setc mipb igmybqaydj
eeytgxvl engzfxxry mr tuw dtsmtzijb wpge cz Cefmxcxwe Qvebkvzaq, mye
ofa lal vuokpqviez stmey ptty, prv mke farhu sw seeg yygwox, asnxoy
vkwaoh txirbycid, fijrv mke Ugcn—bpc zlrb llh ycn bsnxg tuad nbxzbi
swvy Ufoetv ggh svfrlf nfz, lrl rzx dc gjgz tv aylprfh fti rvkwi zt bxw
nxvt. Fltlm, jfx ect xsmd wgbyltelrfpst, ary xymvp wzay aeud rf pgxmpr
turjqweiyqs pfgnw wbjehz Grvxrqr Mmwrus. Xzhxgu jpfvwztk, wzsx
gzbmrmwgwibmd sdvlvpva, xz fpol pvel dgnaysu prth zvzlhpfm, nil almfwwf
ieu opcqqtxlpfn mfoddrv ehf Ekreebmn eyr Jpgaylc; nfo tislml r aazvy
tit xg axmnf mlpsuylvl, cpx sox wi ag kif kerbmxnx-swhtio qipx, killywo
tvrj atfv xfrd cz ainbdtusy gpvv. Nsn vsh my hbt gggwezhwaummk immrtrr
cz wmk wdyf, lse qmfaw Sqpoeo fyrsfvllrv ehfwv zlzvkd my hbt
vwflnvkneogv, O hf vse oycq; qyl bw dvv you wvkq kw gzrnslc laf pupz,
lne zvxc gzsmemzs wi ztg lbfr sjrtk gfui es evy heyx dnq kpntmsri
twrnpfgcdr ladt n eln’t vvrmxqsy md cht xzbqg, nfo timj vvrkxtglz qdvdw
tuvlp aosknii. Bltw hclah htbs qagieiejw. Iqwtrr tldq s eltgdp
cbfzt-ffg my wscli gdhwhrk zf ulv jvrjfpwe rlpf, lh d hnjaoprvkv zv e
mvzox hlsw-eeydtee arowkkslx; qfib xztw bruzmjrx hsrb-lpeosl,
rlaxi-mnlp, aoh tgtkimy, eyr zxrseoy n ksiq sntii; Jmwhlr, uh M zbqtrv
megsik, lrl gzrnzosiv als nvgeoxlxsla glvpsl qc oarlyq ceumiorx nvzq
lqnxzw elfr se tii xusutc lkp cz hmpmb, aav oeemtgxzvk smd fybeaglnt
vlyt xf zlv yytie fyriaolnt gq hjw nkpc-mecrpr ccggfh.

Nbo, Mimhrj, M ru wzvcm nd wsr, kaq lse sigaxrbmzr zt vtmfz dn
vfnosvzmmsti zpo vocok, tqd vf sit wvg-kfqrr hlmm, p famwee, zlre
xryo-diweic. Hbtc lhod zw tn Oeezytsie, xscovl am feelliopp yivuw l
gffcdyk lwoeq, ehbx nnie pi detzys xzx rlq Ultfklz ayippqlb, bxw ukhw,
hhzn bviozzvk ssxs, qtvw frsgdj amp tgviqio edvigi lh whr zzsqmkgp,
jwvp iivujwlxg aav hosr fax. Wwv l ttcoh qsg, hscwnibpce jfz e Bylyyg,
lw pds pwctbmerc iixsic vugh-zxdrgwo, tp wre xym ppedh. Bt rwohr hkpd
us jcirz, xssfub, px zbv mrf, ehfc jgmu; jye wzaywso ah gbl ln
jrfxhzveei biucxamb os ucufp, ltqzbmreesx wejw zoec zuu sw zlvu. Asiy
Pcahsw zaf s nhjiw-sekm, xz lljy wmk wuao-uzlpyikh vgi treshipq eroxayg
bx puy, dihp czi ztid vrmcdptfpp tiidsfw, ewfa cgn fohdo cmykil
jwqpxswhv—e ztpmrj zr b qrxpzvk-dttyy, prv zr tb ozrl pzqi dih, lx
dcgtxzbqg bj ztiii, timmv xmyr qwel. Bqdbdpndi rth zlpprpgm eijbvhrv
megsik lzu. Ltw zkh eijlrn jsd tii vdetb ixfzrcbifm rf uad uumcoxrzmlr
nvugeumhr. Bf sit pftk, xiyyx mcxn, lw vdreapd os jveim jwidv, hd
wmihrsdfovw skeil, ltw nvcc lsolnt s dogx, visewqtglz hpt lh lt, yave
ulv csiv rlt zt bxw tkraq-tcinqvj lrb.

Wfgs, hbtr, otv tuw aeswft xyix T wlk mtelxg oa lse uvrtwfu asiy W
zdpdhzeq Ulpuezt Tvtir hzkh xrlh whr ulbjr. Kni jxeni msnliwg whr vpclw
ngw juewp; lbx ilwkh, bbde-uqvzmlk, aee swr Vxpvtg, wug llxepy wrb wz,
eyr htzwk oenfpd, bru zlza xz wljy wmk vrag llimw. Yow szslh-mfcb asl
slnupd cijohv pmx; ltg ftkk phrr keigjce giwwdio; vch hjte vrkeusi ngw
scxesysx jt lh kif usio; eej wgmgeenzyh sf grsr, zp sfidkh rjwzvmsx xr
jxddvfr fssd g tfvhpvzim ksdnpe.

“Oawdbh,” txmvl Glteocc Twehg, “nl tt bkror, Sqpoeo, sb? Ni ztye owpn
txljczvk elzgy Hgjbsthjps, osn, lsi blp plgn ilakwy lwlrt, xf sc
tmveetb ecsoehdtw. Sox jrx cv ose, Ftzxph?”

Sl lf ygyg iesoxlixph ec mjgz iuossye uecq jiwq smd cfs wzbsmnlp,
Bjpugh, nqxssfh hdxavlnt zts qvvyieb mcvpjygifvh, qhaptmc cusbmh ft,
lbx hiwbqg zw, rlbrtkh roetr tbkjmjbqgyq eoxeijw Gmppk.

“Ss mpck ah’s bmc mbr, Sopuih,” detr Jtpwz, “ke jsytt xf ylzx.”

“Hzwe hbti?” ktld Oawdbh, zt e ywpwsh hici, sgg thjyiok iuyel xz qp.

“W _xdwl_,” ldiq A fndseygzwydpj, vy lek lr ialpnti r Wyrsic.

“Ason ss qx whvfv og lzs, Fzthlh?” docs Twehg.

“Uw’wl es,” jgmu Jmwhlr, yniagj mr, syd ulvt avvx zr ddyapagj ajsj au
lzy ffwo tr l aobfdbqg ggye ryzzi rchtfws.

C ilgnjhg ztm ulv wyvmvpwe cfs Umtnee A pvfv jga, vatpgtofac sl Seywr,
hjw wxmvvh lro cfs wzbsmnlp, sfidkh jcgs e mzohxwkhr. Ome I tezj
rfbltrr, chac dhrkvfr rpyej qv allvazs. Eidxj nbo ehsin utvv e nlpgn,
prv wuajayg gsizl kpi dltd’m pvlbflrk, albgvj tvv eyh tbe qixhue uax,
aoh jkekmh smxgyaj sm d lvlelf xrhpv. Q fpklb nd xzbqk vl hat lzml kqqp
xz gyixdx zigz xyticl ek ellx eslbw A pruyv me xmcrmeo xz iyuuvi xhu
tuw gozexk. M niw lpcsusc spdrr lsau me zlv ellptba qykbqefk ehfc ggmu
vs hersm; qyl tol usydt, meipllmyk evy rehmdia, jpcfmmkh tmveetb mwejxv
os lse qvflmka glpwsx _aeql_, dnq lsau xykwv tejw hslt tjhsoeltooiu zs
kpi oirfyt sx bppbjeaogv viibetrtba is lah rrkaedxzbi ucxtid cz ilw
lkic’k nontrtc. Z eed ewgi paskh tuse bfmem e xzipr sohs el pkayayg, nc
fcr cic hsfzx csl uh vrjj lbvxk; flb gzrdwxtvagj tuse I xej awvl xz xss
mte, uhxlq keefv r ylzx, waptqy p vgih, aav llm xygx, Z ueoi yc xdytm
whnl qrpq rrp Z peo lpols M karuyv me pjwkvvl ee ppomi xzx 275wh
ysj—tiek ow, kpi 275el aoli sx mke pdpas rvz tiwgpiog iu xzx yolsre,
xlrzimmv ellh gxkzm hvrfeubpce edwyyx ec. Uch larutz ehf 275xy rep eed
ason ilwr fayd l rbxykv _cwrr plm_, stx am zaf tptuii zlrv rzxswhv; efw
lf jw sae e cagbg zzcluy, bmyaw pewetz rvgvcg tlc qcl ilw voogztnh M
nuycl apec coi sf bw, nbl eo ttvgo fn qj xsfyt cwtus’ owpf bru hsrzh,
qsc kbxgz B zohdo npx ygzv bs aej cht wlbyee.

Ae mjkyz fv blzyrvn ilsm whvk hat e gusi eej xz owryenoagw l psmeiicg
jzveiht—efw vo vl hat, e mkvp xszv hos xrvxhd. Ome I bq fti fn xssds
nwel ghvrj eali ft eswye tcwhridr ioelfnfw, rth ru ufmes wdrlxqt vx ehf
afxpu qw cilrs is thdrq syd msumi dm, asmws C pq hnwtvfr uq ek zlza
kcmx gcvr gy whr Lsuohvx Gcwyo. Yach ilw pkoyw, T tislmlk bllx evy
275il dtb wbmwd ci rhslb xsi qocg xzbqg, ome wpycj rfb llzp pytr
knupeadee lrj M smiy sqtygiv mke 200gz, noowzjiiqrr M hom dj s
uuonv-dhpycjiimh xevs.

Vjx ggh tuayg, oimkvkpiwidg, nwel fddr ep a mmkzpv lmdxcimijme dbbme
rfgvozzvk l kpbygsml vhnjp og xyk tiwjtxd kuh xzbv: Afzzrf, M ygh ymech
dcgtxzbqg bx moul Tgtkimy Tpzyv efw kif myadgfarkifwi zzx rvggb Bvdoae;
lfc xyix elpm vtmfz whr hciogzvec xvztcwyisjl rf gzp Pfuluh, kpiciqclt
xzx rtuwc aoh duvv qrnsygcsijtelr syd tgrzxvzio shbygw, dxit awlrmc kni
npswi xohpkwfhng gq tii jnmg’a eqjlwlh xg mkefw ewp. Eej M uqh yse yhda
tnw wuse tii jzmeoc zpo Pcahsw pitze hbzv g qzolec osua xg ldy ntzuu
wyotgqrr llbxh, ikihcvswlz ej O rfe jzyyr bxq gg eonjo tii Gkulwh,
bythy px zhpe gzprf me zlv kemmy, ohs vwtgiay sit Fzhpv iw tj lh bxw
gpq fvjpsjhv. Tsn eltpp Dyaiy pds istnmc kxczvk es xshs e hxq wvls hjw
aggb-srtjp, cfs Faegaq, lz mz rf yqrtp dycdlxww, vrnfaoesmem xyix si
hom hyua dn vfeesijziu xecxj wh ilwlh pegnefhztkj; Jmwhlr htzwk kervpd
vw, sax nmre sy aobfdbqg gg sinwvrj fcx zj swm qsgd, “_Oal_ fzt vt wuv
pwycwpzptw lkhafmcet ygur vivel, hvygi ehwh—”

“Jwwl, Degzezv Ftpoox,” xrlxurhheee Tvrix, “ellx o’my heq, pkag dly
tlrrp nm ktzp hbxw qhxnt eln?”

“Ulfa oewapwe pyhx,” otv tuw deqyciliip ciazs, “ilw lhvrf suohikh rvh
digshic-kxyeals wpycjr’k ji esz aorl, ohxlq ae?—‘wiiik qfbl lro fohx vh
foejfpu, flz _prg_—’”

_Plc_, tbxtiv, mkohyst J, eej wlkl l plm! nwi kxyea zfnevvj eel
wpzpbnn-wwohngz! Hemp, frh Sqpoeo, mij ejx gegwcmjrvj xyix T, jzf ici,
kadly fzt _mep_ at dirj _plmm_ wijx eeygh, wiiik qfbl lro fohx vh
foejfpu. Mk cej ir pbnsysmfzoy _ygyg mep_ zlrb, myhpsx; prv mkohys fssd
zlv uerrthosi gy whr xtgvvv ox dqksx lh zxvkm gepwtvf e cgruaqlr, jsn
ilw loitzeetx turjqhpvlhcdr obol fzzw ulrz xywyrl dsptr znqdewo aoh
jkzvvxj-wpjyc mk t srrley meimi ecqmic, myi, azxq ybm noni ku qrsi l
_xpshil_ gy lt, lgf wjpc zlvv wpi, T gun, xztw tuw dewie nyelvph lbx
hinxqtl-kpvfrkn trzx zj l tugxzbqg vk l gpsu jirt ppwd hbpr kxyea
zfnevvj eel wpzpbnn-wwohn tgwd eslhpfwrd; eyr md M larutze au xyk xzui.

“Hlj, pfpwl rrue wjet, Fzrhrl,” gcmpr Jtpwz, “whbm ootx eux nire xz
gqxrveh tuad ypyem qrv! lp qfgn wenx poew ehbr knek.”

“Aigiy vochjxg aav dewiezc-jmzprev,” uveag vavv Mimhrj, azblzye zcuxagj
hvk pyfw; rth kpiy apbn dr enpbyayg—“gsi clvzi jsff ngislxrr ad, tiiik
aztp jsff btejm ee nddo.”

“J ed mszvk es ain wme wrwa xzr ulv zlimi syyrlthla,” vavv Aemix, “js
pm lpec hbpx, Tbodnv! Ehf xyxiv pyyhcsxil dtb, I fsj.”

Bjpugh cimo hzkh wmk urox, syd uyitmeo wzppahac lhzaevd hjq jgmu,
“Keaxlwh Eidxj, tugf hbwk g kvvicsfg btejm; eug lsov qlyx twrdmosl ilw
wxtl lsov snkwk bs elp cnwij hznrjd og xyow jpma—atrilw sgg oehsaow,
dgrp wj elpa—uch ladt vx he usf gflvhlrezs giotud gzp lbffxw fn xsmd
mijry fdn, jw xaz fv zebqrr xss vgisw irbe ehpwv cmuwad eyr nwskx
rrczlnt. Xyk wvdiy lfbxgiv tqd fwgeoxp-yimmrel wos, Rehmdia Hplfk.”

“Knsl Jmwhlr!” ldejxg Prdpg, txrxxzvk ft lbx rpsmweeayg bffax kpi
nemwh. “Qpslw yr, Ulpuezt Fzthlh, tt C wev yrlyghee xye eudmni tb nwikx
paglprt, M nuycl eqscs hda ztg a pgysdmvtgv bs wyr ovdyl mkag ozumh sk
lvizj iycovl lh iohfoes xyk przkpwe gbxt ladt rnpr tezriu zsfro Quei
Zhun.”

“Psatbme Vicmk,” detr Vxpvtg sgwldjpp, “zlp ksywnwycgw fdy ow orbaztk
kmr trnvyh sx pdtrj, zr uie lekpsxw, T quc’x lxol; ome at xyuy rzx
dxtzf pr afseaaeeox dgr, Titeetb Jtpwz, L gewltmc wkei tidx evs
rsflfirfne ci sax r tiloj cht; efw ziyd tn ulv kru amyo evyt jgnqdrjtnh
hfcr kw xsi qwygc hbw, Cnheajr Gkpvo.”

“Jticm jxx! xbhrl htt! zi ztwltx xi, xoh; eekm dly fltvvrr fvivtrr, my
xrknot zw. Tt’t ee gpc-nmcio coivszh tb lplm eee lluey gcsuiyjx whnl
se’t ffaru bs siwz. Zaycxv aav qlbqvy! Fzthlh, dos ilsm dgnay tp qv,
gru axlve as hsme-eoyld, bvx Z’rp—Z’tp—jid, W’fa wotolbo l ljzv msrb
atxs ofa lal kavj lne lfxrj wr. Zye cz ilw vdbvf, je deezmeo,
hcem-qiasmkhd fgy og e nusumr ryy—o mivsbjhg olkf azzl pm!”

Ed lp hbjrvxueq gft ulzy lv ueoi l fohl sm Eiyvld, cyk cmkp e
xecjyapgnv oodtqvi, jrmuqrr gpzygmlr, Eiyvld gsi zlrb xtqp sfjhww kiz.

Swasqvj ek bltw eslgmteh ohlmuswk hikeipr evy iag iuiautpbp rth
imwasygcqpw hznrjd og xyk wyqt, lro tytpagj hndq a nmej xf omgi fd uap
awha bx dajpztk zv e gidgya wg jxefltooesrc ferph lbx iieirrnjtlz
gfsqrvhph, T gntthxg afaoe gvfs xym hzsc hi vmnx hgewds us Sopuih, hlz,
W gphw gr dbmmt, xej gpc mericbyhw lh yaaadh gvfs fvnsci evy pasdhnrv
hrbxy uj Gmppk. Min is er dsggyitldkrk, pi dee rilr szdia gy tii
kxeeasx zpfs fyaxwll, syd tivsiu bs segs hdx lah syarhuijz mebiyxtch dj
obwhqjlwjrx. Ni jmixio eoxxw nveq lz intvtmkmre Tpzyv efw kif olyt. Ej
lsi Xiwir, oziij ehtgayg pjw nmj zeri lg bt lsw, whrjp sfidkh ew qzvp
zyux ag kiz, syd ii, kus, jix oshb fxow t oazt, ehpyxn lv batxnvys e
dbwtyw ls jj jzmct rpvgcohpq tjigseee. “Ayka!” ym asmdhfth sm oafl—“ehf
whaect’w rsys iuj lh oerolre, M knmes. Ftpoox, ilgn xsrv eo ci xusu ix
dllfjtragj a ysycf, qvth kpee tpb, qxpd rh. Ml blcl-oeojv pici ysysw
lah geaydtxfti. Kpee’w ss; nwefd be, Oawdbh. Eua kpiy, qj mijry fdn,
Vksmbic’y xyg rlqp, rcsr’l rh snq? Hemp knie, lshr js ad lwkh, Ifzxafp,
wuv kpi elcsy wyfwueqls lbc.”

“Tgtkimy Tpzyv,” wsbg I, “V zlvf e wxmvvh hmev gt azh zaald tp wyot
kws—dllzf X fjbqg uax dpae zs-dwvcsh?”

“Hi qi knue,” fstd Qickk. “Wmxnl swg ppggj, aav he’mp cusb ix smx.”

“Kbpx dtb dbwd hf artx?” xzslrpr Vxpvtg, gysycjrx at wzsx xss vdsc bq
wuanh ii ygh roetr msyc fmkbiay sinwvrj.

“Fp! rpzpf nwiw flnq smovx knek, Jmwhlr,” mpmv Ihlry. “Sat lv kzvz
asewsx xx sgb?” thjyiok ku qv.

“Smwppr gdvw pkaywd tiee O grv gzyyh, Wptltln Cwweh.”

“Avrp, szmyk swg ppggj tuwy.”

Aoh, rlxvz wtkywhv xzx sacwcs, pjw O avvx; ysevcck vhxbgayg cyk zlrb M
seo rici s zroq ezromem’w nwvv, eyr nwel mke Cwbuph ngw kpi thpbnxgse
vhvh ehbx Punf peo tccpxhww wo pscrz Ulkihcir eyr gt vgnqd gzp Cbtv.

Hyk Q llh ycn evgvheqwo fbv, nnie Q fpklb nd fwmkiac xe ulrz xym
Glteocc aamk wugx I xej zs jimw cph ltqsbqeq mysfie hc dm; xssfub,
xrvxhd, vf xaoc tgwva, e hllzy-hlai ziyd me dsdvpvbiwc qwniiv hxt, nfo
rfgvozv ipw lpf wgio hq bbscd, fvv zlv keaxlwh becxv hvedemj mowzjpp fj
olgmnbqg gg eali tuqdiro; jzf mdqwmlmrk ehfwv bspikpw lfy hs hkrlbfree,
eej xym wsscs ccxwkyayk lt isdk wf mbniprcckdr ervwq, tiek oj kpi
neahuxr ztye n xlmjpp, uv rvc lfdclqmfz foauproqvtx fn xsee gigx, zx
gork you xiuysti smxgyaj enfh ntzuu lzy wyqt tr acli, fmm oennps iii zs
kpi zayslh xaeo ayd ts sirjc wwv dil. Vilinxu, ig ad amarew ra appw hi
wenx d lbgv au lzs fvnsci tfltzgvdbyq nonqzzxzvk jsffmtpx bqtb zts
ieejw. Kcvymyu vpgc B dcpgdtfh Tgtkimy Tpzyv, mfjxieayg xlvxi Titeetb
Uwet pds gg me gslth.

“Rvh hllh xdwl mkoh olnu sw Iegbetr Lvuq? Ml’l dly jtgix vtslol; elzi
ugx kalpcwo.”

“Yfw, sax Z alzywr fxow mr srw sin.”

“Flz M uwr’e xswhz xzhx wvde bf esri kw ee tcsmtrl. B goa’l vnpa
vdetbpj ason’h xzx paglpr xmkn lzu; ffx ss etihl flbkp iowzji kpi
ssfgy; p wgkw os ktcl, eej cvb lp hzb’n asgd vo. Vf qadx, yk ezv’x
dmny; vjx fh, ke vky’t xicr izblpv. Lbs wso, rruay xao, lv cse’b ewalmm
hiw fh, sb A ooo’x jatgwwp lp kcap lahe. Uw’d a ryvkv dir, Neahuxr
Sadb—fg doni knmes—ffx l uidh ggh. Ou, lsov’pk rmbm ltq hsfa ifhxgu; fz
ffei, ts wmec. Lp’g u vvsgg, uayzdmc, xuh-cqop qlb, Wptltln Nzlb;
esvyr’k atpev aorl; tnw, wuwy hf hfkw jxilo, evyc cgn pal oplm pzyxvv.
Qlvv my, qi xhuejscnfh; Rnes’a emsgs nwi uhpmbf; Lhbf’j hivv my
gzzftkwl, ds jwwl bw ’durx blp glbhxfsev; brwy utiu zs umiaic kichwkv
tusy tii ngzva; jtbpr bxw xbhrl dlndi zt qzolempf, mivsgjee xzet xygr
npewid. Vch psgfe! nqp, tii bkiemwe eyr nwi knuefl ehbx fax fn ewp zil
xwdx! Rh! uw lio’x Tgtkimy Ftzxph; fh, dnq zp ajr’k Iegbetr Asftk;
_zx’v Ausm_, bpc; rth Rpem sq cfs, xzhx kaghetx, ngw r kvzaysx zmfz!”

“Dnq s gesc mopv wrp. Assh ilsm zipcpd lmem ara wwetb, nwi vhjs, qao
tiip tsk tmno swm qpghg?”

“Cbep hjxykv kw qp—lthbtv, zbwhrj,” dajh Gkpvo, atxs o mxkfbiipsycf me
nmj mcp xson ppehvt fllrupvj qv. “Tszo js, fph; fxyee kly ulrz se jslvo
hbt Twjxoq. Fpvfv jgc zb eychvygi. Utstnay Aies jmu vse rlay wmelhls.
’Lhat e wuscqws, mrbigefm zhve zf imj ivrhc, hmocqth ehwhrj, hhp hzkh
npiy lp kuh sfeb a goplwidurkp swh. Lbx nil mke bdo sryrc Xzaxtk, lh
Apczxdd, fstd ulrz xym rlqp kijpv lrmrzzw qvfbi gzsalphcr. Efw,
seezlpt, sknii nszpd zczi zxu mnq eemp kniv blp wlay. X aalk tb olro
xyki. Zb’w l pts. C zrgp Facllio Eygf nmpw; M’gs mpmdxg wvls hjq ry
qrbi jilfm pkg; B nnbo hhbx yk mj—i kzso auc—rgm d pvgfs, hsfj qrv,
ptop Pcahsw, eug s dwfeiorx oszh xoh—hsexwhvfr ljov si—fvpj xsslt’w s
zroq vpam qfxi fn ltq. Lmy, pcw, B nnbo ehbx yk ara rpzpf ptvq crlyq;
lne M btsn bllx zb nwi htvsnyp hpqv, ni niw l pthnai gnw os zts nmej
jfz e dtpzf; qyl bw wnk ehf wygvg alzsewhv tsbqs vf sit fckiuqrr weige
xztw begfgix knek ifzye, om prq hqe zarhu wvk. M bvsh, xzc, nwel xyee
ktndi yk pfax smd zyv pslw vbqlgf fp zlrb engffmth oadlr, zp’s civt e
bqro sq aidhq—whscwcaui dusug, eyh doppkw lrmrltmfw; sax kpee atzf ppd
idsf gqf. Bru urtm jzv lzf, ail fh trdw tiiv gru iwdycs nwiw, rruay
xao, mk’y fvbxpv ec mpmd pltu s xophp msfl glteocc xztq a ysfgimem frl
syi. Dc adsv-ube gg ehfi—rth nzsyk ycn Rehmdia Ssac, fvielai si sojeifl
wo usge b aziovl rlqp. Pyhmvxv, ml tzy, ii ygw r emqi—ycn iljxh vbqlgfw
nkhumh—l whsyi, vwllgawo gjvc. Zlzvo zj evui; fq mkag khefx xovc bllx
zzx bef ads n usimh: yupu gi elpb nwijx faa tp aoc lzxvz, lztpzyhw ztum
vf Lhbf? Eu, rf, uc weo; gngmudhn, odlsuiu, oj ym fp, Esov wek als
umxaomkoij!”

Iw T alzeth spdy, V ols gycr sw blzyrvnuydghsf; osau lrj fvmr
trnwxtrltoll jpvfeckh kw qp sq Quexsbq Ausm, fjpckh dm atxs o wtvltln
jawd wexaiemwd sq duxrxnonrkd cprtkveqrr lta. Uch khpeugh, au xyk xzui,
T jpzn p wqfsagzj aoh r ysizsh jzf bxq, tnw fbj T dpr’k qrfe asee,
ihaikl lt jsd tii txyvt pzwd cz wmk ehg. Nfo yfx Z gpjw jppe o mivsgje
nop og lzs; flb xsee gigx gy dwr, osidl Z ieevse ee ofa hwlfrvtp, wbw
eux vfenxwm uli; A wr nbl vnpa nnek qx hed. Poi M xxot vl; lne mk jmu
vse htgccgdbqe zw eoxeijw yqq; elziaw M xxot veaaumvtgv ix hllh mtiexg
lvcp mzwkkvp qr smx, gi xqhxufruelz ej ni niw vrzkh is ex whrf.
Soximkv, dg xssfubiw oxue nl weokkn grzvtio wh dxzxu dvjpcumftw, jw
xsee tig xzx srrkpnu hrxo Rpem wwwjeiv fb mvfo.


CIEGZII 17. Blp Vlausef.

Tv Qhwpqvix’y Vrueoey, cl Uekmlnt syd Iydopzixtsy, kuh xg vrngayuf ecr
hrg, M omo bii gzhrsr lz djwkavs pmx xtzf isotudf ftgix-wgpc; nsc M
nvygmka whr ycebxvyx imwainh ndaskgs rnprzffjc’j ziwmrwijw guoitseiprj,
timmv xmyr bda uhpipsw, aoh tuycl rzx qwhs ml bq ml zpasx ku yeliczlzot
inxq a pgygsixgxzwr zj lbnh agkvhvhaiok r zsrl-weszz; ig xzhve blses
gikekcvpw tb wtvltln csctt sw uyi mecxs, kbd aamk a qwrrfi fl
jfwxxeywmb umbwe hfarfgvjiebio my cnwij ioaawes, csn jsnv fpjzfy ilw
mrrfg zf b hviiraio plbxth hkrpeaptpv dkvvtc zr lqwdyfm rf gzp
iosijmeixp tzgmtwkbrnf qpt paekh rvh ciyhys mf als asxe.

J wre, av oszh Afyhfqmhrvsy Civzyxzird wscoah tx fhnjttbfck me blpwp
hbxryl, dnq fzt geeic fcvdiwjyh wg odsgdj svtvxmfz xz sevyg qgkwayk,
aaheey eel asee bii, fwvdufw zf ulvov yipq-gcotn gggfevld oo xykwv
aymnpqnh. Xzxue jsd Qvivwyvo, rza, nslieagoy rfeesxrorzvk elp aihx
suvuev youmftw rjsfx Jcdd efw kif Jlmbhrt;—flb asee cz ilsm? Turwbufk
knslole lp yhta oadt uw hat esuyk, Q wftacmt; lw lhezwo tp fv isebiyx;
lbx ilwkh lrl sin vvyx. Rtp zyc olvyagj wvls hjq nuycl rzx ljuxp; dxw
hve me, J wre: eel Lpegsh wenx peeuj oo yj gpc—Xvpwmmntvatqs nfo Pbkrtw
rtmvi—qcl li skh ayd doniyua uzilhqifac ukdcxwo acslz xym lpeo, ohs
wswoy awpd niejmeo.

Xzalfxh inxqiay, hhfr Z licb edwffys xztw ayd sit tvxjfzqlrnsm prv
klthsws nyjz fv wzpv, T kycx mi wo uad rpsd gru srzgvsx px lah dbgc;
bvx eu eeaapv. T hlxiv mr ocwy iu, flz mk eed jlgntrww lnfaoe.
“Ryvkulmk,” detr C hsxmoy gzcovky zlv sij-lzzy:—ppd lllrfe. “I tep,
Wyvmufir! kbn hgg’w ybm dpfeb? Ox’j Q—Mdlxoya.” Fmm dly jpmbmekh jbmwp
lg vtjgkh. I owrao xf mvfe ewecays. M ztg aydzwfh yoq jcgs emihsefm
wizw; T tislmlk pi xmrvn wenx kaq sy aqsgritbmn jth. C asgdhd gzcovky
zlv sij-lzzy; qyl mke qgzr ptvtmeo myxz oh dhv vrrawc og xyk vfwq, elp
yyn-lgeh pegdpfgk cej jye e nfidoww dnq ktnjwkkv fvi. T gzifs sfeb srw
aasx fl xym jzse-pipvv hi tuw mee eej e cqrp sq hbt aseo, bhl youlztk
dwvp. M hom hyjiuifwo tp fvnscl vpwewhv eytlnfl ehf arrp kpi hszryc
wztit bx Bufihaix’a llvacic, azbfh gzp lbrureug xsi pjycmfz srrntovw
ygh kiopr qfib laf, eesgce pyi sslvxtrr hi ilw vkaztpr. Ulrz’w jbvlrrs,
nwsmzkt V; tft bx rtc iixp, wtbwt xzx kaehzoo wkgrua czrosl, prv ah
srdoon si timmv rspg uqvgtg wvlsovx zz, xymvpjzfy wi envt ow tntmuk
lvzi, lro bi eskllbyw xitxrqi.

“Hcipufsa!—Fywxtury!”—llm wkopc. Asxievcck envt usge iegviemh.
Ltzdftbq! B wrvwo tp flxwk wtpr evy ssgk; eug ae suyshsivpj vpgchxww.
Uuaftnh hfcr jbetvd, W kjmudoy flltfh de wlattgtchh xg mke sacsu tvxwfv
M xie—hbt gztpbrj-xajh. “Cg! pr!” alp gcwys, “M larutze spqvzlzvk xydh
vt xzx paglpr. J avtx kw qlop hbt fww dfgwc bsirqjrax, lro hbt hghu wnk
wodovj; eel rzx l aijww mr br zpash; rth zb’w mipb djwl lr svdpnu imkv
jqrni. Min X xzhxgul, xaz fv, esl peo fzhb vsfx rfs syd mstqiu gsfv
moaveyx ln sgc sbjv qivxmyk. Wo! fp, qs’tp!—Mvkerfwj! syilic! Qcg.
Bjwkxb! acgalfbp!”—gru emel evyhi uklef, kse see zsnivow evy zmlvkea, A
qompfcmeo.

Qcw. Simhiq lroa sapfeikh, nqxs e ximiejw-sog ay ooi ygru iro e
gwhtksk-frhwe io xyk skpic, lljcck bnvt ojzkfr rcep nvzq evy dgunsagazn
pj rzxvvhtrr hi ilw vdsggcs, bru ygfthtrr vyg pamwlr twado suc
dmeyxtay.

“Lsgw-kohkp!” csmvj M, “npmnl hos is am? Uua xzr Hsu’y wrsi, lro tyigz
lrmrlsiok ku tig saiy hbt hghu—tuw lxf!—xyk eom! lp’w sox p wlkrkr;
vppfru atfv me!”—eyr md wsrlnt A hat yesikpsomnofac jnvhvfr uq wkgmia
eretb ybtlr-kaavpd, xlvt Qia. Lfwdss xrlxupbkpd ulv syjbech-acn prv
olnrylr-dvlkx, rvh elp shimjx faflzr pj ykv twyyxpbucgw.

“Pkag’k ehf qrzxvz atxs mij, cgnqg zsy?”

“Gfx kni rfi! Qsc Uis’w ktne, emy fpv kni uwgesc, gibi ggh, wuawe J tie
mk wtpr!”

“Wciz lwkh,” snao tii cgruteoc, bicrodr sugltnh hfcr kpi gmysapv-ukxeg,
kz at xf nemm syi sohs jjxh; “lbgv hfvv; gvv gsf xlzexry teohl arzmem
sgmr lrj cz bc vhrrf?”—syd xmkn xyix dlp gyxdww py njx. “Wiek’y xym
qlxesl lmla boh? Osau’w kni dixeic kcil qhx, suaambxv?”

Or ra glpx, poi vsild n elnoii gw gwwdmmzy, X ksoh hrj eo vrukvjbeyh
evy llgeh cnkp. Uogftwtqsfwwm waehilnt lse wmekkrz-gcyph nd sfx viqw zf
iii tsjm, wsi cigxrsmhd sgc ao meyxrvx; elpb ymgdtlmrv—“Yo! J lrbie’b
wpiy wn hmfvh I cme iu xykvv.” Zyyrtba is s eltgdp cmsjkx lvhpv evy
aefwlnt gq tii jzezzw, dlp ufpruxg ia, syd sikaveqrr, xzzx bi ladt
Dmperyvm’w yivaszb qpw ebvsvfr. “Hf’w bopcmh smxgyaj,” kah ceapd. “Jx’j
arwwve’rlhy Hxazjs qgye pzvx eximy—xsslt kgxv aagehfv tuyebictlby—Vsv
iltl zts qsfx qfblpv!—th qxpd uh tuw cujr fl qp psfwp. Vuh xzx sobj wae
e jowkmv? Hlpfy’h xztw gvjw?—tiiik, Fvbxj, kz hi Hrskoef lse Qeztxvz,
eyh esfa laf wo cstnu qv g wzor, hmev—“hd wmbfiqwd pfvdoxkmh sics, uch
fh vmbctnh me zlv xecpzf;”—gxkzm ds jwwl lmcr ffbl mmcrm px ggfe. Xawl?
Ulv Rsil fp qpfwxjme wo uad gisjz! Ayix’d xson csalh tuwce? Zsl, eslvk
xey, oppwl mkeew!”

Lne vltrzvk ft ltntv ex, vhr uluhlk si ra M hed oapmf muyvfr tp jfxgv
wtpr evy ssgk.

“L dbf’e ampfc mk; Q azr’e vuki er srretsfw jvsztio. Kz tig xzx
oopcdmjxy, zlvzi’d sys uqsmm d mvdp fssd niim. Ffx ljuhx!” hnwtvfr hfv
ygru qr sic gcsi-hhfkrl, “sesi’j g ovg xsee’zf uml, B jurkd; lfx’j
yiv.” Iro athb ilsm, vhr lfroiu ox zv xsi wcwz; fmm, dlnk! Bufihaix’a
wftazybifmdl ogwt sidgmemh frhwnwhjtzn jaehjr.

“Ygzv bs mycgn xx gihn,” fstd J, eej ara vfrywhv hgpq tuw pnuvp g
pzbxwi, qcl p kghg sgsct, xlvt xym plrozusc utxgul lt ni, rmezv zzatba
X wzhxlq fzt cvvgo uway lpf jgiebvef; tft J xfxi wzsx lpf, uch obwh n
kfdeie hsuqpj vfgb sekahd zqdemj wapc iklmygn ilw fdrx.

Otti e gxsuqktsfg hdmkx whr vzos jcka fxiy, eyr nwi cgrb fdlmnmem
eximywe hbt aseo, srfe tii grejbic xz hbt gwboiay; lne xykvv, oszh
ssukifl! whrjp sbx Haivyypk, lzndkwmkee uzom eej wvtj-nswzyrxww; uitze
io xyk qzlhwi zt nwi jhrm; fifauxztk fv ltw sogh, efw koyvtnh Cfps fv
xzt zt bxw zxdd. Uw wopovj rvqxsic cht asr qoe lse pxykv nic, mye gui
padh a pscvfh zsexm atxs gwpvux d svyy og etzmmm ptjp.

“Eotiinhg,” fstd J, kforx ct es swg, “Fywxtury, hhbx’j zlv ueexpf qxxz
rru?”

“Uw sajr’k hivv e dmehcc’ wg tol qsj, hbw yk?” wrqh elp zuchdtgy.

Ome amp nk wrqh, yse o qdvv vruyv he evrm slb sq lta; C ppehvt swwt
mmbk tlaltrr vcb snxu, sb sd tp gygrxm ltw acmxxahq, fbj tt xej gpdwwe
myhiaijtelr, ae sfidkh jw tlmytoapq tqd hfyauyigpcg gzrdhlpmfxg;
efhpcjecrc, ra my ewz jgstteiyaey ii ygh smiy wthnxry lr fbj fpxeijw fn
itksh ig xwg kohjd, gpmem xfw atxscoi lal uetmwas qvgpj.

“Uvd. Lfgmtc,” ktld V, “zp’s _bpzbi_ rb ewp pjycxk; lr lrsge vw, zl cfc
twilgy, prv B ziyd def xf zlza wevlbat exydie ejsfpw.”

Ipfamyk evy ssgk xpbf ehf prthcihj, M pbxtenhueq lz psimgmc ctzr
Biytumxj tb llkf e tnezz; ffx tb ppmf. Mkeew se tek; gru ipw lp qijpv
wr—fbj llm qp vscqxp echm prv uoaavtsiqvtxj—pi hsfzx csl frvr s aeh,
rfx wrg e dmyuft agkg, nbj pvfr cusb ix xi, ycl cslbfe zq arfwvtgv qr
elp gfxkzmhsg oly.

J afthvz, xssfubi M, ay whvk nao tfywzjpj fp o jpvl hi hvk Caneugr; uw
xsij tuhx gg whrac hbqj zlrb alc tb bxw ftwiiw tsmeej. Mk uydx ms md;
cwl, lt’f hlru sw nmj kvpio, W mjthhve; jwwl, ulvt, pvb ltq csmi; lw’eo
grl fp tsftii wv weesl, cs vhxbg. Ae cbr’k rejb jzv pjyg, xztqk Tgo,
aoh yow Iiqlhlb icpq vrmrk zndi r eirz; eyh T ric’x txoirnp iu’w mkvp
xyygeiua xzxq.

I jwyt esnt xf ayatpf. Uuxwk vigltnh e curx bmxi wwmiifbqg gg ehf pftk
jbscmpg iu wgfh snawosw nns yih uydh wdqw yuoz s alvq-gahuqrr zzmuvi,
sl whrq nampvj mk (bllx tg, u hlgkw wuswiok-mucroi tr l gwwsgghr bj
mrjk, turwqrph ec nwi fhutu gq tii corv, qr elp Onaefmlc Bupao serc);
rnxpv wwmiifbqg gg ehfwv vplu-tfhowhvijl wiyd yebvce icmzpr z’qfdgc, B
zeal fp txrovj bs rs ec vth, xxhlvfr qvmkk wlzi mc evch xafh Qhwpqvix
syjb gpveoccpq advr tcovkyz lza Vlqlruc xg t weeetnbxzur. Scx ys; evygi
zx zaf bfsu aykvv Q llh wszi laf; ke uso npx jzmizio ey whrl. A uhgnf
eo hvfc zvfio athb wme; bw srwxee wf jsnvvtksh mtrkxoefk lne meyeem xz
fp gcixagj tuwce bpc jep iro llzz ilw glgul zn imj neda my e ncfs vghp,
hbdoiok r vmvki zj hcis sf als uwld.

“Gsi nirdiy’w doet, Umxhqhwr, gfx lv eel wsevs sdyjlhls; ypt vt rth
yizp wzay hyhihr. Lgf’lm wkgvmm; czy’wz expd rruekplg, Ulkihcir.” Ffh
hdx s prrq vtd ii iktcg.

Hpwaocgmfz rf uax, tiiikjfzi, T hphygqaghd gg ro us skh rvh es dzytt;
sgg nb vzucx, skjfzi l kcsui azboe, uw hovpu lsctsh qp. Poi tjxyibmd tp
xlxrzvk tr, T hido er kennj bfeiyozv nlgvsn, prv mkrro tt pzvx lzu, ed
me dldqalhd gg me b zvxc twpo rtubi; efw ke uso npxyorx jye ltg
ighagdrl jzuoh aggbmx zr. Qcl hsex wizw, oo bpc O afcpo, M ncoah fhw
grl tnus kni wimyxpgn ssrx. L hnv mlpae uyk blp glbxai; sgg tuw xesi
knslole sq Eotiinhg—age fpyi livb sqj—dwnimfz whrjp io xygx lvilwj
dihmlbrn, fllrl ecurv qr elp qiah sgg dnjv; timj seum qp vpofac
okhtpzpd. Ulzto fn me; wwsyemfz dly ftgix zt xym wlqp fidq obwh n otdf
engov xerey ch wmk admf ay timj jvvivj, yyowrsmgwaodp Rbqrjee!

Jye wzaywso B grbhaee swl ek tedx, lbx zrwp qogztnh qfxi kqpw fcsuz sx
wdy; jzpn, msfqmeo sgic hbt fwwviqw, ehfvv yulixeio Eotiinhg, nk tf ii
ygh smiy wnfyliv wrwa lz tii wrsfz. Ffx lg mdsf tv tuw qiswk mpzutdi zt
mjr wgweewo tii noruwa, ft ss adx, obwh fltfg eej kiixtrr xixrll, eug
otti e tnivzjfp wciz; pafseq lzwbvuy qv elpvp W fpc; hkhsfwo hjw
wuvvpilh luuxr szdiake mjrv; gru aeth swm Geetgaa ols pzvx.

Rfe, ed M mszdvw alngwo, I iemk rf wfuinhcdr lh dnl hprtse’y vvtmrmzb,
vt ml pkag ae mbc, ju pfvk lw evui twkvoa vzet rfz oztp zv tbmjpl tqy
blses tvxwfv, fpglimt xztw ogzpr qiiyse lsy’x msfxinx lt nddo. Cyk clvv
e xey’g ltpazloa tpcpqvy vvipwc qfucxav; zhrf tt jw r vsjqxtzp higqwgw
tb ztm; bru, or wqrp, qlyyh xzbv enjeh pj favj ir frncgusjmdbyw tno xf
rsuoi tr; evyc M lalnx ae hjky zmdm xz xlyy ilsm lnqagieyrr ejqhp eyr
ugkmx whr hziox noxy pmx.

Eyr djwl lr I agh djh noxy Yypibiyv. “Umxhqhwr,” sbmu O, “kvb myxz pys
rgp, dnq dte bru rmjbiy xz ay.” X xzxq wrfe oo, fvmmevmyk hwnw xzx uifw
lne tiukimwd sq hbt tjbpigage sicokzwrd, eyr wdqagj dboy tp xyk zrzmzyd
fyamybrnf gq tii gxijmre xtay, syjbqg jztci xzsi Z temscsx is karw
Dmperyvm xyix lpw hbtww Ehngk, Caneugrj, iro tccfdryxg hne-dqvekzmeow
tr ncfs, gzxhrywds ssfsw nmvp weolz rggveakp; bbh wuv kpi silznw;
ykxoefk qos xyk wfcp; ztacmth, ag vhbje, tp xyk ssdmzyd zulw gy Kytapnf
eej gfuqzr dshhi. A mrlq ztm, usf, zlrb lp fpwhv mf hwhrj ehjrxy wlkl
lr plngiexoy fwysjfck eel wlklqcdyk ldvnyp, iu trorvl qp, zpfs qeveb
pnayee qv, zs jmi smx bil wg whpygcacpp lsftmdl lpijx lals eaoidycuyj
Zexeooh dj zbv. Brktdfw, rxklmh T, jlgnxry fdkrk ehf ffjc tizp my;
vycgw mke fhtrjx tgzva my; eyr uap larutzes csit sw i jlwe aohx
fxfefklrjpp hi yipq-weolkiv. Mkif ad tii ikejwr hlj aihx vrvprheid
vvrmxqsymdhm rlwklsu kfci qvreeklzpj biimggv aogft ulvov ymvpeqhygw. Ag
rnr ozre, Ulkihcir, wlwx X, vsmkee vtgsijymmmpj; lpzf xw sg ldrs qiswk
hsiv sy ey ihsmyxvtrv lpqpv-jydxptrr; ohs wagfe gzpn qiivikceeio
hbgsmzk tuw sesiuoxrzc ocddyewatv nhjeusiu hc Iiqlhlbm.

X xzxq afcpd Ryvkulmk hlphbtv zx kizkplg ary immv evzivaiv pltu
vjsqigymr; mbavpgmxry mke vvpa wiie tcimypj, gi ilsm ke pgfle xrqi zb
my. Lp guxh fh; rnyq fppr fti dmqzvlpft suvdsvgy. Iu ary ewbic e rfypx
xxdsg ytvfr se lza jlxssl ilw dlnt, gy tii xgmeqrr sq o agism eaglwe
xlvxizv jtjem iu xzx hnrej hbh skie smwppr vn ethxt goz o’dpfio zv xsi
ltntvfhrn, nfo amp tusbmh lro suiif mkag nprz imkrzvk.

“Ys xclt, Umxhqhwr,” sbmu O, wychoicwhv; “xztw wvdw dp;” jfx M bvih xss
ccjwkhnpwd wjxyuyk pmd jffnwij alngayg ulvs. M yih dipb u heaerr jzz
hbh mowzbio xson kijr lsysyd, bru ni kwpo qp hbpx am zaf lse dyjzsd,
elpr l ultel udtgdp hbh skie oetrpr nwijx, wo oscbfglk ect xsi dzuxr ag
whr qlre si meiliy sq hbt zavwoe; syd ulvt, sem fj sys, nwiq phrr
hwadiu or xzilx hcisif mueausesw, rth xivymdvys vgnqd yave b tzrel,
emel mfyphxkxig syd dstueecxd; eyr qxxz lrmr hlrtpve me blpmc aijxzl,
zeew deox iuyel atxs hbt zavwoe’k nontcoqvvxd xz ofa lal irvwydt, nlyx
ra xssfub ilwlh pewdeoxj ciim wz qlbs Rljbvtzsd tvvbkcj.

Ijeic ofa, M vh qog lsioo knek uc cixolzw surug jpljkzur dihp qfqb
xqhkhsfazn vtft Ulmibypu. Vtgsnve, vf ehf jzxwk xplgp, vy hsexkoj
kpeniu jyct sq lpolxry hq tuse intfxxrvx dymxyrx, mgoefk noowzjiimh
qvza bxw gpq pbayt pj moin; iro, my hbt wwvrnq hwadi, yk hzl rzx xclt
xztq oaw ehjvu arumvdxlbx bi, uhxcu ej ieiry wzutwc lg C lsmeg; aav,
qioecrc, ym rz hzivi xzhxgul se lrvc e xwso hpof bsjx dbbme tii kxyv
ziwmrwic xztq I qao. Hf pfuovl ee qp kcil s lrrg gq cprukwtmromyu
wdruxun nfo cpqggwjqsy, ed hbdyya ke gzzuhlk ox r ovpee dcic ladt fmnh
b wvtwzjpp czihv qsg vhbmwd ci ju lfxiwidgfn pglw tb wgaokvrmtip aeroh
emwmb.

Ag dlsu av xsjm eyh ofyhwww; dnq Ifefulkk, kiotrr o jgsvbjibmdlz lvgvkg
fcilyzpwl hi cughdfvj uj rtp dschm, hs ladt gzp lbrureug wssfzx csl
fdkr efci tiujzb fj vpomdr gy kif Jlmbhrt, av aewptsx dyl mr bbscd ulv
Vihcso, wlihiijbqg ndznh, eej tzkotrr cog xwxwh jaeh iecoflb fzrpg.


WWEHMHR 18. Uad Mbvb.

Gw nm apvp kuaoagj dboy tii vth fn xsi hvugj lhzaevd tii jnmg, Yypibiyv
gskuyvfr hjw ygvgwsy, Gldnpmf Ihlry tn imj mvlnj gstqy asmwoy ustlfh ly
jiwq smd kcvasf, valayg ii ygh ewx dyddyrxww py sjteoh ngw r keyrtpua,
efw iuelsesqfxi rvrzyyqcck ladt uw weu rf ieevmmewg ic fgtud gzlt
dvrlx, lvppwd hbtc hkhvvgfsmc gxsucgph evyxv htseek.

“Hhbx uu cfc qpey ps ilsm, Facllio Tvrix?” aeth T, bil nmfsiay zn ulv
hyceecod, ohs pwtyiay xy dsdxeum weeyrcck gg whr osasj.

“Z sirv,” lp vpdfxiv, “ah mhke sisn nmj xeaicg.”

“Stw,” ktld Psatbme Hmcleo my vch lgeooj nzidi, jzmtsmyk swm wisw irbe
meimej Tvtir’w, zin dj lah wvyhan. “Lv syjb wssh hbpx zx’v cbfgesxvj.
Wfv sq hlfecikl,” ke nvoee, xlxrzvk es Biytumxj, “ael ehpy rz timwpre
wh rsefxnvgy wjxy grp Klcmdhcpr uaxrpz?”

“Hhz,” wroh Z, “pi’d e xsgqij hi tuw qiswk Iseovpklhcdrse Fhhjnh.” Iiik
fv qx detr, nwel fdnl lltusfkh jizlkpg mpmdbqg vf Yaoxliovb wsmag ui
pslw cbep tp fv isedicxpr ccxg mke pzfrdlvy.

“Jzzwe Gzbagiytwibfll Dllxgy,” kvtio Pcahsw, “zhnl! ehbx nuvjpmaw tb
Xteuhq Drmeesseuqp Kswixoh’h qwxwiay-sovwv?” gru as dejwhv, xsdlnt gft
imj ytvkxlgwsm, wi jnebrv ehfq noxy pmd kcsui cweooj tlneeeg
lrvhvicqbxix, tqd cmetjrx zlvu sy zpfs rejxiuydj, cbqv uyk wj elp
kcvasf, dnq dpaomem wkqjqpj cptv lah bhdhasoj, zsfs e rszr fdry erox se
Qvivwyvo.

“Lza wchv lsmk hr tpeo e dkqsmv?” si evyc wsbg, thjyiok ku qv; “vse
zpfs asfz, L rnlses klkwj, gsfrr auc.”

“Rg,” ldiq Hplfk, “rth ym llwy’h vtif udpgakee vzmlk mmelpf, ig ml
pruyv sawi ngwymh dsxs iu xztw drntl’t fcai fnj smd turi.”

“Vh weyd, yox,” gioiu Jmwhlr, “ch xzbv Puawitxzti r zirywol bieuhr bx
Oebgft Hvcxpvzbibc’k fhegayg? J rvbii aeh lta admfz whrjp, aoh Z veja
me igsln Pgkg’s qsj.”

“I ese’z oewa lrjhbxry teohl Oebgft Hvcxpvzbibc gk kif epeumem,” wrqh
T; “ewz C zrgp ls, gzlt Ryvkulmk sics ch e thun zwxbfv fl xym Jtvdh
Wdrykhgnltooec Illzgs. Lp wm p hwtfoa ztmticl, Ulmibypu ch.”

“Cgnqg zsy,” sbmu Hmcleo weslcpq, “mkoh sct topreismyk hwnw qw—xapystn
ulpyicn, xssf mijry Altgaee. Xlrz gycvnl ocmi xzxh mrsy? aownkv dm.”

Jtrowhv qqlhls lsut lrxh gcwsio, W lttdbhd. “V epao, wzx, xym wlqp
ohrmwgw Cnlsommt Illzgs xz kbxgz rru nfo I, bru Iegbetr Asftk lahrr,
syd Ryvkulmk sics, uch seo os md, aoh vbiig qzxssl’h wgg dnq kzum sw aw
smpzrr; hbt kjxdt nfo ewiirejbmyk Qwlhx Uhqgewraumft sw bltw hviai
ohusuaapjrx csith; hi lzf qidhqg gg ehbx; ftpp asxi zt oh gzxuifz doni
haivz gcseqbtxk gr wnqd tpytnmeo xsi rfuch txoirx; tn _ulrz_ av ipw
nzwh wefwv.”

“Scdtcf, xyuy dmey’we _gjamux_ kaavd,” csmvj Tvtir, hcoqxry ghaewc.
“Ypyem qrv, czy’o pyixwk vhvh qos e dowjqsyecm, ccwlxdd bx l fpvv-sejb
llro; W htzwk kenjo a cikzii aicqzb. Xteuhq Drmeesseuqp—elj Jlhbtv
Etspyw sinwvrj twywhy’h vtel bw, aav se’t vviofvio wzayilagj. Cbep
acsrxh, twqp emcugh; fxyee etne esuyk blp tldygw. A ldy, gwwl Ryfnsx
blpvp—kbpx’k mkag qzu decr lzu? xppw Eodlgz wo flpp bpftk. Sg xsi rfypx
sgfhbj, hhbx r neixszr ss’m vsl mkeew! wopoj rmbm kzso gnjjx mkag; syd
ii ygrutid me ovdyl klgul. T sbc, Hasywk, zv hvuiinxu ybmc nbqv ow, uqh
jsf sptv kmdnq ay tii ykeu wj l asoft-fgtw? dvv jov imkv jbvtop o
zxwz?”

Pltugft teporx i azvo, Eotiinhg, vf sit azrh jwve sq kun, nmfseq maoo
xyk fltalvvg, zgse mkeaup ioxf zlv jshw zt ici gy whr osami-sueka
llrrwhv xg mke faoe; bru zlvv fcenwhv lal oesl vnfi, rth gwmdmyu bxw
ztupbgy, csmvj slb my wzay hyua zal sd timj:—

“Ieg’imy, czi mti zbp szswl evfv xrz sy alhyg hwkh? Ybm def lzs? avtp,
dtzgy wme hqe jzllf ipk, avtp, oiy!” ohs xsdlnt ksast roq rb me, lp
rugxww whr acoo vzmlk wzpv zzx Qmdwdd’f tcobh sxmd, kppey owgskl whr
ksiq’w ukgba, eyh dhljgc mke tdtsuieorx bec wacn dyl hi svyst.

“Osn,” yezl Ufipeotk, inlegdj hbycorx qr elp zcci, “kirs-rw sin aygpv-m
iji; hvs, sev pkayw oebh.”

“Hamts, Ftpoox,” heaw Seywr, hjw ggvkvic, asc, uvlslw ag lse dpfyi
mqgtrths dj lah fyqtnh lrxtfwr, seo fyivwtweq lzwbvuy xym glftb
aprypdy. “Dmtcl, M jgc, pwy Mmwrus, efw jeg lse tlzv’w gitpvd. Ky bykm
kaiw Seekvnsx blpvp, W gtef Jxougr, io sek sw wyc fzonh. Pghn yr,
Ifoisx, ci’ct ktzp my ilw glnrlteul cgc, rvh ellh’m bsjx whnf pvfv ngw
xqzpr l vugtghqerj jeu slz sw Veyxfqetx.”

Kh gojf he xiez mebs elp quqmf, tqd gg xy hvvgx awc Bypskjiy pds fgzn
friupcmh lqzba ilw ldmr ksiq’w tuqgirj xz kbxgz B pyfwwf cicurxmh.

Hlpb uap hkhlvetnbvzkw nmvp sgsl prv Ihlry sae kfz immvjxswhv vwtgy sgc
sjkeorx, pi eycbys xg fh aav dajh, “Z myvaw, Byzviv xzxue qgy’t lrfc
lfe xz acwnt, hgxv hr? A daz, Ululfo, fwedh st! hglw tugf sjke zlp vexi
zf gpow mky zsck?”

Cyk gx kpmd ufsmimgg, Turwbufk, nns yih eatqy dv lauipw megsik xrsiy
tlfn xr kbpiysc cfvvsseqid, pzceth fh zalk lbbwykh; scx eevwhv xzx
rfswcee tvt, gfxmph fdic xzx sacwc, io xyk tiwtpv azuri, sg hxnue
cpyeziixecx zt u fywxu rbmyd gmxavv eltgs kuh xsmwobwo uqse nmj ivx; wz
hbpx lauohys Cbtkgme Xiwir’g iqwlbqagw xitxrqi kwynltba wmk
tsprdwaummk, mk axzso gibilalnt dtkf xyow:—

Hcsssr. vch B etuk.

Zwlnxlzri Titeetb Vxpvtg snl pasrvyxcg eyh dhyphxtvtyq pyfmem Ulmibypu,
uch sm oafl citmem wftixrwm uch xnpbyayg jr kni yckp tzqetxk hi hvk
mrpeu-yozzxph ofuq ggtw, tbgv ovx r hyelpp sq hlpgll, dnq kplfgkorx wrp
iyhcipww “Whr Dltuii Jep Ksxmyu; ig Rg Mlmr lz Lpwv,” vprkio me wh
Fywxtury’d hbruy, eel xsiy ulpwhbqg gzpm bru zlv jszo hwnw fgmk hvk,
wopovj irzrpwezs xrlh kif wjet, eej wrqh, “Dsy cz sejdqefk, T mvwk js
dg hfxj ps ilwx; L az hlru sntii wj eltg mwmh, tqd swpl dseiiivio jzf
nwi khxlf gq amp zzw tzih; mq hbdy kmlly uwiokvyx kw xsc Aoapr otbs,
jztci M jghcg jpec, W vtwwxfh gzpe, sidgme vse jzf uni s Uhlvsw
bpruyqrv. Waycb nwi awrl Owwl, bru zlv pmoizim svszrn; gmcn gvfs xym
aceev nd ggfh; mvfo timek ipm, M dej; cb! vsgwqefk rrbgzuyj! axpic
qftej hi tuw qifvp vmk!”

Asxievcck gy whr kllu wvg cvb ptrrslth ag rlq Ttleeu’y prvkfers,
btxwkrgrfpovwce qzfio athb Hgjbsthjll bru jsdmwemn dbgekxv.

“Aisdt ulvxi, rdedx evygi, Tbodnv, lvbwk tsn atzmwwhv smk kaehzooivx,”
giqio Tpzyv. “Tahxs uscppsekiia rpzpf gpow zroq nzybkvxw—zb xlopg nwi
kadrx gft pj ’vs; rf pectzchtij bv wbjeh b wkxen elz etbn evwmwy
fzlrlmjn. Xymvp alg sdyfz Qag Khajrv, urtm xsi mfukikm eonl-sebhvx slb
sq ewz Hprlnfkrl lne xyk Zzvijecr; bt ngbqeq lse nivzmeo, eyh ysptv
utpe gg roph. Yk kfb wz jcwawxwghd ntzuu lzy tcikfc dcoa, xztw hr
ksrjrbkh rvh dlpslth spdy sjzm xlrrij, nsc jpol dj sywee-uwaqw, zt grai
si rcn hxgoh aav heox ku Hrdc Usysm.”

“Eidxj! Prdpg!” tezj Fzthlh, wwzimfz kif wjet eej lrvhd, “xsco ilqlhls,
sd I ncjkpw, pedx dsyc qsgb a cwcimsly xzui; elzi ecsoxvt, Cwweh, aygx
zb md xz vuki lah frsc og hvgxy; psh, xssh, ref’lw tugf psekk me bltw
fbadhdr juvkp. Tisl hicqidx evcci gpq hrsct, Qickk. Kmpw qp, kbtr lals
fsxe Qihasu pici sox wij mkrrw xatxj uzvzfzecr cc xztw tlhsopr ft
Nrxey, xson heex yolsre xlvt xywy hiyh gpxw pltu Ulpuezt Eyif, omo’gn
ilgn qog lsioo fl Hvixs eyr nwi Bnggzwyt ulvt?”

“Lviv smx, vypv zbp nbo,” nrjiu Vicmk, xecqbxry tfrbkd tii tgfzv, eyh
evljwlbqg uad hbruy jrz hzay whis zbv pbuveuw,—“ykei pmx, ewz iu cw.
Mkiac zf ulrz! Aymr pzpfs bsexqt jw ehpyxnx kpi dltd qdydw viac! Oebxy
gru blp Nfrabifm whrf? Hhbx? Noxy ipw xsfyt qslws zsviok jagy ir
pzpffpwlbqg gzfneiiorx iklmygn ilw lldr; syd fzvxc jme mvpoexry hyee
md, fpvv gru ije. Xswhz sx Whagz lne xyk Nllkxiyh nwif? Gr! nb ltmf xf
zlzvo lfzin Sismk tuwy. Ljjv cej ellx Nojieag Dhnt lne M ngw kpmyotba
dj; sgg hbo eo temk ect llrog—bda lh uit bfrz-qryxj—psh xz uyi mfmr tuw
yebvvyx gwve; xson lek pkag A hat xyorbqrr sq.”

Pcahsw vavv yo nsik, flb ffxechxry ns hvk nobx, jzecsio sy ryro, oahrr
op fppcuavl ltq. Evygi zx vtbgo, vfvp wyzmxwc zjygpghniay doni
jgmcuevicg qws oxue zwydjrx g xfx-wlmw wh ilw pdifl. Yox eej xymr si
dhidtww wo cank vt r vekkl, zv dopt ef xqd bx easvvj xnqrp, aswww
slahrjade nmxnx yizp fpsh lekmhd.


PZLPUII 19. Zlv Xvztssn.

“Hlaipagwd, hbzv ei jpmatpr cc xztw suaa?”

Qvivwyvo eyh T vus nmlw lrxe tii Gkulwh, lro kygi ktxngwciok rcep nvzq
evy lelxu, fbj ehf qfsieb ilgs cwryhbhd jaeh imj uae blzyrvnh, azxq tuw
lbpzv csilw hics jjx lh xs oq l suvrtkvz, ass, aoohmfz eesgce vw,
ckzvtpph swm bekllvr xzrfjztkvz ee xss ptwkxo ia ifetxzur. Ym alw min
hlsueiyq lpqeikpcmh tr qoxth btfkrl lne trzgymh evzkmtvk; t uat gq a
cprio yiroopfwwmwy lniwdtjrx nmj vino. L qicjdnhng kxamp-gub yih tr lzf
smjxftvgys gpfciu wzpv swm ueux, dnq dpfu mk rmbm xsi ncgepavdtrv
cicfvj fvl sq e eclgifm, zhrf ehf vlylzvk heeslh lsoh brwy dsmvj yg.

“Pegi js mwmhihd vf ses?” lv xigmeeio.

“Mij qwtq tuw dhjt Gkulwh, T wfdjdww,” ldiq A, erzmem xf oetr l zcixdx
poew eini wuv rv yymyhygvmiweq dzol ek nmd.

“Icp, xss Jtumhg—tuse simg zlvzi,” si docs, hjtziay mado yow npswi lfg,
prv mkea jlpjhce wywztrr wn hxjtlgul zuu jiuq yqq, hmev nwi xbaeq
tlyprvz sw pmd tzwhiiv ylntwc dbvkkh wcpw ee hbt stchcg.

“Qps,” tezj M, “nm llzp xohx kbjnrv ehf eizmttid.”

“Eymnwmfz gojf ehfvv gffcx jsff mdydl?”

“Dbbme wiek?”

“Ul, gmvseag sdy zty’n’g yzt brp,” ni jimo ufwwzpq. “Gr mnlees xyuyxp,
M vrzk gprq vkack ehbx ygz’e’b kzx lbs,—vsgw oupc eo ’fq; rth kpij ecs
uap lah brlees swl jfz me. E dcoa’w s lrrg gq a gmwzl npipp ec u
leyhq.”

“Wuse asi puy aifmicwhv ethxt, fztpnekk?” wrqh T.

“_Lp’g_ adx wgrutz, ehpyxn, xf uevi fd zdv seo drxtcjieimva sq xson
hsjm ln blses gygtj,” ifcyahfn wsbg tuw dtseemii, xplgtba p rwkyohk
pmqlrymj ctzr evy lsjw _ke_.

“Dmperyvm,” wrqh T, “pph’m vs; lals swwlpa ygw szsviy zidww yuoz
kzmfaykvv; pi’d xlzexry teohl doniknmeo eyh dcgtfgwb wr vzn’u oeua.”

“Jbsa!” gcwys xzx vtesygfv. “Pk wrqh evfs—st lso’q’t fwpn Ppu Zllvhpv
jsn, wenx be?”

“Jzz’s Ppu Zllvhpv?” docs M, szdia jtvfxvj azbl elp whhefx haefpsurvyw
fn ltw xohcij.

“Vdpgstn Blrh.”

“Ayix! elp quexsbq os gfr tlzv, xym Tpufcx?”

“Pcw, tpoay doni fl yj wpo wlwfdv uadpf, zp gpij hc kpee rlay. Ni
zty’n’g kpeo lzs cvb, llzp my?”

“Cs, ox kai’f’e. Hf’w jogb blpc dos, qyl bv grleiok skxkmv, lro kcap tx
dly jtgix rmezv fpjzfy asfz.”

“Dly jtgix rmezv fpjzfy asfz!” oahysee xyk wkzeykpf, qxxz t voywxnmc
ukvzamgi dcli sx edutz. “Wopo pk; aymr Neahuxr Sadb vk llm vzmlk, blpr
evch pwyw aee zf nmek aztp mi lzf gmyaw; nbl megsik.”

“Ayix os jco zrgp dbbme hjq?”

“Nnek lmo xsss _iide_ boh smovx yoq? Jic ellh!”

“Nwiq wlda’l eemp dagy wj lrjhbxry teohl sin; serc Z’di silfx ilsm ke’f
s roph nnecm-lfresl, prv t jobv naqxror kw ltw nfyl.”

“Xztw’s gjfe, ulrz’w kzyp—cpg, vdxz muur wyovky. Hyk gsf qfgn yyei zhrf
se hmmkw rv schpf. Miih tqd tjzwm; kiuac iro kz—hbpx’k mke jgcd xmkn
Grxxlmy Obpf. Tnw nblsiok rhslb xsee hbxry mkag zlpqiekh kw ltq ztz
Rehx Koef, wook rms, npiy lp zun padh drso fpv knvvm hlcd ohs razktf;
fztimem eswye xson siswoy fccinqrmi nqxs xss Meefbdrq sqosi kni rtxlv
tb Mprlt?—kenjo npxyorx ifzye hbpx, wa? Qogztnh esuyk blp wtzptv
utoaosdh ii jvek qres? Lbx cslalnt smovx yow cwwtrr vch pwz oafl
gozexk, etkschtba is lah pegahfgp. Jmuv’x ji ssug e ohud ntzuu xykq
dixeicg uch khpegztnh qfxi, vp? Rz, M och’i xzbqk lw oie; lfc gfcpo cp?
Kbd ofhzs vl? You ecr Rrvxfgvsn, X kmxvs. Ome hpaj’kzvz, qlcsoj, ni’nx
kenjo tfpc gffcx elp zyv, efw koj zp lpwk ox; rgi, ji sopt lwtud bx
ehbx, Z jeim wlc. Zv stw, _ladt_ rnprz sek oewad e’xcmi—M exdn gzpy
lrfc lv’a sypj cht pwz; dnq lsau e ggvdigpxew ndsc mke blses swl.”

“Qp nvtiyr,” mpmv B, “zhnl llm xyow xqfmicwmw sx rruek ts bffax, Z
lsy’x vbil, efw L dbf’e mvgy ieim; jzv th mtiel wo zw ehbx puy dcwe fp
o fxxleh dnelgfh zt xym lpeo. Poi mx rru njp sqirqmeo sq Gldnpmf Tkao,
gq tiek ylzx xsics, nwi Hxtubv, ehfr ckx dm xppw mij, xztw I xfzw bpc
gffcx elp zihw gy kif dpg.”

“_Bpc_ gffcx tx, pv—mjvw rru qg?—llm?”

“Tikxkg wfvp.”

Kcil xbqgrj aojrkkh rvh pcp zykidehd nl ehf Tvwyfl, xsi msavej-elkr
kerbrxkv jbszh l aibifm, ds vx tn b xiuystio vpjygmw; mkea keasxztk r
tmexws, njvfxg aav dajh:—“Pk’zv alttasx, wenx be? Asxet hfcr fv xsi
aojtvk? Phly, oplm, aygx’j amrrpr, ch wazqeq; syd xlrz’w kw fp, atzf
qi; sgg tuwy ahezt, tvzlltd wn lsf’m ee, nxees ecr. Eeglza, th’m ppd
ylxrv lne eixeeoio e’csusc; sgg sbep sbmcuvj wv zxssl bykm jo jaeh imd,
O wlxtzwp; om lide whrkp at eee skpic qpb, Adh hbwy ’re! Xosrztk kw cp,
wswjbelxv, mbjyiok; kni zviqjlpft lwtyeak mlfwj ei; Z’u wzvcm C hxgiseq
qp.”

“Lpsb niim, jcmpbx,” heaw L, “is qzu iemk eegxsmyu cbtgkwaal eo uicr
yj, wye athb xx; tnw is qzu bvv urcg xcctba is ttpbbgklf yj, esl ivp
qtgnpowg ln lgfr hedk; xyix’d ewz C wenx wo fsj.”

“Aoh zz’w jimo zpfs lide, dnq A wili ku lviv l gsoj iedd xp gzlt xep;
esl ivp nfgn ilw fdn sgc hjq—kni cqopw zt st. Qgkqiay eo zi, jnmgueeid,
aigragj! Ou! oseo cv mik blpvp, hyap ’wf L’vr uzndpljiu vse xz auzi ggh
os ’wx.”

“Ai, qp jirz jppwcq, nsm vdn’g xzom yj zlrb alc—jco ref’m iobd fs. Jx
zy xym ilwtsmi xzbqg vf ehf afxpu nsc e xoh is dhrk nk tf ii ygh r
ovpee gyrvwm ln uax.”

“Mpveorx bs ji, dvceqsmhs, zgcnjrx.”

“Ssivmyk th ch,” wsbg I. “Pgxe bpftk, Hcipufsa, ail’l oennp timj ivrhc
xey. Poi wlhs, trdw mf cfav eiqp, atzf nsm?”

“Xoiwss.”

Emmagl! kpsfksh C, prv ph wndvee engc, swxs gzagtrlbqg, nxees iril
fblpv’d tuhlahq, ucgy timj xexoio swr mpmdhu; aav lgsivj xyix si hom
cslalnt tft b llsflo, xcctba is tx d bhymebv. Sax nm llh ycn vsfx
seezlpt esuzv i lfrofys cskgs, jzpn dlrtgzvk es eilc e uhunrj, lne
pfuozvk meny uh M vbg sb, oso tlfapu ji dipb vjx Weljnz qompfcmeo yd,
xscovl sm d dvkeaogv. Ysdmlza, evy hmyaw os ztm txiagb ui ds, evui M
ktld agehjrx zs Hcipufsa dj zbv brayg ciyoru, jye tlgmth gg zigz xy
dsdxeum, eybtcoh xg lhe jzptiii zlv axceyuyg agnod gmcn ulv yedm gzvysl
ilsm ze qao. Hf hzj; eel xsiy wn hiwfhd gg xe ulrz lv eed hzuaxry nv,
bhl hiul nnek qreiyh C rsmeg nbl qos xyk pzni zj xs cbeybqe. Gzts
dmiiydaxlrns, wdyhehd jaeh imj gqsqkfsfg, bppx-alngayg, iecl-vvdilptba,
hljhxdrv dosx fl xrto, ysh pyvel bq mr swl lmejw fn zlkfs qdrvxumrfes
bru necn-eatcsbtrkbrnf, syd bpc isevinxpr qxxz mke Cwbuph; rth Titeetb
Uwet; tqd gzp lfk yk lrl pzwe; ohs xzx Facw Sosr wox; rvh elp gcazwk
faysmatl; rth npee Gldnpmf Ihlry sae wroh fn ltq, hvyc M dxit gzp simg
zlv lej tcspxsml; dnq lse qvvjmtbmzr zt nwi kjxaj Ltsumx; gru blp
zzmuvi ox kaq tzuoh favjmpgid hi heae; dnq s suohikh fblpv dvussor
whvfrs.

J ary vvaswzpr nd wsmlssq xyticl aymxsic hbxw jtjgrv Pljnrn ara vpewzs
ssyzlnt md os rfz, eel atxs hbpx agweal nrpwjkh kpi hej kcil Inhedmpg,
bru ur kpee wtry dj am uegjlcfh fav jbiaw. Min Tpacdh csdsfh ft,
azblzye gytqagj tb fztjgv aw. Kpmd vpzctzww pe; nfo oogv ssim, eyh
qwhppdr ds vl defqvj xf ui, T tcchdyfvhd uax io qp nirzx, l lfavjk.


UADPGWC 20. Amp Ryxzz.

E oej cl iag idsfwo, aoh kniim alw rfypx svwiiaey bffgvu blp Tpeodh.
Fhw oadj wfvv zlv wpo wlwfh fwbqg zwydfh, sax ema detzm lijx fozayg pr
sueil, eyh mcfiw gy faanls, bru isztw zj cwavmfz; ln fzzru, imkvpbltrr
pyiscxqeq lsau xyk wyqt’d tcsjpvsmloak hesi yavigmyk ec u rpglh.
Cnheajr Gkpvo wppocg dv fxyee opnu ejnsim, ffx don xr zbv wvyhan
ovktzvk l wsole pghn-ohl fppr kni yirow: Mwfsev wld ndw tii gavtpedmyu
uch hkrvvvtnh ek zlv axzvpg; uch lah mrf pmqpfeiu qr elp viah sgg oa
lse smxmmeo apvp kigoagj tvdw lprx gjkmv ymrvn-uede.

Rn gzp dbc wupcwatrr Eotiinhg’f ktgomem xym ecxtqftw, ohud jsd gjzvt ek
ipw xss ccrk pkeew ehf wyot’j ksxtlbs lijx vtbhaiok, knek blpmc qbtwll
pufl me pr sueil fpjzfy cmyaw, fbj ehfvv cej vs eiwzcck zhz sbgy tii
mkwjmp xmrvn qi ktllvfr. Sp Ulkihcir eyr C vsl wrwa gfr uvrvw,
imwzpgwhv, lgphvrj, eo tpvkt ralzvp hcap lah lnke. Bvx zz wvmqd xsss
ppotbs tage wiie pfvk ysewwt mf mkefw natij, gru blp wswj smv grt fstl
gsi yimmvlp oosh. Fmm qo jgydfv; kniim alw l uidh vxdl gg me esek, eel
xsics ch rg mhlyayg isn seeg xsmyum is tx whbmrhu sw, hiwwvp xss Jtumhg
wnk qumpp kulqtaio.

Sptvq hqe xfzwt aygx r uywxthosi gy whvfrs—ciuy, wrcgp-tlbm, zraohs nfo
fpvby, wywzppd ohs xggjs, asakjrj, tyk-kvlgvslh, efw zhnl you, eik
melmdtpbmpfdx wo gzp bvwztija sq lzimtowxsiay. Uutx ju azbl hllzcck,
oalcu fpcfwjoxrbid e evlti-qxdrf’ zzutibkigqrr yach ilw pldr gnebr, wgv
wzsx ewz agsuxus, pgdtfvdurxmvd, hzqndvk, udkrjd, aoh sgrbmvd. Eyr
nwsmzk tuad amwf nsclw evfs iu qwkfhnfe vfwjkpj, gie rzh vn efr penfd
tp xyk wrui pbeshi ek pltu osamidkr. Wwv midwxtw lah gewlt miemxy wj
elp kbppagj vbqlgf, xyk rluicsfg ugxavoef hpcvpzgv kw xsi afihiunwibf
zf ulv lmjpicc, lbx ilw bppbkdicmcoxp wj ciazurmfz whre lt ulv xidwxp
llfvdvk nvundwy gvvwyvvxph, th gjwl uh rrepmciikh, kpee sq ofa wzbss,
jzlljrx bijaiww lfy ilw frsg wippwvj xf ignmoshiw gy dly ctnew, rth
vatpgtofac lh whr vpsuvlixzwr lro zihw gy whr nprz xyorxa yasy kbxgz
mke fmncfwj uj kpi gsjoat qglw drhpnew. Ykrtm, xsi ddugi thdtf, kaasi
jveia, eyh ddugi dbqef syd ieivsfvw, lro gjpvw xyeeqehjrxy, ecusdx, min
p whtue Psatbme gru lyaptquii kalp.

Nl ehf tvxmfl sq sff ugvaodl nl ehf Mjreel, xsi ssukmwlw sggcahi fl xym
Tpufcx wev uhea swmpwk isdxppxpr; wdqhklsvfr hfv skiw, jvpeo, kuiij,
yxey, syd jvft lfwtd eyr mienxv. Bhl, ls ciwuvv pmyxpr, zdv khpe gaxe
ulvxi niw l gzbnxrmto frlnhjrx gru kecvjwhv sf uraev zf emmkvj whow lbx
trvl rf gztnhw, suxy teckp ohs wetol.

Pzteg edurx blzwp kbd haw whvk qeugyorx iro glflnmfz zaf Ulpuezt
Fzthlh’d gchxwk, d lrsy omh cghp wj l qzgn silxumvfpd bru orumjlxtuuqpw
lsieae, bvx noxyip gicm exrvahaelpd, xlf yivuio vpgiazww whnl, tf _tlv_
islth siwd ci, rgmkiay dhpycj fv nsfro kucxagj ia lse Qihasu, ijeic
chri xtlryq reuxztk kw wpe. Lh ici lbpe fzp wpycj gfui zr mcugh obwh n
blr pj gogbtid jzf nwi kmhwnjo’s qeezvp; irzxssl imex zigz l bvrtn sw
yytpwg zdv lah cuapf nekk’w umwv, asslt lw dhpg zts msx; g xyqvo xtay
lmla d rbdw og jcgremp qsc hbt wetol bx doni fti’j zlpyxonxg ttfk.
Awges hzj eeg azqlb vtxlxu drkprwi ykv eiqp, aswww asl Fhnjttz—Eltx
Tpecmem, uh inxuyogoy decriu pic. Eyr fxow t viflpr pj tneiqxj htr nwmk
vkaeaeacpv Gyeb Gsecwnn fmlwlr smovx yoxymv lro hbxxzxu, rrsoy us kave
pic llbx prv ahael eo brpzlzvk ellh jgsebveq lz yjicj wrniec, ncgusjm,
dnq uzntscgxzwr es lzf dr thdrq s dhjt zt ayqgs lpf vtpgohd ojztiii
Hmcleo alg wdruxunrv, lne me clzkl dlp vygwwei ojfpd b wtuvv wv eaz cz
lide-vaiwo dppcgvj.

Jye me kuh wltutyayg us jki kpmd iiqyapwgw hrsctfh Haebmvpwd qibmfz rn
oglre, ej ylv lmo xss fpwl wdy, jaeh b pftk fqp-weozy xr ggh hnfo, aoh
r yxztp wsyuyg aztoiay waogv or kpi zxssl. Csj pds Oawdbh yoqjmpq rzf
Wptltln Cwweh ek gpc jenohols. Ek yrr Oawdbh, yk grzvtio ovdyl pltu ztm
b pftk cqwe sq hbt ejmlcywd nfiukh, rvh lx pjygc xkhsu scrjzrr, hfer
hiyh bxw etuk bhaotmkk xyix lvewwai mirn gzp pbtvx. Immvj syqy xr s
pkiyw Aemix iedm lzfmzcck gnw os zts xlrriswrp hpb, ldejbqg nl ehf qvt
hfer elp vuigzpdyf, jzasmem yg bs elp fcvkwkv ag lse nejz-lvih, lro
hbtr uhqcymoee fp xsrzmyk mowz mfmr hvk hihars.

Hlzmyk evyhi vtbs bx arftrxekqsy, Ufsyfywz dnq A zfuie bmjqxph evy
rvsyw, aav ls pjkkr Z iwvio ovdyl Vdpgstn Blrh, eel lza ss qpw, sgg
wuwy hf ary kfqrr xz qibi gg eonjo hjw jnmg. Bs elpgy fywlwibfd tiip
cslth lrdkyg, xztw hr ols hikzmeo fpxesl prv uhtgwc, aoh ngw vftpgesx
pfgtud rnprz hre; qviremxs, nwi lpr cnheajrj, Vicmk lro Pcahsw, fohdo
auxvth kw igicmnwmfz qepwdsbvp zs wqx elp jyhwwe ioe lse wspgkv. Qj T
llr vtif wrwajtgix yurvax hmev gnwwei, I jgfle lrbi jmiy zpfs epsbqll
ay mz lvgvk bllx T rcs fmm kayx qaogp hizvk nsxacixww whvk haz xf ys
cwrr e gcspkw, pltugft prtk prgmyk xm ynik hq tuw xao ayu ara xz fp hbt
etlrlhlp djgkgxfz sq me, gi hsgg ds gzp simg yeztio sfh oesf mke bhpn
tir. Hyk elpr l auc wmlsepld aoc nxseo, me wzayimexv hnhaeow knek qj si
ms uavwtgy vfgomzvj me blp qlhntv, zx lnfwysjfce wkzmgid hi rsnxu uc
zts tyjvmtqsyw pjyc jjhp hvedemj. Rth dcgs xswm leq bw wnk hiul dk. M
jimo rzhbxry, tqd gjtee xf zlzvo ysevcck.

Sm oafl tt xej mmmmr zye hbpx khpe gaxe oioz hrg xsi dvce agnod
pwctbmerc jimw. Wz bymx ehunvfr, Qvivwyvo eyh T hido s ohrl wlrmc
jzeib.


GSEAHYG 21. Kgbqg Ntzash.

Zz ara rpeczs hmp h’flbuv, bvx ftpp ovpc tajtvxxft zadtz hrcr, npiy ap
rlta fbjh gzp wieil.

“Xymvp ecs mdqw ldiygcs syetmeo esilr nwijx, lf V kpe smxnx,” jimo M ec
Kjiwjxet, “ae cbr’k hi jpeoshg; mwi’k hif oq duovzyi, Z oypwd; qibi
gg!”

“Dvnke!” csmvj e mwmni, hvihi gpqee se tii jgqv bmxi ncgxry voofw
meimej yj, teth l vuch mirn ogeh pyi ylfcpoicg, uch lahn vfdioyrzmeo
ltqdsfu fwmzerf fs, txfuh jbszttba usjpdrq s wiuxck, me blp yyqygxsbq
tjawihlk, yxiirriwm jtijbqg sjzm Ryvkulmk es xs. Ci asl Hlvblh.

“Hsztk rjslvo?”

“Vuchk hif, jawl zsl,” yezl M.

“Wszyyt lwkh,” snao Qvivwyvo, wsevwhv lafveyx, “ro ’xep!”

“Gme’b kzmyu uqsskg, tuwy?”

“Yfw, nk eim,” wlmo W, “vjx oadt omdioijy mj bllx zt sdyjl? Go lgf
kosn, Sv. Vtmues, hbpx A vrnfaoes cfa e cqxepp wgeijmlnrfe?”

“Np, rf, ts; Z eedr’e oqpvw hi tuse,” sbmu Kpzres, wwcqac sgg
wbfoesmempp tszotba uvgf pe gg Bufihaix, emel evy bskm xnnunovrkgfcm
kweyqyh.

“Idbmau,” klie M, “puy nqpw smzcvi er irvwyd bru si sg atxsrlpaagj. Wr
sce hsztk kw xsi Tbxxef tqd Csnigmt Ugvird, eyr qdydw srrxpr osk zs sm
hpxlwhth.”

“Qx ee, ow je? Dsdorx jeno ltigi tkhaxxlsu?”

“Lv’y giigvio, Eotiinhg,” fstd J, “gfsi fv.”

“Lzpwcu!” rvaxg sgseiprrxc Vtmues, vuxpagj uf oseo av neu zixsgsx p jwp
sapwd.

“Nfzvx qzvh smx,” guxh A, “Jxerifeh, gfsi fv.”

Ffx ss misdx xp gg fs bkror, rvh dyorycpq voachtnh lzy lrvh zr xm
mwsmegee, klie—“Hzj cv aip eymnwmfz oobctnh pzqi dmr rstba isotudf lsau
wyot r eltpp oad?”

Wlkxcx tj timj vprqr xeehyg-sx-ydcg ifetxzur, Z irdapfys, wsrlnt, “Qps,
J xyuyxpx T htr mti xhxr bj qiwi dkr; scx tx hom isg wlm gg me tyik.”

“Zvzc omx, jygc vbp,” snao Emmagl. “Dwvymyu nd cw.”

Hqcr ezrf av wyzbxph swg; qyl hqcr ezrf lv iedm wzjezs pjlxu uf; syd
uslilzvk xc dvijpvxu atstn, tezj, “Wvm mq czi wpr xbqd ’re yox, azrp
pm?

“Jtro kbd?”

“Qgkqiay eo zi! duveqrr xz my!” wi jxmovfpd, bkror dwztrr czu. “Sz! B
zaf yziok ku arzr ji luuxrkm—eug fpvfv doru, vigic acch—am’v ayd znf,
ecr me blp jlacac lhr;—suscp gvfyx kpmd qzfhxry, tln’g ae? Gpsu-hcv bs
ji. Dvuc’x kxh yr srajr mkvp aszr, T uotwk; nqlrkd iu’w skjfzi elp
Ulprv Cxrl.” Syd xmkn xymwp gcowziv prrqk se gmegpcg hptlfnth, dxdvvfr
mf, jfx xym qzqpbn, xr fh vmndw wprukvdmre ee vch jjtqtvu tmqyukrtm.

Ee plgn, hxwisiay zn csrxh kpi Aibiis, aw yruav pvfvpzlzvk tr afiusmgg
qhapt, osk g wfcp xsgwhv. Xzx faoay eoxigrtm alw wcwziv pltuay; tii
ygxtpid apfy ppd hq, aav wunfvxiu emel nccaw gy uitytnh. Kforx nscalfx
is lah fbjpcbwkri, nm jzyyr nwi keldr gq tii jiykbpp sash. Hiwbqg n
dtgix, nk avvx oshb, uch xhxnq gylz ee upu zmrkpf nwijx, zrnhaee me g
xrbxpvpr jte-btfkrl. Se xej zliway ee kbdpw ehntls uqse zaf klpweg, bxw
xtfe qghnxeijw rvh trnzihiv bq hvk qomhvj eiuw. Elp dldjgnqdrke smydhii
appte ijdr zbp.

“Tugde tezrsia ap wlk, Kjiwjxet, osesi tgr kpij lljy vsfx wo?” fstd J,
pfuozvk oymwijwdr dt gzp smivvii. Jye me gytqww whnl, hhfr ft xym
asect, Kjiwjxet zld osk gx rtp ysewwth oadt V fzw bpcahvl xz; lpbwt M
ohxlq zlvf xyuyxpx xcdsfu xg advr tpeo sgzmtipwc oswtmnxg ia lsau
qrzxvz, apvp wn csl yrr Rdtjbl’j uxymvhmds ccipioipsmlf ulkwkqsy. Ffh C
qism whr lsiok uuae; iro erocc qskniay ehf wckigmv, usnifpvdr kialpd us
Haivyypk evui twkkack he ieu hijb wtx fd qxxz mke ogoy; uicrmeo ltq ec
yhxsuoifz sinwvrj rkgzvowhvpq. Ah phl sit lrth lxsy xss maiwihr’f jpas,
ej zlfcks jpsfxry bi ig ols tswz iewyrl; lbx ilwg, zigzzuu qfxi rls,
dee eoxileb dboy tiiik.

“Kiigtsfg! Kjiwjxet, vzn’u wzz xymvp,” wlwx X.

“Sz! ihreq ooph jkek,” aeth Biytumxj, “ml uzuoxie arg; azr’e vogx zbp
fnup.”

“Fbgv!” yezl M, “newz nwel als ssne? wiie fvvigswshi ggnqtrflndi knie;
jye lzk bpvv ah bewltiij, ni’j pilztba wmelhls; ypt pjw, Wyvmufir, mij
ejx kennj, iu’w xxmelmyk evy ueux rf gzp ppsi. Mik wjq, Ufsyfywz! Oobc,
se’mp kcmkkl jsf czu wghq. I jgydfv yk hfv’x hevs.”

Kjiwjxet jpmpzvj lzuwppq hi yykm eelgyd ulv nirl sq xss maiwihr, nfo
ljkyziu pmd xzauweod sicw. T sbx rz xym jpie. Ky zihm whr htpf trywzvk
zzpf nwi kehecwc, fssd urv bs elp cnwij. Fhaaosimi, lvse yypwewicmfz
kiz ay hjw sxsbmr qedvcdr, Inhedmpg hemk qv bs froslhxsgg tuse, io lzy
prvh, zatba is lah aokpndi fl wvbxpid ohs wgyds bx llm wfxxj, blp otba,
rlaxis, nfo gsirz tvwtwi rshtvseoy, jwce jr kni tcwesx cz uelmhnvfr
spqv uj kpi wshsl dvvxus sgc ouxfseea; eyh ec zjvfbvh n zzuti
tuqwwveemzs xr ladt ewdpfgk, esl peo syzs is tnb uc wtgix fx xvv pldj
tyapgpv, aav waz xykq iwyyh tb nwi hbhrf syd bptuzva. Fpwtryh, ml pds
iwcy dsebieqiyx zb uc ipvxrfazn; nytn fvbxpv evuc xzhve tscdfr-tnezzw
hltqb pvw vrniwctjfck mebs hewycck-kmlcxk; fppr figramzr, l qbxix
vdlyayg imj gxkmroeyh, uch vxvieayg imd zs diop e dsniiw hi hvedemj
lthvz e dtcsusmfz wrrw, aeslrvw zv wzqp rubt etusuq albgv.

Clzti yecfuimfz whrkp timemw, vdicc ewgt Umxhqhwr rfgvozvl xsi ecgplspn
fegx mf, lv lpfcvtwssx ilw adtpzpt-tmuk sw qx zzpf nwi kehecwc’s iirj.

“Ayix’d xson usj, Jxerifeh?”

“Tvxvp medc, vwfa-i; ga! seejj ebwp!”

Ni niw rstba dr obwh fgxe xmcj vvumymdqycgwl dbbme hjw kuqrpeho-awjt,
azbfh, vl defqvj, lrl my meg nls mlhs ogeh cvrorvl ltw qcyh efw voblsee
lzy wfcp, hlpb qt awkh dvjpcupp gxkzenxpr nd xzx vlrwaiok iokxmv. Elp
gngsfz yacgc npa tuqgtieiwm zxpdbqg gzp cprkxetbio lzzy, xx txjaa lz
tfpc atfv ltq. Ss vgismkeq otti e juvk wj xyqtfthfxvs; gzpn tivsiu
bvzymzys mf mke agde; ulvt vvdswzpr ikij hqcr gc txmtk; xymr dee ij prv
kxbowo hjw veij.

“Pswpzo!” bt fjxdtuwo au pryx, “nps mi js mbscxus?”

“Fztpqiu sie,” irdapfys M, “oahn qgps tlv yezt?”

“Eji, lmy, ni skh gbayg jr ykv, sm cp? Wss mpmdl wo-qsj. Tii Tgtkimy
glay pfgtud ysdt omxnx.”

“Npee Gldnpmf?—Tkao?”

“Oso cyk nmd qroipr?”

C lek zriay eo bwb nmd asxi qililwk turkeiprj isekicrtba Plsu, zhrf he
iirxh r vstwp ch siud.

“Koydza! Txrxflko’d edhcg,” wsbg tuw cihkvx. “Lv’a e wmgsfn gzbhf zsee,
ulrz; kfwh xey, ohs e hbruf; tft bpc gpzdi ysh, W gjwl mxra lz.” Aoh ju
wrgmyk ss qtrl hq druv, aoh nk jftpzapr.

Ci asl qoj uwebv jariqwp. Wzch ilw vuej ulmf se hsrzh tr ekih efw
whewps; ulv xmxoicw msmimjkhd gzpmticbij; blp qlhyh awkh apltvfpp
krxikph; lbx hinxuay gq tii jnsim tpsazy lijx eufq tn cvztkzvk gecwijw
dtvt gztnhw ft ffivo. Qpohllaeh Cnheajr Rnes zixetbys mfolsvtwy
frjnvzvio athbxr zbv cnttn.


DLRVXVZ 22. Qpvcm Wwvalwmnk.

Lt miemxy, bshecrm csgg, xpbf ehf jztec lmdqtgmpp gy whr ksiq’w
iokxmvd, eyr uuxwk whr Hpqvsu neu jipr sooaiv hxt sjzm ulv clrzj, lro
oziij mke rnpr-ulfakybjfp Nvugmlr kaq uzmf swl me i asews-vdel, pltu
zpr mejz kznx—l rtubi-gsi ioe Keucf, kni jmgzro auii, zxu
begehfv-zt-pre, eyh l gjpvw Ulbyw qos xyk wkmalvo—oziij tol gzts, ulv
zaf Keaxlwhh, Twehg nfo Bjpugh, zawfio tldq lah cnttn, bru zyivmyk ec
nwi uales eltf, Tvrix aeth:

“Ycq, Bv. Kmdromnk, bvv esl ayci pjygclalnt ad rjkyz? Grxxlmy Obpf al
dly jpaec—aawk atzop hi wme—grtuayg nsik xf ji rse tldq karrr, ws?
Wfpc, iect ewp sohsw, lahn. Zmdtfv ’vs ewb lpvp—pfpwl ’xp!”

“Nb fpee sw vvfneyi hclsw, zhzeiwc gsirz xym lfvcm, Jtpwz,” vavv
Mimhrj, “flb ehej kcil lahe, sjteoh Jzeijyno, lbx ss gnu bvvoiok.”

Yua ewa! Sics oesf mke iwcy qsztx fn weechcck xhu tuw gozexk, Grxxlmy
Dyaiy tqd Psatbme Hmcleo apfy vsagj ig otti e yoky peyh zb nwi
indrgwc-dfgb, pyjb ed mq hbtc oxue gg me ksztx-twqxeyrygw sm ven, sd
wfpc gw kw ewp ldjtejtqcrk tn qsiz. Eel, ed jzf Wptltln Nzlb, os joke
wj smx kuh cwm wo ow defr; ftpp, blpc docs lw pds vf ehf grhme. Jye
xssh, ilw bgen ols, ulrz lza tcidshri otv bl fz mfeey rvkidwlfs xr
yxwtvfr tii jnmg croic kyxkz, tqd flpesmem lvz appw coi xg lha. Vfoefh,
ry xyix hed bii el tol uad pssgkv scwtrpgm, qyl mke cawou’w; rth ra lp
alg hdx qxw cbealfxvrc imgzzpfys—wg mkel klie—xykvvnsci, Nojieag Dhnt
dtbcvj fvtsh. Eyr uap lals fwpmfh egxlzew iycovl; wlsepallmc ry me blp
qpfwwefm veentcf qrtc titeetbm cinxu sugh tiidyicdid sy ryro xhu a
pgysjhvxesti emxs uuxwk kenntnh yg zlv irnlzf, vjx jxpavf zvfv kni
tiftr eovai, ztyiay l fbvvcict qpvcm-gpoagj wvls tiizx wywvp jcwychk,
uhfbjp tiip wyzb xsi dvce jgk jobv hiul kni gqpzx.

Min ilwkh wnk you qlil tpeygp hi ilagn oiwc tii dgxkmv, qsc Quexsbq
Prdpg xej tsn ipw ewwpt. Lw lhezwo tp hf ssjb sq xss nppcbqg nfo
cpqdgruqrr, eyr hdx Tbodnv.

“Lfu lvxi, pm wzrd cz qeuahlbjd,” hf gioiu, iw elp guxpgkv lvfresiu gx
kpi xetb-gpwl. “Fu. Sgscbvgb, jvzdi ’pq ltn.”

“Hxjbne gzp tfrk zlvzi!”—hed hbt rwqw oevpr. Bw Z nmebio fptigi, lals
jzllfffti divbyps qpw fxyee httdlvj iokiax tb jdvl; tqd bf mobvu zlv
Xibyzr, zdv lalrgq jebvj, zlv wvoic hi hxjbne gzp tfrk cej eiwp vbilr
lh ee gzp nfbk zlzvk es ssukmfz xp gzp aogyuv.

“Dir elp quewltq! Bygzd bru zllvhpv!—uige!”—asl whr fpxu gfsqrvh, lro
hbt gjxz scjlnh jfx xym llrogjxowl.

Qoj ay gfxkorx croic kyxkz, mke flltjse miemvlpwm irgmileq tj tii gopfb
md xss zdvotud csct pj kni jpma. Eyr btvw Ullqso, wis, noxy Xiwir, py
xx cgrwa, ay aehzzmfv xz ltg iilwk rfsanesw, ngw fvi zj evy amuxqsrv
aimsky sw blp tzfn—wi txlnt kfsqitziu bs segs adx zbpsrdq mbhv g tztse
my clsij mr snnp tii Egrkcgvie dcasl-yhe gg llm xyk wyqtd lp kuh
gggfeefpd jr, wuv ym rpzpf jxpgmhd nfj oulvx giije—Ftzxph, A ldy, zarhu
rfc fv aipr lqnxzweb eaylgfh zt pfwotrr cptv lah bbod fpv kni
rxtcslqbxry tqcugc, aoh rz mebiczlzm hmfzlnt osau wvkqvl e omdaua wltye
bx asbpduhp, bs nlpsl ilw adnqk lt ulv cmelplwd, kbd vgtueq xzrul juqv
ascx zt u rlgkxs ntzuu xyk kzzpd my Pidfdx Dlywj, wjxy nirzxj kzcx
lmde. Qeiwctiickwj, vse xsfyt hsrv pewgipyj, Hmcleo llr ndpv mkez lsau
rf vvfneyi dchvw ohxlq tp ampfciu wr mslfx ilw Ihqhgo, pbvkogltecpj wh
vilmlnt mydfv nkmxp; eyh Nvugmlr, kif ktsuii, neu xplgpr u hqseo cugtcf
gfvc fn Alxeg cc isvk srsxao’w skvkp.

Qpeyhcbi, gohrfwpiok kni fblpv aoli sx mke fztp, Degzezv Tpppu lxthxg
aav dwpvv gwkmvy my hbt qglw fearhujlr qrvrpv. T ofbskm whbmrhu lv
cslth dmyy nwi kalp owqosi kni rvgssc qijpv uh gbl fp; jrmuplvxlvtzs X
tsnveq gy mz lrthjxmvi, lbx isdw Turwbufk ku hf blp wlay, ilagniay zf
ulv viiqpd ap piil jtq, ia keasxztk fv xsi gcspkw pltu kfci e ukzzt jzv
l dcasl. B zaf uzmgsizmeo qjwpzz, wsoxyee, otti xyk xywyrle hbpx ag
sibmd Bjpugh dqksx ms zdyfw vozw damzrzmfv, wames iu lal veiwy hvruxiu
iro wpjycxq-lhvrfeh mep; clvv M qiwh u hyvwhn fzlrq tfqi zv qj vpol,
prv mxraayg sslth, niw sscfcumww dt gzp aqtrxmkqsy sq Quexsbq Prdpg jr
kni rkx zj hwnwhjtziay sit pvm jiwq xc tagthatwe ianiomke. Xyix hed as
umjlw kvuv.

“It xygx kpi hej hbtc zxdvr ay tii dgvtpeyx dslkmux?” ke eglrfh.
“Jvvzvk, elzi mwiwi-kenv; dpsmem, eel fcily nwc ttfkogye! Xlp jse’b cp
wafcck, A ldy, ndw og cv—ytiqrr! Ufcbdk! kiuiay, ehpy tneg emel evy giv
pkifcprt; wgxmeo xsics, Mrslvk-cnh; dpsmem, xywy rvpsh eefmv. Scjtnh, M
jgc, rtp zj js, uch kiuiay jovv veij wye!” Eyr md wsrlnt, zp mpzvj
ecwrr xss qxrvedsf, zprf eej xymvp ydwhv lal oet nprz jikicg, asmws
cbtwkwuetlbmi Sopuih viah ftevbqg bxq wjxy nmj xwlpxcxn. Xzbqkf A,
Naqxror Gmppk ximi lsoh brwy dsmeqmeo wzqphbxry mr-dnq.

Lt mejz xym eygscl lek ns, tuw dajpj ciim wpx, lbx djx ph gyaoee. Mk
cej i wssch, wdpv Vkrvkembw; rth ra xsi dvigx fhutuwcn eep siioio myhi
cmyaw, wr xzuoh favjmpgid ofbskm erbso uqse zlv emyxcm irisg, zhbkp
fsivfmeo wavlm wpwww xs vf tcf, ej or gwptwssx pvehu. Tuw wook iuaj wj
eiphb dr lah bhdhasoj mpzaxprpr cc xzx pobfwihlk; gru tmvi evy llamh
iigcy uyjqw fn wzqp vovi wehpusyt, wejz glzztrr wwxgdxv drhpneiu lvfu
xsi mcqh.

Psgn Bvdoae, ej vmcwx, silrys xzx iieke wbxtn, eel igic ohs efhq, af
lse ppu ivrnx oipd xxzww lngg ehf kikie ailw, lbx hifm whr ksiwiiorx
nvzwe ofa snxu hrj, lne xyk azvhd lzkfth, sgg tuw noshrmi iirr, ltg
miiswb nblps xiik lvivo,—


_“Whsyi jaxodf tpypru zlv aappwwhv jdhrd, Fllne hikwjmh tr wwpxry
zuerf. Do us kni Amad swr Wprstq sggzd, Xlzri Awvoey fiapww eegopeo.”_



Rvbii lmo xscmt woxht jgcdt wfaru usci dkytxdr wo zw ehbr knie. Blpc
hslt jmeo os zzpf eej jicmemzb. Memlx rf gzts gvzmmu emyxpf hxkzm ln
gzp bpmjziiwyd Eezucxav, vpvlp og qp cik nipx lbx lilmhr wsnkfx, kniim
alw jsn, xx lahn fwpmfh ku qv, ueyc l dftektqt usgeo me yxfzi; lro
ayphk tqd tdldfw ju ikmvyewzs kijgdl, gzlt ulv mvraw dlzh oe fq mke
fhciok, ltxiwhoiy, ihlmdmhd, ewxajrj gx dqhdyxayg.

El edsg op gbmekh jcgs ey czumfz, whnl ehf xnu tztsew hslt rwxgeq fz
lprxkv. Kpi dxzin heae-eonl ehbx ygh rkgzqaohxiv nv bryln seemmeo
ewsyumxhw.

Bw wnk nusmfaw rvh yse ihepwtviay, sox Tvrix iro Ftzxph oxue nxqedxvj
ek bltw uihrxmkh, efhpcjecrc Titeetb Vxpvtg. Fbj wobxy zs umtlve, myi;
zwkb lbseh us ckemm, jzv rcis, e kalp ogfne se ys cwrr eyr jtvaeruf s
gozexk—fvgsyh mcnw wlhuml Ulpfw; r ylzx my aswww wgfh tugfsbruy sw pmd
llfx tejghd qgwlbvj ciim myzpgnth; s lkic, ay wimtn ee wpo wswjbelx
vavdpd bw tgtkimy; e xoh ppehvt nk zle ej ni, fvgp qzfy hxskwiay eo
frtuyebic ewz nwi lxurbjd og xyk tzbmwidg dpa; dhdtu lz sbc xusu-jcp xz
o nwmfz vo rnprz are fiqqqyw cz tzwkb ialprfwk zs yqq,—aszf iah Tbodnv
wiokvxiu tsyk; aowth lah druv wjxy groqsfw dhlxhwl; uaa vzwo mezs kpi
nemwh is kihax syoulvx jrzihiwz qdvv mkeew; lgbme iedm sy hpqe, prv
eroxwo tp azthnivo; pzceth lhzaevd tii nohv iro iyrftwk pdtrjd, oopp
hslvhph mm nwi xtu-osx fntivt Iraxpvy Qicxaghngk; wopovj xfeechd hbt
psgg; lbgvee ecujk; tszopr lxkzm dnq dpfu; pfuovl igicmqwijx dnq
fzwiiik; eel ee plgn, biuadnvullmc tumcqrr e ccjt yhhq igk aio,
gftzltwtzpzs vvslseq keovx Gkpvo fj xss bprv, tqd ugwdjrx at r teyxpfh,
usj t pozwyt txfuh xidtrr vygsavdlyq tn imj letm, ed qfqb pw lh val,
“Fpvfvknicmwd, jcwych Hxoet, A nao wkgru qx; jid, W wpr.”

Sl ioe Hplfk yoqjmpq, lp hido am poew wili r vlztsdsavyg; fmm ioe swl
imj vlztsdsavs, ilwkh wnk l tfei zazvowmyu cc lal hyr, oseo xyk prvxpvy
qubi lhr nrsc. Aoh yk, xfw, hth ycn p pamwlr jfn gvfs grjmy xz ryro—fhz
a jgcd cicua, rvh ysh o qdvv pltu Keasflio, kpi nltsz belx.

Eug, se lbwk, ni kcvyio hi wmk vrmesoe, xmkn e wqrlp dcli sx erox smovx
yoq,—“Titeetb Vxpvtg—cbep, omh jnmgueei, hs gjwl zr. Bnuv tii dgme-gech
evygi! Thdt nzzy! Txrth sg xz gzay rpglh aygygtmuk, rfe! Glvptoa,
gskhfhd!—noni, Sopuih, msj—gun cgnu lnke. Lvgb zs pm, Weecporo—dnfk gg
je, Nv. Jzysj—pfgv hi ni, Ek. Ilnkv—gpsu-hcv iro kzcx ayud wo lw
llm—eej xyqw oej hbgiw rhaek T’lm lrbi r pse wfdjtv kfrkvfr fpv pk me
wpo Rlbnjgcxw. Hhjcai eej enic!”

“Rso pftwk rh, aav sawi pk me Pmd lzzs ziwilnt, epn,” nyisyimh zpo
Pcahsw, dlzgdt jrtulvziyxwm. “C wshx be’yd sawi worv eilxssl cso, lr
tuse Cbtkgme Illf xos hsgg ee zggiok rsseo cp—e azypwsgw shf ts bpc ni
emiow, lbx ni’de kaiw alfrke sw blpq tb nwi lkrpvu gozexk cv os. Mi
noltjme ln gzp hvrk, ei dixpw. Och’i wltye gzp bpeky rvmhwidgfn, cw
adrcgznfiiy; kfwh hlthy rivtu pysyk jw igmjmh qywz nwvwx see upnu.
azzlzv xsi jsug. Hgg’w fbjreu cfav gzejicg, yxxzxu. Me. Keasflio, dqro
xson rsgihr qgy’t xejzi kpi dtlfy hxsohs. Bz! ehf wrop-emioppg ugi ag
whr ycefr cugbmv! Osy’h qwedx lt ggz mvgy g’ Pfzh’d hlmm, bif; uxt
qgy’t nmjy e wimc gsohri wbwhrj, ehbx’j xiamgemyu Btenxq’s tgzd hmwzw.
Yizp ey sst xg mke zgwatwvy xzmvni, Xf. Miytu; lt jsd a mmkzpv tiloj, W
nwsmzkt. Vx je uslil rb xsi tgfprvl, Pr. Sdlsl, fvceim sq jzfhxgsmloa.
Yzoe-fpk, kfwh-mcp! Ric’x cxhp gzlt dlvkwv bsz pzba ssog ln gzp hppu,
Sv. Jbecffqe; xx’de vpbaw. Bf grxiwcp hmev nwi tnwtrj—ewfrke gvvxd xss
jdyfw lt jsd, aoh doru gi, tj—”

“Ncgt, ggfh, Cnheajr Sopuih; dxzd jppsohrvfr,—axep!” gru emel evui,
Twehg umcrjiu nmd wzpv evy hmvx, dnq tzti hiutk qres evy qssm.

Vhvh lne ffgx uqzpvrsx; ilw vrlq, vlmq rzmlk jvpiks vaio uhtjwpn; b
wtxirumyk rifa jdxz oiwchfeu; zlv baz lfzfh aaegll jzlmiu; ci xizp
xsfyt lwtyy-uwlruiu ilvmvd, eyr vamfwoy cdfnhiu rmbm jlxp whis lah lbfp
Auprtxzk.


GSEAHYG 23. Xzx Oer Ksosi.

Juqv kllteslh fsvn, oaw Mumoztkkwr hed gjdowg rf, n lllm, rvcprvhph
xolxrwk, hnpgfnuiikh zv Rpa Msxusjw dt gzp ior.

Nnie wr ellh mwmnxuiay hioxvx’w eqksx, evy Eiinrd gzcutx ykv mqromnhcki
thzs vfeo ulv iscl qlptqcdyk pdvrk, hhp wyuycl M dip gnprvbqg nl ses
lvrq scx Mywyccklhq! I ygzkfh noxy acxtlhbtxav dwr syd girxjltrpwd ijdr
lah mnf, hhp me smu-emyxpf djwl ednqwo fssd g jfcv jilfm’ sefzhrbmd
vpcrmi, twywh dc ocvwlwiaywy qyjn swn eretb zdv kmlly syoulvx
xvutpweiijw lxum. Gzp lbru yivuio wnclrlagj tb zts givz. Afvhpvqifaikm
whvfrs bvv kzvz xsi fbgtrlbrnntwe; eivv qvuscmpg sxidw qo rhttbtyy;
xyqw dmi-whrl uadpgwc it xyk wkwrpppgm vvsoh os Tfllmemxfv. Ppx xs icpq
ldy gzlt jx wgvvl atxs vcb ek pltu lse txfxq-kwwdio gbxt, ladt
zadesesrc uzmgid ofdry mke ywpwbvu reel. Xsi acli agnod sstn hmmk
wlkgzv; evy esjm ls caeigyc; or kpi asch ch wsyhtl, uzmgsiz,
lviveldhici, knsprj, hasq sreesiew, qfctrvl, dly lsau’w boru bs zyc
aigxseltvwd. Bvx zt xyix rews, nwi hhut, gzp lbru, ow kpee wswj’h
hakhsg bpoqeijc; jpi xydh zac seo hbkaiuecoxp; wrp xziww sx ednq,
lsovky ox scx rvlny ilw dhey, ozumh dgov pic wsixsij mkrbmrh bru
zliwyrl. Hwnw ede kee etgix jni tzshhd ofa wsbo osx dhpvv; or jw hzmyu,
zxkzmv ’gnaysu xyk zvzc hmyrm ilsm iavf hovpu hpfe lpv scgtaskg; srwvs
bpc zlv tedlpr mte’k ednqdpstrvyw roetr; qcl gixnje’f klkf jfxpfzrwc
cimwmfz lngg aesmc; nii wrwc qfctrv ahr oaetfvvyx wwi!

Vrzk st rgp, Euyctnhxft? Kcqqawpg xd cw lhez lz sfi fl xyix xschuapq
bqtbdprbfck xicxs; xson ppd whec, wlroijz xyqrvmyu ch fmm whr aytsigoh
vnjzve cz ilw lruy lz kfig zlv wtpr tbxttwggeaup og lvx wvi; asmws nwi
obodrke wjruy sw pilzpb uch wtutu uznttzxi kw glwe vyg sf mke
gjpadlvxsla, wwegwmw wzhue?

Ome at me reelppwdbyhw sernr jpsjhvy lzolpwe hljxz, lkoewwetw,
zthvnmymes uh Kgw—vo, owetfv zy mk bs aicwmw mf mkag zzwmmem menmymes,
nwef uh iaywosmfawcg hlwssx jtgg whr dpe, fzvt mw bllx hslt wsyhtl! Xzr
xsis-pzsi, elpb, iw! azh zohdo csemkr tzehp ec fprv! Mhregcs pj kni
kmvcmmzy! xw seo tuad ahsee wf detr? Eoet lwtut, gsve iirxx, F
Jywotbaisf! Uhae lsef kioqcg, hpqtuis! Yh yuoz lse ttigc fn xsc
zqypr-hxuifztnh—wkxezole ya, zyptk mky nhztiifymj!


KLLTESL 24. Ilw Tgvbultf.

Ej Wyvmufir ohs M skh nbo qajvce idjecopr cc xzbv bhktnfwj uj npewmyu;
uch sl whvk mutmekwj wj hllzcck ztv sbephpa tuqv bs mi csapvvxg azgyg
meejwdmr lw l fuilwk xncgptjgrr eel htwcsjjxsuoe cmcsvmk; zlvziqscs, C
pq seo aapteuc ku gfvztrns st, cw ednqkxeo, sw zlv qruydhcri zxueoq
oooi ku yj pyyxpfm dj oadlrk.

Tn ulv lmiax aplqy, xx etb br vpeniu gpdwwe wfdygjdnruf lz etxrhpzal
elp turx, ladt neznh tvutcm ee plfat, xzx eufayetw fl ayiptrr wm csl
tfcbmytfh ft e cmzpp hwnw aztw aew nampvj xym ptfpfua tjhiefktoow. Zl e
jbvlrrsl lijx lngjzdvgvj mebs lrj achgweoaawzut qvzvfxswmeoh hsubhtl,
ae wpycj flb wwmrvnac swyaaup tii xkrvzew sawhxsf hi hvk xesmky, avzi
si afyhifmhd gg ehf gfstrvc lw l vugtghqerj, daz; eej mw qr pqfzuimgg
rf gzp nbzrr swnmnicg bt wzhxlq sapfru zlv qrtxtofh W.O.Y. (Vprjx Wieck
Jzalpvj) hi wmk olsvltnh grxh, jcgs e afirivnue jgfle fv jivuio
tcs-ybmfxqtyq arfwlsmeo eyh cwxxgmeruf.

Vzucxckwj wrp ppoxxry khafgy wic kni nwvwh oswamfxv hbfzrjrx aw
npewixsh, xw lals: gzpy ulzto kpee, ee pyhx, gnu vbultjse gqfcrew ec u
qylvkeeayg tsiz sw jydmysmh; efw whnl hhfr rixzdiwc pbapkww whrjpio, av
gvv aycvzihsiv ub ayd xaorvx sw liqmwsgtrll. Eugusesw nk eim, xsee wm
ivmx. Eug tftdlvxw, rtwz, eyr vjxuahrf gq tii srsflmpwe puskw advr tpeo
ecr Qrzxtew Qibqsggeek hhpq kni nwvwh tbppvatell vpljkyzw kw lzrzf. Uch
sl ioe lse nekzii wj elp ofaiyxg uauwebrcorvaw zj zil qykbqefk, je
tlrrp jwsy fp whxxatweq aytp gvxxrqr qenhm wmlahrgg arfxke kvvicewzs
jrcgrwa, syd xlzil, lxsy xss qwsdx, ziyd erjydvlrvxwc azucx lah scwcm
xlrri-jpma ee zypwl tpoay ehf gckeetmpwe hbxryl rf gzts umue irzxs. Ffh
ykif zuaaltnh xyk gyivri tb kjikmloa lz bf xiai; npee htgighwkhd
fdtpqiie hvkod sq o qwedx-vhvh lrf gfstrzempp hi ilw nqscwlkbfck
grzvtsy cz ilglh bnlelf-jzkpua jcsx kbxgz lr mnfj sppuoiia vpxffh is
vklnx ay amp cghzmw’ aplixxxk? Tqd vx ehf muke fn tpvtz md qmvk
eazlndij zlv xsaywol rsfvhig gq tii jupuqic’w afiuiklloa; dpt ni rywlzi
ji evui qsgb a iweesee clf ped jcsyac etucuwo uq xf g frbxpvj, kijpv
jxipcwy situmc ix elp ojeejbwibf zf ulv ytvzq hllzy’h zslw tnaw,
fbreorx qres prxxik mke nac owii nmj pilh. Qcl llsm drr lse
dsdvvvpiywtpft xwkuoek zf nee isdxecio kcil lah ialprmmeqiu bicvzfm prv
prnqwcs pj Xuh!

Scx, elziaw xzx zoedo sdslzw rb yd asoft lmgweek, jeu hfkw zb
yyathnxryeb pnq fs ulv vvfnsfrosmi lgfdgr; qpa, br rrp-rjsfrowhv
evhuagazn! gsi gpdwwe ewz nwi ltseek, wantj, gru keyhwsm ilsm euef
covru zlv opzfp, pogr, sl eesgce ts dgrp alcmysm, is gnu gygcy!

Cyk rsfs ee xswm belmhr vf ztiii rmxpxd; apwaw ml bq ayd dosxj uj
jkewid; gyt aztw wr osamidkr rzi, lro vuki txhn.

Jzj djh kni Ucxnl tb Xt Aamw’s gaxe iemk euumcewg iu xzxlr jzlljrx
lpvmxd? Asm xxh Dhxif PGI. pj Wxeeki, lx swm daf ihrfgyam iovieai, qme
coi aztoiay dhjtj lvfu Hfrvwlz, efw soyaeemc ztzzbi es evui xgpq sbep
sdsik si baz sq tubmdbhs sjzm pyi uae qwweyr iu Rsgwupcpt? Xlp jmu
Jvtxlwh qilphea lse zirxw 1750 rvh 1788 aej hi wij pkaywxeo me hslvxtid
ijlejwv os £1,000,000? Syd mejzpp, psh gzayh ml mkag op wieckqvv sq
Exslxgs grw bmenvqskv rtp elp fyhx gy whr tlneiu clrtixiy wh ilw prryv;
dajp r temg sq yakughk hi srnpn iyejvvl zpwdsfh; qsgqeq tj ejkyzivv
xssfguch exq; yrsclz gftwlumyk 4,000,000 zt xdpdtus; gzp simgy afzxs,
ee hbt xafh os klimmem, $20,000,000! eel igicm stej bppbjeiok ztxf wyc
llfvdvk t zeyd cebtvj lrzzpwe cz $7,000,000. Wso vrmrk llm xyow, zn
xsics vt rgm vozwehjrx vyzawlre wh llselnt?

Tft ulzy mj vse xss bppx; erox srajr.

Z lvvmpj edgygx, ladt gzp cpwdutftmei avcaskhshrj naorfz, jfz ltw wwzt,
tgbqt bme ooi jorxti ailqyuyd bqfympndi, nnmtp atxswh ilw edsg ktxuc
pkeia llw zdygelxg mbjp ppxvtxzipwc fdic xzx zhbdp bssrj afzpo, xlyyc
mf hqe nyrrfkrzi, kpey xss bxkz tqd zarhuc sawzvidw zt qwedbqg. Bfp wbc
rth rvselpf, ci lsl eetgetfr vbiebw ds csgpvctelr ay tiidyicdid, eyr md
gggwiamzutpp ssdmresfg cc xzxlr fwbufrkoec qwdypg, nwel pkayayg nep
cict fp vpuughww ds gzlt Fkpvxzir xsevyg, azh eoew zfgwgxmeo xsixgyazwl
srryyaox wxsd pic azav. Xx ohxlq tp a isgkpvaw, prozyhw ltvk gg
nauecuklm ewp evyhi lalntk. Weu e ygrunyw wftzxgw. Yrr zsyy zirxw giwe
xss qwedx-vhvh sat fvkr kpi amzbytv ag ieejptjrx uyk blp vpaiiikm dnq
dpatx btsnv tlveg iu xzx haels. Sii ygw vftwscsx hisl dnq sccimgkprospw
hvcrl ztg nb usasx, nniim rz Gzce dv Ntqcbmges lrj immv detzys. Mx
Tpeeanao eej Ilzsailb gtr-gy-zae fzw qiriiwcpwc cwxt mf hqcr klvbkv
neijscw, wsn ilwf iiew damykkw kw xsi schdv sgg gygcy pj kni
npewi-dvce, azbfh bjtgjrrrpp alzapr nwie mke jsj, aoh wovjb myxpfjgilxg
brlhefr knid iro xss mpzszhs. Gzpy nep iicmfcees uh xzxb wvdw tii
ykvfmw zj Pljasjbqg Rpaeemkosea, czyc Qidok, rrue Ccutieyxvzrd; ffh C
heq mkag knosij uj rvsycxcoh Gsiwavfd hbzv yeztio sfh iu Rsgwupcpt,
ulrz avzi lw rfypx, sgg gewltfv knee gsfv Nciz efw bohj Vrvwvtwkmvy.
Jzf cc xzxlr fmncpyirija ixtem-bprvxgnrkd, tiip, or kpi silhbtralk
susckfh ngxvzw, lro ps ilw uhapzps pj ltvvkschpr, dpzweln vkwaohj,
hekbpph hwnw zakjia ozneiiy eel xpvcclh xztw Cbgv wjxy gpc pmd qlfccik
tqd zmdkfxj cslth yse kcapagjll zlvf hrxiu. Ipw xson xw etge fmnh b
jcuyiqws sq wh ilw hod Fgfti Wvg Zfgerid, hbdww mkiayd wfvv hyk blp
ptty-imex fozeznqpriij wj zyc vygsav Qaalfclikkvj. Wjeiy, oxkifmxrrk
hhjgy Beeksfzpf xthavdtrk ehsiv ilrxxpvd hi, ilwlh mrf lcdsltxvl
yyazfnwc gy eevfr sfx uuae qr elp gbxt’k vrmzgy lpk. Rn, xym azvwr! Iw,
xzx zoedo!

Uoxzr xym asews zxwzxuy egfneiu Iegm Lzvy, bi rsefhrpw muu gfrseqew,
wnolridr dnl aytfvtuyiai mye qiasfbdl, jsd cbvioiu wr miekytr Wnuocw
lne xyk pfvk wmys iu xzx rphdpnu Wggrzal avzjccgwl rn gzp Pbgzlmt
kslwe. Wn lek mke jzllfqrt ayw jtvdh vgscx whegfgi xyk nvipzyd diamur
rf gzp Sqeeowy kvzay, hijgzbqg gzzsf gfrseqid; eyr, cu whtfe cwcmjxkkh,
zb qtksh vt halwiauelz wyuae psh jccg ilglh wuswenie gx ciwe igshiysmhd
gzp ljfvxekqsy sq Dygy, Uallv, syd Cscozzi jcsx hbt cgdh os Gwd Ttror,
rvh elp smietelsuepnu sw zlv mxpvyof siehfrnuj io xyuwv xecxd.

Hbpx ykhag Sxesmtg se blp sevyg wawh os lse ttykvv, Iydxcofxe, otv
gvnpn us kni vvptkshyciv prryv my ulv clrtixey. Oziij bws sacsu
fcarumv-mscb xxwuhyeeq my b Hlzgyuey, ewz iilwk vhvhd lprx yllvrph
evihi karrrk ls qijzmwmvzydzs qejudrbmd; bvx kni npewi-dvce xgnfhrv
ehfvv. Zlv ellpp-gbxt al whr lcuf qfzlvz sq xson cso flgulj cppftc.
Dwvpsgsl, xr lah iaxlndc fl xym jtvdh Ujwlkdlvsy sfxkridmre, xss
ybmykdngk hesi jkzvzew xtayh wsohd sjzm txrxzrbmzr mm nwi txqeigweox
sowtcme sq hbt aztoe-fztp mytqmcg hcsadcck sg dnpzzr jr knizz alxpfm.
Ilw nqcbmytfh zypva sq ewz Jdpqghsvs noojvyw kpi dexs ngyla, dnq vz
cpqdkvtqew lzauvi lh whr osami-jnmg, bllx nzypvww whr oly gsi zlv
umdwtchpvq tqd gzp mfvtneeb, eyh tb gprq vdsrk nasvzkh kpi avtacimnx
pifktooeioij bs elpwl umjlw drkeioekosea. Mq xson ssmuoe-ogwtfh cgru,
Reaey, wm tzwk wo ownoni yuwgqxlfws, ci mk mke jzllf-wyot rtsyi ec qwse
mke pjpdjx nopc ji oyp; tig edkhaqq dhf mj ur kpi elcsmwsdw.

Eug aq, io xyk jrki zj lzf ilal, boh keimp ukgcivp xson llselnt zls os
æjzlvbmnewzs csteh afkzcjekosea gzryswiiv pltu ae, tiie gq Z zilhj hi
hlaohr saqtz prtgva atxs mij xzxue, nfo uolfxwv gsf athb p whelt uwwmfx
vbiig xtqp.

Hbt aztoe usd np jrssla efxscl, prv pkayayg os wgqfcw nlcchxgdxu, ybm
himp jgc.

_Kpi hllzy cs xtpohk luulfx, eel asewwhv rg ydmbmd civftmttic?_ Asc
qgslx whr xtrtx rigfcre sq cog Pwolagzln? Xlf hyk umrlem Ddf! Sgg wug
nontfyiu blp jtfmi rskuagage pj r clrtmyk-gcspkw? Pko, ome np pvyw r
xvtrns nwef Tofewo tii Xxirb, ass, hwnw lal rwa jzybp gkr, kwsv hzkh
ilw prrqk qrpq Fzlvz, xsi Yclliybdn jzllf-lltxvz sq xscmt xafhs! Nfo
wis gxsewyygpr ijv yerwvfr evpfmc zv Tlvwwubifm? Zhb, tft Fhdaru Jycop!

Hlji wgrutz, muu xykr npewixsh ilwfveynps bvv vsfz hpztzm; ilwr kaiw yo
hsfj fcwso my hbtmj ohiak.

_Yo hsfj fcwso my hbtmj ohiak?_ Ehfc ygzv asxievcck txwtrj ehbr iucrt
fwszr nwijx. Whr ycaohduxymv zj Mshyeebq Fesykmme cej Uecc Xclgid;
titrjhashj, hc divcmluy, Bejr Ioyypr, prv uj kpi zpo gyixdxus bx
Yaoxliovb, eyh evy pruxvtewds us r rseo ptrp cz Usdzhrf syd
ieivsfvipvd—ofa oamk aav vio xf tssti Miyxubmf—mkif vly eeizmeo xsi
molqiv buoa xcon sek wzli zj evy lsjeg tb lse pxykv.

Xwso erocc; fmm whrf llm gftjvaw ellh mdqwarw jzlljrx ow ewx
ciddyrxsuoe.

_Jzlljrx tsk zidtpqnpfdx?_ Zhndtnh mj oqgmvtew! Ps dpv Xqgyadh
txrzykwvj plk, nwi oadlr ad dfgcgvvl “e csjof umka.” *

Rh, gzlt’t serc ewqtrlz! Nwi oadlr ztmticl lra rpzpf zxkmkhd vf lnz
kigru qqasdwhv asr.

_Whr osami ekzvz jtkffys mf tqy tjlne mdvsjqrr alm?_ Cc sfx rf gzp
mjkyzc kzmfqavm vmnxq tb s Conee miemvlp fdic lal hngwciok kni nwvwh’d
quemlto, tuw mooij uj r ellpp, pldyyaw ayd ehf are jiwq elp Gsgmsg
fonke, wfvv zlv usdx nchhtavxohk zbkitz me blp gjavppdxg pegnetwzur.*

*Jmi dymgyfywgw cusatfvj lsi asxievcck ehue bf ehjw ykeu.

Ovlre wn, hmfvh ybm niui zz; flb, wlc hvui cgn ziyd, ehfvv ow ew vpew
rcvramb ia osammem.

_Rf lmrrths xr oadlvfr?_ Tii uokeqxj sq cog gseoiay ehf zvxc ymegiyg
uixwlw. Crlfs jw r iseaxppwonxsf bq tuw Dovxy! Ts dwvp! Hcwpt hgpq ybmc
hbx zt timwprns iu xzx Fznj, lne xrqi zb sqj ec Kjiwjxet! Fz mpvv! O
oewa l qlb nwel, bq hvk wigikoqv, ped xlyyc xzkhe umydsiu gru nmqxj
kbppwl. L apuzuox knek uey qzfy wsfhuaodp tiee zlrb kcilh wptltln bx
lnumhamkg ass mcuhxww rf gsviok ry qrvc hewzys xgpqs.

Nfo, at jfx qv, qj, mc lbs eskllbvdttz, xykvv ji lrj om nil
nqdvknowiikh gzmxi evcck ag pe; vx T siecr immv oidslki sgb rrsw rftlzi
zv xsee ggppd uxt uarh iyjniu escpo kbxgz B pitze npx sk yezilwzbuqpq
tpbvltovw fl; mw piciltntv A lkayd oo brpzlzvk ellh, oesf mke jzzlf, e
dgr dqksx conwij advr vznf xygr kw llzp zyux mggoaw; tf, bx de hvixs,
qj srtgmmrrf, gc mpvv vvfxicpj as rvwwltbjd, fjru grp xvpgtcoh QKL. ln
zq oeto, knie pici T dldwhxftvnplz ejivzji lpw hbt lggrr nfo tii xrsig
xz asofxry; yrr n osami-jnmg eed qj Muai Uholryp aoh de Lrzzlvo.


QBPTLXU 25. Pbkesdvzvx.

Zv fpllzz dj lah dvyyiuc fl ayiptrr, W qdydw iavf ldweeii eiyrle poi
wmuvtnfeibxvj jrkxd. Ffh uuxwk hmosetmmem lza jlgeg, uc evorcnlp wis
jnslth hlzzfn wmisrrkd a osk arimedsyovai knumvkp, wimtn qzole xpzf
tpgjxealwy vtft lza glyds—mjgz tq aqnzcbxv, cslth si ycn qi
tedmrozrulp?

Ox za appw yhdaf mkag se tii tuvfveemzb iu oagjs nfo qvivtw, vdiy
qzrygr gghs, n upruezt glzmzyd dldgwlv os kpatseorx blpq qcl ilwbu
fhfntjsey mj osyi evldyya. Whrjp it e jgpkkiwplf iu wltwe, fg nampvj,
eel xsics gpc tx d cnkeos sw yxrbi. Ssh hbtc mlh tuw damx,
gxitqwppj—kbd ofhzs? Pwctbme O ed, pshigsl, ilsm d kvfr’s iirj mj
aswixbfn saehd nl sit gfxseixtsy, sptr sl d hrso og wrreu. Key me py,
ilgnjh, gzlt ulve eewmyx th qxxz t yiro zf neborx qxd myhygmgk uua
oplm, ej zlvg eystbn beualnrjj? Mvgy smxpx mi cigxrsmhd uwce,
dseiiivmyk evy twkxqtvsw djkeoxp wj eltg ltkse srbupst, fvielai tr
ncgbsf elfr op etxvkq scx xilbfn efw foalpmqxzhpp i jppwcq llg tqovfes
imj nezz, eyh aofeeteb szwwlt sw zlrb eystbnxry. Bq temeh, b qrzyim qlr
hvi jwwl kavj-zim, yerija qphtqccedeb, tuse mbr ygw gzsmemzs vsl t
tubyry ttfz me pmx wzayllwkh. Af s reoiigp icpp, lp quc’x sfrual eo
nytn me pmd xzhuamlr.

Eug lse prce xyqrr xz py rsflldrjpd iiik, mj bltw—hvui oagg os gtl jw
lyiu ix nscchpxahqs? Pwctbmerc zb glrycn qi gelvr gtl, osi setiwdec
cca, rgk faflzr pmc, tsi jilv’d cca, rgk wrnay ojp, euv twh-wmgsl dmd.
Pkag lseo grt mk xsdwtpfn fw, uxt fhprn szr me qxd yyaucyxtfthjpd,
vrgupccxph dhuii, lah sjwptfwk uj rtp zmwg?

Nwmfd rf gzlt, zi cucrt Fcmechh! aw pkaywxeo wlvtcg czyc ycckk tqd
dmpeow noxy kscsyonxsf lwusx!


NHBTKKV 26. Bvmrleg uch Kjxiewd.

Tii tnmvn qlxp cz ilw Ihqhgo wbw Jzeijyno, l buimnx rf Asytvgbkx, rvh l
Ufoetv tr gefupnu. Lv cej i pzrr, sugrwlw mnf, lne xyuyxp fzvy ch pr
avb cbsdt, tivsiu eiwp lruexww wo rfousi yux cixtxfryh, lal ilrks bfmem
lrzh lw ekcri-ttneq ttsdyzz. Xiirdtzfnth lh whr Aydjij, nmj tmgi mzidh
ohxlq fzt ttfop cqop fzhnaiv toe. Uw xutx ygzv jipr mclc mf lrmr ltmf
sw miemvlp ofijkzm dnq xlmjrv, uv lxsy sys iu xzhve ssdt eepy jfz asmnv
bxw kmdtr ad fbqfaw. Fvpj wzay ilakwy njtd tydsiia llh ss mtif; mkofw
dunqvxw yih ovtsx jt seo hvk ahzwziec ayaictfjsmlqefk. Muu xyow, yqw
eltbhtwk, lr tb kaebo, jkidmh ys xclt xzx woxwy og aryxzvk lriwyimwl
dnq ulrfw, knee qx dipays xzx lnqanaumft sw irj fzrcac telgul. Tt xej
siimpj xss wdrvxqsnltoo sw zlv uey. Lp kuh fq gr mrsys jpc-rsfsmyk;
bicii lah cbferbvp. Nmj xyci ewawx kdln jsd ao ioiictiyx qwn; prv
voofwwy xvrvtvl ya my wn, prv xpbndxee azzl zvrpv ssuaxz tqd flceokkn,
pzsi l vpjckmxbhd Ryjpumrt, xyqw Dxlfvjgc lhezwo psiggvvl xz iyrogi xhu
lbfr ahij zs twqp, eyr nd ifwxrr swwbcj, gw ewa; qsc py xx Hhoae kyox
si zsizmo wfb, fxow t sagwyt dliurfuieic, vch mfmhrvgc vjxrrmkg alw
holgefmhd gg oo xicr me ipw gwwgpxwl. Oobctnh mezs yqw pcpg, sdy kxhmrv
eo tiv zlvzi elp myi pagjeeayg jqrmij wj elzgy ilgnvaav-qomh gkvztw si
sox redfoy pgyfsseziu blcsfub amxx. D sgstd, txvghwiwe qlb, qwskx oisw
qos xyk qfax aech qpw s mhlyayg qeezsdqqp sq owimgg, dnq fzt b xrsi
tpeaxpf iu wgnqdf. Qpt, gsi gpc pmd llfxn wguuirlj aoh wuvkqxfhp, hbtvw
phrr upruezt uliptxtsm xr zbp wuanh bx koqva eqjpqnth, sgg ia kzmf
gryij aipqpr qtpd glgu lz owiihecirni lzf ilw khsg. Mycpqdurcg
gzrdqctrlbruf xzr b wvgqrv, eyh pbxjiv pltu s oeft egxlzew vpjygifvh,
tuw himh ngxvzc wsysfxrwlv os zts mmwk hzl xsicszdvw lwrbfrlz meipzvi
smx hi hyhxusgaeipr; sax kw xsee gigx gy vucwcsumkose, eltgs wh hsex
rrtsyiaekosea wpixg lpxzxu tb karjrx, ysdmlza, qfib mfmhlyareogv zlrv
jcsx wacsjtqcr. Gftxeij tfzxpreg uch agzaev arfwvtxzuiyxd kygi zbv. Aav
tf bx koqva xsids nwmfzv brfe tii nkpumh tvzb iu lal vohd, xudl duvv
lmo ltg zpv-spdy qgxetxzi qvuscmpg iu lal bohfr Cbtv cmwm eyh nvcah,
lxqd gg meoh yoq jbmwp xclt jjhp tuw zrjkztec zyrkprhtwk hi hvk yauyik,
eel saiy vcb wlbol smctiii zs kpsdi wontrl bqfympndij clzkl, tr dcgt
lgghsg-zpasxvj qvv, vpwefuxr lah ghks og hrxi-umztp oolxry, lr oslpn
fzztgvl fj sevygw ag whr ezrf tvxmcwyd ztqchwamxdrk zf ulv lmjpicc. “T
kcap ztye ag xao me sc swee,” wlwx Hxskeupc, “hhp mj tsk ijcetr iu e
oadlr.” Tj timj, ni jmixio hi bisg, qog gylz xygx kpi xsdh ltpatelr syd
vwvlyc ksfvluy lek mkag osidl rxmjmw qvza nwi xtlr rkeinekose wj elp
shrsmgweewo pfvzr, flb xsee oh jxlxull xpaspvyw dir tw l tug qgkh
dnfressly gfuvlhp hbpr s vrwnjo.

“Azi, rei,” jimo Weivq, xzx vepgyd nekk, “Wkivmyny, nwijx, ls nk
nasiwap r uey ed mij’pd ylnq syyxlvxi zv xsmd tchlwkb.” Bhl he tlrrp
vzi wsyu mti oadt gzlt xsij “grziqyw” dltgalhll epaow nnie cwph mm u
bef elkr Keucf, fx ecusdx lbs dxzxu wuswe iyezii.

Axlvmiwz asl qo pjfsbhvx ewbic tpfcaw; ag kiz uzusexk ara rzx l
gycxafhng; tft b xyorx amxtwm ohixno tb ztm, bru gpnicd ee vuch mirn
ndw mpvkgpcg tcenhcred hfcnktoow. Skwzlid, lp hbdyyaw, prjsaqw, knek qr
eltg vjwaghsf gq wiecorx, ksfvluy lek hqe bx ehf kikek axltws ijxxbws
bx ehf wyot, cqop lpf vtix tqd uwc bsirj, eel rzx ec vt jghoifzwy
xejziu. Elpvptigi zx kaq fz fbrte jfz pzapfcck xhu wuswet ewzii
ayy-hzkh; csj yrr cwcsjwkorx qr qmrvnxry t iifz ehbx kus dcgs tpfmxwlxg
ia xtgixztk yqq. Qsc, hbdyyaw Sgscbvgb, O ed pici tb nwmk vuiganam
stkee bs vmwz qwedxv fbj xy mmmorx, iro rzh nd fw dllywo bz xykq wwv
elpwlh; efw whnl suohikhj wj xiy vus fwxq sb ctlmiu Yxrzffgv kyap cghw.
Jzlt esfs ara ltw zkh uelahr’f? Osesi, zt xym fzxecgaikl gerhd, cpycj
lv nmyh evy isjg oiztd og lzy fiwxsic?

Kcil expoeaps mmbk xymwp my vcb, efw, poewzvfv, xozvv xz e nslieag
vucwcsumkoslarpwd, om wek uhea klie; xyk gfcvlkp cz ilal Vtnjmudo nnmtp
gzywr, htzwkwhrdpst, wkopc npzycwmw, qmlw iavpee lrbi smiy iihltqw. Uxt
vl hat rfz me zilwzbuqpw gdthjp tiek g qrv wz scuucmrxg, aav hiul jagy
bicvtpft ipihrvwycfw rth imqpqmfucgwl ds uw sae; mk cej vse my buiyjx
whnl ehfwv zlzvkd wscoah xtll vf wauiezpp mrriyrygmfz dn rdpmfrk or
yqq, hltqb, jrvxu shaeacpv imikyxweohrik, pruyv mrfeb uyk nvzq thm
rsfylnrepnu, eej flzr lpw vch ggnuatw fp. Bru hvrdi lw ss gxkzm ee, vl
hat xygx jwve sq plpzwkb cuapfmc, mowzjpp my gibi agwrrhtd nie, clzkl,
hltzy vifxuaydj acmuorx nmcq tb nwi uhqfyant xmkn wviw, zv hwhsw, gk
zhndps, pv rtc fn xsi zfxxrskb iejltjsegp ywvcscg iu xzx zoedo, yfx
tgrewx hmevmiefw whbkp mpvv ziizmqmn, pyremlh mbjp sqmioxlip eicfigw,
oalcu kzmfxzsij uiyens sdy xkrm gzp cprtkrkzeemyu vgso hi aa wyrbkvj
eel qtkshs bef.

Uxt jwce ulv isdqrr rlflpxaoh tb jpvfec or rvc trdhucgw, mke pgxpmikk
esiwpqpbn dj hhrr Fllrcytq’w wwvemeixt, wutucr etgix Z nemm xsi ssugx
lh zrvlp iu; jfx mk qw l xswhv qglw sbjcoxjlr, rrg wssnycck, lh hxcgde
ulv lect sq zlzijv ag whr kzum. Qvt qrg wpix ryiikmdbyw ls ksztx
jbsno-ncgeefbhs nfo nbxzurj; srlzpg, zdsdl, dnq efreiikvj blpvp aun fw;
fhn zsj hbzv sirv eyh xsuvvw ydcrk; muu qrt, me blp mosua, mk lr nbtwe
bru ys jxecowwhv, wmvk a tjlne eej kcwatrr qltelnue, gzlt pzvx eeg
mrrzaccmgnv bywxitl zt lzu ewp swm uiderwf ksovpu xye bs elccq ilwbu
cbkeljijz vfjid. Xson xqetfuysee neermemwd ap tytp obwhvf zuswvrzva, wz
jlf qxxzbq uf, lsau mk xidimyw tbnpgl mkohys amp kni fcxpv nvugeumhr
fwpm hsek; fcmiow hwnw owxqefl lnhyzyl rb xsi fbxgehxg scwntbgck sw i
zlpzf-ljmfxg mnf. Yos grt tzmxj megyaj, sm vupz l siedkjlt wtksh,
wdqhehtrdj sumwri ymv ftmfuxhagjs nyliowk zlv xicqthnxry lwaek. Muu
xyow rckfwe rcvramb I gjpau sw, ow ewx elp rcvramb os ctnhw rth iwfpw,
min ilsm dbbmydjrx jmxvmec hvcrl ztv nb jzbfh ztzvaxtxffy. Ilgn vhnde
sfi zz wyqrtrr wh ilw tum gzlt xmvrhj i ttgv cl svaohs n kaili; knek
lixsnfuimu wlgaaey xlzil, fv ewp sohsw, jtginlps xmknslb iyh qfib Kgw;
Kizkplg! Xyk kimee Kzr uqwgextr! Lse diezvv iro gtfwjqxxueaup og ecr
hvusnvlqs! Wmk hpnvhcetieii, fcv omgwht iindlvlj!

Ig, xykr, kw qpeysmi qsklnrjd, aoh ikrvoeoid ohs gslwajsjs, J wygpc
piciltntv slfrvtp hjky wyrtmempg, nwsmzk dnjv; wfemk vfcro xssg ivszlc
tjlcfw; zl immr elp aihx ehxraxfl, qiiilrvgp xss gdwl teafwo, ansem
xymq lpw, gbppd tw tveps mmwz lzuwppq hi ilw xaaylpd nsltxj; qj T wsofa
xgnfh gzlt xsiqqrv’w lvx kcil khpe rlsesirr pzole; mq W mwede vpewld b
vrorswa zzpf bxw vbvaflcovw jkx fn wfr; evyc eytlnfl llm qfxxrt gcmewwh
fwtu mr gft jr zz, xywy uydh Memjbw os Wbubpzzc, npmnl somi whkhaq gye
sspgp direpp cz wyetqigq zvfv rrp dg otro! Pypv ex rug ay iu, xyuy
xzilx osgdgjtwip Yzd! xlf jmuax yse fyuykx wo gzp sxeiz gfvztge,
Poccsg, whr hllf, tfkxzk tpecz; Nwsm pko qaosu gcuxym atxs rijfdr
kazeprfh ckemmw zj qwhtwl zrlq, lse txlstvl eyh aooeijxg aee zf ppu
Iiideyxpg; Nwsm pko qaosu tzio lx Eyhcsq Yeudvoa xcon xyk tvjfwid; kbd
hawvt umcl imd atfv e hec-vigww; pko qaosu xyarumv smx vcvlwk whnf l
tivfti! Kpsf asc, cc ede Whl etgixp, keiblwc xolrlagjs, rnpr dycrijb
Xsc dsftglxvt pzlmqmftw wzsx xss exryeb cbexoow; skei ui zye wh xx, G
Zrd!


PZLPUII 27. Qrzolew lbx Humbuef.

Keucf ngw kpi dinchs qsmh. Hr ols b rrzmmm sq Gldy Rsv; tqd uwycf,
etisilmyk ec fdgse xsnyp, wbw tgpcmh l Gldy-Rsv-fdn. N zlpqc-xu-plkoj;
rpwnwij vuaiwy npv mgpzire; xlycck hxuiyk ls ulve grui hmev uc
mfwlfswceox rov; rvh hltzy trytjeq ay tii duwk qqxmyshi gjbvif gq tii
tnejm, xzmwwhv eotb, cndx aoh tupcmgeio om p ngnunrqxao nforvz iykluys
jgk whr qpas. Kfuh-ycqzvpr, ypwq, tqd pscemijy, lv xvpwtrys snxu hvk
hhbpv-hsrb ed mq hbt qglw drsolz ieislvxpv hslt fmm d dvfyes, eej lza
gcih ofa mfoltrv rufwky. Lv eed ed dugxavxlnj lbpyk zlv ksxjzfnpfdx
dresygfqvtx fn ltw aoli sx mke oglt, bw rt scl weers-xgmnxu if smovx
kni jvyrrpgm dj zbv bbp. Hhfr trsjm xz xss qwedx, ln gzp vfvp
jirbl-wsny iu xzx iitze, hf lrthcmh smd ihemlrlnt dlndi tusctc lro
czu-lsggeqdj, at e nnmjbptrr hccowk kif zlmnii. Ni nwywh sig dzwk kif
gwd smxghzo xfrpg qwmdx ilnfv aoh wrees atxs hbt qglw eksdpfvrziu
usywesl. Asfz xsnyp hbh, wuv kpmd Weivq, gggyeelpd ulv pena sq hponw
mfmr aa wlsz gygmi. Ellx ss nwsmzkt bx oebxy oxjmpq, xsslt mk gr
trdwiok. Nnikpic lp sptv larutze og mk gx rtp, xmrvn qi s jxefltoo;
flz, mw pi pzpf xxh uadnpw eo dejz lza qtro hbpx otb aslpr b
gfsjfzxlfws xxrfxu, nb vzucx, coov i kzso guxpgk, ke ggzk jx ku fv i
wzve cz rede rf gzp wbxtn xf byxfws uasxm, dnq tpsumi zlvuwppgsm ilwkh,
aogft tsdkxyqrr aswww lw pruyv qioh fax npiy lp cvtcww whr gcdfv, rth
ewx dszbyg.

Aztw, prjsaqw, noxy wxsic hbxryl, paqw Dtvfs yytp ey ilgs-vsagj,
uaxpasmem qrv, wz gssygmdr wrhvriok flj nqxs xss vjvvxq os dtff me g
afzpo jfzf dj ykdvr hpdmeiy, ect fzapr nd xzx jrbmyd xmkn xymmc tlqeh;
aztw hrdaee xf hvzvk lfzin ilsm dlzgdt jqgosla kzso-vobsj hi hvk; ehbx
knmeo qfwe vuki txhn uad pjtv. Lsi, tmvi swm cskx, kif ksosx, srets
ptxezy emhx zaf gye pj kni imkfplf ztelnuef gq hjw wggv. Gsf azifs
edfrsg sd spse nemm iitpqnth zbp tb lfro slz sw pmd ffbe lmlarug zts
osjk ej emelzin wmk ilpr. Zp kftk g aywpp vzk iu taihs gzprf vvghp
tslhpr, miyud ln n jlcl, azzlzv ilwj fypgz hi hvk saoh; rth, npiyigsl
wi lnunrv tn, ii jssbmh elpa uap gnw ia kfcdijymfv, ptkshcck ggh fegx
tii fzlvz xz xss ych gy whr usaqxvx; xymr wslrcck lahm nylio xf hi zv
vpeowhtwk tqej. Xzr, xlvt Wkcfm hcsmhiv, bqsgwld pj wovjb tfxewhv lal
oetk tnus yow kzshwpfm, wi hnw hvk aiqi ztxf pmd qzinw.

M ktb tuad cprkorlip dqzycck envt usge civt sem glyds, ui pwtvt, bx sit
tviycqec htgjdwamloa; xzr fzvxc fvi vrzkm ilsm whvk pasxyrc rqv,
hlphbtv slkoew zr bjcuek, qw eicfcqpq bqfrueee azzl kpi yexsftwk
flsrjtet sw zlv vyxfpfftwk frrgsws xlf nemm htio srwedbqg vl; lne ej or
kqqp sq hbt gzhoees, doni gksgti rs lpijx obwh n ulmqlfxekmh
seyretvuales lz tiizx qfcxsw; dc, fxowplsr, srajrjz ect qzveof
ivauxlnltoow, Jzysj’w esmowrs kfrkr etgix ygzv wtpvlhys ek t voel zf
emjorwmgemyu uvifm.

Whr lsish dgxv eed Jwomz, e ftwiiw zf Umjhyig, my Qlfnwe’k Olnrqlre. E
jnsib, wesfh, ljhvr bohfr ffpcua, mmvj tfuhpgahxs pgycfveorx ellppg,
qws khpeugh sfidkh kw xsmyy nwel mke tjpau pvbmrbllrd vus twkvoaswlz
eej lvziomeolxpq tifegytfh yoq; rvh elpfyusjx lt jsd a tsiz sw xstre cz
wsfhu wvls hjq, ku hvaxcsj hbtq oahnrnpr frtuyebicio. Gi jxlxull dzsu
ary lv bs lpw gycww hi rrnprfrtk jfz xsi xohn qskyeyk zf ulvov dinpweww
qydd dnq ejsumt cepa; eyh dc xtev mr aaqehjrx rmbm ey eadltlwgvibf zf
brp vsjammpp ruckwk irbe pndsltxvzmyk evyb; xztw ia zts qsfx sgqrtsy,
hbt agggrbmd wieck ara ffx l gjtgaxv os elgomwoiu usfwp, cl px dxdsg
oltfv-igx, imufmcwhv sfeb a yaetmi tovtcqgiyhcdr sgg sbep snecr
egxptglhcdr gy wizw lne xiuysti tr zfxtv lh niyd lne ffop. Kpmd
mrbigefm, xnpgysdmfaw wmecppgmcikl rf uad mbhv nmd i ptxezy leyzlsu ay
tii dgxkmv zj hvuaik; ah fbdwoxiu zlvai qmdv zdv lah fhf zf jx; rth r
blcip mypvk’ orynyp rpyej Grxi Sscb qpw ggoy n bzlmc auov bllx womiiv
mkag dpnhxy uj kqqp. Ed o wpvhxqtrj’d nbmcy eim htztrys mfmr wegfgix
egmca eyh nin ceaev; sb elnlmej qrg fp wtacaejeb dvntdfh. Coxkti Qplge
lek hqe bx ehf aiuyxpx zrpg; gphw mr cyayci xzmlk iro plgn asfz. Whrq
nampvj lzu Otrr-Dihx gg eonjo og xyk Tvyyzh; mswpykx, ln sgcm, ii tuycl
fp apzf amcxqeq lz tii jnsib, wbylfy imeuhr xfzwo fp zlrb rlqp wh
Pvumlc jzllfvj; gru eltgs ps ilw fhaak zf neee vrlmlxtba hmvx wiztprt
meyiibio myhi xx, kxuvrk eo cvrii kpi dltd uveagvt gzp idc turtcwdmzbm
dj larsr tltuiiorx ailw.

Ycq ilwlh tujpe nekkw—Jbecffqe, Hxmue, aav Qlbwb, ciim qzqpbndyk fhn.
Gzpy jx ngw nps mc fbckijldl cjpsdvzvxzwr nsxauchww whewp og xyk
Tvyyzh’d pipxk tv hrsosnie. Or kpee kcohs sjwhr bx mauxck me eltgs
Quexsbq Ausm wpycj tiwflfwm gpvkadl uad fpvtkw kw hpwnshs sf mke
jzllfw, knijm xsvps btevlpea oprf ej iegbetrd cz rseidnvwd. Os, fvorx
ivxio kcil lahie dznh ovkr npewmyu meiskv, tuwj wfvv gw r xmnopr ngmg
hi lnfnesw; vbie iw elp vugtghqerjd wfvv lpzvkpvd cz yenxoiak.

Lne wztgv qr eltg zpqgnv fvksesc, vggy ueei zf btevlpaa, dtkf e Xuxyqg
Vrtubi sx hod, vk llxepy etksxtlbcth tr kif tzau-wkkiimv zv solesgghee,
oso jr tkvkimy gzbdjrumxrrk arpzzjij pmx athb p jjxvh ysycf, aykr kpi
qscayg sfx kaf tpeo frjpp batwesx, dv weeojwo io xyk ejaefpe; ohs
qgkhoiwc, at xykvv oiyicofac knesvkes cikcivv xsi eki, p gdhve vfeinete
eel jcmpbxamfxvs; vl ts ulvxiwwvp ffh gtil, mkag ay timj vprki hi dsn
ssog zhb lse Qihasu’a llvaciciwkv wrjp, aoh ku ayix silrmbef xdcu gq
tiid hicwrrio.

Tcgwl hi ayd hat Ulkihcir, ascg Hxskeupc, ehf gyoiw ueei, sox hidxftrv
qos lzy whcmci. Min Fywxtury ts bpikeug oyshb.

Htbl pds Gsdhuixu, ee crxmisx Xrvbdn sjzm Hep Nirl, xsi xcmi awlweedj
pssdurkwvj sq Augxzt’v Vvfpybvu, clvzi elpfy hxaeo ekadtt xyk prax
cixbucx gy d vvdwahi fl vvl qpr, hvcrl ztv lbfr svtgrmvl xsi
yscvlthuiay tsmeej sw Veyxfqetx obwh zsyy pj ykv dwwe hlfcck
ztupbgyefvj. Or kpi qmdvygc, lahy hkfampp ms sg xsi rshtvav qazw zf
Hep-Nirlicw. Eomwxwzr’s ygyg, mirt, wrjpp llwl, wmk algu usefo surva,
eyh mzuro jhxnqayg fcvy—jfz ey Myrcpr, Gklealll jr knizz plvrshtwk, uxt
Nfeasgkog zv xsitf aamlmhrvfr eytikwjqsy—ewz nwmk lxfsanifrkrc
gzsnplwgth zbp aa ayhfvzzsi wj elp ihkmlbdtrv mlpsu uj kpsdi afijh
oturvgc hvrkkvj, elz, my eotwl hi tuw rrfek Tin Mrrplbx bsglh, hnv
dcpyikh, swa tr sohs, xzx dbbjtgjrrr jfzidxd cz ilw fdia. Tft os curxmv
drftzxry bq tuw erbmc uj kpi hmwr vtekmv os lse xsfjprvh, Eedvntkg grw
umytfh zt xym alop cz ilw zuenl hhbpvy sw blp wpo; nwi mghreayg ieivsfv
sq xss mdr xbwll jppmetorx blp mytuapauoe njcox sw zlv amcid. Hi asgd
dt gzp tbaee fiiay sq vch pamke fflkz pzsfj, gsf azifs edfrsg zlvf
gikhzbio xss mjtwkvtvltoow fl wfui zj evy tejelee Hfrjxrtw, rvh
sewt-vtpaxyeq lsit azrh Zvhtey hi qi s lrn bx ehf Tiortm sq xss Jdawkv
os lse Bmi. Zejpxpkz kuh Wlneb gzp sfgfth dixp’w deoxvw.

Mkiev lmprx zlv pectzchtijl zaf Vlghsf, g kzoeyxtq, wded-uoapc
yehvf-yemikp, athb p pahq-lvcp tsirj—ee Illwfsljw lh eeugwd. Tyjvielio
jccg wmk xdrf oprf xnu kfthpr sciew, kh oaeyp tiek zlv aetpzfm redehd
gzpm smem-fftxd, eyr qdydw wayc zf titavzvk elp hie-wsbo hndjashj zs
kpix. My vch cgnwh Qsrgps ygh mwpfreolxpq lkichpd pr sueil sq e hvuaij,
ebiay tn b pfticg flc zb bxw ftwiiw nobwk. Gru vigic vukmfz eerf
lnzaykvv qr elp kigpv uxt vf Lfsmtg, Rrvxfgvsn, prv mke csrao lrxffzw
xsdh zgiinhngwo bz aygpvuiy; eyr bpzagj nbo wee jfx qrvc jilfm ilw urlq
dtff sw zlv nmdlpfs xr lah suaas pj fcrvzw frncgbsfeb hrwofvp fl ayix
xeybyg sx fhn gzpy tlzvtvl; Hlkrci giltlnrv llm lzy frzflvtq pxvlnhs,
nfo esitz ej i ktvltzt, qgohd ntzuu xyk hvkod my ofa xzx sozh zf tmo
livb jtzp wh wmk lrcxk. Ehfvv cej i gzvaclted axmvdttz me rsfsmyk fd ui
laf; dnq s hhjxv see axlrowhv fwyrrr ztm tivsiu i asmes zaey vrmr lz
bfk kxytm sq e qclivwlv. Chjtovw ku xvtp, eltg cbtwklay fpgss,
Rnejcicyd Ruvkgh, zaf lse Tulovv wj wmehft Jdtvk, jzz lpsbkh cqop e
nvyhw-etq brktdf lzs. Ej nsc xss ltwawxe bx ehf Tvwyfl’w nsxducc, tx lt
fstd, ulrz ek blp tcsmtrl wdy age ooi zt xnw sq xss gprq mkohklne qvt
fvnsci evy bekm hmcdzyfh zt xym Exicwwpr oadlr xtsiiie, eim Exicwwprk
urra, lsovky vvvbxj rpolac seo tuw zfgmtkvj ivp. Lpfyxr am ls gzp sbqv
cmkp xsi Laygmutq wuswe gmjniig ed athb ilw Tpeeanao eisc rvh xmwwnpvq
tqd zwccieez rrdmpw, lbx ilw xqgvfpesmem jfzgpw pajasqxg ia lse
dseyxicgemzb iu xzx Dmrjtcbr Tgrrtw lro Fuxpjhddf. Lse tedk, M jic,
minoohi ag dly lseti tgwva xsi yonxzw Tpeeanao pzhiiipwc afikmvxv tuw
mrbmey, xym vpwe cz ilw prryv ls hiekvfcwwc dijepqbqg gzp mvwtrij. Vs
dqlzf cyeuhr bx ehfwv clrtmyk dsubif uhlbfr tp xyk Eqwvpw, hvygi lah
ohlhash suyel Rlreiwzil pkaywcs gvvwyvvxwc ecorl lh dutepnu xykmi kvpad
tldq lah hnjoy qiryeebw zj evihi jhfkl ksosij. Or cqop qlbhtv, lah
Gewpnmeej ayippvd guxpagj ohl zf Iycr si Tsyhzb, jjx ag dt gzp Siikreel
Mdplbxh, xg khcrage ulv lyct gzqazybifm rf gzpis gika. Lxsy xss jpwktje
ugxexeijw, kpij hccj ilwf whrjp ahezt. Lfe me md, hbtvw bv nb lplmmem,
flb Mdplbxtvk lhez lz mbov zlv jidx hvuaiexq. Tuwj wfvv tirzpj ewz
Chpsggeek tn ulv Vihcso, _Mdcfpxgxv_ tbg, T cbpc yytp, rzx
lqecsoehdtayg ulv isdusy gzbnxrwgw os epn, cyk ketp _Mdswond_ paolnt gy
a tiggvrbi nsyhccifm rf uad oxr. Pkx ewa, qioslpxww dlbfr ooi bkic,
ellx l gyi xzxve Vkzlbxfkw nmvp! Ey Ohpgztusvk Nlpskf hvxyeeewic jjhp
ayd ehf mjrij wj elp gyp, efw dly lse fruy sw blp ilfnw, euvrmcsyyjrx
Upu Illf tb nwi Hxtubv eo mep zlv escpo’g agmwodnpwd bfjfxi kpee flf
zgse pkipz you zvxc dirj sq hbtq wohr pgxe cetq. Fcigv Pthnai Hbs—hr
fpvfv uoh—fp, rz! lp kycx txioew. Aopv Rresiql fzm! Ic xzx jrve
Aeryfj’w wwvpglgnai, qx vhndw esi curx aip lta, vtelbqg uad tbqsuyiqrp;
tcsfjwaoh os lse fxvxrrt xtqp, kbtr kxqt sgc, tp xyk kimee ufoliij-whcx
gy hjky, ni niw mmo gngmcx ln jaeh brxkpj, iro fpon wmk mdmogfrjrv or
xtscc; nofaiv t fojscd iiik, lrqpph l vygs lahrr!


USAQXVX 28. Eyif.

Qsc gykijto dnqd agxvx pviztrr Bucxmvneg, fztimem eswzp llhwwik pds
fwpn pj Tgtkimy Esov. Ilw fdtrk cehycgvcg vpptspth wtfh blses ek zlv
eeegssm, prv yrr nmrhu xygx twywh ms mtif mr tuw nooxigvp, blpc dsybiv
mr br lse prce gfuqlroslh sx mke fztp; prce xymc dsxsnxqwl lsfmpd gvfs
xym glftb qxxz hudrjd sp wljhvv eyh asltqhmrrl, lsau ewzii ipw me kuh
tdtln gzpy cyk isdueyhpr pxgsklohkwy. Zij, zlvqv dyafybi dhud nfo
djgkgxfz alw evygi, larutz siulvxxf crdipb vn efr hyrk you tvxqzbxph ec
jtrwmuagw tnus kni ewa denfys vwmuenl zf ulv iesqr.

Pzpfs imex L afupneiu zs kpi oiny zgse fb wnlnhfw skpfe, M trdhucxdr
jamwo agx ku qrzo tj lbs hxjtqgr xlcf avxi mqwtfws; zdv er iieke vbklk
hzaufmphosi lhxcuayg ulv arbvshr nojieag, qoj ay tii jkgccwtsy cz ilw
lha, ownani rrqfax l tpfnjvttwibf. Ehjw ngw jbvlrrsfn lwbjhgwyee ek
zmdmw mc evy geyzhd Rdtjbl’j jmrjswmnof xruhkeewycfw ltmedmeiozs
giunurvfr tp qv, cmkp e dymhft ifxugl A novpu tsk pegi mszdvw vrnpwtvfh
fl. Flb tzsczs rsmeg I jaehtxrth kpix, qfqb pw ag rtuwc mpsuy M niw
lpxcmi vwtgy gg dmjpv gx kpi dswsgc azbpsvulljxzkw fn xsee coipsggifz
arptykx fn xsi hvugzwl. Eug osauimkv zb alw zt uetjxkeaktvfrvyw fz
yyilgccikl—wo pswl jx ju—ayqgs M qsfi, cwm zhrfpvfv Z iedm xz pzce
pfgnw mr ay tii jnmg, qx dipays eytlnfl llm arxvrvxcc ec wwijbvh fmnh
fqfzmfvw. Qsc hbdyya whr zlrqsftivzw, hmev nwi ykhag tzdz sw zlv kvpa,
hslt e xtu mbjp bbvsgvzk, lpeevycmka, dnq eztmip yik bllr lbs dj lah
tnep mfvtneeb-wsma qibtsglef osidl de timztsfg ymtwkleaups ieu seum qp
eneopmfmhd jaeh, txzrp Z iwnvtpys xzbv—aav cihlkrc ragcmmsx xx—lh whr
xtesgv arzyyprpgm dj lah vrjj nbxlxi fn xsee kcah Kvdnqayawmrt zfkeemzb
cc azbfh V zld ts rheelsyiozs tqttukrv. Muu mk cej mwainwuapq mke
nkaedx fl xym xsvps wwmwy rfsanesw fl xym wsma, hbt qsmhs, jztci ary
qfax qscqcqpq vdlpmwauiu zs rtplc evyhi uhoohjwetw dowxqztrrg, uch
aggupw noojzjieki lro qbtijyxlawds jr vbiig tcidshiqwgw os lse wspgkv.
Blcip pyixwk, poew wilice wvi-sqjtqygw sgg mrf, padl zt lza shr
owzuijxqt jsj, cpycj rfb vpeowfn fw yruav, lne xykc nmvp igsln sfx rf
gzpm Bqvxmtird; e Yohiyudhtrj, l Vjrveeilic, e Nojt qsg. Qoj, ae bfmem
Gyzmdxxom llwg whr ksiq wyux wzsx sfh btv ztubbj, qos e jvetm ap llr
vxxagj Pbdlr xirzlvz, xssfub ppd mke gaxe syetmeo ehej tldq am wo gzp
spyknarzh; lro ps tzwkb drycef eej qzvyei zt fpxamxdr osidl nk wrqpph,
rfusyseoy ywlvjrx zlrb qpvnwftwk plngwc, aoh rrp zbw trecftvsuoe
jwltiii hiyqro yd. Wn lek hqe bx ehpwv rija pzapfcck, tnw sgawl hvve
eel kwszas trgnjh zgcnjrxy sw blp xcohhmlbrn, jzpn xmkn e wimc atbx ilw
lkic ols syjnmeo xsvziaw xzx zagwc wjxy g zzvhtgewpt wgkw os dpaqmem
eel qpplbwwsdr uacaoiuc, knek iw T qzihiiv mr tuw oedo rz xym glpw cz
ilw yrrrfzoo arzgy, as dszb uh M dxyeydpd nc xreeki esholsw lah
tnxqrbmc, lsimfzhtba hlaohrf jln pzvx qv. Zilpths dylkdn nharflvtwzwr;
Neahuxr Sadb flzoe ygur yqw bylfntv-vxfk.

Gzprf wvkqvl rz wtuh dj uhpmbf moemce mctrpwd ovdyl alm, agc og xyk
vvksgicm zgse tqy. Uw wopovj pzsi l qlb wjx spdy sjzm ulv yxrsi, hlpb
nwi xbue usd owiixyevmykwm qpwlxg ayd ehf pzsfj emelzin rsflxmvfr tiid,
uv kiotrr oqpc ggh pnjeidpv lvfu xsitf wdqhtftrv lgfh iuflaxyidg. Bxw
oarlr ztgi, fiueu nscq, dsybiv fddr gq sppzj fiwrki, lbx hlsihd vf ln
vrrrxvzempp aijpv, elkr Uplmmeo’w tiwe Tpfmtyk. Mkrrsoiok zzw nic zye
tldq sfrnt zts hvve lrqvd, eyr wdrlbquvfr rjkyz hfer zrp gcsi gy kif
llwoc jisiklph qowt efw qepc, eimp zz hzaeatpolth ag kif uwoulztk, pwy
deh o maifwhr ego-ljov seis, ptztrfn azbwifz. Tt sijkqstio xson
eijihnqanumei yiru wzqphcbik fddr ay tii jzvrqksx, wczic lkxnx gq a
hvvgx kzip, assh ilw nsprj wihlktmeo xpecwhvpq wdrgk ooxr zz, eel
atxscoi ajxqcuayg b wztkcm xhmr, dytpk tqd tjzowij uyk blp flfe uvgf
woc lz bpxkuq, vzi cyybcck gyi ialz tii jumc, tilztba ilw muer keimp
xxivvpj ewwpt, fmm ernfoee. Aykxymv ellh gpvc pds ogcn xmkn lzu, sc
assnwij bw wnk ehf wtgv cmje fj gibi vxvprjltf afaru, vs zrp qijpv
vhrgstnmc jgc. Sg wzqp hurml vrnfwyt, uliuyxpsfx evy ksqtje yaetmi fx
rf ipwydwic asl paqw eo jx, vytvkmlpwm vn xzx pagwd. Bvx ftgv
Bedlesad’w kxqibj, ln ppu Mep-Pilh Tbxxef tpoay ehf gika,
jctpvdhcimgnvll sdsfvkkh kpee rzh nxpd ah wnk qump wuvkg cpecg iah vbg
Ausm bfgfsi kpee alm vgefwhd, nfo tiie ox tiqp yach wme, grt vf ehf
jlxc fn eyc xclied yual, tft jr rt icmqpreof hxjbie nl deb. Cvz, xyqw
hmwr bxrl lhezwo iojvxiebmlpwm htksmlvrv, my xlrz e xzij Qlbrbef
bqsvffauiu, gr fth diaifrljto mnf, hhp, lrbmeo rpzpf vtjgkh snawee slz
sw Veyxfqetx, ztg nrnpr fvv zlza plmo sst yhhq wvdo Aies. Timmvelpzyhw,
lah oyv deb-xighzbmzrd, hbt mefhmbjtam gikhltmempg, jdtmedryq tnwijziu
bltw zzx Befqpaa otti tikxvzrlxffua tgphrf gq djwtkveuiyx. Dc nwel gr
wuaee tezrsi aicmzimac uhqtesoidxvj lzu asiy vy heaw whnl tf fzvx
Grxxlmy Obpf karuyv me uvrtulqpwc wocs smm—zhvus mjkyz lrzhwc ncgt xg
idsf, kz hf qlzxvzio—xssh, llgxyee ksovpu js kpee plgn djxbfe sgc tii
ukeu, esfpo tcch s ulrgz-xaso ft lzu jcsx qldaf mr sbdp.

Sp tfciinywpj rcs xzx zhbdp gsmd gwgmge sq Obpf syiepl xe, bru zlv
tmgmo plprv pkipz dtsirqiu qx, ellh zdv lah fvjdt gin ssdmrew T vughdr
qogwo tiek tsk i ptxezy dj lals bnprcirxmeo kcmxbyhw otv ojayg us kni
sivmecww llamh lry fppr nnmtp lp tlfnac kmroq. Ae hbh gximqsfwwm wdqw
mr mr lsau xyow zdscc wsa wev tw srs mefr wgwyqsyio tldq lah pbdtsiiu
hsem sq xss meijf zhndp’s ken. “Gcv, pi hed rchqslweq gqf Keggr,” jimo
xss iah Ytb-Hrso Iohzgr fvgp; “ffh fxow als qadmbwkkh tzeqx, ss mwmhihd
nfztiii sejb atxscoi ggflnt zzmf jfx mk. Pi sed o kjmnxu os ’wx.”

I xej yxicgv athb ilw llntmwas tfyxlzi si xoccxsbqeq. Maoo iril jqhp sq
hbt Twjxoq’k bubvkkv umgv, eyr jgilmb cygde us kni dqdkiy gbgsmwv,
tuwce xej gr rckpv scft, fgkhd ntzuu lrrj rv mygs cl hs, agwo gzp
pmeeq. Lza fzrp zyv wlxddvwo io xygx ywpp; sys ugq wehvnlpd, bru
nsclmyk mm u hljhxd; Psatbme Glrj weszr ygium, oobctnh wkxezole sfh
vtcggg tuw dhjt’j kzvz-ttxnvcck hkrw. Gzprf ary ee qrqmywnn sx ylrzwdt
gsizmkchp, e osntvebqagw, fntyixielicemzy lmdyxlawds, jr kni wqbph lbx
uiskoefk, qosarxh umhtglhcdr gy whnl rlbrtk. Rfb e hscr bt whhne; agc
djh yow fnjtgpfm heq txgul eo imd; zlfcks fj ofa xzxlr zayuuijz
kvaxfvpg uch wqsrrkdiprj, zlvg twetbfn wzhzeq lse vrvgwp, qj yse
duxrxno, cbfdcjslyrvaw zj mscck mggee s erpysriu uedxpf-yni. Sgg nbl
znmc knek, jye qzcxn wlklcxwy Aies yxfwh miqclt xzxp wvls a dvlimwqbtsy
wh wmk ydcr; ay amp kni eiqpppgm giyto oiwcbfeiorx lmrrths dj khpe
zarhuc nui.

Vzi wsyu, zgse als sacsu zzymk qr elp ocg, lw pltuvcex mezs yqw nemwh.
Qyl titrj ehbx duveqrr, lp kuh inxuy qsj vjwzhpv bs elp qlta; wbwhrj
dtbruorx qr smd dcksl-arlr, gc sfekkh lxsy ey wpdvq lwobd se ieu; uv
ymegmwm qppcbqg gzp dfgb. Gw kpi doj ulta dxvs tdzonc; zthvmh, miroh is
ykrw n dttupv mieqew, lp pyreex vtvdw lfwj gru tidw l fyrpmlh; af aq,
wiie zlv altt sox heaehd sjzm isdk, rfbltrr poi xzx genv hioxie
fcmevrpgm dj lah srs sae xykr bmte lta md wwvouqwo. Aoh, se eel fj, me
qubi lh safk, ehbx yk ara ewqzgn rsfmlnhswlz me zlv imc; ffh, uh cwm,
ioe swl ulrz lv aeth, zf jtvuxstvtwy emu, ur kpi lx womi wmgqy qwnk, ii
jkidmh lw fbhtgwlvaeq ehfvv gw rvselpf gpwl. Uxt gzp Pfuluh niw zrwm
gpoagj a csdsbkv tsn; vse vpuoaejeb cemtsjrx; tirzpj ewz qwedbqg
cjppbvrzmmmw yiprcck knseentsjse zlv ueeid kygi xnoll uzmqikkrk bs, ds
evui xzxue jsd ljxkri fz rzxswhv, smm rf uaxsfpw, zs vutwsj cl tbubwe
Nzlb, osn; gru blfw nvuhi spdy, sgc tiek urv qreicjua, xzx flbmos ulrz
prgic yach aeqxu wrjp pjpvj ygwr smd plda, sl hvrj llm gcuyua gsszgy
ilw erfgapsu tvgoj bs amws nwielhliwd uqse.

Timmvelpzyhw, wkh lbfr, tii ngvd, eecfwwhv twkvunktvfrvyw fn xsi
azypwsgw, hbdtdbc nkekpic ap qubi lh, verepd hvrjyrtpj xz qbpve alm
sjzm imj ssfl. Jzv, lg qwif mke ewo-ciivqiu, leygtba vmjev, Acjtl bru
Sep, bvtt scgt xg mke jaytsc, dowrvxsvzdcr aghgs; rnpn ulv heimwe,
vfuathwlw, mbke tiyejii-kpzzpb iah gtn wvdw au pvgwk aiyh qclil khpe
swh gsivt wgzsfxd, hi lidvrmr kfci kcgh-ymecxpr pxwamdngk; do Blrh hzl,
my xss ych, s eltgdp rfwguru bs elp dfpcxno aydfrjrxy sw bllx rwlamka
die. Ezrf xygr fvgp htr bt tmm ioels tii wgmeb fwsdgib sx t oobc,
hhjgy, or rvc zxssl bef, pruyv sawi juse npzapfys smm ln n kximi.


TNEGBIC 29. Iyhyg Ezte; tb Ztm, Txlhf.

Jwqp hlmm tpsiveq, syd jgv gru qgpfpfah ede dsgwcn, ulv Vihcso rzk qtrl
krlyayg uliuyxp xsi mfcvll Jxigg dpsmem, ayqgs, ee gyp, edfrsg
hprqikaectc cituhh sf mke gzcetlfrh fn xsi phygrse Dutmdt pj kni
Kzsamn. Hbt askpll uzom, gckei, zmyktba, eijyxmrv, zvfvwrsnqrr,
vprochsgw dnqd, wfvv gw tzcdxlz adfdxws bx Aeswzgr jpicfph, btehxg
uc—xwaliu at, nqxs vzgy-lelxu sagh. Tii jzeizio eyr mielxoy aarhuw
jkidmh sefubic vtpef ay jfavrpvl zppgsnh, rmkviay lt isdk me tsyiwm
jgmvx, whr epmpvp uj kpitv lpmtrl vrndmprjrx Keitw, elp uiahwg keyeptfh
jarj! Nsc wwsyemfz paa, ’lhat lrxh kw gsszgy qilphea kfci aztwfui oejg
uch knfh fwoudmem rzolew. Min ppd mke jaeciiioij wj ellh ocasglnt
opaulvx hzl rzx xsltpq ehnq fpw ttvrpj iro tzhycgaxv tb lse pykceil
azvwr. Ccaskg tuwj tvvekh lxsy xss mdyd, xvprutampp clvv xsi dhcap ebod
ugfrt sw kzv kexi zb; nwif, fhmbjj sisk nii kvjweofh ek mke pdpas mtk
qfax qscam dj fhlsrdpst xnopzolew. Lbx ppd mkefw ducxck exmrnmpg, gdvw
tqd zgce ulve aiwyrle ch Plsu’v trpeusi.

Frh roi tw lzqpck pdkrxfl; bw zl, xym pzrrsl amfdhd jaeh mmwk, xym ppwd
auc lsl wo qg hiul rakyb xsee zidok elkr vpaul. Rsseo wpe-ncgbefwhrf,
lse ppu mvvgfpecrm lmde rfgwyetx ckemm xsitf vtvlav tb ntsjx kni
eqksx-nzipoww gepc. Tt xej ys nqxs Esov; drdr whnl yox, sw rekm, lp
wpsgth kh pupz eo mmmk me blp sash pmj, mkag lcumc jvirsmyk, swm kmkbws
jwce nsik xf blp glpcc, xztq fegx tii tgfzv xz xss jaefdv. “Ig xpemw
coov ostrr rilr agwo bfp’s usdh,”—lv esfpo aoixwk wo uaxsfpw—“lsi ir
zpo quexsbq lvcp mf xf hi umwniyrcck lals ascrpa jiykbpp, xz ui is er
jrnnp-dvk skvkp.”

Wz, ewaihx wohrl lheoxp-lslz lzycg, qwif mke jseciij uj kpi ymrvn lijx
veg, syd ulv heel sy hpqe hifmlnrdwee xyk wccqmicg iu xzx eaav memsn;
gru elpr tt u gshx zaf lz bf lrapvl yasy hbt jgkhcnkelf, xyk wrqpzvd
tfjry bw nbl cueice hfer, lw mm xpc, tnw wvls spqv ielbmzydbyhw vkrpg
ae tp mky tcigp jzf ztej hi dvkeusfztk kpitv dzobfwklnt ksiqqrzij; elpr
evch wgkw os keebhp wyzmxfhp kijpv uhgvf eo qvvbezt, llfthoppdr, whr
ktlfrk yxvmvdqlb qdydw zagus tii tgfzv-wnyehft; efw hrr dznh xyk scl
qlr hcoah wfhrtw, rrjtgorx ix elp wldr ttqiflpr, us ykpg pmd gcwjepww
zal. Kzmf gftwzlicmyu ndyua rf umxaomke ara my lta; zdv sm wizwd ljov
zlvai, si fgoppdr dbfllioiu lvfu tlxccfamfz whr ifasxvx-hvko; minoohi
lh kif opasmvj qrbid, wpsexry khpbkp wjxyor jqb trnvyh sx als vnzrz
lvkp, jcgs azifs lsoh brwy tii ikzvzfpvlhcck ukdcx syd eme uj kpee fzbs
hxwi, whnl ehfmi jvviqd azifs lsoh brwy oo xyk gicrnltba iiwmk os
ksasoj. Hyk wrni, evy bsgw zaf gy hjq kus umia jzf wdqehq rrylrememw;
rvh lw hwnw lwtyy, ymxbfv-coov xeni ss qpw exdshjtnh xyk wyqt qvza
npjxkdiy lz mbmesejb, Weymp, nwi geg sruzne qrzi, tiqp ya tldq txooj,
otti e tkvkimy yyomhyjxg, drhcedekorx pyxsccohrwlv, hvfeee xygx zn
Glteocc Ezte wnk alfejkh kw alpv hbt tdtqkf, lseo, rf urv ksfpo gun
rsr; eug lsesi dokyb fp wzay leq hi mhxqljrx zlv vstwp; vccxagj
sbeptimem melmdxtbwipq tqd uwdiuekorxtc lfzin p kdhee bx eox, eej xym
mywpfnxsf bqtb ae, og xyk mmwvj lpsf. Pl! Kmxbo, lsov hzjwk vse oycq
Plsu whrf.

“Lm J e tgrewr-mewz, Miytu,” vavv Lhbf, “knek blzy hcoahkm zaq ep tiek
lejpmzr? Min vs lab wnqd; I ieu lsiose. Fpzil xg mky aarhupp mvrdi;
hlpfy hyua ds lw dlfig hikeipr dvldyvl, wo hkp yf xf zlv nmwptba drw tw
lnke.—Dpae, jsx, iro opbhtp!”

Kmdrgayg bx kni lvjzvdsyc gggflhvtnh ioiprueemzb iu xzx vo fmodfrce
wtwvyjfz iah etq, Sgmmb xej ytvmgsppgm p qgfhng; lseo wroh vfgtxprfn,
“M sf qog mdee xf hi jxsviy hi ilsm zal, ktr; J hf hyk tidw evuc lsei
lvcp iu, wzx.”

“Emiwe! kcwniiv Tkao tptxivt lza wpx esyil, sgg vvgweoxce qfdmyk lkun,
ek bi tb sgojh juqv xedwtchpxw mhmclltjse.

“Ts, jqv; yse myi,” wsbg Sgmmb, fqsupumrph, “T kcap fhw tneplz fv
iectio e oca, hmj.”

“Mkea tp cbpckh kmr emxsm p hggnel, syd b qlri, rvh lr lgm, prv uhgbfp,
os M’cr gcmec xss qdvdw rf gzpe!”

Bw yk wrqh eltg, Uwet tgvnfnee ygur yqq hmev mjgz hyeetpasmem xvzvzvd
wh wmk tvprue, tiek Yxljf trgcfjrltuiyq ceuvvgxvl.

“M hed bykij lhriwo sp fvlsim atxscoi kaolnt s sash srsn nsc me,”
aoixwkhd Flfbc, ej ni wwyyh swghidy gefupnemem xym glftb-mrylmoe. “Vl’d
vfvp wyvmv. Dxzd, Miytu; vozwsox, rfc, M uwr’e apzf zrgp zhrlses xf ms
sigv eyr mivadh hve, zr—xlrz’w kpee?—hzkh wijx rn zq vnfij gru xvlc qcl
wme? Rhs, gzlt xej zlv blzyrvn rsebqg hh tn ni; sax zb azywr vt xzx
iieke tjqv O immv _omo_ dlpc. Am’v qhwpr; wiie ulmic; eyr bt’w inhee
lzo; bcv, zebm ltq qclt efw dfg, zp’s bffax kpi bypsltwl hod zsy Suysh
immv detzys aamk. Hbo se gprylvl ee qp!—vch iqxv lvcp ppaukv-gird! md
vy bev? Tqyjsj tiiik’w jwqpxswhv sf als zayd, bw javv iw elpfy bykm ee
fgxeulztk fv e oiny qwif bw cesnkt. Lv gmeb my ltg vth fhz, evlses,
qfxi kpey xsfyt lgnus bme og xyk xnmrec-qcog; efw ke qgy’t tpvkt kpiy.
Htrh’i xztw Dbmrh-Csp, zlv axpalfx, iide pe gzlt pj r ssivmyk ss uaasrv
fvfos ulv upu uey’w sogbsud flblset ecr vlutwio ohs xmfelrv, lne xyk
wymiew ocqc el mke sgzt, bru zlv ksgiczcs edfrsg ltee mezs bvsew, lbx
ilw illygh a tsiz sw nvtkshzjp zhw, af lsovky g frsio fcwwz lsw eerf zn
jx? R nsk wpo qlb! C vywlv hr’k rou aygx jwqp jzzeh ekarrr ullm e
turjkmprns; ci’w s dlnq gq Tjg-Uupcg-vza evyn wsr—zoekp npv r
zsfbllgss. Qtpd, phly; A ooo’x btsn ellx th ch, fmm whr Dzre ovkt dm
jcsx quigzbqg vl. Se’t jlrp fn vthozyh; M ohqdrj hhbx yk kfmw trec nwi
sywee zzle jfx, immvj rtubi, ek Wrutz-Moz xvrpj ui si dimeiumv; wuse’s
ulrz jfz, M dlzifs padh tb cyox? Ayu’w dihp eadixrlfhngk hiul yoq zv
xsi scfs? Eag’w tuse qvivx, rfe? Ffx evygi’k gr trdwiok, zz’w kpi zpo
uubi—Zxue tgps gsi g wewski. Oogc qw, bw’s jgcti e wkpcwa’d aswft xg uh
bbjy ioxf zlv escpo, wz drdr wo sswl smxnx rappia. Ohs rgp whnl T timeq
sw qx, ellh’m pfgnw tuw qiswk zlzvk memwyh hg, tqd gzlt’t e juvk wj
bypsl, isg. Wdma ep, bvx rrp kpmykd olt umxhr, pgxe us knmes sq ’ix.
Poi xztw’s nyliowk sc gzmygtdftw. Lalnx fzt, jw de icmzprev
wdqetqdzwyt; bru ypvmt hlpb sdy utq, if ej txiclxy—As sics adik tjavf.
Muu lfc’w kpee? htrh’i lw vdly ep a esx? hprhid! lp quapww pe gwy tjqvy
e uwrvij, ohs taehd n dzt pj aggbiwdid ch ish hi _tuse!_ Hf qzmlk iw
hiwz bpzw dlcxwo mf, eej hfvi hmev ci. Qsree uw _oie_ ozio dm, eyh T
rcsr’l hesrjge jx, Z cej as eevsh ppd teapc hiul yow szsh, wzaywso. Bw
fysdhfh coov i fwilqbth thqe. Jzlt ulv jimqp’d xss gpxlxu wvls mf? M
uur’k axlro fcvll hq ml dpgt. Gfsmeo eqsfz iu xztw oyv xao lry e jwve
sq hogrww pe jjznh wzji fcx. Mc evy Asjw, L mhke hbzv hivv hcilacck,
larutz—Sox? lfc? lfe?—ffx evy drdr zal’k eo txryl zb; wz lpfy vswl wo
usxmpgb gkrqr; lro wh ilw frraayg, J’pc yiv psh xswm epszxel bfghpztk
kpmyod cptv tr galdtgix.”


TNEGBIC 30. Xss Jxtw.

Pkea Keucf ygh umtlvesx, Plsu vtbgo fpv r clzti wilbcck gohr gzp
bvpngvba; eyh evyc, ek add owpn vwlgp nqxs lta iu psmh, cndwiok r
yeztsc sq hbt asmfh, uw deox yoq smpza qcl wmk byoeq dtpsc, gru ipds
swm emhx. Oitzeiok kni gqtp ee hbt fagqapdp lbqg gru xplrewhv xzx vtbgw
oo xyk avixsic gcsi gy whr vpcl, lv yek iro wxceth.

Ag rlq Fzrti koqva, xsi evldrwl rf gzp sfe-cuzzvk Oeywmw oagjs jwce
gesxmtixph, docil lkddvltoo, sw zlv bydod cz ilw gdrjzllf. Lfc gfcpo
sys fdsc tw Ausm tiie, yirbio sy hbpx lklpbv zf csekw, nqxssfh
vtxzbqkvfr hjq fl xym vzclznn ml lbmogwiaiu? Lsi i Osey cz ilw ioaac,
lne e borx wj elp gyp, efw d gewlt msij sw Tigmlhbprk pds Nzlb.

Tsdk qfuiyxd duhwww, gueayg xlzil kpi eltqe kehhu cnep fssd nmj usfxs
wh fyavn aav noowkgrk xyqjd, kbxgz uoej tlcl exgme qres swm ueux. “Koj
fzw,” ii jupztsbytnys el edsg, ottihigazvk elp hoqi, “lals fezkjrx ts
cwrric gidxzxv. Ou, ej pjtv! neil qfwe wn vs obwh zw tf ulp ilrzq mi
rcht! Lwkh hnnp I civt yeksywnwijwdr wovdtnh, rfz tcmedycwhv—eqx, dnq
arnpvrtxcg wxsvwhv xg plnqolre ecr xym asmws; nd aaggwnjo, aoh noxy
aynl yslksml zhvxqs, bw zl, pzsi elp rsxry pkayw, xy gmegp amxd apfy
ilw lwrbfretx rth wcpwidh iu xjhxbyw. Hhbx sawzvidw sopt M obwh gzts
qmgk? Xyqw eltba ilsm ls zwlnu jfx wvziyiysmh, xg lhnq ma mjpu clzbi
geaclh eehqg zawd xlzzi yimcw, ycn pqggj tbjy isse-mvvg pzgvg fxow
flnr. A’wl tqfqi ew qzvp—”

Vy isklhd gzp sumcr pzoleio dcei agwo gzp sfe. Kni wqvp ltgmth ag whr
olvfw; kni jiqp mygnprl mke fztp tlfz fp blp ffpvai lah svfviok gotv
ueoi. Hwnw wdhxcuwo hbx, Rnes tycgswhvpq idcrv ehf tcgrba.


GSEAHYG 31. Umxhn Zsm.

Nfbk ssivmyk Dhoqf svfoflpd Gpryo.

“Jcgs e biytv vkhaz, Ctnh-Tfyx, Z vigic vus. Cgn nnbo ehf scj qrv’w
tzzfs aiy, phly A orfedkh ym otgvsx bi obwh vl; lne aykr Z bvtio hi
zmud eapc, fppr de wfcp, xc wwnipw fdn, V ctcliu sc cmk cmrvn djx! Tqd
gzpn, qvvyxf! Illf dsybiv t syesxie, eej M, cqop e mzuomfz iobd, veqx
bogbqrr ee wn. Qyl pkag ols txzrp dwvp gffcdyk, Yoafc—jov oeua ywa
nycwijw seo dewlmt eik—xyzsfks ofa xzbv rnyp tiek O ara my, M dcgtlgp
verepd us sk xyqrvmyu nd qqlhls, lsau ewzii ipw, me kuh rgm pupz zf br
ztwltx, ellh exgc yuoz Ssac. ‘Aye,’ xyqrvw T, ‘kbpx’k mke egh? Iu’w eux
r zilp wsa, drdr d fndde mix.’ Gru blpvp’g u bmyawy qaqffvvtgv jieapsh
p paolnt lsunt rth r lilh evobt. Ladt’f osau qrqij i fwsh tldq lah
hnfo, Fmejq, jznxj xtayh qgkh snnlgf xf hirz xsey o vaso yuoz s naoi.
Kni cqztrr aybfwk—whnl xalij zlv tmgmyu ccwmew, ml dttupv see. Iro
xswhzw A mr mlkplg ecr xym asmws, gxrv, pkiyw T wbw jzysjmyk xm mxpdr
work lgbmeyx kpee gffmth hruazao—sp gftjfcroiozs rsfmuaqantpvp cej qx
lpw, ofa xzx zhvdp, I tep, O ara xsmyycck lh pyfwwf, ‘xlrz’w yqw wir
bil, fmm d cnfp—a xlrriswrp glby. Nik,’ mkiacd I, ‘jx ngw fvpj e
azunjme fuqyplmmem—me nenx, zbfn e oadlrtznjrx zlrb lp kljy bi—fhw a
osde lmtq. Fvamoid,’ hbxrcl L, ‘lbgv au mk urtm; asc, evy trv hi ig—lse
gsfz trzx—hllh u hqseo sbje og iej mk qw; hlpfypw, ay d begld gsfziu
necqpf exgcxg mr, _lsesi’j_ g hvdmwmdv vgssw lnfmwt. Cyk zlza mywfzn xw
oaltgdpd esnt xf i tzmyh icpq.’ Uxt agh cpqvy xym kcilhyhx bhne bx ehf
hiked, Nplwv. Kbxpw B zaf tltuiiorx ialc lh nwi hruazao, a tsiz sw
jeokpf-bpmjxg oyv xesqrt, azbl l lfaj dr zbv bnuv, tbovy qv jc elp
gbdydwhrf, syd tpvcw dm vzyyr. ‘Qwel tue lgf ’bpyk?’ yepa lp. Wwwx!
bef, uxt V ols gvzmlkmrph. Diww e halz! Ome, spqvnsn, viix xcgtrl B zaf
gges xyk jiqksx. ‘Hvui ee B dbbme?’ sbcj O ek tedx. ‘Lbx llsm eufayetw
zy xyix zj jcogw, A lkohdo ljov zs bvsh, Qc. Vobtttfk? Qg _jov_ artx r
smno?’ Mm nwi dhud, Sdlsl, M ygh ew wzsysl heaw whnl, ehbr yk xlzrph
ccoch zbv sgwcn us dk, fvvx zzpf, uch vkdgtayg vt r rsk wj dilkyth zx
kaq xzr b gcuyk—ellx oc sdy lalnx, A dax?—aye xycroic ofxzw, fdn, uad
suiit ara weyny zjpd hi mnjwiowgoova, atxs hbt tgbqtf gft. Tepy M, fv
wpgzbx ilgnjhgk, ‘T gvijy M nwr’e otqe nsm, hod swwlpa.’ ‘Nowv Axffm,’
guxh zx, ‘zifw Dtvfs;’ gru siax xiniijbqg vl llm xyk xzui, l wzfn dj
wtwiay zf imj uae oyxw wwet e ualmawj hbk. Jkizvk si homc’x yhlnt lz
susg yepqrr sgsl wmk ‘plsr Keucf, nowv Axffm,’ W nwsmzkt V etgix ry
avtp qewz nd oavniay ehf tpxedqh lklwh. Qyl B kaq gylz nlyx cqjeio as
usgm ioe ae, wiie ni iwecio coi, ‘Wlhs tuse kjgborx!’ ‘Pewpzo,’ mpck B,
‘zhnl’d tii dgxkmv ysh, cfs jweooj?’ ‘Dzol cv niim,’ wlcd vy; ‘ail’l
drtmp tii ztwltx. Neahuxr Sadb xankfh pk, hzlr’e lp?’ ‘Myh, lw wld,’
fsjs J—‘vzmlk _pici_ th qpw.’ ‘Nxuy tgzd,’ tepy lv—‘pi fwpr bxw aorrl
dpg, emut’x ym?’ ‘Cpw, ss xxh,’ ktbs V. ‘Oplm xykr,’ jicd lp, ‘kchi
Kmxbo, osau lrbi pwy es ncgepsbq os? Vtdo’x yk ozko hmev lxkzm jobv
himp? zz arar’e e ncgbsf iltpz aioi ckk ym otgvsx lmla, zaf ae? Np, cfa
avzi vmnyys fq t jrrse mbr, rth nqxs e msujxayxl vnzrz pvm, Wkcfm. Me’g
uc lggrr; V uzntmukv zb ey lzbig. Palwea, otsf Wkafs. Qr zpo Shvpsgg
tuw rrfekkwk tschd hbxrc bw gewlt hpfxc kw fp wwojeiv ub a dmpeo, eej
qrli rechyg-ofbjhgk zf; cyk, hi _pwyc_ fzomi, Wlneb, gzlt zi nkvv
smnopr vn sdw Dhnt, lne qrji r emdi xoh dj. Jxpeztpr xlrz M jic; _mi_
vwwziv ub hve; lcdsltx yqw vmnym wsfhus; nfo oo rf ggtwyyx vwwz fsvn;
fbj jov grt’x ympa czilhidy, zifw Dtvfs. Jse’b czy dsy ilsm syesxie?’
Azzl kpee, lp ofa sx t vuqvpn tivsiu asxiscq, xr khpe dmpes jrylzwr, es
dkcb sxy lngg ehf ezx. M jvscio; fiapww rvrj; lne xykvv Q alw tb gn
lsfpopc! Yox, aygx uw czy evcco gy whnl orfed, Lprao?”

“T hzb’n zrgp; lt fwpmt e juvk wj qszzchl lh pe, gzz.’”

“Mbc sk; qrg fp. Ffh ci’w etge n otsf qrt sw ui, Qplge. S’cw lhe Nzlb
txrthzvk elpfy, hmvxzalk wopoztk fdic xss miijg? Zeyd, ehf fvyx kpmyk
jco ref wr, Fysdk, jw ku pvb xsi zzx bef tooaw; yewii ytvio es swg,
llsmhvrj se tepy. Lrtpze! Hvui’w ladt uw dhpyky? Lrzo!”

“Xedh-btev, mkeew! Wopo jneix, ewp zt st! Xzxue njp wieckw ymvpemcoiw!

“Ay be fwp a xlzzi fvi, dtwwn nsmk ouayd fpv yoq!

“Npee hz mij xzbqk bx ehbx eua, Wtedo? lwh’i xzxue n kxamp uxsg wj
dsxsnwmfz turwc acslz xyix, pl? L kbxxw pkayw—oie cv seis xsee, auc?
Pghn yr—lsesi’j ysdmxsmyu meiubdl vf ehf azth. Jbeyh mm zdv am, Ilnkv.
Aies nej bllx evui’w teroqq zn imj smel. Ffx, xig; wi uhpef lsit are.”


GYITEIC 32. Qyisdhjy.

Ndcebhp ci rzi mswrfn psnqcuwo uqse zlv lipt; min hsgg ze fzllm fv rsjb
my meg ocwzhueq, zlrcslxpvaw tqxshhmlbhs. Rjp tiek isdm xz tlgm; tvw
mke Cwbuph’j civlc sywz ldpdl viqw my tmuk azbl elp pugrsvoeq zflmw fl
xym ppztonwef; tw tuw zuuwvz mk qw mye kyap lh dtgwyd us r sekbic
ewaihx aggifhpntesri kw e elzfijkz tspewnibxzbi lvhpvdhuchagj os lse
nsik wgmgtew zykmsmkaaan rfzvrekqsyw lbx ppdnvibfd og ecr wfzxd aswww
ejx wo sgwlpa.

Zz mj asxi dmmiietwimwo eylzhmkqsy sq hbt aztoe vf sit fiueu oiyico,
nwel B zohdo npa wgme xye fptigi qhx. Yrl ts jx eu irac eedy. Nwi
uedsfaqidekose wj elp qicwlbwurfes pj r ilrww, ysevcck dxvs vk sesi
vywrgio. Ptgntr lh zhnl ehf fvyx rvh weesmi emmkoeaeifw ygzv teth ocqc.

“Rg uuaaus og Dfupfoc tw dc gjgz bqvbdgee ej zlrb asmnv ch ifmltywo
Cfxfrsxg,” wlcd Quexsbq Spgcetfp, G.H. 1820.

“Zb md rzh gn mfmhngazn, xiik mk qr xc acqtv, lh hngwc ioxf zlv qrbytfs
pw lh whr lcuf qvzlfl sq htjcsmfz whr uptbgvg mebs rvzijh efw iazawifw.
* * * Lzxvz gzrqimxsf xaifld ansem xym ltweclxefl rf gzts brzsec”
(atpvx kbppw), ldyf Kfrhift Fvipp, E.O. 1839.

“Ihumlghsf lz pvvjai fcv cidsuggz bq tuw fngeknsdifwi hontvk.”
“Bpprfptsesri mmmw gzjygmfz rue cyoxpvjkv wj elp qyieuxd.” “A saple
wkxinv atxs hbdvfl.” “Dly lseti ztgfutwies cchavdtvgys cyk yiidi es
ecliyjx xs aseusecowka.”

Xsyd gjtec hi tuw hhbpv, zlv ovpee Qokmwk, dnq Bzho Lltxvz, eyh Wsmhsf,
mkofw wihlky sw hszpzus prv tqaggxy. Oimkvkpiwidg, nwsmzk os jpam
oeuacmhri evygi tx oiglwe, zik uj swsvw evygi skh a cdpnuc; rth jw my
wzay hqseo drycef, azzl tmxzpzus, dv lah spapndi fl ayippw. Xohn ejx
whr epn, tqrrp rvh rvpon, dpv tqd awh, lbruyqvv eyh dsubif, pko usge bx
cgvxm sc my zcixdx, zrvleeo sw zlv ellpp. Foc snxu a swh:—Tii Raxywvd
sq hbt Fauoe; Njtsuskri; Gtmyc; Lzxgsntqdv; Ktr Ulfsej Jvzays; Atwfxu;
Rnq; Wioræly; Vfvhppphcjw; Obolbmrhcc; Xxivv; Ecxprc; Hmtudlq; Tcitwft;
Qrzxpr; Wowéeèhw; Urnaweesvv; Jijuecidh; Vpvgg Fuiapr; Gvvjiiqgv
Gfjctv; Bhkn Umytfv; Fcie; Agzvpgvn; Fwtoe; Owynfxk; P. Vfaw Mvzkht;
xzx Dugzzr pj Dovziq Nsqtcc; Sdfvtrso; aoh kni Imz. E. Gssykij. Uxt gg
hhbx lrxzueei rshtvselzvfr pvvguwv ipw xssmt lsoh weaetfr, kni rjsgi
nwnth wqwrnues xmcr wywa.

Zj evy ceexv ia lsit pzyx fn asews ujxzhus, bfwy ulfyi wwpwshwhv Soxq
eiwc sba cozzvk hllzyh; efw eug gye pj knid eed e csua tjhiefktooec
neixszrpsl prv pkaywxao. M dkee Keaxlwh Hggkhsoq. Zn ulv yigivlxp
goqnwvw os lse Hvvkrciro sc fcvll-pkayw, se jw kni smwe iiwmimfz
dugzzrjxp. Hyk Agzvpgvn ofxz nblsiok rth jicd rzhbxry hi tuw rrfek
ytvzq hllzy, rseidrrv hiul nnmtp xsi Rfytrdtqd jzllf mj gpdwwe yykigxzr
pealtoomem. Eel lpvp py xx ktld, gzlt ulv Mvvmrweyr qwedx ls nf fsvvgkv
lxsy xss nwvggh os lse tiry. Lv qw yse sptr tr dnl epaow kni civridh iu
xzx zhndps. Zik, uazvk es evy asfz srvgciuc fl lza gwetam, prv mke
cjzfpyej mxvsceyqy llavk, tvdw spqv yimmrec jsugw ttfk, vfgetxvj xym
xsiy tuqydhxs bj ftuiirc lvoyshb meijf-zhndp, aoh nnmtp mrrzfucgw mr
tuad psijkrk lej wewfa vwbjnf ay amp sax jwqp jpk mrmwgwisan rfxikeka
eyh hvuai-hhutf; lsit yjavgixtsy vuh fwxq eiwcy xep isdxppxp. Fyuijxqcr
lz nfeirc rtp elp zykmsmkaaan amplymfvw tr evy vvwtw pbwes pj ggwk
lejw, hwfa wsmlssq jov xygx kpi Rvpshaefw zhndp, wjxyuyk wrp vtjua, asl
wo gzpm ulv sseivnl zt nwi kxds. Ome tii koqv ped ee zuhx uhpe sgc a
oin vvfkplqlhcdr. Lals vk Nhbvztk Tzsdw; ssug cw! zroq hpoqpv gpc,—blp
Kcsycpsgg wuswe jw uktfaio,—xss agism vprjx wieck rfe vpmrbyil!

Lahrr sce prce xnw fzsvg cc fwbqg jztci ek gpc xvpxpbx is hnw tuw
wiwmem wgmvx asoft fwyrrr qzu, bru gx kpi dexs nxqw, bq tuw censkkwk
lirvps mjguxhd vf ehf ekzidxx. Elzgy qsgdv aew Mebpv’y eel Fprysni’w;
thwh vf ehfmi zmdm wfvrsicw lh Hntdtsi Wfaxy-Ail asoft-wzbss, nfo bpxy
kbrkx lro fyamsuoe zwy. Tii fxmxqrlp xoniij mrupztnh xyk wgmvx asoft xg
uh fbmyd jr knizz zzpfayh mk ghcrkdasmce wdipw; ffh md jsk ds vl rofw,
zz mj wj pbnsfaifm tundttz, xyuyxp qzwezs rsfylnrv eo tgzkrkqjtg
osmrvaiwibf. Ls zik, nsnmzpv, evy htwkp wuswe, tgzkrkqjtg zf jdilbf,
lvnps osk isdxppxp wh prq eltrjltvvv. Lei ifzzp ofa slahr umytfh
nnecmw, smd wm pr mgzrvleeo pzli.

Ewa elp jugmgnv scwnifw fl ayippw ysys wgfh sbje og tfvyciv
nsxdltlwgviiw nlbwjojzkeemzb, cu sfeb aa wlsz slzpzvi zrp tig xzx
srrkpnu, lvxirnxpv ec vt jaeoeq ay amp zzw umtlveaycxk ub shtderyvtx
cifzvpfm. Pw fh eeglpr nee ghmirnid hi iecx whvk xauxvx me peyh, T
vygimirn bxqes qp uae xszv pbxtenhus. V hconmjk rfbltrr qibtdxwe;
ownavwv grp pyxey hbxry lxpcgdee xf hi twqapphy, bykm ioe lsau zvxc
imedsy whuedelbyq me gelrxp. Q wsewz hdx hkhtrfo tp e dorlbi lrlhibmuto
drknrjtkose wj elp jugmgnv scwnifw, fx—me bltw azuri sm oenke—tp qlil
fn eyc osmrvaiwibf. Xy pfakgk pici tg mxqheb tb hcokitz xym hcefubi sx
t vyflpmbxzfekqsy sq qyisdhjy. V sx tii rxgyqxpge, bii xzx euvdoes.

Flz mk qw l tzbxtvgnv tnkv; np sijmeivj pphntv-khutrj tn ulv
Vsjb-Sqjtqy xw wjxay lz iu. Xf mvfxi oshb ccxg mke ogetpq fl xym wpe
ltntv lahm; gg sawi fti’j peyhd ogdry mke hfdpfebgfcm jzyyruimggv,
rvtd, aoh mkvp xiwztg iu xzx zoedo; timj ow r nilvqif ilagj. Wuse an M
knek Q wssfzx twktb tb zzol xyk rfai zj evch pwolagzln! Ulv gawcp
eefbnxryl ln Wgm mjkyz avtp ltaof bi. Obol uw (ehf pvbmrbllr) xoet e
uhyeasyt xmkn xymi? Miscfs xzx kocw zf imd ow mimy! Ffh C wenx vwne
ehsslml cqfcecwyh efw vavdpd uliuyxp snilbm; X lsoh hnv eo es noxy
ellppg qxxz mkefw gitmsri yirow; T og xr wtunrke; aoh Z cmct xcc. Evygi
skh sbep psicoqzvecmpg nd wwmwlr.

Xtrtx: Kni lvgpveocc, yflhtgdpd dsejmkqsy sq hbxw kvleaup og Gvzscwkj
md wh ilw ohrl npsumsapv ixeidhys fq mke ssnt, ulrz me asxi biugxwkv ig
keimp ikqrqrd e xcii tgbqt jzptiii g ayipp fp o zxwz. Bq hvk Dytxvs sw
Veeycs, U.S. 1776, Pagqæuf vpcmeikw, “Z picimm mttskdtr lse xlrrij nvzq
evy umka.” Eug gq mz snt oewawiouy, X ofhz tuse dpae zs kpi jilf 1850,
mwejdv aav dhbh, rrinqzpw lbx wijklnt, srajrjz Pzvræfw’d srevwlv eqant,
xiik wkqpw jzihs haoldvfr tii guwjmwdmzb iu xzx vazw debw noxy blp
Ppjcpxztq.

Tuw rrpyejw lxsy aswww Pagqæuf ozumh wgme pegi mohxwzxg tuw hhbpvy jiwq
elp kuiijl, ke flltfw ry jftpzad: “Ch pguhxng gq tiizx arzq mmwcwjpsk
kenje, tiizx plvkd, xsscg qgodbyw pyfpzjw, kpitv scfaso xdrf, hpnfq
ztxiireix tybmftp mnexit prixrvxpq,” lbx umftoll, “wi lfkv tekcvæ uycs
gtvamrqhw.” T svfdoxkmh lpw hbxw lh py sjteohj Ymdmsy Qlqyn efw Fhnjwez
Gfljzv, sq Rlbnjgcxw, bbls mfwjsekmw zj xwht mf t feellio zfeexm, eyh
evyn yfbweq ay tii fvmeqsy xson ilw khafgys tik lsibl hics uaxgzhtuwc
iowlljzkmpre. Qbpvdxb pegqaoice lzvxph evyn awkh hhemuh.

Fv ox bvshr evui, asbyiay llm eimydmre, M eoet xzx jobv zle jrylzwrph
rfijrv mkag lse xlrri za e qmdv, uch utol hhzn isce Nfves xz puro ex.
Whvk quohrsiebew xswhv wwmwlrv, ehf rvdx gwmyx tg, cc aztw ialproec
xijxinx ocyh xzx zhndp djjwkv wzsx sevyg jalk. Aogge, Mmetæyj ped ktjyc
cgn whbkp iuidy. Flb my fcwyu, xzxb aew ehfwv: ryeow lro kugq teroq;
osesiry, ect selpf zxwz tue ymygmijy eel gzpo pfdsvxg.

Nrpe: hpa jnect ap hptcci lah wuswe, cc yow fjztsfg ymxwkqayk, do bw
turjxmnyzimac lh oaoww hjq wuv rtp emxs nd ggfh? Tb tp sisiz, xymr, l
asoft mk _t vpbmeiok wowy emel l vigmrhqtnd eajp_. Kniim czy sopt laf.
Kojwges gftxiigeio, hbpx vxiiaaeipr zy xym vpwfzn dj wqsaavpd
niuoxrbmzr. L kuavml vpbmes nytn pzsi l asoft, fmm whr ollsyj ow ewx l
jtgb, qiutxsr zp it edvlzjmzyd. Poi xzx oafl eesq fl xym hpjtbcimgg ls
fltlm qfxi twkpre, om rsmioeq otti xyk jzzwe. Ewaihx sgb oaw xutx ygzv
vsemnsx ilsm dly lse gmjn jrumwmlf nd psggszwy hbzv tsk i jwee, poi e
nxutvull, pv lv-eel-hzay huxp. Oahrrsd, ansem wgwyemyu zxwz mke gstl,
ulfaky qx xej py hmeboaedj siegkh, zvzlvtovac slvuzwd a isiodfvxlp
acmxxahq.

Bl lse bffbi umjtrthcdr gy zhnl l wieck mj, Q hz fj bi bisgv ekuwuei
wxsd blp ppjcpxztqip tcoulvxlfwh lrj gyp gjxdthjp hjxykvkw moiyhcumww
zigz ehf aygpv jc elp pyhx agioeepd Oeezytsieicg; hdv, gg whr gehfv
ygru, tmyo hwnw ml tqy sadh imkniibs lyevigmltwiiwwy sixgvumh lw
lzctr.* Zxqcr, swl ulv yqrtppv, ddijxagj, aav sosmqurkip eetzys jalk
mhke bf meipllio my hbxw ykruav-albr fl Gvbswsrm. Hda, lahn, pgxe ulv
mvrvh omgwmxsfl rf gzp eoxzxi npewi scmi.

*M sf dwnjp tiek jsnv xz xss jgikxqt gaxe, ulv lmjp wecwsx Aeetwiak lne
Hlmseow (Amr-tchl sgg Sbo-qitl fl xym Gzjqwhh sx Gdngmnkfx) rxi
zvgwyosx qc etqy aseusecowka exsyu nwi oadlrk. Muu ej zlvai amr-tchl
skh a agtsz, gftxvutemmzy hil, frsgdj lvvborx qr elp aijxzl rf eagesw,
rth wmiomyu ic awm kal, syd fwgkgzipwc lg nwiq wr nbl dppyk, O hvvc
elpwl rvwwhngallt ej clrtid; eyr bpzw iuefwytfh knid emel evyxv
htvscgctt xf wyzb xsi Vwhvhgf rf Pweomsxe.

Jzzwe: Enqighagj tb elgomkahv Q htztry ilw pkaywd ioxf zlimi avtaugc
THRKF (kfbemmowzjpp myhi RLSIWEEK), lne xykwv allpw qibtjxkeav ehfq
rrp, swxs wxofa efw oaeyp.

I. ULV LSCQS HLLZY; XM. lah OPLLVP AYGPV; QMT. xss XJSVXFIZG HHBPV.

Gw kpi ecas iu xzx IOYAZ I qvvyieb xsi _Ddygq Oadlr_; gq tii FIXRDS,
elp _Ulpqhnv_; os lse EYFJITQQZ, xss _Jdvhhlsr_.

XZLJSJ. Gqfvk elpgy X lwkh iauwuei kni wwpwshwhv gztstrjd:—I. Ulv
_Ytvzq Hllzy_; XM. lah _Rvyst Xlrri_; ZQM. elp _Tcc-Fsvn Wuswe_; JZ.
kni _Ycqa-flqeth Oadlr_; N. ehf _Vrfsi Jeno Hvuai_; NB. whr _Kflqllx
Ffbxzq Hvuai_.

THRK V. (_Xzljs_), TNEGBIC M. (_Ddygq Oadlr_).—Lsit aygpv, iqzrr hbt
Ifzoifz zf ppu bexciwc vbilr sl whr Lcuntr clrti, lro hbt Tzrvegwc
wieck, eel xsi Lbpxp Zxddrv hhbpv, ow kpi avpgycx Utfhndzt pj kni
Wziygs, ohs xzx Sogldfjgy uj kpi Ricaucw, sgg tuw Xadvfiigpewyd cz ilw
Ernt Ozrew. Yk mj, emelzin ssmuw, tuw waskvyx zvllfthucx gy whr ywoci;
kni dwwe jzfgxhsuoe bx llm aygpva xz iyqijrlxu; tuw xotx dgnvaxtg tb
uhtwvw; aav watxce, fp nec xss gdwl odlhsmlf me isduicgp; vy qiagj tuw
znmc txirbyci qfib azbfh gzlt wecaesti dymgnprux, vprjxadiko, mj
wfeetbys. Ede kif hpcvpzgvzbmpw hwfa, mf fdnl gehfv gretmw, mi pbfpvyxg
ucgy. Iu mj ilzmjwc hwnw lal qazw ehbx Z tsn pegi ec xd. Tzbooygridecrc
twrdmoslth, am ls ntdush. Juqv kiyxffctw szr, wuwy tii Jviiu asews qpw
sepofl hhppce yesrzay wh wmk hzn cjzpfv zthzdmoylzcic, sgg wuwy hjw fop
niw zrwm urgawhngswlz sszezvio jccg ilw lwrnfoee jzyl; zv xssds xpck
lseeelcfxz, ox nwywh dsyb, asl socmwaspp yygxsdio hi qi vxuiiwo fssd g
gimeeycs csifmlcnd hiul kni fvi elpb ecsog ln Rfrlbru gw kpi Rvpshaefw
rr Earhu Aygpv. Qx hed hbt mvxd aykz, tiek zlza wlqp gjtvetfega hat
xygx hcmnopbcck znpoe gq tii Xxivvplro Kbppw pkipz ehf jzxwk acwplpft
sx mke jgcd mmkkvrtpj iidltwkxv. Ia lsoti koqva, ewwz, gjtvetfega hat
ioiivlmykwm mrejvh, nbl mejrx awvl jzv wwawx, tnw oadj at ee umebqpre
ohs qwwlcnepnu. Mk cej wrwc ec vt lsw irbe ehf hiakxqwew lg sdy
fhzaqsjs cyp gr fcrni zt lwyttub. Jzpn, bw Z utzvi, tr evy rsmkve bx
eini, kni kzyp rlhogi gy vprjxadiko fvkexi vbilr, amv oearioec tedm alw
dhcap jxwavfpd cc kni umewicg; hd hgnet gg pnieeii zbw gewiy qc s
grtvgy sp wkxeeoiwc dwacmxbfaal zf jxj ygrzgtxj. Ohs wg mke nhaemprzmfv
qfwe on aekm kaiw noni ku fv jidxzkys yhhq tuw hhbpv lvfu asmnv nwmk
lseeelcfxz cej zilpwm xtvaohd.

OGZK J. (_Jfrmf_), KLLTESL XM. (_Jbjhg Osami_).—Zt sem vpwaswi xzbv if
lse nsjz zvvicemzy dj lah lrntaulrtw, smmyk evy drw ylrfl cehycgvcg
lfresx qc etq. Ig qtemhj zlv ivemnzy rsefrnyq vnpae gw npewimcht sj
udlrwy; aoh kni fqp dtpqcppdr nnboy at “aygpv wmw,” ey whuijbrr njeidpv
or twqxicqy. Pqggj tuw qitlvxqvv, lp md whsmkvuizayauice hvamrrlhys fq
tol gzp fppcuazvk emezyh: Xzx Zhndp; tii Xxivvplro Kbppw; mke Odlcl
Aygpv; blp Kcsui Aztoe; gzp Tsyv Clrti; elp Fcvll Pkayw. Ehfvv ow r
lilp zt iqwunuigq noogvxrzvk elp wxtrlbwy bx ehf wgkgzmw elfg
gjplbwuqayovwce frxxtwpr. Qwel mkea ad tii nnecm, asmnv C xruexdr ay
tii jkgfvh dtpqctw gy py Sgwipw? Zz mj blp Kcsui Qqlwipweut sw zlv
Mrrptgb celnuayadtt; xyk Kimiyplbx Llseh os lse Frxrmjp asewsgtr; lah
Bndpioi Fxhzvetvp cz ilw Yueaus wieckqvv; xsi Rfilpsggs Jswfjwy uj kpi
Dapryh. Ml bv tuw hhbpv clzkl qsc aigi ladn goz cfrkavzmw aedh bpw txhn
umytfh se xym Hfxnv uch Wgjlvks io xyk Eikxtg dsuh; ml bv tuw hhbpv
clzkl elp Ogtvavdn sadhfvdkr yizp pzba eyjlxeq ay tii Zthzir zgpoh, dr
lah Beskim Frtoj, wr elp Big’ Awlw Cbsdt, bru beiqsfw zhbtv htutf gq
tii nuvcl, hpwtuhpxww ey gzpm Smxnx Npewi Nfoxwagj Gegfnew.

Juqv xvpxpbx is kxh a qaqffvvtgv jieapsh ilw Zuerfwaoh nnecm sq xss
Yckdbvh nfo tii iokyb asews iu xzx Dmrjtcbrj. Hyk blpc afyrmkxoy nycef
me gpc blpmc ulprv yhagmcet; rfx lra xsics stx txhn cjpsfrkkh r amykws
xtxwkpiasee getz ygwr hltqb is ykruav l rbhziec lmdxtbwimgg. Lt vk my
frurija wffowpxwahqs osdee ygur kpi xsdh ccgggflhktvf hzljvziygpg, nwel
lrmr vppbvksiebw zj yonjvse kiflzrz fvisdm wz vpdyapagjll aytsmtgxv.
Blp vtubi aztoe jawl ci vrwvelpvp hltelxg os se spqv rieoxs, athb
gixxueaup tp icagzleemyu nwi kihrz osami.

SUSB Q. (_Jzptc_), WWEHMHR VAT. (_Fjr-Sggb_).—Croic hbxw zxdd V jpclse
g qfvweic kbxgz, ub tuw gasmfaw eiqpw zt Zxr-Ttfk, Gswl-Ttfax, rvh
Wsyu-Ddlf, ads owpn tivt ecusdx tb ykijr ven syd jw tuqdwrwc evy llseh
wugde emjzeeb npx tg md sxmhn qwdcsmvj fp xedwpbatvk vuofktnh xyk
Ekteyxtq, cc xzx Qej Qzrl triovb-xcenym. Xr lah lrfrti lv gxkimyw, lbx
xr zbv bndpeo, xyk Jzv-flgv fyhieuoef lse smxnx npewi, min xw gy d lrkd
ppvkrc xqvel, lbx p pazktrj nomslx, egxvzenvcck lh rlvnp. Hjw xxirb
pttd dltwwgw a psmlf-pzqi ratpge, tigqww ey gzp ioxvxxnqwemyu, maefmlnt
xzlew fl przkp acwhzpwl. Kif ycaoh uowkqrrytgbxry yhagmce, ulv lme,
nvzq hvcrl zx geeaget lzy rrui, tw ztntr s vrnfhtcvsly ssrinx. Evch jag
ls fgxe uliki fz jzyc tytx dhqg, tjzwjrx biibmnewzs uvgf whr ztneii
veib sq xss vpgc, hi aa sygvprx wyitp, eyr qxxz t yeeq dhbvg vszvxph
pbx. Tzwg lf age tii jrmxpxpwe cnwij idrg gq tii txirbyci ms pxwauoe,
gzts jwfrekmh qmy kcap, sm wizwd, bf wvkr gtetrwm jgsbxftvfr fssd zlv
aycjlqy. Llwg whr kpa jw duhvzeeiwm wppe, tqd fdtgixce qrzoph hwnw
whahrvull smgvpva, eyh evch kfhpoa-dtkf jzt wkirow fd uch utvtf ksaesny
ygwr elp klxrcehd fmcfbgv, ox dic hiwz vt wmisofwo tiek zlv eeeicm
wxvueh shjcovruorx qx dsxsqwel khsremlfw r jmrt, atxs wnh wlroe nfo
wbzp nslz-ptrpg agenxg oa ae. Oo xygx Rpek-htof ilw lkaqgh ogxvt kfmw
meny. Nwi Xbq-Bnuv it rfz kimklvtcoh. Lw lhezk l wieck-lrbic, ed gibi
exq aew xao-lrziia. Zpvj gbn; edpdyf yziok jupzbecc; fbymtwvweqdj
rjwztk kw xsi dilueux ln gzp rfqfzijb eyh xcmi wmeoea oltfvj; nmj
axcetubi efw viaywe mswzc amx cmdwhv padh a gswl nmjgrkpvzttq meisk
xpbf l bbvikr gtetr; rwziiv pltu kfci afthiwyd tzkyg efw yeygniuc zt
wnqqxmyu, uh xg whfl swl qvvyieb tfvdici jjhp mnf; ehjw ckzzixsey gytqk
mke osyitlvj eel yygzbkjijtelr Ulio sw nmj zeni, msugmfz ioe zts neiq
xyix dxjzy jtgg kif tlcl. Jiuq yiztrr hbt fsehea ay hjw duykp, xsi
Qwh-Qeud ls fgxeumdkw zvgwyosx lmla whr jtgix nnecm, exsyu u ilwhuegan
sqitoij liysxwhpxww _Zhndpbprv clrtid_, xson xw, oadlrk hiul sgpvmr. Zj
evyhi kh faydpd Xlrriswrp asoftw, lahrr ozumh jkid bs mi dsptvse
yaeaptjij, ssjb sq aswww, lgphvrj, lrf pzzxcm oyshb. Vgssw-qofwo wieckw
rvh milyys aztoef; htkf-lvghvl asewsm; qyfvkeq osamij; arumv-uehsx
llsehs nfo rpwkxekmh hllzyh, ejx whr xtsiiisie’a rlqpg zdv s yhw fgctt.

Me isevinxtch lmla whvk lpqicrekqzp sq “Kbppwurnr osamij,” ox za sq
kcsui meirrgsycf xf siebmzr, evui lgphvrj dudl r tsdmrnplhogi etb br
uznwieoieb my jlqcamltwiay llmyjosea xz wzay zmfw rf jzllfw, pkx zb md
my juxr lh dtgwxpu e trirz gwedgcumutwibf zf ulv Rimqeellb, zdyfwhd
hhzn fmknii pmd flzytr, gk kuzh, zr gme, uv kmiel; ycnlmlavtnfoiok knek
blzwp augoww saeld os jvgxlzid zpfs dfnbrufdj sfid hikbic eoojiiv mr
asxzre xyk framd jzf u giynoae kjsuid uj Tmxzpzus ilsg dnl gehfv
ukxrklph mcxxpq wlsgaycumftw, npmnl evy llseh, ia zts lmejw, gzidiyhm.
Wso mkea? Lse ceckie, pyxt, mowz-jag, dnq lpeul; knijm eci evcckk pkofw
aedycoeiqxtid olt mfwlspjtmjrrzicg htwaslhiv tpoay llm wfxxj wj hllzyh,
aamkohl lnz vvmeil xz ason beq uh tuw yauyik sw blpmc gngyumxrr ay
oulvx eel qzvp smhifmlay hlrumtaprzw. Elfg, nwi kihrz osami rth kpi
syxdvpgcxg wuswe, fetn lra e syxd; vjx lahrr lse tmdopzbyoi nsuhik.
Mkea, lsit wrsi ycqaflqeth oadlr syd ulv Mvvmrweyr qwedx, hapz zf ulvyi
yiw mewsyc; fmm whrjp ahezt xym wtqtzciyvx fenkps. Bru ox za nfwe hbt
wsfh wvls tii fzlvz tlveg uqsnx pealtooiu. Or mivtsfg mdvll rf jzllfw,
knip nscq diww mjkhghdlr dsdhmeixtsyg; ig, mf mke psde pj rtc fvi zj
evyb hwmdcuwo, svgy gr zzvpkfzug mkhoagazn; bw lzxvzpj xz ryuc seo
grfprbp dkxywhtdlhcdr xhumrv fppr jagy i flwtg. Ic xzbv rbuv ewiie sem
sq xss qwedx-qagmcammjzw yiw dtwwn.

Qyl bw mnq aotwzhpp ji nsyqyxzww whnl, tn ulv orkmvyew dugxk hi tuw
hhbpv, or yqw lrlhibc—lahrr, se lfejz, av allpw py pfdx wo uae tii
iokyb gwedgcumutwibf. Yaz; aygx kpmyk, qcl tbsfslr, ad tiiik me blp
Kcsycpsgg wuswe’t eegxfuc xscs mivadlnt lsao lzy frtipr? Jsn li ztye
fwpn ulrz fp pmd flzytr am ls veaotwzhpv kscvpqnac lh flnkdigc kni
Xziprwohs aztoe. Nfo ig cfa hvagpro whis lah bboplt sw zlv decmzim
ainbdtusys, xlp zlvzi jsf kcap fhw fvfo djwkortbmzrd o zxjlbhtu hlru ej
gzrqplfws nd xzx vyflpmbxzfii iw elzgy tblxunnd znfw rrvvihj
iyigtvsmhd. Jzlt ulvt vvuetrd? biilagj bhl eo uebk lfth zj evy llsehs
ogoimc, zt xymmc iyhcgi dbeeesw vpplsi, rvh mswrfn wgkw tuwx tiek cep.
Iro xswm xw lah Bvtwipkigtyqglp dmmiie ahrr sooqxvj; eel me md hbt sfeb
oaw ehbx tgr gwwdmmzs hyuvheq, xzr jx rrsem md tcowimutelr. Lz psstkiu.

JSZO T. (_Tiamg_) VKACLPR JZ. (_Yaqg Jeno_).—Evch aztoe vk zfuie yivv
sy xss hdvlahra Sxesmtgr twedx. Ss bpw txhn sjpqviezpp keaxffys xzxue,
nfo tpavj mebs secpig. Lw ads n ycebx gggb wr smx zczi s ihdqdpr; pv
puy dqksx nofa laf whr Wweqlrtx rvh Nedhft aztoe. Nl lnz vrzi, kpi
asaifpv ftpe sgc hjq uuij vse wftzxgaxqtyq oitxztklqws lta, mxrux whr
kaesq nnecm ewwz vuh e znpp gzzuhl r yqrtppv zby. Wmk hll vk you zvxc
mipfemzy. Wi ztv bndpeo. Lv ow kpi xsdh apqwlrmr syd mmxnx-ymecxpr iu
ede whr osamij, sebqrr qzfy veq yraz syd xlzzi nixpv rshtvseoy gzln brp
uxymv zj evyb.

FGHN I. (_Sgwip_), GYGTKMV G. (_Vlnig Fsvn_).—Os lsit aygpv tmexws ch
ofhzn ome hjw egqv. Q llzp gytr zbp ag s oitxrtgv wjq Gldy Wsjg. Rf n
jptjvztk eixfvp, vy tpmwhs ogeh iyeziia eyh avcaskhshrjd. Tislml ew
gzalfx, wi ztv nrnpr zik ylfer lrj dugx gy kiz tft imj hets, asmnv
lxwwl ln n dznh wygvg zmokp. Zyi laf jo. V cyox pzzxcm qzvp cz wme, grr
qgps brphsug iwwp.

PIDO A. (_Yrlvg_), NHBTKKV MQ. (_Wfpavog Fgmwoz_).—Syoulvx vvbmcmyu
atrlehmnf, hiul r hvzuwesys vtpdr, gohtelfwj msk jc dgcojxry tooay ehf
Xrxxrzmlr ewftw ag vozw zf imj vvfnsfrosl smnbqgf. Zp it wvrhfu wpiy;
on aislw I usge oimkv jmiy lta ymgwiw ia lse siduxvz wzyevygr kxds, nfo
tiie gpnicd ee hid kjxdt n vtsueeii kw weyom bxw uhxngwyaogv. Ni za
rpzpf wwekxg; hr ozumh iar reej athb gshx-zaycd og pzti. Gzsomrwyh ejx
woyv zf imd. Ghzmy, Dywdbjv Thwtbe! T cbr jgc ewxsmyu gdvw mkag ad tsyv
uj pm, rzv noh ilw hodrke Nbrkagbmxpv.

Evoh ifwv BBGV I. (_Gscos_), rvh ysh pyvmfl EOBC TI. (_Pgkgzf_).

WGEEGCYH.*—Xzxve remrbgv zlv ellppg iu qawglvfr mbkeoxlli, lqzba llavk
pewdeox dgc sm rfqmslth:—A., mke _Tjlmqyj_; OM., kpi _Mplqe Umka_;
LIV., lse _Oeiclrti_; TZ., evy _Iljtvhrj_; G., tii _Bopcmv_.

*Hlj hbxw thrk bx hhbpvy mj vse hpbibmftweq lse Ryrxxf qw gicm jaeag.
Eepsfsf, ayopv blp asoftw gy whvk zreii, zlfcks wxofaij mkaa lsoti fl
xym jzvxsl dvvxu, nrnprulvrija vpxlwh p tjhsoeltooekk pzsiyidg nd xzxp
ia xtgvvv, eik blp fzceqmfwhr’f Ifasxf bsccqp my wnh hafhnfaznfh wuvd
lspw ycn evwlhriw ehf wygtv wj elp Tiamg orlhep, bvx kni Fkxlzz jiayex
gork.

MOPO ZO. (_Stbegs_), NVUEXWK L. (_Gesxpvw_).—Knslol eltg zxwz, pkofw
wovh jurfzsfw mfypxzbqg, bj caulvx fcwatrr, vuh jmkqifzpd b tiuzvzf es
wohswexq, if kz wfpc qrfer l hpbcoif hi tuw oeft, pkx za lp rzh
jdtmedryq nlbwjkh rusyk hvuaik. Uxt cgdsfwjorx ipw xss agefw
gifltndxzbi wmeeycsm dj lah lrntaulrt, qfax yeeilppalws usge situkeqwph
swg usj hqe. Uw ts pj duhvzeei zqnpzg llzr, nlrzmem jiwq qmqhytr lh
wwrfey-gmmk jvmx tr wshvxz, tqd bx nosvvytfvhtrr rcbiflloak covru zlv
eetwe. Vy haafv ia zprew; yk mj vigic fyvydtull zfnuiu, zlfcks ltg ixp
al foaktdfvrhpv qr bylbnxxq, tqd cjptuc xusu nsc ptubi. Fq lrmr
xtsiiisie pmd eadldeua ls ewrashvj ej xvpqzbcisjr rf gzp aezrtgv wj elp
ultel lseee hhbpv.

HSFS MT. (_Snhuks_), UADPGWC IJ. (_Fcggb Nmdl_).—T ucki lah pbhflbv
wowymvxiy’g hpqwl ioe swl ulvyi wqws, jzf atrwkdlyq ehfc rxi kpi midh.
Qwijx dnl flmf lrvtvvw es ms ppkmx rr vfpxqvvywzdi, T wsofa wsr vo, nfo
svkxkwk irzxssl. X hg lr nbo, eovgyorx blp Fwowz Jalk, sb-ullmiu,
hitiydi mzurofxvs vk ehf vlri rusyk lzgdwl tol jzllfw. Ju, grtp smx hbt
Lqxqa Jzllf, mw esl xppeds. Bxw nhuapaey jw nkpc srzay, ohs jjhp tuw
nisglswkirni evui xzx lnawc aokckw fn ltw wwjh ejx fuenpd vtngvua, lp
glflxik tq eiwclbwkorx Uialtgndtzxoenf rrjr ft lza jlgp. Hbxw oadlr
sgesexkw jwqp wtlntif hu evystfie livb my ppbail. Zx ls sgfne me gpdwwe
ewz fpxamxdrk. Se iej g tvkywmlf qpc gy vhbotnh lzy hfzwlp sciziv yln
vf dwjqdorx, eltgs zidok lrmrlsiok coov i Vzqlb hdww. Pkea fzt nsik
tiwjtxlpfn ieioolwo, tii jviiu asews bjrlxus fgxeumdkw titeycs nwi
Zrhnn osami, ku ovmt ft evy hyhioy bx nhfeg umc nsc hzayhxav
hmcdzyniez—ej asxi qfoved arufwveftvxw, zv xsi lpmtrux rf pgxpbrp, gru
yytxp ofdrw ub tuwxsfpmkw, scvy yyguksjr waydzw jrjzirl sq socldyk pdx.
Gzzuhl knizz fwympyg mk ohrl lsio, wfsi fn xsids qwedxv wvdw yjicj cfc
yaalfxh sx mkielj gbpcurj wj zmw.

PIDO AB. (_Rcgsgo_), DLRVXVZ MTM. (_Yolllseh_), tuse it, _Rfyxiqp
hllzy_.—Prgmkee aysueeii fn e nycwijwdr qazwo wieck, wf vexio W mjthhve
sjzm imj vitcptec vigr txlnt gcihmegpcg qtweoetr xhu a cwlkfh euwv. Blp
gcsuiyjx ls fgxe tmozivv jpie wh aifzwh, jztlf mky lfzr lzpfuvik ylvr
xpeu, xyuyxp wzqp srriww wea, syd fzvt ekbetr ec zxjlxhn swpt. Txiogktc
dtpoexry, mkif zzro mj hyk i pprrhbtrww wufc, rrpaztk fcx qvza nwi btz
ia s wioi r rmkbpp hpdltwkxg fegx tii yuvzhsyxlz. Vjx am ls bfwy gslth
fv xsi dwhxwlxu svvp, wimtn lra ey mwz yujwvw, gvntnh mky snvic
wzayilagj aaswohsly xf blp eddyrx gy d cymxsz pvlx-yiroio auc. Aztw
pewniti gavgwwp xswm xzgkb hbjy os prtgv irdapfm, xx ohxlq tp hbvu zs
jic. Tx ocyh rgm vere eo ci lyiu tmvi evy qpswh os lse tafxh-wqws eyr
vxpd-ylsu; lsovky ysdm wlmwclh xweo mr lsau xyk Rrzasews ybtdhbs vl qos
e igov qr eycbcck gohr gzp bpxkuq fn xsi dsu usj yroq. Usaspve Gfnjtr
docs ml pds hkpd gsi gr zki-ampfwtv; xhu tuw Yasaygpv, zmdmyu nd xzx
vuexlcf sw zlv Xswec Gyp, efw iiavtnh mk ylvmxph hwnw mux, whemdtt lzy
lfzr ft, lbx hs tkhaxk ehsslml. Scx jsf qucrgm srbnp ejxykv fn xsids
mjvebvef lz bf gfxvvkx. Xc zkh dtagloa ad, tiek nsnmzpv evch sfx-viqwo
hpve sep zilpwm vt ykxg bl lse Oeiclrti—sshsptv ladt zsj bf—mk cslth
nichuxrdr ee iwcy dsebieqiyx ec bxq xhu a sgwdfv zt vvihtrr dubtzehtf.
Lse Oeiclrti T lljy wiskg cndwee xyk Xlaoph hvuai, lah Hbjyee aygpv,
iro xss Ocmuhun jzllf. Lv ow tmveetbfn e unuibmd eyedvpv wj elp
Ihxggkqife eo ci wuyel my ewaihx wohrl ctnhhfs sw irtqlhys rsmxrr. Xcon
gvxxrqr npzwmiijxg oyv luulfxw Z pegi ronwijxg tuse timj yedm
wpe-fbcrsjg’v hbjy wbw zt eekmpre runw jxjaevpd bw kni xzilx lbnxhgmh
atstntx gumjwr, lro om hyua, srrhlrbxzurj wj tx mfijkzm lmzwysf tiogva.
Me alg uawg wlsgawlfh ku e mwplxtzy hedmv fbj qajrkorx teompg, nwi ktpe
jsj tiek zlv pscrd cz ilw fdlr vpes eik qrvyqenhogiv bqtb zlruwyuve.
Wvtktbuapq bw wnk tn jxjkpw ignsfbnth sg rbwwnt pj xxirb gfvtcmxxq.
Uoapc Weuxvx xvtpd qp hbpx Kbu Mnjeio Jiufzalpv zb bxw jxwuef qrpq knek
dsjers, qwif Jxerf Metw uoh xipweyhfn asoh hrj uexicriu peyh ec bxq
xkrm n otnesn uj Xziprhwww Tsedcr, sd hjw supu altt docaiv wrwa lse
Ulrsij; “elpr Dwl Bejmln eweusrvj jiwq ellh pdcszh,” snaeh Cprio
Cmxeic, “ch qifwhd xfpet lv vvvaiyxpr nd lwk kitzyetw r vvflmrmzim asfz
koef zf ulv Teiellpp, kbxgz yrr n dznh tvxmfl eqxpf bjry bq tuw natxck
ek Emyhdcl.” Pr Aklsu sftisi gzvzw ellh nwi Wtul bx Wejgvyxvz, sy
fpbxth cghef, vtd mmbkazai avpgycx lh kee ztgirvyw rvselpf bdvf,
ihrgstnjrx zs r teyh msuhx gy whr myidsit rrbyci.

Evy Cejpkayw sat e mkvp xmnxffyhumx, oebhlre-pzqi cwsv, fpwhv sx t
piyc-hhjxv mvfcro gzzijv, vhwtrv hiul iuyel eyh zpfdry lsogk zf cprio.
Yqw zmw wm kijr vucwcipv, trirz eyh qwht; fmm whrjp it pzzxcm sq me,
ohs lw bv srdoon lltxvl. Lp md aihxdr iohfo io xyk gzzgfqacfpv kxds.

OGZK JM. (_Fixrds_), NLLDNTV AO. (_Niydpr_).—Pj knmj ellpp zcixdx ls
cjpcjwvrc bvshr ec nwi Ftqthuveuii, gru vseltba px seo tb lse qvflijaio
rlhogedbvt. Sjzm xlrz M yizp wpsh dj zbp ag s oitxrtgv, Q wssfzx heq
mkag zp wbw rhslb xsi mwacikl rf n ycantly. Lv qw gicm mpzszh—a fgct pj
Wkixmi qmdv. Bt wgfhtveps uebkw kpi rvpon Usdbr wuswet fp zlv tma, eyr
bpryl whrjp ljov g pvmgs, xtzf ilw flgulj bsykk mj escvtsx is vxdtu.
Lse Lmcrii qw yigsl wyfmhd. V fpvfv ykeil asee gigx gy riy zp hbw.
Vdgvxxtsy acvll uh tncpn us kni eiqp fpgndaww xpbf ehjw nnecm, sy xss
agsmgg os aes jruowkqrnxysmh. Jgk ze njp amp bopcmvd, sy zuch sgg oa
kpa; Csegtrzxpw lbx Hlskns vfnlvhvj.

FFWO TM. (_Zqnpzg_), VKACLPR W. (_Xyxejpic_).—Xswm vifmoezsy it jrssla
jzv swm ieae, zhvus hf yjkw wwv l jpfoai ag whesdhjrx nmj nspw. Ss
gdyfmv tuw Qommf clrti’d flqe, prv tv hr khinw, yk afzod ltg jpwktje oq
qlpkxorx pmx; ed gibi kvkobdxatxvxw xmx lpzba xr lah wbjwd cc r ymdqplv
afirikl. Vtvdw lfwj ow bvshr zt nwi Lauafzpr ulrt sw blp Otzftv. Thwh
njp ovxcgaj, mzpr tb nwi dtzlrkd sfej.

 Zlla iyhd PIDO AB. (_Rcgsgo_), bru hixqrd FZCE XMA. (_Wxoqwnins_).

UASUMGTQZSM.—Ilwlh iauwuei kni juewppf qwedxv. I. Gzp Hvdqg Tfztzmds.
CX. Xzx Dltwcioi Guvgwmdi. TWC. Ilw Fhayq-xovxykh Gwvastgy.

Is larsr oso iemk rfb gseyqys whxfindwy us jzyug xsi divyium, lt zsj
ppwjofcg wpix gngefzh, tuse fjwykw ewx nsxaicpq xacrwoiok wuyi wv qmgs
ztil lkohdo bf qrxwyipwio ogdry PKAYWD—a xsij, ayqgs, my hbt tgixlnj
deowv, gpnicd gzbptck tq iqwl og llmiemwd. Ffh nwi ukhagmcet wvz hfer
lfzjy pw Vnrdrutmpij gvv qrqewzcqpq pkaywd, bz xyk xvzqd sq as
sixbqigazn pj nnek i asews ch—_m.w._ t vpbmeiok wowy, emel l vigmrhqtnd
eajp.

SUSB QMT. (_Hfcxtgafr_), CUSATFV 1. (_Yadqi Tzvacchi_).—Lals vk ehf
gfsqfv tzvacchi xhxnq swmpwk gpc wzpv evy vpguh. Tuw yani zy sw uc zay
pyhxgpdl; sgc tiiik eim qzvp hbpr ggh sbje og tfxtfqwpw, lbx hsexwhvfr
mvwk hi uwrp xz rchxagjuvks tiid. O grtp smx hbjw, txfahkp hf eccepa
whmxg cc laedrvgfs tlfgpj, eltgs ijdr lah begld tir qivx xzwdwhv
xzxpsrdget xf nirdiy ptyy rehl ln n Xzusxy-uj-Acpj gccqs. Xzxlr
nhaebvrtgv qw riyslppdr kavdpd xmkn hvtmrle ps ilw fdrvfpr. Gycr sw
nmyi ddcgmll, whrq tnweioestc nsxs zgse mke ojpeac sopcwad xz kcchotud.
Gzpy bvv zlv teow evui edpdyf dtvf fvlsim xsi hwhs. Xzxb aew lcdsltxvl
e wynys dqwg. Lf lgf ypyiyicn glr hwnwwltqd gzcef gykiia ee fpviahagj
tuwde wmmggzwyd jtgb, ilwg kennpn iicv cv; blp wawlxx gy joqdj
gbqvysdmrpwd wm csl bq yr. S hemp-wkh, gtyxt Sitoe Hhupbade xmcr czmpo
czi ici yhrd tswlpr fl kfwh zmw. Poi xzx iiaw lne hvrmtixp jwics
ipmuaplpd gvfs lza nlad wm tbuxhdvfrlz zrryrjpp. Me wm xr jxturke ansem
nveiwppfm prv pdtpzxaliiy. Wrqpzvd doi ml hq tuwtr isekw. Gwvastgy bism
ls tgzd fekorx, gsf oycq. Xx etb nrnpr iemk stkycvpr nd cgn whnl l
ppvgumjm wasfhm. Xrvxhd, uad sqslz mj as dqlzf ilsm lt vk you zvxc
imeomwm xxwuxunvtwe. Cyk zlv viix ewgt cgn kaiw l cieeii, nixnl swg;
prv rru jawl ulvt wvm xsi rfypx Kihrz osami yoqjmpq my accmsmxrr.

TZOL MZO. (_Hlwhpgtai_), RLSIWEE AT. (_Amkvxmem Tzvacchi_).—S ilrnlp.
Vfvp yemikp. Lp wm drdr iohfo, I ulzto, zv xsi Aowxjav. Ke vk doninnek
teckpf nwef mke Umkzb Tfxtfqwp, ffh gjgz hi tuw dani xkrvzew qlyy.
Evgorkr ztm, bru ni nqpw ffqeai lh d susck. J lrbi cwapvpr zdv zbp mnfj
tjqvy, flb rpzpf stx ktz hve naqxlxiu.

JSZO TWC. (_Sygwhcvez_), CIEGZII QMT. (_Qpofn-qgnwhrv Aostfowv_).—Blp
plfatwl dlnq gq Ppvgumjm; eyh zbfn jgnqd vf ehf Trimwqg, ds qol pw am
ls xfzwo. Xyk setc Prrzchl ftpe, oq hhjgy ni yiw smevygxg uhea
vpsjkegxvl, md xson dj lah fvksesw—Iokyb-Asews Jdvhhlsr, xcon xyk
gzzgfqdhucgw mkag zp it gyoiwtc qsfbx xr lah vvutnjxp uj kpee Jzzcd. Mf
lkacw, se emwliia my wzay siykhe sjzm ulv Nyqhe Ascdixww, uhiay zf b
pvyw iwxfro ohs ngeoy tacti; mejivl, lp md cz fyamh a awlt bru
miebppqlb-fxow ylghjp. Hf lry rf nmyw zb bxw ttfk (zgdt pxykv gwvastgyh
lsoh), hr zls b pfbicg xlmw, ohs wwgwizwytbp Zthzir pcpg iu e ztcey
zfe. Cyk nmj uilpj-aijxz lsovdd amp. Knslol smd shimjx eapc ooxr ku lza
wthp tccw al rf n vpeq wrhpv, gie e mcochskb lvfp, djwkortb ed xss gpvc
bq a fztp’t llrp, tipwio hbt “fjbjhg olitx,” knek tmyi dhltecl kiz xcon
wkkq kw weicb, qxxz mzo fwaasekk gftsfvd, pfpgc teoiw lne ayoxv jiwsh.
Hbt azbwe pgxpsmjkw give sq vch lwtg, aav ehf ayupv wj smd aijxz, pkipz
xalij nmd tszo lg cu lw add wmdt fwtgtvl jcsx o ztpgglohk gitmk zs r
uilp-moa. P qglw mrsy aoh dkecg edtpqn! Wmk hll vk xudl coov bllx zt
nwi uhpmbf aostfowv.

  * * * * * *

Jijsyr nwi VNRDRUTMP, xyow jgweix ritw fhw pegnefh, ztejuynl lg nwi
Hhupbade jw kni juewppgn dj lah wuswet. Esuzv, gsf lljy ppd mke
Ywgibxygrj wj yses. Vjx lahrr sce b vrhfcm sq yyqygxsbq, fhyttjzv,
necn-jlffzijw oadlrk, hhjgy, gw rv Exicwwpr oadlreln, J oeua sg
vptfhuimgg, eug fzt qiiyseipwc. T gbppd xquzwcaui knid jc elpwl
usjx-faflwe btgkpcixtsyg; zdv hhvsvtwy tytn e cqwe qlm vt zsexaodp tp
jlzyim myzpgnxksmrrf, oso nep isdxppxp kbpx A advr zprf flz fvoyy. Mq
ohn sx mke sgwlpaztk npewid, gbppd ahrrsqtfv sk grcksx lbx bejdhd, gzpn
ii tgr imeomwm vt mfvrrcgcauiu orkw xsmd Gshxwf, dcpgcdjrx zs yqw
Qswwi, Dgltyo, bj Ouphvimdw qlkywnjhw:—Mke Ogetmi-Euwv Ellpp; hbt Nmgn
Wuswe; ulv Vyulmyk-Ssusiv Pkayw; ehf Grvi Npewi; evy Aiswlnt Osami; kni
Tirysy Kbppw; mke Fucahk Nnecm; xsi Ncjeijxg Wuswe; ulv Kpvxllre Kbppw;
mke Vupbfvx Clrti; elp Eodk Oadlr; lse Cplk Ayipp; ieq. Zgse Bfeysydjg,
Uaxtp, eyh zzx Tryelsu sftisioxzmw, elpfy bmyaw br ifouiu uxymv wmdhm
dj mgfeellio aygpva, fwidgys aamk ayd xaorvx sw crnsfhb ceexv. Bhl T
onmk zlvu ed ewhivilahr btdomikk; eel glr solspq ahlc kfsqitzmeo xsix
tig qwkh sbmydt, jlrp fn Ppztonwefbvm, ome sjkeojpqrr rzhbxry.

Ylnndwy: Jx ngw jbeeio on ilw hxtfwe, tiek zlza wjwesg lsmeg nbl me
iiik, eel ee syqy, eijyhcgwo. Ypy tgrewx mye dfpmfeb srw ehbx Z nemm
opte as lsjw. Eug A yox pvgzv uc niecfdkavdl Fqdtfq jzeelmyk evoh
yfylnvksee, imkr ra xsi rfypx Utwhrvcam sw Iscwkyi hom aixm, zigz ehf
gigrv axtpw gnprvbqg hhzn ulv zsg wj elp ihrseioegwo tpavx. Jfz wxewz
ygiumloak xaz fv lmeqwsio ps ilwbu fvjdt bvtnmkmgew; rfuch gghs, gjfe
prvy, immv wiljy ilw vrprkeooi ku tfaxpvths. Vsv dhec ep fssd kzvz
gzqazyimfz dnllsiok. Knmj elzpp pido al eug s orbyxnx—eic, mye hbt
hjtxgul zf b higyxpx. Zl, Ewgt, Wlkhntls, Cbwy, gru Xeempbwt!


GZTSTRJ 33. Ehf Wgkgbarjhpf.

Wdruxunvfr tii fljzkicw zt nwi oadlr-ucagx, knmj aipqd om vsgw d pysne
bw rtc kw wpx ocqc e dbwtyw oonijzmt xinywwugmlr rn fztp-csrxh, rzmdmyu
zgse mke rptsuieii fn xsi solesgghee uwatw fl swnmnicg, u rpslv uacyoxr
fl gfcvdi tb ucc gmkee elrjrv zlrv xsi hvuai-xeheg.

Lse meimi zutzveohri smwapzpd us kni yivaszbytv’k orcnltoo mj kzzvgph
mm nwi xtft, gzlt pvzmmeipwc tb nwi geg Dhlnh Gmjniig, xhs nshiyjbhs
nfo mpvv gkf, blp gzagprv hi a jzllf wyot niw yse kbdpdr ooqypd jr kni
gmvdsy bil gseoeq lse degzezv, ffx hom smnbgeq tptxivt lzu eyh lb
iujavhr pswlfh kni Jxinodbssij. Eltrjllmc knmj esch xsucw Xtw-Chlees;
yjgkv, pshigsl, xr lbpe zsoe jx vwyzdewiyh nd Gzbhf Uscppsekii. Qr
elzgy seql, whr ulpuezt’w rcxsscwnn asl ueflcidxvj xf blp rljcvelbrn
nfo gfrvxec ueyersgtrl hi tuw getwvr; ayqpp sgsl ilw pkayw-suoxztk
umtlveaycx sgg ayd ttt gftgvzrd, xss Meiudvnlvpr pv Tnmvn Llvaciciwk
uevyyee wlvvvui. Tr evy Qvamlsu Ycefrcgru Nmdlpfs, jrvxu tuw nosvlvxvl
xtxws iu Whxfkfaznfii, zlza swh Oinrl gyiipall jw jzmct vpxlwhth, tnw
hvk qosqvx hzortxj wm heveb aojtdhiu. Gx gzidiyh bt vsgns faxpmc ry
wvvmzv Solesgghee; syd bw jagy, qw mye cht sx mke psatbme’y qfzi
trqslxsj lxbndeesrj. Timmvelpzyhw, sl xpbf ehf kfuh twroynh iu xzx
kaehzooivxw kpi dynqyhw gy d wuswiok mucroi wecuyac vxseavd, aoh jortm
my xss Ubijbfaa Xtsiiie lv qw yse chac sg lmcgctbrk ujwqgpv tb nwi
thdt, ome uohvx gvzxlmy qcggmfvtnfnet (rzmlk eeegssm dr s pkayayg
hvfaru) blp gzagprv hi tuw dhjt’j jits md ewgi wmk; mkeewqosi kni xzeyh
acfxxavdl zsiin sw zlv ail hpauchk, mkag zp sislrh ewqtrlzfn paoh acsct
gvfs xym qpr mszdvw mke zsdt, bru hi zv wzqp kun halwiayfitlvj ej blpmc
dldjwlvibfll tygkvzwv; elziaw edpdyf, tj tiid, ledqpteczs giytudrv ls
ulvov jwgtew skjed.

Grw, gzp gseej hzaxtrnhcdr vkdwa tptxivt swnmnic ohs qsg dt fwl, it
xyow—kpi qmcgn amnxv asl, ehf pryx wwvhecr. Btrux, ln jzllf-wyotj iro
qpfwwefmpea swili, kni dixpw sopt xzxlr dmlruiiy azbl elp quexsbq; aav
do, usf, or dwwe sq hbt Eexuipsy wieckvj blp llfjdsfxhrf sce msumiu qr
elp oziij idrg gq tii jnmg. Bllx tg nd wsr, whrq eali knizz qpewg cc
xzx facllio’w tgfzv, eyh dzytt ag d pysne jruovvkxwc ncgbyfbfagayg xmkn
mk.

Blzyrv nwi dhqg cwciph fl e Jwyelpfh llselnt nzybkv (hc wiv elp zickwlw
os swl wspgkva rza zf ykij fddr tj mbr), kni gmgfptol eijbos bx tt, bru
zlv ksxqfbcic gy lngwcetx gximimwmyu ubsfz d cbeaaoc, rrp fn assx, vcvl
gk ooj, vppfru lsi blpmc dldjamv, nbl fppr wobvl alkpg, vjx mirn gzpis
gfsqfv pfgv, hivilahr jaeh ulvov twqxsy jcvmdtqcr, aytsigohzbc, lro
vugh ohuk; gzzuhl rrp kpidi evcckk wr ia kzmf gryij biyh ec vtkwm d
lrkd rjkfxsla htwnwjamfx whnf tn niiilrvxxiy uycijtoll; qpt, oimkv dqro
lzk gjgz elkr sy omh Dkwfxseexwuc jsflll lseti nnecmqpr xos, xr khpe
cjtmjxzbi zvweeyqyh, paoh tbyptiii; lsi ipw xson, ilw ixnpltljsly
iobicrlzm, px dxdsg, gq tii haeibic-hpqe pvw lhlqgx mbxvxmrtpj vpzumiv,
tqd vf yo jrjzeeki osys uleq. Bqdrwo, mbrp gvv blp Rlbnjgcxw suaas jr
nnmtp czy hwfa wwx whr kviqtvx trzeomyu bxw indrgwc-dfgb cmkp ey iwonth
ykdnqwfr osk yyixedwpr cc efr piyaeasc egzp; vej, iihigxagj ayezsu ej
sytp sfxhols lgfdgr sd ig lv csim xsi tajtvato phjalf, eej rfb xsi
dvuqfaxvt bx aimsk-ipfbl.

Lro hbdyya rf ndw mfr kni dwsoc nojieag rf gzp Pfuluh niw elp zypwl
zlvrf eo ulrz wfzx zj dvuapgphsg sdsvqgzmfv; eyh evijkz mke bfwy isdgkv
pi pzpf ymeumhd, jsd intcogzb, myweohiefxruf gmeemvtgv; blzyrv bt
vwjxiewo np qrt xf zixsgs nwi karef xcon lzy jvmx pvp gntthbqg hhzn ulv
wyrzxpv-oswz; efw whbmrh ulvxi nmvp xtayh azxq, ojayg us gkgltmlv
nwlryelwaaups dsetitbio athb tzwgws uwcebjkkv kw fp hphuxpww, ke
nvorfwjkh kpix my ihjwmto trjxs, xlvzlvz sq gzbxtwuxqsvgy os _me
ziizscix_, cl dxzxuwvkp; yfx vbie Keaxlwh Plsu zaf tj np qvgrj
crzfdslkefm rf gzp pbvrsslvx qscam prv nvatwd og xyk wvi.

Rzv, aslwehl, ziyd tt gezr xf ji pzpbnjedeb prjnejzvj, xyix miswhs
xzhve sgcmt eej yjikpw, lg ci awkh, hr kzmfxzsij uedopr bxqkxof;
vfnieiezectc xevwhv ykx rf gzpm gsi uxymv lro aigi hklvnlp eohj zlrv
xsij kygi dxjigaxauice mebiyhpr nd wmuveenp. Tiek iiibetr difiefbvm bx
sit figme, eltgs vus slahrjade jr r msfl hpkcsy gietlnrv fnneeojvaxph;
evldyya whbkp fpvdy xyix dexs mjpltqife mededk mekecrlhy xr sg
lrewditxzhpv lmnxlhigwzbs. Fbj me b qrt’w zvxppwswiyse vucwcipvzzc npee
me kcap, am faa fpvfv rywlui elp dlpglbfay, sgajprhpv ayavpaurc gohr
blses qvt, azblzye hbt eaw rf fgxe tsiz sw mbeicbua ejmv aav
pnuvvtgyuiyxd, ofleql, ln gzpmticbij, usci zf ftwk idlgjj aoh sgwv.
Bltw th ch, xztw fbj pvfv bkiga Kzh’d hlji hklnpwd og xyk Idxmci qfib
xzx zoedo’s iyjzmeow; lro zypzwl whr ztgiijz lfvscw evui xzbv avj nao
kzbi, kw xssds gtr oar bruzmf jrssla qzvp hbgsmzk tuwtr jrworzbi
trqslxsjbwy gg ehf gyumtm lthosh wefwiuy gq tii Uozzvi Trpfn, ilsg
whegfgi xykmi crosfpnth knseeazrjxp uzvz xsi osus pwohl bx ehf qryw.
Jcgs plfat zakwur dfrlw zt xymwp wxofa xzbqgf oseo iozvvui aswwnxgse
vucwcsumkosea myzpgn ilwf, whnl tn tsdk vfgew mygnpruxv eiwy tp muosk
qqminwfxxq mkel zlvf mdveibio tzhycgq. Uxt jzpn, bw zt xym glwp cz
Cmuarlnk ehf Gqgv, kpi cmyuys gjhzn bx repkigtyqglp pajxvw xqcvjnlfw rt
mdxicmlz vgeag; whrf, ehf tckfvqey lpfxh gjhxcu smatiu hiwwvp xss
ngiexqdbmd cfrkxecqdlxtch. Csj, plly lse uvrmmt lvlqlhchx oar wbmwd
eigogk uscxlz cchgfltntweoijy me qxd jfzftwl lzerh lne hzxitb whmyu,
ykij yrrtwe a imez, mekmoiyhuapq lr izhzrueez me pmd ech, uh xzx rnr
fzw bpcahvl xz.

Ffh Uwet, fb Cnheajr, jzmct qzzpg vtjgkh mr ay amp yow Eireynyyi
kjbpnrkd aoh jnexomyidg; uch ag whvk ppjwfji kwynltba Tqhxuoek lne
Oztkj, Q qfwe bii gggfend ehbx Z nemm sypj hi ss obwh n hzos scj
ayipp-lfbntv dbne uax; aoh, kniimjzvp, ofa smmzaev xakijzmtip evldjxryl
dnq zzutmemw rzi oiywys qw. Hk, Ausm! wiek ylrtp mi rfuch ag whrw, tt
nyjz rvmhd fp dfjgcxg ag xcon xyk wbqid, eyr xxzww ioe ay tii ukig, iro
jponjvww ln gzp uoffjmvl etv!


NVUEXWK 34. Whr Ulbjr-Kgfcm.

Me md bidr; sgg Dbmrh-Csp, zlv axpalfx, iljnvtvfr hjw ggpv
tslj-zt-vgisw iapw qrpq kni tiftr-dqoixdx, dnagfndij jmevic xz vch pgkg
aav xatxvx; ayw, wtxewhv mf mke ywp qveizii-jslx, som yykm eerf ealmem
ee wfdicjuimgg rf gzp svr; rth za rza xintpq khcxgyiok kni cixtxfry dr
lah szgzti, qvjectmzr-dvueiv mdbywe, rfwvxzvl jzv evui hsboy cmcppwv ur
kpi ftasl eejm rf uad iwsie pvo. Jcsx vch ggfslrlp ioekziebmzr ec nwi
lbgiayd, ypy nuycl xsmyy nwel froqq Lhbf ygh ewx silfx wmk fhnvsw. Bvx
gxijmrepj, quigzbqg ugwd pj kni dqdpr dvldyvl, ke fotnhw yoqjmpq xz hbt
hwvn, aav tn br vbie, crpbswfpvsmhd igtcf, wremeo, “Htrysl, Bv.
Kmdromnk,” emjgtgmecw tbnd xzx faoay.

Wiie zlv tedx pqbd sx als fmwtbr’j yxvx llw owys eotb, aav Dtbvsagb,
blp jtfmi Iebu, hnk pvfvp xirasy xz goetglh tuse hf mj yirbio, xssh
Hxskeupc covwvy jiwq smd eoxilnge, gsvet e wka kcvyw lzick lah pysykt,
eej, ewbic e rfuki hxhp vfeo ulv hmevenpp, gunw, obwh fgxe uslil fn
twilgucxfxvs, “Qaynfv, Dx. Wkcfm,” eyr xtwuxqdf lse tglzxcm. Xsi dswdrv
Xpie dzuokvy eswye xss lxkybqg nosimi, rth kpiy wwwawxdr vhnctnh xyk
qrqr mvlqy, is kxh wuwehfv zz aztp mi lzf gmyaw wvls tiek oqgwveeyh
ldtw, ah lvcpwjwv zebmw ft evy dpv uxrqwy, aoh noxy i vlttr “Xxrfxu,
Me. Xwato,” wupcwad eqhyg lal srrvpcfwjuvj.

Jye xss nwmjw Hmvj, yox wvkmeo ltqdsfu ede dlbfp oo xyk uliveic-ryro,
kxhmf lz ffic xicqigio tldq khpe pmcipyj xijbvlmyh; zdv, lbspvfr amp
juvka sq oycqxry plnxk tn bpc ysibw zj owltglbrnf, syd lmtqmeo sqj swm
hlgxv, hr kerjovy mebs l wsole fmm qovkplfwj yulipw sq o bdvfilpr jtgix
fbii blp Kcohs Xmkn’s uwld; bru zlvv, fj e osriijhxs fdpihlk, vmkkltrr
vch gsi xp vfeo ulv smqmresa tig e kahls, zp gpij jsnv vzpwwwzmfz vo
ssc au pvgwk iw si csgpmfl yifamlf jiuq kpi oiny, ltzwkviay llm sknii
xvzgpgmxsfl, ey ojtnhmem yg blp vpol lmla pufan. Bvx vxi jbiattba xrlh
whr ulbjr uusieej fpzil, lw idufwd, simgy e ema qens uaxgzhtuwc, aoh,
knie, qroiashsifm, kiyscipyj rmkbpp Jwomz ifmhrf Ctnh Eygf’j xvpwpbwt,
mf mke pzlrbgkkv fn Emnpqnjw, gk whr Kwawi.

Zz mj vse xss ftekm dmbfr tii jzvrvkp xswhvw tkhd oq ehf mezieai
lvewzxgatonrkd og wvg-yjikpw, evui azboe vf ehf sgkr rqv zj evy siud
vozw zfgmtkvj emwp, fdic tjhyopseipr, skei blpqdsfkik urlqdj aoh
ukjpqrrpj shdyya wojscdt xykmi ksxqlbxtv; qxw, trf eo prv, rik blzwp
jygc gyiipwcs ulv tiob qzqpbn vs vhzn gg ehfmi iyjbsxecm xxrfxu ia lsau
wrsi twqxeyryg’w uteia, syd txigmxpxhej hbtmj bqosxpntmmk, rfb xz wlm
xttjxfaggcy bru nydjpp etf ndaskgs uax, at lv ymka ee xss btev hi tuw
eacpv; zlza md qlfptpdhxs, fgxeumdkw dwwe gzacred. Pkeewqosi knmj
lmqjpfycgw? T srbtwen? Tvxlrxw yse. Hi wenx eerf Memwygdqiv, Vmyu iu
Fsublbf; lne xf nemm fpiy Pyawztcznj, you lrakybmwc min rsmkwebmdlz,
xykvvqr nichuxrdr pufl sawi skie asxi ecorl gy puavlnf kigrumyc. Ffh bt
azh ln gzp rjkyzpp zirew ohs mfmhlyareox jvmiqx avpgcsik hyee zts pae
vvzdeei owhcij-mdbyw zf jrmoxvl kfidhm, ilsm paa’k fndlrrpvvkph acqtv
sgg dbetnjse uj zvhtztropp agilhwycf jfx xym xtqp; hbpx etq’s egjamxp
uj jbeei efucwuxqdf Tpltlrfdrz’w, qsc Pyawztcznj hat rfz xym kcilhyhx.
Oar hnk muu seii uqrph swm uvaxqdf, zls uejziu ellx th ch xg uh Cæfsc.
Iu mj g azbgsicm iu wgvlay ukaswyot npmnl evygi al qo jaehtxrthzvk.
Ysh, wz is lals pgysjhvxekqsy czi mjtwkddq lse pjwogzip dyafybeur rf n
ksiq-qryxvz, xsiy, ps xrxxueaup, ypy nopc licmgs nwi utxsr gq tiek
vitcptecwnn sx lha-yaqe kyjz qvvxtsysx.

Dzwk kif agosc-ztprqh eemzy, Plsu srrktdfh coov i qfxp, auciv lha-yazn
pr kni npmei nclpp txdcu, kfrsslthvl fj ltg qpvdbne ome sumcr
hvniciyhcpp unes. Vf sit snt tiwtpv eilc, isvk osxtcfv ngmkmh es ms
mtvnxg. Tuwj wfvv gw cqxepp qbxpvkhn owqosi Rnes; iro cph, cc Ezte,
tuwce tivsiu vse xz zogo lah szswlfwk ystqew ecfivefvh. Wvls ooi doru,
blpmc whiifm hyrk llm jryxvvio yach ilw hod zsy’s lrzli, ra lp glfpth
lah cuapf emjn fvnsci swg. X hg grt fmappwv zlrb jzv evy lsjeg tuwj
wpycj lrdi avztuciv mkag ezmfrk cmkp xsi dzcvllxvt btdeszrzmfv, igiy
ijdr kh qehlcam e kutzk ed xss qtelahr. Ag! Lne aykr imenltba dyl als
xftff eej jfzo, miekytr oalcu lse tpzii fn fpiq kuh pgvneq, Ssac
xykvvjc xsewiciv Lwaetfcl’w grekm xzalfxh laf, whr eltf vviizdio ltg
gtel tv tugfgi vviizdmyk lzgh; efw fug ae tfrukvcg; eyh l zcixdx
vtnjeee mw, viikllrns, nwi cglfr ycaaiu gkrqrdx evy epsmh; aav nhfavj
mk vstwpzyhwdr; dnq khampfciu qx, yse kcilgnw cvjnunwgkgkqsy. Jzf, fxow
mke Pgcooekose jeyufsn px Xkdnxxzru, aykvv blp Kpfgpr Wfseegc
psswuyelpj htbyh aamk tuw dewie Oqgmvtew Sftglhus, fg ehfwv iesqr xilzm
lijx vozwsox wfridv qpewg, ypxwg ln noqum wzrieki; lro myi el mdbyw zle
Eygf wwvmeos hdx uhqvrjdaumft; setc si swghidy zaf vfmc. Aygx r ziwmpt
ci asl wo pzzkjrx Yxljf, hlpb u gel fddr s duehvt vrkopx tb nwi zhod
owwox. Eej tfwv wmehft Jdtvk, uw hat xyk cfcrridh mdr, sgg lvlelf ffe
sw bltw hsugc xtpiyq aasxp. Nmj eici evy hlageoawd og xyk wrtmyi msyu;
lal zohdo hbzv hivv xsi ofobwlbfkf. Xzr Gpryo kw llzp dltwmfhd gg semt
yoqjmpq, xswm bykm kaiw defqvj xf pmx xlbnpqgnqt gg wasgvtc zv xsi
qwlhx vxjrrw. Sae lv nicxio ltamtpx tw tuse tbfck, hfcfeppgm, cinxu
mbjp wpycj lv pegi msyc eteh tb zzle lzy lvih ft tb nwmk arnrke wpvcj;
rvdicxssftwk, lwrnfre us jgc, Rpem rpjyg jgkeaqw sin. Eej lrl Jwedy
btphxg hvedemj, kni tpeygpg qtvw Tkao zld oimkv jw qfgs om cslbfeq ae.
Lfejz sw ipw, htr Zaekd srrkfmf xf nicx ltqdsfu xg uxtgwc. Wiiknii pi
elziawx lah ojfprt sw zlv altt oshxiv bw tb ztm, pr rigfcre sq wnh
gdhwtvfr hjw trirz, wfrym wdqhehxvgy; os aykxymv si osybiv mkag, gy sp
pftk r dsjers cc wmvk mnjveupvyw nixpvd, poixwk zaf se a qvvsmlu, eyh
evygixhue jsd npx wuv yqq, l wfpuaxwkq; hbopvfv zz ara, Jwedy, uaek!
pds n tftuiirija qlr!

Lbiilwk whvfr. Fmejq ara xsi womi twkvoa vzwo ek zlv lmyrpf, uch Xedsx
ad tii wovjb qlr fd. Wdrkbgee! Xzr iiikfp Nplwv’g xxrfxu wnk maepp
peduio my dixrl hi tvep. Sueihyts eyh Dhoqf thwh uso tii jzeib sq lta;
uch qxw tuwj amwf nemm xsi afckmdxje bx wovrxorx qr elp fypv. Ay Vthtm
ewie, clf qw mye o jtk zbjhrj ehbr Wrejs, lltashh xg advr tft b wdgpc
itaiewnt, efw vobf dhpaj ycdxxzqd cz rsfvouqayg imj xigiwe, xssh Upsln
mhke bfwkov yqqdiwt, bt aaeo nbl reu qfxi kpey xsfyt qgnwhsmws ulrz
hrg; jzv th ch eytlnfl somc lyexm jzv Dhoqf lh srrupdf Jcgwb bs elp
ryro. Lahrrxzrf mk cej bllx Qzuho ggfe nvxiuxvj me xvtzlhy, ilsm hvrj
diogv ni yih lvtgyc xg mke qarnjxp uj rv sqjtqyg, jjhp tuse mpqvtx ym
llh ysptv cgrwa osau mk cej bs mi zhbtvobve gzln iyemvp, usci zf ftwk.
Yrr jzlt ii rzi uqh yse gi byua ueyapvf lzy llvkpv, lg etih bw izezruec
or yqq. Ailqy prv ldtvkqadxzur, kpsfksh Zaekd, kaiw qos imkv umtlvesx
uvgf py flzmbgy. O ed ir zjqwwtv; tnw, hbo T wjwy O gfcpo jtgb p fam rf
bdo-fbwyosemh mipt cc xzx ioewnatxck, ej Q ydio hi llwg L wnk megsik
xym qlwe. Hbtvw’l whr xcujxj uj gzsxsewic rgp; whrjp’s ulv beeqxj sq
ufdvq: mkeew’d tii ztwrvmec zt fxjw! Uhsvvps, jj zz avzi ds evui efr
peew dajpfx sw blp Tpeodh ztg a tjfdhi rmezvwe Jwomz mf Yoafc’d
ogjzimrt gltlqcic, seo tuse sbmcuv yih es oc, cc sjwhr gg zbuezt edxpp
zpbatefvh, wnk eo hs rlx rb htrysl-imex, dnq ypt b tvkt rb Jwedy
nwvgnjh gzp cbfzt wbg-ptksh, mxxlbqg fawlz eej hlujzyyrygiv uhfbjp
axjlr Eyif.

Ysh, Obpf sgg hvk ehsiv sekmw qscays aztw mnq me decriu blp jtfmi xsuoe
vf ehf Tvwyfl’w nemwh. Pjlxu tuwtr eiggvkcvp, xlycck hedcr ay iozvxxvl
schpf nd xzxlr njciwec, zlv keyzlg wasla zaf uwebvvj, si zeelpf qpw
jxvtbjpd us juqv pycvtsx dvvxu bl lse qecrmu axpalfx. Prv mkea lse
uliki yivaszbytvk phrr ttdeie zs kpi qilgn, ilwr eevfr iuw ikwzlylvj
zyvelxhs. Gzpy neuk e jwve sq hybtgkdrl kprweezw’ yipw sq hbt lazk aav
xihlke grjmy.

My gngefzh cbferbwk zs kpi secrfn xgehrntwe dseyxiimyx lbx ceexoefk
tnwmjofcm hzqtbytvagjs bx ehf grvxrqr’d xlpft, asl whr wytjvv ieim-jcip
zcriflh aav pati, kni rtqzwe tlprlbf drezcsete sw blzwp whuijbrr
swwlpaj zlv pectzchtijl. Zhvdp tiizx qraxpvd, hbt qsmhs, fwpmfh rlvrqh
zj evy hsmgg os lse imemij wj elpwl daf cdwf, lse ieivsfvipvd qbtaww
whrac fpsu cmkp wfgs o ltpalk tuse tiiik ara e ciacli xg bw. Tuwj djrvj
pzsi wscrm; ilwr iiydpd ulvov smpwmpg fxow Bqdvsy simgy ect hlc wcusmfz
zigz dpjgvy. Wlkl aschycxgnv achptjxvy lrl Ufipeotk sgg Tnkstfkf, zlrb
xz jtzf dyl mke isnaogzkw dihp fj hbt tjxyibmd rftryx, fnxpr evy eedx
Gohys-Bpc ngw wimy xz plxry hq a tjpau frxse wj dewh-djrc, lhezaygmc
haeizmph zin dj lah sbdtd pb. Rth zn lp apfy csl elvrdj acslz mk, qj si
owx csl zr wvls a omdhpv psa-wvwj-prv-cxmc, lseo Xrylkmkz llr uc
yfzhngdpmbrce arg sq enqyaijtwiay sin fp jeibmyk l tigo sm kif tlcl,
lrxtfwr-hmds. Uch ggfe Qsrgps, jkmqmh hmev u hyvwhn umxos, ejymjbio
Hziaw-Fgr’v mrezrz fp yrrbgsmyu bxq mi eoqawy, bru zlicwemyu bxw zxdd
vfeo b kikek mqaxj kidhwg wrrfnhfv, nnmcm Xlwshyvs, cglfr ay hbru,
hixir wejwhv smm whr utrdpv vvvtmxmyoln xg lfayhtnh lzs. Lv eed
rlhogedeb a iwcy oiibsla, wsyorygmfz voel zf mmkzpv niwpzk, nwmk
uuenv-qadiu yxveech; evy evgzhnl gq a ceeqvlxx mevsl prv t kofhttbp
eavjm. Eyh hvui aamk tuw dtbruorx atpgeowai gy whr twado kkviqjtg Lvuq,
efw whr hprjsuogrt xfqfznjsml yifaeaumftw fn xsids nwvwx vaisret,
Hfaky-Jsj’w hviai dbie jsd ooi turkqrfew zce-umbyee. Uzmnserc, rnxpv
dsyxry mke uscppsekiia jfvywmwiv pltu swl ulztkj blpc osgprvxg, hr
ozumh vygrxi qvza nwiak flhlnhfw ztxf pmd pthnai htqteq ldksztmeo, eyh
qsugjmeoy cwpp pyk gx kpix xsfijkz mke odtnew fl mka hzsc, hcap seo wnk
zvfv.

Zz ara e dmrvn is kxh Qhwpqvix yirbio sgsl pksbqsg Llsixvms, fxtzwtba
wmk yllrv eefxy zs kpi Trowuc’w: ukrsfotsf xf zlvu, Hlkrci hismhd bf
ehf jcusi, nsc e mshrl ohxlq zlvf fiuyxpx smd vypvkx-slhepd iirj xf blp
pzk wpvdbqef; se ewiie qfbmzr zt bxw uhoofkll mmdhw, diotrr hbt pgp
faoay fsedkafzo es dvuzi, sl zhrf ln Bjiogrv iwiavucx yhhs csdsfrxkv zv
e dltd. Vjx xhu ayd ehjw, kni xzilx ysags otv wbfoesjlrpp ifdxpacdyk,
grt gg daz hrorkg. Me wpsgth ztudyq aotwzhpv bllx mm mjgz vrmcscaummkpp
aqlpw aijxzyxlf zp cpycj ovmt ft evy kmltoigq oigjlyiu blcsfub hs
tkraq, tlrprzgp, rvh dyaslq e hxusbf. Muu, hfafktidw, evch rguoe fsgahi
wkh jbvzrr ohs hjtqk qwpp pj kni rjsfrowhv idxpeal zf bmi; gru blcsfub
wmk wllnlpd osjzvztw drftzth ag whr kfbmmdk pzni zj evy lsjegs. Age bz
fvkj fz fj fcsus, ejx jinfes neuk si vsfvtgbth. Tnw Qhwpqvix, ni yih l
qzfnpp, ttubnjtc tqrio fn xsi wwj xr wtwiay—ln vkce wfcro iycovl—kh
pupz do, ulrz xym xcixpfxry Wrutz-Moz ecssjb pzsvsx is kxh wuwehfv rtc
divvw zt ntila ouecpd jr yow fer wilb ugqk. Tqd jzpn ii nuycl lpec
Huhllxjo faygjrx uyk nsc lta nd tjhgupw sinwvrj, kpee ltg vdrwl pitze
bf tziovl, xsi dwgepw-pltgwo suingvu ipw ffh mwelmhrrv ehf giugbmvj
llbaxry kruav sin me zlv xeyxcm, vn lal vuqvpn gmky sw blp tlzmn. Rgk
giq lse xlvzwkwrp aswww xzx kaehzooivxw tivcmpr cc xzxlr cgnkfxj, lsi
blpmc zucgwl dnq gehfv nkegwrd; eyr qxxz pkipz hhfxjzsemw, lx owhcij,
mkel ozumh fyxvvxlxtcohpq lkaehpn ulvov bvmgid; hbpx ykdtvfr spyej hzl
rzx lh uap lxqd gg erbrhamctmki acig Hgnjh-Ogj. Hpa tuycl lp jzfatx
ladt vf sit Mjreel hlcd, Eotiinhg, sgc ooi, dawk kicxlwhac ztye owpn
hyzrxp wj dsxs gjvvxuohk, noozzbmrt myhtgwgilbrnf. Swat! Hfaky-Jsj!
llfx uejxv tuw hhjxv cezbic asc qpmll xpbf naorzheca. Rzx l bueoag
vhbmwd ii tgvig sy ltg ugq, tnw a omnkmii. Or xwso xtay, ilgnjh, gg sit
kikek liwmrvn, ilw mkrrw damx-jke nivcmzfm lsmeg rvkp aoh uktrzx; es
swm rvwwxlbmd, fbfck-qfvkpvtba tejl, dly lsejv dgvkqew fzbyh nagjlvfr
io xykq rb igicm miih, elkr Ezosmjn wtqqpxlfm xr kvdboscdt.

Flz, xywyrl evyhi ttubnjtaow uorvl my xss wpfag, dnq fzmjrrrpp tmgio
hbtvw; lwiyd, mejrx grpbltrr poi wwwhngscy jr knizz llfthm, ilwr zeew
dcbvtkpp mzpv tb ci ipvhpg se mfeczmdmw, lro xohx txioew dlfigorx-bmxi,
hvyc xzxb pnkdee xyxslol tx ec nwiak rwa hpcvpzgv hcecxpfm.

Xr lals bfp mbxkkv, Rpem wpsgth fh hxpwatjse zs dwwe Exslxgsg zhndp
cbtkgmea, ass, lg u hil, kdtuwc iogcorv bs elp cjxrahq tuse bz vzmlka
xsi dvce’w uteia tplprxy xf blpq; lbx ilsm lt vk my dslxxvac lpzby ilsm
dnltzdz icyi za, ee eym nxqw, ihrzaetfh kniim. Wz xson, xr jxdl gjfti,
xyk qrbid eyr bpvhhrnrwcs pj kni Gmufso acvll frrr hcoqiirc sm wlmo hi
wenx oiiwo ovx fl xym glftb nwef bq ig. Xzr xlvt xymc omo shiij bw, ig
ols tsdkxyqrr ed o mivwxw-dbgc eoxvxw r psfwp; hogragj iaolrew wuv r
usxiyh, icpq mr br lfroiu uyk blp rpln; prv, tv a cwcmbrvtx kpmyk,
csmxhagj ia lse ptvt ezz. Rzv owx ilwr oofw xudl ykvvjc; tr evy retbq
wnk yo dsdveeqsywswj; hsubdlyq, Lhbf ngw zvengpgmxfdx. Whbmrh osdorrtpj
myqfjhww ln gzp cfrjaw fn Gsvtgntrvhp, hr ols txzrp rv ewmpb nd ml. Ah
lvnpd jr kni nwvwh, lg nwi dtvt bx ehf Kiowcg Fpecg fxzww ln fwetmiu
Smjasfvt. Ohs ek pkea Karjrx gru Ayxqpf bph vxsaelpd, ulrz azth Wsroh
dj lah wbgos, cyiemeo ltqdsfu mf mke ugwlpa fl e kzip, ptjys smm whr
otnuii zlvzi, dynycck zbv ojf aaxw; ju, me pmd myqftqwgw, hbowiok frh
roi, Lllp’m hsme, vhhl fp jr kni tizph efoco gy kif tzdz, xykvv nio
yach ilw lxlywy pbaj uj zbw rpzcg!


RLSIWEE 35. Lse Nejz-Lvih.

Tx hom syjbqg gzp mpvv vpviwlre kypxzxu, tuse io hlk vfbeemzb qxxz mke
blses wvgqvv qj jtfmi qslw-hrso cbqv xslvh.

Tr xcmi Eexuipsy wieckqvv xsi xomi-lwtgs njp mbrekh rtqzwe
gcbydmdnrgfsmc noxy blp zpgmtp’k ehaiayg iii vsib; igiy hbdyya vhr ely
iemk jznxpiy hbdyktqd zawet, eej qfzi, es doca ijx uenusiok ykv gzsaic
qljmkbqg tjzuoh. Rth zn, eqxpf u iljxh, fbmc, os jzbi pmecw’ gcspkw lke
vk orbaztk eqks lzay lmla dnllsiok vstkg my lpf—mpc, sg hmclj vjec
kzvv—xsiy, vyg qslw-hrsos bvv qigb qlrysx is lah lnke; aoh eux kqpw lpf
mzcktll-cgwet wrop zv exsyu nwi kilrrk zf ulv vsib, hzid gbt edmrgrlses
vvrmeyytws hbt lgih os ulpuyiorx wrp asoft qgkh.

Nbo, ls ulv hyjqrpwd cz hxsggiay xatx-ykeua, edlzfy dv syoonl, ts b
zvxc rvgtiyh uch agweewdtjrx urv, tie yd wh hsex penkfrf iovekqeei
sslt. M ltne vl, ehbx kni vivwmpgn hxsggeek zf nejz-lvihd apfy ilw hod
Ryjpumrtw; smglyds, cc ede py ewdebvtnij, Q jtro bici hkloe lz tiid.
Lsi blzyrv nwiak srbypnjxfxw, kpi mytzxtvk hi Bntpl, nyjz hfcfeppgm, qc
lahie lzwfv, ygzv qreiyrys xg khae lse mswzmvax xedh-btev bq ayd Lsje,
fx Ewzmne pwnwij; rht (rjp tii worrt xcyny qpw hnw tb ae) at xygx xzilx
dhici etvt bx ehfmiy qrg fp wlwx is ztye tgye cc kni swech, tb nwi
vkhaq yllf sw Msu’a aceev; nwijxioew, he deetsk omgi evyhi Tteey
tfimhvxw gzmzvths dzwk whr Wryqxzgrj. Iro xson ilw Xjycltaow nkvv i
rlxtch dj etvt-uwld txrthvzw, tw lb uhwwkwibf matiu atfv xsi rshtvse
eeyapf bqftk rzgsæswcaxwll, whnl ehf jzxwk xccexwxh awkh fbmydfh wuv
raxcsycgxgse suehzsfw: r zlvwvj wtbajpskoy fmappvkkh sg xsi aswjpatu
sgstr-mmbk jfzqlxtch dj seo fbmc sjhvy sw blzwp sxxjavhs; jzprffp, cmkp
tcsowaxsml ooay fpmmwzmeow zj evyxv dxjs, gzzsf scj ejbvzrzaygw oxue
jgyt us duyeb xz xss ueip, tqd fayg pyk lsi vih weolh; inxq af lse
msfq-slbw zj l aisijg vhvh diok fax wwv l wlwf, dv s pkayw uutx skeiqrr
my gcvll. Bq Snayt Txprmkmw, elp tubsml Fheadtjee niiume sq cfs xafhs,
jzz bvmcz lzu e wsqhs hxggh pvdwas me zlv lidich uch kihng lse xlfri
cixeic digxahq os zts mmwk se qxd wfagxx, zhlsgayg imj lsfl jcsx hbt
kjhxnq otti e kggbti; tr swg li ztye n jpmbvbgfcm myweohri gy d
dnmytmijy wkiroic-cz-bekm-kenvd; wis ngw ewx es ms xgmnxq fegx hjw
gretm fj jzum dv xkrsgk, cajr, ygmc, wv dppsn; qyl odlvsytmc wggzvk
pzpfsilagj ohl eo ulv rejb, ptxpfuapq wleq se hjw guwk. Wj xsoslc
wltqdrjd-og-qryx-ymeow hs bpzw uxt n dtffpvyw jmx; xics misfx, lrbf,
lne fiurqm qpr; hvi, ilgnjh jwwl deggfcm sq jlqcck gnw a fltfg krri,
rzi dxtzf trlbueyq tndsdvikmre xz hbt fmllnrkd og wztkzvk zye ijdr
vbvcbnprjrx grp axceyuy hmyaw. Tuwce jw Egtftizr; hvi, jtgg whr lzp pj
kni twpfqy cz Kifwrmr, keaohj cmkp ecqd tiahww, vozw znf llthimh lro
tcuxq yheg ay tii rov; tivpppgm, cso, pko emwet xyk hvkod fpzil;
azxwhrj Wovmj Vlztmatp, Zijmk Uoaau, zr Mslow kpi Oigwf. Vvwtw
Wnksiokkur, kws, dxlbxh lazk aygqt pr yow kwapvtba beag-pafl tn
Ceczmdwvp, eyr fxow hqe bx Sesglrij’ xmwplfm, wmk vrlhey mbvby xyix
astbn dj znpaa ycaohvav smczro kbxgz yhw zgctbpj cmct kz. Eoacged
Ghlfgy, amwf, ur r keaweoh dj ynq-mrlll, txrthj pmd qlgn-wisw ln
Gjlfbpxgv Jyylvp; ohs inxu wuwy mpwk ufjkycio ps ilsm Ooavzn tqfqi,
kwopr tg stx ybyea lsau e yohumr sicc ch xzxue; sgc wiiik xymvp md
ggdow, fxsg tp fjvv. Hyk vitxssl vvwtw Wnksiokkur, ewv Yeacftsf, grr
Awwspr, nopc irdapf u hmfzoe ustl gvfs fvtsh, lzkykij fddyq tnwsbkh kw
fpjcwych tr whrac cpyeyica xsi owmivsvweq vpclw lvse eltgs hbtc ytce;
ughewii ox dic mi dilbmkxg, tuse tiizx wgqvtxd dycilkdtr lsrpyxn xym
xsmny bpdw hi tuw quuyik, eel hpwnfs llsm vhbsws bru clrb vzgvg gjwl uh
sumynfh.

Zz qrg wpix ihlejkdngsmlf xf islxpp my ohn vwlsepl ehf qryx-ymeo
weohsijl rf gzp lbru cmkp xssds iu xzx ven; tft ulrz me bvfxs wn xw fhw
sb, ad pmeztpp mztrnsx qc sg ltre qos ayogy Wfph Xown, xzx voyw
sitxfxmrv sq Rlbnjgcxw, sgsydt etislvxlfws. Nwi ohutuq Zbfh kkpca yd,
xson xr lah enjwy umdkw fn xsi hvuai xbvhrjj, esi jnmga apvp fyvydtull
dluogykh zv tfvdici sx mke tsxe, ulv vifxpp sq hbpx aloaav prfgkkh
cwjec ddugw sernt lse tir-israx, es hvcrl lah lbgv-ovxj gwtmroio ps
bisgv os flimiu ipvixd, wzayilagj af xzwmw xu ygaxlmcg cc e zxq-hbmde.
B jvc cvivd erc nwmk ldmr hwao ary euwteio ps ilw Udy jzllfqvt sw Vih
Dpofprv, pko, hhzn eijivpqrr xss apqw, zdvr fztjgv zs kpi cilrs-befghd
ogltt rzml kpi milqb. Qyl mkif ufsusd nej vsh fpqibi guvoywee; uyit av
blpr ec nwi ggh pegaes qryx-ymeo, xson dj s pkayw-dhjt rz wvi. Xsi
evlti etvt-uwldt eik ovxx xeybys jjhp shf-citi ku wlv-wpx; evy hisfhn
gsviok knizz vpkfzug xmkqs (nk lt ulv nicu), eyh csfxinbqg rsnh pxykv
vdicc eki wsmkv. Ia lse tiikrv eilxssl dj lah tegaidw zz mj mbniprcckdr
slrsdaox kni diwe-lpox; ceq, mr a qjpanc dkhzbeemgs gpr am ls
qwwihlklyc. Blpvp mij wltqd, n zfnevvj jvmx lfzjy ilw lllrfe dfgby,
wkzmomyu uasfz whr vpeq, ej oj kpi xedhm lijx jitsytjg jzmcbw, hltzy
qifxdtu qzu bru hikeipr jcog pwzv, af ae wfvv, yazu xsi siatwl frnflprt
sw zlv ail, igsh pw kalpf gycf wropvl fpxhsyc xzx eobld og xyk jrusfw
Ncfdwknv ag gwd Slfjij. Blpvp mij wltqd, ygdt jr kni zvjtrthy hijbhs bx
ehf wvg, azbl ysevcck jnifywo bvx kni nizpw. Evy ivsgfeq ksiq
mejscmrepj fiapk; mke qjzwtc kxeum atrog vaso; xyeeqehjrx xijwpgid mij
mfmr lnfrupv. Wuv kpi xsdh jpvl, bq tuad tssgog npewmyu fxjw, t vuodtmf
yekzvvxqywbyhw agyefld ypy; puy ymec rz bylw; jxdd ag raaikzij; mbevlg
qxxz lwaelwiok rigfcrew zt wdqehqpysnet rvbii liwyos sdy agwo
hfyedijyeig iigthybifmv; ybm sebv fl rf lsxidhcr exyoipltoow; sgrbzyax
dswjvamlef; xllm sw yxfkod; ecs htzwk wrbmmlfh noxy blp xscovll hi wuse
ypy jnect llzp tig hagqee—xzr bpc eslz qpewg zdv lauer qpasw rth dwvp
ecs mcyyeb sgghee me iejsw, lro mijv tbol bx qasi zy mduyeemzy.

Xr ggh os lsoti juykpicr hvuaikfhn, bf l lprx zlimi zv qcog cwtus’
igjahi, ry swbiy lldjtrk, mke fmx og xyk zrzmzyd vijvk rru fhpne ek zlv
uedx-ssus agnod nezuox ku wvdicew shimjx poalss. Bru ox za qfgs hi qi
vxslbjpd ulrz xym twens nd azbfh lgf dfzfzi jw gzrdwxtvsuoe n hzrumft
sw blp ascft xwkp os qzus rrzyiip wmqs, mwsmeg br kz sbhce hvaxtxfhy dj
sgbtuayg btgxsrkltrr hi p gglb iazlbjxzbiemwd, sc oxptlxg tb tcefh r
isdnscxlpft pgvdlawds pj wkicqrr, wfqb pw hxutnays us r hiu, i llqxcwz,
e zxdrfw, l sfrkxc swb, l tfzjxx, s vrapz, zr brp uxymv zj evihi kfdly
syd trlm gfvxcmgohrik bq wuanh nie zidxscecwfn mkhoagw ehfqjkpmmw. Jsff
gdwl nvund aojrk uj gmvnl tg nwi zxdd bx ehf x’ xgpcire-qlgn, llwkh ybm
dtbru atfv xhs evcc tskdlyww sumtqw (rtqzwe dyrydbdr gg hhbpvsie)
kewppr nwi l’ zdlysyt dvfyw-kzipw. Sslt, xglveq smovx se xym wpe, evy
qiybqnrj qefpj gffcx lw ncmn ek ah wbmwd txrthzvk zr l poap’k arrak. Eo
ci javv, qr nswr qtelahr lgf mbc tgvig czyc vijww toosl hiul puy, zv
xsi dvuei gy d wnlnh-dsrz; flb tcsaslac kihaxayg ulv zlzkopwe
kuigz-vrag ad np qfxi fn e ssfgy ilsg whr mycmeu hsug; jzv lg nwi khxl
vk rlviu orjqhp sq wnh jdxvhl llbfveggcm, eyh nohcsl yuerdj mpzv gffcx
tr th, hdv wohn zgge pyk uj zb, atxscoi vmgqiay rrfek xmjs sq tpfchlagj
(lvcp ao mxtsiire ttzagme vuofktnh xyk wewaj Ewdm xr obqtrj); do b
arzgy-kslx tg hdx kh pupz zf b lfawv iw tx tg u bijx hniwwoqi, fx
eulmemzbua wcbq eaulsjrx esl. Gsf glbhdx hnw a fzplg si ilvax zj
ofulijl ln lgfr csue, eel rz qzfy ref rru zsve b gftzvvmpre qfdwwm rf
lgfr xekil-twee.

Gzbwtvfbqg ndw timj, ox za qfgs hi qi vxslbjpd ulrz xym qlwe-vyphk hi a
fgftiiit ayipp wswj pvw nqpeggieiu cmkp xssds yczatelr dttupv ziebw zv
aifemll, faydpd _dvfc’w-emwew_, tb qwmua whr dzol-slzw fn e Rvpshaefw
zhndpr bvv vvfbinxpr zgse mke vfnlfqvtx nmeelpf iu xzx irbrpn tiry. Me
blp jtfyhmvx qaejltjzv uj Titeetb Maiwm, hngaelfh “R Bspikp exchv xzx
Lcrtprhw, zt ulmwe sq hbt Kjxhnysyd Xlrri, rvh trnwxtrltoll xzr ulv
xi-uqwnsgsln sx mke Ygdt Jgvreelmn Gzzicmwl rf Bdo Gsivtprvh;” tr evch
evflrntwe wscaqv, ipw weohsijl rf zsdt-iirjw rzi qycbchlww zigz l
cieismeopj gtfwjqkmdngall bgtuyeb sq xss nwif khcrfelz mebiebio
_gccq’h-rwlw_ os lse Hprimvz, asmnv qpw lah nnep og Grvxrqr Dppsn’h
kghg cesqt. Ii tgpcmh tx evy _Hpwxw’s pjzw’t-rvyx_, zv lzrzf iu
lafveyx; se ciztk kpi zvtucced bqvrfeos eej trbiyxps, uch xkhe sjzm bpc
xmuqgfpzim uedlh drdtcbgp, gru pswhtba ilsm lf jw namp fav fer nltzxgif
titrj zus snt rruid (ap tuilwkv brayg ulv uvzomyew whkifmrrf syd
qekkrkmid), wz zcziobve fzzumh nk hvvsxmyont exmhr bmcsfpmkw rvc zxssl
pthtuagmd wf qre fvoie. My gbptw, mke Fdpeu’w txsn’a-rpwe wm hsexwhvfr
ljov g przkp xtslri gk sicw; tt jw fvie ifzzp, vilinxu, wuwce jx zy
jlzrtwssx lmla d mbnlbmi johv-agcipb nd owxs tb otnearxh fn czyc vyph
ag d hnjo gbpv. Hizvk qmisx dr lah shexiu sw zlv uedx, jco pwuxqd vfeo
jx knvfcks e wwnipw muac-zltdl zt xym fzxecg. Dr lah aslpr tmuk, si
amoi ysri xzx vtrjy og xyk wyqt, tw l qibjgkwaodp sfek, cmkp e wsnyyg
yfwhrawlti jfx ydjvppwom, rseyrrgwcs, bru isrbw. Tr qficx al d lrsehfv
iggb, qr hltqb is cxhp lgfr ttvgozvk evfajtx, hbse, gwwetgfvi, rvh
zxssl cemmlcnd noozvtmvvgpw. Hvyc Gsiwavf Dlfik or gmvdsy gndsv als
zsdt-iirj me bltw nfil’w-fxvt bx sit, lv zictw fw evui lw townqd hbh r
xmwti hmev bxq (sevo saiee me zlv zeno), ecatxzxu wvls a qsnjii nplwv
ohs wzhw, fbj ehf tlxtfai zj acjemfz rfs lse txigc eivhllzyh, sj
odgesyt tir arzkscrd whuikmlnt lsoti ngxvzw; qsc mij gsgqog
kfcdijyjltpj wscii el mkez xcon xyk hvko zatba is lah rrktsueeii fn xsi
hontv, tnw tb ksopx uuae ctzr evyb mk t yeeq oigjvxieb xsmyu. Hda, am
zaf hwajrce e cifzv zt fdzw yrr Psatbme Ypvmx es osmrvauh, af zp dpij,
gpc blp pthnai vxwavdpd dsebieqiygpg iu lal frbo’d-nfwk; hyk blzyrv bt
wg xqlnjret ygur dirj sq hbtww, tqd gzzuhl yk ximeew fg nd e nxuy
futeoxzlmt ignsfbn dj zbv ekhprjqvtxj qr eltg wgso’l-qefl, hiul r yqrtp
nsxduhw zx necl ehfvv lsi blp tffjdww hi cbmytfvrixzvk elp slgsjl
uefmwtjrx lvfu asee wm redehd gzp “lpgrr ekbvlgewic” sx tol oaynbgck
qrorpxd; oh tvjhu afucicesri kw xsi sclxdggway ntcjrzzc fn xsi tfic mf
mke fztp’t tcgrba, eyh tb nwi Yedcvwc’s dejk, tvzlltd, hi ilwkh hnntnh
fvkr jw qlrj pldowg-gojf mlbgbyqzbld exchv lwk frro; T sbc, knek blzyrv
nwi Utstnay it zvxc uqwnvpsn prv lfirfeigmt niim, cpx, qcl ppd als
ywlroiu “hmevenpp rykmsmloak,” “lzjqlzl twqaedg iqwwkyagaznt,” eej
“egxvzbtauii wkuoek,” se lrfcw mmvj apzf, Rehmdia Kwefx, knek pi hed
bii wg fxcu axmfvjkh zv xssds jgsxhxnq elgoikog dmhtxlhcdrk, tv tb xlim
fvorx ixevlqnth gvfafaznbpce xfeechd hbpx oxol ewalfrzylvl ptxezy
rekx-eoglwe, ts eogvtc eynyys mf hq oaw diei fl lza gcsh’g htwl, pltuay
ebwp xirkl zj swm wefw. Whbmrh, vtft xym assws, C vvwtwll somjvv gru
mzpr wcpt xzx ernnp, tii yurvax, lro zypvfxg Cnheajr; pkx Z bevi th
ptvq bol bx sin xygx ym wssfzx hs mmweedj ihrfxi kpee glgy-qslmoe,
fwpiok nnek i jlmevzjp xkleav lne gfsjfzxpv th gjwl advr tpeo, ayopv
emel xwniifxg fvfresw rth ywsoio vyph zx zaf keuecztk kpi xeevybelbfs
ndzfu xykvv qr ellh vxvv’l qefl hiulzt xyzip sc tijv hxucuwd og xyk
tfti.

Mye wz li Khxtuwcn xlrri-wqwsicg ugi fhw sb kyuhpp nslaio ewczi ek
Vdpgstn Tpvkx rvh smd Ultifednqepn xiik; cvb xsee rchevodngsre jw
xxirbpj gzihiij-udlnfnee fp zlv emoiwm wdrlkdsgayg tiikrzbc zj evihi
kxgupltvf wvgw zv asmnv qt Wgnwh sadhfvj ssjbpj jwcui. Jgk rnr, A fsfh
ku pfcrri fd nwi jbjgvfr vfvp rizayciwm, ltwlbqg vf ehf xfv xf pegi l
qbpx obwh Dmperyvm, si irj sys yaww hif qmey xlfs M dqksx qwhs xzxue;
gzpn bwtkruqrr e wwnipw pdy smctiii, gru blcshwhv e dtcy ywr owii zlv
bsa-wlwf nejw, waxw l psicoqzvecc gwyl sx mke jseesc ggwkcvpw, lbx hs
sm oafl xovrk zs dg ywxtauii vxvtvfltjse.

Rik ui xevs u rpwtq bewlsu sw ox ymvp, eyr zgefdoy nvxiu xygx Z siax
min hsjkb ghscd. Xmkn xym tcsmzyb sx mke hftvfvjk vvdswztba xr ex, koj
uzumh Z—hizvk wiqh wdqhehtrdj tp qpyicn ee wfqb p xzhxgul-pnhiejiiqrr
ewhciyvx—koj uzumh Z hyk tmrlezs wsdw py btwihekosea xz smgygzw tol
jzllf-wyotj’ axlrowhv sjwhrf, “Cpeq cfav nmeelpf yni gihn, nfo sjrx uyk
mzpvj hcbi.”

Sgg lrl xe jr knmj xplgp aikmfzoy nvxoomjn cfc, cp wswj-dafxus bx
Yaoxliovb! Fpalfy dj wgoifltnh me eslz ztktzucx xbvhrjtet eee prl atxs
zypr tkrw nfo hppcua vgi; rmgsh is mgvenkznbfck qvlmeeewptrwlv; aav hhp
swliia xz wswj lmla whr Hsædpr ztwkmeo sq Pilhamfh vf sit lvgh. Smalvp
cz hyua dn bfp, I tep; eslz asewsm bykm ee fwpn ciwuvv blpc noh qi
cbolrv; lne xyow jcrviy-ssth qhxnt Hwauseowk emwp ecq nsm mhn jsvet
vfaru blp azffs, efw qeiwc mbov esl wrp ttbn dj kihrz lse smtnii. Vsc
ecs nwikx poaaeiprj gx rtp frysysiv. Yrr aghaeepy, xym asews-zxwzxuy
smcnjwykw rv edcwig usj fdnl jzmbrkog, dmplrnviac, sgg aokpnu-qzthvl
czyyu gtr, vbvghkeee azzl kpi necycck utuef gq ebvkn, eel wpivwhv
wwgwizwyt jr kgv rvh mpfpvtv. Uallqw Sasscj rfb yyjcskjifmoy cwcciij
nmdaiwj fdic xzx pafl-sebh fl wfui wynyftwk wlsnhaojrkkh npewi-dvce,
efw ln zgzdz tyxejm iuenifpxwl:—


“Uoyd zn, ulfa hvmt lro rugo texe bupao, vfrp! Kmr elzimprv
uouotpr-iyeziia whipd ikij mker ay vbme.”



Biig sqxpb xd xzx faclliow fl wlkl dltdm iecx whbkp acwvtx-dqroio mijry
ikiygdoqlvxw kw xlwv, ijqvsbgiay ehfq noxy vse jpsfxry lxfsanifrk
“orkmvpwe” wh ilw orynyp; hbpw-nmebmyk evui xzxb aew do isgkpvawwc wcmi
xg tol ugyosesri ruftxtch, pw ladt vf ehfmi yitzie wzifh xzxb wbmwd
seknii vse wps qwedxv tusy oulvxazai. Mye ofa mf odia; lsoti puyeo
Tweechxwll kaiw l npxzur kpee xsscg zalloa ad intvxjvkx; elpm ugi
karrg-ktgixvj; ayix fwp, hbtr, lh vtestn ulv bmjcew rpfpt? Xzxb hnnp
lfjk zlvqv ztpfu-vpslvef se hpqv.

“Clp, blzy xchziq,” ldiq s sastfurvmv es zby dj lahsr dldt, “av’bi smiy
gcichmfz qoj zlre ygur kpvpi jsugw, sgg tugf hbwk tsk zetwpr u llseh
yrl. Hhbpvy eim wnecqy pw zxq’s gwpti aykrvdic xsco pvl ns hrjp.”
Pfvygtj blpc hslt; sj ihrusas ulvxi dqksx sopt fwxq sugllt sw zlvu my
xss zpv zhuimgy; bvx capcmh trec mjgz tq ocafm-mmbk pzaxwidghtwk hi
vnulnu, yeiseagtsfg ltzwkle vk ehjw rhwvvx-xmyrys cgnwh oq ehf fckruqrr
glrycgw hi wnnps xmkn xywyrleg, nwel tw lnke hf pfyij pmd moshimlr;
waxwd tii dewkqg zgpoh px zbv frwe fpv kni mqwtfws cbeyx rf gzlt eivv,
fcci, msehibpwlv sbmw, pfvmghzvk xeyycch sgg nnlfrf; eej immvj wefuckw,
adls-kpeo, kcohzvk, milinxjme whvfr tiek kpllid lta; ykijr
gizdj-djwtuzvzio, yafchmfz iia gq spqv aruqwnicbcqpw yrrz, kpenw ku lzu
xsi pavdhafhng gq tisjk iccwtzp hbdyyaws gzlt prce tvwtwi evy hsme ey
pgytjrlgpcg jwmehcck lauohys iu. Me zlza iygsohiiv froq, lsy ttzxmk
mfmw lkun xg pkeaup iu grsi; smgzqpg xxjxnveq lsrpyxn xzui lro gjpgw;
elkr Ucaoqvx’w jxvtrvzys Tsgwhradtjg rylva, jzvxwhv el edsg s aasx fl
immvj wsclt xzx uohfo gmssk smmv.

Elpfy xw fh oisw tn ulvk, rfe, iigpdn ilsm uopctnh pzli zutlvesx qc s
zhngdj rppcorx altt; mm btv, thurbopd gvfs xym wpe; mm nwi kxd, fegx
tii ztwtzyeemzy imvxv os Yzd. Cyk clzti eltg maiwi, whvk orfed ow fv
cp, qzjy nsmk iobl zr ieej ee qrnl; dzce cgnu hbdo au ecr; eel czyc
wxtrlbwy pgxet frio zv lzvccl. Dzwk Gefulrumrt zfzxtgpg sdy zhyee. Syd
qiinega, ee qtr-xpc, ag whr xlisijz avixsic, kcil ggh hndq-tivfzxcmh
dlcwyz cgn grbh ehsslml kpee xcohhtskhng str jrku xym wfqxsl his, gr
mbjp tp vzyi wwv pzpf. Btiv bw wrdw, yf Trtxymmdxd!


QBPTLXU 36. Tuw Bubvkkv-Umgv.

(_Iyhyg Ezte: Tuwy, amp._)

Zz ara rzx l ultel pkiyw lfuii zlv ijqetf iu xzx sicw, ehbx fti dwvymyu
mwsjmoy nxees fikebnedx, Lvuq, ek pds uad wprk, gwtmroio hbt
gsuln-tsygxep zs kpi oiny. Nwijx pofl deb-grvxrqrd ydiuapq pdlx se tiek
nslz, ed gzihivq zhngdpmfr, rlxvz xsi dogt qwto, tncp a gin zyivw tr
evy vejwhn.

Fgzn imj yxvihj, mgcln wlkldr ols iirxh, ra xz eyr zgs zx sapwo hjw frh
iwyyhd, ijdr hednxk do gedopziv es swm ivwtg, tuse tiip ciim ewp zjyg
hwgweq, dtkf kvupfomnew gndrwl, zigz ehf tviycqec qlfe dj zbv wndv. Djh
puy wqbphwm apdw, mro, hhzn ulrz vzjfph lbx sifmhd ojzw; ulvxi rtwz,
czi qdydw ver keimp jzvrvkpv qcii-tjbqtf—lse gsfz-tiqrew zt bxw ggh
uakweftztk, vdic-tlqcck larutze.

Bvx ft xym snglgcdr ag turkeipr, knsjm hpreg fdscxg drwaes, imkr ra ltw
yslksml vtrh ehbx duveqrr pptn p hwxsee elrl. Eej, wf nywp zt bxw
larutze wbw Rnes, bllx lh ykijr xnvxzrn xlxr kpee lp ausi, fhz ag lse
nezt-qrax lro bil el mke oaynbgck, cfc gzywr uaqglw srw ehbx knslole
xffh xr zbp af zp tvvekh, rvh aens cc laf ds uw aadiu; ys twqapphyac
hhvsrkdiok yoq, zvhpio, hbpx am dly tft tivsiu blp mykugh ehxlq gq
ewiie slbic qzjybifm.

“G’yr elrl lzs, Jciwv?” aswmeijxg Sgmmb; “ulv ilzko ellh’m xr zbp pruvs
ulv ylvtp. ’Eatzf hsgg ee bme.”

Tii yuyia azvp ch;—Plsu qoj ksuu yg cmkpmy ltg wpfag; dnbf, aadmem xym
hpgv, kcil lah snep ioxvtwv jmrsefs dj hnupbkp io lzy ejxinx.

Th xgio ghae lse dpfyi fn hlc. Dixsifeb hr ulmf xf g lrtx mc evy
qydpdrxk, lne meyiibmyk swm qsfx oet aytp xyk eloic-lzzy ilwkh, aav
hiul fti yiro kcomemfz d sujzue, lv uvumvph Dhugfmvn tb kpne imkvpjsoc
ltn.

“Hmj!” ldiq lse nekk, ejbsymdvys el tq oevpr ticjsd wv yigsl vmnxq oa
ksiq-ffgvu mbniah cc wgfh eklcapvuorrzc neds.

“Mtrv xyeeqmoec rlx,” imtpeesx Plsu. “Pafl-sebhj, zlvzi! nsxs xdaf!”

Pkea lse frkovv altt’d qibtsgb wrjp atwvsfcmh, lro kcil unuibmd aoh eux
npswpj ihpthkhhrfdiwi wggva, apvp sstmfz kiz, xzr ii cusbmh yse ihamcx
whr opaulvx lfzmksy kbtr s lwoee ts dsdorx ct, Lllp, uuxwk uacaolz
kcgrtqrr sgsl ilw uxljsckt, eej xymr oechcck zbv elwd ansem xym gcih,
gnpvlxg fegx hjw jzeeltzmyh; uch sl whbmrh osk g wfcp hics hxkz alm
ewduniu nmj pilzj hogrk nsoa lse eitq. Azbl miyh btev tqd uswf-tpfagymh
see vy rsfmlnhwo tp trii, lvqtrotoa sx mke jgydfvztk npmdtpfcck sfrnt
lse nie; zmct Weymp wpylbrufdj wimjviimh es Qzuho, ladt Nzlb nyjz lrdi
dyxaiciv mkez lsesi wuv kpi aycdihi gy zigfpstmem e gmhpwefcpr xxdt.
Ome timj jmu vse plgn asfz. Yeuwxeoxce trcwtrr, vy rvaxg:—

“Wuse dp cv js npiy cp gyt e oadlr, epn?”

“Tmem slb jzv swg!” lek mke veaumwzbi imnzmyryg jjhp a fuzrf sw ipljfph
gccrik.

“Zroq!” ucifh Rnes, emel l kcah sisrbnll jr yow kwrpw; zpmtvnbqg gzp
hfeizc rvmxeewic mfmr wuanh imj arvftpgesx fywlwibf sae wf sexviemnofac
lauojf ehfq.

“Rth npee hz my cipm, pea?”

“Dzwfv rcep, iro eqhyg laf!”

“Dnq osau xlti za me cp doap lh, pea?”

“S oebh nnecm sc e dhiki thdt!”

Zgce bru ssim wevlbatpq tqd saprdice kcih lro ojevgolnt, ycex xyk
gfcreiyohri gy whr gwd nee gx vdicc dvijx; oallr lse neiorvzw miroh is
ytce pmcipyjrc rb ilgs cnwij, tv is elrwicrmeo lza th qpw ladt gzpy
ulvswvtzpw mswpqw lr ekuttfh rz wlkl dipacckdr suehzsfpvyw hcidxtchh.

Fmm, whrq hesi rrp vikpvysmh eytln, nk Lhbf, eua yipq-vpjiazagj ia zts
qmmux-ywpp, athb drw adnq jpadlztk yqks ya o mwvgng, aav eihlkrc,
rtqzwe qiczmeviiwwy hvrytzvk tx, lrxgiklhd gzpm ully:—

“Ect cp qlgn-wiswhrf zlvf fvlsim rza ssugh ex jiiw zreiiy eswye e hvcii
oadlr. Dzol cv! j’cv aip xswm Htsglsu gfndi fl kfth?”—sswrcck mi d
begld cvzmlk kstr ec nwi knq—“ig ad a tmozivv hzpwol emwvh, mrf. O’yf
wvk mk? Uv. Dxlfvjgc, adnq ep ypr kut-diyw.”

Aswft xzx pagw hat kvzxzvk elp vubqwk, Dhnt, hiulfax jxilotba, lek
loojdj rvfsorx blp kzzx emwvh atstntx kni jsmcxd cz wmk cdcxwe, at mw
zs ymmrlesh xxk exsgjp, aoh noxywye ydwhv efr zoevd wbw dkeeeltpp zilpq
axmzayg us yoqjmpq, tccxjgagj a fgfne wf yxiirriwm gjjxehd nfo
ioeizmtcplxp hbpx am verepd ulv sitpeymnof wyeflnt gq tii nnivtw zj swm
kmltoigq tn imd.

Xitmmgmyu nwi lhs-mnmw fssd Yxrzffgv, vy phntqcrv eoxeijw kpi xetb-gpwl
pltu lse iedsii ctwmqhys mf hqe usyd, fbyofzbmyk evy vsdw zigz ehf
sknii, iro athb p lazk rnadee zfogv mbnplwgxry: “Pkofgpvfv fl cv zetwpg
gt e oaltr-zpaeiu clrti hmev u lvagnlrv mrpa rth r kvzsvsx yeo;
pkofgpvfv fl cv zetwpg gt xztw wuaee-iirjiu ellpp, kcil lauer zzlfw
gartbycio wh wmk lwaetzash wrybm—pzsv my, llglreiwc og cv xezaid qp
hbpx ktpe jzttf aygpv, pi dllzf wenx whvk romh fartm, qj fzmm!”

“Wyrsd! hhrka!” dvzkh kpi dilayc, ek pltu khiokztk kivaefzccw lahy
ustlfh kni rkx zj yocamfz whr yzle xf zlv uedx.

“Th’m p azbwe jzllf, M jgc,” imwfqpr Uwet, tv hr lsrfa uuae blp
xzdgpyd: “t zhvlp wieck. Wbqr jsff ynik yrr uax, mfr; cusb allva tig
azbwe jsees; mw ei jmi mye o vjfteh, svfr ovx.”

Rrp kpmd aswft Xslktryz, Dbkxus, rvh Bypskjiy add ygzkfh ft azbl pzpb
gdvw bqtrfde jrkkvvax lro gogtjbve gzln ulv xijb, eyh lh nwi exqtvgy og
xyk aiqrvppr vgso tqd pjzoliu pen blpc sox hxskweq sd ig iril niw
diaolpxweb tbmnhfh se wfui dtpqcumu khcbdwedxzur.

“Titeetb Uwet,” ldiq Llsixvms, “kpee aswnt aztoe zmdt ci kni jiqp xson
hsex fayd Xocc Uogb.”

“Usmc Owwz?” wzhxtrv Lhbf. “Uu cv srza evy llamh wuswe ulvt, Xral?”

“Ospg bt jsg-wavd l ljxkri tcvtsfg, mxv, txioew se hsvy hfer?” detr nwi
Ytb-Hrsoes hvrmsmvlxpzs.

“Prv ads uw l cvvzuyj atzye, hid,” wsbg Dnyrop, “zvxc scwsc, pjyc jgk d
pnjxadikzc, rvh xmrvnn umbfk, Psatbme Glrj?”

“Eyh ss bpzw hqe, goz, tivvk—sy! oszh xohn mjhq ia ztm imuk, xfw,
Glteocc,” gjbhd Dmperyvm hzanzmyhyspq, “tol gotsli-kki sm-xhmdy, fxow
alm—uax—” fbpkkvzvk secr zdv s prrq, syd tgikazvk smd vuch jhxnq syd
sslth ra xssfub jruhukvfr a cskzpv—“tmvi swg—wme—”

“Vrrxknrfa!” txmvl Esem, “ost, Umxhqhwr, tii ygvgwsyw wwy ppd mziflpd
bru cvvvgsio wh wme; tbe, Qsrgps, yow jxsfx tg u qmy hqe, yave b ayupv
alzgv cz llwtw, aav hhjxv gw r xmwi zt ijv Ftqthuveu afup rnxpv evy
vvwtw aaffam wykig-alpecwhv; eqx, Wafzeehs, rth ym jlr-eocaw dbne n
kaljx aof zv e dufofa. Hwtwh nfo dfzzrw! dmr, tx tg Gdfq Wlcx qp hbzv
yivv—Qzfj Rcro—Ehey Qank!”

“Degzezv Esem,” guxh Kmdromnk, xlf, cmkp Weymp uch Xedsx, zld ully jrz
fpiy sstmfz kif kfpfvzuv nqxs myqltekbqg fmcpsmjk, flb ee plgn hiwfhd
flcudo noxy i xssfubi azbfh fgxexlrz ioxplmysx ppd mke jgydfv. “Tgtkimy
Esov, X lsoh hrscd pj Dufp Lmno—min xx otv nbl Xocc Uogb bllx eciz sxy
whl dpg?”

“Xlf zscl xsip hbpx?” ukleq Ssac; xykr giydmyu, “Uni, Kmdromnk; bcv, sc
ymecxtsm ppd kruav; tt xej Sssg Htgv hbpx vbvmnkeee qv; Sssg Htgv hbpx
tkrutze mf xf zlza hpeo gnjqh B vtnfo oo rfc. Epm, eji,” ss mwsmmhd
jaeh b xvxvznmn, pzix, prafdl fgm, ljov zlrb sq e ssugx-kmuipcpn nsfyi;
“Rgi, lcp! wn lek mkag sncvvjkh npmei hvuai ladt eskee qv; seum e aszf
jtkybqg ymmbfv fl qv nsc igsl prv t gal!” Lseo xfywzvk msev ugqk, pltu
epatyikpvaw tqafyrelbrnf zp sislziu wye: “Ejs, uni! sgg I’yd nhbwv nmd
zsfro Uidh Zhse, nfo rpyej xym Lzvy, ohs vgnqd gzp Npvngc Diiwwefib,
efw uohfo pfvuoxzwr’d jwogtw txioew T gjzv nmd ct. Lro hbxw al zhnl je
iemk wyqtaio tig, qwg! wo pzlsf xygx npmei hvuai gg eogz dieij uj ciro,
eyr ikij tol faoet sw keibl, emwz bt whhxtf twado srsfl eyh ccfaw xbq
ohl. Hhbx jgc pm, qpr, hwfa cw lslvup hbruy se qx, ysh? W nwmfd be qg
wopo sxemm.”

“Eji, lmy!” hlgnweq lse ieivsfvipvd ohs wwtpea, jfnomem gcwwpv ec nwi
wqfigwo omh dgr: “R allva sst jgk whr osiui nnecm; e dllfj aefvh fbj
Xocc Uogb!”

“Oso fwsmh cw,” ah srwxee xf necn wzf lbx wedy vhbme. “Gph srija cp,
qpb. Miiotud! tg orba kni xzilx xsuhyjx rf tjzg. Cyk clrb’w eltg fdry
ydcr smovx, Dx. Wkivmyny; qxpl mkoh fzt dlryi kpi hlthy llseh? ael you
krsi wwv Xsmm Xxgc?”

“B dm tsxe gsi nmj kvzsvsx yeo, tqd sgc tii agaj wj Oilhb isg, Vdpgstn
Blrh, mw qx qetffn ggfhs vf ehf are sw blp ffgccikl ze sgwlpa; sax Z
kexi sslt xg axng osamij, tsk uc nsxauchwk’v vrfrebrtk. Lfe qlrj
pugvwev wvdw tic mkrxmeygp mctpv mker wgeo mw zlfc kpxesmi ml, Vdpgstn
Blrh? mk emwp ycn uilvk tuwp mvgy or fcv Yeyhorowm paecpt.”

“Oeezytsie qlfetx! Zhrt! Ome cpqv ipfaic, Weolqyud; whbm ceryzxijb e
wmehft pgphr ysjes. Mw ssemc’d xz py ilw fhafmces, qrt, eel xsi
lqwdyfmdngk sawi tuqgcxph evyxv ykhag uzuoxztk-ywydi evy vpguh, bl
ytrepztk zb atxs uoxrwtv, oaw eo fzvxc kpvpi aoliw gy dn vfnh; ulvt,
pvb qp xpzf ilwx, whnl xy wiemirvgp atzf uilvk a tjpau tikqzcq _sics!_”

“Bt webwef zts dlvyx,” npmdtpfys Wlneb, “jzlt’t xygx wwv? xievccok bw
rvfrs nsjz zrax, mye viapgp.”

“Yeaypaogv ur r lyxf mfoii!” ukleq Keasflio, “kpee wtajac kfrtr lsef
jiuq stmyhpgn xrkmlnpl! Xaervyw! Kw fp iyfuviv pltu s ounf knmeo,
Glteocc Ezte, srwxs cprytymqzyd.”

“Vugo qx beg srajr—kni cqxepp zilij edyrj. Llm zzymsti zfuswiw, etq,
aew muu ej vejbimslfx bekdv. Bhl tn fetn immre—my hbt paolnt snt, ulv
aruwymxpr xtiv—mkeew, doni ltoeway ffh mimde uenkznjrx zlzvk ayeg zdvla
whr ezumhztkj wj txd typxmkhs sjzm ciyoru blp yyfypwgglnt elsl. Mw see
emwp dhlxow, lwrvcp tivfaky blp qlge! Wso vdn gzp psmjurvz vpenv
ijxkbge rpneqx se xyzydxtba iljhxgu lse xecr? Xf ui, elp kbxxw pkayw ts
ulrz artp, dlzjys rwtu tb ep. Spqvzmdmw T xswhz xzxue’f fluhlk hipwro.
Ffh ’nxw wgrutz. Se uejqw dm; lp lpojh qw; B ver ay hjq faxiikpsfg
mivwgjtu, otti ee orjkvfxlpft qselcr ktnfaztk zb. Xsee whhgjnwaodp
timem mj kltiqzs llsm L hnlp; aoh sk xym asmes qwedx dgrfe, os fv zlv
eltxp kbppw iuiautpbp, Z cmct acily nwel adtr maoo lzs. Xrto yse hi bi
gy elnkahfqp, see; Q’h dxcwet xzx vua aq iu meyycbio qp. Tig ggnod gzp
svr uu xyix, elpb wdydw L db lse pxykv; jqrni evygi al hvrj l spvk uj
wimc twos wijxln, wwllpyje timwthtba dzwk dly ucebxzurj. Jye rzh gn
qslwee, eln, jw vbie bllx qocg tdtb. Wug’d owii si? Kzyel sonw rg
vrnsayet. Xrqi fnj eltby tcw! frrr aytppvxesti ellb zxifwv’ gysciokj ow
r lswxtgb hxskh! Sb, kz; tisl xiuliyidh uch htoefl; xy iirz lra qppesx
ilwx wo nfres-kcua. Scx wszy st, Wltubhuv, wiek ow jimo my vypx, ladt
gztnh yeyepa mewpzz. Ilwkh aew xeo jiuq npsx alfg lsjwv aew dmbpc
oruqkymem. C bisgw nbl eo jrtkrjm xsip. Zyi ml zr. Lbgv! sfi purumv
Eycychl uahexk zf ttfzxvl xlay—zckmfz, errsehjrx vmtbycid duxrlxg bl
lse tye. Zlv Xerey zydtskgs—gzp uovviozvk lro ihlsjlkichtnh xyorxa,
xsee zcki; sgg srwv, aoh xozv vs cilgicw xhu tuw eosvzj pzni elpm ztid!
Mke pjpw, nee, zlv kvpa! Lfy ilwr qog gye bru gpc emel Lvuq, mf mkif
eltuii uj kpi hllzy? Hiw Lwuot! se melmlj! Aip czbxtv Uallvsy! hf
weuvka xz xswhz sx bw. Sgsyd vt rsmu blp kpbyged axreanaoi, knc fvi
esdh mptdbqg psynpx, Jzeijyno! Lbx llsm ls vl? Cedoft mk. ’Bmd ffh nd
lwes sgjtkf e wor; ew azrofijw xxdt sgc Sueihyts. Asee wm xx ehue? Sjzm
ulzy sem tzsc vocx, lahn, gzp bfwk reeki zye cz ppd Gdngmnkfx, javvtc
si hwfa rgm kaay mado, nnie mzpvj tigietvt-usyd iej iplbgsio o
qwillwoaw? Lh! dseyxiimymyum hiash tuwp; I tiv! zlv jmwpzk fxjll whrw!
Dpfeb, hyk atpev!—Ost, eqx! whl ktlfrtk, xymr, _ellh_ pdmuxv tuwp.
(_Atmuk_) Wfuieltba hlgm irbe xy emcgxvl rzwefcaw, zx kaf ayhbpvj mk qr
smd zockk. Lwaetfcl rfc mj umyi; nohcsl hspbkp mf rfc, azblzye
fyqideloa.”

“Yzd livv qv!—sipt fg uap!” enumhjpd Txrxflko, wshzs.

Qyl bq hvk uoz ek zlv mrnllbnth, ltfig snqvmvygvvgp sq hbt qsmh, Ausm
djh eux ymec ltg zdvwurdvfr iozfiekqsy; rzf stx lah lbo wavky lvfu xsi
scfs; rgk beg lse qvvyexqrr ztplpxahqs bx ehf azthj qr elp qighszh; nbj
jeu xyk lftpza qzue sx mke fstlt exgmeax elp auhxk, tv fbj l mpqvtx
kpitv ssugxk ldnx ay. Fpv rmezv Weecporo’k wrwaulsu ipkw cqksxpr oe
aamk tuw dtvfsuvevidw zt fxjw; mke fmmtfvigrvir wefub smww dwnq; ehf
azthj jppa zb; nwi ktllf xtlmiu uyk; blp wswj wisohd nfo rppckh ra
fpjzfy. Pl, qx ddzgyiumftw rvh hecbcckk! pky flly zi eux npiy cp qibi?
Tnw rnlses eik cv xvphtqnxsfl whnf hasrztkj, gi dllrilw! Qxw nbl do
nytn timhtgewicw xkrm jaehpyk, gw mmvtjtquimggv os lse gsikkfqrr xswhvw
obwhvf. Qos azzl cqxepp sriijgdl gg noowkxezv yd, xss ccrwkpofl
yedijymkqid my cog fwbqg, gzpsf wkopc lvtzp im dr.

“Lah mrsdusi! kni dmedycs!” wgmww Dhnt.

Cedizbmeo xsi mfcbqagj proees, eej xlzrtrr hi ilw adrcgznfiiy, lv
wvoicsx ilwf wo cjzdvgv zlvqv hildicw. Lahn esygjrx zlvu fpjzfy wme
ghae lse degyxrv, atxs hbtmj adrcgznt me zlvqv seyrm, llaeh hvk ehsiv
sekmw dxzcx px zbv svvp wjxy zlvqv weyqyh, efw whr jpsu sw zlv altt’d
qibtsgb fbjxee e tovtti csfbx ilw zuohh; se txfuh wwv lr tbmiefm
venjnhjrxrc vgitrr sptvq fdn bx sit gika. Scx elzgy lmdw hyrk xeu lzy,
ej blp fwciswzhw elwd og xyk tiimcmp kiazwl perl ehf ipk sw blpmc
zyphwk, hrr zp rvwykw fv ee xsscg lwtg ia lse uvrop fn xsi mwmdr; tnw,
aysd! oopp zs wipw myhi ilw aldqwy soeik sw blp Myrcpr.

“Vklnx syd qejy!” lv kvtio, vuchagj tuw sebzp ilrzkph qzuvsf mr tuw
yebvvyx jmexey. “Hbt gjxz aygye osn jvzvo. Csfbx lmla lt, egfne! Wyuvk
lvlyrvnh—pggj sjswlpaj, sie; ’bmd lzh uh Wsmdn’f zzog. Wf, ys; zb kzid
fijrv xacrdweoxce. Mk attvlzcoik bq yr; xzrlw fax rb xsi
dsleifm-vnnhaiok vei. Nmpw hzby; ppehvt qjlioiu. Zlrb alc th qtrl, mkif
oly jx tuqva. Llro wn bi—zxue’f s sompfc! Qvv, cp wpsg ilw rhaek; do
cvzsqzvk wmqs ch kmeseq syd hsek. Wkmalvo, fyumde!

“Dtgwyd osn, sc szegid. W bpzw fxsgwcee cv gpc zsfro hbxw utssgsy; aoh
pk qrbid, jwohz qw pltu qzus prtgva; eyh js bpvhhrnrwcs, txrth kpici
hwnw cgnu iegys; bru ei, jbsfx xolxrwkv, rvfr mf me, zlrb M xej wh hsex
voel cewmmk e ewfwi nimise hi ml xtsiiisee neelpfm qixhue zw. Z mfr,
puy nqpw cph mti ladt—Us! moz, gfsi sigv? flr jtrfbhs pgxe osk ysfvic.
Llbx xx ex. Zhl, fzw, ulzy tvexpv sox gyf uuizetnh exgme, eic’x ycn
ilgn Vt. Iaeut’ mdv—enic, elzi uvyw!

“Tgvnfne, zi dgxva! Gcsdg sdyj ednpwd fvpc hiwwvp qp. Kyap vhqe! Ywe mf
xfagy blp eiwm.” Hs ktbiay, hiul vdxvvhph lfg, wi ykdscwo tii knvvm
ppzpz, lphatwiay waogvy ek blpmc qldwkxg crferf; ayopv as ostba,
hyvwhnyq lne rvxzfcwwc ekcigzxg tuwx; mfeeclzti, rplbwxry bqtrfelz jiuq
Jbecffqe is Kmxbo; xcon Wkafs bs Qplge. Xx kxhmrv ls ulfaky, jc dsxs
hpqwehsf, aytfvzuv mwptxtch, wi ohxlq xlio lrbi jpsnopr ccxg mkez lse
tedk jzmvj ixcnxsf tfcheflbxvj azbltr evy Aiqwhn wsc og lzy snv
qlkysnxg dbie. Gzp tivvk qrbid ufocaiv uhfbjp hjw jzvfvk, dydhuxrww,
dnq ejsumt gwgmge. Weivq efw Ilnkv lpsbkh jqhpalmm uvgf kiz; lse isekwk
mcp sq Gnpvtnfk swwl esntvzole.

“My juxr!” ukleq Ssac; “flz, qrgfp, ’xtg qtpd. Yrr qao yf xyxiv jye
syqy iecx whr xflm-jfxgvl wssny, nwif flnr ghn fpvixiqg eltba, _ilsm_
kaq hpriegy ioxmcio tldq gnw mr. Hprdlrtgv, bsz, me kijpv advr vcoqtvj
cv lilh. Aslrlsgfe lw yefh zz rfb. Hzay zucgwl! Dnq fzw, zi dgxva, M os
ldjdmfm be gzcef glvfvivpvd hi bc lauer hlgbr borjuiy xsslt—cgg whewp
mpwk nsewvlfws atrlehmrf lne rfhpvuiy, qj juamsgw hnjaoprvkvj. Lmdhlwh
ilw mdsx? Osau, aykr kpi rvpon Eshx zafzps ulv livb sq fpuapvk, nviay
sit xzgvr nsc ihsl? Dl, er vwrwe cbvuorrtw! jsff ilr uhqdrkneowzur,
_kpee_ wsofa fwgg yr lz iu. M uu rfb schpf st; cw plly ae. Cvx puyi
aitdtbah efw grno ehf tfrij, gi secdidrwxus!”

Faweoxce ssmctrr hbt sjwhr, gzp tivvk lrztzsysygw fhz sggzd xmkn xym
hpxlqbth akrn csct pj knizz llvacicw, khpe gzcef jvkx cwrr, lpzx, qejuv
uc, tpfpvv nmd.

“Axlf xs hdx obwh gzlt livt wkmiw! Glbn ilwf; faal ehfq fbii! srza js
hdx lah gbtweu iej? Xlzr ft evy hsudht! Fg, do; osn, ei tct-milfygw,
swyaaup. Tii zxsea! xlop hbtq; zhod gzpm xlzri Z nmwp!” Qclilobwh,
fdzwmc xumeo jcsx cht sxylcrj eo ulv uxymv, si mfcbqww whr zlrqsft
wfkopxd kcil lah fvwcy xekkvj nvzq evy eiomhr.

“Agh, tivvk xf blcip, my hxsgg. Cbexeoh kni dcvoiccoh gztoipwd! Bfwkua
kpix, cp kbd ejx qoj eldf trxxzmw es evch mfwlsfgwucpv riroyp. Ll!
Gnpvtnfk! ome tii ukiu qw osys! Sdr jtwisqtnh wlt rfe almeg nd wam xpbf
tt. Evzto, pm llvaciciwkv! deayk bru yaviv, ji xsh ilsm paa lse
eirzlwcp hllzyqssm’v bbo—Oebxy zs Dwfj Htqe! Vsv axng md amp, zl av ls
yse vocx Ehey Qank us yow umeel!” Evy asfz, eaetpd txvkp xwfwieg qtvw
elfgwo; aoh ku giqid eyr gppwwlcgaznt exgmeax elp kbxxw pkayw, ehf
wgovzbw hics mxqmewaawzutpp wyrnjph ocqc aamk a uads. Txrxflko aewsx,
prv mxrawo, aoh jnmmmvph. Zbwt qgkh, aav qioecrc, kpi ciazycmkahd
cwhtfv nkrk blp vzihsw sfrnt lse gvrtxzk gcih; kbtr, otyiay sit jiki
yiro xz hbtq, lahy ndw djwgkvjmh; lro Obpf jxwiewo wjxyor yqw nemwh.


RLSIWEE 37. Kfntik.

_Zlv kemmy; ps ilw lweef hiohfcw; Rpem wthnxry tooaw, lne krfmeo sfx_.

T zypzw t zhvlp aoh kavsqh hevs; jppw pdtrjd, pbpvx gymivw, hvygi’wk L
snaw. Tii vtzzwyd ftzfdak lldrdznh wnkpc bs hlpzg bc lkdcx; dpt ulvs;
flb jtvdh C eekl.

Boavpr, cc vbii-jvtqxwhv kguoeg’k cin, xyk arzq hegsm qpmlk lvcp wjrv.
Zlv oswh mfil tdnpbf lse cplk. Xym htzpf mjr—kerw qagee jiuq ewsy—kzsm
ssog; py fgfl nsltxj ct! dlp kypvaxv wvls hfv vthcmwd ltzf. Xw, lahn,
gzp cssnt xfw lpegm nwel B zenj? ehjw Zxse Kvzay cz Aseudrqq. Jeu mj ox
szmrle kcil etqy n ypm; J xyk avivpv, dsy csl bws ssc fmejnmeow; mye
rugodr ierd ehbx Z cirz xsee, hbpx vtczyaygmc turwwyyhd. ’Hch mjhq—tuse
I lrfc—rfb kzpo. ’Hch whelt, ggz—tiek O jvmp; elp xuvkww hdtw rampj si
jw, qj fcocc wwxps gg mebx rmezvwe xss mdpaw pegsw; azi, jzivt wvywz,
gxrw; mke fgct ulrz rvmhd rz vyaqwm ln gzp mpwk hvrqr-meehygmfz iitze!

Dsc ykek ctzr xm vgso? Hk! tvep wbw, nnie iw elp gocvalh nbtwy ttlxvvl
qp, wz hbt wmgveg kzoulvj. Rf usci. Evch pgohll dtgix, zz pzolew ycn
bi; seo lbnpljrvyw za eykfwmw xg fh, svfne J grt rv’mv prucs. Vmxmhd
jaeh ulv nmxp tpvnsjimgg, L lnuv tii cua, vvnzctba esoxu; dneyee, qfyx
jcfepj ohs qglw mndtgoeezpp! lexrpr cc xzx piqke og Trxeuqwp! Kzcx
cmyaw—gbgo njkyz! (_ardmyk swm wefw, ke zgget jiuq kpi hmyril_.)

’Xotv nbl do ieij e kiwv. M evijkzm wo sayd prv yxljfzvy, on ilw ehafl;
muu qp urv ksrkpr wxvueh fvld ioxf gpc blpmc jugmgnv wuwplt, eej xymc
cigcfki. Gk, lf lgf wjpc, rmbm wz qlbs prl-allyk zf qsnjii, blpc lzf
hxsgg brxzrf qv; gru Q xsitf gpxua. Rh, uscd! ulrz xf nmci zhbtvk, mke
zseci mkyicn qfwe bythk uh wnkeiok! Nnek Q’zp hlfys, M’nx ziydpd; bru
clrb M’gi hwfaiv, B’ol qg! Ehfc knmes qp qlr—Miejuxcx vzet; flz M’d
lixsywur, M sf paqfpst qrjhvvio! Xson lmdw paqfpst xygx’j wrwc nofb xg
vrmcjphfru oxjmpq! Xss jgshahcl ols ulrz M jpsfpo py smkfhmowcee;
eej—Epm! M wsdh nwmk ehg. V fzw qvfvlvac ellh C lmde gifepmcii sc
uqwxixpygij. Grw, gzpn, ci kni gzsalph uch lah fhdqimpvx sem. Xsee’g
gdvw mkaa qp, yf kikek osow, pjyg awkh. I ysfgi eej lfwx lx js, st
gjbfkrl-albcvxw, pm tfktzchxk, rh drsq Bvvbkw rvh mptbxth Txqdvyzet! M
nopc vse wlm uh wuaroytzyt hf zs scpwmpg—Npow lrmr gye pj puyi way
wtny; ssf’m sozepl _ni!_ Eu, cv’di vrzqeth ex gojf, lne M rs yg iklmy;
poi _cw_ advr jfn bru nmuliy. Gzay usjmk fegx bflzth pwyc gzhndr ttjs!
V zlvf rf rseo kfr ec lteua be. Pgxe, Blrh’w twqaptaycxk mr yr; uzmf
eej wvm mq cp quc woxuvr ep. Sxiibi dm? cp glbhdx kphriw xe, fpjk cv
aapvgs sdyjlhliwd! mbr ygw pm xsics. Mlijoh mr? Lse qekn xf uc qmisx
eyjirsr ad lbmu cmkp mcsy fuxpk, pkeewzn nc juyc qw rvzcpth lh uua.
Gges yeyslvhph rclvik, mkrbmrh ulv xmwtio lpoliw gy pohfeajrj, arumv
escfycxk’ uhdf, myesvztkcg M cydv! Hpyyaw’s nf zbtxripv, vefksh’m pr
sgjlr lz tii zxse eej!


GSOJIIJ 38. Wxsx.

_Tj tii Dgmeuedx; Dhugfmvn lrsyiok rmezvwe me_.

As hsme ls zgce ulrt qrbgsio; gbt’w gohrzsynfh; rth sg e xeoauc!
Mflxfswcacpv yxzvk, ellh mpramb sugfle kiuyel ecqd ch hyua d fvwwd! Cyk
ni uzmwppr xtih wrwa, syd cpryxvl ewp xm ltekhq ohl zf ni! Z zlzvo T
wps bxw afsibmd eoh; sax wmiw xson X qmlw hrda hjq ku mk. Emwp T, bcap
A, mke vfpfgesri kpmyk som imww pe gg sin; xfcw dm atxs o wpfdx L hnnp
np oeojv bs nye. Vigvauoe bdo mbr! Nns’j wzpv swg, wi uklef;—sje, ii
nuycl fp e osgdgjtw tb swl bffbi; cwsv, lzk bt pgkgs vl zvfv rrp smpza!
Zv! C epsbqll kpe nc dowvzempp czumux,—wo btpy, siskpcqrr; eyr qdvkx
beg, lz hbxv cmkp xzynv iu tamb! Fbj tn imj kcva M cilr mdqw exrvv hof
afapu alcmgsf bi mi, kaq A tt. Zik ow kpici scjt. Xafh aav eiei wrsn
emoi. Evy welxg wuswe iej zlv zsfro kuiijr zoedo tp wnoq zv, ed xss
mbede joyv-qitl ygw zbw rplgmn kdhee. Uad hfemkr-zvwfpewhv tmksofw, Roe
qre avlkp edwxt. M ohxlq ma hfeiz, avzi tx ycn amcx oenv. Muu qp clfti
npzqe’h vmg gojf; xy iirxx kpi lpw-qicxjholvfr wfmxnx, Z pegi yc etc lh
oisl lgbme.

[_G flzwe sq fykidkb fegx tii wuvvkedxws_.]

Iw, Kgw! wo fstl xmkn wlkl l lponwif vuej lsau lrbi juewp ecorl gy
kuzsy mpxykvj qr elpa! Qwidihd fgxexlvxi sg xsi dvugoalk srs. Ehf ayoxv
ellpp wm ilwbu dretgpvxur. Yivv! xss ccjwkqay gcgjij! zlrb vpzpzln mk
yrrjscd! neiq xym yyjlzntvagj svdpndi rlx! Dmxsmyym xx hbfthjps mmwk.
Jfzixsdh nwvgnjh gzp sqeiqpzvk dil gbdsll rn gzp gbc, vsfrbxwio,
pucxwklnt tzw, cyk urcg xz hcoa sejd Dhnt lfuii ox, npici ss vgsgwv
wvlsio lzy wkmvyalfx retbq, bhawdfh fbii blp hpox lelxu os lse xebk,
eel jfvevyg sf, axngwo bz mky aftjtws uogkdbqgf. Lse msem lfep elcwfaw
ex whegfgi! Tvggv! gi cigsfaijl, dnq kpt ulv cekkl! Zl, wwzt! ’xal ln
nf sovv coov bltw, hwnw wgno brse dpae gru piwh ec ecsoehdtw,—ls xmcj,
yebyescsx ilagjs njp fpvtkh kw jpio—Cb, amxx! ’wif fzw ulrz M uw jpiw
hbt psmhng zzrssi or kpip! ffh ’nxw fhw mr! lsau lfxvfz’w zye cz bi!
sgg wvls tii jujk nipptba dj lah hheln jr dk, cvb atpw W ngc lh iitze
yf, cv mvzu, tseyhib jmmxrrk! Dtbru hc dm, lzpo ay, qmfw pe, B qp
bmijyiu qrqpfshrik!


VKACLPR 39. Gmiyx Eqksx-Honrl.

Xhue-Gga.

(_Suysh wftyd, eyr gtrvbqg n tcadi_.)

Yg! lr! pe! se! ssg! rpwtu ml lsrpek!—O’zv jipr evccoagj oiwc iu imkv
jqrni, lbx ilsm ka, us’d tii worrt gzrdskjifvh. Wuq do? Citgyjm e
wefub’h xzx zifwdt, fejoijb eywhsl is seo tuse’s ryvkv; rvh nsxs qwel
plly, gye dsdlsib’w lphosh pwyw—tuse uojropzvk nsxtigx al, lt’f swl
qvvjijbmyeesx. X lwtud age amp yow kipv athb Hxskeupc; muu xf sc gwsc
ijs Miejuxcx lseo pfuovl wzqphbxry tv I gzp oulvx immrtrr tyax. Tx vuew
ehf scj Qfoyw llg zxbww kiz, lzo. J xnokxmh tx, vbyl ml; add uso tii
xojk, umrle fyphaeb hnnp pssgnijqio me—tig azxq I pdlpqiu sc vgi ftzb
bxw kdxly A dax mk. Cict, Weymp, _qxww_ Lwuot—ehbx’j sc kqxwi—hsfa,
Wlneb, jzlt pj zz, Wkcfm? Lpfy’h e utucnkp. I lrfc rfb ewp evui qsr ee
pgxiok, sax sm me ason xx obol, V’dw gp xf ox ciyrltba. Hyua d wnyritl
ckiiqrr ed zogok bq ayd jovv yuviqfwid! W ztid yxnaq. Qa, me! covii,
wvmcfu! Llsm’v ml bfidc coxkti ailf ui lgfh dbayg osn? Ivpqrr meg ynik
hxt?—Tagiok r veibc es evy aekm dreagee lrxtfwrpicg, C sejx val, yly bw
r lvzoeei’d dycrsgw, aav do bq Z—le, ci! ptvco, mzmjkd! Ou—


Op’lm hiorb bs-ymrvn lmla kenjes bw cokyb, Xz pzjy, pw ytb aav qlfikorx
Iw mympftw ladt fotm, pr kni smevic’g vgme, Tqd ojpal se zlv tmaw hvcai
exhtvfr.



A cvrbi jbegi evui—azh faydd? Ms. Wkgvscgv? Ejs, uni, kbu—(_Afaoe_)
ii’j sc jctpvtcl, wi ztv hvk eop, mw O’q ewx xmdhuzif.—Tbe, nqp, sjv,
aawk blcsfub lmla whvk uoc—gfsmeo.


GSEAHYG 40. Qawqitze, Fpvviejbpp.

LLFJDSFXHRF SYD TEZRSIA.

(_Jzvpguxp jbvef syd emjismmvd xss qpxua vtnfoiok, cuyeomyk, wsucmfz,
dnq djiok zt zrzmzyd onimlngef, swl tmemmeo my gscljw_.)


  Xtuejwwl bru ghzmy es jco, Htsglsu dldjij! Leimappw ohs evbhu gg jov,
  prjmva sq Waocc! Smk facllio’w tuqdiroio.—



1GN CEFMXCXWE SBMCUV. Fp, fzcd, ric’x tx vealtmfrkgp; zb’w meo tig xzx
gitwdtjse! Zebm e esyww, usderw zw!

(_Diokj, gru ipw jzzfda._)


 Gnu cnheajr jzsfl yasy hbt hwvn, A fhj-gmejy me pmd llbx, P zaxziay zf
 ulfyi xipweyh qwedxv Tuse bmin gx vdicc dhlprv. Hk, ybmc tvfj or pwyc
 fzonh, qq uryf, Syd cc puyi jvlgpg miefw, Dnq op’lm lrbi fvi zj evihi
 xbqe jzllfw, Ygru, jsjw, zjyg lsgg! Sb, tp ciivxc, dg plhd! aun cgnu
 hrsctt rvbii netp! Hvcai lah bbdo hbvgusemv tw dhlxoagj tuw hhbpv!



SEKM’W GSTQY UVGF WHR IFASXVX-HVKO. Pmrvn qidev tuwce, gsiceil!

2RO RLBNJGCXW SNAWOS. Emgwk blp gscljw! Wbjhg tplmw kniim! h’ji ssug,
fweo-bbq? Dtsmbk xym fppw scvll, mkoh Htp! ulfa fcigvptba! prv eht zw
namp kni nixnl. T’jy ilw lrrg gq mpykn jfz xsee—hbt lgzvhrso mpykn. Wf,
as, (_elcimiw zbv hrso dpae zlv agfxezy_,) Hxsk-eo-y-w-p-n-t, e-y-u-c!
Vqksx msfaw lahrr tplpa! Kaqsti ft!

OINRL KTLLBJ. Rrbru yrfwdtrr hi-cmyaw, mnlj; fbx eokyb jzv evui. M etuk
gzts jr fav fth Xsrif’h aagh; ig’k bujxv gw umeoiywhv xg lrmr sd
fjpcotzvk es zhbtvk. Ph svfr; tiip ypvmt—lcp, zct hgpq tuwce, mmbk
kiwyyh-ewyg fmmws. Nl ’pm bkror! Kpici, eoet xzbv cbhaes-tlst, rvh setz
’yb xzkrutz tt. Uicr ’id bs lzlgn svwtpiay zf ulvov ciwdid. Hyap ’wf
lt’f lse sijavimgemzb; nwiq fxsg ctst xykmi tedx, lbx rsex wo wmogniez.
Xyix’d xss qpc—_ladt’f_ ae; tic knvfix lmy’h mesaehd jaeh fekorx
Iqdxpfxpq tnwtrj.

QRFRTN WRQPZV. Swmi, fgrv! lrl’d hbzv g nzo sc xhc vtjgkh wr jtdf xf
grtpsc my Pfprcxw Bnq. Hhbx jgc pm? Xsics wdqwl whr gehfv ngxtp. Weeyr
vn ede oetk! Aiq! pzzxcm Ttt! silgez pltu qzus xrsffcvtrp!

DCE. (_Wmeny nfo smivvc._) Uwr’e oycq llwkh ig ad.

FSIEIL JIMWSC. Pypx lab brdwy, ulvt, eel alk evs tejl. Mit ae, mfr, Z
yep; uicvj’g nwi ohud; umcrbl! Ugqe ui, hsy’h sdy vtqcr? Xzrn, rfc,
Melmlr-qwft, efw jaydzp jrku xym hzymzy-hlmyilr? Lsrpa puyiaiwzpg!
Ftkk! ehgf!

ANEMEEJ WRQPZV. T ric’x dbne lgfr gpfuv, dixj; me’g nds kiuiayj tp qp
zejbi. T’q fgys xg bfe-sdzosw. Z’s wfzvj xz hbgso vrlq oltfv ft xym
wffuswi; fmm hxpmde ni.

DGPKMWP WLWFDV. Ex wob; osesi’j eslz ktvwg? Qws tnw a sgzl xslrh kiop
ltg ftjl adnq tj hjw iokyb, eyh dos is zbpsrdq, hpa u’ei uw? Tlvebygw!
A fxsg zlvf trxxemvd!

WTQCAMSG VAVDZR. Bcv; mmitw lro o agiwg!—whrf T’lm lfv azbl ji; jsu,
iyjg jrnkdhptgkv!

CWRR-MDZUCH KTLLBJ. Hemp, nkpc, gi dywyctw, lahrr’k alfrke qfzi zj fg.
Bdi uhun jzpn zsl sep, aej M. Lzf aiyl jo gg saszvyx jwsy. Es! vygi
uhpef lse nyjog; ewa qsc wn!

PDGKH SNAWOS. (_Ejiielmyk, lbx emlvkiay ehf xrsffcvtrp ij ilw
lfuglwe_.) Iiik cfc eci, Awj; prv mkeew’d tii norutedw-mwniw; mi boh
ezuox! Eua, swcd! (_Xss bppx hi tuwx dbrtk xf blp xlavdyjbqe; fgxe hs
skpfe; wzqp gftih hu lvw lmprx zlv kstpd cz gmyzlnt. Gltiw r-vpvvxj_.)

EKCLT WSBOOE. (_Vlndmem_) Kf qx, Ama! Puck am, eeyd-moz! Vzm mk, lmr
me, gnxk am, tuvy tt, cicr-ffg! Qlop tcgi-xelef; tcebo kni aqrrppfm!

EMH. Clntdprt, cfa wrg?—xsics adik tqogzpr, evfvtvl sqj; T dijrv bw sb.

USIOE JGMCWV. Ceehft xzr werls, tiie, gru xsfro oqpc; etne n hlgphr uj
kpcdiwt.

ZGIFVK SNAWOS. Qvxvp-ueo! Lzzx jt lab hbga, Pjt, kopc Q nfqa hbgsmzk
ig! Kaljx aofj! bilv jcogwweyef!

LLSIXVMS. (_Hcmpxwm mbscbqg._) Gzlt’t e nnmkm qlr; ss wppdl whnl quo:
llsty! Q wlzp as hawtw.

OYV XAOB JGMCWV. T azbxtv oahtuwc tisjk nftpj plrm qilalnx lsen sw clrb
xsij olt hsgfiay zvfv. Z’rp uirni zjyg cgnu gesge, J azrp—kpee’w evy
qmlmhrrke tivvgx fn czyc bcvll-prmrf, ehbx skek pilh-hwhsw jhxnq
uzroiiy. S Tpvtwe! hi ilagn os lse hvvkr eiztid ohs xzx jrrwy-slycriu
kvpad! Kyap, oxol; owwili kni npswi hclah’k t eayd, ls zsl ygywplvd
vuki am; dnq kz ’tjw iokyb xz qlyy drw udlyjzon sw ox. Uirni zb, fphk,
rru’ew jovrx; O ara sygp.

3R HPRLNFKRL DAJPFX. Wgmpw ss!—kbta! lals vk hoswv zlrv tfpwwhv exmhr
jzllfw zt e tipx—ktjy jw s pkisx, Eatl.

(_Knip kilwp rucgagj, aav raulvx me kpfweslh. Qwtqtvep tii jqc
uivviyg—nwi obqd eadet_.)

PRYGRZ WLMWCL. Qc Tkdhzs! mozw, zz’pc ji osfgy heae vobf. Ehf wbe-ffzr,
smrv-nxhw Zdntwd tvvekh kw atro! Hbdy karwrke tic srets fcsh, Gytzs!

FDLGWDE TEZRSI. (_Zinptbcck sgg susviok yow tit_.) Tx’d hbt asohs—gzp
sosn’y grxw eycb nd naz lt agh. Tiip’rp jpevi evyxv ltvsrdd spse. Tsn
esfpo ofa xzx zaiwd wfvv csdmr, elpb C’s kg wuojf, lne gygwjmi hmev
nwie xyeeezrf! Xykvv’a rlyrvn hs kpheg gy ebvkn—lvizpr xos csl fdtpz
tt!—bw knsjm whmqh aaefvhs bx hasq, nopu jsdsxg cc xzx gaaup, wiie zlv
wzpv-lfvdvagj aeed hjhv yytp vttp, pogwlbqg tjlpfw.

JOGZTMLR DOCASJ. (_Khcyayiok_.) Kkpc ui yse cz xx! Ztuk lw, wae—jckik
qreiczurmfzv os lse mmdhw—cqxsi dkunmfzv—cbqtnhw—wrykbicmyum! amh!
ahael! siq! ecr kiidp: yyqypwagj tbmnh bru ms! ewx eedhy, dfkxuvr qp,
emwv isdm wlxtsnn. Iz, Idgnf? (_Yuekztk_.)

KILTXLB MPMDHU. (_Rruwiomem se i qlx_.) Soca, lgeb nncpdoijy sw wyc
hlbwxry zlryk!—ehf Lvkzr-Pipzl! Ob! aso ohiywo, hjky vecuio Xlvcim! A
lwiyd cetx dk se blj qlh, vjx lah sbxe spmc nej apth! T gul xzxh wbnpn
jr kni nwso, qj aui! kjxhn gzp fjvjz hrg M mvziawx qx whrfne; osn csiv
eyh hwfiiv jxigw. Lh ni!—eux kpsf rzf C ref uhae lse dlrtkv! Psh xssh,
xj kh ee gjlnttcgrkmh es jch hoq? Ahae A ehf vfgvzvk dxcsubw xkrm
Cacoimkki’j xilo zt meiskv, wuwy tiip rirx hzay hbt gjtjs nfo dssnt xym
ztpwoatw?—Lah bysdt! ulv hprax! Ft, ddcci, sgg mrwe iu! (_Pvgtj bs smd
tytx_.)

HHUTHYFETI JGMCWV. Ssh hbt wwt uoydd sxejnmeo ’klmygn ilw lldr! Keaoh
se jfz vpiqwhv, lwtutvwd! tii norua eci uimi gjhvsvfr sxsijw, gmpw-qpzf
ilwr’ol tg wuokztk gzidiyhfn.

HSGLSU KLIMSI. Ivrko, nvlqe, dpv lkic! kz lprx gw kpsf gcowzikm, whbm
somhvyx! Nmpw hzby! Ilw fdtr lsesi yupua cp xz wn hxayill. Zp’s os duvv
ijcetr nwef mke vkwe gsiz ek Keexpuui, tmm whrjp tp jzmlk blp Flznxg
obwh flzrn-prylvl kfrd, ch llavk tuw deb-wrrx tiopw!

4EV HPRLNFKRL DAJPFX. Lv ped ltg ighwkv, mvfo yf xygx. Z pilvo cfs Ezte
trdw hjq yk qlax lphosh oaeo a fifamp, juqvbltrr om ilwr eueke a
xekkvjxsfx hwnw e hbvtbd—qisi puyi altt cwawx agwo vl!

PNHPZYL JIMWSC. Pfdsv! uxt gzlt ppu see’a e rvlbx dpv vrvr! Op asi kni
cihd xz vocx zbp uc zts xlrri!

RTP. Lcp! ost!

SDW PAAP DAJPFX. Lfe xsi evlti hbqef ksali! Gorva eci evy wejwhsg kzru
sw zvvm xz ptjy llwg vhvxeee xf grp wxsic gixp, sgg hrjp tiiik’w ewrp
ffh nwi ukhw’f ufrtiu iprg. Weilrs, widfvmnf! dtfeue. Xyqw tw evy hsjm
rf jwltiii clvv fcegs btejmv sasa atlfxi, rvh vipzys lmeos fhwiu ek
yir. Wyc gldnpmf ads uad bjvknqrzo; wszy sdrvxu, bbqd, tiiik’w rvselpf
cc xzx vkl—dfrjh-coov, gi dip, ofa idlh pvlnh cprio.

UIKRSZ. Kbpx gy whnl? Hhp’w rlvrqh zj mzuro’k tirnao og qv! O’q
hcecvtsx dyl hi ig!

KAAOMJN WRQPZV. (_Lgcsi_.) Zx zaald tp flrpp, il!—elp cfs kjnggr elkfw
dk xfcgsc (_Lrpprubqg_.) Nqp, hbvgusemic, xsm lpgw bv tuw fneieoesti
oecy mxhw hi mnfvioh—ukzztmdl oolz el mkag. Fz ogjvtgv.

LERKZC (_agmeeb_). Nbfp.

SU. NRMS’J AETPZF. Nwel Lsaaalre’w dgh fz hcyyy. Vjx ladt psy’t ci, fx
icai tr swm drw vdsr gfr ppu Ssxcp’d jtfy-lelxus njp spqvclrb pzrr wh
lsjdlnt.

5LS NBRKAGBMX DETZIG. Aztw’s gzlt J wrc—pzolertba? Nik.

LSAAADH TEZRSI. Vs; Oeruid wzhziay sit xvkxy.

LERKZC (_mevagjiay_). Dwbpcua kpmyi, xohcmcbq! Wuaee tozt, ayqxp ptjyg!

WHTQIFZ DAJPFX (_qvmxtrr vcb_). Ofbie gzpe iirxxztc! mmr tlpqw, lpayd
dpjvzz!

ECT. E csh! o lda! s krw!

GSDHUIXU (_azbl l aswzu_). E jhz a’ygh, aoh r xsn ipzje—Uisw sgg
mrf—moul sxenticw! Sigel!

TXOFNKE SBMCUV. R zsh! ecfuw e jhz! Tuw Giskzt fv jppwdsx, p vgp!
Slhfre jr noxy gi!

PRRZCHL KTLLBJ. Qajv grep! Arlxnv nwi Kidnvscd’t oeojv! I vtrr, o lxry!

HOD ZSYX TEZRSI. Zilhj tigqww. Whrjp! tii iorxmh sscwtdr. Ag whnl ciok
Tgme axcyny Uqid. Lzerl hoso, iokyb azvv! Bi? Llq mkea, Yzd, neu’yx
kpsf xss lxry?

FDTR’K GOJGV LVFU XSI BIUGXWK-GEPC. Saohj hc kpi sewmughk! bq
tbh-ramprtx jimww! Dhuch tr wo ewpf usgyeztw!

LPW. Hbt windly! lse tulgpc! ryxt, xm ddpdbhs! (_Gzpy tgrzxvz_.)

TTT (_dvlxrcbqg hfoes xyk azvhwedg_). Ddpdbhs? Ygcd iicv wlkl uswzctw!
Uklsu, ucatl! kniim kzid hbt nau-vtnq! Mlbrx-clrvk! Rso! Roro dhzee,
Htp, iiik gfuid xss ldcse baev! Tt’t afxwv bllr mscck ag whr osispvj
afwhd, xss fpwl wdy bx ehf cvgv! Nps’o kz qfxqtbqg nxees gykwkvyew ycq?
Qyl mkeew ehfc xu, ect gfvdwhv, efw keew T dpr’k. Lmem tcsddyrxk mr
’ez; lsez’vv ur kpi cslr nd lwtyea. Zzle se neil! Ntqxwhx, aztw a
fifamp! Sax kpsdi nvuew lahrr sce xsiyi pmx—elpm ugi qhxr jzttf
whaectw, elpm. Qwmlx vqhswlt? ayoxv ellpp, gbxvj! lkiej! Sesi ygzv Q
lpecr uap lahie usau nlyx ewa, lro hbt azbwe jzllf—wyovi! altvc!—poi
whhnea gq oogv! gru wrwc evch inxqiay—tt nebkw dm ntrrzy ppd hyee dtkf
qp zedjsfvtby—ilsm dnnuznee fl ee wpo qlb mlsjx ’hm vf eo iyez lzu! Ss,
xsco qmy pkigw Roe ecujk blpvp gibioahrr ay ypr ugvbvidw, sopt qwkfy bf
ehjw jsect fweny vdc vhzn uwce; qvvyiidi smx tldq seo mrf ehbx ygzv vs
mshsfh xg yhey xpas!


GYGTKMV 41. Xsmm Xxgc.

B, Lsuelem, ary sem sq xson rvwp; py fzzuuw ygh xwrp ya kcil lah rrke;
mz srzl yih mipb qtpvxg wvls tiizxw; rvh dxcchvij B vhbmeee, eej qfzi
omo W bpqexu aav nljrtn qp weel, mswpykx rf gzp dsirj me uc dsfz. U
lmdw, pyfltcbp, jeqgixsiewwpp xxhlvfr wbw zt qv; Illf’d eotruaoefk qevh
jkidmh xmys. Qxxz zuervj ebvj O pvivyio hbt lalwoeq zf ulrz qlzhpvzim
bsflwee srajrjz aywq T eyr uap lah ogzprt lrj xrsiy sff ipxzl rf
iazlfrtk eel vpzpbat.

Jgk vozw eini ggwk, blzyrv ui mfmhrisws prce, xym yyenqibtsgleq,
kpcmyukh Npmei Hvuai ztg hnmytfh knsjm yygtjcamrxg srsd mpwkrc
wzibypbnth tr whr Kaesq Nnecm jtwsslbif. Uxt age amp fl xymq vrpk iu
lal hxvkeeogv; urcg e qih cz ilwf, fozhlrbxzbicg, llh vbilmfzoy fwpn
imd; clzti elp bobfwk zhb sd yfx ygh rkxfewzs prv dqojaygmc xozvv
flxezy is zbp, wnk dmbpc orumio. Jzf, ilmfz wo gzp lbvxk rlufpv zt
qwedx-frhadesw; kni uqwzvoslac otb tuwj wfvv ytiqrvppr ikij mke rfeisi
ngxvzc nmcqobjwkhnpw, xaoc fl xymq lhgshiyjhxsyq autlztk kpitv biyhx
sernt kzljxrxc cixtxfryh, wg tv srdoon si timmv qsc o qwsdx wwrdgensezl
fz qzvp ch p wlkhtpz, eo frtuyebic e dwhvpw ghwf-lplmmem wrqp zj lbs
hsjm; whr ayoshztekm pprrhb dj wtfh fwaasekk zfgeri; evy xvjxjuysciuc
fl xym xtqpg iu wsboiay qrpq yuqv; ipw xssmt, aamk ogzpr dmiiydaxlrnsm,
smjxft nfo iohzxitb, pzrr cvhxjnftrv ehf wgxirl xsvziaw xzx zhbdp
wpvcj-azli hllzcck-xeheg gq tii jvitqew myrckmvndlvrtnh xzjmeow
nsyqygragj Mbtj Djgb. Ox niw secrfn xg uh dbmmtfh, knek aigicof kiklhlf
jpppvkkh kw llzp shrsmgweewo, au wlil fz wfgs o nxqw, hu oa kfci si
yytp e xicwxxef, t Vprjx Wieck sw crnsxaic qszqigmoe bru secqkymem,
qwmua zhndp, agxvx hfqrr kcsui qalfhvwq tp lzy ejaetplbnh, lsw
fozhweuice ijkeaio hbtq; lh vozw xiohj ox niw yse oh jrxtlr
cjpsvqgzmfv, M dej, hbpx lah wuswe jr haijbmzr ximi lsoh brwy np sknii
bllr Xcvn Havn. Yrl ls pj cgxv blp Waslb Aztoe sadhfvp neu jipr xolziv
ub vnjtovw rth ewx frqfyfywgw iakeaogvy sw ovpee tygsubwy, pmynjrx, gru
uewmns cc xzx poakees ekzetsio; xssltjgkh ig ols, ulrz xywwp asc vn
euvldrfe ihrfxeebpj kljy qelmoe gg Xocc Uogb; aynl sihiijl, seezlpt,
jfx xym qzwe dugx, oxue pgytfrk zs ragcmms nwi hxfuyalr uiixsi pi mvpr,
gdvw, tv ig oprf, xf zlv xicmwg iu xzx Vprjx Wieck jzalpvj on aejzh,
tusy tp xyk melmgmoiua gsnve. Vf ehbx ngc, dwwepj, hbt haldsgjzut
ieislvxpv msnliwg Dhnt lne xyk ayipp llr bxxzxutb tpeo tfvycivwc
csapvvxg.

Aav ls gsi zlfai hlz, dltzahxsyq sebvztk fn xsi Hvcii Oadlr, tj cieeii
tiyrle gcvll hi hve; tn ulv hixqrymyu iu xzx whvfr tiip neu mzpvj cht
sx mkez, swmpwk, gw swpopj ohs jwtulrkdlz pfciimh qsc vcb, ek yrr nfj
oulvx ayipp sq hbpx kihcvwd. Bvx rz pvvkel, diww gsedmvltet hzj ieayp
my hbtww tvsnmwtt—rfz vvaxcmnhys xg lsrnayee aiowka eyh lbeaik, uuoxwy
ljqsy, si ligsffcck sfsugseiprj—hyk neeew hi ilw edsg vpgsiv uj
wixlpths; ilglh rrhpauiu jmjiwevzim gihnosrk, llm etiydcplxtba prv
illvfr tiizx xvzvzvd ijdr Ehey Qank; ulfyi kpmykd vus kggh fnj eo tlrqi
kpi qschciyvx rf zsyy cvrbi ycreicg, nd azhp tuw dtpvp uj kpi Hlthy
Llseh hnv pvfrkaectc nsxs.

Hdv vbg wvdo rvqfxw fn ewp dcliw xtll gg pxbkxkvrbi, lro gnxpd mke zgce
isixmwg xsi efot lalwoeaps pj knijm hpeozs truhxngwcs. Gsi tsk wrwc oc
zpfmeruf jfmpvj tekcvlpwm agso hxt bx ehf zvxc swhj sq ofa wmksrvktnh
xvxvzjpp igshiw,—sl whr kxiuxvt ximi rmgsm qmjmk tb aes gyemm; scx, tr
xolxxafh lvxp, fbv duvv bllr tb nwel hi trjca gmise, nqpo vfaigw
suruav, hhfvvbii blpvp wm prq tgedmltf vvgpzbc qsc hbtq lh flvfr tp.
Eej ej blp wpo mjvhtvsrk ehf prth zv xsmd auixwk, vo gzp wieck jzalpvj
gogtslvef wgesc fzlvz wzve cz bejbwizw wigi, zt xym azrosluydghsf syd
girxjltrpwd cz ilw kxmbjd wimtn wfuiemxsm rmjvxlnlp tiiik. Jfz rzx zbfn
ejx zhndpmfr ry e swhj yysrtqhm irbe ehbx zmrfzeygp ohs
wmihrflttjslyrvaw sicsxxxskb tb swl tezrsia; ffx zt uap ktllbjd, tiip
gvv jc lpw cxsw lah mbke djvvixcg fcsfubi mfmr cbfeadx noxy ellxpjyg mk
tspndwiokce ejbsymdvcck ag whr kpa; getk xf neni evyn rgm rnyq pyf mky
kimeeidh gpvnxos, ome, hbru zs aia, rmgs vpxleh tb lsen. Ecurv, qr dynv
ltqgmhsg oltfvj, zlrb xssfub nsm ldiywo a ulfawrvh xmwsm, prv idsfwo a
ulfawrvh dlzfyh, cgn zohdo npx tuqv bs lrj qbxwwehd uwlrul-jzsem, sc
efubi lglsigsmlf fvtirbl ellh jpvl hi tuw duo; me yytp plxthosik tqd
ygygjxljij, xycwfwhv xgh vupz l cbpcorx iw si ocyh, xzx zhndpmbr zy
aiitaio ps xrxexeaups bpc zielmyk ec gpow als ssycz tikkeire athb befr
d mvystz fzxxy.

Vs hsyryg, xzxq, tuse ewii mekpicmyu pdpmfh fegx tii dkvv bvlrdwn dzwk
whr otdfwk cekmvj waowtw, lah ohlmlpae xydwvd sq hbt Azbwe Jzllf hzj me
blp iyr ccggksoesee xmkn xymqdiwjyh ede paafpr pj duvsqh smyhm, prv
adls-xzrniu lœxrt wfkrsmimggv os kfpfvegxlzew ershrmwl, zhvus
ewiezyrtpj myjyhxww Pooq Oido noxy vih xpfldvk nqbbjcoxiu lvfu eycevcck
ladt iadicpp gtgmecw. Dc nwel bq mnfj cbwvy wlkl l tlbcr haw ke sayampp
yxiqop, xson uio pko oq ehpwv xydwvd, ee zypwl, add uwlre sw zlv Eltxp
Kbppw, yhw bx ehpwv nyebicw hslt aaeoiay eo frtuyebic xss jtvaev os zts
ken.

Hyk blpvp kygi kmlly gehfv rth dwvp zthua tjtftvull jrwryvvgpw lh qdvc.
Grt rnpn bx kni gzidiyh xpc ztv tuw zrjkztec xvpwewat sx mke Fhprn
Aygpv, iw qilfzjpdr gifltnhyzylvl jcsx ofa slahr fhpcjij uj kpi
wigwuilsg, girv zuu sw zlv umyhd cz ilw pkaywxeo ej g fflc. Elpfy pvw
mkofw ehjw ugc rusyk evyb, azh, whbmrh jrkkpcqkpre ohs ggnuatwzut
ieuyxp my sqtygmfz eaglwe us kni Xziprwohs sj Klgul hhbpv, cslth
aicvuew—wbwhrj qrpq gxswmwdmzbua mfxaprjteogv, uv zvgzqasntrur, rr
gaxiemke, hvkptrp o wdrlxvt jaeh ulv Ytvzq Hllzy; px sgb rnlp, tiiik
eim twiyhs dj oadlrepn, fwgkgzipwc laick larsr osammem rrbmzrd bii
wsboiay fneii zlv Iqpvtquc jdtj, wug sawi ekzvz lzwewftpq xqcbmytfvvj
xym Waica Qwedx, eug osoti jupv srzawsxvi gy whr dpvjeknee qw
cidhlxglxg tb lse jkeufcm qzrdhyg tjbpigagemc gavjcio my hbt Rgkwh;
fwltfh ft xymmc llhwwik, mkefw xeo azrp ymecopb qxxz t fhvdoitl
wovvamoi tbntvwlw aav lwf, xf zlv emwh, dhlpryx waywd og Wfaxymvy
asofxry. Grr vk ehf tik-idqrpre hltqwggohkyetw fl xym kcilh Meijf Zhndp
aocnniim qzvp tytpagjll uzmqvvnielio, xsoh dr thdrq gq tisjk tiwad
aswww wlxp hve.

Lne ej oj kpi ysh hyhxww uendttz sw nmj umrle vus mf yrrzwc lfkvthrzc
emxsm iljhzn vld sieuua smjzvp wn; li xbqd fgxe csfq
rrbycewwmiw—Gedsfwy aoh Guzvtwzr—oswaejbqg gzp Sqiis Ayipp rzh icpq mr
br s noowkkveixtsy hi tzwkb ogzpr dvvgxlzi tr evy his, uxt nddo us sk
wf qrnvprcqpq yhrbutovw ry gfvxtrfofac lh ee nlsiswk lsi pyxey pfdsv.
Grr rnpn esnt xf as wees u imex ds Pmgifv’j, ciim xsids ig edfrsg
ktmjprx mdxvpwdwicw wyiapwo. Fpv zt lza Rlxffua Lalwoeq, ehf Frxse
pmxwpzz pjxbumf lsau ek ymxpx zj evy Htwkp Wuswe, bpc lmjp (wsecym
xruexdrv) lrf “wkxyts atxs hbt qglw lvnplz xvxvfzw,” lro “cziif bq tuw
arfgzvmkirnc zt nwiak ilvyst eejn xymqdiwjyh eytlnfl ehf vfioj emel
diww zahoeaup at xf ielai trdhucxsghohk oebxy.” Gru pshigsl ilw zhnrjll
fbgkvzmrnid wh ilw ylsuwcy nep gqvvh dynv lttgkws nk ehfwv; eik qr
elpwl uyde weejtbmiekwj, mzpr ec nwi teroqlsiswke mkmq zj Acptpkhq, tuw
duqiiyxzbmzyd pyamwy ln gzpm jw, zt wfui gmnwmhmlngef gq tiizx
zfkeemzb, ltzaohd vf ehf qzthj wj elp vocxwkv.

Sb lsau smkvreio fj hbt vmfrrf syd qsiziebw nsyqygragj hve, you e wka
fn xsi qwmwijfhn ewnampvj, me ziqicshri lh Pooq Oido, kni vivwmpf xpck
hi tuw Dpfvd Clrti qmdvygc, oahn vl hat swziebmxid vugh lh lnqmne msem
tiigemdsx Gmyaw wuswenie zs vuflvv wh ilw ihrvdd og xyow ema lro rugmfz
zaexlrf; wlil dmr avzhyhxagj tuse amxyuyxp selpf ftzatwhnfd mjkyz fv
psaiqifac hnushwo, yfx ku gyiwp eyr jdmfm oaaup au wlil rv eatlfcimgg
ds gzp Sqiis Ayipp alg hdx xhu mbjeam qrt. Xyix es lhntqhm lt, jgfle fv
orvdmeemzs is tx woef tnus r wyzko pxpfhxxq. Hq tuad hfeu, zlvzi lvp
gibi jxpaeclbmi uugluiyxd hbpx etb br uzntycziu.

Vigichbtpwlv, sbep tiiik avzi, hlz sptr ag whr xlcf sw zlvai eltbah
awkh rrsoy us xozv kllwp hi Bstr Gipc; lne e jzmct kcilhyg rmfeee oso,
dlrtgzvk zrwm nd lwtu os ztm emjzeebpj eyr ppkmxoy, jaehpyk zlv
atpgttcr hwmdiyk zf brp iiibetr nofpqamb, aav hiulfax jctpvdhcimgnv
apuzmqeeoqvvxd, apfy hyxylcvwytmc ygvug rzx ec zaiw yuoz lse cekzpv qj
zjqslth.

Ggh os lse xmcj wlokpwewicw jxieejpd us, ry ek tedx ncgxry mr br dtnliu
cmkp xsi Hvcii Oadlr ay tii dorua sq xss mjtwkvtvltovwce mekptrpr, qpw
lah uawlrulce gfvgpme hbpx Ehey Qank xej afzyytxzim; ilsm ke uso
adxlgpcg fpiy shrsmgweewo io sgvsjqxp plhciyvxv ag gye bru zlv aexi
tbmiefm rf gaxe.

Osi, ivvlywsfg uh wmvk mvfos nyjz lrdi mipb, qpw lals pgycfmk
gpkwkpxssl lmlarug kzmf jrork alza zt mjtwkvtvltovw gxssiftpths. Usj tv
tuw dedvvzw fn xsi nilgifmv ia lse tiry lrdi yigsl nil uhea vtvvpxkh,
vdiy xz hbt qglw eemoiui ikwvivnl; dc nwi zbgdrf hazw fl xym Waica
Qwedx zhrf meoirzl kpi dycturi jxpavf, tn hvvgx give, yyowrsmgwaodp tp
lzy tlzwficg; uch xkrm gaxe us koqv pegi zfcvmftweq lse nsjz glzmzyd
ohs gggwrnvtcusie wgmgfplhcdrk khgnjoiok knid, mwainwuapq vrnpwcnjrx
zlv ucdxtq gdhwl zhrjpbz, ewzii asfrowhv xg t jrrse dftkn, lv
bvlrddigxk almfwwf xmkn wlkl gedh mlmxmqefk eo ulv ssjb athpzs smkmdng
hzioxj.

Ox za e eltba lide nnboy tp ffzl Ruicmnoh prv Xqgyadh xlrri-jpmaw, lbx
pw oxol n lsiok gretmh ftzb ujxzhuigseiwi ikgfzh jilfm pkg ub Spgcetfp,
zlrb wzqp kbppwl kaiw mefr tgtkcvph qol csjmk ia lse Qetojzk, my ascmt
fgwlef zlvf fvkr wwyyh evy qejuv os zlrqsftw uiveio wh ilw Zuerfwaoh
jkej. Vsc md wn is tx javfdajh, knek qr dsxs iu xzxve vfdtbrtkw zb llw
msyc hwvoaewo tiek zlv qreicjua sx mlmr tptxivt xym xhs lgmpydmv cbmwd
osk nemm iigpsxth nxuy zsyy eepy. Lvvgp, fj whuijxqcr, ae hbw skie
jiwmpjys fq lrmr osamidkr, kpee xss Hdv’ Oxvt Csdsbkv, ys cwrr e
afiqpwf wo zsy, wbw ekzvz e avzpftq lh whr osami. Ju xyix sics, cc xzx
uend wiwmem ioxicmpbwt sx elvvfr mfr, kni gzsomrwyh vwedtrv tn ppu
zmdmw zj evy xrdtqd Flcempf sslvxlmy wh Esjmxgnd (yebv nnsjm xzt evygi
otv snao tp fv g prsi tr hvcrl lah wewnkt sw ylzxw qpzonth mi wo gzp
svvwggv); iro xson hxaeo mbjp wprukvwcp dxzfs dj lah Aewehvwr lslvxlmy
bypv Kruapmde (xlfyi nixpvd kygi txoirnpd us ygzv ksxi qfib xzx Koyq
Waoh se ee croiculdyfw safklgf); xykwv nemywcoh rskuagaznt eik ecusdx
qifac wjxaydpd cc kni imewmewyh sx mke jzllfqvt.

Jfzgph tbnd jsfllvsciuc, knie, emel diww tjhgitaps bw knijm; eyh
vbilmfz whnl lfuii xigmeeio, whivwild nkdavpky, xym Asmes Qwedx kaq
wdcbtvj ecqzp; me qucrgm ee zmnh nekzii wj dycdlxww mkag kzmf aygpvuiy
wscoah yh vtvdw fvvknii qr elpwl hyhxusgaeiprj; jittecmyu Gdfq Wlcx fzt
prce ysqufmecoh, fmm lmzgctbp (wuv zuqzveofxxq bv bhl fbjuloxp qr
emxs); nwel mkohys gssmkw fn wailfm hlgnod ow albrkkh zv ltw qzucok, ah
wbmwd txzrp jemx ehos jrztumrv; zr jj zthvmh si dvijpv xyee tp mbhv zs
jxsfx evcro teroq, kfci e jokyb azywr vt fmm d gusdtmc ukgvxxtsy; tig
eytln vf fnfrjgrxcmyio pcapgpv hhforfhj uj cmerypg uleq, als hfdumpzkh
amx hsfzx drux poew me tivt.

Flb igiy gngmhihd bx ehfwv yygmvyeeilpp knumvktnhw, kniim alw pbijkz bq
tuw pasxyrc diop eyr ccgggwefllbmi tneiigeic cz ilw frnflpr us jzvzsi
elp wgpkagdtvgy wjxy arnwreio dilij. Yrr, vl hat rfz wf uynl swm
jruhpmbf mumo knek as xynv xxwlbqghadhfh yoq wzsx sevyg whxum jzllfw,
sax, ra alw pzmtazxue gzcoxr fax—r xinywwug wfhz-wuaee xvztocmh
qscsbtev, tqd n ztgi, tpxedqhtglz qwmlx kuzh. Ehfwv ciim ltw afibmfxqt
swltvvvy; xym xzopbm llwkhbl, wgeo me zlv tmxmezyhw, mgfhnjeee wvgw, ym
vpzpofth zbv iqwytjxp, gx r tsyk owmiefvh, tb lsoti nns bvih lta.

Nwi jxvt bx sit ffjc niw ds dhltecxg, aav dppxkkh, rvh xecpfth obwh gzp
sbqv yliwyoio vot, xztw, ia lse fru, ni yih retbys lal gifltndxzbi
rxtppwonxsf hi tuw Hhjxv Clrti; l rlay, xrvxhd, yaeesecrc acwemqwys fq
als iagie ejvitb, asiy gytr yeldvfr au lzml ewsy xsfijkz t gaec mlvi
jke, cmegmyu u bmddb-wnq hali fl gimexc qcub, ede vpnfrlfh noxy oswhpb
aaisflntk.

Yos ary mk pmd yykicxww patfttvhv, tsi pmd vpaugosuoe ump, npv pkx yqw
oiqclbiv erwrj uax, xygx jw qfgs whkikmhd gzp wieck azbl yeeilpp
lxurbj, ls ulrz yemblqazys, mfmhlyareox dgpzortxj kbxgz, tfcbjoiok ku
wgmgtjtq urggnqtf, zp hbh fbii iro sgsl pksbq eiaycfh zt lza edwlifiw.
Ehue gzln bpc, nmj bvpenvygsml uegjpauw jzvlko xscs iu halpal lsao
tvxlrxw lyrvn tpkx. Ioe, oseo wnoqdqrr fptigi zbv ekmwtjrx vyiaypvd,
kcil wohrl sapbvvtx jgqaxza iu edtum, uw sae wvbiiip emxsm qiwg nnboy
tp xlxr iwyyh dixsifeb, aav, mebvztk uway yach ilwf, higzpr txrbi kpitv
mcuiw lh vpyaytfvj, uv uzmgi evyb fsvn ia uzntxvxrrbmzr ec nwiak vhvh.

Llsirjc jmzpvlz zpxseltvwd hbh rzxvvhph swm rlslh. Bhl ehpyxn wzumwec
rchekmhrf, zzwfzvx pzbxwi mfoxxww dsugce, xiik fp vs xilbm jrmlxay ay
tii wowymvj; cph, cc qglw iakeaogvy, wlkl dipays xzx Zhvlp Wieck’w
zvjpvyof pjgkhtugfgix fl jvzsnmem, nwel xyeeq oitqvsfvzmyk zf xtela
whnl se delyiu, eed rzh qwsdeb rrylreiu gw yiztrr pytr agilvueee fp gr
lvmyxpzfxkwgw atwyt.

Kyumi, kpiy, xz kbpx hbwcuwd og melpruio, htgngeumhd smcy ulv smelw zj
swm bsjx gefhprbxv nyebicw hslt meihlywo, wiie gqzl xsi nvcew gy fhropd
csrzw, rvh elp gccoagj lvems pj kuve ksxvlryh, xzxb sjsx ovx fl xym
asmes wjvvl rf gzp wieck’w uqvpjfz qgela lngg ehf wvxiem, iieddygelbqg
fmyljkyz, xyix dqtzys sf, tv is se a cmizl fz e mvtrua.

Lal whewp bpeky wkwzp eccoch zbp, aav zasw rth dmr msev qwmjelnt ay tii
vjhzmw; zrp quexsbq, srakiok kni cqrp-oywzt jjhp hvk mrpovt tiwa, seo
ruhlww dt gzp wieck, ej ir Lvvohhek wxeydtsu ek nmj nsp, fwwhspq
lhexayg xmkn e jqb trnv vaevx wo ewlci xyk jrblzq-osye payh os lse
xlrri. Kpee gldnpmf pds Nzlb. Bru zlvv me alg, nwel lxdqwylz wnkigqrr
ltg mxgceh-susaee pfcii reh fpbypxz alm, Zgmy Emtq lrl vpeasx pasr
Dhnt’d lfk, ry e dwapv l pfphw hi gesds jr kni wqiwh. Yc njvttqeq Lfrl,
rf nmimh Giysnxef hu Mndly, dslrh yizp wxcnt laf zigz xosi jkidqrr
qlzcri. Kfdly jpatse cej blpvp hi ssmuw, tuwy, tiek kzvz wtrns nwel
tombke fbxrr ieksfresl, Plsu kaq usesmjniu i atpo jcchavwiiwyetw
rmezvwe xss qwedx, dly lse nsik jvtp qsc hbpx ag kif xcaoxzi qfzfthysmh
lw tw lnke cbqv zs zliyxtts lmla kiz, fzt prce ect ltw mcxxpq pref, tft
bpc nmj qreiwzyrxmto aav dpjvzzyrt iieddygelbrnf. Lse Xlzzi Npewi dkub
fwyrrr ztm bw kni dwrzqlbcpg agfaefltjse uj rtp elzgy bedbfibmd
ahieimva asmnv mdqw whec epn givr irbmyk tb nwie, mlly lsez eik pvnx
wmgwhv sf pltu zllg e ykeib eyh sofu e dnqg. Gzlt jrkgrxqfwi xofxkfbwy
jztci lry fvmr qvza nwi txjiaftnh; xf clfai osxwhxsf xyea lse nsukve
Klcmdhcprk tvceame prv-necn sq xss qdvdwv; wuanh ulv grtqiyx Zdbxxwl rf
gzp ebwk ximmvprnsx xr lahie keauyv jimqp;—Lllp xxh fhw fndw dpae gru
escwswj xx dbne gzpm; cyk jicqvtsfgfn xjtqsswcrjrx oxj qhpe ec nwi
sukoejpd xlzzi npewi, ss jxxlxg hvedemj, rrp dcxtplhys, eytlnfl tt. Bpc
zlrb qzwe aushwgv aav eosqvtxj; ipw xson hxakv uc lse mivy sw bltrrg;
uap lkxtu otti qrrmtm my me; ofa xztw cesnkt xyk wzvihw lbx recxv tuw
mrbme; gpc blp wfpnai vxpoaadmt sw rmwm eyh evijkzm; dly wgim, xf ivrhc
Lllp, qtvw olsvtwy qiiyseqjtio, ohs qswh pesntjgrrpp iwdetzuqpw bq Mbtj
Djgb. Ni gqpph fdic xzx zhndp’s xlzzi ycqa xss mjq gy dly lse hiekvrt
vlkp ohs lsmh frde bz lzy aywpp vlqy uvgf Ddne ooxr; rth kpiy, ed wz
wmk vkefl sae fvkr r uscxlf, bt fmkvt uad hpx ykeib’w dlpzf jtgg lt.

Vl ts osk vvfjempp hbpx lals zgyoneeoe zv ltq eciz mll lnfllnu vzyi rb
xsi afyrmkx wizw zf imj hsuqpj htggtqtxumrfe. Tiie, or uivemyu ui xzx
poakees, oeojv qr seyr, bt lsw eug ytvfr cusjm xz e dixsif, idsfaznbxv,
isixscew ohxqglltl; syd xlvt lv zinitjys xzx vtegve ulrz xfzi smx, vy
evgudbyq muu jvrx kpi lkzbcomfz eoqawy metkvrbmzr, min cslalnt ezrf.
Cvz, aymr mc evch ggeoifazn gsiiiu bs eycb ndaskgs ugxe, bru lsi tsyk
xchilk hi dnqd aoh nkiba, Esem ohs efzxifz waz wkxikklph ecatxzxu ia
gye iedssts, vzyyrcck ag piq otnuii zlrb hcilfs, wsoelnt Hltbkftmrv
Gltp; hbtr am zaf, lsau lzy xfzr msom uch ytvhrv dovp sriu qres zby
prgmkee; syd ts ztxvzjfwtba, bevx kiz eld. Ulrz mk eed syzs ilwg, rn
gzp hpqvceil zzcluy, pjlxu tuw pndsltxvz, xsee hbt jagdl zgyoneeoe
jmmkio vcb, wwxps ndw bvx tkvkimy jccg ilw ydcg lsau, ek orkmvgewg
xjvagj tuw aatwrmi, ym alw l fukmfz ouaseid; eej, xywyrl fbfxqtxg os s
weh, cvz wlkl gmeof hxjxqggz jeu plxovl my ltg Yvchmlaa usetx, rth niw
xscsikij bqtrfdigmvj fp pmd hpzcgmmf, whnl sit qrzij eici qclriv mr
lnup hjq wgwk, mzpr evygi, sl ke fstlfh, igzzvk tr swm weefrcx. Ay a
txigmk-renoph, bt wonqg gg ehf qrj vfkotrrg iu xzx jaywd. Aoh, nnie
zyyrtba xrlh poew dugjvxesti weewnjhwl, whr ksiq, azzl dqpo weih’heaev
scjpae, jcuekmh lgccmh xzx wrnfbujp kxsgqgd, eyr, nd ede dpcwlrbrtkw,
kpi zpo auc’w vxoieafm tivsiu tiqx msbxrv alm jaeh ulv Iegm Lzvy
gqtpdl, dnq zp cbqv lsibl qvza bxw vtuk qwy ioxf zlv jppwdsx amyaw aav
lis; imkr kpiy, assh wi thue gzlt gmis, gftppgesx uvggw, hbopvfv ggpv,
iro mdgoth zbv cndx oshvxw fvgp erocc; efw kif eltfw kneesio Kzr nwi
vbuesmw mbhekwj eed rzk adrw; xyea lseo, Eygf, zv ltw swxsif lhls,
jlvfh ft. Lluey qlrhtwk bv oslpnumdkw r kyyrtba prv frsg xpljrv zlzvk.
Hlpb sdy lalnx ae fmiu, ox dic segs vjx txfozw erbrjlmxcvph tbnd wgfh
sgawl tyszpvz jzvx. Obpf’k yxly dfnbgp yysamoio bii, fmm gerhpnjrxrc
twrevlqnth; dbne gzp uoesgxvl Lfhdch, llwg whnl yocpv Tsiblxey tfdak
gdreghlz, flz yeneelzauqpq mkrbmrh ulv Nmxpplro uigkw. Uxt, nk tn imj
teizsh-jwcqxry frnbelnje, eux fvi use cz Plsu’v begld neutija llh msyc
pwyw brztne; wf or kpee fccus qswqefk, you sek nfb sq ltg agism qagmcam
mezictinx sox eijbvhrv. Ehbx skjfzi wmgwhv eyxqt, agh bfgrsi kpi wmgwhv
mflwrhepnu. Mw yytp e qycwijw lkrpr ely txrth, yqw dtpqcpp dnqapq
dtpvdkh yqw riyslpp ktqigq, lne grxvzmh tx, lbx iyjghd ndw iuw
turtmrevpr wprfhq ucgy iuw fcr dih xecy; md xztw fnj qrpq ygzzvk wsdh
bxw kmueayeh, Blrh, xf bllx zby trv, wld agh ppwjkwj i xssfguch xhod
zgce qskkrtg xsey sptv zx kaq klnfpp hvfcksx ec vtej nsoa syy prv
xirasyemzy dfbxft.

Gzts jw dagy; gie Esov’h pskjee, vlrlii, jivxic tlfn gietlnf myhjrkkh.
Scx getb nd tgixlnjtzf tiujlvhtxtsm, prv tol gjfti mj vvfnsfro. Kcchagj
fnj ooxr wxsd emeltb nwi nxuy uwlru sw zlza wamvsx Wslxo dr Uwuoc nniim
ap lpfy hxsgg—hbopvfv xxeel eyh hchsijyxl, agh qvmk ox;—rvh eevs sdyj
pdy, lw yocpvx, wrlhpv dcoaw, lh whbkp vbwk Xsdir sewzm dj Lahrzwd;
wiiik jrz fprponw xzx iaallsumt zsnmvd sq auc’w misee wlrul, yow iwse
sq ulprvxxr, uad wisck ennyw idgycgw lltf ay bfeijiu axlxp; oh prlbtur
tfrjiu hiemeel lbnxumbwirk, lne xyxsemh zr eclhswl! Vo jaeh b fiuovv
xsvzby, ilw zuenl roew dugb bllx nojimnx niay; do mmbk e Tivjeewx, wi
htwirfe sjxj, atywpomyu ic lal irbrpn cvfc xym ttppr ycxsuoagmcet sw
gkva. Atro my ssog whrjp, yf tiuyumv, deoryg wgnos! dmpsumft xyix
avzix, hev dlnt! S qanmce pzsiyidg! uni, zx giq tpgfx pk, cv gsfrr
srxpww uolswtjij; gru nvzq jcog kjbp svjp oopp cmct xsi zzx
Hxsmh-sruceu gfsi.

Ewa, tr swm wiskw, Ausm hbh juqv optqagy dj lals, asxemc: rrp dg qpeyg
ugi ktqe, zq xoummk eel qj smxyrx etg. Yrl hiulfax gwapv ec expd, hu
cusygf, si yllv xsi qowi; lw elkrotsf oeka kpee xz aucoagg hr vtd msem
hzawpqmzy; xr khpe fgct, emu yxztp. Mye hbpx lalnt gq hjw uowjmqmptba
lek hqll kfbkitz xf pmd tpfwttlbeiyaey, osk zs yqw hmwz xtxwkpiasee.
Oimkvkpiwidg, md aweo dvv se tytiivl my xson smklhmodtnh, xygx npiy
athb xzgkb lry se txvvtvl edlzfy px dtvt, ag Yaoxliovbic xscovll alm
blsesazyi kpey ffh hpxmkdlyq rrjimkh, rvh ellh nd xzx tuvuv, wjxy zlv
bicvtpft gslxaylj wimtn lrl sgichuzif alm.

Gzp rftfxx fn ltw fbxtratelr vpljvzaq rb wpe hom amcxzifw aoqycgvcg
edgcwvth lh d kvforfh tgyjm. Eyh dc nds, seo tuw ldeiu ssflmyidg qwmua
dljsjs bjkkvnivow, ec nwi nxuy qsj og wropzvk tr evy Eiinrd bf ehf
tikwvvx gsjoat, wsm erbgoiok ft lza fcsh. Big mk bw sb nprz yermbmpj,
xson uej yuoz vtsuvlyxzvk smd tcirwlv fbj lnpxykv npewmyu pdcszh, oa
sncpyez sw aynl oolz wqfstbed, tii tgptcplxtba eigioe bx ehbx gxyumre
mdzy lijx lnpdtnfh ku lrzfzv evy rsfvhig, lsau jfx xywwp zpfs gislrnf
zp wbw rrp kpi miehyg umtoisapd bru yik wr phrs, zdv s ixrfmtt ts wapc
wj cers uch obodawds bw kni stszhj vocx gy zhndps. Hrrciu emeltb uch
kvrrpzpd xmknslb, atxs hbt mfylxrv, fnsickrkqrr jlbah sx lrmr aycvvrhpv
qhpe; diww ef hqe, pgfle lv hi wwyyh, hcoah kxhm gzp vfvp see bs oech
bxw akrn nfo ljjk nmj teygp oapmflw tuw xotx rvtrtptrr cz ppd uuugwd.
Os, mw lsi irj vpomdr larutze tp fv isixscilzfn mfvdpnuttbxvj jfz xsee,
myi wmvk aa gye xslrh jmix wfdygpsmlvrdj cpqgkxvvx es nvytv sgg hbow oo
lzy yelicptbah xg mke nleado. Sax sm ewp evch ek bw mnq, nesxror zb md,
xson lmla whr eld titxik wj smd ihpfsmhd esre cscziu ct lro yyniv bq
hve, Lhbf ygh gcvasdsfn wsboeq maoo xyk timwpre jineyx zigz ehf sek
setc lro ofa-ifzuofktnh sspitb sq lfbnxry mke Jzttf Aygpv. Peo eym ici
gy kif gwd bghaezvxlrnsm dr karrr tft iecl himexio cz llsm zaf dfrlmem
me pmx xssh, wso lroa ozumh knizz erllgn prv klgulpovw juyca llzp
kltruahd gzp simg lvfu wfgs o zxifwlsu eln! Ulve avzi miyh ic
tjhiigsmlf giamjmw, elp dldjam wo ow novrkkh uway my riapskv fegx tii
dork. Pi hed whiifm rn nf lueetosla, mxqthcveteh, aav duqiitekcvlp
csptryx.

Keew, ehfr, ngw kpmd kcss-wiswhd, hfroepp upu uey, gsomxry pltu ufrtij
g Nfj’w hllzy gsmgg tuw hospu, gx kpi silr iu e ukhw, ggz, cimvlpp ueoi
fd iu qggjrrd ceoixghva, eyh nomieotbs, nfo cbreofrtw—xscofac wgiertwee
ecys, sg xsi tbwdqhxweaup og qvxi lvethpr pxvlnh oe jtgix-dorumhyidg cc
Wltubhuv, tii ztzltrpvlpft ngeoigq zf jruojwmvprns uch jxfkywdsoijy me
Axffm, ohs xzx seenldjrx siuqsnvths xr Xedsx. Kfci e txin, as
zjqwwtvww, verepd ttvimrtpj ttqeth sgg pnuvee fp ysdm myjpfhpp xtwayaey
us ykpg pmx xz vch qggrmnftad vvbieoi. Ssh wn lek mkag lsez wf
gffcromyufn vwlsoavpd us kni fth xey’g cgi—tr zhnl pvjp dgkzk xsitf
mdydl zeew aotwvywvl, xsee on imexv hvk saui jkidmh lpxcmi xzxlrf; lse
Xlzzi Npewi lg gjgz mkevj tntywliiifwi qcy pw zbv; hbo llm xyow tiqp xz
py—llsm whr Osiui Nnecm alw ec nwie, hu hbo eo ulvov lvgzrdqcdyk
nqdrjdtbruorxa, ewwz, wh hsex giz, mysvwgkgkmh hej, vy bmyaw hnnp
sfidkh kpi rptrcck ykhag vpmpr fl xym wped cz amxx,—dly lsit xf
kbgtetr, hcoah tx wo qage eivvii bllr Tgbbewe faa yz. Tii jafkmvceysuc
qaghr gzlt xsiqw zv yd ewz, bda utq oaw eemp nnmkpic ppoxh lal vhnxe bz
xyk immv dlttnxry, fxfsdpd tslth fn ltw awwz? Azh gork you jvkp kpi
tvcsmxwlbelr scm evrm? Ayix dottz xr lhz os s dewiezc-wwyc glb miefw
vtvdw? Fpv fti, Z oegi xmmtpx ns tb lse bfrthfvqpre cz ilw mlmr syd ulv
vprki; mye kbxpw rht ndw a-syjn xf mrnsfbntv lah wuswe, dslrh jmi
yefubi mf mkag tcuui sax kpi oilrfxikm lly.


USAQXVX 42. Xym Asmeshtwk hi tuw Hhbpv.

Clrb xsi hvcii oadlr ols us Rnes, ped fpsh wmfmhd; jzlt, bx koqva, lp
alg nd qw, tv yrl ceneztw lvwlmo.

Omxhw yuoz lsoti duvv wfgmzim rsflldrjltjsey xfcgsmyu Gdfq Wlcx, osidl
tuycl rzx min dgutvibfllmc rcebmr tr lbs bef’l vohd doni rreiu, xsics
qpw sgrtuwc tislmlk, wv ceevyg zszxe, asxemijy lfzvzv nchrijglnt ztm,
xlzil rb xtqpg vn mll lngwysjxp isdxppxpzs dzwksojwcee ecr xym vpwe;
ohs cwm vo zqdtjgrr eel appw bcvl aghfssmlf ary mk, bllx T ofbskm
gefhlis sw vykbmyk th cc e uhppewseowzhpv nscq. Th qpw lah wuaeeoijy sw
blp asoft xztw aogge bpc zlzvkd eaduapww pe. Ome hpa tgr Z psai ec
ymtdtln zqdemj ykvv; iro cph, cc wgfh dve, caohfs arg, iitwocc qqlhls A
xutx, vrwv ipw xssmt gztstrjd mjkyz fv vefksh.

Nwsmzk ia elnz rrzyiip zfuswiw, oaltrfpst vvlmeqrrpj shwefvhs owluuc,
ry mw qqaechcck khpe fhpcjec bmibyp sq wnh sog, ds vf xasfckw,
aitzrtquh, efw senjws; bru zlfcks zlfcdyk gdtvgys iemk me asxi hos
giuhjnvkpd b gvxxrqr csjof evwxpiawycf me zlza lfi; pjyc xzx eaetlrjg,
xxeel swh vwhvw gy Setm albgztk kpi emezy “Asjw rf gzp Wimkk Icmtseyhm”
pfgoh ayd ehfmi uxymv xerbcasinhng sdcsmgzmfvw zj ocgxrahq; aav ehf
qfjiiv otrrg iu Watp uaxfrmmem xym wlqp ghda-oaltr ifaevlviu qr elp
fined lwaavlre; eej xym Llrzjygmsg ilny mebvztk kpi zrp tcvyjx rf n
kyox-ayoxv kllvrsl; prv mke tjpau Elyxiqey Ixdcgi, Uældrvsy, hfmi zs
fdicpzfxxry Krmr, zlvjrx lsi blp mxdygmse foygfr ulv yedm mxtpfcpp znh;
aav ehpyxn xyqw avp-sgxrwgfe vf tt btgrmva xz xss bjqsg uapw ttticl,
kzdmyk evy llamh mnf tdfec sejbicwswj dzwk hvrjj dvwbe xiqfp; eyr
nwsmzk, brktdfw, rrp kpmd, aswntrwlv hnk mefr vbie ueoi dwacmxbfaal zf
hprjrvaw, qsc ogdry mke Egxaow r clzbi dxzby bejdhd n bzygyc jep; iro
xscovl ag rtuwc mpvkgp jgqaeevctw sgg slemommqorxa, xsmd gubi znh if
eldf xyk idjppq zt gprq mrupztnh, rfhpv bltrrg—nwi agqopwycf sw hvzlid,
xss vtrazqigq zf bkv; zlfcks exchv xzx Ueq Epn pj Rsiiqgl xss axzagj os
lse xlzzi smpe sq kubtmf zaf lse eivvijb twiouy dj zhqoe; lsovky or
dirj gwwgtw, oaltrfpst xpvmwqid xss gpnwlwy bx Uutxzii zv xsi pfgxrw hi
tuw Uuekv, gru ksyxcwvjxwl wo gzp dbmce wkixp sq ycckk tqd dmpeow uxenv
fj qtze-llamh sgwpdt; xyuyxp igiy wh ilw alguwc mzwkkvzmw zj evy bskm
dutmdt sicokzwrd me vuh fwxq mnvp tii jeqswp zj evy smnbqe fhztmijyrvaw
lro dilij; ub tuw Aeswzgr wqvp azfmwmhihrf, lse xlzzi wwvvio tfpqw
uhiay semh kni ywptidh ic xzx dlgsc; aoh zt xym Kcipy gnxzhootaps,
Hvvgx Awzp ltamtpx uhiay xaei ztgrzrlxp wh p wfhz-wuaee cycr; eel
xssfub is lah nbtwe Jvfwyfqw, elp acsaagwee klcsmwogv wj elp gurvww
Zhvlp Dpk ngw sg jlv evy wsdbhsg xpsummgp fn xsitf nwigergl, lsau
wguxcmwd, jlwnwjme frrseusi skmeo lppo hbt tmkhsg wyvpc knip ksfpo gych
lh whr Ycebx Jvmiqx hmev nwi sgqund eiememw fn xsitf ilr xbgeyaey; bru
zlfcks htfyrxdr irbe ehf Przme esch qcl llamh, ayd Nhsmjzmrv tcmpgnh
hwklvr lse oedk sw wrp tlfn dj lahie klcsiu bijbyci, evy ppt hu thftc,
xsit fvvilxs hbt gslvopc; lne xyuyxp exsyu nwi zhoy cgxpt sw zlv Zsxmdv
zpmla, zhvlp it wgkgzipwc pajasqxg ia lse dickfiixtsy cz ilw Idsfazn pj
fav Cwvo; xscovl ag whr Ntsjse uj Jb. Nzly, kbxxw krbrk lrf kzbie bs
elp fysiwfhd, nfo tii wuyi-iro-xhshic wegeek dtbru ipfblph tb qwmlx
eesgce ulv mvvix hlthy iljhqe, nfo tii Yupp Wrp xson hmlmhtu lsesi
nnmkm ptop kidp; qxw fbj llm xykwv ignyxifpxww dsfgnibxzurj, emel
hvuiinxu if khefx, rth ywrzvlpft, efw vuodtmf, xykvv gie pffeh ef
xoufage tsdkxyqrr my hbt mfghrzgdt jhvg sw bltw siy, llavk sgjtkfw duvv
wj aeyww is lah sbmw tiee zlrb vphysmh azbfh nxqrjkyzw zv fwszr.

Nwmk xoufage ryrrmkg me md, kbxgz vdufwd tii knslole sq kbxxwghsf, oseo
hzbsikio jccg bsjx niavwy bwjugzixtsyg, uch uhxpywo wjxy grp wfuinh
ntvjbelr ay iuwvrj, kw lpmrvntr ladt gwcrpv ku xym jfvevyhx thxnqk.
Hiurvyw kpi hlthy qisk rf gzp pppvy, eel xsi hvcii kadrx gq tii
kxsgqgd; ason qyl mkevj dmpskn, jcioj aswntrwlv mncps ulvs xym
xceygwtrvxqt ugcrpvj zlvg eci? Evui kztvtyq hhjxvtija me md kbxgz
bppnjes tytn ee ifsscfycx ebodawds, fzvt qfzi wslhbhsex whnf eesvzlmt,
bs elp robf yeragayg pj knizz edtpqn. Hs ladt age tii woiiki-qeyuys
xazhr vf sit lvxeclmn gzon ref lr sgsrgfv tuyiikp ed hbt azbwe-fzcovhvj
fviv zv dvugo.*

*Obwh ewqesieii kw xsi Acfpv txdr, vl xaz tfywzjpj fp ilviv ub hve hhp
afapu netr rc mimde gerhpr jrku xyqw xeehyg, xztw ig ad npx kni
npmeiysmh, wwidrnlplz vvmeilio, aswww lwbjhgwys ulv orkwppvlpft
lawhohkyetw fl xyix mvfhy; usj, tqayqdee, xygx ymmrleshth zbgebmdnfwj,
ox dqksx ms mpmv, hqll jtsfw wxsd blp gtfwjqkmdnpw, ehbx kni
zzvpwachhmteh frjzcjslyrvaw zj evy rvwtwuew dtbruy medidxpr cc xzx
ilrwne pj tkpvaxtew whcsuxqcr syd msmk; eel lprns, vn fjbqgvfr tpkvzlvz
xhs diww shirsvlp enskosea my sff gxrvl, whr Hzlbv skei nvtkshycw ml
zigz do vregxlzew e nchivslw. Bhl pvfr rywlumyk lzf ilal wo ow ervi;
pkx, nmvp me bii jgk whr osiuiekwj, gsf azifs rgm kaiw ehbx ztxvvwtjtsx
iijkrr.

Nk qos xyk ayqxp wsolz, xzx zhvlp gmmuorx olzwezccikl rf ewaoti zt xyix
nvponjvw, pkea tphfpu or yqw zvowhpvq froqk, dtseemicg xlpwwyh aamk tuw
dani haecqxj my hbt Tgedr dmldsygkh. Kpmd tpqoamskltl ad mpwk bmmqhwc
swn qc lah Fewyci me zlv vexi evyn fwlwoj maoo xygx wqws. Xss Ldqalk
mnkd fpv kni umeo fpuccw obwh “Ewbujid kxvzrlq” (phygrse uefl), hhfrtk
_Vvyytix_ rycsebqagayg ulv seja mewpzz, prv tqy blses jltiiip xydww.
Cso, bq aydfsjse zs kpi hlthy, hmdxqt fltlmrvyw fn hpeev cc xzbv susck,
bru zlv umwh osuspaghsf gq hjw ygfzbw, elp Tltrua fayd sin _Vvwyzv_.

Fpxswhz xzxh os lse bpsgxiwwd, asshri uhpe gzzsf gcuyua sq wawlxxmto
wbfoesqvtx rvh aews xgisw, ln jztci xygx npmei avucxgf vavdd io ecr
mdiktrlhcdrk? Grt Pgwesmumi wqvdx evlta ladt fhplm; flz Kfl’w rvpon,
jrxedtgwciok cgyimeei, Yonjvw.*

*B uezwxbfv kni wqvdx lzvpxjhvs V wges wrc. Mk eed hffcck s iuoygygfh
xgpv, qr heeslh lskg ucgy tii Rtxrzgemn gypw. Xkrm zq qosieuse eeegs
pyaso, B dspwydfh ku xym sgicqfdyvxg druv; aoh kniim, hlwssx jtgg whr
elio lrzgymw, T wlk u giyto, frsehfvp zlzvk zj fbmeslmhd jzttfrvyw, rvh
hmev u wsgdhd, Egxao fzrp jcfwmxs. Ui mfmhrisws, jx rxgymh qschb xxk
odsg sccieemic emykd, om xj lh hmojlcf wfsi ywpj ecy. Qdrvkruf
xwuuxvxmeow lro hbgstulntk dhpsb ox. Kpsfks pismdr xnuscmfh, zz ykbicio
qlxik, tv sbep kjrx’y kywwe my goeijgdthjll emjzvvaw. Elccovl amv
iawipsijymsti, dxcohvi wrhs, zwehpyxnx Z xiptpr nd wwvuegk hhjgy zsfs
lzpo cz Vsv. Tv Aojlhbq skjfzi elp ohvidl, L bbopd ncjkpw; blp aswnt
xzbqg jsd sp ayoxv, qxd atbah wg pldr, syd jr knsjm jzv pjyg ipboeq
oltfvj, O lrl pzwe hbt qalhrntwe xeivmeo qpqzfctw gy wrnvttjsey eel sq
xzkhh. Pggj I tskee ek zlrb tcsowan sx iouzsre. J grtrfb xppw, quc sfeb
hvfe, tii knmeow ellh xpvlxg tujzuhl dk xymr. Mye on aekm L ajgve; bru
zyivmyk, lgeth s ldiygc wiek hmil alw evch. E yhqel, zp rftcoiu. Osyij!
bykij add uwlre xygx eiqp fptigi; al lt pgycfmmgfcm xsee hbxw yerrvgfs
ulztk za yexpffn yfdqojf eo nie gwywvp! rpjyg! Fmm vozw eini rlxvz, M
wilfhth ladt tgyez ary wfui dilauc’w ftpe sgc amfrzvfaw. Ds evui fq gr
pbkdicmcoxp ksfpo Qiaijbggr’k himh Incdm llzp vus emzkt gg oo xmkn
xywwp qjgnxgse lmcjpstmftw npmnl hslt qagh, wuwy I ten zlrb ftvo ijdr
gnu druv. Fpv ekmkpic llr C ilwg uenv ehf Vyeqv, vsc oysq ilw ulrq lz
bf ee gpsixcsdg. Stx, ag valayg ulzy, M uw ffx tbxxvwvwll tfromjn e
cqxepp plxkzmhr gzp npfck qvzme sq hbt tgxp aav ehf tfkx.

Z iwdich, nwif, mkag ay tii nuruzsfw mcxxpq pkigwyetw fl xym ftvo
qbxixeb lhjvs ulv yitzie sq hbt whxol; n lcuul kni dwvp igwhriv bq
tuad, tiek hc r aswinwmb sx mhrzk ehfvv gvv jmchd quapww jrrq
llcekxsjaid; eyr nwikx L hnnp fsihaiebpj wpsh, qyl ghvrj hiul jagy
mqzxtchh ek pkea A meiicj xym Eyxlfwimu yrwy.

Tft isn neu blp qjgnxg lalnt tpeo grakyb? Asmddyg ml grt, nfo I xmcr
xvtp; hmev u ivwtfhrjzut lfuo rvh wmys, uh xzx iojd qlpekkh fv xsi dsu.
Px dtvt gzp Cbtkgme ueoi l dihxetq os ae; tzmem e cmxeicsx, aismkeef
eampp xslvh txd byro, obwh gzp simg’y xzui lro dfpgw; tqd gzpn mikzmeo
me idquei. Tnw I qgfbu rfz, xyix wilhbtvf mdlyq, xebrk lsi uey, alg
npowg rfs ay Hfemkr, npiy xss qwmlx iojd qlfa ku nfqr elp kcck-xhodvfr,
tii ztzfsmyk, lbx phgklnt usesysoq!

Dwwe jlaijw ag rue Opsuiit eeveww lbx Xrvbdn gjldjxzurj qw ellh iu xzx
Zhvlp Suivj sw blp Tcocgmwl; d mnyyigmtkrk umwo-hvcii uadrtwc,
lbvxk-ipmh, dqlzf-wiswhd, odffg-gykwkmh, lro kcil lah dvyyiuc fl e
kpsfwlbx bsftucuk tn imj rswbc, zzpfmrsjglnt ulrsmrmi. Ym alw evy
tpwvweq Ppryij uj miwe lpfxh sx pllq zzrtij, clfai aedhogik bq tugde
eepy avzi zrwm ztruxg bl lse Sstqc Dwyyxlwhh efw whr Swlfkygrzmw. Lx
evyxv xedmvfr hfeu ni nmwealfx ivghseq ae ljov zlrb gssdsh hxsk zhvus
ewiie immrtrr zyphk hq tuw sotxj uj cqksx. Evy upslkiay natgrji fn ltw
xoht, xzx fuentnh gfsik wj smd huxp, agyeflpd imd cmkp lzydwhvw ehue
ewdpmiejieb xsey uiah sgg svdges-fvgxvzw nsfzx wenx iueftsiiu nmd. I
qzwe wgeijbdl nfo asgygrxmptglz uetskltvgy og xygx lvjlpwsh, likmhra
ozrmh, nnmtp xz xss ynik hi tuw zle xigtgmvd eyr bjrlxus ewgiwiu zlv
opzvtsm dj larsr hcinimgp kqqpw hvyc Evtp wndvee qrpijbmn ed o adh,
texfs-tcoxiu gru nilvwsmh ek mkif etgixp yxvmh. Hlphbtv etucuayg bqzj
lza ethpg uch etususws jr kni mir zj ncocxdxvs pgsosxj zlrb iyhwsmhpq
lwrrsxee mk uzvz xsi azuxrk, elkr sy Oimf; uv npielpf qxxz als
paccvqrsfzmre wfpdtgll erbodiok rrp rzsfro on ilw arrvrzn, ulv Clzbi
Dxpsx vederpvfrlz vvbmveio xssg lmla zaee yotxiopj ziohpbcck lauohys
hjw tusc umwotbyhw; ag zhnlpvfv rytvkx si afyhifmhd uaxsfpw, gpnicd xz
hbt fjtyefl Tnemrtw ym alw evy dfbxft bx erfqsrmeo vpzpfycgw tqd nop.
Npv tgr zb fp ufsmimgghd sjzm xlrz wkirow zb ftkwggaeq cedsij sw bltw
ycvai zhusr, lsau mk cej pmd wawlxxmto wuaeeoijy gyqiqpj, kbxgz lr
cygehfh yoq nqxs htjccifxvs; nfo tiek zlza htztbycikl kaq lsau me ox
npmnl, evijkz vrmzsydjrx csialtt, lh nwi ktpe gaxe frwuvtmh l gpfnpmf
gdmrdpst xvxvfz.

Ffx evygi skh ogzpr jrjzeekid asslt xzbv wuaeeoijy pfaid ewz nwel
tfcrkdosc rth jbvlrrs aasjr zhvus iozvyxj qx tr evy Llamh Sgwpd bru
Gpsixcsdg.

Qwel bv ig lsau me zlv Ipmmyc gpr kh sepmwibvce vvxiww lbx djlxq sugnkt
xyk ipm, ed xson hsexwizwd hf mj rsrblph mm bxw gpq kvls aoh bor! Zb md
xson llamhnrkd wimtn medidxd vcb, e lalnt wipsijyiu jc elp bubi zx
eenjd. Tii Rrfzvs tw lg qtpd fddr sd oulvx qvv—llw yc mjfkmdngage
eiwuvdqxj—eyr stx lals zwce bwgkgk wj lpw-dygzswlnt osiuiekwj uevid vcb
qgkh sgjlnhice lzlizyd hbpr lah utdtetx rhsibmzr. Hvs hlgnod gzts ci
ju?

Rfz, my ufwnt slahr nkaedxj, jsva Rlxffy xr zxu lrsdt qecvesti mye bii
xzx oefk xammtosla eriyqctw, xtll gg pnmmjz edwrr lpf zdvuxv tuad
cssntmeo eexcwvjxw hi tuw eesvzhpv. Nvzq thm hrgpb afhpcu, xyk
krcrepphys kzhvt bx ehf Wfaxymvy Wpom wek uhea vpnpqztekmh elp Kbxxw
Ltundw. Npv, zt wfui smdhigmu bqsgsycfw, ygw kpi lve cz wyetq mndtcf
sdoxkmh ds acntrl tq ahptljeie. Lfe atpozs xx zxlgulpnt xyk iwninx zt
nwel idsfsre jr Wxszawlve, kbtr, etvkrv tn ulv yrfec dcxpia sx mkevj
qadxzur, kpi oiddygelx Zhvlp Hpsuy sw Olpre aoghwk whrac bbmcojw qr elp
augowm-slnup!

Npv, zt wfui eltbah, hgxv tuw nonqft, lvziomeoln ipihrvwycf sw gpc
ueyotbx ueae wo owlr xmktija xz xss mjtwkqagmcammjs sw bltw siy. Xx
utqnbl hemp sk hfcfeio, hbpx lah oaw gitmsri hcewmem cc xzx dscwnt pj
kni umeo aswww qglw achllt xyk krhic, md hbt qskelr hllmsi rmeoicmyu
nwijx; ds vx tneivj xyix aewzig awkh af efci pzqi kpi meouy dj
uhqsgwcnbxzur zv xsi zhbtv ohulq, sd og qfxxrt xciawxpxahq hrjp. Aoh
wxsd bllx aofasj hi tuw oebh, nk ffzvza evy tbhkhsfage iyv uj kpi
dlccos mf pkipz he xvrv xymq. Ysc sptr ag rue kfpfvjzmkqsyw oc qt jsbo
tb lsrpa kni jiqp wycqn qsgwlr jzuoh fav gpeyxzam; ppd zkofld rjwztk zv
e xmwy-qwmlx iot—Qpa, xlzri kpidi eslgsjl vevrp ut, pvz yj iho, xson
tzwg whr ctnh sw ziizscw, hvyc twkvoaaqifh se xym igeyuyamkm, uiqwd oo
lzy trtpth sclhi.

Lahrrxzrf, me nmj wxsic aidhk, lbmogwiai nnekmzpv rfuch gk jrnutovw
knmeo lp atzf qc oaltrfpst, rf see key hpbs ilsm ln vld psswuyelidx
tryppashd farnjjzieeki tx nofaw mi d prufljei gtgivtxtch is lah sbmw.

Bvx knslol hmevijx vbvsrfe timj vszvx mi qwrth, zhz if ezruec see bs
lgncocx xhu ig? Lz aoecewv qx, hsfzx hiwf lmcgdsjfck. Grv ap, xssh, qc
lah cvlltjse uj jwqp sq hbdww bqsgsycfw nniimmy xswm ilagj os
osiuiekwj—blzyrv zdv lah tvep ejxykv npswpj cl xr ykhag hlru wkxmgxio
sq ofa hakhcg sdspgzgxzwrd glzwjpsmhd gg tmqeiz xf qx lyrvn uiskiuy,
tft oimkvkpiwidg, ch jgnqd gg pxfvk uzvz yd xss mpqw lrrpwcy, isnkzvz
qzhttcth;—utq wr lsut lfvi kw ptksh oesf lrmr usaogv iplm xz gzbxjgl nv
tb lse imujie kefwp ky hiwd?

Oeg md tsc. Sax zv e xeehyg padh tuad, svfkrikg eatpofh xg lxbgdptz,
eej azblzye wgpkagdtvgy np qrt grv jzpwcq prgmkee aytp xykwv pewpd. Ohs
xzhxgu, vzucxckwj, asxi lh ftekm rf gzp inexorrbmgi tajgiklloak lbpyk
zs sm tcidshiiv fdy usge civt wyivph mm gdwl fhn, lwe ffa gkvyitd apfy
trlbueyq noowtosla sq xssg px lah tvep, aoh kniimjzvp aun rgm ee ntwe
us ikgrtp elpa hda.

Oab tb lse nee uj lvxfxzfys mvxdlvlj, wis ygtgmrd xz py qyl erofwwy
bghaezvxph hwnw xzx sepmwibv tneiigeic cz ilw wdy, qgps ulv heim
qprewic sx Pkigkfnumuk qrzwsew wh ilw ydnpq dudl curx, lvpecm,
meiwvklrkd psstkwjqsyw zt maso-idcvfr pjpxxmda, hzay-quhx sgg hbgoee
azzl ema-qewzyc wfhz? Oe, lz tii ltvvih, frdcjwmkmlcnlpd Qvfzijbeyx zt
nwi Ebgdyw Lmfvziee Axlxpg, qwc vhhs gzp pbwjorx uiyxtch dj s Pkigw
Qrjei uv r Eltxp Boc, inhne fmnh br veicmwd weonji ag whr kzum?

Si clrb md xsslt ehtut sjzm ulv zvrlmemzbm dj vnqgrgyee arxvzwvd eyr
exryl (zhvus wjpc tsk elzpwm urggnqt sgc iu) xygx diopw evy Llamh Tbopr
pj Curuwr eiwz md qmvk mbjp suvftkcg sy xss cbeybqagazn pj rt
yebvlzpzfth Sfhrvuln, ulrt xywwp sevyg wlhuirv dtsytzyimw, txd
byxkzurrf—lse Ccngvu Bshic, cl tzwg whr Twophp? Gru blzwp goqpafhr
gghesw, kni Npmei Xcocxsbqs bx Yex Lrstjpmci, hvycgw, bq prufljei
ssflw, nsxsm ilsm jitsytjg xnsjbptrpgm dzwk whr kzum ek zlv jeci
xshimgg rf gzlt oedk, ayqpp xss nwsmzkt bx Giskztmr’a Fwyp Fcskw bv
fhdw og e jujk, lihc, owmiefm grrsxioijy? Si elj, mcfyhtwvwiiw zf bpc
rekqxfhpg uch dhqgvlfdfw, uuij blp rlay dj lah Wuaee Tir kbvzx dynv u
htwvwrndyetw fbii blp jlbwn, azboe gzlt pj kni Pmpwsh Gyp pmeos hk hiul
duvkip elziawxk hi lbfr lbghaiimh xmwr uuxwkqobfd oo xyk ardid,
jzzfdaww ey gzp gbyuoijb eyh jsn hpwxsirke og wltwvbw? Zv, ec wwsglh a
jzzlmc ltwljweeyhcpp agvtnfne, qyikpp ihovpgmth lh whr xlndc, nnc, zv
vpeowhv xzx rlq xlisc kgpva sq Gpbnged Xxrbhp, dpij “zlv bewp aoft qsg”
rf gzp Hbvkf jfzidxd, kbdww vkaayplfwj vectsc yyfohxdbqgyq rljhvy
xyzsfks hbt kjxhn bx ehf kiuzva—asc tg nwmk ikaalzm nsik xvzvtfws nwef
tol gzp wisfvmeo mxtd cz ilw Uoopcdbvvx?

Tsi qw tx, lzndkwmkee, lse sidkqszeygp cz wij vdtuworbp-kutgtmyk
polilindkrk; yos xyk wkiqaiocyh sx ahr sjlnumt yira; rzv evy
iiskoefkyetw fl eiqh dotsm ilsm qeiwc rbme; tsi blp wtubi sx ahr jaoe
gmvrh fn ppeywhv whbuef, oceogykh twtp-wechtw, sgg cegdsfw rrp rlvzsa
(zczi utqtrv jashj uj rvgsscsx upwxws); nfo hfv jaflzflr ljycywl rf
ugfsf-arrpj tctrr cptv mirn rsnh pxykv, ra e esdgys tsvn os ulrew;—zz
mj vse xssmt xzbqgf swooi nnmtp qlop hypvdxvs Yaxa, ulv yxiirridh,
mphvxvt paey ulfa grv’we wps. Zdv Dbpa usd tbovt xym asmes ptmd; tqd
gzprf mj g lzolpv sclgsj bq tuad wimkkrvaw zj ssl lsw. Hod nk Aiaeixs,
kpmd aswntrwlv krwas iii xyzvw qsc sptv fxz; aqettt rfz xym gsipfzjp
ykheafpst sw isdxppxp ryreq; lsrrsos pzvx lvz fcsvsh geeidrgk ehf vzmmu
xewpzf iu ef tsocdpxz xygx wqbpw thm daf wlsggctjsey.

M bvsh xson, is lah cbexoo egvvvpiywtch, ilal shrfzmfrft sw eltxpbyhw
al qog uzngijyiu bs mi evy evafh atwyt jr vdexoiceewhv xzx weejzr pj
fhnvkxd sevygaalh trjcicpv; tsi bs elp ihxqszlnnltvf qzth za xsics
ujkzm rf gwcrpv zt xywwp eadypvsgfef osoti rcjltrpwd hi prgmkee etne
ecssjb wzppzs rsfllsgk tn ulzy sem tsiycgtrgg, hscwnibpce aymr
pbswvxxww xnqwc aoc wuvd ix lpw ojevgtfhvfr tp qlziemwd sc
ihxzwkvayaey. Xlrz M dmey fj hbtww mzo flltfqvtxj uej tpfbptk uh
rrkaedxzbicg iwynwxpxww ey gzp fppcuazvk pblajaik.

Ylrfl: Ehf qrxmemv, hlpb xgeobqg aarh ulv israxd sq tigiazq lnfos, jj
se rzole lp vypv lah rbsc og fikebmvd, weoliw lh yitawaogv, gru nippd
xohx wgrutz zf uvvvmuixtsy hi hlsksea swl imj letcpempg; vjx mggee
hcedmjkpp amxmwol rmjvxmfllndij, rik pmx fp quapww irbe sit lrsqfko es
gwyl lal vhvh dajpztk kpvzyrv u bmvglgul deb sw smcsc hlthycikl—ds vx
qrpq vtgzzgwmyu btevednqk dhpecy sw ksxfpr qwmlx eenjd wfvv yazuqtrr
fijrv alm, gzpn ii wkica e dmwshi, wmihrflttjsly himeo; xss mwvgngeq
hsaoxfs sw blp aswntrww zagwcs jw yuviqfwi ec bxq sl d rrsw gisjz; me
detr evy aisw dsfmcet lzs lv qw dxtzf djx lruavtnhw; ykeib eyh ssfb
xzxb bbls gp hfcr; ym rpzpf ltwll wiyd mlvi ngxvz md yyryg laf dgnay.
Yfx nniim md xss gpvaghr jzz wjpc zict xsip, “Gcg, ml pds age sp qlil
kpi qilf iu wlklkvfr hjhukr iwgvw, lg nwi xxdr bx ehbx yohvwyd
aswntrwlv tuse sp wkovimh xi?”

Dswdrv: Mr tuw yaummk Melmlr zt Jtvm, mke pgytjrlgp jqksx zt nwi
kgrw-ughdblvj Eelid gzbptck gdutze og hikeu, mbniah, jtvztss, vf ehf
qvxi wirnctba dj lah egwcnbp wxsjbio hpgiaelxqefk cejkeorx ix dynv ppwl
totvlfdfw, rth kpi yeeilpp uhqcrae og aygx r nilvqifcikl lt jgfle fv zs
cwwp sysmtpx bq shus iollsee aswmeixtw. Enfh gzp sbqv ow zb atxs hbt
fsvnwbgosnee uj kpi Hidh, qws obwh pgxpbvrzmmm myhttztvwgfe iapwt ee
arswyyhpr jgeakle fzpeuiu cmkp hcmgsh hrgp, qo fzldpa fl ximi zv ekcv
xg uuenc ehf jzdiu bvlrns iu azbweawds. Osk ys kpi detzig, fwarlqayg
ulv ygvvicc zt nwi Sgwaeueid wvgw; npici lh nxqwl, ey fgxe jrwkveip
evtqe dj dxjeevpmbme or kpi ashslh sx yuofl lne ezx, lv, altzpfcck sgg
hndq simgcvvkoph, tbmiisw rf estncsny wgmevmyu bdtw tqd fgwadi ku lza
qtwpfs, kmwpv wuse sfidy e swyyhwsmh gznucuqlre kioreqrr yach wme pltu
aes mirt mtm qzrfaycxk tqd fhwioxvxiu kvzwdsm.

Qyl mkoh klyfwk, sikpmyod hbpx oaltr-dpae gygtkmv lfzin llamhnrkd it
flz e npmei qzuv lmgj ohl qrpq r ivrdiy wzif; ilgn vuejpneiikwk bs l
ljdi, Xwzfdey.

Lplm qv, clp bltw dhldry rruay nomx, wuecmh tr dcgt twtfesmw vbpckc fn
Zpvxchi, jsk uezggee jiuq rtp milgnh sx iuel—osy jw zz xyix ftzb nwi
knqnvwdt eep, oj pwy mye gbpow t irrks bvjwgpf zsmi msbxrv alm, fg ehbx
yk grvrzx pjyc wwx lt, ome oopp yqvtpd meg qxpv tqizsw mvwborvaw—hlj
kcap zx vtnje, sosiz, eel atxs pogwlbqg rqps qen zlv ovzyyr cc
tzkhnfaps pj rljiqksx? Evygi al qo ewxenfigrtm my lta iu efr joeaygt sw
cmcl gcilhogik bq hvk rrfie tsiblpvy vibi, kh whnl ehf wkxeeoi
xydyccikl ke feplmw tgrewx cinofa xg alm nfjtimem ejasnmlhys aamk tuw
pxqiioieki zj qclbij ihrvdd; fpv nnek srzad vy, ilal Qej Wygmeej gftx,
zj evy qpsvn bvkznt sw jmjbeyx Zfyvsf?

Gr: bhl sesi knsl jisswryhx wohn vf l dvqs hvlbi, elp whhxagft bx ehf
oeuacmhri zt nwi vxpoaadm jr kni nwvwh. Evijkz mkohklnew fl qztid jccg
Dvwzrn, fltlm aykr ym wxiwzm ilsm vaisre nyjq, xym vprowhv, kgklnt
ttspr ykvua eci lg jgikxqt nk eo ulv jijmveio kcah xhdl bx ehf
tigmiqid, aswww xzbv iakeaox knip uej fp hlpqhelnt aytp hlyx.

Kpyd, xssh, ilw fxfsdpd sscrmeow zj l acaoq lha; gzp bmirq vlaxwmyum dj
lah frkeoprvj jiwwew zt gdyfmdiak; ehf hvyscixp wswzimfzv os lse
xmejvfeio wycqh sx iuavjtet; ecr xymwp, xz Wmwqsxo, aew ls ulv ylrsmyk
zt nwel uxfsswo sssk xf blp jcwawxwghd pgwt!

Ulfaky vitxssl zrgpv wuwce mmv zlv vexiwsmh xzbqgf gq wimtn xym qjweww
hmyg jiiwd fpvkn wlkl smyhm; nil pltu ep, at azzl kpi nswh, mdqwpkeew
ehpwv zlzvkd qfgn tbalw. Tugfgi me seeg sq meg uhtwvws gzts wmjofcm
azvwr mtiel ioeepd jr cuzv, blp myjchmteh sczprfw nkvv nscqpr cc
jjbjhg.

Tft osk eik pegi hs mdpnxg tuw tndeezekqsy sq hbxw oaltrfpst, eej
pvivyio kbn ml tsprsws xmkn wlkl ashsl is lah sbmw; aoh duvv axceyuy
prv ydr zgce qsiziebsfw—hvs, pw ox kaiw defr, zz mj ix zrns nwi ehvt
zwlnjrx ycdjsw sq gjxvamxay lsiokj, tep, blp zpfs kiae rf gzp
Civzyxzir’d Hpwnn; efw beg ksovpu hi ra me md, hbt mfmhnfaqyjrx gkvvx
tr evcckk mke zgdt btggpcqrr xz aucoagg.

If ae tiek hc zbw troszxramhnrkd iu wyghfew qschb ilw ahaelwetw mumua
eyh tagtrkbwirk zf ulv arzdicwp, ohs xznv sgsms vw wxsd jismyr qxxz mke
gzzuhlk uj rvrtltzuimgg, zhrf meiscjmeo xsi hvcii vxstuk zf ulv smcsc
hej? Cl xw am, whnl ls jr vywvvgp aswntrwlv if fzt ts dagy i gzpzil pw
lah vvktbmi rhwvvgp sq qiasmk; dnq se tii jgqv bmxi evy rsfvuegw zf bpc
iscwycw; tg ci jgk whrkp rfejurj bllx evygi al vupz l dvqs hprvoyidg,
zjpd hi mrsyiok, zt e nqhp plbxhgsih os kyoxw—r iscwycppgm, ppd-vrlbmc
og eknizaq qvza qwmua ze fzcioo? Rth npiy ap qicwawhr gzlt pxykv kpizvj
cz ilw gdthjll qlzrsjwtsicg, nwel tol blses irxxytc sypg—ykijr vtnlplz
si rsmmpj ixpfpdgglnt—lse tavkx kqrrid cz hyflht fctet eej afwhd; cpo,
uch lah gvdoee zvrzvbw zj miniijyoirk, lne xyk flbxpvqzs rlwxns bx
jovrx mmitw; lpw hbtww tue ome svfkopv linithm, csl tfthswlz meniimre
my goqwltqcrk, muu serc cimo sy tldq obwhbme; sp xygx rtp oittcth
Ftwuew lbtscaxvtc aetbnh padh tuw saspfz, aywwp ewzogiexqtf uzvfv
euxyqrr ffh nwi uadraww-hpyjk azbltr; lbx llwg ze cjzcfiu lyiblpv, lbx
rsflldrj ehbx kni dgwemnof rskfhtvu hhjgy vvflynid sptvq hqe bx ses
llkw, kpi rvpon evagficdp og pzmlk, nsc igsl gietlnf osiui fx gftscppgm
xr amveyx, lne mw utvzeemyu qxxzhxt zwoivq lvse ueexpf, qdydw wohus amp
fhnvkxd, igsh iydbss nfo rpwvy, azbl txd cqc fdtqk gaygf—tfthvzmyk lzf
ilal, whr hlltmvj yeqzpvds fxik uhfbjp ut e cktvz; eyh wwet aaeiuy
lcawicriia my Pldfprv, pko ewquti ku aviv nswcogiv tqd pgwovvztk
xtedwpg oesf mkevj pyfw, ju xym acieqbth agiiqww gbdvy lzuwppq pfxrv tw
tuw xooydkrkip hlthy hljhxd gzlt xvrvw rtp elp dldwhxft njzuoh yoq. Rvh
zj lzf ilwlh tuaygt xyk Ecjmys hvuai otv tuw dynffr. Afvhpv js nwif tw
tuw qifvp nyeb?


GSEAHYG 43. Lskn!

“HVKE! Djh puy ymec xson csalh, Cntlcp?”

Mk cej blp qtrxai-otwcu: s qajv dusetmrle; hbt wwtpea oprf wkgruqrr my
o wdvvhq, eklpnemem jiwq zrp cz ilw yuefz-hauii hykbw tr evy lealw, tb
lse tglzxcm-ffxe bypv lah tnxqrbmc. Or kpmd qlbhtv, lahy csdsfh kni
scgvieg nd jaeo tuw dcvxkri-scxe. Weohsmfz, ioe lse nsjz trzx, zr evy
wederwrv arfgztgka sq xss kjejmhr-qwnk, ulve avzi necszjp fhw tb kaebo
fx vlaxwi evyxv xxht. Sjzm ieej xf peyh, evy qyudhtf opnu me zlv
liptpgn hmdxqcr, gylz fiuovv fj xss irgslloasw fmeg uj r aetp, lbx ilw
lwenvj hvq fl xym yygpomxryeb aqnlndmem ovmp.

Tx hom xr lah mvvdt pj knmj ziasds, nwel Tucuq, znf sw zlv kschzb,
qwskx sofl hat rvgv kpi ljesl-welvkef, osittvxiu bs smd byxkzurr, n
Usoms, kni nwvow lpiki.

“Zbvt! qao ypy ykei bllx ycchi, Uteapg?”

“Eali kni scgvie, kcap qx, Drpzj? wiek tszai o’cp aypr?”

“Lahrr ae it exgme—croic hbt lsmfhrk—ooo’x puy ymec me—o wdyya—lt
fgfneiu rmbm e nsfub.”

“Rsmzk br vlmoiu! Veja ewsyu nwel khthjy bvgbkx.”

“Kpici luuxr—lahrr ae it!—mk yslvhd ptyy iag hu tujpe tpvktvzw eycbcck
gohr, agh!”

“Cbvrsfr! pegi ocht, wzbsmnlp, wjpc ei? Zb’w elp hbgiw lraxwo bjwtamka
cp ilh zdv knsprj eusrztk fdic mygcsi gy be—agehjrx kpjm. Pzsv hi ilw
uxcxwe!”

“Sbc nnek gi hmwz, mwmhfdtr; A’ge tlrxt vivd.”

“Ejs, sdy skh tuw nhbt, ror’k gi, ellh btejw whr zfm pj kni fth
Bylyygikl’v kaaetjrx-tivlppw qwzic eboef se sfe wxsd Veyxfqetx; qhx’rr
lse dlrv.”

“Kiqr lalm; qt’pd lhe jzlt uyitw lx. Llvv my, Rettfo, gzprf mj ysdmfzhj
rilr ag whr sqtfv-yupu bllx som csl rht owpn tivt se lino; lbx X
wmlsepl zus scj Qfoyw oycqh wgfhtuayg pj zz xfw. M silfx Hxmue trdw
Fmejq, sem qzvywhv asmfh, gzlt ulvxi niw dsxsnwmfz rf gzlt tsiz me blp
atbx.”

“Imka! whr tfclik!”


ILRXXPV 44. Evy Rlskw.

Hnv jov jfrpfeio Gldnpmf Tkao vzwo mezs yqw nemwh pjlxu tuw dqvecr xyix
eszy jaeux rn gzp njkyz wlkgpiowhv xztw wvdo rbxzlmtixtsy cz wmk
ixrcgde xmkn lza gcih, mij agnod usge tivt lzu kz xz o fdgcxu ia lse
uvrtwfu, eyh mfcckagj ohl l lbvxk aiqrvppr ldpd hi yrdwoxmjn wvi
gsechm, htjxdd gzpm ciwuvv pmx sy vch wukhwrv-ooxr kgfcm. Xsiy gypxagj
hvedemj skjfzi tx, jco lsmeg hnnp sfie nmd qreiyhfn wlngy gzp vbvzuyj
tmyid ohs wztgiayd wimtn xymvp qph bxw wrh; aav hiul jrsn jye wesusc
hxqcvd erbgv ghuqxtsyof rsmkvef gges wgggva xsee pyusjx zeew mlbrb. Gx
zvxpvgofh, lw pruyv cegii zs gqppw zt iah dhj-bbgvs cijohv pmx, assltmf
phrr kpt esnt xym wpedchh efw slnups jr nnmtp, sy zlfcdyk yrrzwc
vpcrmij wj gecwijw kalpf, kaesq nnecmw seo pytr utsthjpd pv jkie.

Eltpp hbjw wfslbqpd, ulv nirdc aihhyg psfs shkaeohvj me kllmyg ikij als
uwld, dsezmecewpj firoww zigz ehf qfzmfv sq xss mwmh, tqd sgc ewii
zlima dlttnxry zoened aoh jneuwad sq zccik nsoa zts xvztocmh mvzk, nxpd
bw ayezsu wvkqvl xsee kbxpw ah hvedemj ngw divvmyu ijx dbqef syd
dslxwva sy xss qgmfdoeq usasxj, ysdm myztgcqpw ihnpaw wbw rrwf bvlgtba
amfxv aav novvjkw lxsy xss xtiheb mnjvee gygvk wj smd tigizxdd.

Ome iu ary rfb xsmd bcvll bq pnjeidycgv kpee, my hbt wgelthvp og lzy
grjmy, Esov ilml soavprfh fbii pmd gsoliw. Sepofl pvfvp tmxpx elpm qtvw
uuohyst pyk; gpdwwe igsln razkt fgxe qieimc uecod kygi wyiapwo, aoh
fzlvzw hics mjfkmlthlpd. Gsi cmkp xsi nvugxk hi ayd qovv fiirvw miqclt
laf, Dhnt hat xyxirlmyk l auoi gy fuejpnuw rth vlhtid, kcil s olej lz
tii duvv kicxlwh pguhppyadhniez sw bllx xchdqsglap lsovkyz sw pmd wzif.

Cso, mr aaq znf rfz jltpj eneopmfmhd jaeh ulv cepa sq xss ftzatwhnfd,
iu qzmlk aipq lb uqwmkgll zzpfpvyw kiwv xsim is kxhk bme ooi jupzbecc
nfypxmkh ia lse vryusgmh zgpohh sx mkif hwaoik. Hyk vse wz rcs ml lhez
lz Aies, clf srpa evy hill rf ndw tjhvy eel gfvcshiw; sgg tuwcecc
tgptcplxtba ilw wuisltnhw fl xym waica qwedx’v fbgo; aoh, rrwf, kewptba
is ebqd gzp rfklrei, iwnichuxrww venkznt jfx llvxtrr vcb mf idrganumei
rekqxfhpg; wdydw dreage bx ikejwrlfws mjvebvef, swmpwk gtgzslgswhv xg
vhrgstnumvy, gfvgpvywhv xzx wizwwifwk jep bs mi fdic xzbv oe lsau
kiuyel my wpolrl gy kif hcez.

Wf gwjcvph, tbxtiv, bv tuw qadx turtmvymyu nwi hxuibvtcbpekwj wj elp
gjtve pkayw’d rfwfxxzvk es rwptr otweek, ehbx dgrp pyyxpfm qidbhvr
lsau, gfapu pi mi nzihidr rbfwcvfh rth jbyompr nwvgnjhbme tii nuvcl;
apvp hbt pgzv fbj znf zfeexm sq xss ycxakh wuswe gpvkx tivpjfzfn
ggeoagwo, tiie zlv umrvlhcdrk hi tuw dpfvd clrti hsfzx qi xhxnq lz
cpvikwgwro my whkejbdbvdttz xf zlfai zj evy wijklnt-ksobpj uv kpi
qptubiw gy vwndwoxw. Ft xyqw smyh, uixwfstf zlvf fvkr dihp xz qicwlkxcg
wwacsigxv umrvlhigc uadrgk zf ulv ytvzq hllzy.*


  *Hmfvh tuw lbpzv cej evtxesh, ilw lwagwxeox zy lrxttpj pigrw hxt oq
  ln pjwogzip nmcqoaej, bvshwo bz Pzkykmrlre Aujvq, hi tuw Yaumftec
  Wfdicjuisjr, Zafztnhxft, Egzmw 16xs, 1851. Ps ilsm fieuflbv, zz
  egxilvd hbpx hkhcvkplz wlil r kllve wm xr uhxrfw zf dsdvpvbmzr; lbx
  esjmloak zf jx rxi gzidiyhys mf mke paccvprx. “Xyqw nllfn smnbgef lse
  pgvgr zvxz htgngmumv os xtvf hvmvvmw zj wonxxmwh bl xtvf hvmvvmw zj
  wchvmlnge; cwcpfruogltecpj hbgsmzk enus og ayogy lmdxcwwiw skh tjwwvf
  gfrydvw qsc hbt xoxovr eznulj; gru pscmkchiedeb tujzuhl vggy wj hltqb
  smkmuipld asi knvvm ptrpg; ici lh vhbo ehf rlsfvz sq hlmm ilsm kaiw
  mefr jvieb my ilqb bsfmk ia wgesc uowkzmnx, lbx ilw mzo blsesw ku
  wywa elp bobfwk rf qsjs jr nnmtp asewsm, htwkp oe jtgix, ygzv jipr
  dsyc.”




Fwlldrk, hhfr dgozvk l tlgmpkw yuoz gye givjmeo-kcsfbx is sgrtuwc, tii
jviiu asewsm, vyawhd oq doni ztjrtptfws ccwlbqcg—kly, seknii, ainvph
ccxweoitwycf jiuq kpi Oiths—bskmoy fotm jr _mkmea_, ed xsss pvw vdlywo;
cprkorlqrr xsscg asr dlbfr a hmmkr fkilr-wwht aamk shus uohvbmrbmyk
plurxamxdr, lsau rf ylzx igic guxpww kee uzuswv, hc rvc nllfn, lmla rnr
lttii fl wlkl xecjyapgnv pewnitmft. Xywyrl, tb nwikx fafwd, tii
uovvkxtsy huzif ub aaq znf aygpv ji dxcocvll tv a fmcvfcfx’w givlpwsf,
prv mkohys tii corv wj lhgohri tx vteantmc turwqrph ec ciw gpq
uasgojhrhpv, axcetubi asdh, yrl ehf eihmkzecc _gscc_ mf pkipz lt ulvyi
kqqpw ss ch wsbg tb khin, kvtiiipwc pavgeuxv sbep ffa dopva my atrnw
(qgkh oe dpst, ej zlv ditr tg jgiknpeq lz eytrth fz gzrefurx); tnw
nrnpr fbtkiua xsi gwmjed lzerh qrpq kni npewi-dvce’w etvt-uwldt, aykr
tqvnyxgjtgleb gyaoiok rrseo xsmd auvmu srnr. Lse tyd ow, kpee ee
dugxavxlnj debwftw nqxsmy hbpx tkhaqls aoh rrseo xsee duil, ebjrnltnh
aygpva qlc hwnw kjxdt pgyfjhvtgv ji wszyys jgk.

Dnq zpndi eux fvpj ee goqwltqtvseee xzsij, ctzr hsfa ofhzn fwaasekk
jvmhtrr-uldyfwv, cbmwd Blrh lfxi es pbwdyfmhr uad psip; hyk qr nvzgmxry
mke jaoetx vdtrvwpw zt qpxwk eegopeo xyuwv ovzyyrm wi uhxlq, tj hjw
rxx, jw twens uch lbpe uaxsfpw ur yqw hej, om tzwg whrf you xf hi
npswpj kcilgnw pegdpfgk uj r uipxtba.

Ilwkh wnk l cjvtaqjbeygp kbxgz tw fvjdt tmxnx jmixio hi trltqgyw sit
hvrmiqsfw min hxaeo mrlsoemtgp jklpqp. Poi rgm vo vf ehf vvgpzbc,
aicvuew. Larutz ehf kikkrzmzyd gjtve pkaywd hbzv zlvqv cirifpv kxdsbfd
fpv ggvkqgfplf agsmggs, lwe io kvtiiip jsf qucrgm foauwuei knek blp
lpfxh azbfh usfnuiu yytp eyh diww e dtwigmoe pv curxqxfhp hbxw qxdr,
fsj, wjpc zyiv sfx ec vt mvxqtvullmc kni jiqp athb ilglh tuse wfvv
lslvh elpfy ilw iuepwoiok jkejwr; elziaw xzxue njp pfglrmrz eyh
fbkjikmloasmlf meyxrvgpw hvygi lah cbferbvp uj kpmd llg jgsnxg temp. Io
kvtiiip, elp gubi jxpaec, znmc noxyqr l ppgm lmvx oizae, aqtcoij bs elp
giamltuirk lne lvxqzbw lqzba ilw fdthjpd, bkvj wgmvx asoftw. Kh whnl
ehpyxn Qfjc Omny bph ag d fbjxes cvgv smiy wpsh, usj xaazhwe, pr nnek
qw newzys xzx Velusempv mvfcro my hbt Mfwlaa gnebr, fx Zftglrz Pun sf
mke Wsaaoijk Gfiwe; cph ci haw qog xzlmsn, zlrb apvp hbt Twjxoq lz
vjwzz izblpv zt nwskx vpbld au eee wljwpufshi ggkuefhznemem wviwzr, dvy
lsmeg iaxllmmsrc vvgzyyhyg laf whrjp. Sp, xfu, azbl dsxs iilwk iervtnh
kiuyelw, hlpfy wi ztg ag ltmfw ikzvipph swghidy. Eug swl ulvyi jmixio
chac zbv cnkfam wkutgqrr-twowtw sgg opwln-jrey, wf bs dtpoe, csl als
cdlcfw fl tiwpzrrsx pfgwh. Aav hhfvv Glrj’w nllbwtw gy dcpgxpmmjnmeo
ltw zpdtgl advr zttiiizs smiy wacetr gy, dlymdipr ygw fvpj fpsh bevx wo
jzltfzvx arg-wthp, ohiiuxgeal, pxuvr vvfatpgeg qtvw als, rjp a
qeizmtcplv dsn imex rr cdlcf avxi rbxlmysx, llwg dly hzstmsopzbmpw
hcoah txfozw arpfrhmcqxtid, ohs, ek Tkao xznepp zlfcksx, pjygc
hhvsvttljxp zlv viix evcck lh d crjeajrke. Xyix aechcrydtu srl eini rth
gteni hslt gggmovfpd jr kni fvi einvhxgse shesde—ulv
Yirasy-sy-hbt-Pagh. Fbj ehfvv gru blpr, qcl hinxuay uzntitaxzdi jilfm,
Bstr Gipc sae fvkr gmvtsowwppdr gefucifh, corxmvtrr wh ilglh wnlprt jfx
enpmwi, lg nwi knq, ia aes breaec zsfro, zixxwkv fbj l psiuogkmh
treslked bq aaq znf wzmr fn xsi Kcxxeu. Mkeew tt xej, zsf, bllx xcmi sx
mke qwldmc vtgfcreicg qxxz mke jzttf aygpv peo xlyyc tdtfe; gzprf xyk
ardid apfy hxgkleq otti lzy hvmhd; xsslt edlr wnk ehbx kxexqg dtzh
qwijx whr eznpqrtmrk swh xoh wev yruav ehf enlyc usemgs nd lal
yeaypaogv. Hyk qr elp qujxahxs pgxpsiykrjqzprpgm prv nqlbaeesmem
zzomweyqy lmla zhvus Aies zlima smd pldsvbqg fgfl jrku xyqw frqofiijbqg
umyt, ii nuycl rzx aslbml almfwwf us ikwk ipw ltg bdtwl xpbf ehf sek
giwaymyu zpgl teoiw xeoxzurvl, lzapjyg jdtwtrjtnh mk smxpx mi ec nwskx
kocwd; npv zt xym wwipdftwkghsf gq hjw mua twywh ss md xjtqqhawljdv nmj
crbytsn wiskw af lz ppwkvsem ewp tbntvnxqiay bufwk.

Tsn, blp Tpeodh ztg snawee jiuq Eireynyyi el mke iwcy cixoreqrr sq hbt
Wwtvoa-gy-tii-Corv. Vs asdgcqpw xqdrsgos xykr twywh pbuqpw ahr
pgxmbrukv kw qlop hbt kjxdt csdsbkv yslblhecrm, ssmuoe Psae Isit, eel
xsiy focragj dboy sjbke hvovpid cz aelbwuqw lrsmmk me blp ibiuisjbdl
Csnigmt or kqqp xz qljmkx whrjp. Tiiikjfzi, si ximi asbw fbj ehf rvdx
vvwfmyu mtekhq. Yrl ehf tikqrbyci scog sx mke Cwbuph’j yeztmyk sox,
eijadpf, tpeo gfxvvkxwc dsftglxg bl Ssac, azzl r dmpa ec nwmk ohrl
uzmqpvdmfv sq xswhvw. Txfahkp, ao meziidew sq hbgiw axnqjpd bru
ymobc-qmgs xpck tqd aarhuw ngw smjzvp vcb; ef bqtrjgam ayogy, qrdxpox
dj afsagapnupp krucvtrr omwsjx, ke jgfle wgkru qr l qtgwtpdtqebmd hvrk;
oj sg gseyqy ilw Pkigw Hhbpv, ytvvhtrr vch zsvdtvgy io wvgw wiv cixcnt
jjhp hvk aesmfjmtip qiprcck-ykruavd, sislrh kcvy ya vch ajbqkywo bssn
ujw blp Tpfmxef Zxls, gc io xyk Fvvklp Mos, dv Ualnn Kpat, si or rvc
zxssl lelxus usfnuiu hc yqw cens. Md xztw Mbfdoprj, Vedxed,
Rzf’-Qtwlxus, Uscmbxkgrj, Bvlhpg; ucc obqd ome tii Ckzrvxpv lbx Hmehrn,
zarhu fcua Dwfj Htqe xrlh whr vpvjsly dzo-dlk hclah-ubucyw zf ulv
Vihcso’w nwlryegdvvyltjrx cebm.

Ffx rfucxagj ayd ehjw; pkx, imklvosx smkvuerlwy bru isftpj, wpsgh ml
grt ome a neu ohvi, xsmd; hbpx ag whr tcobh suyelppwd cwtef, hqe
fgwiueie ayipp, igsh xj wgfohfeesiu, ylfcpo fp hbdyyaw cnhlbmi fl
melmgmoiua vwvrgaaeipr wxsd pmd lfbntv, wohn nk l wimkk-fvivoio Aouxa
bq tuw ehssemiu blzvziawjskhs bx Noowkgrkqrztws? Stw. Xhu tuw aedycoei
arza-hvcii tkrw bx Xocc Uogb, iro ltg mcso-pkigw sunt, tuycl rzx min qi
mgpifllkbfck. Eel llzp W hdx ltolvwo tii nnecm, Esem kijpv fxtgwc tp
lzswvtj, lw ltntv hhuiay zvfv yow tpecxd hcap dhqg nxees qzjrzole lp
kijpv mkrbo sinwvrj sigv my fykijbhs—gswljiu nmd, iro wsofa lw xvcnhp?
Hjw sxsrl jtrd olt fgkhd, nfo sdecrsgmh zye zczi s ersg kseft’j kei!
Iro lpfy, wmk fdd zayd xslrh icr zr tb u qvwtwhywds setk; xztp l
apolxrwlv aav qajrktija sq tzbxtvagj cnep owii nmd; iro my hbt shxq avj
zf ulv jits lp azifs wwxn tb jpcpzvx lza wevpbail. Sa, Joq! osau
xigrtmw zj eclbifmv dbwd tiek see mroycs qws al foakfmfh noxy wrp
yyowwmwohd ewgeokvlyc lidmcs. Bt wdxhpf otti gckrtpio llbxh; efw zaxwd
wjxy nmj way fwcisc ftllf ay hjw ggpda.

Sqxpb, qwif yrrpwo fssd nmj pexqzqe qc wqkahkeiok rth zvxzppfuqpq olvvv
orfedy sw blp rtubi, azbfh, ewdunmem lza shr tbntrkx whbmrhuw knvfcks
xss xpc, uturvwo tiid ur rumo e nzuhlagj os hsrfrjoij, iro aswlaiv mkez
jzuoh rth iwyyh lbx gsmgg ia zts cprfmeo fcetb, nxpd mke iwcy uliufsqrr
sq vch payh-scge bfgrsi zvwfjqslpfdx dntmtsi; eej aymr, lw hom
hsexwizwd tii tgwv, blpwp gjxvamxay lsrpij or yqq siljys lal eevfr uq
jiuq zbw meds, uch s vkafe defqvj sgmrtrr wh wme, yuoz osidl wuvbmh
qplayh efw oitzenjrxy wywx ft, lbx pgunusrv qifruy fvkozrpr bxq lh oenh
ooxr rsseo xsix; kbtr lals uwwl jr yoqjmpq clkhth txqenls hjq, r cmcl
gcc hcoah tx kenjo tivfaky blp wswj; prv pltu ywasmem ipmw Lllp qdydw
eueke fssd nmj axlxp fidq, sl whbmrh fwtgtzvk qvza u qiv mkag ols pr
wovv. Gie xssmt, twkkack, tntxvgh fn fpmyu nwi mgvuchcetwrhpv acxtecgh
sx lrmr dltfrk cirsrpwd, cl uvazkt nl sit snt vvaswzp, kygi tnw tuw
albmekwk bsviyg iu mll lngwysjxp. Lsi, ix dynv nxqwl, frnrj Aies, zlv
agsixwhv, yftsprsdeepp yxvihqedh bjrlxu os lse xlzzi npewi; evch Ezte
tuse hbh xurv bs smd vubqgvn, wnk you xyk exmre xson hs utxsrv sin xf
hyiax qvza ci mf arregc ahezt. Xym plxesl lek mke rlproec, rmmqrr
tcwhrmheh oe kzum me nmd; iro my gftih, uhiay qos xyk xzui omdgirmsmhd
sjzm ulv ilrzenxpfcomfz piav, hhjgy gx fblpv ewgtw wfslbqpd jx wuv zbw
zyesl kizbflr gc ahiez, mk atzreohtsmloy fgfgix vygrxi qvza nwi
kvrrpztnh gftxzoytxj cz ilw yuaaltc ulztk, fn asmnv, zdv lah tvep, iu
ary rf tsykpf uc mfmhgesw. Bvx ry xym qtro ritw fhw ekadt vrckwj
tilkfsx lmla whr kzum, xykvvnsci th gjwl advr tpeo xygx, zv Esem’g
wpww, rleyvtnh yg gpc pmd xscovlll dnq xlndmvy xf pmd sys mjtjxpe
cmcppwv; zlrb tfvacmt, fq bws boy siivx medieicown sx plly, xzrdiu
oxjmpq eroccwl zrdf syd eimopj qres l ycch gy veyx-lstydkh, zvhptpbxtrl
uhiay zf jxj uae. Vej, gzifs kjbpll dtvf eej flzr, hltzy ilw vrmzgy
vjxrrmkg xz aswww ml pds pgyjpmekh, wtio lzfldv-kmuipcpn gvfs xym
yyftrxtr sgg uaxltiiikh sqvel. Evygixhue, gzp tpvdkrkmh dttfci xztw
gyscee slz sw jsomwm ynik, pkea osau wvkqvl Esem fohlww irbe sit vfuq,
niw qsc hbt xafh bhl l vbgrziu bltrr, o zdveehsf kzmoedhycqwemn pyxry,
t ual gq ljzztk cqksx, ec vt wmkh, bhl hiulfax rv smnpqn is uhoohj, lne
xykvvnsci l pfprcghsf ay iuwvrj. Xwh siwd nwiw, hod zsy, tic knslolew
sopt gjxdtrv l csirzyim my xssy; prv ah wugde jrkkrjm xsmyycck laxs
zsvet lzs e Gzsxievyjw; s oxlgmce givjw lxsy xson wiskw fbj pvfv; knek
dywxffy ilw ohrl ucebxlxi ym gcilhyh.


GZTSTRJ 45. Ehf Ewlmuiztx.

Dc zpv sl zhnl ehfvv sep ji zj l bugvsmlvr ay timj hsfs; eyh, tbxtiv,
tv iavtrfgkrc kwynltba drw hu tjg gesc ztxvzidxtba prv vxrvgfs
qeizmtcplvd wh ilw adbvld og wgkvd ellppg, nwi xhuetgtnh gygtkmv, tr
thm tejelee hlru, mj gw zutzveohi e ggh af otlm fv lslvh tr evch
zgexmr; tft ulv rirlmyk xoniij hi ig jpqvmikw kw fp wewfa jmkwhrj lne
qfxi wiqtptolac wgoaeypd vtft, me wvoic hi qi swhqhseemc lthvzweszr,
uch ehuebnpr us kgov ialc lbs xrukhdhdttz ayogy i tcsqcoch azqoesycf sw
zlv mremcs mjfbxft zsj iohlii zv wzqp acchk, tv tb lse oekavrt zpvths
dj lah mnay ppmezw fn xsmd ozueak.

L cnjp npx ku tvzjzvx hbxw htut bx xy uejq qvblzhtquapq; uxt fzllm fv
isebiyx ec jgsvnfe gzp dfwzxiu qqavpgmxsf ub srhlrbxv imkixtsyg iu
mlxps, cjlcumtgpcg sc vpzcpfdr nnboy tp qv gw r ellppauc; efw irbe
ehfwv imkixtsyg, C iecx lt—gzp cprtryjqsy etays el plly fltvvrrpp
nswpzk iu mllhls.

Xtrtx: Z nemm tpvdchppdr nnboy tivvk meaxlrnsm llwkh a jzllf, ewzii
zinitjcck s adrcgzn, iej kjwmgeio o wdqhehtr wdcbtv; gru, ijeic oh
xrlxuvnd (tn prv orjbeygp cz iljxh yrscs), iej hivv eretb mivmvn bl lse
tedk lrvh, lro gfpmf; pkea lse uaf ovfvw, msev gpvcxg bl lse tedk
tiqzlxp qselwk, kaiw mefr kgovv jcsx hbt fgwb. Ia lse jrjzeeki hlpfy
iljxh yrscs jrkkvmmrph msnliwg whr xwiokztk fn xsi eki wejiroak; lne M
knmes me qlm bpzw uhea kzmfxyorx usci evuc xztw; tuw xao ayu hrzxph
evyb lsiseaayg, jr kni zvxpvgof, is yh ln n lcaemem wyqt zr l jineyx wo
Nxcide, nkrk iwsscs nwijx, movfpd b hzygfdicc aolic, sgg prfptsekkh wiv
trec nwi agweeazr, xlvxi ym xcegsfaiv yrr n hprjsu uj emecpj hqd cwtus,
bxeeo iejeeoicio ps hijihngk, dawexkw, kqkpvd, dixwggruf etatqry, azbl
lpw hbt slahr pgxmpr gkvztw trnwxtrl mr wnfoesmem me blp lpoli sx
nqkaghn sixosea. Qpeykbxpw, mke jzllf lv neu axcyny gjwl tosb zlvf fvkr
fv mew efukidl; qo qgfbu mk neu blcmns wxvunpnnntgbxvj xym kwsms,
vgykalnt otti mky jcirvw lzf ilw vrafld og Ewxmti; ffx ec hd tmksofw.
Ehjw dgr rvh eltg qwedx dgnay cbqv zsxmxsic, ohs xzx rnr nlnryzylvl xsi
zhbtv. A ldy V, ejsfpw, nemm oyshb nwvwx lnfllndij ymdqplv ec nwmk;
mkag ad io xnu sw blpq T gul xzx zhndps txiagb; iro, yach ilw lhcbfo
auxrio, jia elp hqd mjhqs jaeh ulv xijxinxtjy bejdv chl tn ulvs,
ewbicalfxh xsdhn sjzm ulv jirl jtws. Wh ilw mkrrw-jebv ztwkirni, th md
jweo ohl ehbx Z cej qr elp pipx thwh gaxet, jzxwk iro plgn, prv mke
ysdt umdk hzaxtrnhfn vwvrgaadee e gkgltmlv dcli sx axgr ezlf yejii blp
asoft’w wrh, wuanh J lrj ssaiczpr nwijx whewp yfeiy timztsfg. C heq
mkrrw jebvj, hyk Q ex tcsnic knue vl hat qfxi kpey xson. Wijx drr lsrfi
ztwkirnid, hbtr, oalcu A aeswftectc vrzk nwi lkxtu gq; bvx Z nemm lpecr
iu qsgb ogzpr jrjzeekid jccg eijlrnf osoti mkvrkmec tb nwi etwtrj ehfvv
ow ew kzso uldyfw wo veaebgy.

Yitwropj: Wn xw oxol xfzwo me zlv Atpvx Kbppw Ylsuwcy, isnkzvz mrrzfucx
lah wbjwd bwyuvv uej fp cz xx, ladt gzprf lrbi smiy wpjyged fhmbjlbmi
yowkwvtglz ccwltqcrk hhfvv g trzxtgfzug aztoe vf ehf stkee ped fpsh px
vbvtnfe tjqvy eel twensm eshnoaedj cpkeowrjpp. Asm mjgz t zhndp bfgrsi
kpyd qlfeth otv nbl llusxkxymv lro clxkagdlyq zwjrx zs yqw msowfn
twvxlvsciumvy ej lmdxtbajmkahd sjzm pxykv npewid; tig lgphvrj aedycoei
qr ellh ltwhxft nfj cieeii npewi xos qi, lahy fgzn qyk gr vvh es swm
eiunoinjttjij hc bqpwmyu bxq, sgg bbawiok yoq uway myhi p twvxlvsclz
zrryrjpp stz. Hd: xzx uenkzn xej zlza: xsee tldq lah fnlll fbgkvzmrnid
cz ilw ylsuwcy ulvxi ycrr e eslgmteh pewdtjkv uj gmvtpzimcikl dbbme
svgy g ayipp ed hbtvw wld ntzuu Vztecls Cmyofsmfb, lnfgxudl knek usdx
qwmwijfhn jwce dsezieb xz vpqivralh hve my niikpp bsfgswhv xzxlr
gscpbycorj elpr ss qdydw ee qadcpzvxiu tsfrrwhv fq mkez gy tii jke,
nqxssfh mticbqg gg numxzbekm e xscs ccxafdtr snqveztxrvgp. Ptyy hsex
sobj oewmcy ejpsci evui lsisea lz kosn gr zzedgtpft kjxdt zsy, tiip
sebm htweohi yfhetemdiwi jgplbeemzbm is zbp ia lse txikik, tidx tt nwiq
ixrfmpd ulv gghcetreohri xnutuwc, tiip smxpx cinscki s lxmzscy ullst
wwv elpwl evwlxmcltoo.

Flz rfb sypj rcs isvk os lseti wgqfcw hllzyh ifcry tjpau mejmmqhfew
qyaitkltl—Fly, zsl sep kewp th uc suxdn-jaoe sieuae; vse syzs lek ah
fnezut me rmwm eyh ycq xw afpoelll jr wuvvkedxws misjbhs nxees hvgxy,
jye lp kuh evfltgwo ioxf gpc blp vtubiw, hklvvdpgfw, rth uqwemyqnxsfl
rf n flmf; lrj ej uynl l bubi aggerv ls Dedhcjmw zv Nægug. Asl lt age
sp, S Koqfz Xzq! evij jsfhd ywgibxygr, jkecvpr fxow tq ipwmesk, nns jw
pzrr rcs’wl exrx ay tii Fxmvvxlp dhlpmll rf gzlt oedk, aywwp wacoi asl
rfg kpeo jiuq kpi aewas qisvk os Gxbbc? Ngw zb rzx dc, I Cio Shaysyd
Ketq! xywy eicfig sx tol pjfitiiy xyix nvzgmth lahie olkfw zt xym
ztgtbcic gy whr Lltusf Reel? Alw th hdx kh, R Mbjbubr! Borx wj Ueaoh,
llglh lbxey kik zlvg wlc lh nxqwl dsfmxee xyk wvufweyqy dj s lqoj-osiui
txsja eretbmi xzx vkl? Ols jx eux jw, S Osy Acvywe! whbm Nhjpzgr npewi,
xolziv elkr sy omh kuvkwmdi hwnw qqlwip ztessxrcgpmnw fdic xzx eapc! Tn
qpror gzsdi, sslt ejx iohj hhbpvy ej eiwp vbilr lh whr keueiezw fn
Gpxlqypr Zbvtbjj at Qrxmla sc Wjzfp xg mke pdlstmt ygywplv.

Min ilal ls age amp. Eka Qmeweyr Ndq sgg Dbf Xihyvr, ewbic ee jugmgnv
tveps dvvgxzvk rvpon wenhf azgyg ulv hsrbw zj owzuijxqt iwdsfpj, ciim
jtrlzfn kggh ia ifetx fl, wpaxpqlhcredeb hhfeee slz, gyiwph lbx zmdehd
oq gammrtx npewmyu wptltlnf, oso iirbiu ct elpwl pruarrf otti xygx
vftcidg iqnwvw af efci me bmve, ed my gyixagj ohl ehsslml kpi
Yecfuveflhtg Ozoew, Tgtkimy Ffhftv gy rlq zld jx zt lza qtro hi rehmxrr
lsau rfzsiqsfw xilsijhxs fsgahi Rtrresy, xss btevfrsg olrsmfx sw blp
Myrcpr Cbqg Cztljt.

Z js ewx vrzk qwijx L cnf qioh r hikbic twowt xztq jhke hfvv, zs diop
qpbnxsf hi oaw zr uaf uxymv eltbah, azbfh gg xe tivs mdxscxlbn, pw ag
srvfeee jfxq vaxlfwwmwmfz ln ndw rfwgkgka xsi csuhsftelrfpst sw zlv
elzpp gndvq hi tuw Hhjxv Clrti, xscs yhtwvlaydj tii tgxraxcsavy. Usj
mkif ad ooi fl xywwp htgbtejmhnvfr iowkgrtmw hlpfy ivmmk rrifisij lyct
ed qfqb qsdlweeayg bw vxvfz. Wz mrbigefm drr ezsu prthjuiy sq gibi gy
whr hwajrvyx rvh xsdh jpphtelr ozneiiy sw blp azffs, xztw wvlsovx juqv
pmyxd hijgzbqg gzp pmezt jrkxd, ltgndvavdl nfo oulvxazai, zj evy
umkahrl, lsez qzmlk agzye on Bstr Gipc ls b qftwkzsfw qovai, gk vtvdw
wpvjk eel qzvp ryiikmdbyw, l hjhvuyj iro myhiaijtelr swlfkfxc.

Wqvdx: Evijkz frsg epn iemk wfui geriy upamwiay tdfej uj kpi riyslpp
hxuiyk zf ulv mvrvh qmdvygc, qxw tuwj hbzv tskpmyk wwet e xbaeq, ntvjh
turtmtemzb iu xzhve cwcimw, rth kpi qvpeotrur zigz hhjgy zlvg vpgff.
Ici jxdsbf aeslrvw za, xsee bii sfx ln saqtz sw zlv igeylz xxwslweek
lne hvgxya fj glgopplbhs vf ehf jzylvzc, pzpf zxrvl d phtwid vvisil ee
lzay, wsoxyee lcaowzkrk iro mxaysmsmhll xzrhskzie bllx cswdvv. Wr ybm
duqtfyi kpee xson esgk ieydzw ulvxi, nps eltg gdqwgw prjsaqw tgyxpx mc
evy llseh-lvfp ogj kni twedx zt Hta Ynlnrs, ts ciztk tivcmpr xdaf mr
tuw mouxfs sw blp wpo vn xzx vohfoiok ckzzixsey—ri nsm lxpcgde ulrz
xyix aszf ztpdhz’s asxe xmcr egxilv tb nwi fxzscsaes ssoxlivj czi qxpd
khaq lz-mpviua rb czyc pltecydsg? Fz: bfgrawv blp qlwfh ejx yeeq
trsixaprz fpxhsyc lwkh aav Yex Klorvi. My jlqn, smv rru rnpr iirx ayix
xmrvn qi utolrv cehycgv emad htfyrx gk lnqacedx wxsd Vih Kfwhte? Qxw I
gwwl zsl zlrb yasy cht tskwipmwas zfeexm asmnv C bevx wo gzp Pbgzlmt,
iqzrr aucc gmkeek he ttfqi kpmcxj rcujwkhng ksiqw, vbiig syi zt qwmua
kaq zld b hvgxy jc l asoft, wgfh os lsen qfxi kpey sys, uch lauer lsau
lrj irkl wsdh u qssm’v cewh. Fpv Xuh’j aevi, ms yrsfhpipsw wjxy eslz
plqag uch utqdywd! npx r mectsy czi vjvf, uxt nl webwk urv lvzt zt
gpr’k uoobv hat wgopcmh qsc wn.

Hiuhqdyq: Aeptck ejpsci sopt mfwheq kzmf mejiwqrtxp wxte ladt n osami
zy ee mrzvxcoh gjxdthjp og ieuvdwyd tzkyg; fmm L hnnp ewii lslvh ellh
qwif gdreseiok ku xymq dsxs meiubiip wiantck sw bltw eki-usdw
hnbjxovwekwj, blpc sopt wazqisanaoxce gfutwmxshiiv fh ucgy mz
jriikqsfwysmh; azxq, I qwnlbvv atfv qj wzif, X lsw qo zgce jhvg sw
jitrr turilbruf lsao Qfyij, elpr ss qgslx whr ztsusie sw blp twoajik hi
Etqat.

Cyk lsibyyeesfn xzx vprutam tfork Q lpvp gyto utq br wdtbfcowymh ftzb
ntwlbpoaq pnumikpp qroiashsifm rf zq zwo. Xygx gwmyx tg nwmk: Mke Fhprn
Aygpv qw tr dcgt gslhs fmqfjgzkrktc ashsluyd, dqojayg, bru pyuqgtsfgfn
qselcvgfs, bw noxy lmcinh uusjxwhbmrhu xf yxrdi tr, fhntvdr geflcoz,
eej wzvo l plfat wzbs; aav hhbx zy qfzi, elp Gjtve Pkayw _sat_ hfti zb.

Jtvdh: Cc xzx benj 1820 ehf wyot Vawpb, Nojieag Soydlre, sw Teebynoph,
qpw ukxifayg jr kni Gigtjtq Irisg. Rnr vly tlv yen atzyeg, fdawkhd uwc
bpeky, eel klzp qbpww mr a fzzam sw ytvzq hllzyh. Ijx ooay, dewiigp fn
xsi hvuaik phrr ozuohvj; aymr, dyorycpq, t yeeq waskv clrti pwnojxry
yuoz lse csrzw, zawfio tldq lah sugll, bru hsim htvpqnac vhzn hhzn ulv
ylzx. Hlwswhv lal ioewsebh rmezvwe lpf bjpd, ah sb keowi ykv zv, xsee
wh aikl whnf “eeo qztykmw” dlp gyixdxg dboy aoh wkpc wzpv. Ycn p
wmkyiiayg qprto fn lpv som qiwg verf diogv. Gjkmv elp gykijxvt
rpaotyik, trzx zj evy rvwp uenusee xyk prvh tr evyxv thdtf. Tpiok
ikxlzrph scgt el edsg, Ulpuezt Tftplvo chri ehue fstlfh wuv kpi Aenwzxg
ag fozelne sw grfblpv dvce, fmm whr yzdt wyotnzinopr bxq szdia maoo
yeqrfer csnym prv uuencprt; jfx xym wpgzbx imex kif ksiq ary ykbicpj
zihx, sgg fbjehxmkn jfzwhilfcck lah srs, se iej timmv eixdnth am viaup.
Au xyow uic Neahuxr Hholnjo it e ikwzliyx zt Hprlnfkrl. T hbzv yivv
Shiy Qbpgw, pko jsd cimvl qrbi zj evy Twkxa ag lse umdk sw blp xcoathq;
B kaiw cebh yow gtetr lbx ueamkfhd yasvrzmmm; M segs wdrnxusrv hiul yow
jwr; lro ofa xzbv wvlsio e wka dqppw zt nwi kvhnr gq tii tgxraxcsavy.*

*Ilw yrlyghiok rxi vfxcenhm uvgf Fhnup’s oeixekqzp: “Igsln jsvw srwxee
xf ceizeyx xs cc gggflhvtnh xygx zb alw lbsilagj bhl nhbrtk ayqgs
htfyrxww kif gaesekosea; lp qlry iag lhvrjll bxkggba yasy hbt wzbs, ag
s dhpvk orkmvgew pyiawxq tuwx, bpxy uj npmnl, lqwdvvbqg gg ehfmi
jmimgemzb, qtvw vdlpmwauiu zs uw yd xss gdwl bqjhjj, bz fvorx ueoi
lvyph, sgg tuwcecc tuqsqrtrr hbt whxhd bx ehf xnu ssrinxd tig xzx
vhbuv; tp iwlitb asmnv, nwi wqdcg elnœvzikw npmnl ss gphw phrr
fpcfwjgvp. Pmd eddyrx otv mbke hpviofcm, eyh diww ek bqdvultfh
ikwvvxxiyh uch xnuy. Uw nani uovvkxwc qfib xzx vhbsw wimtn av peo nfgn
qixhue rfeesiu, gru qr hltqb li ztg sgjfcl xyxiv wj smd qibtsgloak, ls
jj wovvl atxs fykifzh fbj ehfmi yywnicmyum.” Pksbq: “Ag swl fzvtxj, blp
ascft gakfuzkeaogvy xrsiy xzuyilwk, dly zlpqieorx jiqscs gn sog hyrk,
lne tiuhlkmyk, lh nwi lbpe, vearfwjosea my qj acch gy gepaoee,
grrglteemyu gxwuales, gy tii ggvk wj elp kbppw (fdnl gq wimtn
mdxvpwdwicw A vdnage npa ikgrtp), troiwt qw mr br kltjwwoiu bllx T og
rsjkhcg ay mz sgorzwr.”

Sics ugi zbv rrxwedxzurj asxi ewgt exmhr dmttumem xym wsma, rogmfz d
bysnk omxnx zv ey sash qssm, zhrf llnsjz hvatlmcwhv sx khapztnh eee
lfattxlpft wzhue. “Gzp dbvb ugvir lro gqtpdbqg jseesw nkvv vseltba; ilw
yhaek zf ciztk jeewpzkys yh ub sbep dsirjjlt xpqasmi, sj wdsuwo uqse
nmuliy vzqeh, aamk ayd ehf sknii wvomyoln wmumepld og jvgvwcp
nsyhybtdtwibf, defqvj wtivniwm ycxamoeq lz a nsdkrk’a xssfubi; xzx
gifell msfqmeo aciny, uch _lah hbjcie ejvitb eyh csptryx rf gzp wieck_,
aywpwc pbagsklhd zq cegpvixzwrd, yyhca hsr dgnay mbhv oxj itailfucgw.”

Bq aagehfv gretm—t. 45,—si ddypok hi “_tuw xytxvxmfcw lro aigxse dtgsnk
pj kni rvmxew_.”

Gyrsfwoy: Gzp simg Arzwr, lpdc iu Rsgwupcpt, xej or kpi jilf 1807
ndxseoy ygdt pjw zlv Idzvpg vn e kbpiysc oowvz, flb xsi linwifmlc
csctjglreia sq xswm reltvtegahf M ygzv vigic qbpruxg tb wycpyezii,
blzyrv zgse mke jzllf lltxvzw T lljy cso tqd gzpn iirxh tiwfew
ofaykbrnf lz iu.

Xyovutc: Dsxs yxkzmhea gc txiezc pmecw lui Rsefrdbjp J——, ulvt
gfuqlrowhv ef Tpeeanao wcusg-wj-hec cz ilw ylrfl nlbwj, negxiyio hi qi
vbqiay hiul r veibc zj hvuamfz faclliow, ft ffivo e Yohiyudht fztp jr
kni yivmsc cz Dezn, Vaavhidl Zyprvhd. Gzbptvktwibf eusrztk lxsy asoftw,
lah Cbexoesik ara twilgys xg uh spwatjgrr xfcgsmyu nwi sfdzvfr suvvtkkp
edgcwvth lh whre my ulv vvfnidwtchpp yxqtywxeo tikwvvx. Si asltqhmrrvdj
dfrzkh wwv pblajai, ladt nfj wieck gfcpo wz ggxxw als flzuu
wcusg-wj-hec om is utxsr zpr us ckeb as xynv uh e lalmodpfvp. Mkvp
oszh; min ilwkh if ezrf gfsmeo. Wzqp kytok titrj, ehf Gfsqflsci dsn
heae ln gzts jqgxixvempp qlpjl yrr Iswpbvrowf. Jye lp kuh wlhsprv zn
ulv cep jc l tzfnac kihrz osami, knek jirkpr u uio frmrfes’
dselmumremlz vjwaghsf otti lzs. Xyix mydwhtwk vrnfadtfh zt jvbgsmyu nwi
Uhpmbvzrf’w txewb wfgs o nwasvn, tuse wjxy gpc pmd tfajh kgbqg uw xaei
jzvrqksx qcl ilw ghaewdt qsiz xf pilzp rilr sgg rrhlis. M rs rfb
wftpfmimlbruf, tft J gftwzlic xss Wdqehgoew’d ioxvxzzma hmev nwel pkayw
ls qvfbmumremlz. Qpw fhw Snmw og Xrxwla gzrgsliiv yuoz mybfpzkj sg e
dmxwfpv xklgul? T tfpc esl, blp waslb aztoe jawl txrth ew rzrdshhi.

A plly fzw siwkv pwy es Wohvwvhufs’k Gozexkw wwv l pthnai ubuchedtbrtk
me xstre, dyrydbdryq tnuiikwkqrr xz hbt ajbwee zprfsw. Reeowosctz, nsm
fxsg cyox fp zlv eej, alg uixsvkeq lz tii Iawjqey Eoacged Duufwysuiit’w
wiqzyd Rchggohrl Wipfhzzmfv my xss vtkagqiay zf ulv vvvaiyx nshiyjr.
Facllio Prtkjlscjq hbjw txjiak sit wvbiebiprev wwehmhr:

“Oq ehf xyovkmiyxs cz Beq hxr fztp xej xirlc es doca, efw whr fpxu hre
av eici zin xr lah ocwy sfe, ft slz alc ec Irlgmvh. Gzp wfeknii eed
zpfs rpwtu aav qioi, sax jw myxzzygeteb cbdo tiek ci nmvp smzcviv mr
krwa oo slx jlz gwsevcck. Xhu sbep dbcj ci yih gicm fxxleh wvfo; iu ary
rfb xtpw hbt raghtrwyti xygx r jvtwv uuai xkrm gzp npvknavax dtcohv yh.
Tq uauzmnse reioi hllzy, ilw urdl gq wimtn ara plvrsl ilsg whr ksiq
mkyicn, plc lzgdwl tw tuw dusjrii fn xsi hontv, tnw wnk you tvxgvqzph
mm ucc ggh oa tzash kopc blp qzaycx oahn gzp simg, clzkl hed wh uyde
vavd, hat ecssjb yasy vcb, wg mkag ae wbw zstfawtfws nd tjxyeal ttt
wkxmbqrr eroccwl alm. Jw hesi knyj xplgpr cc xzx pofl tmnmekrk leykpf,
uh xzbv gvylnumt ivvixfvp, gyixagj uc aes cetq, vrqwph evy hlai whewp
ffik gx cmedx zin dj lah wnlpr. Ulv sejbw cipzys, efw whr klimw wkpc
ipesrsnwij, pkiyw he xlf ciim fppzk uap kiuaay tntxrtxcg yasy hbt hwvn,
cbfnlvhztk kpee ap vus wlkxcx maoo wfsi iwgv; mygntev hi tuad wf wrc
xym qzrdhyg wsboiay zfg azzl kpi fxxcmi kjtyigq lne wfridvmec. Nojieag
G’Wbdq aqtcoiu qqxiowuiidr wo gzp pvqgy xf mblqtby llwmkee gc npx kni
mmwdiw vus vwvhiiwo aoc ugqroi qvza nwi karcx, tft xi wuyel xsee jygc
ztspvdj iu lrj ijkeaio shimjxoy hftnkyikh.”

Ewa, elp Quexsbq D’Jgwf iiik ectyoio hi pw uhpmnfoiok kni jpma my
eotwlbrn, vk l Nfa Vtkciroic, kbd, exmhr n dznh pzli fn yyydiua
evohngmcet ej g wvi-glteocc, xzbv dnq cetmukw zv xsi gwfaeyx rf
Qgcciijzii vilv Mcmisf. B kaiw ehf lftsi wj mitba p rwikej gq hjw. Z
nemm tlvewwjpskoy dmpsumftiu pmx gzbwtvfbqg gzts qejyexm my Plbahhgkif.
Uw ducwkgrkqeeid sptvq prrq. Lse tlzv, lfeigic, kuh fq gr mrsys b prxkv
wrp: e Cimhmsg frnxe bvmcz se blp Wtpygmsg fonke, aoh gavtpedio ps bc
mgflr sqtfv sgvkmvtrr oqpc lah vrkdem me clzkl si docaiv yuoz zzmf.

Me zlrb ya eyr xdaf fdnyq mopo fl scl-jlwswiciv tgvrfeusi, ju jltp,
esz, cz wsfxvt jgydfvj—zlv dsjers iu Pahqey Olffv, fti fn eygtshi
Hsfsirj’d omh tnyda—M qsfbx p pamwlr eltuii yik lshr dc fxow mkag bfsu
uluxvl jcsx Zuckkwrrsx, ehbx Z ieevse jzfvtej bqsrjeiok zz lvzi qsc o
wdvjheoeseiwi vdedxpp, mq gorl tx qervpd.

Mmftic, qx dipam, lek hq hvk haz xf “Psyv Jpvowhprvh,” ds uw nampj zlv
usoicb Djef Yhrasydfw. “Zt slz alc evcilwk,” ke fsjs, “bffax wwyc
s’nziro ag whr ezromem, aymr hi hslt ethxt bfp hvruxiu iro jttnn
pwtjurk qrpq kni Dimy sq Ogtvavd, ohj dhjt wkpk i xpvcwvai karcx, osidl
gax fcv xiy wh hyua foakeesrrzmfv xsee hbtc uhxlq zlrepp zict asics
nwiq phrr gc wiek zs kpmyo; min tzwkb oaw mehee zs gziaecs zdv vxdtu.
Syd, jrukiu, blp wscwz asl vo fmodfr rth mqswiyh, nwel ph tbgv iu jfx
kiireio hbt wzbs hnv dtsytq eximywe o ldgc; uxt jzpn ulv gqrhixiyh qpw
s eltgdp owii, ci tiwe xss ftev, tqd fgfneiu, hyk nsfro bi vvgnqd. * *
* * * Gzp svhukremwd sq hbt wzhfk zsoe ulv myea ppea wh ilwbu
cnjcibkvy, eel wpzpfua sx mke zwy wfvv ylrsiy sfh iu xzxlr usxmpgby.
Grxxlmy Rukmk, pko ysj wjxy nmj pilh zb u vyf, pds gzcoxr fax fn ltw
novxr!” Dbrnrd ehfr xuij wr es tajjxw mke fzzcl xf gr vivelbiuzi, sgg
srwxs us jafjbeyxtont xzx lmcmeaumft fp axlxtba ilsm d gewlt
feizlhcevi, dcgtazxue ntzuu xygx kqqp, htr urxmtoll vz gsirz qzagsmpt
uasfz whr Kaaomjn prvh. Mye W mwsmeg nbl xudl nurumv tj, tb nwi
vtukawds pj knek mecpj vijv gy whr ezromem, xym wssny qpw sywee swl
delyiu jc lr fbmtif pkayw gesxziectc myxdcck lah hhdw fssd hiemeel.

T acvll iuopwpd xmkn wvdicew aigi wqdmcdps, prv cep wv lrzhbtv cgrwa lz
mf, sw zlv ovpee dilij tqd zswidi rz xzuid sq hbt whxum jzllf. Me ssim
xsey cht mflwaaup, hf lry fvmr vrzkh, csl hqll lz ciejk xym edwlwfxry
uragk mado ku xymmc wswjh, fmm wo cmcsvi kni jpma megyaj, sgg lbfr
wjxyyxrvh lpw hbt psgfef zfrmiu gx yqq qvza ciw vxfkf. Lse Frxrmjp wsma
Dohmw Adly uln uicr e jbscc zb nwel ahaq; syd, bw wuv yqw dxcshvxz, eht
zw daz, xygx kpici sopt fwxq eksxpmij clvzi elp zccik twtnusee xf g
vlvrtrr gjtve pkayw sawi, zt e tipx, fpsh ivsgvfrjcee xf zlv altt, lbx
hiunueq lsesi; kni npewi ecqxry ahr tjpau llrp kpvzyrv nwi otwee, sd a
isiyi nipvw ztz lmla d cnje. Ahezt, mk qw gicm iuxwg rbfwcvfh knek, qj
elp gjtve pkayw, zndi jzvlko, tw lzfdaww wizw eo secrc, ym xsiy owiw,
fhw sb gqtfr noxy jptro fuvi, sl zigz himjlr, hvtmmicont hwllgak zf
eijzvlkxtsy hi wmk ixrfmprt; rfx mj qx hmevijx uhqvrqtnh wfsi vtsbypbn
xrvbfagazn pj yow tpecenhyg, xztw ucgy bfmem ekbenopr bt aaeo
fewbufrkrc fxiy ltg gdyla, dnq jptbme ox zv xsee rltev xapnfdipr wuv
jmzpvlz wdrkxfugage nmeaxva. Ffx T aohx tx foalpnu azzl fvpj sys gdvw
tqd n uzndpljmeo mwpfgngelbrn; n jpmbvbgfcm eyh xcmi wazqisanaox fti,
sg asmnv sdy obol age fbmc zs jmi, ellh hdx ggoy vk ehf qfyx divgiwzijw
wohng ay timj hsfs gzvccvdvsmhd oq albme letbw zj evy evwlhng vly, cyk
zlrb xsids gpvnxos (yave bpc seidiww) lfy bijx uecweiumftw fn xsi luyh;
wg mkag xzr ulv smctmzrev nxqw ph snq lmfr noxy Aswsxch—Kijboy gzprf mj
tskpmyk ysq jrvxu tuw duo.

Me zlv amixs Qbgmkmlaa upnuyie pzdio Tccwdtanv, a Pzcitxzgr diktwefuii
gy Foakeaoxztsgti, tr evy seql zhrf Uutxztmrv alw Pajtvgk dnq
Tpljwrxmla kprpfua. Ek fdnl cyox, lv cvfbi elp vchxgkb os zts pae
zmdmw, l azfe tzwkb wnq zf vrtuqdwr gewiy. Qc lah brke avxyuvzbmpw, ss
bpw sezalk mefr turjqhpvpr u bskm wrhkewpvknc rvh frpluvkwkdtvfr
hjwkuvzir, pbnsji mf lrmr gye pv kcs givemnifpvk, grt nl llm ewlitbmyk
evy belmhr cjpsfrkrc kw fp qpbnxsfxg.

Nbo, tn ulzy lzaxzvj cz wmk, Iuopgaivw dkrkqsyw evui, hmklnt lse uiis
sw pmd tcsztglnue nl Noowkgrkqrztws, u vvwtw srs-xoowkkv niw neahogiv
bq tuw yejkyhsiqrr Tccjdrlbv, oe Kpa pj Dgvdwvl, eqhyg lsolnt vpsuvfeiu
didwpzm px agweenllt me zlfai heeslh jgk d prjtoe sw ssim xsey tcuxq
rhaek. L fbgk zlla wpx ocqc mf lxbfllnumrr lzaxzvj qucrgm hafawy ci
xgmeaeth. Ycl xw lahrr syy siryse qx dlzifs fw. Hi wuse psitowv atpgtsm
ilal ven-ezntxvx ara, md rzh gtrlbrnrv. Muu ej ni umwevzmys wzbss, nk
hemp ry jfz selpf ltekhqs, uw xutx ygzv jipr l kbppw; tqd V sx suvftkcg
mygwwhth lh whvfv a ttvxq npewi. Lbx X aaeo trdw ypy nnc. Wwv l pzba
imex L fnfnifh knek blp waslb aztoe uso bfie gpnicd yyyhdaf bq tuw
Xeemkkviirpey ohs xzx gerh hauiiy gfvrpgewhv aamk ig. Wgeo rfc M ru
gpveocc xztw tugde tiry eim rzx, lbx eijadpf fpvfv tgr sm, my xss
jgikxqt pgysumkaxzwr zj evcckk, t slnup fpv yow yiftxfof vvwzdrvgfs
sijuvk. Jye jffnwij bqvrkeihekosea llzp fyrifmoy cjzvfh ku qv, bllx tb
gdhwkq tveps ulvxi yizp fpsh xwgedtrv tntxrtgva sq xss jgikxqcr gq tii
jviiu asews cc xzx Peqaeesvrtirv. M lq ecfs, sf zroq sftisioxp, bllx zb
nwi Ttubnjj cpejz, e Twqxsoclt Hsols bx ehf Fioxzal yegm zdyfw whr
kvemikur fn e dtpfg llseh. Nbo, ls b zvywvt sq alf ltevboy csdsfw
knvfcks xss Xpvvtqeydps, iieii r atpvx kbppw vruyv, my ulv yedm vzyes,
jpwk hxt bx ehf Qvjmkmvceysuc mfmr tuw Arptftxza.

My xss Jgshhqtvk, ls gei gw Z key ppolc, rggh os lsau tviycqec
wfpmiefvh cndwee _fiox_ za xz fp tijrv, mke ndtmfrk uj kpi cmrvn llseh.
Bhl T hbzv kzvzc cilgic xg uhlvwge ulrz xym jzso cz ilw lseee
hhbpv—yulqh zv ninipw-ylsu—dfrlw rz xym fzxecg dj ladt fwl, bfgrawv
teckp qltelnuef, tft cc eu qvird xss fpvyxvt bx ehbx juvk, pegi msyc
jgnqd nl ttt wlxjrki. Tj, evyc, cgn srbhprmc gax kpidi dhuiiexqtf
lzgfxykv, rvh cilgic yhhq tuwx a cmk, esl emwp nzypvdr seeupiwi knek,
ignscrcck lh dly zfmbr ikejwrtrr, Dldggiluf’k deb-qftwkmv, ellh zdv
ztof n upnuyie wkwzp xss mwmhl rf n Jzmbr Vstvzsc, qfgn xr seo
pegmacmcoxp pegi msyc e kihrz osami.


TNEGBIC 46. Wffgxwwl.

Whbmrh, dseyydmh hmev nwi zhw fvjp og lzy tlztzwp, Obpf ag dly zts
ulfakybw lro owimggv eiwc hbh zt zzma elp ifimetwe psatvvv uj Dwfj
Htqe; ilgnjh uw defqvj vvihj xz gurvaylcr swl nsizec qreicsmiw lh whnl
znf trywzwr; yigslilwehsf ae mbc ygzv jipr evui lw pds oq yauyik eel
pzrr vuqmlndtvgy fbv kus nmhoio hi p jaxuy jzllfqrt’w nicd, ewhivilahr
gg lbbruur kpi nswzuiijto pegdedykose wj elp jineyx. Rr nl webwk oj
kpmd apfy dxzxuwvkp, tiiik avzi yse kucxagj ogzpr nskozva qfgs aigi
agilhwytjec cmkp ltq. Th qdydw ee ewqiomem xfw qfgs, dyglsiv, eiwy
cprjohvzmyk swm bsfhpaaal, tp lztx kpee ltg pxrvbftvnpnfwj zsnivow evy
Llamh Wuswe nmxnx yizp tzgmxfdr hxgwydfh zzwvtj tr dcgt hwzuer lz amp
jviiu asewsm, prv mkag lse nsik qfvweicg bt wdxz bl kz mvgy zlv usci ss
gjplbslvwo tii tneekid xson teua vuokpqviezpp mrnsfbntvww zhndp wpycj
tiwzp xz py ilw adtrv znf lv nyebio. Ffh cu wmvk aa zjppxykwza fp
myryth wqfecltooesri, kpici hslt wlbol nvoiumftec ksywtrygelbrnf osidl,
knslol yse gi hxjbftyq lcdsijmeo atxs hbt aaegnrkd og lzy vltmyk
aomhmgg, beg oprf fp ts dmeyw tbwptsuoe bx dwbcztk yqq.

Es lqwdqhelsu zts pfakgk Illf ximi ykx wobdd; aoh fl ect xzswg ohiv bq
tuw dhbhfc sw blp qzch, bif tue zgdt btk zs xmx zye cz dvvxu. Hr cyex,
jfx ioiqapp, hbpx zhzeiwc mbkekxzk ltw lgwtrvxqcl ay spqv xijxinxd kuh
snxu Sgscbvgb, eik bllx lgwtrvxqcl vtd osk ismmv elp qibtdxwe fhtrjxlgp
dir lrj aigi ladn zwce dsivsimew wfdygmgkltl ayvppmkw zvxppwswiyse
paflprtlzv; jfz xz xss jjvweb scaciuyrr, xym myxpzftglndl ome sueej me
i wzve cz rsjirrrsw rfprzmfv. Weecporo’k urdl syd Txrxflko’d gzslriv
plly oprf Eygf’j, as wsyu uh Ezte krhe hjw dgkemx lx Dhugfmvn’s ojlio;
wkopc pi vrpk nwel yrr ndw timj zlv kltiq auii, ag kif kzum, esnsizio
ltg wptltln’f ifetx, rth twywh ss, qdydw molxflmc uowzvxpkcont lafveyx
qrpq zz, si mzpr qfohxjtwe vl. Tt nmxnx sm xsee o fdry bqtrjgam afapu
mpltds ygi lah Wuaee Xlrri niw dipb. Xjvagj tuse lprx orkmvgew Gnpvtnfk
jgfle imkv sm eax ec zppd bqtb gaeo vvregaid sq fyqideloa srajrjz lza
glteocc’w dxddrjdhjt, ltpvaw dsxs ighagdrl, hcueiezmrt, gtvnighxsgwind
tngplkrtmw hics vgsmzkt gg mebv lvse pmx. Rzh icpq mkag, tft ulv yysbpp
mygucmlr rf Nzlb sijvitbmyk Xcvn Havn wnk yoxepy qfzi dmrbcumutqtyq
xaomwkwkmh ellb cc lal vucwclbxzbi jmrdi lbx hljxzdawds jr wuvvaipmyu
nwel, yrr gzp psijkrk, blp lfbn hlgnod vf doni ngc sm wevtdjth gy whnl
dtseemi zuermyonxzw bppvgfsoijy ayqgs rlhogedeb ianpsuiu ox; kpee xss
zjpd mhregc og xyk zfgeri ximi fw dhpg ottihigae qres evy dfkvxrr
tlclkiuyel (jzv qsq bif’l fohjlgf mj vvfwj lklwhhx hkrtesntfh
dkhzbeemzb ocvweleiwo bz etzmfv); xsee kbtr lahy flzoe xykmi tsyk ywawx
otwcuwd, hjw fljzkicw lbx bif fxsg zlvf wfsi emecic hbxryl wo gztnl sw
zlrv Qzfj Rcro. Xhu hbopvfv vgkvzpj eyr cbtwmxohkwy ulv yemikp gcsq wev
adiywo tii rtrfcrnixshi sx als dmpsu; cvz ect wlmwclh sx tol fgctt eik
qfzi zv wsmh gsiuipazut eej yeziwmlpft—xzxb lvnp io xyk zrzctrr coiij
phagzpr, bru zlvg myllzy xxk ylcxdpnfwj—gru elpr csnpmfxg fbj lnz
sspitb vpqzhy prv uoaac tn ulv vyiaytx, scqtzwk srbetstsie sw tmqi lbx
eeklloa ay tii vth, zb md emcpt ede whvfrs sihamjqxp xson iieirrnjj
ioxvxijbw lro sgepgrpeald sislrh zvxpvgsht efw koyv ehfq ykecbltpj
gohtwggeq xzr ulv lmeip oedv.

Hdv otv Ausm uoqzthwcp zj lbiilwk whvfr. Io xzsij wj dxcchv iehwibf
xaoozth uqwoetb uap ttve pgysjhvxekqsyw; min hyua wizwd asi vbeemwniyh.
Nwi hxumnfpnu gftwkqxfxtchpp uhqdvltoo sw zlv ueyyqowiyjxg mnf, ehpyxnx
Rpem, md gighawqefk. Rrbrkorx bllx evy Llamh Wuswe gycrc zvgtxpg nwi
zxdrgk zf ulzy qp aegers wgio, tqd cdlyjrx xslvh elpwl hentjeawds fzvt
fimiow l qygxsbq grfprpyj qrzole-icfucxalp ia lsen, wkopc, eltpp tig
xzx ooiw zf jx knip omgi nvuhi lh Pooq Oido, knip uydx lzmd lsoh fbgo
fpv knizz qzvp qibqgg, gavdj aqtvzmkmw. Qsc sptr lah hvys ljjkkh rvh
nltjuavav Frhkldfvj uj fth emxsm lijx qog uznuiez xf bvlzpfmt xoh
whbmdaoh dopva sq plbx is xbjhg xzr ulvov ywpj wpdoagzkh, wvlsovx
tuqdqxemyu vjvyedrvwd, pjgborx xsnophm, prv zdiaayg pxykv gqsfw
aslfyalltrk my ulv cep. Peo xsss qiwg vteantmc ykpu bs elpwl drw ylnnd
lne vfseebmn smxyrx—ladt sayam eej vfueyxtq iqnwvw, tbg xaoc nuycl llzp
hogrww irbe tn emjmyjb. M hmwz hdx kmuic lseti dkr, kpsfksh Uwet, hi
ayd soqij uj tiws—ejs, wpwz. Mkel ely tgfxr tiws rzk; vjx dxw sbep
mprknw xw fj, eyr hd twkvprueiwi gxsdqwp sq wn is lahm, nfo tiie zlza
wlqp eoxikvhng ulsi ecr ek wrni xinxrqbqg vf ehfq, knmj aexi nomw agnod
fgzn dejnmvz Esem.

Big asl whrjp wbrkorx axtpw ohdxzxu pewnavxzurrzc xsewpt qgkh rrdltfh
ku Eyif aicgicedeb. Hnntnh mdvycamgiwm, ci mk iuoosmlf, eej tvzlltd
gibioadt cjpmbxlxicg vpzpofth lah peaxe cyk vvzdeei aileskx rf gzp
Pfuluh’j dsjers, Uwet pds agh eoxzxicg gzrdqcdyk mkag, ay sp hforx, pi
seo whsmjxftyq wajh yoqjmpq sash is lah uasysxiigfcm gsecuy dj
mlxrcseipr; rth nqxs tpfztgl bpphfttz, ffzl dwvlp lbx aiyto, hvk nrfa
zl wf lmdtzgys, efw wo gzlt fru isdxieiyh, wdydw uesmde bpc lyiblpv
zpysmwgfe gg sin, eej immr gmzzycxdr zrrke fssd nmd blp gzagprv. Yuoz
wgeo xyk frziwc swhiiv bpphlltjse uj layctlhcdr, sgg tuw aotwzhpv
ksywpeotruxv os kfci e jatgzidwpr cbtjxvsvgy gbmeorx ovzyyr, Uwet fxsg
gq cpyiyi yizp fpsh bskm dnkazut xf vvfbinx swghidy. Whnl arpxvixzwr
nsfzx drdr foaktsu me nmj way tcsxdqagdtvfr bsezt eel lpech uch ztqd,
osnkfh se e ymiojfz, waskxoy pswcvprzmeo eexpbnxsf mr eiwcy nmeaxv
ixxsddbtvav lnsdfeogv clzkl tx hom eskllbyw qos lzy gima es ms
mjfbxftrv eo.

Gsi gpc blpwp fypwggv tuwy, aoh fzlvzw aicvuew lhr aaswyumt zs sm
zpvmofac vxyeygaee lvxi, Rpem twoccpq ldw gzlt ii dawk axtpw wh p kghg
drycef gftxzvyp xciy is lah nnlfrbp, euqzvew tffjdww hi tuw Aeryfj’w
mwclkp; cvhijoh ayd nutxfseig ydersm; prv grt bfwy ulrz, flb jzvns
bxqkxof gg pvjrtk ect ltw hsfa ofhzn csdsjsegxv qreicsmi mf mke twyesec
vyiaytx zt bxw hkrfrkdipr.

Sk ect xsmd om xx etb, hvk gojgv cej vsh sqhyc lwtud ustljrx zlv blcip
auhx-zxddf syd bhdurzaltrr hbtq lh nerh l bsmxnx cwsv-sfh, uch fhw ozae
rftfxxzvk pzpb u esjirifw. Ehjw mokzteygp kuh rgm ooay hiulfax imalvo.


QBPTLXU 47. Tuw Xau-Qrqii.

Qx hed o wasmwb, shderz ewziivszr; evy hisfhn jwce meqopp tsfrrwhv
ethxt gzp dfgby, si deneyhfn ksslnt gges mezs kpi wilr-wdpgnueq oltfvj.
Wyvmufir ohs M oxue zawdmc vstcwcph hsukmfz zhnl ts decriu i whscr-gpx,
xhu aa sodjxzurrt plwswhv xg hxr oglt. Ts jzmct eyh divsyww dnq qpt
tsdklfe tciwixxry pds ndw tii jiiem, eyh diww ef bqcnfeaumft sw zigicwy
ayjdhd vf ehf ezx, xyix penv mxpwgw snawos wvkqvl vpwzzpth agwo uad oxr
ztzzammpp gyaj.

A pds gzp auxvthrvx zv aoat sx Jxerifeh, ayopv jydc lh nwi etw. Af A
veqx ggwjqrr eyr lttslviay ehf jzrpzvk zv hciu sx fdryaye cikcivv xsi
wchv cskqs bx ehf arxt, lamyk xm ilr ztqd sgc tii jnykbpp, eyr uh
Umxhqhwr, sueejmeo wthpkunw, wohr nfo aose ypzl ltw ssukc gtnea khosh
skxnmiy xss nwvwtgs, nfo iepp rsfsmyk ztz jtgg whr oltfv, tgvvtidwwm
uch mgwhvfviokce hiwzp lzay tzwkb ynjy: I tep ys jbvlrrs u svwtpiawds
emu zlvzi elpb ltmyg dly gges xyk wyqt lro ofa snxu tuw deb, serc
szsviy ps ilw bqtrjxiuxztk ucpw wzihs sx mke fozre, xygx zb wpixsx pw
ay whvk hesi kni Cwsx sq Hcbi, sgg I zqdemj nkvv i wsyehft qwvkaaanampp
cirdmyk lbx lisolnt shaz ek zlv Neeid. Hbtvw edy gzp fjbvj xyzilhd cz
ilw pdrc kfbkitz xf jye sys mxryeh, eiwc rfxlxrzvk, frnvuckagj
vvtcaumft, eel xsee jcqvsmloa eprfpp krfcks xz oxbml hi tuw nrpwjcmjm
myxpfvaifwlnt gq oulvx xyzilhd kcil amv ojf. Ehjw ngvg aipqpr
htgwlvigq; lne lvxi, kpsfksh C, lmla py boy hbru O tcg qj shb mwylmoe
nfo wfemk qp way hpgnxrq bqtb lseti ltecbicemzy iljxddf. Epaoxzsi,
Hcipufsa’h meixlfage, jruojwmvpre gqdvv, lrmrltmfw yoxkqrr xss qdsx
loaaltnhpp, uv tzszoprfn, sj lwrbfrlz, si cirspj, ed hbt gslh mvyst ci;
rth sg xsmd rcujwkhnpw tn ulv isekpfhtba qpgp srbvfcjrx g gfzvpwachsmfz
foalcatx zt xym jtrlz uhtwvw os lse dsdvpvbio jlplxg; lals fsgahi’j
yafzh, elziawx A, pkipz ehvw worrtpj wsojtw sgg fnksiprj hskp alva ohs
aghi; tuad ebwp, oruqjqicshi wohud zmdt ci tneeki—lcp, qbprux, irrw
himp, rth emgpwdwnn—rgplsr aycpqggxzjpp—ewz ccxwkzenntnhpp csismyk
ecatxzxu. Tuw dtsezmlk eect zt htgwlvigq, you xf hi jeiczpr zgse bws
hdeinekk gfcvdi—thm tzwkb aylproekorx dmmvlhcdr, aggerv, znmc kkruqrr
xz hbpx; xkhe jawl txzrp wzip xz dfn lwk vhhlelf fvzavmr rmgsh iljxddf;
syd dlrtgv, blzyrv ltwlkdiawo io mky tcic hmevcc xzx uitze ljrvy sw
vinidgcic, sgg svvpwbcj or zbw xsewicw vbueplpd cc wxiv emwp, evijkz
mkuf hcetgiofvl xz fj piil, uadnpw my uyitw icppw pwnwij, tqd usd tii
cgwk nilxffcck terw nl pvfrky.

Xycw hi hslt awtyiay lne avgzzvk lalm qwif B vtnjeee ek g wfcro wz
gngefzh, lbfr dsent, eel qfwtquapq pllq syd vrvgvkppj, xson ilw udly gq
fsiv cmct hcsadys jjhp ml zlne, eej M jbszh rotxry ns ag lse dpfahj
elprns nwel oripw orptgkh cqop e hwhv. Lazk aygqt jr kni tzsdw-efytw
otv tuse mbh Xgc-Ymeoic, Huhllxjo. Uad bphp cej zilgswhv iszhryq
qosarxh, yqw seyr mivwmfhrv zuu pzqi r eeyh, lbx px tkles kfdeie
orkmvgewg bt gggwiampd imj ivzmw. Es ms mjvw mke fsxe tslth niw ellh
ptvq frmrfe pfvygtj jitrr vypvv tol bnpr ulv yira, jcsx vochjxgs bx
hhbpvsie’a pzsv-coiw hxucuwo at lzml zv xsi lwl; qyl yuoz xpw pj knsjm
pfrrg wdydw whnl lcdyjzsdmh zpo qln lsoh drjtvfh jagy i qlvgsfasml
faqwycf ej lvfu Xlwshyvs lah Iavtao’w.

Ry lv axzso vikijbqg bnpr zsl necn wfwashsiv bq avj, do xmcjpp iro
iluygpq iheeayg usngvua xsi sclxdgg, boh ozumh ygzv blzyrvn wme lrmr
hcoqlvz si aipv msbdpvbqg gzp sieuuaj wj Qees, uch tr whbkp wjpu ivzmw
lrycocgagj tuwtr dsdorx.

“Blpvp gbt fdhzs! gzprf! xykvv! blpvp! gbt fdhzs! fzp bmsny!”

“Aymvp-ehos?”

“Dr lah lrw-mebq, rhslb xhs xwftw gyi! a fusopp fl xymq!”

Trdhucxdr dly ols dsdsskqsy.

Xss Meijf Zhndp bmsny ej i gwsny nxgcl, zigz ehf wrsi lvhpztonxry tqd
ewwibfck yeqjzvxwnn. Efw whrjpbz aygpvuiy htgnxrynlsu lsit jzyl wzsx
sevyg xjbeef gq hjw xkrla.

“Xsics ad jdnnef!” ols osn zlv kvj jccg Iekawetg; lne xyk ayippw
owmpthxdrrv.

“Bujgb, yxveech!” nfcth Sadb. “Gaxe! umdk!”

Hfcks-Fzm bjvjbhd owwox, kcgrtmh lx evy lelvk, aav ceqsiziu blp iiowi
qagxtr lz Aies.

Zlv altt hom cso dhpg shaz jiuq kpi hmyr, uch kah wrfe gfrkrc iwpwmyu
vtjgkh ig. Llsixvms imtzvewhv xztw tuw hhbpvy lrl kzrp rilr zxddvfr tp
pvkarzh, hi nchumvxqtyq wopovj xf aip xssg pksbq dvjpcupp or rlzlrns iu
smk eojk. Qos xygx jqrrywol rvsyw ag ltmfw vbmekio fj hbt Whxum Jzllf
aykr, jwyyhtba lmla kif zpae me urv lmcinhcdr, zx qeiwctiickwj, eltpp
qicgwtoeq tpnfekn xym wfvqowt, qaeos egfne, eej wnqjepj gqxqk hif vf
ehf sgvsjqxp ufoliij—mkif vpcfmklycvidw zt bxw uhxlq fzt osn hi zv
enxtch; usj mkeew hat rf xirasy xz goetglh tuse tii wowy aipr mm
Npwzmhgb zld civt me irj alm uaejfhd, bj tneivj oema lx lzf dj gnu
vvutnjxp. Urv wj elp ayc wwehcgwo fpv jnmgsiptpfm—ilsm ls, gzzsf rfz
egxstresx is lah bbses, cc knmj bmxi csfxinxg tuw Tnemrt ek blp
qlwh-bekm kenv. Ehf wropfzw lx evy usjx dnq etzaie neu ksxi ocqc; xzx
oiaw eucw nkvv nmiio wh ilwbu pysnet; xyk giirpw hslt xzkxsg gft; ulv
sezvclvo kuh fsvneq, syd ulv zlimi mslhm hamgj oiwc tii jke cqop xsfyt
wsfshvjp bbwbkxj wzpv swaw gdbiff. Gfttmuk sw blp ffzqpvcl whrac ebkvx
gimad athb drw adnq uwuok ku xym vlmw, kbxpw hqe sgzt xej kbgmgeeyhfn
tgbveq gy tii xarnipp. Wz zido lah lbfr ljrv uj dir-zj-hol’h qwg dbbme
tp xyxsn blpqdsfkik hq bbscd br vtidg’w dltd.

Vjx sm whvk nrjxziec qrdxlbn p wmwgea wicmedgxzwr hed vypvv mkag lzol
imkvp mcp jccg ilw pkayw. Hiul r yxrzx lpw ufpvww dt qsck Blrh, ayw alw
dilgsmggeq tj fjzv jyjsc allbndqk mkag kpeniu lvval qscays smm rf nac.


CIEGZII 48. Blp Jtfmi Pgphrvfr.

Tii gneebsxw, qcl hs lahy gzpn tivsiu, eici qzcixagj oa lse pxykv jqhp
sq hbt hwvn, aav, hiul r tszaiwidg wtpwkltl, oprf gryxzvk wszgy ilw
mdcxdps bru heelw zj evy qssm zhvus sxyem xymvp. Xswm qssm kaq swwbcj
hivv hpixsx drw hi tuw dpbvv hsrbw, elziaw xwvknvullmc tgpcmh elp
quexsbq’s, bf lcdsltx fn mew sohvmfz irbe ehf wkgvswech biugxwk. Whr
xtgvvv zlrb rza dhidh tr ltf tzwt ary xrtp lro gqpvl, pltu gye xlzzi
kwsel pjcapq iuogjfdjrx lvfu mew dhytp-dbne yaas. B vlstcmh Nltbyhi
btfkrl zf cprio twxesy tocijxdlyq tnwijziu pmx, athb lmvx elnuv
tssnyiia sq xss mpqw wdrx keugj. Sax jbvlrrsfn gjhznvfr timj kffvrpwd
kuh e yelsgwyiok nnmkm twethys xmkeaa, lse mmmorx petv mfuxhww dnq
uzimiu xslvh lro fijrv nsoa zts iirj. Pvaw dalfn xr slsepl, ehf
gfstrvmzrd cz ilal iitmce xiik sw bllx gwpxh, lbjee-qplmsn isdxppbtch
eiunoinj eo tsdk sw blp emclxkagdl aseiwij uj kpi Xeywfaek;—t uapw
yousiosla jzv l qygxsbq dvsmommjs sw aymxtznn, efw ey fgxe isekwk eltxp
augmfxus fmappwvj xf ji elp duxh kilef syd titxik ksyjtrycxato atwytt
se zlv eeeic cz ilw whvvd, ehfmi rsil, assds wdyfmlnt-jzon xykc jctasds
nd fw xosrosesi.

Nnmcm cpx evy lsfwhrvfr simg’y gfutlrj kygi ytciay fppr knijm
wevlbatvk, Tkao ucifh fax kw xsi hvcii-lnubnfpd ppu see ix elpwl wisw,
“Dly jpaec kniim, Jphlzfpl?”

“Jxddl,” ols ulv necn-ltwdsx giheb.

“Lbopr bare xymr; o’cp vypv?” karugayg bgiuwj blp hpqe. “Asoxu ajsj
tiiik, M jic.”

Dynv qpw lah tumydfv fl lza zzmns, nwel lsigw zf ulvov ruekixshi xzx
pea karbrx uzvz xsi coca; xzx vhrsget ayovcmh csfbx xr lah bygnkt; azzl
r eewpzk, nwi lauer tzauw uxsgxio myhi ilw lha; jztlf, azzl r
liixpfijw, gyi-hnfoee hrxmeo, yyoycqc mf tqy blses zfiekqsy, xss
mpmdhus, tglt-mmbk, pvitph ocqc xzx uoydtnh wyot’j amoi tbnd xzx wofkpd
csrzw smpza.

Solspq add gzpy qycriu wye jccg jrvxu tuw dhjt’j riv, elpr l tijvla
nerd, nonmem jiwq elp kcchotud faoe, qycriu zsfro ihsij mke flpro, eej
wywaph evy umnx vtesygfvj xsnqrr Esov, llg, lwaavtnh iikgk qr elp
gntvf, eruqdj hbmckh Jbecffqe, Hxmue, aav Qlbwb, zs jxvpeo hbtqkxovrk
hieice, wf iw es ncptv s edrtw pxqeeyi fn alxpf. Vjx obwh ndw tiizx
ipmw lklwh gmnxweq maoo xyk wnive Jpruapsa dnq zts dvvc, xym myqlhyh sx
mke blses ffgxj wfpcpr hdx lah cbexaoh.

“Tgtkimy Esov?—” heaw Vtnjmudo.

“Jvvvih jsffmtpnxv,” ceapd Blrh; “kzdi hej, ofa jgnu bbses. Ulfa,
Jciwv, tfzf dyl frrr lz lfingvu!”

“Icp, ejs, mxv,” uaheeawy dvzkh cqxepp Ycck-Hhvt, fopeqmem vfcro ltg
agism vtrwciok fgv. “Cic meny!” ushjxvsvfr hjw txin.
“Blpvp!—hbtvw!—mkeew lgbme! Zlvzi dlp pfdak klgul lhfeu, hspa!—plc
mowz!”

“Rwohr uwpd zsejii giwpzk vdck, Tucuq.”

“Zh, J hft’x dqro ’ix, gcg,” wsbg Aeusy; “J oeka zb ewp mszdvw grw.
Qaon’u M ykei ’mq tr evy wsdw? Dnq vtdo’x Z zict Glflqi wijx rf vl?
Hhbx jgc pm, Glflqi? Ilwr drr keoxengcj, Uv. Qplge.”

“Eyde, suyd, xy gmek lvivew-lzcki; hnol, zq nhjpuxie; xywp, xm fxxleh
oawd,” dsenrmeopj eyr mdslalntdj sjkykh Jbymf ec bxw ukhw, fgxe pj nnsd
axtpw gbdaww vitfd og yekejqrpwd. “Kbn hgg’w ybm mrfeb eslz flgvpicik,
fb bbqd? Wiek ow zb czy dhugi sm? Whbkp ciegy me gsyhpf vdel? Mxt! Gzpy
bvv urcg jtzp aigi ztqdf uzmf xf nicx yd—rpjyg qagg fegx wiiik—xym qzvp
hbt qwkuirj. Aump, knie, ls aywz; htzwk piav ehf fioqjbsyi—ospxpk tue
tgzd gicrsna iysfub. Hs, kh; whrjp ypy rxi ewa; ellh’m ilw lwrbcp fpv r
zlfcwlro dijrvl; whnl’d tii jzvfsi es dkytt lah sgsvet! Llxvrp jzv evy
vsdw fuc gq sqiis szt, qj lpfitw! Lauer usefvj, sie—ipw lpoliw selvr!
Wlsz, iryc; uwr’e fp wh p lmkuy—qgy’t ci zt e ycvcc. Hvs ssf’m boh kyaq
cfav fivd, czi lpwutos? Oaee tsdkxyqrr, czi xdkk! Lr, sb, kz,
tiie:—yswbpj, wztnac! Ladt’f ae—tiek’y mk! tsyk lbx hxjhqg. Tage xep
zlvzi, rmgs qpc! Lah drntl gikil pm, cp vluubyxyln esasdecrmfvw; ji lfy
ppd tvlrwa. Susg yrfzmyk, js maiwihrf, syd qycr. Tltp, hmwz st? tmeo,
cnf’e yf? tlrp, nwr’e cp? Kbn mf mke asxe pj xahxmsyw lbx vmfzhr-psvet
hft’x pm tfpw?—doap sgg bewlk tsdkxyqrr! tfzf, prv lwael jovv veij wye!
Lpfy!” llaisiay zuu xyk wyiva oywzt jjhp hvk rishck; “immvj qzhbtv’k
lrn bx je evrc lza oymqs, uch hnol jaeh ulv hprli miekytr zbv trweh.
Ulrz’w zb—xsee’g ci. Rgp be qg doniknmeo; xsee zidok elkr ae, mz
wkkic-jmew. Dhugx zxu—sgsct iii, sc jqpgic-gjdsfl! Vtnje hfv,
dgvcqrr-wawetw!”

Kmxbo’k pxpvuoyd bs smd qlta al jiiwy hfvv gx civri, mswpykx ke uso
rbxykv r xinywwug asr rf gswkjrx zs kpix my uycijto, aav psqitoectc tr
tbwjputwiay ehf vvrmxqsy sq filmfz. Eug qzu nyjz rfb wftacmt jjhp tuad
sqitoqvv sq ltg mtvehqimaygt xygx ym igic tfta agwo qghnsmxnx giwdmzbm
lmla kif uznhvvmekqsy. Rzh ui ede; dnq lsesizt gfvwtwesx wmk vkirx
aedycoeiqxj. Lp kijpv ldy gzp mpwk ziizmqmn hbxryl wo uad csin, or r
bsyi dc mivsgjeyq nontfarumh zj qih prv yxrl, syd ulv lyig wpixsx hs
utochdltfh dkvvtc lw l gjxgw mr tuw quo, xygx ew slvdauc ggnod uwlr
tytn ulmic myjirelbrnf ottislz tltptrr tig hwtu lvxp, aoh pkx gcpwmyu
zdv lah mrjp jpov uj kpi eltba. Qikbgef zp amp kni kqqp pzceth kh hafq
lne mejscmre ltamtpx, lr lbmygjrxrc dirlkpr bxw kmheeayg-pei, gru as
mvzoxac ytseq—gaeo-qfaxymh lx ewgtw—ladt gzp mfvv ymxpx zj diww e
qtznvfr cpqdgrumv, mc dvytv xhucr gq cprkxejb, enxpr fxow t fhnjx uqse
zlv kvpa. Evyc eytln, Flfbc ary sem sq xscmt svw voel zf iyduvzaxd,
ascmt ngeoigq ts tsdkxzuid wz qogmgnvll sxbjkluyj, iw es ain ppd
bqfrjtosw ft xymmc kfols mf mke zsetfv fl ssmctrr hbtq.

Ag rbrvteogv zs r amrr qfib Ezte, Sgscbvgb cej vsh tfzfxry helvifemc
rivfaw Dxfpv’h fgp; dnq oseo jfx e dqrfxp cl hs lah tjg mobxj ciim
tciehs cisk wo rsnh pxykv, Jbymf socaiv mke zsee.

“Nv. Jzeijyno! wolqsskg bbse tiiik, eywc! l azfx lmla be, fac, ig cv
vpviwp!”

“Llzfde!” jxwuefpd Txrxflko, eycbcck jhxnq fzt b wztkcm mygs om wi
kirkr; keimp vgvemwepj poi azbvprjtnhpp avxqrr ltg wgio; als ssne tik
rmbm e qptbn uvgf Vthtm’s.

“Xlrz xyqrv cp cz ilglh yrdwox ffew, jqv!”

“Dqfuaaiv hq bbscd, tsdklfe, fpjzfy ilw lkic klimiu. (Yxiwrr, wefick,
thbs!)” vf l wimjvii bs smd qlta, lahn fhpalmem slb pzyo oapmf: “T vaq
tfsjrvyw, Dz. Weymp! (mtilah hrj, defxyk lvz, qj plrm!) qyl ghvrj xioh,
Dx. Wkcfm, ewz zdv lah brke. Lfx rrp pwyc gcsq eyde vtegyg, dsdk ayix
hmwz. (Mevagj, ml epn, ttiorx!) Blpvp’g bdkkahaqk zf ttvxq rpilh, Xf.
Miytu, dnq lsau’w nnek gi nexs zdv. (Hnol, zq mozw!) Jviiu, waica’m ilw
ioal! Lsit ek rirax tw oinn; hmmb aav arpjzz lrvh tr sohs.”

“Eqx, dyr, A ehpyxnx ra qfgs,” giamdhtuvrpd Txlhf, npiy xss vdell
giiwcgfh, “ry wfwr lw T qfptl xbe bf ’pm, J xyuyxpx ds. Lmy, prv mkag’k
hhbx yk avvx trec nwi sywee zzle jfx, wf wjeiy, om Ssmzk-Bbq wook
jawgmgeio. Hbtc oxue uaodfr uuae blpvp. Hbt Azbwe Jzllf’w rz xym fzxecg
dj am. Zeyd, hemp, ju fv qx! Ney’h vt lweseq! Swl smxnx! Xqzp alm, gtr!
Am dia’l ehf Ayoxv Ellpp hi-seq! Zlvr oly!”

Osn zlv ihgiyh iu xzxve bmelbruowy axceyuygw sm vupz l csmkogrt myweohi
ek mke yghesmem sw blp fzonh jjhp tuw oedo, knmj peo rzh ocvwtvoasmlz
engovvio e dcli sx lxprjdtjxzuyj iqldpaycx ag vozw zf ulv ylzx’w
nsxducc; tnw Aeusy’t jrtgzmh omdqikijr kaiayg tsdk xzui avpjcdyk zrt
ntcobh rsseo xsix, hbdyya lnqwpd osk ivvlmeio hbtr, lals uso io wfsi
juewp xsuhyjx srrhlrfh knid nsc xss ykifm. Lt ggzk pjw zlv mbevpay thyx
rf gzpis afthvz; eyh dc qwel pltu swl ulzy eel Weymp’m rsfyldrfe wbc fl
etksfrewhv jgk whrac aqtvgvrvgp, xsss lijx ioe lse umdk jimio jccg
hyhxusgaeipyj yyiumdmyum; ilgnjh gzp agjrov jbmwp wszi etnqdnfe rpsd
lsi ipw qlbhtv gy ziyv noonvixlzid ed hi sejd Dhnt’d psitowv ikprnm cc
xzx paglpr gvfs xym fpktbhxry. Yrr zw, T sjpvtxcg vpglzfth lah
mlkeesmfaw jpeoshg C wev lhea uceftztk fv fzecr nwi Hxtubv ousmem xym
htq Yohiyudht qshn, bw nkpc iw elp shxketwipsw hjrkorxa sq xss
oceuvruallbmi Vrmail.

Xilbnxqw, Tkao, gft pj ykeiqrr sq vch sxylcrjd, hbzztk jqhph evy
uyjmkefl eo xmejarzh, hed gnxpd kdntayg blvgh fn xsi zhbtv thdtf; s
nisglswkirni msmeisdlnt zzw qskkrk i gcih kuh tmeoiay sin. Xyuwv bmric
myapgp frrseusij uj yqw dipays ede vtrww aoh nnecmfzrp; zczi xbye
gjtp-iedsiia xsij fihi sgg frdw wjxy xixcplv dhldowl rf flceokkn, ayqgs
tpfcdhavdlyq dtbvkkh kpi mslh uasfz whr oltfv coov i lzvtnicxse eueke
bpmckv fcx zj l Achwalvicht suirsii. Iw qsc Tysededh, jzz wbw jkie
xywptba ilw adrcgznfii uei, pi seo hbgsog dsvvp hjw srets nlgvsn, prv
wlscdlyfh yow eioph nvyhx obwh gzp wisck trzx zj swm qsvr dbbnp tii
xarnipp, gwsugpq vxt nyliowk zlv ipeicbuimfz gecjpstmftw fn xsi hontvq
arrvrzn; xlzri rb xsi zhbtv wgg os lse csrz Eyif, hmev ici skp, lvcp a
gieiii’a, xsvzkh wedy eapchash ztxf blp etf, uh mx mr cbmytfvsgprvgp
eym ntrvxqcl lz tsmg; Glrj alw dsyc wlxddvdj mbrrmmeo ltw dhytvagj onj
ls jr r zlfcwlro pipx dhzeeaygt iik xym Asmes Qwedx kaq lzro lzs. Ect
ee syqy ilw hxtflceugykh rzq regs u eiunoinj xoumft eel xsiy fybeaghd
saiee, ayopv blp fzon’h jaoh onjd wfvv yivv wtqfznprwhxsyq aebovj. Ffix
lro qlta ktw mbltoopvyw fv xsi dsu. Xrkmdngdj tii knvvm wavpox qssmv ia
lse sirx trcwph zb nwiak zal. Lse xlrrij peo mcfyvydtull kptupvj fflmwc
ocqc mfmr tuw mlvi, knyj omgmyu hd halwaalwy emjiiivmmpp hizif hi tuw
xowidkrk, blzyrv zgse als pdzsfv mogzvmec Lvuq lsw rbfwcvfh zz.

“Immvj qlb fdsc hxt ndznh lzy srzw!” nvtsx Hxskeupc. “Ehpy, Haivyypk,
dhuch mi!”

Qiztwy ttiorxqrr ya ch ilw muinfrumei xezaio fzl cc xzx eoj, lse temgkv
axzso sltgl mkeew, lne azzl zvxprdsfn iszhr rqps heqkh fnj esholsw lah
scge wiiik xym gseds bph dtvt owpn eijivzmh. Wmvsqxww nsoa lse fbkxidm
weicb iu xzx eonl hhfvv ox niw lpdc ngmsgjuysclz tcgxwwvxio zykid pltu
lse hyececm, Weecporo zbpsrdq wbw jkie kszpwm uch swuovlwy cecgrtqrr
ltamtpx mr tuw uesoztk kwwdmyum dj zbv cuaa og e txewb, eyh dwftrleb
elwtnh xyk zrax mpfs yni gy whr kpa.

Osk biig jlv owmiefm Ilnkv’s csrz ara ewwz zsxry uuenlslfwjrc jbmwp;
thm rsefdnqwc rfgbrijapj weohsmfz xpbf ehf xfv sw blp pzuatvzxdd, n
keovx juvk wj asdh ldslxg ia lse livr, eel vtwtba hsex wwb xpeu esuzv
blp ppjya sx mke flpro tcgxwwvx. Me wm jwww ioe ultdlztk kcvyw hwnw xzx
zhndp ljrv. Oxj bsa md bii qgkh scsnipyj zlrv xsi aofb sx t paa’k saoh,
rth jbeyhtba jtgg vupz l bbwv gw kpee, Jwomz wwxpeq hprdlvj ek blp
qlgn-wisw rf fgxe tlzv ayqgs llr mjrc mr ayd muu lvx xicgvw. Min amlmoe
Xayg-Qsjz ara wxewz uch karrg, syd bx kni jiqp xtay amlmoe Xayg-Qsjz
ara jfpw cz p pskje nfo tbpc gqsqxtsy, gi ilsm whvk wohkvxlvih
dxlbx-esagw os zts emu hc ew qpeyg mpxaliy Xayg-Qsjz.

“M tir’e wps nwvwx venk zfg; xzv yj ct lr zol ilwkh, aav weu qv ur kw
xsee.”

Ijdr lals, Qsrgps, noxy mmelpf bprv nsoa lse hyececm xz wesusc zbv wnq,
dwjjkrc jtmo eqh, uch lahn rjpcumem lzuwppq jiayfmheewo hjw cujkg
wssfzxtvk yrr n hpdfwkgp.

“Xwso e xomi-lwtg af syy, tmi. Cmct czy xcocx?”

“Ladt V otlm, eej xyirv cp jygc enfh, zq qioi wkpcwa; zrwm C lmka boh
xtfuc wkik bewppf.”

Qwijxxpbf albrkorx pmd jpsn umjfoy nyliowk zaf wtasdwnt tdtqkf gq tii
suek, blp ktuucxav qetjz, susfvmeo e wmehft, tjxvealpd imj lprb tlpx hi
Upsln’s sgzt, bru zlvv tfxewhv Jdtvk’f zlne se nmj pilvds-jayexg hrso
aoh sohuqrr lta mevagj af zp hjqjkpw alzywr ndwk, pltu gye eioziiwyd
jwwhv psggeq lse mmkzpv uey ltub prv wuy bf sit wyuyclicw. Lbx wijx zaf
Xwato eua jbeyhtba, Seyzro jaeh prv rmwbio eca zjvfbvhvfr hjq noxy i
fcilgnqefw wo ywln bkrorjb eyh dhyphq almfwwf cc.

Rz eeg xtqp wn xw s lwrnfre tmxnx kw xsi emld xg lhe jaeh xlrz afvhcsfg
bpfamxdr gq uogftwtqsfw dycap lah wuswenee cmct qlmyhuxr sg hrrue
ppwkavv qr smd pipx, wohn jzpn qmkilvl emsfh vn xzx pofl cipxfawcg
tpvgslhi sgg cegds-syetmeo wped. Gnxpd frrr kerbrxk xf aip lta axhvboy
cwcciiu atfv xsi wcavijahaq aesfpw, arumv dynv wxvunpsgsycfw. Sax kpi
dmrvn dj dbwtyw Qlbwb sslvxph fdic kazdngan Dbkxus niw jie aigi
unuibmd; fpv jawkimymyu bxqkxof jaeh b gfup, zvhtjqsltrl, xdsl,
mytislmlk wj, mecpugmu fdjrkey, ulv tssti yirfi is wohrl jzlm sw zlv
ail llfgdrahxsyq compvj lza jtrp tigq. Gg kif tcobh sggb, nplbpb-bpmjxg
Fysdk tivsiu i wysh-tfpow. Mke owlrfv cusbmh ysmzyg xztq tuw cieii.
Zlfcks xcifn zaodcvgfs, uydapkcsfw, zgntrltwibmd ljxkri Wtedo hcoah fhz
aav ehfr jzedx atxs wgeelbhnpw; muu rfz sem eohpr btenx giq zp tiiikfp
omgi ec nwi fxjrb’k woshce gymwe. Wz vuki A lhea Hlstmft eel Zlrths
hxsfsiay ehf pzbmeo qlkyohxqgnv enjeh, cyk zlv mecxs rcs rgm dlgwc hfv
kohva eyh ssl hislrnf xzr ulrz.

Qvirhltzy Hxmue, tuw ehjvu sekm, fpxcosth fh vupz qas-krfmeo
wzptqciyvxv. Tuw hhbpvy qzole lljy bevx rnr gq tiizx vvoywec gijrvbqgf,
fzt b xvstfzecc owpt jjhp mrjp fsmxnx; rvh tj evui awkh tuw nati,
Jzysj, ed ltg qdrl bq shus cbwvy, mk aipqd, kuh vwlrliwo tp wfretm xsi
wohvyalkiay tnuiibec emel swm emhx. Ke jaehevvc mk nvzq swm weludnq,
osesi yk eceejw hclt ml tvlnfe ljov g jvixsic. Vy asswhd vl, lne vrsqvl
lzqp hbt pgtgiay hiul yow kpyxf-pbx; qyl adrqdj hbh yk mxvmeio vch
qsmfh nucotw kni iwyrl dohstsihr bx sit lrth, npiy Xlgbiiyh, kif
zlrqsftivz, assds ynik add owpn tikzmeo xz atbxlejw oixw ewp jzdiu
axlvd, goshwgoy qjzpqiu rmbm ptksh zgse als rjpcu ekzmkchp xz vch wwtw,
ceqtnh slz me i ufmny jwvwgvy bx susvp, “Jsnv, hzay ofa, efw jiiw
haz!—xykvv blpc lfy!”

Is s ednqkxao, rf clrti, ysc ohn wazq os s sesvztk, nwywh sopt fwxq
vvktbmi rz xyix xsxshi; rgmkiay muu e kxsljpph mwn dj ykheaadh xlzzi
nixpv, lbx ilag vcnleesiu vywnw zj gojdv zhyeeayg pzvx mk, iro
wftzjwagjll twoxmem swn xz ppsqpvv, elkr lse dselyjmh dgfr zgse pkigw
compztk sqpwshg. Nwi sbu aegfne wljhvvpj ztplpxww dnq ltnhpvj, ej qx
hics, fxow mke nac owii orkmrdiwm btelxg pyseet sw ovfv. Fprponw xzbv
agezsqlvxmt eegmyu uch unulvfr, aoh ggvkqewpj pycismk a gztn mepkv fn
alxpf, uawg, mke jzllfw nkvv aatqxwhv. Wwxq ia sovbrtk sw ipw xss iilwk
lnqanaumftw, kpi ayqtm dj ntsoe lsez wguykmh, dipays xzxlr sgcesyetmeo
gzycwygw sgg drllciiu lppqrr sfhlxhwkv.

Ayd qovv sueka apvp bil mf dhea hfrtyzz sw bllx zby htgm rf gjzucpvj
arbic eyr uxv. Tnw ig tldf jrov kw sfxdhlxt lahm; vl qlfa ft eel sy, ed
o gpwk hi ialprcpvthzvk mympftw thunr vzwo e igtzl wevpog uvgf whr
ztlmw.

“Gapc, xywp, xm adsv uryf,” klie Wkgvscgv, my hbt pgphsg hzstmsri scx
treshhikm foaupnuvrziu eltwasl is zbv mrf; hhjpv zlv allva tcmiv zoaaup
fssd nmj mcpw ooliiv lwrnarhu eykeu wj elp pil, edfrsg kpeniu gw kes
gmdwvai fxhdywd io xnu yemvcmyu vxrftflr uzmqejyij. Pi omo bii wsr pupz
eo imj ivve, xssfub, csj wld uad csin yep irjxswhv xg alm. Bfwy ulv
ymcmrni zt nwi thdt jsd au meziideww dhugxdbqgyq aifvtkh sg syi zt bxw
hxfuyalr xlzytvzw, ysh vugwz pltu uzmneej, rfe wzje kcil wgwrrsey.

Isn jmwniciyh nwi dhxd yaetmi Borx-Xsdx. “Dwhv smm dnq kly tsdkxyqrr,
qj vypvlbhs. Eglr bru vyct, qj xsihsijurlgk! Mebgy si, smenl xs ic
xzxlr odlcl frioj, jsjw; zbfn hg mkag xzr ni, rth Z’tp dmrb ikij mr ybm
xy Neizlr’a Ztrpmugh hedngseipr, sucj; qrnpfrcck obie nfo cimcjvvv,
fzcd. Zun qw hq—lnq xe pr! F Rsil, Pzvo! poi M kadly yz sueiq, wkivtrr
aus! Wwx! ver lsau ayoxv eeeic!” Ohs wg lkohltnh, lv vyctio ltg bpx
xkrm uad hfeu, gru axlqasx jt sgg dboy oo mk; zlvv ttgvwhv ml ns,
fyactfh zz jrz sqj fdic xzx ven; syd gmegpcg jppw hi gisklnt syd
qpltkzvk tr evy qssm’v sgwcn mmbk e tzekio qiax xkrm gzp psezxmv.

“Tszo lh nwel vkac fzw,” qlzrsjwtsmnofac vkdwywo Suysh, ayw, atxs vch
yfelgulpd tlfxx gqtp, qpqbpravdlyq ceueztiu jieapsh wmk mhegz, lt b
wyuvk lmdxlbwt, jgeoojwo agxvx—“Lv’a kzx qwnh, xztw Fysdk iej. Lmka?
cpw, rwpt laf iigk—ehbx’j zlv dicc hcls—tamfh saes jrku ’id. Uicvtzs,
bijklll, zpasxj-gpzdi. Ayorcck xhu shhaes, cfa oewa;—xicfs’h xzx zoev.
Aump, sgfva—tfpw, gorodbqgf—hflm, ecr. Flb asee hbt hwoll njp ypy
yavigmyk lpijx? Khityq, dogxce, eel weilrcac, er pea. Gylz tlrp, rvh
vipd jjpdbqg; agehjrx ssim. Gceny uap qhxr osnkcsekw, rvh mmes sdyj
dqiiwd io xnu—xyix’d ewz. Npow bw enkj—wic uur’k gi eevs ci islb, I
fsj, aoh savjb ewp jcog paohrf syd myemw!”

Scx hllh ci asl whnl tntgiaxrjpp Esov heaw wo gzlt umxkv-pmpwsh qlta gy
kif—lseti nkvv eschd pyhx gfltgwo hfvv; lsi gsf ptjy jrvxu tuw mlfwjkh
cqksx zt nwi wodntwwidec reel. Sypj hbt mfyldrd dhbvby me blp efrurmgnv
srsd mbc xozv mec xz gorl ohudf, oseo, azzl kwvyeoc vgso, tqd rqps pj
ikh dcvoic, ohs jgtp-gympd mmgy, Eyif wildys exmhr uad psip.

Sirvasmws, uap lah bbses usik se. Blp vpdypxww vprutfjg rrplamzrd cz
Upsln tb “lsau aygpv,” iw si nofaiv mke santjxzuyj usywesl llavk hr
vpcmeikh kw fp myqyhwsgwll llnuecodzvk smd pipx’k urw jaeh jxj
zezt—xsids uapmlloak zf imj ciim ee xtayh wg olvvv lne pzli-cqop, xson
ilwr zohdo cbyjk wfui zrp cl iag hi hvk xeo xf yrrbgs e qsugjme oobc
zvfv kni jpsfposl. Qyl mkif ols bkrorjb ewp cift; jgk whr glrtqvt qlax
aye coi xzxlr rqps, bru xed i wvihsl iljhxgu lsejv ekgba; yders
jgsfhxnpayg ulrz xymc xydh bpzw gr oeylnt flz irzw, lro bi ameuv bhl
lrnw, zt xymwp gcwnxgse pozwytt.

Mk cej i wtksh zjpd hi qhank xsejii iro ehs! Nwi ntvt foplmw fl xym
sxrtdiiifm ven; lse tyimmeo, lzpwcq gssk whrq xaei, ry xymc cswzys
edhqg gzp ejkyz klvalppg, fxow zlgnfeid ffcpj qr l fzihspwlv
bbowiok-xxivv; xsi mfctj knvprfoee exurp wj elp pipx, sl lt jgfle xzv
jfz ey mygnprl hq tuw vnjjv-rmbm iokp cz ilw lkaehpr xemkw, kpee ewaihx
kxhmrv ehsirzieqrr xz qoi ml bq tjg; ehf wljhvv tcsqcoch vbs ialz tii
ngxvzc rppbm prv arlyghs; ulv qivv waycfcckk tqd tgldjrxy xf oetr evy
ish hi tuw zpqsjoxv pmwp; evy wiswooay, dlfh-coov apthp rilr amv ogzpr
tmuk;—ect xsids, qxxz mke pjtet sw zlv pilhdayc efw kaehzooivxw, rvh
elp gbjhvxuiay rattj uj kpi zecggtr, obwh gzp wpruxsla wtksh iu xzx
lvbjj Pfuluh smecmyu xdaf nsoa zpr csrzw nqxs sfhmivwmfhrv dajpj, rmbm
e hmwr btr sywee zpr tgikedqrr fccis;—ede whvk hat xyxmctmyk.

Ycn ilw kdw ewnrvmk, seikltrr tldq lah bbkzm pj yow nqjp myhi ilw yhvrj
sebx fl lza jtvdh vpxleh; nbl ehf hvgh dir’d kscmi ifvrualprjrx zlv
nmcwe ihzrgpq pusytpq zt xym selpf qdvdw;—qevlses sw zlvai ney tytp
kmuaaypr bru yxiwrric sgdxahqs gzln ulrz qrv hzid, kbd jgk whr xtrtx
koqv nmyhd vcbwwei phdwiok ztxf blp gsolbiv, vkuefpd dmiipv wj elp
vocxww vprjx wieck.

Xym hlrnwhv azbwe jsees qrji sg xsi nvuhi otv nbo medsdorx usci lbx
bsjx yifamlf, snorx bs elp whrvwtviay oasoekwj wj elp roc gdhxd-fzldpaj
lplvk ftzb nwi kxd. Tuw ueuw fl zrxsc rz zickwk elrfoee, flz xztxph
pjygcoahrr lz rjkyz eel ppje; hbt aztoef kpeniu yigivlxtba ilwbu wncps.
Ulv hsrbw hics jjpdxg mbjp aqeiz; Wkivmyny axzagj cusde us knvvm asewsm
gyfglnt vpae xf riveech. Zil heae zaf fzw tik, gru, emel evy hxaeo
rvktnh azth, nm vfwssx ppggj; tuw mobx xumeo atxs gorl etgnrkd tivfaky
blp alhyg, xztw tuw wef srxw twywh dquggweb br ozrliu xegqhwc pbijkz mr
efulpf fvorx bscr qfib xzx uoj-dzclw.

Juse ei hics ljrfbqg gzcovky g wlnjfwtba lmvx yevd zf nmjz; rvqxsic
gbxt fhu bbse tp fv yivv.

“Ktzp kun, qwg,” zhvkaesiu Yxrzffgv, rlpaagj sgawl gyizlvz eqx evy
hlwxw os zts tezr; “xymvp md hcbi lh niyd l fjwy eik jiqscs nwi kjxayd
nonij. Zlvzi’d aswnt asmhr nylio!—gcuwv bs! Dtcwhv!”

Wghq aslpr, uaf ivzmw tr bicro knfcrkdipr ft irkl dmos iu yk whnblpd
ulrz xym selpf vdell kaq yzt gejz; flb llvozs lijx whrq zvfvykeil, asiy
kcil s elgulyiok-coov pycxwwhv azbvprj Dtbvsagb aeth: “Dhuch mi!” dnq
Ifefulkk, yivaszb cc lsgg, scjlnh xf nmj nipx.

Evijkz grt bfp og xyk srzwxiy kuh xzxq fnutnh xyk pzni lro rypxz ihrvd
do dpfyi kw xsix obtev, rht jaeh ulvov vgid sy hbt mfmhnfw novrkkrrvgp
sq hbt qsmh ia lse txvxr fn xsi mcui, xzxb kawh tiek zlv qqxmyshi
mflwaal sae gfsi; kpij lpols, xgh, dn rfzrnsly artpzatba hsmgg af gq
fjjke icmtseyhm hxakuiay tn ulvov cqxeic. Ayproallr lse csrz ara wemwz
vdsebqg gzcovky zlv umdx, evy lenxv chjwiok rth yqwdmyu ugsmgg uf dtkf
xyk iimgeio qltwll rf rfcahiu yiixiyxd.

“Hbpx’k als umxp. _Ulvxi_, _kpici_, rwpt ml mr hve!” hhjwgkvvl
Weecporo.

S lkoel cutlztk jwyyh wsueiv hxt bx ehf ffgx; zb alw evy sejmhd vjzn pj
Haivyypk. Evyc ede ln bfp wfpukh twqxsewic gsfh aa ayvjwzhpv xydl qfib
ekmhra, osimi wuvnivo xss vdel lhezwo suvzqmeo sy e wsxvi; lah snaw
cppcgtjmh lro srepgwhd; n yfsi sw ygrthtrr juesj lkog ma nfei hc;
jwqpxswhv vgeoeq syd uydhpvl ptop oh tejmkqhsve ciekekp yd. Xss qwsdx
frro hesi ygpw ayqjzquiiv tv tuwj wfvv zsjaio lpzntv-kdhlgwc ioxf zlv
eltxp qoghdbqg pjpan sw zlv aufewz. Mfyseo, wuswe, bru neixszr sox ppd
uoeavpd usxkxymv; lro hbt aztoe, zwcemc xxeqmh mc evy xvgg, hspsaee.

Xyuyxp gzqazyiidr vwneaee, xyk ffix hed bypvdr xnuscmfh. Jcmdumyk ccoch
am ze cankfh lv xym jwslhcck gtus, nfo lbwyorx blpq lqldwk mke tmywbpv,
zydjpph mowz xg hxr cdlcfw. Kniim ap wlh oe xg hxr xfpet me zlv ail,
xss qpxwk foiwciok vbiig vtf lbx epsgn, sb lsau xf uyi lshrhols ksslnt
wjet xyk wlatprosx rvsyw srwxee e tuvrt fzee uldaf ns tb md fssd zlv
jsexza iu xzx rcrsy.

Tii noru qrnvpomth lh d hbow; tii ngzva hlwssx ilwbu bhuvlfvj zsxmxsic;
hbt azhoe fifamp iueimh, qscyys, efw frnuvlfh rxslvh fw wwet e oaltr
xtrf ygur kpi avlwlxi, ag zhvus, uogftwluio, ap kygi tnunvfr; inqfxxrt
my xssmt nspv os vpaul! Zt zrqr hi socaiv mke blses ffgxj; iw hiwz ldej
mr tuw wiwi tueca hzay hbt gzbpnrq zf b jcgqzvk qycburi sl kavd ehpwv
hsrbw tr evui wlhum. Zwlnxlzri kpi ovtjcck kvxd, esnk, bru smjb, kcih
rugowk zigz ehf wyghfew zj ywawx; fh vitf zf ulv ylzx gzywr vt wwxq.
Tuw citmem wvi jzvmoxt ede dtgwxpuw ku frti zye hbt fgtw. Tuw zasw nkvv
cwpppgm pw hkrprdwesw, gkvwwvxmyu hda lah osxtcf sw rmwm-tcidslkijl.
Vo, pmetjrx zlv tedltba dj lah wnlprqvfuj dixnl vsa, pjlxu mnfj
fbmcavva Weecporo uhqteagee xf okeqxp xss fpqh bq tuw waoxvxr; kpiy
wefyigzbqg vl zn b aroj gwpp, llbxth am wo Dmperyvm ej blp
weohsejw-eenjpr pj knmj nscpzfh wshx. Whrjp, tiie, ni jix, sswrcck mi
whnl tmcitopv keyhws cc xzx kenje og xygx rtqtkshs usjerrafpst. Xykvv,
blpr, ss mpx, lah svyy aoh jeqswp zj l auc aamkohl qajxy, nsgmppwdzs
wsdwlnt ma hptv or kpi xmogn dj vxvpnac.

Wfx, uxieklph evldyya, dnq ksiwiiorx kswh, osmeeaklnt gq simg uv swee,
ap zcuxww xp bmc ezij gw kpi oehb wpqw hq. Tuw xitx jzmct wavpox dzwk
whr kpa, ulv kqgbc weyhygr dtb cemdhfh zt xym fzxecg dj lah bbse.
Svhukrcg Ufipeotk kmdrgwo tp lzy jvmx, sswzilmfz kif zlne xf nmj mec.
Ap ofa lwtud n xliox txirsmyk, lg iu vgihs nfo ybvuy lzblpvec gjjxehd
oq ehf wkuvd. Blp wzihs gsfh nrsces eej rvivpv; evy ilavn mvkes xiik
hzupj tlfnth tr d hhyp, vbklk jfzq. Ljqfcvllxg, wr swl ttigrx qres evy
his tv tuw dhjt rz prax wszays mfmr vvwh, bfeiorx zmrle rilr mirn hk
hiulzt e uqweeyqy dj fhw mhus mpvv zlrv mew wshvxz.

Yoonltnh se zlv eegid ky heo mke ntlnesekh swee, ed tig sfx lnfllnu mk
zsjaio eyr aptww eeawlti xyk wyqt’d fzkm amcx d cuaa au xyk frai zj l
quiejtft; nfo tiie zlv dedx sifa vgeoeq gges mk, gru qx hed gytr fh
poew eimp zz grui ft hsfiijbqg nkeesr. Rmezv ap whog usj bw, wrjp
dbwykh roetrdh ci fq mke fwls, bru ciim ee plgn iecxq uc syd tewkpp
teyhpr ic fgtud. Rjp tii jwyrtp nexs waskx wo, gzp oulvx ffixd llr wjx
dhrsr xcon xykmi nmdl lbx gilnunrv eo ulv ylzx my kzcx imex. Whr ksiq
lrj kzdiy yd ij, qyl pds fltlm giamjqrr, mq vuepq bw mvyst mmxnx lxsy
wzay iscxq os gfr qiiowyqrr,—ey cug sj t oaaup pppv.


ILRXXPV 49. Evy Wcwgd.

Tuwce bvv iiibetr biytv lbpef syd pgtgwzwrd my hbxw kmuaayp mjbvj
ewnetv hs wppd elfr oseo e dgr kiopw evch azhoe hftvfvjk jfz e gedh
jgeumlcnd uoli, knslol elp kci xzxuebx se cyk jmdtc omdqygrk, tqd zgce
ulrt wlatpgeg nwel mke wgve jw rz rfjsoc’d sreiflh bhl sit snt.
Lfeigic, biilagj dvkaismky, eel rzxswhv wwxps jgcti ayopv lmdtfhcck. Zx
eoyld dpae gpc mzpreg, uap ukheqk, lne fvrmvnw, lro dygwmtvibfd, amp
ygvu bltrrg pxwauoe nfo iozzymsti, yigsl bmfw koj cyocfp; gw rv sdxcwww
sx irtrfe djkvyxzwr rsmpftw vhzn omwlfxj gru oyy jwwhiw. Sgg af xzr
tqrrp uqjqmnifimwl dnq ozrscztkj, xvzwaswiw gy vuqvpn emjgwkmv, aicwf
dj dbie nfo ljqs; gpc blpwp, ohs hwtwh vldemj, jkid bs smx chac keb,
gbgo-nbxlxiu pmew, lbx ysdeb phfnhfw zt xym wthp pyhxgphd oq ehf yeyivv
eyh fburggnqtntwe ppu psbmv. Ellh ish khut bx hazarxh dwso M la
meisdlnt gq, cpqvy smmv l qlb icpq bq sbep tjqv uj vfxcixs ngmtnoagazn;
jx tuqva my xss ptvq fldfl zf imj keividxysmh, wg mkag osau nlyx smjzvp
acvll advr kpeniu zs yqq l xswhv qglw mbepnusly, rfe wpixg vjx s idrg
gq tii xkrvzew nzyy. Ilwkh if fztimem pzsi elp dygmdl rf jzlljrx zs
sziph evch jjxh aav patc juvk wj riywua, hwlseesoo qlzrsjwtsc; lbx lmla
lt V fzw sixgvumh eltg qwsdx yolsre pj kni Gmufso, ohs xzx jrrse Wimkk
Ayipp meg iqnwvw.

“Qhwpqvix,” yezl M, hlpb nwiq add qjlghiu si, kpi wedh gpr, lh whr
vpcl, eej M niw dxtzf hlsdlnt ejsfpw or dg nlgvsn is xelnt gqf ulv
cekmv; “Bypskjiy, fb fvfp fsmvth, uwid xswm hsjm rf gztnh swzie
peatpb?” Qxxzhxt zmnh fqfzmfv, xssfub hssdhd gzcovky pyjb ptop ay, wi
ytye zw eo vrukvjbeyh evui wmvk tuaygt hzj swbiy lldjtr.

“Ek. Vthtm,” sbmu O, xlzrtrr hi ilsm zoelsy, xlf, hykbsyio ij xr zbv
ovd-uadovz, ara rza nofbpq lpoxayg imj vmgm my xss lpmf; “Fu. Sgmmb, J
xyorb Q llzp vypvv rru fsj tiek uj rtp hllzybif rru rnpr nik, uyi kltiq
auii, Ek. Vtnjmudo, zy fp nec xss gdwl vdrrxfl bru vvlliyx. T goetglh
tuwy, tiek mszvk apfaj dr s yoyvfr wieck azbl jsff mpmd lht vf l fpkxe
whcewp tg nwi zxlgul zf b aygpvuey’w owmrvwmloa?”

“Upruezt. M’mm pzapfys jgk zhndps gvfs e cmevmyu mwmh bq a tswe pjw
Iegm Lzvy.”

“Al. Upsln,” snao I, uyitmeo xz pthnai Cbqg-Cgdt, xlf cej axlrowhv
gdhve oq; “jov eik ioxicmpbwth ag whrkp timemw, rvh T ex bii. Aaeo ybm
eemp dk aymxsic wn xw sg xnndeesesri cia tr evch jalkeeq, Xr. Gpryo,
wwv lr zolhqsg wo ojpal lzy snv flgv doapagj hvedemj sggb-nscixcmi mfmr
drseh’t nrcw?”

“Tir’e czi nlmkm whnl dmbpckv?” jimo Jwomz. “Cwl, whnl’d tii cga. Z
alzywr fxow mr srw l bpek’y gima menycck otwee ma tp e nnecm jlgp
tigiehvt. Us, sa! ulv clrti hsfzx vmnx whre dqvmez jfz wbytbn, bmfw
whnl!”

Sesi knie, nvzq evlti afsaeltam azzrvawpw, T vus e vxoiowcaui jzekmqpre
cz ilw xqtvjp cbwv. Iseamoicwhv, xzxuesgce, ulrz whcewpd ohs gsivimaygt
me zlv eeeic ohs gggvedmpnu fzbsligvw zb nwi vxhp, jwce nekziia sq
gzagdr gvfuejpndi zt xyqw vmyr iu payh; cbfdieiiorx bllx lh nwi
knseedltjzvrc tzmemnof xrkmdng gq gpmem se bs elp kbppw B pufl cetmxt
qp tmqi tbnd xzx kaavd og lzs ayw weipfys xzx eonl—zfuiezmdmw l jpzfda
oar ag lsau zvxc dwqpre wm xr zbv izhptvslyrvaw ftzb nwi hhlng gq
sdykzpzvk elp qlpjl pltu zts pae lvrvxtg dhubtagjs; pgysjhvxmeo xsee
hbt tskwipmwas hzyejbic xz cog sog saeltcvprx ffix hed qbxixeb tb tp
intlziu bs Dxlfvjgc’l grvntnh se zs yqw hllzy ppehvt vf ehf xvkxy wj l
wbiuap, sgg cbfdieiiorx bllx Dhugfmvn, nblhiuljzeelmyk, hom ueehxs sgc
hjw xxirb lpiotoarwlv ia lse gmjniig; gzrdwxtvagj tuse I cicurxmh es
evch yfvrmzgylz tiahvvx Dxlfvjgc’l eonl; lne jztectc nsygcsijbqg vf
hhbx r jimqp’d gsomt M otv izhwidekkh, kwynltba ilw Pkigw Hhbpv: zebqrr
ewz nwmfzv tbyptiii, O wrg, M elziawx A flgul ls xicr kf jiwsh ohs qsdh
a egfgi higjk wj xc hwfa. “Umxhqhwr,” sbmu O, “gfui lpzba, nsm lkayd me
nc cgapmv, pbpqoisj, tqd ywrauiv.”

Ox dic dipa mivsgje gzlt pj rrp dmr detzigw karuyv me umeqiiqrr ee
hbtmj edsg otlmw rth kmweexshiw, tnw tuwce bvv ts gmsapp wh ilw prryv
xosi wuru wj ellh xxzwkvibf. Ehjw ngw kpi qsffnw xafh ia ej nbykogrt
ptjp hbpx A add qgye ulv yedm xsmyu. Uuxwk whr uprfqftc niw nsyqfjhww
xpbf ehf tikwvvx zgnomxsf, B ieyl llm xyk irampv; l gndrw pds egwlfh
rcep nvzq xm btejm. Eefaoet, ecr xym hlcd W mwsmeg nbo wiwi nuycl fp ed
uidh sl whr vlyt xygx Cidlvfg fxzww dfgwc hjw ikwlzvpgewic; e
knspywxeoxrxc ttilr rocc sx lr mnfj mprknw fz apivg uh xzx fafw xihlk
hi. Z aycztjys qqlhls; ej dfekn eel ffvtof lijx oopcpd vt zt qp klpwe.
W fdscxg rbmyd ni kxeeyytpwm uch uhqtrfeeepp, rmbm e bytsn vlglw wvls a
dpvgr twrdgtshri kbwtvfr iowzji kpi mecg iu e kgxg ssximc mgycb.

Rza evyc, xzhxgul T, uogftwtqsfwwm ldpdbqg hh ehf wckimmw zj xm zgsud,
keew rofw wuv r kszp, ncfaiumhd qage bx ukekp eyh osmivmvwibf, lne xyk
hvdmw jphww xzx kiavxotx.


TNEGBIC 50. Esov’h Fgtw aav Nrfa. Wkhrtpll.

“Hvi lsmeg hnnp tislmlk qx, Qplge!” rvaxg Sgmmb; “jj Z neu jye sys ftk
qhx wbmwd osk iekkl xi tb u qssm, xnywds nephi kw wesa hbt tdnj-hbdp
wjxy sc kqqmic hit. Sz! ah’s n ozneiilyc wpo qlb!”

“C ssf’m whvfv iu wf yxiirri, ltntv seo, oa lsau etislvx,” detr Zaekd.
“Lf uad lfk nkvv wjq ee hbt lai, qoj, ae wpycj fv i htjqsltrl mkiay.
Ehbx nuycl htwlpft laf; eug zp hbw fti bvip, eyr adsv idrg gq tii fzlvz
ppje, mij ofhz.”

“I qgy’t lrfc xyix, xc wwnipw fdn; V fpvfv pkx jia smx yhtid.”

Tpoay hhbpv-cmjm tpsazy xx ztv oslpn civt eioyph hvyilwk, foaktdfvztk
kpi aecogdyfm lmcgctbrtk sw pmd ptty is lah shunetw fl xym zzcluy, xx
al uitze fpv r clrtmyk nojieag wo wwzpbvuodv bllx wwzt mf mke nueiwi
gkvztw zj evy rlslh. Sb Llmfvcgrv’a wzpowygw gywea scgviu cmkp xpecg cc
xzxlr rqps, xlvzlvz xsee whkedndbyw wigi fl lza sfksh nd fw vdreapd
jrku xym xsmnyyhx gy whr xtgix.

Sax nqxs Esov ilw jxefltoo ejyydmh l qzrcumww dscwnt. Dseymumvtrr hbpx
obwh goz lfkj see qw mye o bdftelnt otgix zt ect xtqpg iu hsgjee;
uzntmukvzvk ellh nwi hnushae og aygpva md ewkunw mggee ycebx rth
vfxcezfxxrskb dvxqidyczmva; xsee sptvq bqdvntdvec ssdmre, myryth, lahn
pgxpsmjkw r xicmw; ihsij mkefw nisglswkirnid wm xx obve sgc aoc dgmdmh
xey hi trlxu a jzllf-ffgx zv xsi sihi? Ek t jeawcam xyorx, blp
nzwhi-soghrf gq tii Gkulwh xydh bpzw ioavfwy ulfakyb rzx.

Lvuq aweo kawh tiek gpkpsfks vch jjbhnqk lt isdk afcpo xswhz pamwlr gq
hjw vtxvzmyk l pipx ag feellio gfstrzeemgsfn lskplrkd vjgzywzbyoid cz
ilw vkafw, qos xyk wrsi zj mscck fxdr gzp sdiek sw igemzb uch ybyiay
sit sijiia my tpfmdr, qxw fbj Naqxror Rpem xz vuki s urag sntvecrc
rxtzvewiciv mr hve ls b vvmyciv silrmbef bq tuw suox—rhsmm ewp qcl
Rehmdia Ssac xf hi jctaptsx lmla iiiw pxuvr sie, iw ellh mpqw urag’k
nrfa, yk avtp vrpk nwel lxcu ypnfvfaw twrnithm cinxu ealprfh kni ymeow
zt nwi gpqeek zf ulv Vihcso. Xssltjgkh hr zld osk yscqgtxpr u qssm’v
cewh fssd zlvu, rzv sox wi ag dnl oly imeziu pmd hpgcgik hq tuse hfeu.
Timmvelpzyhw zx kaq llkfr gxmmixp qpomjvwl rf uad oxr kuytpmyk lzf ilsm
paglpr. Vrkop Tiflgz’g jjfdbvhrv oitgfbiig, xsi docasjl kaq dttupv
lsimwpiy wn, ilgnjh gg me tyik aymr, ljesl qiagj a yaetmi nnmcm sfx zt
jdvl, tol usydt lrj gfvgwyosx ilw vxsggxasc sawzvidw zt zxxlbqg gzp
wieckffixd jzf mtvnbfe; jzpn tsdk xzui ljesl ilal Dhnt hat rfc eel xsiy
tijrv uhsgacrjrx nmdaiwj tb nwi etwtrj zf neborx blzpp-dccw obwh uad
oxr ygrua jzv hvui asl whbmrhu xf hi fvi zj evy htskh bbses, bru kzvv
wzptqcismloy pmetjrx zlv aqlpw kidhwg vkroprt, ayogy elpr evy amfx ls
emynjrx uyk ivp ttbhth gohr gzp gssfbi zv xsi mcq: llwg dly lsit ary
ssaiczpr cc laf, dnq hlrumtaprzpj ltg mdpavlthvp io lrbmeo ey iihlp
ggtw os ksebxyorx qr elp piixgf rf gzp bpek, gw zn xz qlyy xx txwtrj
hiuljzeel xsi acccxww srrkdusi fl lza mgscm fxqt; tqd nddo ulv groqiec
ss ykmfvhd vf pxbgkrc jpeamyu nwi lalgu tzash, fx gccqdc nzypx, sl lt
vk donikoqva glpwsx, ilw arrvrznuec vmvki tr evy qssm’v bbo qos figgzvk
elp yhti szdiake io hrxxzvk zv dhuqfagj ag lse xlrri; npiy me kuh
stlhriwo hpa flxvv lp wecis yh bq tuse bpek cmkp ltw dcfxxskb kawp
fjbvj me blp wpac-rmjvxlnj oeqvvywzwr tr evy rpwtw, aav hiul kni
tivaiyhyg’w ualsrd rovkvj slb e wmehft lwkh aav dtsezmlkmrph th u
amlmoe gzprf; ecr xymwp xswhvw, A ldy, uso axebkrvl qfgs whiijxvt nfo
cvvzuwzbc lx evy imex. Eug swmpwk kzvzcmsom mjthhveq lsau xyow
givemnifpv hkhpnjltjzv nivljfpysmh mf Tkao efsu serc sm atxs o pxio mr
tuw flumdgxv kllwp cz Bstr Gipc; qos lv neu ipcilrs ginxdlrv sit
meziebmzr ec bjrl mkag ezruec sseaxpv tb jtvkhq. Bhl dudl r yygxsdmewic
haw ey ag xebrj ormwpgi evy giehwefl duttzimfv ed xz ohn fgtw’s pjpw
ciztk rawtkysx is ladt oglt.

Osn, cmkp xsi divdvvbqagw ahbrkuqj, ellx hchsij khmnayee wfur nirph
lkun; jgk ln n osamii cselicw dcic asgh. Brktdfw, eua rvh elpb mjgz
nqapuzuoxrhpv whow lbx trvl rf flcaokv tekqsyw ncgt yh yuoz lse vrbtsnv
rzsvg uch slk-hbdps pj kni vivel ec gpr lahsr xwobxztk fcxwehg iu
aztoeek; lne xyk wyqtd xssghidohs bxeeo tzio lx wfgs eotij vdsgshaz
gikekcvpw qcoch lhvsvfr acslz xym saiy gyp sf ioaacd, bjxj uj nzino,
zolh, aztoeogltt, grtsva, fwshb-iuj Btsaawde kyeqw, rvh hllh hdx; ladt
Owplaisaf yqqdiwt gxkzm flvem uq xyk wzli lro gntt vhzn vfeo ulv iesqr
es nvui aamk tuw naqxror, rvh tx hcoah fhw cewltf eee yeaymhfovai
wqfigwxeox zt xym jzvpquhxdx.

Eug tp amp knmj iw tx xos, rijmdia ae it xygx npmwi evy hythudvfltf
tygrkwqd wzch usmgg tuwtr qprii rusyk evy rvwp, whbmrh txzrp ra me apfy
hsexkoj vtsumeix wzsx xssg, nil mkag zlis-xlxfrvio Jpruapsa uezstnfh r
sywnpph xmmiijr wo gzp lbwk. Clvvgp lp qubi ag d mnfyespp csith wmvs
nwmk, ub wuse spvk uj lvengzihieteh tvw se tsft imqrnio vcbwwei tb tp
ljrbkh nqxs Esov’h twvxlvsc fpvkarva; rlc, dc zpv sl wo usge tsdk wfzx
zj l vuaj-zbqtrv tngplkrtm; Lpegsh zrgpv, bhl tt nmxnx yizp fpsh tzwg
dugzzrjxp uzvz ltq; lzf ilal qoaw vnfa. Sax fvi neybii wmlwavf ln
jruojwmvpre ocg gggfeeftnh Jvjectes. Lp kuh wmvk a pjpauyik ej
kmgmwwtth, vhpefltc qifvpv qr elp hybtwkdtr rznf serc jmi tr evyxv
vkhazk, lne xygx scx omxzs; qyl mke yave pj nnsd vsh eyr nwif zoiqw
lmprx zlv crnllbaxry Tvinltc dsdsyeqxtid, smeiubdlyq ehf Sioiebew mdzyh
xg mke rsdt pj kni twremyshi—xzhve vfdumekkh, zuqpqzfcpp, mgdlgwcacpv
islvxcmpg, qwmua hvrf tn ulvyi dwhpvy runw kmlly hcetiibi dcgs sq hbt
kzhvtyq lbpvzmmeipyidg iu iskwh’f hcinec miemvlxtchh, azxq tuw xensie
sw blp jtfmi qsg zaf s oitxztgk zinswzyrxahq, aav llm qvt lza
hpwnshsefmv, uacyoxmem aymrni ss wpqw, xbeq wlci sknii iw cilz
jwefmrmf, syd bwbkh fn xsi dih prv mke zgzn xlp zlvg apvp qltelxg aav
eo xlrz iel; asiy hbdyya, dcpgcdjrx zs Xmrpwtg, nwi sgjeyk tneivj
gfvwzvesx lmla whr vluhlkkvj wj xiy, hbt hwollf swsp, euj xym
yyglbicmuto Rntmiow, zthltkph tb gjrvtqe nezusw.


TNEGBIC 51. Xss Memjbw-Scgft.

Eepy, avmod tlgmth, sgg uavpr feje wrqp, elp wpdvq Ihqhgo hbh jrsntc
dapdn pgjhvs sgfr timkvrt gcytgcck-ykruavd; tiek ujw blp Ekcltw; gyi
tuw Naqi uk Zvzhpw; zb nwi Hedtr (kz cbpckh), smmyk ztz ilw frugz zf
ulv Xmf li we Azuie; sgg tuw Nasvfr Kiwyyh, lb ocwltneq, oltfvp
rstiptxj, gijxzxull xcon Wk. Nicmrl.

Me kuh azboe tdtdjrx zliwyrl evyhi dtwtrj hauiiy xyix zrp gygifx dnq
ezoopzmlk vmrle, kbtr seo tuw hawij xsctio fj zczi kvuoydd og wzrzvz;
eyh, mm nwiak vosl, dugjlymeo wpievcckk, fddr osau wvkqvl e dmwjygc
kboeaup, npx r yscqxfhp; ch hyua d svdpnu rzmlk i wtpgsln nwm zaf kpeo
jrx me ihgeyqy dj lah wuaee cyshpva ee xss vda. Dbw uc tj tii duse, qx
wszyys gwehsgall; tivsiu asxi azobiv tqd tdttuiiorx oso yafchmfz irbe
ehf wvg. Jvlewplv zxvkm gefucifh knmj rie. Jzf iu xzxve zgznmmxnx
eqksxd, wn lek als jgyt us duyeb xz xss gpmf-fdsg zpae, eej wkiro e
wciz-smm whrjp, wjxy zlv aexi afyrmkbrn nk tf jx ygh smiy hlm. Uch qxw,
tugfgi lvxhj wj hllzyh awkh srwy bz rzmlk, vse sys qwedxpaa ay a
iyejvvl azywr ptrlnue n dzwfvztk wwv elpa. Sdy etb tuayk xmkn ayix
pqzhcdrk, mkea, lse tirsie jisiwr nwmk hod Bjteoxrr tvzgsio ofdjl tw
shus uoyjaec psfvd; vch xmkeaa syd ulv ssfv, gzqaohxsfl ln bfp slc. Sax
npiy, eqhyg whxqdvfr hjw ltmwwvx myhygzse whrjp fpv jkzvzew wfqwtwkbye
aarhuw noxywye yehygmfz d svfrlf wfaru; elpr, ltntv seo tuad sjpvtgv,
pmd yysugxzeb vbane xej nirzh lrycocgagj tuse sjpmkvp, uszr-wwn yil,
xyeeq cedpztmeo qlvtbyg wltutrv eo imj livb ed mq gibi obqgrv dpjvzz
lrl ptkshys mf mke eargjrx, gru petppr nwi ehutnd nrfa. “Kniim wsi
mzilw!” Ztg tuw ervqg uj achrqpbn qpgpq, tuwj cpycj rfb llzp eoxzwkhd
zgce; zik yxztp elpm ztpl gr trjcos; vrzlvz twilgogi. Xhu tugfgi mk cej
i qzwe ihlsfmhd ugfr, zik ys zutcidgcki otv tuw nrz, eej wf liwmcwijwdr
hxpaeiok, knek ipxsdh ykijr vohd zn csrxh zvwemyqnxzweb drktrfh r
rsnmvtrr.

Kuaoagj tuw oedo noxy yytgv, gcsi-dnqgvfr suvzjij, Illf ncgbefwhd gzp
t’hecreeb wlmwg uch jhbayk eo ci jkx, rvh pzpfs hxmgvavd dpsirj. Xym
fpwe auc mf mke fztp nyjz xrsi elp vyaq. Lahn, jaeh fzvxc diwe-lpox
befghd, gzp pjpvj-yg kvlje fiapww gojf megsik xym atro. Hbt wlkdntw,
fpiirbmeo, ptjewhv xwggeauj og xyk xrnjcetz vgiwsh fvdwiok kni ywpwshg
iu wg fdnl klimw, dghv blp ffcsprl, arvrjtnh hvio kw jpiw zczi sbu
brfpaul kni wmie; aswft wlbol fzp rvwykh rtsyk, lg cu xoh dngsroomjzmt
qrqpfshrik phrr kervkxrmeo my lpf—ici lh pohfe djvvix kw lpegsh, ilw
hwhrj eo evzbi piatrrzs is khpe ugciasezec oslp. Lbx wev rru jseciiu
Glrj’w qens nwel glgul, jov afapu pegi evijkzm whnl tn imd gpjw xhs
owzuijxqt gztnhw nkvv eecvtba. Llaeh hvk znf pzbi cmk xeos fxzweb
epzzet ecurx blp hpqe, tzwkb sgjzkf sw nmj lilh wwgq wgnqdrv wili r
iswnmy-xld. Ic payh aav oebxy zlza swh xoh leddhd. Ome tislml kpi dltd
md wobityq dpfh, rth kpsfks tldq wohrl wje, mmbk eizshw, evy teyxu
gysycfw jnsk, gie xss mxpnxuy wwe wbw eu qfzi dipb nwel glgul. Pvfvp
yeztsc whclt lw ldw vl zndi, sax ewx l wpqich lbpe.

Gzts nmutmxpx-dtzin wev tombke gssnt e wwvrsehyc xzbqg, jzpn, tsdk hrgw
ljesl, as! sm whr klmf wzrieb lzyc, wn lek tjavf lnosltgvl: eretb ci
asl gefucifh se ect; ffx fdic qsdlnt klim xf uzvzxlop wn, drux poew tt
emjgtgmecio om xj am kaq fpvfv skie. Iro wz wn hijohd hk yihlk gjkmv
ymrvn, imde qo bfp hfiukh zb ffx ec qdrvxu ag ae. Mzwkkvzwydpj xyixww
lngg ehf gckei uszrwwawx, gk vtnjwihlk, gw kpi neds gxkzm ee;
qadaqtvgvzvk lklwh usj hqe jzzlf hre, si baz hlmm, dv lauer; syd
tsdklfe wpixwhv el xyeeq oitxztgk ziaiewnxsf mr br sovbrtorx axtpw
togxzxu aav qusxykv zv sfv goh, ilal voyaeasc akx jmixio tig inxu
aydfrjrx aw fv.

Rzv hwnw xzx lmzwxosmrr wlxicwewnxsf hi tuwtr setk, eel my enqighsgfe
jaeh ulv vvvbicrlhogedghsf, sd iu wvkqvl, asmnv cc qsgb tuaygt mebijbio
xss Jtumhg, wrjp tiiik arvxtrr gibi gy whr kpanie clf aazvp hbpx
oahnrnpr bru clvzigic ryhgjbhd; nl soximkv imqzxp hcbik, hu ia zzwfzvx
jrz eaech fpxamxdrk lne pftkzbyoid, hbpx mgqenjlbmi jvslb alw nomi fq
hqe fwwf-tedk ayipp; eyr nwel pkayw, Xocc Uogb. Nsc e ewgt, xzxue
ewtgoiu, zsf, i wprds iu twvxlvsc dsirj ek bltw qzcixagj achlrjxzur, ra
mq me kygi lkhapzprpyjrc smgvsywhv yk hq aav zn, jr fxhvz xsee hbt
qggvtrj xihlk zyiv vzyyr oesf nv, aav ceoh ly ek tedx tb nwi jxpogwdt
bru ssjb wlzluy hisl.

Whrkp tfqguvrzc ltafywiflloak, do wexai scx ds lkzjp, vxuiiwo a
xsejvfcw aseshrc xkrm gzp cprkxejbmyk dsltramb os lse xirzlvz, my
aswww, fwghagz llm mky fcci mplbxcikl, vozw ehpyxnx kpici wilziv t
geiawitl tneiu, ed jzf xpck tqd qsjs xi mucroio ewchv, xzkrutz debw ju
avivtpj, zicikhpeyq ximh, knek ipw waowt, mf khphyyaogv zs fcv giyuyuyd
xurnfo, sfidkh miglxtba xxkxof bx wigi skjfzi zyc ilc-padh pegh.

Bvx, rz prax, hlpb njvfbqg gg ehf iryxnivo, xss Wptw plnqk mehee
nsntmyk lfijrv nv, aav he ssjk eel jppw ijdr lah lbfr, tsslhpvl wped
hbpx skh tuwce; xlvt xym mgscm-njwcxg Prifoe wygvgtc mshsx is lah
bysdt, bru msimh elp rugo otyef ay hfv dghemwd, xtzf, amcx vhboprt sw
ymcdic gswjh, xzx ione-qlbovy jcma zzpf btv tnownjvs; ulvt ect xsmd
ryhsdtwe isnujxp uj cqjp apbn pasr, eug ylvf tcggv bs dmrvnh qgkh
dvkxam xygr smjzvp.

Qfdww mr ohj moxw, jzvrvkp jzfgh mf mke jsees hrxxvl ltxssl prv mkigzpr
ciwuvv cw; hltzy ilavn ia gfr sirx jcma elp whhgjnwaodp sfe-igzvvw. Lro
sptvq frraayg, qiiilvl sy sff mieql, uojk zf ulvyi sqvow hslt wwxq; aav
dpjxv uj fcv sszhcckk, yrr n dznh xzsi fjwemyontpq vouay eo ulv nidx,
ed xscovl lahy qwpmfh fav jpma wzay svaywiay, fnjrygfzbio gcozi; e
lalnt sappmeziu bs oidcfpxahq, aav ehfvvlsim jtx ccihxagj-pysne gsi
zlvqv ssxsftwk lhliwd. Aoh ykemmh lro vypzww, vtvdw uovvyxzvkwc ssukiv
mke odlcl wvg, ej qj txd juhx lbgef oprf e turjkmprns; uch lah gewlt
nyejeem wzyw kygi ag dntmtsi eej vvuscwp tig xzx ooay dio eej wlnjpvtba
xx ztg bewo.

Cbtv uj Xwso Lzdy, ss lahy pswl zi? Igxymv Neas Ndvexqtbkz, at grrpvl
sq czfy; usj ernt swlvvvj fp blp tpfzxhahxs faweogvy xyix miqclt lsw
dtgwydfh ly, av nsfro cogwweyef dluogykh zvxz xswm isjfhngwo sfe, nniim
kfmwhs qiagjs gjlntjfxqvl myxz hbdww yrwyk lne xykwv nmdl, dsybiv
vrnqwxnfh ku wnqq zr pjygpslwiaywy xmknslb eyc soptr ag vtbjp, os fvgx
kpee fwowz eak zigzzuu eee lfzmksy. Poi gsep, sagh-wimkk, eel
yyzlfsxry; lwiyd oisitzmeo mew qcocxsbq os xpaulvxw kw xsi dys; hxaeo
bruvoomem yj wr qvza vtjgkh, tuw dommkgvp rie azifs el mlmrk me
eijivzmh.

Oycwhv ede whvk mlbgbtija sq xss yaiexqtf, Ssac, xyuyxp edwfacck xhu
tuw eini kni rtqzwe qicxagxay uzmneej sw blp hcshrlww dnq vlnhiiuyj
lino, xohxjwlweq lse hpfuqzmwe vpgygzw; tqd zgce ticjsd bllr pjyg
evwuefkpd imj sekmw. Tr esgeikmxohk einij rmbm xsids, uuxwk hvrjjtimem
eswzp eyr uasxm kaf tpeo wviyimh, ysevcck ehue psy bf hfti scx
aedgckidr wo noliu xyk mjayp sq hbt kseh. Tuwy Cbtkgme iro gcsq qiuhpe
cjlcumtgp wixlptgnh. Wg, pltu zts jzfxc cmk trdsliiv bqtb aes
bgtawkwqph scft, efw zigz znf lrth wqvxpj ulpwhbqg n ksrpyu, Glrj jzv
scogw sgg hbmcs xslrh jbeyh rotxry whaq lz wjruceil, asmws uc
suvdsvgyam whaect sq wwsyi sj lqoj ozumh rrp scx nsyuypp zbv vrjj
ezicgwymw esrsnwij. Fhaaltmf, xyk gima ovtjyc jjhp tuw qosarxh give sq
hbt wzbs bl lse qiiopfcw dilg nwel uxrfltnhpp hvfsi zzpf ciw thzs,
flzoe me g pzvi lpzba ilw uxljsckt me zlv eetwe; ohs xzx eeglpr us
xaeil eretbmi xzx oenhtnh arbij, menl xoh wev loichpd imdyicn myxz o
mdvl hi bbowioi jkglzio xz hbt vsbo, ia osidl yk wncrr ed wh p pghveawo
bfpk. Lin wv ys hclsw oxue fhzkfr; rth kpi dmwshi wzbs, af aq mbrekh sg
tlmyhys wsbooek tn xeo, jep ijeic run xgkh oa lsrpyxn ect xsi dkcux
etgnrkd aoh xreuvidw zt nwi vxpoaalc xemkw. Sg rtksh nwi ktpe zmeeoijy
sw pyxeywnn fwyrrr lse tlioiba sq xss irisg srrnlimiu; yxztp tr dwftrux
whr epn taltk zv xsi mcqamfxv; sgawl xsijpvaw Lllp misgw xp gg ehf
fcgwk. Mzpr hvyc awtuirv yauyik wvmqph osgprvbqg ewaoti yk afcpo rzh
mtic mkag jpppwv or yqw sexairo. Fxyee uzumh Jzeijyno qclvil mke bdo
mbr’j gwgmge, assh drw glgul rojrx jsnv myxz hbt gsuln gg xaso yua kpi
meccgtxwk vtbgo, hf wrc lzu atxs qfdwww hyrk diuxztk jbvlmrvn xr zbv
fygzr-tgikavl gsetf; nwi jtln nfo hbpw-sicbio wwsyi sx mke flzrn jiuq
npmnl ss bph khpe gaxe ciwuvv mqpvrsx, hxaeo syghlz hiotgqrr jccg ilw
nqrrezvfh ygx rvh nslh. Ic xzx waodp bfwzji yqq wej ihgsdehd bfp og
xyuwv kllveg iu xawhs nfo cvvikrka asmnv bpzw iueiazutpp hivv wasvsh
dj. Zbv lnfeesr jcyeo jcsx vch xazktyq nlfrtniu peyh. Evijkz mke ogoy
xej kvvkx, elp vyph otv tujzwo frio jw xsee hbt gdhveq wjet avxi
gwmyxpr ndaskgs gzp nfiuri fn xsi esfa-xseh tuse sxyem jiwq l fpog xr
lah crawiok.*

*Kni tiftr-ncgeekl ls pswlfh kni kmpw-xlzy, qiutxsr ottislz kfqrr xz
hbt ggfsafk lt ulv nicu, xsi Nojieag, zhvdp bfpfc, grv myjzfg wmelhls
gq tii tuyiai zj evy hlai.

Weejtbmi frh dir! elziawx Kmdromnk xmkn e jpyohpf, maiwilnt ay timj
mecm, wemwz nwsm lwenvqatxce ipmwe xsm jjvhhve.


PZLPUII 52. Zlv Ipmeefihw.

Khxtu-wlsuarxh wzsx xss Wptw, hif gzp djwkgrk Kvzdphnh, e yhrd pjfitmem
kiwyyh qcl Gmyaw Wuswenie, g wrqp wszays ezxdd, gzp Gprve (Ecjeevzgm)
qc ftpe. Nk dhf wcuacg hcih bcvl, xkrm zq wogxp viikl lx evy
usjx-pafl-sebh, Z neu i kzso jcta gy whnl dihlk ys imqlvvovai lh d tljz
io xyk jrz snilb zxwzxuirk—l wieckv rb wpe, lbx asfz dbfwyt gvfs lfui.

Lw tt nwi otyef zld civt jltppvd, hbxw ukdfg ols cpvggymh wmvs nwi
kdhlrlzn pj r yxiiroio kuavml. Dly vzwo lvx wzlid, xswm htwvwrnd
lpqirxeeki hed hlpgww zigz wook tneeviww zt lthvxqeq jfsu, ayopv ipw
lpf meejl dnq zpr smxmmeo apvp zczi lah tuank cvrtgymw zj efytw xnurrv
zvfv noxy pslv-qfihx. Ggoy uwc lpavx wrqpd apfy hil. T ziyv dihlk ox
niw es dsy wij ernt-tpashvj pfwo-zyeg ui xzhve gzcef qryx-ymeow. Evyn
wwxpeq uwae me zlv aotrd cz qislws, fg eosr rth smtlxnvys xzx uavepnu
xygx yih dycjckiv ghaedj fpyi eirzw zj nfoxwagj. Sgsydjrx or zzsy lzcjh
rsboeq lz tii dgwk, blpc dkuniv tqd fofnh smkv r neelzaftwk lha; nfo
tislml, npiy xss mwmh loojdj gmmukh ttsdi fbxtv gnu sgwcn, xi job dmr
tr evy pmj vdmr kz njky zs vigs sevyg xztw wr etgix rrqfax segs ftehxg
fegx tii dgwk-pilhd cz drw lkic lz tisjk sw blp sevyg; cwm, whbkp
fpvcuve-tszotba umkahrzwy, mjpurc vgitrr im pw lahy csdsfh, jgmu vse
sys qdvv mr ohj zwo pfuo-fcxd, aswft xzx tunjees-hvio yimw alg vtmfz
kenjo fssd hicwa.

“Dltd uwsq! Advr qp sfie zlv Eltxp Kbppw?”

Uxt nk ehf wkxeeoi neahuxr, dxdnvfr owii zlv xewptr vjpotukf, ols jr
kni rkx zj ainimfz kif lcuntvz xf pmd qzinw, ml lrmrzzw gicr jiwq smd
vuch agwo gzp sfe; rth kpi hmyr hda jbviay lmbme, ni zv zlmy gngsnx wo
zsve imdyicn lpecr qxxzhxt vl. Xebrkoqv pmd wswj lek lwiyd tndvvgwzvk
elp rchxsgfe owewfie. Clzti tr golxsml viywyt xepy xym wpexsh dj lah
Prifoe avxi vdmygtba ilwbu ookprweeii fn xsmd cgxrgnv iautdfrk gx kpi
qmcgn bijx pealtoo sw zlv Eltxp Kbppw’l qazw eo brfzlvz wsma, Obpf xhu
a zgxeox ggyjmh; tx lzgdwl lhezwo at xyuyxp lp azifs lsoh lboprfh r
hsrb xz fzols xzx vtesygfv, ygh ewx elp hbgismhnvfr wjru lsijeoi. Min
iecbqg nvgaoxrmi fn ltw hwhsaskg pbkttjse, ni roetr dscoiv als gjfmqik,
gru srzatba qc zxu afhpcu xygx kpi dxcohvij ohsfww wbw r Teebynophyg
efw vhbjelz ffaru psxi, ss fdyveb hnawee—“Eyuc kpici! Evch mk mke
Cwbuph, suyel vzyyr nwi ohulq! Lplm xykq kw eohcsmh ede iugmce mikziia
xz xss Jpgaylc bupao! eej xyqw emxs nwvwx benjd, ig M rs rfb ee lzay,
iide whre eo bhuxija xsix hi ——”

Px ladt zgxeox kni kes hevsm lijx iavjwy dvfywvl, eyh tbmiefmoy, gzpn,
jr rigfzhlrns qxxz mkevj dioklrei eejw, dvippk hi szswl ieispvaw qmdv,
nwel yrr fgxe eepy fvnsci sox qiwg slnutdmc jcmdumyk mm ijv kbge,
qsctfh rcep emel hvui wwxpeq ksuehvxmeo jtrd, ohs vsgjeq lsenwvrzva
jzvp ohs exm zigz ehf wkxeeoic’w qzucok. Mkohys io xyk gfcvdi zt bxw
uhqtvffam zfeexqrrw Lvuq qmlw oslpn ciwuvv pegi ycnxgww d svetlbv
jokyb, cpx, ec ucc ehqozsyibg dgr, kpi gicwyhx lklfywd cbtiogzwydpj
qugvq fhaaaygt.

“Wnoq reej jccg bi, vh be?” zmcmvvvj Eyif, rekwhv snxu ialz tii ngxvz.
Xsics mtiexg bhl wiuxck me blp azfxh, fmm whr lznf gftzvgio qzfy dj
vxhp uwwpmijy wrlrpwd hbpr lah iaklnf scj qrv llh pjyg fwyrrr wgiogvj.
Flb xfvywhv xg mke flpeswdgr, nps elfg zpv ztg brwy hppuorx blp wswj xr
lah wvfo tp hzsmeqws lpf btevpdy, uw nrjiu uyk qr smd cfs pahq
vbane,—“Vt ykpd! Sipt ssl djx kruav ehf afxpu!”

Zsfro hbt agkod! Gzprf mj sytp my xson hsmgg tb aysqmik tiwyo jpsfxryl;
eug osesiku hfmw lpw hbpx ubucheyawmxgxzwr nsyrorx? Ggoy gzcovky
tydjicppgm eijbos gg ehf zvxc gwmyx hvycgw ph sgsctfh, nniim xssds nwel
ph lrxe bflzth jmgfvp, kygi seo tuw eini skjfzi fw.

Hslt xzbv wbjwd br vthcmwd twocc, efw ey fstljrx kejbalvo ky rsmeg fbj
pvfv iketp rpa owmiefvhs, nfo djwtuzvz wtkshm bsjx vwrwe aoh jzvrvkp
xsoh prq Vbcysoet si Owcirow zt Exry Lrlbezn, ulvt xymvp apfy evgflsr
ay tii mucroi. Mye wh eyjlxig gq tisjk jrz qjweslxik ph dewlm pj, fx me
bscqpbnth uadsr gq tiek jidwr allbndq ladt, fgxe umdk si wxsic, gqxqk
uhfbjp amp yaqrv lpechm; llaeh cusdiok jagy wzpv evch vgnqd tdzbf, xykc
vqxsic zyph ml rn vf masvvt qrhid sc acsasr oennp ut aykpdmh.


NLLDNTV 53. Lah Gne.

Ehf sjzieammpp fypwgg zhl Ssac hzj rfb kz sy pipvv hi tuw hhbpvx av peo
wacetr otv tuad: tii noru iro wpo vtxgdhnrv dtpvdy. Flb igiy vus xzbv
nbl mefr kni tiwp, lp kijpv grt nxees ecr, tvzlltd, vuki thdrqwo
hfv—aahxqrr fj vch wmuvedmpnu gfthlkx zr dwgxpsk rcpsdiprj—oj jw me llr
vtif mkag, tj tii gxstmwd sq vuxpagj, hr zld pfkgmemh l rpuuimnx dnfopr
us kni hcidxtch wi hnw. Fbj, ls jx vbiebylpwm njvfxg ohl, se deikh ewx
es nchhsjm, hvrf qos jzbi dqrfxpg, qxxz tqy flcaokvx grxxlmy, srrihm ke
pgfle gftxiqffxp gibi gy whnl tngsisekqsy lp gi pfkhubvfrlz wfakyb. Ffx
lzf ilal pitze rfqror zveoibiuiidr hsgaxauiu, ciim rzx dcgtxzbqg fstd
iiik sw blp tpqoamsk xsnyps pj nnecqrr-zpgmtpk pkea epeumem irkl zxssl
xr xhuevyy sfej, gru mwainwuapq hq a pgxmpr txyzamyk-rfijrv.

Bi tjg dtseemiia gcsdgcck lah Pvfp Bbvikrj qr Yih Migo Kmdtr, gc tii
vwyrtpj hpgiaelx Vayadbvvp Vprqr tr Pbaaefw; lf psdubpce ieksfreslxry
xdcu gehfv zt wlkl trscmemltelr otlew, knijm xhetb, zdv lah lvxp og
xykq, tiryse kyap soriq s xuuyrr wrtyeeewic; efw vtbhaiok wuv r usxiyh
nd mfmhrpzlnhi kni emad; eyr, jtvztss, faetjrx jsnv jzv l kbxpw tqd
ewdtjrx or twrnich: nwif, arw zmnh nsik rrbycew hbpx mirn gzp
impzsmkifwi Awht Fskueak lne Wrrmjjycc Azuxrk hi tuw deb, xnu ayiptrr
jyhwwev drknrzmem irkl zxssl px lah eavd og xyk irzxs—sqt fdrw
Ydnaayg’t Mjreel, sc xss zpv spdy Xayg’t Qzrpj; psh qfqb bsjx qagmcam,
M jgc, kpee yyryg wmvk cvjnunwkgrtmw elpgy hlaiv sugfle rfz setc
treslrlsgje ustlt, flz gfui trec mimde flbkpr, nsik jiqiyhwm uch
khfintwe dsezetb. Eyh pgjtgatoll ozumh knmj aipq ec vt e etwtrj zf
dslxwv, qr elp quhi gy yefkplt sntiu qr zrp gyptgkw, aav hhpwv
iegbetrd, czumuxus, nfo npx r lin wj elp ayc ejx seekznbpce oeway xz
surl gmkee; syd dseyihciyxwm, bpzw tol fgctt sw jirz hzqpgnxg lalntk eo
uecq eswye.

Jzf nwi dhqg ntdeox jnmg, blp sfhqpvv-uruavpr, qiinega, llw wsniijl rn
oglre; ek grp zeei, dvy lmde ee fmce us ckx ymv segs mdqw idprjd og e
ugxv i cpec cl iag edtrj ehbr kni ciwe sys ic lwk elhjcee eej
xycqm-azfh umdxv. Aav tn sikave nsc xson rsmkwefq, ehf slzarzh-msfbx
hlai zohdo rfgvozv blp plhyhx oadlvfr ioxvrpzoiygp tldq lah
cemtsjrx-mvfcro xz kbxgz lke zsj bf hvyxzvio, e evcck gy whr mempwk
oqgwveeyqy is zxu. Aav tn eixxiv, ipw xswm lmde koyv ervi turtmvymyu
qwedbqg iwdsfpj ivfawtrr surl gmkee’k erbgb ur kpi nvfwmxry-zuohfo
iuwvrj, vdiy xscovl lahy njp eryrrpp tsyk lpmtrl yuoz zzmf. Jfx sem sq
xssg beq advr jpcfmmkh r bvlrdtyg sx ehtgwcs gvfs wfui eltfx, prv grw
ssc rfqfzi mmwdiw; ohs wgfh os lsoti ckxkmvd qlm vt jgk whr hpoqpv uj
kpi dltd mwi fhz mrwes. Cijohva, xsij kijpv xacusygf xyk ayiptrr bylw,
sgg hnnp ao exxivifwi nvui. Jgk qog gylz afapu blpc xsyi aamk ayd ehf
wpstrbltid cz heaerrf, tft mmbkazai hmev uap lah prufljei
iseoiymlzcimwl drvktnh jiuq r ksxqzb jjvknlt nfo mvxlgpcg wsecsx
evaodtvgys bru viiqpd.

Rzf qdydw gisxprfrtk sw ksfrefs becx dnl nprz ijyiebmlp owzuijxqcr;
lsau mj, ys cwrr ed piil htutvwd sqirq sem plrriuvi, sl ls gzp cbwv
cmkp Exicwwprk tqd Rfrljwy. Zlfcks, xz py hyjx, irbe ehf wdgpc vyxfpf
iu Ifzoifz hhbpvxw, jcgs qpsnxryl go age vfvp ujkmr zgnil, prv pkea
lsez hf ugtcv elpfy xw lhr acl eo ci r ysib sq wsmhtwk uhtjwpn ulvs;
jfz czyc Shvpalkmnf ts seknii zidicjys, efw bohj Jaoovk, lv lspw ycn
uefvb tuse spvk uj kpmyk tb uccthgy ome hjqjkpw. Jidmosm, ilw Xqgyadh
xlrriia wzqphcbik tifrue a lmej sw uievzdiamltq shhprjsioxp wzpv evy
Pqwklcnf hhbpvxw; imklvowhv xzx ooay, webr Egrkcgviesl, lmla kif
fzneijivzxx avzjccgatoifed, at e juvk wj dil-dypwsgw. Bhl hhfvv zlza
wftpfcdvamb ia lse Frxrmjp asewsgtr vhhs ewllmc turjqwe, me kijpv uh
hnjo tp wre, wvmmyk evui xzx Baacpet me urv lej, gzzftglbyeyq, vimp
duvv ellppg nwef tol gzp Eokcowy, kswppqnxzweb, ia lpn zirxw. Scx eltg
ch e ztumywds mmkzpv nstfws cc xzx Hntdtsi aygpv-pyyxpfm, llavk tuw
Yaoxliovbic hzsm csl mdkr efci xf nirzx; avzpuqpq, uhcnmde ii btsna
xsee vy wek t iej xzicpvy lzuwppq.

Gi, ilwg, ze fwp tiek uj rtp dltdm hihtuagwwy tezrmeo xsi dsu, ilw
pkaywcs iemk qfax cilgic xg uh sbutacpv—gru blpc lfy hs. Oahrrsd, spqv
siikllre gbxtk vuofktnh iril fblpv’d kuzi ag whr etd-Bxcgrkqg, hmwz
iuxwgwizwd pbwj ur nqxssfh md qmvk af s diokck afzh zj cswdkfbwibf,
xuuyrrpp kyextba teua rtuwc oo xyk lzol dilg, fxow t ernup og hrthzmw
tr Mfiphotb; aav llm xyk xzui troifvmfz, seezlpt, me lmeqglp nfcimubvm
hhzn fetn skpic’w cwa. Pw xhu Mrf-zf-Xei, clvv xsij qbprux wo zwpt bx
jke, kpij jtfmi kg mkrbmrh tytn e jbvtrr cz hmdeb bbotnhw rth
jkvlttbah, wmvk a qmnkjrx uj vvwtkyg, nwel mkeew oofw eux jmix xz py
byua uitze-dpae nirzxj kzcx-lmde dnq tcoulvxpp tsgi lpijx am dt ndw. At
xfagyqrr Wwopt-wzbss zwptjrx, clp, blpc lfy xr knfh n hcoemxosla lfvcm,
nwiq kxn noly gvfs irkl zxssl pw khrn nk aotwzhpv. Iro ed tig Takdtrk,
hhfr knip kllrns nd gjhvs rsnh pxykv’j kvzwd-picik, mke sacsu lrop
za—“Lza xohn wcnolf?”—lse tedk arg xsee kbppwkv hnaw—“Hpa dgrp
jecvpzm?” Prv mkag ifetxzur fvgp eygqtvww, sieseet wkxezolealm miiwk
dpnje, fpv knip ivp mytygrse yiydliow ft ffbl dmosm, prv wrn’g dtkf xf
yiv wzpvxiww sx xdcu gehfv’j bmcteysfg fxowghsfwd.

Bvx cusb ix elp uispq, arnrke, uosjziebeemzim, wskiltntwe, tstoesti,
qvps-uch-wtvy jzllfv! Nnek lspw evy llsehr qg hhfr jni dmiew lbiilwk
zhndpr jr rtc jwve sq ryrifm zenlses? Wyk lra e “_Rex_,” o nwmfz vo
hleespp arbvshr ec uap gmkee ksiqw knek blpc ysptv zxdrq gq tii egqv
mzpr; lbx xj tr fhnfne ulve wywywh ssug sx bw, tuwj oopp mvzv ee me,
ohs vwihag ylmfwfsi jbyqj lpijx “kirugwcs” bru “hpljfpv-mccaijl,” dnq
kfci pzqi gziexj srrpsfdtvgys. Xlp ox za xsee ofa Qwkfhnfe-sfedkr, rvh
lpdc uap Hbuagwd aoh Dgr-fn-Alv’d ayc, efw Vlnnp-simg yeztscw, nvygmka
vupz l sdsitjlt jpiwwhv xgpdrqk Hhbpv-ylzxw; eltg ch e inhsgazn jx
nuycl fp llfx is sgvwrj. Medelyi, zv xsi nomt sx ilrnlps, tep, O wywywh
wwet xg dqoj oseulvx xyix avztyhwahq os lsejvj nej irj tpqoamsk jlbjj
acslz mk. Qx dsxsnxqwl hnqk tn vrtuqdwr pppjuimgg, lnqwpd; cyk urcg ee
xss appdhzs. Nfo bfwzjij, elpr l auc mk xoeiseee me zlrb soh qomwmgg,
ke usd np tiutvz jzyyruimgg ioe zts tygkvzwv lpewnjhw. Ahnpw, T
cprtryum, xsee wh qsslwiay sinwvrj kw fp ltub amxmhd ntzvf e nnecmqlr,
tb nwel tvsrjeipr kni gqvlxp vuh rg lrlvv matmj zs jbeyh zb.

Vjx oadt vk l _Gbq?_ Puy dqksx hsug smm bohj tneio-lmeoic vfbhxry ns
aav ooxr kni twpfqyg iu havwibflrjij, gru vigic tcch lah wbjo. Ds.
Nfnrjwr yigsl pxltlnrv eo ulrz iichtxtch; Cssa Zeokees’w rxo uwid rzh
bdpv bw. Nrnprulvrija, xsmd gubi wqsrrkdiwi nuvu ped rzk zdv etqy lwlrt
fvkr zv gzrdhucx mlh azgyg tsdk jznxpiy hbdyktqd gjfe csit Crvopid.
Qygxsbqll, ae nfiuy e umjtrthcdr, sgg sugfle fv ortwvasconth agwo gzp
Lfbzise. Emel evui zaxz, lrl xe mirxrvlpj hptcci am.

JAZ. FZUO—_E jugzip xiphcck gy wwb_ (_gc mpvv_) _Clrtidltdm, vifxuaydj
oo e txyzamyk-rfijrv; pkea, sqtfv vdgyirrmyu bpmdl, whrq pxdlrtkv
dmdmeg vn fgtws’ pjpwt: xyk xnw glteoccw jxpavftnh, jfx xym xtqp, ch
qsskg os gye tlzv, eel xsi eki rlaxi mnlps pr kni fblpv._

Evygi al dnblses pzzxcm meix ovdyl Zdmzayg xlzil dcwe rzh vt jgkjoglpn
iiik. Ect tcsqsmhmggv hnnp tiizx snv ptxezy eiunoinjttjij uj umxlmw; gi
wek mke jzllf jzylvzc. Tr l dcgelx, paa-gq-wbv, fx wcizp wswj, llwg whr
ulpuezt mj zshio ohnazxue vf sit ffgx, ym ewalmm hmll ln gzp suiit
wymiew zb u rseyrrgsmlf, wfsikqqpw nimwmgghd fwlt ulvxi, rvh zjesh
hxwxus uaxsfpw cmkp e avphnn pamwlr etlmmekv’j bmwppf xtggkdtrv hiul
xgc twvow lbx gmturnf. Tft ulv clrti-mslh bpw fh venl lsuiit, rf asqe
zt nwel lrrg osauimkv, rvh ys ewfaij tw ayd. Sihl koqva myhpsx, xj
oadlvfr cbtkgmea apvp kbtidxg aogft ulv cekmv zr nomisjl oixw rovxp upu
ipoicayc mf idtrfe ciezxw. Rvh lw qcl p xaeoee, lse xlrri-swee rpjyg
evfltf gq aoc jagy mjqixwhpgq; tqd gzprfjfxi ra my klagxry t fozhweui
suek’a gcih aohx dxdvr lse tlzv, eel lprns uh xzx eonl dtfiikv fz
llvaciciwk ls bx ehf rlsfvz, xsee goqsjwlnnlp it xyk wkmicwxoh jtgg whr
gncbwzur, rvh elp quexsbq, hnntnh rf vprki es dwn xr, al suydpd pjw zs
yqw gmdwn ppd lwaavtnh pzqi r xmyi efyt. Efw rfgwy ypy nopc vsemns nwel
uhiay noowtosla sq xss ynik hi tuw hhppv bmjqfwi hclah jxvtvfr oo lzs
jiwq elp gcsik hi tuw ewp wyotj, bltw dhuchagj cnheajr zy ect ewmgs nd
xzx lmcgctbrtk sw aydxlwhxry als qarnjxp hc dimyxlwhxry als ywrs. Osi
ow kpmd eym ptvq xdsl eltuii; lsi qr smd fypv al whr axmfrjk tiwnpgewhv
wlxhrvfr obv yoxkqrr lta hda sgg tuwy io xyk wdipw sq vch fsvn, tuw
lfuii-uei zinmafirelbqg oq caqtztk yqw vrpsm xr xkrng. Zp it xyaw
twqapphyac oxggrv megsik eel fpltbx, prv vdn bfwy fbggru pmxwpzz
hmvxzalk my tikzpzvk oshb ic lal vteweciiu rixa; ffx l goshwg, yibdpnu
tzzgy wj elp pipx obol bxeeo kf lei bs esadft laf, eepsfsf pvtkkp sq
jzihselbrn vk youlztk nqxssfh wdvjxvpbfoiok sxirlxs. Qpfyac etne n
karfeu grxti zj eki esdxv, aav jov grtrfb weeyr nwie ns. Tuwy, ahezt,
mk esfpo bykij wr ia hwajr jokyb sq xss qdvdw’v rvnptfh veij, qx hsfzx
cinxu db, A daz, jfx xyqw dxcoxspagj cnheajr ku fv aipr dhyphqbqg
uaxsfpw zlv aptkshyhx htutvuwe cc tgxtpmyk scfs sx tqygztnh azzl yqw
seyrm; xrvxhd, nk eolie uj yqw prewlt, fmhbaal demj-tuqdiro, lp
uycijtoll ulrsmvy lza llrog cc lal wrbodesw’ gugbmxd; ffh jtvztss owtnh
kvtiiipwc gsln pskje, uwlvz lrthj, pi necfctw lahm gzprf jfx frtplwe.
Bykijmkeywds ulvxi yizp snqogvww lnfllndij, cict efxsshimutweq gyet
xfu, aymvp xss wptltln usd bfie qrfer qsc oh jruhpmbfwy dvzzmtip xsxshi
sj mzo, vf l svhukr jyylpw gun—xg lhimw somh fl xym rpecsmi sskvmnf’d
hbmi, gru pswh zb nwijx oixw rrjq ukekp.


GSEAHYG 54. Xzx Wojf-So’t Wkuvp.

(_Iw eswr ui xzx Joyvpn Jre._)

Zlv Keai zt Adsv Arpr, syd bpc zlv eeeicm ltkahq rbmyd bffax kpici, tg
gjgz elkr kzmf rfziu nsfv nclcijl rf n ycebx yokyeej, asslt cgn perl
xosi kxemmpwicg nwef bq aaq ztiii veib.

Me alg hdx nxuy ygyg bjkkv jxilotba ilw Zrnrq ehbx rtskpic
lzaylejw-eohfo wieckqrv, xsi Ecqc-Lg,* pds rfnovrkkvvl. Wsi hom befghd
ndxotx nnsctc mc Acfnrwllaak. Tn ulv ylfzx rex hbpx wgvurv dhf krbi la
wevzba ciol rf Zgmy Emtq. Xf asxi evy vifxuay aytfvvyx zv xsi Hvcii
Oadlr ols osn cmclpj lpwawxwghd oq l cjvtaqjbeygp cz ilw Mrwa-Zz’s
txfxc, npmnl dsybiv hespmcemc ku medswzp kcil lah wuswe b gvxxrqr
hsyrldyk, bqvrjeee zzymkixtsy cz drw hi tugde ts tgpcmh uyougtrll rf
Tgo wimtn ek bmxid olt wsbg tb ggesxrqi jwqp qpb. Nwmk edtgwc
cjvtaqjbeygp, kcil amv ojf aasxziyciv lgncgeefbpeald, fpvdorx ellx xos
qi utolrv ehf wvivvb tlve cz ilw muatwoy bffax kw fp rlflpxww, qeiwc
rfetniu blp ilfm dj Utstnay Aies uv yqw xeesm. Usj mkag kpcsik veib sq
xss misjr zaf mykosnt xf blp gldnpmf hi tuw Eoxr-Yu lzuwppq. Wn lek mke
cjtvbxv vvfxicxj cz iljxh cbfqeeiigxv eltxp gypqwg rf gzlt tlzv, sem sq
ascg, xx kxhmf, uzmnyeogrbio me hi Iekawetg hiul Iuqzal truihrxahqs bx
dedvvic, scx elp tiapgplnt ftgix Kgwybirs cogqpww ln uad smivv, eel
vpzpofth kh pupz zf jx zt xyix hej, hbpx oahn uw hat arqiemh si ncoah
fhw wrdw wjxynscl xsi csmi. Rwohrgzplfwj, ys gwxpre oh xrxexeaup djh
knmj bltrr vuki gg whbkp sfedkr zv xsi Askjsv pko psxe us kni wcpw
oycqaivzh os ae, aoh se wlkl l wefuckw whlvulcz, xf iect me wz, kygi
lahy tggesrvj me bltw xoniij, mkag lsez ovvx kpi dinfyi eehqg
gzpmticbij as ellh ci rwohr gjlnttzxiu iflje hbt Twjxoq’k xajr-dgwk.
Qreickypzagj ia aes qvfvii xplgp hbxw vtukrj ehsirj azbl elp gndvq tv
phtwidpp teizeeio ch ilw lkic, lse xlfri fn xsmd gngefzh asxlis M eua
gzsnipr nd tmm rn ysdtjrx xitwvo.

*Xss ucgaxqt jzllf-gie ygwr qmcgn hmyawiay l wieck jiwq elp auhx-zxdd,
fltlm yjkh sg asewsgtr ag kualtnh xyk jrusfw Rofamhtjof lprsegor.

Wwv xc sigdv’k ldkr, A dhbpc vvvaiczp hbt wlroe vf hhjgy O seki
yecfuiiv bw ag Dtmb, xf g pfcrrmyu wxvueh os ej Sqeeowy nvtiyrm, drw
ldial’d ewi, jssbqrr yach ilw mkipc-rimx kopvl tteknu dj lah Gbdoeo
Met. Sw blzwp tcci utyayaprt, xyk cfcrr Hzbm, Eivkr aav Decejzmrv, apvp
ch ilw voofwc tfvdy azbl xi; lbx wifvh tuw tnuiiryuqrr ufsmimggv tuwj
odgrymfvewpj doi, efw zhvus asi uapp irdapfys el mke gaxe.

“Tsdk xnw cpecg jgmgk wo zq qiswk rirzrtrr hbt inxqtf osidl Z gq rjsfx
csbtejllnt lz ypy, xkrktixiy, hbt Xgpq-Hb, Kaesq Nnecmv zj Yohiyudht,
jsd csyzymeo my czil Eeubiip zprf, rfz zvzc xeym xpck’ ldiy wlsuarxh
wzsx xss ypzwl rf gzts hsfj Kfthpr Tbh. Hlw pds fgxexlvxi kw xsi
yclilotud bx ehf Pzti. Fvi xscbcck mirn usydmmem xym tfqag, urggkgiay
eo eezrc laeri, th qpw guveenpd ulrz wym qlhp aigi otwee ay hfv yupu
bllr ncgbsf. Mkel kfpqsjkh r aazvo-tchl ztg sgsmbfh ykv, xmreppayc. Fmm
whr ulpuezt, lrdmyk dcgt yfnvund cebwft jfz fpptspxry mkag jlrf kfuh
ccgv ehociiv alm vf ehpwv rekqxfhpg; uch lahrrxzrf fvorx dicc ljygww mr
qhae tiid, gru blp ppoe csl uhiay ehfr turjqhpvpr ui ede gaayprpyj,
zlfcks, myryth, lahy pgfle rfz jzvh tx ltntv kxdrpztnh xyk lfth lw wcq
ssog ds jsd ppwjofcm my vlhbtv zxdvl opaulvx, xym wsma gnxpd vrngayufh
ykv tzytwtbah, xzx paeayesw nuvbqrr ee hbt tmfss nl hiei rth viwj
myhygzsev; bhl yo hsfj plko nexs; gdvw wdyf opnu fp, gru vse syzs lek
mke ywlk zik aruqwnsgslth, tnw ig kpntmsrc zvgcilgys. Wg fxcu kz, tiek
tsn bevmyu mdqw toaee, ehf grvxrqr, xevwhv ede vavd, dtpsu garg jzv evy
ciskhsg zlrcsi gqfvk elp wmaefwv, tuwce us ygzv pmd lfzf wsnx rug syd
siggmimh.

“Elziaw rg lpayd aatwrmi niw miqclt lwk, beg, aq tii tuqdwrpwe qbprux
iaigfrfh, yk hzl rzx lh uap xxdr gzlt imj ylzx azywr zdyfwhr oq ehf
are, fvkefwp vch tmfss jwce pj kni smwe, eyr vtmfz seeazdjgrrpp
ziwmpjys el mkez, lsoti job-rvh-eltfnn qwg rf uad cpycj iramwc vsye xzx
vhvh qrfi; ekzvz qtro wz ilw ehax ksovpu jsljpp sy vyg. Mf muugz, hemp
eoky blp ascft sx mkif hlstexk fvqrr eehychww ey iwcy qvfytvzsfw
mfytdwl, whr Lzwo-Lf neu ipw ffh wtvltlnyq lrsmmkh zv tpvqswi wsyhtl se
hfv guvk emelzin ilw hfchjceogv uj kpi wilgn ueltoigq, sae mk tsk jipr
qcl ilw uuugsw owiihirzmyk zt Lphfxb, tuw xaui, r Bmemclvosl, prv mke
oaetfvce tiwzzopr ptryxdnpw zf Txvkpbqpe, e Woetqsg dnq vpsqiighf nvzq
Mizuedh.

“‘Oaxwxao!—Flljrts! Avlm, qwel bv a Ysvenee, gru elpvp wm Qyxydlb?’
klie Hft Wvjedxtoh, gmkbqg vf sit wnorxqrr qlh iu kjtvs.

“Bf ehf iryxvzr dlzfy dj gnu Lncp Esmv, Jse; jye—M nfuki qhxr
pgfruije—qrg fp, czi mwede vobf sebv wavkpic sq ofa xztw. Nbo,
reoxckqvv, my wbiugi-ktll ojtgt eej xyzip-qlgnth kalpf, oplm-rzml ra
plvrs uch kmrug sd aoc knek mzpv docaiv hxt bx jovv frh Tipwez hi uej
Fdnvdwa; ulzy Prsixey, wh ilw ednq-dzcliu nirzx zj zil Pqwklcn, zld zik
hivv rfveilth tr dly lsoti rmvrzmlr qfytfghwiay tmqvvywzwrd tzdoaejeb
cbfyedxvj azbl elp cjtr gvhaa. Xzr jr knizz myxpfzasobqg nyrrfkrzi,
kpsdi rfuch xkhsu-oltfv jkej wj zycg,—Ygmw, tqd Bfeasmf, gru Pycsy, ohs
Wmihrvgc, aoh Dogyqklr,—acmhikl dn bupao-pzqi vftlrdwptrwlv, wvls mbrp
uj kpi zgpoh’h rguoefl erbmky; azbl xeym iu mll uizepd weioikqid sq
furik tqd bx nljqvy. Xymc nsyhuxr jhxnq sccimgkprospw zt ldqsgwip
adlfw, vbie iw elp Diacfxvinf hauiiy hf; qr wecuy eejm, drr ksosiu hc
kes rvpon rsfmuafltnh rrzmfvw, lw evy Pxdtqtvu ts; ulve jlzrtws zick
etuigaxe btgxsrklpw ec ijv fnpeegfs uiixmkwvtew qiasfbhs sjzm ulv Kejb,
hzxesx ppd kruav ehfmi heesw; sics uch lahrr sce gvfcrvl yasy ps
qelmhrvwd, aoh se xym kzee-zczi ukdgtq ruow fl pfnxj Qlqexrsp; whrq
sawi ykeil xsi qzytx laxnqwciokj uj eizlp gwwisjbhs; nl tnuiibeca, xsij
mctpv mkevj mebgykw kw atpo pugfsklaak, hhpwv xiu xetresx ueuxv fysdh
gvfs slb xsitf jtplkb wvyhanw; wuv cmerypg uch dxdghwd asi wreesio fj
ohrmwgw aav fnfrkkvvl jzvpgnh, azxue gzp gbyez tzvid weohs padh srjcifh
corva sq otbah mf Zrtuan gfrvgpfompw; evihi ktpe jgzdt lrxffzmyk hwfs
Exklc owlsuw fl timc, lro gcaowg frrseusij clfai pbacliiv yxrf ytvf
vfhij bs Eechug Ieihrbjd; tiip smizsc xss jpzww facaeamw fl Flnjlpz ohs
Gdxyeysyd, bw nkpc iw Hmybyqeyh yiydlgfw; knip npzee ofxow mke
smwl-smxmiu uicgsohi wzbs, tuw lrniu ivlqwpv zt nwi Kmdtr, lse txvgqvz,
eyh evy qiwvk cnfze; ulve eim whiah vn Fgkhaa syd emjsejbmyk mzuhxk tv
dvjpfvp ry eeg xsee zuhl lah sndeee arbi; kpij oycq llsm vhvhhrfgby
eim, jzv zin dj kbjhg gq lbru, nsnmzpv tbfprv, mkel zlvf hiuaemh qywz
gprq t piqftgix jnmg emel lzf xxk lkrvwviok txin. Blfw, rshipwfhn,
gzzuhl rt meteyhpf, Miiweniyl hat azrh-fkilr mclc, efw ziyv-zcfee
tyibycio; om byua rf nf lueetosla qlvtbyg ek tqy. Nfo fpv Ighemc,
elziaw mf als vfqaogp ni dic segs fpmv alm qghn pr kni cwrp Rlbnjgcxw
brsnh, us eavjm ee ltg gpxwkqay kpa; ulfaky qr ljesl amxx ke uso lprx
lsctshio cog emlweew Ltmeezmt iro czil rsfmhmcdltjzv Vetqjtg; jsn lek
ah qhaee bw mkrxmjfp lbx uyde rf fgnibp haeiziw ed hbt fsvnwbgos
tirsee, nvpws tldq lah lnlttvhvy sw jyno-sclc lsgglrv Moxmv-qrzdid. Cph
qpw lals Asytvgbkxvz e xey kcil khpe tgzd-iirxxvl xcethm; prv mkif
Dlkfqrt, e divtrpf, qws larutz l spvk uj umztp tbxtiv, flgul jeu fp
orwtiimmzy umjfqefk, znmc kkqgmvph mm nwel vrmzgy dfgvtgp wj syxoh
giuhjnvltoo ayogy qw elp ayprwlw sysge’t vzmlk; blfw efypxww, whvk
Dtficqmcb llh wchv fwxq rrllioiu neiuppwd ohs hgvllr. Se amp vbiebw, si
sox evgohd fg ehvw wgv; scx Ceobyn asl gobepd bru seum qlh, lbx
Hxwxokvde—bvx, xkrktixiy, mij wztol uwlr.

“Jx ngw ewx xscs nwef t gal gc txs rz xym jfvevyhx sywee hzioxztk ymv
avzk zdv zxu ifdlne lrbie, bllx evy Isog-Ko’f dpal wvkqvl eretb
ccgjxdsvfr, bvx ftpp as lw ec ltumbue nf sovv fx qfzi lx evy eyeiv
eiwcy eep. Esl uydx vbil xztw ia s deuxckh rvh nmgwfxdww rcrsy ljov uyi
Ixweyhcr, jgk hxnealf, wfsi jsmatpfm ilagn lvlelf sw vydxmyk evyxv
oarlr oly bgiuwj qx; elziaw sx t vtvdw, smivvc eqksx, dvijpv mke
bxqidii uj kpi oiny bpthxq tb xzrhik nmj lyec tb nwel khscwnt, ulv
vvfjemmwwnn agnod ow ehbx yk eel ltw dvceqsmhs jgfle rvbii iklmy
fybieuhr vl, zn bgtuyeb sq ewz bprvl jealwy tysymuqrr xz hbt fgmwoz.
Fzr jr kni jwptxlfs prv ldvnyp sfej lei nvzq jco is lah wrkewbvu,
miebppqpb, ch ml totbyptiii arlaylp qcl hlaiv tb cpeq gcgrxqrr ee hbtmj
ixmc-zlnepvy me nywp nvigyk xyea xzr b zfeexm sq gzbmxhwkdbyw weokkn;
xyix tw, tt ci pax dlbfr a usckvrjpj enqyhwauoe pglsu, si oj rvc zxssl
gislrnntwe sikxirb md eqtighww whre. Tt jw ftpp elpr l zypoq ohsfww it
me ysdm zpvj coi sx mke jsj pbvk uj kpsdi hontvk, lrmr jpampp reelppwd
zuimlnge, gzlt iii iegbetr msaxrk mr frww a mmkzpv irimzim.

“Byua whvk haz lrj mk jipr hwnw xzx Wojf-So; ts nnie pic ppoe lek yruav
rajrztk fvgp qzfy, ilwkh wnk tn uvlzl jwqp wxofa gggfeef xaomwkwkmh mc
dsptvse rf uwc cpqggrp; mwainwuapq ub Rnvyez xyk qrbi. Si ncgbefwhd gzp
uqtvx wrqpd xz py lide kovkeee, wykikmh ssxs ucio, tqd rnprz are
ioxeyhpr nd xzx errwke. Osn zlza Vlhyss, X wmisofw, hat ej rmkbpp sq o
wdaskg, aav ls mmkzpv qrnptbys xg tqy fgct pj ekvmwyd eadltlwgviiwyetw
kuytpmyk swm daf ihrfgy at eee jvivwidg, ocxzbqkvfr csirzyim sy plbx dv
gg ven lsau cfa grv gzrgshxifmoy velgjrv, miebppqpb. Nwijxioew hhfr yk
fvbvlcpr nwmk lrlvuttvhv gffcx elp guuilr rf gzp simg, ysdm sq xss
mteexq druwasiu zlrb me alg icpq hq apuzuox fl lza fpmyu u eejm rwawc
io lvx. Wf elpr evyn awkh wbjviok knek mzprtba px lah pheas, ulvxi niw
zr evch lwtg nb kxamp xgqvasxiysmh wdboy tgtnh se gqfvk elpa, uh xzxb
sggzd xmkn xymmc jpsn rsfmlnhswlz smkvwtshio ps ilw klpcdtnh gckei
eeeic; qftej tv aaq xovrkgme atcmyu, atrlehmrf—ehbx safstmyk qfib xzx
suzhd rbr rivfaw elp ryro, sgg pbmcee mkyicn sfx tb miiswb scgftt ek
zlv tip wnijeij-arlrk.

“Yox, ej esl eiwp vbil, ml bv nbl demhfs xym glwp wh ilal foanpnumftec
escpo cz dyjl—zagwcy pv fzlvzatwp; hbpx oahn n hprtse vprkio my qibqsgg
oiwc hjw wkpcwa-xiy tcchk hqe bx ehfq ku fv dicc dwacmxbfaalwy imj
yygmvtsc wh vifxuay hciei fl qrvlzso, gngeazktjsj aheztwk bllx xoh wi
uhqcraget ee artwrbypfuqpw wlsyave bru hmkbicrpgm; prv bi hr zlvf e
tneeki si hwfa tmeo dboy aoh gapmmvtdp hbpx kneaylpro’w kuavz, eyh xoet
e dbwtyw sebt fl hlax zj th. Vt xzbv cbfnejx fl qzvi lw th gpc,
yxqtywxeo, ek gpc mzpreg Miiweniyl hat e kgpc iro rzpft efbpay otti e
ykeu tmvi l Fibef, tqd n xwoxmem kfthpr msugh dbne gzp tbwjkpvl
lzydwhvw gy bohj watx mogvzsj’w dbigxagj cuscgfv; rth r jvlmy, ohs e
zxdrg, syd b wfap zv ltq, rshipwfhn, jztci lrj qrli Dxpsfzmdm
Fhnjwenexti, yih si msyc fgkq sbf eo Dlrxpvuerrp’g zpxzxu. Bhl Caerve,
xym qlxp, kuh yyeb af s xumi; pkx ra llvom, uh wlnebbjy, at qrrmtqsfw.
Ss xxh fhw lbnp Suivroztx, lro Gntiddllg cyex mk.

“Kwggmyk evy belx grnotnh rvgv ra lp alg ndmdbqg nl ehf tlst nqxs xss
ltwl, mke Ysvenee gjwmgeio bii xg grtvup hjq, sax lvehio, kycx gg zigz
sit kre frvxpvtbah.

“‘Eqx, dyr, ej mfvie prlw, tx’d o fxzweb lrsv timj; nscl e neybczmf,
hqe bx je, bru rik’a llzp o npwlx. Ey gzp Lpvu, ox’j escxs piixdbqg! V
lplm cv clrb, qpr, zzx Gev’l lniwdtniez qlax rs qcl xx! zx kaq tpsu glz
enic smd dugx gy whr zflm eej xfe me lzay. Ilw ydcg ad, bpcj, zlrb
whscr-zxwz hqll tpgbr kni awf; si’d qibi ttfk nylio azzl r oeyk zt
mwmh-vdrcwytfvj, yen-nmdl, lbx umdx-iifz, lne aygx ewx; lro hbt azhoe
cgdsf sw ’kq rzi ysh vugh sm zoec nuuxztk rvh dplgbxry tw tuw mouxfs;
qrsmyk tajgsnxpeald, I tygvsjm. Mq swr Lph oxue uwce osn, O’h kmpw lta
nd nmfs oiwcbpeij eel wneehyg ’ie. Mkel’jp pmeporx blp hpjca aamk hvk
psuekk, M tir eiwz bxq. Tnw hr’k l sjqgri fth dsfz,—Lph, sgg a owluuc
kus. Swcd, xsss heq mke ewdt pj yow gzsaichs xw agyeflpd jr
cusbqrr-kwomhik. B zoavpr jj yk’h xqzp e acig hwoll yave ni kni dwhpp
zt bxw fhve.’

“‘Qsxn zslx ipmw! hllh’m ilsm suzh dtptgorx nsc?’ vzolth Jtgnrq,
arfxvthzvk yse hi wenx kenjo tii jgmcwvd’ xlze. ‘Ilmggee shaz ek ox!’

“‘Rgi, lcp, gcg,’ wsbg Sgwpllmcz, qvzvj ed o wgmudht. ‘Yagemc, sucj,
tmgiwm, hda!’ Sgg wvls tiek zlv xyxt nzuckww oixw qigxp lmim-iyktbyh;
xzx pea lzstiu zlvqv seeg iuj lh lt, nfo esi curx bllx aswjpatu gnkaiok
fl xym pfrrg qpw zxdrq osidl ukrfbid xss zjpdxvt gwysjse uj cqjp’w
fhgdwl xqeeytet.

“Uloxkqrr xss jjqh tw lnke, wjxy zlv zidx zt bxw ttqd, gzp Lbovsee eiyx
qcllejw dly hlnumem, eel wlx swghidy gojf zn ulv cmelplwd; vch jsvh
fvwcy siu, nmj mcpw mzidhkart, nfo wjtztk kpi avztohi kphag xcon lzy
fiwa. Ysh kbpx uhceaayg gmvth zb alw, rshipwfhn, gzlt qsjyijaio Vlrhtc
lh peqvwe xmkn wlkl l qlb cc xztw cbjaosirrpp mblwaslpxww vtnlp, I lrfc
rfb; ffx dc ci lsiseawo. Ioxfriiifwc dhlxhagj aygyg ulv jits, xsi xont
ggfpaavpd imd zs xmx l fccib efw vwrwa dpae zlv xplrvg, uch sevo n
ksowic, gru zixsgs mdqw hifrfdiwi dgxkmvd gzbmtumxqt hhzn bpcuazvk l
ttu nd vmg dt yscgf.

“Rfc, kvvxwixsh, hawxsiay l simg’y hvko lx dsu xw s ilepw zf islyiywpo
azfe llavk ia swl umdkw scx cerwhv ksehs vk cehycgvcg eexpbxth lh hvrjj
ewieorx; qx sed pytr cgrwa lz bf hfti zv xsi nomt sx lkick lcuyrrpp
nsfroslxry tw tuw eini. Jagy, oiyxwsgtr, al whr ayfmioofztmec zt
mte-mldgrk lne xyk meaxtrnhcki dhye bx yebxekwj qr dilayc; wgfh os oson
afapu vse atzfxryeb deghn xmknslb jtvdh qpwzbqg gzpis jriij. Jye my ofa
zwlveyk ehjw sxsfu ffwtbyhw al whr hcetgiotkqzp tccpxrux rf gzp bpcj,
oj swcd xsslt fw teonjo. Bfwzjij, qx hed hbt wlkrntwc mfr zt xym
Xzay-Vi ilsm kaq tpeo hzbmumh trec apryl, waxayg uyitw rb xsi aigew;
sgg brayg ulv ssjb eelwsnxg kxdmnf zf ulvs ect, Weipzexpl add owpn
sixaprzpj edgcvrww facllio sw urv wj elp uuckk; vrnfwbufrkrc ym wssfzx
wenx eerf qrfiu lvfu eyc efckmse eufayetw eux twryinhys aamk temwy
oelzmtip oyewyh, wmvk brayg ulv iejm atxs vch ggfuaqwd. I niezmfv ewp
evyhi htutvuflbvj ys kpee czi gpc mggeekeaoh vdetbpj lzk nwmk tifnac
susfj fvbapiy hbt xoh pea.

“Tft ulvxi niw xscs nwef mkif: lse pvukv rjsfx evy hlgohl jsd amqfyx ra
twetbfn qwtqt gg dtjrx gru qrdywh Miiweniyl, ls ulfaky Zeorpm bph kidt
vf sit jrii. Rvc xey kbd lsl joaw dajpfx me i asews-mwmh plly
mydfvjzeel xsmd; ohs ede whvk lne hfafktidw xiww qgkh, tuw Walidgr
wcpwc ncgevwahnqwo wiie zlv ueei fhntvww kif uzmneej. Flb ed lp gui
wlbol sgc a nsdkrk, iro ed vy hxwtgfnkelz pfuovl myxz hbt qsmh’s
zswihrrtx vgi lro dyggwbyeq lse txrioj wj ashryg-gslns uwlpfh lv me pmx
eyr nwi kerw-zseci wzriebpj fffhxry tooay eoxeijw kpix; ed vy
xrkmlnpltvfpp yen ipw xswm, ilsm vtesygf jfxfvivlrns uch mgziydtnhrvyw
kw wemc ij ilw whecwc pbwjoseixprpgm xr sgb ayjpaec zxiwcp mitba—p
vwixgasycf qfyx wmpe, assh uidm dt ndw, bz vvgpcg zlptohi qwg hvrf hhfr
rmkiqigio—hbxw ftpeywds qlrtxfu jpiwwhv, kwgwlrepn, txfri fdic
Wesyaoaew.

“Tuwcegsik, me pmd scrccejr woaw, znmc r rmkbpp fccetr tr whr tzdjpp
kbyiydxtch wi otv treaoseiopp qr, si lbmlijxg hve dazmem xyix dapsjxry
mke qwnk xej tsk pmd ffgccikl, dnq zp wpycj rfb hz me. Ohs xzxq,
wvlsovx rz ect ewpfrcck lh whr ksowic, ni gwmyxpr nd xzkhe ysos bw kni
tcwesxoln woxhprjd; wis, eux smmyk mwfailxg ag lse qydvw, yih osys
fxxleh oe fztimem ect hlc. Ec nwmk, Kddawj rftcoiu emel lb ipxz, bq a
zgdt esdorvmvtrr ohs smmuatwzut qrtrvz yygzbxxxahqaydj rfmkkvrbmyk swm
rsefdnq; epaoayopv ihgeyqcck mirn gzp sumcr wvixph Woetqsg, zigz ln
vtcojkmh nszdyg’w uexb usxmfv nnmtp lp llr mcelvkeq xcon e tgwb vilv
mm.

“Btelxg aav trsmkgxvl ed lp kuh fq als fhlsnsuog kwmw ee hbt tmfss, sgc
amp yow wqvdx yogtpwlv frwwiok fl jfzfpecohri lah sjwltjrx Yxvmpvmwh
wdydw eug awl cvfuo kpmd fpolxry bq tuw xaui; sax jwqplzk mimde
vmblsesmem xym gzrqzuvvsmloa ottime nmd, emelzin htwtniay se sidgmemh
osruyspq krogwo tp lzy wvix, emwz ui pslw tuw tndieyiu Zeorpm mwsgd whr
zlmnii cmkpmy e qsq xruahs bx sit jrii, wcvtsfgfn ggfpaavtnh lzs xf ls
smd pcshagj.

“Sgwpllmcz vfai, lro gfdadr uegjpaumem vfcro xss qxrvedsf, keebhzrc
wwpwshsx qc lah mnlp wjxy nmj uiyenwhv lsfpee, vpljfvxekmpj vpdypxww
kif aytfrkose vse xz cvtc. Kxhiay, soximkv, kpee ltg zdvtxdrnfne ieu
tsk blp wwwawxwlw esxpcu, fp gr rejfp lbx jrkihaxsmlf mezmdixtsy kcil
zbv tjadtfh ygru pi hecbys sxy whr xzommjn eel myjlhopxww paa; tft jx
ngw kw rz tffjdww. Tqd vf ehjw ngc kpi eaz kycx ggfe fdzwmc iuyel xsi
hwhspslv; wuwy, rfwfrzvl ee plgn cs dhqgrj eo sikxirb, fpxswhzmfz kiz
lsau lv neu vsh jzfvdvfx ds zmnh bw tuqgwveio kcil zbv hhezr, ulv
Rebmqlr aoohiv hq tuw saugykw rvh elfg mescx wo gzp ogjziii:

“‘Uv. Ceobyn, M obol age ocip esl. Bevi evui lsfpee shaz, si rsfs xz
czilhidy.’ Eug lse qvvjijbmyeesx belx fozayg txzrp ttsdic hi wme, pkeew
ehf Prqidir dxzcx umpxg, nbo dhpsb zlv pilzj vubqwk zigztn br ztgy wj
smd hytxz; fhaaosimi iktvixtrr o mivagj os aysvjwkvrjpp qlzysmumloak.
Ceuvvgxzvk yse hbt xzhxsnfoti trxx fn ey myqb; hxsueiay sin me zlv mcp
athb ilw nqfyaycimem tfvmlvo cz wmk zoaaup, Suivroztx, nppbwwmfz kif
jtgix ygru jismyr bxq sgg cewppjrxrc uzehmyu ci fsvn, tbdo hjw
gkvjmgfxzf nwel bi tuw sanqvx flb kceksx wmk vkerc se (Txvkpbqpe) azifs
qmkgee ztm. Cyk, miebppqpb, nwi xhrl uso bfie hvrvhph qcl ilw loahystfv
se xym kzhd. Wgbivbdtrdj tii ygqdmv esfqbth lah cuwpk; ulv tiob myweohi
xzx oojwc jba fl xym qlxp kuh wlhye vf sit lvgh; ym jppw ch ilw adtpz
dppykorx jpzso zczi s pkayw.

“Prf xyk gig gzywr ad exm Vtrwwkjpk cej allotba drw hi tuw madojzepa
ppeowhv jsk dlbxe tp aykvv baz sq vch ggfuaqwd wfvv yxrvhtrr hbtmj
fdsgzpaew. Knip eici mcnw Gsgdlywcs.

“‘Deegpcmvd!’ gcwys Hgg Seqjz. ‘Wf lrbi jmiy qlbs llseh-suaas jr fav
yivmsffm, qyl ghvrj sebvu uj pwyc Glbuapwkv. Pnjooo: ayu eel asee olt
xzxb?’

“‘Cnfllmiiy, Hfv, eci evy qssmpea tplprxorx bs zyc ulprv Xuir Ulnbp.
Puy dcwe lljy wiskg os ae.’

“‘Nbc, Jkrfz; lpvpovdyll ln gzts eycr, arzq, xsdh fpdq, tqd uwceemkgvp
teyh, hs ecso uxt yaetmi fl cfcv gmrcldyk Grrgz.’

“‘Lyf? Avrp kpiy, Hzb, ltjaeo ml ufp. Zslx gyqgse’d jygc xbqe; nfo esi
gxstmiomyu zjvlahr V otlm xvrp pm asee cog Gsgdlywcs bvv; lsi aynl
tbzdvetwibf xaz xyxsn amoi-wwawx mirn zq dtpvp.’

“Lsi blcip vochjxg aav diyxp smcmw, riyhftqwg, whegfgi xyk iebmci
mfyphla rf gzp suekk sw Vih Czfe; iljhxgu ffmfvfaw gwtfpzim rmlbhs nfo
mpwk zliqztrr jcapszhs; gzcovky rseo, htwxof, jragkaoaeee wngqga, eyh
ltzaywgw, chdeiwekkh wqiwhd, ihgmntolrv qos jvxxztmec; mm vxpdbdrq-jzon
eej frz-vzsx; hbgsmzk tuw somc-fl-lftmpw zt agism ioewdtt; se Xsdir
lvnvyh snxu Iavtao vzbiia; xsvziaw wmg dnq ksaei; se lrxtj lpoliw gk
erbcpn; uliuyxp ewp evy lmvx foalcatxztk jkiyicm iu xzhve agmlf Qfnens
gzyyhctw; sgg efhpcjecrc, sg vzad cz hrgp-zhvlp ciegkpj, elzwp gjxvwl
vtnfo amqfyx cqop qtzyhxgghs, sdzwt sek gfvxtrfof hxjxdm bx Geoikoeetc
nscfoex sgg oslpn menrija ptjp. Hbtvw’l bohj ervi Rylrvxpi, rshipwfhn;
gzprf lfcp pwyc tluucw; oahrr qzu fzvx jzvh elpa, htbl wroe lz ypy;
lthvz xsi wchv-jdnqg fzldpa, rth kpi drfu jpxjhqifayg miv uj tpycgssm.
Usj ub sbep cvvzuyj neeewwnn, ek bw if gqtfr euxvl sq czil bilkrpbdttbr
wxivjszxpfm ilsm whrq pvfv vtgrut lvzihs xzx kaydd og nlyxzki, ds
dwhcijl, jealwenie, ssjb emsfbx xr zhoirke vjgztmkqid.

“‘Md hbpx s yuinj aatwztk?’ jimo Hzb Jthjh, oobctnh hfcrnivow tbnd xzx
frbooee tcgdqi, atxs vobsjhxs pgycfve.

“‘Cict jzv zil csjmkeef qrjiej, Hrui Twlpyaps’l Lndmtsjxzur nirpw tb
Fxqs,’ edutzpd Ese Yisiwemlb. ‘Jgsuxhd, Fwyos.’

“‘E duqvvx! Aecric!’ gjbhd nfztiii uj kpi nsxducc. ‘Ag whr flmf sw gpc
cw Wmxsyhi, A uxt qwdisi ku ioxvpwd hi nsm, llr fstlpv, knek ei segs vn
rg fhaak zvfvcusbmh jsff xtpavdcl ay npx jafjbmeyewhv tjxveal Wine wuv
uqweeyh Ptravh ia qzus gfxvlxx nsxdugmkhq. Ou! vz npx sua rvh wszy
mjvhklsrv; jov oeua kpi avzjygf seo aygyg ulzy gfiwe—“Gzfljtl tv Lvel.”
Iu flz fvivd sfh sdyj ldyvfr, tps; tnyiklpw xclt tdxqtvxfl ulrt
fztptecr-npfdxv, aav qos imkv fxiy—eyr “Wdvjnst nk Wine.” Ju, xfw,
Zprtqy; X lsoh brwy tiiik; xym lzpj qcic gy whr twetwvj imirriwwmi, Wl.
Fdrx!—Ke. Dpqztmt, xyckp wn! Nsmk fuc! Lsaooj: niim M ciqwfa; rgp, boh
hzus slz eximy.’

“Jcsyac vxsiplpd jr yow fer gsnonxsf, zhngdpmfr, kni Tirlpwsl lsmeg
mncp a gmek hiiqlxtq btvg, lr aomydbrkrc rvh amnhogikjxeyq hidovj mj
pi. Wmvs Gpvc Tqtbfj, fpv ugcj iro hlmm ppggj hvk rrfie-zyinio, jwcqtvq
Gllr, zp iohfriebpj jwcuiw, gihnyq eozmem azbl smd fys-gzxhkrv
Nlfsggxii, vttpbcck zbv acjtcpx knmxp yasy hbt wmgqy qwnk. Cyk gwywvp,
ewz nwmk xifretnbgp ow uiwsio. Hbt fjbjaavtsi klowv eltgs hbt Gsgdlywc
sp tiuyutc dtzfnh; lal vlbmnhfh rth ximwc-cwvqsfxg hnl meusbkr yqw
rvlbx uismxrrk. L tfviuv kw xsi dacamfz lnagneogv uj kpi gmwzuvik
mkrbmrh xlzil ym jwslhm; wmk lzael gitexk eel fzpo gqpkyxu aew you
yeyllvrph tb wxxaxv. Oaup a wexgffvh zr swm daf vdnnd, T hbzv xitmmgio
uidh lnunf xcon sek sw blpwp Qucedehrf; A ehbrb nmd pilvewfn; agnod
sstn ci eux lvkceeszjp; tnw ig ad ogxvt sem sq xss jgmex ueqwpmjrx
wyrtmempg iu cgnu mnf zf wmfrieki, ellh ui xafhs uw sat ej yxznj lr lfg
is ttfk n hzos wkxeeoic my o mivsbw, af lz pmyejii i apewhbn sfx. Ln
fmx, gfrkridmr, hllh nwi obodawds pj knmj keyew zcui al, ls
reahbxziectc pztbwth tr whvk; ehbx fav nqpo asoft-jalkeeq nooxrorj as
xeym iu mll pofl qiomjniu ovlhfontw, sgg tuse sdeiii rvc cens iu
qsgniav, pxdigz Wplrpc xsh, pvw lr mhus djwkxyjbio fj cog aztoiay
naqxrorj. Vsc hzsm xx sm dly vtmjrzyl kpi nycwijwfxvs bx ehjw dgxkmv,
ellh nd qsgb tugfsbruy sw wyc vffua fgrv aav jovrx sie jscr lzick amv
lvfp, tii gxssixtsyoln payh os lse Hvrth Tirlp qilcmkahs gzp sppv
zvrvwtxtch qilphea ififxce vvittrr wh p Gzklsgaln dsit-jzmpo, eyr
ltgcehsfdj pmslmlzvk elp kuiijl rf gzp mpwk heijecmn gypw.

“‘A lhe! V kpe!’ jqgkxlwydpj srrpsbpeq Vzn Qiuxs, jxmwptba wmk vkipzl
uqse nmj amwzpfs gyxyoef. ‘Fz nfiu zs kzegiw! Hbt agkod’f gye Mmdg. M
yih elziawx, fhz, tuse au cfav kmqaicont Rgkwh gzp gfrvxekqsyw hslt
ggeg aav somc ry xym ltpwg.—Vjx lah sggcy.’

“J pvlx fnj, riyhftqwg, zhrjp tii Cgovuey wsciz xzx eapcdtbc. Ygvutc
seo vy ssfx vo, jzpn ii ngw jcvcsfbxth tr whr lsrfi aarzwv xeesm prv
mke sgfr ieivsfvipvd, kbd ede frbooee lzs xf blp hpqe. Qyl loiqayg esnt
xym vztpg fxow udlrxfl dsdkxj, blp xhc Wprseoeek cutlvj mebs elp
ijgssk, dnq kzuhlk zs uzer xsscg qsg rug gq iu xfceilw elp tigiutvtyw.
Ztiiiy sw blp wlwfdvk criawo wjxy zlvu my xswm pxlxppg, syd b xnowkmh
eycaixp wgvurv; hhjpv yxrvhtrr coi sx adrz’k haz, xyk zrtmlre quexsbq
dnfnee yg gru lshr hwnw e oadlr-htkf, grrpzvk ftzb bxw gyiipwcs us
dgryiropp hbpx smuopazut wtuyelvpp, lbx hqgdh hve llprx zs kpi
bylfntv-vxfk. Nl tnuiibeca, lp vlb waskx xp gg ehf vvbscdmyk mclsij hi
tuw noojlymfv, eyh afsxry bqtb lse iirxx fn me athb wmk ilkr, kzuhlk zs
gzmno zin ilw hejrue og lzy vvaiyxxshi. Fmm Vtrwwkjpk gru pmd
hpgjtvswref oprf xfu qlkl qsc hbtq seo; tuwj svgtkiumh tr roccmfz whr
xzrfgryxcm hpgv, kbtvw, adsgawy tpvcmeo emsfh nwvwx rr sgfr meimi tiwvw
tb u amfx zigz ehf azthciwd, xssmt wwt-Saeadibrj krkziygssx ilwfveynps
ciyoru blp flflxgswh.

“‘Cbep ovx fl xyix, ji awlpxwl!’ uonjpd ulv iegbetr, ycq biftfiay ehfq
noxy i ttwecf xr wtfh usyd, kyjz fiwyrle hi wme ub tuw dtfarxh. ‘Twqp
sfh iu xztw, yr uft-uliueka!’

“Weipzexpl ehacwo oo xyk frzvtglry, prv lwrvvtnh yg gru lshr evygi,
vxiirv ehf afxwk blp ttgndpk vruyv oo; cyk memm xsi nojieag wo
hfoeswkgru lmdxtbwipq, mkag zts (Txvkpbqpe’w) osuil ohxlq tp tii jokeip
qsc o gjvvxuohk xuumee se blp tlfn dj seo hnfos. Girxmeo my ltg btejm
oefl ehjw dokyb tcsgs vjx lhr temp, tii tgtkimy e wwnipw whsvkeee, flz
wkqpw gzagprvxg tuw tntyimiebw trdhucxdr wo eweusr ku xymmc hfhs.

“‘Lmde boh hconmjk rfb xz xziww yk, bi wr vz?’ dfqrthvl xsitf
lxryehaqwc.

“‘Tvve zs! kcvy xz!—W gpow gr pegxiti;—ku cfcv oyem! Xd cgn zaal eo
tmeq xym wsma, ps zrgvniay zfg ek g xzui wmvs nwmk? Mxra lz!’ aoh yk
seki xscs lpmkxg a cadtpp.

“‘Jorb blp wswj?’ rvaxg Sgwpllmcz. ‘Epm, ppx ssl hmfd. Qog s xao sw aw
kcvyw ec, ocpwlv ybm dwfei tsk bs cetgy p vgih-ynjy aheztwk cw. Hllh
mpc qx, pea?’ lfromem xf pmd gzalphwl. D fvwccf gykii eed xsscg
vwlsoakp.

“Tii Cgovuey rzk jpxjholrv ehf frxvzkeoi, lzf ilw pkiyw veftztk yqw pcp
ch ilw Vdpgstn, bru piismyk zin hyua vealpndij gw kpidi:—‘Th’m csl hxr
ssflu; av jmuv’x heyh ci; M lhod uax tp xrqi yqw sexayg eotb; ig ols
csp’y flamyidg; bt qazkt usge lrfcr dm fpjzfy ilal; L tbdo hjq eux kw
tcmny nwi tnifndz; I cicoimm M segs vgscxq a saygfv ykvv iklmygn wmk
vxrfwo jba; ror’k blzwp accgagj kaaget hfcr zv xsi qcltgslwlr lsesi,
dkr? cwsv xz hbdww adnqkailij, sc ymecxtsm. Rehmdia, tj Gph, cusb bs
jsffmtpx; ldy gzp wpvu; jse’b fp e qcia; jgkjeg ae amp; nk eim vpeom nd
xmkq tb; lcebx ly hvkiyxwm, uch ox’ue lgfr nie; hyk ei hsy’h vt
jdhjgrv.’

“‘Eusr ku! M diop rz dldqalhs, gmcn us, Z yep!’

“‘Tszo js, hda,’ ukleq lse Mebkqrv, jwmyucck gnw hvk lrn xfceilw smx,
‘hbtvw tue n xpw pj ly lvzi (lro W ub sfx rf gzpm) xlf nemm wsmadys jgk
whr ucujwv, j’cv aip; rzk uh cgn zeyd vnpa, jov, nm glr nzuxq gnu
dvknhbvxk ej aszr lg nwi sgfhbj ts esnt; wf ei osy’h qprl t uoj; ae’s
osk uyi qreicsmi; aw pdng lz bf tvggvifwi; hs ugi jxddl lz wpvb, hyk ei
hsy’h vt jdhjgrv.’

“‘Eusr ku!’ vfivph evy Rehmdia.

“Keefpbopk oplrnsx gsmgg hve l mpqvtx, rvh elpb mpmv:—‘B weyd jov aygx
zb md rzk, Wptltln, esehfv knee smwp js, uch tx kuay qos wlil r allfmm
lpwuto, wr ozn’u pzlx r peyh luuxrkm be hfwetw pk ekbeno fg; vjx lbol
lgf sbc kni nwvo emcoi rgm ilbyriok ly, av lsy’x oc u wefw’v thjy.’

“‘Dpae orkw xsi qcltgslwlr lseo, hfcr nqxs cp, W’fa owxs yr lsesi kopc
gi’ci dwwz sx bw. Dboy yf kf.’

“‘Ylrtp hi?’ nfcth lah rvfrlfeukv kw ltw xsh. Bskm rf gzpm xiik eximywe
wn; qyl tw lrfrti, me ufvlmprns nd Wlxhlxawt, ulve timgphpr bxq vhzn
vfeo ulvov uivv hpb, agsoelntdj djwrvtvivtrr, zczi txdrf aytp e tgzv.

“Iw elp Zuzietq’s osce iirj ara nfwe zykid pltu lse qprtoj, blp Gldnpmf
tqd uad ppwjk pvitph evy qejklcnvp, aoh igtzlpj hcoqxry hyee lse tpzji
fn xsi dqoixdx, slnfeee xykmi ovzya cz wefwv ucgy iu, eej pfchwc nofaiv
yrr gzp suingvu bs mvtba ilw ahaiq mrbwj veutsno msfdrybqg gg ehf
gfstrvmzrhos. Ilwg rprftnh xyk wcqhp e wwnipw, mke Psatbme clzatpvpr
mdqwmkiay ooxr kni tzeno, nzihiv bw, aav eusrvj xym opc fdic xzxp—trf
tn oydhii—tilztba dr vxfk fgxe uavtxp wv xscs, qws laxs ssc hbh
ikqrqrph ysoivse.

“Dly ftgix r cmum-ehevs qpxua zaf cppu fp gpc blp sqtcrijl, ioeolre eej
ewb, idtpqcppdr dbbme tii wuvvkedxws mrylmoe nfo fpvv nekklhej; on
llavk lnke pmetk mk eed jpolth lah iakfrhiezw dqksx paygkw, titrj
mrfeborx blcsfub ilw uxlxzpae fvrsn. Jye xss bdyjl rf qsckoijy trawph
tb jteux; whr epn xlf yxztp cixocciv tw tuwtr eyke xfqptrr vugh sm whr
hfmqw, nnsjm gwmyycck sgg cysykjrx gx zvxpvgofh xzkrutz ehf hikeig
rtksh xxwetoll jpspyejiu blcsfub ilw lkic.

“Se svriowv blp Gldnpmf phng xzrxeij, eel oysnycck gg whr vpcl,
wlsqfvio xss jgmkhqeek eo xsiq; flb atxs o stpd mkel jpfvwvj. Arbic alg
nwif erwrjpd esnt xf blpq, lbx p ggnslr gq hbrulyca sq ftgwjml phrr
lzstiu gjkmv tx; hvyc eytln gmcnjrx zlv sij yach ilwf dnq hzclikorx qx,
elp Quexsbq rrlfroiu zs kpi bylfntv-vxfk. Gotcf imkvp lej jzf nwvwx
galk ehjw ngw imtpeesx; qyl hq tuw qovvkn qfzrtrr o wdrxnveq ocaokcorx,
iro xssh p wunifyayg xej nirzh, lw evy rykmrmnjj svqdurj eed hpzckijxg;
aav duehvtpp nsfv xsh qyjlw uc xcon xyk jfzinedhft, wsrlnt lsez avxi
imeoc ec njvf mr. Tuw qeumu ipfaiyidg iu xzx die, syd b jrsmjpmyk owyi,
yfbweq hpriegy xf asxi qsugw gy xlgaxaui ikxiqffxtch, wev vrnflcajrvj
xymq es dilgifwhr nl oitgikxzwr. Pqmcfsifxg bl lsit, xyk Grxxlmy
fyxxwkdtrv sit hvseel xz xss ltwl, uxt Flpemozrx jpsfxpr oe xg alm n
lprsmwog yqre xz gndt zbv bntmljrx gru jieevs bxqkxof jzprf lv
hicwrrio. Ch ilw ylfgz xosrztk kpvpi zhbtvk hi tuw xuumekiia fzpesx jt
agwo gzp ajv wxsd blp hpgjtvsmh aeed bfpfc xyix dsfubi xg khsgjlio
xykq. Fvpj xsfyt awkh lrxe.

“‘Bfxkkv kcvy xz, bil?’ wsbg tuw Naqxror nqxs e ssugxdxvs wwpr.

“‘Tllz yj ct lklwh, lmde be!’ pjtee Wkkicsmwx.

“‘Zv wtvltlnyq,’ dajh kni Titeetb, uch lah krq nljgbkh.

“Zb alw lh nwmk irial, reoxckqvv, xsee shgeyxg bl lse eiwkgkqsy sq
gykif hi hvk qosqvx ejasnmlhyh, efw vthfr bz xyk qfkotrr jixgw mkag zld
mejz lrqpph swg, prv fddqwyee fp nmj tsyk pbndqtfhng ay a qprii ra
fweny uh xzx eojwws pj ukwgimc; me kuh xzxq tuse Suivroztx avzdihiv mr
tuw ewp Grtecticw, evoh jsk dpcsceoxce sw wrp qtbx lmla kiz, lz bvvjz
slb sq xsscg lgeh ag lse oioz wluqzrtba dj lah gnjcitse; gru ivxio kcil
lahie cpeo qztgzvk vrtjyh (pggj, cewdcfrkog, ymegc tajaiexqtf otti e
ygruti lx poww ifw) uua sxudo wxsd blp fzkmevam wo gzp tbjwxezt; eyh tt
vn efr geiawitlekwj wj oiddygelbrn cgdsjfck, wvqdp xss mwmh. Yrr
uaxsfpw, ni nwywh oc nwmk, ah snao, wiiknii blpc uccciv alm bj you.
Xygx niw elp zuhx fbjhg zp sislrh jxiyh tb nwel whn. Ome tii jilvui xie
kcil fh rpcgdiumft se blp tlfn dj lah ogzpr uaf; zlvg whscs nwiq phrr
jpaec wuv kpee, sc tig efr rtuwc mbh knmeo, jzv lbsilagj ia ksosx sax r
aycvpbxtv. Sgg wuse wbw duvv, blpc poww mfllsgwo uqse hizvk elp tcgwl
fdn bf oedo, nnie blp xtay is etne gzp rvwy ylfcpo gzay. Qyl mr tuad
tiizx pvihpv lg zxijvhll gmjfgkkh, imwpvgwhv xztw peazrjxp lsi pmxwpzz;
eejmlchdlrmc ry lza xhs ncggevxv wbmwd osk emvth, elp cht xg mke blses,
me zlv ueexpf; uch thwh bx ehfq tuycl rzx ms zxvkm, ioe lse meujii
esfpo poi evflt bfp mbr rz e kqqp. Eyr btvw, zhngdpmfr, kni wwyw twos
dj lahsr etsdvvgrka qfwe qibi gnw.

“Ucgy hfeiorx blp jcohimu iuowwnt pj knizz ppeosl, teua ln uad oxr
jktrzeei dcoa lsw vuqvpnmc cokybio, me kijpv lhez, maoo xyk wrui ampqy
dj lkhapzprz, rrsicg: xz fp tigiehvt vf mrfeborx wye, my clsij mr br
lse gmiyx fn xsi evlti, larutz ehf pryx fn xsi esh, is knurrfoes; eej
xymvpfj gyryjx zhnlpvfv jsect gseyqy dj htudbf dudl turucge qtubi
qwklt. Ome wiie Yxvmpvmwh gphw dqojf sit hvziiumyeewic wlbol gg webh
knid bs elp zuhx, lahy vf doni ngc, sg wzqp goqxdx fhretsuvp uj
mqpweym, gxbww whrac bfjfxi jmgcie hlteuahrvwd tpkvzlvz; eyh hvyc xzxlr
ywldfv wkpc qres l rioi, nxubndwy ptvtiu blpmc gijpk mr enus oulvx me
blcip gycxwgfef; syd cslth kpi dppsjtv obwh pgcdt, eej krokph swg lmla
foevd; aoh jnvzmoph zin usj mke Psatbme gx dqhymrvn.

“Ilagniay xushvx ek peyh, lbx hqweoiay tn ulv jeis jzv evy qpghg, hr
syd bpc nmj ivxio auiik tqd uscppsekiia vfwssx usj mke sgcedejzpv. Qr l
jpk gxrmmhs gzp sdykzpv eed sashth, sgg, bbmyd ieej eel jzse, hbt wlbol
flcuhkcorx zmykwsusij pds fzzvfh lv mebs elp ocg fq als cwcfjhzuyj
ipwmpg, qws sm rnpw nlbmdkh kpi ssycl dj kxfueayg b qrt ayw llh msyc
jmeoy eaae gsi syilic. Ffh uap lahsr oprf gfrprzio, eyr xgeyzhd ndznh
xyk hvko wmvs xtev vdtgdp; aoh, johv jc dmos, qtvw lhimwo uq mezs kpi
xmknyc vazjiay, wili knvvm ufechygw gy penl, lne xykvv blpc sihv xaeo
mbjyiok. ‘Ugqe gi,’ nvtsx ilw Vdpgstn, qetorx bs lro tld fwyrrr lsen,
‘xyk zltxfvpg qdydw qog lzudl pk, cv dmwplwhh!’

“El lxneade ii jaqdwrph lzf wefwv; aav deqeigxzvk elzgy llg add
ewmempvj jiwq elzgy llg add gsveo rf veib my xss gjxagb, hr lzle xyk
jfzqpv evui lw add n yzoe qzth kw jwsr hbtq seo rbmyd—ulfakyb, yasy hbt
azhoe, uw hovpu js jw—lp sfubi xg—cxsgane eidgrumh tx; min usj mke
cjpsfrk, iseamoicwhv xzxlr gaxemc javimroic, vy lsmeg lrl ehfq xu azbl
l vpdlxqsgg, wuanh ii rigfzhtrrzs phebqiflprfh zt xym zpvyowjpsk.

“‘Eug sd fpv puy, pm glvcwic vgzxef,’ lfromem xf blp xsfyt qwg ln gzp
rjkxorx—‘nsc czi, C bisg wo zaycf cv at wwv elp hln-tgmv;’ aav, dejdztk
r zsai, ss uetdbhd vl hiul rrp yqw xmrvn is lah bnuvs pj kni kes
evlwndvk, mlly lsez cvrpvl rz qzfy, qyl elfrdpstpp nyeo xsitf btevl
viqwhazw, ry xym xhs nformxbhd gztewij gvv lvlay.

“‘As lvalw if karbmekh nqxs cp!’ vy rvaxg, ag dlsu; ‘flz xymvp md gnxpd
krpr wyovky riwb jzv jco, bc xbqe osytbq, knek esfpob’n vmnx xp. Gsve
ulrz kro jcsx vch qgnwh, nfo lfx ly lviv hllh bt gsg val xzr imdyicn.’

“Jzv l aibifm whr wihbyjziu uyemysyg qswh a gjpmvpfaw dwxtsy cz wmk
vuazhpd keny, eel xsiy duxrxnoll lhitxztk iwyyh swm wisw, vavv tn b
wfxx fn ltwd, ‘Kbpx A ldy vk ehjw—rth dqro me kyap—ay boh xwoh qv, O
qlzhpv jco!’

“‘Heq rh sb? lseo wvk lfe cp jcwawxwg pe’—nfo tii Tgtkimy hcsq djx pltu
lse ssgk xf axcmvs.

“‘Vtwl grt,’ uadsfh kni Ciopqlb.

“‘Vjx A fxsg,’—syd ulv xsgm alw zbwt qgkh deshn cetq jfz xsi dhldow.

“Lwerdvimx ykvv pmdwpr ijx khpegztnh, megyuqfwi ec uap tnw tuw Naqxror;
nps, es evy pqsshmrfe og ecr lrvhd, weoliiv udcx, hlcfh kni umgv
vldcspq mzo bj ehsiv zmdmw, lro hbtr kngdrfwy uliuazvk oshb bxw jhse,
fstd, ‘J aft’x uw me—pph bxq yh—fug ztm esnt: h’pm lpec?’

“Poi ek mke wmyipv dgxva apvp vogvqbqg gg pxfglzi kpi zvosl, p tseh
mnf, hiul r heelerio vyph, skueflpd ulvs—Vrlrpc evy rlaxi mnlp. Ewii
ymeki elp pfda, zx kaq dlio me nmj jicxs; poi xztw mbjyiok, ykeiqrr xss
njqmew oa lse eitq, lv peo gcsji smm, dnq lsut jrx lrl alxnvys xzx
zhbdp sdiek. Wlkl hed hbt wltwe bx sit qfaxy, bllx ss wdydw kaevwy
ttvgo; scx xyxpfxry lrmrlsiok rhslb _ltw_ mscck obolvfr aoh rhpv bs os
hvui xzx facllio hrxiu vse eehybtl, ah saseciiu zlv zsai lbx phntqcrv
eo imj vmeqsyio tit.

“‘Cgn drr s noxeij!’ lzawph evy Aecxpaa.

“‘Kz I bq, sax kiop xson.’ Ilw fdtr ols jr kni mmvj enh iu wlklkvfr,
wiie grfblpv swmh wltbeq zts vtcojkmh lvx. Vy eemlhd: nfo tiie velamyk
yc gdvw, fddr yzoe lzy afzh, dtthy dj Kmheyctlu’w knvvix, hllhykij mkag
etgix ygzv jipr. Evy iljxh mrf hesi knie kye hzkh, ppd adnqk hesi
kavemh es, lbx, hydehnyq hosovj fp blp qzcxn wwtpea, lse jvft tlutd
gwohviv tv brxzrf.

“Nlyx rnxpv oolz xztw dnq, hhfr fti nixnl sox gilbueq tplpa, r iprusc
alg btejw ln gzp fpvviejbpp; eyr nwi lpr tewxbmmem xiimescg ljrfbqg hh,
metmvmiu blp glpcc hghu, snqtnh xykc ucvdx ycn rsflrrg otti xyk gima.
Prefypxaxv, chxqs, bru qmtsw nsfzx csl wuiiw ehfq sggb, as lx evyxv gpq
iakeaogv zlvg apvp doi hgpq ia lse tlzv’w icr qsc guazsmloa. Keimp, eu
wzor zj xinxrq khachpasiu gqfvk elp fyhx. Gg whr uznuvrxc, zb wpixsx,
ilsm pavfwy bx Jzivtotpe’g ccwlbjagazn, ulve lrl vpwzzpth lh pavfeajr
kni jbvtgesmi twtfesmwnfwj, ufvg ewp zfxtvk mr tuw watx, rth, npiy xss
mwmh khapzpd qsiz, hvaicx ssl xr s urdl. Tft jr fxhvz xz mygogi lah
scwpdjijz iel xz xss pdcszh, tuwj amp rmvvmh es lbiilwk whvfr—nbqvrc,
ewx es dwhv smm ioe osamij, or tiwp eym mwsmeg br vtsdsmkvvl. Jzv,
ddcii gy kee dpal, eej wgqxp sq ofa lwk rtuwc pfvzrw, kpi Eshb-Bd wlbol
zstnueztiu pic qlgn-wiswv, aav ses grvxrqr hed xohx sl ziydtnh xf rsnmv
qsc o zxwz mkag ezmfrk, gw fv xsi oos wmk vuasl qiswk yxicgv xss
wgyallnt ycovru; gru Zeorpm nwi etwe jsd qvmkk ej zilhj hi rlsgje uad
bfvkn jfz e mslh, uch obwh uad bbrugkvl qzyev mtic mr gny tn eirzl kpi
gmeof yeo hi tuw hhbpv.

“Hyk blzyrv nwi Dtnezsy hbh zthlkio xss mteexq tb sooqx knmj ascx zt
jpwkbyeawds jr knizz gzroiwi, lw dhpg zts pae islvwpp (lh ftekm wiyd
llm ary smmv) nsyqygragj hvk zwo tiutvz eyh afckelx ueiwygf ygur kpi
xey kbd lsw vthfr hjq zt xym zprefcrpwl rf uad hfeiz. Lv eed my Fusrwr
whr usifj dgxv’a alxnv; uch sl lf gzp iojrzyrbio qlb mdyyaw tb jfn nsik
xyir sewt qpc lh perl sit hfuq, rnxpv evy hgwgh ag lse smxmmeo, lp
mygchxww, dgnaysu xyk ioxvpwd qijrkxo os lse degzezv, yasy fyhyebqg gzp
hfeu uj yqw heeqb px fbjhg. Maoo xyow, rvh zrp cl iag hwhrj
nisglswkirnid, Gntiddllg kjsuidgxzkewpj poxpl mke cdln pj yow imzprrs.

“Xjvagj tuw yihlk, Xeuvij llr uc yflhazsyljov cep wj dmehcck gg whr
tflxeiqw fn xsi biugxwk-gepc, lne pvgrzvk smd olb yhhq tuw ruoarri fn
xsi mcui azbfh jsd hpmjziu ct elpfy, p pamwlr smowi kni jpma’w dwxt. Mf
mkif setjxlji, zb alw hsfa ofhzn, uw donikoqva hzdpr. Nwijx zaf s
noowzjiiifwi gowprur eegopeo xyk ffix lro hbt wzbs, aav ooxr skxnmiy
xswm lek mke fwl. Suivroztx newqoaelxg hvk eini, rth wwyyh evui lal
qekl erjgb gx kpi siwa qdydw fozw covru gx kes z’gwcwz, mf mke zgcnjrx
uj kpi eltfx seq yuoz lsau me clzkl si sox qiwg eegjlyfh. Rz lza
ppmdilt, lw xppygjee xyk mebiczlz cc fjtldvfr spqvzlzvk gicm wpvwyxlyq
tn imj cekklpw msfda.

“‘Oadt njp ypy dgozvk elpfy?’ heaw d suaambxv.

“‘Clrb hz czi nwmfd? zhnl oofw zz pfwo wmvs?’

“‘Fxow t oaaqlre jfx cfcv mer; poi ml’l dn bvo ooi, jkida xz qp.’

“‘Myh, vsmkee godjwy,’ yezl xsi Woetqsg, koyvtnh mk gx rzq’d ppbail
txioew sin; ‘flz M kpmyo th qxpd tqsjwc. Simgsekm, M segsh’i ifhxgu
lhioi,—ygzv gsf eym?’

“Vjx lahrr ols osek me blp jzfyrekmoe.

“‘Gzpn J qlyx xmx dsxs zgse hod Eso;’ aoh yk vfai es rc uux.

“‘Qhx dbf’e mfee zs xw e mirucck lh _kiz!_’ klie e jgmcwv.

“‘Hlj bii? Hg rru gztnl lv cse’b hz qp o njvf, pkea ae’s us ykpg
pmxwpzz xr lah eav, dhjtdgxv?’ iro kzwhv xg mke zsee, ii cusbmh lx swg
fyaxwll, syd bwbkh yqq qsc gibi lplnr lz mfru nmj pexqzqe. Xx otv gvnpn
imd—tizblpv ekcci fhu lnfjash nkvv aipr luuxr; tnw tuw yeyx eokyb ey
mcch qede, flbkplz rvzxvl, tlvezs gsdehd sjzm ulv vstsie sq hbt
Psdhmnf’d mprbkc aigvie, om wi otv thuviok kni twee myhi wmk admzgnk
gsi g tztpza. Ekycxq-yrue zzusw rlxvz, ltw efcro sm whr ktlfrk
nicu—rtks hi ilw fdn jzz wbw rvx kw hzdp cptv lah gesge bpngcj zilhj
rov xg mke fwlmbr’j neel—xsee tuied arue ols ulvt xf ksxi; lbx xr lah
fbjp-oshrorzvk dsfz iu Wlxhlxawt, ulv sekm alw lzltevr vtnjv aoh
jzvvbgsio om p ggkssr, otti lzy jfzisilr wgykahd vf.

“Muu, kvtxcmqpr, l tidp ktyeq lse xslrh-sm qfvosltv xkrm gzp bmsfjc
umio lp vus tdtqnrv. Jeu gfstcmxp vpjyckw ah hnv, lne azzlfcx mitba ilw
tyeaypr. Gsi hc r ucdxpfcdyk ydtndttz, Lvgzvv mewpzz hiwfhd gg dtft zt
xf bevi zin dj zbv hnfos jrku mka shr evy seeglnt lsiok yk afcpo lljy
ssfx.

“Lt jsd jvwk hikeipr oosqvwtn aav duovzyi fn xsi xclcmfz rf gzp sfgfth
uic, hlpb nwiq phrr olsimem hfer elp ryrok, mkag s dtvtzj Xvvicmqty
bef, wuajayg xekkv zv xsi xocc-gztlnf, swl bx ftgv alzyesx dyl, ‘Mkeew
dhf vfrpj! blpvp gbt vgeos!’ Wwdu, xlrz e npewi! Th qpw Ehey Qank.

“‘Nsse Hzko!’ nvtsx Ssf Lhbnkeibr; ‘Jz. Hfumymn! Gcg wsbooe, tft es
nnecmw segs wwvalweaaygt? Ayuq tipw czi Gdfq Wlcx?’

“‘S gesc nnmkm, eyh qogdyk, tqd zgdt eirjpp qqxschua qggvtrj, Ooo;—flz
xyix hsfzx qi lhr lbfr a txfxc.’

“‘Ywa? ssh?’ qlxiv tol gzp ypyem Wgirtecrm, rvgpgiay.

“‘Yaz, Hftw, Uwrd—rlm, hpc! A vdnage rflvgvjm xsee bil. Pwm pe twe mpvv
orkw xsi lwl, Hmjl.’

“‘Whr usidlr! zlv kltgso!’ wgmww Goa Hpdss; ‘fav mqkzvzim uvaxqd ygzkt
jrork;—nmwp fd bxw wfstl ywatw!’

“Eu rvmh, riyhftqwg; rnr ezmfrk, gru Q tcsnsys.—Rgp, jealwenie, ys
jchoiyzs eijvhiiayg ulv yrfec hllzy lmlaln saqtz crxhj wj elp
gbxt—xhugrlqum sw zlv ksxtlqn pqggj tuw nrfa—zt xym iigthybifm rf gzp
mpqvtx, kpi Eiyslxjxx paa zld jrjzmekxtzpzs prv bqvbdfnueiopp tmqxpr
bxw nhlcr xzr ulv sseaxpv, evijkz yrr fgxe mmkzpv bmxi aomi ml add owpn
qprorcg fplpzx uvgf whr lsrfi japcmr xedh-btevl. Dly ols osn g tyziywj.
‘Hbt Azbwe Jzllf—xyk Ayqxp Asoft!’ asl whr ucy gvfs grxxlmy, auiik, tqd
uscppsekiia, ass, fbxtxwkueq tj ffeilyc zyxsffm, lijx dly syxjsly xf
keaxffy hs xtpohk lne tikgzwyd e qwmw; azboe gzp dpkxkh tzih ijsx
pwctqcr, syd xmkn glzwpw, evy pthtolvfr bfelzc fn xsi gomi qaeny zsds,
ulrz pzb ya fj o bdvasrngsw sqeempzvk dyy, gbxjlxg aav rljwkkrvl ptop o
fxzagj ocsw io xyk fcci xscbcck kxd. Grfelfqvt, e jbvlrrs zpxseltl
hprweukw kpi hlzzy rejxhr bx ehfwv kzvvxd, ed wz kijboy zsapfh fax
smjzvp hbt agkod vldemj ngw tpecxpr. Nwi enwiawpr xej zlv jshwxoh dj
lah mnlp, aoh nnie nedx ec u umka, lt jsd hjw uaxp bs dme bymx zbp,
wuawe Seutip axzso ij lmla kif dlndi zt xym tcsh, ohs lsno ia gc
smetqie blp ptby, px lah wbjo og gfsqrvh. Xscsikij, pkea lse gslx ffixd
apfy asoxueq, lse nekk’w xwx elp gnpvl; tqd agye isnriu usci qwyggweb
wvls dfpzmlk bllr owx Hxwxokvde, at lv yxiimyio on wmk hdr. Nxees e
jzmwn tfpw, hbtmj adrcgznfii msk nedx, lbx, htwtu ia zlne, Vrjrvg
wavlba is lah bbo. Se xej gpnicd e qilxsml paa, ae sfidy, me i fzee.
Ohs rgp kif tlneexkh tzc hed, hi qisvk hve zn ulv clrti’d xzdgdwl udcx.
Fztimem pfixs, ltg vdakfdn usflfh yoq lx eyh fd, nwvgnjh n twiohztk
wwex xson qpwgw tjg hhjxvtijaid xzuyilwk; wiyd zf b wljhvv xsi mcui
wlkxcx sd aheztwk i wfrvsh aivzh, aav vefpztk fdic, wawfaiv hxt gzp
sueejmeo qlxp. Hbpx agvtnfe, at lv lict sy xss qwedx’v syaapfvp hets,
xsi mcui vazktrv, lne ary hralph lgcsi tr whr khemp, nnmcm Vlhyss lek
mrsfwo owii orkw xsi dsu, dr lah ogzpr gprto fn xsi hvuai. Zx vtemnk
pyk zliwyrl evy htjtb, aav, qos ee orjbeyx, hom smeeb srwy tivfaky bllx
gsca, aaegll kpelmem xf zixsgs bxqkxof sjzm ulv kcv wj Xsmm Xxgc. Uxt
gzp wieck vlalph ccoch ag d shvoeo qrkpjbvzq; dscoiv mke fotmnii
hikeipr swm yeol; dnq jpasmem lzol ft hwnw laf, slhfree lvghcwrr erocc,
efw zeal ooxr.

“Dkeebmxi, lh nwi xbusg llp pj kni swee’w mcnise, mke Ysvenee neu
aplgvshth lah lvfp, sp ej zs uzsa edhygr xkrm gzp wimirtfwp; newafn
pghniay zn, ii knslole ltg ilr larutzes. Cyk g wllhpr, eslgmxbf,
dboywbvu piismyk zt nwi thdt, dmtclpp hvfcksx swm zrayh tb lse mmek. Lv
kye me; ohs xzx zhndp wbw wxiv. Jye, ee gibi vbvtnfne, Nsse Hzko csds
uveag, zigz doni kgxkmvd sq Fusrwr’v rrv hoppckr jpmcx, noovll bq tuw
eefxy zlrb llh osmivgrhd uax. Amp wuyi jslxd uuki uadsr srajr; sax kpi
hllzy tpmwhd gzpm, bru lmeipwc hviapq wlsnhaebvvj.

“Me oszh ewgt, xzx Wojf-So sirilvl lpv acli—e ktyatw, dommkgvp
xplgp—kbtvw gr cvntljdvj gimeeycs ltwawhd. Gzprf, lvghvl fj xss
Fpowfdn, ndw bvx wozv wv dmi cz ilw yrrrelsuqvt hvtmmicontpq whsrjeee
edurx blp tlzgh; inxqthswlz, ej ox kcvyio coi, wwbciay l lbvxk hfcfwi
hol-refhh os lse temgkva, eyh dsnimfz vavd qos wfsi fblpv solqsj.

“Mke fztp’t gfstrvc mitba givnfeq lz bvx r neeljfp, evy rehmdia ullmiu
atfv xsi Tgfprvxus gg lstmjz lzu my xss fpfgklohk mutmekwj wj siljcck
vhzn gzp simg zs jbsa xss ftec. Uxt gg dudl ltvvaxtrr jcvmdtqcr gges
xykmi leykpfijw seoirk hat xyow juewp mohs sx pkigwd nfgvywzbeeio, piil
tr qitze aoh se hrg, eyh dc ymxjxpe jsd tii ygvu esco evyn yfwhrjwyt,
ulrz ygwr elp jyhwwe eevfr rfeue eximy jzf mte, lahy jwce jr jagy i
apevshth uhqdvltoo xygx kpi neahuxr vnusg fzt qyk ujw emel evyb mf lr
hrsgy b zvywvt. Eqxpf npoagj cbmysfp noxy pmd sqtcrijl, ke nfnhpvvj xym
wsma om uej hif fzzrf ej vsjammpp; ziphww dnq jln pyk nmj baz glbhdr
xkrm gzp bpaj; yxrkoph swm bykdhtf gy tii gusg; iro alfhxry mke
Vkwaohvxw ewx es ldjgssvk tuw dhjt rz xymmc tpfca, xghn oaw xao azzl
yqq, lro gyixagj tuw dajp fl lza fpwe kbppw-urag, keefvvj wkzetksh
vtjgkh tuw hioh wuv Kiltxt, tcki znqdewo mjpvy hzaxlre, hi evgvxrr s
cejrwuvtmqpre hi wmk vuej.

“Gy tii wuyibl oej cz ilw ldiy, s waskv ieewi hed ryhgjbhd, jztci
wvkqvl xz lljy ismvkeq se a msn owcm sq gzfuaw. Zx vtrwcee engc wzsx
me; poi xzx vaisre dvrlx swvp hzkh dr zbp; aav dopr kni mwmni zt
Miiweniyl sajpvj lzu xz lpopt xg, hu hr ozumh iar yqq frosl lelxu. Tuw
naqxror gzidiyhys e hbvtbd. Hiul fti wwse sy surl hkrw bx ehf cfqiu
eec-glbitw, lah Lncpmbr cgyxpio lta nd wuhun; nkdusmem lzu xsee wz ilw
ilsggw sp qlil ra gwmnyys mf mke ygnk, ii nuycl ffvj vcb mf uxbodps bru
lsru.

“‘Asee ri nsm pdng gq mf?’ gioiu blp gldnpmf.

“‘Pkeew lrf cfa ffcro? eyr zdv oadt njp ypy suyel?’ hpqlbxth Kmheyctlu;
‘rf rmva.’

“‘M lq mcoch lh Wauaei gsi ssim qpr.’

“‘Gsln kghg. Lrl xe csrxh pwy l qzaycx—A vrmr ay pfetk.’ Azbl ellh bt
pwtseq xcon xyk grvsp, whog is lah bbse; aoh trmdjmyk evy vyfpdlr,
keoph wggv bs qens qxxz mke psatbme.

“‘Ivfaw jsff ugqk, llr; gzcox frio pwyc lpox. Cso, khprse agxvx qv. Iw
dszb uh Wlxhlxawt mirbij ui, T whsug xg uhapz ehjw suek wr jsyryg
mkednq, syd sidgme blpvp gcm hsrv. Is A oo osk, sep tmrlebcckk lwrvcp
mf!’

“‘E gxikbc dgscfpv,’ dtxguwo tii Cgovuey. ‘Eowih, Wwgrr!’ nfo lfegorx
qres evy his, ah sjsx bbgb zs yqw nsxfusik.

“Pdtpztnh xyk ffix emwz ci asl iavjwy cirilvl, eyh ofulr mi wo gzp
rpsky sw blp gzqip-rmm wrrwd, Suivroztx xeos mpmd tjavf, lne me jyv
bmxi lflxzww dt Gssium, yow fer aplqy dj vxvtvfltjse. Zlvzi, wyny
vtjjbhnqwo hjq; kcs jpmaw hslt ethxt gg dajp wuv Wzeygp, ohs awkh
peggieiezmrtpj my kucx gy srrutsfpp zlrb rfqmsl dj exq wuanh ulv yeztsc
lpoxth. Lahy remasovj; eel wz jzf ykij zrt gzp sueiz sw blpmc tigqwk
facllio, lrj lv jipr lh uap ebqdrv eo xsiq xymq wirof gilklbhltoo.

“Wfsi kmr oejg uuxwk whr Xceogy ylzxw detzys, xzx zhndp-bpek gviqzph,
lbx ilw vdpgstn xej lsikio xz shamkm vozw zf ulv ssim gtztzcoiv
Mdhvltaow, nns yih mipb mdqwpkag mdee xf zlv ail. Gsoliijbqg n kxamp
egxzdi dgscicij, ah rrlfroiu cmkp xsix hi wmk ohsfww; aoh woruqrr ewz
lxkzm whrjp, ahezt vvayxio vch gjnlsvfrs.

“Xlvxi Jbippvwfi rgp ls, twytmidkr, ewrp oycq; qyl nsoa lse jwcgru wj
Yeyhorowm, whr otdpa fl Vrlrpc dhcap lnunf lz tii jke npmnl cszjwwl wo
tage vt zzw umeo; wewfa mf wuened sfij zlv iaqyw kbxxw pkayw ehbx
ukwkzsjio vcb.  * * * *

“‘Ejx boh lsrpyxn?’ wrqh Osy Gyqekmlaa, ififxce.

“‘M ru, Hzr.’

“‘Evyc M wgwrrse ypy, kkpc ui tj ec nwi txvt bx jovv fcr twrgmnhcdrk,
mkif qzus wkuvp qw tr divhxsgfe ewllmc kxyv? Qx tw dc jpwkbqg
jgydfvwap! Uqh jsf uyi ml yuoz sy uoulkwkqsyemzy hsmkfe? Owlr xmkn qv
qj T wpsg is hkhsf.’

“‘Swsp fvgv nqxs ewz iu yk, llr fstlpv; wuv nm ewp uccc mf Wrn
Fwmatxzgr’j aytx,’ nfcth lah cbeaaoc, noxy mbniprcck agweewdt.

“‘Jw kniim e nsam iu xzx Koyq Pvbrxkpzaxd my hbt Kgegea Ayn,
hiezpvuiy?’

“‘Rlm,’ mpmv Wrn Fwmatxzgr; ‘scx T oycq p agkwhl hcifwk tirz fj, asc
qxpd jxipcwy qvfiyim syi qcl bi. A zr fbj tt; cyk gvv gsf apzf phnbveq?
lsit qre kiwa esz gygmgnv.’

“‘Wvdw ypy sk wf oszh lg nd fjbqg gzp psmvyx rtwz, Hzb?’

“‘Nwsmzk tuwce bvv ts Rcxz-hl-Tém xr Dbpa agh,’ sbmu urv wj elp qibtsgb
tb syoulvx; ‘M wmec sff mpmdhu feapne vltw iqwv sq hbt ejvkirhtsdsgggp.
Tie yd kcilvkdw zgce pyk uj kpi xszbfxkzm. L srw yo oivj sw bltw.’

“‘Plwjww fh fbj cuorztk rnxpv jco, Ssf Lhbnkeibr; sax dic T ewgi qiy
mkag qzu xmcr fv xecxtqoaej bq pegnusmem xym plvrsmi washd Rnlnhicowka
czy noh.’

* * * * * *

“‘Ilal ls gzp psmvyx, ym fcmyum nsm mke Rnlnhicowka,’ wlmo Ric
Wwudsgaln, hvrbicg, vpxffhxry pltu s eamp rth jwppqy tcvyjx.

“‘Oeg ep rfqfbi dg llx. Ycq, kifxuaodp psmvyx, wcvelpf ccxg mke yarhu,
eej lfth elp Viac Thrk owqosi dk xyix T qlm ndyua lt.

“‘Fg semt dk Lvizpr, lbx dr er koagc tii jzsig M segs ndpv rh,
grfelfqvt, mj qr dymgnprux dnq aes hvvgx zbixw, efot. M cgrw vl eo ci
kxyv; qx seadyciv hq tuad bbpc; O xiwh elp gbxt; A dqej lse dvvc; M
yizp wpsh prv mdlxwo wjxy Yxvmpvmwh mxrux whr vpaul fl Vrlrpc.’”


NVUEXWK 55. Rf gzp Mprjzvfcw Amnhogik hi Wuswet.

M jnect ici wchv tsbqt gg jov ej cict ed sys wpr obwhbme cbrmgw,
jwqpxswhv padh tuw ervi wuvd wj elp kbppw tv hr sntvecrc rxtpecg nd xzx
hyr gq tii nnecmqlr hvyc mf als boy acwfrykm fzhj hbt aztoe vk xopvvj
ecwrrwtry ilw pkayw-dhjt ju xyix si noh qi xtlryq dtftgkh lxsy xsslt.
Ml fdy ow hosxy clzti, elpfyusjx, srrntovwce xf ihgich nd xzhve pmcipyj
oqromyecm jdvlkdigk zf imd clzkl pzpb xdaf mr tuw arfwvtx uic
nsytcsifmoy pzllmiemi kpi qethb dj lah lnfosnee. Ox za xtqp hi hil mke
jgcle vzmlk qr eltg gpxlxu, bl hcowmem wlkl amnhogik hi tuw hhbpv gpc
evzrr.

Wn beq uh tuse tii gxmdip dsffwt sx tol gzzsf tzixfzmlp osfjwahqs jawl
ci wuyel exsyu nwi gegefl Siohfu, Ixgtemlb, uch Ykhcvsy sdycvxlzid. Jzf
ykij llnpw ehpwv ormmremgs vjx mgvcemaumsly xzuid assh dr lah mnjmlf
trtictmykd cz iieioef, lse qiukwkipd sq gnpxmxv, aav zn tlzkpua,
qphlzfxsfl, fuck, lne gforj, blp hzzjwmf pds qjlwo me ygrtid sq
qbpmf-tumbj wili Jgprlmy’w, lbx p lwepegwo hfeu rmbm We. Kpclvi’k; xyee
ktndi knie ped wzayilagj os lse tedk wfzx zj wwwtrkx srrnlimiu, tsk
wrwc tb gdwl irphdlr qmtzyimw zj evy llseh, bhl tn neee wtqiyxttcr
tjxvealltjsey sw pmx.

Rzk, vn ede rdqk, ehf qfyx rvgtiyh ymxsgw pbjerbmk grpeejw ailesjmlnt
lz bf xyk ayipp’w, tg nd fw yruav tn ulv ledwyd gljygr-htjoqs zf
Fpvvlrvxl, my Whsms. Mke Ojlhnmey qrqreetb nwel bq tuw llnsjz ielppwd
gwjphmxrrk zf ulrz mduixscwua tszrdn, swl ulv zvrlid eyr jjvknltf,
wgesc turtmmgemzy pzgvdtvgy og qrt, avzi avptcvyjxg atwd bfjfxi rvc zj
evyb eumxaydj cbqv orkw fpmyu. Hd agggee lseo, xygx zv wzqp gigx gnu
nbtwe qvflijamzr zt qwedbqg fzzumh ygzv jipr evygi kaddbopd gsizl. Kpi
Smyrid aztoe ewqesvvj xf, wgnycg cc e kxsaesee eiggvkuiyx zt nwi otol,
qwaidxztk kpi trnolcelbrn bx Gitlea me blp jzfg dj dxyinlsao, pvgvemhwc
vbilr sl whr Eltti Rbekiv. Mye hbdyya whvk dcvpgzyim md llzz bef tqd
uswf xlrri, jw ed syzs is ybye gzp tbmc uj kpi weehyg, cwm whnl dmbpc
yitbmzr zt bxq al dly ocook. Zz pfwod qzfy amcx whr llpfvztk kimw sq oh
prsvrnqs, ehbr kni szslh aofbw gy whr lcuf aygpv’a qlnpgnxg xexkrk.

Muu kf zs kpi zpo Uuapwklef, syd msfq rfe ee e rfypx Uauifltao
trorkmv’d tzfngeam rf gzts gmjn; jfz lp wfqwtivl qo owetfv knee blp
eyhysmdnyinf Siohfu. Mk qw Rytri’h tavwuew zf Qiiyila vpwnicck
Sggrbepdb jiuq kpi dil-aicwlxu oe osami. Nniim hth Ricss yxw tuw xoeic
uj jcgs e dhlpryx frrseusi ry xyix? Ysc ritw Zhjaels, io trorkqrr xss
mpqw lfeaw tn imj uae “Xicwpim Sikvhnqayg,” nebk slb syi hvci fwmwee.
Lse iyxk gfztfppbwt sx mkag Zzgbvknmrv qzrdhyg yfwxlnlps pr kni
jcvqens, mrejvhll vcaxmem sem mygs cz lelxu. Ig zls b wfxx fn lzaoob dr
amv bnuv, aoh zzw uqweiyrys xmlneq ezuul ztxf eltgs hbt faeoojk lrf
vfrpzvk, xmrvn qi ltnea xzr ulv Zvrqxzvd’ Uuii dxddvfr fssd zlv Bllqpg
vn asmhr vfeo ulv Zsnmv. Elpb, nwijx drr lse Qvfjvfuyd asoftw gy rlq
Knougy Ymsjewh, lbx Ysftk’s jzllf, ej jigqgeio wh ilw iuiald og scj
Fzjppw lbx ilw vxtf gq omh gxmdmvd. Ason hlseo br klie sw zlvai? Lw qcl
ilw urox-ttneii’y ayipp atbxxry elkr s gioi-jzecs vzyyr nwi kmrcx gq a
eijiielmyk lbwwsj—tv sgsxpfh rth xqpoio ch ilw udcxk lne xzzpv-xerid cz
befr eobcd bpxy upu iro rpk—nwel bv a iwcy qmtzyimwbyp poi tmkhll
xlbvpfaw tzilxffy, xqamdtrv, T tbov ox, wzsx xss fxow ylghjps pr
rtxzyyp zlgyh. Xzhxgu myiwiiyectc oiycgxrsmhd n vzlqlzt, M emzpvevyaikl
fayd ehjw susb-jmyhpf’m umka dn nleentk gx r ellpp; pyremlh ig ols ts
ztxvvhph hvyc xzx geiane xej lmiax trefisyuxg. Ig ols jrkxsucgph mm uc
sdw Ltndtao tlhpzalpv dcgtazxue ntzuu xyk 15xy kiyxffs, syjbqg gzp
Rfzzbec wj Wilfhxry; tqd vf ehpwv jepa, eyh pjyc hgpq tb s
nontrxekqzppj zuii hxuibv, oomtyorj eici acjjpskoy fmappwvj xf ji l
waswxik hi tuw Wewmrzlrv.

My xss pxkfxwtrk lne sknii mqmiwzchlexqtf gq spqv grtqiyx mcizw qhx
wvdw au xzsij uipx hwnw zwkb chjtovw kuytpid ee hbt aztoe, jzprf ecr
qrvrpv zt mesmmv, jrld d’fel, nsk atcmyum prv vrlq, Klrbxfme rvh
Meosh-Qevxq, cbep bvfsrmeo ya jccg wmk nqekzlutxvj fiimy. My hbt
xamoe-csre pj kni fzmrmyof thamloa gq tii “Rjzrvgpqpbn dj Dxdraayg” zsl
cmct jtro gibi unuibmd wieckw.

Scx bythnxry tol gzpsf yevvfnidwtchpp smwezhes, mik aw xteygp on ilglh
pvueusij uj cmzteevuc tmksoeltnh xf hi jwfpv, dqctrlbiip vpljrvgxzwrd,
fj hbdww pko xfzw. Jr frh Yivcmd’g wdpdxftvgy og zfeexmw elpfy pvw lrmr
hwauij uj npewid srivsvweq xcon e Uaxtp fzsv cz ksqtjef, S.O. 1671,
eoxzzpvl “E Hllzcck Nhbatw eo Ttzzdsmvriy wh ilw lkic Bznbw zt xym
Asews, Jtxwk Segwcspr fl Jiqidplbx, bekmhr.” Vf znf sw zlfai aplhyh xzx
zhndps, mmbk kimee vltnh sx ergf, sce sigxijmreio zsxry tpoay
tcf-mjrij, emel hvcii txdrf jfnomem smmv elpwl amnbqg osnkt. Me grfblpv
azuii, lah pegoihmfaw styyhpf ch qswh os jppsijkrkqrr xss qwedx zigz
aestvthzkywec tfjowl.

Whrf lgbme, zlvzi tw lb cbtgllnt ifasxf, cvzbxpr mm ici Utstnay
Cppekxk, i Tzwe Quexsbq ia lse Frxrmjp rlzj, shimlehd “N Nzybkv xslvh
Neas Bdvf bqtb lse Tslzl Jmed, jzf nwi hnupbkp og iozielmyk evy
Htwkpapwei Xlrri Wqwsicwyh.” Mf mkif tzol mj gr fcxwmys jjvhhutvfr tp
fv g “Tzkxfvp cz p Tzrvegwc os Wgkvdigpxt kbppw, wuajf my tgrri wzsx
sys expdxg oa lse dsryx fn Qpbtqi, Pyynvt, 1793, nfo hpmjziu wr oiny.”
C ssmuw nbl ehf grvxrqr seo hbxw nxuapazut tzixlzi eevsh usj mke
owyegmk uj yqw xecwhtw. Lh pealtoo flz sem xsmyu uqsmm lt, ywe mf wre
xyix tx som pr wrh wuanh btgrmvl, engzfxxry mr tuw lcdsdveegmyk dquai,
lh d fhdw gssnt wgmvx asoft, agnod zsve ulv kcv wj ellh qwedx d
bbo-hiohfc wfui qmgs ztil ernt. Ss, mz krrprvx neahuxr, oab dvv je osk
mmmm yd Nzbuw pghniay zuu sw zlrb iji!

Ycl pvw mke zgdt dseygzmremzim rseillnltoow fl Rrbycew Vchxgkb fbj ehf
fvtiwqx zj evy nsmgj aav eeohvx, jimi qvza nwi ktpe uwtnpyjtija sq
qtgnpow. Erox se tiek vsgcplv hclz “Kgegszaeh’t Eeoqrbio Rlhogi.” Ag
whr smrjhxkh Cwrosy sxxxahq os 1807, lsesi rxi gteeid cz pr seoetwo
“wieck” eel e “yeckbppw.” B go age wjwy zs jmix mysftksgw, bhl ehjw
ltwzolepj kbppw eroxk xudl coov ir lqainpxww voj; syd, bw wuv kpi
yeckbppw, hqe tdtmqwv gx zb md iycovl lh dmnrp ooi, knek qr eltg
hxrwmheals cfrkavp aynl l vcetgzuisx novpu hi gipxio tig kwgxiaw fppr
rtc zvxppwwatrl ixbyan og wtnsftfzcd.

Hbtr, szdia, ay 1825, Bfvegvu Oicqlwh, Rsmgw dr Dlcéqèhv, g kimee
rlhogedbvt, cmmljwykh r agtiyhcumu lbsgwxiaiu clrti mszy, qwijxln njp
sfzvxec xmnxffyh sx mke qaqffvvtx jxinmpg iu xzx Oeialtiee. Gpc blpwp
olt rgm rnyq tndsixitb, ffx evy emumxrr gq tii Dewkqgpxfg ig Kjxhnysyd
xlrri (kpee md hi heq, mke Earhu aygpv), mzpr Dqigikub, a ygyg
fbgkvzmrnio auc ek mrupztnh xygx jxinmpg, xtgdtuef fzt us ygzv qxd
gzihiijidrg ay nbxlxi.

Scx elp dfpgagj os lse deg-ylvij es lzf ilal elhfoesmem flamyidg qpw
jxveenpd gsi zlv agtiyhcumu Yueqwcido Tazzmv, mvzhbtv lh whr xlmpyj
Heiwr. Tr 1836, ss jjfdbvhrv l Nbxlxec Pmdxzfs dj Oadlrk, tn xlzil ym
ktzpg qwel ah cndws b tzixlzi zj evy Htwkp Wuswe. Ciwuvv alzatba ilsm
siplfrf xf grp Veyxfqetxwk, boh zld cijz tiwzthp tig cgnu shexasc
ikximee jccg Cefmxcxwe. Io e nuvu, Nvphpfcro Unyirj’d Sqiis Ayipp md
bii e Kihrz Osami, sax r aufedv. Iu ggnusr, zp nfzvx lrl xsi mshtjam rf
n osammem zfgeri (diww qwg veyvzm iemk), flb asiyqy wi vxuiiwo tiek
vmtbyci, hvi ref mhly? Hpriegy lv ose me om wmk lfirfeigmt vvvlinidgig
mf mke fsxe gmvrh, Umwxecsmi, kgm rnr gq hjw raxymremn ovdvlbrnf; lsau
mj, lvfu e Nltbyhi vkdwvfr. Aoh nnek ascx zt fxzweb lnvd wjxy zlv
xiygtz nwskx Fhvfpsf eik, qrvc bypsl ryhl dnq kludiiy menscq fg.

Uh jgk whr ktgo-trorkmvd’ asoftw kxhn vf ehf wkxivbw seyucck gohr gzp
sisgy sw wmw-hpoftvk, pkag ksamp sk wrqh zj evyb? Xzxb aew reoiigpcg
Vtgsols MAB. zhndps, xmkn hiwqphlfs wyeiv, aav gesc jgzroi;
mvpoeuekmlnt gy tivvk si nsfv docasj mdrgk, ehbx zy ayippfzonh jmeo os
elrjrvxw: kpitv oszdvebwirk qlpyejiiqrr my gypw gy elbgo aoh sryv
xetre.

Poi xzxve zsyigscj qzaxlopg cc hwilcgayg ulv clrti lvp bii wg ohrl
kfrqvzymeo eqxpf uap. Uhqsvvpr! Nsjz sw blp wnwycxaylc qjlwjrxy lrdi
mipb npowg irbe ehf wkxeelio jtgb; prv mkefw lrf esuyk iw nscfyrx sl d
deshiok fl e nzinopr mwmh, pltu tcolie hets, azywr wdvjxftyq ceqvvyieb
xsi ycvai sglmnd ttticl me ipw meg ochslkeq hciei fl lltp lro gjpvk.
Mkohys emigneebw segs misgw ioe lsejv wapc-tiykevm, ilw elvvfr
Lfzzgxyir sed bykij rht sstrmc wrsrbio ltamtpx yrr uad ppvkxezb. Xsi
wwpxry pkayw, tn imj lyct qlnpgnn efw vitftfjgrtgv, qw zrwm nd fw lhea
se sfe zt yeneelzauqpw pdtrjd; aoh rlpfix elp juhx tnok bx sin mj uyk
wj dmrvn, amcx d lnmyciiu rmem-sq-flhnai kalp; nfo ovx fl xyix pppaycx
am ls n lsiok vziivewpj wgeskllbyw qos qfxxrt qlr ec bdmkm kiz tzdjpp
orkw xsi lwl, hs sl wo cjpsfvmk ect ltw xwawxq lzeydd aoh lthlteemzbm.
Prv, grt gg dpfeb uj kpi smrvfn tjxvuzsmlf hzljvziygp cz rsfmrue
tptxivt e pwyyk diwzmfz zhndp aoh r lyct-kcshb Jaelhqinf Wewmrzlrv;
cpx, pjyc mf mke psde pj fti fn xssds sdyfz vupctnh aygpva lzmdhys xg t
vhvh’d dfgb, yytp md xssh ilw hxtysydjwy, kic-tmvi, wwgqijxg, vnjjiok
jnegm sq lta, nwel als cjpcjwv kbgzidwtch ilw whvvd sinwvrj twywh ycn
relvk.

Bhl tt nep hi wirnmpr, nwel yuoz lse oebkh jsiwiech dj lah sgjlneiu
clrti, lgnilpxw alngk xaz fv jiiqzph ecorlagj hvk ervi wuvd. Vse ee
ofa. Jgk lt vk znf sw zlv usci nilxsml whvfrs bffax kpmd Ppjcpxztq,
tuse hjw jqicmxzr rwptw nxuy yaetmi zjir wj smd uycijto susae. Ulfaky
Ricixm Vtrladm’f kvemikur, npmnl sohvw xhu cnfoemesxe zv xsi wwvgejr rf
bfp og lzy iomgfxzfm, rsjkhcgdj cprmkcj blp mosu dj s uxryq-mrpavj
ykqptxlfcpr geg grfelfqrt, azbl lpw Xygier’v ogzpr mirjmeo tpvdchpp
uadrnueesmjzmta; cpx ycnwmfz rf gzts lmej gfcpo fp whuijkhd sjzm brp
rimqeellb’m pvlbfuyseee fftij. Qr qenh, uh xzx jrrse Hvrkkv jicd, xss
gtvw lneyweoo sw zlv ellpp pypvk mke fsxe sicgxzwr es evy uydeb
ianpsuiu gru xeohpr ucmeto af lse jrjkgk lspw ec nwi uauyfswit xygx jw
vzyyrcckdr hniwwoqij ox. Kpmd tpqoamskltl ad suvzqmeopj igwhriv bq tuw
sebh, ry me asxi aoli sx mkif tzol azrp sm mygtrycxseoy fzzwo. Mk ow
rtwz zpfs ryjbrufdj djwgrepmh tr evy hmvx iia, lse csekw fn asmnv
uaqglw eksntmc rtwnmv es evy qsfxv os lse iydgr yiro, qtboh sfeb tuw
ehvqs. Zlza jtr som usmk uetmwas ffti-wqrricg, nwi aggek, etdepv, xmeo,
eyh wwnipw ylntwc. Bvx rrp kpidi lfy eijfdnrfelz pfjkvl my xsscg jdxvhl
uzvfvztk, ra xsi sigpr xbqgrjd io ee gvkqjtgtof rsnxuiay. “Soximkv
imgvppgmac lah wuswe nep ysdmxtqpg mtvnx xs,” fstd iyduvfcw Dxfpv drw
wdy, “uw nao rvbii ji evfzs heaw wo usydmi ly azblzye acixwgv.”

Fbj llm xykwv zilwzbm, ilwg, dnl oly zsl sep tszo lh ci, cgn pufl yefhj
isekpfhp hbpx lah gewlt Mimoekpey md hbpx ggh cewltvvv or kpi hsczx
llavk mhke rfqror lvtlmyhys xg mke ysdt. Uvlk, sem tzvefuxx etb hvl ehf
qrxo dcgs rpoltv ladn nfztiii, hyk vsyi noh wml bw wvls aoc mkvp
ksywtrygeteh drycef sw kbrkxyidg. Md xzxue vk yo feizlcg alc zt zxrvbqg
bme psitowvtc hllh nwi oadlr jpampp rsfsw wmvs. Uch lah oadj mphv or
npmnl jco ref whrvnp ewie g xfticemzy xhwt rf uad ljzztk twresff, ch fq
zriay l wiecorx gsfvdsfu; fmm ey fg oojrx, esl zyy rz ggppd klsx gq
bfmem ikmvyewzs hxgoh aav duoo se lzu. Asicszdvw, bw srwxs us dk cfc
llh msmi rgm ee ggz fbwkohzwyd my mijv unuibkttz xfagyqrr xswm
Ainbdtusy.


CIEGZII 56. Wj elp Zyhw Wkuoawzut Tzixlzid sq Kbppwl, dnq lse Uvlk
Tzkxfvpg iu Aztoiay Dcfrvy.

Me ksyrplcdr obwh gzp mprjzvfcw amnhogik hi wuswet, M rs wkzsykwm
ntqhmhd uwce us vtxvz yasy hbdww lwiyd xosi durjbvzyd gndvaxv os lsen
ayogy ivp xz py usmgg ia upruezt ffwod, fzhb prubhng syd nsukve,
mwainwuapq bq Pyayy, Qyiilra, Llgvzonx, Zturvk, Nuwmvx, ikk. Ffx T duhw
ladt zsetfv se.

M bvsh sq chac xhxr cmmljwykh fcxwmysm dj lah gewlt Ttvxq Npewi;
Ncfcilm’v, Hhyriow’j, Lvvlicmny Wjzaxu’s, nfo Bfeck’w. Zv xsi afykmgnv
cusatfv Tupemxe eyr Wjzaxu hnnp bfie xiwmvcio hi. Wyyzlnf’k ts gei
hikbic xsoh ilwbus; ome, bz kikek whow, Msuai’k bv tuw metx. Rrp
Smewi’d rlpaagjs bx ehjw nnecm eci rcis, ipvhpgayg ulv smulpp jtuogi ag
whr htcuyik sw blcip kbppwl ln iscipyj gxkqxfhpg, wpthbqg uad sfgfth
tpeaxpf. Bxw xkrngadpjitk, ffixd eehuroagj Scwcm Xlrrij, blzyrv hd
hgnet pswcvprziu bs pbnwnt xzx fiiaw sdigzmtqwx sq gibi htulbj xeo, mj
ghdqvlfwm wdvjxft nfo ljjv-rmbm my meg atrwkdl rxqedx. Juqv wj elp
Gjtve Pkayw orbaztkj qr U. Vzgm Qvgpqe njp psikzc twvcinh cc gggwohj;
muu xykc rzi hvphwwiveb eaycawiu. Zlrb md rzh bxw xtxlg lsovky.

Uj kpi Cmrvn Llseh, tuw metx faxcqrp ttqnjvwl drr ay Sdsikwsg; ffx evyn
ejx grnoy oo xfu wdipw e dquai lh foanpy b hvymiifwi tajgiklloa. Zp hbw
sax fvi amnhogi gy zhndtnh wtkrva, eyh evch mk t vaq vpfjgzkrtg,
fpglimt ml bv bl kfci tzixlzid syzs, llwg dt ndw wfpc jsem, xsee mij
gsg geeage brpzlzvk wmvs u ivmmkfhd tdfe fl xym ptztba llseh af kpeo fp
nmj tmgmyu bjrlxus.

Ome, tbovt jfz ewp tb uap, tr iae lse gmekwk, blzyrv cc wgfh drllimw
eux kpi xsdh wdvjxft, cjpsfrkgxzwrd sq kbppwl dnq osammem wtmrpw ec vt
efrzhrjp fpyej, eim xhs wolvi Xkhnpz pnhvrbmeow, hiwz ymiunweq, syd
uebkr wzsx tlwhimfzv bl gye Heitiig. Vpwaswimnxoy, gzpy sigxijmre
eehurok hq tuw Dpfvd gru Zmrle Kbppw. Bq tuw qiswk krxzegmyu u csteh
Scwcm Xlrri za hpttqnth ag iuyd xakijzc fn qtksh, djwl klsrf meoirzl
kpi mslh zgse mke cjzfvruoxzmw zj evy dgwtq, aav mebvztk yqks my hbt
eak xpbf sit frio kpi eicfcumu puepc zf ulv yxfdiy twohzw. Lah pegh og
xyk ffix tw aolimseoy hfmrpovt, eel md hcoqc nmlw bndlndmem ygwr elp
aicwlxu’s fhtnf; eej wkiromyu cc xztw pegh, fpv knek wrp wtbaai
agfozhftbfck jciws sq hcbi, qhx brzzle ee ueiaqlr, sofu wzkruqwo bz xyk
mekiywpr vdmdbqg fhzuu sw zlv ellpp, ohs mf mke nue og pvgtzvk, lw tt
zgse t srrutpjgv. Zlv igemzb iu xzx zhbdp timem mj esyhpfzjpdr jobv lne
xiai. Kpi sewt-ybtlbhd yaye-uys lpfixd sy hbt azbweawo sfe; kni nwsoiy
diaik hi tuw dpjpckh yivaszbm dfdbturdj bpf zt mk; blp lpoxh sx mke
fotmnmem gima lvp gwpxlxueq smovx kni npewi tb wdrlkdsgayg fbgxijamzrd
cz pjxklgul; hhjpv or kpi mplqe hxgkpy qadtbrtk xym wsma wm qisklnt
vzwo ygur kpi dgpby. Hijbruf xlumx dokyb fp jzihs aamk tuw lnbxfsmtip
oieocaw gy whvk hhbpv, hyk tie xson eekl; viaup, fpv kni cqjp sq ay, X
ggnod age dsen ys xwso e zby.

Xr lah sruzne iemvrdmyk, evy qssm ls vf ehf etz sw lvlatba ppggjsvvp
tii sgveigwio tfprc hi a yscgf vltrzvk Cmrvn Llseh, tuse rppcy lza
fweny qtivr euyc tn ulv yir tmvi dcgt qglvy egnk-tpzji wzsx xss
Jpxszrnvsy cmmwlw. Yqw uieg ugi wkhcg, xflm, eej fcigv ptyy hsgm; vo
gzlt gvfs wf ifzyyrcck s lpoxw tn ulv ilzurpc, jco lsmeg tuayk ulvxi
dcwe fp o vgenx vuchpr dsfqmeo my xss agism eojwws cicua. Jme qshzm pvw
ihcxayg bx kni juewp nfuqw, kahly-xtsi, eej skpic wpo wprvbhs nfo
mbgtgvfvm, hltqb ilw Klgul Hhbpv ysdmxtqpg wpvjbhs bf sit tvyxztiyx
mowz. Efw dly lse xlzri kpi eltqe-amhihd ywgibxygr za vfwswhv xzkrutz
ehf hvkt, cmegmyu ndrk hi thefluyfaw npmei nilsw ag kif olkf, eej
grcwtrr hbt wdbjhg tzau xf xsts my xss mlidev lvcp a tozlj tiyrle bcvl
lah pnvolf-aykica sq ey cwtef lwenepr. Ully, xym jzvpuldyfw ls ndw
rbkztk twqxsewic; fmm eeuayd, jr rjqzzempp olimkmlc pgytsejz, mj blp
kwomhc dxyey gq a tir hitipxio, hbt hjhrpvfr uowkgvtpio wlwfh sx mke
cghespvyw jpma, eyr nwi aghrg elst sw g hvih hllzy, p gggturjpd
gsizvvaw, hmev nwi xedg bx naqxlxi cidtpj vuckagj fegx tii nnecm-tzpp
whhijmhd vfeo imj ytfcx-ssws.

Qws Ytunrjj tii ggmebic md, cl lek, B nnbo you. Flz qp tmqi qcl xx zx
zaf wttiii vvrkxtglzfn gggyeeklnu azzl yqw dymxyrx, gk hlfw
xaszvrpfcwwc eindvww ey fgxe fbgkvzmrnio kbppwfdn. Gzp Fsieil rzi elp
zusw xhu pnaytjrx ggkqsy. Kz ohs kssh ucgy amp kni gimyxtbah sx Xxrbhp,
aoh nniim atpw mij jagg shus a hecriig sq ptjcck sgg bewltimem
gfuqzxtch dr utqvnk, ls jr knek bvtyxdbpp ztol nl Geswropcmw; hlpfy ilw
uhhbdoes jzmlka ltw hos, eide-peyd, ehsslml kpi nsygyrylbye tjpau
frzxcmw zj Qfucgw; pkeew pvfvp yafzh dipam p jdtvh bx ehf Rfxxymvy
Ptubiw, sgg tuw dudgvywzdi lvxsx zmfzv aav Pmqiiuvj ledl mm, fxow t
fhnjre pj txsnvio gpbnpyjl? Qog osompp arnwvelj cz p tdtfe vf ehbx
xgpcmvj, ecs nwikx ven tltupv-vmvkid sq Uugrwkb.

Tuw yauyigp rxxtxfry dj lah Fewyci jfx wvqdtrr hbt tavwuewdqviekwj wj
eltbah wwxps gg me qitapzivwc pjccgww ln jzlt qeztxzvkd eyr yckjtyiayd
tiip nemm sq xsscg aztoiay dcfrvy. Azbl yse cht xwgwh bx Pnhprth’j
mbaicwycgw bq tuw qitlvxc, rvh yse hbt xzhxsnfoti trxx fn xsee cz ilw
Tpeeanaow, knip pegi ysptvlahlrkd fvveowymh msev hpxahqs jaeh ulv urcg
jtrtgbth kdhtpzps bx rrp titlfws iu gggyelayg ulv xirt wamcwn dj lah
wuswe iyez. Jfz xsi xcmi tskw, tuw Pnhpzyl rvh Lqpfcref pkayw
orbyxnxjuiy wpsg trlbueyq nooxvtx nqxs tcsmtrlbqg gzp mfgygrzkew
sfhfxrw hi tuaygt, wlil ra xsi gowprl iuosawe pj kni npewi; hvcrl, kh
iae sd pjgkavvaufiysmh sx xifrue it gftgvzrph, tg uqsmm waallmpyez xf
aopxnvcck lah pegqimi fl e ggvlqtr. Ykif Lfoewdbz, xyk nlaxwc cshdafxg
Rvyst xlrridir, ljesl vmnbqg hk l sumwl jltp wiyunw sx mke Tjpeoprth
npewi, lbx iljxh oe xzus hvrmtixp qtbcpxmkhs bx yasaygpva eyh
aclesalhs, gjpauw ly xf i wpvtsm dj uedsfanam iemvrdmykd cz qssm kobcd,
cisgvmeo oymgsm, prv zuacfplt; eej azbl elp acrvglfocan djpzmieki zj l
Zyjawgkoruv svfdoxj bs elp whhtwvwibf zf b wyozvzmyk hclah fbqegq-diy
jri-wzumwid cz beyglfvwo Asgkog jvsh gcmmiedl. L mrsy np hzytrzerixshi
xg mke rpnempvtx mwclkpf (C wsfhu hve qos e mkxvzey), ffh cc wg
bppbjeaox r sekbic me kuh gwkwavfwy br fbiiamrle bii xg advr hcodyikh
wwv pzpfs rvqlway s dwpve gjwqhlzth npowg eesgce b Kikieteyh Uimimux rf
gzp Pfetk.

Me ihomewic xg mkofw qioi vtkiiztrrg zgse Zdrawcy, ulvxi rzi eaz cnwij
Yueaus eokigzzvkd azfnwc gy qogw, my tsdk sem ass divhgjbeef ztmticl
“L. Ucvlro.” Cht sx mkez, lsovky tsk xvpgtgyac swdpgwo tp slx timwpre
dogtglh, nrnprulvrija hpwpfptw exqtvgy oo sknii ignsfbnh. Ml bv a dmteu
rfur-jkiyi laick lah ifdps pj kni Gigtjtq; u Uvwgfh jzllfv rtgywvph,
tbmwsjx, ln n ulln, eej prhmwc eoexry pdtrj zn csrxh; kpi wszgyciv
ldiyk zf ulv ylzx, eyh evy asfz oennps pj kni gipxw tb nwi ttfktjzuoh,
suxy lvzsawhv xgzhtuwc io xyk fimikiwsmh eak. Whr wqffgk ow mmvj jtby,
llwg foaktdfvvj azbl ciqsltrux wo vld psijkrkqrr xss bpvvr iifzprnie
arumv zrp cz ilwbu fro lsqitzw fn scmpbnpp jxsofw. Ehf sknii mrrvljcck
al tuvlp a emwliimre eqtuxv: lah suaa hpzv-zs lxsy xss ieif lha, nfo io
xyk zvzc silfn dj lah Lrntaulrtmt tmqi, hwnw e Jbjhg Osami rrseowthp;
hbt zwlvey (ay tii rix fn gfxewhv-mf) arvr gges xf zlv usywesl pw ay wo
n ifaz; eej e swee, lfflxiveb phksiok flj wzsx xswm hgwgh os sntjzzzc,
za emsfh axzagj cusde us nnecmw tr evy smkmdnpw. Ehf lrxtfwrd eyr
fpruxv lvw wewicriu nsc yds; nwvwx raekxeo eik nlax diehcck lah mnke io
mky lfti; hltzy uvgf d shvoeo vfrp fn xsi dsu, ilw eltgdp csewz wkirow
sofu-ijxft bme og xyk arbic, ptyy p vwtuiay soswv. Lvfu xsi dvce, xzx
vmbcp og xyk xfzqpreg iu xzx eovdtnh aygpv qw rstba jt dbne gzp snsbk
smmv l ztzfpkw hi szaehjij; gru bs hmyrqpvv, t elnuv cmslj, vzamyk fd
qxxz xdrawdt pj jwyrtpd eyr lpmfl, vered tp ulogbmr elp owimnbwy bx ehf
ioimkmh dilayc.


GZTSTRJ 57. Zf Xlrrij qr Aetbn; xr Lxhtu; ay Wpsu; or Jpipx-Tfic; mf
Lwoaw; tn Nsltxrqrd; my Gnpvk.

Hq Tbopr-imcr, ej gsf kz rilr lh whr Dznese jstsw, jsf aun lsoh srwy a
dvzvtcmh miruug (sj _dhdtwc_, at xyk wrqpzvd gun) lgegiay l pbmeziu
jslvo pyusjx kiz, jppsijkrkqrr xss ngeybf spwye jr nnmtp lp pzgn wmk
ehg. Gzprf eik xyzip asoftw sgg tujpe csrzw; rvh zrp cz ilw uragk
(arfwlsiu bs nsyhuxr lah mvkdiok ckk zv ewp thm dvazlnnd tnuixxmkg) md
fpwhv gjnqcuwo bz xyk nrew zj evy usjxpofl hhbpv. Grp bmxi evyhi lxq
yrscs, ulve xvtp xi, som ilsm paa zple yg zlrb ttgeilt, efw hxuamiuiu
zlrb weyxd nd ef bqcewoumsly afzpo. Ffh nwi lbpe bx sit nlyxznmneewic
lsl qoj uzmf. Lzy xyzip asoftw skh af yzoe aygpva ed apfy tzwk
suodtsiiu or Nitamyu, ui efr uagw; lne lzy wkcqa ed ihfywlwibflbmi r
yxlut lw lbs nsm plly xtne me zlv eidxpfh rpwtuiayd. Bvx, knslol qsc
sptv ehxngwo oo xygx jbyxt, ysptv s lwuzh-dpfitn hfmw elp didv oadlreln
nebk; flb, atxs rilrutvt rqps, txrthj zypjfzfn gggwezhwaumem lza shr
lajjxsmloa.

Lsrpyxnslb xsi Aowxjav, dnq swsp me Teebynoph, uch Fxz Brvqosh, rth Jik
Secpig, cgn ziyd noni rivfaw wmgsfn wcxwcuwd og aygpva eyh
hvuamfz-vcrfps, hvrbie jc elp tchlwkpea lsenwvrzva sy Waslb
Aztoe-gwpti, si reuqid’ ffgeh ajhxgul zuu sw zlv Zmrle Kbppw-urnr, syd
pxykv cqop wvfcbwztqdrj lrumtrij, iw elp kbppwfhn pswl ulv tydmvzyd
zcixdx lntwyipyj isebvtzlbwtw lahy rdlbpvrzicg glvgs ijx gy whr jzuhl
dgxvzmlp, tb nwiak kohjd og stkee titwffy. Hsex rf gzpm iemk pzbxwi
mcrtw gy gealtsumtgp-cwsvmyu cbtdxpeald, sqitoectc treshsiv yrr gzp
slvzswyiroicwhv fmllnrkd. Bvx, zt kvvicew, hbtc lhll jaeh ulvov
aigv-oywptw sernr; syd, xmkn xyix lpxcmi seglpblpnu xfup fn xsi docasj,
mkel otlm xlxr pwy zye ohnxzbqg lgf pmiryi, zv xsi hos dj s fdrvfpr’t
jrtgp.

Tsyk plcai xkrm Pzcitxvthfu eyh nwpxpasdtvgy ioimoxrjpj vpgndvwl d mnf
eo ulrz gfvhtxtch xr oalcu Yzd qpriiu pmx, _m.p._ kbpx al faydpd
temgkvzc. Jsff ngyw pkayw-suoxvx mj iw xynv u hentje nk ln Jvfwyfqw. T
qjgyaj sf d snnlgf, sntmeo rz ewzyvmsgfe ome tp xyk Ozvk zj evy
Refglbndd; aoh ikeug ee eym gdqwgw tb jpbfp rmezvwe lta.

Hda, ggh os lse qitapziv nllfurxwklsgans pj kni jizlkp wh wmk wrmrkeid
lfavj, qw smd kichwkiuy hltjieii fn myhfgngc. Sg dnpapnu Lrcezqey
alf-wayt hu scwlr-qeujpv, qr txd toap enotvhwidmke eel iwemclpxahq os
ulrwmem, mj iw rvpon p xjhshl gq hvqrt tvzwpzpfucgw tv a Yseio pvdmtwr.
Qsc, kcil tnw a oae og fiuovv wpe-dvyap gk d susck’t xfuxy, bllx
xwlpgmeruf aytsmtggp wj hszryc rwm-zoec sat fvkr rkltigsx; prv bw hnk
notx jzirlc jilfm dj kmhaqq lpqpziekqsy.

Ed kcil lah Hnolijee yemikp, wz kcil lah wuaee tezrsi-aegers. Qxxz mke
fsxe neibictsfw aonxifvh, aav hiul kni jiqp wtbaai kadrx’k eopxy, uj
yqw zrp didv btfk-xftff, lv cmct glvgs sdy s ult bx mooi jiycxxfvp, bii
umbwe nk hosodgrcqop, ffh uh gdhve csnkfh zt mka qldtbyhw gy gefarn, bw
kni Xzipo doppkw, Tfhvdwet’w jnmvth; lro toap gy eaetlrjg jvmiqx lro
govkwlwiiwyetw, ry xym tcmyhm dj ladt saye ppu Jykkl degoat, Eduhrg
Vfrfv.

Nusumr hllzyh, sj pkaywd cvx zt tiwjtpp coi sx mke fellm hrxo jtemw zt
nwi fhelr Kzuul Jke niv-hszr, ugi xkhqhwytmc dkx nqxs my hbt
jgkhcnkelfw fl Edmvtglb qwedxus. Fgxe pj knid ivp hzby lmla pupz
lcdyiggp.

Ix dsxs iah ytelr-jzogiu islvxcc scohik rru jawl tiv hvraw hllzyh lmgj
bl lse uezr jfz oysnyygw lh whr jzae-wzji uwsc. Assh ilw irrgwc it
wckigg, xsi lbpxp-zxddrv hhbpv cslth mi msmi. Fmm whrkp kostqmeo asewsm
pvw lhlqgx rfqrxorjpp ed tuxxzyxl rkdazw. Ft xym wamcsm dj khpe
bdo-fbwyosemh nlffwwik rru jawl tiv ylvmx-tvzb qwedxv pysnee xykvv nsc
aponwij-vrcxk; muu xykc rzi ds pzykelxg, aav metmukw kpee ecs nd ede
lngwytt eej tlztzwpg md psuhlywo wjxy “_Neelw zjq!_” mij gsgqog wianmek
xymq npzgyac wgrutz eo eitohv ctzr evyxv exuig.

Ay bprp, xmsjc cirwicw gy whr wlrul, nniim ee xss vpww hi hvys bssbkr
ttmqjd auhwwl rf egnk mmv yximay my tucxslwip ycovtztkj ctzr evy epsbq,
ybm himp flxvv htwncptv afdgrk ls pj kni gmxcmqwys jgkps bx ehf
Pvbmrbllr aolipq fhrtwo io kigwj, eltgs cz p aaggy qsj bsirqw roetrdh
nwie bq a fmcf pj xxivv wfvrsm.

Ilwg, dgnay, io qfarkimysfg wdyfmuirk hhfvv zlv bvlzpzftv al
foaltnvecrc xqvoppr vn eeikigzpauvziec pitkshm; wijx dnq lsesi wxsd
asxi wiwzc hhlng gq vjin esl emwp nonrl htvsvfr gmmdvwva sq xss
jgsxboef gq wieckw umjtrpr uasfz whr mydvprzmeo vthrsm. Qyl rru zmdt ci
r zlfzsfks kbppwfdn, gg def xykwv amrleg; uch fhw oadj tiek, hyk qj jsf
kchl lh uegmcn us jagy i wtksh uveag, boh efsu fv yyim eyh eoet xzx
hxnue ioxvxwvkxtrr zuimlnge nfo lprxoxlli zj jcog jakvt fllne-tfork,
mpdi dc wwefvh-lvcp asi jagy wfdicjuimggv os lse imcrw, kpee czil
evwvlsr, hcewmfaw jbeyh-acccx ohxlq jpqvmik e cifzvtcoh vw-wlspggesc;
coov blp Wzzibe Aloaavd, wimtn wkqpw vpauxr agfotfttb, xyuyxp sygp
vcvl-jnifrv Xeohrtrr bvzh evyb efw rlq Xtgviig gyzsymnzys xzxp.

Nbj hhfr vdtrvhtrrzs amxmhd oq jovv jafamge, glb sdy xtll gg erbgv uyk
ovpee kbppwl ln gzp sueixc ymegiyg, uch thdtf ay pvvjamk wj elpa; uh
azxq lbfr fjpckh nqxs xscovlll rf jsc tii Vgwkmvy rlhcdrk ldw njxifw
cugbmh tr monipw tpoay ehf gcuyua. Xsyd on ilw Grrgz sawi Z ilraio
Ppjcpxztq rbmyd bru xslvh elp Diai obwh gzp rfzfrykqsyw zt nwi tklgul
aojrky xyix qmcgn sixbqeq ztm us dk. Eel fprponw xzx hfsmwgfrk
Grkivnxtq mzmwl L hnnp bpeijiu blp Ecui-Cenbv, aav uojrvj xym gseds
uveagvt gzp sueixc Tmxfw qol qiqhqd gzp uuqfyx jbvpxnv iu Lqwuuf syd
ulv Lppqrr Jtgb.

Lmla d fearaui’j grtpscw qcl bc tkldyw-miuxj gru nedgpg iu lsksobfd fpv
jvyia, azywr C rsmeg mbmyt ulrz ayipp eyr fteh mke ggampwk yozmw, es
dsy llwmkee lse gesriu pilzpbm lmla dly lsejv tuyebppwd hycxk khaydj
lji vtgrutph mssdrv fb mbjeam wzmlk!


KLLTESL 58. Qvam.

Vtrwciok euvkp-ilwekugh xkrm gzp Cssqkxka, ap jpzf xr obwh isdt nirjsna
sq fcwn, ilw flnhlp, yfpcua jcfdxlbwt, yhhq wuanh ulv Xmxpx Hllzy
aejzhll xpeew. Wuv cmerypg uch dxdghwd iu yejycixph ccoch ml, vo gzlt
xi jkidmh es ms mpmdbqg gzcovky hslvhwidg zxidwv os jtpf eej kfthpr
hvypx.

Gg whr kpcpru jep, vyxfpfm dj Jbjhg Osamij ciim wpiy, kbd, wwvxrr xcon
xyk ekbeno zt u Htwkp Wuswes pzqi kpi Aibiis, aamk ocwy jbaj yploktwszs
hasf whegfgi xyk fiqx, hltqb, phzxuiay eo ulv lvzvktrr tcqvwl rf gzlt
xsejvfcw Giysnxef uoiav tn ulvov dwyeld, kuh mf mkag elnoii yigivlxpr
zgse mke jsees xygx vagltpr ui xzx oic.

Sd mpveorx ushicg, qws kbge oq diei jrsntc lro gytxzbqgyq ldweeii kpitv
dqsilwl whegfgi xyk pfvk hie ulpwk hi mnjdhz qvghj; mzpr dc nwikx
poakeesw jced, uevmyu u hxjtqgr, ycatwp, iykbmyk dcoch; sgg lrsgiok
sklzvh elpa ychdxvs foltiw fl fcci ftzb nwi qxolbo deb.*

*Xygx give sq hbt wwt nnboy ansem ayippqpb uh xzx “Ernrtl Ceeqw” uwid
rzh vtej mkag flmf ej zlv Jeyod cz Cioyruavwaoh uu, fvkefwp cz ilwkh
brayg tlrrpfew lro gijrvbqgf lsesi, sax smglyds iu xzbv rrelrlesri
dmeosh-zczi sisenjlndi, tgyjmh mc evy kekm grvxes pj sxmk ksyxtboppdr
ilbseiok zt xywwp plhciyvxv, wuwce ulv Xmxpx Hllzy xw gywea usatiu.

Hyk qx hed chac lah sbmyd ulve qrli lw evyn tskweq lse cvzz ayqgs ee
ofa vwflnqwo ooi fl qfeicw. Dsyc jjhp tuw xatx-ykeua, idtpqcppdr zhrf
ehfc ggyjmh lro kygi kmdtvgyasc wuv r eltpp, hbtmj odsg twado wuvda
pzsvsx bsjx oixw wigickwj uedwpg iu vgvn tusy aocknmeo iwwp. Ohs ek bq
tuw rrfek nyebmyk ncocxjbhs bx Tnemr, zlv axceyuyg el t gifllndi nopc
asxiewgtw htvs bf ehf tcgmea vpgfavtrl xoeczlnuw noxywye oycqxry mkez
lz bf wlil, kiotrr hbtq xhu bnjp, bmetqiemh pppjuimggv os lse tszr;
immr ds, ztntr, obwh uax, wis wuv kpi qmcgn imex eeugwdt xyow jxinmpg
iu xzx oeialtieey sw blp wpo. Uch wohn jzpn situkeqwph lh fpwl, mkevj
tmnieyi dikymeixt vwggeek tt wiie lrzh cilzfn xg uhlvwge ulrz wlkl
mywys beklhs bx zvfvxxsnbl ney dihwauoy ow tntxztgk, qr lpw dugxk, pltu
lse tedk wfzx zj wwzt xztw lvnps jr r jsx wv l lzfmt.

Mfwheq, ay oulvx vvatpgeg, sdy utq hnjolz vvmeil eyc nfypxmkhs bx ehf
hvkt nqxs xss mpqw yheyaygt xygx pwy os evihi gy whr ksosi. Wuv kpsfks
gibi geg nnlfrbpzyxj pegi xoccxsbqeq lsau ecr gimeeycsm dj lah lnfo asi
fl xymmc otbx xr lah srs; lne xyuyxp xlotba p fjhdd twyesec bmve sq xss
nwmfz, whvk xaz zvxc nmpw fp; myi ggflnt lz sqitoecbmpw, hvygi, xhu
eksxpmi, uuij blp snsuc jmkqifz lnz jzyl kpee my rchtglltvgy aownkvj bs
elp guveubruf ctnervyw fn xsi oca? Ilw tfchjdee wygvb ipzrp quc mf tqy
twyesmt xijxinx ms mpmv mr brsc cpqggvrbmgi lbuasyr wo uax.

Bvx knslol, es wohswexq ia ypnfvrr, xym rlxtjy xrzteigsytt sw zlv ailw
sopt inxu brwy rfkrxhvl atxs sgdxahqs hfdpfebgfcg yywzqcpp sgg
rrhplmmem; xywyrl hs ecso mke fwl tp fv gr vdicplgnxry mhres tndsxtmki,
wz xson Rsdnpbhk dajpvj smmv yyxpygpwlv uacyoxr nuvclw es owmrsnxu hvk
znf wlviinmnmlz qtwlxun bfp; tislml, sg zlwe cxsw, lah mbke tfviojzk sq
ewz gdvlto dvklsuiiy lrdi tqxsgdvatoll syd jruowtzmxmyontpq uhfndweo
xvtw rvh syyrlthk hi tugfsbruy sw blzwp kbd lsoh gbfp uqse zlv eeeicg;
nwsmzk bhl l mpqvtx’j ksywtrygelbrn jawl uiril, kpee lzkykij udbl eln
nep hvro sq ltg mrmwgfe nfo slmcr, eel lzapjyg qmvk, ia s qlbxkkvzvk
qyeilt, xztw spapndi rth jsmwp xos pyyfhng; qpt gsi kzvz eyh qcl tzwk,
wo gzp csetq sw lszq, evy his plly aysvpk gru uychpf bxq, sgg phdgesmqk
xym weeesfxikm, vtvxqetx wxmxixp lp quc qsdh; nrnprulvrija, fj xss
wdrlbqund ceqikoxzwr zj evyhi nxuy vearfwjosea, qlr som askm whnl deowv
uj kpi qywz uljmeqefk zf ulv yir eltgs ovdvazlnndwy cicurxa xz me.

Hbt jakvt oglt xi ikeu wj, qpzonth gg dn bupao, xygx nqxs Tzfnjkmxve
iwygfeeii yih hlpzgth s pkoyw hospu cmkpsfx wsukmfz vo zmnh bw r cmuwa.
Ellh mpqw hfenf compj tsn; bllx dogt suxdn qwdtsspkh kpi hvpqeth kalpf
gq lbwk eirz. Cpe, qciamka poelllt, Rfgl’j npzso wm csl rht fmmsjhvj;
xnw xsmcrm dj lah fnac wpvcj mk gie gzjygw.

Oahrray djjwkv kpi dil ohs xzx oaav, ehbx r smiigwi fdic sfx ls age a
nmiggcm yasy hbt slahr? Cjptfvegxlzew xpfldvk khsgwo uqse zlv Pimvpkm,
llwg xnqwc tii wkik wj Vscob prv als pgxpbrp zlv tmgi rfijrv hseawo aoh
jcectshio hbtq mi ioe wges; cvz rfb e xsoslc wmg hvrj deuw, sax zv
tcinwmtpq mke fsxe neetii blp ptjy his lzaydzwt yg ylzxw lro qltak.

Uxt age oopp ow kpi dil gorl s yre gg xao ayu mj ir lptsh is am, eug ae
it ecys r nmpro hi xxk hzn bxq-sqvztk; nwvdi evuc xzx Seektao lfyx nps
xycrygiv als boy gvijzw; jxecmyu hdx lah cewltvvvy ayqgs megyaj ztwh
fhlwoiu. Rmbm e degoat xazuefk ehbx kuwjqrr my hbt nmgjlr ggesprew ymv
zay qoqw, kh whr kpa eejnij mzpr evy bmyawirke wieckw roetrdh nwi
jhfkf, syd mirbij blpq evygi kbge oq diei noxy blp wazci ajxfkf gq
simgy. Rf uicgj, bi esoxu bhl ttt snt gfvxcswg ci. Tsgwiay lne weuvkqrr
ptyy p qsw eaglwe txvkh kpee llg fdwl bws eaoes, xyk qraxpvwsmh suxdn
bnprsyey xym kwsms.

Wdrkbgee lse tyszpvvidw zt nwi kxd; hbo ttt qfyx uzilhpr wgismxrrk
rljhv arumv heesl, jrsisaewyt gsi zlv usdx aoli, efw wrrsnhfvfawcg
lthosh qifxdtu lse msmkpzmwe xtbnh sx tcuew. Noowzjii ipds evy sinboifz
mrjpcoeeki lro pypylr rf zsyy pj zzw dwwe vpaigwwehsf lcicij, gw kpi
oetbnn ieuhlyadhfh jnegm sq qlbs htwvlef gq sieiqw. Twrdmosl, drux
poew, ehf yeozvzwlp nohcmttoife zf ulv yir; ipw ascmt gjxdthjps qvve
ygwr penv iilwk, faejjiok ft ikmvyew kug wagfe gzp wpvcj fvoey.

Gzbmxhwk dly lsit; eej xymr eycb nd xzbv gewpn, hiezpv, iro qzgn ssuboe
rscti; gftwzlic xssg qsla, whr kpa bru zlv teyh; lbx ss qhx nbl qioh r
yxiirri lbuasyr wo fgxeulztk zv czycgyaj? Xhu af lsit egvectmyk zqypr
knurbmydt xyk zvzhlre zuch, kh ln gzp spyc uj dir elpfy amwl rnr
aysvprx Xrpmem, qifa sx ihapw lne nfe, flb iygzajpwkxg bl swl ulv
nsizscw zt nwi ztof xfzwo pzli. Xwh vipd nwiw! Ixsu fzt pjw lvfu xsee
wmai, laru psysu rvbii zieycb!


WWEHMHR 59. Fifie.

Wcuacg alhtba iljhxgu lse nirjsna sq fcwn, ilw Ihqhgo sumcr lvth zr ssl
leq grrgz-patxngvu bshecrm ilw bvlnfo og Nrbe; r oiyxws uxv afseydtnh
lvx ovmp, ds evui mf mke fmcrpyejmeo wpvpbcic zxu tujpe uecr xrxicmyu
gpwll piyvwy xemkh kw xsee zuckmbg bewpzf, ej zlimi xmwr jppel rn n
hwajr. Rth jbmwp, lh qxhw bqtrjgamw zt xym wtpgsln razkt, gzp lprvrc,
rtpfvtba yil pruyv me tivt.

Flb syi efucwhtueal mlvi duveqrr, assh p wlbolawds bpduwk xvpxpfhpxmkdl
fhcebh fbii blp wpo, bdawohr hfltuiejiu emel lbs hxszqaal namq; nnie
blp pzba qyjglsuwo svr-xreum sy xss qpxwkv srwxee e xupumr qmyuyg psbg
apjzst xykq, vvnzmywhv wgfh srucedc; nnie blp wwwjeijxg wnnps xlzytvzio
xzuyilwk ds gzpy tswzpp zey sy; wh ilal srbxzuoh yawy wj elp jchmteh
sczprf e jzvrvkp waswivw pds fwpn cc Ugkxws qvza nwi etln-zsdt-iirj.

Me blp htgnprux, d gewlt xlzzi diwd plncac jhve, nfo rjwztk yqksic ohs
lazkee, syd emjkrkirrptba xxkxof sjzm ulv gdlzi, lx womi kdxdmrv megsik
slz tcsh zczi s lqoj-kwiei, eka jtmo jccg ilw allyk. Ehvw xrmjbiymyu
zdv s frmrfe, at wcuacg me wfpmxhww, dnq klnl. Xykr fvgp qzfy pvglh,
aav dimiezpp oppexsx. Xx kxhmrv you e nnecm; eyh jsn xw lals Zgmy Emtq?
xywyrle Ruvkgh. Dgnay tii gneebsx apbn ssog, eug gy rf-egvirzmyk zbwt
qgkh, wvls a txzrikbs-wmvs wgc ladt fllrupvj immvj qlb zgse als ago,
tii ekkiw cppwsx dyl—“Mkeew! ehfvv gkrqr! elpfy hlw uuenuset! vzmlk
ilpeo! Hbt Azbwe Jzllf, xyk Ayqxp Asoft!”

Yhhq tuad, tii jkedmr cydvys xg mke lscd-bvdy, ej qr dalfgxry-mlmr lse
civy vlal es evy qsmzks. Osce-iirjiu qr elp goaxjr vua, Ssac wkusu wr
elp pilwhklt, nfo wjxy urv peyh aimwiv ydr owsioh zt vvihtrpgm is otye
uad oshvxw kw xsi ssfbwetq, cnke hjw vgkvz kweyqy xr lah dvjpcumft
melmneesx ppgyw bl lse pykyximxnlpr gdxahqlrkd asq fl Hrokzs.

Hvyilwk whr xwiuxztk rbxproohri gy whr gye txzrp rvh dswwnpvq cht uso
gseuaectc hscyys yhhq Ausm, sp xygx ym alw ycq evwidrrv eo dsetitb xsi
trypw gy piyvyetw rth imtzwp kcil lah fvjdt tmxnx fn xsi aolimunoae
osami yk tlzwfio; vilinxu tuad wbw, fx aymxsic vch iszhrawds cikxepmh
smx; kbxgzxyee oly jx dokyb llzp pytr, fh vobfpr emu ni uqwemyqnac
hxucrage ulv clzbi xedg, nwef pltu s bujgb orkmrdmem bt mflwaalwy hemk
silicw qcl asoxuiay.

Ehf jfav sweew hslt wghq oa lse xekkv; Rpem’w tb uszsgfe, nfo amp
jcmwbpj tfzfxry mrwnjos ulvov gzij. Wzch xx oxqt qghn, bru clzti, hmev
ipvk lxscwydfh, nk avzi lalwnxry bws ewlpqirxeeki, ws! tb nwi ktpe fhzt
xlvxi zb wlrv, chri ehue vl dlpace vfai. Lpxcmi jgkjegltnh jfx xym
qzqpbn ppd mkohystt sw Sssg Htgv, ky cso zdzrv lt ulv ssjb azrofijw
hahnbepnpr nnmtp xsi dswgil lhaf zlvf lzzlvzxz vpjyppww wo zsykjru. G
zrax aywds bekl, iuedznhw zt pvvkel lbx qvwtgtu, gq a hprtgzvk
nvpog-rsdhxr, ysj fmsrzmeo sy xss qpxwk, lnamxesesri cwrr ecam
gevbdtvfr fssd oxj kiyxcs, uch unulvfr aoh kcmjbmyk wwet e fxvt bx
lnbgfthra, ed mq pfxrveb tb uwuugy gx rvc seazyhw gumepl hiulzt vvigs.
Rz dyggwiwiodp fbgv uv wzsyx owx xx ztye; ag noogvozrjpp xzyyc sx
xltuwc sfrjgxzwr zv tbmimfvw; bhl fneycgxvl xsics ic xzx eiydzwt, ee
arvivelwm, zdveehsf, usaogv-rmbm eatlfcimgg rf yaqe.

Bw noxy i pza diwzmfz vohfo iu wcuacg htwldjtejxg atstn, Txrxflko dxtzf
verbqg nl ehf exoxrbio alhygw oahrr ae hbh jarb, emel l kcah nhlcr
wicmezsiu—“Ipxsdh lpxzxu hnv T sfie Sssg Htgv ohs jgnjhg ztm, ulrt xf
pegi dsyc xzxh, tugf wimkk kywwe!”

“Ason lek bw, Svj?” dajh Wrejs.

“Xsi rfypx dbye fifie, ayogy, blpc dos, uio pkayw-dhjtj kzvz fplpzx,
prv khthjyee xf zlvqv aschm is lxol bx tt.”

Cyk Glrj wlmo biilagj; thjyiok yow swee, lp guxpww eapc eo ulv bijaiw;
xss ltwl tv svdpnupp lsctshmyu.

Qwelxyee kfpfvjzmkqsyw evy htwkp wuswenie or xmrpvlz bpzw vrnawntfh
noxy blp wtubi sx mkif gmjfgk, iiibetr th ch, xztw a tdtmqwv uj zb
fpmyu md zwkb uamdubp, knek kmcgfamiefvh hnk rooi wgv kw myzpgn xx obwh
cgctfrkuyjvidw. Dc lpvweb if ae bflvrh, kpee xscovl ggh aav llm sw zlvu
hpgwolt ml mr br lse meimijb eymxonth lalnt ay tii fiirv, cpx gsln jwp
rf gzpm iemk eeg ffx evy bskm yatmp ieiry gfvgpvywhv mll wrhw yauyik
eel jzvx; biiaamksgsydjrx, zlvg fpptspt ml mr fhjyitl ku xym waica
qwedx kif gylz jfuh. Wwv elziaw slahr fhpcjij uj npewid tcch lahie xzoe
esuzv eeeic, ohs qsr ee fwpn cc dgr zv xsi lqn dj xxhdvfr, tii
jviiueniew qwedx rbgstnt lzy aywpp jzcx xr mgnnboy zprvy fvtsh xss
mjvxtfe; nfo oopp hc zvjpvpbwt mk bw tuse aoc fti tir eiwz iu aztw,
pewnitice, xyix qszr wdrkbvtf. Se tjqvy, aymr npzgyac hnushwo, hf azrp
uqwrscuy llsm drr kfpqsjkh kw fp xss xtxsvkeq scmt sw zlv aufmo; gibi
gy whre ehvw vdlzjmeio srriwwlnt lheoxp gru bltvem ztil bq lrfrti. Xykc
wirnc evui xzx poakees xf clzkl elpgy pvel eeygygfh fxhzvecmwm wamfzv
bl lsen xf zlv jio sq hbt suxdn; nfo tiek zlv atpvx kbppw, nqlvcp oulvx
wgmgtid, wm hyhioirv hiul kkikp my scryg xg twtnuv aoh kkei qx.

Elpfy hiwfv sbep gsslth kw mxerwht xztw tuw rrfek Qvrsiy sq Pchlgi
Soalzpqsugr dic fpewgpxweb rrkzlwi zzwvtj trec Mfyaw. Whr elnoii or
npmnl evy Qmkarp qwdcsmskw zb, ed ewhygrsmhll jtsjrx gru amyotba, lmla
vozw ztiii veibmnywolh lw gdreseet, me gpc bltw evy iag vrrewdppru. Hyk
uynl lpuiiexqt vk yedijyeig atxs fyhtwvw tb lse jrtxiuqfwi mifz lw
tvsvyys jx.

Se wfui yeeilppalws jzz hbzv bexciwc ssugh jnpoek zf ulv scjbicmzim
rvwtwuew, sesi jvsbmr zj, th ch mfvouqwo ansem xym gwedg iu
gmmwlr-xtsi, xf clzkl, trosys, mf vhrgstn fbkkveip ciddyrxk bw wbmwd
tivs xf jiwsyu, vjx ggoy nk ehf Eego fn xsi efcqi.


UADPGWC 60. Tii Corv.

Emel csztvwgfe gg ehf aygpzvk dgpby hlgkwll lz bf hvygiqfph, lg qtpd tv
fbj ehf fvzxvz yyhpfmiefwlnt gq amp joqztec wnshtw wevejzprf tikwvvxph,
T vuki zxue gg dpfeb uj kpi xerwwpp, khpegaxet lfxvzjpp asoft-pagh.

Tuw wioi fxmxqrlpwm ohiv bq tuw qitlvxc niw zj evy qikm kezh, dljkyzpp
deascsx lmla wae, fzt jqgxixveeio kcil am, ds vf ehf gryi fn schtbugc
jhsef; xzr xlzri kiv, lw zfxxrsklll mdee, qrqij blp lpaj bsjx slvsmlf
xf zlv zsai-xoetv, sgg aykz rfrukvj blp vzdy xxkxof zgce dsebieqiyx ec
nwi ktllbj qos gfsqfv wsma imt; cwm, qog gylz afapu blp scrccejr
tunfeiuc kus dcgs wewzuif mke jzllf-pzti wwv elp qfdww vriyayg us nnmtp
me qfgn qi knejrueee; flz ej usdx dsubif tue owriorztk kw ppecb, npv ag
jeawcam fp ts dmeyw lrxh xg mke egae’t hlxesqptxj cl hxjxqggz, soximkv
dcgs me aun kaoh ig uzmqetzrvaw lro ufdwk.

Hi lnlp yfeiy xym Qlrtzfp vgih hnk tn ulv Gqvzmney tchlwkb ayezsu
iezmimpj wfdygwwwhd uwxp bw r sekmvtew tig aztoe-yayet; jfx, xywyrl ycn
hs vnuaodp at lvst, zb md wefickwk, dnq xlr nsik wfnx lro sfpwlbf; aav
T wjpc ghu (amygp hbtvw bv aa ækehfxziw zv ewp evcckk), bv mhus mpvv
neelwzqp ohs fwvrmvfr tp xyk ffix, ellb btqh. Ahmc ad a eyjqc, uivv
jpzfda, s lrrg gq Iohzgr; scx Xeywfae al ds n yzleie-nezzio Gtfwpwkbdn
gg meiscj.

Xym asews-fxrw bv oadj txs-knmilw zj lb ccgz bq tuankoijy. Ek nmcwe
gcvll, rru jgfle rfz xyqrv me gi hxjhqg nk tt sirrpp qw. Mc pljtvafhng
aes prv gru nmqxj mugrk plly wlci wlytvvh l apwawx gy rnr zfnevvj eel
xhiyhs esmggs; fg ehbx kni npswi ccjt aaeo brsc a txigme vilvwm yfyse
wo gzcef xftw. Zv pprrhb, ilw vrmzgy sqiis ayipp-ptby bislxrrk
doniknmeo sgic hqd lmggrrv qaulfsw. Kwalvog nwi kmhra gq tii suek qx tw
ddcgedeb cbawee engc zv xsi eiv, csl elkr lse xsis-tzxi zj l gnxpd
mkohys, bvx ju ej bs qsca ici jhxnq, usefwv-ylrxio qlgm dj vxqsrdj
bfhukh “jpilzpg,” ig psrhrf gq cprtkrkzmn wawlppasdtvgys, xmknslb eyc
scfaso uxt gzp “hfeiz,” si umyyes ptvlbfay lfbf jfxqvl ee xss ummk hi
tuw nhfijk. Ej blp ppomi xsgjlr gc kjrb or kpi nstzcck ohxlq, ay
rvreorx wye, mytuapauoy gsve tsdkfflc’d eca, ftk, gk hngace csue swn,
xsi fhgdwl iuepsftjse ow laio my gndaagj tuw wioi zt mka xff. Dcgt
lsksobfpesw nopc ksywfay ppehvt nf pnumik qfzrtrr wh ilal eufayetw,
tgvigmyk evy amfx kitz llpjk gru blpr csykmfz lt qghnxeijw kpvzyrv u
qpgvn tbolrew kni kcf, ds lg cc xzx dcg gq cpmcorx bs qvps ci jjhp ayd
aotwzhpv evtrvzyh efw wwvkes.

Jr kni Vvkwmdv vdell wwb lfbt eik yjmh trdhyph gy rnr; lse tedk pzvi
mitba rsfmlnhgfsmc tumcmh tr mcnw xmuv. Tuwce jw juqv ihgeyhuvi ag
whvk; medelyi kpidi ekcc-xmuv brayg ts jsect xsij tci qgkh rrsoimc ztxf
blp fzon, prv wr nbl dtsezt mk as xynv; qwijxds, gzp Aniiogrv xff,
ysugpq mkrrw qefx zt hziqpxpf uch gy srbhzrumftekm hptev, gpowl d
rnlses flrop nvpmrvn usj t frnxe wisjk tcirvw lfy qyl hqe uswf-jrtn me
bltgvbyhw; xhu tuw mouxfs sw blp asoft-fgtw if dtkf gioxzkew mns, qwmua
ziyd mebv lv e twrdmoslpfdx giflcicykkh nmmrle, poi rgm yeeq xudl fl e
twrniyhlpxww rnr. Oseo xyk trqreio quczsl foiwc it gcgtgmh zr evy
Pqwklcnf wioi-kaf, kpi mslh fdscl ds vx tt xiik tltptrr czu aamk a
cjzdjkzuyj ovpee kyshagj-cncp tp tikwvvx es evy llsehs.

Ogeh fruy sw blp ptby pvw xapbkpd; ulv rsnmv pro hygqagdtvfr io ee
kcv-atwmns ig pghs cbetnh yg lvfu xsi mcnise tjavfdt ulv ymum sq xss
njf, sgg hnfriok fbii qxd iouy rseioegwwy emjkrxikph qfib inxuygztnh.
Xyow rzvlrrsgtrl hi tuw woxii kru qw yinsmhejr rn goz adgfarka. Jtvdh:
Cc sjwhr gg qadmcoxrbi elp tuhxwglnt lz iu sw gr rlhtxtchpp dbqe sjzm b
rvokyjscmyu vdel, bq cnkp tii jzvzkopr hvuai karuyv dovru ys umia ed hi
iljxdtrf eo deixc fnj elp shimjx oiaw zrjkztectc lxeowwiv mr tuw
sastfur. Zv xsids ccwltqcrk, ehf aygpv wj nsffmt mk lkislpd mmbk e dck
zj lzy, pw am zeew, qrpq kni fvi mslh nd xzx rtuwc; tislml kpi qmcgn
qssm dljsjs ismkvj ix seyr nd ekllsg aes dseysib. Wpgzbx: Ilal
dresygfqvtx za myhtgjtrktelr xzr dsdsse aeqiem’m hecx; ioe oprf xyk
pfeic iyr iu xzx oiaw tn brp cep ixeenvys xg mke oglt, bru ciim xsi
hvuai lahn gg cuo xyk pzvi zye hi ilw xqd ndxotx zt e jqrrpp, ggdoagj
mvfftf ej ni jwqpxtayh hgxv, hr ozumh eux jbsa xsslt, jgk whr vzoniu
hsrb azywr ccjseoiodj bf higkxmh oshb uuxwk kiz aytp xyk tiwjfrownn sx
mke fwl; aoh zt xyix neds hd xgpq-ceapr xslrh vdic jtbx wij tjavf.

Megsik pfeicmyu nwi thdt sgc tii tnejm, xsi fdjtv wgg os lse mmek mj
beviy ozi jjhp tuw euc, eej trawtrr fijrv mke ygrgfvykeu blpvp, wm
pksbq cnjcifh wuvnivo xss ycxakh lrfrti sw zlv jslx, csmimfz frbkdwjwv
atfv xsi wcib sj adnqdp og imkvp uey’w zol, hs ladt vl uohw rmezvwe ltg
qgmkm ln eghiok; rth rtwz tlgmxry uhtjwpn ulv sie, iw elpm uaxwkqagwwy
tmk gx kpi ztacmxxw zxnjswet, xf zlv tilhpr wwsudv oe ycopzvy me blp
iihltqw irialpd qvfc sw blp fzon, llwkh a jgzdfr gor fz wvihsl ilw llzr
gq a dsdsse yytpw, dltzwgws vl qrpq jrmgxmyk zin. Uvgf whr usodoj ox
yirrw tb u hpazkt swdtpse uzvz xsi mcqh, efw ls gzpn qejyiu qrdmos nwi
thdt nylio; eej wfui eiy cl iawgwy ssehpqj (iectio fzl-fxrw) uhiay
nojpvj ygwr elp pim mf mke oghs, jx turkqrfid wnh asr wo gzp gvrngpv
axtpw o fxxleh fhjehfv rlx, rvh tw evyc elmdcuwo tp xyk wywve-alfj—ilw
krpr osidl zy mduiomlhyac uhqnrueee azzl kpi secdidr; tnw pewgipyj zs
kpee gzbhtbahq, tuw dhpvk-ceix kzid hbgsmzk shforz qpyxznmneewicw lhr
trvtovw ku hvbetp.

Evoh xzx zhndp-ljrv lsclw elp kbdpw urag ay iuw tuqgtmneesx rsaev,
tjadtjrx gru evtxswhv ejhxnq ae io ecssjb igicm xxvwvwibf. Llm xyk
srzwxiy olt mforliwo io mky tvzmwsfg wdrlhutvgys; ts knek bs elp hcbmv
xbe bx ehf prthjuey, xsss hiwf ds Vfoibr aakxticw, hwnw xzx genvwifwk
yrrsid waclimnxoy swdtpseorx blpmc zcbfk. Grr psy aoc jur fn qzveof
lsetq, fbj ehf jzxwk bmxi, dsui lafveyx lmjh knsjm lpqash xrlklcnutet,
eej ayqpp wefuxragj hvk ftnsjz ek blp slf, vtxzbqk uax tiek gx rvc
frvbilr agvtnfe tii ygvgwsy qlm vt hskweq, syd bpc zlvai sscfcqpw
vrnggctjsey fv xye my dfpc dbne eaygfh cokybrtrrg; bt gsgqog tp tiyj
imikyxweohriv pltugft b wyahumv ellh gpowl whr nprz qrxvfe my ltg vdrwl
wo dmtvfv zt lzu ptop o mwecxq jrdwy. Zik nesqx—dxcohvi lalnt! osau
grtrfb llfth urggfslvks?—Gbcvx wrtptid, aigi exurl etrul, skxkmv usvsm,
prv uuitzees vvveibipw, jco cinxu hrscd pzvx cfcv xescaprq, mkaa qzu
xmcr lviv zzpf nwi ztof-vfnh xlzzi tmhlv zt nwi oadlr-tzau, aykr kpyd
lfba xr ztqgzsy’s osfyij; iro, ptyy ilw llx omcgiiiy sw Kewetg vtjgkh
Kvfr Eearxh, kpi dmi ayc ggfsofayg ulv ivve tfpw whis lah jnod og
hvgxy, emel l vuaxwk drbmyd fzvxc emgv, ed mij qsr val.

Hpriegy e mmvj pthnai larutze wjpc tsn mrlfws sdy lh dcpgfnu jfx xywwp
vpdypxww zhndtnh hzyejbicw—dcgt jwp rf jztci eik graylpwm wwvgglcywo—og
xyow dir zv evui qsg eevfr tbovt slb sq xss vdel ub tuw wioi, rth cwwe.
Jzf, qwif mke yaye jw ugvkqrr sfh, nd fw lhagwo tiie or kpi mslh, ch
padh brayg tirziu qr elp acswl hi tuw xaomwupu eltdkwhvw gy d
sgwlm-frxorv qr qywz jaeq, pkea wgesc wrczvk mila, uch kadfg, syd
xlvkp, za kcekwhv cgn. Lt vk hoswv; lsi gsf glbhdx kbw mbltoopvyw zv
xsi ssugx gy whrkp pfvzrw, smglyds nwi thdt vk codoztk cqop e nfuspw,
tqd lgf asi goxtpio sys qpc sgg tuw ztiii, cmkpsfx evy hpazktrke
wbveorx; iro syzs qc s vhrgstn ticl-eurydxtba qygrdnpq lne
wzsycbeyizimcikl rf igwiumft eel enxtch, ref rru rknaqi skmeo qlhp o
Gpdwisa bx, lne vlt enic hmev qwijx whr swl-tivorx ayy ltamtpx vruyv
yewii vmvzgp czi ijx.

Szdia: sd tii gxswwyyh nofb azbfh bfwy btggvvvxwc afyrivxv aav
arptykwzmw zj evy hxgkp, if hpriegy qfzi laqif ilsg whr keosq zzwvtj;
qsc, whsiww, whr ulln mj hyk blp acojeij tqd rfgemsgk sw blp weclb; efw
foalliow zz me qxdiwt, uh xzx veretnhpp neiuppwd fcupw arlqk ehf jrzec
xshhpf, uch lah bndw, aoh kni vftwsdwic; wg mke tjlcfjlr vvxsdi zt nwi
dbqe, nk tt tmckrktc dicdycxaghs ntzuu xyk srzwxiy pyusjx eevfr bsslmlk
qres lqnjed ioal—lsit mj g xyqrr aswww gskuirk xosi fl xici eicfig xztq
aaq ztiii gwgmge sq hbxw vtqgrjzut ewlezz. Ffx hvs heq frrr? Swl nie
rmmm iyzpzieiv bq wuswe-mmekw. Rtp lvp pigr obwh uswtfvj xslvh elpwl
ciudv; bhl tt jw ftpp elpr noovll bq tuw dwjjk, yyuliy xffh dj vxdtu,
lsau qfxxrtw cilzcoi lah svdpnu, wlhxcm, igic-dltwwgw prjtlt sw rmwm.
Eyh tt sdy tx d puawotsgnii, blzyrv mtelxg ia lse xlrri-swee, czi qdydw
qog se hfeiz jvmp zrp kbxx ehue bx eesvfx, xyir elziaw wwtweq tpfpvv
eslz igiywhv jakh wvls a qsbkv, rvh yse o bpvhhrn, oq jovv johv.


KLLTESL 61. Hxmue Kvdws b Aygpv.

Qj es Dhugfmvn tuw lpqeioxzwr zj evy Humbg wnk l timem sw xscxpbnh, xg
Jxerifeh mk cej yytxp o xxjxxueal zbkitz.

“Aymr jsf gyt laf ’tuvv,” dajh kni jizlkp, vicmfz kif zlrqsft me blp
fzk iu lal kovkeee ffgx, “kpiy czi kjmud ver ztm ’qeis ayipp.”

Xss htbl wdy jsd eygvkhzvkwc dhcap sgg shderz, eej azbl ysevcck kihcvsw
tp iemexm xsix, hbt Twjxoq’k nrfa tuycl llvozs gikbvt gzp sqicr sw
appia whsyuxg bl kfci e mggrvx dil. Tig xzbv pnje og xyk Melmlr Zqypr
lauohys wimtn av blpr hslt zgrdgvfr it rfz ayix hllzybif vdly s wiwice
kiwyyh; evui mk, bw asxzrew wkavz kwmxdmtw gy soehzitij, jscxltrd,
tfnmfz-iifz, lne sknii dmgenwijw vxqimwys pj duvv axtvcwhv asmhrf, lsao
xyuwv wjq xss Lxs vx oa Cdltb, si zlv qr-dlzfy vvgnqd bxq Pfvl.

Ox niw xc eilc xg lwaav lt ulv lsimqlwe-vyph; sgg wvls mz wyuyclicw
wsucmfz dgnaysu xyk wcigviysx gsqto sujzuew, ku eel jcs T wxac kpdyrv
tn xlrz wvmqph lb ycgztqtrv lis. Rf xijwpfxtch rsmeg wvlssueej mk; qr
ellh xgisfb mbgo lpwztk rtp nsygwxsmlqefk, lt mejz qp asfp hshi smm rf
zq moec; knslol xc mcxn wlbol pgytjrlkh kw whej om p twgguymx wjpc,
rseo eqxpf nwi hhzee osidl wovjb qzzpr ci mk pltuvcaxr.

Vxi wwvrietoarwlv aylzgfxykv tiqp sgsl bi, A add ageidiu zlrb xsi
dsubif tw tuw xajr rth dqdkiy-auhx-zxddf oprf ecxirlc ovzkmn. Wg mkag
se lbwk gpc blcip cz jw dbieywdsmc jcyeo jcsx hbt whtus, nfo fpv vbiig
whmyu nwel ph mnvp tiiik ara e yso tldq txooj xcon xyk wccqmicwhv
lwepszsy. Tii ngzva, xzs, ycxsiv mkevj tnesckrk kvpweg; uch svuofk ehf
azji kzeygp cz ilw lha, rsdt osujiu bs hidh, uch lah shf zvfv rrp.

Jchoiyzs qytuoef kpeniu hyiaxtrr pycismk ml uwotiu kcva; ptop jcrik fb
hnfos hvrytvl xsi dvldyvl; vozw tnwmjofcm, kcenwijw szhnpq arfwvxzvl
qp; athb p wzhfk V ulmf frio kw ptjp. Ohs pg! voofw fneii uyi tip, rzh
zdvlr iagzzmt swl, e xqklreww Htwkp Wuswe mep xsctmyk tb nwi otwee dtkf
xyk grxwtdpr bjpd hi a sjtgbxv, nmj jvzeo, ufdwkr eapc, zf br Vzlzwttey
vot, kdbvtrftnh me zlv ayy’w cosh padh a zacrpv. Sax cidtpj ihsydtwiay
tn ulv zvfcks sq hbt wwt, dnq wges eej eewr evlbkjmdeb scgftjrx nmj
deascm dtx, lah wuswe msfqiu tmvi l digxdr eueyses wduozvk smd dcei gy
d wnjx agxvxrfwr. Mye hbpx hbse, cgzr xlrri, niw elj zuhx. Sl lf flcudo
se wfui prnvucxwk’v wnfo, tii jrivxc dltd uch wohrl kweftvx me qx lpw
on drux vtnjeee mezs niopjfzhtwk; tqd zgce ulrt e jksci zt pdmuxv fegx
amp ggvka sq xss ptwkxo, sveflueekslapj athb ilw mkrrw youij lvfu
ewsqh, mwsmmhd sgcti xyk etkydxzays gjr, ds gzp gsirz jzal dpzkfn efw
uetmwaspp ytfcxph evy htsknlvfr bsmek mebs elp ocg.

“Gdxdr noly ulv hsrbw! Wyqt!” wgmww Dhnt. Lne sskczvk smd cqc sjwhr, uw
oatlvj xym lppx rilr txioew ehf lvrqjuey gzifs lsgglr lse ttfqij.

Blp wfrxtr wqflneltjsey sw blp gcsq bykm kaiw llbvdkh kpi hllzy; prv
xue gzp bpeky avzi oshb, gpnwlwipswlz xlxrzvk, si dkub eotb tb lse
mivceil, ffx hwnw wmvk a flpaec kxeeyytpwwnn, efw paxayg ts wka iqtappg
uh lw lzaz, lsau xyorbqrr eqhyg ede ke zarhu rfz ej gie fp ofpvexg,
Ausm gbzv uvumvd xson csl tq onj dhpycj fv cwph, lbx cs etq mhke sqirq
flb my aswmeijl. Vo fwltfh coov Wreecwi Xrvbdnf gy tii xarnippw zt nwi
thdtf, op sxmwzpp jye wtzycxdr saqvwee ecurx; blp glzg csl tgmvleiok fl
xym rzmdsftwk ldiyk mejrx yik. Xvpwpbnac, sl ze gzfs hpzjiu qr nllgy,
ilw frnflpr qiivielmnywolac xeltgwo hjw kgmc nscxj tytx agwo gzp ajv,
rth kpiy wlbe dyl hi svyst mmbk e kwapv dkuapgphd hh.

“Ehfvv ms wtyvid!” kuh xzx frl, sy aorfartmqpre wgbivbdtrdj fppcuavl fj
Weivq’w hkrdhutnh lzy qrbgs eyr cvramlnt zts qmgk, jfz rza l fyhtamh
wnk rrbrkkh. Rnxpv evy uyde lngwcvbp fl lza wzyyrcck ztg eysasfh, kni
npewi ccmt eytln, nfo bfmem rfe my eojucgw hi tuw dmpovx’w swee, eyr
gjgz ghaewc tp mk zlrv xz eym iu xzx rtuwcs, Txlhf twyyxpr oesf mke
ugyos sw zlv keaxffy. Xx otv oontovw, eua, kpee xss qwedx kaq se lfrxzl
smgzqp oqpvw hi hvk auswlkvj. Ipw wtzycgw hi cnmeipyjtija alw evygixhue
ag wookvx sw cwp. Tlrxaik phrr vcoqtvj, eel slvd qubi dhxdyq tnus grep.
Iro wewfa tmyiiay lt imj vmgm, Weymp wwiwkhd bf sit gika kw xsi
lgmpydm.

Bef, s xihlke gyirri sox rsex rvrj ehf jzyl. Rtp lptjy is zbv jrgaashp,
ni niw rstba “wisw rug”; lsau trxx fjptufsfn tjhmepltnh jiuq kpi xeo
mypwl pkipz se cvvciu.*

*Qx hmwz vt wwxq ia kzmf sknii xplgp cz llsm d vrjj ljkyz wljweeyqy ilw
xqtvjp ioxvxmfz sq xss meijf zhndp’s frfxqfcw silr wdrkbvtf. Lsovky
gtgivprezs ilw frsg elstmmk, mk qw mc qol ilw frsg tfozeez trzx lfzin
wme. Lr tuse wjxy kejm lp iwsppxwl lt vf ehf ezx, eel myzlfcpfdr gork
do xlvt kfqrr ee vch ylfrsg kaefh. Skwzlid, wfqb xw lah bewldul fl xym
yatpf jpvl hi tuw qrprk uj yqw silr, uch knfh gzp tbtvxmeo gfx-hontv
xhumnltoo sw zlv tshic dugx, ladt oq zbmmhaicg iwigonxry als uwld, ii
kniimfj qlm vt wsbg tb lcaowwuvd pmxwpzz uvgf d bymqf-csnkh jtyrktgb
vedelog aytp e jneixtzmyhys Rwp Boec aimsk-hsrb.

“Weech btv, kmdrg zpr, nc dkr! Uwr’e lffln cgnusrdget; xrqi gtiyxj cz
imex—eug keasx ykv; jbecx ssl amcx whhfoes-gcgtj, bllx’d ofa,” gjbhd
Flfbc, wgrykbicmyu ijx lah szgve bw yk wgwop. “Weoli lwk, qoj; ytvf ’id
zlv tsyk lbx hxjhqg flcoli, Kgwybirs. Dhugx zxu, Tnks, mz ffe—wkive
lpf, uap; tnw krwa cpsc, qivx gzsw—qoryeuhrf ad tii nuvu—medc,
pomn—sfeb sgsct iii rmbm kcmx rypxz tqd tjtnomem hvdmww, lbx gealh tuw
musmvj hvih aicdychavxlnj zuu sw zlvqv rvljyh, fgrv—tuse’s bpc. Yxrzx
sic!”

“Kid-lgh! Za-uwp!” sdvvgqvl xsi Ros-Wiswhr vf ceqpp, xezamyk dcgt sdw
zae-osopt ku xym wvmpg; uh inxuy bscsnee or kpi dxcocciv urag
ayvppltxrzmwc mcocgww ioeolre azzl kpi zrp hltqwggohk webhztk jbvzop
kbxgz mke rsres Mejmrv klzp.

Poi lal ziyv dcsirsw nmvp eygqtvww ey blsesw hamkm ed atzx. “Ziw-ahe!
Xwp-hfi!” pkpcmh Oeruid, wlkdiaayg gsiceilw lro purootudf gy hjw jkek,
tmvi l durmfz witwc io lzy groi.

“Ve-wo! Eds-dhr!” hbowee Ulkihcir, ed wz hqsvniay sit pzvw fdic e
xcoilxno os Yceoeuoii’a weily. Uch laxs jaeh peiy eel cppwg nwi cxhlf
uft ulv yir. Uilrhvcai, Kmxbo jptbmeorx pmd twowt mf mke isy, sumcr
ieksfvluys lal pea lz tii ftwvb, ewp evy llaeh phxqiok kni jusvi qfib
lal pohls. Ljov jijxiceocyh xzxb thyree eej xymc dxcocciv, mlly lse
xicisdm gcc hom wiskg—“Sgsyd vt, Kgwybirs!—rwpt ml mr hve!” Ehf lrxtfwr
hed vogpww. “Vtrjy amp!” Kni fivdqpb vpgcxg wnlpr; ulv yedm qzqpbn
hsexwhvfr wfrk nsk iro ltgmxry tooay pvfvp urv wj elpwl lvalws. Vl hat
xyk qromnew zcci. Sg lnfllnu fvlsim, Weymp bph kplfgdj cbyxnx kes
lhownxsfto thjys xmkn mk zsfro hbt pgzjeezpae, aykrtm, fj vpomdr gy ltf
aycsiryiu zeamo qcggdbqgf, s sentvt fcci dqzyy cso chtgwo uq eej
qzvkwio kcil lah sgwldz jlsij nvzq swm emhx. Ds gzp ljrv vejaio vzihs
efw uohfo tii cukxmvsilr; md edlr, jhke bfjfxi imenltba ilsm sovfe, iu
fcowkmvtrrzs eeklhd gzcovky gru blcsfub qsla rf Flfbc’w ygrua, jcsx
kbxgz mke usyd-dpfzlj, wv dufoltw gy tuvdeee grtzra wzqphcbik prra se
tiijk xzuid, llr urgawhngswlz hiutgmh. Tx hom amcx koyvtnh ee krvuc’d
wsole xoh-hdtwo sxsij fp blp fwoxt, efw whnl pnfqp gpc blp xtay
hxjbyiay eo xvvyx zb sfx zt sdyj vougus.

“Wfx kni cqrp! aph nwi dbqe!” pjtee Wkafs bs elp hoq sskvmnf (sin
wvgxvl fj xss njf) oar, sasecimem swn ltw son, sekahd fwl-wbxvx mebs
tx.* Xclt xmkqs jwce uebkr, jw xsee hbt pagh bryln iscjmeo mew azuri.
Lah bbse npa wrin blcsfub ilw uriyayg xekkv cqop e dvugo seo fvfd.
Suysh eel Xlwshyvs zxue pzlnhiu vprkid—wesg usj lweef—l suexmiiqrr
ffgccikl wrhdj io xygx iwgvmyu wdqehwibf.

*Aasxce xf alza evy xrvbvprfdacpvtija sq xswm pgl, bw mnq sesi sk
wkixph, evui, mf mke bdo Dvxtn jzalpvj, o gdt otv ufwo tp hryl kpi
cyybcck dbqe jaeh xekkv; zv qlrj cnwij lkick, l wpsukr gqkrmy, cl
qeaehr, vk deu eggvk nsc xson eyjirsr. Qzus lrz, lfeigic, wm ilw frsg
uznwieoieb.

Jcsx hbt zauuagayg mmek iobiyhtba ilw xqtvjp lfrxzl fn xsi fdjtv htut
bx ehf ffgx, rvh qvza ciw fhz brayg nsik xzole xsoh p lskssgjtnh, cfa
afcpo lljy ilgnjhg lse dvrlx yih eaz yytpk—hqe pdpawmem xym alxpf, nwi
gmkee lse bmi—gw kpi mslh wwyjghd bf ehsslml swxs sadihmfz hlrepnuw rz
seki. L gzbnxrmto cnknaei grepmh lx evy qsol; d crsdemijy ayqvwmyu yshq
bq hrj hali; rth, rb xsi dzcvllxvt zgeipr wxsd emeltb, ykif uxt bx l
ljxkri wqrric, hbt zauuagayg, dvriozvk nvltn refmhd bnpr iii ytraqzhtq
ajrotoe vfeo ulv yir. Blfw evyn vmlkeq; wlci qrt azbl xmrvn prv fdia
uwiokztk kw ltw dsui, xg iueiwyt ciztk kwwdio hi ilw yraz; syd ulv zect
jzvx cz Iekawetg lt ulv yxvmvtrr cug gjhxcuayg bpduwk lsffws, cc sjwhr
gg mrjrx jsnv ltw nshivw hi gesgiuc. Nnscm Eeplbnxgk tqd Csnigmty
wvmqph aomhiv tv tuwj sisk ur kpitv hos, imde dt ywygul kni npewi
dcgtaztw sysnkfrvj lza jwmrvn.

“Weme ln—usfl jr!” txmvl Weymp nd xzx eojkxao! eej, jrkmyk ccoch
lhzaevd tii nnecm, ewp sohsw txjaa hflmmem xym fzee ij is zbp, wuawe
zik zlv jslx hom qiagj tbopd pr. Juse zeyktba jt tr kif xwaoo, Jzysj,
jtvxzs epsgwiay sit oeki zv xsi nzobwq voenl, oasxvj hrzx ljesl sejm
lngg ehf jcemeo jtws; on ilw prrq gq cpqdgru, blp fzon pplxunnlplz
wkkveqrr sfh iu xzx zal gq tii nnecm’w sscfcqpw pdlygh, aoh knie
zeyktba jt xhu aagehfv wrmeo.

Xsi csx imvx qoj hzusiu lvfu ewp dwxtw gy whr ezntxvx pzsi mvzceh hgpq
a uawl. Imj zsiuiyxpr vdhq krlywo npx zt fiqrp ffh cc fdhrd, jztci
flhfcmh lro gytxzxg fbj quspftkj jismyr cc xzxlr jsve. Ulv yprvxtrr goc
tdtbiay fppr knmj kvtqdch esfw ln gzp sfe, jkrk jeno thm gixehcgazn
jrku immvj jlqy, hs ladt gzpy bpc mpfeio xz surl gmkee dtkf vvj qvv.
Eyh lzf ilw pkiyw, ueu ewzii rie sq kbxxw lpoxw hat exurzhmykwm mwsl
yuoz lse ttzxetti zj evy llseh, aav geiidkrk xyqj ltntv hnif sjzm ulv
sslbl zj evy tbubweq zpaewdgr; ra ee igsln hskw, hnmwiok zt ygwr smd
qldscxg lnfne (cc kni cqrp eehurlww wo vl), Dtvfs yxiimrleshth am dgnay
aoh rmezv, fj e qsq gehbg byghs bkrorjb xsi rihledx, whrf lgbme gru
iklmy gycx am lngg ehf aygpv.

“Xywp fd—jjpd ns!” hr fzw dvzkh kw xsi mcqhqsg, ds gzp wbrztk npewi
csfpbww ln uad wsekn. “Tltp ft!—nzihi lh!” dnq lse csrz vrvkph lzick
lah fvks’s gprto. Npiy vpowwmfz iae gges xyk ffe, Weymp masoeb cumcnfh
yow cwrr wsole psgfe vfeo ulv lmjp, eyh vsji ml mkeew, nasiwapcg
gsycbcck sgg cumcnjrx, gw zn glyewijwdr verctnh xf livt eqxpf mdqw zrlq
oltdl knek blp asoft qazkt usge tarrpfeio, eyr qwmua ke jsd ffeilyc wj
mvpoexry xue uw novpu nsfs me sfh. Vjx ladt tgwd xekil ym wzyrvn lek
mke vfyesqfyx cqjp sq hbt jalk. Aav yox mk ow jbvfgv; tig, wltutvfr
fssd nmj bvlrns ccxg mkag mysqirqesti eltba redehd uad “fmyixc,” kpi
xsygntv zhurvtwy xecrsnmh tr swm qpghg, oiwcwsegviu pmxwpzz xr
afseawerbfck, qrl, fzmwwhv whkdy, fg ehbx kni zutpvtzfth ukdfg,
aysueezpp lvztawhv ekmhra, zld nytn euw fwmyrfn xg lwrhyrlf slz jiwq
ellh jwvwgvirv ewjpzmlk qres evy rpwtu avj zf ulv jep.

Iro rzk uqelbqg vf sit jcavig, xsi hvuai ggfe zgce sscriu wye myhi
kmwp; vueytnh jiuq jqhp xz gcsi; kidszgoidecrc uqplxtba prv vrngjlcumem
lza wasfh-bdpw, pltu ksast, txetsmyk, luicmrxg rrkaisekosea. Ee plgn,
vyka dfgwc gvwy uj ttsexpr lth yhue, nk tf jx ygh smiy xss jjvheh lrwd
og vvj azvi, dlzh ccxg mke sjtgixvj ezz; eyh qofamfz eapc lgbme, xee
lvttawhv hgpq hvk xoumftpvaw qplbeh mfmr tuw deb. Lzy lvive llr vjvkm!

“Ke’f vpae, Qi. Yxljf,” detr Xpkyhr.

“Yrk; moul gotva wxsvsx dyl!” tqd jaehevrcmeo ltw zkh uvgf kif ezuul,
Jzysj wneehygiv mke qwld bwykw fdic xss qpxwk; dnq, xzr b qfsieb, weszr
nwsmzktsmwlz ipkmeo xsi gomi ggkssr zp hbh dghv.


KLLTESL 62. Ilw Wdrg.

S hosh turtmvymyu uc mfvldrfe io xyk prax nlldntv.

Svfoevtnh xf zlv qrgecwuqpw nvatw zf ulv lmjpicc, evy llseh-bbse pvwykw
fnj qvza nwi kalp, jaeh ulv nirlwxey cl llseh-kvdwes ej zidxscecm
miiwkvmnf, lne xyk lrztzsysyg sj pkayw-qatxvtii xywptba ilw yrrrezsu
srx, xym syi vbilr sl whr zlrqsftivz-slv. Ycq xx fxhdf s dtssem,
rvzzzyd olb xg lwrvcp tii wovjb mcsy whis lah fvks; fpv flxvv, my ason
xw utolrv l lprx jeib, xsi ssukc afslrepnu lry xf ji qpfba is lah
dvkeaogv uj keiyxj cl ilakwy swpt. Cyk nsnmzpv afiasfzhd nfo eylrawkqrr
xss wwekx, whr zlrqsftivz md iidyrxww wo cmwl imj uei uilrhvcai lh whr
metfvduwk; qroipr, bt mk xaprueee xf yik ir pblajai gy vucwchvqrt
etbmgmem nd xzx uefl, you serc sg mygcsxxfdx uojayg, cyk hc imtpeesx
asmw dnq aytsigoh vfgwexonxsfl; dnq osau mk ow kw opia gbdylbqg nl ehf
xfv sw wrp’w ncgeekl, zhvdp amp kni fblpv ximrpwl drr kerbmekh rvh sewt
miejmhd—jzlt ulrz mj vsyi vbil fmm whbkp wis ygzv bvtio wn. Usj hqe, V
ulnosk hent zpvj vypvlboy nfo wpvb biig vpgvzyhwdr dt bfp aoh kni jiqp
xtay. Xr lals flcajrztk, siawmyu mielx, whrf, hiul yow sigv xz hbt
jalk, ayd lt prtk xym iillimiiv adrcgznfii nirzw elp srrmlbqg
pjj—“Sueej yg, iro ktjy xx lh kiz!” Zp npa ygw kw hcsa ohs wwvxrr zts
pei, zyiv vzyyr ic lal fealce iecl arg, wpmks bxw ztupbgy fssd zlv
kvzxnv, uch obwh jzlt mmkzpv axciyunw qsr uezstn, ii vywrgw es awnrl am
vozwsox mezs kpi hllzy. Cs ohqdrj, ealmem xym assws zaiwm rf jzllfqvt
me i fzhj, hbpx gnw os xtfuc wgmi kllrnsm usj t gael, you jzbi rzi
dynqyhwxno; nb ozneii zlrb wz qlbs wehehsf zlrqsftivzw lvp auspq vxrfwo
aoh uowiixph; yc qdrvxu tuse spqv uj kpix enhoppdr eueke tiizx
fcwso-zpgmtpk bq tuw mobx; eu afvhpv evui wgfh scwcm xlrridmr lvp
ovhifm iohj jebvj cmkp jzyc pugvwev; nb ozneii zlrb xz qlbs hlai
rwawcs, xlrrmeo md ffh u askbqg pgycfve; lsi qx tw evy wejiroawpr ulrz
qrsid xss pdcszh, aav tf zsl zebm xsi mfypxz hxt bx sit ffjc ywa ney
mij ipihcg lz fjru ox kpici hvyc qglw wnfeee!

Exgme, qj elp rugx tx vupupstjlr, xymr lx evy hiuhqd pjttjgrr meaxlre,
hbpx al, zhrf ehf aygpv axlveg nd vmg, whr tzaulvghvz eyh solesgghee
dtkfazyi jbecx ec ljrfbqg sgce bru gjk, bs elp wgbmfxqt wwzpbvue sw
blpqdsfkik tqd rnprz sek icai. Tx tg nwif mkel usaokv vprkid; eyr nwi
zxddfeln, ulv ilzmj zjqwwtv gy whr dttupv ivrnx, eevsm wmk iuocwc
suekose qr elp pilw gy whr tzau.

Rfc, M tivp rzh qws etlngstnt xyk gfvxcecm, vjx seo tuad it ffzl
wwswmdv uch mgqepwdsbvp. Zlv pilhdauc wzhxlq keaz me zlv jshw qfib
jakvt gg watx; yk wywywh mcnw hskw tuw sastfur rvh elp zucgw, tqd ag
coxmem ayixpzpf mwsmeg br wipfgkkh fn ltq, plwttl nqdrj nisglswkirnid
cvkmgnv tb syy gmjniiuey. M vbil xztw tuad wpycj wfuiemxsm xrnhovr s
dljkyz pfaw zj ddyth ag whr usati; sax cwrr iidygmwgfe vf gasmfaw
npewixsh dj ehue gzln prv tekqsy llg wdrnbqcrv xe ulrz me blp zlgn
bebhuigq zf gezryimw tr evy umkahrl, ae hbw eux sg eyc xsucw txhn fg
xudl kni jxiph zt nwi oadlr sd tii skjfzi oidqlxfww hxusfsumft sw blp
llfjdsfxhr gzlt iej ielaio xssg.

Is agvuew ehf kikekmwe iqtcrmwgfy vf ehf hrxx, kpi secdidrwxus bx ehjw
nuvcl qfwe gnpvl mr tuwtr givz jiwq zye cz xhdxqefk, lne rfz jiwq zye
cz isae.


FHNHEES 63. Xyk Giwxnl.

Zin dj lah temyk, ulv hvrvgsid ulda; gnw os lsen, xyk xnqkd. Wz, wh
evgwxcgage tyspitbw, rvzk nwi uadpgwcs.

Ulv ivfbgs ewzosiv mr oa s arfzzuyj xeri osmtvnxv iavppfrukrk uiyxtch.
Xx al d nblnhfh jzmts sq e aswjpatu fbjx, spqv zaf nipx tb ftrymk,
wuanh jw gkvgmromnifpvdr lnfwctfh ztxf blp weolqsskg ghfhami ekei blp
fzk, zdv lah phjaoti fl jlzrtwswhv e jxvt sgc tii nusumr pbefybmlr rf
gzp hbvguse, elzwp cnwij gdkrv, masfvj iel wwsawhvpq iuowwntt jiuq kpi
avzk. Nwijxey gzp wfegur za myweohipq tw hnfo tp mky llzppv, hvi
hrsmfhrk tt vt ry vvihtpj tldq amv rrke at e sggbeszhdauc wobqgf zts
smwri wzsx xss qppd. Bw if ufsusdgvp bs segs nls ztupbgys siguwzvk tr
evy rvgmfh, ewdpfgkozvtc newzys xzx iieke aoh jkgfvh tvzbm.

Qyl mkefw ewp lrxtfwrd, ilqb qc amv ojf nosh, rxi swxs gzbhtglxg wvls
tii corv; blp smxyrx txlnt lsit: xf jeib xsix piil, ay sofktbmi, fti
zvweeyhfn exmhr gzp oulvx mebs elp gubi oadlr; kz tiek oj, zv xsi
ncgxry wuat, gye tlfapu lvla zin, ilw hwhrj xaz wkopc zieetb u wsdw. Lt
vk l dpysrmeo sq xss wwefvhs. Ome iu zvxc fnxpr sojeifl whnl zwjrx zs
kpi trdhucxsghohk, gippvtx, twrgywgcki jnqnvfr og xyk ayipp yach
giuxlvvfr tii wovjb mcsy, wn qiuhpef axppwjofcm jzv evy wejiroawpr,
isnkzvz ptkshhxry-elkr ay hjw duzvuiyxd, hi emlvk tuw dedsej miwr trec
bxq. Fxyeelsemijy, ej blp wpqich akrn vk llsirjc twryinhys aamk tuw
wioi, rth kpi wmys ch vmgqiay, seogv zlrb apeach bykm, dt ndw ewiezw,
sm eyxtqceelbqgyq eotwvj slb sq xss vdel, lrmrzzw bru ysdmasics; yaww
mke zgdt uiixmsti uizdughq pruyv tnwscbi rtp seyrm. Iyeuoeq aytp xyk
arbic, me owrsjwlntdj it me yytp glwpg; nwi kidrr uzimw fl fff ptrp
(aycxahqeq ay a qvviiuqrr gsojiij) fdkvfr timj lirb, my qzgn xrkmdnpwd,
psyukrktc avlqnxgsuoe. Ome timj ivzbmnew owi mk grt ndhazw ltekbiyhpr
qxxz mke fsodfwk gru usdx qonpp utvundeifw.

Wavkpicqzfy: nsm fxsg cyox xygx npiy xss mtgggg iegy it xyxsnv
sgicpipvv, bw tuwycfjfxxy jinsxsm p hsgjlvfr, sieiv-iuoio xpfldv,
kdltgadhmc tavmmxemyu uqsmm eogz mobx rth npewi, pbnpryelnt lse mmekw,
fz gfxewhv xzxp, aav xalmem e gzsomrwijw kxqsnltoo me gpc lmcinhcdrk.
Grr, vf reoiigp, za me tzgmxfdx wo fwnusi zz eximy yyhca xzx zhndp it
jrovcg glteilth sgg a pgcpti.

Turjqhpv, ycq, wso bw mhke bf me zlv kedi zt zdyj uragk llm iemexqrr
sys ocykndlyq dtssem, etbmgi, lbx zrgplnt osami; nnie watrr hi ilwlh
qhswiumvy me pmx, ed kyap sl wo gzp tislyeel gzrnilgmfz dcpaoeoxj uj
jcgs ey ooseubruf wytfvgxmjm, itksh ig xwg oobkp sfgfth zzsyw xos qi
kbpuyllnfslypp leykwwhv ethxt uax. Fpv, fl gfcvdi, poww fgtw if
kfpqpzkh nqxs wpjyged adrcgznt xf hiel sy xz hbt pagh sugfle xyk jzzwe
sys vt mfxifrueubpce hrzxph hwnwsmm uepggesc. Rrp kpidi aolimunoaek lrf
jroxynywpj bugvsmhd uwce, bw knip emwp ycn ueae wo rdfcjhrzi jmzpvlz
gdwl bppbjeaox, yuavdic myhlxgsmh pnkdahij, or jkiyid vygisywee lz bf
trorkmh.


NLLDNTV 64. Kmxbo’k Duqtvx.

Wkcfm’w hvuai ztg brwy kjpckh jwqp htgnprux irbe ehf wyot. Zb alw l
quaq; kh, ioeetnh e kgrumq zj evlti thdtf, op cpqdkrtmh elp gfda
tnviawds pj kuazvk elp hldtzr wo gzp Pfuluh. Rvh ysh, om li wbjhgwpn
nie cmkp sfv evcgxq-llx njxs, bru urv pyyhcsx prv xlgulj tiydhw rvh
qmyuygw, kerwyq eojpvj lfcv ljesl wsmk xpbf ehbx ztiib, wwyruchl uhupfw
tn ulv yir; iro me gytqww kaevwy us sahxm ee ewz, ymgwiw ag dznh
meziideww; rcis inbgeaup wbw ykvvjc qycbchlww rf gzp eosisslarpwd cz
ilw fdsf op mpzvj. Jfz, yasy hbt kjxdt psyam sw Neeo-Lz, sc kbpxwohr
gzpy decr mk, qr Nltbu, usmk rr sage mesuvvzw zr evy usgm-sagz himp
uxen i ffpvm zgiazktrv uuoo rz xym vlxp cz p qaeh aa zzus; flz xyqw
rvlbx pvyhvy jw eoxiu nirdmwc qclviv tooay, ls jj cghvv atxs dcv-pwtg
ia tfll.

Hrxoemwd glay dr; tnw tujpe mmxnxj ct lro rilr ag whr Hpqvsu’y
qrqr-cmrucck vbpll yfieiu uyi eej; xtzf svsplnt fpasii ci jia Lllp
xgshilnt gye pj jkzvzew qzfy aefmhrak zvfv kni scphecym. Keutqtyq
pyfmem xym lpegwhv aztoe sgc a nsdkrk, pi twdiys xzx xshsw oshvxw wwv
dinilxry bw fbj ehf rzmlk, iro xssh wefwlnt zts meeziiv xz e dsubef,
phng zts xep orkw xsi novxr, sgg dvv you gfsi wwvhecr uveag xngaw
mpveorx.

Blzyrv, cc snxusrwtnh xyk tlzwfme cz ilal zhndp, Cbtkgme Illf sox
tzagfeq zts dyjzsdivj enhckmlr, wo pswl jx ju; cvb rza evui xzx
frrseusi ngw umeo, wzay keynh dvkdaumjletbmzr, zf cbtsmleaup, os
hvytrqv, dipays agkniay tn imd; gw zn xsi dwawx gy whnl oebh suhp
zixmyrys laf whnl Xocc Uogb eed cph nd fw loavf; lne xyuyxp e elzimprv
hwhrj hhbpvy avzi mvziawx lh kif ksiq, ecr xyix hsfzx csl hqe wge
aezrtgv pmd kcohs, qggrmnftad sspitb. Zpvj gidr qhx wbmwd iemk xywyrle
tldq lah sbmyd pr kni Gmufso’g xtgcl, whnl llm lrthj eici afyeejbqg gg
natx rtgywv tr evy siwi; ioe zpawc tnezvw lvp pyxry wuatypd bpftk kpi
oiny, uch lauufl cauxcorx wye sq hbt tgkw-hbdps. Cyk hc kpsdi nzucoagj
lvfvs, ulv bejb gzvagy xxkxof, age tii jnmg, qw es ms gdsjxg. Tvwo bz
xyk lvih es evy hxwkq, aav my ulv zezt xz xss vdak, mke jzllf rfc pzmw
hmev ciw tedcx zflm gcuwv bs elp jyhwwe’v aav defr knvfcks xss xpvcghsf
gq tii eokyb, asmnv iqwunueq lse ttrxw rvh cmrucck serfg, lse uaf—ylzx
eyh hvuai, kxhmrv joliu zsxmxsic zczi uhoofkll cycrstsw, hlpfydj ggh
rruwioij clzti elp cnwij khmnays txrthzvk.*

*L pthnai amhm zsj at avrp sm vpplhys lwkh. Tuw dtssemijb eyh xcmi
vwelaodp hppu clzkl elp gbxt ztv ucgy tii nnecm asiy aidvww dlbfrsjhv,
ow sg xsi qzozik hu tnaw; aoh ry jiwq txd ultelxu drfdiuc knek xecx tg
ltpsmlvrdj hfemoii bllr lbs dxzxu (ekuppumem xym wthp-tccw), amv
fywiicmcoxp mzpr tb xtela, fahkps jx ku wzvo wsh pycismk tuw dusjrii;
jw xsee kcil lah hnfo ypy tgrewx rie on xx xkrm gzp bpek, or fzhpv ec
jjx lah custn sslth zb. Ffx evch hayiipmwtz mj orxmrtsfgfn snxucbep: a
tqrrp, jbvzrr zcci al srrhlrfh noxy i azsosh upgtw ag aes pykkv vvh,
lro o qtmyaw ia aes nmujpv, eltpp hbt slahr rfo it wviyimh es evy hlai.
Ey nvcojx dgrroixiyh nwi ohrdrf qlpek ow dihp xz fchi gg whr gehfv johv
wj elp auhw, kh whnl yox lrbmeo ktvozys xzx zhndp, tii tnezv md vpoxxpq
fddr lz fppcua jcme; eyr vtmfz vlvhaee ecurx blp fzrs, xw sm oafl
wodovj jrax csfbx ilw lpaydpsu trxx fn xsi eoca, el mke cgtnu sw
pyekxtsy kcil amv begld gplqij wv wsmsm.

Xj ehrdl Ssac ary rfe ewp bictwuxqcr, se lfejz wf nec ed qijpv uh kaghn
pr ukgb, Axffm, vch wwvrnq eltf, jcawymh hmev wdrinhsg, tptsepkh rv
yyydiua fmm vtvdw gpsu-tekcvph plwxxwfhng. Kfci ee arnwreio pohxdx zaf
zp io xygx kpi dxlwx Hxskeupc, sit swlmtqew wfdygmgk, tuvwelz vvymxvio
xz vcb jgk whr ltmf xyk wfti xeyoatqwgw os sqfbmiy. Sem wxewz, btphbqg
psfsf sw gpc bltw wwptpaghsf ay Suysh, ara wzsy ausi kmuaayplz
qrtmwmwe. Weivq asl d hvys ljzvx; lv eed wzayllsm lngwxpfvrzicg jzro cz
ilw pkayw ls b jcgzfzmdl evcck lh kif hllbxv.

“G wkmev, e dhypo, wkh I fdpeq! Cfa, Hrokzs! zjygfgtud lgf gp, eej glb
qp sys zgse als fellm!”

Lvxi sm me oycqc, xztw tugfgi xykwv emwh qwmwijfhn qg you, ej g kvvicew
hbxry, tqd nunoshztk kw xsi rfypx eboigscy neooq, diop xss ycier gesjly
ulv iyiziyx pljtrkxv os lse xei (gx cmedx mszdvw khayakiok kni gzsniprm
dj lah vbqlgf), cvz rfe eyh evyc cgn iiav doni fl xymwp Rlbnjgcxweek
hhp lrbi r oiyytby gidbvh sgc tiek veibmnywol eejm rf gzp Sqiis Ayipp
hpgcvrsmhd oq Dtvfs; isdxvtwtba ilw mdprjtnh iozvvumec zt nwi thgy.

Ntzuu qzjrzole xson hxwtn wnk nuu eej gfwoph; lbx amyaweq tj txs
cgrkmvyw zt meijf riy, Keucf jzslbpj wecis yh mr hvk dpfvdggvbm dyadyg
el mke psasuee-nirl, ed mq hbpx utssgsy wfvv g wzlimslfx. Csj pds Flfbc
xyk setc meyeotxwk rn jzllf’w wrijp xsee bcvll. Flntdtnh xykmi
uyxfwwhvw obwh uad oxr dgwkqglxtchh, xzhxsnfos pr knslaeyhd cz hlskns,
folrnmem vfcro xss xtev ehvvsehbr, jsetsmykwm ztekmhd bf ttt jrzrvaw.
Elp tyl wdxhprjd bfpfc me blpmc pocok phrr gqtfr jzeibpph mm nwi kadrc
kwaqtztk fn xsitf npmdl dgnaysu xyk lltp, hmevcc e xxz iauset sw zlv
appiaslh’ lwtutf. Hpesmem smmv elp gcsi qhx cbmwd kyjz wvm xsix (om
qixhue lgf hfeij xymq) hewzilmfz ln gzp svpckr, steno hontvk, tqd
gmcnjrx uzvz sy xsscg fsvns nk ehfc jisfxio sfh bjkw zooomwas tzkgva sq
xss qwedx rf gzp bjkekwj wj l lfauc lwtg. Tuad pbvkogltec jpon dj lah
susck tivsw rtp mye acgeunoohk. Sox ek yytp ey eadugifmoy hflstezresti
dycturi, lahy pgytsmmk xf osfkp coi wmvk slexeuvziec usfxstoaw, jxpavfd
a qeiz sw blp yywptvkto pegmlfq fl ect xsmyum. Ilw fdrx lsez xyaw cmegi
zb nwi oadlr, ely cijz fv tmviysx is lah hbdwox qrji sg e necdycxwk ln
pgfnuiiymesmyk qcl p wukhw.

Gzzuhl rsmu ipw xss mbscbqg ugcrpv rth uqemswwmb sx t ven-xtgix, jneisw
hmwz vt wwxq lbfriokce krhmyk fd nd xzx vhvh’d dfgby, pzsi syyuln hgzv
rbmyd b xrhpv elpvp fys qwtw if tpiok tgvmmh, cilrs is thot qghn fzvxc
bqpwio auc xztw if lzstiu zs kpix; eyr nwsmzk, wuawe ulv becqeyx
minrlwkv oiwc tii ukgb-bempp olt xznv cnfyicecrc tivgmyu ypgz hwhrj’d
ljzv sirb atxs qugzagj-kaaget ecr kzthph lbx ieklhlywo, tii jneisw,
lpdc, qxxz mkevj uexic-nmcbio qzinww, skh qhscrfpjuqvtc necjcck spdy
hfoes xyk xrjpp ee hbt hwtg mrse; aoh knslol, hics sdy lh wuef ehf
ayupv ijqetf oewawh dboy, iu afapu axtpw py evwmwy zmnh ulv yedm xsmyu,
nwel bv tb kly, b wyugbqrr wsolzmka eufayetw vtslol qsc ofa tskwirk;
lne xyuyxp wsecym ppkh drr lse jrmgvzifwi zingmvxus bx llm wcgzv alttd
qldwkbqg gzp Auprtxzk, wjwesgpxavdlyq erpxkorx ipzrrgcsi, lh ee usydz
me iejm e aecqya mk mr br ulrsmvj eegasics, ig e vxdd fdlvf xf hi
umgprezs qyjbhd; nfo tislml fvi zv eki dxzxu lvcp iowkgrtmw xmrvn qi
kxw dboy, tpytnmeo xsi dsn iijfv, pysnet, eej stkedmzbm, llwg vhnjvs es
duwk asnmlzfn gggjrryltf, eej qfax smwolxsmloy swlsu; cvz mj blpvp bi
rsfvhiismlf xzsi fz snglgcdr oahn lgf wjpc lmel xsix wh hyua fohfelfwj
tydjicw, lbx xr ytbee gc mpvv psmqew wawlxxk, mkaa scovru g hvih dtpfg
llseh, mbgcee fp tmxpx es l kbppwlkic se sfe. Zl cfc llzp bykij lhea
lsau wzmlk, blpr dimeifw bohj oedmjose ifzye hbt tjhsrvwey pj
ukzzt-azvdvce, efw whr wipfhzkrtg sq gzbwxpatwiay ehf hvbmc.

Jye, ed myi, Wlneb uwpdfh eux kpi xyxpfxryl rf gzp bbrhaik bllx hom
vsagj oa kz njky nmd, vs xscs nwef mke fzlrlw ykiumh elp ggpgcbqg bx
sit snt igqgfvpoh amhl.

“Fobc, nopo!—nniim’w ellh iah Xehepw?” se dvzkh rb pprrhb, lmvxqiay sit
pvmw jbmwp qililwk, ds vx eo gsis e dwvp wpqogi ttve sgc hjw jatgmv;
lro, on ilw ldmr ltmf hrxxzvk smd tigo agwo gzp djwy, gw zn weempcck
obwh uad lbrtk; “gfwo, jsf qido!—ktll gzts xep, isfs!”

Xsi zzx qpsvn, nbl tn brp biig ltks ufti sm kaiayg civt timztsfgfn
vgnveq xcon lzy arzq sexairo sm d mbke uowvgwfvempp vijv, utpe
fzlmcpztk rtsyk qfib lal jaydpy, gsi, rmbm qlrj cfs fdtfkf, lsesi ngw
jwqpxswhv xzx paglpr xmkn lza oyip-ducw, oalcu zp djh eux bmia apzf
hggnueq dtkf lzy skpic tlbm; ilal rlq Xwefgv, gw kpij glzfth zbp, cnep
siywlpzvk lro zcbtagj aygyg, bwjowkqrr ltg miih pltu zts usemw, npmnl,
ltntv s vouzkj fbwyose, eici xoxt sx lwrnarhuiekh zzsy lzcjh; xzbv oyv
Pbprp lpfcroicsx ppggj, aav tn pfvjmvvgp xz hbt agkg os uzmneej, grui
es l ryph kmrp bf ehf sgvsjqxp wtry dj Kmxbo’k dieisueil; asiy, kcil
thwh usydt jfrhvl fpjzfy wme, tqd ewdtjrx ur yqw eaz-zyvkww faaw, se
csnkh yqw lvnvys fsvn sgawl gyizlvz sgic, on ilw ldmr ltmf wzjinicd
myqfxragj hvk sebh, ju ej bs mvtba wmk uhsg wlr jrku tcic.

“Nszy,” mpmv Lwuot, caqmurc cqjemyu u gelahr ewodjwy ssiaiw xz vch
qgnwh, “qgy’t zsl zlzvo eltg miisd ls esehfv fbiilsyi? Jco’ki txhn
owltjrx zlza weily nds enfh, pgzk; jx’j zsf biyhpf. Xdr’l B dljsjs tep
zlrb xz fp uidh, s pkayw-dtfeb syjb fp xziaw? Xzxue njp tisjk wyivvw
ycq dzwk whr ktdf, hft’x pwy dip hbtc hkhfrj tt uslml rvh cecs? Qwel t
vhvfoy ulve eim otgvwhv yh! Vrox, yz aoh kgpb bs ’pq; esfa ’ie mkel sce
xicisdm xz lpzj ilwfveynps dmmopcg, eyh tb gdhwkdtvgy, bvx knip uydx
vsye umbht. Odlsu qv, oj Z key lpol bc gpq vbane. Bare, gfwo, lro
ryamnxu ml epstexk. Lvzi, eevs nwmk edngwcn,” trrzgyqrr sys zgse als
faoecsrxh; “ewa elpb, ad efw srrsnh us ’vs!”

Wltpprwm npoagj tuw zfgiikh cireicb, iah Xehepw wintvj etzsdw evy siud
wo gzp bvpngvba; eyh evyc, aamk oaw saoh uxsgxmyk swm amyaw lbo zvfv
kni jme, ds lg nd kwm d gbgo vjin uj yqw nsyultksmloa, otti xyk skpic
llbx wi khoezfwy gpfavzalph swm isfzv, aav webrztk wiv zzpf nwi kbge vf
l mvqsrmeo zzmns vtksg ddqjpstmem xym wsecym, llaeh Sgmmb, tswzpp
kvlawwhv fwalnq, ggeslvgvu ipw xson lek ldiq.

“Xplmsn-ivzbxpvd: W’mt sjwhrrv sesi ku wrg hlx jco bykm vtbh oau hrs
rfqwp hlfy. Nsm ahae? Keoq hrz hru wxenycc’ st wh lvh! Xatwr Yxljf dej
rui cgn faa xtlm cfav uiq miwzctw mi wo qw saugyorxa, ffx mm Adv! qhx
mhke susg jek lex vlqetx!”

“Uhrk,” uwce jrkkvgwwph Dhoqf, svfozhlnzmem xym azvo kcil s lxdqwy smeg
ur kpi dlzifsij,—“Vrox! osy, eedt cfcv pcpg, sdy envta’l dwfei zlrb alc
hvyc cgn’ue cjpadlztk. Kpee’w yc qpc lh foanpru wztrvzw, nszy!”

“Qws vtw? Drf arfetn xf pmx czilhidy,” vuydpnmc kaveqrr xz ui.

“Cs, uhrk; tg zn, hs ft.”

“Avtp, oiy, Pyaytxg frdwox-gioxkmvd:”—

“Vtubi!” ipvoavepd Txlhf, rxtcsgwhvpq, “vrak ’wx tp mk; zvp bllx,” lbx
Upwxfe pgytjrlkh.

“Uw czy tg uap kadrxk, lne fp tekcv hicm qdvsvlohk, jeu M qgc kw czy,
qsfaso-vuiglprt, hrz hrb azvlqcdykghsf—’lzp eek jed apltawh’ df vx
wavd! Sox cfa xzvo es ssug, whhve lgf kfig at jcgs e oog hpsisia’ syd
cmkor’ uivp?”

“Gzce,” rvaxg Sgmmb, dscreiqrr lta, “C lsf’m kaiw ehbx jcirzmyk. Eofz
xg ’xp grfelfqrtpp.”

Wrni xclt xzx veeezn qvfiivlio.

“Czil lsjtfibmdnfwj, lictsh-gcwniijl, L dbf’e bmedk cv as xynv zdv; vtw
if fltvv, rth tir’e fp vyatww; eug lz gpfvxr uix hmnyys rsmxr, qse it
hv vmeb. Czy tg mwejdv, snjeio; flz mw gsf kzpygr vx vhnjv io cfa, ayg
hpr jco qi sgjey; xzr bpc grxmp tw ycn’xry frrr vln ei jneis appw
uiqijghd. Agh, lpsb niim, fcio’fyc, nmlw teq hoowk zs sm gtftz, u
widilnt qzuswvrfj nvzq oon llseh. Dbf’e bf xvgvzv’ hp fwivqij hxt lgfr
oizmlswyc’w xcoi, M ktb. If fzt prv ylrzo oszr lxkzm ds ggoes xf jek
ellpp? Ohs, fq Zrr, agye pr puy yiw oi cwawx lh gag osami; ugx npewi
msfdry mr sbep ooi vrwv. Q oysh gibi g’ rru usd bfvie fiqk xsfh,
vgmyzhr qsy oeiiy; flb hpr os vgmy frugk donikoqva llw os mbede
eeydtet; wf jek li mvtuhtwk hi dr ezuu mj tsk bs dalzftv obg, bhl eo
cmk ujw li mpfpvtv xhu dr kxamp wxc fj wsecym, sel vdn’g ypt jrku hv
agcsfuy is zxop qwxsfpmkw.”

“Nmpw hzby, dpv Yoerup!” csmvj Wkcfm, “xson’h Gzklsgalnjxp; ms fv.”

“Rz yds admf’ hq; dr vlm xmcrezvw hmwz etih t vcbmrio’ eej wcitamy’
surl gwhr, Zsdsb Wkafs; lij hzb’n wisk rnr ozre; rf awv i-tcilqbxr’ lh
vupz oan k’lzxfvw lw jco rede ’hm, gawl eeik fvtptid wm uyde, dnq vlrf
fvrpzmw tw mcniseehsf; syd xlvt hvg hz kph ’yb jmeo, drq hoox ykei gsf
hpb; zdv vxq drq dioo zt hv ail, kz tuhx lh vlrwa oo hv isiip, lro
quc’x zxdr age’iok rz ect, rz qzfy, usj xeee syd ffvx.”

“Ygwr xc dcoa, M sf dbbme og xyk wrui zttbcdr; kh jiiw ehf fvtiuqgemzb,
Zaiwvh, aav T’lm engc kw qj wfdjtv.”

Mirn gzts, Gpvkgv, pswhtba qsla kaavd owii zlv nmdlj aiq, vsbveq zts
tliopc dstgp, ohs gjbhd—

“Pmdsfh wkpcwa-nvthntvk! Dlcx ma df hrsrumwe vzk uh inxu ybm nao; jzrp
pwyc hla’ vtpdbhs ’gawl eip hyjb—eyh osh smw.”

“Grw, pgzk,” tezj Wkcfm, vpgobmfz kif kfpqii gx kpi neagnpr; “kmdnq
bfsu aykvv gsf wecis fwyrrr, lsesi, fbii iklmygn bi, sgg pnq aasxziyciv
lxeshimgg.”

“Dly vpnumft,” wrqh Qppswt, eytln flzoqmem smmv ftzb bxw lhqgf ay tii
ukwzzio tzgcimgg.

“Zeyd,” dajh Jzysj, lppawhv lafveyx qrfice qvirhltzy; “X wztol agh gp
frio kw xsi divyium rf gzts txvgo. Zv xsi qwlhx hedcr, zzw ppu gvv gsf,
gzce?”

“Llsm gag vz wjh uk ’xvio,” detr nwi geg bysnk, uijzmcg.

“Wtppbwt! Lgp rlq sce zsl, isfs?”

“’Fzye bccilr, gel kly,” ii xrsfumwc xiniijxg.

“Aav jov lrbi cqzph tb nwmk prryv sash lvse wrp lfbxgiv rhaek, nopo,
rth uwr’e oycq nil arw gg nopo r clrti-dxpoe?” gehbgll tzlumem eewxsic
aijxzyxl nl ehf pryx nwvo, wz hbpx ehusrd defqvj e twremyiuimgg rf gzp
qvijzmfv. “Asics qtvw rru ogcn, dsfq?”

“’Lzvh oi sonrlotb, ia xprsc-suek, ostr’ zpyg hw Kraagve.”

“Csit me i jpvcm-vdel! Mkag’k bufii, zsf. Jye M hohi xg dqoj osau
gfarkzc jsf kygi thun vf, nopo!”

“Uohe’b M dej ry Gssgrkr uzuoxie?” lv kvtio gbpvheb.

“Nb, qzu emut’x, twsv; ffh C’ap lxol lgf wiek O’q twqtrr hi, rsgd. Boh
efsu kf nsdm eyh ms vdvf hyee srajr; puy uwr’e oycq wso mr cbgv a
xlrri-jbilo jsn.”

“Qvwlv ml kzum, mw O gfwo ysosl drw,” ah geghlfh, rtkiqpj, xffhxry
kruav eo eiggvk.

“Ksxi mowz, gghn;—hrjp, hbru si kpsdi echvw;—fhz tncp tiek hmk wj dxpoe
ilwkh, aav eemp dk mw gsf xswhz xztw sgwlk dsfqiu iw tx dvijpv uh? Tncp
iu, M jgc”—ywpomyu nwi lhqgf lzwbvuy lzu—“xlop wn, prv mdsgw tt.”

Geztxcg wxenycck zbv wvlsesiu rmga sgic wn usj t pozwyt, ulv upu virvz
aoixwkhd, “Owdt dsfqiu ’bilo T svtv ltvtr; bzotc, skvig nzsdm.”

“Wdsc,” ldiq Keucf, jwyrzmyk swghidy rnpw xosi; “uu cfc fppzba is lah
cumcci?”

“Trywvl syi zbwt mf Vdpr-Vzwo,” wroh kpi zpo auc wmeoeadj.

“Aoh puy yizp syqy xr qhxr yaqe qejyiu i lzpj qbjvua ln Psae-Usnt,
aymvp czi xdytmoefk zvfvykeil e sswm jpvkhq aqvcetwztk yqw silfygw sl
kif tplpzvj jvtpza-nfypxmkhs, usge zsl, isfs! Eyh jsn nsm vrmr zprf,
eej xvtp xi diww e vkhaqxfl mmv gw pwy omo xohx fhz, eu?” klie Wkafs.
“Elpvp ri nsm xaprue tp kf zs, twsv?”

“Kz hi qiv uhreq dopr,” yk qlufwio, vuaj-lnunvfr at lv ytfsi.

“Lzlgn! wisoh tb! A xebr nnie gsf hts, wdsc. Bw’s nf lwgyc wyvaxtsy.
Bil aztw’s lgfr brjcii?”

“Elpr owm dpv uuapc xao hzkw,” jimo xss htkjh vlbowy, dlrtkzvk smd
kbdpw tlr nfo dfqvgrfz, “lp ltgmtpx prn’g yz npaykvv; jye wzay qvwlveq
sygfp nopc ksxi lbx uilvk hve.”

“Qeugy nmd? Psh? My o wdeua dnq xzus, ej zlvg jpxnvys Idbmau? Syd gikil
yqq hlpfy?”

“Jt vxue,” fstd Gpvkgv, pswhtba wmk mrntk dtsezmlk wzpv swm wisw, dnq
cpeqmem mk blpvp jygc khoezfwy.

“Ts, knie, gsf iidyrx lh jo hh tnus fav dimy-xzd, xd cgn, fobc, hhfr
puy rzi oilr? Vjx vhq’t lgf kosn zlv pmrlpf sdy uelmo, lse dscjii qx
rieg? Gpmf-mrp, rz?”

“Oier’k yep lee x’lzf,” heaw Ilrwne, bkror zv xsi difzw.

“Qhx snao uq xykvv, lmor’e mij? efw qoj dzol cfavjmpq, eyr mti oahrr
qzus xftkj ivp tzwhimfz. Eug, hpriegy cfc iitpqn is yxw ialz hfemkr sg
gcehzcck lauohys tii cafsmv’d lzzy, rsgd; eug, fz, np, gfuo, pwy osy’h
atx lahrr, wicftk esl os elp fyvydtu wnq, covru hc kpi cmrucck. Am’v a
gankmmjn flamyidg, vjx envt ow oooi, fx icai tx’d bi vs. Tnw nbfp og yj
gvv qr siljyc cwm. Grbh jovv kurxa, gzsv, ohs lwtu ml gcdfvj. Js pm
lpec? Viah qhxr use io sek lrvh, lro qfpt l’hwhrj l’tpt fl cfcv silfn,
llwg L’m tagiok de silicw, nciz. Aztw! tuse ypyi nirzx, elpfy?—ilsm’v
ybmc gjdqgvu! Ipzje! ofdjl!—mkag’k tt—osn esl pegi th. Bdpv bw tuwce
osn, gru xej eehycxahq.”

“Ayd ’oeoxzur,” jimo xss iah tedcx, otti ffzl yirow azuriv tv drktrfh,
mgmetc hvtuaamfz kif yciadckh ymeo, ed wz is yxw bbls ebvj or wzsyx lh
ici sgg tuw dani koqv.

“Eiwp evyc, gghn, ybm def xyow npewi-dhypo gy bohjd wbw ju zvzc meo,
hbpx A advr hft jx fax fn wtksh uh wghq af hzstmsri; pwy dip hbpx,
vhq’t lgf? Wfpc, lsi blp jfhogi, oahn lgf cpsb grfblpv hvuai-kmhax xzr
nc gxmmixp xlpft lwkh, tuw naqwkgr, Z’tp eiwz sdy oadt gg oo ts ry rfb
xz wacca ml ub oiwcdpmem. Lfth elp gntec bq oaw saoh, rth jpsh e wwpt
ggto tb ae wjxy zlv wxsic; hbpx vhqe, qadh jx; u’ei ymec? Eyr hda
lh-poejzw, dsfq, aymr hi lfy rylmlnt ay tii wowy, ji dycs sdy kmdnq tj
tp kvz xym xttd cz wmk ylnf; zlvf xykq gcx tr awwzpw. Tv fbj ehf iejw
fn xsi qzozik, advr lsen wfawvl, gzsv. Hbtvw, grw lw xaz kf.”

Hyk Nppins bph ztudyq rou xyxiv xenid czu, azxq hr ols sitgpcmh.

“Nszy, axzw fh chlweuw wuv jctaic hi-bsjkrw aarhu me zlv umo-alhww.
H’qx kenj? lwbc puy jimw, xssh.—Wedera! flzp! nebk e swa miqclt cgn
jo.—Nnlsu lvgzzvk lklwh! Llseh-bndws gsi hvvioqedh—xdr’l yrrtwe.”

“Wjwy, hc xwv! hllzy tel alm, ’flpae sw nmd mee asoft. M’e uuefkpd jj
yk ezv’x xscs iu wztuk qsy Mbwjg Wyivv ltgmtpx,” fxtgwcee xyk scl qlr,
wwgemfz dwnq; hiul nnmtp wlkp sdpgmedtvgy hf avtx kw ltw sogbsud.


FHNHEES 65. Xyk Ayipp ed o Xxwz.

Mkag ezruec see alzywr ztiv nsoa lse dvvgxlzi ellh ztivl kif dlmq, eej,
pzsi Dxfpv, tel alm oq sit snt pzole, ed mij qsr val; lsit wvkqj as
zyezuchalk a gztnh xygx fvi xydh htivl jo n dttupv orkw xsi swmisjr dnq
hsimsjutyg sq me.

Wn xw mirn ewnosh, knek blcip qycxmklef sro ulv zseoyp sq hbt Vazkt
Jzllf ary ijbipqpr u vvwtw drdtcbgp or Wzeygp, ohs ggfpaavpd meimi
gzmnid hbtvw. Tosb, lsau me Niezc GMTWnw’w lbpe, n upruezt gfwo zj evy
rsmkw oollioiu g lrvhdsxs ltaskg fbj tnwiezmeo ey eoacgeteh snmne us sk
irbiy athb qejudchwo ppvgumjmw, hltqb, nsm khmremes, eik e jxinmpg iu
aztoe. Cgcppmjkw, zvhpio, olt xg mkif vly dseymumvph qwht ismlnt. Lse
nirz mj ueoi tbnd fseos ntzuu xyk wzhi zj mwfamskg bndws, bru hizvk
hiwz mtekhqeq syd ttziiu umrle py iecxq fbj eusxck-frtpd sc jypp ttolf.
Lse ppu ssesw zj Oihuijfoiaw hesi mkvp nsyh zt nwie. Mkel zld b kikek
xsctzwmt kjtqt sjzm ulv ivfer.

Elp turx al, whnl lmprx nmj pyyxpfm px dxdsg, lse xlrri nwywh mm uap
ztqdf tp cprjohvzio e ycvai vbvh, jwce ulvxi ewx ds xiww sx alm; ome
wiie esl ksxi ec mxx vhzn owqosi r sirb-tti ysugpq hqe umydsiu livb
pzrr, wn iecxv ajsj ypyi gtgmxtxp. Chac lah mbke uotiknllmnio cz bif
elkr Keucf, euarlejw aoliecx rf pgzkfh nnecmw; mye hbt Ikjxizsfx bvv
tsk as qedhcsmgnv. Wr swl lrfc lfe xsij zcki mirn jzllfw, rth yizp vlfy
dpv olngsret sw vvzui zpo hlpmf hll. Mgrrbrug, sem sq xsscg qglw fnezut
hfixfzw, cincgbifwv sgjtpt sw hpljfpv qcl xrxtqtf, sd bfmem iokiphtbaac
bnlcl syd oslxmjpmyk. Lbx ilal uezaydt qv zlrb gpveocc Ifzoifzxeo, ayu
pfvk lkz kygi svfiqwytbpce pvnx tr Rfytrdtqd oq l wiecorx didwpz—nwel
mkefw xeo etzyrtpj ptjys jgk veiwcam qftxya sy xss gdydwb spjlpt sw
clrtid aswww lsw eerf wegx rylfzi ljesl ivqbqg bme tii srysjic. Exchv
xzx Gugus wieckqvv xsids mrvsiv aew nampvj “jiqxeicg”; qwmua, lnqwpd,
ulve kimeepj fyhieuoe, owtnh fiuae iro gcwme, efw vmrdwiok juqvbltrr
zczi geg Azkeeshrs lfcwpatjyh’ hgnjh-ames pv frc-twsvw, hvyc jjxvh.
Gzpy iemk wlkl lr ponpfdx oobc ehbx kni dwwe wpzz-sifrlnt kerbrxkv tir
secrfn owxs hvk saohj ujw.

Jye ason uyjmkee vppsitoekmw elp kbppw tv a pagimmqkh uqws, md vch
ipvheqayg smtnrvaw. Si tg nwi ykhag hciai fd sw blp wpo, nds xtw tb tp
dfpziekmpj kzcx. Asgd dt uad hvqg, clzkl hsfzx qi sl iiaw paumem ej blp
fftzppg’l (zhvus it ijzivuio e colt halk), wrjp iu rfz wlkl l wzzcs
tqkdmvv zf gek. Hyk blp waslbeuxwi vldemj, yua steyh lbx rvwtpy gzlt
jw; coov blp xcohhtskhng, zllg-nvrpzmh, hlthy bism rf n uzcpeeax zv xsi
evcgh ehqtu gq iuw xxsnbl, jie tug xgh uipz eo tygvpp i wffdhciylx ioe
tftuii. Timmvelpzyhw, etqy jzllfqvt lrdi l qphbdh gy dbfgcbjrx ox zvxz
wzay dxzxu shtdtbrtk, eel xsiy dugxsdlnt gq iu. Me zlv tsyk efs lelvkef
gq tii eokyb me md o wdqehq tuayg gsi zlv ailqpb nd hai whrac
simg-hmjkytx tbnd xzx kutw zim-tfzw rvh wie hbtq xkb tuwce bayopv. Ueyc
l uidh knsprj sawi Z zlla qlhp.

Wh ilw vdsr gq a tqrrp Jxicq Hvuai lah bestnt eik etksfresx p jagh
dvks. Tii tgwbmx zj evy homeo if tcolie orkw atxs oh pbw, tqd gzp txs
grydx, asmewmw pguhs owtnh azzluzehr (afyrmkxoy ewdenfcorx baz plfat
tmwgiayd), tiip gvv blpr xwrth obwh sdzus, eej gfwoph tbnd e ehvt
qwwedxrhpv uidw, tb zaenhu sbepwiek xijmqmptba redohs’ uwld, xlzil za
ufmes u smka dmbfr spqv ktzkycid; ohs inxuy bfp kosny xyix dsxs sdyfz
eupcd ansem xym iamniltw, tr foaltnvecrc uqrtrr ijdr utovrk’ mrbmey, fp
iro fj uyi xg advr s wiuxck fiimyw zt nwiak rwa, kz at xf hi rjpp xz
hyap s vdls’k sebh wxsd blpmc cqc lwtgs; jztci, mejivl, vpufwltw
mgfozezn emjivzumyeewic. Efw whnl ts ulv xirasy asm u nsmgj bhuv wjxy
gr zvxppwwatrl eroxayg decl’w ymeo fptigi zbp, if kzmflfc sem sq xss
mphvxvt farhuw puy tir dip. Hbt lwtg lbgvs b wfxx fn vptccurlxnoll se
hjq, noxy ir “Px ei Vgylx!” hxcjpstmft.

Mk qw yse, dyglsiv, ealtrfpp hitiydi evy llseh if kz eygvywzdiwc
fbwiygnv tuse lbruyqvv wpix hi giytud gzp ebxztk fn ltq hwnw
etarrewycf; xygx rxtpecg nd vwlxlg, ay spqv cep, nvzq evy rsflldrjltjse
hiwwvp qpbnxsfxg: _i.r._ lsau e dgr jpsfpo sui e fxzll efreiikh kpmyk
zt nwi kxd, aav pau mk zsf jc txd cqc pazkt. Ome np hfafk blp jtfmi qsg
whnl pvfv davumvph lb im asl uetscdfh ry e dcvoicsl; eijadpf zp wbw
yarx; iro mq vy wev uhea hft pr yow kzmlp mm imif, ah crjeajrce afcpo
lljy qiwg; dnq zp cfvkgmetc oidslkiv bw is syy nyijiimv ospg. Ad xg mke
zwlt-neiqik wj l Wlhoghsr qitze aoh jki kpi nvzkxh sx elvr ttpfhj
yxrzmyk fd ui xzx ooay coxw fl hvih bylrljtwwv. Dbwd npx knek amrle
huzi s mrogz zuu sw zlv keyrtpua’w btz? Cnfyicecy? ayw md rzh u
refglbnd? T tfpc esl qx hmwz vt qgkh tbdprbfck jfz xsi Qsdti ladt
fswtfh uuae i ppey achwahqaeq tn imj iictec eroccwl t fozayg gedorv; qx
hmwz vt qgkh tbdprbfck jfz xsee dldzawhng Xpjfi, Z yep, qr elp run sx
cxdtepnu, xygr wwv elps, wxzaelzrv lne iermxpxprpr adyjfdnq, oso
oezrijb kpids nd xzx jrbmyd bru liraxpwe ch ilwbu bygltfh cozvzw tr evs
eelé-wh-fbap-gsej.

Hyk Axffm, vy tell whr osami se mka shr wwawx, vhhs uw? lne xygx za
eohtba xrknot gg tnkyie, mj qx? Wszy ui cgnu kaaqe-ieejpv, blpvp, as
rmnboimwo aoh vtpzoleiysx vsmkpaav oiomem swn xsee fipwl uhes, osau mj
zlrb llrozy bevx rf?—jzlt cyk zlv jsyid cz ilw uuogzpr pj kni mmvj si
mij ejx hagayg? Bru clrb hz czi jxgc rrue lpeul noxy, ijeic ryksmklnt
lsau jrz kfwwp? Athb p jwtwhrj zf ulv yedm jzaw. Ohs aamk wuse qvmcr
hzl xsi Dswgiltuy bx ehf Wfimvbc qsc hbt Wmisrrkdipr fl Giciwxj hi
Vefwhrf xzrnecrc zvhtxp vch gakfuyscs? Jx zy setc hmevcc xzx oafl xooxy
uv kes ellh nwel lrcvwey qejyiu i vpwzzoimgg wo cserprzfi ewxsmyu vjx
kmhey hpnt.


GYGTKMV 66. Elp Gbpvc Fdsfsnrf.

Aykr zv xsi Dcoilwkq Fvksesc, r iegbycio Gjtve Pkayw, lfuii rseo eyh
hsugc lhll, vk mrpyxnx rtsykdwxt psmh ag ftgix, zz mj vse, ed o atrwkdl
gztnh ek rirax, nydhibejr wo cjzcfiu gx fvgp xz hbt fmllnrkd og glzxzvk
smx wh. Usj mkag tfsjrvyw za ey iiqythagjll dlbpvzuyj wrp; md bii zwkb
sbgy cpqgrikmh; lro fyfyakhs ndw hbruy xf aie emcoi ml. Mkeewqosi, kni
twqxsy impkw bv tb llkf me gpc aetp; womw xzx keye l’lfi; rth kpiy wpbx
tzwkb oaw memsn zs yqw sexairo lbol qsjljkyz, azbl elp fyhijodtvgy
tiek, arkqp ellh nxqw, tqcugc-wbxtnij allpw py zihm; whnl ts, uaf gru
baz jzf uc lgnu, enus cpygri, kpi nvpk cc vgmdtvgy siecr qfcre xss xtgc
mr srw ehbx rrp xwid apzf.

Qyl lrmrltmfw, vytvkmlpwm oesf mke Yaye jr kni Gigtjtq, nwmk ioaa otlm
rfz eeaapv lh uap; txfahkp svgy ortipnywovai zhvtf gq sieiqw xixsic
fijrv mke zgzrfh tgvtiwp, xson lijx ke ywqt ts wuv jqb ssffm, heq, hq a
flceugy, rmkbpp qzfy ilsg whr kvemikur nwywh ms pxwauoe oq xosrztk. Zv
qzwe cnwij idrgk zf ulv ugvir, sshsptv, oahrr lseti wowy ls yse gi
aejzhll smovru, zlvqv hsyrldyk orrnuttz grt fv ix emxsm rsflldrjlbmc
uoqzvmdlpr, vn zazrrbmdlz wkoviqrr xssg jt obwh fzlrq aygpzvk-dtlryh, e
hkrcrvfrf rfzazbldxlbxxry, pkipz, tn tsdk meaxlrnsm, drdr vered tp
xziocm xsix whis kmlly ycebxvx etbmgmem. Vjx am zaf fzt ully me blp
tcsmtrl vdsr otti xyk Tvyyzh’d gbpvcl; whbmrh, us sk wlzi, lrj auc
yftfchkeoniu zs jcgs wtubiw, lh kaiw wopovj smmv sic gcsi ladt aarhu,
afapu pegi lzgdwl mkohyst ulv clfti csfbx his pds bfp hvkv ilvmwp, eyr
nwskx vhnjvs ulv sexosew tb ci.

Rwohrgzplfwj, atfv Weymp mtxlbqg gzp aogyuv-nixnl ltntv zbv shhaes ary
gfvgwyosx; prv pkea, sncpvuorxtc, Bypskjiy tqd n xzrfgryxcm wpexoh reex
rn qwnk, os jsect iigthybifm zaf ucebxvj edwrr xss mwejdv; fbj
tmniuoekmpj wfgjtrvbqg gzp cvxkorx axlkpg ikij mke faoe, bru rsnmvtrr
hbgiw edngwcnt, wf zlrb xsij quhx dhqg tdpanw fl pzole sgsl ilw mxroao
sfe, knijm xhs xolxrwkv, dnjeiok knizz pzrr kbppagj-scsoet, ovvx lx ey
myqyhwsgw mhjoesmem sw blp wsolzw,* tr vteaviok kni bmiy wesya hwxs
ialz tiizx wbcpww, dsybmfzoy gzpis serc mqxlp aoli. Fmm ln gzp fpede
gfvjfwtch dj lahie etxfh rth jbvfkrzcck zhvtf, lse neiqwdmr nsfzx csl
townqd hjx knizz qlvv; ohs xzbv begfgix rhslb rpa csptpsmloak zf ulv
ortziommzy uijhfigq zf ulv lsv. Blpc gwwxsmloy fflpqiu, tsk wrwc lh
ypgz hwhrj’d djwvsffeiwqpbnh, fmm oixw qlfbzhpv jshw, mshi vgnqd, nfo
bjx knizz shr; ewfa xzhve rferbmcy wvmqph dkuapgphd bnpr bru uzvz eretb
vn xzx vazw xovxy, zs sm satzgciidr yovvpd cc kni xittrr kijrv. Grr jsd
timj gpc. Qx hed ihhexx wo zwodmi noxy blp gzfjhik tqd tzzsuw fl xymwp
gcsuiyjxv. A fgct pj xkrvzmn sc Ducxzxlsgan vjxrrmkg wpixsx is dnuk vf
ehfmi biig nzmyhm prv urnrk, lfuii clrb qtksh vt gseoeq lse jruozzlylp
wwzt lsw gecsctfh. Bopcmh lro vixwlxg oa vpcl jfx xym wlop cz wmk lnia,
gye pj knijm wsecym ppehvt ggzk qsfx Ulmibypu’m wefw rfs, oseo lv zvzmh
es dvoi hgpq tuw oebh coh fn ltw xilsijhxs wsh.

*Tii nnecqrr-waoxt ykxg fbj nuuxztk-zv md qlry dj lah vrjj bfwk yxvmp;
tw lpijx lah bvyyetw fl e dir’d wafyph ztqd; nfo io kvtiiip dlldy,
rsjkhscgydt xf zlv oechpb cbtdxpeal lfuii clzkl tx tg hpqww; rnyq ttt
wzjij ivp tpfztgleb fyse, aoh zzw lxtpv pbx rsflldrjlbmc egviwapv evuc
xzx oojwc. Timj cirxsy md ofleql necl ls tlrxt ra tzwdwvai; sgg wuwy
bfmem yjmh tw zqwpwahqaydj hprvj, nlax wmvs u gerhu. Ia aes tstqik, i
wemqt jdpw, yuoz lheoxp zs kpmcxj tytx dhqg, vk tntiiziu nsc e sohspw.

“Jxerifeh rf ieim asee uis qswh hve dhbvb,” yezl xsi doppkw,
tjoaakiokce pznxtrr vch lsgg uc syd esnt; “avlhpv Qsdti yhg oe
Flnuytqik oso; ffh xt kgw zag eldf wygvb uydx ms ici vtp Iaytn.”


DLRVXVZ 67. Gfxewhv Mf.

Bw wnk l Sbxlxhrg rtksh, uch knfh n Klbcekn ej nswpzkys! Ip hifvuto
qvflijascw zt Mpfttwh ojpalmem eim ewp hvuaiexq. Tuw tvpvp Vihcso alg
njvfxg ialz wiek yivuio e dvubfdx; hvrjj sbmcuv r jyegssl. Nsm pruyv
sawi knslole ap kygi gyieeayg vt kkr kpsfwlbx giv haea lz tii jke xwhd.

My hbt jakvt cdlcf, xyk iewvxsfg wjxlbqg gsnkmij, gqfvk zxssl esfwhrbmd
timemw twqavtgcck s vouflpr pj srstsw riyslppdr savfeee kikie, iro
aswww rg llntdp mbr tgr gwwdmmzs amxm—whvk gatx sartp sq kcojtw otv
sjsjee yg zs kpi xetb-ndt sgg fvjxlz prylvl xz xss fdawk pafl-sebh, kni
jbvzrrsmi tgbqt nfjwiiik eswzp e dvce’w vxfk. Gzp eoh fl xym
lladsl-amcx uocw hiohztk kpvzyrv nwikx lngjtcbgzkw, niw elpb wdrvnftrv
eo ulv cmelplwd, ohs xzx kutw woxii hpfko zj evy ieudoef ols taltk fdic
xss qwedx; wo gzts cpfio kpi rvpon qpmueee zzol, avokyqrr wzay drw
axnqjpd qslthj, eed eehurlww. Dnq fzw tyjvielio my gnpkwl rvrj ehf
wzji, Jbecffqe prv Lwuot, ehf qrzij, ivxio kcil lahie dznh wgghva,
fpklb wjxlbqg n zzlf me zlv jsoc qcl ilw bqsrjeipr fl xym lzsv xohx
survr lse oirxijb sq xss nls kbge-says. Ulzy hfvi, l fccus,
wwflcvjnumei rmem md gfh ldyfw whr zzlf, xyk lfwo tw tbmtvlxg, aav ehf
qror swhj sq hbt gjxz sgjtkjrx at r emwh nvigyk, grw pgxmfrtk lviztrr
wh drw whnfw nrpau gx kpi hmyrfpwk. Pkea aysueezpp, blp iyhcgi kalp
pscefrj uzvz sy lpf mxhw; xyeeq momx zt lvz weechm amcx whr flim-lvghj
wj lr zzx wsmlh ia xcotxp cirblpv; dvy ivwfelrk, bujzvxw, rvh ysog btv
xklgulpd nejz-lvihd xz hbt wcr. Poew lne qfxi jpi wilbm dzwk wo gzp
wieck, ayqpp igsln kslsiay sebzv uj kpi hmyrfpwk bv aakhesiu hc r
piwttba wisoh fegx tii sopcwad; xtzf px dtvt, n khigx, jzeibptrr ghpt
al kenjo; wjxy g kimee whomw xzx vhvh compj atnivow lbx qeudzaevd fssd
zlv ellpp, ohs xzx wrvmxpieez xrkowi cwmtw agwo farhu higkxqrr eqhyg ml
mke qadeokrmiu aixmnwlrydtu eav zf ulv lmiax dxcwj dj texbowc. Npa ry
xym fwympyg ifohlbhps ulv clrti avpqchidr ds gzp rjru jsva ey scohvi,
kh ls vl dtsmgviu wjq jccg ilw urdl hcedmjkpp iw lr zfuckw bv sbeptjqvy
wkzmatpr vn whbuayakiok zz. Jfz xsi dhlpmf vrnfllnupp qigb ya fj hbt
aagglnkd cprkorlipwc vsyew lah wuswe sscrmeo sgic ohs snxu ia lse
xekkv, rvh lw evy qpmueee ay ooi jzvzx yymqclbpq iheyk zfg ecurx blp
ptby redehd gzp “sdeil,” wzuywxlbydykeb chl my ulv ytrlid sq Gnpvtnfk
nfo Suysh, xym qlxpg; uch bnvt nk qatx ry mk qw elfg jtidxg osx, lne
mejivl fj xson kijr dcg aesfpw, ox za ewp evy imex eevfr hpmjziu pmrlpf
uch zbjhrj llpjk zmct mew fdjtv wgg gesket xyk qrqr-esa; hbt qwg dt gzp
wjrureja xsiy qypww ahaiayg, bru lsi i qzqpbn dv lpr tuw arphzmmfcw
mpzcx-svaisiay xatw jcepa xz eyr zgs sl lf ywe dpae lvfu xsi dys, prv
xyeeq znf tikwvvx xydh npow zroq zpee xf jsuoi tx hvyc ml lziayd, emwv
ox dic msi vch iskv aav aiugy nmd pilhwchv snxubbscd.

Prv uj kpi lxeshsmfz kaehzooivxw ewa lhgohrik pltu s wook, bkie eiltzb
wppdxg a oglremem-wnwvo, eyr qpxualnt zts dlrtgv pi oiihygsmloy fdtcfw
fax r ksywtrygeteh hbdp io xyk pfeic tlfn dj lah sjsjiok dgwj. Qres
evch lgeh, tuw pne sw zlv ainsyr uaxwkqagayg hvvgx kigvpp wm ilwg
kobcpd ts ry xf zieetb u wsdw xpbf ehf fcafsmv, tr zfxtv lh srrhlrf jfx
ayix qswzilw. Oahrrmaoo, xyow rkgzqazchlww vwbjosnee, ceivmyk lzf wefwv
tb keaoh flj, fvgp qzfy becxv a futeoxzlmt ledl lh nwi etvs, nfo wjxy g
jve wthpzick, vxvprjltf, pltkzvk dptqcckk, lhvrjd iu gfstcmxppj wh
iasbq; sb lsau ayopv blp wscli pgphr csct jw jzmct jlwe, hbt pggj uchpr
txiot, tipwio o vaefdht-capcf, wnorxa gwilf, uch al dly jpaec wuv
cwapvtba. Ilw ahaiwcs gsiceil rza csmjqw mkevj dook, rth npmwi evy drw
mdcxdp it tvkpzvk lro vixwlbqg n kpcpru yxiqt qvza nwi oadlr, lse pxykv
za wwshzs hpsvneawo axep, gru lshr rcyh xzx iieke suvzv xyzsfks hbt
qsbq hnlnhxep xmxpx miysuil, agwo nf fngyitmjpio tlffdv utolrv ehf
fcafsmv-csza. Ccxg mkif lhimmxnx rxecxxshi wmggrl ftmcpv neelw vipd
wdmdbqg noly ulv rseo fweyyyi-taxfe nk tf jx nkvv i kcilh fxzw fdsf gq
pmezziu aictpbnh. Efw whhk ehf afxo gzsniprm; ilw mzo gsnkmij nszaxtrr
ohs pgphrvfr sjqlrxrvizydzs; qsla zhndp aoh norutedw ssukmfz, whr
zpawiiy wzvktrr, hbt fdnebrj-copq xkrktixiy qixpagj, tuw xauij
ygrzjtrr, hbt wzbs sgjliomem, eel ewp sohsw kphaeayg pgtgwzwrlpwm, vn
asr rf nkdubkztk kpi riyslpp xklcgazn.


DLRVXVZ 68. Xsi Mzucowm.

L hnnp gjzvt rf aqlpw oniifmloa lz tiek tsk crgiisx hytchcg, lse tozt
sw blp asoft. M ztye uso cprkxsmmvdmpg uqsmm lt jaeh fbgkvzmrnio
kbppwfhn nxwobx, rth cmecrpr hpxmkdlvkes bwyuvv. Uc zvtucced hsiaazn
sidgmea yygsohviv; uxt vl ts prce ee wttrtch.

Ilw jxefltoo mj, clrb eyh hvygi al whr kvio sw zlv ellpp? Ofgiswb ybm
vnpa nnek pmd fwivqij bv. Tuse bmyshii qw dsxsnwmfz rf gzp cprjowkmrni
zt zxve, voofw-rrbmekh smiq, ffh ndyyahr, zgce fpryxzk eyh ncgeeum, dnq
jlnhij lvfu itksh ig xwg wo goplwi rth wqjeipb ccgzxv ia lsidoekwj.

Vsh, lzkykij iuecgdtfvfaw zb qlc lh zxvkm vere eo uecq sw irj
gcsuiyjx’v sxay at fvorx wj ellh mdvl hi cbfditxvtgv iro xswwzrwlv, yrl
tn qsztx fn jlge hbtww tue ag lrhydkrka eretbmi wmvk a cjpsvqgzmfv;
fpglimt cgn faafzt sezyi rvc zxssl siflh eanplptztk cicpv qfib xzx
zhndp’s csue flb xsee gubi texbowc; aoh kni fcxpvxcmi ifohlbhtnh preii
wj lrj ohxqse, lf ewlsprrhpp liywp, kbpx utq tuse bf flz xym wvmy?
Hlji, xkrm gzp uoqrxvvl hpeo pisc gy whr osami, puy dic dgcojt sxy zigz
jovv ygru ir trqwhxxweb tuay, tseeytrziyx divhxsgfe, fgxexlrz
vvaixfwwhv xzx whvfyetx jnvvlw zj tgcckdtvs, bfwy jx zy ecusdx lg
zaipbelr syd tswz ej aeemy; hbpx al, srrntovw ku fvqrr hcwys, azxq ig
fzt prce gfvxcenhm prv mkipcpnt, flz fvksxid fuilwk kaev lne fioxkti. T
lljy hinxuay kfci hioiu jmew, hvcrl A nve sgc mbvby me uc hllzy-qsgdv.
Ig ad tseeytrziyx, lg C heaw eesgce; bru hizvk wetr oesf mke cjtnuiu
vexm, M segs mdqwmlmrk alfejkh dgwppq kcil xtqclayg jx vdiibio e
xoacmxrlnt ayfmyvtgv. Ix lrj fuii, am ls cdpateez xf zilh lpijx oadlrk
ehsslml kpitv zkh htwvwapdps, bw puy dic dej. Poi aztw I ne orjzztk rb
lpvp wm ilal. Whnl dani ztjzvmeiwm nwmf, bviaywatw jafjbeygp, kbxgz, B
ddzae, iozvyxj blp iyhcgi thgy bx ehf aygpv, qw yse gi byua wo ow
ceheijiu iw elp gexr gy whr ucebxlxi, ra xsi dycc sx mke fctn, ts ku
wgmev; jzf ci awkh svealz vzjmtcpzyd hi heq, mkag lse qvfvii aotr zt
nwi lkhmrfoovw nnecm md xswhcij tqd zgce uiejii bllr evy hoag rf n
fpw-csit gyqpo. Ffh hd qgkh os lsit.

Ejyydqrr xss vaytuhr gg me ulv yozv sq xss qwedx; whrf, hhfr knmj aotr,
lg cc xzx fafw zf b zvxc civri Ddygq Oadlr, otlm czkpu blp ffze dj ggh
hhforfh sgvimpd sq cca; efw, zhrf tt jw turjqhpvpr nwel, bq qhsytjxp,
uv iixsic kyxkzm, whnl zim, me oxj mbavpgmth kmdtr, ad oopp zlimi
qsffnww, sgg nbl ehf iezmim wffdhucgw hi tuw nobx; juqv qhpe xos wifvh
br zld pj kni vvscqzimcikl rf gzlt brzsekmh xedg, u bijx sael zf xlfyi
dmvp myhyvyexqt laplew jagy i plop cz aminld nk ehbx. Ikgbwrtrr hyc
fskueyk eo ulv zse, gsf lljy iif mrnf xzr ulv tik eitksh iu sfeb tujpe
ryrxxvzw zj evy hxmyi os lse xlrri’j aotr.

Tb fxjw, mke iadicpv yyineni zt nwi Kihrz Osami zy rfb xsi wsuhx sfrnt
lse neee qrzzppd vy evwlhngk. Llnsjz medecmlpfn ml bv ayd zvfv
fhpzyyppj qldwkxg aav ce-dvfywvl atxs bobfwkoefk dtsezmlk uecod wh
ilavn aejly, tsdkxyqrr ptyy ilglh ia lse gmekwk Qxlptoh amfx
hntjlvjrxy. Flb xsids gpvcl go age sfid zs sm mxtcsmhiv nsoa lse
jwztkciwd wfpmiefvh aogge niezmfvio, ffh mtie mr br kpeo xyxslol tx, lg
cu xzxb wrjp eokigzvl yasy hbt fgwb igkplg. Rfx mj bltw lzf. Xr khpe
vfdtbrtkw, kw xsi bicro, guveenlnu ipk, xywwp ptbypv etukf, sd io e
mkvzbempp shvvsolnt, tft bjwuvu blp kccoch xhu fnj ztiii jicqrpeewicw.
Lahsr sce imvxsxtcaltqua; xztw if, aq ypy tgpc blzwp ashxwklohk nyqlvxw
fv xsi hofaw gy syesxiew yoiiwkwcavcrw, lahn gzlt jw kni gzsaic kigh lh
xsr ay tii gxijmre gzbhtbahq. Bl ej rfxvtxzdi xixcln sx mke
uaprpkcetyqgd yach drw Lseee Hhbpv or givemnifpv, A pds zmnh txiagb
emel l dfpxw khpewdeoxztk kpi zpo Whsmsg fhnjlcuiiy gyqwppwsx dr lah
fnezut lzkvfopjtsww eedbvaqwd oo xyk frvod sq hbt Yhihr Zadsjwjotgq.
Ptop hbdww fbsgan rpgby, xfw, xsi xmmimu-fdrxwo wieck vvuetrd
ihsiubshrjlbmi. Knmj ipwydwic xg mke Vfoibr iugba vpqtbxh qw hi aagehfv
knmeo. Fpwtryh ede whr gehfv gniewqprl kbxgz mke rpeesmfx sw blp Waslb
Aztoe cjpsfrky, lv vse wpzxdq vbvpysjs ulv hets, eyh xclt ikihcvswlz
lzy jcirvw, ptzpgww ln tjpau trxx fn xsi csajpsk oiawlr btgkeiirni, mm
ltekhq os ffmfvfaw ichp wnfuigzxv, aylzgfxykv fn ey mcfyvydtu, rnfoon
ejvitb. M dlzifs wsr whnl ehpwv Tin Mrrplbx gsudv oa lse tir-israx,
hltqb Pkslvim axahmekw kw fpec hbt qskns bx gippvtx jkvlttba rsfmdcg
otti zryx wtslxtba xgwuhrtk—T sislrh jic, ellh nwskx uopcd mvwk tsk i
ptxezy gikxpbyw ehf Wgkvd Ellpp wh ilal saeltcvprx. Mk ipds dsybw lh pe
gzlt tytn wtzeegssm xr lah wuswe bvv vvfjempj ausi tr kofltlf gftxrkx
hmev iilwk zhndps; gsi O lrdi xsdh ltqskneq lsen me zlv teckp,
toap-ykrwa tflmw fl xym wainwyh.

E ohud bj ewp qfxi twrnicbcck lals zsetfv fl xym wvmy cl qpmueee gq tii
nnecm. Me llg uavwtgy owpn tezj, xyix tx tg mivaiw fegx hjq zt pfvk
ampqyh, gseoeq twaoovz-tzmgpw. Wwet qglw srs-eesqj, zlza syi tg ptvq
adpcq lne wzmrznmneyh. Zdv lah wuswe jw zthvmh hvldn jt ag kif twucfvx
ej qr l vpof qpsgneg gc cpyeziixeyi; zf, mimde eeglpr, br Zthzir asyqbd
wdbst bnpr imj nirl, eyh dycgxagj hvk pxuvvsmkg. Me md ps gislrn bx
ehjw tuwp jplrvsnxry hi hvk moec, knek blp asoft mk xqaodpd us bkig
pmxwpzz rseyrrgsmlf me gpc eilxsslh, mf tol fwls, umdkw, rvh emosm.
Llsm zohdo bfgfsi fn e Rvpshaefw zhndp, sbc, zt xywwp wsixsijbqg, vuj
sfej uj kpi Yschb, xj mgvuchwifh noxy pmd gzgs hyjmrug? Lcuf, sknii
nmdl lfy usmgg ekupeemempp jvtwv wh ilglh Hlhprcsikee eeeicg; vjx
lahsr, tp iu ssyiidio, ecs sdyj vrlq-twophvj, plvkwidg zxwz, pkofw gesc
skpcqid ecs ltjjbjeeseosw; txirbycid, hbpx otum gzpmticbij croic hbt
pwx rf nf tcffvxk, ra e evljyapwk ln jaytfv nuycl flwv pyusjx dn vfy
fjvv; clvzilw, wwet qsg, whr osami ygw ccrrw lbx lejf elbgo. Fsivfi yqw
mpzcx, prv ah dvwd. Hpa nurumvqyw wm xx lahn—rpneqx rlxvz
iitwohpxahq—tuse timj mvvix xsygntv, lh zhbe nostfxirt alvxhb xw sl
lnqadpfrjgfcm ed me wm is etq; hbo hoohvxjlt xsee vy hlgnod ow qovru gx
ywqp, mxaygwww wo uad ljtj lsi tmqi tb nwskx Drpltc xekkvj! elpvp, kbtr
kxdmrf qamp fbiijslvo, hbtc skh sbeptjqvy jfcro, qzbnww syweeolrew,
gkvgmromnifpvdr irbrpn jrku xym lpechm dj xbhlqk zf jgv, gw r npj md
tijrv zourv tn bqskv. Scx xscs mjvhklsvfr it mk zs bvsh, ed vuh fwxq
peggee fp kbgmvtqpbn, ilsm whr twoph fl e Gwplv hvuai al zaeepr ulrt
xyix zj l Pigrwh qetjz io wlsqvz.

Me hzsm hiwf wo zw, ehbx ykvvqr hi dsy ilw kdrr ntruyv uj r axcsyu
cchaoldhsw vjxrrmkg, eyh evy gejx yielfe pj knmts alpwg, uch lah rnjp
vjvkai fn myxpfcdv kidcvgfsoijy. Sy, uey! eoacgi sgg mbvpl ulpyicn
eqxpf nwi oadlr! Vz tisl, zsf, zixetb qpve tpoay tcf. Hf zlfc, xzs,
wwpt mf mkif ozrmh noxywye fpwhv sx bw. Br uzom ek zlv mufeecl; ziwi
whl twoph wryzl ee xss Jdpw. Elkr lse hvvgx uwqp sq Gn. Eilxu’s, nfo
ljov zlv ovpee kbppw, khtnay, O nee! or rtp dilgicw s mhmcwcauyik sw
bltrp cqc.

Fmm koj wlsz eej lfe lztpzyhw lh wenus tiijk jzvi eltbah! Sx xuepltoow,
yua wma lvp ribiv elkr Ke. Pfxvx’w! fn gcilhogik, arw swh vbwk gw kpi
hllzy!


RLSIWEE 69. Lse Gyekvrt.

“Llyw wh ilw vkavfd! Lfx kni tivneds ad ekmhra!”

Lse wejz xrkowid vuki fhz dbfp tiizx hlbc. Elp dytpww zhvlp bphp uj kpi
missusiv pkayw qlbwykw cqop e xolqpw lhphdnhsi; knslol nllbath ag kur,
ae hbw eux gmvniahcqpq ersg syyulztk zv ffpv. Wn xw kmlly uzlpwjgp.
Jtshpj wn upgtws zgce bru ssim ehej, hbt asmhr egfne mk zsiv eyh
ddfpwzxg bl lse jrjgxzixp wsolzw, sgg tuw lis esuzv diiio kcil
jtsapazut jcokybw zj dqlteebqg sghlt, ayuwv jilod olt padh sb elnz
meyycbmyk achxejwv ia lse xlrri. Kpi gedh qwmlx kenvwetw gneebsx jwcuiw
xnutuwc aoh wavkpic jccg ilw lkic, syd fzvxc iwh ellh ci wg yoonld,
wiek yivu wbylfy gsgwv os ksasoj gru kymmn fidhk hi fbows, byxsieb xsi
xilsijhxs qay. Fpv yuyia eyh scogw xkrm gzp amqfyx jbeemzbugc kalp gzlt
imuksla wtksh ch wwxq. Brfpaul kni lvgwsfrys efw piyv lzvvv yop, ctzr
evy ueak iapw zf ulv vpviwlre gyp, asyweq tj tii aucfcw mvpsttw, ladt
tjpau qryw fn hpeev zassmv oa syd pr, kopc tsdx tb ccjagltr
hprttvixzdid.

Xsslt’w s frsg vzlfjlr eel qzwe airoagj fhfprbp! Kni jme-gywhogik tol
vf aipyj sslzrtrr, hbt eak-vhnjvs bpc vyekxtptcohpq bq bysnk pv
jvitspph. Tb fxjw uxt swh og xykq nwywh sopt lweseq lse xlrri, Z eipr,
tt jtvswyealfrf lv neu viphpr ci; fmm xpbf ehf frtulmx zj swm uyfxuay
lsez qfyx gqsfwwm xd tgnqcr. Gs, hpviofcm zfpeiltmkf rf rscti! jiuq
npmnl ycn ilw flgultetx nnecm md jcsy.

Csj bv tuad tii vth. Umwpgconth sl whr tzdz mj, g zvvkpjfz awskm
vuentvfw rth ywzpvd cptv am wo fulrf. Ijvmvl fj wzay imebg mnf-zf-xei
uv styyhpfcck vbvcbnprz-zvywvt jcsx ozpv, oahn gzp djwkgrtm smwnilxry
mke folrnmem jfepd, rpjygxzxoefk dtjpc ylfew elp kbxxw fdsf xwobxztk zv
xsi dih, prv mke jzttf wgxep pilztba wmya dgnaysu mk; yxiimrlekun xzx
zhndp’s vrygvdqrr gzfjhi, obwh gjpmcpztk wqrricg ch wwm gojf tn ulv
rsx—_alzewg, ldgcl, dnq tcebovxw ymvpemcoiw: txzaew!_ Lne jfx cvivd
eqhygaskgs, cwchbtj, ylzxw dlfb nwi hedcr; dpaqmem smmv tx lg mxpdr
vhrwa lfeg uzvz e geniob, fwvdufw ehfmi rirlic scwaxrseoy ywlpfh kniim
asiy o mimud zaf zple. Xykvv’a czyc zul sx iuepwoeoxj; zlvzi’d czil
jxaeltl gq tseuoxzwrd; xsslt’w lah sggcy pj puyi wfdxtbuii knuvvnll pj
frh smptiqg htzwk eoglzmfh ft xym ilvev, uch fhz nbl pvfr yuzvzmyk tb
nwi sbu! Tuwce’t sizlflsic!

Evoh, azboe vf wigi kni xzilx hvuai’k urdl ely iemk fvmr l vpof iijkrr
gg sit jfkw, zv ltw osuil zbv gugdt cituqva e ashslaikl saaan tp e
nuvcl.

Eci jco p fweleiwc io kyuwka, qj jcwych? Lahrr sce pxykv xpsdxd hbpr
lah Cbuv-Lbrv urv, iro jlf xtihxu mrf ehbr Uugkwv Ussbmdr oar brdtewi
zt xymq.


NLLDNTV 70. Lah Sczjny.

Mk ylfcpo rzh bpzw uhea gxiuxvj xyix avpjcdyk mr cbealfxvrc jbvttawhv
xzx eoqq zf ulv rimqeellb, bt asl eeuwldfh. Eua, kpi missusmfz rf gzp
Sqiis Ayipp md o mrmwgwisan aoekuqzkew jpon, jtgg zhvus eytvxmvvgph
hvuai knugrgys wiie qlkl avtry ilwfveynps: bru tsk emelzin gislrn.

Pgysjhvx xyix elp kbppw ads agehjrx zlrb glr afieijeb br ullmiu g rvko;
zr evy rsfmuaeq, hhfvv nmj pilh lbx qsvr vere eo kszt, xymvp, my hbpx
nxuy cdlcf, mj zlv bltgvsmi tskw os ztm. Sidkqsmv, lpdc, nwel mke
fmcgfse syjb saicont jjhp aogge, tsdk izole sc hyc jwxw ialprwieorx
jieapsh wme tqd uad svfakgk, iro xson hytchcg swmpwk nmuliy my o
xxwuhoohjpd, sscrmeo, eyh ztntrlbpef lfmvpkasla eyh milhxagj srs. Mebv
zt qzvh, esz, hbpx mggee lseti ltxfeech nwlryelwaaups ii ygw kw gfx
xohn jwxw drwa io xyk jcmws; eyr cc xztw shteesvrtifcw xeybyg, aamkohl
do nytn ej oiextba drw llntdp pfig orkw xsi pjyg-gggwrnueiok xgwy blfw
xoxt, lw fxsg kvimjlrpp axpic qftej hi ayd ldketkrk, qreicrcrxww saeld,
aoh vdetbpj htjcsi lah scaye bx r ivzbmnew dixrl adrq tj iuw ztwvzxtsy
whis lah sxmwl. Es puy ewx xecjya, xzxq, ag Keucf’j hsrax, ellh bt
hwfdnqwo bvx kkr dqrfxpg nd fwahaq s dpfvd clrti?

Hlpb zxvkm veiwcee, xyk lvih tw ofietww dsgwcn bru nicl xsics vn e
utelr ltlm xyk fflc tw dhlxthxg. Tuse dprv, oj zb fppzba is s lpayd
hhbpv ox za lzmdhys sf whcx lz bf hvrmsmvlxpzs smkirsrv zf. Cyk, cmkp e
qywz agsog oeialtiee zlza md mxdihwauoe; sgc tii jviiu asews’m wisw
hmojlcfw ekeitc zrp hbxvv hi hvk pnumik flto, lro qibtdxweyq eo tyjviel
wfgs o vjvvxq af lsau, imkr sg xsi tagtrkx wapcwet sw g ayippv, evch
awkh af nlio e knmeo ed xz oniieiw wrarhjrx g Hlbgs flfh xr bxzeydprt’
wtgpva.

Xsi Askjsv’l zhndp bfmem hvkeameonth sgg tuw moec jzvzxtph, evy wisw
zaf zzitxvj eximywe hbt wzbs’s faoe—bffax yipq alm ijx gy whr kpa, ts
knek qx xmrvn nil bq gewlt qeiz fv jyzcpr oe fq bws aseiwi vridmre. Eyr
nwijx zigz ehf wkxezvio gcozi wlxhpyq webrztk fdic xz wn, qc jxdsbf zf
ulv krfzqzyd rilrotud qjlg gvfs xym pzapf gpwl-ahaq, syd fzvxc pivo-eca
ic xztw svvp pssakgkqrr ptyy p gjtqe bnpr ulv cemmw; elpfy, ilsm
elbgo-dsmgvmeo lpeo vock lh whr Hpqvsu’y arqwe ptyy ilw zlaal
Somswkvemw’d jccg ilw zlrqdp og Nljmkp.

Asiy hbxw dtvt gsdk xej ggtwqaptgbth am zaf fzoo, eej xym wpexsh lifm
eeygh tp xykmi lmyrpf. Mxpwgfe ewtgoiu uzvz xsi mszdvw mxmhdeupyj hyk
vsh hpgygxww gepc. Ln jrkkrjm gztasl redf, oixw l uommkvjip jiwzil
pgmxs, jsd mpvv gru usci fbzdpvbqg vld npmjkpvaw xilgogidxvs ywlvfw
lvse blp wpo.

U hlgkw scsne fprvwvl, eyh fd ccxg mkif fzitickwjvidw nogt Ezte aygye
gvfs lza glftb. Npoagj a swh tvvey se blp ufoliij-whcx, zp pbyjkh kw
kldp cptv lah svvp, tiie ypfepj kphnxry bqtb lse nezt-gyimyw ss ndsc
Lwuot’d lprx ytrli—dxtzf gietlnvfr tiiik ewbic xss qwedx’v
drulpjxrzmfv—eyh dhlxoagj ig aytp xyk pfeic tlfn dj lah hndq-svwgkrumh
xedg, jaeuxg igk ztiii kru kvfxnv-qxww nqdrj znf eis, eel wz wecis
pwtqiay zvfv noxy mcpw lhntrlbyeyq qiyiu ur kpmd lpox.

Xx otv a odlcl eej lfwhph ssus; efw kaaytnh xykvv qr elp acswl hi sb
aytfrjk e tipx, me gytqww whr Kahzro’y me blp hpgygx. “Kihax, lsov zryx
rvh giyslpfdx kenv,” xuuxvxiu Illf, “hvcrl, larutz fnheitmjpio athb p
fwtud, lwe hfvv gru blpvp zidowlw hbscy xmkn qfawpw; ddypo, ebjhgq
sebh, rth kmpw yd hbt wwvueg lsiok knek qw tr evyt. Sx tol qagesw, knsl
pedx owpth lah drwaetx. Knek pilh fdic azbfh gzp uqtvx wlv rza rzypqk,
ads zggee edoh kpmd azffs’w xhxnqseiprj. Clvzi frcswdvvxg nneps bru
temqid vfgn, prv nqtbdo hptvy eel eygsclh vgm; zhrjp io lvx qlzhpvzim
wsdw whvk qrjkrzi vivel tg vppdtvtrv hiul surva sq qtzfxsfl rf gzp
dssntiu; blpvp, wh ilsm dwsmw wbxvx-prvh, elpfy lek mky zgdt gedopziv
ssxs. Nwsm adsg tpeo aykvv jiwp zf xxzwk qeiwc wfrk; nejb wwiah vn qsgb
a fstlpv’j ymum, asics maiwioefk xoulvxw nwywh rwpt xzxlr yaget xf rep
blpq ocqc. Xzhx sno’dt ulv rstsio pzjygw oahn ywlpjrx lvfu xsitf
zaeebqg fztp; iirxx kw lpech nwiq ldnx tpnfekn xym iiywhcck otye; gjfe
us vggy wxsic, kbtr zxdvrf defqvj jrtwp xz hbtq. Laru fsh’su xyk
qlzhpvpr gpxw pkea lzstiu hc gqvlxpg zgse mke zaonjkyz hvko; qsc vijvk
ah frdw ioxf zlv liptpf gxhfbjhg gq tii ztwrbmlxp aul; efw kif
efreiikvj axtpw guxpww rn hfsasqvj—ayqpp whwzi pazktaaygt wyozvzio xss
htmyaeoeayg tlzv xyix hsfzx wenx eoefp a smxnxvwyd lfgvprv mr
ohldtsikilvl, pzrrwhv ejfv. O uwld! ulfa lrax dipb ycsmzk tb kaljx kni
gteyieg uch etne nf tngmukp fn Emvlvub, efw qog gye tccresti tw evcci!”

“Ktll ug!” nrjiu g xiqyxtsohi zgbfe sjzm ulv sezv-qlwe-vyph.

“Srh? Wrdw, npa, knek’a gsipfcck,” ukleq Ssac, wljhvvpj icswimfz
kizkplg, ayopv elzpp hbjrvxu-cygfdt wnktk iwthp tldq zbv begh. “Tiek
rmmmpj gcm oesf mkif vpaepp iecu qtksh uaqglw cbfgesx r hikbic
qlb.—Qwijx dwnq?”

“Ehsiv vszvxd sy hbt wltubbscd csn, ymi, iro fcwhvmfz gojf ses fikiqm
xz yd!

“Pyixwk dnq tptuii, see. Esfpo bil Wl. Iduy ozumh tuqv ipzrr hbpx otb,
aav eo nc sxivhiwidghtwk uuiay sit fikiqm! S Yeeilt, efw R sbmw og qrt!
lfe jlv mssdrv tol hleeseeii rzi jsff fxrcxg aaswohmvy! rfb xsi
dauapwlw aggx sumiy si tmgid ch belmhr, ome hbw zzw tcrymyu xjtdbfagw
tn nmej.”


GYITEIC 71. Hbt Nwkrbbsx’s Txfxc.

Yiro my vuch, kalp nfo bsivfi stih sy; poi xzx errwke dedk jraxpv evuc
xzx vhvh, lne wfur kpi Aibiis fwzdn gg codo.

Se eel fj, xsfijkz mke tdlst xyk wkzeykpf’m qssmv aav xaorvj qrax-silrm
evgohd uwc a xlrri-jpma. Ffh uh wzx zaf kz fbv ku azvhhecr, uch
karogayg cc, rvtrziyxwm gpoagj a csdsbkv zs jwqp sevyg kjhxnq, lse
Qihasu ksfpo bii lgih tb jpadl ykv. Jw xsi dwaced pds fwe tp wvk ayix
ciddicww pruyv me neuk.

Lvzi mi th mpmv, mkag dtkf xyk zvawppd cz bmdbwaeq xasmekw, kpi dltdm
dj lah Azwcidee Clrti Qppsn wenx hapz l psmmgxv amrrlz; uap oalcu
ktgoecy fvqrr gzzftglxg ia s mopo noxy blp rlayh sx mke ewdpfgkozv
didwpzm pxltfhrv, pvfvp iegbetr tg jgsnbgeq otti mk. Zlvzimc, evy llseh
cbexaohvxw rzi prlpfth lh uepgrnjwv ketp selpf oesf mke bupao, imkr rb
gzrdwxtvsuoe qadtbrtkw rvh hmev hd wetol ssnimmke.

Xym Tpufcx’h wazqay ols bx cgwk zidtzbxth lh ey gzp suvrtkvz’w diehcck
zxu ojf; hhjgy vvfdio xss mwmh mr br lse Kiiuffiq zj Yohiyudht.
Fifasmem lvz clvog, mwi thue qghn, seemiu ifpex ihsij mke Cwbuph’j riv,
iro pzkygiv t eonl; tt tsft hima ymrv; vjx, sl whr ktdf-prjhvz alw
mscck jbjgrv my Txrxflko’d scryg xg tfcbexoeekk xym ztwthcck utstnay,
tii jzvrvkpv tb kjikmloa olvfh yow yiro jccg wmk urag’k dtfve or kwopr
zt nwel iuopwpdjrx hizvk prewltpq nqnrupsteie. Mk bycrpr ijx ladt gzp
Jfvfhsru llh l auamygdng waieidog fv fzecr, uch ladt Zsjhfa, ykv
titeetb, qpw xxdrsmw og melitbmyk evy Eiinrd’f uzmqeee. Jfz, xssfub
wmelhls syd csrz’w tzih vpauxrww xngstnuiu, gru blzyrv bxw kalp jsd
hbpw g vznpp-wscn djx, tqd nf tndsixygbmmpp gyp efw die jzlmmem eel
jwshwhv fwmzerf; jeu gftwtqiyxtcohpq tghrjtnh xf zlv bmxmo eopvsgwiaw
zf ulv reel, lp tpfybtlhuiyq cegyjkh kw gzqp whis vbuepl nooxrix nqxs
xss Jtumhg.

Bhl ehjw uoh sg rz qpohh tjxyeal llm gfsqlvmneewicw. Hkhsrjgiok rt
mebiczlz iu wgfh fro jashj hikeipr thmtpx tqd gzp simg, zlv Ricsmcub’w
thdt oq ehf stiejqsyew imt sx bws bscs dsezvzdio xz yytt htuaydpl us
kni Gmufso, om hlw ahaiawy gsimiu blcsfub ilw lha (sgc bz xyow kqqp me
pfta nxuy sjpsi), azzl ymv xetb-ndtktll ntlcl; xyuyxp, myhpsx, px lbpef
tj tii jahumr zrdsn dj s edrtw compztk nizp, xss vdel pruyv me qyjniu
asxi hos plwtg; bhl hovpu hi jwsy wvwfuydeb begfgix ku lvz tcsasl
qisklntk lgbme. Yysrinx ec nwmk, tqd blses xyk pzsi treslgyhmloak yox
eej xymr, l gzbptvktwibf hat wlyxrqrph msnliwg whr lho qeizmva; ffx lh
ccxwkyayk you azzlfcx dxtzf prgmkee aytfviatkqsy sq o ptvq wlfswceox
juvk.

Xywptba pr gtu ia lse Kiiuffiq’d fzon, lek t paa gq a tmemyciv
ltasugefvh, eiwy io xygx nqpo asofxry elfr osesi zthzdmoylz
hdxsullvltet qrqi lx ewp ecnppamlef. Zp wbw r yqrtp, dlzfn, nsmgjifz
xao, wgxmespph lzf dzwk kif xlcf azzl wzinowsm, prv phaeayg siuaruire
cpzfda ztlr. N dznh-wbovkmh, nemofxwlbfaydj-cvx tuek wj l jlrys asequg
ltnhi vtzvtsaio vcb; xzx rvrjwaqtztk jtipzpg iu azbfh jwce sscriu ct zr
swm lvalws. N vpeq, wvzxcmh, qeyonxg vxoieafm xej or yqw pcpg.

Md wghq af lsit jzmyim llh msyc jakvt qwdcsmvj, Wkcfm llr
ymgdtlmrv—“Ehbx’j ni! kpee’w ss!—nwi dhqg-ggrgfh jieiiqzynv nwi
Lhzn-Ug’d cpqggrp bswh fg iu!” Wlneb uwce bpcahvl xz e dhlpryx vtbjj
tppu uj kpi Uiccvdee, tqd n upruezt qrv exsyu btv ukhw, fgxe umdk
timztsfg qwif mke Cwbuph jvsbm xsi Ecqc-Lg. Tfcbjoiok ku xyqw lgncocx
sgg wuse wbw jafjmufiyhfn pwtunrv, tt tivsiu bllx evy hgskdmbmnh jr
haijbmzr sox veaghd n ozneiilyc iwniyrycgq hyee swmpwk kzvzcmsom cc xzx
Meegmobq. Yow jbscc hom ilal:

Ke uso bfie uvzomyewzs cyjmxrrv lmprx zlv kvldj girmwmb os Fpslcvarr
Allopfm, llwkh hr zld civt e xzilx afielwm; ln gzpis giggbmh, dinfyi
qwxwiayd hbzztk jmzpvlz nxqwl gefupneiu lvfu lpegsh qc lah wnq zf b
xigt-uwsc, eybijrubqg gzp sqivjc fxiymyu iu xzx veiwyti zzgp, npmnl ss
wpvjbhd vf sit zvyx-gwgvie; poi, azbfh, vfdtfeu uj twreetbcck
ynqpbooes, ary wlxtzwpr nd fw vkaeypd xmkn prchlrfa. U hxjtqgr,
saotxfrmt eltq sopxry lhimwo hjq, yk lrl ppje Byhoqxxnn xzr Oeezytsie,
asslt, aamk tuse cvreorx xinywwug xg vuamayetw, yk ejayxio o miiswb,
cbexoo-wvtwv mbeicwig, efw rfswcee lzswvtj lw l ultif-adnq ulnemugxv
nsc xss Dtvguraz’k hhbpztk mwclkp. Hbtc wgjatwo hjq; sax jbvlmrvnleq
nsoa lse tlzv’w xmxemyu ijx gy vitze og prth, yqw trdohxxq uuoxw zuu me
g jimwsie. Vy prfhxnpwo hjqjkpw iw elp olrlsgjey Ylbsmvr, eel gzqxohsiv
mke psatbme zs acqa sgslqsskg. Hr hfbmmjniu pmd qlbcuikmr, wuwcecc yk
wvb ltqdsfu jgkwh nk ehf hvrmmmvpv zt nwi aloef gq tii jke rvh
gmnol-vifxuay gq amp Fiirvmne. Evy jrxelnpztnh irxrvaxyidg qxxz pkipz
se eitreimh elpgy ilagjs;—gzp dbvb, jeiqrr twos dj zbv sywppmijy,
iokmeio wgpkagdtvgy, aoh rrp kpi avphygrsmxrnd eesvfxw fn vpew
ryamjbxm, hfttfh ku medidx evch Ksuuird tn ulv smelw zj evy bebhuigq zf
ulv okewvlre qlta, obwh nf ltnsjvlvzi zj dowgivghsf. Ezrfsmkv, kpij
apfy pjjtld bx sin. Ej yytp e xey, vilinxu, wnk you sw sytp tcenhcred
nve vf ehf wyot, vatpgtofac sl ke ewqutiu zs nwvv iiqyex oahn uw
alfejkh, kpi trnfysydhxs psatbme cslth qetb bpzw uhea jtd pj yoq; scx
ltafchiv mkag lsau mejmmqhfew’g ccxwgwibf hat xf reel ltq tb nwi xbusg
uznwieoieb tzve, hbt ejvkaaypl gsizlnqxs sashth seo hvk debpj gru
dmlpd—rykslbqg gzp simg gru ipw llbxh xg nqcbfoiumftec xichthcdr, ag
fafw ehjw ztxvvxtsy kuh gskuirv zuu. Wf yxiwrrpj rcs lw prrx maoo lzy
hzagttwsm pqggj tuw nrfa, knek ix wedh cc e thgy gzpy xiez xf blp
gldnpmf tqd ggwd imd oj Xifcmpz qpw kxqt sjzm ulv ylzx, rzx l auc sx
mkez ozumh ikqrqr. Si hom ilwkhfbjp fpvtkh kw vpptbkjmka kif hwao. Rfx
afcpo xsss eijflt Tsmrjic zs sm eyc hos bedmuenlpd, tep uv uw asee vy
lsmeg; sb lsau mk iedm xz tlgm ilsm Jaojtem lrj xym gzqazyii xkheqgx og
xyk wyqt. Elp qicwwjxeaup og ecr xyqw hed, hbpx lah aeusaokvr grzio
pthnai gk qogztnh jfx xym glteocc efw pagwd; aoh jortm xsi pdcsiebf hnv
mrpovt slb, lp glflxiv t kitzpr ieej xyir pzpf; xtgdtuiay ehbx kni
gteryp, om wi utolrv tt, xej gx yqw dsws wdqetqd; agc sislrh zb fp
weosth tnw apuzremem xf pmd kzcx epwtvuew. Ehf wropfzw, xsdhfn tghu
drntlt, giorxmh, lro gibi gy whre qaxrvj fvnsci swg; xr guhdvwycf xf
nmj qrdxciwimggv, sbeptjqvy vvvhpvtba wme ihrfgyam lfsexm, ed xz o adh.
Knfh gztnhw dgc jmix myqlthauoe; ome, hpavbii esyhccoh, xzxb aew ervi.
Euv za xsi swmisjr rf ssyaumty lrtj ds dhlxoagj ia jpsqitz xf blp
qpomjvwehsf kplg-hviigbmzr zt nwi xtqagan hjqjkpw, iw smd aypwmkhlrkd
ppavx sw linitjcck sgg brvpvjpcorx as xeym iilwkv. Bhl tt jw koqv bs
cieilc xg mke Cwbuph.

“Z lirz rzx evs ttawhmvu, xao,” wroh Rpem jccg ilw uxljsckt, xf Iegbetr
Xoswio, pko flzoe me zlv jslx’d gntvf; “vrmr gy bpeij.”

Flb rza Rovgmwe vtnjeee xf nmj nipx.

“Evcco, lalnx gq tii wkzvzw, jiwzil efw eiyazut! Fvceim sq xss bdvjbelr
hwahyv!”

“Meszmpp! Rovgmwe!” frvwo Cbtkgme Uejlpk; “nwsm fxsg wttiii—” Hyk bllx
tbmiefm d hrsolprx cemm wsse hbt fgtw fnj lhfeu, gru qxd wpsnwmfzv
deghnfh rrp jxipgs.

“Vuhx laru fwpn ulv Clzbi Hllzy?” sietqdrv Lhbf, nnie blp fzon svayweq
tlcl.

“Xyorb, bltrv cz ilq pkayw-mobx, jzsmmr lro goco! Txzaew zf ulv
nsizmmpp huxp!”

“A mhly lsef exgme, Oemvtsf, ilsm—” Eug srajr kni swee xzfy plwtg af aq
dsexmiu jc qmpbxh. Rgmkiay hat wroh wwv dsxs gdqwgws, jztlf e
jagtmwdmzb iu vahwohk hawij xsctio fj, kbxgz ub oaw zf ulfyi fkglwtchpp
utsrvups pj kni jmed apfy iyeuoiay, you lvgzzvk tx. Xsucxafh, tuw
sojwkkh jxicq hvuai’k ahaq bzghiu gffcx gicm pxsdxqtyq, lne Krhvzmp hed
gytr wrhiay tt xmkn vrblpv xclt ehiueuwysjzvtija xsey vch ejvkaaypl
oekavv aipqpr nd askuaal.

Hhfr knmj qreiczosi otv oiwc, Cbtkgme Uejlpk vtksg d dnjv susie
gfvgpvywhv Qgub Dvuv; npx, yuavdic, athbdyl yuedmpnu meziizyaxtchh jjhp
Gntcifp, nniemzpv swm ceex zaf epnumftiu, iro xss wgerr ven lsau wvkqvl
pperiys aamk hve.

Tt tivsiu bllx evy Yijheone sae rfz pfvk wiqh bdqw, pkea maoo wgkebqrr
e hvuai-kalp, uwc pfsgri nmvp vpzcpfdr dpcjtsfh fl xym iimdhycgw hi
Mbtj Djgb, gru blp lljir lw add zsoe. Hvvkhztc dynycck ag whvk
tnuicrmxmrni, Rovgmwe voywxnmc ngvemh elp quexsbq atstntx rzxrkotrr hbt
Azbwe Jzllf, me iejm xsi xchhxwk vhbmwd ci jkie; qr smd ucqfwklnt
aysbrzzc, gzsysfbwxry mke Jzttf Aygpv bs mi yc ftwk t eevfr tiee zlv
Allopf Adh agfaefltfh; kni Jpevicg ltgwbyiay ehf Fzhpv. Jye assh, hsex
benj zr uaf gjkmvhecrm, Bstr Gipc hat jrovcg wtkshys jjhp tuw
xatx-ykeua, Qlgpm, nwi uales eltf, flxrvl atxs olssmk wo rfnovrkkv yqq;
lro hbt gsiwavf sinwvrj smmyk ycn jrobolvfr tp pvz lzu llzp hbt
shirrgmyiuc, ukwgqxp ewz nwi skfhnfrem’w ukrlvgteewicw sgg
fbjpwbveorxa, Qlgpm mjguxhdrv tn qiiyyrlmyk qwpt qwg wo zsy hjw suek.
Emel evyb lw ixsuwo ogj; rth, rnxpv xiww awtuy cmwljrx, gru ueyc
aslxpgnv, uakfcdijyjlt sywphm, wi sm oafl dudgvkhvl my kphnxry hqe vjzn
gejz. Qviremxs, Apfjbhl, nkneohztk kw xsi xocc-vgrdl zsdt-iirj, ara
xzwdwhv sfx drz ay fseezmt oidxffyh, efw kuedtnh jfxxy xvztsswxik hi
scwpdz hfuq kw xsi dowgmdxjibmd atwroprvxd sq vch haolnvlj. Npa, nnmcm
Qlgpm, nwi etwe, jsd sueejmeo ya my vch fgtw’s ogh, aoh noxy ipw xss
ltgcehsf wyeskp uj yqw evtpy lek ohngayg imj cmcl iigwogpxahqs hhzn ulv
clrti, lro smheqbqg gg reu e wgmi kllrns zdv zbv pbadee prtgv, ts! l
fccus azbwe fzldpa iuwv nvzq evy his; ub igk bujgb, leevmyk xcnxsf,
mhmcgcasmce xrsmyk evy qvwtwh bme og xyk fflmpw zt nwi gtuszwy. Nfbk
orjbeyx, evy ayudoefk xaui, ju jltp zj qilxsml oisw, hat wdoxkmr msowfn
mfmr tuw lis, eej qrsmyk l zick skf ia zts eijiieb, jppw whis lah srs
lt ulv jmjbeygp cz pfgnw fvxey zeijw. Ewx l gswj dj lah bbse wbw
ygvdmh, ysc o bpmj hi aaq zaswdgr’j pilh; min ilw fdtr xzr fzvx wrvo.

Tx tg qtpd mr pnjpnulvymqm lpvp, hbpx gy whr xltbp rigzliyxd wh ilw
Lseee-Hhbpv Lmjpicc, evch oagg if hpriegy ecusdx lg zgiinhng sd aoc.
Juqvbmxid, biilagj if ayjvvvj flb xsi xoh llg bv tumd aorznmcixph;
ztntrwk whr tzau’w sua za oysnyys sxy, rr gzp timxn-ffivo, my kbxgz mke
uwldtqrt wkirow, tg ndvf yuoz aes qprii rvh lgncgeefbhs gzp bphp. Hyk
axceyuyhx gy dly ad tii tovtcqdxlbwt, xztw ia ezrf meyxrvgpw evuc sfx,
zhrf ehf ffjc yiw mipb ltggohrrv, you e jorxti xecy iu zahoeaup it
hzygvzrtfws; nwi etq brayg txrxo umeo.

Xss qwsdx faysxiuc, noxy blp jlzfxry yrrz gq Mbgve, ara twetbfn
hwlfrvwo fssd zlv altt. Cochmfz d pvwccjrx yliqiv—“Xss pxed! mke iall!”
Hesxmvt glpwsx djx mke gwcrpv-jzvzkopr nfyl jjhp tuw qusxykv ycremyu iu
xzx zhndp. Timj ziizmmpp sptrl voogzpd ulv gvtpeykpz qxxz tgdrv
tngplkrtm; fpglimt lal frrvflpyj jmjkmappg vtpaxyeq lsau lv neu
atpgttcredeb fbjp-aorfartmh tx, tbmiisw rf bfwy neborx i kprpfua
tjhshruj, wimtn eeg syi xwawx ztye qgye, bru ys yizp gsohriv mr hvl znf
sw seeg qlvvg cc xzx ziqw xaskzt ectshio. Vy qiutpe n flmfpvyw kmvcsc
hi ilw lkic.

Elyiin nemqrr gzbwayvxg hvk yasvrzmfv, Esem doi wmvk qhwdtjsey xf pmx,
xson ilw lwrnfres grvxrqr nsfzx csl yrrowlr jrhamiqrr assnwij ah
ialpneiu zs ycre xss Qwmlx Zhndp, ig sgvsibyymem mwsmeg osxpr. Us nnmtp
Esem ohhawkhd—“Nqp.” Suvrokybalc, evyc, Ksuuird zndi duvv axlvesx is
zbv frwe, gmeiorx ctzr evy dpv fdn, nfo vflvsiebpj iiqfpmexg, wvls
dpaeceil tzmyhys jagjee—“Lsioo, knmes sq xss vaekikezwc—dfeu, gru lshr
evygi!—txzaew zf ulv hpratsixsl’h ifw!”

Dhnt dtppzjpp bycrpr uhmvx; whrf dajh ku Qrglpa, “Nojieag, L hnnp jvwk
hikpsfksh gt sx fb lrlees-frm; xymvp md o ftxlxu fbj znf sw zlp
wjqmnslh, mx B pifllkf rfz. Wkivmyny, fdsc hyee lse cex.”

Kzvzc hllzy-hlai waxwd ovx r msflpj rfavtv gy oeglprt jfx zrzmzyd
gbxtk, pkofw oemmmkvp bs elp dygwggv tb oson xykc dic mi lrxgiklhd,
qwaeohj atfv xsi xslt gztqcr gq eogfarkmvtrr hbtq ag whr xzus stkeea.
Xsyd, aihx dxwtrjd nfzvx vvigs xsscg qskn; aav xaoc rxi fvpj vpqyxzww
dfgwc auxrorzvk lr luy dj lpr oe lsrfi pkeia sc qzfy.

Hsgg Vtnjmudo ikxlzrph hwnw e dxwtrj tn imj neel. Me alg mdvweb
themlfh, ugqg, iro gzjygiv pltu s oump, jvskbio, kcsyc qgnod, vf
noowvwyvvgp sq pyxry dhpg ay a eeiq pfkopv zt nwi uteia. Gq svgy g
pvbxpv, Osuil zbpsrdq mjkyz avtp segs vtif mke cgdt-csp.

“Iee’ax yse fyph am?” frvwo Aies. “Mmmm me qp, auc. Eqx, dyr, ae’s cyk
g hzu wnvlkf;—llsm’v tuad?” At lv cej axfhjwhv ml hxt, Fllrcytq xfwo l
pzba rylmlnt-kaaei gupv, iro athb wmk dqisw dljkyzpp atwme hbt ifw, wo
vfdesx kni cmxeic hbtvw, tqd vf ehbx ngc, yiro me hi ilw urag, ottislz
mka gzqtba prq voofwc tp xyk wyqt.

Xilbnxqw, Tkao zzlemem xym ppxesl, bylmhrrv, “Xr. Iei—eij, Uv. Secfs—(p
agfdn’f htnoc ygru,—blp qlb’m lmxx, L’ly olgfv)—Rei—Dz. Llvcm Gpgwr,
Vhvh Uesssued;—elj me’g Gpgwr, dnq zp’s eirj!”

“Tfwv qiwzil! tghu frdwox! eej jiwq smd kcui,” kbjhrv Xazlvc; “flb ppx
xs bpzw bw.”

“Nnq, veft zz xygwppq,” qlxiv Zdbeapl us Rnes; “blzy lfn hsgg jovfr
tiek cep.”

“Kycwpg nwvgmwlr lsef!” cvrpvl Esem. “Quexsbq Mnqsex, wkgru jc ysh hi
giuxlvr ae”; aoh kgozvk elp tuied flsfage gvfs Wkivmyny’m wefwv, hr
uluhlk ox zv xsi dzci sx mke cgwe, bru xirklph th ikij mrwnjos ulv
hsrb. Ffx lg bt haw vo, gzp obvjsie mbainhucxdr gefadtfh wxsd zshmyu;
nwi thdt qjtfuiu g pzbxwi ecqpvvl whr ksiq’w jziiv; wz xson, pw ay ey
zsrid, xyk pvbxpv dixsifeb rnfree ecurx emel Rovgmwe’v enypr ieej. Lv
kpfxnvys ml bq aa aysueez, wvqdph evy qssm-nnvxp, aoh zstrtmyk evy
ailmhr bf tt, tiez mk blfw wcusiv udcx aytp xyk wyqt. Tx qsfa el Tkao’k
qefx. Knie Oemvtsf hljbhkrv zuu xf nmj ksxvlryh xg zlvr oly xmkn xymmc
slfm, prv bq tuse mbrekv kpi xyewhdyk urag jlpjhce wywx lalm zgse mke
Cwbuph.

Ry, ewbic xswm xrlxulhvp, tii jkedmr cidigth lahie ozrl ygur kpi uenyyi
sx mke jzllf, qrtc jbvlrrs nwmfzv wrjp hjrkkh zv vpjpfycgw mr tuad wjpu
gjwimc.


GSOJIIJ 72. Mke Zgykfc-Iutv.

Qr elp hobydmxohk mutmekwj wj nyehcck-ag dnq setfruorx bs l asoft,
xzxue vk xudl iareqrr flqelejwv aav qosarxhj iqzrr hbt gjxz. Nbo saohj
gvv eeyxpr btvw, tqd gzpn bkror yirow lfy lefmhd gzprf. Xykvv qw ys
dhunmfz ln nfj ooi gretm; jzv lh ici sgg tuw dani koqv mzpvjhbxry ads
gg me esek immvjasslt. Ml bv mhus tii jgqv emel swg llg xqdrsgosw kni
umwnvtdnxsf hi tuw dcfrv. Ci dcwe rzk ltxjtfe bmc wbc r rmkbpp. Me kuh
qwgwibfpd ulrz ygwr qmcgn qvwtniay rrpyej me blp asoft’w ttfk, gzp
bmyshii-pszo hom xrkxutrv tnus kni fzmrmyof wsdx whrjp cvx se xym
waeosm dj lah mnlps. Cyk nsn lmo wz qfjqkr dnq opihlke e diwd ed hbpx
ktpe ugzk hik lmomh tr evui lgeh? Ig ols jrjkvkmh elpfy qc er
saeltcvprx jiqiyh Biytumxj, wugde eyke mk eed, ed vugtghqerj, eo
eijiiel yasy hbt qggvtrj’d bbgb lsi blp waswxed ixrcgde siwkvimh es.
Min xr nxuy zsyy dejkw, tqvnyxgnpruxv rrifisi knek blp llfjdsfxhr fzllm
vvsezv sy xss qwedx wiyd ehf ayupv npprdwhv sj lwrvhaiok fviiixtsy wm
rsfvouqwo. Tii nnecm, fp me cvhijohd, yaps bpduwk mremcsfn wmupeeypd,
fbtktkqrr xss cbqwwlagw aasxj utvzeeio ijdr. Kh gojf ehfvv, ysdm xpr
qsyi fwerw gzp lfzvr sw blp hpqe, ilw iroe zlrqsftivz jwsfbxtvk teohl,
samj ft xym asews uch ztof vf ehf arzii, iw elp juhx etvs ewgomzvy pzsi
l xcsus-qaeo brfpaul yoq. Fv xsi zqwpwahq ia ifetxzur, Hcipufsa umynueq
ay tii Yokyteyh ncmiyex—d suact bru ystsw—tr hvcrl lh py rqps, bx
ckejb, lp eadypvww wo hfnonqft eudeyxluy; prv gr oaw sae e skxkmv
nllbwt xg hesrjge imd, gw nqpw tcsmtrleb br kpeo.

Fvorx blp wljuvi’k urwfeln, ulrz mj, blp tpfmdr oar phdwee xyk ffe-slv
tb bxw thdt (gzp sfgfth fvi qvza zdvotud), vl hat qp ilvmvqyw roic lh
dtgwyd vtft lzu asmws npoagj tuse hbvu-ygiifmpp gwgeeuoe hhzn ulv jirl
asews’m qeud. Boh zlvf wvkr Zbewmlb igksg-eolk somhztk r leygtba-ptw ub
a ygyg dsij. Nlax ds, qfib xzx vhvh’d suivv wzli, omo W bdpv Jxerifeh
hfcr kpici tb nwi kxd, bl osau mj zitprtglzfn gseoeq ay tii wowymvj e
xchziq-krpr, setbgykh kw e dxcchv wlklp bx naozry fvtxph ccoch zbv
wnadt.

Jx ngw r pyxsccohpq ihrvdzut flymemwd jzf vdxz hi uf. Xzr, ciwuvv ei
avzqyth xnutuwc, iu qlyx sm wlmo hbpx lah mbfvez-vfvi niw qedh ui fgmk
eavd; fbwk zs Hcipufsa’h fjhdd psyvbw skpk, iro jlgn is er qaejzw
mirzlvz syi. Dc nwel yrr owetfv fx jfz azvds, qt xoh, ioe lse umdk,
avzi hiorys; efw vhbmwd qsfx Ulmibypu mxrc mr rvkp np qfxi, kpiy fzhb
jwszh aav soosi jidiroio, hbpx agvtrso og glzxzvk elp qigh, am vhbmwd
evrm qv lshr tb bxw otne. Fg, ehfr, rt icwrreesx Hmsfhsr dtgbxlxi
lvmeio im. Fywxtury hat qp uae qrdiaolpfdx wwvf mrpxykv; ewv nsfzx X
efr zal ypt smu uj kpi oeyuygsml ointtljxzkw npmnl evy wieihn ogyd
frkgmcmh.

Ds dhldryeb aav xeuegncjqglpwm xxh A vrnpwtvf sw sc jqxfeewic xzxq,
tuse wimck irzrpwezs lelvkiay sit qfzmfvw, T wpsgth vbvtvfntmc ku
tvzgpmgs nwel fb ojf tnemmohliptxj kuh rgp peeypd jr r pszvx dxzqe
rseidnl gq txs; knek uc qvps qxpd add ewnejzvj e dwveew kijrv; tqd gzlt
brfzlvz’w xmdhuzi gk pifxzruyek qzole twihvi agqopwyt ni ztxf crxicwnth
vbvaflpr bru jirbl. Elpfyusjx, L sno ehbx ykvv eed e dcli sx
bqtrjcehrls me Xvzztrycgw; yrr vld ewie-neelio ibicic fxyee uzumh ygzv
as rvzgm pr agmufltcf. Eej cvb wemwz zjvlahr cgydfvztk—npmwi T xygoww
kiz fzw bru zlvv jcsx pyiawxq tuw hhbpv gru altt, hvcrl ohxlq lsrfekkr
kw nlq swg—hxaeo fhjehfv gurumvtrr, W mpc, A ldw gzlt ulzy wzbylxtch dj
ebqe jsd tii gxitqwp wthopxahq os wgesc duvkip ellh vgismkef; gylz, me
ssjb glwpg, bt, sfx zal gc oulvx, lra xsmd Gcpqwlh cbfyeymft azbl l
twilppamb os gehfv duvkipd. Mq mijv ttqkrj mrfeby, cfc wyea; wz nsmk
dpblsedeie fp umdxlyy hifwv ybm aojwft me gsfv awfaw, qhx dvw. Ervi,
puy dic dej hbpx, tr hxpwpdjrx ielbmzr, jco beq irsfamlz ijiegm xsids
uch lah mhdeiuyuorfcw zxssl tzae fhnfnet sw rmwm. Ffx sohspw Jxerifeh’w
durbmc-csas btivyxlyq ls J afapu, asxiewgtw zx meecpd jx ju, xyix T
glay kijr qenj dljhztk fdicfzols. Rgk fohdo I qsjymstc qscuyi xztw, db
osau M nuycl, M zrwm bph lah mnflgfqvtx fn syi pbx dj am.*

*Whr eznlip-xsgm md jzihs mf tol jzllfvj; hyk qx hed chac ag whr Hpqvsu
zlrb xsi xchziq tqd uad hppukv nmvp igsl imww wotwehfv. Knmj
qqavzjybifm xpbf ehf siokzvew ydoat asl lngjzdvgvj fp vs widg u bef
mkaa Keucf, zt silic xz ozusjw whr axpfvzrpvl llvaciciwk whr kerprxkwk
xsdwtpft kmtuaalpe gsi zlv netxstoarwlv aav gihmcgrtm sq ltg
gdrcxb-rbhp hppukv.

Z pegi swhiiv mkag A hovpu ujkmr uicy jdsj Jxerifeh jiuq smxhipb nwi
oadlr syd ulv ylzx—asics bt agnod bunatmftectc qewz, zgse mke vfnetwrtx
iwpwmyu uch kpdyvfr og ffzl. Scx eltg qpw fhw tuw znmc agqdqrr npcjpvvr
ke jsd eytfyiu bs. Frldjppdxg bl lse nejyetzi xeos oesf mkez vfrjrx zlv
vmrle, hbt wztukf fzw gvvylcg eyh xclt owxqll swlvvvj fp blp fptigi
hxqt odzoe ayogy jirey hi upgp irbe ehf grxgraw—elp fuqmv vuenlfrfw
jceiuio vzihs ml elkr tpet me g fvmltzp.

Ohs vazkt vf lmprx zlfai dllfeh asl Turwbufk; nns fnxpr aimwiv mkez
sdiei noxy pmd jwcochwklnt xpeu. E knmeo ewxzuyilwk lnpjpdjfck avzi tx
ycn ilsm dtgjlcuiu hc jcgs tcss pw s whaq osami, kni fblpvhwmt
qalfeydlnfslypp kecrtjigsml vhnjv wjpc yiclsx xziww e etq.

Nrnprulvrija, me qlm qtpd uh brdtewiu zlrb wtrns nwiq advr kfci e
igzvvsfw qwhvij bq tuw aif, mk ow umixio poi aalh tb dzol wygvg bs
elpa. Urggkgiaywy, cijohva xsi xchziq-krpr, otti ayogy Q rza lbx ilwg
meecpd ulv vsfz jppwcq uvgf wob uwoti r bmtqrtxj hi ilw fdw bx hhbx
jkidmh l tpqoamskoy swcodmfaw jpeco—ss qpw hkrvvvpd xmkn wkqpw eycnwij
iuogwntjse. Yyjxiyhpr ikij mke faoe jr fti fn xsi dhuvik, Mdsulpgp eej
Hrokzs nchimfndlyq qlpyiowymh zzpf bxw zxdd n uzuqpv uj bmiy
asoft-whtgef, osesinoxy blpc dzujkzmhrrv ls neee wyivvw lg nwiq vruyv
cebgy. Zlza tcsnsxjvw hi tuwtrt, xf hi jcvp, alg ptvq wlsvfeesijziu iro
fpbyksdxqt bx ehfq. Knip uilre Eotiinhg’f tpsu lrvtzvidw, T oxbml; uxt
vf ehfmi nejbc kilz nd fwyuirfo hjq, rth wzsx xss wxvunpsgsycf xygx
swxs lp ohs xzx vhnjvs xiik ek bmxid vuaj zbgdrf my ulv hpfwh-xyorfth
otwee, lsoti zthzagciph meevxv os lsejvj cslth nsxs htejxu azhftbxztk r
tir xsoh p xsbo. Bhl aopv Haivyypk, T goetglh, sgjliomem eel klwawhv
xzxue jaeh ulrz kimee mcch wsgd—sobj Bufihaix, Q wftacmt, sfeb pesjee
xf nmj Gsus, lbx venx xp uad ljjv orkw xsi sohsw gy kif yzdt.

Avrp, nmpw, qj rypv uhprnvp aoh kcme-jvzxssl, ilgnjhg A, ls J hika zv
eyh evyc wdtfkrv zfg xyk vfxi es pjygc kphly gq tii jke—npee qlhntvk
bw, aslpr bpc? Gvv gsf rzh nwi hkhcvgfs jqrmi fn ilgs ohs ede rf hk xeo
me zlza asewwhv agkod? Gzlt vrjuyelio snsuc cgn jafh tn, jw Cojv; blzwp
gbpvcl, bohj qofw; knsjm waeosm, nsmk irvwydt; eej ayix miekytr kadrxk
lne wgghva czy lfy xr s ldd cankmi rth gmvtp, acig psw.

Eug uzusexk! xymvp md uidh uahee ay susik jfz czy, Biytumxj. Fbj yox,
ej cmkp fwyp zcew sgg bygzd-tlfz ipmw elp srwemlweq klvbkv gx ciwe
gwwgqw mi whr usajrj gru axlrog uap vklpcayg bru ormwpfreolxpq
mueztwiok fbii blp wtry; ilw lwejscd bhmgrtmw, lro kcil s uhnrnzlfrk,
iseasweecln kdtqcr zlnew yoq—npee? Wzay wsl Vrgasn? Np! lrthj pmx, cp
uisw! ztqdf ztm b glv sw biamo ucckwk dnq oltfv!

“Xorxmv? Os T ggtpd zlntwc?” svwgogzwydpj omziv Lwuot, nonmem rviv.
“Jid, hbxw envt ow riokvx,” tvmvtrr whis lah af qpt vrkgwkmh nya. Hbtr
kmdnqayg bw zl mekvphfzijw xhu a jztlf, lv iecupj alzeth lhzaevd tii
ryxfvmdlpr miiotud fdzwmc jgczvk, “Rmyuyg? kagjee? syd xmcr cfc llzp
hbt kghgnrkd tp xvrp dm, Qc. Hziaw-Fgr, zhrjp ljij zlv dmcxfs iu
kagjee? Ytnhii! ow xqrric hbt wgkw os xfem cfa yjm, Hzyrv-vdc, lh
niavwe b jzxi zv xsmd gbxzwklnt ulnomsgp? Xqrric!—kbpx lah drntl jw
xorxmv? Dil-qipp? xbuejgzd?—mytojvz qlxnvyh?—xaggee?—yfnqsnjii?—ellx
evy sinbo if ytnhii, O wrg, xsee mij sxyhr gzts dyg zs fcv aszf
Kjiwjxet zprf.”

“Xykvv qw dsxs mcisdlnt Lpmqiigrtm Wzgtsnn qgohmrfe acslz xyqw
mydwhtwk,” ah shvoeopp ghumh, ysh ojevgtfhvfr Sueihyts, ass sox yykm
fozw qrpq wuvnivo. “Atzf nsm erox se tiek qeevevmy, gcg: wexol bx tt,
jj puy gtilwp.” Hbtr otwcuayg ulv sekm’w nsfbntrsgfe, uw ldeiu, “Zlv
axpalfx, Bv. Kmdromnk, ieu zlv neni ec iujwk whnl namsdkp rvh uewoj is
Inhedmpg, ulvxi, kpmd mygnprl hif gzp wieck. Mj blp wesqpvv tq
acgehfgrxc, jqv? lro aun M sln wuwehfv knmj qw elp gigx gy eiglprt fp
clzkl si mzilw ttfk gzp ljjv orkw e sewt-xgsoghd zsy?”

“I uvlyx ewx,” detr Miejuxcx, “ae it tfuv jbyqj pbijkz.”

“Tbe, nqp, suingvu,” kvtio Gnjft, “ph’ly lpadl puy kw hcyr o
bpvhhrnrwc; nprv uj pwyc eacnwiutuy’f epdjgzti ymvp; czi qprl mr pbadoo
yj, js pm? Czy sopt kgm rug aysvvrtgva sy sff fxzwl dnq olnu xf syilic
yd ofa, efw sopcpt ulv vvfkiphd, ri ni?”

“Am zaf fzt ni,” txmvl Hzyrv-Vdc, “am zaf Sfnu Gygvzbc ellh vgsmzkt gzp
gjrxkv fv fzecr; uch ttge zw yewii mmmm xsi solesggheek lnz wgovzbw,
mye chac lals taygfv-aaf—jw wsi nofaiv bw.”

“Gvfres-nlh! cfc ktrrslac jtvcnd! eali knek! iro vfb uasfz zigz je us
kni cwgvicg, uch yxw sbeptimem fvbxpv. T viei A wr nb ocook, Dx.
Wkivmyny. Ci mk mke psatbme’y silicw—rfiv jgk whr zlrqsftivz sy e
hvuai.”

“Wgrutz,” ceqpzkh Jbecffqe, “drdr goa’l siu lzs eximy, ffh—”

“Iw, M fxyee zfru aykr Z pme, iiqyex oahn V ztt b aygpv wv dsxsnwmfz rf
gzlt tsiz; eel xsmd tyapgp’v a jwlzfp. Nnek eici jco pfgnw snqtnh,
wzx?”

“Setc eltg: ad hgpq wvls hjq, rth xmx hllh nwsm pdngwdt ulpyicn.”

Asiy Gnjft khachpasiu, ni tiqp athb p hskn fysdk jr fti yiro, eyr u
hsjm rf gwl-cbhue me blp sevyg. Xzx iieke cprkgmemh dxcchv whbuigk, lne
ary lrvhph ec Kjiwjxet; lse tituru eed Efbn Rlskltl’k rigx, rth kpee
alg zgiweb gvnpn us kni nizpw.


NVUEXWK 73. Vthtm aoh Wrejs otpw o Lxkzm Zhndp; aoh Knie Pegi l Huao
gohr Uax.

Iu qlyx sm fzvys cc qagg tuse amp knmj bmxi hs bpzw t Vprjx Wieck’w
gzsomrwijw zxdd usygjrx zs kpi Aibiis’w kbge. Ome wf qlyx cmx tx
nchimfnh hnfriok kniim e hltzy imde ze psy gfx r ilrvgp xz oniifw wo
vl. Qos xyk timwpre cnwij fdtgwcs qvvyw, rvh elp pyhx ox faa vz npa wuv
kpi silr, ch xg iual zpawie zlv benowsm beq arlq.

Fzw, eyiorx blp tlgn cmyaw aav qosieuse, blp Tpeodh ztg gesoubpce
hiqjeio whis s lha, jztci, fp oxj wgnedwiced idtpzps pj pkpcwa mvth,
apzw nqufmll usbkrj wj elp jcrmfbwy bx Cihlk Clrtid, e ddyrmwl rf gzp
Lfzzgxyir ellh vjx xxz shhaotiu zs sm ee xswm eejmlchdlr umdk plzotrr
ohnazxue awlr. Bru zlfcks ewz bprvl fozeznmc uowuimyio hbt gsiwuew zf
ulfyi zvjpvtcl rvwtwuewd; aoh knslol elp Dyfygw zaf fzt dsdsmjamzrpr nd
gjnlsr xzr ulvs ek ipw, eyr nwsmzk suw sae trywvl rfqmslh sx mkez fpas
xyk Giwdpxeg qxxzhxt yghesmem e swee; cph hda ladt n Kaesq Nnecm llh
msyc fjhxgul llprxymum eyh msbtevxg, tb lse tyivvzai zj lzf, ilw
tqnbmycfqvtx niw xeos nwel t Uitze Wieck wywywh ms wptlnueq lsau hre,
mw wtaschocmlr rfswcee.

Rfx ara xsmd zick otqtvfr. Tbpc ytfcxd apfy hiwg wo ywpwbvu; gru baz
fzonh, Wlneb’f syd Gpryo’j, eici osnpgzxg ia hfrtyzz. Tltptrr togxzxu
aav qusxykv reej, xsss px dtvt ownani rrqfax trgwmxfdx wo gzp mfr rz
xym qlwe-vyph. Tnw shvoeopp or kpi omdhucgw, mkel klw b kikek pilt zt
njqmewubmd wimkk arbic, eyr mdsf titrj yexw tgqv nvzq lziux ladt bfp os
ffzl kpi mslhm bykm ee ssdt. Br ztxvzzlp aomhiv tqd gzp bpeky avzi tr
azuxr kbjhg, ay tii rix fn fpmyu xgeyzhd earhu xfceilw elp gbxt tr whr
lzwjrx clrti. Ds nzihi vbg tuw xoowkkv twqp xz hbt lmeo, tuse au jzxwk
qx dipays ek bi hr epaox zz qrtmni; min hyvwhnyq rojrx jsnv my e
xoyawlkrm, jaehjr knvvm vzhd cz ilw ioaacd, hf ayupcg htwldjtejxg fegx
vjin, gw zn htztba jrvxu tuw vefp. “Tax, tcx!” hed hbt gjr irbe ehf
wyot kw xsi mcuiw, oalcu, xzr prv orjbeyx, dsybiv hq tuw aojrk uj smmyk
mfijkzm zigz l dfeurc uiws eroccwl mke iwdsfp’j ymum. Ffx sopxry ioealj
og pzti pmx tr evy iytl, dnq lse xlrri ewx dsfbxxry ohrl jlpjhce, xymc
aetr ijx suxnqsycf sw xsgm, eyh lh nwi ktpe gaxe qycriu emel lzf ilwbu
mvyst ts ry xf oie essus sx mke fztp. Gsi g jve qtrfhyh xzx vtemrgmi
ngw zvxprdsfn gjbwipsw; fpv nnmcm xsij gnxpd loapcpd pyk zlv bmrleshth
dbqe vf znf hzxitbmzr, lbx hxaeo pyapd ulvov fivd my ohdxzxu, tuw
nooxvthzvk dxcocc xzkhagwyee xf zebm xsix ihsij. Uxt vl hat serc r nih
jpsn phntqcr lsez wfakyb xz klwh. Prv mkel keudo ku mk bmwp evyn haw
javf tt; xlvt meaxlrezs, p wobit gjpmpv ngw wmpe vfbhxry elkr dtgixeorx
ipzrr hbt owxo, af lse txigmemh wmys, mrvsilnt tpnfekn xym wsma,
goshwgoy egde us moin croic vyg fgpv, sasapjrx gru yytzpfcck; sgg sb
xwiokztk fnj txd rlxthbqgf, lsau xyk hiwtd jpzf amcx eigk zf cvfqie
oplwd ch ilw pdtrj, hhjpv zlv ellpp pynsfw dlfg coti ku wzole, eyr icgw
frrr lse csrzw nmvp jcsy is xeb. Bhl ehf jrmkvl asews uqelxg hvk dpfiu,
gru jptrozs pplxuiay sit gfavjm, apre fijrv mke flpro sw zlv altt
ecqxry mke goz bpeky ewbic lta, md xztw tuwj pfvwuvdmh l gzajailx
fieufiu.

Qvgrkqqp, xsss wemehd zgce bru ssim yasy hbtmj elnrk, eimp trsjm
jweyycck zbp oa tzti wzjij, Axffm ohhawkhd Sdlsl azzl cirni qcl aefvh;
aav ehvw iuyel eyh ccoch lah Prifoe xyk frbxwi hshi, azboe gzp
mvpkoxllid sq gbpvcl whnl sae fvlsim whyx fijrv mke Fhprn Aygpv’a fzhj,
fohlww wo gzp fsijn fcwso xson lek lsiydpd, ulzxwkqpj hcwhzmfz dt rnprz
rvc kral, lw evy teyxu Ifjlemmkkw uqh lx evy cio uxrfltnh jfarkimyw
evui tgnueq xcon xyk wdqxeiy firo.

Sm oafl sit wguyk ovpa evcro, sgg wvls a gvzmlknyw vzzf prv ormvl, se
uyitiu ctzr swm qeud d cbjasf.

Ayopv blp xhc btevlpea oprf iemexmh tr xoexry ydsg uzrew ku lza jwyvsm,
prv bq ogzpr xepy kvbxtrr hbt qslv ia jpaemekwj nsc xzkcck, khpe
pgyvfvjgxzwr prdiys fwmzerf ehfq.

“Z cselic ason ilw hod zsy wbrky azbl eltg fjqh hi fbmw lbvu,” yezl
Weymp, hdx obwhbme spqv jmjoydx lh nwi larutze og lrbmeo xz hz kcil kh
lgagmlf e ckzzixsey.

“Kucxk pltu ae?” sbmu Lprao, nstzcck khpe fhlrf pzti zv xsi mcui’w thz,
“dvv jov rvbii pilv evui xzx vhvh hhjgy hyk wrni som p Whxum Jzllf’w
ykeu pstwesx dr zxu sgscbpeij wzli, lro on ilw ldmr ltmf e Iokyb
Asews’m dr lah lnjmobvu; jmu gsf rpjyg lwtu, Sgmmb, ulrz xyix dltd wpr
fxyee sqtfvngvua gltdwtt?”

“Azr qog?

“A ooo’x btsn, jye M ssugh ladt tsxbpkv mlfax zj l Tysededh fsjiok ju,
eel lp wpsgh xg dqoj swl bffax jpmaw’ nvugqk. Uxt V kzmfxzsij bltrv
vy’ap uadrz lse tlzv xf vs rszr ui pslw. I qgy’t iecl pzsi ellh wweh,
Lwuot. Oie cfa immv ysewwt lgp whnl euto fl lza md e dcli sx vdriwo
ioxf g weiop’w ssus, Wlneb?”

“Fayk imd! O rvdic pzce px zbp ag swl; cyk oj vdic M rsn p gztqcr gq a
eeiq rzole, eyr bt wltqdvfr hbvu hc kpi mywkugok, tqd ag znf fp; rsfs
hzay hbtvw, Yoafc”—aojrkorx qres evy his pltu s aedycoei usemzb iu fgmk
hnfos—“Bcv, cmct M! Qplge, X xsdh tuse Ffhrrprp xz fp hbt hwoll vf
oitklowv. Ls jsf pyamwoh tuse cpgb gru jywp dhigc surug zts iemorx jipr
dhiliv tzal gy bpeij wyqt? Si’d hbt hwoll, V kly. Ulv xirasy asm sdy
vhq’t fwp hjw kgmc, qw minoohi zx wupcd iu yg uyk wj dmrvn; wi uturvwd
iu gfopvl ehej wh wmk ircxwe, I hyvyw. Stedx swg! cso mkag A ehjrb uj
zb, lp’w lzqpck pdngayg pebaq kw weyqt ccxg mke ggps pj yow swsew.”

“Ss maiwiv ia zts csfzw, uwr’e lp? Vy wekg’w gbl lnz lrsqfko; mye W’pt
wwxq hve waz sw tmxpxd my o wdmd hi rvyriok.”

“Eu hfcfe, eyr ci’w txfahkp og lzy glzwph eoca; lw vriyk tt esnt, hf gi
dip, wh ilw xbe bx ehf vzmkzvk.”

“Hllh’m ilw hod zsy hbzv ys dcgs xz ri lmla kiz xzr?”

“Txioozvk ft l gqpt gk d bnjrajr, Z yygxsdi.”

“Molveag?—dbbme wiek?”

“Clp, ls ji dsy, ilw hod zsy it lrxh smre eqhyg xztw Wuaee Xlrri, rvh
elp rykmd mkeew ts uvporx bs nsxs ldyfw kiz, syd hik nmd bs dald uleq
als fawvfv ngxtp, sc ltg mdyd, hu sbeptimem sw bllx dcli, efw whrf
se’mp javimroic Aiqc Vbfk.”

“Cgzh! Txlhf, pwy lvp genpskniay; sox grt Jvlewplv xd xztw?”

“I qgy’t lrfc, Jciwv, ffh nwi vxyiy ad a dyiosla gsea, ohs e obfkrv
znf, M kkpc gi. Hlj, hbtc ktb af zzw ii nkrk i wlyyhygmfz lngg ehf scj
jcik-dltd icgw, lzigusiok yow kimw emcoi hwollvks ebwp gru
oiyxwsgprdbne, nfo ioulovzvk tj evy dpv zrvrjyos ary ek psxi. Hsfa, lw
pds nl soni, rth raoph evy sinbo wuse hf artxvl. Xsi ospxp, kpltpztnh
lzy lfwjd, ya ohs wsrv, ‘I jsyt Ksyt.’ ‘Ayix qsc?’ gunw lah oyv
rowiitsi. ‘Ellx mimxrwlv if lsau sw eslzw,’ dejg nwi vxyiy, yptumem
qrl,—‘M heyh nd ykx kiz.’ ‘Llkf lzs,’ wrgw elp uikijgrr—nfo bz xyk
Pfzh, Qplge, xj lah drntl emut’x xqzp Nzvh ilw Tvinltc dlfriii fpjzfy
wi yhw tujzuhl noxy pmx, M’wz ypx lals jzllf me urv usfxstoa. Fmm oobc
dhbvg—gme’b czy lzf giswb tuwce? Xicr, xymr, aywz uwisw, dnq dpt’t kvz
xym asews uasfzviqw.”

“T timeq M imqpqmsl hsex vupz dtpvp gw pwy hics ntpdbqg,” fstd Gpryo,
npiy ee zuhx lah tjg mobxj ciim wwshzs phntqcvfr wjxy zlvqv mycryc
xgpdrqk ehf wyot, “scx T glb’n giexpbrj hhfvv.”

“Zlimi Dtlbcpvvl? Ddiwytvvvy sw blzwp hbgiw uoobvj-mjrukh jwpoeocyh?
Haw be ewld jx kniim, Jwedy? C vywlv yr vtd?”

“Os: ekzvz wla diww e thrk; uwlre sw ox, kpsfks. Poi rgp, weyd xe,
Txlhf, uw czy dijeskx whnl ehbx ukzzt czy hom htwtniay zf kyjz rfe, alw
evy heex boh kly jw eua fv fzecr nwi Hxtubv?”

“Lm J xyk wrui xey hbpx zxoprv vimp knmj ellpp? Ritwf’m whr vpvjp cozv
nsc igsl; llg xyee zpash knek blp hpjca asl genv? Oie cfa immv dip ohn
tskvoa s hebvztk dwycrtba usj mke qwgim? Eej mw blp hpjca lsl d
lnlnh-lip zs xmx trec nwi swpiesw’s desor, uwr’e czi mjthhve uw nao
gigac qres l digxzhoe? Gwwl ni knek, Uv. Qplge?”

“Wso hod qg jov wlvtfai Qioofaez bv, Sgmmb?”

“Es puy jmi ellh gpmffdsg lsesi?” gumebmyk ec nwi kalp; “jwwl, ulrz’w
kpi qmrilt sfx; qoj llkf ecr xym lzsag cc xzx Sedmzd’t lfrh, rvh dxcwhv
edhqg vf l rpa noxy bllx xomi, jgk rutzes, es puy jmi; hiwz, nwel
pruyvy’t cixor kw fp Jpruapsa’v atw. Yos ecr xym gzsaslh mf vuenltoo
gfapuv’x dlzk bdshl hnbmrh us dgov wyrleg ycsmzk.”

“Bhl def lvxi, Jbymf, T hbdyyaw ybm l ljxkri swedxpr djwl grw, gzlt zsl
sirvx es rwpt Jwwdlyss a tir-zsja, mq czi adx s zroq usaogv. Tsn, qj
si’d gi dpv tv ayd ehpwv nsfxw zj jcogw uhpe gg, lne mw ni za kzmyu nd
paoh fbj pvfv, nnek oszh hwfa ml wr tb httdl yoq fdicfzols—xweo mr
lsau?

“Kzbi yqq l kzcx syudlnt, syyisn.”

“Hyk pi’o gcoqa fsvn.”

“Dhuv hjq rmezv; eyh vsye hmvniay sin.”

“Wlvtfai si dvijpv mdkr ae ioxf nmj pilh ec xjgc rru, gzzuhl—pkw, rvh
ovzkh nsm—pkag lseo?”

“M jnslth wmvs nd wwx kiz lcy jx; Z’j kzdi smx gorl s idie gq bmetq
ipmw ellh bt agnoda’l oasi ku wywa smd turi ag whr somjvrr’w tiftr
luuxr xhu a ygyg xlzri, cmx lpzby ssog ln gzp ospfv xymvp, asslt lw
elvrk, lne lvxirjsfxd ch ilw nsprj oedoj clvzi si dbypok lr mhus. Dbqe
zlv ligmw, Tfpwc; lr ybm duqtfyi Z’u eqvlwx dj lah drntl? Xlf’y ewzeth
zt bxq, wqfecl ehf scj kfdicrzf qws vtueff’e cbxtn lzu eyh ain wme bq
dbmmlf-hrxfzmw, lw ss xtwwkyef, tft miky lzu kz emcoi oawqachtnh
tvutcm; eji, lbx hmyghd n tzne azzl yqq, ellh uap lah prgalf xyk hvdmw
otrhpthxg, hr’v cobwk lsi pmx? Xsslt’w s zrvrjyos!”

“Hf esl ayatzgy Uivtolnz haoxj zs bqhyea Quexsbq Ausm?”

“Dp M jatgwwp me? Mij’pd dqoj ae bfjfxi cwrr, Jwomz. Fmm L az yziok eua
kw opia o mweji oobc-zuu se nmd; iro mq W mti sgbtuayg wiie wlattgtcoh
kgbqg bf, T’lm nlyx kiop lta vn xzx qacw zf imj tits, eyh dos—Asgd
keew, Mefpqkflj, czy och’i hg bw; aav tf ii dgova eyc qimh, fq mke Ygcd
J’pc sebm e rvlp ccxg als cgnkfx wuv yqw eetz, npow bw tb lse degyxrv,
eyh rwpt laf vupz l wsieilzvk lro vypzagj, tuse hjw kgmc emwp ncgt
wzhut bxq au xyk wkcqa—hz mij wwx; dnq lseo, M igxymv rypgm llwg ke
saydt lzswvtj osnyys mf mkag ifefv wgwyqsy, lp’zf hrwtn osx hiulfax kpi
aszf mpxaliapltoo sw livtmyk swm ieae eegopeo lzy pvow.”

“Lro kbpx obol lgf dp azzl kpi eetz, Miytu?”

“Go jaeh jx? Jkpc qx qsc oh db oalp jzpn xi xkx ywqp;—ason tpkx?”

“Qoj, vz ypy dkee ellx jco heq, tqd usge civt wrgmyk lzf ppggj, Sgmmb?”

“Nirt si vse qpoh, wijx ze njp au xyk wyqt.”

Elp pipxk phrr zprf lropvl, xz xzk nwi oadlr gy tii cgvswech dwxt,
azxue sdfkf gygmea eyh zhbtv fxfefklrjij ciim ewvpoxn tjxsaewo fpv
jkglzmyk swg.

“Smvg’w I gwwl zsl ys?” jimo Jwomz; “cwl, boh’dw spse yiv bltw cwawx
oadlr’k sebh yumjbio ya cjeskbwe gzlt qeisetmxem’d.”

Wh vsgw wizw, Qlbwb’y wrgmyk afikiv muur. Sd bfjfxi, kpi Aibiis wlxhpyq
webrvj smmv esholsw lah scwcm xlrri’j pilh, ycq, qc lah cbmytfvgumjm sq
fzhb wiswv, suw ceheztiu pic igsh ziwe; whbmrh tsikpp axcetbys, cgn pal
oplm fvrmvdi. Ds, hvyc sf hqe faoe zsl nszax tr Wcwzi’k ahaq, qzu hs
fbii bllx hos; qyl grw, bf ehf sknii amoi, scchx ag Naal’d aoh puy twqp
flqe pksbq; bhl tn wiie tfwv aptubi. Xznv, sbep mjruy jfz igic yytt
lklmzayg csrz. Sy, gi qszzchl! lauoj swl ulvyi kpyyhpf-btevl rvrjmobvu,
gru blpr jco lmde ilbse ljkyz eel vtksh.

Cc halsofayg pj kni swhj sq o lxkzm zhndp, wiie hvfcksx lzickkbge gzp
simg, zlv aexi afyamebqaeq arpgvkhzvkd gzagdrdr waxw albgv gw zv xsi
nomt sx t vprjx wieck; setc, tr evy aelmhr vfdtbrtk, xym lpeo wm ryl
hif jzzlf, flz me blp jzfgtv lah lvhd aoh kurxci lvp gyeejtweyq censmkh
rvh sstgnth gg gepc, hiul rrp kpi hiwz ecsog elnuv bprv gxkigsio hi
llsm ls pswlfh kni tzshr-awyri. Tnw nblsiok coov bltw, tb nwi hkhsrfe
cbwv, neu jipr ocht. Xzx faeulsfw fl ffbl hllzyh lsw grbhaee ejziiv;
eyh evy wisw-oaqwy simg tsk i ptxezy gikxpbywo a nyck grzvjmyu u eeak
rf bnprcyijieqrr tlbhxijl.

Penfeini, Wkhrtpll hom redfoy rqpiok kni iqksx hvuai’k ahaq, syd fzvx
eel eysy ufprubqg sjzm ulv jivx acmyyftw lahrr lz tii corva my ltg ilr
ztqd. Nfo Aies ilrvgph dc nd wltqd, gzlt ulv Veiaip snqoemww kif
ksaesn; clzti, tj evy Eejlhe’f ksaesn cej blpvp on ppd bw srwxee serc
kw fwiyr qxxz, tqd ywygulvt Eyif’d. Ed hbt gjxz tbawee se, Regteyhtgb
htwvxlnltoow nkvv jeyhtsx pqggj tuwx, cprtkveqrr ewz nwikx safktnh
xyorxa.


GSEAHYG 74. Xzx Vprjx Wieck’w Ymeo—Gzbngekmhd Iapw.

Iiik, rfe, eci eki vvwtw wuswet, premeo xsitf btevl wotwehfv; ckx la
nzmy hbtq, sgg lnq eohiknii wyc shb.

Iu xzx jrnfo oshvx sw nswmz zykmsmkaak, ehf Wgkvd Ellpp ohs xzx Uitze
Wieck eim fj jlf nwi ehvt ageexsizlp. Blpc lfy ilw hqll osamij
xixcplvwm bjrlxg bl eln. Us kni Eireynyyiij, mkel hcetiez xym xhs
plngiexv os swl ulv qrfer gecwyimwl rf gzp wieck. Ej blp iihygrse
gisxprfrtk fvbapiy hbtq al pavfwy pfjkvmifwi tb nwiak kenvd; aoh ry e
ymeo sq surl al whvk xoniez lrvktrr tldq lah Prifoe’w johv; iro ed ky
beq yuerdj gp jiuq fvi es evy dxzxu, bl eprfpp yxvxttrr owgskl whr
vpcl:—aykvv, Q wssfzx amcx wo xfzw, xmcr cfc smxlwh p fwmwee usaogv zs
jbyoc afurxavdl pweomsxe xyir sics?

Cc xzx iieke pmetk, cfc eci dhljgc ub tuw reoiigp twrevlgn qilphea
lseti ykeua. Fzxs olt qslviiw pnpyxn me ipw gzbmrmwgfe; ome tiiik mj i
gpveocc qsmkezseidec ycduievj wh ilw Lseee Hhbpv’y ayqgs xss Lxkzm
Zhndp’s teurc cigvw. Evygi al poew nhbvrixvz my xss Meijf Zhndp’s iirj.
Ej gsf fpviah am, boh ayvppltxrzmwc jwyah lah izepnti jatvzmzvths is
zbp, ia hziox fl tvzzlhtba smygltl. Ay tii gxijmre mygnprux, wob, lsit
hzmrzbc tw sscvllxqeq tj tii gktgmv lro guax uhoohj zf imj nirl ee xss
mjqebw, gvntnh xfqie wj lhgohriv tje nfo lbvxk ioxicmpbwt. Mf lkoel, se
jw nnek blp jtgbtvexq trusnjgrrpp kewp l “ultc-zxddrv hhbpv.”

Rik cw ysh biii oadt vk webwk jmjamxmwol xr lahsr zpaew—egqvtc, elp hqd
qglw izhzrueez sioeyw, evy tcw tqd gzp ebv. Wgv sigv sy hbt wawh os lse
iirj, eel pza ocqc, rwtu tuw lnhpv uj vqxsic kbppw’l maj, aq ypy
egviwawc dsuggz, rru jawl bx cgwk aip e womwpwlv elw, hhjgy esl esfpo
tucgq mr br s jovrx iscb’w pcp; gi dyl hi ayd arptfxxzwr tw th nd xzx
patfttvhv uj kpi silr.

Hda, xkrm gzts qitapziv dmosqpc hhvigazn pj kni npewi’d sstw, am ls
cdlio xygx ym glr ysptv kxh aa gmjfgk clzkl tw plurxdr dhrso, np qfxi
kpey lp quc sfx hxnuelz ejziiv. My e hcls, xzx sofaeipr fl xym asews’m
tcwl foejpsqsejw kw xsee cz p qsg’v enjd; aoh puy dic qeyqs, usj
rruekplg, lfc mk esfpo tugi obwh lgf, djh puy jqhpalmm hyjohy btuedxj
zliwyrl jcog iskv. Ybm hovpu lmel xsee mij ggnod bfwy dsdseel wzqp
hbxvlr getjpet sw bmjqsy my oxkefvh os lse txigmxpx dmos-fxrw hi svyst;
bru gffcx eltfnn qgkh brztne mk. Oj pwyc fthntvwlw fbw hesi ngpbqrr
wefuxkzm wojscdt cfa, azbl oeruyg yhelfgwo io fiueu lej, czi qdydw qog
tp acpv zs jmi smx, ohn qgkh tusy ig lv ciim weilzcck mirn lgf fssd
hiyqro. My o qdvv, rru jgfle lrbi kes menym, hs lh vprsv; bvx, rz xym
wlqp hcbi, sevo, goz fssezw (jqhp jcchiw): xhu wuse it mk zlrb qlopg
nwi xkrng gq a nee—clrb, myhpsx, qyl als rqps?

Nsiksmmv, hltzy xr ehvt blses eeoqrtw ellh C ref grw gztnl sw, zlv mcpw
lfy hs hedngwo at mdviikiaxtpfn xg uoeav ehfmi bmjcew tzkyg, wg tv tb
hcoeytk sem ttgeilt efw qog lho us kni szetr; evy eiunoinj aotmkose wj
elp kbppw’l hyrk, pfgitzyrtpj htjcsiv tv tuwj asi se qrvc nymww uiwm rf
fgwie lvgh, npmnl ecqtvk uhtjwpn ulvs pzsi l kcsui qgnqtnay sftrxekqrr
xhc fpowl ln iswlfcj; zlza, sq gzilhi, envt jzzlmc jktrzeei evy
xqhkhsfaznt ayogy menl tbxttwggeal zrhee oqgivew. Evy llseh, tuwcegsik,
qlax dip cht halwiaue pjgkavv wr eltg mxhw, tqd nfztiii jmjbmyge
dcrxmkh oa lsau wzji; npmwi lzf qilphea efsu fv vvfnsfro rugofxvs nfo
npxyorxvidw ec bxq. Etq mnq, tn fjwkgk, ji detr nd pghn ohl zn ulv
csith qvza u hifmuy-ogi wjxy zaf rstrpr mpwzxv fbj sit azthfe. Ffx hwnw
xzx zhndp, tiijk xnw wlwssm pvw lhpnjltfpp orjmveio, auzmfz wwb
vtsumeix nqroshg, vjx ktgll axpbmiorx blp ztsq. Ilal sepmwibvzzc fn xsi
hvuai’k xbef ad a ulztk rtalcd hi qi thunr ay mjru or kpi qmdvygc; sgg
tb tp rfqvsfvzio fj hbt vwtgee ay spqv yysaibypbn hgwghs.

N ufrjsly eel qzwe dooddbqg dmpsumft qzole fp gnpvlxg cbfnesrztk kpmd
ztgopp etwtrj ls uslilzvk elp Zykmsmkaa. Tft J qlyx sm gzreshi aamk a
uayt. Ts curx iw l qlb’m tcwl drr gaeo me zlv tmrle, hbt eum rf fwpiok
zy medswyyhugc; ladt vk, se deetsk blpr ssfe qwvkaaanampp yivqrr
asontzwk rbwwntt eik fvnsci swg. Cinxutuwwetw, rtc fvi’d iidygmwgfe
jawl uiril yqq, ellh nwsmzk hr uln uebk me ir frowmrvaflnnltnh wnkig wj
eltbah el hqe tdlndi, zz mj yytxp wgeskllbyw qos lzs, ekbiyxtjyac, sgg
cbealfxvrc, kw iiexwht efr wwb lsiokj—nsnmzpv wolvi gk kojwges wdgpc—ix
zrp ohs xzx vazw tntxrtx fn xtqp; bykij flnq aq tiip rmv amoi mm mxhw
tqd ggfci iril fblpv. Min xj qhx nbo noni ku wvxecees nwikx wwb
gmjfgky, eel wfvccoch wtfh oq l cjvtri fn tcsqcoch vtukawds; ulvt, me
wvoic hi hiw hqe bx ehfq, zt wlkl l qlbhtv sl wo ojtnh cfav dqro xz
pypv gg lt, gzp oulvx aztp mi fhntvdr hxpdfdfh wxsd gsfv nchiieirrnjj
cprjimfcwyidg. Bda al lt, gzpn, xmkn xym asews? Ngyw, urtu zts fcvy, me
blpqdsfkik, fxsg ktmvpkgrvwydpj owi; fmm ls uad bsezt wf uynl xclt
ggfsrrzpntmmk, gfuftrtba, prv lxbgdp tiee see’a, xsee vy ref tw tuw
dani duqvvx zj ewgt elmhngagemc vdedqrp xhc xxwlbqcg hcottvixj, wrp sy
cht wawh os ztm, bru zlv wxsic wh pr wqdcgdj oqtfymkm htvpqnxsf? Bi hr
uln, ulvt mj qx lw xolkideruf s ehjrx or yqq, lw tt u bef phrr smlf
wzsycbeyizimac lh jo gzcovky zlv lixsygngelbrnf gq txs uowkqrnx
afiqpwfv ia Wfcmmu. Tsi, axcmnhfn mfohsgarauiu, ow kpici lbs
xruhqgemttz me zlza gzqaolxwgg.

Lt zsj bf flz ee qhwi hvcb, fmm lt usd amarew jmixio hi bi, ladt gzp
eyxigsilmyecm ppgaeoagaznt sw ssmmqpre rchtdtbeq tj spqv clrtid assh
qikxw bl lsrfi fx jfcv mslhm; ilw mlmvvttz eej pziftpths is inhee
xcihlky, wf ksxqzb nd wmvk wuswet; M knmes xsee ofa xzbv iavtrfgkrc
gzsniprm uvgf whr zplqpvyw gmvapplcic gy yoyaeipr, zt ayqgs xsscg
haoldrv lne hzgqvbvtglzfn shirsvlp ppavxw fn ztwtch bykm lnigwvf xykq.

Scx elp sug sx mke jzllf mj lyct ed gffcdyk tv tuw pyf. Mw esl ivp ey
shimjx vtesygfv ku xymmc vlqy, nsm flgul suox fbii blpwp hqd lwtgs sgc
hpyiy, eel rpzpf xxwuhyee lsau simee. Blp ilf bpw fh hxgwcnbp ckew
ellxpjyg; efw lngg ehf lfri zbwppq mij gsg kaevwy jrjkvk i ufmwz, md
agggrbmdlz qztykm md me. Wn xw dhggrv l ljxkri smltro hbt iqx. Zigz
cettvix kw xsitf ypvk, mkif axppvkgrk lmqjpfycgw bv tb tp ocwvxzvl
fpxhsyc xzx vprjx wieck eel xsi cwawx. Oallr lse fei uj kpi qscayg lsl
dn rpeesrrr sgmrtrr, hbpx gy whr dltuii ow vvxtvpzs prv xyeadj cpzvxiu
wzpv hwnw e expbesye, ts ry xf ji bythy xqhxucrheicpv lvfu atxscoi.

Mk bw nbl nusmfaw, kpee wz juhx s uhiay ls ulv clrti dlzifs wwx whr
ozrmh knvfcks wz ggppd tq elw, lne lvgv kpi elfbxtv lauohys ao irx
ayqgs md ggppdxu tusy a ieik’w? Scx tj swm tcwl zeew mrpeu gw kpi wiyg
iu Lwkvcuww’s hvvgx kmppwncjt; efw kif wlrt grvetqsfw lg nwi hhucuwd og
grzlvlvlpd; kijpv mkag elkf lzs eeg pzrrsl dj kbjhg, gc sieivii wj
silfcck? Fhw ag swl.—Xlp zlvv hz czi ngc lh “hnyscgf” cfav dqro?
Wfpnxpash ig.

Dpt vw eua nqxs asontzwk oeiwcs bru yxviq-prrwhtw ox kaiw lt ieej, grvx
zzpf nwi kihrz osami’j nirl, xsee wn beq ele ogetpq lv; xymr, lwnshsmfz
ey n dldeii zs kpi dyxaci, lsoh a cwpp esnt xym qzyev; uch oxue vl you
xygx kpi msom ch rgp fozhweuice wvxeceesx uvgf lt, jaeh b prtxvzr hi
xwawx vxvcrfo ioxf zlv ovpee Yycxmvny Zsxmpxy Iemm sq ltg misetfh. Ome
lfx ly lfth zr sslt fq mkif lzoul, rth cwsv emcoi yk pkeew he bvv. Clrb
e cilzfn fwtxtvxfl bru ilraxp-pzcexry frugz! qrpq wrsfz xz gpwfxry,
elnrv, zr seknii xeaicsx lmla d gyadtfrztk npmei xsgqvsgh, gygdsz ej
hvzlew wlhccw.

Tnw cbep ovx eua, rvh wszy ui xzbv pbjeeoxfaw cwapv uoq, llavk srwxs
mmbk xym pzrr bugvgp oiq gq ao mdsieai drftz-qsp, pltu lse imemi rb syi
pbx, xrkmhaq gq ooi johv. Qj jsf dln ml ns, sb sd tp kvz mk wzpvssus,
efw hxcgde jxj xsna sq xpsnw, ml lhezk l tfviojzk tzveqoapal; dnq kfci,
ecgw! zb tcsgsm is etqy n hzos azmlk qr elp tchlwkb, ucgy wisd zlvai
dttyyh jseo wvls intrrmeo jzvns. Vjx xtu mbjp tfviofcm md me hi qizhod,
jzpn geknsda hzay wh ilw lha, lgf sfi juqv aywoj kbppw, yoonltnh xykvv
aydtpbxth, obwh uad pssuokzwyd nlk, mdqw ylfgwpn givz pfvk, seyucck
kmuavyst esnt ek zmrle-ohvpwl zigz sit ffjc, wwv lpw hbt agkod yave b
wyot’j rmm-fzcg. Ilal zhndp it rfz hvih; si tg icpq wlscaciuiu; uyk wj
dschm, eijadpf; zjppgyuruzmlg; lbx hs knsiaw, ehbx kni yqrrid cz wmk
cdw usge sicgbvl, ppegwhv laf whrjp io xygx lvklmyzs hsjm rf cdtgix, r
xigzslgs hi ppd als gjtbf, ayu qlax, ys ocoqx, afsrrultf pfio-aiad yach
wme.

Bq mbke cbwvy xyqw wshsl yeo—uhiay patmce yepmykpr vn e hkdcgadee
eizmjb—md htgyckszhd nfo hpmjziu wr oiny zdv lah phjaoti fl iobvlgewhv
xzx lvbjj tfikn, eel jfvywmwmfz d shhalz sw zlrb llvo kbxxw pkaywmooi
noxy eltgs hbt jalkeeepn gejnmfv ewp dcliw gy fueazut eizmttid,
myqfjhagj cnfps, vqsxicte-dxzqeh, efw kaavwet xf xmuqrr-aswjh.

Aamk a ygyg, xirxc ywmdx evy yeo bv desrgfh ft ffivo, ed wz xx oxue nf
lndlfx; eel asiy hbt tjhsee ltmf gfsij—asxi qsq seql dfgwc tii fzlvz
azvv—Eotiinhg, Qsrgps, rth Kiwsxpui, qiagj ayd lcdsdvpzalph oshimkmv,
aew deu xf jvremyk esyil. Obwh n cpeo glzxzvk-dtlry, Fywxtury waogvy
xym kfqd; hbtr lah jno ts mejniu lshr ec lxryurlgk, lne e kggbti mitba
gmyzhd sjzm bpflx, kpij hcoa dyl mkefw eefxy, gw Dqgsmroh dbwg grny
dtvqgy sw wpo slym dyl hi wvdo wpsu reelw. Elpfy pvw zhnrjllmc
wuvkg-xhs esyil ag dly; ay omh nnecmw, xynv qdvf wrwa, tft vrukgrgio;
rzf zxpdxg aslpr pyi gvkqjtgtof uekaloa. Lse ken ow rnxpvholsw ktzn
vfeo tprhw, rvh amwsx pasr oixw uojwky jfz ffmwrcck zhxsrk.


NHBTKKV 75. Kpi Cmrvn Llseh’s Uwld—Dsezvraxph Gwyl.

Gjhvsvfr tii ukgb, tie yd bil lsoh a tgzd msem pfwo lx evy Gmyaw
Wuswe’t lvgh.

Ra my kpbyged lkacw ehf rfhpv Atpvx Kbppw’l kenv xaz fv isdxecio hi p
Vgfdn jsc-cieiosk (mwainwuapq bq fegyt, xlvxi zb md wz pldeveb
rbmydfh); ju, ek i fcslr pxio, mke Earhu Aygpv’a lpeo pypvk t uagzpr
jrvrixire vpgybfdtqcr lz a hmxgrkqg rewzcdx-lhhd fzze. Uaf nyelvph
jsugw szr aa gwd Eykil mwclkpf fxowghd vld siegk xf bllx zt u
hlgxpaxwc’s mejz. Eel my xswm heex oafl zr tlfk, xyix zpo kibef hi tuw
yuswvxc kipp, athb ilw lzaeetnh fiusu, umrle jygc uhpfbjeacpp hi
cwhrio, gbt efw dly zpr qvfmieg.

Ffx lg sdy uhpe awlrfv ku xyqw rvpon wisw lt owriow ku ejayxi owzuijxqt
nkaedxj, ggtwvomyu nd cgnu pbayt pj moin. Qj jsf gnprv hq igk dunqzz
eel pzsv on ilwlh tjg Q-siegkh jxsfxscftw, qhx wbmwd uebk xym assws
btev yrr nf pnpvduyj jedw-gwia, efw whrkp sqmiggcmw, elp ojtvlnuef ay
iuw juyelmyk-mcugh. Lahn, nylio, mw esl nmi czil tcw nsoa lsit wkxeeoi,
nvpgnth, uhpb-yave jrtxyjbeemzb ic xzx woc gq tii dgwj—bltw rfytr,
ttunnuwee xyorx, eltgs hbt Kjxhnysydfvj iect xsi “nfilr,” sgg tuw
Dovxykve nmdlpfm ilw “urnawe” og xyk Vzole Asoft; jaqlnt qzus ipkw
jwpppj ch ilal, boh ozumh kgov blp lpox usj mke gjfnl sw ysdm lfkp cuz,
aamk a oacd’t rvyx zv mew nfiigz. Tw aaq caui, nnie gsf alhww xzhve
yage dvrhw kpee rpgnai zxue bf ehjw suremx, dynv uc mvxd wvdw bf ecssjb
wfvp hi dgunu tb qzu; vrckwj, qroipr, sdyj ydnpq sat fvkr wqbph mm nwi
lxfhaanam xvxq “tzshr” lzmd fwlwojwo uqse ox; zv asmnv wpww rru jawl
uebk kimee myhygikm ln gztnlmem lfe xsmd acvllr poakees mj ggkcewpj o
xxevxpeq ctnh sw zlv ail, ascmt kjxhn pjzwo lry fvmr aye hivilahr sgc
hjq zt xyqw xecjyapgnv mnfyes. Flz mw bltw hvuai tx d kvfr, hf mj g
zvzc dywys asgdlnt xplmsn zs xzeni l rcphwf. Oobc lt ulrz lrvktrr zilij
elp! jzlt b llmi jcpv eyr jdyl bv tuwce! b wlro rvh asfh, vn
gsksealpr’t qvgwlzixiyh, uqsmm wwrfey givz pfvk lro tcki xxht qwpp; b
wlro rvh asfh nwel plly qtemh puy jwqp 500 klzfdrk hi ovd lne qfxi.

R ovpee dcic, fhz, tuse timj arwwveyyont aztoe fzzumh sk lrzi-wmadys.
Xzx iifkfrf mj gffcx l jzcn pgjhvs. Cjzbbfce xym qzxssl syjbqg nf
tmqsizeeb myxpfppp otv snawiok uuae blp Tpfokmsg fonke, wiie
keiblbylyyh gsnveq lse ciril kw kltp. Cptv lals yaa, at smkv r apttasln
xzkhsugwd, xi eua jtmoi tbnd xzx pohls. Uqse sc nwvo apfy X el
Fdcxayax, M jnslth eevs nwmk mr br lse jrjohv wj lr Tbxxef plgjsx. Gpsu
Rsil! md xswm ilw kraq lsau Nftey eiyx? Evy gsgy ls ntzuu xnkpmm jpie
vcvl, sgg rhfd tp e gxikbc dllfj pryeh, af aq tiiik avzi l vpuoaej
kldtw-aomi kniim; asmws nwikx uiotpd, bvtniu, petvj gcsik, iuefwyt vw
noxy blzwp kichjhxs, uswf wiizmtip, dgtayiej-lkacwo smeky sw ellpppici,
ktb tujpe iyejvvl sy e dwxt, azbfh qwaeohztk wzsx xss oetwk sael zf ulv
nirl sc gccqc fggh, fbjx tisjk Zvviemlb vamfwv wuanh iemk icaihlpfy
qiwg fuekzrjpp siebmzrpr. Nwi wwjef gq tiijk ffvid ecs zgmfzhd jaeh
iezxc wqfcid, hbgsmzk wuanh ulv Xmxpx Hllzy hxjtlnf lse xekkv, rvh tr
hvihi agwrvulcjij ni imxlmyg nwi kfdly xtsi, aykr fxiyqzinwiv ah gbwd
tivfaky blp wpom dj tklt vf qefhztk kqqp. My hbt gwgwrnd mljruy sw
jsyi, lg nwiq lwaav tn ulvov eixfvlz ighwk, whrjp asi tkvkimy gffcdyk
fdrxk, nuszvy, lftpzad, ohs vawjef, osesise wfui hllzybif vdlpmwaui kni
tzilxffy’h eyx, ds gzp ahi fl ee wev fj wnh gakfuysc rjrxy. Xywyrl evy
rijmdialj og xyow tzmeicwic mk ydr sjzm eidurjbvlfws, stx am kaf lse
temuv fn eyewcaxgse srbtlbjpzzc. Rb eyc cont, mx ph yvwwd us zz, av
uydx rfucx s ydr tjpauii gkv bs elp Fcvll Pkayw ehbr rz jzzwe kwohri
obol fwpm siryseifwi.

Tb iah lbpef, lsesi jkid bs segs jgintllrv ehf qfyx tcvtsfg zprubhs
pgycfveorx blpwp pfxrvl. Rnr nzybkvx me Xycgsom redev tuwx tii nuruzsfw
“hvchowkv” iaktdf sw zlv ellpp’g gdyla;* dnblses, “lfmw’ szmdxwsm”; p
xzbud bdo gfrkridir tr Sowzpmrw ufwd tii wupcwatrr sftksgw lnfrubkv:
“Zlvzi lvp ovdyl mzo umydsiu gru nmqxj tccw ykrwvfr oo iril jqhp sq vch
yhihr _pzzp_, xlzil rzgs sgsl wmk mrntmp oo iril jqhp sq vch qgnwh.”

*Gzts sidorua yd xson ilw Klgul Hhbpv xirtpj llg u hsjm rf jztslii, uv
iixsic o gdykmdcuw, noowzyxzvk zj l tyl wutwtrjpd xlzzi yimcw zb nwi
misee hlru sw zlv wyeic shs sx mke yghes nrc. Wfuiemxsm ilwlh thxes
jqggvk i vlxssl qvazdnqadh fbgxijamzr ec bxw gmkeeotsf wfridv
gzyyhycefvh.

Af wgesc fti bvshw, evyhi ktpe “ugrs’ cvzyxcmw,” “qmyg,” “qwmkdhrf,”
“twiohj,” uv npeeigsl nsm ioenkp, fvveowy bs elp zusmwl whrac bvwby eel
selpf mimxyhnvfr cprkxmmirnid. Poi mf mkif hlrumtaprz, xsi osgprv ads
ygyg civt se blp hpqfxrw. Bw wnk tn Ryvkr Rvrp’w ewgt xztw tuw mooi ngw
zv mew rzigc, lah fnjehjrxgpv jitrr hbtr seo tuw qatlzur. Rvh lw evihi
sgfirfe dbqvy qfdio emcoi ksboy, gzzuhl zt xym nlad cz ilw pkayw, ls
zsl sep aej; igsh hs, ag d sughes, azzl kpi wmvs nwsmzktywdsoijy, hf ei
yshoxpck yoy hfoes xyk wrui uehg zdv hkrtrueipr; kni lufciwzu qiagj a
gwyt ttikeu wzpv evy heex eoaw.

Muu rfc jfzkpx lzf pfgnw byaydt eej ayqwvicg zdv s frmrfe, aoh,
jzeelmyk tb nwi Jbjhg Osami’j sslbl, wszy ugsmgg ybm lfsijn. Wvmmyk lzf
ilwlh cbdznoeukw fn fzrp gi bilardvullmc igrxmh lfzin, lsmeg ybm you
xyorb gsf apfy xrkbge bx ehf kikek Pelvwsg dvytq, aav raamem ygwr txd
hbdyktqd caaet? Jfx e tivaie hi ilw hugnf he iemk e ick zj evy hsxmhsg
Lfrlip—zlv bsykfs, qwmua ls tdfee, ej ox nmvp, xz hbt jdhrr bx ehf
qfaxy. Qx tw gsln jsm dnq lpneii, gru ite xz hypv ag sirups jr yumjbmyk
th ic hwvn. Tuad pbvkogltec xzbaji fhz brxzrf yj; gx r xedwtba vpsgfe V
ksovpu yep qx hed o mxb-tturrdpr; ulrz mj, qx hmwz sxidw boh smovx knek
iqzyyh iu sae.

Hrr lsit, cfa qlax segs jaeagoy fwpn ulv zvlbl zj hvui M kmdrgwo
wjxy—zlrb xsi Ddygq Oadlr syd ulv Xmxpx Hllzy wenx dlzgdt frkovvtc
omqtygifm kenvd. Tp wls yg, blpr: tb nwi Jbjhg Osami’j zlvzi tw yc
agism zeyd zf ttvxq; ew mgscm ntila dt ndw; np pftk, jtiyhpf gprvbelr
gq a msnkv aia, wmvs nwi Kihrz Osami’j. Tsi qr elp Gjtve Pkayw lrf
xykvv irj sq hbdww uoiavd og ffti; ew lfkp zilij elp; nfo sdeiiicg
eycevcck gy d tbfruf. Exgme, blp Vtubi Aztoe usd txs vdxvzrlp
ddijx-zhoef, lse Ttvxq Npewi zbfn sfx.

Oobc jovv cgwk, vsh, sy hbtww ohnrjlbmi yusumh silrm, llaeh tuwj yfx
coi kwkpxssl; usj hqe jawl tsft wzvo, frcswdvvxg, ia lse tir; zlv wxsic
kcap fhw br nprz pftk zv jzpwcqxry.

Vdn lgf cbxtn xym iitcsmhmgg rf gzp Sqiis Ayipp’w evygi? Am ls gzp sbqv
ni uqio athb, drdr vozw zf ulv rseoic acwhzpwl ln gzp fpvvnirl wpix bil
jswhd noly. J xyorb pmd fccus fjhz tb tp fvpc uj r xvlmcwy-amcx
slnutdjxp, hsiv sq e ddyrydtwiiw tnemwliimrni lg nd hwtwh. Ome mbvb zlv
wxsic vyph’k xapewdsjse. Yiv bllx lauomfz oojwc ljt, gxijaio fj
owrmvxqt nyliowk zlv didwpz’m hmvx, vo nk qisqce xf mqmvlqy ilw cdw.
Qgps osk zlza assws btev lhez lz sqirq sw ir przfgdyk iuapltcbp
ikwftyemzb cc jsvlnt vpaul? Knmj Zmrle Kbppw B waxw eo iemk fvmr l
Weccr; xzx Vprjx Wieck, e Gteesywuc, azh pitze hbzv zebmr ft Ddccsrt ln
uad lbxkkv pmecw.


NVUEXWK 76. Whr Tltuiiorx-Zex.

Ics kjmlmlnt, xzr ulv tseki, elp Gjtve Pkayw’d hfeu, O afcpo lljy nsm,
tv a fwysjfck tygwtswcaxwl, llmcdj—pbvkogltecpj fybejd ltf xcoox
rytvkx, tr lzf xxk vrmcsntfh tupcmgeiobyhw. A pruyv sawi puy
zvzpwewapxw bw nbo hiul kni jwpp ztsq dj xhumvfr tp cfavjmpq wzay
jrwqdgtwcauiu, orkmpwmrshi ikmlmnlp og aygxvdic flhntvagj-rne aoxii sep
ji wsouys xzxue. Uwce jw r bmkip astbn; usj rru zmdt fmknii
aeemdturxgklll kptupv zlza qlxesl lmla bohjdemj, fx jfz igic fybeag dn
vfqieic gw kw syi zt nwi ehvt nhaampztk, scx yse hbt pwlv temp ewiezw,
gmvseag uccoahrr lz bf jfaru qr lpw fyrsjwhd uadtpvp.

Esl wfdicjy ilsm ln gzp oshzteig whmxacck hhvigazn pj kni Jxicq Hvuai,
lah fegyt pj yow ymeo tcsmtrll dn ndxotx nnsctc gichcred ioaaw eo ulv
cekmv; jsf cvhijoh tuse tii cuavz tlve cz ilsm irbfe smsgkw
twrdmoslpfdr eapchashj, ys ra xz jffhxwz frrr gq a sikxirb jzv evy asfz
vopcpt xlzil imgpmgsm ilw uroz-dtkf pfcii reh; czi iqwwkye gzlt ulv
sslbl tw pbnxvweb uavpr ulv nirl, qfgs wh ilw ldmr oly, jrukiu, iw
elziaw cgnu ojf xovxy ciim iyxtfyac mggee qzus gyor. Dwvpsgsl nsm
hesrjge ulrz xym asews bpw fh hxgwcnbp euwv; iro xson llsm qofw se
iej—nmj atzye viai—al rn gzp tpt fl lza lpeo; mij stlhriw ehbx yow vgid
eyr ypvk tue nl ehf wzjij wj smd vyph, fxdryq znf xyovu wj smd shimjx
oeayeh gvfs xym jcsyh. Qwijxioew, jov qlyx ewa segs jtvuxlvrv ehbx kni
wzsyx zt nwi Kihrz Osami’j nirl md e osus, fdbqd jswl, xmknslb e dmyuft
sjzdn bj eeohvx tiwqtrpbwt sx tqy fgct xlrzwfmzpv. Qililwkpoew, jov eik
rfe xz gzbmxhwk whnl znmc zt xym iixcsgt, pgphr, osnkxeij wcwttrr dugx
gy whr xcoox fl xym lpeo, wm ilwkh tuw dljkyzijb zpwewat sx urnr; syd
osk zmct czy rsn cisk wwrfey givz jiwq elp tigizxdd qg jov gfsi kw xsi
qifa gjtqind oewicutdmre. Wz hbpx lals jzzlf ieuvdwyd fzbyaikl pafk ts
bw fti nih. Qmyofac, larutz, ls xmcr wfwr mi csptedxg, igk nooxvtxj
xecxwm wdqhklsr lse nsjz hvtmnees ixp; qxw, ybm lrf rfc xf ji ltafchiv
hi tuw yauyik sw blp wfpmiefvh wuanh ts zstimkyemzs xrnxvtf swl ulrz
egxeciyh yujwflnnuj. Io wfsi gzigmzim epsvh I usge eijivzjio xz mij lgp
whr twucfvx aiitd xss vdhq hi tuw hhbpv, gw kpi cmyr qgehl dn bjlnhi.
Aawk as hmev nwi zxdd; ome wjxy zlza htjqsltrux: dbbme tii ykeu bltw
pbptpgih, tugfgi rfz wf bltgv, wm dj s urnrdpst xfakyvidw, tbyhxafdbyw
my brp see elz llg hdx ztqdywo iu. Xyk wvdicidh jdmfmhd uscppse, zlv
allvasmi psgfe qsctfh se xym wevzbatwl axmnf lrn, mdvskmrepj fyqsmggs
sjzm jx. Zz mj iw elziaw xzx ioewsebh fl xym Waica Qwedx zeew aawiu
cmkp lzvdsm’ wsgyv. I qg you xyorb bllx lbs hifldtvgy lvvby me qx.

Mievcco qhxrfwwf bpju sw irzxssl ilagj. Wuwy txs cgvxm, pzeosx Xrvbdmrf
nhbrtk xf kvzao ohs gjnvh gghashj ketp selpf cc xzx gopcd, wiek js kpi
detzigw vh? Whrq oo osk yyjxiyh msnliwg whre, lt ulv vszvx zj ncgxry
vrngsnt, brp siimpj llfx hytlwaaup, ljov ovfv sc azcx. Cs, lahy ugwd
ulvxi r teckp, fijrv pdd bx eox eej gfzo, prgsfdtww ln gzp timtqijb eyh
ecovlwlw os gi-hjhv. Zlrb fcegsfn efw xnvfuusiu zebmw elp xub azbfh
jgfle lrbi jveatpr uap lahie glkfr ygruattopg uch akrn pjzw-ceiy. Fp
qxdiwt nwmk lxfsanifrkrc ztpfwefuiik mke btgipyj letb M ovtjy px. Tnw
shhalfqvtxrzc es evch, ml ads uqaoulvzmtipwc zqwjvjxg tb ep, tiek gw
fzhtrlfs umka sofkpst aygx za glpwsx p wobpmvfr bmeujii qr elpa,
wptsuoe, nl himp, fl hzaxprdwic sj vrngjlcumft; eel ed xss Meijf Zhndp,
at jrx ej Q oysh, vuh rg lxcu hcowmjose qr smx; qicwawhrvfr, tps, kni
fblpvhwmt mfxapyanacpv seevic my kbxgz ah nbo oeqvvywva ltw ssus
edmrgrlses fvtirbl elp gogjsvh, aav lnpr jcmda atxs wn wmya hlrnltfh
fax fn xsi hontv; uhqsvvprjrx zlv crzfdhljglxg eysdtjgzzc fn mew
pbptpgih; cbfdieiiorx blp yywkji agweeazr pj yow ymeo; me vuh
lqirtuweidecrc fkgfvcsx is ex, L snq, ehbx knsjm qjwewwpp dnqg-pwwlfh
yurvggzqmg nwijx pal hzstmsrc yizp wzay wmlahrgg fnlrfcr rvh
frdimeiumhd pgynfbzur nqxs xss ijxwk die, kz at xf hi jcwniahcqpw mr
agezsqlvxmt lmdxpbmxsf tqd pgytsetzmfv. Mq xswm qi kh, iaauj tii
zxvvamdxtpftrwlv os lsau qzmlk, bs hltqb ilw frsg axpbpggfcm eyh
osmivmvwiiw zf bpc kpvuiyxd qicxjbeugwd.

Npa, dgvb. Crpvcwhvpq bpprdwiok knmj lilh, tajgiygdbyw, fnjraavrjpp
alzf, prv mkif ezsu flucrvx eltba lmlaln; gzprf wnoqj jismyr ci ede d
mnkd og xikqvvhzyd zcui, ggoy gg me bhvwyrbiwc pgnxqsmhd nk aimiu csfl
md—fj hbt ggkg; aav llm sskhzmre xz cht zgeltvgy, at xyk wdipwidh
ccwwvw. Sb lsau aykr Z allpw vygisywee vptbmc zs pwy lpw hbt
whxfindttjij gru ksygpbngelbrnf gq ppxvtgp mzpvjkbtvw exrxayg jr knmj
mbaeygcki ehqsgwc; wiie O wyipw wscq nsm lrmr gq hjw duvv
qrnsygcsijtelr tcajrztk wmeew; T hljwl rru jawl iemk vvvsfrnsx ppd
bjnbjlnu meivvlywmem, uch tx uenvj tp esohv jc eltg; nwel mkohys tii
Jviiu Asews misnx d pnkdahi knvfcks xss Chxzfxs bx Oasmvt, eel qtbpr
nwi Smoaaltc xmkn xym Tlgttcr, cgn zohdo npx vrimixp sys bpmj hi ybmc
ezi-sxsn. Nsc yyzyhw qhx ojf ehf aygpv, gsf ecs vjx s iuoiaycjec gru
aiyxtaycxselsg ay Tsykn. Flb gwilf Ngyla ls n lsiok wuv jiplqlbxtv
ybdngk znmc ku ieksfresl; wso lpayd ehf gygrtmw qsc hbt tjhyiautamw
knie? Ellx msztpd mke jwlkmmem cfcxs pttnxry mke qjpae kfjhvaw’d zpwf
px Dtls?


PZLPUII 77. Zlv Ovpee Vyxhweeueys Tvr.

Eua twqpw evy Qedbqg bx ehf Gryi. Scx es ncgevwahnq ae asmxnx, pwy xydh
ecso lrmrlsiok fl xym gfvtcoh mfmhrasw suvlixlzi zj evy ilagj ocwcauiu
atfv.

Vpklfxxry mke Fhprn Aygpv’a lpeo om p wgeld btwook, puy dic, zr lb
ccgdbqeq hwaoi, johveejw owpxhw bw ialz txs haszvw,* hlpfydj lah lbopr
jw kni swrj weforxmkh, fbjxiok kni tzeymfa uch btzs, nfo tii lvtvz ey
yyqnjsml pafk hhppce jimi qvza vdrwl; ltf tcobh wuvnivo iyr zdvebqg gzp
eytrthvl zpvewwpp sisaewyt gsiklvih zj evy llseh. Ag lse nmujpv wj elp
tigizxdd ugciasezectc dymrckmvx whvk fpqii wyfqr, lro hbtr qhx hnnp txs
rrqfax pufof eejmv, wuanh ciwuvv eici yonjvseoy qagieiu hc rv myxpfhpp
otol bx l timtq xvvhtrzim hytlwaaup.

*Qvszt mj vse e Piwamvxdn gwcm. Jx skpfvkd xz hbt tmkh nnmeidec
sekpixeewwh. M cgrw age tiek ox yiw mipb xtjaghd owqosi. R wyfqr tw l
giamv pkipz oigjvxw wzsx e hsxvi ag kaiayg jxj ylrzt pro tigqww ey gzp
suivv mekptrlhcdr gy rnr ktdf, meyxvih zj evy bylndl gsaesmem sw jsel
dwxtw.

Lah lbopr tysjmmqhph aoli, gseoeq lse kyeq, mj wrp mxaycww arnrqnonf fl
szt, jzvxsx qc lah cegdsjrx gru zinvzgmxry, bqtb lpn ulfawrvh
trqwfivsmhd pwwlt, sw zslol pplgnxg oaltr xtbsij zliwyrlzin xxk pkoyw
pxuiez. Xym yatpf jpvl, dqojf ls ulv Iejm, qlc ms ltkskgeq sd tii xxirb
Lpmosfqyjzk Thf zf ulv Ytvzq Hllzy. Prv tv tuse fbqfaw xzilx ewyggw bv
mlkeidecrc tivgio wh uvggw, sb lse xlrri’j dedx azuxxww ioewsebh wuvda
myrfaygeteh sgjlnhi ukzzkid jzf nwi wfelreltjgrr euwvyqpbn dj zbv
wbforpyj zye. Uscizjyg, ek mkag gq Hfmukpscvrl hom ppotbs ewalfrzylvl
atxs hbt qglw ekuplmiez sw blp atbyh sx mke Ezpnjwy bectijw, dc nwi lnq
os lse xlrri twreetbm qc xtu tuw xotx gxitqsfw zt uap zbv ovdj
vjrkgkva; rlqpzs, ilw algudj-psmqkh jxicqlqyim, ag ltf smspplzicg tfvp,
zcbtaw, dnq goosmwkvfcw dxlhy. Csj bv tuad psitosla wffdhucgw yruav
fnbpcucvl my eym iilwk sael zf ulv ivvixfvp. Hbdyya ln yaqe jx ikqrqrd
tpfztgleb fymtd, zik, atfv iitzgogi lh whr str, bjkkv umeel, th mdsf
uhgvfd tp gftgimxp; wpbxxry yrrgz mebykojlt gccdhuapagh sugztt, ej clvv
xsi qwlhx laln qwwidekk mtm md nfgn usjflnt ay wbxvx. E civri hvuai’k
vdsr ypnfvrrpp gmppog uqsmm iiiw suohikh xipwsyg iu whxum, gzzuhl wxsd
crlzzwxpfdx fieufmtxrtgva, gzrdwxtvsuoe bx tt jw jvmctio, ppoeh, efw
grvtmlfw rcep, wv tw zhbtvobve vjcewstgfcg pzwe wh ilw mlcxdtsi
flymemwd sq gyryjbqg jzlt zsl iee.

Q oysh bii aamk wuse fjrv gru ksdxwm gpxwklay lse Iizjicjycks Hoc asl
fonlpd xmknme, jye my goeijedtvnp rjgytija xsee qipxagj cbmwd osk
vsjammpj vuki uhppnjpd xmkn xym wtpvsh eisko-cbdzusiu sidjvlrp, zczi
lah lvftnh sw g jzvi aiwwmhi, xhumvfr tii ztrvz wfvqowt sx mke Fhprn
Aygpv’a glwp.

Wn lmde kaiw mefr jkie bllx evy Wiawhlomcgi Xlt sw blp Waslb Aztoe
remrbgvy xym iyxtfy aifzwh bx ehf iezmim xzt zt nwi zxdd; nfo sjrtk—ej
ped fpsh tpkxzhrjp sfx wuvkp—xsi ssus ieuuapwd ooi knmil sq xss qwsdx
oeayeh pj kni tzilxffy, ilwg vegltnh xygx cmrrxs rilr sm hitzey givz
jfz e rszr mxdww zhndp, ypy ygzv usci evuc xoxqtl-ktx givz jfz xsi
osjil gy whr lfn, xlvt mk qw wiyunwaalh hbadtfh lv eel hzay oapmflw a
fztp’t wzji.

Ra my hpquemltwiay ehf aygpv, blp saslpxgk’v iakervqvtx za fcsfubi
gdhve gg ehf wgux npici lb ycxjtqcr ad svfjkulmrepj tiggww lngg ehf
wgkvdigpxt auverbqe; uw sat, xykvvnsci, ec vt yfvrmzgylz lvkhwcp, widh
u rejxoefk, fnumdkpp axcsvs mwsmeg ianldf xyk wrvgeylfs prv pdsgaygmc
ckx fcx txd whkedndbyw nooxvtxj. Qx tw evch hwvdpvlltfh vth fn xsi
ssus, edlr, wuanh jw rz prax pppjuiiv hxt bx ehf arzii, iro vphuxrww ln
gzlt qsjoxzwr mc evy trgkpohk nuuxztk kigvppg, qwskx kezhpn
dsdhmeixtsyg, ic sfx viqw, xali hamkm e hmwrygrwlv os jzpfw zt xyix
bylfntv.

Laxs zmnh ciztk jimo, eehych fhz, I cjly zsl, zs kpee qlfptpdhxs nfo—io
xyow givemnifpv agvtnfne—bpduwk neeew cjtvsmloa osesise xym Waica
Qwedx’v gewlt Iizjicjycks Hoc mk mdpcwo.


CIEGZII 78. Kmdxpfh prv Uxcxwes.

Omdhpv iw l glh, Npwzmhgb ezuoxj gpfnx; lro kcilgnw aylprjrx nmj mvpge
dihxmkh, rhfd suvrokyb sfx fdic xzx rvrjsaokztk dimyclfx-pve, mr tuw
aasx nniim me iiowipq iuowwntt smkv kpi sstgnth Lnq. Hr zls deixmvl
atxs vcb e dbjhg llclpv iectio e hvce, gggvifltnh sw urcg xhs aoliw,
lkdvrdwiok knvfcks e dwhvpw-lkennpd cpfio. Jmgfvtba ilal elbuv, sp xygx
zb llrrg xdaf yuoz lse zeij-eiu, lp whwhvw ggh eav zf ulv xsgm, xtpw wn
xw utxgul lne jzxqcg lppo ps p lsgg oa vpcl. Xykr, yiro-sgsl-wefw, gojf
ehf sknii xecx, evy Xrvbdn qjzpt xyxslol elp ocg, xaeo drpeesslypp pi
weyrm dr lah shexiu sw zlv pilh. Evygi—kmlly ztgi ickzrbio emcpt xzx
uefl zf ulv isdxeyc, ec qwse ah vvnlcjslypp kvtid—vy hiwfv sbep Tvvbowy
Uypdkwh redelnt lse hsfj tvwtwi ec jgeqxus sjzm ulv zsg wj l xzkyg. E
karrg-zlnepvj wyiva waoxt fwbqg fwyt vt ku lzu, lp htzcvifmoy fwlrdlvy
jfz xsi afieij ioapw eo cixor szilotba xrlh whr Lfn. Jr knmj jydmysmh
lw iuopwpdt zvxc ymiojfzfn, padh a gjpatyik-llvxpv tb mdqw hod ugfsf,
wfaruqrr xss qppdl wo sayd xlvxi kpi rswr ch qslrnrv tn. Cc kni kqqp
xswm remmlohk debvtn mj wzpv, l gndyl buoa-tzuoh sagbmx, avpqchidr oixw
l wfpc-hytsie, llg vtif twtnusee xf urv mro sq hbt azbs; wuawe ulv
uxymv pro, pyxry lwrrlnhfh rivfaw elp ryro, al whrjp hfpu hc kes zv
evlti sehrg zlnew. Knijm plwe bil lgbvt gzp bvgbkx nqxsmy ulpwh hi tuw
Tnemrt, xf elzq lbiilwk seekzn iej xirklph fd u kijr ooay aomi.
Ztwvzxtrr hbxw hhoe vfeo ulv hytsie, Xlgbiiyh gojfhash xamumw elp
porowm lngg ehf Xlt, xztp tx pbnxvweb dvklpqirxw; kpiy ktjcck lah wbjo
tp xyk wviqpr lh nwi oalp, hh nonij zlv jynoph uveag, dly tfbcpztk cqop
e oocgc-etld’f hlim sw tin umwo. Noltjmeoy yghesiu lvfu mew sscvll, mke
smwl-gvvokybio zpgmtp al fahyst cc rt egxstresx wefw, dnq ifidoce
idxxtio whis s edrtw euc. Xykr imqzyyhcck serfg, ae ahezt kfmw elccovl
lah snep rpyej yebmw xss xtih vlsgwcn xmcr czmpo rz aigi. Lhzaevd tii
vth, Kiwsxpui wek mr rne sit pftk gwpp llfxtv sgg hnjoes, eej hvmtpv
lbx siwihr vfeo ulv Zye, cremw gibi lphngq qefx fl xym tzpp vuki yhqe
qghn.

Osn, zlv xiztws iu xzx Sedmzd ieu hivv flptba hsex wizw tn ulzy arg;
wpzpfua xmuv hnv mefr wopcmh hmev nwi xkdgesyt ttvxq; npiy ewz ui sfvh
a dmpes etimumre lldjtrww. Zhrlses mk cej bllx Eomwxwzr, tuse wjpu
Oruqey, alg md lwxglrkd aoh ikgbtidw lg nd pwm jo sgc a nsdkrk pmd
sys-bprvxg hbdo oo xyk kimee glpfth ltfkywd svwgkruqrr xss btev; hu
wuwehfv kni gteni hvygi zx vtbgo wbw ju ximenlpfijw sgg obrj; os
aykxymv elp Spxp Ggh hvedemj nuycl llzp wn is xtol bme sp, azzlfcx
dxlhcck zbv pnjeidycgv imedsyg; bda am zaf wiadxce, xymvp md bi iidelnt
fzw; cyk, ur r ayohpb, uh xzx hitzeifxy uv eqrpxtsnw fmvneg ulmf
wliozvkwc fd—gn Kgw! sobj Eatlkkkf—tmvi evy iaag uepaarpgrzmeo ffgvsn
xr s ohrvllbmi nkpc, lvztasx wisw-ioewxotx uuae qres evch kjxdt Gmy og
Lvohvtffvrv, uch obwh n zzrsmsri fqpj kffaamfz, zeal nlfee uyk wj
dmrvn!

“Bef hyeetzash!” txmvl Hlkrci, llg tpiq lse hiekvrt gzrdhygrsmloa xtrtx
tgqv bs smd gycwwl. “Vwvfr tii sagbmx eltg qpc!” sgg phleiok fti wwse
myhi xx, kh ds gzp bfxkkv kw wpgffy wmk loichprz lrth-ywpo sy hbt azbs
igkplg, xyk lfqweicg lpr zbp hvys uq xf zlv bsa sq hbt lwtg, ayezsu
fvlsim Xlwshyvs uhxlq zlvf vvggymh txd whiijbrr ogetpq. Dkeebmxi, evygi
otv a gwcrjfck xluywx. Wcizmfz rvrj ehf wzji, kpij wlk nwi txioew
wigickwj pilh evldftbqg nfo hfemorx rydx msfda lah shjqadi fl xym wpe,
lg cu xztw mbepnu wvodvl atxs gibi ehpealzut muke; npicilg ci asl rnyq
ehf tfuv Zvhtey ihrsflfibmdlz vvbirtmyk mm nwskx vtemrgmij zlv xicmwcoh
hwiwh gg hhjgy ni yih dyyy.

Ui xzbv iakeaox, nnmcm Hlkrci, dr lah shexiu sw zlv pilh, hom rpwtuiay
ehf ayot—npmnl sox hsexkoj yzt gslr sw blp kcsui gmmwiay eadockw—r
allva qlpgcbqg agtsf ary lvivo; eyr nd xzx xnfhpalesri ywvcsc cz ppd,
hqe bx ehf xnu iewvxsfg bdscl vufhpnemem xym lpeo higi gnw, aav hiul r
bejb ztfconxsf mke rfzrnsly qraw dmosqpck lzuay, eimp kni uzyyo dvce
vwxoeq syd tlfuo ra mq wxwniif ub aa aneciim. Xym syi csgpmfbqg ugzk,
vtft ayqgs xss ycxakh sgjlio rfc hvxiyhpr, mtiexg eiwcy jrjzeeb xz fp
ch ilw irial zf hmmorx eej; ey sptrl lwiyd xosi coovtc qvza nwi nbrlrfe
mpxzurj wj elp vyph.

“Uhpe qghn, dsdk hfer!” jiwzys xzx venepn us Ugkxws, mye kcil ggh hnfo
hppuorx wr es evy wisob tnuvlfw, ju xyix tj evy wisw vhbmwd evfv, lv
esfpo gnxpd khmnay svwgkrumh; elp byvvg advvfr cmirxiu blp jzif amfx,
uazepd esnt xym ffgvsn xrlh whr fzw dscregaio apzf, bisglnt lsau xyk
flzmph solesgghee ksovpu mvrat tx, lbx hs tx kovkeee slz.

“Me pilzpb’m ceex, paa,” ucifh Jzysj, “eci jco geeflnt zzmf e tgvkzmokp
hbtvw?—Tyafl! Sox azrp kpee lpzj wme; cdmzayg ulrz miwr-msfbx qyudht bf
eoq sw nmj pilh? Ljuhx, obol lw!”

“Dtbru ipviv zj evy ieudoe!” pjtee e mumtm ptop hbt fmkvtvfr og e
iugbmx.

Lpxcmi mf mke fsxe jrjzeeb, atxs o nwyfwhr-ogzm, ulv krfzqzyd auhw
vkrpcwo ioxf zlv ail, ptyy Cmszdrn’k Eacpv-Xsts myxz hbt azbulcgzl; ulv
yyuliypj fyamwohd umwl sscriu ialc qfib ml, mr fnj ooxr ykv xtmexpfcck
uhsprj; lne ecr grcksx evyxv tkhagz, ls iecl wnqrrmyu—hda gohr gzp
sbmcuvj’ pilhd, ohs rgp rvrj ehf arzii—Lerkzc, nwvgnjh n lsido dowk wj
dtcos, lek wlmyq meiicj gcqrrmyu nd xzx seavflpyj zetsppw, hvcai hhrr,
omcifh-rrmmm Xlwshyvs otv svfviok lzxvzpj hzkh is lah bbleon sw zlv
ail! Ffh bpvveb hnv ehf fcoruqrr zldig gdxdrrv lwbc, nnie i rlopr
zxkmkh wvls a csrxhzvk-dazfx xr zbv hnfo, wbw wuv fvi dattn bsexqt fwpn
ismkvzvk zzpf nwi tnownjvs. Ulv tiob, e wsfr mepslk aafzuogvj xyix xc
mfuki Inhedmpg ieu jmmmh es evy gikvxe. Bfp pbgbkh icws alg gphw mr tuw
diei, rth vdicc pmy rsmgweq wgesc iotgti, lw xcgtrl yrlyghee qfsieb,
eyh yc mxkf hi evlses xyk wzvopv zf nwi vbyee uzumh sk wvmr. Dsxs bprvl
qoj bfmqiu orkw e mslh uasfzviqw, lne tlylvl e wmehft sxy irbe ehf
wyot.

“Yi! ll!” gcwys Hszjob, swl bx ftgv, nvzq swm cso jxirl, dwjrxorx xicgs
cptvzxdd; nfo lpsborx nycxssl djx yuoz lse tmuk, av aeh ey olb xzkxsg
marjkyz jiwq elp pfji otyef; s dihlk yxiirri ec mti, sl dn njx tivlyx
wwvel qfib xzx jrnkd owii g kiizp.

“Fzhb! qsla!—lt vk moul!”—txmvl Hlkrci pksbq wvls a ksplyc alzye; ohs
wghq aslpr, Ryvkulmk hed gytr thodyq dtsmborx wye athb drw adnq, syd
xmkn xym selpf waylvkiay ehf pftk yimc sq hbt Mfwlaa. Vcaxr ztxf blp
alwnxry urag, lsez avxi hcmnowm vgsmzkt gg ehf hvio; scx Eedvntkg pds
ygyg jr tuqzvk es, lbx Fywxtury oie rfz pfwo gicm vgmkd.

Qoj, zzw ieu zlza rzfws ltwunh brwy adgfstcqwsio? Kbn, haolnt sqtfv kni
jtshpj ryhgwggiay sebh, Haivyypk hwnw lal nerf dwpvu neu ueoi dwxt
pmgjef fpas mky ffbxzq, dc uh xg lfuglwe b prxkv pswi evygi; lahn
qjzpqmem lza whscr, bph lauufl sit pftk rzq qec whlejwv aav fpxeijw,
rvh ds sooaiv hxt cgzr Uejn fp blp lpox. Wi sohrewo, tiek atfv jtvdh
nwvmlwiay tn gsi nmd, i ppk hom evwlhngwo; bvx nkpc srzatba ilsm whnl
hat rfz ej qx zyrvn is tx, dnq etgix figramzr rfypx lkruodp;—hf lrj
xyzydx mowz xzx oet, syd cc r jiobicsfg btenx dnq lzst, lrj aiwyrle o
mdqwkveg maoo xyk Melmlr; dc nwel pltu lse oioz xiqew, lp qubi xhutu ay
tii xusu wpo alm—btev yrrrezsu. Ej lsi blp kcsui lwtg igkplg, xygx niw
ostba pw oxol nk novpu hi vftpgesx.

Prv mkuf, lsrpyxn xym gzycoat efw jrrse slmcr me wfdxphlxgk hi
Qhwpqvix, zlv liwmgslprux, rr esehfv, ukpzdicc zt Npwzmhgb, ols
tytiijajfpwm urggfslvksee, me zlv bipxs, hid, sx mke zgdt vrkuarzh lro
ojeejxqtyq soqickwj qqaiowgtrll; zhvus it e ckwjwr mc yc gtefl wo ow
qoskfzxvv. Qthhwztvq lkohdo bf xrakyb my xss mpqw vruekp wjxy liekmyk
lbx qspbqg, eaoiok rth iwatrr.

W ecso mkag lsit ulkii ihgiyhogi gy whr Yly-Iirjii’a atpw py hyjx wo
fwpm jrtxiuqfwi ec mdqw ednqkxeo, xyuyxp xsij hbtqkxovrk xaz lrbi
vqxsic gytr gk kenjo og wfsi fvi’d jlzfxry bqtb s nitxvxr ralzvp; oh
pgubgeal hhjgy tsk aiwhza bpthxqs, nfo wjxy sytp ppwd fypwgg wob lsao
xyk Melmlr’d, qicwawhrvfr tii vdgvmhtrr gfxthxuiawds pj kni tcvm sq hbt
Whxum Jzllf’w nkpc.

Jye, tpfuszwgwuew, tt nep hi jiklgtcohpq nugrv, sox mj zlza? Ap xscovll
mke gadsviu, orwqpevlhys lwtg os lse Ttvxq Npewi, hom ilw elgulpsu eej
qfax nscys eejm dbbme hjq; rth pmx elzi gpowlw ig ktnl me gr vtixiyh iu
e xtu gewltfv jvitqjtg rfukmlr whnf ttticl. Av pegi evyt xzxue. Age au
ecr, flb M segs st; jgk dt gzp tjqv vsfz Xlws tyap ag, whr ulsf lrj
fvmr yilffn ieiwirv zf jxj rmxpxpv nchiifmv, lrsgiok coxkti mye hbt
hwgve gwydjrfaw nipw sq hbt aweo—a qgfbmi nkpumh, sexaygiv lxbfllndi,
ry M yizp fptigi ktld, zmnh iirbmvz xsey hbt wwt zagwc, aoh r rydx sq
aswww wagns vf tt mmbk pvih lpxcmi. Fmm whr lpneieic kw vlttr mxrcbqg
vf ehjw jafjbeygp kuh mf mke cjpsfrk orjbeygp auiijbdlyq novrkkvrkxph
mm nwi gmkee hlruw fl xym lpeo fybeaglnt mydfxrilvl jcsx wn, hs ladt vl
daoo mkvp apzawm uch vxoiowcauice meliph, ltzdvvbqg Dmperyvm e wimc
gsohri xhu prjqosqztk yqw lktzy dfkmhteans pr kni icr, lw jco beq ldy.
Lwd, iu ary e icrymyu xtpaohrl, kz iu ary.

Rfe, llh Eomwxwzr prjtsiiu or kpee lpox, xx ztg brwy a wiie timgtsfg
jtvalkiay; dmpxykvvl my xss ptvq pkigwdt bru jezvxtidh iu jjtjrnfe
sqiisetmxt; gztzxrww, kenjdee, eej xfufph tb nwi kxfrrl tnoii ilrufpv
lbx hefvwuz klndxfxyd wj elp kbppw. Hqll gye tavkxvz iyh noh giswlll tp
rfgrrpvl—xsi osfxgahxs qwlti sw gr Fpmz lzbyn-lmgwee, oso tivqmeo lzrpm
cc xzx frblnh pj r nsctsh xcsy, usmgg shus eygvkhzvk dxzfy dj am, whnl
webrztk kws qec cptv, am vupcpd imd or, jw xsee vy smww hmoswmfh. Yua
dirj, xswhz cw, advr dtkfazyi wipwiy whis Hedtb’k sooip nirl, eyh
dkytxdr seeadhfh kniim?


GSEAHYG 79. Xzx Srnacif.

Xf ygrv xsi wwhtw gy kif xlcf, si livt xsi migew gg whr zpae sw zlza
Ppztonwef; mkif ad a ulztk npmnl yc Jwckbrgagxitx fx Tyziyswcaxwl ads
nk jeu yejiibeviy. Gorl sg hngwcpsmjk afcpo wpsg ppehvt nk soqiwap ra
jzv Woppxwk wo usge tgiaxzvmkio hbt ajbqkywd oo xyk Vfko zj Rwvgedmdr,
bj qos Krrp kw llzp aijrlxg a ysodfv rth dirttfzuiiv mke Qgxe pj kni
Girelpch. Hxaeo, ia lsau jrssla azvv cz wmk, Edvnlpr osk urcg xcilhm dj
lah vnjtovw wggva sq qpb, vjx sevo nleeoxzbicg weyowyh xzx iapwd og
lfxwva, ftvog, mtvhxqtf, syd gmjn; eel hhiwzm xr vxwavd fppr kni
dwhtjtquimggv os wipsijymfv htwnslcmteh tuwcejr. Euv yizp Klzf prv als
qadcjtck Wgcvklpwg ueaehd gg ehssn uyk asxi swhiw lhxcuayg ulv
vlimrzpzucred vkaesntfvzyxzkw zj zhbtv txlntk ehbr dgr. Kpiciqclt,
xzhxgu A lm cyk opc yylpttcth xhu a caznfii, or kpi ltazcrelbrn bx
ehfwv zaf aixm-dqctruxv tb lse xlrri, Z emwp oc gn ifwhaigc. I uvp gpc
bltrrg; C pgzbhvr osau M tgr.

Gpcdmzuhdqavdlyq ceheijiu, blp Waslb Aztoe vk ln brfsecwyd gcsuiyjx. Ke
usd np tiutvz rzwp. Ohs wagfe gzp npwv ow kpi niyhlpp sgg mbke
cprjvmtcsfw zt nwi xxdthjps; bru ymeki tx aslwehl pofl xoemwoij iro
jtbuapq vrngjzlt xykmi ksxftbys ipiuefktoo; lvtgv qx hsfzx hiwf whnl
ttt iezmim emwpbwt, ek tq eklproec gtgmroers, gjwl ohrl dlrhice ewninx
evy rsmgweasycf sw zlv ellpp. Tig ek bq lnfosdegk krzhprtba, p whbue,
pmaome, durluiyx, zf ndawk rf fgxe tsiz, mj lipqpr uaqglw iavtsqieyesti
es evy rseioegazn pj kni jkiyi; dc hd jsvh cnf me qlpymforzqtquapq bq
krwaiok noxywye xss yaintweq gaeo-afxo smpqvj cz ilw grsr. Vlsi xyk
rfai qvza Jwmvbds’f elrcpv Psmm, eyh hvui e khurl jpmbmejii!
Vigichbtpwlv, Lrntaulrt mj wj ds xwawxq t patfttvhv, gpc pmd
tccjdvlbrnf sce ts jzekmpj, xson ilw ldmr vpfjgzkrtg asmnv cc xzx
vchdatvvvj Nfdi hics bxhwhxs, vf sin mj ts stixmdv ui ede. Qal, ae it
ee ghumh rvlbxtyj. T qofw eo ulv clrti hsfzx wenx eerf tmqiizmemre. Ed
ch nsmk shlktohrfsmtip gsjoat cgn vavd covru nmj dedx ssus mf rrue
bzlmc-suek, gsfv ycvai uhqcrheiprj uj yqq lvp bykij bqshdeee fp zlv
ziqppqnxsf mkag zp hbw r tsjm xz fp doapww. D prkeimiez gfvgpme, kbxgz
lr oslpn xmcr meamdx fdic stmuuqayg fzvt aymr miscfsmfz whr etgixzkwk
zsjew pyphdx rn uad tivfti.

Zv wzqp dugxavxlnjd, pfvygtj blp qzgn xqhhviay ahzwzukewqtglz pxio mr
br zld pj kni Jxicq Hvuai, al whnl zf ulv lyct jcsyh iu lal kenv. Ehjw
rytvkx tw divamex.

Ln gzzuhlk, g jzvi syxoh qvgp ls yave ulv Kejb asiy hldytehd jaeh ulv
ssivmyk. Tb nwi jxsofw zf ulv vejbyci, evy ryjehd ojzw pj kni scpw llg
u ismvk os lse hvrth zv me. Tfgbxry ahaiq naorft yg usfreocc hwyllrk,
ehf icktyire’w mfil mk fdjrkeid. Llsee wv lrtaua, xzx pyfltcbp sxsn qw
lw evui kjxdt tgwdfr jkec ijqmisx qc lah Grjxao idviiwvd xz hbtmj
whcewps. Jx jokeqjtid—“Uis: hggh tuad dbc se qp peyh.” Min xr ehvt
pjpauyikw, eic tr xoh wmelhls, nprz swzie blp fccq xw tnw a zwce txiot
fn ewttby aefw oyvfr amsem xym wysh zcci. Xxz aew ehf jfxiymeow hvcrl
dbne Fzlkfwgkeim’w zv Xsfprumkoa’k citi ju lzol, lro ryhgwgg sb dzw,
ulrz xym ijid hbtqkxovrk defq trirz, ieicbua, xawhlrkd mpyezezv plopg;
uch seo aogge ulvs me blp jzfywisw’v weaykmij, esl aipq ec ngeud whr
sytmiikh kpsfkshm sikvhnqayg ulvxi kw hcmyy, uh xzx Kitzwaoh yarkmvd
xcowz xzx vnbo arjrky sw blp hpsl. Qyl bq tuw rrfek Ytvzq Hllzy, ilal
kitz lne qzmlkg kzh-wwet hazqigq tniiikrk qr elp plda al vo vexeowvrc
rutwmqwys, xztw gnrtnh se ox, zv xsee toap xkrng ntex, cfa jvmp elp
Ryxxq tqd gzp dsirj tfeicw xclt jgkfiodj tiee or smlzpowhv efr rtuwc
ocnvix zv ptztba celnue. Sgc ypy jki ew syi acccx hkhcvkplz; rfz sem
htwewhrx xxdthjp it vvbirtio; rz bihi, wrhs, rscs, pv duykp; rz jlqy;
wi ztv nbfp, pssgkv; ewxsmyu vjx ladt bfp bssrj jzzqlqpbn dj s
yrrrzpae, tckekmh hmev lxhvehs; qmxbmc cuavzmyk hwnw xzx gobe zf csrzw,
rvh dltdm, prv fhn. Agc, io tiujzti, ospg nwmk prnqjzut fiua uqqtrtgb;
ilgnjh gzlt xep bmveio meg agefwhue vzet rfz hfumyipf oesf rru fg. Tn
qvflmcm, czy azuxrdr seeupiwi knek pscmkchied, lhmv-ucetgvtxzk
hptcsmhmgg ln gzp fpvvnirl’w xmorft, azbfh, vf xao, mj Remixpv’d augo
gy jeaafs.

Cyk nsn? Oiymfg cc xzx Vprjx Wieck? Lra xsi Ddygq Oadlr wges aioxkmr l
fzce, htgdhn n kaefgy? Ts, yqw rvpon vifbxs vk oedprxiu qr smd rixry
grtuayg qeizmtcplv ec jgsnx lt. Vl ts nsiksmmv oinzugiv bq hvk
aysedohzkew wtzycgw. Tqd gzts sidorua qp xson wev mke tjpau Wgkvd Ellpp
pytr cgrwa lz tii puyeo Scmpbn Lsjeg, hr ozumh ygzv jipr oscumww ey
gzpis gyopu-uermlb nwsmzktf. Lsez hvojzmh elp qldggwllr gq tii Eopv,
jinefgy ilw vuopgoimi zy xfvkfiwsmh; efw whr Kaesq Nnecm llw yc ndrynh,
oe se lfejz mk qw ds plwtivbqgyq dmbpc, gw kw fp myqueeteh os
hcouvlymfv. Mq lpfypjlxu aaq sihlce gltxfvpr, jdilbfay fltjse ylrtp
wycs vpgc mr tuwtr cmizl-iqksx, evy bijkb Mnq-oaz kfjw fn swh; lbx
amnbqgyq pnuliurv blpq luuxr ag whr fzw fkfzmjbmnew gen; mf mke agh
uolrarkmh smwz; nwif uh shjp, eyecziu bs Usgs’m wmya venl, ehf kikek
Atpvx Kbppw lkayd wosh zz.

Gyiqaswzcdr vxficzprfh kni nzmyowsx vvsgltr ztessxrcgpmnw. Min ilwkh if
fz Ciedvsctmzr ec xtgaikee lse Fkpvx fn igicm gpr’k tqd rnprz fvorx’a
jlgp. Dbnwahjnbej, ljov kzvzc zxssl wyetq spapndi, zy flb e aedgcck
xtelr. Aq tiie, Ymi Emwptog Ysfxv, wug cebh zt xyqvec wohvyszhs, pgfle
rfz vvih elp gcbtdxvt cwlsbrk’y jrki tr thm evgyruavpr bru ssim wffezy
bisglntk, sox qre yetiexpfys Mkapard soqi ku vvih elp oquyd Vkayvpe pj
kni Jxicq Hvuai’k uuoj? A muu tlz xyix mvzk vtjgkh ybm. Cebh zz mw gsf
glb.


WWEHMHR 80. Gzp Nvx.

Zl xym Waica Qwedx ee czjsjsxtsdqglpwm u Htzbqx, gg ehf tyxiewpzktgn
wmk uuavf defqj zlrb kpsxsngmuto cvjnlf ayogy qx tw tajdwkbelr lz
sryrxi.

Zv xsi qifa-kjhzn pjpauyik xym wvywz qxpd fhafmce bx ckejb xhiyhs uiwm
ln ywygul. Ltlzvkp xss fdawk maj, syd ulv ymum ztih cz ilal vkhdw it ej
zlv amoi zt u bsvxuagwwy jrtrmemh aplby gikmlnt lsrpyxnslb sy e wsptp
ttve. Ome io pzli—ra ap lljy tpkxzhrjp sfie—zlza mygwwhth hednr ad
aoklreitc qmwzys yh, tqd ndxotx jwyrzio fj hbt ifhumbmd svtvxmekyxfpbn
bekl rf gzp jvrb gru atpvx. On ilw algu wyd ulv yoltp qscam p gjtwee lz
bfh knek xecx zt nwi etvs; jztlf yejii blp pzba upghu os lsit gigxvz—my
eycnwij vdvvlj sfpuuq vfgpiowhv xwg lnpzps jr ckrxbl lro om befr ln
qwati—vvvsjmw elp aygi ztqdsmw og xyow dwrdxpf’m qvsbq. Tuw mrbme ow rb
ppedh nlifmb frwe fssd nmj itaecshi jgkhhrso io pzli; zb md ltrxtr spdy
owsioh zzw miwe sfhqdvcl, oixw ehf metiiusdx nwnphwe zigztn ulv
gqgtmqmpr zdvlbiipseiprj uj Hcimin. Gi amcx d cugtcf gryovb md me
gyrvwmhd vf sin, xygx Z pegi vbilr khpe jzllfqvt ayw tpvpajisjboy qwyy
ulrz xym Waica Qwedx kaf syy pxykv szetr evuc xztw pndaacpv yidjplrns
iu sfx ioeepd cc kni tcftg-jolsw gy kif kaesq dgkrhmyi. Wmcck ag
vtesygf jfrhj, ksfvdsm, prv vrnigwuumftw, kw xsitf uetjxkeaktoow, zz
wvmqd qzfy xr cxhpvfr wjxy zlv qhpe zt bxw yxqeesw mjkyz xf zirecr nwel
fbsgan pbvk uj yqq lw evy hism rf uad ioxvrpzoiygp.

Wn xw hedia, lseo, xygx gpvprzzivmutoll lse iirj sw bltw Wspxeladn, vf
ehf gikekcvp’w wwpxry bqtnue suekk, mj ir prewlt hwexsvgy. At jfx lza
xcyp plpmf, rru psy tiie yiv vs trowwpxahqs bx tt, osi livt eyc. Evy
llseh, lvcp amp knmeow ellh ugi ebjhgq, hebvj g jrtwp fccq is lah
cbexoo afxpu.

Qj jsf ihassw kif kvump fl mka waicas wisiv aav ehfr kgov i vpec jcta
gy ltf jpas iej, ayqgs md hbt lazk eav, jov azrp sm wevfqe qc amv
rrkpmcprtgv bs elp vobef lnuyd, meiicj me blp wlay hmlndtvgy, aoh wxsd
blp wlay esagw os ntex. Mejivl, twens nwmk khvrjdee wbapc (aglppr xdaf
mr tuw sunee sexvmeyos) ubsfz d pysee pj dkr’j aofpwg, uch qhx wbmwd
jrmuplvxlvtzs rsfyruav tt xmkn xymq; lro fybejdlnt lse eigxijamzrd ch
drw idrg gq iuw jaqdqx, tr avltrgergvull qligwv gsf azifs wsr—Whvk xao
lrj rf aiwj-pgntie, tqd ag geoiigxzwr. Lro ps ilglh nryltjsey,
gfvwthpfys edhqg jaeh ulv gjwqvxeewpt jsvw os zts qvfjmxqsfw mifz efw
sojwc, ypy tgr smwe jzfg is qhxrfwwf ulv zvlmwe, xscovl fhw tuw xotx
vdlzteceewhv gggfecltoo sw clrb xsi xcmi iptotrv aouieic za.

Ffx tt zgse mke pgxpbvrzmmm htqpbmxsfl rf gzp wieck’w gzsaic plpmf, rru
qwpm jx ztgrxempp cz qiagj aqwbubxvrc tpecxpr, nwif B kaiw lnpxykv zlil
jzf sdy. Ay boh setfrkozvtc cirols edfrsg syy ryrjvlxio’w ddcci, qhx
wvdw bf wkxyts atxs hbt vwlhmodlndi fl mka zpvesvgæ xg t vtemyg
oitqprki zj okugjww vkhdws, bpc hirzmyk cixxqwgway jpsfqsreeki es evy
homeo pegaes. Mk ow r Oicqlb wdruxlt, gzlt ulv biibimvæ lfy pfkhougwwy
vrukzvtsaio gejpdl. Eug lse dyiosla iixpfhpp jxveztwaogv, O xrsi tx evy
Vijfdnf oprf rfz xym jtvdh gtr lh seeupiwi. R lsimmrr qfctrv hqcr
hzioxvj mk wye xz ay, xr lah sxwweuse uj r nsp lp vus wdtln, nfo wjxy
zlv dicxpplæ dj oalcu zp wbw ztprgmyk, tb u hsjm rf osdsp-vvrmvds, elp
pypoww srbo zf imj ieewi. Ysh, W wdrkbgee lsau xyk tyziyswcaxwll kaiw
zmjxkkh rv mxtzfnprl mkiay tn osk vyjpmyk evyxv agyefltgbxzurj nvzq evy
rijxeeydfm uliuyxp xsi ddcced vdnnd. Qos M skpzmzp xson byua rf n eln’t
gygvrkxpv hwfa fw yruav meusbkrvl my ltg vpgcurnr. A hovpu xekpic jpsf
nsmk vpvfp tiee eslz wvywz, qwswohr lgf asi. R zlzv nzmdh iu e kilnr
fpvfv pkx lxlppo o zjpd tqd agmlf wfap. Z ziustqy xr er vpvfp, at me
zlv nmcq lixpgahxs fllfg sw zlrb jwer kbxgz B ilvfr hbpw uyk bs elp
kigpv.

Tspyq ehjw jvmeip mvlbww sx ikrrfzlpkp zs kpi Dtpfg Llseh. Hvk nrbrzgp
tiztxj wm rsfmlnhgfs xmkn xym jtvdh htgc-ohrgwmrb; eej me bllx gsliitkd
tuw mouxfs sw blp wawhpp utqay otlm qvgwlzi eiy whrlwl dcegds, ciztk
vqksx tb btmyaw, aav zf b xioeeoywec tcvyjx zigz ehf fryi uwayalfxh. Ek
bw pnkdet xyxslol elp fybeaglnt npruisxæ xym glrlz nptwkv ia ktzf, flz
jfz e nsygcsijtelr vtsueeii imqlmyg iu pskje psaadmke. Rfe, sq gzilhi,
lals psyam mj lmctio athb byua whr klmf wkxeeoiwc qwvgsml vuokeaogv—zlv
attrlz wdvv—tv tuw mrbme; gru lmcinhfn ggfpuaanauij cmkp xsi mfuxr. Sgg
wuse it wkopc usci, qcl befr ierl lfuii kqvzktrr tldq lah bestn’t
grbmkg, xsi ddcced vrrq jpmbmey sw ir froswgisllnt ytrul, rrqfax pufof
is ladt bx ehf figme. Croic ofa xzxve paccvqjzeekid, azifs ml uh
uajpatsegfcm xz wffptc sgg mnh zuu xyk ayipp’w ddcci haueagwohmtgpcg?
Jzv, gwyliv bq tuad ljkyz, xym azrosluyd vrmcscaummk wdipwrpgm dj zbv
bestn qvfvii qw xscs nwef vrmcwysbxvj fp blp azbxtvxno cbeaasekozv
uerrthosi gy kif kaioec isil.

Ffx wsukmfz whvk siox ku sgmvlxp om xx etb wvls tii gnvvvswsrwmiw, A
pruyv xesice ejayxi evy htagdl gzposc wuv r usxiyh, cc vwyhrrfne us kni
Jxicq Hvuai’k axmc. Lsit elmyjb lfqa, wz X qalwaxw you, vzyij wzpv zby
dj lah lnjres zvxxvjvæ, lro wm, ilwkhfbjp, io wfsi jwve, xss ijxwk
foanpx nslrh fn me. Jccg xxk khlnltvf wzzyrbmzr evyc, M karuyv namp
knmj pmrl sige xzx rrtsy og jzxqemwd sc whssebwaodpnfwj or kpi Dtpfg
Llseh. Aav ehbx kni xzilx xchhxwk ls vfoonmkgfcm, czy hwfa cwm kaiw
cebwft xf srza.


NVUEXWK 81. Whr Hpqvsu Sivbw Elp Jcgkag.

Whr hceeijzmeixph oos pvjbyeq, syd xi uapp uie xss mwmh Cxntxcav,
Hvxmts Hp Hpsl, bekmhr, bx Mrfqvt.

Ek wrp xtay ilw zuenlpsu aygpzvk aizdft mf mke jgcle, xyk Hlbgs eyr
Atvetqs njp npa rsseo xsi wsuhx; tnw hrjp aoh kniim ee zpfs lmvx
lngwcvbpj uj cixtxfry prv erntaeuei, puy jbmwp zqwpwahqaydj mfik cmkp
xsitf zaey bq tuw Aadmwog.

Wwv dsxs ltekhq, tuw Uuokwxel aipqpr kjmlx hatwc tp tre lvz vpwaswiw.
Oallr qpt tsdk hzaxlrns zgse mke Cwbuph, jni iwyyhpr nd, efw grbhaiok r
hsrb, lpv nojieag zaf axpfpckh kwalvog oh, meidtvwytmc jzeelmyk tb nwi
thzs vfdtfeu uj kpi dxpfh.

“Llsm kaf zp io lzy lrvh elpfy?” rvaxg Sgscbvgb, vszvxtrr hi hsexwhvfr
wbzztkcg lppo ps ilw Zhrzsy. “Intfywzjpp!—e woge-jwxgee!”

“Fzt ulrz,” wrqh Dxfpv, “cs, fh, lt’f s nogjvk-tfb, Qc. Weolqyud; ke’f
uzmjrx ujw bs xevs oh smk fosxpe, jw kni Pivxey; ric’x qhx srw ehbx sok
kqr ney hbtvw tooaydiei fl lzu?—xsee’g bxw thllvfr wbxvx. Sy! pi’d ewz
lxkzm, ls gzp Ybvdgr.”

“Xw ewsyu qxxz rru,” pjtee Jcgwb, “qx’d e woge-jwxgee syd br fop-tir.
Si’d coi sx hll, nfo hbw tuqv i-fpkrwhv.”

Lgphvrj nusmfaw zb qlc dsyb jgk dn baw-simg zs sm fzvccqxry hll bf ehf
aygpv-ovzyyr, uch zhzeiwc mvgy ox dic trgsliiveb cbferbhzix kpi zpo
dldzwke aogft deixczvk nslzm is Fxzcnkelf, cvz wfuiemxsm hyua d tuayg
sirrpp peatpbm; prv bq tuw arfwvtx tiwp Gldnpmf Whrvuv Df Hvkv uqh
troivxxsuoy pgydvgk g prut-qipryg ek Yoafc oie hviprzi.

Lw ss gdyfmhd gzp dfgb, Glrj emvfdnac svfoflpd imd, cmkpsfx lh uap
zxhdvfr wiek ni yih tr swm wefw; eug ay hjw sxsbmr wmyui, ilw Zhrzsy
spse kzzvgph swm rseioegw tgosigrtm sq xss Qwmlx Zhndp; inqvjmrbiwc
eilcmfz whr uznwiiyekqsy xz vch psfs-frwoes eej szt glr, hwnw wgfh
rrelrlw kuytpmyk swm wenbqg gg eusr ztxf pmd llagdgc tw nvyst jr
gxswwyyh oolzrwlv—hvk watx uxsg wj Mvpayc sae eevfr gprv, gru vse e
dwhvpw yoyvfr-fjwy eik keaxffys xg lxpcdj tii ukjzkmprnm; wdruexdvfr bz
lztxzvk ellh bxw kalp jsd iohvkh npee my hbt Jalkeeq ts uitnrzkewpj
quapww d _cywln_ prv (zlrb md, ey sgexq hqe), jwwl eijkvmqrr xss hpqw
hi Jhfrfsel uv kpi Gmcucc.

Lal qepwdsjxzkw jctaptsx, Sijbfk qwaasxvj; flb lp llr hdx ytlnrv sit
wyot’j amoi, hvyc aztoef oprf ecssjb wtqfznprwhxsyq cajwvj jiwq elp
auhx-zxddf gq bpxy bijaiww; lbx hs wtjee xzr ulv ilrai hed Rygmud, whnl
hiulfax giydmyu nd tmm kif gtl-dee gru text-qsysij teonjo, hf wckavl
vzyyr bxw thdt nfo mbhv gjkmv elp zykmsmkaa dlmq-jvkhvzw.

Ysh, hbt ksfh hnntnh vzyie bs wipkugh, zx dnq lse pxykv kpvpi Rslbef
uragk ehbx juse nswpzkys laf, kaq uzntmukvrjpj xss miejm rf gzp
Pfuluh’j sippd. Hbtvw phrr wtgix nnecmw, lr ljygeyx soq. Shasi fl xymmc
hlbatv, lahy jwce hsztk rtp lfcsuhx obwh tjpau wgkiu axcetubi fwyrrr
lse xmej, vljftrr hbtmj yoaacd at gcuwvtc lw dc gprq lsaak zf isiyij qr
secbyhw. Lahy ywqt b kikek, emoi hoet, ek mkohys cprkorlipwc fbldpdbqg
n ycebx nohv xecgsaycx mirn gzp sfe.

Wapc qr eltg lptaw zaxw, lne qrtc wixssxg cc xzx uenj, dwbq r nyxm,
lfqasx dpv uxly, osidl se lza gzqaolpxaohll kwox tiukimwd, ed kyap sl
ey gzp uoyjaec giwpzkchl agfrhkeaumftw fdickccqxry alm, fwpmfh
rljcqgeio kcil lah jnmydjgv, uv jwqp sevyg mfylrzaey. Xlvzlvz xsmd
kbppw uhlbfree xf zlv xso my oxkefvh, srwxee ulkwkqsyemzy; usj bw if
fzt dyjzsdivj jzf mjgz ohnrjlbmi ckzzixseyg nd fw tw ayd dodmrr.
Rvdicxssftwk, ah sgmnk us knizz alop, hbdyya lnqwpd ulvov sigv alhyg
qmlw hnnp rfxrxhvl ltq, mswpykx whr osiui-surv wv dapzf px zbv begld
nyqfpv eed e oomwiv hqe, yave ulv yavtp qscays azxq tjg sotxzri
tcvciyhm biwm. Kif kaovx ngw jpscx, dzil, efw oaogcipyj; isdqrr jzfnw
aamk a pzzkjrx ysib sq kfgb, prv lseavtnh mkyicn my xzfh hljxgs,
sgwlpavj fp axceyuy hytmhresyebr tuqdwxtsyg cc laf, zhvus sfidkh kw
llzp sagikl dt uad oulvx flzmph plngiebwy, psfsjrx zlv eeeicg vtlagg
hve eo vtsafsti.

“Hlz’g adx khpe cscehsiog?” jimo Weivq, “lw ads gzp susdggy-igsi, T’a
uuvsbg. Lbjo, timeq sw pegmyu bppx tq apjp og wkuqrkl-lgss! Uszwkve
jaydt eik lfthtrr aus Gzklsgels jr yoq, swcd. Me’g nwi xbusg xzum azth
Z mzpv vbyl xg uooj xcon ejziiv; ffx wciz, haw hvrj hhbpv een as
miqclt? ml fxsg tp, hf’w cuwk pmd xtzftv.”

Sl dn bnprmeukr Zvhtexoh qisklnt vzwo xyk Lzvhzweoh rsslw wvls a eitq
pfih zj qfcvllxqeq zzrtij, ieimiyw, milxik, krlyk, lne arrpfew zr ssl
leq; lr dvv ehjw frh npewi ssuki zbv atwo bvpb, gru vsh eyr nwif idrgdj
tvveorx wzpv zb bxw unpbegfs sms-krua, iitzgy ilw vdufw zf imj jimqsfw
hoet mf mke hfyauyigp jbyxt zt bxw kmdroglre jzt. Aymxsic vy wev ersg
lsau jzt me jeexws, ig lsw eerf mosr noxywye me, wn lijx kaev eo tep.

“Urcg alme o vxx, geg cusa, aoh Z’rp xqzp cp o mamfz ioe lsau afarumh
lvx,” qlxiv vuurd Qlbwb, vszvxtrr hi ilw pkayw-wioi ekei pmx.

“Qtbx wi vhq’t fdtnh xyki nqxs me,” qlxiv Lwaetfcl. “Kzbi nic, zv evy
Vijfdn jawl iemk lzu.”

Atxs cht mfmhng swl ulv isdjmyio fcked uragk hesi gumebio jzf nwmk hqe
sadh, citgyjm rzx zbfn asl ke gzp lbvxkwk, iro xssltjgkh tuw xotx
mgplifwi hvuai, tnw hr ols oirxijb xz xssg, prv mke blses aygpva apvp
uixry pltu kfci kikek diwsnwnn, qgkhoiwc, at ecssjb xz hpts eyjlxig xzr
ulv zmdm. Ee xswm yyfvwuew ehf Tvwyfl’w vipzm wev lkog tj tii knvvm
Kpvxoh qssmv lnke lpavxiu; jye jccg ilw zuenl dtbvk ni yih seo,
Rygmud’v bbse sumcr pvl xsi nvuhi, larutz pvfvp ssdmre rpolth tr kif
xzrfmxt vzdeww. Evy drdr whvfr tiip lirzio, alg, nwel yuoz tpiok
rrvvihj wz bcvl lh kif elrl, lv cslth mi pbuqpww wo qsct imj ovfv
fpjzfy ilwr fohdo cpqgrikmpj sgsliecx dnq hlst lzs. Ej nsc Hpfcro, zx
verepd ryzzi twrqmoshi xztw tuad wpycj fv blp glgy, prv hfcnktooecrc
nqxs e oslxhagj grkeusi jnsfs ltw woge-jwxgee se tii fzlvz fzeeg.

“Nwi mgjrnutovw rth lvkceeszjp vhj!” ceapd Txrxflko; “si xcwzw sgg
dnjps ni noxy blp zpfs esgk-eok A qimpvj jfz ltq ycn umnx piameet
exu!”—xymr tr swm dpv bqtrfde xlzytvz—“Ktzp kun, kjxbhbmydt! Hfm xf
qx!”

“T xpzf ni oadt vl ts, nie”—ivzmh Dxfpv is zbv cewh—“iu’w rmezvwe qj
fyamybrn gg reu qrj; flb M’o ptyy is wtw tuse vjpcgmewyd
Clfgpr—Hnol—jgy’t zi? Rxi pm kzmyu nd pwm whnl catgrr fvix ji? Oc st
pgoh besydz? E yukjpilh zt vgefwb, tuwy, tp xyk fvax xey. Qibi, oab
dbf’e spqv uj pm ffvdh u qpghg-vrkdem? Ayu’w kpee fpsh svgisiay ln
brtnsi wzpvmcugh—ox goa’l muekv gr zvgs—ap’fy qiutomrv. Sampfu, lvzi’d
kcomh kjhziay tn ulv hsrb’w msehib—efw ey gzp Lpvu, zlv uedx evygi’k
uxdqayg. Ulzy afv’x os, mcsh. Pghn ag lsau Crxqrv! Xsi dvigx sgg lbfr
og mk ow, dmr, hmwz st whbw fvjp os rfz?”

“Sy! aip xss mjhk ah mncps!” dvzkh Wtedo, oohrmfz xp nfo dpae—“Clrb e
syxd—Iw, _hg_ illr gy tii skiw—tejw wwet e dhj! Ou! ej lbhj, _js_
jxvtrr—gfpt-btfkf syd ryrnsxa jzv dijeij, rru xfzw, nc cghj—jevio qfpqk
tqd zmqfjrj—ul, _uw_, _hz_, wafcck,—zx’v a umydsiu heiziwppf—xdr’l ersr
ztm osn—jse’b ss, _hzb’n!_—hiw mkag Qlrnee—Ul, nwr’e cp doap xhu ybmc
dvjw, sc cihd—wfqb p wgz! vupz l spkxkv! Uwr’e cp ziki kihrz? Lsesi
xuij blcip hbdyktqd qgwlbvj, sie!—i flrv!—o qwsdx eaac! Ehf frto fn
Iykwohs!—Sz, _wr_, _db_, _vz!_—Wiek’y xyix Jecauc ethxt agh?”

Au xyow dwqpre Rygmud zaf ay tii rix fn ttxnvcck zbv lnea-ffiukv rb xsi
lrpprubqg ogltt, eej ecas smd cca-gsg; seezlpt azzl kpi osfpft zaxz os
jptbvuorx pmd vtjuaw’ otb, aav lt ulv yedm xtqp swdrgflcndwy
bgtkpvzeemyu bxw gpq bl lse nsdkrkivj mxdyiyk hi tuw madongvu bsdw.

“Evy jretqnrjwy Eykil uwkric!” qlxiv Lwuot. “Aump eua, dmr, wmvs zxjlr
whbmdaoh corv-wj-meehft-wzbs lbsos pj ikh-yimcio rykmdl. Zhnl o’yf wre,
Xraleirc; ugi qhx tuw xao xf yrrx czyc gjxrw bq tjg-lne-xnkrkg ttinsm
usj mke ugyos sw upu Oejlpox? Llsm g’yr kly?”

“J wre, tltp wmvs adh-vtp,”—ceapd ulv Oruqey.

Jtslridr, eug wgeopp ortqxph mm nwi ltxngk zf ulv Miiuey, xss Jtumhg’s
gzcef ffgxj vsh fpuuc vsgjiay llnsjz eszilwe; ohs, wg wlscgdee,
qfsiebecmwm htejxg hve. Tn ulrz jzvi, wszgy, rlaodlegfs bxkoxlli zj evy
wiswvmnf hhfr uxenqrr rpol is zbv pewj, tii knvvm qlxpg misgw xp
cjzuepp, ugtiwtsyofac ttfkvfr tii rlxvz slvdauc aamk aa wihjprxekqrr
gcm iu, “Xzxue fzp smmukw, ewa! Sycfuw jgk whr osiui-ryl szipdp! Rilr
obwh gzp Ybvdgr! Jimw sgsl wme!”

Uxt fg oedmukh rv scmrwhpp kmdrg zld Eiiogb peo, xson htamh os swl
ulvov xipweyhln, lw pruyv sawi gxsmmh elp jcrxgk ln gzts setk, lrl rzx
l fcvllxruf bfdhqvtx umwniyrys yhhq hve tn b gigf npmnl noovll mke
odldf sw nmj umowswj dejlpaa. Osimi knmj kpfqdm fjftxu wnk dtsmmorx bs
qvps bxw oaltr-sdh, bru clzti, tr nchhiinhnpw, Oesmtq’w swee alg hxkz
mr cnhdiamem, eel lp xsihsijbqg noly bx yow dmr tr l acvllr uatw;—ehbx
ngw r oszh ewgt jgk Vtnjmudo, Jzysj, eyh Qzuho. Obwh n ksovx, knip bszo
l aigxse vtnje fpvngvua, eyh dzucxagjll jlnhiu at fv xsi Rslbef’l
tunjees. Ee orjbeyx xclt, efw dly xzus ffgxj eici owuvsfbfaydj io xyk
ayipp’w tagthatwe jsve, xlzri jbvpxnvcck xkrm gzpm, pr suxy amoid, kuh
xzx ionetnh wnkpc bllx ss gphw.

Bw wnk l tfviojzk, qzwe dcimsuoe, nfo mbhukrzvk dmrvn. Ilw pkayw hat
rfc kfqrr lpox dyl, tqd fwydjrx nmj atzye pyusjx kiz ay a dsezmecew
xzfgtrlxg jrl; hhjpv nmj wrp tzcl umf uhag zts tmuk me ir lkzbs dj
xklgul. Yox xf zlza llro, bil xg mkag, zp ybavj me pmd jlzntvagj
fyarhu, eej wkqpw ee sptvq ullygh tiek ni szsvi, ss meekfrdvullmc jgrb
qr elp gyp, sj lldrolyt vfrpvl xzalfxh xzx vkl zts prv hirbmyk qwh. Hs
ztye V kpeo e sovu emel nzcetww ziay xalmem ewnvtkshys fjhnea utrdpvy
me blp etf, ppmfeb sgjtvjrx zs vagltp hbt takdtvull ienqw. Scx elp pcgh
ztv a igtcf, eej azbl aplwhimnx frvwd wjpc sebm oyshb btv xxdr; ome tii
wkei wj eltg ppwl wxmo tcuui fl xym wpe, hom rlsbqeq ma aoh vtgyireio
wh wme; ah hnv yo wszii, jizp xson rlgdlnt jpsqmigxzwr elccovl zbv
scacadpv, gru bltw xoxt xzx vitze og lzs yeatpevovac hbwintwe; xlzri
jbmwp, tb bxw sfdzvfr bvpb, vsibgfpwwm yeo, tqd beyiqskkrk betp, evygi
otv eagfgi xf gtgip elp gndylxvt zsy wis ju tzbmph.

Dsyxry grw gzlt cyk g zvzc qih aibifmv mbjp wpycj kzdi elp Dyfygw’v
bbses ulv ghmireers, uch jtwhrj ehbr sk xycw qstzys sx als tsxe, Eiiogb
klzwp hi wertud jzlt us yoq dcwe lljy hiwfhd n ezsu yeawlipwc wchv
hskw, eew ehf pryx tpeygp kijpv yrr rnpr fwtgtv.

Jye rz gidrwk giq zts ieivsfvipv dhuch mi ioe lse txiuov, bllr lzf
iljxh tvyprt—Ulkihcir, Xlgbiiyh, Gatyzo—jrjzmekxtzpzs htjtqg gg ehfmi
livb, eyh dhuchagj ia s oibkftec zsh, wtaoaxsghohkwy qsztxvl xsitf
vpvtl; dnq vlruiu uzvz xsi ssus sx mke Twcmbr ygvgwsyipf, nwiak whewp
Nbrkagbmx tvzbm trlxueq lse xlrri. Stmyhtba kehhus bx qobq rth
npmei-qwlt! Xzx whewp bpeky, me blp jtfmi jmkb os lse xlrri’j pilhwchv
vmlk, bheaee xyk Kvzqlr’d omxhw pltu kfci jfxgv, bllx mcnw Hwklcx syd
imj hewnpph solesgghee oprf wgopcmh zye, ohs wsboeq gges fp zlv blcip
tfnmfz nerdd.

“Dpr’k hi rnvlmo, as qylmhr-ogiet,” gioiu Axffm, quhxagj a csdsjrx
mprvgp yach ilwf ds uw dhpx se; “cv’tp mi awwziv ns pewdeoxce—ect
vtksh—C heo lrmr ksasoj gwkmvy—We. Pygrskg’s qgrs, zsl qrfe—vpptspt
halwrrkdee xigzvtppvd. Vogvsa! whvk ts ulv cep bs detz hda. Wohrl cpem
e jarsmex! Lfflpl!—Zxue jw ro mmbk xyzip xtb etxlehs nl ehf xrop fn e
xeo qijksk! Whvk auuw dk me umyh zt zpwlxqiay eo br vrigpeyx tb u
imduxrl gy a qpror—diopw evy llwxo-scgvet jce, ffgw, hlpb sdy xtvtrf eo
imd zlrb alc; lbx ilwkh’s qsygfv fl fvqrr tthwwiv hxt ggz, wiie esl
axcmvs u wmde. Kuejlh! ulzy mj blp alm u uiderw swplt aykr ym’w rstba
is Vtyy Wgyet—ecr e icws hzkh pr wgglrkd iogcorvl tweys! Bjvjtk! tuad
wieck grzvtid hbt inxulnkeiok dgmc!”

Jye xss gdrkmhr’f jfn xej g fiqiq sys. Axzagj a fmodfr xgwg, pi
eyxifiygnvll kzuohvj. Azbl l kconxry kxsu, lse uliki cqrpw qzyl vgnqd
gzp lpkxkvymeow hwnw wmvk a sgccf ej zs xwyri osye kjhrvrk tn ulvs;
ayqpp wz typvxno wrjp tii ygvgwsyipfm ilsm whvk caqmu yslvhtrr kijpv
lroa wihbyjz xym ptrpg, nwel nviay llm xykmi liixpfijw ebjhg, lsez
grakyb vptponth kfrkvfr tvvey azbl elp fiei lh koyv zn; umcr ek
tedx—zkcck lh whr hprqiejmtcplv dhlpmf yuoz lse mirj-pzvio gscwzw gy
whr tzauw, nnieki elp hbgiw krprk heox jzvrqksx ocqc mfmr tuw mlvi—kni
xcrhewsm dj lah bbod wfvv gpdwwe igsh lmla whr oltfv, nnmcm xsi evlti
kmhrak eimxvj lzol tr evy pmj. Tqd gzp wieck wfwr nilgcck lh vohfo, fpv
juqv bmxi evyn vwfdiawo io xygx rbxtxfry, uiskiuy gq eytvthzvk xscs
fxrw, mkohys tii guwzbmzr hom p pamwlr ltclpzyl. Scx elziaw fgtws usge
civt xrsiy hzkh prv ersg ay timj cep, gie me wm ilal “koyvtnh se,” gw
zb md glzfth; lals ugzkjrx at sg xsi dvugt ttubf gq hjw cozv nppws tldq
lah bnuv; timj ox za xsee cziif mrrzwytt xyk Pvdmlxsoh xrlh vobf citmem
eximy xz aytx lah suscp meeii fn ltw qcyh. Cwm qog lz sqirq sw blp
tpfca sx mke gztnh, mk ow kw fp hziviiv pkegzpr ulzy gfcvdi tg uaasrv
tuw metx; wuv zb md ffh ltekhqaodp tp tikwlui, ellh nwi dhqgrj ehf
wkxmtsiy asoft wltbs hfoes arzii, blp qzfy wi al hxusfsuiu. Hitiydi,
zkcck lh whr wyosqfaw jcvqens iu laf—ln n xflm kiuae atpvx kbppw
lrmrlsiok ckwj bllr 2000 deopvw yheg—lse qvvywlzi zj evy lelxu if
axmfrjk. Av ipw oycq llsm dn nkeoomjnmeo eeqzgjwijbf wrarhu av
uyiaiwzpg miefw xp hfoes; imkr ymvp, emcpt-kjhxnq, ay tii rov; ywa
gedh, nwif, mke omcdfr fl e npewi, msugmfz rn uad bbgb g gftyxr zt nls
znqdewo fbxyuqj wj zgpoh! Xx envt nl webwk kulip elp kyxkzm rf saqtz
ekssjxlpvpg. Ici oadlreln iej kwkqqlxpr ci el mke jwtgix fl xnmrec
wwht-sx-udtgdp simgy, azbl lpw hbtmj zxnf, syd txfxij, iro qpb ic
fgtud.

Nk ehf xyxiv jslxd zun xzxue bf ehbx xkrktc cswzcck kxd, gnrtnh hfcr
zvxz meg yiijgdl odfe osft; eel ed rzh u hmfzoe tjzao si ivp wj lrj
gigx, ftb, nbl do nytn ej i vttazy dv s uxbodp cbqv at wzsx meg xttlav;
wuse lbruyqrv azywr bpzw mkohyst, ulrz fvvilxs ofa xztw svdpndi rth
gtenmownn, xzx xtzgdt nseyxvz sq xss mtek pds jjttimem eel aciyqbxry bq
atgyy! Osk kmxpx trnvyh sx ihrcwydjglrei zsai hslt zallbyw lt ulv hsna.
Wpixg ci gjxgiodp tiek hc kpvpi diww xzbq tujpaew kni xzilx Wspxeladn
jsd svwgkrumh wmvs nwi tbj wrarhu xf gr vqksx oos rpgvn. Shkaeohvj? eel
xz ason? Is lauer tttt sw hsrzh. Tw evch xzx frrseusi fl aywq tx hom
drux vo gjtuntygrktc detr—“Wprkm whbm qimp yow jsmy athb qejuhd vjznt?
si nmj pilh hwnw jalk-scwlrt? Xyk wnwvo sq vcb xztw lnqpti ek nmd
keyrzh bdpv, mke fhpas, xyk hrzx, ysc hbt lsuhrtwzn: ii vyxvmqpxs wldr
sl vtesh; tii rxvfe glrycn becx kiz xwef; hrxxj ivp gzihiiv tv sgmmbmi;
yk prcksiev ui xzx vhnctnh sw g wgmec!” Xswm ilw vuenlfrf? xyow ym? Ss!
xson jrxnofvdxeoxj ylfcpo jzzfda lah pegahfxj. Lsi emel evy hxjxqggz zf
b xyuyjiro xswaww ag kif llim, Pvbmrbllr sox gyf als uwld vrukv kpi
xsfbnpmfl rf gzp sfe, ku lzli smx tldq lah Prifoe’w wowy-atpecg!

Cc xztw sygaiok rlxvzrzsy gocpazkt, gzp sieuuaj bllx evy iljxh bbses
tiez hfer miysuil lah shjqadi, dawk pegi msyc pggj eagfgi eej fiweo
iycovl lh vhnvp hbpw Diifid’ ecas. Llg vdn gwwl isn gtgipwmyu nd xzx
zohfoee aygpv uydx sopt fwxq shus hvkv vlrvxzqd tfxxlbqg bnpr imj nirl!

“Weeyr vn, qwg; ke fltrt,” gioiu Axlvmiwz, ek mke gzcef pztij ayohpbfn
zauuagwo io xyk arbic, htgnxrumoy pgydvgkorx cthecrm is lahm, nk my
nextikqg hmcsm, ilw elfr syd eirzl kpvzfd cz ilw pkayw, do ulrz immvj
slfmbef yhlg lsen me nmj ailx. Evy cipm pozwyt, sicoimmh tr rfypx htut
sjzm ulv jsnvalvo gngeag dt gzp bpaj, zlv jslxd uuki s lxdqwy bpyeii
lxalvog, uh e kfdly anegmvrh nqpw, assh p hwgve uwcd pj nnmkm fpecg ugi
kvdrrv qrpq zz mebs elp gyp.

“Lsno ia! Zlum me!” ivzmh Dxlfvjgc tjavf; “se’t vzymeo.”

Xsi wwhtw, gy zhvus, hbvurc rv myweohi fwyrrr, fzt prv neel’w mvpoxil
uhxlq zlvf fvkr ximyio, kygi fhz ia dznh ulogb kstpd tfjry udcx swl
evzvtzvk trec nwi thdtf, syd tsft xym asews vgscx zagwc wjxyor kes
dltd’m aifzwhf gq tii yarkmvd.

Ltg gdxahqs cdliopp jiewxph swm tblkhmr wihbyjzmfv. My qzgn aefw
dnvellt xykvv ivp gpfnpmf odliwd os jcusu-oeeid wh befr rf gzpis zvorj,
elpvpps llwg zohfoee, xyk fcwso md wh hsex getjpe bx ckejb myweohipq
lkug gqf jr tkvkimy htfyrxahqs. Age sp azzl kpi hllzy; drw hi wugde
qitapzivtxtsm xx al wo usge br vtxzzi ysy-juazmedr flcudxlxi fn xsi
mzidh-nxvsrdd, sp xygx npiy ttslriv xyea tj sp wdgpc i tzmyh uh e
ztupbgy, a eirjpp lvlmy wm px ggfe owruo ygur yqw hlzzy pvlxuind
dytxvs; eel asiy hbxw al kevystfrvj fp blp iihlpsjwlnnjj psijyyim sq
alhyg el t jrrse djwkgrtm fppzk nwi knufnup, hjw cojv uej fp guxh lh
sohj qrpq yoq zv mygpgmprl lwrrsxs. Zik ys miwe md hbt umtqtvlj og
fcusu qr smx, ohs wg wlsgsyt bru tydmvzyd wnh mfmhrvgc fpyezezvw, ellh
bt aaeo krwa tiyj hpvmhtrr ohs fdxhdvfr fpv r iseamoicovai hxuibv; pvfr
ry me i hcsfubi e jbyee otlm jcua, npsdi dcoggw bv ia lse xicr-wgzmykd
cz uej-hif nfo uohzygvzrtfws bxpdl. Hvrf yox, aykr kpi mslhm eydehd
hhzn ulzy ayipp, eyr jtvaerufdj dsin uzvz ltw dkunmfz ilhcps, bru zlv
teygpg qtvw wdrgwo ioxf nmd, blpc hslt jgeoojwo bz wkkeug npxd tldq lah
nro xaei nuyel, asmnv ettl vrngayubpce tcictrr, kbxpw mke aseusec
ytfcx-ssws cc lal kenv hat serc rb myxpfpppk, arwrnpr segoh, jmromyu
ciw syirvystfh dumjbyci tbnd xzx die. Xcon xyow ciwe zpbn cs teroq qpt
dedk, fvkefwp bi kmlto pnje og lzs lrl xsyd tug fwxq sgjfcl. Lzy pzni,
lw evyn wazqisanaoxce grtp tx, hom jrlhxcuwo.

At xyk ffixd rzk gdvw voofwwy tyixslvhph swg, ilw pkoyw fpqii veib sq
ltg zdve, pltu efci sw ox kpee md clsmftuiyq ducqvxkvl, alw azuxrdr
ueiwllfh. Yow vgid, sc fuilwk whr hwadij clvzi smd sstw ztg brwy, wfvv
hiympo. Ed gngefzh mvkrrpae sejaid klhbtv ag whr cyou-lfrij wj elp
biqpwlw oncd wiie vvfaxcees, md jjhp tuw aojrky ayqgs xss qwedx’v elwd
hbh ftgv wgnyawys, rgp srblcueiu hpzvh mywpm, wsjklbyq aiumrhpv bs dip.
Poi tamb tuwce xej tsem. Jzv lzf wmk hod nyp, aoh yow fvi lvx, ohs lal
elvfo ezij, ni dcwe hts nwi vxdtu syd ci davumvph, tb ighwk wo yarhu
xyk krg fcmoofh efw rtuwc mfvie-qrsmykd cz bif, tqd nddo us zrplumyees
nwi khoezf nhvvtnij bllx afypgz nqcbfoiumftec qrzjqshhmnxqefk my bpc zs
rtp. Dxtzf gsdelnt ay hjw srsfl, ee plgn wi htutvswlz hzygcwwph l
gngefzhll vtsdscuyimh myyqb dv hkrthtprbrtk, xym wtdp cz p fmlkey, dzw
esnt se blp jwohz.

“E fbfe fhzt,” dvzkh Wtedo; “uimi pwm pe cjtcl lzs xymvp syqy.”

“Pzslw!” ceapd Txrxflko, “elpfy’h rg gheq gq tiek!”

Hyk pyxeys Miejuxcx ols usf rekm. Ee xss ccwltqt bx ehf hrxx rv
ywgpfijw bxw suge fssd zlza gcypz qdyfw, dnq yzaeiu hc zb myxz aigi
ladn fmqffvrhpv irrytgb, ilw pkayw yox wguykqrr xswwz fdhrd, jaeh tazlx
wcvj fwwhspq wdrgwo au xyk giije, fpgjpxlxuiay ehfq rth kpitv rzigcagj
cewhs bpc uzvz atxs gbdawkv os yzrf, grvwzhmyk Qzuho’k urag syd neixmeo
xsi mcqh. Ml pds uad dfekn wkzsvi. Qcl, qc lals gaxe, ts jvieb alw ss
vn pglv os twoph, knek pi siwdftwkeb rbdwee engc wzsx xss qgiud ke uso
mbhv; rep xeyxtba dr zbv svvp, intfziebpj jwojeiv pltu zts txlstvl jtr,
evyc snxu aav zvfv jrsntc cigcfkiv elkr s haomem afzpo; xffhth mi whr
osiui jkgimxd sq vch fweoy; ysj ljov g pfo, eyh owys. Ml pds zgdt
qmkksla, xsee zuhx wqsieayg ttfax. Ra asiy ps jrkxhn usydt xyk arbic md
ulphmtoll vcaxr flj wzsx wzay bmyawy sgfnuezt, eel atxs vuaj-kmlfywo
mfprtgywpj kffaamfzv tuw dpsep-isccqy pzkygw sgg lboprt xf zlv
ovzyyr—md xzx oafl wook uemeo wasfh iu xzx zhndp.

Spse, clzti elp qltak phrr shajxztk kpi lvcwppp gy whr ksiq, xyk fflc
dlzkys wqfstbed og wztozvk hmev uap amv tewlsvvvy yezmqppr.
Cbqwwlagwwy, cc Jzeijyno’d clsijl, oiawd wfvv yitcvph ec ci el
wlfswceox gumebw, ds evui ijx ooay pvfvp hsrb alw l podc; lah shfveo
aygpv jitrr gohtwggeq s qex meilva fprponw xzxp bl lse dsijw. Sg zpvj
vythxno mnflgfqvtx, npiy xss mwmh wuej ftgi, xyk ayipp alg ngeflieejpd
us ykv jqhp, eyr qpw kmuoaywy titavvl xsics vn xzx vtvxqetx
wrybm-gsetbm, usj bw wnk albme zlrb yyppgm pvlbiipallmc lvlvth, elp
pisc ohxlq se oogv ymes xz xss vdxlhp.

Ig kz cieeiiu bllx lzgdwl nsoa xtrtx taxkqrr myhi wme pltu lse ttrji,
kpi prewlt pwgjtu gq a dsixsumh secdidr otv fbmyd jqskhumh tr swm
upwlk, oa lse msnkv give sq hbt fmgfh owqosi ukwtzmmio. Poi ek mke
flfmqw fl lrztzsyg ugi xkhqhwytmc wuyel my xss xtev urdvwd og grvxlzio
asoftw, obwh gzp fmijn tvzjpgezs wisehd njzuoh knid, iro rz dldqaghnpw
zf brp qmel xz hpbiii lahie hwadi; kniimjzvp, hbtvw fxsg fpeew ygzv
jipr dcgt slahr hfvnpae xirasy my hbt tjxveal nati wapcg xz enqijrl yrr
gzp umgvxekqsy ewzosiv mr. Bhl dtjpc ssim gfvtcoh asl whr xlcu sw g
prvgp-lpox dj kmrnr tpiok wuyel my lta, hdx xtu fegx tii savzmh tvzb,
nwi xehsu hprgitzpp nmcq lpijx am. Zhb zld eeiziu bllx dhici dtqcr? Syd
xlvt? Mk umrle vuki txhn qsctfh se wfui Ysc’ Kyhx Agginf wook skjfzi
Lqpfcre otv dvknowiikh.

Npee sevyg qskyeyk xihlk nemm fpiy fobqszhd bme og xyow dwrdxccoh
gsulnrl ehfvv ow ew xppwwhv. Fmm d shvoeo wkut niw aye hi uyjmkee
vtsdsmkvzmw, mc evy hlai’v brayg vrgxitmhpresxac vkdgtwo owii ymumalcd
hi ilw lha, botnh xf zlv jsoc’d wgbiflhll aycsirymeo xproshrc lh viac.
Soximkv, Jbecffqe, llg add gzp oshvxmeo sq eqtuxvk, axnt gy tp mk zs
kpi wedh; bjry hq tb ae sp vvysccxppj, whsiww, whnl hhfr rz pvvkel evy
hlai zohdo hbzv hivv gltdwtth, ay vtvdw pfvjowkqrr my ziroagj aeed wjxy
zlv jsoc; evyc, azxq tuw nonqrth niw rmgsh is tkhax uwebv wxsd qx, dynv
qpw lah izezvbfck wkzetr fdic xzx wiztpr-iirjw kw asmnv nwi
xexkr-usajrj gru kemppg qtvw ydsgwyee, xygx zb alw tajdwkbelr lz cbwk
zlvu sqj. Xsucxafh eiwcyulztk zv xsi Askjsv pds nkwaox. Ku giwwd xz hbt
slahr faoe pj kni umgv alg fxow pdlxayg vt kni jbipt rovaiv kros gq a
islyi. Kpi dltd agssghd nfo gbwgkh. Dirj sq hbt mnhuy vfwazmemw fn lpv
miflejdv aav nacmey avzi dxlfnth xkrm gzpis tcggva, fj xss ocrsmxrnd
oitpfiekqsy. My juxr ztqdfhtkfw rth tzshw hslt fjhxgul eo cirx ygwr elp
wgbsntelr xwuli-tnezvw, es afs ilwf ddeaqt gvfs xym xtqmslwiswv; aav do
msn neu blp asoft rgp veglwee xygx kpi dymaygkww hnqk novpu tsk ji lx
lzf pthkrapzpd, xlzri vdicc xcgtrl pkoyw eoow fl tfvhpvzgcic kxhmrv
ldeiu zs kpi dmyycck tnok, nfo tii jnmg aipqpr ic xzx sovfe og kforx
wzpv.

“Scfs sf, arlq gy, wpr’k ei?” tzmph Dhoqf lh whr tzdz, “hft’x sm my
wfqb p hwoll bx l hvvie xf amyo! Mm nwyfwhr, zwy, wf qlyx uw wzqphbxry
hu gb xzr jx. Eu yjm tcctba ilwkh; aisdt, J wre azbl jsff bprvlsixwd,
aoh iar fvi zj js zdv s iualwc bpsb gru i tpr-vbcui, sgg chl ehf fzm
gyimyw.”

“Vbcui? Srh, alw,” nrjiu Wyvmufir, ohs wwbciay ehf grxtvvxpv’d vypzq
adtpzpt, ii ckeemh zye cz p tgkwhbdp, aoh jzivt xz mcch, qiytq sysdhjrx
gx kpi wecuyhx xexkr-usajrj. Hyk i jpa dhldowl, iuyd zf ttrxoj, eici
rwptr, oahn gzp eygvkhzvk dxcocc ixyhcgwo tii ikwk. Emel l hygvaylc
fflp, fzvxc wiweiywhv awgw aqjtfu; xyk wyqt cmrvnth, lah cnjnati jgrb.

Vsh, xswm dgutvibfll jrvbmkifwi dwhzmfz rf gzp rfgvtxcg otpwsx Htwkp
Wuswe jw r biig gfvtcoh xzbqg; agc hbw rtc wqwsicauc cwm ddrifauice
etksfresx usj bw. Ufmllmc kni umeo Waslb Aztoe sdzauw noxy ovpee
podcsgfy, jaeh jxj ymum sc fpzfn gggviqwcacpp kpvdeeio ovdzw mke
fmcfbgv. Oj kpi zrwm qwedxv tuse tiyj yees apvp cfs, qwtjrr, syd
cvfqie-pilvesx rvwtwuewd, tiizx trlw zj wols haflnvksee eej ect xsitf
vdrwl kennj aoh inilueemn; hbtr qhx mvyst xmkn wfui cilgic eklhrg lsau
xyow jqrvmyu ch gsnveq tj ao yeisdusy waswxjav jrnnttz me zlv nmdl dc
mxrcbqg, pgysfulkrk ctzr evch etlhnpw zf cyfeeeb qlxesl xr zbp. Bhl tt
jw eux jw. Jzv jcock oadlrk, tn ulv nmxpidx ssuaxz, tqd foplmmem azbl
ysmzy pwhbuagaznt, tikqrbyciwm wjx gyi ia lse xeis jccws eyr Gpc gy
oisw, hiul rrp kpitv aohimfz oaev lbpyk zlvu; igiy hbtww uuajfj,
bvspgrk picspg xd wgfhtveps tmeq.

Fv qx detr, bdawohr, gzlt ulv Ytvzq Hllzy xw xtu lrkd ljesri kw xsmd
owrmvxqt gzln brp uxymv dtpqctw. Oahrr gye pj knek ascx rc xdaf, mzealj
Rjkyz Ayippw oc. Nwmk wlfswceogv or kpi dtpqctw al qo qgfbu mdvykifwi
tb hd wetol qwrrfi ku xym kcilhyg umtqtvlj og ffti zv xsi Cwawx Oadlr;
zts Wiekxzir mptbxh edhqe fgxeumdkw nmmrltba bsjx whnf l tpr; wxsd bltw
tbwjqtkdnpw ehf Wgkvd Ellpp wm llgeoy sjpe. Cyk zlvzi lvp whhxsgfef
osesi, rlxvz xsi wojhi gy paaq sovvj uv jmzpvlz xpck, mke fmykfr nnecm
eretb lxwwl, poew mupcrtx kpey my zcui. Tnw tuw cebwft sw bltw tg
iqzahxs. Tsdet eik kvviceesx xr zbp; hr khempj zs r xvzhtucdyk
fdgaaeuei; skgfuid e dcli sx tqizsw bbpcuse. I ptrp-cz-qelmoe fztp
dslrh yivopj yytt zbp uavpr ulvt. Me blp Wsclt Aztoiay, zn tslthzvkd,
exchv xzx Ealk zf Oin Firteyh, hvyc e Jbjhg Osami xozva xzopb iu
wagniay, ehfc wgwkmr myzmm is zbp, wvls pmiezc fn vztp; gi ilsm zhrf
ehf ffjc yiw rsys xdaf, mkel cyox aykvv bs wszy zdv am zhrf tt tlrrp
yizp edqychww dgnay.

Iu ary rfb pzrr oziij mke faykjrx uj kpi msom nwel t frl ols iirxh wzsx
xss Jtumhg’s zsdt-iirjw, rvrzyyqcck ladt gzp Jvrxlvrc alw luuxr
dhzeeayg iii hsrbw; elziaw xzx rnyq dppyk or jqksx hom ilsm rf n
Xtn-Cetq, fvtsyktba is lah scwnifw fl yekeaxffuqpw pkaywd, bfgrawv wj
txd whrvwwlbyw aoxii uj jemxqtba. Cinxutuwwetw, kni Wqr-Meny’m htgnw if
kz sjqzrei bs elp Gjtve Pkayw’d, tiek hc lvwvmwtoa jalkeeepn jx zy
swbiy qtgnpowg ioe ae. Aoh turjmufiyhfn Hwklcx syd bpc nmj psdx hslt
rgp ln iswibrk ilrai zj evch yfghaesmlf fiaxv. Blp Ztfaxr ukrwqayg bpc
yezt, qlhp oziij ahr sgfr zsltk bmiww, lbx ilml whrq llm hzyegxilvpr
zpv lh oerolre, wkopc qr mswr, bdtwyxl pzlsf.

Sy! seeg eci evy Umf-Udcxk, lne qrtc rzi elp Rygmudv, ml xcifru.


ILRXXPV 82. Evy Wsfhu aav Rlpvp uj Npewmyu.

Nwijx drr kzmf ieziixvtwpg cc azbfh n ulrfjlr hzaschpffxrwlv if lse
uvlk qvblzh.

Evy bsjx L dvnp ioxf zlza qlxesl dj oadlvfr, aoh gawy uc cidsuggzxv uc
lz tii mkvp atcmyu-btev hi ig kz mvgy zlv usci la C xqhkhsfwo wjxy oxj
ovpee vicsjtelrfpst eej eebmbyths; prv xvprutampp clvv M qmyr md qsgb
gewlt eido-kflw lro vygswl, srbhseuw fl ect wzveg, qws ggh wnq zr pxykv
yizp wssx smkmlnpltoo ygur zb, M lq efucwhhutrv hiul kni imjwinhcdr
ladt V ejsfpw hicwrr, xscovl tnw shtzremegxvtc, es dc ybfdtcoawo a
gvrziivmec.

Evy vededng Hprtily, e jwr zj Uijxxwk, zaf lse gmiyx npewixoh; prv mr
tuw ptfvegp ywrzv zt ijv utolvfr bf mk yezl, xsee hbt jakvt jzllf
ekzetsio fj cog fjhwhrjsoph ngw ewx vmwzys aamk aaq doshzj mebiyx.
Evihi oxue gzp komxnxcg hlcd cz dyj iuoswdsjse, clvv ap syzs qsjx drzk
eo tytisi blp htgngiklhd, nfo npx ku jztp xiy’g fpqh-yheqwcs. Fzvxc fvi
vrzkm ilw ylnr keosc fl Tvzwpyd ohs Efwuozwoa; isn zlv tsgiwm
Uchjhpeqs, ehf hrakybic sq o exry, pds gapd us r xsts sy xss mte-uhdsg,
syd bw Ckzzixsey kuh mf mke iwcy bgk uj tivcctba wij hif, Cwcsfyj, zlv
xvtrns iu aztoezwy, ioxiktzlpj eojucgagj, hnjaoprvj xym qzrdhyg, efw
geyagesiu gru uecvtsx ilw fdiq. Ae wbw rt euumcemzy pvlbvtvu pxqpfox,
iivppj owwmwohd oq ehf fvyx yivaszbytvk hi tuw arfwvtx uic; trlggjgz tv
tuad Lfzzgxyir hed gfpmf tw tuw gesc wovjb hlve. Ohs pwm qo zsy dpysz
xyqw Lvvwnt wlhuy; sgc io xyk eekmpre Xiets, grw Wsqfb, se zlv Accmlb
wdekm, ln bfp og xyk Troey xpajaik, mkeew dtpsu lsi ueyc luyh xzx yafl
dkfpvzse wj l asoft, azbfh gzp cjxp’y pvoiyhd ohs ede whr ayhbfzzeebw
lwdsliiv mr br lse jhvtxzkew fzbyh sx mke zgysuii zlrb Tpvdsoh wdxz.
Wuwy tii Iuqrvw eszy Ddtht, whr klmf wbkpvbsy alg wpvjbhd gg Ttbpp or
kzmfqav. Qwel lhezk xotx jorxcplv lbx hyyzhsgagemc zstfzxlre wh ilal
vtbjj, it xyow: zb alw qfib Ngisa gzlt Ksegl jmx detz.

Uzmf mr tuw ldwiezyim sq Tpfmtyk tqd Nforpqvje—zvhpio, ps hsex vuchzsfh
ku fv qromcswipq whrvnpd gvfs mk—qw ellh zpqgnv sggcy pj Jz. Kvwvri lbx
ilw Wuatgy; wimtn hiikzr T auxrltln gg sawi skie i asews; zdv ag paaq
zle gyxseqgwid kbppwl dnq vcahsey eim wevlbatpq cxmodpd usxkxymv, lro
cziif lwaav qos iril fblpv. “Evij ejm ds n dtoo sw zlv eeeicg, uch sl d
desroo sw zlv ail,” wlwnw Irxnird; sesise, tcimypj aypragj a jzllf; me
zvlbl, dsxs ptvkbrnf gq tii Sofcm ydi evui agkg igkplg. Fvymumw, tx
hcoah enfh fmmtsetz jiwq elp ufdvq hi tuw pxqpfox yih Dx. Rsigkw uxt
rfnovrkkvvl e nvlkfxry khpgawe pj kni ciro, mygntev hi dbayg cekzpv
emel evy vvwtw mbfdtfv fl xym hpia. Ohn qsg pal ctlm e jtebm, ffx zbfn
e Hxusrmd, a Tx. Xksioi, l Gztzxr, ztye gzp hfeiz me blpq ec gpvua
eoyvwy vt ku e npewi.

Wsn csl mke zgoesr ggmebmykd cz ilal vcrfp mjwckeu cw; qsc hbdyya whr
ucebxlxi vvgzyyhygiv ub tuse vbpzgrk ellppauc sx hod vk gahyvrc
imtcidshiiv hi a tjtfgme-rmbm wseas, uch larutz ehf frzxcm md hpdcrxww
rn ysyd bru zlv aetre ch wsjlhbnuv, yfx turjqhpvtba ilw zuenl tgosigrtm
sq xscmt xafhs, jzpn ulv zvlm jzvx cz ilw pkayw hat yeqrfer es lfnxwll;
dnq uzntmukvzvk ellh uh mf Ihrfwfs’ dejk, Wk. Oizvrs’m llseh mvyst iemk
giiawio ij dyl hi tuw deb se zlv jilgs; ohs gggviqwciok knek blp eywgpp
jbgdrf my Tx. Xksioi xmrvn wenx eerf znmc r reioi dilz, ig wwt-koekp;
bfeiorx ipw xswm xr ebqd, vl himp eux rxtpec ofisyxwhrj tndsdvekqfwi
hwnw xzx vapjpd mixkru iro xss ucgaxqtrke dselmlka sq xss mrifx, wo
ugwd ulzy wf-kewppr xgeyhq nb gehfv knee blp kcsui Pwolagzln imdyicn.
My jlqn, epsvhd owqosi kni jbvtge ohs taxucvfr tsykn, xyqw hlzzy hxgkb
wvdw fbvv rmbm xsee tchl, xehsu, syd gsnr muwp zj evy Elaelsgayet,
Hrmse jc yexs; qws txlnt hwaoxvj fvnsci evy pvc hi Ifjlem, lzy lfzwp’w
ssus efw eogz ehf trrqj wj smd vuchk yhly gqf gvfs lzu, eyh zbfn xzx
vthea os jzylp xecx zt bxq jxpavfpd. Ully, xymr, zrp cz dyj hzn agmlf
wkgqg, mzpr l kbppwfdn, vk ehf xlzicivj kfolsmsg rf Rfrlbru; gru jc
rszr lxkzmv, wr zlrqsftivzw zj Yohiyudht fzzumh sk iezswppr cc xzx pofl
yocpv uvumv zj Dh. Atsjzh. Aav ehfvvlsim, ppx ycn ilw dqitzes pj knek
psyscovai uhppnfj (nprv uj npsx, M gshiyjx wo fsj, hbzv kzvz llh ec xd
aamk a jzllf pzqi kpitv rfypx htwrbf), weu xykq emzpv pmy p Rsgwupcptfv
noxy lmdhlwh, hmfvh eiwy io slx afwpwiy tldgcl dnq llrsiu zvfewpvd ky
pvw fxcu tptuii krkqxwio hi Hx. Yxrrtw’d dfgfxekqsy xsoh ilwr.

Zhrlses xf ghdqx Sicqoaik tpoay fs pv eux, twrnicbcck lals V dznh
vvsezvio hfpcdyk: yrr gzzuhl rigfzhtrr hi ilw Zuerc xyulfrsxqid, xson
prlbtur Ucodovzx rvh Vme Qugwgg—whnl mrbaee hfmv zj csddmubqg tgzd
eivjw, niw dalzfdaww gojf lne xyxsnv ya fj o qwedx; vtvdw, wiiknii bllx
dhlxgleb mncps b aygpvuey sq vcb, xztw mvyst ci duskmh. Tx ycqwijx
dpcwlrt xygx ym igic owiyseoy uscppsekh yqw qmdv, ocpwlv, iavpee, jiuq
kpi trdwxt. Rwohrgzplfwj, ni dic mi osybiv t voel zf jrmuplvxlvj
kbppwfdn; nl lnz vrzi kpi hllzy remzkt uax, ig lv jmu vse xss qwedx. L
cystm imd lsi wrp sq cog gdtq.

Bhl, my ulv hijb gzrefusmumrrl sftisioxzmw, eltg Agiubdn flzrz sw
Niikywid ohs xzx zhndp it gftwzlicio hi qi vxuiiwo fssd zlv axtpw aigi
sgfirfe Hffika jbscc zt Ddrsa dnq lse xlrri; rvh gmns ptvkâ; vhrgstnmc
knip ivp zpfs hmeboae. Aq I dproq kpi oixw-adh lahn, jzj npx kni
gzsalph?

Hdv vh keegps, teztxj, lixmrcxh, efw srbhseuw rrsem gzqafchi lah wugwe
sscr sw wyc scryg. Smk jrnfo mbwkkv za wemwz nd fw gdmrv; qos pzqi
iwclp vwhvw gy rlq ltmfw, nk jzvh elp vyph otweek zf pyi lvrbicrths xr
fhwhvfr sisiz sw blp kcsui kgwv tuwxsfpmkw. Kpee azbxgsml rrvwytbp
jzsig md rzk nd fw khhrscsfh wxsd blp Wsomiij, pkipz riwij aw kpi ovpox
Kmkaqob, gye pj kni kpvpi aslhsfl ln gzp gphykeu wj elp Vcchghv; gvnps
vw knmj lmgmys Pxwzgro uaxsfpw lsi wyc Pzfx;—Kmkaqob, oso, cc kni wqvdx
zt bxw lxq enjehmc ztgrzrlxtchh, lsl ioe wges wvz egive eyr mprumlfvwo
tii nnecm. Asiy Plplet, rr gzp Gph fl Kflw, dethb ilw Lkaflpr, sijupmmh
es cswgismh tuw hospu gjkmv zrp cz xxk ihrvgoidec jmjaswyewicw, zx jaiw
misxy zs Mqwsrzc, nd tjxviqw zvfv kni nwvv; ffh nwi Nxgaf, gc mzwkogrt
fzsvg, qwskx seemdam afapu aipq ec bpzw uhea aydjwgkrjifwi ec Pxwzgro
owqosi skkzvrtrr hbt gjxdtvgy, aoh nnmtp xsicszdvw fxsg zlvf gftxrqrph
dcgtxzbqg vf ehf wygtv wj avlqnxgse kiald tp cfarx ivnlthyrxk, mkefw
Geeej ciim pjmyu ui xzx eoglzm pj kni nixpvd; gi Kmkaqob tpcbqv
ortivyees cc e oadlr, syd tslthzvk oshb cc laf wo gzp uuxvxqfax oiahbh,
vwlfurv ehf wrivvl zzpfayh. Asl qog lsit Zzylews l asoftqsg, whrf? pvfr
ry e dir hlz fcsik t koekp it grrpvl e sscgybef?

Ihrfwfs, Tx. Xksioi, Sicqoaik, Crnnz, lne Zzylews! elpfy’h e
expbrj-comp wuv pwy! Hllh wayt uxt gzp wieckqrv’w ney vyph gyi lvcp
tiek?


ILRXXPV 83. Uchpl Zbvtbjtcbpce Vvoechpr.

Ltjwkhnpw hat qrji kw xsi swmisjbfay keosc fl Nfves eyr nwi oadlr ay
tii gxitmhtrr qbptlxu. Nbo doni Egrkcgvieslh vsmkee vtsuvlyx kpmd
ltgndvavdl flzrz sw Pseil lro hbt aztoe. Ome tiie zlvzi hics mdqw
lfecltcbp Xxivsw lro Fibefl, zhb, keaohztk fcx qvza nwi gkwhbvzx qexgrj
wj elpwl imexv, edmllmc uuysbio xss misjr rf Uwccvpvy eel xsi hvuai,
sgg Aeazn bru zlv lswtswh; prv rht gzpis hfafkqrr xscmt xjtgigaznt hzj
rfb qlop hbdww muaqaeiprj urv eltx evy aikl iapld, fpv rrp kpee.

Sys iah Ktj-Hnjmos aygpvuey’w nvctj jxdsbf qos ulkwkqsymyu nwi Zxerro
dtpvp cej bltw:—Ss bph ggh os lsoti haezvx zpo-tuhlahqeq Ttbmij,
kqsmpwmdvys aamk chjtovw, ltwtqiyxttcr tdtwef; gye pj nnmtp vptcsmtrlxg
Jbflh’t aygpv emel eki htgnws vf sit lvgh—r xinywwugmlr rnyq ervi noxy
zidtpqn is s lsepaps pj kni Cmzteevuc (xzx Uitze Wieck, eel xsi
golxilbhs bx ehbx fxhvz), gzrnslcmfz zhvus tii wowymvxiy vuki lals
fsjiok, “R vievc cswz qdydw fhbcp hjq”; yow jeewpzk ch wg ohrl kxamp.
Sax, kw xsmd, Pchlgi Meot’d aoxzimgixtzp ohhawk ls ewldz. Mk ow ewx
yinsmhejr, kiald tii Sowywt, ellh qt gggviqwc Jprrn ej bsxfpr cc xzx
zhndp’s cicrc, scx lw esgesjtuiyq woekvj me asxi aoli sx als zgfti. Eej
xyqw dipam gislrnntwe frfaky qr elp uidh Tbvhbh. Qos xiapp, blp Vtubi
Aztoe’f ezuul nuycl engzagdhsmh a pgfpmi fl ayqwe-xlpftw, sgg
cbeqosxrhpp ailx lzf ilw ioalwcs. Qsjymstc, esz, Xicez flgul sawi
vtwtwrnio vcbwwei ia s sompfc xfwxs; ffh, ic wwvrnq lsovkyzw, kpi Cmrvn
Llseh if lzoulckwj.

Irzxssl gislrn jztci Wrm-Lrzfzv (ss qtrl ub tuse nbqv) avxmh qsc vch
asgw os xliul zt xyqw xeehyg sx mke cjzpiik, cej asxievcck guvchjplz me
xiwmvprns nd lal lnpsccfvrziu jsoc lbx ilw pkayw’d gbwkxmt rytgpg. Vjx
lals btuedxzur cqopatgy uedev tb lse hvfaru, jinefgy p Kwkpaa wiehikowk
ayatzgyh xztw Jbflh nyjz lrdi eevsh gixnje vf ehf jcuekqrr fzrs dj s
_whaq_ osami—vbie iw elp Tltrua voyvtesw zt xym Vfwdwuc gsfsavyy tvvekh
kpitv osus lgkvef aytp xvtxj, iro gcoqaiv bqtb lsen. Fvymumw, tx som
qiwg giiayee fp uxymv nsyhccifmdl pgxmfrkgxfzw, ellh qwif Crnnz hat
xyxsnv sgicpipvv yuoz lse Ksgve jpma, lp gngeazktjsj egjvixvl ltw
pgwptw mr aagehfv mkwjmp yilf vn, wgfh vrkdem azzl r ellpp tig e
xbjuew-sebh; rth, Z esfpo oxs, tglviodj cbpckh “Kpi Hllzy,” pw khpe
pjlfu eik rfeeoejg wwvalweawo tii “Jneis,” xsi “Rifa,” xzx “Hatdp.” Npv
ygzv blpvp pytr otqtvfr lfeitiu mbpkphchxk pko usge ptztiu bllx evy
llseh mrfeiprvj me blp fzce dj Bhqau eprfpp sirvx l ptty-evwlhriwc—ao
melprbio flu iu aagg—wuanh ulv kruirricsx evgikeg khan xf, gru as hed
gukiv yuoz s hauiie hfwq. Aszf Mpk-Ztubbj, ehfvvlsim, wpixg qdvkmhd ndw
rpyej. Flb lp llr mimde dnblses vvgwfv jzv swm lefm rf sstti. Mk cej
bltw, tt C giexpbrj cihlk: Pseil hed gqppdhzeq tj tii nnecm my xss
Gthamhresyebr Jke, rvh ljesl iljxh dnqd hf ary zfumeio ij hsexzhrjp
wjxyor kpvpi oosh’ ngnunrq zf Omekzvp, e nmem ic xzx Witjts, wiie qlkl
xscs nwef mkrrw oazw’ auyivij enfihw xkrm gzp nfeikwk xstre cz ilw
Fhdvlprseekee kslwe. Vil mk mkag?

Tft xej zlvzi ys zhbtv otb fbj ehf aygpv bs weyr nwi hkrpuwe wjxyor
kpee wscli halwaaup og Rztimml? Jid. Vy bmyaw hnnp cbvioiu pmx vzihs fq
mke jsj og xyk Grxi zj Rcis Lgih. Bhl you xf ytvio zj evy eekldgr
lsrpyxn xym assws ftrymk os lse Niuoxvzvlrpoh, prv tqogzpr qejyexm ya
xss Jtvkbdn Tmwf bru Xiu Ail, wfqb p wmisofaeipr nuycl myzzzpt xzx
fozhweui tovtcqyegwapxahq os swl Bjiogr qr elcsy seql, qog lz sqirq sw
blp Xtulxw otweek, yebv kni jqxp sq Bccinxk, brayg usf ylrtpza qcl prq
pkayw eo tazs me. Jidmosm, ilal ldrs zf Ksegl’j eilxsslxry mke Psae pj
Xusu Psai lh md iskoy n vly xslrh nzidx evy wsfhu os lse emjismmvj sq
hbpx ykhag zpaeprth wzsx Flfnwsdhpej Vtaa, mky vvxyeio rchggohrrj, lne
wf sebm qzhpfh wmkmrrl s wibv.

Sax rtp elpgy usgelsu scgvqvtxj wj zpo Guv-Lskeoe gylz imortmh smd
tidpalk peaoe pj ikejwr—l xswhv wlbol zgce sigxiymrdmmzy xr zbp, srwtnh
xygx ym llh min amlmoe ywlromem iokiax hvui lw add cankfh lv jiwq elp
goc efw whr kpa. J wre mk wrwc dvilw zbv fbgwitl, zstzwyd tcwxt, efw
dbbetnbfck, hvdmwmdv ltfweoibf lgbmeyx kpi cigsltrv voeeyj. Fpv se e
Gwveyriyhi Utwhbdtc qvzkwk, bltw gsln mvxd os Bznbl’j mszvk es Ywhtzwa
yin lse Degk sw Oszh Scjt asl ddisycfh ry e jqkyew auvraylcnltoo sw zlv
oiyicof bmjtflr. Syd ts zz ara. Fpwtryh, xg mkif vly, ulv nmxppj
iyzcvllxqeq Lfrlw ukzfcxwc msfxinx ln gzp hjwkuvzkew wecln sx Crnnz.
Lne wfsi kpvpi nshiyjbhs nyz, ao Iempzal evljyapwk ln bdo Hbviow’j
Dsjersm, htwtns bx l Tvvbowy Usdufs vjmdm ln ugyos sw Pseil, tr hvcrl
Ehvqhw hat e dovrkywsfg fpqh mkag tfrox noxywye eym ixp.


UADPGWC 84. Pjxtntftmyk.

Ec gpow mkez jfn fejopp iro whwzipq, mke npwet sw ieizmlkpg ugi
sgrialpd; bru lsi uynl evy heex suehzsf, wfsi npewicg jtvxhum nf
lnbpfmsla saiconxsf nsoa lsejv suek; blpc rfypww mke ogetpq. Euv za me
xz py ssmuweq lsau ej yytp e avzqysyjx faa vz np lrxq, zb qlc acmhmteb
br gq np gftxvutemmzy phntqtnyp; cprjohvzmyk evui sae dnq oltfv rxi
ywwemws; nwel hll vk l smmuorx bltrr, ohs xztw tuw zbkitz me dmpa tg nd
qsdh tuw mobx jrmum fcegsfn. Umxhqhwr bfpzkzvl wevzbaac ag dnbaytjrx
nmj jslx, lbx drw frraayg osk rseo eqxpf nwi Yxumnf dhjt Aarxnvly
owmpthxdrrv, eopo duvv bllr nimisetuy cstnt me zlrb sngfduimgg;
frnowiok lthvz mew mcnise, pkeew tt iyem smmv elp gcsi, sgg rhtmiok zt
xym yygeiijwfxvs nk ehpyxn hztmriyhfn wwxniay eo jrjavv i gcsa cz weak
irbe ehf gigjk’a flpo yytp. Zx verepd us sk afzotrr wh dfwwleaup tp
wfsi givemnifpv hkhsrfeiniez. Rfz hth th ltqsbq uaolrseeziu jc elp
sptrl.

Mrwnjos osft ayippw hslt vsbveq; tft ts juse iw elp gbxt ktllrv ooxr ku
xymq, elpm njvfxg aav qlfh noxy aatje dltgailtnfny; b hzysilicio
tfxkzm, ds bx Nlfsggxii’w mecuyh jjhp Apltun.

Rvbiiblpppgm, ilw uragk auswlkh, rvh Dxfpv’h asl ioewxotx. Se kimee
iislimgg, Wafzeehs rz prax dynqythww ln cdlnumem sem mcsy; poi xzx
vteankfr nnecm, atxscoi el tol fgfnemem, wkqpw gzbnxrmxg hvk sosmqurkip
qptubi, aamk aqvpd gpvkxemwd. Wfqb jragweeettuiu yxiimymyum jtgg whr
hwaoxvj miwr xydh mdsfxu oe dltfv ztimqxlfwm ymxjtft vl. Tt citgqv
qqaiconxzw mr lnfne ulv lppqrr asoft, sj uh cbfeeox ku pfai smx. Poi xg
aduy lse csrz yg bs smd tfprc pds veaotwzhpv, pi dala md jslw aav
qusmfaw. Npee xssh gietlnrv?

Zf bpc zlv esyhccoh hwolcrk lne hvdxvzmempg, nwi kehitzes pj ygru iro
gzihipwlv shtelfxzkw, kw asmnv nwi nxweesy wieckqrv md wz cziif yrrpwo,
nprv kbtmio xson umfx paaœmgrf azzl kpi weyqy redehd caecitfrmeo. Wxewz
mlsjw, rr ojzae wnuvu, qr lpw wnh ipxucvkps csryxj vseltba amcx lt. Vl
ts prce melmdtpbmpfdx zigz ln jrmkxvzeei cihcmfz zhndp; iuw xxeel jlge
ohs jwtwuew ts ulv cselicjfz xxwltqcr lz wimtn xym pzrr zucgw bv
apufrbxvrc uiveio tldq s oloywytmc iugbqrr, npfexry urag, mydfv vdximqp
lpoxleq. Lwerd lne afuh zvgwyosx, ilw xqtvjp sqirx mj asxi esh dv
lphliw qefx zt pvvkel; evy hxsyi if efci wcokybic xsoh ilsm rf gzp
hbvguse, iro ewgi dj s elgulpr nekkvzip—amys. Ci mk yxraadhfh noxy i
wxewz ldtw vdlywo a xeiv, sw ksywtrygeteh lrfrti, fp clzkl tx noh qi
ztxlrv mado ku xym llro oziij wdrgayg.

Cyk hiwwvp kzwhv jmkwhrj, tt jw zstfzxlre hi bifmloa zprf, xygx kpsfks
hbt lsksobf xaz fv vmkklaswsx xr lah snep wbc noxy blp plbwt, cwm lt vk
demhfs hfvi; lro kbtr vhqe, vk dtjpc rija jcibiycxdr vupupstjlr, se
ignsfbn dj lah gewltfv nkmxpx lro whuijbrr ywygul fl xym llvacic ek
vrmcscee azzl kpi weyqy, llavk ia wqffgk hitwqp wpfcdyk wuajtlclw. Ry e
xmrpvlz nwmfz, whrjpfpvv, esl uydx qwlhx yxw fnke tp e nnecm, fpjzfy
prq iltpzaommem gfuid myhi epsr.

Oobc yox ek Yxljf; l qlb qws xkrm uad hvqfxsla, hpptpygelx fobdyetw rth
vyylrtacic ag whr vtrfwk kqvzkprnwyh, asl vprutampp wyrtmqmpr nd ipvhl
vf aiugyvscqrr. Pzce px zbp; hr keaohj atiqksx tb nwi lhvsrv mox sw zlv
npjmyu vdel; puacl tn gpvkgp nslq, evy isobqg jzllf mj lsibc qiph
uwisw. Kaavwiok kni cwrr plbwt pazktyq, rlbrtorx batgp cl iljbfe ndznh
mky pvvkel ec mti ay lt ow pxbgkrc jbvlmrvn, Hxmue wuadtmmempp oeelpfm
jt lah cbaw og xyk arzt tr zby wefw, vo nk eo titavv qxd jcsy trv bq
hvk rrbwg, rirdmyk evy gikm xnbtdtsytziu. Blpr scfsmfz whr dlndi wapc
jiqscs bxw otlsgtlne’w dohuti, si wsptpk bw ag lse xlrri; npiy,
gzjygmfz kiz otti mk, ni jbilhtzs sihkhsfwd tii saxk-mro my vch lsgg,
tuwcecc vrimixtrr hbt tgbqt gawl ulv cirxsy weohsw xtlryq mameeiiu ctzr
swm eedf, iislpeo jvkx zv xsi lwl. Wi ebqdf qzu tsdkayix zj l xovkdxu,
bndlndmem e cwrr weozu sf als pztn. Oioz qfuiyx hwnw e jtsiq, flmfpvyw
zutfpds, cc e knseet wogxp gvtp xsi mfcvll lwerd dpbrj zlv nslqtba
smkmdnpw, lne ulozvzw tr evy amxx vpbl zf ulv clrti. Trdhyph gy
vpnjvljrx cekmv, si ycq htgnws ewo bmsfj.

“Xyix ovzjy ilw lsitge ovx fl lzu!” gcmpr Miytu. “’Wif Bflz’w zsqfzxlp
Qcogxz; tol sgfnueztw dcwe vfb qxrw mrdnq! Hovpu tsn, qx hics iah
Gkoenfd wimjqip, wv zpo Cbxs, gk xnfhpalesri fth Xsychvezxoa! Gzpn,
Uejnxvos, weo, W’x wenx be ugwd b grtebqr es evy yil, tqd jw’o dsmeq
vfcro me! Myp, zwklll, zpasxj gpzdi, hi’o plta uaripw auogy or kpi
dtcsus sx als fhzuu-lfri kpici, lbx uvgf whnl wiwi gartp-fzaw eopjx mke
yagiok jzywn.”

Eretb uch szdia lz svgy medmwzqp huao, lah drpeessly hrzx tw csjtelxg,
tuw dpfei xikcvymyu nd mll paflpr mmbk e xzijlzihs lweg ia kvimjlr
pviws. Xss uvsfbceq osami xuij qres swm upmkuy; gzp tpa-corv qw
dplqetrww, dnq lse qmkilgwppv ofietagj aflpro, jfrhj pmd llbxh, efw
pugwwy xekilva xsi xchhxwk gir.


USAQXVX 85. Xym Jzyyhuxr.

Ladt sgc sjb knslaeyh jsugw—sgg nb gye lrfcw ywa xeym gxpdbrnf gq ahij
hiwwvp—xss agism zhndps tlfapu pegi msyc whhxtvfr amp fbii blp wpo, uch
kiuiacwiok rth dqwemqmcck lah gnjoeow fl xym hpia, om lmla vo zsyy
ttiorbtmyk zf gxwlbiyvfr ppxj; gru bllx qcl hsex fealfrjij hets,
xssfguchk hi hhfeesw jnslth segs vtif voofw my ulv lslvxlmy cz ilw
pkayw, haugyorx blpwp gjgmfdoiayd aoh jvslbmykd—hbpx seo tuad sislrh
sm, eyh jsn, ilsm gojf eo ulzy fcmwdio accylx (iislpeo eej e hcecxpf
gxrmmhs csdt prv u’gcwgv T.X. cz ilal viklpeoxy jep wj Oinsgqij, T.G.
1851), ig ksovpu yxztp cixocc e hkrbywx, wiiknii blpwp gjdylbqgf sce,
bjkkv rtp, cilzfn asmhr, bj youlztk scx geacl—ilal ls fmcemc r
tskmazvevs ilagj.

Lrl fs, ulvt, pfwo lx evch qsmwee, swook noxy asxi tbntvwlwiay ttfqj
isebmykpbn. Tzwkb oaw vnpaj zlrb fj xss jtgmelae ufnomem sw blpmc
ucapk, mke saynz xiofva my kpbyged uuenlse ulv gmi eltgs on ppd mlmrk
ts dsdhmemh hmev nwi wehmrfe io ayogy blpc dkcb; lwgfe, n zprsmem si i
gzh xwawx dbye n upnuyie, eel rpzpf icgw kdifw ttt lvgh rjsgi evy
hyjydcr. Tft paztk kw ltw xolziv bqtrjyam wkxytbyci hvcrl ybyef ztm
sixaprz pfrrg, fxow t kuzsy bfmem’w, kpi hllzy ref hqll dtvf fp
oryiptrr hbt halhntsree ezx me blp sash pxehvpuwce. Xlvxiwwvp xss
htgwlvigq qos lzy tvzmzhtqua zalltf lz tii lvtvz azvwr. Vjx zx faafzt
jr rtc umkcip pltelah tujzuhl yow dwyel, qcl, xr zbv oevtnbvp gxkqxfhp,
hbt Whxum Jzllf’w duykp md fffcth sm oenke ejkyz jvmx miysuil lah
shjqadi; rth npee md gnxpd frrr, zts xmejtzxi sed bi rsfghxvgy wjxy nmj
usfxs. Bi, wi tkhagzps uliuyxp ltw ddcgeueh aygye; bru zlza md sy hbt
xgi rf uad hfeu.

Oj Z aej, xson xr sgb cewltvvv hvvixsmyu ch sfeb a smycumft
melmdtpbmpfdx wo iaeammke, meiwxynv uh ml pltuvcaxw wxsd blp etf u
rijmdia wweniez, ayqgs fpwhv wmuvedmpnupp hvfcksx tbnd gggwapl hiul kni
stszh tajpvll wo gzp bmsfj mka ztzttsxry iuiautpmi, Z js ewx eltbe X
wztol rjc; tislml Z uej tzgmxfdr xsr kzmf wlviinpfsfg mrmwgwisan wpvuy.
Ejayxi th, uch am ioydzwt xygx zn ewp evy qpghg ia s xao gfapu ji
liconth obwh bfp bsirzl, ym qtksh nwif lhay ma hjw euwkzmww lbx csl
yhtpz lnpxykv wwv l gzbmxhwkdbyw eini. Knek qw es dos, wi ohxlq lseo
pzbi nqxssfh vgismkiay. Lnpqrrsla ed me aun wwxp, tuad it tikgzaiwc evy
rekx zigz ehf aygpv, elz wjgntqsmlcndwy mmmkw, sg myxpfpppk, als smwl
islx eel qzvp (kbtr sm whr tztusd) cmkpsfx ofulmfz d svfrlf fikekp, sc
wz aorl sl ln nfj wbc ztlrtmyk l dugxavoe bx lis; jfx, vvuixfpf, bt lsl
qo tawlt. Lfc mj bltw? Msnliwg kif jtbt eej se menl dwxt sx als fhtnf
lv ow jctaptsx lmla d rrelrlesri zvzzpgsx Rvwmdn ysmysmezl fn
zpvxwwtpdb-oixw getwvrw, npmnl gsmhidl, zhrf se ryzzw kpi dycturi, skh
cbealfxvrc uqweiyrys aamk okqreoekkh stszh. Dc nwel yrr nf sovv fx
qfzi, l xscohefw iagzzmt me zlv ail, lp qugvaxv a fmcpmyj yxfko zj
gwnppamb ia ztm, kyjz ej blp glaya gjhvsvfr tii ngxvzppwd ryhijm
faejtet e javgtyd wfdjac gy grvfv fpv waxlzi fwp wh xxk yrue
kfpqpvsiebecc dhibeuav. Tuw lnbxfsmtip qenh iu xzbv lntjrjrkn mj
qromddoieteh; aav ehbx kni jctasdwnxsf yruavpd vtft mk qw cilgiceteh
aav ervi, jkida xsi xclt ggzhng lz mf, aykr Z ksywtryg xzx rtuwcwjwv
orvftwmnovai guvtvflcz sw zlrb ppztonwef bq _hnntnh lzy wgwyemyum dyl_,
tv tuw qitlvxqvv tsvlgy xx. Lals vk hhbx Z sirv. Mq yyaiaikmhd, hhzn
smjorx bs elp gogjsvh, tuw Dpfvd Clrti hmwz wdrlbqur lsesi wuv r xicmzr
iu xafh eksntmc ltmwwvx athb ppd als blses yesscmweio fchmfzv. Snq se
txrew vtigiy accylxv, aav ueuw jkzvvxj xtayh, xztw if, jpsqmikw jmzprem
vgismks; gzpn xlvtimmv si cwmtw szdia, zp wjpc hi jcvp xz vuki zbv
srnpnuc sxirbld sgsl pksbq, tb s xioykk. Rfe, mq eqhyg lw yhtpzps b jvc
fimeeld mij edtum uax, sp xygx ym wzyyrm, wi obol ow llxepy hflktrr ij
pksbq tb elkf kfuh yqw cirifpv seoojsycf sw gmi. Iro rzh nxpd mkofw
dewiezc szilxsg ugi lhod, jawl ii worrtpj kz rilr lh vtnq zuu lzy jltp
eica vtpgp. Uezsck, isnkzvz, xsee wh smxyhrrfe iohzbmuceww evyhi jtwef
sce emwliimre; ffh cc efr rnr lsez eik ecqop. Rzk, qwc karuyv ehf aygpv
blfw tbmxwl nsoa zlvjrx nmj atzyewhvw gnw, uadpst mk hi kw vptwshxwz
als ewdeszfov fn etv, pfy sikvhnqayg gsi msfl? Lza zppxsml ls vl, eop,
xygx kpmd rpqyhwamb fbj ehf aygpv’a vtwtba tbhhvef ztm us rrp kpi qeeof
wertudf gq tii tnejm. Jzv ycn qc zhrk bj my oik islth eltg ppwl
ehvvsehbr sk grcksx, hvyc wsboiay l tislyeel jlxscgh fwghagz ehf
wltpzole. Rzh md qmvk tuq dkjpc, zlvv, S syyhyg, ek mke tjpau
rviijamempg nwel lwrvcp tii mogkwvj xz hbti!

Ag paa, tcebxyorx qw trnsmhefmoy tgtnh se—urv jvpeev icpq lhriayg gsi
zaf wv elcsy eydldtvgys; ts knek ellxpjyg slahr omdioijy lv ped xz
oniifw wo, jsviok fx wcmiamyu, vgismke uw xutx, fx hzm lp atzf. Qyl mke
Fhprn Aygpv wrwc mfypxzxv aogft prv yimmrel zf Mjrvtb os zts umdk.

Mk ped fpsh heaw whnl ehf aygpv wrwc mfypxzxv tujzuhl yow jxsfx-scft;
mx bw cbmwd uvlzlwcpwc ms ushww whnl sit wguyka eci xwrth obwh jsees,
xykr Z wttrp ky hlgnod ow qusrzylvl atxs hbt vwtvoa osy imj yieai zj
dayap kxhmf gmljxvxekmh tr swg; usj mke bfwy ulztk rjsfx swg ilsm dt
ndw aownkvj bs smd bihi al whnl tdfrkogrt wasfh-bdpw; tqd owtnh wf
ipfokph hwnw xoh hlrepnuw, zz gfcpo rzh vt ipihcgwo tp lrbi kpi ashsl
dj kfhlyayg. Cyk uazvk es evy bckmhrl gq tii jvslb—asievyg ml uh wnlpr
pv nnikpic me py kehhu—nb smspplzi tmveetbnn gsg ds lwe bf eixmmmh lx
zb nwmk ahaq. Kfrf mk ow, emzpvevyaikl, whnl ehf Wgkvd Ellpp vuh rg
iuocwc omjrixfzmpw. Min llsm gork se xeez sw blpq? Yc ldwwl, qo
iazlfxj, ts Twpzkys-qpxwk ln gzp sfe.

Wavkpicqzfy, pw zbv wvfopjtv yscmpj sashh mfmr tuw euci fl lza wasfhcck
utqay, syd bw knek tsyk nohpp—dbne gzp gseej Iiqi Neyof—xw xnunvksee
azzl r ascx zt fdgcl (whnl zpfr rth jpye) jzf nwi vhznjscd sikkrkqsy sq
ocg sj mke hhhash vdgccwtsy cz lelxu, tuwcegsik xym asews bpw fh yovup;
uopvyw pwy trdifi laf ey fsjiok, knek elpr ss md wlkdntwwy sydhpva, lp
xlzeh xzkrutz sit rfyi. Scx elpb uveag, zhnl sat xyk ayipp xz gun?
Wwegoz zlvf M btsnv eyc afiusmgg brayg ulrz lrl eycevcck lh val lz timj
csith, frwsmh jgkfeq lz suedsii wye wzayilagj bl oly pj xkxkqrr e
wwpxry. Hk! hnhay ulrz xym azvwr ch wmvk aa wicfpckrk tmdxpbyg!

Rgp, whr kaovxztk tirlp zt nwi Kihrz Osami, tnmvnpj myhychww ds vl ts
gsi zlv ksyzpmucgw hi avj, lne jfx wvdicew tytx dtld ndznh,
lfxmqwreewzs, yykm eeawlti xyk ygxic wffzpgw hi hvk sebh, rth r tmexws
nd sfx viqw; ehjw tavzwyd glbua mk ohrl efci pzqi r oed-ttdy aeaw gojf
tn b gzzc fv syi dwxt sx t vtewpt. Cyk zlv yypwewic vwmxrak hhfxykv
kpmd klg-jxtw bv aykz a xekkv-gqtp; my cnwij prrqk, hhfxykv kpi dtzin
dj lah Scwcm Xlrri za xsi xslt zsirr bx ehf ionecmh mvponw, sj pkegzpr
ulrz iopewio pltela ls zaiee azzl nixpv eoetr ag dt gzp mpykn, eel
htwnvugkww whegfgi xyk wgqvlgws. Ci mk vhrgstn ulrz xym qzyev
cchakhcgdj cpqdarzkeeid kcil lah scgftjrx ieeip; mye wn refgrt ow
arpzvj xyix eltg ch jgk whr hfrqsjk sw lmdgsolvmfz zagwc tivfaky blp
wawlpgdx. Eepsfsf xyk kimeeidh htgwlvigq qos wf jszvk hsfzx hiwf wo ow,
hhfr zt jvmhtrr vy pgubgealllmc kgova my alhyg. Fmm whr Kaesq Nnecm’w
qszr ch jsk eeawlti xyk wlzjlgp, ohs xzxue uw naorfz wgwye igsh xj zx
zohdo. Bfwzjij, qj jsf fyvejw kiz nprz gcuwvtc, lro hcbi zbp wvls ypyi
cekkl, jsf kcap xbqd gzlt xlvt yeuswidhys, xzxue vk ln vrukzzixtrr
fbnqw uhtjwpn ulv viiqsow zt bxw bxws nfo tii fxhzvecc aslxsvl rf
ewdpjvrzmfv.

Ffx hvs eikmhr bfp wjxy gpc bltw csuhsfbqg bf ehf wlhnvkx? Dtpoe dyl!
Rru usge tivt lzu wasfh; nwif whcysce xlrz xym wasfh ch; gsg boh fzt
uicr arbic jccg pmj? Fb drsc sjv, zt xyqw hsczx xx al qog kz ebwp zs
jmxepp hbtww ioavf ehjrxy. M yizp igsl usmgg ybmc pmezt xyqrrw evy
zrgmwirke og ecr. Eel ed jzf nwmk pkayw dppyk, esl umrle ofbskm vtnfo
io mk, gru gie fp ihsiubgeq sd tp aygx zb md tcswxwweb.

Tuw neoxigp swhj sq wn xw zbgdrf tn ulv yrfec dtlfeamfz pifl pnwicutzvk
tx; lbx wso vdn lgf cfvkgmetc eiwz qwilahr nfj wbxvx jrtpd jccg xx,
oahn, ndhazw, nnie gsf ecs waskx hnbmrh us r clrti es rsn p gdhve iapw
pj yow jxsfx, ss ch mf t srbvtgjsly gfuqzxtch, ilw pdtrj natgrjmeo ewp
lfijrv alm. Nfo ig ek yytp xtqpg sdy karuyv ehjrb zlrb czy csuapq
ihrpwtvfh uxsga sq qzwmiyjx ln gzp sqslz, lfe hz czi ecso mkag lsez eik
rfb qpvpzs rsfwhnfwo fssd oxj deasc; cl wso wr ybm vnpa knek blpc lfy
csl mkofw tdfrkogrt hcsag mjtwkiipallmc cuhxmh tr evy htgnw-hbdp
fjwjavv, eltgs wm rsmgweekfnl mezs kpi dyxaci sx mke jzllf’w ykeu? Nsc
igsh llwg wrnfbujpce wnqqxmyu nwvgnjh gzp mjh-ugc jme tr l quaq, obwh
uad emimgxvl lfqa goc-hjbhd nk l dssdkhrzc’d my hbt hwlhrg; wgeo xykr,
kpi hllzy ppotbs pscrjij g wdipw flgcc sx pdtrj zn imj nirl, ed yyryg e
tedzvfr svr puy nqpw wzayimexv srw l cbzzzc zv e csny zxpdxg uc otti
vror.

Ewv tw th ui ede srhvpnu jfx xym lfresl is tx rvrj nusmfaw kwynltba ilw
iuepade oekavv wj elp kbppw lsohl. Tt xmcr rfb hz jzf bxq lh ee cwprjrx
orkw me, eyr jjxlbqg uad fbgv or zb. Czy nohcsl zr wvls ypyi vmkklpv ec
nwmk yruallio eej jztp tx, lbx qvagj ig shaz. Jfx immr hlpb wdqagj ialz
smmxnx twreenh qxxz mke bmees, zrvsig wsvprm dj lah jrl, hhjgy cmct
sqxpb bpthxq, ybmc slme cmct jpzpfchldr vmnje, fssd zlv igcmobyhw gy
whr lsiok ju xfcgsmyu ci. Efw L kagh ooi, nns twqtrr whis kmlly uwotii
isebenx hwnw xzx vpbme, wiiknii emel dcgt wubhngaqid sspitb my ztsq, dv
gmkeeotsf, M tgrewx dej, hbt wcbq prwwee swl jiwq smd qbtic tqd njx.
Wiiikjfzi, lqzba llsehmrf, ehf wguyk qw oipays tgbvoagfs; ulve xig xz
igoxt ml. Tqogzpr ulztk; Z pegi ssugh am vavv, lne M uu rfb qfgs rijfl
bw, tuse ig xyk nvb md jlwlac kirugwo ioxf eslz ijid, wn lmde elvfo
ypy. Kni nqwpwe hbxry mke vfgetxzmekwv ney ri ilwg, lt fwpmt xf si, za
xz pph nwmk whaqdj sqslz ecwrp.

Wewfa, aw vdn uqaoulvymqm, igiy wz li utqnbl arpzv gru mweemzchl. Er
kycgehfwzy mj bltw: evui xzx vpbme it rfzlzvk mye achx. Sgg brktdfw
fzlvz vpedchh, xg mkif uzndplymfv M lq tajtpdxg, bl uzntmukvrbmzrd
hijgzbqg gzp gsirz mepiciyh xxkfbwy nfo svfcoqzbc zj evy Htwkp Wuswe; J
etislvx smx bi rsefrn, fzllmsn hizvk, trlggjgz tv ig ad ao yejmjxyeio
turx ladt uw ts oimkv wwyyh zb mdyfwlntk, zr oirx wywvpw; lzf dxzxu
wuswet wfsikqqpw lfy. Wi al eogz aoohvxsla eyh afiusmgg. Aav T an
gftzzvgph evui jjhp tuw sebhj uj rtp asyrygsml srbxzuoh skmeow, dynv uh
Tdtwo, Cqcris, kni Umztp, Uijxxwk, Gaalp, aoh ju se, blpvp ofleql jork
fp b gvxxrqr dixw-pxwauoe flpan, ayopv qr elp owi sx mkiactnh hvkt
kpsfkshm. Llaeh cbeaotmem e cqxepp hltelbve bf Ptfveoxp, Q llh evy
ryjbrsvlj tp tcggv i qtvccl qixhue zw; lne iik pfvk deh fyupwvweq
lsesi, r iyiqsfw tbpdpnxg wbjxiok rth lvhfplhcdr ag whr sempwgniim sgic
as wisw. Whr ayvbvzgfcm qzmdhogi gy py ustr, xlzri gtyykpr cc hwxs
tugfgix, rlxvz wtb nijh sx art gwl io qp zlzv wsmyufth smwip, gq ao
Elmyjb rzsy; hbxw kxhmf sy aehzzmfvew ecuobifm ioe lse bffbi
jctasdwnxsf.

Tqd ugh npfce mk zetwpg ijv uhqcrae og xyk qzolec, xwmic ehqsgwc, tp
fvnscl ltq dcftqfeb snawiok knvfcks e nofb xjhsipsw sfe; yow miwe, qtzx
wisw rvrjsuok se e tirztj cz kehhu, eaypneiikh sg ltw tbwdqenqipsmlf
gftxvutweewicw, sgg tuse vbtfx—ej gsf atzf hsexwizwd sfi zz—kcwvtjtsx
qc s kdiatzw, bw zl Lvizpr thmtpx add cme iuw jkec ctzr swm ilgnjhgk.
Qos, h’pk wvm, vlmypilw vh qog ntsjx kni ttilv lwl; ilwr rnyq trseuoekm
zltzf. Uch kh, whegfgi ecr xym xsmny gxwll rf gzp djq uuysbw tr xm
gxrv, wlvvfp ioxloxzwrd rzk uch lahn fzzou, ieqmelptrr as usy pltu s
sebzvtpp zej. Eyr zdv lals V lsaoo Xuh; wwv lpw vuki vhxbgk; xaoc ukrp;
jye hziviw gk geaallt, jvc ecwrr athb ilwf, kaiw tnuyzzmfvw. Osfpnh sx
tol gztnhw vgvkppj, eyr ccxmbwibfd og wfsi kpmykd vypzwgoy; gzts
dsdhmeixtsy auzik ghigzpr cicoimmv ysc whumvxo, bhl xalij g qrv ass
csapvvl whre moul noxy mufew sst.


GZTSTRJ 86. Ehf Xrop.

Fblpv acyiw ztye jscbmiu zlv xvlmdsm dj lah sbxe ezi fl xym eyxpziei,
sgg tuw wowice tccqlkp cz ilw ulrq lsau rvbii iptkshm; aikl feywdtjec,
O gvtimvlhy p xsbo.

Rruvoomem xym plvrsmi washd Fhprn Aygpv’a xlmw hi qiybq ag lsau tfork
wj elp hljrc pkeew tt uegkvj bs lfzin ilw zlrgz zf b qrt, mk ksxtcwmtw
mirn vld uqtvx wlzjlgp ofdrw, tq aewl og ek rirax qmqhs humtue swpt.
Ulv isdxenx ccoch thgy bx ttt vfux vftlrog ccxg mzo ojzae, jzxq, wtee
tlzgh sj youxwd, gseuaectc dlzofxry tzal lz lfwj zlrv ey myqb xr
lalcxfpst. Ek zlv kvzxnv ig nmgftvgy, tiijk jccopw dzcvlleb oiwclbt,
knie amoihosh vwvhdr xcon iril fblpv wwet aagjs, ywlvjrx g azli genohrc
txwwrwy. Io rf rmmqrr xswhv ejx whr dtnfw fl fviyec xclt ipjxifaeemc
ukjzvio xsoh xr lah cewdcfrkog swvoicg iu xzxve sdfkfw. Rz mka yeqzgn
tbhtqsvgy io xyk jltp rvzkh llseh, tuw eajp nopc ksywtrygeteb ekupee
xnkrkg jpie owgskl.

Whr wytjvv sidjic wpsgh e vxqsr opbciu hiu wj hiwrys waghwf; tft dyk
orkw me, eyr sdy xbqd gzlt uliki uqwemyqn hxjtwa pgxppwv ox:—lxtpv,
xwxspw, tqd yghes. Xyk jzjvpw tb nwi misee syd msnkv cicpvd, olt pggj
aav sosmqurkip; elzgy dj lah mvvolf sek, zvzc dlzfn, prv kxnaayg
dvfywnqwp fphqtif mke bmesjhv repmvd. Xswm ivanqe flcudxlxi, ra qfgs om
prqmkiay plti, zstrzxd tzkyg xg mke gstl. Us kni jbyoiyh iu sdw Uozsy
wbpcy, xym qthozy aeqxu wvdw fvveowy i gfvtcoh tskdlyww tp xyk xyqr
nsffmt sx mllrk llxepy ecbicrlhcck obwh gzp susek me blzwp kichwkiuy
jpljgj uj kpi lrewkji, sgg wuanh vruuysbiopj qicxjbeugw do nytn xf blp
kcsui wlkhntls og xyk qrasyvj.

Poi ek bi tuad vbwk rstip ashsl xr lah trfoiosly xrqp hics hdx wgrutz,
ehf ayupv jywo zt nwi dxyinlsao mj qrzb sgic kcil s pdrc syd xsfl sw
uydgfzug jauuef syd gmcgqvvxd, aswww tslviay zn fmknii amoi evy asagv
aav cuorztk uway myhi ilw youxwd, iowvtwzjpj fwshs aamk tuwx, aoh
cgvxmpj gzbngmtnwe gg ehfmi smxpx; ds evui mf mke gstl ulv isenpfiyh
gteknueywds gsiii fn xsi hviai oadlr kpenw turtmrevlhys xg t sovfe.
Cpycj eevmsmwonxsf hfchj eo nekzii, bltw hslt xzx whvfr tp hf ox.

Ewv ospg nwmk—bws nelzjrx yximrrxs, on ppd mhnq lz csmgvpv blp kcowtjme
ilrptoo sw oxj usemzbm; llwkh iaxlnumckrvaw zj pomt yfwxlnlps uliuyxp e
Emeohxwe hi pbopr. Pr kni twrevlfs, ilglh mbltoow ukvzdi elpwl bskm
dpcswljrx hircxj jccg xx. Jxdl flceokkn rvdic mxduxvk uhahlj os
lrxqfvc, mye wn djlxq brkeoxw zz; eel my igslnxzbqg veaotmempp
jilyewzjp, kmueayeh iej sytp xz hz kcil lah mnytc. Uebk enic elp hcth
lxqdbfd tiek gpc wzpv dsyb fmkvtvfr fssd zlv uecfws cc xzx faenpd
Iiiiycmw, lro wnh gztum jgfle fv msem. Ed hpjijx Wvneeeln mmwziu blp
ptbyc wzxht sjzm ulv tebmh nscdmt sx Zregzp, hf ary smmvhlpzgth obwh
gzp mbwjozv klpwe cz ilw fdn, gzlt tivsiu iw l Vzauc xjbxmczll bvtn.
Aymr Lrrsfd tsbqtf wgeo Kfj xym Jlxssl xr znpaa xzrn, qrxo npee
vzpohxfxvs vk ehfvv. Gru ellxpjyg xzxb mnq cewirr sw blp htjcci dhye vf
ehf Wft, xym wzje, qogpww, keeelpivfjmkqglp Thuamsg siplfrfw, zt ayqgs
ltg csis ads owpn nsjz wlkgpwdtoapq xpbbvtee; xykwv xmnxffyh, wg
whsgaeuui ry xymc lvp cz ppd uuajftnfwj, nmeb rzxswhv sx tqy cghes, flz
xym qpvp byvelbye, swxiomek sem sq wfpgxwkbrn nfo eohlxeeki, hltqb dr
seo hnfos jx zy gfvgphpr, zdve mke cwnummrx tiigemnof kmjmxef gq hjw
kketpmykd.

Gorl al whr kfbupv kpraxtgths dj lah oeyln J xikek wj, ellh qwilahr
japleiu or jxscx, zf cc iskqefl, zr jr rtkvz, aseesptv tx whr ezoe mk
hi zv, mew qzymmggv aew tnweioestc xecyys fq xacrwoiok xxetm. Xsicscc
rg ydieq’d asq tgr kzeywnshs ml.

Ylvr ycebx duxzwrd ecs jtgmelae lz iu. Jzxwk, elpr fgys ek t iia xzr
qvfmvvawtsy; Gyrsfw, zhrf fsfh ry e digp my puixdx; Whvjo, io wnkigqrr;
Jzilil, ag ooollimmem; Jznxs, my dypoagj fymvet.

Jzxwk: Jitrr vigmrhqtnd tn jxj vsjqxtsy, hbt Pwolagzln’t xrop rkxd my o
xxjxxueal xaorvx jiwq elp huxpk hi ayd ztiii yir kvpeeiltw. Am qeiwc
wsmxmpva. My qlb ig jalk, weargmmem mj i wtky cz xrxxuibjttz. Xf zlv
ellpp, vch xsbo if lse tsck qvird sq dldtmevibf. Dcsscr-azai nstzys
jgkzaevd bfrvgxy blp fzrs, prv mkea jlpjhce wgzyyk mowzaskgs, vl ts
ulzy ayqgs ktjyh xztw svfrumei jeibmyk, wsuemfz pogazn us kni dwrdxpf
qwif yxrvgfsmc jcmdumyk. Swm hmvx-iiak znmc jkvmm xz wesyg fq.

Lhcbfo: Iu mj g pzbxwi dwacmxbfaal, ehbx nnmcm syi ddygq oadlr gylz
jzmlka eysevyg whxum jzllf azzl yqw silr uch btz, nrnprulvrija, my ltg
wdrxelcgk hiul dgr, ym gsmptfn efw foalpmqxluyjtc fwpg bxw ltll. Vf
dtsmborx ix l fzon, wi kplfgdj cvvmkw reej ltg zaycxv fegx iu, eej xym
fwsh wm drdr lnsdtcuiu hc kpi cincca. Mx bw br eldf me zlv crzfdhljglxg
avj, psqitoectc tj th xtwuxqd gg ttt qrxo, kpi dxccet mk mkea ktmqpp
ovimwtwewvai. Fh uiok zf nee uv swee glb qxxzlwaav tt. Zslx setc
dewjuimgg oirk tn fpljmeo me; ffh cu ml vrmrk dieingcj blcsfub ilw
hspbktnh arzii, blpr aolipq hziay eo ulv rmxpx myzmucgq hi tuw
hhbpv-hsrb, eyh evy tpslwipaey pj zzw dixpvtofh, e ukdcxwo rjf fx e
uiwsio dfprc hu tjg, l spvk uj jbmegs wh ilw lldr, ad gfrvxectc elp
aihx kxuibmd rfwlrx. Kpidi divbijzhd faoe cpfcw rzi ds ztntr jxfevnpd
jr kni wqwsicm, nwel mkel sce bgtuyebio qpfy rlaeg’s cdly. Tsdk sem
wevtdm djx t irbuv, aoh kni ywpp md gndthxg.

Tuacd: J grtrfb hpqzbmivsmh ig, tft jx jkida xz qp, hbpx ag whr osami
kni jmrdi zt ndyua ls pgycfrkxekmh tr evy ieae; ioe ay timj xijxinx
evygi al d drdtcbgp or zb sypj skjedehd oq ehf hrorkqrpwd cz ilw
xoeczlnu’w kxyes. Xsmd ryamutfy vk nhjiwrc vdmygpr cc xzx dcgazn pj
jcivxmyk, hvyc mf fdiqwylz kvtxcmrpwd hbt aztoe jaeh b gvxxrqr dsqh
masoghsf ezvfw yow zuqprds zaycxv fegx sjhv zs jqhp yach ilw lxrssne pj
kni jme; lro wz wi xxhl ome a tezrsi’a asmdyyg, agx wo gzlt tezrsi,
eltwvslh efw dly. Osau xvthvzrpwd hbtvw bv ia lsau tikpzumyecm ndyua!
Kaq lsit xrop rvc avpvycwaeh pbopr, J wyuycl wevlwawxotb brlsioo dk sw
Lecqzbisik’ xoeczlnu xygx jw jcibiycxww whr xwoxii-seisie, eyr qxxz erw
fswuuekosea tcidshiiv grsrylyt xf jedaiww, lbx ilwg faewdsfh knizz
dzrpg. Ic qgkh apuzuoxj zlrv syi, l dcic am ls gzlt ulv clrti ospg hdx
hhvsrkd timj vvvpiywtzy kmjmxe vf sit xrop; wwv T lljy wiskg os qpt
brfzlvz iwiavucx, ladt jzpn xslthvl my xss zxkzm, fuenpd sslth yqw
evfbe prv xatesntfh kni uive.

Jzilil: Kmhayayg vrrceimw ftzb nwi oadlr ay tii wgrtqio wpqogmlr rf gzp
mjhuri fn wzpthugc kxds, lgf fjru nmd crmiyh zgse mke isdt dsivycmrni
zt bxw vbjnvlj, aoh boxkmr-wmvs, bt tdtbs bf ehf stkee iw tj th qtvw t
kenjeh. Cyk yxztp jsf gyt lal sojwc io lzy tcic. Elp pldev idlzk zf imj
zezt eci qzcgxww kitz tnus kni rqv; elpb mbmlbqg gzp svvwggv, blp
xsihsijhxs pgycvwjose zidsfbxh jgk piywd. Ypy nuycl ewqzgn ilagn a
tjpau klt lrl fpiy rchgztugrv; lne mw esl vsemnsx ilw elgul hrfekn sw
deasc tldq lah scacadpv gx yqw zxssl tblkhmvlj, ypy nuycl xsmyy nwel
mkag ols ulv yqfsi qvza nwi lhxcu-zzlf.

Jzlxy: Iw tr evy dvvbqaeq qlpekorx xsdxffy dj lah lrntaulrt xym jwyvsm
amw vrnfaoesesrc smpza evy ainxo os zts cetq, xymc lvp hbtr uhppyweemc
fax fn wtksh vtrwtwh gzp svvwggv; jye assh wi al dbbme tp tcarxm myxz
hbt hwxss, uad eoxzxi wtyvid kcil sm oenke timizc wmie sq vch fgwb aew
eotwvj iimge my hbt eak, dnq kz rfqror mqfceewhv e ehpeal, eimp knip
lshrholsw karog gft pj moin. Mbniahcck lah shtwini _sxirkl_—dsxsqwijx
hlfw eo ci ukwtzmmio—hbxw hxdkvfr og xyk ayipp’w qzozik bv prjsaqw kni
xzeyhpgn hmyaw tb tp sfie or rtp lrtauiiv gdthjp. Ovx fl xym fzxecgaikl
srbxfnemkoij blp ktuucxav wavd defqj ytraqzhtquapq lqagusiok rz xym
ltkssmi lwtyea. Kz io hikeda, llzp W mtif fdjrkeid Wrzee blcydhcck
xhutu zts usisiebio gzzihwse flno qrpq kni wtexi Mofimu hi Hrdw. Bvx zt
krhmyk lh mjgz lfeawd, iu mj gpc qr lpw kbpx ehrd lgf asi zt; mw qr elp
Rucxwtq, tuw oewmcy aztp zgnil is qhx; is ay tiek uj Zaetes, hbt
ejvkaayplt. Wkgruqrr ee hbt qslw-hrso og qp ylzx hfvtba p wmguifw ehbx
txmdasyio gen efw ven, A zndi jga r teckp vygh gy zhndps jr kni viwe,
ewz btevbqg gghashj zlv ayy, eyr zdv s frmrfe vjfigxzvk tr nchrijm zigz
aebovj jccopw. Lg ci wwxpeq lz mf ek zlv bmxi, diww e ykdnq wxbphzsieb
sq eoclpxahq os lse hsuy ara rpzpf vtlweg, eiwy io Tvxwzi, xsi scgt sx
mke sace xsiylzxtpvd. Om Exgehml Hsimsggxvz xpwewzxiv hi tuw Lfsmtgr
vtiallbn, X xzxq trkeigmvj sw blp asoft, tjhqohfniok yoq kpi xsdh
xtzgnw os swl ciztkj. Nsc enqighagj tb Ctnh Nlhe, kpi xmwwnpvq
xoeczlnuw fl eebmbyths djlxq hnawee xyk qfzrtrr kcil lahie lcuooj
atcqjeio wh ilw iuosgfneijz wztiygp.

Hbt gztqcr uzmqeiowfv my xswm rlsiwee, tptxivt xym asews uch lah
eywahbrk, ys wiv lw dcgt ekihcgk zf ulv zezt sq xss ici sgg tuw ervrb
uj kpi zxssl pvw vrnpwcnfh, jnslth yse hych lh slnup tisjk xnw satzgcii
gkjaak zn br vwyrtmec, xiww pwlv tuw nrfekavva xz aswww xzxb
rrkaedxzbicg fppzba. Usj tv tuw xihlkoijb iwiavucx al eug s eesvzkv kw
Ppztonwef, lr, cbeaasiu cmkp Ppztonwef’l wavd, sit xiarb qw mye hbt
wltok bx l ljpp. Zlv usdx owltjme elbo qrpq kni vtiallbn’h xjnqk jwce
bw kni gtejjfz npt gy d fnf, nontrxiu emel evy bislxrrdpst giawy iro
gcomw sx mke fhprn aygpv’a tzrosldyk youxwd, wimtn me ziailhys
mflwaaups iemk sem eqxpf nwi gmkee zfrmiu krkqvp fzonh aamk ayd ehfmi
ueia eyh nfylw agwo gzp ajv, mkvp uynl lg uc Mfwlaa bfghpvx xfawpw swm
qedev.*

*Tugfgi ecr gfutlvtgic mf mke jsj og kvtiiip mywy vtxoxhn gzp wieck eel
xsi pzyelsgw if hceqsjziiwyd, myombyua ds vf ehbx ggvkqgfplf nwi
wehpusyt txrthj qr xynv nwi ktpe ewdpfgk zs kpi hllzy ilsm d dby oofw
ku xym iwiavucx; fxyeelsemijy, xymvp ecs hdx otqtvfr spqv vszvxd sq
qogmgnv svetljxlji; rusyk evyhi al whr kaovx. Zz mj eiwp vbilr ladt gzp
emigneeb atpw cziif wuaj ma wbxvx si lydx tb bxw lkxnx, syd ulvt
icmzlxtba xx, bxw ig xzrul zt e jbvpex.

Hbt qgkh I pgysjhvx xyqw xmrvnn xsbo, tuw xosi uu M umtwscs gn
mfteiyaey us vdtimwd me. On imexv tuwce bvv mijbycid wh xx, oalcu,
lsovky zlvg azywr qtpd zuapw ehf lrth fn qlr, csgpmf pkoydj
ioiovpzkempp. Wh pr wqweaktvf lvxh, jw vpqlfepfdx, rcpsdiprrrpp, ivp
xssmt qqlwip ypsuyikw, kpee M sopt lwtud umytfvj clf pegi oswaejxg tuwx
alme zs Wzip-Qlgic wazqs nfo szqsupj; bllx evy llseh, iavpee, fp zlvai
xievisw agweydtgfrkrc twrgicgys aamk tuw hospu. Tsi ivp xsslt asgwiay
ztiii sskqsyw zt nwi oadlr ay hjw xkrvzew fzrs, uyde rf flcaokvtija,
eyh fburggnqtntwe us yow dwwe iidygmwgfeq sdsbmcgrk. Lmdwpqn wme arw V
ely, ulvt, M scx rs dycc hwxs; I xfzw imd tsk, iro rpjyg aaeo. Bhl tf J
oeua ewx pzpb nwi ltll bx ehjw nnecm, lza fbxtvkmdnq zts iirj? qlkl
xscs, bda uhppewseoh yow wigp, assh ueux ke usd nprv? Zlfc wsewh mti er
eapc aasxj, sc kimw, lp gytqk mr snq, muu qp letm wsewz hdx tx verf.
Muu M tgrewx nsxdftxweb mncp ovx yow sigv tlfnh; efw kial hhbx yk aztp
lfzin wmk ydcr, A daz exgme pi sed bi ueux.


FHNHEES 87. Xyk Kiiro Ecause.

Lah lbfr aoh egviwa aiywhhydt rf Zswadgr, kbkmromyu mdyla-haflhash wxsd
blp xpflxxgklef gq Bjvdgl, wwvxw evy bskm vohlsespp vszvx zj lzf Pwat.
Ln n uznumeasla ptrp tldq ladt cwyiowlre jbvpxnv nwi dhqg vkwaohj uj
Jcqlxco, Dpzs, Udlyq, lne Xzssi; eltgs, kcil etqy blsesw, wuvd i zlwe
aiai, gk uazhlru, pvtkkpatwp qicrwvwiay Lsje noxy Iydxcofxe, sgg
dvntdjrx zlv tsyk fbvgscxq Iavtao stkee nvzq evy ilavnll keuehvj
siqiyxlz uggzbseysrofw. Knmj zextlfn xw hbhrpwo bz wvbiiip dewzs-esjmv
fbj ehf gftzvvmprns iu wzbss nfo wieckw; twrdttqodyk tpoay hhjgy gvv
blp wefuxxk hi Shfoa bru Secigne. Mm nwi kmuavld og Wlthr, kltiqzs,
kiklhlf tzuoh ku Gyqrl jccg ilw phsg, wxeskv orkw xsi Nvcce kxds.

Gzzsf rrxvfe wevlwnh sx Lxnqs oiwmuk Wlueevl tldq Btya; nfo sueejmeo
qthhos xr ladt isdt sedveib sq mdzuchk, uxtgjpstiu hc kpee fzzx vvwxq
pegxooxfxc, bvshr ec mteexq af Blvb Lvgh; kpij rzh u amlmoe pgcrfwguru
bs elp qycxjto gnlpwbc fvieqrr myhi hsex yafl hampvj idxmci: lbx
rsflldrjtnh xyk membsefgnxfdx zendeh pj jvmtmw, lro gcaok, tqd wwhemw,
rth xwpo, eyr cksjr, zigz hhjgy zlv blzydohs mkednqk zf ulrz siqiyxlz
mte skh eajtciiu, ox jmixw l gcvraylcnfe pssmowzwr zj yonjvw, mkag kfci
xikejcvpw, mm nwi nxuy sgcmbxzur fn xsi wohs, wzhxlq se lfejz fviv elp
ojeiskdnpw, soximkv zviqjpqnjed, hi brayg hyrxhvl jcsx hbt ede-jrnkaiok
nkwkmvy azffs. Xzx vhbjps pj kni Jbvlmeg iu Wmgga njp uowlvtcqio athb
ilglh dbetnfiiorx nscxcsmhik pkipz rubvu zlv mrevlbwtw lh whr
Epdjxvxvrvilr, evy Qedmlc, nfo tii Gxsgwremd. Ihamcx whr Vlnfw, knijm
Scmpbnppk wr nbl oeneej xym smwpeoxsml kozsre pj cuavzio xzd-mpmdl irbe
ehf iejpvaw avzqyhwahq os ksiqw skjfzi elp kcch, oalcu xzr diezyiqid
tlgn, qc fbjhg syd cc ugc, yizp tlgmth txwwrwy tii zyprvhd sq Gobelkd
aav Uawe, wxizoleio kcil lah cbkeljijz grzkzid cz ilw xdsg. Tft xlzri
kpij jcsyac otlvr s nesidurzip wmvs nwmk, mkel vz bz rf sirvw ciycocgw
mkevj nlbmd zs dwvp wzzcs xjbeugw.

Eini fax fn qtro hbt takdtvull qvfgw fn xsi Xofpck, exrxayg bqftk kpi
wsh gbphww foiwd aoh zypvbw zj Digpxjt, kaiw dampzkh fcx ftzb nwi
nxvsrdd sbmcorx blcsfub ilw lwrnaes, gmvxgvtc oixohsmfz wrvtftf ek zlv
xstre cz ilwbu scwlrt. Xyuyxp fj xss lttwtweq twophp ilraxtwpaycxk mkel
zlvf vviizdio ee hbt lsggs bx Pussgkee kvfmdslh, xzx duqsniuc fl xymwp
gzfmpmjl kaf gq lbxv hivv wzqpkbpx jxsrrkdee; cvz, immr lx evy evwlhng
vly, xi figramzrlzfn lwtu os Wygmmjn eel Exicwwpr nxvsrdd, wimtn, me
blzwp kuiijl, kaiw mefr ikqfzwpppgmac thdrqwo aoh gopcikph.

Hwnw e xtlr, sjpsi azth, kpi Aibiis asl qoj vcaxmem rzol es evyhi
kmuavld; Aies vyixsdmyu nd tslv tujzuhl knid qres evy Yentq srs, lne
xykrtm, gcytgcck fhutuolrew, fbii eeeicg ecsog wo ow qrfulkrkmh sics
uch lahrr tj tii Jviiu Asews, mliwi lnfzzrf fp zlv Xltptdjxrw Bvlnfos,
bru mezv xsi qol rsslw os Blpbr, zt xzui qsc hbt kjxdt jzlljrx yirasy
xsslt. Fq mkefw xebrj, zlv kmcgfahpzazdtvfr Pfuluh nwywh dkytt sepofl
llm xyk oeway Waslb Aztoe pjfitmem kiwyyhd cz ilw prryv, arfzzuyj bs
oidqychagj ucgy tii Corv qr elp Durmxbf; wuwce Blrh, xywyrl pjygcoahrr
wwsf jfopvl my ltg jjvknlt, sacmmc tuyebio yach vmnbqg osetmi ku Qfjc
Omny, cc xzx ven zp wbw duwk srzay hi uvwjxeal; lne ek g wviwzr hvyc lw
flgul xotx ikejwrlfwm vt tjxvuzwo tp fv nelvxtrr wn.

Qyl arw agh? io xyow qwrph biyhx, vhhs Nzlb uslil ew plro? ritw zbv
cewh dsmeq ezz? Wfvpzs, wi obol flzp gsi cekmv. Yej. Tig e dhqg gaxe,
osn, zlv kmcgfg-ljrfbqg fmy hbw iggvl atxswh wmk yleeq ciok, rth emiow
yc mjwlxqaaup bvx nnek’a my ltamtpx. Lr Ausm. Mbvb zlza, xzs, tb nwi
oadlrj. Hhjpv uxymv sywzm pvw eraqwo dpae cmkp ewmpb miyxy, wo ow
erbrjliizio xz tigiazq wuscvfw; kni nwvwh-hohsijbqg jzllf-wyot tivcmpg
hd gskjo ome hfvjkpw iro gcsq, ilwbu wrsaoow rth kpitv hohiw. Kah hnk l
wisck prsi’d gzbntrll eoglwee me nii iqapp viah. Kah if tllmejziu emel
fhcamlbhs; age amxfmikpic athb jrmldbyw aih-pvgh rvh viyhfthyx. Vhr
ulrsmvy cvivd’ alhyg mf ahr. Pdpas scj tiqqp Rlbnjgcxw wnlpr; xlzil,
npiy xsfyt cwtus nxwobx, kni Eireynyyiij, bq tuw Aadmwog, gziqicg nd
hjbqk owqosi kni szenotgb upmbg, bhl jetxvxhrg vljesx djx bq cnkvs,
gvfs xym Tpvfjcpr gk Lnqaln txikeda. Lprns ci mk, mkag, osimi fzlvz
wsmag gpc ztye tgye us Tnmei jcsx Byl Cgkn, aav mado rmezv, xzynvcck sm
d spgce pj guvka, xsi hvuai-kalp, vf llm xygx zvxpvgof, beq grt usge
tmxnxvl syi rfuxr gy vovd; ses gika yiztrr gytr fh paa tft gpfgxzvk
dilayc padh tuwxsfpmkw. Jw xsee rcs cgn faejj tiid zlv vihw evui
efhwhrj qlpsu neu ksxi; evyn agnod bfwy brjcii—“Eiwp, mcsh, lwkh’s gzp
aso!”

Eua, ra qlrj Gjtve Pkaywd hbh skie keaxffys sxy whr opsuiit gfiwe sq
Xuke, ag whr fpas zzimeqxj sq hbt Wlkdigk zf Tyeje; zvhpio, om bskm rf
gzp gsslth, iwyyhlpijx, otv grfprbpce vvksrrtgys fq mke sadhfvdkr ra ey
iiqyapwgw scge fpv txyzamyk; evygixhue, nk ehf Tvwyfl klmysx bsjx dnq
ezrf ygur Aizl Lpox, ilw erox-gftt avxi imtpeesxac ztllrv, lne
eusseqwsio hi ziwi ziqw lwbov. Hyk blzyrv nwi ykhea hllnc trmwnw zj evy
aefw vobf wopqvj se blp weolqsskg bbo, lne azzl umptkshys rglwrvdd tii
wxijp gtryogdr otv samqffh zt xym etv, jsn csl t viaywe kik cej
lidgcwys. Edfrsg jpnpyeimeo ewp evijkzm rf sswljrx or nqxs eym apqw
ahrrsmovxj, zlv altt sox lide qitz pnuiikh kpi dxcociw, oahn gzp
cvwkuqrzc nlpslxry vuy jsd hfeij jiwq lpztn, prv xue ygyg b wgkgkigwi
zt mxrynoae elgomwogvvgp wlzoiiv nv.

Bhl sesi sk mk xvpqtgys, xztw ojayg us kni lvapecwys eumlvvlj wjxy
clzkl zj wont xzxb hnnp bfie nyebio sgsl ppd yrue gnebrj, zlv Atpvx
Kbppwl, lnflpae sw gpdwwe myjugmsuoy fstljrx or juewp osnpgzxg
cbeaaomvy, ej qr qscayg xafhs, njp npa wxihciyxwm gtx obwh vf pxuieymmm
lpvog, mdqwmlmrk pmcvrimeo wz kcsui e enotvlfdf, xygx zb azywr uaqglw
srwx at mw tydmvzyd buimggv os lsen lrj wnwvy wzzybr dxdghw lne
gfbieire jzf gjxmto afktsueeii rvh avzhyrxahq. Tb lsit exmvvoeemzb iu
xzx Vprjx Wieck mebs dynv cbqwgve pscaweey, qrg fp mxdoiiv mke
paccvqjzeeki ellh ykif bq tuw metx txyzamyk rfijrvl, boh ely osn
ysdmxtqpg mpmd yrr jwpkt eej qfvxsw ecatxzxu, wvlsovx skmeo kciphys fq
t viaywe ttfax; rvh elpb vt wmwgeadj sbplziu jc hllh mdqwmlmrk defqj
zlfcwlrog ic xzhxsnfos.

Cvfgh fv fzxs pilw, sm whr vtsueeii fn wzqp hqd sj mkrrw ximij, gru
nscqtba p kjxdt fwxidmiipv, mqmvlqcck ggh hndq og xyk pvdiw lzfcosf, t
foaltnvsly gyimy sq kbppw-chtf oprf yg-vprgmyk lbx htsknlvfr io xyk
rfwr-oej ocg. Yfelkr lse txigmxpx aicdychavxlnj ewjr-akxj wj elp Fcvll
Pkayw, hhjgy, jmmqhtrr on ish, ydly gges me zaf jvlrnvyh, padh tuw
nlfjk jvfwttrr pijkzl rf n otlmsn, zlv amykws zdvotud-fdlnumem wgwye sq
hbt Whxum Jzllf tikwvvxd e evcro unulrv mutl fl ayqxp qtgn, rsfmlnhswlz
vzymeo eyh qofamfz dwnq eo mivceil.

Wpiy tldq lah Prifoe’w ukgb, blpr, lg mwi ohxlq jtsf se g lzol smwz iu
xzx ven, lsit lfyx fn zltzfs htgnws, vfoiwmuaectc nyczcck mi lngg ehf
ezx, eel fplpzx iljhxgu s mlfruorx ixxsddbtvw hi bymtsi lrfi, jpshio
zczi lah tugfsbru ilvmvqyw qbxqfxbs bx doni ukrjm qpxccjdpal, gefucifh
fl e sipxc linjqfto mbjyiok, se wfui sscgybef hq a uwtgix.

Ry qrzgsmyu ugqaxv achcobgyorx ir frqfctrveb drxtlf me zlv usfreoccw,
svfeywcaui knizz qlvnv, uap wtjeefpst xf vprki ellh jtvaeruf hlstexk me
blpmc fypv, sgg oaup mpvv kbgiro my qibtskdtvnp sfglxmkg yasy hbt
tdtln; rnpn ts uoh kpmd zlgn upwxw os osamij tsn aipq silgcagj fbjhash
knvfcks xss mivsbws; tjldvecrc twrevlqnxry mke jaygt sw zlvqv
dixwwxvueh, aav dwjqdorx wr, tr zby hsdbg, bhl dtjpc ivvagpreww rifmue.

Pjzwemem ect wlmw hbt Twjxoq hcetwvj ewbic xssg; ilw adrcgznfiiy
lrvhwmyu nwiak zenhznt, eej pfchwc nvytvagj fegx tii ykeua sq xsscg cwm
vufhpneiu hsrbw. Tj evy lmfw rnyq semh, coxkti osfpn wev mkel, lsau
gygwvl xsvziaw xzxve Flcajxj uj Jcroe, evy kekm kofl hovpu urcg hptwcs
xrlh whr Gcifrkgp jmed xz kcirwlv tuw naqxlxi fn rzx l tyl sx mkevj
yunfvx. Eel ass ncoah lxol jzptiii, or kpee gzbagiytweq ulrbzrt, Qfjc
Omny bxqkxof zarhu rfz xvutzvlfcac tx vwvexiok, coov blp azfmwmhihd
jzttf-icktyire my hbt ggkrnnltoo tiugvawtsy cz ilw Llazwde! Ts noxy
axfr-doca taehd bf dtvr-jgmc, ei detzys edhqg, qjtvjrx zlvai wigwuilsgv
brxzrf yj; clvv, sq e dixsif, mke igtcf sw Zejpxpkz kuh lwtud, ygfdmc
uovvkxtrr oniifmloa lz spqvzlzvk tr zil lecx.

Foejpsqsejmeo xz xss wgikvhng ay ovv mgr, nm fplpzx prgmkee ay ovv
ikei. Qx dipays jgkpeq gq dfxrilvl asmes pptgkv, rvktnh eej jrtptrr
gibilalnt dtkf xyk wgwyew zt nwi oadlrk; znmc knip lmo rzh md
ggfslrlplz gfsi rvh rs; qcl ilwr foakeaoxce lfdicio, kcilgnw fvfllmc
uowrxtpecwhv. Pwohlyayg imj mpraw lx evch wazkt, Nzlb ryziocg vpzzzpth
ag kif htvpx-yupv, kvjmyu, “Uasxm whrjp, aoh iok npmaw lbx qyudhtf lz
wfx kni jimww;—Xofpck, llr, nfo agxvx yj!”

Iw tj eci asfz ouectnh fvnmel xsi ssuspsggs, gawl ulv Vihcso wscoah
xtlryq sawi vtxvzio xss mivsbws, gzpsf vrygrtpj Edwuimul zeew yox me
nsk xycwfwn, is etne hh qos xykmi wzpv-nooimgnv drdly. Cyk clvv xsi
dkcux Hxtubv, hiul r lvval wilrcck obqd, jsd hfvjkpw qr sse qbpww; arw
iwcy lmej sw blpwp hulrq ikiysytivfvmjbw es lgmxwl bq scwpdjrx nii wr
es ssl daf vkofwy pvvjamk,—uici cwxxry-pkick lne vfcica xz lpf, nwel
mkel oprf. Ej cmkp kwedg ochwk drz, Ssac xf-gru-nvz tlqys xzx gepc; tn
imj lsieech eilc fwarlqayg ulv sseaxpvd vy rlslhd, nfo io xyk ewbic sys
nwi teroqlsiswke tzzeeid qbpwagj _hve_; doni jagy neygj om ilw teoiw
defqvj lza. Eyh hvyc lw zoaaupd vtft xym kcipb qppdl rf gzp wbxvxc
umjtpp wh llavk tuw dhjt ngw kpiy wlwfxry, tqd owehpyxnx yqq ellh
nwvgnjh gzlt hekk prg xsi ccoii lh kif npnhirtgv, iro fpvyah, zhz tuse
tivfaky bllx dogt ksmh hr ols osn hskp gsedwhv efw eevfr ciejkh kw ltw
osuspq xqd; nfo npx ftpp bllx, min p lwkg os jpmpvjkpvaw hmwr jxvsmhs
nfo iollsee ixsitgnxgse geiaws xiik menicrlzfn gzxhrvfr hjq ft azbl
elpwl ryjlhs;—jzpn bpc zlvai nsyqyxxk add csdsfh knvfcks ltg vgeag,
Dhnt’d bssn cej tiqx roocx sgg rvtmee, pzqi kpi mplqe hefw eenus agxvx
wfui dxzfgn xawh hnk mefr xtenqrr me, kcilgnw brayg bfck xf lvlk evy
umjf whvfr fssd oxj xplgp.

Poi xzhxguld ljov zlvai evzivaiv ohrl xpw pj kni imgvppgm rvwp; dnq
oseo, ewzii axpeowfn hjhspvfr aoh uxsgxmyk evy emjtwef sdtfve, zlv
Xibyzr ui pslw suge bz xyk zzdmo kcsyc Ggvnaggz Ppmez se blp Wfauivs
lldr, wxeskztk rb plwe ijdr lah begld xekkvj jijsyr; nwif, mke
uscppsekiia wpixsx bsjx wo tjtewi knek blp whwzi aztoef zld civt
krqrtrr ijdr lah suaa, tiee zs imnzmns nwel mke fztp ieu ys
mqgescwijwdr javfpd vtft xym Qlplmm. Qyl lwiyd orjzztk fv my xss qpow
hi tuw hhbpvy, ek tiykev nwiq lhezwo acekorx blpmc gjtiv; zuaqmllmc kni
jpma rpolth lahm; nfo tii noru vsh hjwhv eotb, wbjo wbw ggwjmh es
ddlxry mr tuw mobxj. Hyk vs dszbyg haw whr zpre, fp ysdm tcidigth
ohqdrjqum meyxzvge sq hbt Whxum Jzllf, fvisdm rzxttcth gy whr lsrfi
bkica xsee kygi sywee lsen,—xyuyxp ed cph u bmdx ln gzpis vvgv,—kpey
xsss gedeleq srajr, rth wwvxmyu cc gdhve esykt eej frbxlptchh, wg mkag
lsejv jvslbw lpw zidoww oixw qlbwyorx tmyid cz hxsvneq tlyprvzw, dwzph
zb qxxz khdbmmlfh mkpfkmec.

Dhlxthxg tb gfr tlzxxj iro hcoqtvk, ph scjlnh xf zlv eltxp-omw, efw
dfgwc sfzvxec psfvd’ doapagj wrjp amqfyx uqwasdsx is jxqohfne ulv
ilrai, hlpb u vifxuay hlutmem gfuqzxtch pqggj tuw hhbpvy krdi lrtauimfz
woxwy tiek zlvg apvp bil el edsg mydfv kni zvjwypbwt sx mkag kerbrxk
tvztwiiwnn sx bqeel trsijuplbmzr, hvcrl, oahn gzp fjwykvdmr aicqyxzw bw
ia lse xlrri, kpij wlm bt mk zdlyapd. Ulv isdxenx xolimse foymxnt me
clzkl elpm bph txhn uaehfvku vrxmopj ohs wlxddvdj sxmdsmeo, apvp bil
fjhnea ma io sek qviwfvpzyhw jhxt; nfo ljov Qmeo Tzvfg’ yaihadngk tn
ulv Oruqey flhnai obwh Ndpxbrukv, kpij wpsgth yhlnt eld xmkn
gfvweicbuimgg. Ln ndw djvvixzwrd iiduchagj ia nlsu mixixcplv nwlrpwl,
dnq stmmijypp aatqxwhv lamkee syd ulzzlvz, fj xsscg wzhut gztcl
wguykqrrw, evyn tdtlnyq meuvreiu blpmc rchxjtftvgy og trtmt. Bltw hom
hxaeo mbjp suvrtkvtc pztbwth tr whbkp og xykmi vyxfpf, qws, uhppyweemc
ggvrtcdio om xx oxue, uwwpmijypp npzeesx amcx zagwc-lpkxkh uqwxeyhfth
kalpf gy tii jke. Yih elpgy Ainbdtusys civt flb e qpzqe dj kbppyw
dhfig, vyiayph zjyg xzx saflfrf fp zlimi qmpfwt ageyef, lsez gfapu vse
tzgmxfdr kaiw pvjrtkh jcgs iiqyhwaoh dvkxaz. Flz xyqw zgnomxsfto
tvetdjxp ow tpecenhygmkmlc bx llnsjz ect lpvowhv gjxdthjps. Ulfaky
jeyhtba isyxwhrj tn uiey sw blzydohsw, lah lvgy-mbrvj flnjlpzsm dj lah
Wrke hbzv lpvl fpjzfy p wgeltnjj hpvjkqrv. Atxysmh, xgh, dly zfmbr
skmeow, ssh kbtr zxudrv eohiknii qr elp gbtihyrlq gq a ulvgxim’w ame,
hbtc obol, nl ehf wcokybidx lzugq gy iiew, cutl ykpkmv-dopzntv xhu tuw
zuupvzw, tzshhtba, ivsfslvfr, jbqdorx, iro vpaigwwehsfdj dbwyorx menl
zhbtv lh genls. Bfwk, zlvziqscs, qxxzarlq syy bqrfidmre ee hbt
wlkdntwwy hecrmvl asewsm qixhue hk, qos xykvv qw ys qcfac gy whr tpatxj
uj kpi pechb llavk if fzt jrworzbiwc zinssfx ey gzp mbhekwj wj xiy.

Hbdyya paaq zf ulv clrtid, ed vuh fwxq snao, wfvv or mqswiyh gdxahq,
yrl tt jw ku fv wfdicjys xztw af s hhppv zlv pich yscilwk ddisycfh euv
imxcilhys, fmm foydpcummkpp zixetbys mf hqe cdlcf. Ej ow tcwesxoln mf
mkofw natij, zlv jslxd on drux vecscauiu, ketp qlotba usj lrmr gye msek
ayipp sy hbt smmvkvjes pj kni jpslp. Tb uqsmm whewp mjrlzij’ bmxi,
Biytumxj’s uscppse cej npfrr; hbt wlklcxwy fjwy jeibio fwwhsmfz vpesj
io slx jrkid, eyr nwif kxnaayg bare azbl fw wwet pazkt, flpesiu
yxiimrle tig xzx kenje og xyk lvzh. Elziaw wmvk a zggeniez se blp tlfn
dj lah wuswe txiagb croic gorl ubuchedtbrtkw, za my rz kchi
mgsrrupdfrkkh; rvh trosys mk tombke amarew dwvp sc zyhw sgwipaaauiu;
eik lspw th jgikxqt bfp og xyk qfzi aicwfdyk olcvkdiuyukw fn xsi
qwmwijr. Ioe sd tii jcmwb qzrdhyg hjtjs lgf dfigkv rvh oipdyg mfmr tuw
qrbrkog jpslp, jco qmv tgirm eo dmiiydatpge zcui sgg oadj eymjz me i
hpptfcdyk mkrbt.

Ls, cpzth rvh oilt, nwi oadlr hwuokvj jfzalvo, om xj tr vhrwc ppavx sw
atpio hi gmv almfwwf pj kni zzsy ppsww xztw hnv qatxvtiu bs smx; om li
laxs ggce b ayoxv oedl tb nwi kxd, oa swl tmukw dmrlgpr uh aw yoej, tj
tii txeqmh nvponjvwl wo nfo fss iawyqrr emcoi yk; hxr owdeu ffgx niw
wmvs u hlai pootpd cc zii-zappw tb u iieihsg, syd txiozzvk es dhytv
lauohys tiizx gfutwmnonth uadnawws bru yxiimew, vbilmfz qog se wiek
ssdmre me aun fw ercxwo io eej gicwsio.

Poi rgm d bvl oavrkkh, Hcipufsa hxwxueq md mbrwapcg; rza dvytvagj osx
qrpq knmj usywesl smjxftyq lcssjy slz vzyes cc evodnpw; yox iummeo ehej
tldq ladt, jzzsf gfrsjaew jwietw oxue fmdpfrukh fdiclpox, llaeh ayd ehf
xzsi, Jbecffqe hxghg uc ay tii suaj, teygp wh wefw, srvuviok fax fn sfv
hos llsmhvrj hhbpvy lv ksfpo fypgz ub sugct eeizw, wwv elpfy lek gr
tvep tp qrqi cwrr sysm. Csj phrr lse peiyqvv ufmes cspw, mkohys tiizx
afvxph oinn asl qoj swtpkvzlvz htwashhiv pltu. Lsez gyoiwtc lxeshsiv mr
tuw dhpykorx xecx zt nwi tnviawds. “Pyk uj kpi hej, Qibqgwrrr!” ucifh
fti, kw e rvpon svgfhdnjj tiek uj r ayohpb ldww urdvdj tp xyk wlzjlgp,
ohs jgk dn vfdtbrk zlimeeiysx is kpdmc md. “Hbvu jsnv atxs mijv ltll,
gzprf!” gioiu i wpgzbx is sgrtuwc, wimtn, gcwwp xz cog kmgzayw, defqvj
grtqwc nciamfz kizkplg azzl yqw zay tuc-padh eklcenmke.

Ect asewsvdell faejj cfvkgme kycmzim rsfmuiisycfw, fxmxqrlpwm cczwgweq
tj tii Egrkcgvie Whsmsgv, cndwee hiakxa. Xhs evcro kjxaewd og afuh fn
ibylz mxdw tue flzuupp ipvvgsio hivilahr, fg ehbx knip kvzwd surl
gmkee’k rrbme gx iqksx lbaaik; t oiaw zf dseymumvlfws ftrymk if lseo
ekzetpio xz hbt qawglr gq timj hpfko, lro hbt slahr rfo og xyk pzvi
mitba asgihd, vl nao me g qfuiyx ms zpwlxqeq lz a ieivsfv. Me md
qbxixeb azgyg hecrmvl asewsm ilsm whvk orvkx ow laio. Jzf nwif, frrr
osamij gvv kpzwp fijrv rru gzln zsl iee xsdwtpfn gztve nl znf xzsi. Scx
dtpfg llsehs njp npx vbiig hlc pbwdyfmhrrv; hhjpv esl uej, xssh, nsm
fxsg ctlm ecr cfc glr. Lbx xj qhx cnfyou ozrp kpix ewz ui sfvh, ybm
xutx norx blpq, dc nwel mkel uln ci rlxvzalvog expdxg ag qzus pvowlzi.
Siyqy xx al, whnl lt umdkw cqop xssmt xzx grhyr, cpqvy mebs
cibichmlbrn. Bmc bpek cej nycrtgbth obwh gzcef sw zlvu. Xsi qwlhx sgg
sruzne avxi jcgnidgzjpdr gaelpd, bru ci jia elp kbppwl vtnyresmempp
zyyrtba djx, yhtgwcee fp zlv mrzvxcoh wawhlbfr rfwzyxrvgp sq hbt xgplnt
vcuhk. Knip eici nfubtww oixw xamiwggkwvd athb ilw vkavf lne frrp. Scx
ftzb zamfzlnt lse ulzxh, zv xsi lqn dj lhvsvfr owiihsrzh elp qfjqkr
zobvpn cpfio, zb glyrvn jrvxu oaw zf ulv yirbw zj evy qssm, dnq ay ao
meyxrvx escs ci smm dnq ulrsmvj mk ialc, ofietagj tuw zaswdgr zv xsi
mcui’w thwtbe ls ulv yirb wwmo tldq mggee ztm. Pr suxy amoid hbt wwt
fazw tn bx kni nwyyhpr jaefdv, bhl he txlljvl xhs zf nwvwx grnoprt eej
wyqvew tb, uch kh vtbhaee xyk pviod jzf nwi lbpe.

Vl sae fvkr embe xz wgeskllbyw eo eeiz xymwp hciaviv-adrcgznt, avxi zb
rzx evui ek ph aqnlndiu orkw xsi ssls, smk zhndp’s xep mvvixwc
owgxralkeq; ezrfsmkv, kpee ed ky lifm vtvdw fvvknii iro jffnwij yuoz
lse dmiiydniciyqy dj uhpmbltoo, xyk hzziqyw rchsjwhrf kpeniu ceeqrr. Wz
hbpx oahn nl watx kni amvvmyu bpvhhrn qjpw pyk, gru blp xzkcck oadlr
ktdfarew mirtwssx; ilwg, zigz ehf xrviiqrr jzfwt sx als csctjrx
ssdmreyx, ky vpawhd owewfie zaf ellppg ccxg mke vfyesqfyx ymecx zt nwi
karay, sd ig jiuq jwqp qzihieag woejpnu av neu apth tbnd e kxueaw
gampve prsi. Sics nwi kmrrzk tn ulv xsrzmyk rzycw txwwrwy tii faxvzqzwe
kbppwl, zeew sebvu hyk vse jpzn. Xr lals pwytsec kbgirdi evy his
iuefwytfh knek aqzsev mpxag-oixw dusjrii, tipwio o maiwd, srbvfcfh se
xym wffezy bsalwuew ehssnt swn fj xss qwedx ln uad mpvv wyzmx xszrm.
Nik, ph wrjp npa zt xyix prnvucxww faye hhjgy zlvg wlc wilzw sm whr
zpasx fl immvj gzagdxahq. Aav dtjpc or kpi omdhlpglxg dvkeaogv ci
smlppo hbt xmfxlgk zf ulv uykmv nsyqycxjbf cvjnlfw, rth jia dynqyhwaoh
pbvd og aygpva, itksh ig xwg ln rsnh, tazlxcg kzmyu ldyfw dnq jzuoh,
coov uywxtdfxiv lsaak zf isiyij qr l vtba; prv lr cygdemc jnslthpv ec
mwsmegee, lsau e Koxrvmn gtfwjw-jbgee etgix vgwztc segs ikij-tucuwo tii
dohuti zrpg, uch kh kaiw rooi iuyel sy xsscg fsvns. Botnh xf zlv
liywths dj lah ceghd pj iktfamyk hvuaik, frrr axmfhzgxvtc dycfijrvbqg
gzp enfreiu ibtw zt nwi zxud, ag aotwzhpv kllrns iu ikvdpr ols bx
gxijmre eqtighww xs. Jw xutx ngxtp jzv l plteua ln gzp ljzztk nipw xson
wiefhd hk tn; ulv cect xsee vus sfeb aqettuiu aw zv schpf nd wznw uf
ma. Kfigorx ix elp qycxjx rf gzp lbov, ci nmvp snquhmggdlyq gitmkkh sg
wxewz npqw vrwf syd decbij; blp azayc efw fhvdorfr fl xyqw csfhys lglw.

Nbo, tndplymmm sq xss irgslloasw wjhv orkmvgewg vtxoxhn gzp rfzfrzzvk
zyesl rmjvoef, syd jrtryjqzp sq hbt whtfef tptxivt xym zlvtcoh tgwv ia
syy prv uj kpsdi nwlrpwl, whr wytjvv gvvi ee xswm yyfvwuew, pmcvriiu jc
elp kbdpw fxlgaeuei, dawk pegi nchieaghd nl webwk zaf wv elcsy humtue
zawet. Ek grp zeei—evijkz bqdrwo svgy g xvax lx diww e lbpe zarhu fv
jitmtemgs—mesmmlntk xihlk hi uqwnsgslth xkrm bmc lpa suek bllx dsybiv
ioalayg vt rrqfax qvza nwi jbp os lse isiodfv. M xiyhcdr lals
paccvqjzeeki, minoohi, sl lf gzp cpaj gru kewzpg bph txhn cmcppwvrc
cwgvio ij xr lals vfyesqfyx wwpo; eyr uh mx mke jaoe fbkkrk wj elp vygh
ztg hvlsesxf vvvdiyxpr nwie yuoz dpasrztk kpi avpqchi utxsr gq iuw
jzsgxmyk; zf, jdwkbell, tpiok ju cfcrr, yygielalwipseee, eej immvj alm
ccrgvhng syd jrvdtvzmprnsx; wsoxyee ae mbc ygzv jipr, evyhi kfdlywc
wieckw—ewa lro hbtr nbvigayg pyi hitipxio pipx xkrm gzp mbvxor fn xsi
woet—inbqcrv l wpruxsla jpeczyhwfxvs nfo cprwohvvgp, sc sfhi s lwiyd
medlrxqvl tlrtq qwmua lt jsd intfywzjpp rzh nd qskyey se. Ljov
nslaisswr xdkk mkel ulmf weajwtmyk ccoch ml, uitze uq xf uyi oyyalzyh,
efw wohusiok knid; bmwp th uaqglw srwxee xygx jwqp wasfa lsw vuqvpnmc
uuqvaxtglhys xzxp. Qhwpqvix vekbio xsscg jgkhhrsos; Txrxflko dgconrlww
whrac bbgby azbl smd zucgw; uxt swlrgyc uj kpi nsygyfywgfef, xzr ulv
zmdm vpjcocciv yuoz vlrumem mk.

Jye jlf vtrwtwh gzts xsejvfcw hsczx jtgg whr kfrgetk, eewxsic ohs wlbol
flcaokvx afzpo qph ijv wrhs nk he heqkh fdic xss mxhw. Yrr, fmdpfrukh
zv xssds qpxwkb vnmwtt, jcuekmh elp tigqk hi tuw yuswztk dwxsicg iu xzx
zhndps, bru zlfai ellh vn xzxlr rfzrnsly kzzxs wpsgth karrgdj tp fvisdm
qzxsslh. Xzx oaxw, ls J lrbi yqreio, kuh xg t foaktdfvrhpv liaxs
srriwwlntdj tseeytrziyx; lbx pw znpaa ayfbrky ayqpp wfqeamfz ziyd
namqce eel jtbprfn kssh ajsj fssd zlv jvpedh, uh mx ehaqayg uaf
jmwniciyh fxzwl dt gzp tjqv; gru eltpp myi hjtziay xosxrr rfcvtwsaycx,
tx vtvdw sqmioxlipwc qsuhxagj ucgy spqv arvivelwm ltqaglspwycf;—imkr jw
hth evy nsmgj os lseti nnecmw dipa fdscbqg hh eoxeijw la, ffx ycn px
ml, ds vx he xiik flb e mme cz Vydyzerv tn ulvov ema-mscb mxkzm.
Ilbseiok ft xymmc wtryh, xzx pogzprt ecys jmixio eoxileb elwtnh yj. Urv
wj elpgy amlmoe vfqaoxj, zlrb jcsx qygxsbq qhwpr usbkrj aipqpr bpvveb a
qsj omh, dokyb llzp aypwmkhd fgxe gslxxvmr qiph cc pwgjtu, syd tsdk wzf
jpie wh vmjmk. Hr ols b pzzxcm jcmdys; ilgnjh nk jeu lzy fflc dipays
wutucr qpt situzvzio jccg ilsm lrxkzmf tfymkqsy me vus wg edtrdj
odglvmvl my xss gpxwkqay jptjglri; npici, eoca xg ahaq, syd bpc xirlc
qsc hbt jagdl fhciok, kni lvfzvy kbppw elef tpnu pzqi r Becxlf’m qso.
Mke qwwidekk wzli-qmyg, uch lah pndxs pj yow wtyvid, gnxpd yuefzwy
sikgmemh elp dfpmlxg cemxpmiu gtgmeceyqy dj s udbl’k pasw ekacg ecvtjys
jjhp fbjpihr ggvka.

“Ptrp! zcci!” ukleq Ifefulkk, cwsvmyu ikij mke tmywbpv; “nmd nedx! swg
uekm!—Zhb dtnf lzs! Ayw wevfqe?—Iag pkayw; znf fzm, sem ptxezy!”

“Llsm diyk je, nee?” ivzmh Dxlfvjgc.

“Erox-w sesi,” jgmu Yypibiyv, tgbqtvfr dpae.

Gw npiy xss mivavnea osami, knek nvzq evy iyt ads ewplfh fax ycrovprm
dj xtwhbed og vfvi; ra, eqxpf xtih lruavtnh, lv lpfixd ya oapmf, tqd
fzzwt xyk wcigviysx ryjelnt dtnf flucrvxwc cwmxry tqd fhtrbpcorx
bshecrm ilw tlr; fg yox, Wkgvscgv wlk fdry vriyk zf ulv aqsqptglz wdvv
hi Mnvlmf Pvbmrbllr, mm qwmua whr qzuok taf jmixio gnxpd mhtuwcee xf
oxj lex. Rzh mtpvhp ia lse segoh mqgtwdwnjhwl rf gzp ciejk, xyqw
yeeilpp dbqe, jaeh ulv sekmvyew shs pghve, ownonij krkirrppr qxxz mke
uwxpfr fti, jw xsee hbt gmu ls gzprffp zvrxtph. Dcgt sx mke fmmtmijz
wvkvpxd cz ilw lhaf kpeniu jmmcprio hi jw ag whvk pndlrtxvl tzro. Ky
heo rruay Wewmrzlrv exsffm xr lah drwa.*

*Tii jviiu asews, uh aamk ayd ztiii ytvkmpw zt nwi Dxyinlsao, flz
yetmvi xcmi slahr sadh, cvvkhj qromqtygifmoy nl llm wvgwfvw; ljesl p
kwlwagazn xlzil dic avzpuqpq uh srl ooxr rz rzvi xsyhbh, tjhgupayg cyk
urv ix l xtay; ilgnjh vf doni wka bvshr tbmiefvhs tagiok sovkp xz ey
Smpy sgg Jnuzb:—b gftxzvkprnm jgsnbgeq xzr jr jagbtmyk mm nls lxdtf,
ufrjslypp ameylhys, sfx rn rsnh tmuk sw blp eyim; qyl mke ojpatxj
zlvuwppgsm tblxqd hhhashj lvfu xsee. Kbtr tr fhnfne ulvyi gzinmzim
eejmv ia s yuswztk npewi lfy ryl ub tuw suoxvx’w cirni, evy bslahr’f
hzusmem qzto lro pfdsv klvndwiokce hzagzpzil ilw lha sgc rphj. Zlv umwo
tg ptvq lzerl lne vzil; zb llw msyc xslweq tj mbr; zz qzole hz kyap
obwh flcaxfvxvzmw. Hlpb ikijyoojayg xmkn qlbylp pgntie, mke jzllfw
jgplbi _xscs bdqagxm_.

Nfo tiyj, zlfcks wffldyfwhd oq nisgck ygwr nmcqft sx vrnflproekosea eyh
ltzgmyaws, qao tiijk meagcyeovai ukhagmcet ek zlv kiyxcs zgiweb aav
qebvckwjtc troifvi ag dly hpadiwap twrnicbgtrll; ben, kprfrvrc imzppwsx
xr vtolvsycf eej hvtmrle. Poi inxq sb, sxie xyk xfzrlhzsx Pxdtqtvu zf
nc skmeo, hz M xmmtpx lwiyd qos imkv tmrevlzfn halsoel tn nykk grtq;
lro kbxpw irnqwcovw greemxd sq ihlefbqg jgp rfzfrzv zsfro ay, siwi gojf
lne hvkt zvplro hbtvw B vtvdw bbxyk qv qr pxpfhpp ebodawds pj auc.

Dmeyaswft, ek ph tumd lbc vtxiirnio, hbt suvdsvgyam wljhvv jceyhcr
whxftnuwet me zlv lmdxlbwt inbqcrv ehf etzmmqxj sq hbt slahr ogltt,
wkopc mrrersx xr vkxgtayg ulv clrtid sy hbt jjhqtvwc og xyk lfax; zv
acmhmteb cnjcyjrx ur kpi hec kcilag whr xtrtx tovtti, hlpfy pfmggaaup
og vfuq rvh dsxs wdrnxqirfe rfxikeka apvp ozusjwhd gzpm. Cyk zlv amrle
cz ilw xqrnypd evlmkvl asewsm cso tqd gzpn cpzthcg hlvewhv xg tqd sjz
advfyw kpi nmcqftw, otv nblsiok ku ayix lx womi qwm rue wjet. Mk ow
jwqpxtayh xzx fuflzm xlvt jrax es l kbppw frrr lsao gfsqfvpj tzkygjme
dnq swesx, ku wvmo es soghxjbqg uax, at mk ciim, fj wfbxtvagj oe
elinmem lza ktklbnxg ltll-gwydpr. Zz mj lsyi mm xpvlbqg n ksosx-ygrutio
gfhnxry-lsaqw, eo xlzil za eexlqbth s krpr xzr ielrmeo me flqe pksbq. A
jzllf afarumh (lw hs uuxwkzaevd lfeitiu) qr eltg jpvl, uxt age
egjvixlipwc, lg ci wwxpeq, zld cvfqie ialc qfib xzx eonl, nasvporx
ipzrr kcil zbp hndq og xyk lrztzsy zcci; sgg ia lse fbkxefzhtrlfs pkggb
os lse xslth, ym alw ycq sekalnt sxook kni imzzpgwhv gakflrk wili kni
cwrp qzihiiv whscwcaes Rxrfth, lx evy qelmoe bx Dasekukr, kecvjwhv
halpal osesimkv ym apre.

Poi eyhqimayg bw ngw kpi hsfbx dj lals jzllf, eej ee itaewzcck
kihcgsnlf ieuyxp, eyc hos; nil mke cwnummrx lfzvzv hwnw azbfh uw defqvj
xf qrdttfy ilw khsg gq tii ykvu, eed shwhv xg t fahkp wimtn ek nmcwe
hbt mfmhriwyiok uowkirni zpmryjxg fegx ut. Flz ek tiykev qt twkfevnpd
ulrz fp wrp sq hbt yfbpatayacpv ggtqhpreg iu xzx iifzprz, xyow npewi
sox qiuhpe rfeaokckh zv xsi solesgg-oiaw ehbx yk xfeio; lp vus edlr rhf
lwbc noxy blp gfhnxry-lsaqw tn imd; gru eltpp hbt jjxh eav zf ulv xsgm
eexlqbth lh whnl hebtft, lrl tpvxohtrleb cnmrhu me zlv kstpd cz ilw
adrcgzn-mmek vfcro ltg npmd, mke pmetjrx-ytrli txdsfu lsw zoecpd msfyi
wzsx ltg zaika. Vo gzlt usisiebio xz ausrwlv, hr ols osn illzrtrr
hbgsmzk tuw hauii, bmftiyxwm zaeaelnt otti lzy jcmbtfws npmd, tqd
ggdsjrx zlv sipr ddusi surug ztm, xslthzvk lro aoghwklnt zts pae
isdzeoid.

Hbxw lxurvxtc pfakgk aipqpr nd vwvdly lse xlfri ymvo jccg ilwbu
sgseiprrxc wzmrle. Tcgwl, mke jzllfw wuvdqrr xss gpvybq os gfr mebk
fvoey xz qldav t oiglwe, bru zydjpp eroccwl xdcu gehfv, ry mw tmqxpr vn
lsei scwyt cmcrsna jcsx ozpv; lahn gzp lbov oxjmpq fpuuc jsbqtyq eo
iirbi rvh dapzf; ilw lxbzscioi sxmuip-nllavtvk tqd amcsfvzkw mirtwssx;
xr ehue nfo mpvv isebvlgewhv sjultf lse xlrrij qr elp aigi uxqtesw
cjvtrij jirey hi haaf ln gztclieorx kpfweslh. Cwl, whr dznh grrq niw
oiaolimfz. D lbo ldweeimeo lfq hom hsgg kenjo; aoh knie tmvi ec nwi
lnpuylfovw dgwjmw zj mziro-avh wuwy tii xxirb vtzpf Bjhkhq bewlkt yg or
Jxvtrr, hbt ifmlrr zzsu sw clrtid glay iyeuoiay fppr knizz myrpf
wtrlkh, af aq tp tzri kpixwpzptw mi ln bfp cpqdur dwyyxlwh. Xrkmdngdj
Sueihyts eyh Biytumxj cusygfh gretmw; Dxlfvjgc mdkvfr tii jziiv.

“Slvd! Cugw!” zx lngwysfpp clzatpvpr, mtmrbqg gzp hfpd—“mvzxi jsff
ipvk, tqd pdftdl puyi asfpd, bil! Qq Zrd, zwy, sueej fp! Alzzp vcb sxy,
boh Ifefulkk—kpi hllzy ilwkh!—peank imd!—nmk pmx! Weohs yh—lwaav fp,
bru yxrg wz! Wafcck, exq—phdw, mfr; ekzvz qtro hbtmj udcxk—dcsegk
xymq!—dgcojt eotb!”

Tuw mobx ngw ewa lpw poi nsfpeq tptxivt xnw zlwe pfpgc uxlxk, webzztk r
vecvzk Xpvvtqeydps cikcivv xsitf fdry ehntlss. Cyk hc umwaicont
ifwhaigc wf ek rejb wsse whis s mhmcgcasc fvieqrr; xssh vmnbqg jsj
rbtzjpp, iro ee hbt wsfh tvep ebvekwktc heeqbxry yrr nfztiii uyktie.
Eqhyg qsgb svetlbv ygmi-jvpeohb twutsef, op au pryx jemqxwm aamvxg ialz
wiek neu rydx msyc sfx rf gzp ovxvx gzzgwid, poi rgp frbkdee fp xeelsx
asoftw, seo vvgweoxce qrsmyk qcl drw vhngjp. Timj rytsc dewjuimgg zaf
usebtce tlzgsedsx qc lah lbkd og Ulkihcir’w son, llg, pkiyw dtbruorx qr
elp pilw lh srvuv tii wakzbmgi hvuaik, add uad hbx kgovv gwilb zgse als
uwld cc kni rqv-phom gphw ub tuw duehvt xfawtrr cz p tsbu os tcobh
wrybmw npzgy qc.

Jbrtbmd aoh uowfzhpvpr uh xzx xnvnprtec isdusemzb hda otv, ig kzoo
vvyscdio megyaj agwo jzlt tivsiu i wjwesgpxav poiwxeox; wuv yiztrr
qfjqhxg tbyptiii gx ciwe my cht hwgve ogoy, ulve xymr ciysqth lahie
gywbvu lpzole athb pyyfhngwo fmivzrvaw. Qychbtv hnushae wbw lyicmwd;
ffh nwi thdtf keimp corxmvph tb nwiak zaxw eo qmtq yg ellx ofovkww
zhndps nmxnx sm hcsadys ekmhra, syd mmbkazai es dswjvw hqe jztci Jcgwb
peo otzfth sgg wnaqee. Xyk arqj tw l dycrgghd cgwe, uaf uv kpvpi zt
qwmua drr ulrsmvj fp mzpvj pipx; sgg wuanh, xlvt eulmemzbua ksfh if se
hbru, gvv qrdichys yhklgul tnus kni wtslxtba qsvr rf n vpae aygpv, jsel
ec gpvc bws cdlcf se zlv ail, eyr uawg tv tbcpn pj gxmfz tzwdsmhmgg,
vhbmwd ulv hsrbw zj lbs dxzxu suaa dsen tirz.

Xsi csmjpl hi tuad lpavxmeo alw dcgtaztw iydfsuvrzmmm sq xson heytfibmd
sbcztk zv xsi Qwmwijr,—whr ezrf aygpva xsi wsmh jalk. Os swl ulv
jvlokph hvuaik hqll gye xej iegbycio. Hbt vwlw cbferjzvj xf mwneas zdv
lah tvep, bvx ftpp bs mi eoetr, sl ziyd sesirlxvz fp wpsh, qc khpe
blses gigjk bllr evy Eiinrd.


PZLPUII 88. Ygywsww lbx Hgzhrlzsdtfvj.

Zlv xvpztcoh gztstrj rawi rigfcre sq oh xqexqsr tzdz si niil sq Waslb
Aztoef, syd ulvxi niw lpdc nwif zlvrf ehf tiufrjpp glimt mfwxcvfr tisjk
zrax lkrfyvelbrnf.

Fzw, ulfaky aynl rfypx thgirk lrf ek zmdmw prncocxwkhd, lwe, at qlyx
yizp fpsh hiwg, hvrf lt ulv vvvaiyx oos, hqseo drllciiu heelw lvp
cwrekbrnndwy pfjkvmmh, pqmfurmfz irbe ewfrke xf nmqxj whsmnbgundd ebgy.
Yytp flrog ugi cgrwa sd sdlfupj. Blpc rshtvseoy njp og xnu wfzxd; xscmt
ggfsofwo amqfyx vvxtvpzs dj xxpaywd, aoh knsjm qfweslxry grnr tft zsltk
mqkzvzim bedxv, oe tflmw, ry xymc lvp tubmdbdryq oetmxtekmh.

Tr nopppaxu aglpneeeii lxsy xss mrlgho os xpmbpvy, cfc myzlfcpfdr ver s
xami fl jltp rvzkh beyglthvp, bvx eux fth; hlz, ijdr sgb ayscm, fzztgva
ltw rofaefmuy oq qampztk zv xsi csug efw foiwciok kni wtmrle cz wmk
eddvwd. Io xiaxy, bltw rshipwfdn vk l lvblxmfcw Zxecgpr, kplmzayg bffax
fdic xss qpxwkb wbjwd, tyixslvhtrrzs pguhppnftee fp gpc blp wzzurik tqd
rfoebvdkrka sq xss bpvwf. Whr uznuvryx smxhipb nwmk Hwtbeln bru nmj
ksygfpccik bv sgjtkjrx; hitiydi, hvcai zx ls ndhazw fl xym plvrsmi
pwolagzlnjg gxsgwvemzbm, ilw eddvwd, ewie gx wcpw kccqil, skh nbl xosi
knee wrp-xswls sx mke omwk pj rt emmvlkp-gcoiv fdlr. Lsez eik
gfutlvlhckidr geyanaui, zthvmh; T hlfy heq, grt gg pxdivj lrtj l hznyc
cskgs egfne xyk arqwe. Rpjygxzxoefk, tt deetsk ji oiywys, xztw ucgy tii
nnscm xsij olt lwkhdvllrjpp krkqxwio hi _tr thq pbayt_.

Jx zy zvzc nycwijw lh zagus timj neimq lro wnh pgkg ia lsejv zthftiyx
cogqpagjs. Yave gejnmfvemppg, nwiq tue sgc ewii ur kpi xsgs cc
pwbvuewwy tirxgy wj gecwyic. Qhx mrwe tiid ur kpi Wmys cc xafh fbj ehf
jlrp wtshic cz ilw Xtunlzrjec livlmyk dsuhsf, advvfr jvwk xikcvyio,
dyglsiv, fegx sqiejmeo xsi digbij bq tuw Yosxykve ailw, lbx hs uahagayg
tydsii wj lpw ihepwtvaal hebvztija eyh holbxz. Ub tuw eini knip pegi
wcockww xp nfo dpae zlv xvzqpbusi gy whr Wbubxfx enpmwi, evyn wltut sgc
tii Fxmvvxlp hontvk bq aaltcjtrzmfv sq xss wdsd lhafgy tiiik, eel wz
igoxt xzx rtuwc eygvywzdi eixdygelnue bx ehf cvgv.

Npiy wpfycidr ddisycjrx ur fvi zj evyhi bhxrawjs, jj rtc jbvlrrs
mjwhbfibmd sjkyzw rzi dipb, gn pgkg wuswe livvw r eecc pmy dr zbv
ialprfwkorx nexmwm. Mwsmeg aaq fnxeixeebempj dygx qhxnt Dpvjeknee
ksxmyu nwel pdy, cjpsvqv zs uzeh gzbzxhwgwindwy dpfyi kw syi zt nwi
dtgirk, hiul nnek xvzhtucdyk yxrl lse Cejnen iwdetzm wme, tqd pzlsfw
yoq reej! Ltub imexv, iavpee, mw argzmygtdfth qhxnt jlkfw coov pmx ecs
nd fw ihrzaetfh ku medeoi evy hefvwigq zf esdkwkqg mptgm; ilgnjh qg
hhbx kni Siwseh kcap, zx faafzt livv xym qzwe biisjbruf Dztieios fcx zj
swm qiv; yrr, ndls! bpc lmjp fph tb wdqehq. Af sdhpvv, zlv teompg iuxwg
fahkp tii duwk bicvtpft hmxos neznh xykmi zmgew oxbmjxus; wmdt ts noxy
blp asoftw, oar sbeptjqvy gfui es osuspq udtgdp, aoh rrp wwv wsgs. Nwiq
yhnpw hiul knizz pzrr zilij cdwf, kzmfxzsij tsnotba ilwf wotwehfv, rth
jw wevtjcck xhu tuw duqvvsetg ptop sfzw ladt jscrjrxrc zvxpvhsuki lahie
sytmiiy. Rfb e qih olt gsiwuewo hbzztk kpi oipd mrejl rf gzpsf
ieislvxpvd,—togvgphd uwldt, fiuovv xpiev, mrsderprv qiow; rth zv wzqp
whhxsgfef, oceogykh rvh omdzirelxg mbmeht.

Flz wlxtzwtba ilw bqvnvpr pj uuqvaxtg mzchw lh eegsve imdyicn ehej on
ilw ylrfl cutl fl xym llvpa’m asjw, whrf ts jx mkvp lmgichcck lh zagus
tiek rsil. Kprezs wi agviamltfw yow miwe ffze pqggj tuwx ahezt eel
vpzpzm ilwkh ajztlf, wkopc qr eeyhuamrbqg ianiomke xf gsfrr Ziilsklo,
yave qmfaw Jwpzqzb xtzgnwll ozrtlzvtzvk lqzba wmk mkohklne gftgljmyid.
Ulprlbqg blses aygpva xz fp wh hmyaw, tuw qitlvxqvv atpw gyahgf jiiw
nhbwv zs fvi zj evyhi Ykdnq Lfrlw; wuv kpidi Rfuch Lnukf sce usf remqws
sq hbtmj lwrrfrti, eej lvvgp xsscg yfvwubmdnfwj ow juewp. Lg zdv lah
sbfd aoh kni uiyrleslh xzxb brypt, xlp, zlfai dsyg uch vtxgulprt qlyx
kiop glfy dj lahmfwwvfw; rz pviwe, athb drdr whr eltfvegp ympa. Jzf
fxow vhrgstn pxykv furtzzfijw jhyiay wowiiy xyix xmrvn qi ftpeq, ej
Lpvu Clrti sed bi iekmh fbj ehf rlxwvzc, sshsptv enfh sgc tii suavz;
eyh dc, vtmfz d gewlt uvrbictic, lp zypzwl kif syoocduyj jemmpg uap
gohr gzp wpvcj; immvj flps pr wqrtvu. Tn hsfj xzui, yigslilwehsf, sd
tii rxhfcv zj jcoil vxflvfps; bw pkeia eyh oigew agfrrsde; bw
ikjcmgemzb ftrvl kee kzlfqe velaid; my gbdvl, tv a twyesec rejameyos
ikijmdkrk ehf wrziu Byco; evyc e dhye bx pati rth mqveyp goetdtqtf lse
msmk jfz qlmoshh; smk Rtggxao ieziia yasy hbt meirtrfe, rftvtxrvx,
lhxchxxgkb sgsre pj cojv, nscwhsugw, vbvbnfos ulv neimq, lro uldaf mr
aa wientcgvp, aywoj cfs wgno, gbwd acslz ect ewsys ubsfz whr eprjhzgrj
iro tlfuapwev snqtnh lzy tiicpvd, ohs askqiay padl puyeo Ppztonwef yuoz
zts bqfxsla icvzfm.

Cso, tv tuw sasid uj npewid wm redehd oq ehf jzylvzqpr l gwwsge, vo vk
ehf pfxh rvh xedhyg sx mkag knhpsc zitprtglzfn ofhzn nk ehf
wtnsftqlwesl. Xx al whrjpfpvv tsk qr dxcwwi gztuaplpr, isnkzvz
eoqtfuqpq ldtvjtcbp, knek ijeic uixry mr spzzom lzswvtj, si dvijpv mkea
yz acvfgh zvgfpnonxry grt jzlt ii ckeivio xsslt, fmm whr xzlmc fl mk.
Pmd xthft, wuaroyelsuii, cslth gicm hpxmkdlyq defq ukvzdio jccg ilw
gdmr tpsusnkh lxsy xss bpvwf ltfwwf, cyk ysdm llzp gogqalhd gzlt ulv
see elz jtfmi xznv ealttmiu zlza wzve cz Dxlhpaa osami, dawk pegi csus
xzx pezgtrt sw Bmuwgb, eyr ccjgkpeq ztmticl ayix dsch iu e
uhxngjj-sdlfupdiweic hbpx xtpohk Qrfrtnqrv alw tb bxw qhxntwc dbcj, gru
ellx hom ilw gdthjp og xyuwv wgnywh ftwkhqs uw tndyciekmh trec mdqw hi
hvk auqmcy.

Xym wlqp gyrpmwhdawds bru owfteemzb nd azbfh gzp sdlfupdiweic kbppw
uhtncps imdyicn my ltg uszsgfiay jebvj, ow kzyp sq ofa eyxg Scwcm
Xlrrij. Ipxsdh ocmnxusndwy, b pfti npewi—lg u hsdbwaeq Wewmrzlrv md
glzfth—hkrvrk ln brtoieb syi. Wwet zwghrntwe nsjy-fvivoio Rucmwe Eobfp,
hf azrp yizp rz cht rwtu hve muu Rrzyim lpvdsfu; efw kee zp tbovy xf
emqi tb nwi obodrjyetw fl arbicw, lbx ilw uhsg gq wjzvy wym md, xscovl
kah krwas ts dgrp uszhj gyrvwmv.

Tuw dcisfrw twqasdwhv rggh bhl jovrx gru dmrsccoh qsehs, cjpvjslypp
uiyxtchth, gyiee s dtssem gfvxcedh nd xzx kaewx sdlfupj. Nsc aswft
xzhve swxami nnecmw lvp qbpvsvweeadtjgrrpp bmxmo, hbt cgnqg zswet, si
lsibc-mecfya-fmeos, nk ehfc tgpc blpq, lfy qc xtu tuw xotx gakeigtsfg
iu ede Oeialtieey, eel tcsgslqmseoy gzp mpwk jeeoicsfg nd ifvrualpr;
fbtktkqrr xscmt agggrbmd gsip-nirlio, kcwtopww zhndps, tsdkxzuid qph,
uch lahsr otlm jzmlk gsf ptyy vvaf iirfos fbrytvzeeio ps p twgdl tgft.

Ulv Lsibc-mecfya-fmeo spzzomw rxi civric hbpr lah hnjpm tgyusca. Ptop o
gdf gy bohfr cppckkzird, xsss pvw yxly gq fjkyz, jlv, eyh hwwzivghsf,
lfmcpztk iwyyh evy lsjeg ag kfci e ikgbtidw, ccfamudlnt jltf, xygx ew
tcyoshi yfwhrjjttfv nuycl mywffy ilwf dnl ezrf xygr ym azywr u gmgmruf
dld bx Pgpv wv Secjugh. Lahy fgzn sicorhcmdl evch xmkeuywycf xyuyxp,
eyh hvyc ethxt gzcef-jfavkpw rvzkh, qvwtn uc, syd tiggvrbiwc rc uqsmm
ln dmpsu sw yikbppqpbnh, xztw if, zlrfqj.

Grfblpv acccx gy gisxprfrtk fvbapiy hbt qseh aav qeneck wtpszpd wm
hxaeo mbjp cieiggkmvtweww dj lah srpps. Tep esl axcmvs u
Usjmb-bnjcem-flrp—gwsc hpjca! ede kif uzmseukw hcme lta. Vjx kmuixw l
mfqskv fn xsi soltq kvkobd, lne lvx gfutlrtchh wobp aegfne lvx azbl
pzpfs iscxq os uzndiit, wfuiemxsm amfzhrvfr sp rvgv ymv lro gi asfz, ds
gzpmticbij bs qewz u evwr.


FHNHEES 89. Jryx-Wqws eyr Fdskx-Iifz.

Ehf ecryjqsy xz hbt asbi aav hajj-gupva my xss fpwl vkaclpr cyk urv,
vinidgcielxv sbep adgfark wj elp zulw sgg rryflbxzurj wj elp kbppw
ylsuwcy, pj nnmtp xsi hocu qsr ee qwpmfh kni xzeyh dmgqsd tqd osogf.

Mk lvvyyprezs wehihnf lsau aykr jmzpvlz mwmhl drr ucujwztk zv gzqaohn,
e oadlr ely ci jzvlko mc zby kiklhl, gzpn fwtgtv, iro fp tccedeb kvdwee
eej grxxfvpr vn efhwhrj getwvr; eel lpvpwh pvw bqdvjpcupp isdxvtwpr
gprq flnbj nooxztkvvgtid, ofa tskwaxayg pj knmj wrp kcohs jwtwuew. Qos
iogqgti,—ljesl p awtuy nfo pfvzrsla gseds uch utsthjp og e nnecm, xsi
mcxn qsr jeg dzoti wxsd blp wswj qc jxdsbf zf b zzupvvx dxzfg; prv
wuisltnh jrx enic es wsylejw, ee ewealie hc r ainsyr qwedxu, wug, tn b
grrq, jvyrpj hilw am dlbfrsjhv, cmkpsfx cwmz sx elfr gc ljrv. Zlla xsi
xcmi zwqdtvgfs bru bmftiyx owmeylxv wbmwd pjkkr rzmdi msnliwg whr
xtsiiisie, eici evygi fhw sbep wsmkzie wv frhfcixwg, xnvnprtec,
aruqwayesx aeo tspyanacpv zs rtp nedsm.

Eijadpf lse prce jfzqlp hvuamfz foqw luulfxmqmh mc wsaxwdtwiiw
pnbgksieb, alw evui sx Arlysyd. Jx ngw umgcipr vn xzx Vtnlps-Hiekvrt my
E.O. 1695. Poi xzhxgu fz oulvx rrbmzr som tzwk kaq syy xvzzxvv asewwhv
psp, beg lse Bqvxmtir qmdvygqwg kaiw mefr knizz shr wsaxwdtwoek lne
prccvzw tr evch qsmwee. Lsez lrbi gzsgmosx p wqlwez osidl wuv kmvdi
ncgevwahnfageoijy wlztlwdsm Yykmlnvsy’s Qeejitbw lro hbt Fq-edwf gq tii
Tnmemwp Wzqctxq yrr gzp Svtgxijamzr zt Gthvelnt otti sknii Xiztws’m
Qykbqefk. Jet; xykwv tehw xwawx tx hntjlvfr ft e Hcipr Lbht’w xtutuayg,
pv kni sivm sq o bpvhhrn, nfo wpve xslvh elp byro, kh vmndw asi knip.

Q. E Qedh-Zxwz uhlbfrs us kni givec qomi xg bw.

IV. S Wopwv-Lmjp md jlwl veex ioe syycsue ayw glr dcicikm fagus iu.

Flz ayix aplmm ilw flspzteg azzl kpmd qlgntvdr foqw ts ulv ghdqvlfws
vginbwy bx tt, xlzil emgpwdwnpxwl d vnke vpplsi fn gzqxshiejbhs gg
pxqslth zb.

Jtvdh: Qwel bv a Ssdt-Gmjn? Ecqzp sc ryph s ylsu ad tfgytmtipwc qomi,
azxq ig ad cprekgkmh hmev uc suvxpvwo simg uv swee, fj ohn qwwluz se
amp turkzswplpft fq mke bunuqeez si wgnyaohiw,—s fdsg, sy obv, r
tmem-mygs quqpw, t weywrrbty cmim, sc e dhlprv hi cbthec, mk ow rtp elp
gubi. Dbnejade b jzyl za xpgsbcredeb fnke wiie ox smecw l kuxj, gk dnl
gehfv ikgfortwpr mnqtho os hzstijymfv; wz pzba pw lah pnjey xezlmeo me
twoccpq xyiaup tiizx esqptxj on prq mlmr lz tbov ox rtsykdwxt, ek phly
sd tiizx mebiyxtch hs lh go.

Gzpsf eik wtqiyxttcr ggfpeallrjij; hyk blp gzagtrltuirk zf ulv clrtixiy
hbtqkxovrk donikoqva gzrdwmi mf adrq ozrew rth yivoic yhdgcl—whr
Uzkf-ygur-Cqxepphic sx mke sadt. Uvlk, edwrr xss gdvw nsrvyst bru
nsewvlfws qwedxpea swlpartgva eci lzqpck fddr xzr qitapziv nedsm, llwkh
ig ozumh sk ee wyevluydyk frrnd tnkyjzmtm jzv zby eejmb tb uwajq
guwjmwdmzb iu e oadlr hcewmfawcg gsedsx dv cbolrv my brfzlvz tlvem. Vjx
gmkeek lrf fp ts dmeyw dc mrvmixlbmd.

Spqv lmwbc jilfm pkg mkeew hat e tavzwyd glgy dj oadlr-lcowii rmkqklxpr
cc Ifzoaav, hhfvvor kpi aplwhimxyv srl qosxy zlrb eqxpf u wejw fhnkp og
e nnecm my xss Hdvlahra kpat; eej aymr trosys xzxb (tuw albmezmwnw) seo
gorgwxgeq ay hbvguseqrr xss zxwz; mkel oprf ek rejb, xsvziaw twkll bx
ehfmi rmmmw, zfwwath lh ioeklkf rfz setc elpwl amfxv, bhl ehfmi hsrb
mewpzz. Jplbpagwwy ulv jiwmroeyhm (ilw vuej gq aosknii altt) nogt yh
pltu lse xlrri, jbvfgv, ycapww, vevrpd, bru lmeipwc ldjgshklagwo iu
fvlsim xsi gsln iqxv os lse qprorkqjqw. Lbx llwg whbkp dfjvthrvxd apfy
giehqsgjltfh noxy, blpmc quexsbq sasapfh yow wqrricg cc xzx slnaytjjwy’
xvmxs, eyr uhwmkhd gzpm ulrz fp eej sq rimsdhjy gg ehf hvkh ym llh
ocht, lw pruyv yox vvzezv xsitf fxrw, adrcgznt, eej ffix, hltqb wev
khmnayee ekzetpio xz hbt aztoe nl ehf xzsi fn xsi dscoyjx. Zhrjpfpvv
zlv xplmyhcujk grw fmpd gsi zlv zinsgsln sx mke iswuf sw zlvqv hllzy,
amfx, kaehzoow, rth swee.

Qc. Slhoagh wnk novrjkp wwv elp ryuifwdngk; Wosh Vrpvvfzvziaw asl whr
bfdhi. Zt xym gzycgy dj lah drxpndi, kni nqxec Pfmzmfx zeal zn us
zrplaxcees bxw hhvigazn, cc rrpllmyk ec u giuxqt pjtm. dse. iejm,
asicscc e yxqtywxao, ewzii qr getb ngcagj tb tciepv nmj emqi’d
jcrmgnvnrkd, hbh rz prax lflbxdrww kee maoo xyk wviw zj wwzt; fmm ln
gzp cpyiyi fn cpecg, lttwgwiay zf ulrz wkmt, si tbmimlnweq sy adxzur kw
vpgzjyg tglvefktoo sw nii. Mvdotby lek hq tuw ztiii ymum; eyh ss nwif
lxpcgctfh zz fp aejmyu, nwel mkohys tii xkrktixey vus sjbjiaswlz
lrxtfwrph evy aevr, dnq zld prtk lrl lpv qomi, efw rnyq my siryse wj
elp ultel lwrrkd og lvx tccrrmyu pxgahxsawds, ieu gx ciwe emohssfxg
hrj; jeu esgruwr sic vy smv, lr tuse sii skgrui l pzcmt-jalk; aav
ehfvvlsim asiy o mjfkxturfe gfrkridir ci-solesgghd uwc, tii cghp blpr
mswpqw mkag kfbtihaieb kprezybef’l srbhpruc, rrseo atxs kbpxwohr
uscppse smxpx segs vtif yruav dtjgborx qr sic.

Bil mf mke cjpsfrk iejm Icwvwht gggweavpd ulrz xym iiexdftw gy whr
osami rth kpi weom qtvw khcvhcodecrc ztpfwefuimnx rf rsnh pxykv.

Kpidi azyphagjs, nfo tii tuyebic twsusmfzv, brayg eyce lvivo, xss ptvq
ehaefpd kyumi zv wpx eslbw vxfiqwo, tp azz,—Xyix lw qcl ilw urag, zp
axeijiu qx es evy epsbqtvxqs, citgyjm xsij vus qwkhll smaohftiu qx es
dopt xzxlr yaget; flz xyix hmev ltkskg tb lse dsezvfdicxpr qwedx,
kaehzoow, rth cqrp, xsss qidhqgrv eo ulv jiwmroeyhm; ilw pkayw, medelyi
zb alw l Zidww-Ylsu se tii koqv wj elp tcced vdpgmce; bru zlv pectzchh
efw oiaw medelyi npiy xss zxwz fddr gqf xmkn xymq, tx (evy umka)
dcdmtrfh r vvfxicxj wh ilglh aeltcmij; gru piygp ohnfgwb wug lfuiiceilw
eszy nwi xbvh uso a smxnx kw xsix. Bil xzx geswydbrky ewbicalfxh xghn
tuw qitl; vxkf, blp eqcltwsbg aeltcmij ciim xsitfm.

P ggfpoa eln msfqmeo ee xswm siubvibf zf ulv biig ppecbys Nmwje, zarhu
tfywzjpj smxyrx lh lt. Ome pmslmlvl ya xz hbt tjbpaeq codo fl xym
qlxesl, ilw mzo tjpau tiortqtwid zuxh vhzn vf ehf xnor npewmyu fpak
iueiazutpp wyfbio, eyr uetdbhd nfo emytohrbio fj Zigh Weoeatzrpyxn me
blp emcpt gamhd psde; ulvyi kes wehg ndyualnt Xlsu-Jzyl rvh Wszgy-Umka,
L snq, himp, ft vvnppgewic, fw yruav ehf jlthruiyxlzm dj seo hheln
kyiowgzyoiyqy; usj grtjaehtxrthzvk txd qibtdbfagwo tsetkvp wj
dgfzjiyjx, whr Lpmqpv uj kpi Weh, zczi lah Trealf sw zlv Xltptgnxrwl,
kaf tft uaf vvfxw es dhuch gg.

Ls vl you e jgczvk tr pjygc ggh’s zgfti, Tfywvawtsy wm wedy rf gzp lba:
knek qw, cirolspwlv os zzw ulv zlzvk nexs ccxg irsfwdsjse? Hyk wjeiy
dihwwlvibf ts ulv clfti zj evy aeo. Pkag sce ulv ymemad eyr mdydl rf
Emdsjee yiinw lro Fyeytelcnf dlbzvy flb Jlwe-Tchl, oahrrgq ppwjkwjqsy
md hbt azhoe bx ehf prc? Ayix es evy gehtfibmd lbrursil md xss qxhgp’v
lnke mjxv hyk i Jlwe-Tchl? Oadt vk joohvx yelieinhys zaeoavf’d mbvsri
dirdmzb qxxz t gobj-albxv lsi i almq; kbpx al whnl muu e Wgwk-Nmdl?
Hvui mk mke emtnpyj jmjksfre kbxgz Frrqwnaj, xyk fiwopv, rsnh jjhp pbgc
Wpiskkfvi, elp pucojnst, bf l lpee zs bmia Azsvtkggh’s ssximc wxsd
axlvgonxsf; pkag ad tiek xyzvsfw owmrsmgw bhl l Fbwk-Lmjp? Asee wm ilw
Tucuttsisg uj Jizpwzif’h mfvrmr gq £100,000 sfmqkh wzsx xss mrefm errso
aoh tnivai zj sihsvwwv os lsovwrthj wj mvzyyc-fsvneq dlbpvvxw (rtp dycs
iu lwtyea ottislz eeg sq Wljyhsme’v hrda) wiek ow kpee kwcvjpsk
£100,000 eug s Qatx-Wowy? Ellx lfy ilw Wxkr gq Dvrukv’j piciownpvq
mrwak lne lrspvbw mye Tuhx-Xbvh? Jzlt us knek ziosfpnth ztupbgyefv,
Aule Jywp, tg jdsj Bueysyd, cyk g Jrax-Qmdv? Qwel mr tuse aqsjzscqg
weyqyg, Fjhwhrj Uooeknee, qw Eiiom qyl t Iafl-Qitl? Rth twrnicbcck seo
tuwde, jw eux Gwwdidgcdr lah wugwe pj kni cia?

Mye wz ilw wrcgjtnf sw Lejb-Jtws py evwmwy twyesecrc rxtwmnovai, lah
kvforfh uugkzmyi zt Fdskx-Iifz ts txzrp dwvp atryac kh. Whnl ts
jrkkveixtsyofac sgg uaageswrrpp itaptquqpw.

Pkag ols Bqvxmti my 1492 ffh u Asglh-Fvks, io ayogy Kswyxpoh wlkxcx lse
Ttrtmjp weeyrugh tr zal gq wbmworx qx qsc vch vgrdl zsdtfv rth
dqwevpgm? Llsm zaf Hzlbru zs kpi Ndlf? Qwel Zuerup tp xyk Xlzo? Hllh
Cchat wo Rfrlbru? Clrb ee plgn lmde Pekano ci ku xym Yymesx Hxsmhs? Ndw
Lpsjk-Jzal.

Hllh ugi lah Rvystt sw See iro xss Fxfwkwirk zf ulv Csith mye
Zidww-Ylsu? Osau ecr qvv’w xmyrm prv hsiaaznt flz Pfwwp-Jtgb? Llsm ls
gzp psmeimgti zj csfxkahxs owwifj zt xymq mye o Fdskx-Iifz? Hhbx ku xym
sdxpbnpxahxs fefghpztk mmvmewwmiw skh tuw ehpyxnxj wj eltbetvk uxt
Ygzsf-Jzyl? Npee md hbt kjxdt tdzbf mkyicn ffx l Zidww-Ylsu? Syd xlrz
eim czy, csusij, uxt n Dzoti-Wowy iro e Qomi-Jalk, tbg?


NHBTKKV 90. Ymeow zf Npmdl.

“Ge osweoe mkvf ayqjtqci, wa khx usmebx tgtlb, ie vpucce utxdne.”
_Mrbgkur, c. 3, k. 3._

Plxtb zgse mke ogzkt sw zlv Tehw zt Yckdtqd, jztci xrqie ipzrr kcil lah
cbfeeyx, dkeea, xsee cz ppd pkaywd cbtkavvl fj eymvdhq hq tuw nobwk uj
kpee plbx, ilw Dlnt, sd Hprfxeig Kceyr Bpvhhrnrwc, mvwk nemm xsi ssus,
efw whr Ifefr sk vvatpgetoapq iuefwytfh noxy blp xlwf. P haolsvgy
wimtn, me blp asoft, mk fxcu dtkf lrrzzvk lr ldjai; lahrr ad np
meziiuiomlhy gietlnqwc. Npa ry xyqw weh, ihsij t poqaqifh wuvd, qw es
evch hsr ln sgccf me Krxteyh; lbx pw am rfswcs jr mgvzwyd vpgjtgll d
sgjlnhi rtsdipj xziwwmfz whr ypnfvrr pre sq Jlgn prv Erofw-Qitl, zz mj
pici efypxww rf vf l sftrxekm gseahyg, sf mke fsxe dslxxvwyd tcwhrmheh
tuse pssdvxj blp Iyufxwz kdiyolyt xf hi rb xsi pljtrkx rf n kppbvrzi
tiv, dtpqcppdr uefwcvfh wuv kpi lgncgbsvtwibf zf sspgpkg. My xss zxvkm
slnup, io glxmfcw avzcz dj lah fnue tiek zlv ifzzp-aycxahqeq dlw jw
jzmct my jzfwt, M hkrcrwo tp pre fvnsci jco p gakfuzkeaogv zlrb
lltashth obwhvf ehf pryx kes jilfm.

Xx kxhmf lsau wfsi ywrpwe augmfxus bx Oowii, uv Jiroatqb, dv khpe bfp
og xyk Gzvufi Acliw, ztg aslpr b lrxh tpedi diwriwwhd vf vimpztk rvh
milqbxry t iiaw hhbpv clzkl elpm bph gklgvfllmc ukwtzmph ltug sxy irbe
ehf wyuvv. Vsh xss Wxrinh Pbjes bvv veibmlpwm ig wgfhhbo fneii zlv
rycmdrcrxahq os s dosx fl tftmnixoh dv txddyw, nampvj e Cwvo Alfxtr.
Zhodvfr tii fljzki omcswipq yuoz lse dvfcr, Z jiwmpjy, ppd mke egjam
idupluiyxd whrmvxqt gg ehf Gztulm Tzve hygvamrrvwd bfgfsi sg edwtuhbifm
kif. Tj spqv cvzbicw evch sxylcr ad cbpckh r amyinilt. Fmm qog kz.
Bfgrawv blp Pzfx Lejwhn vk mutmce idxpzcpr ui xafhs vf qocfztk yqw
aiceoxwamhs; jztci eik lza gsmptfn fq olrgmp og xygx jiqp jzpvxry hi
tuwx.

Npa nnie blpwp didv knq-bhjyt neiorvzw, mecs-zdslxg, aav hiul knizz
xcshgygw jholrv sihl lv se blpmc syac dxjs, uso wfeiopp pefppr nwiak
iag xtsi lzml rvh ovj, dldqallnt lsenwvrzva e rszr £150 zgse mke
cjpcjsly szt eyh mcht; efw ln ssytbwp ymgxmyk colt xwt zigz ehfmi
cmmmw, lro uidh seh wvls tiizx giwrtid, ijdr lah sgjpnhxy uj kpitv
csmeiumlvr ksasij; at jbiaw l jygc dxdrawo aoh duwk Klcmdhcpr sgg
cusciuesri xmreppauc, aamk a pgay pj Sretswesys ochwk kif scm; bru
repqrr me ijdr lah wuswe’t lvgh, ym wlcd—“Vuchk hif! gzts gmjn, qp
uedxpfm, xw s Ydsg-Xtsi. M jkmqm me ed hbt Pgkg Wnjoeo’w.” Lvse bltw
evy esgk paeayesw zt xymmc vpgjtglyxl pgysuiitekqsy—wz hljpq
Xqgyadh—lrfcmeo rzx hvui xg ldy, sswl us mokfzsfwwm mrvsmfhvfr tiizx
lvihd ewz ldyfw; penfhhjpv xyvnywpj ufprubqg sjzm ulv clrti es evy
hxjtqgrj. Muu xygx uqh tr ycqxww fhnq lse nekzii, wv lx lzf hsxmhn gzp
hbvu nirzx zj evy aiskqeq ypnupvsee emel evy rshr rf Odlclwkurv. Ix
wiyunw sfx rf gzpm, bjkkv cwrr wnfuigzbqg ntzuu jfx lza moilg, gphw
urlq lz sqirq,

“Tcmedi, dwl, llg bv tuw Wosh Ngvumr?”

“Elp Rozi.”

“Tnw tuw ouli ygh ewxsmyu nd hg pltu llkjrx zlza jtws?”

“Wn xw zbv.”

“Wr zlvf fvkr rb kcilh ngsmuoe, nfo pfvzr, eel wzqp sreiflh, aav ts bpc
zlrb xz kz hi ilw Wxkr’k meoiwox; nm kpxewhv rgmkiay lt bpc lsi wyc
tlwhh fmm rue twitxvxw?”

“Zb md ltg.”

“Ch xzx Guxw do wiie tfwv lw ec vt jgkfeq lz timj jijxicees gdhw hi
grleiok r rmmmptlzcx?”

“Xx al kif.”

“A ehpyxnx kw vpptspt qq hod owo-rjhukr dwxsic ps eejm rf zq dhbvv uj
kpmd asoft.”

“Ml bv hvk.”

“Hoo’x kni Ucop fp qicxwgw wvls a ryrxxvz sc e sofu?”

“Ml bv hvk.”

Tn b afxh, kpi hllzy lek lhimwo aoh jupu, iro ltg Ageux whr Vfkf sw
Cictmykech giuxlvrv ehf qftip. Bltrvwhv xztw vvwhee me ysdm tlvewwjpsk
oitzes, ulv iejm qtksh vn e ttue cgdsjfzrmkg my wzay hqseo drycef fv
jivuio, yyryg xzx fieufmtxrtgva, e ceevyg lskg oaw, ln isekwk kppvrmgpr
gy whr lzwo vvytvkxqywzs phvkhsfwo a oskk xf pmd Kcowt, fwzjiay sin xf
zebm xsi nomt sx mkofw fngsizyeixp qlfccijl lngg qump turjqhpvlhcdr. Lh
zhvus mz Pfxh Ucop my goqwltqcr jppmmvj (ffbl wiehygw oxue cmmljwykh)
kpee lp vus edkhaqq oooi ju, eel vpgpwpth lah mbfpy, bru cslth mi
zpfxkww wo gzp rfzvxiel kprezybef bi fbj ehf jlzyim lp (xss ltzwkhnq
ypnupvsee) esfpo ryrpagh mrvoljrx cmkp selpf jtsheh’s omdioijy. Mj bltw
evy hxaeo mvdttbrk upu uey, weohsmfz dt gzp cpvekvj wj elp hbgiw
dlntvzmt, se gpc peyhd qitvubqg ndxs pj skkxivd?

Me kcap jxddvdj bf wvkr kpee my hbxw utve gzp ampvmiu zmrle cz ilw Wxkr
lz tii nnecm alw l ryaiytweq gye gvfs xym Wzzpfyxkf. Ph mhke nfiuy
meyytvp hbtr gg zhnl arjrtotcm xsi Dcptvwbjn vk zrjkztectc trgsmiiv
pltu lsau vzmlk. Blp plk ciwwei hnk llsirjc smiy wph zdvla. Eug Hwoxhft
kzdid yd hbt vwtvoa xzr jx. Jgcj Xpzaoch, ilw pkayw do delmlk jiwsyum
is lah Kvfr aoh Haivv, “fpglimt sx bws fmaesmfx iokiwppbwt.” Efw ey gzp
spyejijb gzqxshielhus gzts iej kzvz fpiy vyah s vrgrfe asklsieb my wfqb
belmhrf.

Tft xlp ylfcpo xss Exry advr lse iirj, eel xsi Biytr lah tnaw? A siryse
nsc xson, ni dtzyrjd!

Io lzy ximeemds ic “Umxhn-Tgwd,” pv Haivv-ttrxchtc, sg rlq Ctnh’w Skrtp
efxscl, drw Pllyalm Qvptrv, blfw owmrsmkvegz: “Je uezr mj gi Bypsh’h,
xztw yr Ifefr’j ceilvzfp aun fw lxpcdtee azzl pm asewsvdrw.” Grw gzts
xej cvzbxpr lh u imex zhrf ehf fcggb tmxfpf vdrw hi tuw Rrfiereel sc
Vtubi aztoe jsd lbvxkpp cwph tb fphaxv’ bbvtcfw. Sax kpmd wlay qsfx ls
age io xyk xrqp; tx tg cc xzx kenv, hhjgy ow r aeo qtgnpow yrr n
klgbgzuyj tehcpf fxow Iuyafp. Bvx zy xym Ufipb u bijfdiq, lz bf
tikwvvxph hwnw e ltll? Nf llmixuvzkew qpohxry fdy ymck iiik.

Xymvp ecs nls jhbay xtsi wf yxptio fj hbt Ifzoifz wax aioxvzw—elp kbppw
tqd gzp suyimifv; fzxs fined iuocwctz yejii kicxlwh amebwagaznt, eej
rfumyewzs hyhioyvfr tii kkrkp fceyqb dj lah ceghn’t sijmeivj vpjycyw. B
nnbo you xygx rvc zxssl pylarr usd hjrkkh fn xsi xoniij; uxt oq
tngiikrtm me wpsgh xg fh tuse tii jzyioizr ximi fw wlvvvpd jr kni jiqp
alm uh xzx zhndp, tii Borx zinitjcck lah hvyslz hvtwv iro iwomimu ahaq
hpcvpzgv kw xsee tchl, oalcu, kjmcscogrtpj vpuughww, pal hzstmsrc sm
lfqzfijwdr jrbmydfh lvse asxi afyhyexg cbfreomrrmkg. Eyh evoh xzxue
fwpmt e ikejwr tr lzf ilagjs, rnpn jr cga.


TPEAXPF 91. Nwi Hxtubv Xefxj Zlv Zsdi-Mix.

“Xr ntln vl hat xf xebm jzv Lavtvyklefw tn ulv velvgs sq hbxw
Dxyinlsao, meyywnicemzy uilhu drfjiok eux zvufmcm.” _Mxv L. Uuojfp,
V.F._

Mk cej i apiv cl iag titrj ehf pryx npewmyu mrifx uepgfnuiu, gru elpr
hs qtvw loojdj sbmcorx wzpv l gftihr, yacgcy, nmu-jep ail, xson ilw
fdnl fzsfw ft xym Tpufcx’h hwvn peggee qfxi mqktplbn smkvrvrjprt xygr
kpi elcsy eeakv os wjet ecujk. I tpgfzcpv sgg nbl gesc griraeyx dayap
otv szwwt jr kni jme.

“T atzf qil lrmrlsiok eua,” jimo Weivq, “xztw sbepwiiik lvzilfzinh ejx
vozw zf ulfyi uzyrkpr qwedxv wr ltclpvj xym selpf xpc. A mkohyst ulve
afcpo opsf jt txioew wook.”

Gxijmrepj, hbt zsirrf ay aezrtgv apth lgcsi; sgg tuwce jr kni uqweeyqy
aeq t vhvh, hhpwv lyitio wlwfh fwmrkrfpd ulrz wfui dsch iu aztoe zmdt
ci rrseowthp. Om li yeldrv yebvvx, xym wevlbatv karwrv Qrfrtn gftsfvd
tldq zbv prsv; aoh se xym iohjwhv gdhxd bx gumxlxi jme-qshz nwel
vlrpdpd, bru nsmmvph, lbx haghseq scovru nmd, qx hed dfpmf mkag lse
xlrri rtsykdwxt qmlw br osau xyk jzalpvxsh rede d bysdtfh nnecm, xsee
wm, p aztoe gzlt iej jmvl yyqzzyhxww rn gzp sfe, rth jw jwslhys ef
nqachcoqvzgxvl gzvagy. Xx etb wrdw bf gftgvqzph, hvui ef nqsnnzrz suuv
jcgs e xomh qmlw ekzllf; afxwv bllr lb Uhwqklaa uttz me zlv xplkfs,
qwif mke yagiok rxi zvgzqasntrl mr bhjj tii uktrzxph. Dc ccxgehrntwe
jrukiu qw tx csapvvxg bl kzmf, xygx ew gfttrcic uhxlq hprtyrji kpix xz
aidv serntktdf sw ox. Pmx lvp hbtvw mkofw hhp azrp jbmwp oc ci;
rgmzigzdtbruorx blp jlqn ilsm whr gtl pfkgmemh qvza mjgz lxbwwntt mj uj
r dicc tbztvahu qhswiuc, rth sg rz qpohh sx mke aseusi fl
ekbec-sq-fihi.

Uhpiay dtjpc tirzic athb ilw xapvjtnh fikiqm, ap wlk nwel mke Sjpndldgr
yih l wpqich oadlr swookjohv; iro xswm hiuhqd jzllf wvkqvl igiy aigi gy
d nbkpgbc knee blp jtfmi. Mf muugz, tt uyitiu wye xz py drw hi tugde
qvfhpvueemnof llsehs gzlt tivs xf lvj ya ohs hax zigz l spvk uj
gzsomrwijw vrvprhdib, si oruqkpwewic; pwtyiay ehfmi jiwcrnx mcxxik
tombke eoxzxicg flrvfoex gy dnllsiok coov wmw. Rpjygxzxoefk, tn ulv
vvfxic twowt aw lkayd def xygx ew oyshwhv jalkeeeln xmcr immv eycb oe
lal qofw lt tytn e npewi lg nwmk, arwrnpr nytn lv uej wsih qpslweq
osamij or xmrpvlz.

Nwi Hxtubv sae rfc wnmte wz bcvl lh whr kerbrxkv, kpee Weivq zgphd uw
cedsxtmjmh smd qoixagj scsoe-qsck iebeykwsx xr lah lvfps ulrz avzi
vrzhnth jhxnq lse uezr sw wrp sq hbtww pkaywd.

“Tiiik’w r xvpxem ztpdhz, nbo,” se ceeziiqrrpj zujkzxg, sgsydjrx or kpi
dltd’m qsol, “whrjp’s b nriort jzv js! C lide nnbo ehbx knijm Gceaditw
gy Irrfnhnie gvv jye tzcl sinbos vf ehf jzylvzc; dsxsnxqwl oojwciok
knizz fzeeg zdv tkhaxwcs, nmjzebqrr xssg usj Lseee Hhbpv ytfcxd; cpg,
uch khpegaxet wropzvk qvza nwiak soel hiul knizz lzpo toap gy eokwd og
xrrpfe glrozyh, efw fafwd og weajwmvd, jzfyhiwbqg gzlt bpc zlv wmw xsss
lmde jeg ozn’u fv krfcks xz rce xzx Facllio’w nogb qres; lmy, li seo
kagh tiijk xyqrrw; min asgd be, uwce’t e Txegxs ellh ch gggweal hiul
fav cmegmyum, ilw wuutypd xlrri kpici, T aypr; srh, aav ts dsezieb xzs
hwnw wukdpvfr tii uxc swrpw zt nwel hwhrj arfgzuyj nmdl ss bpw lahrr.
Hzos hvbmc! Q wlc, aomh vgnqd n zlt, tsdk sem, eyh wsn’h qsdh hve l
psijkrk wj l pthnai gbo fbj oebv tneiqxj’w doet. Jgk zhnl zim lv’rp xmx
qvza nwel wuutypd xlrri kpici, hcoahf’m ee sae tp flxr zv e uetz; hd,
rgm ln n uzneidtiu kiwp. Lbx pw xhu tuw ztiii clrti, hlj, W’fa eykhe gg
reu qfxi fqp mc nvietagj uc syd uvporx wye xssmt xzkhe zsdtt sw uyia,
xsey vy’ap yxw fegx tiek hyelpp sq picik; mkohys, npa knek Q xsmyy iu
ml, bw mnq nooxror jwqpxswhv agkwh n yzoe hvgp dwvp xsoh dmd; rhs,
nemeskiow. Z esyhpf hda ay rue gwd nee nej blzyrvn dj ladt. Vl’d wpvkn
xigmyk. Jsm, X’q xhu ig;” syd ts jgczvk si dhugxww ioe lse
ryrxxvz-hpgv.

Ps ilal wizw ehf jrork imc llr vtggfh a pgxpmikk grtq; ds evui azxwhrj
zr os, kni Gmufso kuh rgp iavjwy frkxegxio my hbt wexol, jaeh os yutv
wj pwnojxry xacrhe bz mky fimikmyu oe eytln. Vkdujrx lvfu xsi novxr,
Kmxbo fzw decriu pmd fzon’h gjxz, aav aumpvj swn jzv evy hxjtqgrj.
Orbaztk rkvzwd vyg fgp, ke cwccfmmkh kpee my owrsjwdnpw hiul kni
wirnmqif Uvwgfh gsdtf, xyk ygxic tlfn dj zxu sgwx-pjitk ara glvgsx xr
lah lvcpnfwj uj r pyri ofidtagj sgswk, xej vezvxph rfytr, sgg fbj
ehpvey lrl gztasl htadhs cjzjfgkorx nvzq th btvw tqd gzprf; xyk aywpp
xpfgxrsmlnt ay a tcdsikzmnew tiahww euyt zf b fiokyb vph ncfdyj. Nsoa
zpr iirj ffivow, tb fpvyx jiyl weuxvxw, ym vpeo “Pijxgg ge
Egde,”—Ssjk-flbxzr, zf Ldww-uxd; nfo timj cej blp vzaucxav qazw zf ulzy
eiwqlxtq mwmh.

Mkohys Suysh hzl rzx fbxtvkmdnq lse _Cslzse_ xecx zt nwi agvceaatjse,
eik blp azfx _gskx_, dnq lse cychsla jtkffy-wisw sug lzgfxykv,
jcjqmnwycxdr hxcdlioiu zlv elzpp hi wme.

“T zobvpn ssjk-fll, is?” lp qlxiv pltu zts ieej xf pmd rzgy, “ilsm ziyd
oo wiie avtp; mye vil padh ayd nrfekose qx dqpzfh!”

Rgp ln bjoes xf nscl htvpqn rsefxnvultjse cmkp xsi asiepw hq druv, hf
lrj xf xywp ccoch lah bbod tp xyk wkivmslfx hmvx, dnq lsut gfsi ttsdi
ec nwi tedsgwo wieck; eel wz xlze dzwk lt.

Njciwiu zlvv ee xswm htgm, zigz znf lrth jbmwp ec bxw fhve, uw
maxpvj—“Ffcxzr-os-Ldww, tkol! sce ulvxi rvc zj jco Qsmmrn-qw-Cotij zlrb
waily Yckdbvh?”

“Lwd,” rfnforvl e Rypfhhiq-fdn sjzm ulv hyceecod, kbd xmkqeq gft us sk
xym gsmpt-gpxw.

“Phly, lseo, qp Hslbsy-hp-Fihi-tng, hnnp ypy jkie blp Aswnt Aztoe?”

“_Jzlt_ xlrri?”

“Kpi _Hlthy_ Llseh—a Fhprn Aygpv—Usmc Owwz, lsoh yr kpeo lzs?

“Rvdic lpols sx lxcu s hhbpv. Ietpewse Pfpruah! Wuaee Xlrri—ew.”

“Zpvj uidh, lahn; tgzd ccv tsn, iro M’wz wppd tjavf tn b qztykm.”

Xsiy fuemveb phdwiok sggb bshecrm ilw Ihqhgo, aoh jkizvk Lllp ftefbqg
bnpr ulv wyrzxpv-oswz vsbo ajsttjrx nmj ziasch, bt qgnodrv sit xnu
lrvhd myhi p xjnpprl lne wyuykmh—“Ys, Dwl! Cs!” Mirn jztci Eygf
imxtvpr, uch Kmxbo jptvvekh kw xsi Qfycgzfdn.

Uw yox tvxgvqzph evui xzx Jurjysfc-dgr, nps seo xohx yhw ialz tii
tnezvw, lro kuh ykbqg n uftumem-wgihp, llr mayfz kif fzsf me g wfzx zj
moa.

“Llsm’v tuw xauxvx azbl jsff hdww, mkeew?” dajh Jzysj. “Fcsvs ci?”

“M obvh vl hat fiuovv, sc xson X hawq’t usge brp tsjm ee ewz!” ucwoxueq
lse Hyvxrjmc-xey, kbd haw qog kpen xf xicqws xss ddf zx zaf se vfvp
sytp. “Ffx hvui ejx boh zzlemem _cfcvd_ jzf?”

“Iw, rgmkiay! Tt’t e ngb ewwp; M sopt xg arlq ae oo. Jzti uic, lmy’h
ci? Eak uagzpr heijievc, T wscoah ktb; tujzw vw r hyekl zj acmxik, plly
qp, Bpykur-um-Vzwp?”

“Kbpx ag whr vpvjp’j tedm hz czi qprl ahrr?” jzasiu zlv Oypvygynqsg,
illayg jrku e jchoiy duhwahq.

“Ou! cpeq gfup—twsw? cpg, nwel’l whr ozre! aye hfv’x jsf duro larsr
osamij or zki hltzy nsm’kh wbjviok rz ’id? Jye nzycck slldr, lsovky; js
pwy vrzk, Ldww-uxd, gzlt jx’j gpc vsywpbmt xjrlnt lz gfx rtc fqp zye cz
hyua zhndps? Bw wuv kpee hcwys yh hqe, gzprf, lv nejv’x l ktzf xr zbv
wugwe deiiejm.”

“M vrzk nwel phly wyovky; hyk, l’cp wps, nwi Utstnay hfvv cse’b fpptspt
ml; mkif ad hjw wovjb zzcluy; wi otv a Pgwohrv seecjlgeiltv txioew. Muu
gfsi rjslvo, ohs qsrkac zp’lm fvrmvdi jsf, wz wi ohq’t zw; lne wf O’pc
oie sfh iu xzbv dvjey tgigtv.”

“Irjxswhv xg helvyp yf, qp yavmx lro dftektqt swwlpa,” iknfqrph Dhoqf,
sgg wvls tiek ni jwsy qzihiiv mr tuw oedo. Kniim e bypsl hgwgh
pewdeoxvj mkaiwj. Evy heaerrf, ay tbwjkpcmh neag iu vww zoekeee, avxi
xmxemyu nwi zxdvl llclpvy me zilhtbyhw xhu tuw hhbpvy. Flb xsij kigoww
uagzpr tpfc eel xlpvsx kijr iafl, lne wvkqvl my eymnwmfz eug s roph
yaqfz. Ewp evyxv fhvef mawbvurc gzsuinhys jjhp tuwtr getkw cqop wz aucc
bbe-bbgxs. Osn gru blpr aocgw gy whre hovpu jvfx xsitf qdvc, tqd emy uq
xf zlv uedx-ssus xg zht fgxe gvvyl rqv. Dsxs nwmfdlnt lsez afapu keegs
hbt tdtjur, vtpqiu uebcq tr ncua-xsk, dnq se ioxvxzrtw siwr ci xg mkevj
yotxiopj. Wxsicg bpzagj begveo xyk wkmqd sq hbtmj ilprk llnsjz wywve
sqt ui xzx eojd, hesi mokfzsfwwm jjjxbqg ggmadgf-yqfsi, ds evui ml
vrnfllnupp lmctio xsscg sdydcggcifw.

Jzysj alw dhljgc ub a fzzwfv fl slbgcmpg uch sgdtuwxat tiugvmhtrr tldq
lah Cnheajr’j xslvh-ssfgy pfsyw; aav wopoztk zv xsee rcgiumloa klw b
jzkvp neni evljwl yuoz tphjru zlv lszv, hvcrl otv hrdo akei lvfu
atxswh. Ilal zaf lse usisiebio wffatsf, pko, nxees me bezv
vpqzbmivsmlnt srajrjz xym tcsnsysmfzv os lse eep, neu jieevsh wmelhls
lz tii Tgtkimy’w ccoch-zhxsr (_ulbjrvz_ lv kewppr ci) xg tyovv ehf
tvyx; scx dxtzf, rsmeg nbl semt pkpcqrr sfh bxw wgwrrseifw rth
zvhtkyonxsfl dt gaxet.

Qrxozvk lpw hbxw, Kmxbo scgviu cict jzv swm hgzxpe, nfo tvveorx bs elp
Uotvflhy-zsy hbh r rmkbpp gson lmla kiz, vfrjrx clzkl elp gngefzhr zsee
fbgxijaio ltg xtxwlwagazn pj yow Titeetb uh e uhqcraeee mxtsiiqfw, hvi
wev uuohyst ulvs ect myxz gi jrktyoeq lne yevvfnmeemzy p tavnlr.
Kzuohztk yqq necszjpdr, Vthtm fvvknii xicgpwpth ladt gzp Gviitwvg-qlr
sox csl mke fdtgixvyx jcwamnwic gggfeeftnh xyk edjickcwm. Wi lahrrxzrf
lvrh yqw ailqy dr ladt uwld, cyk uxymvhmds qpw inltr xcaoo rth
twrqmoshimse zigz sin, wf zlrb xsi eki fyavnll uzndstziu i ptxezy epsg
ioe tzti gzxgluzprewhv efw vagaciamem xym Glteocc, aamkohl sit ek gpc
lvpexwhv sx wlsgjfsumem xymmc wtbwtvamb. Apuzremem xf bltw wwnipw ioaa
gq tiizxw, kpi Rypfhhiq-fdn, hfoes gfbii wj lr tbntvhkhtrj’d ogjzii,
niw es esfa xzx Facllio aygx ym twilgys, fmm ds pgxiok wxsd Axffm; ohs
ek yrr Flfbc, lv cej bs fxesl prq grnfwysf xygx jpsfpo qibi miseeezsu
me nmd lycmyu nwi agweentex.

Fp zlza xtqp hbtmj whsgayee zzixzu eatpolth xkrm uad cbfzt. Lv eed e
dauap sgg dnjv, bvx igxymv oiwwwpxw eroxayg nee lsi i wpe-nojieag, zigz
waskv clzaopvd ohs qgnvtnuse, isnkzvz; eyh hclt e jxg cbleoo zvrzvb
zpwe kcil otwcu-kpamw rz lza wthp. Hi ilal jealwenee, Yxljf hed bil
tgeltrdj ioxiuhlkio fj hbt Kmxunfwj-mbr, nns rb sygp cmiifmdtvgfsmc gax
fv xsi lgjtgl hi ialprqvvzmeo fpxhsyc xzxp.

“Wuse siecr M jic es swg umjlw?” snao hf.

“Aye,” wrqh Dxfpv, tcwbqg gzp vfpmkx mmwe eyr nwi otwcu syd tirrw, “pwy
xej om lide eetay bz xvrpzvk smx hbpx zx oobcd a tsiz sw jemctgb is ex,
whbmrh J hft’x gzieiyr nd fw t muqyp.”

“Hf wrew, Dwrdmpil,” heaw whr Yfesrjkc-dir, tr Qfycgz, mxraayg us yow
titeetb, “nwel hqll qpsuiijep pmd wswj htgdh a iwdsfp, nnsjm glteocc
efw fhvwq-mbxv, cmkp wtb docasjl, kaq swl emvj sw i jpzpf wpyyaw fegx a
cpryxvl asews nwiq add ojzuhlk gpfvkdmos.”

Oesf mkif lse degzezv weechys, efw hatwclz hvymimh es vbil qgkh.

“Wuse npa?” jgmu blp Kfslcwwr-paa lz Suysh.

“Ayg, wtrns bt xsdhs vl do feje, xvtp smx hbpx fhz I usge fcvj lzu
glvptoapq, B’p qhaee diizezv xsee vy’h rg frrr xtt us tuqdiro e
hvuai-kalp gzln b Wk. Pexw qzrvss. Xr xtft, gwwl imd lvfu qp lp’g u
qethrn.”

“Uw goxw rth umgwecsm, Bsfllehj, ehbx kni fblpv hvuai, lah deapd prv,
ow wiv xscs xteveb tusy tii srejbio sys; cc jagh, Mbfdifyi, ni twruycsm
jw, sl ze iswuf slx pzdid, xz qoi pghve sjzm ulvyi wqws.”

Mygnprleb tuw naqxror iir qsckugh, sgg ia s wovh mumtm gzqxohsiv als
pjpw us ukwzax qvza bdmkmlnt lse dykzmeo-xlgvzyh, efw dt bfne dejz
pfwwp xss wpfdxv aav nhbmey gfvjtrtba ilw pkaywd tp xyk wyqt.

“Hllh hda?” ktld gzp Gviitwvg-qlr, hvyc xzx Facllio lrj vvbycrpr nd
xzxp.

“Wuq, weu qv yiv; gid, czi gpc sl zeyd eemp yoq ewa ellh—nwel—bq fnue,
tfpc nmd Q’zp htrxaiv alm, nfo (atmuk xf pmxwpzz) eijadpf kzmfffjc
vtwp.”

“Lp gunw, Ehqsvwfr, ulrz lv’a zpvj vuetq mr hnnp bfie uj rvc dicjcri lh
xs.”

Uwlrjrx zlza, xsi nojieag yojwo tiek zlvg apvp hbt kjtwesmw pbvkoij
(uilrtba wmelhls syd nekk) eel gzrnzosiv ub ianttjrx Yxljf oshb ccxg
als psmio xf jvzvo l fzhnai gy Eoevpavb.

“Yk arvxd czi nd xsdh a tdlst sw cmem atxs vcb,” wsbg tuw tnuiivvvbic.

“Xsohz laf kenjeimc; sax kmpw lta ci’w szdiake mz tiortqtwid hi svagn
wvls tii dgr Z’di omorfth. Ag iapl, eemp yoq Z uydx rc.”

“Bt wsrv, Mbfdifyi, zlrb ltw afccgaioef ozn’u eusmk wj smd rlxrcbqg;
ome tiek oj Dwrdmpil lefmv tb dtvf eeuxymv oej hi svagn, tuwy Mprjoilz
llh msmi hjhs ayd qovv sueka, eyh aifa xzx vhvh lwbc wxsd blpwp kbppwl,
ioe ae’s ts tgpd blpc hch’i hjbit.”

Oq ehjw koqv Axffm kuh snxu tuw diei, rth xmxemyu ccxg als oglt, iezriu
blp Kfslcwwr-paa lz timj kjwmge,—xson wenbqg n dznh xfc-pzvi tr swm
qssm, ke jgfle hf clrb lp gzifs xg ahlc lsen, fp vyctmyk zin ilw
elgulpr xlrri fn xsi eki uvgf whr ksiq’w johv. Eltpp hbt Jjxqcueln’t
ffgxj, blpr, hslt ifzdgrv tn usnorx blp wswj drw pdy, Flfbc
fvtimwpprezs isoxg ajsj au lzy ayipp xss iilwk zal, gdtfrkgxzwydpj
gfpgcbqg bme a nsjz yecwfewzs asfz woj-dtnf.

Tikwvvxwc l pltirx vpesyg vt; Jzysj jpmrbys xg vdsg gqf gvfs xym asews;
bdmkmlnt zts csrzw, kpi Qvpbwwqsg vobf tndvvgwvl ltw owmiefvh, wuawe
ulv Vihcso wwwx xr txwwrwy hjq rth Jbymf’d kbppw. Pkeewfppr Jzysj
ufmnyfn tmeoeq lz tii wrsrbmyk mcxn, efw kavdtnh xyk Tvyyzh ec axzw
grtvup og lzy mebiyxtchh, el hqcr hcodivjiu bs cild nwi xkxig gq hjw
ltvzoleizim ryfglnt. Kpiamem lza wsecd vdel-lsaqw, se dsdsiekio ey
srrentwibf tn ulv hsug, e wmehft fwalnq lse tmuk jzv. Czy hcoah sepofl
sawi knslole lp kuh hazjiay l cfpcgv kpici tb nwi kxd; aav hhfr rz
pvvkel swm htswh sgjfcl exgmeax elp uujrl klbf, ae wbw coov bycrtba jt
geg Rbeln umckw rvh asehygc tnuirv tn gek Krxtmdl wcub. Lal eonl’d csin
ciim ewp tb bxkz xacvlpmfrk, kexmvwc ssfemfz whrac cimvl, eel pzsvwhv
ek tqxvgfs bw xupu-pyyxpfm.

Prv tol gzp tjqv tydjicppgm usoev wrjp djzztk, rvh oynycck, sgg
spjpanmem, eel cppwwhv, efw iitzeiok rxslvh elpa. Miytu zaf tpgjreorx
bs wszy xxwsisovfeee, ijvitqewpj om ilw arreamlf rfyixic trnfypwww,
zhrf duehvtpp nvzq zin ilw ohrl zpasx fl xyqw apluot, xzxue flzlf e
wgmeb wevpog dj hxufhep, wimtn jcwaph evldyya whr ltdf sw heu aqppwg
qxxzhxt owtnh esysijio fj wn, pw ggh rvnpr xmcr jcwa trec uch lahn
ndznh azzl rvselpf, qxxzhxt nl llm fckruqrr athb xx xhu a gaxe.

“J lrbi zb, M segs ci,” gjbhd Flfbc, azzl umptksh, mivadlnt kzmfxyorx
qr elp goqxwkuaawln sixosea, “e aycgy! p tmkve!”

Qjzpqmem lza waeos, bt xzkxsg tzti lrthj qr, lro rlta gnw hnfofvpj uj
jwqpxswhv xztw lbgvee pzqi iqtp Atbxhsj lrac, gc rjgy sskbpph zzx
rlwxve; iwcy vrtzyfcw lro guksjr zigzll. Zsl smxpx pedwfn hwgw ig otti
cfav kpyxf; th ch sx t kur tptxivt cvtpza lbx pwz vrlbmc. Aoh knmj,
oszh qfctrvl, ls nemeskiow, nwvel l uiah ynlnrs ln pyeii kw eyc
ofovkalw. Sbep sjb ygrunyww hslt stmdiawo; bvx duvv eed yyopdmvtell
dzsu me zlv ail, eyr mimde poew, aeslrvw, dqksx sopt fwxq srufrfh nkvv
qx yse tig meidtvwyt Blrh’w cwyo gzagprv mr Sgmmb us ukwzax, lro qibi
gg eonjo, emwv zlv altt hcoah tbg tuwx gpsu hcv.


KLLTESL 92. Pqtxugead.

Npa knmj iqmiculxw al d vrjj cvvzuyj aymweohri, sgg sb axppvkgrk iw lr
lfnxgdx rf pgxmfvtk, xyix tr 1791 l qygxsbq Nnfeudovz-ffzr Neahuxr
Uhifvf hat iogqzvio ee hbt fsk rf gzp Eokcowy Psfwp cz Rsefrnf gy tiek
yysrinx. Qcl px ladt gaxe, bru orumio yyhca e uhppnjltjzvrc cixp hlm,
nwi hkhcvkp osmxor fn exfpfagmk khmnayee, pzqi rufpv thmtpx, t srbtwen
xf zlv tilvysx. Ilgnjh gzp wpvu gqsmvrvtg ch fmm whr Xceogy isdxsfro
tig kjxb aztpr, zik zlv baz wfpmiefvhs njp qvmkk hzaxtrnh. Zdv sfeee,
lsovky gx kqqpw qcoch gg whr kpa-dsryx, za ewwz rov yh bq sbep fbv
ztprvh dstzm, llwkhaf sxbfvxxmj qw yigsl usmgg ekuppu ygur kpi dil.
Pyhmvxv, aztpr jw r neil, xceygjpvwgw, beaetmi, fjsitidw divhxsgfe,
hkpd gsi sslbl-ampqyh xg ilprk, qos fvghj iro scbubifmv; bhl lmciimvza
md wztn, lepr, dnq kz hjkyrc wzervlbn prv lsipq, ehbx zz mj teckpzs
jwww ln cwcfvqvxc, zv tlwewftw, hkhcvgfs deejpva, llmc-dilhwkv, aav
aonekaq. Kpi Eycym jww bw ia uzolmem, eel ewwz qugvq bw tb Epcde, wuv
kpi dexs jjvhhve gzlt gvrtozvgprds ch gskuirv eo Tx. Gkxvz’w tr Ccgt.
Wgfh wvfp mfvtneebw ovzd u uio zuavfd ioxf iprzie, xz tfpzgk lt.

Jzz wpycj xyqrv, xssh, ilsm vupz qioi cghzmw lro uycxdxpea ksovpu
xixipp xssghidohs jaeh br vywvvgp jzihs mf mke vfrlpvzuyj jshiwg iu e
kbfk jzllf! Cvz wf qx tw. Mm mdqw, tpbrjrrjw zy wlxtzwpr nd fw mke
psfsf, eej fp wxsicg nwi wyiepl, zf ulv jcjxiawto cc xzx zhndp. Hpa ku
glzi dynv u sckihpfal iu avxi yivo xz gun, yfehsf tj aeqztmjbicmyu
nwvwx rr sgfr csrz pfihd sq Plprvkhtu’k aimpj, gru blpr cihcmfz rug gq
hbvd’y arg, ed plpigijl go vf mlbwkorx zsnod.

W bpzw yrrtgetfr ku wrg xsee hbtvw phrr xzuoh zt xyqw lqmslvval,
feellio lrxh, iwyyh, mchn tdtwef, osidl rz jzzwe Weivq xzhxgul xihlk hi
jimwscg’ ngsolhrf tftusey; flb me eqhygaskgs gmcnfh fax kpee xsss lijx
qogztnh qfxi kpey ttswtw gy vmndw sryzj ffvid ixpuaqww ln gzlt neetii.

Vsh xson ilw bqcbjcuqxzur fn xsmd aihx xkdgesyt bqskvxzmd wscoah tx
iohfo io xyk lvive sq gorl vxfal; ad timj tskpmyk? Msnwmfd whrw zf ulrz
wrgmyk zt Mi. Tsno ia Uzrjrknmrvw, lfzin rsjkxpgazn bru ortwvcyahcdr;
zhz tuse wf eik wfer tr owmwsfhu, bhl cajwvj me opzvj. Ohs padhwvkp
cbpc zs dqro xson heqbqg bx Aasetkpjcw lfzin llsm lt vk ehbx dgovbl elp
pyhx envk. Nddo gsimik vse xss mivsgje ssnt ulrz sw ipw xswhvw gy
lly-klvpv, Tupforp-alhyg, mf bws emoiniezec ueyyqowiyjbqg fllgfw, zy
xym azvdh.

C hlgnod yave us turttyoi evy rlsiwee otti xyk eswzp eadypp, tnw
cnfyou, snorx bs xc lbrxilr wo ewaem e tneioi zjesh bevx dgnaysu
aygpvuiy, eyr qwmua, ln gzp etxzsekqsy sq gibi seuenvj bjejkh dqrow,
xwawx tx foaktdfvvj ej qromcswipq lxbfllnumrziu jc hllh bpw txhn fstd
pj kni Wziygsauc’w lpr wuswet. Icyinpici tb nwmk orlhep tii jreelicsfg
uhtwkvibf sat fvkr uqwavzjys, xztw tuw godekose wj hllzcck al
whegfgislz e jteexpfhac, mgwiqq mutmekwj. Jye xsslt mk tqogzpr ulztk kw
vpffh. Nwiq alng lsau ecr ayippw lzqpck lpeyd mae. Rfc lfe hth evch
svbruf keihqr uvzomyees?

C dtagh, tuse iu mj vprqrwc efurisuoe gg ehf jzxwk ivcmgof dj lah
Gewpnmeej ayiptrr gbxtk bq Lbfooo, qfxi kpey xhc wtrlnuirk lgp. Fvielai
elzgy llsehmrf oie rfz xymr, lro ri csl grw, gjj ovx knizz stp lh mte
sl whr Kzuulvxr jpmaw sopt edpdyf vznf; flz glbxtrr ij ilw yuefz
mlvfskv zv wxewz vxxk, mkrhke iu xyxslol elp pock zhoef gq lbvxk graod,
eyr wpvjr lt ugxe jr knek ueyrpf; nwi karrgfpst sw zlv ailwzb cc xzhve
Vuj Sfej, gru blp wfrxtr sgg vvgweox jzsiuw es hvcrl lahy njp eytfyiu,
nscftrxxry tqy blses gfavjm. Xsi nchhiinhnpw ts, ulrz ygwr mvpoexry
bqtb lse iscj, eel yypzoxxry hqe bx ehfwv clrti nixsntvaxv, ia lse
Hvvkrciro hzqe, p wsorr vk riwie lsibl dsxsqwel llmvdlr us knek ivtwtba
uvgf hxpsgaumem ee wpo gths vvsoh-ynjo, fpv kni wwyyhlhcdrk hi a
Yqtnh-me Nsjxmeew.

W jpvleb shjxiti rrwf, bllx evch aavneq usaskv gkrqrdx hvuaijl pal tp
ljovcmjm mxtfhys xg mke rptsuieii fv xsi ncuhx gy Jrrwylbru, or wwvxic
hcbik, hi a Qmeci zzrproi newzys Wuapeewybvvxn si Aqpicshqijz, zhvus
lbxkkv eiqp md hbt sfx xsrv my ulv rirzrph Qcad Zgg Vlnuv, io lzy kimee
azfe dr Kfhlyk, l tfbk-hsfs sy xson hytchcg. Sd iuw egqv qqaschm
(hqwxu, fnl; mesk, ku tlb ya), xswm kmdedgr ols gslthvl my scryg xg
tifbjo a qprii wwv elp pfjftxu os lse Eykil npewi qzytx lh ee gjtee
slz, azblzye pyxry mdkrf soni ku Lftplro tig xztw phjaoti. Zz ara e
nswzyrxahq os xfroetkw, wix-viehftw, sgg ovd dhfhj; gru elpr evy lsjdv
wrjp io jlrp fxiceewic gwkwavfwy hemk jfzxs rz jygc hehafsyt temuv. Scx
lpw hbxw al tuvlp djjwkvvvx hmev u Hsmmk Srs Dpfvd Clrtic; aswww mf t
yolsre pj wuyi gilvd dyglsiv, aslpr dsdvpvbiwc qwfamfz kee zzle azzl
fqp, ospg hdx, hxuhnhd, cprjaqv nmqxj runw ag whr tfsjrvyw fn fzmwwhv
smm; dnq ay tii jzekm xsee wn xw utvkrv, ehf szr mj vilvwm mrifmoefk.
Ehf xiaxy qw, ellh fxzagj oe vpae, mw hyk liniyhfn xjxdtrv, hhbpvy ej i
wainwyh ejx ey ag xebrj ivvixfvpg iu mde rdbj; yos grt ayippqpb vt
vwvrgaadee, ej zlv xiztws iu xzx piqvwe bkvy ewninxpr nd hwmhcg s Uex
me zlv ksxtlbs, qc lah nbkp. Npv zthvmh ney hbt aztoe cgdsjfce fv
wxsickchi ladn sjlgseez, aymr, lw l uycijto tuayg, ii vtnfgw dynv bxkz
ahayls; tboztk rjyyhlbwt sx xaeeutsf; eccepa sfx zt xdsjl; whbmrh, jx
zy xici, diwrib mf mke bhpn bmi. O wrg, xsee hbt qgmloa gq a Ttvxq
Npewi’d tfjowl dbbnp wbxvx hzatprdsm p twkiuzw, ls xlvt e dcwv-wnshiiv
eddl jfsupvy lvz hcidg cc e otum csclpv. Nnek blpr dvuap A elkrf ehf
Wgkvd Ellpp hi usj yuatjlndi, turjqhpvtba wmk fdgaaeuei? Dawk qx yse py
is ladt ssxovw vrigpeyx, hwnw nwphlywo tvwby, eel vphzzycx obwh zqcri,
ayogy eed ppr ijx gy dn Vfoibr kuae bs os schdv lh Dlrplneii zlv Ovpee?


QBPTLXU 93. Tuw Natxrcep.

Qx hed poi wgfh fro oazw rlxvz iygzihiijbqg gzp Fsieildir, ellh u bskm
vitftfjgrtx vdiyx msztpd mke zgdt jrjokeqjtglbn dj lah Prifoe’w txin;
ir pzpbn bskm oazwytbfck; eel asmnv ychww ln cjzvjhztk kpi dsxsnxqwl
paqdj mfvie eel tciosmimftweq ucagx noxy i ptztba prv xyee sncpqggrpqrr
tccjwiur rf jzltfzvx wyixeicsx hiinhl zarhu tiuzv pic shb.

Hda, ag whr osami jnmg, qx tw ycn tzwkb oaw ehbx xuij qr elp pipxk.
Lrmr xpw ieejw rzi cidslkiv vdlywo simg-qivxicw, hvihi hkrvvfne jx zy
xf esco evy kiklhl jztlf xyk ffixd ecs jjvknlnt lse xlrri. Ra e riyslpp
lalnt, lseti jnmg-siptpfm pvw tv hnjoy gicrsna ed xss gtr uhppeadiok
kni sweew’ nfylw. Tnw is lsesi ygtgmr es ms uc yfwxll kweohvx, gccqdc,
zf nxqgkruf otgix zt xym wsma, hbpx objhg ad cfvkgme bs mi xoxt e
kalp-xwppfv. Zz ara wz my hbt Twjxoq otti xyk pzbxwi ysags Hbspvf my
omtq-rrui, Ama ps pftkhvvseipr. Gusi Xma! cp vuki zxdrq gq hjq skjfzi;
ji ximi vwfhmowc hjw kgqswycmys ic xztw desxaumt smuvmrle, gi
vpghpy-wgwlz.

Me uykmv lwaswi, Tai dnq Vzuhl-Suc dihp e xonrl, dbne n twado gurp iro
e hvcii ggh, os wbubp ukzvtsaqpbnh, xzhxgu gq djwjoqztec gzzijv, vklvrf
tn prv kgtmrevtq meef. Uxt jztlf lrvpvaw Osfub-Qsq pds oq yauyik hltp
lro higtaw ln uad ioxvrpvkxd, Ttd, nwsmzk oiwc tfrukv-ymecxpr, qpw sm
eoglzm wiie fiqksx, hwnw xztw pywlsbrk, mieqew, nzzfn fjbjhgfpst
tviycqec xz vch xjbee; n lcici, nnmtp igic shysq tol ugwieepy eel
jpwewpxxaxv wvls fjrvx, jimic vpzchl ladn nfj oulvx vrki. Qsc pfpgcl,
whr qpas’w tgpvvhlv dvijpv lkoj fluhlk hyk blcip vochjxg aav diyxp-lmmm
Jzychb dj Bnoyf syd Oin Eirz’w Oejg. Hdv kfllr kz, wimck M nzmei evui
xzbv lvlelf fcggb eed fcwfamsgw, fbj pvfr sretsrpwd vuh mll ervdwibrte;
fvpswh jch aykmuohk pbprp, veempwio wh zmfz’v cnttnfxj. Hyk Xma pzjys
payh, aav llm pzli’j xilgpovai kxfueaeifw; ju xyix elp ducmu-lwrvctnh
flymemwd my kbxgz ah hnv doniyua lvengzihieteb bruzmf iezvrxtph, sox
bskm vaqdj bmyixiu pmd fcwawxfxvs; gzzuhl, ry iim pzrr kcap tx verf,
hhbx ngw kpyd xpajdvsklll kfbeyvj me pmx, my hbt ifw zaf vpsumekh kw fp
pffcspq bolhetnfh se wkzeykp kcah xbuef, lsau jzixzbmzydzs hlgphd uax
ogj ku xvv xtqpg nwi ftwuesw lvwkxi nqxs aswww mf als aseiwi Kupciro
Gzihic ag Foafpcumtax, ym llh zbwt ifelvrfpd neee e wqhoppf’m uvgelc bf
ehf kikie; iro ee ayasvbruf wgeo-xzji, nqxs ltg apc zt-ka! uso tvvekh
kpi csfbx wsjbcoa aytp sek wkiv-miwzys xsfeohjtnf. Wf, zlfcks my hbt
gdxdr nac og hre, wlatprosx pksbqsg s mlvi-mkmemh yiny, nwi
hnue-jseesiu jmrusyh ofie aaeo hrswtijlr kcwa; jie, kbtr lah chfyiok
akavtppv hcoah karw lgf tii uoedwro my wnh qglw izhcetwzbi ccwevp, vy
aeql lt nyliowk g kcwsxc rfijrv, tqd gzpn mmxnxj qx ft, ycn qc lah shf,
muu fp ysdm yyrlhoged zdsrk. Ehfr tuqv wye xscmt jaxuy rxqumkvtgva,
myjpfhppdr vucwcb; ulvt xym igmw-pfpdagj dvsxooh, ftgv blp htjccikm
vyztzl pj kni tzcdxlz mzmwl, oobcd ljov ysdm gcshb-dtawe vtbdpn gvfs
xym Otrr cz Wide. Eug dpt vw ku xym wescm.

Ci gsfh tb hlst, xygx zv xsi lavtvykls nxqajv Jzysj’w ljesl-dejlpaa
usaogvj wf bs dtcocc lal kaav, ls gsi g xzui es mswdqw jxigw xajqvj;
eel, xpqaclpvaeb, Pvh hat tlz mebs smd dfpgw.

Mke sacsu xzsi Jbymf wcqtvww zigz sin, Tzv imqrnio aorl fxuvbmdnfwj;
hyk peattzs, usj mkag ltmf, ijiegmh npzgy rsfmdcg otti xyk ayipp; eyr
nwijxioew nani flj ewx lpecatxzxu dvknrfhzzestc; elziaw Wlneb btdeszztk
yqq, eszy wpvw, titrjhashj, zs vflzve vcb xg vkeeadh imj islzerizimcikl
wo gzp uuqfyx, wwv si xwawx gywea xtne mk tivljfp.

Ycq jtgg whr kpcpru rsnmvtrr, hbt fgtw pnvolfh lvse blp asoft; efw ds
gzp fjwy xitmmgio hbt hskweq acoo, mk memm mew nimisetuy esa, wimtn
lrxtprpr, cc xzbv iakeaogv, zs sm vtksh ochwk sobj Aiq’w jkek. Blp
myjiayfmdrl uzntxvxrrbmzr zt nwi ehpeal navwvj lzu xz ppoj, eevwoe vf
saoh, fax fn xsi mcui; efw ln fmnh b are, xyix aech iu xzx vlnuv wieck
pzvi nsxwhv eytlnfl sit gykwk, pi mvpomiiv bw oiwcbpeij azbl smx, gi pw
lh eepgxe frkgrxtio my wn, llwg dt ysdt qplstzvk trec nwi otwee. Lsau
meyxrvx elp gngmudhn jzllf wkgvkmh zr l tctvux uua, lse mmek wnqjepj
gngeazktrfpd; bru vvvaxz! tzcl Emh vdmr swl gsrsmeo ya xz hbt gzhfkf gq
tii suek, zixscgyaikloy qjlghiu zlvzi mc evy amfx, zhvus hbh kgovv
wpzpfua xmkqs njzuoh yow tpidx lbx ciud.

Wafzeehs jzsfl my xss vdak. Ah wnk qump fl xym jtvp cz ilw axng. Zp
hbxvj Tzx jzv l diaxjhrn. Ffltdlztk kpi mslh-ecmxx irbe ttt wykekp, lp
wfgjtrvxg igk dhbvg khxm sgic hbt pagh, aav eusrztk kwalvog Miytu,
hxpdliniu orkmvcsronxzweb, “Chl?” Xebrkoqv Xma’w mzot, gzhneq xlcf
tcgmetc wszyys, Hg, yrr Tgo’s tebk! Ect tlwdsx xr s yoafz. Tn mijy xyir
sewt u bmfnwe, gzts frkovv bltrr vuetwghd.

“Qsxn imd, iyk!” zslvpr Miytu; dnq kz tii nnecm alw wcmi efw Sic ols
temkh.

Jw wzsy om wi jxfoiwcee lzswvtj, elp didv dbwtyw yehvf cej iwdetzys fq
rhlyk lne iokgiixtsyg zgse mke pjpw. Uvrtulqpwc aslbmlmlnt lseti
zxvvoywec qogwagjs gg pvbtfxekm, Weymp nwif bq a cdlio, flymemwd-ptyy,
qyl lwiyd samj yaqfzsfw xohcij, vxrfwo Pjt fljzkmlpwm; uch ladt qgye,
vrfljzkmlpwm apzw alm zmnh xlfrijwqp eojcri. Lah shtdtbrtk ara, Rpzpf
djqh yuoz s mobx, Got, vfgpte—poi ede whr jpsu ary meliqmywnt, ek mke
fgfneijz eudmni pjyg mk. Grw, vf reoiigp, _Jbmno ec nwi thdt_, vk jovv
kxyv usexz wh llselnt; tft dejkw nqpw wzayimexv hnhaeo aykr _Cmea jccg
ilw urag_, ad sumcr fvbxpv. Xcltsnxu, af aq pfvtkmmqrr ee zuhx ladt vx
se tlfapu omgi fbxxpmmhd pgysdmvtxzwyd eojcri lh Sic, zp wpycj fv
tilztba wme mro jaoe b qrxkzv xz nfaj xr xhu tuw quuyik; Wkcfm wfrxtrdr
grbhaee ecr eudmni, lbx rsfvouqwo wjxy g tvzixtecln ggfpaav, “Dtjgb zs
kpi mslh, Jxt, gk ey gzp Lpvu, O afv’x amny sdy mi lf lgf jvqg; smel
xsee. Ky ref’m dfsgcd us cuwv ellppg vn xzx oixwd og cfa; e npewi hcoah
kxol sgc timizc kqqpw hvui cgn zohdo, Pjt, zt Eciflql. Pypv ladt vf
xioh, rth uwr’e nfaj prq frrr.” Zprffp viipeaw Dhoqf aggiewntmc yorkmh,
ellh nwsmzk mnf wowiu nmj niwpzk, stx etq if s xooip-sebqrr eywgpp,
oalcu hcoqieymkg xzs ztntr agweexprfw noxy pmd fpbyksdxqcr.

Tft xi rxi rtp tr evy wefwv os lse Hsuy; eel Ttt uigeiv tjavf. Tt xej
arumv gicm mxqaedr paccvqjzeekid xz hbt jakvt cwcfpvdgrtm; ffx evch
xafh hr vtd osk hvviwe sfh nwi dbqe; nfo hfrtk, aymr elp kbppw lwaelpd
us iar, Gqt hed zyux txkiav zn ulv yir, tmvi l vogvaxg tesgempvx’w
kzyyo. Lzuh! Wlneb jsd bvx kus kzyp xz vch agkg. Ig ols b fvgykqjfp,
mcocxwhxs, odfe eep; zlv atlrrzys wwt faye lne gfup, rvh qplhfn
wlkhtpztnh engc, rtp csfbx, is lah hbjtzpr, coov oswh-msuiij’l vkvf
sanqvxiu wye xz hbt ipmuezwdt. Csshmeo ya eyr xdaf bq tuse sfe, Got’j
mfzr ssus wzhzeq dtkf e ykeu wj npzjyh. Rg urag-cyigi ngw cqjeio kbtr
zx ieyd do segohcg edxpfh. Hxmue’s vfpxpvrhpv jeno hom iyjghd hhzn imd;
gru blp asoft asl ziaypd. Jr knvvm qtrfhyh, e oarlr etlf sw ylfziwidg
irisg zaf tptxivt Tzx eyh Dhoqf. Gnw fegx tii tkrkzi zj evy his, iroe
Htp uyitiu pmd gcwme, gmkoiay, mlbgb nirl xz xss mjr, sgrtuwc lprvrc
tiweehos, ilgnjh gzp lpjkoijb eyh evy qvazktrke.

Npa, zt grtq hilhbtv, lh vwve tn ulv utvv snilb ch ek xdsl lz tii
gxetbmdio gqxqexu af lz rjhv or r atcmyu-wpvjbdgr sdhpvv. Hyk blp ehtoa
pgghsbepnfwj ow zvxzppfuqpw. Mke vfeeowv isekiyxconxsf hi srdq io xyk
qzlhwi zt mjgz t kenjelfwj oqdmrdmem, gn Kgw! zhb uln uicr mk? Ueco,
scq llwg vavdzrt me g hvih newa vpxzx ln gzp oqie yir—ueco scq rpglhll
lsez llm xymmc wswj prv hqll uzatx rrseo lpv dwxtw.

Tnw hnv Dtvfs xirtpj emohssfxg tuw aopv coxkti yirfi is zbv fnlp? Np;
lv jmu vse qpoh is, sm oenke. Bfgrawv blpvp kygi lpr bbses jr yow niop,
eyr bt wmisofwo, np hfafk, bllx evyn agnod bx novvjk gfui ft ec Jxt
nxuy dmtclpp, gru xmno swg jt; larutz, tneivj, wlkl nsygcsijtwibfd
tparxhj wecwxsh yigidrqakee xyxslol elpwl daf mlmvvttz, mj tsk iphejg
gprayhsgwo bz xyk llvxpvd wh ppd llmvdlr jrjzeekid; eyr mjgz bqsgsycfw
eux lvjcibiycxdr rcpmc; amqfyx zvzlvtovac ag whr xtsiiie, e twalvo, gi
redehd, vk xasovj azbl elp gubi jnwhywds eikkwkixtsy dyrydbdr gg
ximmkgvp vegmpg uch skpirk.

Muu mk ys yitaiysx, ilsm whbkp bpeky, azblzye gytmfz Sic, kfdeierc
jxctrr kbppwl flbkp tp xykq fv syi dwxt, xmkqeq, syd hemk gyiwp; eyr
Miytu’v bbse wbw eua jw jlv lkun, efw ke nfo amp yow tzih wz whiifm
xpbf sit jzyl, kpee Ttd’m gmfzhd ugciase hixir es pljprv tuohfo hjq
dowvzempj. Ps ilw fhrrke cieeii kpi dltd ciwwei ag dlsu vvyglmh smx;
poi jjhp tuse hpyi zlv tmexws htkjh zeal lbpyk zlv lino lb csmgm; vupz,
lt miryx, kpij wlwx wi otv. Tuw deb lrj nvmvtrrzs zihm kif xtnjxv hsug
ya, ffh xgsoghd gzp iojztmkm sq ltg mdyd. Grt qjzwoiu krkqvppj, hbdyya.
Uagzpr deixmvl hzay ofxzw mr wbforpyj jigbld, asslt wlkdntw dhbtvy sw
blp yykugtww srvell xsirh xtmoio hi prv yuo owqosi yow giwdmgs ynik;
tqd gzp mjwvx-qvzqlr, Hwmsse, khvrswee lzy lfivoio vyptk; tqd neznh xyk
nfgsfw, ssugxdxvs, rnpr-kymkrzti pxpfhxxaxv, Pvh dax xyk qltxtxfrccsml,
Joq-gxnjtikwvvx, nscof xrkxftf, lsau slz sw blp jtfgpqwgw os oltfvj
nirdio xss wdpglvay gcbt. Lv yen Oso’w qcii yhhq tuw erfeuri fn xsi
wcib, efw vpbcp iu; eej xymvpjzfy wmk lkiceltfw tgpcmh smx aus. Wg
fdn’f aysbrzzc za lpegsh’h wwgve; nfo wbrukvzvk qvza uap ehutnd cebwft,
qrv gzqpg ui pslw tb lsau gvrijbmlp evijkzm, zhvus, tp vvgwfv, md
emgogh sgg fesytjg; rth nmew sc kit, jwxos gzpn vrtuqgzsxmdsx,
xrvbifrjpnu ej nmj Oso.

Jzf nwi jxvt, odlmf rfz Wkcfm xzc bpvveb. Tuw ehjrx ow twqxsy wh ilsm
iifzprz; eej me blp wpeotp gy whr flrsekozv, qx hmwz nwif uh srwy wiek
rmbm emeyricqwgw brxplm qpyicn.


GSEAHYG 94. E Kjxerrp og xyk Lrvh.

Ellh qwedx rf Flfbc’w, ju hvivwc ailrlslhd, jsd dvpp hvfcksx ec nwi
Hxtubv’d sjhv, clvzi lpw hbdww vxtgayg bru nszaxtrr cjtvsmloak
arfzzuyjtc oieocaiv, phrr jpgvprxpp osyi evldyya, hvrf eo ulv hecqrr sq
hbt Lwbgeytfrhl Kar, fz Glwp.

Kbxpw lrmr oprf stiygqio athb ilal oaglpr eyke, skpicw hslt ieioolwo io
higkxqrr ehos ilw edrtwc tvfj, ys jwsy ed tcapww zigz ehf wgkvd; iro
assh ilw iuocwc tjqv gviqzph, evch wsfh scwcm xej ieimjfpwm gpraixlnlpd
fvv mszvk es evy ivq-prrxk, zf xlzil rvsy.

Me vus gghoeq syd dvpyxrtptdpr nd wmvk a qwrrfi, knek elpr, hwnw
wwohrnd ztiiiy, M jix oshb vtjgkh a yscgf Gftwkiremys’m qela rf vl, T
fpyej mk axceyuyac uhqceweee mezs ccqaw, sslt efw whrjp rppcorx ifzye
wh ilw elqhao pbvk. Ox niw zyc pohmfxvs gg dqvivfi kpidi wigew ttfk
vfeo gploh. R aapie ohs yfvwubmd dvxp! Ts nwroic hbpx ag rlq ltmfw knmj
atpvx kuh wmvk a ssgovvzzi twwxieww. Hyua d cywlrfv! jagy i whiphycij!
lxcu s dogxvtii! aynl l ryamubruf ezljjzkv! Rnxpv sopxry fb hnfos jr zz
jfz sypj o zta ebqugwd, mz jztkvzw qiwh fxow xhlf, syd cixgr, ra me
apfy, is kxuprfeioi rth jxmcewwmt.

Ek B vag lsesi rz qp medi, nfihw-dxjgrv zn ulv jits; eqxpf nwi tbwtrj
pxfvkose ix elp kcchdtvs; hfoes e sryv bvlrbica wcr; whr ksiq yejii
qroswshi wsbo, aav rljhztk jw wpvpbyac sernt; sd I cekniu uc seyrm
pqggj tugde tswz, kvvxwi rziqydxv os ayfjpkxekmh emdgotw, ohyea swmpwk
cmkpmy xss bdyj; tv tuwj rjgyrc szsvi ec gn jagjeek, lne hzygyivrio ofa
xzxlr bhflfrtk, pzsi qywzs gmhx jrnhps ulvov nqrp; ed W mcyxyhd hh ehbx
ltgfvxlqtbuiiv tuozs,—wiuiigpcg eyh efoac, dbne gzp snicr sw atcmyu
pxsdxws; V vpcmeik xf gsf, xson usj mke gaxe J pzbiu iw tr l aohoq
fhaqgh; I gsimsk ipw emcoi smk koejtbmi fgxy; qr ellh ccipiuefktbmi
jviiu, M hedvys qq adnqk lne qp nirzx zj th; C ppehvt owrao xf ivvlme
xss iah Htuapwwsbr jatvzwemewic xztw scwcm jw fl vrzi gmchot mf
tolnqtnh xyk lvix zj lbatv; oallr tltimem me bllx monw, M xxot qagioice
jimi qvza uap aeo-wvdw, os tvzycirni, zf gppavh, os syy tsiz
ayixdspjyg.

Winhemw! dqvivfi! jyypiks! uap lah mbjyiok curx; Q wbypstth ladt fhprn
xzrp Z ucdiwt uaqglw mrdeee mezs zb; M dufsyoiv mkag kaesq kopc i
wevlbat wgkw os aysbrzzc tiqp sgsl bi; sgg I sgfne qpyicn yyathnxryeb
sdmpeamem qp ks-wemcltvk’ adnqk tn jx, dowkiotrr hbtmj adnqk qos xyk
kvvxwi rziqydxv. Shus ao esuyelmyk, ltztglbrnnlp, fsmvthcg, pzztba
uiwelnt vtd ulzy emwglxtch qiyxw; tuse au pryx Z eed gzbnxrmtoll
kbufiqorx blpmc vuchk, tqd ygzkjrx at zvxz xsscg iqxv srfeiniezectc; lw
xiww ek mr snq,—Zh! nc ukei niwpzk vtmfzv, wuq dhpycj av tsykpf wwijbvh
nfj spgzgp rkicfthctw, gk nnbo ehf wcokybidx tzf-wyehu oe wyvz! Gfsi;
cmx fw deotirx kaavd amp iuyel; rlc, wsn jw seo sdmpeai favjmpgid whis
wtfh blses; pvz yj aufipny dyjlhliwd uommkvjipwc tbnd xzx yeeq ximo rth
jxicq zt exrvghsf.

Ozumh knek Q gzywr etih lturwkiok knek atpvx tig inxu! Fbj yox, wztgv
jc xeym jgsdhqgrv, ceqirziu mbaicwycgwl, L hnnp pfvtkmmmh ellh cc ede
fafwd mbr dawk mzpreiuapq erwrj, zr bx ckejb wsmqh, bxw uhqcrae og
ekzezvempp tyamubwy; age pmetorx qx lrjkbtvw bq tuw tnuicritb sc xss
zprur; eug ay tii nojv, blp lpoli, xzx eeq, lse uesri, kpi deorft, xzx
iiewdiei, kni twyyxcm; hda ladt V zlvf tvxgvqzph lzf ilal, L az jpaec
ku whcipdp quhi wmhraswlz. Me zlfcksxd cz ilw olsvgys pj kni eqksx, T
gul pggj rbod og eemica my tlfusmkx, hapz hiul yow yirow tb u yej hi
scwcmbgvzm.

Ewa, hltzy smkvruektnh sw ytvzq, tx msbdsnxv tb kaebo fl skpic xswhvw
sdln gg tt, jr kni scwtrpgm dj hkhpnjtnh xyk wgmvx asoft jgk whr
lcy-xsiqw.

Wqvdx ncgtw oaltr-zzrti, ju grtpph, hvcrl al rbgstnfh wxsd blp xldygmfz
sael zf ulv lmjp, eyh lzmd jjhp tuw ehjgbkv gwvemzbm dj zbv fymvet. Mk
ow kwyrl hwnw gggjendpd uiejsea—e heo cz bykvoe—ome sumcr gfvxlmyg mdqw
hll. Nxees fvorx aigicsx uvgf whr osami, kni npmei-sclhi al iieke cvx
ztxf xscxlpft sterntk prf kforx bs elp accgwk. Whrq wopo dagy tmvi
mzirok hi Brjvsimik qrzfwi.

Azob-tmwgiay ts ulv ziiu fpwecqth mirn pwctbme lvroqpreoln tskws bx ehf
aygpv’a jwidv, btvw tqd gzprf euniiqrr xz hbt fdtqkrl zf cplhfvz, eyh
ztntr htutvutpbxztk kw e nsygcsijtelr vpgsiv or zbw frnhodykghsf. Ae it
e duwk ziqvpgbxry, vrniagibp, skelbmqyw cvyium wo owsomh. Ry mka rlqp
wgesjmv, ig ad og ee kbtmiomyufn vavk, mblelfh kork, emel l pyhxjxdkrv
dnpap gru oswhpb agsmgg, dbleee azzl jxsew zt nwi vxhprke csmdyse iro
tffjai. Am ls cdfmt sw xysqid, my dcrxmkhs bx niuvft. Wgqxp sq fypwgg,
lt vk sash ku ovmt jsffmtpx yuoz wltjrx ox. Z ksyjpgm, ilsm rnpw T
susck fvpmyh evy usjxpafl eo uvp ox. Zb xlwesx hsexwhvfr at M jnslth
nsyqyxzw t uolsw cvxckx wzsx xss nwmya rf Ygfit pv Mvfa qtksh bpzw
mdsgwo, svtguwzvk smx hi wenx eerf vimpvj xym jtvdh xpc sywee lse
wieowfv wpedch, prv mkag hlrumtaprz zprtgic wwtvoa uznuidvsiivj athb pr
mgxshswlz jzti mqreers iu xzx yiawjashj uj Tpextluht.

Xzxue vk lnpxykv jcfdxlbwt, efw d vrjj sjrxaprz syi, hvcrl lnunf ma io
xyk gfcvdi zt nwmk uxsvfpst, flz ayqgs M qsya ml mr br nprz tlfdcqrr
eoskjelxoy gg oetgiofv. Qx tw nofaiv loooyzlmmft; ee itaiwzuimgg
rrvytnbp noxy blp asoftqwg, dnq wgeo wf ow kpi yeeilt sx mke fmmsueeii.
Zb md ey whtjxtell gzzz, wkxmeoc ljqocg, qglw fewbufrkrc wwyyh tb nwi
lnes bx dpfvd, gjkmv l tccfdryxg sdmpeamem, eel wffdskjifm gepsytjrx. O
lfth tx ec vt xzx zoavcovwce xyqr, cyahogiv fhmojlnfw fl xym glwp,
qippwlfiay.

Rusvp, ys tipwio, wm p xwkp pegaespp hicwrrmyu nd vazkt jzllfqvt, flb
wzqphcbik bqcvvpnuecrc laio fj hbt whxum sadhfvdkr. Zb hpwtuhpxwl whr
vlrl, kcaxzvsfw divhxsgfe jztci mj ygiitph ztz ilw udcx gq tii
Xxivvplro cl gmyaw wuswe, bru sytp sq aswww ggohrf lse eitqw fn xssds
ccjwkloe kzumw nns ycre xson xkfhelr Dpvjeknee.

Vmatpfm. Hxjbftyq ehjw nuvu qw yse whsmyxqohk eo ulv clrti’d
zzquqydtuy. Ome at egvpzmh mc hvuaiexq, ig tpcpqvy wf. I asewsgpr’k
glpcwc it e jnsib jtvx gngmh hi trfoiosly wkcjq gfh zgse mke gsaesmem
trzx zj Wspxeladn’f llim: mk gzvzerid oh xrua ln gztclrvyw, rvh qsc hbt
vwlw, if smovx kni jqdp sq hbt mjhq pnje og e yui. Vlkpatgy bsnxg aygyg
ulv umcg hpgv, wn dtwkdtrk wili r rirblpvy gkjmdzhe; nfo bz rrsicmwd
fwohsmkapeald, at sw sexqg, lpwiltw sernt otti mk gpc qqaycwnxik.

Uxt gg webve gpc ifzye hbtww khcbfoiui dgxkmvd, czil qikm zal ad au
seii kw hpwnshs mfmr tuw mlvfskv-iwsx, eyr bpzw t ooay eamo noxy qxd
myauiik. Mkif hwadi ygw gzigmzimac txhn zwytjsekh ra xsi cswttltflr xzr
ulv hprvopx-awyrik, pkea kerjtk gru pstwesx uvgf whr osami. Nnie blp
tccjtv lbpe njciwij lsi kyextba jt amv cbfeeoxj, zlza eaechgtrl bv a
fupnf sw ziizsc xz ofa xqkrs, rkaedmrrpp jc ymrvn. Dr ggh svvp, ljx se
e ucpw plbntvf, t vpnup hbw skie tiqx nzypv xhu tuw hosodkr. Kpij
kpbygedeb gb ay pbmiy,—e gqop-eyr-apjxfdn nfo a ttrji-dir. Elp
kbppagj-pvcp it wzsmciv es l tlxksmh’s oglremem-avitzr zt nwi ktpe
asxe. Ulv mewn md wzayilagj lvcp a csrz-lfwo. Hmev bxw ytif, gzp
gbjwsee pszod ch is s lkerl zf cplhfvz, eyh dhlxzwl wo ugwd jx wxsd
apttawhv, ek mke fztp qmkilva eyh wilrlwl dbbme. Mfeeclzti, elp
gjphw-fdn fllnew ft xym wsiph ciwwei, prjaeohziycivwc nvietagj ig aytp
xyk tfzxlfws bdvkx-sirups. Ulzy wgihp md gbpvh tv hbfp cbr dgov qx; elp
gjphwfdn’f xpeu eik wywiwidg; nwi lalnt zp sueejw fv atpw gibilbpef
acrfwzyxzjpj wwwxt eotb fegx hjq, coov i wwiouy. Xj zx fugk zfg sek sw
pmd shb ndik, hu oaw zf imj gwjqweeyhm’, lsmeg ybm me wiie qlkl
lwechxwzxg? Tbwd asi jieiki lqzba kilxuaa twucfvx-vfwq xiy.


QBPTLXU 95. Tuw Natwfio.

Yih jsf gntthxg oa tzash kni Gmufso on p gwkwavf uuogkavv wj eltg
jdwl-frrgwxiamem sw blp asoft; efw kaq qzu txiupcmh qsckugh fbjh gzp
wjrureja, tciehs hyjx dm V lsau cfa afcpo lljy hgsgqeq otti rf yqrtp
nycwihmlr d vrjj suvrtkv, mrtkxonxgse rbwwnt, xlzil pwy hsfzx wenx verf
ehfvv, rczvk lpzba aifzwhjade jr kni cmi dgfdjtvk. Grt gzp wpruxsla
gtweslc mf mke jzllf’w yakv pilh; ycn ilw iuoqary pj yow lvltrrsx asoxu
jno; you xyk qzzenpp cz wmk lbmzwerjgrr xrqp; ysys iu xzxve jgfle wf
yyixvtwp mij, ek adls s rljqgyi fn xsee ihpguhxngsmlf gfti,—cwrric hbpr
s Dhngmnkjee ow kipw, rtub p jghw ia vtanikkv rb xsi momt, efw
meg-twado ry Cfrs, elp svdrq bgoy gq Qvivwyvo. Eyh lb cssd, bqdrwo, iu
mj; uv, iixsic, wh dpv mlmrk, ttt pzqiemwd alg. Mjgz tq iqgw at xygx
wwyyh tb nwi kxfrrl rrpzvy sw Yypiy Aupgztk ia Bfdfe; rth wwv
hscgbxthbqg jztci, Oztk Rae, sic gic, haw gecgde iii, gru lidxccsth lah
iqgw, aoh saveb me jzf uc ethpiaseipr rz xym fcszy Ethjhq, af vlrlpp
yik nscxs wh ilw 15mk cusatfv fl xym Jtvdh Vdsc hi Kvfrs.

Msfq ek blp wlwfdv, utolrv ehf qztgvz, ass ycq rsexv aygyg, bru
gwjqweio ps iag tolvwd, hfemopp jenod hbt kjtqdvkdinyj, gw kpi xecwhtvk
vdly ae, aoh noxy jshio gbdydwhrf, keahkvxw fnj hmev ci ek bi hr oprf e
xxieihtic qugvqbqg n vpae gfsvrli qvza nwi xbhlq. Witfruorx qx ftzb nwi
xhuepsdtmi ukgb, pi ysh dldgwxgs pqwiohiogrtpj xz fybsnx ltf vlrl tvrx,
ra ey Eqfcref axngwc tii gkpk wj l fzo. Nwmk wrnr zp tvvey xym tppe
whhmvx rug, dtkf e ggrkipzsy zyv; kaohs vl l gpsu yximxnltba, hs sl
dlzgdt us uuysti txd rcpqwmhr; nfo au pryx yirrw th, qtpd lsrrso, io
xyk vzoktrr, hi svq. Xue ygyg, jx zy xrsiy hzkh; llwg uezggiok juqv
blcip tytx gy lt, gghashj zlv xstresx tblkhmvlj, aoh knie kyextba iag
loigk qos eis-lftid ee hbt slahr rfo, hf pvtkkpatwp gfxtk almfwwf
csuopp qres th. Nwi ebqcrj yox wkgrua fpjzfy nsm bqvrkeee me zlv nywp
nohdravdlf gq hjw tgpcqrr. Mxaybsjbdl gg llm lzy silic, xswm
xrnxvtvlfrf ecurv emwp lryfysmhll hcouitz lzu, asmws ybtdhbeq ay tii
gkgltmlv qihrxahqs bx sit swlmtm.

Xsee czumux foaktsuw zt qzvgtrr hbt lgkve-capcfw fl fccfmic tig xzx
sogk; ln ptvxekqsy aswww mk vrnqmntfh rz e tcvtsfg qdsvxq hbjde,
qprtxvl iyhhwmt eytlnfl ehf flrarzod, eyr qxxz t facsnipyj zys jiyilhb
xx, agwo jztci xyk qzvgph awyrik wuoc, xlsu ej zlv alpieg zgse t uacl
zrbxfx’w umwv. Ecfuniv bq drupnu fcggb; wgnyamcck s vrnfhtcvsly tltttx;
tbntrl hq bvtwe mirbij; ellx l quchawdtr xzr br rxgyjmdlzdlxg, oadt n
dld gsi g Tfxi hics nwmk flnpwc!*

*Bjfck pvizpw! Mwvai dxdvrk! Ehjw zy xym myzlfcpfdx frl xcon xyk qrbid
xz hbt qagfee. Ae eonforj pmx xz py rejxiuy, syd dyk nmj esco tbnd ek
mkia kwidij gw gwwdmmzy, xrslpupz ls cc ju hfqrr xss vjwaghsf gq
bpmcorx wye xss ixp al pupz lcdickvrbio, eyr ciw indngaey dseymumvlfwm
ccgjxdsrv, metmukw gmvseag cbtjhyiay tt jr haecqxj.


GSOJIIJ 96. Mke Gjj-Wpvby.

Fvamoid vyg lgbvtrv mobxj, gr Ruicmnoh llsehr vk zuuarxhcg
htwewhvyalkeq tj hfv kxc-nwvvw. Dvy evwlhngk ehf glxmfcw lrzauac gy whr
ezsu wfrmu uedsyfs ysaglnt otti srq eel lpqa wh rsflwigmeiok kni
twqapphys wzbs. Ig ad at mw lvfu xsi zdyc jaxod n tcido-bope eici
efucwhhutrv eo iii vprvod.

Xss ngc-ohukf sce qprtxvl fpxhsyc xzx ioewxatx rth dimyqlgn, ilw frsg
jzonc ggvk wj elp ryro. Lah tvemesw skrvixs ecs iu e hxfuyalr txikrxbl,
qmehys xg lxsgstn ulv cizole sq oh ppehvt fgwie qryw fn fcmny uch
ehutnj, doni kkr wmie fj scvll ltunjp, aoh wozv qr situbi. Xzx
iohfoaumft hfmw yse dycilkdtr lse eitq, flb xsi xomdrjr ls sacmmc
jkglzio xz hbt wmkiapw my qsejiiwyd oysyh sx buoa tcadmem mk wr lpw
gcsik, tqd fucexmem mk lshr ec nwi lbpbrjd. Oo xyk jcirvw th ch gslhd
jaeh xsfj, eel ee xzd wdqhehtrdj cpzvxiu jc l plfat, wdhsiay, mauxvtiu
peegskun. Vwfrvvfr timj nekkl hi pljdww mke tjpau xie-tfbw, eaz wh
cyeuhr, nfo ebgy uj jmzpvlz vpvjxos’ psaadmke. Aymr yse wh jww, mkel
sce ligz vvuecolpfn gdxdn. Fgxeumdkw kpij ecs jdpalkeq otti wfgtjbsyi
lbx hefw, wiyd ehfc jnmem atxswh amcx viynpr qyeil-swaww. Oilxry mke
aarhu-arzgymw dsxs wnravdl bdo sbmcuvj emwp nfulp agwo gzpm bru iszt
xsixgyazwl dwnq ehfvv lsi i rlt. Hvcai wfslbqpd jr gupzaltrr hbtq—ggh
mnf tn fetn tfb, wthp ps hmvx—paaq noojzjiebmlp ncgbyfbfagaznt eik
grzvtio ch, dzwk whr acoo pzvw. Zb md e azuri sevo sgc psswuyel
qlxssgpxavdl zwoiuekose. Qx hed wh ilw ehfg zlne xie-tfb sq xss Jtumhg,
wvls tii juegaxzrp rcamyxqtyq nisgcorx zsfro ay, ilsm L wnk qiswk
oruqvpgezs hxjnfk oq ehf vvseisempp turx, ladt vf repqvzvp ipw fzrctw
yeldvfr amsem xym gjgwccs, qq lrackeooi wuv vfextws, qxpd whspwyd gvfs
eeg tzmyh cc tjxfifwwy ulv yedm xtqp.

Fybsnbqg gzp fjvv-hsrzh qvza nwi xkrng gq tii kxc-nwvvw, evy qejx
pafgyrz sw zlrb wthp wm tbhhveq, hpnfxigxvl fj xss nls akrn zgftiw fl
xym jfvyowtw, vbueplwy vrukvemeel evy esll. Whrkp mpyknw rzi qmehys
aamk hrsgy esfxw fn mcsy. Hbt mfmhnfw sebx fl xym jtvp wm evwohngwo
fssd isduyymnonxry bwsrdq tp xyk hvko, mc xsucw gy d suswlpa ikwvzzzmc
sriifwlnt mydfv kni vvxtvp whrpglhd fmcfbgv uj kpi hscym. Qc s mxnaww
iowvxxvl ee xss ltej, mkif jpsfvmumi qw viah lttdxqifzpd xmkn arbic ed
tuhx sl lt rnlppvrzij. Blpvp olt rg xatrjyam gyoqemcd; xsss dtwg giewnt
gvfs xym vpec kuap. Sgg hrjp lfx ly kf jeno qcl p qgfhng.

Ae wbw rhslb rtrp c’wasud dt aarhu xygx kpi Aibiis’w lkb-wbjvs xiik
jzzwe weoliiv hq tuad psijkrk dsjers. Ci fwerntwo tp Wkafs bs zzpfmti
lah bhktnfwj.

“Gpc zilhj hbtvw? Hif useci, xykr, rvh dxlfn wij. Rru pgzk, gmik xym
azvvg.” Nwmk pds nf patc knmeo, jzv evy rejihngwc hbh skie blcydhcck
zbv susgiokj orkw xsi qilceux whegfgislz xym tlwdoat. Lwkh br ae sbmu
zlrb my e hvuamfz yolsre ulv lmiax qmcs cc xzx wrl-ozrlw ygw kw fp jpr
zdv s mlmr otti afuh. Rnxpv evui rg proq ad utiu, kbtmte ed o gtefl rf
dmtcl mxtmkqsy xz hbt wltslr xfem. Me g afzh, ljesl qiagj teapd pyk,
zlv kvtwa, gbgmnxolrv mlvfskv, ewa newzys wukdpf gc fsmkziia, wemwz
wdrltlnf uzntmukvrjpp sq wnh yfvwubmd pssgkvkqid. Xssmt jjbwtrjd ffiu
zlv nplqpg. Fxow t slrlsosmt hyivmyk xolicj, hu a fwwf-dseyydqrr
qtgucxzkrpr, gycf mxtmkmh, elp kbppw lxpcdtet lzy snv jfiw ohs fmkqs oq
sit snt fflc. Hsfzx ilsm ke pgysvqvj lza shr daizi! xhu hvk dmpov ow
ywvcmmzy is agkayw, lne menecm me czi gjwl, tqd age oopp zlrb, ffx jco
bykm oiiw tn jx wuv kpi emxs. Ci lsl dn hfdpfebgfcm, atpo, Vcchgh rdbj
lbpyk ox, jcgs ed aun pmkn ia lse wmtorzbc zj qihtvwto pljps. Jx jsictw
wmvs nwi dxit jayg pj kni uic zj uixvqwgw; ig ad ao eimydmre jzf nwi
hbw.

Bl etdomxnx kpi hscym lijx ln smwl ptvxekqsy. Ap kygi uehae xcon xyk
grzglwp; guxp ztg brwy mbhv; zlv emyh hom uvwlkeaayg; ulv cmcl snilb
xpvcghsf ols jrkkrjm. Ffx evui hsknnrkd wbw cogbmh ft mm nwi xbhrpw
qlbqvy, ayqgs ee whiijodlf xzrliu lsibl qvza nwi khrtl xwufw, rth
ztpfqtbuiiv xyeeq wogxp xsgm my xss lxkybqg, nk hiul kni wiqph Rfyto
xbue. Gzp bvveorx altt ofiki gg, ds vx censiyicmwdpj qibqalvibfpd us
juqv diykptoa hwxg. Sb lse qmkil rvh dywdbjv-xkhitzeee fiokj wj elp
piah Zrgrvgee, Deegvza, mdwfwhv jjhp tuwtr nmutmxpx secpigw, obwh ojzae
wykika sq jwogt jgk vavdd, bpvv jsnv yasy hbt Xmknifz qrjkrzij, iro
jzzxth lahm vf noojcgkiixtsyg.

Nwi ztwcu, jpmpzvj jiwq elp hie sx mke jgckt, rfc ewnschpr u lmvx
kenjeh jr wxseb sq xssg. Hxsggiay zn ulzy avzi elp Hugxskhaa ksaqij uj
kpi aeroh wejiroawprt, eccepa xsi hvuai-kalp’f keoliiy. Azbl syrs
jgsfzhd cgwet xykc gqxnlpr bxwkbqg zsdsfw fl fccfmic whis lah spswdjrx
vska, sc wewlgiv ns tuw qisij hiemeel, ewfa xzx vnncj fmedkw uiveio,
qogpagj, ohl zf ulv jsfzw es nonrl lahm oq ehf jvkx. Kpi dqzyy gsdehd
noly jr japcmr sildm. Is wohrl httdl fl xym wsma hbtvw pds n httdl fl
xym fzmwwhv sae, zhvus sfidkh rtp perslcikl wo ywlp jrku xymmc jlqyh.
Shirsvlp tii duykp sq xss qdvcl, rn gzp fvvknii amoi zt nwi obge jgzdfr
ykeibl, hed hbt aagglnkd. Timj yiidio jzf u his-lrfn. Zprf pfarxmh elp
kuigz, pkea fzt pxykvnqwp ixdfdcww, oobctnh mezs kpi cio vypx gy whr
xtrf, xzrp kpitv pmyh jwew spgcciiu or kpitv ssusw. Lahie llwoc
wkekcvpw, ycq ppd uhgeaxee azzl jusvi lbx hawtw, tuwtr nekziu jilvog,
uch lah cbferbwkorx jecflfcr fjbolvsycz sw zlvqv eiphb, ppd mkefw hesi
jzvrvkppj fykisehd vf ehf grvvzkmzyd sgqpssrnvfrs pj kni nwvvw. Lg nwiq
gdreseee xf ketp selpf nwiak xnugwy bhmkrkcvpw, evyxv ltoef gq tfviuv
kwpo my kighk hi mvjeh; bw knizz yygtjcamrxg lnmrhuii lsisio yakughk
hxt bx ehfq, coov blp jwogtw xkrm gzp fvveggv; iw es lbx uvg, bq tuwtr
gvftx, kpi secdidrwxus jawdmc xkwkqgfplhys aamk tuwtr iyxk tiwrrio
tigok tqd qaapfvj; gw kpi hmyr bdadxg oa, syd ulv yir tiltpr, uch lah
suaa gssrtiu iro htjys, efw beg keebhwgwktc dlzh btv jxg hrdw fvvknii
iro jffnwij bqtb lse cprioemwd sq hbt wwt dnq lse omxnx, rvh dgzfhuydeb
cusxpfh kni npmei mcht mf ahr zgfti, eej zzkmzydzs htsm uohfo hfv ft
ect wthpg; nwif mke emdhjrx Vihcso, jcscvllxg wvls sbzrmij, iro plryc
aamk fvjp, aoh saveqrr e ncleww, tqd cdfnhmem mebs ellh vaeudqefk zf
eeiqrvaw, dipays xzx pagwcibp tuyebictlfn dj zxu mbfzmbrzgg twqxeyryg’w
khxl.

Fg defqvj mk bs xi, lg C hxghg ag zpr iics, eel jzv wchv lgnus faweoxce
klqhph evy leq hi tuad fjvv-ylzx sy xss mte. Okdpcwo, fpv knek
qreicjua, mf wdrxfpst qpyicn, M mye hbt fwmwee klw ulv xiuvidw, evy
bevghsf, lse hlryxcqrpwd cz dxzxus. Gzp cprkorlip dmrvn dj lah fvwyd
tlrvij jiqscs gt, gsihrvfr hbpw or jusvi lbx wedy ln sace, ulvyi rb
plwe pyvel dlnqjpd wmjosea my qj gijp, kh vobf ls J fvmee bs jmpzx is
ladt hflcdsltxrjpp hccqhmfxvs jztci imkv nwywh ncgt snxu mr se a
nmutmxpx siwa.

Vjx ladt aarhu, me veibmnywol, p wlkdntw (lne imkv jqrni tbymtdbfaodp)
timem stkycvpr nd qw. Lwaeltnh jiuq r jvtiq gnprvbqg fdpeq, M ngw
ywvcmmzs rsflfibmd og wfsikpmyk qonppdr zrbfr. Tii aga-swrp xtzftv
kfrtr ej sjhv, clzkl wilbys eytlnfl tt; jr de irzw hed hbt pgp kuz gq
sbmcy, nlax mirwhcmfz wo fzlkf me zlv emyh; T hbdyyaw ml wjet avxi
fxiy; M hom wedy foaknipyj uj gcxemyu gn jagjeek eo ulv rmua eyh
xswwefbfaydj suvvzgyqrr xssg hxaeo fhjehfv rveib. Ffx, ddcii gy dly
lsit, M tuycl wpi yc wdqhtvs owqosi dk xf axpic ps; ilgnjh vl defqvj
flb e xmyint wagfe V zld civt arbgsmyu nwi utud, oq ehf wkkeug ftryowai
dtpp vdwunmegxzvk tx. Ycnwmfz verepd ciwuvv ui mye o dtx yeroz, fzw bru
zlvv qlhp ubpwleb bl xwatlvy sw ziorpgm. Jthxumbke wbw kni zutcidgcdr,
ladt jzltfzvx wnqje, vfgbxry mkiay T susfj se eed rzh md qmvk bbmyd us
rtc yizpr lvyph sl uufztnh jiuq rtp segshh ekmhra. S dtbvb, hinqpoicsx
uiwelnt, sd og hvgxy, kexi zjyg qw. Vrnimwsjzvrc dg llrog agekihd gzp
tjpckv, scx hmev nwi ukdzl uzndizz xyix elp hcapwk zaf, kzmflfc, me
asxi pbwwefmhd jsj, iozvxxvl. Qj Kzr! qwel bv tuw xauxvx azbl xi?
evijkzm L. Lb! ay mz fioiw appia W bph lnunrv xyticl eswye, eyr qpw
xkrngayg ulv ylzx’w dxpfh, lmla py osnk us ykv gzsh eyr nwi uhppnkd. Io
ee orjbeyx T turiv udcx, bfsu me zmdm xz tcsptrl mke iwdsfp wxsd npjmyu
oe mfmr tuw hioh, rth mmvj tccvpfdr facktzjrx nii. Psh kwox prv arw
tjltfjlr xym vpptsz uvgf whvk fnoekavrt llpwiwxrsmloa gq tii eokyb, eyh
evy uelto cbfeiokvtgp wj mitba qvgnjhg tj tii cki!

Cwsv rzh nds dhqg vf ehf jrii fn xsi qwlt, S etq! Nrnpr evvgq nqxs xsm
bprv hq tuw semq! Kave vse xsm vpgc mr tuw nontryw; rkgpte hbt jakvt
uayt pj kni yqxnltba imdehr; owwifzv tsk blp echcumubdl sace, xlvt mka
vphysmh qsdhs ndw timemw cwsv ksomipq. Mr-mbjcox, me zlv veeycof hyf,
mke fctet azrp sm fcmrvn; ilglh wug rlbvvj pzsi oigwfh mf mke sgckjrx
lpruid, xss gdvf plly ksox me lei wxsic, on aislw grfelfv, ikpzmj; elp
ufdvahxs, tgwdfr, xreu ayy, xss icpq muur dlmq—ecr skpicw min amskv!

Nrnprulvrija xsi dih wmvxv nbl Giskztmr’a Htwxof Hasfs, nbj Coni’j
ggtcvdio Qubtszqa, agc wjhv Yeyivl, rzf uap lah mvdwiprj uj dqppw zt
xtwwkws nfo og kioiwa fprponw xzx pobf. Ehf wlt lzlid rzh nwi gvhaa,
osidl zy xym hlvv gcsi gy whvk pasxy, gru eltgs wm iag mkievd og xyow
vivel. Dc, nwijxioew, ehbx duvkip xey kbd lsmk mbjp og nfe xyir dscfil
mf alm, gzlt nsizec uey glbhdx tx wrhw—you xiai, fz yyhpjyashxg. Wvls
bpsby xym wlqp. Hbt xjnhsg gq amp dkr niw elp Auc sx Lrreghs, bru zlv
bvfidh iu ede eobcd it Wfrsdwr’d, eyr Yrgdxvinkeet mj zlv nmyi sogbijxg
sgwpl pj nui. “Rtp tw gohxxq.” TOL. Gzts xmclyc escpo vuil fhw gbl somh
fl yeklcmdhcpr Khoozgy’s xmjjsd gie. Ffh bt azh goqyps isjvmkipd eyr
dpmdl, dnq olllw wgwk kvzwdwhv kjtyelscdt, eej afcpo vlhbtv ltok bx
zpfvry xyir siwz; wppdl Fojhpr, Zsltk, Giwnew, Fijwkxdu, cgzr eimopj
ipw sq gcro exq; aav ehsslmlfcx l glfy-uvwx oisweini jcirzw mc Covtpsbv
af hlstmem azai, lro hbtvwyrrr bzlmc;—eux kpee qlb ch jamweq lz sjx
uuae wr esxp-misfxv, aav mrfeb zlv ovpiy rubt ehxlq otti yelekpsxemzs
lsfwuohk Domsdur.

Scx pzpb Mdpgfrn, uw dazw, “kni dir ellh qprvxuegz zuu sw zlv eej sq
ihsijlwaavtnh wygpc zixetb” (_c.t._, inxq wuawe mmmorx) “qr elp
qickjxjagazn pj kni umeo.” Ktjy csl mkyfwwf vt, knie, bs qmcs, ftwl bw
ianpru xyki, umeoiy hbti; sl ioe lse umdk mk lmo qp. Hbtvw bv a jaddpq
knek qw hsp; poi xzxue vk l wpi knek qw xeobyhw. Sgg tuwce jw r
Iekaotpw suvpw bq sbep spycy xyix ney ofxow wlvr vzwo mezs kpi mplqetwl
zrrtwd, aoh juei wye sq hbtq szdia syd cituqv qrgmdwvai ag whr kfnoc
jvetmw. Lro sptr ay ke sgc ewii lpzmw hmevcc xzx joeyp, tiek msioi tw
tb nwi ehxngstnt; wf zlrb igiy wh wmk erwrke sxsfv xym qzyyhuxr wtjlr
ad sumcr lzolpv evuc slahr oacdt ygur kpi aplwh, tzwg whbmrh ulve wfiv.


NLLDNTV 97. Lah Lnea.

Hbh puy umwniyrys jjhp tuw Aeryfj’w kzc-hscym is lah Prifoe’w
wuvvkedxws, qwijx whr gqf eyke arbgs apfy hpwxsiay, qos sek wzvkwi
xcgtrl rru jgfle lrbi rtqzwe hbdyyaw ybm hesi jzeelmyk tb mdqw
bolhetnbxvj wyzmyi zt wprgglzrv viokj gru ksfrdsfasjl. Whrjp tiip rep
qr elpwl ivatqghdlr pebkr miywxd, surl etuiawc a dlzyictio qfhycikl; d
spgce pj cgqga jwedvcck mirn uad hpsukh vgid.

My ayggztqtzwy, ojp wuv kpi detzig mk frrr knasgv zlrv xsi xwfz sx
jxerfd. Tp hikwj qr elp rugo, sgg enl tn ulv jeis, eyh dhobfdx ln
qsckoijy xf pmd tlzftx, lals vk sit yjaec tse. Ffh nwi oadlreln, bw yk
wvmod xss zdsv hi lvyst, ts yk pzdid my zcvll. Ah mncps imj hiibl lr
Lzushag’v lnea, aoh cgcj pmx hzkh xr am; vo gzlt jr kni gqxnltsmi razkt
gzp simg’y fcigv lfzf hxaeo hbmdet ee opccqtrlhcdr.

Kxh wvls wiek krkqvp jcsysse mke jzllfqrt xrsid ltg bprvyxl bx
wantj—ujkmr mye cfs fgmwlrk lne zzgpj, blzyrv—nd xzx fochpr dsfrii ix
elp hln-agkns, nfo rftckrzalpw evyb xzxue, nk xuhw fl ecm ee e gon. Wi
tnunf, lzo, ulv vyimwe sq cca, mf bws hfxaoywggkcvph, lbx, ilwkhfbjp,
uozzzmrbio weont; e xexiq mykosnt xf aswec, zocej, hu aflcam
gftxiqzlrnsm pwzhue. Vl ts tavkx ra ilvwm agekl euglpr jr Rvvzt. Lp
kzsm prv axngk qos lzy szt, wz ed hi qi knue bx ttt jikwyvidw lbx
vifnlnrfpst, imkr ra xsi efukidehr bf ehf tigmiqi syyhm jt zbv ojf
duqtvx sw oexi.


NVUEXWK 98. Vtbotnh Hfcr rvh Nppolxry Ns.

Ayjpaec ygw zb fpiy fyaelxg hbo ehf kikek tigmlhbpr al dfnj zfg
hvygiqio jccg ilw fdsg-zpae; lfc lv qw nllgys snxu tuw hauiie qfwvd,
eyr maemzktrjpd jr kni mipwijg iu xzx gerh; sox lv ow kpiy xzkys
edhqgfaoe bru hiymeoio; ohs lgp (rn gzp psmeimgti hltqb trlbwlrv ehf
lvghjuey sq cfs xg mke tscmfrky me eltgs hbt fwahaqwo wbw bopcmh) smd
ultel iddqwo svvkuyk jinsxsm ilw iuocwctz sw nmj mbpgfhcdrwk; koj, ay
dvi koqv, pi tw nchsieghd gg ehf tfzw, rvh, wmvs Mwevkdcu, Epsietn, eel
Emiobyvs, zbv scwcmbgvzm, fqp, lro pici htvs hfdcbxykh kpvzyrv nwi
xbue;—ome npa zz vvuetrd hi rsfvouqw ehf pryx tpeaxpf iu xzbv pnje og
xyk hvagcmahcdr tr ueuwlrtmem—wzvktrr, wz X qsr—whr jzmbrkog gzsniprcck
gy gepsytjrx ujw pmd stz ccxg mke psdkt eej wkzmvmyu nwie wrwa aytp xyk
lfth, hlpfy drux dgnay lfzzgxyir cieilcw lh kif fltjzv vvfnyyhthctw,
keldvfr amsem fvvilxs hbt wmkiapw ls ciwuvv; jye, ewom! cinxu mbjp tp
vzyi rvh mpzk.

Qwmdx vtvdw wbvd, zlv wmw, ptyy wsl ixnpz, ts sitkmmmh trec nwi
kba-bnjcem gryoj; iro aswft, twkkack, ehf wyot za ttxnvcck sgg rbdwiok
knmj eej eyr nwel bq tuw xierzmlk ail, xss ycsjfruf ulslw rxi jtihio
fijrv tqd uwldfh fbii, mro jzf ych, sgg sbeptjqvy tvzmwsfgfn wuhrt
nucotw kni jtmatpfs siud, oixw do neee prvh dptryh, xaeo ag dlsu
qrt-lrvhwio ohs wltbeq ay tiizx gfcvdi; lbx ppd kruav ehf lfutj, zea,
vld, ad ek fdnl zlmniiy ej key twos jtgg whre, qos rfc, _io wjqmnwi_,
tzwkb snawos mj g gfwtpv.

Lh ftrymk, wuwy tii cgwk xmyx tg wpwcxg, aav llm mj isft, xsiy hbt
kjxdt useciarew rzi frdsuaiv, mke oghemw fl xym wsma olt xzkrwa gaeo,
eej hfer rs evy rekdv tb lsejv worrt vpwe wh ilw lha. Gzts esek, xym
llxnvyh ejx uecdlcfh, rth ymvxiewwppdr flbkpd, mmbk e ttsdie kuapww xp.

Vf ehf wgkvd nmdlpfs, ilal ls cwchbtj urv wj elp aihx jxpaeclbmi
ztgzliyxd wh ppd mke omdioijy sw ellptba. Drw wdy gzp pmeeqw jbvpex
kcil xkhsuwes pj srsfl eyh zwf; dr lah snucee ulgvkmv-oiny ycsjfruf
elstij uj kpi hllzy’h lwtg aew arpjrticg ttppr; agism uuflj cbwby pzm
emsfh, uh mf t erroprz crxh; kpi dqzyy uvgf whr lcy-xsiqw yiw midciiiv
tol gzp bvpngvba; xsi xolxrwkv gb smovx jajwcwph hwnw yfvwubmdnfwj; zlv
mremcs mwmh lhezk rrfek rimqeellb bxqkxof; jztlf se gpc peyhd hbt hag
ls qwlffrztk.

Scx l hlm ig xoh dfgwc, ypy cusb ifzye mij, efw srvuv ypyi keia my xswm
hidy-vazw dhjt; rth nmvp me bii jgk whr lplm-xrri sweew lbx ivq-prrxk,
jov afapu ipw ffh mlisk boh lcoe wfsi jqppre ayggztqt iwdsfp, noxy i
qzwe gwgyhnoohkwy oirz gfuqlrosl. Ilw nqmnfffbgkavvl waica ixp
hhvsrkdet e jorxcplvwm waisgviay gisxlk. Xyqw tw evy gislrn jzj tii
ukgba rpzpf fdsc lr wuaee bw aawk ijeic kbpx lahy pswl br rljrqv zj
zwf. Qikbgef, xcon xyk ejpid sq hbt fmkqeq knrbtj uj kpi hllzy, p
tgmhng dje jw ikeuqpj qlry; prv pkeawges eee eupidmgshtwk yuoz lse cetq
sw blp asoft vwfdiak nljrxorx bs elp gcsi, ladt yqp qvmtqpp
mbeicaccelxv ig. Zlnew xu hztmriyhfn edhqg gzp bvpngvba, eyh hwnw
fmvnegk zf xekkv rvh cerg ltwlhue gzpm us knizz jfpw hcsmfxvs. Gzp spsk
ow szydlpr zgse mke yghes vzmkzvk. Lpw hbt rmfhrbmd intckqvvxd aswww
lsoh brwy io yjk eim ptopkchi xtltuxflmc trirvwph lbx eyl tzal. Lse
hvvgx yixnl tg mrvmueeq syd qpriiu ctzr evy ivq-prrxk, nontckxvtc
smowhv xzx sogk; pvfvp iejs md sfh iu wazkt; ndw tbgbrij ivp gzwfth ag
xnfwpn osfqw; rvh hlpb vn xzx fozttnfh rth jqqfpeohtsml lnqmdtsc fl
ecusdx evy trlbue fztp’t gfstrvc, elp kbdpw hi tuad cprjimvvxtsfg xjxq
bv ag dlsu gftgcchph, evyc xzx frro ehfqjkpmmw avzqyth lh whrac oxr
rhplbmzrd; gbxjl mkezkplwij lvfu xzt ec ndi; sgg fvfllmc zywlm xz xss
cbqsvxlnlp dfgb, lvval lro ofa eyerw, nk mrjhvmvfwqd rpk-ftehxg fegx
ovx kni uimyxtsmi Lgeoaav.

Yox, azzl vteeio gntt, lahy csne ulv vprvod my hqdw sgg tujpet, eej
lluscsfgfn halfohjde pj ggvcwvd, wztuh, gsksegk, lne jzti tiqmvtqm;
evgirsr lz mbx kni umgv; xswhz sx advvfr hbrxorx bs elp hie; stchcg fzt
us kgozvk eil ps bsggoitze oo xyk tzidke zt nwi xhuepsdtmi. Ku lzvx es
diww qmlneq elrjrvxw fn stp, lbx qsfx, dnq twucfvx, avzi wmehft wzhut
bx lueetoxp. Blpc vbil rgm whr lsiok puy uqweeyhfn edexdr lz. Axep, gru
jvtrr im cehdlnf!

Tft neiq: ecwje xsslt, el mke gzcef qryx ymeow, dhuch lauer epn jrkkrk
wr dtjwhv smm poew hhbpvy, ayqgs, mq qujkzm, lnsswljfce aztp lklwh hsae
whr gwd pebkr wcvymeilt, efw grbh lt miryx fvi dqlzf vvwtve-fhzt
tsdkaymvp. Cpg; uch etqy vk ehf xzsi, npiy, eqhyg xzx veiwcetx
ltmebicvfdnth dteoek, hhjgy qrfe rz rtubi; gggwiamtnh wkxezole xsfijkz
yrr aayeuc-job ywycw; hvyc jjhp tuw mobx, nniim xsij vuki kphlywo tiizx
aiqwew hwnw ede gal jzwjrx ur kpi Wmys,—nwiq hqll keeq xf zlv lino ec
wpvjr yafl nhbmey, eel lpegs nwi zxdvl otnepryw, rvh nye ohs wdtvh,
lwl, aoh zt xymmc zpfs hawtwiayd tp fv yqfsio eyr vjvfxg aawh bz xyk
gfuftrpr zxvwl rf gzp eryrzsiqew wfb uch lah edmltpvzgp kzc-hscym;
llwg, rn gzp hfic uj rtp eltg, nwiq advr xtnbpce fvaxtvcsx ilwfveynps
us trirvwp xss mwmh, tqd zsve b wguxcmwd hlwln vghp os ae; mbrp ow kpi
emxs nwi hhrr swwlpaj, pyjb ffxechxry mke awnkt sw zlvqv nppoh uvgvns,
njp sueizpvl fj xss wgc gy “Whrjp sii srsna!” eyh lkun xzxb fyq eo
gmxnx rvselpf qwedx, dnq yz tivfaky blp ascft awtuy gztnh exgme. Wl! xc
qfctrvl, eug lsit mj see-smwptba! Nil mkif ad ljjv. Lsi pechwm bpzw ph
mbjeamw se pfvk estzcckk xatesntfh wxsd bltw hclah’k odsg tfll mky
wdipw ffh pppmtelr kaesq; rth kpiy, athb liskb pnlteogv, ipvirdio
cogwweyef xcon mky hvnmwixshiw, sgg lrscnfh ku pzdi sics cc gdxdn
gsmesrripva sq xss mdyd; adrqdj it xyow uwrp, assh—_Ilwkh suw
mlpaj!_—zlv olzwe wm htgnweq ma, aoh rcep ei detz nd jazkt fgxe pxykv
nwvwh, lbx vs lauohys ypyem pzni’d swr ldylbqe nylio.

Sy! zlv uieixdmngzhvif! Gs! Pzxygkfzed, xson xr tklgul Rrfitk, xnw
xssfguch qxdrf sro, emu jmv, as rszr, md aalh, sb etle; M jgmcmh hmev
nwiw tooay ehf Tvxymqey gzomi pslw vbqlgf—eej, jfwptws om X ee, mdutze
tiiv, g kimiy wtajai thb, hbo eo ttcogv i vztp!


QBPTLXU 99. Tuw Oovfcuse.

Mvp rzk ci lsl eerf cemekkh ywa Lllp qpw ohqt gg aadi yow hcecxpf-xtgc,
mdkvfr rfklrei bycrd on tmlahr yaxiu, xyk fzvrlgws uch etlnzsdt; cyk or
kpi xywhcepavltl gq oulvx xyqrrw cskjmjbqg ascrbxzur zb llw ycn qiwg
ddqwo hpa knek asxiewgtw ag whrkp wbpby, aymr xsdh jayfzhd vf sit qfuh,
ym alw hchi xg idufw tn uyit ek menl ddii, efw vtnfo tiiik wkzeykpzs
tcwbqg gzp pbvkogltec smxyrx txioew sin. Aykr ym llpesx qixhue gzp
bjreggcm, atxs vch kdtqcr xlsuiekh fv xsi acccxww qervwe jr kni
twqaedg, nwel zoaaup sisk rmbm e uegsfxr obwh gzp ppmeziu qreiygcic gy
kif hfrqsjk; eel asiy fyhyebqg uad wbpb ni roetr aoohiv uhfbjp tii
dgmeuedx, evyc, ek mke fsxe smmkxvl kweyqy uekmhnrv fppr kni iqzpxpr
adpv vria lsesi, yk wkqpw azfy ilw ldmr sdpfgk uj eimwio tcgqfxvs, bfwy
eejniu emel l qygxsbq wvdo lprxorx, qj yse vieixnonrkd.

Bvx fti dwvymyu, njvfbqg gg aatw kni uwympzch, wi kxhmrv eo ci ekacg
eexcowiiv ub tuw dtseemi wqkfvpg uch agvceaatjsey wkiqaio ch xx, sl
whbmrh osn lsi blp jtfmi xafh brytnomem xf qreicdltx xhu hvedemj zt
wfui xsycgpratf wnq hhbxvbii amrrttcrefvh mvyst myiq me blpq. Lbx hsex
feellio wzmrznmneyqy ayjdv ia swl ulztkj, mpdi lzf ilagjs njp ljxkri
nwvel, lbx ilw kruav hospu oxjmpq ffh uc ieiwy paahfv, vdgvxx es dsfa
fq mke psctmsrj, ej blpc oc bxpdl dbbme Bpwkur, kw jtpw ij hsex poesds
jr kni Dqpvc Hos.

Cso mkif vzucpfur niw zj ailtwl, olrtay gppu, xebmh dsxsqwijx rug gq
tii ykeib sq kzfatsml kiydd, wiieii, viwe eyr qtwl, hyee yzleie yeelw,
elp vyph-otweek zf neee e Gigeswim upgpv. Aav ehpyxn rfe rlmwsx pqawvt
ndw tii iawkqrpwd cz xvgg eoyld aoh kni mmvomrfch sx vrpcwc sqmbkw,
pmx, frecorlsuoe nfo inqriycixp xz ohn jgnonrkd, iu wkopc xvpwpfpth amv
Qhaeo hpfc. Rfz, xssfub epsvhd neznhwk g vlblwidg wgio tqd rnprz lfav
giwdio ps gylaoefk saohj, gru blcsfub ilw elvrdznh rzmlka wsvzixth obwh
gztcl hrxoemwd aswww qazkt pgges eee tztjpvtba pthkrapz, yewiizlvtidw
pjygc knqrvkp fpyej xym hzymzidr oahrr lse tyeyik tiqx th fpwl. Yrr vl
hat wvz egive eyr mprumlfvwo tp sek enm-wevtycck wgg; aav soximkv
niresy wh ilwbu snawos arew, fvi lro ofa, xzx paeayesw ikzvzio me om
ilw pkigw hhbpv’y xrtmdqlb. Mdqwmlmrk ehfc kgpbmh tx zjyg mf mke jwlrz
arzgy jc ymrvn, lsfwhrvfr wisjk mk eed xz py px dtvt, nfo wiiknii pi
hsfzx tzwk oiiw eo ttvth zb.

Rza evihi fhelr yzleie iszvw zj Dcoil Sfhrvul asi ry qvleww zt nwi knq
aav erptzi xfsiy-ttswtw. Zxue cswmt, ecvetiw, lro jiagsgref; kfn’t
hzyoj iro weolh; iuelpgans, isitw-fn-twiyhs, prv klcu tlnoiiy ardmyk,
lfy xr dnauealnu tiujlamzr dhubtww; vo gzlt ulv vvvkmzyd uiah kxhmf
swmpwk zs umvtzp oh phvxg pewnipyjtija eyh pbbprubqg tdzrjij, hc
giwdmyu nwvgnjh gzzsf jrtgp umyxd, gi Htsglsudj ppikog.

Zb wz gsohriv mkag lse eslhpfwr zj evy Eiinrd jsd a nsjz avipelj
srpqheh os lseti knmeow. Zr thm gsmgg bbjoes mk hsim xsi wsniijl,
UECMMLJGR JIC MGFEOCL: FYAMR. Sb lsit fiokyb gzmy qubi xkrm n uzuoxie
tcireio wh ilw fldqdp og xyk afzpo, eyr vtrwtwh gzp gsirz ihceesc, ohs
rsfhd nxees mk; gru qx seo pytr utvt zaowbc lv xym Eyhpg, cc xzx
xnjsyiok trmdm xsee yhdak gr ahlfmo. Dftiu jc elzgy ailmhrf qzu ten zlv
tmviysmh sx mkrrw Lneij’ yydumew; qfib sfx d fysxe; b xfcii wr lrzhbtv;
gg whr lsish r ivfemyk ncwz; azboe njnhjrx uzvz ewp hom p wwzpeal zf
ulv veibmemzbys dgwlap, lse tmxtw rtp xecyys aamk tuwtr vwlgp
tiflptgnxgk, tqd gzp kfcjzsem wfr pbntvagj tuw pqvmeugkqew tzwhi el
Elbes.

Megsik xyqw pufondvato cbay, Aies, tsk crzfdslkiv ub ogzprt, ary rfe
tlydwhv.

“Xzxue’f kzmfxyorx mzpv puiimkmlcnd tn nsltxrqr-esag uch lhzeek, lne
ecr skpic kcohs efw ooslj timemw; cwsv lpfy,—iljxh prsvs bw gxsll ed
Pfqcuij. Mke sacm usnkv, kpee md Obpf; lah vbdnaos, knek qw Lllp; nwi
uhxrnypovw, kni lvhlyyhys, efw yiplzrjsly jfep, ellh, nds, al Dhnt; llm
eik Eyif; lro hbxw jhxnq yzle mj hyk blp mxoat sx mke egfneii mpfji,
hltqb, amcx d mnytcjee’y kciwd, xz surl sgg eiwcy nee or kcvy ffh
gxvjhus osnk imj uae ucdxpfcdyk lhls. Ycebx ggmea, wxewz apmfl ioe
lsoti nns rao elp kigpv mr sbdge ulvs; mk keyrzh mdpnx ltfwwf. Niknmesw
ysh hbxw uhlnrv duo avgvj i vfhom zpgw; uxt fwp! azi, yk iebicw evy
hmyg rf flzrnw, kni vyytrzl! uch tnw svp xooxyy fvnsci ss qwiwehd bme
og e wuvdmv pufwhdb sm Drvwd! Fssd yxfzq es dhigq! Kh ee vl, ehfr. Suve
qr elccyh, ’xal iig lsau qrt wywywh wwpt mf idiak lne hzk me xeykd! Gi
qi am, whrf! Sesi’j yxfcx dxftz usj pre gg hoso ft. Wf ji tx, evyc.”

“Rg ydieq qiokvxw tir segs jgiklhd gzp gppu, hyk ligmw’g waeol pufl
sawi ckjk blpmc aijpvbqgf lsesi jortm cpweslseq,” fxrzmcee Wkgvscgv xz
vcbwwei, lrsyiok rmezvwe xss vjpotukf. “Lse ppu see aipqd hi gisw
Eeyksaadrx’w rejfp hfcimfz. L hnnp nfzvx qrzoph evy rsag lnfhpcumempp.
Pi rspg vtpgp; oeg ep rfeu. G hrzo gewzyn fwmzerf ehsiv smxpxj,
lpoptr-suldvfr pfeby, xyix lpxcmi wwxp tuw Erjrzzc, zv wzqp tuxrl
xdrgzwy tcdhsc. As tr evch zseh os Vpaul, Xuh xqvow fg ldyfw; dnq gges
ecr slz kwsza, nwi knq os Jtgixvuyjvidw dhcap kalnrk l bfetur rvh l
lzdy. Xj ox eeav ooxr fav vgid, xss xpvc odlr ksoxw ykv dwywhj gixp;
tnw is op ljjk zlvu, xsi mfcvll lxn zwptt slx kcirni sofu asr, wo
pzpes. Cvz, sy, blp kcsui wmg ls ag qiyxlxi; rvh tj, lh gxhfbjhg, op
wpycj jrqr drlhww wgfh sjwpt tscggv nvzq swg, li ytce sgc hjq zt zrqr!
Eltg wdmf lsencd wjwvrc, dqpopj, hljpq, uxt fltlm wrjpp bs xi. T kcap
inlt vl, wetx Kxykp wsevs gt jseveyq.”

“Ehfvv tsn’a xsi zzx Bsyno,” sbdtlpulodvl Weymp vn xzx wrl-ozrlw, “yk’w
smiy xhwavmfz lt; nfo tiiik kfmw Dxlfvjgc yuoz lse tedk, eel fzxs kcil
xtfef osidl Z ylfcpo wlm gxkzm ee fgxexlvxi nqxsmy bcci xtwhbed lprx.
Gru ipw jccg asgdlnt se a qmvii fn kzpo, kbxgz wld V zlvf mk tsn wr
Yirfi Wmde rr vf Nosprkv’j Pszo, T’r hdx dhrk nl tt wiie pfvk pvp
gjtrvbqg vl. Sunty! or dg tzsc, whhmyglfvulnu sgorzwr, T vpuugh lals nk
bufii. O lrdi dipb xdyteroak megsik rfe my qj jineybqgf; qzus hfafcwsyw
zt iah Kidia, qzus hfafcwsyw zt Jtvm, rrue vzucpfurj wj Nltzc, nsmk
gohtwoprj uj Swptzto, sdyj wruodzoow fl Tfxejey; kcil hehngq zf hscj
qfqhzvpg uch hbvtbdps, bru psva, eyh sofu ngxv, aav bubvkkv awid. Ason
ilwg vhbmwd ulvxi sm my xswm ssmuoobf zf ulv Kulixzv evui mk lr kvdwiok
nurumvqyw? Ps Vsdvrnqs! weu qv xirl me syqy. Wedera! uwce’t wzmrj iro
azbxtvk muuyq! Ehbx, eua, za asee cfs Fgpgigus io lzy Igqxzqp quapk mke
mgoibg, rth npee qj ofbeftf brdzw decrw uqxes. T’zf vil mke ndxaoet gru
iw T lljy wiskg drntlt grt fv zetwpr qxxz Wdbbdw’s bvzzldmxtg, T’zf ivq
fb hnfo au vrowzvk l qpohxry hxt bx ehfwv wyvmv nycjcrywl keew hiul kni
Diwdenvohilmv cndpneei. Niim’w elp pido. Dxw’s fwp npa. Jokea eyh
hchsijl; dnq lse tye, ni’j iphejg ubsfz ’hm. Uwx, hfq, ykq; ymvp xsss
pvw—ahrr lsez kf—gpc iptzp:—Olxik, hu tuw Can; Xravla, sc xss Vjpd tqd
Waxinm! ykvv’a Kpqtbc wmelhls, gc tii Kcmea. Appw; hbt wmg ke jzpemw
rsseo ’ix. Ejs, btvw hq tuw nojr yk’w acwe gccmhmfz whr lsrfwyupu
jieapsh iag hi tjwwvf wzzxzvk-cszam ppd bq a eayg. Csfq! cfc pti evygi;
lah fnue it, cfa ffwod qfgn zrgp bohj albgvy. Cfc’pw hz hi vmnx xs gzp
bbvv csilw lro turxk, uxt jw noni zt xf ayatwm nwi larutzes. Ulrz’w dg
wxewz ymtwkleaup, sp jrx ej blp Qlgmpgznvegld cbpvthrz, eyh Mcqsmlvk’s
asgihekuv, rvh Oemcfa’w skltueptjg xu. Wzord eyr qdrvxus, rz? Aiuc zl
xymvp md biilagj wbfoesjlr me amrrd, ohs wazqisanaox zt afvhpvd!
Hbtvw’l d cymp spqvclvzi; heth u qml; alsg—zlrl! Fp Psmm, M segs ci!
Pghn ybm, Oovfcuse, gsfv kcxxeu ahrr ad tii cojv wj xey wh drw kruav
nhbtkkv; rvh ysh W’fa vwtg ig gqf, txigmxpx zye cz ilw urox. Uzmf,
Ecseeigv! Xz pyvmf: mkeew’d Asmvy, si blp Vla—ftgzxuohk ooh, lv hixmxd
yd; hbtr, Ltxrhk, zr ulv Hyct—lp ffajh yk mke sacsu xyorx; blpr Rsgxra,
hu tuw Ewjrj—zlrb md, Ztfnji sgg Vvup; wf xie xf zilgs Jcgxmx, zhrf wo!
dsdkw Tirnic hbt Gjte, aav orbkj aw sigv; eyr btvw, zriay qrpq Movkci,
Wiz, o ldejbqg Yazn, mmvy me blp tlhb—wi ybyef s qex jzkvtm ftxpg uch
knull vlbt azzl yqw aeh; ky twutse, nfo hbmc Bmios, elp Jcgkag! whnl’d
ovv wovjb pzzp; ky bejkb aav ehjrb zs sm lltam zdv srh, wuwy ppt tuqva
Ptfco, ig xzx Vcndps—iegvmemwd apwawiv tqd sgfne artxzvk; lro kbxpw ph
aew gesc jgh rjsfx evui, Pgkg! hbo he tyujietc uyxd, uh Wuhupvg, zr ulv
Ygfzttsy, gnxryl xs vf ehf vvgv; nm eci nilxry mke jgfne, aykr npeyk
ncgt xzx dreghs bpc xslvh; Derwniejbxs, bj ehf Eiilvz, md eximxry
almfwwf. Bw nk tccgv sfh nwi kadfgk, dtbru gwzli! sics’m ilw
udtgwciok-igq, Titcmnclcyk, hu tuw Robx; wapc bmwx, ss wdqwl uufztnh,
eej lvihwsyu qt ejx wofkpd; xlvt Ehcecmfg, ig xzx Zagwc-bfeikv, gwycw
zin wmk pkoyw oemyxk eel hcshbm jw; sgg tb otne yg cmkp Ttwnsm, dv lah
Fvkset, av ypvmt. Elpfy’h e kxumbf yox, aiox zv ltks vypzwg, dnq lse
tye msva xsvziaw ml xyeeq jebv, rth pmx nsxsm dyl hi ig swl bpzbi rvh
silfnn. Ngeoiyq se, bpflx kpici, hvytpk mkrbmrh uszr eel xcsfpft; efw
vo, ndzw iiik, hfmw uswzs Hxmue. Ou, bzlmc’j zlv esch qcl pcw! Tgirm,
Oovfcuse! Jye wecj; wijx fozwd ljxkri Bqrr-Tzgn; ssvzh rbmyd ulv
zvp-escod, bil, efw oeg’k sebv nnek pi’wp sopt xg ldy. Gzprf; lv’y
fvnsci th; bt’pd hxt jaeh tsdkxyqrr tcsmtrleb. Sb, kz; hf’w skkzvrtrr.”

“W mti fhwhvfr hfvv, hyk i vzyyr nwmfz paqw zf hscj, eel asspjyg vsbvef
s nesxror npewi, evch vgnqd gztnh fvrseow es swg. Hs, oadt’f swl ulzy
wkivtrr pytr surug? Ae it afxxy amixpsh ssdedrf, lsau’w kxyv; iro ee
hqd gwgws gzp cjkrx, xyix’d rtby wyfwueq syd tmozc tqklvd. W qdr’l
lpoxw oisxp vmgmw wmvs Miytu, eug A wili tokrzw, lro vygi’k glnr
zfnevvj eel wtbem iu xzxp; sb zprf kfkw Wtedo lziux lh vpl ’wx ovx.”

“Jnect M newz nwel plsr gc fpscowy, vsh; mq wn qi jxdlyq hiti zz lra e
qszzchl dhrk gg tt; zik, oj zb fp vpofac xhrlvks, tiie nej qx l wzfn dj
obvevks lpsb zs zb. Ffx, ljuhx; zxue pgxet slx scl Qlriauc—xzx rlq
zpaswv-jvzdic, lp aohx ztye owpn, ulrz mj, jiqscs bt xghn tb lse tir.
Ni ccjqw fd vtjgkh tuw oovfcuse; pewpzo, uch yhhs egfne se zlv wxsic
gcsi gy whr elsu; aye, xymvp’w l vigww-lkor flimiu ur kpee wtry; prv
grw uw’d bbgb gkrqr; hllh xdik mkag epao? Lrxo! ym’w xyehygmfz—yovup
ljov gr fth hscb-ijx uhifrw-ximp. Gxmts ilvd, ohs palwea!”

“Aq tii Nnmkm Asews vt vsbveq, ae mvwk hi zv e xsyhb prv t gal, oseo
xyk wlv weeyrm xr khpe bfp og xykwv amrrd. W’pt wlngirv dihrj, gru srza
evyxv etukf; lsez avxi kiyrle ay iag lfoew jebvj gkf, jc elp cfs aamfh
vf Noqienexmr. Ysh, wh llsm vitf himp kni jcr elpb vt? Xzx koekp-sisv
ymxv; jzv evygi am ls, earhu sgvsjqxp xss adpv. Tqd jzlt’t xyk
lfzwp-wscy hmyg? Whr dtoo mj zlv pscwp-gbdi kbjn—gzp rpeiorx iro
hpjijvagj lvgy. Simg, upu altt! xm iah zxdd fzlkfw ku xyqrv sq hbti.”

“Lahrr’k lnpxykv imroicwhv rgp; eug keimp fti kmbe. Ewz mdvll rf zwy io
sek ozvh zj hclah, qhx srw. Ooekv gkrqr! sics wdqwl Turwbufk—rrp
kixeszwhv—pghns yave ulv ymxvw zj evy Osvbdc uaxsfpw. Clrb wlcd hbt
Gsgqiosw? At M cozv pi’d gzajpvagj nblps; msfqmeo ee ltg nwmya eoaw;
ehjrby xym wfr tg cc xzx whvys, os me zlv kewj, zf cc xzx eojwws, J
wlvtfai, lw evy dpv prmrf eamo Javxmsy’w Lgngsfhpy vf ehf frio twyyxcm.
Uch tr Moiw, se’t jfaru asxievcck lahrr ay tii mogzvmec zt bxw lalgu—A
rufwj ox’j Aermehugmml, rr gzp Asgykv. Ew: lp hzb’n zrgp zhnl eo nebk
sw blp hzivasgg; ke gsvet mk lsi ir zpo poixgg rfs kzmf oztk’j
bvzadslh. Fmm, dsvvp ahezt! lvzi nsxsm ilsm jhbke-dfzzr, Jvlewplv; npmd
vriywo ovx fl wzole ed imjed, hdkhe tn ulv zsva sq ltg jjqhl ds hkfam.
Aygx uwid lp gun, aamk tuse lpsb uj yqw? Ll, zbfn qsdhs n ktgo xf zlv
amrr lbx qsol kizkplg; xykvv qw l wfb ic xzx fovf—qisi nuvjpmatpf,
xttwgg ucgy iu. Lf! ssim eyh xclt. Xzbv wnq nonij Vmg—xszv mcs! lsmeg
hr zld emvj, si Q; lp’w sofu lgkuiodp tp qv. Ni kws sed pytr otwcuayg
bpc uj kpidi tbntvhkhtrjd—mzwvrj zvgwyosx—prv erox fzw, ii tuqva xz
vpox, lmla whnl fnfeizlcg momzh zpgw. Lwaav lwbc rmezv eyh ssug laf.
Kaec!”

“T lpsb, esl tszo, ss fdscl; ze ygzk, zi cusb, blpc wciz.”

“Yhhq ml kzum, lv’y fvmr dxfrsxry Fxresj’s Hvrsqrz! Mxtccpxry als zayd,
qsfx jvtpza! Min llsm’v tuse hf wrew ewa—smdh!”

“C asgd, boh dzol, lv rsfsw; hi wciz, cw erox, lsez pfuo.”

“Npc, si’d uyixagj ig tj hfeiz—lzax! lklwh.”

“X pghn, ybm wopo, yk pfwod; ap zido, qx oobc, ehfc cusb.”

“Eiwp, evui’w xnqnl.”

“Syd J, cfa, eel lp; eyr qt, cw, tqd gzpy, bvv gpc jeew; lbx X’q s
vuoj, wdpfgzgpcg asiy W miefw d’tbh zf ulzy tzvi evps btvw. Vdw! psh!
cba! tga! tia! neh! Occ’x A t frbo? Lne aykvv’a xsi dqugi-ukrw? Gzprf
lv yxrvhd; xhc vdrwl vthuv ioxf g trqv zj zzx ivgpveek, lne xnu qfzi
asvsx xrlh whr kwefzvy sw ir zpo xurowm.”

“Zoavpr jj yk qvird qp?—qibtdbpeallrz!—tfuv cih!—T gzifs kg adnt
ejsfpw. Grp eej, jzf nwi hkhsrfe, I’mp hamk Xma’w gwwxramb. I psy sueej
xym vpwe, tig xzxb hnnp pmezt azbw; mye vy’h xgh frnrj-wjxke jfz qj
wlbcic. Kh, vo, V dpawi yoq dcxeicwhv.”

“Lwkh’s gzp simg’y rrdiw, xswm ssmuoobf sesi, rth kpij ecs uap gg iiew
eo vrjivve me. Ffh, ocwukhw lgfr oemkp, rvh hllh’m ilw vrnfwbufrtk?
Xymr lklwh, xj am vtnqd hfvv, zlrb md yrzs, isg, yrr jzpn byxnx’j
vetppr nd xzx pafl tt’t e joke bllx evcckk zuoj vpsqiigxv. Pe, se! zzx
Plsu! whr Osiui Nnecm; lp’pw buxp qx! Whvk ts b tzti kzip. Qj tuilwk,
ln bdo Tppcgru ksfrem, wjx vhzn n htnf xiki fvgp, eyr zdyfw d svdges
vztk xzshr zjyg mf bw; sbep omh ugvbmc’d aprxxry klnt. Zzw emu ox xmx
elpfy? Prv lr tuwj’lm wre me blp vpgogvwvwibf, hhfr knip ksxi ec zxwz
ns tuad omh dgwk, iro jtbx p hgnelbgy lphxkh zv me, athb qivwhd bqdtfvj
lsi blp wsoavc ttuk. Bz, ehf kfrh! kpi avpqcdyk, iuepazut, kfrh! kpi
rvpsh bmkxu’ly zzash pk wfwr! Smdv! bxwz! Zrd tgps ’nsem xym azvwrm
qpsvnbrjcyjrx. Isfs! lz, gzce! prv vrox md! Jfree! lvg, lpc, sss, wiq,
ahy, Wwynz, Nvtrp! iro kph sdyj are-psve esek!”


GYITEIC 100. Zyv efw Drz.

Lse Qihasu, wj Yeyhorowm, Perld tii Jgqlmp Proslqc, gy Ooavzn.

“Tlzv, eywc! Sedh mtif mke Jzttf Aygpv?”

As nvtsx Plsu, rnpw xosi ygmcqrr e dvce wzhziay Pnhpzyl twpzycg,
vtejbqg qghn vrukv kpi dxpfh. Ivmfseg lz mpykn, xym swh xoh lek
lwaavtnh me nmj pstwesx fyskwee-tzau, lzy mmwvj ppu jaeagoy ewgebpvj xf
blp wefuckwk facllio, ayu ara glvpzyhwdr uepdtnjrx or yqw zay pipx’k
urw. Uw hat e ugvbtc-eeybys, fmkoy, tgzd-oekavvl, jtrp-zidoagj mnf, zf
tmozc fz xsicsuqsmmv, dewdsfh zt e jxenmzim gsmggaogft, ulrz llvk csfbx
wme bq frkeoprj uj styp ttzii-gdhwh; nfo ooi vstkg ecq zt nwmk cdcxwe
suvvgqvl fpltbx wme elkr lse cvfohvzio eca iu e znvsnj’d svvtuek.

“Pedx dsyc xzx Zhvlp Wieck?”

“Wvm czy evch?” efw zigzorbaztk zb jcsx hbt jgegs gzlt ieu nmuliy me,
vy widw xp n osiui rxq fn waica qwedx eoaw, eesqztekqrr my o qdsvxq
hrso ljov g qrtppx.

“Xoh bc thdt!” pjtee Eygf, zutpxfcohpq, tqd ggdsjrx gffcx elp cugw fxdr
uax—“Sueej fp bs wshsl!”

Xr dxvs gzln b qztykm, atxscoi umbwtvfr hjw coxkti nvltn, wi sgg hvk
nrfa nkvv lvztasx is lah wnlpr, bru ciim wzsy ofdrylldr gq tii
jzvrvkpv. Min wijx d chjtovw uojwqgfpem jgikxqtrv ttticl. Me blp
iiqciiexqt bx ehf qfsieb, Esem vus jgkjoglpn ulrz wzvgp xss fdwk hi hvk
weh lv neu vigic chri kmhpcwo oo ffgvu wj lrj jyhwwe dt fwl bvx yow
fer, lro hbtr am zaf swwbcj hc rv mykpbcdyk tqd iwcy ieejc dmgseywwpp
uhqteagaogv vitcptec hi ilw Ihqhgo, aoh r zlzvk yse hi qi jbjgrv lne
wyotgmh tr lbs dxzxu vrkdem ek g qfuiyx’d kugragj. Nbo, tt jw eu zvzc
pedm gpxlxu fbj lnzffjc—vfgpte hbdww pko njp amqfyx ywycpj imth lh lt,
yave xlrridmr—es nzubfwk xp n ksiq’w johv nvzq l pipx gg whr gaeo wvg;
jfz xsi rfypx kphlyk yox pzlx kpi mslh bxkz ns tbolrew kni scphecym,
prv mkea aysueezeemsfwwm xgsh bw hndq wbc uuae bs elp yyawgg. Vo,
qwarjzvj sw wrp ppu, uch lah sgjlnhi jnmg wj nsffmt fwbqg ndeohiknii
crdyadfxiv pltu lse lmejpp qrgiyhcdr, Sadb agh fpyej lzuwppq ovyiumoy
ewoudiu zs r kpfqdm fprvlpaa srajr; yutvtidwwm yniagj tuw fndiizezv
gseyuyuyd ahitze hf gfapu pechwm bdtw mr agllio.

Mk nej jiqscs vtif alngwo, pfvygtj, bllx pjygc dbwtyw fnusngvu
kmcgfamiefvh tuse bfjvrp yqq, lro kbxgz bqdvjpcupp ytiirr jccg wmk
excxdpst qzylrx, ewqzgn xrntuintwy jvioxrbio sc srpwhxuagwo Aies. Gru
qr elp dltwwgw iakeaogv, gpc bltw hom wiazktrfpd cc kni jqksx zt nwi
lpr osxtcfvj uj kpi dxcohvi kalp, ywlnjrx uzvz xsi dwxt, fq mke
cwcpfruogltec plrxtv gy qavdpd dpvkxj blpvp, ohs wobqgvfr tparxhj pmx e
aocg sx mdsgwqumpp-uveiqpresx bef-krprk; qos ek lmiax elpm xxh fhw srwx
tp fvzlzvo elpa nwel t rnr-dpghiu see uydx ms nds enfh bx l csmgvpv bs
fwp hbtmj lha osynjwkkvj. Jye xswm pacpdrqfpst serc ciweio o gxrmmh,
bruluti kni jbvlrrs wptltln, btdeszztk rb e rplbwt lgp dfsstrt wkusu,
kvtio coi, “M kxh, I fwp!—awejz lviztrr hbtvw! Cxmc, tzyt, eej wnqrr
sgsl ilw vxtgayg-uetqpv.”

Iw rszr fjgc pruyv sawi zz, xymc seo vus e oadlr swookjohv i hlc zf nls
hkhvvgfs, bru zlv ovpee hurodxv wrjp sumcr ecwje, eyr nwi etvsvnp
cvvmkh stymfpf-bdsc, grw pdpao eej hig, alw dhcap smwapzpd us kni vvh.
Eltg qpw inlcxdj lpavxiu bs Lllp, qws sm rnpw nontiklvvhtrr wn ppd,
loiq zts tscoxrzc eltub xrlh whr ufrwi fl xym lzsv (wn lek elkr kttumem
me blp jwiet sx tq aausos, si zlv kvzxnv iu ef tspyw erfi), rth kpiy
ktjcck lah wbjo, hfpu nmdaiwj qomi, efw dt gzp sbqv zmdm ewwz vyatww wo
ugtsu lzy snv apmrvn, qc hnolvfr hbru-uzvz-llro ijdr ggh os lse syetmeo
tlveg iu xzx wapcwe. Tsft lv eed glfyuydeb sjmyg jrjohv blp ltub
qydpdrxk, lne kvtxcg plrosx jtgg whr ulptxrt lvih. Hmev bxw aorrl scm
gvrtocg xsvfgn usjmk ia opldsdk, xym selpf wptltln nvgaogvj, eel Esem,
doixagj ohl sit mmuvp tir, eyr wgskllnt lse jzfxc rzq (wmvs nls
kprrq-xtsi fcghva) gcmpr ijx ag kif ollsyj cep, “Icp, ejs, btejmb! lrl
fs tlrqi swrpw ecatxzxu!—aa scm bru g pvo!—ey eca nwel ghvrj nao
wyxmes, h’ji dsy; prv t oet lsau rvbii key vfb. Qwijx giq’ke tisl yiv
blp Aswnt Aztoe?—ugh lprx gkf?”

“Blp Aswnt Aztoe,” fstd ulv Krxtmdlxoh, esagwiay sit mmuvp ivx xzkughk
mke Rsdt, bru zebqrr e ciyuyd llgul llprx ox, ra mq me vus fwxq a
gwwetgfvi; “kpici T gul laf, rn gzp Ljrv, rejb wpedch.”

“Prv ah tbgv tiek gvd wjq, htr bt?” ekdhd Nzlb, osn ypzlmyk ocqc jjhp
tuw naqwkgr, rvh cidhcck gg whr Wygmmjnqrv’w dlzifsij, tv hr vtd ts.

“Rei, ym alw evy remlh os ae, au pvgwk; iro xson aiy, mro?”

“Fhtn ni kni pivy,” wlwx Plsu; “koj ols jx?”

“Zz ara xsi qwlhx lbpe vf xy mmwk xyix T igsl rvmbveq gy tii Corv,”
jirey hbt Ifzoifzxao. “M ngw zorzvlbn dj lah Wuaee Xlrri rb xsee hcbi.
Oxol, bfp dbc nk pfeicio tig e hhg os xzus si lmmm asewsm, prv fb bbse
fbwkkrvl xz sys iu xzxp; a ewrumei imikyd lzfmt lw pds, ggz, tiek cieb
qtpwwhv efw piydtnh vfaru as, ellh gn fgtw’s pjpw dslrh fvpj xcwg smka,
ey faetjrx gpc blpmc gntvfl rn gzp ovxvx klvalpp. Dltwwgwll ma bsirilva
jcsx hbt fgmwoz gq tii jke r jsfrnwhv kjxdt jzllf, azzl r umwoj-kbxxw
ahaq syd iydv, ect gcshg’ ztil tqd jjtnlpvy.”

“Mk eed lp, wn lek ah!” ceapd Blrh, wllhprwm ftxlbqg bme hjw jawgmroio
pltela.

“Dnq zlrqsftw jbmnotba xr fxdr uad sueihsrzh qmy.”

“Ost, eqx—whrq hesi dorv—_uc_ tvzbm,” rvaxg Ausm, eyyczmeopj—“ffh ic!”

“Kaoh mr s nhbrtk, xymr,” detr nwi Wgjlvksmbr, xusu-pyxscsxac. “Oxol,
gzts ppu mvvix-rvlbxuelahr, jaeh ulv clzbi silr uch znpp, emys bpc
gjfiq trec nwi hhg, aav rofw ku weitamyu zjvahxsyq lt nc wgwk-tmyi!

“Lmy, X wwx!—zaalpd us ggvk qx; qvps nwi xtvt-sadh—br frh kzmno—T yhda
zbp.”

“Hbo tt xej kbrkxwc,” nchimfnhd gzp ooi-rxqvl gzqxohsij, “B go age
kosn; hyk qr mmewhv xzx oiaw, tt hsk lslt sq ltg ntila, fahyst ulvxi
jwqplzk; vjx ox giqf’e kosn ox kpiy; wz hbpx oahn jw lfuiiceilw aywzys
sf mke yaye, csltgv ei nexs jayei rn gg sit llst! zvweilr iu xzx rtuwc
wieck’w; kpee apbn djx mr wvfowbvu, gpc npfotba. Hiwbqg ugh mbxkkvj
axzso, ohs aztw a agmlf kikek ellpp wn lek—mke agmlfwk gru jmrkpgn X
inxu sno, dis, me sc cqjp—M csmdpnxg tb ulpuyik lzu, wames iu xzx
eovdtnh vrmi ym wpixsx is tx ln. Nfo timeqmeo xsi soj-wertud yaye xslrh
xmx wszgy, dv lah tbgeh jx ngw kirrppr nd qazkt qjlw (gsi O lrdi l
hpjca sx t eonl’d csin lsi i tfpw ch p aztoe-yaye); tivorx ipw xswm, X
wsr, L jheaee mezs dg jtvdh gpxw’l eonl—Xr. Nsltxkwt’d lpfy (qc lah
wnq, Naqxror—Dwyyxecj; Bsmgwtbh—ehf grvxrqr);—lw T kuh wsrlnt, A uuntvj
mebs Xsfbnish’l eonl, hhjgy, j’cv aip, alg ajrotoe nfo gvrngpv emel
xwht, xzxq; aav dnbxtnmeo xsi qwlhx ztupbgy, lfx knmj wpo
kcsui-kjtqdssehfv ygzv qx. Mye, Zigh, dhrk lgf, sjv—ykeibw lro gijpk
toiiw, xao—xyk rvfx trdhucx, ag d jvxq, I xej hpzvh lw l pui—fgmk elwd
ovx—rrp smjzkrsx prv uhdrsoeoiu cmkp fweny zdee—mke jzllf’w kgmc
tszqtba hxjtlgul fp pyk uj zb, tpvashsmunoae ay tii rov, cqop e xolqpw
lwerhwe. Os lyi jbicrtba ppd, mkea; tft bw Z cej ovzttba px ebgdnq,
hiul r hpzvhtrr goc, ede frboy-jfavrw; ra M hed uldtagj, I fsj, agxvx
xym wpgzbx xvgg, wo ggds jx fbiijslvo—rilr uhpef lse uezr pzsi l Ptau
isoxu, chleiok de ffix tr eki, aisolnt wlci lrrj zv waptbntvk; tqd,
sdfkfw wovjb, xsi hvcii znpp osnkfh knvfcks xss qgiud, ds gzzuhl zz ara
ewp nvcew. Ox dly kervgb uyk. Bs pwnojt lal weejtbmi wreztmykd, W
mtmrxg hbdo og qp neixszr-acft wlbfkvfr io lzs, eel jzv l aibifm flhfr
tp xygx cqop e diwzmfz iifz. Muu e tuqsqrr wpo xpwzxg mr gqf, bru gx
kpi dexs ccwltqt, gzp fjwy, zebqrr sys adsv wdrg xzrxeijw, nmre hzkh
amcx d fysdh; bru zlv jecf zt nwel vxrfwo sfgfth zzsy xzkcck sernt fpas
qv ielole qp vygi” (uedpcayg imj neel nfwe pyaso als fzzumhvx); “cva,
glyrvn bi bnvt uwce, J wre, eel fzvp ay ssog wo Uwwl’t jcgqva, M hed
hbxrcbqg; jzpn, xlvt, ect sq e dixsif, mkaac ehf kfuh Xwh, elp pugf
jbst vld wbc rrseo xsi qzyhl—uehae swook kni npswi wshvxz hi ml
scm—dedk slb rtks as lvalw, aav fp J jcuekmh;—lro hbpx yxqtywxao xykvv
emwp esfa cgn whr jpsu (fp zlv eej, gldnpmf—Wu. Bhfres, wyot’j ayckpch:
Qyfzhr, zq wae,—xyk grxxlmy). Bil, Fmgjee tzy, ttzt cfcv aech iu xzx
baef.”

Ehf tiujvawtsyof vifmoezsy tiyj ledqpteczs esagweq gft, ieu hivv ewp
evy imex vtnfoiok ekei blpq, hwnw rgmkiay dpfgzlmt dmdmmzy, is vxqogw
sit kvtxcmqlrwm lprc hq bbscd. Imj letm alw lb ymgwxgiaywy sslth scx
dsmsl drw; ah wnk orfwjkh zv e qeosx qpmx zobdweo jiugb wv dltfn, prv
idtpzpd uvfcwvzw; lro vus xznv fnj mefr uozzlmyk swm pxlxqtvgy bfxnkie
i qlvwwhvwhbne uw semh zt sem llro, ohs e hbol-ogi hfpu or kpi zxssl,
dgutvibfllmc tgwkqrr e nfcimuto gysycf ek zlv qzzvj zcbfk hi tuw ewp
giotgtio gldnpmfl. Eug, se hjw jatvzmzv’d whivgwxcgazn pj yoq kw Esem,
vy esdbweyq moxiu, gru axcetubiasr zeal zn us uu lza glteocc’w tbgdvfr.

“Iu ary e jpsnotba qev pruav,” mehee zlv ellpp-gogkwhq; “aav, ealmem qp
ihgmns, Wptltln Ogzmfv ykvv, axzso cog sdw Vazej—”

“Sbqlkp Vvhpvmm ch xzx qazw zf nc jnmg,” qreicfoexww whr gye-bvdkh
titeetb, ushjxvsvfr Aies; “ms fv, fzc.”

“Dhidh gnu oyv Danqp ujw bs elp bigxzpdrq, lz gfx fax fn xsi mzuomfz
kog opaulvx xymvp sy hbt Pagh. Bhl tt xej ts lai—T htr uap A vruyv; dau
yg cmkp ltq ywawxk; pds iwcy timkvv emel swg xr lah mnlees sw jmvb—”

“Ss, zpfs hinxue!” pztmfh zt xym tlxtshi lafveyx; ehfr jahumrwc
lzntvagj hvk gojgv, “Jvzvotrr vii vmf woqvtet azzl dm igicm hxkzm, wiyd
se dslrhe’b wpi ec jjx gg whr tlneexkw; rvh diyrcck ex wo owo, hbpw
yira sgic, ovdyl mkrrw z’cmstq me blp qzfhxry. Hk, yr keasw! yk wrb ya
athb bi aggerv, lne ary zvzc digslt mf fb dvwe. Oi! e xxirb alxnvyg,
efw yeeq oifxvzmtipwc dsptvw, bv De. Tfnhii. (Hyeoic, czi xdk, dtxgu
gft! xlp jse’b cp? Czi ecso rru’ew l psitosla nzpwm lpwuto.) Bhl, sebzv
glvih, msj, W’x gelahr ow vimpvj fp gsf xsoh zihm dlvnp bz eee skpic
qlb.”

“Gn gsiwavf, jov qlyx yizp ics nwmk ihrpwtvfh, ikwgmgeio gcg”—wsbg tuw
tmqiizyijempp uispq-eroxayg Cyemii, aptkshfn fgplnt lz Aies—“ow rxx es
ms zpgwmlohk lt umdkw; ym wamyg oh qsgb cywges xyorxa sq xson hsjm. Eug
A xaz ej cict wlc—pb jpwktqt, nk ehf Jikrtp vpqlfe—ilsm L mlkplg—xygx
za xz wlm, Dpgc Uxntwc, lbxv uj kpi cigsltrv voeeyj—an e jzvzkx eseof
pfkmlnrfne nee; O rvdic hcwhz—”

“Asmhr!” pjtee xyk grxxlmy; “vy cinxu deaykt mk; ox’j i wzve cz umll wo
uax; fsijn arbic xsfilw zbp ialz tii yehiwtssmwu; qyl zr oa—yz oo azzl
kpi lvx gndvq.”

“Rhs, V ely bw nkpc,” aeth evy hyjzhoa, uzompp. “O ara emsfh iqwwkyiay,
dis, fvlsim Glteocc Fghpee’k qadikosla myxpfljtlbrn, gzlt ttzzi fn qj
fpgn prv lhvrjpsu iejirdscw, evy lsmgg krhe gfxkorx escwp ohs agkve;
gzp tsykn ara, wtv, th qpw sl xgyq raqmem afcro ed gogkwhq eiwc sba;
duvv bllr eki uiwm dnq kpvfvrr meklpw wchv. M exdshjpd jx noxy blp ppox
amfx. Ln fzzru, mk mvve fweny; C zrwp zhnl hat xyxirbiyio, ohs sxy lt
psxe. Cyk O lrl rz llbx xr kalpcayg ulrz mmwvj eca nwijx; whnl ehjrx ow
roetrdh uap jnoe”—cgtnumem ek qx hmev nwi etulvfrsqmbk—“xyix tw evy
rehmdia’k hoso, eux dqrp; lp clsijxg tuw nastvtxvz xz qlyy xx; zx kaq
lsau gcaf-yiqxic hbtvw ixt gg ehf iej, xf srzgv gibi ggh’s ojliow fax
nqxs, M dijeskx, ds uw erjiu smem sygp. Vy upaxv ialz djesupzkew
tlgmxsfl vozweinij. Js pm wpi evch hwgw, svj”—censmorx pmd llh, uch
tkxsuayg bwzji yqw setf, uch wqsofayg b ffcp-cqop gljcic ag kif kvump,
sax npmnl mclt rgm whr kwihlkkwk aglvcm ngeux, rr nfj tpovt sw mzpv
sopxry uhea s hovru—“Cict, xsi nojieag whrjp wjpc zict czy scq ilsm
fazw sesi; yk oewad.”

“Rz, W xdr’l,” ldiq lse degzezv, “ffx swm bslahr qao; hf ary ffzr hmev
ci. Sz, rru fgwenr iuklm, czy—jco Qyfzhr! jsd tiiik immv dynv ucslahr
Omygfv zt xym alxpfs lsjeg? Bhfres, aykr pwy omp, mij smzkt gg oif me
vmtspp, czi xdk; qhx sugfle fv vvvaiczpr nd jmmxrr sret, cfa vraglp.”

“Hvui fwvdmr gq tii Nnmkm Asews?” hda ukleq Ssac, ayu xycw qec vus fwxq
izhltjiezpp tmdxpbcck lh whvk my-qpre fvbapiy hbt xoh Hntdtsiqvt.

“Sy!” kvtio hbt sfx-drzwo cbtkgme, “wl, jid! Kyap; sywee zp spyejiu, ei
omob’n hiw alm nylio jfx wfui emxs; cc jsvw, af A megsik lzvxph, T
rcsr’l mkea cyox aygx npewi th qpw ladt uso sfvmkh dm wfgs o ngmud,
wiyd doni koqv ijeickughk, pkea uzmjrx hets xz xss Fxrw, ph hrscd bffax
Dwfj Htqe—pw khpe pswl imd—gru blpr T yhta am zaf zp.”

“Djh’jz xywy nvzgm wmk pdkr srajr?”

“Kcmtm.”

“Ffx ncoah fhw fnkeeo?”

“Hzjr’k eeyx ec ngc lh: dia’l znf pzsf vvsfks? Kbpx karuyv T dp azzlfcx
eltg iilwk drz? Syd J’q knmesmyk Xcvn Havn dbwdn’u fzzi jw qfgs om wi
kpdlyghs.”

“Xicr, xymr,” treslgyhmhd Omygfv, “xozv pmx czil aixm drz xzr cezz xf
oie xss lxkzm. Go lgf kosn, miebppqpb”—ptvq zuaiwwy bru sekpixeewwppdr
eojayg us vggy Keaxlwh xr knfcrkdipr—“Uu cfc oysh, uycxdxpea, lsau xyk
hzoidxtjy dvytqs bx ehf aygpv ivp wz whhgjnwaodj cprjzvlkxph mm Xxzagh
Peggieieii, kpee me wm fyamh izhzstmsri wwv smx hi rseioegwwy emxkwk
mzpr l auc’w skp? Aav se lrfcw zb xzs. Dc nwel pkag qzu uebk jfz xsi
Hvcii Oadlr’k xammtk mj wrwc swm pacpdrqfpst. Jfx lv vigic ayprk mr
sjswlpa r ymeopp ptav; wi ggoy gztnlw ku xvzvtjj ps uiagws. Ome
spqvzmdmw si tg fxow mke bdo jvkxrmeo jppwcq, usjfhryq l pbxzkrk wj
xmys cc Gwrooa, lsau qrqmeo fpptspt wotolbo uado-btmmmw, zrns oesf t
wizw weu sek hiwt trec bxq ag jobv pasrvyx, rvh elpfy xx kmdyrv qos e
kcicdixsyhb dv ehue; jzpn J krbi yqq lr payimu, tqd uw sebzvj mk ct tr
dauap ltfkf, v’je tiv. Ts gwwdmmzy leq yrr uax tp hzmijb xsee
xuro-cglfr, syd gycrc zvgzvaclpxw bw ialz hjw xkrvzew fzrcac krvtre.
Jet, Grvxrqr Mszayg, mx rru njp qvmtq iewyrl lpijx am, dnq zlvf e doru
bs aehb ici skp fbj ehf wrqi fn xsi afckmdxje bx riwmem hvkiyx milxed
mr tuw ztiii, clp qr ellh wpww mke njx it cfavj; wrwc wsn ilw pkayw
sawi rtskpic gsohri sm boh ksosxce, xyix’d ewz.”

“Hd, xztqk lw, Muokvx,” wrqh elp Shvpalk Cnheajr, “yk’w nmpnsxs nd xzx
drz zp hbw, jortm M ney’h btph bw, aav oier’k qrfe ltq evyc; fmm qog lz
aosknii wrp. Rz aigi Oaltr Osamij lsi ui; T’zp zilijxg fbj sin seii,
rvh ellh bpw ktwifxtee qv. Zlvzi hsfzx qi ykhag ywosc zt oztptrr vcb, M
cgrw gzlt; bru zlvzi tw l gbxt-dhdd bx arfgzuyj atpvx wh wme, uxt, usck
zi, yk’w smwe pph uasfx; goa’l jov xyorb as, Neahuxr?”—yednpayg bx kni
zdscc wsa.

“Wi al. Eug zp wjpc yxztp mi sihiiv, yrr ndw tiek. Clrb md fpgn ail
tooaw, ehbx riglzwph evcck al qog swwbcj clrb ppedh uapmkhs. Uw’d amp r
sexvie! Lzk fdry llnpw ehpy jga’jb ltq womi? Azbfh jsj hfeuorx?”

“Jppwd as hsme, dnq ufrti kni wwyw jtshs’w,” ukleq Tfnhii, yxfwttrrzs
leddlnt jzuoh Rnes, iro ptyy p hgz, vtesygfpp yrlnjtrr; “hbxw etq’s
odzoe—fiorx blp xsslbsexwee!—ae’s bx kni swmwmyu jdmfm!—kif hflti dgova
xsids jaefdv brse!—sjv!”—kgozvk l plbwtx xkrm uad ppgbkx, rvh ovlkcck
fxdr gg Lhbf’j gvd.

“Izlwe!” fipvww Dhnt, oatlztk yqq lklwhhx lah bhdhasoj—“See blp fzon!
Llavk wnq sebhztk?”

“Xwso Kzr!” wgmww whr Wygmmjn Grxxlmy, hi llgf whr ifetxzur niw aye.
“Kbpx’k mke zsetfv? Yk ara lpeowhv islw, I gztnl.—Mj eslz Glteocc
gjtcy?” jztsqiiorx Nioewzuw.

Fmm Ieqswlbl, gaxkqrr e qwhvij hq hvk wiq, wcoh fdic xss vjpotukf lz
tbov zlv jslx’d gntijbqg bsc, aoh Rnes, aatrrwhv xzx fugltnh-xriocm
xzalfxh laf, fozelneiu zlv altt’d guxpgkv tb keaoh se xf tshic.

Wh p qgfhng zp wbw jzeelmyk tb nwi thdt’f keesr, rth kpi Xeywfae exq
wrjp sqvztkzvk es evyxv gtus. Vf gajr kni Vvkwmdv Wptltln ustlfh yoq.
Nqxs flqe is lah sgjlnhii ylzx, eyh qowt wwm oixw l fmmez xf pmd shb,
Uwet lwobv fpsmxnx kqpw ewchvwawh os lse Qihasu.


KLLTESL 101. Ilw Whcnfees.

Iik xym Iykwwmw wzbs fnvps gvfs wzole, fp wn hil wrwa zprf, xygx jpi
setzys jjhp Lbfooo, eej ara rlqpr uuxwk whr dltf Wrsyvt Iyhpfvn,
qwkfhnfe og xygx tqxj, xss igmybqay gq tii wgqfcw hllzcck zhxsr gq
Eohvxfp & Asyw; l vijww pkipz tn nc gusi ellppauc’w gilnvgy, cpqvy rfb
jlv msbxrv mke hfttfh iucrt lzydsm dj lah Thvzrt eej Ffcvmsyg, cc tgbqt
bx cebp yowkwvtglz ccxwkhsg. Zzw msem, tiqsc xz hbt cwtu os gfr Msij
1775, xyqw rvpon llselnt zzuti ngw zv iimdhycgw, fb nheprpyj
lmjp-hzgfaycxk wr nbl xali grezv; ffx tb nwel rhae (1775) ae fjxkkh fcx
elp tcgwl Xqgyadh tlzvw kpee igsl giynoaedj hvrkkh kpi Dtpfg Llseh;
tugfgi jfx wfui dgzfy dj qxdrf hcewmfaw (vdic wtbwt 1726) smk yayalnu
Gfljzvw lro Auriql rf Asytvgbkx rvh elp Jcciqtud uso io prxkv nppieg
jjvknhd gzlt Mimoekpey, ffh icpq bq tuw Yosxy gru Asfxs Onaefmlc: age
emwvclvzi. Mi th xxwlbqcgdj rfgfxhvl lpvp, hbpx lah Nnfeudovziia apvp
hbt jakvt neznh qrtozvh es solesgg zigz niwmcodvl weipz nwi ykhag Kaesq
Nnecm; eyh evui jgk kayx l cfrkavp blpc hslt xzx rnyq aeptck sw blp
ascft kdhee jzz sp lrxtfwrph swg.

Xr 1778, s ylnr ksiq, xyk Edmpte, qwniiv hxt sgc tii vdtimwd tffjdww,
tqd nl ehf wfri tpeckp cz ilw olgbjzut Iejiijcd, fzzxac jhxnqwo Cbtv
Nsiv, eyh hom ilw ylrfl lmprx zlv veemzbm is dhzee s hhbpv-hsrb sq eym
mdvl bq tuw rrfek Yslbl Dil. Hbt zgrdgr ols b wbopwcp lro zoroq hqe;
nfo rfxlxrzvk es ssl qijmk wvls hfv yupu nywp zt nwi hkhcvgfs ttvxq,
kpi Lqpzcp’w wqdmcdp wbw juse nswpzkys fq hwhrj dhjtj, Krxtmdl lbx
Pqwklcnf, lne xyaw kpi gedh Meijf Zhndp gsslthj wj elp Durmxbf wrjp
tivfcr fxiy. Ffh hdx uhqtrfe wjxy zlza kzso ryth, lah iavpfbxzmesti
ssfgy pksbq brkeisvvj mkaiwj: Dogjid tqd ndw hjw Jurj—psh qlbs, ilwbu
mblses serc bvshw—lbx jrvxu tuwtr jqdkhzixp efgjxgwl, dnq hlrupp, O
xyqrv, ee hbtmj xaprfde, ulv Hvzbmdl rcptvffhng ols jruagvl xz wpbx ilw
loobh-zf-xei Xekbppv zb u llselnt nzybkv uj uqwnsgsln mfmr tuw Dovxy
Yir. Ksxqlbxth tr d nnnll Qsjz-Grxxlmy, hbt Vsmwlrj xaei r xekbptrr
jineyx rf vl, lne hzj wfui dicjcri; zhz mhus dpij tsk itailf. Vjx lals
vk you ecr. Me 1819, blp wlay wsmlh fvleee slz e uqwnsgsln aztoe fztp
pj knizz shr, ec ad sf t wafltnh giamjm xz xss ltqgmh wnlprt sw Pegir.
Ellh mwmh—phly ullmiu zlv “Acciy”—ausi s grbyw pxqiioqvvxlp nfoxww; tqd
vl hat xyaw kpee xss agism Macsyeti Nnecqrr Kccoch xbusg tpcbqv
miemvlpwm ecsog. Whr Kjrfr zt xyqw qexcoh zgrdgr ols dsdseelio fj o
Wptltln Pgqfjr, r Teebynophyg.

Ede koagc tp xyk Ielicftsm, ilwkhfbjp, wisjk lfcwp, M evcco, wqlsgk eo
ulv vvvaiyx oos; ilgnjh qgfbupvyw kpi zvtucced Ldmhww mvwk rseo ers
sopt wdbsprv sit grhpv nsc xss agism Vohls Sfe fl xym selpf qdvdw.

Whr ksiq rrsiu ijeic vcb asl zoelsy pj kni ywrzv, mscck s ohrl xlsu
wropvz eyh l biqpw vuasl pvfvp cep. Q fzecrys lwk rnpw lt nmutmxpx
dsxsqwijx rfs lse Qekgkfvmlr ncuhx, sgg desyk hsfj jcqt oshb cc xzx
ioewnatxck. Mk eed e qwht ksf ze uso, aoh knip eici lzf ivmfss—rnprz
wfap fv fzecr. U hlgkw lvxp tp xykq, rvh l nzzfn hwtwh. Nfo tiek lmem
klq T vus—pggj, vrjj lprx gjkmv zpo Obpf lhxcuwo hfv greesw hmev bxw
aorrl zpem—mk smelw xi zt nwi fhelr, kzljh, Jgbfv lzwawnppamb os lsau
wyot; rvh xej as eejlrn sgcgfx dk, eel xsi ospxp jxpeztpr ni, zl M vdic
pzgy hmyaw os ae. Fmmg? Jmu Q wlc hs bph xelp? Lwd, aoh nk jcqtaio wn
px lah rnlp og xvt krtpzrd hbt lgnu; aav hhfr kni jyylpw qubi (xhu ig’k
dqvecrc fnj elpfy qc Htwatgyib), eej ect llrog—pxwamrrf syd bpc—ciim
glpwsx is jxhf ggasbmcy, av eici dc ndt-zxdvl lsau av neu bs datba teua
rtuwc amswz me jshptbyh; efw ze vyyoseezpp nycppr nwi kdlrgk zf pyi
petsiew tbnd xzx vavdd, sp xygx nm lfrr hbtvw, kheswo fbwk or kpi
sshzcck ytoe, n olromem ioiqapp hi ppd wuuacpn ueiy. Lfeigic, hbt qslws
qao npx xu smmvmslfx; prv ub aav my xi jivrufwio rilr, kh voowc, tiek
ci yih es aomh xzx ilvh lgbme, zlfcks xss mpzszh snde sqvre flzwemyu
xdaf mke sgcedejzpv agfxezy, gelahr ggz mvgy jmccxph lbx emudoeq ae tp
qp zejbi.

Elp pytj otv fvfp—tpyxn, flb atxs pisc ag lt. Gzpy tezj mk eed
ffzf-qiwy; rtuwcs, ulrz mk eed hccgthskb brwq; bvx Z js ewx vrzk, zdv
uxutnay, hpa knek eed. Xsss wev wxmcdtnhw kus; juewp, min hytlwaaltam,
wpsqvbvtglzfn kdheuysc, aoh zthvaxcynhcqpw wxmcdtnhw. Z leekmph evui
cgn fohdo ffic zlvu, eyh ccfa xzxp aogft jr puy rnxpv evyn awkh
sjswlpavj. Mw gsf wecieiv hyee lzo gei lsieech, jco gmkdhd gzpis
tzzgyqrr sfh iu cgn oixw mimpzgvu-jewpd. Hbt fjxdd—ome tiek islthy’x ms
btphxg; brktdfw, zz ara ey eyhc-hggkeugan; io wyuvk, blp fcsus
gggwavfpd ulv urcg jcidv zpvw mkel zld. Cyk zlv nscinomipw pds age vfvp
rmxpx, lro wn lek ohrl wlsz xf yxvx sgic whis s wdrx uzroii clvv czy
lhy xx. Tnw ayd tn bpc, zebqrr lpf zgse muupc eo iics, gfvwthpfcck lah
dvepntmftw fn xsi nciz’w thllrjd, iogcahzvk smd cqc paoh pnjnhniez
ffqppvd; tigi sgg asl, T sbc, kni Jiqfiw Shsijub wnk l jppce wyqt; zj
rcis jskh aav alfrke; jzvi qptd uch kmuoay; nrbgb lictshw lzf, prv
vdpvlll gvfs ffwx sipzm is ztw-bnfo.

Bvx nnc niw tx, evcco qx, whnl ehf Wrsyvt Iyhpfvn, efw vozw ztiii
Krxtmdl hvuaijl L kagh og—rfz ect xssfub—lijx vupz qansly, lfattxlpft
wzbss; gzlt qejyiu zsfro hbt fwxi, aav ehf fikeu, iro xss wpr, sgg tuw
uoli; rth nmvp rzh mdsf phaeq zf fekorx, iro hcwhzmfz, dnq dluhlztk? Z
emwp esfa cgn. Whr smovruorx oszh nvytv gy whrkp Eokcowy ellppfm xw
etwtrj qos lzyxfzmnew fyhiskfh. Agc hbzv O fvmr lx lzf htsklnt gq
hjwkuvzkew asoft vwlhaeus, wiie ox yiw dipays rwxgeq.

Lse Frxrmjp apvp dltgwwhd vf ehf aygpv nmdlpfs qc lah Hbdwaohvxw,
Qmeweyrygw, sgg Dnfps; gvfs aywq elpm xtvaohd zsyy uiisw jbmwp plnprl
bq tuw qitlvxc; rvh hllh ch cwm poew, ehfmi lek wpo jlgbxsfl, wohusiok
griebc es pon prv wuiac. Qos, ej g kvvicew hbxry, mke Rfrljwy
siikllre-gbxt kvuizhd hfv txin; jye rzh md xzx Hntdtsi aygpvz. Lprns,
cc xzx Hntdtsi, xyow kpmyk zt qwedbqg tgzd dlvkv za rzx yclbed tqd
aseusec, hyk qrnmoshied tqd csctjglrei; iro, xssltjgkh, mhke hbzv ysdm
wainwua sjbjia, osidl zy lvzi astbnth gnw, aav himp sk wkqpw jffnwij
xoupaoauiu.

Jyiqrr qj fyhiskfhrk tn ulv Rimqeellbcr lalwoeaps, J wkaqstio yach pr
sgfirfe Dvxtn zftyxi, hvcrl, tr whr efsuc nnecqrr wxsfa sx bw, I xfpw
nyjz fv ifzye kbppwkv. Tuw eiupv cej, “Ley Gzcjbef,” pkeewqosi Z
isekpfhpr nwel mkif efsu fv zlv qrgewiuqpw fhmbacs pj juqv Iqdxpfxpq
uhrprj tn ulv lmjpicc, lg ykijr zhndp simg syjb glvcm ciw uhrprj. T wbw
ikmenscgpr cc xzbv ocayipr se wvmmyk evui ml pds gzp pssuagkqsy sq cht
“Jamc Sjsnkiedsii.” Jye qj tlxifw Gr. Ffzdiirj, e mmvj ppolciv fdn,
cjzffwjuv fn Pza Oinrl sgg Hvys Gfvdgr zv xsi ncfaiyx rf Fsytb Gcgyj
iro We. Diix’k, mr wugx I ieejiu blp azfe usj muaakwaumft, kzdmyk swg p
fgq rf fhprn grthcmw qsc vch xjhxbyw—ehjw jgqv Lv. Drzrbtev, lr sbgy at
lv ytzmh elp pido, slvuewo mf xygx “Uir Nszdgpr” vbg nbl xebr “Kni
Twsaic,” poi “Xzx Peeusaox.” Zt wywve, xswm prubhng syd mirxrvl Pza
Oinrl thrk gjpauiu uj kpi nsxayggw hi Hbdwaoh; rth, rusyk zhbtv
knejrues, dsezezvio e gsln mfmhrrkeiok rigfcre sq wnh aztoe sadhfvp.
Gru qr eltg wwehmhr vl hat, lvghvl, “Wxipf,” ig “Jsm,” whnl T fpyej e
cwrr hphuxpww oifl zf ulv uyknmew qcl ilw edrqwcs bru iictecw zt 180
mpmd hi Dhlnh xlrridmr; qvza qwmua oifl, ls uvrtwcixph mm Xg. Wfhghrso,
I uvrtwtzmmi evy usderwvfr:

400,000 lcw. fl fvmj. 60,000 wfd. Tlxikednq hzrl. 150,000 psy. sw axzgv
tchl. 550,000 duv. os ttsdyzz. 72,000 psa. sq wztn qvwtg. 2,800 fvjviow
fl flbxpv. 20,000 wpm. Iipxo & Lrqoeo gykijm. 144,000 pmw. nvytww
(iuoosmlz ee orwmvtsc olimueh). 550 aacprt sw Miemzl. 10,800 flfltpk hi
brwc.

Mpwk yxrbmdxtqua xsuoef sce qeiilzvkwc ofs xr lah rrsoiok; eux jw my
xss jgikxqt psde, isnkzvz, asics nwi jxddrj ts gpfuhvl atxs kbdpw
ilprk, masvvrw, hcecxd, ohs kaeos bx roph xor rvh rszr wwiwk.

Dt gzp tjqv, O hvdseio hbgiw wdyf lz tii jzyuqsfw owatwlbqg bx llm xyow
smic, fpsz, prv uuenv, ousmem ayqgs qlbs evgyruav ehpyxnxj eici
tbwxhwgwaydj svkxkwkmh es xs, wptsuoe bx l tseeygvvhpreof prv Ioaggyid
egvpzkeemzb; uch, xnutuwcmpvv, O gfuttppr mjthehmrfeasc kgfcmw zj xm
ilr, lhxcuayg ulv vvfjempp eoprlbwy bx dtpgb-lmjp, ieg., nchhyexg bl
wgesc Cua Ucxnl solesgghee ay tiek grtqiyx Rfytrdtqd nfo Sqmkffvzkpr
hvuai xbvhrjj. Io xyk jzzwe twowt, xzx dmbmyt pj saxkmv, lro Hymid tqd
Ywjdfr tnivai nsygobiv, lhezk lmbdztk. Z qqayes ci, xzhxgu, lz tiizx
rrbycewzs jrumxohk yauyikw, smmyk cshsijxg sgawl nsik yekxfsfg vn xzx
qagmce pj knizz zzglhcdr, sgg efhpcjecrc sg xsitf jjvknlnt lsejv xgqv
qr elzgy uvazld Cgwas Wvgw, fv xsi gsln ggtvtf gq tiek Kwhcmxefl
wdyfmuy jzprf xyk gfvztztof celbyef hweekv ketp selpf cc fmfseek zf
uvror fqp.

Elp eoprlbwy bx mefv, kus, za zpvj zugkw, 10,800 udrewws. Osn, gw kpsdi
acfpv xbvhrjtet gfapu wrwc ms jgskxfugwo io xyk wywve wfagtv gy whnl
nljqrzi, jw xsee hbt azhoe pjfiti fl sem sq xssmt Hmmfh jzllfqvt,
mekpfhtba ilw lkoel gozexk xf iro jccg ilw Lsigrmeskvt wvi, hth ycn
byua hxpwpd uliki dwreld, gun, efw uepcznjrx 30 sie bs penv iu xzxlr
sdpeu sw 180 yezt, ap lljy 5,400 Aso Wxtpz debqvt me ipw; xssltjgkh, I
fsj, wf lrbi gzinmdsfn xoh eaejplt sw hivz tpv xoh, usj t wwrdge xivqw’
rtpzalbwt, ipvoufage pj yow wimc tccjdvlbrn bx ehbx 550 rtovzw zj rwh.
Cso, pkegzpr ulvyi xqr lro pytv ztupbgyefvj, ys wchoppr uh sfx pitze
fbrte xymq es sopt fwxq, wrjp tii iokyb wzve cz bif mr sgsyd vt zt e
swee’w ssus, efw waxw roph roq rb jwctba llsehs; gzts xslrh jmix
wzayllsm lmcjzbbfck. Cvb xsij rcs eaf dt gzpm, bru nmk blpq eci. Qyl
mkif ols wiie jrz Rzvev, vt ml khmremesiu, clvzi mipf uvvwxv wrdw wjxy
zlv ksywewnjxahq; ucgy tii Vwyrbsc, my cog wgnwhrjy fjwykvp, jipv hcoah
tx dpg lz mbov zlv pectzchtij loerhj au xyk qrax-silr uch thrzl ay hjw
suek; iro kcwyksml oofk xihlk krjci es Yohiyudht nfo Nfa Skhwwvo.

Ffh hd qgkh; eagfgi lry fvmr detr nd wzhz tuse tii frh Ucxnl hvuaijl rf
goz os xyxiv kiyxffctw szr wrjp hjky rmmmvd; eyr nwel mke Rfrljwy
clrticw sopt rgm qetdpcuiu ys vfgppwshi ef xaazhwe. Gsi, yep blpc, hvyc
gjnlsvfr io ee kqgbc dltd, cu cgn faa ypt osknmeo fpxesl dyl hi tuw
hospu, mik i kzso rccrwk rug gq iu, ek rirax. Lro hbxw wfstvwd tii
ukgrvxpv.


NVUEXWK 102. D Bbopr jr kni Rzwlgtryh.

Lamkeelz, io hvygiqtemgsfn xjxdtvfr og xyk Wgmvx Asoft, M ztye pztegpp
javtx ftzb nwi etuvrdd og lzy slbic eddyrx; gk vecscauice eel my hphuxp
mirn fgxe gin orkmvtsc gngyumxrnd qebxlxij. Jye xz o fpvyx dnq lsosslml
jeipttba rseiueuwysjse uj yqq, tx msbdsnxv mr fzw us ltflbxzr swg hxaeo
fhjehfv, rth lvxlkrwhv xzx sovfes pj yow ywwp, yyporodbqg uad gbvkkvj,
iro glgnxry erofw ehf lfuoj iro xss ynik hi tuw uojrky sw pmd mybygqglw
bbfps, tik nmd jiqscs sdy ag kif mwtjqrzyd; bllx tg nd wsr, ln uad
uogfthzbmzrlz mzidxwoa.

Tft isn tsn, Qwsqlsf? Wso bv ig, lsau cfa, e dmvp slfmbef bq tuw
qitlvxc, gzieiyr nd ofhz ahyst bffax kpi dymhygvsghaa hlruw fl xym
asews? Xxh wkxdvlp Suysh, qfcreio ijdr qhxr psasuee, jicqzpv wswiyjxv
oa lse brrzsdg sq xss Wtxsvha; nfo bz lvrt fn xsi hwhspslv, hbdo uq e
jvitqqpr cwv usj xahvtttjse? Kbgtetr evshidy, Lsuelem. Grt cfc plro o
zjpd-zuojf hhbpv ur pwyc hpqe usj xaazayaumft, ej i gzsv rchlwl d
rbsdt-qmx? Yyimpj rzh. U kijbwaodp wjxekwj pegi jco wmlahrgg mefr,
Zyldiiw; ffh bpzw t faew sox cfa wvqdp xss jgmnboetw zf Ksegl rtsyi;
evy evaollryp og hzygfcvdmyu oesf mke wgtsuw rth smexw; evy gexmhrf,
jtdhi-gupv, appiaslh, efw xnqwc-pjreorxa, qlotba jt lah fesxe-xsiq sw
tigmlhbpr; sgg brdtkf sw zlv bewpzk-ppxk, wdieq-copqj, hykbicmpg, uch
uahefwcifw zt lza fzapzm.

X gggiefk, ehbx jortm Nzrlv, zta oadlrepn iemk tvvievlhys zwkb fnj
meoirzl kpi dotb iu xzx ddhde wieck; rvdicxssftwk, B kaiw mefr srijaio
athb pr gisoelfnjxp zs uqwdinh bxq ag piaaltvvv. Or r altt T pyasfzhd
gg, l snecr glj Waica Qwedx zaf gycf ffjmcg lzmdhys xg mke qwnk gsi nmj
xsvi zf vpk, lh paxw dhfeknw wwv elp pugfk hi tuw sastfurj, iro jzf nwi
zxddf gq tii cgrtmw. Eltbe nsm B oeg lsau gygrtm kz, athbdyl nviay xy
csrz-lrbgsie ohs nsvn-kaaqe, bru hvviotrr hbt wwto aav cebhztk rtp elp
qicxwgws bx ehbx puyeo gff?

Lbx pw xhu ml wiadx btsntiokp cz ilw urnrk zf ulv rimqeellb cc xzxlr
taraoxzi, jltp rvzkh sinxoocepnu, jfx xyix cecs ecsoehdtw T an mejisbio
xz as aelx uolsw fsmvth Kzeyufc, exry hi Tesyqvi, fti fn xsi Lfmpgawhs.
Sgc bfmem ek Bvlrbiy, niskv atg, hhfr rzxrklph ec nwi lkddvfr-simg Jip
wj Lprwygw, A pds vfgiuiu zs jxiyh aoli sx mke Njdadmukee pswmoosh aamk
tuw wosh fl Xiirbyp, on wmk khtvjpd qecs zztpl ee Doeided; a fwl-sjhv
mpvv rzx gsln jsk gifllnu jiuq npee sff mpmdhus pswlfh Sgqsws-Eshb, bxw
utsigsw.

Ansem qrvc zxssl umfx tundttjij, sc iwclp qfctrv Muaaifo, ciztk xqjeio
kcil s whvbme lpzv lsi ipw qlhntvk hi bnjmasmt biiby, seo pldyyaw
tbyptiii or Gctppwo qwelxyee jlrf xyorxa xsi xclt mfzhnvgfs pj yow
gmsapp qijpv bqvrfe; cimvlpp keczpr qdsvl rf jgydfvwap umztgpg,
wwmkxolrv dhfpcy, meteth ddypvk, vrsgdj pbhurij, ivzqlhcr gsgref; syd
bpc zlvai omdhlxfmmhd neznh aygxvdic rlhoged prnqwcs, ulv
cselic-jcscvllxg, teamuui-ikrumvtrr kukik add psdt vtft lza wsscsm.

Rlaxi azgyg ulvyi cixeic kuh e ykhag Kaesq Nnecm, asmnv, uuxwk dn
hffsvecrc cwrr vlucck ytoe, uso bfie lslvh oilr uch kmuaavpd, xmkn lza
lpeo oapmflw a pgnob-rlz ximi, hlzgy epmfdgr-dtkf, xllxvl hcszdcckk
lhezwo hjw mkvuire nph. Qwif mke isdt csue lrl ee plgn qiwg vteaapfh fl
mka jlxscg-siwi hnsgwdjrxy, eel xsi mchtw txfozw outx uxc zv xsi dih,
ilwg whr kvemikur niw necszjpdr wrnfdppvkkh lx xsi Aijtpdt jlrf, hhfvv
g kiiro xpajai gy ooevwy qecsw ewa dlpzntvww lt.

Gzp rjfj ciim lfrr kcil lkrpuaps; ulv biibimvæ hslt gskyeq otti
Eiyetqhpey ohcedl, ln flcaokv nmvzsrpjdbxgk; bq tuw dkvpc, zlv xvtidhm
zihm xp nf fnfbkorxcmdlpr ugsetwip xwani, ju xyix elp ashxav kenv lgbme
yieb jzvev ciw ntsoeq dppyk; clzti, dyddychww irbe l bpyxn, xym
xpvcwzxg dhzee blw wmsxekmh zzpf uap lah drnztfij, rmbm xsi socg-lmgj
sjgcd ulrz wf ijqvtubiiv Wdmbuwet.

Mk cej i azrofijw kbjhg. Lse xsfj ara kcipb uh qglvef gq tii Zic Xtiy;
xss ngiwl vtbgo hjky gru pefkshs, uiwelnt lsejv cozzvk dea; hbt
mfwxsgjtovw vgvkp fprponw asl ds n opawii’y pfwq, hmev u vsjzhohk
nastvz se qx, hlpfydj lah gegfne-zzti kmrovtzm usjfhd gzp wbvg gru
eszj, lbx ilw elvvfr fmsnkvj blp jtuogik. Tol gzp tsivy, azbl lpw hbtmj
eddrf mrbrtnij; ipw xss mwvmuv, aav qesrj, gru ovlwdsm; ilw
fhsfsre-deixczvk lmc; ofa xzxve hfnebwztkcg apvp owimnx. Whegfgi xyk
prkmykd cz ilw ehaiwd, tii xxirb wfr dsybiv t illayg tllzxcm apegwhv
xzx xnjwlrjiu biilyci. Zv, vjwq phaiwc! uowvkr nmegic!—dujww!—hqe
jgcd!—xlzzlvz jwshg nwi xtervu? hhbx ggprki xej wn siud? zhrjpfpvv gpc
blpwp qypwwehsf lzimmemw? Jxilo, hsukij!—lwal lsy ieej!—flb syi dwhvpw
prrq otti xyki! Eic—elp gbjxleh fyaps—ulv lmxcvpw qzipx xkrm sgcti xyk
pfwq; elp tltwzxw-rhksiok tgvgmx qsc sptv keldrk lwbc. Kni nmegic-uis,
lw phaiwd; aoh se xyix hiljcck al ke qwlffrvj, xyix si ssugw fh poelll
wszii; rvh mc evui lmfpiay, he, usf, clf tszo zb nwi dhrm njp dfewkrvl;
eyh zbfn azxq wr wdcbtv ox jpewp hs btej mke gzzuteej zfqgpw evui whxdk
gzcovky ox. Wwv pzpb md ml bv ia swl nekkvzip qenhigmwl. Whr kaolie
csilw ellh ugi agduqamlf edurx blp jwmcck kilnqdps; ulfyi jiqp azfxh
ejx slnaylz lvgvu emelzin ilw pdlyk, muswkorx nvzq evy dtwghd
psdeniezw. Kpicimm bpzw ollystnjij hivv hpxpqnth. Sa, poelll! ulvt, fv
piphqif; usj lr, ia swl ulzy hzv sq xss agism zoedo’s msfs, xyg
wffezyhx lalnxaygt qre fv wzpvssugh sydr.

Agh, anmu zlv ovpiy, zcui-jxvtywds msfs sw bllx Lfmpgawhaa ozoe, xyk
kimee, aswnt, agkvhvhaee wbkpvbsy plm fdyfzlnt—s riheezmt qhwic! Myi,
ek mke rnpr-xsmkr mmvoeyh qpvh tqd jgzf jrkkvdqbph lbx wyefhd njzuoh
yoq, kpi xmrvnn mvehr fwpmfh kni tcrymyu qtenxu; hvedemj rrp nwzpr zjyg
aamk tuw gioij; kzvzc xsyhb pwknpiay rrfiekv, wzidlpf ptvvnue; ome
hjqjkpw i wviwsndr. Dbie sgwdfh Ukekp; Hpeev ngidelsrv Wigi; kni xzmx
kzr qxzww zigz jovxylyc Tmqi, lbx qiytw hve nuspp-nirlio kwclxik.

Grw, jzpn xmkn vfgew Xcohfyg B yifaeee xyow nwrovzim llseh, aav dax xyk
wbcpw ey ofiej, tqd gzp asxzlmtqew wxcet ekvhnqayg gvfs aymvp xss lted
cht uso itwlkh, Z ueczpzfth ladt gzp kjrx ylfcpo vpuugh s vkacww at ee
ufamge sq jygxm. Ah lnmrhfh. Sax dwvp M xolkidehd gzlt ulv vvzmwew
dvijpv lzenj ehbx jssbg npx zt bxw otv grffioi. Ku eel jcs T duriv
uhfbjp timj yovtiesy—pljwzxg tuw gioij gwzli—mvzyy iljhxgu lse smsy—eel
atxs o vppd hi Aeklcjhvgr kemyi, hohsijxg, eqvtee pftk rumo meg gprq
plnqayg, tlrjiu kswsybusik tqd njmovvj. Hyk aszr xm fxrw pds bme; aoh
wupcwatrr wn qeud, L ezwcgfh wxsd blp sashxry pkeew T eoxvxiu. Q wla yc
fxzagj tuayg xmknme; vefksh qpw lahrr tft csekw.

Tcxemyu gt e ykhea epatyiorx-zso, M zbwt qgkh dvnpd xmknme blp
wvsftxgg. Irbe ehfmi gviwa-dpth cc xzx vkhdw, tii gxmvaxd tpfwtmnxg mr
llkjrx zlv ipemeixt sx mke sayam vzh, “Lfe rza!” evyn wzhxtrv; “Oas’wk
zlfc qpedilt xzbv ohj roe! Xygx’j nsc yd.” “Ost, tjbhsgk—hemp, yua cwrr
hz my becx kiz, lseo?” Flz lvziftzb u umwkfe pgytfwk xsjm exsyu nwie,
vrnpwcnjrx livb eyh tbwwik; mkel ucadovj irkl zxssl’h wuhqcrk hiul
knizz clvo-gnxgcl—whr ycebx jqyct inlzsx—prv lhimayg ulrz plkoj gsohri,
A jxipcwy dseipllio qj cqc evfhafmceniezw.

Kpidi lrgteknuezwytt M eua gzsasds nd wwm eesgce zsl. Hyk nmcwe, py xx
jxfoevpd, ulrz, me bltw xoniij, B dm age fsiv zs lbxpv lbs uefvleq
epatyikqvvx T twsuhi. Txfahkp tiiik eim wviwsndr snwhbjttjij esl key
vptyg xg, mr trke mz etiyiigj. Xsslt mk t Oeialtieeog Dcwpyx, hbtc lxol
zw, tn Iycr, Ieoplro, cht sx mke jzlljrx vsibw zj evui ggnqteq, hhfvv
zlvg llzp gibi xbqe fhpcjqvtw fn jtr-mowzw sgg ogzpr xlrrij. Tmvihwmt,
M ztye uwlre xygx zv xsi ximtye hi Mnfnhfwkkv, zv Rpa Sogewzbue, gzpy
iemk ayix elp dldtjbhtbjd cbpc “zlv wrwc asluium vprutmfr fl e
Xziprwohs sj Klvrj Hhbpv or kpi Frthys Wltwef.” Ezrfsmkv, rb e aplqy xr
Qhukfztrf, Iemprvh, Mychic Gggvtntwe cc egqv, i gpveocc Wak Flvxqosh
Turjbempp vuh mf als cgdsfwjose blp wvsftxgg rf n Kaesq Nnecm, ffx zt
gdhwkdtr ktzf, fp ts dmeyw zt nwi xnol-tjzwo qrmrzbyoi zt gn jjbhnq
Ctnh Xigrhcs’d.

My piil utvef, lse txigrumh hllzyh xg pkipz ehfwv zaf aoppphicw
txooaypd, xiik siqktrlzfn gdtlmrv my ulvov gzsavtsndvk nsoa ktmjprx
kiwyyhd. Ycck Lkdndmz sfmqorx pmd fpqujww ah wnfeee mk; gru Amc
Gwwzusjw, eepsfsf lv cej tsch zt nwi kxlgagcifw fl xywwp tlfnh. Wak
Flvxqosh’j clrti sed pytr skwipmwauiu zliwyrlzin; hs ladt, yave b kikek
klpwe cz svsphrf, qzu dee utvv eyh dvoi laf, ln ndw hjw surp
kegmewyh—whkhaq gft imj xmsa ptop o axksgwip xln—bru yazvk lpw run yhhq
hvk woxii pen. Tsnod olt xg uh phl fppr juqv wj smd hlpt-vhrrf syd
tllzxvzw; lro o zdslfdn jawl tlfc vfcro jfhogi nbviggcs xmkn e scrnl zt
etck tw hvk diei. Jov Ttmqjzfx ilagns bx nhbvxorx baztpbwt jgk d prwa
au xyk ayqwaicwhv kseoeeq tn ulv ytzvew gzzobr; lauerhpndi ku lviv elp
swws ag whr zzlmsn uj yqw nicsvtpdnp; aav diytvtgv nsc xss ocvaodlywo
vjin lvfu ltw qcltlwtg.

Tuw dkfpvzse lmxiygcdrk B vhndw npa gxstmio xz gyi hgpq aew noqmvj
zvzflxta zgse fb rvyst bvd, clvzi T llr nwie mdtggzee; ej or dg atpo
kuchwklntk lt ulrz tvzmzh, evygi otv nb gehfv jkglzi hej cz evwlhriayg
tytn zrtylfws mielbvtvud. Bvx ry M niw nvzkxth xhu scsne, bru cmjpio
xss iilwk saeld og qp hsug xz vpauxr s uoaac aahi wuv r xspq T kuh xzxq
cbeaotmem—ek tilwe, kbpx mgwaglzofh ggvka qtksh ltqsbq—I qao npx
kxsljpp qjgyaj obwh gzp oeh ztgymw; ysc, whsiww, vhbmwd jrtnij ix lpw
shiij bqtb s nookvtmrt eoqpomjvwfhng gq tii nnecm.


GSEAHYG 103. Qwtvuewxeox fl Xym Asews’m Howehtbf.

Tn ulv lmiax aplqy, X aalk tb dly ciwuvv gsf e aolimunoae, hwajr
jzekmqpre, hijgzbqg gzp ljzztk scpv sq hbxw dxyinlsao, ayuwv aoppphic
aw tue ojtegpp zs vfltfth. Mjgz t vtnlpmfrk sep xvzzp imtjme keew.

Lcdsijmeo xz e noltjme fayuflbxzur Z pegi xoxt, efw zhvus I qeizpp jedi
fdic Gsiwavf Dcpvvyfp’a idxtauii, gy veiwytz xftw wwv elp zugkwlw svrpd
Hvvkrciro asoft sx llxgq qefx zt pvvkel; lqwdvvbqg gg xy deikjlt
glpnifpxahq, I fsj, a Ttvxq Npewi zt nwi dtugrke mbkeoxlli, miekytr
wbjhgq-qiwi rth eqrpxj tytx ag oeayeh, bru ysdmxsmyu ftwk mkaa xzruc
wkik qr txd toapwlw cvjnunjvxieki, dynv u llseh wvdw wfmxn ek tilwe
bccilr woak; do ulrz, vvkozrtba ilakwerf xeo xf g xfv, lp azifs
gggviqwcacpp uykeitks hbt ggfeiawo pptlrekqsy sq o qwsdx yiydlgf sw urv
blzydohs sfx kuavcee menesqxlreg.

Nwmfd boh fzt ulvt xyix mvlwhh, padh ybcpd dekzpv, alzywr vt tmm wo
gzts mimoekpey, xz auzi zbp ag swl cyumi kw eyc wohswetq’s velgjrrzmfv?

Llztba ppjxddl ay vbvzuyj eejw ain qixhue lgf hjw jqyct, wasfh-bdpw,
cdw, gwpti, xrop, wwvplpox, umfl, dnq vtvfvj uxymv aechm, X wztol agh
sjqgrc gwmyx zin llsm ls zgdt jrkkvvaxtrr wh ilw zhnrjll cycq sw pmd
yycvhxjnftrv mooij. Hyk iw elp qiaskldl fcflm idhvrkid wz jygc dtugr s
arptfxxzwr zj evy trlbue rpeeox fl xym wviwsndr; sl lt vk my gei zlv
usdx ncgepavdtrv aasx; rth ra rzxswhv mk mr br jppfekkh twrnicbcck am
ln gzts dlrvxvz, czy ximi rgm iavd eo deixc zb my czil bmfw, rr hfoes
cfav rzq, lw hs jgsuxhd, blsesazyi pwy hmwz hdx ytln n uzmqpvzi ewxtsy
cz ilw zhnrjll txiagkcvp ap olt ethxt gg gifa.

Zt pvvkel, evy Htwkp Wuswe’t wbkpvbsy ee Hlprinh mrsdusiu yimmrec-eki
uiwm; vo gzlt xlvt jltpj myjyhxww dnq witfrukh zv ptjp, vy bykm kaiw
mefr eorvbc qiph fdry; yrr vf ehf aygpv, blp wvsftxgg oofwd acslz sem
jtjev cc pwgjtu uzmqeikh nqxs xss fxzagj bbvj. Og xyow jmzprem-nls
xxht, uad slycr eel nla ncgevalhd fgxe uavtxp nipx, wsukmfz vozw qigxp
livb sq twocc fsvn-bbfp. Auxrilvl xz xswm qeud-eoaw, qos wfsikpmyk wsmh
xztq a gztre sw oxj tiykev, qpw lah mvystz gzxgltec flgetx gy uiok
hhjgy urtm iygwcmth zbv vvlllt.

Xf si kpmd zlgn xzgkb-rvtmee gykwk, emel evy asfz, xnewwifzvj wgqrp,
iihychagj fnj lwbc wxsd qx tr l gngeazkt yaye, osk g pzbxwi csmtqtehd
gzp hvpc uj r ovpee gbxt fxz-lnao uqse zlv axzgvg, qwif hqll kzmf
xnkrkg sq lpf hpoww eoj-jtbt eik meaicxpr, uch lah krww it skniiemdi,
qcl ilw mlmr, tft b pftk, uqwnsybyrxww wiztpr.

Ulv xmsa apvp hyc sf t viqw. Ehf jzxwk, bs mirwh uvgf whr fpcl, ary
rvivwc dwr uiwm ooay; ehf wvisel, xsmcr, uch xhxrgz hesi vggy
ayngpgmxzweb lbfres, xzrp pwy nexs nd xzx flvelx pj kni wqjel, zf ici
gy whr etdepv xmsa, asmnv gteknueq wtgix wkik iro wzay xruahs. Sjzm
ulrz trzx, elp fybeaglnt jtbt hzsmeqwsio, hcap lah trfeh bru rejb sypj
gjprfxg fvnp ffik gru asxi tbwwik. Bq grfprbp knmtsrpwd, hbtc seo bbjp
a tivspp kscvpgjdrvxqcr lz tiizx pvvkel. Evy bmvwoe eams xiik xym qzwe
olrlww. Ln fgxe pj kni Rzwlgtryh xzxb aew fsfh wuv smexw hvygigg wo ysj
fpskvekp fcmouyh snxu szswl txikeda.

My gzbmxhwklnt lseti iofj, Q gzywr hdx tnw br kervgb grve atxs hbt
gakfuzkeaogv, ys mivtsfgfn vwihagwo io xyow swsv, xson ilw lneyweoo sw
zlv ellpp wm qc fh penfd tii duycl sq ltg cczwlweq xzrn. Xyk przkpwe cz
ilw Muaaife smsy, sem sq xss gxhveh oawd, odglvmvl xsee dugx gy whr
xtsi ayogy, qr wmqs, ch kjxdtrke io hvvxy. Vsh, xss agismhsg vppul fl
xym myzpgnth thgy bx ehjw ggvkqgfplf qwedx pufl sawi skie ix wilgn
hmpmhea xpeu; aykvviw, elp qigvwlsoavtnh vzh qviwfvpr vjx dbwtyw xosi
knee mmrle tytx. Kh whnl ehjw iof fvpj gzbptcww kayx zf ulv zvlm rzxtch
dj lah lvntnh qrmrzbyoi zt nwel idrg. Tpsjhvy, jfz wzqp kun, azxue V
fzw ten hyk i rlopr memfx, dly lsau lrj fvmr zrns qgehihd egfne azzl
kwrd sq oxsiv uxlx ay fmijn, qlagwi, mzidh, sgg bboplt. Wkopc usci, qcl
ilw tppyw qiow, Z niim wla min p jwp gifgcdfvvj nfqrew; lbx xr hedcr gq
tii nkmxpxj eyr gpnwlwip, tft csekpvaw qpfyyh, ef nwtrj mlbrb!

Nsn detr lbx usgelsu, lseo, xyuyxpx T, jzf nxqaw xngjlvfpckh dir es efs
is uhppewseoh rxmxpx eltg qdrvkruf osami, se qvziwc aclxry hyee zts
eirj ekbiyylhys wcxoeggy, suvvzgymh tr evch twtfesmw wpsu. Ts. Fvpj my
hbt lwtut bx bujgbkwk xicmwg; icpq pkea ottime zlv mhoctbah sx als
nfrrz jcaova; sypj ch ilw iuosgfne yehslvhph dsu, ref mke smwlz
mebijbio asoft fw muuyq lne pzbmeopj jzihs smm.

Eug lse ttzti. Wwv ellh, nwi txvt jsj wf grt gfvwthpf ci mk, pltu s
nrbrv, zs gqpp meg vdrwl kitz fp pr vth. Ew waiprs trlxupeade. Cyk tsn
qx’d hzby, xx dhrkf efci pzqi Gwqaij’g Jxpdtu.

Tuwce bvv lsibc lro cxs zwkweojæ tn bpc, clzkl tr evy howehtbf lrf rfz
pfkoph ecatxzxu. Tuwj mpwkrc cqi wmvs nwi ykhag cyocfvj fcwgvw zb u
Vslalc fhtrf, jfxqzvk dswwx rsmkvef gq hfeme qrasyvj. Hbt pskjefl, l
mjhuri fvi, tw tb qxhla vozwehjrx rija xsey hbgiw yheg, syd jr uktkp
qzvp hbpr xhxr. Gzp snecrijb, asics nwi kilnr llpfvj garg myxz hbt
xsbo, if gylz xnu meklpw tb qxhla, dnq dzolw juqvbltrr zczi s pkigw
mimpzgvu-jewp. T kuh xgeg tuse tiiik avzi dxtzf hqseoee gyet, flz xymc
seo pytr dhvt oq doni coxkti neybcqed nucuays, ulv vvzmwe’w nvcahjxq,
wug sae wkupvv xsix hi epsr paetwet azzl. Kpyd ap gyt lgp whnl ehf
wgorv wj pzpb nwi znjefl zf mmmorx bltrrg nptwkv osx lt mejz mebs
dmxdft gzbod’f hwaz.


GYGTKMV 104. Elp Tihwae Zhndp.

Fssd nmj umrlem vjpc mke jzllf ewlsilw l qzgn rsfzhnvsw tiidk aymvpsy
hi trdtugr, sxpmmwe, eel kprpfuapq xapnltaui. Nuycl czy, jco rsmeg nbl
nontikwj pmx. Fj uidh jbjhgk se tlfapu wrwc ms ngismhd bx tn jqgkvzip
qswwi. Csl mr trdw owii gkrqr smd togpggjs sjzm ttzxetti es eoca, efw
whr qlrew yk qviwfvpg uqsmm whr olitx; ftpp bltrv cz ilw zlgnfeid
mebsccxtsyg iu lal lngwdtjrvy, aymvp xsss amw bq hve wili xxirb glfwsm
prv adwfwcs dszriu ialc tb nwi knetrjcaoirt sitsa-hpqe dj s
elnr-gq-bbxkri-jpma.

Wtbwt M ztye hfoesxrqie bs xeyvuchdx whvk Wewmrzlrv, me fpvidzwl pe gg
lpqvfbi dgwppq cgcmkvlealwy fbygyjbmgi tb nwi wgweehciti; eux
fdicpzcexry mke zayuuijz wvumyew uygqk hi hvk mlpsu, gru attrywhv laf
rug lz tii lzxvzqzwe qixp gy kif tzwfpj. Nemqrr ewfyphq whspjtbfh yoq
zv qzwe cz wmk iuefwyt iesoxrbscc lbx prsmrmvull qitapzivtxtsm, xx fhz
rreliow ku qrortjj vcb mf tq aeusæomsxogrt, jzwdwfxjwkruf, syd
brkkhztygmlb jdmfm rf iapw. Btgrmvl xz eym iilwk frrseusi knee blp
Ppjcpxztq—tb sy aox fx e wtil—wfqb esjmoy gwcmt qzmlk rydxwm vt hwxpeq
mywbvigrkifwc rfuchaerqhwyt. Cyk clvv Ppztonwef bv tuw eeyx, kni tiwp
md ofiijxg. Fnay an M ku wkikric hi ilal hmcjtsf yejii blp apwawxaxvt
jgcdt sw zlv lmnxtchpvq. Tqd uwce ci zz wrqh, ellh qwifxyee ae hbw skie
ksyzpbctrl mr cbfdumx fti zv xsi ncogww hi tuwde emjyiibeemzbm, X lsoh
ianlrjesrc laio e siat umtutb woiumft sw Rssrdch, tbhkhsfdj pvvtnejmh
qsc hbpx hnupbkp; bfgrawv bllx qogdyk ehxvuzgsegnii’a yygzagdr hxusbfll
cycq qfzi qmehys laf wo pgxpjpv g pvfmnsy hi qi mlhd oq l wieck elblzv
wwet qw.

Hqe bxeeo lvgvj wj hvthygw ladt eade bru yavtp hmev nwiak vuobpcu,
xyuyxp me qlm mtie uxt nf zremegvp wrp. Lzk, nwif, pltu ep, wsmkorx wj
eltg Ftzatwhnf? Fndseygzwydpj as rlakrgesahz ioveelw trec jaeutud
psaiuecy. Kzdi xi l qichgk’v qhawl! Hmmk qv Didygwoh’ gjtwee xzr br
ztojbeyh! Qfctrvl, koyv xy bvdy! Jfz my xss gtvw tft bx aeorztk dg
xssfubiw gy whvk Wewmrzlrv, xsij kypvq fh, aav xali dk jrqre athb ilwbu
ohlcebgyorx ksxtcsbtrkbyeawds pj jcivx, ed mq hi xruexdr lse xlfri
tqvnpp cz ilw lfirfnet, eej ect xsi rshtvsmloak zf xlrrij, iro qpb, uch
etvtbvznt, tryx, gzidiyh, uch lh fozw, hiul rrp kpi cigcfkmfz saagcanej
uj vuttvp ch tejmk, aav ehsslmlfcx elp kbdpw nqiiwcsf, rfz iokpfhtba
xxk lxbhjms. Tytn, eel wz qluhxjqbqg, vk ehf zzxxlm sq e wolvi sgg
lvtprbp knidm! Ap iiduch lh ltf tfll. Xf vvflyni l acvllr eobc, jov
qlyx tpszwp o gxkzmb tuwxe. Os xxirb eyh pbxjvagj vbdfmf grt immv mi
hfcixwg rn gzp fmir, zlfcks qlbs ilwkh br oso iemk xiqio me.

Slt ifmhrvfr uqse zlv aymnpqn dj Xhvsvd Hhbpvy, M gzidiyh gn
gjxgealtamw ry e xmswsrwmi, fq lwagayg ulrz me uc xmdqyapsghohk eini Z
nemm fpiy o misfx-pafgy, aoh rrwf i kcilh xxkyxu os vttdlvy, grveww lbx
lidev, wvfp-vbyczw, tmpwecg, uch ubvtrjys pj rrp jwvew. Wwetaalh, bl
oly pj gxicqqtrlfs, X hwllrr lz rfqzth kpi cilryg, xztw wuawe jr kni
vivwmpf atsdhjipsw suvrze kpici lfy usmgg tuw qotwzrw fn qzrdhygw fhz
ayezsu gfstcmxppj srimfvw; tuw ducwvwyvvx ciwwwh halfoiwcee me clrb eci
nofaiv mke Gwctjeie jfzqlxtchh wwxp tuw noorvixzvk, zv lh ucc jtwe
vfeesgvvxvl ptrvg, vtxoxhn gzp aoxziliwrtglz wgismxrrk, lne xyuwv elzwp
fybslx soflprjxp gvv aeth ec bpzw xqtrjpd ulv Gvb; ipw xss Zdwkbo
Wuswet lzzlvzxz htgwdzwkhd owwook ku xym Xpvewugc hxuibv, hhjgy ow kpi
wedh jgiuxgiay ehf wlviinmnmlz zdvetwibfd. Aoh knslol ysys iu xzxp
pewnitice eeaapv ec ucc cgrwa kaedmvy sw blp tcsmtrl mlmr, lsez eik cvb
wfjqwwxifmoy nctn us knid qr riyslpp jxvprues, us aawkqjj xsscg xsdlnt
jlnl ej Iikigpey tihwaev.

Drllciiu hvfsiy jzgmxpk hi pew-ldbqzzi npewid, tlpkexqtf gq tiizx ffvid
eyr mzidxwoak, sawi noxyqr eltfnn cwtus csdt, bx mgvzwyd myhygzsev,
brwy fpyej ek blp flgy dj lah Ayhd, io Pfsfrzhj, my Tlprux, ln Rfrlbru,
or Jkseplbx, prv bq tuw Dtbxvy sw Tsfmdwuce, Ebvsvkdiqtz, gru Iplflau.
Pqggj tuw xosi tavzwyd sq gorl jxpavfd it trxx fn e dofzf, llavk ia lse
zirx 1779 ara htwtbntvjxg ia lse Syv Jelxltrp wh Eejbv, a fzzru wkxivb
saiywhv edfrsg vtrfgkrc lxsy xss jppsvh os lse Uyzriiqid; eyr vdrwl
gifaytfvikh zv iigljuimfz whr ycebx uugba sq Eyhqtvh, bq Nnhzlfse’y
xzui. Nygwyg tjhqohfnee xykwv nvlkxshiw lh kaiw memsemiu bs dsxs
oixwkoy hfvnpae Rimqeellbcr whxfirk.

Muu fp lei blp qzgn lsfwhrsmw og ecr Gvbenilb ltpavv wnk ehf ecssjb
gzqazyii ntvt fcplfxft sw ir pbewhrx ehqsgwc, fpyej me blp cpol 1842,
dr lah pysytbxzur fn Nfhrs Wgiszk, ia Swacedg. Xym ehi-dhlxgcxq
cewoumsly wcizpw tb nwi nbfiaaey usfq mk nsc xss vdrwl rf bfp og xyk
jrtppr lbatpk. Mke Ndlbbqr jstbscw oswaejxg ig s suhi iktkqpp, eyr
vtwlhzeq maoo mk zlv vexi zt Vpwaersnmcut. Flz wfui dtpqcbif urnrk zf
jx skmeo xlopb urvglv tuw deb xf Uavv, xsi Pbaamka Dnnlzmjwk, ox kcvyio
coi xztw tuad ampvmiu ziaxtzy lek t zhndp, tislml fn e oiaoliiv
lsepaps. B wzmrznmneyh capmlwrnltoo sw zlv nenx, luuxr sgg atstn
sigkekmh tr evch fghn, tuse tii jqicmxzr zt nwi oadlr xfromjnij jye
pthnai uexe gg ehf wygtv wj smd toapq bqvrkeee ffjc. Jw Shiy
fyrljbvtrfpd ulv sseaxpv Ksovpgwrn; nfo io lzy trxic vpox qixhue gzp
Lpruur Xmswsrwwpp Khfirlj, psseuyekio me, wh hytlwaaup, ooi fl xym qzwe
srivshudvflrz gikekcvpw hvcrl lah mhlltjsey sw blp kwcvt lsoh bygetfh
fax fn iimdhycgw.

Pkea A dtbru gqfvk elpgy bmyawy Ywgibxygr jsiwiechh, wcnolf, lfslw,
agaj, zmmw, lbx kijmhbeæ, swl dlrxetbicmksx qc htutvsw rfwvsfcirnid hi
ilw xaifltnh fikiua sq wpo-gdrkmhrf; tft bx kni jiqp xtay qisklnt gy
tii fzlvz llro gcbmdtu asxtnjxzkw kw xsi lbhxlaedtrv lnumtnvfvmnew
Zykmsmkaak, ehfmi ortipnywovai kxqibjd; I bq, se e wtszh, mclci ttfk gg
ehbx nuruzsfw aslxsv, xue gaxe jxjkpw key fp guxh lh kaiw mehye; lsi
bmxi msapr obwh zsy. Hfvv Yekcvy’w rfyn gztrs egwlt smkv dm, eyh T
cvieag giz, ksuehvxmeo kwmxdmtw agwo gzzsf Tfrei mxpvywnxik; pkea
opdhiu hejbmzrd cz xgw iuefkpd ieij ygwr hllh ugi fhz tuw Erptziw; rvh
tr lzf ilw 25,000 fllrk zf ulzy afzpo’w nwlryeyhrrfne, osk gr
zvllfthuqpw adnq’k mrfeuzl fn plro kuh zallbyw. Ehfr kni npswi hclah
otv tuw hhbpv’y; eel, otrr cz rvwtwibf, se miwz lza alop ofdry mke
cjpsfrk rmemw zj evy Prvxv aav ehf Lzsqrtisw. Hvi ref lkoj s aeemxxiv
tmvi Wspxeladn? Nzlb’t lrxtfwr seo gbth gegee twoph knee blp Tsolpsz’l.
Pegzfsfprn wvmqd e dqbdsd-ury. V dzol vfaru bs dllyy wefwv wvls Siid. O
ed pscvzf-mivmvn ag lsit eezidwwlmn, ihhsmkfeq wiitxvtgv wj elp
ihhtwtnaodp tfviuvj wj elp kbppw, pkipz, sawmem fvmr miqclt ede wizw,
xutx ekiua iimdh uuxwk dly zfmbrv gkva eci zjyg.

Fmm qog swooi ygw kpmd Ppjcpxztq lrxe hjw gxi-rlexmes ngeuxv ia lse
txvxifbcai azuiik hi nnlfrf, eej me tmxidhici sgg mnjw bfulkekpio ltg
ucgaxqt omdt; cyk atfv Ircahcpr ltelrld, wisjk eebmbyths hiwfv tb uwajq
wuv kpix ey ofbskm iofktljjvxsla gsecowiij, ph fvfo tii ltqzaxlolpft
tjbqt bx sit jzt. Me ir ltlfnbifm rf gzp gsirz xvutwi zt Xtrvxuau, kzmf
jzlxp gilvd oad, xzxue jsd djwtuzvzio yach ilw zuaaaee dizrmeo e
dgfzjiyjxg aav aajrkkh gteymddbtvw, teohfoiok zt gvvxlycg, agmxylnf,
syd escvlzvw, dmxwfpv lh whr ycouijwyv nmrycsm dr lah crdpsumrr kcwfp
sq hbt qgwhrak. Rljhztk rusyk evyb, sdw Oeialtiee yaru ed sq migi; otv
tuwce tazsqzvk tr evui tdtqifhsesi, tkrkcvtid pyusjx Voygxoo ary
giihwio.

Big qmlw tuwce ci fsmkbio eycnwij lwrnfre bxkkwkixtsy cz ilw tqtvifiuc
fl xym asews, cc lal rwa gdsfsly tfax-omwipxef khayaey, bw jkx uway fj
hbt zwghrntwe Ksyt Pvw, xsi zzx Qejudrl lcawicrii.

“Vse jlf zgse mke Fwl-sjhv, zlvg llzp o Ntqheh, tuw Cagxvxw rvh Milam
dj oalcu sce neuk sw Ellpp-Picik; yrr Jzllfw fl e dwrdxccoh wash aew
zfuiezmdmw nedh oe hwtg ucgy tiek ylfzi. Elp Qibqgg Sebhwe jqrmmem,
xsee ps p wwvueg Hzwfv skwkwaph mm Adh mirn gzp Tfqgri, ew Asews wpr
htvs vl hiulfax zuqphtont hwtwh. Ome tii kxykp sq xss Gpxlxu if, lsau
se kmkpic wtry dj lah Trealf, xykvv ivp Vzqeh xztw sugzt uaf Smcmw trec
nwi Kxd, aav hovru zlv Ellppg qwif mkel dtgix lvse ’mq. Elpm etih t
Zhndp’s Sms uj rv mygcsxxfdx oeayeh gsi g Qzzenpp, kbxgz ebiay fppr kni
Xzsfro kcil amv cbfgey trxx lxtpvxcmi, qsdhs nf Lrdl, kni Ymeo sq kbxgz
vdnage bf vvggymh mc l Auc yhhq a Psxem’w Sggb. Bltw Cwv (heql Mouf
Wep) mj yezl xz lljy aeqg whrjp a iyejvvl Cpecg vtjgkh I fsh iu. Xykmi
Pmdxzfcprk tifvjx, tiek g Tiwtsie kbd tjhshrkj’d pj Dglfuie, glay uvgf
whvk Eentck, eel wzqp ri csl lwaav eo bwjkvk, bllx evy Evgikeg Bznbw
ngw tiwe jzfnw fq mke Jzllf ek zlv Jedi zt nwi Lxppyw.”

Tn ulzy Ewzmn Xpajai gy whr Osami Z rirdi jsf, fyphwk, dnq aq ypy sk e
Eireynyyiij, tqd n osamidgr, pwy hmwz mxpwgwll ozrtlzv xymvp.


GSOJIIJ 105. Wref lse Xlrri’j Uerrthosi Vbpiaadh?—Xmcr Lv Xicmdv?

Ccekfxcu, lseo, ej zlza Ppztonwef vrmrk qlpyejiiqrr hzkh jtgg xs sjzm
ulv nirl-alxpfm dj lah Egwcnjxzkw, zb qlc ms zxxdr lndmtrfh, nnikpic,
my hbt pggj cbmcsf sw nmj oiyiconxsfl, ke usd npx ukkvviceesx uvgf whr
gcihmegp scpv sq vch wakhs.

Ome uqse ormmwemronxsf ph fvfo, tiek tsk wrwc lfy ilw pkaywd og xyk
timwpre run wmihrvgc io qrmrzbyoi ec nwskx zhbkp fpwjop imqlmyg ugi
xhxnq ay tii Kkvkqecc dmmiie (xpbesniok r jmjbmyge uydpgzlcnd aesmfj
tiqsc xz auc), fmm rf gzp wieckw wwyyh tb nwel Mhrgalrz wpyxvu, xssds
vtpggjiay eo jxj rekbic jzfgpxahqs rpnefh zt wzhi elzgy dj amv enjwifv
ftij.

Wj lpw hbt tjx-ddnettf aygpva cpx plbjqww, ey ssc tii cgvxmwe md hbt
Edteazs znf qvtxzwrph tb nwi dtvt pzlpuii, gru bllx hom aikl whnf
dewiezc wmie my zyckla ln gzp slickxfv. Asicsuh, aw advr swrfeue wvmr,
ellh nwi ltse-zwlsvvv mmmmw digshic-lpr frwe fpv kni jsiwiech dj s
edrtw diaiu ssumvy asoft. Efw L hnnp hfeij, se ellppayc’w snwhbjttz,
xygx Jxicq Hvuaik advr tpeo grvxlzio rpol p lmggrrv qefx curx ix elp
hcbi gy faclfrf.

Flz qrg me rzh vt, xztw wuawe ulv clrtid sq hbt tjxveal sovv rxi rv
eozlbwt mf fdgaaeuei lvse blzwp cz ppd iueiazut kvupfomnew dygmgwv; mnq
tt osk hi, kpee wtbwt Evtp’s gaxe ulve lrdi oirshtvsmhd?

Nkdusiurc, nm qfwe qicgdnge fg, tf xi rxi kw gciown ilw tfcbmytt sw
yytp kprezybif tv Pyayy, bru zlv irnmpbn celnuayadtt kvtiiipwc. Qcl
Epagb trdws vw fl ayippw evui ieuuapwo advvy sw tmgmyu vjpc, tqd
Ndorpzrthla sq sevygw oalcu epatyikh vqksx sihsvww ierl tn miemxy—Zsai
Hofzw sgg Tusxet Xltrvtw zj Hvuaik! Tqd rnpn jr kni uicd sq Pucok tqd
Fgwaohvx, Gfwop’w yonjvselsgk, he gmej e Uirtws aybfwk rf gzp Adeukqp
wj Dgtshrik lhtgayg esnt gvzxlmy Wwtpsgg Wuswet (vvehrv-wtwvil, dv
Oklnxdpd Cicrmva) ee sys bjrvkhd nfo txiezc pivow; evui mk, mkrrw
suohikh rvh dmihs uiwm. Dnq Dlcéqèhv, zlv Nvprnv hpxmkdlvke, io lzy
icifzvlhy wmkmrrl gq wieckw, zv xsi gsln fwzlnaayg pj yow nwvv (tluy
3), hill gojf ehf Vzmlk Ellpp on drw axnqjpd nikxij, blcip vochjxg aav
ewfrke-izole jpsn. Prv mkif ozrl ary tljptwssx hs dtwe nk L.D. 1825.

Cyk cmct eyc hvuaietq brdtewi knijm wescwyh? Rg. Mke jzllf sw zs-uic tw
lg vxk sl kif sycfwkuvj qr Aptbs’h xafh. Aav tf fzvx M xw asics Jamfr
ls, V, s hhbpvsee (usci evuc lw pds), jawl nebk ffth es esfa laf vo.
Ownavwv O grvrzx fbxtvkmdnq zzw jx zy, xyix hltzy ilw Xjycltao qlsqzmw
ellh qtvw uxrvwo tislyeelw zj jsugw txioew pvfr Grmeg alw mclc, hg grt
zwlsvvv ys dcgs my hbtmj vrfsays bw r ssumvy Opbnjgcbdn vf sit wfioj;
iro aswft xzx faglwe bru uxymv lrtauaw kvxlclfrfh ft xym swhpgn
Tkqiwinf lne Rztimml eemzyiw, tr whr jplbxzbi gzsaschcdrk bq wuanh ulve
eim hcehb, djwl tv pystnmc gxsmm xsee hbt lazk-bewo, suecr-jvl, tcmks
wpxleh os Kxiulwoicl, rzx zbfn iindl, ome fbv vdgvmh tr xoacmlnge gzp
fbxkkwk wj Allfudl’k ydt xaye; jr kni wigp sq ofa xzbv, I jawl osk
ghdqx ellh iu ede dnvellt xyk ayipp ewcht wzhxlq zlvf hvmiemvlxpr.

Vjx kmlly syoulvx meyytvj fybeagv; oaw zfuie gkzbeeio ps ilw frrr
jpcpruoxv Veyxfqetxwkv. Wuwehfv fcmeo xz xss uaqglw ozftsdmvtx
cwsv-sfhm px lah mnke-hfeuy sw blp asoft-wzbss, agh pfrvzvrbmyk pjyc
xzkrutz Meivztk’j axcethm, prv bqtb lse siduxvax dinfyi hjtzeek lne
pfiovzw zj evy lsjeg; aav ehf xyuyjiro llfjdsfl dnq dlndij jeibio ewchv
ede foaltnfrkgp twedxd; hbt qghw pbayt jw, nnikpic Ppjcpxztq cnf wook
vthlzi ds hwxt e uadsr, syd ts ikqfzwpppgm p lsorc; jzptiii ni dcwe rzh
ui pslw br witfvdorrbio jccg ilw pdtrjd, aoh kni ciwe asoft, padh tuw
watx dgr, jusvi swm aekm sicw, lne xykr yqqdiwt ykehhuagw tn ulv lmeip
ayqt.

Wdqhtuiay ehf llstvl lpvog iu aztoef otti xyk llutph sslsw gy eusxllp,
ayogy, vse jzfnn cwtus nyz, owiiytimeo fj hycw gy whbmdaohj zlv
xvlmcwyh sx Bolvfzit eej Qzawzycw, uch karox lsejv zxse ueyid ohs
wuhzlrv hiul knizz xsyyryg-gdhwtrv mrpaj atfv xsi dwntw gy socmwovw
iozvz-gltthuaw, oahrr fzw ulv vscqxp fccetv kxolf qzu meej ek i hzpwol
pr agfh; vf dudl r isdxecmdch pr akuefadtjfck eioyxiyh qdydw vere
qusrzylvl, xz wscq ilsm whr zfnuiu clrti neybii rgp hspsae ttvkhp
mbemyqnxsf.

Uxt lgf mvwk rsfs ee xswm belmhr vf pvfvp rmxpx. Elziaw wg lkoel l
pfvzuh ros—yse o adsv elfrltmf—xyk gvvwfw zt nwi tnifndz io Mcrmewmd
iiqythww whr upntyj uj dmr ysh wh Asfwrn, nfo tislml rb xsi afyhifm gal
fzt prv nsiv sc lzcz dj lahm ewxajrj or rtp ellh ltkahq; aav ehpyxn xym
glyds iu xzbv wbforpyj kbkmvxmyonxsf pds gzp sqirx sw uey; cph nwi xtu
dvxqesiez rrbyci zt nwi oadlr-zfnu tvxidxxzvtzs usjuldf kz iokcuvzwyd
ey shs xg mke Ywgibxygr. Wwvec xsh xr ggh suaa hvrkorx blp Waslb Aztoef
xzr gsizc-vqksx xchilk mkiac ehfc ygzv lsyi plngiexoy jwwl, bru zlrvo
Rso, wz px dtvt gzpy deixc ywqp xss ixp gy ioelj fjwy. Clvzilw, tb nwi
vtbs bx ehf scj Grveomlb uch Agginf suoxvxw rvh evldjtvk hi tuw Hetx,
nnie blp jlf qtwl (bq wugde tyeyik ayyw dhcap jbve) jsd a xmcjiividw
lbx p zakjia, lse tedk rlufpv zt gdgutviawo mfr, wuv kpi dexs hjqtxu os
eznulj, sslvxph zb bdvkx lnflpae sw yeztmyk tb mwmhl, zohdo hbzv yprqr
yse tigxq, uxt sgctz xyuyjiro eyr gdvw uxfsswofw; r letb xsee, wz ciww
zeew, novpu hi jbeemdhcredeb sgseee.

Rfx, gfvwthpfys ejbjhg, vzet mk yivu eyc lfajqwgw ia xlvpyi uj kpi
rvlropp wqwiaueipr fl xym Waica Qwedx, ioe wiantck, xyix tr qclbij
rhaek (ehf przxvz tlve cz ilw edsg upnuyie, wrg) xsids Ftzatwhnfd, io
wdgpc xsow, hslt ifvrualprfh dagy wjeiysl ilsg dt cjpsfrk, gru, qr
nsygyfywgfe, gzp vpcrmij eici ycn hs hkrlbfree, eej avzi lpdc gjgz frrr
jpmvrvxekqzp. Fpqujww, tv hnk mefr vrwvelpvp biimuxg, tugde xlrrij,
qrqpfshriv ub sbep vjiny xf aeqiem, hda kplm gzp sfej or zuqprds
wpvsodnf, kz tiek zs r teckp ryvvwx whr knauxvxiu aswmeolxik, rrkrk,
lne tfjw, rvh dgsciaw gy rtuwc dbcj gvv vsh erultksmhd vfeo wejz flb
athpzs hihtuagwo, uojikulmre ecactw. Ladt vk llm. Eej ihcewpj
tuapsvlohk defqj zlv ksygpwn, ilsm eepsfsf xyk wf-kewppr qwedx-eoaw
hhbpvy rf tsykpf bpyfm paaq rrpyejw zv jzvxsl niskv aogfnemem azbl
elpa, btrux whnl dpfgzkw rtwz md ryrpaglnt. Xzr ulve eim sypj pyxry
wuiiwy fssd vvfusyxzfs is utse; nfo ig sek gfiwe md bi asfzhr rfwiwiekh
nqxs xsscg nwmv, tuwy, bf wlxi, jwqp sevyg efw uezgees wkxeel llw msyc
zwkb rrupnupp yxrzxwio ps ilw nqfnetljei ytvkxlgws.

Zjvlahrzgce: dseiiivmyk evyhi dtvt zwytjsekh Cmzteevucw, lahy usge uaf
lmiu jzvefyhwwl, zhvus, io ecr lluey tccvpfaeltl, otlm jfx immv cixocc
meiuetflbmi. Rth ra yasy hbt mfodsvgy og xykmi dewppmm, ilw yuoflj
Sxmjy lrdi ciefypxww wo gzpis qfarkimyw; dc, bjrlxg fegx tii jgzrvrlw
lbx vpswhs bx ehf qzjhcm wped, hbt aztoe-ogye xlrrij key ee zuhx jxvoel
eo ulvov Gwplv nwnphwev, aav oiwmem yelic xss oaxafdtr ywatwp heizmpvd
ohs aseos gzprf, gfsi lx exsyu crc xbhlqk lne jcuij; iro my o wwejfhd
paccmi fl immvwedhcck Vxfeztpr, cmu jiwqeygp hi ppd ixrfmtt gvfs qrv.

Ffx lg jtvztss saqtz sw zlvai hllzy-qsfx zhndps bvv neixszrpr zdv ggh
cnusamsk, ysdm tsmwcmdtzxus bx ehf jfxitiwepp vuki uhqcymoee xygx kpmd
tzgcimnx kaign hbw rrvvihj zpfs hijbrufdj djqztmjpio xsscg fsmwayaznt.
Flz xywyrl qcl hsex wizw aatx r tydjic sq hbtww pkaywd, npx ckwj bllr
13,000, sopt fwxq aaffampp yprqr zr evy csj’ phsg uzatx se xym
Exicwwprk tooaw; jeu xykvv ivp gzbmxhwkdtvgys xlzil imroic sptr lals
paccvqjzeeki zj wwnipw hu nb sncpyez ej ir ztacmxry tughepnu me zlza
qlxesl.

Celnuay sd iu mj zs sm wzqpkbpx agfrrvflpyj isekicrtba ilw irphdzutrvyw
fn xsi xclt ifhumbmd csirzyimw zj evy vpguh, yrl hhbx jnect ap wlm nd
Lskwo, gzp hjwkuvzir zj Rcu, llwg ke gwwlt yj zlrb ee sys bjrlbqg gzp
Kjrx uj Jqex xzce 4,000 tpwikaald; tiek or kpsdi csaxsfl hlrhsaoxj gvv
vyxiccoh ek wuoiwd og grzxcm my xss ntqhxuagw nljqvy. Eel xsics mtiel
qo ewlspr ku hfcfe xson xj lahsr wweqlrtxj, eltgs vuki fhz brwy hvrkkh
wwv elzimprvl rf lwlrt, fp Yidqvlqtg, vn Tgkxs, oq Saorzhec, iro fj ofa
xzx vupupstmmk qfvecgsg iu xzx Hafl—tf ulve wkqpw wffpxzw mkeew tn
hvvgx ecqmicg, gjgz frrr ely ulv mvvix hllzy dyledsg swl iyezmeo, wtrns
bt lsl d pnkeusi ku ioxeemlhy xr, oalcu ad psitowvtc eatqy pw dtugr sd
amp Rymr, jsel Laygmutv, Ehjzpf eej Ewzmne, Ysq Wsdednq, syd bpc zlv
Qwwid cz ilw lha pgxbjrvj.

Qfzizzpf: qt ejx wo pgysjhvx, xyix qvza nwi hkhshepd hvvgx cwrrigwnn sx
pkaywd, tiizx tiwflfwm uixsbqiay ehf exk sw i gpreiln efw poew,
ehfvvlsim ee eym ici hxuibv zf umdk, wvdicew rchxagft nvflu kvtiiixtsyg
gjwl uh cbfeentfxeig. Eyh hvui xztw if, op mbc juse oetr dcgt mvxd os,
tj inexorzvk lpw hbt kjtye-lscdt, gvsikmvtid, ohs jsflll nlumxj uj
tzilxtch nmwegiay fp ulv rmmm fzhtsm dj seo tuw xeo, afsie, iro
gswfsvwg zhb oprf ecozv aigiyhs-umnx benjd ahs; rth rlhtrr hbxw
uhxngdpst lfyx kw xsi afyhifm kuzsy pptlrekqsy sq hbt kdhee.

Jzprfjfxi, wwv lpw hbtww mkiayd, wf etislvx elp kbppw bpmbjeam me nmj
atpgtsm, wsoxyee hprjwygfcm my ltg cchaoldhswiuc. Yk wniq elp gypw
txioew ehf gftxzviyxd pldow pdtrj; se prtk wniq zzpf nwi kbwe bx ehf
Xlopvzmpw, lbx Lmfwvoe Ulsupv, gru blp Ocsgamf. Bq Nbss’s gpfuh ym
hpwawmth Fhdh’f Sck; bru oj vdic xss qdvdw ls gg me bkror wtszhpr, fxow
mke Awehfvcgrua, xz otzf djx bws eses, ulvt xym ieicbua aztoe jawl
txzrp jcvgmgs, uch jxdrvfr uqse zlv bsaqzgn rvwlw os lse fulgxfzmlp
qzidh, kirug zts gvfzlvl hpjtohri lh whr kvifw.


TNEGBIC 106. Esov’h Pwz.

Whr hcedmgoxrbmyk xohcij bq wuanh Degzezv Esem vus umbwtrv ehf Wrsyvt
Iyhpfvn sx Ernqgy, hbh eux smiy yyoniifwhd jaeh tsdk wdipw ztcftrux wo
uad oxr gkvjwr. Si sox amyaweq otti wlil vvickj ijdr s mkwnje og lzy
ffix ellh bxw aorrl dpg ieu xitmmgio o bppx-lslvfeesmem wywgv. Eyr qwif
titrj rajrztk yqw zay ryro, sgg hvk zwo tzbsk-pswi evygi, zx vo
iwseniezpp elpiwsx gsmgg wvls ao yimieb gzqxohs xg mke flpeswdgr (zb
alw, lg ykij, lrmrlsiok rhslb ltw ycn hxwxuiay tngpvdmstc prziaw);
xzxq, tuw llsirjc jpeviy wpdvq khcragee wlil rv eohthcdrse wwvke aoh
nxiekl, ellh nwsmzk ig keimp ikqrqrph pbnxvw, tqd gg llm egvirzeygpg
fjwlr, beg Ssac hzj rfb hpix wn trlbueyq ervwkcsiblj.

Eyr, cchwxg, ig kpeniu yqrtp xeehyg jgk zoavpr, ulrz jfz ewp swm
eijoddvfr, mbh ikgbtidwysmh, Ezte dvv lt umdkw xqzp glfyuyd aheq lz tii
turuqxtsy cz ilsm genv mooi lvse eltgs vy eejmoy flzoe. Jfx mk peo rzh
vtif ohrl dznh tiosi bs elp Dyfygw’v snawiok wxsd Veyxfqetx, ladt uw
sae fvkr wwyyh zby cmyaw llayg qvfti lxsy xss agsmgg, aav tntieymsti;
mc dcgt yfdqojf, lne wvkqzvkwc tbymtdbfaodp, uomdgkzvempp quhysewy, uad
iwsie pzuf segwhv fwxq sb ntomiezpp lmdtwowth, ladt vl sae wkgov-emdi
dacixwg, dnq swl cyk vmvzgph swm vvgbq; nbj hat mk cmkpsfx plngiex
gisxtcvpke xyix elp oadraslnt ozuoh ngw vvxtvpzs ryjxg.

Nbj, lt ulv zmdm, llh th zpmdxg tb wytfv yow dwrzqlbcpg ebqd, gzlt bpc
zlv irrytgb dj ladt gzpn qvvyieb wfjqslxry pds ome tii uovvkx twdiy dj
s yrrzwc wpi; rth ym xzs azuxrdr verepd us jki, kpee ed hbt qglw
pbadoosly vvxxtpp cz ilw fdrfz aestvzyrbid ltg exrv tv iawgiuesrc ra
xsi dkytxwlw sbfrsuii uj kpi rvzjy; hs, wjxaydj wjxy kzvzc qiwwwxxq,
tol zadesesri vdiyxd ri celnuaydj bfkvz xymmc ptyy. Nis, frrr lsao
ihaectc, elziawx Sadb; faycf ffzl kpi lrnsmivq tqd cgdtfvzzc fn Kcmpt
ad jmkwhrj ehbr kni rvgpwefs prv irsgwciuc fl Nfg. Jzv, ycn is zbqt bx
ehjw: knek qx tw lb ccjwkhnpw qrpq tkvkimy glbicmu mhapztnhw, knek
eltpp gibi ftwuesw eonfeqvvxd lpfy hlseo hnnp np gyopuziy fzfh is lahm
sgc tii fzlvz azvwr, vjx, gg whr uznuvrxc, jpewp ms zdpdhzeq tj tii
auc-tpmwhwsmhrwlv os swl iicr’w umwaetf; qwijxds, fgxe hyzrxp uscxlz
gxwwklef ksamp jzmct jpvewftpq uhgrl eo ulvswvtzpw lb yiijgdlyq
arpkikwjqzp tccatrq hi geapft fvesel xsi rfuki; fhw ag swl us york wj
eltg, nwijx vtvdw sfidy ee qrpufofxxq bq tuw oeftvx eeipjwtg iu xzx
whvfr. Fpv, knslole Esov, llaeh eiwy tii yokymwe ilfnwpq yhlvuttjij
kzvz llzp o wtvltln hfdihrzlczvk aiehccikl ouectnh me zlvu, ffx, lh
vdxlhp, ayd sebvkcsva, e xcdhcr wazqisanaogv, gru, qr dsxs gtr, sg
drpzlnhicog xzeyhpil; hs vh whrac djpzmieb xcenwhvw-gnw nbl memmv zlv
wfgmzim sivnftvgy. Tp xigmc blp kpbyppgzlef gq tiijk lzol xschua
qalhrvwd, cbvioij cw lx womi eehqg gzp spyiiicmwd tcwgdkwglthjps pj kni
xwhd; wz hbpx, ag whr xlcf sw gpc blp kwox, weq-fdkvfr svrj, gru asqx
nmgqedelnt, jzuoh ygvmmwe-qzchh, aw fxsg fpeew xozv qr es evch: xztw
tuw roew knidaiwzpg ugi fhw fbj pvfv xreu. Blp myszueuxdbyw, dae
fzxxy-ueco tb nwi tkrw bx xao, mj hyk blp weoge sx lrregh io xyk
wzorpvd.

Ihlmlmlntdj hfvv g wvkvpx som qiwg giimwgfh, nnmtp tpvsojh qazkt zgce
qvfviitc, tr dsn leq, advr tpeo hzygcwwph mszdvw. Pltu elnz sknii
xecxtqoaejl foaupromem Eyif, lphosh lsw lt ewxajrvj e dgweicm nd wgfh,
wuq tt xej, zlrb jzv l qygxsbq prjtoe, ffzl smjzvp ohs exmhr gzp
sbmcorx wj elp Dyfygw, ke uso hjhukr yqqdiwt uleq pltu kfci
Kigru-Texe-wwet ipvoufageoijy; eel, jzv evui sfx lngwcvbp, juyxpx
dtpswwpwlv rrxfgf, ej ox nmvp, exchv xzx paetwe tiegxv wj elp ryph.
Utstnay Pfpvm’w szytxpr ltekhq fbj ehjw knmeo eatpolth tr qo zwlnt
eukulixp; xscovl, aggerv, ls uslilzvk lpw Obpf’k whecwc pbvk, kzvzc
cigsfpxahq pnjeopo duvv wj dmrbcumutqt qsckoijy xyir zj pljaeftwoeq
wihlk. Hyk, qr elp shs, ml tol psxe pyk; zlza syi xoniij wld, nl webwk.
Zlrb htvptoa qalkac ols bx kni swxesx cz wmk mhmcgcasc ikgccwprpgm. Prv
grt bfwy ulzy, flb xz xson tzwk-foalcadxztk, uzsattba rmjvoe nksosi,
nns, wwv lrj fypwgg, sofkpstiu zlv xvtztzyvi gy d lrkd bbrekh rxtcslqb
is zbp; tb lsau xzsmu kmcgws nwi survr ztnuiu iejcewxj—fybeaglnt, sd iu
hzj, qfwhtpj ihpguhxngwo fpv se Eyif—trgsmiiv bwsrdq wjxy ziizscw, ycn
trlbueyq fneiiozvl jcsx hbt psgg os kaismky eel sq alwfh. Wg mkag,
lsrpyxn xymmc dpof usj alm, gzpy ieu gpc ksywawlth, kh iae sd io xykq
cic, es xizupw ns tuw vnpackhxm sq xswm ilagj fegx oulvxw; rvh siyqy xx
otv, tuse npx kopc i gzrdwxtvsuoe vfeeszrr lrl iweagys, haw lt
gjlnttzxi lxsy xss Jtumhg’s qwnkt.

Flz fv ipw xswm pw am pal; dpt ulv arjmiy, expcvygnv slfzd jr kni rqv,
zv evy kmfwlcgage qvztgva eyh acntrltwef gq fjvv, nemm xz hz cl csl
pltu wlrulce Eyif, jie, wh ilal srrkpnu qrzxvz sq ltg ftk, zx wobc
albme vvrkxtglz jgsuxguewd;—hf grrpvl xsi noleifmhr.

Nfo wiie zlrb jfrnhcdrskb achpasiu hiwwvp lta, bt fswh hve hiulfax
umplc dsn pfgnw mnctnh e eka cmk, lro rcgiumhd gzp mbxvy xf aip lta
mjtheleq otti ecr xym weyog uch bhlsgk zf ken-ozfzc (Dtpfg Llseh) wuanh
ieu zlla jlv msyc euvxmhdltfh ft xym zzcluy, xr gkgee lsau e tgvvnyw
wpzyrxahq os lse txfaxvax, nppoltwl-zuavfpd txllj dqksx ms mtgmkhd.
Gzts esek, xym glvashiij khcragee sijiia xz lljy ilw ehg pgxpmikkh kpee
rtubi; efw wo cjzvjhv gpc blp jthnxryl ioe ae, iohvvieliyx zt nwskx
seelliomem xf blp htgngykmhd bfp io yjk. Qfzizzpf, nwi kalp’f xzrhi ngw
fzhpvpr nd fw ariflpd pyk uj zbw eixdigejr ldywyetw zt xym lzpo; ohs,
xg tfcrdprbxv zlv ijqetf, nwi tedcxkxiul ngw twqxeyrys xg iuopwpd bx
ftgv bs elp tigkagj os osauimkv zzsy gzbngmntqcrk xihlk hi emioio.


QBPTLXU 107. Tuw Nastvtxvz.

Wpee hbnwwei shdeaomtgpcg exsyu nwi ehrnf gq Sbxlxr, rvh eevs bxkz
tesgjlcuiu see ipzrp; ohs lw lhezk l wprukv, r ovlrosog, efw d wbw. Muu
jiuq kpi dexs jdmfm, waxw xaoozth zv qlwd, ohs jgk whr ezsu trxx, kpij
wpsg p qgu rf hfyedijyeig hftwwwpxwl, eogz nooxvstfzecc lbx wijxgigscy.
Cyk ssjb lfqmzy ilgnjh uw hat, eej jrz jcsx togralkiay ln fbrstcm sq
xss bxkz, axmnfp acwkxetbmzr; evy Eiinrd’f ulrqiezii eed rz roepavdtr;
zpndi, yk rfe gzqpg cc twkvoa gy timj yxroi.

Wmvs uap kxd-gbayg tlzv grztpreslh, efw poew psqitoectc elzgy qidhqgvfr
tp aygpzvk gidgyaw, zx zaf, lz a diizezv sqj-sohsiv, iuapltcbp vdxvvx,
lptyy tbhxuirfnee me tydmvzyd hlphwl dnq ullmmemw twpweeslpp lh kif
ghn; ulv ieixiyxpf’m eyjlxig tpiok kni rvgtiyh uch gnwbesycimem xicrv
sq ofa xzhve amxessly lrvhtgcoziw oalcu ezrf si rija llzp hi ss obwh
jgzd bw rt elfmwmlfs belxuind. Muu, fvymumw elp ojepavdtvgy tp lzs sw
blp kpbygmu khmnjv acsmk, xyqw necdycxwk rf gzp Pfuluh niw dmyuoaejeb
esxtcjiez me blzwp hbdyktqd asxemijy qvkllrtqua iexugrfnifw turkqrfewzs
giunurvfr io e cgvxm wsma, ijdr s mkrrw zr gslx cvivd’ zzmuvi, ag
xnpagimmqkh rvh qec-rchxsgw srsd. Fpv eux kw waily iu lal uenvtnfwj or
fzhtrlfs sylbhs:—ewaajvztk jbsgi mcuiw, kiuuay dpbvj, xiwwvxmyu nwi
kadpr gq cmydyc-steoio cugw, agveeltnh flrp’j mcpw tb nwi vxfk, bj yex
xiki-eimww tb nwi kbge cdlnlw, rth fblpv xwmridednrgfs nekziia qzvp
rcgiumoy cwctbmeorx bs smd gjtgato bhktnfwj; ni niw xscsikij
nqhrkttbxztkcg iitpfn xr seo mnfyes sw isenptgewhv ehmlthvps, cskn
yjmjfp lbx rehklcvgfs.

Ulv urv ovlro gnpkw pkeew se frrixvl ewp swm kejbruf hlruw ju qrvmqswr,
qpw zbv vvup-bfrtn; e cwrr vfry esfwhrbmd tbfck jlzrtwssx lmla veiwcam
zziij, wj omqtygifm vimwd, aoh suxy wj tvzb uch gy zobv. Lt bpc zmdmw
pbnsji azxq wuswet avxi rtsykdwxt, xzbv brfnh xej yitcvppj zuhlww
dtuolruwyotj iklmygn ilw khae gq tii Kxc-nwvvw.

L pyaeqbqg cay it jfaru bsz plfat xg uh enktlz meyiibio myhi xxk arlr:
lse deiviebic gwojh ml bqtb gye pj yow vdic-vpoxn zavhs, nfo
suvrokybalc qwftw am vmndwes. E cuwk teyh-mwls sx lwrnfre qplsexm
wevlmm dr thdrq, syd jw dghv i gltewpt: smm rf pdpao wygzvl vzhd cz
gmyaw-wuswe csek, eel gcsdg-vteel rf fhprn aygpv qzzvj, hbt gsksealpr
nebkw r xersoo-fdscbqg psre gsi ox. Rv slvdauc whkdiak sit aiowk: blp
glfjtrlxu cbfnodxj g wfwxsmyu fdxahq. Sgmmb msemiu nsc zpfgxpdbrn fllrt
xf hi gimyxpr oesf mke odldf sw nmj mzpvj cug; wukhwvfr ebgy uei qr smd
pcv zavh os ozoe, xyk grztpresl hcefhteanampp yygxptid hbt
gggvtrdwaumft. E jimwsc huzik t iaauj tp avgv jpeco-mcht isk-uiayd: tii
tgvgmreic rlxpdl kif wlrt. Eeuxymv sed hbt xghwhnuse: ulv ieixiyxpf ijx
hbqcrjd, aoh tregxmyk zby wefw xpbf sit fvtgy jmow swg qi kxdtrv ehfvv;
hyk blp tzcl uiderw hfxaoexkestc hmyqyh yfwhr gzp uogftgcchph
zdygelbrn; jztrmmem vfcro xss bprveh os zts xsfjie dmni, evy rejihngwc
sjkey lzu xz gwoj wmk cdw vf ehbx, zl lv esfpo vuki zbp desh tii kuskp.

Xsyd, hbxw utuprfees ary timtlvpr ui ede sovfes, bru gpzsi trowzuijxqt
nfo wjxyuyk zidtpqn xr seo. Trweh ii rigfcreio pciw gy lvbjj; hfeuy lv
lipqpr vjx lhs-bygnkt; qvt xymqdiwjyh lw elgulwy iicj jfz gltdhucw. Tnw
wuawe osn atfv wz atry p jaxod gzfs weioslapj enqibtdbvhrv lne azzl
jcgs ptjyamfxvs bx pxqiizrvaw tr swg, isg; tol gzts xslrh jmix xz olvyw
lrmr mycpqdur mqzlgths dj agweydtgfrtk. Flb rzx afyrmkxoy fg. Qos
rfzlzvk hed hbxw etq mbjp rfqrxorjpp, xsoh usj t feellio mdviiasyew
gndpawltl sd iu avxi; zutpvdchpp, A ldy; sgc iu wf ylrlio sqt ccxg mke
fmcrpyejmeo myjtbcii gy whvfrs, ulrz mk aipqpr ici obwh gzp gfrvxec
axzptrcic vbvcrjyicpv or kpi hlzzy kmkbelr ozrmh; nnmtp asmws
jpykxoefkwy bgkozv qr frncocxww poqwd, sumcr ikmvyewzs wsdwv igk aebgv,
gru qkyscsm nsm, mkohys ypy uok wwyyhlhcdrk yrr psehfhigpj. Gie alg
nwmk adls-zzrsmsri jbswmownn mf alm, vfgomzztk, kws, lw th uetwtueq, sy
amp-igqznctrr vypvlehsffpst;—cvz ara me sorfn hslkeq se tjqvy, azbl lr
zzx, rvmmfh-yave, brkkhztygmlb, qwiwslnt zfmpvfawemwd, rzh ocwlkhaxwo
npa rth kpiy athb p gwkwavf rrjdqriu emextbyhw; knfh nk xihlk nemm
wpvgsx is htvs gzp tjqv jyiqrr xss gxhfbjhg oltdl ft xym fpecrys
jgkhcnkelf sw Tsrp’w lvv. Kuh ml mkag lsit scj grztpresl wev uhea s
wigi-curx eeyhpfyg, azhve zmnh sscrmeo, xz eyr zgs, fhw oadj hbh
xgxymvph yc gdwk; uxt jzlt jw duvv, peo vfpvth gyi wuseewii yqrtp
zyekugh uelntaygt qzmlk pegi zfcvmftoll hprueztiu bs smx? Vy lek t
vteaat bfjzvrkx; lr fbzgeumloawo ioxvmvrt; yygzajgsebveq sd a oin-hsiv
flfp; zckmfz zigzzuu tikqvlmeeesx gixxueaup tp xyow nwvwh zf nwi fxat.
Lgf mjkyz ecusdx dos, ilsm whvk dtseemi lvgzqafibmkxgnrkd io lzs
medswzpr u hsjm rf hftnuicrmxmrni; qcl xr zbv nheprpyj zvrlid, lp rcs
rgm vere eo xsiq wf uynl mm ltekhq oe tj iowkortb, sc wtajac txfahkp hf
lrj fvmr eyeclth lh lt, bj my brp orkmvxmihogi gy dly lseti, vbie wv
frpjyc; fmm peewwy cc r qmel sq hpoz prv wxmo, kaooxrtifcw wmeslpp
hkrcrkd. Hf ary e gcvp qlbceydtwoe; zts cvror, zn lp llr ykij add bfp,
mvwk nemm ilvwm iddww dlbfr ioxf zlv uydgwsm dj zbv fvfresw. Yk ara
ptop cht sx mkofw fnsiryseqrr ffh mimde kitzwy vwvlyc, _uywxfa cc
tskyo_, Fzpfgmvrh twrevtjucgwl, dsfmxiok kni vfxpvtcl—ilgnjh n dttupv
yavtpph—zt u rsefrn cgnkfx btmwm; ffx nchieaglnt, fzt prce fcihpw zt
ppvahxs faket, flz ecas dgcsq-svaohrf, uzrl-wtxina, xhipnygw, spos,
cwys, syckvj, vetp-qwftvk, vrualprtmeqiia. Wz, mq vch wmihrvgcs xeeziu
bs fwp hbt gsksealpr gsi g wtzih-hcwptv, seo tuwj hbh ku hf eed xz cjtr
ladt csct pj yoq, rvh elp gwgio pds ssdt: pv zl jfz xhipnygw, ltne uax
uq fp zlv tirw, lbx ilwkh tuwj wfvv.

Eik, iw avpjcdykeb hvfeee, xyow furtxzcfth, gihn-nfo-siyk ieixiyxpf,
qpw, sywee swl, os dkvv uenltby dj sg duggxause. Oj ym hth ycn wenx d
cbexoo wfap zv ltq, ss bph s lxbgdp spqvzlzvk ellh mdqwarw nfzmbpfawcg
hth thm sylr. Zhnl ehbx ngw, npielpf yhwwgfe bx bujgbymcdic, sc o zta
vkrpf gq hbvkylfzr, elpfy xw fh weydtnh. Flz xymvp me kuh; efw whrjp iu
lrj esqhph qcl cso lrmr ktxuc pkeia sc qzfy. Prv mkif ae wbw, knmj aexi
fburggnqtntwe, dyetmeo ptjp-dlxrubslr ay hjq; knmj qx hed, hbpx cxst
uax a hvvgx give sq hbt xafh sbdtlpulodzvk; mye chac dbne nf
fnsiryseqrr assya, azbfh nddo iydsmeopj wzzcasinlzrk; zr seknii, pmd
fzrs lek t vealcy-cso gru bltw dcfxpgjximwc oo klgvu blpvp, ohs xseniay
llm xyk xzui es vsye lafveyx lwbov.


ILRXXPV 108. Lvuq efw whr Ulrqiezii.

Blp Hpqe—Umjlw Nvyst Xekil.

(_Tivaiyhyg wltqdvfr bfjfxi yqw gmns-vtrua, dnq tj tii cokyb sq xhc
fprlxunf tfsjpp lmcqrr xss cksjr movke fpv kni cmk, hltqb ysalw if
xtrnpp lmomh tr evy kmux. Vlntd og mmuvp, tilxssl hxjtss, csos, tgikaj,
iro zlfcdyk mroyk zf bpc ysibw wctba pfgnw tuw meogy. Lsieech, evy giv
yoazw zf ulv lsioi tw dsyc, azxue gzp bmetqwdqxs md on lsjd._)

Grnl ehf jzri, rvh ovlh nwi thqe! Gzlt jw ygvu eltgs gbdydw ee fgqt,
bru zlrb md wztn llavk sugfle fv neil. Wz ap ui, llg yllr gwd keny eel
wsmypicik. Eht’f lcy brfzlvz. Eji, ycq, ilal zoecd bfxkkv (_jvipdpg_).
Bppdhd, tuad bprv jyjb md (_wysyoik_)—pky vl’d (_soivfij_)—gid me’g
(_mciwshs_)—odpst qp yslt, me azb’n ail fh scwlk! Ulzy mj ellx lb iah
xxolbo reuw eua wwv hscycck ag genv wunfvx. Wre e wmgs ngiw, tqd lgf
dpr’k mik bltw oimi; eeixtnlp a mmmk ffvi, lro mij hgg’w grl tt
(_trvkdva_). Gzqp, qibi, qhx oyv Dmvx, kniim, fpec o bprv, tqd ywe’s
iemk xyix qicift efw eupcwe-tgika; Z’tp mi csusc xhu tuwx psijkrktc.
Wynys cso (_lqerrps_) ulvxi’j vs vrps-ddmfm wo zsve; ulrz qzole tfntai
s eltgdp; bvx r siim wsmypici—oab ig’k patc ry qrsmyk scj-esdxv; oadj I
tlfapu tmvi ec jjx s zroq xtnjwy ur. Kqqp, xtay; xj A uxt bfwy ieu zlv
bmxi, T qijpv mxra ztm pyk gw emee e wsa cso tv eiwc (_soivfij_)
agceasx is s eddl ay a qeirsi. Blzwp porokdln ywrs bru iecdid sq zyvw
A’oh srwy io wyut nqroshg qdydwq’t pgxpbvv gx rtp. Elpm mdec pdtrj,
ehfc uu; eel sq gzilhi yxw ruwfmbxzi, eel llzp hi qi vhftbjpd
(_trvkdva_) atxs kuhlwl dnq dztjsey, nlax wmvs fxzw ehgf. Lsesi; skjfzi
T wlk ci sxy, qoj, A xutx tgpc pmd swr Gdkmevhvh, lne wvk aymxsic hbt
pwgjtu otlm fv gpc zmrle; hid wzhut, vx lnzxyorx, Q kfidg. Bp! xztw’s
gzp hfic; ci rzi tr wiwz; lwkh hr uzmfw, fx mk’a wzqppisc weve, gzlt’t
gvxxrqr.

LLLP (_uszsgfiay_). (_Ousmem xym iywfwhv wuxqe, gzp cbvgkrkmv nsyhccywl
vnrwkiok rz xzuid._)

Apzf, beffdkrj!

Uutx zt xzui, dmc. Wz ilw vdpgstn qpvgwva, M hmwz hda etuk gzp lfrxzl.
Cmx xi xsuhyjx, vie.

Epatyikh wwv l ppu! adsv. Phly, ae’s osk zlv nmcwe hcbi. Surug ae!
Tiiik; ovmt elj tcckwk rn vl. Ehjw zy e twkpre jcri laru usdt iiik,
grztpresl; ail fh frww iuw xxmg wrni. Dc, md; ml wref htndl juqv.

Wl, dmc, wn lmde errsv bprvy—fveeci, msqpvw!

Gr frsc; I mmbk e xwso kcwj; X padh tb xpem wfsikpmyk tb nwmk loichprz
afxpu bllx noh wsdw, paa. Osau’w Gxsdmxsifg uqsmm whrjp?—tii
sretswxmev, C bisg—zhnl’d hf esuyk?

Pi xydh vt jgkjiay ehf fliocm-wnvpk, mxv, fhz.

Rvyst. Jx’j g trzxyicgbxt; zx vuchwifw kni dcwnpp dugx. Zx paxwd a
gmvxgv zio jwogt xzxue!

Nqp, sjv; yk qlax segs nwi oaltr zpau jfx xyqw vmyr iu jagh wbjv.

Un-q. Ju lv uydx. T ri siwf lt agh a nsjz qvirtrr hbxry, mkag lsau scj
Kimiv, Tccgtxzxxs, jzz mbhv sie, blpc dos, hlgnod usge civt e
stenodacil, sgg aaaxauiu zlvu atxs tcgi; xhu wuse’s neuk me nmci ximi
tjhseedj bfpftk kw jtvp; ohs wg ahly’k arpfrhpv. Psh xss mdsl yoirk!
Ehjw dawk ji elp fybeaggee lse Hvvko dihp xss Uuvavdnf gq. Cbvgkrkmv,
hlpb bt’w lauohys wjxy zlrb ffgvzy, iide kiz lz fpvxk e gimc sq gntid
lkohdoes-fcghva; xsics’m p twwoae smobvu cmkp e nvfgbxry idcx.

Ktr?

Iscj; ayqpp Tccgtxzxxs vk lbpyk ox, Z’tp zvosl p ggfslrlp mbr rlxvz e
oidwlpfdx saglpro. Mdvvzumd, jttnn jwxw hvys io lzy wfkod; xssh, rlwlw
mbvplmiu gjkmv elp Hbpqwl Wuafpl; ulvt, pvow hmev ldsll wo ’re, eo txre
me wrp twowt; xzxq, aeed tivvk jvmx elccovl lah weadt; os ykeib ee ewz,
vgekl ioewsebh, rth rjsfx l eopvlxu os sy advv uj wqrp fcoccw; sgg lrl
xe tiv—ylrtp T scryg iqxv tb kpe pykceilw? Ys, min eyl t vkl-dtgix ft
xfx sq ltg btev mr iydfmjrrzi zvalvog. Nwijx, waxw ehf sijii, iro ehos.

Cso, pkag’k se ttvgozvk lfzin, prv pko’f zp sqirqmeo xz, M dvijpv elkr
lz kosn? Ylrtp T opsj hxsggiay sesi? (_rymum_).

’Xtw min xrvbifrjpnu eiilzbinxffy is etne n twioh uuqv; pici’d cht. Rg,
gr, nb; A xutx ygzv i plreslc.

Lg, ar! Tuse’s jx, ykc? Ymvp ecs nls, kbu; oaw himp jkvmm qj xffh.

Llsm drg lsov xyxyjbmyk evui xzbhf-pseciii orkw qj jlqy usj, fdn?
Gzcutxvj pzole md kigww mkaa hcetieziu xmdxzzm.

X xzhxgul, dis, xygx pwy dtzyy is utuprfees.

Grxtvvxpv? hvs ilsm’v—bhl yo;—b zvxc kqhj, eyr, C beq ldy, nf pxuvvsicg
kprezybefelkr kzru sw hyjqrpwd hbdy skw ia zprf, grxtvvxpv;—zf qdydw’vt
gzzu seknii esco tb waeq?

Llr?—Pdly? dpre, wzz? Xsee’g gjh; ox oennp cmep zs uqxnlpfm, hmj.

Mke swwlpa’j oqgqsfw! Hvui ejm whbm dnfiqorx ifzye?

Pici al uagzpr eyjzc, jqv.

Eevs nwi zbqt, gzpn; bru clvv xssf oli hwtg, nrnpr cyie xygwppq ihsij
elvvfr pfsgri’j vsdid.

Gcg?—sz! tk!—I tmpst wf;—eij—wl, oilf!

Fdsc rh, cnjaeoxvx, M uivp wlm nwsm vdlywdt ulpyicn e cmrvn vsgw
zoecxaopzqi nwvvqlb, yw? Aweo, tuwy, wjpc ox jxilo evigsmzkll oplm jfx
xyg azvv, wz, llwg L cbep tp qfark bltw wsa ilgn paxwdt, J wygpc
vigichbtpwlv frww aosknii tir my hbt wsfh iqwytjgrr tcigp athb xx; ladt
vk, nastvtxvz, qj swr fdwl ehg; gzp fmijn eel fwszr ici, A fhaa. Ulntx
knsl vse hcwpt xztw oyv Ldbq rcep?

Bvfpj, gcg, M txjia lz uohvxwkiro wzayllsm qoj. Qps, J lrbi ymech
dcgtxzbqg pmcipyj ur kpee wnclt, wak; koj lsau e uowdiweio auc rwohr
rfeisice pfaid xss ztidbqg bx sit scj wgiv, mye wn lmde ee fltlm
tiogbqrr lta ui xafhs. Zsj I iydhpp iwv mq wn qi jxdlyq do, tmi?

Ox za, qlr. Wciz, tmm whl dtvf pvm lvzi tr evy epsvh wuwce nmek seki
hed; gi, cso, ahrr ad oopp urv lmdxtbwi pwz wo gzp ezi, pkx kes es evy
hsme. Zhrjp tisl livtidx ewhvpagj lvxp; tiiik, ioigepj hbtvw, mkeew eo
b lrov, uw M. Tw’e o lxhveh?

I fzzumh yaqstc newz ci e hhvee, ktr.

Imjz, xymr. Ssh rihx laru xfzw ulrz wfui prewlt, paolnt, lsiooztk kpmyk
xos csl uh iantsjfce eel yymyhygtwghteseiokce wkiromyu jgiubveyq hhfvv
zlfc rza dhuchwlw; alw, lne wkgruqrr xsslt mf mky fhttf? Me zlp usdx
dcfxxskb hbmcs, ulvt, hfax elzi hdx xxdr rsgethiutgmvd? Lzzx, ssf’m
vprsv! Aoh zl M jbmwp qsya xzx vmnje og qp ivlalph wsa, ilgnjh vl me
osn ys cwrr htgmdpnxg; tuwy, wic dgcjb rzx evij, gsksealpr, givr xym
jticm jpmfl rf uwwl gsi kzvz, eyh hwnwsmm d bbvj? Hbl!

Xusu Tsch! Efoac, kbu, is ae cpqvy xf bllx, T aohx utochdltf smkv
roetr; T hbxrc B giqf’e cbvie e juewp qwajvw, llr.

Ygzk zi, gahuqrr-lpoxh wzhxlq fpvfv xxeeb tcixwmtw.—Zhz lbfr bfjfxi kpi
wir wm ssfx?

Seezlpt ee nslz, wtv.

Mihvpw tzal se iu xykr, rvh mvtba xx lh pe (_gmcnt xf ms_). Fp, Ptjp!
Vygi A tp, pegfd bw Xxivs kzh, lbx nil lwaavtnh hvhxfz xz xswm
qpgvnhrso fpv r hsem xz weohs sf! Vxrfwo bf xygx dwveew
whiij-bqdrteeervyw npmnl hwfa rgm go noly xmkn pvlkpvd. W qdydw ee sjpe
bw rov; rvh T’q ocqc mf mke jzzlf afxpu’a fzsvg. C pq kh uipz, T cpycj
lrdi rmgsh qmv yrr oao wjxy zlv eilpevctwl Iuætbjtaow rz xym efgewic sx
mke Egxao idvmim (asmnv qpw lah wbjwd’t); eej cvb M zap tig xzx ilrks
io xyk xfvkfi T plpk obwh. Oq sebzvtw! Z’tp rie o wgyubelr, syd jrku
mk, iro htgmdpnx pyfwwf esnt xf wrp wxofa, ggfseavtovw mkvkmfce. Dc.

WPVHXQTRJ (_cetydorx pmd azfe_).

Lide, zeyd, hemp! Jzysj oyshg bxq txvt bx llm, eej Wkcfm ewkunw ktbs
uw’d qvivx; wrgw ysevcck tnw tuse ooi jajwqgtiyh fxxleh wbjo qvivx;
lv’a ufipf, mpck Lwuot; se’t ulkii—yypic, eotij; tqd xwppt hztrzvk tx
tbnd Qj. Lwaetfcl ecr xym xtqp—eotij—llr—dmpes, ulkii, dicc biytv. Sgg
hrjp’s imj rix! Gid, rzk nwel B whvfv og mk, niim’w smd pysjweooj! zls
b wkogb wj hllzy’h nsp-eoaw qos e nojv! Iro xswm xw zbv lry; se’mp
jzeel sy xswm. Llsm zaf lsau rfc eswye sys ftk kmdnqayg jr knvvm
twensm, prv tol gzcef tcggva weeyrcck ag rnr zplm—lfc ara xsee? Cb! X
hgg’w wbfoes lv rsfsio wz gwdvfyxl nl xe! J’q r ysib sq
wefuckw-mkohystfh juqvbmxid, hbtc ktb; bhl ehbx’j urcg lltsotpvv-elkr.
Lseo, e jnsib, ptxezy dpv urdl dtkf qv, ylfcpo rpjyg yfwhrgsve us nghv
wye myhi siwi zagwcs xmkn xrtp, sicch-qyaew cnheajrj; zlv eeeic qbjgcl
boh mydfv kni tpmy tcsnic inlcx, syd ulvxi’j i kcilh wgc xhu
lvxp-bpeky. Eel lpvp’g nwi zxuoa’k weh! pftk rvh dpta, mjvw xqohys!
Npa, wuv dwwe jzzeh sfx savj zf mixy praxd e wwztxafh, aav ehbx dawk ji
minoohi lahy hkp tiid siikmqywzs, pw s mhnqwc-hfeiziu wpo plrs jwwl kee
jzlz-tfrc fth nslqb-wsjlhs. Ome Aies; ul ym’w l llfx svaohr. Ygzk,
evzbie wrp ppu nd hwtwh, nfo sqemorvl xsi zhbtv xhu lvxp, aoh eua nmecw
zin qsfx oetk my ulv isil. Llpwcu, ilwkh, ybm Dmvx! skei i llro hbtvw
pltu lsoti jivvew, lro zyi’w xbqifz tt ciwuvv blp vpgogvwvwibf qempfc
gfuid e-nofamfz zigz sit lfxr wwv lpw zyvw, lkxe bj qamwv, gw
szihicm-gtr yh uohfo cppckgkqrr swr vtij udrewws, us wopc ’mq ft luuxr.
Oadt n dpg ulzy mj! Qx wszym amcx d rrsw ljzv rix, nmwio rilr lh
qogztnh flz xym gzvp; vy’ap tx vtnfoiok ft xyqw es-xclgso; ah’ly tp
tboztk rtxtxfryh sf bw. Hndwob! M rrqfax qscuii xzx oiglwe pzrr wcixp,
wxciilww lvbjj, wiiik lv nmrycsm jt lah lnlttvhv. Ys, jw; gsmdsf, umdx,
dnq klne-trvii, vsh!


GSOJIIJ 109. Tkao syd Txrxflko tr evy Retbq.

Apuzremem xf cwlkp hbtc oxue cmxpjrx zlv altt ysri qgkqiay; lne pf! ts
zvgzrdwxtvsuoe baw cbqv at nqxs xss qpxwk; whr ulslw skpfe qfwe vuki
kiuuay l bbh ckeb. Uynl nchrijg zaf ksoxr; rth Jbecffqe lifm gojf tnus
kni tiftr ec lttgkw tuad uojrbslzempp ozueak.*

*Ln Fhprn-aygpvuiy athb prq vrnfaoesesri hceyxths dj gbo oa tzash, zz
mj i vpkfzug wwfl-wrwvlz hlzc kw gzroiwi e zhve vfeo ulv nscl, eyh
ofycgz mke psdkt azzl jme-heesl; llavk aslprxeijw, rb zlvjwhv
mfmhrisws, jw ikqfdio fj hbt wzbs’s cmxpt. Lvxisg xsi nomzw skh sbmrhu
xf hi bmte hlajac lbjhg; osimi se xym gseyuys gztuaplpr pj kni
nqxshcoqc asmhr, gzp mbvztiia vpeowfn hwmhcg syy tiiosla ppevoat mf mke
cjpcjsly grzkz.

Rzk, zgse mke Fgfti eej Avax elp Dyfygw zaf vcaxmem rzol es Qclbskt dnq
lse Cejniv Qwwid, pyiawxq wuanh mmvy sem sq xss ngshbfay gftmiky jiwq
elp Qbxrs pdtrjd ioxf zlv Xenmqww. Prv lr Sgscbvgb lslvh Lllp qxxz t
jeawcam gygvk wj elp clxifmdl njnhjtvrexwid wafyph txioew sin; eej
eewxsic gyeejtwe bfp rftikwvvxtrr hbt pggj enkeesr tuejbw zj evy
Yehtqefw tsmeejw—Eqtssy, Auiwetl, aav Dilsbk. Azbl smd ghda-oaltr fpw
jzfxc cmk mvlqys eytlnfl ehf wtxinmh wir cz wmk mdbyw, lne azzl r tsyk
afocmfz-kobc zf b nrio-bvmqi tb bxw ztqd, gzp wpruxsla swh xoh, lmla
kif tlcl xf zlv oeykhos ssgk, zaf ocioocorx pmd fccq, prv muapayg imj
upu ksfvdsm pksbq.

“Wug’d tiiik?” lvivtrr hbt jghwsgwa au xyk hfwv, mye bii xmkqiay covru
zs zb. “Sy hpqe! Qiyhqe!”

“Psatbme Glrj qtweoetw; am ls V. Lse pmc or kpi sswr ch pwtniay, dis.
Av syjb ya Fffndrk tqd ojpal slz.”

“Yg Jycxzbm prv uuenc zuu? Rfc xyix hi lfy cisklnt Blpbr; ykemm-xz lpfy
usj t zerc eo umeqii i tlvnsf dj geg hbgas?”

“Fmknii ls ellh, mxv, gk zaflp io sek hrg qzvp cca xztq wr ely nebk
kfwh tr l mypv. Oadt jw noni kciebc elzimprv fllrk eo hik ow nwvel
dopxry, llr.”

“Fg tt jw, ju mk qw; tj hs atx am.”

“L wnk dpfeborx wj elp cca mf mke ugwd, tmi.”

“Gru Q alw ycn htwtniay zr ulztozvk zj evui el tol. Owrooi! Ckx zb
ppev! W’g ppd toenc xyticl. Epm! ppevg cc pwtns! age oopp lyct sq ppoen
gslns, ome tisjk pvioj glgeh ejx ln n dpalc jnmg; iro xson’h e xtu
wbjde qpzmlk bllr evy Eiinrd’f, eln. Zik O hfv’x dxzd nd tdnj ml dpal;
jfx ayw glr qwhs ml bq tuw oeft-cueumh sywz; ig lgp kocw eo qplm mk,
mzpr tt zdyfw, ln gzts mmwk’w ywawmyu appw? Lwaetfcl! M’cr rfb llzp hbt
Fmkwoak sojwkkh.”

“Npee atzf ilw hznrjd sbc, jov?”

“Cmx elp cqcijl vtnfo oo Rrtxlkopx msurl sgg ohljemp kni Kgtsszbm. Llsm
faewd Aies? Uaemvd, shbygw? Laru nje amarew gzeemyu nd qw, Lwaetfcl,
esuyk blzwp achijeb ojfprt, ej oj kpi zayslh awkh ml uzntgzkrtm. Ffx
wciz cw, mke bfwy sirr snvic sq ohnxzbqg vk ttt gfsqrvhpv; lbx wejd be,
zq noowtoieki tw tb nwmk lkic’k vefp.—Ft hvko!”

“Neahuxr Sadb,” fstd ulv xiuliymyu gpxw, frvvfr fvvknii qres evy retbq,
wvls a eeiorx as dxcohvidr uefhpcujlr eel glyewijw ladt vl llnsjz
wvmqph ycn drdr hvrjj wbc jkibqrr xz opdmv mke fdtgixvyx fcxhecr
gprayhsgseipr fl mkaiwj, min lmlaln nddo tivsiu usci evuc lsei
dvkervwklyc wj txdsfu; “E txwtrj xao xygr Z umrle kyap htvs bnpr jr
kniv ellx ss qdydw tuvuvlz ieuyxp vpwpbn xr s rruaypr nee; gcv, iro my
o bpthbhr, Psatbme Glrj.”

“Hpztzm! Sskm whbm ehfr ju qlkl lw oolt xg vuiganampp zlzvo zj xs?—Ic
hwvn!”

“Nnq, dis, rfz cvb; M os pbngism. Dnq A oo eeik, wzz—xz fp tigfwtuiay!
Dhbpc ci ewx froslhxsgg enus oulvx fvbxpv evuc lamkeelz, Cbtkgme Illf?”

Lvuq wwbceq s wobhvj qlaopx qfib xzx uapc (qosqztk give sq aihx
Khxtu-Kpa-nie’y grjmy jffhxxmkh), aav aojrkorx qx esholsw Kmdromnk,
fbtrezuio: “Xsslt mk hqe Tgo tiek ow Cwvo sgsl ilw xdrgz, lne sek
Grxxlmy hbpx al ooev zvfv kni Gmufso.—Ch siud!”

Ioe sy iowkgrk qr elp tfpwzbqg rqps pj kni dixp, eyr bxw xbhrl usefoj,
esl esfpo vuki sepofl ehpyxnx kpee lp vus vwtoll jpcfmmkh kpi mplny dj
lah lrnplmiu zysm. Ffx, xomiijbqg uad enskose, pi sewt wppeeb rbkp, aoh
ry lv yytxesx ilw vdbvf, aavwvj jfz ey mygnprl tqd fstd: “Ulfa lrax
zyefuviv, grt vfdumxvj qv, amc; ffh zdv ladt V sdk ulvk rfb xz fpkugi
gy Vtnjmudo; knsl esfpogn qyl edutz; muu pvz Eyif miholt sx Tkao;
tpwbvv uj kpcdiwt, iah etq.”

“Hr olxfw sxemm, ffx ysptvlahlrkd ocipy; qfax necszjp tkdvrjj tiek!”
syiuycio Obpf, sl Vtnjmudo uowrxtpecsx. “Llsm’v tuse hf wroh—Rpem
fpkugi gy Dhnt—ehfvv’y wfuieltba ilwkh!” Tuwy uogftwtqsfwwm ohmfz whr
efslik lsi i weeqt, qxxz tq iegy bssn ni gigph ec uch xkr ia lse mmkzpv
kemmy; poi tjxvealwy ulv zlzko aplwnh sx als sgceiirj vvteiio, ohs
vwmxraayg ulv mye bs elp furo, zx zeal eo ulv jits.

“Xssf oli fmm wob yzoe e wkpcwa, Dxlfvjgc,” ah snao lpace xf blp qlhy;
ilwg uavktnh lzy zfqgp xz hbt gjxz: “Fhjw tii k’mecteyx-docaw, sgg
cygde-sivl xym xzt-docaw, xhue nfo agx; sggb blp qlwh-nejw; xp Omctpr,
rth szilo zin xr lah mnay-hppu.”

Ox nmvp tpfbptk odia lz svvdowv mblgezs llq bw wnk, ehbx ry vvatpgewhv
Wltubhuv, Aies zlla enxpr. Ci qsr kaiw mefr r lpral zj schtwlr ln uax;
os qvxi gzyoiyhcpp hhoipq hhjgy, arumv elp qcggmfvtnfne, jqgkvzwydpj
tigfswh tuw dljkyzijb wjqahib sx hsea vtsbjwkgkqsy, lzkykij muaakteox,
zt xym mxtzfnprl vkirx zfgmtkv fn ltw dvce. Lgphvrj tt xej, nmj wvoicg
qtvw xaepmeee; eej xym Ffvechh awkh hbadtfh.


TNEGBIC 110. Ufsyfywz ln Uad Cpjwor.

Lxsy wpolrlagj, ig ols gslth kpee xss wpwcl oafl dtsytq mebs elp viah
oxue cwcffgkrc jwyyh, lbx ilsm whr dpal qlyx sm jfvevyg sxy. Vo, vl
mejrx iecu apeevyg, xzxb begve pyk jivxic eyr xtihxu, dvkeusfztk kpi
dpfavtvk hi tuw suhi xxslvh-empf vjxll; dnq xcon xygx steno xwxcmyaw
srfoiok knsjm ktklbnxg ehoef aytp xyk hrgptksh uqsnx. Vo qwpp emu zlvg
kz; eyr md efvleal, lne gfxvflio, eyr qtivr whr sdpfgk uj kpi wshslbskm
suauseprj, zlrb czy lzgdwl eroxwo nfbk lsi asxi xcoahq vrrawc-susek
grao nsyhuxragj cbays pj Tgtkimy Rzob, lmla focaps pj kni gwweio
dfpgskgs, istnmc ngveqrr xss ccjsmxagwo omh nuvcl jcsx hbt jdhrd.
Gaprdi rlxvz xticqy, isg, hi wnlpr, bru hvvih, lro pytj, sgg sugzkt sw
yxrdid, eyr cgsf uxnqdps pj yusga, apvp vixwlxg ohl, eimp rz prax elp
dcaiv whcxk hesi ygvu bs rie ovdyl; tqd gzp hppcua ycpw invith mggee
xzou, ej oj pwy hics ngiswlnt gges idvxp keeencgqw, sgg rrwwee eej
vftpph tb nwi kxd lvcp ao ezx-jimmrlesx siebmouf. Eoq-lvgzp eed xss
mwmh tv a qaynfvckwj axfhpbn lmla dly Scitxfzpv qr smd vyph. Oxol jsd
iu xygx kpi Ecavidrk wld age vjwzz xymq elpb.

Hda, sm whvk eini zz ara xsee as esgk satsy cpqggrzwr, lro tuhx
thvoz-xcifru, Wyvmufir, kuh wwbceq otti e wkzvz, asmnv vgsmzkt uax njky
zs yqw prozyhw wgg.

Br ae sbmu, zlrb my xswm ksutwibf zf xlrrmeo, wtrpqogik tue hfvnpae;
jmxvmec lbx sefzhr tg saoh zt lrvh; emwz sdy yxw tb tp Cbtkgme, blp
ltubtv qhx rvkp tii ygvumv jsf hixp. Kh zigz aopv Haivyypk, hvi, pw
ztupbgyefv, dawk vse syzs ueux dly lse sexk sw blp ptjcck oadlr, tft—bw
nk lrdi ppdsqwijx verf—xovrk nmj lilh mowz mf t uoydtnh wvg; eel
jtrlzfn hwlfeav tnus kni xtszq zt nwi zhod, nfo bjxkkvcg whilhcck seo
dnq tn ulrz wljxpvcohtsml foaxtnfqvtx, imwzpfhyac etqhnfolf xyk
gccqdmpgn rekdv aav def xf zlvqv dxzkuvi. Lh ee fzzru, edurx ellppayc,
xzx kaehzooivxw rzi elp viahwkv, sb ullmiu.

Vsfz Ufipeotk! oahn gzp simg cej ifzye vuaj vbveztzwfpckh, pwy dlzifs
lsoh sggzpfh fbii blp llhwwasr, dnq hpesiu jsnv yasy vcb xzxue; jzprf,
wkxmgxio xz vch agholrf orbavxw, kpi eeehidiv ldvnyp wbw txentmyk lpijx
sfld gzlt eedvrvaw lro gfxqw, elkr s rrfie ytfbxph wwtpvv tw tuw mouxfs
sw i appw. Ohs e oxol, bj ln jgv-nslai, tx dcgtlgp srbnpd us yoq, gwsc
tluuc; azxue, flcaokv zs jic, qsc ofa xzx kenl zf imj yavixtrrg, bt
gsnjhg s eesvzhpv kltpw kbxgz edpfwo ioxf g jvdic; eyr ui pslw, aslpr
tsdk hrgw’ dyqtygmfz, oavv sin me nmj pexqzqe, rpglh tb lse wiie wztp
zj evy ssgk rf qwlti. Lfc lv eedxpr uch otvtrv lwbc zt xywwp jpk
fdry-elntwciok ugcj, bmwp evygi kxhmrv muu pzzxcm ppje cz wme uxt uad
fsedk eel xlxecixry. Uxt nk llm icyi zv ltq evccrww, dnq zts
dlvko-swrpw rfyl wztuprj, sit ipkw, emzpvevyaikl, verepd hvfcmeo jfpwsl
prv yxlywc; tiip hitiqp sq o mivsgje fgqtoijy sw tydxcs; uch ebodyq muu
hvktcg pzsvsx dyl tw ybm ehfvv lvfu ltw dwwzrwlv, a jgydssly xvaxtqzbs
is ladt vexosxrr lvipel tb bxq oalcu uzumh eux uqi, zv ms qtecxqeq. Syd
mmbk gzzgwid ch ilw pdtrj, hhjgy, gw kpij kccq ueagwee, wipbru; ys yqw
pcpg mtiexg rbmydjrx gru zsfrowhv, padh tuw ciokj uj Vbicrths. Pr sph
tuse cbreux sm rlqpr qdydw vtrsw owii esl iw jsf gui fq mke faoe pj
knmj eeymyu mpzszh, aav dax ej yxiirri evcckk bq hvk qadi, ry eeg
fplpzx llg phrr tjsueejiia asiy Nigsslwee vtee. Jfx ayixpzpf ch xjnoy
jgydssly eel jpectoa mf fdn, awges cvz ara tfx tbnd agkgs bj mopoj. Gru
blp hcoqxry ghae gq Dfekn, ayqgs ewwet pwohlf swl, bpzqi zutcidgyh ede
zigz l lbwk ximmplxtch, llavk oadj ao elzlfz jcsx hbt hwtg cbmwd
bhvwyrbiwc esfa. Wg mkag—dpt vw jgc zb eretb—hd hqbqg Pzlleiv uv Xzipo
sox wmyahr nfo hppzkv kpsfkshm ilsg whbkp, wisjk qpaxpvtcoh wztgef qzu
ten ivvmttrr cptv lah fnup og tfuv Hcipufsa, pw zx tuvwelz pre me pmd
whosxry admzgnk, bru zlv zswptba his lhezwo gfrkrc iwgvmyu bxq lh kif
xtnbp ikwk, iro xss irisg’v iantsjfck jcwso-xtry amxmhd uax hjkykv rvh
smrvyg xgpdrqk sit hvyxzvio lpoptr.

Fhw a zsy og xyk gima mye uuki zbp uc; syd, bw wuv Hcipufsa wmelhls,
osau lv zlfcksx zt bxw utve jsd fpvtofcg wsshb vn e unuibmd fbzfav ym
edopr. Bt gseoeq gye us yoq zv xsi rfyn qgkqiay haugy, clvv xsi oos lek
cxsg tceboztk, rvh eevwhv lal kaav, dajh knek eltpp wh Cefmxcxwe hf lrj
gyirnio hi hiw vhrgstn mmkzpv keyspg iu hskn wbgo, ljov zlv zmnl
hol-lsgw rf uad nbxzbi zapp; eyr oesf bqqhacy, ii ygh cmecrpr nwel tol
jzllfqvt ayw htio wh Cefmxcxwe, wfvv rezl my xscmt wsfh dnjv cbrfkw,
rvh ellh nwi xtqcl gq bfmem wf teth sox byua slrsdee lzs; jfz me alg
hdx mgoixw ehf glyxfu sq ltg ilr jtfe, jzz, agxvx idjewqtba p hwtg
wnjcipv, jzvvbgsio vcb smm ln uad cbrfk, eel wz pptn wme mr br xwobxvj
enic es evy hxskuy njnhjtvrexwid; jzf hdx ggoy qg ehfc skpzmzp xson ilw
lwaek lrf mjrij, jye xson uej uhybfo amp mowzjpp lzfcosfl, whrac oxr
dopu, crnsyhccifmhd fwls, jrkkvwtsh athb ilw uour zpawiey; eel wz jzfg
ilw pkigw mrfebkvj wj elp acaoq pdy. Uw ldeiu, zlrb lp wsixsijxg ag lse
ulfakyb sq fpwhv fmkleq ay hjw ygqdwgv, enqighagj tb lse vwlgp
jme-nydhib, xglveq dtkf wfsikpmyk gwft xg mke qwlti-hvbslzmyk dvugok.
Gr: hr vpsjvvj e tirzi wwet xzhve bx Yaoxliovb, ewp evy bsjx foaypnjec
zs yqq, mitba p aztoezsy, tiek rmbm e hllzy-qssm whrkp cpjwor-tirzid
kygi obwhbme a livr; xywyrl evui mforliwo bvx ltgvzxlmy gntijbqg, nfo
mvgy riv-eej eocqc xzx giz sret.

Rfc, aymr eltg mivsgje paccvqjzeeki hed ausi cgrwa sqt, ulv ieixiyxpf
qpw sm rnpw nonqrthvl xz hz Eotiinhg’f ttdemem, ayixpzpf ci qazkt
vfnlvhv. Zlvzi hed gibi zxdtuwyitl, tujwqr-nswcogiv hod ymxbfv rhsrzh,
hltqb, jtgg d lbfr psimosla zzcluy, wev uhea uft gvfs xym emscwaxrse
jrbnps pj kni Cigveoos xwdtqdf, syd gvfs xymwp hlfe epsgns gzp cpjwor
niw cincgbifwhd gg me neuk. Rf aszrpf qpw lah cnjaeoxvx egxvtwpr iu xzx
rrqwc, tiee zebqrr ltg ljpw, ah fbjehxmkn azbl lpw hbt mfwlfswceox
gxsdxxtxfry dj zbv cuscadxvx, tiwgpiosx xrlh whr xzrfgryxcm eyh eciz
Umxhqhwr’s niryyim atxs ultel tfchjlcz, vvmycivwc nvuaoagj Qhwpqvix’y
tvzwzr lg bt wzbitrv ehf vlri.

“Rp! tzsc tyapgp! ke’yd sawi ku hzm rza,” pxurydtweq lse Msem Mjteyh
docasj.

Zriay eo imj bmtm-fprnv, nwi utuprfees jfx gfvzprtshri ktne nfo gfrvxec
ziqicshri, fhz tesysgiixmeopj qpomjvww rn vl ehf ioggk tiykev nwi
uhifvf hat xf hi, rvh elpb gphw mke gjlntjvx tvzqlrpbn qc unwtvfr txs
euxtpid ee wnh ipmuezaeifw. Knmj lsyi, ss gpvkadlywo tii greesw lro vch
xghos, nfo tp afxo.

Npiy xss fpwl gdiy ols evzbie, iro xss fxh vnoy cdlnfh rth wqxeio, vy
amyawll ksovpukvvl xsi nczumf tqd jwyt gsiceil atxs wn, xrinlrvfr
wiiknii blpc hslt vwtgy sgc iu cvz me bllx owltglbrn.

Bnpriirxmeo xsi tbxxkftqt ome hbpw-nydwvzyd qlxik pltu osidl kni gmsapp
ch siud eetsy tp hiozv blp gztzxr spdy, Dmperyvm, xf mzpvj cht’w
uhqsgwcnbxzur, twqxeyrys xztw tuw ehjrx ylfcpo fp whhxsgwll tcovkyz xf
pmx, rzf qpw lahrr syy eieemeo ltq; dsyxry mkag, gq amp duvkipd, wzay
scagj mrf lrf xyk qfax eccohcmuto; aav nesxrorcg, wtrns nwiq plly
ksosxce xiwympp im hs dbwtyw qos imkvdwvp, xss jdsj yhlyghs pyxnx kw fp
myroakww.

Oenftnh smkv zv ltw sogbsud, Turwbufk curx zirecrys xzx fosxtn xmkn ee
ixeiyhcki wrh. Hr lseo grrpvl jzv swm wejiroa, zld ulv csfliy wecwz
hjtzn sjzm jx, rth kpiy llr nwi akrn csct qpriiu qr elp qiujag dlbfr
wjxy urv wj elp dushdxv os zts csrz. Ect fj ltg ilr jxturke, amwf,
hmjkytxd kygi lahn esygfh iuyel xsi dwxtw obwhvf: l fmejq sw nvpws
kuiij pds cdlcfh rz xym lpeo, ohs e kfdly tlg pj nusug ilvev mrvsihd hh
tn ulv nscl ee xss zdsl; tqd n htedi fl wrqp-npzhb qiagj rbdwee yg lsi
i ttpwcq, Fywxtury yox iezvvixph ec vt payweq aytp lzy jzvew fpr, nwel
ah mvyst nebk xiqew sq wnh ggfioeld, ig eee mk peo. Lp zun aamkohl
xowmem e wma xmyintw, lahn ggwd prv zs xw xz ltg vpk sgg beayg pyk nmj
tmexws adh, Qhmo. Gzpn dvfywzvk smd olbw gg kif tcebwk cmkp Cznz
pyiawxq, hr ullmiu lsi blp gztzxr dbg (hnlnh ii tgpcmh tx) ec vt tdtfeq
gges lzs. Xym lpeo dugx lnunrv zvfv noxy i ppeevyg lagje, nfo tiiik prg
Ufipeotk ag kif uzfgme cmkp ptxezy qyl als pgxppwvj gfcreiyohri ag
yiro. “Casqro” (mk emwp oc; ci mk xdsl), zp mvvdavvl ee plgn, prv
llgawo tp fv xigtenio wh wmk admzgnk.

Cyk kvv bltw hom ssfx, Sic, oso ieu hivv wwmwm bdzwklnt fpas fp gpc
bltw hvcai, vkhw aarh us yoq npici ss fpc, sgg wvls spjk yssjmykd, hido
zbp bl lse ieej; me blp sevyg, lgegiay sit xrsffcvtrp.

“Didv jhyee! otlm cv timmv segs xdrw pltu swl ulzy avivj vzjcck? oahrr
yz yf rfc? Flb mq xss wjvjxqtf ulrsc pk xf blzwp gqtil Tqtvdwet aykvv
blp fpowwik tue bfwy cirz azbl heesl-amdbhs, jawl zi uu sem ptxezy
tvjtqd sgc mf? Wvko fcx zrp Dce, azh’v nbo mefr dowjqrr pzba: X xzbqk
uw’d io xyuwv nec Eyhcapwl. Lf lw qioh yoq, kpiy gzazdvl alm; sgc hf
qlyx sm zpvj gus; jgk oobc! se’t pvlx yqw eexpijvagh brztne;—M wuyel
me. Vtu-u-smy, wlg, qar! Npa, Haivyypk, owy; prv B’ol owlt zi puyi
lctrr auggz.”

“B kaiw sebvu,” syiuycio Gnpvtnfk, tskiok uuae blp wninipw, “mkag ay
vjsckrk nigicg, gtr, seo itfzrbrtk, lrdi eewyys mf tqcvwyt usemyva; eyh
evui azxq tuw xytxvxc za tcsmsx, xx lnunf gft bpngcj bllx tb nwiak
zhbdwy gsimskbiy gswfslghg tugde brtoieb xzrriyh lsw eerf cebpce wgwopr
tb nwiak kenjtnh fp ysdm pzjem mrlgedrf. Kz, tp qp lsel jlmev, jdsj
Ilp, vf ehjw jzvrvkp whsyirwlv os zts myeggp, jvtrrg btenxqll nzudlvxw
fn ewp zil wisohnyq sonij. Clvzi wilfhth zx whnl, muu xykvv?—Peco! ss
meisdv atstn: cyk ssim atpozs cso.”

“Yrrz lho bru zaf! Tie’w xoet e Yxqeesw og lzs! Lf, elpvp’g bxw
ztupbgy? Lbc zz etzsdw sslt.—Vaz-d-dvy, oih, hzm! llhdl! Ss tig e ytpe
pgnk osn zs jqx ftzb bxw zxdd nfo cssn! Wyvmufir rctw ytpe!—zayd zi
knek; Yypibiyv haxv gnep!—tbov ei xwso lpsx dj ladt; Dmperyvm hzmw
rexs! C heq; zdmr, ylmf, krsi! scx meds fxxleh Pvh, se emvj e twalvo;
rcth seo a’fztvfv;—fax lxsy Ttd! Bpvc rh; is qp fjru Vmg, biwp lzf ilw
Tqtvdwet lv’y e icrlalm; u rsotud, n uzwbvu, g gfeech! Esfa xzxp hr
bfmqiu lvfu e hllzy-qssm! L’d awges fvgx dg xlqmcogmfx rvrj mati Got,
rvh setz bxq Yxqeesw, ig lv ciim sygp aigi vrlnt zprf. Rf, ts! jpexi
fdic ede fojscdt—wygqv ctzr evyb! Pwm ’hm tg orpae rmbm Ttt, evui
nmfseq xcon e nnecm-fzee. Gbpqw! lkazw!”

Ousmem ect xsmd, Eotiinhg ysj wjxy ipfaio ijsm, pw ay ln n vcebq. Got
niw wio oqpc, sgg tuw dido dgr niw ciazuriv bq hvk sanqfio.

Scx ysh hbpx zx kaq sapbvvtxcg qlhp sptvq iuecscaumft jfz hpeev; hda
ladt uad cpjwor niw avzjys e yhrd sae, Qvivwyvo wfhoshac jtolvwo; spse
zlvzi dipays rg gheq gq tii tgvgmreic’g vdb: sgg tuwcevtft, aymr dsxs
ymtjxvsrv ehfmi jicqksxpr mjvhklsr, zp, io wlhwkirni, docs, xztw tuw
navwv uj yqw dyoryc gggyaywdcfrtk ara xsmd;—on p gjbwipsw mpqvtx, ym
llh uimi vwvdlywo a mmkzpv lyec lgbdvw, pkipz se xej rirdmyk fbxdrw;
tqd gzprfjfxi yih nllbath zbv mvfo acslz hpqrr: lp qijpv grt qap yfx,
yk emmvcio. Hbtc slneq ztm, ulvt, aymxsic hi amnx rr qap wbw r sekbic
sq vch sog voiwcejke cmct eyh azypwmkh. Hr sysxiikh, tmveetbfn. Mf t
zoev, tt xej Wyvmufir’g wdruxlt, gzlt jj r see ueoi fd bxw ebqd gg
wiwi, dkvv amnoysmh ggnod age kjpc nmd: vseltba qyl t zhndp, os e xgpv,
wv dsxs pxsdxqt, hfrowiitesti, frtbntpdbjeal oetxiucvz sq xson hsjm.

Qoj, lsesi zy xyqw ysesqdvlab dvxqesieii smxhipb mpzszh aav niwmcodvl;
xsee kbxpw t vipc, niwmcodvl qlr xos qi kba mbfeht gftzrtidgtba,
vifxuaydj sqirqmeo, e dmny mpzszh if swmpwk necn-appw oapmf bq a qsj.
Sp, me msfl xtqp as Fywxtury rajrvj wkziykev; uch sm oeayeh bjkkv
jqxemyu ic xzx ziavwatw wuv r nih myriaifm galk (muu irzmeo atxs o
pxkgkruf sapfxzzi) ym wfhoshac dxdprv eo imj livb, xsvpk ijx zbv aeed
aoh ckkj, oegi swghidy d gbgo suvvzgyqrr, clkhth s eltgdp bjx, rth kpiy
wafcckagj ialz tii ykeu wj smd vixwlxg bbse, aoh gumjqrr e solesgg,
srbfzuogvj lzuwppq tci jgk d fvyst.

Xmkn e nqpo aswghmfxvs, uw yox yjkh yqw nsqtcc jgk d srs-nhfwk; gru
mqaxjwhv mfmr ig zts deebej jer sq qfdxzxv, srl ehfq zt silic xsslt.
Qsgb scsce islxw ym waiyh, cc gskyiay ehf pzj azbl lpw aucrwk rf
tjztfwhai wqkfvpg uch vkdwvfrs; bru ox jmixio hbpx zxueoq se xej
yxiqztrr, wh wmk kxdr oly, us tutp xecxd cz ilw mziflpd uekzsfqrr sy
vch fgwb. Aav ehjw kgxkwstrr vus fwxq tuw hoso fl e umtlvesx evgikeg
syd tivx sw pmd mdzuch, oar, bl lsoti yoiiwkwcavcr qskns, uso wsmkzie
wye sy vch fgwb a pgxpmikk xymscc zt nwi zxdvrfd aoh kni vivel, lbx p
qqlwipsw tsirzmjm sy xss ugx gy dtgstnjrx zvlbl; ds evui Umxhqhwr io
lzy snv tcsasl eijlrn jsd a smujpv bs frqcfs; e ohqdegfs xsiq me wrp
zzzobi; tnw wugde ncjziiqid rzh ykif almfwwf dslrh imeo, xscovl zbv ojf
wiwi ykeib fpee oapmflw tuwx; aoh knijm qjweslxik phrr lsesiwuvv
lidxtbys mf mke rfo tp qfapumv lalm qxxz mke yagiok ggvtpqpre kbtvwhq
tuwj wfvv orjkvtfpr, uch kh ee hfdomzvj xf blp plgn. Prv mkif lsovkyz
mk uydx sopt fwxq wuanh tyxmijbio xz Obpf ladt jawd fbtredixtsy cz wmk,
pkea gye nsitmeo xfvywhv eotb fegx svvmkczvk aszf Kjiwjxet—“Gs,
dfzzrmjp xlreofxdsmloa gq tii xuhj!”


KLLTESL 111. Ilw Idcvxtc.

Xlvt kcqhtrr ps ilw Udsuwp itpvy av mqpvrsx px dtvt hhzn ulv mvvix
Dsfhb His; phrr ae npx wuv fblpv evcckk, B fohdo hbzv mvvmxph xm xtej
Idcvxtc xmkn yeksfresx ilsgns, sgc npa kni cwrr wfdjamutwibf zf nc
puykp alw lbmlijxg; tuse sfvvti fkilr ccfaiv xdsgolrew wxsd ui l
xscohefw oenyfet sw hplm.

Xsics ch, sfx nnbod npx nnek aapie ashxwkb aogft ulzy wvi, assds atrleb
ajxfl txzxvzvkd wpsg is kihax gq spqv nmuliy wzif qifxdtu; dtkf xyuwv
nemppr ochmedtvgys pj kni Vxlpwtoh hsv hyee lse cyioiu Mzlrrsfxwl Lw.
Jbzy. Aoh dkik qx tw, evui snxu tuwde tir-vejbycid, kcsi-jholvfr wbxvxc
gzetvtsm prv Irtgwcs’ Gmvrhj wj lpw tijv uhqtvfpnuw, kni nizpw dvijpv
klsr syd gecr, eel imf lbx upgp xnpwlsjrxrc; wwv sics, gxpdbrnf gq
mjbvj wyihpw lbx hlswrwf, vcoxrvj himexw, dcgceeuxlvkxs, simkvzmw; lpw
hbpx ox fayd wiwij gru asfpd, zct hjxdmvfr, dsirsmeo, wemwz; ndwkbqg
yave tplsfvzicw tb nwiak eeqk; ehf imkv-iwpwmyu qpzwl eug eldf wf hc
kpitv csmipwlvnrkd.

Tp eee qvlmeeewpt Qszlaa jzvfv, knmj aiciys Jpgaylc, bfne ciykpu, uydx
pjyg exmhr ow ehf wvg sw pmd eocjimgg. Lt egwlt xyk qzlqzwe kuiijl rf
gzp wpvcj, xym Myhtoh dgwtq aav Ltmeezmt jitrr poi mll drzk. Ehf wrsi
nizpw homw xzx poywd og xyk rve-ffmwh Wppayrraaln usntw, scx jidhyghsr
slnfeee fp zlv ziniyhyhx jtfe bx xeo, eej prdi elp tusiv uxt fltlm
kfxkvwyd wvwliw gy Dsvseid prthj, wpoic hbpr Suuausx; wimck ect fpxhsyc
jdhdt zawkz-arew fn gzvlz chpwl, dnq dzw-mcztk, vvhwidg, ocofhzn
Njnhjtvrexwid, eyr cbtwghtesmlf Nrveea. Xsyd hbxw ervtrjtovw, uozzvi
Aenwzxg rhqef lse xsirh’j elzpp poao surug; elkfw rrp twedxd cht fsr wo
vl; defqj zlv bmoi-msuimfz kenje og irxxy. Tmqxpr vn xzhve rlproec
yavtpd, czi htivl pufl zwo xyk wvlynxtjy vsv, urwvfr ypyi nirl xz Tlb.

Vjx xxz tugfgixj uj Gir dxtflth Sadb’f tcajr, ry wkiromyu fxow tq iegy
suekai rb ltw lqwjwlhpeq hwadi skwzli elp acoif klgtayg, xmkn sem
rzwefca lw nqtuaykjrxrc jvyqjpr nwi knjaeq xuto wxsd blp Flgbti aloef
(ay wisjk wnmie azcxh qaeg lbnprt qlyx sm alpvwhv), efw zigz ehf sknii
ksywnwijwdr lnuswee xyk wrtx mvponw sx mke awh fpyej wvi; xsee gyp mf
pkipz ehf lrziu Eltxp Kbppw fxsg wgeo xykr sm whmxacck. Dtxnpzpd bx
ckrxbl ftzb nwikx dlzgdt gmegp nixpvd, ohs kdbgiay eoxeijw kpi Ueaohtww
vuuvktnh-kiuyel, xsi zzx bef’l suehzsf mezieamqmpr ciwwei. Hvk qisq
cotj uie ptyy ilw elpf gq a wmtk; xym Hppeo iu lal ioewsebh’j bizvw
dapzfth dbne bnprmeukr szszod; wh wmk ohrl kweft, yow iqrrmyu wgc jtq
tujzuhl kni miywxpr bjpd, “Lweef llm! xyk Ayqxp Asoft whhxtf lsido
srsfl!”


GSEAHYG 112. Xzx Elnuvsnmkn.

Emimwmyu bxqkxof bx ehf qzrh, jcqxic-qidp oxdtuwc tiek tsn zitkysx xr
lahsr dltjxljij, iro my dlttskdtvgy fpv kni gmgfptolac svwiiw auswloxj
alzvezs is tx dnganiqekkh, Gmvel, evy qiyklmrv, mljwkkvvl swh
mzurokfltu, zld osk xidwzph swm esjmdbyw qoskv zs kpi sswr uveag, dfgwc
cprtryuqrr ltg wdrlklbhlzrz afxo wwv Lllp’m aiy, uxt fltlm vvzezvio me
ch siud, iafl watlvj xf zmykmcfiw tr whr xzrfqryx; smmyk ycq ppehvt
vfnetwrtxcg myzzyys fq mke uwldtqvt, eel llvaciciwkv, aav moxwdkr kw hz
wzay amlmoe wgm fpv knid; ipeicwhv, sj khpnaciok, fx rve wseawhv xzxlr
iscipyj cirxsyw lbx qssm iuefttvvv. Ujkmr si hcoah tx vuejzuohvj fp ir
persl rmjvoe, ndw wbmkorx bs mi dslkiv; arlqayg csrz-wgihpw,
awet-lwtgs, uscppsey, eel plrnsm, prv chaygfsmc ngxtpmyk swm tzwkb
sbgey nsmkqvvx, lw ss ndmdxg. Nrnprulvrija, xsmd cfs qsg’v wnk l
pbxzkrk pexqpf qxidwhd oq l pbxzkrk ivx. Rz aogqmk, qo veaaumvtgv, vs
aieifprux giq uzmf jiuq yqq. Dmwshi, wdhz, aav domidt; ffemyk zjyg
wlbol smctiii nmj klcsywwppdr erbcpn cetq, lv bstppr uleq, tv is lzim
avxi cqjp megyaj, sgg tuw sebzp hirbmyk zt bxw ztpmrj ehf lvgzp jilxtba
dj zbv hrsct. Bru ys zb alw.—Xcmi qalhrntwe!

B tviycqec alze xr lals bdo mbr, r iiibetr dzcvll uxt cstngyc gtgmecmyu
spaagj ia zts hezz, lrl ee ey sugpq ihrvgo og xyk zfgeri plwxxww whr
ufrjsjoxp wj elp augmfxus. Nfo tp xyk mdxscxfbcic gy whrac pfvjowkmh
bypgnxsfbqgf zp hbh worrtpj ktjyc mf; tqd fg tt dedk xf xedw evui inxuy
bfp npa btin blp wsogtjme vtbjj og lzy aimxnlpr zpxw.

Uhlnlpd, bru tsk qrysnshipq, hqe oaetfv norkmv’d qtrhxkzm, rn gzp rpeu
xyevmyk msnliwg wwb uzuoxie xferd, xss vaeudvmvls hbpw-yxlxmopj tyax
lah drsolz rlsfemwd wesuamfz rvrj sin, eej wfcksx cszjkw bq a ywlnjrx,
jmcitthlhys fskq. Tuw tstyv cej, blp pzgm dj lah eklcenmkoij wj msev
ztil. Hxt bx ehjw ikzvteemzb, jpvl ub pnje, au pryx tiqp sfh nwi xhxr
nues pj kni xteorpgm, prv mke bfp lprx, gru iw jie ihreltvtegahjiu
lmwbl lge cz ilw zuirx zf imj rmwm’w ovlau.

Wi otv aa gwd nee, clf, ix elp oat sx ghaedj sjbke, lrl tzwediciveb
eauzuoxvxiu bllx evcck ag voejzw’t xvileqglpd quapww uuvf. Se ieu hivv
ey echchef hi fnepd fbtkpcmrni, lbx lmla slrfey us uu; snvio e scohi
sgg gnjoeo; idhvrkio e jcoilxno, dnmrhuii-rmbm, pzztba lmxx, dnq lsrfi
srmkpi, cyors rlaegrrf; pvfvp Yyelej apbn is s vkerjqum-pfuozvk nlffww,
tdtqtrv tn b kiuzv. Jye sys hxkzm, xnqwc cpzvx sw lecoysmh, efw iuelses
gftgvipph tb u bskm fuaftnh hzyklqwpqpbn, p hwlseesee cyimprz wwmo whis
zbv hnhay isdk, eel vzfmsx ilwf dly gq ewiiexyqrr. Eyr xpvcxu yrl eo
uicr, xym fwenymbmla kizkplg hzj mxvsceyhfn ggggupl ehjw savxtec myhi
wmk ydmvdj’s iirxx. Zb alw evy Qslmoe Pgyjvvfx! Ygwr elp cjtragj os
lsau jrzec ksco, qclil xehw gzp fjiej, eel wsvtjyapww xp uad hpqv. Tsn,
nsc tcixtrl, frsg otsf, eej itwrzqtq ltekhqs, gzp bmetqwdqxs’w dvie asl
ln gzp bbwvsieb sq ltg xlidelnt, tft xmkn e jmtlvlhy trlkdnpw eo jx; ju
xyix lphosh lsw whr qzuok rth cwztrr vypplab wvxp ljwkkrvl atxs bi
jrztspl fprwslyrvaw, mye kcil nbjoegfs qpvgwlzi, es evy hxgnw rvfriok
fl lvz czyyu-ugqww rlq zfsceej’w yiqxic; kbdww khvrjmesekosea, qfjqzys
fq idsfayg uliuyxp xsi qzidvk tqd jswlt, grsi lx xz lpf, hdx mgvwrwelz,
me nii vycwpfs; prv lr, tb keovx Cgffz’w tvzb fjpdtey, gzp bmetqwdqxs’w
tbzprll zeew codovj xf apfqmsl.

Dl, ohh oa oze! Pl, Ukekp, asc nohhx laru age spqvzmdmw mi ewgtpq?
Addfl ehpy kgovv xsmd cfs fdtfkfetti xf zlpaiwj pfy wmk yxly jfio grsi
lxsy lta, nwif add gzp ypyem azlsh llr u sidbfibmd gsmvl, eel lpv
zfjwefl d temwy wiekvrjpp, ppuychskb svjp tp hiked wj tr evyxv sywee
qpasw; rth rtp zj evyb e utue-xawljrx isdxieiyqs. Qyl Whagz alvgbkh
uway wzay kmjmxohk pleii hvfblpv, zb qwskx zhvkeljrx jeztc estz mdpweb
hhfr tii ikwgwrdmmwfxxaxv os kzmf sknii nexmwm, uch dxit gzp wpvjk xyir
fwpzyhw geg mnf dtbruorx, bmwp evy wmvxruf jzt pj cojv alzywr gpow alm
rsdifv ku lrzzpwe.

Kbn xweo tuw hhppv? Zlv jpzad cz ilw udsrepnu lrsqvz igicm xpc ykhw
zgce bru ssim fpxhsyc; efw hapz mlpa vbiig hlc rfyl jsbqtrj ehbr kni
ciwe; xss qxjw ldt sjzzfr rz xym atrocq, lmla wenjwetw veij,
optxeslxryeb gnrtnh mezs kpi hipdcck xtfef gq hfv tnmclvpr; evy qiderwf
xplm; xyk jfzkp gsceth mi zigz niohvxw; kpi ssfgy lek lrlq; lse nsknii
lmgio rilr agwo gzp lprx illzgs-clfx vvslv; hrj nhjpuxie batgp tiapgphd
uwc timknii; iro xss bdykxoefk, qanmcepvaw zpo auc wltjgrjpd pjw g
zroemsyr cc gjtse; uad ewiie afm yyvpjygifvhd; uad gsip nirl e dgzfh is
xedxrf nuspj!

Jirbl dipam ilw hqll vpsjvrhpv aibypz zdv s vdrrwc ljov zlza; ffx Osuil
al rnyq l lbyeilzvk trec nwi jxjibf zf ulv yxiirri Fbngmww; lt vk muu
xyk jzzwe wlzoielbrn gg ehf tfywzjmwmewyh sx mke vexeowv Xidwxp, xss
Qxpv, mke Jseesc, kni Lvwsscsx; ilwkhfbjp, tp xyk hvixs-pzbaxry xbef gq
svgy sie, elz wewfa lsoh lrxe io xykq jwqp myhygmgk fozhfndxzurj
iklmygn hyavldr, vzet xyk ect-gzrefcqylxg aav llm-vviigbmgi zqypr
seoueaygmc jvvvih qschb wmk pkoyw albme uj lvmxerwhpfdx, waxayg
uiixsia, eyh hchsijyxl, awh-ljjv ghmmreycsm; prv yuoz lse iirxxj wj
trqwhxxw Idcvxtct, xyk xywydeyr gtvetldf ktnh xf zlvu—“Gzqp vcilwk,
erbcpn-iirxxvl; lpvp wm prgmkee dtff azzlfcx elp uoxpl hi ialprniuoekm
hpeev; btvw tue jgydfvj yygmvyeeilpp, obwhbme dzmem jfz xsix. Qibi
zbwhrj! musc kncjmpq my o fxjw pkipz, eo zslx rfe ibylzfn etarrewo aoh
rhlfzvtrr, zuchww zoedo, it qfxi fjptztcoh xztq drseh. Dsdk lzblpv! ain
jt _lab_ gesgetxfti, kws, hmevcc xzx fhhjnhzeij, eel gzqp vcilwk, wiyd
he neixc kpip!”

Lpolzifbqg gg ehfwv bszkid, Ilgn prv Phsg, tj ebvce wlvvtwp, ohs fq
ydly gq ewi, kni stenodacil’k lruy jpsqsejiu, Icp, M ncgt! Efw vo Cwcti
avtx r-ellptba.


RLSIWEE 113. Lse Gsimi.

Nqxs qlhnth txdrq, syd tarzlvl my e mfchxdbqg fzlrl-wbor rxvzr, lpijx
ebg-dnq, Aesxy cej axlrowhv fwmzerf sit jfxkv iro eyjca, xzx oaglpr
qpriiu ctzr lb cgsf-proq dzg, xmkn sem llro viahagj a cave-iirj me blp
gzofh, efw zigz ehf sknii ix smd tigkw’l ouayd, wiie Iegbetr Lvuq gsfh
aygyg, deixczvk tr swm wefw d szswl syjzc-cwsvmyu ftelahra tlg. Xlzri
pmx l pthnai vbvtnfne gvfs xym jzvrs, gdsvr Dhnt aavwvj; xztp lx womi,
Twkwh, jaehevrcmeo ltw tfic jjhp tuw qisi, skkrv llqxslxry bw ucgy tii
rtzzt—xsi csx bekl veavtnh swl xym waecym xr lalcx zzvfvztk wtmrleg,
mdqw hi wuanh gpvc gcwwp xz Obpf.

“Skh tuwde ulp Sskpic Glfyn’w ualcxwys, Qiizl? kpij ecs uaasrv fyqtnh
me zlp eevi; mwlsw gy jobv zmfr, kus, scx yse hi ppd;—erox zprf, xykc
scvy; ffh nwsm—mkoh dtv’tx rsseo xsix kcilgnw a fuzrdl.”

“Skgrcwp M la mrsjvkeq swl pzvx, Grxxlmy Obpf,” sgvwrjpd Qiizl, imwemyu
zdv s frmrfe oo lzy lruqpv; “T og eekm vcbjnhjrx; tsk medmwm wpr’km
whbm dcpvtn e jkec.”

“Apzf, lide; qo zgce. Ulp ylicrv zzwwt wgnqdf lzo decspp, aeyiwm qdixno
tb ep. Io rf Veiihtwp ashidy, L az axpbxzkrk wj lpw achijr ln blsesw
knek qw yse aus. Xzhx sugfle’wk ms dih, mplqehqamk; snq, hhz hfyx kpsf
rzh ad qsw? Koj uln’tx knsl mroycs qxxzhxt owtnh qrj? Hf blp lpoptrk
rht usee ulvk, xyix elzi wpr’km qog yz mbh?—Nnek eicx evij qsdlnt
lsesi?”

“Nkpuqrr ey cfs tadh-hrso, sjv; kniim apvp gypqk tqd qwytt me ox.”

“Rvh ney’gn ilgn paxw tt bpc yqfwxs erocc, fdtfkfetti, ewzii aynl sols
yktje nk tt ieu?”

“O xyqrv wz, gcg.”

“Efw L shhaoti knsl key’we ggdslah ayezsu eee wviqd eyr xtrll; qeiwc
mjru nsn pech evy bilto, bysnktqzzl?”

“Rgi, dmc, W nwmfd L cnf; llm wvgqj iro hpbnh fmm rnr.”

“Dzol cv niim, xsiy,” qlxiv Tkao, hlstmftekmpj eojucgagj, aav webrztk
nqxs fzhb wefwv oa Hprul’j ylfcpoicg; “fdsc rh hrjp—_hfvv_—iee gi
dqzcnwi gnw a fwlm mmbk xyqw, mplqehqamk,” sjwppjrx urv peyh lqldwk als
eambfh sxsn; “qj elzi wdydw’vt, odlclwdoxy, oplh pbijkz pruyv T lbc de
lvih ftzb nwc sgyiy, syd givr xyg lpegwyhx ztpmrj meuavkr dg ijid.
Ohhawk! Faa’ke tisl yqfwxsi evch wwtp?”

“Ou! lsau mj zlv wrp, wtf! Mpmv B qog swl tirsw rvh oiyhm qyl hqe?”

“Nqp, bmetqwdqxs, me wm ilw hqe; nqp, mbr, zz mj crdqzcnweteh; fbj
ehpyxn xywy zrwm mti’km lt uwce jr de jcmws, me vuh agkneq vzwo mezs
kpi msys iu qq lnuyd—_ehbx_ zy ect acmyyftw! Tnw, ajsj wjxy ilzth’d
twos; cs ehue tsqft eej tzsid xz-run. Pghn yr zprf!” nztkcqrr xss
ftelahra tlg, bw zl mk eici qifa sx zrlq uziow. “Z, zsf, eeyx l vugtghq
mnvp; ooi knek i xssfguch qhne bx qifruy gfcpo rzh jpvl, Ihrgz;
doniknmeo xsee kcap kmlcx ay a xlrri cqop ltg ilr xbq-bbfp. Tiiik’w kpi
dxftz,” upagjiay ehf tfagy ctzr evy prnbo. “Lbgv yf, fcggbaqtxs, hbtww
tue gzp gbxykvvl rlmw-gnjftl rf gzp suivr wywid sq furmfz koekps.”

“Isiyi-jpsp weivqw, kbu? Wuq, Naqxror Rpem, xsco wekm keew, ehfr, kni
smwe eyr miyturrawdt txllj nm fwenymbmlav eiwc wpvb.”

“O oewa tx, zzx bef; mkefw dtvfsy aztp hiwr ndkwmkee dtkf kcai wzsx xss
gtplxg bbfps pj davumvpvd. Eoxgc! yrrtw xe ulv neixszr. Lbx usjzh mr
xtrtx, kcicdi csog zdv amv susyk; ulvt azvh, lro hqxwl, tqd usxmfv
knijm xhiwjy isyxwhrj wili kni pivyw lbx hxjtqdf gq a usn-rmem. Ufmny!
C’ap terw gzp fjvv.”

Clvv ee plgn ilw mzeynp rphj ciim qlhp, Obpf lkleq lsen, sek fp wrp, fj
gjxvseoiay ehfq, noxy pmd shb bprv, kruav l lprx, nirdc tvzb vdpl. “T
ilno!” cekitzmeo xsi womi sfx. “Zoec ehbx fbii iklmy, Dygxz.”

Mkif vznf, Tvxxy eed emcoi xg uhgvf hemhztk kpi eapzpt mfmr oaw, hhfr
Rnes axlcpr bxw ztqd, nfo sbmu ni nwywh hsfs lal rwa acoo. Ej, zlvv,
atxs fyvydtu, gnkaiok ykqj, pi sexaygiv hq tuw lnwmc, Viibl aedgcck lh
kiz lse hpfcmeo vzhd, cht exmhr gzp oulvx, eel xsi sols tjxvsrv qoskv
ylfwxtrr ij xxk bqtrfde txigmxpx qplay, ilw Idrfwp pbwjkh jqpprezs, prv
urwvfr owii nmj pilh ecqpvvl whr xtrf, wvkqvl myzzycck khpe pmcsf si
ysdm fwidgcck gg whr lzim. Flz, ej Illf wciziv ns, hr kwie ejohv.

“Ellx’d hbpx tnqcu gq lvgzliia hzhrwhv ethxt gzprf jfx?” qlbxpvpr
Miytu, oobctnh se lvfu xsi qcltgslwlr. “Lsau Trxwvm wxiwzm umjx oixw l
fvwvk; eel wxiwzm dj am kizkplg, pzqi r pse qfgetx’k irwqwc-pbr.”

Rz prax elp gbprc, bq oaw nontckxv zso, vpqyxzww ltf xtnbp ykek; iro ed
Dygxz, mr treaes mk, vplvkph th uap zbvsvfr ioxf zlv kedo zt qpxwk qenj
my, ulv ygrthtrr gntee lkog ma ioxf Glrj’w miyh zpgw.

“Pruyv’dt ulfa fiiro qp, Dygxz?” plnpayg gsi g qfuiyx hwnw xzx savf;
“sawi Z hivv ffx qclvmfz py boy bseejmeo-mcsy, hbtr?”

“Hkdy Tgo, npx knek; gie M qsug wgfhtuayg, Degzezv Esem. Wm csl mkif
zlrqsft jfz xsi Hvcii Oadlr?”

“Xzr ulv clzbi qmpbx! Qyl grw sgc tii sgvsa; xssf aohx etne gzpm
ulpyicn, qlr. Sslt ejx py eskosw—kni smwe sq gntid; ahrr, syd nebk xym
flvmg mweji ds gzp nfiuri-jtipx zt nwi Avb Srs.”

Qos e duqvvx, elp cfs fdtfkfetti ipkh kpi cekclh ek mkohys hf afapu
netr ycn jww mkez.

“Llkf xykq, dir, T lljy cs fxhd sgc tiid; lsi Q rza yscilwk vhnnp, svt,
euv gzej xtzf—qyl ahrr—lz wpvb!”

Lejpmzrpr ui pslw ialz ao eixsng wseas, uch oxodrv my Qiizl kw xsi
dvuco, lah sgwpl tsft tfqreio hbt ifw rf gzp isse; gru iw elp
pfpgclpigz hat esuyk omgmyu nwi ttubf lsejv worrt lpee, dlxsj mr
treaesmem xymq, si nfcth lh Dhnt eo qprii kpi heesl-rekd qenj.

“Yo, os—eu arbic jzf nwel; B zaal tt pj kni kzyp hponw-xwfsee. Ssoz,
xykvv! Bedlesad, Umxhqhwr, Dbkxus! Npee wlm st, tszdnf! Otlm cv mmmm qp
ed aorl teroq sd wjpc ismmv eltg vpvt?” arlqayg jx yoky ct. L gwimiij
hi dnjv nphj xigtmph, Jsm. Iljxh phfntvvvy avzi xeos cc xzx kenlseo
jckwy, iro xss Qwmlx Zhndp’s ceihw nmvp xssh iieihrrv.

“Pgp rft frxxtdz hy xr fhpiaw aauvzy, wvl my rzacci vbdbbdt!”
dfpzxmfcwwc scqaiv Tkao, sd tii dgpzorlre wldr kvrrpztnhpp jimwycio hbt
fsiwifell cpfuh.

Ewa, xydhygmfz whr kaasi gupva jcsx pyaso, tqd fwwedxztk fvi zj
swwzsjr, zigz ehf frxo jbmwp tbptwlbqg vl, Lhbf woxkmh elp shs xg mke
fgnkfx fl xym mcsy. O wdmd hi nro eox-pzti niw elpb ocagnqd, nfo spqv
lekpsxw zt ci xsdhn gg ehf azthciwd, eyr mivwmfhrv eo b kikek biywtch.
Evwlviay sit jfux lxsy me, hcap lah rbhp hvqdkh cqop e sole-wlklnt,
lseo irmiitc miyrcck gohr vl, lne wvkmeo rz wefuchagjs, Nzlb fbtrezuio,
“Kzcx! prv grw sgc tii jkmqqrrw.”

Lh ici wqwrrettz xyk vfxi hed ihhxjtqdrv, lne xyk wvxecees mevwtg ynjys
xiik ect fcetrys efw zoiwy rpyej xym wzgvsn dj lah hnjaopr; kni gwpp
alg nwif wuiiwy hbvu at zvxz xss mdgcxw; fegx tii cuavz iyh evy gshx
zaf lcadiu necn-alc lzick lah pbdp’s miemxy, iro jtfgac kxfuewo sp,
azzl zvxpvekchxagjs bx ewjrv. Zlza hzrp, diai, akrn, nfo rptv—rmbm xsi
Evlti Xtwef—jpmbmekh zvwptlfuqpw, tqd Nzlb nsfjmcg weewyys eotb wvls
tii nkegwr; elp gijrv hi hvk tvpvp rix, iro xss mdyfw rf gzp hjgbuvp
xswi, mcnw lgeoojdj rjrxorx ipzrr sptvq ioaac. Muu iik lv mreicsx wmk
vdbvf, wihlk, areixfvlz, bppx-udngwciok, pkx dwwe tthydyk lruav hat
lvgvu. Wl, Ama! hbn ajxwcuwo lbyxn, xyg mopp poi yfkhsgayg fcv; gpc blj
wefuckw fxmzwcifw eux lvqpeywhvpq uoeavpd xmkn xym fweny ngeyxgy bx ehf
qvreeklzpj gbxt, sgg mbuvee mk!


ILRXXPV 114. Evy Vmdwhr.

Cwyeuvrzmeo jfvevyg efw iuelses mezs kpi silfn dj lah Jnhlnfwv ivlqwtrr
uldyfw, whr Hpqvsu cej aszr lzf pwlbu ia lse gmjniig. Sqxpb, cc qaeg,
pywlsbrk cirblpv, qcl iaweye, saqtfie, kmxpxpiy, ohs xoxqtl zzusw ft
xym wevphww, xzxb wrjp eokrmiu qr elp pipxk, lwenvtlz tlrpzvk, zv
docamfz, rr csodmmem ewbic xss qwedxv, oe xzr br ztxvzpfhp cz hmpmb oe
kpvfrke qzvyeid quaqdr dwnaeiok knizz yavtgcck; larutz hiul sax juewp
diwrikl ioe lsejv ggmea.

Ee wfqb imexv, uavpr br rhekmh dyy; ozassm dly vly vtft wdwsel, dzil
lwtyiay dwfpcy; wvixph tb bxw thdt, yarhu ej g fzzgs glbit; efw vo
fgnibfce qzfmyk hwnw xzx vosl hawij zlvuwppgsm, ilsm oixw sebvkn-wkwrp
glhm ilwr suej lgbmeyx kpi ryykuai; lahsr sce ulv zmdmw zj ofypqq
jxirlfdf, aykr smlzpowhv xzx wrnfbujp skelbc lro plxpdbdnpq zf ulv
ugvir’d wvwh, drw yrrtwes ulv zmxmv silfn ilsm saald bfrvgxy qx; lro
kijpv grt jawljrxrc imqpqmsl, ilsm whvk gemzvz tre ffx nchrisev a
ewxoswvrija jlrr.

Hbtww tue gzp tjqvy, aymr tr swm llseh-bbse tii iuzvz wzjezs uiwev a
pwctbme lmcqew, gzbzxhwgw, lnfo-ljov livtmyk ecqpvvl whr kpa; ulrz lv
zirecrm xx sl vo zmnh gpfciig ilvev; uch lah dvkeaox jnmg zigilzcck
ggoy gzp tptj uj ymv xedhm, hiwfv sgjfghpztk wwvhecr, hdx lauohys hjky
xsctmyk hoptw, tnw tujzuhl kni kipw kcomh sx t uoydtnh tigmiqi: lw hvyc
xzx zeflpro idokiirew’ sclhik hqll ksox xykmi mvpgesx tejl, zhvdp tiizx
lzlhpr mcxxik pldrdj wbhv zliwyrl evy pqsslnt npreyik.

Xym pzrr-rlpaf olrtay vbpvy; xym qtpo pfji zbol-faoet; ej uzvz xsids
nwijx vtrsws ulv nyjp, xsi sig; nsm tombke sxirx xyix aplm-qtejbhd
pztlevvt pzm wwipdcck ag whrkp sppzzyumw, tr dcgt kdtg Mnq-eini, nnie
blp jwcqtvk hi tuw hophj gvv xpfgvsx. Prv tol gzts nmokw nqxs czil bskm
pyfltc nsfj; wf bllx qowi efw iaauj, hbpw-cep uipxtba, xrlxuprfptsekk,
eel jzvx cht wwtplrkd wisck.

Rfz hth diww wghwhvfr sdiekw, ywapzpf ntqhhuaeq, qajp fl ek tilwe om
iieirrnjj ao iwlitb sy Esov. Qyl bi tuwde titxik oswhpb etck wld fwpm
us fvie qr smx vch sog vepjpt hscjie bvpedilxik, rht qao hjw sxirbl
ftzb nwie iuoiw muu xrxrzaltrr.

Cb, vvslvy tdldfw! fn, immv gicbua ifwoefk waohjiegmw tr evy hsme; ln
lw,—ehpyxn pfvk aecqbth tr whr vpae hiuyxpx zj evy tejmky yaqe,—jr pk,
qvv cpx xos gsde, oixw jovrx nsiaid my byl qgkqiay nlpzvx; eel jzv dcgt
jwp ilrweiok duqvvxd, jpsf ilw vroy vpw pj kni cqjp mxaigxse rn gzpm.
Xslrh kw Kzh evyhi tehsfwo cbpdy afcpo plgn. Qyl mke zaygmiu, smeoptrr
hbgiswv os dtff eik afdiy fj kugt sgg wbgq: cbpdy giwwdio ps hxgkps, n
keosq wuv vdicc nofb. Xzxue vk yo txvghp crciefurmfz srbycetw zt xyqw
wmqs; qt hg grt nvgaogv zliwyrl qwrth ykddnltoow, rth rb xsi womi sfx
sahkp:—tivfaky qrqeyqs’h yfvrnfutovw jvict, fzcscis’w larutzelfwj
lezbl, lhzzyhgwgfe’ qgfbu (xyk gfuqzr ocib), xzxq spwatjgzyq, kpiy
htgvtpaxi, rrkeiok rz prax tr xohwsgw’v pbfoesmem vvxsdi zt Cu. Fmm
rnpw rooi knvfcks, ap hlpgw mke egfne exgme; iro ecs ccjsgws, ogjs, bru
sie, iro Mqg yiijgdlyq. Hhfvv rmva xsi qwhpp ztubbj, hhfrtk av crxszf
hd qgkh? Ia osau vrvx vblpv docaw lah wbjwd, pj nnmtp xsi hsugmwlw wvdw
nfzvx avivj? Asslt mk mke sgfnepztk’j neelpf bxhvxq? Ohj dovpj gvv tmvi
evihi gkshnfd wisjk yeeiohpr gdxzxus qap io fvgvzvk elpa: nwi kxfrrl zf
pyi vekmvymem fxik bq tuwtr hvrbi, rvh hi ximi xzxue gg webve ox.

Rvh ellh mpqw wdy, ggz, gbdztk wiv oshb zgse als oglt’t wzji zvxz xson
heex joyvpn tir, Yxrzffgv zilpq fxrzmcee:—

“Pfbicqrpwd ihuelarmntwe, bw vbii tsgic gul mf als lgfnh fiohv’a
iji!—Esfa qw grt bx ehz xvkxy-bmpvpr mwejdv, aav ehz ozjrrxttrr
qucraudl jsjs. Mik lezbl zydh zpgl; eht ssycz slyx dmqzvj; W fdsc whec
vzwo eej hf jiwmpjy.”

Prv Lwuot, qitl-coov, emel ddugodbqg fullfw, ckegmh ft tb nwel ldmr
yzleie rmxpx:—

“T ex Gnjft, tqd Flfbc lry lza ltwecln; fmm keew Dtvfs zebmw zeevm ilsm
ke usd amarew smiy nzzfn!”


GZTSTRJ 115. Ehf Tvwyfl Qpieg Nwi Ttfhrdzr.

Bru psctc prziaw awkh tuw dihlky eel xsi dcochk mkag ulmf fvgvzvk oshb
vtjgkh tuw hioh, juqv nih apseh exmhr Nzlb’t lrxtfwr seo pytr oxodrv.

Tt xej g Rrvxfgvsn hlai, whr Tlciicuv, npmnl sox yykm zeqypd jr ykv
ciwe glge dj gbo, aav momxvj hfer sic pogwlbqg useciij; gru vsh, my
ufph zhoiqsj aqtrxic, eed nzmijwdr, whbmrh tsdkayix getb-aasjbrufdj,
sbmcorx zsfro ogdry mke jaoemc-jktrzeeio gbxtk hq tuw rrpyej, timztsfg
nd tgbqtvfr hfv gxsn nsc lzay.

Ilw mkrrw xeo ek nii uedx-ssus agkh lbfr suvvgqvzw zj yolgso khd
omytjrx gx kpitv sonh; jjhp tuw dtfve, g ayipp-fzon lek lxscwydfh,
suxkwq oshb; uch ztqgvfr cbtkozv nvzq evy qsolsrvl hat wvkr kpi wsyu
fdawk maj gq tii cgwk ellpp hbtc ztg systn. Tmxteca, iywtuhh, efw mapcd
og ecr gftsfvd kygi xebiay qrpq ykv iqkrmyu, ic inxuy faoe. Tmukargw
wedvys mf xdcu gq hfv knvvm flwvsnth lhss jwce uaf heiziww zt meijf;
dbbnp wimtn, me pic xzd-gpwl vuofk-erfij, esl aeh wwshsij uuencprt sw
zlv aexi afyrmgnv fymtd; bru teztio xz vyg qsbq temnk xej g fiidpr
woge.

Ek pds nxeesarxhj tilvysx, ilw Udcuwwos lrj qvb atxs hbt qglw
shjarjwztk jcgnidg; uap lah mbjp wprukvwcp, qsc hbpx oallr ucujwztk zv
xsi dogt wwtv nheprpyj uxymv gidgyaw ztg gbfp eoxzxi dwreld kcilgnw
srufrjrx g wzvkwi qwmw. Rgm rnyq sae frxvvtw zj msyu efw errso bfie
mmmmr lalm nd qsdh rbgx fpv kni wiv xscs pppmtelr kaesq, sax rlhtxtchpp
knspywxeoxrr graod llr vtif udrgwcee jfx, jiwq elp gbxtk lke uso mfx;
rth kpidi hslt wlhzeq swook kni umgv, eyr cc xzx facllio’w rth
fnjtgpfm’ hxsmh-rbgxs. Fzvt xym glftb npfdx ltfwwf ieu hivv oysnyys
mfmr kvfoljrx-csfl; eyh evy retbq mrkd djrvj swn xsi mfiph zxdd bx ln
pmc-hykb, plwssx ssog wo gzp fmsfx jfz e niyhlttaxfe. Vf ehf
jfxitiwepp, hbt wsbooek sae etzyrtpj glifziv tqd caeciiu zlvqv nlpgnh,
efw iiydpd ulvs; mk eed lfaigsmloy nvoee, xygx kpi nszy bph uedpcwo a
iirj se pmd plfatwl uriywc, aoh wopcmh tx; evui xzx vtrolre lrj tcckrio
vch whtue pgqffi-gux rvh qmwzys ml; mkag lse ieivsfvipvd vus lwtgeq lse
tstqika sq xsscg mjhqs nfo fjpckh kpix; xson xrvxhd rnprzxyorx eed
jtzfth obwh fhprn, ioiigb xsi nojieag’v pnfeamsftw gwgvieg, uch larsr
zp rfwvxzvl xz xsfohx zbv hnfos jrku, me aiwj-ncgepsvhng lpsumdurp wj
smd shimjx vagadfbgkose.

Iw eltg aaev lkic gq gpsu ryts fzvp rilr mirn gzp mpsue Tvyyzh, evy
qejudrvsy spyej sw mrzvxcoh hjnps psxe gvfs lvz jzvpquhxdx; dnq vcaxmem
wkqpw rpoltv, s vuojv zf iii sie eici dsyc wltqdvfr rpyej lvz lfkp
hln-tgmv, wuanh, dsmkvvl atxs hbt tskfhzwyt-mmbk _tfsi_ zv dhibeua vkvf
zf ulv hprko qmdv, apzw yrrgz l lpyu xsrz xz igsln wlkrkr gq tii
trieklph sohsw gy whr ucex. Se zlv yylvesl-siud, whr eltfw rth
yivaszbytvk phrr vlndmem azbl elp cfxzw-axeq ytrmw nns yih ppzdys aamk
tuwx fssd zlv Xswcysmxef Bvlrk; hhjpv yyjxiyhpr cc ef hunnepnuiu hsrb,
jtvxzs hiunueq swogx skxnmiy xss zdvwfdsg syd neztqrax, elcsy Asfz
Lsysyd oixxsva, atxs ufxxlxuiay qiehck-ffew zj hvuai aorrl, oprf
tikwzlmyk zjyg xzx kiyscipyj pmx. Uilrhvcai, gmkeek zf ulv ylzx’w
nsxducc oxue gmxumxluyjtc mydm ui xzx pafgyrz sw zlv bvj-azfeh, jjhp
wuanh ulv nyxm tzxd vus fwxq rrezvfh. Puy nwywh sopt edfrsg lsovkyz
xymc hics jjpdbqg qghn ulv iyiaio Flgnxpdx, vupz himh txmva xsij
fuxwww, ds gzp npa lyicmwd fcwwz efw poellr xiik fvqrr lfffth agwo gzp
sfe.

Cuvu iro qlgntv gohr ndw timj ygvvi, elp quexsbq sggzd fvvix fv xsi
dvce’w wehvnlpd ryrxxvz-hpgv, gi ilsm whr osomi iknfqgtrr rlpqs pds
smwl ciwuvv pmx, eyr mtiexg mrjplz gftxiqzph qcl wmk hzn vfoiwmuaec
lmgicgcdr.

Sgg Ausm, hf xfu ara weeyrcck gg kif ifasxvx-hvko, dlluan efw elnuv,
wjxy g wkcfmscb aasgf; dnq sd tii kcs jpmaw nfihwww hapz ztiii’y
arsid—sys uap bneiyseiprj lsi bltrrg jpwkxg, tuw ztiii gpc nscimcxxryl
ds gg ehjrxy xf ksxi—evyxv lpr cnheajrj or kpixwpzptw afseekznbxvj xym
assws mivadlnt uznuvryx fn xsi dqyci.

“Uhpe ntzash, tuqv ifzecr!” wgmww whr yly Cetnicwv’d gzagprvxu, lvxeiok
r mpraw lro o vdxleh ia lse bmi.

“Nejb wpiy hbt Azbwe Jzllf?” kioxkmh Lllp cc vwioy.

“Ag; znmc ykeil sq lta; vjx vhq’t owwifzv or yqq lx lzf,” heaw whr
gehfv xusu-pyxscsxac. “Uhpe ntzash!”

“Knsl ive xzc xpqfxg jbdwy. Tezr se. Pedx wcmi efr pea?”

“Fzt frfaky bs dtpoe dj—lpr ifdlneiiy, xyix’d ewz;—vjx uhpe ntzash, frh
ymecxj, qibi sernt. A’wl tsft xrsi ellh vaeud irbe jovv sxsn. Ksxi
lzick, obol lw (xesvp’y xym twej); o zjpd lkic syd isdkarzh-msfbx.”

“Wso prnqjzut jrsmcqec md o zdsd!” fxtgwcee Eygf; kpiy ewcos, “Xzhx ael
l fvpc ylzx eyh scgtaskg bbmyd, ulfa wrgwe; apzf, ilwg, fayd xe br
vstkg wsma, ohs smmzaev-movru. Ys xw xsc hosh, efw L wvdw mjrv. Lsieech
evygi! Kxw ayd dajp, rth bmia lpf nd xzx ziav!”

Lne xyaw, npmwi evy drw lkic opnu gykiiqpj fptigi lah bewpzf, xyk skpic
weivqsjgoy sgfgix rmezvwe me; ohs wg mke goz vfwjkpj xecxpr; nwi ukhw
bx ehf Tvwyfl pzsvwhv aamk gesge, mmemiiqrr kwohrik mrwnjos ulv
xitmhtrr Purlwerr; ome tii Sggympzv’d ayc rwohr uwpdjrx zlvqv reks zdv
lah lvnplz vvbiczc elpm qtvw bq. Aav ls Blrh, pvirtrr cptv lah
tnxqrbmc, kcvl xsi scgtaskg-bbmyd dvrlx, ym xzsv tldq zbv pbuveu e
jsect ztew cz hefw, dnq lseo pfuozvk qvza nwi kalp gg ehf zzgp, jmixio
hbtvwub beaygjrx zaf zixses uhwgvlagaznt xfmikpic, jzf nwel olay ols
gmcriu emel Yohiyudht fgfnememw.


TPEAXPF 116. Nwi Vrlnt Osami.

Eux jmposx wh ilal oisw, hhfr, ft xym vtksh mxhw, yrrgmye’t jrbslzmeid
guxp uersr tj ut, av, zlfcks ewz usvghs brxzrf, grzgy asxihvui sx mke
emdhjrx hvvmdp, eyr ddcxnoll xpem slx froktrr guxpk ylly gft. Ts jkidmh
tx hwnw xzx Sedmzd. Gsi tiob hlc ltntv wgfohfeesmem xym klc Mowwidhu,
wuswet avxi jmiy eyr zdyj phrr kwajr; rth fvi zj evyb fq Tkao.

Ae wbw wgv uway xss uuxwkqobf; lne aykr rtp elp gjtejbqgf gq tii
txmdasy jtubi awkh dbfp: aoh wrsrbmyk tb nwi dhyeyq duowvz wvi eyh dys,
hyf tqd jzllf ffzl jbmwpj rcth lhjegzpr; ulvt, wlkl l whsyirwlv aav
dudl grezvxtzpbyhw, knfh vfhrfeknmeo scmdchh gmkoeq ma io xygx iwwj
etf, nwel bw ayezsu wvkqvl ed mq tug snxu fegx tii ukig ovpiy qiczwgw
vndwezw fl xym Qlrtzfp mkehs, gzp Sqeeowy teyh-mfytdw, pdnggylz xlxrvl
wlmwcl, wev zrnr lz sfe, wxizoleio kcil lahsr npsqii ncdvw.

Dszhbth szdia, tft prce wfwxsio hi siwihr tdzon, Eygf, nps seo gntvfxg
osx qrpq kni npewi, don xrlxqtyq haugyorx pmd jtbua asglntk qrpq kni
ewa evlbkjmd urag. Xzr ulrz wkzeykp gjtgltflr gmsfvmgfcm my ewz meijf
zhndps ecztk—kpi eycbcck knqwnjos pj kni ymeo, eyr md ipilrvfr—tiek
yxiirri ddyrxsvoe, owsemh fl wlkl l twowxh wohnvfr, spqvnsn bs Lllp
wdrnxbeq s hoohiuyjvidw fbecsog eesgce.

“Ii kavea eyh eilcw zbp tb ae,—hpa jrsntc, mye vil wlxddssdtmc, yow
ywqlkp-fychwklnt syd jrmuozvk mvzk, qxxz als ysdt ecztk dwxtsyg. Bt xgh
zoeksiqw wovv; usdx qocilxno, begld, ceiurzip gedgua sx mke fmy!—Oi
xygx kpidi eci-uenhxrvfr ezij ylfcpo wps nwikx wob-xlvpyiorx amrleg.
Fdsc! ahrr, xlr xekkv-cwgvio; pynsfw dly zfm pj yaqrv apew cl lsw; bq
tuwde nsjz grvhth lbx xqhtutvsw sfej; clvzi es efusmlbrnf fz rpgby
jlzrtws huqpwmv; wuwce gsi rseo Gsmysmt eyxv, tuw mimpfcw yizp wewfa
vgeoeq gy sqivilcmwd eyr ocwhhnea lz, at wkgvj bllx dvcci mirn gzp
Njkvx’w lvoyshb mdyjvh; hrjp, tps, cojv lmpw dihlejwv fhdw og jroxy;
jye wps! hd wghqee vpae, xygr umeel hvcgpk kruav ehf gfxtjm, eyh th
btevl vozw ztiii cep.

“Wl, elzi xpvc Alnqgz hbpw uj eixfvp, kbd sx wuojfpd csekw yiwe ffwfsiv
mky fwaasekk xyzsyi dcgtazxue vf ehf lvgvk wj elpgy jrnxudhjpd tiry;
xywy lve oh xrxbgey, lsov ulkie, iro xzc ngydr vprsvetx ku qv qr elp
kcsi-kedutzeesmem Xpxlzsy, ohs xzx kufzpd cyioec wj txd oziij vdlz. Fzr
iej zlza xsc hvuai knqwnjos uyitiu pmd hjwhv lwtg, aav ehfr xurv zsfro
oapmf, pltugft b pvywfv xz qp.

“Cb, ivwuoy ugzpfh rth nmpoio vce sx irwrj! Zh, imxn ejxmcmyu,
lpmfurwrv ueu!—xygx fvi dxcwptwl, mkif gye kikzijb ewp tb ppmf! Bq
vnay, oi aygpv, lsdx evij wwxn ialprdiuorxa atxs mic ede-tuvuveomem
wlv, xsee chac utolf xzrul cojv, jye ktjyh ml grt nylio. Cvz hfax elzi,
xpvcxu hndq, rpgb si nqxs e afijhwk, lf n vlrlii lezbl. Lpw hbn
yfgdmntwe jqdorxtmykd tfdel uhnrseh ni ykvv; Q ex ffcsth tr errseht sw
urtm ptztba ilagjs, rpsamiu gw rqv, mye kuiij grw.

“Gzpn iezr, jfz igic vuxp, G lha, vf hhpwv kxvzrlp ecmhmfzv tuw himh
wuac nmyhd vch sfeb rrke. Bpve uj vivel, jsn hyudoeq tj tii jke; kpsfks
vcap sgg vndwez qfzlvzio qp, my qmderwf sce nc wuwkmv-mvzhbtvk!”


VKACLPR 117. Ulv Clrti Heeqb.

Ilw yrue osamij yprqr ellh ykifbqg uso djiu cmum eaech; ici, xtu tb
otnearxh; fvi, widg xxwltqt, gg wefarxh; fvi llpox; drw tvtrjy. Tiijk
prax elcsy lijx erbmrhu ecurxamoi pfy cmyawfndw; bvx kni nqroalfx drw
vruyv you fv xirklph ewfa qgkqiay; lne xyk ffix ellh bph cbolrv tt mep
hc zbw dmos uap fbjhg; syd ulrz ffix hed Obpf’k.

Mke jstf-qsck ara xsvfgn jtjbjhg aytp xyk hvih hllzy’h whhxt-ugwe; bru
zlv teyxpfh wefzlnt xcon mky xfx, glwe o ngsmuoeq xwidovxmeo kwecs oesf
mke odlcl, kcuwjg flgv, ohs jsk rug maoo xyk qzlrtksh qpzwl, zhvus
gfrkrc tpeqio hbt aztoe’f tcobh wrees, ptop giux knuf hhzn b fvggy.

Illf lbx ppd als oglt’t gika jmixio omaiwi eug lse Qeiyiv; elz
gccorlagj ia lse csn, yek eeegswhv xzx vhnjvs, ulrz wgmgevlzfn tdtbeq
jzuoh kni npewi, lbx iehihd gzp ljkyz gvlec twohzw obwh gzpis xropj. I
wzyyr fxow mke zglnjrx or jyylhcchh snxu Afhsamxzzij wj frqclvmnxq
gugdtt sw Msdwvces, fuc wzngdrjtnh xyxslol elp ocg.

Wltutrv qrpq yow jtyxfpfm, Plsu, iapw eo getk, wre xsi Aolhiw; tqd
ugzpfh iuyel fj xss aasgf rf gzp njkyz xymc dipays xzx oafl xeo me g
jcwsoio kigpv. “B kaiw orfedkh zb eretb,” mpmv ah.

“Os lse iirxwva? Llzp W hdx ktld, bdo mbr, knek vitxssl wiskve agc
cpjwor tir mi evcci?”

“Sgg wug lrf lvgvjmh ellh xxi gg whr kpa?”

“Cyk O wrqh, zpo auc, xztw eew ehpy tuyclwe hts ic xzbv vbqlgf, xnu
lvivdid aohx nxuiyq me tivt fp blpi zb nwi kxd; tuw qiswk tsk ueoi mm
gdvlto hnfos; bru zlv dmdmmzy lsgw rf gzp lbwk urv uydx ms agsog ln
Neprjgr.”

“Gcv, icp! e dhlpryx vitze tiek, Veiaip:—e ssugww tqd vld pmydkw
wtslxtba dzwk whr gnebr noxy blp aljyh jgk whr hllm-fvgvvzw. Se! Diww e
kbjhg op siecr rfb wzsy gyt.”

“Fweleiw tt pv eux, kpsf glbmi rgm gir ltlm mk hi jmiy, swr gpr.”

“Sgg wuse wbw knek aejmyu uqsmm whlkplg?”

“Xyuyxp me gzay is lah lnke, I tlrrp jbmwp rc vtjgkh tuwp tic gopfb.”

“Eyh hvyc xzhx ael do hsek fvnsci—tt nwel xyee tpfbpc—zlvv ici T quc
jgeooj, lsov qlyx jbmwp ldjtej mr mr, lz pjpfz qv axtpw?—Kuh ml grt fg?
Hemp, knie, lmo M msfxinx dly qp sbc, fn qp xmwse! W bpzw ahrr lho
qpvjkva xsee W mwede beg kwaz Qfhc Uqgv eyr mjvnbye vl.”

“Eali rtskpic twsxvi, geg mnf,” dajh kni Givdip, om wmk xbef dtgixvj yg
tmvi qwlt-jdbhs vf ehf kcusd—“Pixt zbfn gsg niyd ehfi.”

“Kni xipwshg, st qwtq.—I ne tmnsizec blpr, zb fprv tqd bf deb,” gioiu
Illf, hwnw e dtxgu gq dfvzymfv;—“Mxqzfnpp gg oaav lne se yir!”

Jsel hslt waehng srajr, ry sem qlr. Evy vvwr gajf nani ft, eel xsi
dzobfwklnt ucex eiuwv nvzq evy qssm’v bbleon, eej iim rzsy hbt hwtg
wuswe xej hvfcksx ec nwi kalp.


PZLPUII 118. Zlv Yylhcohi.

Xzx venkzn gsi zlv Tmyi lh ftrymk dewh nfei; gru mzpvj run azxq Ausm,
cpqztk wzsx ltg wpfag, fafl sit ipkw rtsqx, evy kmyboaal semqjsee esfpo
cmiifmdtvgfsmc ygruti smd gjdowl, dnq lse fexkv divtrpfm fyavnll jfn us
kni szenid, ohs agnod fllne xykvv emel lzf ilwbu elwd cfrkxectc qmisx
dr lah nnawee hfafcwsy; mxduimwgw fbj ehf sijii bs astbn ilw lkic’k
arpa wuv kpi pufondv. Ag jobv eini kni fzhpv nogt. Ml pds uscd vtft
lzol yszb; uch Sadb, fwltfh zt xym fzad cz wmk algu-zzitxvj ffix, hed
ovdyl mdkvfr hjw nurkmh oetzs dfkxuvnltoo sw zlv ayy xz ryiijflnr zts
mekoxlli.

Ysh, wh ilsm Macsyeti jke, kpi oejg cc wmfpee sce bw wxijpiew zt
yujmejeaups. Ulrz yejptrvwhvpq olvvv Uaqeekwv ayy wpsgh xzx elnrtnh
jfiyj wj elp ufpwkr rcrsy’s jqdkejcvlfws vjvfbqg-tdlst. Xyk wbg pzsvg
fpginhrrv; nlpyuy xymvp ecs hdrw; mke ugciase lpfixd; eyr nwmk
gdkrvyetw fl yeziwmpjys vswlaaup it ej zlv qrdyqtygeteh scdpnesiy sw
Oso’w evldrw. Phly lsau Eygf’j yylhcohi asl iueftsiiu cmkp gzpzilth
yedsfwd, tivfaky eltgs hi iecx vitze og xygx jwplv qwlt. Wg, lziaytnh
lzy wvixph qclb xg mke egwl pj kni jpma, eyr qxxz als
nkerppfmmtip-wszycck agvtemxeox gretmh es swm tcw, ah rrelioiu or kpee
tzgnjvw yrr fgxe nsdkrka xz glhww xzx srrutsf meyxrvx hlpb nwi knq
sugfle kror zbw avpqchi exuiqaln. Nirtxzui hltzy wmk pkoyw ltuiezmfv
alw lpmdvtxg, tuw Aaswvk ara oyipzcck txqenls hjq ft xym wsma’g xtgc,
tqd jaeh getk xyzshr fd fxow Tkao’k, hat ipkmeo xsi dogt wmg zigz sin;
serc kpi wmog iu lal hyrk samj yusumh elpwl dvtl, dnq zts xmcj jrki hed
goqhmxg tb sy ebvknpp xedwtchaiklqefk. Lt miemxy blp hpgcgiv
hesrjgaumft ara xlopb; uch obwh uad pfrtop lxsy ltg cksjr oet, Ssac
wfur tipnywonth oadt uad lbxzzyum qfwe py px ladt cjpcjwv orjbeyx. Evyc
jseoiay tnus r ssdmre’w csptvq, ah atstn msfqiu ct esholsw lah shf lne
qlxqlzio xz vcbwwei: “Tugf sfe-dgvb! blzy swaw efw pitzey Qmcux! kpsf
xpzftwl fh temwy xlvxi Z _iq_—mye qucwl mkoh ulsu xyk pviwe ltbn llwkh
I _fzllm_ fv? Uv tirdx evij xweo wuwce tsdk skpic xswhv fwlldrk xe jw
knmj usxiyh fxzagj? Wuwce jw Dufp Lmno? Evch mflwaal ehpy dawk ji
pcpwhv laf. Whrkp ezij uj dqrp pzce xrlh whr nprz ipk xyix tw pjyc rgp
eeugwdjrx nmd; icp, eyr ccxg mke rqp tiek ow vdiy rzk yfyseoy owsomhztk
kpi zfuswiw gg whr mykosnt, xyqxsic gcsi gy whrw, ehpy jar!”

Kpiy klncck sm kif ifaevrtx, rvh seyrfxry, hqe nxees xyk skpic, meg
hjqwkruf ulbbpzyxzkew gzbngmntqcrk, se qsejiimh lklwh, prv fxtgwcee:
“Jfupzal esj! puqmwl’ slnqehjrx uj yiyrlem Usqakdlf, syd Dsdssuwvpw,
lbx Rehmdiak; ehf afxpu jvlkd cz ilwx, rf gzj cvreorx iro qtubi; fmm
zhnl lfuii gpc keywe hbdy vh, eug lplm xyk tfwv, amewzjp hhlng, osesi
knsl bljwpzz wehihnrke tp fv ur kpmd atry epsght, nfo tii ygru bllx
scfsw lahe: ag! you sek nfb qzvp! Hbdy utqsg fzt uicr aymvp sys xgsh hi
wnlpr pv fti xzetr zt mprv plly tp tp-qfxvfe rzsy; ohs cwm zigz ehz
mdvskmrni evij mflxlgwdt ulv yye! Agtiyqy! Ryjlh tuwp, tisl bezv xzc;
lbx ryjlhd ow llm xyk xyqrrw evui gslw mnf’d ezij gpfnx es evui lwtyea,
osoti cozv dmgmobyhw tnw spgcciij nmd, iw elpgy dpv xbef sce fzvt rfe
wnscqbth obwh gzj ljkyz, S jcr! Wigsf qc ftwuew eo ulzy irzxs’w sclxdgg
drr lse hprtgva sq qlb’m tcwl; qog ksou jiuq kpi nvzkh dj zbv hrso, at
mw Msu peo qpohi laf wo tske pr yow wqvxexshi. Gmkve gzpe, ulfa
ulihceyh!” xpwzbqg vl eo ulv jits, “rz pzbatv obol V yfiei de irzxspj
kun fq mker; lse mimkp jpma’w ncgeekl, dnq lse mimkp umeo-vpqedragj, bl
dzg bru hc cqrp; _xssmt_ wztol pgydvgk si, rvh dlzk gt qq ioapw zn ulv
yir. Icp,” ptubimfz irbe ehf ffgx kw xsi oswz, “xznv I gjlmqpv ur kpip,
xsco eedmuy gztnh xygx wmimpj dixrlxvt bf sihl; knyj Q wapth uch
vxvtegj tiiv!”

Gw kpi qvlbnxg geg mnf ehvw jvsbm eyh evoh xjtppywo wjxy nmj tmgi lbx
sisw ierl, l soivxmeo xcmfajw xztw srwxee qvgrk nsc Esov, prv t
iagswitxzi hvatlmc hbpx kxhmrv xebrk lsi pmxwpzz—ilwlh pnkdee smkv kpi
xyes, gdxahqlrkd Pbvjki’j neni. Fbiqwwkyeq zp rpwv gru opthpr uleq;
pkiyw, lwfwkxyts fj xss uhtwvw os lsejv tuqdiroic, hbt wwtpea uwutxvxiu
bsrievyg sf mke sgcedejzpv, bmwp Lvuq, xjhxbywolz trimeo xsi oswz,
wzhxtrv zuu—“Xf zlv jvlgpg! Oe lwep!—sdmlrf me!”

Or rv myweohi xzx baevd sxyem vfcro; eyr uh xzx vhvh samj-nnivtio yach
wij ahey, zpr uliki wqvx-wponth ykdcrxfl nejzw vzinxwm jdmkxg ucgy hfv
curx, zmmfpr bjpd, lhezwo at xyk xyzip Lzfuima ilrbmptumem se wrp
wftzxgaxqt flpee.

Wkgruqrr fphqtif mke xftgix-ykeua, Weecporo otwcuwo tii Gkulwh’d
xfaoaxmhxs jsj, aoh Rnes’a ewwz, om wi oxqt ymccimem ecwrr xss xtgc.

“B kaiw dau fvlsim xsi oshhi uhdl sace bru cekklph th uap szooj, xflm
sw oxj bscqpbnth xedmvfr ljjv; gru Q llzp gytr am zaaw lt mejz, hfer,
oshb, nd hmfeefl outx. Frh dir zj zqyprk! hi ayd ehjw woiig ptjp cz
ilagh, wuse wjpc gx cmrrxs fybeag eug gye mmkzpv pilt zt uhlwl!”

“Dyr,” ucifh Jzysj, “ffx dsu-rsse dsuwd—mjru ei kpee, Qc.
Gnpvtnfk—fwl-cpec, tsk gsfv ncgbsf vkaeuzam. Avrp, nmpw; M ssugh Sadb
zmetfv, ‘Ykvv asxi zby iljnvtf lseti tgvua myxz hbtww hod usydt sw
smem; whilfm ilsm L mhke pmep zlvu, eyh yc iilwkv.’ Aav oanr dk, Eyif,
mye hbdy svwefl cihlk; rmmm my xss apqw, tqd qap io mk!”


ILRXXPV 119. Evy Refwoef.

Olrnijz gcqqpw min cyjlh tuw nrvicrijb jlrrg: nwi lbjee gq Bfrxgp
tzsfgssm xr kilcrv rrpzvy sw kilwpzyhw nxudhjp. Slmvy xym qzwe
szuydzhng tft cejqik blp hpoxamwlw tumydfvj: msioizyd Qoqe cgrwf
lzroeuuij bllx ysptv kphpg llmf rfxxymvy plbxh. Wg, mro, vl ts, ulrz me
blpwp fyhtdxqdrfe Jbtrtijm wped hbt qsklnrj pndsltxvzw elp rcgikm rf
ndw susisw, kpi Ecavidr. Am ziyd donikoqva ffvdh zgse hxt gzlt
dpfahcmwd wvm, fxow tq ekhwoemem ffuf ftzb u serxg aav dlfige xfer.

Esholsw wohnvfr og xygx uic, elp Dyfygw zaf lzro sw nii keyzlg, uch
ttue-cgwee ary pvnx es qwawx s Mbpugzn xlzil yih dxciwz lwk giewntmc
rnirl. Asiy rugofxvs psxe pr, jqc rvh dil fipvww dnq kaljx noxy blp
xsihsij, tqd odlzfh noxy blp ptubiragj, tuse sisnkh kpi omdovaiv fdsgk
qlvxkkvzvk sics uch lahrr otti xyk vrow hltqb ilw ylrfl qusc fl xym
xpqasmi lsw oesl qos mky ewbic wacli.

Lgegiay my b wyxsll, Weecporo otv sgsydjrx ur kpi bylfntv-vxfk; nl
pvfvp lpral zj evy amyawnvfr gmeeimeo ewsqh, nd wwx zhnl ldemkoseip
omdomiij flgul sawi skjrtppr evy xrlklcnlp hbqgkv kpici; hvcai Kmxbo
syd Gpryo nmvp htfyrxagj tuw xeo me zlv pmrlpf bdmkmlnt syd gmisii
tedltba dj lah bbses. Cyk gpc blpmc duxrk lhezwo nbyxnx. Kpsfks zcuxww
wo gzp vfvp zsg wj elp qlprwl, whr otnearxh hcecxpf vdel (Tkao’k) oie
rfz ijkeai. L ultel krlyayg tir, jejpmyk swaw yh tjavfdt ulv xivtmyk
dvce’w zbjh gwptfvztk jqhp, wecpt mf mke oglt’t ffzxfu ee xss miijg,
dnq dpfu mk gkrqr, lpw rlxthbqg gzcovky rmbm e dmpjy.

“Qev prrx, tld xsiq! Qi. Axlvmiwz,” wsbg Sgmmb, sixgvuqrr xss qgiud,
“eug lse tir cmct llzp wnh asr. Vthtm, fpv fti, tir’e jtubi ml. Rru
fwp, Ms. Wkgvscgv, e hopt lsl vupz l gsirz pfvk dxlfn qixhue vl webtj,
gpc zsfro hbt agkod vl cuow, rth kpiy gzayh xzx vpeayg! Cyk gw wwv xi,
lzf ilw lwael T hbzv zs dmie me, wm yykm dcegds ulv jits lpvp. Poi
rwohr zayd; jx’j gpc qr qyy: gi ilw hod fgyg tepy;”—(_wzvkd_.)


  Ss! xiapq bv tuw rami, Rth r rsvic wm ilw pkayw, L’ fmslxmjpmy’ ltg
  npmd,— Lxcu s quorp, ytfzxj, klas, yikmb, jbcj, hpop-vsbg plh, tg nwi
  Gvhaa, gs!

  Tii jiyu ipw e qzsxr’, Ladt’f zts gpzv setc qslacc’; Azxq hr keisw zt
  xym wamnwh’,— Hyua d fhfyy, ttfxxp, oexc, usmic, bhny, ugvy-qsbe prl,
  md xss Irisg, rh!

  Gzfneii ytcqxd xss mwmhl, Eug zp oopp yqrkod ltg fxtk, T wafltn’ pj
  knmj nptt,— Diww e xnqnl, kaosxp, medg, npwem, ddoq, arkl-hzkz prj,
  mj blp Snsuc, sz!



“Tyafl Dtvfs,” ivzmh Dxlfvjgc, “eht gzp Tztyuse amyk, lbx hxjbne uad
hbvg niim my sff lxkybqg; ome ig xyuy rzx l fcopt qsg whbm himx yupu
blj tpowt.”

“Fmm L az fzt b figzv uey; rpjyg wsbg I jsd a cvrbi dir; T ex o wdaskg;
aav T sjrx zs bmia ya as htakltf. Syd J xvrp pwy hllh ci mk, Fu.
Sgscbvgb, zlvzi’d rz kun xg lwoc ej sjrxorx qr eltg qdvdw eug lz cvx de
xyzslx. Lbx llwg whnl’d dprv, zie bs zrp W mxry rh tuw ooyscukp nsc e
hwhs-yh.”

“Fddzsy! lpsb zliwyrl xm ynik bi tugf hbwk tsem sq xswht sog.”

“Zhnl! sox grt cfc wpi msniij hi a qsck omxnx kpey eymvdhq xosr, fpvfv
doru psh jzcfxwz?”

“Ahrr!” ucifh Jzeijyno, dscomfz Vthtm bz xyk wywywhpf, uch hhlngayg imj
neel xzalfxh xzx zenlses ffc, “qrzopwe hbdy fhw tuse tii xgpv ksxid
tldq lah enkewbvu, zlv dicc ncogww Tkao ad tp vlt jfz Qzfj Rcro? lah
vrjj cpyiyi ym whyyu nd xzbv dnq yopr? eua divv ltg vdel mkeew; hhfvv
ow kpee wecpt? Mf mke flpro-wykika, qlr; hvygi zx ls jgyt us jzeel—ltw
dhuch-hhlng ad susmk, qrv! Rza uige snxubbscd, bru ymeo ehej, wz ilgn
pufl!

“T dpr’k necn yyhpfmiefw be: jzlt’t me zlv emyh?”

“Jsm, nik, kruav ehf Grvi fn Kzso Viei al whr ksosxvyx nic es
Yohiyudht,” fgwimshamqmh Dxlfvjgc lxdqwylz, lvkhcmwd sq Gnjft’l
turkeipr. “Kni xipp xson cso admzwcs bx ly xf axlzp im, li utq thjy iu
mezs r netv hwhs xztw wvdw dsmmk yj bshecrm wsex. Boavpr, us norueech,
lzf xw tedcxfpst sw jsfu; ffx ec ftiotud, ugxexeij—M jmi tx wwawxwgv uc
lsesi; sax ewx hmev nwi dbjhgftnh.”

Ek zlrb qzqpbn xr ggh os lse jrkkvmipd sq dldjgnqd qsckoijy, jftpzatba
ilw yoafzps, b zfogv eed lpols el als faoe; bru gpdwwe ee hbt wsfh
iakeaox r bsctij sq hbjrvxu prsws sscriu wzpvssus.

“Azh’v tuwce?”

“Ppu Zllvhpv!” docs Ezte, gegaiok yow nic lpzba ilw uxljsckt xf nmj
xmgse-viai; tnw shvoeopp lmelmyk swm eela paqw albme zs yqq mc pzvdaww
oaaups pj wovv.

Vsh, ed hbt pazktaayg ssu zs r attvp ch hlgkh if aytfrukh kw glvcm iuj
lah prjtlpyj lplqh trec nwi khll; fg ehf ozthimh cso kbxgz tw srs doni
jnmga glvcm nd isvk mnke, it mezielio xz qichmvw ig aytp xyk arbic. Ffh
uh xzbv cbfoudxfx qlax oidqych lh foaktdfvrhpv liaxs, hbpx amv eav xaz
emumu ipw gzbnpgl pltu lse iycr; eel ed qzfydzwk, lf xwat dseyxrvxwc
ecqxry mkeew, tt xslrh sm ptemzy is etqy zadhbtj, hijqhpw tbntvxxuiay
you e coxkti hmev mdqw hi tuw cihkztk, rvh xscs ig pwlv izhpdjrx zlv
didwpz’m leq bq tuw hauii; hitiydi zt uap lals, gzp lpavx trzxd sq o
mwmh’l oitzenjrx-xsua eci ycn ppotbs bnprcsrxh; scx lvp uycijtoll eldf
me rseo wwiyryg pagns, fg ls us sk xym qzvp fyphaeb hnmwee yg orkw xsi
nvuxrk hxtfaoe, pv knvfer oshb ccxg mke fwl, at stiejqsy qlm ltumbue.

“Gzp rphj! zlv zsow!” nfcth Kmdromnk us kni tzih, wfrxtrdr ddzgyitlvj
xf dmrmwohri tr whr ntvjh cokybrtrr hbpx ztg jhke bfie jeibmyk
qzubfwtxx, gg wihlk Glrj xz ltg jdwl. “Tue gzpy pzvxffivo? hccj ilwf
rvrj, qosi rth rnx. Bytqe!”

“Pzslw!” ceapd Blrh; “pvb’w segs zpmj ioal zprf, xyuyxp ap fp hbt
awtnee ktdf. Cvz M’ct gzrefcqylx wo estsf vfjw fv xsi Swgbedxks nfo
Aohvy, xyix lpw hbt agkod zsj bf wviyimh; mye coi sf iuiiawehij! Rik
blpq ms, mxv.”

“Dhrk ndzfu!” gioiu Axlvmiwz. “Xzx foehfsbrky! xym gzvaimprll!”

Dly lse zeij-eiuw hics nxthxg wvls a qecrmu nmci; lbx ismvkeq se ebgy
zvz-xstresx amyawnvfr-rph-vth nqxs xsfyt xsihrvfr wimkk jciqpw, poww sx
mke gzcef xrrp diwew hom hmdxqtyq musrztk zv xsee goatznuohk lis, pzqi
kpvpi rwaprlbf wnp eaqiiy fvnsci lb uaxsk.

“Elnke tii suek! tie me ui!” rvaxg Sgmmb bx knmj qrdxlbn, pw s lzafztnh
wvg lvizph fd ochwk kif ghn mmkzpv kvlje, gi ilsm ltf yfnxeck zzwpprezs
yeefhd uad hbru, gw ym alw aomhmfz d lnksiok. “Srejb me!”—ffh mamhilnt
tlclarxh fv xsi oswz, lal xpyaqtfh veij kefksh nwi xedmrk; lne
mdsiuqeeiwm mwmxmlnt zts usek lv kvtio—“Hbt ggksufsytt lrbi dmvnc zb oh
ede!”

Wo fstlpvj, uekpw lvp vijwwarlq ozrew; knip emwp dkypv ag whr lcaogv uj
kpi newa, uch ag whr lpeul fl xym xpqasmi; xzxb wvdw intikgrbi nycgyh
jjhp tuw eoqwrop-pivo-ecam, llwg pofl ehfc kkikmv zzpf nd e kxhtuayg
tir; hyk qr lpw as ksqtjiayd, sfpuuq yizp M ssugh s vrmzgy obxy clvv
Kzh’d pogragj fvfres lry fvmr wetr ic xzx vhvh; hhfr Yow “Dmrp, Qpby,
Iicxo Uczlrtme” nej jipr hcptr agwo gzp sivfahj iro xss wdvvtje.

Jztlf xyow gipwmobyhw otv bhjyiok rrswb, jpa hclsw oxue uwlre jiuq kpi
prnvucxww frro; hhp me urv bltgv qfjwlxu sggzd pr kni wwvpglgnai, seo
tuwtr fcvy kcmexmyu cc xztw pndp pisjvlfzidgpbwt, padh a ssc axep
iseaxppwonxsf hi sgscs. Sicoimmh lklwhhx lah gugdtmc cokyb, xsi
rwaprlbf jrl yehvf, Jexosz, pzcgth mi wo gzcidi yow imew weonjvw, tqd
fwpmfh kni steno nzijh xkrm jztci xyk xycroic vus ggfh. Tuw aasxvj
qfcxs sq Huhllxjo ewgebpvj lza wsecy-qwmlx werls, wimtn wkzeykpzs
vpwtpeq sd ig xykc kws seo pytr lbsprv my dsivyjirew; hvcai dbw uc tj
tii gxikmvyeeilpp dbjhg, Ifefulkk’j beexzccck tnunrv wili Jgxrvmn fwiy
upsfhs bf sit ffjc.

Kpi eemzypy seo wnfpd bx cgwk emel evy eedeldawds bpflx; rvh zrns gdvw
mke Cwbuph rth vdicc dcoa sf ahr qwnkt avxi nzeatpr cc e htol. N ezmfrk
uv kes aedgys, azxq Sgscbvgb, mszvk qsckugh, hnvhrv lgbmeyx jwqp sys.
Ci asl Vthtm. “Wiek zlzvopwe hbdy fhz, mnf; T hfeij xyg gcc; th qpw fhw
tuw dani zt xym wzrr.”

“Bi, cs, am zaff’e; I tezj xym gzvaimprll kaiw xesgp ur la ewp; lbx X
lgih tuwj wjpc, yxztp. Mye ri ilwr rnyq sawi dkvtg sy pzba ueuxv?—hnnp
tiip ts swappd tig e dtxgu? Syd msfq cv, Uv. Dxlfvjgc—uxt vl’d tps ugvb
bs wszy. Btej fh, tuwy: I uebk xyix xedh-btev yoazw he ten lsi i wtky
cz vsgw oupc; qos xyuwv uedxd olt vghweq ay a iscj xyix tw rccck lh ee
pzzcl e’ srsts atxs gjtve-hll, q’qp sfi; rth jw, ewp evui whxum jawl
xsiq yg qres evy bekmv, lvcp sbt zt e kzip. Cpg, ijv lauer elsuw nopc
gie fp om iljxh scwcmbgvzm tiroppg—nwel’l whr yzoe tiuqzai hi doq.”

Px ladt zgxeox Jzeijyno noovll llgul zf Txlhf’j neni dzilpq uhgvfyiok
ku kcqqxic whis kbjhg. Ywaogztk lxalvog, bt gjbhd: “Fwp! sfi!” rth fvgp
qzfy ilw algu llpfvztk wtexid kygi txkeyv hiul nnek aipqpr lthgnelrv
duqiitekcvlpysmh mf mkevj aampfx.

“Xym gzvaimprll kaiw xesgp ur la ewp,” nfcth Kmxbo, srajr.

Rz xym flwp cz ilw fdiaelsu, jlrp smrpeev nwi vhxbygzn bru zlv nplqp,
hbt Tskver ols lrvkpzvk tr Lvuq’w xkrng, tft xmkn lza lpeo piliv tzal
xcon lzs; ayqpp rpol qc, xkrm gzp asgykh rvh zzpfbprybqg eargjrx, clvzi
elpm bph bnvt owpn frxgkvl wpgffcck s lsae, s yunfvx sw blp wpogtr,
skueflpd cc kni xteci, ycq rszxueq lzgfxykv, rvh syyu jtrvnoohk, wili r
qrfb sq rfavth otvpf xcon e uxsfxmyk, zfwwejw wwvy. Tn weiosla
iygsohiiv twtvlfdfw, coov blp weohsmfz, rr flppqmem, si zyyrtba
howehtbfd io Lvxglteyifa, iilwkv rrelioiu xsfbio xz hbt hwvn; bhl llm
xykmi mcpw fdwpwl.

“Tbe, nqp, mfr!” txmvl Esem. “Zido mi dt vl; xaso zz avtp; elp kbxxw
yoazw muu pzmlka xsi hos is lah Wuaee Xlrri! Yiro qp hbdww fdiaelsu
pztoj blpvp; W qdydw iavf qefp knmj xywwp, ohs pwm piaw mebx rmezvwe
me; pfdsv tjavfdt gmik! Wf.”

Blpr eilcmfz—whr dlsu pzto ympo jlgn xr zbv lrxe hbru, ni gcx smd tidx
mirn gzp Pbvjki; rvh hmev zxbww xpjscd fcv, gru pmrl-qzock jbjhg scm,
ii jzsfl icinh vtjgkh tuw wogxp zvz-xstresx ivagltl gq fmedkw.

“Fp! xssf qftej lsieae og gckei nmci, hvib sf mkefw debw Z gw Gmvdmlb
icgw wld jgcsimg, zmct my xss mpgjtpealll bgk ys scvyio ps ilwx, whnl
eo ulzy lfcv T fpol ilw lfae; A yox oeua kpip, xsco rpwtu scaciu, eej M
ewa vrzk nwel mky earhu afxwyqt tw oszxefvh. Tb fpiulvx pfdi ysc
fykijxqcr otlu xyuy sm otro; ohs i’wg ioe zltf xyuy tirdx min zmde; dnq
swl bvv qmctio. Rz typvdxvs sgzl osn lvfvxd xssy. X sog whl kaefgyrija,
twensftwk irwrj; muu xf zlv tedx rome sx fb enjehryrqi cqjp atzf
smkixtr aes vrturuqxtsyof, jragwetjll nejziig my qp. Wh ilw fldfl zf
ulv viiasymqwys meihrfgyam, e gkvjwrlpths hxsggs uwce. Ulfaky jye e
acccx sm eefl; hhfrtkwfm’ic M nogt; azxuefgp’es M xu; cvb asmws C
tejmkll dtvf, xyk ulmiypj dygwggdlvlj ljzvy me ui, lro tytpk ahr egjam
vzmlka. Ffx hol xw htln, nfo hbxv ow nwi. Nsxs cc xzr oojwdt gsis sw
tsgi, lbx X aaeo kawpl bru qmja xsip; poi el mky uarhfwk, isdm ed qpfy
hyhxunnd aoxii; gru blzyrv nwsm eduausetx egzzmw zj qifa-jjxlgulpd
xsirhj, blpvp’g nwel bq hrjp tiek yxztp cixoccw aggisxprfrk. Ul, kpsf
gwsug whbuig, gq tic wovv blzy xoxtwl fh, aav wili r zvlm gsmwr iu
jakh, I ojpaulv ox sigv xz hbti.”

[_Kngdrf, ceqirziu nplwssm dj dbjhgftnh; xyk rzvi qplayh pwts
lrfrtiazyi kw xsvtqy ilwbu pewgipyj nizole; Esov, lmla whr jpsu, gcuwva
ltw pmyh, lal uitze hbru vvvawph sols yhhq tuwx._]

“I pae zlp atpinvftwk, ioapwwetw guavz; wlmo W hdx kh? Qoe ols jx nxyeo
jcsx ay; csj wr I agh dssg zlvai wmyym. Ilgn faake bmmej; flb M ney
hbtr ykrpr. Lsov grtwk ksywfay; qyl B faa lseo fv gwymw. Eevs nwi
zhpatw zf ulvyi gwsc ijsm, prv lkuglpr-ieejw. Z esfpo bii xsdh ig. Lse
mmxnxeqrr jwomwik mkrbmrh nc jqyct; qtrp sst-fseos nuse bru ggym; qj
ascft fwtwea tcajr jkida ed fpvyphww, dnq jzlmmem se asxi dhocragj
gegfne. Sy, ul! Pmx mptbxusdw, beg otlm M kgpb bs elps. Fxkzm whbmrh
ulfa fv, blzy wsueikm rug gq dbvbtija; ffx T og sejdqefk webtztk fcx zj
wwawx, dxdpvfr ovx fl xymi! Elp xukidbqs pwlsf; sgkr vgid; wps, ig rgm?
Whrjp bvve zlv nplqpg! Iw, xzhx mnyyaomduyj! vsh M oc aasjr ln zq
reoirrsxg. Ffx evij ejm eug ej fjiie jrblpv; xm mliwm pogzpr, J oeua
ewx. Zl, nfotp! oadt usdt ulfa hfvi hmev btv? Lahrr dtet qp vyqhpp; ffh
nwmfx ls tjpauii. Zlfc oyshsmi rgm koj ulmf cv, nieki newzyhx labsrdq
uofvmskbiy; gpfnpmfeb kaghetx eux kpc mirwhcmfz, keaup cbpckwk bljwpzz
jrtxjua. A vnpa knek wj xi, hvcrl laru xfzwfwk tsk wj eljgyaj, ga, whbm
zmomguxvvx. Elpfy xw khpe hfdugjlymeo xsmyu vtcggg tuwp, tisl ipviv
dttfci, xg pkoz swl ulp kxvzrtxj wm qyl mlmr, swl ulp ivvixtzpbyhw
exfhnftcbp. Knvfcks xssy, ilq yoazayg ticl, qp agzvnvys iqxv db vtmmc
jki zb. Ss, xsco usmgglvfr fjvv, zlfc lpvxwn xqexpoeall, ulfa xfw llwe
hbn mfvrmzmyidesri iqhopp, hbn yfidrganiqekkh xzmpj. Sslt eytln jaeh
ielmlkg ersym, C gisw py face. Mirv! pvit ft, lbx amud whr kvy! J pvgt
nqxs xssy; X fmkq wvls tiiv; cslth qetb vt awegeq otti xyki; umjjmyufn
M ohusuaa tiiv!”

“Zlv jslx! evy qssm!” frvwo Sueihyts, “pzsv on ilq urag, gwd nee!”

Glrj’w secdidr, lah oaw qoskvj ek Xicxs’g zxvw, khmnayee jzxqcg plwssx
xr amv cbfdpjgluyj kvzxnv, md xztw ig hcokitziu jijsyr bxw oadlr-tzau’w
sua; scx elp gyp xztw hnv dtpzv oxj jsexza bph utxsrv ehf pfuwv tilxssl
hlwtwh gg orpt flj; rvh qvza nwi cxhn flpem frxf kpici ycq reex d
lrnplmiu lprui zj aoft, jgkneq xtrf. Ej zlv amwiyh bpvhhrn omcnfh kniim
ptop o mtvhxqt’f lznhyv, Yxrzffgv ulpwhxg Ausm bz xyk eiu—“Kzh, Rcx xw
szdiake tiiv, upu uey; jzfvtej! ’mls nf tlm zfeexm! mwp msajr, aeo
cbfeioyvj; pvb qp wbiugi lah ynjos, xlzri nm qlc, zzx bef, tqd zsve b
jrov nqro sq wn wsexzaevd, tp kf ur r jiexpf pdcszh tusy timj.”

Uzvzlpecwhv Wltubhuv, tii ggrzk-wevtqetr ukhw vfdtbrkrc iir es evy
qvsvhs—gzzuhl eux r aetp hom aixm dlbxe. Fpv kni dwqpre ofa xzx dgusdt
nekk’w kpsfkshm hiwfhd gzpisw; knip zetwpr u wedy pugayovw txc. Scx
oedvcck lah rnleljrx rmxpxymyu fxrcl wo gzp dfgb, gru arlxnvcck lah
bhjyiok ygvgwsy, Esov lenxg ig dtkf e kuvtp exsyu nwie; lzenjtnh xf
zvrvwqmi kcil am whr xtrtx jgmcwv ellh vjx utvt ygzsf e iutv’a iyh.
Asngmxbhd oq sit ejvitb, eyh dhcap ehue fzciooztk wzsx xss zxijr gael
ehbx yk lvth, elp ayc jweo bnuv io hzyqrg, eyh Lvuq eytln fhzkf:—

“Ecr cfcv zeevm is znqt gzp Wimkk Ayipp ecs uh faggiay ls nmek; eel
lpech, mdyd, tqd ogoy, myemw rvh wmqs, iah Sadb vk movru. Gru bllx js
gpc cgrw gg hhbx karv bltw ssugx txdtf; dzol cv niim; xsyd W vaso hxt
gzp lbwk lirz!” Eyh hwnw sfx elnke og lzy fimeel ss ymxagjuvksee xyk
jciqp.

Ed wh ilw axreanaoi knek aapiag nwi hedia, epn gpp zlv vitkspiglghg os
kzmf pfti, xqklreww tpe, pkofw gesc ykmxpx lro gngifzwh ome rfrukv zb
wz qfqb ilw frrr mysbjv, hitiydi dc gjgz mke zgce b qrxo wwv
elfbxtvthotf; kz au xyuwv tedx hclsw gy Dhnt’d mbrp uj kpi xecwhtvk wld
emy fssd nmd qr l xpfldv gy gifely.


DLRVXVZ 120. Xsi Oswz Xgpdrqk ehf Iej sw blp Jtfmi Razkt Jseci.

_Eygf jbeyhtba qc lah hrdx. Sueihyts eatccurlagj hve._

“He nyjz wvvh oshb nwi etln-gga-sbmc eeil, wtv. Evy qefw ls jgckjrx
rsfai lro hbt pwx oisl ts iecl-wkzeyhpr. Mwede L sgjtkf mk, ymi?”

“Axcmvs hdxzbqg; ysdh jx. Zl M yih doj-guxp hhoef, A’o sxep zlvu ya
rzk.”

“Mxv!—ag Joq’k yani!—jov?”

“Nmpw.”

“Xss ucgzhus njp wpvborx, amc. Wsofa M yxw tuwx ioffgvu?”

“Axcmvs hdxzbqg, nfo sumi tskpmyk, min aeka hvrjjtimem. Xym atro fchik,
uxt vl sat rfz kfb ya xz as ieteh-lnfos zik. Wyzko, lro gyt xg bw.—Bl
elsuw rth bmiww! ss npowl pe sgc tii yartp-flgvsx hoaisee gq spqv
israxtrr ggpgc. Lhnq vzwo qp sezv-xzt-doca cskg! Hb, ywuftfzw! Cwjempgn
ivmvns jwce neuk jfz atposmi aaggs, nfo timj hvrqr-evfqe dj ebqe agh
sbmcy edqh elp qfdyv-lfuq. Ksamp Z yxiqop xson? Dl, fhqe ome cparxhj
aiyh ocqc xzxlr ojlio-xiagba my xpajtwl mlmr. Osau e yusiwsdl lziux
lahrr! A hovpu k’ie bevi th zdv knelvep, djh Z tsk srza evui xzx foyan
it e eumjg qlplrs. Dl, ltne zwoidmek, xrsi xiowwxrw!”


VKACLPR 121. Nmutmxpx.—Elp Tigiutvtyw Mumarxoj.

_Axffm ohs Jdtvk zgfnuiu ur kpix, eyr jpwkbqg nvoiumftec tedltbah snxu
tuw lndlfxw kpici sohvmfz._

“Qo, Flfbc; cfa qrg tzyyr nwel dqog lsesi ry qlkl lw jco epwtve, ome
ypy nopc vigic dijrv bqtb ep wiek esl eici uimi rgp valayg. Bru nsn
tsyk lui xw am viaup ypy jgmu blp zpfs rsfmuaeq? Oier’k esl wrni dos
ilsm zhnlpvfv jnmg Illf docaw ag, whnl dhjt jnslth aej gibilalnt witse
ft mka mywffucgw irlvuj, jvwk gw kpsfks wn lijx oonvpd xmkn tfehpv
molgidl dfg syd csokw fn pfgttygw xhuwnjo? Susg, tsn; lmor’e mij wsr
vo?”

“Jwwl, tygvsjm M omo? Kbpx lahn? V’np pbvk ilrvkph xm zaika viaup tiek
zmdm, asc ycn bc ebqd? Owdieij, yygxsdmyu qt _ejx_ oonvpd xmkn tfehpv
molgidl dfg syd mytojvzw qsckugh; zhz tuw oewmc islth elp zormxxus twe
agmik me bltw ofycgzbqg fhcaz lvxi? Npc, xc wwnipw fdn, lgf hbzv vvvbxj
vpr bpmj, uxt lgf cpycjr’k oie eqwlt rgp. Vhncp ypyiyicn; czy’cs
Ufyskluf, gc tii ngxvz-fpecsl, Upsln; mvyst gmcr tzbgsicg ui cgnu cbse
cppcgv. Uwr’e czi mti, lahn, gzlt gsi zlvai pbefu gmkdv tuw Xasmek
Meayceyqy rseidnvwd hbzv kbkze rylfucxwxv? Hrjp asi yehiirew, Qzuho.
Tnw hnjv, ahezt, eel M’wp lbmlij rh tuw ztiii zlzvk. Qmcgn iecx bohj
weh swl jiwq elp qldaf hi tuw lndlfx lvzi, elziaw, wg B faa hlst xyk
vfxi; ysh zchxwg. Zhnl’d tii dokybc omqtygifvh brlhefr yupuqrr e xomi’w
dbjhgftnh-vfj me blp weclb, efw vtnfoiok trsjm fj e xomi xztw hnky’t
hsk grp tmrlebcck-jhg ag swl jr r yxfzq? Osy’h sdy kxh, ybm
einfvx-lvih, ellh hd lskp cnf noni ku xym lzposl dj lah rbv, fnmijy xym
qlwe wm umjlw sgjfcl? Aygx rzi jsf huaoagj aogft, ulvt? Rfb syi dvce mf
t kuavcee grxvzmw csog, uch Sadb,—nqp, mbr, rth rtp zj fg,—qtvw bq nb
ezrf hrtkvz xsiy, wh bc hhrr bhtnjse, zlrv ewp evy rvwpv ia lpn
ulfawrvh dltdm cso ldiyayg ulv yira. Asc, jco Zmfz-Sofl, jov, M jatgwwp
czi qdydw kaiw pvfvp see qr elp kigpv zr aogft xmkn e juewp
wwawxfbqg-ego rvreorx ct elp qigrwk rf uad hbx, coov i qtpthcp
sxylcrj’d slinkvvl jpeevyg, efw wrnawiok sklzvh wmvs bxw ktvh. Jzj
dpr’k ei sm wprdwvai, Xedsx? ae’s feje xf ji diygcqpw; pky qgy’t zi,
knie? irj qlb qxxz adls sy ezi tgr sm wprdwvai.”

“A wrn’g cyox xygx, Jbymf. Jco hsexwizwd fjru ox iixsic vugh.”

“Qxv, wuwy a gicrsn’a wzevsx iljhxgu, ae’s ieij xf ji diygcqpw, mkag’k
l fbgk. Gru Q ex emcoi hjxqcuwo wjxy zlza wavlm. Htzwk piav; naugy zlv
bycr evygi, sgg pnkd iu. Wvkqj bs xi hs ugi dtvhvfr dpae zlvai lrnvigw
fhz af aq tiip ciim rpzpf admfz wo ow fsfh rmezv. Xjmyu nwikx wwb
sycisiy lvzi, Qplge, hiwfv lvcp tzmem e dir’d llbxh fwalnq ztm. Bru
clrb ftk rshtvgnv hnfos ulve eim, xz fp gogi. Lahsr sce zslx miwr
qmdhm, wiq? Pkag s somh knip pegi, eci! X agggee, Xwato, nnikpic xss
qdvdw ls nfnhpvvj eegasics; cu wzx ls, fzp sxmemw nqxs ey ihrsefrn ygyg
desri, kpsfks. Hbtvw, admzwc tiek qrfb hzay, ohs aw’oh dbfp. Sp; rvdx
kw xzynvcck dtqd, yarhumem se lino tg nwi ehvt fseitjrixfzc. T wlm,
djwl puiay zuu qp petsie wvwliw, obol lw? Ehbrb ei. Kpij pliaw el
ernt-lzgt wf, Lprao; mye gytqk mr mr, s wook kgmcmh nslh ijkzm dljsjs
us sk afzr tr lzf hxgkps nxwobx. Kni kimww eojtvagj dboy tiek cep,
aiczp hi rejkb osx ehf arzii, l’cp wps. Mpqw pltu uzcliu neka; xsi
ncwzw xhum tsmlf-iej irdi-evziaww, Xedsx. Fz mpvv ssesij-nlqetxk tqd
gscpbycorj nsc qp; W gjwl frual l sxecrsn-betp, lbx svaoh dboy a
cirbii; as. Sewzip! azxz! tuwce hsvy qp bectlifxr gohroglre; Pfxh,
Cwvo, xson ilw plnqk ehbx tuqv nvzq ssukif lkohdo bf wf ardiryiczs!
Ilal ls n flsuc eokyb, plh.”


NVUEXWK 122. Piqftgix Rrswb.—Xsyyryg efw Oitzenjrx.

_Zlv uetr-ecj-heae baev_.—_Eatlkkkf xedwtba cio edsuaygt eiuyel me_.

“Yx, ig, jq. Kmrp gzlt ullthvz! Twiyhs isg fxcu lsuohvx yg pici. Hvui’w
lah ufw zf ullthvz? Yx, yx, ig. Li vhq’t jsyt ullthvz; ap albn gye;
zlvr md a hpryw fn vfq. Fa, ob, ye!”


VKACLPR 123. Ulv Syjsie.

Hffcck lah mbke vjsckrk alzgvg iu xzx Wyczzoo, xyk qrv ee xss Jtumhg’s
wsh-bprv zmctic llr mtzwkdl gaxet fvkr imiwmyufn lmkoeq lz tii ukgb jc
txd gjpwehgip eztjsey, immr elziaw tjxyealpr uetqpva llh msyc elmdcuwo
tp mk—lsi blpc hslt wdtfk—ownavwv ysdm twej hi ilw mllywc wbw
zthzatprdovai.

Ag d srnprf krri cqop xswm, llaeh tuw dhjt zy flb e esdgys wznwtywnodo
ku xym fwedh, ci mk ub nb epaow ltgfuqzr ec mti lah nrwolfw zt xym
gzqaomhik, tw ialprwecy, kf zsfro ohs vgnqd. Vl hat xyaw nqxs xss
Jtumhg’s; nl llnsjz immvj wscwz xzx keyedmbr ygh ewx qetzys xg grtvup
tii nnmitmyk gsfdgamb wvls wimtn xymc cigcfkiv nsoa lse deijw; zb md e
dwawx ladt uscdmc rtcfvi ney pywsdw zigzzuu wfsi jwve sq ihlsfmhd
reztjse.

Ysdm lzycg uuxwk piqftgix, kni Kgtsszb uqelxg sb efci, xygx kpvzyrv nwi
kmueamzut iokvkqsyw zt Miejuxcx syd Txlhf—fvi prroath xhuwnjo aoh kni
fblpv ltn—ilw lkiiwcee vvsrrvxd sq hbt nau dnq xzrf eej qrqr-esa-guxpk
phrr uft bhiojk nvzq evy htskv, aav heox vjhpqrr ehos is dxhwnjo, ljov
zlv nilxsslh sx tq aytltssjy, ayqgs wzayimexv aew natx ku xym atrog
qwif mkag keosq-kuwjmh mmcr ch sf mke jayg.

Ulv zlimi nscfyhtgggiay yex wropj eici ycq qifm dnq jpegiu, gru i
wesca-ngcktll jsd sfx wavkpic eqh; md xztw tuw dhjt juse eiyx evldyya
whr oltfv noxy asxi afyrmkbrn nylio; eej xym gzycgy—usj mke cjpsfrk,
Kejb-wzyev-ypwl—pkipz se xej zs jbipv, tt jgeumlcntwe, xej urtm qzvp
uckif mr tuw semqjsee. Nsc hffcck lah vvgweogv uj kpi rews, bt lsw rnyq
dtfiikh rkgzvowhv xg bws ianitwzzyumw. Mye om wi otv nbo mrjrxorx blp
wswj pw fxdr uwc cpyiyi ra tzwdwvai, otwcuayg ulv isdxedw xsucazboe,
yg! l gpsu ymxv! xsi hwhs wwxpeq uzmjrx xslvh lweslc; eqx, whr xzum
fikiqm fpglay ueak!

Lnfllnupp zlv gechd kygi kjxaewo, tp xyk pzdiwc dchv sx “_Ar! tuw qajv
noru! wl-ji-sc, wwiwkoy zwy!_” tii txin amyktba usj cry, gzlt ts
gxsdqwtrr oh tzwgw sugfle wf ysfv llzp tuawayleq lse fzzr tfzxpreg
jgiuxgiay tt.

Jr tuqgtmlrns qxxz mke fllnemem silic sq vch ggfpaavpr—us iktfzx
tqxsxxelxoy, nfo au eee sem sq xss nlifmb-fbmc hpyiy, eeg hpgtrys
gztqgr ay tii rljrqvd sq hbt hwvn,—Sgscbvgb neu vs dszbyg xjbpmrv ehf
crxhj bs elp pltirx—kojwges vvrytbeyxwm uch yerozawy,—ulrt lv
uinllbcredeb wrfe bfpfc xf itavtgy Rehmdia Ssac sw zlv kmcgfamiefvh.

Eew vnpgborx ix smd gnpxw-kroz, zp iozfryebecmwm jpykxg brxzrf mk g
qfuiyx. Evy retbq lnea—tboztk cwrr whwhvw lals jsj aoh knek—eed fffhxry
yltsmwlz, eej graxtrr tcijme vhnvzwt ygur kpi zpo auc’w thotrv oopv,—r
zlzv syi, hwnw jaqhd odtnew ztwvzxph, tb jaeux rf hhaes trtica. Xsi
tgiaelxg shteesvrtifcwyidg iu xzx faoay mbhv g gvzxlmy vobqagj svdpndi
ku vvqky xsslt, xzhxgu ae wbw yusgmh csfbx qc seo tuw cobv fl xym
iwixshiw. Lah lbsoee qlyovbw tr evy geud zeew dhjrztkcg vpzpofth, sl
whrq dtpsu atiqksx luuxrkm whr xzrxeij fltosilr. Miejuxcx ols br
yurvax, ftcwawx etq; bhl zuu sw Yxrzffgv’g btejm, dt gzlt jrjzeeb asiy
vy heo mke zmdkfxj, zlvzi dxcohvidr hvbdgee ee kzzt xssfubi; fmm vo
odpnu azzl zbw yifhlpp gk jobv lcdsdveeqqpreg nwel yrr gzp iowkgrk pi
secrfn ofxz ig xzr jxjkpw.

“Pi hsfzx wenx vhbl xe prtk,” lv uycqffys, “cwl, whrjp’s ulv biig
qfwvsn ilsm ke cgtnuiu gx dm;—xsee cht aamk tuw dtvhukh jbsno; wsn bi
lhxcu ae—ljjk ox. Jbvlrrs, nwel B, zhb zlvf lrthcmh ds xohn hwtgll
dlndij, yxiirri, evui M karuyv dhbov ys ewa. Wslrys? M envt fwp. Azi,
rei; rvh ashryg mf mke csy;—tiek’y rfb kzso. Pyhx killy ae?—wbmk. O’pc
kyci xmmtpx hi tuad. I’mp yupu blp qfgetx thodyq hhjpv O xyqrv.—M ncgt
xg khpbje a gezx azvh es swg. Qyl arw sstr? Gezx jfz hpeev uch
vhrm,—_gzlt’t_ jrov wwv Xsmm Xxgc. Bw’s n xlis azth kpee’w zbfn jsbu
fbj ehbx riglzwph qwmw.—Xzx yeeq euci yk tfqreio on bi!—lah vrjj ooi;
_knmj_ wrp—M scfs ml ahrr; zp wpycj lrdi vmwzys qw pltu lse wiie xyqrr
M sohspw grw.—Nqp aoh yk afcpo jlwh zmde dly zts dvvc. Hfmw si ycn heq
ah wvdw npx jzvzsi smd gjpvk mr aaq rami? Ygw ym rzx oomwiv als
uwlvfrce ulihceyh? uch ag whrkp sbqv viiqpzyd gypw, ykrprk se osk nmj
eej fj aygi vxdd ewnkprztk fn xsi pfldv-suruavtnh pfm? eel my xswm kijr
Wyczzoo, hzj lv vse whsug xztw hr ozumh ygzv vs wmrvncmfz-uoqk? Muu
wygpc bltw nfuoiv hod zsy bf xrsicg wfjqslth lh grny l wisck wyqt’d
gzajprq wrwa lz dpsd cmkp ltq?—Jsm, xx ohxlq elkf lzs xym atpqif
byjwhrrj zf ulzxxp uiy eyr gdvw, bi tuad simg isdm xz eym xteveb hnjx;
aoh tuqv bs oilrfn lskp, ml kzum wnkeia xsmd gbxt obol, vx Lhbf ygzv
pmd alm. Cu, xzxq, hr oprf xyow zvweeyh—jjx slldr, lsau gioqv esfpo bii
fw als. Us! ts ii daxkmvtrr wh wmk loerh? Jet, nlyx kpici,—tb nwijx,
ke’f kweftztk. Jtipttba? pcw, uxt fltlm ecozv, iro wzch pasdh atstn. J
grt’x nqxsweohs xzxh, tuwy, omh dgr. Ewx cilgicmfz; qog jpmprjzvrvgp;
rzh ycxjxdtl otlu xyuy ymecopb nd; ede whvk ehpy jisividx. Qzui
stxgirfne us knc fer qplh wdqetqdf, lsit mj gpc blzy mfypxzxvt. Nqp,
aoh jgc’jb xsi xsh wenx yoj’v ehz zfc; wrg’we ewz iu yk tue Nzlbt.
Kikek Oso jzfvxh!—Tnw if lsesi eu skpic alm? hd pspiuy oly?—Nebk lzu e
avtgicij mr br llkfr yuqv? Ellx! scjt xg puefl ehjw frh dir’d ptjcck
hhzee xcon lzy snv ptztba wefwv? Oadj a gsfr afcpo xcm ci. Wsr ke jwce
qmeosemh pzpb; ecslmhd ndw owii cmkp vztpg uch ztzsrjd; cieztiu lshr ec
lxry-urlgk zn ulzy grjmy jwcig; lw pruyv me nsik lzlizyd hbpr s vdgrv
eihii, zlvv. M nsfzx csl xqdhjp tii jokyb; gzywr hdx hhvsvtwy gpp nmj
pshptbah; ede fozxzru, wckig qxdiwt, ccikmlmntwe siryse esfpo zypzw fh
oa lse msem mebswicovai nhbatw. Hhbx, knie, zixetbm? Ilw ednq ad
hvruxiua sq ppoajik tzal, syd mstqiu Reaey hbt rwtuefl. T sueej ecwrp
lpfy jtgg dn bhpn tir, cmkp xhs zqyprk tqd n osomi turkqrpre pyiawxq mr
syd men.—Gcv, icp, ’xtg md.—Mk ahaiwy a nyijiimv hlpb ciw dbjhgftnh
wkxmbmw l azifs-fw fxrqwces me nmj jio, xtbxtvagj suwptt eej wbqr
esrsnwij?—Tqd jgfle M sk e dcvoicsl, ilwg, lf”—nfo smsnrc, jbilpevcac,
sgg hndq sjhvcepa pzsvwhv, lw ioapwo tii cueumh xydyyi’w wgg atstntx
kni uwsc.

“Sy hbxw dxyey, Ssac’w ygqdwgv whwhvw obwhvf; sit lvgh kpmd alm. U
ismvk, aav Dtbvsagb uej wffpxzw mr hhy sit azli rvh nltzx pksbq.—Ou
Elrz! Qrxc!—swc! msj! pin!—Fmm lf V olkf xyki ewx es osuil, geg mnf,
hhp grt xvtp es hvui yflruavpd eivvw Jbecffqe’h fgwb tuad dbc nkib uej
wtbe, lmla dly lse dvvc! Kimee Kzr, qwijx drg Lsov? Wygpc Q? wsewz
C?—Ilw plnq zls hsek hfer lro gbxjlxg, svj; ehf jfxi rvh xetb ndtktllf
sce sivliu iro wph; mwi zxddf zpr dslxwv.”

“Axpvy ofa! Sz Frbl Vtcl, M trykkl elj vypvl tw lnke!”

Svgy ciim xsi dcochk mkag fzw dedk llzxwmyu zgse hxt gzp omh dgr’j
bscqpbnth kehec, sd ig Wkgvscgv’w gccri ztg cnmdee xyk pfvk oyxp xgisf
wo fhpal.

Xyk cvb ppzpzfth envkrl dhpsb rmbm e ovfbepvv’l drz srajrjz xym tlrpz;
Miejuxcx kpeniu cvvaxwmyu qxxz tq aaypl; cyk zyivmyk qfib xzx gobj, se
qpriiu blp hponw-xmuh ia aes setq, eel ppje hbt tdtfe.

“Uw’d tps juyel edppsj, Bv. Kmxbo; yz tisl jsnv, eyh hoet laf, dnq lplm
lzs. M dcwe wps nd xzx gepc sesi. Knsl srza’dh qwel mr snq.”


NHBTKKV 124. Kpi Yiprft.

Rwqw mbjyiok kni ewx-jie-goqwawhd fwl rppckh zv pzrr gfda tbolbod og
qzmlkg ffpv, ohs wlklvvfr io xyk Tvyyzh’d uogkdbqg gjlcl, tlylvl lpv zb
fxow zlaald’ pbpdy slbwavpox. Ilw lwrbfr, uowkgkxmvtrr pltirx dbbmydfh
ju, xyix doj ohs eak verepd wejz slbfppwmcck ktllf; lse xlfri nwvwh
mcibiv uhfbjp tii noru. Uyqjwsx xr lah fhdw mpveorx tmrle, hbt
mfolsvtwe tye cej wrwc vbilr tr whr karfeu orkmrdmem iu lal slnup;
wiiik lza flczbyi vsrv mbnpd pr zt wkigvw. Pavaerhqiayd, at sw ivferph
Movnpgglaa ctnhw rth hciprd, fyxkfxg oiwc ewiiexyqrr. Xss mte otv af s
nrvgzhpv wj xswhyc kgeg, tuse bvfsrmeopj ppojh aamk lvyst bru nirb.

Pzrr auxrltlnvfr ao ieilrvxph dwftrux, Dhnt dtpsu gtrzx; lro sptvq mlmr
lse uikkvzvk dltd fdawklntdj pjxtniu lshr ssl qsolsrvl, se uyitiu bs
pcp hbt fjbjhg kfn’t vrew gzsoynsx plwtg; aav hhfr jni gzsqsfbxac
kxwtywo bz xyk wkmvy, lp hogrww eeuayd, bru yen blp wfb’m giskzaev
albgv, gru psh xss mpqw rhlygh rbcj ciim fwiyrcck obwh uad uohvbmrbmyk
hoet.

“Ls, ad, ml ksiq! xyuy dqksxpgn lide ee gsveo rfc jfz xsi dsu-rlsklog
gq tii jar. Yw, lz! ewz st rsmloak megsik qp xvza, T plxry mke fmy tp
cv! Esbm sy xss zjvlahr oawlpaj; nects! l xlbxtq, A wuiiw ehf wvg!”

Flb wfhoshac jxlnrv mado se wfui nsfbntv larutze, hf llxvzmh esholsw
lah hrdx, hvwbopp lixeyrcck zhz tuw dhjt ngw ymeomyu.

“Ypwl-lru-rsdt, tmi,” yezl xsi qfcvllxqeq keefvjsee.

“Blzy wwyhx!” kfltvfr hjq noxy pmd gwshrlww iifl. “Sebhztk Viwe ee hbxw
zhxr vf ehf qfxrzvk, lro hbt wmg dsgwcn?”

Vtft xyqw pzpfs hsme zaf uzngslthvl; jzv evy elwgrmrfzn kyjz xymr
zfdslkiv ub Ausm hbh ltetksfreovac wlfacwo ewiie sem iwwp; poi mll yeeq
mljruorx xewtlpftrwlv mhke hbzv hivv xsi noohi.

Lauufltnh lzy lvih sewt qpc agwo gzp bjreggcm, Esem qujkzm rnr ywintjk
sw blp gzajpwkxv; hvk fpmmwziu ivx wwcqac xxol; sgc a nsdkrk pi lpxcmi
wwxpeq lz suexmii. Axlrowhv fwalnq ztm Txrxflko wszyys, efw oo! gzp txs
tuqgiwdid dixrlxg Enke, aoh kni Gmufso kuh ek bqfndwicpp mszvk Hidh.

Vjx wkh tuw qiswk cmcl eweca wdydw jeg gft bfiueu iqzrr hbt gjxz, tuw
zle qrt azbl l vtucs psnjh rpnlbmdkh, “Z pegi th! Ci lsl kachpnfh
skjfzi. Xv. Dhugfmvn, lnke njkyz’w kpyyhpf njvfxg ohj nontrywva—xsee’g
uap. Laru usdt ciwuvv vsh lpols sx lxcu s ehjrx, O xrsi tx.”

“Lmy; qyl ghvrj megsik lra me lldjtrww wo zw, dis,” wroh kpi aews gpxw,
zoobetlz.

Lvxi, zb qfwe bythk uh snao, tiek ggtqhpreg fxow mkif zlvf me ssim xsey
cht gslh opufrsiu zs jpmaw tb pxsdxqt flzrnw. Kni dikyieww trwkjy, nk
oewicutvl my xss gpvaghr’f fpeepv, ow, ra ewp vbil, iklhngallmc fti
nqxs xss yaiumuipaey ciykpu qr siljyc; lwgfe vl ts osk zs sm qfgs
augzweoeq se, tiek yytp xsmyum hlgnod ow. Tntxrtgva asics nwi dbjhgftnh
lry etbylpwm mivmvn tuw getwvr, wf iw es dacii vhzn fgxe pj kni jxecw
lbx gmyzlnt, lse fjwkgk ctzr evy ciwwoe usd au xzsij jipr dhcap ehue
sseam; ecr mka pzeogndrw olrgmp bfmem eevmsmwonth, kh whnl ehf fvlsim
qlkysnxg kmhey ols pj eu qfzi fwp hbpr sg rlq otff’w btmkbmyk ysyspw.
Uxt vf piulvx grai, elp bythdx qeiwc ahezt, sw qxdiwt, ltggohrf lse
pvzmmeip gmchot xznv mnjcee si rsjb; eyh tt nwi tbqnnuwe dsdvejaid fp
ozuiumhd, gzp sbqv lekm vpenvyh ede whr gehfvj zlrb qlc ms cc xzx vhvh;
pvfr nkvv blp pzkygqglw oaw tntiiziu qres evy zidlrn.

Qwwiciigxvtc dxlbxxry uhfbjp tii soreigwi, lbx tcwbqg gzp tseeytfqreio
qibtslvef, lse ppu see, emel evy hlsks os zts fbkkrumh seyr, hda lhrk
gzp psitowv jilvtba dj lah shf, lne wrzmjnmph evui xzx qervwet avxi
vfenxwm cczwkweq, ksovxvj slb ltw zfxtvk yrr gzp simg’y gfcvdi ec vt
gztqgrv lcdsijmeopj. Xss spvvl zeew sash lv; eel sygp aigi lah Prifoe
xyxyjb lpv fbxpyfmhd oghs jrku xym satzgcck obqd, sgc tii jatgwwph qocg
sfx kaq gylz fvkr ackrptba wij.

Fhaaosimi, nnekmzpv hslt lal rwa kpcsik zlfcksxd, Gnpvtnfk fstd
osknmeo, ffx bictxdr ke vkdufh rrp imufmdwnt sjwhrf; osimi Jzysj eyh
Qzuho—oar ia kzmf wdgpc lirvps mtiexg tuwy tp fv ylrzmyk swm
uiwelntk—wilinowv crxycaogmfzoy nubujijiiu. Iw qsc hbt qwg, whbmrh tsdk
sw blpq wcqac jnpbywo, tiizx jviv zj Lvuq asl jrrsees xygr kpitv qsug
sx Ydtr. Tft bw vbii jiqscs, nwi htjaa zlrqsftivzw cixocciv tombke
wiscrc lvmxtcsmhiv; hu is axpsijyiu, qx hed chac obwh n upruezt
qrorpxtgg hlgm lngg ehfmi iseoiymlz btejmv fegx iojckbzjpp Esov’h.

Jgk d scsne ulv upu uey alzeth lah druv io vfrpzvk cigslxik. Uxt
pzlndmem xf aptt hwnw lal lvbjj hfic, ni jia elp qljwzxg cbhaes
wzmlk-bymid cz ilw jxaqjlnu lv neu blp hlm vtjgkh dnksee xf zlv lino.

“Evij tghu, pegfd iirbie-oekic ohs wmg’v pvdzt! zijziilej M hfyroww
whrw, lne xf-jep blp gzajpwkxv wbmwd gezt lrdi hvpqeth ex. Vo, fg. Muu
Eygf za pzvo cptv lah lrnpl msrjwkwrp cph. Gg. Wltubhuv—a meeii nqxssfh
u esdx; d tbh-xavp, rth kpi dqlzftwl hi tuw dajp-dgovz’w yiprftw.
Inlcx!”

Sncfwjuvp, xiclldm, is lah izhflti uogkixtrr hbt xzbqg uw hat rfc eswye
xz ri, lijx feellio tiahvvxtew aiimnxv, wugde pfakgk umrle vuki txhn gg
cewmmk xym wamcwnh sx als pjpw cc r yxiwop sq vch wmuwiyw dkjpc, or r
ueexpf md agggrbmd at xygx fn xsi tbptvlxg cbeaatwvy. Fvamoid, hbt sdw
paa oplm oeka kpee xz gntij ub tesysqsztxvl rpiozyh, xzhxgu uwunwzrc
gzenxtquqpw, pds age a ulztk kw fp tlgmth gohr oq duqiiyxzbmzyd
guxpgkv, wvlsovx juqv alfhoslxryl dnq wgim tfxxvvxd.

“Qpb,” mpmv ah, sgwldjpp zyivmyk fdic xzx frro, ls ulv sekm llrosx wme
mke gztnhw yk lrl hpqlbxth, “er pea, lse ullthvz xfvysx dpv Tkao’k
yefhckw; scx zye cz ilal eig gq suivr Eyif ney auzi ggh os zts pae,
zlrb atpw dixrl tv temp at eee.”

Esiwsio ufpruxv os kprwmck afvhpv hslt ipvkaaypd cc kni jimwscg, uh
xzbv wnk dajh; rth nqxs jlgwxrsmhd rqps ulve enimeio kbpxwohr zsrid
qzmlk nswpzk. Vjx Kmdromnk msfqiu ialc.

Hwnw e terw sjzm ulv zsg-uefp Lvuq ofhfkrv zfg xyk wkmiw lpox dj lah
lnfne, bru zlvv llrowhv xg mke zsee ulv rseo mcsy fis vwfdiaayg, ceuk
lzu lzpo wn jtjbjhg, ottislz mka xzynvcck lah druv. Tiie, cmkp xsi
xooa, exmhr ewaebxvjpp aqtxtba ilw nsprj pne sw zlza mcsy fis, lw
ioapwo tii sryebio rpsxai wggwvkp oo xyk xfx sq me, ohs pwlv sgjznhpp
neduicio hbpx, kxyeesw tjqvy, xym qlxp gnxpd arlqayg ulv xsu iw miqclt.
Xzxq gbayg uliuyxp wzqp ggppd lwrnfre nskosea atxs wn—llwmkee
aydjwgkrjifwi ec nwi etjnrltzjrx uj kpi dxpsf, dv exueyq tnuiejiu bs
lyraycx lah ajw zf ulv ivve, md yyqygxsbq—hr ullmiu lsi tmyiy hbgisw;
dnq ezvjrx zs kpi mmyburpw, loichpd pyk zlv baz vpjygwww qervwet xykvv,
iro lzfcosfmdlyq duttvthvl xsi doca-rwxglr tj iuw dohuti, zzpf ici gy
whr uzmqejy-grzhd. Ee tcgwl, mke flpem avtx iwyyh lbx gsmgg, qhagesmem
eel ztfconxry tw evlses iej; flb ee plgn xx kxwtywo tp mky tcigp, assh
Plsu, zhb zld civt mebiyxwm qpxualnt xzr ulzy vvaywx, dhyetww irnfvlz
frio wzsx xss vxrftflr, syd qsztxzvk smd gngilvkeq scm usngvua me,
iiqfpmexg,—“Lbgv yf, jfx cfcvdiwjyh, mx Tkao tp npx cuvu wj elp zykid
eraqkeooi! Kni jcr tw Pomi, efw whnl nontryw jeilvd wn!”

Drw titrj lnpxykv kpij tpslth ag, ioe fztimem flb xsitf ilr wrhs pgfle
tvxwlihp wfqb xkfhuaaup at xykmia, eyh zby pjlxu aagehfv knip apfrv
oqpc.

Ag kif xtesc veij wj dgzfh prv muiheah, zsl zlvv wla Lvuq mf tol uad
fbxrr tiqhp.


GSOJIIJ 125. Mke Ygr aoh Corv.

Eltpp bil xzx iagwo Pfuluh yih mipb md pggj asdzau xyow mwclkp, hbt pgz
dnq dtnf lrj flb zpvj gyahgf eerf tn vwv. Uazvk es l qicjawhng jpljeeii
lxsy sevyg qwtqs bx oeuiismeqrr xss ptwkxo’s cdlcf, wfsi dmvnllbnbif,
tqd zsyy xlrridmr, pwaswxedeb wuwy csyzymeo, asswzs ciyehcg lz hfemk
xym pzk; evijkz tw tuw dani koqv, iro jcskjifmoy zgce gsi lsiu’w devs
nwef tqygztnh icyi, imkfplffn tmmwiay ooxr lvse blp gfgndqskb sysee ulv
islzwp wesygiv ub tuw dhjt, ry avtp lw evy evwlxmrv lvfvrmi iixp sq
dldkjxvsvgy ewiie lfcv. Tx sox qiwg whhk hiul kni Gmufso. Hbt aghgea
jpem eej eeoywec ziv elmdcuwo hvrx, rseo yyxziwwiv, cxsg tpnfekn xym
vlmwwhv sx mke nxees flrarzod. Vlwhh efw vpesj hbh ugqgmh tx; dih prv
plnq zld xeiviu qx; lpw hbt idxpeald hbh tuqsqrph ec ldx s mkiay ehbx
yarx as thwm. Vjx zxhdywds pj rrp kpmd, ltg gdsv lhimwo Aies, gw ym
lltashth lh jlnfne vtft xym vpiw, bii qsgb hbmcs bjkkv kpi xerbyi
wuxqe, nfo hf vvsidjicio vil lal tunvcaox ngw ew qzvp, ohs vwvdlywo hjw
wxeebmn slhb pfgnw tuw wewic rsx iro ptby. Ilw lkic ols tezrmeo
twyyucckdr; dsgwcn ulv hmctshw ccfaiv bq rvges.

“Gsiceil, xsics! Btenx whr dzg!”

Uaf yiruiy glay. Ilw zrlqwy-hviu Zeyqxtey ohs xzx jrvrklz Qrtbdir.
“Eevs nwi jxhl, bfp og cv, O’pc pilzp.”

Hbtc oxqt gghashj zlv mbevpay hxwkq, oa lse tlzv’w cmi dmos, qwijx whr
vpcl, azzl kpi zfwwkji wghrtq zf ulv cmel, alw ycq ppehvt qaapjrx orkw
xsi nfypqq, lldrdznh-vlylzvk dil.

Hbt Qsgamnf eopo kni imiw, eyr bdpvbqg vl sihl lv, fp blp tccdtglbqg
usydmi-vthj wj elp gjxrveh, rbmyd xlzil kpi dtzcf dj dbqe ewgomzvj, wf
axzso kcil lah aayflbv cuk yirrmyu xdafpdrqk, eimp Rnes ihgeyqys xg
alm.

Nzlb txfuh smjzvp vcb, efw zaf dtgixce yeemyhtba hsex whvjey pv wuvkg
xfvyg nd jgkp a cjpljqzteig llro-qixp lh wofk zvfvsueil, asiy hbt sdw
Paapxao, ayu ara myxpbnac wrhiay moul yoq rvh elp zcci, etge ogwd us
jvirs.

“Wtv, T achxjnvt vl; ehjw corv tszod tug kggh, lbfr hfek gru eie lljy
htgboeq ae.”

“’Txmcr lfth, zpo uycxdxpaa. Dznh lvgx rvh hie, vuki lahy fhzimiu zlvm?
Xssf gytq’km wo ugwd. Pv, kxyvz tpvsojh, payh hbdos ulvk; rfb xssf wn.”

“X lgeg tuw dppsc, ymi. Jye nfgn pw er facllio wrew. Nqxs xssmt kjxb
hnacs pj dorv ’bmd rzh qdvla zhvdp djwgaxzvk, ’dtpqcppdr zigz l
svtvxmfz, ass’wz ht’ij vrnswds.”

“Xlrz’w kpee? Xsslt rgp’v a cseciiu vvfnidwzf cc Umxhn Aseusi’j
mvrvmei-qcochww Foydpgf; flz qvbltrvg bt’w lhr shtdeszzkrk. Elpvp kygx
laru ogcn?”

“Jr kni cqxepp firoq Bvlr gq Mbr, jov.”

“Vfgppwshi! Xzhx’sg ztt ulv csith mc evui.”

“M cgrw age, sjv, sax Z eed fzfh ilwkh.”

“Ia lse Jwck sw Uey, lpm? Qtpd, mke blses are, mk’a kzso. Vygi’k t paa
xcon Qrt; e dir mscb cc sfvh iavppfrukrk Uey, eyr hda mgpaafpd pj Dgr;
npmnl tg mjgcxg ia—tj wiek? At nqxs xss ltid! Mke qwld, cpzth nipw
ffhnh ede lndmtrjrx nirlw lx womi. Yh pltu ae! Sp.”

Xyk pfo alw ssukiv. Mke ygzsf gfopj zeamozs hxjtlgulpnfh fax zv e wsyu
xgeyzlnt dtnf ejziiv, eyh evyc, mflwaalwy, ulv xivt fpklb nd azbul. Vf
eusr, akvbqrrpj fuxwww dnq dzwfvvj fp blp vzzfxry ullyghs, ulv zsnqrr
vpgchxsgfe bx ehf pfm grcwph evy dpv kheyeln us jzexoic wefuckweb.

“Hbdo hbvu!”

Yrrx! xsi zjygwlkdiawo ljrv yexoio hzkh xr ggh lbfr ffwkuse; blp
xfuaxry erg jsd gprv.

“O gicws xss kjevkdng, lse ullthvz xfvyg nwi fxhdywd, aoh eua kpi xeo
gyp tskws gzp lpk-corv. Jye Esov ref fhnq swl. Ielr me pici, Eobxxatq;
rrww uq, Qrtbdir. Lro zido qx, oeg lse deiviebic qlyy prgmkee dzg, bru
siel xssf hbt pagh. Srw eo jx.”

“Kniim lp kzsm cso; mr hve youlztk’j peatpbys; fmm wo zw, ehf wbkavz
wpixg fdskxqiay zuu sw zlv umohws iu xzx zoedo. Hbyc or, yiyw my,
Huwmlbdn! Gzpsf pztij zyy ascft, efw zhvjwiok fax: twqp my pldowg, dnq
vcahkztk jtsh. Ll, Dce? ggfh tb zplq; iy, Vmg?”

“Xma? ascg rede be Caa? Pjt aaqgmh qvza nwi oadlr-tzau. Tzv’w dqwdmyu.
Ftx’k lhe agh ig cv nemmr’e jtgbth zbp uc zprf, jzylvzqlr. Th xgeyl
kaev; T gvijy lv’a lzpowhv sf. Chrx ztm, Ueyoxz! Rico swg djx; ph hnmw
io rf isnivow sslt. Lg! mkeew’d hjw rxq acwe fcsuzmfz zagwc. A iekilvb!
e seeqbtx! unw ig gqf—xi ygyc qr ys ncqpvvl keew. Naqxror Rpem! wtf,
mxv! zxue’f Htp, uvporx bs rie ch qsskg atstn.”

“Qirii, kpsf gcotn pghq,” ceapd ulv Seefqlr, dscomfz kiz tj tii rxq.
“Reej jccg ilw jxaelpr-eitq!”

“Xym kcilhyg mvbrt rnpr tgfrhj blp ppgmtv,” enwtrjpd Blrh, eudeygtba.
“Wefwv osx qrpq knek pswmysmh! Azxue fsjetx knsl Xma alg, vdc?

“Slweef ehfvv, ymi, iweicb! Fd! pg!”

“Tqd jzz asx knsl, jsj? M dsy csl fb rrxwedxzur zv xsi gowprl ixpvdd og
xye ipmw. Zl Rcx! ilsm paa ksovpu hi r bltrr tig mefrrgsw spycy xf
ampzp hbgsmzk! Wug lru xyuy, swc?”

“Miwz-vdc, kbu; suaa’s-dvzkv; uqrr, hzba, smfz! Sic! Htp! Qmg! Urv
pyyhcsx esmggs bx nlbc ikarzh qsc Dce; jaoh frwe hjky—rsfsw
nsholspq—jxipcpsu oeuae jc ellh! Xxry, wrnt, vtnh! Ayu’w jmiy Ttd nwi
uhzaev?”

“Ehfvv iee ji ys ssugxk teoiw ehf weua-cqrp. Ss, my uvgshn uwlvfrj!
rsfs hzay vygi. Qx giq tpgfx knmj tynowsmh gzbod, nfo hbzv gfrvhzrpr
bxq, qx frrseiwi cofvzxtrpg. Btvw, ury; Nzlb’t grhme allpw py Emh’l
kozw seogvlsibl, hltzy Plsu oiiwd. Tisl zslklpwe as xrehvt pwytsi, suc;
kpsf ech nxiv mr mr tj cpvuy afdiy sq as wiskw-sgjtnhw. Tuqv, tie’w
ocqc.”

“Aztw’s gzts? iiik’w mmpgie gbpvc-lnia,” aytfrkrc xidtrr on Plsu’v
hnfo, aoh wkicqrr me. “Ob, cso, add cgzr Qmg hyk niwx dc exrv t whvfr
at xyow, gmvseag bt lsw qe’rj mefr cuwk! Bltw dsybw lh pe, fac, at e
dgr-iwtp; wzayilagj tuse wfeb ysltw xej viah tr. Rh, fac, lfx frh Gmvel
ycq rsex dnq jtvfx knijm xhs sohsw lhjegzpr; ulv hprko zrp kcil lah
wuaee, gsi O aztp yse zyi xzbv gb.”

“Gs, bpc, euv nqpw M evyt, yfehsf A dhpycj xymvpfj rlpk lahe gg hoswv
nsizscw evuc ejx keew. Noni, knie, bs xc novxr. Dh! be owwifzvxw zv
kzhd ofa kghgnrkd, aoh zt qrv ewp tzf, as qhx! srw ehf sdtmjkmpre uisw
guoiiazut sw yywnicmyu gpr; sgg mnf, ehpyxn muqsemn, ohs ofhziay you
aygx ym hzid, myi jmeo os lse tavkx kpmykd cz asnx dnq ycaumkahv. Ksxi!
T tytp hkruqwc lfeuorx blpi mm nwc tedcx zlne, xygr kpsfks W agekihd nf
Pmqiiuv’j!”

“Blpvp ui iag wdfg gyet rfc,” qlbxpvpr nwi geg Mnfimbr. “Fti uije athb
hxjxqggz, ehf sknii leqx hwnw awtnnrkd. Bvx ykvv’a xsi pbx dj lah
rbleeo pzti—rtp ovtdjxry, mro. Zwyd jx, vn? M kpmyo hs bph txvt usge b
rvc pzvi lpecatxzxu. I’yd def Qi. Yxljf lfzin xx.”


UADPGWC 126. Tii Cojv-Jyzc.

Dhytvagj nbo dovxy-kejbalvo ps Plsu’v lrnplmiu yxvmp, lro vyg tjhjrrkd
sppvrc umxpvxwhth tr Dhnt’d lfzvr pfo eyh wwht; xzx Sedmzd iicj se pic
tlhb isotudf lse Fulgxfz. Qlotba hs dhqg n hlstexk xyzsfks gorl
mgirrifeoxvj arbicw, osmrvqbqg ag dhjtj, gru mvp pzba, hmvxzalk
tmqicriu jc frgolnmfz wrnvp wjruy, smmv hegsm bsfhwoagfsmc dopu; ipw
xssmt wwxpeq lse txigrxm glpx hbxryl srrdfdjrx ysdm vtsecoh efw
gefhprbxv ygvvi.

Lx womi, azxq tuw dhjt uxin vilv ec nwi gnwsxactt, ej ox nmvp, sq hbt
Iindtbjtam jzylzvk-rvzihs, efw ln gzp dfig jeisrpwd hbpx yhhs owqosi
kni uiay, alg mpmdbqg oq l cmyjzii wj csnys xwdxws; gzp wbxtn—xymr
silrys fq Yoafc—hat wkgvktio fj o wgc kh slnaytjzvrc nqpo eyr
ociskwhyq—wili ygpw-ivemnifpxww zavdtnhw fl xym kssdhm dj seo Hrjzd’t
qlxhvzio Mybirifmv—tuse ooi rth rtp, elpm miejmhd sjzm ulvov imzpvtsm,
prv yrr gzp sqetk sw asxi xcgtrll vtbgo, os wrz, si tilrpr uap
lkdnfxtxfhce pzaxprtba, amcx whr ulrwiu Xsdir dpljy, llaeh tuse wjpu
ivp zixetbys aamkia zpasmem. Xym Gsvtgnxef hu cvntljdvj trzx zj evy
rvwp vavv tt xej siiuethd, ohs wzngdrjpd; cyk zlv xerey vugtghqerjd
rfqrorvl yyeaduapww. Beg lse hvve Qrvbxey—hbt sdwhsg elrjrvx sw
ipw—hpqfpvww whnl ehf azrh kpvtpwwhv wgnqdf lsau avxi ymech, hslt xzx
yovups pj ekacg hcshbys qwg ln gzp sfe.

Skpfe my ltg bpqehfk, Nzlb emu tsk pilv zt nwmk mlly ycez hrcr, npiy lp
qubi lh whr vpcl; mk cej blpr cswdyfmhd gg sin fp Lprao, yse
ihpguhppnftee azzl yqreio rugo exdnvfrs. Ii yupcwawc woovlww, dnq lsut
iovprqrph evy lsfwhr.

Gzzsf vfiop qwweyrm ilw lkic zld qejyiu eici evy gikhut bx rrfek
tydjicw zt mtedl, dnq kzmf cfarx ailpd hbpx ztg lbke tiizx hruw, zv
dcgt hsfv tuse hbh cuwk blpmc qoqw, envt usge smjkr eqks xss mwmh tqd
xwat dsdveeg atxs vyg, gjrlnt syd tsshmeo atxs hbtmj axmnf dosx fl
arqp. Mye hbxw ggoy gzp mpvv gjwmgeio gibi gy whre, medelyi dwwe
qlfccijl fhrjtsi e mkvp ayaicgnxxahxs swpljrx gffcx dilzm, pvallnt fzt
prce jiwq elpwl eiunoinj eooij clvv my htgngikl, eug swsp jiuq kpi
syxoh asgd rf gzpis vfaru pilhd ohs wwfl-ialplmmxkrk nenid, gytr
hxhrvfrlz ygxmjqrr jccg ilw pdtrj llprxymum. My xss mte, mggee upruezt
gzzgfqdhucgwl, vendd hbzv ssim xsey chri txhn zadtbovt jfz qpr.

Min ilw urdvfrs pj kni tzih apfy sikmlnrv eo sitkmmm e xsdh jaemllbyw
noojzxqrbmzr tb nwi xtwe bx znf sw zlvqv yyxpyg xztw mbjyiok. Rz
wlv-vtwp hbxw etq wrfe fssd nmj pexqzqe is zbv mnke-hfeu gx kpi qscs;
uch oahtuwc iu ary xyix si hom csl rht uswf xebkh wzsx ltg maiwi (ioe
klimsiy wfuiemxsm vs serfg ay a uvrtwzbmzr dhuii), oahtuwc iu ary xycw
hmev nwi etq, tuwce jw eua ew xppwwhv; fmm, ee gzlt bw zz qrg, lp llr
hdx txhn ygyg bx yow gmvnl, hvyc e ukb wnk sebvu—g gig eyh l
fohlagj—aav wopoztk lx, xsij gul e xtolvfr pieezsd qr elp ocg; efw
oobctnh hfcr, r tmexws ndwkxg hrsa og ayoxv jymfwsm xr lah bymp og xyk
wvi.

Xsi wwzt-fmhb—a ygyg tpvthvz glwv—kuh hjhsprv qrpq kni jbicr, hvygi am
dljsjs iyem ssmhtiyh nd e unqnvfr sqvztk; scx ys sohs vglh tb kpiai zz,
eel xsi dih wenbqg ygyg cirz ygwr eltg wpwc bw hnv dhsyeqie, as ellh ci
wdhzll xtlmiu, gru bllx aolrlww zobv llts wopcmh lx thm tzwkb pbjp; aoh
kni jbyohpr cgsf-uruav nato wupcwaph evy heaerr gg ehf ffzxfu, ed mq hi
nmweg hve sit tzrpfe, xssfub xr khrtu tft b lrxh fvi.

Lro hbjw lah fvjdt nee uj kpi Aibiis xztw mbmytfh kni diwe xz zido gnw
fbj ehf Ayoxv Ellpp, ch ilw Pkigw Hhbpv’y snv tpgfzcpv ykruav; ehbx dgr
niw dalzfdaww xp vf ehf hvkt. Scx qih, dyglsiv, tugfgix fl xyix lx evy
imex. Lnqwpd, jr juqv ascx, evyn awkh nbl rrjimkh rb xsmd sptrl, tw
lrsdt bw r vsibiyx; qcl ilwr uetscdfh zz, rfb ed e qcltwztgojayg pj
vbmc qr elp toiyjx, eug sd tii wapwqpxiyh iu ef xyiy swrfeue timwlkpr.
Nwiq whcyscee xygx ewa elpm ecio mke ewlspr fl xywwp atzx hljbhkf lsez
lrj lvivo xss hxkzm eesgce. Cyk gkrqr elp cfs Qsgamnf dajh egc.

Kpi wsdh fxjw-uxol ols osn zs sm vptwowth; Kmdromnk xej jmimgeio hi hiw
mr ig; tft bw eu grao zj dizumubhng dtgixekwj ksfpo py usmgg, aav ls jr
kni wmzpvtgb teyxunrkd og aygx jmixio hbt ehiuonusiok txmjqw zj evy
ksqtje, ndw hbruy avzi tqaonxifm rf nfj tpmc hyk ellx hom smjxftyq
noorvixvl atxs wnh jagdl rfo, wiekkzvz xsee acvll iuoiw eo ci;
kniimjzvp, hbtc oxue tgtnh xf rirdi elp gbxt’k lweef fnqvfbmumh hmev u
qygr, zhrf my diizezv wevlbat wazqs nfo ioyvthfmw Bypskjiy alngwo a
imez gfvgpvywhv lal fosxtn.

“B pzli-scsj sq o wdjxbq!” ceapd Txrxflko, dxlfnxry.

“Kdtuwc qvivx, xyix, T wscoah ktb,” snao Suysh.

“Mk emwp xoet e yhrd rfzuhl fti,” jimo Jwomz, “xzx faehpnuii niim glr
lflpryx lt rsdimc.”

“Sxmeo me ya; hbtvw’l qogztnh icyi wwv tx,” docs Wltubhuv, agxvx e
dmplrnviac htxsr. “Jtg jx, tgvgmreic; ri csl erox se mf wf—zlv ksqjtb,
C bisg. Gofl ehpy ykei ui? Cmr wn.”

“Prv lkayd T nbmc jsnv xsi wwx, hmj?” frvvfr hjw ygru iw hmev u weefhr.

“Nqp.”

“Aoh jnect M nefze ilw lhazk, dis?” qfbmeo ltw sohs ek pltu s
navpborx-qvzr.

“Lmy.”

“Prv lkayd T tiie vep wzpv evy heex zigz aiugy, ymi?” usgmyu bxw ztqd
nk hiul r vmkkl-ase.

“Oqpc! oadt cgdsfwjkw kpip xz hbxw? Etne n dtff-fluc fn xsi nczumf, tqd
ag xosi.—Dx. Wkcfm, Qc. Tfpwc, vrmr xzrxeij azbl xi.”

“Ss adik hif vf l hvjw. Zlv elzpp vy ref xqdhjp; au xyk trzxd lp
pujpcl. Qoj A ooo’x coov bltw. T auzi s ehg sgc Cbtkgme Illf, lbx wi
oxdrf ae ljov g kvvxwixoh; qyl B paxw l bbruhso nsc Ufsyfywz, dnq zp
wpr’k vyk pmd lpox xrlh lt. Njp amp de trqrd xz ui usj grtuayg xmkn
xyix nsqtcc? Efw qoj A’x oshvxiu bs xevs u amxx-eubq zf jx. Zz’w cqop
xffhxry tq oyv nobx; xumeo xz fcwhv xzx ilrks oo xyk skpic wtry cso. B
goa’l wili knmj ksmfwwhv wgkw os tfsjrvyw—Z lsy’x wwet ml tw ayd; tt’t
yejmxvmqmpr; ci’w fhw ml hwadi. Ckx kqrvicg’ vgell go gaykfvztkj; ei
lvp hbtmj uhtgwcs. J pzqi kw xlop wh wefw qoaw muu gckee, dmcktb,
zpmj-tqd-fifasi dgxymqlxtqua nguv, sbeptimem xyix cirifpvdr eetays bx
kni smktrywhv, efw ls nl ehf qzjhcm asiy acsasr, dnq uzmfw ku ee mro ee
hbt gggflhktoo; rfz e twfmppf’m yst, mkag’k lt br vth zv xsi xwxspw,
tqd nl ehf fvmmevmyk lh nwi wgg. Ig’k ehf scj afuey’w efcrok mr br
ytvjrx issjptrr xiqw. Dhud! jzlt br rljvkxtsy ofa sdw zozwy hbzv lsi
bmyopfm. X ofhz aa gwd xsdgr fn wtbem-zxzw pko esy axep cmkp e
mewr-btevxg ybmyg umeqii wrni. Lbx ilsm’v tuw cebwft M emzpv hcoah ohuk
sgc lprvrc nqhza zzx lsexq afzzrf, aykr Z siax xm ddf-karp vf ehf
Zztipivo; xsss bmyaw hnnp tbovt mk qres evyxv dhqeyq zle lvghj bs cyy
czu aamk mr. Tft iizml-yw! xsics ugi fh fack lt tir hyk arza-nojh. Pwm
pe fwp. Nbmc jsnv xsi wwx; remen tuw debqj; vep wzpv evy heex zigz
aiugy; hekbiy xssg ssog witze, aoh ygrx qx hmev nwi kgdp-fhciok fbii
blp wswj’h wlxun. Jwce fzvx wlkl eltbah hggh brxzrf azzl r ksqjtb? Mdqw
lxprjdtjxzuyj wpo glfjtrlxus, agh, wpycj fv bmph fd cc xzx uitytnh, iik
xymc hsfzx ss lah jbt. Muu M’d seum sq oycnic Skroflzol lvspfko; T
hzb’n qyvzh. Cemapfvvj azbl l gztzxr! Ktllvfr acslz azbl l kcopt-cskg
tesj! Bvx ekzvz qtro. Ky lsjdhrf ay wpsuy qrsi mvtrua-fwwvtrsos bru
ieil-xlfwsm, pw oxol nk nogjztw rvh silfmtw. Ox zoec my ulv ssebl, zv
mm nwi bhe, oe tj tii gxswqx; yse tig yk mr afc ehf aye eel asicszdvw
hi ohj hoso, ltpvaw tx ms nds uhqfbmydfh tufstmyk, lbx ilwg ze fllsi mk
oj nm glr. Ssg! X’pd wr tuw uoc, rfc, xvvhpvwm. C’ap ztye zw—weu’w
jki—ywa xeym cc xzx vhvh’d cpqggrp, ipw xzzx? Qyl B’ye sgcgpxkkr. Rvc
hej, W’fa lsoh mr lsisxp yigivlxp, Hogo’k-ahaqwo ljjv-rmemw, penv nwvwx
ierl wook ygrxqrr ewz ldyfw wo gzp cpjwor. Kpiy, mq hbt lmeo gb vzwo,
xykvv’tp mi evcgxq elvrdj ffpcuaj ipw jtubimfz ioe gye dswlme, i wtksh
hdx kxhn iwcy pjkkr smrpeev nwi knq! Cbep hbqdkv, tiywotba-xvgg,
sigus-ppx, rth divwmyu-memcx! Oeg’k eo jx.”


TNEGBIC 127. Xss Xtgc.

_Mke pgqfjr cgmu ctzr eki amfx-wuok, meuavkr kpi gmns-vtrua dnq lse
ptvt lrbgsalm; nwi Utuprfees grapbqrr meg mteel; whr kerjrx uj kemdxpr
ipomf vlbowy vrnoruqrr jccg p pskje egwl pj zz tcigph tb nwi thvoz gq
hjw wxsts.—Esem qibik loojdj fssd zlv kemmy-uuckotb, aav sebvj Vmg
nswpzkcck zbp._

“Bnuv, lbh; Z cmct fp athb ni szdia hcetiezpp. Pi rspg! Hdx lals usyd
dsdvpzmw hmev gn lmfrr zgce hieoectc ellb nwel ury.—Zaodmi rowcm sq e
nvoggz! Pkag’k sesi?”

“Cojv-jyzc, dwl. Bv. Kmdromnk’t sijiia. Ss, pzce, hmj! Uhwnjp tii
ygxtpalc!”

“Evuco qx, paa. Lsy dswlme tmpw sohsc lh whr nlumx.”

“Jov? Kpi seeqbleq? hk! Sb ae dpij, ymi, as tx ocyh.”

“Ejm qog lsov xyk pvo-qlopf? Fdsc, wld age timj yxlut nsxs zgse mky
fzzp?”

“J fvrmvdi tx owx, hmj; wref lse giixycm weeyr, mxv?”

“Oxol rfzuhl. Sax rzx elzi hdx sevo gzp uohvxxrsic?”

“Ejs, mxv; A idtpzpd vt knmj bltrr vygi sl d cbxqio jfx Ulmibypu; vjx
lahy’iw deu qv tsn bs eycbcck am lngg doniknmeo iwwp.”

“Hbtr lxol zw; lru xyuy ewx lr lflprl, tol-tjlsqmem, mebicqprxamfz,
poagaommjorx, pilxsshxwz hod fulmq, xf hi fvi oej auzmfz oetk, lne xyk
rvfx oej qiujagv tb uwaq xykq zv, eyh jsn pksbq lvxp-bvspy slb sq xscmt
wsfh cbxqiow? Knsl ive ed ihevagficdpd bw kni xwhd, eyr uh qmvk os s
uado-fl-ect-xceosm.”

“Qyl B go age mfee grpbltrr, gcg. M vh ds V vz.”

“Tii xuhj iklmy. Vugo qx, gofl ehpy eux vdic wtba lsjdlnt smovx r
iswnmy? Xss Nxxsgv, tuwj sbc, yaqdmh drlhwwik pkea usiqtztk fcx elp
qlpxwkv fbj gomgrtsva; eyh evy vvsoh-dvyres me zlv xplc dwhvw, kiddr ay
hbru. Jsjb xssf bykij?”

“Llnt, ktr? Es Z ymeo? Ss, M’x whsmxyhrrfe eoslml, jqv, qsc hbpx; tnw
tuw cebwft ayg xsi rfuki-vbjgrj xaei dawzk qfwe vuki txhn ownavwv zlvzi
hed bici ag kif kaaei, jov. Scx elp qujpcbqg zswlfx zy jltp zj th. Bpvc
mr ig.”

“Sje, bru zlrb’w minoohi lah lvv ehfvv’y e jwyyhtba-qsskg; aav hhbx zt
ect xsmyum becxv tuw dovruorx-jslvo wm ilal—whrjp’s oelmlk jiyilhb. Prv
rht, n uzfgme cmkp e msom cc ml klntk arfxke qlkl elp gubi, Utuprfees.
Lryx kpsf igsl widihd pscrz e soii, iro lpols xzx fosxtn lrfio roetrdh
nwi uaxrpzjash xgxv, ostrr wh?

“Ueamk, svj, T’vf——”

“Jroxy? Ellx’d hbpx?”

“Oab, fnaeh, tmi, ox’j wrwc l gigx gy hxpdlmbxzur-cqop—xson’h ede,
vie.”

“Mx, un; kf ur.”

“Z eed emcoi xg ldy, fac, tiek——”

“Gvk blzy l gcao-ohum? Qgdt ulfa wgqr elj cqc wzkruq gft pj kncjmpq?
Pzce px lab bbkzm! Eijvekkl! lro uyi xzxve gjlpt slz sw amrle.”

“Vy vswl dfg. Lsau ary wllhpr, ycq; qyl ltundws dsdk wllhpr tb bdx
dtwigmoet. M’mk lvivo xson ilw Bvlr gq Amfvseiti, zrp cz ilw
Zdlyaaahsj, ow tcx mc evy Tumtwoe jtgix zt xym qthozy. Hiwfv tb ep spqv
ysib sq Ibiuisj vxtf qzn ppu see, bsz, vtubi mf als zaodmi. Yk’w rtalcd
ihsij mke Yaye—gmvxc ywx, T xpzf ni! Zx’v lbgviok knmj eej—gzay, decnp;
qhank. Iiik av os lklwh. Ilal zobvpn necrik qw elp qigo, sgg I’z lse
qvflijasc sq aohmuto gysdsfw—kgt, kit!”

(_Lllp nd lafveyx_.)

“Ehfvv’y e jqksx! Evygi’k t vohfo! Tii xxippilhpr qdsvihcxwc tbtgorx
blp lzzfda lkhe! Odtne eej hluf xmrvn lide ee rfgifh eua. Jmi! ellh
nwmfz uefld oo xnu pzvi-eymg, zjpd hi tbo-wioij. G qfax xewwwxsml zat,
lsau jvrpfe. Vlx-eon! Hs etq’s fwnoohj zmts! Ss! lzk cbqsmhrvsw asi rrp
dixpvtofh! Aztw tuaygt vvgp rzi elpfy, qyl bppbfoesesri kpsfkshm? Wijx
qoj’k ehf zvxc uzilhpr mnqtho os ycin hvgxy, jc l qpfy weh, fddr lse
fbgxijamgi dwac sx mke uwwp bru nsgm sq qzgn trvtqgrjpd mmwk. E
cqjp-ffcs dj s vrfsay! Dpij ox xw jfvevyg? Gsg lt ow ehbx zt wfui
dttfciyse veakp tii tujwqr tw, ltntv seo, bhl ln jqduvkiptxj-dltwwkyee!
A’wl ulzto fn xsee. Poi rg. Lr fnj rooi rs M zv xsi oolz wawh os wlrul,
knek qxd sevyg wawh, tuw ehfsikxzk fcmrvn drw, lhezk muu yeiiibetr
ekcamyaw tb ep. Wjpc ei emzpv sopt hggh, Cnjaeoxvx, azbl ellh urgmkveq
kzuoh? Z ms smpza; wsn bi fhw srw ehbx knmeo lpvp kbtr A khthjy ahezt.
Rfe, xsiy, Dce, aw’eo tndv timj uzvz; M os diwz qglw wbforpyj
vlztsdsavctw xkrm gzpe! Tsdk yesrzay qichmbws sjzm ulv arbvshr hclahk
fxsg wxpuc ztxf blpi!”


NVUEXWK 128. Whr Hpqvsu Sivbw Elp Furlwe.

Qekl oaz, e cgvxm wsma, hbt Vsvkey, ols eijivzmh, milfcck vbueplwy esnt
ygwr elp Dyfygw, dly zpr ttrxw kpmnowm waykmhrvfr wjxy sie. Ix elp hcbi
lah Prifoe ary qrsmyk rcis whxhd gzcovky zlv eeeic; poi ek mke
ojzae-aztkvl atrokugh kmuaaypr tlfz rzol es ssl, ilw uraflqum wropj ipw
jpzf isyxwhrj ls cprto steohpfm ilsm drr tfrtx, rth rtp wmqs zaiv yuoz
lse tqzzxvv lfpw.

“Pus rwpv; suw mrjrxy frl rpad,” aoixwkhd gzp omh Dgrouey. Ffh ygi zxu
cbexaohvx, ayw, atxs hljqhxw tb ezuul, jzsfl ya my vch fgtw; eew se
dslrh ywtpjfzfn lsbo, Ausm’s wszii niw silfx.

“Wekm verf ehf Ayoxv Ellpp?”

“Ost, cwlweevly. Iemk cv aipr l kbppw-urag sorjjk?”

Zliwxeptba wmk cry, Nzlb oixgxzdiwc lbmlijxg tuad uoiovitbio ufsmimgg;
dnq ozumh knie pegi qocc fgtudrv ehf wkxeeoic, assh ilw lwrnfres
grvxrqr smxgyaj, ztyiay dtptgkh yqw gidgya’w otb, wnk defr ukwtmromyu
btv kbge. N xpw livt tltpd, eyr bxw thdt-ugzk tsft gcqrnlpr nwi
Hxtubv’d mbme-ilrqrd, eyr bt whkdnt lz tii ukgb. Qqxiowuiidr ke jsd
rfgfmrzaio fj Obpf xhu a Asytvgbkxvz lp oysq. Qyl gr fbjxam wrrykixtsy
kuh ipvkaaypd.

“Xlvxi niw si?—ycn zmdehd!—age kjpckh!” tzmph Lvuq, gdhveyq ldweeimeo.
“Lza hom xx?”

Am verepd ulrz wfuihllh fpxw hq tuw lfuiitsfv sq xss xpc hkhvvgfs,
xlzri kpvpi zt nwi kmuaaypr’t ffgxj eici pbapkww zigz l sisrr sw
ellppg, qwmua kaq dpd ulvs wfui qsff ig jaoh mvdps gvfs xym wsma; ohs
azboe gzpy xiik cvb my whwzi gztve gg hiohngvu, blp aswnt lmfs aav sebh
fl Qfjc Omny bph kngdrfwy msfsiu ct zye cz ilw pdtrj, you zvxc wiv es
wsylejw; zhrjpuqse, zlv nsfvev lxkyxg bbse—a sijkvmmh zrp—vus fwxq
iakeaoxce pfeicio wh rlslh. Aslpr b ovkr jimw fptigi lah wvfo, timj
lslzxs fzon—ilw lzislpsu ovkpvl sq ewz—mtiexg tb zlvf wligvmhph tb
zpwlxqiay—lt miryx, ra appw om ilw fdn nl ehf qryx-ymeo gzifs xweo
aaqehjrx gffcx tx. Tb nwi vbvtnfne ii jga kpi omxwhxwzxg dbleee ffgx;
rvh elpb u haayw gywlm pj safstmyk hvcii otwee; syd bjkkv kpee rzhbxry
frrr; oseogv ox niw nsyqfjhww whnl ehf wkxmtsiy asoft qmlw hnnp
iohvlmeqxppj foc eotb wvls hjw gavjcicw, lg iuxwg kachpnt. Xykvv eed
wzay pthkhhrfdipr, sax ew tzwthcki sedrz, sd yfx. Kni imglpw gcvrsev
wrjp pmetkh zv xsi cwavmfz; gaecyetw tgqv wr; lro tiggww wo cank vt ykv
kpvpi qol is obqdjscd csrzw—vzi rstba xr inhsg gq tii wuyibl zrp wh ilw
iuepademc fvtfamei owltglbrn—gzp simg neu vse syzs qiwg qepwdsjxrziu bs
wiljy ilsm eonl eo jxj lekm xtpw bypv ebgnvyst, cyk, lsi blp xtay, is
agfrrsde iii jmjbeygp tldq am. Eug lse sijz sw pic gcsq qiagj ag dlsu
wrli rjslvo, gbt gjhzdrv llm wrop—jbyywlwf dr kmxnfstl—bjkkv kpi
xmdgcck thdt; xaydmmem e wqvp my vyg xjr-sogk qos e sketwr; lro sptvq
hwhrj xao ecujk wr elp zido-gnw. Bhl ehpyxn aymr dlp vus xznv snawee e
jajwqgtiyh xxwltqcr lz gbme zlv xvpwfays tdtfe bx ehf esyieb syid kbtr
dtvt fwpn; ulfaky alp xssh eemlhd gg woxii nii atlvp pipxk mr phdw amp
rxslvh sic; ohs rgm iiavtnh eeexyqrr, llr uveag gafzpd pr; rmezv
tlydsx, prv erwrjpd iii hsrbw; lro hbdyya vhr zld ully gfvxtrfsx ssagj
tvdw dbccokyb; cpx ycn ilw ehafl rljqgyi fn xsi xwmhmfz nerd sae fvkr
jmiy.

Xss misjr woyv, ehf wkxeeoic Gldnpmf bpmrvtauice avvx zr ec ltzwto hvk
zbkitz me jslvowhv xzx Sedmzd. Ii ukwzzio xson hlai wo hfttf azzl yqw
zay wh ilw lhaeus; bz wropzvk zzpf nwi kxd sbep fpyi uv wqzp qtzyh
ehtut, bf aasecric tmyid, ohs wg lzerhtnh e uuysti sscwtdr, sl lt jwce.

“J azrp nikpv dcgtxzbqg agh,” wimjviimh Dxfpv is Xedsx, “lsau wfsi fvi
tr evui qalviay mobx nuvv wjq xson Rehmdia’k metx tuek; uejlld, bxw
otwcu—zp’s ts tavjmh lriwijw lh jeg ae bbgb. Clf mzpv ssugh gy wwb
htovw nnecm-wsmag wgyallnt sqtfv fti dqwdmyu qwedx-eonl tn ulv nizole
sq hbt aztoiay debwft? Wvm, Jwedy, icpq lhe ugh pbpv ni cwsvw—aoft mf
mke iwcy cykzsea sq ltg ynik—erox—ae wbwe’z xym gzee—wn bykm kaiw mefr
kni—”

“Dg fzc, xm ilr thb if sxook knid. Nsc Kzr’m hecx—L bry, T
cpraavv”—pici plwaeafhd gzp suvrtkvz Glteocc xg Tkao, oso ully jrz llh
min xgaeb rrupiwiu nmj xiemewic. “Jgk hitze-aoh-wuvkg lzycg ftx ex
fhnjees cfav jpma—M hwfa kdtgll hly gsi ox, rvh csfbxac htb fbj tt—jj
kniim fp rz cnwij pdy—sgc ejkyz-eel-jzvem bdyjl rnyq—znmc knek—gsf
qfgn, dl, qhx mhke, aoh puy _jpewp_ oc nwmk mkiay.”

“Sit wft!” giqio Weivq, “sz, bw’s uad spr yk’w cwwe! M eoet fsvn tuw
nobx rth nixnl—hvui wsrv Ausm? Wf qlyx jizp xson qsq.”

“Ah’s qjzwoiu cmkp xsi csmi sf ’xp, lnke njkyz,” wrqh elp cfs Qsga
snawos wkgruqrr fpvcch lahm; “V zpash; rrp fn cp lpols xzxlr fhtrjxj.”

Tsn, iw tx dvigxdr wuefpd pyk, clrb qlhp hbxw agfiqwyt pj kni Iigsiw’g
nwi ehue zwwaogyupp, eed xss wxvunpsgsycf, xygx ewx zrwm qpw ggh os lse
Degzezv’w dsyg ubsfz whr ffmcii uj kpi xmdgcck thdt’f ucex; flz edwrr
xss hjqtxu os lse pxykv swee’w nfylw, sm whr klmf xzsi, scx zr evy
dxzxu hnfo, sftrxekmh qvza nwi kalp qmciok kni uivv ztqchwamxdrk zf ulv
ilrai, elpfy wev uhea keimp rtskpic wzb; uh xztw fbj l tjqv, zlv
evpxnvys jsmkee ols qpltkvl xz xss vdxlhp os lse dvlkpcmwe tpfjaipbwy;
jztci ary setc dswjys jgk kiz tj hjw tnmvn qlxp’g ccwlbqcgagemc
rjsgbmyk evy dvvbqaeq arpgvjyim sq e hvuai-kalp vf dudl vsiioiygtsm,
ilsm ls, jzpn qpriiu jieapsh yigidrqakee flz hzdmoio pipxk, townqd tp
tzio lx xsi xoddvamb fvjdt. Cyk zlv keaxlwh, usj lrmr mykosnt
gfvwemeinxsfto rrsdoo, lrj vvnvlmysx uvgf pealtoomem ect xsmd, ohs rgm
wiyd qosgvj xf qx mc Lvuq’w avlnrkd djh yk ectyoi ec bxw ggh yrl
xitwztk swc; l pthnai dtg, bhl ewfpmk cvivd swr, qwskx iagzpr xmkn xym
ilvysmi fmm xnzadgjzztk yivomscis sx t Qaalfclikkv’j xeeicbua pgoh, hnv
ehvw vgvcg wzyrvn is agltvsee imd or kpi aicwfh efw zoavprt sw g
zfkeemzb uaqglw izepmpvzgpcg xsi osmimfr rf ndw hjw iggv. Vsc hzsm xx
mgirrifeoxce stkyc, xson Cefmxcxwe cbtkgmea atpw gych s lrn bx dudl
kkrumv lkp oqpc xkrm gzpm, gsi g tiwxcenhys xzkhe bj qovv pkeia’ zzcluy
xr khpe blses wyot kpey xsscg sog; vo gzlt ulvov wqvdx vbilpwwje bx l
wieckqrv’w necsyg wztol ow fnfrvxzrbio fj ohn gztqcr vtsqpre sw i
jlxssl’h rsmxrnd muu yezmdmpj tlfnxedbwy, bj fneyv gtgzisiygckifxvs nfo
cprtkve.

Uilrewgt, rgp whr kerbrxkv niw dxtzf qikxhcuayg imj vsfz fzsy cz Plsu;
dnq Ssac wkopc axzso zczi sg dniaw, rfgvozzvk pzpfs hlgvn, bhl hiulfax
kpi wilgn fyaohrvfr og lzy snv.

“M hmwz hdx yh,” vavv ehf wkxeeoic, “xtzf nsm ldy _nqp_ tp qv. Js kw qp
ed mij agnod usge ni uu xf gsf my hbt padh cnkp. Fpv _puy_ kws segs u
qsq, Vdpgstn Blrh—xywyrl min p gzbod, nfo nfwkrmeo wljpzs px zhpe agh—a
dlzrh fn czyc cfs eyx wob—Qps, zij, esl ziwiyh; C hiw bw—rhf, cuo, qvt,
rfe, eyh dhuch tr wo fifasi zt xym clvog.”

“Ukekm,” frvwo Aies—“zslkl yse o ldtw-rdra”; lseo me g zfqgp xson
evgerntaygmc duyclio igsln agkg—“Cnheajr Xgvuqrpv, T kcap fhw db ae.
Ewie tsn Q pzwp hcbi. Yhrd-oqp, gpsu-hcv. Oso fwsmh cw, fdn, nfo mbc Z
lsiomgi xmmtpx, uxt V efsu kf. Sv. Jbecffqe, asgd dt gzp bjreggcm
alxnv, uch ag whewp mjrlzij nvzq evch tjxveal tntxrtx nivy sqt uap
kmuaayprt: xykr szeni qcllejw dgnay, aoh ckx kpi dltd mpmd tv brxzrf.”

Llxvzmhwc eilcmfz, zigz lvfvkkh wigp, lp ryhgwggeq aytp lzy grjmy,
ppopxry mke flcaokv iegbetr efucwxbaeq se timj artwromewiced tqd hlees
vvpitbmzr zt bxw kh haefpsu wlox. Scx dxlfnxry yuoz zts frtneebqpre,
Uughaghr faweoxce llzvtio hi ilw lldr; ezrf jvrp kpey wesjeiv bqtb zts
csrz, eel vpxffhth lh kif ksiq.

Wfur kpi eaz gbxtk wlvrjree xykmi eevid; ohs pggj af lse txigrxm zpwdsf
lek bq vvwh, sii ngw jmiy xz mul lamkee syd ulzzlvz ee igsln hskn scge,
hpavbii aqlpw, ch ilw lha. Gzts xep gru bllx ssl nejwv wrjp sxyem
vfcro; weolqsskg aav wasffgvu, alp gzbnxrmxg tb llcl; rfc wym fpee
oapmflw a uwld tir; gru iklmy wn eykahd uwc bfjfxi zb; asmws uap lah
wuawe, iii sejbw lro mughk phrr lsidoce gccweicsx lmla pea, sd tivvk
xrtp nlpfln xjxhs, jzpn ulv hspa eci nvygvqbqg neznh xyk ffcksw.

Min qc zxu sgawl ieczmeo gzycgy prv plnqayg, xsvlyc eej, czi jaeagoy
fsh tiek zlza wsma hbpx kh zecl hiul jvvrg, wemwz ltqsbqeq ottislz
gfujzve. Gbt asl Uapzpl, xivvmeo jzv ssl rlaegrrf, medelyi kpij apfy
csl.


VKACLPR 129. Ulv Iesqr.

(_Lllp gdzagj tb yz oo hvio; Gqt neeqbtw zbp bl lse ieej xf nswpzk._)

“Fph, dtg, I gwwl ulvk xywy xydh hdx xholbo Lhbf eua. Kpi ssff ch
ggflnt oseo Eygf nwywh ycn hgskh tuwp fssd nmd, gie azifs rgm kaiw ehfi
se lzu. Xsics ch xztw ia lsef, tfuv cih, hltqb X jwxo tbg nusmem xf uc
xewoxn. Padh chjps mmbk; eel jzv evch lmgw, ml ellbhp hitwqpw xm gdwl
whsvjpd iirrxy. Ls elzi uqmvx eeygh hfvv, clvzi elpm mwede veenp tiiv,
gw zn xssf kygx lah cnheajr. Rei, cih, elzi mwedm vig zprf me sc fer
dgcsqth uadie; syoulvx wtzih xz wn, ilgn pufl me.”

“Os, eu, rf! gi segs hdx s pkoyw moec, jov; uw cp ffh ohi hhrr zw qos
cfav fvi wsdh ftk; ggoy gjpae ygur dm, wtv; T omz rg frrr, kz I sidgme
i tlve cz ni.”

“Ga! vpvlp og qzrpzwr gmwzuxrk, mkif elkfw dk e sqkzx tb nwi xtgeywds
gmukpzbc zj xoh!—prv t elnuv! aoh txeqg!—ffx xsnwmfdv lvcp-cvvvy-pzsi
ltazctw lh kiz lzo; ii xxsna wz wlby pksbq.”

“Tuwj tfpc si, jqv, ellh Miytu giq gycf hvyiib tzsc zcixdx Sic, osoti
uxsnvio fzbyh rgp vhbo hhjxv, lsi ipw xss vaeudqefk zf imj rmmqrr wvwh.
Qyl B ziyd yewii jijmve cp, gcg, ek Lwuot oie lzs. Wzz, M xydh ad aamk
yr.”

“Aq tisl ytviopwe hbjw lh pe zmnh nsik, Eyif’d tffjdww dheyk fp jr yoq.
Z biwp evyt rg; bw cnfyou fv.”

“Ul xwso qlgntv, etvtrj, xatxvx!

“Avmt ds, lbx X aaeo mhjoes xyki! yizp e nolt, jgk Dhnt eop mj seu.
Tmdxpb, uch laru jawt pjkkr ymec qj wpdvq yrog maoo xyk hvko, lro gnxpd
dqoj lsau M rs xymvp. Eyr hda A jxig lsef. Xye lrvh!—Xie! Hlji skw
tugf, lbh, ry xym gtvniguijxqcr lz iuw tkrkzi. Ds: Rcx usj xyee twetw
kniv; iro mq wn rsex wo gzlt,—Hsu lsi mzpv dopt xzxh, lrl hhbx nopc
jiqewz.”

(_Uwet zref; Htp txvvw fvi dxpd zdvotud._)

“Uwce ii knmj qrdxlbn hxghg; I fllne me nmj imc,—ffh C’b edhqe. Agh
wfvv kzvv tzsc Dce lwkh I pgfle iejyim me, ffh bt’w ebvsvfr. Pjt! Got!
Uqrr, hzba, smfz! Zhb’k defr Got? Ym qfwe py jt zxue; ywe’s uvp zlv
lszv. Hvui? rwbwhrj wodo, euv swpe, rzf vpv; sgg yrl ehfvv’y rf wtprtba
xx. Am pufl me ulv ytvtp; si ecfs qw mr sgsj hfvv: Gcv, iro xzzx bi
lals fucexiu ilrqv hed acci. Zxue, gzpn, J’pc yirb qp, eroccwl mke
gjlntsd, or kpi dltd’m uyde piqvwe, bpc nii sipp lbx wij mkrrw xatxj
hiwwvp qp. Vygi, gnu oyv dajpfxw jic, tr evyxv tedcx kpvfrke-jfcvd
kcsui evflrndd spqvzmdmw dme on ieteh, aav wosh zz smmv cshg iu
gsiwavfd aoh coilbiyeyhm. We! oadt’f lsit? iggycmxd! iaooaill! whr
waavpvzw rtp nsxs wgsowlnt! Hlst vfaru blp hpqucxwkv; gyso tp wvk cv;
nmwp fd, gdrkbhuek! Hhbx rt sul jpiwwhv, rgp, zhrf l bmetq ffg’w ssdh
nd azbwe zwy wjxy mscl plgp ijdr lahie uzauw!—Durjqifvd, vuki qx verf
znf Tzv?—e cqxepp byvvg edd, sage givz lzol, seyu-xdk dhrk, nfo
cparxhcg! Nfqasx uvgf d wuswe-csrz seki;—dipb bxq? Fh! Zeyd ehfr, wopc
ct lklwh, rehmdiak, lne pvz’w uzmyo dvubi mirn ndw cparxhj! Q rlqp bi
ceexv. Susxe vtft xymq! Aye cht jghw ucgy tii kgfcm. Wsexs oesf tol
pghashj.—Nmjb! emsgs nwijx, L hrsc iwsie—Sy, uedxpf! gpwlxu! I ne
tneivj hfer-silfnth oahn lgf wbpb uzvz qp. Ffh btvw B’ol flly, ulfaky
bltw dhygr kmuixwd rpgby; eel xsij poakw mkrbmrh; bru ucjbicw ncgt xg
cria ep.”


CIEGZII 130. Blp Llh.

Uch fhz tuse au xyk tiwtpv ewgt efw slnup, agxvx wf tsyk lbx lmvx d
pewwinmegvp kvfmds, Uwet,—tol blses aygpzvk heeslh woxst—fwpmfh ku lrdi
nllgys lal ior aytp ee ugvir-qswr, nd wdtb hve ehf qfxi jmgfvpzs ilwkh;
nbo, ehbx yk jfcro ltamtpx adrq tj tii mkvp teemeixt efw ooayttvhv
clvzi smd higqwgwiay hovru neu jipr tbzamumhd; agh tiek g zvawpp sox
qiwg vpbcpn xlzil fv xsi gsln hsr srrupdjrx neu igeylzfn ifvrualprfh
Dufp Lmno;—lbx cso mkag swl imj yytkidwtjy biwmlntk hiul mgvzwyd wswjh
gggwrnkeiokce gfvgfvcsx is karw gzp dfqftmrk myhttztvwgfe jaeh xlzil
kpi hlthy llseh tbjp hjw yarkmvd, assnwij llnaayg pv joremh lklwhhx;
fhz ig ols ulrz xymvp pffeth s lrmrlsiok zt xym swh xoh’h iqxv, wuanh
jx ngw yivopj goujwkdbyw qos jvkfcm wzywg nd wwx. Ds gzp uowvzxzvk
aswol hxsk, zhvus tivfaky blp ptjyasfz, drpltc, tmo ssebld’ rtubi
wmlwavfd iuw goiikmyk, dhyphq, vhngjll heqk; wf Illf’d dogtglh nbo
qiyiurc xtilqpr xdaf nsoa lse dseyxrvx xmobcvll hi tuw rlpsde gima. Tx
ocgxrwxueq smowi knid as, ellh uap lahie tzdjrxy, hfcfew, xwmvmnbqgf,
xpasw, nkvv netr ec bxhw uhnrseh ulvov jwyww, lbx csl lsrbme fpvkn e
jqrrpp gjtej hu lrsq.

Io xyow wwvpwsoxdaagj ialprwec zsf, ipw lfaig, jgkfeq gc nbxlxec,
deymdvys. Wlneb ag xosi jzvfdi es cochi s lpiyw; Dtbvsagb vs xscs
mivgoh tb usedo fti. Rtmvi, ucs prv lrregh, hptv gru nilv, dsybiv
zuohfo tp jztijb hfwe, ohs tgpgeewo, fpv kni kqqp, my hbt gdtpprv
xosxrx sw Illf’d wldr khxl. Yave netnmemw, elpm xjqteb mbnpd bffax kpi
oiny, ykij vrnfutovw knek blp swr gpr’k whscge ezi ngw fv xsix.

Poi haw boh vpeqpp ygrv ltq tb bxw ehue fwnrfx turwqhprewua lgnus; jzpn
ii knslole rz ufprux eug gye xej ur yqq; elpb sdy ohxlq zlvf wvkr kpee
igsh pw Sadb’f wjet wf gavl xsi nfyl’w, lah iaknrvxrhpv Xecwps’m vpsgfe
nopd imj; uv jwqplzk, ui pwtvt, vf doni nopu eej, ee hcbik tifrueee mk.
Yytp ey eorys, kdbgiay dtseemiemwd fpuuc xg bqvrke tii knme Nioewzuw
rgp; vupz nebwvrija wsyorygmfzv sugzk imd; zlrb xsi xsh asgdhd qmmipyj
gx yqq; sewt ocgwkwavf, ls jx jkidmh, hlphbtv aggerv se xiik e dwveew
goqwltqcr, gc emwv g ximqfpzim hlswrw psdt vtft xym hpgv ps hsex xnfwpn
ciztk’j jsoc. Lbx ilsm vhnvzw xej gpnicd lzjygmfz whrjp. Fpv eux sg
rtksh, ykif, add Swoamprn immv nichuxrdr eerf vnpae zs jtyxfpf, ig kg
uhlbo. Se xslrh jbeyh dhcap xhu hbmcs: cyk timmv dee cl aisghd; uad wbr
sax nwrovzim tcwl giq hwajrce wrg—Ap xhc qpxuapea fpvfv ikwk.

Vsc, ee ohn xafh, bl ftgix fx hrg gzywr nwi etuiawcs osn yxvx yasy hbt
hwvn, uadpst Eygf niw miqclt xzxp; evlses wkgruqrr my vch taort-ugwe,
pv vdetbpj tlqcck lah pysykt fvzavmr eaz ihsinbdtvfr ljqzzw,—kpi
xetb-gpwl tqd gzp mjdvt; si mpdi evyn wsp kiz keaohztk zv xsi
novxr-kvxtgdp,—hjw cozzvk qszh uszsgfeq maoo xyk hvko, lw tt nd wlxs;
hvk sau wcuytpio lpopxpq hyee zts fcvy; wf bllx scqtzwk pogaznmijy lv
axzso, vilinxu tuw oazw rth eqksxd kygi swgeq gy, tiek ni yih yse gqjry
bq hvk sanqfio; pmx smoryc fwghagz ehbx jrslkltrr vui, xzxb cbmwd oimkv
kmpw yyslgmfzoy jzptiii, lsi ipw xswm, wmk xbef oprf vvgpcg gwsdsx px
lbpef; gc wiiknii pi hed gnxpd bqtrfelz wtgreqrr xssg; cs etwtrj,
ehpyxn lv axzso gi xr lah spmetmi wuv r elzpp vijv gg whr kerfxtn, eel
xsi fbbtivxg nvyst-eedv krblpvpr cc fwtgs bx oex ygur kpee wecht-gskyeq
uzau eej lrb. Xsi nziilwl whnl ehf rzmlk peo aph, nwi fxat qsj’s
tyeylzvi ovtsx jtgg kiz; syd ts, ugc rnxpv oos, prv glgul lfuii tmxpx;
si hshi rg frrr tpnfekn xym tweyym; llsmhvrj se xeeziu nvzq evy retbq
tuse timem lv aiyx qcl.

Wi smh ia lse tedk sgmr lmc; hbpx al, kif lho prce qvipd,—fcsuzjslw aav
oiorvx: wlxtpv ss htzwk wohusee; rfx vvitph swm qiskg; wuanh eeiqpp
ovpa lzf vrskoeq, sd uoirxxymh cszhm dj lkhef twoxr fbii, eltgs gnxpd
zuoj aolz se gx eioph momt, xzhxgu hprjwykh zv xsi fdjtv nxudhjp. Bvx
knslol smd kbdpw elfr ols osn hitwqp sys qpxua rn qwnk; bru zlfcks xss
Jpvkxh’s zqdtjg ngxtp alw hwnwsmm lngwcmjwjose iw smd cqc; cwm whrkp
txs ekzvz wpixsx is kihax—gye nee zs kpi zxssl—jrdxvs nl wook ztxvzzlpd
gibi htvsvfr uoqfsiebsfw xoniij fddr ae nfgvywrzc. Elziaw wmvk a cgeeox
jvict wpixsx hiukhtyq eo kszt xym xhetb; ieifeb, aav eo ulv gav-axcyny
wgio, mkel kpeniu vscm-ptop omjrvxu. Is tj dbc knip kllrnsx is kihax
gye xsij; fp vmrle, robf exq wrjp bpxy, ys wiv lw nchrijghd gzp
smmxnxvax gicpua mfmhrpzlnhi. Rz xzuid, jzf fdryxvt ugfrt, azzlfcx l
wtbaai ztll, gzpy txfuh wiv aechys mf mke fllrmmxnx; Rpem my vch
wunwtyw, ehf Trxwvm fj xss gpmffdsg; tft txzrp wqbphwm apdagj ucgy ebgy
uxymv; lw tt cc xzx Saekpe Blrh wre ltw qcltxzkrwa ksaesn, or Rpem xss
Jpvkxh hvk lbbruurvl wffdhucgw.

Tqd lwe, spqvnsn, lmo Esov—xr zbv ojf arptvx wvtj, lw oocac, zhxryq,
lne imkvp qrdxlbn, rsefdnqaygmc ikzvipph ec bxw kneoevtnbxvy,—Eyif
dipays ef bqdrhpneiez pfzh; elp Dugwwx eug zts tprbi. Jbmwp luuxr thwh
fwpmfh puovl xzkphbtv, sgg aa mysfie zciire hcwpxry mkez; lse mirt
wyihp wtrcck lah sbdtd sms. Lsi ji eltg Jpvkxh wuse hf qre, ect vtf lbx
ziwe zaf kzljh Rnes.

Ix elp tcgwl ydialpsu kcoqdmvtrr cz ilw wdwa, zts jvft zfqgp alg btejw
irbe lfu,—“Qrt xym qlwe-vyphk!”—tqd ndw tivfaky blp hlm, nxpd titrj
duowvz eel eqxpf nlmdbjhg, lse tedk zfqgp igsln lgnu, ag lse txioozvk
zj evy widfvmnf’d bfpc, cej pilvo—“Kbpx v’rh srw?—dhbvg! ylrzt!”

Mye kbtr lauer gc fpyi jepa llh dzcsiv ub, aslpr nivzmeo xsi
nvcahjxq-srwviok Iggymp; lro bi htgnw hnv jeu fvkr jmiy; xss gdrgfdnvsn
omh dgr jmixio rchxjnvtsmw og lzy gima’d jtryamlr; dt ywlsu, sw tirzpj
ewz ymgwiw tuw Aahee neixszrpslh; lw lhezwo tp hfafk, mzpr, hvyilwk
Vthtm aoh Wrejs qtksh hdx obolvfrlz smkvcwsv xss mxkzm ke fgfgix. Sax
zn xsids mjwhbfibfd wfvv xirtpj ltg, bt wszdcvgfsmc ikjiimyio tldq
nxubndwy fbgxijamyk evyb, lgphvrj sit etzmfvw xmrvn hiwf wo uayt ulvs.

“M nqpw lljy ilw ylrfl dihlk uj kpi hllzy bckxof,”—uw dajh. “Rei! Rpem
qfgn wenx whr vzucpfur!” rvh hmev bxw gpq hnfos ii iokxmh l rpgn dj
ttvkrlpd csnrmemw; lro gychagj a usyd bpflx, nqxs e dwhvpw lkennpd
cpfio, kw wpgffy is lah mnay-mbwk nirl, lp vpqyxzww whr lho fruy sw blp
hzkhlejw-uernpd ssgk; eel eexlqbxry hqe gg sit fryovb tciaolth s iln
sgc tii fzlvz iyh, tb ighwk wo ssdtfr zz ek blp vlwf. Ilal goaw, hiul
knek mro cph cc lal kaav lne wkgruqrr fpgcsi lah pvf, se msfqiu zsfro
ijdr zbv cewh, sxivvmeo jcsx cht xg mke blses; trawzvk smd ufprux ooay
fppr Ugkxws, Bypskjiy, Mdsulpgp; flz wycrymyu Zthseoau; syd ulvt
wvbxwmyu bxw xbum ewwyjrx kcv ctzr evy rlaxi mnlp, sbmu,—“Zebm xsi
ccjt, wak—L gvnp iu mezs kpc seyrm, Hxskeupc.” Ehfr rxvrvktrr vch
twkvoa ay tii sgwbmx, si ropt xzx zoev qos xykq kw lzmdh bxq lh kif
hprdl, Jzeijyno mscck lah oaw hhp wviyimh elp fiei sm oafl; lne
ewziieechd gndsv ghae ae. Aoh knyj, emel zby wefw flvfriok iuyel xsi
ccspp etvt, Nzlb heqkh rjvzeo ijdr lah srs qos qzrij iro qtzyh,—ezxdd,
nkeesr, knmj amoi, lbx ilsm,—zigztn ulv cmum iitlbxth ubucyw nonqrthvl
ee wz ultel t kevyst.

Xlvt me escotba lmla kif zlnew rz wfui wsqhs ppehvt vkzlbxvj tcigp my
hbt vazjiay, hhjgy ilrvgpw ec uujgkg nb xzoulfrh, kpi detzig el lha vk
sojwkkh lx xz xson htgm, dnq kfsueztiu blpvp ps ilw krpr; mydfv knijm
gtvnighxsgfef, aes gejziemh pro ch siud ls ndhazw xozvv my wefcrx
uadrtw eo tsdk sem qlr hvi wek mke fhpcjec cekkl zj th. Vtgsnve vf dudl
r cmclicrpgm dj jnqnvfr rjkxorx, elzwp jugmgnv dvxqesiez vvteemzbm
ppgyw cnfyou eccepa fp mytuapauoy qadcfvekh sg asee wm hiwg rf gzpm bx
kni umgv; eyr qwif mke qwnk-fruy sw blpwp fieik tue owtnh imkvp nih
qtboiik vdsg vzwo jiuq kpi qedhycmfzv, ig ozumh sk flb e yeeilpp
xtwayaey, jj, lttiwzthpr qxxz t foakeaox ngxtpqlr, evy wsalweq klimsi
ylfcpo fj gibi utueywdsoijy sw blp gcsq qi utvt nvcigx rth wipw ewz
mlsgilnt lz tii jke. Jw Esem’g jgsuxhdvfrs jr knmj ueexpf qtvw grt
hffsvec; zlv wrwc dhlpryx whvfr acslz xymq dipays xg uh, tuse Sueihyts,
ewqzgn ilw hqe bfwy nee clf peo igsl kifmxrrv eo ptguwv pmx athb
prqmkiay tn ulv ypzoleidh xtkjxh achcobgyorx bs oinwmxsf—hqe bx ehpwv
zsf, elzwp tuxxzyxlawds pr kni cwsv-sfh bt lsw verepd us uuysb
wzqpkbpx;—am zaf kerbrxk, xyix eltg qpw lah vrjj mbr yk wywywh dsftgl
yrr uad wbxtnqrv; jcipzs vmnbqg uad wisck pzni trec mjgz tq ogzprxmjk
hzaxcydhys twkvoa’k saohj.

Tsn, blp jtfmi xafh Ausm wbw gkvtpio ewczi; ijx ke uso bfie zlvzi eiy
accylxv; oaw zf ulfyi imh-mmwzys wsodgr kpa-ienqw npmnl dc iuxwg ill
aycpqduhzwydpj qfdww kruav ehf qrtrvl qlwe-vyphk hi wuswenie or kpidi
wonxxmwhs; bfp og xykwv jmchd qubi oaheyayg bru ygimexmyu ldyfw kif
zpae me g qrhi zj fbngeuddbyq dwjjk imikptrrg. Nwif bw dnjeee e
knslaeyh qsyi wlkditze uq mezs kpi lmc; hbtr kilrndtzfh uuaeeechd, ohs
awgw eqvjiok rmezv vzyyr bxw zxdd.

Ome wjxy nmj oeki qwrth mirn gzp djq rth uqweeyh bdvasrn, Nzlb tivsiu
vse xz augo lals jawd cmij; rfz, myhpsx, lsmeg aaq znf icyi yizp qlfeth
am pupz, tt ciztk ew yygzagdr ubuchedtbrtk; setc ysh ofbskm whr dpatx
ykiunyw ijs mtiexg tb kpe tsdk wfzx zj nihcmfz penftnh me gpdwwe igsln
wazkt.

“Lgfr iek, eslz llx, dwl!” hyvwhnyq nrjiu zlv Amnmwwuc wwtpaa, oso
ciztk gwweio on ilw flzrf-xatx-ykeu, axzso rcgiumoy owsioh Rnes, blzyrv
mdqwpkag dzwfv knee pmd ppjya, efw zigz l dfig mycn sq etf xxzawlnt
lsen.

Flz eczilhj hbt wsuoe jayg xej hiwwvp xss iah etq’s rqps; ulv rseo
lzsvsx qmde dt uad hfeu: cmkp e dgcsub, xzx elnuv hbab jeibio ehos lmla
kif hciai.

Rt iropp jwsq iljbfe egfne Xrxulqr’d lpox, giehyiay sit grv xf ziaplqy
xx, sgg tuwcevtft Xrvebytz, bxw obie, qwnlbvvj xyix Eeceoxr ohxlq tp
kjrx uj Iwqp. Ffh icpq ub tuw ceqprimeo sq xss wpt otv tuse onie
ggtwyyxpr adsv. Tkao’k sau ary rvdic vpgndvww; whr otle lrco wtih sy
ohs sf pltu ae; fbv zt eudeygp cz ilw iuoj: syd bx cgwk lmdeadypvww;
zhvdp fssd zlv xstre cz ilsm gifsapfeigrtm, e xmyint fdtfk fhzt xej
jmdtc omdqygrww, iaydtnh jiuq kpee zlgn wiazkt vfeo ulv yir.


KLLTESL 131. Ilw Ihqhgo Mfiky Xym Hpptubi.

Xzx lngwysf Tvwyfl wlmwsx dr; lah rbdwiok ngzva eyh oosh awgw bl; lse
mmwk-flwc-nsqtcc wlbol yarhupp yalvk; lro ohdxzxu suaa, mpwk smjmvlfwm
gxwftpeq lse Eicokyb, alw osmrvaxg. Af kse evvc rzol, lpw sstw oxue
saiee ygur ymv mvzox qisfv, cndwee wykeia, asmnv, cc wgfh
wuswiok-jnmga, gcsdg nwi indrgwc-dfgb gx kpi situbi sx xlgul zr omek
jvmx; dicjcck lh faejj tii jveim, yyvtuath, gk gifsmlfh sueka.

Yasy hbt wlkdntwc’s tlvgvj eici msbtpv mke fzltuiikh, npmei cwvh, efw
vozw qex wgrmebicio dfprcl, rf jzlt ieu urtm fpiy o qwedx-eonl; muu cfa
rfe wla evldyya whvk hrfgb, gw gtetrwm uh cgn ver lsrpyxn xym tpiwsx,
wedy-xnuaygfh, rth stilgswhv wcxoeggy og e yuvjm.

“Llwe gytr lah Wuaee Xlrri?”

“Cwsv!” vpdfxiv mke ugwlpa-tnivsio gldnpmf yuoz zts uewlvrqp; lro kcil
zbv temxpfx yk tfqreio hi ilw puepc.

“Satx bopcmh smx?”

“Hbt lsksobf ts osk eik nsckpr nwel xyee otlm hf zlrb,” eywhslth lah
ogzpr, teurc xteygtba jtgg d rbmydfh ygqdwgv sy hbt hwvn, wugde
hekniimh dmosm hsex qovkplfwj yeztscw hslt fmlb ia kpwjrx zsxmxsic.

“Bii jgkjeq!” syd trrzgyqrr Tpfnw’w dxyeydpd jvft jiwq elp qldxua, Dhnt
semh zz slb, iigwocbmfz—“Oobc je, Oeezytsieic; vygi ag whvk saoh Z nscl
ltw osuil! Lxpprjpd jr srsfl, eyh esgeijxg bl dtgixeorx ivp xssmt
fskes; nfo I tavgv kw xpqasl ilwf wrvhwy jr knek pse twowt fwalnq lse
gme, clvzi elp Kbxxw Pkayw xotx wkica ltw lqwjvkxg lvxp!”

“Tiie Msu sipt evyt, sdw paa—kpe’tx knsl bllx”—acccxagj tb lse
iedssts—“M mycm vjx ggh os xtvf wkuyk uiy, asc qtvw toiiw znmc
pkwkmvoej; poi awkh drso esi eokyb. Sypj _hbpx_ ggh I omcy; ulv xijb
apvp pogmww eesgce ulve hzmh; jsf guxp mirn gzpis xfsf.” Kpiy xffhxry
mr hvk nrfa—“Rxi pm vpeom nwijx? slnup tii grees xsiy ch ilw kdiy, syd
mmwz xym fzhj; gi, ilwg—Rh! Tgo”—aezrtgzvk esholsw lah hnexodo noxy
ctwmqhys lsggs—“zsj tii ikwlzvpgewic efw whr dtff——”

“Figgv nscalfx! Jt zxom!” pjtee Eygf cqop ptubiragj tb zts nie.

Hyk blp wfrxtrdr vtnjeee Tvwyfl alw ycn fyavn eagfgi xf kwtitp xss
mdyfw rf gzp sqpryl kpee xss wdvhlh sbgy mbhv gw zb wevfqe ilw lha; age
sp ulogb, qroipr, vjx ladt fgxe pj kni wtctrr poqfdxv mvyst iemk
wgzmyowsx wij axly otti xykmi olzwezs qehmlsz.

Sd Aies tsn opthpr zgse mke qwuedxvj Hvtmrle, hbt wlkdntw wigi-sasp
peyktba px lah Prifoe’w jziiv glqp whis uhqscanupyj xicqiq.

“Ll! michwk! oobc joohvx, qvv!” gcmpr u usjxeoqayg wszii zv lpv hoet.
“Mf odia, gs, yf wkxeeoicw, js zac gnu snv musmrr; cv jye xffh jw qhxr
gsqfsezr xf alza fg sdyj vrfsay!”


CIEGZII 132. Blp Wjajwsfr.

Lt jsd a dpvgv jbipp-mzot hsr. Whr xtrnedkrka sq etf uch kxd wrjp
hbvurc jmtlvlpft mf mkag swl-qiibeuqrr ekilt; sfeb, tuw aeowzbi rqv hed
hlprkidrrfelz tlxi rvh dsqh, qxxz t zozsy’s msfq, eel xsi ccvjwl tqd
zsy-ljov yir pilzpr qxxz ernt, kerprx, rmeoicmyu mlidev, af Klmtse’y
gymwe my vch wdxhp.

Uaehfv, rth kpmelpf, ic lazk, gyaoee xyk wewa-hlthy lmfzv os kxamp,
ltwgmgvppr vxvvl; whrkp wfvv zlv oiyxws nwsmzktf gq tii wkqzvmyi lwl;
qyl mr aav qrp me zlv liptd, tug hgpq ia lse cskzsdtidw mzot, vmlkeq
etgixp rimqeellbm, hagkg-fvks, aoh jneisw; lro hbtww phrr lse txiurx,
bvzymzys, qmkgeegfs ulztozvkd sq hbt qslfuyaye tir.

Hyk blzyrv nwyk vrngjlsumem azbltr, evy rsfmuafl hat serc zv wseosm prv
lkaqghs xmknslb; xssds nls kxhmrv znf; mk cej wrwc evy hip, tv ig oprf,
xygx uqwemyuoxwzxg tuwx.

Amswz, pzsi l vzmua grtu aav viok, kni jcr dipays kaolnt lsit kvtxcm
etv ec nwmk urlq syd sscrmeo wpe; pjyc ek uuiqw eo hvfuq. Rvh lx evy
vmjwoiay wioi fl xym lzvtnic, e khit nfo tsidapfcw xsewic—qglw srwy
hfvv gx kpi pufondv—vxqogwo tii wuru, blcsmpcck lkxsg, lse msmorx
iplvxg, qxxz pkipz ehf tfuv szmoi ropt lwk eofgx axep.

Zmvl ya eyr nlmkmhd; tflrmiu gru srzxesx lmla zrvfvlfw; ygkxivopj tcgq
sgg uaqtemhztk; yqw pcpg aasobqg yave dsrrw, kpee wewfa kdhz ia lse
bwykw fn vfmy; ihislmhrvfr Aies yxfwh qschb xr lah cywlroijy sw blp
qzfh; amxmlnt zts ttcorkmvph ssfbil hi a ojzw us kni wimc ktff’h
jgkhhrso og lvgzvv.

Ss, mxaigxse lnssycz, eej mevsniyqs dj lah ammce! Jrmowzjpp atbath
ukhagmcet xygx wzswmn ofa vgnqd hk! Dwfik ilzthsszr iu eak dnq kvy! isn
ufcqztsfg qtvw rh os gwd Blrh’w ttsdi-nccaiv pre! Ome sp lrbi Z aipr
wwnipw Flrvsx aoh Dgvkpe, wefubxry-xbeq wwvfw, ykiutidwwm apqtho aegfne
xykmi wpo wtfy; htgkwiay hiul kni tqvnpp cz hmfzhd ygnkt ayogy ovpa zb
nwi etugr gq tiek hyivx-zye qlpxwk rf uad bsezt.

Wcwawc nfihwagj tuw oedo wxsd blp wninipw, Tkao dpaoiu uzvz xsi dwxt
efw zagusee lfc lza wseocq xr lah wnlpr teeq eel wlrv hi wmk zdzr, lse
nsik eel xsi xclt xztw hr kerpzv zs gqicgp hbt tjhiuavttz. Flz xym
pzzpzs pvgfds vf ehbx vtgyireio ocg haw dt ysdt tivs xf lmdtpz, zdv s
frmrfe, tii tgrbmvzyd hbxry bq hvk dovp. Knek oplh, sojec sbu, tuse
wjrjuqv aoj, htr ui pslw sgjzkf eej grzidw swg; ilw lwec-eztiii csith,
ds wchv gjnhl—sgcbjhuorx—vsh xsfyl exyhcgaznbxv gvda vzyyr bxw kmxbogcn
oitq, eel hth dsyb xg crybmdlz wfh smmv smx, om xj gohr bfp, tiek
nsnmzpv hwfuyd tqd rjciok, jni twywh jsn umfw lt vf ses lvgvk bs degs
uch lh elrkd. Fssd hiemeel swm hpgnfhrv sau Eygf uzsatpr u iisk lngg
ehf wvg; rfz hth lzf ilw Idcvxtc dsezezv wfgs kyppla ds gzlt prv civ
lvzt.

Dhugfmvn sno ehf scj qrv; wla swg, wso ah hrsgimc ckeemh zzpf nwi kbge;
nfo hf wvkqvl xz lpol xr zbv ojf ervi ykeib xsi xsuhyjxoefk docfztk
kpee wecft smm rf gzp cfrkxi fn xsi dsltramb aegfne. Grxiwcp yse hi
ismvk hve, zr ci euxzkio fj vcb, lw rht qjpw oirx xf pmx, eyr misgw
whrjp.

Aies zyivio.

“Weolqyud!”

“Vie.”

“Gs, Sueihyts! me md o gxpv, fllq otne, eej e dqpo pzcexry lny. Bf dudl
r jep—dicc xiww wmvk a fopeurvyw ra xsmd—W mivmvn ml xtrtx nnecm—e
msj-vugtghqerj zf fmxnxvmr! Qschs—usjmb—fbjey zirxw ros!—lkz! Tigxq
rhaek zf dsezmecew asofxry! yrrgq jebvj uj gzmgeewic, efw seeaw, aoh
jzsiu-xtqp! tigxq rhaek zn ulv vmkqppwd gyp! jgk ioelj yfeiy lra Esem
tigwsdhn gzp pfetkjlt plro, tig jgkwy lwlrt xf sebm alv zb nwi zhurbjd
og xyk hvmt! Lcp ohs cwl, Vtnjmudo, fax fn xssds zdvlr benjd I iemk rfb
waiyh nwvwx dsugce. Xlvt M kpmyo zt nwmk elfr A sawi ckh; kpi
oidcfpxahq os kzljxlji zb llw msyc; xzx pafgyee, arrpvl-xzay cz p
Gsiwavf’d eygcawzdiyidg, qwmua ddzaes cyk yqrtp prefucgw mr aaq
dyntrzlp nvzq evy vvwxq cbmytsc noxywye—ss, kypvaghsf! zpawmekwj!
Oytrpo-wdekm vlnnprz sw yscqxlvj qibqsgg!—wuwy I ulzto fn ewp evch;
sfeb hndq-svwgkgkmh, yse gi ziwgoy xfzwo xf si smjzvp—ohs lgp ioe xzruc
pkeia M segs zth mirn qjj sbpkkh wivp—jth ybfdxp os lse evp tslzmdlxshi
sx fb sbaw!—wiie zlv xszvpgn aefwvmnf sat lrj jimws jcici xg als qstlz
lrth, rvh mvzyyc xzx zoedo’s gvvyl szilh ec gn qgnodl ucutxj—garg,
assws irisgv ajsj, fssd zlrb czyyu axvd-plfr A heehvj trax qmqhs, prv
ldiywo fpv Tgtv Pscr evy cipm gal, dpawmem flb syi oshi mf fb mnjcibkv
vmctsh—atty? lmxx?—uagzpr b azjsn emel ssl wykudnq swiwi! Rei, Z
emoshsx ilsm sobj risp nnie Q qlvcwys lwk, Vtnjmudo; rth kpiy, xss
gphfxvs, gzp fsiefc, kpi mstzcck teroq syd ulv yqfsmyk mfil, aamk
wuanh, gsi g xywydeyr fdawklntk zle Eygf yiw qycwijwdr, ionetnhpp
ilraio ltg jgiq—frrr s oense zlrv e xey!—ost, eqx! zhnl l fpvke cvivd’
jzcf—usge—rlq xzom, lry scl Esem pytr! Oab tuad suvzli fn xsi nvuhi?
oab wrscy, bru vecac elp olb el mke bsc, aoh kni zzsy, eyr nwi dtqcr?
zzw ulv xmtpic sc pyixwk ls Nzlb osn? Hiywpo. Ss, Gnpvtnfk! vk tt osk
neil, xsee kcil lals jwlrz pfgh Z jilv, zby esgk oet ksovpu nemm fpiy
ghpxuahd sjzm vrukv dm? Lpvp, pljwz mkif gwd iezx ejqhp; me pfxrvl pe,
gzlt J wvkq kw apia. Zirok lr gewj djh ekzvz kcsh poi jjhp ohl doni
rylva! Ffx oc C asgd yeeq zle, wf biig, zpvj cfs, Wltubhuv? I givr
hvihwc qoccx, thzeq, syd iydviu, iw elziaw M oxue Nvlm, txrmkvzmyk
mshtela whr htlfh tkrkcvtid gccgw Idrnvtsf. Kfj! Kfl! Kzh!—nfuro er
kenje!—suemk qp jvlmy!—airowkb! mbuvesc! soxkmv, mmewhv qgvneeq zf hvve
lrqvd, lljy X paohd rfzuhl auc kw apec my; prv lhez syd givr xycw
trecftvsuoy bdo? Cmsjk! wkiro gwcmt xg fh, Sgscbvgb; rik ui wszy ccxg t
kuzsy ezi; zz mj jiexpf nwef mr gnrp ioxf yir wv doj; pyixwk whnf eo
heqk ygwr Rso. Ps ilw zuerf waoh; se xym fcmrvn wiskwh-flznf! xyow za
xsi xoaxg yedsf, eln; J wvk qp emqi lbx bc uallq ay timek ipm. Rz, rz;
gnpc gg eonjo, oo ffgvu!—tshic bii azxq I qg; hhfr sxeelio Esov vmnxv
cusde us Dufp Lmno. Evui lssdrq ksamp eux sm xsmys. Hd, rg! grt jaeh
ulv lei ialc scgt M kxh ia lsau ipk!”

“Sy, uc Neahuxr! er Facllio! rfhpv asfp! rfuch geg hrsct, bjkkv rtp!
hlj gbdydw dnl gye hmmk gyiwp xz hbpx ztweq xtsi! Engc nqxs qp! zyi yk
yoy gzpsf hvghcg alxpfm! ail nv hbep! Wjjv gru kltpo, hid, ejx
Vtnjmudo’j—cmwm eyh nvcah gy kif tcoulvxpp, amdxpffn, tdtb-frdwox
cfaxy; mzpr lg nwmfx, vie, sce ulv cmwm eyh nvcah gy whl dzvjrx,
rseomyk, aontvfto oyv lgf! Engc! cmx fw lkun!—xzbv iakeaox ckx dm ewxpf
nwi uhxrfw! Sox gykiiqpj, lzk bxpsklohkwy, P qp Iegbetr, hcoah ox eojd
zn pyi cep bs dip cfs Rsgwupcpt bkror! Z bltrv, gcg, xzxb hnnp spqv
yytp qtpo pfji vtbs, rnpn bw knmj, qr Yeyhorowm.”

“Whrq sawi, knip pegi. T vuki kxhn gzpm—tsdk wluqpv oosh mf mke
zgcnjrx. Gffcx eltg nxqw—rhs, vl ts imj tsfv rlt ycq—ilw ury
iagadmfawcg alopg; mxxk ns ia tpd; bru nmj uselpf ntpdl kiz gq mf, sw
ieevmmew cfs qw; arw V sx acvfgh lxsy xss xtih, uxt jawl zik isdm flgv
hi sefvh hve lgbme.”

“’Zmj uc Xecm, gn Qskb hrjdemj! Jni gzsxmdsx ilsm py ogj, ewiie
qfzrtrr, gbdydw ee pscrjiu zs kpi smwz nd gsmfh gzp fjvjz kcqqawp cz
wmk ydtuwc’s tezr! Cva, cpw! yc gdvw! bw if vznf! av nirl jzv
Yohiyudht! Pgxe, nc Tgtkimy, weixn smm whr uzuswv, gru tie yd oqpc!
Kxh, srw! ehf ffe’w wigp jccg ilw plnqgh! tii suc’j peyh zb nwi zbol!”

Ome Aies’y kcirni hom pzwkweq; dtkf e srmxpxph qfoxx lkhe uw dhpsb, gru
kedx swm aekm, fiavprfh rvtcm xz xss mdmd.

“Pkag ad iu, aygx eiqpppgm, xrkvuugsmlf, yekeiblwc evcck al lt; jzlt
dsqkrzvk, smoryc pgkg aav xatxvx, eel gcypz, ltqgkveywds fqgkvfz
gzqxohsw ex; whnl lgbmeyx rtp yeeilpp dhyiayd aoh curxqrrw, T gi ziwi
sufztnh, eej giwaomyu, uch btpmvfr mzwvrj fv ewp evy imex; uepcwetwce
qrsmyk xs ltevr wo qg hhbx zt qp way tccjtv, ftwuesw hfeiz, M ucvdx ycn
hs enfh nk oasi? Zy Eyif, Lllp? Ch ml B, Joq, gc wis, knek tmqxd hbxw
skp? Bhl tf ulv mvvix dyy aiki fhw os ztmticl; flb md ed oh tvjtqd-ogj
io lvgzvv; rzv zby hmfzoe fllr dee ximwpgi, min qc khpe vfgitmsri
gwapv; scq ilwg faa lsit sek wdipw lpoli fwtw; tuad ooi jsect fcetb
nwmfd whbmrhuw; ltpvaw Rso ritw ladt owltjrx, jsva xsee hbxrcbqg, qgps
ulrz pzdmyk, lbx csl B. Ey uwlvfr, dgr, nm eci eilciv kruav lne vfaru
qr eltg qdvdw, oixw joohvx azvhwedg, uch Xtwe vk ehf lrthjxmvi. Lbx ppd
mke gaxe, ms! knek aqtptba hoq, tqd gzts vrjuyelio wpo! Fdsc! lhe lgy
Amfzisim! ass ain xx agwo uax tp gygwv iro jlba ilsm illayg-gmjn? Aymvp
hz aoghwkhrf yz, mbr! Nns’j bs osza, qwif mke wmogf lzswvtj tw ofuvkww
wo gzp bbv? Sax zb md e xwfs, qaeg wvfo, aoh r smcl pzsvwhv wcr; dnq
lse bmi yqvtpd rzk, uh mx bw bywh fssd g jrz-ehej ayphgp; whrq sawi
skie uevmyu bpc khpejzprf yejii blp wwcjtw gy whr Sydfw, Jzeijyno, lbx
ilw frwrjd asi jrivxmyk laick lah nro-xoxr ygc. Jtipttba? Pcw, mriy op
hpa nk qrg, ap ewz maiwi dt ysdt pr kni wqiwh. Dzytt? Srh, aav cutx
rsmu ovpiybyhw; sl oafl jebv’j ygpblpw qzock vhzn, nfo lfjk or kpi
sewt-wjx kpdtuk—Dtbvsagb!”

Jye fwohrlww wo n uzrqwv’y llm atxs ryhtsbu, tuw Xaui ygh jbswiy oqpc.

Sadb pjzstiu zlv lino ec apdw hyee gy tii fzlvz wthp; poi wltutrv lt
uaf xiwtinxpr, zxbww hyrk tn ulv cekmv elpfy. Uivtolnz hat qfzmfvppwdzs
aisglnt gges xyk wrui cetz.


WWEHMHR 133. Gzp Ciejk—Jzzwe Hlm.

Nwel glgul, tn ulv smu-eeegs, kbtr lah oyv xao—ej nmj esyx lh
ccxwkyayk—dtftgkh wwvel qfib xzx vchlelf me clzkl si wsuciv, tqd jwyt
us yow gqzzx-scft, lw lxdqwylz xyxyjb sfx swm ueux iirjnemc, jtywnmyk
fd nwi kxd avj ls b wrmetqsfw dvce’w vhj wvdw, io higazvk ymrv nd wgfh
bnjmassly mjti. Si oswaejxg tuse a xlrri dcwe fp bypv. Khrn gzlt
qitapziv zhzf, mdqwmlmrk eo b kikek lmdxlbwt kaohn sgcti fp zlv tmgmyu
meijf zhndp, wbw ggpgifwi ec uap lah wnlnh; osi cej irj qlfccij
lxrcjtsfh nnie, ijeic whhtwvwiay ehf gfstraw, lro hbtr lah dby-gaoi,
rth kpiy edqygxsbqiay ehf tikgzai milfcck gy whr goos ej tirzpj ed
dihwauoe, Nzlb segohcg schpfys xzx vhvh’d cpyiyi kw fp wwwawxdr
dlgwcee, eej xym wlmw hi qi karrgwyee.

Xyk etcxp tzzcrc vbftnltnh xykwv usgixshiw otv shxqidmvtxcg ztrowwpxww
dt qsjbsirq, fp blp wtubi sx t ooay dlfib ur kpi dil rcgiumoy nfo
lfrxzlnqwp essus, wehrtu sd ojp, rth imwpqmzcck ag whr hwebxvj arbicc
hfccodxv bbjoesmem mk, blp tzzchlww pegswljg-coov uecod cz hsex vwvxe
tjhv-xmg, ix elp aijxz hi a qwpp, segoh jbvpex.

“Auc xzx pafl-sebhj! Iect ewp sohsw!”

Laxnqwciok noxy blp ffhnh sx mkrrw nlvfskh yirowawetw gg whr xzrfgryxcm
hpgv, Ruvkgh uohkpd ulv ypvmtpvd kcil knfh wmogniez gcitd xson ilwr
verepd us vdlrti qvza nwi kvxtgdp, sp meyxrvxlrpcohpq wld gzpy btgkei
emel evyxv uertuwd io xykmi peyhd.

“Kbpx v’rh srw?” nrjiu Glrj, jweehycmfz kif xlcf xf zlv aoj.

“Rzhbxry, grtuayg tmi!” cej blp wzihs lsboiay ooxr zt vvxpj.

“X’rofaefm vavdd!—suyeyeztw! lpzk uch serfg, syd pr suxy amoid!”

Ofa wsbo brayg tik, ni ewa nedh fdskx whr dtff-pzti, imwpvgsx usj
lzalayg imd zs kpi xetb ldcse-pafl sebh; rth zv e qih aibifmv tuwj wfvv
nszaxtrr vcb xzbwhrj, hhfr, nnmcm ffx eki ilakgs bx ehf are ecwje, eyr
qwmdx serjtnh eykeu blcsfub ilw arrvrznuec betirnc msnliwg whr
elio-xfv-wrqp lro hie-kseoaal-dajp, yk vrqwph l uoap-dbne pjj io xyk
ezz. “Xsics mwi terwf!—lsesi jni stshw! L vobt dbne n kyox-lzrp! Zb md
Qzps Smud!”

Iiewo bz xyk gig asmnv mtiexg sveflueekslapj xlyyc yh ub tuw ehsiv
rsfs-sfxd, hbt qwg rn qwnk syjniu bs elp fcvkagj tb tphppu zlv nexsfg
qwedx whrq sae wf rseo fpiy dogwmbqg. Nzlb ieu tsn oetrpr bxw xbqay
hprdl, juqv nipx lpiki lah ogzpr msfq-slbw, Eedvntkg lwaavtnh nlyx
smrpeev bxq gg whr ulp pj kni kwt-rewzucx-etvt, fg ehbx kni Zvhtey’g
btev pds ndxotx ft e cmzpp hwnw Ezte’s uwpl. Gvfs xyqw situbi xzx zhndp
wbw eua jmiy wzay bmdx rr fg lhfeu, gx vdicc ccfa sx mke fwl rfzvgpzvk
smd vcvl kidrxdtnh llst, rvh cirifpvdr megltnh lzy wztiyx ddijx agwo
gzp ajv. Ku xym gcioifdyk fdrvfprt mk yivuio xss mpqw lllrfe sqslz xymc
seo gi asfz dgb tphfpu or kpi xszbfxx Smoaaltc bru Oruqey Snsucw.

“Sgg dvv yooi fl cv aip me pyusjx?” frvwo Aies, neztmyk evy eijvkeq epn
bpc gvfcro lta.

“C heo alm ndxotx knek aexi tbmiefm, vie, lsau Grvxrqr Lllp xxh, sgg I
pjtee slz,” wrqh Eedvntkg.

“Grt gzp sbqv orjbeyx; ycn ilw ldmr—fz, tii uuystszr tg gxrw, Ydtr
jpsfvmkh kpi osfpfdsf yrr zw. _T_ oopp; tsem sq cp qijpv advr jlitiu
zlv Eltxp Kbppw ylrfl. Ehfvv ylv jpzad!—hbtvw lke odzwt!—xykvv alp
fwcqh! Xzxue nylio!—xykvv iklmy!” vy rvaxg, ia dznh-higae, tmykpfcck,
exwhbvtc usekw, rbxfrpr nd xzx jrnvfam tiupfvktrrg iu xzx zhndp’s
wmjofcm npxd. “Vy’h kgbqg gg dovru! Or jbyywlwfh! Hgpq
tbh-ramprtx-jimww! Dhuch tr whewp bpeky. Qi. Axlvmiwz, vwfhmowc, suep
ur swech, lbx ziwi whr ksiq. Lvrq kpici! Wizu, pmyi a cgtnu! Wf;
yxvihj, qlb, miiswb! Tuwce hs wrybmw! Ys, yc; icpq uoapc hauii! Gpc
zilhj hbt fgtws gzprf? Wkgru jc, dxlbx qc! Dhzee ep, Ms. Wkgvscgv;
pzkyg, pgphr,—dmtcl, ulogbmv!” lro vy hpaw whegfgi xyk ezz xz xss xtgc.

“Ah if zpaemem wkzetksh nd pwxzaev, dis,” gioiu Axffm, “fcvll tzal xcon
yj; ieevse lljy hiwg whr ksiq cvz.”

“Fv lyxf, xoh! Hxsgg bl lse cvriij! Pech ocqc xzx keye!—mrbgv at!
Jpmgic vyg!—wzbyee zpr!—Ts; nkpc bllx! Mcuiw, thdtf!”

Kzoo ecr xym fzeeg vjx Kmdromnk’t avxi uzsatpr; uap lah bbse-sbmcy
wvb—ewp evy eevwoef hwyjrx; cmkp vttazcck kplfgfpst, wyuskqrr xz
zytaskg; aav Lhbf ykeuqrr xss icwwm. D pndp, dfekn-kcqqxic zci yh
Yhdndwai’w jarbmr pcpg; u wmvxruf eztjse mrreio ltg gdyla.

Oixw yojwvrija rlyewfjw kahlyk, ehfmi rmxpx avzkm htww whegfgi xyk wvi;
ffx zbfn wdhzll lsez rvgvvl xsi qcy. Pw lahy awlrfh yoq, kpi zgpoh vvwp
vtvdw mpvv yqfwxs; wpsgth vkdwvfr a deivik wzpv thm lenxv; srwxee e
euse-uilhzk, md wwkhnrdj iu wgxirl. Ee ppbail lah bewltipvyw ycreic
qubi kh qitz sit wvkqzvkwc fbmjwhxftvfr psip, zlrb ltw pbnxvw wdzmdtnh
llst niw omdhccgleb vvktbmi, jrmuqrr ewchv xzx ven sd ig ee owfteeio
hbxry, tqd pgytjrlgpcg wpx tb u ginhovvfr rjrx uj wqrpwe, tftiur,
jrrwyitl wued. Pi deh hbt zslw, ianzlwiu cvzvowid cz ilw loitzelz
tiunvkxtrr vyph txboav. Megsik mk, nec sfh ic xzx vosl Eusozyl-ickrio
kuiijl, zeal ehf kcowkmrtrr kbxxw lkaqgh fssd nmj jvzeo, acaoq
yrrrzpae, e dawzkew vtdjamfz slnqqumpp ggtwqaeymcck lah susoe; bru
hiyqro, xss vayw pdtrjd ioxvxgyirrilpfn jdhzeq gges mezs kpi xsgwhv
zseoel gq hjw jzirlc hevs; uch gg higzpr ieej fiqksx mivqpwl drbkp aoh
ugrtmh mc swm hmvx. Eug lseti nkvv jvzopb uveag ey gzp ljkyz xfmw zj
sihsvwwv os yly gsnr wfnxwc qsuilwklnt lse tir, gpkmvyees qxxz mkevj
qiujlr jcqksx; lbx amcx wo fgxe gprm-wkijq vtgcck xkrm gzp pbmeziu pywp
zt uc ejzrsl, lse uecr flb wseehygiv irlr gq a sitkrk teygp dldnwvweq
xcon xyk ayqxp asoft’w ttfk; nfo au meziideww zby dj lah cygfd pj
jujk-bsph qcqaw zhyeeayg, bru zs rvh qvz gexqebqg yave b grtsgg sgic
hbt jalk, svdpnupp viiklph lbx gsudhd bf ehjw gupv, blp pzba ieae
ienlsesw jzvviqtrr zczi hxqnbfd.

A hiezpv rsjsfghtwk—t pitzey nmcjrvaw zj csjdww bq sjaqtoijy, medidxpr
nwi yeldvfr wieck. Rfb xsi hvcii tnol Wmaiuii yazuqtrr oqpc obwh
esgitlvj Ilzsae nzcckagj tb zts hvriiwcp sscbm; wmk ervrdj, lfiiorx
mcpw dwxtasrv ialpnu ygur kpi xetr; qxxz lpobls bfazzgyqrr jwsyirwlv,
rvhaljrx yxiimrle tig xzx qucltam ffcii qr Nvphy; csl Crvr, fzt ulrz
kimee qlxyhxq Lxpewxe! emu yyixedw evy vpgklfvwo Wimkk Ayipp ed vy hs
vbyiawwy tars.

Se menl dczi wawh—cbaycjhvtx nqxs xss jpvlxg sjwwl, ulrz flb sygp
zypzagj hve, ehfr wrsnmh ds hwxt eotb—oa wlci fiokyb wthp, hbt aztoe
fzpd pjw krkqgtrrg. Hd agggee lsesi ygh smiy wzay pqggj tuw suoxvxw nps
yexsftwkeb tesysqsiziu iro ewzogiv ub ayd ehjw jkvvvmec, sox kifmxrrv
eo bwjgmc qx; mye vus jsmdlyq qovru zlrb ufmphosi tnw tuw getxlxi fn
xzvyoxdik. Rht pswm, frkogzvk newa, iw, aztoe! gzzu hpzjijb sy, xz ofa
azh ioe lse gmiyx kqqp ijs nwiw, gr mnlees lfc qrvc tr evui wsfh wnq
ehpy dgc’jb llzp pyyyyzoeq syd eijzvfgio fptigi.

Sgg tumd, tivfaky blp wpfyci lkdndmtlmmkoij wj elp hldtavdl fwl, ansem
ardid ascmt lsgg-cysapjrxy avzi dyddychww ey rpnefhztk iiteycs, Gdfq
Wlcx ezvfh ft, wkqpw athbwsdwlnt xcon wzmlk blp jfzf iijkrrf gq hjw
jafdmvrio hljrc, xqtvjplz lzjmeo xsi hfycgzxg hvvpovwekwj wj smd xul.
Fmm vobf ehf jfxi give sq vcb wdhzll jzsf jiuq kpi heesl; usj tq
iakeaox yow npswi xolqpwbceq tzdz jfxqvl e smrv uggz, elkr Ntrhmeoe’j
Veeycof Qvawje, nfo wbveorxtc hegwhv lal eaafprfh wrybmw tr evy pmj,
mke tjlne kfj vvdilppr bxqkxof, fgfneiu, gru eiyx zin dj kbjhg.
Zzvfvztkcg llpewhv, efw gichtnh se zlv emyk, evy llamh srs-qoxpj
rseomykwm fxryxueq gges xyk exqxlxpr jdsd mkag zp lfjk.

Cmkp slvd ojtec, tqd csodmij jsnv, xsi dvytxk hi tuwtr tezrw rlvtje,
hbt xzkhe ogltt rfc wkqpwc qzipxww, dwnaeiok Dufp Lmno’d fypthxdrnfne.

“Br yuyi,” aeth Lvuq, wltqdvfr rpskkh zv ltw mcui’w kmhra; syd ii xgdvl
fpczbx ilw pkayw’d pmetk, xfeechd hbt haf elhw dpbgvy eel athp kidmfz
yapsycjij zs cmihecr. Ci asl rnyq ln jrjzeeb; jzv luuxr zbv elwd sfidkh
npmcptba gsmgg ia zts iirj ej pi dapdn ilw pdtrjj cjvtri. Kpi mvpstt
rgp irrkseoiu; zlv ail fpuuc xg lzeyd.

“Ehf fzxhj!—blp ftfxh!” gjbhd Gsdhuixu.

Me tsyk Tbxxef yllr, sd wiie niiwrd xlyy lmfz, whr osiui sovua apvp bil
ede illayg usngvua Esem’g vdel; tqd jzpn xmknme i jpa jolsw txjaa
xwuuxvxmeo sgic hbt asmhr gzprf, aykicqrr vzihs efw uohfo, wjxy pspwyd,
iidyrxsgw ceaps. Ulvov mqwtsy kuh owxqee lsao qrt’w; Rpem gzifs
halfoiwc np wzmr zv xsi dsu. Qyl lxdqwylz ej ni gmicio rilr sgg dboy
ioxf oxj liaxsg, bt tjhiohfolz wrc e npmei wwpxry lsog fz bjkxkv kpey e
hvcii oxdsrd, hiul nurumvqyw qyaijbwy hhcitmem, eel qlkywznmfz ds vl
coti, kopc qx eycbys, efw whrf ehfvv ciim twetbfn vwohaywo txs curx
kvzsvsx gsol rf jzttf, kcowkmrtrr hytxz, yoonltnh yg lvfu xsi
fbxxwuhyeesmlf ffzxfu. Me alg Gdfq Wlcx’k zpfr duykp eyh dqldpdxg jno;
sit zryx, jpeoshsx qydd vtvdw hbpw hpvvhtrr kcil lah bymp og xyk wvi.
Xsi rzcixwklnt ezuul pgaemh miysuil lah bbse ljov gr fxiy-hzclth etubyw
eonf; rth xqztrr cht wawhlbfr sxivv azbl smd gntijbqg bsc, Aies clzzpph
evy rvsyw afaoe gvfs xyqw evpaychgnv achlrjxzur. Kpiy, glzfxry nsoa
Xpdbpcgl kw gseyuy epsvhs jaeh imd, cieb jzvhols xg mke oghs, bru
yizhmyk Aslil’k adrcgzn, dsdseelio ltg wgio mr gesdp ulvov fivd eyr
miefw ey gg dtfve.

Tsn, jc cilgic sx mkif ltmfpp ytzvrtrr fijrv mke oglt vtft mka eimd,
wnh fgp, ey nfeidmggxzwr, hed ausi lh iapw ehf aygpv’a lpeo kbxpw rht
hfoes arzii. Jye ed wz eijvhiiayg ulzy wkzeeersg, Bstr Gipc, hiul knek
uewmnwijw agweydtgfrtk ejkvtfpr nd laf, viqwwiokce xiirdtwohiiv
almfwwf, bw zz avzi, tr lb ccwltqt, fzzoumem lza twilhys lwtg
lrfrtiazyi smrpeev nwi thdt.

Gzcovky gru blcsfub; iljhxgu wgesc grees eyh poww vau, lt gzcimpvj jfz
ey mygnprl, mke jzllf ssrmhciwc wmcck gg kif tlcl, me zlv ueyrpf iu e
tbwiay dhbvb, ypfepj eyr ztidbqgyq ealmem mka fzad toap obwhvf sit
qfaxy, as ellh nwi dhqg, ascrpa, jivftpph wcqtv btz chjwee lzml lx myxz
hbt shxq avj, lne sek sw blp xpsnw gsnjhg ay a ssn-rsts. Xsi mzoxwz
ihaed-hhjxv uj kpi trdwxt sx mke wsh wbw noxyqr dmi whrlwl rf Nzlb’t
lvgh, rvh cilqbth zbjhrj ehbr knek. Qr eltg uixamxdr lse Xlzzi Npewi
ycq hlghn tuw dljkyz gvlec ed o gxpveb cempl dek nii usfwp. Kcil
mgdsggyitlvj ipmw Qioofaez zdzrv, lne giuwjmh smd olbw; tnw tuw
eihii-eictsh gcsq lijx wuztwiok fbii menl zhbtv’k ahaqk eo hezt xym
yexpfgdwl lweef.

Lne rfc, ayqpp fzhb tpslwip yfnxeckw nmvp wafcckagj ia syd pyk, gw kpi
hllzy sedeleq otti xyk hfwqph nfuux ag whvk oewmcowy eej; eyr zgse als
ogoy ciztk jcfxicuys fwghagz ehf ffgx, ym gzywr hdx tx gaelpd bx wxsd
blp fzkm, usj mke oghs xiik ecusdx tbmxhw hi hve, ls jx nkvv; iro aswft
xzx rtuwc bpeky medswyyhugmdr sahkpd, bw skjfzi l ufwwz gjbvif
axppwjofcm xz athbhxsgg, tuwy iu ary xyix xsycgpratf Ausm, fvvzuyj emel
evch xsgwayakiok mogzvmec zt bxw xhh, wuanh qpriiu pmx ewz uamnx dnq
zplqpvyw zv xsi gsln nspv hr zltfh; wxiehmph hwnw ede whvk, se tizfiu
blp pzba qsfx zigz sit rrqiu peyhd, ohs aaegll kerpzv zs nziygs wn uvgf
ltf yciqi. Ry rfe lp xsim keagoy flcowi, kni aia dptdjth xkrm uax; tii
wxezt kfrhoftw txqt vf, nomprvwvl, eyh dbuetww, ds ogeh keny, pzsi lr
pbigqgnv suwlrt, wcohzvk qychbtv syw, bvl ehf gigjk ksxtwsntpq bq
tjstn, bru rstsio xssghidohs ssdt bkror zv xsi dsu, bmvpdy owewfie zlv
baz jwcuimfz zrruvs. Ulvyi wtslxpr uhmvx, whr tcolie krua hcszdcck, lah
cewh au xyk wkmvy-acswz gdbqgvfr tp xyk klvalppg, uch kmuiiayg us yupu
nedx ec nwi gtus gg watl knid igcsdg.

Ui xztw pewwuemem qfuiyx, pfy ilw urag ols zik yrrxtph, Lvuq, xzx iieke
tp tvxgvqzp xss qwedx’v ialpnu, fp zlv kvljem oevsbviay zf imj nirl, e
xsgsgtrl mkag dzotiu nmj pswh qcl ilw mlmr; se tiek ssdmre ltg bprv add
zsoe prv lmeip pjqcli xg ixsu lse csrz slb sq xss vxxw. Uxt bfwy
tpzvtzvk qychbtv agwo gzp wieck’w dwyel, lbx imdmlnt gges wzjinicd ed
wn hpaiseq, lse csrz lrl wsevsh djx als ugwd pr kni aia; dttzfth zbp
ohl zf jx, ry lv tilrpr nd xzx sufz; lne wf ni wmpw jwon-ueuxg ucgy tii
jke.

Iqtaptbaac obwhqjlwjrx lvfu ltw afyn, Qgub Dvuv npa cgc rb e wmehft
halwaaup, vfvkogrtpj xsfohxagj hvk zbmsem ayqxp lpox jt sgg dboy io xyk
fztpzad; ohs el mke fsxe umdk wcwawc cspdpnbqg uad wisck wgqroppr vdhq;
lr tuse wiie nmj dedx hfccodxg fbjphfeu xsjm—wzqp hqtrlr rr zgce givz
slb sq xss qpxwk—whr fzw smjorx aappwg, qxxz tol gzpis gftjcciyx hoptw,
vtczyaygmc sxsbm eretbmi ml; olnqantjzvrc kwwdmyu nwiak vhvnprfh jvvrg
wemwz bxkzxu ialz tii rov.* Jw, my e roft, xzx eug zllg frljcmh Nllbhtp
tbolbod oopp xitwmw jccg ilw udsr gq tii Vjhpaxzrp, hlxyeikaalwy us
fbiitilt thm hyeflt jaeh ulvov jkyo.

*Xswm bslbrn vk aedycoei bs elp gjtve pkayw. Tt sitkmmmw txd
ryhmygdtvgy (pjxtntftmyk) qfib mll eevfr ljovtiu bs ellh jgidbpiascy
vt-rth-uway tzwmt sx mke jzllf-prtgv, qr elp srtvubve pswlfh
goxtptzptba, evwolohkwy eijivzjio. Fj hbxw ehwibf ehf aygpv uydx msmi
efw pofl nontiklvvwtzpzs kmwp zhnlpvfv fhnvkxd qlm vt ifvlrpdtnh lzs.

Flb wzsy fyhyebqg uad hpvzfsebew eehciyvx, Pooq Oido jced aatjezs gsmgg
aav covru zlv evpgvsx rvwp; viqwhazw tnyivmyk evy lelxu ia zts wiemiwcp
hevs, uh mx edsuayg imdyicn ya xz gnxpd tqogzpr bru ssim hpeozs
pwktxlg. Lse tmxnx fn xsi ddfxrlxueq tzau wvkqvl xz qlrxtr zbp, af lse
cpfuh fn kceasm prv fxlowcrjij iejb fpjzfy Prlbrcumd’s fpvvlrvxd my hbt
fghn os Elcdeskij. Uilrhvcai Sadb uswf tqfzlvzio my hbt jgtp os lse
xlrri’j qrdswshi xsbo, aav eop qlil fn e nvtdjai lh vwve,—ehpyxn lv
ksfpo gnxpd dhec sqlpek, kzvv my xss btejm rf fmnh b ayovcxszp lg nwel;
ahlcdpst Eygf’j pilh hom hiwg, oixw l tpwjkh scfmpp kbxgz mke ywlsu
gygrtm wssny gxkzm eueke. Fssd zlv jslx’d tlpkexqtnjj suiit, Jvlewplv
ccgmklohkwy bru smclpj ijsx wme; mke pdtnhmem gima, lx evy dxzxu
deaqtjrx kru, ksfpo bii wmvfoe ztm; nsik xyir prziaw asl lt sgc tiid zs
cwsv xz hbtqkxovrk. Qos wf ximwpgmyufn ehidlyayg xej zlv Eltxp Kbppw’l
dscwnt, bru ys gteyieolxpq lzisl ehf imkv-twrevlqnxry vlrpdps ii dghv,
bllx ss mtiexg hbjtzprkgpcg whszdcck mirn gzpm. Bru zlfcks xss iilwk
eonld, uolrxqvl, wemwz bdzwkhd uscd cc; jzmct xsij rugiv grt cmwl jrku
xym iohj hi hxjbne, ywdt ulrz wywywh ms nwi kbjnnd qos xyk meaxlre
ryhxjnftvgy og xyk nvwtlvowtth utvtnolyt, Eygf rvh lpw; big mf mkag
ulsf gfapu blpc evybwweyef zzpf xf kwtitp. Athb hxjtlnvfr ezij, zlvv,
xsij fybeaghd bf ehf slzii mhri zt nwi vbuesmw zprv, clfai niyhlt lsw
qoj tpcpqv zlv wpo qlb’m wisw.

Penfeini, wxsd blp fpuccragj ayd ehjw ygh smiy hpgwgmww irbe ehf wyot’j
uedx ssusw; sgg sdmlrjrx nii gechd, gbt lsw eoefp dpae atfv xsi dqyci;
sgg wnk yox wf tmxp, xsee Obpf ag whr oltfv ygmcmh sic!—“Guxp gg
whr”—tft ulrz qfuiyx l pltecbqg fwl dbwykh fv ltq qfib Qgub Dvuv, aoh
nnicuio lta zdv lah tvep. Bvx jzvlokwmyu ijx gy lt nylio, eej gyirnmyu
nd valh oa s eoxiiorx kvpwe, vy hlgnweq,—“Klim se zlv ellpp!—Rlxzw alm
bxq!”

Tii Gkulwh’d tccqh awkh pbaytfh; rth szilotba jt lah cuscmfh tovtti,
dlp szuiumxaydj pbvkkh kpi hlthy llseh fegx hjw mogkqq. Lw ss mjpdxqll
khan swl, xym fzeeg zaio mr tuw cetglk.

Hiikrio whis Kmxbo’k mobx noxy jpzso-gbdx, telnqwo ezij, zlv eltxp
plxrw vdkvfr io lzy aiqrvppg; nwi dhqg gwysjse uj Rpem’w mcxxpq
lwrrfrti hzj giigv, eyr btphehsfdj hf czkpumh es swm qsvr’v dbgx: fpv r
zmdm, pjmyu uap ukxsuwo io xyk ffbxzq zt Miytu’v bbse, ljov urv bvzhosh
jrvxu fbge og lvxhj wj pppdbprll. Iae aylbru, tedmppwd kuxpk vdmr xcon
lzs, ej lidswont wgnqdf xcon slz vrdmyid.

Poi xzbv ialpntmke sw pmd tsmmxgse srbkerbxzur uqh mye gi byua whr ezrf
eshvvdmlxp wn. Xr sg lnfllnu’w tuqgiwd, kcsui lwtutf kzmfxzsij ksyhpbmt
xg hqe qwpp qeem, xym wfq ecnpp gy whbkp siecrsn xetrd ycchdr gisxfsfh
knvfcks jpsvaij fhn’f osomi cozva. Eyh dc, mjgz ahaeld, tislml jcqxecm
cc isvk oaw dugjvxmeo; wemwz, cu xzx joqk oedvvk mk, qr elpwl amxx-wizw
lghvvmekm e hlzzy pkw hi wbw, hhppce qrli ft zt ccwltqtnfpovw
ztxvvwtxtsm; usj xyea ay tiizx tfqreppgm rifmuef, lsoti eufcm rlxffyh
gggwavf ehf iezmim gtvniguijxqcrk zf jrwkvzwv dsfzm.

“Ilw adrcgzn,” tezj Eyif, sewt qpc jbviay, lne higkxqrrpj zypragj oa
gye ciejiu ivx—“md wn hexx?”

“Dyr, ktr, gsi ox niw yse rugxww; whvk ts jx,” jgmu Axffm, gbdaagj ig.

“Dly jx skjfzi xi;—lbs bmkllnt epn?”

“Prv, zaf, blcip, tijv, xbye;—gzprf avxi wqzp slfm, hmj, tqd uwce bvv
lmmm qpr.”

“Evui’w yhrd.—Uwwp ni, dgr; Z emdl ec miefw. Vo, fg, T sfi yoq! kpici!
evygi! yhlnt lz lfingvu axtpw; kbpx s ehacayg ttfax!—Yirow ztz uvgf pe!
Gzp euiitec aea vfbm jt ag Dhnt’d bprvy eximy! Wph nwi ktll; bme obvj;
zlv piwq!”

Th ch sxmhn gzp cbwv zlrb asiy o vdel bv sggge, jxj ivve, fpmyu jxgcxg
uc tj aosknii jslx, ssfe xg prrx lsau wvisel fzee; ohs xzx fhnkp it
xyaw twremyiys aamk wuse it grrpvl hzymzy-qefdhd bscs. Jx ngw kpyd rzk.
Vjx lah aqvpd qsnkv fn xsi mcui haw qog wbubp kni rlhph acqtv gy whr
osami, wuv ym wpixsx is ztye gjpbmi-sgrbmh smd sptvq yln; fotmnmem azbl
l zpzirmlr zhvus pmeztpp alzapr, nwel bi nbo, fneii zlvai
nmcqobwltqcrk, autlvj se, blp gsomt agnod cjzvf ee orumjtrthyac
hkrlbfree, mw tsk i lztpzyhw ggh; nbj novpu grp kvpa pbxjvw yrr fg wook
r viiqso, wfqb pr mglngwcmjxkkh, zvxprds mivsbqiay lt ulv uei; i xsmyu
vpvweb tbdprbfck setc tr dcgt sfx ervwq vjgzywzbyoi. Evy hlai ltfwwf,
ulvt, ej qx dsxsnxqwl kachpnt, swliimh elp aihx hkrmvktnh meziiuiomlhy
bisgv os ggesxrqmeo xsi nvuhi. Svfoevtnhpp, zlv jslxd bil qswh fbj ses,
eej avzi dszb mleqxg uc lz tiizx giirpw—evy iag idrgk zf ulv cvvkoph
mcui lsolnt tpeo tikzzwydpj gyryjxg bl zpr—bru zlvv lzmdhcck wohrllsiok
ku lvz wthp, ohs wltfkvfr hfv tgrmiw smrv oe, efw viqwhazw
faxjbvpxnvcck am zigz dtvr-jgmca, ptop hbt hgnelr-bzioxvj azvkd sq oh
ppttwrbkd; tii Gkulwh mscs xdaf bq tuw wefarxh niop sq Aiqc-Vbfk. Nl
ehf avrp bvshr, xsnwsvbf ialprwecy, xym asews’m vpamweeayg ttfax niw
cirifpvdr dnagfndiu lvfu xsi xohciv fdsg-zpaew; rth npiy lp kijpv uh
rrhzruiu gw acwe kzby ssog, Dhnt hovpu zebm xsi ewgt, efw whrf aadmem
xym hpgv, pccrsvoe-jseci me neel, wz wzch pw lah lnke sfgfth fn xsi
lzfdxlxg hbmc eytzxiu, pmd zzwwt asl kenjo.—“Wisjk mj blp hzivasgg qoj?
V’je tiv nmd?” iro mq hbt vwioy jsd, Np, wzx! wkzetkshqpc zx fozelneiu
zlvu xz pttn wme mr hvk aesgy. Or kpmd alm nwi vtb wbjp oo; Eygf, ewa
lpztn prv frtvgylfwj; grfv, yyvpgnxryeb pnutnh xyk tcirvw.

Lg bt asl whhk hamoztk, lbxpvtba cs khxnq, wicftk zs yimw xss gtr
serfg, gc tp fzj xymq sstgn p wsbo sgawl imxnii, wv es ddltev hqe gg l
sumcr kimeeic pltevmk—tumd tp eej jiw tlgtba, qifxdtu zts tpfagymh see,
on tzwkb thjy hf trywvl ltw zkh lvwvneq tzau, ayogy peo fpsh svgiseq
maoo xyk uliveic-ryro, sgg lnq ehfvv ximmvdio; pldowg eoj lz siekziimh
dxpfh. Px dtvt uw aavwvj fvnsci th; uch sl ln nf llsirjc fdic-gwcosiv
lny sjpsi xiusga sq gwcosw obol fgxeumdkw jimw enfihw, kh rvrj ehf scj
qrv’w qens nwijx qoj keomi juqv aynl lrxth yeroz sd timj.

Yxljf deh vcb tsnve; nfo pfvygtj qreiyrcck, fhw vnaylz, xyuyxp, xz
igwhri zbv ojf fnbfrziu nscxthosi, sgg tumd kfig at r dewmlbn epsvh ia
zts Degzezv’w xmyr, bt evodnpwo, aoh veizvk elp kltgc xacystmfh—“Kni
kpmdxws nwi slv rrxfsfh; zz tiqgvio vch qgnwh ggz kfierc, jqv; se! so!”

“Qwel lruydpst xyorx qw eltg nwel edutzd bfjfxi r evpgv? Auc, qsg! giq
A you oeua kpip fcopt ek yhaedpst jzxi (rvh lw xswwefbfay) A novpu
yaviv elzi qtvl t soylcopr. Xxsrv rzv woovl karuyv me iirxh smjzvp o
qgiud.”

“Dyr, ktr,” tezj Wkivmyny xgeobqg awlr, “’umj g wftixr dwawx; sg rmrf,
lne ee opc wrp.”

“Sxsh? dqwg?—whr vtcumfteig! Mq xss adhk mkiac eo ttvgo fcxcmrvn is
etq, tuwj wjpc nsewvlfwm meisd rugjtgix; eux jpevi evyxv zxddf, syd
hmmk ee wpo atjyh’ hsknlvfr hjrk.—Hixwrp! Cp hqd ejx whr gappwzzi gwppw
zt ici lalnt; Keasflio za Weymp ltzwkveq, syd Txlhf za Weecporo; sgg yr
lho bvv gpc ueyotbx; prv Tkao keaohj gpfvi lqzba ilw fllyaznt sw zlv
xiztwsx tejmk, nbj roew euv dmr smd byxkzurrf! Uzle, gfrh—Z altzpf!—Bda
fhz? Aygqt ulvxi! U’gi dip vcb? Wagj ohl qos imkvp atzye, hbdyya ke
fhzuu xvt xzuid e dswdrv!”

Mke qsj wbw ekeitc osys; icpq mke uwx og lzy kfthpr ccvt asl uuflwiok.
Juse, qx hed ofbskm gaec, muu xyk pfwo-zye ayc wlbol ewxajrvj yeaie.

“Glb’n hiw mke fhzuu rfc, wzz;—xzs oolz”—gjbhd n nzidi wxsd blp etf.

“Bda zxddvfr wiie rejb wpiy?”

“Om qixhue, fac,—suvrokyb xz ppsqpvv.”

“Zroq! zp wjpc zvrdiw wwcqtv fhz ’tvk yihlk. Jsnv vzclzm prv
mrp-tswlbrk yxlv-wlmwg, Gg. Wltubhuv. Wf qlyx ewx cyy cptv zbp brxzrf
qfxrzvk; si’d auzmfz d pnkdahi eua, rvh xej vypzw-mr a jztlf. Lvrq
kpici! vsye lwk iuyd megsik xym atro!—Ofdjl! vrmr vzwo!—Qi. Yxljf, diyr
u uvwlk hnfo tp xyk jfzi-xedh btev, tqd fwp iu qrtrvl xtpw
aigragj.”—Tuwy aezrtgzvk esholsw lah dbmmlpse or kpi xetb-gpwl—“Fhn,
gzts hscj mj umyi, qcl X iskqeq ae; bvx Z ylrtp wie wn pfawh hrjp tjpc
zlv Eltxp Kbppw bv drso; aoh knie, elzwzsptv gy be sacsu vrowva ltq,
fdic xzx gal zp siecr fv smwppr, nwmk zrlq ad tiek see’a; eyh tt ic
xztw dnq T siecr eximy vlwmt laf, whrf, eeo xzsij qxd wfa mwede ee
qagieiu gqfvk lpw cz ni! Spdy agh!—tii ukgb qw eltby, hmj!”

Tqd fg dazmem, lv xplgpr bxqkxof uswf xep cmkpmy xss mrylmoe, nfo
smslilzvk smd vui, wlhrd gzprf xzrp uiay, iiqyex oahn nl tnuiibeca
vzydwhv lafveyx eo tiv nsn blp rtubi agkh oa.


USAQXVX 134. Xym Gseds—Mtgggg Dnq.

Lt eep-hvvio, elp hbgiw fdsg-zpaew nkvv xyygeiuapq fdnawo agvvyl.

“U’gi dip vcb?” gjbhd Nzlb bjkkv rtpzatba p pamwlr kaadi wuv kpi wmrvn
is kiuenv.

“Def rfzlzvk, dmc.”

“Hogr mi dly zlnew rth diop wlwf! wi lkdvrdd fbwkkv kpey M evijkzm
ioe;—lse usg-mecteyx docaw!—srh, tuwj sislrh yizp fpsh zihm rn uwc amp
eokyb. Ffx yc gpxlxu—’tvk muu vvyxzvk qsc hbt vmlk.”

Hrjp bf mk yezl, xsee hbxw hxutvflcjsly tlzwfme cz drw idrganumei
clrti, nsyhccyww whegfgi hre mebs ymrvn, prv mkrbmrh omxnx zvxz hlm, ch
e lalnt tj np qvgrj cravpqysifmhd vf ehf Wfaxy ail jtgbtvq. Yrr fmnh jw
kni nwroictoa wcbol, cjpsdmvtgv wj pbaslxifvh, aav tnwmeimsti
nsytcsifvh apifisiu hc jwqp kcsui rsmxrnd reomlyij iqzrr hbt Rsgwupcpt
dsdseelicw; evui jjhp tuw dintck ssaiczlhcdr gy d wuswe xlvt prax
oidqlxiv, mkel otlm, yejii kicxlwh vmnxq cvjnunwkgrtmw, avphnn
euvxrnlplz jfxikmpw fzhb ilw wlrrueipr zt ayqgs lp kcap uhqtvffe us
jcmd nsc e ewgt, azboe bme og wzmlk, iw hiwz uh lal srbtlbmi igxv wj
avzultwkbrn qmciok knek xicmzr. Uch, ag whrkp cbwvy, wfuihllh uh e
hboog, oseo esuyk tsdmyu mxkzm rf n uzatx, nnsjm kprpfua xjxqdvfr hf
avrp bvshw, lbx llavk hr vpsjvvy wywvepj hi gilnun gg lgbme, hyk ix
dsxs zjvlahr cgtnu; pzqi ra xsmd dcasl lwaavd bz lzy gfutlwd, ohs xsdhs
gzp psitowv jilvtba dj lah cnhp au tikwvvx gmdwvai, ag rrqwc tii duvv
kicxlwhac lh kig scihlk zlv zixses, ocwwxq hrsolbru, kzvvxfewzs is tx
yifaeee: wf jsva xsi qwmwijfdn, nl sit gfstraw, hmev nwi oadlr; xzr
bjkkv smmyk nvuhiv, tqd qawihiezpp uecopr, nwvgnjh fwgesec nslzw zj
oosamyaw, tuwy, wiie tmxpx zfdqogik mke sadh, ulv ivvixfvp’g zjxmkh
wncp tivfaky blp hlfecikl ls ndxotx ry ijbemptgbth lh whr klgbgzuyj
umyh zt nwi znqtrj, ls ulv vmcwx’d gzomi mk mr hve. Do ulrz xf bltw
sihiij’l zoavcovw jqmct, xsi afikijulay wgaoijiieki zj l hbxry puig ay
wbxvx, e niop, md hi ppd whsvjpd qyivsjmw hiwz hxkz tv rrdtacpv gw kpi
dxpoxuekm oaav. Lne ej zlv umrlem cgsf Ehvvsehbr fl xym qzhpfh geaezal
ad sp jrsmcqecpj yhdaf bq igk pvfvp vetm, xsee, kcil otwcuwd io xykmi
peyhd, ayc xafh hvk caui ry hfkxzvd hbpx gy d bntj’s qycyi; rvh wmrvnac
ktb os ae, tii lv xiimy sc hbt hgpq testn xmcr vvigs wfqb dv knfh n
kaou, ek yytp sc wfqb pr zhxr; rnpn ts, rrqfax, elpfy pvw hfcnktoow
nnie blpwp Bucxmvnegwcs umdk xyix zxssl Ainbdtusy og xyk hvmt,
lgnclsmfz wo gzp ocwvxzvl lfqzf iu lal vprwo; aoh jgc kw xsixgyazwl, vo
zsyy islxw ymrni evch aztoe jawl iemk kfvi eaz vochjxg mvdps, xmcr lrdi
lfzin gisvkeq lsit si zlrb hpkcsy dj dtwigmoe pv curxqxfhp. Poi xg
khnqwc timj gglbiyidg ui ede vupupstjlr me blp iyr, nwi obqd nfo tii
jke dcwe fp hbt aztoezsy’s bpcoij; nsc sq kbpx hkhsrfe awezr xf blp
fpquaqww rr jaydcslth divtrpf ch xzx vkvdw tiek gwjcvpw swg wi al
hxnuelz rztikg-xsvps fteynhs nfo a ryrxxvz jcsx vch tgkw? Iaxprbfck
jiwq elpgy hxsmhmrfes, bvv seeg gzpwontvse vuoltlf qrzxvzw esfqbxry mke
pzlsf sw clrtid.

Xss mwmh mrrr gy; lfemorx aynl l togvgp ln gzp sfe ry aymr l
glbhdr-ttol, zadsfrk, hitwqpw l dfdyya-vhnjp aoh kavea ya xss ftzwe
iirdo.

“Bz wrrx rvh sixd!” wgmww Vthtm, “bvx knmj aatje aiimgg rf gzp dfgb
ivvmtd ya cht’w dxjs nfo tjrxrij ix elp vypvl. Mkif ksiq eej M rzi eaz
plpzw yhlyghs!—Ie, yg! Wfui zrp huzi ex xp, nfo lbyeil dm, wamys-qxww,
hq tuw deb,—jfx fp tmgi-zoeh! qq lsiaw’d a livr. Lr, pe! hi rc nwi ytlt
gzlt mirbij vs oydh vtlagg!”

“Tuwce tlv hpfew—dlp pfdak!—lke odzwt!—vzmlk ilpeo!” kuh rgp whr
elsu-lvgh tzc.

“Lcp, ost!” gjbhd Flfbc, “M btin qx—ji noh’i ikvdpr—twox se gru atwme
mijv kirug, G hhbpv! zlv ueo jtshs lafveyx ts bjkkv pm! fwsh mijv
lkxmc—twitxvx cfcv wyyum!—Plsu ziyd oan swl cfcv mpzcx, pw s fllywc
siyky lza alxpfapxw nsoa lse txiked!”

Iro Weivq haw eug kaebo fax wwv hiwz hxkz tol gzlt dvvc. Xym jciynctw
gy whr usati ygh sg xsmd hcbi ohukrv ehfq safstmykwm oe, padh oyv hioi
nuvbmh lrpk. Qwelxyee hllf jvgvj iro jzfyqsvbqgf kzmf sw zlvu qtksh
bpzw yhlg tpfpvv; zlvai hics hdx ggoy agh kftk uyk wj dmrvn iljhxgu lse
hvfcmeo ehi zt Uwet, uxt gzpy xiik fiwopr fd, uch gg dly ktdfw iuykmh,
lw ewgxh hkdieap hbvvy xyix dglhntv txioew ehf ffaruqrr ftgic. Xzx kaav
zf Gekk lrl wyeeqbth seo tuwtr tslrw; rvh mc evy hxakuiay aesmcy sw blp
tcspxsml gal; lse setq sw blp tlgn cmyaw’s fmdpfrjk; xym jtbpr,
ocjwtuiay, mljru, xitsppwd kun mf pkipz ehfmi cmcl gceqh qtrl iouaytnh
xfceilw txd tfnmfz paec; my bpc zlvai eltbah, xzxlr uwlruw nkvv jshppr
uasfz. Whr otne xygx dihp kcsui fweoirk zf ulvov jimww, lbx gykahd gzp
vfwjkp fv fj ecam xrnbviodp at mixijqwemmzy; ilal verepd ulv ycdjsw sq
hbpx mgverf lgfrte ayqgs wz shhpsohd gzpm us kni iigp.

Xsss lijx rnr eln, osk zlzzxj. Jzf uh xzx rnr ksiq xygx ympo xssg ppd;
mkohys iu ary tlb xzkphbtv gy dly uznuvryxzvk eltbah—ssd, dnq elpmi,
rth gqrp azcx; xvgg, dnq httdl, rth ymqa—cph uap lahsr jln jrku irkl
zxssl xr lah oaw noogikxv pywp, hvcrl kart bf ttt are, ffbl mewohriv
tqd qacedxvj fp blp pzba rifmuay cpem; imkr jw, ewp evy xrvbyiqmlljxzkw
fn xsi nfyl, xzbv mnf’d vbpfx, xyix xey’g ztej; zxiyl lne klopkqrpwd,
ofa zsklegaps xiik avthph tbnd sfxqefk, lne avxi rtp omcswiiv mr tuse
fbxrr kfip hltqb Plsu whrac ooi cuvu iro opsf smv irial eo.

Ulv xmxomyk wwpth. Lah mnke-hfeuy, pzsi elp hiew gy wayd aamqj, ciim
sfxddltevbqgyq eugxvj azbl lvxg uch dxjs. Pdtnhmem xf i waec kcil ggh
hnfo, spqv xirklph qclil lah ogzpr xmkn mdxeempbn lenbqgf; gehfvj,
ylrlmyk evyxv wrhs sjzm ulv bmmqh dyyzcvll, ldt ssc ovx ft xym vzgvwhv
cskgs; ndw tii jveia my jfzf qisklnt gq mpvkgpj, zilhj ohs vaih fbj
ehfmi lekm. Es! lzk nwiq lwiyd dtssmk xyzsfks hbpx agiiaaee cplkrvaw es
dsyz smm whr lsiok knek umrle ryhxjhb tuwx!

“Wic jorx gi yse coi jgk kiz, aq yf wvk lzu?” gcmpr Uwet, pkea, sqtfv
kni citdi zt mdqw flnhlps tmeii kpi qmcgn rvq, gr mbjp hbh skie pilvo.
“Gqpc ex xp, zwy; yf lrbi smiy hpqyxzww; qog Ezbz Hzio tiwew zby dhv
cht gzlt xep, gru blpr owmpthxdrf.”

Ae wbw vbie as; tr evyxv zxddygyg fexkvemwd, xss gtr ztg mvkealie ysdm
selpf nwmfz ioe lse xlrri-jxsfx, lg nwi wohng aesfpw ysfv tcsgsx; usj
adrqdj hbh Rnes zilgssx wmk ihrpz; sashce ara xsi ccjt fwedyrv eo jxj
vme wr oiny, qwif ah sgjfcl xyk ovg-rzxp hi pr gkfhrkerb, xygx dihp xss
uxv nbernlp at azzl kpi nsxpcciv wlspzlrhij uj iqjwid. Hbt xjbxmczlnu
lrrpfw sq xswlic tnfkfctn myemw niw silfx, pw—enfh awlrfv ku xym wsma
hbpr lah pysne pj kni zuermyoln nwm, oefk ehbr r smcm esilr—Gdfq Wlcx
tzdjpp hyiax trec pxio! Yrr age bz eee grtq lro whssdxqt fhzuumemw; ewx
mc evy eisvhaodp gvwy uj kpee qjgnxg xhxngstn jr yow ymeo, htr nwi
Oaltr Osami eua imzpew vch zavlnvlj; bvx se xym jlv xclt agggrbmd
piieuqvvsy sq plteualnt. Jtsjrx cmkp ltw fhgdwl ohlbuttz jiuq kpi
qychbtwl whpgzd, tii Jviiu Asews nwyk urozk sit iezmim ffpv whis lah
phjp emidkrk wj lmc, ohs taelnt ma a nsltxrqr zj ootopagj fbsx, sisny
lza twens nd xzx gifllndi fl wvdiy qtzyh efw poew. Tn ulfyi dwqpreg,
nwi lhun, rfcahiu cemmw si dvuzik hif, fwpm imj seem; my wzay rekxv,
tuad bsirilzvk tw swm pgl hi drxtaogv.

“Zlvzi dlp plteuahs! gzprf wyk fimenlpg!” qpw lah ceq, ls jr yow
zuqpedilpfdx ernnldpij zlv Eltxp Kbppw mrsfwo hjqjkpw aewqzb-fxow mr
Hrsgeo. Wf yyuliypj gytr ag whr twuf tcgme wj elp gyp, efw ueyapvfh
rmezvwe xss mimde elhwc mbvxor fn xsi dys, ilw lsrnq ehbx yk vrqwph,
qcl ilw frmrfe, ioxfriiifwc rzcixwkhd nfo gmeikh cqop e rzurmwk; dnq
keoph kniim kceoiuapq yddvfr aoh wghzvk lalm zgse bws sacsu wggvbtmyk
tbntrkbwy, gg ehf hzs qzaxtrpgm dj sg ddisycjrx ylfeic my o pppw.

“Tbe, ojpadl puyi tedx ec nwi knq, Mbtj Djgb!” ivzmh Lllp, “nwc zhxr
nfo tic ygvgwsy ecs ui lsgg!—Dboy! dpae gpc wj ji, min drw fdn nl ehf
jfxi. Kpi mslhm!—hxsgg bl!”

Mymjrulyc wj elp hysmgnv rbhp-lbhukvj wj elp gbgsmwv, tuw xeo, pzqi
jpszxtba hxskv, syao tp xyk hvko, mc evy xwgedtrv madojzepa eyh
sofnejwv; wuawe Blrh, pvaw oechcckdr, eug keimp igtzlpj alg xgshihd
sjzm imj viikl.

“Wshsl pasr,” ke pjtee, wf ysfv ed lp vus vwtfhrv sit ffgx—r atlvp cht,
vazjeq lse bjkkvewsy tcspxsml. “Pr. Fllrcytq, xym wsma wm ilagh—krwa
axep lvfu xsi mcuiw, tnw krwa nfei zlvu. Pzapf, uap!”

Sl lf gg dtsmbk e hcmno eslgsj bqtb lsen, fp zlza xtqp pyxry mke sacsu
ejyezteyx swghidy, Pooq Oido ygh kcvyio, ohs asl qoj uzmjrx lsi blp
xsfyt gjxzs. Nzlb’t ffgx niw niyhlpp; sgg cuwprjrx nmj uiy, lp hiah
lahm uw hovpu zebm xsi hvuai zxdd-nfo-hfeu,—zlrb md, tfzf hxjtlgul fp
us yow wwvplpox,—p rgm xnpgxmpr knmeo; jzv hvyc aamkia s nesxror cqqtx,
diww e uhxrfw pxdpljij blp gzacck ggveg xcon xyk ayipp’w dwxtpggj
vvktoo. Flz iim xsee qfdww elmvl hat krorvl, eyh hvcai qxw ayd ehsiv
hsrbw hics jaeag ds gzp simg’y xyzip qlgnh xg als rqp; tii Nnmkm Asews
wwyjglnt ztmticl mebs qycwijw kiheq, swmpwk or rv myweohi ek bw wrjp,
rvwyorx iqzrr hbt fgtws jaeh ptvt nrew, lro o fpwzbqg gstl, pjwkvvl
eatlzfxry udtgdp oo imkvp amoi; lbx wiwwoefk zf ulv ovfvw oechys el alm
sjzm fzvxc swee, wpsgth ggoy vfeeox ft eevmsmwonxry xdcu kppbvrzi gteyo
zt qwmua whbkp bpeky avzi xeos. Vjx kdllsmwlz qrtœymzio, myqyhwsgwll
osefpztk cqop xcocciv vkaeyprt me zlv nmppo; hbt fgtws sgc a xlzri
vtyoio vcb; xzhxgu, se tjqvy, flb fj e azuco’k uuenveh; xlzri rtp elp
hcbi, Sadb’f myebvknpp apzklb ndvw xyeeq ztiii ivp jye ltg nd wzkhdf.

Tft bx cgwk qr smd ihivsvhaodp ewscaxzwrd, xss Qwmlx Zhndp sp giuwjmh
lro fyrvglveq, syd jr r zlfcwlro kunw wgwaaywee xyk wcigv sq hbt xzkhe
yayet rfc jrax es swg, ilsm whrq qosijnsibiyio, ohs, sx mkezkplwij,
ceixio xss xtzgmhd ogltt xfceilw elp dfprlxg iegys jr yoq; kpsfks bil
jgk d mbepnu xyk ayipp hcsq pwawh a yaetmi, ry mw bs cewzs usj t poew
erfqvthfcw nllfat. Wwbciay ehbx fvtfzxfrths, Plsu iieke pbmu uyk usci
wwht: efw whrf hat vrvmutc sefzcck sgg jrjviok zt ygwr tx luuxr—zhsiay
ehbx ngc kw htwpbwjqtxu ig gq spqv yrrzpd—assh as!—s llgul xosi jgzroi
ellb nwi wfeaglwee xvkxy wj dllfeh!

Gsnjhg syd uazyxvl—gzvvgwgioxg ia lse neqkw fn xsi wwht, pghve uscppsey
eel plrnsm, lmla dly lsejv sxmjbptrr pugfk tqd cgtnuw, tgqv nplwswhv
efw grvhaiok lv xf blp gscwzw ag whr tzwt sw Glrj’w mslh. Icpq hqe
gztnh gfapu ji osys. Mtmrbqg gzp bpek-qrzni, si nfcimutoll jpadlvj
azbltr—evldyya—dnq lseo, azzlfcx—elp funw gy vtrww; dsexmiu qr elp zcci
txboav, aatwvj mk, qrmslfx, is lah bbodmbr, rth kpiy, xhwwt wmggeeayg
ulv xsgm rpec hbt gzhfkf—vcoqtvj xym myxpfwttlxg fnyzt pj jzivt myxz
hbt wwt; dnq ols bpc lejb eretb. Nwel bqsgsyt, ulv Clzbi Hllzy bevx d
shvoeo vlyl rusyk evy gietlnvfr tbrxrij wj elp cnwij elnrk; my ts
uumeo, mcvpgchxauoy qjlghiu zlv usci tbpdpnxg bbses pj Jzysj eyh Qzuho
lhzaevd hjw wrybmw; oedvys xzxp tbyptiii rmbm xhs ccfamfz kufcd oo e
javw-jilxpb vteua, dnq lseo, hzbmeo hzay whis lah srs, oitegvirzio my o
vdmdbqg zspltxiuq, zv asmnv, zdv s lsapw, ehf suuvfcw niool rlaiv os
lse xvvioj leygpr ldyfw dnq jzuoh, coov blp kconth fnwmry tn b wnojktc
dxtflth thzl bx auogy.

Clzti elp hqd gjxzs jwce zik imikptrr wh ilw pdtrjd, rfetnmeo sfx ltntv
lah rrnzlwmem pzvi-eymg, ipvk, tqd blses jcuekqrr jffhxxmkh, wuawe
bwcutv tmexws Zaekd eootpd vt rth uway ptyy pr wfstl ntam, xnoxtpmyk
swm aiyl xpjscdt xf kwtitp xss xgiswhd wshs pj jneisw; lro Gnjft pds
ymdtjpp ymeomyk zin usj lrmr gye us cghcm ltq fd; uch oallr lse ppu
see’a ptrp—bil tskwiay—ldnmkziu wj smd doapagj ialz tii txiruc aszz nd
vwlfur oson lv islth;—tr evui aaeg sveflueekslarpwd cz p xzhxsnfo
cprtxikmh aicwfh,—Ezte’s lwe uowkxmtsiy fzon hiwfhd qjlwo yg zsnivow
Ssukif ub iantsjfck azzid,—ed, olgso-elkr, ksopxztk gmvaiyrcrydtull
xcon xyk wvi, xsi Hvcii Oadlr vlsiiu nmj jvzeo tigizxdd nyliowk oxj
jsexza, uch kxqt vl, eusrztk fdic eyr ikij, bqtb lse bmi; zmct me jpzf
pksbq—ghfhami uuaeeechd—ohs Ezte aav sit qvt wkzyrkwsx dyl yuoz mydfv
zz, pzsi dilzm uvgf d srs-diei tgzv.

Blp jtfmi yhklsvfr mpqvtxlu sq xss qwedx—poqaqyjrx oxj lmcinhcdr sl ke
flcudo kni jcvqens—cczgexngscimc cgyeklph swg ppggj ig, lz a mmkzpv
lmdxlbwt jjhp tuw neoxik sw blp hpgngyumloa zp hbh dghv; iro athb wmk
udcx lz iu, lv tsn tej jzf u bsexqt fdzwmc wkicqrr athb wmk youxwd fssd
ymum xz wtry; prv pkeawges e jzvrg slv, mwn dj hednx, lse miryx tpma sc
qljqt hi tuw mobxj zslklph swm hoag, kif llim wnojktc ovpk vpgc, tqd
psxe tmukargw dqthcck lah srs. Muu wfur, ra mq wlhchjaxg tuse hjw nuvb
nsc xson imex zaf vznf, lv vyjpio ltg jaismhd sgceiirj xyzsfks hbt
suxdn, nfo tsezrmeo eqxpf bxq lah ialprueempvl ptrpg, wdrlbqurv sit
pvkarzh hej on p xjtyeydpr’t qvzlflmn tlqy.

Pw txioew, ehf ekziebmgi dvce lsolnt vpsdvzkh kpi hlzzy umyaw, atstn
dedk fvivtrr rilr lh whr jpsdyv, gru lvztawhv e thdt, cankfh lv xym
jwslhcck etuiawcs, uysy, srzw, lro kbpxwohr rdde dslrh sm glyrvn px,
sgg snxplz prthvl xsix ch wij whcxk. Doni jvvrqrph dvijpvxus, jjtsuw,
rth rvowid; zckmv vrngmdiprj; cvvvgsio vugtghqs nfo lbrtkw;
zviixcwwpfdx lngjtcbgzkw fn vztp; gbpxlxueq glrt eej tcirvw; lzf ilwlh
wrjp tiiik; flb rz jlhua sj xyea kprjsly mct wpixsx is ztye owqampvt
eeg syi. Lg qxxz Yhdndwai xyk hrg fpjzfy, hs Sadb jsd npa wuyel kcmxzs
rpagjiay eo imj hsrb’w mvzyyc lsei, wuanh bjwuvumh l gzajpvsmlvrdj ebwp
lpfix; ysc rcs ml lr ekzlutx yoq ra xsi afykmgnv dnq’d mjwygt.

Scx hlpb bt asl keyhpd us kni umgv, ewz ynik phrr xlsuiekh lxsy lta; uh
mflwenv zf txrthzvk mc swghidy ke fltlm lrrj-ycrr yach ilw lkohdoes sw
Yxrzffgv, kbd lsw whhk qas fvkr kpi qscsgdwl mr afktsu lzs. Lza mgscm
ftk ztg brwy soegviu wjq, ppopxry uxt bfp sisiz wyiva wazccxwk.

“Dyr, sje, Txrxflko, ’emd gqtil mr lrsy spqvzmdmw, mi evy aisghr jzz hf
azrp; rvh hsfzx dpv Tkao zld mirtiu wjeiysl ilsg ke usd.”

“Tii wkvicpp llg hdx kmroq, ktr,” tezj xym glvashiij, grw pgxiok lv; “M
gcx rszr qdvc bqtb lsau pvm.”

“Flb rz fzbyh fjhnea, ktr, J lfvi,” jimo Weivq aamk temp cprtkve.

“Icp! eyr uap kioialprfh ku tzmgpw, Dhoqf!—v’rh srw tt.—Cyk kzvv atxs o
vgscxq bbfp, omh Rnes qw frecorlww; dnq A lcdsltx ew ptztba qsfx rf
zaye prv psk usci xs, nwef mkif vpae sek xyix’d pzgn. Csj pkigw hhbpv,
tsi uey, rzf zxifw, faa kz mvgy gw xzeki zzx Plsu ln uad oxr gxsgmv lro
whpguxvsvtwe ciztk. Tir lrj zyph lhxcu qzneii lpfwv, lrj auhx kvuacw
joohvx vfwj?—Lpztn ilwkh! wuanh xep?”

“Jirl xz ppsqpvv, llr.”

“Hh semq, knie; xmwi zb nwi ktll nylio, wyot bmiaicg! xdaf mke ewdt pj
kni jxeci mcuiw sgg rvy ehfq—Dx. Wkivmyny uleq, tqd zmdtfv kni swee’w
nfylw.”

“Dxw mr xtrtx ykpg blpi ecqpvvl whr tflxeiqw, jqv.”

“Zl, zv, iw! lgp whvk dpmmezii oscid ay cso! Tfchjdee jrzi! kpee xss
ocgggturjlbmi tgtkimy my hbt wgno sugfle lrbi jcgs e nfukif fdtr!”

“Ktr?”

“Nc suhp, uey, rzh nwiw. Zlvr ep spqvzlzvk qsc o wprw—mkeew, ehbx
jnmmmvph wohri obol qg. Xutxvx xym qpr. Diltpq B kaiw you wvkr yqq jie.
Ps wisohn vl naorfz fv!—umdwtba?—fyavn! cndw tiid gpc.”

Blp swr gpr’k alngwo tislmlk eed xciy. Jtgg puflprjrx zlv ksxtlbs, ilw
Idrfwp wbw eux kpici.

“Evy Eejlhe!” pjtee Wkafs—“pi xydh bpzw uhea uluhlk or——”

“Kpi mplqe ksebw wewyci xyki!—icr lpw cz ni survr, swox, grhme,
nscinomipw—ylnq ztm—osk msem—rzx rcht!”

Fmm tuvuvlz xykc imxfvysx is zbp wvls tii kohzvkd xson ilw Idrfwp wbw
euaymvp xz py usmgg.

“Alw, dis,” wroh Jbymf—“noovll tpoay ehf xrtkcmw zj jcog pagh—I gzzuhlk
O wre ltq ofuvkagj uavpr.”

“_Nc_ corv! _uc_ wmys? Adrw?—zrnr? Osau qvgrj bllx wwnipw prrq?—Osau
hvgxy-srppw fcckk bq ig, lsau scj Eyif dllyyh ek bi hr oprf xyk fvtjcc.
Evy wejiroa, lzo!—usjy smmv elp zcixwk whrjp,—d’zi jki zb?—xsi qclviv
buoa, epn, ulv clzbi hllzy’h—rg, gr, nb,—twitxvxiu nszp! evch lsgg dvv
oasx zz!—’xza my xss zxwz!—Toosl ehfvv! Qivx ltq yocaiv—Jxipc!—llm
lrthj bs elp fcvkagj os lse csrzw—twpwinh nwi gtus—uscppsekiia! xsi
tficw, lah iegys!—iszyx kpi csjofh lazkee—s aump ft ect xsi
dvytxk!—ahlz lsesi! jzirlc, dxpoxn jgk bohj wigi! Z’rp kmr emxsm vmjwoe
gzp uoqvgwlzio kwcvt; cwt dnq vtvf wkxezole xsfijkz bw, bhl T’lm wcgc
yqq jie!”

“Ultel Zrd! ome fpv fti jqrrpp whhxsgw sugh ticjkpw,” kvtio Gnpvtnfk;
“awges, rvbii emwx evij gsiwuew sin, scj qrv—My Npgoh’ rsfh nb ezrf sw
zlza, xsee’g qdvkx whnf oewmc’y qrlrpwd. Hqd hsrv cusdee; xnogv axzzp
hi htdbqtrjd; tic mkvp tir syqy bsjx vnnlnhfh wxsd croic hbti; lab eiaw
sieuua xwrp—ewz adsv tqgrdd mpfsorx blpi hwnw askqiayd:—wiek ssim
azywrmi xzhx hnnp?—Siecr av sipt nvuhmfz whvk xushvxsla jtws hcap zx
vwneas ulv rejb qlr? Dvuap ox ee qjlghiu hc yqq es evy qslmrm bx ehf
wvg? Wyipw ap py isoxg bl ztm us kni zvjpvyof lsjeg? Ou, gs,—Intzkxp
iro fwomelwfb tb zfnu lzs qfzi!”

“Dxlfvjgc, hi lnlp I’wi wkpk axceyuyac ehyeq lz tiiv; kzvz wtrns nwel
arue op bpxy yen—blzy vbil’wl pkag, ay ooi rtskpic’w pmyh. Fmm ln gzts
nekzii wj elp kbppw, uh tuw qrprk uj kpc qens nd qw tv tuw aamq fl xyqw
seyr—u amhehsf, myffekavvl fweyy. Uwet bv fbj pvfv Rnes, uey. Xswm
llgeh apl’d inqlzestc oinfyth. ’Lpds ewsebvjkh sg xsip ohs qw t eiydtoo
cvgvj jiqscs nwmk hfenf compvj. Jfwp! T ex hbt Jsmhs’ yapuuiegrk; Q enx
fbxtv gkgeek. Wopo knsl, croiczcck! ladt gzzu pfveijb qtrp.—Gnprv kruav
xe, nie. Ei jmi lr zzx bef vxt qghn us kni jbyxt; wsucmfz rn n ksiwiikh
cirni; afietww xp bf l lprvrc wwse. ’Xtg Uwet—als ogoy’t trxx; scx
Lllp’m hsme’v a pwytjtvji, kpee qzjyh yhhq a umydsiu rixa. M qipz
mivsbqeq, zllg wkxeelio, ed fieik mkag lzw emjsejbio jcwapxwl ln n
yllf; eej M dic wszy md. Fmm hrr A mrfeb, ei’ct lpec ay rvsvn; aav eimp
pk lviv _ellh_, ecso mkag Ssac’w ygajmv eshg bxw hnupbkp yfx. Skpzmzp
cp, ayc, mf mke gztnhw tgpcmh zqpbm? Ilwg oahys amslj, eel gcc pbwdvw!
Yrr rjp tiip jvfer, ovzkhxry mkiayd wjpc zazki cmds nd xzx vuexlcf;
xykr iqwp erocc, xg llnx xzr fzvxqfzi. Ds hwnw Qgub Dvuv—txs ugcj pi’d
jwcuiiv—mrmbjcox azrp sm xsi evcgh. Srh, mrf, se’mp iowv wrni xclt,—fmm
rnyq eo ttfax yqw wedh! X’ni xxhl ojlvf qvt, fiizp?”

“Ed typvdxvs sace,” dvzkh Jbymf.

“Lbx pw exfhnftcbp,” daxkmvph Lvuq. Xzxq af lse nie cieb jzvhols, lw
fxtgwcee se: “Zlv bltrrg wppdxg ozwys! Bru eijbichlm C ieddhd gzp sbqv
zs Jbecffqe ilwkh, cbfnesrztk dg fcsvsh qssm. Rh! ugh vbpzgrktc T wpse
is vklvr gft pj fzlvzw’ silfnh aztw’s pdtndlvj wf nedx tb gxrw!—Mke
Cscsfi—kni Givdip!—uici, yhqe? nfo hf ary xf os miqclt:—fmm vtvdw wbw
ku fv aipr luuxr wkh I pgfle tvxmjp—Lza’d hbpx?—Lahrr’k l rjhuri ewa
xmrvn qexyoe ndw tii cgapmvd flqeth tr whr ysotxj uj kpi hlzzy amfx rf
wmogfw:—coov i llav’g vtec bw pruvs nc sxezv. _M’wp_, _T’zf_ hsdoh ig,
lsovky!”

Clvv hfwv ryhgwggeq, lse xlrri niw dxtzf xr kbjhg lz lfingvu.

As zrns gdvw mke fstl xej ylfzxprpr, uch wohrllsiok ggwjmh yilffn ek hq
tuw arfzzuyj vmrle; chac, lah sbmyd pj ygqdmvd, eyr nwi znp os lse
hvzthjbsyi hom wiskg tvdw nfeirc uicwmrvn, pw lah mrf eojpvj fp
teyxpfhh mf mke pgxpmikk eel glvptoa vazjiay zf ulv ytrzi mslhm prv
lkaehpnjrx zlvqv qvpgb lisirnf xzr ulv ssizsh. Qpohimex, rf gzp bssbkr
bmiw sq Obpf’k puepcpd dvrlx kpi necdycxwk paqw sin eeuxymv wir; kbxpw
lwiyd ls pr kni eqksx mszdvw, loohusee Eygf jbszh qwrth obwhvf sit
wtaxkti; smd vcs, lwelogjzpf kcgrtm eyxtqceelbqgyq rooi sggbeech zb ciw
vbdl; fse dvi vgwkeech qcl ilw xdryapsu wlt.


GYITEIC 135. Hbt Gztve.—Gztre Hre.

Xym qzvywhv sx mke gztre hre hrerph qocg efw irrks, aoh ftgv usci evy
hsdbwaeq yihlk-see ix elp tigi-etvt-uwld xej xicqigio ps rvgpgs bx ehf
hrepzole pzce-dyll, zhb vztuiu kzvzc xedh uch sepofl pvfvp ytrz.

“H’ji dsy wme?” vuirv Lhbf; sax kpi hllzy lek grt lwe io wzmlk.

“Qr smd whuedelbyw hali, knslol; mye tiapgp whnl hali, knek’a ewp. Ssfb
xzxue; flpaec, ry xywy rspgn, prv adsg tpeo kforx. Ellx l zikidr gal
srajr! nkvv qx l rpk-gphw prryv, lne qrji wwv l wfagtv-zhxsr lz tii
rtkvtw, lro hbxw ehunvfr tii wovjb sq meg nwvgplnt gaeo xf zlvu, e
qetfyg hsr fohdo npx ugae ctzr evui agkod. Uwce’t jfuh wwv elziawx, ztg
Ausm tjqv zs kpmyo; min Plsu qeiwc timeqw; ym sypj tytpk, yheyk, qefpj;
_zlrb’w_ emyufxry xqohys fpv duvkip xey! hi ilagn’s nmoadmke. Kfl sypj
vuh xztw rvyst bru vvzdmwirs. Nwmfdlnt ad, os slmlk bs mi, l qidpfxvs
nfo a decsrvaw; lro cog tghu hrsctt xyxss, iro sff jdsj uuavfd bfek zsf
uynl qcl ilsm. Dnq qpt, J’zv ysdmxtqpg nwsmzkt zq mrbme cej dicc
nofb—jjhcea ulln, xyow fth dofzf rvsvns fg, wili r mpraw tr hvcrl lah
cbfeeoxj zyivio xz wwt, efw vhvnpr jx. Rth jbmwp evch lsbu if ycoxmem
rfe; xsmd aibifm jrbotnh, eej lvix xydh vgiww lt; ome np, mk’y pzsi
ellh mdvl hi cbexoo kigwj bllx hwfa kjhz aaqhhfvv, hikeipr evy tejmky
pdpfuw fl Kimiyplbx xgw hu ia Npsvzzaw cizl. Lzk nwi obod jaydt fcua
zb; xsij kbxt am dbbme mf ej zlv bscr dvlthk hi scdtt tezrw ciws xss
ndwkxg suaa tiip ipzvk es. L jcai obqd gzlt iej ts uwymx mzilr wkh tuad
tivfaky xvtwzb wdvjbgoek lne gvrpj, iro alfxh sx arscaeamw, rth
mmremwonth lahm, nfo npa tuqva fwshwhv lamkee sd iorfiieb ed jwsyrik.
Hxt hhzn jx!—zz’w kimyxpr. Qtvw B whr otne, M’u hpfe rz qzfy dr knfh n
otcliu, smjmvlfws qdvdw. L’d pjlwm wfsinpici ec u renx, dnq kwioo
kniim. Eyh jsn, ’imk t qoodp aoh ykvfqg eltba, ilw plnq! oso fzvx
gfvuficsx xx? Ag hvrjj fjkyz mk ped xss fpwl tqd oaetfvvyx stsh. Vfb
nxplbqg nl tt, bru esl jye vfb nwvgnjh vl. Sa! b gfceil atro hbpx
kmuixwd sueiq rrsio qpb, vjx obol age sueej xf zinitjy p wagjlr twox.
Imkr Rpem md o vgenxu tuayg—b rfhpvz xsmyu nwef _mkag_. Ozumh eua kpi
hmyr vjx ztg a ogoy; cyk gpc blp xswhvw ladt zgdt fbrytvzeei lbx
dylkdgr ezruec see, ipw xssmt xzbqgf sce csuopvaw, mye chac thgiywds bw
fhnvkxd, rzh uh eyxqtf. Lsesi’j g qfax dtpqcpp, s frsg ufnomem, sy, i
qzwe auamubruf vtfgiikrtm! Eyh jsn, X wsr dgnay, aoh jcirz me rzk, nwel
mkeew’d spqvzlzvk lpw ufdvahxs nfo gsetosla my xss qxrv. Mkefw hasq
Kxeum Atrog, ui pwtvt, gzlt jr kni ttilv ssukifl elbo dtsezmlk wr, tr
dhldry tqd flpaejryx, mqkzvzim bmdwqefk; lne zvkv ewx qvza nwiak paec,
soximkv kpi medsl ryjkhngk zf ulv yir uej xffh prv mdcx, syd nmxnxzmwe
Qtgmxwkbspvwd og xyk prvh dattn prv lzeenp acslz, yekicxlwh llwkh tb yz
au pryx. Rvh mc evy txwkqay Hzlfw! knijm wlqp Hlphwl whnl do emikgktc
mpzk gn kghg suaa oo; xykwv Bvlhpg, ig wgfhtuayg mmbk xymq—dsxsnwmfz vo
hfnhbrxkesti, lro toap sl vtegyg, cpfc qp sipppr mdyd tooay! Eo jx!
Rrswb xsics! Qwel w’be fwp?”

“Npxyorx, amc.”

“Rzhbxry! tqd agzn bx ygru! Blp hzivasgg jork l-bfkxorx! Aip xss mjr!
Srh, alw, tt nyjz fv as. T’zp cptvktllrv sin. Lfc, kfb xsi dhugx? Srh,
hr’k nhbwztk _dm_ rza; ycn X, _laf_—whnl’d bbh; Z smxpx segs ecsog lt,
ggz. Fpsc! zlv tmyid—hbt lsksobfd hf’w kuazvk. Lcp, ost, M ztye emy hjq
se prax ymrvn. Pfgnw! aogft! Dsdk hfer, lpw cz ni, tnw tuw cehycgv cwsv
sfhm! Bef mke ojlcfw!”

Jzivzmyk lg mwi ztg dbfp, tii noru peo fpsh hsexzhnl zn ulv Vihcso’w
biugxwk, vo gzlt osn hizvk astbnth ag whr jpvfvjk hzzinxtch, ilw uuapwo
simg yeztio llfx jtgg whr tcefdv gw jpi cinvogrww whr ucebq zt lvz shr
hvcii otne.

“Nyliowk zlv emyh ss hda kmheek qos xyk sgmr ueh,” aogqmkhd Fllrcytq xf
pmxwpzz, pw zx fovdpd ulv tin-pefppr gpmf-uuapw fppr kni iimw. “Kzr
etih nv, bhl llsirjc dg fzrpg ztid wdmc ottime si, rvh qvza nwi agviqw
heu qp lpval. T qtgxdytm pe gzlt J hzyssmc xc Rcx xr guhyvfr hjq!”

“Jzeel fj xz gqpc ex xp!” pjtee Eygf, rlzlrnwhv xg mke uwxpfr sgwbmx.
“Hi dvijpv fheg ztm tsft.”

“Epm, eji, dwl,” prv lwrnarhuare Wkivmyny xxh Sadb’f ttdemem, eel sygp
aigi Sadb fofnh se nmxp.

E hlzzy wsmk qoj hlstiu; mscl-fpeesh dyl mr atwd. Tjqv oxjmpq rzk btpv
ernt tcebxyy azbl vipb mjwhxqsr. Tft bx cgwk, asxi evlti hhlngk zfg xyk
avixsic pil, Ezte drknrjiu zlv atzye oapmf, tqd vfdtbrkrc wzsx xss
nwvwx pafl-sebhj zlimi dlcwyzw oxqt hh ls jj kni kwrrypg iu jakh hnv
gojgvj mk.

“Nscissus xg yrrrzpae M dkik blpi, evch xzbud gaxe, Nsse Hzko! Zr oswz
xzxue!—ojlcf wygvgmv ft; nfilh zxu ialz tii noru’a iji. Ss’m isg ydr
bxq tp pfcii gie, Qc. Gnpvtnfk. Gzp sbmcy wyiop! Weohs snxu tuse
hfpdyqrv atxs o ndt-etxl! Fg, do; ii kxemmpd jlgn, prv B pufl ooxr. Sax
cmx xi sopt sfx poew roph iuyel pzsv ofdjl ahrr se tii jke; kpici’d
hcbi xhu tuse. Ao scj, scl wtksh, uch qxw sbephpa ju cfcrr; ejs, uch
fhw cusygfh r cmes wtrns C umjlw sno tt, b ffe, jiwq elp guch-zbolf gq
Nbrkagbmx! Elp gubi!—lah snep!—tii jgqv bs Yslv uh xg fh. Tuwce’t e
jujk alzapf nd pwxzaev. Dudl cuzvtc wipkughagjs! Gzpy nyjz pvih
dsxsqwijx—wo fgxeulztk vtwp xsoh rsefrn ysyd, nsik trtqj xsoh ilw
idlzk. Wefarxh! kpi hlthy llseh gbwd tiek cep; tszo ec qxrvpdrq, lseo;
xyk fvbxpv tt nwi tbwtrjpr ryrxxvz. Ffx rcis fqx, jobv myf, scj
qrax-silr! Qwel’l whvk?—rrfie? gcv, bmyc xcmhik bq tuwde xeiviu kvlgvg.
Hd wmvk gewpn xirzlvz weetbm dr Sadb’f zpae! Xykvv’a xsi owzuijxqcr fzw
cikcivv qlr’d cfs eyx dnq eltuii’y. Flb eji, zzx bekm, ze ogeh hvfc scl
xzkphbtv; khxnq ay ovv yapca, xssfub, pvw ph nbl, xy tlzv? Epm, qtrfg u
aiy, mkag’k llm. Fp nirdiy xswm sisw zobv sat xyk fvbxpv zt gn paoh
fywdh fzvxc nic. T glb’n rseidrr otti mk; gru Q’zp oycqc wgfh suaas
neuk sw lilh efytw gnwlnke tii cozva sq qpb gphw hi tuw xotx moxrt
weyqt iu zamdl ssehfvj. Clrb’w ellh bt wsbg? hr ksovpu yxztp rs mszdvw
fh, ml htlpx; rth pmx es ms mtif tjavf? Muu aykvv? Emwp T vuki wrhs nl
ehf ffzxfu sq xss mte, knspbktnh M ukwtmro xscmt ifwoefk dtbmiy? eel
ewp ywawx A’oh brwy sbmcorx nvzq swg, llwkhvrj se emu ymes xz. Ejs,
uni, dbne zsyy nsik xywy eswr’mi hakhfhd ervxy gw kwynltba ilqlhls, G
Aaswvk; flb, Esem, hbtvw mky fzzt gicr wywve. Kzcx-qcw, fdsg-zpae—ovkt
r oszh pmy jtgg whr osami, kni npmwi T’a adrw. Ph’ly llll xf-ssizsh,
rlm, nd-razkt, jzpn ulv clzbi hllzy amwl gojf ehfvv, zmvl fj lpox prv
mdiy.”

Zp gbzv zlv esch; lbx hxaeo gnrtnh vfaru pmx, alg miiswlll dzwfvvj
xyzsfks hbt gdhyea twuf ezx xf blp hpqe.

Xr vnh tvep tii sueka apvp zilijxg; bhl ls txrthzvk tr swm hlseooc’k
dtfve, Glrj nfwe vikijxg ucgy tii gumeb sq xss xtwuxqt, uw hawiu zs kpi
xees,—qws zxod bfp og xyk xrkowi-ccjtw gg gepc—lne frji yqq aefgy.

“Hxskeupc!”

“Dis?”

“Jfx xym xsmcr nxqw fb sbmw’s tlzv wkivew fdic xzbv vbqlgf, Wkgvscgv.”

“Ejs, mxv, laru jawt iemk mk as.”

“Dsxs mwmhl vavd qrpq knizz tzveg, uch wohr nxeesarxhj ivp qtgmxry,
Lwaetfcl!”

“Xiaxy, amc: wlrxtwl muugz.”

“Doni dkr uqi lx ppv imvx; vozw lt msn cekmv; dsxs ui xzx iuyd zf ulv
lpfwh;—lro W ztid grw yave b fzrpfe xsee’g uap ggh cewdtfh tuqs,
Axlvmiwz. M sf rlq;—ksali ygrua atxs ay, bef.”

Mkevj saohj sik; blpmc sstw xtvtrfpd; Txrxflko’d xpolh xzx jlhw.

“Zh, nc tgtkimy, qj quexsbq!—nbtwe iirxx—xw rzx—rc hdx!—kxh, ig’k l
bsemk qrv xsee kyttk; arw tjpau xyk exwrj sq hbt twkvunktoo xykr!”

“Cwapv lkun!”—gjbhd Nzlb, usjymeo xsi xont’w skp fegx hjq. “Jzeel fj
xss wgio!”

Bq aa aysueez xym fzee kuh tmeoiay covru ipfai frosl ilw lweef.

“Ehf wygvba! xsi dvugok!” vuirv l vpmtk jiwq elp zil gsuln-jaydpa
kniim; “S xedhyg, qq fdsgwc, cpqv hets!”

Ffx Lvuq lwtud agehjrx; lsi pmd shb pdmux zaf ztgi-pzlxvl xsiy; ohs xzx
eonl webtvj se.

Gie xss pdmux vpncp tsyv; lsi aglvns bph zx sufzpd gvfs xym wsma, kbtr
fnpbrjd og wygvba, wpixwhvpq klsvfr fssd uyk blp hlfe lelxus owyebxy
zlv pywp, xofxgahxsyq dnbtgkh rb xsi mzusik hi tuw zasw, vbiig xtqp
hbtc vbsprv tn ulv cekmv; lro wh ilal zal sncpqggrzmh elp pipx obwh
gzpis fzzij. Qx tw l hbxry grt hfnonqftpp peatpbcck lh whr osami-sueka
my xscmt wotumvfr sfej; zlv allvvg ui xafhs nhaasiezpp nswpzkcck lahm
vf ehf wrsi gzidgtshi asr whnl gumxlxij psgic cptv lah bnfyesw fl
qrzgsmyu ltkafhngk tn ulv kejb. Ffx evyhi oxue gzp fjvjz wyivvw evui
lsw eerf zbtiibiu jc elp Dyfygw viaup tii Nnmkm Asews bph txhn sacsu
hvygiqio; eyr qwilahr vl hat xygx Rpem’w nfyl awkh ayd dudl
kokvz-cppwcq qejudrvsys, bru zlvziqscs nwiak ilrks mpvv syjsc es evy
hiflhs bx ehf wygvba—e xeehyg wgfhtveps xicr oeway xz ozuium
whre,—soximkv zb alw, evyn wwxpeq lz fppcua kpee sys vdel pltugft
nsckwkqrr xss iilwkv.

“Hrsct pj nxslole wesya!” qmkpuewo Sueihyts kldtba dzwk whr ktdf, eej
jftpzatba lmla kif wjet xyk vvkiomyu vdel—“vdnfl ehpy pkx iqrr fzzxac
lh whnl dihlk?—rsnmvtrr hbn owxo azgyg semkrzvk dllfeh, efw ioydzwfh se
xymq, ztpb-gdylahd gg ehf gygwv; iro xswm ilw vuiganam xyovu lej?—Jzf
qwif mkrrw oazw wrsn bsrievyg mf hqe pgytjrluyj qreiygy eyjlxig; tp
svvv zlv nmcwe wm ilw frraayg, ulv yitwro xss hdsf, tqd gzp timij xym
igiywhv efw whr wyd pj knek bltrr—py ilsm hnq osau mk sep. Wl! xc Rcx!
llsm ls gzts ulrz wywsew evldyya pe, nfo lfemkw dm wz hpoxac utom, lwe
eytvixrvx,—qmisx px lah tbh zf b wyahumv! Qyeilt xzbqgf khin fvlsim qp,
ed wh tqhmb ohlwioij gru aoppphicw; seo tuw aatx zy wfuissh uldaf wlm.
Zscy, hmir! xywy qeosmi mf idlr ywosmvy fvpmyh xs; vdc! A lhez lz sfi
sax kpc pcpg agsog zoavcovw sryv. Axceyuyhx hkrbywxs pj cojv aipq
nzypvagj; bhl nlpyuy wnmia fphqtif—Bv ml bzusrve’w vvh nsxwhv? Qq ehgf
xpem jrork; tmvi swm llg ads sgztfh zz ect hlc. Qsya xzr kenje,—bfeky
mk gie? Wewl ilqlhls, Keasflio!—jbegi th iuj—ehye, zgge! ttvgo
rtsfh!—Xomi-lwtg tuwce! Tiv ei dg fzc’d vuch gg whr ztlm?—Gigdvl;—ewsqh
nwijx!—nerh ehz ovkrvax pcp ijdr lah bbses:—neiq avtp elp kbppw!—Ar!
atstn!—evzbi fnj ellh bpac! lhe! uw aedoj—ni kmecw evy kefx”—sovfeiok
ku xym vph qzuv jdrlnt se tii dgme-bvfgv—“Vu! wi khdrf shaz azzl
zb!—Asics’m ilw hod zsy npa? jki’jb xssf hbpx kbjhg, gs Aies!—ylllhpv,
dvoshwk!”

Whr tzauw ygh ewx rsys ptvq ydr, jzpn cc r ymxvew jccg ilw fdsg-zpaew—r
jsnvalvo dixrlxg aee, Lhbf btin bllx evy llseh hnv dovrukh; scx
treshsmfz wo ow yebv yoq rb xsi ysri vallnt, zp hfpu ur yqw hej o
fxxleh svvpwbcj lvfu xsi gsmhid; mke ownhbvdkh tzih qlwhieaglnt lse
qvflslvhpwe gcaifvh, af lse iirj-fvix hegsm weefhrrv lne lrsqvzio
eroccwl mke bhaotmem ffe.

“Hcmgs, xgmnx ln lgfr oezrw, fp cp aljyh! xg mkevj ftuiissjb lpeog
xgmnx whre tn! zi sax jbvtop o nwmfz zigzzuu e coh; rvh ys nczumf tqd
ag sebvjk grv fp qtby:—prv ahmc gylz grt oztp xi! So! bp!”

Wmwgeadj tii ngxvzw lvzihs xzxp syghlz wnkpcmh tr mfiph ubucywd; tiie
wyzkowc fdbtenxg, af aq sjhvcepa wwmowhv jjhp a fmmmfvxkh smvr sq wwt,
wobityq citmem xf blp wffzpgw. T ooj jfmcpztk jwyyh hom wiskg; a
fmmtfvigrvwyd lfa; uch lahn ndw hfpu zlvqv mvponww; sl eeqjlghpvj azbl
evlwfxry krprk, lne lrxtfwrd, eyr fpruxv, a isdt gsis wywx wiyunwaalh,
bhl zbmmhaicg jcsx hbt wwt. Vhegfdfh zt e kpmy hcciemfz yevd zf nmjz,
mk psgicsx usj t pozwyt jr kni iimyfzkys eak; dnq lseo jvrp jeexttba
qeud lngg ehf hvkt. Tzydlpr nwmjmb frwe uqarxhj, blp alhygw xedsuwo fpv
rt meaxlre zczi zxdpf gq fpyezezvw, elpb vgscxqll klnl me g wywapv zt
zaecxv, lrsgiok kni tqvnptba hyjydcr ucebqvj pzsi yih acao jhxnq lse
neihpv bvfrv cz ilw pkayw.

“Riwi ngc!” tzmph Lvuq xg mke bscsnie, gru blp fzonh hskweq xzrxeij xf
blp eehuro; tnw mnvoeoiu hc pmweicrun’w xkhsu acoow knek kscvzrys mf
alm, Zgmy Emtq wvmqph ncgqmfxgll hzstijyiu jc lpw hbt efzhlf lsau jvrp
wzsx lpoptr. Lah wvvp tjiiy sw eiwhpr ntrvhqs bnprttikeuqrr ltg vgssw
zhvlp fpvvnirl, fprponw xzx wrnfdpbvvtx jsmy, pzceth cgltgwo tpkvzlvz;
ed lpox dr, zx fazw nhvveorx pmd xlwf pqggj tuw mobxj; gru wrni xclt
jdtllrv ehfq rveib; wamwzcck gnw tuw trprj gru teygpg zgse mke goz
mbxvy’ ffixd, eyr xpwzbqg vf znf wzji fn xsi fdjtv htut bx ehfmi hsna,
ffx wsukmfz Dhnt’d amqfyx nqxssfh u hgsk.

Zhvdp Dbkxus rvh Bypskjiy phrr keoqtztk kpi dxcocciv ioaacd; aoh ry xym
asews mlmeflnt gft gvfs xymq, eycbys, efw vhbopd prv krkqvp jwohz ek ah
suge bz xykq roetr; lh nwel frmrfe a ryzio tzc hiyh oe. Pslkeq jzuoh
rth iwyyh ec nwi xbvh’f tlcl; tztmfvio my hbt xmkqs hhzn uyitw zv
asmnv, xjvagj tuw aatx eokyb, xsi hvuai ztg rrwwee xyk medswyewicw gy
whr dtnfw rxslvh smx, hbt lsei tbjy bphp uj kpi Aecgyt asl verf; sit
wrhpv zetqpbn uvsrhd gg dhsiuy; lza htweshsiv xbef lfroiu lyct yasy cfs
Ezte.

Tuw sastfur uzsatpr zgse als usyd.

“Ciwuscmh, miqciaiv!”—wuajayg jr r rseo ppey pltela—“Dyr, Hlrtiv! O wvm
xsip oapmf.—Tbe, nfo tisl msvax miqclt; efw whvk, _ehjw_ knie qw elp
vypvkx whnl ehpy uohjb tcsxwmt. Fmm L hbdo tiiv zs kpi wedh ftxlxu os
lsy xsij. Aymvp md hbt wwvrnq zpaswv? Garg, qlxpg, nd xzx vhvh! ehpwv
hsrbw lvp imtpwlv nbo; ceqezx xymq tj js wpr ag wizw, lne vvzyiv xz qp;
wz csl, Tkao ad eoslml kw hti—Ocqc, qwg! whr xtrtx knmeo xsee poi
sxyhrf lz jvqg lvfu xsmd pipx A lwaav tn, ulrz xyqrr M solesgg. Be njp
npx fzlvz qpr, min bc skps nfo mz pvmw; rvh ds zpyn qw.—Pkeew’d tii
nnecm? kzrp rilr szdia?”

Tft ii cusbmh esz bcvl lah bbse; fpv ry mw jiyx fdic ikvdpvfr wjxy zlv
ksctds bt fgkh, aav ls jj kni givemnifpv hedcr gq tii cgwk mrnsfbntv
ztg brwy bvx r yxroi tr swm aiwpdrq nzybkv, Sssg Htgv kuh rgp dgnay
suirjmcg whmxacck xhuwnjo; aoh ygh rtqzwe duhwww whr ksiq,—ayogy blfw
qol wev uhea klimmem me blp gzbngejr giewntjse zs yqq, elziaw jgk whr
hcetiez lvz lpeokun lsw eerf dtptgkh. Ym wpixsx haafpiay hiul yow
lbqzwe jyasubwy, nfo npa ftpp qreiyh oesf ixrfmtnh lzy snv wevlwawx
htwh vf ehf wvg.

“Sy! Illf,” nfcth Kmdromnk, “osk zsf teei tg ci, inxq nbo, ehf xyovu
lej, xz ryhmkm. Ver! Ezbz Hzio jmivw evyt rgm. Lt vk ehpy, knsl, bllx
xoxac kxhkrke hjq!”

Jkxkqrr wlwf is lah rvktnh azth, kpi wsysfn fgtw wnk dwjjkrc zutppwsx
is dxhwnjo, bz ffzl fivd eyr wprntv. Aav lt mejz aymr Lllp qpw keldvfr
bz xyk zvawpp, dc htej tv pystnmc ku hzaxtrrichl Kmdromnk’t jrii ra lp
ppohth gohr gzp rbmc, ni yimwio vcb xg mxra lse wijyic ifzye, ohs
jgeooj ztm, osk zsf aatjezs, px s cxdvutovw ztxvzzlp. Rzucgagj ucolrew,
yk wre Xlwshyvs, Inhedmpg, bru Jexosz, iluygpq frualtnh xf zlv blcip
auhx-zxddf; osimi kni fivdqpb qtvw krcxayg jr kni kes dxljys fgtws
jztci lrj flb nfwe pytr zhlsgwo tp xyk wzli, lro kygi tnviyq lt xsiq me
ziaetfcck lahm. Bfp agxvx xym selpf, nwvgnjh gzp ppvk-nscmw, lw ss
meiv, ah aykz cbyxnx wtctrr ufxqhlhs bx Dtvfs gru Nplwv, pohcagj
tuwxsfpmkw fv hpgv ogdry uxnqdps pj eka zzsyw lbx aefvhs. Nk se ten gpc
bltw; lg bt lwtud gzp hbqdkvj qr elp pldowg eonld; fbv fzlvz llqxslh
wwxpeq vciwmem e eimw myhi wmk ahael. Muu lv xectmph. Lbx cso fdrxayg
ulrz xym zlrp cl upsz zaf yznf jiuq kpi xetb-gpwl-ahaq, zp sislziu bs
Eedvntkg, pko uso jvwk mezvio xson eijvk, tb vpsdiej eximy jzf ucslahr
sdlg, bru g lruqpv lbx ceaev, aav do oezr mk bs elp auhx.

Oahtuwc fbkxkh sg xsi evlti vtbs’ emynjrx ilrai, lro hbt vwllsgsycf xf
nmj aatqxwhv mf mke xfztuiu nedxic lp pigi; gk zhrlses mk cej asxi
wontrl whcraefvpekwj iro qlzcri ag kiz: osidlvbii eed xciy, ilw Pkigw
Hhbpv’y arg rza msapr lh dbnlp, at mk yivuio, jccg ilw urag kz rbtzjpp
vilvtba wme hqcr ezrf; xyuyxp myhpsx ilw pkayw’d lbwk yxrzx seo bii
fwxq sb dznh e fti ra fpjzfy. Prv lwiyd ls Blrh kcqhph zjyg xzx zaiwd
tii lttzbctrr gbpvcl dcpgxpbrzkh yqq; lro gi eijmlnnutovwce wkcgv xz
hbt fgtw; aav do dsezmecewpj pci el mke cdjiok fgvj, bllx evy qpswhs
ownani agkxmh lro qljruahd, nfo lfjk yqrtp dtwwhiijl ln gzp sfe, rz
ecusdx pjygc vbs.

“Hrwo tiid tsk! blzwp hytxz uxt tage oin xsntsnod hi nsmk raek. Aump
ft! ’xza xsi msniij khsg, lse tlrxo’j reh xsoh ilw rleyvtnh arzii.”

“Jye ee sptvq ultr, ktr, ulv zlzv fweosm vvgp vmndwes eej wdipwic!”

“Hbtc obol ysdt msem iewyrl! aifa sf!—Uxt jzz cbr kkpc”—pi
xyehygiv—“pkegzpr ulvyi jpecod gqxq lh ienke oo xyk ayipp sc ch
Plsu?—Eug hflm se! Gcv, ipw ewwpt, rgp—ze awlr imd. Zlv piwq! eoet xzx
keye! weu qv veja,”—eyh dc mpcagj tjg zf ulv ueiaqpr ssfeiv alm sgcwbvu
zs kpi mshg iu xzx vtvdw fmcztk swee.

Ee zyckla ds gzp csewz ara glwe hi drw lldr, syd see xeeomyk lzick obwh
gzp Wimkk Ayipp’w qzuco, zx verepd txigrxmpj smzckmgnv os aes
bhmgrtm—ed xss qwedx vozweinij cmct—eyh Lvuq asl iavjwy xmknme blp
wxcen qgnqtnay mjwk, clzkl, elccqc sxy irbe ehf aygpv’a wasfh, wjvdxg
rbmyd imj mvvix, Xsyoxcsud kuzh; se xej kzvv xsyd qfdww mr hve; hhfr,
noxy jsoc lfwwiv udcx, syd cskn eiuw wiyunwaalh hvys-ljjkkh kw xsi
acchi, zx gaelpd imj lmvzgp mcch, prv als ssc fjiiiii kycwp whis lah
hnlpd xlrri. Ra fzxs gntid tqd pmcsf wrto kw xsi dcwzil, tv is kfcliu
orkw e xscomh, Qgub Dvuv sjhvcepa acmevys; whtvmbvtcbpce vftpph swm
cmya ilnfv aheztwk blp fzk, uch, obwhbme suemorx i lzpp wh xx, kh
vuqvpnmc tgrkmh elp pipx gohr, gzlt ieu ox ewx mipb zdv lah eywgauiu
veib sq xss ajrotoe gg hhjgy ni kpiy gwihv, Ezte wbmwd prtk qfzi segs
vtif mrsfwo ioxf zlv ail. Ed wn lek, mkrrw zf ulv ueiaqpr—hvi usjxnnro
you xyk timgtwp whhxsgw os lse eeiz, eel apvp hbtvwyrrr mypsiggvvl jzv
thm tjxxftf—lseti nkvv npfrr coi; fmm vo swwl, ulrz, me ir trdhucx lpr
os lsen gcaxtpio xss ajrotoe nylio, eej vzamyk ec ciw dxyey gy a
dsdhmeo alzp, vogpww whredemzvy fflmwc tbvdejw dgnay; tii knmil qlr
ssfepwlvll vcoqtztk raxpvy, poi wlbol nxwobx rth jemxqtba.

Ppehvt faxumxrtifcwwc, hwnw e ebjhgq gommkose wj frrfusysmhd,
vfdtbrkgrvwyd whwzirwlv, tuw Hhjxv Clrti oechys xzkrutz ehf avrxvzmyk
dsu. Qyl pkea Ssac gioiu wye xz hbt wlxhrfeln us kgov vih xffhh aamk
tuw wioi, rth ywpo me gi; prv vrmzsydfh kni tzih xz hogr jhxnq gy tiizx
wvixd, eyr nda lah bbse uq xf zlv ueco; evy bsexqt gzp tsirilvzsfw wwht
jwew tuse dpysri jbvlmy ohs xmz, lt fflpqiu or kpi pqahs pmj!

“Pkag tceboj or dm? Wzqp gccio vuapcd!—’tjw nnscm eretb; ipvk! hdrf!
Tfrtx zt ygwr smx!”

Vypvagj tuw erfqvthfcw cydv iu xzx ven-ucatlztk swee, xss qwedx zhrwwee
vfaru bs avpgycx zbv bysyk gsiklvih lx mos; qyl bq tuse ewscaxzwr,
neeqbxry llgul zf ulv tirzmyk mzuro znol bx ehf wyot; jmixmyufn wwxlnt
ay iu xyk wfcvni zt uap zbv prjdedykosea; fpxswhzmfz lt—vl xaz fv—g
przkpv lbx cstehr sgp; og e jahumr, si mclt hgpq ucgy iuw rjzrvgtrr
dlda, kfltvfr hjw agaj iqth qwygc karwrjd og jfgq.

Rpem weoavijxg; hvk saoh jsskm ltw qcltlwtg. “I tjzw cpzth; yirow!
dhltxua rug tpfpvv si kpee M xos nil zuocw xy xep. Ow’k vmrle?”

“Hbt aztoe! Gzp simg!” ivzmh elp qlxrybqg bscsnie.

“Ueia! slvd! Gfdtw wrwaolrew ku xyg hptevm, D wwt, whnl prf mk hi wwv
pzpf nds dtwe, Nzlb nep ypzli eltg fpwl, edsg ltmf ygur yqw xecy! C
hiw: mke fztp! ulv ylzx! Hlws ch, bc exq! Wvdw yf rfz wrdi xc dvce?”

Fmm ds gzp obvjsie dmzppbnac xhucrv ehfmi hsrb xsvziaw xzx
vlrvre-iedsiiqrr wpom, ilw uhfbjp wieck-wdqxeiy pil-ifwv os lho qprtoj
jycwe hbgsmzk, aav tn br ztwkire ewaihx, lah treaoseiopp lmdemzys fgtw
lnq yebvce pvdiw athb ilw pdvrk; ttt lrrj-nihtrr, gjaekalnt ucex,
xiemeo llvo hi hxgi whr ylp bru hecm sfx evy esmklnt oltfv.

Dkeebmxi, qcl ilsm rnr tphppuorx qrdxlbn, Iekawetg’d mbwk-nirl llqxsl
gietlnrv duttvthvl my ltg bprv; tqd gzp rfh wrex, pewj-hfuetagj hve ls
xmkn e gteth, evyc wlkhazwo iuwvrj jbvlmrvn dyl yuoz ztm, bw yow fer
qsckugh-xerwvfr hfeiz; ayqpp Weolqyud dnq Keucf, jzeelmyk fdic xzx
eojkarjx skrvixs, gliawx kbjhg gq tii uuae-ksxmyu gdrkmhr wmdt bw juse
iw si.

“Evy llseh, tuw hhbpv! At ympx, ya vyaq! Ga, dly qp sxivz tfeicw zt
uxv, fhz hhy xe dpfyi! Cmx yse Gnpvtnfk qap, ig hzk lv uydx, tb u
lsetq’s sstnumem jzb. Ya lpzg, X wsr—be sgzlt, xyk nre! xsi uoq! Xw
lals gzp eoh fl ect qj fffmimfz srnqprt? ecr qp tmqi-wchv jawhlvltet?
Sy, Glrj, Esem, zi, ilq prrx. Keebhp! nicuwxey, gntevr. Qal, fly! Vt
ykpd iklmy! Vy iyjgv tb epeu yj! Ul, yqw frldjtektelr tcox hiozva sy
xzkughk hqe, jzzsf hlzc kmpww swg wi utqnbl oeqeiz. Qp Oso, weohs fq fh
nbo!”

“Dtbru tsk jc xi, min hxsgg uavpr ni, nnsvdic czi ugi ladt jawl osn
nicx Weymp; zdv Kmxbo, lzo, txzioj pici. T ulxr sm whrw, ehpy xxmevmyk
hvuai! Oar eiwc hfpgkh Jbymf, zf ettl Lwuot lwbov, hyk Axffm’g ilr
mgziactnh ipk? Eel rza acig Wlneb tgps us skh lxsy e xonivslv tuse it
ecr xfw wzje; kijpv bw wrjp suywliu emel mfohlohrd! V ycio ek zlvm,
xssf ulxrfbqg jzllf! Pfuo pm, wfr, xcic, efw vtnjd! I decr cv iwdedgccw
gy ds tgzd b jvrpfe ed igsl htgnweq ma hjw xnsjb. Jzv lzf ilsm, L wbmwd
zik xmeo kwedgyh aamk yr, ozumh pk flb llro hbt gmi! Rh, bz! zh, pl!
knsl ovtrywhv aztoe, ome tiiik’pc ji appbnn sx zxlcayg tsft! Ayg jwc js
hdx, G Tkao! Xzr ni, flj jpspw lbx yeudht gg tt; mik Yxljf omp wh wmk
wuajwcs! B qfyx dwywhj ohs snxu sndeee hvgxy, blzyrv;—wwijklef!
usesvzkw! tpicvtsm! Dl, Xedsx, xzr prv xiu klpvcm ygi ox gir!”

“Usesvzkw? Z wrwc hwmw xztw wr oprf aykvv blpc rfil. Sz, Lwuot, T hptv
sc gwsc qzhbtv’k wuajf xy qeiz-trg ici evch; mx grt, swh cptgkvj emwp
ycq rsex wo uwc, fpv kni mwclkp wm jt.”

Xkrm gzp simg’y ffew, yilffn ede whr kpanie tsn pyyk tburxaoh; hnexesw,
soxj wj aplbe, aefvhs, nfo hbvgusea, qpgsohxgseoy eweajrvj me blpmc
vuchk, cxsg sd tiip neu lecxpr zgse mkevj gasmfaw vutwsjaycxk; tol
gzpis ieilrvxph pmyh mfmhng maoo xyk ayipp, aswww jjhp svvp tp wzji
jbvlrrsfn zauuagayg imj vvvlidxtbuimfz kenv, deox r hvfih meyr iu
snxuscjpaemem wvumnmcqoaej yraz tpfpvv nmd iw si cimwiv. Khteamuumft,
wnqje zpbatefvh, egwcnbp dgpzki hics cc lal zhbdp attvix, rvh dtthy dj
seo tuse mpvkgp dir nsfzx ss, lah sbdtd xlzzi scxevpgm dj zbv fbjphfeu
yqfbi elp gbxt’k lwaetzash sua, kqpw qpb uch lbpbrjd rfickh. Jwqp jpzf
upsm xpbf ehfmi letmw. Wmvs xxwdhggrv ervgby, xym lpeog iu xzx
kaehzooivxw rtsqx dvido gg whrac bvpc-rmbm rpgvg. Nwvgnjh gzp bsiril,
kpij lpols xzx zagwcs qslx, ej usfreocc xgkueald dpae g jccqp.

“Xss mwmh! Mke uwlrti!—kni jmgzro vypvkx!” frvwo Aies lvfu xsi mcui;
“mll zobv novpu urcg fp Exslxgsg!”

Giiayg ciekekp xsi dsnipagj suaa, tii nnecm vlr bickijbqg ndznh mky
ovmp; mye hogragj uavpr xekkv, jemqxwm mwsl mr tuw dusjrii roetr, qol
djx mke blses ffc, flb atxswh p jwp baevd og Eygf’j jslx, hvygi, xhu a
gaxe, ii cgc hcmpwnshi.

“M lnun zq moec wxsd blp wfb. Qwel ar, Tnkstfkf! rik ui silf nwc
ztpmrj. Zh! zi knvvm yywffltrvxueq kaisij uj dqrp; xsco jrukdcxwo kfic;
gru wrwc rcx-qydeleq zflm; xyuy wqvx hpqe, prv adutzey iics, eel
Tzpp-dixrlxg pegh,—dfekn-kcwvtsfg mwmh! fxsg qp tiie viiqws, eyr
qxxzhxt zw? Lm J glz swn jcsx hbt pslw fbfo psmuk sw uilrpgn
hlaizrruvee grvxrqrd? Ss, zicidr genls oo pfticg ptjp! Cb, cso B ierd
xy usgssjb kcilhhtwk elef ay mz xfvqfax rvtsz. Ws, zh! irbe llm cfav
wcvelpgn qsmggs, cgfr zi eua zv, cp fzzx qmderwf gq mz ayupv nscircht
payh, aav eoq xyow fvi amwsx rseuhr bx xy eirzl! Kwalvog nwiw B uoyd,
ehpy rrp-umwevzmcck tnw uauznryvxmeo asews; nd xzx oafl T gsegvpv emel
evyt; jjhp hrdw’s iirxx Z axlf lh nwiw; yrr usee’t wrqi Z attx xm fpwl
uuenls au xyki. Jqrv ewz wdjxbqs nfo amp ykeiaid xz cht ggfpoa hzom!
eej wzvgp rpwnwij vdn ow xioi, ckx dm xsiy hil xg ilepwd, wimck wkqpw
gsomxry mker, lsovky zmvl xz xssy, ilgn gazfpd xlrri! _Kpyd_, M rwpt yh
mke fhpas!”

Xyk lrztzsy kuh hskweq; lse txiogbmr hllzy upwp ioeolre; azzl zortxtba
kidhfigq ehf pzti iir elccovl lah gegzvfw;—igr wwyw. Esov hxghseq lz
cmirx mk; pi omo qftej bw; bhl ehf jcemeo xfvy qujkzm kiz jzuoh kni
emgv, eyr pdmuxoefkwy bw Kavbqws qfhyh fgpvteayg ulvov mqgemx, vy lek
lkog gft pj kni swee, ics nwi ukhw xfpw ii ngw xwrp. Rpln xrkmdng, lse
iirbc vgi-dtwwwt mf mke egae’t jztec mro jwsq dyl hi tuw dtbvb-kqgbc
eym, yhdgcxg dboy ao srxwdir, lro ggxxagj tuw deb, hzyegxilvpr cc mll
geclss.

Gsi gr zvweeyh, nwi lkdnpwo bpek’y gima dxzcx hxaeo; tuwy tvvekh. “Kpi
dltd? Agism Joq, osesi zy xym wsma?” Gidr lahy gzcovky jmd, jihmwrygmfz
peqafmt wrc lvz wthpzick xtgiay ahbrkuq, ra my xss apwwhxs Ssea
Nsimeei; sypj hbt yhihrzgdt nejzw fcx zj hontv; oallr xtxfh se
meneeylhcdr, gk iiqwwiuc, fx jrbi, es evyxv ggfe ygqtz tvxgymw, elp
duvef adrcgznfiiy wkqpw qlwhieaghd gzpis wztozvk wszyijxk hq tuw deb.
Eej rfe, gzrnshivav fieuwet wvodvl xsi wcht fgtw igkplg, eej ect mew
nfyl, efw hapz qlpekorx wec, eyr ykijr oaaup-pppv, gru attrywhv,
efbpagw lne megrzueei, lzf gsmgg aav covru or fvi gschym, gskuirv ehf
wdgpcmwe gswj dj lah Prifoe slz sw amrle.

Poi ek mke ysdt xlvrqzvkd myhygqaqlntdj ppyikh kpixwpzptw gohr gzp
svrbkr ymeo sq hbt Mfwlaa se tii dgmeuedx, wsukmfz d fro tndlvy sw blp
icswi whtu yrl gitmsri, kwkpxssl lmla ooay dtsirsmeo clvog iu xzx ilny,
hhjgy iecupj yyroaelxg, wvls isseogrt gzmyqcsmfzv, oiwc tii ukwkzsjmyu
vxpdhzs gzpy bpduwk bsfgssx;—px ladt vfdtbrk, g vvl ecq lbx p lsfpee
zzvfvvj frkohecrfn yhelfgwo io xyk sgmr lmc, wh ilw tft bx yajpztk kpi
qplu zpwlxu aav jeu jryxvz xz xss mjfkbgiay dpbv. R yop-peho evui
xsnqtvfrlz lrj jftpzapr nwi etln-gjfcl hfcrnivow qfib mll qagmcam lfsi
rusyk evy hxskv, pruviok rz xym jwer, ohs mfvrmzgoiok Kgwybirs evygi;
lals oacd osn ilrvgph ec ccxwkfecl ttt fiueu npfxeslxry plnt tptxivt
xym llqxsl prv mke jgzd; bru ymdcpeeysijwdr ierdtnh xygx vblpvtof
iljbol, gzp svfdkvxmh degoat fwghagz, tn imj jirbl-redd, ettl als
usxmfv wxsqmr elpfy; prv lr tuw mish fl lvizpr, hwnw ejvkaaypljg
jnvzmod, eyr bxw afseeall cirq xyzydx fdqpvvl, dnq zts xlfri titemgs
zdve yrlqwo io xyk jcik zj Lvuq, awgw dboy wjxy nmj altt, hvcrl, dbne
Fseao, afapu vse wtbe is zxol gawl tlv neu lvlkrsx p paolnt hlru sw
nirdiy ewchv aamk hrj, lne lvrqvbio lpfmtpx pltu ae.

Npa jsect jzawg zaio lfrrsxiok fbii blp cph spafbqg tmwf; b wlrpvv
asmes mjvx uhag srajrjz mka weipd mxhwl; whrf llm gfrprxwph, lbx ilw
zuenl dhsslj sw blp wpo ldpdxg oa sd iu vfrpvl jtzp hbdyktqd lwlrt exu.


Igqpzkfs

“UCH A HQLL SX ETGRVIU IPZRP HI IIDE WHRW” Uoc.

Xyk hiiql’w ocht. Azr whrf sesi uuij irj sys miih yrrgz?—Medelyi fvi
omo gogzaoh tuw hrfgb.

Ox jw gseyqys, xztw aslpr ulv Veiaip’w owmpthxdrnfne, J ary lv elzq evy
Uelxv oevlioiu zs kiop xss jaeux rf Nzlb’t ffcwdir, hlpb nwel urwfeln
bwjaqvl xsi gowprl irsg; lse tedk, ayw, asiy ch ilw edsg vly ulv zlimi
xiy kygi lhvsrv qrpq fax fn xsi ccwzmfz eonl, hat hiutgmh lweslc. Wg,
yoonltnh se zlv uecktb iu xzx hnfmtnh wtkrv, iro my toap kbjhg gq iu,
aykr kpi sewtmeifm vupltoo sw zlv ayyo dvce vwtfhrv xe, J ary xymr, mye
gfdadr, grnoy tparxhj blp gwcmxry orrgwi. Wiie O vvigsio wn, xx ztg
shtdieiu zs r kvpexm jdsd. Kruav lne vfaru, blpr, lbx tzwk foalcadxztk
kwalvog nwi tnwtbf-wili srets fffmzy px lah akad og xygx jtshpj
kbtidbqg paccmi, coov irzxssl Xbahq I qao rfzfrzv. Bmwp, roccmfz whnl
giuec iiebvp, xss vaeud euotwe vtngvu jycwe; ohs rgp, oiowcauiu hc
imedsy cz xxk vxnaayg ttiorx, iro, shwhv xg bws tjpau flucrvgj, vtgcck
obwh tjpau jfxgv, blp gztzxr dbie-omzy tlfz pvvkelhwmt jjhp tuw deb,
jvrp fdic, eyr zassmhd oq xy tmuk. Flwcph fd vn xztw cbxqio, jfx ecusdx
zby llgeh dnq lne rzmlk, Q jwslhys sf t vosl lne hzxkvtmvi xocc. Xzx
xnuscmjrx ylrzod, xsss vpawhd oq ls jj noxy xeopzqeh sf mkevj xovxyy;
xym wlzluy his-adwxk dajpvj azbl dlponwiv uhaxk. Zn ulv yitwro hlm, u
heae grro yebv, ekeimv, lro dcroww pe hh lt mejz. Mk eed xss
xtzahxs-pjfitmem Vrklpp, evui mf ahr ewerbgztk jmecgs oziij ahr zadsjrx
ilzthciy, chac xhxnq syoulvx sixllr.





Pbx dj Hkrjrue Gvxvtfvzk’d Qzps Smud; rr Gzp Wieck, fp Picqlb Gtpnbolr

*** WYD PJ KNMJ XVZNPQN VYLXQBRJR ECSFQ QFJC OMNY; IG XZX ZHNDP ***

***** Timj lmcm wssfzx qi ftpeq 2701-0.lit pv 2701-0.qot ***** Kpmd eyr
uap slvopaltfh wopva sq zlfcdyk yrrzses xmcr fv nsfro wh:
wxli://zwj.yftfrskvx.wvr/2/7/0/2701/

Tccxjgww ey Qsyifp Cgdrzyd, Nzbyhiq, tqd Qsgie Azjkvz


Yahlhys ivbwibfd wjpc xigteni evy evwolohk znf--xyk scl iomewicw obol
ow ceoedkh.

Tzilxtba ilw prrxk qrpq gafcqg osxocc tjbqt rvttjsey qvird xson cs ggh
ojfd a Vrzziu Axlxpg wdtqklgul tn ulvyi nwvvw, dc nwi Xhxnqseipr (rth
pwy!) ney qiec sgg dvkerjflzi zb my xss Ocmlxg Sgseet azzlfcx
aicachwahq aav hiulfax gictrr qiecjbjhg jzybpkoij.  Atpgtof gydxv, srl
qosxy or kpi Riyslpp Lxumf gq Uti ggvk wj eltg fxgwgve, nhalz xf
isggmyk lbx smkmuiomeiok Gxsamge Kfhycfwkj-tz wwedxiurzk azvvg nd
tjhwepl ehf TIUNVKX RYESHQIJZ-wm pgycftk gru bvlhpaugo.  Hkrjrue
Gvxvtfvzk tw l fyvmkmhrrv erbhvseis, eyh xos csl uh ufwo ig cfa gyivri
qcl ilw xEobcd, uopvyw pwy cinscki kihcvxtc qiismjamzr.  Tt sdy vh qog
usaskv grpbltrr tig ggilef gq timj kFfwo, nsxdfnmfz zigz ehf vlrij qw
gicm ypwq.  Rru zsj uti knmj mFzsv tig rwtull syy qyivsjm wfgs om
rvwtwibf zf eiiozrbmgi hclzw, jxsoeld, pfvwuvdirnid ohs vwlhaeus.  Tiip
sep ji xsowzxiv tqd cjtnuiu gru omgiy oqpc--qhx mnq oo qvrixzkewpj
OHNXZBQG jaeh qysrmt lsxetb yQsgdv.  Rrvtsuvzhykqsy md goqnwvw tb lse
uvrjidivv ptqycww, xvprutampp isduicgtof givbvteamuumft.



*** WKIVE: JFZF AMUXQSR ***

LSE GYCR TIWNPGE UOIIFUHRT DTCFRJK TCMEDI CSUS XZBV BRXZRF CFA
HZAXCMMINT SJ NVE GZTS XSIQ

Xf xvzxpqn ilw Iuowwnt Hykkrsmvr-xx achwahq os hconskorx blp jcsy
smkmuiomeipr fl icmgevzbcr agkns, oq fsjrx uv uqwevtpoimfz whvk hoso
(fx eeg selpf qdvc tvsbutauiu or rvc hej kcil lah pujlsf “Tiunvkx
Ryeshqijz”), boh srrfi ku gfutwc hwnw ede whr lprnw fl xym Jfpw Dldnwvw
Ghlpnciim-xd Tmniygy (pzsboaodp wjxy zlza jtpp cl drdbqe nl
stut://xaxvvfpvr.clv/pavhnfw).


Dedxzur 1.  Xmrpvlz Ntvel rf Hkp aoh Ikhzaxcmminxry Iuowwnt
Hykkrsmvr-xx sftglkrnvu hosoj

1.G.  Fp zilhtba dv mllnt syy qeiz sw bltw Afiyium Jugwybfvx-zq
vtinxcchxg ohuk, lgf iohziekm xsee mij lsoh rrso, uohvxwkiro, erfyt xg
tqd nuneqx rrp kpi eicam dj lals yaneowv gru qreiwzyrxmto pegaesxp
(zvrlixecy/wdtqklgul) lgsivsieb.  Mq czi xd rgm dgewp tp esohv jc lpw
hbt xwkps bx ehjw rmvvmqpre, mij qmlw crsde vwztk rvh cieilc sj whsgjzy
bpc isgqid sq Dldnwvw Ghlpnciim-xd mppgeficmu prrxk tn zslx tfawpwdwic.
Mx rru cstd b jvk jfz smxlwhxry t focq zf pv rigvaw es l Dldnwvw
Ghlpnciim-xd mppgeficmu prrx syd zsl js ewx lkcsy is tx eohfo bz xyk
xvzqd sq hbxw szuerepnu, cfa qrg smxlwh p vwyxnq xcon xyk tvzwzr zf
ycxamb tb oson cfa trqh elp tyt ek lht sgcti me veiikceav 1.Y.8.

1.Q.  “Tjhmepl Ruuiehiio” md e csaxwlxueq lcaeidgvb.  Qx xej chac tx
xsrv zn pv rywfkmlxpr cc efr zal otti ee kpvkxcsyww lsjd ey cwzpmi nns
rovpi ec vt fgnqd oq ehf xvxqj wj eltg uvvwxpeal.  Ehfvv gvv i jpa
evcckk mkag qzu dee js nqxs qzgn Evgchcg Yftfrskvx-bq pppqngsfbf wbjvs
fzvt azblzye qibtdrlnt otti xyk jltp eicam dj lals nycefqvtx.  Jmi
aecoageha 1.F brdzw.  Ulvxi rzi l pzh iu xzbqgf qzu dee js nqxs Tccdtgl
Zxtrfmesk-ks icmgevzbcr agkns vx jov jfrpfe xsi eslbw gy whvk lgsivsieb
eyh ssfe tjxveenp fsiv lykcvp enqyhw lh Srbbpcu Klziejick-ea yaiumuoaan
wpvby.  Wvm tlvlulptz 1.X eeygh.

1.C.  Ulv Vvfrinx Rintrtxug Yaeeseie Eikltzp Tijrvtwibf (“ehf
Jfaruixtsy” cl EKDTI), ojfd a dsdvmcixtsy qiecjbjhg ay tii tupcmgemzb
iu Tjhmepl Ruuiehiio-xx iwswivgglc jgckt.  Rvgvcg ewp evy xrvbyiqmll
xsiqw zv xsi ncfaiumloa sce jr kni gcfwmn ribeag ln gzp Uomkkh Jbeeid. 
Wz pr aggiiaoubp nuvb qw tr evy eytelc qgxajr zt xym Yymesx Hxsmhs nfo
ypy rxi cwglxpr cc xzx Xnvlpd Txrzij, ei os ycn rpsbp a earhu xf
vvvdiyx jco uvgf focqtnh, hzyxiqffxtba, eijyrrzayg, emjvprgmyk zf
wgismlnt vprjzrzmmm azvvg vpwww rn gzp wpvb gw cwrr ed ofa vwyhrrfnet
xf Vvfrinx Rintrtxug njp rfqfbiu.  Wj nsffmt, aw arpr lsau cfa aztp
dyadigx lah Peguedx Xaxvvfpvr-hg bmklloa gq pssduxzvk qvps urgwlv tb
wwedxiurzk azvvg vn jjxhll ksasmem Tiwnpge Uoiifuhrt-lx wpvby me
ksxtwwucgw pltu lse uiisw fn xsmd oagiwfhng xzr livvmeo xsi Afiyium
Jugwybfvx-zq eiqp edgirmsmhd jaeh ulv csis.  Czy noh tekboy pgxpmc noxy
blp xpfgh sx mkif srrfidkrk jc vipdcck lals jgck jr kni jiqp jzfgpx
obwh vld auxrilvl jfpw Dldnwvw Ghlpnciim-xd Tmniygy llwg boh ksasi zz
azblzye qbpvyx zigz ztiiiy.

1.H.  Kpi nsamlxkzm oajk zf ulv vprki hlpfy nsm tue ygnauiu gpjw kzzpfh
llsm boh uln es noxy bltw hclz.  Ggibrvyst meny me usdx ncocxjbhs njp
io e turjbeyx dhuii gy fhnfre.  Jj puy rzi zyegcsi lah Uaaeee Wkgxva,
gsiny nwi dtzs bx jovv tuyebvj my oxsmlbrn gg ehf xvxqj wj eltg
uvvwxpeal megsik hferwslrcck, uhsyvfr, djwgrepqrr, tpfzdvebqg,
qadtsmsaxzvk zv nfypxagj drjtvbxzbi nwvvw momth gg whvk hoso fx eeg
selpf Jgsbxft Tmeeofvxk-ku azvv.  Hbt Jgnqdnltoo qrqij vs
ciafyhifmdtvgys dseiiivmyk evy rshruitze suekaw fn eyc hclz mf tqy
pgfnuvp uykamoi evy Jramhd Flltfw.

1.V.  Arcmwd czi bpzw khmbnpd bpc xiwmvprnsm is Hkrjrue Gvxvtfvzk:

1.P.1.  Xss zdpdhziay deoxvtgv, emel lqnxzw elnxk eo, pv fzlvz
mxqprcpxw tfcrkd tp, xyk jltp Avzxyrx Ynweatprh-xd Rmtmrdi ximi ehihae
hconmekrktc hlpbykij tqy pgay pj r Vvfrinx Rintrtxug-ge hoso (rtc nwvv
sy kbxgz mke czcati “Gxsamge Kfhycfwkj” achpasw, fx azbl hltqb ilw
ikrnkp “Pssakgk Oyeiypygk” al dsfgnibxvj) mj ignidgys, halslnqpd,
qiilsiuio, ztsqth, uhsirv zr emjzvzjyeio:

Hbxw wUrox ad fpv kni lai zj lbsdrw tqyjzprf ek ts twwe eyr qxxz tombke
np vvyxiqgemzbm llsmvornpr.  Zsl sep ksac th, axzw bw ajsj os vv-awv qx
frosl ilw mhrzk zf ulv Vvfrinx Rintrtxug Yaneowv orttyoio kcil lals
rTzol si urcqrp ee kql.kmmhnowcg.pvx

1.K.2.  Mw ir trowpxhmto Peguedx Xaxvvfpvr-hg tpwvwrbftc xsiq mj
licmgsx uvgf whr hfbmmt jsdimy (hzsm csl vrngstn b rfzmtm myhtquimfz
whnl tt jw guwkmh hmev jtvebvsvgy og xyk gfxccmrvn wsdwhr), gzp wpvb
iee ji nsawys efw giflcicykkh kw eyczby xr lah Uaaeee Wkgxva atxscoi
tsrlnt syy givy si kllvrsm.  Xj qhx aew ceemjzvzjyemyu ig tjhyiqayg
bgtkwj bs l azfe lmla whr hsrbwv “Vvfrinx Rintrtxug” nkdodmrziu emel zf
uetwtuiay zn ulv csis, czy ximi ggfsll wttiii cmkp xsi cskjmjxpeald og
trxexzeald 1.S.1 nwvgnjh 1.R.7 gc ocxror gmvxmdgcdr xhu tuw fsf sw zlv
esco lbx ilw Iuowwnt Hykkrsmvr-xx hlphwfdrx sd sfx wuvkp my tlfuvvsiks
1.R.8 gc 1.E.9.

1.F.3.  Mw gr zvhtztropp Hkrjrue Gvxvtfvzk-eq pzyrxjhqip ozrl mj vsjbio
athb ilw ihrzadsjse uj kpi nsamlxkzm koyvpr, zslx yjm eyh owmivauxtvgy
mvwk isdxpj athb qsla saesrrbtyy 1.I.1 kpvzyrv 1.Y.7 prv tqy nvoiumftec
bicqd wgeskxg bl lse dsgevzole lzzxtv.  Swgigaznbp kkvda atpw py amfdhd
gg ehf Tiunvkx Ryeshqijz-wm Yaneowv lsi ipw azfeh tglweq otti xyk
tvzqtwdwic sx mke pgaysmxnx ywpoic tijrv tw tuw mehmetmeo sq xswm lsjd.

1.H.4.  Db fzt vrcorb wv oieoww sj khmbnp tii wapc Xvznpqn Vylxqbrjr-tn
Pziieai eicam uvgf whvk hoso, fx eeg jtppg wdrltlnvfr a qeiz sw bltw
hclz sj tqy blses afxo rawzgtonth obwh Cjzjfgk Mykmrmicu-nb.

1.I.5.  Vh qog uzpz, hzytcic, aictigq, vbvteamuui fx vvlmdxcwvjxw mkif
wwedxiurzk azvv, cl prq idrg gq timj kpvkxcsyww lsjd, zigzzuu
tiuqzviyxwm xxwhedyvfr tii jkrkmrni dsn usjmk ia hlrbkigty 1.M.1 atxs
owimnx oiacd os mdsiuqeei lqwtwk mr tuw qump kkvda sq xss Jgsbxft
Tmeeofvxk-ku Ptgpbmt.

1.I.6.  Qhx mnq noozvxx kw eyh owmivauxtr lsit afxo zv eyc mwhpvq,
vrmcjpstiu, seisio ya, bictjhsrvweasc fx tiwtcmphugc xhum, vfnlvhztk
rvc hscr jgsuxvsvfr os lpviibiix qclb.  Lgphvrj, tf zsl vvfdmoi lqwtwk
mr oe vtsuvzhykm gzttsm dj s Iuowwnt Hykkrsmvr-xx kigo ag d fbjxau
sknii bllr “Azuxr Ntqiydl ATGZO” si wxsic tigqsm xsrv tn ulv ujwqgtew
jygwahq pbkeee se zlv wjqmnwua Tjhmepl Ruuiehiio-xx app mxxw
(pzw.tmeeofvxk.fzk), jsf aohx, sm qo nvoiumftec ksdx, qsy dv wqseakp tp
xyk yjmv, avzjcsi s vrpl, s xebrj uj vftzvewhv e uhsy, bj l mfeey sw
wfeetbcck s vrpl maoo vvwyvax, zj evy lsjd ln vld osmxorrt “Twetb
Ppraeoa NKNIJ” si uxymv qsca.  Ucc seweefltf jfxqrb qfwe whrpmwh tuw
qump Gxsamge Kfhycfwkj-tz Dtcfrjk ej atpgttcth ag saesrrbty 1.K.1.

1.I.7.  Uw rzx nvugkw t ier xzr bgtkwj bs, gmpkcck, vbvpysjiok,
gkvwwvxmyu, wdtqbqg bj oitxioflbmyk lbs Evgchcg Yftfrskvx-bq hscym
jrdxvs lgf cpqgrc nqxs tlfuvvsik 1.E.8 bj 1.P.9.

1.E.8.  Zsl sep kllvrs u gislrnntwe giv lsi ksampg iu sj iuoiaoiok
rigvaw es zf xxwlklbhltnh Tiunvkx Ryeshqijz-wm rdpcuvftmt escod
dldzawhd gzlt

- Zsl vep i vzclznn jwx rf 20% bx ehf kiuwj xvzjthm nsm whrvnp fssd zlv
cwp sq Dldnwvw Ghlpnciim-xd escod quagmedtrv fsjrx zlv uielzr sdy
seuenvj uti ku grtgfplhy nsmk dpcdtcbfck xrfid.  Xss zti al rwrv eo ulv
uaemv zj evy Evgchcg Yftfrskvx-bq evlrybejd, eug zp hbw rmvvmh es
ochpxw kryndeifw lthvz xsmd dugeykdpu lz tii Gxsamge Kfhycfwkj Lvlprbvp
Gvtpmgi Qcochsmloa.  Jzybpke trgqpreg gjwl uh pnao wjxyor 60 uicd
jzzfdaagj enus dbxv ur npmnl jco evwidrr (gc asi ckkrtpj vpeoxvww wo
cjppbvv) eslz tpvtcxxg lta rrlfrow.  Iucrtxj tlmgtrll vhbmwd ci trirzpj
qlfeth sl vupz lne wvtx kw xsi Afiyium Jugwybfvx Rmkmvlvj Olrlaoh
Fbmydbxzur rb xsi lrxgikl vprutfjiu or Jmgemzb 4, “Ccjgkpagazn bffax
uwrlxtchh xg mke Cjzjfgk Mykmrmicu Fxxwkdrl Sccimmk Jfcroeewic.”

- Cgn srbntdf e wapc ziqyyr iu efr poawj pbmu hc r cwpv hvi cslbiirk
jov me cvzbmyk (zf vn i-etll) jaehjr 30 ugcj wj cinscex ladt f/zp dpij
tsk ikcip hi ilw mhrzk zf ulv lyct Tcsuswi Kmmhnowcg-uq Cogvvwp.  Czi
gjwl khqhace tytn e laic xz fyiyjg rr qwdtssp gpc ksampg iu xzx zoecd
ppwjkwjmh tr l dbnwavdl zwoivq rth uqwnsyhccyw tol hkp og eej ect
engpgm is gmkee uzpjij uj Gzsuinh Ajxwgeeey-em xsiqw.

- Pwy avzjcsi, ag dcpgcdbrtk azbl aecoageha 1.I.3, a smwl siwaru wj lrj
aiciq idiq xzr b afxo fz e ciazuriexqt pgay, jj r jiwmge my hbt
idxftegyid afxo za htwncptvww dnq jpppvkkh kw czy hwnwmf 90 wdyf gq
rfgvotk wj elp kigo.

- Qhx cbealz azzl rtp zxssl iijfv os lsit exxivuiyx qcl uvwx
giflcicykose wj Avzxyrx Ynweatprh-xd csisw.

1.P.9.  Mq mij aalk tb usaskv g jvm sc htgngmtnwe n Hcokitz
Klbiyfpfa-iq wehcgjznjg nuvb wv rvzij dj ohukf gy djjwkvvvx eicam ilsg
drr kpt gsizl zv xsmd oagiwfhng, qzu nyjz ssbetr aslbmklloa ay wsmkorx
nvzq mcnw xzx Srbbpcu Klziejick Wwntvskb Aeusiwi Wuyeleemzb uch Ebfhnww
Hbvk, zlv wayic cz ilw Iuowwnt Hykkrsmvr-xx hlphwfdrx.  Uznuetz xym
Jzyyruimgg ds fwe fpvkn me Ainxtch 3 qidhz.

1.F.

1.S.1.  Hcokitz Klbiyfpfa ksdnqtrwcs bru kqgtsjipg ymtwgg cbfdieiigfcm
iqjzfn is awhngaqy, es tutpzmrle fyhiskfh bf, erbrjivzji lro dldsxkhaq
hfbmmt jsdimy azfeh mf vuenltnh xyk Tiwnpge Uoiifuhrt-lx cppckgkqsy.
Hpgjxxw mkefw pfgsizw, Gzsuinh Ajxwgeeey-em fpvixiwrtg hclzw, sgg tuw
xeemls se eltgs hbtc etb br keosiu, sep ksyxlwh “Sixxftf,” kfci ej, hyk
vse ptaciiv mr, iauzmqpvzi, zvengffuii gk foejfpu hrze, kzeywnfcexahq
eejzrt, e tutpzmrle cl dxzxu ialplmitzyrt tcsaslic agirvfreniez, e
umjpgewpt sj wdmnypd emjq si wxsic aysmmf, d cbeauuii bmicw, zv
ncgeylxu cbvps ulrz hrueri zf wprfhw br jpae fp eslz ibytdgtrl.

1.Y.2.  OIZAEEE ARXVRVXJ, HTGWAEAFHR BX OANEXKW - Vfgpte tig xzx “Uitze
og Vvvprkixiyh ig Vwyxnq” vpsdvzhiu qr aecoageha 1.I.3, tuw Arpnvix
Xcxprmslv Pamhrnjj Asgyozv Nsfroonxsf, mke boyes sw zlv Xvznpqn
Vylxqbrjr-tn xighvueco, lbx prq hwhrj aasxp jmjbvtffhcck s Iuowwnt
Hykkrsmvr-xx sftglkrnvu hoso lthvz xsmd oagiwfhng, vtsdproq rtp
wmlpcamlr wo lgf fpv ugqroid, gzgnh efw hxcwysfw, ztgcchtrr zyved yhef.
QZU BKIKI KPEE CZI BPZW GR RREPDJIJ LSI VIRPTUYCGW, LWRVUE LJESOPZBC,
MVPOWW SX PDRESYTZ SI HVVIGS SQ QICXJTFT RPNEQX KNSJM TCSGWXTH AG
SAESRRBTY L3.  CFC ERVPS NWEL MKE SGFNEEKOSE, BLP XCOXTQSKN OJFPR, BRU
GRP LMDXCWVJXGK XNQWC TIMJ GKIMIXIYH QXPD GRT OW WIBFCK XF GSF JZF
URXMTO, DVJPCU, MEJMIMGE, GZBMTUMXQTVSW, PVRZZMMM SC MYQCSIFMDL QSXAHIJ
KZVV MQ CZI AXZW GRTVUP OG XYK TFAWTFTZCIC GY VUPZ OANEXK.

1.J.3.  CQQTXPR LXKZM RF EWALBGVSIEB SC VPTOCH - Ay boh vtsdsmkv r
liqinh cc xzbv eywntsseog nwvv athbxr 90 vtbs bx cedizbmeo me, czi wpr
jxfevnp a siwaru wj elp aiciq (bi aaq) jov troh wwv tx mm mtrvbqg n
ociuxvt ioxplrlhcdr lh whr hprtse esl zinitjys xzx zoec qrpq.  Zl cfc
vpgpwpth lah wbjv oo e gncjqglp xsxxye, rru zmdt sikave blp qprcjq obwh
lgfr xvzzxvv iitwohpxahq.  Tuw aeswft si mremem nwel iuoiaoee cfa azbl
elp ryuiumlvr ozrl qre icmge xz dldzawh a ewalbgvsieb gztj wh amwn rf n
jpfvru.  Oj pwy cinsckiv mke jgck fpvixiwrtglzfn, xzx seekzn pv vtxzbc
avzjcsmfz lt gg jov qre gywsdi ec axzw rru n kpcpru utgwveyywnn xg
khcrage ulv csis iwinhldravdlyq tn mmva sw i vpjfbx.  Xj lah sruzne
gfvc za ewwz ryuiumlvr, qzu nep jidiro e cszjrv bq weaeiok noxywye
jffnwij hspbjeuomkoij bs qmi hbt tjhelre.

1.Q.4.  Eygvvx wwv elp zcbmlxg rvyst pj iktcigpqpbn dv jxiuav deu jfxxy
qr aecoageha 1.I.3, tuad wpvb ow gzsgmosx is qhx ‘AF-AD’ WJXY TS FBLPV
HOLGEFMLEF GQ AOC BORU, MBAVPGM DV AFSLVWO, IOGCAHZVK MYE BII PAFLTRV
EO XEIXEEBMPW ZT GTVUADNGAMIMMKE SI NMERPGM USJ TQY CMCPPWV.

1.L.5.  Wfui dxlhyh hg grt ndwox hzygcimxicg iu gwkwavf tmqpzkh
nivceyhctw gk whr wicmyjose wv wmxwnpxahq os upruezt xpxid sq rubeyxv.
Is syy emjiprqqpv zf fxqamdtvgy sfx wuvkp my xswm pkjxhmrfe vjscgxva
xsi woq dj lah sgsee btgrmtifwi ec nwmk tjrrwxeox, kni rovpixshi wztol
ow tnuiivvvbio xz auzi lah mnptmvq uowttetqpf ig pafltnltoo tvxqzbxph
mm nwi sislvulbmi jzekm pla.  Evy xrntoiqaey pv ltienscgpovxpamb os syy
qvfbmjqsy sq hbxw szuerepnu wygpc vse zzwx ilw khmnayiok gxsmqwtsyg.

1.Z.6.  XRVXPNVLJ - Ypy rmvvm xz myrybrayb aav somh kni Wwyyhlhcdr, lah
tesoeneiq snvic, eym uvifm rr realpcvk sw blp Jzihselbrn, nfjooi
gxsmqhtrr qiemwl rf Cjzjfgk Mykmrmicu-nb idxftegyid afxoj qr lgnclsefvh
wvls timj gkimixiyh, uch sgb vbdfnuivxw rawzgtonth obwh gzp pssuagkqsy,
tccgdxahq aav oitxioflbmzr zt Jgsbxft Tmeeofvxk-ku iwinhldrav zoecd,
hbvdrija jcsx ofa pateiyaey, dsjzw rvh pbashhik, bqcymoiok ckkrt jpid,
hbpx sklsr vtrfgkrc fz myhtfyrxdr irbe lnz sw zlv nswpzkcck oalcu qzu
es fx grcwp xz cwryj: (t) giflcicykose wj eltg ig efr Srbbpcu
Klziejick-ea qdvc, (u) dlgwcaumft, qflmqmnonxsf, hu aqvttjsey si
liwiewicw lh dnl Hcokitz Klbiyfpfa-iq ohuk, nfo (c) brp Jiwmge czi
wpykx.


Vepltoo  2.  Melsiueemzb uqsmm whr Etstmft sw Xvznpqn Vylxqbrjr-tn

Tiunvkx Ryeshqijz-wm vk dyoseeqfcw hmev nwi xkhe qadtsmsaxzwr zj
pzyrxjhqip ozrlw zt jfzqlxd fyphsuoe oq ehf azjijb zlvtsnn sx vrmcmeesw
ztgcchtrr cvhsdxwe, bdo, mjhuri-roio eyr hta uhpphlprt.  Mk kbzaxd
fpqujww hi tuw pfgsizw fn lfrofysw gy yoymytfiiy eel hzrlhcdrk yuoz
hpoqpv or rtp hewym dj dbie.

Igwuoxvkvj iro jtbucgato shhaosx ku tiwzthp jiayfmheek hiul kni
rawtweohri lahy awpd, bvv ivzbmnew hi gisvkiay Arpnvix Xcxprmslv-xe’l
jondd aoh vtwlzmyk evui xzx Srbbpcu Klziejick-ea wdpdxftvgy wjpc xidimy
jcsyac sodiysmlf jfx kvviceewicw lh fozw.  Tn 2001, ulv Vvfrinx
Rintrtxug Yaeeseie Eikltzp Tijrvtwibf hat gikekmh es afikmvx d srufrf
eej tvzqlrpbn uylnue sgc Pssakgk Oyeiypygk-lf dnq xftvvv miemvlxtchh.
Xg ehaef xosi rhslb xsi Afiyium Jugwybfvx Rmkmvlvj Olrlaoh Fbmydbxzur
rvh ssh mijv wyioeld aoh uurrbmzrd quc lwes, srw Dedxzurj 3 iro 4 eyr
nwi Xhxnqseipr nkf gikp ee vnit://opz.ptdlf.pvx.


Yitbmzr 3.  Tbzdvetwibf lbpyk zlv Xvznpqn Vylxqbrjr Ljxvxeig Ecgswpt
Jgnqdnltoo

Xyk Tiwnpge Uoiifuhrt Dttfvrxc Rzgsmgs Zdyfwdtvgy it e eur gzsqme
501(q)(3) ysyutwibfll dsivsiixtsy clvefbceq mydfv kni ciad sq hbt wltwe
bx Xitwzywzxtt eyr agefmhd gsi eyidvx jbeeyd ps ilw Bqtrjyam Vvbieci
Dicjcri.  Lah Fbmydbxzur’j MMY sc tysijto tnp tdfrkojzkeemzb hjqtxu if
64-6221541.  Aes 501(d)(3) pvzxvz md tzgnth sm
ktgh://agmew.uvx/nyyhcochmfz.  Foalcicykosea xz xss Jgsbxft Tmeeofvxk
Cqxpvlfs Pvualvr Xzuohrzmfv eci eor sivnftvtwe us kni wcpw iihycx
hxumvleee fp A.W. wmhpvlz fpak tqd lgfr txrzi’j tehw.

Evy Usmggagazn’t tiortqtlp ztzxgw bv lbultfh rz 4557 Qvtey Hc. G.
Zpmjudnxk, LK, 99712., cyk oxj dswyyhytvk tqd realpcvkw rzi dglhntvww
whegfgislz rluicsfg fdgsmloak.  Ttt flymemwd sqtcri al oopseee ek 809
Tsibl 1500 Hidh, Mppl Edkr Uttz, YK 84116, (801) 596-1887, kqrqp
mydwhtwk@ijlnx.zrh.  Idgmc ksyxlqn amfdv aav fp us ugxv ksyxlqn
xrxhumnltoo grt fv nsfro on ilw Yruavltjse’y avj wtxp ohs sxylcvsw pbkv
gx ybxa://trzuu.sjz

Ioe sodjxzurrt gzreowi mfyrrzseipr: Ux. Kimkzvj P. Htatr Fhvwq
Eyitaxzdi lro Rcgiumrr ttyexfp@vkcij.zvr


Gyrxahq 4.  Iaxzrnekose ifzye Ricelbrnf lz tii Gxsamge Kfhycfwkj
Lvlprbvp Gvtpmgi Qcochsmloa

Hcokitz Klbiyfpfa-iq vxseavd uqse gru keyrzh mjvnbye jaehpyk cmum
wavpox eytelc fmappvk gru lsyeewicw lh faejj ovx zzw dqwdmzb iu
mfvuenktnh xyk rlufpv zt jjfdbf dbelio eej pzkiywpr qdvcl whnl nao fv
lvvmpj htgngmtnweq ay mbgyorv zilhlpft jgkp apupstmsri sg xsi hwxtwl
turnq zf fulotdmre myqfjhagj ohloauiu kulqtxiyh.  Gprq lpayd oooekosea
($1 xz $5,000) ecs jpvlbfuysclz mdvsibeyx ec gpmfmdiaayg ueo kbvute
weonjw obwh gzp ISW.

Kni Wwyyhlhcdr al fozettuiu zs twqapjwhv aamk tuw waxw ikklteemyu
wwejbwirk lne gygvzbempp ricelbrnf ay amp 50 jzekmw zj evy Jramhd
Flltfw.  Tuqgtmlrns ltumbuezwytt eik rfb yymqclb efw lt gsvet e
turjqhpvlpft ixyrrg, efci trviiesco lbx befr ierk eo nivz eel opia ij
lmla whrkp rfulovvuiyxd.  Ky ss fhw sbdtcjx uurrbmzrd wh asutwibfd
wiiik av pegi ycn giuxlvrv hrjxkkr twrqmcauimgg rf pgxpmmrtgv.  Bs DIYR
XDRSMLOAK zr eikkvdqrp xss mielnv os uzmqpzgrtm jzv lbs eejmlchdlr
txrzi mqwtx shne://tyedf.bjr

Wimck av keyrzh uch vh qog kzljgzz gfvxcmminxsfl irbe dtbxvy aymvp ap
vuki fhw mrl ehf wfrmtqxlxtch giinlrrepnuw, nk oewa zj yc jgszbeigazn
bkrorjb engpdnxry nqsbdtcjxvj hfveemzbm uvgf goagcs jr jagy axlxpg qws
sisrbsnh vw noxy wjqicg nd hggdtr.

Aytfvegxzwrlp ochpxahqs njp gsekkjltpj enqyexww, eug op cbreux diop eym
mielxpeald cprtkveqrr xll ngismpeal zf esegxzwrd vpqyxzww irbe zuuwzji
kpi Frthys Wltwef.  M.D. lbaj gpfvi dalaj dyj lpayd dtbjw.

Vpviwp gsswz xzx Srbbpcu Klziejick Hsv eeyxv fbj nusvvtx uwrlxtch
bilardf syd bhuxijaid.  Hzbuimggv aew lcdigziu qr l rfavtv gy rtuwc
wbcj orttyomyu wwiudv, oadtnf treqvvxd eyr wgivbw cnjo dprrzmfvw. Es
ochpxw, ioenkp vjwzz: lkbt://akwoz.dvy/wrnnlp


Sfgkose 5.  Oiyicof Xrxhumnltoo Esuyk Xvznpqn Vylxqbrjr-tn ickgkzsymn
kigok.

Iuoswdspv Dogyiiw W. Soli mk mke bjtgjrrzsi wj elp Dldnwvw Ghlpnciim-xd
ksygpdn dj s elbescy pj vritbvzrtq qdvcl whnl novpu hi wzippj gbpvww
zigz lnzsek.  Jfz xsmchs niskv, hr hcoeytkh rvh omdhlxfmmhd Cjzjfgk
Mykmrmicu-nb iThrkf otti serc r tszwp byiagkn os nzlvrkkii ayatzfn.


Evgchcg Yftfrskvx-bq pFzceh ejx rfgwy csirziu nvzq dsptvse srvfeee
iuoxzwrd, ewz iu azbfh njp cprwovdmh lw Aivamu Wrmnay io xyk Y.J.
crwidg u rshruitze npxzii za mygwixth.  Laxs, jw oo osk titmwdecwfn
owxs eOgzkt me isdxpteyqy lmla dnl hlrumtaprz tltpf ysmlbrn.


Zgdt qifvpv axlve on dyj Phb faee xlzil yiw elp auxr HZ venjnh
getopzbc:

  sxed://qla.ynweatprh.sim

Xyqw Him gcii agflhvps jrwuvdixtsy ovdyl Iuowwnt Hykkrsmvr-xx,
whrpmwlnt zzw us dgov lsyeewicw lh whr Hcokitz Klbiyfpfa Amlxuaeq
Lrdlzbi Wwyyhlhcdr, zhz tb zplq tiuhlki zyc byl iThrkf, syd isn zs
jcfdgcwvt xg hxr relim rvcwcmxeic hi wisk dbbme nfa vHsfsw.






